Vol. I.
LEGISLATURE of the UNITED STATES
House of Representatives,
Friday, Feb. 3.
IN committee of the whole, on the Cod fiflier\
bill—Mr. W. Smith in the chair —The fidl
lection read as follows :
" Be it enaCted, See. That the bounty no v.
allowed on the exportation of dried fiih of the filh
eries of rhe United States, (ball ceaie on all
t?(h exported after the tenth dsy of June next;
and in lieu thereof, and for t f ie mere immcdiati
encouragement of the said fifheries, there hial
be afterwards paid, on the last day of December
annually, to the owner of every veOel, or hi
agent, by the collector of the diltriCt where fuci
' vefiel may belong, that Ihall be qualified agreea
bly to lavv, for carrying on the bank and othei
cod fifheries, and that ihall afiuilly have be*r
employed therein at lea, for the term of sou
months at lejft, of the fifting season next preced
ing (which season is accounted to be from th«
last day of Feb. to the last day of Nov. in ever;
vear) for each and every ton of such vefiel s bur
then, according to her admeasurement, as licenl
ed or enrolled, if of twenty tons and not exceed
ing thirty tons, one and a half dollars, and i
above 30 tons, two and a half dollars, of whicl
bounty, three eighth part fliall accrue and belom
to the owner of fuc'.i fifliing veiTd, and the othei
five eighths thereof shall be divided by him, h>i
agent, or lawful representative, to and among
jthe several filhermen who shall have been em
ployed in such veflel, during the fealon atoreta:d
pr a part thereof, as the cafe may be, in fuel
proportions as the fifli chev ihall respeCtively hav<
taken mav bear to the whole quantity of fi(h ta
ken on board luch veflel during such fealon :
Provided that the bounty, to be allowed andpaic
on any veflel tor one lealon, shall not exceed 17c
dollars."
Mr. Giles exprdTed some doubt refpe&ing tlx
principle of the bill j and for the purpose of col
lecting the sense of the committee on the lubjeCt
be thought the most effectual means would Oe j
jnotion to amend the billy by itriking out the
whole feCtion.
He accordingly made the motion, —obfervinc
at the fame time, that he could not positively al
fert, whether the reasons which determined hirr
against the principle of the bill, were well found.
or nipt'—that, in ro#rt?rs where ? lftCftl p; £-
terence is given, it is necefiary to accommodate ;
and he would be happy if his objections could be
removed.
The present seCtion of the hill (he continued'
appear* to contain a direCt bounty on occupation!
—and if that be its objeCt, it is the firit attemp
as yet made by this goverment to exercile luch
authority j and its constitutionality struck hin
in a doubtful point of \'u-w 5 far in no part o
the constitution could he, in express terms, find ;
power given to Congress to grant bounties on oc
cupations: the power is neither direCtly granted
nor (by any reasonable construCtion that he coul<
give) annexed to any other power fpecified in th<
constitution : it might perhaps be brought in un
der a mode of conftruClion already adopted b;
the houle, viz. that of " ways and ends $" b;
which any power whatever migiu be equally im
plied ; but he wiftied ever to fee some conncCtioi
between a Ipecified power, and the means adopt
ed for carrying it into execution.
There is a great difference between giving en
couragement, and granting a direCt bounty.—
Congrefshave a right to regulate commerce : am
any-advantage vheteby resulting to a particulai
occupation connected with commerce, come
♦vithrn that authority : but when a bounty 1
proposed to a particular employment or occupa
tion, this is stepping beyono the circle of com
TOcrce 3 and such a measure will affeCt the wholi
manufacturing and agricultural system. Jn ai
cases, the revenue, to be employed in this boun
ty, is drawn from all the sources of revenue 11
the United States, and confined to a particula
objeCt. He was averse to bounties in almolt eve
.ry Hi ape, as derogations from the common right
and he thought there would*be no great difficult;
in proving that a government is both unjust an'
opprefiive in establishing exclulive rights, mono
polies, &c. without some very fubltantial meri
in the persons to whom they are granted j altho
even in that cafe, the propriety of such grants i
Itill questionable.
Under a jtift and equal government, every indi
vidual is entitled to protection in the enjoymen
of the whole produCt of his labor, except fuel
portion of it as is necefl'ary to enable governmen
to protedt the reft 5 this is given only in consider
ation of the protection offered, in every bounty.
exclusive right, or monopoly, government vio
lates the stipulation on her pait : for, by luch j
regulation, the produCt of one man's labor is
transferred to the use and enjoyment of another :
the exercise of such a right on the part of govern
ment can be juftified upon no other principle,
than that the whole produCt of the labor of every
individual is the real property of gov?rnment, and
may be distributed among the several parts of the
community by governmental discretion ; such a
supposition would direCtly involve the idea, thai
every individual in the community is merely a
slave and bondman to government, who, altho'
f*e may labor is not to expeCt protection in the
produCt of his labor. An authority given to any
government to exercise such a principle, would
)ead to a complete fyltcm of tyranay.
By P. FR E N EA U : Publified Mondays and Thursdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
THURSDAY, February 9, 1792.
He entertained fewer dotibtf, refpefting the
principle, as it regards political economy. Al
occupations that stand in need of bounties, in
ilead of increafmp the real wealth ot a country,
rather tend to leflen it j the real wealth of every
country consisting in the active produdt of ufefu
labof employed in it : it is therefore bad polic;
to encourage any occupation, that would dimi
nifh instead of increasing the aggregate wealth o
rhe community t and if an occupation is realr
produdtive, and augments the general wealth
bounties are unneceflary to its lupport j for whe:
it reimburses the capital emplbyed, and yields ;
profit besides, it may be (aid to support itfelf : —
when it fails in these points, any forced advant
age, that is given to it by the government, onl
tends to decrease the wealth of the country.
The fubjc& however might (he observed) bi
considered in a more favorable point of view,—
and that is, whether rhe provifiou be efiential r<
the defence j)f the United States, and whethe
the bounties proposed in the bill were more thai
equivalent to the portion of defence that.wouh
be procured by them. The bill does not (in hi
opinion) contain that kind of encouragement
which is efiVntial to rhe national defence. Am
man, who takes a view of this country, mutt
:onvinced, that its real support rises from th<
.ind, and not from the sea : and the oppofit<
mistake must have arisen merely from a ierv:ll
miration of the conduct of Great-Britain: th<
inhabitants of this country heretofore though
favorably of her government, and the revolutior
lias not yet altered their former ideasrefpe&ing it
But the circumstances of the two countries will
an examination, be found widely different : Bri
:ain, lurrounded by the lea on every fide, find:
a navy neceflary to support her commerce 5 whil.i
America, pofleffed of an immense territory, anc
laving yet ample room to cultivate that territory
bas no occasion to contend by sea with any Eu
ropean power—her strength and her resources ar<
ill to be found within the United States ; anc
if /he but attends to her internal resources, th<
of national defence will be much better an
fvvered.
He next proceeded to eonfider whether tha
>ortion of the national defence which might b<
lerived from the filheries, would not be purcha
ed at too high a price. Although the apparen
ntention of the bill is only to convert the prefen
drawbacks into a bounty* yet the draw
>acks being allowed only to the actual exports
ion of the filh, and the bounty being granted or
:he tonnage of the fifhing veflels, there can b? Nt
rom value between the diawback and thi
bounty ; they have no neceliary relation to ead
jther j and the latter may exceed the former
dt the former exceed the latter—He had madi
a calculation, and upon the moil favorable prin
cipies, grounded on the reports of the lecretary o
the treasury and the fecretarv "1 itate.
Here he produced a calculation, tending rt
(hew, that the proposed bounty, on the tonnag'
of the filling veficls, would considerably excee<
the amount of the present drawbacks. From ;
comparison between the bounty, and the num
ber of sailors employed 5n the fifheries, he (hew
ed, what an expence each man would be to thi
United States ; and, after other remarks, obffrv
:d, that even Great-Britain, whose whole nation
al support and defence depends on her navy, ha<
found, that the men employed in the fifherie9
though so neceflary f.r that defence, cost her to<
much :—that America, whose confluence, as 1
nation, does not depend on a navy, ought t'
take a lefifon from the experience of Britain : —
that he did not with to enter into a competitor
with Britain and France, in supplying the differ
flit markets with fifh $ that, as those nations ar<
able to hold out greater encouragement to the'
fifliermen, than we can to ours, we would bi
such a competition, only exhault the treasury 0
tlie United States to no purpose : and upon thi;
principle alone, he thought there was some reaior
to doubt the policv of the measure proposed in th<
fe&ion under consideration, which therefore h<
hoped the committee would agree to strike out
unless his objections could be obviated.
Mr. Murray observed, that, in order to demon
strate the propriety of the measure, it would bt
incumbent on the friends of the bill, firft, tc
prove that the fifliery trade is in a state of decay :
that the stock employ ed in it does not yield thi
ordinary profits, so as to juftify the merchants ir
embarking their capital in this branch of trade ;
that there is a system of defence in contempia
tion, which the circumstances of the country
call for, and which this trade is calculated to fur
nilh ; that other branches of trade, which do noi
(land in need of encouragement, are not equally
capable of furnifliing leamen for the purpose ;
that this particular objedt so peculiarly claim;
the attention and encouragement of the Uniteu
States, as to leave far behind every confidei ation
of the manufacturing interest, the agricultural,
&c. All this he thought necelTary for gentlemen
to prove, and to shew some very strong neceflity
for encouraging one particular class o« : men, in
preference to all others.
Mr. Goodhue. It happens, that the fi/heriei
of the United Staces aie almost entirely confinec
to the liate of Mafiachufetts $ and they furniih a
cor.lklerable, a principal portion of,our expon
trade. As we are a part of the United States, the
United States in general are interested in the
profperitv of that branch of business, so far ai
iea(t as it contributes to tjae national defence :*■—
It furnifhes a copious nrfrfery of hardy sea-men,
ani offers a never-failing source of prote&ion tc
the com/nerce of the United States. It we en
gage in a war with any European power, those fea
nen will be excluded from their ordinary employ
ment, and must have rec >urfe to privateering.
During the late war with Britain, we annoyed the
"h --g y more in that line, than all others j and had
t not been for privateering, it would often have
been imr-.llible to keep t yet'ner our armies, who
frequently, in the hour of need, were supplied b\
the '>!i..ueers with ammunition an 4 cloathir.g, oi
wwi h they were wholly destitute. All that w;
ivifli to obtain by this bill, is that we may not be
burdened with duties. An opinion has been en
tertiined, that no drawbacks ought to be allowec
on the -e-exportation of articles imported frorr
foreign Countries : but if this opinion were to ob
ra'n in practice, and no drawback were to be ad
mitted, we mu(t confine our importations to ar
C'CifS for our own consumption.
The drawback, allowed by theexifting law, or
the exportation of fait fifh, was calculated to bt
:>nly equal to the duty beforehand paid on th'
quantity of fait used in curing the filh : but the
fi(hermen complain, that as the acl now stands
:hty are wholly excluded from any participation ir
he benefit, which centcrs entirely in the coffers o
the merchants the object of the present bill, i:
jnly to repay the fame money into the hands ol
hose p*rfons who are immediately concerned in
tatchincj the fi(h ; and there can no realonable ob.
e£ion be made to such a transfer of the drawback
is*(;.jvvnment will not lose a fmgle dollar by the
:han-e. The gentleman from Virginia [Mr.Giles j
alks of the unconstitutionality of granting boun
ties : but no bounty is required : —we only ask ii
mo the: mode, the usual drawback for the fait, ulcv.
sn the fifh : if we can make it appear that the
till does not contemplate any greater lums to bt
drawn from the treasury, than are already ailowed ;
t is to be hoped, that no further opposition wil
be made to the measure : and that this is really
the cafe, can be proved by documents from the
treasury office : —
Here he read a statement, and calculation, to
prove his aflertion j and to lhew, that the Unitec
States will probably pay one thouland dollars pei
rnrum less in the proposed bounties on the ton
nage «f the fifhing veflels, than they would in the
drawbacks on the exportation of the fifh.
TL /iflirrmen (he continued) # are now under nc
toncrout t and in corfequence of i.iis want of 2
proper restraint, they otten take whims into theii
heads* and quit the veflels during the fifhing sea
lon. To prevent the inconveniencies of this prac
tice the bill contemplates their exclusion from
the boundaty, unless they enter into such con
traftsand regulations, as may be found neeellarv
for the proper and fuccefsfulconducting of the bu
linefsj which, from our advantageous situation
would be entirely in our hands, if we did not meel
with such opposition and discouragement from fo
reign nations, whoft bounties to their own fifher
men, together with the dutie3 laid upon our fifh,
would* to persons, less advantageously fuuateei
than u5, amount almost to a total prohibition.
In the report from the Secretary of state, 2
drawback is contemplated of the duties on al
foreign articles, used by'the seamen employed ir
the fiftiing trade, such as coffee, rum, &c. &c.—
but we ask it, on the fait alone j nor is it asked as
a bounty, but merely as a transfer from the hanc
of the merchant to that of the fifherman.
Mr. White had no objection to give the trade i
proper degree of encouragement j but he did nol
rcliill the idea of granting bounties : —if any gen
tlemen would prepare an amendment, so as tt
make them drawbacks in fatt as weil as in words,
he would confe.nt to the measure.
Mr. Ames said that he liked the word 'bounty,
which he thought a proper one, —that the House
ought to adhere to the use of words, as let tied b)
practice s—and5 —and that it would be paying too greai
a deference to common opinion, to alter words toi
the fake of meeting the ideas of the people.
He could easily (he said) if it were necefiarv,
fliew, that the government poffetfes a conrtitution
al power to provide for the natiunal defence in the
way hinted at by the gentlemen who opposed the
bill j and has as good a right to establish a militia
on the water, as on land j and that the landed in
terest depends on such a mode of defence, for the
fafe transportation of their produce to its proper
market.
He was not ignorant, that the encouragement,
held out in the bill, had every where been repre
sented as a bounty :—that local interests were
said to be preferred to national ones j and that the
treasury would be drained, to the advantage of the
eastern states, and the disadvantage of all the reft
of the union :—fuppofing however that Congress
dqes not possess a right to provide for the Nation
al welfare, — supposing also that the measure an
der contemplation would promote the intertft o]
only a part of the nation, still it cannot be denied,
that the people have a right to keep their own mo
ney, which is all that is contended for.
The friends of the bill she said) justly enter
tain the greatest confidence in the tufficiency as
well as the simplicity of the grounds on which it
is founded. If the existing law be found inade
quate to the purposes for which it was intended,
;he fame power that originally enadted, poffefles
equal authority to alter and amend it. Every
person who is acquainted with the fifhery business,
must be sensible, that its defe&s are great: a
bounty is given, a drawback is allowed, on the
Numb. 30.
exportation of fifli : t'ns mwft have been intended
either to facilitate the taking of the fifli, or to
procure it a vent in foreign markets : when
cents are allowed on the exportation of a quintal
of fifh, it is the merchant, who receives a)) the ad
vantage 5 for before the nfh comes to him, it pas
ses through so many hand?, that the filherman's
share of the benefit is very fmail indeed ; the whole
>f the encouragement, or a very considerable part
>f it, most be loft to him, and thus the good inten
tions of government disappointed and this alone
3 a fuHicicnt reason for making an alteration in
he former law.
It is not required that the filhermen should
ic treated with greater indulgence than other
rlafTes of citizens : ail that is expetted is, that
they be n»t treated worse : they trust the United
states with their money, on condition of having
t repaid to'them on the exportation of their fifh,
et themselves re feive the whole of it. At present,
:hofe drawbacks prove a heavy expense to govern
nent, though but a very small part of them comes
o the filhermen—this is a bad fyflem, and loudly
rails for a reform. The bounty, as it is now
;iven, is very remote, and offers but a feeble en
rouragement ; it is likewise uncertain, as it is not
>oflible to afceftain what quantity of filh will be
taken.
in more iriftances than one, the House has
>een seriously warned of the evils attendant on
Irawbacks : the experience of other countries has
hown, that the drawbacks on a particular article
>ften swallow up the whole duty ! a great part of
he filh, said to be exported, will coll government
tonfiderable sums, without operating as a bounty
it all—that is to lay, that many frauds will be
tommitted : it is to be hoped, however, that the
jlbermen f ill not be faddied with the whole duty
jf the fait employed, without being allowed the
irawback when the fifh actually is exported.
H&re Mr. Ames quoted letters from refpetfable
•hara&ers in Marblehead, refpedling the quanti
ties of fajt used» and of fifh exported, fee. &c«
vhence he concluded, that the drawback, instead
>f proving an encouragement to the filhermen, ra
:her operates as a direst tax on their fifh : and
(when we are told that all nations are combining
:o crush our fifherier, ought we also to co-operate
vith them in opprefling the opprefled, and to de
stroy a valuable branch of fiihery, which, in time
)f peace, enriches us, and protects us In time of
iVar ?
The qjicfaon will be, whether, if the former
aw be a bad one, the pjaSKpc bill profiles - a" luf-
Ucient remedy. Tiie latter proposes the money,
to be paid by government, shall be allewed, or ra
ther repaid \o the filhermen, under a new contract s
the new contract will he more advantageous to
government, and the regulations, proposed for the
government of rhe filhermen, will tend to produce
a greater quantity of filh to an equal quantity of
tonnage* in this business, however, it is but
sftimate opposed to estimate, there being no cer
tain returns, by which to fix the quantum of cu
iy paid by the fifliermen, the quantity of their fifh
Exported, or the amount of their tonnage : but
evqn though the molt fatisfa&ory proofs cannot be
given, that government will never lose by the
change, this ought not to destroy the bill : for al
though a small quantity of fifh may be taken this
year, the next season may produce a larger 5 and
it is well known, that the quantity of fifh is every
year encreafing, in proportion to the tonnage.
It is a flattering fight, to observe that the quan
tity of fifh, taken by other nations, is less than we
take with fewer seamen and fewer tons of shipping :
this shews the superior /kill and industry of our
seamen, who are daily making a considerable pro
gress, in consequence of which, they now take
more fifh than formerly.
If, by the regulations in the bill, the quantity
of fifh be encreafed, the duties, paid to govern
ment, will also encreafe, although the bounty on
the vefifis will not encreafe in the fame propor
tion. To shew that the allowance proposed in the
bill, is not more than the veflels will be entitled
to, it is only necefTary to observe, that unless a
veflel takes a certain quantity of fifh in proportion
to her tonnage, the whole of the bounty will be
laved by government ; whereas, if she takes more,
the bounty is still to be the fame.
These are the principal fadts, on which the
defence of the bill is to reft : we do not under
take to fay that there will not be some years,
when the allowance may happen to exceed what is
now given. It is acknowledged, that in bad years,
government will have to pay more by the ton than
by the quintal j but we have only to make an
average of years, and to take care, that govern
ment shall, on the whole, give the filhermen no
more than what is their own. And here i t might
be remarked, that the expeditions of the filher
men are very modest ; and that there is perhaps
no class of men in the United State#, who have
greater claims to public munificence, or have
made less. While foreign nations were making
their regulations on both fides, and didlating both
to buyer and feller, our filhermen had a right to
expedt, that government would do something in
their favor ; and, at the formation of the present
government, few people expedted that so little
would be demanded.
He further observed, that government are not
going to give a single dollar of the public money j
but even if they did, they would be richly remu
nerated j—that the fifhery has struggled under in
numerable difficulties, from its very commence
ment that, although we be not in a condition
( See Ufl page.)Mil L A D E L P H I A,
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Monday, Feb. 6.
A meml>er from Maryland, John Franci
Mercer, elected in the room of William Pink
ney, who had resigned, appeared and took his feat
A petition Of James Jackson was presented t<
the House praying that the trial of the con
telled election of Anthony Wayne, a membe
returned from Georgia, which was assigned so
this day, may be postponed for twenty days
which was granted ; and that Monday the 2,-tl
infl. beafTigned for the trial.
The House on considering ths report of th<
committee relative to the petition of Gifforc
X)ally, resolved that said Dallv be allowed on(
dollai and an half per day for service as doo:
keeper, during the recess of Congress.
A petition was read, from John Lockman
praying relief for injuries fuflained while surge
on in the United States Hospital during thi
war—referred to the Secretary at War.
A petition of the tanners of the town o
Newark in New-Jersey was read, complaining
of grievances from the erection of mills so
grinding Lark for exportation, and praying re
lief—Ordered to lie oil the table.
The House ihen, in committee of the whole,
proceeded to consider the bill sent from thi
Senate on the Bank and other codfilheries
which, after feme debate, was resolved to
proceeded on again to morrow.
TuhsdAy,Feb. 7.
The petition of the tanners of the town o
Newark was reai a second lime and referred to •
feleft committee-,
A report was laid before the House from th<
Secretary of the Treasury, dating the amount o
the unfubfciibed debt of the United States
which was referred to a committee of the wholt
House on Monday next.
Mr. Benfon, from the committee appointed
reported a bill for apportioning representative:
amongst the p ople ot the several slates, accor
ding to the fir A enumeration ; and providing
forafecond enumeration, and for an apportion,
ment of representatives thereon, after March 3d
J797 —which was read a firtl time.
The House then, in committee of the whole,
rcfumed the confidcration of the filhery hill.
Conliderable debate took place on the m >tion
for finking out the full feftion of the hill,
which proposes bounties to fifhermen—onwhich
the quef'.ion being taken, it passed in the negative,
yeas 26, nays 31 ; so that the feftion was re
tained.
The committee then rose, reported progress,
and asked leave to fit again.
For the National Gazette.
j... .'. 3 on the \CISE LAW, so far as
it rcf 'he WcfUrn Country. Jy H. H.
BrACK-ENiUDGE, of PlUfburg.
I AM not one of those who have appeared
in committees on this fubjett in the west
ern country. Nevertheless rnv . objections
to the law, as locally unequal and oppres
sive, were not less strong than of those who
did appear. I confine myfelf to the local
reafoni which operate againfl the tax.
Firfl, That the want of export, by
realon of the obftruftion that exists to
the trade of the Mifiifippi makes it ne
cessary to convert our grain by diftillati
en into the article of whiskey ; and hence
more distillation, in perhaps a ten fold pro
portion, than according to wealth and num
bers, in any other part of the United States.
This circumstance is, of itfelf, fufficient to
juftify a suspension of the tax until the na
vigation of that river is recluded, with the
privilege of landing and /iorcage on the bank,
a right which is the natural appendant of the
water.
Secondly, To the import paid by that coun
try on teas, coffees, sugars, fait, dry goods,
&c. is added the expense of a distant carri
age, fix pence in every pound : of course,
there ought to be at least a scale of reducti
on in favour of the weltefn country.
Thirdly, The means of agriculture there,
are not at hand : the fait, the iron, chiefly
in the small towns ; the mill, the fmithery,
at adiftance : a rugged country ; bad roads ;
much timefpent by the farmer in providing
himfelfwith necessaries to carry on his hui
bandry. The daily labourer, the mechan
ics of every kind are few, and from that
scarcity, the price of work and utensils and
impleme its is high, and falls heavy on the
cultivator of the foil. His distillery is the
only means by which he can supply himfelf.
by barter, with what he wants. It is said
the consumer only pays ; but the distiller
in the firfl inflance pays money and receives
none. He receives dry goods from the
ltores, or the articles necefl'ary to his agri
cultural pursuits.
Fourthly, the country is truly a
country of distress and woe, fubjeft to all
the evils of the late war, the drain of rifle
men and light troops for the army on the sea
coast, the militia services by thole at home,
or oppreffton of the cottager in hiring a fub
ilituce to save his absence from a wife
and children wanting bread ; his insecurity
and watehings and removals from his tene
men'-jonalarmsj fir Ms expeditions in pur
"uk oi'the parties thsl had murdered in hi<
neighbourhood : of the late war, did I fay:
-hi* has been continued to him for a perioc
feveri years, since the remainder of thf
"ntinent has been at peace : a period c!
even years of a war more than the othei
>arts have felt, and with a foe of inhuman,
ry even worse than the troops of Great-
Britain when at the commencement of th;
onteft. they did not consider us entitled t<
he privileges of the laws of civilized war
are. Add to this, with refpeol to the foui
'enufylvania counties, that the unfettlec
late or property from disputed titles, ow
ngto the jarring claims of that ft ate am
Virginia, and adjustment on tlie laws o
joth. and to the uncertainty of legal title
nterlaceci with the doctrine of improve
nent, fanftioned by county court verditl
ind judgments, and various in the fupremi
:ourt decisions, every cafe'almoft being fu
generis, and dependant on its own circum
lances. Distributive jliftice and the sex
fences or uiits, has therefore been a he? - ,*'
jurthen on the greater part of these inhabi
tants.
I his is therefore no country from whenc
:o r aiie a revenue. It is yet at best but ;
nursery ; and from whence you ari
iiot to expert fruit. Take your apple
from your orchards, and let these yonrij
ti ees grow ; they will bear fruit in d'U'
time.
\es; but it is said, that the populatioi
n this country is unfavorable to the rone
•at interests of the midland and fea-coaf
'arts ; and therefore ought to be difcou
■aiied and opprefted. Adopt that principi.
ind I have no answer. . Bnt that principl
mght to have been avowed and know
>efore the settlement ; that men midit no
isve been betrayed into a purchase am
emigration. As it was a principle no
known or understood. it cannot withou
njuftice be now applied. But I fay it is th
:rue policy of the government of thef
fates to favour emigration and the fettle
nent of the western country —It may ren
ler less populous the midland parts, bu
:he numbers are not loft : they are withi
:he jurifdiftion of our government and th
population must be more rapid in propot
ion as between an older and a newer conn
The idea of a new and unoccupie
.erritory, has drawn and will draw thou
ands not from the bosom of our fettle
nents, but from the continent of Europe
:he kingdom of France especially, wh
■vchild never otherwise have thought o
nixing and fitting down with our more po
julated settlements. We have now a fnla.'
own. but may soon have a great city o
:his last polished people.
Those therefore who think and ast on th
:ontracted principles of cheeking emigrati
>n discover a contrasted mind, and were
i great emperor, they should never b
;rand vizirs or ministers of state to me.
im for filling up the whole canvas of th
United States territory, and for overcom
ng Indians, favouring settlement, andpuft
ng out a column of inhabitants as fpeedil
is poflible to take the flank of Canada ; an<
ecure the western Indians in amity befor>
:hey are made hostile by our rivals.
I consider the western country as th<
'iers etat, or third estate of the union, and
is necelfary to hold the balance in the in
terefts of the east and south parts. Ther<
is nothing, in my contemplation, will con
tribute more to the duration of our empin
than such a balance. It will also serve t(
counterbalance the weight of the mo iiet
interests and germ of aristocracy, in th<
richer capitals, by preserving a bed offim
plicity and true republicanism. In thi
point of view, every politician who wilhe
a long date to what we have acquired b 1
our wars and victories, will countenanci
these ideas.
I have been silent in the western country, no
willing to incur the suspicion of being a mover o
sedition, or to be so ; I state my opinions here
that they may come before the eyes of those whi
may give redress ; the representatives of th,
United States. The ultramontane inhabitants
are in but hewers ©f wood and drawers o
water, at this moment. So far from luxury thai
they are not above want. The great proportior
on the frontier, that, on alarms, are obliged* to de
sert their fields, and leave them uncultivated, feel
the distress of this in the want of food for them
selves or cattle. The more inland people are like
troops called constantly from the centre of the
camp to protect the front line. The colle&ing
revenue from this quarter ought not therefore to
be thought of so soon. Let the tax be suspended,
or a scale made proportioned to thefs circum
stances.
1 profefs, had I it in my power, and was an
swerable for the fuc ess of provision for the public
debt, I would adopt this policy ; because, with re
fpe<ft to these people, the thing is palpably so* un
equal and oppreflive that it cannot be borne. It
amounts to a prohibition of distillation altogether;
and opposition necessarily generated in one quarter
may Communicate to another, and take fkme
where there are not the fame strokes of the steel
originally to produce it. These thoughts I fub
i.it refpcc! !"'J ly to the Secretary of the Treafuryor
the representatives of the people, if an eye should
be cast on this paper.
I have just to add farther ; let peace be given
to the western country; let the use of the water®
to the ocean be established ; let them have a iit
!c time to breathe and recover loft, and feel vi
gor, Hid if they do not fubnu't to every demand ol
contribution to the revenue, I (hall be the fir ft
to bear teflimony against them in tjiteir country,
as I have done heretofore when I thought them'
wrong. But ! know the yeomanry are honest
though, fometim ft misled, and in due time that
country will afford both by trade and tax a sub
ftantial revenue to tbefe (late?, but oppreflion will
make the wife mad, and induce them it> refill
with intemperance what they ought to refill wit}
reason. Ihe western country js a glorious gar
den to cultivate, and the faireft Moffqmj'wil
bloom and the richefl fruit grow there for the be
nefit of this government. It will enable thefi
states to hold both Britain and Spain at bav, and
engage the mod reasonable treaties of commerce
left the ohe lole Canada, or the o'her the Florida!
and the South Mine 3. Your {Irength is here,
countrymen ; call this anchor to windward, and
you are fafe.
Philad. Feb. 7.
PHILADELPHIA.
February 9, 1792.
Authentic copy of a Utter from a gentleman of cha
racter and irformation in Cafe-Francois to hi.
correfpondcnt in this city, dated Cape-Francois;
Dec. 28.
SINCE I didmyfelf the lienor to write
you from hence, under date 4th current,
affair? have remained in pretty much the
fame state throughout the northern diftrifl
of this colony; I mean with refpeft to the
ravages of the insurgents. The :outhern
and western diftrifts have been obliged tc
take copious draughts from the cup of bit
terness. Should I attempt to recite the
melancholy accounts which have presented
themselves from day today during my resi
dence here, you might probably find the de
tail uninteresting, and it would certainly
be prolix. Permit me to acquaint you Am
ply, that since the terrible conflagration al
Port-au-Prince on the2iftult. M. Coutard
the governor of the western diilriA, anc
M. Jumeconrt, the second in command
have taken up their quarters with the peo
ple of colour, at their camp in the pariih o J
Croix-des-Bouquets. Those two gentle
men were of high military rank under th<
antient government, and have several hun
dred zohite adherents now with them. Tht
mulattoes, it is said. look up to M. Coutarc
as to their god, and all their manoeuvre 1
are directed by him. If he has the powei
of controuling the operations of that vin
dictive race, its fuccefies fliould be carriec
to his account; —and whatever plaufiblf
pretexts he might place on the debit fide
the balance would appear infinitely ag-ainf
him. The people of eolour assembled ai
Croix-des-Bouquets, lately sent a deputa
tion to the colonial assembly, and to the
commijfaires citii/s, to ft ate thsh- demands;'—
They not only insist on the exa<sV observance
of the concordat and subsequent treaty oi
peace, entered into fonu time since in the
western diftrifl, but also that all the guard
nationaux foldees of the colonie and the twe
regiments of Artoi ; and Normandy, /hall be
immediately sent to F: znre—And that eve
ry white man. be his occupation what it may
ivho is not in possession of h plantation o?
atlier effective property in the colony to tht
imount of shall depart the colon}
forthwith. You may naturally suppose
:h.at such extravagant demands will never
ie complied with. —Those mal-contents
lave not committed such general and in
lifcriminate ravages in the south and weft,
is the insurgent* have done on this lide the
fland ; but they have been guilty of much
nore bloodihed. They have disarmed the
vhites in almost every parish from St. Marc
outhward, Port-au-Prince excepted —
They have afterwards, in the mod cruel
nanner, murdered in cool blood great num
»ers of those whom they had thus rendered
lefencelefs. Their savage barbarity has
pared neither age nor sex" I heard a let
er read yesterday, which states, that at Le
)gane they have basely murdered sixty per
bns who were in the hospital. Other ac
:ounts of their treatment of matrons-, vir
tus, and infants, would make a Nero blu(h.
[s it possible that the French aristocrats can
)e the stimulators and abettors of all the
lorrid proceedings which have deluged this
;o!ony in blood, and brought it to the brink
if ruin, in the illusory hope of thereby ef
~efting a counter-revolution in France ?
Vlany circumstances go far to prove theal
irmative ; but for the honor of human na
:ure, and of a polilhed nation, I would fain
i?rfuade myfelf that these infernal tranfac
:ions are only the ebullitions of uncultiva
:ed spirits, which have made a sudden tran-
Ition from the extreme of ignorance and
lefpotic restraint, to certain mistaken ideas
of the rights of man, and that unbridled li
centiousness consequent thereto.
While new clouds appear to be envelo
ping the other parts of the colony, and
threaten a frelh inundation of misery, the
afpeft of the political hemisphere in this
quarter, appears more serene than for
months past. The chiefs of the brigands
here, have taken advantage of the general
amnesty recently proclaimed by les commijfa
ires civils from France, to make overtures to
the colonial assembly for causing their delu
ded followers to surrender their arms and
return to their duty —and for liberating the
vc kilts whom they now hold as prisoners. It
was on the Sth current, that two depute?
from the ififurgents presented themfelvei
at we bar of the aflembly, with the procla
mation in their hands, ;;n d a well written
letter from John Francois. No other an
swer was jrven, than for those eniifli.ries
to retire to their camp, and return at the
end of.eight days toxeceive the determina
tion of the a (Terribly'refpecting the propofi-
contained In-the letter. According!-'
on the 16th. the iame emiflaries returned,
wnen the president of the afiembly addrefTed
them in a firm tone to the following effect:
hat it was inconsistent with the dig
nity of the colonial aflembly, to treat with
slaves that whenever thev re
turned to their duty, all the -indulgence
should be fuewn them which could be ex
peered from the known clemency of their
proprietors, and consistent with the nature
n. ca.e ; but the makers and guardi
ans of the laws could not think of holding
ny intercotirfe with those who were a£tu
nlly inarms, contrary to all principles of
jiw and order." —He then ordered them
infrantly to retire. The next day a new
deputation from the brigands arrived with
a very fubmHßve address, proposing as a
proof of their sincere desire of returning to
.lieir duty, that they would immediately re
lease ail the whites whom they hold as pri
soners : they solicited a conference with
es commi/faires civils, in order to engage their
ntercefli jn with government.—This ap
plication was so favorably rece'ved, that on
"1 hurfday the 22d current, messieurs Uscom-
avils. attended by a strong escort of
patriotic cavalry, gave John Francois a ren
dezvous at the habitation called St. Michel,
near Petit Ance. on the fide of the bay op
posite to this city, that chief threw himfelf
311 his knees before the commiflaries, and
pegged that he might be admitted to take
advantage of the general amnesty. He
ike wife supplicated that the fame privi
lege might be extended to his wife, who
for some time part has befen confined in the
prison of this city. He promised that he
would catife his partizans to fend in the
whites, who were held as prisoners as soon
1 ; they could possibly be conveyed from the
different places where they were confined;
and that he would likewise cause all his fol
lowers to surrender their arms as expedi
tioufly as possible, and return to their duty
upon the plantations, to which they res
pectively belong. —Several white prisoners
have since been sent in. but I do not learn
that any arms have yet been Surrendered.
The aflembly remain firm in their refolu-
c '°n, not to hold any correspondence with
brigands, except on the baSe of uncon
ditional submission. On the iSth current,
the frigate La Fin;, arrived here in 33 da)'?
rrom Brest, with a detachment of the resi
lient of Provence on board—and brought
:he animating intelligence, that great, pre
parations were making in France to dispatch
I very reSpectable force in order to re-efta
plilh this valuable colony. Yesterday IVI.
de Blanchelande communicated to the pre
ident positive intelligence which he has re
vived, though the public do not know by
what route, that 18,, jo troops have aftual
y failed from France destined for this colo
iy. Their arrival here is ardently wiflied, &
■nomentarily expected. The brigands have
II ways had accurate intelligence of every
:liing that pafles in this city : nay, they mull
lave had lome secret friends and abettors in
.he legislative or administrative aflembliea
lere, since it has been proved that they have
>een Speedily acquainted with what has
>afr, even in a Jeer ct committee. —Thus, as they
.annot entertain a doubt of the formidable
'reparations that are making against them,
heir chiefs are apparentlyconvinced thatthey
annot extricate themselves or their delud
~d followers from that labyrinth of misery
nto which their crimes have driven them,
who arrogated to himfelf the title of
ting, now humbly Supplicates the clemency
>f those against whom he has been the prin
cipal instrument of committing every fpe
:ies of outrage which the mod depraved
magination could suggest. How far it
nay be politic to accord grace to him and
lis principal adherents, I will not pretend
:o fay : If to obtain a mitigation of deferv
;d punifhrnent, they should be induced to
lifcover the prime instigators and abettors
>f the revolt, wherein the fame John Fran
cis has acted so conspicuous a part, it might
>pen such a field of recrimination as would
;ive room for unquiet Spirits to marihal all
:he forces of ingenious malice in battle ar
•ay, so that by artful fkirmiflling, thev could
or a long time prevent the return of that
:oncord and reciprocal confidence which a
one canreftore thiscolonytoitsformerflou
•ifhmg state. On this consideration it may fce
jest, that the names of the original confpi- .
•ators should still remain concealed, and to
Iraw the veil of oblivion over all crimes
md misdemeanors that have been the off
pring of their nefarious machinations,
rhe alternative of total extirpation or un
:onditional submission, which is all that is
now left for the insurgents, seems to be a
guarantee for the continuance of that tran
quility which begins to dawn in the nor
thern diftrift. This is, however, a very
critical moment. Those who " are so far
advanced in crimes that it is more difficult
to return than to proceed," doubtless with
to put the finifhing stroke to the work ofdefinition, before the arrival of the ex
pected force from France ilia 11 blast their
Imlignant hopes forever.
Many are firmly persuaded that there are
emiflaries from the mal-contents now con
cealed in this city, who are determined, if
possible, to display the fame scene here
which was lately exhibited at Port-au-
Prince. Forfeveral days past reports have
been circulated, that a collection of com
bustibles wa« discovered in one place—pri
vate conversation refpefting the plan for
burning the city was overheard in another
—and fufpefted persons were arrested in a
third. I suppose it has been observed by
the principal guardians of the public fafety,
that the citizens are too apt to relax in their
vigilance where they do not apprehend im
mediate danger ; therefore, whether a re
port like the above is founded on fact, or
merely fabricated, it is good policy to give
an alarm now and then, to make people
more alert in their duty. —More evil is still
to be -ipprehended from the inveterate en
mity that exists between certain individuals
among the whites tkanfcfvcs, and from that
unparallelled degree of infnbordination
which pervades every department of go
vernment, than' from any thing that (laves
or the intermediate claf; can Operate.
Through the unhappy division of the whites,
the people of colour are absolute mailers in
all the country adjacent to Port-au-Prince,
and have long had the power of perpetra
ting infinite mifchief with impnnity. They
have uniformly declared, that if the ships ill
the rond fired on them, they would instant-
Iv set fire to the neighboring habitations.
To prevent this impending definition, M.
Crimouard. captain of the Boree "4, and
commandant on that station, had very pru
dently temporized in the expectation, that
such force would speedily arrive as would
give one party or the other a decided pre
ponderance—recent advices from that quar
ter Hate that on the 17th current, the in
ferior officers and crews of the Boree, and
a frigate which lay before Port-au-Prince,
commenced a cannonade upon a poll occu
pied bv the mulattoes, not only against the
advice, but contrary to the express com
mands of the commandant and other com
millioned off.cers. The mulattoes imme
diately proceeded to put their previous
threats in execution, and the superb habita
tions which were.fitjiated on the plains of
Port-au-Prince, now present to the enqui
ring eye but so many heaps of ruins '.—When
the latest accounts came away, on the iSth,
the flame? were perceived a far as the fight
could rea. h toward Leogane. A rumour
prevailed here yesterday, that the equipage
of the Roree have m: flacred M- Grimouard
their captain—l hope this intelligence is
prem»t"~. I earno; find ; y u.ie who
Knows how it came—all intercourse by
land between this and Port-au-Prince ha
ving been long cut off, we are dependent
upon the variable elements for our com
munications ; and at this season the winds
are generally unfavorable to a vefiel coming
from thence to this port; this accounts for
our not having received later advices from
that quarter than the foregoing.
It is exceedingly unfortunate for this
colony, that ever since the commencement
of the revolution, all confidence between
. the Wifbtive and executive bodies has been
annihilated. There is almost as much cool
ness Aibfifting between the present colonial
assembly and M. de Blanchelande, as there
formerly was between the assembly of St.
Marc and M. de Penier — As is asserted ref
pefting the natural so in the politicalfyfletn, it
is apparently true that there are bodies pqf
fefl of certain repulsive qualities which
cause them mutually to recede from each
other, to the great detriment of that order
and harmony which is so essential to general
fclicitv. do not fcrupie to aflert that
so many discordant particles have entered
into the composition of the present legifla
tive body of this colony, as mult accelerate
its diffolntion —'ome there are who pre
tend to such a superior degree of sagacity,
that they can perceive in the intrigues of
certain members of the colonial assembly,
the detestable source of all the evils which
have afflirted thi colony. Others pretend
that, a'- the fourteen pariflies of the wes
tern diflrift lately recalled all their depu
ties. the present assembly, where they con
tinue to fit. is not legally constituted. Not
to enter into the merits of this question,
one thing is evident even to a fuperlicial ob
server, like mvfelf; that is, the assembly
does not act as if it had great confidence in
its own abilities. Its debates are general
ly desultory, diffufe a;d indecisive" Mere
words, more than the efi'ence of things, seem
to occupy its attention. The discussion of
the question whether the affemblv (lionid
style itfelf qencraLc''' 1 or " colon/ale," lateiv
occupied it four days, notwithstanding the
fame important fub ; eft had been much agita
ted by the fame body at Leogane last fum
tner.
From observations similar to the forego
ing, many judicious men are of opinion that
the inhabitants of this co ony are not capa
ble of legislating for themselves, but that it
is necessary some superior, independent
power should decide ali their political con
troverfies. The friend of peace and good
order apparently place their ultimate hopes
xor the re-eflablifhment of the colony, up
cm the firmnefs and unanimity of the civi
comniiitaries and of the forces momentari
ly expelled here. If they ast in concer
for the general good without leaning tr
one party or the other, or listening to the
finilter suggestions of Pilch who would f>i
crifice the public welfare to their private
interest or revenge, tranquility may speedi
ly be restored, and the wealth and happi
ness of this urn ue colony may, like the phoe
nix, be resuscitated from its own afhe:
With encrealing brilliance.
A letter received from Charleflon, via. N,
York, of Jan. 19, mentions that port beinf
crouded with fliipsfrom England,
the United States, so as to be obliged to lie fom
or five a-breaft at the wharves, to receive or
board their cargoes. The letter adds, that i
gives pleasure to every fmcere patriot to fee ma
ny excellent {hips carrying the American flag
arriving daily from the northward into Ca
rolina, to waft their produce to the ports of th<
eastern world.
We are desired to contradict a paragrapt
in the National Gazette, of January 30.
under the Philadelphia head, dating that i
contrast had been gaffed at Cape
on the 16th of December for a large quan
tity of flour from this continent ; the latef
letters from the Cape mentioning nothing
of any such contrast, besides other evidenc
es of its falfhood. —The Printers of th<
Baltimore papers (in which the paragrapl
firfl appeared) must therefore have beei
imposed on by some person, or persons so:
speculating purposes.
A letter from Cape Francois, dated Dec
20, informs that " the revolted slaves, ex
pefting a large army from France, to pu
an end to their ravages, had, by their de
puties, demanded freedom for their lead
ers, and they would agree to a peace. This
was refit fed, as unconditional fubmiflioi
will in a short time be required of them."
The negroes in Jamaica having intimat
ed that they meant to follow the examph
of their brethren, the French negroes it
Hifpaniola, the government has declaret
the execution of martial law through the
island upon all insurgents; which it i:
thought will have some effect in keeping
them quiet, in addition to their dread o:
the wild mountain negroes who are in alli
ance with the English.
A velfel arrived at New-York frorr
Cape-Francois last Thursday, which place
flie left the 2d of Jan. The negroes were
(till pursuing their wonted ravages, ir
burning and eleftroying the country. Foui
hundred troops had arrived from Krante
and three hundred more were hourly ex
pected, besides four tfioufand to be lookec
for the beginning of February. Account:
had been received at the Cape that the
remains of Port-au-Prince had been totally
destroyed, and the white people and mu
lattoes as much at variance as ever, the
latter having taken pofleflion of St. Marks
and armed several small vefiels to intercep
shipping bound to Port-au-Prince, it
which they had been in some tneafure fuc
cefsful. Other accounts fay. that 20,00<
troops were daily expected from France t(
crush the rebellion, and if poflible save tin
colony from total devastation.
On the 23d. of Nov. the Georgia Houfi
of Representatives took up the report o
their committee on the late election o
a member to represent the Tower diftri£
of that state in congress. —From this repor
it appeared that Judge Ofbornewas chargei
with various a'oufes of office, all tending t<
prevent freedom of election in the cafe re
ferred to, and operating as a daring attacl
upon the liberties, rights and privileges o
:he slate of Georgia ; Gen. James Jackfo:
being the duly e'efted representative so
the said lower diftrift instead of Gen. Art
ihonv Wayne, who had, principally bv th
influence and mal-praftices of said Judg
O(borne, been returned as duly elected.
The report being examined int oby th<
senate, the fa:d Judge Ofbornewas on Dec
15, found guilty of all the charges exhibit
?d against him (except the fourth) whei
the court awarded and adjudged as sol
lows that the said Henry Ofborne fhal
be no longer one of the judges of the fupe
rior court of the state of Georgia, and tha
his name be (truck off the lilt of justices it
Cambden county. Secondly,that he (hall bi
incapable to hold any office of trust, honor
or profit in the state of Georgia for thirt;
years. Thirdly, that his name lhall bi
(truck off the roll of the Attornies at law
Fourthly, that he lhall pay the sum of fu
hundred dollars, in specie, on or before thi
firft Monday in June next, to defray thi
actual costs of prosecution; and that thi
recognizance of the said Henry Ofborne ant
his sureties remain of force, until the fait
lum be paid into the Treafurv, or his bod'
lurrendered to the fheriff of Richmom
County, indXcharge of such lureties.
On the 23d of December, both Hou e
of Afiembly of that state came to the sol
lowing resolution :
Refclved, That the approbation and thank;
of this legislature be communicated to Ge
neral James Jackson, a Representative frorr
the county of Chatham, for his exertions ir
bringing forward to public investigation an
attack 011 the liberties and privileges of
tiie citizens of this state, in the last elec
tion for a member to represent this state in
the Oongrefs of the United States.
i 'he conduct of the citizens of the state
of Georgia, in thus punifliiilgaii officer who
had made so unjuftifiable a life of his ap
pointment, deserves to be highly applauded
by "every friend td his country. This no
ble example will prove to our rulers, that
the people watch with due circumfpectiroi.
their rights and privileges, and that they
are at a:! times ready So step forth in de
fence of them.
Extra El of a letter from GreenJlUrg, Jan. 31.
" It is mentioned in a letter from the
westward that the powder used on the last
Indian expedition was nearly ufcleft, ow
ing to want of strength. It is a fact that
the riflemen could not kill a deer with it.
and therefore took the precaution to pur
chaf; powder for themselves, before they
joined the army. The pack-saddles that
came down seemed, from their size, rather
calculated for the back of the Mammuth,
or non-defcript animal, than for horses,
and were objeffs of universal contempt,
even to Indians."
Western Discoveries.
It is incredible what pains are taken at
this day by more European nations than
one to fend enterprizing travellers, to ex
plore the interior regions of America. A -
mong these the British take the lead, and
forgetting the narrow insular limits that
nature has assigned them, and the various
cheJ v they have experienced in the road
to iiniverfal empire, on this continent,
they sreftill projecting a tributary govern
ment 111 the pathless forefts of interior Ame
rica. A Mr. Stuart, said to be in the em
ploy of the British court, has not long since
returned from a four years travels through
the hie" ■ i':o unexplored regions to the
westward. Taking his course weft south
westerly from the posts 011 the lake 3, he
penetrated to the head of the Miflouri, and
from thence due weft to within about 50a
miles of the shores of the Pacific ocean.
Nothing prevented his reaching the coast
but an inveterate war which had been for
some years carried 011 with all the implaca
bility of savage revenge, between the inte
rior Indians and those towards the sea-coast
parts. So great, however, was the ardour
of the enterprizing Mr. Stuart to attain
his object [the exploring the continent from
sea to sea] that he joined the interior Indi
ans in several battles against the fliore Indi
an?, all which coming short of his ohiect,
; >e prj.. u.'.ng a peace, after some stay, he
return&d neariv by the rot; he pursued in
going out. —Our information adds, that
beyond the Missouri, Mr. Stuart met with
many powerful nations of savages, in gen
eral, hospitable and courteous. The Indian
nations he visited westward appeared to
be a polished civilized people, having regu
lar-built towns, and being in a state of so
ciety not far removed from the European,
and only wanting the use of iron and steel
to be perfectly so. They are always clad
in skins, cut in an elegant manner, and in
many refpefts preferable to the garments
in use among the whites. Adjacent to these
nations is a vast range of mountains, which
may be called the Alleghany of the western
parts of America, and serves as a barrier
again!t the too frequent incursions of the
coast Indians, who entertain a mortal an
tiquity to the nations and tribes inhabiting
the country eastward, beyond the moun
tains.
Tranjlatiovs front French papers {received, by a
late arrival at N. York) Nov 10 —i£
PARIS.
Letter from the King of 1 ranee to the French Prin
ces his Brothers.
Paris, O&ober 16. 1791.
I was led to believe that my proceedings in
regard to you, and my acceptance of the Confti
tu ion, would have been (ufficient without any
further aQ on my part, to determine you to re
turn into the kingdom, or at leafl to abandon the
projeflsyou have in hand. Your conduCt has
since imprefled me with an opinion that you are
fiill ignorant of my real intentions. For your
akes, therefore, as well as my own, I will give
you my sentiments under my own hand. The
Withes of the nation and a desire of peace were
my leading motives for accepting the Conflitu
tion without limitation or rellriftion. I saw ii
was high time that an end should be put to the
troubles cf France, and finding it was in my
power to effe£t that purpose, by a concurrence,
I did not hesitate freely and voluntarily, to sign
my acceptation- My determination is n w un
alterable, and if the new modelled laws require
revision, time and reflection muflprecede amend
ment. I am fLilly resolved not to occasion 01
fuffer the leafl infringement of the laws by any
means contrary to (he public tranquility, and the
Conflitution I have accepted.
The motives that have thus swayed me should
have a similar influence over yourselves. I in
vite you then to follow my example. If you
(lill regard the peace and happiness of France,
which 1 have no reason to doubt, you will in
(lantly concur with me in re-establishing both,
and putting an end to those apprehensions whicf
agitate the minds of the people. Be wife and
moderate, and do all m your power to contribute
to tliat national felicity, which your absence and
unnatural designs and projects tend only to keep
at a diflance.
1 shall do my utmost that all emigrated French
men, who return into the kingdom may be put
into full polfeflion of those rights which the law
grants to them. Those who with ti> Ihew their
attachment to me, will not hesitate. I shall re
gard a serious attention, on your part, to what I
have said, as the greatelf proof of your attach
ment to vour brother and of fidelity to your
King. Do not expect that I can everaft in con
cert with you against the nation : my resolution
is unchangeable, and you will find me faithful
to my declaration.
Signed LOUIS.
Letter from the King to Louis-Stanijlavs-Xavicr,
• Prince of France, brother to the King.
Paris, Nov. 11,1791.
I wrote to you, my brother, the 16th of Oc
tober last, and you ought not to have entertain
ed a doubt that I expfefTed my real sentiments.
I am aflonifhcd my letter has not produced the
intended eife£t. To recall you to your duty I
made ul'e of every argument that 1 thought was
hkely to influence your mind. Your absence is
a pretext for every malevolent character to dc
fert his country, a fort of excuse for all those de
luded Frenchmen who suppose they do me ser
vice by keeping the nation in a date of disquiet,
that is the torment of my existence. The Revo
lution isfinifiied, the Conflitution is completed ;
such is the will of France, and 1 will support her
will. The salvation of the monarchy depends
upon the eflablifhment of the Conflitution—a
Conflitution which has assured your rights, upon
terms which ought immediately to be embraced.
Believe what 1 fay, my brother, reject those
idle doubts which have been imposed upon you
relative to my liberty. lam going to prove to
you by a moll lolemn ast, and in a mat'er which '
deeply interefls you, that I can ast freely. Ap
prove yourfelf my brother and a Frenchman by
yielding to my importunities; your true |.lace is
with me. Your interest, your sentiments, your
regards ought to prevail upon you to re-occupy
it. I invite you, and if neceflary, 1 command
you to le.tum.
Signed LOUIS.
Letter from the King to Charles Philippe, French
Prince, one of his Brothers.
Paris, Nov 11, 1791.
You mufl doubtless have had information of
the decree which the National AfTembly has if
lued relative to the French emigrants from their
country. I did not think proper to give my af
terll! being willing to persuade myfelf that con
ciliating nieafures would have the most effect in
producing what the interefls of the kingdom de
mand. My conduit toward you on all occasions
can leave you no doubt of my intentions and my
wishes. ihe public peace and my own quiet
are concerned alike in your return. You ought
no longer to persist in a conduit which perplexes
France and alfli6fs me, without contributing to
your real service—Spare me the pain of giving
my a (Tent to measures of severity against you —
consult your true interest : fuffer youlelf to ba
Iwayed by that attachment which you owe your
country —yield to the wishes ot France and of
your King. Such conduct, on your part, will
bed prove your sentiments towards me, and will
ensure the continuance of those which I have e
ver entertained for you.
Signed LOUIS.
Ath, Nov. 8. " The Thermometer of the
hopes of the French emigrants at BrufTels, seems
to be at the lowest point. I was much surprized
at this sudden change, till one of them gave me
a copy of the following note, which you mav
depend on as authentic".- Mrffage communicated
Nov. 2. 1791 to M. d: Lacueuille, a noble erne
grant) from the emperors minijlers in the low coun
tries. —" The governors general have conceived
great dilfatisfaaion at a fa ft which has jufl come
to their knowledge. Two French officers of
the Berwick regiment ate arretted at Oflend for
having enlisted a number of the emperors fub
jefts. A llep so injurious to his majefly's au
thority and the rights of nations, and in direct
opposition to the cartel, is Angularly absurd ;
especially in the relative situation of the French
exiles te our government, under the proteaion
of which they have been received in confor
mity to the rights of hospitality only.—These
rights being thus infringed, the guilty are to be
prosecuted with all the rigour of the law, and
itis with regret we inform the Maiquis de La
ijueuille, that the late injurious proceedings, in
addition to the accounts the government had pre
viously received of the alTemblrng, arming,
and plans of the French officers, have induced
it to observe in future the mod rigid vigilance,
with refpea to them.—We inform you once and
again that the emperors territories in the low
countries are not the proper place to raise troopa
for any invasion whatever. The officers of his
majefly's government therefore mean to put the
laws llriaiy in execution against these daring
attempts, and those who make themselves liable
must blame themselves for the conferences".
PRICE or STOCKS.
Six per cents, per £. . - 24/9.
Three per cents, ... 14/10.
Deferred fix per cents, ... 1 c/,
Final Settlements - .
Indents . ,
Bank Stock 1.2 Shares 106, pr. ct. prem.
Canal priaei 68 to 70 dol. advance.tr< t>»ntend with other nations on fsa, yet the
have to contend with nature, which has places
them it a diltance from the hanks, whilst th
proximity of our situation enables us to take tht
fidi in Jarger quantities j that, however, tht
weight of their bounties would,
our natural advantages, have been long finee fur
ficient to have crulhed us, if, by their (ooliih wars
they had not counteracted their own regulations
It is vain to expect, that our fifhery will ever b
benefitted by any market in the Briciih illes ; fj
the British take more fifti than they can consume
and export the surplus to the Mediterranean ; bn
it is well worthy confjdering, whether we ough
not, upon economical principles, to aid our filher.
men, until the European nations be obliged to relin
quilh the fifhery. Everyquintal of filh.that »e take
operates as a difcouragf ment to their monopolies :
and if we can render those monopolies more bur
densome to them, they mull inevitably give ui
the contest, as nature is in our favor. The Eu
ropean nations are frequently involved in war
a circumstance which giies our filheries an oppor
tunity of rising, whilst their* decline : as a fourci
of wealth, therefore, it is worth our while to pro
test our fithery, until it is better eftabltlhed ; an;
then it will no longer IVanJ in need of afiiftance
If we can but support ours for a little while, wi
will render the bounties of other nations useless
and destroy their monopolies.
The fifhing business is a profitable one, if tin
nations of Europe would not interfere with us : —
and the day will at length come, when we wil
have sole poflefiion of that field, which naturi
seems to i'ne intended that we (hould cultivat.
alone. Here, perhaps, gentlemen may ask whe.
ther we are going to diicourage the landed interefl
and burden every other branch, in order to en
courage the fifhermen of Marblehead ! —but thofi
fiftiermen and their families were fettled there
before the present Conflitution was formed ; an.
have at lead as good a right to protection, as th.
people on tbe western frontier ; —they may fay
Congress have as little right to lay a duty or
their exportations as upon the Rice and Indigo o
Carolina :—no such right is given to Congrels b;
the spirit of the Constitution j and yet those peo
pie are burdened with a dutv, which it is uncon
fiitutional to lay on the people of other parts o
the union. If the people of Carolina had eve;
to pay something towards the support of the fi(he
rie?, they would (till derive l'uthcient advantag'
to compcnfate them ; for how can they be sure o
their ability to export, except by being protefte,
in time of war, and supplied with carriage in time
of peace ?
There is an infinite quantity of the produce ol
this country, which finds a market merely in con
sequence of our going to seek it : there is nt
place, to which our veflels do not go in quert ol
one : if we were to wait, until foreign nation:
(hould visit our ports, to look for supplies, their
own economy would perhaps in the mean time
supply their wants, or they might be ignorant ol
our ability to fupplv them. If it be difadvantj
geousto have foreigners coming here to dictate th'
terms of sale, it mull be to our advantage to hav
more flapping : and in time of war, how are w<
to secure our property on sea ? the place, where
we are most expol'ea, is out of foundings, wheie
we meet with people who are tempted to offer u:
violence, under an idea of our inability to reliit or
retaliate: but if our navy was strengthened bj
the Fisheries, no nation would dare to insult us.
That the Fiihermcn are also capable of fervin;
their country on land, as well as on sea, the event!
of the late war fufficiently teftify. No fmali
snare of honor, acquired by our troops in the bat
tle at Trenton, is justly clamed by 5&0 Marble
head fifhermen : but it was chiefly on their ovm
element, that their services were conspicuous, as
during the courJ'e of the war, they captured a con
fiderab'e proportion of the Britilh (hipping : In
surance never was so high in Great-Britain, as it
vas soon after the commencement of the late
v-ar : the number of prizes, taken during its con
tinuance, was one to every sixth man. In time
of war, the coasting trade cannot allift the United
States: the merchant vessels cannot ; because
they mud go to Europe with their exports: bu;
the fifhermen will always prove a certain resource
on such occasions ; as they will have no other
employ, and mil therefore go into the naval ser
vice. There is no principle, on which a navy can
be kept up so cheaply and effectually as this, which
will not be attended with a farthing of expense.
Mr. Gerry wished, those gentlemen, who were
averfc to the principle of the present bill, would
turn their attention to the firft import law, enafttd
under the present government. In that ast a pro
■vifion was made, thar all duties paid on tbe im
portation of any articles therein fpecified, (hould
te refunded on their re-exportation. Salt is a
rnong the articles, which, by that ast, were sub
jested to a duty : and the fait being expended on
the fi(h that is exported, a drawback ought to b;
allowed on the exportation of the filh, as well a
if the fait itfelf were exported. Congress were
impressed with this idea, in framing the law :
and besides eftablifliing the principle, that the
fait, so expended, is entitled to a drawback, a'
well as any other dutied article, they further
eftabliihed a second, that, as it would be very dif
ficult to ascertain the quantity of fait used, the\
had a right to substitute an allowance, in lieu r!
the drawback. If Congress pofl'efTed such a righi
011 the former occasion, they dill retain it; ar.c
can by a new modification, ensure the allowance
to the persons, for whose benefit it was intended,
but who do not now feceive it. The provision.
contained in the firft feftion of the bill now under
consideration, is meant for that purpose ■. but i\
is not properly introduced : there is a great dif
ference between a drawback on exportation, an
a bounty on occupation : he wiihed therefore te
have the clause so qualified, as to comport with the
existing law ; and (if the gentleman from Virgi
nia would consent to withdraw his motion for
striking out the whole feftion) he would move tr,
strike out the words " bounty allowed," —and tu
insert, in their piace, ' allowance made.' This
(he said) would rentier the present bill c»nfonant
to the acts already pafled ; would foperfede th"
r.ecelTiry of a difciiflion refpefting the power of
Congirfs to grant bounties, and would fliorten the
debate. At the f-itne time, he observed, that
whenever the power, and the (jood policy of grant
ing bounties may become fubjetts of investiga
tion, he will he ready to K' ve llis reasons to prove
that Congress, do poflefs the right, and that the
exercise of it would be confident with found po
lie v.
Mr. Giles declared his willingnefo to accom
modate the gentleman from MalTachufctcs (Mr.
Gerry) by withdrawing his motion : though n
was merely on this gourd, that, if the
could so modify the clause, as to make it meel
the approbation of the house, he would then givt
it his airent 5 otherwise, the mere change of s
word would not be fufneient to falisfy him : th<
word " bounty" was nothing morr, thin an al
teration of the expreflion u(ed in the former a£t \
and was introduced here, to serve as a precedeni
to prove that Congress pofTcfs the power of grant
ing bounties : — his chief objections were pointed ai
the principle of the bill, not at any particulai
word.
Mr. Gerry could, in the present instance, fee
no difference between allowance and drawback \
instead of a drawback on the fait expended on the
ti(h, it was an allowance, to the fame amount, o::
the fifh, when exported.
Mr. Livermore was forrv that the gentlernai
from Maflachufetts has made the new motion,
which might perhaps draw the committee into .
disagreeable situation j for if his amendment
(hould be adopted, the question could not then be
taken on (hiking out the whole feclion : for his
own part, he wiihed to h;ive the question fairly
taken on the whole : and in such cafe, he would
vote against striking out the fedtion. Ibe amend
ment did not, in his opinion, alter the principle 01
the sense in any degree, whether drawback, al
lowance, or bounty, were the word used. Ihe
only question was, whether the drawback fhoula
he fr> modified, as to render it - more agreeable t,.
the fifhermen, who are hard laborers, though no:
very critical logicians. He wished the bill to be
cither loft or carried on plain principles, which
every gentleman would understand in giving his
vote ; if the fe£\ion were not struck out, and thai
any gentleman had a real amendment to offer, he
would give it his aflent.
Mr. Fitzfimons wished the latter motion to be
.withdrawn, *nd the question fairly taken on the
original proposition for striking out the whole fee
ion. He thought it very unimportant, whethei
£ bounty," or " allowance" were the exprefiior
jfed i nor could he underfrand the obje&ions of
he gentleman who had moved to strike out the
fe&ion : it was not contended (he said) that Con
jrefs have not a right to allow dravvoacks : and
f they poflefs that right, it will be very difficult
.0 prove, that they have not alio a right to change
[hem, and to allow them in some other way, provi
ded that the amount of the drawbacks be not ex
reeded by the alteration. The gentleman from
Virginia [Mr. Giles] had said that the bounty
v-.'ould exceed the drawbacks : il, up,on calculation,
this is found to be the cafe, let the bill be amend
ed, so as to reduce the bounty within proper li
mits: the principle of the bill is not here involv
ed : the question is (imply, whether Congress have
a right to commute the drawbacks, and to allow
the fame sum in another form ? the next question
will then be, whether they have a right to exceed
it? if they have not, let the sum be limited.
Mr. Murray observed, that the question was.
whether a bounty fnould be given for the encou
ragement of the fifhery : the amendment propo
sed by the gentleman from Maflachuletts [Mr.
Gerry] did not alter the principle j it was (till
' the old cocked hat" on the one band, and on the
Dther, " the cocked old bat—the gentleman from
Pennsylvania [Mr. Fitzfimons] had aflerted, thai
Congress have a right to aiter the drawback-, anc
allow them in any other mode, by which the citi
zens may receive back their own money : but thi:
s not a cafe of that nature j for the bill fays,
in cafe the monies appropriated [for the pay
ment of the bounties] shall be inadequate, the de
ficiency (hall be supplied from the treasury
here the treasury is pledged for the payment of the
bounties ; and the question is not on the princi
ple of changing the drawback, but of giving en
:ouragement to a particular branch, at the ex
pense of the community at large.
Mr. Goodhue observed, that the exa& amount
jf the bounties cannot beforehand be ascertained :
although the extent of the present exportation be
known, the quantity of fifli, that will be export
ed next year, is uncertain : the fiiheries may in
crease ; but whether they increase, or decreafe 5
the principle upon which the bill is calculated, is,
that government fliall not in any cafe pay more
than is paid at present.
Mr. Ames remarked, that although the pub
lie may some times pay more, yet it will also
sometimes happen that they will pay less : the
calculation had been made upon an average, anc
that average was supposed to be in favor of go
vernment : moreover, the money appropriated
is not the money of government ; and although i
be apparently taken from the public, it in fa£
belongs to those very people, who are to receive i
back, again.
Mr. Barnwell observed (among other things
that those who are best acquainted with the fifhe
riesj look on the proposed mode ofencouragemeni
as the best ; and that they ought to be allowec
to use the gifts of the public in the most advan
tageous manner—that, if he were himfelf con
cerned in the. cultivation of any particular com
modity, for the encouragement of which a furr
were granted, he would be much f'urprifed to meei
a refufal, in cafe he should come forward, anc
propose some more eft'e&ual mode of applying
that grant—-that even if the bounties {hould hap
pen to exceed the drawbacks, by eight or ter
thousand dollars, the number of seamen to be
maintained would be well worth that sum;
that whenever the two houses of Congress anc
the Prefidcnt of the United States are of opinion
that the general welfare will be promoted by rais
ing any sum of money, th y have an undonbtcc
right to raise it, provided the taxes be uniform ; —
that although it may not at present be an o'»je£l
of great confeouenc? to .America to become <
maritime power, yrc it is of some importance t'
lave constantly at hjnd a tiurfery of feame-n, t"
furnifliour merchants with the means of trans
porting their commodities across the sea ; —that
whatever allowance or bounty is granted upon
any particular commodity, mult ever be paid by
the whole, for the advantage of a part, whether
it be upon cotton to the southward, upon fifti to
the eastward, or upon other commodities in the
middle dates;—that, if the people cannot have
so much confidence in their repr.-fentativrs, as
to trust them with the power of granting bounties,
the government mud be a very paltry one indeed.
The object of the bill (he Paid) was only to allow
to the fi(hermen, in 'the manner that would be
most beneficial to them, the fame sum, that
would otherwise be allowed ; if however, from
Lime and experience, it Ihould appear that thi>
bounty proved an impolition on government, he
ivoulJ nothefitate to revoke it.
(To be continued.)
From th'. American Daily Advertiser.
C A I U S, No. IV.
THE minister who imitates the conduct of
other nations, should be warned by their
example : and whilst he seeks to obtain the
■ood, {hould, at lead reieft the evil of their
vftems. Had this been the governing maxim
)f the American Financier, we should not have
een, in an expedient for eftablifiiing public ore
lit, a recognition of the principle for rendering
jublic debt immortal in an admission of the po
ition, " that national debt is nc national evil." —
The history of nations, and the experience o!
nankind {hould have taught him that hischimer
:ial willi, "that the creation of debt Ihould al
vavs be accompanied with the means of cxtin
;ui{hment," is wholly inapplicable to nation:
hat have once adopted the fatal expedient oi
unding. With the example of Europe before
tim, and particularly of Great-Britain, whose
yftems form the prototype of his, he might
lave seen that the facility to borrow, which a
unded debt occasions, always creates an indifpo
ition in the legifiature to impose new taxes on
he people, for fatisfying either the occasional or
xtraordinary exigencies of government, until,
rnder an accumulation of debt, the support ol
mblic credit and the exigence of the nation, ir
efiilably call forth the application of new re,
ources by further burthens and impositions on
he property and iriduftry of the community,
also the little artifice of a finking fund,
vhich like the tub thrown out to the whale,
night be intended to amuse the people, bui
:ould never be fericufly contemplated as an ef
'eclive means for the extinguilhment of the pub
ic debt, sacred as this depolit may be supposed
o be, each ordinary legislature poUeffes an equal
lower over it with their predecessors, and there
ore whenever an exigency arises beyond the
■:;ifl:ing ability to obtain a loan, this will be re
garded in the light of a subsidiary fund, ready
o be pledged in aid of any other doubtful fund
lpon which the sum wanting may be proposed
o be railed ; thus, in fact, facilitating the con
rafting of new, whilst it ihould seem intended
or the discharge of old debts, and affording at
he fame time, a full exoneration of the minister,
n the apology, that the diversion of the fund
A>as alegiflative ast, although, perhaps, he readi
ly forefaw when the fund was -flabliflied, the
icceflitv that would occasion this diverlion ol
t. A Ihort review of the Britilh funding fyllem
will elucidate the truth of these remarks.
In the reign of king William the 3d, about
100 yeaisago, the foundation of that fyftcm was
aid, and in the year 170 a, the national debt ol
Great-Britain amounted to little more than six
teen millions of pounds sterling ; but in 1714
it had reached to 53 millions and a half; and
in 1748 to 7S millions ; in 1763 to 122 mil
lions ; in J 775, at the commencement of the
American war, to about 130 millions, and in
the close of that war, in 1783, to 260 or 28c
millions. Thus, in a period of about eighty
years, a debt originally not greater than the pre
lent debt of the United States, was accumulated
to the enormous amount that has been mention
ed by an addition of about 240 millions ; —to
point to the various causes of anticipations,
loans, fubferiptions, annuities, tontines, &c,
which have produced this efTeft, would be a;
unnecessary as they arc manifell. Suffice it, that
the opprelted people of that nation, at the pre
sent day, are expeiiencing all the consequences
of perpetual debt and perpetual taxes, for pay
ment, not of the principal, but merely ol the
annual interest of that enormous debt, without any
other hope than that of being able to keep up the
expiring credit of the nation a few years longer.
Nor is it unworthy remark, that a few years
after funding their debt, they adopted the expe
dient of rendering all their temporary taxes
perpetual, and that in almost all their subsequent
laws, the finking fund was invariably diverted
in aid of thai upon which the proposed loan was
to be obtained, (ometimesby the indirect means
of borrowing from it, and sometimes by express
appropriation, but always under fanftion of a
legifiative act. Be warned, therefore, my coun
trymen ! ponder on these things ; and if you
regard your liberties, hold it as hallowed as the
name of Heaven, never to permit the addition
of one {hilling to the present funded debt of the
United States, and to consider as a Traitor to
his country, that man who {hall ever dare to
propose to divert the present finking fund to any
other purpose than that for which it is so sa
credly and solemnly pledged— " the discharge
of the capital of the public debt."
CAIUS.
ROBERT SMOCK,
Woollen Draper & Mercer,
lias juji received by the Jhip figou, from London,
and for Jale at hn Store, on the north eafi corner
of Market ord Third Jfrepts, Philadelphia,
AN ELECANT ASSORTMENT OF
SUPERFINE and super broadcloths, in almuff
every colour.
Ladies fuperfine habit cloths,in the moil fafliion
able colours.
Superfine caflimers, do.
Do. and super elailic striped cloths.
Milled drabs and hunters cloths.
A variety of fancy waiftcoatirg, in silk, silk and
cotton, silk molelkiu, caflimers printed and
tamboured, and fuperfine firiped Spanilh torti—
nets.
Mens black fattens, florentines, and silk prunellas
of superior oualites
Silk, silk and cotton, cotton and worded hose,
alforted.
Sattins andmantuas, a beautiful variety.
Superfine rattinets, with a large colleition of best
trimmings for cloths, &c. of every quality.
Moreens, joans spinning, durants and caliman
coes.
Hairbines and camblets, Sec.
9-8 wide luperlinc Majftilles quilting with bor
ders.
Marseilles bedquilts and catton counterpanes, 9-4
to 12-4.
Glanders bedbunts and bedticlcings.
A beautiful variety of chintzes and cottons.
An elegant alljrtment of yard wide furniture
chintzes, in beautiful colours and patterns,
with a large variety of furniture cottons.
Velveteens, velvets, corduroy*, thicksets, fancy
cords, Itockinrts, royal ribs, fattinets, hair
plulhes, &c. &c.
Stiiped and grey, twilled and plain Bath coatingr.
Kofe blankets afiorted.
ROBERT SMOCK has also for Sale, a greaC
V ariety ot GOODS of the belt quality in ilieir
everal kinds. He presumes it is unneceflary to
je more particular in the enumeration, and that
t is fufiicien" to fay the aiTortment is very gene
pal and extensive, confiding of almod every arti
.le in his line of business.—Being desirous of giv
ng entire fatisfa&ion to thole who mav be pleased
:o favour him with their cudom, as well
is ef meriting a continuance of thofecuf
:omers, whose favours he has hitherto experien
:ed, he flatters himfelf the cheapnejs of his Coods
will be the bed means of eftefting his willies.
A. few Copies of the following REPORTS and
ACTS may be had at the Office, No. 239,
Market. Street.
REPORT oj the Secretary of the Trea
sury, relative to a provision for the
support of public credit.
Plan for the general arrangement of tlte
Militia of the United States, by the Secreta
y at War.
Report of the Secretary of State for efla-
Uifhing a uniformity in the weights, mea~
fures, and coins of the United States.
Report of the Secretary of the Treafary
?n ejlablifhing funds for paying interejl on
lie debts ajfumed by the United States.
Attorney General's Report on the Judici
iry System ef the United States.
Report of the Secretary of State on the fub~
ieH of the Cod and Whale ffheries.
AbJlraEl of the Exports of the United
States for one year.
Report of the Secretary of the Treasury
m a National Bank.
Secretary of State's Report on Weflern
Lands.
Report of the Secretary of the Treasury
on Manufaflures.
An A& to incorporate the Subscribers ts
the Bank of the United States, with the Sup
plement.
An AEI to provide more effectually for the
Collection of the Duties on Goods, Wares, &
Merchandize imported into the United
States, and on the Tonnage of Ships or Vef
fds.
The Act commonly called the Excise Law.
The JOURNAL of the House of Repre
sentatives for the three frft fffions, with In
dexes complete, may be hadftparate, or hay
bound in one vol.
The LAWS of the frjl threefefjions of
Congress (publijhed by authority J in folio,
half and whole bound, with a complete In
lex.
H O W E L L's
SMALL MAP of PENNSYLVANIA,
May be had of Mr. Bailey, and Mr. Crukfiiank
Printers, in Market-flreet; or of the author in
N. Fifth-ftreet, No. 88, who has the said maps
palled on canvass, Cut, folded andcafed for pod.
?t carriage.
Philadelphia Jan. 30. 1792-
WANTED immediately, a JOUR
NEYMAN BOOK-BINDER,
logo to Lancafler. Enquire of Francis
Bailey, printer, No. 116, High-Street.
&= 1.1 -n ■ ' " ■ • —
PRINTED BY
CHILDS AND SWAINE,
AT THTIR OFFICE, NO. 239, HIGH-STREET;
NEAR SIXTH-STREET,
pfr 11. AB* t. p HIA •