Vol. I.
From the (Boftoh) Indepfndent Chro
nicle, of Sep. 6.
the CRISIS—No. i•
To the Independent American Electors.
AS we have for a loliff while been di
. verted with pompous paragaphs
in certain papers, relpedting the admini
ilration of our government, it is pioper
•i'<~ tins period, wlien a choice of Federal
'"Kepx It ntatives is to take place, for "The
a '.•otde' to examine for thcmfelves, and
enquire, whether the great purpofee of
our Federal Government, have hitherto
been properly attended to ; and whether
the tit zens at laigc have lb much reason
to applaud the measures adopted.
A writer in Fenno't paper, again(l Mr
7 t jF cr J°"> fignid, "An i inerjean," ailerts
ii us a fait, that that Officer arraigns
the principal meafvrts of government—and
that he takes no pain t to Conceal it—The re
jiuta i.n of Mr. jf jferjon, in too well
known to need any panegyric, he having
filled with honor, the inolt important
pubh< ollices both at home and abroad.
Ai d as a further proof of his known at
tachment to the Interest of his country,
he is now, by the appointment of the Pie
/ident, at the "head" of one of the princi
pal departments in the government.
This being the cafe, notwiihllanding
an anonymous writer may attempt to in
jure hid reputation, yet when inch a cha
racter arraigrrtthe ''principal measures of
the government, and takes no pains to con
ceo I it," the jealotify of the people is na
ture Ily <xci'ed, endthev arc led ill confe
qiunce thereof; to invelligate more mi
nutely the conduct oi their rulers.
Whethei Mr .JeJfetfm is right it) his
cenlutes i n men and mealim a, does not
altogether depend on opinion, but on reali
ty •. Or, as the author alluded to expref
fes himfelf, "Faits fpeaklouder than 'words.'
The happinefg and profpefity of this coun
try, do not conliit in frothy declamation,
Or in the number of pompous paragraphs
exhibited in Fenno's Gazette of the Uni
ted Nutrs, and retailed out by Rujfell's
Columbian Centinel : Buttle uraiiu en
quiry is,whether the government is admin
ilfered upon those principles which were
contemplated ut the time of i s adoption.
The fu! je£t upou this extensive scale, will
be candidly con lid red.
The einbai raflments under which our
COMMEKCE labors, wasonegreat cause,
alid aimed the principal, w< ich 1 d to the
adoption of our present governments—
The debates in the fevrial conventions,
evidently show, that this was an object,
among all the federal members, of the '
highell tnagHitude. At that time many
foreign ports were fluit aga nit us Fac
tors wen flocking from Europe, to relide
among us, and our navigation w.it tmbar
rafTecl by foreign rell ridtions.
Thelc difficulties were early taken into
serious conlideration t.y the merchants,
t<adefmen an I other citizens of the town
JVillon, and circnl <r letters were for
icd by a very refpett ble Committee,
.icflly calling on the frveral St.ite JLe
atures, to empower Congrelß t» re
>,ve tll<-m —These iepielcut.ition:i \vi le
attended to, and ■> convention from
ffeveral ilates was speedily held for the
purpofeot regulating our commerce, and
cxtmding the American navigation. The
measures then contemplated without a
more minute detail, may be considered as
the bafts of our Federal Government.
A few quell ions now naturally arise,
Have the evils then complained of been re
mcdicd ? Have any cfTedtual measures
been taken to revive our commercc, or
extend our navigation ?— Has that com
mercial war taken place, which was neces
sary to promote ourcarrying trade, or
those measures of retaliation been adopt
ed, to open to us foreign ports, in order
that the navigation of this country, might
Hand upon a more refpidtablc footing ?
By P. FREN KA U : Publijke.d Wednesdays and -/vtukuays, at Tnrt;e Dollars per annum.
W fe D N E S 1) A Y, September ig, 1792.
It is presumed not ; hut on the corf
trary, the Well India Islands, notwith
standing tlic valt advantages we have had
of them in th ir commotions, an 11 11 shut
against us. Foreign (hips u flu me a right
lo enter our ports, witli a tiifling extra
duty, wi ile the Amcricand dare not enter
a petty ifiand, unless peritiittcd hy procla
mation from the governor thereof
Notwithlfauding tlie high founding
terms of the dignity of government, th.
Comrrefa of the Un ted tjtates have no
been able to open one port ; hut during
the ir long fefiions/the members have of
ten read in our public papers, the humi
liating paragraphs, that American veffiln
irepermitterl t for a certain period, to cai
ry neceJfarieS to some diftrelied Ifiand.—
fnlfead of coming forward with refolu
:ion, to support the American Commerce,
ind taking an advantage of the fituatiou
)f tlie Welt-Indies, lcffiun after feflio
lave palled over, without effedling the
,'reat objedt for v»hiih the conltitution wuc
principally eilablilhed,
\V ithout refle&ing on the debates which
lave taken up such r large proportion ol
lie several fefliows, • the people" had rea
lon to expeCi, from the magnitude of the
lubjett, that the American navigation
Would not have given place to matters ol
i trifling onctrn .
Thus far as to the operations of govern
went in ext nd ng our C'-mmerce in A
nerican vefTels- The attempts also to re
taliate by an extra duty on foreign hot
torn*, are equally futile : the duties I eing
'o trifling that they answer no cfTe&tta
purpose and appear only as an effort
fraught with feeblenefs and timidity
The measures pursued, as they pnrticu
larly refpeft, the American trade, will be
the lubjiCtof the next number.
A REPUBLICAN. '
Mr. lIENRY BANKS's Address
7*o the Printer of the Virginia Gazette.
sir,
THE notice which I gave to the pub
ic, thro' your paper, relative to the confli
ution of this Hate, did not pioceed either
From a motive of oflentation, sedition or
ifTieionfnels ; for, although I have, am!
ever will affcrt the right of complaining
igainll a public grievance, f hold it as <i
republican, a reqinlitc and political duty,
to conform io the laws and regulations ol
my country
To new model the court ir ntion of thi<
Hate, had been long the wifli of many, and
lias been partially thr object of public
invcltigation—the advocates for changt
liave not been It Trillions to priffi ihe op
ponents have been prompt at t vafion
'1 hat the public mind might he fairly
friwn to the fubjeft, policy dictates tin
node which I adopted, and reflection now
ullifies it. if my objedt is fallacious, it
.vill be ealier (oexpofe it under a previous
md public avowal, than if it was to be at.
empted at an unexpected moment. 1
lanuot believe a modern political opinion,
hat a free people or their rcprefentatives,
hould he ever tricked into a measure.
The public mind, when rightly afTayed,
a-ill be both liberal and virtuous : the )>rin
•iples of universal human right arc more
md more underltood. insomuch that trickn
ire now necessary to prevent voluntary
:fForti to enforce them.
It in true that the legislature of Virgi
nia may withhold the recommendation,
but if they fhoilld do so the right
of thepeople will not therefore be impaired
nr leflencd, nor has any power on earth
the tight of controul, as relates to thin
great human poftulatum. I should
be lorry to find that the contracted policy
of an illiberal Legislature, in avoiding n
me; lure both right and neceflary, should
force the people to regenc ate their go.
vernment by a diredt alfuo ption and excr
cife of their original rights.
The neighbouring government! of Pcnu-
(ylvar.la, Maryland, Carolina, and Ken
lucky, allow to all who contribute to tin
(uppu of government, the lights of fttff
iage t in Virginia; land holder* only have
the p vilriic
At '>e (irtl fcrtlitrient of the country
•his a til critical policy might have been
prop? Nt " .1* i. thonld be fnpported ot
"."« r V w - It' iWiri i • '
lion, 'ibi -'tbc auiwervd by the ingenuity
ol the c.olt refined < ,i(uift VViih nrmsul
invitation wc f>erfuade the world to par
take and enj.-.y the privileges of human
i quality, at the very instant when h,
foundation of the government denies tc
thetn tin: full eflc-n ial of freemen, tt
wit, the right of Men are tlx
(tren/fth and fotirce of wealth throughout
the world, and few countries want the •
more than this One man who fuppoMt
a family by a ufeful occupation, is of mor«
intriufic value to the comtnunily than ioc
who derive their support from rents ot an)
other fixed revenue, and yet the govern
inent of Virginia p aces the lord of the
ioil in a degree fuperio to one who it
not, beyond t e rtacli of calculation
I lit landholder ia an hereditaiy Itgtfla
'or v> ill the to elrft representatives,
not only for htmfelf, hut for those win
are lift wealthy or It-Is fortunate ; while
i his i" the cafe, and many valuable citizen!
fuel themfe'ves to be less than urn, is it
I'olul.le tt>at our country can ftouri'h etjua
to hrr natilial resources ?
Maiiy of the mod valuabl • citizens ol
this l";tte who wanted refoutcts to give
to t'leinfelvea and families this political
t flaL'iHim nt, have emigrated to Kentu ■
kty, Georgia &c. and we fee their places
fill: , by refugees, excise men and dock
holders—and if the degrading policy tit
which I complain, shall he much longer
continued, this country will present a bit
ter fpeflacle of pride, power, impettinence,
and extortion, on one fide; humility, fub
mtflion, obedience & slavery, on the other.
1 he g t.ius & gt od sense of this country,
when railed into exertion, will unite with
indignation, againlt the policy which in
calculated to make one greater, and ano
ther left than man j and those principle!
of univcrfal natural equality and right,
which are now to be found in other llatee
and countries, maybe edablifhed at home,
on a balls which will receive additional
llrength by use—to efl'edt this is now, and
I hope will ever bc< my ohjedl.
If it was nccefl.try to call forth the
(Irengib of this country, t6 repel an inva
ding enemy, would an inhabitant not a
land holder, be on that account excufrd :
And yet, why should he he required tc
make battle i To protest his wealthy
landlord or aridocratical neighbour in a
tyrannical enjoyment and ufufruft ofpower,
which woultl be immediately used againll
those who defended it ? Rrnfon fays No —
the conllituiion and government of Vir
ginia fays, Yes. If then, oppression am
degradation arc to be th ■ governmenta
watch words of this country, it matters
not b, whom they are adiuinillered, wlic
ther by a tyrannical king, a felf createt
a ilbnracy, an impolitic legislatUre, or i
speculating Congref*.
The caution which is given in your pa
per under the frgnature of Americanus, tc
prevent an injury to the cause whi' h 1
have efpoufrd, implies eithi r a right ot
ability ; but as he confefles nn entire igno
lanceof a ncceflary podulatum, to wit 9
knowledge i f our slate conftimtion, I
must recommend to him, and other fcep
tics to read the refohitions of the Conven
-1 tion of 1776, and to examine the census ol
inhabitant" taken under the aufpiees of the
federal government v the ftrll givts a re
presentation oftwo members to coun
ty in Virginia ; the second will prove that
many counties ftom 15 to 20,000 inhabi
tants, have 110 more political weight than
others ftom lsoo to 2000 ; the moll llre
nuous advocate for old maxims, on the
preferiptive preference of one man ovct
anothei, will not ptcfumc, that, if nature
N UMB, 03.
I'as given a preference to any description
o' people, that Hit hag done so at thedif
proportion of ten to one. I will not draw
companfons, nor can I agree that the ac
tive and iuduftri us fon> of the mountain!
•tre of lels value in i lie scale of human af
fairs, than those whose ftf ' « c
'h' in locality, ncai a fifijj' i^ r
• I • , . I. r ' I
m * : :\ * is ■ po. impolition^
which everjr republic-™ Ihotlld endeavour
to dfvelope anil cuuntera.4,
. Sirongly imprefHd with tliefe fenti
menti, t have rxpofed tnyfelf to publ c
critic i(m ; and aliliougli I may not have
citheV talentg or influence to effedt iny wiflv
f«, I flrall induce my countrymen to re
lict and by example prove, that they
liaVe a right to utter their thoughts.
HENRY BANKS.
I From " Letters {jufl publi/hcd) (iilhffd
to the 7eomanry of the United State.,,"
containing ObUrvnlions on the dangerous
tendency »/ ejlabijh'mg notional m.inufac•
toriet, cxc ufively privileged, and -with
large (apituLs J
WHEN Minifl.Tg are fiifFert'd td
introduce, and Legilhtoia a '■ pt,
the spirit and rei;ulat on of a mi'itaty corps,
into civil government, a d by arbitrary
laws, interfcri- «"n the p ivnte attions of
citizen* ;it im.iiifcHs fliam'ehil i;noancd
61 that knotvledc.- of with whicli
• very ."(at finaii should !><■ arquginted, or
1 of that found jctdgment, nd of
principle of phd sophy, winch
would enable them to make a ufeful advait'
of Inch ki!<i«'|rd^e.
The history of civil f.,riety does not
furnifh a single inftnnce of jLcpiflaiorsr in
:erferin« with, and diVesting the occupa
ti ns of citizens, but with injury.
Ihe celebrated Solon introduced tliig
("retched flem of policy. To ingratiate
iiimfelf with the licentious citizens of
Athens, he ordained, that the liu/btndmeH
lioulil not fell the produce of their faring
:oany, Hit the Athenian!. The fmallquan
i y of oil,railed in the country, wai .done
id mit ted to a free, Unlimited file. Thie
anjull regulation ferfed a tempoiary pur
anfe of supplying the city with provifiong,
it a low price j bot the faimcrs, feeling
hemfelreg injured, converted so g cat »
>;oportion of the country into olive y;;rds,
hat in a ftiOrt time proviiions became dear'
•r than ever, and the quantity of oil pto
iuced, occasioned Athens to become one
>f the moll considerable markets for oil in
hat quarter of the world.
1 he Athenian policy, of rcftrifling the
ale of the prodttce of the country, watr
imitated by the Romans, and produced
nnilai efleftl, The culture of grain wa»
ncgleAed in the neighbourhood of Rome,
ind the diflant provinces were opprefTed,
in oider to supply the city with bread.
Modern politicians, without adverting
to the inevitable conferences, have too
generally adopted the regulating spirit of
ihe ancients. Some time previous to the
Lite war, American and British veffrJs,
fceking for the heft market fur their wheat
in the Mediterranean, were accufl med to
put into Mar failles, to p'ocuie a know*
ledge of the market! ( if tlie difference of
price was not eonflderably in favour of any
other port, the liritifli Consul, who adted
ag had directions to fell
It fometimen happened, though very rare,
that the veflelti were ordered to Genoa or
Leghorn. This freedom of commerce
umbrage to some of the people ;
they procured an order for instituting a
society of Plenty, whose duty it wan to
seize any provifiong coming into Marfcil
les, in order that the numerous citizens of
that place, might be furnrthed with such
necedarieg, at a low price. Afier tliig,
regulation the veffelg avoided the port,
and pruviiitii! became dearerthau before.-
be continued. JMANfFESTO, pulUJhed at firvfilt the
3%th Jt/ty, 179!) given by the Duke of
Jirunjiuick, Commander in Chief of the
Au, irian and Prujfian armies.
7'HEIR majesties,- the emperor and
king of Prussia, having confided to me
the command of the combined armies
vrtiie.i they have caufcd to be afTembled
on the frontiers of Ftance ; I have resol
ved to announce to the inhabitants of that
kingdom, the motives that have induced
tliele two fovercigns to this flep, and the
principles by which they are governed
therein.
After having arbitrarily suppressed the
fights and pretenlions of the German prin
ces in Alsace and Lorraine, and overset a!]
interior order and good government, ex
ercised agninfl the facrtJ person of the
and his august family innumerable
njuries and violences, continued from day
'to"*"3ay, and roiiftantly renewed, thofc
who have us. r d the reins of govern
ment haw, at length, filled up the inen
fu e of the!.' iniquities, in causing *n un
uit war to be declared against his Impe
rial majesty, and in attacking his provin
ces, situated in the Low Countries So«i«
of the possessions of the Germanick empire
have\ been involved in this invasion, and
others have efcapei', only by fubuiittwg to
the imperious menaces of the predomina
ting faction, and of its eauflaiies.
His majesty the kin/; of Prussia, united
with his Imperial majesty, by the ties of a
ftri& and defenfive alliance, at well as ir
his quality of preponderating member oi
the Germanick body, has not been abk
to refufe marching to the succour of liu
ally, and co-estates ; and it is in both theli
qualities, that he takes upon hlralelf the
defence of that monarch and of Gev
many.
To these two interests is united anothei
equally important, and which the two fo
verrigns have much at heart—that of cau
sing the anarchy exilling in the interior of
France to cease to stay the aflauln mafic
ui>on the throne and the aitar ; to re-ef
taolifh the legal authority ; to restore to
the king the liberty and fafety of which
he has been deprived; and to place him in
a firuntion to exercite tl* legitimate au
thority i hat of right belongs to him.
Convinced that the found p*rt of the
nation abhers the excesses of a faction that
subdues it, and that the greatet number oi
the inhabitants wait with impatience th<
moment of auxiliary aid openly to deciar»
themselves against their odious opprefTois
his majesty the emperor, and his majesty
the king of Prussia, call upon and invitt
them to return without delay to the pithi
of reason, of juftiee, of order, and ol
peace. With these views the uader lign
ed general and commander in chief of the
two armies declares as follows :
1 ft. That, led into this war by irrefifti
ble motives, the two courts propose tc
themselves no other object than the good
of France, without intending to enrich
themfelvei by means of their conquests.
2d. That they do not intend to inter
meddle in the interior affairs of France,
but mean only to deliver the king, the
queen, and the royal family from their
captivity, and to procure to his mod
chriftitn majesty the necessary security
that the king may be enabled without
danger or obstacle to call together such
convocation or assembly as he may think
proper, to affilt in prefcrving that happi
sefs to his fubjefts, which he has promi
sed to them, and to which he will contri
bute all that may depend upon him.
3d. The combined armies will protiiS
all cities, burghs, vil ages, persons and
pofl-ffions, that (hall submit to the king,
and they will instantaneously contribute
to the reftorirtg of order, and a good po
lice throughout all France.
4th The national guards are called
upon provisionally, to watch over the tran
quility of th; country, to the fafety ol
the persons and effects of all French citi
jsens, until the arrival of the troops of their
imperial and royal majesties, or until it
shall beotherways ordered, upon pain ol
being petfonally rcfponftble. On the
other hand, such of the national guards as
shall have fought aga r.ft the troops of the
allied courts, and shall be taken arms in
hand- shall be treated as enemies, and pu
nifhed as rehelrto their king and dillur
bers of the public p ace.
sth. That the general officers, fubal
tern- &nd foMiers of the troops oi the
French lire are equailv called upon to re
turn to their ancient- fealty, and inftanily
to submit to the king their lawful
rei^n.
6lh. That the members of the depart
ments, the diftri&s and municipalities are
held equally responsible on their heads, and
with all thtir goods and chattels for all
crimes, fires, murders or atrocious acts,
that they may not have used fill their en
deavour* to prevent within their jurisdic
tion : they are further held provisionally
to continue their functions until his moll
christian majesty (hall be placed at full li
berty to provide ultimately, or at lead
[ until in his name other steps shall be taken
in the interval.
7th. The inhabitants of all cities, bo
roughs and villages that shall dare trs de
fend themselves against the armies of theit
imperial and royal ißajeflies, or to fire upon
them either ip the open field or from any
windows,doors, or openings oftheir houses :
shall be immediately punilhed according tc
jheiigor of the martial law, and
houfel (liamviiinil.iilwt .nl. I Or btirß.-'dta or
the contrary, all inhabitants of the lui J ci
ties, burghs or villages, who Hull hafteti
to submit to the king by opening theii
doors to the troops of -their msjellies, shall
be instantly placed under their protection.
their persons and effects (hall remain un
der the faftguard of the laws, and care
shall be taken to provide for the security
of all and each one of them.
£th. The city of Paris and all its i'tiha
bitants without diftin&ion, are held tc
submit immediately, and without delay, tc
the king ; to set die king at full and en
tire liberty ; and to assure to him, as well
a« to th; toitul family, that inviolability
and refpeft which fubje£ls owe to theit
sovereign by all the laws of nature ar.d ol
rations. Their imperial and royal ma
jetties render personally responsible of all
events upon their heads, and to be tried in
a summery military way, without the leaf!
hope of pardon, all member* of the na
tional aflembly, the department, the d>f
trift, the municipality, and the national
guard of Paris, justices of the peace, and
all others to whom it may belong Theil
f*id majeflics declaring, on the faith and
jvord of an emperor and a king, that il
the castle of the Thuilleries is either for
<:ed or insulted ; that if the least violencf
—the least outrage be offered to hia ma
jefty, the queen, or the royal fami!y-»-i
immediate measures be not taken for theii
fafety, tbe'r preservation and their liberty
that they will take an exemplary and evei
memorable vengeance by delivering ovei
'he city of Pari* to miliiary execution anc
a total subversion, while the guilty revolt
ers are receiving the punishment they wil
have merited.
Their imperial and royal majesties, or
the contrary, promi e to the inhabitant:
of the city of Paris, tfiat they will us:
their good office* with his mofl chriftiar
majesty, to obtain pardon of all wrongi
and errora that may hare been hcretofon
done, and to take the most vigorous mea
fin es to tnfure their persons and effetts, i:
they immediately and* exattly obey thf
present injun&ion. s
Finally their majefl'es being unable tc
acknowledge any laws as existing in Franc<
except such as shall emanate from ths
king, enjoying a perfect liberty, the)
protest beforehand against the authentic!
ty of any declarations which may be mad<
in the name of his most christian majesty
as long as hit fafcred person, that of the
queen, and the royal family shall not bt
really in fafety ; in consequence, their im
perial and royal majesties invite and car
neftly solicit his most christian majesty tc
name a city in his kingdom the most neai
to the frontiers into which he may b<
pleased to retire with his queen and fami
ly, under a ftror.g and fuEScient escort
which flail be sent for that purpose, in
order that his rpoft chrifthn majesty may
call together the ministers and councillors
he may think proper, or colledt such
convocation or afFembly as may appear
belt to him to provide for the refloration
of good order by the regu'ar interior ad
minillration of his kingdom.
In a word, I do further declaie and en
gage mylelfin my own name, and in my
quality above mentioned to occasion to be
every where observed by the troops en
trusted to my command a good and exa£t
discipline, promising 10 treat with mild
ness :md moderation all well d
ful-jefts that may appear peaceable and
fubmiflive, and to apply force only against
such as (hall be guilty of resistance or ii!
will.
It is for these renfons that 1 require and
exhort all inhabitants of the kingdom in
the strongest and moll earned manner, not
to oppose the march and operations of
the troops that I command, but rather to
allow them free patlage, and all such good
will and affillance a* citcumflances may
require.
Given at my hend quarters, at Cob
lentz, the 25th July, 1792.
Charles William Ferdinand,
Duke of Brunfwick L.«nenburgh.
Foreign Occurrences.
P A R 1-s', July 15.
" The French Prince: have formed a new
33fti 1e at Coblentz, in which are now con
fined seventy-seven persons, fufpefted oi
infidelity to tliefe worthy promoters ol
peace and good order. One of the person'
in this baflile is a traderof the city of Nanci
who came into one of the nearer French
towns in the course of hi» bnlinefs. A monli
v. ho knew him to be a member of a popu
lar foctety in his own towa, invited him tc
walk in the territory of Treves, w here lit
was arretted, carried before the grand pro
voft Priennean, and committed to prison
upon proof that he had averted, that king
might be made for the people, but no peo
ple could ever be made for a king 1
IVarfaw, Inly 4. The Ruffians Uport" ta
king poflefiion of Niefwics, instead of fulfill
ing the terms whicii tiiey themselves hail
held out to the gaiVifon, gave a loose tc
every species of barbarity, spreading pillage,
[leftruciiori, arid de*th among the defence
lefs inhabitants. The 1 olihi commander
upon this immediately dispatched an ofiicei
to the Ruffian general, proposing a ftlfpen*
ion of ho ft ilities for a limited time, thai
luring the interval a stop might be put tc
the effusion of the blood of To many citizens.
Die Ruffian commander in chief, however,
refilled a truce, on pretence that he had
express orders from his sovereign to efface
.lie very traces of the new Po'.ifli conflitu
tio i, adopted 011 the 3d of May, 1791,
* Vienna, July 7. The treaty is ratified
with our court, by which the king of Sar
dinia accedes to the league between Prussia
and Austria, againff France. By this treaty
die king of Sardinia is to furnifh 7 battali
onsof infantry, 2 fquadrona ofhorft-, and 5c
artillery men, a* auxiliaries from Sardinia.
Coblence, July 8. The Prufflan troops are
arrived here. The son of the king of Prus
sia came is the day before yeftcrday. at the
head of a regiment of Huflars, about fifteen
hundred ftrcng. It is supposed to be the
fineft regiment in Europe, being compofec
entirely of men fix feet high. The next
day arrived a body of chafleurs. These
handle their carabines with such (kill, dial
often at the distance of <00 steps they will
hit a crown piece with a iingle ball. Theii
discipline is mod terribly severe, an idea oi
which may be gathered from what pasTed
yellerday. A PrulTian soldier ventured tc
make some difrefpeftful remarks relative ta
the war against France, before four of his
comrades. Two days after a subaltern of
ficer was informed of it, and related the
circumffance to his superior. It reach'.v
the Duke of Hrunfwick.—He wont fuffet
philosophers iu his army—he condemned
the soldier to die. lie was fn*t, and over
his dead body three of his comrades receiv
ed 100 lathes, for listening to his discourse
without denouncing him to his officer.
Paris, July 18. Marshal Luckner is flill
here. He demands immediate reinforce
ments to oppose the prodigious bodies oi
troops, which are rapidly advancing to the
French frontiers. He afl'erts that Francc
has not more than 6i,000 men in the three
frontier armies, and that the combined ene
mies will soon fhevv themselves eßo,ooc
Itrong.
PHILADELPHIA.
September 19, 1792.
On Saturday evening last arrived here,
from Offend, the (hip Baring, capt. Tin
?;ey. ThisvefTel brings European accounts
Sown to the 3d of August. It was said at
Dftend, at the time capt. Tingey left that
port, that business in Paris was entirely at a
(land : all the (hops and flores were shut,
and upwards of two hundred thousand ci
tizens of the city of Paris were under arms,
determined to defend themselves and their
liberties to the last extremity. Every.de
partment was furnifhed in the best man
ner with cannon, military (fores, and pro
vilion. No particular accounts are received
relative to the marquis de la Fayette fur
ther than that lie was at the head of the
army on the frontiers.
Extraß of a letterfrom Bojlon, dated Sept. j.
" The administration of the federal go
vernment has not been so universally pleas
ing to the great body of the people, as its
interelted partizans have continually repre
sented it to be. Its influence has invaria
bly acted as an opiate on all free enquiry
into the latent springs of its motions, and
the press has been silenced on that head,
wh le the moss fiilfome panegyrics have is
sued from the polluted font of adulation,
in its praise } in a word, the language has
b;en exhausted in terms of the bafefl servi
lity to decorate this political bride. It ha»
long been the opinion of many that a free
examination ot the meaiures of govern
ment will have a tendency to preserve the
conltitution of our country from change,
and ensure an adnvniftration of it upon the
fame principles that gave it exigence ; but
this only can be accoinplifhed through the
medium of a press unihackled byitrinflu
ence, and conduced to that end!"
Notwithstanding the continual puffs in
the l.nglifh papers of the enviable and un
rivalled situation of Great-Britain, and the
deprefl'ed Hate of France, it is remarkable
that every ship, from Britain and Ireland
is pouring in upon us hods of emigrants,
while those continually arriving front
France bring us few or none ; a decisive ar
gument that the common people at large
are much more at their ease in France than
in Britain and Ireland.
By a public communication from gover
nor Telfair to the repfefentatives in Con
gress of the slate of Georgia, it appears
that it will require one million of dollars to
be af'umed on account of that slate, to co
ver its Hate debts.
It is a fact, perhaps not generally known,
that the late captain John Paul joties, at
the time that he was attempting to fit out a
Uttle squadron during the late war, in one
of theyorts of France, to cruise on the coast
of England, was much delayed by neglecls
and disappointments from the court, th it
had nearly fruflrated his plans. dunce
one day threw into his hands an old alma
nac contain.ng Pear Richard's Maxims, by Dr.
Franklin. In that curious afl'eiiiblage of
ufeful inflrttftion a man is advised " if he
wish *s to have any bu fin eft faithfully and
?xpeditiouf!y performed,to go o.i it himfelf:
otherwise, to iend."—Jones was immedi
ately (truck, upon reading this maxim, with
the impropriety of his pail conduct in only
Ending letters and meflages to court, when
ie ought to have gone in person. lie in
[tantly set out, and by dint of personal re
presentations procured the immediate e-
of the squadron, which after
wards spread terror along the eastern coast
of England, and with which lie so glorious
ly captured the Serapis a;id other British
(hips of war, returning from the Baltic.
Ingratitude to Dr. Franklin's maxim, he
named the principal ;hip of his squadron
after the name of the pretended Almanac
Maker, Le Bon Homme Richard, Father Rich
ard.
" It gives us great pleasure (fays a Bos
ton paper) to find that the patriotic Jef
ferson has becomc the object of ceniure,
as it will have a happy tendency to open
the eyes of the people, to fee the llrides of
certain men in power, who are wishing to
turn every Haunch republican out of office,
who has di cernmg to lsen their arbitrary
measures, and houefty fuflicient to reveal
them.
From several symptoms it appears that
the old republican spirit of America is re
turning in full force upon thoje parts of the
United States where it had been rather ob
scured for some time part by the art> of a
rifiocradcal fophiflry. How the "Gazette
of theUnitexl States" will be affected by this
change, a ffTort time will determine Some
think the Printer will be served much in
the fame manner as the fox served his fleas
and vermin—he is said to ha\e funk him
felf gradually into a pool of water with a
wisp of ft raw in his note, the vermin ail the
while crawling up as the fox immersed his
carcase, till at length Reynard gave them
the dodge, and left them to fhilt for them
selves !
" England at present (fays a letter from
that quarter) is free from invasion or
threat, but disturbed with internal com
motions. It may seem strange to tell, but
Paine's Rights of Man have produced all
this. A proclamation to suppress that
work, and other means also have been tri
ed : but proclamations and prosecutions
will only tend to haflen the dilfolution of
those political trammels, that have held
mankind in a bondage of thought and ac
tion too long. Mr. Paine's profecutiot) is
on the eve of commencing; and I believe
its process will be short. There is an
parent disposition in ministry to be feverjß
but under that veil, I guess I may venttM
to fay, there is a real inclination to
contrary; for the friends of that woifl
compose a very refpeftable majority of till
people of England. It is to the
of the court he is a fore scourge ; and the
people begin to fee the gross impofitioni that
have been praftiled upon them, and with
refentinent. It is now re
ported. that a change in the ministry to
take place immediately. The particulars
of the ins and outs are not publicly known.
The lord chancellor has lately resigned.
I his, of itfelf, will produce some change."
" Forhiately (fays the fame letter, dated
July 18) a union of parties has taken place
in France, that lefferib the hopes of her ene
mies and gives encouragement to her
friends; the want of which union has hi
therto kept alive the torch of civil discord,
and spirited up her fugitive miscreants to
excite the aid of German and Pruflian mer
cenaries; to complete the deftruflion of her
fabric. But scarcely has the m.nd time to
rsileft at large upon her fituat:on, beforePoland claims our thoughts: Emerging,
but lately, from a (lute of vassalage to thai
of freedom, (he it seems, lias excited the
enmity of Russia's haughty despot; who
now wages war aga'mlt her, to extinguill:
that ray of freedom, reflefled from the al
tar, which Poland l aifed in Warsaw. It
seems hurtful to her fight ; and 1 hope ir
will dazzle her optics with its splendor and
its consequences till (as somebody fays} hei
eye-lids can no longer wag."
Tlie celebrated Lulvara at the instance of
the English African company, for exploring
that continent, firlt undertook the Hercu
lean talk, but unfortunately died of a fever
loon after his arrival at Cairo, in Egypt.
To him succeeded Major Houghton, who has
now for more than two years been actually
engaged in travelling through the interior
of that hitherto unknown continent. Ac
cording to English pspers, the President of
tlie African company ha. recently received
dispatches from Major Houghton, inform
ing that he lias discovered a city not men_
tioned in any hiltory, and unheard of thro
the medium of tradition. He represents it
as infinitely larger, and as containing more
inhabitants than any other cjty at present
cxiftinp in the world, bur the people even
there, as well aSin every othef part oi the
:ountry, he describes to be in a fiate of
Jkrrnfs barbarism, and trading chiefly in
Slaves, of which it is the great mart.
" From the best infortnation that can be
had (fays a tetter from Havre) France will
have to cope with an armv of at lead two
hundred thousand ir.cn of the combined
forces. General Luckner has demanded a
reinforcement of one hundred and thirtj
thousand men, without which he ha de
clared he caryiot ait even 011 .he deferfive.
He has aifo proposed to the Afiembly, fron:
motives of the molt urgent ilecefiity, thai
the generals lhail be permitted to inflic!
punishments without court-martiais."
The well-withers to France and her re
volution cannot but express their i egret
that their periodical writers, and in gener.;
all those who call thenifelves the defender;
of the liberties of the nation, had not beei
a little more circumspect than openly tin
avow their design of d.fieniiriating the prin
ciples of French liberty through Europe,
and by thus influencing the opinions of other
nations, encourage them to (hake <n Ihe
yoke of their exifiing governments. More
reserve on th:« ftibject would have pre -
vented those pretences now m.ideby dmoil
all trie courts of ! urope, and even by met
republics as Switzerland, to ast ag.lnftanr
a (Til I in overturning the new coidtitution
The present National Afiembly are now
convinced of the .ety of fvich con«
dust, but too late to prevent the holhie o
perations of the court ; of \ icnna, Benin,
Turin, &c. Their prcdecefiors thoughi
the fame way, but if liiev venture;; tc
repress the eiiuilons of these writers, the)
would have been arraigned at the tr-bun;;
of the Jacobins for plotting against the li
berty of speech and writing, and pronoun
ced enemies to their country
[_Leyd Cazctte.\
Towards the latter end of .stay hit t; r
ministers of the two courts of Hungary an:
JBrnffia tranfinitted a memorial to his Da
jiifli majesty's minister of Hate, relative tc
the affairs of France requiring the accef
(ion of Denmark to "he combined force o
king*, in order to restore what they cal
the deranged government of France, an;
particularly for the following obje£K
ift. To fettle and retaliate the emigre :ec
French princes in their former ri;;i —
2d. To m ike geod the claims of the i ,
upon Avignon and otficr places in i nee
taken from him by the National Afiemnly
and, thirdly, to reltore the rights of monar
chical government in France, qualifi d aiu
niod.fied to the liking of the combine*
powers, in conjunction with the king of the
French, when at liberty, and the legal ; epre
fentatives of the nation. —The l>.uu(h mi
nister's answer to this memorial is datec
June iff, wherein ne informs the above
jrlentioned ministers, that his mijefty, the
king of Denmark, cannot agree to become
a member of the concert, from the conside
ration that Denmark had already acknow
ledged the constitution of France, since 11
was avowed by Louis XV I, and that there
fore there could be no reason for pretend
ing to avenge the cause of him who believes
liimfelf free and fatisfied with the limita
tions of royal authority, which he had a
dopted and received without complaint-
Another cause of reftifal are the commer
cial connexions between France and Den
mark, which it was apprehended would be
iii/ringed, by Denmark making herlelf 2
party in the combination againli France.
It is mentioned in a London paper, by
one of the last arrivals, that the en' pref; o!
Ruflia has agreed to add eighteen tnoufahd
auxiliaries to the army of his Apoftolicai
mnjefly (the king of Hungary) in order tc
act in concert against France.
The temper and politics of the people of
Scotland fee 111 to have undergone a remark
able change since the conclulicn of the war
between Creat Britain and America. Du
ring the whole of th'ar war. the Scots were
exhibited to the world as the timid tools of
royalty, the bettors of tyrannical conquest,
, and the sycophants of power. That charge
ought more justly to have been confined to
'The few who were employed among them
by the court to mislead and mifinform the
nation. At present the Scots rank amongU
the fird promoters and friends of liberty in
Hurope. Their exertions to procure an a
bolition of tile (lave trade have been unpa
ralleled, and the cause of France has 110
where found more (incere well wishers, or
a public that has been more profufe in pe
cuniary contributions to aflilt in establish
ing the liberties of that country 011 a i'ure
basis.
A fleet of fix or seven fliips of the line
were preparing at Toulon the beginning of
fuly, with a view, it was said, to bombard
Triede, an important Austrian commercial
port on the C :lph of Venice. It was
thought not improbable in France that
Leghorn would fliare the fame fate, as it
was in 110 (late of defence to refill such an
attack.
London papers are received by way o'
New-York to the Bth of Augud. French
accounts by this arrival fay, that the Mayor
and forty-eight didriftr. of Paris hpd peti
tioned the National Afembly to declare,
" that the king had forfeited his crown,
and that, a miniltry be elected, into viiofe
hands the re'.m of government (hall lie en
trusted until a national convention (hall
have adopted definitive measures.'.' This
demand was referred to a committee ex
traordinary —a decrte had pafled the a,T n
b!y unaniinoufly about the fir ft of Av ,:r ,
that it was expetfed would deiol 1 the
camps of the emperor and the kirg of Frrtf
!ia, almost as soon a . ti'ey were fl in
fiance. By this decree every 1/ .er or
soldier of the enemies armies deijertiug
from them, and appearing at a French mi
litary poll, or before one of the constitu
ted authorities, or before a French C't'zen,
is to be received with fraternal afFccUnn,-
presented with the national cockade, peti
tioned for life, and their pensions after their
deaths to be continued to the>r widows—
further particulars on this lubject in our
lh?Xt.
About the 26th or 2-th of July, a parto!
the Auiirian forces attacked tti? French
I amp at Matiide The advanced guard oi
iiie fit i:cli, confiding of ("coo men. was at
tacked by iocco Alidrians ; the latter ol
whom were beaten oft the field after 1< fiiig
zoo meg. killed, a great number prisoners,
ino the chief of their baggage taken by the
t tenth.
By the lad accounts from Port au Prince,
,ve lean>, that the mulattoes had all com;
II nnder cap'tulat'Oii) but that the bia'cks
vvi 14 not yet differ the proprietors of edates
0 take ooffeffioil of rhem, altbo' they have
jgreec! tofunufh the whites with all tht
applies they require.
\_French Hifpanio'a.~\
ft trail of a ItU'f Icm Cayfs, dated Augujl tR.
•' Referring to my lad by capt. tttes, I
mi no'.v sorry to inform you that, since Ivs
Jeparture, the political situation of affairs
n theifiand has undergone a molt unfor
:u?iate change. .en. Elanchela'nde, it is
1 jpofed, encouraged the negroes who
„ ; re in a date of infurrertion , they confe
ittcntly descended from the mountains, and
ciliedmaay of the inhabitants, and burnt
lianv valuable estate . The troops and
nhabitanps immediately ass inbled, to the
• iimber'nf 1300 Or 1400, under the com
mand of general Bianchelande,and attacked
:lu'in, but unfortunately were entirely de
t aced with the loss of 7 officers and about
00 killed, and a great number wound
;d. This iinexpe&ed defeat obliged the
• lanters to take refuge once more in town
aid encouraged the negroes to revolt, to
he number of about 2coo. They have
•iiico burnt and dedVoved ne.T one half of
he plain. Finding themselves entirely maf
:er ,of the country, they have now made
ii opofitions of peace, which are, freedom
o all who are in a date of infurre&icn, and
Les Platoons (a delightful coifee country in
:he mountain) for themselves. Whether
ir not these terms will be acceded to, I can
lot pretend to determine—lf nor, heaven
knows what will be the consequence—
ihouldthey be granted, the entire infurrec
aon of the remaining negroes will inevitably
ollow. I therefore look upon every thing
i> certainly loit. I am forrv the imme
liate departure'of this vefl'el will not admit
us my entering into particulars."
Authentic Utterfrorn the Marqvis dcConooKCet,
in Paris, to his Excellency Cuunt D'/lraiida,
Prime Minifier of Spain
" At the moment that the friends of the
Conditution were threatening Spain with
the eftefts of their arms and conrage. at
the moment that the torch of war wa
kindling on the frontiers of both empires,
his Catholic Majedy has raised you to the
Miniltry, and offered us the branch of Olive
for a signal of pettce.
" Liberty having had you for an admire
during your disgrace, will now acknow
lege yon for one of her defenders against
.uperftiti -n and despotism. Thed'eftroyer
of the Jesuits will be I l.e enemy o all kijul
of tyranny, Behold him armed with Her
cules's club, in a country iiifefcled, above
ail others, with the mod (hameful preju
dicer, I Methinks I fee Hercules himfelf
cleansing the Augean Stable,' and erulhing
under his foot that vile Canaille, who, un
der the names of prieds and nobles, were
the ulcers of dates !
" I envy you your situation, and T flioukl
envy it ltiflniore, were 1 not also employed
in flmilar purfutts in my own country ;
were! not, as representative of the firll of
nations, bu.'ity employed In exalting it to
that height to \vh cl) it has a claim, and in
making the fccpters of kngs bend beiore
the organs of the laws ! — ouare now the
executor of the will ofthoie philosophers
with whom you have lived, and ihe (hade of
d'Alembert hovers places of your
abode.
"Asfirft miiiiller in a court where
obedience to a minister was always habi
tual.and is no.v become a duty,' you wi) 1
teach all Europe, that the greaieft fervic.e
which can be done to kings i to break
in pieces their despotic feepters, and to
leave them armed with noihing bat a good
ConM'tution, by which, as only the rirft
servants of the people, they may occupy
that place winch they ougnt to till for their
happ:nei"s and ours."
Paris, July 17.
Thefollowing E <tra% cf a lettet (dated Saratogd
tynn s, Augu ■ 23) appears man Albany f up, r.
" h* 1 ! IV:v Voti 1 : Lik - s
Ontario, L r ie, &c. and returned b>* way of Buf
:al«c\ reek. The Indians from Lower-: ana
ja, I'omc si wofthelix nations, th Ciuppcways,
Ouoways,Hurons, Potoways &c. aie afiembled
■ 1 rcad■ at Drt.c;: :.r ! the Maitni towns, to ast
nl iilitv a ..-■.if .he United States. The prof
f>c6l of a ) . sc« this fummcris very faint, if
nay jud,;e fron) apparent and ptobable circum
[lan.ct ; notwiihflaiidtng the negotiation carrv
nc on by way of the fix nations, whom the Sr
-tetaiy at war has employed gs mediators. Gap.
Henry and the three Indians, difpatclied by Gin.
Chapin Irom Buffaloe Creek, with a oielTag to
ihe Sbawane< s, have proceeded on as far as De
-11 oit.- —Col. Brandt's fori previous to his fnthet's
return to Philadelphia, was pone off with a ban
ditti of Mohav. ks, to join tbehofiile Indians, hut
he Col. has difpatclied a messenger to b: ins him
back. He is aifuredly a fiiei.d to the United
States, aed is (horlly 'of t off to fee the hoflile
tribes. But how far his and the influence of
the few friendly fix nations will extend, among
a faviage ba.iditti, eager after plunder and ram
p nt after blood, 1 Hi all have undetermined.—
Ihe Shawanees and Dela'wares are much exal
perated at the Senecas, in coriiequence of Com
plantei's people {routing with tome of the troops
unucr Lieut. Jeffers ani killing tour of the lat
ter, unless he Senecas make them fatisfafti
tin, their arms, it is said, will be turned againfl
therti. Should this be the rafc, God only knows
h confeqnences—our frontiers in this state will
[land but a narrow chance.
*VI tint k it ill policy to endeavor to spread
:'.,e f< at of war, which inevitably will be the cale
provided_:jic Six Nations openly declare ihcm
r ivfS for the United States. I'he forces can do
hf.le againfl so numerous a race as they will have
:o contend with, piovided they do not remain
leuter. .
"Had fuca meifuresbeen taken laQfummer,
is these, an am cable tieaty might have been forin
:d ; but their l'uccefs lall fall has much tan fed
hem in their own felf importance."
Original Anecdote.
A speculator in a neighbouring city, hav
ng some spare money, by h'tn, observed to
1 friend of his (a jolly Irifhmau) that he
lad concluded to purchase a coach by way
>f realizing the cadi, is it was an old faying
tliat money had wings and might fly away,
and therefore he would makefure. of it in
time—Arrah, my dear, said Teague, Review
er if money has wings, a coach also has wheels !
To the Editor of the National Gazette.
S I R,
YOUR known impartiality will lead you
:o publiAi the following letter in your in
dependent and ufeful paper—Democritus
s equally entitled with Momus to your at
tention.
To the Honorable TIicMAS M'KeAN, Efq
Doclor of Laws, Chief Juflice of the fate pj
Pcnnfylvam'a, &c &c and Chairman if ttn
Coimriittee ofCorrefpondence.
S I R,
ALTHOUGH 1 have not bee„n so favour
ed as to he thought of ftifiacnt cotfe
juence to receive a circular letter from you,
jsing, probably, supposed not to be a lead
ng character, or, perhap , being supposed
:o differ from you hi my political creed,
:iot being entirely orthodox, I cannot but
think myfelfequally entitled.with any ivfu
■utial charafler, to fuggell to you my opini
:>ns.—Perhaps no one, who has had the//o
lor of your particular address, feels a greater
plenitude of gratitude than I do, lor the
Zealand difntereftednfs of your commit
tee in favour of the people's rights.—To
Hep forv aid at the critical moment, when
every thing dear and valuable was at flake,
to hazari evefy thing which regarded youi
fame and year interef to proteit the people
from oppreflion, jr. ail instance of P.Mat,
virtue, alinoit unexampled in the history oi
our times. —The risque and the danger tie
iignate the real patriot, arid true patriotism.
•vhencver and wherever met, meritsjlu
pl.iudits of a generous people : mine -flial
i;e given to you, tho' in lisping accents
eou d they flow like a torrent and inunda't
every heart with grateful veneration, the)
ould be but a small tribute for the might]
fen r—Without party views, or ivdiiidi.alin
terefls —without other motive thatii furt h,v,
for your country, you have boldly fteppce;"
forward as the champions of an opprelied
people, and have figualized yotir.'elves iit
the cause of humanity and freedom —Penn-
fvlvania, nay United America,\\ ill ever re-*
vere the action—an action which will be
as deeply engraven on the hearts of her
citizens, as the memorable achievements
of the famous 7V//in behalf of his opprelied
Switzerland, or the magnanimous refin
ance of the patriotic flampd n againlt regal
extortion. —Our clif*a!ed ttute required the
hand of afkilfulphfiaerrl to restore her vigour
—the analogy between the body-politic and
the body-phy!ical, made the f.itne remedies
which would r.pply to the disease of the
one, apply equally to the malady of the
other—without calling in ether aid, you have
thefulleft resources within your own pow
er---let the indication; be whatever they
may, whether to give or diminish the vigour
of the political fyfteni, yonr (kill in the sci
ence of healing will direst you to exhibit
bracers, or draw off" the peccant humours, as
tliepulfe may direct.---Should surgical as-,
liftance be neceflary, in cafe of a mortified
member, a fractured limb, or contused
head, the Knife aad the fah> are within your
own reach, and you can amputate, reduce or
trepan, as the cafe may require, ihould
the laloiir of tVniifylvania be too seVere, or
too long, likp a si. lful accoucheur, you can
ilv to the affifiance of the forccpi or the crot
chet, and by a coup of skill speedily put aii
end to her as well,, as your can labour —
This has continued so long, chat I much
fear, uiflefs'you are relieved, your vital
pcuver will be spent. and ail irrecoverable
dsliqiiiuiri will be the conftquence Fa
tigued and exhausted with th>? weight of
care and folicjtudt' for ti'.e restoration of
your patient, for v\ hich, as often happens,
your reward may be ingratitude, you
ought to be permitted to reft from your
troubles, and once more repose in ease and
security on the downy o"f liberty. I
hope it is nearly made iip to your mind, for
Ihould your watth'uliiefs contulue much
longer, it may, alas ! instead of a deliqui
um, terminate in a delirium, or what is
nnre to be deplored, ail incur ible insanity.
\s 1 wish to throw my small mite into the
common flock, that you may be the sooner
difchanged from your hard duty, 1 will fug
geit to you the following named gentle*
men, as representatives for this state in the
Gongrefs of the United States, viz.
John Smiley, James Hutchinfort, Alex;
1 Dallas, John Barker, Edward Pole,
Alex. Boyd, John iM'Cuflough, Blair M'
Clenachan, Pnilip Pancake, Edward Fox,
•\dain Foelker. Robert. Whitehill, Robert
Smith, (hatter). Locality has been kept out
of view when this ticket was forming—
Though I am a citizen of America, I am
aifo a citizen of the world, and think man
kind ought to be viewed on the univetfal
scale of philanthropy and citizenfiiip ; it is
therefore of little importance to a hue phi
losopher, whether a man be an alien or a de
ni.sen ; a Ch'tiefe or a Japanese ; 3 Ruffian
or a Briton, if he discover- an outrageous zeal
for our country, tie Ought to b- received
into her bosom ; for I am always disposed
to believe that sincerity and real ajj than ast
proportioned to the violenc oj a man's protrjfatiens. »
Belides, the fame fun which iliim i.iei us
(heds its influence over rhe world ; and the
lamenat>ire which gaveu" being, brought a
citizen of another clime l.kewife into ex Hence J
and (hall we as freemen be niggards of our
bounty, and diflribnte it only to the home
ly foils of our own country? Forbid it li
berality ! Ttiat the labours, fir, of your
committee,may be speedily terminated,and
that the fun of freedom which you intend
again to light up,may dispel the dark clouds
of ignorance and tyranny. mult be among the
fincereft prayers of every true friend of hi#
country.
With the profoundeft veneration
and refpeft, I have the honour to
fubfenbe myfelf your, as well as
the committee's devoted lervant,
DEMOCRITUS.
Bucks County, Sept. 8, 1792.
To the Editor of the National Gazette*'
THERE being good reason to suppose a
fecutiqn will be instituted again II the printer of
the Gazette of the United States for certain defa
matory charges in some ol his la e papers, it,
would be peifcfl trifling in you to take any rio
lice of the accusations* bioughtby Catulus (proba
bly the fame with 7he American) as far a they
lefpefct vourfetf. The charge of being penfion
e'd by the Secretary of State you have solemnly
denied, and theaccufatiori is as fa> as ever fiom
being piovtd, the long talked of dotumcnts be
ing yet unproductd. Diteft charges of this na
tare ought to be proved in the nioft direfcl and posi
tive manner : certainly they are not proved to
:he fatisfafction of the pub'ic by vague infinuati
f>ns, dark farmifes, inconclusive deductions, or
even by "pre umptive fails and clrcumliances."
As the Kational Gazctie has ever profi dcd
iifelfopcntoall partiesand influenced t>v none,
it will lie upon the calumniator of Mr. Jeff-rlcm's
political charatlei to prove that the National Ga
zette ha been partial to one fide ol the quellion
by re filling or nip letting original communicati
ons from the other. If 'his cannot be done,
what grounds aie rhere for furpol,r>, the Editor
to be bribed or penlfoned by the Secretary of
State? Bribing, or pensioning a man to print an
in.partial, free paper 15 (co ablurd an idea to hava
the lcalt weight with a rat ousl mind.
ONE OF THE PUBLIC,
Philadelphia, ief. 17, 1794.THE SPECULATOR.
EGG'd on by hope, from town to town he flew.
The soldier's curse pursued him on hi* waj,
Care in his eye, and anguiih on his brow,
He lecm'd a lea-hawk watching for his prey.
With Toothing words the widows mite he gained,
With piercing glance wa ch'o milery's dark abode,
Filch'd paper ltraps while yet a (crap remained,
Bought where he mull) and cheated where h<
cou'd.
"Vast loads amafs'd of scrip, and god knows vfrhat.
Potoffs wealth feem'd lodged within his clutch —
But wealth has wings (he knew) and inftan;
b'JUght
The prancing (teed, gay harhefs, and gilt coach,
One Sunday morn, to church I saw him ride
In glittering fiate—alack ! and who buc he —
The following week, with Madam at his fide,
To routs they drove-—and diank Imperial tea.
In cards and fun the live-long Jay they spent,
With songs and smut prolong'dthe midnight least
If pUys were had, to plays they constant went
Where Madam's top-knot fofe a foot at leaC.
Three weeks, and more, thus pafe'd in airs o:
state,
The fourth beheld the mighty bubble fail—
And he, who countless millions 010 n d so late
Stopt (hort—and clos'd his triumphs in a Jail.
Sept. 17a
—— 1 ' -*■" —
POLAND.
Declaration of the Citizens of the Grand Dxeby oj
Lithuania, (in Poland.)
WE, the citizens of the Grand Duchy of Li
thuania, aflembled at Grodno, atHidted by a com
jnun ihare of public calamity, and united by the
lame sentiments, make th s present declaration
before God, our country, and all nation.*, as i
true itatement of what pafles in our province.
£fter so many of abal'*ment, degradation,
weakness, and calamity to which ourcountiy wat
reduced, having at last discovered their lource, n
the efiedts of our former Governmeni, scarce wer<
all our efforrs turned towards its improvement
scarce in that laboiious and arduous undertaking
had we surmounted ail the oottacies whiehr preju
dice, felf interest, pride, and haoits ofarrarthy,
thifw in the way of our legislation ; and knowing
that the bouring tf.'es conlidered our gov
ernment, fubjed bv irs former nature to periodi
ca! revolutions, as the occasion of disturbance?
and comm tions, which alfedled them : fcarct
then hac we eitablilhed a firm and latting gov
crnmcru, tree from ail the inconveniences ol cite
tors, and calculated fur our happiness, as well a
the tranquility of our neighbours, whrn, alas ! thi
pr.de and reftleffuef* of a tew guilty citizens, en
vious o 1 "* the common pynfperityy unable to with
Ihe general Dpini .no ti.e whole country
whivh ill agreed with their anvb*non and lult o
rule, fooir found itieans to gain a foreign power
ana in contempt of the nation, the kin£, the le
gal government of the rtj üblic, coohtt ng in th
D-ct, compofVd of a doubfi number of Kepfefen
taiives, 'uiurping to themf*>ves (stew individuals
the name and nghtof a whole nation, while the;
cail the aliiitance of a for-ign power, to save IVjci
ty from a supposed davgCr, they
the moit cruei ft-ab to this very 1 b*rty, ana t<
„ their coun .ry .• Thev attempt to ltifle the fcnf
, of,a wJAIe naiion,-1«> c >ntrt>uj Q" opinion, to rob
by! 6n*T7lirce of foreign ums, to bring back intt
then ruined country ail the foi mer anarchy weak
ness, and luojodtion j and faftly perhaps', to occa
fion for ever the (Kthud'i n'cJt Poland.
Already has oar c isntry relt the effect i
of their deftgns.' The P.ultian armies, accordinj
to the declaration <>t her MajelVy tht Empre!s
were only to olfF?r fuyport to the freedom an<
sense of the nation, which are j-riigned in her dr
clarauon as the immediate objects of her concern;
yet having found our whole country
convinced, and attached to its present form o
government, inltead of refpeding the will of a na
tion, they still support the ambitious fchemfcs of ;
few tyrannical minds, they insult the intention
of the Emprels, expressly announced in her dec
laration, and viola'e the public as well as the in
dividual freedom of the nation. The Ruffiar
commanders issue orders and fuirmonfes for thi
citizens to meet and join them, threatening
with the molt rigorous p-ioJecutions on persons
and property ; itiil no honest citizen has yet ap
peared in the Ruffian camp j except thole cari iec
in forcibly and violently by the ColVacks, all fly
their approach with horror. These are ine mean:
by which this supposed confederacy is iormed.—
Our towns and villages are filled with blood anc
tears, by the violence of the Ruffian foyers ; w»
hear r he groan-, of our fellow citizens confined
and impriloned, whose only crime is their Iteadi
jiefs ana lit m adherence of their oath and conftitu
tion. The Ruffian troops spread wide, terror anc
alarm,forcing the inhabitants to give up, with thi
accepted government, their own welfare; and tha!
of their posterity 5 they drive in their train thou
sands of men and cattle ; in a word, they ruir
and wade, as they proceed, our whole diflriits anc
In the more diltant parts, not yet in
vaued by the Rullian armies, we fee the road'
crowded with fugitive citizens, who, with 1 thei.
desolate families, flying to avoid ihe abhorred con
federacy, as well as the barbariiy of the RuHin'
soldiers, have relinquifiied their homes and for
tunes, and prefer all the hardlhips of a voluntar
exile, rather than submit or accede to the fata
a£t, intended to deftioy our sacred constitution o
the 3d of May 179-1.
In support of this constitution, all of us offei
personal defend and innumerable contributions $
we have not seen any of fueh ready offers mad
in favor of this detested (ham confederacy, which,
fttmiug to dazzle us with delusory privileges
would deprive us of the dearest rights of a man
and citizen, and prepare the ruin of our country
Various ate the events and chances of wai j
whatever may be the final iflue of this most un
joft attack and invasion of our republic, we the
uoder written, penetrated with the Cnceieft love
as oar country, firm in our fidelity, puie IT > ou«
>earts and conlcience, being driven from "ur
horres to eicape the oppreiiive hand of the enetn.,
and preserve our honour and liberty, and aiiem
t-led heie, we do in our names, and tnat of thou
l »nds of our fellow citizens [who are at thia pr--
Icnt moment, either surprised and detained by fht
Rullian army- or are abandoning their houies and
rortunes, and flying before the enemy], call to
God# the avenger of wrongs j we appeal to ail na
rious and governments $ may they lee the luttcr
•.ngj> to which we are so unjuitly exposed j by wha,.
we encounter, let them judge, how dear our ne«.
government must seem to us, and convinced of it.
beneficial tieftgns for tht country, bow ltiuch w.
value it, and wish to preserve it. At lead, le«. n>>
the world ever accuse ua, or our posterity reprbacn
us, that we have been abjetl in misfortune j an^
• orfeited that claim of prosperity tO which this
excellent constitution did entitle us. Should even
•ur just and sacred cause be disregarded and tor
faken by ail Europe, nay, should it even ftnk, un
der the ill success of arms, we reeling like tru
citizens, in ths midst of a defenftve war, and fur
rounding dangers, tru fling folcly to our virtue and
resolution, which no power is able to subdue, de
clare, and proCCfl before the universe, and in tht
face of the oppreflive force of the enemy, tha
having freely and willingly adopted the form cf
government 3d and Ma
J 791, an 4 haviln^Twor^^ to maintain 't, havin t
like wife by delegates [chosen unanimously in th«
Dietines] addrefTed his niajefty, and the Hates al
fembied in Diet, exprefTmg our thanks and appro
bation, and thereby mofl solemnly teflified ou:
public confenr, and laflly, having devoted aheauy
-ur lives ?nd fortunes in defence of this confluu
tion, so in confluence, faithful to our oaths anu
conviction, f:om which no power can a!bfolve o?
deter us, we are determined to preserve the farm
inviolate, as well as the laws subsequently enact
ed, and guided by our gracious sovereign Stani
slaus Auguflus; Supported by the justice and innc
cence of our caufeywe are ready to meet all ha
zards and dangers In caf any of us flvould ever,
by foreign arms, or domestic treason, be compel.
Jed to sign an adt contrary to tnis our present
declaration, and the new form of government:
we publicly and previously declare it void and null,
announcing and acknowledging this alone as oui
fixed resolution, never to relinquish the independ
ence of our republic, our public and private lib ■
erty, in a word,the constitution of the 3d of May.
and its sub.sequent laws, full of hopes that the if.
uflrious provinces of the crown will join, and a:
ftienuoufly fopport, this our determination.
Dated Grodno, July 19, 1792.
Follow the numerous fignctures of citizens ol
ill ranks.
Prices Current at Philadelphia.
[Dollars equal to 100 cents.]
ASHEb Pot per ton 90 Dels, to 100 d,
Alhes Pearl 137 — —- 140.
i>«con flitches per lb. 7 ccnts.
Bacon fiiouldcis — 6 do.
Sees wax, per lb. 25 cents to 17.
iirandyy Coniac, pergl. 1 dol. 2oe (
Brandy, common, 1 dol.
Butter, n keg*, per lb. 9 c. to io.
Beet, Boston, per barrel yd to Sd.
Country ditto 6d to 7dv
Coais, per bushel, 20 c. to 22
Uufiet, per lb. 18 to 19 c.
L'otton, per lb. 26 c. to 4.0
Uheeie, country, per lb. Sc to ioc»
English 19c.
Cn.colatc, 17c to 18c.
L'oofifh, per *.wt. 3d. 50c,
Cordage, American, per cwt. 7d 67c* to&K
Duck, Engliftv No- 1. per yd. 28c.
1 cert iefs for every number
Rutiia, per bolt nd. 33c.
Duich tail duck, ißd. tc 2od.
S. ii cl th, Bolton No. z. per yd. 30c*
Fltxleed, por bash. 85c to 90c.
Kiax, per lb. n to 12 c.
flour, iupeiiine, per barrel, jdol. 13 c.
Common, —* 4 dols. 67 «-•
Burr middlings, belt, per brl. 4d.
Ivleal Indian 2 dols. 52 c.
Rye 2 dols. 40 c.
Ship fluff, per cwt, 80 c. to 1 dol.
Gin, Holland, per cafe, 4 dols. 67 c.
Ginseng per lb. 20 c. to 24
Grain, oaiky, per buJhel, 90 c.
— bell- shelled, per lb. 3 c.
Buck-wheat, per bushel, 40 c.
Indian-corn, 50 c Uats 18 c. pr. fcufh*
Rye 47c, W eat 93 c.
Herrings, per bane! 3d.
Hoops, hogshead, per M. Tsd.
— -Canels, to Bd.
Hams, per lb. 8 c. t» 9
Hemp, imported, per ton, 120 dols. to 146 67c.
American, per lb. 4 c. to 5
Hides, raw, per lb. 9 c. to 11
indigo, Carolina, per lb. 1 dol« to 1 dol. jo c«
Iron, bar, Lgr ton, 82 dols. 67 c.
Ca lan^Sj, dols. 47 c.
N aj i'ods per ton 96 doU.
pig, per ton, 24 dot*, to 26 dols. 67 •*
Snert, per ton, 173 dols 33 c.
Leather, per 10. 14c. to 17c. 20Cj-
Logwood per ton 24d.
Lard, h< gs, per lb. 9 c. so 10
Lead, in bars, per cwt. 7 dols.
In pigs, — — 5 dols, 33 c. to 5 dols* 67 c.
Red, 6 dols. 40 c. to b dols. 67 c.
White, 10 dols. to 10 dols. 67 c.
Macke.ei, bett, per obi. gd.
Madder, bell, per lb. i6c. to 20c.
M vrtle wax per lb. 16 c.
iVlolaiTes, per gal. 44 c. to 50
Nails, Bd. 1 >d. i2d and 2Cd. per lb. ioc.
Nutmegs, per lb. 7 to 8 dollars
O i, Linseed, per gallon, 65 to 67 c.
——Olive, 87c.
—————per cafe 2d. 50c.
Sweet best in baskets, 12 bot. yj.
30 fldfko, in boxes rod
• " «—Spermaceti, per gal. 48c.
■ •—Train 24c. to 27c.
——Whale, 24c. to 26c.
Pepper, per lb. 37.
Pimento, 16 c.
Porter per cask, sd. 33c.
Porter, London, per dozen, 1 dol. 60 c,
American* do. x d. 4 c, to 1 d. Cc c #
Hitch, per barrel, idol. 73 c. to 2'doli.
Pork, Burlington, per barrel, 1 idols to II d 33c.
Lower County, do. 10 dots.
Carolina, do. 9 dols.
Raisins, Mufcatclla, per box 3d.
■ Jar do. per jar 2d. 50c.
- Sun do. per keg 9:.
Rice, per 112 lb. 2 dols. 50c. to 2 dol. 67 c.
RoGn, per barrel, 2 dolls. 33 c. to 2 d 015.67 c.
Rum, Antigua, per gallon, 1 dol.
Barbadoes, do. do. S3 c.
New-England, &c. 67 c.
Jamaica, 1 dol. j8 c. to id. 22 c.
Windward lfland, 83c.
Salmon, per bbl. 6d. 50c. to 7d.
Scantling, heart, pei M. 23d. 33c.
• ■ ■ Sap, Bd< to 8d 67c.
Shingles, 18 inch, per M. 2d. 33c. to 2d 67c*
z feel, s<l 33c. to 6
— -3 feet, drefled, 13d.r0 13d.
Salt, (Aurn) per bulh?l, 24 to 27 c.
Cadii, — 23 to 24 c.
Li lb on, 25 to 27 c.
Liverpool, ■ ■■ 29 c.
Skins, Deer, in hair, per 'b. 20 to 30 c #
Red, ditto, ■ 26 to 33 c*
Snake-Root, per lb. 20 c. to 4.2
Sugar, Havanna, white, per lb. 17 to 18 c«
Brown, per lb. 11 to 12c.
Muscovado, per cwt. 13 d. to 15 d.
Lump, per lb. 24 c.
Loaf, finale refined, 26 c.
Loaf, double ditto, 36 c.
Tallow, refinad, per lb. 9 c.
Carolina, new, 2 oo's* 7 c. to 3 doH.
Carolina, old, 2 dols. 7 c to 3 do.
Tar, New-Jersey, 24 gal. to the brl. 1 dol.
Carolina, 32 gai. 1 dol. 33 c. to 1 dol. 67 c.
Turpentine, per barrel, 1 dol, 67 c. to 2 aoi».
Tea, Hyson, per lb. 93 c. to 1 dol. 2$ cj
Hyson skin, 53 c. to 67
Souihong, 50 c. to 93
Congo, 43 c. to 50
Bohea, 31 c. to 33
Tobacco, James River, beflr. per cwt. 3 dol-. 6®
to 3 dols. 73 c.
Inferior, 2 dols. 67 c. to 3 dols.
Old, 4 dols. 67 c.
Rappahannock, 2 dols. 50 c. to 3 dol
Coloured Maryland, r dl. 33 c. to 3 d
Dafk, 2 dols. 40 c.
Long leaf, z dols. 40 c.
Eastern Shore, 2 dols. to 2 doU. 23 c.
Wirre, Madeira, per pipe, 176 di. to 226' dl. 67c.
Liffcon, 120 to 126
Tenerilre, per gal. 63.
Fayal, ■ 52
Port, per pipe, ii3doh 33 c.
Sherry, per gal. 90 c. to id. 20c.
■ * 1 1 1 1
SOCIETY FOR ESTABLISHING
USEFUL MANUFACTURES.
NOTICE is hereby given to the Stockholder!
of the Society for eltabli/hing ufeful manu
faccures, that the annual election for Diredtois ui
the said focicty will be held at the C ourthoufe ii
New-Ark. in the county of Essex on the fiift Mon
day in o£rol>er next, between the hours of twelv*
and two in thu afternoon of the fame day.
A. MERCER, Deputy Governor.
New- Ark July, 17th 1792.
PLANS
GF THE CITY OF WASHINGTON.
FOR SALE BY
MESSRS. Dobfon, Young, Ciuklhank, and
Carey, in this city.
Sept. 15. 6t.
~B O O K S,
Printed and fold by
MATHEW CAREY,
No. 118, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
1. American Mufjum, from its commencement,
in January 1787, to June 1792, ir. eleven volumei
Price, neatly bound and lettered) Seventeen dollars
and three fifths.
This luork which is noiv Conduced on an tin
proved plar, containing the heft picces publijbcdjh
and again# the proceedings of government, will in
found to contain at leaf} as great a variety of poli
tical, and miscellaneous essays, asar.)
ever pubiijhed in An.erica. Perhaps in no one wort
arefo many valuable docum. Nts rejptfling the hift>-
ry of this country, collected together. His excel
Icny the President of the United States, has de
clared of it, that u a more ufeful literary plan
has never been undertaken in America, nor out
more deserving of public encouragement-" The
fubfeription is tv * dollars and a half per annum
Gentlemen in the country who xuifh to be fupplicc
with this work, are reqacjled to give rommijjion tc
friends in the city to j'ubjeribe Jor and receive it.
2. Smith's letters to married womeu % on nursing
and the management of children. ** JVe ?ecommtr.d
ihefe letters to the perujal of those to 'whom they a>e
Particularly addrtjj'ed.' Monthly Review. Vol. 38,
Page 101. Price bound five eighths of a dollar.
Duncan's elements of logic, three fourths of a
dol ar.
4. Beauties of Fielding, 50 cents.
5. beauties of Blair, 50 cents,
6. Ladies' Pockct Library—containing :—Mi r i
Morels Ejj'ays \ Gregory's Legacy j Lady Pen
nington's advice ± Marrhionejs of Lambert's ad
vice j Swift's letter to a newly married lady ;
Mrs. Chapcne on command of temper j More's fa
bles for the ladies Price 676.
7. Smith's History of New-York. Price a dol
lar and a quarter,
7, Elements of Moral Science, by James Beat
tie, 1.1.d. f rofefjor of moral philojophy and logic
n the Marifchai College, Aberdeen—Price thre<
fourths of a dollar. Of this book the Critual Re
viewers (vol* 69. p. 6zS) fay : " JVe have feet,
nothing on these fubjefts morej>iain, more perfpicu
>j, or more genera ly ufeful.
9. Beauties oJ Po y P rice four fifths of a
dollar.
10. Blair's'Sermons,-- Price two dollars.
11. Neckar's Treatise on the importance *f reli
gious opinions. Price four fifths of a dollar.
12 Examination of the objervations of Lird Shef
field on American Commetce. Price t an very fine
paper i Jive eighths of a dollar.
13. The Constitutions of the fe-vera! United States ,
with the federal Conflitution, &c» Price five
eighths of a dollar.
14 M'Fingal, Price three eighths of a dsllar•
15. American Jell Book., three fifths of a
do liar.
16. Garden of the Soul, baf a dollar.
17. The Douay Tranjlation of the vulgate Bi
ble, in quarto. Price> e egantly cound and lettered,
50/2 —plain, fix. dollars-
Carey y*or sale, a large assortment of
books, European as well as American
which be will dispose of on the mofi reaj'-nab'e terms,
Country gentlemen, who favor him with commands ,
may depend upon being Jupplied in the miji fatisfac
tory manner. A iberai allowance to fucb as pur
chase quantities for public libraries, or to Jell again•
May 17. 6m. la.w.
Society for eflablifhin* ujeful Manufactures,
N r OTiCE is hereby given to the holders of
i ck in the /"aid society, that the following
arrangement has been made by the Dputy Go
vernor and Directors thereof, by a reloluuon of
ihe eighteenth day of May, 1792.
Tne second inftalmenc for tfte payment of (hares
in the flock of this (ocicty, may be made in the
following manner, viz.
The amount of !.h.e fa'd second instalment, be
ing 20 13-100 dollars each (hare, may be paiJ in
t.iree payments, on condition that ibe la«v j1 in
terest of 7 per cent, per annum, be calculated v
and paid with each proportionate part ot the said f
pa, meht, that is to fay, on or before the tnir- if
tsc>itb day of August next, the sum of 6 71-100# y
with the addition of it cents, being the interest
of one month on 20 13-500 dollars—on or be
fore the 13th of September next, the sum of 6
ii-100 dohais, with th« addition ot 8 .:erKS, be
rrg me in te re ft for one month on 13 42-100 dol
ar«—-and on or before the 13th ut Oct oer next,
the sum of 6 71-100 dollars, with the addition of
4 cents, being the intereii on the for one
month* The laid pavttfents are tote ma eat the
following places, viz. In the city of Philadelphia,
at the bank of the United States—ar New Brunf
wick, in New-Jerf. y, to John Bayard", «>r J hrc
Neilibn, Efqrs—and in the city ot New-Y -k, at
the bank of New-York, 01 either of ihe 1 . i
places, which iriay be moll convenient to the
'tock holders.
b> order of the drre&ion,
JAMES GR.FI ITHS, Clerk.
July 24; tf.
FOR SALE,
ABOUT 100,000 acres of Land, Iving near
Whitettown, in the 'Tare of New-Y->rk, on
the worth fide of the Mohawk river,
Nobleborough, and Will be fold either in parcel*
or together,- as may suit the purchasers.
N. B. The above tract of and is of the firlt
quality in the state, chiefly timDer-ed with beach
and ma'pli, well watered, and contjin-s manv mill
leafs. The peculiar advantages of this tiacV, li u
ated within a few miles of Whiteftown (.vtrch'
contains upwards of five thousand inha > ta : s)
*'th an e*tfy and cwriv anient water carriage tat
Schene£Vady* Albany, and New-York, m.'ke ic an
<.bje<tt for any pei sons inclined to fertle it, and ren
der it an extremely advantageous parch ale for'
per fort mrlinea co realise their money in land of
an encreafrng valoe. The whole trail or a"ny part
of it, will be lold very low for calh, or tor part
cash, and the remaining payments at distant pe i
ds. Enquire at No. 229 Queen-ftidet, near th©
11,-market New-York.
July 19.
Terres a Venclre
Dans un pa'is bien peuple
S AVOIR, foixante cinq mille, trois cens, fottf
ante et quatorze Acres, en une feale piece,
vians le canton le mieux peuple de la Caroline Me
ridiofiale, leDiftti&de Ninety-Six. Ces terreg
font fituees dans une contice agreable, et falubre*
<>u les fievres font inconnuesj a environ vingt lieuea
•it Colombie, la Capitate, et contigues ala ville
de Cambndge, ou il y a College, et C« ur fuperi
eure. A environ douze lieue?, il y a bon?ie navi
gation ; et il" eft tres probable, que dans quelque
terns on rendra navigable le Grand Saiude, riviere
qui arrofe les terres memes. El les font agreable
mcnt diverfifiees de coteaux et vallons
piopres a ia culture d-u tabac, du coton, du ma'itt,
et du petit grain jet dont une proportion consider
able fe pent aifement eonvertir en prairies fertiles.
11 n'eft peut-etre gueres possible de rencontrer une
pareille piece de terre a vendre dans aucun autre
desEtats Unis jet pour les conditions de
on les rendra tres commodes.
S'informcr a Timpiimerie de la Gazette Na
cionale. Sept. 5.
LANDS for SALE,
IN a well fetrled Country* SIXTY-FIVE
THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AN5>
SEVENTY-FOUR ACRES OF LAND, in one
body, in the most populous part of the state of
South-Carolina, in thediltrid of Ninety-fix---It
is situated in a fine healthy climaf, free from fever
& ague,about sixty miles from Cohimbia, the feat
of government. The land is contiguous to the
rown of Cambridge, where are a feminarv for the 4
..iftruftion of youth, and a superior law court. It
13 at present within about thirty-five miles of good
navigation, with a probability of having the river,
called the Great Saluaa, that flows alonjj one fiie
jf the land, made navigable. The land is beauti
fully diverfified into swells and vales, and is per
-1 edt 1 y well calculated for the culture of tobacco,
cotton, Indian corn, and final I grain } a great
proportion of it may be made meadow ground,
Theie is not, perhaps, such a body of land, focir
cumftanced, for sale in any other of the U. States.
The terms of payment will be made convenient to
the purchaser or purchafeu. Apply to the Printer.
August 29. jawtf
PRIUTED BY
CHI LD S and S WAINE,
AT THEIR OFFICE NO. 209, HIGH-iTREET /
NEAR FIFTH-STREET, I
(