Vol. I.
FOREIGN NEWS.
\_From F.ngiijh papers.
Saturday latl arrived at New iork, the
fliip New-Ycrk, capt. Smiih.from Lon
don, lull from Plymouth, after a paii ge
cf thirty days By this vefTel we h,.vc
received the following intelligence :—
LONDON, Augutt 12.
SIX thousand Hcffiars are to join th?
confederates on the I'rench frontiers.
The army of the emigrant princes a
mountsto upwards of thirty thousand men;
the greater part of which is still cautoned
in the principal ty of Leige.
The Eng'lifh ai Geneva and Lausanne,
are at prfeent very numerous.
By the official dispatches r ceived yes
terday, jfrom the Britifli tr.inill.er at the
comt of Lisbon, we learn, that the Portu
guefc have joined thelengue against i' ranee.
Thcfamt accounts mention, that every
hope of the queen's c nvalefcence war r.t |
an end ; and that a place wis preparing!
for her reception, where (he i 3 to be con
fined for life.
SUSPENSION of LOUIS XVI.
By an express r ceived in town ycfter
day evening from Pans, we learn, that oh
Tliurfday the motion for the suspension of j
the king *.vas'difcuiTcd, and there appeared
against the unhappy L-'UiS a great majori
ty. It was then proposed, th the fliould
bt prosecuted as a traitor to the Hate. A
long and warm debate, or rather conten
tion, nft-cd ; after which, it was deter*
mi:,; i, that this proportion, with the mo
tion tar Ms fjfptnilon, fhouhl he received
i!,. t hc fullowi.ig «'ay,for final deciiioa ;
v/lun it was txpc&ed he. would be for
mally f»<p» iideri- "I'd ti.e excrcif- of the
e*e< itive power uwcfkd in the hands of
commilTioners.
This may be confidercd a3 a prelude to
greater enormit lite royal family,
it ripped of their guards, mi-ll f.il an tafy
facrifice to the violence of the Jacobins
—and France, to attone ilie mighty guilt,
deluged in blood.
Lord Hood's fleet it ordered into port:
it is conjectured, the appearance of this
squadron in the channel, had occaiionei!
jealoufiei both at thc courts of Paris and
Peterfburgh, for whose fati>fa£iion its dif
mantlement is determined.
It was currently reported on Friday ii
the city, that would be regicide Peti
on had beet* seized by a number of indig
nant citizens, and hanged at a lamp-iron
but we are sorry to find upon enquiry
that his execution is deferred until tht
Duke of Brunfwick's arrival. The repon
added, that the Jacobin traitors were dif
penlng, and this we have the happmefs tc
announce, is a£hially the cafe.
Pei.Jon and the Jacobins at his tail, be
gin to tremble at the confi quences of roy
al proj-hanation, and the lad sanguinary
""expreffions of the Parisian aflaffin, v/er;
merely the effe&s of despair. Thefediti
oris recreant and regicide dare not remain
in Paris an hour after the approach of tht
imperial and toyal armies.
A million of litres are said to be there
ward offered by the emperor and t'.e king
t of Prnllia, for the apprehenlion oi Petioo
alive, and five hundred thousand far cfthei
his head or his decapitated trunk.
The elector of Sasony has joined the
confederacy against France.
Prince lCaunite, by the last accounti
from Vienna, was not cxpe&ed to recovei
from the effects of a severe attack of th" 1
gout in the stomach.
The scattered remains of the tegicid*
Ankerftroem, were on the 23d ult itoler,
from the different places wheie they wen
ex poled
A renewal of hostilities between tin
Turks and Ruffians, is by no means iinpro
bable ; the former having already brokr
teveral articles of the peace, to which they
■were obliged to accede,and are reported tc
b: determined to perlht, in thoi'e refrae
By P. FR E In' EA U : PuUiJhed Wednesdays and i aturdays, at Three Dollars per annum
SATURDAY, October 6, 1702.
tions. The empress is, we believe, too
powerful and too much elated by victo r ,,
to l'uffer a breach of peace to pass unpu
nifhea.
Major Lr.mbro, the Ruffian pirate, in
the Mediterranean, has sent a tnanifefto
from the Archpelago, to the > leveral am
bafiadors at Conllantinople, complaining
of the Ruffiffn general'# having made
with the Turks, without rewarding
iiim for his fervicc. He swears to con
tinue hcsliilities the Turks, but to
refpe£l a'l other European powers.
1 he Britilh Greenland fifhtry has, for
f.sine years, been greatly upon the dec'ine
In the year ! 787, the number of veifelr
amounted to 204, at present there art
only 101.
Atiijuft 1
Advices were this day received from
France, by Their,fifon, the eminent French
in Tihan , by which we learn that the ca
pital was in a ftote of the utmoil diflrac
Lion and confufiori—the king has been bc
lore the fictional assembly, and by them
ns ?or:v !—The Swiss guards cut to
pieces for their loya.ty in making a lafl
attempt to rcfcue their foverei.;n from
fi'.ch indignities. The queen and dauphin
threw thenifelves upon the me cy of thi
-.ationaJ assembly.
Several of the king's friends have been
:tken ; of whom si e ol:x. were mur
lered.
All the fheps shut—and al! communi
st ion by the pod as much as possible pre
:lu led.
We dial! now fpon fee what effetils 'he
joalled freedom and cor.ll'ttttion of 1 rance
vill produce
A letter received from Dover this morn
ng, merit ions,, that since Saturday lafl up
vard* of iwo hundred pericti3 nave landed
here from France, and that every packet
;rings a great number of personS, all giving
rMiil melancholy accounts of the lituation
11 which tliev left their unfortunate country,
August 16.
I'he following letter was sent yesterday
from the Secretary of State'# office to thl
mailer cl Lloyd's coffft-houfe
WpitthaU, Wed- Morn. Jug. 15,
" Mr. Attll present. his comp'iments tc
Mr. Tayler, miller of Lloyd's ci.iree
louse, and acquaints hint, agreeably tohL
equeft,that a mtffenger arrived this norn
ng from Paris, with the nev/s of a com
motion 011 Friday, in which the mob kill
ed the greated part oi the Swiss guilds,
who defended the Thuilleriej, as also fe
deral perfor.s of diilinclion, amongst whom
was M. Clermont Tonnerc, and d.ilroyed
ihe furniture of the palace, and all the out
bail :ings adjoining. At the beginning ol
'he tunult, the king and queen, and the
r oya! famiiv, cfcaped across the garden to
'he national afiefnbly, in a rcom adjoining
to wit ch ihey continued till Sunday,when
•l,e mtffenger set out. Ort Fiiday the :>(•
fembly decrced, that the executive power
was withdrawn from the king, and that,
for the preient, government fhou'd be cr:-
trulled to ministers of their own nomina
tiou. Thu: t' .• king (hottM be 1 in
some place of fairty, ami the civil lift no
longer continued That the primary af
fembiifs R'ould be conceived from the 26th
ii,;i in ordei' to appoint a national con
vention, to meet a< Paris on the 2tjth oi
September, to decide ultimately upon the
forfeiture oi the c>;>wn, ai'd the moele oi
eftablilhing au executive power."
After the levee yeitcrday, the king.held
a chapter of the order 01 the Bath, which
'.vas attended by hs royal hi; hnefs' the
duke ofYork,lii" Ralph f:r Willi
ar.a Kowe, lir William Fawcitt, aiwl fir
George Howard, w' or. his mv.jeity invest
ed the hou. William Augustas Pitt, bro
ther to. lord Livers, arid commanJer of the
10th regiment of light dragoons, - nd tin
hrji. juliri v aughan, brother to the earl 0;
Liiburn, with the order
T' Svi:s guards, when attacked b)
the nob weie nor above 700 in number;
their cucroy at leait 100,000 } nearly the
whole of the jwifs were killed, as the mob,
after about a thou and f tluir own body
had faiien, brought twelve pieces of can
non, loaded wits* grape shot, to bear upon
the Swiss, with which they were fo»n
mown clown the few who 'survived the '
/laughter were taken to the bar*of the af
fembiy ! a decree for their re'eafe was im
mediately paflcd, and tliey were declared
to be under the fafeguard of the law A
decree t.f ne ".f.itio.i a. m the lata war j
miinfter wa-j then ptffiVo ,ir havtnj; oufed I
. 4 O
the turn lit, by his neglsdt to remove the
Swiss guards from Par
The decrees whicji the national afTcm
bly 1 lavepaiTedto allure the German tul
tilers todelert, 6iTefing every man agratu
j ity of fifty livres of ready money, and a
i nenfion of one hundred livres a year during
life, with many ether encouragements,
h.ive it is fa id had no small effedt; and there
h*ve"becn such deicrtior.s from the Auf
trian troops, that private letters mention,
700 men went off in one night from one
f their sr.'ies ; and unle ti; had been
"counteracted l.y an early movement of the
troops, 7coo would have gone over to the
French next day
The French rebels have evacuated Cob
; icntz» and defpairgo with them.
Augufl 18.
morinntj a cabinet council
'■tb held, at which Mr. Pitt, the duke of
Richmond, Mr. Dundaf, and lord Hawktf
ntry afiiPcd. The obj£i of this meeting
<va* the situation of affairs in France. A
nefenge , with dispatches to earl Gowei,
dad been frit off previous to the affem
| Ming 1 the cabinet.
The of the day, and which
chiefly pp " fs the attention of the public,
are' tliat tfte q ieen of France has beer !
?nurdered ; that the populace broke open J
the pv foil o' Or! id us, and very deliberately
put all the prifo :.?vs to death ; and that tVe
duke of Ur'ank.-icli baa been defeated in a
pitched basle « ith La Fayelte, with the
l'.'fs or four or live thousand men killed,
and three thousand priloners, besides all
his ammunition. Thcfe accounts, howe
ver, want confirmation, though given with
a dcgiee o l Confidence in some ot the
morning prpers
The duke of Dorset, accompanied by a
French ecclesiastic of diftinition, who ar
rived at Nerot'» hotel, on Sunday last,
had yesterday a long conference with the
minißer, at his hou r e in Downing (Ireet,
the situation of alfairsin France,
frncc D' fling the decreecf the mational as
sembly for suspending the Ling.— Mr.
P'tt's advice hitherto, has been to remain
a fpeitator only of the French dilputes,
and in this, r.o doubt he ha 3 met the con
currence of the foyercign and the nation ;
but iince the dethronement of the king has
taken place, a change of meafurea, it is
probable, will, fooper or later, be the con
feqr.ence.
j u At Boulogne, a man has been seized
with a'lettef upr. !;;:n, said tote written
by th' hing <••'•' »li • I'rsiKW to the Aufcrian
arfsiy :v t !, V, v; : !: <\a> the deduc
tion of i S fov.er' ign i,-. the prcfent tem
per of the p.op : e
The horrible exceffri of Paris are ha d
Inconceivable. — Culto.n has reconciled us
to fuvvey the deaths of civil contest with
' out the indign.nt agoi>y we feel at delibe
E rate nsaffacre. Bui every fibre of the
hcai • tl 1 rilist3 at the recital of infamy dif
-1 graceful to humanity, and much more to
sex. Thet?n perof the Par,Han women
e is that of tigers, or rather furiea—The
conquered Swiss, leading to prison, were
v torn by them from the military who guar
ded them, and in delirious barbarity «ut
to pisccs.
c The Swiss ptiards who survived the maf
'sct'e, are all detained as prfoners at the
>- f Palais Bourbon, until a court martial shall
have decided on their fate. The null, ere
7 of the Swiss guards will certaiidy induce
all the thirteen canton* to join the league,
5 land declare immediate war agauill France.
Numb. 98.
The advices from Fiance, brought to
town yesterday evening;, express, tli t the
king had on Monday (Ignificd to the Na
tional Assembly, his wish to comply with
the fentiincnts of the people ; and defi'red
to abdicate formally the crown, to whick
their confidence was no longer attac.'ed.
All that he further requeued was such a
stipend as tl.e nation fhonld not think ex
cessive for the support of his family. Re
tirement was the only hope they had left !
The afl'erfibly replied it is ltated, to hig
majedy, that the object exceeded their
powers ; that the refutation of the (late
nto its pristine elements, left every organ
zation with the national conv ntion, ta
ivnich the royal desire mult be refer
ed.
Paris is again in a (late of tranquility.
■To news of importance had arrival from
he armies, efceept that Mar(hal Luck.ier
lad, by a forti nate and well coatr ved
nanceuvre, furrmtrtded and taken $00
Auftrians, wit. 1 , 22ohorfu,and fix four
pounders. This- affair happened in the
oreft of Cancel. The Aullrians findinjj
hemi'elves overpowered, furrtndcred with
>ut making any refinance.
It s plain that the late outrage* in Pa
is were concerted 5 and it is very dubious,
hat the wretches who were activin t»eni
vere hired f>r the purpose ( What othef
neans. of livelihood indeed, have the un*
ortunate class of common p ople in Pa
is,lhan to c-X'll by the which their
es..ers choose to hold out among!! them ?
nde and 1 ommerce are flc-d ruin and
amine (lalk 'he streets in their roortf.
Befidcs the man feilo puhliYhfd by the
Duke of Brunfwirk with its iuppisment,
fee. a more txtenlive manifello is publi<)>
-d in tnames of»h? oalefad kij ,-i, the
ninmary of which is " The of Frr.:<c«
hall cluife ihe fr®ntiir town 'f h!s king
lorn, to v hie Ik he ffi.'j go ; the Duke of
ek (hall give him a guard, hefidcS
lis Mn.fon Mi iitaire, which (hall be redo
-co to hiin by the princes is big berj. —
rhe emperor and the k:iig 0! Prnfiii do
lot will tiiat the kingdom cf France it oyld
>e dilinembered in any of its parts not
will they intermeddle in the goverrm nt.
They will rcftore the king is liber'y and
ull authority, the miniiters to their <ilt rs,
>roprietors to theii property The depu*
ies to the firft and FeconVl legislature (lull
je tried. The National Assembly, and
he city of Paris, are answerable with their
ives and effects for the life of the kin;* and
:hole O' his family, from the dny of the
publication of this m. tiifeilo. P2very ;r,ari
ykerr with arir.s in his hand (hall be treat.
:d-as a rebel and tried by military law.
Every man taken, firing from his win-
Jows, or throwing lone*, (hall bi- put to
he fworj, and his house delfroyed and
jurr.t. We enjoin the national guards of
.he kingdom to pie erve good order, and
nake hem responsible with all adminiftra
:ors collect ivrly and individually, on theik'
i»ea and efiedts, for ail events. '
The Duke of Brunfwick and the army
: ke under their jirote&ion all in. viduals
uklto flaall i'eclare t}?« lil: c; . " '# L
Farther forbidden to the-army, to exeieife
sny ast of vengeance or jullice, without
bavin received order-)— The duke of
Brunfwick will take into his pay the regi
ments of soldiers who (hall declare for the
king. No pardon will be granted to any
perfoi uppofii'.g the departure ot the king,
and his going to any town which he (hall
hare chosen.
The brave marshal Mulachoiki, duly con
sidering the slate of Poland, and
h« ( cayfe as de'perate, ha 3 publiflied a fpi
vitcd manifefto, it) which he fubivitsto
jte divine justice th<- dtHink'S of hij eoun *
>)y, and the proceedings of those whofc
plesfitrc it hr.s bceu to do hurt t j the r»»
public.
Aujuil 2?.
On Friday night a council was held at
the Secretary cf btate'a office, Whitehall,
which fat three hours, aud at 12 o'clock &
special mt;iU»gcr was difpatshtd vritUircujinftrudicms from adn-.inidration to earl
Gower at Paris.
It is now pretty certain, that the result
ef th. council on/F rid ay night was to take
no part in the national disputes of France,
unlets it was rrfolvedby the leniflature in
that kingdortyte take away the life" of the
king ofFrance" 5 in which t:afe,*it is under
stood, that both England and Holland
would be ready to declare against the re
volution.
For the National Gazette.
Mr. Frf.neau,
T: IE subjoined address is, I find, in ge.
Ticrpl circulation throughout the Couniut ; and,
I thick, it ■will be Jerv'ueable to publijh it in
the city ; for ivhich purpose it is committed to
your impartial press.
I am, Sir, your olidlen'fervant,
o£t. 3, 1732. Z.
To the Freemen oj Pennsylva n ia.
r £ IHE present mode of eleding mem-
JL beis of Congress, which has been
introduced by the aris and perseverance,
of some ambitious chara&ers in the city of
Philadelphia, is calculatcd to lead you
into a choice of persons, for the guardians
of your political rights and interests, in
whom (as you have no knowledge of their
principles or their conduit) a well found
ed confidence cannot be reposed. While
the llate was divided into diitrids, every
part enjoyed a fair proportion of the re
prefentarion ; and every elector, from his
own observation and experience, could
estimate the comparative merits of the can
didates. There was little room for cabal,
Or fadion ; a combination of interests in
One quarter,could not defeat the choice o 1
the Freemen in another ; nor was it neces
sary to secure the benefit of de&ion thro 1
the medium of an odious comprornife, bj
which at a board of conference (that fata
market for the rights of fuffrage 1) the ac
ceptance of a stranger, whom you nevei
saw, or a tory, whom you never loved,
may be made the price and condition ol
the bargain.
In orJer, however, as far aS possible, tc
obviate the difficulties of the lituation ir
which we are thus involved, let us, ni)
fellow-citizens, not only freely propose thi
candidates, but freely investigate their me
rits. My present objed is to call your at
tention, not merely to names, but to chs
raders ; & in a concife,but,l hope, 3 satis
factory manner, to bring to your recollec
tion men and princip■• s, that ought to b.
forever dear to the whigs and republican
of Pennsylvania. The times are changed
it is true, but you are not changed wit!
th'-m. You fee elevated into great officia
diflindion, many, who did not dare to ap
pear in public view, at the period whic'
" tried men's fouls and an attempt i
now made to dazzle you with that blazi
of wealth, which the fruitful agencies o
the war, and the rank Speculations 01 th,
fuads, have mere mysteriously than honed
ly accumulated in the hands of individuals
But you are not by such circumstances tc
be awed into silence, or deluded into fla
very. The spirit of the revolution is no'
dead, though perhaps it fleepeth. Thofi
minds which the fp.'endor, the power, the
influence, and the corruption of the Bri
tifh monarchy could not captivate, subdue.
or contamii at , must be iu;... lor to th.
arrogance of an upirart arMosracy, th<
machinations of the inveterate fu. . :o in
depe dence, and the foothirt; 1 of thoU
crafty politicians, who aim at a monopo'j
of power.
-A 1 ttiis time J i.o not rr.enn to fcrull 'iiz£
the characters of the candidates who are
. feleded from thai class of citizen, wliich
'is denominated , The (Tcr.timai : of Penn
sylvania. The ticket composed by that
description of men, will i'peik for itfelf ;
and 1 think it of more importance, as well
as a more agreeable taflc, to point out t!,.
characters t!:at dclerve to be chosen, rathe,
than thole that ought to be rejected. With
the utmoi'l ucf-rence, therefore, I 1":r.;:
to your cor.iidcsv.tion. thefollowir.g rz-..v;;,
and the remarks that accompany them j
with this only hope, as the means of en'
fu.-ir,,; y i" appr-)bati.':i, that yju wiii
think and ad for yourselves.
Chants Thomfoti.
History preferts few charaders to our
obfe vntion. ifort deserving* of private
eftcem, and public-.pplaufe, than Charles
'I homso-:. A naiive of Pennfylvartia,
an ! quali id by an excellent education, he
ha ir-rc.-i) the age of manhood
before he became eminently ufeful to the
«omuiuiiity, as a fc.hokr arid a piiilgtfo-
plier. There are many Individuals wht
now enjoy the fruits of his tuition, in the
lo'iace of a relived,or the honors of a public
life. The record", of the various literan
and charitable institutions of Philadelphia
bear testimony to his zeal, liberality anc
abilities; while as a commercial character
he was highly esteemed and entrusted—
being secretary or adtive member of theaf
fociations oceafiona'ly formed bythemtr
chant 3of Philadelphia. His political re
putation rose with the dawn of the revolt!
t on. The quicknels of his perceptioi
enabled him at once to trace ail the confe
quences of the (lamp ait,. and the othe
encroachments of the Eritifh parliament
upon the rights and liberties of Ameiica
and his patriotism Simulated him to tak<
an immediate and adtive part in the oppoii
ti.in. From that hour until the
lion of the President of the United States,
under the existing government of the union
Mr. Thomson :s to be traced as a vigi
lant patriot, and faithful public servant, in
the minutes of all our meetings and com
mittees, on the journals of our'egillativ;
bodies, and in the archives of Congress,
Few men have beenfo much trusted by theii
fellow-citizens; few men have a greatei
knowledge of, or participate more in,theii
situation and intereils; and few men havt
been more fuccefsful in their exertions foi
advancing the happiness and'glory of thi:
country.
William Ftndley.
This gentleman's talents furnifh a them;
for applause throughout the Union. Edu
cated as a mechanic, his manners ami de
portment, though decent and refpe&abic
are plain and simple. The admiration ex
cited by his reasoning powers, fn the vari
ous deliberative bodies, of which he ha:
been a member, is equalled, hoe, ever, bj
the elteem and aftedlion, whuh his condtsdl
in private life, has impressed upon the mir.'
of every man who knows him. He fervec
Pennsylvania as a captzin in the muitia ir
the years 1776 and 1777* period c:
the inva'ion ; and his entrv upon the poli
tical Icene was in the charadter of Censor,
in the year 1784. Since that time he ha.
been constantly, and with great udtindtion,
in public view, either as a legifiato>", ai
executive magistrate, or a reprefentativc
in the councils of the Union. His con.
duA in all these stations has served to in
create the confidence of his friends, anc
even to command the approbation of hi:
enemies.
FreJcriii A, Muhlenlrrg,
Descended from an amiable, enlighten
ea and revered Oerman clergyman, Mr
Muhlenberg was naturally regarded witl
a favoraoie eye by our tellow citizens o:
that nation ; and it i: ccrtainly a fortun
ate ci re 11m(lanee, that the object to whorc
the attention of so important a part o;
the community was diredted, has proved
nimftlf capable to serve thi public, and
c'eferving ot the confidence of his country
In the year 1779* "*v»ien Whig principle;
warmed the heaits of the people, anc'
Whig politics controuled the operation;
of the Government, he was cledted 2
member of Congress ; and at the expira
tion of that fe; vice, he, was chosen ipeak
er of the general afiembly of Pennsylvania.
The event by which he was placed in a lit
nation to be speaker of the House of Re
prefentatives in Congress, will be comme
morated for the honor of America, as
as the Union la3s ; and for Mr. Muhlen
berg's honor, the conduct which he obser
ved ;n that arduous and important office
ought never to be foi rotten."
Wilkam Mcrtgomsrj.
sim P !e n "" t*:>--ifca«l manners,
domeilic habiis, an;' ;;n undaunted spirit,
mis gentleman combines a c mpbeent
dilpo it ion, an exte r;b v * knowieu y of men
and ti.mgs, and a liberal regttrj for the
honor an.! energy-of a free government
l ,:e eelcorated Pennsylvania Farmer ac
knowledges, in his letters, that he derived
great advantage from the communications
w.V.eh were made to hi:* by Mr. Montgo
mery, who at that time resided in the
county of Cheiier; and, indeed, the ab
horrence, with which be viewed the en
croachments of Great Brit.,in, together
with the natural texture of his mi,id,' ren
dered him on every occasion a zealous and
serviceable friend to the liberties and inde
pendence of America. A character of
this class could not fail, during the conttjl
to obia.ii the love and support of the Free
men of Pennsylvania.: and, accordingly,
Mr. Montgomery havin:< rece ved ihe
moil flattering marks of the attachment of
ii;s feliow citizens in Chester, was equally
ignored and e.m at'.ed by me ;n:,,ub!uu:u
of Northambeiland, upon his fixing his
abode in that county. He has be::i a
conspicuous member of our legislative and
other public bodies ; and was once elected
as a delegate in Congress ; but. declined,
for some domestic reasons, accepting
that appointment.
General Heifier.
On the military and political services
of Mr. Heilt er, no encomium seem s at
this time to be necefiary ; as, by a gene
ral concurrence of opinion he is feleftei!
tor one of the Representatives in Congress
Let it be recorded, however, as a testimo
ny of the perional elleem that the writer
of tliefe /ketches entertains for him, that
as an oilicer in the Militia of Pennsylvania,
his conduit during the war was eminently
ufeful to his country ; and that in the va
rious legislative departments which he has
filled since the peace, he has greatly con
tributed to the fame and proiperity, that
(he enjoys.
John Smiley,
If republican virtue, pure and inflexible,
has any, claim to our refpedt, the gentle
iikm at present under our consideration,
•nuft be admitted to a dillinguifhed rank,
among the candidates for political honors
V :ew him in private life, he is artless,
si lendly and industrious : view him in pub'
lie life, he is vigilant, firm and fagacions
To the insolence of authority anchthe en
croachments of power, he has offered ar
oppofit'on, uniform and fuccef-lul. -Tl.t
proprietary thraldom, with its feudal badge
of quit-rents and tenures, he lent an active
arm to overthrow ; whiie he joined his fel
low citizens to encounter tlie monarchi
cal outrages of Great Britain, with cou
rage in the field, and wisdom in the cabi
net. In the years 1776 and 1777, he fer
ved as a private in the militia; and con
tinued in '.hat i tuation during the moil
critical periods of the war. His political
career may be traced in the earliest volun
tary afTociations of the citizens, as well as
in the organiie ' legidative bodies ofthego
vernment. He was deputed to represent
the county of Lancaster firft asa member oi
the committee of conference, and after
wards as a member of the genera! afiembly,
When he removed from Lancaster to Weft
moreland, carrying with him the Lme vir
tues, he obtained the fame popularity ; an<
was likewise repeatedly chosen a rcprefen
tative from the latter county : and fine
hi* residence in Fayette, we find him iipor
every occaHon the choice of his neighbour;
as the trustee of their civil rights, or th•
agent in their 'perional t ran factions. I»
appeal s from this review, that wherevei
Mr. Smiley has been most known, he ha ;
i;een most esteemed ; ;nd were it not foi
the prejudices created by his patriotic
conduct during the war, his election vvouk
undpu tedly be unanimous. But, it i;
to be lamented, that there ftili exifti
a ig lome men, a fentimcnt unpropiti
uus to the vVhig of 1776. To such, how.
ever, let it beobferved, that Mr. Smiley's
eondhct arose from a'fenfe of duty, tn-ir
a leve of his country; that he who was an
ardent promoter of the bill for the gradual
abolition of fiavety, could not be destitute
jf humanity ; and that he who with esseS
con.enued for tne abolition of the ""tender
and the payment of the debts incurred by
government, could not be infenlible to the
importance of public credit.
William Irvine, of Cumlcrland.
. The principles and abilities of Cen. Ir
rine have been tried, as \vell'i:i the field a
n council; and his country has uniform!)
had occasion to be pieull-d with the objeel.
and the fruits of her confidence. He vva;
early invite 1 to a diftinguiflied rank, in rh?
armie: of the n i ted States ; and acquittec:
hnn)elf with i'uch propriety, that, while hi;
public ferviees commanded the refpe-a anc.
favor of government, his private conduei
conciliated the arfecticns and frienciihip 01
a. onnci hi;n. As a foloier, he was vird
lant, brave and enterprising : as a citizen.
he was patriotic, upright and liberal. I-ie
Knew how to enforce discipline without se
verity; and to render the operations o!
war compatible with the rights of proper
ty, and the calls of humanity. He conti
nued ill a military tation until the final ac
knowledgment of the independence of A
merica ; and, ever since that period, he ha
been employed in a faithful discharge of the
molt important civil offices, to which the
eheeni and confidence of his'fellow-citiiens
could elevate him. His conduct a., a dele
gate in Congress, under the late confedera
tion, was honorable to hiinfelf and ufeful
to the state ; and we mjy prefurhe that hi
merits have been equally regarded in tilt
leale of federal business; since we find him
at the present time engaged by Congress a;
a commissioner, in the arduous, conndentia
aiid important trufl of fettling the account
between the aa; on and its (.oultituent mem
bers.
Pettr Muhlenberg.
General Muhlenberg was deligned by
lure for the military fccne. Tho' born hi
Pennsylvania, lie was appointed !>y Virgi
nia to the rank of colonel in the troops of
her line, and afterwards created hrigadier
gefterai in the continental service. Ha
ying served through these gradations with
the highest honor during the war, he re
turned to his native country, by which ha
has been conltantly employed (with equal
reputation) in the offices of civil life ; par
ticularly as vice-prelident of Pennsylvania,
and as a member of Congress, under the
exiiting comtitution.
'Jonathan D Sergeant.
The political principles and conduct of
this gentleman are so well known, and, a
mong the genuine whigs of the union, so
highly approved, that I fiiould think it tin
leceflary, but for the form of my underta-
Btlg, to detain the reader with a recapitu
lation of his public services. His active and
afeful oppofjtion to the British encroach
ments, commenced in the neighbouring
,tate of New-Jersey., of which he is a na
:iv.?. He was then conlidered as an im
portant leader in the patriotic committees
ind conventions, that preceded the difTo
imipn of the dependent connection which
bound An\erica to Europe ; and in the most
critical period of the contest, he was an in
telligent, induftrioiis and firm member of
Congress. Soon after he had chosen his
Cefidence in Pennsylvania, he was appoint
ed attorney-general ; and in.that character
'which foine of the leading political law
yers of the present day were then afraid to
lutori) he acquitted himfelf with fit.-,-lity
towards the government, and with huma
nity towards the unfortunate objedts of
prt>fecutior» : But the talk was inconceiva
bly ai riuou) on account of the violence of
tile times ; for, on qlieltions of state, the
jiublic officer could no: expedt to discharge
his duty without incurring the hatred and
resentment, not only of delinquent indivi
duals, and their immediate friends, but of
the "whole anti-revolution fadtion—opulent,
powerful, and vindictive. The proof, of
the profeffional abilities of Mr. Sergeant,
are seen in his reputation at the bar, in the
iucc'efs of his and in the affluence
of his fortune. But the lass of- these ad
vantages has never elevated his mind into
i contempt for his fellow-citizens, nor al
tered those temperate habits and unaffect
ed manners, which at once deiignate and a
clorn a true republican.
Andre-"; Gregg.
Mr. Gregg is qualified by an excel'ent e
ducarioii to discharge the duties of politi
cal life ; and has, accordingly, been feledt
ed for that purpose by his fellow-citizens
of the diftridt in which he lives. His prin->
ciples, with respect .to the late contelt,
'.veo? those of a whig; and with refpedt to
the present gove; iment, are those of a re
publican.
Thomas Hartley.
This gentleman's political conduct and
character are lo y. ell known, that it seems
fnperfluoin to remind his fellow-citizens,
that he was an early whig ; an a'dtive offi
cer ; that his talents are refpedtable, his
manners cordial, and that he has uniformly
enjoyed the favor and confidence of his
neighbours.
John IV. Kittera.
Of this gentleman the most favorable
lentiments are entertained, and the belt ex
pecr at:ons are excited. Politically. he was a
whig, and is a republican ;—ProJeJiona/ly t 'as
he is Lamed, without pedantry, so he is
la/th/ul to his client without being faife to
his conscience ; a:; J Personally, he is diffi
dent, liberal, and .'incere.
John Barclay.
Mr. Barclay is a refpedtable merchant,
who, without claiming an ostentatious su
periority, is lurpalied by few citi
zens in a knowledge of the principles of A
merican commerce, in talents for bulinefs,
and in an induflrious attention to the du
ties.of public and private life. He was an
uniform and zealous whig. As mayor of
Philadelphia, devoting all the emoluments
of his office to the pui poles of Police, he
maintained an unprecedented degree of or
uer, peace and harmony in the city ; and as
a private gentleman, displaying an unaf
fected disposition for benevolence and hos
pitality ; he enjoys an uncommon portion
of the love, friendship and good wishes of
his acquaintance.
Having thus briefly reviewed the charac
ters of tliofe cand dates, whose fuccels in
volve', in my opinio;', the honor and inter
ell of the slate, and of the union, X leave
the fubjeft. to the consideration of my fel
low-c:tizens, who are certainly capable and
entitled to decide for themselves. They
will, however, permit me to remind them,
that the names which I have presented to
their view, are those Which were familiar
-° 'hem, as friends and affqeiates, in the
hour of danger ; as faithful ferjwnts, who
came to their affittance when the timid, the
slavish, and the wealthy fled. Such were
the men, whom you happily entrusted to
contend for the liberties of America; and
iiirely Inch are most able, and must be moll
desirous to cnenfli and protest what they
have laboured to acquire. It is time, then,
to be on \ our guard, to ro'ufe from ycurie
tnargy ; for, behold J the tories of 1776 are
the aristocrats of 1792 ! And every patri
ae usind ought to weigh weil this quef«tion, —whether those who then oppoHM o"ur
being free, ought no v/ toA>e entrtrted WiCti
the palladium freedom ? I'hey have
faiied, it i» true, in t . :i • ethirts to ;ceep n .
the Haves of Britain ; but, beware ! titet
they do not make u. llavea to themfelvss.
M E N T O R.
i—inrrT-a »-■— ■
To the Freemen of the Cor ty o/"P!;'a
delphia.
Fellow Citizens,
A TICKET is puSlirhcd forydiir conside
ration, said to be tbe i . fait of a meeting of u
ilumber of the inhabitants of the county, ba>
which in fa£t was determined b, a few, and
t'hofc from two of the smallest d finch in the
county. Many of the < le£lors knew not that a
meeting was to be held, and few of thoft who
knew it attended. The southern district, com-
P'ehendins iotithwaik, Wr>- l.r.oGii!;. -ic. .vas
represented but by two perlons. and the diftnt
o\el Sch-.tvlki I was ui. ou: a li: le vo :e. Ibe
upper difi'ict has for feyeral years pad exerted
itfelf to lb.- at mo tto . ive a rep.el; u.rsion *6
the county. The inhabitants fiom d)a;quar
ter generally appear in full force at t e county
uieetiiig, knowing that the proceedings oi the
meeting give a ca.t at the gencial election. shy
>£re the belter enabled to 'ppear at t erman
towni and give a complexion :o the represent i
tion, as they generally have htwfes —It the de
ciflonat Cermantown is to influence the general
election, we had b.-tter •.iihom turthei trouble,
y Id the right if el if.on to cu tletown sn.i
its neighborhood 1 Tire follow ng t cket was
proposed By fpme of the mo rdpectable citi
zens "of the county, viz—llobert Ha e, John
JLardner, W.lliam Robinson, un. I'homa
Forreil, and YVdham, W . Burllowi, and r is
hoped will receive the fnpporr of every inde
pendent cle&ur at the gt-neral election li ie
gifbtion is among the mo t difficult science*.
and icqubcs not only exieiXive iuloim.ition oi
ir„ n and things, but talents and capacty.you
will not hi lute a moment in g v/iig a p etc -
ence to the above ticket. Legillation (lays
Blackflone) r- the greyteft puwe: One man ' in
have over another;" let u then bew ire ho'.v
we delegate the important, the fjcred 'rail ;
a mm h real injury often aiites from igno.ance
as from deliberate villaiuv. Attempts have
been made, and no doubt will again be made to
kuUy lis into the adopi on o cc tun characters,
but'the fpi. it of freemen will never submit to
bt driven into measures by the malicious and dj
kenorable efforts of any aspiring -demagogue
wbat.-ver.
An Independent ElcSlor.
Thila. county, Oft. 5.
PHILADELPH I.A.
OcTOEfiR 6.
Died lately in Charieflon, General Mor
de ai it—and liner Mrs. Ann Timothy,
p: •» >rietor of the Sollth -Carolina Gazette.
M . 1 pillcr, the celebrated Engliih foot
trav.-lb.r, who is now engaged in ex
ploVing the interior df America, and means
to proceed, ifpollibie, from f a to sea. ar
fived at AugulErie in K..:t Florida about
the ift ot July, and requeued leave of the
governor to c <plore that province for .he
pnrpofe of botanical researches. Altluv
otherwise treated with ci -iity hl= reque.>
was reftifete und. preteiice of rig'd or
ders t« ftiffer no stranger to come there
except for the purpose of fettling under
the Spanish governm. nt.
The new fettlersib E tft Florida ( ay» the
Charleston City Gazette;begin to feel th t
fituatiou exceedingly i.kfome, from the
refiraints which are imposed on them by
the Spanish government, and to which •.he;
have been hitherto nnaccuftonied Moil
of them heartily wish themfeiveS biick at
their former homes. No person, thoii<.'!
a resident in St- John's, is furt'ered to go to
St. Augustine, without a pailport, in pro
curing of which it is not uncommon to
spend two or three day, beiide
or three dollars to thefcrwano for drawing
a petition.
The patriotic citizens of London ha e
entered upon a very l.Srge fubfcnpnon for
tile relief of the people of Poland, inhering
from the late invasion of the Kuffians.
Subscriptions were alto railing throughout
England with such success as to alfurd a
profpeit of a contribution becoming the op
ulence and dignity of England to and
a spirited people, flrugltng a^auilt. Ega! cy-
to recjive.
£A Rer/e'encativc in the Ccnrref. of the
Usv.ted States from Maryland (Mr. Mer
vsrj hartflg been attacked in one of the
/public pagers of that state on thefecre of
r opoolit'on to certain measure s of Con
grrffs, that gentleman has publifned hi
cteffencc in the Maryland Gazette of the
2Stli tilt, from which the following s ex
tracted .j
" It is the most lacred pr'nciple ofov.r
cor.ftitntion, and the palladium of all free
government, that the people flinuid l)afe be
tV.yfd out by their repreici">t:uivt •••. On a
projitHltion in congreis t<> refer to the fe
cretafv <>,' the treasury torepurt tlu ai.'ount
of the funis of money wanted, and the njan
•Kicr ; t- vvhtcb it lhutiid be railV. tl i »b;ec>fd —
i" that the right of the reprt iVntatives to
/originate a tr.oney-b'U or tax, wa~ the foul
J,, their exigence—that it was iixomniuni-
cable ; that we could not even make such
a reference to the senate (part of the legi
(lature.) That to give the piirfe-ftrings of
our couii.menuinto the hand- of the exe
cutive, who held also the ("word —who were
divided from us with filth caution'by the
co ititution, a.id to :::e treasury, that part
of the e -cecutive poflelTecl of the only mpa:i -
of corruption) was treason again it the con
tutioii, aid filicide with re(pe-> to onr
felves. That, although we should Hill have
to pass o.i the tax-bdi which he would ori
°*l n a r ,e, vet renfun would tell us, and expe
rience had Ihewa lis, tint tire .vas only no
minal ; for, Wheb once the filbje«st was re
ferred. he might keep it until a majority
vas ready to receive it as he pieafed ; ant!
to so late n period, that anxiety to get home
would prevent ill opposition, which those
,vho have served in legislative bodies are a'.!
but too well aepized of; that when it
made its appearance it wou'd be as it had
b; n j vou mufi take the fecretary'j plan,
)]■ nf will no: be relpoefible ? how can he
be refpo ;ib'e for the sood e,.'r,-l • ot a pi ui
which iie u (approves; and that he ail 'p
proves o f * yours is evident trom his havm:.;
uropofed another— And admitting that vou
■Quid convince the whole hotife that
hi-, plan was wrote, and th't von come
oropoe another that was u .'demably bet
:er. vet as it be committed to tile e»
c-cution'of the secretary' who, on trie re
jection of his own. would feel b'S reputa
:ion at ilake to di'grace yours, no man in
his friifes would ri!k nis credit 0:1 the event
—so that, in fr.fi all oppoi'/'em "■ oil Id be as
t had been impoffl&le ; and tf'e were act u-
Fiiiv more infigaificant, and in a left ebg >bie
ituation, than the old parliament: oi Pari;,
:d up toregi'ter "he edict -i of the court,
"or they were never b'amed by the peop.e,
vvno knew their wan: of power ; but Ik re
a e bore all the b'.athe ot od oir taxes o i
jinatiiig with others and rightly too, be
■ j life we be.:aved : :ie irrt reposed >11 us
jv the co'nfhtuvio land, to iliullratc
I re-erred to r he exrJe —i v ie tax devi-
Idbv these.: etai y of tin treasury. "i
Ico : itiered tha r gentleman as the mod
mprop r perion in the government to ori
rinate a tax ; not appointed by the people,
lor rtfpo ilibie to t'.em, lie may cp.prel's
:hem, a id they cannot remove him ; unit
ip iii a luxurious city, surrounded >y fpleu
lor, and at the fountain head, where the
collected wealth of all Aitierica is poured
>ut, tie can neither know the interel nor
ympathize with the di!tre£s of thole >< ho
Mrn their bread bv tlie tweat ot the r
crow ; of those diftaiit millions, who plant
•d throughout the American ton, mult
.cork to uarve where they lir £ drew their
ireath. Wh-n the ialt congrcf under the
lew government exercifcd tiiemfelves the
■eat ,-o a . r conferred on them by the p-o
---> e.—coming from all parts ol the ir."on
■,\ tit t':e var' d a:ul d;vcria:c:i in'o illct o.i
jfeacn diilaut (l .'rid, they bt'oi";nt : n o
■> te v.ew that combined !■ nowlt.:_c tliat e
labled them to form the fir't nnpoft law ;
i iriw that gave univerfai ■ iii !.i:no:i co riie
continent, and brought millions into the
funeral treasury ; but vvnen they fbamefiil
v gave up their sacred trull to the fecreta
y, he inltantly introduced the moil dettlf
ilile of all ...v., :.'.e txotfe, Winch has ali
-,'ac d:he a fie c . oi the pecp;e ai.ti as
ret produced iiti'iy 400 coo dollars. 1. it
joiiib e .rat any man can be o ignorant as
ofu • .e the former objections of Ameri
ca to tiie e-.cife to have arifeti frora the
uroduee be'ug applied to the benefit ot
jreat-Brita il ? When did Gre u-B ta it
r.ec propolt this ? Js hoc their o'c? c>a ■: ' t
1 'ngla cl. tiie cOnftai t ctirfe of thur.pwn peo
ple VVnen firlt proposed. among them, did
tliev not rife upa- o :e in 111 and <1 fgracc a
ai.aiftcr tni ttien* thought to be a , iirmly
seated as the iilartd itfelf—And why ? be
caute it is inlinitely more unjult and op
pressive than a poll-tax ; the poll tax is e
cjtiaiity to tills, for by that the richelf man
:n the liate would pay as much as the poor
e'A ; but of th.3 excite, tiie poorelt man in
the (fate pays in-all human pr al ability ten
afoes as much as tlie richefi. a* he probably
Iricc';.. ten times act nuccn v h i An it
s also probable, that all the iVockhoiders <>.
' nurica who have a mortgage on one thiid
sf our propei ty, de not drink as much from
lie country-lfill as any common warm
planter or farmer. Such then is the tax
,!e\ it'ed by a, man. not elected by and not
reipo.ciiole to tiie mate, of lociety, vc ito has
oniy to accommodate his measures to a
monied intere't and a few inlfuential indi
viciuals. Keloid alio, the la!t trapolf law,
crammed down our throats by tiie toma
hawk suspended over a defencelefs fron
cier, in order to hc-'p manufacluri.ig Ac: p.
How partial and unjult is it 111 every dis
pensation c But so tar from recommend.ltg
apposition to she excise, my fpeci lies 011 the
riuor of congref, when advocating a power
:o be velted 111 the prcfuieiit to call out the
militia to ekecute tiie law —and in all lr.y
late acidrcßes, ficrnlii. inconteilible refuta
tion. A jaw palled by legal authority roust
be executed, or it is 110 government, and
any go\crninv t is better than none. A
bad law IhotiTd be repealed, and so (hould
the exc.le av (boil as it can be done with
fa.et;,. I hope au unceaiing oppolitiou may
flow in the iuie of remonltiauce, but re
monstrance only.
The 'econd instance in which I o.bjected
to the :nea:t;res of the Kece a.y, a.-o t- on
his propolitioil to fuud tiie unftihjaikd debt oi
tiicif. S' t'er, u;i vi (he ;i.-incM -'e- rff t'i: for
merfundtng fyitem,which in mv conscience
I did a'uPdo think, and can dettionltrate.
were.'equally ruinous to the country and
the stockholders. I that with re
lpeft to what jiad been dona, it was pan.
!■ »J could not be recalled ; but, to travel
in error when the road was open to extri
cate ourselves, was unpardonable —1 he
(Jil ted States were free to adopt flfch
principles as reason and experience recom
mended, with regard to the debt now to be
funded. My objections to tile old f) ItciTi a -
rote chiefly from the deferredJlock and ir
redeemable quality —The deferred llock «'a
a dangerou. novelty, unknown to the mtft
corrupt governments, who I.ad never da; • d
Co far to volate he rights ofpouerity —ten
fafe, beC3tlfe the people could never be
made feniible of tbr abisl ol adniindi: an
on—That our rights over posterity were 1.-
mited by natural reason — That, as all pub
lic revenue was in effert only the produce
of the labour and indm'ry of Society • our
d -feVred iiock, in fact, air.ountei to this —
That a freeman alive now h>js a right to the
labour ofa freeman born 30 years hence,
and that becacle he n.ay then be dead. and
not able to e; 1 j oy it, that he may fell it
nr.'.v ro •; : ii . d verfon as;:'. fpeiid the ninnc-',
The irredteniablequality, to render fami
liar* 1 v>".il talis explain—The Un.tcd
St ,'es. lw ast of congref, have engaged
no} to pay more of their debt now, at lis
percent, intereff than e : ght per cent. 011
the principal .and intcrelt yearly—and ii
thev do ni>- regularly pay thi • every year
it p'ailes tiiey lose the benefit for ever of the
Tear el •; ft d, lo tit it it may so happen that
til.? Sit per cents may never be redeemed,
and this concluiion is warranted by experi
ence. it depends 011 the congaef. aid iht
secretary ) lor although we have had thi:
privlcgc for three year?, yet we have nevei
avaiied olira Ives of it, and thole tinet
veaV re loft. V\ hy ? liecaufe, fay thef
people, we had not the money—Put the)
boa it that they have paid great part <d tin
French debt at five per . ent. And where
did they je; the money ? F\ v borrowm<
money at four per cen'. in Holland. \\ a
there not the fame means and greater pro
pr'.et; for borrowing at four to pay that
pur; of our deb at lix per tet' • wheh, e
ven oy contract, we '."ere permfted to d
—A id had we not had lorn 20 to 1 mem
bers in our hotife ftpekhoiders, four or live
of whom are bank ti e.-.»rs, i* tlvir a.iy
doubt be that the secretary n<>u d have
been compelled to do this—But I d.d no
name them; why Should I oe torctd to
brie*; "4 quarrel-, 011 my head, when every
ma.l that heard me, by ti.: 111 rig -o the }.a
and r.ays on the journal - of congreir, iri'ght
fati fv himft lf who they were that mmed
in fnpport of every ifleafure of the lecrets
ry'r tlep.r tucait. In my a" mi,en againk
the irredeetr.aUe quality, 'denied that con
gests could hv a ia.v depr ve any future
cu..~ ef>. or abridge a power conterred on
rii bv tile eonft'tution, of paying the debts oj
Hi Vmt.d iistes. Any engagement to abridge
.if s power of paying, in my opinion, w oulel
he uaeoalitution.il- -it world br i:i eft oil
the f line as if they declared by law that the
people ihould not pay their private debt.,,
but ihould continue to jiay thoir p.-efeut
credito t lix per ceir, even a,though diey
cotifd borrow money "of others at 'our, tor
this ve ~y public debt i , in t tit, 110 th ug but
the pi 1. t 1 tfct o, rath nd vicinal c.ta. en
if tiiey have po.ver to'do the o te, they have
an equal power to do the o her. I alferted,
that the idea had ever been execrated in o
ther countries, for nations generally bor
row when In great d.ftreft', and when ot
cour.e they are obliged to Itibniit to any
terms that avarice may impefe upon them,
and f they could not take advantage ot the
prosperous turns of their affairs, (which an
irredeemable quality would prevent )aiid ox
the'r rife of credit, to borrow at leisure on
better terms,-and lower the interest, or
pay o ( the in'.acipat debt on higher intereit,
thev mult soon be destroyed That ii
■', : 1 a tain had been si» ur.wife a t<> a "
dopt this irredeemable quality in the com
ma' earn, a* of their fma.iaaa, iyiiein, they
niuit have been ruined long ago, but by al
vva.'s cautionlly avc idi:;g the filar-' fre
quency laid soy them, they now paid only
three ear cent, intcrctt for tr.onej borrow
ed at eight, and tii'i without the injury
„ii:i -'. iuait tl's con e;»t of rle crae'atar,
by making new loans as their credit arole
— a iit tiiis we might effect at tins inltaut
but for this irredeemable, quality, by bor
rowing at Holland in four per cent, (and
iha: u-it by the prudent management <>:
our secretary, for the .old congtefs with
out the command of any fund whatever,
in the midst of an unequal war, on tiie
doubtful event of which all payment de
pended, borrowed of tiie l.'nteh once at
four percent, ami never at more than lo e
per cent---And this our fecrctnry, in fuil
jv of a! I •he prod:: > : «'e fi-ro •• ot th..
continent, has borrowed'at five per cent,
and never till lately so low as four.) And
this deferred Itock and irredeemable qua
lity lo deftruitiv'e to the country, is equally
rumous to the fiockho'der, for fuppoling
he gets 22/6 for his fix per cents, aa.el l jju
lor f ch erred, it is not e pial to 2e/'in luc
poi" :—• v 7 here as had it teen ii.i.deo a:
live • rcent. a. I prryofed, it would have
been .nltantiy wcrifi icf of American
ere fa'-, or we have.borrow ed ef the bar,i: e.t
five per cent, redeemable at pieafure, and bj
o;T T o!!-..:d. c: aid have :
atfbuvi Tutii.it ail our debt might haVft _,
been reduced to four percent, the flock
hoider would have got one (hilling more in
r.ie pou;vd than he tail tinder the prefenc
.yfteuV; ant) the landed interest and labour
of society would have been relieved o; all
that load o*-'.dcferretl flcek, xvlnch will be
soon a.i jafiipportable burthen, I fear—for
in effect it would be entirely annihilated,
that is, the public would pay no more in
terest: on the whole of what is now fix per
cents and deferred, than it does on the fix
per cents aione, and no after burthen would
. xift.Again, the contingent redeemablequa
i: y of the fix per cent-, prevents their rife*
to t::eir full value at maiket , and a they
are consequently more immediately profit
able tha i 'lie three , pe6p!e deal more in
them, aid they have b ome unfortunately
the b tlis of the pi.bli. credit, and keep
down tile threes ; wherea , had the fecre^
tary relied the balls of his fvllem on t he na -
tural vaine of the threes, instead of that ar
tificial and bolstered project of fixe?, as
they did in England, they must iiave soon
been at par, for good public cred't will be
found to vibrate between two and a half
and three per cent, and in Great Kritain,
from 1-31 to 1 75-. before ftie ran so much
in debt than her ability to pay became ftif
picioiis, the three. al\\ ays a\ eraged par, al
though, in that period, a rebellion iii.ter»eJ>"
ned chat (liook the government to its foun
dation."
I
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
Mr. FP, E M F A U,
A number of the eleflors of t! e cry of
Philadelphia, take the liberty of p. opo ; ng
to their fellow-citizens, the foliowipg gen*
tlenien as reprefen'tatives in the general
aflemblv for the enfumg year, viz.
Geori'C Latimer,
John Swanwick,
B nj. R. Morgan,
Jacob Hiltzheiirer,
rieirry Kanimerer.
Mr. FreneaU,
THE following Ticket for Reptefentntives for
•he county of Philadelphia, will meet with an abl* '
fupportat the gciieral deft ion, as die meetin. Ac :
Qermnntown, the 4th in it. confined of but a lm ill
number of the inhabitants, and couVi not f} '
the sense of the county By publiihing the tick,-
:t you will oblige
A Number of file Sort■ >
Robert Hare. William W. Burrov's,
Thomas Forreft Jaial 13. Jiarchall. i
John I.ardner
Soutbvvark, sth OiSl. 17 2.
For the NATIONAL GAZE "Ej
SO, Mr. Trtreau, your friend Z, in your pa-
yeilerday, thinks th.'i a proc/vm / . - wui
■ffuedin rnft convenient feaj'en. Ai.d that ilj us
peculiarly indelicate and improper, for any oilier?
d the United States, to intermeddle upon h <e
rafion of an election, for R. prefentatives—or to
'a-.tur.t parties, and to influence ele&ions."
Su' h malignant and unfounded ii.f.iinations, as
hefe, must always injure the party and the cause
.j>.-y are meant to fu; port, in proportion as they
l;f 6 racetn..ir authors.
As the charge of mtfrerjtnce, is hf a pnity fai-
Lis nalu c, your corrcfpondcnt may very proper
!y be tailed upon to explain who the ollicers are
that he alludes to, or whether he means that is
[hotild sos ly apply tothe President's proclamation.
From the well known crtmeeiion that hit).";.ls
Ktwecn the leaders of a party in this city, and
he persons tvho fecm to be the ebjeefc of 'ae
President's proclamation ; it is lair to "prtiume
hat the writer in your paper, and hu colleagues,
re n \ch more diipkafed with the proclamation,
ban they were fori) for the occaiion of it.
O. a- Y
Vv A R s A W, J'lly 25.
The new coofHtution, the termination
if which we have long apprehended, i, aE
ength at an end.
On Sunday -night, the RulTnin ttiipifter
ie'ivercd the final anf-.ver of his Imperial
!iil! el'- to the kin J, in which (he declares
ier deternfinatio'n of re-elcablifhing the an
.ic.itvo.jJt'.'tition, and of Supporting to the
'tmo'.c of her power, the con.ederation of
r argoviea.
F'.i'nteen ihoufand Auftriaus form a cor*
;ien on the frontiers of Gallicia. 30,000
P ulli.-.i's are dar.oned o>! the frontiers or
Silesia ; who as'the Empress .» her let:er
ieclared, wtre ready to enforce her requi*
litions.
All I.ithUnia opposes the reftoratioji of
the old form of government, anil the peo
ple tlironghoiit the kingdom arc so rnucli
•nv.'h d to the new confiitution, that
iliould the Empress carry the point, a geT
neral irifurreflion will, undouiledfy takp
place, and a civil war must be the confe
tjuence.
On the 23d of July, a cd-sTation of Itofli*
lities took place between the grand armies;
••••id on the 29th, die treaty was to be final
ly ratified.
Thus it is that the courts of 'Auflria.—
Pruflia; and Great Britain, who a Ihort time
ago, appeared :c be terrified at the idea ot"
Turk.fh accession to Ruifia, have ran eiy%j
permitted a female despot to overturn the™
freedom of a conftitntion, founded ,by the
lin'verfal spirit of virtue, and approved of
by the great majority of every io
Europe..r,MM"Kr» awwa; . timmaj g
COPV OF a LETTER from Capt. JOHN
ROGERS, to his Excellency HENRY
LEE, Efquirc.
Treaty-Ground, Dijirjfi of Mcrt, Territory South
•f Olioj slugujl sib, 1792.
Dear SIR,
WHEN I got intb the Holftein country,
I found I was in time to accompa
9ny g -.crnur UlouiK co tiw tr.'aty in this ditti :
1 pufiied for Knoxviue, the territorial feat of gov
ernment, \a ch place I reached the 4th of July,
*Qd let out fur this the next morning, with-1 he
governor and geneiaj Piclcina, attended by eights
cavalry, railed fur three months duty,for the bet
ter protection of thi» diitridt. A party of fifrv/
intantr/, many families, and other persons, oj:
their way to this country, was fired on by a part)
ol Ind a:js concealed in a cane urake, on the j'jth
JuU, about twenty miles a-head of us, and sis-
Ueu from the fettierrient, which they reached the
<a»ne day ; upon tne Mdiers prefiing forward thev
rui, without doing anv damage : We got into thr
frontiers of ihis difhidi the-next day, and learnt
that one Zeigitrr's Station, at two miles diftattCi
itom \ti, had hr-n taken b) tne lavages. On the
night of the 26th June, a man had been killed in
the ii.int, and a negro girl tomahawked anti
fcolped. i hat day a party of three men went to
take in the body ut the dead man, who lay within
fifty yards of" 4 fence, behind which, the Indians
were still concealed, who fired upon the men, and
wvuodcd them all, they however made their ef
ca r e ro the houses, the Indians purfueu theinclofe,
*ot their guu«, and killed two horses tied near the
houses, and then difappearcd. Mure of the neigh
bours tfflembled in the evening, and carried in the
dead man, who then returned to their respective
homes, being all alarmed for the fafety of the-r
famiiicleaving a: Zeiglst's only the three
wounded .mm, and two or three others belonging
to the place . The Indians returned in the night,
attacked the station, and found that all the peo
ple had got into one houfc, tu the number of twen
tv-one persons, men, women, and children J the
Indians then let fire to the a jacent houses, which
soon communicated the flames to that in whUh
the people were, and quckly reduced them to the
dreadful dilemma of pcrifhing by the flames, or
quitting the house and submitting tiiemfelves to
the tomahawk of a lavage enemy—they chose the
latter j the cluee wounded meaefcapcd, a woman
with a child in her efcapcd (Mil. Zegler)
\ one Wilson was wounded in the breast upon open
ing the door, he however followtd his wife and
v fix children, until a party of Indians were read;
!to lay hold of them, he then bid them fartwrl,
lired hi* gun at the Indians, and efcapcd between
•He burning houfrs j Mrs. Wilson, hfer fix chil
is en, and three ot Zeiglcr'*, were taken off j
2t,ij:lri h fuppoic-d to have perifhe'd in the flame.sj
a ,/ouug mao was omaliawkcd near the houses j
a Vegrc wench killed a fe v miles on their retreat}
'nrfre were bono* of feverai bodies appeared in the
athi'3 5 the that had oeen killed, and the giri
thi" had been r mahawked, but was not dead,
wet conf.wivd ;ri t'.c house. i accompanied
Mi's. Z igh . tv her jla uat 00, with a to
assist riu mauling up h.r enclofurcs, which
h:. I ::n laid open and exposed her crop to the
jflock.
This country is in a deplorable fituation—de
tacK~d from the great body of the union—the in
habitants very dii> eriru — almost every part of it a
frontier—fo that ;< a aie Tale hi their beds, and
ilill fewer in the.' fields j the lands in a measure
lie fallow, or arc tilled with the plough in one
hand, in the other the rlrie ! Many fields which
have been tilled in this manner, are now defeited,
and fine growing Ciops left to be destroyed by such
stocks as were unavoidably left about the deferr
ed antations j and ..4moft every day is diftin
gui'heu by savage muiuers, or other depredati
ons.
I have procured an accurate lift of the killed,
wounded, and miffing, since the firft of January
whi«h i enclose for your ipfpedlion—-which
1 believe will be found to be more than has been I
loft since thtt time, upon all the frontiers of the
union brude (Kentucky inclusive,) Yet it is said !
in the Atlantic iiates, rhat there is peace with the I
Cieekf—peace, with them, is only another name
for war as to thisdiftridK The whole force of
the union is almolt, lham.-fiilly bent against the
northern tribes, in defence of the Kentucky or
Onio fettlemenrs, which tribes are but a mere
banditti compared to the southern nations that
infect this dilbidt j nor is this country of half the
strength of the Ohio fettlemcnts j )er this country
1i left to sustain the wh;'Je force of the southern
nations, unprote&ed, and almost unnoticed by the
union.—The humanity of the governor has af
forded what temporary protection was in his pow
er, which can be but small, as almost every part
of this territory is equally a frontier, but not e
qually harrafled, which enables him to fend a few
men 200 miles, from the paltern part ot the terri
tory, to the afiiftance of this uillrellcd country.
Cut I believe tiie day is not far diftarit, w en
the strong arm of the union mult be employed a
gainst the nations south of this 3 for I believe
when they discover the tardiness of the dates in
gettiog an army into the field, after so fhameful a
defeat as that of last November, that they will in
the spring commence a general war againtt the
states, as the partial war now carried on against
this country, will not Jong farisfy them, especial
ly when they draw a conclusion from our conduct
to the northern banditti, that they have nothing .
to fear from the states, and may enrich them
ielves by a general war. There have, from the .
best infoimation that 1 can get, not less than 400 -<
hoifes been taken from this diftridt since the date 1
of the enclosed return. Perhaps it may be thought i
that I reprcfent the fufterings of this country in a i
partial point of view j humanity alone has prompt- 1
ed me to state their fufFerings to you, for I have c
neither relation norihtereft in it-—ln Kentuck. e
I have both , yet I fay their situation is far more '
fligfole than this 5 jet they nrs protected, and f
this Is not, only as above described. c
Y The go->ds for the treat) have this day arrived p
fafe j they were fired upon in the Tentiee, sup
posed by a party of Creeks, but no damage dene : c
The treaty, I expedt, will begin to-morrow ; there J
r about 600 Indians upon the ground, raoftly t
Chic«tfawa-j the Spanifli influence was exerted to \
J prevent Clioctiwa from coming in jit in some
measure h>.a the delired efiedV, as only ab -.it no
>1 them aie here ; the nation is, notwitnftanding,
well difpof-d to the Americans j \ have renewed
ay enquiries as so theftrength of the above nati
, 11, to the Cree'ts, and rind my former statement
to )011 f Excellency, to have been accurate and
tnay be relied on, and the use may also be mad* of
people on a crrrainemergency, as in a form
er letter i acquainted you could.
I have appointed to let out tor the Kentockv,
on Saturday next—l received your letter, will)
lie enclosures., all of which I shall attend to as
muck as in my power—l expect to be in Virginia
' by the last of Odtober.
[l\ S. The return of persons killed and
■ mounded in, and priloners taken from Mero dif
ridl [territory fourh nf the OhioJ since Januar v
tft. 1792, stands as follows.—Fifty-two killed —
13 miffing eleven wounded, one of whom
is iincedeaJ.—There is positive proof, that moll
o| theie depredations have been committed by the
Creeks, and where the Cherokees have been con
cerned, it has been thro* their influence.J
F*OM the VIRGINIA GAZETTE.
["Obfervatii.nh. by Mr BaiCks.]
1 ' ' Federal Co as if is in many
JL refpefts, has providr-d that the 1
fhouid be directed by the immediate reprefCQta
-1 tives of the people j whenever ihey faii in
| «>ty, every ind-vidual of the community
an immediate, and public interest as well in the
man as the measure, has an unqueftionoble right
to make his remarks.—Justice will oi&ate, that
the bounds of truth be never tranfyrefled, piu
dence will suggest the propriety of moderation—
because of this right 1 have made some observati
ons, but never intended one of them for the Se
cretary of the Treasury—common fame gives
him the reputation of talents, and hit conuutt,
both as a man and a minister 1 hope are unim
peachable— 1 view him as a confidential executive
(crvant of the public, fubjedt to the controul of a
higher tribunal—l have read his reports, but ne
ver as ihzdecreta of a legislative didtator, but as
the chimerical iallies Jf a lively imagination, ex
posed to the pablic for congrefiional, or
mveftigation, and when 1 would applaud him as a
man of Utopian ingenuity—if I could have fup
poled that his reports would have been received as
iht Jiats tf a congielhonal preceptor, very
ent enquiries would have been made.
Let us here pause ! and afk—ls Mr. Hamilton
the prefect secretary of the treasury, who diredls
one of the principal springs of government, under
r.he controul of Cungrefs, or is Congress under
hiv controul ? Ha* he received from Congress a
licence either of commiilion, or permifiion to
lalhion any law or laws which his judgment or
caprice may direct ? Is there any thing in the
Jtederal conllitution which authorises such a sur
render, and if there is, does it become sacrilegious
to complain ?
If Mr. Hamilton has acquired such power in
the early period of his political career, can wc
suppose that he will abdicate it when he shall have
entrenched himfelf by the double operation of the
purle and!word ? but if, (and so I am most in
ciined to beiieve) a majority of the lace Congress
nave been so much the votaries of ease—os pica
lure—of intrigue and fpeculanon as to have neg
ledled their representative duties, is it not proper
that the people ihould be cautioned ? and b'Nng
thus warned /hould not prudence induce them to
avoid all those who have either adtively or pas
sively facrificed or neglected the interests and lib
erties of their conftituerits ?
So far am I from condemning the fecritar",
and so unwilling to believe that he ought to be
charged with any legislative fault, that I have
thus explained myfelf, and as t* those to wnom
the observations do applv, I conclude qui capit
\ilt facir."
Torres a Vendre
Dans un pais bien ptuple?-—
S AVOIR, foixante cinq milJc, trois cens, foix
ante et quatorze Aires, en une feale piece,
I dans le canton le mieux peuplc de la Caroline Mc
ridiomale, leDiftildtde Ninety.Six. Ces irrrep
font liti'ees dans une contree agreable, ct falubre,
ou les fievics font inconnuesj a environ vingt
de Colombie, la Capitale, et continues \la ville
de Cambridge, ou il y a College, et Cour super
cure. A environ douze lieues, y a bonne navi
gation j ct il eft tres probable, que Jans
terns on r. ndra navigable le GranASaludc/rivier?
ou: arrole les teires me;nes. Efles font agreable
ment diyei fifijrs le coteaux et vallons ch.irmanr
propres aia culture du tabac, du coton, du maVi 1
er du p tit jet dont une proportion confidei- 1
able le ; ■ it aifement convertir en prairies r'crtiles
i: n'eft peu'-etre gucrcs poihble de rencor.trer un
pareilie piece de terre a vendre dans aucun autri
eb Etafs Unis ; et pour les conditions de Tachat
on les rendra tres comm >des.
S'irtformer a i'impiimeric de la Gazette Na
tionale. Sept. 5.
- v
LANDS for SALE,
. i
XN a well feftleH Country. SIXTY-FIVE
Jl THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED \ND !
SEVENTY. FOUR JCKES OF LAND, in .
body, in the moll populous part of tlic ol i
South-Carolina, in the dillrifl of Ninety-fix-—li
is lituated in a fine healthy climaf",free from feve. i
& aguc,aiiout lixty miles from Columbia, the felt v
-of government. Tile land is contiguous to th; I
town 0/ Cambridge, where are a seminary for the t
iiiftruilion of youth, and a fupcrior law court. Ii p
is at present within about thirty-five miles of i
navigation, wiih a probability of having the river,
cal.cd the Great Saluda, that fl .ws along one fidi
of the land, made navigable. The land is beauti
r u11 y divertifijd into swells and vales, and is per
feftly well calculated for the culture of tobacco,
cotton, Indian corn, and small grain ; a
proportion of it may be made meadow ground, 0
Theic is not, perhaps, such a body of land, f ICif /
cumftanced, for sale in any other of tiie U: Stltes.
The terms of payment will be made convenieit t \
tlie purchaser or puichrfeu. Apply to the PrinterT
August Z9l iawtl| l<
JUST PUBLISHED
By E. Oswalu,
(Price Eleven Pence)J
" FIVE letters,
' addressed to the
Yeomanry of the United States:
h some Gbfervations on the
Scheme of Governor Duer and Mr Secreta
a y Hamilton, to eAabinli. National Manufactures ,
by a FARMER. This parnphlrc, so highly in
q erecting at this period, may bp had at the follow
• ng places :at Mr. Ofwaid's Printing-Office, No
v 156, Market-rtreet j at No. 209, Market-street;
_ Mi*. Dobfon's, 41, South Second-street ; at
n Mr. Crukihanks, 91, Market-ctreet } at Mr,
* Aitken's, 22, Market-ftrcetj and at Mr. Young's
t S. W. corner of Chefnut and Second-streets.
August 2I«
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for sale by the Printer,
John M'Culloch, at No, 1. North Third-
Street, and by moll - of the Eook
y Seller- in this city,
f (Price 3/q)
MODERN CHIVALRY:
Containing the
r Adventures or Capt. John Farrago,
[ and
Teague O'Regan,
hie Servant.
voicmk 11.
Br H. H. BRACICENRIDGE.
Qtttcquid a«mt Ho,nines, nojlri, Fen ago libel!:, j
Juvena
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale at the Printinoj-OHice,
No. 209, Market-Street,
and at Thomas Dobfon's Book.Si ore in
Second-Street,
Price Three-Eighths of a D liar,
ADVICE
TO THE
PRIVILEGED ORDERS,
in the
SEVERAL STATES of EUROPE,
Re.tilting from the necehity and pro
priety of a General Revolution .n
the Principle of Government.
Bv Jokl Basiow, Esquire.
F 0 R S ALE,
ABOUT 100,000 acres of Land, Ivir.g near j
Whiteftowß, in the flat- of Ncw-Yoi' , 3,1 (
trie florth fide of the Mohawk river, aJjoit.i. ;
Nobleoorough, and will be fold eifht-r in pr.rcc;t
or together, as may suit the purchasers. . >
N. B. The abuve tract of land is of the
quality in the ftite,- chicl-jr timbered with hj.ch
and mapje, well watered, and contain., uk ny ntii! r
ieata. The peculiar advantajea oft!. -. tri.c'.-,' •'<:»; J
ated within a few miles of V'Ai ertowft (which j
contains upward. 6f five thousand inhabitant)
with an easy and convenient wr-r carriage to
Scheneaatfy, Albany, and New-York, make it rn
"hieft for any perfens inclined to fettle it, and ren
der it an cxtremclv advanfajenuj puicbaf; for j'
perlofta mcltaed to rca 1 i*4 e >:ieir money In land o1 j
an encrealin; value. Tl-c v.hole rradt or o»ft j
of it, will be fold very low for cafli, or for
ca:h, and the remaining payments at difiant per j
ods. Enquire at No. ng Quvcn-ftiect, near the j
Fly-market Mew. York. J
July 19.
Sniity far ijiablijhing ufeful AfanfattL'ut.
NOTICE is hereby piv<n to the holders M
;i inthe ' aid focicty, that the following
| has been made by the Depur Cu
i ernor and Dire {fort thereof, by a «foi'utica o.
I the eightreut'j day of May, 179?.. ■
i •1 c Second » m trie payment of .liartf* ■>
in ibt (Vock of this focicty, ma> oe made .in the
following 'manner, viz.
xha amount of the faiJ feccnd inftalrncnt, be
ing 20 13-Joo dollars each si.are, may be paid in
Wtc payments, on condition that tie lar.lul in- 1
sraft of 7 per cent, pe- aiihliro, oe
and paid With each proportionate part of the said
ayment, tliat is Co on or before the thir- •-
tenth day ot Augutt nest, the sum of 6 71-100
w.Ji the addition of 12 cnts, being the interei J
t one .n- nth on 7.0 dollars—on cr be- i
)re the cf September next, the sum of 6
11 100 doliai's, v.iili the addition of S cents, be- '
£ the i.itcreft tor ojie rnonch on 13 42-100ddo- t
-and 0 -» or before tlie 13th of Odtuber next,
the sum of (3 '71-100 dollars, with the addition ol
• bcinj the intereil on tl.e fame for on< '
M nth. The said payments are to be made at the
allowing place's, ?»z. In the city of Philadelphia,
U the bsi.k of the United States—a: New-Brunf }
wick, in Ne;v-jerfcy, t(/ John Bayard, or Joh-. '
Nei!fob, Efcjts —and in the city of New-York, at
the bank ot New-York, or either of the said 1
places, which may be most convenient Co the
(lock holders <
By order of the direction,
JAMES GRIFFITHS, Clerk. '
' tf. 1
*:* Three handsome Editions of the Laws
of the United o tales for sale ai this ojficz
(No. 209 Market fireet) in folio and otla
v), either full or half bound— N.B. The 1 1
Li-ws of the lajl SeJJlon, in otfavi only, may
it hadjefrarate, pric* three eighths qf a in !Utr, I
N'w-York and Philadelphia
STAGES,
Via Bordenton and-Burlington.
THE proprietors 01 the New-York and Phi
ladelphia Land and Water Stages, beg leave
to mention, that for the better accommodation of
the paflenger«, they have removed their different
# packet boats from Kl*t;ir former Oand, at the
Crooked Billet \v narf, to the wharf or dock i:n
---e mediately next below A'rch-ftieet j from whence
. a convenient packet boat starts for New-York,
, as usual, on every Sunday, Tuesday, W..dnefday
. and Thursday, and returns on every Tuesday,
. Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The paflage t»
be made either by the way of Rordenton or Bur
lington ; eaah place taken alternately.
t Fire for patTengers from Philadelphia to New
' Y^ k * " " 15s.
for goods do. do. per cwt. 6s;
Van Embnrgh and M'Kean,
David Williamfon,
Proprietors eft hi !.,:c of Nci, York and PhtladsU
pbm sages, by tbe 'out of Bordenton.
Jacob Myers,
Amos Hutchin, \
Nicholas ScJlcnck,
Proprietors of the line of Nc v Teak and Pbiladel
pbtafiagts, by the rout of Burlington.
Bordcncon, 1.
For freight or paffige apply to the matters on
board, or to
M-Kcan and Van Emburgh;
V.'ho have for sale at their ftoie 011 said wharf,
immedia.ly next below Arch-Oreet,
O.e Madeira, ~j Mulcovado,
Tcneritfe, and Win is. Loaf, and {-Sugars
Mountain Lump \
Jamaica Spirits, Molalf s,
Antigua, 1 Coffee,
Chocolate,
Ncwlury j Bohea Tra,
• Rochelle Brandy Pork*
1 'n P'?es, cal'es and Him ,
demijohns, Flour,
Sin '11 pipes and cases, Bar I.„n, &c. fee.
©rden for Grain, 9ta»es, Bill* of Scantling, *
other Lumber, punctually a;t-ndfd to,
l or freight or parage to Laroberton or Tren
-0 n : alio, apply ->■ juvr,
Philadelphia, Oftobtr, 1792.
books,
Printed and fold by
MAT HE W C AkE Y,
Ai. iiS, Strut, Philadelphia.
I. American Mtiie'u.i, f, ,t, com, tenement,
» 1 7S7j ''J' ■ i?ya, .n eleven volume,
rftce, ne.it/y aound a.:d tette,, Stvtmttn dollars
and ibiee fijtbs.
lb,, ivork tobieb it nnv WnJuded on an im
ptcveei f , CO , ,uv? ibe belt p, e ecs tablijbcd t'or
and agatnd the prtteio,.-.,js of .v.rua'nnt, luu! ui
If 1 " "I "s -u . * variety of poi
> ■'''Xehutil, and m.jcili, inecus ejjuyt. us any
ever pub ijhed in „a. PnU.ps mn. on, wJk.
are Jo many valaabU doc - t.ents rejp, 'ling the Ligt
count: J, cA . 7-"'' togctJJ'r, il,s excel
"nejf the Prefn'.enc»/ the United State,, bat de
•tpr..i 0 - it,- that • ~iore ufsful litersry plan
nai ,;i:r been undertaken in America, nor one
oc.crving o' public meou 'l'bt
.I-Jjertpi:,., i: t„ s dollers and a half per annum.
I -en :n tbt ttuuty •.■Jbt toi/b to btjufplisd
j. . :-M wtrk, nee rcijucy .1 to giveeommt/Jion t»
•rienrs -n t'-e e.tf :i fmjei tbtetr and receive it.
t. SvutbU letttr* t, r.:err:-d w.nt;, on nurjlng
a< e of :b recommend
'" tu '' " fk 'f' "M "f tbofi to whom they m t
p ■ tie ttarly a Wj.„ .rUntbly Rtv.. w, Vol. 33,
■ 1 101. 2: ice band five eighths of a dollar.
■ Wvr'j element 1 of'logic. " three Jiurtbs of „
not a r . J
4. Ileau::cs of fielding, 50 cents.
5* iectil -.cs if lila.r, $0 cents.
\ J** Lntii-j i J o. i t ?.ii, rarv—containing 'Mrft
-lort sEffay: , Gregory's Legacy ; Lady Pen ■
• advice ; J'.larcbionejs of Lambert's ad
"• /' * "tiff lo a tievily married lady j
. on corw-.ar.et of temper j Mart's fa
-les for the - idles Prico bjfa.
Smith's Hiitory of New-York. Price a dol
lar and a Cj-uart;-.-.
7. to Moral Science, by James Beat
tie, t.L.u. profeger of moral pbiiejopby and logic
in the Marijtb,,! Co/letrr, sioereieen—Pr'ue tbret
jii'irths of a dollar. Of this book the Critical Re
vte-Kcrs (vol. tcj. j. bt.%) Jay i « iV, bave jetn
nothing on tbejeJubjtct; more plain, more pcrjp.cu*
as : or more gcnera.ly ufefu!.''
9" Beauties of Vent.), Price four fifths of a
I'ullfiT* m '
10. Rbir's Scrmoni,-- p rut two dollars,
11. Netftar'.i Treatije -on the importance of rtli
gious opinions. Price four fifths of a dollar.
12 Examination oj tbt objervations of Lord Sbef
\field on ylniCt itUei Cunmetct. Price } on very f rut
\ paper t five e'trbtbt of a dolir.r•
J 3. the Conftitutiont of tie federal United States,
ioitb the federal Conjlitutun, &c. Price five
eighths *f u dollar.
14 M*i 4 ingal, Price three eighths of a dollar
1 5- American Jeil Book, three fifths of a
dollar.
16. Garden of the Soul, half a dollar. v '
' *7; Tbt Douay Traujlation of the vulgat•
b't, in fit rto. Price, aegantly oound and letic r «u\
$<jfi~. -plain, fir. dollars. \
Said Carey has for sale, a large of
' Looks, Eurtpean as ivcll as American editions, '
■ "i'Jbicb be tvill difpoje of on the moji reafonahlel tirms %
| Country gentlemen, kvho favor bun iv 'nb cotr.<ma»ds,
depend upw lur.g jupplicd in tbt moflJatisfac
\t;ry mariner. M Hberai allovxa/tce to fueb as pvr~
j chafe quantities for public hhrarieor to fell avain.
| 6rD.„. w . "
PRINTED BY
C HIL D S and SWAINE/
AT THKU OFFICE NO. 209, HlGft- SrR * E T,<
NEAR FirTK-!i RJST, i
*MJ Jj
: hi