Voi.. I.
In the Heuft of R'prefentativrs of tki Unit
ed, States, Tuesday the Bth of May, 1792.
MR. FITZSIMONS from the com
mittee appointed to inquire into
the causes of the failure of the late ex
pedition under major general St. Clair,
reported thai the committechad accord
ing to order proceeded to examine all
the papers furnifhed by the executive
department relatively thereto, sundry
papers arid accounts furnifhed by the
Treasury, and war departments, with
explanations of the fame by the heads
•of those depaitmcnts in person, to hear
the testimony of witnefTes upon oath,
and written remarks by general St.
Clair upon the facts eilablifhed by the
whole evidence, and that as the result
of their inquiries, the committee had a
greed to the following Report.
The cniitraft for tire supplies of the
army on the routa from fort Pitt, w»s
made by Theodofius Fowler, with the
Secietary of the Treasury, and bears
date the twenty-eighth day of October,
one thousand l'even hundred and nine.
iy. that at the fame time a bond in the
penalty of one hundred thousand dol
lars, with Walter Livingfton and John
Cochran, securities thereto, was enter
ed into for the due execution of the con
trast.
That on the third day of January
one thousand seven hundred and nine
ty-one, the.contract was wholly iranf
ferred from the said Fowler to William
Duer, a copy cf which transfer was
lodged in the office of the Secietary oi
the treasury, that by letter from the Se
cretary at war, bearing date the twen
ty-fifth of February,one thousand seven
honcfred «md rrrnefy»x>fle, audreifcd "to
William Duer, it appears that he was
.considered as the contractor, that nc
correspondence appears to have taken
place subsequently to that time between
Theodofius Fowler and either the trea
sury or war departments —that on the
sixth day of March one thousand seven
hundred and ninety-one, a contrast was
entered into by William Duer with the
Secretary at war, for lupplying the
troops with provisions until their arri
val at Fort-Pitt, and at Fort-Pitt a bond
was at the fame time entered into bv th«
said William Duer for the due execu
tion of the said contrast in the penalt)
of four thousand dollars without an)
security whatsoever.
That the ast making provision for the
defence of the frontiers received the sig
nature of the Prcfident of the Unitec
States the third of March one thouianc
seven hundred and ninety-one—l'hai
general St. Clair appointed com
mander in chief Oj the army deftinedfoi
the expedition on he fourth day of tin
fame month, and 011 the twenty-eight!
left Philadelphia for Fort-Pitt, at whici
place he arrived the fixteer.th day o
April, and from thence proceeded tc
Lexington, and from thence to For:
Washington, where he arrived on th<
fifteenth day of May—At the time o
the arrival of the General at Fort Wash
ington, theganifon there confided ol
feventy-five non commissioned officer:
and privates fit for duty—the garrison
at Fort Harmar of forty-five—at For
Steuben of sixty-one—at Fort Knox o
eighty-three; and on the fifteenthday o:
July the whole ofthefirft United State;
regiment, amounting to wo hundred &
ninety-nine non commissioned officer:
and privates arrived at Fort Wafhinj
ton under orders from the commander
in chief—General Butler was appoint
ed the feccnd in command in the month
of March, and immediately proceeded
to make the r.eceflary arrangements for
rfie recruiting service, that he arrived
in Baltimore in the slate of Maryland
the twentieth of April, and continued
there till the thirtieth of the fame
month, that he arrived at Carlisle in the
slate of Pcnnfvlvania on the ninth of
May, and at Fort Pitt on the twentv fe
pend cf thefame month—lt appears that
By P. FREN iA U : Pullijhtd Mondays and Thursdays, at Three Doilars per annum.
MONDAY, May 14, 1792.
no monies for purchasing supplies wt'f
fyrnifhed at Carlisle, which was the
place of rendezvous, for the enliflec
soldiery, on the ninth of May, and that
Mr, Smith, agent for the contractor,
was actively engaged in furnifhing sup
plies for the troops oa credit.
It appearsby letters from John Kean,
another of the Contractor's Agents, thar
no monies had beeri received by him on
the eighth of May, and it appears that
on the twenty-third of March there was
advanced to William Duer upon the
last mentioned contrast, from the Trea
sury, the sum of fifteen thousand dol
lars, that there was advanced upon the
firft mentioned contrail, the sum of se
venty thousand dollars, in the following
funis, and at the following dates to wit :
March 2sd 10,000 Dollars.
Apr;l 7th 15,000 Ditto.
April 25th 15,000 Ditto.
May 7th 20,000 Ditto.
July 20th io.oco Ditto.
It appears from the correspondence
of General Butler to the Secretary at
war, from the ninth of May to ths ninth
of June, repeated complaints were made
of fa:al mifmauagemcnts and neglects,
in the Quarter Matter's and military
stores department, particularly as to
tents, knap sacks, cainp kettles, car
tridge boxe«, pack saddles, &c. all of
which articles were deficient in quan
tity and bad in quality.
The pack-saddles particularly were
made in Philadelphia, which with the
transportation, amounted to more than
double the price at which they might
have been procured at Fort-Pitt, and
were found upon examination to be jn
fit far ate ,—ihe arm's sent forwarcfap
pear not to have been duly examined,
and arrived at Fort-Pitt extremely out
of order, and many totally unfit for use,
which circumstance rendered repairs
absolutely necefTary, and added to the
delay of the troops at Fort-Pitt.
It appears that a great proportion of
the powder supplied for the use of the
army, was not of good quality, though
an experiment was made by Major Fer
gufon at Fort-Pitt with a howitz whe
reported in favor of the quality of the
powder. On the ninth of June Gener
al Neville, another of the contractor's
agents informed General Butler, that
he had not at that time receivedany mo
nies from the contractors, for the pur
chase of provi lions &c. for the troops,
and was obliged to supply them on cre
dit, that the country furnilhed provisi
ons in abundance at a cheap rate, when
money was had for the purchase.—
That lhortly after this information was
communicated to General Butler, at hi:
request four hundred dollars were ad
vanced to General Neville by the Quar
ter Master for the purchase of provifi
onsforthe troops.—The troops arriv
ed at Fort-Pitt in the following order,
to wit.—
May 16-th.—Captain Slough fixty
nine men.
May ißth.—Captain Powers feventy
eight men.
May igth.—Captain Cribbs forty
men : fame day Capt. Guthrce twenty
three.
May 25th. —Captain Avmftrong fe-
Venty-fix : fame day Capt. Kirkwood
sixty-seven.
May 28th.—Captain Snowden one
hundred and one.
June 2d.—Captain Sparks eighty
three.
June 3d. —Captain Butler sixty-one :
fame day Captain Brock, eighty-two ;
fame day Captain Vanfwearingen eigh
ty-eight,
June cth.—Captain Pike feventy
thice : —Total including officers and
privates eight hundred and forty-two ;
and left that place in the following or
der, Major Fergufon with Captain Arm
strong's company, about the firft of June.
C aptain Snowden with the troops un
der his command on the day of
Major Gaither with about five hundrec
men, 12th day of July—and on the 22c
August the last of the troops under tlie
command of Captain Phelon, and Gen
eral Butler with the Quarter-Maflcr-
General, on the 26th of August-
It appears that General Butler, had
orders from the department at war to
protest the frontiers with the troops un
der his command, and that the delays
in fending forward the troops from
Fort-Pitt arose partly from that circum
fiance and partly from the temporary
want of lupplies of proVisions and o
thcr nece'faries, and from the want of
the neceflary boats for their transpor
tation, which were not in readirieis as
(oon as the troops were.—lt appears
that General Butler acted with ability,
activity and zeal in his command at
Fort Pitt, and that the delays of the
troops there cannot be imputed to his
want of judgment, or his want of exert ion
The troops met with considerable dif
ficulties and delays in going down the
river from the low slate of the water,
and arrived at Fort Washington 111 the
following order.—Capt Mumford from
North-Carolina, with about fifty men
on the day of Major Fergufon
with Capt. Armflrong's company, on
the day of Major Gaither with
the troops under his command on the
day of Colonel Darke with the
troops under his command on the
day of and the Kentucky militia on
the day of
The army, confiding of about two
thoufaud fion-commifTioned officers ana
privates, moved from Fort-Wa(hington
by orders from the commander in chief
to a place about five or "fix miles from
thence, called Ludlow's station, where
they continued till the seventeenth day
of September, at which time the whole
army amounted to about two thoulanc
three hundred non-commiflioned offic
ers and privates fit for dutv—That thf
price of rations at Fort-Wafhingtor
agreeably to contrail was 6 | goths o
a dollar per ration, the price of ration:
at Ludlow's flation was 15 | 90th ol
a dollar per ration.
That the inducements of the com
mandcr in chief to this movement, ap
pear to have been to furnifh green so
rage for the hories and beef cattle of the
army, to inflruft the soldiery in fielc
exercise a»d other necessary discipline
and to deprive them of the means of in
toxication, which were very plenti
fully supplied at Fort-Washington
and used to an excefilve degree by
the soldiery, to correct the excessive uf<
of which the mod rigid attentien to dif
cipline was found incompetent.
Mr. Hodgfdon was appointed quar
ter mafler-general in the month of
March, and continued at Philadelphia
until the 4th of June, he then proceed
ed to Fort-Pitt, where he airived the
tenth of the fame month—no fufficient
caufcs have appeared to the committee
to juftify this delay, and his prefcnce
with the army appears to have been es
sentially necefTary prcvioufiy to that
time, the duties of the commander in
chief were much increased in conse
quence of the absence of the quarter
mafler-general, and after a continued
expedition of his arrival at Fort-Wash
ington, for more than fix weeks, the
commander in chief gave him express
orders by letter to repair to camp with
out delay.
The receipt of the letter is acknow
ledged, but the orders contained there
in were neither answered nor obeyed,
and his arrival at camp was not until
the tenth of September. The com
mander in chief until that time in ad
dition to the duties of his office, dis
charged those of the quarter-mafter-ge
ncral, and the military (lores furr.ifhed
by that department were so deficient
from mismanagement and neglect, that
many things eifential to the movements,
of the army were either wholly made 01
Numb. 57,
repaired at Fort-Washington, and even
the tools fur the artificers to work with ;
1 1he quarter-master particularly inform
ed the commander in chief that two
complete travelling forges were ferft
forward, and itpon examination, both
of them were found to be without an
anvil, many other things equally ne
cessary were cither wholly omitted, or
unfit for their intended use.—There
were fix hundred and feventy-five (land
of arms at Fort-Washington the firft of
June, arid mod of them totally out of
repair. The commander in chief ap
pears to have been corrett and atten
tive in all his communications with thg
Secretary at war,- and to have difeharg
ed the various duties which devolved
upon him with ability, activity & zeal.
The army moved from Ludlow's sta
tion on the feventecnth day of Septem
ber, arid arrived at the place where
Fort-Hamilton is now ercfted, on the
day of they employed
about fifteen days building that fort,
and then proceeded in their march to
the place where Fort-Jefferfon is now
erected, forty-four mites distant from
Fort-Hamilton, where they arrived on
the twelfth day of October, and com
menced their march from that place on
the 24th of the fame month—that the
army at this time confifled of about 1700
non-commiflioned officers and privates
fit for duty ; at this time the army had
not more than three day's supply ©?
flour, and were sometimes at one-fourth
and lometimes at one-half allowance of
that article, the deficiencies of which
allowance were made up by incrsafing
the quantity of. beef with which they
wefe plentifully supplied. The army
was delayed five or fix days on the
march from Fort-JeiTerfon, for the
want of provisions, and the fealon was
so far advanced that fufficient gireen
forage for the horses could not be pro
cured, from which circumftunce masV
of the horses were totally loft, ancl
others rendered unfit for service.
The orders to the commander in chief
to proceed with the expedition, were
express and unequivocal, so much so,
as in the opinion of the committee to
preclude the cormhander in chief from
cxerciiing any discretion relatively to
that objcct.
On the 31ft of October about fix.ty of
the Kentucky militia deserted m s bo
dy, and the firft regiment,- confiftmgof
about three hundred effective men was
detached with a view to cover a con
voy of provisions which was expected,
and which it was fuppofc J was in dan
ger from the deserted militia, and to
prevent further defcrtions*
On the 3d. of November—after de
taching the firft regiment the army cos
fiftcd of about fourteen hundred eirec
tive men, and oi> the morning of the
4th about half an hour before iunrife, a
general attack was commenced, and in
a few minutes thereafter, nearly the
whole army was surrounded by the ene
my, the action continued about four
hours during which several charges
were made by part of the army. wluc'/.
caused the enemy to give way but pro
duced no good effect, the attack was
unexpected, the troops having been just
dismissed from the morning parade, it
commenced upon the militia who, were
in advance of the main army, and who
fled through the main army, without
firing a gun, this circu-r-.ftance threw
the troops into foine difordcr which it
appears they never completely recover
ed during the action, the fire of the ar
my was constant but not well directed,
and it appears that a part of the troops
behaved as well as could be expected
from their state of discipline, and the
manner and fuddonnefs of the attack ;
the commander in chief appears to have
been cool and deliberate in the \vboli>
of the action, andthe officers tn.~erter.il
active and intrepid—the whole Order
' f See lajt Page.]CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
TuksdAY, May 8.
An engrossed bill making certain appro
priations therein fpecified, was read a third
time and pal Ted.
A me(ii:;e from the Senate by Mr. Secre
tary Otis, informed the House that they re
cede from their djfagreeftients to the a
inendments of the House to the process bill
:;nd that they agree to amendments to the
bill for regulating foreign coins, &c.
Mr. Bourne from the committee on en
rolled bills, reported as truly enrolled, the
following bills, Tiz. An aCt making altera
tions in the Treasury and War depart
ments—an ast for regulating procefles 1:1
the courts of the United States, and pro
viding compensations for the officers ot laid
courts and for jurors and witnefles—and an
to provide for a copper coinage 1h-
S"eakerfigned the above bills.
A bill to compensate the services of the
latc Col. George Gibfon, wa' taken into
confiileration, in committee of the whole,
and agreed to without amendment—lt wa
then read the third time and palled.
Mr. Murray callcd for a res ilution laid
on the table a few days since, viz. Refolv
cd that the fame allowance per diem bt
made to the President pro tempore of tin
Senate, as is given to the Speaker ot this
House ; and that a committee be appointed
to report a bill accordingly—The rtlop
tion was taken into confutation; lomt
difficulties being suggested, the motion wa
withdrawn. .
Mr. Willis presented the following reso
lution in substance, that the Secretary of
the Treasury report at the next fenion,
early as may be, the number and capacity
of the (tills in the fevtral diftrifls and Hates;
the nett produce of the revenue ariling from
the duties thereon. See. number of officer
employed in collecting the duties, &c. I his
resolution was adopted.
Mr. W. Smith called the attention of the
House to a report of the Secretary of State,
on the subject of procuring frefh from fait
water; and propoled a refoltition pursuant
to the Secretary's report, authoriling hui
to cause the several collector to be provi
ded with blank clearances, on the back o)
which (liall be printed directions for the
process. This resolution was agreed to.
Mr. Heifter moved the following reso
lution in fubliance—'That the Secretary of
the Treasury be requested to report to this
House at their next fitting,—the quanti
ties, kinds and values of foreign merchan
dize imported into the several diltrifts oi
the United States, since the operation of the
revenue laws—fpecifying the ports at which
such importations were made, and the laws
under which the duties were paid ; this re
solution was not agreed to.
Mr. Fitzfimons of the committee ap
pointed to enquire into the causes of the
failure of the late expedition under Gene
ral St. Clair, brought in a report, which
was read— after the detail ot faCts ? the re
port contains the following result in sub
stance : That the failure of the expedition
■was principally to be attributed to the de
ficiency of the neceflary articles of military
stores, &c. the failure in the quartermas
ter's department, failure of the contractors,
and the want of experience and discipline
in the army.
The commander in chief, General St.
Clair, is fully exonerated from all blame oi
imputation whatever.
This report wa - ordered to be printed
It was then moved by Mr. W. Smith,
that the ' 'ufc should resolve that they
would ke the said report into confidera
tio early in the next feflion ; this resolu
tion was agreed to.
A mefTage from the President of the Uni
ted States by Mr. Secretary Lear, inform
ing the House that the President has ap, ro
ved and signed the following acts :
An aCt relating to the compensations of
certain officers employed in the collection
of the duties of import and tonnage : An ast
concerning spirits distilled within the Uni
ted States ; and An aCI providing more ef
fectually for the national defence, by esta
blishing an uniform militia throughout the
United States.
A mefTage from the Senate informing the
House that the President had notified the
Senate that he had approved and signed ar
A£t for the relief of persons imprisoned foi
debt—and an ACt to continue in force ar
ACt providing for mitigating or remitting
certain forfeitures and penalties arising un
der breaches of the revenue laws— and tc
provide for the payment of invalid petitions.
The committee on enrolled bills, report
ed as truly enrolled, abill to compensate the
services of the late Col. George Gibfon—
which was signed by the Speaker.
In committee of the whole on the bill
entitled an a£t, in addition to the acr to
provide for the Territory North-Weft of
" the river Ohio.
The committee difcufled the several sec
tions, and made sundry amendments, which
were reported to the House—the House a-
dopted the re amendments, and then die
jill w .1; ordered to be engross- d f-.»r a third
-eading.
A refolntioh offered for indemnify
ng the officers who hive attended the com
nittee of enquiry for their extra neceff.iry
?xpences. also for compenlating the clerk
employed by the committee on this occaiion
-laid on the table.
A meflage from the Senate informed the
■souse, that they concur in the resolution
lUthorifmg the Secretary of State to pro •
■ide the printed clearances, agreeably to his
eport. '
Mr. Williamfon called up a report o a
elect committee on the petition ot sundry
nhabitarxts of the Hate of North-Carolina,
iraying Congress to authorise that (late to
>als a law impo'ing a duty on tonnage, to
>e appropriated to defraying the expence ot
dearing obstructions in the navigation of a
'articular part of that state—the report is in
"avor of the petitioners, and was agreed to.
Mr. Parker moved the following refolu
ion : That the Secretary of the Treasury
■a use such returns to be made as will (hew
he quantities and qualities of the exports
Yom one itate to another coastwise- —to re
iort the next fellion —laid on the table.
An engrofled bill, entitled. "An ast in
iddition to an ast to provide for the terri
ory North-weft of the river Ohio," was
cad the third time, the blanks filled up,
md the bill palled.
A meifage from the Senate, by Mr. Se
retary Otis, informed the House that they
lave palled the bi 11 making certain appro
iropriations therein fpecified, with an a
nendment—alfo, that they have pafled the
ji 11 relative to the claim of J. B. Cutting,
igainft the United States. The amend
ment to the appropriation bill, appropriates
lie sum of jo,ooo dollars for the purpose ot
. arrying on negotiations and facilitating the
ntercourfe with foreign nations. 1 his
imendment was concurred in by the House.
Adjourned till 6 o'clock, p.m.
Tuesday Evening, May 8.
A meflage from the Prelident ot the Uni
ed States by Mr. Lear, informed the
dlopfe that he had this day approved a 'id
ignect' two acts, which originated in the
doiife, viz. An ast supplementary to tlie act
naking provision for the debt of the United
States ; and an act making compenfatioils
o the commissioners of loans for extraor
linary expences.
A meflage from the Senate by Mr. Oti
nforined the House, that they have pafled
in ,-«ft refpefting the government of the ter
ritory of the United States north-weft and
"outh of the river Ohio.
The committee on enrolled bills reported
is truly enrolled the following bills: An
ict making certain appropriations therein
pecified—An ast refpefting the government
>f tie territory of the United States nortli
veft and south of the river Ohio —An ast
efpefting the claim of J. B. Cutting—also,
resolve directing printed clearances of
>articular form for the collectors of the
-nited States.
The Speaker signed the above bills and
efolve : the fame being laid before the Pres
ident, a meifage was received by Mr. Se
retary Lear, informing th' House that
hey had received his approbation and lig
lature.
A mefl'age from the Senate by Mr. Secre
■ry Otis informed the House, that the Pre
ident had notified the Senate that he had
ipproved and signed two acts which origi
lated in the Senate—An ast to provide for
i copper coinage, and An ast to compensate
he fervicesof rhelate Col. George Gibfon
The Secretary also info; med the Houfle,
hat tie Senate \aving com]>leted the bufi
lefs before them were about to adjourn.
A mefl'age was sent to inform the Senate,
hat the House having completed the bufi
ief- before them, are ; bout to adjourn.
On motion of Mr. Smith, it was ordered
hat the Clerk procure such of the laws ol
he several states as are not already in his
itfice.
The Speaker then adjourned the House,
o meet agan on the firft Monday of No
ember next, according to law.
7"o Sidney and the Whiskey-Drinkers.
YOU are an unrenfonable set of fellows,
to make such a plaguy rout about a
>altry excise. What ? do not you know
t has the fanftion of some of the most ex
lerienced diitillers in the United State:',
nen of wealth and opulence, who could
my and fell the whole ragged race of v\ hif
■cey-driiikers, twenty times over ? When
\l<mi''is i'J Congress rile in their places and
nodeftlv inform the House that they art
\rijviuui\ cciucrnrd in some of the molt ex
enlive dii!illcries in New-Knghmd, you
:annot furelv imagine thole honorable dif
:illers would be such fools as to join in any
ilan to ruin the distillery —that of rum ana
\in I mean—for as to your vulgar whilkey, it
< not to be expected that genteel well-bred
r.en fliould pay any regard to such mean
jiebeian liquor. When they alfurev v-.-.u
:hat Xcu>-Englandis equal at lea.il, i" i ..t
luperior to any that is importtd, can vou queftton
:he truth of thejr dijinttrrjied ail'ertiorr, or
iiefitate tofwallow their rum and their ~in
together with tlieir e-tcife, in pre'rfeiKf t >
/ iur fiithy vrhifkey, thtit is only fit to poison
the hostile Indians ? ,
If you were not an ungrateful antifede
' 1 crew, you would tharix them for fpa
riqg you the trouble of diddling for your
selves. All the plague and pother of whir
key-brewing will now be at an end : 'i 011
tvill have nothing more to do hencefor
ward, than to drag down your gram to thefea
:oafl, a trifling diftance"of five or lix hun
tred miles (which is nothing to a back
voods-man) and there barter it for the am
srofial juices of the New-England ftil.s
flight you in: to think yonrfelves happy
:u get any thing for the redundant product
->f your farms ? How much worse wouk
>e your situation, if tiie gin distillers wert
:o take it for nothing ?
Take a hint from a friend : hold you:
tongue , and either pay the excise duty, ot
ireak up your stills, left an army of militia
tolled ?d from the gin and rum distillers
liould be sent out into the back country
to make you fmg a different tune over youi
ivhilkey. RecolleQ the law that has beei
.ately pafled, authorizing the President t<
riarch and counter-march the militia as lit
ileafes. Recollect and tremble : for al
though the present chief magistrate wouh
never consent to murder his fellow citizen
for drinking hi 1 ; health and toasting the ft
:leral constitution in a glass of un-excifet
whiskey—who knows what freak his fnc
ceffor may take into his herd, ii ever h:
jets it heated with high-proof rum or gin:
MUM.
PHILADELPIII A.
May 14, 1792.
Oil Thurftl iv last the President of tlx
United States set out from this capital on ;
four to Virginia. It is said he is to be ab
lent about three weeks.
The President of the United States, wits
the advice and consent of the Senate, ha 1
-ppointed Tench Coxe, Esq. commif
lioner of the revenue.
Oil Thurfduy evening, a Captain Morgar
us a Schooner from Sinepuxent, lying ai
liickhain'a wharf below South-street, hav
;ng fold his cargo went on fliore, leaving
directions with his men. as kis money wa
oil board, to be particularly watchful ; ant
10 fire on any that might coine to dilturl
them.
About twelve o'clock at night a perfoi
was heard 011 board—th? men in the ca
bin hailed him—he made no-answer. As
eer some time they heard him if be wen
attempting to force open the tvbin door
they again and again ('poke to him withou
receiving any answer. At length theydif
charged a loaded mufquet through the par
tition and fl'.ot the man.
The people about the wharf were alarm
ed and immediately collected to the place ;
where to the great aitositlnnent of all pre-
I'ent they found Captain Morgan lying dead
In our paper of the 7th mil. mention wa:
made ot a eleven Rhode-Iftand cap
tains, being in the port of Paiamanbo, 111 Suri
nam, in February lafl, to join with their iea
fanng biethrcn of the other cafiern dates, at
the fame place, in celebrating ihebirih-dav ol
the President of the United States.—This uifah
It ems, however, to leave been mifrcprefer.ied ;
and the ditfeteilce to have anfen from the Rhode-
Illaiid-mrn having infilled upon inviting all the
tefpeftable inhabitanis of Paramaribo to the en
tertainment; which was oppoled and universally
negativt d by the t a plains bom the other caller 11
lines, and catiled a (ep.ratioD ol parties. The
day, notwithOan'ling, was celebrated wiili even
demonfliation ot joy by the Rhode-Island cap
tains and crews. The governor of Surinam
declined the entertainment, in confequcnce ol
;he exclulion ol the Rliode-iflandeis.
The following is mentioned in the Ccnnndicui
Covrantoi infl a n-.aiTt rol la.tt--
As two men, during the Kite winter, were ciof.
ling 2 pond, in the upper pan of Keen County.
111 New-Hamplhire, ;n pursuit of a moole
det-r, one ol inein bt-.ng thiiflv. and perceiving
a hole which had been cut through the ice by
!omc fiihernicn, he Hooped down to diink ; but
beingpoflcflcd of . long red nose, a filh fuppo
led he had.let down some bait, and made bold
to snap at it; w:icn the man suddenly throwing
his head back, diewouia tiout which weighed
three pounds lour ounces !
Some time lad week (fays the Virginia 0ti7..;
a negro woman in the county of James City.
was delivered ol a very extraordinary child .
it had two heads and necks lour aims, toui
legs and thighs, and every other part dillintt
for two male children, except the body which
w.isentire —there were only the appeaiance ol
two teats, and one navel, but proportionably
larec for two fine children. It was conjectured
there was only one let of lunes and bowels;
and it uieafured over the hips one foot The
woman is likely to do well.
All the British ve'll-l, of war ou the Hal
ifax llation—together with the troop ,
have been ordered to, and have failed, tor
Jamaica—So fcurful is the Brit'-fi govern
t-ic tit of the fpreaci:i;e of the St. Dcaiingc
iiifurrectioti.
Well-India prints abound with circumfhn
tial accounts of the dii alien ifcu have happened
in feveici of ihc windward idands, in conse
quence ol the floods of rain that more or lels fell
in tbofe parts, from the beginning till near the
middle of ApiiL The town of Bad" terre, in
St. Kitts, has I uttered I'everely by the torrents of
water, which rufheu dowr. from the mountains,
and carried alrnofl every thing before them. Ne
vis has fuffered lightly ; but at St. Eudaiius the
effetts of this deluge of rain were tremendous;
where the whole loss is efumated at near 30,000
joes, besides Icveral lives ; amongd which, un
fortunately , was not included that of a baker, who
immediately alter this devaluation of nature, ad
vanced three divers upon the price of eacn loaf.
Extratl of a Idlerfrom Cape Francois April is
" Amidlt that unremitting fatigue of
nind and body that has for many months
>ast fell to my lot, I fiiitch a moment, to
nform you of our fitmtiou and prolpects.
It would seem that the complete revenge of
:he ancient Caribbsof this island, who were
extirpated by the Spaniards, is to fall upon
the devoted heads of theFrcnch: not for want
if ability in tliem to repel the evil.if united,
nit from those fatal diffentions which have
aeen carefullv nurtured by the infernal arts
'>f a blood-thirffy aristocracy, and which
threaten, nav, have nlmofl accomplished the
total ruin of French St. Domingo.—This
place is reckoned the ftrougefV in the ifl
ind, and yet do we by no means think
mirftlves secure from the town's beirtg ta
ken by an attack, if made with vigour, and
by 60 or to,ooo brigands, as we are threat
ened will soon be the cafe.—ln the western
diftri&s of the iiland, every thing wears the
1110 ft horrid appearance- The troops are in
.1 (late of anarchy, and subordination gene
-1 ally at an end. while the wretched remains
of Port-au-Prince are surrounded by an
:iiemy, from \\ hom an qttack is every mo
ment expected, and from whose mercy (if
conquerors) nothing is to be hoped —To
rive you an account of the various a'Xaflina
:ions, murders, tortures, and excell'es of
ilnioft every kind that have been commit
:ed within these few months would ask a
arge volume. Vast numbers of opulent
>eople arc reduced to a morsel of bread, by
he ruin of their plantations, and are goin;r
'many of them) almost pennylef. into so
eign lands, for the prefcrvation of an ex
igence which has become altogether preca
ious here. —We are willing to hope that
he ocean which surrounds Hilpaniola will
. heck the extension of the spirit of revolt;
or, if it (hould become general through the
(lands, it will require almost half Europe to
iibdue it.—As to myfelf, I will endeavor to
leave this once delightful, though now mi
erahle country, in all June ; a country
which has become alike ungrateful to the
ailor and the mechanic, to the merchant
and the philosopher—a country.
Where crucl paflfions the warm heart infefl
And banish pity from the human bread,
Where hostile ruffians draw the vengeful Made
And {lain with infant gore the blushing (hade!
I turn, difgufled, from this horiid scene
Of tortui'd captives, slaves, and murder'd men,
To where the far-fam'd Pennfylvanian ftravs,
Renown'd forjuflics, and for length of days."
"The celebrated Dr. Priestly (fays a pri
vate letter from London) aitho' not incon
olable, as a philosopher, for the loss of his
urious, mod valuable, and, unfortunately,
rrecoverable property, yet seems much
:hagrined that politics and religion, or his opi
-I.ons in both, Iho.ild have been the cause
>f so mtich wanton deftruOion. Tile tools
if religious and political phrenzy were set
lpon the good doctor (in the language of
Hudibras)
To rifle all his pairs and febs.
His jim-cracks. whims, andjiggum iohs :
ind the poor philosopher mult swallow the
ofs as well as he can. " Had he been a
iergyman of the church of fngland. of lit
tle or no reputation, and the injury been
l ine by diflenters, no punifhinent would
iuive been thought fnfficient for the perpe
trators of so much wickedness, and, in he
eves of the nation, the whole left would
have been thought deserving of extirpation.
Like the death of Charles the firft, the
r.nlt of it would have been entailed on our
latetl polferity."
The exorbitant intered which has been paid
111 this country for the use of money, for some
* ears pad, and the cafe with which the money
lenders have been enabled to evade the laws
againd usury, demondrate the neceflity of some
lecifive (lep to discountenance t'uch dangerous
L-xeeffes in individuals. If either the laws or
the cudoms of a country rffablifli a higher prof!.
on money loaned than can be obtained by em
ploying it in ufeful occupations, that country
givesadireft encouragement to usury and idle
-1 cfs, tending ultimately to bankruptcy, to beg
gary and to general ruin.—lt is a fa£t, well as
certained, thatfarmsin the middle and north
ern dates will not, on a fair average, rent for
more than four percent; houses, after every
reasonable allowance, will not rent at more
ihar. four and an half per cent; and the profits
upon commercial pursuits cannot average more
ill 111 about five percent net. In the present fitu
,n:on of the United States, it seems, therefore,
neeeflary to reduce the legal rates of intered to
it leu'! four per cent —if our legiflaturcs have
til? interefl of the merchant, the faimer, or the
n-jhufafturer at heart.£y - a tf (if a Litter from New York-—May 10.
"Among o (nrprizing inftaiices oi
fpect s-tingmadnefs.previoustothe burning
of the bubble, are the two following! Aboui
the ift of March, a plan of a lottery foi
railing one hundred thousand dollars, t<
defray the expences of the Indian war
was projected, and the following fragulai
f heme adopted: i.-0.000 ti.V--.-ts •at v.
dollars each, is i,000.p00 dollars,—On.
prize of 1 coc.cOo dollars aid 999.0 c
blr.nks. The ;>rize fubjeit to a deduclio:
ofiopercent. Col. 15 -and Mr. V. -1
two celebrated fpecularors were so iwvk
eve'd as to purchase up the whole ot theli
tickets at once, and the next day they weri
felling at an advance of jo per cent. 111 th.
Coffee house.
A farmer on LongTfland, proposed ti
dig a ditch across his land of i-co rods ii
length, and 4 feet in width, this was imme
dlately nolfcd through our city ; a fpecu
lator rode, to the farmer, pui
cha'ed tip the right of digging the ditch
and the next day Ditch Scnps were struck ol
at auction, for fifty dollars each. T<
♦mak«- payment for purchases, some oi thefi
fpeclilators borrowed money at 4 per cent
per month. But alas 1 the scene is total);
changed 1 all now isdulnefs and defponden
cy—the bells are continually tolling, ih
drums of our militia are muffled, and bea
a solemn dirge—countenances of all clalfe
of men have {fallen furprilmgly, and th
amazing length effaces is truly allomilnng
The butcher & baker, the barber & truck
man, have lent their hard earnings, at
, per cent per month, to a celebiated fpecu
lator, who now offers them iix pel Cents
at 30s. when they can fell in the mar,\e
for only 19s. Thole who have made t liei
thousands at a single bid, will now confen
to yield their pursuits for the painful tai
of acquiring property by shillings. Indee
I fancy we (hall Toon Tec other bankrupt
cies more diftrefling than those already ex
perienced, and which will involve hundred
in their ruins."
We are informed by a gentleman fron
\Augufta, (fays a Charleston paper of th
3d inft.) that a party of Indians lately cairn
down into Greene county, and ft >le a num
ber of horses. Some of the inhabitant
immediately collected, went in pursuit
overtook, and k lied two of them on tin
spot. the reft making their escape. But ii
a few days afterwards the Indians return
ed and revenged the death of their com
rades by killing two white people in tha
settlement ; after which they made a pre
cipitate retreat.
It was feared that this disagreeable cir
cumftance -would prevent or retard th)
running of the lines in contemplation.
South Carolina accounts, as late as th<
third of May, mention many additional in
fiances of di'ftrefs. from the floods of rai
that fell in that state the beginning of April
It is remarkable that this happened abou
the fame time with those heavy rains in th
Weft-Indies, which did so much damage i:
the iilands of Nevis, St. Euftatius, Bcc
Mam- particulars of devaluation, from th
extraordinary swell of the rivers, are enu
merated in the Carolina prints, of which W'
fliall only mention the following.—l h
Ccngaree, was raised to such a height as ti
overflow an eminence on the banks of tha
river, which had been used by the Indians
from time immemorial, for a burying place
The rapidity of the current dislodged th
fUelctons from their place of iriterriftent
carrying off a great part of the ioil, am
leaving disclosed to view, a variety of curi
oils urns, rude images of birds and beasts
wampum, bows and arrows, iione battle
axes, Bcc. See. affording a quantity of curi
ofities of this kind, not unworthy the no
tice of the philosopher. —It is probable -
similar swell in the Congaree river has no
happened for many ages, since, had this e
minence been fubjeft to an overflow, thi
Aborigines of the country would neve
have chosen it for a burying ground.
From the accounts of Fnfign Turner
who was taken prisoner by the Indians oi
the memorable 4th of November lift, tlv
spirit of a general nion amongst then
againli the intrulions of the white;, is gain
ing ground. His conductors informed bin
that the warriors of several tribes that hac
joined them were three moons on their jour
r.ey, so that we may fuppole some of then
to have come at least lix hundred mile
from the weft ward of the Miami villages-
After surrendering himfelf, Ensign Turnei
fuffered no other injury, except being strip
ped of his clothes; but was kept so mucl
by hinlfeff that he could learn nothing o:
the fate of the other nrifoners. His con
duftors left the field,' loaded with scalps
•which, from hurry, were taken off wit!
the fpougy fiefh ?dhering.thereto, and af
terwards scraped into their kettles, anc
eaten. He was soon after condlifted t (
Detroit by a parly of 12 Indian,, where he
•was ransomed for jol. in goods,.by a Britift
merchant.
Sir Joihua Reynolds, one of themoft ce
lebrated painters and men of genius of the
present age, died some time the latter end
of February last, in his 69th year—He had
the happiness to live in an enlightened na
tion, where the fine arts are held in eiteem;
ah;' ds;vtrt«?ci tY;s life Ufliverfally regretted
H;ul lamented.
" Perhaps (fay? a Norwich paper of the
ift instant) there never was a government,
at so early a period, verging Co fact to vena
lity, corruption, profusion, and de:triu-lio:'
as the American. Is there any oneof my
hortell countrymen, who doubts the truth oi
this aflcrtion, let him enquire, by what
means the funding system was brought a
bout—by whom it was brought about—who
knr.wb.forehandl\W it would, be brought about,
and what use they made of this foreknow
ledge. Let him inquire, why we have so
many court favourites in foreign countries,
as ambafladors, fnpported in the molt ex
travagant pomp and parade, while thou
sands of their countrymen by taxation, are
involved in ruin to gratify their vain ambi
tion. Let him inquire why these Ambal
fadors are negociating loans abroad, v. her
we have a surplus of money in the i rea
fury ; and if we had not, are poflefled oi
refonrces adequate to every exigence of the
State. And lastly, let him inquire, what i:
the tendency of such things, and if he does no'
fee destruction wide yawning, he maj
certainly fee Devils, and Devils' imps
which are n-ot imaginary."
A good deal of puffing ha-, been made ir
the late Fnglifh papers, about Mr. Pitt':
showing England ''a proud day" on tht
27th of February last, in consequence of;
supposed redufhon of taxes, and an excef
of the produce of ways and means over ac
tual expenditures, Sic. —It mull appear t(
every one who reads Fnglith newlpapers
and other of their periodical publication
\yith attention, that from the commence
ment of Mr. Pitt's administration there ha:
been a regular system of trick and decep
tion on Budget-days; and the result ha:
constantly been, a surplus at the time oi
opening the budget, and a deficiency wher
the account is made tip.
On the ift instant, at Charleston, the
books for receiving fnbfcriptions for *6;
(hares in the Santee Canal company were
opened in the city-hall, under the direflior
of the hon. Dr. David Ramsay, Thorn®
Jones, Esq. and Nathaniel Ruffel, Esq. fuel]
a crowd attended for the purpose, that ii
was extremely difficult to obtain access tc
the commifiioners; and at the clofmg of
the books, at two o'clock, there appeared
to have been nearly 2000 (hares fttbfcribetl-
The intended bridge over Rock-Creek, op
poGte the Federal city in Virginia, is now be
gun, under the immediate diretlion of Mr.
Harbaugh.
The Governor of the ifhr.d of St. Kitts, or
the 5111 ultimo. ifTued his proclamation, per
mitting the importation of lumber, flour, corn,
corn meal and ship fluff, into that island, from
the United States of America, until the 20th
day of May instant.
The followingfentimentsappearin the X.J. New
ark Gazette, of the 10th injlant. It is hopea
there are jew Americans who would subscribe tc
such ill- considered opinions:
Speaking of the conflfitution. the writer
!ays, " When the privilege of Writing and
speaking without reserve was granted, it
was done from this motive, that causes
would frequently occur in which the fertti
ments of the people ought to be known :
and it was supposed that a sense of commo 1
utility would ensure a moderate exerc ft
jf the privilege ; but is there not reason to
relieve that it would be beneficial to lay
-eftricHons on the pref, and to make it cri
minal for men either in conversation or in
>rint, tocenfure the government, or to ca
umniate its officers ? This is indeed a difa
;reeable alternative, but ltii! it is far better
:lian anarchy, and if the illiberal and abu
ivefpirit that has so long discovered itfe'lf
loes not cease, we may think ourfelve
lappy in being able thus to reltrict our pri
vileges. If individuals have not fufficient
efolution to refrain from abufuig their
•ights, they are better without than with
:hem." [Expede Herculem.~\
T".efollowivg paragraphs are frovi a correspondent" 1
It has been fuggeiled, that the bed me
:hod to facilitate the civilization of the
Indians and attaoh them to the United State ,
would be to encourage the intermarriage 1
:)f whites with them. Were Ito recom
mend a similar procedure in order to ex
:inguifh the prejudices which exist agairift
:he African race, and in a meafnre prevent
iheir incorporation as free citizens, three
fourths of your readers would turn from it
with disgust and call it a breach of good
manners and a trespass on the feelings of
refinement. This might be urged "with
lome degree of plausibility in part of the
United States. But that it has not in fail
taken place in many instances, I attribute
only to a deficiency of philosophic resolu
tion to encounter exilting prejudices which
.ire not.overcome without great difficulty,
even by tliofe who are fully persuaded thee
exiit only in imagination. To this cause
I may v.nture to attribute it, that so few
intermarriages of blacks and whites occur ;
for intercouiles of a similar nature are bv
no. rr.ev:i uncommon. The consideration
of its be'ng a duty incumbent 011 all parents
to provide for their offspring, should Itinni
late them to go one step farther, and fitatcli
fVoia slavery and wretchedness their yel
low defendants.
WHEN our prefect conftitntlon wa« pre»
lented to the citizens of the United States
tor acceptance, its patrons reiterated its
excellence by telling us there was no dan
ger ot encroachments upon the liberty of
the people. It wa; not like a bill of rights
which gave up every thing not particularly
excepted ; but greatly preferable, as every
thing seded was there defined, and so ex
actly that there was no danger of our Ifgif
utors furpafl!ag tbetn. This I fondly im
agined would have been the cafe, but alas '
! begin to tremble for my countrymen ; I
fear there is an irrefiffable propensity in all
governors to Aide into despotism. Nor
is this fear fuggefled by the writings of
Cauis, &c. but by occurrences in our na
tional councils ; nor can it be unfounded
when lawjs are paired which violate the
conftitutl'on, according to its interpretation,
by members who Hand high in the confi
dence of their constituents : If a majority
in Congress are to interpret the constitu
tion to l'uit their own sentiments, I can
perceive no use in having one ; we might
as well annihilate it at once, and submit
ourselves to their mercy.
It was intimated byfome writer, that the
public debt increased like the mu hroiitn un<
der the hand of night, by the instrumentali
ty of the speculators. In anftver to this ii
was said, (who that can read will believe? ]
that the speculators made their own certi
ficates, or enc reafed the fuirrs of them ■ 11
is a fact: well known, that in some of thf
northern slates, such tranfa&iohs were fre
quently praflifed, and we know many wen
foipofed on with the altered certificates, anc
I would thank some of your readers wht
can give information,- to let it be knowr
whether they could, in all cases, be dete£lec
when they were offered for funding ?
Somerhing more than a year ago, it wa
recommended to those who owned landec
property in England, todifpofe of it, as tht
parliament had palled a law prohibiting i
from pafling to the heir of the present pof
felfor, if he was a citizen of any foreigi
Itate or kingdom. A correspondent woulc
be glad of information on this fubjeit.
The President of the United States, b;
and with the advice andconfeiit of the Se
nate, hasmade the following appointment
and promotions in the army of the Unitec
States ;
Appointed—Rufus Putnam, Brigadier
Ceneral, Western Territory, vice Willet
declined.
Otho H. Williams, do. Maryland, vic<
Morgan, declined.
INFAN T R Y.
Appointed—William Powers, Captain
Pennfylvarlia, vice Guthrie, declined.
William Lowder, Captain, Virginia
vice Biggs, declined.
William Rickard, Lieutenant, N. Caro
lina, vice Sumner, declined.
Hartman Leitheizer, Ensign, Pennsyl
vania, vice Kelfo, declined.
C A V A L R Y.
Appointed—Jedediah Rodgers ( Captain
New- York, vice Craig, declined.
Henry Bowyer, do. Virginia, vice Man
ning, declined.
Promoted—William Winfton, do. do
vice, Watts, declined.
Tarlton Fleming, Lieutenant, do. vic<
Winltori, promoted.
Appointed—John Webb, jun. Cdrnet.
do. vice Fleming, promoted.
SURG E"O N' S MATES,
Appointed—Joseph Strong, Connecticut
vice Elmer, declined.
Joseph Andrews, Massachusetts, vice
Mease, declined.
John C. Wallace, Pennsylvania, vice
Woodhoufe, declined.
%* From the \JI of June evfuing, news
papers forwarded by the public mail are ti
pay one cent; each paper, for' one hundrec
miles or any dijlance under; and one cent
and ati half for any diflance, within tht
United States, exceeding one hundred miles 4
the poflage to be paid by the fubferibers, ai
the office where they are delivered. Subscri
bers to the National Gazette who wijh ti
receive their papers without this additiona
expense, will be pleased to direct, by uihai
other modes of conveyance they would choofi
to have them forwarded from the period a
hove mentioned.
SAVANNAH, May 3.
Yesterday the honorable James Iredell
and Nathaniel Pendleton, Eiqrs. gave judg
ment, in the Circuit Court, i'fi the interest
ing cafe wherein Samuel Brailsford and
others were plaintiffs, and Jamas Spalding
defendant. One of the plaintiffs (Mr.
Brailsford) was a real British fubjeit, being
a native of Great Britain, and having t elid
ed there from 1767 and the other
plaintiffs were citizens of South Carolina,
vvhdfe property (with an express exception
ot their debt) was confifcated in that state.
The Judges gave their opinions, with their
reasons al large, and the substance ot their
apinionswas, that, as Mr.Bradford's debts
were ftnly fequelWed by a law of the, {late,
upon which no further proceedings had ta
ken place, the treaty of peace, as confirm
ed by the conftitntion of the United States,
murt have the effect: of an express repeal of
that part of the ast of aflembly which had
created an impediment to his recovery ;
ind that there was no bar in refpeft to the
recovery of the other plaintiffs, ill as much
»s, uuder the ast of aflembly of this flrite
ifFectiug them, their debts were not confif
:ated, because their debts had not been Cort-«
ifcated in the state of South-Carolimi, the
let of aflembly of this (late making citizens
jf other liate; liable to the fame ineafure
jfforfeiture (and no other) in this Itate as
11 their own. They therefore gave judg
nent for the plaintiffs.
ThefMowing lines were written on a back-coun
try whose cvjiom it was to have his
neighbours cows milked, whenever they broke into
his pajlure.
WHAT ! did you think your milk of grace
would do
For Mafgaret's brats, that thus you robb'd theit
cow ? —
Poor imps!—how hard to live in leaky huts
And withfome meagre fcrmons fill your guts!
Because your cow fomc* 'Otten rails leap'd over
And fnatch'd a mouthful of the guid-man's clo
ver,
for this her milk in holy pails mud flow,
For this your breaklaft to the piieft must ge.
Good folks—obferve —altho' his mouth i< fliut
'Tis plain to fee he's had his eye-teeth cut:
With fid or foot can valiantly engage,
To prove the pulpit talons of the age ;
Celestial food to orphans he dispenses
And robs their cow—forjumping over fences !
Parson, adieu ! —how can you hope applause
Fiom efforts of your lungs or holy paws,
If thus you plunder what pooroutcafls need
And flarve the wretches whom you ought to
feed ? April 28.
Vlr Fr en ea u will oblige a cufiomsr by gluing tbt
following a place in bis paper,
A Serjeant and Private in Discourse.
aerj. DEFEAT and defeat, have we had,
Let us vvifh, for a lucky campaign,
Sol. In honour we all (hall be clad,
If we conquer, with Anthony Wayne.
Serj. St. Clair, J hare read, has refign'd,
Sol. (Sighing) Alas! arid btave Butler is dead*
Some fay, theree's a party combin*d»
To lay all the blame on his head*
ierj. May an inveft-igation, take place,
1 hen as sure, as theii's horns on a cow,
We tiiall find, a quite different cafe,
There's some will get fwump'd in a Slough*
PRICE of STOCKS.
Six per cents, per £. - 21/3
Three ditto - - 12/5
Deferred -ii ditto, - 12J10
1-2 ftiaret Bank Stock 42 to 44 per cent premium.
Shares Bank N. A. 15 ditto.
Indents 12/3
Final settlements, 18/6
Meteorological Observations.
May, 1792.
D. H Bar. Ther. Wind. H'eath.
Monday, 7. 6 50. 2 52 S.W. Cloudy.
2 fp. Ip 69 do. Fair.
Tuesday, 8. 6 30. j 55
Jw.N.wi Haiti.
g 30* » 61 S.W. Fair.
Wednesday, 9. 6 30. 15 49 n7W. Fair.
g 3°- 0 73 w.s.w do.
ThurJ'day, 10. 6 30. 1 55 s.s.W. Fair.
2 30- 1 82 S.W. do.
Friday, 11. 6 30. 1 60 S.W. Fair.
£ 3°- c do. do .
Saturday, 12. 6 29. 9 65 SW. Cloudy\
- 2 9' W. fhowcrs
Sunday, 13. 6 29. 85] 66 Is.W. Fir.
2 2 9* /7 ) do. fliawcrs
. TO THE PUBLIC.
THE Subjcr:ber has it in contemplation soon to
decline bis present b\ifinejs—and having on
band a conjiderable quantity ofj'upsrfine second and
c'afiic cloibs, together iv:th a variety of other arti
c ts in bis ivay, prepofei to fell them at the
Veduccdprices- V I Z 9
Btji Superfine navy blue 34.?,
Ditto. ditto. Scarlet 36*.
Common colours fuperfine 32 s.
Elafiic Jiripes 9s.
l*ondon buff and ivhite caffimers 1
Ditto, coloured do. 1 cr.
Yorkfoiri do. do, 13|/5,
Striped toilenets 14s.
Rattinets 3 s.
Striped Nankeens 3J4.
A Ivariety of luaijlcoatJhapes proportionably leu/,
Fancy buttons and trimmings do.
London btjiJilk bofe,from 22/6 to 241.
The above goods have been mofily imported from
>ne of the fir J} Mercantile bouses in London, and
ere of an equal quality to any imported into Amcri
:a j they lOill be Jold per piece or Jmaller quantity
us may befl suit thepurchafers j by th"publics
butnblc servant, JOHN SHEPHERD.
No, 3 South Fourtb-Jfreet•
May 14, 2aiv» tf.fcfitoarch as far as the committee are capable of
exprefling an opinion, appears to have been judi
cious, and the gromd lor aCtion well chosen 5
the retreat was disorderly in the extreme j aftei
it commenced no orders were obeyed it any were
given, the men having loft all regard to difci
pfine or controulj all the precautions appear tc
have been taken tor the fafety and com fort of the
wounded which the circumstances or the cafe
would admit of.
The committee have had no competent evi
dence before them to ascertain the number of th<
enemy in action—there were various conjectures
as to the number, from different persons from fiv<
hundred the lowed t« one thousand or twelve hun
dred the highest.
Mr. Barton, a witness examined by the com
mittee, conversed with g.'chfef at Niagara who wai
in the aCtion, and was by him informed, that th«
number of the enemy in aCtion was one thoufanc
and forty, and that fix hundred more had conve
ned, but were engaged in hunting 2t the time o,
the adion. He was also informed that the ene
my had not colleCted in any considerable number!
until a few day 3 before the aCtion. This informa
tion appears to be corroborated by some other cir
cumstances fufficient to induce a belief of the fad
in the committee*
The contia&ors for supplies agreeably to thi
terms of contract weie to Jurnifti horses, &c. foi
the transportation of the supplies ; in this condi
tion of the contract there was a total failure,
which compelled the commander in chief to di
red between fix and seven hundred horses to be
purchased by Israel Ludlow, one of the contrac
tor's agents, to draw bills on Mr. Duer, the aCting
contractor for payment, which bills were endors
ed by the commander in chief, to the amount cl
about seventeen thousand dollars, were proteftec
by the contractor, and paid at the treasury ; the
persons employed by the agents of the contra&or,
to drive the horses, appear to have been totallj
unacquainted with that business, and from the wanl
of bells, hopplr.s, and other neceflarics of thai
kind, as well as from other jjrofs mismanagement
many of the horses were loft, and others renderet
unfit for service; —from which causes there wen
not pack hoifes fufficient to transport the neceiTar
quantity of flour from Fort Wa/hington fur the uf<
of the army on their march: this circumstance re
tarded the execution of the expedition.
The officers agreeably to the terms of contraf
had an election of drawing the whole of the ra
tions, to which their rank entitled them, or of re
ceiving the contraCt price of them in cash j thi
contractor's agents not being furnifhed with mo
ney for this purpose gave rife to a general order
by which the office!- was directed to receive a cer
tificate from the cofitraCtor's agent called a du<
bill, of one of which bills the following is a copy;
" Due Major H. Gaither one hundred and se
venty-three complete rations 011 the route to Mi
ami village as appears by Mr.Wilson's certificate/
(Signed) MATT. EARNEST,
FortWafhington, forWM. DUER.
Nov. 27th, 1790.
This due bill ifl'ued upon the officer's figninj
some acknowledgment of fatisfaCtion for hi:
whole retained rations, which acknowledgment oi
fatisfaCtion foims a voucher for settlement to th<
contractor, with the treasury department j ant
the officer is refufed payment for these due bills a
the pay office, all cafuahies by which these evi
dences of debt become loft or destroyed, are th<
gain of th- contractor and the loss of the officer.
It is fuggelted by the Secretary of the Treasu
ry, though not with politive certainty, that a fuf
ficient sum will be found due from the treasury tc
the contractors upon a final settlement, to covei
all these debts to the officers $ the general ordei
which had the operation before stated, continuec
in force about five or fix weeks, and was abolifliec
about the 19th of October. The privates of thi
levies received but three dollars pay each, fron
the time of thei»- respeCtive inliftments to the iim<
of their respeCtive discharges, and were aCtuall;
discharged without further piy or feUlement
T:: :es ot viifcharge were given them, fpecifying th<
time of their service, and bearing indorsations
that some advancements had been made to then
in account, without stating the amount, the ob
jeCt of which is suggested to have been to preven
transfers j the intended effeCt was not produced b]
the mcafure \ the notes were fold for trifling con
liberation*, the real sums due on the notes wer<
various, from ten to twenty-five dollars, and the]
were frequently fold for one dollar, or one gallor
of whiikey \ the monies for the pay of the levies
did not leave Philadelphia till the 4th of Decern
ber, nor arrive at Fort Wa/hington till the 3d o:
January 1792, some time after the last inliflcd le.
vies were known to be entitled to their discharges;
two reasons have been assigned by the Secretary a
War for this delay of payment, the one, becaufi
there was no regular Pay-master to the army, ant
the difficulties of transmitting monies to the ar
my at so great a distance, in consequence of thi
want of such an officer j the other, because it was
supposed the army would be at that time at the
Miami village, so far advanced in the wilderness.
as not to admit of the practicability of discharg
ing the levies, the total defeat of the army not
having been previously counted upon.
The cloatbing for the levies appears to have
been of a very inferior quality, particularly coats,
hats, and ftioes, the last of which in many cases
lasted not more than four days, and better cloath
ing was furnifhed them upon their inlifting into
the regular service, which was for a time counte
nanced by the commander in chief.
Various modes appear to have been pursued by
the officers in inlifting the levies, which occasion
ed great uneasiness and some confufion j a consi
derable part of the Virginia battalion was so in
lifted, that the terms of their inliftments appear to
have expired the ift of November j the orders to
the recruiting officers appear not to have been
fufficiently explicit upon this point—whether the
terms of inliftment were to commence at the time
of inliftment, cr at the arrival at a place of ren
dezvous. The militia appear to have been com
posed principally of substitutes, and totally ungo
vernable, and regardlefsof military duty or fubor
dinirtion. It appears that the commander ir
thief had it in contemplation to commence the
ixpedition at least one month earlier than it was
:ommenced, with the force he then had, which
vaa not very different from the real force he had
n aCtion j but was previnted for the want of the
|uarter-mafter and contractor, and in consequence
»f the extreme deficiencies and derangements of
he business of those departments, the person sent
orward by the quarter-master being totally in
:ompetent for the business, and the contractor's
igents not being Efficiently supplied with money
:o enable them to execute their duties.
It appears to the committee, that in the wil
iernefs where vegetables are not to be had, and
:he duties of the soldier uncommonly hard, the
rations allowed by law, if completely supplied, are
inefficient. This circumstance, with others,
produced discontent and desertion among the fol
ders.
It appears to the committee that there were ap
propriated for the use of the War department, for
the year one thousand seven hundred and ninety
one, the furr. of fix hundred and fifty-two thou •
(and seven hundred and sixty-one dollars, and six
ty-one cents, and that there have been advanced
by the treasury to the war department, upon that
appropriation, five huhdred and feventy-five thou
sand, nine hundred and fix dollars, and fifty seven
:ents, to wit :
Dols. Cts.
1791 February advanced 15,000.
March do. 46,002. 20
April do. 100,106. 20
May do. 80,109. So
June do. 55»3 8 7« 44
July do. 14,105. 39
August do. 14,554. 59
September do. 14,796. 53
October do. 184. 81
November do. 107. 28
1792 January do. 33*753-
February do. 43,562. 61
March do. i»74i« *6
Amounting to 419,311. 1
To which add monies bo/rowed
from the bank of North-Ame
rica cn loan without interest, 156,595- 5^
575,906. 57
And that the treasury has always been in readi
ness to make the requisite advances upon the re
quest of the Secretary at War. It does not ap
pear to the committee in what manner, and to
what amount these advancements have been dis
bursed, the accounts noc having been yer fettled at
the treafury-a-nor was it poflible, from the nature
of the cafe, that they could at this time, have
received any concluiive or fatisfaCtory information
on that point.
(From the foregoing state of faCts, the committee
suggest the following as the principal causes, in
their opinion, of the failure of the late expedi
tion, under Major-General St* Clair.
The delay in furnifhing the materials and esti
mates for, and in pafiing the aCt for the protec
tion of the frontiers, the lime after the pafiing of
which was harily fufficient to complete and disci*
pline an army for such an expedition, during the
summer months of the fame year.
The delays confcquent upon the gross and vari
ous mismanagements and negleCts in the quarter
master's and contractor's departments ; the late
(nefsof the season at which the expedition was un
dertaken, the green forage having been previous
ly destroyed by the froft, so that a fufficiency of
fubfifterce for the horses necefiary for the army
jpould not be procured.
The want of discipline and experience in the
troops.
The committee conceive it but justice to the
commander in chief to fay, that in their opinion,
the tailure of the late expedition can in no respeCt
be imputed to his conduCt, either at any time be
fore or during the aCtion ; but that as his conduCt
in all the preparatory arrangements was marked
with peculiar ability and zeal, so his conduCt du
ring the aCtion furnifhed strong teitimonies of his
coolness and intrepidity.
The committee suggest as reasons for leaving
the number of the troops at particular periods,
and the dates of some faCts blank, the want of
fufficient time to complete the report with minute
ness, and in some inflances, the want of the neces
sary evidence.
The said report being read,
Resolved, That this House will early in the
next feflion proceed to take the fame into consi
deration.
ExtraCt from the Journal,
JOHN BECK.LEY, Clerk.
AUTHENTIC.
SECOND CONGRESS
OF THE
UNITED STATES.
At the firft: Seflion, begun and held at the city of
Philadelphia, in the State of Pennsylvania,
on Monday the twenty-fourth of OCtoher, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-one.
/In ACT authorijing the grant and conveyancc cf
certain lands to the Ohio Company of sfffbeiates•
BE it enabled by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress ajfembied, That a
certain contraCt exprelied in an indenture execu
ted on the twenty-seventh day of OCtober, in the
year one thousand seven hundred and eighty se
ven, between the then board of treasury for the
United States Of America, of the one part, and
Culler, and Winthrop Sergeant, as
agents for the oireCtorsof the Ohio Company of
afiociates, of the other part, so far as the fame
respeCts the following described traCt of land j
that is to fay : " Beginning at a station where
the western boundary line of the seventh range
ps townships, laid out by the authority of the Uni
ted States in Congress afi'embled, interleCts the
river Ohio 5 thence extending along that river
south-westerly to a place where the iveftern boun
dary line of the fifteenth range of townfiiips
when laid out agreeably to the land ordinance
palled the twentieth day of May, one thousand
seven hundred and eighty-five, would touch the
said river j thence running northerly on the fain
weitern bounds of the laid fifteenth range of town
(hips, 'till a line drawn due east to the weftem
boundary line of the said seventh range of t
(hips, will comprehend, with the other lines 01
this tract, seven hundred and fifty tboufand acre:
of land, belides the l'everal lots and parcels ci
land in the laid contract reserved or appropriated
to particular purposes j thence running eait t(
the western boundary line of the said feveikh rangt
of town(hips, and thence along the said line tc
the place of beginning," be and the fame is here
by confirmed : And that the President of th:
United States, be and he hereby is authorized and
empowered to iiTue letters patent in the name and
under the seal of the United States, therebv
gianting and conveying to Rufus Putnam, Ma
nafleh Cutler, Robert Oliver, and Griffin Green,
and to their heirs and assign?, in fee simple, the
said described tradt of land, with the reservations
in the said indenture expreflcd, in trust for the
persons composing the said Ohio company of as
fociates, according to their fever a i rights ana in
terefts, and for their heirs and alligns, as tenant!
in common.
And be it further enaEiedy That the Prefideni
be and he hereby is further authorized and em
powered, by letters-patent as aforelaid, to gran:
and convey to the said Rufus Putnam, Manai
feh Cutler, Robert Oliver and Griffin Green, anc
to their heirs and alligns > in trust, for the ufel
above exprefled, one other tradt of two hundrec
and fourteen thousand two hunored ana eighty
five acres of land. Provided) That the said Ru
fus Putnam, Manalleh Cutler, Robert Oliver
and Griffin Green, or either of them, ill ail deli
ver to the Secretary of the Treasury within fn
months, warrants which ifTued for army bounty
lights fufiicient lor that purjiofe, according t<
the provision of a refolveol Cougiefs <>i ihe twen
third day of July, one thoufai;d seven hundre<
and eighty- seven.
And be it further enacted, That the Prcfiden
be and he hereby is further authorize i and em
powered by letters-patent as aforefaid, to gran
and convey to the lata Rufus Putnam, Manallel
Cutler, Robert Oliver, and Griffin Green, and t<
their heirs and alligns, in-fee simple, in tiuftfo
the uses above exprelied, a fai ther quantity o/ on<
hundred thousand acrcsofland. Frcvided aizvay
nevertheless, That the said grant of one hundrt<
thousand acres (hall be made on the exprefscon
dition of becoming void, for luch part thereof
as the said company lhall not have, within tav«
years from the palling of this a&, conveyed ir
fee simple, as a bounty and free of expense, ir
tracts of one hundred acres, to each male person
not less than eighteen ) ear's of age, being an ac
tual settler at the time of luch conveyance.
And be it further enaEiedy That the said <juan
Cities of two hundred and fourteen thousand, two
hundred and eighty-five acres, and of one hun
dred thousand acres, ihall be located within the
limits of the Cra£fc of one million, five hundrec
thouland acres of land, described in the inden
ture aforefaid, and adjoining to the tra& of lane
described in the firft fe&ion of this a£t, and in
such form as the President in the letters-patent
(hail prescribe for that purpole.
Jonathan Trumbull, Speaker of th
House of Representatives,
Richard Henry Lee, 'Prcfiden,
pro tempore of the Senate,
Approved, April tzuenty-frfh 1792.
G. Washington, President of tJh
United States.
P AR I S, March 1.
The three Generals are Itill at Paris. Luck
ner is iuppofed to ad vile war, Rochambeau peace ;
and Fajette an often five war in preference to de
fenfive.
Adivifionis talked of among the mir.iftry.
of which the minuter of marine is the cause.—
Two of his colleagues are of opinion, that it i
impossible to lupport a man againlt whom thi
public opinion is f® pointedly deciaied j and the
reft, that he ought not to relign, and mult bi
supported.
The Emperor's answer to the king's late re
presentations, was communicated to the aiplo
matic committee on Tuelday, and is expected t«
be laid before the aflembJy tins day. it is Jon-fe
and elaborately ambiguous. The substance or
the most favorable interpretation is,
That his imperial majelty dues not wi(h U
deflroy his alliance with hanie j that he nevci
meant to interfere in the internal affairs of th
kingdom, nor todilturb the order of things eila
blilhed by the new coiiftitution—only feeing the
person of the king in danger, and the kingdon
threatened with a total dii2blut;on of government
he entered into engagements with the other pow
ers of Europe to luccour the king and his king
dom, if neceflary J that the political ltace ui
Europe, and the rank which France holds in it,
mrde such engagements necefl'ary to save hei
fiom ruin 5 that thele engagements still cxiiV 3
but that the executi-a of tnern depends on vvha-l
(hall pals in France; and that if the person ol
the king (hall be menaced, if the republican
spirit (hall make such progre!s as to attempt the
subversion <-f trie monarchy, hisimpcnal majesty
will find himfelf obliged to interfeie, in concert
with the other powers who have an interclt in
maintaining the order and the balance ol Eu
rope. It inveighs againlt the icpublican ipi
rit 2nd the Jacobin Societies, and conclude:
with a requjfition for publifliing it, that France,
and all Europe, may be informed ol hh
imperial majeitv's cefire to live in peace with
the French nation, as long as the king, an v
the new constitution accepted by him, (hall b;
refpetted as they ought'.
Yelterdav the Pruifjan minister prcfented a de
claration, profefiing the adherence of his mafte
to all the points of the emperor's aoi .vcr.
UPWARDS of fix months being elapfcd
since the fird publication of this paper, and the
subscription having fucceeaed beyond the Edi
tor's mod sanguine expectations, he no-v bega
leave further to solicit the attention of the peo
ple of the United States to a publication which
he truUs will at all times be found truly republi
can iri its principles and tendency, as well as in
flrutlive and entertaining to every denomination
of readers.
The National Gazette will continueopen, as
it has hitherto been, to all kinds of political dif
cuflion, without partiality to parties or opinions,
provided ftich difcuflions are conducted with
decency.
The mod authentic and important domedic
and foreign intelligence will be given, so di-*
gefled as to convey the greated variety of in
formation in the briefed manner possible.
The Editor will also endeavor, as far as his
bounds will permit, to gratify the lover, of mere
literary amulement, in essays, &c. adapted to
that purpose.
The laws of the United States, Secretaries
Reports, and proceedings of Congress, will al
ways occupv n considerable pan of the papei
during the feflion, as being supposed particular
ly intereding to every description of readers.
The National Gazette will be publifhcd, as
heretofore, on Monday and Thutfday mornings.
The price. Three Dollars per annum ; one half
to be paid at the time of fubferibing, and one
dollar and an half at the expiration of every fix
months afterwards —exclusive of charges of pod
age and conveyance.
PHILIP FRENEAU.
Philadelphia, May 5. Market-Street. No. 2C,g.
THE fulferiher teg; leave to atquair.t H?
friend* *nd the public in general, that be
has removed from Pennington to that noted tavern
and ferry Jland opposite to Eajlon, on the Jersey
fide of the Delaware, II e has provided birijef
with a good and fafe set of ferry.ei acts, andpurpo•
fes keeping the befi entertainment for rrav and borfe.
Every attention jball be paid to gentlemen travellers
.1 vd others by the public's incjl obedient and very
humble servant,
THOMAS BULL MAN,
May Bth 1732. —
( 5 10 law.)
IVaJhirgton, m the Territory of Columbia.
A PREMIUM
OF 500 dollars, or a medal of that value,
at the option of the party, will be giv
en by the Commissioners of the Federal
Buildings to the person who, before the
Ifteenth day of July next, lhall produce to
them the mod approved plan, if adopted by
them, for a President's house to be erefled
in this city. The site of the building, it'
the artist will attend to it, will of courlS
influence the afpeft and outline of his plan,
and it's destination will point out to him
the number, size, and distribution of the
apartments. It will be a recommendation
of any plan, if the central part of it may be
detached and erected for the present, vvitH
the appearance of a complete whole, and
be capable of admitting the additional parts,
in future, if they lhall be wanting. Draw
ings will be expe£fed of the ground plats,
elevations of each front, and feftions
through the building in such direftio::? as
may be necedary to explain the internal
ftruiture ; and an estimate of the cubic feet
of brickwork, composing the whole mass of
the walls. The Commissioners.
March 14.
Wajhingtem, in the Territory of Columbia.
A PREMIUM
OF a lot in this City to be designated by
impartial judges and 500 dollars ; or a
medal of that value, at the option of the
party, will be given by the Ccmmiflioners
of the Federal Buildings, to the person,
who, before the fifteenth day of July 1792,
lhall produce to them the molt approved
plan, if adopted by them, for a Capitol to
be erected in this city, and 250 dollars, or
a medal for the plan deemed next in merit
to the one they lhall adopt. The building
to be of brick, and to contain the following
apartments, to wit. _ c „ . ..
A conference room 7 Sufficient to
A room for the Re- f a «°nimodate
preventatives J peifons
A lobby or antichamber to the latter. '
A Senate.room of 12CO square feet
area.
An intichamber or lobby to the last.
; 2 rooms of 600 square feet area, each, for
:ommittee rooms and clerks offices, to be
if half the elevation of the former. Draw
ngs will be expected of the ground plats,
elevations of each front, and feftions
:hrough the building in such directions as
may be neceflarv to explain the internal
[frtiihire, and an estimate of the cubic feet
as brickwork composing the whole mass of
the walk. The Commissioners.
March 14.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS and S W A 1 N 1^
AT IHtIR orrict, NO. 2 CQ, HIC H-ST S>. E r
NEAR FI T T H-ST REE T,
PHILADELPHIA.
o ,-J
2 5
"i
---n> O
p
§ °
? cr
a»