Vol. I.
Report on Makuiactures,
(Continued*)
s K. i :J S.
THtRt ma- ab'o be thil argument in favor o'
an iijcr.'H <- intj. " lie is ot important
enough t> cUinr decisive encouragement, am
the p'rogrefs >v'nich ins bsen made, leaves noroon
to apprehend any inconvenience on the (core o
lu ppfv from fucli an incr'afe.
It would be of benefit to this branch, if glue
« ich is no*.v rated ar five per cent, were mad.
tii- .>bj«l »f »o'.*cl" J .<oj duty. It i« si-ear•
Biads in Urge quantities at various tanneries
and, like papi-r, is an entire economy of maieri
air, which, if not ;nanufaa-Jted, would be left ti
pcrifh. It may be plated with advantage in th
class of articles pa-iM fifteen per cent.
grain.
M.itwf«aoret of the several fpccies of ttlis ar
tier have a t'rtle to peculiar f*xar ; nat onlj be
c.-ufc tbe* #!e molt of tl.rm i timcdiately conned 1
c.l with the fubfirtence of tl:e citizen*, trat becaul
t-icy enlarge the demand for the mod pfeciou
products ot .ite fid.
Though Hnur may with propriety be noticed a
a of grain, it were useless to do it
hut for tiie psrp-rt'e of ftibmitting the expedient;
oi - crrl eral l'vt*em of inf'peftion, throughout til
"of the United Spates ; which, if eltabliflie.
U uMpatt principles, would be likely 10 im
luoy* the oiislity of our /lour every where, ani-t
faife its reputation 111 foreign markets. 1 her
are however ennfiderations which (land in the wa;
of fuctr an arrangement.
Ardent spirits and jn:h liqttors are, next t
fiour, the two principal manufactures of jrai.i.—
Till- liitt has made a very cxii::if:v , the last
contiderable progre,# in the United States. In fe
fpe£t to both, an exeiuftve poficfiion of the h; ai
market ought to be secured rothe domestic manu
fafturcrs, as fad as citcurtjllances will admi
re thing is naoie praflkable, and nothicg taor
definable.
The exiting laws of the United Stateshavi don
much towards attaining this valuable object j bu
fotre additions to the prafent duties, on fjreigi
diltilled spirits, and foreign malt liquors, an'
perhaps an abatement of those on home made fpi
rits, would more effectually secure it j and ther
does not occur any very weighty objc&ion to either
Ac '~.rvr< — ;rr " "f rtre dotiet 'n .UWWJfc"
fpiitts vittuid favor, as well the (Hftiilation o
spirits from molsflefl, as that from grain. An.
to secure to the nation the benefit ot a rnanufac
ture, even of foreign materials, always o
great, though perhaps of secondary importance.
A strong imprefiion pievails in the minds 0
tiiofe concerned in distilleries (including too th.
most candid and enlightened) that greater differ
ences in the ratea of duty on foreign and domes
tic spirits are necessary completely to secure th.
fuccefs.'ul manufacture of the latter; and ther,
are fails which entitle this imp»ellion to attention
It is known, that the price of motafl'es far fjnn
years pad, has been tuccefiively rising ill th'
Weft-India markets, owing partly to a compe
tition which did not formerly cxift, and partly tt
an extenfiori of demand in this country ; and i
is evident, that the late disturbances in thof
iHands, from which we draw our principal sup.
ply, mult so tar interfere with the produ£!ion o
the article, as to occasion a mateiial enhance
ment of price. The deftrudtion and devaliatioi
attendant on the infurreftion in Hifpaniola, it
particular, mull not only contribute very raucl
to that eflredl, but may be expected to give i
J'ome duration. These circumffances, and tii*
duty of three cents per gallon on molasses, maj
render it difficult for the distillers of that materi
al to maintain, wirh adequate profit, a competi
tion, with the rum brought from the Weft-ln
dies, the quality of which is so conliderably su
perior.
The consumption of geneva or giri in this coun
try is extensive. It is no: long since difiilleriei
of it hsve grown up among us, to any imporranct*.
They arc now becoming of confequrnce, but be
ing still in their infancy, they require protection.
It is reprefeated, that the price of foxne cf tht
materials ia greater here, than in Holland> frorr
which place large quantities are brought—-th<
price of labor considerably greater—the capitals
engaged in the bufcnefs there much larger, thar
those which are employed here—the rate of pro-
Jits, at which the undertakers can afford to car
ry it on, much less—the prejudices, in favor ol
imported gin, strong. These circumstances ar<
alledged to outweigh the charges, which attend
the bringing of the article from Europe to th<
United States, and the present difference of duty,
so as toobftruft the prosecution of the manufac
ture, with due advantage.
Experiment could perhaps alone decide witl
Certainty the justness of the suggestions, which
are made ; but in relation to branches of manu
facture so important, it would fecm inexpedient
to hazard an unfavorable ifiue, and better to erx
on the fide of too great, than of too small a dif
ference, in the particular in question.
It is therefore hibmitted, that an addition o!
two cents per gallon be made to the duty on im
ported spirits of the firrt class of proof, with a
proportionable encreafe on those of higher proof ;
and that a deduction of one cent per gallon b*
made from the duty on spirits diftillsd within the
United States, beginning with the class oi
proof, and a proportionable de<2usicn from the
duty on these of higher proof.
V>v PHILIP Ft ENEAU.
MONDAY, January 9, 1792.
It is ascertained, that by far the part
• f t)i'* malt liquors confumedin the L'nited State?
are the produce of domcftic breve::.'*. It is cie
(irable, and* in al! lih Hi-hood, attainable, tha:
the v/hoJeconfuntptioji fccoiid be supplied by our
fcl vc •.
The malt liquors, rr.nde at lioinf, though in
ferior to the bs!% arc equal to a great part o
tlv>fe, which nave been ulu?i!y imported. Ihi
progrcf* already made is aa eaineft of whft
may be accomplished. The growing competitio:
is an a;Turahce of iniprovc men r. 1 his vaj.l b>
accelerated by measures, tendinjrio invUe a
C4fiti»i into this-.channel of employtnent.
To tender the encouragement or dome/li
brewsries decisive, it may he fMtifeable to tdh
tHture to iHe ou&nt rates of" doty eighteenth pe
gallon gs .erafciy j and jt will defafve to be con
liJerea as a gu,ard againfl invaftons, whethe
there onjjbt not to be a prohibition of their im
•>ortation, except in calks at Considerable cap
city. It is so be hoped, that foch a.doty woul
banift from the market, for-eig-n rnalt liqaori o
;nf. quality j and that the best kind on!
vouid c.xrmue to bi imported till it fhoold b
supplanted, by the efforts of equal ikiJl or fcaie a
home.
Till tliat period, the importation so qualified
would be an ufeful rtimulus to improvement
And in the mean time, the of the en
creased price, for the enjoyment of a luxury, h
order to the encouragcmcftt <;f a molt useful brand
>f domc;i:c indnftry, could not reasonably b>
Jeepvd a hardftiip.
further aid to manufactures of grain
though upon a frnalJer ft ale, the articles bfftarch
ivur ptjwder,, and wafers, may with great propri
cty ba placed among those, which are rated a
fifteen per cent. No manafu&ures are more sim
pie, nor more completely within, the reach or
r "til sup ply, frcm dbnieftlc foiirces j 3nd it is
policy, as common as jt is ot-vious, to roak
them the objects either of prohibitory duties, o
of exprefa jwohiljitipn.
FLAX and HEMP.
Manufactures or' these articles have so muc!
affinity to each other, and th/cy are so often Men
ded, that they may with advantage be Confidere
in conjunction. The importance fvf the linei
branch io agriculture—its precious e&'e&a upoi
houCiotd induftry—rhe ease, with which the mn
Si/r: ,'iC .iVc L 1
extent- —the great advances, which have been a 1
ready -made, in the coarser fabrics of them, elpc
cially in the family way, constitute claims, o
peculiar force, to the pationage of government.
This patronage may be afFurded in variou,
wavs j by promoting the growth of the materials
by encre3hng the impediments to an advantageou
competition of rival foreign articles ; by direC
bounties or premiums upan the bome manufac
ture.
Eirft. As to promoting the growth ef the ma
tcrlaiu .
Jn refpfcft to hemp, (omethinjj nas been ajrea
dy done by the high c!ury upon foreign hemp. I
the facilities for riomcftic production wore not un
usually great, the policy of the duty, on the fo
reign raw material, would be highly queftionabic
as interfering with the growth oi manufactures o
it. Bat making the proper allowances for thof<
facilities, and with an eye to the future and ni
tural progress of the country, the raeafure doe:
not appear, upon the whole, exceptionable,
A (trong wilh naturally suggests itfelf, tha
some method could be deviied of affording a mori
dired encouragement to the growth both of fla:
and hemp j lucli as would be eftcctual, and a
the fame time not attended with too great incon
veniencies. To this end, bounties and premi
umsrfjffer themselves to i•onjideraticn j but no rno
dification of them has yet occurred which wjuh
not either hazard too rnucli expence, or operati
unequally inrefeience to the circumllances of"dif
ferent parts of (he Union ; and which woilJ no
be attended with very great diliiculties in thi
execution.
Secondly. As to encreaßng thi impediments t
an advantageous competition of rival foreign arti
c/es.
To this purpose, an augmentation of the duttr
on importation is the obvious expedient ; which
in regard to certain articles, appears to be recom
mended by fufScient reasons.
The principal of these articles is Sail-cloth :
one intimately connected with navigation and de
fence ; and of which a flourishing
ls eftabl»{hed at* Boston, and very promising one 1
at several other places.
It is presumed to be both fafe and advifeable tr
place this in the class of articles rated at 10 pei
cent. A strong reason for it relulfs from the con
iiderauoA that a "bounty of two pence sterling pei
ell is allowed, in Great-Britain, upon the ex
portation of the fail-cloth manufactured in that
kingdom.
It would likewlfe appear to be good policy tc
raise the duty to 71-2 per cent, on the following
articles. Drillings, ofnaburghs, ticklenburghs,
dowlas, canvas, brown rolls, bagging, and upon
all other linens the lirftcoft of which at the place
of exportation does not cxcced 35 cents per yard.
A boortty of 12 1-2 per cent, upon an average,
on the exportation of such or similar linens from
Great-Britain, encourages the manufacture ol
them in that country, and cncrcafes the obstacle;
to a fuccefsful competition, in the countries tc
hich they arc fcnr.
T J|qu;\ntfWid oft&w an<J- other houflwld !.'
•,ci »,.janirfa^u-re d in ditrrren< parts of me L T n>-
o Jv«tes, and tlx? expirations, which .p.' d_-
, iveitifrom feme late esppiimf 's, of being ab'.c
:o c*t?rsd the ti£e of ri :chii s v i'
:hc cA<nler fabrics of Jinen» tji«»are the danue!
>f from an encreafe ot tV dut\
11, K>n fuvh av. Sots. ?,nd eurh-ori.'e a b'-p" r '-
f|'<-»xU,,a-r.d C'i'vt-i! t*. fucce.'s to the endeavors;
which may b<-* ufeti for pocuring an internal fpp •
ply.
T*, 4 rc'!y. Ai to d\rt3 Icitfitiss, or premium,
its :•: ;ic in.it-.ufjZitr ed articles,
"1 i:-.ore fP.Vciui'.i ewcoiK lament to t im
m.; /ii'ridu'f, anil *c <ht f<»me time to promon
' % ■ . ~ .... f" r the '■* nelic « f rn
it will be cf Jrc'.t use to alow a bount'
of wo cents per vard on all fail-cloth which i
mJKje in the United States, f>"m material* o
the r own growth. This would alio a.hit rl.<
cuLure of th'ofe materials. An encourage
rncstof this if adopted, ought to l)e«fta
Miffed for a. moderate teisi of years, to rnvite t
new undertakings, and to an excerjfiun,ot- the. olu
'i Iv.s is an article of importance enough to war
run v .the empioym-ntr of extra.oKdinar) means ii
its avor.
COTTON.
*t"here is fomethlngin the texture of this mate
r'uh which adapts it in a peculiar degree to the
of machines. The signal utility ot th<
m *!•'for fuinning of cotton, not long lince invent
ec "a England, hae been noticed in another place
b * *. ! >ere are other machines scarcely inferior i«
uriity, which, in the difrerent manufactories o
tins article are employed either excluSvely, or witl
mKt than ordinary efFeCt. This very impottan
ci recommends the fabrics of cotton, ii
More particular manner, to a Country in .vhic 1
a -JeCt of hjnds constitutes the greatest obftacl
to^'nccefs.
"Fh* variety and extent of the uses to which th
m.nufa«ftures of this article are applicable, is ano
tk r powerful argument in their fa»vor.
And the faculty of the United Stages roprodno
tit* raw material in abundance, and of a qualit)
■a' ch though ailedged to be' inferior to some tha
rudoced in other quarters,, is neverthfclefs capa
b ; being used with advantage, in many fabrics
'' .pt'vbabthf- susceptible of feeing carried by ,
- ■■ ' c i •, n.Mi'b ■TfxLcr r>-rfec
[ion, an additjonaT ana a vsry cogentin
<#tfceonent to the vigorous piirfuit o-6 the cottoj
branch, in its Xeveral fubdivilions.
Haw much has been already done has b.een fta>te<
ii> a preceding part of this report.
In addltiofi to this, it may be announced-, that;
society is foMning with a capital which Is expect
«4 to be extended to at least half a million of dol
on behalf of which measures are already ii
train for prosecuting or> a large scale, the makinj
and printing of cotton goods.
The lie ciicuniftances coaipire to indicate the-ex
petliency of removing any o-bliruiiions which inaj
r>a^>p«n to exist, to the advantageous profccutiOi
of the manufactories in question, arvd of adding
Tuch encouragements as may appear necefiary an<
proper.
The present duty of three cent£ per pound on tlx
foreign raw material, is undoubtedly a very feri
oos impediment to the progress of those manutac.
: ories.
The injurious tendency of f:milar duties, eithe:
prior to the eftabliftiment, or in the infancy of thi
iomeftic manufacture of the article, as it regard;
the manufacture, and their worse than inutility
in relation to the home production of the materia
itfelf, have been anticipated, particularly in dif
culling the fubje£t of pecuniary bounties.
•Cotton has not the fame pretentions* with hemp
to form an exception to the general rule.
Not being, like homp, an universal produ&io!
of the country, it affords less aiFurance of an ade
quate internal (upply ; hut the chief obj ftioi
aii les from the doubts, which afe entertained ion'
cerning the quality of the national cotton. It i
alledged, that the fibre of it is considerably (hort
tr and weaker., than that of some other places
and it has been observed as a general rule, that tin
nearer the place of growth to the equator, trie bet
u r the quality ai the c«t:on. That which come;
I'lom Cayenne, Surinam and Demarara is said tc
be preferable, even at a mateiial dilfetecce of price
to the cotton of the Islands.
While a hope may reasonably be indulged, thai
with due care and attention the national cottor
may be made to approach nearer than it now doe:
to that of regions lomewhat more favored by cli
mate, and while fadts authorise an opinion, tha
very great use may be made of it, and that it is ;
lefotuce which gives greater security to the cottor
labrics of this country, than can be enjoyed by am
which depends wholly on external supply, it wil
certainly be wife, in every view, to let our infan
manufactures have the full benefit of the best ma
terials on the cheapcft terms. It is obvious thai
the necessity of having such materials is propor
tioned to the unfkilfulr.efs and inexperience of thi
wotkmen employed, who, if inexpert, will not fai
to commit great waste, where the materials the)
are to work with are of an indifferent kind.
To secure to the national manufactures so eilen
tial an advantage, a repeal of the present duty or
imported cotton is indilpcnfable.
A substitute for this, far more encouraging tc
domeilic production, will be to grant a bounty or
the national cotton, when wrought at a home ma
nufactory j to which a bounty on the export.itior
Numb. 2-1.
•fit foa'.- branded,. £irh°r <5Y would & t
nuch mctc ; .v nu promoting the gr<wrh ot t fie
jri;cl ■, fir.- in / r r.r r.-'i en< ouragemen •,
vVhich it i- prf'i -, ed tp he ft.'ifr would
?lfv> have a a*ire6t infH.er.ce Iji er.co*raging the ma-
DiifaCVure.
The bounty wl.;cb ha? mentioned ns ex• l
ing in Gteau ; nfcir, upon t»e qxp Ttation "f
iioarle Jin arts ivot erc-'cdir.g a certain value, a; ps
ajfo so certain description* 01 cotton goods cf fimi
\-dt value.
This futnifhes an addirional argumrntfor al
lowing to the national ma-naf aCturers the ipe».-s
a£ edcouxirent j.-jft t\rs3«4se<t* a.id in kerf .-re
jd f&me qiUQ> .. ; «l»
One ccd'. per y.anl, flof lets than of a g!
width, on ail goods, of corton v or cf cotton and
linenmmixe r which 3re manufactured in the Uni
ted States, with the addition of one cent per pound
weight of the material,- if made of national cotton,
would amount to an aid of conlidera.ble impor
tune?, both TO the pi"odi-C.ii.>n and to the manufac
ture of that valuable article. And it is conceived,
that the would be well jurtiiied by the
Qr the o l d.ieit.
The printing and fvainin® of cotton i»
jcnowi) tivbg a diftincl bafmefs from the fabrica
tion of them* It is one eafiJv accomplished, and
which - , as it adds materially to the value oi the
article in its white state, and prepares it for a vari
ety o/ ney use«, is of importance to be promoted.
As imporisfd cotteni, equally with those which
are made at home, may b* the objeCts of th = s ma
nufacture it will merit confederation, whether toe
whole, or a part of thf duty,, on the white good?,
aught not to be allowed So be drawn back in favor
of tbofe, who print or.stain them. Thia measure
would certainly operate as a powerful encourage
ment to the business 5 and though it may in a de
gree counteraCfc the original fabrication of the ar
tic. r e«» k wou!<rprobabW more than compensate ror
this disadvantage» in the rapid growth of a colla
teral branch, wh?ch js.pf a nature sooner to attain
to maturily• When a fuffipient progress {bait
have been made, the drawback, may be abrogated,,
and by that time the domellic supply rrf the arti
cles to bfrprinted «or ijained will have been ex
tended.
JUhtf* duty of fovan 4nd an half per cent, oa
certain kinds of cotton goods were extended to all
_o,o*tfi of cotton, or of whVeh it W the principal ma
if 1 C^yntfifba
lance the effect of tire drawback pronofed, in rehi
:ion to the fabrication of the articte. ' And no
material objection occurs to such an extenfmn.
The duty then, confideving all the circumstances
Ahich attend goods of this defoliation, could nOC
i>e deemed nigh; and it may be
nferred.fr.ora various 5: that the prices of them
would ftrtl continue moderate.
Manufactories of cotton goods*.to t long flnce
;ftablifhed at Bevetly", in Massachusetts, and at
Providence, in the state of Rhode-Island, and
?ondu&ed with a perseverance corresponding with
he patriotic motives- whiSh begafi them, seem to
have overcome the urft obstacles- to success ; pro
lucing corduroys, velverets, fyftians, jeans and
)tbes similar articles \>f a quality, w'bich will bear
1 comparison with the Jike articles brought from
Vlanchcfter. The one at Providence has the me
it of being the firft in introducing into the United
states, the celebrated cotton miHj which not on
y furniflies materials for that manufactory itfelf,
)ut for the supply of private families for hoDfhald
nanufadlure.
Other manafa&ories of the fame material,- as
egular buftnefTes, huve alio been begun at differ
ent places in the (late of Connecticut, but all up
>n a smaller scale, than above mentioned.
Some eiTays are also making in the printing and
Gaining of cotton goods. There are several small
rftabliihiuents of this kind already on foot.
WOOL.
In a country, the climate of whieh partakes of
o confiderable-a proportion of winter as that ot a
;r?aL partof the United States, the woollen branch
:annot he regarded, as inferior to any, which re
ates to the cloathing of the inhabitants.
HoufehoM manufactures of this material are
:arried o : n, in different parts of the United States,,
o a very interesting extent j but there is only onff
)ia>ncH, which, as a regular buiinefs, can be said
o have acquired maturity. This is the making
if hats.
Hats of wool, and of wool mixed with fur, are
nade in large quantities, in different states ; and
-joining seems waiiting but an adequate supply of
naterials, to render the manufacture commenfu
-ate with the demand.
A promising essay, towards the fabrication of
:loths, caflimcrs and other woollen goods, is like
wise going on at Hartford, in Connecticut. Spe
cimens of tbe different kinds which are made, in
ilie poffefiion of the Secretary, evince that these
fabrics have attained a very considerable degree of
perfection. Their quality certainly surpasses any
thing, that could have been looked for, in so fliort
a time, and under so great disadvantages j and
:onfpires with the scantiness of the means, which
have been at the command of the directors, to
form the eulogium of that public spirit, perseve
rance and judgment, which have been able to ac
compli (h so much.
To cherish and bring to maturity this precious
embryo mull engage the most ardent wishes, and
proportionable regret, as far as the means of doing
it may appear difficult or uncertain.
(See hfl pcige.JPHILADELPHIA*
C O N G R ESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIONS,,
Wednesday, Jan. 4th.
Mr. Laurance from the committee tc
whom was referred the memorial o,
Brigadier General Harmar, in hehall
of the commissioned officers of the arm) 1
made a report, that legal provifior)
ought to be made for railing the pay
of the said officers—read, and ordered
to lie on the table.
A report was read from the commit
tee on the petition of John Stagg, ju
nior, chief clerk in the department of
war, for increase of salary—that the
petitioner ought to be allowed the sala
ry of 800 dollars, the fame as to the
principal clerks in the Treasury depart
ment.
Several petitions were read froir
fgldiers and others for compensations
&c. which were referred to the Secre
tary at War.
A mirnorial from the legislature o:
Rhode liland was read, flaring the inju
ries they are fubjefted to from the ope
ration of the ast of Congress relative tc
the alfumption of the (late debts, anc
praying a farther alfumption of the debt
of that to the Secretary
of the Treasury.
A letter was laid before the House by
the Speaker from the Secretary at War
with his report on the memorial oi
Benjamin Lincoln, for himfelf and the
other commissioners for treating of
peace with the southern Indians in
1789. Referred to a fcleft committee
to examine and,report thereon.
The committee, to whom had been
referred the petition of George Webb,
with the Secretary of the treasury's
report thereon, relative to the receipt
of continental taxes for the State of
Virginia, presented a bill granting far
ther compensation tp certain receivers
of continental ta:;es for their services
subsequent to the 31ft. of December,
*782.
Mr. Benfon made a motion for the
appointment of a committee to bring in
a bill for the apportionment ofßeprefen
tatives among the inhabitants of the
United States according to the firft enu
meration ; and also providing for a si
milar apportionment according to the
second enumeration, which shall be
made previous to the 3d day of March,
'797*
Thursday, Jan. 5.
Petitions from James Taylor arid
Thomas Carruth were read, praying
comr>enfatioris for services rendered,
wounds received, &c. in the army, du
ring the wari—Referred to the Secreta
ry at War.—Also,
A petition from Daniel Freer, pray
ing renewal of loan-office certificates
deliroyed by fire—Referred to the Se
cretary of the Treasury.
The bill for granting further com
pensation to certain receivers of conti
nental taxes, was read a second time,
aucl ordered to be committed to a com
mittee of the whole houle on Wednes
day next.
The howfe then proceeded to the fur
ther consideration of the pod-office bill
—An amendment heretofore made by
Mr. Fitzfimons, was taken, into consi
deration, "to empower the drivers of
the mail stage to carry paflengers along
the poll roads"—to which it was moved
to add the following proviso—" that
wherever any exclusive privilege ofcon
veying paflengers for hire in stage car
riages, on any of the roads established
by this law, hath been heretofore grant
ed by any of the Hates for a term of
years, such exclusive privilege shall
continue and be of full force and effect,
agreeable tp the conditions thereof, un
til such term shall expire."
The queflion being put to agree to
the said proviso, it palled in the nega
tive—Yeas 14. —Nays 43.
The question being also put to agree
to the firft amendment, it palled in the
negative —Yeas 25. —Nays 33.
The bill, with the amendments, was
then ordered to be engrossed, and read
the third time on Monday next.
Mi. Ames, from the committee, re
ported on the memorial of Benjamin
Lincoln, Cyrus Griffin, and David
Humphreys—which report was ordered
to lie on the table.
Frisavj Jan.
Petitions were read—frora Jameu
Broadwood aud John Hailey, praying
:oinpcnl<ition for wounds
—from Elizabeth Grubb, praying relict
in confequetice of her husband havins
been disabled in the late navy of the
United States—from Lewis Van
praying compensation for supplies fur
nifiied, &c.-—All which were refei rcti.
The memorial of Mr. Chuichman
[prelented to the house the 30th ult.!
was ordered to' be referred to a felecl
:ocsmittee, to report thereon.
The house then took into confiuera
:ion the appointment of a committee
:o bring in a bill, to apportion ropre
entatives among the several states,. ac
zording to the firft enumeration, and
providing for a iecond enumeration,
ind apportioning the representation ac
zordingly, after the 3d of March, 1707
—Referred to a committee of the whole
house on Thursday next.
A petition was read, from GifJbrd
Dally, door-keeper to the house of re
presentatives. praying compenfatiosTor
services rendered during the rece: S of
the house of reprefentatives—Referred
to a private committee.
'I he house resumed the consideration
of the bill relative to the elettion of a
Prefidcnt. and Vice-President of the
United States, &c. which was recom
mitted to a committee of the whole
house on Tuesday next.
Mr. Laurance, from the comtfiirt«e
appointed, a bill to al'cer
tain, and regulate the claims to half
pay, and of invalid pensions—read a
firft and fecohd time, and made the gir
der of the day for Wednesday next.
Two members, Mr. Ames, an d Mr.
Sturges, were ordered to be added
the committee to whom was referred
the report ps the
the judiciary system of the United
States.
The report of the committee on the
memorial of Benjamin Lincoln, &c.
was then taken up.—lt was moved that
a resolution should be adopted pur
luant to the report, which was favora
ble to the memorialists. Debate beinc
had upon this motion, a bill was after
wards moved to be brought in for the
appropriation of sixteen hundred
lars, to defray the iidtliticinal t- Xj"'"' •
incurred by the commissioners. Bnljrt
the house came to any decifton, an adj
lournmcnt was called for.
From the American Daily Advertifer\
IS the war with the Indians ajujlone r
Have we purchased the territory
mm them on which we have lately
zrefted several new forts ?
Have they not the fame right Co
heir hunting grounds (which afford
:hem their only means of fubfiftance]
hat we have to our houses and farms?
Do we not commit the fame offence
igainft reason and justice in attempting
;o take these hunting grounds from
;hem without their confcnt, that Great
Britain committed against the Ameri
zan colonies in attempting to tax them
without their consent ?
Would not ten thousand dollars laid
jut in presents, or in purchasing their
ands a year ago, have done more to
lave obtained an honorable peace with
hem, than five millions of dollars will
io now, if laid out in conducting a wa:
against them ?
Would not the establishing of a furt
trade with them, be more profitable tc
the United States, than the poffeflion of
ill the terrritory we could purchifc
from them or take from them by force?
Would it not be more becoming the
Christian rulers of a great republic, tc
introduce the arts of life among
the Indians, rather than attempt to ex
tirpate them?
Is it confident with honoror jufticete
:arry pn a war only for the fake of re
vsnge ? Is there any honor to be acquired
by killing Indians ?
Do not several powerful European
nations, purchase peace with Algiers
by annual presents, or subsidies, and
without incurring thereby a lois of
honor ?
Has not Nuraa Pompilius render
ed himfelf immortal, by keeping- a
military nation at peace with savage
and barbarous neighbours above forty
years, by his prudence and love of jus
tice ?
Is the conqucft or acquisition of S nevy
State worth to the LVutcd Siat&s, in tlieii
pveient circuiiiftauces, a tingle ircQrnan':
iife ?
Are there no!jdifeafe£ and accident;
Enough to carry men out of the world
without adding to the<n, the drcsdfui
curie of war ?
Are not wars dangerous to liberty, b)
fomenting a love oi id lends, aud. plun
der, by creating debt, and multiplying
revenue officers, who always stand rea
dy to assist in fupj.orting governmenl
whether right or wrong ? oi J rather oni\
when it is zvrong, for ali right govern
ments support themselves.
Will not a war rendered ejtpenfive
or duration, fu'ojedt us
io the ncceility of encroaching upor
ippropriatsd funds, and thereby ihakt
the credit of the United States P
Have not France and England, aftei
many unfuccefsful wars with the Indi
ins, discovered at (ast, that a permanenl
and profitable peace with them is to b«
Dbtained only by the ties of trade anc'
presents ?
Is national honor concerned in car
rying on a wa;--after a defeat by a here
of Indians, any more than it would b«
if the fame misfortune had happenec
from an herd of buffaloes ?
ALBji N Y, December 28.
THE accounts of the loss of so man)
brave men, who have fallen a facrifici
to ill policy, or want of energy in ou
general government, has filled the breaf
of every man who feels for the honou:
of his country, with forrovv and indig
nation. Whether the Indian:
have had justice done them ; or ever
whether proper means were taken in th<
outset of this business to conciliate theii
affections, and to prevent their drawing
unfavorable comparisons between th<
liberality of the United States, and thai
of the British government, is not now <
fuhject of investigation.—The hiitor)
of the treaties made or rather attcmptec
to be made under the confederatior
would not redound much to our credit
either as judges of the steps necessary t<
insure peace with the or of th<
characters proper to be intruded wit!
the negoeiation—neither was the forc(
raised ia for (he defence of thefet
■einents on the Ohio, ps fufficient mag
nitudc tpprote£t,even partially, our wid<
(extended frontiers, nor to impress 01
the minds of the enemy the smallest de
gree of refpeft for our flrength, or exer
tions—-Six hundred men strung along i
line of yoo miles extent, was an objef
rather of ridicule, than of serious ap
prehension, even tp the followers of ar
Indian army. But these were the mil"
takes : thrfewere the blundeis of a gov
eminent which feared to encounter th<
cry of a ' Jla?iding army,' and whoft
funds were not equal to the support o
the miserable band which the ftatcs hac
raif'cd on their cautious requisition.
When the old government funk int(
oblivion and a new and more energetii
one was formed, we fondly hoped tha
an adequate prpvifion would have beer
made for the support of our nationa
character and a more dignified line o
conduct marked out ; happily our hope
have not been entirely without founda
tion ; but there is pne humiliating in
stance remains, of our want of fenle tc
know, or want of bravery toenforee ar
observance ps pur rights—
Why are we not in polfellion of th<
territory as ceded to us by the treaty o
peace ?■ Why are our late enemies fuf
fcred to occupy the numerous polls or
our frontiers, and to exercile a jurifdic
tion within our limits dettruCtive of oui
trade, inimical to the lives and libertie;
ps ourpeople, and degrading in the lafl
degree to the government which we
have instituted ! —r-Is there a Britith of
ficer, let his rank be ever so low, or His
knowledge or abilities ever so contemp
tible, whp dpes not feel his fuperiorit)
on this occalion ; who does not know
that he can ill-treat, nay, imprison o ul
citizens without fear of punishment r
Do we dare to exercise the l ights of sov
ereignty throughout our dominion ? Le
the secretary of the treasury declare if h<
did not blufii for the situation of Hi!
country, for the mijlakt of Congress ir
ordering the collector of Vermont to s
poll within that ft ate, over which they
had no controul !
It is time, to shake off this foreign
yoke—there are no political reasons tc
hinder our demands, therp if. no powci
abi£ to prevent our taking those arfe-*
nals, those aiyUims of a fa'vage enemy.
Uutil the Britifli evacuate the for-.
trefTes which they now hold, within the
United States, and we have established
a line of posts in the rear of our settle
ments, we never shall have peace.—
While the Britiln. traders are fuffered
to prowl between the lakes and the
Ohio, difieminating falfhoods to our
disadvantage, and to fufnifh the sava
ges with arms and ammunition, aiding
them in attack, and comforting them
in defeat, we have nothing to cxpedfc
but murcjers and depredation.—While,
:his retreat is open, not to fay proteftcd,
:hey will set the United States at defi
ance and attack their troops with impu
nity, but the moment their retreat is cut
sff by a chain of posts, that moment they
will sue for peace.
Whether thele pofls ?re 30 or ,300.
niles N, W, of the Ohio, provided the
British wereaut of our interior territo
ry, is of little consequence; thp' it is the
opinion of Steuben (than whom,
10 man is better acquainted with, or
las a greater regard for the true interests
)f the United States) in his plan for a
lational militia, that th? chain should
3? drawn near to settlements already be
jun, and removed further back as the
radt which it was intended to cover is
llled with inhabitants : Let our ru
ers determine the propriety of this idea;
Dut let them firftdetermine to break that
iifgraceful chain with which our norih
:rn frontiers are bound, The spirit
which began the late revolution is not
pet loft—nor is it fa long since York
:own was taken that we have forgotten
:o conduct a liege.
LONDON, Nov. 14-1.5.
Translation of the extraß of the Utter dated
Pondicherry, 14th June, 1791, from a
merchant there to his brother at Paris.
" The war between the Er.glifh and
Tippoo is a little abated at prelent, on
account of the weather on the Malabar
coast, where every thing is at present
under water. I have before mentioned
to you the capture of Bangalore, it is
the only advantage which the English
have gained this year. Their army is
going to ruin by degrees, and, every one
here thinks it will be soon destroyed.
The fact is, that, by their own acknow
ledgment, Tippoo disputed their ap
proach to Sarmgapatam by a battle in
which he & his troops fought like furies.
The loss of the Englilh was confidcrable,
because they attempted to force Tip
poo's intrenchments and were the at-t
tackers. -The extraordinary rains
which fell afterwards joined to the
want of draft oxen, forced them to de
stroy and abandon all their heavy artil
lery.—Their situation is most critical
in want of all ncceflaries, and having
the elements in this rainy season to
combat with.
" These bad accounts are a little fof
tened as to their confluences by the
arrival of the Mahrattas, who, as they
fay, are resolved to force the belligerent
powers to make peace.
" The English Company, ruined in
their finances, is under an incapacity
of making any rett}rns to Europe this
year ; at leafl from the coalt of Coro-.
mandel, Malabar, or Bengal."
Extract of a letter from Copenhagen,
Oct. 8.
" All our (hips of the line have
com? into port to be disarmed. It will
probably be long ere we witness ano
ther armament of the kind. Every
thing at present announces a durable
peace to Europe. Even the troubles of
France, which seemed calculated to fur
nifh matter for a new conflagration,
will doubtless subside as the king of the
French, by accepting the confhtution,
has taken ?way f rom foreign powers the
principal pretext for a war, at the fame
time that he has set to his fubjefts an ex
ample of perfect tranquility, 1
" The direttors of the Dano-Norwe-'
gian bank have announced to the pub
lic, that they are willing to lend money
at the rate per cent. 11 1 ail
forts of merchandize, prov ho
goods be insured at the pr vai ..k
of the infurancc office."
M. GARDETTE, Denti/i,
RESPECTIULLY inform the public, t"i
he tw» removed from No. S3 to No. 1J",
Chrfnui-, nriir Fourth Hreet, Ofpofite the
Bankoi'the Ur.ltsd States Pec. 19.FITTSBURGH, Dec. 24.
ThutTdav morning arived here from
Head-Q iarters, Fort Washington, Capt,
Guthrie and Lieut. Cummings, of the
second regiment of levies. These gen
tlemen inform, that the hope entertain
ed of Gen. Scott's going out with a par
ty of Kentucky volunteers, to the place
of the unfortunate action, was now
over, as some difficulties had occurred
which prevented it : that Col. George
Gibfoti, Major Butler, &c. who were
supposed to he dangeroully wounded,
tvere recovering, and that the report
refpe&ing Capt. Dark's death, is falfe.
When thci'e gentlemen left Head
Quarters, Gen. St. Clair was ill of the
gout.
From various opinions (observes a
correfpqr.dcnt) of gentlemen who were
in the late a&ion with the Indians, it is
reduce 4 to a certainty, that, besides fc
ven pieces of artillery, and all the
stores, &c. upwards of 700 men were
left dead in the field, and it is supposed
that the loft of the Indians did not ave
rage mora than one for fix. It now
appears to be high time for those at the
heim of our-affairs to altar their fyftcm
for fighting Indians, which they havefo
long and lo unfuccefsfully pursued!
PHILADELPHIA,
January 9, 1792.
The Frefidrnt of the United States has ap
proved of, and recognized the foreign appoint
merits in our lafl— M. PALASKE, consul-ge
neral froin his majesty the king of Prussia ; and
M. MARBOIS, vtce-cotrfal from his moll
chrifiian ina|cfty, within the dates of Cpnnt&i
cut, New-York and Ncw-Jerfey.
On Tuesday evening last, the election for the
diieQors of the bank ps the United States, was
dosed, and the were declar
ed duly cletled for the ensuing year—Viz, Wil
liam Smith, South-Carolina —Samuel Johjidon,
Norih-Carolina—Fifher Ames, Tristram Dalton,
George Cabot. Maflachufetts—Jofeph Ball, Tho
mas Willing, Jofe;«h Anthony, Herman Le Roy,
Robert Smith, Archibald M'Call, William
Bingham, Isaac Wharton, James C. Fiflier, Mat
thew M.Connell, Charles Pettit, Pennsylvania—
John Laurance, Rufus King, James Watson,
Andrew- Craigie, Nicholas Lowe, R. C. Living
iion, New-York—Jeremiah Wadfworth, Con
neQicut—P. R. Fendall, Virginia—H enr y Ni
cnolls, Maryland.
The uniting ©f the rivers Delaware and
Schuylkill by means of a navigable canal for
lhallops, appears to be seriously contemplated by
the legislature of the slate of Pennsylvania. The
neceflity for such a canal is universally allowed,
but the place mod proper for cutting it is flill un
determined. The height of the grounds, near
the northern limits of this city, being found to
fee something better than thirty-fevea feet -abave
the high water mark on Ac Delaware, the great
depth of eJTtirto»&e dug through in that line
renders the design impracticable—Building 3 dam
across the Schuylkill, in order to raise the water
three or four fathoms, and thereby tp diminiih
the quantity of earth to be dug thipugh, is also at
tended with the furious loss and inconveniency of
overflowing vafl quantities of valuable meadow,
as well as upland; not to mention its wholly ob
flrufting the mills to a certain diflance up that
river. To remedy these inconveniencies, it has
been proposed to begin the canal at or near No'r
xis-Town, in the county ps Montgomery, where
the Schuylkill waters are about 40 feet above the
high water of Delawarsuit Philadelphia. Upon
this plan (it is said) a fuflicient never failing
flream would be procured for the several pur
poses of uniting the Schuylkill and Delaware ;
iupplying the city of Philadelphia wiih water, as
v-i II as with the produce of the country by means:
of the canal j and affording the means for dry
docks to careen the (flipping without the trou
ble and expcnce of heaving down.
On Tburfday last, the governor ps the slate
cf New-York opened the (effion ps that legisla
ture with an address to both homes. In the ad
dress the ptmlic arc informed, that, in confc
quc-nce of the powers veiled in the governor,
the people from New-England, and elsewhere,
h id been removed, who had intruded, some time
fincc, upon the lands belonging to the Oneida
and Cayuga nations of Indians, anjl thereby giv
en cause of complaint to those tribes. The
financial concerns of the fl2te are represented to
be in a flouiifliing condition ; and, particularly,
that from the sale and disposal of the wafie and
unappropriated lands, the treasury would receive
an augmentation fufficient to produce an annu
al icvenue, exceeding the ordinary expences of
the government. —The report of the commilTioti
eis of the land-office was, further, submitted to
the legislature, by which it appeared that the
jun£lioii of the Mohawk River and Wood
Creek, by means of a canal, was praQicable at 3
moderate expence ; as also a jun£lion between
Wood Creek and Hudson's River, by similar
means ; all which could be effefled from the
ordinary resources of the slate without the aid
of taxes.
The legislature of Virginia paCfcd a law some
time lalt month for invefling certain persons with
powers to set on foot a lottery, for railing th_-
Juin ol four thoufacd po.unds, at ten per cent, dc
cluflion. The otjccls o£ this kitterjr are to pro
mote aivl diffiminate a minute knowledge ol thej
southern parts of ihe United States of America,;
from Philadelphia to the Gujph of Mexico, anJ;
from ihe Atlantic to the TVlifliiippi,— The pUtcs,!
&c. necelfary to the elucidation ps this ufefulj
work are in the hands ps Col. Tatham, and the
work is carried on in the capitol under the patro
nage of the date government, where it is fre
quently infpr£led by its officers, to prevent any
'errors or misinformations to the public.
J The Pennsylvania Hospital having been found
inadequate to the two fold purpose of accommo
dating _yfcA and mad persons, it has been proposed
|to erect a House, near the present holpital, for
I the exclulive use of such as are depiived of their
j reason. It is conceived, that in such a houie
'properly conllrucled, and attended, that greatest
I of human maladies, lunacy, might be cured, and
mad people, iullead of lingering away a melan
choly evidence under ground, and visited only
jas fpetlacLs of human nature hi ruiiw, be
restored to lealon, to fociety t andto theirtuends.
1 The following affe&ingcircumdance is related
I by a perfou who was with Gen. St. Clair's army
| in ti c action of the 4th of November lalt. —There
iwcre'witW the American troops a number of
white women who had attended thetn on the ex
pedition. When the retreat was ordered, one of
ibelV women having a child in her arms, and be
ing hard purlyed by an Indian with a tomahawk,
I who Ihe found mud inevitably overtake her in a
few minutes if (he did not leave the child, the
defne oi felf-ptelervation overcame the parental
Jeelings of nature, and, Hopping C(Ort for a mo
ment, ihe placed the infant (being about a year
old) on a dump, and immediately renewed her
flight—The Indian rulhed on, and in the attempt
to kiji an officer, who made a (land to save the
woman, was shot dead on the spot.—The worr.aa
escaped with the troops, but there is every reafou
to (uppofe that the child was tomahawked, or its
brains daflied out, as it is not likely that the lava
ges, upon such an occasion, found themselves in
a humour to carry off an infant of a twelve month
old, to their towns.
Extrctfl of a letter from an officer at Fort Wafhing
tpn, dated. Nov. 17.
measures, indeed, mull be immediately
taken, p effect any good purpose ; and the Uni
ted State? will deceive themselves, if they think
an inlignificant, undisciplined badly provi
ded, will conquer the formidable enemy they are
now at war with. They are numerous —they are
trained warriors, and are elated with victory and
plunder I They gained it, however, with conh
derable loss on their part; but we. car.not alcer
tain it exactly.
" I Terved the campaign in the cavalry, and
am now returned to my battalion ; which, I hope
will be discharged in the cotirfe of ten days 01 a
fortnight; and mr v.rmrtd, 'I ft ope, \uTl permit
my travelling by that time.
'' Our army was hadly modelled, for fighting
Ir.dian^: it was raw, and wanted horse andjjile
men; it was badly provided, and of
discontented. Indians are expert, in a high diSj
gree, with the rifle, and in>he art ot covering!
themselves behind trees, .logs, See. We had a
few riflemen (militia) but they did not behave
ire-welLa's they ought: —Our hoifes were so emi- j
ciated, by the want of forage, that they were en-j
tirely unfit for any activefcivice ; and several of
our men (I mean levies) never fired a gun, before
ihe day of action.
" The length to which affairs have gone, cer
tainly requires the mod fpeedv exertion of the
public; a (Irong army, compared to the lad,
mult be raised, and disciplined to fight the le~
dians in their own manner ; such an army, well
commanded and modelled, 1 (hould like to serve
in, and would flill hope to fee those savages
lubdued..
The following was communicated by mcflagtr.;
on Friday last, by the governor of this (fate to the
icgillalure ;
To the Senate and House of Representatives of
the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Gentlemen,
I HAyEdirefted the cpmmunications, which
I received from Putlburgh by the port this morn
ing, to be laid before you and ypu will permit
me, on the present occasion, to repeat, that the
very alarming situation ps our fellow-citizens on
the frontiers, requires, upon every principle of
policy Ztid humanity, the immediate exertions of
government. A plan ofdefenfive operation hai
been recently proposed to me by the Prefrdent
of the United States, which, as it claims, infome
refpefts, ihe fan£tion of the legislature, I submit
to your consideration ; and (hould i*. be appro
ved, you will be pleased, b.efides making an ade
quate appropriation of money for arms and am
munition, to decide upon the propriety of enlarg
ing, for a limited time, the powers ps the execu
tive, so as to authoriTe the employment of drafts
from the militia for a longer period than two
months: and, generally, to enable us to co-ope
rate in the meafuies of the federal government,
for the proje&ipn of the frontiers of the Com
monwealth.
THOMAS MIFFLIN.
Philadelphia, 6th Jan. 1792.
Pittsburgh, Dec. 28, 1791.
S I R,
WE are this moment honored with yours of
the 22d inflant, and return you ourmoft grateful
acknowledgments for the plealing afiurances con
tained therein. The inhabitants of this town and
neighborhood, are a<stually inspired with the ut
molt confidence that every exertion in ypur.Ex'-
cellency's power, will be used towards their pro
tection ; and ferioully take the liberty of enclo
sing you information received from- ihc com
manding officer ana others. at Fort Franklin, la!
1 ofebt, by exprels. This intelligence ha* addec
treacly toooru r alarm. We reallv apprehend) that
t\ne depopulation of this country will be t'n« iin
' mediate consequence of the fall of that garrr!c.n
! We have the' honor ro be, with flue fefpett
» Your Excellency - ':; mgiVpbedient,
Humble Servants,
J' ,mes °' H r 1 OmmitUe of th,
treorge Wallace, l M^i(ants 0 f
I > h _n G.b pn i p . H jb u hm
A. rannehiil, J
j His Excellency Gooernor Mijfun.
Copy of a letter from Lieut. JetFers, dated Sort
• Franklin, the <zf)th December, 1791. By-exfry.
*' to th: comitian'hrig Vjjietr at Pittfbtirgh,' or Maj
I. Irwin, of tie militia.
S IR,
I HAVE this moment received authentic ac
cc.yjvs fiom the, Corr.plaver, t'i 3t an atta(: k 01
thic.garrilon will ajcpofl imjnedt.ueK' take place
for the Indians from belpw declare tha! they ar
delermincd to reduce this place, (hake the Corn
planter bv the head, and lws£]j the river lion
end to end.
You are mofl earneflly rrqnefted. and if I bav
any authority positively ordered, to fend we with
out lofsof time, one subaltern and thirty men as
reinforcement, together with my men who hav
been left sick at Fort Put. Under this convoy, lem
me provisions to make five months rations so
seventy men. This news is not fiifitious; nor thi
letter to be trifled with. I have written to th
miniver of war; but his orders will come to:
late. 1 am, &c.
J. JEFF E R S.
Another letter from Lieut. Jeffers of the fame date
to Mr. £. Williams, contrachi.
" I am happy to inform you that the cattle am
fait arrived fafe : the danger in this country is f
great, that I sent soldiers and Indians t® efcoi
'them. lam allonifhed Jvlr. Bond arrived fafe
I have every reason to expefcF that nine tiraes ou
ol ien so small a party will be cut otf.—'No tim
to be loft in fending five months provihon, a
! one escort will answer fpr the whole."
From Col. George M CvUy, dated, Fert-FrcniUn
2.6 th D-c. 1791.
" By express this moment received from th
Cornplanter, he advises, that the women at thi
garrison be immediately sent to Pittsburgh to
fafety."
The express who was the bearer of these ex
tracts, fays, that a ceuncil of hoflile Indians wa
then fitting atßuffaloe Creek, and that the Corn
planter was summoned to it. How far this in
formation may be depended on, can only be judg
ed from our late difalter.
N. B. These extracts arrived here the 28th
; at g, o'clock, P. M. by exprefa.
ExtraElof 'aletterfrom Wilmington, (N.C.)Dec. 1!
" As your papers do not seem to comeregu
larbythe conveyance I at firft. counted upon
be so kind, after the navigation opens, to fen;
ihe National Gazette by water to this place, a
opportunities will offer, at lead once a lortnight
i Our {'ate papers are miserably barren, owinj
not onlv to a scarcity of valuable materials, bu
j for want of room, rf the printers even had them
" The hungryfheeplookup,and arenotfed,
Butfll'd with wind, and the rank m/Jl they draw.'
" 1 am sick of paying for trifling localities.—
A man drowned in Penobfcott Bay—anothc
that got a contusion upon his scull in Pennfylva
nia—a fiftnng boat {Iranded on CohalFet Rock
—a turnip raised on Cumberland llland, or,
barn burnt a: Conegoclieague.—l cannot digel
such food. I want something more solid. A
you promise to furnifh us with valuable informa
tion, you may continue mv fubfeription, notwith
{landing the loss of several of your numbers."
Lifl of Arrivals at tlu Port of Philadelphia, so
the Year 1791.
£ £
bio
« ' => b c
3d I f i
L . ■ § 3 53
£ 4
10
j From Jan. 1, to
June Ift, 31 -So i 7 3°9
In all June 3 22 6 9 36
July 8 22 9 16 4 1
Aoguft 18 32 8 19 59
September 25 32 6 9 66
Gftober 1 17 26 7 8 84
November 9 26 10 8 63
Pecember 5 jo 5 4 36
TOTALS 122 250 7S 117 694
Making in the whole 1261.
Arrivals since the jft Jane last, 85 ships, 16
!>rigs, 61 schooners, 73 (loops, in all from to
ieiga ports, and 385 coasters j total 'or the last 6
months 759. During which time, the number 0
v ripe Is cleared out, amount to above Sco.
PRICE of STOCK.
Funded Debt,
Sis per cents, per£. - - 33/81-2
Three per cents, - lifio to iqf.
Deferred fix per cents, - 14/6.
Unfunded Debt.
Final settlements, - - 20/6.
Inteieft due previous to j7SS,
Indents, - - - 13/.
Bank. Stock j-2 Shares IC2, at 60 clays 110.
Do. at 4 months ----- 115.
j Full fliares bank flock payable in May, 62 1-2 to 65
7~j« following -is copied- from I
Centinel
With a finguhr (pecies of ital an
llirqpy, (hk. caule of the hollile Indian
•.vh.Pi.l the r.jriiiy under Gen. St. Clair, wj
ed, is advoc ' *d—their futfeiings dehneiK
r.rd thrir enheflcs d~pifted. Bui to inipt...
svny of these, it uic\ exist- to a want of hunvi'-»
it/ ill Government, is unjutt- —The defiie tocfla
b!i(ii permanent and honorable p.ace between
rhd Ignited Slates atiA all the trie s'of Indians,,
has beep ?taloufiy exhibited both ay tjie iomier
and prelent governments. In fon.e inflappe*,
they have been attended with fuccels-—as the
treatiss between us and the Creeks, ChoQaws,
Cherokccs.and others. But all endeavors to et
frft peace with the I-ndianv in the ,ie ions north
well of the river Okw, have proved abortive.
il'The general government took early mea
sures for this purpose.— prea'ias had been form
ed, vender the old government, with the fix na
tidnsj the Wyandols and DcUrjwes, and I'ome
more of the. we Hern Indians ; but the Wabajk
Injuns always declined to attend at.the negoci
ations of thole treaties, liytvnthflanding they
were invited thereto.
" In order, if pollib'e, to bring those deluded
pepple to a juil (enfe of their £j,iati«n, the Prc
fideht of the United States diiveted that ihtv
fiiou'd be invited anew, to treat ot peace, and
that the cohiequences of their refulal, and pei
ftfling in halhlities, fliould be fully placed before
them —and at the fame time the people of Ken
tucky were prohibited fiotn making any further
incursions into the Indian.coiiptry.
" This invitation was executed early lad year,
to all the trtb"es inhabiting the rivet Wabajk from
Post Vinccnnes up to.the Miami village. Ihe in
vitation was not only refufed by the Indians,,
but their hollihties were renewed with greater
violence than ever.
11 The campaign, therefore,' of the lafl
this vear, wete measures of necefiity —The In
dians had been invading our frontieis, and had
killed many hundred. ii;npcent men, women,
and-children.
" It became Jutland highly proper, that the
power of the United States Ihould be put in mo
tion against these blood-thii fly tubes—and that,
it fliquld be ineffectual is to, be deplored —and.
attributed to the ftnallnefs of our uun.bers.
" Kotwithilanding the provocations or theCe
Indians it is said, measures will be taken to
open their eyes to their true intereQ : But it
the measures taken for this purpose should be
in vain the meekness of Chrilii<inity will jutii
fy the Government, in taking etfe£lual meature?
to prevent the murder of its peaceable citizens ;
and the arrangements to be made, it is hoped
will"bs entirely adequate to the full convifhon
of the hostile Indians, that they have abundantly
more to hope from the mercy, than to expert
from the weakness of the United States.''
The persons named in the Let
ters Patent issued by the governor of
the commonwealth under the great seal of
the Jlatt, incorporating the subscribers " for
opening a canal and lock navigation between
the rivers. Schuylkill and Sufquehauna," are
requefled to meet in the Senate Chamber,
this day at to o'clock in the forenoon, " to
organize the said corporation t and choose"
one President twelve managers, one Treq
furer, and such other officers as they Jhall
think necejfary," &c. according to law.
The eleElion, will be opened at the hour ap
bointed, and it is requefied that the gentle
men concerned will be pxinctual in their at
tendance.
Monday, Jan. 9.
"if. 1 ■ - f
A fated meeting of the society for
bromoting the improvement of roads and in
land navigation, will be held this evening, at
the State House, at 7 o'clock.
Timothy Matlack, Secretary.
Monday January 9, 1792.
Meteorological Observations.
January, 1792.
D. H. Bar. Ther.Wmd. Wer.
Monday, 2. 7 29. 8 35 n. e. Rain.
2 29.25 3§_ do. Cloudy,
Tuefddy, 3. 7 29. 7 40 calm. Misty.
2 29. 7 46 do. ditto.
IVeduefday, 4. 730. 1 37 n.w. Fair.
2 30. 1 44 do. ditto.
Thurjday, 5, 7 30.15 31 s.w.\Cloud~,
2 29. 938 do. jS/zojy,
Friday, 6. 729. 731 k.w. Fair.
2 29. 831 do. ditto.
Saturday, 7. 730. 5 19 calm. Cloudy.
2 30. 22 n.e. Snow.
Sunday, 8. 7 29. 9?2n. e. Cloudy.
?i 2 9* 27 do. ditto.
This Day are published,
SERMON S,
Historical and Charafteriftical :
By WILLIAM LINN, D. D.
One of the Minijlers of the Reformed ProteJianS
Dutch Church, in the city of New-York.
Sold by T. DOBSON, R. CAMPBELL, &
M. CAREY.
[Price Three Quarters if a Dcllar.~\, v. iiich should tend to promote an
pply of wool, of good quality, weald
vrd the moll efficacious aid, that pre
nrt'ances permit.
ncourage the raifmg and improving the
at home, would certainly be the
.'rrjiWc expedient, for that purpose j but il
be alone fufiicient, cfpecially as it is yei
> | - , whether our woo! be capable of such z
t ei'M-e c: improvement, as to render it fit for the
finer fabrics.
Premiums would probably be found the bef
means of promoting thedomeftic, and bounties tlx
foreign supply. The firft mav be within the com
paf> of the institution hereafter to be submitted
The last would require a fpecific Jegiflative provi
fir>n. If any bounties are granted they ought o
course to be adjusted with an eye to quality as wel
as qnantity,
A fund for this purpose may be derived fron
the addition of i\ per cent, to the present rate o
duty, on carpets and carpeting ; an increase, ti
svhich the nature of the articles suggests no ob
je&ion, and which may at the fame time furniih
motive the more to the fabrication of them a
home; towards which some beginnings have beei
made,
SILK.
The production of this article is attended wit!
great facility iamoft parts of the United States
Some pleasing *ffaye are making in ConneCticut
as well towards that, as towards the manufaCtur
cf what is produced. Stockings, handkerchiefs
ribbons end buttons, are made, though as yet bu
in small quantities.
A manufactory of lace, upon a scale not ver
extensive, has been long memorable at Ipswich ii
the state of Maflachufetts.
An exemption of the material from the duty
which it now pays on importation, and premium
upon the production, to be dispensed under the di
reCtion of the institution before alluded to, seen
to be the only species of encouragement advileabi
at so early a stage of the thing.
GLASS.
The materials for making glass are found ever
where. In the United States there is no deficien
cy of them. The sands and stones called Tarfo
which include flinty and chryftalline substance
generally, and the salts of various plants, particu
larly of the sea-weed kali or kelp constitute the ef
fential ingredients. An extraordinary abundanc
of fuel is a particular advantage enjoyed by thi
country for such manufactures. They, however
require large capitals and involve much manua
labour.
Different manufactories of glass are now on foo
in the United States. The present duty of \z
per cent, on all imported articles of glass amount
to a considerable encouragement to those manufac
tories. It any thing in addition is judged eligible
the mod proper would appear to be a direct boun
ty, on window glass and black bottles.
The firft recommends itfelf as an objeCt of ge
neral convenience ; the last adds to that character
the circumft3Jice of being an important item ii
breweries. A complaint is made of great defici
ency in this refpeCt.
GUN POWDER.
No small progress has been of late made in th
manufacture of this very important article : I
may indeed be considered as already eftabliihed
but its high importance renders its further exten
iion very desirable.
The encouragements, which it already enjoys
are a duty of ten per cent, on the foreign rival ar
ticle, and an exemption of falt-petre one of th
principal ingredients of which it is composed
from duty. A like exemption of sulphur, ano
ther chief ingredient, would appear to be equall
proper. No quantity of this article has yet beei
produced, from internal fcurces. The use madi
of it in finiihing the bottoms of {hips, is an addi
lional inducement to placing it in the clafsof fre
jjoods. Regulations for the careful inspeCtion o
the article would have a favourable tendency.
PAPER.
Manufactories of paper are among those whic'
are arrived at the greatest maturity in the Unite
States, and are most adequate to national supply
That of paper hangings is a branch, in which rei
pcCtable progress has been made.
Nothing material seems wanting to the furthe
success of this valuable branch, which is alrea
dy protected by a competent duty on similar im
ported articles*
In the enumeration of the several kinds, mad
subjeCt to that duty, sheathing and cartridge pa
per have been omitted. These, being the mol
ftmple manufactures of the fort, and neceflary t
military supply, as well as ship building, recom
mend themselves equally with those of other de{
criptions, to encouragement, and appear.to be a
fully within the compass of dome(V»c exertions.
PRINTED BOOKS.
The great number of prefles difleminate
throughout the Union, seem to afford an afiur
ance, that there is no need of being indebted tc
foreign countries for the printing of the book
which are used in the United States. A duty q
ten percent, instead of five, which is now charg
ed upon the article, would have a tendency to ai<
the business. internally.
It occurs, as an objeCtion to this, that it ma;
have an unfavorable aspeCt towards literature, b;
raising the prices of books in uoiverfal use, in pri
vate families, schools and other seminaries o
learning. But the difference, it is conceived
would be without effeCt.
As to books which usually fill the libraries o
the wealthier clafies and of profefiional men, fuel
an augmentation of price?, as might be occafionee
by an additional duty of five per cent, would b<
too little felt to be an impediment to the acquiii
tion.
And with regard to books which maybe speci
ally imported for the use of particular feminariej
of learning, and of public libraries, a total exem
tion from duty would be advisable, which woulc
r<o far towards obviating the obje&ion just men
rioned. They are now subjeCt to a duty of five
per cent.
As to the books .in most general family use, the
confrancy and uaiverfality of the demand would
ensure exeitTons to furnifii them at home, an»£ the
means are completely adequate. It may alfo-.be
expeCted ultimately, in this as in other cases, thai
the extenlion of the domestic manufacture would
conduce to the cheapness of the article.
It ought not to pass unremarked, that to en
courage the printing of books is to cncourage the
manufacture of paper.
REFINED SUGARS and CHOCOLATE
Are among the number of extensive and pVof
perous domestic manufactures.
Drawbacks of the duties upon the materials, ol
which they are refpeCtivelv made, in cases of ex
portation would have a beneficial influence upon
the manufacture, and would conform to a prece
dent, which has been already furnifhed, in the in
stance of molasses, on the exportation of di(!il)e<]
spirits.
Cocoa, the raw material now pays a duty of one
cent per lb. while chocolate which is a pre
vailing and very simple manufacture, is comprised
in the mass of articles rated at no more than five
per cent.
There would appear to be a propriety in en
couraging the manufacture, by a fomewbat high
er duty, on its foreign rival, than is paid on tlx
raw materia). Two cents per lb. on importec
chocolate would, it is presumed - , be without in
convenience.
THE foregoing heads comprise the most impor
tant of the several kinds of manufaCtures, which
have occurred as requiring, and, at the fame time
as mod proper for public encouragement ; am
such measures for affording if, as have appeared
best calculated to anlwer the end, have been sug
gested.
Th; observations, which have accompaniec
this delineation of objeCts, supersede the neceffit;
of many supplementary remarks. One or twi
however may not be altogether fupeifluous.
Bounties are in various instances proposed a
one species of encouragement.
It is a familiar objection to them, that they an
difficult to be managed and liable to frauds.—
But neither that difficulty nor this danger seem
fufficiently great to countervail the advantages o
which they are productive, when rightly applied
And it is presumed to have been shewn, that the)
are in some cases, particularly in the infancy o
new enterprises, ir.difpenfabie.
It will however be neceflary to guard with extrjt
ordinary circumspeCtion, the manner of difpenfirvj
them. The requisite precautions have bee»
thought of; but to enter into the detail woulc
swell this report, already voluminous, to a fjzi
too inconvenient.
If the principle fliall not be (teemed inadm'fiible
the means of avoiding an abuse of it will not b<
likely to present insurmountable obstacles, Then
are ufeful guides from praCtice in other quar
ters.
It fliall therefore only be remarked here, in re
lation to this point, that any bounty > which ma;
be applied to the manufatture of an article, canno
with latety extend beyond those manufactories
at which the making of the article is a rtgn\a\
trade. It would be impoflible to annex adequate
precautions to a benefit of that nature, if extend**
to every private family, in which the manufaCtun
was incidentally carried on, and its being a mere
ly incidental occupation which engages a portior
of time that would otherwise be loft, ic can be ad
vantageoufty carried on, without so special ai
aid.
The poflibility of a diminution of the revenut
may also present itfelf, as an objection ta the* ar
rangements, which have been fubmittedlk 4a*
Butthere is no truth which may be more firm
ly relied upon, than that the interests of tire Ye
venue are promoted, by whatever promotes an en
creafe of national ifiduftry and wealth.
In proportion to the degree of these, is the ca
pacity of every country to contribute to the publi<
treasury j and where the capacity to pay is en
creafed, or even is not decreased, the only confe
quencc of measures, which diminish any particu
lar resource, is a change of the objeCt. If by err*
couraging the manufacture of an article at home,
the revenue, which has been wont to accrue fiorr
its importation, (hould be lefiened, an indemnifi
cation can eaftly be found, either out of the ma
nufacture itfelf,or from some other objeCt, whicl
may be deemed more convenient.
The measures however which have been sub
mitted, taken aggregately, will for a long time t<
come, rather augment than decrease the public
revenue.
There is little room to hope, that the progref;
of manufactures will so equally keep pace wi{l
the progress of population, as to prevent, even a
gradual augmentation of the produCt of the dutie:
on imported articles.
As, nevertheless, an abolition in some inftancci:
and a reduction in others of duties, which hay«
been pledged for the public debt, is proposed, it 11
eilerttial, that it flvbuld be accompanied with a
competent substitute. In order to this, it is requi
site, that all the additional duties which fliall be
laid, be appropriated in the firft instance, to
place all defalcations, which may proceed from
any such abolitron or diminution. It is evident,
at fir ft glance, that they will not only be adequate
to this, but will yield a considerable surplus. This
surplus will serve,
First. Taconftitute a fund for paying the
bounties which Ilia 11 have been decreed.
Secondly. To constitute a fund for the op
erations of a board, to be eftablifiied, for promot
ing arts, agriculture, manufactures and commerce.
Of this institution, different intimations have
been given, in the course of this report. An out
line of a plan for it {hall now be submitted.
Let a certain annual sum, be set apart, anc
placed under the management of comtiiifiionirrs,
not less than three, to consist of certain officers oJ
the government and their fucceifors in office.
Let these commifHoners be empowered to apply
the fund confided"to them, to defray tbeexpcac
es of the emigration of artilis, and manufacturers
in particular branches of extraordinary impor
tance —to induce tjtie proCecution and introducti
on of ufeful difcoteries, inventions and improve
ments, by proportionate rewards, j\)diciouHy hald
out and applied—to encourage by premiums, po:h
honorable and lucrative, the exertions of u»uivi
duals, and of dalles, in relation to the feveaa! fcb
jeCis, they ar£ charged vi<t»: promorirp—-r.r,u to zf
lord such other aids to those oLjjcCi;., as may be
jtneraijy defoliated by lav .
'J he cornrnitfioners to render to the lefiGaturi
m annual account of their .tranfattioAS and ci»T
,ti.-fements j and all such fares us ihall not have
>een applied lo the purposes of their trust, at the
nd of three years, to revert to the treasury.
r may also be enjoined upon them, not t© draw
iK the sponey, but for the puipofc.of fomefpeci
ic dilburlemen t»
It may morever be of ufc, to authorise them to
eceive voluntary contributions j making it their
uty to apply them to the particular objects foi
vhich they may have been made, if any iha.l have
►ecn designated by the donors.
'there is reason to believe, that the progress or
i articular ir.2nufaCtuies has been much retarded by
hHwant ol fkiiful workmen. And it of en hap
»ens that the capitals employed are not equal to
he purposes of bringing ftom abroad woikmen of
i fupcrior kind. Here, in cases, worthy ol it, the
i-jxiliary agency of government would in all prj
ubility be ufeful. There are a!fo valuable wOrk
nen , in every branch, who are prevented sum
migrating foltly by the want of means. Occa
ional aids to such persons, properly ' aciminiftcred,
night be a fouice of valuable accuifKions to the
ountry.
The propriety 6f stimulating by rewards, the in
ention and introduction of lileful improvements,
s admitted without difficulty. Out the fu.ee eis or
ittempts in this way mult evidently depend much
m the manner of conducting them. It is pro
>able, that the placing of the gifyenfation of those
ewards under some proper diicretionary divis
ion, where they may be accompanied by eiUnter
it expedients, will serve to give them the hw uit ef
kacy. it seems impracticable to apportion, by
jeneral rules, fpecitic compensations for dileoVe
ries of unknown and disproportionate utility.
The great use which may be made of a fund of
his nature to procure and import foreign im
provements is particularly obvious. Among thefe.j
he article of machines would form a mod impor
:ant item.
The operation and utility of premiums have
aeen adverted to j together with the advantages
which haverefulted from their dispensation, un
ier the direction of certain public and. private lo
:ieties. Of this some experience has been had in
he instance of the Pennsylvania society, for the
promotion of manufactures and ufeful. aitsj. bul
:he funds of that afiociarion have been too con
tracted to produce more than a very small portion
jf the good to which the principles of it would
bave led. It may confidently be affirmed that
there is scarcely any thing, which has been devis
ed, better calculated to excite a general spirit ol
improvement than the institutions of this nature.
They are truly invaluable.
In countries where there is great private wealth
much may be effected by the voluntary contribu
tions of patriotic individuals ; butin a communit)
situated like that of the United States, the pub
tic purse must lupply the deficiency of private re
lource- In what can it be Jo ufeful as in piompt
ing and improving the efforts of induliry.
Jftt lubicb is humbly submitted.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary of the Treasury,
r LONDON, Nov. 8— *5.
Several Frenchmen, who had caused
writings on liberty to be translated into
Portuguele, were lately put on board a
vefTel to be sent back to their own coun
try.
The conduct of the captain and chief
mate of the Neptune transport, lately
returned from Botany-Bay, is about to
undergo a severe scrutiny. No lefsfhan
171 convicts died on the voyage ; and
many instances of the molt inhuman
treatment, are daily brought forward.
The dukes of Portland, Devonshire,
Norfolk, and Bedford, have set their
faces against the new Rights of Man.
Oppose the mini Her, fay they, as strong
ly as you are able, and force him out
of place as loon as possible, but med
dle not with the constitution. Our
property depends upon its exiflence, as
it now fiands.
It may be depended upon, that it
was wholly from the representations of
the queen of France to the emperor,
that the latter relinquifned his design
of invading France. The queen, per
haps from private information j learnt
the princes intended, in the event of
their success, to retain a great {hare of
the power in their own hands. Fromhei
knowledge of human nature, and expe
rience of courts, fhc imparted herappre
henfions to the emperor, and they were
probably founded in justice, for by
them he seems to have been convinced.
The French envoy at Berlin, during
the rejoicings on account of the royal
marriages, appeared constantly with
the national cockade, and all his at
tendants and servants did the fame.
The answer of the king of Prussia to
the notification of the king of the
French, is exprefled in terms firtiiFar to
those of England and Holland. Itcon
tains an acknowledgment of the notifi
cation, and expresses kind wishes for
the tranquility of the kingdom.
The states of Brabant have shaken
off their obcdience to the supreme
council of that duchy ; and their con
tempt of superior jurifdidtion has indu
ced the. emperor, as duke of Brabant,
.o order their seditious and' rcfra&ory
decrees to be ignominioufly torn from
:he records, by the common crier. The
whole country is in a ftateof ferment.
The expcnce of the war between Aus
tria, Russia, and the Porte, is thus cal
culat >A on pretty certain information.
Austria 400 millions of florins ; Russia
200 millions of roubles ; the Forte 2 r o
millions of piasters. The late war has
destroyed 130,0c0 Imperial faldicrs,
200,c00 Ruffians, and about the fame
number of lurks, making in all 530,000
men.
AW. 14. A letter from Madrid men
tions, that not with (landing the war
with the emperor of Morocco, which
vvas the pretext for augmenting the mi-.
Litary establishment of that kingdom, is.
it an end, new regiments are continu
ally established ; and adds, that this
conduct had excited strong fulpicions
and jealoufiss in every province.
The news from India, brought by the
Mcdufa frigate to France,
sd by express from Paris to the secreta
ry of date, by earl Gowcr, the British
ambassador, and immediately submitted
to the public, with all its attendant cir
cumstances by administration. Upon
inquiry among pcrfons most conversant
with India affairs,we find their opinion
□11 the fubjett to be this : That lord
Cornwallis knowing that the capture
of Seringapatam was the grand object
of the campaign, has pufned forward
to attain it with all possible expedition ;
but that 1 ippoo foreieeing what h:s
lordship's line of march must be, had
laid the country waste, with a view to
impede the progress of his enemy's
army. 1 hat lord Cornwallis had, in
eonfecjuencc, f<rlt it so far difficult to
iubfift his troops, that he found it ne
cessary to retire ; *md that Tippoo had
seized upon the occasion, and written
to the French government at Pondi
cherry, exaggerating the circumstances,.
and adding various particulars, with
a view to degrade the character of the
British arms. When it is considered
that the country through which lord
Covnwallis had to march, is not natu
rally fertile, and when denuded of its
scanty produce, must be void of yield
ing any provifton whatever ; and when
it is also observed, that neither our go
vernment. nor the East-India company,
have received any intelligence of the
event through any regular channel of
our own, this conftruftion of the news
from India appears to be highly proba
ble, and if just, it is not the most plea
sant to this country.
Mr. Pitt has been particularly atten
tive lately to the condition and num
ber of troops in our Weft-IndiaHlands f
and has minutely examined the secreta
ry at war twice in the course of the pre
sent week on the fubjeft ; and from the
best intelligence we fan produce, and
the tonnage of shipping advertised for
by government (which is 2,400 tons)
the military force now preparing to em
bark for the Welt-Indies will amount
to about 2,000 men.
Letters were on Tuefdav received in
town from Gibraltar, which mentions
that the peace betvveen the Spaniards
and Moors had been fully ratified.
Yesterday the deputation of Weft-
India merchants and planters, waited
on Mr. Pitt, by order of the general
meeting held at the London Tavern 011
Tuesday ; they presented the resolu
tions which passed the committee, re
questing the protefction of government
in their refpe&ive settlements, islands,
&c. Mr. Pitt, accompanied by lord
Grenville, received them.
Mr. Pitt's answer was, —"That he
was of opinion the present forces in the
Weft-Indies were fully fufficient for
the protection of our colonies, and that
he thought,at his duty, out of favor to
the public, to acquaint the committee,
that if the gentlemen wifnedfor further
reinforcements to be sent thither, it
must be at the expence of the colonies,
and not at the expence of the public.
*„* A few copies of the REPORT of
the Secretary of the Ttea.fv.ry, on thefubje'E
of manufactures, may be had at ihe
Ojjkt, No. 239, High-Street.
PRINTED BY
C H I L D S AND SW AINE,
AT THEIR ©FFICE, NO. 239> HIGH-STREET,
V Z A'R SJtfTH-STREIT,
ThitADlLfHl A»