'
Vol. I.
translations
From French and Dutch papers to Dee. 2-
PARIS, November 29.
[ The following remarkable letter is from
Madame Dufaillant, fijler of the late ''pa
triotic Mi r Abe au, to the Editor of
Moniteur Uni vcifel, a new/paper print
ed at Paris.~\
YOU will be pleased, Mr. Editor,
to insert in your paper my pro
test against a certain oath, aflerting the
insolvency of M. Mirabeau, and addrefl'ed
to the legidative body.—lt is true, my
brother left debts, and it is poflibte that
his moveable estate may be infufficient
to pay them : But all the seals are not
vet taken off, and the petitioner, Mr.
Frochot, who styles himfelf my bro
ther's friend, and who is really the ex
ecutor of his last will, ought to be in
formed, that M. Mirabeau, was veiled,
in virtue of his marriage contrast, with
a large landed estate, no way involved
at the time of his death, and in value far
beyond the amount of all his debts. It
has frequently been said in my hearing
that " M. Mirabeau wanted nothing to
establish his character as a great man,
except a declaration of his inlolvency."
I wish to be informed, if those who
have broached this sentiment would
have dared to make use of such lan
guage to my brother in his life time ?
M. Frochot ftiould keepto himfelf these
strange ideas of morality, and learn in
futu re to pay more refpeft to the duties
of friendfhip, to confine himfelf to his
duty as executor of my brother's will,
and to know so much of law-process as
not to take so important a step as he has
done, without the consent and approba
tion of the Mirabeau family."
Nov. 30. A deputation of Parisian
artists (not academicians) appeared at
the bar of the legillative National As
sembly some time since, requesting the
explanation of the decree relative to the
distribution of the rewards adjudged tc
the artists, who have ornamented the hall
of the Louvre with figures of sculpture
emblematical of the renovated liberties
of France. The Vice President, previ
ous to making the necessary explanati
ons, addressed the deputation as fol
lows—Gentlemen ! " Greece has ren
dered herfelf famous through the uni
verfebyher love for liberty, and her
generous passion for the fine arts. Upon
the decline of the Grecian power, both
these affections were transferred to Ita
ly, perpetuating the name of the Roman
Empire;—and to this day we fee men
of the fineft understandings running in
crowds to Rome to weep over the alli
es of the Cato's, and to admire their un
rivalled works of genius. The French
nation, hitherto shackled with the
chains of despotism, but designed by
nature to be great, with pleasure be
holds men rising from the bosom of their
empire, to dispute the palm of genius
with the artists of Greece and Italy,
and to anticipate to their country many
ages of well-earned glory. Having vin
dicated ourselves into freedom, we lhall
now a Hume a more exalted national
chara&er than heretofore, and by an
originality of design, lay claim to the
j.'eneration of posterity. Inflamed with
the spirit of expanded patriotism, eaget
for liberty and honour, our hearts glow
with the sentiments imprelfed by the re
volution, and exult in the idea that the
artist with his creative chillel, or the
magic pencil, is preparing to transmit tc
the latest ages the noblest event that
ever the world witnefled, and the im
ages of those celebrated men whose wis
dom and courage completed the mighty
talk.—Reft aftured, Gentlemen, that the
National Assembly will not fail to en
courage, to their utmost, those arts
which excite the foul to generous acti
ons, and contribute to the happiness of
mankind. We well know, that your
exclusion from the Academy of arts
does by no means exclude you from im-
By P. FR E N EA U : Publijhed. Mondays and Thursdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
mortality. We know also that the
fires of genius cannot be easily extin
guished by narrow regulations and aca
demical monopolies ; and in the additi
onal decree which you solicit, expe£
that the AfTembly will adopt such mea
fures as shall enable the arts to keep ai
equal pace with liberty, which united,
shall advance our national honour ,tc
the highest poflible degree of humar
perfe£lion—The assembly invites you tc
await its fitting".
Lcyd.cn, Dec. 1. While the English
for the fake of carrying devaftatior
through the East-Indies, are rathei
flack in fending troops to their Weft
India lettlements, to overawe the slaves
who are, without doubt, ripe for a re
volt, Holland is determined to obfervt
a direttly opposite condutt, in taking
mealuresof precaution against a fpirii
of infurreftion in the colonies of the Re
public, in the Weft-Indies. The grant
of our Weft-India company having ex
pired, a fleet will soon be sent out to takt
formal poffeflion of the company's ter
ritories, in the name of the sovereignty
of the States General. Belides thi;
equipment, a frigate of 36 guns, 15c
marines, and 80 soldiers, with twe
Brigs of 16 guns, 60 marines, and 2c
soldiers, each, are to be dispatched tc
Surinam and Berbice. Their High
Mightinesses have fettled a cartel with
the court of Madrid for a mutual ex
change of defertersand fugitives in their
refpettive American colonies, the arti
cles of-which [at the present juncture]
seem to claim particular attention, and
we therefore insert them entire. 1. It
is agreed, that there shall be a recipro
cal restitution of black and white de-
tlae DuitcK and SpaniOl
colonies in America ; more especially
those the most liable to fuffering by de
sertion, that is to fay ; between Porto-
Rico and St. Euftatia ; Cora (on the
Spauifh main) and CuralToe; and the
poifefiions of both parties on the Oro
noque, EfTequebo, at Demarara, Ber
bice, and Surinam.—2. The restitution
above mentioned shall be legally made,
at the price fixed in the subsequent ar
ticle, and as soon as may be after de
mand made by the owr.cr or owners,
who shall nevertheless be obliged to
make their claim within a year, count
ing from the day of desertion ; but after
the expiration of that term all farther
claim shall be void; and the fugitives
shall then belong to tlie actual sovereign
of the country to which they have fled.
3. At the firft summons to surrender the
fugitive negro men or women, the chief
or governor from whom the demand is
made shall take every measure in his
power to have the deserters seized, and
delivered to their masters, who shall pay
for each a realc per day, for their main
tenance, till they are re-delivered into
the pofleflion of their owners, besides
a premium of 25 piasters for each de
serter, to re-imburfe the expences of
seizure an d imprisonment. 4. —The ref
pettive plenipotentiaries, attuated by
motives of humanity, have irrevocably
agreed and determined, that for the fu
ture, the pain of death, mutilation, per
petual imprisonment, or the like, shall
not be inflitted upon any negro man 01
woman, merely for simple desertion :
unlefsit shall appear they have committed
crimes, over and above desertion, which
for atrocioufnefs may deserve capital
punishment; in which cafe notification
shall be made, at the time they are re
claimed. 5. If the fugitive negroes,
commit any crime in the place to which
they may have fled, that exposes them
to legal punishment, the judges of that
territory shall take information thereon,
and shall not give up the guilty person
tilljuftice shall have been firft fktisfied.
If they have committed theft, they shall
notbereftored till the masters make
good to the value of what has been sto
len : and that they may not be under
the necessity of paying debts contratted
MONDAY, March 5, 1792.
by the fugitives, publication shall bt
made in the dominions of either party
that duringtheabfenceof therun-a-ways
from their lawful masters, or imprifcn
ment, they shall lie under an incapacil)
of contra&ing debts. 6. The profeffioi
of religion shall not hinder the reftora
tion of slaves, nor lerve as a pretext foi
a refulal to give them up in future. The
fugitives from the Dutch colonies, \vhc
during their residence among the Span
iards shall have embraced the catholic
religion, shall, after their return, con
tinue to profefs the fame in the Dutcl
colonies, freely and without hindrance
as permitted bv the wisdom of theii
high Mightinesses, throughout all theij
dominions. [ The 7th article only res
pects the foluiers deserting from the
garrisons of either power, who are to be
given up reciprocally, without any pe
cuniary confederation ; —the Bth is for
mal ; advertising the governors, &c
to cause to be obl'ervcd, &c.J
Nov. 29. Nothing is more difficuli
than to make laws, that shall be clear
precifc <S;perfe£llv free from obfeurity &
ambiguity. The history of all nation:
complains aloud of the infufficiency 01
the errors of legillators in this refpeft
Nothing. however, is of more impor
tance to the happinels of political soci
eties. The greater part of the evils thai
afflict or divide them may be traced uj
to such a species of imperfection in laws
which, by this means, leave too much tc
the arbitrary decisions of an individual
This fault (want of precision &c.) seem:
to be glaringly manifefted in the decree
of the national assembly of France, rela
live to the non-juring clergy, in thai
part which relates to the oath they are
enjoined to take. If, instead of the
words, to maintain the conjlitution to tht
utmojl of their power (which means nc
more than the observation of the civic
oath) the assembly had substituted, obey
the conjlitution; perhaps there would
not have existed the least difficulty on
the part of the priefls, since, without ar
open declaration of rebellion, the)
could not have refufed to obey the conjli
tution ; but, to maintain it to the utmojl oj
their ■power conveys a different idea
to which it seems impossible to make
the eccleiiaftics conform, since the a
bove words positively demand not only 1
simple obedience to the law', but a con
tinued succession of active endeavour:
to extend and ensure the execution o:
the law ; which is certainly going faj
beyond what the government has i
l ight to expect from them. It is to be
feared, therefore, that a vast majorit)
of the clergy will reject this new mca
fure, which may involve thekingdom ir
trouble and disaster.
Nov. 30. Magnanimous as the gene
ral proceedings of the national assembly
may appear, there can be no doubt thai
a lpirit of intolerance exists among them.
This spirit seems to have difiated the
decree againfl the emigrants, and ac
counts for its not being fanftioned by
the king. I o put a host of men under
the trying alternative of committing per
jury or perifhingof hunger, seems toe
much, and unbecoming an age of phi
losophy. However severe the decree
againfl the non-conforming clergy may
be supposed, it cannot be dissembled
that this body of men having highly
provoked the utmost severity of the
law. The greater part of the troubles
which at this moment diftraft the seve
ral diftrifts of the kingdom, are abso
lutely of their exciting, and howevei
inclined we may be to indulgence, it is
impossible not to fee, that it is neither a
spirit of religion, nor a zeal for holy
things that directs their actions ; but,
on the contrary, avarice, rage, and an
ardent thirfl for revenge. To the ac
count of the priests may be set down
the horrid scenes tranfafted at the town
of Caen. Ihe noblejfe, who swarm in
that place, wished to render it the scene
of a counter-revolution, and made use
Numb. 37.
of the priests to accomplish their designs
with more certainty. For this purpose
many of the noblefife, who had till then
known nothing more of mass than the
name, became in an instant extremely
devout.—Their projects however have
all vanished, and left them covered
with shame and confufion, but no con
trition or conviction.
LEGISLATURE of the UNITED STATES.
House of Representatives.
(Thi-following are the headi of the proceedings in
Conerefs on ibe Militia Bill, on Turjday laji )
THE firft feftion was amended, by
rcftritting the militia to " free able
bodied 'white' male citizens it having
been said, that the militia would be
brought into contempt, by permitting
free negroes to stand in the ranks,
and perform military service with the
whites.
Mr. Fitzfimons moved further to a
mend the feftion, by the addition of the
following clause :
" Provided that where any militia
man, lo enrolled, shall produce a cer
tificate from two magistrates of the
county, in which he resides, that he is
not of fufficient ability to purchase
the arms and accoutrements here
in directed to be provided, every such
militia-man shall be excused from th 6
payment of any fine on account of
the wan> of such arms and accoutre
ments. so long as his inability to pro
cure the fame shall continue."
To this it was objected, that the of
ficers of the company would be more
proper judges ; and an amendment was
accordingly proposed to Mr. Fitzfimon's
amendment.
On the other hand, a certificatefrom
a magistrate was thought preferable,
and less liable to a charge of partiality.
Again it was said, that no man, who
has not a family, can possibly be so poor,
as not to be able to purchase the arms
and accoutrements required. [Theft
are, a good musket, firelock, or rijle, a bayo
net and belt, two jpareflints, and a knap
sack, a pouch and cartouch box.] It was
accordingly moved, to amend the a
mendment,by adding the words "ha
ving a family."
This amendment .having failed,
It was observed, that there are in ma
ny places, magistrates, who are consci
entiously scrupulous of bearing arms, &
might be inclined to grant certificates
where others would not.
It was said likewise, that as the a
mendment contemplated a certificate
from any magistrates of the county, in
which the militia-man resides, and as in
some counties the jullices of the peace
are numerous, this circumstance will
give each man an opportunity of choos
ing his own judges, and going the rounds
through the whole county from one ma.
giUrate to another, until at last he may
obtain a certificate, though at firft re
fufed.—The officers, who are thought
competent to command a company of
militia, ought surely to be thought com
petent to decide whether the men under
their command are able to purchase
arms or not.
Various substitutes were offered, in
lieu of the "two magistrates."—viz. a
majority of the commissioned officers of
the company,"—the field officers of the
battalion;" a the commiflion
ed officers, and one of the field officers
of the regiment."
Before the question was taken on
any of these amendments.
An objection was made to having the
militia-men obliged to provide their
own arms and accoutrements. The ex
pense, it was said, would prove an enor
mous tax upon the community: and the
whole United States cannot furnifh a
fufficient quantity of such arms as the
bill prescribes, to supply the number of
men, who will be enrolled in the mi
litia.A motion \Vas '.io\v'ni;.de, to flrike out all
that part of Chefection, whicia.relates to the
armature of the militia-men.
The expense of equipping themselves
was looked upon ; s a kind oi capitation or
poll-tax—but a poll tax unequally laid, as
it is to be borne by a certain dpfcription of
men only, who, be.'ides expending their
money, will also contribute their personal
services, for the common defence, whilst
other descriptions of citizens will be ex
empt. —Suppose 500,600 men to be enroll
ed in the militia, and the armature of ?ach
man to colt him only four dollars ; here
would, in the.tirft inltance, be a tax of two
millions of dollars :—Suppofe again, each
day, which is devoted to militia to be
valued at half a dollar, there being four
days in every year allotted for that pur
pose, here would again be an annual tax oi
another million of dollars borne by less than
one fifth part of the community, for the de
fence of the whole.
The question was taken on the motion
for striking out, and pasTed in the negative.
The question being taken on the proviso,
pal Ted in the affirmative, with a:i amend
ment, making the lield officers the judges
of each man's ability to equip himfelt and
exempting him from fine or forfeiture for
the want of arms, only so long as his inabil
ity to purchase them shall continue, or " un
til th v can be procured for him-"
A motion, made by Mr. Kitchell, toftrike
out the description of the bore of the fire
arms, gave rife to a short debate in which
it was observed, fhat if the objeit in view
was to have the arms uniform and all of the
fame caliber, that object would not be at
tained by the clause under consideration ;
as it Hill leaves a latitude, faying only " oj
a Lore not [mailer than —— balls to the pound.''
—If it was meant to have the muskets all
of the fame bore, it would be difficult tc
procure them for a long time to come, and
the expense would be enormous ; it w oulci
be extravagance in the extreme to throw
away as useless all the arms in the United
States, and incur at once an expense of per
haps ten millions of dollars
Aiter further remarks on the inconveni
ences that must refnlt from too ftrift an at
tention to Uniformity of bore,
An honorable Gentleman arose. and ex
preifed his disapprobation of the bill in gen
eral.—lt had been laid (he obfei>ed) that
the only fafe and substantial defence of the
United States was a good militia : when
the new government was formed, a militia
system had been broached :—A bill had
been framed, and taken into consideration:
but it was soon found, that nothing like the
militia at firft contemplated, could be ob
tained : fellion after fellion, the proposed
militia law had been difcufl'ed, debated, al
tered, amended, till at length it was parea
down to its present form ; and it would be
difficult to find such a ndlk and water thing, as
it now is. If the United States are to have
no better militia than what will be raised
under this law, recourse must be had to
what is called ' a Handing army.'—A mili
tia, armed with fowling pieces and squirrel
guns, would never answer any good pur
pose : during the late war, this had been
proved by experience, when more men ol
this description had been buried, thar
would, if properly armed, have been fuffi
cient to have cafried on the whole war.—
If the militia are to be no better armed,
than is now proposed, it is be ft to fay a fhor!
prayer over the bill, and let it die in peace,
To these remarks, an honorable gentle
man replied, that iAany hadperifhed durinj
the late war for want of comfortable
cloathing and other neccffaries ; but he hac
cot heard of any dying for want of heavj
muikets en their shoulders. —He wilhed tc
fee a democratic militia, not an aristocratic
0;le ; —the militia to his mind, is a militia
of freemen, pofiefied of their own arms,
and capable of making good use of them.
The question being'taken on striking out
the description of the bore, and having pasT
ed in the negative,
It was proposed to fill the blank, for the
number of balls to the pound, with 18, 20.
22, and 32.
After some remarks on the different sizes,
&c. the blank was left to be filled up, aftei
the reft of the bill is gone through.
A motion was then made to strike out the
whole of the second session, which enume
rates the different descriptions of persons
who are to be exempted from militia duty.
A short debate ensued, after which, with
out taking the question, the committee rose
and reported progress.
[ The remainder of the proceedings of Ccvgrefs, fo<
thejajl weekare unavoidably pofiponed till our next._
Remarks on CAIUS ;
[ From the Virginia Gazette of the 22d. «/(.]
make a nation happy, and at the fam c
JL time refpeftable, ;s not an easy talk'
To raise it from obfeurity into fpiendour,
and from apparent insolvency into actual
and extensive credit, requires infinite la
bour, real talents, anel a profound and com
prehenlive knowledge of national affairs.
The individual who liiall attempt toaccom
plilh these important ends, must pt)ffefs, to
gether with the other qualifications of c
ftatefinan, a laVje portion of (lability and
mental firmnels to support hkn. under the
numerous and trying attacks whVch he mufi
expect to receive, from the igrror: nt, the
disappointed, apd the malicious. Experi
ence informs us. that these descriptions of
men are to be found in all countries —and
in all countries have diflinguilhed tliem
felves by their illiberal attempts to injure
in the public opinion, the virtuous and de
serving part of their fellow-citizens. A re
cent example of this is to be found in the
publications which have lately appeared in
a Philadelphia paper, under the signature
of Caius. The unmanly intemperance of
this writer hurries him beyond the bounda
ries of every thing but reason : her sacred
confines he has not touched upon. But
personal invective and scurrility have felt
the potent effects of his exhaufling pen.
Cains demands of the world admiration for
his fervent eloquence ; but by the delibe
rate and judicious'part of mankind he will
be considered as an empty declaimer, pur
ruing literary fame, and the gratification of
private pique or resentment, rather than
the public good.
When Caius disapproves the systems of
the Miuifter of Finance (for a Minister he
will have him, though he affe£ts to detefl
both borrowed names and principles) he
disclaims the usual modes of logical proof,
and endeavours to eltablifn his point, by a
figurative dogma. It would have been
more fatisfaftory to the coufiderate part of
the American public, if this writer had pro
ceeded dispassionately to examine the prin
ciples of our financial fvltein—to point out
its errors, and those parts of it particularly
from which such imminent danger is to be
apprehended. Nor ought he to have flop
ped here. The duty of a public friend urg
ed him Hill further—it said to him—Caius,
you have alarmed your country— you have
mfufecl or have attempted to infufe disquiet
Ind diltrufl into the minds of your fellow
citizens. It is now your duty to place them
in a better and more fafe situation, or at
lead to rellore to them that quiet which you
have taken away. But Caius seems to have
lad other things to do ; and indeed if we
nay judge of the depth of his political fci
;nce, from thefpecimen which his writings,
litherto, have exhibited, he is not com
pletely fitted for the discharge of this latter
part of his duty.
I am well aware, that the perfection of
political schemes of any kind, is not to be
;ffe£ted, but by a gradual amelioration ;
ind that there must be some to find out,
md publifli errors, and others to corrett
hem. I blame not Caius therefore, mere
y because he has not undertaken the dis
charge of this complicated office: but be
:aufe, by his thundering reprobation of our
ifcal arrangements, and the censure which
le pours upon the Minister of the Treasury,
t would seem, that he was not only ac
quainted with the defects and dangers of
:he exifling system, but had also been ac
:uflomed to contrail it with one of his .own
proje&ion, better calculated for the public
rood. Why then has he not favored us
with the lights of his invention ? He tells
is, that he can fee ; and that we are out of
jur way : but why, Caius, since it is dark to
jther travellers, and you can discern the
rack which they are in quest of—Why, my
lear Caius, do you not put them right ?
As I am not so well lkilled in the know
edge of human affairs, as those over whom
nore funs and seasons have revolved, and
lm willingto confefsmy comparative igno
rance of those things which are contained
n the book of experience; I beg leave to
ilk, for the fake of procuring information,
Whether there be within the great cir
:le of terreflrial affairs, a single good, pure,
md unmixed with evil ? Abstract reasoning
jpon practical fubje&s, is, at bed, but an
die thing. It does well enough for the
;xercife of the Ichools; though there per
haps, it might find a better fubflitute ; but,
it is a shame to bring it from the dully
(helves of the pedagogues into the light of
a£lual life.
I perceive, Caius, that you and I differ
widely in our political opinions, arid there
fore I fnall not pursue the fub'eft into
which I was about to plunge, any farther at
present; because it deserves to be treated
by itfelf ; and as I fha.ll never again address
myfelf to your person, or your manner, but
if ever I write to you or concerning you in
future, lhall confine myfelf to " the matter
of the text," with which you lhall be pleaf
ecl to furnifh me. Permit me, without af
front, for I assure you that 1 intend none,
to indulge the irr.pulfe of a fraternal re
gard for all the gentlemen writers and de
claimers throughout this vast continent, and
even throughout the world, by offering for
your consideration, a query; —to which I
have undertaken to add, a ihort sentence of
salutary monition.
Do you think Caius, because it is cold
weather,-that no information will be ac
cepted—no counsel adopted by your coun
trv,'but that which is conveyed to her in fire?
If you do—abandon the thought—for be
lieve me, that he who hopes to bear down
the judgment of the American people, by
swelling the tide of the blood, is a flranger
to their temper and constitution.
A. C-
For the National Gazette.
Republican dijlnbvtion of Citizens.
APKKKKCT theory on this subject
would he ufeAjl, not because it could
be reduced to practice by any plan of legis
lation, or ought to be attempted by vio
lence on tlie will or property of individu
als : but because it would be a monition
against empirical experiments by power,
and a model to which the free choice oi
occupations by the people, might gradually
approximate the order of society.
The best distribution is that which would
moll favor health, virtue, intelligence and compe
tency in thegreatrjl number of citizens. It i'
needless to add to these objects, liberty anc
fafety. The firft is presupposed by "them.
The last must result from them.
The life of the husbandman is pre-emi
nently suited to the comfort and happinef
of the individual. Health, the firft of blef
lings, an appurtenan< e*of his property
and his employment. Virtue, the health o1
the foul, is another part ot his patrimony,
and no less favored by his situation. Intel
'igcnce may be cultivated in this as well as ir
any other walk of life. If the mind be lef;
susceptible of polish in retirement than in r
croud, it is more capable of profound anc
comprehensive efforts- Is it more ignor
mt of some things ? It has a compenfatioi
in its ignorance of others. Competency i:
more univerfaHy the lot of those whe
:l\vell in the country, when liberty is at the
fame time their lot. The extremes botl
ofwant and of waste have other abodes
'Tis not the country that peoples either tht
Bridewells or the Bedlams. These mansion
nf wretcliednefs are tenanted from the dif
trefTes and vices of overgrown cities
The condition, to which the blessings o:
ife are molt denied is that of the sailor
His health is continually assailed and hi'
"pan shortened by the stormy element tc
svh'ch he belongs. His virtue, at no time
tided, is occasionally exposed to ever}
cene that can poison it. His mind, lik<
lis body, is hnprifoned within the bark tha
ranfports him. Though traversing anc
"ircumnavigatingthe globe, he fees nothin;
■>ut the fame vague objects of nature, th<
ame monotonous vecurrences in ports ant
locks ; and at home in his vessel, what nev
deascan (hoot from the unvaried use of thi
•opes and the rudder, or from the fociet;
>f comrades as ignorant as himfelf- In tin
upply of his wants he often feels a scarcity
c leion more than a bare fuftenanc ; ant
f his ultimate profpefts do not embittei
iheprcfent moment, it is because he nevei
ooks beyond it. How unfortunate, tha
nthe intercourse, by which nations an
and refined, and their means o.
"iifety ejuemted. me immeuiate agent:
hould be diftinguiflied by the hardest con
lition of humanity.
The great interval between the two ex
remes, is, with a few exceptions, filled b>
hose who work the materials furnilhed b)
he earth in its natural or cultivated state-
It is fortunate in general, and particul
arly for this country, that so much of the
>rdinary and most essential consumption.
akes place in fabrics which can be prepar
ed in every family, and which constitute
ndeed the natural ally of agriculture. The
ormer is the work within doors, as the
atteris without ; and each being done by
lands or at times, that can be spared from
:he other, the most is made of every thing.
The class of citizens who provide at
ince their own food and their own rai
ncnt, may be viewed as the most truly in
lependent and happy. They are more :
:hey are the best baiis of public liberty, anc
:he strongest bulwark of public fafety. Ii
ollows, that the greater the proportion ol
his class to the whole society, the more
ree, the more independent, and the more
lappy must be the society itfelf.
In appreciating the regular branches o!
nanufafturing and mechanical induftrv.
:heir tendency must be compared with the
principles laid down, and their merits gra
duated accordingly. Whatever is least fa
vorable to vigor of body, to the faculties o!
:he mind, or to the virtues or the utilities
jf life, instead of being forced or fofteret
ty public authority, ought to be seen with
"egret as long as occupations more friend
y to human happiness, lie vacant.
The several profeffions of more elevatee]
jretenfions, the merchant, the lawyer, the
ihyfician, the philosopher, the divine, form
i certain proportion of every civilized so
ciety, and readily adjust their numbers tc
its demands, and its circumstances.
March 3.
NEWPORT (R. I.) Feb. 11.
I.aft Monday arrived here, the (loop
Newport packet, Capt, Shaw, in fix days
from Charleston, who informs that jufl
before he failed, a vell'el arrived here in
in 9 days from the Cape, and brought an
account of the arrival of the French fleet,
with a large body of troops, &c.
ExtraEl of a letter from Cape-Francoi', Jan. 23.
" A ship from Nantz is arrived at the
Aux-Cays, after a passage of 29 days, and
brings an account, that on the 15th of No
vember rß,ooo troops, together with men
of war, frigates, &c. failed for this place
and Port-au-Prince, which agrees with the
accounts brought by the frigate Lafine, ar
rived some time ago.
PHILADELPHIA.
March 5, 1792.
Copy of a Utter from a gentleman of the kfi inform
ation at Cape-Franco s, to kis corref l Undent m
this city, dated Jun. 21.
Sir,
" UNDER the 28th Dec. ult. I did myfelf
the honor to acquaint you that the Brigands
were apparently weary of their horrid pw
fuits and that tranquility appeared to he
dawning on the northern diflrictof this unhappy
colony. lam very lorry now to acquaint yoii
that the flatieiing prolpeft has been recently ob
scured, by unexpected depredations of the in
surgents. For about a fortnight pad those re
morseless savages have been goong over their
o-round again to glean what had hitherto escaped
the fickle of deftiuftion. They have am ul .1
themselves by letting fire to the ripe cane-fields
which burn as readily as dry forelh of pitch -
pine, and revive the melancholy idea of ihc.
greater conflagration which dtftroyed the valua
ble buildings on the fame plantations. Indeed
this second burning seems to throw almoll as
great a damp upon the fpitits of the rnhabrtawis
as the fiift did ; because they had flattered them
selves with the hope that they lhould make a
partial crop of sugar this fenfon, which would
have relieved their immediate wants ; but thro'
the unaccountable delay of the expefled afli'K
iince from France, this relource is now cut oif,
and the di appointed planters mull submit 10 a
greater degree of humiliation than they had any
previous idea of. 1 hough five months have
now elapftd since the infurreflion commenced,
no forces have arrived to the luccour of the
olony. The Brigands observing government
;hus dilatory, are encouiaged to perpetrate fur
;her mifchief. They even persuade themselves
:hat Fiance gives up the colony entirely, and
:hat therefore they may continue to harrafs the
legal piopnetois ajid destroy the gleanings of
;heir wafted property with impunity. I .alt
week they fell upon a place called St. Su
zanne, in the south-east "part of this diflrict. That
place being inhabited pnncipallv, if notaltoge
iher, by free people of colour, had hitherto ef
:aped deftrutlion ; but every habitation that
was there'n is row laid in afties. On Saturday
light or Sunday morning last, a party of the in
urgents surprised an advanced poll near Fort-
Dauphin, where an officer of the Regiment du
Zap was stationed with about fifty men, mostly
lelonging to that regiment. When the alarm
.uas given, M. Touzard, the commandant in
hat quarter, made a fortee to succour the post,
>ut was unfortunate!v too late. He found the
lead bodies of the officer and forty-five of the
nen, in the redoubt, ftript naked and mangled
n a moll horrid manner. Finding the Brigands
11 toice all around mm, tiic commandant thought
t most prudent to retreat into Fort Dauphin as
pecdily as pofiible. He has since sent down
in express to acq aint government that if he has
lot an immediate reinforcement of two to three
lundred men, he cann t arifwer for the lafety
if his present post. That day (Sunday last) the
/iftorious insurgents burnt the panftres of Ou
maminthe and Mirabarau, and it is said, every
nher habitation quite to Fort-Dauphin. 1 hus
ibout sixty sugar plantations, and two hundred
ind twenty of Coffee* are to th'e cata
ogue of those destroyed.
On Wednesday last two of the national com
nidartes went 111 person aboard the different
American vctfels in the port and lolicrted wrth
he utmost earnestness for the afTiftance of about
wenty men, who were wanted 10 be employed
is cannonniers at Fort-Dauphin. ihe com-
Tiiffaries made a very atlecting representation
ihe diftrell situation of the colony, and re
setted the captains to take it intocontrderation.
Many of the captains agreed to permit any of
heir' sailors to go who chose it, and the next
.morning, agreeably to the rcqucft of thecoma
milTaries, lent a deputation to notify then con
sent. A Mr. Riley, of Connecticut, tendered
lisfervices to command the party. On 1 hurf
jav twenty volunteers (lailors) turned out, and
they departed for Fort-Dauphin, with
Vlr. Riley. lam told thattwo hundred French
ailors went up there at the fame time.
The latest accounts from the upper part or
he colony do not mention any new occu rence.
%n evident coolness between the legiilative and
■xecutive departments rncrcafes daily, wnich
annotbut be detrimental to the general imerelt
)f the colonv. It is my opt,.ion that nothing
an effefituaily recover this colony from its pre
ent diftrafted (late, and fettle its tranquility oil
l permanent basis, but a new commander
hies of great capacity, with a veiv rcfpetlable •
>ody of troops, who will not mingle in the po
itical disputes of the colonists, but, by giving
>ne party a decided preponderance will anni
lilate all others."
7opy of another Letter from the fame Gentleman,
dated Cape-Francois, Jan. 24.
Sir,
ON the presumption that it would be agree
ible to you to know the aOual state of
he commotions in this colony, I have irom
ime to time during my residence here, taken
he liberty to transmit you a concile detail ot
he most remarkable occurrences which have
allien within the fphcre of my obfervatton.
My last was under the 21ft current.
Permit me now to inform you, that on the
22d 5 at evening, this city was aiarmed by afmart
cannonade from the batteries of Petit Ance and
the plantation cali'd St. Michael* which are lituatcd on the fouth-eaflern fide of the bay. Frorr
7 till g o'clock near one hundred shot were fired
The repott ran that it was occasioned by the ap
pearance of a coofiaetable body of theßiigand;
who had the temeiiiy to approach St. Michel
apparently with the intention ol attempting tc
bum it and Petit Ance, as lighted torches wert
atiually difcoveied in their hands. After the
firing had ccafed, the city berame tolerably qui
et. That evening my totir of duty came on al
the American Corps-de Garde. It was near 2
A. M. when we weie alarmed by a dilchargc
of mufquctry, which seemed to be near the
southern entrance of the city. In a few minutes
the alarm became general, and the cry, uhx
armcs, aux amies, flew through every street. It
wa- soon known that a party of the insurgents
had forded the little river of Haut du Cap, and
had surprised a small redoubt within half a mile
ot the city, and the hospital which is near it. A
party of twelve soldiers, nnder command of a
lerjeant, who were flationed there, had been
obliged to abandon their pofl, but kept up a
Heady fiie as they retreated. The aflailants
immediately turned one or two of the guns in
the redoubt upon the town, and fired several
shot, but without doing any mifchief. A de
tachment of the Regiment du Cap was immedi
ately ordered cut.—The Patriotic Cavalry and
Guarde Nationale accompanied them, and in
a few minutes dislodged the insurgents, who
had by this time taken polfefiion of the hospital,
but had not set it on fire, as they at firft intend
ed. Some negro attendants at the hospital gave
the sick such timely notice of the approach of
their unexpected visitors, that all of them, ex
cept two, had time to crawl away and conceal
thetnfelves, and thereby escaped aflaHination.
Two unfortunate invalids, who through the ope
ration of fear, or corporeal weakness, were more
tardy than the reft, and were inhumanly mur
dered.
The cavalry pulhed on to the fortificatior at
llaut du Cap, and ilfuing by that puss, took a
cncuitou» route 011 the other fide of the riveraud
came in by Petit Ance.
A Mr. Roux, a merchant here, but an officer
of a mulatto corps attached to government, who
was flationed at Haut du Cap, was on his way
fiom town tothat port, accompanied by the ad
jutant of the Regiment du Cap ; —without any
previous noti e they fell into the midfl of the
insurgents jufl when the latter had forded the
river, and were both cut to pieces. This was
all the loss I have heard of on the part of the
whites.
In the course of the fkirmilh and pursuit, it is
said 27 of the insurgents were killed. Seven
were taken prisoners. It seems the afTailants
were badly aimed. Tbey had foine few mus
kets and pistols; but moll of them were armed
either with spits, curtain-rods pointed, poles
with spike nails lafh'd on the end, or hard wood
en launces sharpened after the manner of many
other savages. One or ihe prisoners appeared
to be a chief of his party, being dreft in a scarlet
uniform coat with lilver epaulets. When ex
amined yeflerday morning at the government
house, he oblerved that his partizans obtained
arms and ammunition from the Spaniards, and
could have any quantity, provided they could
give sugar and colf'ee in payment. This chief
and his fix fellow prisoners were publicly execu
ted yeflerday afternoon ala place armcs.
Between midnight and one o'clock this morn
ing a falfe alarm was given, which bioke the ci
tizens of a few hours reft. I expe£t to be har
rafled m this manner continually till some af
fiflance arrives from France.
Since this bold attempt of the insurgents has
terminated so favorably for the whites, it may
be conlidered as a fortunate occurrence ; —it will
serve to awaken the vigilance of the citizens,
and teach them the danger of despising an enemy
because his refourres are apparently (canty.—
Desperation may fomctimes supply the want of
force and means."
Information is given in a Charleston pa-
P er \ that Bowles, the pretended Indian
Chief, and a Major Cunningham, from
New-Providence, at the head of upwards
of seventy renegade Indians had taken pof
feilion of the stores of Mefi'rs. Panton, Les
lie. and Co. at Apalache, and sent oif the
white people in a canoe.
The South Carolina agent ha* claimed
from the United States, for that ffate, on
account of expenses incurred in the late
war, the principal sum of 9,155,313 dollars;
and the interelt thereon to the 9th of De
cemoer 1789, 5,176,985d011ar5.
The defeat of Gen* St. Clair (fays a
Charleston paper) is a fiibjeft of great ex
ultation among the Indians of the Cherokee
nation, who lately concluded a treaty of
peace and friendfhip with the United States.
Bon-fires were made, and every species of
ravage joy exhibited on the occalion ; by
which it would feeni that a universal pre
judice agamft us is taking place among the
Indian nations. 0
Several veflels are arrived in the River as
far as Reedy island and Marcus hook,
where they are detained by the ice.
i Aocounts from Frederickfburg inform
that Gen. Wilkinfon had been appointed
to the command of the second United
States regiment, at whose inflance a ser
geant and four men were sent to reconnoi
tre the icene of Gen. St. Clair's defeat.
The bodies were found naked and scalped.
Gen. Butler's corpse, however, could not
be found. No battle had taken place, as
lately reported by some idler, between
General Scott and the Indians.
A petition has been presented to the Le-
Vflature of Maflachufetts, by several per
ons, praying for the privilege of opening ;
'avigable canal from Connecticut river tc
:he waters surrounding the town of Bos
on.
On the 2 sth ult. arrived r.t Carlisle the
ix Indian chiefs, &c. lately departed from
-his city. On Sunday morning they fetfor
ivard again for their own country. It is
aid the presents they had with them
(mounted to upwards of nine thoufanti
lollars.
A report (fays the Pittsburgh Gazette oi
he 25th ult.) is in circulation that the in-
Kibitants of Gallipolis are in great dread oi
lie Indians attacking them, as they have
»egun to (leal their horses, and other pro
>erty. —On the 17th ult. all was well at
r'ort Franklin—a discovery had been made
yf the approach of a party of hostile Indi
ins to the Ohio, on this fide Whelen ; whc
were scouted out of the settlement.
The Quarter Mailer, Isaac Craig, al
Pittlburg is about contracting for a numbei
as large flats, known by the pame of Ken
tucky boats. From this it would seem
that government do not intend to take thf
route of Prefquile, on the next march o.
the troops againlt the hostile Indians.
Accounts are received in town fron
Fort Wafliington, which mention that ;
a sergeant and four men had lately beei
to the place where the bloody battle of th<
Tth of November last was fought, near th(
Miami villages, where they counted five
hundred and thirty-eight elead bodies.—
One piece of artillery only was to be seen
but the carriages of seven others remainet
on the ground : the guns, it was fuppofec
were either buried or thrown into the
water.
The party left Fort Jefferfon at dulk ir
the evening, arrived at the place about day
break, and staying only long enough tr
make the above obiervations, left the me
lancholy scene.
Colonel Wilkinfon, with a party of a•
t>out four hundred men, left Fort Wafli
ngton the 25th of January, with intent tc
;o to the place of action and bury the dead,
ind it was thought would visit the Miami
tillages before they returned.
Fort Jefferfon had a fufficient garrison.
md !ix months provision.
Pursuant to the report of the committee
as the House of Reprefeutatives on Mr
Churchman's memorial for ascertaining hi:
magnetic theory, by a voyage to Baffins bay.
at tile public espenfe, a Bill lias been order
ed to ba prepared and brought in for the
consideration of the Legislature. The re
port is, in general, favourable to Mr
Churchman : the only doubt with the com
inittee being, whether in the prrj'ent circum
Jiances of the United States, Jitc/i grant flial
low be made.
Revenue cutters have been talked of sot
:his expedition. Those who are acquaint
ed with the navigation northward of the
Banks of Newfoundland, even in the film-
Tier season, will hardly deem th'efe vessel
:apab!e of enduring the northern seas, 01
trijggling with those bodies of floating ice
which even in the mildest season of the yeai
ire continually drifting in and about Bas
ins bay.—A vessel for such an expedition
lught, at least, to have a spar deck, and te
5e fabricated, like the whalemen, of a folic
ted of timber. If Mr. Churchman's propofa
hould not be finally sanctioned by govern
nent, there is little doubt but the scheme
night be carried into effeCt, with a moder
ite additional expense, and as a fort of fe
ondary object, by a company of patriotic
nerchants in the Eastern states.
Extract from the Records of the Cuf"
om-Houfe of Norfolk (Virginia.)
u Amount of DUTIES on Goods.
Wares, and Merchandize, imported intc
e diftrift of Norfolk and Portfmotith.
Virginia, and on the Tonnage of Vessels
irriving within the said District, for the
?ear 1791.
Dls. Cts
Duties on Merchandize, 192,"00 82
Ditta on Tonnage, 16,819 02
Dollars 209,519 84
Value of sundries exported from the
Diftricl of Norfolk and Portsmouth,, with
n the year 179 1. DU. Cts.
1028,789 67 2-3"
[Should not a port of the above confe
rence be intitled to a branch of the nation
ill bank ; especially when it is considered
that, this is the great maritime port ol
v irginia, from whence it communicates
jy water to all the mercantile towns ol
-he State ; all of which depend on that
a great measure, for their supply
t>r vV eft India goods and bulky articles
:or their interior customers ? A Canal
is to be cut from the waters of North Car
?\ I] J" communicate with the port of
jSorfolk, which will, in addition to its pre
sent advantages, bring to its market at
least one fourth of the produce of the im
portant State of North-Carolina,—J
The census of the state of South-C'aroli
la is now completed, and is as follows
5 j.l76white males above sixteen— 37,721
.viiite males under fifteen—66,Bßo white
emales—l,Bol other free persons—l
laves—Total, 249,073.
Accounts from theealhvad mention, that
n the engagement near the Miami Town;
>n the 4th of Nov. last.no less than twelve
nindred white Canadians were intermin
'led with the Indians, and disguised like
hem. — This intelligence was conveyed in
1 letter from a gentleman residing at Que
>ec to his friend in Maflachufetts.
Letters from Boftonfay, the Marblehead
3ank fifhermen were at firft averse to sign
:he articles, and complying with the regu
lations prescribed in the fiftiery law—ef
"orts, however, were fiiccefsfully using to
:onvince the sailors that their true inter-
Mis would be promoted by an acquiescence
n the law.
ixtrafl of a letter from a Captain of a vef
lel in Port-au-Prince, dated Jan. 20, to
his owner in rhis city.
" I arrived here the Bth instant, having
Slopped at Port Dolphin and St. Marks, in
neither of which was there any encourage
ment, but this place exceeds all defcripti
sn, there are fix fail in port, loaded with
flour ; amongst them all, there has not
jeen more than jo barrels of flour fold in
four weeks : what to do I cannot tell ;
there is no pofiible way to get out from
iiere. Yesterday a Philadelphia schooner
ivas condemned for being caught trading
in one of the out bays.
I hourly expect to fee Captain Webb, in
:he Sophia, he was turned out of St Mark's
by the frigate ; one veflel arrived from
there just now in the fame situation. The
anly expectation I have is the arrival of the
:roops ; it they do not come, the confe
rence will be very serious to us. The
>nly way to spend time is, to step outside
the town and fee an engagement, which
ometimes closes with bringing in a mulat
oes head, {luck on a pole, and this after
loon they came in with seven wounded fol
liers and God knows how many they left
n the field, as that is kept a feci et,
The idea of going to the bye ports is o
rer, as there are so many cruisers in the
iay, fitted out by the aflembly; therefore
1 must remain here and share in the gene
■ai calamity with my neighbours, truftinc
:o the event of the troops being soon here.
The schooner Franklin arrived here yef
erday morning and petitioned to go away,
sut I expeftin vain."
Extr.?fl from the -votes and Proceedings of the Hot//
of Delegates of tbe Slate of Maryland, Novem
ber 1791.
" Mr. Mercer brings in and delivers the sol
owing letter, to the honorable John Henry ant
Charles Carroll, of Carrollton, Esq.
To the Hon. JOHN HENRY and CHARLE!
CARROLL, of Carrollton, Eiqrs. Reprefenta.
ti yes of the state of Maryland in the Senate o
the United States.
Gentlemen,
IN the journal of the proceedings of the Se
the United States., transmitted to us b'
authority; a proposition, that the doors of tha
honorable body should be open whilst fitting ir
:heir legislative capacity, appears to have beer
made and rejected. The rcafons, however co.
ient, which led to a determination so opposite t(
the already declared sense of a considerable pro
portion of the confederacy, remain suppressed ir
that secrecy which this vote seems defined t<
perpetuate. Left (ilent acquiescence may be im
properly cenftrued into implied approbation, anc
as luch tend to weaken the efforts of other states
*e do not hesitate to declare our sense against thi.'
letermination of that honorable body.
The legislative deliberations of these states
both under their colonial and national eftablift
"nents, have been generally, if not univerfalU
>pen : They derived the practice from that coun
ry whence they emigrated, and habit and pre
udice are now strongly in favor of a custom hi
herto uninterrupted. Innovations, which an
it variance with long and approved usage, ough
:o be supported by fubftan-ial considerations
lone such have been suggested ; none such, wi
ronlefs, occur to our own reflection, nor can wi
jifefrn any reason why the motives of general anc
public acts ihould remain buried in silence an<
secrecy.
In free governments the authority and famSior
if the laws in a great measure depend on the in
luence of opinion ; the public rr.ind, therefore
annot be too thoioughly poflefied of the reason;
vhich influenced their adoption ; and if the mo
ives of mealures fairly exposed %and general!*
:onimunicated, will not secure them public ap.
irobation, they generally furnilh conclusive ar
rument against their continuance. Mystery i<
ha garb of tyranny, whilst free government
r ounded on reason, derives new strength fron
:very enquiry.
On the formation of the federal constitution,:
,-reat proportion ot America viewed, with ajealou:
;ye, the union of legislative and executive pow.
:rs in the Senate of the United States ; the de-
Llarations of rights of the several states had bornt
united teltimony agair.ft this combination ; and
«hen the immense patronage, both in the foreign
and home departments, attached to that body, i<
contemplated, it may create suspicion left gene
ral laws may be calculated with reference tc
rhofeperfons who are to discharge their duties.
Solicitation and canvass for office may pollibly in
troduce a spirit of negociation unfriendly to that
disinterested condufl so indispensable to equal le
giiluiion, Ws know of no coneflor of this effect
of the conflitutlon of the bodv so powerful as tht
admillion of the public eye. Characters will al
ways be there found both ready and capable to de
fed and exppfe im| r per motives, if any such
mould ever arise, and the press, that modern cen
sor of public morals, would then permiffively con
vey information to their constituents, which the
dignity and security of the body cannot allow,
whilll their debates, secluded from public inspec
tion, admit of no impartial teftimonyi
The duration of the time for which they are
eleded, and the diffeient periods at which their
offices expire, render that body in effed perma
nent. They admit no conttitutional mode by
which an entire change could be effeded, should
ever corruption pervade the mass or taint their
proceedings, and they afford but few opportunities
of withdrawing confidence oncc improperly repo
sed in individual n embers. These combined con
federations also furnifli additional and powerful
motives tot admitting their constituents to a know
ledge of their deliberations, and to a minute in
fpedion qf their encral and individual condud,
and we hold it no found argument that the
admillion cquld extend only to the inhabitants of
the leat of their deliberations. When the curtain
is withdrawn, any audience will command refped;
from thofc who ad on the theatre of public life,
and sentiments, that would be avowed under the
veil of privacy, would then (brink from inspec
tion.
But we team from experience, that the calls of
public and private bulinefs constantly draw well
informed citizens from all parts of the union to
the feat of government; these continually going
and returning, would difl'eminate the principles of
their deliberations $ but above all, the press already
conveys a general history of the debates of the re
presentative branch of government, which, if not
accurate, may at all times be corredtd by the
publications of members misrepresented, and fur
nifhes all parts of the confederacy with an ample
idea of the capacity and conduct of their immedi
ate representatives. The fame effeds may be rea
sonably expeded from the publication of the de
bates of that body ; and although they might be
protraded to a greater length, of which we doubt*
as the vanity of appearing conspicuous will not
probably operate so strongly on men of riper years,
and as the order enforced by infpedion would ex
clude lengthy conversations j Yet, as thisbranch
are obliged to continue in fefiion during the whole
time occupied by the deliberations of the other, it
is reafonuble to conclude, that the greater number
of that body, and «)nfequent|y of persons who en
gage in debate, will consume more time than could
be compensated by the greater variety of senato
rial duties, if such do exist.
But whatever may have been the original poli
cy or impolicy of the measure, it has how afTumed
a more serious afped. The refufal of that honor
able body tocomply with the urgent defiies of so
relpedable a proportion of their constituents, un
opposed by the decJared approbation of their con
dud by any part of the union, can hardly, we
think, be juftified by any refinement of theory.
If the negled to open their doors created a jea
lousy, which has hitherto worn the face of remon
strance, or discovered itfelf in inftrudioris re
quiring that their legislative deliberations should
be public, their absolute refufal tocomply, seems
calculated to inspire suspicion : confidence leaves
the bosom that suspicion once enters, and rarely
returns. We, your immediate conftltuents, fatis
fied that this free communication of our senti
ments will produce the desired effed, afiure youj
that we deem a compliance with the wishes ex
prefled from the various parts of the union, that
their doors fliould be open whilst fitting in their
legifiative capacity, as essential to the preservation
of that entire confidence which the whole union
ought to repose in that honorable body.
By order, W. HARWOOD, Clk.
Which was read, and the question put, That
the house agree thereto ? The yeas and nays be,
ing called for by Mr. Chefley, appeared as follows
yjjfirwati've—Meflieurs Thomas, Hopewell,Co
megvs, N. Worthington, Mercer, Wilkinfon,
Chefley, Craik, Chapman, Ridgley, of Wm.
Gough, CockeyjWaggaman, Denwood, Lecompte,
Frazier, Ecclefton, Miller, R. Bond, Hollingf
worth, Oldham, T. Marshall, Clark, T. Gantt,
Quynn, Seney, Wright, O'Bryon, Barnes, Den
nis, Holland, J. P. Martfiall, Beatty, Burkhart,
Prall, Wilson, Douglafs, Loockerman, Whiteley,
Ott, Swearing en, Onealt, Deakins, Crdap, Tom
linfon, Jacob.
Negative—Meflieurs Duvall, Key.
So it was resolved in the affirmative, and sent to
the senate by the clerk."
[ We are informed that the Senate disagreed
to the above letter, but concurred in the objed*
and paiTed a resolution to that efted, which
was afterwards acceded to by the House of Dele
gates.]
PRICE or STOCKS.
Six per cents, per £. - 24/8. 24/9.
Three per cents, - » 1 4/5*
Deferred fix per cents, - 1 *
Final Settlements - 23/".
Indents, ... 14J1,
Bank Stock 1.2 Shares 106 per cent advance
Meteorological Observations.
February, 1792.
D. H Bar. Ther. Wind. IVeath.
Monday, 27. 7 29. 5 33 W. Cloudy.
2 _ 2 ?' 5 35 do. do.
Tuesday, 28. 7 30. 5 22 N.W. Fair.
2 3°. 8 40 <k>. do.
Wednesday, 29. 7 30. 9 21 N. Fa r.
2 3° 25 45 S.W. do.
ThuiJday, 7 30. 15 27 s .s w. Fair.
March 1- 2 30. 15 50 do.- do.
Friday, 2. 7 29. 7 40 S~ Cloudy.
2 2 9- 65 45 S.W. Rain.
Saturday, 3. - 29. 7 36 S.W.
2 29- 7 50 do. do'.
Sunday, 4, 7 29. 9 36 N.W. FatrT
2 2 9- 9 46 do. i lovdy.The following elegant stanzas have several time:
appeared in print. Perhaps it is not universal
ly known, that they were written (originally in
the Spansfh language) by Michael Saa-yedra
Cervantes, the inimitable author of DonQujxote.
They are supposed to be addrefied by a young
Lady to a Duenna, a fort of peculiar chara&ei
in Spain, at ooce the watchful guardian, and
governess, of young 1 adies of family and condi-
M OTHER, with watchful eye you strive,
My freedom to reft rain j
But know, unless I guard myielf,
Your guard will be but vain.
It has been said, and reason's voice
Confirms the ancient lay,
That ftri& confinement's rigid hand,
Enflames the wifli to stray.
Love, once opposed, will soon increase,
And strength superior gain,
'Twere better far, believe my voice,
To give my will the rein—
For if 1 do not guard myfelf,
Your guard will be but vain.
For her who will not guard herfelf,
No other guard you'll find j
Cunning and fear will weak be found
To chain the a&ive mind.
Tho' death hirnfelf fliould bar my way,
His menace I'd disdain—
Then learn, that 'till I guard myfelf,
Your guard will be but vain.
The raptur'd heart, which once has felt
A sense of love's delight,
Flies like the morn's impetuous wing,
To find the taper's light.
A thousand guards, a thousand cares,
Will ne'er the will restrain—
For if I do not guard myfelf,
All other guards are vain.
Such is the all-controuling force,
Of Love's resistless storm,
It gives to beauty's faireft fliape,
The dire Chimera's form.
To wax, the melting breast it turns,
Flames o'er the cheek are spread,
"With hands of wool Hie opes the door,
Unfelt the footfleps tread.
Then try no more with fruitlefs care
My wiflics to restrain,
For if I do not guard myfelf,
Your guard will be but vain.
On the Uncertainty of Natural Science.
VTranjlated from a work juj} publijhed at Parts*]
IT is easy to perceive that the greater part of the
laws which mankind have thought fit to im
pose upon Nature, originate either in weakness or
in pride. I will irfftance some of those which we
hold indisputable. The Sun, as we are apt to
suppose, must be the great center of the planets'
motions, because, in refped to ourselves, we find
it neceflary to be in the center of our affairs, to
have an equal eye of care upon them all. But if,
in the orbits of the celestial worlds, the center na
turally appertains to the most conhderable bodies,
how happens it that both Saturn and Jupiter,
each of which are incomparably greater than the
globe of the earth, fliould be at the extremity of
our system ?
As the shortest road is that which fatigues us
the least, we are too apt to conclude that the
cafe is the fame with Nature. Thus, to spare the
fun the trouble of tiavelling ninety millions of
leagues every twenty-four hours, in order to give
us light, we suppose the earth to turn on its own
axis. Thispofiibly may be the cale. But if the
earth revolves on iti, own axis, there ought to be
a very great drff'Jience in the spaces passed over by
two cannon balls discharged at the fame instant,
the one in an eastern the other in a western direc
tion 5 the firft proceeding wlib the earth's mo
tion, the other thereto. While
both balls are iulpended in the air and receding
from each other at the rare of fix thousand fa
thoms in a minute, the earth, during the fame in
terval of a minute, ailiflsthe firft and retards the
second ; turning so fwiftly as to move in that
time sixteen thcufand fathom?, which ought to
bring the spot from whence they took their de
parture twenty-two thousand fathoms distant lor
the ball shot weftwaro, a >d ten thousand fathoms
(the fame way) for that Ihot eaftwara.
I propoled this objection to an able astronomer,
who seemed ar.gry at my asking the question. He
aniwered me at last, like other learned doctors,
that this objection had been made and refuted a
thousand times.—Upon my begging him, howe
ver, to take pity of my ignorance, and to give me
some fort of solution j he instanced a ball let drop
from a {hip's topmast while under full fail, which
yet, notwithstanding her fwift motion, alwa\s
falls at the foot of the mast—" The earth (said
he) in exactly the fame manner, involves in
its rotatory motion, the two bullets. If they were
discharged perpendicularly, they would fail pre
cisely in the fame spot from whence they set out."
As afiertions cost nothing, and are generally used
to cut the gordian knot of real difficulty, he add
ed, that, the motion of the larger body absorbs that
*f the smaller.
But if this be true, answered I, the ball falling
from the fliip's topmast ought not to fall at the foot
of the mast ; its progrefiive motion ought to be
absorbed, not in that of the veflel, but in the mo
tion of the earth, an immensely larger body—ln
this cafe the ball oupht only to obey the impuife
of gravitation; and for the fame rcafon, in the
former cafe, if the earth really moves upon its
axis, it ought to absorb the motion of the bullet
which goes with it eastward, and so much recard
the other as to return into the cannon's mouth
from whence it was discharged.
I am inclined to have my doubts upon systems,
experiments, and even wnat are called axioms, oi
evidept truths. Gtr planetary system, as now re
ceived, is a pretty thing enough ; but it has beer
contrived in human weakness rather than in wif
dom. The diurnal rotation of the earth does in
deed save the fun an immense distance in travel
ling : 1 do not believe, however, that the system
mankind have devised is the real system of Nature;
nor can I think that (he has revealed herfublimeft
secrets to that aninaal called man, who does not
even clearly comprehend the principle upon which
he moves his fingers.
I will declare my opinion, that I think it high
ly probable that the Sun has a real diurnal mo
tion around our eaith. An observation of certain
British astronomers at Greenwich, ados great force
to my opinion. They discovered, that a fixed star
in the confteilation of the Bull had a declination
of two minutes every twenty-four hours. This
star was not of the nebulous kind nor bearded, and
therefore could not be supposed a comet. The
Britifli astronomers communicated their observa
tions on this star to those at Paris, who found
them exa&; and M. MefTier made a report on this
fubjeft to the academy of sciences ac the firft time
of their alTembling. [See Courier de I'Europe
for May 4, 1781.]
If, therefore, the fixed stars are funs, here is a
fun that moves, and its motion is an argument of
no little strength that our's does the fame !
The total immobility of the earth may 1 also be
argued from hence, that the fixed stars never
change their apparent distances from each other
in refpelt to us, which would certainly be the
cafe, and sensibly too, if we travelled in the
course of a year, as has been said, an otbit or cir
cle of sixty four millions of leagues in diameter,
through the regions of space. In such an im
mense journey, we should beyond all doubt sensi
bly approach some, and recede from Others of them.
Sixty-four millions of leagues (fay the modern
philosophers) is but a point in the immensity of
the heavens in comparifonto the distances between
us and the ltars—J doubt it much. The fun,
which is a million of times larger than the earth,
has only an apparent-diameter of half a foot at the
distance of thirty-two millions of leagues from us.
If this distance reduces a body of such immense
magnitude to lo small a diameter, it cannot be
doubted that sixty-sour millions of leagues, in ad
dition to the former, would reduce it to the appa
rent size of a star j and it is more than probable
that if we were removed sixty-sour millions of
leagues still farther off, the fun would disappear
entirely. How comes it then, that if the tarth
approaches and recedes this distance alternately
to and from the fixed stars, in making her annual
revolution, that not a single star js magnified or
diminished in refpeft to ourlelves ?
I will here produce some other observations,
tending to prove that even the fixed stars have
certain motions peculiar to themselves. Tiie an
cient astronomers obfrrved in the neck of the
Whale, a star which had great variety of appear
ance. Sometimes it would appear for three
months together j sometimes for a longer term.
One time it would appear great, and at another
time small, without any regularity as to the inter
nals of apppearance. The fame astronomers re
ate, that they also discovered a new star in the
heart of the Swan, which frequently disappeared
and leappeared.—ln the year 1600, it was equal in
size to a star of the firft magnitude j it diminished
by degrees, and at last became invisible. M. Caf
fini again g®t fighc of it in 1655. For five years
t conftantJy incrtaled in size ana splendour j again
t diminilhed, and by degrees became invisible. In
1670 a new itar showed itfelf near the head of the
nvan. It was observed by several firft rate aftrono.
ners. It disappeared, but was seen again in 1672.
iincej that it has never appeared except in 1709
ind 1713, when it again became totally invisible.
fhefe instances demonstrate that the fixed stars
io not only move, but that they describe curves
rery diffeient from the elliptical and plain circles,
vhich we have hitherto aifigned to the celestial
>odies. lam persuaded that there is as great a
rariety in the motions of the stars, as there is
imong the various bodies on the furface of this
rarth j and that there are stars which describe cy
loides, Ipirals, and perhaps other curves of which
we have no idea.
I will not eniarge on this fubjeft, left I should
?e censured for pretending to know more of the
ifFairs of the starry regions, than of our own on
the earth. I havr only exprefted my doubts and
my ignorance. If the stars are funs, then there
ire luns that have ittotion, and why may not our
dwp fun move as well as the reft of them ?
The max>m hitherto received by philosophers,
that Nature in her operations takes the fhortefi me
thod to effett her purposes, has impregnated all our
systems of natural philosophy more or less with er
ror and falle opinions. In this refpe& f even com
mon experience is against them. Nature has or
iered rivers almost constantly to take a serpentine
:ourfe, and not a diredt line. The veins in the
human body have incredible circumvolutions, and
several bones in the fame body seem to have been
perforated on purpose, that some of the principal
veins might pals into the flefhy parts of the limbs,
without being exposed to injuries from external
(hocks. In fine, Nature raises a mushroom in a
Tingle night, and hardly matures an oak in a whole
century. She rarely takes the shortest method tc
accomplish her designs, but always takes thai
which is the most proper.
Gen. Jackson's Speech in the Houje of Repre
sentatives, on Monday the zjth ult. relative tt
the Georgia Contejied EhElicn•
Mr. Speakei,
NEITHER governed by party, nor affe&ec
by resentment, but actuated, if I know
mylelf, by the purest motives for the good of mv
country, I have appeared at your bar on the mod
impoitant occasion of my life—important to my
felf, because I have made certain allegation!
which as a public man it is incumbent on me ic
prove, and more important to my country, because
if those allegations be founded, the privileges oJ
my fellow citizens have not only been grossly and
wantonly abused, but are materially intereftcd in
the event.
It has been with much hesitation and difficulty
that 1 brought myfelf to a determination of pro
cedure—the refpe&ability of your honorable
House, and the severity the author of an unfound
ed or frivolous petition on so important a subject
should ever meet with from you—the favor and
mention which the fitting members will always ft
Experience—the time, the expence of" prufecution, tl
and my own inability to conduct so great an un si
dertaking, all presented themselves before me— p
and added to theie forcible reasons indeed—the 3
recolle&ion of the loss of a member on this floor v
by the census of the United States to the lepre- p
fentation of Georgia, made no small impreflion on It
mv mind. On the other hand, the tales which 1 a
iailv heard, and the letters which 1 continually si
•eceived, giving me accounts of tranladtions at n
:hat eledtion which lead to mor- than Britiih f
rorruption—the confederation of this early period a
>f our government, the danger of corruption to
iny state, and the fear of so foul a practice be- t
:oming so early a precedent, prevented my being g
1 lent—l was induced to believe that silence on t
such an occasion would be more than common f
:reafon—treafon of the most nefarious kind, and t
)f the blackest dye---treafon against the majeftv t
>f the people and their most sacred rights, the n
jeedom of election 1 considered that if I were g
silent, ] fliould not deserve the greater honor upon g
rarth, the appellation of ari American .itizen. c
ImprefTed with these sentiments, I fct out from r
Seorgia in a most dangerous and inclement sea- n
Ton, exposed to a rude and boisterous element, 1;
ind have arrived here at the risque of my lire, to d
make good what 1 have alledged. t!
In reply to the argument of the fitting member i
r or a delay, that it would take ten days to go to p
Camien, and ten days to return to Savannah, si
:xclufive of time to take evidence in—l aik, o
why the gentleman did not consider this at the a
time of forming the resolutions ? He had every
advantage of me---He was prefeot on this floor I
and had the privilege of objecting to every part of t
:hem, particularly as to time, and no doubt if t
be had objedted the House would have indulged
bim in extending it : his silence on that fubjedt r
must induce this House to believe that he thought J<
he time fufficent. The evidence to be taken un- a
ler those resolutions was to be confined to tefti- si
nony taken after the 26th day of December, and d
wenty-five days previous to the day of trial ; so t
:hat there were but fixteei. or seventeen days to
;ake evidence in. But, fir, in the speech of the (
gentleman on that occasion, and which 1 have f
ffien in the public prints, does he hot charge me t
with delay, and thereby prove himfelf to be pre
pared ? Does he not urge me to come forward, a
ind thereby prove himfelf to be ready ? Nay, fir, p
ioes he not go farther, and charge me with the t
vant of evidence, and the flaying behind to in
iuence the grand juries and the legislature of i ;
Georgia ? The latter part of this charge can on- b
y injure the gentleman himfelf; 1 venture to d
ilfert that the grand juries and the legislature of I
Georgia are as far superior to the gentleman's in- t
inuations, as the purity of their proceedings ]
las been to the corruptions of the late election. 1
If my petition for postponement be made a e
{found, I anfvver that it was founded on an accord j
in addition of twenty days was allowed by a cun- j
fern of parties, entered into between the gentle- -
nan's attornies and myfelf in Georgia, and for
ne very reason that farther delays fliould not be
nade, and it ought not to be considered on par
ia! grounds.
The gentleman has mentioned something of .
irocuring evidence as to other eledtions ; if this {
>e the reason for delay, and to deprive me from a 1
eat, he is much mistaken in my condudt—l am j
dtuated by higher motives than those of restless {
mbition or interested views j it is not the feat, but j
he restoration of the people's rights which 1 con- j
end for ; let us both go home—let the people's
'oice be known---let their choice be fairly made
ly a pure eledtion, and if it falls on the fitting
nember, I shall be content.
1 wish nor to make this question of more con- 1
"equence than it really is, or to injure the moral
:haradter of any man j I value reputation too
ligh, and have had too many attempts to stab
ny own to wish to injure the reputation of others ;
nit I am compelled to declare that the liberties
ind privileges of the citizens of America have
seen greatly abused by the eledtion of the fitting
nember. There are official papers now in the t
lands of a representative of Georgia, whereby
hat state declares that the fitting member has not .
:he voice of the people j shall the state of Geor
gia be represented by a member which she has 1
jeclared not to be her representative ? Shall thej ]
Jnited States, to extend the idea, and to i'uppofe]
lim a representative for the union generally, be 1
•eprefented by a member said to be illegally eledt- 1
'd ? Suppose an even vote on this floor, or that
he decision should be given to a law orrefolution ;
>f this House by the vote of the fitting member,
.vould not the citizens have room to doubt its pro
jriety if not its validity ? On every principle, or. ;
;very view, no farther delay should take place j
Se publications in GeorgVa, so far from being a
iifadvantage, were an advantage to the gentle
man $ they shewed him the ground 1 meant t»<
:ake ; they placed him on his guard, and he
might have collected counter proofs. The flat*
of Georgia is greatly interested, and waits youi
decision with anxious expectation j a delay ot
trial will be considered by her as an evasion of
justice, and the firft (tep to a denial of justice u
a delay ; and I. hope 1 lhall be pardoned the ob
fervation when 1 fay, that I shall conceive a post
ponement, so as to Jose this fefiion, to be an eva
sion of the object altogether, and a rejedtion of
my petition. It was said in Georgia, that it was
impoflible to procure a decision on this point. 1
am come here at great expence, and hope the
conduit of this House will give a falfity to the
report ; should however, the object be now de
feated, I beg this House to consider the conse
quences. However barefaced the corruption, or
however great the violation of the rights of elec
tion, will any citizen with such a warning as the
precedent will exhibit, attempt a precarious pro
secution of the people's righrs---the confequencei
must be that corruption will be exalted, and the
streams of legislation be polluted with impunity.
If permitted to proceed, I am prepared to shew
that the present instance of corruption is unexam
pled in America, and is scarcely equalled in an
cient or modern annals.'*
To this General Wayne replied : When the
suite of resolutions on the petition of Gen. Jack
son, were under consideration in the Houle, he
took no part in the debate, but withdrew him
felf---a fa<s well known tomoft of the member's ;
therefore did not interfere as to the time allowed
for taking testimony. Eat it is in proof that the
post was from the 29th of November, until the
31ft of December, going from this place to Sa
vannah : allow an equal time to come from that
place to this, in addition to the twenty days pro
longation solicited on the part of the petitioner,
and agreed to by General Wayne's attornies;
from the iyrh of January, fay fifty-two days, ic
muli appear evident that there has not been time
fufficient for the testimony taken under that
agreement to arrive by post at this place.
This prolonging of the time was artfully ob
tained by the petitioner, who as soon as he had
gained his point, immediately took the deposi
tion of three evidences, which he has brought
forward, well knowing that in order to obtain
testimony on the part of the fitting member on
theelettion of the county of Camden, his attor
nies had to fend near two hundred miles, the
greater part by water, through a long and dan
gerous found, in which they may be retarded by
contrary winds and tides. The inhabitants gene
rally lived on Cumberland island, and at th?
mouth of St. Mary's River, on the borders of
East-Florida : the diltance would require twenty
days to go from and return to Savannah, and
thirty-two days from thence to Philadelphia, even
if no accident took place j but the difficulty of
palling the Savannah and other rivers in this
feaion frequently retarded the post (who rides but
once a week) for many days between Savannah
knd Charleston.
The gentleman talk? of unheard-of corruption.
\ trull that gentleman will not dare to insinuate
that I had any knowledge of it, should any have
taken place.
The gentleman fays that be has seen a speech
made in this House, in which exceptions are ta
ken against 0.-rain publications in the newspapers?
and observes, that these were of advantage to the
fitting member. Mr. Speaker, there were affi
davits in those publications procured in a manner
:hat would have disgraced a New -Gate Solicit. / .
The gentleman alio laments the disadvantage t >
Georgia in not being properly represented, and
Tpeaks much of his public virtue and love of coun
try.
Mr. Speaker, I believe that I may venture to
aflert, that 1 have given the most convincing
proofs to the world of my love of country, and
:hat the public have not loft by the change.'*
Mi. Jackson—— Whether the gentleman is or
s not guilty of corruption at th? ele&ion, is
ieft known to his own conscience ; but 1 dare to
lo my duty, and as long as 1 am a public man,
[ will continue to do it, notwithstanding J may
neet with stern looks and menacing expreiTions —
If improper affidavits have been made, it has not
>een my fault ; but fir, many of them are regard
id as being of the chastest nature.
[The deciHon is put off till the second Monday in
TVLarr.b* J
TEN POUNDS REWARD.
RAN away, a Negro lad about feventeeri
years old. who left the fubferiber
bmetime in August lait. He goes by the
lame of Leven ; is of a yellowish colour,
md about five feet high. He is supposed
:o have gone to the Delaware state. Any
>erfon bringing the said negro to the fub
criber, shall be entitled to the above re
gard ; and any person giv ! ng such infor
nation as will enable the owner to reco
ver him again, shall be entitled to one half
;he above sum, which will be paid by
Thomas Miles.
Feb, 14, 1792. St. 1 aw.
TWENTY DOLLARS REWARD.
RAN away in August 1790 from the fub
feriber, living in Queen Ann's coun
y, eastern shore of Maryland, a country
>orn Negro woman, called GRACE. She
s about middle aged, very low of stature,
•ound face, remarkable small feet, for a
legro, and has loft several of her fo'~e-teeth.
The lapse of time fmce she has abfeonded
•enders it unneceflary to describe her
:loathing. She is artful and talkative, and
t make no doubt has palled for a free wo
nan, and got into Pennsylvania or Dela
ware states. The above reward (hall be
3aid to any person securing said negro, and
iving information thereof to her master,
md reasonable charges if brought home.
EDWARD HARRIS.
Feb. 23- Bvv iaw.
This Day are publijhcd,
SERMONS,
Historical and Chara&eriftical :
By WILLIAM LINN, D. D.
One ef the Minijlers of the Reformed Prctejlant
Dutch Church, in the city of New-York.
Sold by T. DOBSON, R. CAMPBELL, &
M. CAREY.
[Price Three Quarters of a Dollar."]
A few Copies of the REPORT of
the Secretary of the Treasury, of the
6th infi. on the PUBLIC DEBT,
may be had at this Office.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS AND SWAINF,
AT THEIR OFFICE, NO. 239, HIGH-STREET*
NEAR SIXTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA*