Vol. I.
AUTHENTIC. i
RETURN of the whole Number o/Tersons within the fever dl Di ft rifts
if the United States, according to " An Ad providing for the
enumeration of the Inhabitants of the United States
[Concluded.)
KENTU C K Y.
COUNTIES.
NORTH - CAROLINA.
Chowan . * 61 -> 559. 1182 4 1 2 5 88 j 5Q' 1
Perquimons . * 8 8j 9 2 3 1 7 1 7 37 1 ' s'i / i J
Palo uotauk . . 95 1 1034 iß'o 7°i 1f)2 3 54971
Camden . - 75 8 1480 1038 4033
Currituck. . • 1024 i960 115) lio 3 5 21 9
Gates . . 79° 775 9'J 221 9 539 2
Hertford . r 81.; 823 1533 Sib; 2442 5» 2 »
Bertie , . J 7 6 l8 4 J 35*4 34"; 5 1Ai 1260(5
Tyrrel . . . 807 959 *777 ' 35! »*66 4744
Ctavan * . • 1709 i 53 8 3 22 7 337! 3658 10469
'ones . . 73 b 794 i 54» 7°. 4^ 22
John don . * J °39 11 '9 2 ° 8 3 6 4! 13 2 9 5^34
bobbs . . 1162 1293 2 47 8 45 1 9 , 5 fcß 93
Wayne . - - io fi 4 12 '9 =256 37, 155 7 6133
Pitt . . . *461 >507 *9*5 2 5| 2 |67 82^5
Beaufort . . 95* 9 z6 l8 M l2 y, i&3 2 54 6 *
jri yac - . . 795 7 ,S *s** ir/i i 4-43 41*0
Cartirett . . 7» 8 7©7 9 2 | 373 2
Xewhanover , . 834 695 1497 6?; 3738 6831
Brunfwick . - 3 80 39 8 779 3' *5"l 3°7i
Bladen . . 837 830 1683 58, 1676. 5084
.Duplin . . 1035 1187 2054 3 5«6 2
On How . . 828 939 1788 84, 1748, 5387
Cumberland . < »79 l *557 8 3 2181 8671
Moore . . 849 968 1570 12 371) 3770
Richmond . . 1096 1205 2116 55j 5 8 3; 5055
Robefon . . • H3 1 Jl 4i 2244 277 533; 5326
Samson . • *M 5 i* B * 2316: 140 1183 6065
Anfon . . . 1034 11 83 2047, 4 1 828, 5133
Halifax . . . 1835 »778 3403 4 4 3 6505, 13965
Northamton . . . 1334 >273 2 5°3! 4 t>2 440g 9981
Warren . . 1070 1319 2220 63 47-0 9397
Franklin . . • 1089 1400 2316 37 271 7 j 75.^5
Nafh . . 1143 M 26 2627 188 2909 739 J
Edgecomb, . . 1659 l8 79 3495 7° 3 1 5*0*55
Martin . • • 1064 1009 2022 96 1889: 608;
Orange . • 2433 2709 4913 101 2060 122 i(
Granville . , i,sßi 1873 3050 3151 4*63! l °9 B
Col well . . 1801 2110 3377 72 2736 j loogf
Wake . . • 1772 2089 3688 180 2463 1019;
Chatham . . . 1756 2160 3664 9 163.-. 9221
Randolph . . 1582 1952 3266 21; 452 727'
Rowan . . . 3288 3837 6864 97, 1742 1582!
Mecklenburg . . 2378 2573 4771 70 1603 1139;
Iredell . • • »'8 1217 22 39 3' 8 5 8 543;
Montgomery . . 967 1121 1798 5 834 4721
Guilford ' . 1607 1 799 3 2 4 2 "7 5 16 7 ! 9>
Rockingham . . 1173 1413 2 4qi 10 noo 618;
Surry . . . 153 1 V 62 3 18 3 *7 e 9 B ! 7 1 9'
Stokes . . 1846 2104 3778 13 787; 852!
Burke . . • 1716 2111 3685 11 595' 811S
Wilks . . . 1614 2252 3726j 2 549 814;
Rutherford . . . 1584 2145 34631 2 614 780 c
Lincoln . . . 20581 2294 3937'j j 9351 9 a2 <
Total . . . 69988: 77506.i407i0 : 4975:100571 393751
GEORGIA.
Camden . . . 81 44 96 14 70 30;
Glyn .... 70 36 87 5 215 412
Liberty . . 426 264 613 27 4035 535 c
Chatham . . . 846 480 1130 112 8201 1076 c
Effingham . . . 627 711 750 2424
Richmond . . . 1925 3343 39 4116 11317
Burke . . . 1808 1841 3415' 11 2392 9467
Washington . . . 947 1024 1885 2 694 4552
Wilks . . . 5152 6740 12160 180 7268 3150 c
Franklin . . . 225 243 417 156 1041
Greene . . . 1027 1111 1882 8 1377 5405
Tdtal. . . 13103 14044 25739 398 29264 82548
THURSDAY, January 19, 179 2
— I 1 I ' . .
>o Co 4- 5-a
S. S "-* *» *» 5 si.
fc. a ~ » *? £~ sL
* s* §"£ s
k. a >§ |
8 sl 1^
'->- 8. 2 ~j- e- r <«
<3. I ..-■ • w 5 <3-.
O SL »■ s ~•„
? s'a, 1 a. J
L & 2
Q"> ci|
1 5 1 54 l 1 7°57 28922) 114! »«43°l 73^77.
By PHILIP FR ENE AU.
y hedule of the whole number ofperfons in tin
territory of the United States, JoutL oj
ike river Ohio.
I
COUNTItS
''VojkiiigfHt 009 179 2 2 5 2 4| " 535 5 8 "
SuUivea 3c6 1 9.95i , °7 *9? 4441
Greene 19-, 2 374 3J 8 °; 4<? 454 77 +
tiawkh 11 104 >97° 2 9 2r ! 6S 807 5 71
: X-af 681 loSl 1627:60 ,6 3j 36'!
;w/« 65c, 8551 '^ s^: > g i 6 5 r j 345'
Sumner 404! 58?! 854- £ | 34* I,H
.ir.n jce I 235) jS> | 5 4 2 | '54 '3®
Total J271 j6i')4'7 35®9
OR the NATIONAL GAZE 1 IE
' \r.tinuahon of the Memorial upon the bej.
means of improving the Commerce atu
ivlan ujaclnrts oj the United States,
MJT the inventing of machines anc
iftrumcnts is only a Imall part of th<
leans necessary to facilitate the pro
.'els of manufactures. The manutac
.■ jre of linen in particular might be in
r.edibly advanced by a careful invefti
1 (tion of the best method for cultivat
r, g flax and hemp and knowing how t<
vvSiten the thread without injuring it:
c- .ulity in point of flrength and pli
artcy.
Good weavers arc a great object ir
;isery manufacturing country, butfcarce
ly ever meet with the encouragemen
rvßceiiary to T.— r —'-
their work in the o- L manner. Ihi
tends to diminish the number of abl<
workmen and introduces an inferiOi
furt ; a defe& in the manufacturing ceco
nomy that it is the bufmefs of-tiie Legii
lature of every manufacturing country
to remedy, if the endeavours of patriotic
citizens should be found infuEcient.
In respect to commerce, it is eviden
that it embraces and includes the prof
perity of every country, and, in fomt
way or other, interefls every citizcn, b<
his actual occupation what it may. 1h(
ailbciated companies I have mentioned
in the foregoing part of this efTay,pay.<
iLrift attention to domestic as well a:
foreign commerce ; Iheir ammadverfi
ins on this l'ubjetl are eminently ufeful
md obviate many intricate difcuflion
.vhich the mere merchant would other
,vise be inevitably engaged in, to th<
>reat prejudice of his immediate callin;
ind concerns. Ihe business of a mer
:hant is too complicated as well as toi
ntere fling to the world in general, tha
men of this description should have an;
ihing else to divert their attention.
What would be inconvenient an<
difficult to them, however, is easy t(
the fcientific bodies I have mentioned
who (ludy the theory of things, anc
consider it as a part of their duty to pub
lifh to the nation and to the world
whatever can be of public service, o
can facilitate the various operations o
induflry—and in this view also they an
of the greatest direst utility to maritimi
commerce, which again includes the ad
vantage of interior commerce.
It is not uncommon in France for ar
tifls profeffing the fame trade., to uniti
•tnd establish a manufacturing body
And some very considerable (ocieties, 01
rhis plan, have arrived to permancn
[lability in a very short time.
The unparalleled success of the afTo
:iation in Brittany was thecaufe of ma
ny other societies being soon after form
:d in different parts of France.
In July, 1760, the King granted let
ters patent to a company of Gentlemcr
in Lorraine, whose object was." to mak(
such researches as should tend to the
general benefit of the public.'
It were to be vilhed that among al.
o' 1 I M i
to c } -5 ' * , * .-i !
•- ? | rljsi 5?-;
? a i
.• V. s Ei.cS
•; ~ b £■ sr
s v "
- S' 1 '
b- M *>
Numb. 24.
;Ke (Economical societies that have been
"et on foot, there was only one that
would take the pains to collett and
place in a (Inking point of view such
new and interelting discoveries and
ideas as lay scattered up and down in
the various books that are every day pub
tifhed in different nations, especially in
those which treat upon manufactures
and commerce. All new discoveries in
every branch of fcicnce cannot be de
iailed with too much exa&nefs. From
such helps we should at all times be en
abled to trace the outset, progress and
probable future advancement of every
art. How much useless labour might
be prevented by such a work, and how
much time saved, that for want of this,
isoftenfpentto no purpose. It is not
jften that men of inventive faculties
commit an account of their discoveries
0 writing, principally from a want of
he necessary assistance to put their ideas
in a proper dress, which assistance such
1 society as thatlaft mentioned is always
ready to afford them, and, indeed, are
bound to consider as the principal ob
icft of their eftabliihment.
Such exatt descriptions of the various
:ffays of art, would tend greatly to ac
celerate the future progreis of inventive
genius, by affording a perfeftknowledge
sf the particular point of perfection to
which any art is at any time advanced,
From whence the fpeculatift might, as u
were, take anew departure, instead of
□ending, perhaps, a whole life in trac
-11? out those rudiments, which had been
prcvioufly discovered, tho' unknown to
aim, for want of authentic information.
(To be continued.)
B- rU i Ai;iLr hi A.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF 'REPRESENTATIVES.
Friday, January 13.
A bill sent from the senate for the
encouragement and regulation of the
sank and other cod filheries, was read
1 firft and second time, ordered to be
printed and referred to a committee of
whole on Monday the 23d inft,
A message was received from the se
nate. notifying that they had palled a
sill, establishing a mint and regulating
he coins of the United States, to
which they request the concurrence of ,
his house.' The bill was twice read, and
made the order of the day for 1 hurf
dav. next.
The message from the President and
[.he papers accompanying it, relative to
the ftateof the frontiers, were referred
to a committee of the whole house 011
Monday next
The house then took up for con fide
ration the amendments proposed by the
[enate, to the " bill for extending the
time limited for fettling the accounts
between the United States and the in
dividual llates : "and concurred in them.
The committee to whom was refer
red the petition of R. Lloyd, reported, as
their opinion, that it would be inexpe
dient to enter into a difouffion of the
grounds of his claim ; and recommend
ed that he should have leave to with
draw his petition.
Mr. White prefentcd a memorial
from sundry inhabitants of Frederic
County, in the state of Virginia, com
plaining of the disadvantages under
which they labour, from certain parts
of the excise law—Referred to the se
cretary of the treasury for information.
The report of the feleft committee on
the petition of B. Lincoln, C. Griffin,
& Col. Humphreys, commissioners for
treating with the southern Indians, was
taken up for consideration ; and a com
mittee appointed to bring in a bill grant
ing to the said commissioners the l'um of
— dollars for their extra expenses in
£<jing to and returning from the treaty.The house then resolved itfclf into ai
committee of the whole, (Mr. W. Smith
in the chair) and proceeded to the con
sideration of a bill to ascertain and regu
late the claims to half-pay and to in
valid pensions ; and having gone
through the fame, rose and reported it
with sundry amendments.
Adjourned.
Monday, Jan. 16.
A petition was read from Daniel de
Beuneville, praying compensation for
services as a surgeon in the army of the
United States, during the late war.—
Which was referred to the Secretary at
War, to examine and report thereon.
Mr. Bourne, of Maflachufetts, from
the joint committee for inrolied bills,
reported, that the committee had exam
ined an inrolied bill entitled, " an a£t to
extend the time limited for fettling the
accounts of the United States with the
individual Hates," and had found the
fame to be truly inrolied.
Ordered that the clerk of the House
carry the fame to the Senate.
The House then resolved itfelf into a
committee of the whole on the confi
dential communication from the Presi
dent, and the papers relative to the situ
ation of the western frontier—which
being private, the galleries were clear
ed.
Tuesday, Jan. 17.
A bill was read the firft time, for the
rc-imburfement of travelling expences.
incurred by the commissioners in 1789.
for treating of peace with the Creek In
dians at Augufta,in Georgia.
A memorial was read from Christo
pher Marshal, junior, and Charles Mar
lhal, of Philadelphia, praying to be en
couragedin their manufactory of Glau
ber's salts, sal ammoniac, &c. by impo
sing an additional duty on the firft ol
those articles, when imported from Eu
rope,—Ordered to lie on the table.
A number of petitions were read
praying compensations for fcrvices ren
dered, &c. which were referred to the
Secretary at war.
Mr. Dayton laid on the table a reso
lution to the following effect : That the
Prefidcnt of the United Stales be re
queftcd to cause to be laid before the
House copies of the official communica
tions, which have taken place betweer
the Governor of the State of Pennsyl
vania and the Secretary at war, in rela
tion to an attual invasion of their terri
tories, or imminent danger thereof, anc
the raising of troops within, orundei
the direction of the said state."
The House then resolved itfelf into <
committee of the whole on the commu
nications from the President refpe&im
the state of the western frontier. The
galleries were consequently shut.
LONDON, Nov. 2.
The obftinacyof the French Princes
who instead of returning to their coun
try in order to enjoy the liberal provi
fion made for them by the Nationa
AfTembly, still choose to be humble de
pendants on the munificence of foreigr
courts, rather than imitate the conduil
of their royal brother, gives us greai
reason to conjecture that they are yet ir
cxpe&ation of some exertions bcirn
made in their favor. Were then
hopes of entering France at the head o;
an army, as their adherents have lent
boasted, entirely vanished, they wouk
certainly not be so imprudent as to con
t;nue in a state of exile, when, by taking
advantage of the a£l cf amnesty passed ir
their favor, they might recover eaff
and independence, and be honored anc
esteemed ameng their fellow-citizens
This circumstance alone, were there
no other, must incline us to think thai
the report of a confederation, enterec
into by the German princes and othei
powers, to restore the ancient govern
ment of France, is not entirely void oi
foundation. The . great defeition of
French officers, which has taken place
since the king accepted the constituti
on. seems to be a corroborating proof
of the justness of this idea ; but as the
pretence of assisting Lewis XVI, is now
entirely done away, it is probable that
the enemies of France will make the
Claims of the German princes, refpe&ing
Alsace, a handle for carrying their de
signs into execution. To give a great
er colour ofjuftice to their proceedings,
a general congress of ministers from
' most of the powers in Europe, will per
haps be aflfembled ; and ffiould negoti
ation prove abortive, recourse will be
had to hostile measures. But, as winter
now rapidlv advances, the French have
little to fear this season from those who
maywifh to disturb their repose. In
the mean time, their constitution will
be acquiring frefh strength and vigour ;
such plans will, no doubt, be adopted
by the new National Aifembly as will
add to its weight and influence ; proper
care will be taken to guard the frontiers
of the king3oin, and to augment its re
sources ; the difficulties which the con
federates must encounter will thus eve
ry day be increasing ; and before the
period arrives for taking the field, such
circumstances may occur as will render
their scheme either highly dangerouls,
or altogether impracticable.
The emperor,
who ought to be the principal fuppotrt
of it, if he is not infatuated by intempe
rate zeal, must forefee the confequsnce
likely to arise from his entering warmly
into any plan of this kind ; and we can
not conceive with what face he can o
pcnly attack a country whose new na
tional flag he has already publicly ac
knowledged.
The King of Sweden and the Em
prefsof Russia, it is said, are very much
disposed to support a counter revoluti
on in Francc. This is not at all surpriz
ing. The former, by the late revoli|ti-j
on in that country, has loft a confidera- 1
ble subsidy ; and the latter reigns OTer
perhaps more slaves than all the other
sovereigns of Europe. It is the intcreft
of the one, therefore to endeavour to re
cover what he has loft, and of the otjjer'
to retain what she already possesses. If
the spirit of liberty, the focus of which'
seems at present to be in France, fholld
continue to intreafe, it may reach eVen
the remote regions of the Ruffian Em
pire. The people in many parts thtre
are fold like black cattle. This undoubt
edly is a fhameful degradation, wlwch
the proprietors of land there wish as lit
tle to lee aboliffied as the Weft-Irtlig
planters do the Have-trade, and wh|ch
government countenances to anl'wer its
own purposes.
FRISDEiUGJt-TOWN, Jan. 7.
On Thursday la ft arrived in this town
Prom Fort Walhington, Major C ait her,
who left that place on the 27th of No
vember , this gentleman informs—that
Major Zeigler, with a party of men had
:ome in, after escorting a quantity of
provisions to Fort Jeffcrfon ; where he
eft Col. Darke, Col. Gibfon. and Capt.
Darke, (three wounded officers) the
wo former in a fair way of recovery—
he latter, from the nature of his wound,
which could not b<" kept from bleeding,
was thought to be in a bad lituation; that
Major Hamtramck had been tried by a
court marshal—acquitted—and gone,
with a party of men, to Post St. Vin
cent's to take the command of that
place : Major Gaither further fays—
that on the J ith ultimo, he met, in the
wilderness, a family, consisting of 20
persons, from North Carolina, who ac
quainted him, that they had just parted
with 11 Cherokee Indians, who treated
hem in a friendly, peaceable manner—
exchanged venison for bread—and de
:larcd, on leaving of them, that their
nation was warmly attached to the
United States of America.
His Excellency Gen. St. Clair, it is
"uppofed is now on his Way to the f 4 at
of government—orders had been giv fen
:o Cen. Scott, (a few days previous to
he departure of Major Gaither) to pro
cure a fufficient number of men to ef
:ort him through the wilderness.
When men fight against men, it is
r ome consolation to the unfortunate
oldier who may fall into the hands of
lis adversary. when he refletts, that a
legree ofchriftian treatment will be ex
ended towards him—and that the onl)
aunifhment he can rcceive will be no
ting more (perhaps for a season) thar
he lofsofhts liberty. Had this plea
ant idea been realized in the late defea'
}f our brave, but little army, we fhoulc
lave been fparcd the disagreeable talk
}f informing the Public, that fevera!
■vounded soldiers who had been, una
voidably, left on the field, were taker
ay the Indians-— thrown into a larg\ Jire
ind burnt to death ! This intelligence
was communicated to the Printer by
the officer mentioned in the above para
graphs. and may be relied on.
PHILADELPHIA,
January lg, 1792.
Proposals aie publiftied in New-York for the
eftabhihment of a second bank ill that city,
which it is apprehended will tend much to the
advancement of commerce, agriculture, and
manufactures, throughout rhe state. Among the
reasons given for the neceflity of this second
bank-eflablilhment, are the two following.—
The capital of the old bank is not JujJiciently ex
tenfwe for increasing the wealth and commerce of
the city—the capital Jlock thereof fells at a moll
enormous advance, without any jujl cause, the cor
poration poffjjing no exclusive charter.—The ori
ginal capital stock of the proposed bank is to con
fiftof one million of dollars, divided into two
thousand {harts, each share being five hundred
dollars—Subscriptions payable in gold and silver,
two hundred dollars on every {hare, on the
third Monday in January ; one hundred and
fifiv on the third Monday in May ; and the re
maining one hundred and fifty dollars on the
third Monday of September next. It is said,
upwards of fifteen hundred shares were fubferi
bed in a few hours.
An English paper of the 24th of Oftobei
mentions that " one of the firfl a£ls of Col
Simcoe's adminiflration in Canada will be, tc
deliver up the British polls situated on the eaf
of the river St. Lawrance, and to the south o
Nova-Scotia, according to certain articles in thf
treaty of peace with America."
There is every reason to believe that the ex
tract of a letter from Edenton, in our paper o
last Thursday, mentioning a second flight of thf
king of France, and his fafe arrival in Prussia, i:
entirely void of foundation.
The Corporation of the city of Albany havi
resolved to convey to truflees, a part of the public
fijuare in that city, for the purpose of eretfting:
College thereon, and a fabfcriptlon is opened foi
receiving donations to carry the design into exe
cution.
A late London paper has the following para
graph . " The American funds are now much
fought after, and have risen within the two lafl
months from 92 to 120 per cent. The Dutcf
iave fold out very large funis from our funds t(
purchase those of America."
The public aie cautioned against receiving
Fifty Dollar Bills of the bank of North Ame
rica, without a fliicl examination, as some bill:
five dollars have been altered to fifty ; th(
original sum appearing to have been extraffe*
by a liquid, and fifty dollars put in the placi
with a pen. The irrpofition may be easily disco
vered from the back of the bill, the altered placi
appearing of a yellow call.
The situation of the French emigrants at Sci
oto is thought not to be at this time, the mot
LligiW;. It i? hoped, however (fays a publica
tion ol ycllerday) ihat the conduit ofthele set
tiers among their Indian neighbors will procuri
them fafety. If the natives, however exafpera
ted, do but know uem as harmless Grangers, i
is not probable, upon thole principles of natu
ral jultice which predominate even in a favagt
breall, that they would willi to consider them ai
enemies.
Late accounts from Hilpaniola inform u:
that about the time of the deflrufction of Port-au
Prince the mu'artoes seized on the strong fort ol
Port Louis, three leagues from Aux-Cayes, or
Jacquel, and some other places. Considerable
Dodies of these people were alio within foui
Miles of Port-au-Piince. The western qujrtei
if the island mult therefore be considered as ir
sofleflion of the mulattoes, who are superior ir
lumber, in arms, perhaps in property and ac
ivity, to the whites. No detlruttion of pro
>erty had been committed by them ; nor wai
here any union between them and the negrt
nfurgents. Their demand is, an equal partici
lation of privileges with the whites. An em
bargo was laid upon all vefTels in the harboi
>f Port-au-Prince about the 25th of Novembei
all.
The trade of a country (fays a late Hartforc
>aper) naturally runs to the head of navigabk
vaters ; and although, in an infant settlement,
1 commeicial town may arise at the mouth of :
iver, yet when the interior parts of a country
ire peopled, such town will certainly decay,
inlefs supported by a foreign or forced trade,
Newport is such a town. New-London anr
Mew-Haven are partly in that situation ; tho
Mew-London, by the river trade, will be kep'
n a thriving Hate ; and New-Haven, never hav
ng had the trade of the river, may not dccay
The city of New-York, by its connection wits
ither flatcs, will not decay ; but Albany is def
ined to be its rival in business. The vaflpopu
ation to the northward, eaflward and weftwarc
if that city, will lome time or other force th{
rade, which is to supply these inhabitants, tc
he head of navigation. The flupid dulnefs ol
he Dutch will retard, inllead of accelcratinf
his event ; but entcrprizing men are fact croud
ng into Albany, and they have convinced the
world that a sea vclfel can go to that city. Th<
iettlemertts at Lanfingburgh and Troy, on thf
:aft fide of the Hudson, will divide thebufinefs :
but business will certainly increase at the head ol
navigation.
In some parts of this state (fays a Boflon pa
per) heart-burnings have been created becaufc
he commonwealth have chanced to draw two 01
three of the late highest prizes ; but if the
Grumbletonians consider the number of ticket!
infold, they would have grumbled worse, had
lot some measure of success attended the nlk.
The rage for lottery adrenture io expiring, and
it is expected, the class of Chatirhown lottery
which will commence drawing as soon asihefe
mi-annual prizes are published, will be " the
lad words and dying speech" of lotteries in this
commonwealth.
The court of Spain have it in contemp!a;io>
to eftabfifh a colony in Trinadad, which is ad
'miredasan earthly paradise, containing all the
luxuries and convenieneies of life. It is filia
ted in the Atlantic or American ocean, sepa
rated from tqe province of New Andalusia, in
Terra Firma, by a narrow flrait, called Bucco del
Drago. In the year 1498 it was discovered by
Columbus; in 1595 taken by Sir Walter Ra
leigh ; in 1676 taken by the French, who ex
torted from the inhabitants 89,000 pieces of
eight to save their houses, It his for more thaa
a century remained in the poffeflion of the Spa
niards.
The workmen, in digging into the founda
tions of the baftile at Paris, hue lately discover
ed another subterraneous dungeon, at an ama
zing depth. Uuiverfal curiosity was of course
excited.
Several dead bodies were found there, become
skeletons by time, and the damps of the place.
Nothing certain is yet known, as to whole re
mains they are, though conjecture naturally is
at work upon the occurrence.
They areexpofed to public view, and immense
crowds are running to iufpe£l them.
Accounts from Warsaw mention, that the
elcftor of Saxony has consented to accept the
fucceflion to the crown of Poland.
The Dutch (fays a late English paper) have
continued felling out of our funds for some
time, especially bank flock ; and more tranf
fers have been made in one day than ever were
known before in so short a space of time.
CHARTERS.
IN Europe, chaiters of liberty have been
granted by power. America has set the example
and France has followed it, of chaiters of power
granted by liberty. This revolution in the prac
tice of the world, may, with an honefl praise,
be pronounced the mofl triumphant epoch of its
hiflory, and the mod consoling presage of its
happiness. We look back, alieady, wilh aflo
mfhmcnt, at the daring outrages committed by
despotism, on the reason and the rights of man;
We look forward with joy, to the period, when
it (hall be defpoilcd of all its usurpations, and
bound for ever in the chains, with which it had
loaded its miserable vi£hms.
In preportion to tfae value of this revo'ution ;
in proportion to the importance of inllruments,
every word of which decides a quefiion between
power and liberty; in proportion to the lolem
naty cf a £ .s, p;ocI uning .l.e w.!I. and authenti
cated by the seal of the people, the only earthly
source of authority, ought to be the vigilance
with which they are guarded by every citizen in
private life, and the circumfpeftion with which
they arc executed by every citizcn in public trufl.
As compacts, charters of government are supe
rior in obligation to all others, because they give
-lfe£l to all others. Astrufis, none can be more
acred, because they are bound on the conscience
>y the religious fanftions of an oath. As metes
ind bounds of government, they tranfeend all
uher land-marks, because every public ufurpa
ion is an encroachment on the private rioht, not
jf one, but of all.
The citizens of the United States have pecu
iar motives to fupportthe energy of their confli
utional charters.
Having originated the experiment, their merit
will beeilimated by its success.-
The complicated form of their political fvftem,
irifing from the partition of government between
the Dates and ihe union, and from the reparations
and subdivisions of the several departments in
:ach, requires a more than common reverence
lor the authority which is to preserve order thro'
ihe whole.
Being republicans, they mull be anxious 10
:flablifh the efficacy of popular charters, in de
ending liberty againfl power, and power againfl
icentioufnefs: and in keeping every poition of
sower within its proper limits; by this mear.s
difcomfiting the partizans of anti-republican con
rivances for the purpose.
All power has been traced up to opinion. The
[lability of all governments sfnd fccurity of all
rights may be traced to the fame source. The
moll aibitrary government is controuled where
the public opinion is fixed. The despot of Con
stantinople dares not lay a new tax, because eve
ry fiave thinks he ought not. The mofl fvflema
tic governments are turned by the flighted im
pulse from their regular path, when the public
opinion no longer holds them in it. We fee at
this nloment the executive magiflrate of Great-
Britain, exercising under the authority of the re
arefentatives, of the people, a legijlative powc
aver the Well-India commerce.
How devoutly is it 10 be wished, then, that the
public opinion of the United Stales should be en
lightened ; that it should attach itfelf to their go
vernments as delineated in the great charters, de
rived not from the usurped power of kings,
but from the legitimate authority of ihe people;
and that it should guarantee, wnh a holy zeal,
these political scriptures from every attempt 10
add to or diminish them. Liberty and or
der will never be perje&ly fafe, until a trespass on
the constitutional piovifions for either, shall be
felt with the fame keenness that rcfents an inva
sion of the dearest rights ; until every citizen
shall be an ARGUS to espy, and an /EGEON
to avenge, the unhallowed deed. Jan. 18.Extraß of a Idler from Princeton, New-
Jtr/ey, January g, 1702.
" Amidst the variety of topics which every day
brings into conversation, none has engaged the
political circles in this town more than the late
unfortunate defeat of our weflern forces under
General St. Clair. The event of this expedition
was predicted by many refpe&able characters,
whose habits of life have given them opportunities
of forming correal opinions on military matters.
However eagerly the extirpation of the lavages
was anticipated by the unreflecting and inexperi
enced, thtfe initiated veterans saw things in a dit -
ferent light, and their apprehensions, from the
raw state of our new-raised tioops,as wellas their
total ignorance of the Indian method of warfare,
have been but too literally verified. This second
misfortune has (hewn us that all attempts to re
duce the savages mud inevitably fail. We are
generally of opinion that the money expended in
offenfive operations —In carrying hoflilicies to the
villages of that fugitive race of people, who emi
grate from place to place as convenience diredts,
would be touch more eligibly applied towards the
extinction of the heavy load of debt incurred by a
juji and necessary war—a war to emancipate us
"from the Ihackles of that power whose claims of
dependency and vaffallage were not more inequi
table than ours with respeCt to the Indians of the
weflern territory.
" This contest appears unwarrantable as well
on the principle of jufticeas of policy —The firft
may be instantly decided by recurring to the idea
of primary poffeilion, by which the fir ft occupants
are considered as legitimate proprietors of the foil,
and all attempts to dispossess them mull be pro
nounced indefenfiblc. As to the policy of this
territorial war, a variety of unanswerable reasons
present themselves. A young empire, just emerg
ing into existence, embarrafTed with debts, a fed
eral government, scarcely established, suspended on
the fknder thread of opinion—shew us the evident
necessity of an undivided attention to the ails ol
peace. However pacific the afpeft of the politi
cal expanse may now appear, it is rot improbable
that a perseverance in the present system of public
measures with regard to the weft, may occasion a
eonfiderable ferment, if not difaffecftion.
" The ready, the virtuous, the magnanimous
acquiescence of our citizens in the present imposi
tions on commerce, originated in an idea that the
monies so raised would be expended frugally and
with care.
" The Indian war—a war thought unneceflary.
inequitable and impolitic, is therefore objectiona
ble, and hence it is inferred that the enormous
sums annually expended on so unjuftiSable a bu
linefs, is mere prodigality.
" Tofatisfythe public mind, and to retrieve
the declining reputation of our councils, it appear;
to be indifpenfibly requisite that the military fyf
tem (bould be totally reversed; all idea of conquefl
or expulsion fliould b« reje&ed as fallacious, anc
f»ch measures pursued, as may give tranquilitj
to the frontiers, and reftere the public confidence,
„ —a-j .. . . „ r._ -
troops to be butchered in the weftrrn forefls
would be more than fufficient to quiet the Indiat
tribes for twenty. You may perhaps think my so
licitude too great, and my apprchenfions border
ing on the chimerical, but I assure you I feel tlx
full force of an honest conviction. I unequivocal
ly assert the neceGity of some speedy change ii
public meafurss—and do not hesitate to avow ii
as my decided opinion, that unlefsan alteration 0
the present system loon takes place, a partial re
volution of a certain office will be the com*
quence.
NOBILITY.
The downfall of Nobility in France has opera'
ted like an early froft towards killing the germ o
it in America. The human mind, in these ad
vanced ages of the world, from its habits of edu
cation, has alTumed an imitative calf, and is ge
iserally content to take every thing upon trust
AVhere millions of men unite m supporting an)
one opinion, however ab'urd orfalfe, enough ar(
to be found, upon no better authority, to purfuade
themselves it is right. The idea of the neceflit)
of a nobility for pieferving decorum in, anc
giving eclat to, a nation, has been so afliduoull;
propagated through the world, and the minds o
men have been so dazzled by the tinsel fplendoi
of courts, asjto be almost universally reconciler
to the invefiing some particular citizens wi'.t
certain titular badges of diftinQion and higl
founding appellations, the 1 iginal growth of some
enslaved foil ; and which, contemptible as the)
were, mull have been at firft borrowed fion
some pitiful hereditary proprietor of territory tc
adorn men, whose virtuous or valorous action:
would only have conflituted their true merit,
and who were therefore superior to all titles, as
far as they implied an addition of worth or reai
dignity.
IN all great undertakings there ought to be
some near proportion between the means prepa
red and the objctl to be attained. Where ina
dequate means happen to be attended with fuc
k cess, the honor and eclat are indeed great, thro 1
a prejudice common to mankind, who on these
occasions are always inclined to transfer the cre
dit due to fortune to the heroism or the wifdorr
of the individual. In the warfare of the antieni
Romans, want of success was a crime of the deep,
eft dye; and I recolle£t that Cicero in enumeia
ting the virtues proper for a great military com
mander poGlively mentions gcod fortune as one
of the ir.difpenfab'e qualities 1 j forro luch a cha
rsfter.—Succelslul ralhnefs will ever meet wit!
its friends and admirers, as tie unfortunate mar
who a£ls only from the dictates of prudence anc
mature refletiion will nevertheless find himfel
flighted and neglected.—At the fir ft fcttlement o
the island of Bermuda, the colonists, who hae
gone out under governor Tucker, soon fount
themselves in a fitU3tion little better than abso
lute confinement on a barren rock. As a ship
onlv visited the island once a year, and was pro
hibited from taking off any of the eolonifts, two
of them formed the desperate resolution of re
turning to England in the governor's filhing boat;
having amafled a small quantity of provisions
and stolen a compass, they embarked, and arri
ved fafe within one or two days fail of Gibraltar,
Here they met with a pirate, from the coast ol
Barbarv, who inflead of dillretiing, rewarded
these desperate men with a new floie of provisi
ons (which were now exhaufled) and offered to
take them onboard, and land them on the con
tinent. The fellows refund this offer, and soon
after came fafe into the road of Plymouth. Foi
this extraordinary adventure, instead of being pu
nched for their desertion of the governor, they
were received with open arms by their coun
trymen ; and. if my memory serves me, were
pensioned by the court, —1 he conduct of King
John of Portugal, on a similar occasion, was
somewhat different. Some of his discontented
officers at Goa, in the East Indies, wishing to
make a speedy remonllrance to the king on
some abuses in the government of that island,
embarked privately for Portugal in a boat ol
ei"ht tons. They anived fafe at Lisbon, aftet
having fuffered every thing that human being!
could be supposed to fuffer in such a situation.
The king ordered them to be taken care of if
one of the royal hospitals, but in token of his dis
approbation even of fuccefsful rashness, orderet
the barque to be hauled up and publicly burnt b)
the hands of the common executioner.
In ancient history, defparation is contir.uall)
found to be one of the ingredients in conftituti n;
their moll renowned military characters. Cool
ness and judgment is palled over with cold ap
plaufe, while the madneft of an Alexander
has claimed the rapturous praises cf a thoufanc
pens. Charles —the 12th. of Sweden, wilhed t«
form his charaftcr upon that extraordinary pattcrt
and to descend to posterity emblazoned with tin
fame sanguinary colours. Unfortunately for him
the hey- day of quixotism was in his time alread]
pad, and his memory is not much regarded.
Mankind, as fir back as we can trace them ii
history, and from our own knowledge have har
their different ft age 5 of infancy, childhood, am
vigorous youth. For their own peace and hap
pinefs on this terrestrial theatre, it is to be hopcc
the cool, dil'paffionate age of manhood is at lengtf
arrived, or at leaft,is not far distant, when the)
(hall think and ad more like rational beings thar
in the melancholy ages that have preceded ut.
I [hall conclude thel'e refieitions with a few line
written several years ago on some volunteer sai
lors, who perilhed in a desperate attempt to take
with an opon boat and a lew mufquets, a guari
ship of twenty guns :
Brothers, no doubt your aim was bold—•
And chattering rumour fays
Had fortune fmil'd vou might have claim'd
Oar loudest songs of praile.
For venturing on so hold a fray
You join the dead-man's cl&ls,
While he who had the ienfe to stay,
Still lives to drink his glass 1
A cirrumftantial account appeared some tim<
ago in several of the newlpapcrs [Sec Nation*'
Gazette, No. r4, for an extra£t] of certain fan
guinary transactions between the crew of thi
snow Eleonora, commanded by Capt. Medcalfe
and the natives of the Sandwich islands, in th<
South Seas. —"Capt. Medcalfe being abfen
(fays a writer in a Providence paper of the 7tl
inft.) the impartial public, it is hoped, will luf
pend their opinion, until he shall have an op
portunity to relate the particulars himfelf, coi
roborated bv the testimony of one of his officers
who contradicts the account alluded to above, ii
several points of consequence. That some o
the natives were killed is not denied, but it wil
appear that this was the unavoidable confequenci
of defending the vessel, and saving the lives o
the crew."
The following is an authentic lift of arrivals a:
the port of New-York from January ift J7<)r, tc
January ift viz. 120 (hips and barques, 28c
snows and brigs, 1 galliott, 1 polacre, 15S schoon
ers, 158 (loops—total from foreign ports 71$—
and iioi coasters. By comparing the preceding
lift with that in the Philadelphia papers during th<
fame period, it appears that there is a balance ot
151 vessels, from foreign ports, in favor of New-
York, and 407 coasters.
Ex'.raß »f a letter from Pitfburgh, January 5.
We have no news from any of the gam
fons since last post, except from Venango (Fori
Franklin) —it is mentioned by some packhorfi
men that arrived here vefterday from that place
The accounts they have there of the loss of tbi
Indians in the engagement with general St. Clair'
army is said to be about 1 50 of the savages, and ;
number wounded. Unleis some vigorous mea
sures are adopted bv government for the proteftior
of the frontiers of this state, a general movemem
of the inhabitants will take place."
Further particulars relative to the defirußicn oj
Pott'au-Piince, avd the ecnuji between tbi
whites atid mulattoes.
On the rih November a treaty was
between the white people and mulattoes ; —and al
things remained in perfedl quietness till the 21ft,
"n the morning of which the peace was folemnlv
ratified.—At 12 o'clock, however, the whites ve
ry imprudently undertook to execute a mulatto
criminal, who was before confined under sentence
of death. There were at this time about 125 c
mulattoes in town all of whom were provided
with arms, for the defence of themselves and the
white people, against the r.egroes. They were
highly offended, however, with the execution o!
one of their colour ; and the majority of them
not thoroughly uHderftanding the propriety of tht
measure, seized on the firft white man »who camc
within their reach, and " hung him by the neck
till he was dead." In the afternoon of the fame
day, at half past 4 o'clock, the whites sent a flag
to the mulattoes—ftating the impropriety of their
conduct, and commanding them either to Jay down
their arms or leave the town. To this the mu
lattoes spiritedly replied, that they would not do
either of them j—and immediately took up their
arms/ and paraded in a large street near the go
vernor's house. The whites, amounting to
2r.00, loft no time, on their part, in making pre
parations to attack the mulattoes. And at five
o'clock an attempt was made to surround them j
which, however, proved ineffectual. A severe
c*nfii<3 ensued, in which from 50 to 100 whites
were killed, and among them a colonel. The
mulattoes fought bravely ; 2nd with the loss of a
number killed, and 150 who were taken prison
ers, they beat their way through the whites—took
two field pieces and marched out of town. At
past five the town was secretly set on fire in
two places-—a timely discovery was however made,
and the fire extinguilhed.—-About two the next
morning it was again set on fire in fix different
places, and the inhabitants were now no longei
able to subdue the flames. A general conflagra
tion took place ; and almost every valuable build,
in-r, excepting the king's store houses, were burnl
down. Property to the amount of millions
destroyed, and those who on the 21ft of Novembei
were worth two or three hundred thouland dollars,
on the 22d, were not in the poffefiion of a fingU
rtiill tg. ' They were even fed as were all the in
habitants, with provisions drawn from the king's
stores.
Immediately after the town was destroyed, the
whites (on the idea that the blacks were accefforj
to its deftru&ion) formed the horrid design of put
ting to death all the negro and mulatto womer
and children who remained in the town. Anc
this defig*, to the eternal infamy of the perpetra
tcrs, was put immediately into execution. Ar
iiriifcriminate daughter took place ; and not on«
who could be found during that day—whether in
nocent or guilty, but was inftantaneouflv butcher-
by a bullet through the head, or a bay
onet into their bowels.
LONDON, Nov. 2.
The disturbances in the Netherlands seem rz
djer to have been quieted for a time, than entirely
qielled. Symptoms of discontent begin again tc
appear in those provinces, and the ferment amonj
the people rapidly incveafes. The terror infpirec
by the Imperial army, sent to overawe the adhe
rents of Vandernoot, and reduce them to obedi
ence, had undoubtedly a temporary effect } but th<
lenient measures afterwards pursued, seem to hav<
a|iimated the hopes of the diffident, and to havi
encouraged them to frefn a£ts of disobedience,
Our readers will remember that the Emperor,
when he enforced his authority vi et arniiy exclu
ded from the council of Brabant five member:
who had been chofea by the revolters at the fami
time that thev expelled those who had remainec
faithful to their sovereign. Since thar period, th<
states have continued to insist upon these five coun
fellors being restored to their former dignity
while government persists, with equal obstinacy
in refuting to comply with this request. Thi
quarrel, which was only a pretext for coming to ar
open rupture, has almost ended in the manner thi
promoters of it wished. The time for voting thi
(applies having arrived, the leading men in tht
dates, and particularly the members of the clergi
ind nobility, drew up, on the 10th of last month
1 remonstrance in which the states agree to retufi
all subsidies until government shall have givet
them complete fatisfa6lion» Alarmed at this op
position, administration grafited a delay of tw<
days, in hopes that a little reflexion would brin<
them back to their duty ; but the states not onl;
continue firm in opposing the le-vying of fubftdie
:ill the five councilors are restored, but requiri
»lfo, that all the suppressed Convents fl:all be re
:ftablilhed j and that no exceptions fftall be madi
in the general amnesty* This lafl article evident
If relates to Vandernoot and Vaneupen, witl
:heir principal adherents. They add to these de
nands, the complete re-eftabliftiment of the uni
•erfity of Louvain to its original condition, an.
he re-union of the duchies of Brabant and Lim
) >urg. Inflammatory writings, a? is generally thi
ale on such occasions, are in the mean time pub
ifhed and circulated among the people; and go
'ernment have just now offered a reward of tw<
lundred ducats to any person who will dif- overth
luthors of two papers entitled, 7he Voice cf th
3rabavters, and The Bflgic Manifejlo anticipated
//hat the event may be, time alone can discover
>ut we may venture to predidt, without the gift o
rophecy, that while such is the disposition ot th
tmperor's fubje&s in the Netherlands, Leopoh
vill not be very forward in giving countenance ti
my attempt that may be made against the nev
? rench constitution.
The result of the conference at Pilnitz, in whicl
he count d'Artois had a {hare, was, we are told
he formation of a triple defenfive alliance betweei
he courts ofVienna, Berlin, and Dresden, for tin
>urpofe of maintaining the fafety ot the contradV
ng parties, and of preserving public tranquility
To this treaty the Germanic bodies 2nd othe
towers will he invited to accede. Ihe clauses 0
t were, as is said, aifcuffed and agreed upon at Vi
:nna by prince Kaunitz and Merits, de Bishop
werder and Jacobi j but how far it may have re
arion to the late revolution in France cannot, w<
)elieve, with any kind of certainty, be determin
ed. Most of the sovereigns in Europe, were thei
eal sentiments known, are enemies, no doubt, r<
he new constitution of that country, which seem:
o hold kingly power and hereditary nohility ir
ittie estimation. If it remains fixed on a solid ba
is $ if civil diffentions do not sap its foundations;
fit sustains injury neither from private attack:
»t home, nor from open violence abroad; and i
he people of France after their long struggle foi
iberty, enjoy that happiness under it, which ii
eems calculated to procure them, other nations
vill look upon it as a model worthy of being imi
attd. 'The success wkich has attended the exer
tlons of the French will stimulate those who no;r
crouch under the galling yoke of oefpotifm to feck
for the like hlefiings. Arbitrary power is efra
blifhed in by far the greater part of Europe ; liber
ty has not yet reared her standard but in a few fa
vored corners of the globe 3 the rights of man are
trampled upon even in countries which boast cf
being enlightened by the lamp of icience : and as
much reformation is still necefiary,kings may well
be alarmed, and jealous of a constitution which, if
copied by their subjeCts, mud greatly Jeffen their
pomp, and limit the prerogatives they at present
enjoy. But since Louis XVJ. has accepted the
new constitution 5 since he has publicly fwern to
maintain it to the utmost of his power, and to de
fend it from all attempt that may be made againfi:
it j and since the most perfedt harmony seems to
prevail between h»m and his people, the other so
vereigns of Europe cannot make his situation a
pretence for interfering in the affairs of France,
or disturbing its tr nquility.
To tbe Citizens of the Lrnited States of Awerica y
Mr. Peale begs leave to present the following
refpettful Address—
HAVING formed a design to eftablifti a Mu
seum, by a collection, arrangement and pre
lervation of the objects of natural history, and
things ufelul and curious—in June, 1785, he be
gan to collect SubjeCts, and to preserve and ar
range them in the Linnaen method j his labours
heiein have been great, and disappointments ma
ny, especially reSpeCting proper methods of pre
serving dead animals from the ravages of moths
and worms 5 in vain he hath fought, from men,
information of the effectual methods used in fo
reign countries : and after experiencing the most
promifircg ways recommended in such books as
he had read, they proved ineffectual to prevent de
predations by the vermin of America. But in
making various other experiments, he at length
discovered a method of prefervatinn, which he is
perSuaded will prove effectual : it has a very fa
vorable appearance in praCtice ; and far furpafles
all others that have come to his knowledge. Ne
vertheless, it will be obliging in gentlemen to in
form him of the best practices in Europe, or elSe
where.
The difficulties ?n prefervlng subjeCts being thus
overcome, and the Museum having advanced to
be an objeCi of earned attention to many indivi
luals ; with sentiments of gratitude, he thanks
[tie friends to the Museum, who have generouilv
added to his collection a number of precious curi
afities, from many parts of the world ; from Afri
ca, from India, from China, from the illands of
the great Pacific Ocean, and from the different
parts of America j some whereof are the more cu
rious, as they have been but very recently disco
vered, even by the great voyager 3 of Europe.—
He refpeCtfully requests a continuance of their fa
vors j and the afiiftance of all persons who may
be poffefied of things cuiious,that they can spare,
whether they be of America, or any other part of
the world : all will command his grateful acknow
ledgements as valuable presents to himfelf, to the
public and future generations. He is the more
sarneftly bent on enlarging rhe collection with a
greater variety of beasts, birds, 'fifties, infeCts, rep
lica, ve'geublc*, jhlacrals, t & e!JS, foffils, medal*.,
old coins, and of utensils, cloathing, arms, dyes
and colours, or materials for colouring or for phy
(Tc, from among the Indian, African, or other Sa
vage people ; and all particulars, although but 4n
model or delineation, promising to be ufeful in ad
vancing knowledge and the arts ; in a word, all
that is likely to be beneficial, curious or enter
taining to the citizens of the new world.
Rut alas ! a design so vast, and, he is bwjd to
fay, so important, is far beyond the slender abili
ties of an individual, whose profefiional industry is
necefiary for the support of a numerous family.
Animated by the generous patronage he has al
ready received, and by the magnitude of the ob
\i€ty which he fondly hopes will procure the at
tention of the public, he now refpeCtfully Solicits
their aid to enable him to raise this tender plant
until it (hall grow into full maturity, and become
a National Museum.
With harmony little things become great. All
the splendid Museums of the great European na
tions have risen from the foundations laid by in
dividuals. America has in this a conspicuous
advantage over all other countries from the no
velty of its vajl territories, But a small number
is yet known of the amazing variety of animal,
vegetable, and mineral productions in our forefts
:>f 1000 miles, our inland seas, our many rivers,
that roll through Several states, and mingle with
the ocean.
A museum stored with thefc treasures must in
deed become one of the firft in the world ; the
more so as the principal naturalists in Europe will
be anxious to acquire our productions by an ex
change of whatever is most valuable in their re
spective countries, and foreign colonies.
Mr. Peale means personally tc solicit the afiift
ance of gentlemen whose regard for Science is well
known : if there are those who would become in-
J'ptFlors or v'xfitors of the Museum, their united aid
ind influence, he is confident wouli greyly pro
note a design that is truly worthy of 4 American
patriots and citizens of the world. .. « *"
CHAs. Wn. TEALE.
Philad. Museum, J2n. 13, 1792.
PRICE or STOCK.
Funded Debt.
Six per cents, per£. - - 24/9.
Three per cents, - - - Iy.
Deferred fix per cents, -- - - 15J5.
Unfunded Debt.
Final Settlements and other certificates, 21/6.
Indents, - 14/6.
Bank Stock 1-2 Shares 11S per cent, prs
nium.
Whole Do. 60 percent.
This day is Pubiifhed
and for sale by
THOMAS LANG,
No. 21, Church alley ;
An EiTay on
COMMERCE and LUXURY.Mr. Freneav,
YOUR inlet ting the following lines in the Na
tional Gazette, will much oblige,
Ycur >, Cccm A, R*
Addrcffed to a very young Girl.
BRIGHT are thy beauties, Mira, mild thy
mind,
"Where sensibility and truth are join'd.
Thy heart, wnere dignity and worth preside,
Charms. without art, and triumphs without pride.
Ev«r attentive to difcretion v s (trains,
The founds of' (lattery thy ear difdaios j
Yet thou wilt doubtless cendefcend to hear
Applause, the tribute of" a heart iincere.
Weak is the wretch j oetefted be his lay,
Which aims from worth to lead the mind astray !
No laurel e'er can flouri/h on his brow j
iienfe mud his claim to glory disavow j
But fhoul J falfe taste his head with Lays adorn,
Truth ! by thy hand thofc trophies flwii be torn,
Pioving, what every candid breast: must own.
That genuine praise results from thee alone*
Mild was thy infancy ! parental care
Fondly e/lay'd to make thee good as fair,
Nor have their efforts been employ'd in vain !
.Ah ! Mira ! still adorn the virgin train,
Till higher duties ihall thy care demand,
And the lov'd youth Ihall grasp thy willing hand.
Howe'er removed from want's oppreHivc power
Learn to refpedt misfortune's awful hour.
Down the mild stream of life, you gently glide.
Protected kindly now by wind and tide.
But lhortiy thou must quit the friendly shore,
See furious waves, and hear the tempest roar.
Lov'd in thy infancy, the verse attend,
Which Ihows no lover, but a real friend.
Love's brightest fires but for a momint shine,
Whilst friend/hip is immortal and divine.
Hear me this solemn, awful truth avow ;
1 he child (hould to parental wisdom bow,
At heme if joftly fcorn'd, who can applaud
'1 he g;Jdy maid who thoughtl«fs flaunts abroad ?
If thus negledted surely /lie mull meet
Sneers in each house, and scorn in every street.
To thee, Discretion, may we ever bend,
Own thee as guide* and honor thee as friend.
By thee directed, Mira ihall prevail,
\v hiift e'en superior arts and knowledge fail.
And, when her hand the happy youth ihall bless,
May ev'ry virtue crown her with success j
And reach her to reward with generous praise
The friendly heart, which di&ated these ia^s.
Philadelphia, Jan. 14, 1792.
FRANCE, Oa. 18.
Continuation fron our lajl of Mr, lirijfot's remarks
in travelling through the United States,
[Trandated from a late French paper.]
** THE happiness or of every nation de
pends foiely on their political systems. In a bac
government, its defedts are perpetually discover
ing themselves every where and in every thing. Or
the contrary, publia happiness and personal fafet)
always betokens a government eftabli/hed upon ju
dicious principles. The efFe&s ®f such a govern
ment are. felt by the traveller who fieeps unmolest
ed in the forefts, and are perceptible in the modeil
unaduaiing air of the inhabitant!! of tnecountrv,
The fiogle circumstance of every farmer's houfc
being well provided with glass windows convincec
ine that America is happy $ and the neatness and
elegance of their hospitals confirmed me Hill more
in the opinion.
" The following description of the public hos
pital at Philadelphia is a proof of the excellency
of the laws, morals, and government of the United
States.
<f Every sick, or poor nun, who procures 3d.
mittance to this benevolent asylum, has a bed pro
vided for him, with plenty of covering, but no cur
tains : which I call an advantage. Every room
receive its light from windows opposite to each
other, which gives the apartments a cheerful af
pedt. Light is one of the firft enjoyments to a
man in confinement, but is always afforded very
i'paringly by tyrants to wretches who languish un
der their power or resentment. Besides admit
ting abundance of light, these windows pro
mote a free circulation of air. Most of them open
to a charming profpeel in the fields j and as they
are not very high, and without gratings, any of the
persons confined, who meditated an escape, might
easily efie6l his purpose. But this never comes
into the head of any of them. . A proof that the
confined persons are contented, and that the go
vernment of the house is mild and lenienc.
" The kitchens are kept clean and neat, and
not infe&ed with that abominable scent, so com
mon to our best kitchens in France. The dining
rooms, which are upon the ground story, are as
airy and clean as the lodging rooms. In lhort,
cleanliness and good order are observable through
every department of the institution. A large gar
den, at the end ot the court supplies the house
with kitchen vegetables, and other necetfaries j and
here, by the way, I was very much surprised tc
meet with abundance of exotic plants anu lhrubs.
This garden seems well attended to, and many per.
sons come to walk in it for their amulement.
Here, too, 1 saw leveral droves of hogs belonging
to the hnfpital j pork, in America, being a con
ilant dilh the whole year round at the best tables.
" It is with difficulty that I can describe the
sensations I experienced in viliting the several
apartments of this luilding. A hospital, howevei
well governed or endowed, had alwavs, in my mind,
been alfimilated with the idea ofml'ery and melan
choly. Here I was completely undeceived. An
Ameaicaa holp:talwore quite a different face. ]i
was a new thing for me, to lee a sick man in <
place of this description, to be lodged by iumfetf
attended in h s own room, and visited by his wife,
his children, his neighbors, and from time to time
comforted by these endearing relations. In com
paiifou to this mftitutiori of benevolence 1 coo/i
---dercd the hospitals of Luiope no other than tin
graves of the inin c ', thw I*s übuJwS 11 a
naii misery. In those placcs diseased crowds, uttei
Grangers to each other, are indiscriminately hud
iled together, feparaced from all that is dear U
hem, and perhaps not a connexion in the work
for who in iney have a sentiment or regard —In
(uch a situation, what is man ?—a iear uetachet
from the tree and borne a way by a torrent—a car
case of mere incumbrance to the eaith, and on she
eve of diilolution.
" Since large cities are one of the inevitable
conferences of the fecial state of man, and it is
the lot of all large citUs to have their (hare of vice
and wretchedness, the inference is, that hospitals
(hould be the asylums of' beneficence and good
usage, and not of absolute punifhmenu They are
necetfary, because in every rtate or country, even
the molt prosperous, there are thoufandi of wretcli
p? who have no other refuge ; so many females
biind, incurably Oca/, and becomc dil o ulting with
various infirmities, who, if abandoned to them-
Teives, would soon perish in the streets !—Such
•/ere my ideas as I paiied into the iirlt apartment,
rijere I saw a group of hideous figures, and in
Ihort every tiling that misery a«iu iiuiady couio
:o!le£i together.**—[Here the writer pjrcituiiirizei
a number of ohjeth, toiicb we JJjuilpafs
14 1 iuw feverai women holding in their arms young
children, the fru<ta of their illegitimate amouro. j
:ould not help pitying the innocent iitlle wretches,
>orn under the evil star of misfortune—Why i» it
said I) that mankind even at thi» tender age a c
;ondemned to be acquainted with miiery !—Let us
hank. Cod, however, that there is one country in
.he world where illegitimacy of birth is no obstacle
o the notice of the public, or to the rights of clti
senihip--It was with emotions or pieafure that I
aw these unfortunate mothers tareiling their ia
ants>and bru/Eing ofT the flies and mulkeiowa that
lilturbed them.
44 There were but few young children in the or
gans' apartment. What few there were, howe
ver, looked well j had the appearance of Leiag
veil fed, and seemed cheerful and contented,
1 was looking at these little crcatuiea, oil
>fthe directors came in from a walk, and diltii
>uted among them some cakes that he had bought.
—And thos, the directors or the holpitah in/irne
ica (thought!) do not only pay attention to th-:ir
:harge, wnen present, but even think ot them a. a
iiftance. This is, without doubt, the only conn
ry in tiie world where the foul or a hoipital-uirei
or is not made of adamant!
44 Negroct and negro women are here lodged as
veil as the white*, and fieep in tne fame roons*
Among these ) law a negro wonian, about thirty
rears old, who fat by the fide of her bed, and frfin
vith much ability. Hsr eyes fecnied to ahi a kiftd
vord or two of confutation from the mailer of tl*:
lofpital. He accordingly laid Something eacuu
aging to her, and flie was overcome with grati
udc-—i'oor negroes, what iatisfadlion Ihall
nake you for the evils we have brought, a:id ihl)
nuft bring upon your unfortunate ;acc !
44 The happineis of this female negro was not,
lowever, to compare v/ith that of a blind youn t
•oraan, who feemea agitated with the jpo'l liv<ilj
imotions of joy, the moment lhe heard the voiCs
>f the good director. Ke asked her, what nevrs
>he made him some aniwe... in alj thecheerfulje!
>f good numour. Sue then began to drink: he
ea, fitting by a tabic where all the little tea syr
liture was neatly arranged—her tea !—ls it pota
>le they drink tea in hospitals ? said I—
tbjeft here, said the director, is ts treat our pa
ients with humanity, and to give them the dc
:ent convenicacies without any of the luxuries o
ife. We give tea to such helpiefs persons as be
lave themselves with propriety ; others, who lav
omething from their labour, find themselves i.
uch little fupeifiuities without any expence to th
nllitution.— u But why not rather (replied I, ful
>r my ideas of French hospitals) why not rathe
[ive them warm water, or a glass of wine, tliaj
uch a luxury as tea My goed friend (refuniei
;he director) tea is a repafr of a complex natufe
ea includes a cogfiderable number of other relilh
ng particulars j whereas, a glals of wine is a fh|;r
inu traniient enjoyment, and no fooncr tailed thai
lone. A man is ever belt pleased with a repaf
hat includes delay.—You complain of our luj(u
ies—buc I at this moment fee an old woman \i|h<
s drinking tea with butter and ham, and yet \
carcely fatisfied with her treat !
4< i took notice that in this hofuital there wrii
nany more women than men ; a:.id amOri ■ thi
atter few such gnaltly figures as we lee every da'
n and about the hospitals at Paris—figures ii
yhoie countenances are at once depitf ed guilt, mi
ery and inlolence. These, on the contrary, havi
ldece.it aii and condud themselves with civlKpy
—I eiiquired oi the direclor, what resources the'f
people had jor livitig after their uifchaige from
;he hofpiial ? informed me, thac ijiduilr'
vas a never iaiiing refuurce for a decent livelihood
sfpecially for the men. With the women, Ke ob
served, it was not quite so well ; that after be n:
jifcharged i r rom the hospital, it v. as common witi
[hem to return to their former vicious pia£tices
To prevent this relapse, continued he, we are abou
eflabiifning iome little manufactures to emplo]
tne females while here, and from the proceed
ihctcoi to rai/e a fund, so as to portion off e«*cl
individual, upon her leaving us, to th(
world a n« w in some honell way of giving, t>r, i
"hey woulo prefer remaining heie, to apply it t<
their perfoiiul «iuvantage.
4< 1 have iittie doubt but this dtfign will bi
carrieu into execution. The Quakers are botl
ingenious and perlcvering in whatever concerns th<
relict of the unfortunate. I afterwards dilcover
ed tliat the autnor oi this benevolent v\a
tne very director I had couveffed with. I took no
tice that he was eiteemed and beloved—entire!]
taken up wiiii ufeful things—and, «»t the farm
cime, scarcely thirty years of age—Due it ha.s eve
oeen chaiacierifiic or this lucf to produce men o
uncommon uoweis, and the molt expanded be<.e
voienct." L Le PtyriAe Francois, No. 6"3.'
M, GARDETTE, Dentijt,
Respectfully informs the public, tha
he ha> removed from No. £S to l%o» izi
Oiieniut, near Fourth street, oppclite th<
Bank of the c. xiitcd States* 20
Men of Glujs, throw no Stones."
" Riuiculum acri
Fortius et melius plerumque fccat res."
Mr. Freneau,
AS an admirer of every valuable an
tique, I leave you tojuage of the
pleasure I received by the perusal of the
precious and authentic price current of
Roman Catholic indulgences, which
you printed in your paper of this day.
I doubt not, many of your readers read
it with pleasure equal to mine.—Such u
delicious morceau ought to be printed in
Letters of gold, to (Lew how much Protec
tants have loft by their desertion of the
[cartel whore of Babylon with whom so
much libernlity prevailed, as to allow
luch perfect freedom in morals. I am
happy to be able to favour Ih2 world
with a similar price current, published
byaProteftant synod in Germany, an
no 1589. It is to be found in the thud
edition of the 5,5 th volume of their de
crees, page 4515, which is now in the
Library of Mynheer Vanderdunder
blufce, at Golhcn, where the curious
may fatisfy rhemfelves on the fub;e£L
I am aftonilhcd it has so long escaped
observation, and hope that whenever
the Popish one appears in future, this
one, equally genuine, may accompany
it, to show that other fe£ts have been as
kind as mother Babylon.
LIST of FINES.
For inventing any lies, however abo
minable or atrocious, to blacken the Pa
pists, id.
Forgoing into a Popish church, ex
cept to burn it, or to break some of its
idolatrous ornaments £. to
For killing a l'opilh pried ad.
For leaving mass, £. 50
For robbing a Popish church, id.
For marrying a Papist £. to
For letting fire to a Popilh church
2d. But if the Conu relation are burn
ed in it 2 -j
For poiforting a Popish king, -jd.
For publishing Popilh books, £. 100
For having images in one's house
£. 20
For murdering an)' number of Monks
>r Friars, under one hundred, 6d.
Above 100. ' Bd.
For eating pies at Cliriftmas, or fad
ing in Leni. £. "o
For uftng the fignof the cross £. 40.
To this Lift of Fines is added the fallowing
Indulgence.
For raviihing one or more Nuns, kil
ling the Pope or any numberof liilhops
not less than 12, a plenary indulgence
to go off to Heaven on full gallop.
Deer it. torn. 55. p. 45 15.
I hope your correspondent, who fa
voured you with the Pope's price cur
rent, will pay the fame degree of implicit
credit, to mine, that I have always done
to his. This, at leaff, I am entitled to
from him. And should any other of
your readers be so unpoiite as to call
my,veracity in qucftion, and demand
proofs, I shall only request him to set
me the example. Produce the proofs
of the one, and I shall piove the other.
ZWTNGLIUS.
Philadelphia, jfan. 12.
[ The Price Current in Thursday's paper,
referred to in. the foregoing, was Xra.nJlj.tii
from a French Gazette, entitled Le Patriote
Francois, printed at Paris, OHo'jlr 10,
1791 —It is there quoted as an exty<icl of a
" Idler from James Anthony Creuzc-La
iouche, one of the members of the National
Assembly, to the municipality and inhabitants
of the diflriEl of Vienr.e, tiurd edition, cor
rected and enlarged by the author." This is
the only authority in the Editor's poco.-.r for
the authenticity of the Pure Current. It
was translated indiscriminately among other
French extracts for the National Gazette,
and not particularly addreffzd to the Edi
tor for publication.^
WINCHESTER, December 24.
The following incidents are related
to us by pcrfons who were in the late
engagement —Adjutant Burgess receiv
ed two wounds, the second of which
proved mortal—after the receipt of the
firft, he fought on with didmguifhed
gallantry—the second unfortunately
flopped his progress—saint with the
loss of blood, he fell—a woman, whom
we understand was particularly attatch
ed to him, flew to his relief, and in en
deavoring to raifc him, received a ball
from the enemy, which terminated her
cxiftence.—Some tim.- after that much
:o be lamented youtlr, Ensign Will art,
Fell, one of the savages attempted to takei
jffhis scalp, which Col. Darke perceiv
ing, he ran up to the spot, and stabbed
the miscreant through the body , with a
[mall sword, before he had time to ac
i;omplifh his diabolical purpose.
One of Piomingo's warriors, who was
:n the battle, is said to have killed and
Icalped ten of the enemy with his own
tiands, and was himfelf killed, in the
ift of scalping the eleventh.
GEORGE MEADE
HAS FOR SALE,
At his Stores on Walnut-Street Wharf-,
Arac p'p es °f 3 and 4 years old bins of cx*
change Madeira WINE, -which he •will df
pejeof by the pipe, hog/head or quarter cajk.
London market MaaeiralVlNE,sand byears eld.
Old Sherry ffINE of the frfi quality, by tht
bog/head or quarter ciifi..
'ihree and 4 years cud Lijbon WINE, of a fu-
Qerior quality to -what is genet ally imuoriej, by tht
t>ipe, quarter cajk, or larger quantity ■
Choice old Comiac BRANDT, by the pi fie, tierce,
ir larger quantity.
Aje-w quarter chejls of firft quality ll\for TEA'
he has juji received by the Pigtu, Loxity, majier'
from London, a few quarter calks of old Madeira
WINE—And
by the brig Mercury, capt. Stevens, from Dub
'in, a fe-w boxes of Irija LINENS, lota pmed
2nd -well aJJ'orted : a fe-w bales of Re I and rr'u t te
FLANNELS, andJome CLUE.
A fe-w boxes of Spermaceti CANDIES of tht
Srji qualify, and Burlington PORK ofprune quality
Be has also to difpoje of a quantity c/ dreffld
White Oak STAPES.
He means to keep a eonfiant supply of Virjl Qua
lity Madeira and Lijbon JVINES, and -whoever
•s pleajed to favor him uuito their tujlom, may be
ifjured of being -well fer-ued.
He will through the Winter a:.d Spring, buy
tndrefjed HANDSPhCES. lie is purchajiiif
FLAXSEED aud BEES- '//AX, and will give
he htgbeji Price for them.
N. B. A fe-w Hampers of excellent Londoe
PORTER and Taun.on yILE, jujl arrived and
'0 be disposed of'. " if
ROBERT SMOCK,
Woollen Draper Iff Mercer,
Has jus received by the fh\p Pigou, from Louder.,
and for sale at his Store, on the north eaji earner
of Market and Third Jlreets, Philadelphia,
AN ELEGANT ASSORTMENT OF
SUPERFINE and Taper broadcloths, inalmoft
every colour.
uadies fuperfme habit cloths, in the most fa&ion
able colours.
supeifine ca (Tuners, do.
'o. and super elaltic striped cloths.
Hilled drabs and hunters cloths.
\ variety of fancy wuittcoating, in silk, silk and
cotton, fi!k molcflciu, cafliincrs printed and
tamboured, and fupcifine ihiped Spanifli toili
nets.
Hens black fattins, florentines, and silk prunellas
of superior quaiites
►ilk, silk and cotton, cotton and uorfted bofe,
afiorted.
iattins audmantuas, a beautiful variety*
iuperfint rattinets, with a large collection of best
trimmings for cloths, &c. of every quality,
tforeens, joans spinning, duiants anu caiiman
coes.
iairbines and camblets, &c*
1-8 wide fupeiline Marlcilles quilting with bor
ders*
arfeilles bedcuilts and cotton counterpanes, 9-4
to 12-4.
•'landers bedbunts and bedtickings.
\ beautilul variety of chintzes and cottons.
\n elegant ali»rtmenr of jard wide iurnicure
chintze3, in beautiful colours and paUei,;»,
with a variety of furniture cottons,
/elveteen;, velvets, coiduroyj, thicksets, fancy
cords, stockinets, royalrius> iattinets, hair
pluilxes, &c. &c.
kriped and grey, twilled and plain Bath coatings*
-vole blankets afiorted.
ROBERT SMOCK, has also for Sale, a great
/ariety of GOuDS of the best quality in their
everal kinds, he prefumcs it; is unnecelfary to
>e mOiC particular in the enumeration, and that
t is fuflkicnC to lay the alfoiimtnt is very gene*-
al and exlewfive, confuting of almost every ani
le in his line of bulinefs.—Being deiirous or giv
ng entire fatisfaftion to thole who may be plcaied
o favour him with their cuitom, as Vveil
is of meriting a continuance oi thole cuf
omers, whole favours he has hitherto expeiien
ed, he /latters himfelf the chcapr.cfs oi his Gouds
vili be the best mc«ns of effe£ing his will.es.
This Day are published,
S E R M O N S,
Historical and Charaftcriftical :
By WILLIAM LINN, D. D.
hie tf the Minjiers of the Reformed Prct-Jlant,
Dutch Church, in the city us New-York.
?old by T. DOBSON, R. CAMPBELL, £3
M. CAREY.
[Price Three Quarters of a Dollar.J
A few Copies of the Report of the Secretary
if State on the fubjeEl of the Cod and Whalc-
Fifheries —may be had at the offee, No. 239
High-fir ut.
PRINTED BY
C H I L D S AND S W A I N E,
*T THEIR OFFICE, NO. 239, HIGH-STREETj
fc£AR SIXTH-STREET,
I'HIEADiLI .i I A.