lf?I ■(/ \ l'('
Vol. I.
For the National Gazette.
In ca pit oho craws et infers abaria folcbant acci
pe c Propter ea quod urj<r< > i iwiijini I,of mm
ccw. c.s ultp r cs , quod cnira i(U clurnot ibus nunUant yilli
morfiius vcndicant.
-Old Scholiast.
Dogs and geese ufsii to have their cnb
in the capitol; tlie g/ele giv:the alarm
of enc-ni es, 'dttd r he pmli'ffiingthertl ,
the lornVer discovering tlu-m by their cack
ling; the latter attack them with th-rir
teeth. *
J'M •. rR*». FA U .
TH RE are f-w pnlpl: so very ig
norant of 'I ry that I need m
forra tlitfin the Roman civnmon
weijth - " ■ . its p ef." V tiofl to dogfe Uliil
gees (or at leal! jy the latter) and in what
cftunati: ri (!n*y were hcl i by that peopl ,
may lafily bo gathered from the motto- of
this paper : and, indeed it seems as if
provi ience for the benefit of mankind,
and a pallid in n of theiT lilvty, had in ah
free ftatcs dn'riblited a fufficietu quantity
of theft- tiftful animal) to alarm them a
gti nit, and revenge hem upon, all i va
ders, —To illuitrate this by ißtt tices drawn
from the writings of tfie ancients would
be a talk as . s it wouM be
enolef , lltice it wiii he iuffioicnt to eltah
lilh the truth of the poiition (except to
very fcept cal gentlemen) to turn ont s
eyes to tie county < f Montgomery. and ex
ao.ine vit.'i wIiJT indult y and zeal th;fe
indefatigable creatu e* a.e exvrimg their
talents jjor rattier their iuftinits) againll
the r -"03i of :} pl".ce. But as A
is a word late y ctcpt into our language,
abb fit the etyripiijiiy and iigi>ification of
v\ ljit'h, i cons. is 1 am vers much i» the
<!a;k, and as it is not morally impofilMe
but there ar? numbers in tins r'efpect as tg
11 tyrant as my e'.f, it hi .y not in this place,
be improper to hazard a ponj. Aure on the
id ■ if'haa been in.ended to coiiV'y : an.!
if I lie p - rnitted to jtld of it, as
i hy a very able writer in
, S iftirdsy "he lj:h instant,
•t 4' • i it ck "ol.lt'r, ltocV
j ! . pet: fojVjjer, qu ck.
J . jyc; :i , but a Iri n iaciiltn. u
r. . or uu'ohanjc—A w s
r,: 'ii< l'. i.a ! !•« ( i" >i i'ii veirure
to- i . . i tb> *r • fi'L'c hav.- gueia'c
ai - ' ) t feems'h.ive be-.ii foint
ti' lo atrociously impudent as ti
medule in a very public manner with tin
affairs.or,lh. tlnte, '.iflcad of.ltavoig the;v
tailittr brt.te.S; i'offaiu, as i)ny in a.
coiifc'-■' i, i j i to have ('one, and Goi
otiVy what mifebi'. f might ha een
flit the liberties of the good people o
these dates, if they had not been fortu
nAtely discovered by a flock of tin fe watch
ful cr atujes as tl.cy were cont iving way
ant) iru.a »rp,c ,: tep into a con field oti tin
banks of P'etJcroming, who ga. bled ai
alarm i - so loud : kty as not only to per
vade the-cxtremitie of the county, but o
the United ta es themfe'ves.—And lal
S turd'fy morn a f i•.iteti puppy, c lie:
the Ir.depindent Farrrer, waylaid a partv o
them, as tliey were returning from one o
their abominable n'etiimrs, an hour or twe
before day, and so (tiapp'd their heels am
toretheii (tockiii; s, and accn/npanied th'.
attack with ia howl so truly Cerhrtan
that it is fairly to he I oped be has fuffi.
ently frighted them from such attempts ir
future.
Tor itiy ov it part, I look uron it as >
peculiar bli fling of Heaven (and for w icl
I fiiall c«i"y re V'rp unfeigned thanks) tc
have pi - ced me in a and w here liberty
reigns, and where such Arguses guar. b. i
thront — lpii-8 and protcfiors tliat no bril e
(except pt cks of corn or loads of marrow
bones) cap lull to repo'e or blunt tluii
teeth Aikl 1 earnestly entreat my cour
trymen, to de 1 out thtfe v \ h a sparing
]und, and edge their vigilance and fero
j-jty by hunger; for altbo* iheir clamom
m ay frequently diiturb ourflecp, we ought
to remember that it may frighten away
the thieves.
%pt. aj. VINDEX.
By P. FRENEAU: PubUJlicd Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars p(r annum.
WEDNESDA. Y, September 26, 1702,
DEFENCE
lOs Mr Je-ffkrsoh'spoli'ical Chara.fer, u
reply .to several Pieces which buve
appeared nga'f ft it in the
Ga%:tte of the Un ited Stales.
[From the American Daily Adverrifer.j
Mr. Dun lap,
THE public linve been lately
with !o:ne crit cifms i:> the Unite'
Statta Gazette, upon the political char
niter, ami conduit of the Secretary o.(
State. The charges exl.ibite! agrinft
him, in fubltance, amount to this : I i ha>
he was always inim cal to the present go
vermnen', and has in a particular manner
Iheivn it lin-e he came into office by the
freedom wi h which he has censured pub
lie measures. 2 That he has abused the
trull reposed in him, by conferring the
appointment of tra si '.tor of toreign lan
guages, in the department of state, Worth
253 ollars per annum, upon Mr. Ftenean,
ed tpr of i!k N ition d GiZ *tte This ap
pears lobethe (urn of the charges '! what
ever else they con ain is the figura'ive am
piification of the writei only,and • educibh
to no diftindt head
To that rVfptctabli tribunal to whom
they have been sub itte<l, upon the fatts
and illustrations given, partial as th y are
oar as it r fpeits himfelf, the deeifi >n
mi ;ht be left vvi.hout a comment. His
country me 1 have been too eng and too
well acquainted with his t lens virtues
and fervic s, to T iffer loofc and equivocal
of this kind to It (Ten him in their
eitimation 13ut this attack h s obviously
lomi-thing flirt in view, than fi:np yto
wound the fame of one deserving citiz n
It at tint free and minly (pint
d 1 enquiry, which nas lately developed the
puncipies, and derhnnftrated the mifchiev
!)(is ten eiicy of fonie of the mealtires of
government, and wh:ch it seek to crufli—
a Ipirit of enqu ry whic the auih■ >r sup
poses hus been fettered a id cherished by
him: If a person of his note in the repub
lican lift could be deft, oye'd in the public
"onfiitence, its canfe w uld be humbled,
a d'tbe fritriiis of monarchy triumph. An
ittack, therefor-., upon this gentleman,
rrtulj. be eemcd a duett but artful t>ne
Ufctyp principles, and in this view it be
.oitltß a matter of public concern, and me
-its particul. r a:ten io .
What was his political c.<xndu£t in early
life, through the revolution, and so the a
:1 prion of the pref tit government, tho'
lie p rind was momentous and eventful,
rid the leveral ftati ns which he occupied
fiich as rep'efented him perpetually to the
.kvV of his courttrymen ( seems of no im
portance upon the present occasion. This
ong and honorable career has eft-aped the
;enfure>of the American, and I (1: 11 not
- view it for the fake «' applause. 1 have
illudcd to it merely to fheu, that if he has
lot kept pace, in al the revoln'ions of
ipinion, pvadtifed by those who now ccn
ure him, he has notwjthHanding been al
.vays conliftent with hi rifelf.
Before I proceed in reply to the firll
;harge, to furmlh the documents which it
s presumed, will place his poli ica' fenti"
ments in a fatisfaitory point of view, a
previous general qtnftion should be m
iced, whieh though not particularly cori
nefttd with him, ma', be deemed of irr.
portance to the c> mmnni y : "We eir
was tie merit or off, nee of favourable 01
unfavourable opinion of the cnnfli.ti'ion,
:i.d to whom rendeied ? ' It was a propt
(Ition of 1 feat • x-ent, submitted as of righ
to every free citizen, am; upon wl;i<*h he
wa bound to decide; to have (hf. nk fro ft
•t would have been diflionoral le, and
fhamefitl ibandor/m nt ofhsi uiy B
what rule ihcn, or upon what princip l - .
shall a man be rewarded or purifhee, Icr
the fair exercise of his judgment, efpeci? 1 y
when cal et'. en to give it, by obligations
he could not refill, and upon a point, 11
which in preference to all others, the mof
unbouuded freedom ftiould be used ? I had
supposed that if bis decilion w?S a wife
one, the benefits of the fvitem wt'e to be
bis compensation ; if he erred, his own
and the cal .mities of 'lis country, the pi)
nifh nent { that the quellion involved in it,
neither in the origin no> its consequences,
confederations of a pet-lonal nature,and thai
of conrfe the con'n; L .t of no man, in illa
tion to this ohjeft, be it what it might,
merited reward or punifl ment. I could
wish thrt-t-hefe political cafu lUj who ar.
acquainted wi h the ti an factions on the
gr at theatre, woUid folvt this problem ;
f>r to me it Teems indifpenfiVy neCeflary
that those who arraign a fellow citizen,
before the bar of the public, ftiould at
ieift deirionllrate thtt the chaige with
ivhich he s acctlfed, contains in it Tome
hi.ng criminal.
It will be remembered that at the tirtir
:he Conlli*illi<-n wis formed, and whiift
in.ler i'ifcn(fi >n in the (late conventions.
VI J : IT. rfotl in F a rice the miniltei
jf America. That of he train of vents
•vhich brpught about the important critic
>lagencral convention, as of taofe which
olio wed he was an iriterefted, but ;
■iftant fpettator. The na ureofthe trull
epofed ' i hi in by the pu lie confi ned him
o the fp <t. The only part he co. Id bea
-11 the car(B of that momentous period was
:o unite witii his fellow citizens in the mod
ervent wlfhes, that their labours might be
Fuccefsfui, and redound to the advantage
if their corrnpo • count y.
What his fen im nts were upon the sub
& o the conftitu ion, and that of go
pernment gerterallv as conne&ed with i
vi 1! be si n bv the following extracts talc "
From his le teis addrefTed to a part.cita
friend, at the time of their refpeiitiV
Utcs and in the coutfe of a very interest
ing ami confiden'ial corrtfpondenCe. As
ie could not have f<J ;feen that in any
jofij'hl - event, they would belaid before the
public, th y mull be cohfidered as the free
Hud fponta eous ifTulions < f his heait
Fro;n that fiieiid I have received them,
,nd will if any doubt (1) mid be fug eited
>f their authenticity, immediately make
hem acccfii' le to others. To Mr. Jet
s. rfon, whole approbation to this measure,
has neither been aiked nor obtained, some
ipology for ;he freedom i due : to the
;onfidence however which his own condudt
lias inspired, that it wa3 never his wifli,
his sentiments, upon this or any other sub
jsdt of a public nature, diould be with
i.eld from his countrymen, it is to be attri
buted.
" Paris, Dec. 30, 1787.
" The season admittin only of opera
tions in the cabinet, at.d these being in a
rent measure feci e , I have little to nil a
etter. I will therefore make up the e
Sciency by adding a few wor.'g on the
!on(l tution proposed by our convention
[ like much Ihe general idea of framing a
yoveinment which fliould go on of itfelf
jeaceably, vw'tho. t needing cont nu, 1 reve
nue to the ikate legislatures I like the
MyanizaCron of the government nto leg't
ative,j'utficiar-, and executive I like the
sower given the leg.flati'e to levy taxes
am captivate;' by ihe convrorc'ife of the
ipp lite claims of t egreat and littleftateS,
>t the latter to qual and the former t.
arop irti nal : i flue.'.ce. lam much pletife
too with the fu'ullitution of the method o 1
poingby person', it fteaa of that i-f voting
t>y it,.t- s : anu I lite the negative given ti
'• a executive w tn a third of either house,
though I fiioul have liked it b- Iter, hsd
the (iKlictary been a;. pbintc' for 1 hat pttr
■ ofe, or inverted with a ftirl.tr and fepa
rte power. There ate oth r good things
1 f'efs m ment ! Will now add what 1
do not like. Ft'rft, tie oiriffiOn (>f a bi!i
ps tigi ts, pr:.v ding defy and w!tl ou
the of sophisms (or ffeeddrii 1 f religion,
freedom of the pref, p <t. £tin a.ainl'
(landing armies, refti:iS\ioii against mono
polies the eternal and unremitting forcr
of the habeas corpus laws and titals hv
u y 11 cl. matters of faift tria! le by the
IdWi of the land, and not by the law of aa
Numb. 05.
tions. To fay that a hill of tights was not
Ueceffary, brcaufe all isrefeived i.i the cafe
of the eneral government win'ch s not
given, while in the particular ones ali it
given which is not refirved, is furelv a
gratis d.ft'im, opbifed by llrong inference*
from the body of the inilruttient, as well
r; s from trie om ffion of the clause of our
present cm f delation, which hit', declared
that in terms 1 was a hard con*
ciiHion to fay Lecaufc there has been no
uniform! y ammg the states, as to the
cases triable by jury, because some havd
bed. so mcau ious as to abandon this mode
of t> ia',' therefore the more put ;ent fta:e»
lhallbe reduced to the fa e tvel of ca'a«
miry It would li ve hem much mre
just and wife o lia e concluded the other
w>.iy th.i> as mbft of the states had 'in 'ici
"ufly preserved this palladium, those who
had Wandered ftio Id be brought back to
it, and to h=ive cftabhihe general right in
dead of general wrong. Let me a.d that
i bill of righ's is wh t the people are ert
itled to againd every government it
arth, genera: or panic lar, and that tio
ult g vernment fiio Id reTufe, or reif on
inference. The second feature 1 diflil e,
rnd gteaily r'iflike, is the : in
-• ery ildlanCe of the hecefii y • 1 rota lott
a office) and molt particularly in the C<-fe
if the prcltdent. Expeuence concur -' u it
eafo ; in concludi ig that the firil ma> if.
rate will a'w y* be re el fled if the eoti
btution pr -its it He is then an r/'iuer
ir li e This onee ohfei ved, it beco;ne»
Jl f > miieh "to terrain r.-iti ns
i have a friend or a : iw, a the heaH <>f
>ur affairs, hi th. y v.-II inlet fere v iJi
uoney .nd «i h arm*. Ago a a
sngloman will lit ln;.po ; -;i. fcv a,it -ti
he btf-i -tic's \ if on eel Ve I, : d ■ ' a fe»
eo "d or th;r ' -le *i mri d v by
i+o votes* ht- w.'l p falft.'-.'t ! ill
play, oM poOtui n i'f :he .fctVs i.i jo.
verri:'ieltl,Se fi.pp -rtci by the If \
f.ir him, efpecia' y if they are the c, ;ai
m s,lying in aco,. part bo ly thunlV . . So
separating their opponents ; and t'.n-y
lie aided by one nation of Europe, while
he mrjoii'y aie aided by anotfier. i'be
d Ction of a ,*r . lident of fomc
years hence, >v 11 be much norern Mting
to ctrt in nations of Europe , than ev- r the
fled on of a king of PolatvJ W a . K. fle&
oh all the Instances in htt.iury ancient and
modern, of elective mop ,i'chit?, an i: vis
hey do not give foundation fo> my te rs.
The Ro .an emperors, the popes, wi.ile
ey were of any importance, the G :m n
jmpe ors till t ey became heredita: in
jraflice, the kin', s '.if Poland, the dey:- f
lie Ottoman i epen lencies. It may bz
aid that if ek&i, us r to be attended
A'ith these diforvtrs, the feldomer they are
• new d the better. But experience lhew»
hat the only way to prevent disorder is to
-en er th«im tiliin ereiling by frtquent
-liarigta An incapacity to be eledted a
evo'nd time would have been the only e!»
fet\ual preventative. The power of fe •
moving him every fotlrth year by the Vote
of the people is a power which will not be
exerciied. The king of Poland isremov.
able every day by the diet, yet he is neves
removtdi— Sm.ilWr o j dtiens are the apJ
pial in fact as Well aS in 1. w, and the bind*
ing all perf ns leg flative, executive and
judiciary by oath to maintain that ion(lii
tution. Ido nd pre'ertJ to decide, wh.r,t
wcU'd be the bed method of procuring the
elh.bH'hment of the manifold go d tKings
in this ton (I it tu ion, and of getting rid of
;hc bad. Whether by ad. pting it in horitj
of future amendmeii), or after it has ficen
<!u'y w ighed and cat'VafTed by the
after feeing the parts they gentia'.lv \iill:kej
and those they gfci eriilly a provefjy
ihern "we fee now what you Send
together yottr deputies sgnib; let ther/i
t,i:me a ConllitutioH for yottj omitting
what you haVe condemnedj and eftabli *
mg the poweityou approve. £v ( n tfiefe.
\ti 1 be a gt at addition to the energy of
your gov rrment ; at all events I hope you
will not be iifccurag.ed from other tjiahy' if the present one lliould fail ef its full ef
f*£t. The late letielliou in Massachusetts
lias given more alarm than I think it
should have done. Calculate that one re
bellion in thirteen Itb.tes in the course of
eleven years, is but cne for. each state in
a century and a half, nor will any degree
of power in the. hands of government pre
vent infiirredttons France, with all lis
despotism and two or-three hundred thow
fand men always in arms, has in.,
fu regions in the three years I have been
here, in every o e of which greater numbers
were eugaged than in MafTachufetts, and a
">grcat deul more blood was spilt. In Tyr
key. which Montesquieu fuppoTcs more
defpo'.ic, itifivrredHons are the events of
every day. In England, where the hand
of power is lighter than here, but heavier
than with us, they happen every half do
zen years. Compare again the ferocious
dep 1 edation? of their insurgents with the
order, the moderation, and the almofl fell
extinguidinient of ours. After all, it is
my principle that'th.- viill of the majority
should always prevail. If,they approve the
proposed convention in all its part's, I fball
concur in it fihecrfully, in hopes that they
y wil! • mend it Whenever they fliall find it
.work wrong. I think our governments
will remain virtuous for many centuries i
as long as they are chicfly agricultural;
and tni s will be as long as theie fball be
vacant lands in any part of America.
When th.y get piled upon one another in
large cities, as in Europe, they will become
rorrupt ar. in Europe, Above all tilings
I hope the education of the common peo
ple will be attended to ; convinced that on
their good sense we may rely with the
moll f curity for the prcferv .tion of a due
degree of liberty."
[To ll continued.^
—--'- - ■ - ■
For the N'ATIDKA L GAZETTE.
A caTjidState of PARTIES.
AS it is the business of the contemplative
ftateftnan to trace the history of par
ties in a free country, so it is the duty of
the citizen at all tinies to understand the
i'.itual state of them. Whenever this duty
is omitted, an opportunity is given to de
signing men, by theufe of artificial ornomi
lial .to oppose and balance a
g.iinft cach other thdfe who never differed
as to the end to be pnrfued, and may no
longer differ as to the means of attaining it.
The most interesting state of parties in the ,
United States may be referred to three peri- ■
ods : Thsfe who espoused the cause of inde
pendence and those who adhered to the Bri- i
tifh claims, formed the parties of the firft
period ; if, indeed, the difaffefted class were ,
coni'idarao'e enough to deserve the name of t
a party. Thijftatr of things wasfuperfed- ,
cd by the treaty of peace in 1783. From t
to 1-8: there were parties in abnn- 7
d. nee , but being rather local than general, t
tiiev are not within the present review. ,
The Federal Conftitlitioil, proposed in ,
the atteryear, gave birth to a fecund and ;
molt, interesting divilion of the people J
Every one remembers it, because every one j
\va involved in it.
Among those who embraced the conftittl- c
tion. the great body were unquestionably
friends to republican liberty ; tho' there „
were, 110 doubt, fbme who were openly or
fecreily iutaclied tojno larchy and arifto- t
cracy; and hoped tojjiake the constitution a s
Cradie for theie hei\tma."_v .eftabl ilunents. a
Among those <\ liooppofed the conftitu- a
tion, the :,reat. b'Jiiy were certainly well as- t
felted to the tinio'i a:id to f good government, {
tho' there might be a few who had a leaning f
tmfavourable to both. This state of par- n
ties waj termi'iated bv the regular and ef- r
fectual eftabiifhinenti of the federal go- j
veriiment in 1788 ; out of'the administration ),
of \\ h ch. however, has arisen a third divili- b
on. which be'ug' natural to ni'oft political v
societies, is likely to be of some duration in t
ours.
One of the divisions corifiits of tho'e, who (j
from particular i.Uereit, from natural tem- ( |
per, or from the habits of life, are more n
partial to the opulent than to the other claf- b
fes offociety; aud having debauched them- it
felvesmto a periuafipn that mankind are v
incapable of governing themselves, it sol- C(
loWs with them, of course, that govern- c ,
ment can be carried on only by the pagean- C ;
try of rank, the influence of money and e- ni
moiuments, and the terror of military \
force. .Men of those sentiments must na- m
turatly wish topoint the measures of go- ;l i
vernmeut less to the interest of the many ft
than of a few, and less to the reason of the fa
many than to their Weaknt*fles; hoping per-
liaps iii proportion to the ardor of their zeal, th
that by giving such a turn to the admini- i„
ftrauo.i, the government itfelf may by de- bi
grees be 11a rowedm o fewer haiids, and ap
proximated to an hereditary form.
Tne other divilion connfts of those who „
belie-viug in the doarine that mankind are tf
capa'de ofgover.ling themselves, and hating f r
hereditary pov\er as an insult to the realon n «
iiud an outrage to the rights of man, are ai
f- naturally offended at tvery public measUre
[ S that does not appeal to the underftandiilg
and to the general interest of the commu
nity, or that is Hot strictly conformable to
„ the principles, and conducive to the prefer-
I vation of republican government.
II I his being the real state of parties among
e us,an experienced aud difpallionate observer
will be at no loss.to decide on the probable
;s conduct of each.
I'he anti republican party, as it may be
u called, bei.ig the weaker in point of num
bers, will be induced by the most obvious
' motives to strengthen themselves with tke
"S men of influence particularly of moneyed,
a wfrich is the most active and insinuating in
fluence. It will be equally their true poli
e cy to weaken their opponents by reviving
exploded parties, and taking advantage of
all prejudices, local, political, and occupa
tional, that may prevent or disturb a gener
" afl coalition of l'en iments.
'- t lie Republican party, as it may be
s termed, conscious that tlje mafi of people in
e ev/?ry pSrt Of the union, v.i every ifete, and
of every occupation must at bottom be with
them, ' orh in interest 2'id sentiment) will'
naturally find their account in burying all
y antecedent questions, in banifliing every
t other diftinciion than that between enemies
1 and friends to republican government, and
s i» promoting a general harmony among the
t latter, wheiever residing, or however crti
s
Whether the republican.or the rival par
• iv will ultimately eflablilh its sfcendance, is
i a problem which may be contemplated now;
i but which time alone can solve. On one
. hand experience thews that in politics as in
, war, ftraiigeni is often an overmatch for
, numbers : and among more hippy charac
erillics of oili' political ficuatfdtl, kis now
well understood that there arepeculiaritie.s,
fame temporary, others more durable,
' wliich may favoui" that fide in the contest.
: On the republican fide, again, the fuperio
; rity of numbers is so great, their feutiments
are so decided, and the practice of making a
common eaufe, where there is a common
IVntiment aud common interest, in fpight of
circumftancial and artificial distinctions, is
lo well understood, that no temperate ob
server or human aifairs will be surprised if
die issue in the present inftaiice fliould be
reverted, and the government be admirii
ftered in the spirit and form approved by
the great body of the people.
Philadelphiai Sept. 23.
To tht Editor of the National Gazette.
Sir,
IJF.ING a real friend to manufactures, I
J am not disposed to discuss tlie power
of Co:igref< on that fubjea, or to throvV ali
dades in the way of their affumimr it, if '
lot delegated by the fmftttution. 1 am,
hi A evei, so far from joining in opinion
•yith tilofe who are in favor of taxing ao;-
rictilture by way of bounty to niantifac- !
that I think their learned arguments
ought to be directly faced about and made !
to look towards the opposite conclusion, to
W, that manufa£hires ought to be taxed in !
order to raise premiums for improving and '■
maturing agriculture ; and this not so
much with a view to the immediate advan
tage of agriculture, as to the folic! and ulti
mate prcfperity of manufactures. The fol
lowing reasons, it Is conceived, must over- ;
come the most obstinate prejudices in this 1
cafe. '
lirft, all wi iters and all experience a
gree, that population is more rapid in the J
country among tillers of (he earth, than in
town , the chief abode of manufacturers '
Secondly, that an abundant population can
alone support a flourifhing state, either of •
agriculture or of manufactures—Thirdly, '
that hands for manufacture; are to be drawn °
from that surplus of labourers which is ?
found on the foil—Fourthly, to uurfe and,
multiply labourers of the foil, is, therefore, C
the true and obvious means of providing '
the ha ids wanted tor manufactures—Fifth - ''
ly, clieapnefs of food and of materials ;
both of which are the fruit of the foil, the
very life and foul of manufactures ; and r
this cheapness will be promoted by filling
up the vacant country with labourers, and V
Stimulating by bounties their skill and in- L
duftry—Sixthly, as population is the great 3
reservoir from which manufacturers are to „
be derived, fa immigration is one of the P
itreams that may help to fill up the refer- °
voir. Now, in every just view, it is better f:
to invite foreigners from the country nla
ces, than from the towns of Europe be- g
cause they will bring with them equal, if "
no: more, industry, and certainly lets vice
And as to manufactures, they must gain as "
much from the introduction of tillers as of ?
art.z ms ; since the former by iilcrealing the U
flock of hands on the foil, will enable it the "
Taller to supply hands for niariufartures ; f
and, by tncrcafing the quantity and keepin, down '
the puce cf provjicn and materials, will give
immediate nonnlhment to that valuable 8
branch -of indufiry.
It will be asked, perhaps, where will be r
thejuftice, where the refpeit for the rights r ,
of property, where the equal protection to r ;
the tree choice of our occupations and the
tree ule of our faculties, thus to take mo- ~,
ney from the pocket of the manufacturer ,i
and give it to tile farmer ?
— "• L~-
6 ] i-J'" S 5 Uf ft' lon wotoM be attended with its
ig' difficulties, were it net for two confidera
i- t'ons : tlie one, that our opponents must
0 hrlt answer it by fhew.ng the
i- iuftice of taking the money of the farmer,
mil giving it to the hiantofaSHrerthe o-'
'& ther, that this is not a question of jttftice,
" hut of mere policy, and being tliraiHed in
le thatligiitonly.it is impertinent-to view it
111 any other.
>e Should this answer not be fatisfaflory, i
a- and the justice, right, and equally of the
is meafnre still be inlifted on as no less indif
ie penfable than its policy, I will endeavour
1. to avoid the difficulty by another theory,
i- derived not (o much from my own princi
i- pies or contrivance, as from the ingenuity
! g of a friend who has been To kind as to cbm
» municate it tp me.
This theory proposes, that instead of
1 taxing agriculture in favotir of manufac
tures, or manufactures in behalf of agri
* culture, all profefiions, trades, occupations,
" ahd employments whatsoever fliall be re
(l cjprocally "taxed and reciprocally bountled
h by a comprehenlive proVlfion of the govern
j nient for that ptirpofe. Thus let the ma
ll nufachirer be taxed, and the ta* paid as a
y bounty to the farmer; aiSd the account be
"j balanced by a tax levied on the farmer,
d and paid back as a bounty to the manufac
e turer. So again, a bounty may be taxed on
- the maker of hemp and given to the maker
of cotton, aud a like bounty in turn be le
- vied on the maker of cotton 'an*d bellowed
S oil the maker of hemp. Or; in a more cir
; cul-ar way, by taxes Ikitfully adjusted, the
e maker of hemp, cotton or wheat, after re
ii reiving a bounty drawn from some other
i" occupation, may pay a bqimty to the gra
zier, he to the tanner, he to the /hoemaker,
i' lie to the ruddier, he to the Coach-maker,'
, he to the Ironmonger, he to the imith, he
, to the stocking weaver, he to the cotton
manufa&urer, &c. &c. quite round tti the
- point from which you set out. Iti this
s luauher every body will receive bounties,
i It will be a lottery where every ticket will
i draw a prize, and every adventurer cOllfe
t quently be pleafefl.
s To the ob'eftifch, that the prizes recei
■ ved by the whole society cannot exceed the
r sums paid by the whole, and that as great
deductions mint be made in the bargain for
tile expence of managing the scheme, every
class ot citizens instead of being gainers,
rtutft.in f a a be lieceflarily losers; to this
objection, I ray, my friend who is as dex
trous in defending as he Is ingenious in
forming his thoughts, has a double reply
i eady, jo those who contend ior any o
:her form of premiums and bounties, he '
repeats what has been already said ; that 1
as they must either fall into evident parti- '
ahty and injustice, or proceed in the I'ame
magical circle, they have no right to start '
the objeaion. To thole, not under this !
, embarrafinietlt, he remarks,, that in all lot
teries and like schemes, where prizes and 1
premiums are to be obtained, the fund for !
paving them must be taxed on the adven-
turers, and particularly, that rile deduc
I nous and drawbacks not only make a part 1
of the scheme, but constitute its very ef- 1
fence; the scheme being set on foot for the ,
lake not of those who are to (hare the pi i- 1
zes and premiums, but of those who are to 1
have the benefit of the drawbacks and pro- c
nts. rhe former is quite a recondary, col- f
lateral, and incidental matter, well enough c
to amuse the calculations and hopes of the I
adventurers, but by no means the direst f
or primary object of the projectors. Con- I 1
lidered in this point of view, every is I 1
smooth and square i for note (fayshe) the
curious and charming efl'eas of a universal c
system of bounties, fiipported by a fyftcm r
of taxes well digested and disguised for such h
an application.
Kn it, having tile appearance of equality, 1
it silences, or, at least, roftens the noisy d'e- t;
claimers against unequal principles of le- c
giflation. Secondly, it will diffu/e good "
humour among all the fiiperficial and in- 1
considerate part of the community, who
receiving the bountv immediately and pal- n
pably, and paying the tax, they know not 11
when and feel not how, forget that the n
bounty is taken out of their own pockets, r f
and are ready to imagine it the produa of *1
some fle.ght-of-hand in the government be- P
yond their comprehension, or not worth u
their enquiry. Thirdly, the deductions °
and drawbacks in such a cafe may' fairly be *
estimated at io or ij per cent, on the Him Zl
paid by the people, the whole of which be- 0
conies a fund for salaries and to 0
Ooileflors, receivers, treasurers, commir- °
honers, managers, &c. &c. enabling the tc
government to reward a greater number
ot its p.aive friends, and' encrealing its
means of obtaining a willing obedience to vl
all its measures, or of compelling obedi- P'
ence where its measures may produce an 111
unwillingness. Fourthly, of no less value ®
is the advantage that must accrue to the 10
government from a proper dijptn fatten of the ra
bounties. No better opportunity can be 1,1
conceived for rewarding political merit of g c
all forts, for exte .ding the salutary influ
ence of power in every direaion ; and for m
throwing a decent veil over the jobs and 1,1
schemes in which the membets of all well f°
regulated governments have the immemo
rial privilege of sharing; but which in our P°
new-fangled republic, and in these cenfori- or
ous times, it will be prudent to hide from fci
the public eye. Fifthly, the last advantage f«
to be noticed, out of the infipitp that it i
its mains, is the solid ground it affords to the
11- government for enlarging its whole system
id: of taxation ; for nothing can be more just
he and reafonoble, or which is the fame thing,
;r, can be more fpeciotidy" lo called, than that
0- the government should reap where it has
e, (own; thar.it {hould gather fruit from the
in tiee it has planted; or, to (peak plainly
it and without a metaphor, that it dionld ex
cifl? every article as tad as its bounties have
y, brought it to fufficient maturity for the o
ie peration.
f- Agaiilft this reasoning one objection only
ur is forefeen by an ingenious theorist, to wit,
y, that the whole of the advantages content--
1- plated are to fall to the government -
ty whereas, the interefl: of the people is the
true object for which every public meafnre
blight to be calculated. But this he treats,
of with the greatest levity, as a pitiful qnib
c.~ He . inlifts .t?iat the diltinaion is fan
s' ciful and inadtniffible, and appeals with the
s, utmolt confidence tb various numbers of the
Gazette of the United. States, w here it has been
d detnonttrated overand over again, that the
l- gov ernment is the people and the people the
t- government i that they are pliylkally, mo,
a rally, numerically, identically, and indivifi
ie bly one and the fame; so that the more pow
er the government assumes, the more free
- dom the people enjoy ; and that every fhil
n ling Which the members of the government
;r put into their own pockets, is a Uniting put
•- into the pockets of their conditueiM*.
d . A CITIZEN.
Philadelphia, Sept. 24.
e
Fur the National Gazette.
f
Mr. FueNeAU,
e OU arc rcqneded to poblifh the indofed
11 A in your impartial Gazette. Jt will be rc
e met!!oered by the public, that Mr, Fenno, after
s publiftiing numerous pieces replete with {lander
■ and personality against Mr. Jetferfon, when Aiif-
II tides ftnt his former pub! ration to him, subjoin
- ed a note in the Gazette of the fame day 011
which it was publidied, cautioning Aridides if he
appeared again, to give his name. Now, as this
t cautious printer had without scruple publidied
t the niofr peilonai abuse of Mr. Jefferfon, with
i out betore calling for parties, I take it for grant
s' ed that publications on that fide alone arc really
, acceptablc to him.
s AR.ISTIDES.
1 Mr. FRENEAU,
IF Andidcs merits Odracifm for tis clumsy
? of Mr. Jeffeifon, what species of pun
t ifnment does an anonymous danderer merit,
who publicly avows his own wickedness ? It
. was not enough for Secure, j n Mr. Fenno's lad
t Gazette, evincing his enmity to Mr. Jefferfon,
. to detract fiom the endeavours of his friends,
but he mud exultingly add in the fame sentence,
I that be would in this "verify the injlance in
• Mr, JefferJcn had 10/ l more iy the Jolly of his
friends than by the tvickednejs of his enemies," I ' —•
Such a public avowal of wickedness on the part
. of the Junto was little to be cxptfled, but as
coming fipm one of themfclves, and compared
wiib the tenor of their united exertions to ca
lumniate Mr. Jefferfon, the public, it is prefu
mcd will be well dilpofed to give it their full
credence. 7 here is another trait in the last
publication "which didinguifhesitfrom the others,
descending from die dignity ot a public accuser
and didaiisfied with the causes of dander heieto
foi e exhibited, this writer disgorges the full ve
nom of his malice in one furious essay of ca
lumny and detraaion, foinetimes ludicrous,
lonietimes serious, but always complaining or
condemning, he pursues Mr. jefferfon thto'eve
ry circtimflahce of his public life, and condemns
h»m alike in France or in America as the ma
lign diliurberof ihe rcpofe of both heroifpheres.
Ihe attempt to ridicule the philosophy and
talents of Mr. Jefferfon reminds us of the puny
iffoits of a witling boy to excite mirth, which
not being fufficient to piovoke our risibility,
cjiules no other emotion than that of contempt
and pity. But the enlightened citizens of A
merica will not readily a'ffent to the idea, that
ihat man isan enemy to the r ;hts of human
nature, or to the union & p- ofpe ltvof his coun
ttv, v.liofe public afls and wntings have already
didingtiifhed him as the great mover, and cham
pion o! the independence of his country ; the
uniform atjd zealous friend to the present union
of the States; the llrenuous advocate o a Bill of
Rightsto secure the libe,ii cs 0 f his fellow citi
zens ; die firm and able afferter of the freedom
o the blacks; the author of ihat glorious system
ol_ toleration and univerlal freedom in the rights
or con.cience cnafled into law in \ lrginia, and
to which Ihe national assembly of France
and mod ofthe philosophers in Europe have paid
their tribute of applause ; and, finally, whose
virtues and talents Ihll retain to hiin the unim
paired confidence of that great man, who, watch
mg wnh a comprehensive and equal eye over the
intereflsofan extensive community, committed
I 10 hischarge, has, with thafjiift edimate of ch
rafler for which he i< so remarkable, (e'
' this gentleman to fill an important fls.-" 'etled
government. >»on in (fog
For what cause then, or v
may be asked, are imp' . " u .at pretext
the head oHMr. )o helped i#
lo laras refpe£ s lhe f .—ln answer 10 which
that tw»p u ,p o( - cs -"He it m 3 y be obferveH*
poflibleand b > „ lo b< - answered, F„ft :'r
Cm an enquiry into public metf P
" f die F.Hi:lcfsL r Li, 1 ": ;" re '' leadHantlerous abuse of public chara&er. As a pre
text for this, the idle and hivofoui charges of
penfiohinga Gazette, of oppotitig the conftuuti
©n, and of giving difhoneU advice to
the Frrnch debt have been pioduced;
charges which it will be presently (hewn the ac
cusers themselves do not, nav cannot bel eve.—
But the trtte ground of all this calumny "scourge
has unfolded ; he in tearful teims depieeatcs
Sir. J, fferlon as the rival of Mr. Hamilton, and
the dreadful oppoferofall thole filcal meatures,
which his irrrois tell him, will fall before the
wisdom and viitue of ajefferfon Nor is i* ««
little remarkable, how Scourge and hts junto, af
ter representing Mr. Jefferfon's public chaiac
teras vicious and infamous to a degree, mourn
fully lament that he, this abandoned man, has
not afloua cd with his colleagues in office and
liarmonu- d in all their wife cndeavouis tor the
public good. contradiction: but to
iuth extremes will fljnder often An allodia
tion, under any fatnficcof principle, would De
acceptable so promote their meafuies, and even
the dncoioant union approved, of vntue with
vice, oi of wisdom with fo.ly.
And now, Mr, Fren< au, for the TRTO of
charges by this TYicjunio H Mr.
Jetfc'fon, which Ariftides vtuly thn,k> ;hat the
junto-hemielves do not and cannot believe.—
And si ft, that you >s a pensioned aietCe, a
Jcfferfon's Gazette d voted foiely to vilify ihe
inealures of government. To this charge we
were piomihd documents, and authentic piocfs,
and much was (aid about the fc m;jl es ~of family
connection preveriiiv. the pronuttiou of furtbei
evidence >.0w now; v i the cha'ge dwindles
into its origin,.l nothinc r,ef , to (, > 'niiK 'ts
ptoduc< d,RO evidtn ce r- ied upon; in' reiiu and
innuendo are iuppHed without charily o in i
cy, and we are calmly told by Catu "that
prtfuw ptivefath and cirt umjiancrs rnujt. ajjot d tut
evidence " r>ut how wi.lth feprejum: i vcfacU
and ti cumjlcticcs, or indeed an, pufun.prion
vhatever, Wv before one 01 two a id ab
solute rruths which do not depend upon pie
fump'ion ;to w;t Fi,o, that 'he National a •
zette has abounded with publication, iince its
effablifhm nt, in favour of the nir«;tu;es of go
vernment. Secondly, that even since thischaigt
of iu being petitioned, it has been ften teeming
"With publications in favour of the ipealu es ol
government under the various (i,..natures of Facl,
Civii Plain Truth, D-or. &c. U>:. Tlmd.y,
That Mr Jttfc'.'ibii has actually refufed in any
inOance to ma k a finale paiagiaph which ap
peared in th-,* foiein prints for republication in
the National woZ'tte, deciajing that he never
would, in the jemoteft manner, attempt to in
fluence the conduct or the impartiality of the
> diior of the Gazet:e • And, lafliy the fafct,
■which it is pjeiu'.iK d will b: gladly diiptoved,
if it can, namely, that 'he > ditor of the N'a.ion
al Gazette has nev.:r refuted, in a single inU .nce,
to pubiilh an Original piece n favor of the rr.ea
fu' sos government ihar has been Cent 10 hi in
for publication. rheft* a»e plain trrtls oppo
fedto mere preemption, and which, bein , for
the moll pait well known to the junto, juliify
the conclulion that hey do not ih; uxfelvt* be
lieve one tittle of this ridiculous thaige. In
deed, what idea can poflib 1 > be more abiuid
than that a azont freely open to publications,
from all parties, wh . h is hi the actual and week
ly p.-aciiceof exlitbuiik; fueh pul ua,io;is, ai d
th,-. K ditor of tn ' ich out;; .d iu publish a
fingie original piece in favor of the mcalures ot
government, is a prnfioned, pioftituted, and
JefFc/for »ian azeue.
i he tecond cha-ge, to wit, that Mr
son is an to :h< u. ion and ; ovi-mment ol
the Uniicd laic-, hast/ecn al vady utifwercd by
Anjtidcs, and finer thai a kiuhcr uncxpc&fd
publicaiion in Mr. Dunlnp't Aavrrhicr bus ap
pcarcd, which it i-"pit Tumed will not oiiiy am
ply gratify thr malicious vti'ioGry ci Scturee as
to what kind of airu-ndments Mi.
vifiied foi 10 the conOituupn of tin lmu d
Slates, tut alio laiisl) an impauial public
thai the man who charges vlr J.ff son ,ts an
encmv to the union and government of the
X nitrd States ha* n t, pieimfion 10 tiuih 01
Candor.
I he Isft tliarge, refpesKn< r tiie French
aebt-, an<l il*,V':rtK'.ce r he.'t upeiri \vh'ch*tt*is
aflerted >'r- Jeft'i rt'ou to Co ty.rers, re
quires pa • no! .ce lu <) der to
fuppt'.i t th s clia/ge, recourse ha been hail,
as Vti the filter, charge , to oircflt falfehood
and the ir.oft pa.pab.e evaiii a A
Jiou of the tri.th it ;• well known i- jual
to a fug,; i'ftioti of talfeluiod ; an<|jn tlv.<
inftancc nor oniy an important pait of Mr.
Jefferl'o.i' letter has been fuppiellc-d but
all the circujßtlauces which tela e to tile
extrait given, and which would fati'.faclo
rily explain it to the publ'c are withheld,
alrho' t!io,'e circunjifauce <oin: part of t»ie
letterfi om which the extiart is taken. It
may be lufficient perhap- b. iefty to inform
the pubi c that, the mutilated paragraph of
Mr. Jefferfon'.; letter, quoted by Catulus, re
fers to an offer made by a fpeiu Dutch
company to the Frerich court to purchase
the American debt due to tnar nation at a
e 'S lu W ii ou» of.livrei,
f q which oiti*!". wriert coriiUllltlitflted by
the French min uer to Mr. Jefferfon for his
approbation, he repiic-.i that he had no
power to approve oi disapprove ; that Mr.
Jeiferfon made the fame ant'wer to the a
o jsßt of tJie Putc'h ccH.pai y, and in li
letttfT to Coagrefs 011 the fubjeit, in
which l>e prcftimes tnat the fame agent
•would make' application to that body, lie
fißiply fugs^' B to Congreftto coniider, if
they apprehend any future danger of the
, mutuality of payment, how far it might
L adv'ual)le to traasitjr the difcotuents, a-
rising from that fbtirce, from the French
court, whose fneiidilnp we ought to culti
vate, to the brealts ot a private company of
adventuring /'peculators, who foreseeing
che poiiibk delays ot payment, had calcula
ted tiie probable lof-, and were willing to
encounter the hazard. At the lame tin:e
Mr. jefferfoii add-> 111 the next pa.ggraph,
what Ariltides giances at in his former pub
icatiou, and what Catuius and his aiioci
ates Have purposely fupprefled, to wit —
' that in his opinion tiie honor and credil
of tiie United btates may be preserved i:.vi
olate.' and then he proceeds •' to fuggell
tiie mode and give the advice, by which tht
French debt may be discharged withoul
JiUouiii or lof. io that nation, and the lti
jjiliatlous ot tlie United States be complice
witi] lo all its creditor?."
l htle are t:ie p.'aitj and Ample fafri
which relate to tht:. tortured letter and it:
mucii abtffcd author, perhaps in no al
liance ot Mr. jeiierion's public conduct ha
lie more juiny appreciated the duly of;
->übnc iiii)titer, 01 more Iripp.ly comb net
L u ; t ' 1 tJi e comcientio j a:id moral erne o
I'Ujlic a.id private integrity. It may per
i..ps be proper to add, that this info, ma
ciou ii g,,e.i from an extract ofthelann
letter quoted by Catuiu-, taken by oi.e übi
,u •' niemti. r or the Cougrefs. to whom i
was aud. cii.d': its authenticity therefon
-a,i,;oc be dupiited, and may be proved b;
i reference o t.ie tiie- o? uo.igi'vfs in tt,<
u.j.cc o, tne Secretary or State.
jii 'tt.des w.li now, Mr t rene.iu. tak<
His unal .taveoi ' An American" "Catuius, 1
'•'Hi ' icou-gc," Will till.; il.lgle Kii.J.k,
;" J - Wl "' t «or the lake o! d iguife„ aid the
t>et-er Co divert the li.ifpic.oii ol tu public
iioni -.her ical au.hor aad -ii:t gatoroi men
Laiuuiiiie.s be mad the curta.ii, they nitrlci
?'■)' ''fa 'atu.c , and alliinic a vartetyof ano
nymous natives, it would be well lor tlieiti
lUjla. lo a, rr tile r fjuleiiet. of"ltyie, a tc
itji'ii .11 an obJcrvant ieadiT, with foreground,
:oU*>ohyjpcakmg, loi luppoling that there is
nay -in..j, mat:iially variant, in the la. guagc
or expi ciiio:, of'ti.e 1 KlO. Merely n, pi
iy to tiie fagaciou ftirnrfes of Sccurgc, that
Mi. je.i'erlon is the Frie-id and patron oi
Aridities, it is dec aretl that this writer is
not known to tiia. gentleman, and never
iiad any conii'eclipn oi correfpo,it,!ence witli
hmi whatever,; his motives are therefore
cheerfully Submitted to a candid public,
indifferent to the opinion oi an incendiary
junto, whole profered objeti sec-ms to be
to damn the reputation of a good man,
without regard to the means by which they
alter it.
ARISTIDES.
Philadelphia, Sept.
PHILADELPHIA.
September 26, 179:.
The waste of nations in the present, as
wt II as in part age% Teems to be the pride of
monarchy. In ancient Mexico, ulien the
court found it nxrjfiiry to declare war, the
priells made a lpWiftin pro 1 unit 011 by
fo'ind of trumpet, that the gods of the nation
were in a/ant of blood. —Altho' tills p ece of
formality h not a. ; hia I 'trpra. I lift<l 11 Knrope,
the conduct of the combined monarc/ts points
thtin out as progressing 111 the t. ue/pirit of
the ancient Mexican Indians Tne more
we consider the priffent prev ailing govern?
mental fyliem of > uropt, the more we lliail
be c.onv tjct ti 'hat joy:. Tv, or the Arm iia>
tio.i of haedtta>y kings, could r,n!v be pro
per, or tolerao e. lor man m h tfiivagejfate.
In proportion a be emerge from rm boy
ish :iateinto pol't'cal manln.od, a id bei'in
to acquire confides? in his rational paw
ei , Ih bfteme . more and mo.'e a leg flaror
to iii. .-I , ir, at fnoft. requires'to be con
duc.cd by the gentle perfua.'ive hand of a
republic, rather than driven be.idlong, a ;
lormei ly, by the pitch-fork of an inexora
ble tyrant.
' Th? n ifler-rfamed gentlemen are'tflefVed
managers of the fto k to b? employed in
t'f'.abl hing the manufactorie of maple fu-
and p:ita(h, and in promoting BiTiicul
tir.il improvement in Northampton toun
ty, in PenflfyWanis. viz. Timothy P cker
ing, prelident j Henry Dri.iker, treasurer ;
Sani'iel Pleafants. Samuel Hodgdon, and
SamneiM. Fox, fccretaries.
The following curious cafe was referred
by one of the criminal tribunals in France,
on che 2 ,d July lalutothe national afl'enibiv:
a woman, two months gone with child, had
run some melted lead into her husband's
ear, Who Snftantly exp red. The culprit
made the niolf ample confeffion, and ex
culed herfelf by laying, that '■ she loved her
liufband tenderly, but that flie could not
reliit the inclinations of a w oman in her
situation.* The crinVtial tribunal hail
consulted the faculty on this point, who
unanimously declared, that "the longings
of a woman with child mvht be such as to
induce her to commit (o horrible a deed
without her own viliticn " —The ailcuibly
were requelled to direct how to proceed
i i this bulinefs.
A veflel from Bayonne (arrived here)
brings accounts that the Spauiards were
arming in all their ports.
The Creek Indiana continue still pcatfea
ble (with but will on no terms
content to the running of the ftn?s between
them and that (late agreeably, to the treaty
On Wednesday last arrived here a fliip
from Holland, with 130 Dutch paflengers.
Aiiother vt flel with paii'engers from the
fa.iie place is daily expected*
From the most authentic F.uropean in
formation, the invasion of Fiance was to
commence about the firft of September.
The combined armies to be formed into
three diviiions ; the firft to divert marshal
Luckner, the second to watch the motions
of M. de la Fayette, and the third to ad
vance to the capture of Paris, which, it is
ndded, the despotic armies mere determined to
be poflelfed of on or about the 20U1 of Oc
tober.
1 he French national aflembly have ta
ken an alarm at the equipment of a consi
derable Fnglifli squadron at Portsmouth ;
in Confequ,ence of which a motion was a
dopred in the aflembly on the 26th of July,
tor immediately arming 36 (hips of war, to
prevent any surprize by (ea. It Was tan.
jeflured the Fnglifh court had a design up
on the iflrs of France and Bourbon in the
Indian ocean, as intermediate harbours for
their Hipping, and the pofTeflTon of which
would greatly contribute to the preserva
tion ef tliijir acqui fit ions in ludia.
It does sot appear from the proceedings
of the national' aflembly, that the deth'rb'ning
the king of F: aiice was an object seriously
contemplated in rhe councils of the nation.
I nat am' several other violent proportions
of a finvlar nature were, indeed, made,
but dif approved of by the cooler part of the
aflembly, a projecE pregnant with danger
to the real intere'Vsof France.
T he circle of Frantoma in Germany, when
applied to for a juiKtidn of its force" in the
jenerai combination against the liberties
;if;> ranee. gave nearly the fame answer
ivth the court of Denmark, upon a limi
lar requisition ; and which ought to have
seen the leading ; riuciple with the combi
ned power ; that they, are not mttrtjled in the
war againjl France.
fipprejfiai t caches mifdom toman It mutt
:;ve pi. a: j e to even friend of republitan
ilin and freedom to.observe the proceedings
the rcprc/entatives cj the people in Ireland.—
1" roirt what rhey and che.r conflituents aElu
\tuyfeei, they take part in the principles that
hive emancipated France, againu the ty
ranny and partial reftriflions of a nation
that Ha; long (Jefuitically) declared itfelf
;he f eeft in bur ope. From the example
or England it is evi rnt that a nation may
be brought to fnppofe itfelf perfectly free,
iv.thout enjoying an atom <J rational or equal
liberty.
Late accounts from Europe inform that
ltmeni'e Warlike preparations were carry
ng on at Conftautinople, by the Turks, for
the purpose of invading Hungary. The
pretext is, to reimburse tliemnelves for the
jreat expence they were put to in their lalV
war with Rnflia, by the late emperor join
ing that power againlt them. One hundred
thouland Turks.it wa ; confidently said by
the French at Constantinople, were to
march into Hungary-—-"whicft could not o
therwise than in a great mealUre, if not to
ully, prevent rhe deligus of the king of
Hungary againlt the new government of
France.
Perhaps ( fays a correspondent) there never
were people more •completely duprd than the
trench whom 1790 and 1 91 caine-ovcr, upon
[•<;! tain (tt-lulory reprellniations, to lettle in the
trattof country, between the Scioto and Ohio
rivers. Owing to their Cdfy crcdulity and that
Romantic Ipitit for whic . the French arc noted
beyond any other nation in the universe, they
Lti tn. nds <tnd coujitrv to feat th.mfelves in a
Ipot, which tho'painted to them in the colours
ot a teir,-{trial paradile, piovcs at present little
bi'ttei th.nl a howliug wildernets, where they
are evitry moment cxpofed to the scalping knife
[> the lavage. 11 is teni rkable that the narrative
lent to I'Kince lonre years ago, descriptive of the
toil, productions, aiid climate of ihs count, y fi
luiii d along th<? Scioto, V hio, and Lake Erie
wraswiiitcn by a man (H'ecloi St. Jean de Cre
v. c.X'urj who' never tuw the Ohio nor any part
ot the lands he so particularly describes in that
narrative, he even relates an interview with ge
neral Bullet on the Ohio river, which never ex
ifled, except 111 ima ination. The map of the
country, itileitedin the Scioto company's pam
phlet is enchanting, being touched off in the
moll ciptiva irig colours ; and if a colony could
live upon a map, the matter would, indeed, have
been well enough. Next to dil'putcj, in Eu
rope, on the (uhjef) of teligion, nothing has con
tribuied to people America more than that
romariiic spirit artfully piopagated ainongd the
h uiopean- by fanciful men, lor interrjtcd purpo
fts, and which ha? led tlioufands here, upon a
supposition of enjoying indolence and cafe, when
truth and enquiry ought to have infoimed them
that there is no country where the nerVei of
Hlength are more in demand to piocate a living
than 111 the new countries of America, where all
is frefb si cm the hand ot nature, and frequently
the veiy tools neceflaiy to build a cabin aie to-k
mad, before a fhefKr'oan be had iiom the un
pityingflorin. •
On the 31 ft of Augufl was held a meeting
of a latgc number ot inhabitants of the county
of Otlego, in the Slate of New-York, wherein
ti veral retolunons- werepaffed, tendingto jutii
fy the election ot governor Clinton, and fligma
tirng the opposition as dcfiuning to cx-cite in-
furte&ioris in the lute, \fy their strenuous ffnc3ei*
votirs to promote an appeal to the for
redreli of the fuppoled injury rrceived from the
decision of the majority of Canvaflrrs. The
lisih rel'olution is pointedly feverc upon judge
CoOper, the firfl iriagiftrate of the country, afl'ei t
wijj him to be " the sole cause of all the mifebief
lubliOingin the county, and a 9 such that he
to be conftdeted an obje&of contempt bv
all friends to good government " &c.
One of the most remarkable chara<Venr
tics of the French revolution is the facility
witll which any of their national projects aii
begun and ended. The proceedings on the
20th of June are an instance ; the very re
cital of which is fuificient to make the fub
je£b of another power tremble. N'otwith-
Itanding that terrible cene, however, Pari*
is again quiet, and every rhiirgfeetm to be
reluming its naturai Girder. The influence
of national character is, nodoubr, the pr;n
cipal cause. Be it remembered, however,
that the criminal excelits of fnch men as
Pethton, Mertin, Saiiterre, and Si.
ought not to escape unpunished, altho' ihe
extreme malignity of their defigus has de
feated i own purpose. Ity'd Gaz.j
London prints by the (hip George Bar
clay, are down to the nth of'Augalt. By
the tetlor of these accounts matters are go
ing an well in France, the armies niitrterous
and plentifully supplied, the fp.i it of the
nation at the highest pitch of clevaiion,
ant) its forces now a&uilly in the field ful
ly convpetent to repel the diabolical efforts
of the German tyrants —The account of
the death of capt. John Paul Jones are con
firmed j and it is particularly itient o'ned in
London paper's, that the American mini Her
at Paris used his endeavours that the fune
ral fhauld be private, inflead of puflic,
as afterwards decided by the national as
sembly. It is added.that every man of public
note accepted the invitation to the funeral
of Jones, as one of the champion" of Ame
rican Liberty, except the mini Her from the
United Slates, who declined the invita on,
Tue popular turn il: at Paris on the 20th
of June were bad enough ; but there is ho
need ofmagnifying them by fictitious re
ports. That attempt* were made on the
day above nientionedto poignard the king,
is not true. It is certain, however, that a
scene was acted at the Thuilleries, which
Would have dilgraced lavages, and wh ch
ought to have been pun shed in a most ex
emplary manner. Leyd Gaz.
I'he theatre in Southwark is to be agaitl
opened this evening, with the addition of
several new aifors from the theatres of
London, Bach, and Dublin.
By the latelt accounts from Cape Fran
cois, a skirmish took place the latter entl of
August, between the regular troOps and
the negroes, on the plains. Ihe pifjt of
pac Scation, notwithltanding, seemed ge
nerally to prevail throughout. the iftand,
owing, it was thought, to the want of am
munition among the ne, roes, a:, the SpanU
ardo had ceased to ftipply them, as hereto
fore. Trade was beginning to revive;
the American veilels finding a constant de
mand for their cargoes, and a tolerable
return.
Great difconterits are said to prevail a
gainst the English government in the wind
ward islands, on account of Tome new com
mercial regulations. Tiiofe illands. it is
certa ; n, liave univerfalTy taken ltrung re
ioluLiutis against several meaAires to be en
forced by the mother country, fitiflar to
those «hich pt txccled the American war,
and at length cauled afeparation.
Nicholas Gibr.an and JntwiiaJt Smith, Ffqrs. !
have been chofetitwo of the rrprefentatives
in the Congress of the United i tales,
from the slate of NeW-hampfhire.
PRICE of STOCKS.
G Per cents (interest iff) - as\f.
3 Per cents (ditto) - i if.
Deferred - - 13/6. lj/^.
Shares Bank of United States, 4■) fir, tt.
do. Korth-Atnerica, 30
do. Kew-York, 3j
do. Malfachufetts, 30
ERRATUM
In the National Gazette of Sept. ty, id
the piece (igned an Independent Farmer, line
from the beginning, for voted ty three j>t >Jbns h
read voted by thrjeperjpvi.
*»* Favours from Correfpondtttts h-rfv?
excluded several co umns of interesting in*
tell genee from this day's wTliclj
shall appear in our neitt.
METEOROIjOGICAL ObSERVATtOXS t
September,. I c) 2. •
D H.I Bar. I Thtr. m*<L ,
IVedneJday, 19. 7 30. o 5s I N J" '
'do'. £;;•
Thursday, ao. 7 JO. I 47
s 30. 1 }■ >
'V~ j 1 - Pazr.
Frtdtrf, a.- J 30. 3 4a N V V. hjT
.. ;■ / —-J -i' 3 a-o. Fa i
vT"7T-—4 3 °—' - <,H do " d °- '
Wfl " 2 - I so. j —sTw.7S£«
7TI 3 ° : ' 75 f l "' do
tZS ~ 6.- j do. <//-*
ut/ ay ' * s ' I 3°- cs9 is. w.ejoud?
2 t°- 0 is 1 E. Fau,POETICS.
% # It is averted in Mr. RufTel's (ttnfton) Co-
I urn Irian Ctntincl of Sept. \l. (and copied into M -
Fence's Gazette of tbeUnited States-Qf laii Satur
day u tiie Clerj!} of" tait counrry arc con
ftantlv vilified, a Religion ridiculed through the
medium of the National Gazette*" Ihe author ol
the aflertion is requeued to produce one or mo -
palTages from the National Ga/.eue to support hi l
charge, otherwise, »vc shall conclude it only a dir\
attempt-to prevent the circulation of the Nationm
Gazette in tbe Eajiern States :— But further,
IF of Religion I have made a sport
Then why not cite me to the Pifoopi court ?—
Fair to the world let every page be let
.A»d proyc yopr charge from National Gazette,
What if this heart no narrow notions bind,
Its pure good will extends to all mankind—
Suppose I ask no portion from your feaft
Nor'ride to heaven behind your parish priest,
Because I wear not Fenno's Sunday face,
Muli I for that be loaded with disgrace ?
*The tjme has been—the time, I fear, is now
Whqn holy phrenzy would eredl her brow,
Round some poor wight with painted devils mef
And worse than S ; rr.itbfeld blaze thro' every
But wholesome laws prevent such horiid fccnes :
No more afraid of deacons or of deans
In this new world our joyful hymn we fiflg
Tbat even a Dijbop is a bartnltfi tb ivg>
Sept. 25.
ADDRESS
To the People of Ireland, by Mr. Sinclair 01
tbe Fourteenth of Julj last»
u TT7"E, the volunteers and other inhabitants
■VV of the town and neighbourhood oi
Belf-aft, aifembled to Commemorate ibis great day
embrace with earneftnels this opportunity whicr
it aflords, at once to express our zeal and aiTeftior
lor the cause of liberty in France, and our undif
guiled opinions on fubjs&s of the last importance
to 0 jr native land.
" Trained from our infancy in a love of free
dom, and an abhorrence of tyranny, we congra
tulate our brethren of France, and ourselves, that
the Infamous cor Ipi racy of Haves and defpors,
aga'rtft the happineft and glory of that admired
and refpe&eu nation, and againlt the common
Right of Man, has hitherto proved abortive.
tc fixing our view fteftdily on the great princi
ple <lf Gallic emancipation, we will not be divert
ed from that magnificent objett by the accident
al tumults oi momentary ebullitions of popular fu
ry. < We will not estimate the wisdom of her le
gislators by the traufports of a mob j nor the spi
rit bf hef armies by the cowardice of a jegiment ]
nor the patriotism of the people by the treachery
of individuals j nor the julVice of her cause by the
numSer of her en/mies. W? judge with othej
views and on other principles—we fee, with ad
miration, France extending the land-marks o!
human knowledge in she great art 0# gove rnmcnt,
and operiirig to the world new (yftenu of policy and
ofjxiftice. We fee her renounce all wars on the
principle of conquest. We fee her propole an
universal brotherhood ind an eternal peace among
the natioris. V/e fee her even now, when forced
into arms andbloodlhed by theUnjuft and unprin<
cipled machinations of her en.mies, feparatinjr,
a3 far as poHibie, the innocent fu;bj*-& from tlif
guilty despot j refpe&ing amidll the horrors of
wai, the pcoperty of individuals j and exempting
fropi interruption the peaceful iratho of (he mer
chant, lc is from vievys ke theie that we rtti
mate that ftjpendous event, the Revolution,
which we this day commemorate j not fiom ac
cidental irregularities, which, while we condemn
them, we are compelled to f>'ty, as feeling that
thev Ipring not merely from a fpirlt of licentiouf
jiefs, bat from a sense of injury working on a san
guine people, ftiil galled with the recolle&ion ol
recent tyranny andmpprefiaoh, and jealous of lib
erty, J)u v c juit recovered, and lcartely \et secure.
Such are our fenument& on the lubjedl ol
the FreJch revolution s we come now to the '-tale
of our own country,
il ImpfefTed as w; arc with a deep sense of the
excel.ence *rou+ conftituti >n, as it exists in theo
ry; we 1 j >:*e tim we are not, -like our brethren
in Franly, redoctd lo the hard oecelTity cf tearing
ud invert rate al?ufe by the roots, even where util
ity Vo;inteimixed as not to admit of fe t)ara
tion. Ours is an eafler and a less unpleafitfg
task ;to reitjo c with a steady and a terrtperate
rciolucion the abuses which the lapse of many
years irhrtention and" fupin-enefs in a great body
of the people,-«wd inwcmit f, ii" vigUance in cheii
rulers t- ' ' 'id Lhein oi their rights,
hav _ tp'yvefgr w and to defoi m that bean
t'.«ui ly.item of government, Co'admirably fuiteu tii
our fitt ation, our fiabjta, and our wishes. We
have nor to i/jriovatb but to refh<re. The jolt
prerogative of our monarch we N and Wil,
maintain.*—The power of the peen
We with not't'o invade- We know ■ that in the
exercile of both, abufrs have grown up. j but w<
also know that thofc abuses vArill at once be, cor
rei\ed, so as neve'r again to recur, by refloring tt
us, the people, what we, Tor ourfrl ves_, demand a 1
our righ?, or due weight and influence in that es
tate, which is our property, the leprefentation cl
. the people in pari ament.
. ii Thoioughly impief|ed with the unjust anc
fulnous inequality of that repjefentation, with t
consequent corruption which pervades all ranks ii:
the Hate 5 with che deftruftion of the morals, tin
facrifice of the'Commercej and the hourly immi
nent danger to the libeity'ot our country, we will
)nflex-ibl> perlevere in th,q pursuit of that greai
remedy for all our political evils a parliamentarj
reform ; a refbrrt> temperate, equal and ju(t
which lhall restore lustre to the crown, dignity to
the peerage, and their due weight and influence ti
the people of Ireland.
" But while we thus stats our sentiments on
the tubjea of teform.we feel it incumbent on u;
to declare, as we do now, that no reform, werr
even such attainable, would answer our idtai cl
utility or jullice, which ihomd not equally include
all fcfts and denominations ol lfiftimen. We re
probatcand abhdr the idea,that political inequali.
flusuld tefult from opinions | and ws
ifipuld be afliamed, at the moment we are reeking
Tor liberty ourlelves, to acquTfcfce. in any iyftem
founded on the llavery of others.
" We have now declared our sentiments to the
.vorjd. In declaring them we spurn, with equa.
iifjain, restraint whether proceeding from a mob
»r a monarch j from a riot or a proclamation.
*Ve look with a mixture of abomination and con-
on the transitions which, on the last an
ivcrfary of the French Revolution, degraded the
national character of England } when neither the
.earning, the piety, the public spirit, nor the pri
vate virrue of a Ijr1 j r 1 estl y could protect nim from
the faiury of the vilest of an ignorant and a
oijottej rabble, before whom the religion of the
country was diih >noured, the name of the Sove
reign insulted, and all law 8c order levelled in the
duit, to the disgrace, noc less of the integrity of
'he magistrates who were tiie fomenters, than of
ihe spirit of the pcopl®, who were timid wirnelT'i
of the ravage and destruction. As little should
we re I peel any attempt, under colour of authority,
to fetcerdo.vn our minJs or prevent ihe publica
tion of our grievances, and our determination to
seek redicfs. In the puifuit of ref'oim, the great
measure indispensable to the freedom, the hip
/•njefs, and the glor/ of our country, we will iu
flexibl) perfevtre, aud fur its attainment we rely
with confidence on the steadiness, the public spi
rit, and the zealous co-operation of our country
men.
i mmm\
HALIFAX, (N. C.) September iii
Extracl of a letter from the Territory of the United
States Joutb of the Ohio, of a lute date.
" The Cherokee apd Creek Indians have been
continually through the whole fdmiher commit
ting hpftiiitie.s and depredations on the fettle
men'ts of Cuinb^rla. l . J—-a white arid three
children Were purcfoafed in the m6,nth of July, by
a trader iff the Creel: nation, for 14061b. or deer
llcins, aud brought to Khdxviflc. S'.if huo been
taken from a itutioa near Bleclfoe's biik, on
Cumberland, where four white mfcn vVerf killed
and several persons taken prifoneu, who may no:
all be fortunate enough to be, ranformed frorn tor
ture and Indian barbarity. Several pe.Cons were
killed and wounded in the months of June and
July,, and a great number of horses raken oft
from the very vicinity of NafliviUe. An eX;>cn
five treaty was held about twelve months ago with
the Cherokees, and large presents difmbuted a
mong the towns and chiefs ; and they fetm to
adopt this policy to make another treaty neceila
ry, which will teiminate of course in another
douceur. Treaties are convenient things for the
Plenipoeson both lides, but nor quite so conveni
ent to an exhaufl d treafurv, where they
have made a heavy article in Mr* H——'s account
of appropriations and expenditures. There is
certainly forne great deleft in the policy
of the United States with refpedt to these Indians :
the Executive of this country has eltablifhed the
character of firmneis and activity in its admini
ft ration j yet in refpe£t to the Indians all is fee
blenefs—they maraud and murder with impunity.
It is clear that this kind of mongrel government,
between a state 8c a colony does not poifefs iulfici
ent energy for its-own defence —it is indeed a
European exotic and mud languilh in the United
States—they are obliged to depend on Congief
lloual nie a flirts for protection, and the Indians
.lave lott all rcverence for the National Govern
ment. and,view thfir languid ceremonious policy,
as a coulin german to Gen. St. Clair's military
tatties.*'
BOOKS,
Printed and fold by
M A TI I E W £A R EY,
No. üB, Market-Street, Philadelphia.
i Am'can Muteum, from its commencement,
in January. 1787, to Jttflf i? 9&, tr eleven 'volumes
Price, neatly bound and .Uttered, Seventeen dollars
and three fifths. r
This ivork which is now conducted on an im
proved plan i containing the left pieces publifhedfor
and again!} the . proceedings of government, will be
found, to contain at leaf qs great a variety of poli
tical, 1 agricultural, andtnijeiitaneeus ejjays, as any
ttyer publifljed in America. Perhaps in no one iuork
are Jo many valuable documents rtJpfflWg the hijio
,y of this country, collefled together. His excel
lenty the PrefidM of the United States, has de
clared of it 1 that a more ufeful literary plan
has never been undertaken in America, nor one
more deserving of public encouragement.'* 'The
fubje'ription is two dollars and a half per annum,
titrflen e>i in the country who wish tobefupphec
tyith this ivorkf are. rtquejied to give comir.ijfrjn to
friends in the city to fubjerwe Jor and receive if.
2. Smith's letter* to married ivomeu % on nursing
and the Management of children. "We *eeommer.ii
these letters to'theperufal bf th'fe to ivhom tb<y a-e
particularly addttfjed.' ?Ar>nthy Review. AV. 3k,
Pajc 101 • Price biund fve eighths of a dollar.
Duncan s elements of Ugic. three fourths of a
do har.
4. Beauties of Yielding* 50 cents.
5. beauties of £tair t 50 cents.
6. Ladies' frwcket Library—containing : —Mifs
Morels B])*y* j Greg ry's Legacy j Lady Pen
tungtons' aavice \ Marehionejs (f Lambert's a<i
vice j ,Swft x s later to a newly married ad,
Mrs. Chapoue on command of temper j More sfa
bits for the ladies----P rice tf6»
7. Smith's Hiitory of New-Vork. Price a doI
lar and a quarter.
.7, Elements of Moral Science, by James Beat
tie, 1.1.d. profrj/or of moralphilojophy and logu
in the MaVifhal College, Aberdeen—P rice thrc.
fourths of a dollar. Of this book the Crit 'udl Re
■viewers ( vol. 69. p. bz&J J<*y •' haife seen
nothing ort these fubjtfls more pcrfpicu
us, or more genera ly ufeful.
9. Beauties of Voauy, Price four fifths of a
dollar.
10. Blair's Sermons,-- Vrice two dollars.
11. Trcatife on the importance nj reli
gious opinions. Price four fifths cf a dollar.
iz Examination of the observations of .Lord Shej -
field on American Commerce. Price, on very fine
paper, five eightvs of a dollar.
13. The Coitf itutions of the Jeveral United » tate<,
with the federal Conjlitutiony Price fii?e
t of u dollar•
14 M'Fingal, Price three eighths of a dollar.
15. American Jcit Book, three fifths of a
dollar.
16. Garden isf the Soul, half a dollar.
17. The Douay Truncation of the <vulgate Bi
ble, in quarto. Price, e egantly bound and lettered,
50/2 —-plain, fix dollars
Said Carey has for fale y a large ajfortment of
bockst European as ivell as American editions.
ivhich he ivill difpoft of on (he mojl reajofiabie terms,
Country gentlemen, uho favor him with commands,
mly depend upon being Jupplied in the mofl J'atisfac
tory manner. A iberal allowance to fit b as put
chafe quantities for public libraries, or to Jell again.
May 17. 6m.ia.w.
Society for eJfubUJhing ufefal Manufactures.
NOTICE is hereby given to the holders ol
.'tockii\the /'aid society, that the following
arrangement has been made by the Deputy Go
vernor and Directors thereof, by a resolution o
the eighteenth day of May* 1792.
Tne ftCond initaiirient foi tne payment of (hare:
ifi the stock of this society, may be made in tht
following manner, viz.
The amount of the ("aid second instalment, be
ing 20 13- 100 dollar* each fhaie, may be paid ir
three payments, on condition that tbe lawful in
terelt of 7 per cent, per annum, be calculatec
and paid with each proportionate part of the faic
payment, that is to fay, on or before the thir
trenth day of August next, the fuoi of 6 71-100
with the addition of 12 cents, being the interef
of one bio nth on 20 13-100 dollars—on or be
t'oTe. the j 3;ti of September next, the sum of <
ii-100 dollars, with the addition of S cents, be
ng the intereit for one momh on 13 42-100 dol
ars—and on or before the 13th of October next,
tjie sum of 6 71-J6O dollars, with the addition o
4 cents, being the intereit oil the lame si r on<
month. The said payments are to be maoc at th>
following places, viz. In the city of Philadelphia
at the bank of the United States —at New-Brunt
wick, in New-Jcrfey, to John liayard, or Joh<
Neilfon. Rf*4is —and in the city of New-York, a
the bank of New-York, 01 cithtr of the lan
places, which may be moll convenient to th
(lock' holders.
By oider of the direction,
JAMES GRIFFITHS, Cle.k.
j ufjr fc'4. tf«
FOR SALE,
Aro'l't 100,000 acres of Land, lyihg nen
Writedown, in the (tdte of New-York, 01
the worth fide of tile Mohawk river, adjoirtini
Nobleborough, and will ue fold either in parcei
or together, as may suit the purchasers.
I N. B. The above tratt of land is of the flr(
quality in the state, chiefly timbered with bead
and maple, well watered, and contains many mil
feats. The peculiar advantages of tills tract, situ
ated within a few miles of Whiteftown (whicl
contains upwards of five thousand inhabitants
with an easy and convenient water carriage t<
Schenectady, Albany, and New-York, make ic ai
object for any persons inclined to fettle if, and ren
der it an extremelv purchal'e foi
persons inclined to realize their rnOney in land o
an encreafing va'.ue. The whole tradt 01 any par
of ir, will be fold very low for cash, o* - for par
caftli, and the remaining payments at distant peii
pds. Enquire at No. 229 Queen-street, near tin
Flv-maiket New York.
July 19.
Terres a Vendre
Da»s un pat's bien piuple',-—
S AVOI.R, f-ixante cinq mille, trots cens, foix
ante et quatoizc. Acres, •en une seals piecrj
dans Te canton Ie mieux people de la Caroline Me
'idioHale, le D'nTi i£V de Ninety-Six* Ces terre
font fitufces dans une'cdntrce'agfeable; et falwbre
;u les fievres font inconnues j a environ vingt lieue
ie Cotombie, la 'Capitale, et contigues ala villi
ie Cambridge, 6u il y a College, et Cour fuperi
fcurev A environ douze lieues, il y a bonne navi
Eat.ion ; et ii eft tres probable, que 6%np qoelqni
iems on rendra navigable le Gra'nu. Saiyde, nvicri
|ui arrofe les terres nieines. Elies font agteable
fnent diverlifices de coteaux et
proprei aia culture du tabac, flu cotop, flu m.u -
et du petit grain jet dont une propor;ion conliJer
able fe peat conve: tir en praiiics ferti-es.
II n'eft |seutVetrr gueies poHible de rencontrcr lyie
[iartille piece de ferre a vendre dai>s au<?un autre
desEtats Unis et pour les conditions de I'achat,
on les rendra tres commodes.
S'infornier a i'inipiiiiicrie de la Gazette Na
lionale. Sep:. 5.
LANDS for SALE,
IN a wtll feitled Country. SIXTY-FIVT
THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
SEVEN'i Y FOUR ACRES Ob LAND, in one
jody, in the nroit populous part of the It ite of
South-Carolina, in tiie diltri£t of Ninety-li it
is fituateJ in a fii»e healthy climaf, tree from fever
& ague,about lixty miles from Columbia, the lea;
as government. The land is contiguous to th
u>wn of Cambridge, where are a I'en.iaary for the
nftruOion of youth, and a superior law cquit. Ii
> at prelent within thirty-five miles ofgood
avigation, wiih a probability of having the river,
' ailed the Great Salop., that flows along one li.le
f the land, made navigable. The land is
: ally divei tfi-d into fvells and vales, and i» per
fectly well calculated for the culture of tobacco,
cotton, Indian c.»rn, and small grain , a greai
pioportion ot* it may be made meado\/ground.
Theie is'hoi, -pe-.havs, such a body of lan J ., focii
«iimftanced, for in any othert f the U. Scarfs
The terms of payment will be made convenient t,
.he purchaser or purchafeis. Apply to the Prrntev.
August 29. lawtf
'Three hand fame Editions of the Laio*
of tht; United cites for- [ale at this offia
(No. 209 Market fir ect) in folio ar.d otfa
vo, either full or half ioand—N.B. The
Laws of the lajl Session, in oClavo dnly, may
be hadjejarate t frit three eighths of a dollar 1 1
SOCIETY FCR ESTABLISHING \
USEFUL MANUFACTURES.
Tv TOTICE is hereby,given to the Stockholders
of'the Society f)!, ettabliih<ng ufeful manu
lac,ores,' that the annual 1 election ror Dire&orsoi
he laid soCiety will be held at the CaurthoUle ii\
New-Ark fa the county of EiTV* on the fir flMoii-
Ja in October next, between the hour.s oftwelva
ana two in the afternoon of the lams day.
r\. MERGER, Deputy Governor.
New-Ark July, .*71111792.
JUST PUBLISHED
By E. Oswald,
( Price Eleven Pence)
FIVE LETTER S,
addrcfL-d to the
Yeomanry of the United States:
CONTAINING some Observations on the
Scheme of" Governor Duer and Mr Secreta
\ Hamilton, to eliablilh National Manofa&ures ,
,jy a FARMER. This pamphlet, so highly ?n
---rerefting at this period, may be had at the follow
ing places ; ar Mr. Oswald's Printing-Office, No
156, Market-rtreet sat No- 209, Market llreet;
at Mr. Dobfon's, 41, South Second-street; at
Mr. C.uklhanks, 51, Market-street j at Mr,
Aitk; n's, 22, Mai ket-ftreet j and at Mr. Young's
S. W. corner of Chefnut and Second-ltreets.
21.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for sale by the Printer,
JohV M'Culloc a, at No, 1 North Third-
Street, and by mo i: of .he Book-
Seller;. in tlrs cty,
(Price 3y'9)
MODERN CHIVALRY:
Containing the
Adventures of Cap,t. John Farrago,
and
Teague 0 ; Regan,
his Servant.
VOLUME 11.
By H. 11. BRACKEN RIDGE.
Quiequid agunt Homines ntjlri, Farrago libelli.
Juvena
P U 3 LIC REPORTS
from the
EXECUTIVE DF.i-ARTMENTS
[ F T H &
GovcameNt of tit Hi rSi) States
to
CONG 'ESS,
Corimeticin with the p;ejht€cvrrnnr tit and "Tid
ing ttiilh the cloje oj the Sejjion oj May, "j
THIS frotk is intended to be printed hi bnc
volume othvb, cftimatcJ to contain between
live and fix hundred pages, and will be deiivei
to fubfaibers in boards One Dollar and a
jalF.
A complete cdlleftion of the Reports into a
convenient and portable volume hasbbeeu fug-
Ecttcd to the publishers by several members of
Congre.fs and other gentlemen, and they ;«re no\/
determined to proceed on with ths work. provi
ded d competent number of itfcbfciibeis appear
LO patronize the undertaking.
Subfcnptions aie rectiv dby CIIILDS and
SWATNE, the publish ;s, No. 209 Market
ftreet, Philadelphia, and by the piirt'cipal i>ook
fellers in the United States. May 24.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
And for Sale at the Printing-Oiiice,
No. 20;, Market-Street,
and at Thomas Dobf>.f i tio jic-Storeia
Seco.id-'itreet,
Price Three - Ei skills cf a Dollar,
ADVICE
TO THE
PRIVILEGED ORDERS,
it) the
SEVERAL STATES of EUROPE,
Refutting from the ireceflity and pro
priety of a Cefteral Revolution in
Principle oPCovernrneut.'
By Jo s l 8a,5l ow, Ei'iuire.
-— ' ■ ■ —
PLANS
OF THF. CITY O. WASHINGTON.
FOR SALE BY
Mr.SSRS. iJolifji' f Young, Crukfliank, and
Carey, in this city.
Sept. 15. 6t.
George Town, June 2, 1792.
ANUMUEit ->t 'LO i"S in every lituation
wijicli m r be Llelired in the city of Walh -
be ofFsifed tor- sale, by the C&mmif
initeison Monday the Sch day Odl)b. r f
<)r,f fourth ji»rt of the purchase mon j :a
Jai.l dutiylhc rrfi.lur. in 'fv.;, equal .anual pay
vwih veaily B!> lhc wh ~e
jal unpai«i. J' -r(N {V|. GANTT,
J"'y Z S' Cieik to the CommiHionerj.
PRINTED 3 Y
CHILDS and SWAINE,
AT THEIR OFFICE N0.209, HIGH-STRUT*
KtAa FIFTH STREET,
rHJLADELFHIAf
•4 . , "v 1