Vol. I.
LONDON June t—iz.
THE speech of Mr. Chojscki, Nun
cio ot Kijovia, in the Polish Diet
oh the JCth of May, has been publilhed
at Waifaw. In the course of this animated
speech he obfervcd that ''Aullria and
Pruflia had constantly profefled, during
'the course of the present Diet, to have
favourable sentiments for them; it was
true they had formerly appropriated a
part of the territory of the republic to
themfclvss, but fati fied by these attain
ments, they had pnfhtd their ufurpaticna
r.o further—they had not attempted any
thing againfl their civil liberty, and had
not influenced their Interior Adminillra
tion—lt was not, therefore, Austria or
Prussia, but Rufiia who threatened them,
a power, who, from time immemorial haa
been the sworn enemy of Poland, and who,
I fay, openly, and withont hesitation, has
forged fetters for us, and this I will always
tna'ntain, even if I should be tbe firft vic
tim of her resentment when war shall be
declared, and that (he covers me with her
vengeance by spreading ravage and terror
over rr.y estates, situated on the Frontiers.
I (hall fay : his, because in this sacred asy
lum of the defenders of the nation, it is
nor permitted to consider of private or
personal iiiterefts—and it would be infa
mous not to k'ive all pofiinle attention to
thepublic good, and not to (hew ouesfejf
with opennefa arid intrepidity, tha defender
of the country." He then proceeded to
fl.ew the preponderance Rullia has, ami
the oppressions flhe exercised, particular
ly in 'lie frontier Palatinates: he said
"RuiTu knew t)i .' 11"* Puiifti nitiuii had
ceafea to be undet her tyranny, and that
asthey now ranged among free nations, they
would throw a new weight into the bal
ance of Europe—She knows this, and Die
is jealous of our welfare—already (he is
uraftifing 'he lame arts that she employed
formerly so fuccefsfully to trouble our
tranquility and subvert our liberty.—
Would to God my fears may not be real
ised I ti' mlJe lead the Emigrant Polan
dcrs ft. iiild serve as inltruinents of her
wicked deligns ; and that by a ilrangc
"abui'e of words, Rullia (hall lay to us in
her Manifello tbjt berfritndfb'ip for Poland
will not f 'm:i her to f-e,wtth an indifferent
eye, a change in the firm oj her government,
and the rJfu<g oj defpotijm on the ruins of li
berty ; o llher fore Jhc (Rtffia) is coming
to succour her neighbour.
" W culi! t<> God that no person may
be found in JMand, who ft,all unite with
the enemy of this country ! "
'1 he unprovoked attack of Rufiia onthe
independence and internal freedom of Po
lant-j constitutes a cafe in which it would
have well become Great Britain to have
jnterpofed her mediation. Unfortunjtely
the present minister having thought pro
per to vwfle the strength of the country,
and expose his own imbecility in a caule
jn which neither the interest nor the ho
nour of Great Br tain was at all concern
td, has rei dere- her interposition under
his management of tf.o little couuderat on
in the eyes of li,uiope for an\ .ucteJs to
be expeftcd froin it.
It will be twentv years next September,
since the Empress delivered her lafl inani
fefto, to the c'oi rt of Poland- She was
then joined by the king of x'i ifiia, «.nd the
Emprefc Dowaget Queen of Hungary.—
This triumvirate declare jointly and iepa
rately,' That the haMdetermined among
themselves, without loss of time, and witii
one accord, to take the inoftcfhdtual ano
belt combined meafurcs in order to re.
eftabliP.i tranquility and gcod order in Po
land, and as they have refpfdiytly very
considerable e aims on the poflcllionsofthe
republic, which they cannot p rmit them
selves to ex pole to the hazard of polhble
contingencies, they have therefore deter
mined' among themselves to assert these
their ancicnt rights and lawful claims,
which each of them will bi ready to juili
By P. FRENEAU: Publifkzd Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Tiikbk Dollars per annum
SATURDAY, August 25, 1793.
fy in time and place, &c. &c. &c. in con
lequenceof which they are determined to
lucure to themselves a proportionable equi
valent, by taking immediate and effe&tjal
pofTeffion -of such part of the territories as
may serve to )ix more natural and sure
bounds between her and the three powers.
&c." This as well as the kte Declara
tion is declared to be done with no otli •
view than tofecure the happiuefs of the
Republic !
RIOT AT EDINBURGH.
The llrougtft apprehensions were en
tertained that a riot would take place here
on hi:, majeftv's birth-day. An effigy of
Mr. Dmi das had been prepared, with an
intention to be burnt at the cross, by foipe
people who were difplcafed at his condud
in proposing only a gradual abolition of
the Slave Vrade, and opposing the Scot 9
Borough Reform.
The Mngiftrates underftxm ling thr:
such a measure was intended, iffiied orders
to prevent any mob from afftmbling, and
commanding all perfon3 to keep their
vaots and domcltics within doors on the
king's birth-day. But at the fame timi
they had ordered a ftu de joy, iUutr.iuati
ons, and such other demonftratiars of
public joy, as could not fail to excite (he
public curiosity to witness them. Tl»
■ynfcquence, it is easy to imagine, a
total disregard of the orders ifliieJ to
keep people at home.
An ancnymous letter, it is faiJ, was sent
io the ProvDlt, threatening to (hoot him
if he perlif.ed in opposing the burning of
•.he effigy—Whether this was the reason
we know not, but a regiment of dragoons'
was brought to town to keep the peace.
In the evening the people bccarjje riot
ous. The Magiftra.es paraded the Greets
attended by the city guard, and a party of
the 53d regiment, now quartered in the
caftlc here ---The mob increased, and the
dragoons were ordered to clear the streets,
in performing which ferviee, several peo
ple were rode down, which excited the
people to still greater outrages-
Afire was kindled, and several fentry
boX' S committed to the flames- -The riot
ast wa« then read, and about 14 people
taken prisoners, and conducted to the
castle, which restored order r ir the night,
but a spirit of discontent Hill seemed to ma
nifeft it ft If.
Friday night several people assembled
in a disorderly and tumultuous mann'er, in
New Gravel-lane Ratclitf Highway, w'tii
a fiddler playing before them, and a union
jack hoill;d upon a pole, and proceeding
into Elbow-lane, attacked the house of a
Publican, againll wijoui, it is supposed,
they had some private pique, which they
threatened to pull down and demolilh, and
which probably they would have effected,
had not a party of runners and peace of
ficers from the public office, Shadwell, ar
rived time enough to prevent any serious
mitchief. They secured about eighteen
or nineteen of the ringleaders, andbroiight
them before Jullice Bland.
In addition to the above, the following
has been transmitted to us by a corrcfpon
deut:
"Sir,
"On Monday, the king's birth day, it
was known to be the intention of many
to Ihew their dislike toDunda3, by burn
ing his effigy. Our sycophantic magis
trates, to prevent this disgrace to their
patron, and to gain 1116 favour, had three
troops of horse parading the streets by ten
in the morning. Thcsthe peaceable inof
fensive inhabitants, while going about
their lawful bunnefs, four.d themselves
under military law. At a time when there
was 110 croud in the llrect, r.or a dispositi
on to riot, the hotfe rode with great speed
and with drawn fwordu cutting and ilafh
ing on each fide to make the people rjif
perie , they even lode on the foot pave
ment. Many people could not get cut of
U»e way time enough ; one man was
trampled to death and several wounded.
One gentleman, while in custody, was cut
ou the Ihoulder fcy a dragoon. One old
man by the name of Guile, felling milk
on the foot pavement, was thrown down,
and had both his legs broken. A little
boy fitting on the pavement with his legs
on the street, had his legs and fitt jammed
to a j.liy by the horses.
"On Puefday night some people aflem
bled in George's square, to effect their pur
pose of burning the effigy of Mr. Dundas;
but they were ruterrupted, This drew to
gether a mob. The Sheriff read the riot
ast, aud, on their refufal to difperfc, he or"
dered the soldiers to fire. Four men, u
painter, a ghziw, a mason, and another,
were killed ou the spot. Many were
much wounded, feveralin the infirmary,
two of whom are thought beyond recovery.
"On Wednesday night the mob afism
bled in great numbers, again to make ano
ther endeavour to express their hatrid oi
Mr. Dundas ; and whether theMagrltiates
were tired of killing, or the soldiers ol
coming, they were allowed to effect their
purpoie without interruption. On which
they very quietly differ fed.
" I bus, Sir, five pedple have Idft their
lives, many their limbs and comfort through
life, to pixvent that, which, after all w..s
not prevented—the burning of a few rags
itufied with Uraw, under the title of the
representative of Mr. Duudas.
Edinburgh, June 3, 1792.
Nothing can give more unfeigned plea -
nire to every lover of his king und coun
try than the late gracious proclamation of
ins majfffty. Every loyal fulijeft has for
lome time anxiously expifted it. Fired
with resentment at the audaciotis writings
of feditiou3 men, he has long wished to fee
them checked in their wild career# The
veteran soldier, in particular, burns to pu
nish the infuliing language of the modern
Therjites (Paine )
Curious r.dvertije'mtnt.—ln the press, &
speedily will be publilhed,'« The iieafna
blencfs of conformity to the measures of adlniu
ijiration for the t.tne being ; in which will
be demonftratcd tiiat political difcuflion
and private judgment are absolutely incon
(iitent with the nature and end of civil
government. To which will be added,
an appendix, containing some perftiofive
confiderationi 011 the profitablcnefj of l'uch
conformity—by the Right Honorable
IVha wants me'' [Dundaj]. —Alt), jtift
published, and to be had at ihe Treafurj •
Press, yr.itis t a new political paper, eriti
tied, 7be Lie of the Day—clearly proving
to the appreherifion of the meanelt capaci
ties that liberty tends to the defliuftion of
a free people ; and that patriotism is only
treason in disguise ; with some incontro
vertible arguments to (hew that a French
Jacobin and a dissenter from tl.e present
tniniftry are fynonimous teims—To be
continued every day in the week, Sundays
not excepted, &c."
The King of Hungary, it has beert pom
potifly pretended, is not to draia his poor
lulijefts of any money to pay for his pre
cut infernal war. When his fubjefti
'>!ood is drained (as it will be unless the peo
ple have sent enough to leave their king to
Ignt his bwn battles), pray, who is to
pay the peop'e for that ?
In the present itate of advancing reason
jnd of amending philanthropy, how little
Jiftant may be the period when the world
hall not be feovirgnd by blood thir(lyd<f.
potifni, wlit 11 we fliall not hear of war any
more ? when all the different nations of
:he earth (hal) be illumined and actuated
ny good, pacific, social principles, that are
the fame! when, if any princes fliall be
so fell and so infatuated, as to outrage these
principles, and try, to kindle war, the
people on both fides fliall pioperly refuGe to
follow them, unless for the rational retali
ation of personally putting them againll
rat h other ; and for the rational exultation
life, thus to lid the world ef uioultws,
Numb. 86.
foreign, as well as forfeit to, because faith
ids and towards the hurvn
race.
1 he king of Sweden it feerts died pof-
Jelled of private treasure At the late
meeting of the Diet, one extraordinary
proportion was, to vote him a furplu, of
dtW ln Orderto enablli him t0 pay his
Benedict Arnold (better
known during the American War by the
name of one Arnold) waj admitted to a
conference with the fninifter on Tucfrhv
lalt. 1 his gentlemen, if we miflake not,
went over to the two or three
yearsaso, with a number of America
L-oyahfts, to form the settlement of New
-Jrunfwick, from which he has Litely re
turncdv . J
Genera! Arnold is p.boutAtp petition
government for a f or his
.'.lies, or to promote his *ank, and "ive
;nm adive employ, nerif Tn any fttuaiion
bentiing hu a'jiiitio6.
WHIG CLUB Ci-' ENC$^Ar).
J iefday Ijic inontuly meeting of thil
Club was iicL) at the <-rown ""idAnffior
favern, at which the Right is? n . -1, )rJ
l'etre w«i in the hair. After dinner
they commenced thri. fcftivity by co Hi
tutional Toadl. The'.caho c ' Kr. Fox
in particular, was drank v itli the warnieil
and moil general enthusiasm.
Mr. Fox laid, he could not pass ov.r
the very marked compliment which they
had pud to hiia without returning his
grateful thanks. He need not tell tho
company what they all of late
the queflion oHt ;form in the rcpreUnta
tion of the people h id been .revived.
However warmly he wilhfcd for a mo.
aerate reform in the fyflem of our ree>re
lentation, he did not agree that under ?.l!
the obvious circumstances of the day, the
prefertt was the proper season for the agi.
tation of the queflion-.-but being agitated,
he could not withhold from it his zealous
support.
After this, many diflinguifhed cluvac*
ters were drank to with gratitude fjr their
icrvices and attachment to the cause of
the Conflitution.
The next meeting was appointed fur
the 6th of November next, on which day
George Byng, Esq. will be in the chair,
A not occurred last night in Jcrmyn
ilreet. The occasion of it was a drunken
j renchman, at a tavern, the
neighbourhood by calling out L\i:rti, JA
fcrtc, Lii Ira ! He was turned o<it cf the
tavern, and at Lit ran off hath.fa. The
tumult that this circumstance ocenlioncd,
was such as to call for the interference of
the Majjiftrates, and the afliflaace of the
con (tables.
lom i ame's madness is a more serious
thing than was firfl imagined, for it has in
citeev.ry one of the miniftera with*
deadly melancholy.
-1 he minister is dreadfully al"rmed lelt
Mr. Paine fhotikl write ft: J, a letter to
! ■im as he has addrefTed to Mr. Secretary
JJun.ias ; we can easily conceive that if
•e does, Mr. Pitt will nut know how to
answer it !
Vv e cannot wonder that a number of men
should have calleu l*homcs Paine mad ;
for certainly to attempt the r moval of
abuses in government, after such in age of
duration, npp ared the work of no coifi
mon capacity.
Any man is said to be mad who t?ILs
in a language above the capacities ami
camprthenGon of his heafera. When,
therefore, Mr. Paine undertook to pull
down the despotism of wicked tiatefftien,
and oxaJtthe poor to a level with the coir -
fortable of their fellow creatures, we do
n< t wonder he fiiould be dtewed btfidc
himfelf.
Itisamcft extraordinary thing, that
one reputed madman should bring the peo
pl: of a whole nation to their real fenfeS.foht: Bull is i'o pit a fid with Thomas
Paiue's madness, that he (wears there is
110 part of his house in which he .'liall not be
as welcome as a King'.
Tom Paine has a. curfcd itch for writing
to what arc called great people ; for
which we fliall not be furj)tifed if this
class of perfous get out of town as fait as
poflible.
On the l;th day of May, M Chalons,
the French Amoaffador at the Court of
Portugal, deliveredto M. Pinto, the Portu
guese Minillei", the declaration of war by
the French nation againfl the king of
.Hungary and Boh. mia. The minuter
returned for anfvver, that his court wilhed
well to the tranquility of the French nati
on, and that ps the king of Hungary, and
that he was authorised toafTure the French
Ambaflador of the mod Uriel neutrality
on the part of Portugal.
Letters from Paris mention that the
Icing's guard iudifbanded, and that a royal
guard is to be forthwith ellablilhed by law.
Till such time as this guard is formed the
national guard of P..ris is to perform the
duties about the king's person—the mirii
niller of jullice hat; informed the national
aflembly that sentence of (Jeath waj pasTed
on the afTafiins of Gen Dillon.
The national aflembly have pasTed a
moll pointed decree again ft Privateering—
i. that no commission of Marque and Re
prifal should beg<anted. 2. That no vefTel
armed merely for its own defence, should
be permitted to capture ar.y vefTel of the
enemy, unless they were provoked to it
by conflraint. 3. That no (hip of the en
emy should be taken unlets armed for war.
4. Corsairs taken by the armed fliips of the
nation fliall be enquired into by the tri
bunal of the diftridt into which they arc
carried, and all Frenchmen found on board,
as ::£live partisans, fliall be punished with
death The fubje&3 of the power at war
IhdU be sent to piifon and he ftibj-dts of
foreign powers shall be dealt with accord
irigto the arrangements tobeagreedoll with
such powers, and in thj mean time
that they shall be confined in prison.
5 AU lofltn by merchants and individuals
fh'-ill be ascertained, and the amount there
of shall be a claim of indemnity, as a preli
minary to any peace with the enemy.
6. The Aflembly invites the King to pro
pose by his AmbaiTadors at foreign Courts,
the abfohite fuppreifion of privateering,
and to give to all nations aflurances, that,
so far as depends on the French nation,
the liberty of navigation and commerce,the
reciprocal tie of nations, and their com
mon resource, (hall be preserved.
Prince Emelt Augustus set out from
Maples the twenty fourth ult, on his routt
to Rome.
The present high price of provisions
renders it almoit impossible for what Burki;
calls " The fwinilh multitude," to eat a
ny meat, Paine is the poor man's friend,
and his writings are to procure them jus
tice and neceff.iry f iod ; hut Paine is ta
be prosecuted, and we are ordered not to
read his book ! ! !
Pol .nd is preparing to defend herfelf a
gainst a Ruflian attack.
With all the noise and nonsense about
prosecuting Mr. P.iine we hear nothing of
the Attorney-General having received or
ders to prosecute Mr. Burke for a libel on
the coriftitution, or Mr. Rose for corrupt
interference in the Wellminller eledlion.
The blood of every Engliflunan mull
furtly curdle with horror to think that the
punilhment of one thoufanil lajhes with a
cat 0' nine tails should be inflicted on a f 1
low creature. It may be called discipline,
and be deemed necefTary to keep the poor
foldierß in a Hate of obedience, but the se
verity of it can neither be excused nor pal
liated.
What is the reason that so many of the
Lords and Members of Parliament abuse
Mr. Paine, even though he is under pro
secution ? There mull surely be a great
deal of excellence in his work, to excite
such bitter ariimofity. We begin to think
this Paine must be an honelt fellow, and
that he deserves support.
Wc are sorry to fay, it is but too evident
thuthe despots of Germany have a perfect
understanding with the Empress or Ruflia
in tile attack which (he makes on the Con
itinu.on and Territories o) the Republic of
Poland. We uildedtand that the king of
Pruffla, who was die firft prince made ac
quainted confidentially with the change , in
tended in tlie fyilem, ao far back as the year
1 88, now abandons the Republic to its fate,
and so far declares himfell agalnlt her, as
to refule the auxiliary troops itipulated by
the iail treaty, in cafe of an attack on the
fide of Ruflia —under the pretext that the
treaty is of an anterior date to Che new
conltitution of tiie 3d May,
By THOMAS MIFFLIN, Governor oj
the Commonwealth of Pcnnfylvania.
A PROCLAMATION.
Pcnnfylvania,JT. T¥T"HEREAS
(l s.) > VV it appears
Thomas Mifflin. J from the Return of
an Inquelt which was held on the seven
teenth day of Augufl: inft. that a certain
Elizabeth Reeves, of the city of Philadel
phia, fpinlter, has been wilfully and with
malice aforethought, murdered by some
person, orperfons, to the said Inqucfl un
known : And whereas julliee, humanity,
and policy require, that every exertion
Ihould be made to detedl and punilh the
perpetrator, or perpetrators of a crime so
heinous : Therefore I have thought it pro
per and expedient to issue this Proclama
tion, herebv offering a reward of THREE
HUNDRED DOLLARS to any per
son, or persons, who shall discover, appre
hend and secure the perpetrator or perpe
trators of the said murder, his, her, or
their aiders and abettors, to be paid upon
the conviction of them, or any of them.
And all Judges, Justices, Sheriffs, Coro
ners, Constables, and other Officers of the
Commonwealth (according to the duties
of their refpeftive Rations) are hereby re
quired and enjoined, to employ all lawful
means, for discovering, apprehending, se
curing, trying, and bringing to justice, as
well the perpetrator, and perpetrators of
the said murder, es also all other persons
aiding and aflifting therein.
Given under my hand and the great Seal
of the State at Philadelphia, this
twenty second day of Auguil, in the
year of our Lord, one thousand se
ven hundred and ninety-two, and of
the Commonwealth the seventeenth.
By the Governor..
A. J. D ALLAS, Secretary of the
Commonwealth.
For the National Gazette.
I N so young a country as tills, it is not a
little to be regretted, that even our trading
laws are rendered in very abstruse language,
and frequently incumbered with technical
terms that bewilder the man of plain under-
Handing and education. But, it is to be
presumed, the committees of Congref
who draft them, too frequently follow the
obfeure dittion of the reports of the Secre
tary of the Treasury. in this idea I am
confirmed by an exoreflton of a member of
the H.R.when called upon to explain some
thing in the excise hill. His atifwer was
in words to this effert : " I do not holdmvfelj
refpo fiblc for the explanation of the bill I navt
drawn it up agreeably to the order of the House ; viz,
in conformity with the report of the Secretary of the
Treasury."
Thus, we cannot complain of our Repre
sentatives for involving our commercial
laws in a maze : they all may exculpa.e
themselves by laying the blame on a " Re
presentative officer." It is well known that
the great abilities of our public officers are
held forth by some printers as a fufficienr
exclife for doubling the debt of the United
States, for perpetuating our taxes, and for
involving America in a scene of blood with
the Indians.
It has been argued by some. that it would
be better for America were all the legHla
tive powers vested in responsible officers-, and
thus above three hundred thousand dollars
would have been laved from the pay of
Congress, who spent so much time in de
bateduring the lalt feflions, in making even
the Impost Law. Hut others (of whom
I am one) will fay, that the time was spent,
not in fixing the duties, tonnage, &c. but in
contending againlt some of those dutie
which the real republican members deemed
unconstitutional, although they were left
in the minority.
These thoughts will occur to every mer
chant whom the (hoe pinches, especially i'
he has had none of the emoluments ariiing
from army contrails, or from the purcha:t
ofllate debts at an undervalue. Thofc
who have made a jobb of the bulinefs may
praise and extol it. It is the duty of all
good citizens to warn their brethren of the
increasing danger.
MKRCATOR.
Philadelphia. Auo-nft 9. ■ i
For the JSa iiC»Ai.Kiiii.
To Mr. CEORGE LATIMER, Chairman
of the Committee of Correspondence.
S i R,
WHILE every mind fecms busy in con
templating the great fubjeft of fede
ral representation, it would seem as if I
were unconcerned in the general weal, un
less I gave an opinion on the nvghty ques
tion. To be sure, weak minds ought not
only to fuficr others of morcitrerigih to think
but to speak for them ; but as the contagion
of the times has seized me, I find myfell
contiraincd, in the firil delirium of its ope
ration, to utter fonietliing, ihould it even be
biloro the level of those appointed to think for
me. A mighty suss and pother has been
made, and is Hill making, about conferred
anil committees of correspondence, as if,
not only our happiness here, but our bliss
hereafter depended upon them. Some in
deed have gone so far as to hint, that patri
ots only llioukl have a preference when ho
nors and loaves and fillies are in diltribn
tion ; but, Sir, this is an idea that never
Ihould enter into the mind of a rational
man; lor as they are already paid for their
Cervices, they ought not to look for any o
ther reward, any more than the labourer
who has allilted in building a house, Ihould
infill upon being a proprietor of it for hL
pains. Has not the convention at Ver
faillcs placed us all upon an equal footing,
and have we not agreed, through our mi.li
fters, to fwallpw large draughts of the wa
ters of Lethe, that our political character
may be renovated, and that the spirit ol re
feniment for pall injuries and attempts upon
our liberties may be drowned ? Surely,
surely—in addition to this, the change in
our government has mellowed us down into
a common mass of character, where former
distinctions are loft, and where the war
worn foidier, and ghost-like counsellor. lie
in one undiftinguithed heap, amid Britons
and their friends. The fumes of revolu
tion-powder did not, to be sure, obtund my
olfactory much, nor throw a veil across my
optics; neither have the fears of freedom's
cause given me any great title topre-emi
nence ; I wilhed well to my country, and
my feeble fervites were devoted to her ;
but if I had given up a leg or an arm, my
fortune or my health, my ease or my happi
ness, do these amount to claims of prefer
ence ? No, Sir—a freeman ought to be a
christian, and a christian, on beii'g fmo:e on
one cheek, will certainly hold the other,
and reverence the chastening hand. Tho'
dlltinctions between a friend and an enemy
to his country are manifeltly absurd in times
of profound peace, there are other di&inc
tions which certainly merit attention ; for
I maintain, Sir, that tmdcrjlandin r and property
are in a dir-jft ratio with each other, and that the
man of l'mall fortune is absolutely incapable
of state affairs.for he is liulebetter than a fool.
Vou have wifely attended to this diltinition
m the choice offume of your committee, and
much credit is due to you for the well-judged
felettion. But to come to the point, tor X
am afraid of tirin : you with my fmiplicity,
as I begin to be weary with it myfelf, I abo
minate dlltinctions of every kind, unless, as
I have laid before, they are xhefo'id dlltinc
tions of fortune, or perhaps of family, and
lo give a proof how little I am difpoi'ed to
retrofpettive views, 1 will take the liberty
to fugjjeft the following named gentlemen
o your committee as proper persons to re
present us in the House of lleprefentatives
of the United States :
Samuel Shoemaker, Samuel Sower,
Robert Wain, Reynold Keen,
William Lewis, George Fmleii,
Myers Filher, Henry SheafF,
Richard Wells, William Rawle,
jeorge Kddy, Benj. R. Morgan.
Peter Miller,
I have taken the liberty to offer this tick
et to your conlideratioil through the fame
public channel that you have conveyed your
address, as I am an enemy to every kind of
secrecy which regards the public good. II
any objections Ihould arise to the ticket, as
being composed of chara£ters reiiding with -
in the city, I will remove them by anfwer
:ng, that the city is the head, and cannol
cxilt without the members ; it is therefore
its interejl to pay a proper attention to them ;
and a; the members cannot exilt without
the head, And the head is allowed to be the
feat of the foul, and therefore of intelli
gence, it is highly proper that it Ihould go
vern.
Itisa lamentable circumstance, Sir, that
the people are seized with the phrenzy oj
thinking for themselves, and will not (nbmit to
a conclave or conference; but you have a
dopted a mode equally effectual to inftruO
them in the duties tiiey owe to yon and to
themselves—a correspondence, by means of
which you will become a lens, thro' which
the diverging rays of popular opinion and
interests will be brought to a focus. With
out this politico-philosophical mode of ag
gregating things, the people could never be
made to understand their true interests, and
much ought they to thank you for your su
per intending care.
I am, Sir,
With refpeft,
Your Friend,
August 23. M O M U S.
PHILADELPHIA.
August 25, 1792.
THE gale which did so much damage at
Tea, about the 6th initant, and from which
so many vclfels have more or less fullered,
feenis, from the particulars yet collected,
to have raged between the latitudes of 17
and 36, and from long. 63 to 71, 72, and
73,(h0w much farther ealtward is not afcer
laiued). It is remarkable that vellcls that
left Charlcfton bar 011 the very fame day on
which this deflructive tornado happened,
had the 1110 ft delightful weather, wind from
S. 10 S.S.K. a clear, (crene Iky, tho' some
what 0/ a heavy swell 011 the bar,undoubted
ly owing to the gale to the ealtward. It is
evident from the accounts received, that
the violent norih-welt.wind which fucceded
the gale, and blew a hurricane, mult h^ve
originated a confide: able diflance ft cm l!:o
land, as none of our coasters have experi
enced any thingfevere from that quarter.
By the last arrivals from Europe, we
learn that several camps are forming in
England and Ireland ;■their objeftis (it is
raid) to prevent any attempts at national
revolution or reformation.
Mr. Paine has addrefled a long letter to
Mr. Secretary Dundas, oil account of the
latter, at the opening the debate in the
House of Commons, having (tiled Paine's
Rights of Man " a vVicked and seditious pub
lication " In this letter Mr. Paine supports
the principles of his work, with h ! s ufnal
ability, against the aspersions and mifrepre- ,
fentations of a man who is rolling in luxury
at the expence of the nation, and who, as
far as he could, has denied his native coun
try,Scotland,the right of equal representation;
but for which (fays an English paper) he
hiuifelf has been reprcfented in every town in
Scotland by way ofeiligy on the gallows.
Not with (tan ding all that has been said of
offenfive war, between France, Auftria,&c.
it begins to be fufpefted that a defen
live fyftein will be embraced by both par
ties. Tile real object of'AuftriafoemmCcarcely
more than preventing a revolt of her Flan
drian provinces. Prufiia is againlt the in
terference of Russia in dictating a constitu
tion to Poland, which will probably prevent
any very considerable junction of the allied
forces from that quarter, to ast against
Fiance.
Extratl of a leter from Paris, jfune 7.
"T lit Marquis de la Fayette is indefati
gable in efh'blifhing discipline in the army,
and forming it in such a manner as to prove
an etfeftive barrier against any projected in
roads of the Aultria.is or their allies. These
incefl'ant cares, however, are beginning to
work a vifiblc eft'eft upon a constitution na
turally (trong, and a spirit replete wlthen
thuliafmfor the welfare and final establish
ment of the rights of mankind. M. de la
Fayette eats little, and carries an example
of temperance almolt to extravagance; a
little bread and water, with now and then
a glass of light wine, afford the principal
means of his fnbfiftence. Sleepless nights
and toilsome days are the lot ot this active
friend of mankind ; and liiltory will mark
hm out as one of those few extraordinary
men, who are born for the human race, and
not for themselves. —It is thought there
will be an attack upon some of the enemy's
posts in a (hort rme. Their army is ga
thering strength, but upon a serious view of
the matter, and the divfions like to take
place on account of Poland, it is thought
their op-rations will merely tend to pevent
a revolt in the Austrian Low Countries."
On the <;th instant arrived at Norfolk,
Virginia, in diltrefs, a brig that had been
bound from New Orleans to Cape-Francois,
but w a-; overiet by a violent gult in lat. 21,
which obliged the crew to cut away both
mails. On ofjuly they (poke the
fliip , Captain White, from England
bound to Charleston, who supplied them
with two finall spars, for which he demand
ed and received thirty-fix dollars. Fiftee i
leagues to theS.E. of Cape Henry, they
fell in with brig Polly, of Bedford, (C.on
nefticut) Hugh Fish, mailer, from a fuc
cel' ful whaling voyage, who conducted the
brig into Hampton Road, for the moderate
sum of 2iodollars.
It is said a French squadron has been spoke
with atfea, bound from the Welf-Indiesto
Boston. If so. it may be concluded that
peace is as good as rcltored in the French
islands.
Mr. Morris (fays a London paper) has
had his private audience of the King of the
French, and delivered his credentials as
Anibaffador from the United States of A
nierica.
" A number of young farmers [fays a cor
refponderitj who are abont to fettle some
new land, would wifli to be informed in a
point that immediately concerns them ; and
on which, before their removal, they
would be glad to take the opinions of their
fellow-citizens; whether a future COll
- will persevere in the system of Briti'fh
politics, and will, after the policy of that
nation, extend the F.xcife to Cider, Beer,
Candles, and other neceiTary articles in a
family ? —This question mi; ht, perhaps,
with propriety have been addrefled to those
who have secretly influenced the meafurcs
of Congress, and who are now exerting
every nerve to fill the new lesfiflature with
men devoted to avarice, and who will hum
bly pnrfue every measure dictated by their
patrons."
Mr. WilliAM GonnARD, of Balti
more, Printer of the Maryland Jour
nal, and formerly printer of an elegant
paper in this city, Signifies his intention, in
the Maryland Journal of the 14th instant,
to resign his typographical concerns into
the hands of Mr. James Anoell, his bro
ther in law, and, for some time past, part
ner in business. We are further informed,
that Mr. Goddard intends, in future, to
relide at a farm he poflefles ncor the town
of Providence, in the itute of Rhodc-Ifland.
AW libra, nunc fomnio, nunc avticis, inertibus horis,
In umbiaJecluJus, ducerejucunda oblivia vita I
The works of the late FRANCIS HOP
KINSON, Esquire, are now published, by
Mr. Thomas Pobfon, of this city, in threavolumes afttvo. They coftflft principally of
Miscellaneous Efl'ays, Poems, and occasion
al writings, forming an entertaining aiul
ufeful collection, little, if at all inferior, to
the most favourite authors from the other
fide of the Atlantic.
The Governor of the slate of Nor'ii-
Carolina has called a meeting of 'he legif
lature of that state at Newborn, at an ear
lier day than that prescribed by law, for
the purpose of chooling electors of a Preii
denr and Vice-President, See. of the Uni
ted States.
A (liort, tlio' curions eflay, appears in a
Tsew-Harapfhire paper, in which the writer
boldly ajferts, that the whole human race are
ftriftly of the diabolical nature —" They are
Devils (fays he) but Jome xtiorfe than other
some-, some white, some black, I'onie copper
coloured, &c."—lt would hardly be worth
while to enter into a fcrious refutation of
this author' opinions.—Don Quevedo will
convince uhe is wrong :—" In hell (fays
Don Quevedo) I saw no barbers.—The de
vils will not trufleach other to be shaved,
far fear of having their weazons cut."—
!Now if on earth tiiere are barbers, it is a
strong prcfumption that th e diabolical na
ture is not the predominant one. '
On the " th ixiflant the President and Ma
nagers for the Philadelphia and Lancaster
Turnpike Road had a meeting, for the tii il
time, when several rules, bye-laws, antl re
gulations were agreed to, relative to said
road : fmce which time they have been
employed in making the necessary arrange
ment., procuring tools, inftriunencs, artifi
cers, labourers, &c. to begin the work.
By accounts from Cape Francois to the
firflinft. a treaty of peace had taken place
between the whites and mulauoes of that
place. Tiie negroes were in pofleflion cf
the plains,and the whites and mulattoes kept
in their own lines. An expedition againit
the negroes was talked of immediately.
On Thursday arrive*! here the (loop Ma
ry. Whirter Saltus, master, from St. Kitts
and St. Euftatia He confirms our other
accounts of a violent gale having happened
among the windward islands the beginning
ofAuguft, and doing immense damage to
the (hipping &c. in tnofe parts. The Ihip
loft at St. K. ; tts wns called the Britannia,
of London, VVoodyer, mailer, having
on board 650 hhds. of lilgar, and 150 bales
of cotton. Passenger and crew all perlhed,
except three Capt. Saltu :,on his way to this
port spoke with a number of veflels more
or less in a dirtreffed condition among
which was the brig Hopewell, in lat. 20, 49,
Benjamin Chadwell, matter, who was drove
out of St. Martin'r. with three anchors a
head, only the Captain, one lick man, and
a boy on boaid; the remainder o.' his crew
incoming olfto the brig in the gale, having
unfortunately all perilhed. The brig being
totally dlfabled, Capt. S ilm . took 011 board
the Capt. &c. and bi ought them to this
port. .
ExtraSl of a letter from an emimnt Phrfciamn
CharUJlon, to his fritnd in this city, dated Aug, ?..
" I thank you for the Tiiefes you lent
me. I have read a great number, and never
met with one which pleased me 10 much
as Dr. Mease's 011 the Hydrophobia.
There is in it a vast deal of ufefn' informa
tion, a chain of well connected realoaing,
and a profulioiT of fa£ts and quotation ,
which evince the author's industry and in
genuity- Such theses cannot fail of giving
great celebrity to the umverfity of Peiiilfyl
vania."
[from Pans, June B.J
The follow ■ig are th* general orders wax!
Marshal Luckner published, and diltribu
ted in the army of the north.
" I hear, that calumnious and infill ting
reports are spread. I iiey talk ot parties
to be formed here. This is used as a pre
text to add to the want of organization in
the army. It is in this manner the well
meaning people, but who credulou;
and weak, are alarmed. I declare that I
will look upon such reports as a persona
insult. Tliofe who spread these report;
ought to know, that 1 know but one party ;
this is the glory of France and tne fupporl
of the conltitntion. This is my objetf, this
the oath that 1 have taken : and for my part
I keep my oaths■ The truly fa&ioUs are thole
whoinlpire alarms, tending to weaken thii
army more, and who would at any rate
whatever, render the success of our arm:
impoflible. My eyes are open ; I'llprofe
cute the authors of these alarms, let their
be who they will. They fear the re-eftab
.lifhment of discipline, the return of confi
dence. They want to raise a mutual mis
trust between the officers and foldiers,while
they ought to employ all means to attach the
one to the other • These are the laftious
and 1 will have none of cm- Let the General:
and Commanders watch the exa&nef '■ o!
tliofe under their command,the wants of the
soldiers and the (trift execution of their du
ly ; let the officers inllruft themselves, lei
mem command and make themselves obey
ed ; let the soldiers be disciplined and fill
of confidence. These are the points ever)
one Ihould carefully attend to, according tc
the post wherein he is placed ; the red be
longs to me under the orders ot the king
It is time to leave off creating phantoms tc
fight with, and to feel that nobody believes
the truth of those pretexts that arc given ir
order to quit a difficult position.
I for mv part am of opinion, that the
cause we del'ejided a month ago ? lias noi
[ become Jess good, because the iniftrufts,
(excited at Mons and Toiirnay by the
moU criminal means, have rendered the
fame more dangerous ; I kn.nv to what de
cree the reports which are spread, are per- ;
hilious and without foundation. Let U:
employ ourselves reciprocally, in ourcojii
mou interests ; let us serve our country,
let us surmount all obllacies of whatever
kind they be ; let us (hew that conffancy,
that noble firmnefs, worthy of men who are
determined to be free, who know how to
refpeit their oaths and maintain the princi
ple? which they have once adopted- It is in
thitmanner we ihall have finifhed with ho
nor the career which is now open before
us, and that we (hall merit either tears or
triumphs.
(Signed)
MARSHAL LUCKNER.
The farmers of the United States are
cautioned, in the Maryland Journal, to be
1 oil their guard again fl the practice of a cer
| tain let of men, who in order to a(Te£t the
price of the country produce, especially
wheat, publifli fabricated extraits of letters
from various parts of Europe, setting forth
thfit the markets in that country are over
flocked, yea glutted with wheat in fucli a
manner that .there will be nofale for twelve
months to come. The farmers are advised
to have patience and wait till time tells the
truth.
Every account from our Wtflern Fron
tiers gives left and less reason to suppose a
pacific spirit prevalent among the Indians,
a; has been aflerted. They re;<fon from
what they fee; a continual accelfion of
troops to the pofls; and from thence they
conclude that our pacific overtures are not
iincere. " They are so elaied with their
former success, (fays a letter from an offi
cer at Fori Washington) as to scorn a peace
upon the moll advantageous terms."
A parcel of stones, picked up among the
ruins of the Baltille, have been lately land
ed at Boilon. They were soon afterwards
fold at audlion at one penny per ounce.
It is said in Englifli papers that the Turks
are preparing for an attack upon fonte of
the German powers, moll probably Aullria,
by way of divcrlion in favour of France.
Mr. Gerry, member of the House of
Representatives from Massachusetts, has
publicly notified the electors diftri£l,
in that ltate, that he declines propofitlg him
felf candidate for a feat in the next COll
- ; his health being rather precarious.
On the Third of August, inltant, be
ing preciiely three hundred years since the
departure of COLUMBUS, from Palos, in
Spain, on the proje£tfd discovery of Ame
rica, a gentleman of Maryland had the cor
ner (tone laid of an Obelilk, in one of the
gardens of a villa near the town of Balti
more, in commemoration of that great un
dertaking, and to ho.ior the memory of the
celebrated marine li ro that discovered a
world, Which, but for him, and hisfublime
expaulion of thought, might have remained
undi'v-overed to the present moment. —
Su '''ie inferiptions, o;i metal tables, are
to b. affixed to the pedeflal of the Ob.-iilk,
on tiie i. ii of ne*t Oflober, the anniverfa
i y of the day on which Columbus firlt saw
she lnliihr land of this continent.
Englifli papers mention a mifunderftand
iin, i) have .aken place between the Duke
ol Richmond and Lord Lauderdale, which
hhd nearly terminated in a duel. By the
interpolation o; friends the affair was made
up, iulc a> matters were coming to the
po i The woids that gave oifence to
Lor I Lauderdale were fpoxen in debate in
tile House of Lordi, and were no other than
apojlacy and impertinent. The firfl word was
used by the Earl of Lauderdale, and the lat
ter by the Duke of Richmond.
A few years perhaps will bring to light
the real grounds for the present war carri
ed on by the English in India. Hitherto,
several particulars have leaked out, which
ieem to lligmatize it as unjufliliable and
cruel. From Lord Cornwallis's own ac
count, one third of the Engli.'h company',
territory in Indoitan is now reduced to a
defart, inhabited by wild beads. The In
dia war has been publicly declared in the
House of Commons a war of ambition, at
leafl of policy, which had better have been
avoided : lire, devaluation, and plunder had
been carried into almost every quarter, and
it was held impossible to give any probable
computation of the number of unfortunate
people who have already perilhed by the
war and its COnsequences : it was though
however, that it would exceed a million ol
fouls. From a review of the Bengal news
papers, the affairs of that country seem ra
ther in a difaltrous lituation. Advertife
meilts continually appear in those papers, of
tiie sale of lands for want of due payment
of the revenue. On December 27, 179'.
was announced the sale of seventeen villages,
and on the 30th of November, the fame
I year, 110 less than forty-two villages —when
to thisconlideratioii are added the bankrupt
cies and ltagnation of irade at Calcutta, ol
wtiich we have had ftich ampie accounts, it
may be concluded that peace in India would
j be a molt desirable object to the Englifli,
I even tho' the accounts of the furreudei of
j Tippo's capital lhould prove true.
( It is mentioned in a letter from a gentle
tnaji in England to his correfpondeut in this
ciry f that " WJlen the news arrived there of
the French having declared war against the
Kin"; of Hungary, it was generally thought
among the knowing ones that the course of
exchange between London and Paris would
fall conliderably, to the disadvantage of the
But, contrary to all probability,
(adds he) the exchange does not, and has
not fallen, but rises ; a lure proof that the
willies and energy of tne nation is with
France, and that their caufeis the caufethat
inufl and will prevail."
Captain Stoboj of the (hip Hannah, who
iirrlved here on Tuesday last from Havre
le-Grace, informs that he encountered a
severe gale ofwind on the 6th instant, in the
latitude of Bermuda, during which hi;
mainmort was sprung, and inain-topmaft,
and several of his fails carried away. After
the gale lie saw two fliips apparently in dis
tress, but, from the condition of his iiiip
was unable to speak with them. On tlit
-th he fell in with a sloop which had alft
CnfFered by the gale, and which had mei
with a Ihip bottom-up. On the rßth Capt
Stobo fell in with a French Iliip from tht
Weft-Indies, but lnft from Norfolk, lader
with indigo, sugar and tobacco, bound ti
Bourdeaux. This ship was in the greatcfl
dilfrefs, having loft all her uiafts end fails
her bowsprit and head. The crew wert
delirous of abandoning her, and being re
ceived on board the Ilannah, Capt. Stobt
very generoudy ottered to accommodate
them on board his ship, if they fliould deter
mine on leaving their own, but at the fame
tune advised them to remain on board am
endeavour to fhve her, and promised hisaf
liftance, and proposed to take her in tow—
The otter of Capt. Stobt) was joyfully ac
cepted, and in eight days after he had tlx
fatisfaffion of bringing the vefl'el into the
Capes, andfavinga valuable cargo.
[From Baltimore, Aug. 21.]
The impolitic and unconstitutional inter
ference of the Britilh legislature, refpeffing
the commerce of the Weft-India islands,
begins not only to be understood, but sorely
felt by the parent state.
M uiy of the 1110 ft opulent planters and
mtrchantsthere liaveadvertifed their estates
and Itock in trade for sale, with the avow
ed refolutiou of fettling in the United States
of America. From the indisputable autho
rity on which the above statement is found
ed, we are warranted >n asserting, that A
merica is 011 the point of 'receiving an in
crease of wealthy inhabitants, which no
country in either ancient or modern times,
ever could boast of, within the fame period
of time.
The landed iutereft of the union may
from tilde circumstances form an idea, how
far it niay be prudent for them to part with
real property under its intriiific value ; now
that the y can plainly fee profpefts are
upetiingon every fide so highly favourable
to, and so far beyond their 1110 ft fauguine
sxpeftatious.
Agent s are daily expefled from the Bri
tilh Weft-India islands, to engage in the
capon towns, and other places of trade,
uitablc accommodations for the different
tlaires, who have entered into an affocia
ion for their mutual protection and advan
tage on the present emergency.
Mr. Haltings's Ipeech to the House of
Lords, and petition to the King, have been
itcended with iiccefs. By the last London
lccounts the House of Peers were to cou
lliue to fit on the trial, and fee the end ol
Mr. Halting:/defcnceolatheprefentcharge,
luring their present fefliori.
A peace has been concluded between the
Bey of Tunis and the Republic of Venice.
In consequence of which the Venetians aie
to be admitted to an equal partic'patioi
tvith the Engli/h in their trade with Tunis,
an their paying 53,000 (equina.
On the Bth of August, the inhabitants of thi
town of Coclcfackic, (state of New-York) held :
meeting, and pafi>d ieveral resolutions, tending
to crinnnatc the dccifion of the majority of can
irallera, and defend the legality of Mr. .ay's elec
tion— Among the other resolutions pafied at thi'
meeting was the following :
" Resolved, I hata monument of Liberty be crcc
ted, with this infeription, " JOHN JAY, GO
VKRNOR by the VOICE of the PEOPLE,'
in honor of the VuUR who were against rejc&ing
the votes of the counties of Otfego, Clinton anil
Tioga,andtothe lhame and difg race of t ofe hardy
iiVEN,who, at that moment, sported with the
sacred rights of the people, the laws and confti
tui ion or this Hate."
They also appointed a committee of corref on
dence.
The stockholders and lubferibers of the New-
York Friar's Tontine, resolved, on the 20th inft.
" "1 hat a difl'olution of laid Tontine ought to t ike
place, and that the fame be carried into on
or befote the 6th day of September nent.
Letters from Europe inform us that, exclusive
of the large armies of the lccular force that are
preparing to attack the freedom of France, and
through it the general liberty of mankind, his
Hohnefs the Pope has entered the lift, with all
die llrength of his spiritual arm, denouncing the
ntmoll Vengeance on various orders of men ; but
agjinft no iociety has he been so pointedly severe
as that of the Free Mahns, ftiling them atheifls,
heathen, &c. &c. and tl at they, moreover, by
their pretended philosophy, have inftillrd into the
minds of the people that irit of rquality, which
his Holiness -Hats docs net exist in nature.
On'Tliurfdty arrived here the fAooner Friend •
{hip, Capt Welch, in nine days from Charleston.
On Saturday last died on hoard, Mr. WIIXIAM
BENT 'N, Printer, iof Hartford) hut who had
reftded for feme time pad in this city. He had
gone out with Capt. Welch on a vilif to South -
Carolina, and was returning to Philadelphia,'
when he was seized with the fickncfa which oc
casioned his death.
At a Meeting of the Germantown Societ/
for promoting domestic manufactures, on
Monday last, the following address wai
delivered by the Prrjidcnt.
Gentlemen,
DID not yonrfteady attention and exer
tions to promote American manufacturer
afford a pleafmg afliirance of your determi
necl reiolutiort to support thein ; I flioitld
not at this time call your attention to the
schemes of some influential characters in the
United States, which if carried into full ef
fect, will tend to destroy the infant manu
factures of our country. You are all ac
quainted with the proposition ol the Secre
tary of the Treasury to establish national
manufactories, and that at this moment he
;; pursuing his plan wirh. unremitted atten
tion. Should he be fuccefsful in this pro
ject, to what situation will you be reduced,
who are personally engaged in manufac
tures ? Will not the exemption from mili
tia duty, and the exclusive privilegesgranted
to the workmen of such factories, draw off
yo\ir hands ? Will not the prodigious capi
tals of monied men invelled in such eftab
liflnnents, enable them to monopolize all
the raw materials, particularly in the im
portant occupations of the hatter and tan
ner ? Will not the exclusive privilege
granted to the corporation of establishing
lotteries to indemnify them for lofl'js, ena
ble the company to undersell and ruin every
private citizen personally engaged in manu
facture's? Will not the arbitrary and un
uftifiable interference of government in the
private occupations of citizens discourage
young men from acquiring the knowledge
any occupation in which they may be ru
ned by a combination of rich men enjoying_
:he particular patronage and protection ot
jovernment.
This subjeCt and these qucftions me
it your serious attention. As yet you have
lie power in your own hands, you ought to
;xert it to support your rights.
It is the slavish do&rine of some men," that
rovernment has the whole property of citi
zens under 1 its command, and that every
aw enaCted by the legislature ought to be
jbeyed." No government on earth can be
nvefted with power to violate those natural
•ights of man, the protection of which, is
:he sole objeCt of the inititution of civil fo
:iety , therefore, every attempt made by
i legislature to destroy them, ought to be
jppofed by a free people.
The ambitio* and avarice of fo;r.e men
jre never to be fatisfied. A few such cha
. aCters have been for some time bending the
ivhole power of the United States lo pro
note their own private views of ambition
ind wealth. Not content with the honor
ible name of citizen, they with to introduce
liftinCtion of rank ; ntit content with en
joying at their ease every advantage which
aur country can afford, or their wealth pro
cure, they desire to interfere in the occu
pations, and to curtail the enjoyments of
their fellow-citizens. They act as if they
wilhed to bring the whole wealth and pow
er of the country under their feet. May
the early eppofition of the People ofA
mericato the unjust llieafures of these delu
ded men—may the glorious and bleiled
light of the French revolution, aided by the
writings of the friendly clubs in England,
tend to convince them of their errors, and
bring them to regard the rights of men in
every occupation, as sacred.
Publijhecl by order of the Society,
Aug. 20. THOMAS DUNG-AN, Sec'ry.
Itis mentioned in a letter from Cumber
land, that a party of Indians coulilting of
Creeks, Cherokee:;, and Shawanefe have
taken a station about thirty miles from
NafhviUe, in which were about twenty per
form, some of whom they killed, and carri
ed off other? pri oners to their towns.
Indians have been lately difcoverecl ap
proaching the frontiers of Weltmoreland
county, In this Hate : upon particular exa
mination, however, by a party who were
lent out, only two trails have been feeli,
and the number in each supposed not to
have exceeded five or iix; and evsn these,
it began to be suspeCted, were only trails
of companies of militia.
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS,
August, i?<32.
DH. Bar. Ther. Wind. Weath.
Wednesday, 15. 6 29. 8 62 WNw fair.
2 29. 9 75 N.W.I do.
Thurjday, 16. 6 50.07 jS NAY. fair
2 30. 1 77 S. W. do.
Friday,. 17. 6 30.08 60 W. , fair.
2 40. 05 83 S. W.' do.
Hutu/day, 18. 6 30. o 66 [Calm, jft gy
a 30. o 87 >. W. fair.
Suudaj, 19. 6 29.91 73 '• Fo BSy
-2 29. 9 92 "> s w fair.
Monday, 2076 29.87 77 N. W. Cloudy.
2 29.9s 9' ?• W.' fair.
Tucjday, H". 6 30. 1 64 N. Cloudy".
j go. is 77 do- Uazey.Farmer DOBBINS to the Buck*
Suitors*
THREE dauglueis i have, and as prettily
made,
A» haridfome as any you'll fee,
And lovers the-y count, but.still I'm afraid
They always wild hur.g upon me.
In writing of letters and talking of love
They 2re foolifnly spending their time ,
One fends them a ribbon, and one the new
glove—
And thus they are palling •heir prime.
With idle Romances my book-cafe is ftor'd
Tnat teach them to praise nor to pray ;
And the Bible itfe-lf is difcharg'd frGm the board
"Where once with John B+nyan it lay.
Thefefuitors znd lovers, that never can love,
{Content w.ith a squeeze of the hand]
Though often the fubje£t of Hvmen I move,
The lubject ihey can't understand.
These bucks of the town, with their elegant coats 3
I'm sick of their horles and chairs ;
They plunder my hay, and they pilfer my oats-
Am 1 keeping a tavern my dears.
This courting and courting and aever concluding
Is nonfenfe—l'ara sorry to fay—
Your killing and playing is rather intruding
Vnlefs—you will take them away.
Aug. 22. DOBBINS.
■—— —
FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
State Paper.
Declaration of the Kings of and
Hungary, delivered to all the minijlers at
the Diet oj Ratijbon, excepting those of
Saxony and Hanover, Publijhed at Ra
tijbon, May 7, 1792.
" In conlcquence of the aflociation
made between all the princes, on the in
vitation cf the deeeafed Empcvor for th<?
defence and fafety of the empire, the kings
of Pit!ilia and of Hungary conjointly,
hope that none of the slates of she empire
will withdraw themfelv.es therefrom ; but,
on the contrary will hasten t» contribute,
by every means, in their power, to sup
port the war againlt Francs', who threat
ens the empire. Their raajelties demand,
that the aforef.iid States, without entering
into any difcufiion on the queltion, whe
ther the war is againlt the empire or a.
gainlt the houle of Austria, will explain
themselves categorically on the luccours
they ate willing to supply. and on which
however they ate leit to their free will,
flatte ing themlelves, however, that the
supplies will be proportioned to the gran
deur of the reipeftive States. These fiw
cours may be iii troops, or in provi
liou3, or 111 full liberty to the beii.gercnt
armies to vecruit in the said State., If,
cont.ary to all expectation, there fhoukl
be any Hate, who, by any reason whatever,
renounces itie affociatioo, their said majes
ties will be forced purely and funply to cov
er their own States, as also thole of their
allies, and to abandon the others to their
fate. They will even adopt the principle
<• he that is not for us is againlt us," and
will put it in ex-cution as circumltances
may require ; but their majesties have so
high an opinion of the patiiotifm of all the
States of the empire,that they allure them
selves beforehand of receiving from each a
speedy and fatisfadtory anlwer."
Tbis declaration after being made ver
bally was delivered in writing to all tht
ministers at the Diet, except those of Sax
ony and Hanover. It wae received with
genera! The imperious
tone afiumedby the kings of Hungary &
Pruffin, and their menacing the co-eitaten,
were loudly complained of. " If Fr&nci(
lit." it was said, " already takes upor
qim to command us, what will he dc
when elected emperor " I told you,'
said the minilter of Saxony, " that in this
young pr nee we Giould lind a mailer.
ExtraS of a Utter from the van-guard of tht
army of La Fayette, dated June 11 th.
" The brave Gouvion has fallen in hi)
country's caul'e. If any thing can add to
our grief it is to think that he 101 l lift
in a skirmish. We did not lose 30 men,
This morning our van-guard was at
tacked at Grifelle, beyond Maubeuge, by
a large body of the Aultrian army. They
expected to surprise us, but did not suc
ceed.
The General had Rationed polls tc
communicate by signals. Maubeuge wa;
the intermediate Itation. Unfortunately
the weather was so unfavorable, that the
firing of cannon was not heard at the dis
tance of three quarteraof a league by those
diredted to attend to and repeat the sig
nals.
A.B soon as M. La Fayette had learnt
that his van-guard was attacked, he went
forward l.imfclf cn a gallop, and made his
trcops advance In two columns to attack
the enemy. There was a very hot firings
especially from our fide, as our light field
pieces, confiding of eight pounders, and
some pieces of a larger bore, produced
great effe& on the columns of the enemy.
The lieutenant Colonels of the volun
teeersof Cote d ? or were killed. M. Gou
vicn, uneasy concerning an ammunitior
waggon which did not return, went for
ward with an huflar towards a house
which appeared out of the enemy's reach :
and there, by the nroft fatal accident, he
was struck by a rebounding bullet and kil
ted on the spot.
Our troops were retiring towards Mau
beuge, when M. de La Fayette eame up
He made them advance towards a hedg<
that had beeu deferred. The corps d<
reserve then came np,&; soon after, by ano
ther*oute, a column of infantry and ca
fairy.
M, La Fayette retook all the ground
loft and the enemy retired. We followec
them upwards of a league beyond th(
ground occupied by our van guard. Everj
ilation was retaken, and our army wai
displayed on a height to offer battle ; bill
it appears that their intention was to -fur
piifeand to cut u?> our van-guard. No 1
having succeeded, they retired, efpeeiall)
when they perceivcd that we were read)
to attack them on two fides*
Part of their dead were carried off, th<
remainder were left behind with foraj
wonnded and some priioners I mvfell
counted 11 Houlans and Austrian grena
diers dead in a road, one of whom was at
officer. The fccond regiment of huffari
cut to pieces forty Houlans who weri
surrounded by two fquadroos.
We have in hospital 25 wounded> o
which 10 are Auftiians.
Such is the exadl account of this en
gagement, which would be advantageous
at we drove back the enemy, if we had no!
had the misfortune of loofmg a man whofi
memory will ever be dear to us.
Pi ices Current at Philadelphia.
[Dollars equal to 100 cenße.]
As-hes t-ji per ton 90 Dois. to 100
Aih-s Pearl 137 — — 140.
Bacon fiicches per lb. 7 cents.
Bacon llioulders — 6 do.
iites wax, per lb. 25 cents to 27•
Brandy, Coniac, pcrgi. 1 dol. 20 c, to 1 d. 33 c
braady, common, 1 dol. 26 c.
Butter, in kegs, per lb. 9 c. to 10.
per bulhel, 2C c. lo 22
Coffee, per lb. iS to 19 c.
Cotton, per lb. 2& C. 40
1- lax, prr lb. 11 to 12 c.
flour, fuperfine, per barrel,' 4 Dol. 80 C.
Common, — 4 dois. 47 c.
Bun middlings, befl, pcrbrl. 71
Meai Indian 2 dolt. 52 c.
Rye 2 dois. 40 c,
Ship ftuti", per c.wt, 80 c. to 1 dol.
Gin, Holland, per cast, 4 dois. 67 c.
Ginseng per lb* 20 c. Co 24
Grain, barley, per hufivel, 90 c.
best flic lied, per lb. 3 c.
Buck-wheat, per bushel, 40 c.
Indian corn, 44 c. Oats 26 c. pr. bush.
Rye 54, Wheat 93 to 95 e.
Mams, per lb. 8 c. to 9
Hemp, imported, per con, ilo dois. to 146 67c.
American, per lb. 4 c« r§ 5
Hides, raw, per lb. 9 c. to
lndijo, Carolina, per lb. 60 c. to 1 dot.
Iroa, bar, pe* ton, 82 dois. 67 e.
Castings, per cwt. 3 dois. 47 c.
Nail-rods per ton 96 dois.
Pig, per ton, 24 dois. to 26 dois. 67 c.
Sheet, per ton, 173 dois 33 c.
Lard, hogs, per lb. 9 c. to 10
Lead, in bars, per cwt. 7 dois.
in pigs, 5 dels. 33 c. to 5 dois. 67 c,
Red, —— 6 dois. 40 c. to 0 dola. 67 c,
White, 10 dois. to 10 dol*. 67 c.
Myrtle wax per lb. 18 c.
Molalfes, per gal. 44 c. to 50
Nutmegs, per lb. 7 to S dollars
Oil, Lini'eed, per gallon, 65 to 67 c,
Pepper, per lb. 37.
Pimento,— — c.
Porter, London, per dozen, 1 dol. 60 c.
American, do. j d. 4 c. to 1 d. 60 c.
Pitch, per barrel, 73 c. to 2 dois.
Pork, Burlington, per barrel, dois to u d 33c. 6c
Lower County, do. 10 dois.
Carolina, do. 9 dois.
Rice, per 100 lb. 2 dois. 50 c. to 2 dol. 67 c.
Rosin, per barrel, 2 dolls. 33 c. to 2 dois.67 c.
Rum, Antigua, per gallon, 1 dol.
Barbadoes, do. do. $7 c.
New-England, &c. 67 c.
Jamaica, 1 dol. jS c. to id. 22 c.
Windward iliand, 93c. to id.
Salt, (Allum) per bushel, 24 to 27 c.
Cadiz, 23 to 24 c.
Lilbon, — 25 to 27 c.
Liverpool, ———— 29 c.
Skins, Deer, in hair, per lb. 20 to 30 c.
Red, ditto, 26 to 33 c.
Snake-Root, per lb. 20 c. to 42
>ug*r, Havanna, white, per lb. 17 to iS c»
jr— -Brown, per lb. 15 c.
Mulcovado, per cwt. 13 d. to 15 d. 33 c.
Lump, per lb. 24 c.
Loaf, finglerefiaed, 26 c.
Loaf, double ditto, 36 c.
Tallow, refined, per lb. 9 c.
Carolina, new, 2 aols. 7 c. to 3 dois.
CSta.o'iiiia; old, 2 dois. 7 c to 3 dol
Turpentine, per bartel, i do'. 67 c. to 2 dols.
Wine, Madeira, per pipe, 106 di. 67 C. to 2GC d!<
L'(bon, 120 to 126
Teneriffe, per gal. 63.
Fayal, ; 52
Port, per pipe, 110 40 124.
Sherry, per gal. 90 c. to id. 20c.
Tar, New-Jferfey, 24 gal. to the brl. 1 dol.
Carolina, 32 gfcl. 1 dol. 33 c. to 1 dol. 67 c.
Tea, Hyson, per lb. 93 c. to 1 dol. 28 Ck
Hyson skin, 53 c. to 67
Soufhong, 50 c. to 93
Congo, 43 c. to 50
Bohea, 30 c. to 3$
Tobacco, James River, best. psrewt. 3 dols. 60
to 3 dols. 73 c.
Inferior, 2 dols. 67 C. to 3 dols.
Old, 4 dols. 67 c.
Rappahannock, 2 dols. 50 c. tb 3 dol
Coloured Maryland, 5 dl, 33 c. to 8 d
Dark, 2 dols. 40 c.
Long leaf, a do?s. 40 c.
Eastern Shore, 2 dols. to 2 d*»ls. 23 c.
JUST PUBLISHED
By E. Oswald,
(Price Eleven Pence)
FIVE LETTERS,
addrefled to the
Yeomanry of the United States:
CONTAINING tome Observations on th<
Scheme ot Governor Duer and Mr Secrera
y rlamiltcn, to eltablidi National Manufacture)
Uy a FARMER. This pamphlet, so highly iu
;erefting at this period, may be had at the follow
ing places : ar Mr. Olwald's Printing-Office, No
156, Mirket-'.lrett; at No- 200, Market-street
-t Mr. Dobfon's, 41, South Second-street; i
Mr. Cruitlhanks, 91, Market-street; at Mi
Airken's, 22, Market-ltreet; and at Mr. Youb|;
S. W. coiner of Che/hut and Second-Hreets.
Augult 21,
JUST PUBLISHED,
And for sale by the Printer,
JoHnMH.;ulj.och, at No, r. North Third
Street, and by 1110 ft of the Book-
Sellers in this city,
( Price 3/9)
MODERN CHIVALRY;
Containing the
Adventures of Capt. John Farrago
and
Teague O'Regan,
his Servant.
VOLUME 11.
By H. H. BRACKENRIDGE.
Quicquid aguvt Homines, nojlri, Farrago libelli.
Juvenal
To be pullijhed by Subfcnption,
THE
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER
OR
PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Old Conaie'Jd,
From their fir ft Meeting in September 1774
to their final diilblunoti in March 1789,
CtO'M PRISING at full length, every impor
i tant resolution, order, address, declaration
fcc. contained in tlie thirteen volumes of thei
journals—a concise furnmary of the le l ls intereil
ing parts,—an alphabetical lilt of appointments
promotions and refigaatious—a collcifcive viewin
the public expenditures, See. &c.—che whole iit
tended to feive as a fatisfa&ory substitute for thi
original journals, wtich are now out of print, ani
f>f which the entire fubftan.ee, un incumbered wici
official formalities and repetitions, will here b,
io about one fourth of their present bulk,
accompanied with one complete general Index :
Io which will be added, a copious and valuabl:
tolledi on ot original
tatc £Bafieid,
from the Records and Files of Congress,
Containing (either verbatim,or in abftrtfjl
is the cases may severally require) such inter* ft'
ng pieces referred to in the journals, as may with
propriety be permitted to be made pubiic, Viz,
Letters from the different officers employed it
;he public Service during the late war—intercept
id letters ot the enemy——communications froir
governors, state legiliatnres, conventions, anc
:ommittees—drfpatches from agents aud com
uiliioners— inductions--- reports of committee!
>f Congress j and various other authentic docu
ments, tending to throw a light on the important
ivents, to which America owes her present inde
pendence.
In the course of the work, will be introduced,
in their proper places, such parts of the
Secret J^ournald,
as no longer require secrecy.
As soon as 500 copies are fubferibed for, the
work wiH be put to press, to be delivered to lub-
Iciibers, in numbers of 304<)ttav0 pages each, ai
OmeDol lar ,in blue boards. The Hub •
fcription money ivill net be required for the firfl
Number, until che publication is begun and
on the delivery of each number, half a dollar will
be expected in advance for the succeeding one.
To nen-i'ubferibers, the price will be railed.
Subscriptions will be received by the prin
cipal booksellers throughout the Union, an-J by
the Editor.' JOHN CAREY.
AO. 26, Pear-Street, Philadelphia.
*** For fait at this Office.: y Sermons b\
the Rev'd Dr. William Linn, of X, York
Pries 1-2.
NEW-YORK & PHILADELPHIA STAGES.
Via Bordenton and Burlington,
And SHREWSBURY & PHILADELPHIA
STAGE,
Via Bordenton',
THE proprietors of the New-York and Phi-*
ladelphia land and water Stages beg leave to
mention, that for the better accommodation of
pa/Tenders, they have thought proper to remove
the different packet boats from their former stand,
at the Crooked Billet wharf, to the wharf or dock
Immediately next below Arch-ftr«et, from whence,
on the firft day of July next, and afterwards, a
convenient packet-boat will start for New-York,
as usual, on every Sunday, Taefday, Wednesday
and Thursday, and return on every Tuesday,
Thursday, Friday and Saturday. The paflage to
be made either by the way of Bordenton or Bur
lington, each place to be taken alternately. Fare
for paifengers from Philadelphia to New-Yor
15s.— For Goods 6s.
VAN EMBURGH & M'KEAN,
DAVID WILLIAMSON,
Proprietors of the line of New-York and Phi
ladelphia Stages, by the route of Bordenton.
JACOB MYERS,
AMOS HUTCHIN,
NICHOLAS SCHENft,
Proprietors of the line of N. York and Phila
delphia Stages, by the route of Burlington.
The Shrewflvjry Stage will leavs Philadelphia
n ths months of July and September, on every
Sunday and Wednesday, and return on every
Tuesday and Friday. In the month of August,
t will leave Philadelphia on every Sunday arjd
Thursday, and return on every Tuesday and Sa
:urday.
VAN EMBURGH Sc M'KEAN,
DANIEL LOT,
Proprietors of the Shrewsbury and Philad. Stage A
Bordenton, June 25, 17921
For flight or paiUge apply to the makers on
board, or to M'KEAN & VAN EMEURGH,
at their ftorec* said wharf, immediately next be
low Arch-Street j by 'tvbom orders for the purcbafe
f all kinds of grain, paves, or other country fro*
iuce, are punctually attended to.
For freight or palfage to Lamberton or Tien,
ion, aHo apply as above. jaw t
Philadelphia., June 27.
Society for ejlablifoing ufeful Manufactures.
NOTICE is hereby given to the holders
dock in the said society, that the followin
arrangement has been made by the Deputy Go_
err.or and Directors thereof, by a resolution of
the eighteenth day of May, 1792.
The ftcond instalment foi the payment of fliarM
in the (lock of this society, may be made in th«
followiug maaner, viz.
The amount of the said second instalment, be
ing 20 13- too dollars each ftiare, may be paid in
rhree payments, on conditioii that tbe lawful in
terest of 7 per cent, per annum, be calculated
and paid with each proportionate part of the said
payment, that is to fay, on or before the thir
teenth day of August next, the sum of 6 71-100,
with the addition of 12 cents, being the interest
of oce month oa 26 ij-i'oo dollar*—-on or jbe
t'ore the 13th of September next, the sum of 6
71-100 dollars, with the addition of 8 cents, be
ing tbe interest for one month on 13 42-100 dol
lars—and on or before the. 13th of October next,
sum of 6 71-100 dollars, with the addition of
4 ce;>t», being the interest on the fame for one
month. The said payments are to be made at the
following places, viz. In the city of Philadelphia,
at the bank Of the United States—-at New-Brunf
wick, in Netv-Jerfey, to John Bayard, or John
Neilfon, Efq:s—and in the city of New-York, at
the bank of New-Yojk, or either of the said
places, which may be moil convenient to th«
.lock holders.
By order of the dire&ion,
JAMES GRIFFITHS, Clerto
July 24. tf.
FOR SALE,
ABOUT igo,ooo i.cress Land, lying near
Whiteftown, in the (late of New-York, on
the north fide of the Mohawk river, adjoining
Nobleborough, and will be fold either in parcels
or together, as may suit the purchalers.
N. B. The above tra£l «f land is of the firfc
quality in the state, chiefly timbered vviui beach
and ma, !e, well watered, and contains many mill*
feaCs. The peculiar advantages or" this tract, fitu
aced within a few miles of Whiteftown (which
contains upwards of five tboufand iuhabitawts)
wrth an easy and convenient water carriage to
Schenedlady, Albany, and New-York, make it an
object for any persons incline J to iettleit, cind ren
der it an extremely advantageous pui chafe for
persons inclined to realize their money in land of
ad ent'reafing value. The whole tradt or any part
of it, wili be fold very low for cast, or for part
cash, jnd the remaining payments at difiant peri
i.-ds. Enquire at No. 229 near the
Fly-marked.
July 19.
George Town,, June 2, 1792.
A NUMBER of LOTS iii etery f'.tuation
which may be desired in the city of Waft- '
ington, will be offered for sale, by the Commif
froners on Monday the Sth day of Cciob-.r next.
One fourth part of' the purchase money to be
paid dow», the reiidoe in threeecjual anriual pay
ments, with yearly interest on the whole princi
pal unpaki. JOHN M. GANTT,
July *5. Clerk to the Commifiio&ers.
Threrhandfome Editions of the Laws
as the Uniitd Stales for [ale at this office
(cNo. 209 Marketftrett) m feio and octa
vo, either full or half bound—l V.3. The
La ws of the lafl ScJJion y i/t c3a-vo only, may
be hadjelarate, price three eighths of a doliftr.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS and SWAINE,
AT THEIR OFTICE NO. 209, HI
KEAR FIFTH-STREET,
rtiii. Afcsirjy a.