Nums. 59 of Vol. H.] WEDNESDAY, May 22, 1793-
The following is t'-e Subjla'ice of an
address
Presented to M. Genet, by a deputation
from the French Benevolent Society,
eO a blithe cl in this city, cor.hiting o
French, and the defendants ot French
men.
Citizen Mini ft er. . . .
tMP to ihew our refpett and «t
- >ttie nation which you re
prei'ent, and .mrzeal in the cause of liberty
and equality, a, well as our personal
elleem, we have taken this opportunity ti
congratulate you oil your fife arrival in
this city. j .
M i..v amongst us impressed with an in
rate love o. liberty whil r France groaned
under t '.e yoke o-l defpoufin, fought and
found an afvlum in this country, when it
was ttie cradle of infant equality. The
favourable rec- pt.on which we met with
from "«.ir new fellow citizens, the do e
co»neition=, aidmutu d habits which vvc
imbibed here, have ,n ,dc it a new mother
country to u>. But in becoming American
citizen;, we did not cea'e to b rench
jnen. since no individuals can br more
B- -ly connected than a people waofe lig
ation's have bee . so limilar u> eacn otner.
The "retich citizen wh.> has become itili-.
ftted O the Aine." can nation, and the i it, -
Zenofthe Up red States, wnom Franca
ha adopted, have thereby only strengthen
«d the i esof .onn -rtion. •
' A union thus cemented by the blood of
the two aahons, .-id llrengt lened t> (o
ftrcme a iimilarity Of Itiinents and y. ■ i
cip!e£ is abie tn relil- the m>lt violent ef
forts of those vho mav have any l.itereft
in deftro} ■> it ; for liberty tends to unite
jnen, as defpotifrn doth to divide ai.d ue
ftroythem. . ,
Tha miilion witn which you are charges,
invv.fr- tneretor,-. a pleasing duty lmce i
is your to give and receive the assurances
pnd teHnu.Miy of so I'm. ere a friendfh.p,
a"il f> fraternal a union. We will co
oner ite with vou a, far as may be with...
our power, in mai itaimn •. that tellowfhip
an I in preventing the enemies of liberty
si oni dellroyijlg it. .. . .
L t iif be allowed here, as individuals
and Frenchmen, to . ay to our brethren ol
t'n • United -it .tes, the tribute of gratitude
v h their conduct deserves. We nave
been <>r,.nge.s a nongtl them, they have
treated us as brother-, and thty have la
v d heir fric idfhip upon u\ 1 »e>
]k:\ been '.ntluftrious in making ns forgel
th.iC ,vf were not born in the fame coun-
Through ill the extent of the Amer.car
em,>:re, v. e have seen our countrymen ex
perience the f.nne benefits, from the citi
zens who ire ever ready to affilt, and go
vernment as ready to proteit them.
-\cc p- Citizen, our belt withes for the
fu ceft of the - a life w'hii h France has de
t -.mined to fsppoft. We hope that hj
fucii generous efforts they will be enab.ee
to triumph in fpittof the hosts of defpoti
a i (live;, who would attempt to annilu
la.e it.
We i>re happy in having among" u=,
clti'.ei, whoh.i d. served w< il of his conn
try. and who g-vt's us every reason tu ex
p.that he will be «lv. ays acquiring ad
di'e i ralclaims too.ir gratitude and appro
w ion.
' Signed, on brh :lf of th» fnciety,
PETER- S. DuPONCEAU.
To this Adirefs M. Ge-iet made the fol
lowing reply-
Citizen Genet, Minister Plenipotentiary
from the French republic to the I'iench
American! citizens and defemdent* oi
Frenchmen, relident ill Philadelphia.
Citizc j,
THE fame principles andfentiments with
which you ar? animated, dou equal honor
to your uuderltanding* and yor.r hearts ;
"Vou hive exprelied a just idea of the view .
of th 'French republic. Itsaim'istodrav
It 1 closer, the ties tint bind a virtu
ous people who have uiiited by their gene
rous proceeding towards you. your att ch
nient, and your gratitude.
I will exert all my powers to fulfil he in
tentions ol" the republic, and i am perfua-
that on your lide you will negU-ft no
th to prove to the citizens of the Uni
ted States, that Frenchmen regard their
a, brethren.
I w I- take cire to make known to otu
Jii:c-"is inFrance, the address which
yo'U h"iv» p.-efeilted to me, a id I requcl'
you sviil oi pleal'ed to accept ol' my ;>arti
_ j q.. rll „ nays at Three Dollars per annum
By P.FRENEAU-. Publijhcd Wednesdays and oaturda>?i r
cular thanks for the opinion which you
have To obligingly exprell'ed of my zeai
and attachment to the glorious cause of li
berty and equality. GENET.
from the {Bojlon) Indepei.dei t Chronicle
WHEN writers appear on the fubjeft 01
neutrality, it is neceflary that the)
fhouM be explicit in what they mean bj
that term. Ifby neutrally it is meant
that we stand, with refpeft to France, ir.
the fame political connection as we do wit!
England ; and that the fame conduit, it
every particular, is to be purlued with tin
latter, as with the former ; such a )tat<
of neutrality is contrary to our prcfeni
u eaty, and contrary to our interest.
It is denied that we are novj in any trea
ty whatever with England ; it is true. :
treaty was entered into, but it is so fla
grantly viol,.ted by the English, by holding
our frontiers, that it is an affront to tilt
U.ilted States, to be told, that it is binding
upon us. Can any man seriously fay thai
tiie conduct ot England and I ranee, as il
relates to this country, is in the leall de
j.-ee Similar ? Has France, Since the Peace,
encroached upon our territory, a d helc
t monopolize the molt \alu -ble pari
as our trade, or aided and afiilled the na
tives to deftroy'the inhabitants Settled o
jur frontiers ? Has France uccafioiied us
'i i expend mi I lions in a war to del end our -
'elves "against the iucurfions of the Indi
ins ?
A writer in the Centinel, who is fond o)
nonthi'. v over matters ~s they relate to the
i!h. Tins ellabliSht d one position, on
.icii lu ground - 'tis argjn ents vhich ,il
Attended to, will operate highly in favour
)f tii. French, to the exclufionot (he Eng-
Hih; 0,-at leatt will prove that the United
States ought to bring Britain to concede to
limila i i ras, we admit tbtm with
in uurports, on the fame footing with the
French.
The writer fays, " that the rrueft policy
af-a nation eonliSts in Me performance or
ts duties." —To determine our duty, let
us compare the doings ot the two nations.
The Frencn Convention have decreed,
:hat all the ports of the Fre ich clonics
(lionld be open to the veflelsof the United
itates of America. That all merchandize
mportedand exported by American vefl'els,
lhall be fubje£t to such duties as French
veSFels pay That all laws with regard to
rhefale of timber and American vefl'els be
revoked. Tiiefe are the important deciSi
am of the National Convention in favour
of the United States—This is the encou
ragement given to our commerce by the
French—This is the friendship displayed
bv that nation.
Let the advocates for Britain produce
(injilar proceedings in the British parlia
ment, and then they will have some color
of pica, that the two nations Hand or,
equal ground with rtfpeft to America.—
On the contrary, our trade is (hackled ir
every part of the English territory ; and
our navigation is embarrafTed by exceflive
duties and prohibitions.
C m any man who feels for the honor
and interest of his country, fay, that when
the two Ambafl'adors ot" England and
France iipwear before the Executive ol
these Stales ; one holding in his hand;
terms of mutual friendfiiip, offering an al
liance founded 011 the most liberal nation
al principles ; the other having not the
most diliant appearance of afriendiv over
ture, but probably bound up with instruc
tions to retain our Frontiers,and to ptirfuc
the famecourfe of commercial embarraff
rnents they have long pracYifed: Can an\
man fay, that the two nations are entitled
to equal favours ! Can they be thought U
(land on the fame ground of national po
lity ?
If we are to follow the portion laid
down by the writer referred to,our condufl
is clear bet ore us. It-is our "duty" ti
oblige the F.ngliOi to comply with theii
treaty, and surrender our frontiers ; and it
is botn our policy, interest and " duty'
that thp embarrafi'ments & reftrittions un
der which our commerce labours by their
aits of parliament. Humid be removed.
Provided an ambefiador from the Bri
tish court should con e forward, it is our
' duty " (as a nation that mean to main
t tin their rights) to be explicit in our de
mands, and before any terms are riegocia
ted, toinliftupona decision by the British
equally as favourable to our commerce,
sis made by the French ; -when this is
done, it will follow, 41 that an impartial
and unequivocal "neutrality between ths
contending parties is our duty"—but while
things remain as they do, and every ad
vantage is taken of us by ihe Britilh, in
>ur commerce, and our frontiers are held
by them contrary to treaty, an ast of im
partiality, is an ait cf " perfidy" to the
French nation.
This writer, though a pretended advo
cate for impartiality, isinfa£t partial in fa
vour of the Englijh. The reflection thrown
on the French, as to their -'errors and
crimes," their frantic enthusiasm, and im
probability ot their success," are all the
eifufions of a mind prejudiced againlt their
rising republic. But the errors and crime:
of Britain and the r sanguinary measure:
throughout every part otthe world where
ver the British flaj has been difplaye'd art
topics which this impartial writer
lo fupprtfs.
The author does not wilh usto be enga
ged in the prefeut war ; but while the
n itions of Europe are aliening their right"
and vindicating their honor, he is defirou:
that the United States fliould not be inat
tentive to theirs. \Ve have now an op
portunity to aflert our claims, and main
tain the dignity and independence of oui
government, against the arbitrary, uijwar
i antable proceedings of the Britilh. It i
our " duty" to act with resolution, anc
no longer submit to the indignity, whicl
for so many yeays we have experiepctt
from them. By t^ei;*-conduct we havi
been put to the expence of millions, by ;
war with the" Ijitl »ns, and millions more
will soon be expended in conference o;
their retaining our frontiers.
It may be enquired whether it is meani
that the United States should be engat'ec
intheprefent war againlt England ?—B)
no means. It is for out interest to keef
clear of war with any of the powers ol
Europe. Itisgood polKy to adheVe ftr'.ft
ly to the modern of nations ; but al
this may be done,a/'rf at the ja'>-e time vin
dicate the Jovereig ty and honor cf tht
States. We have an undoubted right tc
:lemand afnrrenderof our posts, a&reeabl)
;<> treaty, without becoming a party in the
prefeut war ; We are entitled to the poffef
iion of our own territory, and the privile
ges ot our internal commerce, let the con
cert among the nations of Europe be what
:hey may.
Their contentions ought not to make us
more inattentive toour "duty." If En
gland is engaged in a war with France, i:
thisareafon « hy we fliould relinquilh our
just claims ? Or fliould we demand a com
pliance with their treaty, is this any rea
son why they (liou)d conlider us as parti
r..ins in favour of France? We are willing!
that they Ihould vindicate their rights a
gainst any power whatever ; but at the
fame time, they cannot expert that we will
surrender ours, to accommodate them,
lftncre i any fault in this bufinel's, it is or
the lide of the EngliHi, as we only al}'. foi
that t»*n'itory which they ought many
years since to ha'je J'urrenderecl. —We de
mand a commerce which they have ?nono
polized for along while to our injury.
As t'ree, fovcrcign and independent
States, we have a right (without a bre.i'.!
of neutrality) to regulate our own inter
nal conduit- —We have an undoubted right
tu give peculiar; advantages to nation
w\thin our irw>i ports. —If one nation a;
war, will give us ccrtain commercial pri
/ileges, while the other refnfes them, we
lave a right to reciprocate the benefits,
md allow them exclusive advantages: For
:iltance—all French prizes might be fold
hi our ports, free of any duty, while the
Englilh should be subject 10 such .rtjlricii
iins and duties as are thought proper
While we refrain aiding, .betting, or car
rying any articles which are deemed
contraband, we are ftriitiy neutral- But
[he internal regulations of our govern
ment. as they refpeft nations, upon the
principle of miprocty, mufb be admitted
consonant to the laws of nations, and can
not, in any sense, be considered as other
wise.
Upon the whole, if France and Englanc;
are to be coufidered on equal terms, the
latter mil ft firft place themselves on equal
terms with us. They mult qualify them
selves for such treatment, by coming for
ward on the fame liberal ground with the
French, by giving the f.-.me encouragement
to our navigation and commerce, and bj
quitting our frontiers. Let them show ti
dii'pofition equally as friendjv as the French
and the fame advantages will be granti'J
them within our ports. But till this is done,
though we mean to adhere to a stria neu
[Total No. 163.]
crality, according to the modern ill age of
nations, yet it is our dutv". to give ex
clusive privileges in the sale of , mtrchan
dize, &c. to I'uch nations as are disposed to
ailiit our navigation and commerce. '
A DEMOCRAT.
On Friday afternoon last, the
the citizens ol Philadelphia, agreeable
to notification for that purpofe,'attend
ed a meeting in the State-hotife garden.
An address congratulating Mr. (jenet
on his arrival was' read, and unani
mously adopted—lt was immediately
presented to the minister, at the city
tavern, and is as follow : • •'
To Edmund Charles GENET, minister
plenipotentiary from the republic ot,
France, to the United States, THE,
ADDRESS ps the citizens of Philadelphia.
SIR, ' .
The citizens of Philadelphia are anxious
to convey their congratulations upon xour
arrival, in terms the moll cordial and ac
ceptable. We have, with pleasure, on for
mer occaflons, acknowledged our pliliga
tions, and declared our attachment, to the
people of France ; but, at this moment, we.
are peculiarly gratified, by recognizing in
the Mipifier of ot'.r firit and be ft ally s
representative of a free republic,
Imprefied with the value of our political
independence ; recollecting, >vitli an honest
pride, the glory and success, which in pin-"
suit of that object, crowned the virtue and
fortitude of America ; and eltimaiing (hp
present reputation and prosperity of the u
nion, as bicffings refultingfronl ;he revolu
tion; >ve cannot without gratitude. cdn!i
der, how great a portion of our tri yniph
and our happiuefs, was derived froijp'the
zealous and chlinterefted aid >>f your coun
trymen j nor can we y ithout diflimulati
jn, suppress our joy, that ill-; pation,
which so generonfiy contributed to
the liberties of America, has, at lengtfri
cvith unparalleled magnanimity,
her own.
For such feelings, fir, welijve n?-
urally led to contemplate the ftrugeles ot
France with a paternal eye ; iympatoiling
nail her calamities ; and exulting in all
ler fyccelfes : but there is another interefl, 1
he interest of freedom and which
idds to the force of our afi'eciian, and fen
lers the cause of France important to eve
■y republic, and dear to all liyniaii
ace.
Beaflured, therefore, that justly regard
ng the cultivation of republican principles,
is the best security for the permanency Vy
>ur own popular governments, vl e rflt oiii;
"avorite hopes, .at this mohit I'ti us' crisis,
311 the conduit of France; and. earyfljj
jiving to the national exertion,'
nid our prayers, »e cannot i i lift the'pleaf.
ng hope, that although America is not a
sai ty ill til? exi fling war, {he irav pi!)
ihle, in a state of peace, to denn i (irate
;he sincerity of her frienc'fhip, by affording
:verV ufefnl afliftante to the citizens of lit;
ifter republic. '
The well earned character of a repuhlic
in and a patriot, has enftired l'pr yoii the.'
ivarmeft sentiments of personal refpeft and
eileem : and, while the law of
ind the rights of treaty, give dignity'anc]
energy to your official Itation ; the fiidea
,-ours of the citizens will not, *ve.tr\ift, fie
.iietteflual, in rendering your ref.dcnce
Philadelphia, agreeable to you, and hoji :
Durable to otirfelves.
Signed by order of the meeting,
CHARLES BIDDLE Chainnaj),
Philadelphia, 17th May 1793.
Attell.
ROBERT HENRY DUNKIN, Pec.
The citizens ailembled, expicffing a
Tire to accompany their committee in pre
renting the address to (:he miuijler., iiio
gentlemen were appointed to "afceftaki of
what time it would be convenient to hijn
to receive it ; and they returned in a fey/
niinute- with the following repprt : Thsjt
" Mr. Genet had e.:pi effed a high sense of
the compliment intended to be paid him
the citizens of Philadelphia, that he was so.
licitous to avoid giving them the trojible of
another meeting, &. that if the} \\ mild ac
cept the Spontaneous effulions of Jiis heart
which; however deficient in point offoym,
would not be deficient in point of (inceritv,
as an anfwerr to the adejiefs, he would be
happy to receive it immediately, leaving
till the ensuing day the ceremony of 4
written Reply."
Tjie citizens teftified their approbation
of the Minilier's proportion with re'itei
ted Ihouts, and apjioinftd the follow»members of the meeting as a committee to
preterit tlie address.
Charles Biddle, Robert H. Dunkin, Da
vid Rittenhotife, Jonathan IX Serjeant.
James Hutchinfon, P. S. Du Ponceau, Ed
ward Fox, William Barton, J. A Dallas,
Jacob Morgan, William Coates, John Bar
ker, Thomas Profctor, Joseph Kerr. John
Stagg, John Nicholfon, William Irvine,
Jonathan B. Smith, Tench Francis, Mayor
Boyde, John Barclay, James Karr, James
Reed, Matthew Lawler, William Will,
James Moore, Thomas Lee Shippcn, Is
rael Israel. John Harrifon, Matthew Ir
vine, William Bower, William Shippen,
William Adcock, Jacob Lawerfyler, Wil
liam Nichols, Isaac Wikotf, John Swan
wick, John Smith, Benjamin Franklin
Bache, Patrick Moore, John Dnnlap. Tho
mas Leiper, Matthew Carey, Henry Kmi
rnerer, William 'joodfellow, John Porter,
George Weftcoat, Thomas Willis, Willi
am Kidd, Thomas Billington, and Jacob
G. Koch,
The committee, preceded by the chair
man. and followed by anjinmenfe body of
citizens, walking thres a-breaft, having
arrived at the City-Tavern, were intro
duced to M. GENET, and after the accla
mations, as well in the house as i» the
streets, had ceased, the address was deli
vered, at the close of which the house
and the streets again resounded with con
2ratulations andapplaufe.
M. GENET, evidently affe&ed with the
warmth of the public attachment thus con
veyed, as soon as silence was restored. de
livered an extempore reply, in terms that
touched the feelings of every auditor, and
of which memory can serve to give but a
very faint idea. He observed. that he
ivas not an orator, and should not at any
time affefl the language of eloquence, that
even, however, in uttering the genuine
and spontaneous sentiments of his heart,
on an Occasion so interesting and so flatter
ing, he experienced fonie embarrafiments
arlfing from his defective acquaintance
with the language in which he was about
to /peak, but this defect he was certain
freemen would readily excuse, if they
were convinced of the sincerity of the
sentiments which he should deliver.
Pie then adverted to the address,
and acknowledged in the most pathetic ex
preflions, the sense which he and his fellow
citizens rauft entertain in finding so noble
an avowal of the principles of the revolu
tion in France, and so cordial an esteem
for her citizens, existing in a country, for
which (he had spilled her blood, disbursed
her treasures, aad to which file is allied by
tne dearefl fraternal sentiments, and the
moftimportant political interefb," France,
Continued M. Genet, is furiouuded with
difficulties ; but her cause is meritorious,
It is the cause of mankind and mnli pre
vail. With refpeA to you, I will declare
ope ily and freely, for the minister of a re
public should have no secrets, no intrigue,
that from the remote lituation of America
and other circumstances, she does not ex
pert that America should become a party in
the war, but, remembering that (lie has
already combated for your liberties—and
if it was neceflary, and she had the power,
would cheerfully again enlilt in your cause,
we hope, and every thing I hear and fee
allures me our hope will be realized, that
her citizens will be treated as brothers in
danger and distress. Under this imprefli
on, my feelings at this moment are inex
preflible, and when I transmit your ad
dress to my fellow-citizens in France, they
will consider this day as one of the happiest
of their Infant Republic."
It is impossible to describe with adequate
energy, the scene that succeeded. Shouts
and salutations were not unancompanied
xvith other evidences of the effe£t which
this interesting interview had upon the
paiUons of the parties who were engaged
in it. From the citizens in the room. M-
Genet turned h's attention to the citizens
who were aflembled in the streets, addref
fingthemina few, but emphatic senten
ces froin one of the windows.
The committee having thus discharged
the duties of their appointment, took "an
affectionate leave of M. Genet, and re
turned with their fellow-citizens in peace
and order. Every man who had joined in
the address, departed with this virtuous
and patriotic fatisfa£tion, that he had at
once teftified his gratitude to a faithful al
ly, in the hour of her distress; and de
monstrated his attachment to those repub
lican principles, whicli are the basis of the
American government.
At 12 o'clock on Saturday morning, M.
Genet, agreeably to his intention previous
ly expressed, delivered in writing to the
committee, a copy of the following ans
wer to the address.
Citizen Genet, Minister Plenipotentiary
from the republic of France, to the Citi
zens of Philadelphia.
CITIZENS,
IF gratitude be not acknowleged a vir
tue among despots, it is evidently such a
mong freemen. Of this truth I have re
ceived abundant proofs, on my journey
from Cahrlefton to Philadelphia. In eve
ry place the general voice of the people
convinced me in a most sensible manner of
their real sentiments and sincere & friendly
dispositions towards the nation which I
have the honour to represent, and for the
advancement of that common cause which
(lie alone fnpports with Co nuich courage.
Citizens, your addrcfs has completed my
fatisfaftion, and I assure you that the day
your brethren in France fliall reccive it,
will be a day of gladness to them. This I
anticipate, that from the effect it has had
upon myfelf, it will have the fame up
on them, from those wife and liberal
sentiments, those just and excellent ideas,
which are its chara&eriftics.
In my private capacity of a citizen, I am
highly flattered with the favourable opini
on you have formed of me; and I promise
to make every exertion in my power to
render myfelf worthy of that good opinion
& to |uftify the confidence my conntry has
reposed ill me. My conduit while among
you fliall be to the height of our national
political principles—An unbounded open
ness shall be the constant rule of my inter
course with those wife and virtuous men
into whefe hands you hava intruded the
management of your public affairs. I will
expose candidly to thein the great objects
on which it will be our business to delibe
rate, and the common interest ps both na
tions will, I have no doubt, be the compass
ofourdireition ; for without such a guide,
what would become of both France and
America, exposed as we mutually are tc
the resentment, the hatred, and the trea
chery of all the tyrants of the earth, who,
you may reft afl'ured, are at this moment
armed notonly against France, but against
liberty itfelf.
(Signed) GENET.
On the fame day, a Committee appointed
by the German republican society of Phila
delphia, waited on Mr. Genet, Minister
Plenipotentiary from the Republic ol
France to the United Sfates, with the fol
lowing ADDRESS.
Citizen Genet, Minister Plenipotentiary
from the Rspublic of France, to the
United States of America—
SIR,
THE German republican society of Phi
ladelphia congratulate yon as the represen
tative of the people of France, on your fate
arrival in this city—We welcome you with
heart felt joy to this land of liberty, which
your generous and gallant nation contri
buted to make happy—We feel the liveli
est sympathy for the diftrefles of our repub
lican brethren, who are combating the fel!
hosts of tyrants, in defence of their own
natural rights, and the rights of mankind ;
and deplore that a nation from whom we
are defended, Ihould be among the firft in
the confjiiracy against liberty—Wc set
with pain and horror the confederation ol
all European despots against freedom, theii
united efforts to supersede thegeneral wil<
of France; but though foes encompass hei
brave sons, we trust that the arm nerved by
liberty will be invincible, and that the mil
lennial of political happiness is opening it;
profpetts upon them. The combinations ol
the sovereignty of the people are the only
security for general liberty and happiness,
and we flatter ourselves these will be at
length so well understood, as to fix the
rights ofman upon an immoveable balis, and
that the French nation will give an exam
ple to the European world, of rulers and
ruled having but one objefl and one will—
THE GOOD OF THEIR COUNTRY.
With our best wishes for the perpetual
union and freedom of our refpe£tiverepub
lics, and for your full enjoyment of every
blefling, which can serve the glorious cause
in which you are embarked,
We are,
With sentiments of republican affection,
Your friends.
By order of the society,
Henry Kammerer, President.
Michael Lieb, l Secretaries
Andrew Geyer, J
Philadelphia, May 17th, 1793.
To which the Ambaflador returned the
following
ANSWER:
To the German Republican Society o!
Philadelphia—
Citizens,
I HAVE had the fatisfaftion of spending
several years of my life among the people
of Germany,and during myftay with them,
knew how to esteem and refpeft those in
dividuals, whom the abfiird prejudices of
birth, and the difgraceful habits offlavery,
had not entirely estranged from humanity.
It was ever my opinion, that this great na
tion would enthusiastically rouse itfelf to
vindicate and maintain with invincible
ftrmnefs, the sacred flame of liberty, as
soon as it could free itfelf from the incum
brance of its monftrotis constitution : That
desirable event has not yet, however, ta
ken place. The lioftf ofdefpots that have
pofleffed themselves of the sovereignty of
the German people, still continue to rivet
their chains upon them : I am convinced,
however, my opinion is well founded, not
withstanding, and that Germany will yet
be FREE.
The republican sentiments that animate
the hearts of all those I have had an op
portunity of feeing beyond the limits ol
their own unfortunate country, are a con
vincing proof to me, that this will be the
cafe ; and under such a view of things, ft)
important to the sincere friends of huma
nity, I cannot express how much your ad
dress has excited my sensibility.
I lhall miflce your sentiments known to
my fellow citizens, and haveno doubt they
will receive, with the most lively marks
of fatisfaftion, the good wishes you have
exprcfTed for thefticcefs of their arms and
the extension of their principles.
GENET.
May 18, 1793-
To the Editor of the National Ga.
ZETTE.
A S many persons, from diffance of time,
may have forgotten the terms of our
treaties with France, it may not be amiss
for you to re-publifb the 17th, 21ft, 22d,
and 23d articles of the Treaty of Amity
and Commerce between this conntryand
France, made the 6th of Fehruary 1778.
It is the intereff and duty of the United
States to preserve a neutrality between the
belligerent powers of Europe; but it (hould
be remembered that this neutrality can
only observed by our conforming to the
treaties we have made. With Great-Bri
tain we have no treaty but the treaty of
Peace—with other nations, and particu
larly with France, we have treaties of
Amity and Commerce. None of these
treaties require us to involve ourselves in a
war to support the quarrels of other na
tions ; but the breach of treaty with any
nation may be the means of involving us in
war with that nation.
As AMERICAN.
The articles referred to are these :
Article 17. It (hall be lawful for the
(hips of war of either party, and privateers,
freely to carry whithersoever they please,
the (hips and goods taken from their ene
mies, without being obliged to pay any duty
to the officers of the admiralty or any other
judges; nor (hall such prizes be arretted
or seized when they come to, and enter the
ports of either party ; nor (hall the search
ers or other officers of those places search
the fame, or make examination concerning
the lawfulnefs of such prizes ; but they
may hoilf (ail at any time, and depart and
carry their prizes to the places exprt Ted in
their commissions, which the commanders
3ffuch fliips of war (hall be obliged to (hew:
an the contrary, no (helter or reftige (hall
be given in their ports to such as (hall have
made a prize of the fubjeffs, people or pro
perty of either of the parties ; but if such
(hall come in, being forced by (frefs of wea
ther, or the danger of the sea, all proper
means shall vigorouflv used, that they go
out and retire from thence as soon as pof
lible.
Article 21. No fubjefts of the mod chri
stian king (hall apply for or any com
midion, or letters of marque for aiming any
(hip or Oiips to ast as privateers agninft the
(aid United States, or any of them, or a
gainst the fubjeffs, people or inhabitants ol
the said United States, or any of them, 01
Jgainft the property of ahy of the inhabi
tants of any of them, from any prince, 01
with which the said United State;
lhail be at war. Nor (hall any citizen,
fubjeft, or inhabitant of the United States,
>r any of them, apply tor or take any com
mission or letters of marque for arminj
jny (hip or (hips to ast, as privateers againfl
:he fubjefts of the mod christian king, 01
iny of them, or the property of any of them
"rom any prince or (fate with which the
"aid king (hall be at war ; and if any per
"on of either nation {hall take such CDinmif
ions or letters of marque, he shall be pu
lifhed as a pirate.
Article 22. It (hall not be lawful for an)
Foreign privateers, not belonging to
fubjeffs of the most christian king, nor citi
zens of the said United States, who have
cpmmiffions from any other prince or (fate
111 enmity with cither nation, to fit their
(hips in the ports of either the one or the
other of the aforelVd parties, to fell what
they have taken, or in any other manner
whatsoever ro exchange their (flips, mer
chandizes, or any other lading; neither
lhall they be allowed even to purchase vic
tuals, except such as shall be neceflary
for their going to the next port of that
prince or slate from which they have com
miflions.
Article 23. It (hall be lawful for all and
lingular the fubjefts of the most christian
king, and the citizens, people and inhabi
tants of the said United States, to fail with
their (hips with all manner of liberty and
security, no diftinffion being made, who
are the proprietors of the merchandizes la
den thereon, from any port to the places
of those who now are or hereafter shall be
at enmity with the most christian king, or
the U. States. It (hall Ijkewife be lawful
for the fubje&sand inhabitants aforefaid,
to fail with the (hips and merchandizes
aforementioned, and to trade, with the
fame liberty and security from the places,
ports and havens of those who
of both or either party, without any oppo
sition or disturbance whatfoe% er, not only
directly from the enemy aforementioned to
neutral places, but also from oneplace be
longing to an enemy, whether they be un
der the jurifdiffian of the fame prince, or
under federal. And it is hereby ftipuiated.
that free ships (hall also give a freedom to
goof's, and that every thing shall be deem
edtobefr?e ami exempt which fii.ill !-e
found on board the fliips belonging to the.
fubjefts of.either of the confederates, al
though tile vholelading, or any part there -
offhould appertain to the enemies ofeither,
coriti aband goods being always excepted.lt
isalfo agreed in like manner,that the Dine
berty be extended to persons who are on
board,a free ship, with this HFeCt, that al
though they be enemies to both or either
party, tiiey are not to be ta*e>) oui of ihat
free (l\ip, unless they are fohl;' md in ac
tual service of the enemies
To the EDITOR of the NATIONAL
GAZETTE.
THE genuine difplav of affeCHon r ifve
cause of France, by the citiz^;on the
arrival of the minister, has once more a
bashed ariflocracy, and hailed i ■;i. a! ; ty tri
umphant. The boforas of m: . v hundred
freemen beat high with affectionate tratif
port, their fouls caught the ce'.tilial fire of
[trnggling liberty, and in the enthuliafm of
emotion, they communicated their feelim/i
to the worthy and amiable rej»refeniati\e.
of the French nation. What a delicious
repaftfor a mind interested in the cripfe of
humanity! There is something ennobling
even in the contemplation of liberty ; but
the energy of philanthropy, which its pre
lence imparts to the foul, exalts and puri
fies human nature. Incommunicable and
incomprehensible as this is to the well-born
of the earth, it is not less difficult than.the
aflimilation of virtue and vice. We have
an amphibious kind of char*£ler, which is
neither pofl'eli'ect of qualities to give it dif
tinfiion, nor modelly enough to mike it
content with the humble vale of equality,
that sickens at every exhibition of the so
vereignty of the people ;thefe.like the ani
mal plant, fhrinkfrom their approach, into
the clcft of infignificance. — May they ever
hide their djminifhed heads 1
The contrast, which (he conduCf of the
citizens, friends to the cause of freedom,
formed with that of the merchants, who.
Simulated by the fordid considerations of
felf-intereft alone, had the moriefty in
their own names and with their own Jet j'e,
to speak the sense of PENNSYLVANIA,
mulf give a charm to the characters of the
one, while it reflects dishonor upon the o
thers. The nilk a'ld water produ&ion of
sycophancy, which was carried in procrjft
on, was as delfitute of energy, as devoid
ofdignified and manly exprefiion, as the
motives which produced it were devoid of
the genuine spirit of liberty It was a cli
max of weakness and of fertility. Penn-- 1
fvlvania has not yet depreciated so far from
the character which she sustained durijig
the late revolution, as to fifffer the nobie
feelings of gratitude to be entombed in
Britifli influence and Britifli corruption,
and to prostrate the republican charaClerat
the shrine of Plnttts. Let the mercenary
band, who balk in the fun-ftiine of court
favour, and who, in the accumulation of
wealth, forget the dignity of man, and the
fsvage character of the people around
whom they entwine themselves, and 'iie
barbarous means they used to bend our
necks to the iron yoke of Britain, let !'u m
declare themselves neutral, neutral to e
very feeling but that excited by money;
let them declare themselves opposed to
countenancing the French Republic ; but
let them remember, that in so doing, a
sentiment so ungrateful, so unworthy,
reaches not beyond the limits of mercantile
apathy, or of Biitijli influence. —Eroclcy
motions unfanftioned by preceding law:,
and procefiions of merchants, are equally
indifferent to freemen, when opposed to
the rational dictates of the head, and the
warm impiilfe of the heart —Thanks to
our God, the foiiereig'ity flill resides with
the PeoPle, and that neither pro-l.i
mations, nor royal demetnor and J'ate can
prevent them from exercifirg it. Of tli'-
the independent freemen of this iretrop oi s
gave a (irikingexample in tlieir reception
«f Mr. Genet! Tho' neutrality was en-,
joined by proclamation, or in other words
indifference to the French cauff. or if yon
please, an equal affeCtion for all the belli -
gerent powers (Great-Sntain aniongft the
number !) they were not to be the flaviih
receivers of proclamatorV principles, nor
to be deterred by them from acting as be
came the dignity of freemen, and citizens
under the dominion of a virtuous fenlibili
ty. —Fellows, as some of the would be
noblefi'e of our country, termed the ref
peCtaMe citizens, who walked In the pro
cession to congratulate the mjnifier, sup
ported the tottering fabric of liberiv a
gainst the machinations of such wretches,
who fancy themselves of a gender too per
fect to herd with the people, and at this
moment sustain the virtue andindepei.-H ' ce
of the American character. — Are there any
fellows in a freegovemment but those who
tranfgi ess the laws, ox thoje-v.ho apply the
degradii g epithet to the people ? T he man
who confpiresagainft his neighbour's rights,
and the man who attempts my life or
plunders me of my property, are fellows
alike \ they ate both murderers and rob
bers. Let such fellows beware,-^:''''/> onl*
"makes the man, & want of it the feljow,
in a land of equality; and an infulttd peo
ple may give them a fcrioi lefbn, th::t
their worth is of a d iTerent rait from t'v t
which ignorance cr vanity n- have ut'ght
them to belie v eThe noble fhnpl'eitj which (lie mimfter
ofthe French Nation displayed on hisjour
jiey and entry into th-> city, carried the
facsrofgenuine repubMcanifm. Tiu>' he is
the reprefeutative of the molt ptiifiant Ke
pubtic upon e.'.rth. he hail no princely e
quipage to featter brill ance around him,
and excite the adniiratio 1 of the gaping
multitude ; he had no cavalcade of ser
vants to dilpl iv his Superiority, bnt his
fplendonr and cfiguity coniiited in a virtu
pus simplicity.
When the human mind was immersed
In ignorance, forms and ceremonies vrn o
thought eflential to religion, and /uper.ti
tioi usurped the empire of reason ; but
those ihackles ave been broken by truth,
and the parity of the gofjel has received
additional strength trbm itsprefent liinpli
city ; in lilce manner, ostentation, fpten
dor, and parade were thought necessary
roi-nprefs tie «• fvvinith multitude"' vvitli
ideas of superiority and sovereignty ; but
astlie lawful sovereignty is now eftabliihed
and the people know the importance ol
their rights and the dignity oi their cha
racter. every royal tolly of this fort mil 1 -
be coniid?rcd by, them as an insult upon
their underftandiiigs, and an ufiirpatiou of
their prerogative. Simplicity is a gem of
i-epublicanifin ; it gives a native, unfophif
ticatc-d bril! ance, incomparably faperior to
the glimmering of royal baubles. —May the
dignity of an American conlift in virtue,
and not in the externals of t'ollv !
J It mutt not be imagined from what I
have laid, that my voice is for war. Could
we render France any etTewtial atliftance,
war would be our dutyjt would be oui
Surfty ; out the alii (fan.e which we can gi'e
her, may he better accomplithed in peace
Tho' achi I hoflility is not my with, it is a
to America to plic.e France upon
the Tame faming with the powers with
whom the is at war ; for, according to the
laws of nations we can fulfil any defenlivc
engagements with' her, without trefp tf
fing upon the Invs of neutrality.—lf it i<
the iitere/i of Great-Britain to goto war
with us, a pretext will not be wanting ;
for the has pretexts at command, and Ihe
h*s hitherto toilful ted her interest at the
expense of every honorable principle.Shall
we, for fear of giving offence to Great-
Britain. behave with a difgraceful apathy
to the minifte.-ot France, astlie big men
of our country with us? Is it a trefpaf;
upon neutrality, to give the minilVer ol
France the reception of gratitude? Pity
that gratitude Ihould only glow-i.l the bo
foms of the people ! Should the exprefliom
of interest for the cause of France, and the
mulifeltatio.ts of joy for her fuccelfes be
declaratory of hostility, let the trumpet ol
war found thro'our country; for rather
let America join in the combat wirh Frame
than forfeit her honor and her virtue.
AN OL J SOLDIER.
May 20th, 179'?.
[From the V irginia Chronicle, of May 11.
'• The light of freedom which Americ;
hath Itruck out, has reliefer! to Frince
and kindled ablaiewhkh l.iysdefpotifm i'
ashes, and is illuminating the world. Man
kind has hitherto groar.ee! under despots
aid the belt and d .-arelt intt re Kof 'f >( iet\
fc ivg fallen victims to their palfim, and foi-
I'.;;; but a da vn of better times i', open
ing. and the example of France will in
crease it iuto agi rimis effu gence. A re
generation of human affairs is begun, tin
dominion of kings is changed for a domin
ioi of laws, and the arts of priests aiu
pri'eftcrr.ft are annihilated by reason art
confcieuce. That no adv 'fe event m )
prevent the happy iomp 0.1, mutt be;
" t vnfmn nation .devoutly to be wifiiec
for" by every v: -.nous friend of mankinc
throughout the universe. Well may th;
oppreii 1 , of the world and the supporter:
ofQa villi government a id hierarchies trem
ble—We need not wonder when we fee
them marfhail theV mercenary ruffians to
i" pprefs aljjirit x hich threatensdeftruftioi:
t" them a vi 1 leir arbitrary impolicions.—
Their confederacy isnatnraJ;3s accomplices
in the fame villainy they will endeavour t;
efrape frujn justice, by every method whic!
art can inve it or power execute. Tho
jcnliimniesand misrepresentations of a prof
ligate band of courtiers, placemen ant
peulinners, v. ere reasonable Co expect; the)
are the expiring Itrnggles of despotism—
But—that Americans, who are enjoying al
tire Ivieli. i whit h can refill t from s
mild and equal reprefentativegovernment
should raise their voi es in the cry of abuf<
Hgai'.ift our republican brothers in France
1 i a ciilumltaiiLe ynylt excite '.he won
der of the wo Id. Upon principle of ho
nour, gratitude and decency, I blush for
my couuirv.u iiile I feci the tent'.ei efl anx
iety for her political happineis—where is
jthat love of republicanifni. and deteftatior.
of monarchy which once animated our ci
tizens' I fay where is it fled? Or how
came fnch abominable heretics as we now
perceive introduced among us? Asfar as I
am able I will point out by what means
pin- principles have beeu corrupted, and
by w hom—ln doing this it is not my inten
tion to re-kindle aniuiolitie which bene
volence and philanthropy had configneil
to oblivion, or to open wounds which hai e
already bied enough—neither would I with
to undervalue the ft rvit es of those whole
countijs and arjiis have contributed to the
eftabliihment of the republic—Uninfluen
ced by resentment againit one, or detraction
from the other, I (hall with candour inves
tigate their principles and expole their at
tempts —I fnall begin with those to whom
I last alluded.
When the American revolution com
menced, all who advocated it did not a£t
from a love of republicamfm or a hatred oi
monarchy—it was nor against the princi
ples of the government that many were
>ppofed,but igainlt the arbitrary measures
of George the third—of this description
were many of the leaders of the revolution
—They were men who disdained the idea
ot a foreign yoke, and cxpected to raise for
themselves honors and dignities which they
could not hope for under the former go
vernment —Let fa£ts (peak for what I ad
vance. No sooner were the enemy driven
from our country, then arillocrntic princi-
began to appear, by the inflitution ot
:i i hereditary or.ler ;b it ilie genius of re-
Hibiica nfu) was on the watch, and the pro
jjet was dropped. A society was then in
tituted which does honor to the benevo
e ice of its members. Shortly alter pam
jhlets and publications were iflued frun:
.he nigheft authority, in order to (hew tin
uecellity of civil diliinitions. Rcpublicai
principles of government were treated a
:he vilions of ih-oretical politicians, or the
pretexts of deligning demagogues.—-1 he
ojell born and the ballances were then re
ceived with difgult and abhorrence ; noi
,vill the paneoyncks of fyropliants in Ame
rica, or the applaules of the Attorney Gen
eral of England, reintlate t d/jti'.guijhea
per/an in the gene. al confid. nee of his fel
low citizens —Defeat and difappoimment
do not always beget fulmiflion; ambition i
ever on the watch to fe.ze the moment it
forward its views.
The persons to whom I firfl alluded are
tnofe whom our clemency permittee! to re
main among us during the war, and other .
whom a more miltaken lenity permitted tt
eturn amon,; us lince the peace, and wen
well knoMii under the denomination 01
cories. Without enlarging by a d ffe tation
ju such perfo/is, the bare mention o. whom
uuft excite indignation, I (ball only re
mark that a coalition has taken place be
ween the tories of seventy-six, and the
American nobility of eighty-nine. The
jafis of this famous coalition was, that one
party Ihould make luch conceflions as would
forward the views of the other. It was
:hus that the trade of this country has been
"tcrifked to Britain, while her friends ha\ e
promoted the plans of certain aspiring men.
New fyltems in politics have been introdu
ed, and our government assimilated to that
of Great Britain, as nearly as pofiible.
It is some what remarkable how conge
nial the lentiments of the former tories,
rbe British in tine counti y, and tliofr of the
funded interert are with : efpect to French
fan ; as far as my observation has ex
ended, I t an make no exceptions, for they
ire all enemies to the freedom of France
the caufcs of this harmony offemiment
we will not invefligate, but I trul> the
truth of the position w'lll not be denied—
but fbould an exception to this rule b.
found, I will ask pardon, though 1 (han
no: forbear to exclaim rara ami in tern
Li 'roque firyiillima cygno.
It is now high time for the republican;
to watch the conduit of this coalition —It;
measures will jultify more than suspicion.
L has p iflefled itfelf of prt fies that are de
i 1 ited to its views, and which are made the
echoes of British ministerial papers. I dial 1
make no alluiion to any particular paper,
but I will venture to aflert that the paper
which is subservient to such baJe purpose;
u unworthy of the patronage of republics*!
Americans. In a word, the enemies o:
Frcuch freedom are equally our enemies,
and equally merit our resentment, and
Towever they may flatter themselves, I
uuft they will find that America and
Prance have one common interest; in-de
pite of the intrigues of Britifli emissaries
ind American arillocrates to divide us."
FOREIGN' A D V 1 C E S.
Leyden, March 28. France has now at
"ea, and armed ready for sea, one hundred
and ninety four lhips of war, exclulive of
?un boats and cutters. In addition to
ihele, s t!le l' ne have just been
launched, and fix others on the (locks, ra
pidly advancing. Many nfurreaions o'
the people have happened :n Spain, againit
the infiltrates ot the government, on this
iccount near one hundred thousand muf
q.iets had been distributed in several pro
vinces. to awe the people
On the 25th of March, the AurtrUn for
ces took poffcllion of Bri'fl'els, the French
having previously evacuated it. The French
irmv continued to retreat with celerity,
tho'in good order. The column headed
by Gen. Diimourier wasin the neighbour
hood of Mons, a large body of Aullrian ca
valry in their rear. The town and citadel
of Namur are evacuated.
On the 19th of March, Gen. CnOine fe>
out from Mentz with a bod . of the French
army and attacked the Prussians qt Strom
berg. The Pruilians then fell back to Rhe
imbellen, where they encamped.
Erujfels, April 1. The French continue
to retreat, still pressed by a numerous body
of Austrian horse that follow them. Ihe
arch duke Ch"i=s is at Mons, his van
guard at Fr.imeries. On the 39th, the
Imperial troops entered at Ghent, whicl
the' French have entirely evacuated, leav
ing there fonie pretty considerable stores.
On the 26th of March there was an en
gagement near Antwerp, between a bod)
ot French troops and an Auttrian trucj
:ind an Austrian division. The battle was
long and bioody, and was maintained or
both (ides with the greatclt intrepidity ;
but the French being superior iri number
Forced tiie Auftrians to retire, and took
several pritoners."
On the sud. of April the French garrifor
at Breda delivered up that place by capi
tulation to the Dutch ; the garrison having
liberty to return to France. In order U
prevent the ruin and pillaging ot the town:
and country, it has b<.en agreed, that al
the French troops in Belgia and the Dutcl
territory, flionld return home by way o:
Meculin, Dendermond, Ghent, 3nd T our
nay, under an escort of an Austrian fafe
guard, to the French frontier.
On the 26th of March, the city of Ant
werp surrendered by capitulation ; ths
French Garrison marched out with milita
ry honours, towards the frontier dfFrance.
On the 19th of March,there was foughi
another battle between the Iniperialift:
and the French, in which the former hat
the advantage, though both parties fuffei •
ed a heavy iofs. When the accounts cairn
,iuay. the French were about intrenchinj
hemfelves near Lonrain, so that aiiothci
attack \\ as expected.
The king of Pruflia has taken poflVffior
ef the city of Dantzic, and the territor;
belonging to it, with a fnflicient number
of tr< ops to maintain good order and pub
lic security.
Hagrie, Api-il 3. Gen. Pumowrier has re
treated w .jh hi army to Lisle and Valenci
ennes. He is tolerably feture jm Lisle
with 18.000 picked men. He imputes hi
bad fuccef: on the ißtho< March, in a greal
measure, to the arts of arillocracy. inflil
led into his soldiery by a faction in the Na
tional Convention.
PHILADELPHIA.
Wednesday, May 3?.
Last Saturday afternoon at two o'clock,
M,. Genet, ambafladorfrom France, be
ing introduced by Mr. Jefferfon, Secretary
of State, produced hi credentials to the
!r iidentofthe United States. He was re
ce;ve|l and acknowledged as Minitler Ple
nipotentiary from the Republic of trancs
t ot le United States ot America.
Yesterday arrived here the brig Sally,
from Cape-Francois in 13 days. On the
6th, arrived at the Cape, the frigate La
Concorde, of 44 guns and 4 howitz, with
the new governor and his family. Thii
veflel lett Brest the6th of April, with a
bout five millions of money. She bring'
accounts that " Gen. Dumourier has
quitted his army in France, having beer
fednced by dint of gold. Luckily his flight
was not attended with any ill consequences
Twenty fliips of the line were in the
Mediterranean, and eight in the channel-
Forty more lliips were fitting out at Brett,
to be ready the beginning of May for sea.
There was not a inau in the French arm>
found base enough to acompany Gen. Du
mourier, when deferring the cause of Li
berty and his country ."
Extract of a letter from Charleston,
April. 29.
" We are j inghnrg among ourselves con
cerning privateering- The Britith mer
chants at the head of a party, have called a
meeting of the citizens toprefent .» petiti
on to the Governor, not to allow priva
teering veflels to go out of this port. The
mee'ing is tobe held tomoirow v\ hen itis
probatile there will be several broken
head and bloody noses."
The Star, a London paper of April 6,
mentions *' the arrival of Gen. Dumou
rier with his army at Lisle, where he mst
the minjiter of war, Bournonville and five
cominiffioners, with orders to take him
pril'oner to Paris. Upon this, Dumourier
finding the pnlfe of his army beat to royal
ty. arretted the cpmmiflioners, sent them
to the prince of Cpbourg, as hostages for
thefafety of the queen and royal tamily,
then proclaimed the dauphin king at the
head 01 his army, and sent an express to
Paris, that they might expect him there
immediately, to fnpport the claim of the
dauphin, being convinced that France only
can be laved by the reiloration of royal
government-"- Several other reports
and pieces of information are detailed in
the fame piper extremely unfavourable
to the patriotic cause in France, but
there being nothing of an official nature
we forbear any further extracts, especi
ally as the Chronicle, an evening
paper of the fame date, has not a word
of thisdifaftrous intelligence, a ttrong argu
ment that the whole is little more tfian a
Change alley fabrication.
A prize schooner is carried into Norfolk,
tskeiVby a French cruifcr off the Capes ot
Chefapeke. She was from providence
(Bahama,) aiid besides the cargo, had
board 2000 dollars is specie.
Extract of a letter from a well informed
Corrsjpoudent dated London, ApriL sth,
1793. - . ■
" I have not been able tp procure sopies
of the bill mentioned in this letter but iIJ
declares in fubltance that any person being
or redding within apy of the' dominions, of
his Britannic MiijeOy who fl ail direflly pr
indirectly supply. or cause, dirett,authorize
01" procure any person or persons whom
soever or wiierefoever refilling, to fapplw
or to fend for the purpose of being fold pr
fnpplved to any of the dominions of France
or place in their pofiVffion or to the armies,
fleets or veflVls employed by the French
Government any naval or military stores,
gold or silver in bullion or coin, forage or
provisions of any kind and various other
articles, (hall be deemed guilty of treason-
All insurance made on any goods and
veflells bound to or from the port under
French dominion made null and vpid and
parties guilty of miWemeanor."
Extrpft of a letter from a gentleman in
Paris, to a gentleman in Maryland.
"It is very remarkable, that out of
sixty thou/and nuns, that have been turned
out of Nunneries in France, by the revoUi
tionifts, forty J even thoujand fur hundred
and thirty Jix, have had children, and the
most of them boys. It ma-y seem incredi
ble, but this account has been publiflieri
here, as copied from the regifler ofbirvhs
directed tobetakm,by (he laws of France,
which also fpetify the cpi:i! tioncf the mo»
thers, who art .1. Hated to kt nr.i s. There
are also, thirty three mother ebbrjjes have
had children, four of which are upwards of
sixty rears of age. It is, also, remarked,
that they have all become tin molt violent
revolutionists and fray mofl devoutly for
the fnccels of the arms of the republic, for
fear if a counter revolution take place,
they may be again cloiliered in Nunneries.
\n tine every thi>g fee w to be in motion 11
this country, and to cpnfpirs to support tfro
Laufe of L berty"
In the (Dublin) Hibernian Journal, of
Feb. ij. appears the following ad*ertife
ment. •—" For Sa|e, by John Mill'lkin,
Book-feller, No 32, &c. An Answer to
Paine's Rights of Man ; by John Adapts,
fefq. formerly President of the America!}
Eongrefs.—Price, \J\. N. B. This pam
phlet, which does great honor to the a! i
lities of Mr. Adams, is a complete refuta
rionofMr. Paine's wild doctrines."
A writer in the American Daily Adver-,
tifer sums up the following probable confe
rences of the United States taking part !H
he present war between France and Greas
Britain. 1. A ftidden and great diminu
tion of the exports and imports of theUni
ed States, e. The reduction of the f riccf
jf wheat from 8/4 to 2/6 per bulhel. 3.
An increase of the price of all impc ts. S»ls
would probably rife from 3/6 to 31. pep
:>ufhel. 4. A fiilure of the interefl on tha
public debt, by which means many thou?
"and widows, orphans, and aged citizens,
would be immediately reduced to poverty
\nd misery. 5. A contradklipn of all that
las been said by republican writers,
wars originate in the pride, ambition, and
ivarice of kingw—and.that republics love
:>eace, and negociate miflakei and infplja
with their neighbours. 6, Great distr e ss
imong all clafl'es of our citizens, from the
ofsot fathers, husbands, brothers, and fops,
who would perith in battle, or in military
rofpitals and prifoH-fhips. 7. A great in
;renfe of the public debt, and a heavy
ipon our farms to pay it. 8. A revival of
:he idleness, extravagance, fraud, and pro
rligicy of manners, which were produurl
dv the late war, and which are now nearly
janiflied from our country. 9. An in-
L-reafe of the influence of the executive
:>urt of the general government; whereby
:he balance of principles and condnft would
:urn in favour of monarchy and ariflpcra
:y. 10. Peace, after a seven year's war,
n ith disgrace to our country ; bankruptcy
;o thoufauds of individuals, and a concen
:ration of all the expenditures of the war,
n the hands of half a dozen cpntraftors,
piarter matters, and fpeculatprs.
[#y dejirg.]—Died at Mount Hayman,
\\ iUiamitown, Chester County, on the fcth
instant, in the 85.11 year of her agfe, Mrs.
Elizabeth Wayne, widow of Mr. Iftac
Wayne—and on Wednefdav her remains
were attended by a very large and refpe&-
able afiemblage of people, to the Family
Burying Ground, IB Newtown ; w here the
Rev. Mr. Vaughan delivered a sermon well
adajtyed to the occasion, frpm tfie j 2tfi
chapter of Hebrews, and 28th verse, which
(be had fele&ed many years previous to her
death, as her funeral text: —
"Wherefore, we'receiving a kingdom
which capuot be moved, let us have grace,
w hereby we may serve God acceptably with
reverence and godly fear."
She po(TeflLd, in an eminent degree, all
the great and upble virtues of the human
heart. —The inculcations of which, on the
minds of mankind, (lie always considered
as her greatest duty, as well as higheftplea
fure.
**» Several communications We axe
obliged te defer to our jiest.Philadelphia, May 22.
On Fri<! ay last, the fallowing address was
present ed by the Merchants and Tra
ders of Philade'phia, to the President of
the United States:
GEORGE WASHINGTON, Prudent
of the United States;
SIR,
SENSIBLE that nothing is wanting to
the happiness of the people of the United
States, but to continue in pi ace, under
their »-xc llent laws and government, the
M chants and Traders of the city of Phi
ladrlp ia, beg leave to exprefc to you, the
hit;h fcnfe they entertain of the wisdom
and goodness which didlated your late
Proclamation ; declaring the leutralitv to
be obfervedby the United States, in the
war, wherein several European powers
are now engaged ; a war which, however
it might serve the interests of their com
merce, for the time, they, as the friends
of all men, and of all nations, are bound
to deplore.
Impressed too with an opinion, that in
an unoffending conduit towards all the
world, consists the true policy of America,
it is their determination, not only to pay
the regard to the Proclamation
themselves, but to difcoiintenance, in the
molt pointed manner, any contrary dispo
sition in others; examples of which, they
are perfiladed will seldom occur ; the fen
roentsjuft expressed, being, as we have the
fatisfa&ion t« find, the common language
of the citizens of Pennsylvania.
Signed by about three hundred of the principal
Merchants and "Traders of the city oj
Philadelphia.
To which the President made the follow
ing reply:
To the Merchants and Traders of the
City of Philadelphia.
Gentlemen,
FULLY persuaded that the happiness
and belt interests of the peode of the Uni
ted States will be promoted by oberving a
ftrift neutrality in the present contest a
jnong the powers of Europe, it gives me
pleasure to learn, that the measures which
I hive taken to eclare to the world, their
disposition on this head, has given general
fatisfaflion to the citizens of Pennfylva
nia. Ihe friends of humanity will depre
cate war wherever it may appear: and we
have experienced enough of its evils in this
country, to know, that it should not be
wantoi ly or unnecefianly entered upon.
I trust, therefore, tint he good c tizrns
of the United States will (hew to the
world, that they have as much wisdom in
preserving peace at this critical juncture,
as they have heretofore dilplayed valour in
defending theirjuft rights.
(Signed) G. WASHINGTON.
Extra 3 of a letter from London, dated
March 18.
Our ministers, by yielding to the re
peated offers of negociation made by
France, might have prevented the inroad
into Holland, o r at least have taken ef
fectual mtafures for its defence, before
bring ng the nation to an open rupture.
Inllead of that, we ha>'e forced the Dutch
into hoftije measures, when they wilhed
to maintain a neutrality ; and as er Du
mourier had begun his operations, only
two thousand mm were sent over in ves
sels, utterly unprovided for the voyage ;
and in all probability to die of agues in
the morafies of Holland "
Extras ef another letter from the fame place,
dated March loth, to a ptrfon in this
city.
" Every day brings more and more to
light, the late horrid defign3 of' the aris
tocratic party in Paris, and their co ad
jutor the Duke of Brunfwick. The ma
nifello of the said duke is doubtless well
known to you j but it is not perhaps so
well known, that the horrid threats it
contains were not meant to be executed
immediately by his army, but by fccret
intrigue in Paris. After the surrender of
Longwy and Verdun (thro' treachery)
the enemies of France supposed could
accomplilli a counteiV revolution more easi
ly by intrigue, than by a direst march to
Paris, where it was supposed the king had
a fufficient number of friends to crush the
patriots."
" Had not the divine vengeancc arrett
ed the blood-hound?, by means of the in
trepid Parisians, with the afliftance of those
true patriots, and almost inimitable he.
roes, the Federates of Marseilles, Francc
at this day would have been without a ca-
pital,without * fcgiflative affemblyswithont
a national convention, without generals or
armies & almolt every city without inhabi
tants, which had adopted the principle, of
he late revolution. Although Paris was to
be the <11 11 facrifice to this infernal intrigue,
there cannot be a doubt but every city,
own, and diilrifl, that had consented to
the fufpenlion, was devoted to similar car
nage ; and a* little doubt remains with me
that limilar afltmblages of coufpiratora
were convened in evety such city, town
and diftrift in 7rance, which had pub
licly declared their sentiments to be in
unison with Paris ; and that the success ol
the Parisian confpi>, cy was to be the fig
nal for all the tell to begin the fame I el
lifh orgies.— Such a general carnage wat
surely intended on the night of the loth ol
r792, as hiilory jiever yet re
corded ; and for the honor of God, the
good of the moral and rational creation ;
it is to be hoped hell, with all its cliofen
band of furies, will never be able, at thi:
or any future period, to efTed, nor the
pages of future hiilory evtr be ftainer
with recording. As to affairs in England,
a sudden and calamitous check has been
put to our prosperity by the absurd wai
we have entered into. We might by ar
open and cordial condatf, have declared
aim oft ary conditions to France; wt
might have made this country the empo
rium of the world ; and while every Uat<
and climate were contributing to oui
wea th, we m'gh by peaceable and quiet
reforms of exorbitant and opp effive offi
ces, have reduced in twenty years, two
thirds of the national debt, and th-rehy
have secured to our posterity a pre emi
nence over other nations, which hardly a .
Ny shock of adverse fortune could have
reached. All this was in our power, anc
it requ red only plain sense, candour, ant
integrity to have obtained it. But inftea':
of this, we liav fuffered ourselves to bt
cajoled by a set of vehement and malig.
nant spirits, enemies'to the temporal hao
pinefs of their species, who, having rank
prejudices t6 gratify, or who having talt
ed the fiucets ot former wars, pursued onl)
the gratification of their passions, and dc
notdifdain t e je uitical plan of obtaining
their purpose thn ugh popular delirium.—
Perhaps it may be a cons lation to us it
this fchem of dc-lution, that we are bttl
the fuffen-rs, and that we may indulge tin
usual urivileg of upes, in giving io oui
deceivers, the epithets they def rve."
i H S I) , Y IS '"'BUSHED,
BY MATHEW CAREY
hi. 118, Maikct-Strwt,
EmbelliHied with a MAP • the present SEAT
OF WAR,
No. I, Of a MEW >yS TEM OF MODERN
GEOGRAPHY.
OR, A uIOGiIAPHICAL, HIS 1 ORICAL
AND COMMERCIAL GRAMMAR;
And present Sratc of the Several
KINGDOMS OF THE WORLD.
CONTAIN I NG
I. The figures, motions, and distances of the pla
nets, according to the Newtonian fyltem anc
the latest observations.
11. A general view of the earth considered as a
planet j with several ufeful geographical de/i
nicions and problems.
111. The grand dvifions of the globe into land
and water, continents and islands.
IV. The situation and extent of empires, king
doms, states, provinces, and c >lonie-».
V. Their climates, air, foil, vegetab'e predu&i
on?, metals, minerals, natural curi-'Ht-es, seas,
rivers, bavs, capes, promontories, and lakes.
VI. The biros and bcaftspeculiar to each country.
Vil. Obfervatijns on the changes that have beer
any wheie oblerved upon the face of nature
since the nv>ft early periods of hiifory.
VIII. The history and origi'n of nations ; their
forms of government, religion, laws, revenues,
taxes, naval and military strength.
IX. The genius, manners, customs, and habits
of the people.
X. Their language, learning, arts, sciences, ma
nufactures, and commerce.
XI. The chief cities, ftruftures, ruins, and ar
tificial curiosities.
XII. The longitude, latitude, bearings, and dis
tances of the principal places fr<?m Philadelphia.
TO WHICH ARE ADDED.
J, A Geographical Index, with the names,, and
places alphabetically arranged.
! A Tatle of the Coins ot all Nations, and their
value in English Money.
111. A Chronological Talle of remarkable events,
from the Creation to the present Time,
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, Esq.
The Agronomical Part by James Fergufon,r .RS.
To ivh 'ich have been added,
The late Dilcoveries of Dr. Herfchel, and other
eminent Alhonomera.
The firji American edition, cerrcfled 9 improved,
and greatly enlarged•
The publisher of this work, thankful fcr the pat
ronage with which he has b*en honored, l'ub
mirs the present number to the infpe€Hoo of
his fellow-citizens, and lays before them
The terms of publication :
I. This geography /hall bo pubiiihtd in fqrty
e«gl)t weekly numbers, ».ach containing twen^
■y-'our pages of letter prcfs.
11. In the courfr ot the publication will be de
livered [he lollowing maps :
J* Ihe world. 2. Europe* 3. Sweden, Den
mark, Norway, and i-inland. 4. Russia. 5.
Scotland. 6. England and Wales. 7. Ireland.
8. i ranee. 9, Seven UniteJ Provinces, jo. Au
• rian and t iench Netherlands. 11. Germany.
12. Switzerland. 13. Poland.' 74. Spain and
ortugal. 15* Italy. j6. 'turkey in Europe.
1"* A/ia. China. 19. Hindoitan. 20. At.
'<ea. 21. North America. 22. BritilhArae
<ica. 23. Well-Indies# 24. S iuth America
25. Plamfphere or the ea>th. *26. Countries
ouna tKe north pole. *27. Dilcovenes made
L>y Captains Cooke and C.erke. *28. New.
Hampshire. *29. Mafiachufetts. *30. Con.
nefllcut. #3,. Rhode- Jfland. *32. Vermont,
*33« Nevv-\ojk. *34. New-Jersey. *35,
rennlylvania and Delaware. #36. Maryi.arid'
'37. Virginia. *38. North-Carol: -a. *39,
Suuth-Carolina. *40. Georgia. *41. Tin
Sphere. *42. The Copernican fyft'em.
N. B. All the maps mzrked with liars are
idued to this edition, excluiive at' tbofe io the
lafi London edition*
i hat no may arise from Tub
cribcrs expedting what the publisher neither pro
files nor is abie to pei/orm, he gives this earl)
& explicit notice, chat to lome or the States it will
:>£ nnpoiJible tor him to give maps fully accuia te,
10 late lurveys having been made 5 and it is haro.
y necefiary to observe, that it lulls not within
lis plan to go to the expense of lurveys. But ij
:very instance, he will avail himfelfof the b(j
fiatertats extant : and such corrections and addi
10ns as his utmost exertions can piocuie, foal,
)e made.
111. 'I he geography of the United States is un
dertake;i &y gentlemen of literary abilities, whe
have engagc'j to gi -1 a more full and laiisfatito
ry account otic than any ever published, li
will extend to 250 or 300 pages, although in
the iiririlh euicion, and even in that of l 7923
it nuke* enly abo«t 30.
'V' Should the w )r k exceed forty-eight num
bers, thelurplui w j]j 5 e delivered gratis to the
iub'cribcrs.
V. ihe piice of each number will be a quarter
dollar, to be »ajd on deliver).
VI. Such lut/lcribers as do not cboofe t6 receive
tne wo k in numbers, are to pay tluee dullais
at the time or fubfcrioing.
'1 he priater, anxious to render this work a;
perfes as the nature of it.will allow, molt car
leftly request*, that such gentlemen,
he United States, as have it in their power, wili
uru.lh him with documents for correcting the
>>alt enors in the geog:aphy of America, and foi
rurnifhing a more complete f)flcm of geography
man has yet appeared.
1 hs title page, lilt of fubferiber's names, with
'he account ot the Newtonian fytlem, See, &c.
"ill be given in tne 47th and 48th numoers.
N. I>. she luolciitjers, and the pubiic in ge
neral are requeued to consider the following ver)
material circumltance--! ne London quarto edi
tion is fold here, for fifteen dollars, although ii
contains only 25 maps and plates, and of the geo
giaphy ot the United States, as has been oblcrvcc
aoove, only about 30 pages—whereas, Carey':
edition will contain 42 maps and plates, and hav(
two hundred pages or letter press more. And i
need not be observed, that the seventeen maps tc
oe aducd, are of more impoitance to American:
oy far, than the 25 London ones. The observa
tion will apply witn equal force to the letter prefi
additions.
The maps will be published in such order ol
luccelfion as they are engraved, and diretf ions wil,
be printed for the proper manner of placing their
oy the bookbinder.
May 22.
Books & Stationary.
ROBERT CAMPBELL,
N<J. 54, Second Street, South, second door be
low the corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
HAS IMPORTED.
By the late arrivals from Britain and
Irel-and,
The ancient & modern universal history, 60 vols.
Guthries history of the World, 13 vols.
Biographical Dictionary, 12 vols elegantly gilt.
Anijcharlis's Travels in ancient Greece, 7 vols*
gilt.
Gibbons's Roman History, 12 vols. gilt.
Hume & Smollet's History of England, 13 vols.
Robertfon's history of Charles the V. 4 vols.
History of America, 3 vols.
De la Croix on the different constitutions of Eu
rope and America, 2 vols.
New Annual Register, 12 vols.
N cker on executive Power, 2 v Is.
Rulfel's history of ancient Europe, z vols.
History of modern Europe, 5 vols.
Voting's travels in France, 2 vols.
Fielding's Works, 12 vols.
Priestley's Ledtures on History, 2 vols:
Same book in 1 vol.
P. ieftley's Historical Charts on Rollers with books
of description.
King of Pruflia's Works, 13 vols.
Enfield's History of Philosophy, 2 vols. 4to ele
gantlv gilt.
Same book in 2 vols. Svo.
Bell's Britilh Theatre, 25 vols, coarse or fine
paper.
Shakespeare's Works, in 1 or 7 vols.
Botanic Garden, 2 vols, bound in one.
Mnfheim's Ecclesiastical Hiftoiy, 6 vols.
Doddridge's Family Expositor, 6 vols.
Latdner's Works, 11 vols.
Whitfield's Works, 7 vols.
Biftop of Theological Tracls, 6 vols.
Large Family Bibles, witn beauLil'ul copper
plates.-
Lavater on Physiognomy, abridged.
Young's Annuls ar Agriculture, iS vols.
Tour in France.
Natural History of Birds, colored plates, 3 vols.
Baretii's Italian and Englilh Dictionary,
Bdarelli's do". H>. r * n> .> ? . ..
IralSan and
Paines Works.
Anderfon on Comrr, ?rce 6 vols.
Viner's Ab» ia«-of ;!»i Law, 12 voh. S. vo.
Wood a Convey and rig, 3 v<ti>, fi.lto.
Same book 4 fir.lt v •«, >cr.
William's digetf of th t £ng)i& L* ~ * 2 vc'i ,
Conrivn* s dijjefl of the Law, 6 vo s.
R-ports, 4 vois.
-alkeld's Rr-ports, 3 v Is.
Henry Black stone's do.
Wn>. Blackjion'? do, 2 vols.
Burrow's do. 5 volj.
Ambler's do.
C Avoer's do.
Brown's do. 2 vols.
Douglas's do. V.'vfev's dc. : vol.
D f ,,dt> ' s <*•-' Coke', ci. . 7 vp!s-
VVilTonsdo. 3 vols. Rayrri r.d s do. 3 vois.
St range's do. 2 vols. Corny n's do.
Lilly's Entries, 2 vols.
Coke /in Littleton,
Morgan's Eflay.s, 2 vols.
• r att II on the Law of Nations.
Woodefon's Lethites, 2 vols.
FlarriTon's Chancery, 2 vols.
Hinde's do.
Powell on Powers.
Powell on Contrai-is.
E (pin arte on N.fi Prius.
Sullivan's Lefturqs.
dunomus, or Dialogues on the Laws coo.titu
tion ot England.
Vfotherhy's medical Dictiorarv,
Vledical Commentaries, 16 vols, by Duncan.
viedicu! Communications ana jtnquiriej, (y vol*. ,
Medical Memoirs, 3 vols.
Morgan on the feat and caufcs vf (Hfeafci;, c vols.
*ott s Chirurgical Works, 3 vols. ,
3fburn'6 midwifery.
1 lanfadJions ot a new medical focietv.
LJndcr the diftafesof cnildrci:, 2 vols'.
yVallit. s Sydenham, 2 vols.
a a Syir)cten*s C.ommcntarres on Eocrhave, iS
vols.
soaHaneanics diflertations, 2 vols.
-iunter on the Venereal difcafe.
iunter on the difeafirS of the teeth.
hunter on the animal ceconomy.
< n the difeales ot the army and navy
-lank books ot ail fixes.
Writing paper of" all kinds.
Dutch quills ot the very best qualitv, &c. &c.
R C. will luppl>. country ttir/re-keepeis on the
i'erv I owe ft terms, with t -mily, porket, and com.
rjon 1 ibles, fpeliing books, testaments, primeis,
ivafers, writing paper, wrapping do. playing cards,
1 and American ink powder, quills, bonnet
capers, Young man's companion, Dilworfh's
Arithmetic, Watt's psalms and hymns, Weill's
hymns, dictionaries, histories of all kinds, &c.
I Have claims to about two hundredaa<*
titty thoufanu acres of LAND in the ft ate of
Kentuclcey, in different parts of that country,
Tome of which 1 know to be. equal to anv j ail
of wheh i am inclined to dispose 11, either by
Entire fele, or by admitting one, or two ~-.rc ers,
ro whom the agency on the whole will be com
mitted .
Oi.e fourth of the will fce r?oil»rfl in
[land, either in caih, merthandife, or ftuti
as may be conveitenro a&ive 1 le, tr? refiduc
may be apportioned in convenient ii. :h::r»i<-nts.
The purchasers to give security, on '|->_• 1-nd,
or otherways,as suits them.
Knowing that there is a prejudice agtinft the
titles of" land in that state, which is more general
than just, J am willing to irioulate in the con
trast, that a discount,. or doduu: . , lha'.l be
made, where any land may be loft, by reason a
defective title.
Any person inclining to such a purch jfe, is re
quested to write to me by post, in anlwer to
whom, more particular information wili he given.
tIENRT BANKS.
Richmond March 20, 1793. 2a w f
TO BE REN'FED] "
And pofiVfljon given in J.ulv next.
A Merchant MILL,
ALSO,. COUNTRY and a S .iV TILL,
either leparately or together, wj#h a i the
conveniences thereunto belonging, con;i'"i r
good tramed dwelling houlV, house, granar
Coopers shop, (tabhs, ail in perkft goo 4 « , -
tier and almost new, situate in a fifie whe at co> j
try, on a conllant and plentiful ttr?i.>n or or,
Hthe head of a navigable creek,called .Mion,
trom whence the fli'ailops transport ftour to I/ mI x
ielphia without any trouble to the miller, and ad
ioining a flourifliing village that always a:fr rJs a
v«ry ready Tale for the ofral oi the merchant cj !l
and an abundance »>f : cultom to the country anT
jaw mills. Those advantages render * h-jfe mil
nffior to none in this cojntry' 5 and the iicuarion #
for a ftcre is etjual to any in the flat*. The
merchant mill i; three florins high wirh two pair
of burr stones, double gear'd, a rol.ing fcrtt .1* and
rahn that cleans wheat into both hoppers, two
bolting ch«lts, and a machine for ih tgoes
by water. This milj njanulattures
Euperrine f!our, that is much ci'teemed.as fu. ii, in
Philadelphia. — For terms apply to R ,ber L ".".is
and Co. merchants in Philadelphia, or t l. ; :' u a-
Icribers near the premises.
ELIZABETH TRORME,
PLLTEII CAVERLV.
M-'lford, Kent Coitnty, s'tate of D aware
M-v. 1, I-93. ; ' V f; .
journeymen Saddlera
W a N T E u,
Y the Society ot" Mailer Sa-i • Jers of t!i" city
o of Philadelphia—fifteen or twer y v. • k
meii ott)\eabove with ioo.ranc
employment and generous wa.es, bv .j.- i.ing to
WILL] AM- JONES, Secretuv r > toe !.•.:•■ ,at
No. 3, South Front-(hect.
April 24- 9 , f, c
PRINTED B V
CHILDS am) S W A I ME.
\T TIIEIX OFF ICE MO. 209, HlMi , „u,
Pi KAR TI F V 11-")iTvitt T,
f « { L A D S. I. 2 J lIA »