~ . n , „7, /i. j w r „,,i7.n»YS and Saturdays, [Three Dollars per annum.!
By P. FREN EA V: (at No. 209, Market Street) Pubhjhed Wednesdays ana , L f
Numb. 97 of Vol. ll.] WEDNESDAY, October 2, 1793.
Frtm the Richmond and Manchester
Advertiser-
Extrai7 from No. XL I of the 2<J "olume of
the FederalisY, written in 1788.
" C OMR who have riot denied the nec'ef-
fity of the powers of taxation, have
grounded a very fierce* attack against the
conftitutios on the language in which it is
defined. It has been argued andl echoed,
that the power "to lay and collect taxes,
duties, imports and excites, to pav the
debts, and provide for the common detente
and gsneral welfare of the United States.,
amounts so an uhlimired cpmmiffion to ex
ercise every power which rhay be alledged
to be neceflary for the common defence or
general welfare. N> ftroiiger proof could
be piven of the diflrefles under which these
writers labour for objection ll , than their
Hooping, to fnch a ihifconftruftion. .
" Had no ether enumeration or deflati
on of the powers of the Congrels been
found in the constitution, than the general
expressions just cited, the authors of the
obiettion might have had some colour for
it ; though it would have been difficult to
find A reason for so a form ot dej
-cribine. an authority to Icgiilate in all p«m
ble cases. A power to deltray the freedom
of the prefi, the trial by jury, or even to
regulate the coitrfe ps delcents,of the ■ orms
of conveyances,muft be very Angularly ex
prefled by the term- "to raise money tor
the general welfare."
44 But what colour can the objection
when a fpecifiedtion of the objeels alluded
to by these general terms, immediately
follows ; and is not even reparated by a
lonizer pause than a semicolon. It the dif
ferent parts of the fame inftruntcnt ought
to be so expounded as to give meaning to
every part which will bear it; shall one part
of the famefentencebe exclude 1 altogether
from a (hare in the meaning; ano flßtraw
more doubtful and indefinite terms be
retained in their lull extent, and the clear
and pretife exprelfions, be denied any llg
nificatioh whatroever ? For what purpose
could the enumeration of particular powers
be inferred, if these and all others were
meant to be Included iii the preceding ge
neral power ; Nothing is more natural or
common than firlt to use a general plirafc,
and then to explain a/id quality it by a re
cital of partibulars. But the idea of an e
numeration of particulars, which neither
explain nor qualify the general meaning,
and can have no other elfeft than to con
found and mislead, i» an abfurd.ty which as
we arc reduced to the dilemma Ot .charg
ing either 011 the authors of the objection,
or on the authors of the constitution, we
must take the liberty of supposing, had not
its origin with the latter.
" The objeaion here is the more extra
ordinary, as it appears; that the language
used by the convention is 5 copy from the
articles of confederation. The objetts of
the union among the states as described 111
article 3d are, » their common defence
security of their liberties, and mutual and
general welfare." The terms of article
Bth, are still more identical. "All charges
of war, and all other expences, that shall
be incurred for the fcommori defence or
general welfare, and allowed by the Unit
ed states in Congress shall be defrayed out
of a condition treasury, Scc." A similar
language again occurs in article 9. Con
strue either of these articles by the rules
■Which would juftify the conftruition put
on the new conftituticin, & they vert in the
existing Congress a power to legislate in all
cases wfiatfoever. But what would-have
been thought of that afl'embly, if attaching
themselves to these general expreflions,
and disregarding the fpecificatibns, which
ascertain and limit their import, they had
exercised an unlimited power of providing
for the common defence and general wel
fare i I appeal to the objedtors themselves,
\ hether they would in that cafe have em
ployed the fame reasoning in juftification
of Congress, as they now make use of a
jrainft the convention—How difficult is if
for error to escape its own condemnation.'
Extrait from No. LXXXIII, Jame volume
Page 329.
" Having new seen that the maxims reli
ed upon will not bear the use made of their
let us endeavour to ascertain the propel
use and true meaning. This will bs
beftdoneby examples. The plan of the
convention declares that the power oi
Congress or in other words of the national
legijlature, fliall extend to certain enume
rated cafei. This fpecification of particu
lars evidently excludes all pretension to i
general legislative authority ; beeaufe a*
affirmative grant of special powers would
be abfiij"d as well as ulelefa, ii a general
authority was intended "
ExtraSfront the report of thl Secretary of
the Treajury, upon the JubjeCl of manu
factures, pages 36, 37.
The secretary speaking of pecuniary
bounties upon tlie manufactures, adopted
the lollowing r'eafonings, and fixes the ad
minillrative coil(1 ruction upon the princi
ples therein detailed.
"AquefHon has been made concerning
the conllitutional right of the government
nf the United States to apply this species
of encouragement, but there is certainly
110 good foundation for such a quertion.
Tlie national legislature has express autho
rity "To l;iy and collect taxes, duties,
imports, and excites, to pay the debts and
provide for the comtnvn defence and gene
ral welfare," with no other qualifications
than that "all duties, import?, and exciles,
lliall be uniform throughout the United
States, that no capitation or other direil
tax (hall be laid unlets in proportion to
numbers ascertained by a cenlus or enume
ration taken 011 the principles preferibed
in the constitution, and that " n» tax or
duty lliall be laid 011 articles exported
from kny slate."
"These three qualifications excepted,
tlie power to raije money is plenary and
indefinite ; and the objects to which it may
We appropriated are no less coriipreheiiGve,
than the payment of the public debts and
:he providing for the common defence and
general ■Ate (fare. The terms "general wel
fare" were douttlefs intended to fignify
rtiore than was exprefl'ed ot- imported in
:hofe which preceded, otherwise nume
rous exigencies incident to the affairs of a
nation would have been left without a
jrovifiort.—The plirafe is as coniprehen
~ive as any that could have been used ; be-
Mmie it was not Jit that the constitutional
juthority of the Union, to appropri»t*. «u.
"evenues fbbiild have, been rertrifletl with
n narrower limits tlten the "general -n/el
rartand because this neceflarily embrac
es a vart variety of particulars, which are
ufseptible neither of fpecification nor of
lefinitiotv
"It is tlierefotb of necessity left to the
lifcretion of the national legislature, to
ironounce upon the objefls, which con
cern the general welfare, and for which,
under that description, an appropriation of
n oncy is requilite and proper.—And there
eeuisto be 110 room for a doubt that what
ever concerns the general interests of leani
ng, of agriculture, of inanufaflures, ind
as commerce, are Within the sphere of the
national countils, as far as regards an ap
plication of money."
[What possible object of government may
not regard the application of money, if
Coiigrefs ftiould think proper to make the
application. J
" The only cjtialiflcatibn of the genebili
ty df the phrase in queftibn, which seems
to be admillible, is this—that the objc£t to
which an appropriation of money is to be
made be general and not local; its opera
tion extending in fait or by possibility thro 1 -
uMt tile Union, and not being confined to a
particular spot."
[How vague anil ihtbmpfetent is the re
flriftion here afforded when Congress are
made the judges of the generality or locality
of the ob-jefl ?]
" Nq objection ought to arise td this con
"trucfion tronl a supposition that it would
imply a power to do whatever else fhotild
appear to Congress conducive to the general
welfare. A power to appropriate money
with this latitude, which is granted too in
cxprejs terms, ould not carry a power to
do any other thing, not authorised in the
conrtitution, either exprcjsly or by fair im -
plication."
A Uniform Federalist.
Foreign Intelligencei
LcSNdon, July 29.
Yeftbrday morning, at ten o'clock, the
Earl of Yarmouth's servant arrived express
at the Secretary of State's office, with an
official letter from his lordfliip, containing
the intelligence of an important event.
On the morning of the 03d inft. the day
011 which the meflenger came away, the
Pruffiai) troops entered Mentz, thegarrifon
having surrendered by capitulation—the
terms, that they shall march out with arms,
baggage, and every thing but their heavy
artillery, drum beating and colours flying ;
and return to France, on condition of not
(erving against the combined powers for
one year.
When the Pruflians entered the place,
they found that the garrison had been
for a confulerable time destitute of nec'ei
faries j and so much so of medicines, fur
the lick and wounded, that ttiuch the
greater part of the latter, had died for
want of proper care.
For several days previoilS to the capitu
lation. the carnage on both fides had been
tlreadftil,the besiegers and the besieged be
ing in many points within piltol (lu.t, and
the latter making constant and desperate
allies.
The King of Irufiia. it is now f«ppofed,
will divide his army into two bodies, the
me under his own command, and the
>ther under that of the Duke of Brunf
.vick, with a view of penetrating into Al
ace and Lorraine at the fame time. A
ew days after the surrender of Merit", the
>ru(iian and the French soldiers were seen
ningled in groups and dances in the moll
Yieiidlv and familiar manner.
On tfie 23d inllant, when the meflenger
eft the camp before Valenciennes,the bat
eries of the third paraHel had been open
ed early in the.monnng, and in the conrfe
if a few hours apparently (ilenced the hre
>f the garrison. The mines had been pulh
?d forward with great vigour, and were
•xpeiSted to be fprnng in a day or two, If
lie hi"it (hotild be answerable to the plan,
lie beliegers would be able to erect their
latteries to batter in breach with perfect
"ecurity as to tile ground, and with little
mnoyance from the enemy under cover ol
he superior ftrefrom the third parallel.
Near thirty Engli(h and Dutch prizes
lave lately been taken by the French crui
"ers in the Baltic.
The King of Prufliaiiaving for sortie time
jalt had an army of above 120,000 men
Hitler his command, the greater part ol
his nunjber confiding of Au(lrians,Heflians,
md troops of the-Empire, has not (tintfd
Ijc evpenditilre jjri the liege of Mentz. At
he lowed computation he his laid out
:co men a day !
The Ottoman Porte Has begun to express
onfiderable uneasiness at the partition of
Poland, which all the representations and
pacific aflurances of the Ruffian minister
lave not been able to remove.
When the lated accounts were sent
from Lord Howe's fleet, it was at an
ther in Torbay, for which it bore up on
Holiday evening last In a thick fog and
trong westerly wind.
July 30. The capitulation of MeritK is
ilghlv honourable to the French. They
:00k the place without the loss of a man ;
t has co(f the allied armies months of time,
a million of money, and many thousands
jf men to retake it.
If every ftrongpoft in the hands of the
French (hall take as much time, and cod
is much blood and treasure to reduce as
Mentz, it is a cjueflibn on which we ought
to deliberate, how long, it will last, and
what will be the total expence ?
The account of the conquests on the
Frontier (lands at present thus ; the
Atidrtanj have got Conde ; the Prussian:
Mentz; and the Britifiia procession 1
Yesterday morning a meflenger arrived
at the office of the Rt. Hon. Lord Gren
l ille, his Majefty's^principal Secretary ol
Stale for foreign affairs, with difpatchei
from the Earl of Yarmouth, dated atthe
camp of Mentz, July 23, contain
an account of the surrender of that city tc
his Prussian Majclty on the preceding day.
with the articles of capitulation, of which
the following is a tranllation :
Articles of C apitttlAtioi>}ofT-red bj
Brigadier-General L'Oyre. Commandei
in Chief at Mentz, Caflel, and the
places which are dependent tipon them,
Art. I. army (hall delivei
up to his Majedj the King of Prnffia tht
city of Mentz and Caflel, together with
their fortifications and all the polls \Vhicl
belong to them, in theirprefent state ; a!fi
the artillery, both French and foreign war
like stores and provisions, those matters
1 > 111y excepted, which are mentioned in the
following articles. [/Icicp/ctl.']
Art. 11. The garrison (hall march out
with all the honours of war, carrying away
their arms, baggage, and other effects, the
private property of the inviduals of the
«arrifon.
Anf. Granted, on condition tli3t the
ijarr.fon (hall not serve, during thefpace 01,
1 year, against the armies of the allied pow
ers ; and that if they carry away any co
hered waggons, his Prussian Majesty re
serves the right of searching them in cafe
lie fliould think proper.
[Total Numb. 201.]
Art. 111. The garrison shall be allowed
to carry away with them their field piece#
with their carriages. \_RefuJed.]
Art. IV. The general officers, private
persons, the commifTaries of war, ajl the
directors, andthofe employed underthem,.
in the diftereut departments of the army,
and, in general, all individuals, French
fubie£ts, belonging to the garrison, llsalL
carry away their hofies, carriages and ef
fe£ts. {Granted. ]
Art. V. The garrifoh shall remain in
tfce place Forty-eight hours after the sig
nature of the present capitulation, and, if
that time (hould not be fufficient for the
last divisions, a further delay of twenty
four hours {hail be granted to them.
[Granted."]
Art. VI. The Commander in Chief
(hall be permitted to feh'd one or more
agents, furuilhed with palfports, by hii
Pruflian Majesty, to endeavor to procure
the money necelfary for the payment of the
debts contrasted by the army ; and the
French garrison defires,.that until the faicl
debts lhall be discharged, or until an ar
rangement shall be made for their liquida
tion, permifllon may granted thein to lejjve
hollages, who may ,rely on his Majefty'i
protection. (Granted.)
Art- VII. The garrison of Meritz
and its dependencies, immediately after
their evacuation, (hall begin their march
towards France ill several columns, and
dial! set out at different times. Each co
lumn shall be furnifhed with, a Pruflian
escort for their fafety to the frontier. Ge
neral D'Oyre (hill have this liberty of fend
ing in advance the ftafF officers and the
commifTaries of war, in order to provide
for the subsistence and accommodation of
the French troops. (Granted.)
Art. VIII.. In cafe the liorfes and car
riages belonging to the French army (hould
not be fufficient for the transport of the
camp equipage and other effetls mentioned
in the preceding articles, they (hall be fur
nifhed with others in the country, upon
paying for thetn. (Granted.)
Art. IX. As the removal of the (ick, arid
especially of the wounded, cannot be done
by land carriage without endangering their
lives, a fufiiclerit number of boats (hall be
furnilhed, at the expence of the Frencfi
nation, for conveying them b.y water to
Thionville arid Mctz, taking the neceflary
precautions for the fubliftence of those ho
nourable viitims of the war. (Vranted.)
Art. X . Until the entire evacuation of
the French army, none of the inhabitant!
who are now out of Mentz, shall be per
mitted to return thither, (Granted.)
Art. XI. Immediately after the signa
ture of the present capitulation, the troops
of the besieging army may take pofTcffion «f
the following ports, viz.
Fort Charles,—Fort Welfch.—Fort Eli -
sSbeth. — Fort St. Philip.—The trouble
Tenail.^—Fore. Linfenberj;.—Fort Haupt-
Iteih. —Fort Mars.—The iiland of St. Pe-.
ter. —and the two gates of Caflel leading
to Frankfort and (o Wifbaden.
They may moreover occupy conjointly
with the frencli troops the gate of New
thor, and the extremity of the bridge of
the Rhine adjacent to the right tank of
: hat river. (Accepted.)
Art. X T i. Colonel Dotiay, direitof- of
the arsenal, Lieutenant-Colonel Riboiffiti,
üb-dife£l6r, and LieUtenSnt-Colond Va
line) chief officer of engineers, shall deli -
i'er over, with,as little delay as pollible, 10
the principal officers of artillery anil engi
neers of the Pruflian i<rmy, the arms, am
munition, plans, &c. relative to the duties
ivith which they fnall be refpeftively charg
;d. (Accepted.)
Act. Xlll. A CommifTary at War fliall
in like maaner be appointed to receive the
magazines and effects which they con
tain. (Accepted.)
Art. Xi V. Additional article. The de-;
ferters from the combined armies shall be
ftriftly delivered up.
Doue at Marieuborn the 2jd of July,
' 793-
Aug. 8— to. Letters from Paris of th«
ift inltant, state, that at that time all wa«
tranquil. The accounts of the taking of
Valenciennes only been officially slated
i* the convention, but had excited a mere
momentary It was generally un
derflood and firmly believed at Calais,
tliat the combined armies were on their
march, in two columns, from the camp be
fore Valenciennes, to lay siege to Lisle.
General Cufline and general Miranda were
(till in the Abbaye prifoi', as well as M.
Briffot, whose trial had not yet taken
place.Some bankers here have received infor
mation that the decree which was proposed
some time ago in the National Convention,
making it death to negotiate a foreign bill
of exchange, or hold any commerce with
any foreign merchant, has attually taken
place.
Dunkirk will speedily be the obje£t of
an expedition, commanded by his Royal
Highness the Duke of York, in which he
v/ill doubtless be aflifted by the co-opera
tion of a naval force.
By the lad letters from Valenciennes,
we undcrltand, that it was intended to
make an attack upon the French camp of
Muubeuge.
Immediately upon the surrender of Va
lenciennes, general Clairfait moved farther
towards France with a body of twenty
thousand men, chiefly cavalry.
It is reported that the qneen of France,-
after undergoing her firlt examination be
fore the revolutionary tribunal, was com
mitted to one of the common prisons of
Paris.
The garrifoji of Metirz, which surren
dered to the king of Prussia, ha»e marched
cgainlV the rebels. By this measure they
have not violated their articles of capitula
tion, which obliges them not to fight dur
ing the war, againlt the combined armies.
The number of rebels fl.iin at Vernon
has been immense. The fields in the vi
cinity are ftrevved with dead bodies. On
their swords were engraved the words,
Vive Louis XVII.
Allthehorfes employed in France ft>r
luxurious purprtfes, are ordered to be sent
to the armies—This has given much offence
to the ariffocrars.
On the 18th the National Convention
received information f rom the representa
tives sent to the department of Eure, tint
so numerous were the defenders of the re
public, that Evereux could not contain
them within its walls—a camp therefore
wa> formed without the walls. The rebelv
however, had carried away the military
chest and four pieces of cannon.
The tocsin was rung in Pai is. for the
purpose of procuring men to march against
the traitorous department of Calvados.
Forty thousand citizens aflembled in a short
time I —Citizens Robert, Lindet, Duroy,
snd Bonner, were deputed to Calvados, in
verted with the necessary powers to make
the law refpefted.
General Beauregard, who commands
the van of the army of the Ardennes, is
at Mouzon. Kellerman is appoint
ed commander iu chief of the armies in
the North and the Ardennes, in the room
of general Cuftine, who is a prisoner in the
Abbaye.
Fan's, July 22. Extracts from the pro
ceedings of the National Convention, rela
tive to the imprifonmeiit of General Cuf
tine.
Bazire, in the name of the committee of
public welfare, rose to make a motion of
order. "Citizens, fays he, lam not yet
fnfficiently informed concerning Cuftine,
to make a report for you to deliberate ref
pe£ting him ; but I mult inform the Con
vention, that his presence in Paris causes a
violent agitation in the capital, and it ap
pears even to me, that he favours this agi
tation. He yesterday made his appearance
at the Palais royal, and wasfoonfurround
fd by a crowd of tipplers, crying out,
Vive Cuftine.
"Take notice, citizens, that this hap
pened on the very next day after the depu
ties of the convention had been infuited in
that place. I (hall not anticipate what may
be the judgment on Cuftine : but he is ac
cused of having diflributed money among
women, in order to stir up commotions in
bis favour. I demand as a measure of
public fafety, that he may be put in a lfate
of arrest "
A member. " This is done already."
Bazire. "The Convention mud not al
low him to appear in public places, like
Dumourier and de la Fayette, to call forth
and kindle enthuliafm. I Observed that
Cuftine is not yet under arrest. The com
mittee have only caused him to be watched
by a gen-d'arme, who accompanies him
■wherever he goes. Even his walks with
this gen-d'arme may be dangerous."
Simon. " The facrilegioias tenderness
■with which we treat a man like Cuftine,
is truly aftonifliing. When a soldier is
wanting to his duty, Cuftine is not fatisfi
cd with having hirn watched by a gen
d'arme, but he loads him with iron. He
is accused of having written a letter, where
in he fays, that such decrees of the Conven
tion as he does not approve, serve him only
for putting his hair en papillots (in curl
paper.) This, I think, will scarcely be a
motive for you to treat him very kindly ;
and, if it be true, why i? he not put under
arrest, he who is guilty of such an expressi
on, as bad as vive le Roi ! I demand that
the committee of public fafety be ordered
to enquire into this fact, and that, in the
mean time, Cuftine be confined in a prison
destined for conlpirators."
Breard. ' If there is fufficient ground
for suspicion against Cuftine, I do not op
pose any measure of public fafety, that may
be deemed necessary against him. But I
assure the Convention, that as long as I
have been a member of the committee of
public fafety, I have never seen a letter
written by him, wherein he has used the
expreflion mentioned by Simon. I declare, I
f that had I known him to be guilty of such
an expreflion, I should directly have moved
a decree of ai eft against him.
Several members. He did not write that
letter to the committee, but to theniiniller.
Danton. The Convention ought by no
means to remain in the dark in regard tn
an object of such importance. We must
know what Cuftine is. For want of pro
visions Condehas been forced to surrender.
Valenciennes is beset every where, and
hard prefled. The northern army wants a
general. Cuftine isfufpected by the nation;
he must be tried. I demand that the com
mittee of public fafety, and the minister at
war (hall fend in their report with refpeft
to the charges brought against Cuftine, that
the Convention may be able to pronounce
his sentence.
Bazire. I also demand, that the minister
at war inform us of the different paroles
lately given out by Cuftine in his army ;
We (hall perhaps be fu. prised to hear, that
this general, at the very moment he de
nounced Wiilipten to the Convention, ido
lized the rebels of Calvados. Some of hio
paroles were the words-, Condorcet. Paris,
Constitution. His aid-de-camps and trusty
friends tiled to fay to every one who chose
to hear it, " You fee what the General
means by these paroles : you must join the
league of Calvados, and march to Paris, in
order to promote the acceptance of Con
dorcet's Constitution."
" I repeat, therefore, my motion, that
from motives of public fafety, Culline be put
in a state of arrest. '
This motion was adopted, and as several
members called out, a l'Abbaye ! the.Con
vention decreed, that Cuftine (hould be sent
to the Abbaye prison.
London Aug. 13. It is confirmed, that
on the r ft inft. the National Convention of
France decreed that the Queen Ihould be
sent before the revolutionary tribunal.
From French papers it appears that Ta
ris was then perfectly quiet.
Philip Egalite has been acquitted at
Marseilles ; where, however, he is {till a
prisoner. It is even doubtful whether the j
decree of banishment against all the Bour
bons, will be of force to liberate him.
The letters received yesterday from
Lord Howe's fleet, again returned to Tor
bav,differ very materially in their accounts
of the cruise. By some it is laid that the |
French fleet was inferior in force, was
chafed for two days, and avoided an ac- ;
tion only by keeping close in with their ]
own coalt. By others, that the French 1
were superior in number of (hips, and that i
no attempt was made to bring them to ac- 1
tion. They do not even 2gree as to where 1
the French fleet was left, or for what pur
pose the Britilh fleet returned to Torbav.
The mod accurate account Teems be,
that the French fleet confilted of three
fliips of ico guns and upwards; leven ot
84, and seven of 74 ; in all, 17 of the line,
besides frigates ; that they declined an en
gagement s and that Lord Howe, after
feeing them into port, returned to Torbay, (
to take in water for a longer cruize, with
a view of prote£ting our own homeward
bound Jamaica fleet, or of falling in with '
the French St. Domingo men. A French
frigate is said to have been chafed on (hore.
On the 30th ult. failed for Philadelphia,
the company of Comedians for the Thea- ,
atre in that city. There are upwards of
one hundred persons to embark in this
fcherne. Mr. Reinagle is the manager ;
the ee>llpiny is to perform part of the year
iti l'hiladeiphia, and a part of the year in
Nev/-"York. Miss Broadhurft has three
hundred guineas a year, and two free be
nefits, one in each theatre.—Chalmers has
also a liberal engagement. Mrs. Wrighten
has received a thousand guineas in Ameri
ca at a benefit.
For the National Gazetts.
Mr. Freneau,
•"THE Arminians, and others, have long
blamed the Prelbyteriaiis and Calvin
ifts for holding (what those call) the un
reasonable and dangerous doctrine of Pre
destination ; —at least, for carrying it to
fuchlengths as some of them have done;
butitfeems they have been (at least of
late) much mistaken, and it's to be hoped
they will in future fparetheir cenfure—for
it plainly appears by the conduct of some
ol the more enlightened Calvinifts, that to
whatever latitude their former opinions
on that lYibjeft extended, they are now (in
this enlightened age) better informed ; —
witness one ot their very popular leaders
flying from this city, almost as soon as the
present calamitous sickness was supposed
to be contagious ; —and, another, publicly
discouraging theafTembling together in the
house and time appointed for the public
worfliip of God ! It is to be hoped, these
gentlemen will, in future, either fairly lay
alide their favourite dotti ine, or a£t more
confidently therewith.
If any clergyman of any other denomi
nation, has deferteri h'rspoft in this time
of great cal imity, (when there was and is
a loud 1 a 1 tor his best services, and utmost
exertions for the benefit of precious foulsin
deep distress, many onthe brink Afanaw
fnl eternity)we maypity(whilft we blame)
the weakness of his faith : but we cannot,
in the fame sense and degree, charge him
with ineonfiftency. But this I will venture
' t*vfay, that the worthy m'niilrin» servants
I of God who have flood to their ports in this
time of loud call for their services in pub
lic and private—who have " flood in the
breach, —in their places—and have not
1 deferred many hundreds of precious fouls
1 in theextremity of deep distress (who per
haps were ft rangers to .God and their Sa
viour, and in perifhiisg need of the glad
tidings of the gofpel)—and who have not
neglected to comfort and strengthen the
people of God, in sickness, or near the hour
of difTolution, putting them in niind of pa
tience, resignation, and a lioly filial acqui.
efience in the divine will—and praying
with them for these and other spiritual
bk'flings andfupports. I fay, all fuchfajth
ful minift'ers do merit a aouble portion
of the efteom and love of the inhabitants of
this city, and I think they are sure to 1 ave
it in future. They have the efteera of all
I converse with—they ihovv by their deeds
that they have faith—l hope theyare full
of faith," and such ought to be paltors
under the great Shepherd, who was " full
of companion." It gives me 110 small plea
sure to fee and hear, that they are preserv
ed iufome measure of health —1 hope they
w ill be preserved and blefled—-and remain
their and your friend and fellow citizen.
PHILANTHROPOS.
P. S. Since writing the above, 1 hear
that another very worthy mirfllter of the
frefbyterian society has left the city. I
had almost said that I was furpriied and
furry to hear it—but perhaps it was pre
destinated !!! I
P. Si I was born and educated in Scot. 1
land, and brought up a Prelbyterian ; and 1
(tho* no bigot) I still rather prefer their
form of worfnip and church government; ;
and though I could never understand or j
approve of the doflrine of predestination, j
in the very extended and extravagant sense 1
to which some have carried it; yet, lam 1
not altogether against it in a rational and t
: limited sense j I believe in an omnipotent, i
general, and particular Providence ; this <
isenjygh forme,—and is certainly more 1
intelligible than eternal deep decrees, and !
dark predeflinations. With refpe£t to our
moral condu£h and the consequences, and ;
with refpe£l to our believing and receiving
the SAVIOUR, or rejecting HIM, I think
a good and wife God has clearly and ex
prel'sly revealed his decree ;—and as to
oar other and lefier concerns, if we devote
and commit ourselves to His hands and
protection, there is not any fear of us (in
the line of our duty to God or man). But,
in prosperity or adverlitj—health or fick
nefs—life or death—we are fafe, and will
certainly meet with what is best for us.
<r> n [>i| , ■ - M
PHILADELPHIA.
1
Wednesday, Oilober 2. '
Extract of a letter from Lsndon, July 31. '
'' The account is just received of the J
surrender of Valenciennes to the combined '
armies, and that they do not mean to pro
ceed farther into the country. So that
there is great probability thatthe war Will :
subside soon." J
It ought to b? mentioned to the credit of '
the people of Elizabeth-Town, in New- "
Jersey, that while some other places are 1
excluding the exiled citizens of Philadel- 1
phia from their borders, an asylum is
opened for them there, and ample provi- f
Hon made for their comfortable accommo- 1
dation, should they be seized with the epi- 1
demic fever. '
The following article in Dr. Wiftar's 1
addrefstothe Physicians of Philadelphia, 1
exhibiting a statement of his cafe, during '
I his confinement with the yellow (eve:, de- *
serves particular notice.—" The remedy '
which gave me the most sensible relief, and 1
the recommendation of which is my prin
cipal inducemeht for writing now, was '
cold air—The second night of the disease, 1
when I was very delirious and in severe '
pain. I lay between a window and a door, '
and within four or five feet of the window 1
which was open, the wind suddenly chang
ed and blew upon me cold and raw—its t
effett was such that I soon became confei- 1
011s of myfelf, and was so sensible of bene- t
fit from it, that I opp j(ed (hutting the win- 1
dow, and by laying 111 the cold, in less than |
an hour from being delirious 1 became 1
reasonable, my pain went off, and as far as 1
1 am able to judge, my fever also in a great :
degree. From this I took a hint, and had 1
the window almost constantly open, and i
when there was no air, was fanned fteadi- 1
ly. I have kept mvfelf veiy cool ever 1
(ince, except during the cold sweats, and ;
have great confidence in the effects of cold
and frefh air."
The George Barclay is arrived from
London, in 8 weeks paflage. She lies be
low Gloucester. Mr. Wignell and several
of the company of Comedians on board,
come to town lafl Saturday, aud viewed
the new theatre.
Matter of fait :—A citizen, one day last
week, being taken with some flight indis
position, his friends fuppofmg him seized
with the prevailing epidemic, immediate
ly, and much against his inclination, fitted
him out for the hofpita! at Bush-Hill, and
ordered a cart for the purpose of convey
ing him thither. On the way, the patient
finding hinifelf not only still alive, but in a
s tolerr.ble state of good health and fpirifs,
s quitting his blanket, leaped from the cart,
- and ran full (peed over the commons in a
? different direction. The driver putting
t his horse firlt on a round trot, and then
i on a full gallop, gave chafe for some time,
• but finding it impossible to overtake the
■ sick man, he gave up the pursuit, and re-
I turned to the city.
In a putrid fever, similar to that now in
• Philadelphia, that prevailed some ; ears ago
in Jamaica, to a great degree of mortality,
medicines to relist putrefaction were at firft
given, but without the least good effect ;
Evacuating medicines had been carefully
avoided being given, for fear of adding to
the great debility always attending the dis
order in the beginning. On reflection,
however, purgatives were tried, at the firft
onset of the disease, and direCted to be
continued till contra-indicated by weak
nels. The apprehension that evacuating
medicines increased tl.e debility occafloned
by the fever, was soon found to be ground
less; on the contrary, people acquired
strength in proportion as the intestines were
purged of morbid bile. The patients after
their new mode cf treatment, had about
:o discharges of a ('ay for three days fur
ceflively before the appearance of the {tools
was altered : when their colour changed
the colour of the skin changed alio : then,
and not till then* were barks given. This
practice, on comparison,' is found to b6
nearly the fame with that of Dr. Rush in
the present epidemic fever of this city—the
purge, given, was, like his, calomel in large
doses; and barley ■■water the common
drink.
Cleanliness is the great preventative of
all contagious diseases. Even in sickly ships,
prison /hips, &c. where many hundreds of
people are sometimes crowded together,
it has been observed, that the parte of the
ship where cleanliness was molt attended
to, were invariably the most healthy.—lt
is an incontefiible truth that the contagi
ous fever in this city has raged molt in nar
row confined frreets, where the houses af
forded little or 110 draft of air, and where
the generality of the inhabitants w ere ne
glectful in point of wafhihgand ventilating
the apartments, or removing collections of
filth.
A Spanifli ship, loaded with fngnrs, has
been re-captured from the French, and
cairied into Newfoundland, by a privateer
of that island. A French brig of 16 guns,
w as carried into St. John's the Bth of Au
gnft, prize to an English sloop of war.
By an arrival in the Chtfaprake, from
Cadiz, we learn, that the Portuguese were,
in July, fitting out 10 fail of the line to join
fleet ill the channel, confiftinjr
of 30 fail. It was said 10,000 Porttlguefe
had marched To join the Spaniih army on
the frontiers of France. A Spanifli fleet
ot 38 fail of the line were lying inactive
at Carthagena, with 1500 men sick. Ten
fail had gone to the \\ eft-Indies, and se
veral more, with frigates, were cruising
between the Wefterii islands and Spain.
Two Spanifli ships of no guns each had
been nearly destroyed in tlie Mediterrane
an, by running foul of each other in the
night. A Spanifli frigate had carried into
Malaga a French Eaft-'lndia ship from the
Isle of France, worth one million of crowns
—and another, in company, was taken at
the fame time by an English frigate, value
not mentioned.
The committee of the Legiflatnre of
Mafi'achufetts, who were appointed to take
into cunfideraiion the communication of
the Governor at the opening of the session.
have reported, 7 hat it is not expedient
that a State should bQ. fueable, and " that
the Senators of the commonwealth, in
Congress, be instruCted, and that it be re
commended to the Representatives, to en
deavour to eft'eCt an amendment in the con
ftittition, touching the premUes."
A veflel,arrived atMarblehead fromßil
boa, gives an account of a battle having
been fought in the province of Navarre be
tween the French and the Spaniards, in
which the latter were totally defeated,
with the loss of fix hundred men.
The inhabitants of Elkton convened on
the 19th instant, and entered into several-
Refolarions, relative to the prevention of
the fever, now prevalent in this city, from
reaching them.—Proper persons were ap
pointed (with two Physicians) to inspect
travellers 011 the different roads leading
from Philadelphia to Elkton, and to make
their reports to a committee, appointed for
the purpose, on such means as flionld appear
most conducive to the fafcty of the inha
bitants : the committee to provide every
necslfary of lodging, nurses, medical aflift
ance, &c. for futli persons as lhall be flop
ped—the expences, in the firft instance, to
be defrayed by tlie citizens of Elkton, and
ultimately to be levied on the inhabitants
of the county. [Similar regulations in
some other places, it is thought, might have
done equal credit to the humaniiy of their
inhabitants,]
ExtraCt ef a letter from Elizabeth-Town,
to a gentleman in Philadelphia.
" The inhabitants of Trenton, Newark,
New-York, and a great many other towns
have behaved most inhumanly to your fel
low citi2ens, flopping well and hearty per
sons from taking a refuge in their towns,
and even not permitting them to p3f&
through ; but the inhabitants of Elizabeth-Town have behaved likd chrifti3" s a;l 4 c '"
low brethren: they havendt only permitted
them to go and come, but have offered ,
them an af'ylum. They are about letting
oil iopt a subscription tor the heip ot the
poor of your city ; it is to Unappropriated
to buying articles here, and fending them
to Philadelphia."
By a passenger arrived from Albany this
morning, we learn that in order to pi event
the introduction of the yellow fever in
Albany, they have formed committees, and
fixed a jrun-boat at some diltance trom the
city, where all veflels are (topped till the i
direitors examine the pufl'engers And, i
t iat colonel Hamilton and lady were ar- i
rived, but were denied admittance into t.ie ;
city, and had taken lodgings at a Mr. ivl - ,
Gown's, at Green-Bulh. (V- York paper.) ■
We are informed by a person trom Ma- I
ryland, who on his way to this city patied
thro' Delaware Hate, the latter end of lalt .
week, that a waggon trom Philadelphia |
with dry goods, &c. was teized ne;ir tae
town of Milford, in Delaware (late, by a (
number of the inhabitants ot the town an
vicinity, and burnt to ashes, with the whole -
load, under apprehensions ot its being ia
fected with the contagion that has pre
vailed in this city. "The enraged crowd,
that seized the waggon, inauifeLed every
token ofdefperate fury and terror, and in i
the height of their temporary mad-.efs, •
seized a woman that was m the waggon ,
ttripped, tarred, and feathered, and other
wile ill-treated her, to the lading dilgrace
of the people of that town a id neighbour
hood, who could so far throw aiide the
native dignity of man, as to permit luch a
Jhameful outrage. A negro man, who
drove the waggon, made his escape with
the utmolt difficulty from those ternhed
and desperate people." ,
The (hip George Barclay, captain, CoUet
left Falmouth the 16th of Augiitt. lie
New-York Packet, tor New-York, had
jail made the lignal lor failing as the
George Barclay left the port.
Governor Homej ot ilie illancl or jiena
da, iflued a proclamation on the 2«tn ot
A.igull, alUwing the free importation into
mat island and the Grenadines, in Ameri
can velfebj of all such articles as are by
law admitted to be imported trom Ameri
ca ia Britilh boitoms ; the license to conti
nue till January lft 1793. .
It is remarkable that in the articles ot
the capitulation of Mentz, the gariifon
were not reftticted from ait'uig against the
r.-bels in the interior of France. Accounts
fay, they have actually marched agau.lt
tnem by order of the convention, in confe
rence of no such reltriaioa being laid upon
"Tt'is a mistake that persons from the
country may not at present rel'ort to this
city, with fafety, from the so much dreaded
disorder. It appears, from experience,
to the higheit degree improbable, that any
Infection cau be taken, except by retorting
to sick houses—having foiue near and con-
Jlaut intercourse with the ink; or by in
temperance ; putting the conlhtution into
such aftate as to receive the contagion rea
dily from the flighted causes.
Ab tract of other Intelligence by the George
Barclay, Pallas, William Penn, Atlantic)
and other late arrivals from Europe.
(N. B. The capitulating articles of Valen
ciennes Ihall appear in our next.)
London, Aug. 8. —It was believed at
Calais, that the eombined armies were on
their march, in two columns, from the
camp before Valenciennes, to lay siege to
Xifle. Gen. Cuftine and general Miranda
-were (till intheAbbaye prison, as well as
Brillbt whole trial had not yet taken place
Dunkirk is to be speedily attacked by the
duke of York, for which purpose he is re
turned to England : a naval force is to co
operate with him in the attack-
Aug. 10. By the lalt accounts from Va
lenciennes, an attack upon the £ rench
camp near Maubeuge was intended. Im
mediately upon the surrender ot V alenci
ennes, general Clai'rfait moved further to
wards France with a body of 20,c00 men
chiefly cavalry—Report fays that the late
queen of France, after undergoing her firft
examination before the revolutional tnbu- j
ual, was committed to one ot the common
prisons of Paris.
The number of rebels (lain at and near
Vernon, in France, by the patriotic army
is immense : the fields in the vicinity were
It re wed with dead bodies; oil their I'words
were engravetl the words "jive Louis 17th. «
All the horses employed in France for lux
urious purposes, are lent off to the armies :
this has given much offence to the aristo
crats—The city of Evreux, after a mo
mentary lapse has returned to its allegi
ance to the Convention; so numerous
were the defenders of the republic there
that Evreux could not contain them : a
camp had therefore been formed without
the walls—The city of Paris has railed
40,000 men, as her quota to march against
the traitorous department of Calvados—
Kellerman is appointed commander in
chief of the armies in the North and Ar
dennes, in the room of Cuftine.—The
French do not appear to make any new
arrangements in their army; many small
camps have been broken up, and it is be
lieved they intend to concentrate their
force in the interior of the kingdom—Ge
nera] Pao'i is certainly in the interest of
the Spaniards, and there is no doubt of his
design to deliver up to them the island of
Corsica: Baitia, however, the capital of 1
that island, remains firm to 'the republic : 1
a Spamlii fleet has presented itfelf before
that city, but finding warm preparations to 1
receive thein, the' neered off in the night. :
The National Or.ivention has declared I
Paolia traitor, and outlawed, and have '
ordered the administrators of Corsica to t
be put in a state of accusation. -Toce- i
lebrate the return of the city ot Evreiix to
the cause of liberty, it was decreed, that '
fix couple of young republicans Inoiild be
married every year attheexpence of tne 1
nation: these young bridesßc bridegrooms
are to be chosen by an alfe;rtb|y of old men, *
at which the repcefentatives of the-people <
will preside. The dowry is to be fixed
by the committee of finances.
On the 24th of July eight Portuguese
ships of war arrived at Portfniouth, in Eng
land; viz. Concelias, 82 guns—Vafco da
Gama, 74; one other of 74; one of 70;
one of 46 ; one of 48 ; and two of 24
guns each.
An English ship that has lately explored
the north weft coasts of North-Airferica,
has transmitted information to England,
that the long \yilhed for north-weft pafTage
need not be fought for in future in the
straits de Fuca j through which it was sup
posed to ekift. The English (hip entered
these (traits in lat. 47, N. and came out at
lat. 51. 20, N. after having carefully search
ed every branch which turned to the east
ward.
We learn from New-Jerfev, that thej
horses, in many parts of that fj.it e, die of
a distemper called the blind (taggers. One
of the farmers has loft upwards of 4001. in
horses.
Extract of a letter from Charleston.
"Nothing material happened fiuce you
left this place, except the arrival of two
French and one American vefTel, trom that
once flourifhing but how abandoned city,
Cape-Francois.—'fhefe vessels were full of
passengers, who Hed from ruin to take re
fuge In this land of liberty and tranquility ;
the two French vessels happily arrived,
without meeting any of those savages si ted
out to rob 011 the high seas. The American
however fell Jil with one captain Tucker,
of the privateer Stifannah from New-Pro
vidence, and h£ added inifery to diltrefs,
by taking from the passengers what little
they had left saved from the fire ; above
60,000 French crowns in specie and plate.''
Halifax Sept. to. Sunday afternoon
arrived the Volunteer, capt. Stack, from
Cork, but lalt from Newfoundland : by
her we learn, that the Bolton frigate is at
Lawrence harbour, Newfoundland, and is
repairing for sea.
The Irish Volunteer, parted company
with his Majesty's ship Adriaua, and Orlan
do vi£tualling liip, a fortnight ago, and
may be hourly expected here.
London, Aufiuft 2. The redu£tion of Va
lenciennes adds another and more-pregnant 1
proof.to that of Conde, that we are fight- ]
ing only forourgreat and good allies, "the
emperor and king."—The duke of York:
not only commanded the besieging arhly,
but all the expence was English. There
was hardly a man-fell that was not English,
or that the English had not to replace, since
we have bought Hanoverians and Hefiians
at so much per dozen ; and, when at last
the French agree to surrender to the Eng
lish, so entangled are we bv treaties that
it cannot be permitted. The fatigue, the
cost was all our own, but the advantages
belong exclusively to Austria.
How is this to be accounted for? Be
cause we are to retain whatever we may
take in the Weft-Indies. If this was the
original agreement, how conies it that we
have been duped to fend to the Continent
all the troops by whom we could have ex
pected to have procured an indemnity far
our expences in the Weft-Indies ?
Plymouth, July 27. A circumstance of
a very Angular nature has been discovered
within these two days. At the blockhouse,
which stands on an eminence about a mile
from this place, there has been constantly
one of the artillery men stationed. About
two years since, the wife of the man sta
tioned there, went to the commanding
officer at the barrack, and begged that an
other man might be sent there, that her
husband had left her, and she was convin
ced he had deferred : the officer knowing
him to be a steady man, gave little credit
to what flie advanced, and delired her to
return, faying, he made no doubt but that
he would return to her again ; but (lie could
not be prevailed on to go there again ; and
another man was accordingly sent. Fre
quent complaints were afterwards made
to the commanding officer, that the water
of the Tank was so very bad that it could
■ not be drank ; in consequence of which,
' orders were given to pump it out, that it
might be cleaned. This was done ; and
■ on going into it, to remove any foulnefs
that might be collected. this very man was
I found. Various conje£tures have been
formed refpefting this bulinefs; and the
" general opinion is, that the woman was
• accessary to the deed.
Paris, July tB. Thefuneral of Marat
wm celebrated the day before yesterday, t
with the greatest pomp and felemnity. All t
the sections joined in the proceilion, some i
ot them with their colours, but all of them <
with their Itandards. An immense crowd i
of people attended it. Four women bore i
the bathing-machine in which Marat was c
standing when lie was aiTalfinated ; his t
(hirtj ftaindd with blood, was carr ed by I
anotlier Amazon at the top of a pike. As- |
ter this followed a wooden bed-stead, on t
which the corpse of Marat was carried by ;
citizens. His head was uncovered, and- t
the gaih made by the knife of the aiTaflin t
coutd be easily distinguished. The pro
ceilion paraded through several Itreets ;
and was saluted on its march by several ,
difciiarges of artillery. At half past ten j
o'clock at night, the remains of Marat ,
were deposited in a grave dug in the yard j
of the Club of the Cordeliers, betweenfour j
linden trees. At the Base of his bed of (
state the following words were iufcribed : ,
MARAT, ,
The Friend of the People, ,
AfTafii'iated by the Enemies of the People. ,
Enemies of the Country,
Moderate your joy ;
He will find avengers !
Charlotte la Corde was tried yesterday
for the murder of Marat, the Friend of the
People, by the Revolutionary Tribunal.
Her countenance displayed heroic disdain,
and her answers, by their boldness, struck
every fpettator with aftonilhment.
At the beginning of her trial Ihe thus ad
dreiTed her judges :—" I did not expect to
i appear before you— I always thought that
1 fliould be delivered tip to the rage of the
people, torn in pieces, and that my head,
stuck upon the top of a pike, would have
preceded MArat on hisftate-bed, to serve
as a rallying point to Frenchmen, if there
Hill are any worthy of that name. But
happen what will, if I have the honours of
the Guillotine, and my clay-cold remains
are buried, they will soon have conferred
upon them the honours of the Pantheon,
and my memory will be more honoured
in France than that of Judith in Bethulia."
Sentence of Death was pronounced upon
this ref.dute woman, and flie was executed
In the evening.
The feilions of Marseilles pcrfift in
their determination of marching againlt the
Convention. They have already
Avignon, which was for the Maratills ;
but no blood has been Died. The city of
Lyons is still in a state of infurreftion a
gainlt the Sans-Culottes, and Partizans of
the Convention ; its armed force is very
coniiderable, and has been reinforced by
several platoons of Marfeillois, who are
daily arriving. The popular tribunal at
Marseilles has pronounced sentence of
death Upon one Pauiet, who being arraign
ed for the murder of thirteen persons, an
swered with great coolness and unconcern.
" Your charge u fa'fe, I only killed, nint of
them."
General WiMPfen's army is now very
formidable ; and though the Maratifts have
been fufFered to take pofieflion of Evreux,
the part zans of the Moderates fay, that
they only evacuated it from mot'vesof po
licy, and that they might join Gen. Winip
fen iu Calvados.
Instead of a surprize at the capture ot
Conde, Valenciennes, or Mentz, it is mat
ter of admiration they have so long Uvsod
out againll the united force of Europe. If
France is to be conquered at this rate it
will take 20 years to perform it, and Eu
rope will be desolated by the event.
'• At every pore fair Gallia bleeds,
Surrounded by her fiercest foes ;
His well-train'd bands proud Frederick
leads.
And thousands march where Danube flows;
While modern Britons condescend,
To tyrants vile, their aid to lend.
Sardinia's prince, and Russia's queen,
Spain and Batavia fam'd of old,
Such numbers boast as ne'er were seen ;
Nor can their wealth or force be told.
With too miich cai'fe hath Galliamourn'd
Th' effects of vile despotic sway ;
But tyrants Britain oft hath fpurn'd,
And finding bnfk'd in freedom's ray.
Great ALFRED, Albion's firmed: friend,
Who cherilh'd freedom's sacred flame,
The rights of man did well defend,
And left a never-dying name.
Altho' when conquering W'lliam caiiie,
In fecrft free-born Britons pin'd,
At RunnymeAe reviv'd the flame
That gladdeii'd every generous mind.
Molt nobly firm, her HAMBDF.N fought
Hi" country's dearest rights to save ;
rierCommons long for freedom fought—
, While thousands found a soldier's grave.
But ah ! what valiant deeds have gain'd
By vile corruption's arts is loft 1
The foils those rights have not maintain'd
Which were their gallant fathers' boast.
But Tyrants, sure, too late will find
Fair Liberty above controul:
Her charms will soon engage mankind, -
And gain support from pole to pole,
TM Britons J.till (.hou'd condejcend
To Dejpots vile—their aid to lend."
[ Virginia Chronicle.']
APPOINTMENT.
Major David Lenox, " Marshal for
, Pennsylvania Diltritt" vueClementßiddle,
Efi' t . refi£,ntd. ,
*»* Note from the Editor• —Snbfcriberj
to the National Gazette may reft allured,
that there can be nopoffible risque in their
receiving their papers as usual, on account
of the maligaant fever that has prevailed
in some parts of Philadelphia. This paper
is printed and published towards the upper
end of Market-llreet, which street has
been, and still continues uncommonly
healthy. No person employed in the ty
pographical, or other work of the Na
tional Gazette, has been, or is indisposed ;
and therefore, no danger can reasonably
be apprehended irom its reception,ashere
tofure, by fubferibers.
65" The committee find that the children
whose parents and friends have died in the
prevailing disease, and whom th*y have
lound it necefl'ary to receive and fupporc
tor the prslent, though in other reipeits
fufficiently provided lor, are very deltitute
of change of cloatlnng. They therefore
request luch oftheir fellow citizens as have
childrens' cloathing to spare, to be gsod
enough to lend them to the City-Hall,
where they will be thankfully received.
By direction of the Committee,
CALEB LOWNES, Sec'ry.
Sept' 25
£5* Tne Vosi Office is removed to
the College in Fourth-st reet, between
i market and Arch-streets.
EXTRACT.
" A FUNERAL, a corpse, or a coffin, is
a fight which incessantly presents itfelf.
Our eves are so much accustomed to it,
that it hardly makes any impreflion. Thro'- _
out every season of the year, and during
the course of almolt ev»ry day, the fune
rals which pass along the streets, Ihow ui
man tuihg to h's long home. Were death
a rare and uncommon object—were it only
once in the course »f a man's life, that he
beheld one of his fel'ow creatures carried
to the grave, a solemn awe would Jill him ;
he would Itop flldft in the midit of his
ple ifures; he would even be chilled with
fecrct horror. Such imprelfions, however,
would prove unsuitable to the nature oE
our preleut state. When they became so
(trong as to render men unfit ior the ordi
nary bnfinefsoflife, they would in a great
measure defeat the intention of our being
placed in this world. It is better ordered
by the wisdom oj Providence, that they
lliould be weakened by the frequency ot"
their recurrence ; and so tempered by the
mixture of other pallions, as to allow us to
go on freely in atfing our parts on this
earth.
Yet, familiar as death is now become, it:
is undonbtedly fit, that, by an event offo
important a nature, some impreflion fliould
be made upon our minds. It ought not to
pass over, as one of those common incidents
which are beheld without concern, and a
waken nd reflection. There are many
things which the funerals of our fellow
creatures are calculated to teach ; and
happy it were for the gay and diltipated.
aristocrats and monarchift'i, the oppressors of
widows and orphans, speculators, hard
dealers, and deceptive traders, and a mul
titude of other delinquents, if they would
IHten more frequently to the inttru&ions
of so awful a monitor.
By the death of indifferent persons ; if
any can be called indifferent, to whom we
are so nearly allied as brethren by nature,
f & brethren in mortality ; when we obfervc
the funerals that pass along the streets, or
when we walk among the monuments of
death, the firft tiling that naturally strikes
lis, is the undifUnguifhing blow uith which
that common enemy levels all. We behold
: a great promiscuous multitude all carried
to the fame abode—all lodged in the fame
dark and fileht mansions. Tlfere mingle
persons of every age and character, of eve
ry rank and condition in life—the young
and the old, the poor and the rich, the
bright genius and the stupid ideot, the gay
; and the grave, the renowned arid ignoble-
A few weeks ago, molt of those, whom we
I have seen carried to the grave, walked a
bout as we do no,w on the earth ; enjoyed
their friends; beheld the light of the fun ;
and were lorraing designs for future days.
, Perhaps, it is not long lince they were en
gaged in Icenes of high feflivity. For them,
perhaps, the cheerful company afl'embled :
they were present at court levees; they
rolled from pleasure to pleasure ; and in
the midst of the circle they flione with gay
and plealing vivacity. But now—-to them,
all is finally closed. 'To them no more (hall
: the seasons return, or the fun arise. No
more (hall they hear the voice of mirth, or
■ behold the face of man. They are swept
from the universe, as though they had ne-
I ver been. They are can fed away as waft
a flood: the wind has pa fed vvtr them and
! they are gone I
How weak an emprefsis the Mind ,
Whom pleafure'sflowery wreaths cancinrt
And captive to her altars lead
Weak reason yields to frenzy's rage
And all the world is folly's stage,
And all that ast are fools indeed.
But yet this Orange, this sudden flight
From gloomy cares to gay delight,
This ficklenefs so light and vain
r In life's delutive traniient dream,
, Where men nor things are what eefo
Is all the real jood \ve gain."[From a Corrcfpondeat.~\
" That man was born to cry."—Tune,
The Indian Philosopher.
WHEN May's sweet bloom, in vernal
hue,
Enraptur'd all creation through
And spread its fvvects on high,
I walk'd the rural mead along
And heard a shepherd chaunt his song
7hat mail <tvas born to cry.
Thus sung, he cry'd, " Sweet Philomel,
(And thus his notes were heard to fwrll
And mount the azure flcy)
The various ills which curse tVie ground
" Convinc'd me oF this doleful found,
" That man was born to cry."
The Merchant fends liis {hips afar
A»d runs the rifqtie of horrid war,
In foreign realms to pry ;
'Till winds and storms dellrey hi 3 gain—
Then this great truth he owns, iti pain,
That fnan was born to c;y-
The Lawyer for hi 3 client dates.
Invokes, pleads, lies, debates
' To all eternity—
Till sick, and torn by gouty pains
He proves, by poor and weak remains,
That mart was born to cry.
The Pried, with fancied powers of mind
To heal the sick and cure the blind,
To heaven directs his eye :
But as our fins encreafe vyith age
He's more convinc'd thro' every stage,
That man was born to cry.
The Ytfuth by fickle love once flung
Attempts—(his foul with horror wrung)
Another rv.aid to try —
He roves, till faften'd to a wife,
He Hands convidk-d, thro' his life—
That man was born to cry !
At a numerous meeting of the fubflantial
Planters, Farmers, and other Yeomanry
of the county of Caroline in Virginia,
at the court-house, on the loth day of
September, 1793, being the day of hold
ing the county court, oti which they
had been previously requested to afTem
ble, for the purpsfe of taking into con
sideration the prefeat political Hate of
American affairs.
IT being considered that it Is at all
times the right, and at certain periods ihe
duty of the people to declare their prin
ciples and opinions on fubjedts which con
cern the national interefl ; and that in the
preferit conjuncture the exercise of that
duty is rendered indifpenfible by the pre
vailing pra&ice of declaratory resolutions,
in places where the inhabitants can more
easily aflemble and consult, than in the
country at large ; but where intetefts,
views, and political opinions, different
from those of the great body of the peo
ple. may happen to predominate, when£j
thete may be danger of unfair and deluJ
five inferences concerning the true and ge
neral sense of the people :
In declaring ours however, since our re
mote situation from the great scene of pub
lic tranfaftions, we cannot possess a timely
and diredt knowledge of particular inci
dents, and the condudt of persons concern
ed therein ; it is judged moll prudent to
wait with a decent reserve for clear and
full information relative thereto ; and in
public declarations to abide by those great
principles, just sentiments, and established
truths, which can belittle affected by tran
sitory or personal occurrences.—
Therefore, as the unanimous sense of
this meeting,
Resolved, That the constitution of the
United States ought to be firmly and vi
gilantly supported against all direct, or in
direct attempts that may be made to sub
vert or violate the fame.
Resolved, That as it is the true interefl
of the United States to cultivate the pre
servation of peace, by all just and honora
ble means, the executive authority ought
to be supported in the exercise of its con
stitutional powers and functions, for en
forcing the laws existing for that purpose.
Resolved, That the eminent virtues and
fervicet of our illustrious fellow-citizen,
George IVaJhington, President of the Unit
ed States, entitle him to the highest ref
pedt, confidence, and lasting gratitude oi
his country ■, whose peace* liberty, and
fafety must ever remind it of his diftin«
gnifVied agency in the attainment of those
incftimable bleflings.
Resolved, That the eminent and gene
ous aids rendered to the United States in
:heir arduous struggle for liberty by the
French nation, ought ever to be remem
bered and acknowledged with gratitude
and kind affe&ion ; and that the fpefta
:le exhibited by the glorious and severe
:onteft it is now engaged in for its own
ibirty, ought, and mud be peculiarly in
:ere(ling to the wishes, the friendlhip, and
the sympathy of the people of America.
Resolved, That all attempts which may
be made, in whatever form or disguise, to
alienate the good will of the people of
America from the cause of liberty and re
publican government in France, have an
evident tendency to weaken their aff«£\ion
to the free principles of their own govern
ments ; and manifell designs which ought
to be narrowly watched and seasonably
countera&ed.
Resolved, That such attempts to dis
unite nations mutually attached to the
cause of liberty and viewed with unfriendly
eyes by all who hate it, ought more par
ticularly to be reprobated at the present
crisis; when such vast efforts are making
by a combination of princes and nobles,
to crulh an example which, th«y fear, may
open the eyes of all mankind to their na
tural and political rights.
Resolved, That a diflolution of the ho
norable and beneficial connection between
the United States and France, must obvi
aufly be attempted with a view to forward
a plan of a more intimate union and con
nexion of the former with Great-Britain,
<is a leading step towards assimilating the
American government to the form and spi
rit of the British monarchy : And these
apprehensions will be greatly strengthened,
if it (hall appear that the a&ive zeal dis
played •in propagating prejudices against
the French nation and revolution, hath
proceeded from persons cither difaffe£ted
toil e American revolution, or of known
monarchical principles.
Resolved, That sll foreign ministers to
the United States ought to negociate the
purpose of their million with the Presi
dent : If at any time a difference in opi
nion should happen on the exposition of
treaties or other fubjeits, the fame ought
to be dated by the minister, to the go
verning powers of his nation ; that on a
difculfion between the two governments,
an amicable adjustment may be effected,
and peace and friendfliip preserved : And
all applications of a minister in such a cafe,
to the people, who ast with foreign nati
ons only by their representatives in the
different departments of the government,
are highly improper, and tend to create
parties and diffentions amongst U9. Never,
thelefs, if a minister lhall adopt such im
proper cbnduft on any occasion, although
the application ought to be treated with
contempt by she people, yet it (hould n»t
affect his nation, nnlefs it (hall avow and
jullify his conduct therein : We therefore
detlare'bur disapprobation of certain at-
late newspaper publications, to
fttafeeTcnVc alledged behaviour of that kind
fn tfi'c minister of the French nation, if
arfyTuih really ekifted, the means of with
drawing our afteftion either from the be
loved 'President, or our refpeftable allies.
Ordered, That the foregoing resolutions
be forthwith printed in the several news
paperS id this state, and that a fair copy
of them be transmitted to the President oi
the United States by the Chairman.
By order of the meeting,
Edmund Pendleton, Chairman,
Attest,
Wm. Nc/foit, Secretary.
I
Foreign Intelligence.
Edinburgh, July 23. A general meet,
ing of the inhabitants of Paisley was 011
Saturday last, by authority of the magi
strates, held to deliberate on the moll
proper mode of applying some temporary
relief to the great number of poor tradcf
men at present out of employment in that
place, which humane business being con
cluded* the declining state of trade and
universal distress of the country becamt
the fubjeft of difcufiion, when the meet
ing was unanimously of opinion, that th«
ruinous war in which Britain is now en
gaged is the sole fojrce of the present
very great and incrtafing calamities; and
that an humble petition to his majesty ;
praying, that a speedy contlufion may b(
put to it, would be highly proper al
this time. A committee of twenty-oni
wa» accordingly appointed to prepare th<
fame for fubfeription, and manage the bu
finefs with as much expedition as its im
portance required.
simjlerdam, July 21. Letters from Elfi
neur mention, that the French daily en
creafe their privateers along the coasts,
buying for this purpose all forts of vefMs
they can lay hold of. Moreover, that the
French privateer, Sans pareil, had taken
twelve English and four Dutch (hips,
modly with corn ; the French also burnt
at sea, a Dutch (hip, loaded with beams,
and brought up to Norway three Scotcfi
vefiels, with iron and deals. '1 he Sans
pareil has also taken a Dutch frigate o]
20 guns, which was fitted for an hofpita
(hip.
Plymouth, July 27. Tt is currently re
ported here that the French have a fieel
of men of war in the bay, confiding of 17
fail of the line, bclides frigates, &c. and
that they have made advances towards the
British channel ; but the mdre probable
account is, and which is also reported,
that the French have that number in Qui
beron bay, and 4 fail of the line in Bred
water ready for sea ; it certainly appear!
that gorernment are apprehensive of a fleet
being eqtial in fdrce to that under the
command of Earl Howe, as the greated
exertions have been used since lad evening,
to get the Intrepid and Sampson ready,
to flrengthen the fleet.
fiily 31. The capitulation of Mentz is
honourable to both parties. The terms
are such a# a garrison, who had (hewn
they were ready to defend the place with
their bodies, after the outworks, the only
drength of Mentz besides, were taken, had
a right to demand. The king of PrufTia
only refufed leave to carry away their field
pieces, which it is doubtful whether they
brought with them or found there ; and
before adding the usual article of deliver
ing up deserters, allowed the taking away
of coveted waggons, reserving the fight
to search them if he fiiould think proper
—the underdood tilode of conveying away
deserters in Europeati warfare, whom the
conqueror, except in very particular in
dances, never wishes to fee.
There are letters in towrt brought by
the lall (hips from India, of a very serious
import. They date, that Tippoo Saib
had made frefh objeflions to comply with
the obligations of the treaty, and perem
torily refufed to make the last payment.
In consequence it was generally under
dood, that Lord Cornwallis's departure
from India, would be delayed under the
apprehension that hostilities might be re
newed.
Franlfort, July 22. The French, to
the number of 40,000, endevavoured on
the 18th to force their way from Landau
to relieve Mentz: they made attacks in
three different places, and repulsed the A"u
drians at fird ; but were afterwards put
between two fires by the Audriana and
Pruflians, and driven back with great lots.
This event has probably occaiioned the
surrender of Mentz.
Turin, July 8. The king set out a few
days ago to visit the fortrefies and armies,
and to make the necefiary dispositions. On
the 6th instant we received the ratifications
of the treaty of alliance and subsidy con
cluded between our court and that of Lon
don.
Our loss in the engagement which took
place in the county of Nice on the Bth and
1 2th ult. between our troops & the French,
is at length ascertained—it amounts to
1500 men killed, wounded, and priloners;
among this number are 70 officers.
(£s* ALL persons in arrears for this paper,
and port matters and others who may hav e
received fubfeription money on account of
the fame, are requested to make speedy
remittances. To prevent the dues fwel.
ling to an improper amount, 110 pipers will
be continued to iubferibers after the 26th ot
Oft. inft. who shall th,en be indebted more
than fix months.—Punctuality of payment
in fubferibers, is the firft requisite in
undertakings of this nature, and without
which it is impoflible that any publication,
depending merely on fubfeription, can long
exilt.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to St: fold at the refpeQive Book Stores o)
Jofepb CrukJljank and Tbtmas Dob/on, and may
be had at the Printing office, No. 209, Mar
ket-Street (" Price cite eighth of a dollar.]
LETTERS,
Addressed to the Yeomanry of the
United States:
Containing foine Observations on Funding
and Bank Syjlems'.
BY an AMERICAN FA&MER.
Allen tfwnjhtf, Lovcafltr county.,
To the Eleßors for the City and County of
Philadelphia.
Gentlemen,
I" RETURN you my sincere thanks for
all former repeated favors, and solicit a
:ontinuance thereof at the ensuing Elec
tion for the Coroner's office, which will
lay an additional obligation on, and be
gratefully acknowledged by your much
obliged friend and humble Tervant,
JOHN LEACOCK, Ctroner.
Sept. 25, 1793-
EIGHT DOLLARS REWARD.
RAN AWAY on the 20th of June last, from
the fubferiber living in Caroline county, ia
clie ttate of Maryland, near Choptank Bridge, a
NEGRO HOY, named Jonathan, about i<j
years of age —he is free born, but a bound fervanc
until 21 years of age—he is tolerably stout and
strait built, has a yellow cast in his countenance,
talketh wi;h his tongue against his teeth, hat
large thick feet, his toes square to the end«—his
mother's nam« is Lidye, who now lives in Jones*
Neck in Delaware state, where the boy has form
ed some acquaintance since he run away. Any
person taking him up, mart ad with the greatest
caution, or he will give them the flip. Whoever
takes up the said boy, and secures him so that
the owner may have him again, (hall have the
above reward, paid by
WILLIAM JACfCSON*
Sept. 4, 1793. 2*w6w
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold by Thomas Dobson, Wil
liam Young, Robert Campbell,
Melfrs. Rice and Co. and John M'
Culloch, No. 1, North Third-street,
AN EXAMINATION of the lute pro
ceedings in Congress refpefting the
official cdmlucl of the Secretary of the
Treasury ; with Observations, &c. on the
application of loans from Holland, negoti
ated under the aits of the 4th and 12th of
Augult 1790. —The price of the above
pamphlet is three fifteenths of a dollar, or
is 4iT. i-2, April 24. 2aw tf
*«* The author requests his Headers to
correct the following ERRATA in the
aamphlet above mentioned. Page j.
line 1 i —2d. paragraph, ior Coalition read
Cillijion. Page 25. line tl—2d. parag,
nltead of Bank direttori read "Stock
holders."
Seat of War.
FOR S A L E,-
At M. Carey's Store, 118, Mar
ket-street.
A SHEET MAP
Of the French, Austrian and Dutch Ne
therlands,
In which the progress of the present War
mny be traced.
Price three eighths of a Dollar.
And a MAP of the
Three-Northern Diftridts of France, di
vided into Departments—Price
one fourth of a Dollar.
Maps of the United States :
ANY public-spirited gentlemen, pofleiled with
materials for correcting and improving the
maps of the several (rates, will lay M. Carey
under very particular obligations, by communi
cating them. He is in immediate want of some
for New-Jersey and Delaware j of which states,
he is now preparing maps.
Guthrie's Geography :
THE fubfeription for this woik will be conti
nued open, at the present tare of twelve dollars,
till the firft day of November next j after which
t will be raised to fourteen dollars.
August io<
At Private Sale,
To be fold a LOT of LAND,
IN TredyfFrin town/hip, Chester county, distant
from Philadelphia about i 3 miles, and from
Lancaster road about 3.4th®, containing TWEN
TY-FIVE ACRES. Of this lot about 8
acres only are cleared—the reft is woodland, con
fiding chiefly of young Chefnitt Timber.There are
on the premises a Loe Dwelling Houle, Weaver's
Shop, a double Log Barn, a young Bearing Or
chard of 50 Trees, about 3 acres of watered
Meadow, a good Spring, and a never-failing
St ream of Water, running from a spout near the
door. From its situation and the great advan
tage of raifmg the water, it is thought to be an
eligible place for a Distiller, Tanner, Currier or
Malfter. For terms apply near the premises t®
MORDECAI MOORE.
September 3, 1793. iaw3vr
WANTED,
IN TWO OR THREE MONTHS,
AN APPRENTICE
REGULAR A POT If EC ART. |
A Youth not less than fifteen or iixtetn
years of age, with a suitable education, ard
good moral character.—For further parti
culars enquire of the Editor. 2a\vtf
PRINTED BY
CHI LD S AND SWAINE.
AT THUK 4FFICE NO. log, HIGH-STUCK T§
N£AR rirTH-BTR f IT,
'HILADIi.ru! A#