„ , nr and Saturdays, ("Three Dollars per annum. 1
By P.FRENEAU- (at No. 209, Market Street) Pubhfhtd Wednesdays *nd L V
N UMB. IO 2 of Vol. ll.]
From the Baltimore Evening Post.
IN a republican government, freedom of
fpeeclianc! fentmient on governmental
affairs, provided they do not degenerate
into anarchial licentioufnefsj is tonlklei ed
as the palladium ot liberty—Liberty con
fills in the sovereign pawer being veiled in
the people. Long hud the people ot'all na
tions not only yielded up the fruits of part,
but conceded a right to the fruits of future
labour, to the greedy avarice of kings anil
priells; until thel'e confederated dates re
moved and d filiated the clouds ot prepof
session and prejudice which darkened tin
intelle&ual world—Too long had the hn
man race, born to equal rights and equal
freedom, been marked with haughty do
mination on the one part, and abj.ct thral
dom oil the other. America was the only
quarter of the globe that remained unpol
luted with the hideous monster of arbitra
ry power—tis true, young as {he w : , cor
ruption had defiled her—but an abortion
effected a purification. Experience, the
preceptor of wifdoin, taught her tliat with
out civil government to check vice ami
proieft virtue, tliere could be no true and
solid criterion of j.iltice—Thatthe arbitra
ry maxims elfjblillied by kings and pi'iefts
"of the ministers o 1 " government hating an
inherent right over the people" was tlie
mod abfnrd and spurious idea that ever
was adopted by i cominu lity. A repub
lie, where tile people at large choofn their
reprefcntative*, who when chiiien diverge
irom the different parts of the date, and
convene at a delignated place for the pur
pose of legifl ition, delineates one of the
mofl perfect fyltems of political mechanif.ii
that can be plained—this is thefy'leni thai
America Has chosen. Whatever is resolv
ed by this constituted authority cannot fail
of nfwfing filch fati failion in the mind a;
to cause regularity and harmony to operate
upon the will o. each member of society.
In ficli a government as this there is no
thing to create averfion —If a person dele
gated, acto in opposition to the wilhes of his
con'.litueuts, the harmony of the fyllem is
easily redored by difpiacing him, & putting
ill a lother of a less jarring disposition—this
is what invigorates the springs of govern
ment, and gives them drength to withstand
the fliocks of ambitious men.
Peace and moderation is the spirit of a
republic—cultivate virtue and you eternize
its duration. The spirit of monarchy is
war and enlargement ot dominion ; {laugh
ter and avarice are the springs which keep
it in motion: from this we may infer at
ieaft the probability, that monarchy took
its rife from an extraneous principle tiiat
has spoiled the original delicate texture of
the heart, and caused it to become the
abode of all those paflions and corrupt al
feitions which we experience to flow ironi
thence and de'lroy the peace and harmony
of mankind.—Without a delution or sen
ses and a perveriion of understanding. the
mind is not capable of giving a preference
to monarchy, becaufp there is nothing nil -
tricient to a political union; a id he mull
be a unique in politics indeed, who thinks,
that a durable political Jtru&ure can be
erected upon {laughter and avarice, be
caule it is morally impollible.
11 is the opinion of some, that a govern
ment composed of the three original ones,
is bed calculated to advance tie welfart
and prosperity of a nation. The princi
pies of the three governments are—Virtue,
or amor patriiE, the mod sublime of all so
cial virtues; this is the principle of a re
public ; here it is that each organ found
Liberty and Equality. Honour, that is tlit
prejudice of every person and every rank,
or a delire of exalting one's felt upon thi
downs all of another, is the principle wlp' I
sets themonarchical wheel in motion; hen
it is that one part of the creation is. toilim
to fnpport the other in luxury and gran
deur. Fear is the other ingredient t<
complete the jarring mixture, this is tht
principle of despotism ; here it is that ma;
is a creature that submits to the abfoluti
■will of a creature like himfelf, man's por
tion here like that of Brutus, is inftincl
compliance, and punifliment. Tile gov
ernment of England (upon which so ill. nj
encomiums have been and are daily lavish.
Ed, and which is so much admired by tli
arifiocrnts, or to fimplify the word, torie
of America) prefects to our view the ti re<
foregoing principles of government conso
lidated, and of course the mod finiflied
hotchpotch of difeprdant contrarieties that
were ever thrown together : wliicli fully
discovers the illegitimacy of its origin. A
grecable to the principles laid down, ava-
SATURDAY,* October 19, 1793
lice, ambition and fear," are its component
parts, or in other words, the king, tilt
iortl?, and commons. Avarice and Ambi
lion, as is very natural. Coon jjftled/t'ar
out of its liberty and rights ; bavin;
thrown fear out of its own, ihsy have eve 1
lince been quarrelling and wretiling tor an
Icendancy over eacji other. Can princi
ples of such clashing natures poffioly pro
uce >cate, content and harmony ? If they
cannot, which mult be obvious upon a mo
ments reflection, th£ end which the forma
[ion of fuciety meant to promote, is abfo
iutely fruftrated. To be brief and expli
lit, tiie king and lord tnay be considered
(and ju£ll y too.) as two putrid Itreams
burltiug from a cor; upt and cankered lore.
ihat has fed deep into, anil spoiled the mo
rai texture of the political heart ot Great-
Britain ; but'from what malignant tain;
this calamitous Ikltnefs may "nave cert fin!)
taken its rife, 1 will not undertake to-ile
cide. Wliat may have been the true cauft
is not so material ; the effect is what more
immediately comma.ids our attention
riiepeopleofEnsia.nl have been" kinged
ind lorded over, and prielt ridden for ill i
ly centuries pall ; like gentlemen of the
law, they jump to a conelufion that what
lad once been done may be continued ti
>e done. Thus, what was ri vetted on the
aeople by their ina.tivity. remiffnefs am:
«norance, centuries agony prece dent, h ii c
low ripened into I i\v , and fay they, to 11-
lihilaie this precedent would be an inno
vation on that Urufture of wisdom wliicn
aur ancestors (pent so much time and deli
aeration in perfecting- Strange indeed! tin
leople of England choose (1 ivery in prefer
.-■•ice to libei :y ; because eltabliihed by pi e
cedent.
The reign of Charles Ifd. offers To om
view a very important fpeitacie in Inf
:ory ot England ; under the inaui'p'cioii:
direction of Cromwell (who wa< void o
ill public virtue;, and whole ambition wa
nUaiued by the fhccef> of hi bold endea
vors) did the people of England attempi
:o trample under foot the duckies of (la
very ; but he was suppressed by a fucceed
iig faction, which involved the govern
siient in a continual change; the people
dtoiliflied to fee so many revolutions, Cough
nelfcftually for a repub.ic. At len th
lfter a series of turbulent commotions aui
violent fliocks, they we.'e nec.iii.a!i-d ti
.lave recourse to the govern neflt th -v ha;
iborninated anil profcrihed At tint pe
riod the world was was not fu Hciently en
lightened. The arts of delulio i ". ere tin
inghly cultivated not to beguile the pie
who co no >fe the m .j >rity of eveo
nation Had they, like the people o
t'rsiicg, as soon as they discovered tha
private ambition had invaded the heart oi
iiieir leader, anil virtue was expelled
made an example of him by lopping of
his heat!, and branding him with ignominy
they would have been a» fuccefsful in thcii
Itrugjie for liberty, asour friends and altie
the people of France. Hltt frenchmen, 1
mult confers, hid a greater opportunity o
accomplishing their undertaking than tht
people of England. For the revolution ii
America, it nnift be acknowledged by al
mankind, affords as much light to the mo
ral and political, as the fun does to tli
natural world. This probably may bi
conlidereti by en hufialtic aristocrats, a-= the
mere phantafma of an infatuated mind ;
but time will develope to them light tc
extricate themlelv.es from the error o
despotic education and ignorant prepof
fefiion.
America has taught France, and is abtfni
to teach the world, to tranfmnte govern
ment into a (late ami form in which tht
people may be capable of a more actele
rated progrtjjlion in knowledge, virtue ant
liappinefs. It is true the transmutation ir
America was attended with blood and d f
aftrous calamity, for the space of fevci
Tea r s —But the profpeft of a more exaktc
exiftencc, conlitteiu with, and promotive
of that happiness flie now enjoys, gave hei
vigour and itrength to witlifland the fhocl<
of British canaon. TJie fame happinef
and prosperity which we enjoy, is now ii
the embryo of time for-every other mtior
upon the g obe, and nothing is wanting tc
give it birth but virtue and conrnge.
The government of the American States
appears to me to be better calculated for
the happiness of mankind than any other:
brca.ile it has a gre.t-r conformation to
the equality that v. edifcover in tinman na
inre ; anil because it exempts one man
from the fubje£tiou of another, so far onl>
as the harmony and oeconoifiy of govern
ment will permit—as all;mankind fliareom
commo'i natuue, we have fa conrtrufted
our government, that equal liberty [hould
extend to each individual of the commu
nity—lt does not bellow honours and pri
vileges upon a particular branch or claf> ol
citizens, at the expence of tliofe upo
whom fortune has not lavished affluence
and plenty,as is the cafe in the kingdoms
of Europe—lt does not aggravate the mis
fortunes of the poor, by felting upon them
a mark of ignominy, as in England ; but
merit meets vvitl) its reward, whether
found in the coblei's (hop or the itatef.nau'»
hall.*
It is to trie foiriewhat afto'nifliing, that
the people of Europe do not renounce
urfanimoufly ah fubjeition to royal govern
ment; which'being founded in the corrupt
principles of human natiire, tends only to
pervert the moral sentiments of mankind.
tJ deepen the corruption of their nature,
difqifivlify them for the acquisition of vir
uie, is wtii us nigral a.,.! ,<■ ■: •! happi
nef>, nd, e.v ccijejuenti, fneffeituafd th
very of their creation ;—But it is to be
accounted for only from their looking
through a glass brightened by the illtllive
ray .ot monarchy and aristocracy. she
en.l of government jein; preservation ;
every gov- ii'iient being foui.ded original
ly Upon iujilft ce (iiricfs the sovereign pow -
er is in thi poflettion of the people ; it fol
low. a- an undeiiiab'ie confequeni e, tha:
ifu government can be f> happy as that in
vi'iiicll the people rfre ftipreme.
lnjreafe of dominion, was tlie ambition
if Rome; war the delight of Sparta ; but
peace aud tranquility with all mauk'/.d, k
rile joy and particular. view of the confe
ileration ofthe American dates. In order
to preserve this turn of mind in any go
vernment, virtue is indispensably riecefl'ai y;
a>itl a cuitiv ation or virtue, is as neceflary
to gii - order, tranquility, strength and vi
g ir to a political, as moderate exercise is
to preserve health to the animal body.—
Whenever ariltocratic feutimei:ts creep
,rit<~ a republic like ours, it is an unerring
proof tnat virtue laiiguidies, and of course
;1 feafe relates the body politic ;—then it
i . that tile political physician (liotild exert
»»eiy facility to ttrengthen its sinews.—
Tiieptefent crilis is the mod important
[ince our declaration of independence and
elt iblilhment as a free poople—lt is now
every exertion fliould be made to ftabi
lita'.e our exiltence as an enlightened re
public. — Foreign aristocrats are daily emi
grating to our country, and are, in concert
with our federal conjurors, exerting
every faculty, £very nerve, in the diflVmi
oation of their anti-republican principles.
This, then, is the grand conjn .ct 111 e in
which each citizen (houltl make every cf
fort to prevent himfelf from being led
atlray from tfce path of virtue; and th'es
to enable America lo avoid the diabolical
I'vflem ofpolitics'and morals which Euri pe,
in combination, tre endeavoring to im
pose upon tiie world. Why do I fay dia
btribal P Because they are reduced to the
ilecelliry of having recoluTe to the fw.ord
to vindicate their arbitrary doctrine. Does
this not prove, beyond the possibility of a
fcriiple, that the principles they willi to
ellablilh. can no longer, in Europe, be in
cuculcated bv sophistry and dehilion ? —
The days of chivalry and delulion are over,
arid the riurfe of wifdoin, virtue arid inaniv
leiitiiuent, has begun to tutor the world
—a fyllem of politics, founded upon such
prim iples-, that, like mathematical pro
grelEon, every Hep forces the afl'ent of the
tnhid as they advance; and conducts it at
iail, overpowered with conviction, to the
truth proposed to be demonflrated.
A fyltein ot' government founded upon
rational conviction, is the only one that
c m pollibiy tend to the removal of public
and private d fcontent, disorder and mlfe
y; and fubftltute in theirplace public and
private content, harmony, profpenty and
universal happitiefs—A fyllem which Ame
rica has chofeil, and which, if univerf dly
adopted, would effectually banilh ftwrj
from the human race, enfnre to all man
kind Liberty and a flock of wealth, as am
ple and affluent as either his reason would
allow him to desire. or his haj pinefs perron
him to pofi'efs. —For a people to avail
thehifelves of this happiness. they must cul
tivate virtue; because it is the guardian
of liberty ; morals, without which true
pairiotiftn can never glow in the human
breast—education, because it is the source
of morality. They mull reward zeal for the
public good, by punifliing fraud and court
intrigue. Whilfl this continues to be done,
I venture with confidence to predtt, that
the United States of America, will not be
jostled into indigence, or gulled out of li
berty—the inborn right of man : But liber-
[Total Numb. 2c6 ]
ty. prosperity and happiness, will be a
b.effiag coexiltent with the coufederatioil 1
of che AinerkanSflates.
A Friend to the People.
Annapolis, Sept, 30, 1793.
FOREIGN NEWS.
LIVERPOOL, (England) August
The pilgrim, Hutchinfon, frdm Bafba
:loes, arrived here this day ; on tile 3d of
May (he fell in with the La Libertie, oi'
twelve (ix pounders, in Lit. s- N. ' "'£• -!3-
A-eft ; both snips engaged, and continued
in obstinate fight until the 7th, when Ihe
truck to the Pilgrim. She is a veiyfine
hip, of 800 tons burthen, with a vei y ma
ilable cargoe., Ihe was carried into B.;r
ladoec., and there condemned. The cap:,
>i'the prize iid 5 men wot . d»
■d :—oife man killed and three wounded
>11 board the Pilgrim.
The Indiaman's cargo cod t ie,ccol fler
ing in Bengal, ex:lulive of private p'o
>erty hid Been out three years, and is
uppofed to be worth at leali 150.0001.
Vlanifeft of the cargo of the I.a I.i icrtf :
133,557 pieces of yellow and white Nan
ceens—150 sards sugar, orabcti; isohogf
le.uls —-i cherts China ware—lß do. Vo
:her o'Pearl—l39 do. cinnamon—lß3 b;:leS
if Surat goods, differenj <J i ilities—2 cm-Its
>f Fakee (ilk—l do.'cotton wollenduff—
I bales of M iccinees— l7 do. of Caflileis—
13 do. of Bagatapaex of Snrat—l s'o of
Tapfel—2oo. of Corott—2 chefls ol silk
lianufaftory—t cafe Nankeen calco—2o
Jo. linages—l chest Printed paper—loß
acks of Malahai pepper—l bale of mufliti
—3 do. white Linen— 90 do. Cottoil— 7 do.
3engal goods—l Embroidered waiflcoat—«
;s4 thefts of Tea—6 parcels Sugar Candy
— 1 do. Fowtaragre Lucca—l do. Medical
-oofs—soo Gardels pepper.
Extra'l of a Utter pom Vienna, July 26.
" A pi 111 is now laid to be on foot, the
and execution of which will it
is said, be the only condition on whieil
leacewillbe accorded to France. This
i!an is to contain an unmeliorated arc! new
ronOitution tor France, which w ill be fn ft
"ent to the French princes, und the mod
II iprejudiced chefs of the counter revolu
tion, that they my make their remarks up
:>ii it. It will then be communicated to
the neutral powers, which > re to be previ
-1 ufly invited to guarraiitee it. . After these
preliminary steps, it is to be proclaimed to
the French nation in a inanifefto. i wli c'i
tt will be declared, (hat the combined pow .
i's propose, as the fundamental cohclit 01
f negociatibris for peace, the acceptance
ot the said plan, without wh ; ch t!..y uiH
never ackndwled Fr.nce a a-virf lepe dent
ft.'te. In cafe of a n-fufal, ti.e whole
French nation is to be cu fid red as the
enemy of all civilized n itio 1 ant! tre: te
as filth. France, in cafe of lion aicept
;mcc, is threatened with total cbihien bef
inent to pay the cxpences of the \i ar."
A declaration of war, by the Emperor
of Germany, ag-iinll the Republic oi' Ve
nice, is immediately expected.
The following is a literal extrafl of a
letter from an officer in the fleer under
Earle Howe, now returned to Torbay.
" We had just a light (if the French, and in
such a stark calm, that neither the number
nor force of their (hips are known with
prccifion. Our vefl'eUcould make no way,
and theirs were probably in the fame con
dition. Heavy gale% which fticCeeded
within forty hoitrs after, forced 11s from a
station we would willingly have kept, aid
obliged us to come into the channel. Our
ihiy here will be II oit ; rot more than a
week if the wind permit us to fail afain."
Letters from Paris, dated the nil. inlV.
(late, that the Federation oh (he jo'h
inft. wa not marked with any difuftious
event. Tli-s, how ever hits not appeased
the solicitude of the inhabitants. The
fellival of the Federation was celcbrarcd
iaft year aifo in profound tranquility, but
011 that very day were concerted the fan -
guinary meaftires for the joih of Aigufl:
and 2d of September, and from an ong the
FederalilH the fitteft tool* wt rechofen for
their execution. These w ere kept at Paris,
and the othersFent back into their difftrent
departments.
These letters farther flste. that the
Queen has undergone three different exa
minations, with an intrepidity, a prefenct
of mind, and a precision in her aufwerij
which Article with snir zcment ard cofri
[>let«ly difoftmflied lief judges.—Vj;4bU u»rid her guilty in any refp*& whatever,
hey have ordered Jier to be removed from
the Conuergerie to a more decent place ol
confinement, and her cause ia taken from
tiie Revolutionary Tribunal, and referred
to the committee of public welfare. We
tear Chat a co dideruhie party is endeavor-.
in£ to f.ive her life, while another, of no
less conf*quenVe, is aiming to ule her only
a an instrument to check the progrcf,
of the Anftrians.
Two couriers arc fait] to have been sent
by the National Convention to the Prince
of Cobourg, vvitli a view of commencing a
segociation concerning the Queen.
By these couriers it is aft'erced, that the
National Convention lias written word tu
the Prince of Cobourg, that if he Ihould
advance farther on tin territory cf the
Republic, tiie Queen should futfer imme
diate death. The-'Princ-e is said to have
returned in answer, that he commanded a
victorious army, enraged at the excesses
committed by the revolutioniits, and de
termined to avenge them, and that it any
attempt .honld be made agajnfi the life ot*
the .Queen, no Hone ihould remain upon
another at Paris.
PHILADELPHIA.
Saturday, October 19.
It is with the gre.itelt fatisfa&ion that
we can now inform tile public, from care
ful enquiry ami adtuai observation, that
the mortality in this city has suddenly and
furprizingly abated lince the rain on Tues
day la(t, and the coiifequent cold northern
winds, and froftj. Not mure than 8 or'io
are now reckoned darigerauQy ill at the
hofpiral ; the bu r, als in the city visibly de
ersafe ; and tho'thofe in tiie Utter llages
of the disorder cannotbe much benefiteil by
the salutary change in the atmosphere; yet
Itill it may be reasonably fa id, that very
little is to be apprehended at present, from
the malignant fever, by those 111 health,who
Jive temperately, and obferye a prudent
caution in their intercourse with the sick.
Letters from Knoxvilie to the latter
end of Aujuft, mention great diitreffes in
that country from tiie depredations and
murders of the Indians. Within 20 miles
of Knoxvilie, there is 110 Itirrin* out of the
forts without the molt imminent danger of
being scalped.
General Wayne's army had not yet
moved 011 the 26th of Augult. They w ere
to proceed on Gen. St. Clair's old road as
. far as Fort Jefferton.
A London paper {late?, that on the sift
of July, the combined and Sjianilh
fleets, confuting of 78 fail of the line, were
then lying before Toulon.
Accounts from France to Aug. 23, men
tion foiue considerable fucceUes of the ar
mies ot the North over portions of the
combined armies. On the 19th the French
made an attack on the village of Blanton,
and entirely defeated the enemy, putting
two companiei of emigrant troops to the
sword, who wore the Orange uniform. 011
the fame day the French attacked the vil
lage of Lincelle, and took poflufiion of a
redoubt.—The enemy, having l'uftained
great los , evacuated both villages on the
fame day, leaving behind tliem their am
munition and baggage waggons. The al
lied army loft more th.ui one thousand
killed, and forty waggon loads of wound
ed were seen to go off.
By a decree of the Convention, palled
Aug. 15, bread, biscuit, all kinds of lleili,
fruit, cyder, wine, brandy, vinegar, oil,
fait, honey, sugar, fo.ip, lard, coal, un
wrought iron, paper, linen. fluffs and mil
lenary (lilks excepted) are foibidden to be
exported from che territories of the Re
public.
On the 24th the Convention decreed,
that the livre lhall be divided into 10 equal
parts, called dimes, the dimes into 10 pares,
named cents, so that a livre fnall contain
100 cents; and that ill future all French
money Ihould be estimated by livres, and
decimal fraftiontof ljvres.
On the 14th el Auguftthe combined ar
mies had advanced as far as. M uibeuge, on
tlieir .vay towards Liflj, but were attacked
by che French army ; and ufcer afevere ac
tion, were obliged to retreat to their for
mer po!t, near Valencien'nes. The ir.fur
gents were in conliderable force ; but on
the 10th of August were defeated at Ven
dee, with the lof> of 7000 men, and aquan
tity of cannon.
A great many American vefl'els are de
tained in the ports of France, in coufe
quence of an embargo, laid by order of the
Convention.
Decreeof the 23d of Aug. for the augmen
tation ot tne armed force.
Art. t. From this moment, tothat when
the enemy (hall be driven out of the terri
tory of the republic, all the French are re
quired to be ready for service under arms.
The young men lliafi go to combat; the
married men lhall forge arms; the
women lhall make tents, clothes and serve
asnurfes in the hospitals; the childien lhall
fi;rape lint; the oid men lhall be taken to
pub.ic places to excite the courage of the
warriors, by preaching ••hatred to kings,
and unity to the Republic."
2. The buildings belonging to the nation
•ClJ 1 be changed for the time, into bar
rackS/ l he public fquarei into (tables fur
liorfes; the caves for extra&iug saltpetre.
3' The uiufquets shall be exclulively
given to those who g« to the armies. The
mterier service (hall be performed with
sou ling pieces ami broad fvvords.
4. All saddle horses (hall be ordered fur
tile service of the artillery.
5. The coinijiittee of public fafety, in
conjunction with the exemtive council, is
charged to take the necefl'ary measures for
eltablifhing an extraordinary fabricitio.i
<>f arm's, which may answer to the eager
ness aiitl energy of the people. Thirty mil
lions of bvres lhall be put into the hands ol
the minister at war for this purpose. -The
central place of fabrication to be at Paris.
6. Representatives of the people whe
are sent to the departments to execute the
piefent decree, (hall have the fame powei
111 their rel'peftive districts as thole at pre
lent in the army.
7- No fubllitutes can be allowed in the
(ervice tor which any man is upon ; anc
ilie magi Crates, or functionaries, lhall re
mail at their pods.
8. The recruiting (hall be universal ; —
the citizens from 18 to 25 lhall march the
tirlt ; they ill all aflfemble without delay.
9 The reprefectatives of the peopit
lhall take the neceflary precautious to pre
veot the citizens from aflenibling. only a:
prow fioniare provided for them, at theii
places appointed for muttering.
10. The piaces for aflemolin;!li.ill bt
appointed as circumltances equire, an;
deligued by their representatives.
it. Each place (hall have its battalion
with a lia:idard bearing the following in
Icription : ** The French people ri(e agajnf
tyrants." (Le Francois debou
contre les Tyrants.) The organizitioi
and pay of these battalions (hall be the fami
as those now 011 the frontiers.
12- To obtain a fufficient quantity o
provilions, the farmers and overseers o
t.'ie national lands (hall gather the pro
duce of their lands, and depollt them ii
the principal granaries of their refpeclivt
diltrifls.
13 The proprietors, farmers, and hold
ers of grain, are ordered to pay their ar
rearages in grain, even the two thirds oj
those of 1793.
14. The National Convention adds tc
the number of its representatives near the
army, the citizens Chabot, Tallien, Le-
Carpentier, Dartigoite, Boiifet, &c.
•5- The'envoys of the Primary Assem
blies are reqnefted to ilTeaible immediate
ly in their refpe&ivediltricts, to fulfil theit
civic niiflion, agreeable to Lheir decree ol
the 14th of August.
IC. Ihe Mi lifter of War is charged to
fend inftru£tio'ns and military agents, and
take every measure uecefTiry for the exe
cution of the present decree. Kitty mil-
Ijons of livres (hall be veiled in his hands,
for this purpose, to be at his disposal.
We hear from Elizabeth-town, that a
pestilential difeafc prevailed in a great de
gi Ce near that neighbourhood, during the
summer, among horses ; and which car
ried off great numbers.
" On dogs and mules the infettion firfl
began.
And lajl, the vengeful arrtws fix'd on
man."
Gov. Gaibau, who lately fled from
is'ew-Y oi*k, has been seized and imprison
ed at Fort St- John's in Canada, l'ill the
governor s pleafurc be known concerning
him. On the 25th of Sept. Lord Dorches
ter arrived at Quebec from England.
Capt. Martin, of the ship Proviclence,
arrived at New Nork, from L*:th, in lat.
40. was boarded by the Britifli frigate Bos
ton, on the 7th inft. on a cruise, fleering
to the southward and eastward : and on
the 1 ith, he was boarded by the French
Republic's flup Concorde, to the eastward
of Montauk point : the French fleet were
then in company ; after which they conti
nued their course in the track of the Bof
to;i frigate.
Letters from Spain to August 18, fay
that the expedition of the Spanish and
English fleet: to the Mediterranean, and
Toulon, was completely broken up. A
raging malignant fever had prevailed ii
the Spanilh veflels ; in consequence ol
which they returned to Cadiz; and with
out their co-operation the Engljfh d'd noi
choose to ait. 7ne English had prediCfec
the molt complete fuccefsfrom this expe
dition, forgetting the old adage, " thai
man prtpojes, and God dilpo/es."—Oui
readers may depend that the affairs ol
France are in a prosperous situation.
The general embargo laid upon Ameri
can veflels in several French ports, has ra
ther an alarming appearance. It is fin
(erely helped the Republic meditates no
holtile measures agaiiitt these Hates, espe
cially as the hearts of the people, and their
hands, if neceflary, are with them and their
cause.
When the lad veflels left Europe, an at
tack on Dunkirk was an event that it wa;
certain would take place in a few days, by
the Britilh land forces under the Duke of
York, and a part of the combined forces-
A ("mail Britilh marine force was to co
operate with them. Dunkirk (in Kng/i/l.
papers) is said to be weakly fortified, and
in 110 condition to refiit the form'Jahie
force of the allies.
In our Saturday's paper, (October sth;
under the Frederick Town head, it is
mentioned, that the trial of Ensign John
Morgan was going 011 at head -quarters.
A letter from thence, dated the i6tliot
Augult, ftys, that the proceedings had
closed that day, and it was expected the
court would decide thereon the next day.
From the Boston Mercury of October 8.
Thefentiments contained in the following
extract of a letter from citizen Genet, to
the Vice-Coirful ol Bolton, upon the fub
jeftofhis being arretted, by the Federal
government, 'breathe the purest principles
of RepublicaTiifin, fbpportid by a tirm re
liance upon good laws, & a good govern
ment.
Perlift i:i your proreltaaon against
whatever might, in the lealk degree, affect
the rights of the French nation, and the
character with which yoti are inverted ;
afterwards, give yourfelf up wholly and
without relet ve to the moral force of the
judicial power of the United States ; and
confine yourfelf to prcfenting tothat autho
rity, which is independent of the execu
tive power and its decisions, in one hand,
our treaties of commerce and alliance,
which should be lor the in laws inoft sacred 3
in the other the hiltory of the immortal
revolution of America. The latter ought
10 be for jult and grateful men, the only
commentary 011 our National compact.—
If you are absolved, more than ever b'efs
and adore thufe free governments, where
man is ever sheltered from the fatal strokes
ot despotism, lo long as his conduct is julti
tiable, in the eye of the Jaw. If you are
found guilty, leave to the lovereign people
ot £ ranee and America to decide, through
tile organ oft Heir representatives, whether
our bands of union are to be llrengthentd
or wholly broken, at a time when all the
courts have ftvoru the ruin of thole repub
lics, which a. e founded upon the rights
of man ; ac a time when their perfidious
policy has directed all its efforts to a diftini
-011 among them, that they may afterwards
with fonie fafetjr operate their etfeftuai
deltruftion."
I'he Britilh, to palliate their disgrace in
the affair between the Ambuscade anil Bo
lton lrigates, are publishing various ac
counts of the action in Nova Scotia and
Newfoundland newspapers : as ufual,thefe
accounts are all in favour of tliemfelves
& their prowels, & decrying the French.
One account mentions, that the sole rea
ou of the Bolton's retreating was a fight of
the French fleet, coming from the Chefa
'eke. But it can can be proved beyond
contradiction, that at the close of the en
gagement, the headinoft (hip of the French
feet inult have been at leatt 30 leagwes dif
:ant Ttrrtr (fays Sterne) canmagni
cy Jiicki andfiraws into tnajis andbowjprits.
General Valence (fays a London paper)
las embarked for America. In a private
letter ot that general's, he fays, "lam
law going to America, and I hope to find
11 that happy country, that fafety and pro
eftion, which the Englilh, under the in
iuence of an ambitious minister, have de
lied me."
Extract of a letter from fort IVajhington,
dated dttgujl 26, 1793.
" The army has 110 c yet moved, but ge
neral Wayne is indefatigable in every ne
tefiary preparation. Every thing m3y be ex
acted from him which prudence, courage
'ltd discipline can produce, so far as he is
icquainted with his enemy. Our numbers
ire fufficient; and no one thing is wanting
n the arrangements. Besides the regular
troops, one thousand volunteers under gen.
kott from Kentucky will march out with
is, as a dirtinft army, and these being all
counted, are thought of themselves to be
tqual to all the Indians who will make
lead against us. It is said we fh&ll march
kvichin twenty four hours after an expref:
"rives from the commiflioners, unless they
idvife to the contrary. We (hall proceed
jn gen. St. Clair's old road as far as fori
fetferfon, because we have ports built there
tin at every twenty odd miles, and a good
road for artillery and waggons is already
tut, but from thence we (hall march norti
raftwardly inlfead of north weft as general
>t. Clair did, not knowing the true course
or distance, which are all now ascertained.
" This day the trial of ensign John Mor
gan ended—On his being asked what time
as necessary to his defence, he addreffeci
the court to the following purport; I be
ieve in these very words. •' Gentlemen,
I do not wilh to fay a word is my defence,
jut to fuismit the matter to you on evi
dence before you, well aflured of an ho
lourable acquital." He then withdrew,
ind it is expected the court will give ii
heir decision to morrow—Those w ho have
ittended the proceedings fay matters art
'ery clearly in the Ensign's favor, and thai
t only remaini to be known whether it i:
in ast of mutiny in an inferior officer, ti
vvrite and point out to the government 01
executive of the United States, the mifcon
tl uft and official misrepresentations of hi:
commanding general.
•' Unfortunately for General St. Clair,
he had been induced to give in an addition
al charge against Morgan, accusing him 01
faljekaod, unbecoming the character of a>,
officer and a gentleman, \n writing to the
Secretary at War, that Gen»ral Butler,
one of the best and bravest of naen was
killed in, or on, or during a charge en the
enemy, and that iie Was by his iide ; I fay
that t!i;s hasten To inconteftibly and hn
uorabiy proved by volunteer evidence, (for
it is laid Morgan difdaiued u leek any;
that the accafation is held in the titmoft
abhorrence. I will give yon the lubltance
ot one teltimopiy on this subject.
'' Serjeant Major M'Kee being f»vorn,
teltihjd, that on the of November,
r 79'< be followed Gen. Butler on a charge
on the Indians, made by Major Butler at
the head oi his battalion ; that in animat
ing the men to the charge, Gen. Butler was
(hot through the body, and immediately
fell from his horse ; that this deponent
was one of the lirft men who endeavored
to aliUl h.'iil ; that at the moment of Gen.
Butler s falling, he, the deponent saw Mr.
Morgan at his lide ; that whilst he (this
neponent)John Motherel, and others were
carrying Gen. Butler to the center of the
:amp, Mr. Morgan continued to encourage
-he troops on to the charge, which enabled
this deponent &c. to carry offthe General's
July, by thu. covering them.
" ift, Quef. by the court. Did you fee
Gen. Butler fall in a charge 011 the eneniv ?
"Anf. I did.
"2d, Quef. Did you fee Mr. Morgan hy
[lis fide ?
"Anf. I did. He was close to him with
his fvvord drawn, animating the men to the
charge, calling in a llrong voice, charge,
charge, my brave fellows, the day is onr
own."
P' S. 20th. When I wrote the forego
ing 1 expected ere this, to have been Me
to have told you the result of Morgan's
court martial—but after all the proceed
ings were closed in the manner above
mentioned, general St Clair, who has been
indefatigable in this business, induced the
court to open again their proceedings as he
had new evidence to off.-r. It seems that
he had failed in his proofs, even of Mr.
Morgan's having either written or publish
ed the letters lor which he was arretted,
and it was to ellablilh these, that he n«w
wiihed a delay ; for whether these letters
were true or i lit', he f*ys they were equal
ly mutiny. The proceedings are now clos
ed, and next Monday Air. Morgan wba
confefl'ed his having written the letters,is to
give in his jultifrcatiou of them, indifferent
(after having eltabli'hed the truth of every
allertion in Jiis letters) what the conse
quences may be. No news yet from the
Treaty."
Whoever takes a view of these States at
the present period, must be convinced that
a great political retorniation has within
these three or four years pal: been gradu
ally taking place. Ariltocratical innova
tions are on the decline, and their authors
and abettors grown out ol all confcquence
with the people. In a great degree, rhi3
happy change may be imputed to the exer
tions of free and patriotic prefles, operat
rating upon the good fenl'e of the great
Body of citizens of the United States, who,
m general are 100 enlightened to be lour
milled, without deeding the imposition
and resenting the insult. Go on, then ill
:his your ufetul line of duty, all lionelt and
benevolent writers, printers, and editors !
Though your labours may not always
■neet with their jull and deserved reward,
:ho' yeurfelves may be calumniated, your
■ iews misrepresented, and your principles
Jecried by the felfilh votaries or interest,
jr the Itcret or avowed enemies to the
-ights of 11 an, yet by a prudent pefrever
ince, defpiling their resentment and re
jardlefs oi their abilities, you will ulti
nately have the fatiifattion to fee tory
nachination and malice, ariltocratical fe
•lufion, court ambition, court myttery,
.ourt intrigue, and every other poisonous
xcrefcnce 0/ imported royalty, withering
nto an eternal non-existence before that
atal scythe, which tyranny and tyrants
lever could withllaud
A Free Press.
Anecdote. A Welch curate,in return
ng thanks on a Sunday for the fafe delivery
>t the squire's wife ; coming to the word
woman, he thought it too vulgar an ex
-ueflion to be applied in the present in
tance. He therefore read thu> in the fer
■[iee- "OLord, make this lady thartk
ul for the great deliverance thou hsft
>vrought within her 1 To which Taffy,
.he clerk, whined out in a piteous tone of
-eply—"And inercifu.ly hear her ladyjhif
when her ladylhip calleth upon thee !
failure of a ftipply of paper
Prevents us from publiftiing this day 0.11
more thana half fiieet.
METEOROLOGICAL OBt>EßPsfl~joNs.
October 1793.
D. b\ ntrJff'.ni. jWtuhfr
Tuesday, 8. 7 3c, 6 53 N. IFair.
2 30. 6 biS i)n. ( do.
Wcdntjdny, 9. 7 30. 5 53 . .V, 77i7.
_______ J- *50. 4 70 do. ds.
liwrjday, 10. 7 30. 2 4.9 t. rair.
2 30. 2 74 V.W.| do-
I'rtdaj, Jl. 7 30. o 51 '.v. ta:r.
3 *9- 8; 74 1 tlo■ do.
Saturday, JO, 7 29. b 5 l ' R ai „~
! .v.w. dt.
SHtd&y, 13, 71. 5j 49 v.w. 'Fair.
2 '9 f' 69 "do. da.
Wv*dt], 14. 1 30.05 52 s.W. 7aTn,~
1 30. o| 76 do. IF.ir,cnp'aid Parker. The mate of the flt'p
vlio/:' is EdjiVard loner, fjid lie Waj
iuarrkd is Philadelphia, where his wife
I'.O-.V . a 3 '
A" » T-'rk. O-i. 10. I-be'n >; reported
th ;• M;. Wiiitmone an officer of the A'.n
---b " ; > was taken by the B.vinn 'ri
r; - S.{ ,!y Hook, a few flays before
tS«,ajfion between thoftf frigates, w»U H»t
be co ilid -red bv the Brittlft as ail bffi'aP of
th -"R cof Krance, on c.-cctr.t of hii
htAiie been a» American Citizen, t>,;i
/•• m'fPat a P-W'-Wo have authority
11 ali'.ire the public, that until ifatitfaH-.ry
e ■ . . wiil be given mi this fur; :t,
N> KY.O itn of' any L 7 ■ i, > ,de
p.-.f. ;v. r ; ..'N tilt' .'-tips <>1 the K -pii'i'ic oi
Fran ■<• w .take p! ce—And that the con
fats of I"" French nation in the Unit -
are, in th-e mean time, hjftj piled by
the Jtiaili rf accordingly, n.>t to treat, :ie
cr <. to :ny fa-.h exchange.
/><!#»•<*. Loidmi Paper of jit'g ,r ' a.
A few d-y !i*i anion named Wade, a
bku l.fn;'' o Tuddert im dr*nk lome
\vt?r iViMij a well near hi-itoufe, which
occafi n d a si k>ef. at his 'I >'okeh for fc
v'«r»l d tv ; in order to relieve Which,he
ti >k f. n emetic tartar, and voided a
Y fx? ofmore than an inch long, which i
no v alii «, and lit is quite recovered from
his illness.
ExtraS of a letter from Ci:S*?i Moiflen
nier, Conf.il ,l ( the trenco R : * he, at
'JJalcimore, to Citizen enr', .votiiuei
Plenipotentiary, dated 6th 0.1. i-y
"The f.hooiier Stmt, Cutettst* from
Marfedles has lately captured an Irilh
b-is. wh'"b tud on board iß:> p dlen :ers.
who had fold themfc-Wes ai fl.».ves for the
term of 4, 5, and 6 years, in oiater to pay
their palfage.- —The niader cA the prize
cs • fed an inclinatio •, t:> fell them ; but
I t-Vj ■ ted the proposal with contempt, and
gjve them their liberty im nediatelv. My
coiclnet on this occasion was very pleating
t'> th- inhabitants, ef[»ecial>y to the Iri:b,
of™ n there are a great number, ami
who, would certainly have blamed me,
hid I acted otherv, ife. The paflenger*
ar- ex e diuw'.y grateful, and imp lore the
blelC l '-s of heaven for the French Repub
lic, and all her agents, who are attuated
by iimilar motives.!'
Ext rift o r a letter from cant. Miller, of
'tiie'-b irijue Prudence, dated Bourdeaux,
w'-'. are'no .V"fully loaded, and would
have failed in a few d*ys ; but yesterday
there was a:i embargo laid 0:1 all foreign
veflVls which had cargoes oji board. it is
supposed the realoo is, that a great many
of til" 1 were bou nd to Bremen, Holland,
and Vll n U-rs, to fun pi v the enemies of the
nation. Pour American captains have set
out for' Paris with » pet:ro:i to the N,:-
tiotial Convention, for liberty for thole
bontid to Amerii 1 and the V: -111 to
proceeds h will take 1 8 days for their re
turn."
Extra,of a letter from a gentleman jr
Boston, to his friend in Philadelphia, da
ted 25th September last.
>• This-.vi'.l he h :idr.l to yoti byc.tizcn
Roberr, a French Phvlician, and a gentle
man of merit. He had engaged and pam
half of his paflage for France, when he
learned the progress of the dieadiul co.ea.c
which rages in your city : without heht.a
tion h» has given up the money he had paid
to fly to th</abidance of his fellow crea
ture's I hope his exertions wi.lbe crown d
with fuccels. 1 begyou will introduce him
to fu lie of your friend i. He comes from
the Manillas in the East-Indies, where the
ivi'iealthinefs of the climate has ati'.rced
him the opportunity of heing well ic«Jua_int
cd with such On his paflage froir
thence-to his own country, he was taser
by the Britilb, aud lolt a h rndfome property
present my refpeiVs to your lam'iy
v.'illi to hear that none ot i.'iein have been
hurt by this disease."
The followin? plan of a decree, was pro
posed by garrere in the National ICon
vention 011 the id ot Auguti, and vva:
adopted.— , „
Article r. THE.National Convention
denounces the Britifti government to Eu
rope and the Englilh nation.
2. Every Frenchman that fha.t p.ace Ins
money in the F. lglilh lu'-u! * tiiail be dechu -
ed a traitor to his country.
Every Frenchman who has money in
the EngUth funds, or thole of any other
with whom France is at war, (nail be o
bliired to declare the fame.
All foreigners, (object' to the power c
now at war with Fren.e, particularly the
(hall be arrelt'-d,and Ealo put upon
♦heir pnperf l .
5. The barriers of Paris (hall be indant
ly (hnt.
6. Ad good citizens (had be held, in the
name of the country, tofearch for the fo
reigners who are concerned in the plot ce
nouticed. ~ . ... ,
7. Three millions (hall be at thedifpof
nl of the minilter at war, to facilitate the
march of the garrison ot Mentz to La
,y gndcf.
8. The m;ni(ler at war fliall fend to the
army on the coalt of Rochelle, all the com-
uflible Materials nsceifury tc* fat fire tci
the fortfef s and underwood ol La Vendue.
9 'riie women, the children, artd ol(l
•ue:i f ih. I be conducted to the interior
parts of the country.
10 Tile property of the rrhels be
confifcated lor the benefit of the republic.
ir. A camp lhill be founded without
delay between Paris and i.ie n jrtlic-rn
. I iil V' .
12. Ail the family of the Ctlpets Htni*
; u bi:. bed from the Freo It territory,
tbofe excepted who are 'indar the fworil
■j! ilaw, and the two o."Kp-i 'g' °- Lou
is Cape :no I:; til ri • ! iii. i'i e Temple.
i j j\l>rie Antoinette (hai! be delivered
iv.-c to til • I<i-i oltitio nary Tribunal,
'.a!J be immediately comiiiit dto the ;>r : -
on oftlv Conerergeria. Lonifa Eliz ab eth
all remain in the Temple till after tb:
.ifgincnt of Maria Antoinette.
iI. Ali the to:.ib; of the k'ngs which
re at : t. Dennis, and in fha departments.
hall br de irqyed.oii the icrh of August.
15. 'i'hi p\r. :u del i'.-'e iiiaii b- d.-patch
: I' bv extraordinary couriers to nil tile de
..i■ tn e.its.
C.xtr.Ul- of a letter fn ill a merchant in Li
verpool to his friend in Norfolk dated
July 28. 1:93.
•' Every iiii : is in nil unfest'ed flat--
tere, and a war b tv. - cn this country art:
\ aer a appears inevitable; indeed
nay i . v t: 11 ■: fiollilities have already com -
ne.'ctJ, a:, the Briti.lh c.itjz?H3 capture all
American velieist : or from 1 raece, tinlef.
o id-, d with tobacco or in biihalt. Shoulc
he A.i.eri aai be inclined to fehniit to trii
wiiuh I expect they, will not) lii ywili
bortly 11 b 'permitted to trade any when
>ut To England ; and 1 aui much afraic
11 re wi-i ie another rtrnggl. forlber;\
igiinfl tyranny, ihe Americans will have
.. 1. tiiw.i.-ri heads to cortend with:
i:id; i'i :i ■■ opinion, tiiey cannot too loo:'
nit thenii'elveb 1:1 a I'tate of defence ; and,
1! it always belt to nip every evil in the
jeginuing, I think it would be very pro
hi for 'th.ni to turn their attention t<
• 1 ethi: 1~ 1 ike their old afibciations, con
wt ni.ig i; ; 'lii! a: 11 rin,-. railing fneep, fl x,
>emp, ice. and immediately pass a r.on im
portation act, from this country on all Bri
ii!> goods from any port, which I expeci
,viil have a good elicit, as the trade in this
rotii'try is aj'nmit at a. Hand. and the ir.m'iu
'.-aires in great distress and at present on
y supported by tie American trade.
" About 10 days ■< go 1 was 111 the clot' l
narkct at Leed: where there were at leall
to 000 pi-c.'s 01 cioili expol-'d to (ale a:ic!
lot3o bought, and I ,\as allured that they
.ve.'c fold by a opie ill dill tf . and at very
•educed prices—ln i .inch', iter tiiey are
;.ju-illv bad, and many liioatatul fupport
■d by fubfcripiiun,' and i.i tie utmoCt dif
rel.'; yet the mm- ;ry a"e ..i» a : uated ant
"cem determined to i..volve this country it
till greater evils.'
" There are about 20 fail of American'
n tin kingdom 6ro>igni in ■■ P* ize -. Ihe
American brig Hope, from Charlellon t (
Bourdeanx loaded v.itb cofiee, iugar. ,-.m
tobacco, was captured by the Royal A m:
„t this port, ii -ill' it in ii re yei' .rilay
r: 1 cap: ■'■! was de:a.i .c! 0:1 t.- -1 d t!3■
Anne, and the crew, as soon as they arriv
ed nere, sent to j id. Ihe mate et an A
mericati brig that has been brought in her<
lias been bribed to f. ear that her cargo 1
French property, andtiie bribery bt
proved—from 500 to icoo guineas is fre
quei.tly otfei'ca :o captams ..i-■ I lljatesti
swear agalnlt i.ieir o«* n vellels.
The snow F.'riza, Caldwell, is arrived a
New-York from Havre de ptace, f'oij
whence ihe lailed Angull. 13 ■ BytheFlizt
Pari accounts w.: :1 <: nvtd to the 71
of Align (I- "ii is discovered by these ac
coUnt«,tbat neither the late queen,nor Cuf
tine, had be ny nirbitineC, as was laid 11:1
rler London head of Aug. 12 —we doliotniii
by tliem, that Paris i., otli H'wife than trail•
• nil, thongli, as might be e:tpeeled, anxi
ous, and diligently pnrfiiing niealures 01
rcfiftcmcs against their-hoftt of foes, The>
Hill hope for a firm confederation uncle:
the new Conlt'tution— and believe, thai
lad it not been for Brit!jhgolJ. tiiey fiioulc!
.•veil now have erijuved that much wibiec
fur coalition, wlncii would prove a terrot
to the combined despots. No.great move
ments have taken place, but a grand camp
jf defence, on the road to Valenciennes,
!ias been decreed, a liong several othei
mportant objects. '*
The republic ol France contains 011s
nindred and eleven fortified towns, whirl
liippoling one fhouid be tak-neverymontn
t would be ten years before the whoa
:ould be taken.
The cities of Lisle, Rochelie, Havre dt
Grace, Elkueuf, and othei pi.'e , have flit
lifted to the Convention their acceptanct
>f the Constitution. '1 he adtjiiuiftrator
if the diftria of Kochelle, who joinedtln
len artment league, have afcr be J their de
■citioii to athoi'ilamlfalfe and incendiary re
n;rcs, and to the iniinuationsoi Duchaflot
member of the National Convention.-
Vhey have fa'orn to pref#rve their aiiegi
nice to the Republic. .
The inhabitants ®f New Proridenrr liavt
received intelligence from the Britifli mi
nuter, tbat-the Krencli fleet at Ne-.v-York
were preparinn for an exped tion fiippofro
again ft that "place; is confeijaence ol
which t; -have laid an embargo en
t neii* privateers and wer?-repairing their
ttortificatiutis, when the lafl accounts came
. w -v.
V/c Iparn that, a few <f*y" a fire
broke '>ut iit LaiumgHurgh, fupp.ofed to be
set ott lh e by-a wicked \\ and burnt
ovtnv'l fiovKVs and stores, to the very
damage of several individuals ill that
taw 11.
"\V.e are informed that the Custom-House
ft thi>t':!y is afout to be removed to Chef
k r._
BtHo-i Oft. 8. We hear that the Britilli
niniftry hm-e declared, that ihou'd Ameri
cans continue :o p *rmit the French tb bring
>ri/.es into their po.ts. taat they will im
mediately give orders for the captures oi
,-vs'i' and An -rican veliels which may
he found " ' tb-• i tgh Teas.
'* The Executive power of the United
States ha. prohibit d the Corfu's from con
demning p. ir.es. That power did not ap
var t«» li.cm clearly cxprtiTrd in the trea
ties between IVance aitd America. Lan
old a uegociat ion'is on toot to adjull tlioit
matters. " The riefult of this prohibition i
t tie editors itinft take upon themfelvc.
the'trianagenienf.pf their prizes, and the
'dei which ;:f far as it refpefts the cargoes.
i'ifl be at>emied with no difficulty. Brl
who would purchase the yefl'els, wili
lot % .!'.V .take litem without a previotr
:m:d.-nirs' , nn."
, The health tomfftliwe of New-Yofk
; pi; i a f-tiirion, prohibiting ail
.iry fcbods, beds, bedding, cloathing, &.c.
jac'hrd i'| in Philadelphia, being brought
uto that ity, nnlef. previonfly expolcd to
!;e o.vm, air i:i fame well ventilated place
for at k ast ~'J bout s; and undergoing fe
deral < titer monies of purification.
M D r tl, the noted pirate of New-
I'rovidence, is appreftentkd there; and is
:o teke hU.trijj. for piracy ; an action be
h.g t on.u,.•need by the king's attorney a
j .it it him, at rhe ffllt of.capt. Shillab.er,
if Salem, in Mjflaclnifttts, '• for robbing
iiim e t the If g'l leas."
From French" papers we learn, that the
ictounr of the muiortuues at (.:ipe Iran
ttoi , reached Paris on the loth of August.
ritege rrnlewth ipf.an'.lybeaten,thetock
fin founded ; and the fettions colleftivcly
iem.mded of the legifkiture, 41 thai, me i
'ures might be entered into t<s fend relief
:o the colony."
Some accounts from Europe Cry, thai
the king of Pruilia Ins withdrawn Jiis
troops from the French frontiers.
All. or mofl, of the papers paint
the French Republic as upon the brink ot
stJ abyfi. If might to U rsmembsrei, that
Itch pitiurts art the vjerk cf tho/e why tfri
■ntereJU-A i . l!it: owr throw <>f t'i ■ Republic,
tudwijii'the re/!"ration us the old tyranni
:al government.
The proportion of deaths of males in this
:'ny, for. t.vo months pifl, to females, is,
;■ b ; mt 3 men Jo I woman. The deaths of
p;rfoHt far advanced hi life, and ot child
ren under seven years of age (the age ot
innocence) are very f«w indeed, when com
pared with those of pcrfotis in the prime
Mid vigour of life.
We hear fro m Bofhin, that Gov. Han
c-i cKdi d on the'bth of October : His
death was on'expeiled, altho' he had. been
ind f; ifed for lotiie titve.
It i 3 remarsable that the neighbouring
cities, -andevtn the country wiihiit 3 or 4
mires (if tins city erjoys a remarkable fit tire
of health.
On tile 12th instant the Committee
nf health i.i orlc reported, that
"they knew of no iniance ot any person
infp.-t'ed with the cHforder prevailing in
Philadelphia."
Anted — Ah, honey ! (I'tidan Irifhirian
to his trieml one dt,y) pray can you lend
nie tea-pence?— '* iSo, indeed I can 1, (re
ilied Paddy) for I have no more nor four
pence." "Well give roe that, (returned
the Other) and tneii you'll owe ine lix
pence.
from the Greek o/BiON.
IF Cod, orVuie, to man would give
In two fucccifire ftatvs'to live ;
t'he firil. ill-pain and foi row pas ,'d
In ease, content, and bliss the last, _
I tht a v.'tiuld rack my a •••ci-.n- brain
With study, how that state to gain,
No tail; tot> hard too 110 road
Tiiat led to that serene abode—
Butlince to all impartial heaven
One fleeting life hat only given,
Twere madHefs, sure, titat time to waste
Iti learci: of joys I ne'er can tafle 5
What hope c.lll bloom o.i tile's
W hen each delight is pall'd by age 1
[The point in wh-h this ancient Pagan
jhdofopiier expressly dtfavows his belief,
t(till!tlntes a leading article in the treed
if every Chrifti .11. How inconlillently do
hey ail then, when prof inn" to believe
what thatphilofopher dilbelieved.they avoid
.Mirfiiing ' >e course winch he would have
>urfued, h id he been a C.hriftian.J
. ■ i...1 rir-TTT— -T'*- 1 —
From the Baltimore F.vening PoO.
T 0 the Editor of the Baltimose Evem
ing Post.
Sir.
SINCE ray return from "Norfolk I have
learned with no final! unealincfs, that tin
" F.xtraft of a letteriVom ti gentleman tra
velling to the fouthsyard,". which has been
f ptiSlifhcd i:i on? cf PJjilndelphic p^perSj
I]cJ thence copied into the Baltimore kven
' i;ig Post of the 26th lilt. has been generally
i ascribed tome. I therefore think it incum
ber, t on mc, in the mo.ft politive and ex
■ 1 eft manner, to affiire the public, that I
neither wrote, dilated, nor publifned a
n ;!e line of it.
'i'he similarity of some of the cirenm
ftannces mentioned in the Extrait, tothofe
which occurred on niv arrival at Murray's
tavern, the place v here the guard wa«
placed, renders it necefi'ary to enter into
lome detail on the subject.
In writing to my family after my arrival
at Gray's gardens, I informed them- that
I had been flopped with tjje whole of the
paflengers, twelve in number, about two
miles from Baltimore: that we Were dm en
out of the tavern ; into which, during the
absence of Murray, we had entered ; that
one of the guard had threatened to fire
at me three times for walking within his
lire, although I was uninformed of the
e-tent of it: And, from the darkness of
the night, it was hardly pollible to distin
guish it, even if he had eonde/cended to
point it out, which he negleftcd to do:
that for the fame offeucf lie had flruck an
elderly Frenchman on the cheek with his
bayonet ; that we flcpt or dosed in the
stage for three or four hours; that then
finding ourselves cold and uncomfortable
we kindled a fire in the wood?, and slept
before it, some on trunks, and others on
thegrafs; that at 8 o'clock next morning
when the landlord was at breakfaft, we i~< n:
to him for some victuals, which he very hu
manely refufed to give us; that about
ten, or half after ten, he relented, and
Tent to inform u-\ we might baie some
bread, cheese, cyder, and wine; that t. e
accepted the offer ; rti.it we were detained
. i this manner (a lady, the wife ot a French
captain, in the comp ny.) without any
(helter but. the stage and the woods, from
8 o'clock Tuefdav«night, until Wednesday
afternoon ; and that I then remained at
Grav's 't:l! tlxe Alexandria stage set off.
All this 1 wrote—and this only.—And I
challenge any man to disprove a lingl? cir
:umttance of it. M. Tiebout, cominand< r
;il the French vcflel, now lying at Fell's
Point, one of the passengers, can, and, if
applied to. w ill confirm every article of
st. If it'be criminal to write the tiuth,
f acknowledge inyfelf a criminal.
1 pnrpofely Wave, as foreign to my pre
ent pnrpofe, every enquiry, whether all
:he precautions Eeceflary for the preferva
ioil of Baltimore, are not compatible witll
"ome degree of attention to the ease and
•o'lvenicnee of travellers; whether tents
>r temporary liied= ought not to beerefted j
ivhether paflengers Hopped on their jotir
ley, ought not to be secure of being able,
when iu nfeceility, to purchase provisions;
,vSiether meafnres of wl ich the legality is
■ nteli'dly t)!(" ! 'ioii:ih!ie, and whii.li no
ting but the paramount law of felf pre
ervatibn could jullify, ought not to lie
carried into effect, with_the u tin oft lenity.
1 hefe, and a variety of other enquiries,
ivhich arise from, and are int li-.ately c,on
iiefted with a difcuflion of this ftil-j-.o , I
Lave to abler pens to investigate.
To return to the Jpltrii its ex!raft of" a
letter. At my return home, I may perhaps
be able to trace it to its real author, and to
r.jeak positively on the subject. But for
the ptefent, I can on'y account for it, by
supposing thai the Editor of the Philadel
phia paper in which it marie its appearance,
heard perhaps at second, third, or fourth
hand, of the contents of my letter—and
th»u haflied up the garbled, ni'freprefent
etl account into " an extract oi a letter,
as an article of intelligence. This. I be
lieve, wiH b* ultimately found to be the
real Hate of the affair ; for J am f.itisfied
Co be branded as infamous, if thefabrita
ior, or publilher of the evlrai", can p.o
duce any person to whom I \yrote it, t-r
prove, or even render il probable, that it
was taken from any letter of mine.
A writer, who figus himfelf L 'Philo Ve
rltatis," has embraced this opportunity of
iiifplaying his l terary t.-.lentr, which he has
really done moit admirably. He severely .
renfures the Baltimore printer forthe " le
gations int/ci- of copying a pnra
graph' from a Philadelphia paper. He then
jeltows on me, the genteel epithets, " iitt*
t Hident and ignorant " From thefecharges,
I liiail not attempt to defend myfeif. '1 hi fe
who know me can judge how far I deserve
them. Tbofe who do not, might reftife
credit to my denial, were 1 disposed to de
cliiii" the co7np:im nts paid me.
The elegance of this writer, the excel
lence of his wit. and his humanity, are ve
ry itril. r.- ly displayed in the expreliions
'• Faddy at all e'er leaning tn one fide —
haltingforwrd and hrpvirg off," all alin
fions to my lainenePi, wl ch, if a crime, is
certainlv a very pardonable one—as it was
not committed with " malictproperJe.
I am, Sir,
Your obedient servant,
MATHEW CAREY.
Havre de Grace, Oct. 3, 1 79^.
P. S. I fbould not do jnftice, were I not
to declare that Serjeant Stiwr, who com
manded the part;. 011 guard, on Tuesday
night (17th xiit.) believed with the utmolt
kindntf:. Ir inanity, and politeness—as did
the who"e off tin* detachment, from capt.
Strieker': company, who were on duty oi»
Wednesday, after ten o'clock.Frem lie Alexandria Advertiser.
' & IHE present crisis is important to the
1 world in general. The flruggle of
expiring defpotifrn will eventually be pro
ductive of consequences with the fate
of millions yet unborn. Such as can view
the present fra with the eye of indifference
/null be calousto feeling and poffcfs a flo
ical insensibility. Patriotism cannot influ
ence their hearts. Let the idea of the
subjugation of France be once admitted,
r.nd th * mind of tk-'true Patriot, the friend
of mankind is filled with painful sensations
in contemplating tVe consequent misery,
f nding the extinction of that sacred fire
which now animates the breads of free
dom's sons in the eastern world. Religion,
if paR experience proves anything, would
become subservient to the bafefl purposes.
Calculated by its divine author, to pro
mote the happiness of mankind; an'
Fraught with sentiments declaratory of
on earth, and good will to men ; it
would be converted into rhe tool of def
potilm. and the chain of arbitrary power,
by the monitions conjunction of church
and Hate. The gueftion in despotic courts
is not what religion is acceptable to God ?
They enquire not whether the articlts of
their creed conefpond with divine revela
tion ? The aspiring despot, and the subtle
courtier form an eccleliallical eftablifhmetit
which moll effectually Lcures to them the
poffeilion of aflumed power, and the de
pendence of th .r slaves.
Civil liberty, which once Stimulated the
brave Americans to the noblefl acts of
heroism, would on!y be remembered as 2
pieafir.g dream by the mcutners furrotmd
■ing her sacred urn. The generous patriot
would lament in secret the misery of man,
condemned to tread the rugged paths of
life in chains. The parent, who once en
joyed the blefiings- of freedom, would
drop tiie sympathetic tear, while reflecting
on the m ferable fubjedlion to which his
children r>re born. The ndnftiioas hus
bandman, and the humble mechanic, find
ing no security in the poffefiion of their
well earned property, would relax in their
pursuits after honelt gain. Supinenefs
would pervade the wretched fuljeds of ty
rants, and the hand of industry would be
enfeebled. Taxation without representa
tion ; tri.da without juries, oppreflion with
out redress ; the unnatural degradation of
the multitude, an! unmerited exaltation
of court fy copharts and worlhippers in the
temple of monarchy, ;<re the prominent
features of the monger that strives to raise
its diminished head, and ur.i
vcrfal dominion over mankind. The en
lightened mind of man recoils at the bare
pr babiiiiy of the extinction of reason,
and the triumph of defpotifrn. Shrrl ty
rants again fatten on the foil manured with
flavcry, and watered with the tear of op
prrfifi 'i ? S'all ihe votaries of defpotifrn,
more impious than Moloch's worlhipper3,
ct the head of hcllile bauds, again desolate
the world, and deal misery and death with
unsparing hand among the innoccnt vict
ims of their rage ? Forbid it Heaven !
This is the period which decides the
important quellion, shall man be free ?
Such are the views which prsfent to the
mind of Americans in ant cipating the
• conquest of the patriotic French. Every
good citizen, however, deprecates the evil.
Tueyfeel interested in the eventful ftrug
gl ; while gratitude, duty, sentiment, the
common cause of liberty, with perfnafive
eloquence, demand the infant arm of Ame
rica to relieve a filler in distress. Interelt,
too, if teveriionary blessings are worth Se
curing, points out the propriety of render
ing eSedlive assistance to our injured ally,
if required. Despising the motives which
influence the friends of monarchy in Ame
rica to assume a dove-like appearance by
talking of:the blefiings of peace, and the
advantages of neutrality, they dare ttot
pnrchafe these at the expence of Ameri
can faith and republican virtue. When
these gentlemen become the advocates of
peace in Britain, and condemn the breach
of neutrality there, their sincerity will be
less doubted.
The hackneyed argument in favour of
a renunciation of our alliance with France,
arising from the condemnation and death
of Louis Capet, is unworthy a serious re
ply. If the exilling treaty had been en
tered into for the mutual guaranteeing
the heads of the higt contradling parties ;
if the extinction of privileged orders in
France, or the ereilion of arillocracy in
America bad been ftipulatcd as causes of
•disunion then the treaty would be equally
alFefked in its operation, by the decapita
tion of Louis in France, or the creation
of an ariftoeratic rule here. The execu
tive of the United States, and the French
miniilry, as the representatives of the king
their matter, in the formation of that treaty
mntnally engage, on the behalf of their
refpeftive nations, for the peiformance ol
articles ftiputated, equally advantageous to
the citizens of both countries with refpefl
to commerce and war. It refp'fted not
the internal government of France or A
merica ; and no relative change in the
conditutiou or policies of either can annul
those obligations or render the treaty inef
fe&ua!. While, therefore, tl e goo 1 faith
of France is experienced, Republican A
meiicai>s will rejoice in the alliance, and
render all the •iflitlance (he claims in the
hour of her didrtfs from the unsophisticat
ed conftrutlion of the bond of union.
The late decree of the National Conven
tion of France, announced to the public
by Mr. Secretary Jefferfon, which ope
rates so advantageously for the commercial
interest of the United States, and displays
"he of magnanimous France,
should raifea const ious blush on the checks
of tho e who have wounded the honour ol
America bv fophi tioating, and explaining
away the felf evidtnt meaning of words,
and the idea of trebles.
Tell it not in Britain, pisblilh it not if
the (Ireets of London, that the civil au
thority of America hath been exerted tc
punish as delinquents her citizens for en
gaging in the common cause of mankind
■under the banners of France in oppoling
her numerous foes, led the votaries of del
potifm tiiumph in the defection of the
leaders of our country, and rejoice in the
extitiiflion of that flame from whence the
lons of Gallia derived their sacred fire.
Citizen Patriots, can yoarefufe the tri
bute of gratitude due to the TWELVE
who, defpifingthe influence of a felf-confe
quentialexpounder of law, ftaodnokly-firm,
"and difappoinied the hopes of an aspiring
fa&ion ? And (hall the verdi6to of juries
be despised ? Shall the citizeni of Ameri
ca, the volunteers in the caide of man, be
flill pursued by niiniflerial vengeance:
Doth Balak, the prince of Moab, hope
by change of time and phce to curse the
people ? Disappointment and (lmme (hall
succeed the attempt, arid America fhaii
(till be free.
Alexandria, Srf t. 25, 1793.
PHILADELPHIA.
E:;lra3 of a teller from the rcyal'Jl army,
(in opposition to the National Convention)
dated. Angers, July 29.
" At length I have the pleasure of com
municating to you the most ]>!ea(ingevents.
We have fought several days fuccefively,
and the action of the 18th completed our
joy. and gra'itude towards the Supreme
Being. The christian and royal army has
entirely dellvoyed that of tie ithtijls.
They have had fix >thousand killed, nearly
the fame number wounded, and thre«thou
fand made prisoners. The remainder are
so dispersed, that they will not appear a
gain. All their artillery, ammunition wag
gons, baggage and provisions, are in our
pofleffion.
" God has blefied us with a complete
victory. His aid also manifefled itfelf
rowards 11s on the 24th instant. We bad
heard that the bridge of Ce, was guarded
by four thousand men : we in consequence
approached within a league of it 011 the
23d, and the next> day at three in the
morning, we ranged our small army in or
der of battle t» attack it at day-break.
" The enemy fuffered us to approach
within cannon (hot, and then discharged
twelve pieces at us.—We immediately cri
ed out, the fivord of God and Louis hisfol
lenver, and rushed like lions on the four
thousand men, put them all to the sword,
and took all their artillery. There, on the
bridge dyed with the blood of the enemies
of God, we made the air resound with the
praises of (be Lord, whose exterminating
angel undoubtedly marches before us.
" After this lalt viftary we entered An
gers, where the white flag is flying on all
fides, as well as in almost all the provin
ces of Anjou- We have just dispatched
a courier to order the colunjn of the royal
army, (lationed beyond the bridges oi
Nantes, to approach that city on the 4th
of AuguH, in order to give the alarm on
that fide, but to undertake nothing, until
! we (hall be ready ourfelvea to make the
attack on the other fide.
[Lor.dcn Papu;.~\
r?'ALL p?rfuns in arrears for this paper,
and polt matters and others who may have
received subscription. money on account of
the fame, are requested to make foeedy
remittances! To prevent the di.es fwel
ling to an improper amount, no p; pers will
be continued tofublcribers after the 26th oi
Oft. init. who dial) theii be indebted more
than lix months.—Punctuality of payment
in fubferibers, is the firli retjuifite in
undertakings of this nature, and wkl-'out
which it is iiapofSble that any publication,
depending merely 0:1 subscription, can lon,'
exist.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold by THOMAs Dobson, Wxl
liam YotwG, Robert Campbell .
"Weill's. Rice and Co. and John M '
Culloch. No. I."North Third-street,
A N EXAMINATION of the lute pro
ceedings in Congress refpeftUig the
official conduct of the Secretary of the
J'reafur.y; with Oblervations, <fcc. on the
application of Joans from Holland, negoti
ated under the ails of the 4th and 12th.of
Augult 1790. —The, price of the above
pamphlet is three fifteenths of a dollar, or
is 4d. 1-2. April 24. 2avv tf
%* The author reqnefts his readers to
correct the following ERRATA in the
pamphlet above mentioned Page 5.
iin 11—2 d. paragraph, ior Coa/itian rsad
Collision. Page 2.5. line 11—2 d. pirag.
inltead of Bank directors read "Stock
holders."
TO THE PUBLIC.
INHERE AS anattaclimeiitat the luit of Sam
uel ImUy and Nathaniel Jmlay, execuiu:
of the testament and last will of Peter (mlay, de
ceased, has i slued out of the Supreme Court ot
Judicature of the ft are of New. Jci j'ey, zgainft the
lands -of Garret Voorl)eis, late of the county o!
Middlesex, and /late afoiefaid, returnable to the
(iiit Tuesday in September, seventeen hundred
and ninety-two—-— Notice is hereby given to the
said Garret Voorheis, that unless he appear a«d
fir« special bail to the said action, judgment
will be cnteted againir him, by default, and the
lands so attached fold for the fatisfa&ion of such
of his creditors as fh*all appear to be juftiy entitled
to any demand thereon, and /hall apply for that
purpose, according tr) the form of the statute ip
such cafe made and provided.
By order of the Court,
April 17. law. jy HOWELL, Clk
EIGHT DOLLARS REWARD.
RAN AW AY on the 20th of June laA, from
the fubferiber living in Carc'ine county, in
v. >t«te of Maryland, near Choptink Brides, a
NEORO BOY, named j^onati>ae f abouc i£
ears of ag~—he is friie born, but a bound fervani
until 21 years of age—he is tolerably stout and
ftiait built, has 3 yellow ca.l in his countenance,
talkcth v/i;h his tongue againlt his teeth, ha;
Jarfc thick seer, his toes square to the ends—hi*
mother's nama is Lidye, who now lives in J mes
Neck in Delaware ftatc, where tJje boy has form
ed. some acquaintanceiince he run away, An\
person tak.ng him up. rnuft ast with the greareit
caution, or he will give them the Hip. Wboevei
takes up the said boy, and secures him so tha.
the owner may have him again, shall have the
above reward, paid by
WILLIAM JACKSON'
Sept. 4, 1793* 2avv6w
Seat of War.
FOR SALE,
AtM. Caaey's Store, 118, Mar
ket-street.
A SHEET MAP
Of the French, Anftrian and Dutch Ne
therlands,
In which the progress of the pre/ent War
mny be traced.
Price three eighths of a Dollar.
And a M AP of the
Three-Northern Diftrids of France, di
vided into Departments—Price
one fourth of a Dollar.
Maps of the United States :
ANY pubi/c-fpirited gentlemen, poll-lied with
materials for correcting and improving the
maps of the feyeral fotes, will lay M. Carry
under very particular obligations, by communi
cating them. He is in immediate want of some
for New-Jersey and Delaware; of which ftatcs,
he is no# preparing maps.
Guthrie's Geography:
THE subscription tor this work will be conti
nued open, at the present rate of twelve dollars,
till the day of November »rxt ; after which
it will be raised to fourteen dollar^.
August jo#
WANTED,
IN TWO OR THREE MONTHS,
AN APPRENTICE
TO A
REGULAR APOTHECART.
A Youth not less than fifteen or iixteen
years of age, with a fuitaßle education, and
good moral charaiter.—For further parti
cuiars enquire «f the Editor. sawtf
PRICE CURRENT.
Dollars Cents.
(100 Cents make 1 dollar.)
AhES, not per ton ' I2ed
pearl ditto iJ4d t» 140 c!
Bacon, flitches per ib ~ Sto 10c
——ihoultlers do . 8a
Beef, Boston per barrel 8d
Country do 7 d
Beer, Americanin bottles
including bottles per doz. id 74c
ditto per barrel (,A
Bees wax per lb 26c 28c
Brandy, Coniac per gal 90c hoc
—common do 80c to 850
Butter in kegs per lb 12c 15a
Cheese, Country per lb 9c 1
—— Engiilh , QC
Chocolate 18c 20c
Coals per buflsel 20c 22c
Coclfifh per cut 3d 53c
Coffee perlb 14c 18c
Copperas per cwt id 67c
Cordage, Americas per cwt 7d 67c 911
Cotton perlb 26c 40c
Flax per lb rjc 12c
F'laxfeed per bufli. 90c to 1 doL
Flour ftiperfine per barrel 6dj
common s d. 50c
Biir-middlingp, belt 4d. 50
Meal Indian per bbl. 2d 52c
I' ve, do 2d 40c
3in, Holland per cafe 4d 33c
— per gallon 80c 90c
Ciinfeng 20c 24c
Gunpowder, Fine glaze;! per qr c 41! 3c
3rain, ftarley per buihel id
Best i .elled per buflicl 2d 67c
Buck lie;: t per btiiliel 40c
Indian corn 55c to 60c
Jersey, do < 3t
C:ifs 4j c
> : je 60c
Wheat 107 c to 130
Hams perlb 9c to 12c
Hemp, imported per for? i 2 od i46d67c
American per ib 4c 3c
! /ides, raw perlb 9c tone
Hops 2 g c
Honey per gall. 60c
indigo, Carolina perlb id id»o=
French id 20c id 67c
Iron, Bar per ton s 84d
Callings per cwt 3d 50c
Nail-rods per ton ' nod 33c
P'S ' 24(1
Sheet *73d 33c
rons, fad per ton 133 d 33c
Lard hogs per Ib 9c joc
Leather, foal perlb 17c 20c
Myr'lewax perlb ' i 2 cc
Molalfes per gallon 60c
Mustard, flour, in bot. per doz, id 20c
——second quality, per doz. 87c
Nails, fed icd 12d and 20c! per lb. ioe
Oil, Linseed per gallon (6c
Olive g 7 .
per cafe 5 d s oe
Pepper per Ib 38c
Pimento ,g C
Pitch per bbl id 73c to 2d
Porter per calk 5 d 33c
London p._-r doz td foe
Amer. bot. inclu. ldßoc
Pork, Burlington, per bbl 14c!
Lower county I2d
——Carolina i o( [
Rice per cwt 3d
Rum, Antigna per gal id
Barbadoes g^c
Country, N. E. 62c
Jamaica id 16c
Saltpetre per cwt *4*l 33c
Salt, Alium, per bulh 33c
Cadiz 23c
Litbon 27c
Liverpool -^ c
Sna'ceroot perlb 20c 42c
SnufF, per doz. bot. 4d sd 60c
l'er 'b 33c 85 c
Soap, Brown perlb 6 C
White g c
Starch per Ib ■ y C
Sugar, Kavannah, white, per IV 17c 18c
Brown ]0 c 12c
Muscovado per cut 13d 15d
Lump perlb 3IC
Loaf, fmgle refined, 22c
double ditto 3^ c
Tallow, refined, per lb <j C
Tar, New-Jersey 24 gal.perbbl id
Carolina, 32 gal If ] j OC
Tea, Hyson perlb 93c id 28c
Souchong foe 93c
Bohea
Tobacco, James River, best 4 d 3:5 c
Inferior 3d 33*
4d 67c
Rappahannock 3d 33c
Coloured Maryland id 33c 8d
Kark 2 d 40c
Long-leaf 2d 40c
F.aftern-'hore «d 2d 83c
Carolina, new 2d 7c 3d
Oir! 3d 33c
Turpentine per bbl 2d 33c
Wine, Madeira, p. P. I7 6d 22Gd
Lilbon 1 sod 126 c}
TeneruTe per gal 63c
Sherry 90c to id 20c
PRINTED BY
CHILDS AND SWAINE,
AT TH*l* tTFICI N(». iio, HIGH-STiEITi
FIFTH - fTM'T,
PHILADELPHIA.