Nums. 3 2 of Vol. IL]
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
LONDON, Dec. 13,
This being the firft day of the meeting of
Parliament, his Majesty went to the House
of Lords, and being seated on the throne
delivered the following molt gracious
fpeecli.
My Lords cud Gentlemen,
Tl A VING, judged it necessary to embody
Ja part of the militia of this kingdom.
I have in pursuance of the proViftons of
the law, called you together within the
time limited for that piirpofe, and it is.
on every account, a great fatisfa&ion to
xnc to meet you in Parliament at tiiis :on
junftnre.
I (hould have been happy if I could have
announced t'.i you the secure and undif
turbi-d coiitiriuiTice of ail the Meffir.gi,
which my fubje£ts have derived from <i
state of tranquility ; but events have re
cently occurred which require our united
vigilance and exertion in order to pre
serve the advantages which we have
hitherto enjoyed.
The seditious praJlices wh'ch had been
in a great me ifure checked by your firm
and explicit declaration in the lalt fcllion.
and by the general concurrence of my peo
ple in the lame sentiments, have of late
been more openly renewed, and with in
creased activity. A spirit of tumult and
disorder (the natural confluences of
such practice ) has Ihewn itfelf in acts of
riot and infurreflion, which required the
interpolation of the military force i'l fnp
portofthe civil magiltrate. The indus
try employed to excite discontent on va
rious pretexts and in diiferent parts of
the kingdom, has appeared to proceed
from a aelig i to attempt the definition
of our happy conltitution, and the fubver
lion of all order and government; and
tilts deflgn .<a» evidently beflfl jMufued in
conne&ion and concert with persons in
foreign countries.
I have carefully observed a ftritt neutra
lity in the present war on the continent,
and have uniformly abstained from any
interference with refpeit to the internal
affairs of France : But it is impollible for
Ine to fee, without the most ierious un
eafmefs, the strong and increasing indica
tions which have appeared there of an in
tention to excite disturbances in other
countries, to disregard the rights of neu
tral nations, and to pursue views of con
quest and aggrandizement, as well as to
adopt toward my allies the States General
(who have observed the fame neutrality
with myfelf) measures which are rieicher
conformable to the law of nations, nor
to the politive stipulations of existing trea
ties. Under all these circumltances. I
have felt it my indifpenfible duty to have
recourse to those means of prevention and
internal defence with which I am entrust
ed by law ; and I have also thought it
right to take steps for making some aug
mentation of my naval and military
force, being persuaded that these exer
tions are neceifary in the present (late of
affairs, and are best calculated both to main
tain internal tranquility, and to render a
firm and temperate conduit effe&ual for
preserving the blessings of peace.
Nothing will be negle£ted on my part
that can contribute to that important ob
ject, conliftently with the security of my
kingdom, and with the faithful perform
ance of engagements which we are bound
equally by interelt and honor to fulfil.
Gentlemen of the House of Commons.
I have ordered the estimates for the en
fuingyear to be laid before you ; and I have
no doubt that you will be ready to make
a due provilion for the several branches
of the public service.
You will certainly join with me in la
tnenting any necefiity for extraordinary
i txpcnces, which may for a time prevent
the application of additional funis, be
yond those which are already annually
appropriated to the redu£tion of the pub
lic debt, or retard the relief which my
fubjech might have derived front a further
diminution of taxes : but lam confident
you will feel that those great ends will
ultimately be best promoted by such ex
ertions as are necefiary for our present
and future fafety and tranquility ; and it
is a great consolation to me to refiett,
that you will find ample resources for
effe£hi<illy defraying the expence of vigo
rous preparations, from the excess of
the afttml revenue beyond the ordinary
expenditure.
"By P. F R E N F. AU : Publijkcd Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
SATURDAY, February 16, 1793.
Aly Lords and Gentlemen,
I have great pleasure in acquainting
you, that the brilliant fucccifes of the
Britilh arms in India, under the able con
duce of the Marquis Cornwallis, have led
to the termination of the war, by anadvan
geous and honorable peace, the terms of
which are peculiarly fatisfaflory to me,
from their tendency to secure the fu'ure
tranquility of the Britilh dominions in that
part of the world.
Your attention will now naturally be
dire&ed to such measures for the fnturego
vernmerr of those valuable poffeflions, as
(hall appear, from experience and full con
lidera ion, Rioft likely to provide for their
internal prosperity, and to secure the im
portant advantages which may be derived
from thp ice to the commerce and reve
nue of this country.
I am persuaded it will be the object of
your immediate consideration, to adopt
"•ich measures as may be necessary under
Jie prefect, csrc,emlianees, for saiun'r
jbedience to the laws, and for reprefiing
.-■very at attempt to disturb the peace and
tranquility of thefekingdoms.
You will befenfible how much depends
in the result of your deliberations, and
S'our uniiorm coudnft is the best pledge
that nothing will be wanting on your part
which can contribute to the present secu
rity and permanent advantage of the
country
I retain a deep and unalterable sense of
the repeated proofs which I have received
Df your cordial and affectionate attach
ment to me; and I place an entire reliance
3ii the continuance of those sentiments,
is well as on your firm determination to
Jefend and maintain that constitution
which has so long protested the liberties
and promoted the happiness of every class
>f my subjects,
In endeavouring to preserve and trans
mit to poilerhy the inestimable blellirtg.
which, under the favor of providence,
you hive.y»urfelves experienced, you may
be affiireo of my zealous "ind cordi tl to
operation; and our joint efforts v> ill, I
Joubt not, be rendered tompleatly ef
fefhial, by the decided support of a free
ind loyal people.
The French National Convention on the
17th November, received accounts that
Gen. Montefquiou had made his efcspe on
tiorfeback from head quarters, on lie 13tl
111 the morning, and refuge in Ge
neva. -The syndics of that city, upon the
requilition of the French resident, made
search for him, but it was found he hac
quitted the city and embarked on thf
lake. Orders were ilfued to arrest: hin
wherever found.
M- de Pufy, one of the eight compani
ons of the Marquis de la Fayette, died ii
confinement in Wtfel prison. He is faic
to have died merely from the tedium o
his confinement, and his favov.ritc aniufe
ment of the pencil being denied him
M. de la Fayette is treated wth tin
greatest severity, and it is not improbable
will conclude his life in a similar manner
Despots know no meriy, and as " natur<
knows not them, neither do they know
nature."
The French Convention have pafied the
following important decree.
" The national convention declare, ir
the name of the French nation, that the)
will grant fraternity and assistance to al
those people who wish to procure liberty,
and they charge the executive power t<
fend orders to the generals to give afiifl
ance to such people, and to defend citi
zens who have fuffered or are now fuf
fering in the canfe of liberty.
We hear from Vienna that a body of
Turkish ir.furgents have taken the citadel
of Belgrade by florm.
All the exalted characters, members
of the Whig Club of England, will this
day attend the meeting at the London
Tavern, and thereby give the lie to the
reports, so industriously circulated, that
they are discordant and disunited.
The following report made tothe Com
mune, of a conversation which passed on
the nth of December between the pri
soners in the temple, the Royal family of
France, and a municipal officer, is parti
cularly interesting under the present cir
cumstances.
" Lcuis rose at seven in the morning ;
he had a long beard and did not dress.
At eight he heard the drum beat, and
asked what it was for ?
" The municipal officer answered, that
lie did not know.
" Louis—l am not accuftoincd to hear
it at thb hour ; it is not the Generale
they are.ibeating ; I hear the trampling of
korfes in the court.
" I aufwered, that I d'.d not know
Ythat it»meant.
" The family breakfafted together ; the
noise which continued, alarmed them.
Troops entered the firft court; Louis,
preserved his composure ; instead of giv
ing a lafi'on of Geography to his son, they
played together at Siam. The number of
lixteen .occurring in the course ol' the
gprne, the son said, This number mnft be
very unlucky then! Louis anfwered,lt
has evrt" been unlucky for me, my son.
" The game being finifhed, and the noise
increali ig, I approached and told him he
was to receive the visit of the
mayor,—Louis. Ah ! so much the better—
I rauft teil you before hand that he will
not fpe.ik to you in the presence of your
son, who will retire into his mother's
< hamhor. — Louis. Come my son, em
»s;o. e nbrace your mother well
lor inc. (These l.rft words were Uttered
in a liw voi<e.)
" The order being given to Clery
(the Valrt de Chambre) to retire, he
conducted the child to his mother.
" Louis. So I am going to fee the
Major! Is he big, tall, young, old.
how is he ? I said that I had a very im
perfect knowledge of him, but that I
;new he was a middle-aged man, lean,
and rather tall.—He then walked up and
[town the room about a quarter of an
hour. Louis. Do you know what he
[las to fay to me? He will inform you
nf that hiiufelf —He remained about a
quarter of an hou in his arm chair, and
was so thoughtful, that I p:iffed before
[li 111 without his perceiving me.—Louis.
This mayor makes one wait a long while
for him. The mayor arrived and spoke
lo him with dignity.
" In eroding the garden, he cart: a
ook up at the Tower ; his eye-lid seem
.'d tif be wet with a tear, or with a drop
of #.iin. When he came to the outer
court, the new cavalry of the Kcole
Militaire ft ruck him. I then went up into
the apartment of Antoinette; hie was
ineafy, as was also her liiter-in-law. Her
"on had told them that his papa had fcen
:he Mayor. V our husband is gone to the
Convention, be easy. If you had told us
that sooner, said flie, you would have
eased us, we were afflicted.
41 When Louis returned to the temple,
as soon as the Mayor was gone, he said,
do you think I fliall have Cour.fel ?—
If the Convention grants it—l mult look
at the constitution—He read—The law
grants it ine. May I fee my family? I
am going to consult the counsel.—Louis.
—Let some breakfaft be brought, I am
almost starving.—Shall I communicate
with my family ? No Sir, the Convention
will give their decilion. — Louis—not even
with my son ? I inform, you that you
will not communicate with your family,
of which your son is a part.
" Louis—Ah, my son—he is only seven
years old ! I (hall not be allowed then
to go to him, nor he to come tome!"
" He dined and supped at the fame
time. He eat (ix small cutlets and a bit
of fowl ;, he drank two glades of white
wine, and a small glass of Alicante wine,
and "went to bed.
" The Ladies were very unenfv ; they
aflced if Louis was returned—Antoinette
wanted to fee her hufband—(lie infilled
on herfon's feeing his father."
House of Commons, December 15.
A motion was brought forward by the
Mayor of London, seconded by Mr. Wal
lace, for an address to his Majesty, in
answer to hie speech. This motion
brought onadebate onthecaufes of the
alarming preparations, prevalent in the
kingdom, and of the unexpe&ed convo
cation of Parliament. On the part of
administration, the guarantee given by
Great Britain forthe preservation of the
privileges of the Dutch, which were in
fringed by the French opening theScheld
was given as the reason for the naval
preparations; and thedifcontent.and achial
attempts at insurrections in different part
of the kingdom ns the cause for calling out
the militia. Administration accused the
French of being concerned in producit g
these excefies by direct means, emifiaric
and seditious pamphlets, in order to sub
vert the constitution. Oppolition did
not conceive that the tumults at Dundee
Sheffield or Manchester were fufficiently
serious to call for putting the militia in
motion, or thst the causes of some of
[Total No. 136.]
those difiurbances were anywise of" a
political nature. They called for proofs
of these infurrettions, they could fee
nothing but loyalty and profperitr. The
guarantee of Great Britain to recure to
the Dutch the right of (lopping the nal
- cf the Sclield was ronfidered
as a breach of the law of nations, which
fhoirld by no means be supported by
force of arms.
Mr. Fox moved an amendment to the
address. \\ hich only secured 50 voters:
290 fnembers voted for the address.
On the 15th Mr. Fox the follow
ing motion, —" That an humble address
be prefentcd to his Majeily, that his
majefly will be graciojifly pleased to
!. r ive directions, that a minister may be
Pent to Paris to treat with those persons
who exercise provisionally the ftinftions
of executive government in Trance,
touching fiich points as may be in dif
cuflion between his majefly and his
apd the French nation." After much
iebnte on this motion, it was loft with
out a divilion.
By every account, the carnage, at thij
:fikinjj of Mons, was dreadful. Fve wit
lefl'es fay, that whole ranks cf them fell,
ike piles of cards. Many of the battalions
oft one half their number. The 104 th re
giment of the French, in particular, was
ilinoft ruined ; being mistaken in the fmokc
"or Audrians by a body of the National
•olunteers, they fired upon its rear, at the
arae time that it underwent a very heavy
ire from Aufirians in front, and was
harged bythe Huiiarsand dragoons on each
lank. The dead bodies on both fides a
nounted to about ten thousand.
On the i6tli of November, some French
hips of war entered the imperial port of
Dftend. The inhabitants displayed the ut
110ft joy on their arrival, and sent on board
leputations f>om the magistrates, &c. to
ifFer every afliftance in their power. Thus
lid this important city surrender to the
irmsofthe French without firing a gun,
:xcept by way offalute. Ofrend stands in
1 perteQ marsh. and was not much ti.ken
totice of till 1601, when it was defended
against all the power of Spain by the
I nclifh and Dutch ; the Spaniards losing
:0,000 men before the place. On this oc
:alion Isabella Eugenia, governante of the!
Netherlands, made a vow that (he would
not change her smock before Oftend sur
rendered; but before this happened, her
highnefles' fhift had quite loft its colour,
or rather changed to a faffron hue : howe
ver, the ladies of the court to keep her 111
rountenance, had theirs dyed, to be like
that of their mistress.
Mr. Frkneak,
Yoti are to republifh the in
clo ed piece ligue«l A Farmer, which
Will o lige several ol your fubferibers.
CUNDRY observations. which have ap
' peered in Mr. Fenno's paper, deserve
notice, as they tend to otir southern
brethren with an idea, that fa&ion and
party hive transfufed themselves from 'in
dividuals, into the northern Ihitej them
selves.
The southern members of Congress are
rallied,as having inftitutcd an enquiry into
the state of the public fluids for the pur
pose of exhibiting an afl'nmed integrity o
ver those of the north, who have not been,
as nlav be inferred from the paragraph?,
active in, or indeed approving of the mea
sure.
And the agricultural ir.tereft have their
attention very seriously called, to the
favour shewn them, "in not being called
on by the collector for the frtiits of their
labour."
In the firft paragraph, raillery isreforted.
to. for the pnrpofe of ftippreifing or dif
countenancuig an enquiry, made funda
mental by the constitution in the folIow : ng
clause : "No money shall be drawn from
the treasury, but in consequence of appro
priations made by law : and a regular (tate
ment and account of the receipts and ex
penditures of all public money, fliall be
published from time to time "
And in the second, a gross fraud is incul
cated for a truth. Both are calculated td
nurture faition and party.
It would be well for the landed and la
bouring people of America, to conlkler
what this party Is, ard what it ought to be.
With refpeit to what it is :
A monletl interest, amazed at the exteuß
and brilliancy of its acquisitions, so won
derful as toexcite appreheufions as to their
fafety. are governed by the following prin
ciples :ift. To encreafe the public c'cbt fcy every
artifice, fur the purpol'e of cnliliiiig
more troops, armed with money, which
is power.
2d. To discountenance enquiries intopub
iic funds, and ccconamy in their ma
nagement, as obltmiting their deligns.
3d. To itrengthen their party, by-creating
a northern and southern interest, oppo
sed to each other, between states, which
iuve, in lacl, a common interest.
■4ih. To effect a lileni, tho' fundamental
revolution, by transferring the national
influence over the legislature, to a ino
oiedintereft in the hands of a lew indi
viduals
sth. And finally, to erect a monarchy or
ariitocracy, to restrain the deceived ma
jority, fliyuid th< y ever recover their
underltandings.
With rtTpecl to \V-iat it ouglit to be :
The party ought to conlill of the moni
ed interest oniy, because their deligr.s and
ai'e clearly i.i opposition to the
landed and labouring interelts of all deno
minations. 'I hefe, in order to prefcrve
their liberties, ought,
lit. To oeconomife the public revenues.
2(1. To p. V the debt as l'alt as poliible.
3. To ui.tch over the public resources,
and apply them in the molt beneficial
mode.
This arrangement of parties is cunning
ly eluded by foltering i'eparate interells
bet / een the Hates; by persuading the la
boring dalles that the taxes favour them;
end, by a series of newspaper paragraphs
and correfpondeucies, written by fpeciila
tors, who have money and leisure for such
performances, and who had rather \inte
than work for a livelihood.
The mouied interest is a kind of flying
f.juadron,whofe object is to divide the great
m.ifs ot the people, by a geographical line,
and to cajole one divilion, that they ma;
Jive at free quarter on the labour of both.
Hence it will be well for the people to
colli ider,
ill. Whether an attempt to persuade
them, that they do not p y taxes, is not a
deluiion ? Are taxes any thing except la
bour ? If the merchant pays a tax 011 his
coat or mine, mult not labour ultimately
reimbnrfehim ? Is not this deluiion c!e
(igned to lull the agricultural and mechani
cal interest into (ecurity, and to blunt
their enquiries concerning the difpoiition
of the taxes ?
2d. Whether those who pay, or those
who receive, are molt likely to search in
to the difpoiition of public money? and
how far this principle will apply, respec
tively, to the conduct of those members of
Congress, who encourage or embarrass
such an e.iquiry ?
3d. Whether lifeil perplexities are not
calci la.-d to keep them in ignorance as to
the d.ijjolition of their money ? Whether
ignorance is not a good foil, in which to
plant despotism? And whether they have
jlad a plain and finiple statement of the
public funds, from the ertablilhment of
the government to this day ?
For my part, itfeems to me, that all the
landed and labouring classes of citizens, in
ail the dates have, one common interelt.
and that none, but wood n men, w ill
fuller themfelvcs to be played off,like pup
pets. by newspaper paragraphs, for the c
molument of fellows behind the curtain.
A FARMER.
Observations on the propriety of erecting
a new Bank, in which the state may bt
a large stockholder.
\_lnferted. by desire, from the American
Daily Advertiser of lafl Wednesday.]
'T'HE history of banking among us is of
modern date. The firlt mftitution
of that kind, viz. the bank of North Ame
rica, was introduced in troublesome times,
under the auspices of the then financier ;
it was organized upon principles different
from those in other countries, and by 110
means congenial to the government and
habits of our own country. However, at
that crilis tile public derived advantages
from it ; but the ruin which it occalioned
to numerous amiable families, was in my
opinion an evil, which did more than o
verbalance all the advantages which com
merce derived from it; indeed, while the
balance of trade was againlt us, it injured
commerce byincrealing that unfavourable
balance.
The eale with which the generous and
tinfufpetting friend can be prevailed upon
to (ign his name to a note, when he has not
the money to lend, or would not lerd it i(
lie had it, and the facility with which the
ralli and unexperienced trader can involve
both himfelf and his friends, are evils which
seem to be inseparable from banking, and
"which time and experience will never be
able wholly to prevent. Therefore, if the
queflion were on original ground, I
would heiitate about erecting a bank at
a!i.
But to return to the cafe as it stands at
present. Though the bank of North A
roerica has by the law of the state been de
prived of the claims of monopoly which
it boldly asserted, and though the durati
on thereof is limited ; yet the want of ro
tation in the directors, and several other
caufes,render itvery unfit for thejcominon
wealth to become a ftockiibUcr therein,
and we observe from the imtructions ot
the (lockholders, that they are so jar from
being clilpufid to surrender their charter
arid accept of a new one in order to ac
commodate the state, that they infill on ha
ving their charter extended years.
But to do justice to tins inftiftition, I
believe it is in good hands and for some
time past applied its operations to propel
purpol'es. Though it will not be denied
chat v ery improper and partial discount.
h u e formerly been granted, and that some
have carried on buGnrfs to a great exten
upon money detained from the bank foi
11.ore yean than the laws of the inOittui
on permitted weeks, while others have
had little mercy fliown them ; but thi
condnft 1 presume will not be'repeated.
But as the charter of the bank of Nortl
America is not fncli as to admit of the ft at:
with propriety and fafety becoming a stock
holder upon any terms which can be pro
posed nnder that charter ; neither is it
capital fuficiently large for tha commerci
al purpol'es of this city If a bank canno
discount with an equal hand on all gooc
paper, it is better to have none, fu if al
cannot be supplied, undue preferences wil
be given, and the institution will acquire
an improper influence, as it will poll'efs the
power of taking revenge, li discount
are unexpectedly flopped, orbecome irre
gular, the lairelt and inoft substantial tra
der may be ruined, becau.e the expecta
tions on which he made his arrangement;
'ire cut oft". Thus a b ink with an infuf
ficient capital, or a bank claiming a mono
poly. which may diltribnte its favours ca
pi icioufly, instead of a salutary accommo
dation to commerce, is a dangerous snare
The conduit of the bank of North Ame
rica some years ago, is a proof of the lail
obfervj ions, and I am ntifhtken if then
ire not circumstances to be found at pre
v\ hich give ample teltimfiny to thf
:ruthofthe milchiefs ariiingfrom aninfut
Scient capital.
But it will be objected that the bank oi
the United States now exiliing in this city
ins a capital fufneiently large for all tin
purposes of commerce. 11 is with reluc
tance I fay any thing about that instituti
on, but it is too w ell known that discount!
to the merchant or manufacturer have evei
been very sparingly procured at this bank,
and that very frequently they are not tc
be procured at all; that it "has hithertc
with refpe£t to all the purposes of ufeful
L.duflry proved a gilded snare-
This bank was iutiituted under the aus
pices of rlie present financier as a part oi
his fifcal system. He saw the public debi
of the .United States scattered through tht
Union, much of it in the hands of specula
tors, and unfunded ; he call it into new
and various forms, and by a variety ol
provi ions made a discrimination in its va
lue,&not only funded the interell that hac
been piid by many of the states under ar
apprehenlion that they were so far extin
guiihiug tlieir quota of the debt of the uni
on, but also placed the alTun,prion of tht
state debts to a much greater amount
than did then i ftually exist ; thus by ad
ding many millions to the aggregate deb
of the union, and throwing it into a vane
ty of forms, a vast field was opened forth<
progress of that spirit of speculation whicl
had already diverted much of the attentioi
and capital of the country from the pur
suits of a£tive and hc.nelt industry.
But the institution of the new bank gave
a much greater ftope to the operation o:
that spirit. With u hat avidity the oppor
tunity was improved is well remembered ;
for the history of (crip is too recent to be
forgotten. That the discounts of this banl
should be partially obtained for the pur
poses of Speculators was pretty natural,
and that they were so, was fufticientl)
evidenced by the bubbles of the lalt year.
That Congress fanftioneel the miniller";
plan. I admit, but that the afl'umption ci
the state debts, and incorporating of a
bank were at least doubtful upon the
ground of constitutional authority, cannot
well be denied.
Aiding the merchant who exports the
produce of the country, and the manufac
turer who improves it, is the great end oi
banking. Such iuftitiitions as neglect this,
or only make it a secondary object, ought
not to be depended on for that purpofc".
I am juftified by experience in fuppo
(ing that all the a£tual specie capital of the
Bank of the United States is little enough
for the support of the fpeculaticiisthat may
be made under the funding system, there
fore it cannot fnpply the demands of com
merce, nor will it greatly interfere with
the ufeful buiinefs of other banks ; the
bank of North America knows this by ex
perience, the dividends of that institution
have not been much, if at all, leiiened by
the operations of the new bank.
The directors of the banK of the United
States are chosen from all parts of the uni
on ; several from Boston, and some fFom
Charleston; there is but a proportion in
Philadelphia, and that proportion is elec
ted by the stockholders, the majority of
whom relide in other states, therefore a
great numberof the dire&ors arein a degree
ideal, and at any rate not so much interes
ted in the commerce or improvement oi
this (late, as to give fufficient confidence tc
the citizens.
That the merchants and manufacturers,
as well as the formers of this ft tte. ought
either to have fufficieat difcouuts on their
good paper at the bank ror tarrying on
their biiGnefs, or else th t there ftiou:d be
no banks at all, I think cannot be Hifputed.
The banking capital is always too small,
whilst obtaining a dnlount is esteemed a
favour, or the refilling thereof an injury ;
if this is true, surely the banking capital
for ufetul purposes in this city is inade
quate to the object.
The advantage to agriculture arising
from banks, is a ready supply of cash at all
times to piirchafe the produce of thecoun
try for exportation ; by this means the
merchant is enabled to pay the farmer im
mediately, to clcar his vellcl the sooner
out of the harbour ; and to command the
foreign market. When the bankfuddenly
flops difcouitting, the farmer is left in the
power of the few who happen to have mo
ney on hand. ThiJ was fiiificiently exem
plified in the fall of the price of flour ear
ly this winter, it was not the want ot fo
reign demand, but the want of money at
the banks which occasioned that lull of
tile market.
I have always had an aversion to govern
ment's engaging in any private commerci
al b'jfinefs, and forefecing that reviving
and funding the interest that the states
had discharged, and afiuming the state
debts, much of which was already extin
guished, would bring agrest and unexpec
ted amount of money back into the
hands of many of the state governments,
was onereafon of my earlyavcrfion to the
extent of thatfyftem. However, that ha
ving taken place, and Pennsylvania having
a very tonfiderablc Aim of money tor
whiih there is no immediate pu6lic use.it
is the Jury of the legislature to dispose
thereof in some such systematic manner a?
Will render it productive ; and in doing so
there are but few methods optional.
A bank and a loan-office are the only
plans fiiggefted ; andthefe plans do not
itand ill competition with eaih other; the y
perteftly coincide. I have not leifnre
here to explain, how a loan-office might
be ingrafted npon a bank. But that it
might be, there can be no doubt, and per
haps the 1110 ft advantageous plan oil which
one could poilibly be eftablifiied.
Much of our money is already deposited
in the bank, out cf which that inftittition
makes a profit, whilst the state itfelf de
rives no advantage from it, but v 's paying
intereftfor twenty thousand pounds to the
bank on the account cf the President's
house.l apprehend themcney for that house
was not a necefi'iry expenditure, and there
have been other bargains also by which
we loft as much as would have yone far
in improving the state, endowing semina
ries of learning, &c. and as long as the
public money is not put to some systematic
md productive life, the legislature will be
frequently surprised into job and bargains
until it will be all squandered away, and
then the people will be called onfordireft
taxes ; and wnat is worse, their confi
dence in a government which paid so lit
tle attention to their intercft, may be im
paired-
It is univerfdly allowed that banks are
a fourie of influence, and that their in
fluence is capable of affecting the operati
ons of government. That it has been
more than once exerted to influence elec
tions in this state is too notorious to be
denied.
The influence of banks chiefly arises
from their power of granting or withhold
ing difconnts, consequently, providing a
competent capital to afford discounts in
ill proper cases, will have a dirett ten
dency to annihilate that dangerous influ
ence. And in the present new state of
things, w lien government and
several of the state governments have in
troduced that fpeciesof governmental spe
culation which consists in banking, per
haps it may be necessary for the state of
Pennsylvania to counteract any undue in
fluence arising from their systems, by or
ganizing a state bank upon an improved
plan, v hich will be more immediately iri
terefted in theprofperity of the common
wealth.
A LAND CULTIVATOR.
For Gazette.
SENATE DOORS.
news-papers having difJofed the
-*■ resolution of the Senate, to persevere
in keeping their doors (hut, it is not impro
per to toulider how far this resolution com
ports with constitutional and democratical
principles.
It is observable that the previous propo
sition, in the nature of a preamble, (fating
principles and fa&s, as concurring to support
the conclusion, " That the doors ought to
be opened," are evaded by refortingto the
previous question ; but this evalion Concurs
with the vote given, to disclose an opinion
with regard to these propositions, in the
negative.
The tirft proposition thus negatived, is in
these words, " Resolved, that the Sinate
of the United States are individually re
fponlible for their conduct to their consti
tuents, who are intitled to such informa
tion as will eaable them to form ajuft ef
tiiruife thtreof." The v )-c of the Srrvte
discloses an opinion, that they arc oniy rc
fponfible " to God and their own confer
ences," as hath, it is (aid, been publicly
avowed.
Heme arises a political i(Tue, between
elected and electors, the decision ot*
\\ hieh will eftablilh aprecedenrcf unequal
led importance. And it may not be amis's
to hazard a tew desultory observations on
the subject, by way ot inducing abler pens
to take up its discussion.
Political writers aflbrt, «that niagifirates
are the ffrvants of the people," and the
general opinion of the people, hath flamped
the proposition, with tile verity of a politi
cal axiom. " Servant," clearly includes
:he idea of responsibility : not a shadow,
3ut a fubftancc; not in the aggregate but
ridividually. Otherwise, instead of con
forming to the conllitution of the people,
nagiftrates may conform the constitution
0 their on n tlefigns. Their power is un
iinited and uncontronled, if they are the
anly judges of its extent, and the only re
llrainers "f its excess : and when absolved
rom refponlibility, their judgment is the
Here result of their will and pleasure.
A right to change representatives and se
nators on a new election, is guaranteed to
:heele&ors by the conllitution. Is it a
right involvirg a remedy, or is it unfruit
iiil ? Had the uhole Senate been chosen*
by one body, a remedy againll oppressive
laws might have cxifted, by excluding
1 lie whole, by involving the innocent and
guilty in a common fate. Put this right
from the mode of election, can only be ex
erted over individuals, individually. Jour
nals, which may be altered, expunged and
made up, according to the will of a major
ity, will convey but little information as to
the condu6t of an individual. Journals
have neither aspect, action, or emotion.
They exclude a croud of intelligences cx
bited by real life. If a controversy ex
ists concerning an inconliderable private
right, you claim a trial on viva voce testi
mony } but when your liberties are at
stake, you are content with written certi
ficates, framed by the agjrt fling party. Of
what avail is the right of judging on every
Dleftion, v\ lien the means of judging right
ly, are', withheld ? The tree of refponfi
loility in allies branches,is thus completely
eradicated.
The right divine of kings was the doc
trine of several centuries, and we are sur
prized to find that its refutation required
the talents of a Sidney and a Locke. The
jure divino of the Senate will ere long ex
cite alimilar aftoniihment, tho' itmuftnow
be as feriouliy queftloned. Out of this di
vinity emanated the maxim, " that kings
can do no wrong;" nothing {hort of which,
is that now endeavoured to be interwoven
with our political web, " that the Senate
are not refpor.lible for any wrong they may
do." It M ould make the Senate a many
headed despot. No fi&ion oflaw is necef
laryfor its petpetnal exiltence. No death,
no minority, no lunacy, affords an interval
for checking unconstitutional designs, or
recovering violated rights. Tho'there be
a gradual rotation of men, the principles
are unchanged. A Handing army, making
an annual campaign, retains the spirit of
the corps, and continues veteran, tho' kept
up by a few occasional recruits. Neither
public influence or responsibility can pene
trate the walls of the Senate Chamber ; anrt
hence a change of men may never produce
a change of measures.
What is this but a virtual representation ?
a majority of that small body may eventu
ally be governed by personal interests, at
snmity with the public good. How is this
evil to be correcft d ? Kefpoiiiibility to the
inftruttious of condiments— to national in
fluence—to the public voice—and to pri
vate reputation, are all prostrated. The
evil.is secluded from the public eye, and no
remedy is left, but to reward or punifli the
Senate, as if it had but one neck. The
right of re-ele£tion becomes therefore a
ridiculous bauble, instead of ronftitutiug a
üblfantial check. For of what import is
information, carefully filtrated through the
journals of the Senate?
It is as unfriendly to liberty, to be re
jardiefs of the rixed and deliberate will of
the people, as it is ridiculous to be the
weathercock of every transient clamour.
Popular influence and liberty niuft be near
ly allied, if not inseparable. Is it not a
iiood definition of despotism, to fay, that
no popular influence operates upon the Go
vernment ?
The Emperor of Germany hath publish
ed an edict, prohibiting his people from
tiling an acquired talent— they are forbid
to read. Why ? Left they (hould under
fland. The Senate have prevented theuft?
even of natural organs. The people fliall
neither fee or hear- Why?
f oo much caution gives suspicion of a
treasure. What are the Senate guarding?
Is it a money thermometer, tiuftuating
with the ffate of stock ;, o,- is it the repo
sitory of public rights ? If the latter, why
are the proprietors of those rights shut out
from a knowledge of their deliberations {
ft is always good policy to yield to prin
ciple. Mystery in government is alarm
ing. Men fear what they do not fee—they
hate what they fear, and they deltroy what
they hate. Therefore when a governmen
is not founded on force, wisdom dictates 1 "
that i: ought to ate usds, Wltfe'the prop o? public opinion .is removed, the
government is undermined.
How ta i the support of public opinion
be expected, un'efs every source of infor
mation is opened to the community ; un
less their eyes and ears are fullered to con
vey them intelligence ? TransaCtions be
hind a veil, excite suspicion. ' ris true
that the community i> eagle eyed, and th.it
a Itroke upon the public ear, will vibrate
to the molt diltant parts. But this will
only enhance the merit of boldly meeting
and del ving a di(poli:ipn so inquisitive, in
stead of attempting to Ihrinkfrom an 111-
fpeftion, whkh will finally be iuevit ble.
Rrfpo ilibility in the members of Con
gress, ought toconftitute theground of the
discussion. Is it real or-nominal? Is it
productive or barren ? The right of one
branch to seclude thernfelves from the pub
lic view, is co-extensive with the right of
the other. Is refponlibility then, only a
rotation of the agents of mifchief, through
a darkened political hemisphere, pofl'elling
the liberty of appalling the community,
with its legislative thunder and lightning?
Philada. Keb. 14.
For lb: National Gazette.
THE appeal made to the public by the Se
cretary of the Treasury in his reraon
ftrance of February the 4th, againlt the re
solutions of Congress for information re
lative to the Hate of the funds, teems with
indications to attract the public attention.
Though it be overlooked that great de
lay was incurred in preparing and trans
mitting this performance to London, whillt
thsfeiliou, and the investigation poll
ing rapidly to an end ;
Though nothing is alked touching this
solicitude and anxiety, to keep up the price
of ltock and certificates in a foreign coun
try ;
Though the indelicacy of printing the
paper in hand-bills, and in circulating it
without the permillion of Congress, is ad
mitted to be no infringement of the con
stitution ;
Yet the spirit and flavour of the piece,
ought to receive that free inveitigation,
which it Solicits by its own example.
The politic:; of such of our representa
tives a , countenance the enquiry into the
ftateof the public refonrces, have been of
ten branded with the epithet of antifede
ral. And this appellation hath been libe
rally bellowed upon them by the fifcal
faction.
It is of importance to the community to
know, to whom this epithet in truth be
longs. The cry is no criterion by which
to judge. The perpetrator of a felony, is
usually more vociferousin his exclamation:
than his porfuers themselves.
The constitution enatts, " that a regular
ftateinent and account of the receipts ana
expenditures of all public money liia.ll be
publiflied from time to time." An account
of public monies and funds is here expli
citly directed by a conltitutional mandate.
Can it he imagined, that the only individu
al capable of complying with it, and actu
ally provided by law as the iuftrument lor
it, is the only individual entitled to an ab
solution from the injunction ?
The Secretary admits that this account
hath never been produced, but riierts,
" that until the lalt refolutiops, t:o call ha*
been made upon him, which rendered i:
proper to exhibit a general view ot the
public monies and funds." He is deaf to
the voice of the constitution, altho' in this
instance its lungs are exerted in the loudell
and mod articulate tone.
Such accounts were designed as a check,
and do certainly militate powerfully againlt
monarchy and aristocracy;
First, By counteracting corruption, and
money-influence ot every kind in the le
gislature.
Secondly, By producing oeconomy, les
sening taxes, and diminilhing the number
of tax-gatherers, whose interest generally
unites them with adminiltration.
Thirdly, By obviating the acquirement
of exorbitant wealth, from the temporary
use of public money.
Is the genius of the constitution monar
chical or republican? Who are nioftfede
ral—thofe who join their voice to the call
of the constitution, or those who are deaf
to this fundamental remonltrance ? — Let
the impartial judge. The apology of the
Secretary in its belt view, is an acknow
ledgement that he has been guilty of a fup
prelfion, in violation of the constitution.
But it 'S proper to enquire, whether this
fuppreflion has been accidental or fyltema
tic ?—lf the former, a plain, placid, intel
ligible statement of the public surds may
'be expected. But if a fyftein hath been
confli£ted by the enquiry, pallion, artifice,
perplexity, will be resorted to in its de
fence.
Let a sciolist in politics and human na
ture, reflect onthefollowing indications of
this letter, and doubt if he can, whose im
age and superscription it bears.
It felefts the individual member, who
moved for the enquiry into the itate of the
Treasury, as the object of news-paper an
imadversion; altho' the tacit breach of
the constitution by the Secretary, and the
reje£tion of a proposition of like import at
the preceding feflion, conspired in ltimula
ling him to do his duty.
It i- in the Itile of a remonstrance from
a conftitnent, who "' ac ntiefcfs iri the fuf
fiiiency of motives," but yet censures the
ad itfelf.
It censures the reasons leading to the re
iolutions ; it admits of the fufficiency of
tlie motives inducing the resolutions ; it
censures the resolutions as requiring an im
practicable compliance ; it still promises to
perform this impracticability ; and having
easily effected it, boasts ofafuccefs, which
" mud obviate every idea of a ballauce un
accounted for." What is this but one tij-
Jne of contradiction ?
It amuses people,by a laboured explanati
on of an ingenious contrivance, 6y which
two millions may be turned and turned,
until the result is—o.
It endeavours to change the object of
enquiry, by soliciting the public attention
into an examination of the accuracy of a
conjectural statement :
And it concludes with an injunction up
on the members of Congress to wait up
on his olHcers for information, left their
enquiries should turn out to be infignifi
cant, especially if founded upon a " ■vo
luntary djclojurt" of the secretary him-
The motives and effe£ts of these indi ca
tions,, deserve some portion of the public
attention.
What member of Congress will in future
move for a " flatement of the receipt-and
expenditures of public money" if he is to
be dragged into a news-paper controversy,
and exposed to the odium and abuse of the
paper faction, set 0:1 by the matter of the
pack ?
When Congress itfelf is accolted in a
majelteri il (tile of condefienlioi (if the
cxpreflion is allowable) does it not e
vince a reliance upon some hidden influ
ence? Especially i iould Congress (brink
from its own act, and surrender at difcre
tion one of its own members, as a holtage
for their future good behaviour.
Are not contradictious, and uninterest
ing tranfinutations of tifcal entries, in
dicative of a delign to deceive and mis
lead F
Is not the attempt to detach the pub
lic eye from its true object, suspicious ?
The lure often decoys a whole fiockof pi
geons from their fafe line of progress, into
the net of the merciless sportsman. And
is not an attempt to avoid public enqui
ries, by a reference of individual mem
bers to fifcal officers, designed to continue
the present darkness of the public mind,
as to the knowledge of public funds?
Fellow citizens.piece these circumltance
together, and extract the result for your
selves.
Democracy delights in public know
ledge—Simplicity ought to be the garb of
her fifcal arrangements —with inviolabili
ty Ihe reveres and fulfills the couftitution,
because it is the will of the people—She is
jealous of the independence of the legifla
turc, collectively and individually—She
abhors artifice, perplexity, arid intrigue—
with alacrity and perspicuity Hie gives an
account of her conduct—and she exhibits
public funds in dollars and cents for eve
ry passenger to view.
A contrary conduit cannot be the efFett
of accident ; it is the result of political
system, and ignorance itfelf, unblinded by
intereft,cannotfiad a difficulty in difcover
ingwhat that fyftemb.
FRANKLIN.
February^.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Saturday, Feb. 9.
Several petitions were read and referred;
and among these, one from the French in
habitants of Gallipolis. on the Ohio, re
citing a number of grievances they labour
under, and in particular a threat of ejeft
inent by another company, and praying to
be established in their lawful right to the
lands,&c. —referred to a fele£t committee.
A bill was then reported, and sent to the
Senate, relative to claims against the Uni
ted States, not barred by a£ts of limitation
—A mcll'tge was received from the Prefi
den , notifying the house that he had ligned
the bi)l for opening trade and interconrfe
with the Indian tribes. A memorial was
read from the Georgia line of officers of the
late army, for further compensation, &c.
and laid 011 the table—The report of a fe
lett committee on the petitions of the ma
nufacturers of cordage, twine, &c. in Pro
vidence R. I. and Philadelphia, was then
taken up in committee of the whole, and
after some debate, the report was difa
grced to ; which resolution was approved
by the house. A melfage was received from
Senate, that they are informed the Pre
lident has signed the bill for regulating fo
reign coins—A bill was brought in for elta
bliihing feesfor the transfer of public secu
rities inthetreafury department; read twice,
&: referred to a committee of thewhole on
next Tuesday.—The house was informed
by a meifage from the Senate, that the bill
for compensating Lewis Garanger, for fer
vices,&c. was disagreed to. The amend
ment of the Senate to the bill for Hcenfing,
enrolling,and recording velfels,were refer
red to a committee of three, who reported
their agreement; the bill as amended was
then read in the house, agreed to, and or
dered to be enrolled.
philadelp H I A.
February 16.
The General Alfembly of the ft ate of
New-York, after a full examination into
the conduct of the major part of the can
vafljHg committee, have determined, "that
the f.nd committee, in rejecting the votes
of Otfego, Tioga and Clinton counties,
have not been guilty of any mal or corrupt
conduit in the cxecut ion of the trust repo
sed in them by law—it is therefore refol
veri, as the sense of the house that the le
filature cannot annul or make void an\
of the determinations of the said commit
tee".
The French consul at Charleston [S.C-]
has notilied his wiih to the inhabitants ol
that state, that they will not afibrd any
a Alliance, in the way of commercial sup
plies, to the oppofers of the regenerated
liberties of France in Martinique and
Guadeloupe.
On the 2 [ft January a winter salmon
was dined on i:i Bolton by a number of
citizens of that capital. The New-Yorkers
will, therefore, not consider themselves
ilone in that unusual January regale.
The lat accounts from Guadaloupe
mention, that the Aristocrats in that illand
were completely difliearteneu by the late
news from France. Vtvst la Nation was
the almost univerf.il cry, and the onlv
Hug was the three coloured National. At
Maitjnico, however, they still fuppi rted
the-n/Ziite, or old despotic flag ofFraiue.
Extracts from th? Leyden Gazette (' eceiv
ed by the Portland Packet) to the 2; ill
of November.
Leyilen, Nov. 17.
Orders are received at Berlin from
Coble ice to put instantly in motion 12
jattaliio;is of infantry, 6 ditto of fufi
eers, io squadrons of regular cavalry, and
10 squadrons of Huflars. Thefeforces are
to be Rationed on the Rhine, in addition to
the i 0 infantry battallions that had previ
jully received limilar orders : the whole
ivcreto march the beginning of December.
On the 6th in'lant, the whole Austrian ar
my, under the duke of Saxe Tefchen and
general Clairfayt were stormed in their
sntrefichmetits before Mons. Brussels, the
capital of Brabant, was taken on the 1 ;th
of November by the French troops, under
Dumourier—vaft numbers of the defenders
were'killed, and not more than 30 011 the
!ide of the French. When the French en
tered the city, next day, the magistrates
thus addressed them : " With pleasure the
Brussels' municipality offer you the keys of
this city—All hearts are with yon ; receive
our liticerelt thanks for the bleflings you
ire bestow ing upon us—under the shield of
your powerful protection, receive the best
nterefts of this nation, and in particular
those of our municipality: May the law
reign under your fortunate auspices. and
may the felicity of the Belgic nation find a
new life from the fuccefsful enterprizes of
the immortal hero, whom victory and li
berty have brought to our gates 1"—To
this Dumourier replied ; "1 want 110 ce
remonious addrefles : take care of your
keys—take care of yourselves: Sutferyour
felves to be tyrannized over by no foreign
power—this is not the intention of your
jeing—unite with us in chacing away the
Germans ; we are your friends and bre
thren." There are indeed very few at
Brufleh, who wifli the reft oration of the
Austrian authority ; neither are there ma
ny who delire the French form : the far
greater part are for putting 011 the Braban
rine cockade, and declaring for the princi
ples of the former revolution ; [complete
independence] on the 6th, however, an
order was received to put on the three
coloured French cockade and no other :
in the evening Gen. Dumourier ordered
every citizen to lhut up his doors at 10
o'clock, and to place four candles at his
windows, that the street-patrols might fee
nil that patTed—On the 17th the ceremony
was performed of planting the tree of li
berty, and the red cap, when a cry was
heard from all quarters, " Down with the
States and iriftocracy I"—At this moment
the arms of the city of Brufiels and the
States of Brabant, that had been placed
over the Town-House, were torn to pieces
and abandoned to the fury of the people—
every other vestige of nobility being served
in like manner, each person retired to his
home. 011 the 18th, the People were
declared the fovcreign power, and 80 re
presentatives were chosen for the city of
Bruflels, from among the citizens, to man
age their internal concerns—Ou the 19th,
Dumourier addressed these representatives
in full convocation, as follows : " I have
put the Belgians in the way of being free—
I inuft now depart ill pursuit of tyrants, 1
till not a vestige of one of them remains in
these provinces." It is remarkable, that
notwithstanding the victories of the French,
the greater part of the Brabanters do not
relish the new mode of government intro
duced amongit them ; but rather hanker as
:cr their old constitution : many affbcia ■
tions tor this purpose werefet on foot, but
Gen. Dumourier forbade all assembling for
flich purposes, or on any pretence whate
ver, without permission of the representa
tives of the people ; but a protection has
been (ince found, declaring all reprelenta
tion to be illegal. Extract of a letter
from Brulfels, Nov. 11. " The bloody ac
tion of Mons, on November 6, which deci
ded the fate of our provinces, will always
be memorable for the obstinacy with which
the two armies'contended. Above all, the
French exhibited prodigies of valour, and
regained that reputation for bravery which
had been somewhat tarniflied in the firft
checks they met with in this campaign.
Having attacked the Auflrians, who were
entrenched in a molt advantageous por
tion, they filled the ditches which were in
front with their dead, and thus forced a
paflage to their efiehiy, who were obliged
to retire. At the attack of Mount Panifel
le they displayed an astonishing intrepidity,
in fultaining the fire of three batteries,
which at length they carried, sword in
hand. It is impoflible to eflimate precisely
tlie loss of both parties, altho' without
doubt, very considerable. For two or
three days after there palled through here a
number of carriages (more than too) load
ed with the \Vounded of the Aullrians.
There were also continually coming in
whole platoons of soldiers, flying without
their arms and half naked. Immediately
after their defeat, desertions took place to
an alarming degree, particularly among
the Germans. On the 7th the French en
tered Mons; and on the 9th, Tournay, and
a part of Flanders, which our troops had
wholly quitted. Our generals being com
pelled by the immense fuperio'rity of the
enemy to abandon their polition before
Mons, intended to fortify themselves upon
the heights of Caftiau, a league distant;
but the French having made arrangements
for attacking this port, general Beaulieu
retired to Soignies with 15CC0 men. Ac
present our :roops aVe polled at Tubife,4
leagues from Brussels, where they are busy
day and night, intrenching; we are e
ve y hour in expectation that the French
wili attack them a second time. The
French troops observe the molt rigorous
discipline wherever they come. Gen.
Dumourier has published a proclamation,
that whatever person, whether citizen or
soldier, lhall insult any one on account of
his party or {hall commit the lealt disor
der, lhall be inflantly hanged on the spot.
The cafe is not the fame in the interior of
the provinces. The Belgic inhabitants,
too much inclined to what is the disgrace
of all revolutions, to wit, plundering, had
no fooncr learnt that the French w ere vic
torious and had entered the country, than
they broke out in fevcral places. Infur
reftions of the people took place at Dirlfc
andAlolt, which is one cause of the pre
sent alarming emigration. The roads are
covered, night and day with horses, carri
ages, and people on foot, quitting their
into other countries. At An
twerp several waggons which were trauf
porting French emigrants into Holland,
have been cruelly robbed by the populace?
who not contented with carrying things to
this ihameful excess, insulted them also in
the bafelt ar.d mo(t cowardly manner."—
The taking of Mons by the French fecms:
to have been the ultimatum of discou
ragement to the emigrants. The go
vernment concealed the fatal news as
long as possible, but on its arriving, the
emigrants instantly packed up their mofh
valuable effects, and fled,fome toF.ngland,
and vail numbers to Holland : so great
were their numbers that neither boats,-
horses, or carriages could be found fuffici
ent to convey them, and even the govern
ment had much ado to get hfelf transpor
ted—as to Marflial Bender, however, he
was not much enctm.bered, having had
the forelight to fell his moveable effects by
beat of drum—The Auftrians, previous to
the attack upon Mons, had conltru'ted re
doubts 011 Mount Panifelle, Carrion, and
at Genappe, to cover the city; but the
French had before taken pofleflion of the
heights of Fromeries ; and the army un
der genera! Harville, from Maubeuge, had
joined the grand army, in front of Mons :
between 6 and 7 in the morning, Gen. Du
mourier ordered an attack upon all the'
enemies intrenchments. The tire was ter
rible on both fides, and during five hours it
continued without a minute's intermiflionj
The French soldiers were animated to a
degree of desperation, and fought enthu
fialtically for their idol, Liberty, eacoura
| ged by their genet-als, and above all, by
Dumourier, who flew from battery to
battery, and from rank to rank, Crying
out, '• Courage, my brave companions V
remember, it is for liberty you are con
tending !"—From that moment all sense
of danger was forgotten, and notwithllan
ding a molt obstinate reliftance, the two
redoubts, Carrion and Genappe, were car
ried, sword in hand, and wherever an e
iiemy was to be found, a molt horrid car
nage enfuecl : the number of killed 011 the
part of the enemy was confiderabie; and
prifonets upwards of 2co.
*»* TheLe'ter from Enlign John Mor
gan, dated Charlefloa, S. C. will be'
iul'erted in our next.PARIS, December 12.
The fallowing is an extract of the re
port of the Commune, concerning
transferring Louis Capet, to the Bar cf
the National Convemion.
" At one o'clock, the Mayor and Se
cretary went lip into the apartment of the
late King and said to him, " I am charged
to deckle to you, that the Convention
wait for you at their Bar, and t am ap
pointed to conduct you." The .Secretary
then read these words, " Decrce of the
National Convention, of the 6th of De
cember: Art. 5. Louis Cai-et shall be
brought to the bar of the National Con
vention on Tuesday the nth, to anfwei
the questions which fhali be put to him by
the Preiident." This being done, the
Mayor alked Louis if he would go down:
he appeared to hesitate a little, and said
" My name is not Louis Capet ; my an
ceftors bore that name, but I never was cal
led so; it is, however,like all the treatmenl
1 have experienced these four months pafl
by force. This morning my son has been
fepurated from me, it was an enjoyment o!
which they have deprived me. I have
been expecting you these two hours."
The Mayor, without returning any an
fwer, invided him again to go down, which
he determined at length to do. Being in
the carri ige, which was lined with thick
cushions in order to be musket proof, he
kept silence all the way, till the carriage
was (lopped by some mifunderflanding a
mong the guards who escorted him on the
Boulevards.
When he was near the gates of St. Mar
tin and St. Dennis, he asked if these two
triumphal arches would not be demohfhed:
He was answered that the gate of St. Den
nis being a master piece, would be preserved.
He arrived at the Convention at two
o'clock —He app-rared dieffed in a brown
great coat, and did not seem at all trou
bled. The Mayor and Procureur dc la
Commune were on each fide of him ; behind
him were Santerre, Berruyer, and other
officers. After his interrogatory he was
conduced into the Conference Hall, and
acc pted a bit of bread, obfirving that he
had not broken his fact. He afterwards
got up into the Mayor's carriage, and
spoke little on his return. There was a
very numerous armed force, but the con
course of people was not so great as might
have been expected — The greatelt or
der and silence reigned among the guards
and fpeftators.
He arrived at his apartment at half pad
fix. He repeatedly alked the Mayor, that
the Decree granting him a counfe', which
was refufed to nobody, might be speedily
communicated to him. It has since been
resolved in the Commune, that Louis
should have no further communication with
his family, and that his counsel should hold
their conference with him alone,and always
in the presence of the Municipal officers.
Louis has chosen for his counsel, Target,
and in his default Tronchet.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
TRIAL OF THE KING.
December ii.
The fitting commenced by reading the
Ast of accusation against Louis XVI.
which was presented by Barbaroux in name
of the Commission of twenty-one. It con
tained an enumeration of the principal
charges made against the unfortunate
Monarch ; and each charge was followed
by a lift of the pieces on which the proofs
are to be founded. When it was read,
several new charges were proposed by se
veral of the members, and some which ap
peared to have little weight, or to be ill
founded, were expunged.
The Convention were much surprised to
hear Marat become in some measure the
voluntary defender of Louis XVI. by re
questing that all those charges alluding to
crimes committed before his acceptance of
the Constitution, Ihould be omitted in the
ast of accusation. He spoke also of the
amnesty which following that acceptance,
but the Convention paid no attention to
his oblervations.
The Convention decreed that the ast of
accusation should serve as the ground of
those questions which were to be put to
Louis XVI. and that after each question
the Pre fluent should fa? to him What have
you to anfivcr ? The President was autho
rised also to propose such questions as might
arise from the King's anfwers,and to make
him fit down at the bar.
Barrere the President announced to the
Convention that Louis XVI . was at the
door, and requeued the Representatives of
the People to afTume a dignity worthy of
the grandeur of their functions. He re
minded them, tha: they formed a tribunal
on which the eyes of Europe w;re fixed,
and whose sentence would be judged by
poflerity. He forbade them to shew any
signs either of approbation or disapproba
tion, and desired tliem to remember that
coolncfs and iilent dignity with which they
received the King after his return from
Varennes.
At halt past two Santerre informed the
Convention that Louis was arrived, and
was waiting the orders of the AfLmbly.
The President gave t'ne order to intro
duce him. The moil profound silence
reigned in the Hall. Louis appeared at
the bar, attended by two Municipal officers.
When Louis appeared at the bar, the
Prcfident mentioned to him the decree by
which the Convention eftablifhcd a tribuna
to try him. Malhe, one of the Secreta
ries, read the ast of accusation, charge by
rharße, and at each the Prefi.ifent affcee!
Lou's what he had to fay in his own de
fence ? The unfortunate Monarch did not
ike Charles 1 of England refufe to acknow
edge the authority of the Convention ; he
ielivered no speech, and contented himfel
A'ith giving a/)fwers toeachquellion in afev
words. He asked for copies of the ast o
iccufation, of the pieces which arc to serve
is proofs, and of his own examination
ind requeued also that he might be allow
:d Counsel !
His answers were in general pertinenl
ind short, nor did he appear in the lead
;mbanafied. He replied with great rea
linefs, and at some quellions appeared i
ittle chagrined.
EXAMINATION OF LOUIS.
President. " Louis ! The French na
ion accuses you.—The national aflem
)ly decreed on the 3d of December thai
rou fliould be tried by them ; and cn tht
sth, that you should be brought to tht
iar, to hear the accusation read, and tc
jive your answers."
The President then read the articles o1
he ast, one by one, calling 11p m Loui:
o answer each of them separately.
Accusation. Louis, the French people
iccufe you of hairing plotted and formed i
nultitilde of conspiracies to establish ty
■anny in deflroying liberty. On the loth
3f June, 1789, you made an attack 01;
:he sovereignty of the nation, by fufpcr.d
ng their representatives, and by expelling
:hem with violence from the place of theii
meetings.
Answer. There existed then no law.
Acc. On the 23d. you surrounded the
representatives of jhe people with troop 6
you prefenteda declaration ordering then
to cease their meetings and leparatq.
Ihe fame answer as to the preceding
article.
Acc. You ordered an army to marcl
ag.iinll the citizens of Paris to shed theii
blood, and you did not dismiss that army
till the revolution had been effected.
Anf. I had at that time a right to or
der troops, to march according to my will
it never was my intention to cause the ef
fufion of blood.
Acc. You fuffered the national cockade
to be trampled under foot before your eyes
and the white cockade to be worn, YOl
conflantly rejected the constitution.
Anf. As to the decrees, I made the
observations I then thought I ought tc
make ; as to the cockade, the fact is
falfe.
Acc. You took an oath at the Federa
tion of the 14th of July, which you did
not keep : you feduccd Mirabe-au to cause
an infurreftion in the departments.
Anf. I do not remember all that passed
at that time, but I know that the whole
was prior to the acceptance of the consti
tution.
Acc. Ycu distributed money t6 the
Fauxbourg St. Antoine, that the people
might favour your escape.
Anf. This accusation is absurd. le
ver took a pleasure in giving money to
the people. There was nothing in my
conduct that had the appearance of a plot
for a counter revolution,
Acc. Was it not in consequence of the
fame project that you feigned an indisposi
tion to facilitate your retreat to St.
Cloud?
Anf. No.
Acc. You swore to maintain the ccn
ftitution ; and on the 21ft of June you at
tempted to escape with a falfe passport,
and ordered your lyiinifters to sign no a£t
of the legislature-
Anf. I do not remember what pafled at
that time ; but for my journey to Vaten
nes, I refer to the answers I made to the
deputies of ( the constituent aflembly, whe
accompanied me on my return.
Acc. You coalesced with La Fayette
you hired writers of journals, and ipen
considerable sums of money to overthrow
the constitution.
Anf. I reco'ileft writing one letter tc
Fayette, but have no knowledge of th<
reft.
Acc. You favoured the rebellion ai
Aries.
Anf. The ministers did all that, and thf
aflembly proposed minilters to me I knew
nothing of.
Acc. You made no attempt to ftiflt
:he plots of counter-revolution, which
were manifefted in several parts of the re
public.
Anf. I was not apprised of those things,
l-vvas informed of nothing; besides, ii
would require time for me to answer al
:hefe queltions.
Acc. You paid your ci (levant bod}
guards at Coblentz, and you sent confi
derable sums so Rochefort and to youi
brothers.
Anf. I ceased giving them any thing a!
soon as they pafled the Rhine.
Acc. You refufed your fan&ion to i
decree for forming a camp near Paris:
yon ordered them to be flopped in theii
march ; the army was not complete—yoi
ordered no recruiting.
Anf. I presented at the time the state
ments to the amenably: if threy were mifta
ken it is not my fault.
Acc. You threw confufion and difor
der in the army.
Anf. I cannot answer this accusation.
Acc. Why did you defer so long to in
form the legislative body that fifty thou
sand Prussians were marching againll
France ?
Anf. My diplomatic correfpondenci
was carried on by the minilters, therefon
it is not my fault.
Acc. You fuffered our navy to go to ru
in ; all the officers emigrated ; there, i
scarcely one left for the service.
Anf. I did not fend away jhofe officers
Acc. The state was torn by the faftiom
of the fanatic priests ; you shewed your
ftlf openly their protestor, and manifellec
a design of recovering your former power
Anf. I cannot answer that, ha\ing n<
knowledge of it.
Acc The legifl3tive aflembly paflVd :
decree against the fnftious priests, you fuf
pended its execution.
Anf. I had a right to do so.
Acc. There was in Paris clandefline as
fociations to operate a counter revolution
paid by the civil lift.
Anf. I have no knowledge of thef
fadts ; the projedt of a counter revolutiai
never entered my head.
Acc. Who were the members of th<
constituent aflembly you endeavored t<
corrupt ?
Anf. I never endeavored to corrup
any.
Acc. On the loth of August, you pas
fed in review the Swiss troops, at 5 o'clocl
in the morning, and on that day they firec
on the people.
Anf. The constituted authorities wer<
aflembled at the castle : I had demanded
a deputation to proceed with me to the
legislative aflembly : when I saw that the)
did not come, I repaired thither with al
my family.
Aoc. Why, some days before the 10th
of August, did you order all the posts ol
the Swiss guards at the Thuilleries to be
doubled ?
Anf. The castle was threatened ; as I
was one of the constituent authorities 1
had a right to defend myfelf.
The President then asked Louis, if he
had any thing further to fay.
Louis. T beg the aflembly to give me
communication of the ast of accusation :
I fhou'd desire to examine it minutely :
I should also wish to have a counsel.
Marat showed him all the papers one after
another : among the papers signed by his
own hand.he acknowledged but a very few.
The President asked him why he caused
a hole to be made in the wall of his apart
ment, and to be covercd over with an iron
door.
He answered, that he had no know
ledge of this.
The President told him, that the assem
bly permitted him to retire.
Louis, on retiring, f id,
to have a connfel.
The assembly then decri >
fire of Louis to have a couii -e
granted.
ME'TEOROIOGICJL OBSERf.-. . S.
February 1793-
D. H Bur. 'Tit . li'n. Itr4
tuefia y, 5. 7 29-95 3 6 '• ' J
-1 20* 9 44 do. 0.
Wednesday, 6. 7 7,9. 05 35 > w
z 29. 6 46 "j"- R"•
thurjday, 7. 7 29. c 36 »'" • y
-2 29. c 40 N. Ft'ir.
Friday, S. ; 3c. c 2ft L. t cvdy,
?. zg< 7 5 44 do. ! do.
Saturday, 9. 7 29. 7 42 W. ■ ' nvery
? 29. 8( 50 W. Fair.
Sunday, ic. 7 30. J W. j.-.-aJy
2 3©. 1 40 do, I F «ir.
Monday, 11. 7 30. 4 19 M. E.j aszsry,
2 30. 4 27 1 do. I - o«rtj7.
yz//? Publifoed,
JyWILUAM i'OUNG, Bookseller, No. ;
Second-street, the corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
n twy large Svo. vols, neatly bound, piicc lour
dollars,
ESSAYS
ON THE
NTELLECTU A L and ACTIVE
POWERS OF M A N.
By THOr/TAS REID, D. D. F. R. S.
Edinburgh, Profejjor of Moral Philo-
Jophy in the Uninerji'ty of Glafgoiv.
IT would be improper tor the publisher to men
tion anything, refpe£t:ng the literary talents
ir an author, lu generally known and efleemed
tfor aoes it appear necefl'ary to requelt attention,
:o peiufe a work, whose importance is univerfal
v acknowledged. Those who have read the an
:ient systems, and these volumes, will readily per
:eive, that the knowledge of philosophy, acivanc
:s from a state of infancy, towards maturity ;
lor will it appear too much, when it is said, thaa
Dr. Reid has diverted moral science. from tha
veil under which for so many it has been
-oncealed, by ambiguous words and the jargon of
he schools. Thus he has ac\ed that friendly part
;o moial science, which the ingenious Newton
md Fergufon din to natural philosophy j their
united and fkilful efforts, render philosophy, not
inly an ufeful, but a pleasant exercise, and a
more fafe introduction to the mod important ftu-
Jies. —It is impra&icable to insert the lengthy
reviews of this work, and to give a part, would
&e unfriendly to the author arrd reviewers.
ALSO,
Price } neatly bound in 2 vols,Bvo. 2 dollars
50 cints,
A COMMENTARY
ONT H E
BOOK OF PSALMS,
In which their literal or historical fenie, as
rhev relate to David, and the People of Is
rael, is illuftratcd j and their application to Mef
itah, to the Church, and to individuals, as mem
bers thereof, is pointed out : With a view to ren
der the use of the Psalter pleafmg and profitable to
all orders and degrees of Christians. The fitfl
American edition, from the fourth British.
By GEORGE, Lord Bishop of Norwich t and
Prelident of Magdalen College, Oxford.
ALSO,
Zimmerman on Solitude : Price bound and
lettered, 88 cents or 7-Sths of a doU
lar.—Also, Scott's Force of Truth
price, bound and lettered 44 cents.
Just covie to hand, and -for Sale,
DAVIS'S SERMONS
Complete in three vols. 8 vo.—price bound
5 dollars and 25 cents.
Jan. 26. 4t. 1 aw.
CHARLES BITTERS,
No. 120, South Market, near Fcurth-Jlreet,
Has received from New-\ ork, and ma
nufa£hired by Lot Mcrkel,
A large ami general aflbrtment of
Muffs and Tippets, Trimmings
and Edgings,
Great Coats. Caps, Mitts and Gloves lined
with Fur, which he will fell,
Wholesale and Retail,
at the lowest prices.
Nov. 24. saw
THREEPOUNDS REWARD*
RUN AWAY fromrhe fubferiber, on Sun
day the 13th of January, an apprentice
lad to the blatkfiniths buChiefs, named John
Laytcn, about eighteen years of age, five feet
three or four inches high, had on when he went
away, a half worn fuperfine brown coat, a short
drab furtout, bufl callimer brceches a little faded,
worsted (locking?, his fhces tied with black wor
ded strings ; he is remarkably fond of ftrcng li-I
quor, is very talkative when a little intoxicated,
and speaks with a coarse (Iro'ng voice ; whoever
apprehends said apprentice <ir,d fecurcs him so
chat his matter may get him again, fliall have
the above reward and if brought home, reasona
ble charges paid. ISAAC WOODLAND,
Georgetown, Kent county, Cross Roads, Mary
land. Feb. 4, 1793. law. Bw.
PRINTED BY
CHI LD S and SWA IN E,
AT THEIR OFFICE N0.209, HICR-STREET,
MAR FIFTH - STR lIT
PHILADELPHIA,