By P.FRENEAU : (at No. 209, Market Street) Purified Wednesdays and Saturdays, [Three Dollars per annum.]
Numb. 79 of Vol. ll.] WEDNESDAY, July 31, 1793.
To the Hon. the Rrprefentatives of tlie
State «f Pe nnfvlvania, the Remonstrance
and Petition of the Subaribers, Land
iiolders, aiul Citizens ot the laid State.
Rtjpedfully Sheivelh,
THAT they observe With gteat cn-i
----iern, a law of the Legislature p-aflVc!
at the December Scflion T791 entitled kl A'i
ast to enable the Governor of this Com
jrnwiw'ealth to incorporate a company for
opening a canal and navigable water coup
rnnnicatlon between the rivers Delaware
and Schuylkill. &c.
With r'efpeft to the general operator
ot that law, your remonflrants humblj
conceive, that the legislature entrusted b)
tlieir conflituents with the gnardianlhif
and protection of every species of public
propei ty, cannot constitutionally alienati
and tra» fer the private property of theii
fellow citizens, or the profits thereof, foi
the exclnfive and peculiar emolument o
anv man, or incorporate company ot mer
in tlie universe, without their previous di
rest co 'fe»t.
A recapitulation of some of the obferva
tions which have already been fiibmitted ti
the consideration of a diiinterefied ant
enlightened public, through tlie medium o
t!i press, may serve to, ilfuttrate the pre
ceding polition. and bring the law bad
to the reconfidtration ot the legislature
Your re-nonftrants have the misfortune o
greatly differing with some oltheir friends
for while tW.y d.'preiate the menaclnj
conduct which has been recurred *0 f"i
the unwarrantable purpose ot compelling
a facrifice of their property to tlie feififl
views of the canaj company, they <!o no
liefitate to declare their entire appro'mi
on for the public utility of artificial iniaiu
Navigation Had better proof been want
ing than such a declaration, they woulc
mod cheerfully have aided and a'iiiledlh*
tveH mermc < ffii. U of" iSt« l.gir'fcrt.i"?
the arduous work, provided the profits ac
cruing from the toll, reverted into the
public Treafutv for lightening the burther
of future taxation. Instead ot which
your remonstrants cannot but lament tin
mistaken policy of the present system,
which eftabliflics a monopoly bylaw, of
25 per cent. 011 the capital flock of the
company, at the expellee of the belt inte
rest of their fellow citizens. Little, very
little more needs be said at thi early peri
od, refpefting the pernicious tendency of
such laws in thi« country, as it is well re
membered. their operation has never
farted foonet or later to create civil eom
motion, animosity amongfi itspeacea
ble citize*ns,\yhe have been recently taught
in the school of adversity, to think they
still pofl'efs the unalienable right as free
men, to defend their property agaitift the
attacks of unconstitutional authority.
The Srh Section of that law appears to
j'our remonftrants,pregnant with the abuse
of power, difgtiiied under the legal sophis
try of a writ ad quod damnum, directed
to the fherifi" of Montgomery county, (or
as the cafe may be) commanding him to
summon a pofie of twelve men, tor enqui
ring into the damage—" the perfou or
■erfons may sustain, owning any lands or
tenements neceflary to be used by tne said
President and Managers, or which shall be
injured in eflablifhing the said canal" It
fliould feeinaimoftneedicfs here toobferve,
that ia cafe the aggrieved perfou or per
sons, will not content to dispose of their
bottom lands at 251. per acre, the price sti
pulated by the deputies of the board ol
managers, for the molt luxuriant caterer 1
meadows, the whole property demanded
by them, is then wrcfted out of their pof.
feflion, and committed to the expat tc va
luation of the fheriff and his felefted pofie,
Jvhoare charged with the proprietors right
v *if making a title in fee simple to the Preli
clent and managers of the canal company :
Nor can your remonllrants e.xpeft an\
thing but vexation and cxpence from the
remedy of an appeal as celinquent suitor:
to the judges of the supreme court aire: d'y
mulfled as they are with the costs of trial.
What have your remonfir«nts done to
incur such an unexampled penalty ? Ot
are they singled out as victims lor feeling
the pulse of the whole community of free
men
Your remonfirauts, forbear any fur
ther animadversion on the baneful con
fluences of the law as it now Hands,
threatening the liberty avd property ot
every citizen in the (late, and perhaps the
very lives of some, as orderly refpetlable
people as any country can boast. As s\oe
iul experience has 100 often evinced, that
infallibility is not the chartered privilege
of Legislative bodies, your renjonftralits
beg leave to suggest, that it in ay be possi
ble, fume venat designing characters of
the canal company, may have surprised 'he
Legislature into the measure, for the
nefarious piirpofe of Speculation, by mis
representing the advantages of a navi« i
b!e canal ifrom Norriftown to Philadel
phia. The novelty of that project, e»rn
could it be acconrpliflied, would begear
the Hydrophobia of a Brindtv himfe'f,
who wished to make the EftgHlh "
that rivers were only created to fex.nl
canals. Your remonlfrancs haVe never
yet been informed of the navigable life or
a canal clofcly embracing the bank, acd
adhering to the meandering courses of
the river Schhylkill, already navigable SaS
far as the falls, for boats from j to j/j
tons; and might be easily improved with
one tenth part of the expence of opening
the Canal, so as to admit of an uninter
rupted navigation at all seasons of the year,
for boats of 20 tons burthen, by diverg
ing the channel In some places, from the
oppolite, to the eaflern (bore with lloue
walls; and in other places, by embank
ments of consolidated earth, with the coil
ftruftiou nf a highway on the margin ol
the river for liorfeS to tow up thfc boats ti
their rendezvous for freightage down ;
not altogether dillimilar to the treckfciiir
of Holland, from which a moderate tof,
may be collected for defraying the ere
pence, and for the use of the pwb'te funds,
With tniprefiions of a becomiirg diffi
denes in the prosecution of speculative
schemes, your remonflrants have not the
preemption to affirm the one, i-Hat thev
have now |He honor of propofrig to the
legiflatitrejts unexceptionable—But at leafl
they flatter tnemfelves, that it has at onct
:hefuperior merit of preserving tfie invio
lability of private property, and t/ie rfgty
if man, Yoiir remoaftra"' therefore'
j?g leave to rely 011 the justice, virtue,
rod patriotifin of the legiflarure, to grant
:hem such redress, as they in their wisdom
hall think meet; and as in duty bound
hey wijt ever pray, &c.
Signed &c.
For the National Gazette.
t FIND an opinion is endeavoured to be
*■ propagated by the advocates of ariflo
:racy in this country, that public affairs
honld only be difculled by '• men of pro
perty," or what with them is a fynoni
mous term, "reputation."
Strange, that certain infects who have
been thawed into exigence by the sunshine
of the army dues, and owe their whole
ronfequence to the cafy credulity of a de
fran-led public, (hould affurae thus mucli
over what is the birth-right of every free
American, the right of freeiy d'lciitfim'
public measures. " Forget not thuu ni l
made of dust (fays the eastern
that thou inay'fl continue humble''—ii
the fame spirit 1 would fay. Forget not,
gentlemen aristocrats, that ten or fifteen
years ago ; nay, but three or four with
r ome of you ; you would have been dif-
Sculted to make out iron dips to a taubce\
and that altho' now you may be forming
maginary alliances between chunk and
'rate, time has been when ye were nearly
allied to church-mice.
11 is impossible to defend the fyftefri of
lisfranchiling a fellow citizen because lie
s not so rich as his more favoured neigh
jour. L'jider any ftv.e of society proper
:y always lias had, and will have full as
much influence as it ought ; and it is gross
ignorance in politics to add so many arti
ficial to the natural inequalities among
men. Neither am I inclihed to believe
chat public spirit and independence is ex
dulitely confined to the rich ; so far as
my experience goes, the dire ft contrary
is the fact ; and 1 altnoft fufpeft it is a
eafyfor a lirft rate fliip's cable to pass thro'
the eye of a needle, as for a man of large
property to be a good patriot and a friend
to the liberties of the people. 1 am. nut
prepared to believe that public spirit is not
one of the virtues of the man of humble
fortune.
If want of wealth be made the criterion
of literary and other demerit in this coun
try, with what poflible face can the advo
cates of " The Defence of the American
Constitutions," (land up ar.d utter the
endless eulogies of that mighty work? Ab
flfailed from a public salary of five thou
sand dollars a year (1 mere temporary
thing) it is well known the property of
that AUTHOR (to hispraile b; it fpokej)
is little or nothing; ant! that if this or
fomelimilar lucrative station should fail
him, he must t'en handle the spade at
Braintree, or .turning out the present Edi
tor, John I'eimo, take charge of his own
Gazette in this city, to the eternal confu.-
on of the relt ofthe editorial craft.
It would be well enough that fame high
rp rited property-men should br told, that
many of those whom they are ignorantly
.'billing, and endeavouring to hold up in
the light of paupers, and therefore tinwor
thy the common rights of freemen, are
independent landholders, persons of indus
trieus habits and hone't pursuits in life,
that alk favours of no man,nor expe£t any;
abhor every idea of sycophancy, and e
ally despise a knave Whether he he.
" Sporus at cutn't, or Japhet in a jail.''
It'they are not eluded amojig the rich,
it is more than probable an unfufpecYins
lonefly and lincerity in their intercourtt
ivith the world may have been the cause :
md tho' they may not have fndivtduail)
'rickei their country, its army, navy, or
urivateerfmen our of from 40,t0 50 or6o ot
ioo,oo» dollars.tiiey have (till spirit enough
:o exert I itch abilities as they poliels, in
checking tiie monarchical machinations oi
:ertain mulhroomi that are endeavouring
:o set themfelvcs tip as the fovereigil demi
jods of the United States.
L.
The following ii the dcpojlt'ion of Charlci
JVeems, llajler, anil 'James Fi/h,jcama.i,
bejurc one oj the Jujtices of Camlden, it,
Aortb Carolina.
<l BE IT KNOWN, That on the ijtl
Jay of July, 1793. appeared be
ure me, Jofepii Jones Kf<.;. one 01 the juf
ices in and lor tue county of Cambdei
living,at Plank-Bridgs, where no notarj
'i* tuMiMii public is Tirfidertf,- Cn'ailc;
Weems, malter, and James jr'ilh, feammi,
]f and belonging to tiie schooner Eagle
>f Baltimore, 111 the It.its of Maryland :
.vhich /aid appearants l'olemnly declared
ipon their'oaths, that the said fchoonet
ivas loaded at Baltimore, in the (tare oi
Maryland, with ftour, I'oap, candles, dry
;oods, loaf sugar, rum, &c. and no contra
band goods on board, and failed from
Baltimore the 1 rth day of ju le lalt, clear
:d out and bound iorbt. Domingo, a Fremt
iort, and 011 the 24th day ot June, in lati
;ude by observation, 19 10 north, lteering
j. W. for the port of Damemaria, off fan.
ilace was tired at ami brought to by a
chooner called the Kate of Bermuda,
commanded by Joseph Brownlow, ownec
jy Meifrs. Jennings and Tucker of Ber
muda, as tncfe deponents understood bj
aid captain Brownlow. — The laidßrown
ow ordered the said Charles Weems ti
loift out his boat and come on buard tin
chooner Kate, with which he was obligee
:o comply, and alio to deliver up his pa
pers to the said Brownlow, and was bim
elf detained 011 board the said Brownlow'
,'ellel. The said Brownlow then sent hi:
nate and several people on board tiie faic
chooner Eagle, took out all the hands ex
.ept the mate and one paifenger ; and ha
zing put several ot his people on board tlit
aid lcliooner Eagle, lent her as a prize
into Bermuda. Ihe laid Brownlow, af
:er having ordered the said schooner Eaglt
:o proceed to Bermuda, did put the faic
Charles Weems and hi-, crew 111 close con
finement, and lettered them with irons,
threatening to kill the said Charle;
Weems, ajid using him with the greatrll
['everity, under pretence of his velfel beinj
French property; that after failing 8 days
the (aid Brownlow having come in light 01
a schooner called the Harmony, comman
ded by John Core, bound for the port oi
Plank-Bridge, ii) the llate of North Caro
lina, did go 011 board the said fchoonei
Harmony, and having inioimed the faic
John that he mull take the said Weenn
on board the said schooner Harmony, & or
the said Weems remonllrating & declaring
that he was unwilling to go on board the
fchooner,but withed to remain a prifoiierS
to be carried intoßermtida where he niigln
have an opportunity of exculpating him
felf ami clearing his veflel from the impu
tation of being tiie property of ;>ny othet
power than the United States ef America,
the said Brownlow abfohitely refufed, tu
which the said Weems was obliged
(though reluftaiitly}tofubinit, fearing that
if he perfilted in Ins determination ot being
carried to Bermuda the sanguinary con
duct of said Brownlow would extend so
far as to depriv* the said Wesins of I>U
[Total Numb. 183.]
life, before his arrival at that place, lie
having reason to consider himfelf in the
hands of a pcrfon who paid no refpeft to
the laws of nations,and entirely disregard
ed those of humanity. The faid"VVeem»
doth further depose, that his chest was vi
olently broke open, and robbed by the of
ficer of the said Kate, and the sum of four
hundred and fany dollars, or thereabouts,
taken therefrom ■ and that his repeated
claims of the privilege of an American ci
tizen, were unheeded and answered with
infnlt.
Wherefore tliefe ap'pearants, llrft pro
tefling against the circun ftaiues of there
being no Notary or Tabetlion public rea
ding here who could more formally au
thenticate this inftmment, do by thefc
presents protest apmnft the unwari;r table
proceedings of thelaidcaptalnjofeph&rows
low,for all&lingnlar thedanriigt&dam ?,t s
ariftng thereupon, on behalf o! th.mfi.. c
as well as their owners, shippers, under
writers, and other-- therein concerned Iri
tefliwiony whereof these appearants being
sworn on the Ho'y Eva-igvlills as to the
truth of the foregoing, fact., they
have severally fubfenbed their nan.-**
hereunto, in the pretence of two ivitneffe?
residing in Crmden, the 13th clay of July,
1793, the Proteli being coteu down with We
;he fame day.
Signed, by Charles Weenu. and Jamei
Fish. Witnef.es, Charles Price, Peter Mer
_er '; and a'.telled by Joseph Jones, one of
:Jie juflices of the cc.nnty of Cambden ;
*"d confirmed in all the principal circum
tances by the concurrent oath or John
Sore an.l John Goreham.
For the National Gazette.
"THE influence of charaiter , 3rd grezi
•*" names"'over the huiiK.ll mind is truly
iftonifhing. 1 his influence is ob'ervable
even in the molt trifling circt,n..iarce?.
Its effects are more particularly so, in pro
portion to the magnitude of the <>bjefi-, :
:oncerning which a question happens to
arife'. The power alluded to ha» domini
on in a certain deg:ee over the minds
?ven of the belt in oi nied, and is capable
a I being augmented in proportion to the
address of the agem, and the comparative
information of the object upon whom it is
?xercifed. As this influehcr is frequently
lbnfed and often prodiifiive of bi.iet'ul
:onfequences, mankind oiight ever to ■ e
nil their guard, nay it is the:r duty by c\ ery
neans to avoid its pernicious ettects.
Reflecting kill night-on the foregoing
:ruths, I fell into a profound flcep, and
"oon after probably began to dream, the
"übltance of which, as nearly as 1 could
recoUeft., is as follows :
I fancied myfclf a native of the planet
Venus, the inhabitants whereof were not
inly numerous but wealthy, and the conu
:ry throughout flouriflting. The placets
Mars, Mercury, and Luna, I also conceiv
ed to be inhabited and very populoas, and
:hat they all had intercourse with each
Dthrr, some by means of balloons, and
others by wings.
The inhabitants of Mars, me thought,
« ere rather arbitrary, and atteihWeri to
:!omincer a little over not only my coun
rjmen, but a'fo over the citizens of the
>ther planets. We however, alter a levere
fruggle amPfome hard blows, convinced
rhofe martial gentry that we were and
night to be put of the aflioH nf their sphere.
The Itruggle colt an immense treasure at'(l
:be precious lives of thotifands of our brc
.hren. Our object was obtained \frith the
inoft complete Cuccefs, aided however by
the glorious interposition x>f the benevolet E
vtizens of Mercury,ever prompt to l!retc;t
out the friendly arm of protection and re
lief to the diftrefled.
Generous nation I (methofight I heard
some one Exclaim) how much do ye yon -
selves stand now in r.ccd of th::t manly aid
which ye so lately sent others! Ho*' dil
traftrd your affairs in c< nfeqnence of the
hellish combination of the petty tyrants of
the numerous paltry empires, and little
provinces of Luna, re-inforced by the un'-
solicited, fangninary Myrmidons of Mars,
and impelled through prejudice and jea
lousy to this last act of favrge barbaiuy
againlt the citizen'- of Mercury, contending
for an object which they col lider of infi
nitely more value than life itfelf, namely,
to think ahd ait fir t/ici;:fc'vt r.
As I have already mentioned, I fancied
all intercourse between the planets to he
carried on by means of v-ing l : art! feat'otmsj«fatl that a ("iftincl cUss of men, natives of |
nil the planet, wire engaged in this bi'.li
iiefs, ant! might inorc propei ly be calico
planetary tit /en.->, mvre-biris of pajfng.
than considered as belonging to any one
planet. Like moit men, thry were go
verned by their interest, a id that plaiiet
wj their count' )' where their interest was
most promoted.
It happened, however, that a man o
this description, a native of the planet
"Venus, being in a certain port thereof, wa
deiirous of going elsewhere, but the flay*
and rigging of Wis aw balloon being out ot
order, ik tillable Through poverty to refit,he
■\va conltrained to takepaiiage wilh Capt.
B—ch—d, citizen of the pta let Mercury.
Ts T o w, t:i i•; wa de raeel an high mfdemeati
oiir, a deadly trefpaf , by ail the Sachems.
Rhagi, Nabobs, anil d.gmtifd tew ot tht
planet Venus. He was leizetl by autlio
rity, and call ir.to outer darkness. A'
length, however, a trial was iultittited. ar.c
he was brought before the awful tn'nm
of Minos. Khadamauthus, and itaais,
judges appointed b> the fuprStiie authoritj
of tile planet for the trial of all otiViict-■
1 committed agaiult tne dignity of the fame.
As tin earth, so in the other spheres me
thought there was something !ixe a trjal
by fir i.i the crowd were feateti
jiumber of men, to whom, whatever \\a
exprelf.-d relative to the supposed offender,
wa* addr fled to persons on whole join)
opinio, 1, the \ffue of thr cause "depended
Tt.i id i nautilus, of inagn tiide conliderab r
and niiig'ixy mle.i. from elei ated jud.cii
ben.h, o'erlooked the gaping aiixiou
multitude, aid then addreiled, what air)
i'a icy represented to mv mind r i be a jury.
His remarks, methought tended to pre
judge and criminate tne ictufed, wherea
his duty went no fa taer, agreeably to mj
ideas of terreit' ial ju'tice. than to expoii'K
the law. The Circumllance startled me—
Jvly ileep was interrupted, and ol courf:
my dream.
The dreaming (fate however, soon re
turned. I (till fancied myfeJf in prefeiut
of the awful tribunal ol the great am
mighty pdgr Rhadait anthus.&felt mylell
imp ff>d w til t:ie perftialion that I fan
the juitly famed Tully, of old, pleadinj
m :!e oquently in behalf of the nutura
a-i.i unalienable privileges and rights oi th«
fr ,e citizens of the pi met Venus, of emi
grating wiliiberfoever or wlien they pieafec
to any or cither of the planets. The la i
gtiage was plain and frttiple. It was th
language of natiftfe aid of truth. Coil
vi fio.i fo'loweJ it. —Having effected hi
pur|>ofe, he ceased. Another arose, ii
w!i mi dignity and gracefti ness seemed tc
b natural quaiitiej. He brought to ni)
m id the idea I ettertain of the famou
Grecian oritor, Demosthenes Hut he,
as wed s-> Riatkmanthu . appeared to me
to have graduated i'l ecnics at Carthage,
as the a' gume.its of both tended to overset
both truth and freedom, and to condemr
and pu ii ill the inhabitants of the planel
Venus for j ourneyin-g in any ether fc illoon:
than ihofe '.f their owu country. During
the lengthy dil'cuflion of the queltion, tne
kidignScioi of many seemed ready to burl!
forth, at the idea, that the liberty ot the
citizens of V enus IboUid be abridged ; and
that their country, for Me iiulepende ice oi
which they had Co bravely fought and con
quered inlte ld of being their asylum, hat!
become their prifoii! I was at this mo
ment i o"led , rem my dream by the cry ol
O Yes I—die court being adjourned.
July 2), 1793- " TIM jN.
From the (Bojlon) Independent Chjo
N I CLE.
Obfcrvations on oui political and commercial
eoineSiom with France.
' <T">o judge on t >e.e important ftibjfils we
i-miit consider the peculiar lituation ol
the United States, as COUhtticd with th•-
European powers.
As a commercial country, it is our inte
reft to firm a friendiy ihtercourte with
fvich nations, as are tlifpofetl to promote
the great objects of trade on the principle
of reciprocity. To effect this purpose, we
should examine the coudull a id di/pojitian
of the several powers ; and when convin
cetl of their friendfliip, we oughtto grant
favors, antl confer privileges, with the
fame degree of liberality, as they appear
inclined to act towards us. It is a good
max'ni in politics, to do to others, as they
do ti'Wurdi us ; antl in order to prevent a
coiiti m.,nee of injuries, it is incumbent on
lis to check them by a vigorous and timely
retaliation. By pursuing a conflaiit course
of defenjive operations againti such nations
as wantonly endeavor to diitrefs otir trade,
we (hall Cpeedily convince thf?m of otit
mercantile strength. and teach them the
folly of commencing a commercial war
with lis.
These oWervations being preniifed, the
qn«flion is. What nation Teems molt disposed
to form connections with the Unittd State ,
fountled on the broad balis ot mtuual ad
vantages? What European power hold
out the molt favourable terms, to promote
and enlarge our commerce ? Which among
them dilplays a generous cordiality ton-arch
oil (r ivemment ain\ c'tiLtr/s ■, or by legit
1 t ve acts, Ihows a flifpofitioil to harvtwi
ize and eq talize the trade and intercourfc
of both countries ? Can Americans be at
•a lofi to thus disposed
to overtures cf friendfhip ? the
io.Tiui -eil powers at war with France,can
»ne among tlicin, with propriety receive
the appellation of friends, as to their pro
ceedings towards us ? Which of them ha«
ver coin* forward witfi Commercial pro
pntitioiis, worthy our acceptance? Not
\ ithituuding we have rushed precipitately
into the Britifli trade, and incopfiderately
lavished among her merchants and manu
faflureri, the principal part of every pro
fitable branch of our commerce,yet we find
that the nation, far from returning even
Aecent/itteiitiun to the numerous benefit
they derive from onr Connection, treat u
with the mfit jhidied injolaice, and art
ever planning measures to embarraf; u
in every port we enter. Since their con
test with France, ha\e they not prohibitec
ur carrying, the produce of America t,
that country, even a* a neut-al ration •
Our vcflels and properly are now beconit
the sport of their pru ateers ; and the A
•nericau flag, can fcaiiely be Unfurled 01
rile ocean, without being treated by then
with indecency, and exposed to infnlts.
The cooltiefs and indifference which ma
ny feern disposed to fliow towards Franct
are difficult to account for, as it rtfpirft
jotli our political and commercial iiiiertft
As a young nation, is it not of the uuiiol
impoi tame, that we secure the fi:cnd,,.r t
iiit ; cof.fidenct ol trance ? That we d«
iiot create a jeatcufy, at.d thereby eicciii
ler refentinent ? If (lie appears disposed ti
iffiit us, and wishes to bellow every com
me.cial benefit upon us, ought we to trev
ter favors with coldness, or appear back
ward in aclthowiedging her benevolelic<
Hid partiality ?
There appear? a disposition anionyjorne
'opreftr a connection with Britain, ratht
han with F-rance. It is evident that tin
the ami and delign of certain individual'
'remitter they may wijh tn conceal it- B
10 ma 1 who i a friend to, or who undei
la id thepolit cal and commercial welfat
>1 thele'llaies, can seriously desire it
Should Britain succeed against France, caj
we ever expert to reap any advantage
toiii the acquilition ? Miotild they reftori
he monarchy, is there any one benefit ti
ucrue to us in confequeftce of it? V\ i.
he American commerce thrive by th<
neafure, or will there be less impolition
j aftlfed on our trade ? \\ ill the Hritill
iiinillry be more cordi >1 to our welfare :
Will the legtflature of the nation becomi
nore favourable in their plans; or wil
he r acts be less injurious in their opera
ion ? Iu Ihort, not oae advantage can \v<
propose to ourselves from their fiKcefj
Hit on the contrary, every misfortune
would attend lis. If the Britifli are now si
rifo'crtt, amid their present complii ate<
jiflrelfes what may we not expert, Ihoult
:!iey effect their nefarious purposes of Tub
jugating France ? The idea is too diitrcl!
;lg to anticipate.
Bnt let u; reverse the scene. and enquire
What may we not expect fnould France fuc
eed ? The friendrtiip of that nation ha
;ver been cmfpicuous. During our wai
with Britain, we experienced the falutarj
.■frect3'of her favor ible disposition. Sincc
he peace, her exertions' ave not ceased tc
illilV our trade, and cement our alliance.
There has ever appeared a noble genero
ity in all their proceedings, to cnconr.'ge th«
American connection ; defp sing the paltry
resentments that appeared to influence the
Britifli nation, they have treated the Ame
ricans with a lib i ality worthy the charac
ter of a magnanimous people. Since theii
concert with the European powers, they
have come forward with a philanthropy
■I 'd independence that mull aflonifh tneir
enemies, and rivet the alleclions of their all
ies. They fee m disposed to give the United
-tates all tb'e advantages of the.war ; an<
for that purpose have passed decrees tc
jrant the molt ample encouragement te
am" commerce in every part of tlieir do
minions. They ha've placed us on the
broadest basis of neutrality, by admitting
file property of all nations to be Carrie~
: n Aneritan bottoms free from capture.
The importance of the French nation in
the scale of Europe, is a weighty co.dicle
ration, why we ought to inculcate an har
mony with them. Many perfotis talk ol
France, as they would Ipeak of Nootka
Sound, Botany-Bay, or the Miami Villa
ges ; as if it was a country jitfl di/covered,
Hid of but little note in the political calen
dar. But it rises in weight and dignity
when it is considered, as one "of the moti
powerful, molt numerous, and molt Opu
lent nations in Europe. Its power is im
inenfe, when we reflect on the magnitude
as their present cor.test. Is there a nation
:hat could conteti I for so long a period
■wth the combir?d powers of Europe?
That could command such resources ;
maintain Inch armies; eqnip such navies,
and defend themselves without ihe ajjijt
ar.ee of a single ally, again!! the combina
tion ot such numerous adverfarie- ? When
we consider France thus STANDING
ALONF, in this arduous and obstinate
conflict, the ruagnanimitv, resolution and
formidablenefs of the nation,(land unparal
eled.
The strength of the nation is inconceivable,
as it respects the number of its citizens. I
if a final! matter for America to conciliate
die a.Te-Tion* of twenty-fix millions ol
people?— Shall we Uy our coldnejs and]
iuktwurmnejs, hazard the advantages to be '
obt.-. Ned from a nst'oii so rt IpcfUble, r.stc
ts | upulmion ?—is it policy in lis to foi -
ei; every benefit to be acquired liom at,
1' tance so reputable? Or lhall we over
look every flattering ctinfideration nierch
to pay our devoirs to the tottering crum
bling nation of Britain ?—When we re
r!ca on the probable advantages that
will arise to ©ur commerce, in conlnqueiice
of retaining tlie friendfliip of France, ii
imi ft appear the highelt folly not to cement
our union. Should we by our pufillani
uotis conduct, excite their jealuufy, 01
or'feit their confidence, they might be let
0 retaliate with fame pointed lefeiitmeK
>n our condiift ; and should theypmluet
milar fyllem with Britain, we fliould be
Ixced in a very didrefling litnation.
The ref'ources of tne French nation h
mother matter, worthy of observation
t.id mull impress every person with an tx
Iteci idea of its power and riches. Tho
heyitand aione against the combined ar
uies of Europe, they are enabled without
my foreign loans, to raise fun<ls fufneien
or ail other pnrpofes;—ls it poflible ti
oncciveofa nation more respectable ii
his poirt of view?—Notwithftandingtheii
itfnands are so immediate and enormous
we find they are all anlwered with the in
most rtatiinefs, and not a murmur is heard
-it fi er in the National Convention, or a
nongthe people, of the burden o! tb i:
axes.—While the other powers are con
Ulfed for want of refomces, France a
oiuuls with every pecuniary supply, lie
ceflary for the nu (1 extensive enterprises
—Vv'lien we coiifidcr the wealth of France
. companfon with their ene.r-.ies, hov
vastly superior do they rife in onr ellirna
ion? 1 n fnorf, they have already bank
upt'd Europe ; and as for England, ihc;
ave Ihaken her tothe centre, without evei
Iring a gun within her territory, if ertl;
ay the echo of their cannon from the Ifcorc
of Holland.
It is derogatory to France, to draw an;
coinparifon between them and England
■..an the latter clifpb) inch an army, o
equip such a navy, upon any emergency
more particularly, hail they to contend w it!
one quarter the force combined againl
:heformer ? On contrary, the propo
iition of a Joan, has spread such an univer
sal insolvency, throughout the Brittlh na
-1011, as to throw a great part of her mer
hants and m mutacturers within the If a -
me »l bankruptcy, and reduced her lti
niller to he pitiful state of an inflgnrficon:
paw n broker.
These are the ideas that ought to ope
rate on the minds ol Americans, when re-
Hc-aing on our conn<a on with France —
The pusillanimity we lo often observe he!',
up in our papers, may answer the purpolc
ufßritilh sycophants, & others,whole ii.te
i ell wholly depends on the revenue arifin;
1 rom our dejtrt.dive in p. t tat o?,s fun
England ; but the people of America win
ia and reason on the grand scale of pnbli
happinefs, cannot but'view the friendfhi;
of i ranee, as it concern , both our politics
ind common intereil, as an objea of tin
liigheft magnitude.
From the foregoing obfervati.-n«, it i
not meant that we fnould wantonly plungi
"uifelves into a war with the Britiili, oi
oecone a party in the present contcll (tin
tefs France requells it) but thus much i:
meant and aliened, that our /-alio at ho
-1 our demand. ot us to fuppoft our Nat.Ursa,
t lag ; prated the property of our citizens
and poflefs the FORTS within our owi
territories, which, by treaty we are enti
tled to—more efprcially, when it is con
lidered, that the -firing arm of the Union'
has been exerted to quell a few tribes ol
Indians, at.d more money has been ex
pended in thel~ difgraceltll expeditions,
than would build and equip a NAVY, fuf
licient to protea our commerce, and de
iend on.flagag in! every indignity.
It is remarkable, that this ignomirtioii;
Indian war, has ever been vindicated ir
those papers that arc how so zealous tc
injstre tnecanle of France, and palliate thi
-.or.dud of Britain.— Milliors of dollar:
can be expended in difgracetul contract;,
lor the pnrjiolV of destroying the vill-igei
id the Indian natives ; but when the : cr
fidy and insolence of Britain i; brought intc
view, then forfooth the poverty of the
States is pled, and their firength is redu
ced to the forlorn condition of - tiere re
venue cutters.'"
1 o conclude. The prediction for Rritifl
politics among many leading charaaers
the iiiflueiice ol'uofe sentiments, which i
every day prevailing « ithln pai ticulur c r
cles, together with the profpeas of nume
rous fictitious actions being loon com
menced by refugees agc.-in.it e very State ii
the Union, are cirtuvnilances truly alarm
ing, and require a strict watch on the con
duel of Britain and her fateliites.—Provi
■ led they can effcct their pnrpofes by per
t"> al influence 1 drai'i the Treajury ol
every state by coilflant demands from TO-
Kit- held our frontiers, and di/cjjedto
wards As the only friendly power in Europe
these, onr enemies, anticipate the periot
when file United States of America wil
b-jcome SUPPLIANTS to their clemency.
May Heaven avert the cataftroplie 1
A REPUBLICAN.
* Who are probably supported in their clr.ims
tic Britilh nation to ere te divilions, and to
ii Iu i what they have a'reatly paid to thefi
t I -IJ3 .
P H 1 L A D E 1 PHI A.
Wednesday, July 31.
"Public credit (Civ letters from Ireland)
sat n very ow tbb hi re. The Cork a. d
Waterfrcl banks 1j hvt both failed, a: dthe
latter flopped tor an inline life Turn ot mo
ney. Our former K' g» dtamfed 11s viitK
whips, but George the third flagellates Hi
with fec-rpiors.—Our prefenl national war
with France, has added the moll ii.delit le
marks of infamy on our government snd
bankruptcy on our credit. Fe.pr banks
have cloftel in Liverpool for 950,000! and
the national bankruptciesii: 1 : glare a'one
are for 30 million- llerling; in Sco land for
7 millions, and lieiand 3 millions, in all
above 40 millions. Happy .re ye tc. be in
Amc.ica, cut of ftuh dreadful fcer.cs, and
thrice happy may ye ever rt n ain.
'• I thiiiK the European powers w ill ne
ver re-e' ablilh monarchy in Fraice, and
G< d forbid they (huuld ! scenes of desola
tion and c mage are daily taking place
there, as formeily in America, and from
the fame catifes ; but in the end. l'rovi
videiu e \v ill give them a like glorious suc
cess in the caule oi universal freedom.''
Tile follovvirg paragraph of NJ' W5 ap
pears \mdtr the Angulta (Georg a) head :
'' We are authorized to n-.ention, that
official communications have been received
from the President of the Ui i • d States, by
our government, FOR! IDLING GFOR
GIA I O I NT} It INTO AN OVI FN
SIVK WAR WITH THE ( RFEKS—
These orders authorize the raising of one
company of cavalry, and one of infantry,
each to conlift of ico men, to be ccjir.mif
fioned by the governor of this ft.-, re, and
under coiuinental pay u hill! in actual fci -
vice."
Ariflocracy. (fays a correfpordt nt) is
every where taking tie ah,rm at fearing of
the patriotic anddeirocrati fo.ieiic 111 :,1»-
lllhing in tiiis city, to counteract the ex
akct'.ideas c-ngei'derbd by tvi -!;h and im
aginary rank tin,org the American v.til-
Lc.n. The Cmiu\.icul Coui a> /, of July
2j, makes the 'following remarks or. this
!'ubjeci.—" An iiti'ociation ha: lately 1 ceil
(brined in Philadelphia ttrttler the name of
the " Den.ocratical Society, cf which
Mr. RittenhWse is elected file Pre
llde nt.
"13v the declarations of the society, it ap
pears their objects are " to cultivate a just
knowledge of rational libei ty, to facilitate
the enjoyments and eVe-rcife ol our civil
right.-, to trarfnfi unimpaired, to posterity
[he glorMiis Jr.■ itance «l a free : epnbli
can government." I:' their si ndamental
articles'they re cognize the r gJiij rf wan,
and the'exc lufive r; lit c f the people to
make and alter tonus e.f government.
The; declare it tol-e their doty to fuj port
the r.ipt:t:i:a■ Cn.fiitutiun if the Lotted
Stntes, 11,; d that of Pennsylvania—and al o
'• to re rd with attention and difctifs
without f«ar, the coreiuttoi public fer-
C.ints in every cicyai tmtnl of gent inn cnt.
Fhie foeiel'y is to be '• a flandaid to which,
in danger and distress the Iricnds ot liberty
may fne ef'fully lefoit."
'i{ti«rf. — 1' this the " flardard of Coje
tDoii Sei e " round which we are to rally
in oppeft oil to the ariftonacy ol New-
E'.giai dr 1 Why not txult curJt/j 1 ejo ta
'i-jes in Leg.ji.-Jure to guard u. a d | rot eft
our rights What cccafon foi :n extra
body of democrats ? in New Fug a d,
public schools. libraries in eve.village,
aooks a el in eV :y fa m< r's
liotife, " tire./ate: i' f>" nti ■ "aid
teach people their rights. Ihr 1' i«c in
llitutions in Pennfylyani 1 would, in a lew
rears, supersede tiie life of DcptoerctJe
Societies, and doino, e good, than aii the
Societies under heaver.."'
The Principal of Wafliington eol'ege,
at Cheftertowit in Maryland (fays a letter
Ire.m thence) liasafiually betted that there
will be a k :ig of France on the throne ein
the firft day of January, 1794. fie has aifo
yven it as bis opinion, that the grois:: and
temper ot tiie French nation isfi;ited to
monarchy, and that a limited ir.onaichy is
the belt iorm of goven:ment for tln in."
Rates of freight, and price of American
commercial articles atßourdtaux. R5; y 12.
" Freights for Well ! die;. 30 io 3^s'dol
lars per ton. of 4 hbds. wine, and fen per
cent. lor Ille Iranee tio ch !. c . }cr do.
ai el as much back do. For I;ol.and and
flans tow n.-. £. 4 fterl per ton. 1
For the Baltic. 51. co 5. ics. per do.
foreign wheat 7s. Pr lterl. Americtn bnlh.
Flour - - 35:. per 1 a. ; el.
Tobacco - Co to 90!. j e Ct.
Whale Oil - < !. -, (; t .
Liver do. - - 7.5, jerCt.
Whale bone rco so 2501 j er Ct»
Beef - - i t oi. ]» ri ar el.
Pork - 1201. le> 1301. j e-' do.
Exchange Londen, 4>i. fieri, per i vie.
On the 13th inft. departed tliie life,
Roger Shei n tm, FTcp late Irell.it, of the
Senate oi the United States, for the Kate of
Connecticut.
Whoever reach the hift-ory of the'ate
tranfa 'fious in St. Domingo, viil |- c c on
vinced that t: - conduct of the con nf.H
cuers, in oppofni"ii to the arrogai.ee a el
tyranny of the white G;cc:.ant/'g:v«s thefir it ray .of bope that the condition of the
Well-India mulattoes and negroes will be
bettered. The tyrannies and cruelties
jiiihfjtw inflicted by the whites in thef:
•' lit!- of the negroes, the iHands, defy
:i parallel in all hiilory, ancient or modern j
a;id tiio' the secrets of thole terrible ''pri
son houses" have been i:i a great measure
concealed f rom the world, yet those who
have vilited the sugar plantations from thi;
country, have nniverfally returned with a
full'coiiviftion, that we need go no far
ther to ldokfor " devils," than to the gen
erality of the matters of Weft-Indi.
fa in is, furrounr'td with whips, torturers,
wheels, and executioners.
By the fioop Rainbow, in 17 tlaysfrorr
Cape Francois, we learn, that tue Span
iards of St. Domingo, have been repnlfec
in an attempt to lake that pljce. T!'.<
captain of the Rainbow had 43 trench pas
l'engers with him ; 011 his way he \va:
boarded by a ship of 8 guns from Jamaica
bound to Halifax, one Davis commander
who robbed the French passengers of 40c*
dollars in calh, besides some plate anc
wearing apparel. He even seined the
fpoonj ill the hands of the children of £
lady 011 board, as they were eatir.g thei:
victuals.
Accounts from Manchester in Englam
fay, that so deplorable is tlie lituation o
the poor there, for want of employ, tlia'
upon an average four persons are fount
dead every morning in the ltreets, abfo
lutely periflied of hunger.
Few vefiels now arrive from Europe tt
this country without pffengers, to fay
from 20 to to 011 an average, to escape the
troubles of war, and try their fortunes ii
the United States.
governor of South Carolina has br
derc.i the public buildings on Sullivan':
111ind, near Charleston, to be fitted up foi
tl e reception of fuel] of the uiifortuii.it;
fugitives from Cape Francois, as (hall feel
an aiyiuui in mat part of the Unitec
Stales.
A great advantage lias been gained bj
the patriotic forces in France over the re
bels in the department ot Vendee. A!!
their artillery w a taken, with their provi
fion, ammunition, baggage, furnaces ft 11
lieating red-hot balb, cattle, and elg'ntj
waggons laden with grain and flour. Tl'.t
rebels tool; flight and difpei fed in ever)
direction. The dead and wounded were
-very confiderabl;, and prisoners were
hourly bringing in; 26 pieces of c3nnor
w ere taken. They had with them cru
cifixes, agnus dei's, and other religion:
baubles in abundance ; but throwing a.\ aj
thel'e, they took to their heels, to the tun:
ot the seven penitentiary psalms.
Extract from a French paper, dated May 5.
" All the principal cities of the l/nitec
States have celebrated, by feftive and pub
lic rejoicings, the glorious fucccf which
lias 1 itely attended the armies of the } reiuh
republic. At Philadelphia especially, the
happy event lias been commemorated in a
juan ler worthy the cause of freedom and
philosophy : instead of illuminations and
fireworks, tiiey have resolved to celebrate
the triumph of liberty, by opening a sub
s ription for the afliflance of their indigent
brothers; and if their funds prove futlici
ently large, they will extend the fphcre of
their benevolence to all the unfortunate
fins of freedom, without diftinclion.—
These valuable republicans have founded
a iatier allocation, under the name of
'* The French Socicty of the Friends of E
cjualiiy;" the civic fubferiptidn has already
produced a considerable sum.
" We are likewifc informed by recent
intelligence, that the term limited by the
constitution. for thefen ice of the President
of the United States, has lately expired ;
in ciuifcquence of which, they have noml
jiated eleitors, who are to convene in their
respective dates, and will soon proceed to
a new eleftiort.
'• We are since advised that George
"Wafiiington was unaniDioufly chosen Pre
sident of the United States; and John
Adams, t e orthodoxy of whose political
creed is somewhat fiifpccled, having the
next number of luff, ages, unfortunately
remains President of the Senate, arid Vice-
Prefideiit of the Union.
" Anrerica at present enjoys the greatell
prolperfty under its truly popular and ju
dicious constitution, whole libera! pelicy,
rnuft fruftrate every feeble elfort of the
enemies ofequalty, tofubvert the princi
ples of true democracy, which form the
only sure foundation of a just and perma
nent government."
The brig Mary, Capt. Langden, is ar
rived at New-Yor. , from Cape Francois,
vhich she left July o- The pifTengers,
which are 40 in number, inform, that it
was not supposed more than from 6 to 9
linndreds (instead of 10 thousand as we
heard) loft their lives in the affair of the
20th —that not more than two thiids of
the town was burnt—that upwards of
20,000mulattoes and blacks are now under
arms, well fortified—that the l egroes ne
ver came in from the counntry on the late
occasion—that the Spaniards, from their
part of the island, had taken a town, and
were on their march ngainft them, and,
it is Paul, joined by tlic ariftccrats and
country blacks. *
Oa Saturday lift Gideon Henfield, a
gainlt wham a bill of indictment had been
found by the grand jury, for the circuit
court iff Pennlylva:iia dilh'iit, for entering
and lerving 0:1 board the armed French
privateer, called the Citizen Genet-lie
being a citizen of the United States ol
America, took his trial before the traverse
jury; after the arguments of couniel, the
court in their charge gave their unaui
moufly decided Opinion, that a* the treaties
witn foreign po.vers, conftittited part ol
the laws ol the United States, the offcnc.
described in the indiflment, was not Only
an infringement of the laws of nations, bu:
also of the laws of the United States. O.;
Monday morning the jury returned, <vhe>
it appeared that eleven were for a verdicl
of acquittal, and one for finding the defend
ant guiity—[he court haviag separately am:
.iillin£tiy repeated to the jury the law, ari
ling from the facts required—ordered thai
.hey (houid again retire & re-consider then
t'crdiit, allowing the conltable to fuppl}
:hem with water merely : and on Monday,
ibout 7 o'clock P.M. the jury came inti
:ourt, and delivered a verdict—nci cu i L
FY.
After which the jury was difch'arged
ind the court adjour::ed.
On'the 6th Of May, a report was madi
:o the National Convention, that genera
Outlined army confided at that time of lift;
naufind men, belides the garrisons o.
Landau and Metz. Previous to the abovt
date, twenty-five thousand more d.fci
pliued troops had marched to join tht
others, which i;-i the whole would amo'uni
to ninety thouland men, rrloftly veterans.
The French ambassador, at Conftanti
nople (fay the minutes of the Nationa
Convention) has frequent conference
with the Grand Se'gnior, in order to induci
iiim to take a part f iendly to fiance. Hi
rtefigns liue been in fonie measure con a
teracted by tlie ainbalfadors from othe
powers, who by making the belt of thi
Je ith of Louis Capet, have rather preju
iiced the Grand Seignior against the repub
ic. The death of a brother defp'Ot has hat
uch an effect upon him,that he is frequent
iy leen putting his hands to his head, t<
reel whether it still remains on or riot; ant
mce he exclaimed aloud in his con itri
argon—" Liberty w ill gain ground in fpitt
if our villa.nous attempts to keep marikiri:
in llavery."
The Spaniards on (Rationed the frontier:
jfFrar.ce have made no attempt lince theii
-epulfe near Bayonr.e. In a sortie, on<
if the French garrisons tbok 600 head o
spanifo cattle. Two thousand additionu
French infantry had arrived at Perpignan
The Spaniards appeared too weak to pre
the French from throwing such luc
cotirs and provilions into the frontier gar
irons as they saw fit.
The French Convention have decreed
:hat no person flfall receive the funera
lonours of the Pantheon till 20 years arte
rsis death ; by which time it is fuppofei
:he real merits of every liiaii may be >}e
:crmined.—This decree was occafionet
iy a motion to reward the fcrvices of tin
ate general Dampierre, by granting In
Jody the honours of the Pantheon.
Generals Bouille and Lambefc are said t'
je at the head of the insurgents in France
'le.i.' K oa was appointed on the jd o
Vlay to lake charge ef the national force
:o act against them.
Authentic , accounts from Martinici
•euder it certain that the EnglHh, in thei
it tack upon that illand, loft about ooontei
n the different quarters. At the time tli
Englilh fleet firft appeared, the aristocrat
lad polleflion of three fourths of theifland
lilt they have all been obliged to abandoi
t, together with their friends the Englilh
who did not blufli to join against the pa
:r ots. In the colirfe of the attack 2C<
al the Englilh landed, and disgraced them
eves by the vilest of plunder, carryinj
iway with them every thing they coult
ind, plate, tables, chairs, beils, matrafl'es
ineii, and about 30 negroes. They the]
•an precipitately on board their vefl'els, ti
jvoitl falling into the hands of the patriots
ivho were pursuing them. Sinh of the pa
riots as were made prisoners, were almof
ill put to death, alter fufiering torture
unheard of by barbarians themselves.
The accounts frequently received o
nfurreflions in Brittany and some otlie
larts of France, are not wholly unfounded
Eh'-y are excited by the old nobility am
'efraclory clergy, who find means to in
luence some of the moll ignorant. Thi
lumbers, however, of the insurgents, art
:omparatireiv trifling, and whenever tliej
ippear in any force, they are difperfet
and quelled by the national militia, who
ire constantly trained and armed for thai
purpose. The moil dangerous character
unong the insurgents, when taken, are
guillotin'd.
On the 22d of May, there were about
40 fail of the line in Brest harbour, com
pletely equipped, fully manned, and read)
tor failing ; their officers were such as har
raised themselves by their meritand brave
ry, and 011 whom the nation could depend.
The privateers out of Brest had been vei y
fuccef iul in capturing British and Dutch
veC'els.
It is said the juryman that opposed the
acquittal of Gideon tfeniield, upon his
final compliance, informed the Bonclithat
he was induced to the verdidt, becuufe h«
heard threats made out of doors againll
any one who fliould oppqfe the acquittal.
Extract of a Utter from Eaflon, (Pentif.)
dated Ju y 27*
" I; is presumed trom the paragraph in
the National Gazette, No. 181, that some
wrong iniormarion has been received of
the reasons and motives for electing Torn
Hercules to the office of town-clerk of
EaftoH. One reason was this, that Tom
being a smart spirited fellow, and, like
some of the Burgcfles, neither able to read
or write Englifli, it was tlken for granted
he would not record any improper ails,
which it was apprehended might be offered;
but, so far from judging of him aright, he
not only countenanced one of the burgeflef,
who on Sunday the 21 ft in it. carried about
a fubfeription paper, to afiift in railing mo
ney lor the purpose of erecting a pair of
hjy-fcale», but ;Jfo advertised a meeting
tJi be held " nexJunnay -week(to use hi:
own words) to take into conlid?ration an
ordinance for building a mad-lionfe, to pus
some of the burgelfes in, who were
crazy. Such are the conferences ol
keeping such borough officers : Sun
day is devoted to secular pnrpofes."
Governor Simcoe has excused himfell
from attending at the 1 idian treaty witl
the commllioners from the United States.
1 lie pretence is, inconvenience on accouti'
of the daily applications ol'people from the
territories of the United States, for I inch
in Lower Canada. The general opinioi
is, that the guverr.or wishes to appeal
friendly to bo h parties, not to fall out witl
the United States, nor to have an end piii
to l the Indian war. People in those parts,
we are told, consider the war rather a:
English than Indian. [Lanfivg. paper
On Saturday ari ,\ ed here the prize snow
Jane, from Antigua. She is laden with
iiun, and was taken by the schooner Citi
zen Genet, on Tilefday the 23d irifl. ofl
Cape Henry.
A large French privateer has carried in
to Aloriaix the English frigate Pallas, from
India, valued at 2,600,000 livres, or up
wards 6f i 03,0001. flerUng. A French
Indiamanis laid to be carried into Barba
does, valued at2oo,ocol.
The present war between the despots oi
Europe, and the heroic republican citizen
of France, will, at least, have the gooc
efteit here, of making us better acquaintec
with our own federal government, thai
(10 our shame be it said) we have hithertc
been. We have been asleep—the iateiu
powers of that high toned form of leg fla
ti" n we kei p out of fight, and Ike the
motile playing with the lion, fawn am
caress the mod innoxious parts, and hut
ourfelvesin Llie idea, that those powers are
but a name. The levees; the princeh
f;> endor of the high departments: the ex
ctfe laws ; the encroachments on the ftatt
governments ; the forfaken and oppreflec!
date of Georgia, as a member of the union;
the deiencekTs {fate of our fro:.tiers ; the
anci-republican habits of the men in the
high stations round the executive ; the
palaces and imperial domes building on the
I'otowmac; the u retched condition of nianj
ot the survivors of the patriotic army; the
!ii; eling writers who are perpetually af
-ribi;ig our present pr6fp'erity to the wrong
"ourct-s, and deprefiing the patriotism, dig
nity, and induliry of the people, the onij
genuine causes ot happiness and profperitj
n a republic : the unalked conceflions ti
.ke only power on e;t 1 1It which hates lis
md the unaccountable fupiiierefs, whicl:
lermits that power to hold posts contrary
:o treaty, and by menns of them to keej
dive the Indian war, by which our bravi
litizens are butchered, the fettlement.ol
he country impeded, and the treasury ex
1 a lifted j these, and a great number more
)f the fraits of our general government,
imply convince me, that if the people dc
lot take due care, t!ivy will soon Hide
lown the bottouileTs gulph of elefpotifm.
It is our foil—-;t is the people—it is our
union—it is our liberty which will make ui
a great and happy people. At the cloO ol
:he war/designing men took advantage ol
our impoveritned condition, and promul
gated op! 11 on % that th« imbecility ot' 0111
country, was owing to our defective con
:fcderatir.il, not to the ravages of war—
energy, energy, .vas the cry ; note we have
energy to our sorrow. It was the mali
cious conduct of the Britifli court whicl
prevented our trade from increasing; land
-1 d property of consequence fell; the far
mers were not duly encouraged, and the
building of shipping was at a rfand. Policy
then induced us to tranm el ourselves be
cause we were poor; touch noise was
made about the slates not fulfilling the re
quisitions of Congrcfs ; ihe truth is, they
were in general too poor to doit: but
now, that the resources of America go into
one fund, what becomes of the money i
Do we kHen the public debts? Or do we
not continually borrow from Europe ; sup
port flioals of useless ministers at exorbitant
salaries, and keep up a llanding arm),
without protefling our frontier citizens.'
The afliimption of the state debts, was a
neceflary and unavoidable measure, be
catife the federal government absorbed all
l)\e revenue ariliiig from the impofi ; but
has the msney been well hufbnmled ? (V,
(locs it not serve to make princes and na
bobs among us? And, does r.ot the afiump
tion iiold us in fubje£lion to foreign flock
jobbers, and thus rentier us subservient ti>
the purposes of venal European courts ?
I am firmly of opinion, that our security
from foreign ai-,d donieflic foes, depends
entirely on our republican habits, and that
the principlcsof the confederation, not the
abiorbing abyss of a monarchical form,
under the specious garb of republicanism,
will keep us free ; nor is it in the excise
fchenies of a financier, or the Prussian mi
litary plans of a secretary at war : but it is
in the virtue, the knowledge, the liberty?
and the courage of the people, under the
itate governments, that we are to look foe
[he props ofJr. j edom.
[.V. T. D<ary.']
Extract of a letter from a gentleman in
New-York, to his correfpundeut in this
ci; y.
" The medical profeflors of Columbia,
'"allege cannot live without (hewing enmity
0 each other. The Dean of the faculty.
Dr. S. Bard, has been severely attacked iii
liflerent newspapers, by anonymous wri
ters. There is every reason 10 suppose,
rom prefem tircumftaiices, that the medi
al fthool here will not continue much
longer in exillcnce, at lead, if it does, it
« ill neither be advantageous to the pupil,
or refpeftable itfel'f. Dr. Nicholas Ro
mayne has finifhed his medical lectures,
with a full determination never to lefhire
again in New-York. He has likewise
jiven up the practice of tlie Alms liouje,
as ordinary phylician; and IJr. Seaman is
appointed in his place. This will, in ray
opinion, be a considerable obstacle to the
>roiiiotion ot medical inftruitioh in this
ity, lor it is very probable it v* ill put an
utter stagnation to the lectures UCoh.mbii
because Dr. Romayne stimulated
he protifl'ors to come forward in the
nanner they have done, or else it is more
han prohibit they would have lain dor
nant time without end.
'• He is a gentleman of profound know
edge and learning ; and lias discharged
he several funftionj of his profefiorfliip
ith honor and reputation.
'• Di;. Romayne intends tn go to Eu
ope in a short time, there to spend the re
liairtder of tiis lite in tranquility and peace;
>y so doing, he will leave behind hisbafe
aluirtajators, who are truly emblematic
>f the dog in the manger, who would nei
her cat hinilelf or permit otners to eat."
7 he following note (said to to be an ck
ract of a letter from New-York, dated
lily 20th) was yesterday placed on the
:offee-houfe book-.—
" The Boston : igate lias this morning
ent up per the Revenue Cutter, a chal
enge, which after c .. t. Dennis delivered
t to citizen Bampard, he put it on the
:offee-houfe books, viz.
" Snbjeft Coffin of the Boflon, prefents
lis complements to Citizen Bompard of*
the Amb&fiade, and w ill be happy To fee
lim a few leagues from the Hook, and
•v'll Wait lo days lor him. Subject Coffin
las only 32 guns, and h»pes for his answer
n that time."
1 o this note is fubjomed a line or two
from the person who writes the letter,
'.vitii a farcaflic remark, '' that Eompard
jave lor answer, he mnil vjait far orders'
from Mr. Genet."—We have only to ob
serve, that there are tuo or three letters
tiom New-Y ork, of limilar tene»r, except,
that they vary as to the name of the !>ri
tifh captain,, some calling him Courtney,
and o;hers Coffin. If there be any reality
11 the challenge, we may f.-»on expert to
hear of some of the parties being coffined.
I here is a French 40 gun frigate at
NewcaOle, and a 20 gun Victualler at
Fort Mifflin.
TO JUSTICE,*
An abufne Scribbler.
fh,'rd faciint domini, audtut cam talia
f' :ycs - VIRG.
1 man that doth an elephant pursue
_y hose capture gains a noble price.
Amid the cha'ce heeds not the barking crew'
Or leflVr game of rats and mice.
On ocean's wafles w ho chace the royal flag
stopstop not to take the privateer :
to felze the iteed, neglefls the
nsg ;
No squirrel hunt will catch a deer.
A blockhead's venom ever spits in vain :
To honour's coat no drop adheres—
Go wretch—to white-waihM fquires,dif
clofe your pain.
Your tiny gods, and godling peers.
The little cpes, tfiat flrnt in courtly guis",
May vile abuse thro' you impart ,
1 But I—that 011 no Treaftiry lean, defplfe
Your clumly quill, and canker'd heart
I
Mark'd for her prey, with vision quickand
keen
The gallic genius shall pur/be,
Cohiign your weazon to the guillotine,
Ami give the dogs their due.
i * See Gazette of ;ht United S'.ate:
Jnly 24,-Ml 1
,| ■ u J\pn.the National Gazette.
1
-J • The hvnjl Man't Prayer.
B 1 '-''•NT of mtnre, justice, and of right!
,ot;iin o'' wisdom, and true source of
j lij'.ht,
myfelf to 4can•;
I.ifpireiny foul with notions Just of thee,
fc'ijr.',u.;i|l i-ny as they ought to be,
• .relative to man.—
0 give me friends'! but rnnke ere far above
ThHr&lf'ts.theirfympathifc'nig tears &. love,
■ That so they may prove kind ;
T'ir T'liave found by long expe-ri-enre,
'J'har'thofe arr people ofthe greatcflfenfe,
Who no profeffiom mind.
Ogive me health, that so no DoSors mny
1 !t iu..!.e m? worse, then after make
.„h j. we pay ;
Thou can'it me cure or kill—
Jiie but good, my neighbours will
bejuft;
With law-fiiits,Lnrd,o let me not be curst;
| ,I li;tte the Lawyer's b; I !
Jfithr.u.'in justice tfcinh'ft I wait a wife,
Xo I'lake mv bed and fmootli the cares
of life,
< And krep mv bores from pain,
0 ; r ivc* ip" one obedient to my call ;
But tiionlc! Ihe kick, or drink, or scold or
brawl.
Lord take her back again !
Diflife fair Liberty thro' ev'rv clime,
W • si e expand her wings to eiuHi'fi time,
■ A rid Frenchmen live (Voire,
F-o'fii'ihipioin crjft and clanking chains,
From the Baftile and racking p.+ins,
Which crlhlhey did encure 1
Tl'o.u great ft .'ft canfe haft made me, and
my Dre.-.th
1 know mnit cease in what we men call
death ;
In this thou haft doi*e right :
Wh.'tj'er remains. (for y. tof fouls I know
But very little) let them timely go,
Alul join thy light !
J. A. N.
. P.lijlad. July 26.
-1 1 : '
From the Nkw York Journal, &c.
»
ICAN S Or but regr t the ill judged
policy which induced t' e President of
the Federal government to publish an i;n
solicited declaration of the part which the
free, sovereign and independent States of
Artier! a v. ill ast in the present scene of
Lclfifh warfare and heavenly reliance.—
v Why a.nit our sympathy—our warm at
tachment to the generous friends who
fought for us, and who now have to face
tile 1 tyrants of Europe, only because they
v.'idi to b free after our example, be
1,1 tinted ? Why mud the.pacific (iifpoli
tjops of the republicans of America, be
qvteltioned by a proclamation calculated to
imprt fs an opinion 011 t e minds of distant
nations, that we are ungovernable, sivag e
people, rot to be held in awe or fuljec
t?o'h, without fomethng like Frederick's
ifiandatc? and why mull the dignity, the
liberties and he commer e of the United
Sta .es, be fpo:ted away to please the des
pots of Europe, and insult the friendly de
meanor 'four brave allies ? What have we
gafned by this pompous display cf uncon
stitutional, impetial authority ? N.tional
inpignities from the very people (the Eng
lilh) for whom the proclamation was
chi fly intended ; our flag is insulted ;
<*» comm(t« diUreffed, and our revenue
undermined : for f our trade fuffers, our
impost will decrease. But, fay the pro
clam tioniles, the revenue is eolledh-d
Lorn the importations of British goods;
this is partly true, and partly falfe ; but
without making minute calculations, it
may be obf rved, that unless we can carry
our own pridrce to maiket, unmolefttd,
our imp;>!> wll avail us but little, iinee
without disposing of our good?, how are
we to pay for British articles ? The Bri
tish cruizers, by cbflrufting our com
merce. injure us in the moll sensible man
ner; while they deluge us with inunda
tions of their merchandize,they will hardly
fnfTer us to can y a ba: rcl of flour to mar
ket, without wreaking their envenomed
Vengeance on our helpless vcfTtrls —It is
truly enigmatical,"tha while a proclama
tion dfclaies, that the people of America
are dead to every sentiment of gratitude
—that they a'e entirely indifferent and un
inlerefied in the great druggie between
defpotic/io'ttw and republican liberty —
that wtl cold hearts, we will fee our
c'tily friends cut down, violate treaties,
and proflrate our rights, our glory, at the
footilool cf the Bri ifh throne—that
throne, which once deluge ! our country
in blood 1 - I fay, wh'te the fame procla
mation, or edit"*, iicprtffcs such ideas, the
pic-pie of America, pr.d tLc citizens <f
I'ranee among us, appear to have but one
wish ! They walk together, they fit to
gather, and they celebrate the political
birth-days of the two countries, with one
foul. No anniversary since the e'ablifh
ment of our independence has been kept
!ike the loft. The fourth of July, 1776,
while it gl (Mens every honed ; eart, wil
receive additional eclat, from the four
teenth of July, 1 789, —It is to be hoped,
when the representatives of the people of
America have convened, they will speak
the lentiments of their conftituents—lf to
iileafe those in high Rations, they betray
he liberties and happiness of the free
•epublican3 who elefled them, may they
1 ver more enjoy the confidence of free
Tien I But why should I ha/. -. rd a doubt
—will not a major ty in C'ongrefs be
ibove the influence ol the federal prero
native ? Sinecu es have multiplied excef
ively—Let us therefore be on our guard.
The PEOPLE.
Fron the New York Journal.
rllE persons officially fold to a cer
tain faddion beyond the seas, vvhc
•ndeavour, in this country, to tarnifb the
: ara&er of the F ench, liave not at t!ii'
I 'l e, maJe a good choic of their kind cl
:alumny. They have publicly declared,
fiat the English fjilors, who were prifo
urs, were treated with a vile parfirnony.
md that the captains of the merchant vef
els were r c uod to the fame alloAancc
A'ith their men.
As the public conduit in France is 0-
?en to every eye, the darkness which co
hered the ni) furies of all their adminiftra
ions having been dispelled by the light oi
that t-kunder which laid open to the view
jf mankind the dungeons of that inferna
prison, the Baflile, any person ie at liberty
to goion board the frigate Ambuscade.
now in this harbour, at any hour of the
lay, and consult either t> c prisoners, o:
the records of the daily expences, and he
will be convinced, that they arc treated
uft as the French sailors are. The cap
tuns of merchantmen, agreeably to the
national order eat at the matter's table ;
and both the captains and men participate
n the exiiao' dinary allowance of rum and
wine diftrihuted on certain occasions ; on
: 'ie 14th ot Julv the prisoners had, ss the
French, a double ation. Without divel
in£ longer upon calumnies at the naming
whereof every one that is acquainted with
the French chared r will fhn g uptheh
shoulders, I flinll only repeat, that he who
doubts what I h -ve here affer ed, may, by
,oing on board be cafily able to ascertain
the truth thereof.
On the other hand, let him cnl' on the
French conftil, and he \vi 1 be fiiown pic
tures of a very different nature—l (hall
trouble you with the ou lines of one only :
A French officer, a young citizen, with
1 heart replete with candour, late'y arrived
From Halifax, where he (us been detained
1 p'ifoner, declires, that he was 40 days
jn board the English frigate Alligator,
'vas every night put in irons, was, in the
Jay time, compelled, by blows, to work,
;nd was at !a!l reduced to a ration of ten
mnces of br"ead per day.
Many of you, citizens of America, can
ealize a lively colour of this fort of treat
ment, by a recollection of what you have
ormerly fufTered in a similar fit jatLon, fr.im
the lame Anient, generous and humane nation.
I cannot avoid obferring, that it would
ie prudent for Engliihmen or their adlie
ents, when they intend to attack the
French chara&er, in the presence of Am:-
icans especially those who live in the city
Df New-Yoik, to fiitin, with the moil at
tentive care, the word HUMANITY,
rom an apprehension that they might be
equefted to recolledt the total suppression
if that divine virtue towards their coun
:rvinen in the ship Jersey, and the various
prisons of this city, for a time fufficiently
long to carry thousands of martyrs in the
:aufe of freedom, to an untimely grave.
The English apologills ought to leave to
their great grand children the talk
of extolling that nation in a country, whole
v.- unds, received through her mercenaries
a "d hirelings, will not be perfectly closed
for a certs: y to come.
It is not difficult to dilcover the motive
for railing the bale calumny refpedting the
prisoners in the Ambuscade. ' 'i here are
people in this country who belong to no
nation, who are bed pleased in the rnidft
oj discord ; and having been accustomed to
look upon men a: Leads, a:;:ufe tLcjnfelves
in endcavoii-ing to ralfe one nit'on agnlnf!
anotner. J .iey wifn to raise tne paflions
of the foreign sailors, and prov .ke the n
to r. c:proc:;l infuks, with a view of giving
trouble to t!;e friends of peace, and of dif
ilurbing the police of tlii city.—This pro
ject i-j not concurrent with the principles
of humanity ; (-hi if i 3 to bi hoped, that
they will be foui d out, and when known,
that their ingratitude and malevole ce will
he permitted to pass without any punish
ment, except what Hi all arile fom public
opi ion, which I have no doubt wiil do
fuli ju ft ice to my countrymen in spite of
fu. h insidious calumnies, and impotent
wickedness.
A FRENCH OFFICER.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
BY MATHEW CAREY
No. JlB, Market-Street,
Rmbellfh edwith a MAP of Sourh America
NVI , Of a NEW SYSTEM OF MODERN
GEOGRAPIi y.
OR, A GEOGRAPHICAL, HISTORICAL,
AND COMMERCIAL GRAMMAR;
And prelfjit State of t'.c Several
Kingdoms of the world.
CON TA|NI KG
[. The n-otions, and distances of the pla
ners, according to the Newtonian fyftemi ana
the latelt obfet vations*
11. A general v ; ?w of the earth confidcred a? a
planet j with fevers I ufrful geographical defi
nitions and problems.
[11. The grand d:-vif;on of the globe into lands
and water, continent* and illands.
IV. T.ie fituarion and extent of empires, Icing
doms, flares, provinces., and colonies.
V. Their climate#, air, foil, vpgetab'e producti
on?, metals, minerals, natural currcfitves, leas,
rivers, bays, capes, promontories, arid lakes.
VI. The birfls and beaits peculiar to each country.
VII. Observations on the changes that have been
any where observed upon the face of nature
frnce the most early periods of history.
Vi •I. The history and origin of nations ; their
forms of government, religion, laws, revenues,
tax.-s, naval and military lhength.
IX. Trie Junius, manners, customs, and habits
of the people.
X. Their language, learning, arts, fcienccs, ma
pufa&ures, and commerce.
Xi. The chief cities, lUu£tures, ruins, and -
lificial curiosities.
XT I. The longitude, latitude, bearings, and dil
utees of the principal places from Philadelphia.
TO WHICH ARE APPEP.
I. A Geographical lr.dex, with the names, and
places a Iphabetically arranged.
11. A Tatle ofthe Coirs Of all Nations, and their
value in English Moncv.
Jli A Chronological Table of remarkable events,
f,om tne Creation to the present Time.
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, Esq.
The Agronomical Pait by James Fergufon,f*.RS
To which have beer added.
The late Difcoveiies 01 Dr. Fhrlchel, and other
eminent Astronomers.
The firjl American edition, ccrretled, improved,
and greatly enlarged.
The publisher of this woik, thankful for the pat
ronage with which he has been honored, fub
miis the present number to the inipe&ioo oi
his feiiow-citizens, and lays before them
The terms of publication .
J. This geography fhaU bo published in fortv
• eight weekly numbers, each containing twen
ty-four pages of letter press.
JI. In tlie coxjife of the publication will be de
livered the following maps ;
j' The world. 2. Europe. 3. Sweden, Den
maik, Norway, and }• inland. 4. Ruflia. 5
•Scotland. 6. England and Wales. 7. Irelano
8 France. 9. S vei Uil ea Provinc*.,. 10 Au
ttrian and French Neth riands. 11. German).
12. Switzerland. 13 Poland. 14. S: r. n am
Portugal. 15. Italy. 16. Turkey in Europe.
7* Alia. jS. China. 19. Hindoftan. 20. Af
ica. 21. North Ameiica. 22. British Ame
rica. 23. Welf-Indies. 24. South America.
25. Planisphere of the earth. *26. Countrie:
round the north pole. *27 Discoveries made
by Captains Cooke and Gierke. *28. New.
f J ampfhire. *29. Massachusetts. *30. Con-
I' e <ft i<_u t. *31. Rhode I Hand. *32. Vermont,
r33. New-York. *34. New-jeiTey. *35
"ennfylvania and Delaware. *36. Maryland
*37. Virginia. *38. North Carolina. *39.
Suuth-Carolina. *40. Georgia. *4r. Tht
Sy here. *42. The Copernican system.
N. B. All the maps marked with flars are
added to this edition, exclufl-.e of those in the
Ijft London edition.
That no dilappointment may arise fra#n sub
f.ribers expecting what the pubi ; lh<r m-iihcr pro
mi'ffcs nor is iblp. to perform, he gives this ear!-.
& explicit notice, that to lome of the States it wi,
be impoflible for him to give maps fully accurate,
no late surveys having been made j and it is haid.
Iv neeefiarv to observe, that it fails not within
i>is plan to go to the expense cf iurveys. But ir
every inflance, he will avail himfilf of the Iff.
materials extant : and such conc&ions and adoj
tions as his utmo.'t exertions call procure, flia;
be m i^e.
111. Ihe geography ofthe United Starrs is un
deitaken by gentlemen of liievaiy abilities, w h>
have engaged to give a mere fuil
ry account of it than was ever published 1;
will extend to 250 or 300 pages, although ir
the Bntifh edition, and even in that ef 1-02
it makes only about 30.
IV. Snoti\d the work exceed forty.frght num
be v, theiurpl.us will be delivered gratis to the
fubfcribfis.
V. r l he p ice of each nymKer will be a qiiartfi
dollar, to be paid on eclivsry.
VI. Such '■ui r.-nim a; in r,lot dioofc to trreive
Ihc «- ,k in numbrrs, are to pay three dollar
ar t!. e IK of fubferibijog.
Tile pi ncr, anxious to render this work as
pri-frd as the nature of it will allow, mofl ear
nrftJi r.-quffts, that such gentlemen. throughout
the Uri' rd States, as liavr it in their power, will
iurnlft hm with documents for correftinj} the
past . rrou in the geography of America, a. d f.r
' ' fl,in e » more complete fjllem ol geography
tnart has yet appeared.
( - he title page, lift of fubfcriber*s a?mee with
t. e account or the Newtonian lyllfin, i.e. Set.
will be given in trie 47th and 48th „un it s.
N. R. The fubfci tiers, and the public in r--
neral are requefttd to conlider the following very
material incumftanct— I The London quarto edi
tion ,S lolj here, for lilted, dollars, although it
[-"mains only 25 map. „nd (.la-es, and of the f ri.-
: raphy . t he United 5t.!..., as ha '..Cfn oblcrvtcf
above, only about 30 ;,a ; o«_„herea , C arey's
edition will contain 42 naps and arid have
fwo hunlred of er. r pr[ i. n . And ic
need not be obleiveJ, that the fevcnt.rn m ?-s to
be adde . are of , r . m| . M , a „ ie • . -
by lar, than the 25 LonJcu or.es. Tl < .
tion will apply with e, u ,| force lu the Utter prtls
9<iditiuns.
The maps w'l bfrublifced >n ft;c> 'r -f
focceffion as thev aie engraved, and direfiion- will
be printed for ti.e prupt,- manner of tm-cift. them
tie book, binder.
i wenty-five Dollars Reward.
RAN a/..,- fiom the iwofci iber, 1
the evening of the sth ie.fta■ t, a Negri man
named SOLOMON, aboot ft e feet two or three
inches high, yellow cimrlexior., Ipeaks good
Englifli, can read well, arid is an ai'llve smart
Jelloi' —had on and to. Ic v~h iiim, a new wool
har, linfev fnll'd coat, f, miry veils, en- rtriped
pattern not made up, fuilia-, overalls, oew O.oe-s,
dnd sundry others not here afcert»ir;ed. Whoever
will (ecure the above me: tinned nfytn in any
jail, so that the owner gets him nc?in fball h?ve
the above reward and ail reafin; be by
JOHN DEVVUT.
Newton, SufTeit County, New-Jerfry,
J u 'y ®, '?93- 4t1.1v
Ten Dollars Reward.
RAN away f.rom llie t ut-fcri-bi ron tn A ifwh
of June la 0, an apprentice Jad named
JOSEPH CURTIS, bv trade a h;>ufe carpenter,
about it) jears of sgr, 5 feet 9 inchfs high, is
left-handed, liyht brown hair, full faced ; had
on when he went away a brown broadcloth coar,
with metal buttons, rtriped cotton waistcoat,
ind homespun linen t»owlirr«, coloured. Who.
per will take up fajd apprentice, and (ecu re hira
in ja;l, so that his master may get him again*
or bring him home, shall receive the above re
ward, and reasonable charces :,aid by
WILLIAM COOKE.
Bordeqtown, July 6, 1793. lawjw
Shre-wfbnry and Philadelphia
STAG E.
THE Shrewsbury and Philadelphia ftape,
will 00 ih me nee to run rrgularl\, on Thurf
ua> he fourth c f July, to leav Philadelphia o \
thar day, after which rim-, during the month
of July, i w 11. ft?rt from M'Ksar. andVaoEm-
wharf a Philadelphia (the next wharf be
low Arch Greet) or. every Sunday and Wednes
day & proceed to Bordenton—the land ftay;e to
r-roceed on the next morning to EdingrorT and
to return orv every Torfday and Friday. In the
month of August, itwi l leave P.;ilad Ipl.ia on
every Sunday and Thursday, and re turn on every
rut:fday and Saturday*
Fare for PafTengers/rom Philadelphia
to Edinuton - - two dollars Sc an half
For goods ditto - ditto pr. cwt. one dllar.
VAN EMP.URC- 6f M'KE^N,
S A Tvl L*£ L tORMAN#
Rordenton June 29, 1793.
For freight or apply to the mailers on
board, or to
M'KEAN & VAN EMBURCH
Who have for sale as ujuai at their (lores cr s a id
arf, pork, liams, fluur, la-d, B.itter, rye and
dia.l meal, cheel'e, bar iron &c. &•:.
J u 'y 3- 2m. 13w.
Wants Employment,
A SINGLE MAN who wntes a good hand,
2nd is thoroughly acquainted with brok
kceping, accounts, cor.efpondence, iVc. His
a&ivity, sobriety, and fidelity can be proved by a
recommenciiition from a clafijcal House of rh s
city, by whom he was lately employed—Or, he
would be glad to meet with some accommodation
m any parr of the country within the United
■States. Enquite of the Editor of the National
Gazette, at No. 200, iVlaiket Street.
N.'>. No one need apply except he reai|j want
a person of the above description.
Philadelphia July 24. lawtf
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold by Thomas Doc on. V.' IL
liam Young, Robeh Campbeu-'
Meflrs. Rice and Co. :ind John M (
Culloch, No. 1. North Tiiird-lireet,•
A N EXAMINATION of th? late I>lM
* ceedings in Congress refpeßllls t!:e
' incial conduct of tlie Secretary of the
I realnry; with Obfervatioas, t>;c. on tbe
application of loans from Hull n'd. nc«oi
ated under the ivils of the 4th and'irth of
Angnlt 1790 —The price of the above
pamphlet U three sixteenth.i of a doil::i-, or
is 4d. 1-2. April 24. 2aw tf
fBIST'D BY
CHILDS and S W A I N E.
'•T THEIk «f FICS NO. ZOg, H ICH-ST* S|Tt
Ji IA R riPTH-STRH?,