Numb. 29 of Vol, ll.] WEDNESDAY, February 6, 1793.
[Correspondence between Mr. Addison
and Mr. ClyMer ; continued froln
our laft.J
Copy of a letter from Mr. Clymer tc
Mr. Addison.
Pittfburg, Sept. 28, 1792.
Sir,
T ARRIVED here forae days ago, undei
the authority of the Prelident of the
United States, charged with several ob
jects, all arising out of the opposition ol
some of the western counties to the reve
nue laws of the United State;:, and to tlx
authority of government—One of these is.
44 To enquire carefully concerning th<
perfonswho are reprefentcd to have me
naced Capt. Faulkner, (of Walhington
and those w 110 appeared in arms for the
pnrpofe of obftriifting the law. To ob
tain evidence as precise as polfible, aswel
to identify the persons, as to afcertair
their language and Conduit. To take foi
this purpose ciepofitions of as many refpe£t
able characters, as may be knowing to tlx
cireumltancet. and to engage one or twe
of the belt informed to come to this city
(Philadelphia). Every neceflary nieafurt
with regard to bearing the expence, ant
compensating for the time of those whe
may come, mult be taken." These ar(
the terms of my firft inltruflions on thi:
head i but by an additional inftrufHot
received this day, the designation of the
witnefl'ei is changed, and they are to be
at Yorktown some days previous to the
nth of October, when the circuit federal
court willbfgin itsfeffion.
It has been represented to me as much
too hazardous to attend to this buHnefs in
person : It is therefore, that I request
yon will execute this part of my cominif
fion, and transmit the depositions to me at
this place. The persons who have been
pointed out to me as acquainted with these
tranfcaifljr. MeJlVs. John Hogc, Jame:
Rofs, John Dodd, Pirrviance. Gabri
el Blackeney, John Hughes, Hugh Villon.
You will call on all or any of them as you
/hall think proper.
Since the disorders referred to above,
others I understand have lince taken pi act'
in Wafhingtm i the assembling of armed
bodies, with delign to intercept or inter
rupt the Infpeitor of Revenue, or other
officers, in its execution. These you will
please to include in your enquiries.
I am, &c.
GEO. CLYMER.
Mr. Addison to Mr. Clymer.
Walhington, Sept. 29, 1792
Sill,
YOUR letter of yesterday from Pitts
burgh slates to me, that among other ob
jects of your journey to this country, one
is to take tlepolitions on purpose toafcer
tain the persons who in various ways have
obftrufted the revenue laws of the Unitei
States, and die lircumltances of this ob
struction. an d have those depositions anc
some ol the belt informed witnefles fenl
to Yorktown before the nth of Otfober,
when the circui't federal court will begii:
its fellion ; that you nave been induced
to fear it is much too hazardous for you tc
attend to t!(Jr. bulin?fs in person, and
therefore recpjelt that I will execute this
part of your enmmifiion, and transmit the
depositions to you at Pittfhurgh.
I am convinced, Sir, that your informa
tion or suspicions of personal danger from
coming to tliis place, and executing your
commilfiou yourfelf, have no real founda
tion. For your coming here is not to set
up an office of infpeftion iu this countrv.and
fix on t'h</ distillers the penalties of the
extife la iv, and it is against thi's that the
paflion?. of the people are directed. If,
however, any thing I can fay fliould fall
to givij you fcolifidence, several gentlemen
of thin town and county, members of the
Pit.tlburgh committee, a\ ill be in Pitts
•tyg'ti in a few days, iu whose company
I think you will have little doubt you may
come in fafety, and who, I am confident,
wi'll pledge their word for your security.
I'.' after all this you fliould believe there i:
danger in the business, you muff believe It
owing to some very ileep-rooted refent
meilt in the minds of the people, and that
the object of this resentment is not the
person, but the thing. Do you believe
that your person can be liable to danger
from any inhabitant in this country, ex
cept info fur, as your presence here atfefts
their interelts or opposes their opinions ?
or can you believe that any repeatability
of person or chara£ter will save a man
from dlflike, if Jiis office or employment
15v P. fREN£ AU ; Pubiifhed Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per anjium.
obftrufts the interest or opinion of those
aiming whom he is ? Ask General Nevill.
Ii therefore it be true (and you cannot
doubt it) that it is the measure, and not
the man, that the people hate, is it proper
lor you, who have accepted this cominif
fion from the Prelident of the United
States, to devolve the execution of it on
one to whom it is not direitcd, and in
whom no confidence i« placed by it ? Or i.
it proper, ii the measure be odious in thli
corner of the country, to require the exer
cise of it from an inhabitant of this corner
every day. exposed to the paflions of the
people in it, and who, from the nature ol
another office with which he is honoured
nught, if poflible, to poflefs the affection
:he esteem, and the confidence of his fel
low citizens ? And is it not more reafoiia
ble, if the measure be necessary, that ii
liquid be effected by a man not refulen
lere, in whom the confidence of this peo
ple is not nocefl'ary, and to -whom theii
millions of him 16 of 110 immediate con
tra ? I am persuaded, you did not f£i
hose things in the light which I do.
But I have other reasons for declining
his commission. It is my fixed opinion
:hit the judicial system of the United
Statea impracticable. tinlefs it is intend
?d to facrifice it to the ellential principle:
if the liberty of the citizens and the juil
iuthoritv of the State courts. As u-citizer
ind as a judicial officer of Pennsylvania. i:
s my duty to preserve both. As you (late
herefore, that the ofcje£t of this enquiry is
o found a prosecution in the federal
:ourts, if even I were sure that you hac
mthority to delegate your power, (oi
•vhich I doubt) and that it was my dot)
o c-xecute this delegated authority (whicl
s not hinted) I should do it with reiufl
ince ; because I think it serving a measure
unfavourable to liberty and the just au
hority of the state courts. As it is, 1
hall certainly not be a voluuteer in it. — J
.onhder the laws of Congress as at least a:
nuch the rules of judgment in the ftati
ourts, as the refpecfive (fate laws, aiu
lie citizens as much punishable in the ftati
ourts for their infraction. I have taken
ind fliall continue to take, all such mea
"ures as appear to me proper to bring ti
uftice in the proper courts of Pennfyl
ania. those people of whose violence it i
he obje£t of your million to enquire —
hit this is all that is to be expeOed of mi
mtil I am convinced that it is my duty ti
lo more.
I am, &c. &c.
ALEX. ADDISON.
[To be Continued."]
Zonth)uation of Mr. Bouiimfi Speech i>
the Hoije of Representatives, on Mon
day January 14, on the petitions of tht
officers of the late army forfurther com
pensation.
IN August 17&2, a Memorial from the
state of Pennsylvania, called loudly or
Congress for frefh exertions towards tht
ettlement of all accounts, and making
-rovifibn for the paying off the public debt.
It is fnppofrd the army took the hint, anc
n December following, a deputation ol
ield officers, with a strong memorial 01
behalf of the army, -waited on Congress.
The substance of their requefl was, iff.
ume present pny—2d. afettiement of theii
iccounts and security for their balance:.—
and 3dly. a commutation of their hall
pay for life ; as they found that till
measure was odious to their fellow citi
zens, and would prevent the happy inter
coiirfe they expected on their return :c
private life. The present pay and settle
ment ot' accounts were immediately pro
vided for, and as to security for the balan
ce ~ Congress resolved, "as to what re
lates to the providing of security for wliai
fliall be found due on such settlement.
that the troops of the United States, ir,
common with all the creditors of the Jame
have an undoubted right to expett fuel
security, and that Congress will make ev
ery effort in their power to obtain fron;
therefpeflive states substantial funds ade
quate to the objea, &c. &c " As to the
commutation, it was urged on the part oi
the army, that five or fix years full p ; >>
was but a reasonable sum to make good
t'icir furterings, iu>r only on account oi
the deficiency of their pay, but also on o
ther accounts, and that it would be 111011
agreeable to their fellow citizcns, than
that they (hould be pensioners for life.
Mr B. mentioned this from his memory,
which he said was confirmed by the jour
nals of of February j S3, when a
refutation preipofed, was prefaced in thi;
maimer : " whereas in consequence oi
li. v.iitljfnl fervces of officers of the army
of '*' e (J. S. and of their great Jufftrings.
'lot otily oh account of the dc ficiency oftueii
pay. but on other accounts, Congress Have
til : ivers i ef'uluticlis, promised them
halt p4y,"&c. &c. The want of monej
havi.rg been raised as an objeition againfl
;!i:. incuiure, the officers contended, (hat
they expected nothing more than certifi
cate s for their balances, in the fame man
ner as father creditors of the United State;
liad reteived. Congress finally determined
tonrant their request ; but to prevent the
army from alienating their certificates al
an under rate, and thereby affeiliijg the
public credit, it was propol'ed that the)
IhouM not be mode transferable. A:
fool 1 , as the delegation from thearmy were
mad. acquainted with this, they fpurnec
*t t'i* idea, and justly asked if they were
not iieimen—lf the balances were noi
;!uv- own property ; whether they hat
not t!it* fame right to elifpofe of their pro
:>ert> as tliey pleased, with every other ci
tizen? They therefore infiftcd to be pul
m a footing with every other creditoi
ivho had received certificates. The rea
oiling was too forcible to be anfwerec
*ith propriety, and therefore Congress or
he aid of March 1783, resolved, "Thai
uch officers &c. (hall be entitled to recciv<
lie amount of five years full pay in mo
ley or fecurlties on interest at 0 per cent.
>er annum, as Congress shall find mol
-onvenicut, Instead of the half pay promis
ed for life ; thejaid securities io beJuch a.
'ha,' ie given to other creditors if:he I 'hi
ed States, provided it is at the option of tin
'mei of the tejpeflive States to accept' 01
'efije the fame." " That with regard tc
lie retiring officers, the commutation, ii
accented by them, Jhall be in lieu of what
:net . may be now due, as well as wha.
•mgit hertnfter beebme due. <&i . £>l . Thi
:ommutation amounted to tc
J colonel, and 2,4oodollars to a captain.
Mr. Boudinot alledged his privity t(
his business, having been in Congress al
he time, and of course one of the partie'
:o the contrail. He also observed ver;
jartienlarly on this measure, originating
A'ith the army, and efpeciilly the negotia
ble property of the certificates : that ir
his tranfailion all former demands were
nvojved, and the express ftipulatioo ol
he army, and the afTent of Congress was
Jot to pay a fpecific sum in specie ; but tc
\ive such Jecurities for the balances aj
'hould be given to the other creditors of the
United States. Here then was no differ
;nce between creditors, all were put on ;
ooting, and every citizen who had made
idvances for the government, or hac
ought her battles, were considered equal
y entitled to the attention of government,
b'rom this time, the demands of the armj
*>ut on the face of a fettled debt, and re
juifitions were made to the different ftatei
or a fund, on which to found a certaint)
if payment at least of the interest fron
(■ear to year ; all the states but one ha
ving made the ncceffiry arrangements, th<
ilan was fruft rated, but many of the indi
vidual states made provision for, and die
lilnally pay the interest of 6 per cent foi
everal years—notwithstanding these par
tial payment*, the- public credit fufferec
much, and among other causes, the greal
number of these negotiable fecuiitie:
brought to market, was not the least. The
;liftreiles of some, the different objeits of
pursuits of others which required capitals;
the debrs of others which railed for pay
ment as soon as the war was over, and [lit
tears of others for the fate of the govern
ment, all conspired to bring on a general
bankruptcy. These securities fell fron,
6s tel. to 2s <id. in the pound, and trans
fers were as common as any other mer
chandize. The public fears and the uni
v erf al complaint of creditors finally brought
about a ch.-nge of the government, and
the new conflitution was formed; in which
two material articles applied to all credi
tors—one that the new government was tc
be liable for (he debts of the old; —and
another, that all the contrails fliould be
carried into ei'.eoi agreeably to the terms oi
them. The old Congress had so far com -
plieel with their engagements as to give the
securities required by the contrail, and tc
apply to the individual slates for the fund:
promised. The new government a
the earnest request of her creditors, turn
ed an early attention to the public debt.
Site found the contrails were With the
original creditor, bearer, or assignee.—
The holder was equally a party to the con-
[Total No. 133.]
trail, and demanded the whole debt, with
out regard to the film paid for it to the o
riginal holder ; on the other hand many
contended for the right of the firft credi
tor aSan equitable demand to the furpliu
(or at least apart of it) after paying the
principal and interest of the sum for which
it was transferred. To this it wasanfwer
ed, that Congress could not consider them
selves as a court of law or equity to de
tei mine these claims. Fhey were bound
to A. B. or bearer, or h : s assignee. The
holder of the evidence of the public debt,
could alone, in law or equity, give adif
chargeofthe debt. That it \vould be un
conftitntional to destroy the contraa of
the parlies, when made bona fide, and it
was agreed that fraud could vitiate every
contract, for which the courts of jultice
were adequate—therefore it was, that all
difcnmiiKition was refilled, firft as a mat
ter without the jurifdiaion of Conorcfs ;
fecondly,as a matterunjuft on the princi
ple of a fair contraa, made on the risque
to be run ; and lalHy, as impraai cable in
its very nature. In wonfequence of this,
proportions were made to the holders of
the public securities, on the principles of
the lundmg system ; the fubttance of which
were, that as the government in its infan
cy could not embrace a discharge of the
debts, or indeed a payment of full inte
rest, without rifquing the public credit as
heretofore, and by this means again expo
ling the creditor to loss ; it was therefore
advisable to new modify the debt, so that
the creditor fhonldgive up 3 per cent, upon
Jie intcreft, and 2 per cent. 011 the princi
pal tor 10 year*, for which he (hould re
ceive an equivalent in the following man-
P er • I* Wiw a very reasonable conjecture
111 cafe the new government succeeded
and public credit was restored, that inrer
eit would fall in 5 years to 5 percent,
and in 10 years :o 4 per cent—in which
cafe Congrrfs ruigh;, by r.v w loams, at that
rate of interest, pay off the whole national
debt ; but on the present plan, (lie would
fccure to the holder full 4 per cent, on the
principal for jo year*, and afterwards 6
pei cent for a certain number of years x
011 terms, with three percent on the in -
terelr, let the con mon rate of interest be
what it might. 1 his was accepted by the
ci editor as a reasonable equivalent, and
the debt was fublcribed.
[The remainder in oLr next:)
*' ■■■■
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
PARIS, Nov. 16<
The chancer of the National AflVmbly
of France, under which the public fpiric
made Inch a rapid progress, and the nation
marched with giant strides tow ards a re
publican fyltem, will be differently e(limi
ted, according to the diverlity of passions,
interefU and opinions. Royalty will con
sider it as an aflembly of men, eonftant ene
mies to its idol, and who finer their firfk
fitting to the moment of their feparatiort
have tacitly undermined the throne, which
they seemed to refpea with confHtutwnal
attention. Anarchy will represent it as a
colleaion of timid or corrupted deputies
who facrificed the people to the court, and
liberty to the constitution. Pure, but en
lightened patriotism, which weighs neither
cirCumstances nor charaaers, will consider
it as a wavering aflembly, deflitute of
pi irtciples : an aflembly which has in turns
attacked the court and servilely ftibmimd
to it; lhaken the constitution and endea
voured to maintain it; and sometimes fa
voured, and sometimes checked the pro
gress of the public spirit. But the patriot
plnlofopher. the true republican, who ap
preciates efforts according to circumstan
ces, and judges according to the
means employed to produce them w ill
compare what the National AfTeinbly ha*
done, with what it might have done and
without palliating its faults, or veiling its
errors, will declare, that it has defer" ed
well of its country, becaufeit had need of
a second revolution to oveithrow a trea
cherous court; it was it that excited, fo
mented, and brought to maturity that re-r
volution—ln short, when poflerity (hall re
view the proceedings of this aflembly, it
will hehold—not that it has overturned a
constitutional church, built on the ruins of
national worfliip; that it has eftabliflied
tlivotce j that it has defti oycd the odious
diflinflion which prevailed between the
white mon and his brown or black fellow
citizen; that .t ordered the property ot*
tlx emigrant, to be fold in (mail ly;s ;commons to be divided ; that it pulled j t
down the aristocratic barrier between t
frenchman and Frenchman, by the title of
nttive citizen ; that it has fvvorn to hate [
and combat kings and royalty ; that it de- t
dared with courage, and supported with ]
firmnefs a war against the hoiife of Auf- ;
tria, the cruel enemy of the liberty ct Eu- |
rope, and the scourge of mankind ; ;-nd ]
lastly, that hard prclieci between despotism
attempting to recover its strength, and a- |
narchy which wiliicd to succeed, it has re
stored entire, and even considerably aug- i
mentrd the depolit'of national liberty.
.In France declaring war against the com
bined powers, there seems to have been a
powerful consideration among the advo
c--?s of that meaCure, which was not felt
by the oppolite party. To convince all
Frenchmen of the perfidy ol the court, it
was necessary to put it to a great trial, and ,
this trial was the war against AJlllria —
Trancp has been Caved only by exposing
ille treachery of the court. V> ithout a
war, neither La Fayette, nor Louis, would
have completely unnrafked ; without
a war, Frr.nce would not have been a re
public; rnd it is even doubtful whether
it would have existed twenty years.
The follow iig is an rxtratt of a letter
written by an Englishman, serving in the
army under Gen. Kellerman, to hisfriends
rt home : — "As I Jiave lived for sometime
Tino-ic; the fj'diersof the French armies, I
can speak with some certainty of their o
pinions. The ofHcers of the higher rank
; , re republicans from principle ; how. the
reft procured their knowledge, I know
not, but most probably in the manner I
f'aall pi*efjntly explain. The faff, howe
ver, is, that from what I have fecn, and
from all the information I can procure,
the army is, in the ftrifteft ferfe of the
word, republican. And alrho' Mr. Burke
lias amused himfelf with their civic festi
vals, and their occasional relaxations from
military difciplitic, he will find, fliould any
day as favorable as the 20th of September
r.rrive, more willing obedience and more
vign-pus a£tio:i, than he will meet with in
the best difciplin;d troops of the molt mi
litary despot. A French foldicr knows
why he fights—a Prussian cannot conjec
ture ; and it is almifing to behold the
tranfportt of those who have no ties cf
kindred in their own country, when they
hear of the advantages that attend them in
this, and pray to be retained in the French
service. It was a stroke of policy to hold
out to the soldiers of the enemy the differ
ences in their refpeftive (ituations, with
those of the French Surely no men con
fultshis intere'l who can prefer three foils
r. day and 20 coups de Into" (strokes of a
c udgel) to three times the pay and up
wards, and-where no fiich military cxer
cife, of canes and clidgels, is allowed.—
"Where this i 3 known, it has had all the ef
fect that could be wifiied—it wants only to
be generally known to humble all the ty
rants of Europe. If it be allied, why, con
trary to all military maxims, soldiers are
fuffered to be ialtruttcd r.nd to rcafon ?—
the answer is, that knowledge and thelove
of liberty make men better citizens, and
consequently better defenders of the rights
of men : but if you speak of the automata,
(men-machines; of despots, Mr. Burke
certainly is in the right—it is better that
they be ignorant, and consequently slaves.
"With men thus inftruited in the rights of
men, you will soon fee republican generals
drive before them those enslaved lirt ds of
human beings which tyrants drag into their
service; and having now (what Archi
medes wanted) Jomething firm to iiand
upon, (the knowledge of the rights of
man) depend upon it, the whole -world will
Jhortly be moved Q
Africa has in all ages been renowned for
the cruelty and savage ferocity of its des
potic tyrants ; a convincing proof that bru
tal ignorance and despotism in all times
and.countries go together. The former
accounts received are now fully confirm
ed, that that part of Africa lying between
the rivers Gambia and Senegal, has expe
rienced in the fame month with France, a
revolution which flill continues, and
" which makes the different kings of those
countries to be 110 longer kings." Wea
ried with oppression and tyranny, and, a
bove all, the poor negroes having at last
discovered that their kings were mutually
setting the different nations at war merely
for the fake of making prisoners, to be
fold to the. European plantations in the
Weft-Indies, they revolted, cut a vast
number of their petty sovereigns to pieces,
and, in some fort, established something
like popular governments.
Vienna, Oft. 27. It is now decided
that the war against France is to be conti
nued next year. The provinces, however,
are not to be taxed. The hereditary states
of the empire have engaged to supply the
Emperor with 40,000 recruits, which are
to be begun to be levied in November.
London, Nov. 14. The battle fought
between the French and Auftrians, before
Mons, was one of the molt bloody, and
well fought in history. The event of this
battle will probably end in the conquest of
the whole pi ovince of Brabant. The Au
strian government has most to fear from
t he spirit of insurrection that prevails
t hroughout the Netherlands—as it has been
ong known to be a certain fact, that the
inhabitants waited only for the invasion of
the French to throw off their fubniiluon to p
the house of Anitria. i!
Home Tooke would certainly have
been defied to a feat in the French Nan
tional Convention, with his friend Mr. 11
Paine, only that the French have an utter a
averiion to aprieft, and citizen Too'ce is '
(till in holy orders, tho his hair is tied, his t
hat cocked, and his coat brown. !
M. Gregoire was elected President of f
the National Convention on the 16th of i
November —Gen. Duinourier's let er to 1:
the National Convention, was read on the r
fame day. It is dateu Brussels, Nov. 14, f
and relates that previous to the surrender 1'
of that place, he had a battle of fix hours (
against an equal force. Many fell on both c
lides, but the invincible spirit of liberty, j
with the immense superiority of the repub- j r
lican artillery, carried all before it. He ; 1
entered Brussels triumphant; and no soon- ! 1
er had he arrived than 15C0 deserters came 1
over to him—"lt is my determination 1
(fays Eumourier) to finifli the deftruf'.' <
of the Austrian army." General Vale'ice 1
has taken Charleroy, a Strong to-.vn in"the !
province of Namur, in the Austrian Ne- <
therlarids—Gen. Labourdconaye announ- f
cod in a letter to the Convention, dated S
Nov. ifc, that he expected to take poffef-j <
,'fion of Antwerp next day. The enefr.io | '
forces had already filed oiFfmiii that qirar- j 1
ter, expecting an attack, and a confidcra- j !
ble part of their baggage had been taker. — j i
the fame general had Sent a battalion to 1 :
take poffefllon of Bruges and Oftend—a j
French army of thirty tboufand men were
to march 011 the ift of December from
Perpignan to Toulon, to guard that part
of the Couth coast of the republic, and in
cafe of any hoitile difpefition on the part
of Spain, to enter Catalonia, penetrate to
Madrid, and exterminate the tyranny of
priests and kings in that country—Two
millions of affgnats were redeemed and
burned at tarisonNov. ißth—T"heFrench
emigrants were sneaking home in abun
dance. to throw themselves upon the mer
cy of their country.
After the retreat of the remain's of the
Austrian army from Thionville, one of the
officers received a letter from a lady of his
acquaintance at Vienna, requesting to be
informed, how it was pofiiLle, that any for
tification could te attacked ell night long
without Jurrendering !
For the National Gazette.
Remarks on the Indian War.
[Continued from No. 130.]
j VyHEN I fubferibed my last, I deigned
" to point out the way, to civilize the 111-
■ dians, without which, no lasting peace can
be expettcd ; but a second thought render
-1 <*) it previously necessary to make some re
marks on STANDING ARMIES.
If any thing could induce me to bear
• arms against bad laws, it would be to op
- pose a /landing army in time of peace.
■ There c ould be no object in such mesffures,
I but to enforce bad laws, for good ones can
> never be offensive to a republic. This re
, mark I thought necessary, left some peo
: pie might think me friendly to Standing ar
t mies; or that I was pleased with war. No
man abhors it more than myfelf, but of
f two evils, I choose the least. I could re
> late some Indian murders, marked with fa
f vage barbarity, that would uitiect an ada
• mantine heart, and would excite the most
■ pacific disposition to feck recirefs; but this
1 at present I forbear, as I do not wifli to
! open old wounds, but to prevent frelh ones.
I There is one mistake, which seems pre
valent refpefti.ng the use of a franding ar^
- m y—it is frequently mentioned that they
• are to cover the frontiers. I presume the
■ men who mention this, are strangers to the
> geography of the country, or else they make
• little use of common sense : for once, it
■ may not be amiss to bring the river Ohio
1 nearer. We will suppose the Delaware to
be Ohio, and Pennfyfvania to be the Weft
l ern Territory. Svppofe a fort built at
I Eaflon, at the forks of Delaware, another
• where Philadelphia stands; another at New
Castle. Tliefe forts are to cover all the state
ofjerfey. We will suppose Congress fitting
: at New-York—a debate is introduced re
' fpeiting the distribution of the army, to co
' ver the frontiers. The geography being well
' known, a member arises & aiferts that it is
? an absurdity to talk of covering all the state
: of Jersey from the incursions of the Indians
1 by these forts, for the chasms are so great,
; that they may pass and re-pass without any
possibility of intercepting them. This is a
1 plain rcprefentation of the distribution of
- the army at Ohio. One fort is at Venango,
, another at Pittsburgh ; another at Mulkin
s gum; another between the Miamie's ; an
? other at the Falls : Shall these forts cover
? more than fix hundred miles?—ha! ha! ha!
&c. This is as good an answer as fuclifol
t ly deserves. It is surprising that men of
: sense can please themselves with idle fan-
I cies. Such measures as these can be of 110
s use except to create disquietude in the
f minds of the good people of the United
- States. Our business is to obtain peace
II with the Indians, upon a rational founda
s tion ; and there is no other way eligible but
n to fix a standing army near Detroit, and
e there to remain as long as necefiary ; and
fno longer. lam perftiaded that all other
plans will be as useless as to keep the army c
in Philadelphia. r
Should our rulers perlift in their prefect t
mode of operation against the Indians, they I
may spend one million of dollars in vain, t
.md worle than in vain, for .another blun- f
der may throw the nation into such a rage, j
that no man can tell tile consequences. We t
fliould lose no time, in collecting all our c
force on Lake Erie : But fliould we be so i
unhappy as to have a number of faint- i
hearted men in Congrcfs, who would har- f
rangue them in long speeches, to alarm their j
fears about a war witii England ; with firm- (
ness of mind such men ought to be expelled (
Congress as cowards or traitors, and dif- t
qualified to represent the United States. 1
! I have already said, England is *111 no ca- 1
| pacity to engage in war with 11s—She will <
; have work enough atTiome. The spirit of c
[freedom is in every part of the kingdom. (
Ireland will soon be a republic—The whole
world is kindling into a flame to remove i
defpotiftn, and erase itfrom the foundation, i
But fliould our measures / produce war with 1
England, what reason have we to be afraid 1
of them or any other nation ? This fuppo- ;
fed event fliould not deter our operations a
single hour ; for if they war with us, they ;
j cannot oppose France—and England mult :
, know, when the republic of Franee is eftab
' lifhed, king-craft is at an end in-Europe.
Should England be unwise enough to draw
her sword against us, there would be an end
to the kingdom.
If wcwiflifi'er to put an end to the war, 1
| row is the very time, because neither Eng
land nor Spain can oppose us—their own
affairs being so very critical, and no plan
proinifcs this desired object, but that now
recommended ; for this will place us in the '
heart of the India#-country, without any
danger of a defeat by the way. There has
bptn much said in Congrcfs about militia
being preferable to a regular army in fight
ing Indians—l am somewhat different in
sentiments to the gentlemen on both (ides
of the question. In our prcfent iituatiott,
militia is a mere viflon of fancy, and regu
lar troops a dead weight, if the operations
fhoukl be directed as in time past. On the
; plan proposed, we (hall never be obliged to
■ light, only when we please—On the plan
hitherto proposed, we have been obliged to
fight when and where our enemies pleased
—the confequeuce has been fhaineftil de
feats ; and it is probable this may be the
cafe again. Should the Indians fee them
selves unable to beat us, they would never
fight, To that the old plan Mill issue in do
ing nothing, or worse than nothing : but
fliould our operations be changed, we fliall
be in no danger of a defeat, and perhaps
never fight, and obtain peace. I do not
1 mean, when we are seated near Detroit,
• that we fliould immediately march out into
1 the country to fight Indians. No—we
■ (hould take our time to make excursions,
■ and never make them, but when our ene
mies are least prepared to oppose them.
r Hitherto our operations have been wrong,
- for we have given them notice of our in
• tentions, and time to collect all their force,
? in a season when game is good, and they
3 can fupplythemfelves with piovilions. Our
- excuriions fliould be sudden, early in the
- spring, and then in vain v. <*uld they try to I
- escape our force : we may take whole
1 towns prisoners, with loss of few lives. It I
i may be neceflary to make a ihe\v of an in
- vafion from the quarter of Kentucky, but
- the Lake is the main obje£l.
I have given my sentiments freely—l am
' no party man—l wilh all men well—My
5 motive of writing is pure philanthropy—l
3 hope the time is coming when " Nations
• fliall learn war no more."
DAVID JONES.
Philadelphia County, Jan. 31.
y
e ___
e To the Editor of the National Gazette,
e .
c By giving this a place in yot.r Paper you
0 will oblige a SubJ criber, a;. d
0 An American.
New-Jersey, Feb. 4, 1793.
t '
r ' | 'HE Daily Adveitifer of Saturday the
< I 2d inft. contained a letter from Mon
e Cieur Le Brtiti, of France, addressed to COll
- grefs, relative to arrearages due the heirs
- of Capt. Le Brun, late of Gen. Armand's
- legion, as well as pay due other officers of
1 the French nation, who served with repu
s tation in the armies of the United States in
e the late war against Great-Britain.
s Every American who reads that letter,
, and poflefies a proper pride and regard for
y justice, must blujli at the inattention and in
a gratitude of his country towards those gal
s lant and generous officers, who left their
i, native foil when they enjoyed peace and
- ease, and embarked for this then land of
- blood andflaughter, to assist, protest andde
r fend us from the tyranny of arbitrary arif
-1 tocrats —Such were the men by whose aid
- America obtained a glorious peace, and be
'f came a free and independent republic; and
- who, to our extreme disgrace.are the fub
o jest of the importunate and affecting letter
e from Monlieur Le Brun, requesting and
d imploring the government of the United
e States to relieve the distresses and want* of
those more than patriots, and their fami
it lies, by a discharge of the pittance ftipulat
d ed to be paid them in Paris, as fpecified by
d their refpeftive certificates. I confefs not
r to know much of the state of the public
creditors, or the application of the monies
recctved from the revenues and loans ob
tained by the general government; nor do
I believe any three men in the rdminiflra
tion, have a competent knowledge of the
subject : but I was led tofuppofe that Con
gress had made provificn for the payment of
the claims of those meritorious officers, cut
of the sums of money borowed in Holland,
&c. Why it has not been done, is not only
wonderful, but rfifgraceful. Is it that the
fame facrifice should be made by these ori
ginal creditors, as was. made here by the
companions of their toils ; cur own offi
cers and soldiers, who from necefiity fold
their certificates for one tenth of their va
lue ? perhaps at this moment, from the
fame causes and reverse of fortune, the
claims of those officers of France are felling,
or have been fold, at one half or one fourth
of their nominal value, to some avaricious
Jew, broker, or [peculator, whilst we can
i'ee such characters here drawing from our
funds, a full interefl in actual specie on
their 6 and 3 per cents, for debts purchased
by them at 2s. £d. in the pound from ori
ginal creditors.
For shame ye people of America—Ye le
gislators—ye prefidenr—ye fecretarie?—ye
foreign minifler?—and all ye other depart
ments who may be,or have been blameable
in this business; is it thus you treat your
real friends and allies ; whose blood anct_<
treasure was ready to be offered at any mo
ment for your fafety, w hen you were beset
by Vandals, mercenaries,and heal! 3 of prey,
in the shape of men ?
" I\aine it not in Cath, speak not of it in
the flreets of AjVelan."
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Friday, Feb. 1.
The letter received yesterday from the
Senate, containing a representation from
M. le Brun, at Ccutancesin France, in be
half of the heirs of a French officer, who
served in the armies of the United States,
complaining that his annual compeufation
has not been received forfeveral years past,
was read, and referred to the Secretary of
the Treasury.
The amended bill from the Senate, for
regulating the value of foreign coins, &c.
was agreed to by the house.
After reading and referring a petition,
the amendments-to the bill for promoting
the ufeful arts, were taken into considera
tion—Several amendments were made and
agreed to, particularly one, restricting the
benefits of the patent-law to citizens of
the United Sta/es, in order to prevent fo
reigners from obtaining patents in this
country for inventions for which patents
have already been obtained in Europe—
The bill was ordered to be engrofied for a
third reading.
The house then, in committee of the
whole, took up the amendments of the
, Senate to the hill for regulating claims to
, invalid pensions—aster i'ome discussion, and
agreeing to two amendments, the commit
tee rose and reported accordingly : which
report the lionfe adopted.
A petition was read, from James Mont
gomery, captain of the revenue cutter, fta
-1 tioned in the Bay of Delaware, praying
, increase of pay for hiinielf and erew—re
ferred to the Secretary of the Treasury.
5 A petition was lead, from the manufac
turers of cordage, twine, &c. of Philadel
phia, praying additional duties to be laid
on the importation of those articles—re
ferred to the feleft committee on the R. I.
(Providence) petition of a limilar nature.
MbndAY, Feb. 4.
1 Several petitions having been read, and
referred—The ehyvofled billforpromoting
the ufeful arts was read, and lent to the
Senate for toncurrence —By this bill, the
fee for a patent is fixed ;.t 30
: every copy sheet of ico words 20 cents—
■ for every copy of a drawing, 2 dollars.
Air. Smith, then, moved for appointing
s a committee to confer with a committee
s from the Senate 011 filing a mode of count
s ing the ballots for President and Vice
■ President on Wednesday the 13th inft.—
1 Also, for appointing a committee to bring
in a bill to fpecify their salaries from March
. 4, J 793-
r A report of the Secretary of the Trea
- fury was read cn the petition of A. C.
- Hanfon, praying conpenfation for travel
r ling expences as judge, in behalf of the U
-1 nited States for fettling a disputed claim
f between the states of South-Carolina am'.
- Georgia—Mr. Mercer offered a refolutjpl,
- in fubltan.ee, that he be allowed fix dollars
:! per day—referred to a feleft committee.
A letter was read from the Secretary of
J the Treasury, inclosing a statement refer
- 1 ing to the lail of the resolutions brought
r forward by Mr. Giles relative to the defi
.l ciencies and sums of public money not ac
-1 counted for—sco copies ordered to be
f printed.
The bill from the Senate refpefting fu
gitives from jufllce, and servants from their
y matters, was then taken up, one amend
t ment made and agreed to, and the bill laid
c over for a third reading,PHIL A D ELPHI A.
February 6.
" There 15 a letter in town, re-ceived yef
terdayby a French gentleman from Mar
seilles, which mrntioni that the city ot"Rom™
has furrcndered to the army of the French,
commanded by 1 ?n-eral Aifelm ; he ad
vanced fj rnVdly, that hi; Hoiinefs could
not eftVftuate his escape, mid ha; been take;;
prisoner. Particular details of this new
conquest r.re notexp-effid, but we hope! to
be able Too i to give full information about
it, haviuT the ftrongert grounds to think
that thisvc-y interesting intelligence, will
be authenticated in a few days. Tin
fame letter mention* rlfo that Holland
has acknowledged the sovereignty of the
Republic of F • ince—and that the king ol
P'ruflia hirnfelf is ready to follow the ex
ample."
The following Stems of intelligence ar?
said to have come to hand by the Frencl
Packet, lately arrived at New-York
When General Dumoutfer took BrnfTels.
he also became master of /000 Aullriar
military prisoners, r.nd wa-joined by ljoc
deserter:—the King ofPruflia had acknow
ledged the independence of the French re
public—and all the Papal Yerritdry nf I tab
was in a fair way of (hiring the fate of Sa
voy, &e.- X. B. The French Packet lef
L'Orient the fir ft of December.
Five hundred dollars reward are offeree
by several merchants of Baltimore, to an;
person or persons, who will secure the per
son that robbed the Eastern mail some day
since.
On the 27th and 28th of December the;
had the greatest fall of snow about Augusta
in Georgia, ever seen there by the oldef
inhabitants. Jt was one foot deep on thi
level, and was between three and four day:
in wafting. There were some spots of i
yet remaining on New-Year's day, ir
places covered from the fun.
The Agricutural Society of New-York
have ordered a number of plough shares tc
be made of cast-iron, it having been fug
gefted that these are by far more durablt
than the common fort made of wrough
iron.
A fifhery for porpoises is now eftablifhec
at the east end of Long-Ifl?.nd. Beside
the oil, the skin . of these animals are fount
to be most excellent for boot legs, and up
per flioe-leather.
" By a gentleman of refpeclability, fron
Whites-Town, we have received the im
portant information, that His Serene High
uefs, 'his ''onnlc-, b:;' bee
graciously pltafei, to open a free paflagt
into the territoriespf the United States, bj
Ofwego into Ontario, it is said for the pur
pose of facilitating the pafTage of settler
from the United States into his Majefiy*
dominions."
" The despots of the prefe.nt day appea;
to be advancing with rapid strides, blind
fold to their own deftruftion. Fivi
hundred New-England families, fcatteret
throughout the settlements of Canada, an<
difleminating their republican idt?as, woulc
of itfelf be productive of the independenci
of Canada, in a few years, admitting no 0
ther cauj: exifled."
" For this eighteen months past it ha
been predicted, that the success of Franc*
would give us the Western Ports : Prefen
appearances fully juftify the calculation.—
The success of France will inevitably pro
cluce a revolution in England—and a revo
lution in England will inevitably give u
the Ports—Ca-ira,"
[Albany Regifler-]
SUDDEN DEATH AT BOSTON.
Died, (at Olympia) after a few weekso
existence, the offspring of an ariftocratica
Genius, LE COURIER DE L'UNIVERS
The short time of its life was spent in ;
continual fit of the Liberty-phobia, a difbr
tier very uncommon in this country. Tin
remains are to be entombed with his ancef
tors, at Guadaloupe—Requie/cat in pace
[Bojlou Ind. Chron.~\
On Monday last the Senate of the Uni
ted States negatived the bill (fentfrom th<
House of Reprcfeiitatiycs on Monday Ja
nuary 2Stli for concurrence) for the af
fumpcion of the balances of the state debts
17 to ri
A member of the old American Com
pany of Comedians, in a late dispute
with one of the managers at New-York,
declared himfelf ''a Democrat and
that " he was determined to revercnce 110
man a whit the more for being arrayed in
regal robes."—When we fee gentlemen of
the sock and bll skin throwing aside, and
profefiing a total disregard for the gew
gaws of royalty, we may fairly conclude
the -wholefarce to be nearly at an end.
M. Roland, the French minister for the
home department, being allied his opinion
on the propriety of using the term Citizen,
in the familiar addrefies of the fubjefts 01
their republic to each other, proposed tc
fubftitutethe appellation ps Fellow-Citi
zen, as exprefiive of more perfect equalit}
He then observed, that too many excepti
ons are neceffarv to be inade, for either
one or the other of these appellations ev;r fu
c~rno into very general vife—for inltancc
(said he) you cannot, nor ought not to call
a slave fellow-citizen—nor those who
havr not resided among us for a certain pe
riod—nor him who by fuffeflhg an ignomi
nio is punishment has forfeited his right to
citizenship—nor madmen ; any more than
numerous oilier characters that might be
named—whole crimes, principles, morals,
and conduct, render them unworthy.of the
name—he' therefore chooses using the old
inlignificant term of Mr. rather than pro
faningthe truly hoifoura'ole term Citizen,
by applying it (as frequently m«ll be done,
if ufed,)to undeserving characters.
There has been recently publilhed at
Paris, a hew work, entitled, The Geogra
phy of France, according to the new mode
of divifjons, departments, &c. with the
natural hiltory of each, and the political
tiftory of the revolution in that country.
The following lilt of the artillery cap
aired 'by the French at Mons, appears in a
Paris paper—97 brass cannon, 19 brass
mortars. 14 bed-mortars— 107 iron can
non—bullets of different sizes innumera
ble, and at the molt moderate computation
jpwards of jqo.ooo—5000 bombs—l 437
ire arms, in the belt order—tents, swords,
"abres and pistols by thousands.
The lalt accounts from Guadalonpc fay,
:h'at M. Rochambeau was daily expectei 1
rom leeward with conliderable land and
"ea forces to reinstate good order in thai
(land and Martinico. A fleet was alft
lourly looked for from France, to assist ir
Jtfefting the fame object—The aristocrat:
ivere flying from both islands, in all direc
:ions.
" Itisevident (fays a Bolton papcr)fron
:very itateroent, that millions are expend
»d on the difgraceful bulinefs of deftroyinj
sur Indian brethren of the weflern terri
:ory, to acquire lands we have no right
o, and to fettle " I'ilWs" merely to gra
ify ambitious individuals, to have theii
lames enrolled as the Lords of the mc>lor.
Mtho' Mr. Steele's motion tor reducinc
he war eftablifliment was loft, yet thai
>atriot has this consolation, that if his mo
ion were to be decided upon by the peo
ple, he woukl have nearly an unanimou:
'ote in his favour.
Thursday, the 24th of January, was ce
ebrated in Bolton as a day of feftivity, tc
rommemorate the fuccelfe of the Frencli
lation in eftablifhingagovernmentofZ<z;y.
md equal liberty, and not of men. The
lawn of the day was v.lhered in by a faiuK
)f cannon—at 11 o'clock A. M. an OX
levoted as an offering on the occasion , ha
,'mg been roalted entire on tin* preceding
•ifht) W43 prepared for exhibition —a vnli
jroceffion was then formed, of citizens 01
.•arious denominations.preceding the Ox
•viiich weighed or.e thousand weight, ele
cted about 20 feet oil a car drawn by i<
:legant horfee, and ornamented with rib
011s, the republican flag of France, that oi
;he United States, &e. —800 loaves ol
bread fallowed in a cart drawn by 6 hor
es, decorated—a hogfliead of punch alft
Jrawn by 6 horses, with each horse a coll
ector drelfed in white.—After variou;
bther ceremonies, the entertainment be
ran, continued with a flow of good hu
nour, and when it was Over, the remain
jf the bread were lent to the jail.—lll tin
ifternoon another procefliun took place
uhich concluded with an elegant enter
tainment at which 300 persons partook
the lieut. governor S. Adapts acting a
President ; a variety of toalts were dranl
on this occasion, of which we lhall % onl;
mention one— 44 The Republic of f ranee;'
May this rising luminary iticreafe in fplen
dour, until not a star of monarchy lhali
visible in the political hemisphere !"—1;
i]:ms —Proceflions and entertainments wen
also made in Charleftown on the lame daj
and occasion.
The appellation Citizen, having imiver
fally taken place in the town of Boston, ii
refpeit to the address of the male part oi tht
inhabitants, it appears to be a matter oi
110 foiall difficulty among them how to ft
vr.iuize the word, so as to have an equally
agreeable found. The word commonly
adopted among them is Citejs. This has
been found fault with by other , who preset
Ci-jeJtc for this p!r.in reason, that Cites
means only a city woman in contrhdiftin&i
----011 to a country woman. —Others again lee
no impropriety inapplying the appellation
Citizen to either sex, as beinganoun of the
common gender. Perhaps the matter
might be coinpromifed by flyling the men
:its, and the v. omin citizens.
In the late proceflions at Bolton (we are
informed) the ox, was a type of ariflocra
:y: his gaudy decorations represented
TITLES, and the animalitfelf was under -
(lood to be facrificed 011 the altar of demo
cracy, as a peace offering to liberty and
--•-quality.—One of the molt plealyig cir
cumltances we have to record 011 the
occaiion of this feftival.is, that eight of the
citizens, animated with the conlideration
that virtue and liberty are about to-revifit
this earth, made a contribution to relieve
from the gloomy inclofure of a prison,
eight of their fellow citizens who were
confined for the trifling sim of twelve
There appeared some impropriety (fays
a letter from Bolton) in demolilhing an
ox, as the type of ariltocracy, when it was
well known, there were many scores of
aristocrats running at large in the llreets,
much more culpable the innocent
creature whose life was facrificed on this
f' ftival occasion.
Il:ficdious on the Rngltjh Revolution of
1688, and on that of trance on the 10th of
Augujt, 1792. By M. Condorcet.
" THE Revolution of England in 1688,
compared wiih the Revolution of France in
;-92, presents in the motives which occa
ioned thein and the principles by which
they were directed, a parallel which, not
ivithftanding the difference of the times.
:lle circuinftances and the state of know
edge, proves that the cause of the Frenct
s exactly the fame as that of the Englifl
latifln ; and, indeed, of all nations, that ar«
,1• that have conceived the hope of becom
ing free.
• l James 11. was the constitutional king,
ike Louis XVI. It was the national will,
rwithltanding the jail repugnance of the
rifM-ls of freedom, by which James fue
led to his brother : The fear ot civil
feerd was superior to that of a Papill
.'ng, infatuated with those i<ie;'.3 of abfo
ut;e authority which had been so fatal tc
pliarles I. Actuated by the fame motives,
:,ic will of the people seated Louis XVI.
.11 the throne, in despite of the dangers tc
tvhich freedom mult be exposed by his re
jret for his former power.
"Todeflroy the rights of the Epglifn
James 11. employed corrupt judges, ant
lie servile complaisance of partial autho
rities. He had twocouncib ; the one pub
ic, which with reserve aided his projects o]
lfivpation ; the other private, which for
:ed him rashly to haiten the efiabll/bment oi
jopery and tyranny.
" Louis XVI. in like manner, had two
:ouncils ; the one moderate, which endea
vored to delfroy freedom by the aid ot the
:onftitutioli ; the other, more eager, pre
jared means to deliver up the people so tie
•migrants, and France to foreign armies.
" Louis XVI. had like wife fought ufeful
illies in the court's of juttice,and the direc
orie3 of departments.
"James 11. had protected the parliament,
ifter having deceived it by falfe promifej.
jouis XVI. not possessing this dangeroris
>rivil:ge, attained the fame end by cor
upting the legislative body, and preventing
my constant majority from being formed.
"James 11. provided a fleet and an ar
ny, of which he believed hinifelf the maf
:tr. Louis XVI. had secretly formed a
roop of satellites, who had fold themselves
o his cause, and thought himfelf sure of a
jowerfwl support in the national guard and
he army.
" James was secretly connefled with Louis
JCIVth whom the EngHlh nation regarded
is its molt dangerous enemy. The Empe
-or and the King of Prussia, made war on
France, in the name and for the support oi
Louis XVI. and the means of defence,
which the nation bellowed with prodigali
ty, were half annihilated by parting through
the hands of the King and his minilterj.
" Both thought themselves certain oi
power fufficient to suppress freedom, and
joth imagined they had deceived the peo
ple t instead of which, they did but miitu
lliy convince all clear-lighted citizens oi
the necellity of a new revolution.
" The two nations were not preclfcly in
the fame lituation. In England the body
of the people, difcontenred, angry, but ter
rified by the recent rccollcftion of the civil
wars, and benumbed by the corrupt reign
of Charles 11. wasdifpofed to embrace that
revolution, which they were incapable to
eft* ct. The parliament was not convoked,
an'd the friends of liberty were without a
support. Hence it was necessary to call in
ihe Prince of Orange to their aid, who, by
a lingular concatenation oi events, had con
nected his personal interelt with that of the
Englith nation.
" William, who found 110 oppolitlon 011
liis palTage from the Englilh tleet, came at
:he head of a Dutch army. James was a
jandoned by his troops, fled, was brought
jack to London, and left it by order of his
ron-in-law, who appointed a place to which
lie;was permitted to retire. He elcaped a
ecoiid time, and William did not endeavour
:o impede his flight.
" In France the people, to whom free
dom was a new enjoyment, and the love of
equality a real pallion, could not, nndif
turbed, fee themselves threatened by plot.-
which they could not discover, but the fear
ful proofs of which were incefl'antly before
their eyes.
" They addrelTed their
and were heard ; but a great number of
these representatives, servilely attached to
the letter of theconftitution they had sworn
to maintain, beheld with a kind of terror
those meatuses which every day became
more feniibly lieceflary, but which required
a bolder interpretation of the constitution.
The citizens, therefore, imagined them
selves obliged to take the power into their
own hands.
" The King fled for an asylum to the Na
tional Alfembly ; yet foreign troops, pre
served contrary to law, and united to the
chiefs and the menials of the conspiracy,
fired from the palace of the TliuiUeries 011
the citizens, at the very moment that they
were reciprocally interchanging exprelTions
of peace and good will.
" The palace was forced, the conspira
tors and their soldiers put to flight, and
there then only remained citizens who had
but one opinion, and the representatives of
those citizens, whose authority was refpe£t
ed, and among whom public confidence,
which preceding events had but suspended,
might once again find a central point of ac
tion.
" Here every circumftartce gives the ad
vantage to the French nation."
[To be continued. ]
[From the Gazette of the United States of
February 2.J
WHILE Liberty and Equality, Paine
and the Rights of Man, are all the rage at
the eafhvard, we hear with pleasure that
Qur southern brethren are not far behind
them; not even a Mr. is admitted to pre
cede a name at the prefen: day—while
their fable fellow-creatures are frequently
jddrefFed, " Citizen Ca:far," or "Citizen
Pompey, clean my boots, &c. &c." This
may be well—but to hear the Aiiaioncer
:ry, " twenty pounds for Citizen Alexan
der—who bills more ?" seems to be carry
ing the joke too far in a free country.
A CIT.
Mr. Freneauj
AS the CIT has, of has own private au
thority, and without the knowledge or
concuit ence or his (ellow-citizcns in any
part of the United States, conferred the
honor ot citizenship on the Pompeys, the
Alexanders, &c. iv»io knows but he may be
dlfpofed to carry the joke still farther, and
dub all those newly created citizens Hono
rable and Mofl Honorable P Indeed fuelv
is the prefect rage for titlfs, that titles,
dear titles mud, ifcieems, exiO somewhere
or other in this country. And what think
you, Mi. Frejienii, if we were to borrow
a tlfefnj hint from the old Spartarte, a.
grave, starched, orderly set of \yorthies for
all the world, like the felea-men of Bos
ton, except that the latter do not Jo openly
and avo-wedly encourage cheating anil
(harping as the feleft-men of Sparta did ?
The Spartans, to inspire their childreri
with abhorrence of drunkenness from a
view of its cifetVs, intoxicated their (laves
with wine : on the fame plan, let us in
toxicate our slaves with titles, and fufFei
them to strut about, as proud of this calfc
of frippery, as of their readers' old cloaths.
Will this do the blifmrfs, think you ? Will
this fatisfy the Cit ? I hope it will, and
that we (liall then have no further com
plaints of the scarcity of titles. Every
Hmple negro may be filled honorable ; and
iiie c.tie of ff.fdjt may be given
to the mu'attoes, who bear i'o much near
er a resemblance to the worthy gentlemen
that have 1, bored so hard to introduce ti
tular diftincl oils among us. An excellent
coachman or butler has a just claihi to the
:i tie oj excellency ; and that cf highneft
may with equal propriety be given to the
ghejl personage in the whole gang—the
uverfeer 1 The fable dames being also en
titled to their due (li3Ve of honor, instead
lit" "Lady K ,L a dy K , Lady D~,
See." who (hone in print, in the memora
■ e year eighty-nine, a printer hencefor
ward, i:i dclcribing a Fandango hall, iliay'
?,race his page with the names of Lady
chillis. Lady Chloi, &c : and instead of
nforming his readers that Brother Jona
han, /.orobabel, or Praije God, Captain of
i New-England cruiser, has kid/Tapped a
cor* of negroes in the Weft-Indie:—
whenever a innilar cafe again occurs, (as
irobably it often Mill) he may tell them,
that a fcoreot honor able s,mofl honorable.*,
'xceiiencies, and highnesses have been kid
lapped by Citizen Jonathun or- Citizeii
rai/i God. A BROTHER CIT.
IN conformity to arefolution entered irl
o for the Celebration of the victories ob
tained by the republic of France, " over
the combined armies of Austria and Pruf
ia,' f the officers of the Militia are in—
ormed that the feftlval will take place oil
Wednesday the 6th of February instant,
this day) being the anniversary of Uie
ALLIANCE with FRANCE ; and are re
]uefted to meet at the State, House,
precisely at 2 o'clock, in order to march
from thence in procession.
WILLIAM COATES,
Chairman of the Committed
t eb. 2d. of Arrangements.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
Six Per Cents j Q r
Thiee Per Cents icA.
£)efetred j
Bank of the United State! 15 P .c. prerfi.
Those gentlemen, in different par; 3 of tha
Union, who hold
SUBSCRIPTION PAPERS FOR THE
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER*
Are rcquefte;i to make returns of the I'ubfeii
b?.*V names as Toon as convenient—
MefFrS. the Printsrs, also, who hav£, at my
jequeii-, publi/hed the proposals* will please to fen I
in their refpeftive accounts.
JOHN OAUEVi
No, 26, Pear-St;2«t, PhiladelphiaContinuation of Mr. Steele's Speech in
the Hotlfe of Representatives, on Satur
day, January 5. —On the reduction as
the present Military establishment of the
Army.
r T~"HE last objection, and the least ftri
-i- ous of all, to this motion is the ex
pee ation of a treaty in the spring. Mr.
Stee e said, if he thought the gentleman
who threw this difficulty in t|ie way, be
lieved himfelf that we l ave aify reafou to
exptft a permanent peace from the treaty
now proposed, it may deserve an answer.
Fails are n Ore to be relied upon than
words: from the channel through which
these propositions have come—from the
whole complexion of their talks, and from
the late attack on Major Adair, it may
fafrly be asserted, that no peace can te ef
fected in the spring.
He recapitulated some of the difficulties
which this motion had to confl ft, and said,
that he could mention others, if he was at
liberty to do so. Under such circumftan-
As, success is hardly to be expected—but
he knew that the merits of ths motion de
served it.
He could not fit down, without making
one remark upon the calculations and llate
ment of expences in the war department,
offered to the committee by Mr. Wadf
worth last Wedntfday ; and though the
gentleman then spoke unguardedly of my
calculations, I feel too much delicacy to
retort. I stated at the commencement of
this debate,thzt in ] 792 there were appro
priated by law, for the Quarter Mafler's
Department, 50,000 dollars ;
Mr. Wadfworth stated to
have been in that year
appropriated by law, 12c,0e0
Difference, 70,000
I have re-examined my statement, com
pared it with the law, find it was correct ;
and there is no document in pofTeflion of
the house to prove, either that his state
ment is so, or that mine is not so.
Indeed, the inaccuracy of his statement
is explained and proved by this single cir
cumft ince: In 1792 the law appropriated
50*000 for that department, on an estimate
of 2 123 non-commissioned officers and pri
vates, and in 1793, which is the most ex
travagant estimate we have ever had, the
Secretary at War only demands for the
Quarter-Mailer's Department, on an estab
lishment of 5 120 jion-commiffioned officers
and privates, the sum of 100,000 dollars.
Is it reasonable to suppose, that an army of
2000 men, would require more (lores than
an army of 5000 ? Or has ic been cuflom
ary for that officer to lessen the demands,
as the establishment increased ? The ap
propriation laws, and the Treasury of the
United States, can answer this question.
The gentleman's statement is inaccurate in
more instances than this—but one is e
ftough for my purpose. Having made this
appear, Mr. Steele said he would not speak
again, nor would he hold himfelf bound to
reply to any observations that might be
made, either in regard ;o his motiou or his
calculations.
Mr. Hill house observed, that nothing
had been advanced in the whole course of
this long debate, but what he had heard
mentioned last winter in the house. He
was then opposed in principle to a war es
tablishment and he ft ill retained the fame
opinion; but from the present complexion
of affairs, it appeared to him, that he ought
to submit, and give up his own opinion to
the general sense of the legislature, which
2t present seemed to be, for persevering in
the fyllem already adopted, and which, as
it had fcaieely had time for a fair trial, he
thought, ought not to be arrested, perhaps
111 the verv instant when its efficacy was to
be expected. If peace should not be eftab
lilhed during the next summer, he would
then join with such members as would pro
pose .1 better system—but as the law pro
vides for exercising the discretionary pow
ers of the executive, it would be belt to rely
on them —a standing army he said was a
thing irtipoffible to be established in the
United States whilst the House of Repre
sentatives have the power of granting mo
ney only for two years at any time ; he
therefore had no fears on that score. An
army existing in time of peace, was the
idea he had of a standing army : and not
an army embodied for only a year or two:
lipon the whole, it would be as expensive
to disband the present force, and institute
another of militia, &c. as it will be to keep
up the existing establishment for a little
longer time ; it was therefore his advice,
to let the matter reft where it was, with tht
executive for the present. But in cafe of
a peace not being accomplished within a
reasonable pe.iod, he would join those who
would be for a change in the system ; and
he was clearly cf opinion, that a system
might easily lie adopted, not only to pro
test our frontiers by repelling the savages,
but to exterminate them altogether.
Mr. Murray said at so late a stage of
the debate it would be improper to detain
the committee ; and had he heard one po
rtion of the gentleman from North-Caro
lina attended to by any other, he would
have held himfelf inexcusable in calling the
attention of the comm.ttce to its refuta
tion ; except the calculations entered into
by the gentleman from Nor.h-Carolina,
and answered by those of the gentleman
from Connecticut, which were all irrela
tive to the point in ifTne, he had heard but
one new position advanced on this fubjeft
; which had been so amply difcufTed by eve
ry member, for at lealt three weeks last
session. The position to which he alluded
was this : that as long as one establishment
was kept up in one concentred point,
there the Indians would conceutie, and
thence is deduced the conclusion that the
great combination of the savages was a
eonfequence of the army which we kept
up. Oil this reasoning much stress had
been laid by that gentleman, and by most
who had supported his motion ; and they
agreed that by diminishing our establish
ment and diffufing our materiuls of de
fence, the Indians would be disjoined and
cease their combined operations. Nothing
he eonceived could be more fallacious than
any reasoning which miflook effects for
causes. He would observe, and the gen
tleman mud admit, that the mode of our
defence had been a consequence of the e
peration of the savages, and not a cause of
their combination. The hillory of Indian
warfare from Braddock's defeat up to the
year eighty-four, could furnifh little mat
ter of inftruftion on the present situation
of things ; before that period no cause ex
isted that could forcibly attract the sava
ges to a centre, or give activity or durati
on to their combinations in great num
bers. But since the revolution a cause
did exilt in the neighbourhood of the pre
sent scene of operation, over which we
have no controul, and which he had no
fort of doubt had produced the effects a
gainst which the establishment is to aft.—
That cause, which it was but
to allude to, had undoubtedly planned the
measures—inspired thehoftility—and pro
vided the means of Indian warfare : it had
organized a set of tubes hitherto difpetfed
in their action, or had giveri a formidable
method to those who some years since
were without method, and who only kept
up a kind of incurfive war, and a rui f g
fire along the frontier. In these times
the mode of defence was accommodated
to the mode of offence ; and when no well
organized attack was made, less skill and
combination of defence were requ site—
But now the policy of another power gives
energy and system to the tribes ; it 'con
centres those powers which were disper
sed, and gives permanency to what was
before temporary and inconflant ; our
mode of defence opposed system to sys
tem j and permanent defence to the ap
pearances of permanent combinations —
Militia woodsmen would do in the old in
curfive war, but were unfit for that fort of
war that aftcd against hoflilities which
were permanent and organized ; for these
garrisons uniting the allurements of traffic
with the refpeftability of arms were ne
cefTary ; and woodsmen who could not
leave their families for more than a mere
excursion of forty days were not proper.
While he was up he would remark that
whatever had been said of standing armies,
though perfectly true, abilraftedly taken,
did in no point touch on the present ques
tion. We are in a state of war, and have
an army and mufl have pne j theie was no
more resemblance between a standing ar
my and an army, as is ours, raised for ac
tual defence, than there is between a ca
melion and an owl ; the one a thing of ill
omen, and unnecessary but for works of
darkness ; the othtr a creature that took
its complexion from the moment. A
standing army exifls beyond the laws of
reasonable necessity ; our establishment
was dictated by absolute necessity, is limi
ted in numbers and duration, and is in
all ulpefts considered but as the engine
of protection against the hoflile Indians.
Those, he obfeived, who supported the
resolution had a great advantage over its j
j oppofers, in the freedom with wh'ch they
could attack a fyltem which was formed
partly from public and partly from confi
dential information. In defending this
fylttm thus openly he felt hiinfelf trammel
ed perpetually by a natural tendency to
use those arguments in its support which
he had drawn from confidential sources of
information last ftffion, while the doors
were shut—but felt the propriety of re
training that impulse, and w<;uld only call
on members to recotleft the view the fub
jeft had been held in at a time when all
the information was a fair source of de
bate. He hoped that as there certainly
now wa3 no profpedt of peace in the
spring, and as the Prefidtnt had the pow
er to derive every advantage from the em
ployment of expert woodsmen under the
law pall lall session, that the resolution
would not be agreed to.
[To be concluded in out next.]
A CAUI ION TO THE PUBLIC.
ALL persons aie forewarned how they take
an alignment upon a bond of £. 112 : to
( befc.fi rg date January 26, 1792, given by MOR
OLC Al* and N ATHAN HOLT, of the township
ol Horfharn, county of Montgomery, and State oi\
Pennsylvania, unto Isaiah of the town- j
(hip of Amwell, county of Hunterdon, .State of !
New-Jersey 5 as the l'vm foeciried within said
bond Jias been lawfully tendered to the said Isai
ah in by on the day it became due j but he
having refufed to comply with certain ftipolati
ons agreed to before incontertable evidences, pre- |
vious to his receiving laid bond, we arc now de
termined toconteft the fame.
MORDECAI HOLT.
NATHAN HOLT.
S. Said bond was obtained by illegal means
and may probably be contested for rtafons not
here referred to.
Horfliam Township, January 2$ 1793.
3t.i.aw.
W A T C H E S.
ROBERT LESLIE,
CLOCK, and WATCH MAK.tR, No. 167,
Markec-llreet.
AFTER returning his sincere thanks to his
friends, and tne public in general, for :he
great encouragement he has experienced since the
commencement of his business i/i this city, takes,
this opportunity of informing them that, in con
sequence of his intention of going to London in A
pril next, he is felling elf, at very reduced prices,
his stock in trade, confuting of a very large ajid
general alTortmenC of enamelled and plain gold,
g;!t and silver, capr, and capr and jewelled
WARRANTED WATCHES,
Moll of which are of tlie lacelt importation and
newest falhion, —Also a variety of the highelt ti
nilhed cut steel, and gilt, ladies and gentlemen's
Watch Chains, Seals, Keys, and Trinkets, toge
ther with a few Gold Chains, Keys and Seals.
Philad. Jan. 16, 1793. ef.tf.
SIX-PENCE REWARD.
RUN AWAY from the fftbfcriber, living*\ n
•Southampton township, Bucks County, on
j in„» /11th of January, a servant lad named THO
MAS SMITH, had on a striped cloth coat, old
felt hat, and woolen trowfers, whofoevcr fhali
apprehend the said lad, and bring him home to
his maftrr, (hall have the above reward, but no
charges paid. JOSHUA WOOD.
Jan. 22.
Terres a Vendre
Dans un pais bieti peuple,-—
S AVOIR, foixante cinq millc, tiois cens, foixe,
ante et quatorze Acres, en ur.e feole piece
dansle canton le mieux people de la Caroline Ms,
ridionale, leDiftiidtde Ninety-Six, Ces terre
font fitucei dans une contrce agrcable, et falubre
ou les fievres font inconnuesj a environ vingt lieues
de Colombie, la Capitale, et contigues ala ville
de Cambridge, eu il y a College, et Cour fuperi
cure. A environ douze lieuej, ily a bonne nave
gation jet il eft tres probable, que dans quelqui
terns on rendra navigable le Grand Salute, riviere
qui arrofe les terres memes. Eiles font agreable
ment diverfifiees de coteaux et valioas charmant
propres a la culture du tabac, ou coton, du mais
et du petit grain jet dont une proportion confider
able'fe peutaifement convertir en prairies fertiles
ilneelt peut-etre gueres poliible de rencontrer,
jiareilJe pifce de terre a vendre dans aueun autre
des Etats Unis jet pour les conditions de l*ach at
on les rendra tre> commodes.
S'inrormer a I'imprimerie de Ja Gazette Na
c'o.iale. Sept. 5.
LANDS for SALE,
IN a well fettled Country. SIXTY.FIVE
THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY.FOUR ACRES OF L/IND, in one
body, in the most populous part of the state of
South-Carolina, in the diftridt of Ninety-fix---It
is situated in a fine healthy climat",free from fever
8c ague,about sixty miles from Columbia, the feat
of government. The land is contiguous to the
town of Cambridge, where are a seminary so tht
inftru&ion of youth, and a superior law court* It
is at ptfefent within about thirty-five miles of good
navigation, with a probability of having the river,
called the Great Saluda, that flows along one fide
of the land, made navigable. The land is beauti
fully diverfified into swells and vales, and is per
fectly well calculated for the culture of tobacco,
cotton, Indian corn, and small grain j a great
proportion of it may be made meadow ground.
There is not, perhaps, such a body of land, focii
cumftan&ed, for sale in any other of the U-. States.
The terms of payment will be made convenient to
the purchaser or purchafcii. Apply to the Prirter.
August 29• lawtf
Jujl Publijhed,
By H. & P. RiCE, No. 50, Market.Street^
THE SYSTEM 0F
<IJ/i ort- c?£a nd,
Uled bv Mr. Lloyd. in taking down the
DEBATES of CONGRESS.
%* REPRESENTATION having been
that the ihortnel's of the period, limited tor rhs
fubferiptien, has deprived many gentlemen at a
diliance, of an opportunity of lending in the ir
names :—The Editor, in order to accommodate
them, and to render this publication more ex
tensively ufeful, has deteimined not to raile th<-
price to a dolar and an half (as intended) before
the fifteenth of March j—making howevrr a dif
criminacion, in f«.vor of the actual fubferibecs#
by printing their copies on fuberjine rtyal writing
paper. A few remaining copies of this kind will
be delivered to the carlieit of the non-fubferibing
purchasers, at the fame price a? those on the com
mon printing paper, viz. one dollar, in marbled
covers \ neatly bound, a Frentb itoivn*
Jan. i 5. 4 t.
Philadelphia, January 12, 1793.
MATHEW CAREY
Refpe&fully informs the Citizens ot' the
United States, that the Maps t'or his
intenJed edition or
Guthrie's Geography
IMPROVED,
Are now engraving—and as soon as a fuJiicient
number of them are finiflied, to secure a regular
fuppiy during the publication, which will proba
bly be early text Springs the work, will be put
to press.
Hereturns his acknowledgments to the very
relpeftabie number of lubCcribers, who havecome
forward thus earlv to pation/ze this arduous un
dertaking. Ho allures chem and the public in
general, that no pains or expence shall be ipared ia
the execution of the work.
Terms of the Pf'trk :
I. IT &all be puuliih&d in 48 weekly num
bers, each containing three iheets, or twenty-four
pages, of Utter press, in quarto, printed wish new
y-pes on line paper.
11. In the course of the work will be delivered
about thirty large maps, of the fame size as those
in the European editions, viz. most of thern jfhetC
maps on port paper.
(Cj? 3 Bejides the maps the Mritijh
tb'ts IVfith «will contain nine or ten American States
Maps.
Jll. The price of each number will oe a quar
ter dollar, to be paid on delivery.
£jr* No advance required.
IV. Suolcribers who disapprove of the work,
on the publication of the three firft num-bers, are
ro be at liberty to return them, and stall have
their money repaid.
V. The fiibfcribers* names /hall be prefixed as
patrons of the undertaking.
* # * Subscriptions received in Philadelphia by
the intended publilher ; in New-York, by all the
bookfetters j in New-Haven, by M . Beers j ia
Hartford, by Mr. Patten j in Bolton, by Meft,
Tbomasand Andrews, and by Mr. Welt: :r
Baltimore, by Mr. Rice j in Richmond, by f.*r.
J. Carey ; in Charlellon, by Mr, W. P. Young,
and by sundry other pcrlons throughout the Uni
ted States. lawtf
Philadelphia & New-York
STAGES,
» Y WAY OP
BURLINGTON, BOR DENTON, & SGUTH
AMBOT—
start from Samuel Ferry, oppo
site to Philadelphia, every Sunday and Wed
nesday morning, during the winter leafon, and
airive at South-Ambpy on Monday, and Thu/fday
evenings—where a good boat will be ready to coa
vey Goods and Paffe'ngers to New-York.
The Stage boats wifl leave New-York every
Monday and ThuifJay, so as Co meet the Stages
from Philadelphia at Amboy, to proceed for Phi
ladelphia next day. All Baggage belonging t*
paflengersto be at their own rifijue.
All Goods forwarded by the Stages on bill, to
be under the particular care of the P/oprietors of
the Stages j but not warranted against robbery or
damage—And all entering, clearing and permits,
to be paid by the owners of goods.
Price of a pafluge from Cooper's ferry to New-
York, " £o. 13. g.
2Colb. of Goods, to pay the price of a paiTa-e*
All Way pafTengers, 3d p«i mile.
AMOS HUTCHIN, and ? For Burlinp-.
NICHOLAS SCfIENCK, S ton line.
VAN EMBURGH & M'KEAN, ? For Borden
and DAVID WILLIAMSON, } ton line,
January 16, 1793. [law..4^
CHARLES BITTERS*,"
No. 120, South Market, near Fourth-Jlrcet,
Has received from New-York, and ma
nufaJlured by Let Mcrkcl,
A large and general afiortment of
Muffs and Tippets, Trimmings
and Edgings,
Great Coats, Caps, Mitts and Gloves liaed
with Fur, which he will fell,
Wholesale and Retail,
at the lowest j/rices.
Nov. 24* 2aw
PR INTED BY
C H I L D S AND S W AINE,
AT THEIR OFFICE NO. H!GH->TKE6'f
HEAR FIFTH-STR £S X,
fHJLADB X. T H I A »