Numb. 40 of Vol. ll.]
Debate on the Official Conduct of the Se
cretary of the Treasury, (continued
from our last.)
Friday, March 8.
LAWRENCE contended, that the
- 1 interest of the monifs borrowed
■was not paid out of the principal of the
loan, as let forth in the fir[t charge of the
resolution before the committee.' If gen
tlemen would attend to the history of the
tranfaftion, they would find this ftriftly
true. Thisintereft was paid out of the
monies borrowed for the reduction of the
public debt, and not out of those iutcndecl
to pay the French, and the funds appropri
ated for the payment of that interest were
here, to replace the former and be applied
as those were appropriated. He referred
to the President's speecheS at the com
mencement of the two last fefiions to (hew
that the loan was obtained under tilt joint
authority of both acts, and adverted to the
ast of Congress, in confeqnence of adonbt
suggested by the Secretary, explaining,
that the monies firft obtained might be
conlidered as borrowed under the act au
thorizing the 2,000,000 loan. Having
fliewn the firlt charge in the resolution to
be unfounded, he turned to the second.
The Secretary is accused of drawing
monies to this country without inftrufti
ons. rn this tranfaftion, he said, the Pre
sident mull be conlidered as principal and
the Secretary the agent, or the Secretary
must be looked upon as the principal. If
the Prcfider.t is the principal and he be
authorized to obtain the loans, as soon .
the money is obtained it naturally fallsun
derthe direft'loll of the financier; but if
it be contended, that the Prefulent was to
have applied the monies as well as to bor
row them, then we have nothing to do
with the agent, that agent is accountable
to his principal, and as this principal
is not called to an account by the
iegillature for any improper exer
cise of discretion he must be considered as
having acted ftriftly within the law. If the
Secretary isconlidered as the principal (and
by a ftrift attention to the law, he believ
ed, it would be found so ; for the Preli
dent is by it authorized to borrow and it is
not exprefied who (hall apply the money)
then it was not one of the duties of the
Secretary to procure the inftruftions of the
Preiident; being the principal and con
sequently having the direction of the mo
ney borrowed he is made the judge of the
time of drawing, but to fulfil the intenti
ons of the law. Was the money, he ask
ed, to have remained in the hands of the
banker in Europe ? Since it was borrowed
for the purchase of the public debt, the
sooner it was drawn over, the better, and
the Secretary having the direction of those
monies could do it without consulting the
Preiident. He proceeded to (hew, howe
ver, that the Secretary had by no means
acted entirely without regard to the Pre
sident's inftruftions. His letter to Mr.
Short, which had been read, exprefily fays,
that he is waiting for inftruftions from the
President; and the only inftruftions brought
forward, clearly (hewed that he c|id not
ast without them. On this occasion it was
not neceffarv, he conceived, that all the
private communications between those two
officers should be brought forward ; in
deed many of the inftruftions might have
}>een verbal, and of a private nature.—
Another proof lies before the committee
to (hew that the Secretary did not ast in
dependent of inftruftions. A report of
the Secretary, mentions, that some mat
ters relative to the loans were under the
confederation of the President of the Uni
ted States. This document, he remarked,
the gentlemen were in poflellion of when
they framed the resolutions, and it, in hU
opinion, left very little ground, indeed, to
jfuppofe, that the Secretary had acted with
out inftruftions.
That officer, he contended, had ftriftly
obeyed the appropriation law ; he had not
drawn one dollar that the ast did not war-
rant. On the authority of one ast, the
Secretary drew two inillions(by the bye he
wilhed to remark, that the Secretary is
not the officer who actually draws, who
fells the bills, or receives the money ; this
falls within the province of the Treasurer;
the Secretary does not touch a penny of
those monies) he drew two millions to ap
ply to the reduction of the public debt.
The other ast, he said. gave the President
power to tlraw every dollar of the loan it
eftabliffied, if he thought fit, if those who
were to receive the money wished to be
paid here. Will the remittance which af
forded so seasonable a relief to St. Domin
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhcd Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
go, be found fault with? If this mode ol
paying was within the authority veiled ir
the Prelident, fnrely the power of drawing
mud have accompanied it. He concluded
by observing, that he had slated his ide.
on the ftibjett in a hafly manner, under the
impreifion of want of time to goiiilly inc
the difcuflion.
Mr. Mercer next rose. None of the
communications from the Secrerary of tliL
Treasury, he said, had removed his fufpiii
ons relative to the tranfaclions of that de
partment ; what had fallen in the course
if the difcuflion had not removed hi:
tloubts. He confefled himfelf more at a
lofsthan ever to account for the condutl
if that officer. To judge of the propriety oi
his conduct, it was neceflary to confidei
ivhat his duties are. and invefligate whe
Lher a necessity exifled to jullify the draw
ing complained of.—Gentlemen in thcil
arguments Sad-alluded to some observati
ons that had fallen from him on other oc
casions expreilive of his opinion, that there
liad been corruption in that department.
This opinion he flill entertained ; he fug-
that some irregularities, h:»l, he
believed, taken place as to the money ap
propriated to the finking fund. This
might be the fa£l, and his suspicions were
fufficiently urgent to warrant him in fug-
that it might be possible. At the
close of '92 he slated there was a balance
of cash In the Treasury 0f2,33r,i52 dol
lars, and the bonds due in the course ol
:heprefent year would produce a sum ol
about 2,269,000 elollars; yet a propolitior
was made in the house.predicated on a to
:al want of money in the Treasury, te
jorrow 800,000 dollars in addition to the
joo.ooo already borrowed of the hank.
Here Mr. Boudinot interrupted th<
member a'", bpin* Qut cf nrxi.-r
The Chairman, conceiving Mr. Mercer'
•emarks to be introdnftory to, and con
lefted with the observations he intended t(
make on the resolution declared him it
order.
Mr. Mercer proceeded to flievv by fun
tliy flatements and calculations, througl
which we were unable to follow him, tha
there was no necellity for this loan of 800
300 dollars. The house, he said, t<> dif
charge their duty (liould b» fatisfied how
money appropriated was applied, before
they consented to repeated additional ap
propriations. When calls for informatior
liad been made by the house, with a view
to comply with this their indifpenfible du
ty. the Secretary had thought it fufficienl
to balance money actually rece.ved, by cal
culations of sums that would probably be
wanted agreeably to appropriations. Were
dollars, he alked, to be balanced by obso
lete appropriations ; can things certain be
balanced by things uncertain ? AJtiial ex
penditure would alone balance a£tual re
ceipt. Appropriations only founded 011
uncertain calculations could not fliew the
money actually laid out. He adverted tc
some calculations irnde to ascertain the
probable expences of the war department.
Here the member was again called to
order, and was declared out of order by
the chairman.
Mr. Mercer confined his observation?
more immediately to the resolution before
the committee It had been said, that the
interest: paid, was paid out of monies that
were to be drawn to this countrv, and
were replaced hereby funds from the do
meflic resources originally appropriated
for that object and that the dead letter of
the law, if any part of it, h id alone been
violated. He contended there had been
an eflential violation.
Th .- sums drawn for and appropriated to
reduce the public debt were not applied to
that purpose, the domeflic resources ap
propriated to that obje£l i never were cx
haufted. If this is the rase, condufion l
surely unfavourable to that officcr mufl
naturally follow.
He proceeded to make some remarks on
the qi.eflion, whether the Secretary had
acted under inftruflions from the Presi
dent. It was difagrecable, lie premised.
to criminate the character of any officer.
He bore agrear refpeft for the President,
for his virtues, talents and services ; but
however grating to his feelings it might
be to find fault with any part of his con
dust in this business he was unable to dis
charge his duty under his_ present impres
sions, milefs he avowed, that he conceived,
that officer had violated the law, tho' he
allowed, without intention, by not enqui
ring into the bufineft, while tranfafling, as
it was his duty to do. He mull declare
that he favv no proof that the Secretary
SATURDAY, March 16, 1793.
had afteil under the President's inftruflions,
on the contrary he saw the reverse.—there
wa> evtn no preemptive proof of the fact.
The house had called for information as to
the extent of the authority delegated, in
the buiinefs, by the President t the Secre
tary. Either the Secretary has produced
the proof of this authority, or lie Jias not
complied with the order of the house ; it
does uppe:y tkat he has gone beyond it in
making the drafts complained of. The
Prelident directed that the proceeds of the
loan be immediately applied to pay the
French; yet a great portion of that mo
ney was brought over here. It was said,
that he might have brought the whole here
it' he chose, and paid it to the French here.
This argument goes on the preemption,
he obferverl, that the Prelident might do
wrong without in cut ring blame. But the
Prelident cxprefsly directed it to be paid
immediately to France ; and the house
had no right to presume that he did direst
the money tobe drawn here when proof
10 the contrary appears. Upon the whole
1e concluded, that the law had been bro
ken in letter and substance, and that the
■Secretary had a&ed without proper in
trusions from the President.
Mr. Ijvermore obfer* ed,chat the charges
igainfl the Treasury department were at
ir(l well calculated to beget serious alarm.
When misapplications of the public money
we founded in the public ear, all feel inte
■efted, knowing, that what affects the pub
ic purse, rtinft in a degree affect the purse;
jf each private individual. In the pre
ent stage of the business, he was happy in
>eingable to felicitate himfelf and his fel
ow citizens, that even (liould the whole
if the charges contained in the resolution?
>e proved, it would not appear, that they
tat'loft a fuftiiifig by me bufrnefslT) loudh
complained of. What is the charge ? Thai
lie Secretary Ins paid an interert that was
liftly due : why then, he presumed, we
hould not have it again to pay. If thi
Secretary has onid what was due, whai
hen is the complaint ? It was fin ely 1101
ntended, that it (hould have been paid
This was not the intention of Congress :
or they.pafled an a£t providing funds fevi
t5 payment; the Secretary was then riglu
0 pay it. But it is said, he paid it with
he wrong money ; he saw no harm in not
laying it with the very dollars appropria
ed, and approved of the operation, which
"aved drawing with line hand and remit
ting with the other ; in this there was nr
:rime committed, no loss incurred. Ii
ippcars, on the contrary, that something
was gained by it : So far then, he wj;
no law had been violated, nor was
any rule of propriety departed from. He
then touched upon the Secretary's difpy
ted right to draw. He contended, that h<
had that l ight. The loans were obtainei
under the joint authority of the two ails.
It was said that more than two millions,
the amount appropriated for the (iukinj
fund, were drawn overbut, he infilled,
he might have drawn the other twelve
millions, if it had been for the public inter
est so to do. The French wished to be
paid here, and it being no loss, rather t
profit to comply with their wish, where
was the harm in so doing ? If any public
lofsli id been incurred owing to these drafts,
then blame would lie, He concluded, by
exprelling his hearty approbation of the
condutl of theofficer who is criminated bj
the resolutions, and declared it as his firm
intention to give them his negative.
Mr,i'm/rt(S. C)regretted,that this bufinef:
(liould not have been brought forward be
fore the clole of the feilion nearly ; that
the information on which the present rc
folutions were grounded was not called for
at an earlier day. No delay, it mnft be
evident, could be imputed to the Secretary
he had reported with alacrity and dispatch.
1 hough lie felt feufibly this regret, yet he
was happy, that the charges again)! this
officer were brought forward in a fpecific
form. He premised, that as considerable
latitude had been taken by forne gentle
men who had been up before him, he
(liould take the liberty also, to preface his
remarks with a few observations, that
ould flriilly apply, however to the fub
jeft in general. In the origin of the biifi
nefs the charges were various, and of a
different nattire from the present. At one
time a million unaccounted for was spo
ken of, at another, money was borrowed
011 an interelf of 16 or 17 per cent : the
bufinef in its progress resolved itl'elf how
ever into the iiinple charges contained in
the resolutions on the table. He made
some observations pti the danger of bring-
[Total No. 144-.]
irg forward charges which cannot be fup-.
ported, efpeciallv again!! such an officer
as the Secretary of the Treasury. In
vertjoient-; like this the financial depart
ment is in of) the object of puljlic suspicion;
caution fhuuld therefore be used before
diftrull is excited. A charge a-gainft this
department ftuwld not be made, unless well
grounded. The resolutions on the table,,
he remarked, did npt accuiV the becreta
ly of a deviation from his duty owing to
interefled motives ; but of afiuming more
authority than he was entitled to, from an
?rror in judgment, and not any corrupt
principle. He agreed to the
:hat 110 executive officer should ceviate
rom the ftri'fl line of his authority unlefi
n cases of urgent receffity : The enquiry
s then, whether the Secretary has viola
:ed the law, and if he has, whether therq
jxifted any neceflity for the violatior.
tie had proceeded to make some farther
reneral remarks, when we wa> callled
irder by.
Mr. Find-ley, who (fated he had been
railed to order when on the ground, the
nemberfrom Sojith Carolina (Mr.
tad just entered upon.
Mr. Smith fiid, that the general
/ations he had yet to make were few :
lowever he would now ftriflly cor!:ne
limfelf to the two charges contained in tha
•efohition immediately before the cojnn}it
:ee. He approved of the manner in which
he Secretary had avoided making a remit*
:ance, by avoiding a correspondent draft.
[f he had ailed differently, he would have
jeeti liable to cenfnre. If any loss bad ac*
rued on his bills, in cafe be had pursued
lifferent line of conduit from tha; he
idopted, he would have been charged with
>hmdering and ignoranoe of his duty. Hs>
lad avoided this, and yet he is unacvouilt*
ibly found fault \vith.
He next turned to the second shargsj
:ontained in the resolution, and her? he
( marked, that the gentlemen h'o not, in
his business taken the spirit o£the laws or
he course of justice as their guide. Th«
aw prelumes all pel Tons innpeent 'till they
ire proved to be guilty, they pr. fume thin,
)fficer guilty and will not admit preintpp
:ive evidence of his innocence.
The President had made the Secretary
lis agent to negociate both the loans au
horijsed by law ; giving jlim at the fame
ime inftruftions relative to the application
if the money to be obtained undertbc au
hority of the fit ft ast, and no iultruOion as
o the application of the money to be obs
ained under the other ; what is the natu-j
al inference from this, he aflied : fer
ainly that the President reftrved his iu«
truftions on that fubjeft to a future occa
ion, or that he was willing to leave it tq
he Secretary's direction, to whom indeed
he application of all tr.onies devolves ex
iffitio. As to conColiilating the separate au
horities of tjie two aits, this was Well
cnpwn to the President, he mentions it tq
:he house in his speech deli\ ered two years
igo, snd refers to the Secretary for further
Information on that ftib eft. The Seoreta
-yin his report, expressly fays, that this
was done in the name and by order of the
President, ane that part of three jn'Hlpi.t
sorrowed had been paid tt- the French,
lart to the Dutch and that \vh ,t rema'ned
ivas ready to be applied to the pqrehafe of
:he debt. Yet gentlemen, he pbl'e-rvcd,
tad afierted, that nothing had been com
municated to the house refpcftini monies
obtained by loans for the | urehaie of the
debt. Hetalledfor the reading of tjjt- do
.unients he had referred to.
After the reading of such parts of thnfedo -
ruments as applied to tie points lie uilhed
to elucidate, he repeated, that in his re
port the Secretary cxprefsly fays, that a
sum remained which might be applied to
the purchase of the public debt : Yet
gentlemenhadnfTerted,that ilie pdb icicthi
house were in total daikncfsaf to the pro
priety and situation of those diafts, Sure
ly the Secretary's conduct might with ren
fon have been eliminated if he had r< t
drawn. A s to the inductions from the
Prelident to the Secretary ; it mud ap
pear evident, from what had been read,
that there mud have been ipftru£l ons
from the principal to the agent, or gene,
ral discretion lepofed ; this mull he pre
sumed ; that the President diu his dutj
and would lisne punished the officer, by re
moval, if he had aftpd without a difcre; i
onary power or contrary to his inllrudti-
I'ljt J age jContinuation, from our last, of the Sup
plementary Report of a Committee ot
Congress oil the failure of the expedition
under General Sc. Clair—(concluded.)
IT is dated in the original report, that—
'• Mr. Hodgdoii was appointed qunrter
m after genera! in the month of Marclj, and
continued at Philadelphia until the 4th ot
June 17-•) i;he then proceeded to Fort-Pitt,
where'he arrived on the tenth of the fame
month—no fufficient causes have appeared
to the committee to juftify this delay, and
his presence with the army appeared to
have been essentially necell'ary previously to
that time."
In this statement, the duration ot Mr.
Hodgdon's stay at Fort-Pitt was cafnallv
omitted, which appears to have been from
thetenth of Jane till the tvventy-hxtn ot
August. The insertion of this fact will
fufficiently explain the sense of the com
mittee, in the inference refpectkig the
time in which the presence of the quarter
m ilter general was necessary at the ar
my. L
It is (tated in the original report, that—
" There were fix hundred and feventy
five stand of arms, at Fort-Walhington, 01
the tirit of June, and most of those totall)
out of repair."
These arms, the precise number ot whici
appears not to be accurately afcertaincd
are admitted by the Secretary at War, t<
have been at Fort Walhington. in the lun
ation deferibed, but he suggests, that the)
were old and useless arms, which had beer
collected at that place, and were 1101
counted upon, as any part of the supply o
arms for the expedition.
It appears, that the regular troops am
levies were completely supplied with arms
without recurrence to this stock ; but :
number of them was repaired, by order:
of the commander in chief of the expedi
tion, with a view,as he fuggefts,to arm the
militia from Kentucky, who, it was ex
pected, would arrive, either infufficienth
armed, or not armed at all : and he die
not conceive the arrangements made b)
the war department, competent to arniinj
the militia, together with the other troopj
The original report dates, that—
" The privates of the levies received bill
three dollars pay each, from the time ol
their relpective inliftinents to the time ol
their respective discharges, and were actu
ally discharged without farther pay or set
tlement ; notes of discharge were giver
them, fpecifying the lime of their service,
and bearing indorsations, thatfome advan
ces had been made to them on account
without dating the amount, the object o]
which is suggested to have been to prevenl
transfers ; the intended effect was not pro
duced by the measure ; the notes were
("old for trifling considerations, the real
sums due on the notes were various, from
ten to twenty-five dollars, and they were
frequently fold for one dollar, or one gal
lon of whilky; the monies for the pay ol
the levies did not leave Philadelphia til
the fourth of December, one thousand fc
ven hundred and ninety-one, nor arrive al
Fort Walhington till the third of January,
one thousand seven hundred and nine-two,
some time after the last inlifted levies are
known to have been entitled to their dis
charges." .
In addition to the reasons contained in
the original report, respecting the difchar
eingot the levies, without their stipulated
pay, which are admitted by the Secretary
at War, to have been justly stated, he has,
in his late communication, suggested to the
committee, that, at the time of the dis
charge of the levies, there was aflually 111
the hands of the quarter-master general,
the sum of sixteen thousand two hundred
ninety-two dollars and seventy cents,
which were fubje£t to be applied to any ob
ieft agreeably to the difcretionof the com
mander in chief of the expedition, and
mieht have been applied, if he thought
n-op«r to the pavment ot the discharged
levies 'and would have been fufficient for
two months pay to the officers, and four
months pay to the privates. This sum is
admitted by the qnarter-mafter general
to have been in his hands, at the time of
the discharge of the levies, and would have
been applied to their pay, if orders had
been givep by the commander in c.nef of
the expedition, for that purpose ; but that
no such orders ever were received by
him. The Secretary at War infers, from
these circumftar.ces, that no censure fiiould
be imputed to the war department, for not
having paid implicit attention to this lub-
The circumstances refpe£ting this tran
faftion have been attentively examined by
the committee, and appear to them to be
'the following : The quarter-master gene
ral upon his leaving Philadelphia, wasfur
nilhed with the sum of twenty thousand
dollars, for the life of that department.—
He was afterwards furnifhed with two o-
Mier Turns, to wit : the sum of seventeen
thousand eight hundred and forty-four dol -
lars and fifty cents, on the twenty third
(lav of I "ly ; and the sum of two thousand,
two hundred and twenty-four dollars and
fixtv cents, on the feventn day ot July,
making together the sum of twenty thou
f-ind and li'ity-nme dollars and ten cents.
It appears by letter from the Secretary at
War to the commander in chief of the ex
pedition, that five thousand dollars of this
fain were to be applied to the pay of the
regular troops, if the commander in chief
should deem that a proper application of
the money, which, however, was not done.
The remaining part of this money was in
tended to form a kind of military chest, to
answer contingent expences ; subject how
ever to the controul of the commander in
thief. It appears that the quarter-master
general, in addition to those supplies of
cash, was authorized to draw bills on tlie
Secretary at War, with this relfriftion .—
that the commander in chief fiiould approve
of all draughts, and certify the neceflity ot
propriety of making them. The quarter
mailer general commenced his draughts at
Fort Pitt, previoully to his arrival at head
quarters, to the amount of two thousand
Six. hundred dollars, .and continued their
after his arrival; but it does not appeal
that those draughts were certified, or func
tioned by the commander in chief; al
which draughts were honored by the Se
cretary at War.
It is suggested by the commander ir
chief, that he never conlidered the money
before mentioned, appropriated to the paj
of the levies, upon their discharges, 1101
that it was ever intended to be applied t(
that objea. He further suggests a wan
of knowledge of the money, said to be ot
hand, at the time of the discharges of th<
levies, although he admits, that the quar
ter-master general, shortly after hi 3 arri
val at head-quarters, tendered him a state
ment of the cash on hand, which lie ie
turned, without examination, observing
that he had already received fufheient in
formation relatively thereto, from the Se
cretary at War ; that he was informed o
the amount of monies originally receiver
by the quarter-master general, and con
ceived that he could form some idea of th<
balance on hand, from the films difburfei
in consequence of warrants drawn by him
which, he expected, were paid from tlia
fund—that his want of information, as t<
the real balance, arose from the circum
Itance of the bills drawn by the quarter
master general, without his knowledge,_o:
the reqnifite certificate from him, whicl
bills operated, as a relief to that fund foi
their amount. The commander in chie
of the expedition further suggested to tlit
committee, in presence of the quarter
master general, that, upon making draught
upon the fund before alluded to, he usual
ly enquired of the quarter-master general
whether it was fufficient for the purpose o
infwering the draught, and upon repeat
ing tliis enquiry, just before the difchargt
as the levies, he received tor answer
"that the chest was very low." Tin
statement was acquiesced in, or at least
not denied by the quarter-master general
The quarter-master general has furnifh
?tl the committee with a statement of hi:
liicount, by which it appears, that he hac
jn hand, on the fifth day of November, ont
houfand seven hundred and ninety-one.
rafii. to the amount of fifteen thou fane
line hundred and twelve dollars, and for
y-two cents, and two thirds of a cent,
ivhich, he suggests, have been since applier
q the use of his department. This balance
s denied to have been on hand, by the
•ommander in chief, at that time : and he
las furnifhed a statement of difburfe
nentsfrom the original fund ; which leave:
;he amount of the balance, at the time ol
lie discharge of the levies of one thousand
"our hundred eighty-three dollars, eighty
ix cents, exclusive of five thousand dollar!
ippropriated to the pay of the old troops.
The commander in chief further fug
refts, that there was no paymaster to the
irmy, nor any person authorized to fettle
he accounts of the soldiers and afcertaii:
he real balances due to them,until the ar
rival of Mr. Swann, on the third day ol
January, one thousand seven hundred anc
linety-two ; and infers, that he had no au
:hority to direst a settlement and order p;>>
:o the until he was informed ol
:he arrangements made at the war office,
-elatively to that object. This suggestion i;
Irongly confirmed by a letter from the Se
cretary at War, addressed to the comman
ler in chief, and forwarded by Mr. Swann.
u'hi' h designates Mr. Swann as paymaster,
ind contains instructions relatively to the
:erms of fettling the accounts of" the foldi
■ry. The fume letter serves to shew. that
lie twenty thousand and lixty-nine dollars,
and ten cents, put into the pofleffion of the
quarter master general, were not conclu
lively destined for the pay of the levies, noi
To considered by the Secretary at War.
Becaufeit isaflerted in the letter, that Mr.
Swann is furnifhed witlfafum of money
fufficient for the whole pay of the levies,
without making any deduction in conse
quence of the monies furnifhed the quar
ter master general.
It is aliened by the Secretary at \\ ar,
in his communication to the committee,
that the time of the service of the (evies
did not expire until after the arrival of
Mr. Swann at Fort Washington, particu
larly Gaither's and Rhea's battalions, the
term in their inliftments having been, to
serve fix months after their arrival at Fort
Washington; which was denied at the
place of rendezvous. Tlie time which had
r lapsed from the period of inhfttr.cn's ro
their arrival at Fort Washington, or the
evident impropriety of annexing such a
condition to the cnliflmer.ts, car,fed tti2
condition irfelf to be dil'penfed with, alio
tliol'e levies; were actually discharged short-
Iv after the twelfth of November, one
tVtoufand seven hundred and ninety-one,
In consequence of having f rved fix month-,
which is the extent of the service autho
rized by law, and actually received certiii
cates at that time, of having performed f.:<
months service.
Upon a re-examination of the residue ot
the original report, and the evidence now
before the committee, they are fatisfied
with the fame, and find no material altera
tions or corrections r.eceflary.
A regard for candour lias induced the
committee to adopt this mode of reporting:
Liecaufe the original report is thereby pre
['erved, mistakes existing in the fame, and
which are now corrected,and the causes ol
thoffi mistakes rendered obvious, and the
whole fubjea presented to view, upon the
faireft terms, in the opinion of the com
mittee, to all persons in any degree con
cerned therein.
"From the American Daily AduertiJ er, oi
last Wednesday.]
Mdrefleel to the Citizens of America.
PERMIT me to call your attention acpof:
the Atlantic, and bring to your view
the present glorious contest, in which out
generous allies are engaged. The natior
who can forget the benefits, which have
been conferred on her, or despicably con
fines herfelf to the bare recolleaion ol
them, deserves to be coufigned over te
contempt, detestation and infamy ; but, 1
am fully persuaded, that America can ne
ver, deservedly, incur such odious impu
tations.
We are daily entertained with account:
of numberless meetings of citizens, in eve
ry part of the union, whose object !s tc
celebrate the revolution in France, an evi
dent proof, that they feel themselves inte
rested in the event. The French revolu
tion is, confefledly, one of" the most mo
mentous and intcreftingto the human race
as well as one of the molt Splendid event:
which adorn and dignify the records o'
time.
The French, after having for many age:
groaned under the galling and oppreliivt
yoke of civil and religious tyranny ; aftei
having been debased and brutalized foi
centuries, in ignominious servitude, una
ble any longer to bear their chains, ant
roused by long Sufferings from the languoi
of" pajfive obedience and non-reiiftaii c£,
have rushed out of (lavcry, claimed and re'
covered li the Rights of Ulan, 11 and <
pronounced We will be free.'' Pomet
tic despotiSm has expired under the ner
vons strokes of Liberty, and the fair goel
defs, raised «n the ruins of the departee
monster, and arrayed in all her native
fpleudour, irradiates the gloom of >io
lence and opprellion.
The crimes and excefi'es, inseparable
from great commotions and popular fer
mentations are undoubtedly greatly to be
lamented, and tHo' they may call forth the
figli and tear of pity, they ought not to be
ascribed to the principle of the revolution,
nor ought they to be conftdered as the ne
cefl'ary and unavoidable consequences at
tendant upon all revolutions. They ori
ginated in the licentious phrenzy of a mob,
intoxicated with a draught to which they
had been unaccustomed ; or, it was the
opprefTed breaking their yokes on the necks
of their oppreflbrs. If we take a retrof
pea of the general tenor and Spirit ot the
condna of the French nation, we fliall fee
much to admire, and little to condemn.
At this critical moment, we fee Fiance
fired with all the enthusiasm of liberty,
engaged in the greatest, the inoft noble and
heroic attempt, hitherto made in the cause
of man. Toe generous tei be* free alone,
too humane to wifli to enjoy happiness ex
cluSively, (he melted into eompatlioji at the
Sufferings of other nations, and declared
herfelf the inveterate and irreconcilable
enemy to tyranny, and the protettrejs ol
liberty.
We are no longer to consider the Fj-ence
as engaged in a national war, merely under
the guidance of their own interests.and en
deavouring to establish their own happinet:
::lone, upon a folic! and permanent bafu
;Vo—Tliey are aauated by purer ami more
magnanimous motives. Inflamed with in
dignation at the barbarous and cruel ty
ranny of a few wicked and fanguinai y eleS
pots, called kings, over millions of then
fellow-creatures, they have Sworn to ex
tirpate the former, and difTeminate the
hit-flings of freedom among the latter.
Had they contented themselves with ac
eomplifhing their own emancipation j had
they wrapped themselves up in callous in
sensibility ; had they been Impelled by the
narrow,'illiberal and pusillanimous princi
ples of felfifhnefs ; had they beheld with
apathy and indifference, the wretchedneis
of other nations, they would not have been
a flailed on all fides by the mercenary hire
lings of enraged tyrants, who, terrified at
their own certain and approaching ruin,
and unwilling to give up their usurpations,
are exerting their utmost eli'orts, to render
abortive the feeds of freedom anil know -
ledge. —France is expofoig herfelf to the
tempests ot war; she is bleeding at evti)
pore, in the cpufe of humanity; she is fa
crtficing 'hei- own happiness to that of other
nations ; And she is left to contend alone,
maided, unsupported. againfl the united
efforts of imp-rial robbers and crowned
villainy, tlie I worn artd eternal enemies of
mankind. And (hall we, niggardly and
parsimoniously become the cold fpettators
of this great," this generous nation, who
are endeavouring to eftablilh she efl'ential
rights of humanity ? "Shall we, like (laves,
flirink from the duty imposed upon us by
gratitude? Do we exist, as a nation ? Arc
\ve free ? Are we happy ! To w lumi do
we owe that existence ? Our freedom to
whom ? Whence the source of our happi
ness ? Can we afkourfelyes these jjueftions
and not blush? Shall France be opprefed
and we free ? Forbid it virtue ! Forbid it
honour! Forbid it every manly, every no
ble sentiment, which ought to be cherried
in the bosoms of freemen ! Let us awaken
from this lifelefs, ignoble torpidity—Let
us for once ftifle the base iniiiitiations ot
interest, iiften to the voice of gratitude,
and obey the rational dictates of honour
and humanity.' In a word, let us with one
accord, step forth to the' assistance of our
benefactors. It is time that this torrent
of ferocious villainy, this crusade of bloody
despots, against the votaries and victims
of liberty,fliould be counteracted in its pro
jrefs. Let us in our individual and pri
vate capacities, endeavour to,put an end
:o this unequal and iniquitous conflict ; or
our inattention upon the present occalion,
will transmit our names to posterity with
odium, ignominy, andexecration.
I have already observed that the French
-evolution lias beeil celebrated throughout
:he union. Immense funis of money have
urcn spent in feline rejoicings for the fuc
:effes of the French revolution. Ido not
ntend, at present. to censure this manner
if exprefling our joy rnd fatisfaftion by
'efiivity, and prove how futile it is in the
rye of* rationality, I fiiall only observe,
hat, if the money which has been expend-,
'd, in thrs fellive manner, had been col
efted into one mass, the sum would not
lave been so small, as not to have been ve
v fenfiMy felt, by our fuffering benefactors,
t is not too late—Let us endeavour to
nake up for our pail neglcft—Let us open
i fubfeription, the amount of which fiiall
;e employed in filch a w ay, as fhali remove
n the fpeedielt manner the wants of a
M-ave and generous nation. Let com
nittees be appointed, in proper places,
hroughout the union for this purpofc, as
befen done in Great* Britain, though the
>nemy of France, as a nation. lam con
ident, there exists not an American free
man so ungenerous, and unfeeling, as not
o forego, with alacrity, many of his ac
:u(lomed luxuries, and even facrifice a few
if his conveniences, rather than fee a li
ltral and brave people deprelTed.
Had the French, when we were drug
ging for our liberties, exprefl'ed their ap
irobation nf our conduct by splendid and
umptuous banquets, and by quaffing burn
>ers of Champaine, accompanied with flo
•id toasts ; I fay, had the French done this,
ind left us to our own feeble etlorts,
.vhere would have been the freedom of
\merica ? Long before France, as a na
:ion, declared herfelf in our favour, how
iiany of its magnanimous and intrepid lie
■oes had alreadv dyed our shores with their
ilood ! And whom have we to put in the
lalance against these defenders of our iree
lom ? One brave, one generous, ono truly
patriotic citizen.
Alas! the spirit, the energy of freedom,
[ hope has not fled from these regions, v ith
:hofe trans-atlantic warriors, whyfefwords
ecured to us its blessings !
Approved by the Ghosts or
WARREN,
MERCER. &
MONTGOMERY •
Kote —In cities, caih will uioftly be fnb
cribe'd, but in the country, produce :
which is the very article our friends and
brethren are moll in want of.
[The different Printers in the United
States, are requested to infer: the above.]
For the National Gazette.
"The AiMERicAN Farmer, continued
from No. 142.]
Number VI.
yUCH is the dreadful pi£lure of Funding
Systems given by (owe of the firfl hilto
i-ians of the age. They are indeed accom
panied with a degree of oppreli,on on ac
count of t!ie demands of the creditors, thi.
ihev could not exist for a moment, weif
thev not fnpported by a fyOem ot financial
deception which preii'es v itli accumulated
weisrht upon the molt deflitute and help
less"part of the community. The ne.i
•md powerful would never inbmit to ex -
artions by a direst tax on their real and
personal property, which would annually
deprive them of one half of their incomes.
The labourers, the mechanics, s!nd manu
fafturer<. in England pay no direst taxes,
and vet one full half of the profits ol their
induitry is absorbed by government, by ex
cises, (lamps, and duties tin the nece laries
ot life. All oicicer of fin.-nee finds lull em
ployment '.11 deviling -ways and means to
procure money trom the people; and ha flumes merit to himfelf in proportion to
the cunning and deception made life or to
accomplish liis purposes. Under these cir
cumstances the finances become a mv-iteri
ous and impenetrable science to the citi
zens—no one knows what sums of money
are actually railed—llo one becomes ac
quainted with the manner of expenditure.
With the financier, everything is made
iribjett to the mod fordid calculation, and
nothing is esteemed worthy the attention
of government which cannot be made jub
fervient to his projects of finance. Ihe
executive officers of government and the
creditors of the state, consider the people
•isflaves, who in fafl being reduced to the
I,loft wretched state of misery and depen
dence, th-y become despised by those very
men who are supported by their daily la
bour. The increase of the wretchedness
of the labouring poor in England has been
ill a direst ratio with the public debt of
that country : so great a proportion of the
people are become objects of chanty that
the enormous sum of three millions ller
ling is annually requited for their support
and which Mr. Young fays has tor several
vears experienced an increase ot one hnn
<ired thousand poundc l.erl. per ann. A late
writer of England, who for many years
has been acquainted with every part
of that kingdom, observes, " As to the poor
labourers and working manuiaaurers they
can spend but their little all: but how mi
serable do many of them who have fami
lies live and appear now to what they did
'formerly 1 The prices of several articles ol
c+oathing, as well as the various articles of
food are much advanced : but are the poor
labourers and artificers wages, advanced
proportionably 1 In many inltances it is so
notoriously the reverie, that the necella
ries of life cannot now be purchased by
many "ood economilUof this class. isreael
111 some counties, barley or oat bread and
potatoes, are nearly all a great number of
the poor have to fublift on, and many have
not enough of that low fare to fatisfy then
hunger : whi Ift their patched and tattered
cloathing, and almolt entire nakednefsof
many, especially children, abundantly de
monstrate the extreme poverty of a very
valuable part of the inhabitants of a na
tion glorying in its profpenty, riches, and
public credit. Very few poor labourers
c 111 now Ipare so much money from their
scanty weekly earnings, as to buy a little
malt : consequently their general liquor 111
their families is water ; or, it nature some
times craves and is indulged with fome
thinf fironger, by such as labour hard, it
is purchased at a dear rate from or at pub
lic houses. It was ibrmerly the common
ciillora of the wives of labourers and arti
ficers to Durchafe 011 market days two or
three e dlons of malt, which Aould per -
haps brew tolerable good table beer for
the week; but the increajed duty and the
advanced price of barley now generally
render this impracticable. Butchers meat
upon an averages nearly if not quite don ■
ble its former price ; ths poor may looxat
it and lizh f&r it in the markets, but very
little of it must fall to the fliare ot many ol
them. I know what I fay when I allert
that uillefs it be given them, some and 1
fear many, do not taste a morsel ot butch
ers meat for many months _
The uniformity and certainty ot the e
vils arising from public credit and funding
fyltems. wherever introduced, mamtelt
that we' ought not to attribute such evils u
any mismanagement of the agents, but tc
consider them as the unavoidable conse
quence of violating* those laws of nature
which God has ordained to regulate me:
in ioci j ty ; which therefore cannot be vio
lated with impunity. Kings, priests ant
crafty financiers have been too fuccelsru
in rendering government an impenetrable
mystery to the people, and 111 eftabnlhing .
belief, that a well bom few were to enjo)
an exclusive right to be idle, to live fump
tuouQv, unjust, and to oppress then
fellow-citizens, whilst the deltmed lot ol
the people was submission, labour, and m:
fery. The veil of hypocrisy is at length rent
asunder ; and man examining things toi
himfelf, fees that these pretended rights pre
nothing but the result of injustice and de
ception. God has created men equal 1:
their rights, and in their views of enjoying
happiness. If we regard utility to man
kind as having the belt pretenhons to th:
enjoyment of such rights, the farmer, the
mechanic, and manufaaurer Ihould enjo)
them and not be opprelfed.
On whatever fide we turn our eyes, we
fee nothing in nature that is not governec
j- y laws proper to its existence, and wlnct
is not organized ill a manner to obey fuel:
law-, to acquire every succour which is a
c."Table to the nature of its bring, or ne
cefi'ary to the mode of its exiftencc. Mar
is not neglected by his Creator—the gilt*
which to him are particular, and wliicfc
give him the empire of the world, fliew
that happiness and prosperity are defigneti
for him, and an order proper to enfurehin
the enjoyment ot them. That heaven
bom French philanthropy which regard;
all mankind as brethren, is so Jar fuperiot
to the underftaudings of modern ftaiefmer
and financiers, as to be the object rather ci
'deriiion than of imitation, but which eve
* Confideratious on the cciufes of the high
price of provifious—by C. IJ/ii:ipl J /ii:ips t a bene
volei't Quaker.
ry government mutt adopt in order to be
come prosperous and happy.
The period of man's active lift? is too
fiiort, and his powers too weak to atrou
him more than a comfortable.fnpply
neccflaries of life, therefore the Superflui
ties of some men, whether acquired by ac
tual plunder or by unjust laws, mult in
fringe on the rigbrs of others : this being
actually the cafe, with what horror mult
eve it)' good citizen regard a funding sys
tem, by which a great proportion of the
labour of life fill and induttrious citizens
becomes due to a preceding generation in
their graves, and becomes payable to a tew
useless characters of their own day, whole
wealth and disorderly lives tend to corrupt
the government and undermine the libei -
ties of their country.
AN AMERICAN FARMER-.
March 12th.
■■■«—■— —
PHILADELPHIA.
March 16.
Advices of the 18th of February, receiv
ed from Dominique, via Baltimore, are,
that a frigate had arrived at that island
from England, which came out with a
large number of troopsunder the command
nf Genera] Matthews—and the greatest vi
uor was used to put the islands in u state
of defence. Three days before the failing
as the above frigate from England (which
was about the end of January) a British
Heet of 32 (hips of the line, under the com
mand of Lord Hood, failed on a cruise,
and it was reported, in England, that 35
fail of the line of French ships lay in Brest,
-eady to put to sea.supposed to be destined
for the Weft-Indies.
A bill for cftablifliing a new bank, under
;he name of the Bank of Pennfvlvania, is
now before the state Honfe of Represen
tatives. Jt is provided in rhis bill, among
>iher particulars, that the capital stock of
the fubferibers is not to exceed three mil
lions of dollars, the (hares to conlifl of four
hundred dollars each—to be opened the
third of June next in this city, for two
thousand (hares, under the direction ot
"everal persons named—three hundred
hares at Lancaster, under other directors,
and two hundred (hares at Reading, under
the direction of four persons. Its conti
luance is limited to March 4th, 1813 it
nay hold property to an amount not ex
eeding five millions of dollars —25 ditec
:ors to be chosen annually, fix by the le-
Tidature and 19 by the stockholders, at a
i-eneral meeting the firlt Monday in eveiy
February.
A committee of the legislature of the
Itate of Pennsylvania reported, on the (th
mft. in favour of the petition of the loal
aread-bakers in Philadelphia, tl that the
prices of their bread may not be limited,
or fixed, as hitherto, by law, but that thev
may be put upon the fame footing as othei
citizens in this respect, and that delinquen
cy in weights may be only puuifhable by
law." In confcquence of this report, a
committee has been appointed to bring ii
a bill for suspending, for one year, the :<d
pasTed March 18th, r:5- regulating tin
aliize of bread, and limiting the price there
of. or fubjwittng it to be fixed by the ma
gistrate ; but not taking off the penaltic:
annexed to deception in the weight there
of. We hear that this bill is to be taker
up in the lioufe of Representatives or
i'uefday next.
Letters from Port-au-Prince thus ex
plain the renewal of disturbances '111 that
quarter of Hifpaniola : —lt was discovered,
the latter end of January, that a piot hat
been formed by the blacks to affafimate all
the whites and mulattoes : This discover)
nccafioned a union of the two last mention
ed delcriptions, who marched out to pre
vent the intended attack of the negroes.
\ cordial reception by the blacks perfeai}
deceived the citizens, who marched, free
of suspicion, seven leagues from Port-au-
Prince, where they encamped to wait for
a convoy of provisions escorted by jc
men and one piece of artillery. Ihe con
voy had not advanced quite two leagues
from Port-au-Prince when it waslurroun
ded by two thousand negroes, who disar
med, and malfacred all except eight who,
beinn- mounted, made their escape. Lpon
the news of this massacre another body of
troops, of the whites, marched out, attac-K
---ed the enemy, and in less than an hour
cut to pieces (ix hundred of them, and two
days after 70 more. In their retreat,
however, the negroes set fire to an extent
often leagues of sugar canes, and in a few
hours reduced to alhes several millions ol
property.
The lepiflature of the state of New-'i ork
adjourned on Tuesday lad, to meet on t;ie
firlt Tuesday in January next, in the city
of Albany.
William Barry Grove. Ffq. is unani
moll fly re-elected a member of the houte
of Representatives of the Lnited Statesfur
the dill rift of Fayetteville, in North-Carq
lina ; and James Gillafpie, Elq- for the dis
trict of Wilmington, in the fame state.
William S. Dawfon is eletted alio a repre
sentative for diftrift No. 8 ; and 1 homas
Blount, for diftrift No. 9, Norfli-Carolina.
The Kentucky papers mention a number
ofhorfe thefts and murders to have been
compiitted by small parties ofhoitile In
dian?. in those parts (particularly in the
neighbourhood of Kclhville) during the
months of December and January. In
some inflances helpless families have been
deprived of their friends and relations, i.
others, fanners wholly plundered ol thei:
horses and cattle, houses burnt, and pro
perty laid wafle by these unprincipled in
vaders. The Shawanefe, the old and in
veterate enemy of the United States, have
Tome time (ince dispatched an embafly tc
ilieCherokees and Cho&aws, exciting then
to go to war, and communicating a resolu
tion of their intention to cut off the Chick
afaws for joining the army of General St
Clair in 1791.
A writer in the Alexandria Gazette o:
lall Saturday fliould be careful how Ik
:racks his jokes upon religion. Talking
if the multiplicity of religious feels, he pro
>oses the following plan of general re
:onciiiation : "It appears from the bei
•vidences I have heard, that the Romai
Catholic religion was the firft after the pro
nulgation of Chi iflianity, from which al
jthers have branched out. Now ifthcfirl
,vas called the National Bank, and the o
:hers branches, or cfjices of difeount anc
lepofet, and the people at large agree thai
lepofits in either were equally fafe, an<
hat the genuine notes of all fliould havt
he fame value—it would, no doubt, brine
ibout a general accommodation of thai
übjeft."
Mr. Ruflel, printer of the Boflon Centi
lel, in one of his late papers, rakes the li
jerty of applying the word Penjinner, ac
cording to his whira—Chiere, whether ii
.vould not be more 111 his power to gi\ e the
mbiic an easy anil familiar explanation
>f the term, Trimmer ?
" The American Cents (fays a letter from
S T ewark) do not answer our expectation.
The chain on the reverse is but a bad omen
"or liberty, and liberty herfelf appears to be
n a fright—May (lie not juflly cry out in
he words of the apotlle, " Alexander, the
nfper-Jmith, hath done me much harm ,
lie Lord reward him accirding to his
uorks
Letters from Lilbon to Jan. 9, mention
i report there, th it England, Spain, anc;
'ortngal, the Dutch and the several Iraliai:
States have :dded themselves to the Ger
nan alliance against France. Eight fhip 1
if the line and fix frigates were getting
eady for service, at Lilbon, at the above
late. American merchants are warned tc
hip nothing in French veflels, as there i<
» V ery risque of their being taken. In cajt
>t"a general war, (they-add) the America;
kr'g u ill probably be refpecled, and thei 1
eflels gcuerally employed in the carrying
rade.
Accounts from to the r6th 01
[anuary,fay nothing new, except the fail
tig of iix or leven Dutch men of war, and
bme finaller armed veflels, dcftined lot
he Scheldt. It did not appear, however,
hat their object was to interrupt the
-'renc.li frigates that had previously gone
lp to Antwerp. Other accounts, fron
London (via Norfolk) slate, that <>reat-
Britain had acceded to the combination a
rainft France ; the ostensible cause.the fup
jort of other European nations in theii
-johts and independence against the in
ringements of the French republic.
About a month ago, fuperhne "our \\ a:
at Cape-Francois from 6 to 6 [-2 dollars pel
rarrel, and riling—Coffee from 19 to 2c
bus per lb. and very fcarce—Molafl'e:
carcely to be had at any raw—4oo negroe:
rad recently been killed in an engagemenl
Tear the Cape, and 400 taken prisoners.
Ehe plains to an extent of 70 or 80 lr.ile:
from the Cape were entirely clear ol tiit
nlurgents 011 the middle of February.
The following resolutions are publifhcd ir
he Ch lefton City-Gazette oi the 2zd ult.
Rej I >.!, ill. That iii our opinion tht
jrii-'i '<■ Society and human aiteirs, a.»d
] 1C ° , 1- of government, have ol
hemd l'■ ' a tendency and drift fnfficieiulj
troi. to produce lilen' and increalinc
lifparities between one dtizen and alio
her, or high and low, rich and poor,
•vi tit out mpioying politive dillintt on- anc
political manoeiivres to halleli thole una
voidable conditions.
Rejohed, 2dly. That the titles of ma
-sty lord, sultan : or mogul, excellency,
lonbrable or esquire, are very nfelefs,
-hou n h very pompous founds, conducive
lotto national dignity or public order
jut to the degeneracy of the people ; anc
:hat in the highest ftationt of public em
ployment, talents, information, and integ
rity are qualifications fufheient to inture
obedience to the laws, and refpeft to tht
magillrate, without the aid ot oftentatiou:
titles, or any political nmjnn ery or trick
whatsoever.
Btjofoed ; jdly, That we will not Here
after address any of our fellow citizens
let his office 01* Itation be what it may,
(except militia ofucers while in ihe field ,
hv any other title than that ol Citizen n
Miller ; and that we will ciifv our-.-ge an
titular address to ourselves, as well as to
others., _ . ,
N. B. Tt is hoped and expetrecl, thct
our principal mapflrat.es \yiil fubficil-e
and Aipport the above refbhttions. To af
ford them an opportunity of doing so. it is
intended to leave a printed copy of the a
bove declaration in each of the offices of
the secretary, and with theclerks ot the
courts in the city and country, in artier than
the resolutions may be adopted generally.
from a RicHmond paper (being an extract
' of a letter Irom a member ot Congref?
in Philadelphia to his friend in Rich-.
inond.)
The politics liere are to the lalt degree
difgufling—every principle ot repyefenta
tive government is violated ; instead
reeling like and a£ting for the benefit ot
the bulk of citizens, Congrtfs are influen
ced by a monied and speculating interclr,
which not only bears hard upon all the In
bouring ci;:lTes ot the vhoie coinmnnity,
jut afflicts those of the southern ttates with
exclulive cruelty. As their primum
bile of government reiide chiefly in tile
northern llates, the evil can never be re
moved, pnlefsaU dec':: will, witli
the moll fufpki ,iu caution, avo;c; e\cry
man, wlio (hail c\cn smell ot certificates,
itock, or p jper ?>i any kind.
I am in a ftaie of repentance for having
come to a place, exhibiting every moment
o my view the fallacy of apparent patriot
fin ; the rapacity of many who ought to
ae difinterelled. and the ptior chance the
uiblic will stand, agaiufl the machinations
if a few individuals. But iftiieagricultu
*al people wouid attend to their interclt
ind eletl proper men, these dreadful il*
.vould foou be remedied."
Seasonable Refi.-sctions.
1. Men of exorbitant ambition. — They
ire dangerous in every government, and
:annot betoo narrowly watched, efpecial
y when advanced to important Uufls and
employments. With such, the fancied
>rerogatives of rank involve a contempt of
ileful and induflrious citizens. Er.dlefs
ire the disguises these dignitv-ri:en : flume
0 compass their favorite objects ; and tin
ier the garb of humility they not lu.fre
[iiently conceal the cruel and tyrannical,
leart, watching an opportunity to fubjeft
he public interest to its own feUifh pur*
jofes.
2. There are more marks than one by
.vhich this counterfeit humility may be
leteifed ; when we find a man, or men,
n office extremely solicitous for the honor
-1 rid glory of government, let us fuipeft.
hem—hi i"\?ri funt, hos tit, /hnen\ane %
aveto. By the honor and glory of ro
ernment they mean merely the convert
ng the strength of a nation to tlrejr private
>enefit, to advance their own fame, or tr>,
tep into the high elbow-chair of regal
lignity—away, then, with these holier
md-glory-men
3. There are some g'eniuffes who are
holly careless of the hapainefs, tlic liber
v, or the political condition of thejeof/e,
irovided the government can be Hocked
■vith a fufficient quantum of these fame
ommodities called honor and rjory, as il
he end of all government were not the
rood of the people, and not the people crc*
ited for the fplendcur of the government
4 A wife nation will always prefuibe to
heir ministers the _prccife line ot duty,
md leave nothing to the deviations of p.iu
nition : which even in its pretensions tQ
rood is rarely without fomelin'tfter defipn,
urking under cover ot discretionary li«
:ence.
5. Happy is it for a people, when vanity
iroves a traitor to ambition, Which then
lefeats its own views by a certain intoler
ible arrogance of afiumption.—Hence, if
1 country bv a combination of favourable
rircnmftances, or the colledled good fen ft;
>f inhabitants, has extricated itfelf
rorn a few embarrassments, \\ e shall gene-,
•ally find some reltlefs spirit (tar,ding rea
!y to afi'ume the honour, and by the aid of
ycophantic contributions in prole and
,'erfe, vainly arrogating to itfelf the reflo-
Mtion of public credit, the 1 1 lib ot the
>ody politic, the confidence of nations—
r.id labouring to impress a bel.efthat e\e;i
ntegrity anil honour exilt only upon the
mny fiioulders of some felf important indi
vidual.
6. A man's friends may fometimc, >11
he frenzy ot'i'.t.-refled friendfiiip,go great -
:r lengths in his exculpation, than he
vould perhaps thank them for doing. The
Fable of the,bear taking up a large (tone to
cill the wasp that had lodged upon the face
yf sleeping matter, is not without its
moral. (Poor fellow !—but let us rift
alame him : it was the work of a moment)
—But in political affairs for a man to go In
far as to deny what the person, meant to
be exculpated, bus plainly and unecjnivo
i ally aflerted, and vice vena, is intolcral U .
—Memorable v-as the faying of Dionvihi .
[in a well known occalion to his toad-caters
My friends, by all the gods, i: yois
mean not to put me on the rack, I prav
you fay no more foft things in my vindica -
tion."
I
*»* MONITOR fhallappear in or.rnext,
PRICE OF S T O' C K S.
S'x Per Cenrs I ' -
Tliret- I'tr Cents
Deferred "/♦
I>ink us States 12 r l *
B. N. Anr.n\» " J--ons. Since the'ofTicer remains unpnniflied,
it is a proof that his conduct has met th
approbation of his principal;in fho-t,hefaid
thehoufc criminate thePrcfidentunlefs they
acquit the Secretary, the house by declar
ing that the Secretary adted without ii
flruftions, declare, that the President has
either neglected or been ignorant of his
duty.
It is a strange supposition, he said, that
the President should not know that the
Secretary was drawing for part ofihe mo
r,ies borrowed in Europe, when not a mer
chant was ignorant of it. Was it neces
sary for the President to have frequented
the cofFee-houfe, as he had been advised by
some of his friends in the pubiic papers,
to have been acquainted with thisfaft, he
sfked ? he imagined not. The Secretary
migpt have received verbal inftruftions on
the fubjeft of the drafts, and what obliged
him to communicate thefc ? He is only
ordered to communicate a copy of his in
ftruftions—this Mr. Smith contended,
could only extend to written inftruftions.
But if he did not receive even verbal, he
had then a discretionary power.
It was, he conceived, thebulinefs of the
President to fee whether the provisions of
the law, the execution of which had been
committed to his charge, had been com
plied with by his agent, and she house had
no right to alk the President whether he
gave inftruftions or rot to the Secretary.
But even if he had received no instruc
tions—he contended there was no need of
any. The law does not require that the'
money be. drawn and applied by the Presi
dent. A3 Coon as the money was borrow
ed it came of course under the fuperinten
danceofthe Secretary as the constituted
financier. Heremaiked, that neither did
the ast fpecify any particular place where
it should be borrowed, nor whither it should
be drawn, to be paid—this was left to the
discretion of the executive officer.
If the other charges are as easily refu
ted as these, and lie believed they are, the
character of the Secretary would lland fair
indeed ; be would not Hand charged with
any ast difgraceful to the man of the pu
reft integrity, and he believed that he
would in the ifTue rife above every calumny
as fair as the purest angel in heaven.
He concluded by observing, that if
there is a sword ofjufticeto punish public
delinquents, he hoped there would be
found a shield of justice to defend public
characters from injurious charges. Those.
he had just discussed could not, he concei
ved, stand after a candid enquiry, and no
evidence is brought forward that can sup
port them.
Mr. Hillhoufe argued, that the interest
paid was not paid out of the 2,000,00 c
loan ; and that the drafts were made a
greeably to the direftio«s of the Presi
dent. He (hewed this by the documents
which had been already referred to.
He put in a clear point of view the pro
priety of avoiding the expence and risque
ps drafts and correspondent remittances,
an.d concluded by giving his approbation
to tiV conduct of the Secretary in the
tranfadv '° ns complained of, and by expres
sing it as his firm belief that a majority of
the comma'tee, from the evidence before
them, would undoubtedly be of opinion,
that the charges brought forward are un
founded."
Mr. Sedgwick rose to- correct a mistake
of Mr. Mercer's. That gentleman had
aflerted, that the Secretary had drawn on
Europe, before the loan obtained by the
commissioners under the old •government
was ratified. This was not the cafe, he
fai!. The loan had been ratified in pur
suance of the provisions of the ast authori
zing it. The President, in his speech on
the Bth of December 1790, fays, " that
agreeably to the powers veiled in him at
the last session, the loans in Holland had
been completed."
By exilting acts of the legislature, and
from express communications from the.
Secretary of the Treasury it appears, that
all the monies borrowed were deemed bor
rowed under the joint authority of both
acts, and not to be solely appropriated for
the payment of the foreign debt.
Mr. Mercer explained, that he had said,
that the Secretary had drawn from the
loan obtained under the authority of the
©Id government, before said loan was le
galized by law. If the legislature had the
right to legalize it, they had the right to
reject it."
Mr. Lee next rose.
He observed that as he found himfelf
under the necefiity of differing from his;
friend who had moved the resolution, with ,
whom h? generally agreed in opinion, and
was aecuftomed to ast, he begged the at
tention of the committee for a few mi
nutes. Mr. Lee observed,
To determine whether the Secretary of
the Treasury had acted legally, it was ne
ctflary to examine whether the authority
from the President and his subsequent in
llruftions authorized him to confoiidate
the loans under the acts 'of the 4th and
12th August, j 790.
On this queltion Mr. Lee observed, that
there seemed to be no obj ftion to fucli a
conftruftion, except that which arose from
the difference of interest allowed by those
acts. That the firll loan was commenced
without any regular authority by a com
pany in Amlterdam—that it received its
authenticity from the acceptance of the
Secretary of the Treasury. The interest
and douceurs on this loan amounled to
more than an interest of five per cent,
which was the only premium contempla
ted by the ast of the 12th of August.—
It could consequently be accepted only
under the ast of the 4th of August, which
gave no limitation to the interest which
was to be allowed. This money seemed
therefore solely applicable to the payment
of the fore'gn debt. Froin his report of
the 24th of February 1791, the Secretary
himfelf seemed to have had this impreflion.
Congress seemed also to have had this im
preflion, as on the 3d of March following
they pasTed an ast authorising the applica
tion of this loan to the object of the ast
of the 12th August 1790. After the 3d
of March 1791, therefore, the Secretary
of the Treasury had a right to bring this
money to America for the purposes of the
finking fund. The interest of the foreign
debt becoming due, for which domestic
revenues were pledged, he thought it
prudent to pay that interest out of this
loan, relying on the domestic revenues to
replace it for the purposes of the finking
fund. This was a mode of bringing the
money here, and he was not limited in
his discretion as to the mode ; an 1 there
fore had a right to follow that whicl) ap
peared to him moll advantageous The
paying of the foreign interest out of this
loan was made after the 3d March, J 791.
Mr. Lee had no doubt as to the legality
of all the proceedings relative to monies
drawn to this country subsequent to the
3d of March 1791 —even the monies bor
rowed for the foreign debt, because an
higher interest than five per crnt. was sti
pulated for, on any of the subsequent leans,
and because the President in his instruc
tions to the Secretary, leaves the mode of
paying the foreign debt to his discretion.
If he judged it for the advantage of the
United States to bring this money, in
the firft place, to America, the legality of
such a measure cannot be queflioned, tho'
the economy and wisdom of it may not
be admitted. On this point Mr Lee ac
knowledged, that he had not time to ex
amine minutely all the statements and re
ports of the Secretary, to judge of those
exigencies which induced the drawing of
all the money which had been drawn to
America.
Whether it had been confident or not
with the interest of the United States, Mr.
Lee was of opinion, that the Secretary
had legally a right to bring all the money
he had drawn for to America, except what
was drawn prior to the 3d of March 1791.
This money was drawn out of the firft
loan ; it was drawn, as declared, for the
finking fund j the firft loan, for the rea
sons before stated, could not be applied,
and consequently, till the ast of the 3d of
March, I 791, this money could not be le
gally drawn for to the finking fund. Per
haps this ast caused the irregularity of
this proceeding.
But is not the Secretary of the Trea
fury fubjeft to blame ? Mr. Lee observed
be thought he was not altogether free
from it. At the meeting of Congress on
the Bth day of Dcc. 1790, the President in
his speech informed both houses, that the
filfl loan had been accepted, and that the
Secretary of the Treasury had directions
to lay the partu ulars before them—But
what did he do ? On the 15th of Dec.
following, he began to'draw money on ac- 1
count of this loan to America, for the
finking fund ; though from his report on I
the 24th of Feb. 1 791 he appears to have '
had a doubt as to the legality of this pro- I
ceeding—he delayed giving information, 1
in conformity to the Prefidcnt's fpeeeh, till <
a few days before the diflblution of Con- ;
grefs. This conduct, Mr. Lee said, seem- ;
ed to argue a dillruft of the legislative t
councils. Mr. Lee dilated on the nectf- i
I fity of the pure (I and mcft conudcntial
• communication between the Secretary of
the Treasury & the Legislature ; and /aid,
though he could not agree to the refolu-
F tion then under consideration, there was
- one, subsequent to it, iclating to this
r point, which he was sorry to find himfelf |
- under the necdTitv of voting for"
Mr. Boudinot considered it as the duty
I of the committee in the discussion of the
charges brought forward to confine t' em
t fclvcs ftri&ly to tlie points in quellion.
i The present examination differed from or
i dinary legislative business. Specific char
' ges are brought forward against a highly
I responsible officer ; the facts brought for
• ward to support those charges Ihould be
: understood and considered, to form a right
■ judgment on them. The Secretary is
charged with having violated a law by
i paying the interest due on a loan oßt of
the principal of that loan. He went into
■ some statements and calculations to shew,
that the moHey paid on account of foreign
loans, as Hated in official documents, could
not have been paid on account of interest
of the late loans, from the difpropoition
of the films.
He need fay nothing more, he conceiv
ed, to shew that the firft charge io the re
solution immediately before the committee,
is unfounded. If what he said was not
fufficient to disprove it, he alked where 16
the evidence to support it ?
He next turned to the second charge in
the resolution ; viz. that the Secretary had
1 made the drafts complained of without the
Prtfident's inftruftions. Here he noticed
; a mistake some gentlemen had fallen into,
• when speaking of the call of the house for
information ; this was a request to ihe Pre-
Gdent, and not an order to the Secretary.
From the information communicated in
i consequence of this call it did not appear,
that the Secretary had adled without, or
contrary to inftruftions, and he infilled,
that he ought to be presumed innocent till
he was proved to be guilty.
He argued, that the authority given to
the President in the business, put it in his
power to draw the whole 14 millions to
this country, if he thought fit; it could not
therefore, be contended, he insisted, that
the amount of the drafts, had pafled the
limits of the authority given. It is not
denied, he proceeded, that there was a
right t® draw for the two millions appro
priated for the redu&ion of the public
debt—well, it has appeared, on a certain
occasion, to the house, that our minister
in France, negociated a contrast with the
National Assembly, or their officers, for
the payment of 800,000 dollars of the debt
due them here; then certainly the exigency
of the cafe required that this sum should
be drawn here for the purchase of provi
sions for St. Domingo, in which this pay
ment was to be made. Here then was a
positive necessity of drawing for 2,800,000
dollars, and as a discretionary power in the
business had been left to the executive,
they might have found it advifeable, per
haps, under an expe&ation of additional
payments in the fame manner, to have
drawn over as much more as they might
have thought prudent.
He adverted to the application of the
Secretary to the legislature to declare whe
ther the loan obtained, for an interest of 5
per cent, exclusive of douceurs, might be
considered as borrowed under the autho
rity of the 2,000,000 aih It was his
(Mr. Boudinot's) opinion, at the time,
that no explanatory law was necessary; and
that tne executive had power to conltrue
the ast in that sense. This was also the
Secretary's opinion, and in consequence of
that opinion, he had drawn bills. He
thought it however right to apply to the
house and have every doubt removed, and
the legislature fanftioned his conllru&ion
of the law.
It had been said, that if the legislature
had a right to confirm, they alio had a
right to reject the conllruftion put upon
the law by the execuiive. Tiik he con
ceived, they would not have been war
ranted in doing, after acontradl, agreeably .
! to that conftrudlion, had been made—such
a proceeding mult have involved a breac>i
of eontraft. '
It had been repeatedly gflerted, and
strenuously insisted on, that the legislature ,
were totally in the dark, as to the drafts
from Europe. To d fprove this assertion, ■
he read fevcral items from sundry reports
of the Secretary, where sums received 011 /
account of loans are fpecilied. It had V
also been said, that there was no evidence '
that any part of the loan was applied to, or
intended for the purchase of the pubic
1 j debt. This alio appears unfounticd from
f a note, dated the 25th of August, 1790.
, laid before the trustees for purcliafing of
- the public debt, which expressly mentions,
s that a loan had been negociated, pait of
> which wasdeflined for the purchase of the
f public debt, and that some points relative
thereto were before the Prcfident for Lis
' approbation. This also (hewed that the
; President had knowledge of fuchinten
• tions. His speech and the report of the
. Secretary in confluence of part of that
- speech, which had been so repeatedly re
ferred to, alio unequivocally prove this
' point.
He recapitulated the heads of hisargu
: ments, and concluded that if nothing fur
t ther could be brought in support of the
5 charges now betore the committee
■ mould have his decided negative,
f The committee then rose, reported pro
> grefs and obtained leave to fit again in the
, Evening. Then the Koufe adjourned.
1 (To be cotitinued.)
I -
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.
March 1793.
D, 11 Bar. Ther. | -7' UI.
Tuesday, 5. 5 19. 4< 51 1 S-.V. Rain.
2 io- 6 52 W. Fair.
WednrJJay, 6. 7 30. 5 3; N N WFair.
2 lo 3 ,50 S. W do.
Tburjduy, 7, ; ~ 7 3.) vVSVV. Fair.
i 2 29. p<; 62 S. W.I do.
briday, i. 7 29. J5 ~ Cloudy.
2 2Q. 60 S. Rain.
Saturday, 9 , 29. 6 ; 26 N. VV. Tan
2 30. c 41 do. j do.
Sunday, iv. 7 30. 5 29 N.NU.ifo/r
2 30. 51 S. Wn
Monday, 11.7 30. 33 43 s Rain.
2 2 9- 7} 55 1 do- do.
" " ■ ' Hi
The Barracks in Perth Amboy,
Late the property of Major Richard Lloyd,
Deccqjed,
berxpofed to public sale on Monday
the firft day ot .April next at the house of-
John Thompson in Perth Amboy aforefaid ; said
barracks arc an elegant large brick building,
containing about 30 rocms, the middle house of
which is three stories high—They are finely fitu
-1 ated commanding a beautiful profpedt of the
1 town and surrounding waters—the lot on which
ihey stand, contains aboi/t one acre and an half in
which are two wells of excellent water—At the
fame time and place will be fold a water lot
and dock lot lying in Perth Amboy aforefaid-—
for all which good lilies (by virtue of an order
of rhe Orphan court of the'courity of Middlesex)
will be given by
WILLTAM LLOYD.
NA'l haniel ker.
siumir.'ijlrator j.
A Hen town, Monmouth county, heo. 25, 1793.
At.law.
FOR SALE.
THE Subscriber wilhes to fell the HOUSE
and LOT in Princeton, now in the tenure
of William Worth y it is an eligible stand, either
for a private family or a tradesman, being' situated
on the North lidr of the street, near the centre of
the town, and a little east of the market house—
The lot contains forty-two feet in front, and up
wards of two hundred feet in. depth ; on the pre.
miles is eredHd, and in good tenantable order, a
two ftorv dwelling house, twenty feet front by 26
in depth ; two rooms on the lower floor, with an
entry fix feet wide j three rooms on the second
floor, and a room in the garret, lathed and plas
tered. In the rear of the house, and adjoining
thereto, is a large kitchen, and the cellar extends
under the wi'iole of the house. ]n the yard, there
is a well of excellent water—the yard and garden
are enclosed with a good pale fence. This house
and lot rn ght be an object to some gentleman who
might wiflr to educate his children either at the
College or the I.atin or English schools, whicU
are conduced upon an improved plan-—The title
is indisputable, and pofTefiion may be had the firft
of April. For terms apply, ts the fublcriber is
Princeton. v
JARED SEXTON.
PRINCETON, Feb. 28. 4 w2aw
THREE POUNDS REWARD.
RUN AW A V from the fublcriber, on Sun
day The 13th of January, an apprentice
lad to the blackfrniths bufmefs, named John Lay
tan, about eighteen years of age, five feet three
or four ?nches high, had cn when he went away,
a half worn fopctfine brown coat, a fiort drab
(urtout , buff cafiim«r breeches a little faded,
.vorfted stockings, his ihoes tied with black wor
ked firings ■, he is remarkably fond of itrong li
quof, is very talkative when a little intoxicated,
and speaks with a coarse strong voice ; whoever
apprehends said apprentice and feeures him, (hall
have the above reward, and if brought home, rea
onable charges paid.
ISAAC WOODLAND.
Georgetown, Kent county, Cross Roads, Ma
ryUnd Feb. 4, 1793 law.
For fate, at the printing office, a few copies
of the fir (I volume of the National Gazette.
PRINTED BY
CIIILDS and SWAINE,
AT THEJROFFICE N0;209, HIGH-STRE2T,
NEAR FIFTH-STR t ET,
PHILADELPHIA.