Numb. 39 of Vor_. ll.] - WEDNESDAY, March 14, 1793-
For tk; National Gazette
To the PRESIDENT of the UNITED
STATES.
SIR,
%/OU are again called to execute the high
and dignified trull of a firll magiltrate
of a free people, anil that by unanimous
ronfent. I his is the greatest homage that
If i be paid by freemen, and is the molt
fettering diltinition which can be offered
in a land of liberty.—As the friend of free
dom you were resorted to, and placed in a
sphere which mult communicate the mod
exquisite gratification to a mind that sym
pathizes in the happiness of man—Partici
pating in the general blessings which your
i'ervices, aided by the exertionsof the pa
triots of America, have dispensed, you have
an opportunity of giving a zeit to your
portion of enjoyment by a rigid exercile
of the duties which are annexed to your
station, and an attentive guurdianihip over
the privileges that the Revolution has be
llowed—your duties are important, your
ilation is delicate, and your example ol in
finite confequence —Americans have done
ample jnftice to your merits and to your
virtues ; they have rewaided them with
their affections, and ha ve given you the firfl
place among freemen ; their affections and
their gratitude will call forth the liveliest
feelings to theirinterefts and to their willi
es, and preclude eveiy exercise of fnperi
ority w liich can give diffurbance to their
confidence or tranquility—Equality is the
foul, & Simplicity the ornament of 3 republi
can government ; whatever has a tenden
cy to affect the living principle or to deck
it with falfe or fantaftic ornament, 11.lilt
excite abhorrence in the man of the people.
We have made an experiment in politics
which is a phenomenon in the hiilory of
human nature, let us perfefl otir system
.vjd baiiixh t'- ' t.-nn as well as the CublUnce
«f governments founded on inequality,
andgive a lelfon to the world of rulers and
ruled being of one family, having one wiJli
and one intgrell; and having no hostility
but for the enemies of their country —you
have this day given a specimen of republi
tanifin which will chafe away every jea
lousy if perlifted in, and as I have been the
firft to comment upon the afl'umption of
diltin£tion, in julliceto you and to my own
feelings, I will be the firft to approve—let
not the freedom of the stile 111 which I
address you be conllrtied intoprefumption,
it is the language of liberty, and cannot
offend a freemen —The foft accents of flat
tery belong to the eunuchs of a court,
the republican mind knows not to cull
the flowers from the green house of mo
narchy.—Tho' I disdain to flatter, it is a
relief to my mind to give merit and virtue
their due, after having arraigned their
weaknell'es at a bar not less scrupulous
than that of Rhadamanthus, the bur of re
•publicanifm ; and as I conceive it human
ts> err, I fhoulfl consider it as the error of
a great mind if the specimen of this day
should matvifeft itfelf in actions of another
kind, and the beginning of yourfecond ad
ininiftration should prove the end of every
royal cultom.—Pomp, parade and l'aflidi
ous dijlance are the enligns of royalty to
cover wcaknefs, and very often vice ; the
mind fortified by virtue & dignified by in
tellect, needs not the trappings ofa butter
fly to command refpeS or ailmini(lr; tion ;
true worth encreafe • our refpeel and ef
teemthe nearer we approach it, and the
wore we are familiarized to it ; fictitious
qualities alone should retreat behind cere
' inony and reserve, as a shelter from dis
grace anil contempt —your fame can ac
quire no addition, your character no in
creale ; already have they received their
tribir - even from the encmiesof our coun
try ; nothing is therefore wanting to your
£,loVy, nothing is requisite to makeyou live
, iii every American heart, but adeportment
in unison with the principles of our govern
ment—your conduit 011 this day has im
prefled inc with this anticipation, that the
simplicity which has heretofore marked
your character will again manifelt itfelf,
and every jealous republican spirit will be
liuflied into peaie, by this accommodation
to their feelings—thefplendour of a court
suits not the meridian of the United States,
and fnit- not the meridian of your mind,
which c'elipi;rs in simplicity and tranqui
lity Americans have emancipated theiv
felvcs from the trammels of monarchical
falhion. as ell as from the trammels of
monarchical government, and they would
be inclined to suppose that every attempt
' to introduce the one, would be but as the
Jiarbingtr of the other; they art therefore
By P. FRENE A U: Pubhjhcd Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
alarmed at every appearance of inequali
ty—in you, fir, their hopes, their affecti
ons. and their confidence center, and they
feel a perfusion, that your heart will keep
pace v. ith their wishes, and your actions
with their feelings.
MIRAB E A U.
March 4th, 1793.
Debate on the Official Conduct of the Se
cretary of the Treasury, (continued
from our last.)
Friday, March 1.
Mr. Sedgwick opened the debate, by
:alling for the reading of a letter from the
secretary of the Treasury to Mr. Short,
jf thefirft of September 1790, /hewing the
ibjefls and general views of the Secretary,
dative to the negociation of the loans
inder the two a£ts authorizing them.
Mr. Bar/lu's/i, then rose, and addrelfed
he chairman as follows : —
Before I proceed to discuss the obferva
ions which yeflerday fell from the gen
lemen who introduced the refolutionsnow
>efore us, I cannot refrain from faying,
hat I am extremely happy, that in palling
through the medium of that gentleman's
examination, this fubjefl: has changed its
luefrom the foul stain of peculation to
he milder colouring of an Illegal exercise
if discretion and a want of politeness in
he Secretary of the treasury. I feel hap
ty because I always am so when any tnan
narged with guilt can acquit himfelf; and
lie more so now when a man in a high ref
jonfible office aud high in the estimation of
lis countrymen, can reduce a charge from
i quality calculated to have excited an
ilarm, even in Pandemonium, to such a
h ipe as I fancy will scarce serve to fitif
"y the uncommon cnriofity which it ap
pears to have excited. As. I have never
ifeivin the habit of talcing nojes, I ihall
lepend upon memory in answering the gen -
;leman from Virginia : although I imagine
as that gentleman usually flicks very close
10 his point, whatever it may be, that in
3urfuingl«s charges 1 shall substantially an
swer his arguments. In commenting np
-311 the two firfl resolutions to which I am
iy order confined, I shall consider in the
Srft instance, what regards the right of
Jrawing money into this country—the gen
leniau appears not to have considered tiie
aw properly, for there cannot be a doubt
that the President had a right to nnke what
irrangements he pleafcd in order to attain
ivhat he might consider a proper modifica
tion of the debt due by the United States
abroad ; he might have borrowed the mo
ney here or have paid here ; he might have
borrowed the money in England, or wher
ever he thought fit. I will alk the gentle
man by what precise authority he borrow
ed the money in Amlterdam and Antwerp
anil paid it in Paris ; certainly by none,
but that discretion which has been depend
ed upon to modify the debt in the manner
most copducive to the Jntereft of the Unit
ed States. I take it then for granted, Mr.
Chairman, that the right of the President
to draw the money borrowed hero, or to
fend it any where mull be conceded : The
quellion will then arise, whether the Se
cretary of the Treasury had aright to do
this or 110, and whether this lias not been
done without, nay, ngainft the inftruftions
of the President. I really consider this as
one of the mo£- extraordinary cases that I
have ever known exhibited. Let us con
sider its form ; a highly important trufi of
no lefl'er import than the discretionary use
of i4,ooo,ccoof dollars is placed in the
President of the United States. He hv a
general commission and by special instruc
tions, deputes this power to the Secretary
of the Treasury, dating that he is to con
form to these and whatever inftrufHons lie
might from time to time give him. Let
any man seriously examine these powers,
and ] am of opinion thattheSecretary un
der these had a right to draw if he thought
proper, unlcfs inlfruffed to the contrary :
l-'or the President conveys a compleat pow
er to modify the debt, provided that it
fhonld be with all convenient dispatch ap
plied to pay the principal and interelf due
to France ; for where the payments are to
be made, is certainly left to the Secreta
ry. If this has not been exercised aclvanta
:;eoiifly this is another circurtiflance which
the gentleman himfelf has not queflioned.
But fays the gentleman, the Secretary un
der these inilruclions had no special autho
rity toxlraw, notwithstanding which he be
wail to draw in 1790 and has continued to
draw at different times into this country
the enormous sum oi" 3,000,000 of dollars,
and therefore he fjluft havedone this with
out, nay, againfl: the inftruitions of the
President, who it is prelnmed having dele
gate! this great trult, has .never for three
years enquired into the performance ot it.
Can this be the inference of common
fenfei—can this be the inference of the ex
perience which we have had of the Preii
dent, one of the prominent features o!
whqft character always has been an indus
try ki? investigate particulars, as remarka
ble as hi? lagacity to frame generals. 11
then in!lru£iions have not been given 01
have been exceeded, was it necellary 101
us to come in aid of the President, he whe
by our law has the power which we onr
lelves cannot exercise of removing any o]
the executive officers ot pleasure ; it cer
tainly cannot be neceflary ; for as this of
ficer continues to ail, we mull conclude
thathe has either acted by infh uflions, 01
in ftich manner as to have given fatisfa&i
sn to his principal without them. Really
Mr. Chairman, I cannot but believe thai
if suspicion had not led the gentleman fron
Virginia allray, the usual corre&nefs 01
liis undcrflanding would have preventet
!iim from pursuing such an ignis fatuc
is this.
Thus fir I think I hive (hewn that th<
Preiident of the United States certain!;
the authority to draw the funis bor
-owed here, and that both under his com
million and his inflruftions given, and ine
vitably implied, the Secretary hadalfatlii
jower, to do this. I (hall therefore nov
>roceed to a more special coniideration o
:he firft charge, that the Secretary has vi
jlated the law in applying a portion of tin
principal borrowed to the payment ot tin
inteccll failing due upon that principal
which was not authorised by law.
Bfffare I proceed, Mr. Chairman,
ivotid wish to remark, that whiilt 1 con
lider-jio principle in legislation more cor
that no money fliall be draw:
from the Treai'urv but under ap|tropffati
3ns by law; yet I conftder, both as imprac
ticable and mifch'revous, the dottrine, tha
the money arilii'.g from a special tax fell
in 110 inllaaice be used for any other thai
iliat special purpose for which the Tax vva
mpofed, but am of opinion that the I lira
-ailed ought rather to be conlidered as ai
aggregate fund-applicable to aggregate pur
Doses, and indeed if a rigid adherence t<
:!ieprecife letter of the law is uecefl'ar
:here has been no occalion to go abroad t<
"earch for violations ; for our governmen
it home has been able to a£t only by thi
violation. It is well known, that the du
:ies of impolt andtonnage are appropriate
iril to produce the sum of 600,000 dollar
for the civil lid, then to pay the interell o:
the foreign debt and so on ; so that by ;
rigid observance of this law the fecretan
niuft have firll collecled the 600,000d015. ii
Co the public coffers & then a sum futiicien
to pay the interell of the foreign debt, ;
process which on'vrequires Hating to shew
itsabfurdity and which must neverthelef
have been comieifed with a minute con
llruclion of the law. Indeed Mr. Chair
man, if the acts of common life bear am
analogy with public management, which 1
believe, what could be conlidered as beinj
more extraordinary than that ail individu
al Ihould appropriate the proceeds ot' on«
farm to pu; chafe bread, of another drink
and to declare in the lace us contingencies
that happen what may, he would flaiv.
Ihould the bread crop fail rather than uft
the surplUS of that appropriated to pur
chase drink, for its purchase. But tore
turn. what is this charge, a sum of monei
was due abroad for the interest of 1791
and 175s to be paid out of the domefti: re
venues of 1791 and 1-92 ; the Unitec
States had an offer to make a payment ii
part of what was due Frince, for wliicl
money had been borrow cd and v as alrea
dy 031 hand abroad, in a supply of pro; :li
011s from here to tlieifland of St. Domin
go, the Secretary therefore, and doubtlef
with Ihe consent of the Preiident, infleac
of txanfmitting either bills or money froi:
this country to France in order to pay tlit
inter ell due there, and bringing the monej
borrow td to pay the !• rench debt into thi:
country, in order to ftirniflj I'upplies for St
Dum'uigo, has committed the great ytrimt
of dissecting the money borrowed and al
ready qpon the spot to be applied to the
payment of tire interell due, and has ta
ken the Aims applicable to the payment!
of that interell. which was already here,
and made vie of it to pay the debi due tc
France in the produce oi the United States.
So that apparently a portion of
the principal borrowed hasiieen applied to
pay an due jel in reality it . tapa
[Total No. 143.]
city to be thus used arose from its conflU
tilting in this country ail equivalent sum
applicable and which has been applied to
pay off the principal of the French debt,
the object for which the money was bor
rowed Let candor invettigate thistranf
a£lioji and sure lam its deductions ill b
directly the contrary ot a charge of crim
ination. 1 (hall conclude with observing,
that I flioultfhave proceeded to examine the
other refblutions which I conlfder as weak
a> those I have made tliefe fliort comments
upon, were I not retrained by the rules of
the house. But this I will venture to fay,
that they will be proved unfounded in their
invertigation, and will merit the witty ob
servation of a celebrated writer, that
though they rose like a rocket, they will
fall like the (tick-
Mr. Findley next rose and exprcfi'ed
himfelf nearly as follows :
Mr. Chairman, Being ftrangly impreflett
with the importance of our time which is
now so near an end, though 1 had the ho
nour of seconding the resolutions Itook no
part in the debates of yetterday ; nor will
I now detain you with replies to many of
the arguments which have been offered
againlt" the resolutions now under difcuf
lion.
Upon one argument, frequently introdu.
ced by the gentleman lall up, viz. the
greatness of the Secretary's character, &c.
I will only make a fmglc remark ; there ia
no charaiter officially known in the execu
tive departments of this government, who
merits pre-eminence or to whom a degree
of greatntfs can be ascribed, but in pro
portion to Ins prompt execution of the
laws and the attention with which he dis
charges the duties of bis' office. From
this rule the President himfe'f is not ex
.mp ed, much lefsa subordinate Secretary*
ivhoft appointment i 3 during pleasure, and
"Tie duties affigne<l hurt of a changeable and
icmporary nature.
But to come to the resolution before us;
.he firft enquiries hat offer themfdves are,
.vhether the mondy in quellion was ap
propriated to special and dillinft purpo
ses ? Did the Secretary of the T'reaiury
ipply the money to other uses than the
aw directed ?
In answer to the Gi ft it is only necessary
:o advert to the law authorising tl.e loans.
The law authorising the twelve million
loan, appropriates whatever amount may
be borrowed folel'y to the payment of debia J
then due to France and Holland.
The law authorising the two million
loan directs the applic tion thereof lo the
redemption of the domellic debt, in aid of
ibout ■ dollars, aiiling from there
venue previous to the f:r!t ot January.
These appropriations were precise, dif
tindl, ;nd unconditional ; with refped to.
the uses no room wa« left for the exercise
if discretion ; the will of the legislature
was express and clearly defined- it left noi
room for evasion nor any excui'e for mis
take ; nor did the President transfer to
the Secretary any other authority or in
fh nftioii than what the law txpreffed.
But the gentleman from South
fays, that the prefumptiits is, that the Pre
sident did give other inftrutfionj than h<i
has communicated ; ilia? in this caie pre*
sumption should be admitted as concTuiive
testimony > and that >he Secietary or the
PreCdeiit are not obliged to communicate
the inHunftior.6 or authorities to us.
'1 h: gentleman is a lawyer ; I will ap-.
peal to himfe f, I will appeal to al! t'e
profeflional members on the floor, whetl er
presumption can be admitted as proof
where in the nature of the cafe pofmvetel
timony can be procured.
Surely in courts ot juilice positive lerti
rr.or.v is always required, and presumptive
is rarely admitted ; but in this c-fe the
preemptive is by the gentleman let in op
position to the positive. However, this is
not the cafe in fa ft. The President did
givecomm (Tion and inftruftions, and thtf*
are fully.communicated to us. It he con
ceived we had no right to derr.anc them
he would have us so, if he had kept
any part of them bat!", be would have in-,
f rmv'd us, »r-d afligtied hi* reafco« for tio»
[iV* !afi Page]The following; ftipplementary report to the
report of rhi? committee oil the cailfes of
the fa lure of the expedition unflersGe
n~rai Sc. Clair [fee Nation.:! Gazette of
i'i y [4, 1792] was laic! before the House
of Kepiefentatives 011 the 15th of Febru
ary la.-1, by the committee to \YIIOIII the
original report had been'recommitted at
t e close of the preceding Feffion.
THS original report commences in the
following words —
" The contrail for the fnpplies of the
army on the route from Fort-Pitt, was
inide by Theudolius Fowler, with the Se
cretary of the Treasury, and bears date
the twenty-eighth day of October, one
thousand Seven hundred and ninety ; that
at the fame time a bond in the penalty oi
one hundred thuufand dollars, with Wal
ter Livingilon and John Cochran, securi
ties thereto, was entered into, for a due
execution of the contract : That 011 the
tuird day of January, one thousand seven
hundred and ninety-one, the contrail wa:
wholly transferred from the said FO.vler,
to William Duer, a copy of which transfer
was lodged in the office of the Secretary oi
the Treasury ; that by letter from the Se
cretary at War, bearing date the twenty
fifth of February, 011 c thousand seven hun
dred and ninetv-one, addrelfed to Williarr
Duer, it appears that he was conlidered a:
contractor; that no correspondence ap
pear.; to have taken place ftibfequently t<
that time between Flieodolius Fowler ant
either the Treasury or War Departments.'
From documents received by the com
mittee, iince their lad appointment, it ap
pear?, that the copy of the before-men
tioned transfer was not lodged in the of
fice of the Secretary of the Treafurv, unti
tne feveuth of April, one thousand fevet
hundred and ninety-one ; at which time ii
was received by the Secretary of the T rea
,fary, under cover of a letter from William
Duer, informing him of the circumdance
of the said transfer, and making requili
tions for certain advances of money, That
the Secretary of the Treasury, by letter in
ref>iy, of the fame date, agree., to make the
advances required, to William Duer, as
thi agent of Theodofius Fowler.
It appears, that all the warrants, iffiied
from the Treasury, for the purpoles of this
contrail, were iliued to William Duer, as
the of Theodolius Fowler.
The Secretary of the Treasury has fur
niihed the committee with the written opi
nions of the Attorney General of the Uni
ted States, and several other lawyers of e
r.r.nence, all of whom concur in opinion
chat th securities to the bond, originally
given by Theodolius Fowler, for the exe
cution o! this contrail, are now responsible
for all damages, consequent upon any
breach of that contrail.
The Secretary of War, who alone ap
pears to have been the agent, on the part
of the United States, in all things relating
to the execution of the contract, has al
ways corresponded with William Duer, as
the contrailor, and his correspondence
commences at a date prior to that of the
copy of the contrail lodged at the Trea
sury.
The original report proceeds :
" That on the lixth of March, one thou
sand seven hundred and ninety-one, a con
trail was entered into by William Duer,
with the Secretary at War, for supplying
the troops with proviiions, until their arri
val at Fort Pitt, and at Fort Pitt. A bond
was at the fame time entered into by the
said William Duer, for the due execution
of the said contrail, in the penalty of four
thousand dollars, without any security
whatsoever.
It appears, by a re-exaniination of the
documents formerly befo e the commit
tee, that the date and terms of the last
mentioned contrail, were misrepresented ;
the date tw euty-lixth, inltead ot
the sixth of April, and the terms of the con
trail being to furniih proviiions for the
troops until their arrival at Fort i'itt, b.,t
uotdiiring their continuance at that place.
The firll of these inillakes appears to have
been merely casual, the fecund appears to
have arisen from paying greater attention
to the manner in which the contract was
rev.tly exreuted, than to the terms of the'
contrail itfelf, it having been conceived by
the committee, that Col. Neville, the a
gent for supplying the troops during their
continuance at Fort-Pitt, acted under the
lad "mentioned contrail. This circuin
rtance is rendered the less material, from
the contideration, that according to the
plan of the campaign, 110 delay of tile troops
at Fort i'itt was counted upon. Tin
dateinent is otheru ife correit.
The Secretary of War, in his communi
cation, dales, that it was not the custom ol
the office, to require other security than
that ofthe contrailor, for the due execu
tion of contrails of small amount ; and it
appears by.a letter of the Secretary of the
Treasury written liuce the former report,
th it the Secretary at War confuted with
him upon the occasion alluded to, and that
he agreed in opinion, that farther security
was not neceilary.
It is dated in the original report after
(peal'iug of one of the contrailor's agents,
that
-• It appears by letters from Joliw Kean,
another of the contrailor's agents, that no
monies had been received by hini on the
eighth of May, and it appears that i>;i the
twenty-third of March there was mlvanced
to William Duer on the lart mentioned
coiuradt, the f:ini of fifteen thousand dol
lars."
Upon re-examining the letters of John
Kea:i, it appears that he had received the
film of four hundred and fifty dollars, and
no more, before the aforefaid eighth day
of May, which was before overlooked by
tile committee. And it appears front do
cuments received by the committee fmce
their report, that the lum of fifteen thou-
I'jnd dollars was not advanced to William
Duer on account of the lad mentioned
contract, on the twenty-third of March.
The committee were led into this mrftake
by a document received from the Treafnr
er, representing the fa ft as stated in the
original report, which document is Hill be
fore the committee'.—The true (late of
'.his tranfaftiou as recently stated, appears
js follows :
A warrant iffiied in favour of Joseph
Howell, on the twenty-third of March,
for the fnm of fifteen thousand dollars, for
the use of the war department generally,
and not for William Duer, as stated in the
account rendered by the Treafureri Of
which sum, were advanced to William
Duer, on the twenty-frxth of March, four
thousand dollars ; on the eighth day of
May following, were paid to James Smith,
contracting agent for William Dner, one
thousand dollars ; and between the twen
tv-firft of May and the twenty-third of
July, were paid to John Kean, another
agent for William Duer, four hundred and
thirty-seven dollars and ninety-one cents ;
making the vhole sum advanced 011 the
last mentioned contrast, five thousand four
hundred and thirty-seven dollars, and
ninety-one cents.—The residue of the fif
teen thousand dollars is suggested to have
been applied to the use of the war depart
ment generally.
The original report (fates, that—
"It appears from the correspondence of
General Butler, from the ninth of May to
the ninth of June, repeated complaints
were made of fatal mil managements and
neglects in the quarter matter's and mili
tary (lores departments, particularly as to
tents, knapsacks, camp kettles, cartridge
boxes pack-saddles, &c. all of which ar
ticles were deficient in quantity and bad in
quality. The pack-saddles, particularly,
were made in Philadelphia, which with
the transportation, amounted to more than
double tne price at v hich they might have
been procured at Fort-Pitt, and were
found upon examination, to be unfit for
use."
Mr. Hodgdon has produced to the com
mittee, a number of ex-parte affidavits and
certificates to prove, that these several ar
ticles were furniihed, in fufficient quanti
ties, and of good quality.—Molt of these
affidavits however, were made by the ma
nufacturers of the refpeftive articles, or
persons in the employment of Mr. Hodg
don, and generally written in a different
hand writing, from that of the fubfci ibing
deponents ; and molt of the certificates by
persons unknown to the committee. But
the tettimony formerly taken by the com
mittee, and the corroboration of it by the
evidence cf refpeftable and disinterested
persons, lately taken by the committee, in
presence of Mr. Hodgdon, appears abun
dantly fufficient to juttify the statement of
1 acts contained in the original report.
With respect to the pack-faddies however,
it is neccli'ary to remark, that foine quali
fication of the expressions 11 fed in the ori
ginal report, would be proper. They ap
pear to have been made of different (izes ;
thofeof the largelt (i;e are proved to have
been wholly unfit for use, the ("addles used
;or pack-horses being generally finall.
Some of the smaller pack saddles, howe
ver. appear to have been used in the cam
paign, and to have answered the intended
purpose better than was at firlt expected,
It is dated in the original report, that-—
" The arms sent forward appear not to
have been duly examined, and arrived at
extremefy out of order, and ma
ny totally unfit lor use, which circiimftince
rendered repairs absolutely necessary, and
added to the delay of the troops at Fort-
Pitt."
The committee are led to conclude,
from authentic information, recently re
ceived, that the complaint of the arms in
tended for the regular troops and levies,
s unfounded ; some of the arms appear to
have been damaged, after they were put
into the hands of the troops, from their in
experience or careleffnefj, tlio' delivered
to them in good order.
1 he committee were induced to make
the unqualified statement contained in the
01 iginal report, from the unqualified ma- -
ner in which this fubjeft is spoken of by
some of the witnefles, formerly examined
by the committee ; they not inn ing stated
with ffifficient precilion, the causes of the
arms being out of repair, nor (pecifying
the probable number requiring repairs.
i he original report proceeds with the
foil owing exprefiion :
"It appears, that a great proportion of
the powder, supplied for the life of the ar
mv, was not of good quality, tho'an ex
periment was made by Major Fergufon, at
-'art-Pitt, with a howitzer, who reported
in favour of the quality of the powder." ,
The committee are fatislied from expe
riments made lince the original report by
captain Ford, at Foit Walhington, upon
requelt of the Secretary of War, and by
samples oi' the powder from thence, a£lu
aily furnilhed th-* committee, that the]io\\ -
der was originally of good quality ; but
that a certain quantity of ir. was damaged
by exposure to the a:r and inoifUire atter
being ifriied to the troops. And it appears
to have been powder of this description,
upon which experiments were made by
tome of the officers ill the expedition,
which produced unfavourable imprellions
as to the quality of the powder in general ;
for it is certain, a belief was currently en
tertained amongst the officers,that the pow
d. r in general was not of good quality.
The infufficieucy of the powder, after the
army took the field, is accounted for from
the bad quality of the tents. It is in tefti
inony t" the committee, that great quanti
ses of the fixed ammunition were actually
rendered useless from that cause.
\Jlemainder in our next.']
For the National Gazette.
I\7HEN flagrant and notoriousabufes are
known to exist in, or be coniiefted
ivith any of*the chief offices of Hate, it be
• oraes every freeman to express his fenti
uents on the occasion, provided he pay;
rtricl regard to moderation and truth.
The failure of the late wed em expedi
tion under the command ol Gen. St. Clair,
lias not only awakened the public atten
tion, but produced scrutinies into the con
duel of certain characters, which it is ho
ped, have as yet only had a beginning. But.
without further dilating, or any unnecelfa
ry preface, I mean limply to mention the
two following very serious facts, -which
may be depended, upon.
i ft. The resignations in the army have
been so frequent, that the officers left, arc
hardly fufficient to discipline the soldiers.
2d. The army is so difrefpeftful, that
the officers, w hen in any considerable town,
are ashamed to wear their regimentals.
>.ow, Mr. Editor, there mull be a fault
in some place ; somebody does not " work
it right, n here does it lie? Surely not
with the Secretary of War, for as the a
bilicies of scholars are entirely unconnect
ed with those of the master, as the morals
of a congregation cannot be affefred by the
deportment of their pastor, as the conducl
of a governor has no influence on the af
fairs of the ltate. aud the abilities of a fi
nancier cannot affect fifcal administration,
it cannot lie with that officer.
Sid HAiMet Benengeli.
March 8, 1792.
-• -■■■!
PHILADELPHIA.
March 13.
Capt. Amiot, who left Cette, a French
port in the Mediterranean, about the mid
dle of Jan. informs, that naval warlikt
preparations were going on with great ac
tivity in the southern seaports. A fleet oi
("mail veifeis was equipping at Toulon,
intended, it was generally believed, for ai
attack on the island of Sardinia. Senti
ments were divided as to the probable is
sue of the king's trial ; but the molt gene
ral opinion was, that final judgment woulc
be referred to, and be p flld upon him b)
the primary aflemblles Apprehenlion:
were entertained for his life, from the \* el.
known anti-royal propenlity of the Parti
alis. It was however hoped, that tile-forces
aflembled in the capital from several de
partments, would be fufficient to preserve
order and secure the execution of the de
ciiion of the National Convention.
By the several arrivals of lalt week from
Europe and the Weft-Indies, the intelli
gence communicated to us may be compri-
I'ed in a few words. When the iafr ih">p
left Liverpool, things were in nearly the
ame lituation as has been reprefentcd by
the accounts already publifhed—llo decla
ration of war by Gi against
France, altho'naval preparations were go
ing forward with vigour.
By letters from Holland to this city, it
is said that the Dutch have coniproniifed
a ith the French and consented to the o
peniiig of the Scheldt; and that an amica
ble treaty was on the carpet ; if this fhotild
be the fa£t, and that the Dutch and French
are become allies, tile armaments of Great
Britain will have 110 other objeCt to ope
rate upon, than their own internal liifcoil
tents.
Accounts from Cape-Francois, fay that
the negroes were coming in every day, and
affairs wore a very peaceable afpeft : but
we are forrv to mention, that the lituation
of the country about Port-au-Prince, is
not yet in lo tranquil a lituation as could
be deiired.
Letters from Ireland mention, that
' there is a prdfpeCt of very tronblefome
times in that island the enfujng spring and
rummer. The people are incefiantly cry
ing lor liberty, a grant of more equal
rights, and a more tolerable means of fub
ljiiehce than is at present the cafe among
tile body of the people j the lower claiJes
of In Hi being wuiverfally allowed by a?J
travellers to be the mutt ©pprcti'etl oi any
people in Furope, and thai i» one ot the
molt fertile iihmds in the world. With a
view to give efficacy to their jult demand
ot more equal rights, fifteen tnoufatul men
have armed and accoutred themselves in
the north, and thirteen theufand ill and a
bout Dublin. Their general badge is the
cap ofliberty, and a motto, expieflive ot"
the genuine wi!h of every honeit Hiberni
an to be freed from tlie domination of king*
and roynlUh, w hole glory is founih don
the baiis of oppref*on, and to maintain the
splendour of wliofe families andJattllitet
(the nobility) the face of the earth is lite
rally bathed with tears."
We hear that William Pater/on, Efq
has accepted his appointment as a judge of
the Supreme Court cf the United Sn.tc-s.
The oiiice of Governor of New-Jersey
will, therefore, become vacant.
It is mentioned in a letter from a well
informed gentleman in Georgia, that the
Britiih tonnage exceeded kit year, in the
port of Savannah, that ol Charieiionby ele
ven hundred tons; & it is his opinion that
the difference this year will be at least $oop
tons in favour of Georgia. About
middle of February there were layinjin
the port of Savannah about 130 fail of leu
vefleis, American, French and Britiih.—
Cotton is now become an article of im
mense export from Georgia ; and last crip
the quaniity exported amounted toaSo.cco
weight ol clean cotton.
We hear from New-York, that a very
sudden and terrible hurricane of m ind hap
pened tkere 011 the sth in£t. It blew firft
from north, and soon afterwards N. W.—
Several boats that were 011 the oyster
banks were unfortunately loft in scudding
before this tornado; the whole number of
people drowned is not yet ascertained :
fight are known to be loft, whohave moft
-1 left diftrefled fami.lt s.
D.ed at Groton, in Conneflicut, on the
19th of February, Mrs Smith (re
lta of Nathan Smith, tfq. late of that
town) in the 88th year of her ;ige. Her
offspring are 10 children; 84 grand chil
dren; 22i great grand children; anil 14
of the filth generation—total 330.
For want of pilots, a number of vefleis
inward bound to this port, have been de
tained below. Several merchants, it is
said, have entered into a private agree
ment with the pilots to give them 15/ per
foot for all vefleis under 12 feet draft, and
20/ for all vefleis above 12 feet, as vi el! go
ing down as coming up. Under this a
greement several pilots have gone to sea
within the week past. to conduct a number
ot vefleis into port who had been fume days
in the offing.
A newinfurreftion has taken place in the
neighbourhood of Port-au-Prince, of ne
groes who had been hitherto peaceable
About the firft of February 1 jco foot troops
and 400 light horse marched out to attack
and reduce them ; but the event was not
knoun when these accounts left Hifpanio
la. Sugars, and other Well-India pro
duce were high, and American produce
uncommonly cheap.
" It is remarkable (fays an Fnglifh pa
per) that when Mr. Burke lately drew hit
dagger in the Britiih House oi Commons,
he" only flruc/t his audience with a hearty
fit of laughter. Certainly, nothing ,could
have been more ridiculous than thus aping
the whimsical devices of certain ancient
orators, of Greece and Rome, to atiraft
attention. " There ! (said he) there, gen
tlemen, is a dagger for you (brandishing it
in his hand, and then throwing it violently
011 the floor)— there is a daggi r, made ex
actly acccording to the directions given to
the gentlemen at Birmingham !! '—This
theatrical rant seems entirely to have loft
its effect by the burlis of laughter it is said
to have occasioned. With every sensible
man, modern habits, prejudices, and ideas,
w ill regulate modern oratory—lf a lawyer,
in our days, happens to be pleading the
cause of a (hip-w recked sailor, he will not
(aswas formerly done) occasionally hold
up a piSure of the fvipwreck to move the
pity of the judge—or. if he is arguing in
behalf of :r deiraitdcd infant orphan, he
will not bring the bantling into court, for
the purpose of exciting ideas of compaflion
in the jury; not only (lays Sterne) for fear
of incurring ridicule, hut left while he is
displaying his oratory —the babe fliould
befoul the orator's mantle !"
Extratt of a letter front New-York, dated
March •
" I agree with yon. that ailing out of
I character is equally rr; rehenf:b!e, whetlifr
in men or governments. Birth day cele
brations, how ever meritorious the charac
ter meant to be complimented, are not
suited to the genius (four country or go
vernment, where an i dvancemer.t to the
nighelt honors and emoluments of that go
vernment ought to be considered as the
ultimatum of"rrfpeftfi:J tribute tine from
the people. In thW opinion a number of
'rrave ai d woithy foreigners. now on this
| tide of the Atal;, :ie. perfectly concur with
me, and candidly confefs that however
I fond thev might have been of celebrations
of this nature at hotr?., they eoniider them
I as rather feurdcn>!£ ou the absurd in thiscountry, and therefore cannot but admire
at the credulity of certain well meaning
people who are frequently duped by de
liiinng characters into demoriltrations of
refpett wholly monarchical, and therefore
incompatible with the pra&ice oi republi
canifts and freemen. In iliort, if we are
really republicans let us act uniformly as
such; othcrwife, let us adopt all tile badges
without dillinclion,of royai ty—"a garment
of patch-work (fays Seneca) is, never very
houorable to the wearer."
Extract of a letter from a Juflice of the
Peace in the Country.
" Among many other vain titles, the in
ventions of natural men, and exprelfive of
dHHnflions which ought not to exist be
tween citizen and citizen in a free repub
lic, I consider that of ksqUIRE, as one
wholly unnecessary. In fact, this tack to
one's name is become so common as almoil
to have ceased to betoken dilHnftion. 1
had long Aifpe&ed it to be unorthodox, and
upon the fair ground of repub
lican equality, but am now more than ever
convinced of it, and have therefore seri
ously requeued of my friends and others,
when addressing me by letter, or otherwise,
that they would omit appending the word
Efpiire, as not only in a great degree tife
lefs, but favouring of that worldly vanity
so much reprobated by the apoftie and
other grave (tho' profane) writers. The
far greater part (no doubt) in the commis
sion of the peace will not choose to copy
my example. This, however, ought not
to discourage the friends of republican
fnnplicitv. It is well known that the edifl
of Peter the great, of Rufiia, for cutting ofl
the long beards of his fubje&s, occafioneci
much howling, and was for a long time
opposed by them on the score of old cus
tom ; and yet, in the event, we find from
history that the beards were voluntarily
thrown aside not only as vain ornaments,
but troublesome incumbrances."
Extract of a letter from a gentleman in
Cork, to his correspondent in this city,
dated January re. 1793-
" This country and England is at pre
sent in a state of perturbation : the people
publicly difapprSve of abuses that have
crept into the conftitntion and the con
duit of the present ministry, particularly
since Paine's Rights of Man ins made its
appearance: almofl every one is turned po
litician, they complain of 11 njuft reprelen
tation, and ministerial influence, which by
the bye is gone beyond all bounds- This
very year there has been twelve thousand
per annum in penlionr, added to the Irilll
lift. The Papists like wile iafifl, in positive
terms, to have all the penal laws against
them, abolilhed ; for which pnrpofe, they
have convened a national meeting in
Dublin, and have chosen a number of de
legates to form plans for carrying their
deligns intoeffeft. Mod: of the corporated
towns have advised their constituents to
oppose such innovations, and have publilh
ed resolutions to that effect. What the
end will be, the Almighty only knows ! It
seems they have a promise from the En
glish minifler that has encouraged them to
take such (leps, \\ hich it is supposed he has
done to strengthen his influence. Socie
ties are forming fact here, and in every
other town, to preserve their rights it is
supposed, more than to preserve public or
der. England too is in a slate ot'Termen
tation, they are arming fact, it is supposed
to go to war with France— s he people are
totally averse to falling out with France—
they have declared by printed resolutions,
they will not support a war against a peo
ple fighting for their liberty. Govern
ment arefo alarmed, they 3re taking eve
ry step to strengthen theirhands ; the par
liament is called three weeks before the
appointed time, they have planted cannon
on the tower, are rdiflng a militia, and are
ftrengthesing all their places of defence ;
the coufequences are in foine measure felt
already, as credit is greatly hurt, and a
damp in trade and buijnefs, that is, what
is carried on between the two kingdoms."
" If an early campaign takes place ffays
n letter from Kentucky) we iliall find re
lies—otherwise, we (lull have a bad fnm
liier. I have ju't returned from Lexing
ton j where I had an opportunity of hear
ing the people's opinion of the war; and
it is supposed, by the best judges, that,
with proper encouragement, an army of
two thousand of the befi woodsmen in the
state may be brought to action this funi
mer.—lt is high time that a decifiveftroke
was made."
ti We hear from Pittsburgh, that Col.Ebe
liezrr Sprout, of Marietta, is appointed
Adj litant General in the army of the Uni
ted St;:tes.
la a former paperit was mentioned, that
Col. l'roftor had left Pittsburgh for Fort-
Franklin, &c.—We, however, underltand
he is at Legiotivllle ; ai d presume, from
the accounts which we hear have been re
ceived from the Corn Planter, it will be
wioft prudent for him to delay his viiit to
that quarter for some time.
A bill is now before the general court
of MatTachufetts. in addition 10 an afl: for
preventing the entertainments of the The
atre. This biH iavefts the citizens oi
any town with power to permit or not to
permit fnch entertainments, as the majo
rity of them may determine.
'' The State of Massachusetts havecliofen
Senators to the Congress of the United
States, feverai times lince the adoption oi
che Federal Government, every one ot
which elections have been made by about
fifteen or twenty gentlemen of the upper,
or, as some affecl to call it, the Ariltocratic
Branch of the Itate legislature : this pur
pose has been effected by ujurpaiion, con
trary to the rights of the people, and their
immediate representatives; they iiaving
Plumed to themselves the right ot chufing
111 separate branches, and the Houleot Ke
prefentatives, being more numerous, are
generally worried into every meaiure,
v l . hich the perfeverence and obstinacy of
:his " chufe to impose upon
them.
It is most earnestly to be wished the prc
ent House of Representatives, may recol
ect that their conflituents expect from
:hem, at this time, a of firmnef.,
.hat former Houses have not shewn ; and,
:hat if the affirming Branch are indulged
11 their proud pretentions, our Represen
tatives in one Branch of Congress, are but
:he Representatives of a junto.
[Boft on Iml. Chron.]
Me firs. Hare, Morgan, Latimer, Swan
ivick. Woods,and Gibbons, members of
he House of Representatives of the (late
egiflature, have entered, on the journals
if the House, their reasons for dissenting
from the vote of a majority, in favour of a
bill, extending the power of justices of the
peace to cases of twenty pounds.
Mr. Genest. appointed Minister from
France, to the United States, is expe&ed
[hortly, in the Sandwich from Havre
Elbridge Gerry, Esq. a member in
[he last Federal House of Representatives
from the State of Massachusetts, is held up
as a candidate for the office of Governor in
that State.
The President of the United States hat
ore'ered the following organization of the
regular army. It is to be denominated
the Legion of the United States, and is to
be divided into 4 sub-legions—the whole
to consist of ji2o men, including officers—
The General Staff is to consist of 1 major
general—2 brigadiers general—l adjutant
—1 quarter-master—l deputy ditto—l fur
>eon —1 chaplain.—Field— 4 lieut. cols.
:ommandant—14 majors—Comtnijfioned—
56 captains—6o lieutenants —48 ensigns— 4
ornets —Medical Staff—4 fnrgeons —12
urgeons mates—6 fnrgeons mates, for ex
tra services.—(aids de camp are included
n the number of commissioned officers.)
On Friday night last, (fays the New-York
Daily Gazette) the wind being from the N-
W. a violent hurricane arose, which occa
ioned so high a swell in the North-River,
is to force feverai lengths of the fence,
ately ereited on the weft fide of the bat
ery, entirely from their places; the wind
it the fame time laid level with the ground,
jpwards of 180 feet of the beautiful new
r ence on the east fide of the aforefaid place,
-uzed feverai trees, &c.
The new ship Augusta, which lay in the
Ircain, and bound for Charleston, parted
ler cables in the above llorm, and was
Iriven on lhore at Long-1 (land.
ByavefTel (arrived at Baltimore) that
eft Cadiz the 17th of January, feverai
)ieces of verbal intelligence were handed
:o the public, such as that Spain was vi
»oroufly preparingfor war against France;
that four thousand regular Spanish troops
lad deserted to the French—that a French
irmy was entering Spain, and on their
narcl) to Madrid, &c. &c.—Capt pow
er, however, who arrived here 011 Fri
fay last, and left Cadiz the 29th of Janu
lry, fays not a word of tliofe extraordina
■y movements. We may therefore con
:lude the accounts by the Baltimore arri
. al to be erroneous.
The resignation of Mr. Jefferson
ivas some time lince talked of, as about to
ake place soon ; we have lately heard,
through a very refpeclable channel, and
:oinmunicate it with pleasure, that he is
lot to relign. [Gen. Ado.~\
A few days since Mr. Lazarus Beach (of
Connecticut) presented to the Museum in
Sew-York a quire of paper, jnade at his
saper mill in the town of Danburv, which
he hottest fire would not consume.
" The rife of sugar (fays a letter frn>m
?ort-au-Prince,of January 31) isoccalion
:'d by the plantations being set on fire, and a
revolt of tile negroes, who have been here
tofore peaceable, till within these 10 days
past ; and now there is a general infurree
tion throughout this part of the island —
there marched out yesterday 1 ;co men.
and 400 light horse lince which there ha:
not been any accounts of their progress ;
but there has been an incefiant firing kept
up all day—nothing further to acquaint
you of, only that bnlinefsis ftagnatcd, and
American produce 20 per cent, cheaper
than at Bolton."
Married on Thursday evening last hj
the Rev. Doctor Aflibel Green—.Dotfor
George. IV. Campbull, to Miss Charlotte
Craig, daughter of John Craig, Esq. oi
New-Jcrfey.
[From a Corrcfpondent.]
" Metaphysical science may nt the pre
sent day be conlidered as in the last 11;sge
of its existence, for this plain reason, that
its obje£(s being, what the word itfflf im
ports, bey->ud nature, are therefore win;
propriety referred to and involved in a dif
ferent condition of things. And yet there
are instances, in the prelent day, of states
men adopting this f.iplefs mode of reason
ing, infcparable from abfolnte obfeurity
when all that is required to be known foi
the general and requisite ptirppfes of infor
mation might be read and underilood b)
him that runs, if fair play were confultcd
Tliere is a certain fifli in the southern seas
which, when pursued, emits a black liquid
extremely fnbtile and diffulive, fomethinj
'ike ink, that instantly discolours the watei
:o such a degree, as to render all furthe;
mrfuit ineffectual. The inlliuctiye (acul
y of this filh may be applied to more Win
ers than one in the political world. Me
:aphyfical subtlety, or a studied obfeurit)
■>f reafoninjr, are no way adapted to tin
iraftical affairs of mankind, and he wlu
eforts to them on such occasions may noi
mproperly be reckoned at least firft cou
in to Swift's mathematical taylor in the
'.land of Laputa, who instead of takinj
lieafure of his customers in the ordinal )
way, to fiirnifh any one of them with a fuil
3 fcloathes, tooktheirdimenlionsof height
H'eadrll, depth, &c. with a finical quad
ant ; and finally walled more time in ma
-:ing the preparatory calculation's only,
than another would have required for the
completion of thefuit."
From another corre/jpondent, -who sign.
hi mj elf H cno r . ]
" It ir generally called plaglarifm for one
author to borrow from another withotu
giving him credit for it; but what the gen
tlemen of the type call borrowing fro it
each other (or culling if you please) I J<
not know. They may have a greater la
titude of indulgence allowed them, or the)
may perhaps a[fume it ; but this does not
render the thing in itfelf unjust. In read
ing a certain paper of this city, the other
evening, I observed that the printer hat!
not only copic-d the debates on Mr. Giles's
motion, verbatim, from the GENERAL
ADVERTISER, but that he had even co
pied the exordium without giving the
Imallelt crcdit to the author for it. II
this is not rank plagiarism, I am certain!)
it a loss how to ; pply the term. Whether
ir may be thought a degradation of any
printer to inform his customers that he is a
copyist, or whether his pride will not al
low him to confefs that the Kditors of o
:her papers may have now and then excel
ed him, I w ill not take upon me to deter
mine; but thus much I will take the li
berty to determine, that such conduit ar
rues a great want of modejty.
I have not the honor to be ranked among
:he brethren of the Type, but this does
not preclude mj from giving an opinion,
when I fee a deviation from the common
rules of propriety."
[From a Lor.don paper. ]
On the 14th of December a debate took
place in the French National Convention
on the fubjeft of eftablilhirfg public fchoois.
On this occasion a speech was made by M.
clu Pont, a member of consider. ble \veight,
which was received with unanimous ap
pliiufe, except from two or three of the
clcrgy : it may therefore be conlidered as
an expoiition of the creed of that enlight
ened aflembly : the speech is translated
from l,e Moniteur, a Paris paper of Dec,
16, and is as follow s : —
" What ! Thrones are overturned I Scep
tres broken ! Kings expire I anel yet tilt
Altars of God remain ! [jHere there was 1.
murmur from Jome members; and the Ab
be Ichon demanded that the perjon Jpeaking
mi™ht be called to order.] Tyrants, i:i
outrage to nature, continue to burn an
impious incense on thole altars !—[Some
murmurs arose, but they were lojt in the
applauses from the majority of the Ajfem
bly.~] The throne? that have been rever
sed, have left these altars naked, unsup
ported, and tottering. A single breath oi
enlightened reason will now be fulficient
to make them disappear. And if humani
ty is under obligations to the French na
tion for the firli of these benefits (the fall
of kings) can it be doubted, but that tii*
French Pc-ople, now sovereign, will be
wife enough, in like manner, to overthrow
those altars and those idols, to which those
kings have hitherto made them fubjeft ?
Nature and Reason, these ought to b; the
(rods of men I These are my Gods I [Here
the Abbe Audrien cried out, " There''s 1:0
bearing this; and rujhed out of the Afein
bly. A great laugh I] Admire Nature—
cultivate Reajoii.—And you, Legislators,
if you desire tiiat the French people UIOIIM
be happy—make hafie to propagate these
principles, and to teach them in your pri
mary fchoois. instead of those fanatical
principles which have hitherto been taught.
The tyranny of kings was confined to ir.ai:c
their people miferabie in this life ; but
those other tyrants, the Priefls, extern!
their dominions into another, of which they
have 110 other idea than of eternal pimi!!:-
ments ; a* do£trine which fonie men have
hitherto had the'good nature to believe.—
But the ri'omcnt of the catastrophe.is come;
al J these prejudices niuft fall at tha f.itfv?
time. We mufl dcftroy them, cr ihey iv/i*
dejlroy us.—i'or myl'elf 1. I honestly avow
to the Convention—l am a Deifi ! [Herts
there was Jonie rtcije and tumult: —6t<t
great number of members cried cut, what
is that to us P you are an honejl man.] —
But I defy a (ingle individual, amongst the
twenty four millions: of Frenchmen, to
make against me any well grounded re
proach.—l doubt whether the Christians,,
or the Catholics,'of which the last Speaker,
and those' of his opinion, have been talking
to us, can make the fame challenge —
[great applauses. j There is another con
lideration.—Paris has fnltaineri great lof
fes.—lt has been deprived of-the com
merce of luxury ; of that factitious splen
dor which was found at courts, and invited
ftrangershither.—Well ! We must repair
these lodes. — Let me then represent to
you the times, that are fait approaching,
when our Philosophers, whose names are
celebrated throughput Europe, Petion,
Syeyes, Condorcet, and others will be sur
rounded in our pantheon, as the Greek
Philosophers were at Athens, with a crowcj,
of disciples coming from qll parts of Eu
rope, walking like the Peripatetics, and
teaching Mankind the true system of
Univ.erfe, and developing the progress of
human knowledge ; per;ectioning the So
cial system, and (hewing in our decree of
the 17th of June, 1759, the feed of the in
furrectiim of the 14th of July, and the 10th
of Augult, and of all those infurreftions
which are spreading with such rapidity
throughout Europe—so, that these young
ttrangers, on their return to their respec
tive countries,may spread the fame lights as
may operate, for the happiness of mankind,
similar revolutions throughout the whole
world."
(Numbcrlefs ipplaufes arose, alnioft
throughout the w hole' afi'embl) —and in
the galleries.]
VOL T A I Tv E.
The man 1111 ft be very simple who fufferf
himfelf, at this enlightened and emancipa
ted slate of the w orid, to be impofcd on by
the stale trick of certain zealots gravely
publishing to the people ingeniousfoßgeriesf
against men of eminence, after their death,
who had exposed the abominable absurdi
ties and mischievous impofitjons of those
zealots. However fticli publications may
impofc on some weak, well-meaning peo
ple, yet men better informed in biography
and general hillorv will receive them with
caution, as they from former ijnpp
litions, how little credit is due to them.—
The (lory taken from the Gallerie dp P
ancienne Cour," w Inch wa-piiblifl.efl fofne
days (ince in one of the Philadelphia pa
pers, carries oh the face of it the falfity &)id
the delign of manv ot the like complexion
that have gone before it. The death ps
Voltaire wos followed with this unfound
ed tale, which is so like }vhat has been tpld .
of other eminent men, and so unlike the
charufler of the deceased, that no person alj
all knowing his difpoiition, his itrongjjn
derflanding, and his extercfive benevolency,
and know ing the extravagant forgeries of
religious bigotry, could easily believ? it to
be true, altho' Voltaire's physician fiotild
really and indeed have told Jomebody tln|t,
a few hours bslore his death, he heard him
try ont in great agitation of mind, " je
meurs abandonne de Dieu et des Hom
ines." [Mail.]
Adyices from Martinicpand Guaclaloupe
fay, that the governors of both those
islands have fled, and taken with them a
seventy fenr gun (hip, a frigate of forty
guns, a Hoop of war of twenty-guns, and
several tenders. It is not known to what
quarter they are gone.
A number of permce-makers and hair
drclTers in Baliimore 1 ave agreed and no
tified the public, that they intend to keep
the .Lord's day holy, by refraining from
the (infill, heathenifli cullom of hair ciref
fing and (having their cuilomers on ih: t
day.—No signatures, how ever, appearing
to their advei tifement, they have been
publicly ijallcd upon to make thcn.fejves
individually known, that the propl a: ■ 01
t .e cr ft may be rewarded act ordinjjly.
Wili.iAm Patterson, Ffq.' isle-e
---l.'cled President of the ol Maryland
for the ensuing year.
We are informed that Oliver FyAN.%
the patentee of the l;:te improvement: mai
by him for Itllening the labour in tile art
of inanufa.iltiring grain into flour, hath
lately made the following further imr rove
ment 011 said art, viz. He applies one of
his patent-machines'to collect the mid
dlings (or coarse flour j as it falls from the
boult, and returns it into the eye of the
Hone, in a continual stream, by .wbkh
means it is ground over regularly with the
w heat; and all the fuperfine flour, that is
polfible to be made, is in de at one opera -
t on of the mill, and much labour and tin.
is thereby saved to the miller. We are
further delircd ro inform the public, tliac
his price for full pt rmiiTon ior nling the
whole ef his improv tments, is to be forty
npLi.AKS atiiiil, after the firft day of/. .
pril next N. B. Said Evans is abcut
to publifli a new work on the principles or'
water mills, : :.cl the art of mantf e.tiling
grain into flour on the improved plan.
March 13,ir.g so. I presume tT.at tlie President has
a&ed th; part of a cand'd, honed man, the
gentleman prcfutr.cs the - reverfc. Ihe
suggestion ihat this houle, which has the
right of originating the appro
priation of money, has no riglit to be in
formed of the application of it, is so novel
and extraordinary, so inconfiltent with
every idea of propriety and good govern
ment that it requires no reply.
Did the Secretary apply the money bor
rowed in Europ* agreeably to the legal
Appropriations of the President ? No he
did not; though some of the gentlemen do
not acknowledge thus, yet the Secretary
has clearly acknowledged it himfelf and
has filled his reporls with laboured and in
genious apologies for so doing; he has fug
gifted a variety of motives, and taken infi
nite liberty to charm us with the mighty
public advantages resulting from his doing
io. He acknowledges having drawn to
this country and applied in Europe to uses
for which other mcnies were appropria
ted, 3 millions of dollars ; out of this he
has paid upwards of 400,000 dollars of the
French debt to St Domingo. Ido not
complain of paying the interest due in
Europe out of the money obtained there ;
1 he gentlemen apply the force of their ar
guments with great attention to support
or apologize for this part of the Secreta
ry's conduit, as if againfl this only the
charge in the resolution lay. But we dc
not object to applying that money in Hoi
land, which ought to have been brought
here, if the money which according to the
appropriation should have gone to Hol
land had been put to the use here for which
the other was intended, a simple exchange
of money for the ptirpofe of conveniency
and (Economy is properly one of those cases
to which ministerial discretion may solely
be extended ; but the question is, whcthei
the money has been replaced. The amount
of money h.is not been applied to the uses
intended, consequently the appropriation
has been disregarded. It is acknowledged
that tho' there were upwatds of 1,30000 c
dollars of the domestic finking fund, and
upwards of 2,300,000 dollars drawn from
Europe, besides the monies applied to the
relief of St. Domingo, yet when ihefe
enquiries began, there was not 1,000,00 c
dollars applied to the redemption of the
public debt, and even yet the whole of the
domestic appropriation has not been ap
plied to the finking fund, notwithilanding
that the public debt now is and has for
some time been und;r par. We have it
on record, that the Secretary never in
formed the commiflioners of draughts he
made on Europe, although the fund was
cxclufively to be at their disposal.
However, I will not detain the com
mittee with minute llatements, they are
not nrreflary ; the Secretaiy has acknow
ledged that he drew more money from
Europe than the law authorised him to do:
that he was influenced to do so by motives
not contemplated in the law, and had ei
ther applied it or drawn from Europe with
the design of applying it to uses not au
thorized, and that he has broken in upon
the fund appropriated to the discharge of
the French d bt. Indeed the delay of in
formation, the receiving it piecemeal, the
abundance of reafonin s and apologies,
when only simple and plain statements
were required, renders a scrutiny of all his
calculations a work of time and labour ;
theiefor.-, I have contented myfelf with
the facts that the Secretary acknowledges
and vindicates on the questionable ground
of policy. It remains to be enquired, had
the Secretary a right to depart from the
directions of the law, in the execution of
it: could he, without a violation of the
law, divert the money from its appropriate
use to purposes foreign to the intention of
the Legislature ? He certainly could not.
The application of appropriation is the
molt {'acred and important tn.ft the legis
lature can confer; if they may be made to
bend to the will or projedling policv of a
financier, there is an end to all security and
confidence. When a legislature makes an
appropriation of a general fund to a variety
of uses, as has been done with refpedt to
the impost, tonnage, excise &c. there is ne
ceflarily a considerable degree of discretion
left with the executive, a« far as refpc&s
preference toone or other of the appropri
ate uses ; but where the money is appro
priated solely to a fpecia! purpose, as 'n
the cafe of the loans, he who executes the
laws has no degree of power over the ap
propr ation. i here is ample room indeed
for discretion in many material circum
flancesrefne&ing them : such as the terms
of contract, the times of diawing, the a-
cents cr-'.ployed, &c. But to afiume or nfc
a power of changing the appropriation, is
afluminga power to repeal the law itfelf
in itb moll efTenttal authority ; it is afTiim
ing that power of dispensing with the laws
uhich produced the late revolution with
Great Britain.
If the will ofthe minifler may controul
and give another diredlion to the will of
the legislature, the sovereign legislative au
thority is transferred from the represen
tatives ofthe people to the temporary mi
ni Her.
If we admit that the miniflerial agent
is not responsible for his conduct, nor fub
je£l to censure, because he is appointed,
uid in this inflance authorized by the Pre
lident, we will introduce the long explo
ded do&rine of Charles I. of Britain,
which brought ruin on the king and go
vernment. However, there is an eflentia]
difference, for in the cafe before us the
authority and inflruftions given by the
Prefldent were agreeable to the law ; but
the conduct of the minifler was contrary
to both.
If. as I have said, the application of mo
ney to its approp iated uses is the mod
sacred and important trufl which the le
gislature can confer, if the person directed
to apply the money applies it to what uf<
he pleales he may by that means command
all the influence and all the force of the
government. I conclude, that betraying
that important trull, partakes of the na
ture of treason.
The queflion before us is not whether
the Secretary has applied it to a good or a
bad use ; whether he, by departing Irom
the l:gal appropriation supported public
credit better, or made a more < onvenient
accommodation to what he or his friends
suppose to be the national interefl. The
conllitution or the laws have not confli
cted him the judge of the national inter
efl ; nor submitted it to his wisdom to
prescribe the degree of public credit which
the nation ought to poflefs. The public
credit and other national interefls ought
to be no other than the legislature wills it
to be, and ought only to be supported by
the means and in the manner thereby pre
fetched ; this is the voice of the conllitu
tion, the voice of the law, and the voice
of reason. The President and both bran
ches of the legislature being the real as
well as the legal representatives of the
people-, it is reasonable that they should
be the sole judges of their interefl. When
this house repeatedly called for information
from the -Secretary, they did not call for
political efiays, nor laboured apologies,
they did not conflitute him the judge, or
the inflru&or of the legislature; theyca
red nothing about his variety of motives
nor extenuve and felf-important plans;
these he might have reserved to embellish
a fyflem of finance, when he would again
be called upon to report to the house ;
they only required an account of his Hew
ardfhip. It was time enough to make a
pologies when he was blamed. Prefacing
his flatements with apologies, and being
irritated at enquiries, and artfully evading
so many calls for information, discovered
a consciousness of blame.
However, I will admit that an execu
tive officer, prefTed by some urgent and
unexpt&ed neceffitv, may be induced to
depart from the authorized path of duty,
and have great merit in so doing. This
may be the cafe with a general of an army
or an admiral of a fleet, and, though more
rarely, even with a financier. But in fucli
emergency, the officer so afling will em
brace the earliefl opportunity to explain
the matter and obtain a juflification whilst
the recent feelings aiifing from theoccafion
advocates his cause in the public mind.
Ha-i the Secretary done so in the pre
sent inflance? No; his conduct has been
the very reverse. Notwithstanding re
peated and explicit calls both the lad ses
sion and this present, the extent of these
tranfadlions was concealed ; a bill paded
this house authorising another loan of
Bco,oco dollars—a second bill was urged
in an unpieeedented manner for a loan *>f
2,c00,0c0 dollars, and tho' this was a fa
vorite bill with the minifler, the very en
quiry after this information induced his
friends to shrink from the business and de
sert the object about which they had dis
covered so much solicitude.
But when the disclosure is made doe 9
theie appear any urgent necessity to julli
fy the measure i A'o—there was none ex
cept what ex'ijled in the unauthorized plans
of the financier. He informs us that h:
thought it necefTary to have always 5 or
60c,0c0 dollars at his command. I ask
what Lw authorized Tiim to think so ?
Did ihe leg id At ii re judge this nectflary ?
A'o. Did lie ever (late the neceffitv to
the leg llatnre ? No, he did not ; and we
know he lias never been backward in re
:ommending revenue systems or in contri
ving uses for revenue. Suppofir.g a sudden
leceffity for money, a riling from a difap
lointfaent of (ome remittance, where was
the boasted aid of the bank which w::s to
(lave adminillered aid in all sudden eraer
jencies ? Could not bills have been fold
For calh when the necessity prcffeH, or
:ould not a temporary loan have been
procured from any of the banks? Certain
ly they could ; loans were obtained at the
bank when necessity required fuel) aid, and
when the public money to a much greater
amount was deposited with the bank. In
short no necessity of Hate purposes, autho
rised by the legislature, exilled. If there
was a necessity at all it must have arisen
Prom another quarter ; moll probably fiom
the bank itfelf and its branches.
A key to this suggestion may be disco
vered from a comparison of the times ol
drawing and the iituation of the bank ?.1
such times
[Here Mr. Findley was called to ordei
tipon the ground of this argument not be
ing confined to the resolution before tht
committee He alledged his argument:
applied (lii&ly to the charges ofviolat ng
the law contained in the resolution ; bul
as a further opportunily of applying the
jrguments ariiing from necessity ant'
Jifcretion, would be given, when a fubfe
quent resolution was brought before the
:ommittee, he would pass it now with s
irtrv few remarks ]
He said the ext mfe cf the power affiim
:d by the Secretary was inconfiflent witfc
-hat public confidence upon which alone
he government was founded ; that it wa:
nconfiftent with public fafety and a go
fernment of laws. That the Secretary
eemed to take the whole government up
in his flnulders & to confidcrall the grea
nterefts thereof to be committed to his pro
ridence. His reports spoke the languagi
jf a Frederick of Prussia or some othe
lefpotic tyrant, who had all the powei
efted in himfelf; not the language of p de
pendant Secretary, under a free and wel
ordered government 1"
[_To be continued.]
F O R~~ S A L E.
THE Subscriber wiihes to fell the HOUSE
and LOT in Princeton, now in the tenun
f William Worth , it is an eligible stand, eithe
or a private family or a traVefman, being lltuarec
n the Nortl) fide of the the centre o
he town, and a little cast of the market house—
The lot contain? forty-two feet in front, and up
vards of two hundred feet in depth j on the pie
nifes is ere£ed, and in good tenantable order, ;
wo ftorv dwelling house, twenty feet front by 2<
t) depth ; two rooms on the lower floor, with a;
ntiy fix feet wide j three rooms on the feconc
loor, and a room in the garret, lathed and plaf
ered. In the rear of the house, and adjoininj
heretp, is a large kitchen, and the cellar extend
inder the whole of the house. In the yard, then
s a well of excellent water—the yard and garder
ire enclpfed with a good pale fence. This houf
ind lot m ght be an object to some gentleman <vh«
night wish to educate his children either at th<
College or the Latin or Engiifh/fchools, whicl
ire conduced upon an improved plan—The titli
s indifj.utable, and poflelTion may be had the firfl
>f April. For terms apply to the fubferiber ir
3 iinceton.
JARED SEXTON.
J RINCETON, Feb. 28. 4 w2aw
JuJi Publijhed,
By H. & P. RiCE, No. 50, Maik.et-Street,
TII SYSTEM OF
?id y
Used bv Mr. Llovd, irt taking down the
DEBATES \>f CONGRESS.
REPRESENT ATI ON having been made,
that the fhorj.nefs of the period, limited fitr the
fubfeription, has deprived many gentlemen at a
iiflance, of an oppoitunicy of fending in theii
aames :—The Editor, .. order to accommodate
them, and to render tins publication more ex
[enfivtJv ufeful, has determined not to raise the
price to a dollar and an half (as intended) before
the fifteenth of ; —making hovvevrr a dif
rrimination, in favor of the a&ual fubfciibers,
by printing their copies on fuperjine royal writing
paper. Afeiu remaining copies of th will
be delivered to the earlielt of the non-iubferibing
>urchafers, at ttfe fame price as fhofe on the com
mon printing paper, viz. one dollar, inmaibled
covers ; neatly bound, a French (roiun.
Jan. 25. At.
?S A FEW COPIES Of THE ' '
TRANSACTIONS
Of the Society inflitutcd in the State of
Ni"w-Yor/\ for the pr amotion of
AGRICULTURE, ARTS, and MANU
FACTURES,
May be had at this Office.
[Price half a uollAr.J
Jan. 5.
TO B E S O L D,
By JOSEPH CRUKSHANK, in Mar
ket Jireet,
LETT E R S
Addrefiea to the Yeomanry of ihc United
States, fliewing the necefiity of confining the pub
lic revenue to a fixed proportion of the net pio
duceof the land, and the bad policy and injustice
of every fp* cies of indued taxation zna commer
cial regulations .
EY A FARMER.
Alf>, may be haa at the lame pljce, a few co
p;es of" t'ie FAIIMER's LETTERS, cqntvnlng
obf i vations on the dangerous fchrme of Goverr oi*
Duer ard Mr. Secretary Hamilton to eflabiifo
National Manufactures.
Feb. 22. 3t. law
Philadelphia, January 12, 1793.
MATHEW CAREY
Refpeftiully informs the Citizens of the
United States, that the Maps for his
intended edition of
Guthrie's Geography
r M P R O V ED,
Are now engraving—ana as Toon as a fufficient
number of" them are finifhed, to secure a rep i. ;
supply dur.n; the publicatiqn,which will proba
bly be early next Spring, the work will be pu:
to press.
He returns his acknowledgments to the very
refpe£)abie number of fubferibers, whh ave con.i
forward thus early to this arduous un
dertaking. He afiures them and the public ia
general, that no pains or exprnce shall be spared in
the execution of the w^/k.
Terms bf tJ. 1 Work :
f. IT /hall be publi/hed in 48 weekly num
bers, each containing three sheets, or twenty four
pages, of* letter press, in quarto, printed with new
types on fine paper.
11. Jn the course of the work will be delivered
about thirty large maps, of the fame size a* those
in the European editions, viz. most of theft*
maps on port paper.
Beji'des the mits in the Bntifh Edition,
this •work ivi I contain nine or ten Ame. > a* States
Alaps.
111. The price of each number wiy oe a quar
ter dollar, to be paid on delivery.
No advance required.
IV. Subscribers who disapprove of the work,
on the publication of the three firft numbers, are
to be at liberty to return them, and shall have
their money repaid.
V. The fubfcriberV names fliall be prefixed as
patrons of the undertaking.
%* Subfciiptions received in Philadelphia bf
the intended putiifhei ; in New-York, bv all the
booksellers ; in New Haven, by M . Beers : in
Hartford, by Mr. Patten j in Bolton, by Mef£»
Thomas and Andrews, and bv Mr. Weft ; if
by Mr. Rice j in Richmond, by L.r.
J. ; in Char.lefton, by Mr, W P. Young,
and by fu.idry other pcrfons throughout the Uni
ted States. " 1 awe
W A T C H K S.
ROBERT LESLIE,
CLOCK, aiid WATCH MAK.ER, No. 167,
Market-street.
AFTER returning his sincere thai ks to his
friends, and the public in general, for the
gieat encouragement he has experienced since the
commencement of his. business in this city, takes
'.his oppcrunity of informing them that, in con
fluence of his intention of going to London in A
pril next, he is felling off, at very reduced prices,
his stock in trade, confuting of a very large and
general of enamelled and plain gold,
gilt and fi ! ver, and cap r and i-vcll^d
WARRANTED WATCHES,
Most of which are of the latest importation and
newest fafliion, —Also a variety of the highest fi
niflied cut steel, and gilr, ladies and gentlemen's
Watch Chains, S-.-als, Keys, and Trinkets, toge
ther with a few Gold Chains, Keys and Seals.
Philad. Jan. 16, 1793. ef.tf.
Philadelphia <& New-York
STAGE S,
BY WAY OF
BORDF.NTON, fcf SOUTH'
AMBOT—
TT7ILL start from Samuel Ferry, oppo
site to Philadelphia, every Sunday and .Wed*'
n fday morning, during the winter fe.ifon, and*'"
airive at South - Am boy on Monday, and Thui fd. y
evenings—where a good boat will be ready tocoa*
v.-y Goods and PafTengers to New-Yoik.
The Stage boats will leave New-York every
Monday and Thu /day, so js to meet the Stages
from Philadelphia at Amboy,t» proceed for Phi
ladelphia next day. All Baggage belongfng to
paffrngersto be at their own risque.
All Goods forwarded by the Stages on bill, to
be under the particular tare of the Proprietors of
the Stages j but not warranted agxinft robbery or
damage—And all entering, cleaii/g and permits,
to be paid by the owners of goods.
Price of a passage from Cooper's ferry to New-
York, .... £0. iS. c),
2Co!b. t f Goods, to pay the price of a pa/Tage*
AH Way 3d pei mile.
AMOS HUTCHIN, and 7 For
NICHOLAS SCHENCK, S ton line.
VAN KMoURG H & M'KE AN, 7 For Border.-
and DAVID WILLIAMSON, $ to.vu line.
January 16, 1793. i«.-
For fate, at the printing office, a few copies
of the fir (I volume of the National Gazette.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS and S W A I N F,
AT THEIk OFF 'e E NO . 2. 9 , HICH-STRLST,
NEAR FIFTH ST R I ET,
P}'.JLADE L P M I A «