» v\V y y P ! 1 A i'x /
\ •, \• • /: / M :- \ -'■ \
A J ; 'n~ / X / V / [-! /' ! / . ✓ n fa
>; d N • • • \ h
;\H 'i ;Wl Mi uili!ifi H, ■ —■i;/ ii n /,('■,/ ;8 0
'•yj yyyy-f-y yyfry' > ;:X y^^k/
Numb. 41 of Vol. ll.]
I'' ' ; .
P. I R E j\~ EA U : PubUJhed Wednesdays i:id Saturdays, at Thref. Do llars -oer annum.
WEDNESDA Y, March 20, 1793.
- French nation. From this and other ii
t stances, it appears, that however high the
Secretary's regard for public credit may
he, there are other coniiderations which
have obtained a higher degree of his at
- tenTion, than a'o die.ice to the laws. A
gentleman from Virginia has so cleariy and
aaly explained thenatureofthatdifcretio; -
I ary 1 power with which the Secretary is vcf
ted, and so fully proved that there was no
. leceility to juftify a departure from tin
' appropriations made by law, that it is not
necefiary for me to explainfurther on that
'l head. However, I cannot help remarking.
that the discretionary powers were
a freely exercised—The drawing of bill,
began early, indeed—and were continued
to a recent period : The times of draw ini
fortunately corresponded with tlie necef
l.'ties of the bank, and the power of em
pioying agents was pretty freely, ufexi :
I'h j (air.e :» .ents were frequently both the
fellers and the pnrchafars of tiie bills.—
Perhap,this was neccifary : No douht it
I wai convenient : Probably it was Tafe ;
but \\ iio can fay, it will be always so ?
t I have not said so much to prove the
truth of the facts expressed in the refuluti
o;i; for, of this, there can be no d<;ubt .
iitis as clear a; the-fun fliiciug.in day-light,
i hut, in order to prove the propriety o
i this committee fxprtlEnz its difapprob.ti
: o.i of a condu't so uiijuflifiable.Tliat infor
i ni-toii waif withheld undulv is evident,
from the lateness of thi- discussion—that it
■ was obtained with diiaculty. is evident.
; from the numerous nppii :3tio.is we were
i obliged to make in order to obtain it.
Mr. MADISON next rose and ex
pelled himfelf nearly as follows :
' lie wiihe-d not, hj said, to w;:lle a mo
ment of the frtiall portion of time left, by
regretting its infilih-iciicy ffcr a full difcuf
lion of the fubje.-t before the committee.
, liut he i bought it due to truth, and to th..
fit ... : £sr? iKiihri.pt iftfrnt flfuiive<> |
colleague (Mr. Giles) in propofirtg the re
solutions, to remark that the lateness of
the day to which they had been poflponcd
did not juftify the ftr'n',hires which lir.d been
made on it. If the delay was not to be
co .lidered as lome blame at
iea.!i would fail elsewhere. The enquiries
in which the whole buiinefs originated,
had been moved by his colleague and pas
sed the House fouie v. cexs ago. The re
'ports in ailfwer xh these enquiries had not
tieen finally ma.'e and p.' ired a (ingle day
- before the prc'fent refulutkms were fub
m.tted to the house. He admitted that it
might have been impracticable to report
t:i„» information Called lor as early as was
denred by the house ; He v. a ,'i-nJible of
thtf anxi. ty that,would be natu - lly felt by
t i _r called tip • to j-rc-fent every
coiil.deration that might place his conduit
in ill ■ v,i >11 :'iv vurable point of view ; yet
with all t . 'fe ill iw. n- es it was impo(Ebk
| to deny t'-. it the r.-ports contained thing
which did not h-. io:ig to them, and t'here
fore ior.frncd tine which belong-< 1
to the period for difcuffiott: I'e would
mention our iuftanceon which there conid
lotpodvbly be a difference of cpipion, viz :
the vindication formerly undertaken by
the Secretary, oi'thr policy of b -.rrowrng
money abroad. Whether this policy w.-
right or wrong, the i?gifl-jtura had theiu
felves decided in favour of itand it mi:
the duty of the Secretary in complying
with the orders of the house, to inform
the houfe,how the law had been executed,
lot Why it had been made; to-exphiin hi.;
own conduct,not to juftify that ol the le
gislature.
It had been a Iked why the call for infor
mation had not been sooner made ? The
ailfwer was obvious and limple. 11 was
not sooner perceived by the house, that
there was such a nectffity for it. The
\\ lit of information was firft fuggefled
by the bill fir p ivin.g 2,000,000 of dollars
to the bank, altho-'200,000 only were im
mediately due, and for authorizing another
foreign loan to the amount of 2,000,000 :
From the dawn of light thrown by some
circ.imftanccs incident to the occalion, on 1
the darkness in w liich the House had re- 1
mained, proceeded those doubts and en- 1
quiries which had led to the information 1
now poirefl'cd. His colleague had great 1
merit in having brought about this deve- 1
lopement. He had rendered a service 1
highly valuable to the legillature, and nc <
less important and acceptable to the pub
lic. One good effect of the information t
had been, that it prevented the palfage of
the bill for borrowing 2,000.c00 of dollars t
as an anticip ted payment to the bank. <■
The bill bad dropt from the hand of it
palion with the lirft light that broke ii
upon the house. What other nieafure
•voir d have been prevented or varied, if :
like knowledge ol our funds and finance
liarl been C •.r obtained, was matter o
fclious «*nl:den ttotj.
-■ :other tonfeqceiKe of the reports ta
I;. 'I together, was that the face of then
p fen ted to his colleague, an evidence o:
charges contained in the refolntions
v, he ther at foJLte a day it was belt tc
isave the fubjeit as exhibited by the varf
o:is document- in print, for the exanimate
o i and opinion of the public, or ro press ii
o i the cc!:::derat:on of the house, was ;
point which every member had aright tc
decide for himfeif. His colleague hac
viewed the politions stated in his inotiot;
as too important to be suspended*; and a:
fupportcd by Inch clear and authentic
proofs. that a small portion of time would
I'tiiiice for the subject. Under this impref
i.'oti, what was his right became ins duty ;
\! he had difcharped it by offering his re
iViittions to the House.
As the HojiXe had.refufed to commit the
: #o introductory resolutions which eltab
filed t.'ie'ruleol judgment to beapplied to
tile cafe, and the I alt alio, which declared
. : ie inference to be drawn, the talk of the
: amniiltee was limited to a liiuple enqui
ry into the facts Hated .They were to
wake out and report a fpecinl verdiit ot
caefe, and leave it to the House to pro-
I'ounce the proper judgment ariling from
them.
The refoiution immediately before the
committee in poi red '■ that the Secret.iry
"i tile rreaiiuy id violated .lie. law pas
: d on the 4th ot .iug'.lit 1790 making ap
, : opfte .lion? of ctn:utr,monies " by
ai'plving a certain portion of th?'principal
4.crow ed to the payment of intereff on
ha* principal;"—-jteondly, > ; bv drawing
X 't ttjt the fame monies into the United
' rates withont or iiie' }'hs
iiclent.
The questions here are questions of fact;
and whatever quality may be attached by
diiferent gentlemen to the several feds, it
would feein as if the facts tliemfelves are
too clearly supported by the reports of the
Secretary, and the documents attending
them,to be denied or controverted.
The law of August 4, j-00, authorised
the Prefidept to catife to be borrowed
12,000,000 of dollars to be applied to the
foreign dgbt of the United Stat cs. A sub
sequent law of August 12, 1790, authorised
mother loan oF2,coo,cgo of dollars, to be
applied to the domeitic debt of the United
States.
A power to make these loans was dele
gated on the 28th August 1-90, to the Se
cretary by a general commission in the ufu
il form, referring to the several aits above
mentioned ; but without any farther dif
.riminataon of the loans to be made. As
:he law however for applying loans to the
■'oreign objefl was prior ill date, the pre
emption would rather be that it was to
lave a priority of execution ; that the ilt
noncy borrowed was to belong to the ift
ibjeit provided for. It was nnnecefTary
lowever. ro dwell on this conlideration,
lecaufe the Preside.it had removed nil 11 1-
rtair.ty by the precise explanations and
iiitructions which accompanied ;he power
o the Secretary, and which ought in truth
o be deemed a part of the commission.
The inftruftion having been more than
nice i't ad to the committee, he would con
ent liiirif.lt with referring to it. [The
• a t referred to is in the following words ;
' I do hereby make known to you that in
he execution of the J aid trujt, you are to
ibferve and follow the orders and directi
>ns following, viz- Fxcept where other
vife especially directed by me, you (hall
•niploy in the negotiation of any loan or
oans which may be made in any foreign
ountry, Win. Short I'.fq. You ihall bor
ow or cr.ufe to be borrowed, on the best
ernis « Inch liiall be found practicable,
vithin the limitations prescribed by law,
sto time of repayment and rate of inter
ft, iuch fiiin or funis, as iliall be fufficient
odi charge,as well us instalments or parts
it the principal of the foreign debt, which
iow are due, or (hall become payable'to
he end of the year 1791,3s all interests
nd arrears of interest, which now are
r (bail become due, in refpe£t to the said
ebt. to the fame end of the year i;gn
Liid you Ihall apply or cause to be applied,
!i: monies which (hall be so borrowed with
II convenient dispatch, to the payment of
le said instalments, and parts of the prin
ijial and inteielt, and arrears of interest
[Total No. 14.5.!
of the (aid debt. You lhali not extend ti
amount of the loan which you flvall mak
or canfe to in' made, beyond the Turn whii
'hall he necessary for completing fuih pa;
meat, unless it can bq done upon tern
more advantageous to the Uniicyl Slat
than those upon which tli? refidtie of t!
1 .id debt lhali fland or bo. But if the fa
relidue. or any part of the fame can ,1
paid off hy new Juan.-;, upon terms of at
1 antagetythe United S..ires,ycu Ihail cat!
such further loans as may be requ'.lite to I
made, and tile proceeds thereof to be aj
plied accordingly. And for carrying im
e tie ft the obi-el', and purpose? afortfaid
I do hereby further empower yGu to mat
or cause to be made, \v tth whomsoever
may, concern, such . contrast or contrast
being of a nature relative thereto, as Ilia
be found needful and conducive to the ir
terelt of the United States.""] By-thja for
iUal ast ifliiecl along with the comrniliioti.t
the Secretary, the Prelident delignated th
object to which the loans to be made, wer
to be applied ; and by declaring the objei
to be that provided for by the ast of A tic
4, 1790 he expressly placed the loan, un
.ler the authority and purview of that a£l
so that the moment the. money ihouid b
borrowed, it was toftand leg illy approuri
ated to i:s fpccifted object ; as much -is i
another la\v, authoritmg another 'can, so
another purpose, had not exilUd.
This arrangement of the PreGdent wr.
the more proper', not only became provili
011 for the payment of the foreign deb
iiad been the primary obj.ft of the Legifia
ture, and the payir.e.irpt the French debt
the anxiou-. vviiu of' his cqnllitueiits : bu
jbecaufe payments to France were no long
er matter of option, but c. j.s-IcC and po
iitiveobligation on the United States. Ii
proof of this, he J'tatcd tn.it the deb: t.
France, calculated to the end of i~yi, ani
computing tbe iivre at j 4-10 to a dollat
amounted to 4,81,4,814 -iuilars j, wivil.lt!..
payments axtutiTiy iViatre, ctimfjuti- fnl
florin at 2 1-2 to a dollar, amiSi-.ntcd to r
more than 3,372,717 ; leaving a balance a
the end of 1791, —1,442,097 dollars. Ad
ding to this balance, the indalments du
for 179 a, ar, ounung to 638,888, there
were to be paid within that year i,cEo,i 8;
dollars. The entire payments, however
compoted of 656,500 dollars paid in I'uropt
and 726,000, put to the account of St. Do
miiigof a1th0 , 0n1y444,203. 83. were aftuai>\
paid) amounted to 1.382,500 dollars, ler.v
ing due at the end of 1792, a balance ol
698,485 dollars.
Here he adverted to and read a para
graph in the report of the Secretary', pagt
16, where in allulion to the measure o]
:lrawing bills in the latter part of 179;
:ie fays, " 1 felt myfelf the more at liberty
.0 do it, becatife it did not interfere witi
t complete fulfilment of the publicengage
ncnts in regard to the foreign debt. It
:ould be done consistent with a full rtini
nirfement of all arrears and instalment
which had accrued on account of that
iebt." Mr. M. cbferved that as he could
lot reconcile this paragraph with the cal
. illations which he had:t.i:ed,& which were
Irawnfromoificial documents, he mult re
gard it as an unqueftionabte error produ
ce! by some hally view ol the fubjcct.
Returning to the comniiffioo, Mr.
cpeated that all the money which that
imminent, defined and qualified by the
nflruftion annt«ed to it, authoriftd the
lecretary to burrow, was actually and
pecifically appropriated to the payment 1 f
he for> ign debt, and under circumftanci s
larticularly urgent, jn relation to a part
if it.
111 what manner had this trufl been car
ied into execution ? It was to be obit-r
---ed with regret, that on the pery dry. on
vhich the comn ifiiori and hiflruftion ifln
d from the Prelident, the Secretary com
nenced his arrangements for diverting
art of a loan, accepted and ratified Lv
irtue of liis comn iilion, to a purpose dil
erent from that fpecified and required by
is inllruclioii. 'J hat a fail: of (o extra
rdinary a complexion, migl't be ;<:ouiui
d on the 1110 ft unexceptionable proof, Mr.
d. said he fhonld take the liberty of fup
orting it by the authority of the Secretary
imfelf. Here he read from the Secretn
y's letter dated Augult 28, 1;90, to tie
.Hitch Houtes from whom the lo'an had
een accepted the following vi
' 1 fliould alio willi, for particilliir reafonp.
hat the bulpefs may be so regulat'd as to
ive it the form of two loans, one for tw u
[..Tee lad tags']For t'a; National Gazette.
Friend Freneau,
TjY observing for some time past in thy
" newspaper, divers piei.es levelled at
particular foibles in certain characters,
written 110 doubt with a view to individual
amendment, and the public weal; and
also from hearing ttxictures on thj' con
duct, as being t.he publilher of laid pieces,
a:id an autifederalilt, I feci within me a
difpohcion to qireftion thee a little.
L.-t me ask thee, what are the motive;
for thy conduct ? Does tnee love to fifli in
troubled waters, or route to thine own de-
Kruction swarms of hornets, who will
watch thee till off 1 thy guard, and then
lting thee in every vulnerable part ?
Ii is perhaps thy intention, and that ot
thy paragraphias, to item the torrent ol
corruption in its fanrce, with the princi
ples of virtue and true repuulicanilni ; not
to pass over, in ihamenl inence, the wilful
error of any public officer, or the corrup
tion of any public meafwre.
Such a spirit would well accord and vi
brate bariuoiiiouily with the tone ol the
public mind in 177 j and iV7 fa - ut
not the times altered ? Has the honelt
. flame of ihofe days been nournhed with
veltal diligence? No —The principles ol
quondam profdlional patriots are, fro.i,
motives of interett, became twilled. Bend
thy itubborn neck, and become thou twill
ed also. Nay, become a cork, and float
Uninterrupted down the gutter oi corrup
tion.
Thee mud surely be blind, else the ex
amples of others would have taught thee
wisdom. rial! Thee not ohfeivnl ven
geance on tiptoe, menacing tile reputation
and honorably acquired fame ol a departed
Sage*—a ma . the uniform and unmaken
friend of America in her 1110,t gloomy
days; her pride and ornament both as a
statesman and phdofopher : and tor what
Becaul'e a descendant 01' his dare ad.nit
through the channel of nis free pre fs, stric
tures on the foibles of an exalted charac
ter. A political deadly iin thij to be sure 1
Neverthc.efs, tiie meafureof thy corrup
tion is not yet full—yea h.d it overflow ed,
thy Country is merc.ful. She does good to
those who have injured her g.nerous ex
ample ! how worthy imitation. Let me
for thy encouragement inform thee, that,
if thee had the spirit to accompany her moll
inveterate foe;, even into her metropolis,
and there diilort thy jaws in loud huzzas,
and triumph over difcomfited patriotism;
notwithftaiiding this, I fay, theep.obably
wuuldlt hive friends. 'I liy regenerated
country would finale thee out, perhaps, a
nio.lgit the f'orcmolt, aj aa oojeic, not of
refentment,'but of favour, not ot ven
geance, but of regard ; and probably dif
tmguilh thee with a trust both of honor
and profit.
Cease to be like the tall cedar, or stub
born oak. Become willow, vine, or ivy.
Become any thing. At any rate, become
flexible. Get tnee to some Ihreu d mailer,
profoundly versed in chicane, genuflexion,
and sycophancy. Hear his le lions —Pre-
cept and example will effect any thing.
Learii of him the courtly knack of ali'ailing
both the head and heirt, under tlie plausi
ble m ilk of profeltional lincerity. By
conduct of this kind thy friends will be
multiplied, nay, they will become as nu
merous as the lands on the sea lhore. A
linecure will be thine inheritance, the pro
tits of which will be augmented, feflim al
ter felfioi, unt.l the annual emoluments
thereof (hall exceed thoufauds. Print, 01
even write, but do not condemn public
men, or public measures. Not one word
of corigrejfional time wafted at the com
mencement of ever) Jefjian ; of the ihame
ful negleit of some members throughout ;
or of bulinefs <if real impu tance iuniped
tow ards the close. Make 110 mention of
public dollars wafted u ider the lhamelul
pretext ot co upenfatihg extraJervicts.
Write thou, yea, and .et thy correspon
dents exhatift their bottles of red ink and
blacx in the indifcriinin ite praise of every
public measure. Remember, 1 tell thee,
it will be for thine own private profit.
Go thy way, pin chafe barrels of lime,
and hundreds of white lead. Paint and
whitewalh —colour with liberality a.d free
dom of fancy. Thy typographical labors
1 will be requited—thy rev ard will be cer
i tain. MONITOR.
f March 15.
* See Gazette of the United States, of
February 23.
For the National Gazette-
Franklin, Number VI.
TRACTS are stubborn things, and neither
A to be talked nor voted way. The pub
lic mind is returning with frefli emotion to
the enquiry into the Treasury adminillra
tion, which wasarrefled for a moment by
the tumultuous voice of an interested fac
tion, and the triumphs of a legillative ma
jority, which decides nothing, or by con
demning the authors will doubly condemn
the obje£h
The tone of conversation is rapidly
changing. Even the einiffarics of specula
tion, who haunt the co.Teeh mfes, and bab
ble in the streets, begin tofoften their note,
and to feel the reverberating force of
truths which tliey can no longer elude or
refill.
Could it be otherwise ? Fair argument
was offered. How was it refuted?—By
sophistry and- evasion. Clear proofs were
ftateel. With what were they opposed?
With detecteel calculations and unfounded
affiercions.
On the fide of the minority, appeared
temperance, order, and dignity. On the
lide of the majority, w hat ? A precipitancy
that confirms fnfpicion; a contempt for de
corum, under a pretended zeal for " Or
der and the joint outcry ofßank-Di
reftors, (titling the utterance of truths uiott
interelling to the public ear.
The fubjeft is again bef ore the public,
and there are dilintereded men who will
examine and judge for themselves.
It is the character of truth to be firnple
and confident. Error and wrong forever
entangle and betray themselves by theii
own contradiftidns.
\Vhil!t the Secretary was preparing hi;
correction of the Errata, which made hi!
printed ftatefnents unintelligible or delu
live, his unlucky champions were trumpet
ing them as clearer than the fun at noon,
and reproaching the blindness of all noi
equally gifted with this new species of se
cond-light.
The Secretary acknowledges the free
doms taken with appropriations, and strive:
to workout an apology rather than ajulti
li ation. His advocates, on the contrary,
maintain that his measures have beer
ftrictty conformable to law.
The Secretary declares himfelf "com
pletely refponlible in all instances, whert
Ipccial exceptions, (to wit, inltru&ions fron:
tlie President) do not appear.'''' His unwary
advocates leave him ultimately behind the
fcreeu of inftru£tions from the President
xvhijh do not appear.
The Secretary admits that a full view oi
the public monies and funds had . ever beer
rendered to the legillature ; and is content
with an attempt, (an auk ward one. to be
lire) to throw the blame from himfelt 01
the legifljture. His reprcfentatives have
so far mi (taken the interest of their conlli
tnent, ai to affirm, some of them, that full
information was given ; others that theie
giflatnre had no right to it.
The greatelt folly of all has confined i
?xpefting that such a ti title of contradiction!
:ould divert an enlightened people froix
demanding a fair account ot their finances
and of the execution of the laws appro
priating their money.
Why, they begin already to repeat, wh]
'lave the laws of appropriation been fport
?d with ? Why have the Inttrudtions of the
President, in pursuance of law, been in
fringed and affronted ? Why has a gallant
nation in the friendlhip of liberty with the
United States, been kept out of the money
:lue to them? Why have immense film
icen drawn from their legal situation, and
Icpo.lted in the bank—under a reprefenta
ion, when one purpose is to be answered,
hat it might be paid to the bank, not lie
lead to the public ; under another pretext,
.vhen another explanation is requilite, that
t will be absorbed in the uecefiary expen
litnres of the current quarter ?
Why, it is again demanded, have the
longrefs been kept in the dark ? Why ha
he President been Kept in the dark ? Wh)
lave the commifiioners of the Sinking Func
jeen kept in the dark ? Why have bank
tirettors, and the favourites of bank direc
ors. be» n alone deemed worthy of the fe
.rets of the public money ?
The boalted difference between a free
government and a Tyranny is, that the for
mer is a government of laws, not of men
Appropriations of money are the laws thai
liould be held mod sacred. So they are
.■iewed by theConflitution, which has made
:heir inviolability the palladium of libertj
g.iinft the greatest of all dangers, the dan
ger ot' (landing armies.
A precedent therefore, which invade;
ippropriations of public money, is the mof
ilarming that coulel be exhibited in a younj
■epublic. That it should have been co
;val with the firftaeis of our Fiscal Kiltory,
s an omen lingular as it is menacing.
This wanton infraction of legal appro
bations is marked with every additions
colour that could slain the tranfaClion.
Belides being a breach of the law, with
out even the plea of necessity, it was a mofl
flagrant attack on the dignity and authority
of the President.
It was a breach of public faith folemnl)
plighted.
It was levelled against: a nationwhei
had aideel us in our struggles for li
berty, and needed our aid in "niggling for
her own : who enjoys the gratitude and
affection of the people e>f America, and
whole glorious cause is dignified with the
hopes, and hallowed by the prayers, of
every human being that groans under the
chains and scourges of despotism.
Are other aggravations wanted ? Behold
them in theftudied concealments from the
representatives of the people, and the spi
rit of contumacy when summoned to give
information.
Trace them in lending the public money
to the Bank without interest, anil borrow
ing money at the fame time from the bank
■with interelt.
Do y-'.i v.'iih to go farther ftilf ? Vol)
muli do what a most responsible represen
tative [Air. F.j was hindered from doing ;
you mull compare the dates of these fifcal
manoeuvres with particular bubbles ci spe
c 111 ;tion, and with the well known parox
y'.ms of the bank.
And if you are defiYous of unravelling
the whole plot, and understanding all its
curious incidents, you must open the trans
fer books of flock, and the discount books
of the bank ; and compare with these the
names, and dates, an.l v otcs, to be found i:i
yotir public bodies.
How afflicting the fpeflacle! Inthe in
fancy of a republican conllitution, are dil
clofed the distorted features of a;i old
monarchy, worn out with debauch anddif
eufe. The mylteries and obliquities of its
lifcal operations are copied with an admir
ing servility. The subtle virus of pecuni
ary influence is inoculated into the vitals
of the government. Even the outlandiih
dialed of political craft is wickedly mi
micked by the venal pens of newfpapcr
partizans. Enquiries into abuses are nick
named an Oppolition. Oppolition is a pur-
Tuit of office. Patriotism ishypocrify. In
[he thirst of power and the base arts of
"eeking it. human nature is, with them,
universally the fame. And in this refpeel
jnly is the doctrine of Equality admitted
;o be true.
Americans, you owe your liberties to ?
:levelopement and defeat of the flrll infi
:lious eflays of Usurpation. Remember,
hat you must prefcrve them by the fame
vigilance !
FRANKLIN.
Philad. March 18, 1793.
Ferthe National Gazette.
tT appears that the French nation have a
length tified and condemned Louis thi
XV lih, and that the {'entente of the nati
on his been executed upon him. Whet
we reflect that it has been usual, for form
time past, even with Americans, to view
through the darkest medium, the londut
of a people, whose generous and maul;
struggles for liberty, entitle them to th(
";ood wilhes and applause of every true vo
ta.y of freedom, we need not be fm prised
• hat this late event is viewed v. ith extremi
lorror by many among ns. Such are th<
prejudices and flavilhprinciples which hnv<
been early imbibed by numbers, that Na
ture's God is unjullly charged with havin;
eilablifhed those diftinclions among men
which are merely artificial, and the refill
of social combinations. Hence kings an
Hill considered, by many, a 3 the Lord' 1
.4: ci/ttd, as Ibiiwtlskig above ttieioHWlloi
run of mankind ; and their misfortune
excite a much greater degree of fynipathy
than those of a thoufincl of their fubjetts
however virtuous, and however iinqui
toufly ojprefltd by the hand of tyranny.
Had no royal blood flowed in the vein
of Louis, his fate, in all probability, wonlc
neither have called forth a sigh nor a tear
from those who are so ready to bewail th<
fall of royalty. But, Mr. Freneau. is i
not extremely ungenerous, is it not ex
tremely tinjuft, and, let me add, indecent
for any man in America, with his prefen:
information, to vilify the conduct of:
whole nation I Surely it would be prcpei
to filfpend filch virulent cenUires, till tin
circumstances of his trial, and the eviden
ces of his guilt, are better known ; and noi
to condemn, as an unnecefia y act of cru
elty, the punishment inflicted upon liim.
without being informed, whether jnfticf
and national policy have not united in de
manding the facrifice of his life. At an;
rate, his life ought to be considered but a:
the life of one mat! ; and I hope there art
nou/j among us, so loft to every principle
of reason and justice, as to think that the
life of a man, who had fliewn himfelf ;
traitor to his country, ought to be.placec
in competition with the freedom and hap
piness of twenty-fix millions of his fellow
creatures.
March 18. A REPUBLICAN.
PHILADELPHIA.
March 20.
Extrai7 of a letter from a gentleman if,
Cafe- Francois, dated lei. 18, to ahouji
in New-York.
" Since our arrival, there has been a grcal
battle fought with the negroes, in whicl:
400 were killed, as many taken prisoners,
and a great number dispersed. A granc
house belonging to their general, whicl
they had built for him, fell into the hand:
of the \\ hites ; and I am told it was as e
legantly finifhed and furniflied, as if it hat
belonged to the firf> planter in the colony.
The plains are cleared to the extent of 21
leagues, and the Hacks driven back to the
mountains. It is expeflrd that a numbci
of the planters will very shortly return ti
their desolated eflatcs. There was a great
infurreition of the mulnttoes here in the
beginning of December; they demanded 10
be admitted as officers in the regiments
then arrived from France ; they were de
nied—flew to arms—febxd the out polls—
turned the cannon upon the town —fought
and fired in the fireets—terror nn<! confii
flon ensued; They Ihick firm to v.- t they
had undertaken ; (wore they wornd die to
a man, or carry their point. The' .um
bers were formidably auiitcd by ; ... free
negroes, and at length the whites found it
prudent to admit them both into tiie mu
nicipality. So no'.i' we fee mulatto and
black officers, ftruttinw about in uniform,
equipt a la militaire."
We understand Col. Proctor i-; returned
to this city from his million to the Indian
country, N. W. of tlie Olio, relative to a
treaty of peace. It is said, he went no
further than Legionville, aiiotit 30 miles
N. W. of P.ttfburg, where he received in
form .ition from the Cornplanter, that ii;<f
people seemed inclined tor war, and it
might not be prudent for the colonel topay
a vilit.
Extract of a Liter from Lisbon, dated Fe
bruary Hth. (By the Dominic Terry,
Capt. Deliart.)
" The poll brings this day a certainty of
die execution of the king of France, on
the 2i ft of January Jail, between 10 and
11 o'clock of that day. It is said he flip
ported liimfclf with great cour. eon the
Dccafion ; mounted the fcaffold with cod '
deliberation, and attempted to make ;»
speech which tended to his i nocence ;
however, the troops were ordered imme
diately to beat their drums and fund their
trumpets, i.i order to prevent his being
heard ; which he perceiving, inaddi a re
verence to i ll around him, and laid his
head on the block, which wa.< in mediate
ly fevered from his body. A ..... v. dug
in the Temple court, near the fc lioid,
where the head and trunk \\ ere thrown,
then filled up with' earth, and jived. As
loon as the execution was effected, t' ree
huzzas were given by the fpecl.uors, li
thrown in the air, and it is f id the t x.
tioners and many near the fcaffold <, . '
their buttons in the king's blood, . rk.i
of victory and triumph.
" The queen and the king's (if . »re
put into tlie common gaol, ami comm; : '
to civil jiif!ice for examination and sen
tence. A report prevails that they were
|int to death two days after."
In addition to the above, Capt. De Hart
mentions, that previous to his leaving Lif-».
bon (which was on the 9th of February) a
number of French royalists there hrd put
dii mourning for the king, which is a proof
that they confidercd the news, as brought
by the post, true.
Captain Boys, of the fiiip Perfeveranee,
«ho arrived here 011 Saturday last, after a
passage of jQ.c'qys from C-Uijltar, nseati-,
ons. that a few days oeforir l.e f.ileri a re
port prevailed, that officiallntelligeiice had
been received by General Boyd, the com
manding officer there, that the king of
France was beheaded on the 2 i-ft of Janu
ary. It was, how ever. :.fterw ardi under-
Itood, that no official accounts had been
received ; but that information to that ef-
I'eft had reached Gibraltar, thro' a channel
ol private correspondence : it can there
fore be confidertd, by no means, as a con
firmation of our foi jner accounts.
The following is an extract of a letter
brought by Capt. Boys, dated Gibraltar,
Felj. 12.
"We are fiill in a {late of uncertainty
with refpeft to peacc or war ; tut now the
unfortunate ki: g of France is no more, ha
ving been put to death 011 the 2ill ultimo.
We il all foe n know what determination the
powers of > nrope will come to. Spain
has agreed to join Great-Britain and h oi
land againfl France, and is making g; eat
preparations for war. The Aljerines
have declared war againfl the Dutch, be
ing difpleafid with the last presents they
sent them. \\ e have a strong squadron erf'
Portuguese men of war here.watching the
Algerines, so that there is no danger oj \ ef
ftls tmder American colours coming to
this place."
An abuse, existing in that frate, is much
complained of in some Mafiachufetts pa
pers, that seems to require redress ; \
the power given to a fheri'i", upon the oath
of onepcrfon, to order a freeman for cer
tain offences, (filch as breaking jail, or tin?
like) tobetied up. stripped, and flogged at
a whipping post, without even the form of
trial. "It may be w ell worthy ofour at
tention (said Governor Hancock in a late
speech to the legislature) to investigate the
question, whether the infamous punifli
ment of the public whipping post, so fre
quently administered in MalTachnfetts, is
the belt means to prevent the < ommifiion
of crimes, or abfoiutely necefTary to the
good order of government, cr to the fee 11-
rity of the people. It is an indignity to •
human nature, and can have hut little ten- '
dcncy to reclaim the fufferer." Certain
ly, the punifliment is infamous enough
when legally inflicted; Int becomes an
outrage on the political and social condi
t tion of /nan when inflicted by the arbitrary
order of a fheriff, who then becomes to all
intents and purposes a despot.
It is mentioned in a letter from Burling
ton (Vermont) that an inhabitant of th: t
place, in digging a well, found frogs at the
depth of A : ty l'eet, v hich from every cir-cuiiiftanee mu.l have 11:n there from time
immemorial. Whenfirft di.covered, thej
were apparently dead, Imu upon being ex
posed to the air they soon b?taiKC.:;l:ve anc:
hopped about. Those of them uliichwen
cot conveyed tothe Water perished in a fev,
minutes, but those that were, became gooe :
frogs, and "found (fays the writer) 1 dart
f .y, a happy refurri-iiion.''
The old court-game of keeping up a fpi
lit of eliffention in Ireland, on the score oi
Catholic and Protestant, seems verging tc
nn end. A large new chapel, upon a libe
ral plan, is now erected at Lifburne, ir
that iflantl ; wherein, in November lad.
a congregation for the firfl time all'emblcd
of not less than one thonfand persons, ca
tholics and proteilants imlifcriminately.
for the purpose of public worship.
Lemuel" Benton, E<q. ischofen a mem
ber ol the Koufe of Representatives of th
United St.ites for Georgetown and Che
raws, in South Carolina ; and Alexander
Gillon, Esq. is chosen a member far Beau
fort and Orangeburgh.
A French v'pffcl, arrived at St. Mark:
in Hifpaniola, left Nantz the ijt \ of Ja
nuary, e'n;ht days previous to the tinu
mentioned in the Lisbon accounts of t':i
execution of Louis j6th. At the abo\ ■
xlate there was not the least suspicion o
fueli an even; taking place : on the con
trary, every thing wore an afpeft ofpeacc
and moderation, and the current news o
' the place was that Spain was disarming ir
consequence of an amicable negociatior
which was going forward between thai
kingdom and the republic of France.
The latefl intelligence from England
directly to this port.is to th" nth of Janua
ry. from which it appears' that preparati
ons for war, \\ ere going on, altho' nothing
decisive hid been determined upon.—
Neither w.i< there any well grounded ex
pectation of the death of Louis the 16th
so that if full an event really took place
only four days after the date jult menti
oned, it lr.ult have been the effe£t of some
violent and sudden commotion of the Pa
riiians.
The Roman Catholics of Le'and have
sent a deputation to attend the Levee a!
St James's, and present a petition to tlu
king enumerating the multiplied grievan
ces they labour under, complaining of the
severities. disqualifications, and opprefli
onsunder which they groan, merely for
exerciling a freedom of opinion in religi
ons matters, and praying that they may bt
put upon a footing with other Britilh Cub
jefts in that respect.
The mob, (laid to be univ.erfilly the
tools and aelhgre-J of the administration
have burnt Thom is Paine in effigy, in sev
eral towns and vill u;es of F.tigland. It i
added, that these executioners of ministeri
al vengeance are univerfallv vagrants, ant
the lowett and tnofc infamous banditti c:
the if and : not an honest man, a man o:
fentiruent, or a man of the mult moderate
degree of i efpeftability to be leen amonj
them.
It was determined, on the 4th inft- b;
the Hottfe of Representatives of the M il
fachufetts legislature. that it is not uncon
lVitutionjl for the members of Congref
elect, to hold feats in the llate legislature
The famous Daniel Shays, who made fc
much noise some years ago, as head of
party of insurgents in the Rate of Maifa
chufetts, matle his appearance in Boftor
the beginning of the present month, to sup
port his former application to the legifla
ture, to be restored to the rights of citi
zenship.
It appears from a publication in Tht
General Advertijer of yesterday, that Mr.
Blanchard was a loser to the amount ol
fifteen hundred dollars, and upwards, by
his -aerial ascension on the 9th of January
la ft. Notwitiiftanding this difcou ragiuj
circnmftance, Mr. Blanchard hasconfentee
to open a feeond fubfcripcion,and ao soon a:
a fufficient number of names appear, wil
ascend in a larger balloon than before
(with a companion) from some place ir
this city, on a long voyage. Several curi
ous experiments are tu be tried in thi
flight ; and dogs, cats, and other animal:
are to be let fall from the height of the
clouds, to descend unhurt to the earth, b\
means of a parachute N J3. Ticket:
for admifSbn to the place of ascension to be
had at one dollar each.
Instead of reviling the French republi
cans as monsters, the friends of royalty ir
this country should rather admire at then
patience in so long deferring the fate o:
M their perjured monarch, v nose blood i:
probably confielered as an atonement foi
the fafety of many guilty thousands that are
fftdl fufiereel to remain ' in the bosom ol
France. Who but mufl execrate the vi
c:s inseparable from a throne, and the
murderous principles of the abettors of
monarchy, when herecoliec 5 \vh it was tc
have been the fate of the republicans of
Paris, had the Duke of KrunlVick reached
that capital with his army in i .ill force ? —
Let the following document ,declare it,
which the reader may elepend i.pon as de
duced from unquellionable authority.
"The plan of the emperor and the king
of Pruifia for the campaign of tjj; was,
if pofiiblc, to prnetrate as far as Paris.
W/ien the army had entered Paris, tlie in -
habitants were to have been alfembled on
the commons. A difcriinination was then
to be made : the revolutionists were to be
t 'put tix death. The particular fate of the
rcit \v:u not exprefsiy mentioned. Very
probably however, the fyfVem of the rmpe
ror was to be adhered to, who, in his uia
nifeitos, luid ordered all his governors ot
to tiis not to ipare any, on the least ap
pearance of revolt, except won:en and
children, and in cafe of illegal opposition,
to burn all the public stores, magazines of
powder, &c. awl set fire to the towns, as
it was thought proper to leave the country
desert rather than inhabited by revo/tcrs.
Such was the language of the combiner
kings. Jn all cases, the houses of the re
volutionists were to be delivered up tc
plunder, and such floods as should chanct
to be saved were to be confifcated to tin
use of the king. There was also an agree
ment between the combined courts not t<
receive into their dominions any republi
can revoli|tionitt; and the lilt of proscrip
tion was lb be extended to those who hat
a/ter a certain time removed into foreig'
countries ; and finally, that war was to bt
declared againlt all powers who should e
vade, or not agree to, the above league
a,id a manifelto to be publilhifd in confe
que.ice thereof."
A French paper [Patriate Francois
gives uc the following scale of Beings
beginning with the molt sublime of all aiu
descending to the lowest dregs of his vifi
ble and invilible creation j—viz.—God—
Angel—A tyrant killer—a philanthropic
An honest man—A labourer—A flothfu
cowardly citizen—A moil!-.—A faint —/
hero—A king—The devil—(credit is giv
en for the above scale to Au Knglijh Re
publican. ) f
A Portrait of the present King of P raffia
(From a French Paper.)
" One would be almost tempted to thinl.
him the king of Sim-calves. He has nei
ther wit, strength of expreflion, confiften
cy, or application. In point ot talfe he i:
an epicurean hog, and possesses not a sin
gle qualification of a hero, unless it he
pride ; an.! it may be fairly quef.ionet
whether even this is any thing more than s
narrow cockney species of vanity. It is tc
be feared too, that the general contempt
into which he will soon fall, will by irrita
tinghiin, take away even the little pood
that is in him. lc is certainly a great
weakness in a man who is devoted to the
mod licentious pleasures, without choici
or delicacy, to be anxious to throw the
veil of lecrefv over everv thing, in a poll,
where it is next to impofiible that any
thing can be a secret. —He is extremely
ignorant—and as to love, he can hardly b;
said to love any thing, fie has been given
to nnderlhind that to be a great character
he should be a German. He debases him
felf to the level of hi* national genius in
l'tead of exerting himfelf to raise the genius
of his nation, became his views never ye:
extended farther. Ifhe really hates any
tiling, it is a man of good sense, which is
unnatural to him. He hates the one be
cause hedefpair of attaining the other,and
seems not to have conlidered, that thofc
who really have good sense are generally
the lalt to know they have it."
\_From the General Advertiser.]
" Weareall crying out for equality, and
republicanism, and deviling modes for the
eftablHhment and preservation of princi
ples fojult and natural. Yetwhillt we are
aiming our blow s at what frequently are
but the shadows of aristocracy, we cnerill;
and protect the substance. A good physi
cian will search for the cause ot the disor
der, and w ill not content himfelf with pre
venting its immediate cffefls, but will
eradicate whatever may produce them,
and prevent even their possibility. We lop
off the leaves of the noxious weed of aris
tocracy. the root is Hill nourished in our
foil, and will sprout out with encreafed
vigour. Any infringement upon the forms
ot°equality and republicanism, seems at
once to (hock us, yet by <jur laws we make
ililtinaious, which are not inimical to the
equality wc so much admire, but upon ex
amination w ill be found the very support,
the very foundation of the ariltocratical
fabrick we have been demoliOiing, upon
which; if not removed, another, (till stron
ger, may be raised.
" It would be difficult to account for so
threat an inconsistency, did we not take into
v iew the implicit deference which is gene
rally paid to custom and habit. Forms and
laws, founded perhaps originally with the
llrifleft attention to the ends they were to
promote,, are handed down from one ge
neration to another, and transported from
one country to another, where they are
not in the leaf! degree applicable. Blinded
by habit and prejudice, we travel along the
accuftomcd path, often at the expence of
juffice and propriety.
" The confhtution, or at least the go
vernment of Great-Britain, requires a dif
tinflion in the different orders of the peo
ple. There arc titles which are to be flip
ported with dignity and therefore with the
title descends a Efficient property.
in all other governments of the fame ftairp
we ft id the funic difti ;iftions guard ed b> lawi
as a fundamental coiiftitutional principle,
out hi /..-'erica, w here we profefs republi
camfm, there ihould be no hereditary dif
tiflftions, no advantages for priority of
birth, J'or we fay we are all equal. Why
then do we in the cafe of inteftacles, give
a preference to the elder son, a preference
which is not only repugnant to the lirlt
principle of our constitution, but. to the
principles of reason and justice, and which
can be juftified in no other manner but or
account of the unnatural inequality, t<
support some governments. Nature woulc
;ell ur. that all the children of one fnthei
are-equally entitled to the affection anc
bouncy of their common parent. Justice
would teach lis rather to prefer the young
est born, who are destitute when coining
into til? world of the immediate affi'.lanct
and direction of their parents, and there
fore fnoulcl be recompeifced for the disad
vantages they neceftarily labour under,
We are often told of the assistance which
an elder son affords his parent, when the
age of" younger children makes them bin
burdens. But I believe this affirtance i:
much cftrner expected than enjoyed, ant
moreefpecially so with refpeft to the eldest
brought up in the accustomed deference
and refpeft which is paid to the heir at law
" Let us then follow the example c.
France, who although when fubjefted t;
the dtfpotic sway of tyrannizing monarchy
(lie railed the eldeit son a step above hi:
brethren, yet as soon as she was enlight
ened by the rays of true republicanism
abolilhed the odious diftinftion, or to ad
duce an example llill nearer, let lis imi
tate many, molt of our filter states, wh<
acting jiiftly and confidently, have in thi
respect put all things upon a level.
'-I will address myfelfto the republi
canifm of our legislature, who I am sure
wiil flcp forward arid blow up this rem
nant of of aristocracy by an ast whicl
would meet the general approbation o:
their constituents."
Extract of a letter from Tobago, Feb. 14
Last week about 3000 French regular:
made adefcent upon this illand. One se
venty four, two sixty fours, and two fri
gates anchored in Cow's Bay, and deman
ded a surrender of the island. The mili
tia are continually under arms, and we
have every reason to expect a war be
tween England and France."
Letters from Europe generally afTeri
that war between Great-Britain anc
France was considered as inevitable; am
thnt.as many of the European powers wonl<
probably lake the field this fnminer againf
France, there would be an immense de
naincf for American provilions from th<
French, who were making every necellar;
preparation to face their enemies.
Late on Monday evening arrived lieri
the ffcip Trial. Watts, from Lisbon, w hicl
port (tie left the -th of February.—Englifl
papers had then been received at Lifbo
giving the particulars of the trial and exc
cution of Louis the XVlth. By th;
Trial. London papers are received to tht
22d of January. In the feflion of the Na
tional Convention of Jan. 15. the firfl ques
tion was put, " Is Louis guilty or not guil
ty of high treason, and of attempts againfl
the general fafety of the State ?"—Thv
nominal call being begun and terminated,
the President of the Convention thusfpoke
—" Out of 735 votes, 26 have had leave oj
absence ; fi\ e have been absent by illness ;
one for cause unknown; twenty-fix have
made divers declarations ; and fix hun
dred and ninety-three have voted for the
qucltion in the affirmative." The Presi
dent then pronounced " Louis Capet guilt)
of high treason and of attempts againfl
the general fafety of the State.—
The second question was then put—"fhali
the appeal to the PEOPLE take place ?
The sentiments of the members were di
vided on this question, the saving of the
king's life being thought a certain prelude
of a civil war. M. L'F.galite (ci-devant
Duke of Orleans) who had before voted
the king guilty, now voted also against the
appeal—a majority of 280 appeared again!"
the appeal—The President then rose a se
cond time and pronounced as follows :
" The national convention doth decree thai
the sentence which it (ball pionouiice upoi
Leuis Capet, shall not be referred to tilt
appeal of the people."
ExtraCi of a letter from Paris, January
17, 1793-
"The National Convention, after fit
ting 34 hours, has just voted that the pu
nishment of death shall be inftifted or
Louis the 16th. This sentence was carri
ed by a majority of more lhan one hun
dred. Fifty of the members tho' they vo
ted for death, differed in opinion from the
rt'lt in refpeft to the time when it fnould be
inflicted, some thinking, it fliould not be in
tlifted till the end of the war, and others
proposing that it should be postponed till
the sense of the people should be taken —
Amazement and terror appear universal
ly to prevail ; ayd the confufion of those
'. ho are known to have been attached to
the Royal Prisoner, can more easily be
imagined than described. So great was
the general terror-dnring this long fitting
of the convention, that the men; -
bers, who went to the Hall on Tiiefdaj
morning with a politive resolution of fsving
the king, if poifible,found themselves com-*."
pelled, by the molt urgent motives of per
sonal fafety, to vote against Jiim. —There
undoubtedly \yas great renfon for this ap
preheniion ; for a moll formidable mob
was collected, which openly threatened
by name many of the members, to mur
der them upon the foot, if they did r.ot
vote for the death of the king."
London, Jan. 15. The funds rose yes
terday near one and a half per cent. This
Teemed clearly to indicate the opinion of'
the market to be favourable to peace : but
why this opinion prevailed we are ignor
ant. We believe it proceeded entirely from,
the utter incapacity of the public to disco
ver an adequate reason fer going to war.—
Lord Grenville in his anfvver to M. Chau
velin slates the conquers of the French in
Savoy, in Rrabant, and in Germany not
precisely as aggre'flions, but as proofs of a
spirit of propagating their doctrines in
manner highly offenlive to the peace of ail
neighbouring nations ; and that, if they
expett neutrality, they mtift forego tbofe
cOnquests, and withdraw their troops with
in their own territory. If it be true that
such propositions have b»»n made by the
British court, it is not likely that they will
be cordially received, unless they have been
accompanied with our offer to recog
nize the republic, in cafe they are compli
ed v. ith, and no offer, we understand, has
been made.
There is no doubt but the temperate and
manly cotirfe, becoming the dignity of the.
British people, would have been to have
treated with the French ministers frankly,
instead of insidiously, and every object
which we have a right to demand, would
have been complied with, if allied for
without insult; for through the whole re-,
volution they have made it their (ludytft
engage the friend/hip of England.
[From a Correfpondtnt.~\
The general concern that seems to agi
tate the citizensof theUmted States, at the.
accounts (still somewhat doubtful) of the.
traitrous and perjured Louis the XVlth,
the inveterate enemy of his people, having
loft his head, is a convincing proof of a
strong remaining attachment to royalty in
this country. Lut is it pofiible that preju
dice can so far mifleadthe fympaihy of re
publicans, who in the time of their own
Hruggle for liberty were perhaps less in
clined to pardon crimes .«f tr; afon than
the French, especially in the infiances of'
Major Andre, Carlisle, and Roberts. —Le
any man only recollect the jonchtft of
Louis Capet, his many heii\diu crimes, hi-,
flight after having taken an catii to bo.
faithful to the nation, the impediments he.
constantly threw in the way of the revolu
tion, the aid hp afforded to the enemies of
France, and, laflly, his treason and reite
rated inllances of hypocrisy —I fay. « her,
a man conliders these things, let him 1 efleft
it Louis merits our tears or copipu' on.
On the other hand, let him revolve in his
mind the fateofthofe victims, facrifned
m the Champ de Mars, by royalty and La
Fayette ;* as also the fate of those patriots
who fell on the tenth of Augulf ; and the
twelve hundred defenders of liberty maim
ed and massacred at Frankfort—thefe. and
not the momentary fate of a perjured king,
Ihould be causes for exciting the sigh of
sympathy from the brealls of real repub
licans.
* An immense number of peaceable ari
unarmed citizens were aJJ'embls.d in the
Champ de Mars, at the altar of their conn
try, to ftgn a petition relative to the de
throning of Louis the XV Ith, after his
flight. La Fayette at the head of his mer
cenary troops, after r crtiai lau- had been
proclaimed, ordered them to fire t,pon theja
citizens, and between tyuehe and fifteen
hundred were killed.
"Tgwri
For the Rational Gazette.
To Jonathan Justice.
SIR,
tN your acklrefs, in the National Gazette
of March 9th, you seem to intimate that
the Indian War is tinjuft,confequently un
necessary, and with some person superior in
point of ablilities, to f.iew thejufhee of it.
Indeed, Sir, my mental powers are not
fufficient to discover any injustice in the
war, and I have aflerted the justice ard
necelfity of it. Jf you will be so obliging
as to produce your arguments to demon
strate the injustice of the war, I will at
tempt a reply. You have every encour
agement (o engage in the bulinefs ; and a$
your a ntagonil s abilities are no ways
equal to the talk, Your's in contrail, will
(bine with the greater lustre.
DAVID JONES.
March 18.
■s
PRICE OF STOCKS.
Six Per Cent? jr/3
Three Per Cents J if
Deferred n/S
Bank of the United States i6|<r. c t
B. N f America 12 d*.; '....us wnJcr •»! e fir ft sSk, a:u! t!»c otbi r
I r on* « under f-V fccnvd. Eat r.ri
ll.'.'i" ab tl;,i:r. Ifu solicitous as to he
willing it t::ou!d constitute an emb ttraff
nu : t."
" I ii Jl'nc a mi' i: n and a half of this fun
c: . " p'tyvtnt to Frattcc under the c!irtdli->ll
i I M . Short, our ch r;;e dt-a affaires at
that court, whose orders foi that purpose
you will ple.tfe to follow."
1 lie afpi.it here prtlented by a compa
-1 lon of the f. ve a! documents \Vns lir.gu
lar and remark ible, I hi; fubotdinate of
jeer appeared in direst opjM/fition to the
chief n.agiftrate. The agent was seen o
verrtding by his own orders, the orders ol
bis principal. The language of the Pre
fident was—!'y virtue of the power veil
ed in me by law, I d- (line the mon y tc
be borrowed to the discharge of the inttal
merits and intcrefl of the foteign dtbt.—
The language of the Secretary was—]
deflinc a pari of the monev oniy to th it
purpose, and a psrt to be brought to the
U. S. for other pnrpofes. He left every
member to make his own reft cfi ions oi
thia view of the fubjeft. He would on!)
ob( rve in general, that it demor, lira ted till
truth . fferud in the proportion, that the
.Secretary bud violate • both the law o
August /t, and the inftru&ions o
the Prtfident relating to it.
He then proceeded to a more diftinfi
view of the two points particularly liatec
ill the resolution.
'I he firll was "that a ce:tain portior
of Ihe principal borrowed under the ail
of August 4th, 1790, bad been applied cc
the p yrnent of the interest falling due or
that principal." As the fact would lit t
be preluined, be denied, he forebore ti
quote that part of the documents whicl
admitted aud authenticated it. He won't
however premi e, to any observations or
it, a cursory view cf the nature of appro
pi iations.
It was unncceffaiy to repeat the em
plistic remarks on thi fubj ft which bar
fallen f nm the mem'ier from Pennfylva
nia ("-Ir. lindley.) It was fufficieutly
undeftood, he concluded, tint appropria
lions of money were of .1 hijjh and sacred
character ; that they were the great bid
wark \vh ch our constitution had careful y
and j'raloufly eftablilhed againll executive
uirpationi. lie meant onl t:> take no
ti.eof the different pl.ms into which ap
j.roprialioiu might be moulded and q!
the particular operation which ought to be
given to them.
One of the plans was that of appro
priating fpecified funds to Ipccifir 1 ob
lefts, i i which the supposed certainty ol
the funds w.s adjlifted to the supposed
iiliportance of the object
'i'he o her plan formed all the bran
ch.':; of icvenue into an aggregate fund,
on which the several objects (hould have a
| riot ity of claim, accordirg to their su
periority of importance.
It was evident, that in both these ca
fes, the legiflaturc alone possessed the
competent authority. The exc ufive right
i f that department of t e government
to ni ke the proper regulations, was the
bails ol the utility and effieaiy of appro
priations.
There was a third qucftion incident to
the dcitrine of appropriation , viz whe
ther, under fpecilic ppropriationi, such
as had been adopted by Cougrefs, the ex
e utive authority could, without f >ecial
p r.niffion of the law, apply the excess of
one fund'to the aid of a deficient one ;or
borrow from one fund for the object of an
o'her. On this question there initilit per
haps be a difference of opinion. He would
only remark, that admitting such a discre
tion to be implied in the tfuft of executing
the ans it would flillbe requili'e that the
due fanftaon of the executive fliould be
given, that a regular account fhoul.l be
kep: between the different funds, and that
all advances from one to the other, fliould
be re:i!.:ccd as foc.n .is poflil.le. I his vva-.
equally necessary to the prefcrvation of or
der in the public si iance», and to a proper
refpedt for the authority of the laws
In Ihe present cafe it did riot appear
that the monies taken at different tune
from th< loans defignaied by the Prefideiil,
and thereby placed u der the appropr a
tion of the ast of August 4th, , 790, to tin
foreign had ever been replaced. Ii
did not appear that any such lepiacemvnt
was regularly planned or provided fur —
It was particular y worthy of obfeivation,
moreover, that the only use within tin
United States for which any loan in En
10 ie c< nld be afligned, was that of th'
linking fund ; that the trullees of this sunn
had never been even informed of the
that if all the nonius drawn !;nd been cur
to the finking fund, the limited sum
of i,OCO,COO of dollars would have tbeeu
exceeded; and that the fta'tments and ac
counts lisd in fait I.•■en f» w.ii :<j t'p, a
mentioned by tl e secretary, that not a
lingle dollar of the money laid out in pur
chafiug the public debt, had been charged
on loam drawn into the United Stales ;
a'tho' such wr.s the only purpose to which
they were lega'ly applies! 1., and f:ich thi
principal reason assigned for making the
drafts
He did not go into a particular proof
that the sum drawn into the United States,
after fubtradting the whole sum placed to
a fore gn account, exceeded the sum ot
2,000.c00 ofdollais, because the fadt had
been conceded on the oth.r fide particu
larly by the llatement of t' e member from
Connecticut, (Mr. Hillhoufe.)
hus it p: eared clearly, in confi»ma
tion ot the fir 11 point, that the application
of a certain portion of the principal bor
rowed in Europe, t> the payment of the
interest was not a mere tianfpofition of
moni s, to prevent the fending them back
wards or farwaids. Ncr an advance of mo
ney from one overflowing fund in favor of
a deficient one, but an absolute diversion
of appropriated money ; a d conlequt ntly
a violation of the law making the appro
priation.
The second point in the resolution r< la
ted to the drawing of monies into the Uni
ted States without the inftrudtion of the
President.
This point bad been fully efiablifhed by
the documents and explanations a plied to
'hefirfl. They had done more: ey
ad demi nftrated that the inltrudtiona of
the Prefident,which dedicated the loans, to
be made under hiscommifli mi, o a foreign
object, were an express prohibiti no drat»
f r any domestic object, It was f fiicient
herefore to n fer to the inflrudt ons of the
President, and to the contradictory (leps
t&ken by the Secretary.
Two attempts have been made to elude
the force of hefe official proofs
Ihe firll app aled to the President's
Tpeech at the opening of the session in
1790 ; to the report ol the Secretary made
n consequence of it to the H< life ; and to
he supplementary ast ofCongreft pafTetl in
ionformity to the r port.
I :a.l the circumflances involved in thi
ranfedtion been attended to by those wo
eemed to rely on it, Mr. Madison w .•
jerfuaded that a reference to it would ne.
rer have been made by gmtlem n on th :t
ide. As they had thought fit, however,
o draw arguments from that fourcv, it w s
iroper to give an answer to them : and
he be it answer would be a naked (latent nt
)f fadts
The infirudtions of the President to the
Secretary were given, as has been seen, on
he 28th of August 1790. The letter <if
he Secretary contravening this inftrudtion,
rvas dated, as has also been seen, on the
ame 2lith day ofAuguft, 1 790.
I'he adtual drawing of hi Is by the Se
■retarv commenced on the ijtu of De
.ember 1790.
The law now pleaded in jollification of
he conduct of the Secretary pasTed on the
jd of March 179 1.
There are titer f'dts material to a cor
edt and full view of the hulinefs.
I he speech of the Prefi I nt was deliver
don the Bth of D cember 1790. It
>riefly informed the House that " a loan
>fth ee millions of fl lins, towards which
ome proviiional meaftires had previotifly
aken place, had been completed in Hoi
and," and '• that the Secretary of the
frcafury hail his diredtlon to communicate
uch further part iculars as might be re
juilite for more precise information "
The consequent report of the Secretary
■ecommending the provilion in the supple
•nentary adt, was not received till the 25th
jf February 1 79 t, fix days only before the
:onllitutional diflblution of the House,
In the interval between the speech of
the President and the Secretary's report,
lie had proceeded to draw bills to tile a
mount of 793,392 florins.
His report, nt witliftan ling what has
been fa'd of it, contained not a word fr. m
which it could be known th t a single (1 >-
rn had bee 1 adtually drawn over to the
United .'•tales.
The other attempt to elude the evidence
before the committee recoiled w-th equal
force on the gentlemen who had hazarded
it. In the report lately made by the lYii!-
lees of the finking fund, i a (latenicnt laid
before th.m by the Secretary, in which i; j
'* noted, "11.r.t the acceptance of the'oaii
of three n.ilJions of florins, and the app ica
tion of one third of if to the purpose of
that fund w s under the consideration of
lie Prelident."
Fio'n this fact it had been inferred, not
only t'.iat the Secretary had withheld no
proper information frum the trustees, bat
ihat the result of t!ie Prelident's delibcra
lions on the fubjeft had varied the purpose
fignified by his firll inflruftions to the Se
cretary.
k happened, however, mod unfortu
nately for the gentlemen who exulted in
thin argument, that they had entirely o
veilooked the dates of the two papers
The paper l iid before the trustees and al
ledgcd to liave explained the final pur,iofc
of the President, was dated on the ij h ol
Augull 1790. The paper relied on bv
the other tide, as the final, as well as the
moll forma) designation of the will of tht
President, was dated the 28th of Augull
179 a. The gentlemen, therefore, inllead
ot the inference they hadmade, fh.valJ
hsve reversed their premises, and joined
with their opponents in concluding thai
tin President was led, by a consideration ol
the fuljeft, not to do what the Secretar
in his rote to the truilecs, fee:red to anti
cipate, but what had been evinced by the
Prcfidrnt's own ast of pollerior date.
he second point, then, as will as the
fi;(l, refls 011 the moll solid proofs tak.r:
from a collective view of authentic docu
mcuts.
Much has been said on the nectfTiy o
I mctimes depar ing from the ftriftnefs ol
leg I appropi ia ions, as a p!. a for any free
dorm that may have been tak n with them
bv the Sen tary. He would not deny
that there might be emergencies 11 tht
course of hnman affair , of lo extraordina
ry and p effing a nature, as to a solve (I<«
txe utive fr m an infl»xible Conformity tc
the injunctions of the law It was, never
thclifs, as eflVntial to rememl er, as it wai
obvious to remark, that in all such cases,
thenccifii'y should be palp.bit ; that Ihe
execut ve fanftion (hould flow from the
fnpreme foutce, and tlut the firll oppor
tunity should be foized for communicating
to the legifl.itlire the meafares pursued.
wth the re Tons explaining the neceflily
of them. Th s early communication »-ai
equ il v enforce ! by pi udence ami by duty.
It was the liefl evidence of the motives foi
affu ning the xt'aordinary power ; i' wai
arefpect manif-llly due to the legiflatm
authority ; and it was more particularly
in 'ifpei.fible, as that alone would enablt
the legislature, by a provident amendment
ol the law, to acconwiodaie it lo like e
mergencies in future.
In the proceedings f.dli g under tht
pref nt enquiry, no neei Iliry appeared sot
he liberties which had been taken, th.
money appropr ated in Europe being inort
wanted there than ;t home. It appeared
that the inilruftions of the supreme exe
cutive, inllead of warranting tliofe liber
'its, had precluded them. Nor had tht
prope explanations been disclosed in dut
time to the legillature.
To phrc the fubjeft in a more dilinft
poiiit of view, it was proper to advert tc
lie preeife authorities and duties o» the
Secretary as his ollice ia defined by the
ast ellablilhing a treasury department.—
For this purpose Mr. M. read the second
feftion of that ast, wh eh is in the woidi
following—" That it (hall he the duty ol
the eeretary of the Treasury to digell or
prepare plans for the improvement and
management of the revenue, and for Ihe
fuppo t of public credit ; to prepare and
report estimates of the public revenue and
the public expenditures ; to superintend
the revenue ; to decide on the forms of
keepi g and lining accounts, an I making
returns, and to grant under the limitat ons
herein ellablilhtd, or to be hereafter pro
vided, all warrants for moil es to be issued
from the treasury, in pursuance of appro,
priations by law ; to execute luch fe viccs
relative to the sale of the lands belonging
to the United tates as may be by law
required of him ; to make uport and give
ins rmation to either branch of the legif
l.i urc, in person or in writing (as he may
be required) lefpefting ;1 1l mr.tcrs refer
red to him by the Senate an I Ho.ife ot
Reprefentativea, or which (hall appertain
to his ollice ; and }> t nera liy to pt. Ilorni all
such lervi. es relative to the finance., as lie
(halt b diiefted to perforin."
This cllablifhment of the office, cvi 'ent
ly had 110 reference btyon the cafe of fu
pt lintending the regular and ordinary col
li ftion of the revenue, and granting war-
1 1 •" . >
' " ' ' '■ !' ■ 1 i
1 ; I . v • I .
' •>' u «'! 1 V , ;;
" ' ' •> . , )
' 1 (,i ti 1.1 ; . a r~, ,r. ,j._
I ... ■ ,'. m l j.,. ; l - i
' • • - '' ■ '' ' ' l
II ' •■■... ; .1 ' , . ~ - • I
1 ' '' ' • '' 1 : ■ ■ - ••*i iv !r
' : ' ' ••< i i•• I ; " 1 ■
■.. . ! ;
!'' () j-; S A ;•/
;
. ,
; - ■> •/ - ' • ' - !
'-' r
'li - V
1 i • t
' - •• — • -«*