4 ' *'
Numd. 45 p{ Vol. 11. j
Adit!tixr>a! Report of the Secretary of the
Treajiry, Relative to the Loam negoti
ated tinder the A.ts <f the 4/h tiad nth oj
Jig '/?, 1790.
TrkA'-ih Department,
I•itntary :J, 1793.
SIR, ■. " ' ' ' *
TH-, lalt letter, wfthb I had the honor
1 A to address to tilt' Houle of Repre en
t • lives, c«nt»iae«l a pretty full expomioi
of tl:e conduct a'ttl views of this depart
ment, i:i regard to loans There
1 email, however, for.re incidental topics,
vs hich it may not be expedient to pass over
in silence.
In order to carry the attention of the
house immediately to a jilft applicat 0:1 of
the remarks which w ill be iubmitted, it
necefiary to preirife—that it is known t-.
have been Aiggefted, thas the proceeds of
the foreign I ill drawn for to this country,
had no object of public utility—anfvyered
none—and were calculated meiciy to in
dulge a spirit cf favoritism towards the
bank of tne United States.
It has already been fhevvn clearly I trirft.
th it but for the inltru mentality of the parts
of the loan drawn for prior to April 1792,
amounting nearly to one half of the whole
sum, the purchail s of the deb: which were
made to that time, could not have been
made ; and that these piirchafes, hefide»
being the obje.'l cL.-figi.nle I by law, for the
application 0/ the tund, were productive
of positive and important advantages.
Ho v far the operation could have been
i lfluenced by motives of favor to the bank
of the United States, the following facts
■will still more completely decide.
The bank did not begin its operations till
the 12th of December 1 ?9«•
The banks of North-America and New-
York wer* the agents of the treasury for
the file of the hi lis in queftio 1. Tiiey fold
them, coUefted, and, with the exception
which will be presently dated, dilburfed
the proceeds.
The receipts on account of those bills,
began in M irch 1791, and concluded in
M 'rch c 92.
On the Jift of December 1791. as the
Treafu "er's account before the House wiil
fliew the public ca.h was deposited as foi
-1 )\vs— Dols.
In the Bank of the United
States ij3t co °
I 1 the Bank of North Ame
rica - - - 47-i)97--
I:i the Bank of New-York 224,67 35
In the Bank of Maifaehu
fetts - - 65,57. 2s
In the Bank of Maryland 50,665. ,
In the Bank of Providence 7.9 6 9- 61
Malting together, Dollars -5
There were then alfofome monies in the
banks of North-America and New- ork.
in the course of receipt, which had noi
been parted over to the Trcafurer ; but al
the' public monies of whatever kind, in t!u
bank of the United States, are included ir
the ah.ive sum of 133.000 dollars, whicl
had ar'fen from the duties on imports and
tonnage.
It appears then, that on the °f De
cember 1791, no transfer for the benefit ol
the bank of the United States had been
made ; antj that the depolits of the gov
ernment there (exchiliv-' of the proceed;
of the bills remaining in the two banks ol
North-America and New-York) amount
ed to little more thai) i-4th of the deposit:
in the ; bal>k' of North-America, and little
more than 1-2 oi tiiofe in the bank oi
New- York.
A > late as the i!t of February, the state
hanks continued to (hare with the bank ol
Th • United States a proportion ot the
public depolits. The Uate of the treafurj
was as follows, viz. Dolt;.
In the Bank of the United
States - - - 456,273.9 c
in tie Bank of North Ame
rica - - - 151.516. 32
In the Bank of New-York i28,";o8. 21
In the Bank of Maffachu
(i'tts - - - 71,215-55
In the Bank of Maryland 49t58j- 25
In the Bank of Providence 7.969- 61
Making together, Dollars, 865,271.84
A concentration of the public depolits
in the bank of the United States was a
menfirre which grew out ei the relation
between that ellablilhment and thegovern
nient. Yet in ft cad of ha 'ening it through
favour, it was resolved to let it have a.gra
By P. FRENE AU : Pubkjhed Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
WEDNESDAY, April 3, 1793.
dttr.l course : so as to consult in a due de
gree, the convenience of the other bapks ;
and to eEeft it rather by letting the public
d.foui fements f;i 11 upon the monies in those
banks than by direct transfer.
But a state of things took place in the
month of February, between the batiks of
the United States and North-Africa,
u hie 1 rendered a more expeditious fVatif
tl'r :itr, was meditated, for the li'utuai
Liinv ;e of the two institutions.
The c of t! is >vas. thattlie (Tate ol
the Treasury oa the lit of March, (food as
follows. Doll:.
In the Bank of the United
States - 65)2,959. (
8..: c of Maflachu
fctta - V ~ e 9- 5
Bank of New-York 31,351. 52
B ink of North-Ame
rica - 31,515- 74
Bank of Providence 8,404. 94
Bunk of Maryland 34.; 5=- 85
Making together, Dollars 831,"54. it
B-.it at this time, there was in the bank
>f New-York, from the proceeds of the
foreign bills, 1 21 ,984 dollars and 71 cents,
not transferred to the account of the Trea
surer.
Tfci3 accumulation, however, in the
Sank of the United States, was of very
liiort duration,
On the 1 ft of April ensuing, the state of
the public cafli was as follows. Dolls.
In the Ban!; of the United
States - 37?> 6 43- 6 4
Bank of New-York 354,930. 41
Bank of North-Ame
rica - 3 1 5. 74
Bank of Mafljchu
fetts - 37,71-- &
Bank of Providence
jju..-- of Maryland j 2
Making together, Dollars 751,377.34
A similar {lata of tilings lafled to the jft
of June, comparatively more d.fjdvanta
jeous to the bank ot the United States,
she receipts oi public t\ venue continued
to go into t'le bank of New-York till the
til of April, 179:, wh .i • branch of the
bank of the United State.? began to oper
ate 11 that city—w l.i his the reason of the
Liiu in the bank oi New - fork bearing so
near a proportion to that of the United
States, and so f if«. exceeding the bank cf
No.'th-America. B) cli: time aifo, the ba
lance of the proceeds 01 foreign bills had
been pal:'..:! to the account of the Treafur
er ;y v .'.ill remaining . , depo!'.: in the
b>:... 01 New-York.
hefe view? of the state of the public
calb rp conformable to the Treasurer's
ftateninit of half monthly balances, ac
cvmp-Uiying my ktter of the 14th inltant
No. V.
The fame statement n 1(1 a t vv, that a
proportion of tile public depofi'S has con-.
t>'tied since the lit of April 1792 in the
:ate banks; in thofc of North-America
aiul New - York down to the e :d of the pe
riod, which that ltatement embraces.
from these details the following infer
ences are dudticible.
That as far as any advantages may have
accrued from the depolits 011 account oi
the foreign bills drawn prior (o April 1793,
they accrued fubltantially to the banks of
North-America and New-York, not to the
bank of the United States or to its branch
es. That in transferring the pecuniary
concerns of the government from the pre
exiiling banks to that of the United States
and its dependencies, a cautious regard has
been paid to the convenience of the form
er institutions, and the reverse of a policy
unduly solicitous for the accommodation
of the bank of the United States has pre
vailed. Indeed so much has this been the
cafe, that it might be proved, if it were
proper so enter into the proof, that a cri
ticism has been brought upon the conduct
of the department, as confuting less the
accommodation of the last mentioned in
llitution, than was due to its relation to the
government and to the services expected
irom it.
But further examination will demon-,
ftrate another paint ; whuhis, that none
of the eftablii'hrnents in queflion have re
ceived any accommodations, which were
not in perfect concidence with the public
intcreil, and in the due and proper course
of events.
This examination will be directed to
wards two objects , one, the state of the
Treasury, at the commencement of ea.h
quarter, during th? years 1791 and r 79--
the other, the ltate of the market, in re
gard to the prices ufftock, during the fame
years.
These periods are because they
afford the truelt criterion of the Hate o!
the Treasury, from time to time, being
tliofe at which the principal public pay
ments are made ; and for which it is nir
leifary to be prepared by intermediate ac
cumulations.
The state of the Trecfury at the peri
ods ii] quefiioii, was as follows :
In the year 1791.
January 1. Dols. 569,886.55
March 1. - 373.434-S3
June 1. - 533' 6 33-24
f October 1. - 662,233.99
J In the year 1792.
(January 1. - 953,862.75
April 1. . - 751,377- 34
July 1. - 623,133.61
October i. - 420,914-51
3793, January 1. - 783,2 12- 37
This appears from the flutements Ino.
IV and V, forwarded with my 1 ast letter,
The Pot of theflock m;.r:cet, during the
several quarters of the fame years, was as
follows—
First quarter of 1791.
Six per cents from 16/9 to 1-/6
Three per cents from 8/6 to 9/4
Deferred from 8/6 to 5/4
Second quarter of 1-91.
Six per cents from 17/ to 17/9
Three per cents from 9f to 10/
Deferred from f'/i 1 to 5/4
Th'rd quarter of (791.
Six per cents from 17/10 to 21J$
Three per cents from 9/9 to 12/5
Deferred from r/9 to 12/10
As early as the fcth of August, the lix
per cents had a temporary rife to 21\J'. but
by the jhey had fallen to 2</, on the
2Cui they had rifento2o/6, and w ere some
times above that rate, but never lower
during the reft of the quarter.
As earlyasthe23d of July, the three per
cents had reached 12/, and were some
times, higher, but never lower during the
relt of the quarter.
On the 23d of July, the deferred also
reached 12/. and afterwards rose to 12jb.
Fourth quarter of 1791.
Six per cents from 20/4 to 22/4
Three per cents from 12/2 to 13/8
Defer, ed from 11/8 to i_/6
Tlie prices wereloweft 111 the early, and
highelt in the latter part of the quarter.
During the whole of the month of De
cember, the deferred was at 12/S and up
wards ; the greatest part of the time at
'3/'
First quarter of 1792.
Six per cents from 21/ to 25/
1 liree per cents from 12/6 t» 15/
Deferred from 12/ to i 5/
The low prices w ere in the last ten days
of March.
Second quarter of 1792.
Six per cents from 2cj tq 22/t
Three per cents from 12j to 1
Deferred from 1/6 to 14/4
Third quarter of 1792.
Six per cents from 21/ to 22/3
Three per cents from 12/4 to 1;/
Deferred from i»/3 to 1 If]
Fourth quarter of 1792.
Six per cents from 2cfx to 21/9
Three per cents from 12/3 to 13/fc
Deferred from 1 1/10 10 13/6
In October the deferred was at the high
elt. The lowelt prices were in the month
of December.
This view of the fnbje£t is derived from
f. fiatement of prices pursuant to actual
purchases aad faies, furnilhed by a dealer
of this city, refpeciable lor his intelligence
and probity, combined with the accounts
from time to time published in the Gazette
of the United States. The papers mark
ed A and If, are transmitted for the more
particular information of the lioufe 011
this head.
The market prices of stock no doubt
varied at other places, as loir.e may have
been higher, at others lower. At Phila
delphia too,'tis believed, that firiall funis
were obtained at particular periods from
necefiitous individuals; below the prices in
the Statement.
But there is good ground of reliance that
it is substantially a jult representation of
the state of the Hock market, during the
periods to w liich it refers.
Tiie date of the Treafurv from the ill
of January to the Ift of October, 1791.
[Total No. 14.9.]
may be said to have been at its proper le
vel, exhibiting none or an inconfiderable>
excels beyond thefum which has been men
tioned as necessary to be there, ana con
cerning which a further explanation has
been promised. and will be given in thii,
course of this letter. The jmulic purcha
tVi and Septemher, 179;, amoun
ted to 346.7 it) dollars and 9y cents.
In the laftquarter of the year, 1791, be
ginning with the month of November, and
the firit quarter of the year 179.2, there
appears to have been an escefs of fovne;
magnitude 1:1 the Treasury, being item
abou-: 2.50,000, to about 456,000 dollars.
Taking the firft quarter of 1 79.2 as the tru
est criterion ; (which it certa.uly was, be
caule ac the expiration of that quarter the
payment of inrerelt on the aflumed debt
began and was to be provided for J the real
Excels ought to be considered as 230,000.
dollars ; with the addition of about 80,000
doHars then i:i the bank of North-America,
from the proceeds of Amfleruam bills, be
yond the advances of the Bank lor the pub
lic service ; which had not been pajJc.L in
to the Treasurer's account. It is propel,
to remark that the course qf imputations
occafioits large receipts in the l.after pare
of each year, which clrciimliance contri
butedto the accumulation in quefuon.
From the lail of November to about, the.
2Vft of March, an investment of the excess
on hand in pur chafes was impracticable.
To- enable the House to underhand wha?,
is meant by faying that purchases were im
practicable during that periud, it ii neces
sary to add, that the priccs of flock, ex
ceeded the limits which the c<iuinii(liqit»j s
of the linking fund had prefei i'oed to them -
"elves. Indeed a large propm tion of the;
time those prices were mainici'.] / arfiti-iil,
and such as predicted a great i .U not fa;.
:li(la:;.t. The delay incurred accord-
t ..^
which invetioieuts were afterwards mad*.
From the 2ill of March to the ij'hui
April, purchases were fcffe&ed to the c-x
---:ent of 242,688 dollars and 31 cent;, in fpe
:ie ; within 80 or 90,000 dollar* of what
:ould have been spared, conliltently with
:he rule which has been mentioned, as
proper to regulate th? arrangements ps
1 reafury.
But two circumilances operated againlt
i further investment—a (Udden rife of
prices and a state of temporary d.forder 1.1
the two principal nurcantjie fcenesof the
country (occaiioned by the excessive fpeiil
lations that had preceded) which adiwi
lilhed the treasury to be cautious in itsdif-
Durfements.
It refillts from the foregoing view of the
übjeft, that as far as any extraordinary
"urn may appear to have remained unem
ployed in the banks a longer term than
ivas delirable, it proceeded efientialiy frun
i state of things, which did not permit its
employment ; and is in no degree attri
jutable to that spirit of favoritism towards
Jiofe ellablilhments or any of them, which
lias been imagined as the solution of ap
pearances, not rightly imde.lioud, an 4
much overrated.
The only quell'on, then, of which the
matter is fufc>.p;ible, is this—\\ ; s not tha
(late of things, chat did take pi ce, to have
been forefeen ; fp as to have influenced
the drawing for a proportionally Uls
sum ? 1
This question may fafeiy be anfwrre;' in
the negative.
The bills, the proceeds of which contri
buted to constitute the «-xiefs, which re
mained unemployed during the two quar
ters, were drawn in May 1791- luth.it
month the highest prices of flyck were
17/2 for iix per cents. 9/2 lor three per
ients, and 9/3 for deferred.
No reasonable anticipation at this junc
ture, of the progreui\e 1 iie of fUnk could
have carried i. in so (holt a time to the
height which it attained, cr beyond the li
mits within which purchases w ere deemed
advantageous. 'L he rapid and extraordi
nary rife, which did ensue, was in fact ar
tificial and violent ; such as ho dittfee c
calculation of probabilities could havepie
fnppofed. It therefore cannot impeach the
prudence if expediency of having mane
proviliou, on a diifcrent fuppoiition, ior an
extenfton of purchases.
The proceeds of the bills which wera
drawn fubfeqnentto May, only began to
be ccllcifi d about the beginning of Febru
ary, and continued in lollec.h 11 till the
29th of March. Oil the fecund of Ft bruany
the film received aniouftteil to no uic 1 e
than 13,431 dollars and jjcents.
[To Le coMh-ued ]To the EDITOR of the NATIONAL
GAZETTE.
" Have wn laws, or have we no laws ? Ij
"we htive laws, and they are not ob/'erved,
" to what end were the laws made /"
Speech of a Wiseacre in the British
House of Commons.
S I R,
TIIE extraordinary fertility and other
natural advantages of the North Weft
ernTerritory are not unfreqitently the fub
je£t of converlation. 1 feel a ttrong desire
to vilit that country, and my neighbours
are extremely anxious to join me. 1 lie
hostile disposition of the barbarians had,
indeed, excited some disagreeable appre ■
jhehfions; but thefefoon yielded to the con
viction of bettering our fortunes; and of
leaving our children in circumltancei in
dependent, it not affluent. We know, be
lidos, that the present warfare mult have
its period—perhaps at no great distance ;
and that a right application of the meuns
which government polTtlTes, will aluay
command a peace. So tar have we renfon
ed away certain difficulties which appeared
to oppose the projected enterprise Bur
there is yet a coniideration remaining, of
all others the molt interelting, in as much
as it affects that which isnearelt a treeman
heart, and without which lite is but a
worthless gift—l aliudc to the government
»ci admivi fter&d in the country of my future
■scopes. Thither I mean to take with me
not oniy my property, but my liberty a.u>,
And hence, some farther or more explicit
information than I at present poflefa, ap
pears to be previoudy necellary. toward 1
the removal ot some scruples that haunt it:*.
imagination. I am persuaded, Sir. you
-will neither blame my great caution, nor
rieiufe a place in you- ufeful gazette, t<- ten
or a dozen "uerie that have intonhation
alone for their object.
Or/eflion i. Perceiving that the Ternton
al Secretary exercises multifarious powers,
and speaks in the firft person plural, (as
fame monarch? are wont to do) are v. ;
nat to consider this d.gnified mode of ex
prefivm as emanating not from his tingle
person or capacity alone, but from the
dual, the triple, the quadruple, the quin
tuple. or the sextuple capacity ot that com "
pound officer, who thus may be one. and
moreover not o:ie, Uut fix,five sour, t.iree,
or two persons ; and yet neither of two,
nor three, nor four, nor five, nor fix capa
cities ; but on ■ simple capacity ? lam told
that he occalioually exercises the povers
of the governor, (and ex-officio,- t-hofe ot
a legislator and Indian fuperintendant)
holds the office of Secretary ot the Terri
tory ; is a general justice of the peace,T
and was lately adjutant-general of the
army, intothe bargain 111
Q_. 2. Does this heterogeneous blend of
appointments, this encrealing mas» ot em
oluments, comport with the genius of a
free government : or, is it compatible with
the public interests ?—ls it countenanced
by the ordinance of Congress, which forms
the Constitution of that territory ; or by
the constitution of the United States,
which recognizes principles of another
nature
Q. 3. By what rule or law can the ju
rifdietion of a justice of the peace be ex
tended beyond his proper county ? Can a
governor create a power unknown to the
laws ?
Q. 4. Is the writ of Habeas Corpus held
sacred in the North Weltern government ?
Or. may it not be refifled by the Chief Ex
ecutive, as has been the ca/e : or, fujpendea
by the person exercising his pdwers, as hal
been threatened ?
Q_. j. Are the person and property of th<
citizen prote£ted by the laws ? Or, m:?;
not the governor, as commander in chief,
■without troubling the civil authority (a:
has been the cafe) put a citizen under the
care of a file of mulketeers, employ ano
ther file to burn down his house ; and ther
baniih this citizen-prisoner, his wife, ant!
fucking infant, from the territory forever,
on pain of fnffering 12 months imprison
ment in the guard-house, it caught claim
ing again the rights of citizenship, never
* Vide Gazette of the United States of March
30th, lor the copy of a commission attempted by
Mr- Secretary Sargent to be imposed on the judg
es of the county court of common pleas; and intc
■which he had foifted the words "during oui/'/m-
Jure.'" The judges treated this attempt as it de
served. The whole tranfa&ion is there Hated.
Thecommiflion alluded to, being now before the
public has become fair game, and may be conli
dered a masterpiece in the art of imperial compo
iition.—l question whether Francis or Catharine
could Ihew any thing like it.
f By a commiflion from the Governor, Mr Se
cretary Sargent is authorized (or rather commijfi
ttied) to ast as a justice of the peace in every
county throughout the territory ! —I have lately
been informed that this fame Secretary expedts,
on the promise of his good friend the Governor;
another appointment; viz. Territorial Treasurer.
f We have again seen something like this,
in the appointment of Rufus Putnam, Esq.
(junior judge of the territory) to the com
millions of a brigadier in the army, and ot
a commiflioner for Indian affairs. An in*
dividual holding so many offices, mud ne
glect fonie of them, or impose their duties
upon others, perhaps without any of the
emoluments.
forfeited, or the protection of the law, al
ways open to the opprefl'ed ?
CK 6. May not the commanding officer
of the troop*, (especially if he happen to
be governor also) lay claim to the houses
and improvements of the citizens, by a pro
clamation declaring them needful to some
neighbouring garrison ; and thereby put
the inhabitants under the law martial —
thus magically transforming freemen into
Haves, and despoiling them of property, in
defiance of the laws of the land ?
7- Does it lie with the person exer
cising pro-tempore the executive au
thority, to usurp the power and privileges
of the legislature, by a proclamation de
claring law, to be in force long before t!:e
period afligned for wife purposes, by that
legiilature ? Is not this a high mifdemean
uur ? Or is it oniy an effervelcence cVuu
"/frit fort ?
Qj 8. Does the Ohio polfefs the virtues
:)f Lethe, so as to destroy all recollection
>f former rights in those who drink its wa
:er on the wejlern bank ? Or is it the a>?t ot
.rolling from the eaH to the weft bank,
:hat converts a free American into a terri
lorial (lave ? By the way, does not the
:ontlitution of that territory expressly de
cide against every species of slavery ?
j£. 9- How does it happen, that the per
son exercising the governor's authority,
pro tempore, has presumed to prefer a neu
ind different cormniflion to the judges of :
county court, when the former remains ir
force ? And why does he command the
court "to he styled" so and so, when hi:
'upcrior the lAw. which institutes fuel
conre, h .J already ordered by what style
it (hould be known i
j£. io If all or or any of the foregoiin
_)".tfH(.es have actually taken place, unfanc
"ioned as they must be by any legitimate
uilhority, might ue not by a generou:
: >:i :tri:ctiou and a tender regard fur a puif
ani executive, accept them "as farthei
proofs of the goodness of heart"* in hin
ivhofe omnipotent fiat called them intc
sirth ?
In hopes that some correspondent ma\
live the goodness to furnifn answer? to the
Vegoing queftiomy I ftibfcribe myfeli
what I am not. )
A JANIZARY.
New-Jersey, April i, i 793-
* Vide the President's answer to one of Gene
al St* Clairs letters published in the Philadelphi;
prints, while a Committee of Congrels were ir
.he ast of inve ligiting the causes of the failure
it the late expedition under that General.
prom the Petersburg h Inteli.igen
cer, of March 13.
" WHILE revolutions, insurrection;
md armaments, have become the favourite
pursuit of the European world, it beho\e:
the citizens of our happy country, aflielu
aufly to cultivate the various arts of peace
—while kingdoms and states are torn b)
ailion, and rufiling to fpcedy ruin, b>
:heir own intestine broils and diffentions.
let it be our object to avoid the rocks on
which they have gone to wreck.
As a lover of my country, I cannot con
ceal the chagrin 1 cxper'.ence. in refleftinc
cm the banes ul influence, of some of those
public institutions, which we are told na
turally result out of our confederation:
And, I hope to be indulged in making some
animadversions; to which liberty every ci
tizen is entitled. npo:i the principle of that
equal right, wlli h our government en
fiires.
Mv present intention is not to descant
on all the reprehensible measures of this in
fant government —I (hall pass in silence o
ver the Funding Syftein—that firft-born
and favorite child of a parent high in office ;
which, however exceptionable in itfelf,
teems not with fiieh glaring evil, as an in
ifitution which immediately followed —in
whose operations is involved, the interefl
of every individual of this extenlive empire
—I mean the National Bank; this, is a
fubjec , of n» fulall importance to the peo
ple; especially when we take into coniide
ration all its various confeqtiences.
The fntit of this poisonous plant hath
already arrived to a partial maturity—the
taste enables us to form a decision. Our
merchants and planters already begin to
feel, with anguilh, the disadvantage of this
pernicious institution, and experience the
great Madison's prediction in its fulieft
force ; " that it would have an immediate
tendency to banifli gold and silver from
public view." If it flopped here, iricon
vaniency would be the only detriment
which the community sustains ; but it is a
well known fact, that it hath been the
means already of draining the states of a
great portion of their circulating medium,
by enabling the wealthy merchant, who
resides within the sphere of its influence,
and confeqnently hath it in his power to
avail himfelf of the advantages of his credit,
to amaf vast quantities of specie, which
hath actually been (hipped off to India and
elsewhere :—What do we receive in re
turn for this substantial coin, but gewgaws
and fuperfluous articles of luxury ? and
what does it avail the irduftrious citizen,
altho' the capitals of our merchants are in
creased, if the necefl'aries of life are en
hanced in proportion ? Turn the eye to
New-York and Philadelphia, ana the fact
fppuks tor itfelf.
I am sensible that the advocates in favour
of banks, assert, that they are calculated to
promote commercial intercourse, and to
facilitate the collection of the revenue ;
but does the faCt correspond with the
theory ? Do they reflect that the fitutation
of this country is different from any in Eu
rop>e ? In old commercial and manufactu
ring countries, banks may be a ready means
of facilitating the intercourse between mer
chant and merchant; but it does not thence
follow, that in an agricultural country like
this, the fame system is beneficial. Among
trailing people a certain promptitude in all
transactions, is necefiary and practicable ;
but will any one fay, that in a country
where the means of payment are obtained
from the earth but once a year, it i-; poffiblc
to introduce the fame fyflem of punctual
ity. The institution of the national bank
may facilitate the colleflion of the reve
nue ; but while other methods may be de
vised to accomplilh this desirable objeCt, 1
tan never assent to a system for a partial
conveniency only, which affeCts a whole
people in its hurtful confcquences —while
t is left to the judgment (perhaps to the
caprice) of a public officer, or collector, to
;ive a currency to the notes of this or that
particular bank, or branches of a bank, by
refilling the notes of others, as payment —
I cannot but view the whole bufmef a;
calculated to favor too much the project;
of particular speculators. It is too intri
cate, and too partial in its operations foi
the general system of a great country ; ant
the uecejfity which wiil be urged as a plea
for this partiality, i.< of itfelf a fufficiein
evidence that the system is not that exten
lively ufeful institution, which it has beei
heretofore represented.
Does not the oeconomy of this country,
the arra'/gemehts and interefls of its inha
bitants, contradiCt the bare fup'.iofition ot
this system's being eventually productive o!
general good ? 1 hope the citizens ol thi:
part of the ftatc, will discover its abfurdiiy.
before they enter upon the futile attempt
of introducing funilar institutions amonj.
ourselves. I have neither leisure nor in
clination, to euter into the minulia ol the
banking system—l can only regret that ti.t
community in general, are too ealily lee
into a scheme which contemplates lor it:
objeCt the interest, only, ot a certain de
ft ription of men—and those perhaps nol
the most ufeful members of society."
\From the Jame paper, of Rlarch 22—]
"BEING actuated by the fame lauda
ble motives which induced me in my la ft
to contribute my mite toward the promo
tion of the public weal, 1 have again ven
tured to come forward ; under the impref
lion that those observations become mort
and more applicable to the exigency ol
the present times.
In my last I exposed a fuperftcial view
only of those evils with which the inftitu
tion of the national bank is fraught. Is i;
necefiary to observe that this system is cal
culated for the purpose of enabling the
flock-holders to monopolize the whole 01
the importation bulinefs ? T hat to thi:
source maybe traced the present fcarcit\
of money, and the low rate of exchange :
That the contention which exists betweci
the national and state banks, operate to the
ruin'of many industrious individuals in tlu
trading towns ? These things are too ob
vious to eicape the traanlient view of tlu
most common observer.
11 is with 110 small degree of reluCtance;
indeed nothing but the legard which I feel
for the intrrelt of my fellow citizens,
could induce me to probe this fore to the
bottom, and point out where the evil lies.
Obftaprincipiis, is a maxim perhaps, net
less important in state affairs, than in the
healing art. It has become not on]y the
interest, but the duty of every individual
of this society, to check the growing evils
which have already acquired too mini
llrength and vigour.
That a number of the members, of the
most augi'ft affembty in rhe Amer.car
world, are deeply interested in the con
cerns of this nefarious institution, is a faCl
too notorious to be denied. With what
rapid and indecent strides does corruption,
intrigue and venality advance itfelf int<
the very center of this honorable body
We contemplate thefc iniquities in anci
ent and wealthy governments with lef:
horror, because we have been accuftomec
to fee depravity of mind keep equal pacc
with the augmentation of riches, and
grandeur of a people : But the honell
mind recoils at the idea of our furpt-'fling in
vices already, a country whose inhabitants
could boast of their wealth, luxury and
degeneracy of manners, before even the
exifience of a western world was known.
Why fl.ould we conceal the causes.
which conspire to counteract the noble
efforts lately made by a disinterested and
patriotic member of the house, from V ir
ginia, to correCt the abuses which hac
crept into an important department of state?
What, but the undue influence which in
terest gives, could have secured that dif
graccful majority, which appeared in thi
cafe ? We are not surprised to fee the pat
riotic Fox in the minority of the Britifl:
house of Commons, in the latequeftion re
fpeflingw ar or peace. The minifler is fup
pliedabundantly with the means of fecurjng
to himfelf a majority ; but in this infant &
indigent country, it will be a matter of
aftonifliment to the whole world, how
the Secretary of the Treasury could effect
his purpose. Will any one doubt that it
reflects more honour on Mr. Fox, to be
found in the minority of a venal house,
than in the majority. The appfication
here reflects the highest honor, in my opi
nion, on the gentleman alluded to above.
We have occalion to felicitate ourselves
at the idea of being represented by one.
who hath kept himfelf uncoutaminated by
the stock-jobbing trade, in the midlt of
temptation by one who poflefles patriotic
intrepidity enough to oppose himfelf,for the
good of his country, to the united torrent
of intrigue, interest and corruption. And
we can also rejoice, that such worthy ex
ertions met \\ ith fnch worthy support—
although unfuccefsfnl. he yielded with the
virtuous Madison. If the mere aflertion
of a gentleman from the ealtward, brand
ing the iiivejligaticn with the epithets of
unprofitable and frivolous, were to have
weight, the risque of personal degradation
would be incurred, by all those who (hall
lercafter step forth in the glorious attempt
jf defending the injured rights of that
community, \\ho hss reposed confidence
n one of her virtuous Tons.
Can any fubjefl be of so much moment
o a free people, as the proper adminiftra
ion of their government —as the exa£t ex
?cution of its laws ? Can their reprefent
itives devote their time to any purpose so
jrofitable and important, (if they mean
dithfully to serve the interest of the peo
ple) as enquiring into the conduit of their
mblic officers ? Better if it that " the
liarm Ihould be founded" hundreds of
:imes without foundation, than that one
jffender againftthe sacred privileges of the
latiou, (hould escape unpunished. It is to
uch watchful guardians only, that a great
People should depute their concerns, and
Virginia will in fume future day have
;aufe to rejoice in the patriotic ardour of
lerfons. An intelligent and enlightened
people are not to be frightened by founds,
md will not h»ve cause for defpondencv
because the interests of a lew speculators
ire injured.
I ihould be forrytofind that our excel
ent conltitution was falling Ihort of the
?xpe£tptions of its firft framers—this great
tnd elegant fabric confers immortal credit
m its founders. It is to be lamented that
"o many evils have in so (iiort a space of
:ime crept in ; however they are all to be
lttributed to deviations from the firft prin
ciples—l fiiall ever venerate and honor
hefe fathers of our country. It is with
•leafure, I find the rroft celebrated among
hem, have uniformly opposed the intro
luftion ot/rtfrnfi which are neither ne
t'llary, nor authorized by the original
pirit of the new government ; and every
ine mufl retieft, that no specious pretext
:an extenuate the crime of such innovati
on, because the bare precedent, when
jnce admitted, portends in its confequen
:es, nothing less than sapping the very
foundation of that precious liberty, which
\merica earned by the effnlion of her heft
ilood, in the hard fought field. I would
i»t be thought to bear any perlonal ani
nofity toward the officer placed at the
lead of the treasury—his exertions appear
:o have been devoted to thefitppojed inre
efts of this country ; but with all his great
alents. we have reason to apprehend that
ieviations have taken place, and Jyftems
ieen introduced, which are fraught with
impending evils to the nation ; and there
ore, while we can fee and feel their ill ef
"e£ts, let ur. not blindly acquicfce in our
nvu wrong."
In the Housf. of Representatives
or the United States.
Thurjday, the 2%th cf February, 1793.
a motion made and fcconded, that the
house do come to the following RE
SOLUTIONS :
Re/vlved, That it is efiential to the due
idminiltration of tiie government of the
United States, that laws, making fpecific
impropriations of monies, (hould be ftriflly
observed by the administrator of the finan
ces thereof.
hejilied, That the violation of a law,
making appropriations oi monies, is a vio
lation of that article of the constitution of
the United States, which requires, that no
monies {hall be drawn from the Treasury,
but in consequence of appropriations made
by law.
Rejolved, That the Secretary of
Treasury has violated the law patted
4th of August 1790, making appropriations
of certain monies authorized to be borrow
ed by the fame law, in the following par
ticulars, to wit—
1 ft. By applying a certain portion of the
principal borowed, to the payment of the
interest falling due upon that principal,
which was not authorized by that, or any
other law.
2dly. By drawing part of the fame mo
nies into the United States, without the
inftruflions of the President of the United
States.
Rejolved, That the Secretary of the
Treasury has deviated from the inftruftions
given by the Preljdent of the United States,
in executing the authorities for makingJoans, under thi acts of thi 4th and 12th
of Augull, 1790.
Rejohed, That the Secretary of the
Treasury has omitted to discharge an es
sential duty of'his office, in failing to give
Congref. official information, in due lime,
of the monies drawn by him, from f urope,
into tie United States j Which drawing
commenced Decemb r 179b. and continued
till January 1793, and of the causes of ma
king such drafts.
Refohed, That the Secretary of the
Treasury, has, without the inftruclions of
the Preiide'it of the United States, drawn
more rrjonies. borrowed in Holland, into
the United States, than the President of
the United States was authorized to draw,
under the ait of the t2th of Atlgnft 1-90,
which act appropriated two millions of dol
larsonly, wlienborrowed.to thepurchafe of
the public debt t and that be has omitted
to discharge an efienti.il duty oC his office,
in failing to give official information to tile
Commiflioners for purchafmg the public
debt, of the various sums drawn, from
time to time, fuggeited by him to hare been
intended for the purchase of the public
debt.
Rcfohed, That the Secretary of the
iTrealiiry did not consult the pnblic inte
'reft, in nrpociating 3 loan whn the Bank
of the Unit-*! States, and drawing there
from four hundred thousand dollars, at live
per centum per annum, when a greater
sum ot public money was deposited in va
rious bulks, at the refpeitive periods ol
making the refpeftive drafts.
Refolded, That the Secretary of the
Treasury h is been guilty of an indecorum
to this house, in undertaking to j ulge of
its motives in calling tor information,
which was demand.ible of him, from the
conftitotion of iiis oh.ee, and in f.iili'ig ti
give all the neceflnry information within
his knowledge, relatively to the fubjeds o.
reference made to him, of the 19th of Janu
ary 1792, and of the 22;! . November
1792, during the prviVit fciliott.
Rejohed, That a copy of tile foregoing
resolutions be tranfmimd to the President
of the United States'
Ordered, That the firft, second. and IV.
of therefolutions contained in the f.iid mo
tion, do lie on the table.
Ordered, That the third fourth, fifth,
sixth, seventh and eighth resolutions con
tained in the Paid motion, be committed to
a committee of the whole ho life immedi
ately.
The house, accordingly, resolved itfelf in
to the said commirtee, .1 id af.er some time
spent therein, vlr speaker resumed the
chair, and Mr. Muiiienberg reported
that the committee hod, according to or
der, had the said refoiutionS under consi
deration, and made some progress therein.
Rejoined, That this house will, to-mor
row again resolve itfeif into a committee
of the whole house, on thefid resolutions.
FRIDAY, the jlt of March, i,y_,
The house, according to the order oi
the day, again resolved itfelf into a com
mittee of the whole house, on the third
fourth, fifth, sixth. seventh, and eighth re
folutiont contained in the motion of yefter
<lay, refpeitiog tlte official conduit of the
Secretary of the Treasury ; and after some
time spent therein, Mr. Speaker refumec
the chair, and Mr. Muhlenberg reportet
that the committee had, according to or
der, again had the said resolutions undei
consideration, and made a farther pro
gress therein.
Resolved, That this house will, to day
again resolve itfelf into a committee o
the whole house, on the said resolutions.
Seven o'clock P. M. Friday the ill ol
March.
The house, according to the order ol
the day, again resolved itfelf into a com
mittee of the whole house, on the third
fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh and eighfh re
solutions contained in the motionof Tiiurf
day last, refpefting the official conduit o;
the Secretary of the Treasury; and aftei
some time spent therein, Mr. Speaker re
sumed the chair, and Mr. Muhlenberg re
ported, that the committee had, accordin
to order, again had the said resolution:
under consideration, and directed him tc
report to the Hoilfe their difagreemenr tc
the fame.
The House proceeded to consider the
said resolutions and report: whereupon
A motion was made, and the queffioi
being put. That the House do agree with
the Committee of the whole House, ir
their disagreement to the third resolution.
in the words following :
" Resolved, That the Secretary of thf
Treasury has violated the law paired the
fourth of August 1790, making appropria
tions of certain monies authorized to be
borrowed by the fame law, in the follow
ing particulars, to wit—
" 1 It. By applying a certain portion ol
the principal borrowed, to the payment of
the interest falling due upon that princi
pal, which was not authorized by that!, 01
any other law.
" 2tlly. Bv drawing part of the fame
monies into the United States, without the
instructions of the President of the United
States."
It was resolved in the affirmative—Yea;
40 —Nays 12.
The yeas and nays being demandeil by
one fifth of the members present.
Thole who voted in the affirmative, are,
Filher Ames,Robert Barnwell, Egbertßen
loi), Elias Boudinot, Shearjalliub Bourne,
| Benjamin Bourne, Jonathan Dayton, Tho
t mas Fitzfimons, P.lfcridge Gerry, Nicholas
Oilman, Benjamin Goodhue, James Gor
don, Cariftopher Greenup, Samuel Griffin,
William Barry Gruve, Thomas Hartley,
James Hillhoufe, William Hindman, Phi
iip Key, Aaron Kitchell, John Lawrence,
*\mafa Learned, Richard Bland Lee.
George Leonard, Samuel Livermore, Fre
derick Augnltus Muhlenberg, William
Vans Murray, Nathaniel Niles, Theodore
Sedgwick, Jeremi b Smith, Israel Smith,
William Smith, John Steele, Samuel Sier
ret, Jonathan Sturp.es, George Thatcher,
Thomas Tuder Tucker, Artemas Ward,
Williamfon and Francis Willis.
Those whb voted in the negative, are,
John Baptilt Alhe, Abraham Baldwin, Wil
liam Findley, William B. Giles, Andrew
Gregg, Nathaniel Maco", James Madison.
John Francis Mercer, Aitdrew Moore.
Alexander D. Orr, John Page, and Jolial:
Parker.
[The remainder in our next. ]
PHILADEI.P H I A.
ApRI!, 3.
The President of iie United States, lcfi
this city on the 26th uitimo- —tc
visit his at Mdunt Vernon in Virgi
nia.—We are inr• rmed th:u be took <
northern ronte, for the pnrpofe of viewing
the progre'fs of the canal , wh;-h have
been lately undertaken in this state, tc
unite the waters of Delaware, Sthuylki.
and Sufquehaiyna. The President tvill re
turn in the course of the month of Maj
next.
The following is a complete return oi
Representative;: in Congrefsfrom the <tat«
ofN. *ji>amed 111 the numerical or*
der of tend'OricTs—Col. Joseph M'Dow
ell. Gen. Matthew Lock, C •!. Jofepf
Wir.ftop. Gen. Alexander Mebane, Na
thaniel Macon, Ffq.—Col. James Gillef
pie, William Barry Grove Y Xq. Willian
j hnfton Dawfon FXq. —Col. 1 honia:
Blount, Col. Benjamin Williams.
The following gentlemen are electec
Representatives in Congress from the
[late of Virginia—James Madison, W illian
Biles, Samuel Griffin, Joiiah Paiker,
fo'm rage, Andrew Moore, Abraham Ven
able, Richard B Lee, Robert Rutherford,
Carter B Harrifoa, John Nicholas, Antho
ny New, John Heath. George Hancock.
Francis Walter.' FraTich Preston. Matthew
Clay. There are two other diftritts ii
Virginia from which no returns are yet
received.
By a letter from Jamaica, addrefTed tc
the pi inter of the v ew-York Daily Ga
zette, it appears that a molt cruel murder
took place on board the (hip Walp (ol
Briltol) a d v or two before iier arrival at
Morltego Hay fVom the coast of Africa, ll
appears there was n combination on board
rncouraged by the captain, Robert Jones,
sgainlt the unfortunate fufterer, Thomas
Hedges, doctor of the iTiip, which ended in
Forcing him .verboard after having beater
him with hand spikes, &c. put out one his
?yes, and used him otherw.fe in a molt in
human manner.—Whit is remarkable,
al'.ho' a n amber of the cre.v were dis
charged at Montego Bay, not a single item
of the murder tranfpited till after the (hip
had cle ired out and failed. The whole
was then discovered and sworn to by one
of the crew, in coiifeqnence of which a
light (loop was dispatched after the (hip, as
the captain had given out that it was hie
intention to touch at the Grand Gaymanas
on hispadage home to Briltol—N. B. Ihe
(hip arrived at Montego Bay the aoth oi
January and failed the 23d of February.
Extract of a letter from the weflvjnrd.
" I know not whether the appearance
of reform in England and Scotla nd are to
be conlidered as favourable to liberty- I
(hould have liked better to find Mr. Pitt
continue in the pride of his power tili the
people themselves burst their (hackles. I
tear if the reform isto come from govern
ment it will be like the amendment: ot the
federal conllitution—a tub to the whale.
It may be otherwise, and will doiibtlefs be
a more peacable way, but it is itill build
ing 011 a bad foundation.
"I like the fpiritfrom wjiich the present
fafhionable address of citizen proceeds:
but, like anew cut in cloaths.l cannot help
thinking there is a little affectation in it-
This feeling a little time will remove, ef
peciallyas the appellation is of an endearing
nature —I (hould like better to have the
name only. As you know fafhions take
some time to arrive here from the metro
polis, I mult take a little time to reconcile
myfelf to it; and get others here to keep
mein countenance." For this once you
will therefore excuse me, and not think
me an aristocrat if on the outside I retain
the former appellation-
Engiiih advices as late as the 10th ofFe
bruary, mention nothing of a declaration
of war, either 011 the part of the French or
England.
The-fchoener President I ?ft St. Eufta
tius on the 12th ult. and Martinique the
10th. The Captain informs, that intelli
gence had reached those iQands of the exe
cution of the unfortunate Louis; but no
thing further was known as to the fate of
his family. War, it was expedtcd, would
soon break out, but no accounts of its oe
ingactuallydeclared had been received.
The following particulars relative to the
death of Louis XK Ith are from a St. Eu-
Jlatius paper of March Bth.
On Sunday night he visited his family for
the last time, and after pending some time
with therp lie returned to his own apart
ment and supped as usual ; he slept toler
ably well that night, and arose about 7
o'clock on Monday morning, when after
fiime time spent in private devotion with
his confefTor, he informed the officer he
was ready ; the carriage being sent for,
he. with his confcfihr and the officer ap
pointed to attend him. went in, and pro
ceeded to the place of execution, guarded
by a p;:rty of the {National Guards ? when
tht-y arrived there he ascended the fcaffold
with great firmnefs ; asfoorias he got up
the executioner cut off his hair, at which
lie (hewed feme emotion, but soon recov
ering himlelf he advanced to the front of
the fcaffold where he addrtfled the popu
lace in tne following manner:
FRENCHMAN,
I die innocent ; it i? from the fcr (Fold in
the prefefite of Almighty God I tell you so.
i forgive n.y enemies and hope
Fere aconfufed cry of Grace Grace
was heard from the people around the
fcaffold j on which he was flopped and
hurried to the block, where his head wat
fevered from hi; body atone fhoUe ; the
executioner carried it twice round the
fcaft'old, and then, with the body, it was
thrown into a bafliet and conveyed to
Magdalen where a grave was prepared
with some quick lime in it.
The blood which flowed from Louis
XVI was gathered up, by some in paper,
and by others in white handkerchiefs, and
this was done by persons who had Hot the
air of attaching a political fuperftftinn to
it—two young lien of good appearance
were particularly noticed—one of them
who was a foreigner and had the appear
ance of an Engliflimrn. ga\e 15 livres to
a child and requeued it to steep a very
handsome white handkcrchiefin the tracks
of blood that remained—the other yonng
man seemed to have much aX heart the ob
taining the ribband which tied the queue,
and some of the hair of Louis, for which
he paid a Lsuis d'Or.
The national convention confifls of 74c
members, 737 of whom were present at
the last debate refpefling theking, and up
on its being put to the vote whether he
(liould fuffer death, fix hundred and nine
ty three gave their voices in the affirma
tive ; and one of this number was Phillipe
Egalite, the ci-devant Duke of Orleans,
and cousin germanof the King.
The King made three requests to the
National Convention after his condemna
tion namely, that he should be allowed a
light of his family for the purpose of tak
ing a fiual adieu ; that he should be buri
ed in the Cathedral church of Sens, by the
lide of his fathers ; and a respite of hi;
fentertce for three days, in order to pre
pare himfelf for eternity—The firft was
granted—the two last were rejected.
Extract of a letter from Columbia, Wes
tern Territory, to a gentleman in this
city.
"As young as this place is. there is a
remarkable thirst and taste for learning ir
it. We have already an Academy here,
under the joint care of two gentlemen oi
abilities, in which the English, Latin, and
Greek language, the Mathematics, and
various branches of the arts and sciences
ire taught. Perhaps you will think it in
credible:, when I allure you that in this
academy, at the afcirefald different bran
ches 01 learning, there are already sixty
[cholars. There is another Latin and
Greek school at Cincinnati, fix miles be
low this.—Thus d-»es the wilderueft begin
to blofi'om as arose."
Extract of\a letter from the Wejiern Ter
ritory dated Feb. 7, 1793. to a gentleman
in this city.
" I have taken the liberty to enclose
yoti the copy of" a commiflion from the ho
norable Winthrop Sargent, Secretary of the
territory of the United States, northwefl
of the river Ohio, now verted witti all the
powers of the Governor, to the persons
therein named, with their resignations.—
As it is a matter nearly connected with
the liberty of the citizens of the United
States, I should be glad you would pro
cure them a place in one of the public pa
pers."
By the honorable Winthrop Sargent, Se
cretary in and for the territory of the
United States north weft of the rivei
Ohio, and now vested with all the pow
ers of the governor and commander in
chief thereof.
/Territorials. To allperjor: xvho (lialljee
V Seal. ) thejeprefents, Greeting:
KNOW YE, That we have author
ized and empowered William Goforth,
William Wells, William M'Millin, John
S. Gano, and Aaron Cadwell, Esquires,
judges of the county court of common
pleas, for<he county of Hamilton, during
our pleasure : and do by these prcfents
authorize and empower tlie said William
Goforth, William Wells, William M'Mil
lin, John S. Gano, and Aaron Cadwell, or
a majority of them, to hold and keep a
court of record in the said county, to be
(lyled the county court of commoii pleas—
and therein to hold pleas of allizes, fieri
facias, replevins, and hear and determine
all manner of pleas, ailions, fuitsand cau
ses of a civil nature, real, personal and
mixed, according to the conftituticn and
laws of the territory.
IN testimony whereof we have caused
our public seal to be hereunto affix
ed. Witness, Wiuthrop Sargent, E(<\.
Secretary, representing the governor
and commander in chief.
Dated at Cincinnati, the sth of Februa
ry, Anno Domini one thousand seven
hundred and ninety three, and of the
independence of the United States of
America the seventeenth.
{Signed) WINTHROP SARGENT.
Territdry of the United States -j
northweO of the river Ohio, ( Cincinnati
Hamilton county. 5 1793
To the honorable Winthrop Sargent, Esq.
firft executive officer of the aforel'aid
territory.
SIR,
IT is known to your honor that in the
year one_ thousand seven hundred and
eighty nine, his excellency Arthur St.
Clair, was pleased to honor lis with a
commiilion lor holding a court of common
pleas ill the county alorefaid—w hich com
mifiion ue chose to accept, and have ac
ted under the fame from that time to the
present moment —during which time we
are riot fenlible of any lack Whereby it
became forfeited, or that It expired.
We are again honoured with your com
mission for holding the fame court; in
which the names of John S.Gano, and Aa
ron Cadwell, Efqrs. are included.
Welhouldbe exceedingly well fuitec!
in their appointment, would they accept,
could it be done on principles compatible
with the general interest of the communi
ty-
We, 011 our part, are not fond of inno
vations, and are averse to multiplying
oaths.—Were we to ast under the late
commission, in concert with the above na
med gentlemen, wemuft submit to a re
petition of the oath of allegiance and or
oflice, without any apparent neceflity.
But for a moment admitting it was ne
cellary that we fiionld be re-appointed to
that otficb, we could not (loop to the in
dignity of holding offices, the tenor of
which is during pleasure. We could not
so far betray the rights of our fellow citi
zens, as to set a precedent which might
fubjeft the important trufl of judges of the
common pleas to the whim or capiice of
any one individual.
We have not yet forgotten, that this
was matter of complaint against the ad
miniltration of the Colonial government,
at the commencement of the late glorious
contefl with G. Britain.
In the articles of independence, ratified
on the memorable 4th of July, 1776, we
find the following clause inferred—" He
hao mode judges dependent on his will
alone," foi the tenure of their offices and
the amount and payment of their salaries.
That judges Ihotild beindependent of the
executive, is expressly guarded by the
confutation of the general government,
and is a right we never can relinquish.
In acquielcence with the aforrfaid gentle
men, we here fend you cnclofed, that
commifiion which your honour has been
pleased to offer to theirand our acceplance;
we conlider ourselves bound by and qua
lified to ast under the former, and Jhalt
demean ourftlves accordingly.
Sir, with great regard
yourmoft obedient, antt
very humble fervauts,
WILLIAM GOFORTH.
WILLIAM WELLS.
WILLIAM M'MILLIN.
John S. Gano and Aaron Cadwell, Esq.
made similar resignations at the fame timt.'
PRICE OF STOCKS.
Six Per Cents 18/S
Three Per Cents 10/6
Defeired u
Bank of the United States 36 pr. c.
B. N. America 12 do.
■ 1 • ■
WAS LOST,
YESTERDAY on the York road, betwixt
Philadelphia and the Crooked-Billet, a
BOND, from Isaac Lewis, to thi fubferiber, for
the sum of two hundred pounds, payable the firft
of April 1793* —Any person finding the fame,
and delivering it to John Moore, Esq. Jenkin
t"vvn, William M'Calla, Abingdon, Thomas
Hough, at the Croeked-Billet, or to the fubferii
ber, fliall be handf;Riely rewarded.
JOSEPH HART.
April », 1793. 3 1 2*#Mr. BRrSOT's Sfecch In the Xetwal
Affcmb'y of France, on Auguf. 8, 1792
in /uppert of the pccu/aliofi of M de La
Fay ate.
[from t!>e foilou ingfpeech the render will
be enabled to take a conipreheiifive view
of the grounds awl reasons tor the nati
onal proft ription of this officer. ]
famous Lord Man field fa id to
jl. the jury, w!io fat up u the trial te
twten the i)uke of Cumberland, the king's
brother, and Lord Grofvenor: " Gentle
man, suppose in the present cafe that you
have to judge between A. an 1 B ; forget
<he prince; fee <ji,ly the individual and
(lie fatt."
I fh II adilrcfs vnu, gentlemen, ir. the
fame fliic. The General whom you have
•° judge occupies an eminent poll, enjoys
a high reputation, ha 3 many friends ; 011
the other hand, his enemies are numerous;
violent accufafions are preferred ajrainft
him. You aie the representatives of the
people, and on the present occalion, a jury
of accusation, and confcquently to
b • impartial. Hatred and favour ought
alike to be Grangers to ycur breads. Hate
the crime, but forget the man : hate the
crime, punish the man ; but firft take care
to verify the crime with the molt scru
pulous exaitnefs. This is the duty of
every one, and I am going to fulfill mine
religion fly. Two motives prompt me to
this : the remembrance of a f nrner friend
flap. and the dangers of my country. A
mongst all the misfortunes attending on re
volutions, there cannot be a great.r than
that of being obliged to condemn an old
friend. I experience it to-day. I have
seen Mr. La Fayette attached to the molt
rigid principles : Icheriftji d him then ; I
hoped he would display all his efforts in
their defence : a thousand times have I
conjured him to do it! An infernal coali
tion has poisoned his mind, and robbed
him cf his principles, and with them his
glory. I have endeavoure.', with o'.het
ftier.da, to fare him from their machina
tions ; he has rejected all my counsels, and
I renounce his friendfhio : he is no longei
any thing to me.—The inflexibility I re
'■omm n j to you, and which ought to be
the charafteriftic of a jury of accusation, 3
fh-11 myfelf observe. Is it in the moment
when the enemy is upon oar frontiers,
when our country is in danger, that we
cuglt, that we can, give way to trifjin®
paflions, to fpitefnl retaliations ? IXfhor.oi
to the wretch who fees nothing in this
cause but an enemy to punish, hut a party
to ridicule 1 to those who, substituting de
clamation to argument, and panegyric tc
the fair and honelt means of juflification,
would poflefs you with their felfifh princi
ples, when the queltion before you, is al
once to revenge and to save the conlli
tation 1
How desirable would it be, if we coulc
defer ourdomeftic quarrels 'till ourforeigr
enemies were defeated'! But the fatal let
ter of the 16th of June has been the apple
of discord thrown into this assembly ; il
has been the fig Hal of an inteltine war.
which it will be difficult to cxtinguifh, be
cause it has awakened animoftties that <
true patrio'ifm had laid afieep. The an
thors, the councilors of th s letter, theft
are t' e authors of our diflentions, of which
the effects are not to be calculated. Theft
are the real enemies of Mr La Fayette as
well as of the Nation 1 <\fTembly ; and yet
these are they who now demand a judg
ment, snd with an arioga.tce too against
which generofny revolts, but which can
not influence the dictates of justice.—Yes,
gentlemen, we ought to judge, but with
out pafiion ; we have nothing to eonfult
hut the facts and the law.
What is the crime of Mr. La Fayette :
I shall Hot accuse him of being in concert
with the Aultriar.s : 1 cannot, however,
deny myfelf one reflettion. [fa General
had secretly planned the disgrace of the
French-armies & thefuccefs of the Auflri
<ii;s, what line of conduit would he have
pursued ? H? would have taken good care
not to enter Brabant,-)- though it offereJ
ivery circumft. nee proper to facilitate an
invaiion, ;vnd though it was guarded but by
,-t handful of troops ; he would have at
tempted nothing, but have staid in his in
trenchments ; he would, at molt, have ex
tended h:s operations to a few pitiful ilcir
mifhes, antJ would have placcd a camp in
1 is front, undefended, and an easy prey to
the envmy ; he world have continued this
camp in spite of the remonflrances of an
1 j t« Aujhlivt Netherlands,
experienced Genera! ; he would have fuf
fered liis advanced-guard to engage ; he
v. ouIJ then have exaggerated tic d.cngtl
of the enemy, though far iuf.viorto that
of his,own ; lie would have inveighed a
gainrt tl-.e Bnbaeconr, becau'e tliey were
fucli fools rs not to revolt telore they had
any hcp-.sof protection. He would have
kcon;!ed hut feebly, the generals his col
leagues ; he would have comfelled them
to abandon the offenfive fjftem, and wi;h
it their conquefls ; he would have ltd l is
troops a ti(clefs dance expressly to fatigue
them, and to expefe our frontiers the while
to the ravages cf the enemy. He would
have quitted his army in the hour of dan
ger under the molt frivolous pretences ; he
would have gone into cantonments at the
moment when he ought to prefeni to the
enemy a formidable camp ; in a word, he
would have employed in camp-manoeuvres,
ufelcfs marches, intrigues and peti ions
the precautious part of the campaign, in
order to give the reinforce men'.s of the
enemy time to arrive—This, gentlemen,
would have been the conduct of a g neial,
if l is only aim had been to favoir the
Audrians. Compate then this picture
with the brilliant exploits of Mr. La Fay
ette, before which Mr. Bureaux Pufy prc
! nds to prodrate himfclf; for he :s not
"ucb a novice as to be an idolater in good
earned. Ido not affii m that the General
was in concert v.i:h the Audrians, for, it
seems, nothing (liort of written proof will
Fi.ffice, an;. I :,ave none. Cut you who re
quire these proofs, confefs, at lead, that the
friend of the Audrians could not have
sited otli rwife. Confifs that here lias
been the molt profound incapacity or the
blacked peifidy.
In the year 1756, a court martial de
clared that Admiral Byng had negledted
his duty, ar.d in consequence of that decla
ration he was sentenced to death, accor
ding to the Englith militai-y code, which
punishes with death the General who f..al!
negk£t his duty, whether it be by neg i
jenrc, cowardice, orperfidy. Thislaw may
perhaps be too rigorous for the common
dty cf men ; Washington, however,
would not have refufed to be judged by
r ; and if it were to decide the f>.te of his
lifctph he would soon be no more. But,
jentlemen, it is not under this point of
riew that I (hall examine the ir.ifdemean
irs of Mr. La Fayett#; they are not mi
itary faults that I accuse of, but politi al
:vimes, wicked attempts agiinfl. our con
stitution and our liberty.
I accuse him of having made an ill use
rfh s authority, arid of the force* the na
:ion had committed to his charge; of ha
ving exposed the fafety of the (late, anu of
in lating the conditution
Certainly 110 one will fay that these
things are not crimes ; for besides the ar
:icles of the constitution on this fubjedt,
if you open ihe penal code, part I. fe£t 2.
you will there read, " Every confpiration
' to hinder, by force, the deliberations of
' the legislative authorities, shall be pun
died with death."
Another : " Every confp'racy tending
" to trouble the public tranquility, by a
• civil war, in arming the citizens against
:i one another, or againd any of the legal
' authorities, lhall be punidied with
' death."
Again : " Every public officer who by
" the abuse of his authority, Hiall, under
' any pretence whatever, engage the ct
' tizens to disobey any legal authority,
' fliall be punilhed with fix yeais impri
" fonmerit.
Now, gentlemen, you will find the
jreated part of those crimes in the let
ers and proceedings of Mr. 'a Fayette.—
fUI the fadtshave a tendency to the fame
:nd. Mr. la Fayette was determined
et it cost what it would, to he the Mo
'.erator of France. This is his favorite
jaffion, here we find the key to all his
:ondu£t ; and Mr. Torr.e lias very inge
lioufly applied it to the recent ; 5 well as
o the former events in which the gene
al has been a cons, leuous character.—
' his explains the hidory of the sth and
s>h of October, and his persecution cf
he Orleanic faction, to which he alone
bad given exidence : hi 3 resignation on
the affair of the famous loth of .April
and his coalition with men whom he de
telted : his double dealing upon the king's
escape to Vnrcnr.es, and his appearance
amongd the Jacobins,* whom he has
since persecuted. If at p.efent, gentle
men, Mr. la Fayette wiflies their deitruc
* So called, becavfe the/ met atfirj} in
a Dvminicni conveirt at Paris; thrDon.i-
Hie'ani bii"£ cJJo cat lid Jacobin-,
tior, it is r.ot becatife the Jacobir.s really
appear Criminal in his eyes, but bi caufc
the.r bundled rhoufan j lights expefe too
clearly li s Ira'tcrcus proj.'fls ; but be
cause they will rot ficond li s views for
the Diliatorfhip. If he anils his camp, it
is because lie world rather command at
Paris than watch the motior s of the Auf
trians, who besides do r.ot stem to be
very seriously at war with him. If l:e
p.fFi.dls so tinier a companion for the
king, and fnch a violent in-Jignati ;n at
the events of the 2< th of June, it is not
because he wps so foandaiizcd at the red
cap or so p; ffionattly f.md of kings-, but
to further his difi;,ns, it was r.cce'h.ry he
fi-,ould l.ave the air of bciig the pro eCtor
of the king, and have a pretext lor draw
ing his army towards the capital, that he
might there a£t the part of a Di£l tor.
But, fay they, you cannot condemn
without a positive .'aw ; and there ex
ids no law that condemns a man far cn
deavourir.g to become the or the
moderator of France. Is a pcfi' ive law
then necelTa:v to p'.ir.ifli pirriciJe ! and
can there be parricide ot a blacker dye
than that of attempting to ciuth our li
btrty for ever by a dldlato.' ! but, allow
ing thi 1..w not to exifl, at lead it will
be tranted me that it is criminal, ill, To
expufc the fa'fety of the flute ; 2Jly, To
violate the conllitution ; 3Jly, To at
tempt, by menaies, to cramp the delibe
rations of the legifiative body ; 4tbly, To
try tc debase the kgiflature ; s chly, To
endeavour to excite a civil wa .
Well then ! Mr. la Fayette has com
mittcd all these crimes- Much has alrea
dy been developed, and I Ilia 1 not repeat
what has been fufiiciently dwelt upo;;. I
fiiall particularly apply r.iyfvlf to the an
swering cf Mr. Dumolard, and in so doing
I /hall lookup„n myftlfas having anfivcred
the otlur cratorsou thai fide of the queili
on. I throw inlircly af;de (and without
doubt the Alfembly will thank me for it)
that f art of the pleading-x-of Mr. Diimo
lard, in which he eternally fubllitutcs to
fa£ts, which he has not, thread-bare decla
mation foreign to the discussion. I fliall
take no uotiee of his diflcrtatior.s 011 the
people, which he refpefls in the mass, be
:aufe that mass is ra where. I dia l take no
notice of the a-t use he h s so l.'.e ally be
[lowed 011 the fadtious, who are wicked
:n;ugh to regard Mr. La Fayet.e as the
chief of a fa£lion, when lie boalls of being
the organ of the bcmjlpet.p'e f and of lus
army; on the journa'iils whom he flanders
in answering to their calumny. 1 (hall
lake 110 notice of his indignation (which
every body shares) at the parallel between
Casfar and Mr. La Fayette; of his in
credulity (which every one does not
[hare with the civil tiji) upon the Austrian
committee J 011 his profound theory on
the libels which offend him in supposing
him to be a man of much profefiional prac
lice; or of his panegyric on Mr. La Fa
yette, which speaks him as little acquain
ted with the American revolution as with
that of Rome; for Casfar has no where
hocjlcd of a Jcratch, nor were the whole cf
his exploits a prudent retreat. But i (hall
enter at oace into the fads, and the ob
jedlions.
Mr. Dumolard denies that General La
Fayette exposed the (afety of the Hate
in quitting his army ; but gtn'.lemcn
when this army was in the face of the en
emy, wh .n it was in continual expectation
of an attack, when every ii.ftant might
ffer the general an opportunity of profit
ing by the errors of the Auftrians, w hen
Marlbal Luckner was in the fame fitua
;ion, when by aililting him in the taking
□f two or three more towi.s the iflfuirec
tion in Brabant might have been comple
ted : furelv to abandon the amy at a
lime like this was a horrid tieafon. Will
Mr La Fayette fay there was nothing to
fear ? That maybe, geriiieiiv. n, if the war
were not in ea ne/t, but it it wtre, was
there nothing to hope for, nothing to be
attempted against the /.tißrians ? Wai.
not eve y day, every moment precious,
before the Auilrians were reinforced i
For, gentlemen, the tw en.y live thor.fsnd
Auilrians of Maulde, whom Mr. Buie-uix
Pufy has told you of, may be very conve
nient for explaining this inaction ; but it
wou dbe very difficult to prcve their ex
igence.
X-3!" Dumclard was a lawyer.
t The t(rm ujutdly tt.ade i.Je if at pre
lent in France when o>.e vjould jay, the
mcberate.
[Te te Cor.ti»: e.-i.]
Juft'con etn ff.ivl. fro; rJt'.fcr.rj.h. ardU
be Sold by Jc:.n .Vi'CvLi.ccH, No. i. ,
i\.■ ith 1 t'eird-i:rti t
MODERN CHIVALRY:
CON < A xN'iNG 1 lit
AJ:~ -t. rcj </ Caj-t. j. I AS. AAC 0,
A N ))
Teacve O'Regan hi; ftrvan;.
VOL HI.
Ev H. H. BK/C.KrNRIDCE, rrq,
J. X'Ct'LI.OCH Has aljo f»Y Seie.
Spectator, S vols.
Go dimito* Kiilp>ry of animated ?
VP'S.
>rf' c —'-nr-i irf, 4 vol--.
Smith's Wealth ct Naiiont, 3 vols*
Moore's T'uyHs, 2 vols.
B'vdone'* T • r, Sicily and Mi'ta.
Montague's I 'av'" 1 ?.
Rii-hrj As V/omc::, by M-ry Woo! Hict aft*
Seneca's Morals.
Junius* L-'tfrs.
Knox's E.Tays. 2 vols.
P A *er P : pda«-, 2 vols.
C tiler's r*»a»fc of i'hjfiC; 3 vcta.
Harr;p hriiV \Yo< Its.
Zimm.-rtnan on Solitude
Preceptor, ?. vol?,
Ev«*'»na. ? vols*
Eik : ne's iV'edt Sennor.s. f
A "der#on*s S-rmons 011 Faith.
The Child's lofruflrr; bci.iga £'e|<ing Borlt
or a new Plan : Rv a he. i•> Puiladeh.hia.
The Mncfclr*-Bird : a Coile&ivij oi Sjr. c s ; 3,
number rf which are set to Mafic.
The American Lttfer Wrirer.
Fairy Tales, fefr.
IN T H F. P R E S S,
A Collection of Church Mu.'ic and Anthems ;
to coniain ?co Otla ve •
T H:.ve claims to about two hundred a:id
fifty thoufana acres of LAND in the ftatc of
Kentucky, tn v•tf r■ si«- p r'< of that c< untr\,
1 >me of which I l*n>>w to be equal to anv ; a' I
ol which I am inclined to dilp: ie of, either b*
ent"*r fa'e, or hy admitting one, or two partners,
to whom the agency on the whole will be com
mitted.
One fourth of the fn'rift wrM be required io
hand, either in cath, merchandise, or such assets
as may be converr-d'o a6l We ast, the res/doe
may be apportioned in convenient inftalmeutr.
The pu; eh ifcr? to give feturity, on the land,
or otherways,as fcirs them.
Knowing that there is a orejudir* aiiatnft the
title* of land in that which is more general
th in just, lam w tt- stipulate in tie .Ct 11 •
tradi, (hat a difc!»unr, or drdu&ion, shall be
made, where any land may be loft, by reaion of a
defective ritl •.
Anv perf« n inclinir» 'n fiich * purchjfe, is re-
to write to inc by poO, in anlwer to
wh»m, more particular will !•? ,; ; ven.
f EN R T BANK
Rirhmord Marcb 20, 1703. law if.
N Philabelph !A, J.irnnry 12, 1793.
MATHEW CAREY
Rt/]>eclfiilly i'.)t'o. - ;ns the Citizens ot' the
I :nti!cl States, that tl. ■ MapsforluS
ii tended edition oi"
Guthrie's Geography
I M fROV'Ei),
Are now en^ravir^ —in J as Toon a a fuffie'ent
number of them art to ft cure a regular
during the publication,which w ll' proba -
bly b t early r.ext Spring, l\\t work ai J J be put
to pref^.
He returns his ac to the very
relpitfab e number of fublcribers, who
forward thus carlv to p ition/ze this a. d uous un
d.'ftaking. He assure* them and the puhjic in
general, that ihall be itj
the execuiior of tlie work.
Terms 'f the Wirt t
I. IT /hall be pub!i/h- lin 4S weekly num
bers, each containing three Cieett., or twenty four
i f letter urefs, in printed vyith new
types on fine paper.
11. In the course of the work will be delivfrf.i
abut thirty large maps, of the lame lize'as those
in the European e .it'-oiiS; \:z. must 01 t-h«*m lhrec
maos 00 post paper.
Befuks the m7*c it *b' T r '''(h Fd:r'o,*i
this ivcr/t, $vbl C+ntuin nine or ten American States
Jil. Tr>e price of each ntinjfn w:il oe a eu.ir
ter dollar, to be piid on deuverj,
K?* No aaitancs t^eqabid.
IV. Su'ofcribers wh » d:fapproveof the work,
on the publication of the three h: (l narnbei s, are
to be ai liuerty to re'u;n ihem, ano fiiail hive
their mnnev re.'aid.
V. The fufcllcv ber?.' n >mcs shall be prefix-d is
patrons ot he undfrtak: r»^.
* # * Subfcri 'tiOn?; received in Philadelphia hv
tlie intended-publilher ; in New-York, by all the
boc Jcfillers j i-o New-Haven, by I\l .Be : lr\
Hartford, by Mr. Patten'; in by Mii^ 7
Thomas and Andre v., and hv I-.'r. V/eft ;
Baltirnore, b) Mr. R!cf ; i 1 Richmond, bs Lr,
!. Carey ; In n, by Mr, V/ P. Vour>i(,
and bv fund y other pei foku th. uj;hout th? Uni
ted Stars. us. l'a.w.
A FEW CO VIES OF THE
TR A NSACTIONS
Of the Society i lututed. in the Slate of
Nnjrx.or*. fr i.t 1 rim: ti h tf
AGIIIGULTUS K,. ARTS, m.d MANU
FA.CT L'RI'.S,
May; te had rt this Ofue.
[Price li ALF <i jaLLAH.] '
Jan. 5.
PRINTED BY
C H I L D S and S W A I N E,
A r THKIJtCTJ-jCli N >. 'i. -Q, II I H•5 1f 1 i'. ,
>* a r••-i- rr * c *'i,
r j t ."Dp* ? a «