By P.FRENEAU: (at No. Street) Pubiijhcd Wednesdays Saturdays, [Th RIE Dollar, pir annum.]
Numb. 95 of Vol. ll.] WEDNESDAY\ September 25, 1793.
I'rum the Richmond and Manchester
Advertiser of September 12.
tT is not unfrequent to ohfrrve of late in
the ministerial, 01 court papers, all tlie
power? of rlietoric and ridicule exerted, to
fupprefa every free comment upon govern
mental nieafures & every scrutiny into the
official conduct of its individual adinrnlftra
tora; to cffe£t this nbj"tl a new species of
threats against some printers, have not
been withheld. The free difcuflion of these
fubjeftscan be objectionable or flangerous,
but upon one principle (to wit) an adm\fiion
of the inability of the great majority of the
people to form tempcrare and right conclu
sions from such difeufliofls. 1 his adminu'ii
would be insulting to tile people. 1: would
be improper in itfelf, because it is uniform
ly contradiQed by the fact. It is pointedly
repugnant to the fundamental principle ol
our government. The ability of the.peo
ple to govern themfelve<, is the ground
work of our constitution, every informaii
on furnilhed refpeSting their political right!
and governmental proceedings, is an addi
tion to their intelligence, a:.d of ccurle to
the means of judging rightly. The mo
tives inducing this gross attack upon the
liberty of the press, by a party, cannot be
mistaken, they spring from a confcioulnefs
of the unnatural state of internal affairs,
produced by the artifice & partiality of ad
ministration, from their fears, that the peo
ple will become informed, ai'd the conse
quent effe£t of the information will be.the
correction of ad mini ft r a lion, by the irre
fiftible pronunciation of the public will.
The difcuflions refpedting the late pro
clamation of neutrality, havo been the mod
criminated and reviled. The affeitioiu
of the people for the perjan of the Presi
dent, and their virtuoys gratitncie f'»r his
former Jerv'ccs have been courted in the
irioF insinuating manner, lo proneutice a
condemnation against thrift who have dared
to fp.*alt their opinions relpecting cnc of hi:
official acts. That the President's feelings
should have sustained an injury from the pun
gency of these discussions, is to be regretted;
every good man will conctir in rendering
tribute to his patriotism and good intenti
on ; but tt is thought, a compensation i;
afforded to the public for this dircumftancc
in the good effe&s attributable in some mea
sure to these difcuflions. The great ma
jority of the people upon this, as opor
rnoft other fubjetts, which are fairlj
brought before them, feein to have decidec
with the most temperate propriety, anc
this decision has furnifhed ajnlt condem
nation of the party who would interrupt
the free course of political inreftigations.
If the newspapers may be looked at the
mirror reflecting truly the public miild, ii
would present an opinion very generally
concurring upon this delicately interesting
fubjett The public mind from the ex
treme! of N. Hamplhlre, to the extremes
of Georgia, seem to have fettled upon these
two primary points. Firft,ths»t there ought to
be an honourable compliance with the treaty
between the United Aates and France —
2d, That a ftri£t neutrality towards the
powers at war, ought to be observed. Ho
nor, duty, intertf, gratitude, would de
mind the firft measure, the enchanting ad
vantpges of peace would require the latter.
If acting upon these two principles, fnoulc
involve 110 incompatibility of condtift, the
great majority of the people would proba
bly be found to unite in the opinions of it!
propriety. There would still be found,
however, a contemptible Britlfh factien.
perhaps with our financial officer at theii
head, who would willingly disavow a com
pliance with the treaty, and attempt s
more intimate connexion with Britain.—
This policy is dittated by two motives, tht
one, a preference for the Britifli govern,
ment ,and a latent hope, that ours may ul
timately be run into a similar mould ; thj
other, the dependence of the darling fund
ing system upon a commercial conpeftioi
with Brirain, and the apprehension, thai
an interruption of our Britifli commerce
would interrupt the punflual payments ol
the interest upon the funded debt.
The original difference of opinion re
fpefting the Proclamation, seems rather tc
l:ave referred, to the contlruttive oijelt ol
it, than the mere ad of ifiuing it. Its op
pofers have acted under the conftru£tive
idea, that it was intended to elude an ho
norable compliance .with our treaty with
France; its favorites have been of opinion,
that it was intended as a mere declaration
•f the existing state of the u?tion, and not
intended to vary or change its pre ex'tfting
lignature.
Ii the former were its object, the Pro
clamation would be every where justly
condemned. li'tlie latter were its otijeit,
its rauli inveterate enemies mult admit, it
would have been at least harmlef?. The
latter having been explained by subsequent
aits to have been the intention of the pro
clamation, it is presumed, no material dif
ference of opinion can now exist lipon that
fubjeil.—lt is somewhat lingular that
there fnould have appeared in print, but
one fyfiematjc attempt to defend the pro
clamation; it is more lingular that its fa
vorers P.tould almolt unanimously, acqui
esce Fn the supposed success of tlris attempt,
and It is molt lingular, that with many,
the defence Ihomd turn out the proclama
tion's fevered accuser. The defence al
luded to, has been presented to the public
in leveral pieces under tile iignature o! Pa
cificus. Ihe flrft number which speaks o!
the conrtitutional right of the l'relident to
ifl'ue a proclamation inipoling neutrality,
teems with 'contradictions and absurdities.
The doflrines it inculcates u are of a na
ture to excite attention —to beget alarm
to inspire doubts. Deductions of a verj
extraordinary complexion lr.aj, -.vifhout
forcing the sense, be drawn from them.
it is not proposed lo attempt a fyftema
tic refutation of Pacificu . the attempt
wojjld be troublesome and unpleasant tc
the writer, and unprofitable to the reader ;
iv is intended only to point rut two or three
pontradiftions and absurdities ;n his iirll
number.—Pacificus fir ft atferl s, that the
object of the proclamation was, merely tc
declare the existing date of the nation ii
the next place he aflerts, the object to have
been, to disavow a compliance with th<
nth article of the treaty with France
Here then is. the nioft radical and eflentia
cpHtradiflioa in the awwed nbjatt of the
proclamation. It will be readily admittei
that the Prelident may of right proclain
theexiiling slate of the nation, whenevei
he may think proper, but it would be '•
folly in him to do so, without the existence
ijf some extraordinary caufe.—lt will ai
the fame time be pofuively denied, that he
may of r'ght dispense with one tittle oi ai'
rxi'fting treaty, or that he is the conftitute<
tribunal of decision for that purppfe. The
right to dispense with one article of a trea
ty necellarily includes a concurrent right
to dispense with any other ; if, therefore
it be admitted, that the Preiident may dis
pense with one article of a treaty, he
may if tight dispense with all treaties: A
fir Hot*, he may dispense with all laws;
conlliuitiohally yielding to treaties whet
brought in to collision.—The chiefqueltion,
which has agitated the public mind, result
ing from the proclamation, has been, whe
ther it was, or was not, intended to have
the force of law? Pacificus teachei
lis, that it is not only equivalent to the or
dinary municipal regulations, but is ever
uperior to the Jupreme law of the land
iince it may repeal, or what amounts tc
'.lie fame thin;;, dispense with its execution
It is however tielieved, that this is only the
infatuated wilb of the sophist, and not the
sbje£t of the Prelident.—Pacificus nexi
proceeds to search the canltitufion for this
right in the Prelident, and inltead of find
ing it in express terms, deduces it from the
words " Executive power" These word:
are nothing more than the mere designa
tion of a department, they do not amotfnt tc
the ceflion ot a fcintiila of authority. —The
term "executive power," when applicable
to government, and left otherwise undefin
;d,isa relative term. To afcertaiii its mean
ing, and limit its extent, reference must be
nad to its meaning and extent in other go
vernments. It appears obviotlfly to have
been the intention of the writer, that En
gland lhouid be refoted to, as the orthodox
itandard of definition, and under the sweep
ing influence of thi» reasoning, the Preli
dent would be furnilhed with the fume
strong arm in America, which, is compofec
jf the royal executive prerogatives there
The only check supplied by our sophist
:cnlifls of the rights exprejsly reserved t<
:he people in the conllitution. The ron
(litution being an affirmative grant of au
thorities, anel not a negative reservation of
rights, would afford a check, truly impotent
and unavailing.
It is not proposed to enlarge upon the
old topic of conltruetive powers; it could
not be effectually done without encroach
ing upon the ground occupied by Publius in
1788. For my next number, therefore, a
republication of number XXXI3I of the
firft vol. and part of number XLI of fecund
volume, page 46, 47, of the once federal
Pliblius; an exira£t from the report upon
manufactures, and so much as Pacificus as
immediately relates to this fubje£t, will be
reqeftect.—The public may thus behold the
progrelfive ftateot "federal orthodoxy.''
The public will find the ground then oc
cupied by Pilblius, now occupied by the
minority of Congress ; all their efforts feein
to ha"ve been directed towards an adminis
tration of the government upon the adopt
*nS conftruft'oH of the Constitution, whilst,
if the ideal Pubiius of 1788, and Pacificus
of 1793, fti°uld unite in the Tame real per
son. it will be observed that Pubiius has
advanced from the found sense and solid
reasonings which procured him the exclu
sive appellation of 44 The Federali{t," to a
more extravagant cafuiltry than has ever
been furnilhed in the exfuffolate surmises
of the molt jealous Antifederal.
The sophist having observed that this
fccpe of reasoning was wholly unneceflary
for ths direct object in view, and leaving
the reader to infer that his collateral ob
ie£t in having tlfed it, was to familiarize
the public mind to this boundless adminis
trative conftruilion,proceeds to deduce the
rqjht of the President from this expreflion,
" He (hall take care that the laws be faith
fully executed." It is a strange inference
indeed 1 that a duty impojcd to execute the
laws, fliould involve the right to controul
or dijpenfe with their execu'iou. This in
ference decorates the dotlrine of implication
with all its fantaftical fubtilties.
The ease of removal from office ha?
been adduced as an exemplification of the
conclusions of the sophist, in the cafe of the
proclamation: In that cafe the question
was, whether the President, whocimflitu
tionally polfefl'es the right of appointment
to office, fijouid exclusively exereife the
removal from office, in which lat
ter c,.£'he C onftitutio!l was silent? or
whether in the cafe of removal fume other
branch of tire government fiiouii! Partici
pate with him ?—ln the cafe of removal,
a law was found neceftury to fan&ion the
'xercife of the right in the President ; the
ilfent of the other branches of the go
vernment were then deemed indifpenfa
jle, If the cases be analagons, why are
:hefe requisites now dispensed with ? they
:ertalnly ought not to be upon the Jcore of
inalagy. In the cafe ot removal from
office, the right of appointment being con
litutionally veiled in the President, the
ight of removal was deemed incidental to
t. If the fame reasoning were to prevail
in the cafe of the proclamation, it would
i'eft the right, at least of deciding on the
validity of treaties, in Congress collectively,
ind riot in the President exclusively. be
:aufe the general authority of declaring
war, is vetted in Congress collectively, and
not in the President exclusively, and the
Jecifion refpefting the efficacy or inefiicaey
of exilting treaties, seems inseparably con
nected with that right. The constitutional
object of,veiling Congress colle£tively with
the right to declare war. was to prevent
the United States from being drawn into
war, without the content of the people.
If the President ufiirp the right of refil
ing a compliance with treaties, he may in
volve the United States in a war, not only
without the cdnfent, but againlt the wiflies
md interests of the people ; and by this
ophiftical artifice, the mod wife and va
uable provision of the constitution, would
>e rendered unavailing. It Ihould be re
:olle£ted, that there is no precise form of
■vorcts for declaring war, and a refufal to
:omply with an exilting treaty, may fub
lantially amount to a declaration of
,var, as it may be the jufl cauje of pro
■oking a war from tin oppo'liie cantratling
lation ; the fubllance of declaring war
nay thus be usurped by the Pr?lident,
•vhilft the shadow i> h ft for the amusement
if Congress. The present situation of the
Jnited States, furni'hes the molt striking
example—the President by dispensing with
in exilting treaty, may provoke a war
with France. The mealure would plunge
the moll envenomed dagger into the hearts
:>f Uie American people. Although it is
leared that the reaforimgs of this dangerous
sophist were officially laid before the Pre
sident previously to i filling the proclama
tion, it is yet Imped, it is yet believed, that
lie could not lilU-n pleafurably to opinions
inducing so palpable a usurpation of pow
er. It is hoped tl at the President has not
determined to dispense with one tittle of
an ex',fling treaty, or that lie is the consti
tuted tribunal for making such a decision.
The President mull know that the attempt
tu l?ad America war 2gainft France,
[Total Numb. 199 ]
would either eventuate in exhibiting the
inefficacy of the constituted tribunals, wlaert
exerted against the virtuous affe£tions of
the great body of the people—or to effect
the object, would purple the Americsit
fields with the blood of his flaughtercd
countrymen. „
Americans ! you differ not in yovrpoliti
cal priric'ples—you adore liberty-r-you ad
mire republicanism—you are diftraited
and divided in matters of belief —you are
reluctant in the belief of designs which
may dilturb Jyur peace. Suffer not poli
tical artifices to gain a viftwrv over your
underfiandings. But permit me, honest
unbelievers 1 to direst your eyes to foma
infallible beacons. — Behold your perpetual
iebts, your perpetual taxes,unheard of till
of late in America—look at their effects
upon posterity—compare them with the
;ffe£ts of the old British debts. Behold th«
>ank.—See the sympathy between the
BfitiUi and American stockholder. Look:
at the veil ftirnifhed for their dark negosi
itions. See the aveniie of corruption to
:ongre(lional adventurers. Behold the
noney destined by law to retribute a debt
;f justice—os honor—of gratitude—of in
inite utility—drawn from its hallowed
leftin.atiori in the time of fieed, to embar
rass the ftrnggl; ;g catife of liberty, and to
ncreafe the depolits in the bank. See the
offending officer called on to rendjr an ac
lount of his hidden trahfailions—Behold
he Bank Directors fitting as his congreffi«
jnal judges—See them not only difcharg
ng him with impunity, but applauding his
leroic contempt of your constitution and
aw. See the fame Bank Dire&ors re
viving a portion of the emoluments re
"ulting from the iiicreafed ability of the
sank to difcotint by means of these depo
its. See the officer acknowledging fa&s,
ind the more cautious guardians of his re
station denying their existence. See the
prevarications, deceptions, and fubtilties
i)f ti'ieTrtucer, eqaaflrd by netnirg but his
nfulting contumacy, when fumnioned to
jifclofe the history of his proceedings. Be
laid the coercive influence of a created
>ap£»" and British faction, made the ground
work of admiriftration, whilst the voice
>f the pnbijc will, is either (lifted ordif
•egarded. See ;l?e adopting anftrudion
>f your conflitution. be'tldj the bound
els scope of admini[irctiive £dhJ?>ultion,
ind compare with them, the rigij
riony of conftruclive powers when the
French tre;. y is to be expounded. Behold
_he crocodilifli tears affeaedly died for
LiOuis the XVlth, but really shed for the
rail of defpotifin and the triumph of liberty.
>ee the placid obduracy of the Came tender,
tathetic hearts, when thousands of their
fellow men are flaughrered in the virtuous
upport of their righto, against the op
jreffive wron-rs ps tyrants'. See republi
:anifm fpuriied at, even across the Atlantic.
Behold the difference in a point of Ia it,
between your judges and your jury. See
an arrogant Scotchman, of doubtful cl ar
after during our late struggle for liberty,
mounted upon the supreme judicial bench.
See him alarming the jury with the hor
rors of a civil war, unlefa they found a ci
:izen guilty of a crime, against whom they
:ovild find no crime.-Behold him called
an for the law defining the crime and fixl
: ng the punishment. —See him instead of
sroducing one law, averting the breach of
' many laws.' - —Behold him in his zealous
earch afliidft the confufion and uncertain
ly of the 1 aws of nations, in the preambles
aftrfaties.and in the conceits ofllis own di
flurbed imagination.seeking for pen .1 laws
to furnith the condemnation of a citizen.
Behoid the attempts upon the sovereignty
ijfyour Hate governments. See yi»ur hatt?d
dependence npou Britain,thro' the/ympa
>hy of your debts aud impofls.—Behold the
pitiful and ififamous attempts to transfer
your affections from the French to the Bri
:ifh cause. Behold a (Chief "Justice and a
Senator, the avowed heroes of a popular
tlamour. See the mighty importance given
to one, perhaps inconsiderate, perhaps un~
ihflifimble expreflion of an enlightened
French patriot. See the unfriendly (fcruti.
nizing jealousy upon his conduct. See with
what eager impetuefity it is expoftd to
the public view. Behold the new fangled
**** threats against your printers, for
telling you the truth. Examine the sources
ef these flrange phenomena ; look at their
objects, and decide whethef they be the
effect of accident or fyttem—Thendi/belieiie
f your JenJes will permit you, the exifiencl
of tome formidable coitfpiracy a Fain It your
government, your liberties, and your pre.
perties,
A Uniform FedtrtlifiREMARKS on the FRENCH CON
STITUTION. By a citizen of America.
REASON, Whatever may be our preju
dices, it will be granted, is : that uner
ring standard by which alone we are to
estimate the merits,. properties>or princi
ples of every thing which comes within the
circle of our observations. ImpreiTed with
this sentiment, I beg leave to offer a few
fpontaueous remarks tfa the new constitu
tion of t6^,T rencli Republic ; and while 1
bellow the tribute of my heart, 1 could
with my abilities to eulogise its excellencies
were equal to the unspeakable interest.
■which, as a man, as a philanthropist, as a
republican, but above all, as ail American,
I feel in its Uate. The meliorating prin
ciples, the rational plau of rignts, and the
perteft system of republican legiflatioii
which it contains, Will, in spite of the ma
chinations of the harpies of despotic domi
nation, spread themselves throughout the
world, and imprint their indelible traits on
the mind of man. Whether the despots of
Europe annihilate it in France, or tail un
der its emancipat ng influence, the great
truths which it exhibits will never be obli
teratedfrom the minds of thofeunftiackled
men who can, and who dare to think ami
speak: Every line, every principle of this
noble fuperftrufture is replete with beau
ties, which the pen of the philosopher wii'
delight to unfold—ln proportion as igno
rance t prejudice and opprellion is banifhet
"from among men, will the fundamentals o)
the free constitution of France be more
prevalent. In the course of the enfuiut
obrervations, I shall confiae myfelf to ;
few of the most eflential pillars or. whicl
this great work is placed. Equality i:
the great corner flone on which it rtfts
At firft view, this principle appears to em
brace too much ; but it is only in appear
ance and will vanilhon examination. Be
fore I proceed to elucidate this remark, ii
will not be amiss to difclaiin every idea ol
that abandoned, perverted fpec'es of equa
lity which the abettors of arbitrary puwei
inlinuate the French have eftablilhcd anion;,
them—An equality which, accordiHg li
their'/#* dixit, entitles one man to pilfei
from another the property which he iia:
indulfrioilfly and honestly earned—lf thi:
was true, there conld be no equality lr
France, since if even they had all turnec
highway-men, the thief of a .puny make
would have a small chance against the
brawny arm of inufcular depredators. A
Condition like this would not be foundec
on the basis of 'Equality—lt wonld be simi
lar to theftateof society among the brutes.
Let us endeavour to trace the inflitution!
of human society from the moll early pe
riods—A state of nature wa* incontellibl)
the firft condition of man—Bv a ltate o!
nature I mean, his being-obliged to roair
through the forefts in I'earch of tfee wilt
fruits of the earth, and such dtbfcr food a:
his appetites and uncul rivaled mind migh;
point out as most proper; and also, furnilh
jug himfelf v;ith a habitation, such as rea
son dictated to him as belt. Let us pursue
■ftianinall his perambulations, and infpefl
him in all his original charafteriflics: A horc
or clan of wild inen adventitiously take Us
their abode on the fame feeding ground—
They claim ho pi operty—they have no laws
—they want no king—but thcy have fami
lies to support. Every fathtr of a family
goes out to gather the acorns of the sorest
—he fjtisfies himfelf, and with both hands
filled (clothes and pockets not being yet
xontrived) returns home to his wife and
little ones—On the way he is met by a man
of superior strength, who, cortfcious of his
superiority, takes, by force, what the other
had gained by his induilry : The strong
wan, before he reaches his hut, is met by
another stronger than himfelf, who robs
him of his plunder, and who, in his turn,
is met by the Itrongelt man in the whole
wild fraternity, and experiences a treat
ment similar to that which the others had
received from him —Here, then, we llop.
Neceflity obliged men, in a state of nature,
to unite themselves againli the depreda
tions of the strong and powerful. This
produced equality, by reducing the strong
to a level with their neighbours—and thus
this equality is founded in Nature, and ap
probated by Reason. [-V. York "journal. J
« —
FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
Paris, July 12.
Letter addressed to citizen DupoNT, chief of
brigade, and adjutant general of the firjl
divjfion of the North.
Head-quarrersat Cambray, July 16.
*• I have good news of you, niv dear Du
pont. I would not be too hasty in com
municating it t« you, till it were daily more
and more confirmed by our spies, and the
deserters who came over. '
" The power of the leagued Kings has
been dalhing against the walls ot Valen
ciennes; they may convert that unhappy
city into a heap of allies and ruins; but
they will never subdue the invincible cou
rage of its inhabitants, and of the republic
an soldiers who defend its ramparts.—
Hitlory does not futnilh an instance ot so
cruel a bombardment as this city is doomed
to fuffer.— For these three weeks near 200
pieces of eangon have played upon the city,
both day and night. The garrison makes
Tallies every day, whish proves not less fa
tal to the enemy than the loss of battles.
" Cobourg, finding that the fire of the
fortrefs slackened, thought it was destitute
of ammunition, and attempted to scale it in
the night between the sth and 6rh. The
Englilh, the Hungarian Grenadiers, ami
Hanoverians, were to perform the talk,
by means of barges laden with scaling lad
ders, which were tnrown into the foflees.—
Genera! Ferrand perceived the enemy's de
lign, and fuffere:l them to approach, but
« hen they were preparing to throw up the
scaling ladders, he a (Faulted them inftanrlj
with a fhovver of balls and case-shot, which
lighted upon them in every direflion.! The
nunvber of those who fell victims in thi
raf.i enterprize, is computed at about 600 c
men. lam positively sure, that Cobourj
was determined to facrilice 5000 men tc
fecufe hiinfelf in the success of this assault.
The afl'aiUnts thus repulsed, took flight ir
confufion, and were pursued into heii
camp. The explofi.on of a mine, whicl
blown up the fame moment at the Rolleux.
completed their deteat.
Since the beginning of the liege, the ene
my have loft a great number of cannons,
which were taken, spiked, or diftnounted
An epidemical malady, occalioned by the
putrid exhalations from the woods ol
Raimes and the camp ofFamars, spread
desolation ainony the combined armies.
The hospitals of Mons and Brufiels are no:
spacious enough to contain their lick anc
wounded.
(Signed) CHF.RIN.
Adjutant-General.''
London, July 22. The siege of Valen
ciennes advances but {lowly, owing to the
vigorous resistance of the besieged, whe
smploy every refonrce of art to retard
the completion of the third parallel. The
bombardment is continued with the utmofl
fury, and not one part of the city isflielter
ed from dettru&ion. The deserters report,
that above 6coo inhabitants have been kUl
?d or wounded by the fire of the combined
army : they fay, that the commandant Fer
rand, has made the garrison take an oath to
die rather than content to surrender the
city.
July xs- We have fevcral letters from
:lie camp before V alenciennes ; & although
:hey are all uncommonly barren of intelli
gence refpecling the liege, we learn from
:hem, that the third parallel was
?d, but the batteries upon it not opened on
Lhe 19th ; that there was no chance of
Laking the place but-by aflault» ia which
cafe the Austrian troops, exasperated by
:he number of men they have loft, and the
British troops, by daily converfatiiri with
the Auftrians, will put the garrtfon and in
habitants in (iifcriminitfly to the sword; thai
Che eSlcers of the garrison, in conversation
during a (liort triue, said, they regretted
the issue to which the siege must come, that
they knew that they had no right to ex
pect quarters, but that they felt it theit
duty to defend what their country had giv
en them in charge, to the last extremity.
Front the .prof peel of luch carnage the mind
turns away with horror and disgust.
By letters from Turin, dated June 28,
we hear, that the king of Sardinia is going
to command in person the allied armies a
giirift the French ; all his houfehoid were
aiready departed when the letters came
away
sre afftired that M. Gafton, wh.c
commands the royalists in France, is the
celebrated Gafton de Bougainville, well
linown'by his voyage round the world.
Lord Hood reached Gibraltar, with the
division of the fleet under his command, 011
the 20th ult.—He was joined by the divi
[ion that had put into Cadiz on the 23d,
and immediately proceeded up the Medi
terranean. He was off Alicant on the Bth
111 ft.. Part of his van had even got up as
high as Malaga.
Britilh Head-quarters, F,ftreux, July 16.
On the 13th, agreeable to articles of sur
render, the garrison of Conde marched out
:>f the town, and laid down their arms.
It consisted of four thousand and eight
hundred men, antongft whom were three
regiments of the troops of the line, a
mounting to two thousand seven hundred
men; the reft were national guards, the
tlrongeft battalion of whom consisted ol
four hundred and forty menv
One hundred and three pieces of Ord
nance were found in the place, but the
quantity of ammunition is inconfulerable.
Paris, July 16. The treatment of the roy
al family is less rigorous than formerly.
The separation of the dauphin from the
queen is the only circumstance of -crueltj
that has been added to the past.
The comtniflioners on duty in the temple
are no longer changed, and continue to
wait on the royal captives. They treat
them with refpeflful greatness. They are
not only fuffered to walk about, but even
their table has been bettered.
Tifon, the woman who waited on the
queen, has turned lunatic. She was im
mediately taken out of the tower, put in a
separate room, and a* ntirfe afligned to her.
This nurse was bound to take an oath not
to reveal any thing of what Tifon might
fay in her fits of phrenzy.
The dauphin is now allowed to play in
the garden with his new kee| er ; he may
also speak to the centinels ; an indulgence
which vra« never granted before.
PHILADELPHIA.
Wednesday, Seplember 2j.
That immense number of waggon®, feme
of them from far beyond the Alleghany, that
used to crowd Maiket-flreet at this season
of the year, are totally disappeared. We
are told that the drrets of Baltimore are
bow thronged with them ; and thus not
one of the lead ill confeqtiences of the de
flru£tive yellow fever, is the chance of its
eventually turning,for a time, a considera
ble branch of trade into another channel,
and occasioning many new connexions in a
rival city.
On Friday evening last. all the New-York
and Philadelphia land stages returned to
this city with their paflengers,. mortified
and fatigued. They were refuled a pas
sage through the Jerfies. One of the dri
vers had a very narrow «scape with his
lite, being cruelly fired upon at Trento»,
the ball palling wihin a few inches of one
us his ears. No provisions were to be ob
uined on the road, norany accommodation
jf any kind, 'even for the lady-paflengers.
The French ih'p of war La Perdrix, of
52 guns, and l'lmpatient of 14 guns, ar
rived at New-York on Thursday last, in
days from Naiitz. They toek on their
pafiage, two 'Slips, the Jamaica and the
Sarah, on the'ir passage from Jamaica to
London. By these vefl'els the Minister of
Prance has received letters to the 25th of
July, which contain new proofs of the
?fteem of the French nation for that diplo
matic character. " His firft report, which
:entains the inoft agreeable information
jpon the brotherly reception made him,
particularly by the American citizens, and
which makes such a linking cor.tract with
:he aridocratSc behaviour of Mr. M«rris,
he American minifterat Paris, spread uni
rerfal joy, and gave the greatest Jhope for
.he success of his negociation, though he
:onft(Ted in hffe report, that he had a ftrons
ind ci lining party to fight, who, in the firfl
nomcDt of popular enthufiafiu for the
French cause dared not to (hew themselves
>penly, but who, in lime would find fe«ret
ind perfidious means to oppose the great
:ft difficulties to his zeal."
" When the above vefiels left France,
he siege ofValenciennes was raised, Con
ie had furreadered:—the infurgtnts were
jeaten every day, and the fleets of the re
public, not only proteiled the coasts, fcul
.vere mailers of the gulph and channel.
Vlarat had been killed by a woman, as he
ivas coming out of a bath.
The Conllitution was accepted by the
jreateft number of the departments, and
ill the members of the Convention, aa well
is tlie ministers who had been under ar
rest, were delivered up and reltored tc
heir funflions.''
On the fame day arrived at New-York
the ship Factor, Brown, from London.
she brings London papers to July 26.
According to these, the French fortrefs ol
3ellegarcte frtrrendered to the Spaniard:
in the 2 jtli of June [Bsllegarde is a for
refs commanding one of the partes thro :
he Pyrennees from France into Spain. _
The garrison, confiding of near a thoufanc
nen, were to remain prisoners of war.—
& fquacron charged with Tome important
niflion, had failed from Bred ; its depar
ure was retarded a few days on account
rfa mutiny on board two seventy fours.—
"For other particulars by these veflels, fee
jui* foreign head ]
We hear from Bodon, that Mr. Du
Maine, French Vice-Consul at that port,
' was arretted"there at the indance of i
Jetty officer of the federal government, foi
>pp»fing with an armed force from the
Concord trigate, the marlhal of thediflrifl
n the execution of a precept from the
United States." "It is the (insert hope
>( every friend to the peace and happinef:
jf his country (observes the Chronicle]
:hat this, as well as other flagrant instance!
jf insult and a6ufe to the diplomatic chst
■aiters of the French nation in America,
may be represented by them to their re
public, as the effort of a contemptible par
ty, who were once as much opposed to the
-evolution of America, as they now are tc
that of France, that when reparation dial
be demanded by that gallant nation, thej
inay be fatisfied with the punilhment of the
individuals-, rather than the great body ol
the.American people, whole feelingsanc
principles are congenial with their own
Ihould be involved in the horrors of war.'
All hopes of effecting a peace with thi
hostile tribes of Indians, being now givei
up, great preparations are making at For
W aihington for a campaign- Genera
Wayne's army at present confids of 300 c
regular troops, riflemen, artillery, and in
fantry, btfules one regiment of horse, ol
about 400 men. The volunteers from Ken
tucky will cenfid of 1500 mounted inf*n
try, to be commanded by general Scott,
The army are in excellent spirits, and said
to be in a date of superior discipline.
From Paris papeiswe learn,that the re
mains of Marat were interred on the 16th
of July with great funeral pomp. The
Parisian feftions alEfted at the ceremony,
and an immense concourse of people at
tended. On the 17 th, the woman that
aflafficiated him was tried ; she was con
demned, and fuffered the fame evening.
Previous to the 20th inft. the malignant
fever in this city had abated to a mblt
flattering degree. Warm weather, how
ever, succeeding some cold andfroliy days,
the contagion again took wing, and hat
made melancholy havoc among our mutli
lamented citizens. The wind being now
northeasterly, and an equinoxial gale in
the atmosphere, it is hoped the change ill
:he temperature of the air may have some
effe£>, under ProvideHce, towards mitiga
ting or expelling the disease.
Accounts from the combined armies (via
London) fay, that the garrison of Valenci
ennes made a vigorous foriie on the 6th of
July, by which the combined armies lefc
[ix thonfand men, killed: previous to
which the garrison fuff'ered a continual fire
us 200 pieces for several days and rights,
ind an attack by escalade was attempted
3y general Cobourg, which general Fer
rand fulfered to approach very near before
le Tallied out upon them wihthis determined
troops; daily sallies proved very fuccefsful;
autrid fevers made great havock in the
:ombined armies, occasioned by rains and
lamps; the hospitals hi Brussels could not
:ontain their sick.
Conde certainly fwrrendered on the 13th
if July; the garrison made prisoners of
war : 103 pieces of cannon were found iu
:he place, but no powder.
The king of Peland (fays a London pa
3er) on being required tb lign the *.£1 of
jccellion to the new partition of Poland.in
favour of the empress of RnHia, gave an
ibfolute refufal, aud informed the ambas
sador that he would foener part with his
:rown than fiiin an ait of consent to tho
new dismemberment of his unhappy coun
try. The Diet, by a great majority, had'
decided againlt the difaierobernieDt of the
country, and have offerett rather to drive
tl Ruffians entirely ent of the kingdom,
and surrender it wholly into the hands c;
Rufiia, than agree to a difmeßibcrmeiit.
—[June2j]
The attempt of the F.nglifh miniflry to
withdraw the Grand Duke of Tufcany
from his neutrality inrefpeft totheFrench.
has excited a general indignation through
that l'ingdon). The 4th article of their
late treaty with Kulfia. is as follow:
" Their majeflies engage to unite all their
efforts to prevent other powers, not impli
cated in this war, from giving, on this oc
cation of connrfon concern to every civi
lized state, any protection whatever, di
rectly or indirectly, in cor.sequence of their
neutrality, to the commerce or property
of the French o-n the sea. or in the ports of
France." Thus have they faithfully en
tered into engagements to prevent, if pof
ible, any prince from securing to his fub
lettsthe bleflings of peace and commerce,
and have determined as far as in them lies,
to extend the horrors of war all over
Europe. Some curious manoeuvring in
this country, renders it suspicious that a
imilar game has been attempted here, but
without the wiflied for success ; the people
being yet matters of the government of the
United States, and not vice verja.
Some accounts from Europe fay, that
the island of Corsica has been delivered up
to the Spaniards, through the treason of
general Paoli.
By a late arrival at Boflon from Gibral
tar, we are afliired that there has not been
any jnnftion of the English and Spanifli
fleets : the Spanifli had gone to Carthage
11a, and the crews in general were very
sickly. The French fleet was at Toulon 1
the English at Barcelona.—Theßrit'fl fri
gate Iris, of 32 guns,had put into Gibraltar,
much fliattercd in an attion with a French
frigate.
" The citizens of the United States, &c.
lave been deceived by the publication of a
ettcrfrom Halifax, said to be written on
board of the frigate Boston. The fact is,
that tnis letter was written on/here, and
hat the Boston has not (as we have yet
jeard of) arrived in any port. It was fup
t>ofed at Halifax, that die was gone to
Newfoundland." [AT. York Journal.3
Baltimore, Sept. 17, "As this plague,
nalignant fever, or what you may please
o call it, has become a general topic in
tonverfation, I mult beg leave to put in a
Lvord or so 011 the dreadful fubje£t—l will
"uppofe then, that Margery, (an old wo
nan of four score) lias got this diabolical,
jvicked, and unrelenting'fever ; (lie willies
o live a few years longer, though flie has
lot got a tooth in her head, and for leven
/ears past has walked upon crutches—She
ends off port haste for Deborah Doleful—
sou must know, my readers, before I
jroceec! any further in my narrative, that
Deb. and .Margery had been playmates
when young, and both had bioke their leg*
[hort off in the middle, before their nine
teenth year, whether by jumping a fence,
jrcrofling aftone wall, is unknown to the
author. But this is not the point I wifli to
beat—l only nwant, their fuffering fucli a
melancholy accident was the cause of their
tiling crutches—Hum I—Deborah, like a
good old foul, came hopping to fee Mar
gery—almost out of breach, (lie dropt her
crutches at the bed fide, and began to feel
Margery's pulse—Heigh, Madge, said De
borah, you are in aragingfever, and 'tis ten
to one that you will live to fee to-morrow
—you are very bad indeed—and I am
really afraid we must part at last. You
have made your Will I hope—if not, let itbe done immediately, for I'm sure you
can't live long ; and in the mean time, ii
you chufe—you mud—you (ball have a
parfonto pray for you—poor devil, you
little know what it is todie—farewell Mar
gery—may God receive your dyitlg foul 1
" Thus was the old worn in (who before
Deb. came in, had only a fligluhead-ache)
persuaded that lhe had caught the plague
from a person who came from Philadel
phia a day or two before, and who lodged
at Margery'sfince he came down,& togive
up all hopes of recovering from her ima
ginary illness—and thus resigned, though
unwillingly, her breath to the evil genius
of darkness, death, and delulion ; leaving
Deb. her whole fortune, with which (lie
hopped home, laughing at the folly and
credulity of some people, who imagine
they are dyingj while balking in the meri
dian of health ami longevity."
Ba timore, Sept. 19. A correspondent
observes that while the pafl'engers from
F .iladelphiaby the land stages, are not fiit
fered to come into town, nor permitted tc
enter any house on the road, that tempt)
rary (heds ought to be tixSd up for their
accommodation, till such time as they maj
return to the place from whence the)
came,or have performed quarantine agree
able to the governor's proclamation---ar<
they to fuffer all the inclemencies of the
season, (the canopy of heaven their onl;
covering,) merely because they are iuppof
ed to be infeited with the fever Which i
now prevalent in Philadelphia, and part
adjacent ? He hopes his fellow-citizen
will attend to this hint, and provice a re
medy before it is too late !
Sept. 20.
The Secretary of State, his daughter
and servant, entered this town yefterdv
afternoon, by the permiflion of the health
officer, having left Philadelphia with tin
President of the United States ; and thi
morning set out for Mount Vernon. Thi
Secretary informed the health-officer, tha
30 foot pafl'engers, men and women, wen
on their way from Philadelphia to Balti
more. —The citizens will be cautions no
to permit them to enter their houses, with
out permission from the health-officer ; a
they may, probably, endeavour to e*ad(
the watch, by taking a different route ti
Baltimore.'"
Baltimore, Sept. 2t. This morning be
ing the amvverfary of the abolition o
royalty in France, the morning was ufheret
by a discharge of 21 guns from the Aftrea
a French frigate, now lying here—ol
whose mainmast head appeared the cap o
liberty—the colours of different nations ii
alliance with France, &c. &c. being' dil■
played on board her, and the reft of th<
veflels iri the bafdn, in a crtnfpicudus anc
beautiful manner, to do honour to a da;
on which Frenchmen had the courage an<
virtue to declare "THAT ROYAL
TV WAS FOREVER ABOLISHED It-
FRANCE." A large number of Frenct
citizens j and a refpeflable Company of A
merican patriots, partook of an elegan
dinner, at Mr. Grays', given on this oc
rafion, by citizen MotssoNiEß, Frencl
vice coriful—at which a number of repub
lican toasts went round, from citizen to ci
tizen, each one emulous to Outvie in cele
brating the anniversary of " FREEDOM':
TRIUMPH OVER MONARCHY, tY
RANNY, AND DESPOTISM.
On Saturday last the French citizens ce
lebrated the firft anniversary of the Procla
mation of the Republic. They partook ol
a repast on board the French India lhip
La Villi dc I'Orlent} but abstained fron
exhibiting the nfual demonftraticns of joy
which at this calamitous time mult havf
tended to wound the feelings of the as
flitted Philadelphians. They confined them
selves to firing the three salutes command
ed by the Republic on the sccafion ; and
it mud be observed, did not forget theii
brethren in affli&ion, in the toasts the;
drank. The following is a lift of them
1. The twenty-fir/} »f September ; the da;
of the Proclamation of the French Repub
lie. 2. The French Republic, one auc
indivisible. 3* The Republic of theFifteer
United States of 4- Perpetua
Union between the two nations. 5. Ma;
the million of Citizen GENET prove mort
and more advantageous to the two nations.
6 Success to «ur forces by fei and lam
against deCpotifm. 7. May the commercia
connexion between the two Republics en
creafe every day. 8. To the memory ol
all those brave men who have fallen in
defence of liberty and of their country. 9.
Mav the new Conftitutiou effect the re
union of all parties. 10. The good city
f Philadelphia: may it soon be releared
l.oai the present affliaing calamity.—
Volunteers —The National Convention—
The Congrefsof the United States —The
People : may the future generation won
er that despots ever existed—The Re
v,'oh can GENET—President WASHING
TON : may he ever place his glory in de
fending and supporting Liberty and Equa
lity !
Extract of a letter from a gentleman whe
lately took a passage in the stage from
this city to the (outhward.
\Ve were (topped about (even rone!
from Baltimore by armed men, who used
us with every indignity, aud hatred indica
tive of malice propenj'e j they detained us
in the stages from 5 in the evening until 101
Che ensuing morning; during this interval,
one of those ruffians, who appeared to be I
a German, fiiapped his piece at one of out
party, wh« feeined inclined to leave the
Itage, with an apparent delign to go i»
aniong the buflies near the road. Ihe
gu:ird, in their tender mercy, were pleased
to hand to us a piece of dry cheese on the
end of a pitch fork. After this quarantine,
we were permitted to go to Grays gar
dens, and there perforin another, for the
[pace of two days and nights."
Doctor Rustox, from long experience
in Europe, and other parts, recommends
che following as a fife and easy cure ot the
contagion now prevailing in Philadelphia-
- u As foori as a perfoil it seized with the
Fever, which is nfuully attended with chill,-
rfefs, pains in the bones, llead-aches, and
icknefs at rtornach, s he firft thing to be ta
ken is, (for a grown person) three grains
jf Tartar-Emetic. This soon creates a
plentiful difcliarge, hot only fibin the uo
mich, but from the held, the throat, the
liver, and eves from the intellines thctil-
Telves ; its operation is also generally fol
luwed by tv'o or more plentiiul discharges
tf the lower belly, the conference ot
which i s , that the person finds himfelf very
much relieved, and generally pafl'es a tole
rable night. The next day the following
purge is to be gi^en.—Take 4 ounces of
pulp of tsifiarinds, boil them in half a pint
bf water, strain it, and to 3 ounces of the
mixture add 3 drachms of nianra, and! 5
grains of the belt powdered rheubarb. Ot
this compound one half is to be take n
immediately, anil the remainder in halt
an hour, working it otf by drinking plen
tifully of water gruel, made of oatmeal
and a fufficient quantity of water. — No ani
mal food of any kind, or even broth, is tc
be eaten ; but ripe fruit and vegetable'
particularly potatoes and baked apples,
are to be indulged in to any amount the pa
tient pleases. The remaining part of the
.lire conlills in drinking plentifully of toli
water, barley water,either with or without
tigs or railins boiled in it, tamarind water ;
eatiflg tamarinds; or by a repetition of tilt
iurge, by which means the body is kept con
tantly open ; and irt taking a few powder:
of ten grains of nitre each, every three or
lour hours, in any of tbefe drinks or ii
balm tea."
It appears by the reports from the holpi
ral at Bush-Hill, that many of those whc
lave been removed thither, in the earl)
stage of the malignant fever have met with
r e ]ief: but that in molt of the cases where
:he disease has been mricli advanced, the
attempts to ufford assistance have provec
fruitlefs. The committee therefore re
□ ueft theif fellow citizens to apply for the
removal of such sick perfens as are intend
ed for the hospital, with as little delay a:
joflible, after it can be ascertained and cer
tified by a physician, that their disease is the
malignant feyer.
By direction of the committee,
CALEB LOWNES, Sec'ry,
Clean linen is much wanted.
" for tile relief of the
Ick in this city, have a house, under the di
-eaion of three of their members, for the
-eception of Orphan children, whose pa
-ent: and guardians died, during the prefen
/ifitation. This committee fit day ane
light, and are determined to die at tlieii
)oft,- rather than forego the pleating tad
jf relieving the diftreflVd. The committee
ire compoled of the Mayor and twenty-fi>
:itizens, two of whom attend at the hoi-
Vital the whole day through : we have the
"atisfaftlon to add, that all the public inlti
utions are still clear of the fatal effects o.
he malignant effluvia."
A clergyman died in England last (firing
jne remarkable particular attended hi
Jeath. His library fold for three pounds;
ind the liquors in his cellar for 2761.
Lord Hervey, the English minister to the
Grand Duke of Tufcany. ha? remonftratec
n the name of the king of f>■ Britain, againfl
he neutrality the Grand Duke had declar
ed last year, in favour of France. The
"übftance of the Grand Duke's anfw'er tc
ill English remonttrances on this fubjefr
s, " that he would not depart from the
leutrality he hat' hitherto observed to
wards France, but most faithfully abide b)
t'• it was thought this answer woulc
jccafion a rupture between the combinei
lowers and the dukedom of I ufcany. Ir
rich cafe the latter must inevitably throw
lerfelf into the arms of France.
80/ ion, Sept. 12. Capt. L'Ecuyer, of
he Marseilles French privateer, having
"ound on board of several vessels which he
lad taken and examined, letters and newf
bapers, giving accomft of vafl numbers oi
American vessels being taken by the Bi itifh,
with French property on board, and carried
into English ports, where the cargoes have
not onlv been condemned, but in many the
unhappy fugitives from the conflagration of
Cape-Francois, have been stripped ane!
plundered to the last farthing ; luch atro
cious crimes, of which no example is to be
found among the most barbarous people,
could not fail to excite in the fouls of the
officers and crew of the Marseilles, a sen
timent, as natural asit is juft—t'iat of t eta
liation , aad having met with the ship Pre-
(idem, laden with British property, they
thought proper to fend her into Bolton.
But as soon as the ship arrived, the papers
being laid before Citizen Duplaine, Vice-
Consul of the French Republic, it appeared
that this captare was not authorized by the
Treaty fublifting between the United States
>f America, and France : On which inlor
matipn, Capt. L Ecuyer ordered his men
from on board the President, and replaced
Capt. Smith and the crew, who originally
oelonged to her. Such impartial, faithful
k patriotic conduct, exhibits a ftrikingcon
:ralt between the privateers of the French
Republic and thore of Great Britain.
What can be more sublime and at the
ame time more conformable to the feelings
)f humanity,than toree a nation,furroundeiJ
iy a holt of vile despots, who combine tc
tide Heaven-bom Liberty in its infancy, ft
r aithful to her treaties. That nation Cei ■
zaiiily deserves the elteem of all men, wht
ire not infected vvith the corrupt principle!
>{ aristocracy and tyranny : That nat'oi
will certainly triumph over despotism ; foi
jenerofity will give her the palm of victory
It is Mentioned in a late Baltimore paper
as a very wonderful thing, that a fervan
jirf, in the fani'lly of the secretary of th<
treasury, should have recovered from th<
yellow fever,, as well as the secretary am
his wife ; and \vhat is more wrnderful {till
by t!ie very (ame mode of treatment!
Perhaps (fays a correspondent) nobilit;
was never more degraded than in fendinj
out a " Lord" to be governor of one of tin
Bahama islands. There we fee " a Lord'
governor of a herd of pirates and thieves
under royal commiflion : a sure lign tha
nobility is growiilg out of date With tllG ho
;>t'f part of mankind.
TOASTS given at a grand feftiVal o
the French and American citizens of Balti
more oh the a rlt of Sept. instant. i. Tlx
French Republic : may its victories npoi
both elements give her the title of the Savi
our of nations. 3. The United States
may their citizens remain penetrated witl
the eternal TRUTH, that Kings are thi
natural and implacable enemies of fret
nations. 3. The Citizens who fell on th<
Tenth of August, uiide'tjthe walls o
che palace of the lad king of the French
4. The memory of the Americarts whc
vverfe murdered at Lek'ngton by the fatel
ires of George the third. 5* The Natio
nal Convention of France. 6. The Con
Treft, that declared the Independence o;
The United States.7. The French Heroes
who have fallen gloriously in the defence
jf Liberty and Equality : may their exam
ple be followed every where. 8. Ths
American Citizens who have fallen to efta
slifh the independence of their country.
Legislators of all countries, who havt
icen inspired with the sacred love of Li
berty and Equality, jo. The mutual in
ereft that commands a ftri&er alliance be
ween America and France, against the
'(Forts of all the combined tyrants of feu
ape. n . The certainty that the Frencl
ival in courage, patriotilm. and fortitude,
heir brethren on land who hrtve routec
:he innumerablephalanr.es of despots. 12.
That firm fraternal difcipl'ne, which wil
?nfure our success through aU the world.
13. Glory and happlnefs to the friends oi
nankind! 14. Victory and immortalit)
:o the patriots. 15. The treaty of alliance
ind amity between F'ranee and America
nay it be preserved with the loyalty tha
jecomes free nations. 16. The America!
ind French ladies : may they early infpin
:heir children with the love of the law
17. Universal happiness : may individual:
tnd nations a£f with loyalty. 18. Libert)
:y the law : May all sceptres be reduced
:o aihes by the sacred and ditine flame 0]
Liberty !
Mr. WignWl's company of Comedians,
for the new Theatre in this city, were tc
fail from London the 26th of July. The
whole body of them, including musicians.
amounted to fevemyfive.
[foreign]
Canity July 18. The day befo re yester
day, the white flag was displayed on the
walls of Valenciennes; the cannonade
ceased, and a capitulation became the ge
neral talk in camp. What occalioned this
svent is as follows :
General Ctilline requefled permission ol
his Serene Highness the Prince ofCobcnirg.
ro let a pregnant lady,on the point of being
delivered, quit Valenciennes, flie beings
perfori in whom he was interested.
The request was granted, and the com
mandant of Valenciennes only intended,
by hoilting the white flag, to m;:ke tin
cannonade eeafe.that nothing might happei:
to that lady.
She has been sent hither, and is the more
narrowly guarded, as there are 110 apparent
symptoms of pregnancy to be discovered.
Particulari 0/the /JfaJJinatwn of MaraT,
one of the members of the Nationa
Convention, by Charlotte Corde.
On Friday the 12th of July, this womai
sent a letter to Marat in the following
words—" Your civifm mutt make you de
sirous to discover conspirators. I have r
very important conlj'iracy to couimunicats
to you, and th?refore beg that you tirut
hear me at your own house." The next
morning she presented herfelf there, but
not finding him at home. The left another
note conceived in the following "terms. —
" Have you received my letter? It you
have received it, I reft upon you; polite
n<?fs. It is enough that 1 ain unfortunate,
to claim your attention." In the evening
iiie again went to his house, when Marat
ordered His doors to be opened to her. She
ipoke a grea f deal to him about certain
Lonfpirators who had fled to Caen. He
answered her, That they would one day
!ofe their heads upon the fcaffold. At
tliefe words she plunged a knife into his
bosom. Marat had only time to fay, "I
am dying."—His ferrant entered the room
and made an alarm. People ran to his
afiiftance. This infernal Fury wt?n,t out
with audacity. She was flopped, but before
herfeizure bad time enough to have killed
herfelf, had that been her intention ; but
[lie did not. When told she would lose her
life upon the fcaffold, she looked upon the
guards with a malicious smile of mockery,
reckoning upon the fnccefs of the traitor
ous plots of Caen, and doubtless in hopes
to escape puuilhment. In the pockets of
this abominable woman were found 150
livres iii lilver, and 140 in aflignats; a let
ter addreffeei to Marat : a paftyort deli*
vered the Bth of April by the municipality of
Caen, her baptismal certificate, a gold
wat,ch ; a sheath of a knife hanging to her
neck, and a writing in the form ol' an ad
drels to the French people. She is about
25 years of aee. The afl'aflination of Ma
rat was only part of the execution of a.
deep plot that was to take plate the 14th
of July in the evening, with a view ef ef
feiting a counter revolution in Paris on the
annivcrfary of National Liberty.
members of the National Convention were
to be put to death, except those called in
triguers : to annihilate the new Conltiiu
ition, and leave the people deflitute of laws
in order te waste ihemfelves in anarchy.
The admirers of Marat have caused a me
lial to be firnck to his honour, inferibed 011
onefide, "To Marat, the friend of the
people, the destroyer of aristocracy." On
the reverse is the representation, of Pio
genes, with the cap of liberty on his head :
In one hand he hold'a lanthom, and with
the other he assists Marat to attend from
his hiding place, by meansof a trap-door.
The legend confilts of the following dia
logue —[Diogenes] " Friend Sans Culottes!
I have been looking for your arrival this
long time !" [Marat] Mankind perfe
cted Truth; I had 110 other place of re
fuge!" _
Extract ftom the Minutes of the Synod of
Philadelphia, met at York-town, on the
28th day of August, 1793, and continued
by adjournment.
THE Synod of Philadelphia, taking into
their molt serious consideration the very
critical situation of the affairs of these Unit
ed States, at this eventful period ; the
great degree of infenlibility in matters of
religion that has prevailed in all ranks of
men amonglt us, notwithstanding the many
great judgments and deliverances, which,
as a nation, we have heretofore experi
enced ; the prevalence of infidelity, and
the negleit and Oppolitfon dilcovered by
many with regard to the jnftitiitions of
chriltianity, and the mediation of our Lord
and Saviour Jesus Christ taking also into
view,'the alarming ahd iricrealing judg
ments of God that are abroad in the earth,
the convulsions that have taken place in
F.urope, and the probability that our guilty
country may be involved in similar calami
ties unanimously agreei 1 , in appointing
Thursday, the 24th day of Prober next,
to be obfervea as a day of falling and pray
er, by all the churches under their care.
The Synod most earneflly exhort and en
join upon persons ot all ranks in our com
munion, to lay a fide on that day their usual
bulinefs, and unite in humble and earneiV
Inpplicstions to the throne of grace, thro*
oui divine Mediator, that God would im
jrefs the minds of all with such a sense
jf his Majesty, as the great Governor in
:he affairs of men and nations, ahd of their
ibligations to him as their beneficent Pre
erver and Guardian, as (hall lead them W
rlorify HIM in whose hand their breath is,
°nd whose are all their ways; that he would
nfpire our rulers and magiUrates of aH
•anks with a (acred and pointed regard to
lis providence and approbation, and Inch
.vifdom to discern, and such resolution to
nirfue, tlie measures that conduce to the
niblic interest at this critical period, as
nay, under the favour of heaven, secure
:o these states the continuance of the blelf
ngs they enjoy ; —that he would prosper
Lhe labours ot the hulbandman ; an elt the
progress of irreligion and immorality ;
rrant a gracious effufion of the Piv'rtie
Spirit's influences; restore peace to our
frontiers; protetf our commerce;
point all wlio nia"y have deligns Unfavoura
ble to the tranquillity and prosperity «.f
tliefe fta'tes ; and make Us a wife, a pious,
and a happy people.
Publillied by order of the Syno i,
Nathaniel Irwij<, Moderator.
Samuel Waugh, Synod Clerk.
DIFjD, Mr——Fishf.r; fen ot'Mt '
Fisher £f<jt. of this city, JLINES ADDRESSED
To a very Little Man, <who -was fond oj
•walking with a very targe CANE.
NATURE, in all her works, observes
A fit proportion, just and true :
Man only from her great example lwerves ;
In this we instance you.
Who bade you bear this huge Cyclopean
beam,
(Yourfdf an infect at its foot)
Which, if it fell, would end your mortal
dream,
And put your day-light out!
R.val to oaks, no.hedge way shrub we fee;
No dwarf-like bufli with pines is clafs'd:
No branch grows greater than the mothei
tree ;
No shallop wants an admiral's mart.
Goliah's felf (that hugs unwieldy bead)
With such a ftaff had ihiiFin'd his fate—:
This Cane might be your Liberty-Pole, at
'"ast,
Ana streamers wear, or. days of Jlate.
Thus at Honduras, frequent have I seen
Monkies attach'd to Cedars tall:
There chac'd, they climb, to ftjun the
hostile train—
What use to you, who ne'er could climl
at all i
A ftaff like this (from hickory sorest:
come)
'Mongft cudgelling lads might rule thi
roast ;
Might swing the main-gate of the Fe
DER.4L DOME,
Potowmack's future—royal—boall!
Ah, take advice ! this lofty (lick forego—
With cooper's hoop-pole rattier choof.
to range ;
Or, if your pride should deem such cane
too low,
Advance!—and take my pipe-Item it
exchange.
Philadelphia, Sept. 18.
From the (A r . York) Columbian Gazetteer.
THE LILLY OF THE VALLEY.
THE fun's last finking beam was seen,
Dancing upon the distant hills;
The flocks had left the dewy green—
» And foftly climb'd the warb'ling rills
When to enjoy the pensive hour,
I ftray'd along the sorest, flow,
And there beneath a willowy bow'r,
I 'fpyed the Valley's Lilly blow.
Sweet was the scent it shed around ;
Its silvery cups were fteep'd in dew,
But not one flowret near was found-
Damp was the flude in which it grew
Before the nfing of the fun,
I pluck'd an opening rose that morn,
But now its blushing tints were gone,
And al' the tender leaves were torn.
No more I lov'd the beauteous bud,
I cast it, faded, from my bread,
And bending o'er the clovery sod,
I thus the lonely flower addrefs'd :
" Lilly, so fair, why here,alone,
" Dost thou delight thy sweets to spread
" Why lov'ft to blossom all unknown,
" Beneath the willows cold damp shade
" The rujlic eye that roves this way,
" Greets not thy beauties with a smile
" Nor will thy sweets a charm convey
" To the rude heart of boijlerous toil.
" Oh, hadft thou bloom'd in fomeparterre
" Thy leaves had borne a fnowyer hue ;
" And beauty's hand with tender care,
" Had cropt the weeds that round thee
grew.
•' To cultivate thy rich perfume,
" The fun had lent a kindlier ray,
" But all-negleEled dost thou bloom,
" Aad all-negleSed wilt decay!"
I ceas'd—and pity's ready tear
Flow'd fact; when foft as zephyrs play,
A voice, low whispering, met mine ear,
And thus, it sighing feem'd to fay :
*'Whyfhouldft thou wi(h an humble flow'r,
" That loves the silent desert's gloom,
"To fliine the idol of an hour,
" And then to meet a lhameful doom.
" I enry not the lot of those
" Who fleurifh in the gay parterre,
" While F.iere in quiet I repose,
" Nor f\,ve!l'd with pride,-nor funk with
fear.
'The fenfclefs hum of emptypratfe,
" And cruel flattery I resign,
'' Nor alk a more diftinguifli'd place,
" While peaceful solitude is mine.
" For well I know the transient joy
" A flower can give, would (oon be pad,
" Who moll delir'd, would foonell cloy,
" And I be thrown away at lafl!
" See what return yon rose bud meets,
" This morn thou took'lt it from the
item,
" To thee it gave its earliest sweets,
" Bedeck'd with many an orient gem.
'' Awhile it spread its blulhes bland,
" And fried its fragrant odours round ;
" But soon as faded, thy rude hand,
" Ungrateful, call it on the ground.
" Oh, had Hie lov'd to kiss the gale,
" Or drink Aurora's crimson beam
" Within some lhadowy winding vale,
" Or by some rulhing, frothy stream;
" Then had (he \o perfection grown,
" And by no thankless spoiler priz'd,
" Her charms, 'tis true, had r.e'er beei
known,
" But then, they ne'er had been defpie'd
Anna.
For the National Gazette.
The AMERICAN'S PRAYER for
FRANCE.
ETERNAL source of glorious power
And sovereign Lord of boundless space
Deign, Monarch of the Ikies, to Ihower
TlJ'y blessings on the Gallic race !
Great Preiident of Nature's frame,
Th<.u art the only king we own ;
We own thy power, we bless thy name,
And bow before thy heavenly throne.
Thou did'ft exill ere time began,
And thou wilt reign till time's no more
Protector of the Rights of Man,
Fair Freedom's foils thine aid implore
Grant, mighty Ruler of the world,
Tint France may yet enjoy repose,
And not be to deftru&ion hurl'd,
But triumph o'er her hods of foes.
Lord, in her cabinet preside ;
In thee her warriors firmly trail,
In thee her chosen sons confide.
Her heroes brave, her rulers just.
To thee we raise our humble voice,
Thy great and glorious name adore:
Lord, make thy chosen race rejoice
And grant that KINGS may reigr
no more.
•Philadelphia, Sept. 20.
Domejiic Intelligence.
Bofloii, Sept. 12. A certain writer ir
the Centinel has twice presumed to addrefi
:itizen Genet, as fpeakrng the fentimenti
if the " real republicans of Boston." He
las the effrontery to profane the charadlei
3f sthis refpe&able clafa of citizens, and
meanly attempts to Ihroud himfelf undei
heir patronage, to vilify and abuse the
minister of our ally. The real republi
cs'! difuwn the sentiments, and reprobate
the man, who dares insult the French na
tion thro' this medium. Such addreffe!
not speak the minds of the real repub
licans among us, but are effufions of that
rancorous temper which we fee daily ope
rating among the enemies not only to the
freedom of France, but also to the peace,
Kanpinefs, and prosperity of the United
States. Such effufions are the voice oi
toryism, proclaimed by the organs of aris
tocracy, and issuing through corrupted ve
hicles of intelligence. Real republican!
speak a language more decent and refpe£-
able. They conceive that the welfare ol
America cannot be promoted by the nu
merous in lulls which are daily offered tc
the minister of France. They feel an at
tachment to the cause of our ally, and
are aware of the arts and manoeuvres prac
tised by the combined powers of tory refu
gees, Britilh agents, and such like cha
radiers, who infect our country, and whofs
able nee would be cheaply purchased al
millions of pounds flerling. The real Re
publicans are desirous to leave the dispute
(it any fublifts) between the President and
the French Plenipotentiary, to be fettled
by the authority ef the United States in
C. »ngr«fs assembled. They despise the
mode made use of by certain designing per
sons, to injure the reputation of the mi
nister of I'ranee in the opinion of the
American public ; and notwithstanding
their frequent profeffions of friendfhip to
the cause of France,or to ourPrefident, yet
their interference appears solely calculated
to widen tlie breach between these cha
ra&en; and to Art at variance the two
nations. The'real Republicans are anxious
to remain in peace and neutrality : They
deprecate the resentment of Frarce, which
these men appear afliduous to hritig dowr
upon us; knowing that should the com
bined powers succeed in their wicked
measures against that nation, the citizens
of the United- States would soon be furo
moned to attend the funeral of Americar
freedom.
Baltimore, Sept. 14. There are no twc
writers 011 the fubjedt of the contagiuus
licknefs, in Philadelphia, that seem tc
agree with each other —One fays, " f
arose from landing some damaged coffee'
—another fays " from putrid hides"—;
third " from stagnant waters, filth
in the ftreetsand backyatds"—and a/ourtl
will have it " that it is occasioned b;
n P cellars, moving old foundations o
human cxcrements, or by permitting bu
rying grounds, tanneries, and flaugbte)
bouses within the streets and alleys of j
populous town, or even of a country vil
lage.''—When there are Inch a variety ol
opinions on the real cause of this awfu!
calamity, it is difficult to declare the true
cause. If, however, we recoiled that the
fever firit appeared in Water-street, tipor
a due recolledion of all the nuisances thai
ill judged street is fubjeft to, we are o!
op.nion that the mortality has been in :
great degree occasioned by putrid exhala
tions from the docks of the city. It is
well known those docks are the recepta
cles for evety kind of filth, such as, humar
Drdure, dead dogs, cats, &c. &c. thrown
into them every night, to be carried ofi
by the morning's tide, and which Jometima
remain to be exposed to the fun till I or 2
o'clock in the afternoon, which, in the
dog-days, an easterly wind fptinging up.
inuft undoubtedly convey a very infectious
and deleterious body of air thro' the
alleys and other openings, which lead from
the docks into Water-street, which being
very narrow, and little or no conveyance
for the foul air to pass off; the conse
quence has been that immediate inferior
took place on those people whe retidec
in Water-street, and the narrow ilreets ir
its vicinity, and it is fully believed this
dangerous disorder may be traced to fuel
a wharffs of this city an
built, generally, to the very edge of tlx
channel. It is high water, as in other
places on this coast, twice every hours :
whether from thia circumstance, any efflu.
via of infe&ion worth mentioning can arifc
frora the docks, is left to the determination
of all, who choose to fee things as thej
really are. J
To GEORGE WASHINGTON,
President of the United States.
The MEMORIAL and PETITION oj
the Convention oj Mero-Di(lri£l,
(Territory South of the Ohio.)
WE, your memorial ids, being regu
larly chosen and fully authorised
by the citizens of Mero, to represent the
situation of our country, addrtfs you, fir,
amidst dangers which threaten our total
dissolution, without your aid.
We omit to fp»ak of the outrages this
frontier has fuffered from the infoltnce anc
barbarity of the Creeks and Cherokees
ever since the firit eftablilhment of out
settlement of Cumberland.
We rcqueft only to call your attentior
to the lift of the killed and wounded since
the treaty of Holfton, amounting to ont
hundred and seventeen, which we enclose,
This lift proves how lender a tie, upor
these barbarous people are treaties, with
out the restraint of coercion and fear.—
The loss of our property we name not.
What succour has been granted, though
liberal, each day's melancholy experience
(hews to be inadequate to the proteftior
of our lives. The despair of our fellow,
citizens causes a daily increase of popula
tion to the Spanilh government.
Long experience emboldens us humbly
to suggest, that while our hand# are tied,
and the enemy permitted to proceed with
out retaliation, we cannot flatter ourfelve!
with any bounds to our calamities. How
far it may, in general, be expedient to re
concile this enemy with presents and re
wards, is not for us to decide; but wc
cannot help deploring, that, with refpefl
to this country, such treaties appear tc
have an evil tendency.
That our fufferings proceed not from
any known provocation on our fide, wt
appeal to the father of truth and mercy:
—Therefore, in full confidence of your
humanity and jullice t we pray, that we
m-jy be further affiled to ftipport tint
frontier, which in our present iituation is
found to be in the titmoil danger. We fur
ther petition, that to awe our enemies, this
government may be permitted to retaliat*
upon the invaders and aggrelfors, or to de
mand them from their towns, if ihey pur
sue these infuflerable violences : or, in cafe
they refufe to deliver them rip, that we
may have the fan&ion of public authority
to do otufclves jultice ; for we know not,
in our present situation, to what despair
the people may be driven.
DAVID WILSON, Chairman.
THOMAS DONNEL, Clerk.
ALL persons in arrears for this paper,
and post matters and others who may have
received subscription money oil account of
the fame, are requelted to make speedy
remittances. To prevent the dues fuel
ling to an improper amoiint, no papers will
be continued to fubfcribei s after the fir ft
day of November next, who shall then be
indebted more than fix months.—Punctu
ality in fublcribers, is the firft requifue in
undertakings of this nature, and without,
which it is inipoffible that any publication,
depending merely on subscription, can long
exifl.
WAN TED,
IN TWO OR THREE MONTHS,
AN APPRENTICE
REGULAR \APOTHECART,\ '
A Youth not less than fifteen or lixteen
years of age, with a suitable education, anct
good moral character.—For further parti
culars enquire of the Editor. zajwcf
Seat of War,
FOR SALE,
At M. Carey's Store, 118, Mar
ket-street.
A SHEET M -A- P
Of the French, Anftrian and.-Diiteh. .Ne
therlands,
In which the pracrefs of tic present War
mgy be traced.
Price three eighths of a Dollar.
And a M A P of the
Three-Northern Diflritts of France, di
vided into Departments—Price
one fourth of a Dollar.
Maps of the United States :
AIwY publ/c-lplrited gentlemen, poffefled wide
materials tor corref.ing and improving the
maps of the several fcates, will Jay M. Carey
under very particular obligations, by communi
cating them. He is in immediate want of fonne
for New-Jerfev and Delaware j of whish states*
he is now preparing maps.
Guthrie's Geography :
THE subscription for thii work, will be conti
nued open,, at the present rate of twelve dollars,
till the firJl day of November next j after which
• t will be raised to fourteen dollars.
Aujjuft i«*.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold at the refpedtive Rook Stores of
Jofepb Crukjhank and Tbzmas Dobjon, and may
be had at the Printing office, No. 2C9, Mar-
Jcct-Street.———[Priee one eighth of a dollar»\
LETTER S,
tddrefied to the Yeomanry of the
United States:
containing some Observations on Funding
and Bank Sy/iems;
Ev AN AMERICAN FARMER.
Allen tnux/bip, Lavca/lsr coutltf,
JUST PUBLIS HE D,
And to be fold by Thom a s Dob ,on, Wil
liam Young, Robert Campbell,
Mefirs. Rice anil Co. and John M'
Culloch, No. i. North Third-street,
AN EXAMINATION of the Inte pro
ceedings in Congress refpefting the
official conduit of the Secretary of the
Treasury; w i K Observations, Bzc. on the
ipplication of loans from Holl. nd, negoci
ited under the aits of the 4th aud 12th ef
4ugult 1790. —The price of the above
Samphlet is three (Sixteenths of a dollar, or
is 4d. 1-2. April*24. 2a\v tf
*** The author requefls his readers t»
:orr e tt the following ERRATA in the
pamphlet above mentioned Page 5.
trie 11 —2d. paragraph, lor Coalition read
Zallifion. Page 25. line 'I—2d. parag.
nftead of Bank directors' reid "Stock
lolders."
A FEW CO PIES OF THE '
TRANSACTIONS
)f the Society in/lit uted in the Stat; of
New-York, for the promotion of
AGRICULTURE, ARTS, and MANU«
FACTURES,
May be had at this Office.
{Trice half a Dollar.]
PRINTED BY
3HI LD S AND SWA IN E.
IT TRZIft •-PPICE WO; 209, HICK-STRKIT,
HEAR FirTH-STRUT,
'auoiitnti