54. of Vol. ll.]
From t::e {Bvjlon) Columbian Centinel.
nINCE the certainty of war between
i ranee and Great-Britain, party-fpint
has begin to revive among in. a :d tiiofe
vvno were open enemies to American Li
berty, in the late war, are now bawling, tc -
rtv.-.uUy, againtt the glorious revolution
• our magnanimous fr.eni-'s, the French!
A revolution which does honour to the hu
naii A revolution, which has nobly
. erdirown the haughty feat ot regal del
poth'm, leudal tyranny, and heieditary
tlfurpation ; and put under its firm toot
prelatic viUAiNT, benighted super
stition, and the mod degrading ecaefi
a'liccil oppression !—A revolution, which
liuls tair to emancipate the whole world
of man, from the iron yoke ot ignoa-
JINCS, blind BIGOTRY, a.itl the UHV.I hu
m: Hating bondage 1 ai.d on their runts,
toeitabiiihManly FREEDOM, ufeful KNuW -
LEDGE, fair TRUTH, and univerjal BE
NEVoLENCE In the courCe of this revo
lution, it i> however, greatly to be lament
ed, that fume horrid cruellies have been
perpetrated, by lawless and savage mobs,
ami which every friend to true, rational
freedom aud society, mult execrate ; but
which none but ariitocratic and lnonaiclii
al villains will dare to impilteto the French
as a Nation.
With our own eyes, have we teen, and
notu ithftanding the old prejudices, so care
fully inltilled in our minds, in our ta, ir-li
year by our Britifii Mot her-in-Lain, we
were compelled to adnure the uniform de
cency, exemplary good conduct, and bene
volent, gentle manners of the trench, who
were among lis, during, our late struggle
for peace, L i berty, and sAfei y ; and
on the other hand many ot us can liiil re
collect, with indignation, the old brutali
ties, overbearing inlolence, and outrageous
conduct ot the arrogant, impel ions, lurl),
fclfiiji 6'>Hons, while we wereaprovince tc
tiiofe haughty jllanders.
from the faiuplcs ot both nations which
were formerly among u e , we have had a
fair opportunity to judge of each, and I
think truth will juflity us in asserting, that,
from our own observation ol the several
people, cruelty is not the dittinguiftiing cha
racteriitic of the polilhed Nation of France-,
whole people, in general, are asfuperior tc
thole of Britain, as civilized society is tc
a savage life.
One of your late correspondents, Mr.
Russell, would persuade us to meet halj
■way this nation, who ..re now at war with
France ; but, until they h .ve complied
w,th the late treaty of peace, delivered up
to us our frontier polts, from whence the)
derive an immense iur trade, and from
thence aflift the hostile tribes of Indiam
with warlike implements aid fuppjies, toi
the defirurtion of man, of our defencelef
settlers ; and also pay for tl.ofe negroe:
ineir unlit ry nobles ltole from our fouth
ei n brethren, in the late war, and ItriSly
in all things, con.pl) with the treaty, n<
ho nji American will I trust, meet then
half way- They had a right to ibut thcii
N rik American and Wej't India port
agaiult us, and they exercised -hat righi
pre.cy rigoroully. It will not be for thtii
advantage, now they are at war witl
Fra .'i t-,"to keep us any longer out of theft
poi.s j and theretore, doubtlcTs, while w<
are neuter, (as I hope we fit&ll continue
we l-'iall trade terms with them
during this war.
Thole, who are friends to monarch]
anion" us, (of whom are the whole heav;
troop°of aristocrats, the black band of to
ries, tiie filchering gang of fpecnlators, anc
some tew pulpit drummets) pretend to de
plore the fate of the late king of the French
and attempt to blalt, with their venomou:
execration, the \\ hole Gallic Nation. Thai
the unhappy Louis was guilty of Treajon.
, and attempts against the liberties of the
people of France, the National Conven
tion, (by a majority of fix hundred anc
eighty- five, out of seven hundred and
twenty-one) decreed, and from the evi
dence produced against him, I think de
creed jllft 1 y ; but whether the (late of their
nation demanded the immediate punish
ment inflated upon that perjured man, is
what we, at present, cannot properly de
termine : we mult, and ought to wait un
til we can have authentic documents, and
; till! Hate of fa£ts, through some other
medium than the corrupt and polluted
channel of a Brit.lh newspaper, before we
(i,otild finally judge of the expediency and
propriety of this measure. Already
however, we fee addrefles to the National
Convention, pouring in, approving of tils
execution of the Uithlefs king ; of whose
By P. FREN EA U : Publijhcd. Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
gu i lt, I think, we have fufficient proof.
He had Iworn before the people, to flip
port and defend the conltitution of his
country, as altered anil amended : \et he
refufed his function to the decree of the
National Convention intended to banilh
from 1 tarice the rclraitory priests— thofc
pests of the nation, thole arch traitors to
liie civil and religious rights of the people :
He held utreaforable corrcfpondence with
the proscribed ariltocratic tyrants—and he
remitted money to pay his guards who had
deferred to those tyrants, at Coble tz, in
order to invade their country, and fubjeit
the emancipated nation again to his lawiefs
will.—When his palace was forced, a pri
vate cloiet, like the hypocritical I' M
Hutch i NsoN's, was lorn d, fixed in a fe
cretpartof me wall, and, in that c.ofet
were foun I the evidencts of his guilt—his
trea onable conduct and deliglU. There
was a,i iron <loor to this ciofet, the key 01
which was produced and Ihewn him, 011
nis trial; and being alked, whether he
knew-that key ? he equivocated ; he would
neither own or difouH, that the key so
produced, was his key. The penal code of
the trench, ordains DEAih the punilh
itieni for treafm, and the law, like the
deity, is 110 relp.cter of perlons. In the
tafeoi any other than an ahointed Trai
tor, every one would fay, the evidence is
plenary, is fatisfactoi y—iet the law have
its couife, ind Ireely cut oft, from the fo
ciery ne had sworn to protedt, a perjured
traitor ! FRhXMAN.
-MLIUW-®
FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
The Adirefi of Cardinal Zelada, Secretary
of State of the court of Rome, to tie*
Prejident of the French National Con
vetition.
Mr. President,
""pHF. sovereign Pontiff, overwhelmed
with theprofoundell grief, on account
of the two unfortunate events which hap
pened in this capital on the 13th inft. and
which has caused the death of M. dc Baf
feville, charges me tofend you this addref.,
and to beg yon to put it before the Nati
onal Convention. Sharing all the affliction
of his holiness, I have myfelf hardly
flrength enough to conclude this letter, and
to allure you of the 1110 ft refpeftful con
fideration in which I have the honour to be,
Mr. Prcfident,
Your mod humble,
a: d most obedient servant,
(Signed)- CARDINAL ZLLADA.
Pope PIUS THh SIXTH, servant of the
servants of God, to the National Alfem
bly of France,
Rome, January 14, 1793.
Citizen Re/refeutati-ves,
f Deeply affli£ted as we shall be all out
life time with the gre-ateft truth, at the
murder, execrable forever, and impoffibl*:
to forefee, committed in cur capital 011 the
body of our molt honored and most illuf
trious son in Jefiis Christ, the French citi
zen BafTeville, by a monster milled nc
doubt by the completed folly, and worthj
of death ; we have taken the mourning
ufV.al in greatelt calamines, and commenc
ed personally thernoii austere I ait equal t<
our sorrow, and not ceased to beg pardoi
of the supreme being, fu implicating him t<
deign to make known to us the wretch wh<
has rendered himfelf guilty of so great 1
crime.
" Only co.ifultin? onrfelves, obeying thi
firlt impulle of our heart, as likewise th<
duty prescribed to us by religion, humanity
the right of nations, and our perfoual con
lideration of the most high and most puis
sant republic of France we do not loie i
moment to manifeft to her the whole ex
tent of our affliction, Which it is probabh
we fliall not long furvivc ; ai d to intrea
her, with eyes bedewed with the bitteref
tears, not to impute to a whole people, lit
tle enlightened in some refpeit c , weak anc
defenceief»,the crime c.fan individual wor
thy of a thousand deaths.
"To our grief greater than any humai;
expression can make known, we joii
with thefincerity we proiefs in all our ac
tions, the affliction \\ e reel that our old age,
our infirmities, and the distance of places,
do net permit us to go to prove to the wor
thy representatives of the said most ref
peciabie republic of France, our senti
ments filch as we have espriiitd iheaiv.
We therefore charge in a special manner
the most deftl ving citizen, whom we have
known and Uiftinguifhed in the three jour-
SATURDAY, May 4, 1793.
nlei lie made to our capital, to go the in
(tant our extraordinary mtflfenger arrives,
to bow down before the molt refpeftable
National Convention, to intreat them in
our name, not to use againlt a people, a
great part of whom bemoans highly the
murder, which we (hall forever deplore,
the forces which are i.i the power of the
in oft high and raoft p.iill'ant republic of
F} -.iice. nor to exerciie upon them ihe ri
gum which a great ..ndolKnded nation h«*fc
a right to exercise.
" Submiiting oiirfelves, in cafe the mcfl
refpeciable republic should deign, by the
organ of her worthy representatives, to
receive with some regard our prefer.t ad
dress, and to conlider at lealt in her julIice,
in the magnanimity which charactei ifes
her, that the murder which we will be
wail uuring the few days which providence
has referred to us, and in which the au
thor of all truth knows, that neither we
nor our government ha\e taken even tie
lealt indirefl part, fubniitting ourfe\es tc
compensate partly if possible, that too fatal
event; wc hive resolved.
'• I. To fend a prolate of our court,
charged to manifed afrefn all our sorrow
and to claim the happy effects of the $en
erolity of the (aid molt refpeftable repub
lie.
■'2. To inflict thejufteft puaifhment on
the wretch, whom we will not call our lub
jefl, author of this homicide.
" 3. To cause the havock made in the
palaces of the French academy and the
confnl to be reimbursed.
•• 4 To banilh from our capital and ter
ritories all Frenchmen,non-relident beiore
the French revolution, and fufpefted o.
emigration.
" And finally, to grant to other French
individuals, cveiy falety and protection, fu
as we claim, and dare lully and entirely
to hope them in lavour of the said prelate,
■olirfubjcct, on his entering the cry
01 tht French republic when he ihall go tc
fulfil his million before the molt worthy
naiionai convention, for whose happinef;
and that ot the whole republic of France,
we pray, and lhall nut cejle to pray to the
fnpreme beftower of all grace.
By order of his Hoiinefs,
(Signed) CARDINAL ZELADA,
Secretary of Stale."
Paris, March 11. Ihe people here sfl
cach other—Why have not our general;
pnbli ed an official account of the attaii
at Aix-la-Chapel!e ? Why are not the let
ters from the commifliorers in Belgii.n
read in the Convention ? The generals ol
theeucmy have publiflied pompous account,
of the advantages they have gained—whj
do not our miniiiry endeavour to deltfoj
the latal impression which the relations oi
the enemy may have upon the Freud
youth, an impression which mult be very
unfavourable to the recruiting of the ar
my.
We are affiired that the fitting of lafl
night was very interelling to the commit
tees of the Convention. —More than eigh
ty persons wereprefent. Danton and Gen
fui:net let out this morning for Belgium.
The d.("patches lrom Gen. Dumourier art
of the utinclt importance. A very feriou:
.lftion took placeoll ihe 13th,between liruf
fels and Louvain, the details ol which will
probably be laid beiore the Convention to
morrow .
{.eyden, March if. The letters fron:
Cologne of the 4th of March, state the los:
of the French, in theatfion of the iff, tc
he 6.500 men, and 45 pieces of cannon;
the Imperialists had 350 killed, and 25;
wounded. They do not, however, vouch
for the authenticity of these particulars.
The following is said to be a correel
statement of the forces of the combined
powers now acting againfl France on the
Rhine, viz. Under the command of the
I'rince de Saxe Cobourg and general Clair
fayt, 38.000 infantry and 13.000 cavalry ;
prince Flohenloe, 35,000 troops; count
Colloredo, near Manheim, 26.000, general
Beau.ieu, 14.000; general Wurmfer, in
tlve Brifgau, 35,000 ; besides 30,000 Croats
now marching through Germany to the
fame deltination ; making in the whole,
180.500 troops ; which number, the addi
tion of the Prullian armies, and the army
of the en.pire, make above 300,000 effec
tive men. It is also said, that Cuftine's
army is reduced to the last extremity by
iicknefs and want.
lioii le Due, March 9. It is confirmed,
that the French evacuated the country of
Kujk on the 6th, the before which,
the Prince ol Hcflo Darinftadt, comniaii
dant of Grave, had come out with thirty
[Total No. 158.]
horse, todrive away some French huflats.
who wanted 10 make tliemfeives mailers cf
Sluys, bin they retired before the prime
came up with then) ; he. however, took
some waggons ioadtd with eats and hay
defined tor the French troi ps.
Welearn from Beufden, tliat the French
evacuated the lortrefsof Doeverr en Tues
day night, in so much haite, that they
thie\V two pieces of cannon u hieh they
luund there into the water ; that .ort was
then au.iin taken pofctfHoi) ol by our troops
who made a French < nt-poil of it ii.cn
priloners, who had rot tin.ely notic. of
iiie retreat of their countrymen. Prince
Frederick of Orange entered Heiifden with
about 2,000 Anipach troops, which have
tilled that place with military.
We have received verbal acounts from
Bois-le-Duc, that the French re afTem
biing in the neighbourhood 01 Dnft. We
alio learn, that they are forming n auny
on the Hefde, near Breda.
Liege, March 8. The Auftrians made
tliemfeives mailers of this place on the e
veningofthe sth. Ana.ch of the great
bridge having been bruken <iown by the
Frenth, thedukeot Wirtemberg was not
:ible to make his way thither sooner.
'i he Fiinee <1 Saxe Gchourg has
tletuanded from this city 600,000 florins by
way ol present to his army, and all t.ie
tow ns w bieli \v ere so imprudent as to re
vive the French will undergo the fame
fate. Remoiiftrances have be en made to
:he prince on this lubjeft, but he replied
:iiat he could notdepa.t from his demand.
The Hulans have seized fcvcral waggon's
loaded with silver plate, and 45 ounces of
jold plate: taken from the cathedral, have
tieer» in part seized lie r St. Tron. T lie
plate of the chaj ter 01 St. Peter, was luck
ily forgotten.
Lafl Sunday, three French priests, feveri
smigrantsayd tjjree citizens w ere ni; fta
crcdby Patriots.
Frankfort, March 9. Koniilgflein Cur
rendered to the Pruflians yelltrday ; ai d
the late French garrison which occupied
that fortrefs, tonmling of about 440 men
ire arrived in thi city.
Dort, March 15. Intelligence has just
een received from Willianiltadt, that the
garrison made a faliy, with 45 men only 3
that they tpiked three eighteen pounders,
which were in the battery under in..- dyke,
killed 20 Frenchmen,and took r.ii.c pufon
ers. without ioling a fin; )e man.
Hague, March 15. It appears, by recent
accounts received he. e, that 48' pieces of
cannon were taken at Liege, and very
large magazines of hay, corn, ar.d above
40,000 mulKets.
March 1?. Intelligence isjoft received
here, thai the French have railed the fivge
of Williamftadt, evacuated Klundert, : 1 d
retreated tow arris-Antwerp, after letting
tire to the vilkfge of Moerdyk, and to their
own batteries, and leaving some cannon
behind them.
Portjmouth, March 19. The {hips : :he
harbour are tiripped df every 11a ,i e
fleet atSpithead, which to the number of
nine fail of the line, wi.h frigates. Sec. fie
readyforfea on tne firft notice from govt;
ment, which is every hour expected.
The French force in the channel from
the belt information that has heen recei\c<l
conliftsof two three deckers, fix oilier t ipj
of the line, and fix large irigfties, anm ;,.t
which is the Proserpine, of forty guns,
which one of the early intelligence ji ins
afierted to liave been captured some days
ago.
Vienna, March 2. A courier arrived
here yelferday, atfour o'clock in the after
-110011 from Peterlburgh, with the lineal
account, that the empress of Ruflia had ac
ceded to tiie coalition of the p.iweis of
turope, and that a fleet of tc'n mips of the
line are soon to quit tne ports of her ma
jesty, in order to join the Spanish fcjuad, on,
and to act in concert with the Spani.u ds
gain ft France. Count Kafumouil.). miiif-
Iter from Ruflia, iu a conference yesterday
with the vice-chancellor, count Cobenzel,
officially communicated to him this refclu
tion of the empress iiis mitlrefs.
It is aliened, that the chevalier Gr.zotti,
ambafiador from the republic of Venice,
has notified to our court, that the Senate
of Venice had acknowledged France a- a
Republic; and that in confluence, t ey
accepted of a muiiiler from that nation.
That however, according to her
adopted fyOeni, will always observe the
ftriiteft neutrality.
Mitflrukt,' March 3. in the (even days
boua'uardniKiit of this place we have been
fortunate enough not to tote more tl an
four emigrants and about five of the gairifon,♦elides 23 men wounded ; we do net
yet ab olutely know how many burghers
liavc been killed, but we have reason to be
lieve not more thin of the garrison. The
number of damaged houses is great, but not
so much so as might be expc£ted from the
quantity of bombs thrown into the place.
Some country people report the loss of the
enemy to be great. Our prisons are full
of Frenchmen.
Venlo, March 11. The bombardment of
the enemy has considerably damaged our
houses, but less so than at Maellricht,
where more than 1400 have fuffered conli
derably from the liege, which l'eemsto have
aimed more at deftroving the edifices than
taking the place.
Helvoetjluys, March 16. Yeflerday
morning at daybreak, a gunboat got o
ver from the id ind of Over-Flackey. with
a Dutch enlign and forty men, who surpri
zed a battery which the French had erect
ed within piflol (hot of the fort, anil killed
20 of the enemy. —The Dutch then fpikeil
the guns of the battery, and got off with
out the loss-os a man, though the French
line immediately advanced upon them.—
About 4000 French are before this fortrefs,
and not, as has been reported, the whole
army of M. Dumourier, whofehead quar
ters, during his flay, were between Breda
and Williamftadt, from whrnce he c .me
daily to attend the bombardment.
It is universally believed here, thatßruf
fels is re-poflelled by the Auflrians with
out loss.
The fird column of the Hanoverians are
hourly expected to arrive before Haerlem.
Breda is (till in the hands of the French,
and they are fortifying it with additional
ballions.
London, March 23- A letter received
this morning by a refpectablc house in this
city, dates, that h's majefly's.lhip Bedford,
of 74 guns, has been taken by the French.
We hope this intelligence will turn out to
have originated in fume mifapprehenlion,
but ferioui alarms are entertained for her
fafety.
The earl of Mansfield died at Caen Wood,
on the 1 sth March, in the 89th year of his
age. —Lord Stormont succeeds to the title
and estates.
Mr. Hope of Amsterdam, who is now in
London, received a letter yeflerday, which
he conlidered of so much importance as to
transmit it to the m.nifler. It Hated, that
a repoi L had reached Amsterdam, that the
prince de Saxe Cobourg came up with the
French armies between St. Trou and Lou
vain ; engaged them, and gained a com
plete victory; in which the French loss
was ellimatcd at 12,000 men. Their ar
mies were totally routed and dispersed
This news wantsconfirmalion.
[In continuation from our last]
Enumeration of the Extirpations of Man.
Jince the introduction of Fanatacijm.
THE Hebrews were the firft fanatics ir
the world, that we know of. If we
can polfibly give ciedit t® their own aanals.
they alone may dispute with the Spanifl
conquerors of the new world the glory ol
being the greatest deltroyers of mankind.
If we make a calculation of all the infidc
blood which they boaff of having ihed fron:
the famous plagues of Egypt to the time ol
the deltriutioa of Jerusalem, we ma>
without danger of error, effimate the effect!
of this carnage (which continued for 150 c
years) at five millions of lives. Beside:
these, they deflroyed of their own nation,
in obedience to their prophets***********.
[Here our correjpondentproceeds to enu
merate the various victories, defeats, maJJ'a
cres, murders, ire. recorded in the Jcrip■
ture hijtory, as the effects of fanatacijm.
•which f>r obvious reasons we pajs over.—
The numbers, however, at these different pe
riods Jlaughtered,/land thus—2 3CO0 —2 400 c
—42000—150,000, and 2,000,000, making
in the whole, 2,239,000.]
The Jewifli massacre of the Romans ir
the isle of Cyprus, and in the Cyrenaic, cofl
the lives ol 220 000 Romans. The world,
however, which had been so Jong proscri
bed and laid wafle by the Jews, was now
fully avenged. In the capture of Jerusa
lem there perifheu of that nation 1,337,49 c
men. Th revolt of the. Messiah Barcoche
bas was the occasion of 600,000 men losing
their lives by the fwerd or torture.
The perfections which the fynagogut
has undergone from the days of the empe
ror Adrian till our times, that is to fay,
for 1500 years ; without exaggeration,
makes the number of Jews that died of fa
mine and wretchedness, that were hanged,
drowned, burnt, &c. to be 3,c00,c00.
The eflabliflimentof the Mahometan re
ligion, and its propagation by the Caliphs,
by means of fire and sword, cost Europe
and Asia at least 3.0*0,000 of persons.
The massacre of the Manicheesin Persia
the place of the worship of Ariman ant
Oromaz, was the death of 200,000 men.
The massacre of the fame feet in the
Greek empire by an edict of the emperor
Theodore, deprived 100,000 men of cx
iftence.
The schism of the Donatifls, the quarrel
about confubftantiatic-1, the (Mentions of
the Iconodafts (according to Trenchard)
deflroyed 360,800.
Tiie seditions occasioned by priests who
for many ages disputed the pofleffion of the
patriarchal and St. Petet's chair, annihila
ted at lealt 20,000.
The maflacre of St. Brice, at the lowei!
estimation, 50,000.
The crufadea against the Turks, on the
lowell calculations, 2,350,000.
The crusade of the Teutonic knights,
who ravaged checountries bordering on the
Baltic sea, 100,000.
The crHl'ades against the Emperors,
300,000 —The maflacre of the Albigenfes,
100,000 —'I he great western schism 50,000.
he fanatical war of the Huliitcs, occa
lioned by tne council ofCondance, 150,000.
The eltabliihment of Chriltianity in A
merica, which according to Las Cafas, had
occalioned so early as 111 his time the de
ftrucfion of 12,000,000 of Indian natives,
without reckoning those that pcrifhed since
his days trom the lame causes as formerly.
The civil war in Japan, in the lail cen
tury (occalioned by the plots of Catholic
priests) 300,000.
The day of St. Bartholomew, 100,000 —
The maflacre of Marindol and de Cabneres,
18,000 —In the maflacre of Ire.and 200,000
—Betides all these, there have been at least
one million extirpated of the Vaudefe at
different periods ; and Don Louis de Pa
ramo reckoned 100,000 persons that had
ali eady-falieu victims to the inquisition in
1589 j and we may tairly treble the num
ber for the two centuries that have elapfec
lince his time.
The total number, then, of human indi
viduals that have been facrtticed to th<
cruel spirit of fanatadfm, without reckon
ing those who have perilhed of misery, vex
jtion, hunger, wounds, &c. received ir
lying from the vengeance of religious per
secutors, amounts to, »*** —but my hani
rembles while I urite, and my boson
leaves with sighs—Yet I niuft go on ; th<
miferics of ages mult be brought tc
ight, that renovated man may behold whai
us race h is been, what it ltill is ; but whai
t ought not to be in future. The tota
miouiit then of these miserable victims, i
'hirty-three mil/ions, ninety-fine thoujaud
two hundred and ninety perjuns.
Ye base worshippers of despotism ! yi
cruel fanatics,if the recital of so many hor
rors cannot work a change in your degene
rate fouls, go to the field of battle, view
the bleeding victims of ambition, wholi
miseries death has not yet terminated ; re
liett what mult be their ideas at those feri
□us moments, when tortured with agony
but yet retaining the breath of life, the;
are carried in waggon loads from the fielc
of battle to the hospital. View them it
the hospital, w here they are huddled toge
ther ; fee what they undergo in order tc
prelerve a languifliing txiltence ; and if as
this cannot move you, go to the ramparts ;
übferve well thefpringing of the subterra
nean mine, which instantly blows thou
sands into non-exillence; or to those hugt
lliips 011 the ocean, which in the fury of
engaging, allow only a moment between
tiie life of the devoted victims of royal am
bition and the molt excruciating of all
d.aths.
We might lead the mind to many other
I'cenes of horror, but it is time to draw the
veil overfuch sanguinary profpefts. Who
is tie m.n that dares to worlhip despotism,
which is the original cause of all these ex
celfes, or obey the mandates of fanatics who
fublift by the blood of their fellow men !
Lei us repeat to the world what Zoroaster
[aid to the people of the east ;
•' Citizens, Love each other as brothers,
forget injuries ; people, fuller the light of
[cience to (hine upon you ; ye men of wif
:lom, extend the leign of truth to the ends
t>f the world ; men, learn that the fairell
jift of heaven to your Ipecies is Liberty."
The great legislator who appeared at the
commencement of our vulgar era, said, in
etfect, 110 more to men than that we fiiould
iove God more than ourselves, and men as
uurfelves.
When review ing the pages of history, and
endeavouring to discover the crimes of
-liilofophers, I thank God that amongfuch
ss occur, I do not find that they have ever
Itained the earth with the blood of their
fellow men ; on the contrary, I fee them in
;very age and country persecuted by the
:yranny of kings and the fanatacifm of
;riefts ; and all, like Socrates, when drink
ing the poisoned draught, telling the world
that religion does not conlilt in opinions
which mujt be believed, but in precepts of
morality, which are to be practised; that
the end of every public institution is to se
cure an attachment to country ; to render
the father more dear to the son, the wife
to her hulband, and above all to persuade
men that liberty and equality can alone
conltitute the happiness offociety.
Philadelphia, April 25.
To the Freemen of America,
Fellow Citizens,
'"pHIS is an awful crilis, the prefentpe
riod is pregnant with the mod impor
tant events. Freedom and tyranny, dread
ful as contending elements, are rtruggling
for pre-eminence,and tire ifl'uefeemsdoubt
ful; amidthisfcene of desolation, carnage,
and horror, we are as yet permitted to so
lace ourselves under our own vine and
our own figtree; but how long tliis indul
gencewil) be granted is not within the
compass of our calculation to detemninff.
France is fighting the cause of mankind,
and the political happinels or niifery oJ the
world depends upon the iflue ; perhaps 1
would not be wrong in aflerting that even
our political exillence is involved i:i hei
fate. Whatfeeurity hjve we that the fame
combination of tyrants uouid not confede
rate againfl us to exterminate liberty Iron;
the face of the earth ; should France re
lapse into lier ancient despotism, fhouhi
Great Britain, after having contributed t j
the deftru&ion of her liberty, and after ha
ving secured her neutrality, renew her
claim to the United States (and many more
improbable things have happened) with the
forces and treasures of conspiring tyra nts,
to whom are we to look up/or affiltance :
America kindled the flame oi liberty in
France, and tho' it should be fmotherec!
for the present, if not txtinguiflied here,
the fparka may again fall upon tyranny,
and tyrants well know this and may take
means to prevent it ; the fume reasons
(hat would juftify an interference in the
government of Poland, and of France, the
ame motives that would induce such in
terference there would operate with equal
effect here. The argument of force can
unly be answered by fore e, and in such a
contest we ihould be found unequal. Thai
power&not right is the logic of monarchs :
[hat the intereiisof monarchs and the peo
ple are distinct ; that "it is their vilii tc
apprefs every oppolition to their will, at
one conveiTant in the affairs of men wil
deny: if then they have the power to in
terfere in our government, will it not bt
the fame right which they had to interfen
m Poland, and partition that devoted coun
try ? I repeat, my fellow citizens, tha
France is armed in the cause of mankind
and that her revolution is the pivijt 01
which your liberty turns. I will not take
nto view the indire£t means which maj
De used by European tyrants to sap tht
foundation of the edifice of liberty ; tho
corruption is a worm as certain and a:
Jeadly as the Austrian and Pruflian legions.
Corruption renders the king of Great Bri
:ain as absolute as the empeior of Moroc
:o or the grand Signior ! Can yon then ir
t cause which is yours, which is the world':
:>e indifferent fpettators of the ft ruggles o,
France? Can you censure the unavoida
ble excefTes of a gallant nation, heated b\
:he conspiracies of tyrants, and urged bj
:heir robberies to the commission of atti
.vhich it \\ ould deprecate in the abfenct
jf convullion ? can you tamely bear the
■ejoicings of Britons an.ong us, the rtjoi
:;ngs of i'ome of our own citizens, at the de
feats of our gallic brethren ? Shake of
Kiurinfenfibility, arouse from your lethar
gy, and tho* you cannot march armies tc
;he afliitanceof your brethren, at leait con
rince them that you ftel an intcreft i:
;heir cause by your conduct to their enemie
rmong us. and by your affectionate condtK
;o their representatives here, and by the
fxpreffions of joy or forrosv on their viclo
"ies or defeats.
AN OLD SOLDIER.
May 3d, 1793.
PHILADELPHIA.
Saturday, May 4.
Wednesday, being the iftof May, the of
kersof the 4th regiment of Philadelphia
uilitia, in uniform, and wearing the 11a
:ional cockade, dined together at the feai
jfMr. Freeman; at the head of the table
was placed the cap of liberty, bearing the
levices of the French and American flag:
rntwined, furniounted by a dove and olive
iranch : when, after drinking fuccels ti
:he friends of freedom, governor Mifßin
&c. ami tinging a number oi patriotic songs
ind having (pent the day in the utmoftgooc
:heer, they retired.
On Thursday afternoon arrived here the
French frigate L'Anibufcade, from Roch
"ort in France, but lait from the off.ng o<
Jharlefton, where ihe landed M. Genet
he new ambailador from the republic
3n coming oppolite to this city (he fired a
"alute of fifteen guns, which was returnee
by the artillery on Market street wharlf—
The veflels in general along the wharves
lad their colours flying in honour of her
irrival, and an irnmenfe concourse cf
peitators attended to teftify their joy at
:he fight of this firft visit of a iliip of \\ ar
from the free and independent republic oi
France. Th s fine frigate mounts 40 guns
[Thirty 16 pounders and 10 eight poun
ders) and is manned with 300 men and 30
boyc—Her principal officers are, Citizen
Bompard, Captain-—Citizens, Bremen,
Bourneuf, I-epine, Menus, Renel, Lieu
tenants. She is ornamented with many
republican emblems. Her head and fi
gure on the stern havecaps of liberty—the
ore top gallant mast is alio crowned
witn the Liberty Cap. The motto on
:he top armours of the foremaiiis—"Ene
inies of equality, reform or tremble !"—
On the main mast, " Freemen ! behold we
are your friends and brethren"—on the
mizen mast, "We are armed to defend the
rights of man."
By accounts from the south weft ward,
companies of armed Indians are hourly
croling the O'lio into Kentucky, aril other
parts of the United States c.,ft of that r:-
\4ti". The ShavVanefe, tis said, are parti
cularly active in these expeditions, arid are
fupphed with ever necellary for oftenlive
warfare, murder, and plunder, by the
Britiili in Canada.
The governor of Pennfylvartia on the
29th iilt. issued his proclamation exhorting
the people of this commonwealth to ob
lerve Itriiitly the injunctions in tlie procla
mation of the Prclident of the United
States of the 22d. of April, ult, and en
joining all ofiicers of the commonwealth to
ue vigilant in preserving and recommend
ing to all citizens an impartial conducMo
wards the I elligerent powers, &c.—Bo,
on the fame day a tecond proclam on
was ilfued by the governor, prohib ting
ill citizens, or others of this Hate, lrom
waking any expeditions into, or near, the
Indian country north of the Ohio, ti:l the
-efult of the treaty to be held at Lo-.ver
Saadufki on the (it of June next shall be
idly known.
The capture of the French frigate la Fe
licite (as published in molt of our papers)
by a Britiili frigate, and said to be carried
into St Kitts, proves to be wholly without
foundation. The Felicite was iri'Bafleter
•e harbour in Gatdalotipe, on the 4th of
April, the lateil date from thole parts.
Arrived here on Wednesday evening
about fix o'clock the lhip II Coliante, jo
seph Fifcovich, 1 fq. commander belonging
to the republic of Rajuifa, in t'le Cu'.pli of
Venice, of 650 tons burthen," pierced for
42 guns,and carries 22 <isto; {. e left Cadiz
the 10th day oi October la : bound for this
port, which she could not make, after
which ihe bore away ior.Martinico, from
which place (he took her departure the
2d of April. The 11 Coilaute fired thir
teen guns as foou as the dropt her anchor,
in honour of the United States, and was
answered by the prize brig little Sarah.—
The colours exhibited by this ship is a re
presentation of th- pope, with his hook,
;;eys and mitre, 011 a white Mold.
Extra/I of a letter daisd Mcrjeilles,feb. 17.
" Some French veflels difpati !:cd frcm
this place to the United States laii summer,
are returned with wheat or flour, tut the
quantity was so Imall cr trifling lor the
great consumption of this ami other neigh
bouring places, that we are acin. lly in the
greatett need, havingprovillon fcai cely for
two months, for this place only, ar.d no
thing to provide the neighbouring ones,
who cannot obtain Ironi this one cliarge of
w heat or a barrel of flour; prices hr\ e 1 ifen
of courfe—New-I'ork wheat ha» been fold
at 751. to Sol. per charge, hour-5). to Sol.
and 851. per barrel ; none remains un
fold; the firfis ariiva! will obtain jl. to 101.
more, and God knows what price tEey will
offer in two or three months, uol. per
haps 1201. per barrel. —Fortunate they
will be if they find to purchi fe
" In the prefeut circuniltances if ycu re
main neutral, your trade and vtflels will
procure to the United States large benefits;
now t!ie duty on lob,.cco,iu American ves
sels, is reduced, ar.d at a very finall ditter
ence from that imported in French bot
toms. Foreign vcllels may be purchased
by the French —The Americans are allow
ed to trade freely with the French Weft-
Indies—The Frcnch not going this year to
the Newfoundland fiOiery, your Laccalao
will obtain great priccs this fall and next
winter; and I am confident that the prohi
bitive duty imposed on foreign Eaccalao
will be moderated as it ha> been during all
the last war ; your lliips will be the carri
ers of all the belligerent powers; and now
I could freight here fifty .American vellels,
and the fliippers or their ir.turers here
would make a very trilling differ nue be
tween your colours and the Swtdifh or
Danifn ones, on account of your war with
Algiers—thirty dollar* freight per ton only
to go to Philadelphia, ere oiiered to me on
American bottoms.
• * Tobacco is worth from £51- to 751.
per ql. marc taken in the entrej" ; Caro
lina i;!ce 451. per ql. of c;o.b. Lnghih ; Bac
calao will obtain 551. pti 4!- of next
fall. The French armed vellels which will
be in number in the Mediterranean lea,
v\ ill always take under their prutei ; .on, the
American vellels they may meet."
Extract of a letter from Wilmington
(N. C.) dated April 15.
" In regard to France. I hope ten years
lapfeof time, and our cbmmercial connex
ions during that period with another na
tion, have not so far rela: fd our former
rigid repulicanifm, s>s to catife even a tem
porary coldness towards our oid aliy and
1 riend in the day of diftref-- Of tome it
may be justly said, on the prefer.; call for
na ional gratitude, that
Inter eft calls off oil htr ' ■-
And all the oblig'd fiijake cit:d ail the
■vain . .
And I well remember how a nurnrcr in ottr
public councils stood affeiled fnine time
lince on occasion of only a vote ■ congra
tulation to the national n'.ucib; ~
what can w'e expert ol T • a,- who have
been and obstinately coirtimie, »«i*«>cate*
for the doo: tofa 11 firncrie r Sen. t0 being
[hut ? A measure ! . uoi: l«ri v. it:; all
my ideas of liber: >. " 1c" id d.« ! -i° nsome ( from an adjacent filler ftatetoo)
that ought to have been impeached and
expelled the House of the S—te, who vo
ted direttly in oppolition to the inltructi
» oils of their conihtuents, and thereby set
the people at defiance. When I take an
attentive view of mankind, and the pliant
ductility of so many among us ; when I
fee how giddy a poor creature often be
comes tha moment he is placed among the
public fervantsof the nation, I immedi
ately combine in my idra of man, wolf,
fox, and ass, and am half tempted
to with that philosophers, instead of em
ploying the midnight hour for the happi
ness and freedom of their species, would
leave them to those tyrants, who in every
age have laid it down as an axiom, that
man for his own good Ihould be governed
by a rod of iron."
Thr; ugh mi/information we mentioned
in our la!:, that the ftiip Grange had been
difmifitd by the French frigate. It now
appears from authentic accounts, that on
the 25th of April, ihe Grange was lying at
anchor near the Brow'i Shoal in the bay of
£>;•• • :re 1113 fathom water, with api
i«; u.i board, her dilVanoe from the near
el'. : .;d 12 miles, when the Ambuscade
frigate, coming in from lea, made prize
of her in that fituafion. According
tePs Law of Narions, a cannon iliot, or
one league from the coa.t, is part of the
territory of a neutral country, and there
fore within tiiat didance 110 capture is
lawful—and any vellel taken in abay,whofe
entrance may be defended by fortifications,
cannot be coniidered as legal prize : Ac
cording to these rules then, the Bay of
Delaware, except within three miles of it?
coalt. mud be coniidered as high sea.—The
Grange arrived herelafl V.'ednefday after
noon.
The (hip Industry, Caffon, from Havre
de-Grace, wa» drove on'lhore near Lewes
Town, in the hard g ileo 1 Friday April 26.
Ten paflengers were drowned in an at
tempt to reach the fiiore in the loftg-boat.
The sloop Betsey was alfololl in the fame
gale, on Shrewsbury beach, near Sandy-
Hook, in her pafTage from this place to
New-York, with the Tontine Coffee-
Hou "e furniture onboard, and other pro
perty —one person drowned, and the cap
tain much hurt.
Extra" of a letter from Leeds, dated the
yth of March, 1793.
" You would hear by the last packet of
some confiierable failures in London, and
that many more would soon follow—you
will hear of tliem too soon ; we have,
flnce that time, had such a crash among
our country banks, as was never before
experienced or known in any country. —
This has deltoyeit all confidence "whatever
here and in London : So that unless we
received coniiderabU- funis now due to us,
it will not be in our power to fend the
whole of uur orders even to our bejl
friends."
All communications from England agree
that the wanton and impolitic war entered
into by that nation againlt France, is a
war of the king and his couriers aided by
that part of the nation who are influenced
by court favour or terrified by court
threats. The volunteer Iriih are upon
the point of revolt, but whether the Ipiiits
of the Hibernian populace are not too
much broken to attempt any thing great
without flrong external support, is a ques
tion a ihort time will decide.
With the government of Englana
and the landed and monied interest, the
war appears popular ; but the manufactu
ring and commercial interests have expref
fed their disapprobation of it ; a id though
the most violent and forcible means arc
used tofliflc every feiitiinent of revolution
principles, yet the fp'rit of reform, tho'
damped, appears not to be extinct ; and i:
vilible ill fiiapes, which tho' less formida
ble than before, are neverthelef; fufficient
,to excite ahu m and fu.'picion. An invali
-011 oi t'.ie ifl.md is feared ; and to prevent
it, the militia are embodied and line the
coal! oppofue Inince —The {landing force
is daily augmented ; and many indepen
dent corps of volunteers have been railed :
The fleet at Spithead, Feb. 26th, amoun
ted to fifteen fail of the line, belides fri
gates ; and were daily added to ; and a ge
neral Sinprefs to man them had taker
pl ace. V\ edo no: learn that many priva
teers had been fitted out —probably from
the w ant ot men.
•' M. Ternant, who isfucceeded by M.
Genet as minister from the French repub
lic, has received from the executive coun
«- cil of that country the offer of a consider
able rank in their armies. His patriotism
will no doubt prompt him to accept it.—
His military talents promise ufefulnefs to
his country in that line. He was a distin
guished officer in our army during the late
war,and he headed the patriots of Holland
in their last attempt to effect a revolution
in that country. He carries with him the
heft wishes and efteein of a'l those who
knew him on this fide of the water.''
"The Alligator Britifii frigate, Capt.
CofEn. of 28 guns.was spoke with, the 27th
of April, by a veflel that arrived at New-
York on the 2^th.
Among the various reports mentioned in
the letters received from New York, it is
"aid, " That the duke of York is dead of
lis wounds in Holland;" and tlicit Mr.
Governeur Ivlorris, American minilter at
Paris, had been killed in a popular tumult.
But it is probable that neither of these ac
counts is true.
Extract of a letter from Cadiz, March 16.
" This place i: thrown ir.to the greatest
condensation and confufion by an order
which our government has ili'ued for the
immediate removal of all the French, pre
ceded by an attachment of their effeit».—
There are many opulent merchants here
of that unhappy ation, who mult be ru
ined by this measure."
A letter from an American, dated Lon
don, 2d March, 1793, f a y j » £ ' 13t there ere
ireat quantities of American wheal at Lon
don,Briltol, and Liverpool, under the king's
lock and key; all of which might have,
been (hipped with prospect of quick market
and go«d prices in November and Decem
ber last to France—But every cargo at
tempted to be (hipped to France was then,
anil is now Itopped by order of govern
ment ; this mult be a great loss to the A
mericans, and prove fatal to those houses
in England who have it as a security of
debt. He further notices that England is
too powerful a kingdom to lodge grain
for a market, as is evident in the present
.afe.—TheCongrefs ought to get privileges
for that purpose, established at Lisbon.
Hamburgh, Oltend —being states that
Ivould not dare so to u e the Americans—
He further mentions that at piefent the
British will not allow fail cloth to be ex
ported to America and that it is reported
[he British cruisers have got orders to
all American flaps for Fraice with
grain.
Gla/gow March 2, 1793
THE war with France is now entered
nto. —Men by sea and land are railing at
10 allowance ; 45.000 additional ftilors
lave been voted by parliament, the militia
as England called out, amounting to 33,000
lien, 8 new regiments of ftuciblei to be
•aifed in Scotland, about 6,000 men ; 150
lew independent companies have been
•aifed amounting to 7,500 men—300 com
panies of 100 each, to guard the sea coasts
(mounting to 15,000 men and to be able
:o maintain and support these, four milli
ons lterling is to be borrowed—our three
Jer cent ltocks are down at 71, and alrea
ly bankruptcies are begun, and within the
lalt three weeks those in London amount
:o between three a id tour million—there
ire two Welt-India houses failed for im
mense funis, and an American house. Our
manufacturers are discharging their hands
i'ery fait, but the reci uiting service takes
hem up, and engages them for soldiers.—
The banks here are turned now very nice
:o whom they discount—money 4 months
ago could begot at four per cent, upon he
ritable or landed security; now it cannot
»e got under five per cent.
Extract of a letter from a gentleman in
Brittol, to his friend in this City, dated
March 13.
" The present state of this kingdom is
:ruly deplorable ; ouing to the valt quan
itics of paper in circulation hire, and
he infufficiency of specie to redeem it :
I'he bare idea of a war with France be
ore the declaration of it took place, oc
:alioned failures in this city, and London,
.0 the amount of near six millions ; and
hree of the molt eminentmerchants of this
:ity have put an end to their existence, af
:er reduced from aifiuence to beggary
md want. —There have ilfo several banks
topped payment; the Chepftow bank (a
-1 ty in Wales) has flopped; and you cannot
;et ca(h for even a fine guinea note ; and
:liere feemsto be no confidence from man
:o man."
Mr. Pinckney. the ambafTador from the
United States jt the court of London, has,
we learn, officially informed the govern
ment of Great Britain, that in tlie war
low commenced, the United States are
lelirous to observe a (trift neutrality.
This information, we further learn, gave
nuch fatisfaflion to the Englilh nation;
ilid Lord Dorchester was appointed am
jafl'ador from Great Britain to the United
States.
By a vessel arrived in the Chefapeke from
:he Mediterranean we!earn,thattheFrench
quadron under Admiral Trugnet, in those
"eas, had captured a Spanilh 50 gun (hip &
five frigates.
Such a variety of reports, rumours, and
surmises, relative to the affairs of the belli
gerent powers, are retailed in European
prints, that we forbear to take up the rea
ders time or attention, by inferring many !
things of this kind in a paper whose scanty
limits will but barely allow us, as ter doing
proper justice to the affairs of our own
country, to mention in the briefeft manner,
the foreign genuine events of this uncom
monly prolific period.—That our readers,
however, may not remain uninformed of
the molt recent intelligence from Europe,
in addition to that under our foreign heads,
we briefly sum up what came to hand by
the last arrivals, and in general bears marks
of authenticity. Matters were coming
fact to a crifisin Ireland : the northern vo
lunteers were to afi'emble at Londonderry
on the 16th of March ; in consequence of
which notice, the Britifli commanding offi
cer in ortned them, that if fucll meeting
liiould take place, he would formally de
mand a surrender of their arms. The vo
lunteers however replied, "that they Ihould
meet as usual."—l he Britifli had drafted
away nearly the whole of the regiments
composed of Irilh troops, and putforeign
ers in their place. In the north these io
reign troops were 18,000 llrong, besides
great forces in other parts of the illand,
particularly at Dublin. The Aultrian army
011 entering the Netherlands published a
general pardon to all who had been in arms
againlt them in the Brabantine provinces,
bisimperial niajelty had acknowledged the
eldeit brother ot the late king of France as
regent. Ihe French army under Gen.
Dampierre evacuated Aix la Chapelle on
the 20 of March, without loss, except ol
lour cannon, and the imperial troops en
tered it the following day.—On the sth
the Aultrians took polleflion of Cleves —
Bolides these two places, the French had
evacuated Mazyck, Roeimoride, Fort St.
Michael, and raised the liege of Maei'rricht
—Gen. Dumourier leit Bruli'tls for Liege
on the 12th of March, to repair as much as
poliiiile the defeat a body of the French
troops had l'ultained near Aix la Chapelle—
i here was every reaibn to believe that the
French \\ ould be able to retain the country
and c.ty of Liege. It was ascertained, that
in railing the liege of Maeftricht, the French
only lolt 20 inen. Dumourier had written
to the Convention that the French would
iooii be mailers of the Rhine. On the 7th
al March the ( invention declared the re
public at war with Spain, and measures
\iere taking to incrcafe the army near the
>paiiiui line to 100,000 men. Volunteer?
ivere every v here collecting rapidly 111 the
lorthern departments of France; iteviden -
y requiring a new ehort of the nation to
maintain the liberty of the Belgic provin
:es, who had united themselves to France,
igainlt the deipotic troops. The Prullian
commander had intimated to lord Auck
and, Britiih ambaHador in Holland, that
iic army of the Prufiians would not co
jperate with the Britiiii forces lately sent
uto Ho land, under the Duke of York,
.mlefs tngland joined in a:i unlimited con
ederacy for the reiloration of the old
French monarchy, and the other objects of
he great contracting powers, particular
y tiie difinemberment and partition of Po
and—from tliis fait it was ap; rehended
hat England mult soon be eiti.er a free
-cpublic or a despotic monarchy.
New-York, May 1. In the afternoon,
irefterday captain Wray, of the ship Hol
ier less, arrived in this port, in thirty days
rom Hull, and 2j from the Orkneys, he
jrought no papers, but relates an account
jf a severe engagement between General
Dumourier and the Austrian army, on the
[6th and 18th of March, in which it is laid
Jumourier was beaten, with the lofsof be
;ween 11 and P,ooo men, himfelf wound
:d in the thigh, and one general officer kil
ed. The captaid fays this account was
jublillied in the London Gazette, and was
generally believed.
The battle commenced 011 the 16th, and
leld the whole day ; on the 17th there was
1 ceflation, and on the 18th tne AuOrians
igain attacked, having received a reinforc
lientof 12,000 cavalry, which decided the
nattle at the close of tne day, in favour of
he Aultrians, though it appeared in favoui
of the French in the former partot it. The
Captain adds that Dumourier has flill ai'
army of 80,000 men, and has retreatec
further into the Netherlands—that the
Se d of battle was between the Meufe anc
Breda—that the French flill held Breda
but it was a queltion whether the retrea
ol' the French garrison there would not bt
cut off. Our informant could not teil how
many men the Aultrians 1011, nor w ho com
manded them, but it is presumed that i
was Gen. Clairfait.
On Tuesday afternoon last, were inter
red in the family vault in Chrill Cliurcl
yard, the remains of John CoXE,Efquire
aged 61.
of this refpeftable citizen it may be tru
ly laid, that in every pursuit and llatioi
of his life, he was active, intelligent anc
just. All his enterprises, both public anc
j ! ivate, were marked with vigour and de
cilion of mind. In domestic life he wa:
alieitionate—in friendlhip ardent and fin
cere —in bcnevoleuce unbounded. The
dilorder which put an end to his life, was
painful and tedious, but it fcrved to evince
that the pajfive, were not furpafl'ed by the
atSive qualities ot his mind. He was pa
tient and religned, and finally yielded his
foul into the hands of his Creator, in full
alluranceof entering upon the poffeliion of
that life and immortality which were
brought to light by the gospel.
To the EDITOR of the NATIONAL
GAZETTE,
T HAVE been searching with indefatiga
ble industry for these many years for an
hone/}and literal Englijlin-art. Notuith
flauding all my labour, till this day I have
not been able tofind such a character, either
in propria fer/ona, or as pourtrayed in his
writings. Thephoenornenon, however, this
age of wonders has at length brought forth,
and with the highest fatistaftion I transmit
you the evidence on which the discovery
rests, aware, that unless supported by the
cieareftand molt polit.ve proof, such a de
parture from the laws of nature would be
disbelieved by many, and be doubted by all.
Extract from Mr. ErfUue's Defence of
Mr. Paine.
After animadi erting on the uniform
condnctof Mr. Paine, and the inconlilten
cy of Mr. Burke, and taking a retrolpec
tive view of the lentiments of Mr. Burke
during the American war, so contradictory
to thole which he now avows, Mr. Erlkine
proceeds : —
" Gentlemen—ln that great and cala
mitous conflict, Mr. Burke and Mr. Paine
iought in the fame field of reason together,
but with different fucctfles. Mr. Burke
("poke to a parliament in England, that had
no ears but for founds that flattered its Cor«
ruptions. Mr. Paine, on the ocher hand,
[poke to a people—reasoned with them,
that they wcrj bound by no fubjeftion to
any sovereignty, further than their own
benefits connetfed them; and by these
powerful arguments prepared the minds
Df the American people for that glorious,
ii'Jt, smMiappy revolution.
" Gentlemen—l have a right to dillin
guilhit by that appellation, btiaufe I aver,
that at this moment, there is as sacred a
regard to property —as inviolable a It. uri.
ty to all the rights of ind.viduaE—lowc r
raxes—fewer grievances—less to deplore
andmore to admire, in the constitution o
America, than that of any .other coui try
under heaven. I wilh indeed, to
uur own, but I canr.ot even do that, tiif it
(hall be purged of those alufes which, tho'
they obfeure and deform the furface, have
lot as yet (thank Cod) delii oyed the vital
'arts." Lc.eSignum!
' ■ A
To the Pub ic
yjHF.REAS in the present lituation of
French affairs in Europe, it is to be
rtifhed that every friend to mankind
•vould interest himfelf in lecouding the ef
orts of the defenders ol liberty, the armed
;itizens and soldiers of the French republic.
To advance this benevolent delign as
mich as pollible. the PATRIOTIC
'RENCH SOCIETY of the friends of
iberty and equality in Philadelphia, ani
mated at all tir is by thole liberal fenti
imcnts which laid the foundation of their
"ociety, did at their meeting of the 30th
jf April lull, resolve to open a fiibfcnpti
in w th a > iew to purchase flour and other
jrovifions, to be ottered as a donation, and
enr to the republic of France.
In confec[uence of the preceding refo
iation, the society. have depnfited in the
lands of the Editor ot the National Ga
tette,No2o9 Market-street, at Mr Bache's
irinting 1 ffice, Mr Claypoole's printing of
ice, and at the City 1 aver", a fubfcripti
ju book signed by the Prtfident and Se
ctary, sealed 0.1 every Iheet with the So
iety's seal, in wh.ch (hall be entered the
ree gift of every perlon who willies to
contribute for this purpose.
The different printers in the United
States, friends to mankind, are requef
tedtoinfert the above invitation in iheir
papers and to encourage the friends of
France in the Union, to open fubferiptions
upon similar plans in their refpettive taies
and towns, trie proceeds of which, as loon
as filled, to be remitted into the common
[lock, in some central place, which fliall be
fixed as soon as a certain number of sub
scribers have handed in their names.
By order of the so. it ly.
P. BARRI! RE, President.
A C. DU PLAiNE, Sec.
intimation"
RefpeEling James Fairweather,fometime in
thefourth brigade oj Britijh artillery.
DAVID FAIRWEATHER, late letdhnin
in the PJcalance ot Edinburgh, Noitn b: i
am, having died in the month ot November iait,
the aforelaid James Fairweather, his only ion,
Succeeds to his father's heritable and perf.-nal es
tate, which is confideiable. His relations are
anxious il he be alive, that he fli uid immediately
return to Edinburgh, and on applying to Mr,
William Whyte, writer, in Charles street, Edin
burgh, he will be put in pofleiiion of his father's
ettate. The aforefaid James Fairweather, Jt is
Relieved, was left at Mew-York, in Norrh Ame
rica when the Britilh army evacuated that city.
It is reqiefted that any perlon who has fetn or
heard ol him lince, or knows cf his pieLnt reft
dence, or of his death, will transmit any intelli
gence concerning him to Mr. Robert Cam; bell,
1 ookieiler in Philadelphia, or Mr. Samut-1 Camp
bell, boukleller, in New-York. Any Ihipmwftef
r oiher perfor, who will bfing the fa d James
Fairweather to Britain, or advance him morty for
hat purpose, will be repaid by M Ifrs. bell,
r Mi. Whyte. If the said J -nits Fa.rweather b*
Jead, his children if he left any, are entitled to the
il ie laid lucceilion, on proving their propinquity.
May 4. 3 t
STRAY MARE.
CAME to the plantation of Wiiliam WilJiam
fon, late of Little Britain townfllip, Lan
aUe«- county, on tne 10th day of Jail April, 4
itn-ill Bay Mare, a natural trottf r a about 13 ha; ds
hijjh'j (he was then aJvcrtifed and since appraised.
The owner is once moie cefired to come, prove
property, pay clt&igct, and take her a way, ot he •
wile lhe will be l« *Id in two months from this
date, by MARGARJET WILLIAMSON.
1 March 25, 1755. jt 2*wAMERICAN ADVICES.
RICHMOND, April 24.
THERE are chara&ers in this city,
who during the day of peace, were
permitted to snarl and obtrude their im
pertinent observations on the policy an l
politics of this country —Europe is now in
tumult—Tyrants and their llaves are in
league to destroy the liberty of mankind.
The public mind is occupied, and muil en
gage in favour of republicanism. Tht
Iriends of liberty mud aid ihe brave an'
noble efforts of our brcthien of France, i!
there are any who adhere to the Britift:
fyftsms an i politics, they will be permit'
ted to retire wi h their effedls to any othei
quarter ; but they will not be permitted tc
emit their venom againll the political ob
je£is us a people, whose deliruttion will in
volve America in ruin and desolation.
If the government does not interfere
and fay with botdne s, that fuc'n and such
chara&ers mull leave America, the people
will adt with decision, and brftow on form
of them, a livery, Inch as wa- sometime!
given in the years 1775 and 1776.
A letter from a gentleman in Londonderry
dated the 18th Mar.h, 1793.
" It is scarcely pofiible to convey to yoi
an adequate idea of the present state o
Europe. All its kings, all its rriells, an
combined against the new republic o
France, and many hundred thousand o
men are now in arms, to restore kingh
po-ver, and the influence of the church ii
that coun'ry. None of the hostile powert
have entered into this war with greatei
zeal and acrimony than England, the peo
pie whereof, at any rate a Rreat majority
of them, are as keen for exterminating li
berty in France, as they were formerly for
subjugating the thirteen American Colo
nies. The Scotch however are not lo
unanimous upon thisoccaCon as they were
then : a great number in bcotland being
againlt the war As to Ireland, I think I
may fafeiy lay, that two thirds of the peo
ple, in their present discontented state of
mind, are conpletely avcrfe to the exifling
fyllem of Englilh politics. As to the
French themselves if they were unanimous
at home, they might be a match for all
their enemies. Two of their generals,
Dumourier and CuHine, are men of won
derful fortune and ability : But the ques
tionable execution of their king, which has
estranged many moderate men from their
cause, and tht horrible diflentions in Paris,
conducted or excited by the execrablt fac
tion of Roberfpierre and Ma r at, have cauf
ed a doubt, at lealt a fear, that the really
virtuous among them are too few and too
weak to carry their upright intentions into
effeift. In the mean time the government
of Ire'and is carrying a high and strong
hand in conjusdlion with the English mi
ncer. A man dare not speak, nor scarcely
think, for fear of the secret committee of
the lords who have renewed all the arbi
trary proceedings of the Star Chamber.
Every man, or bods of men, who presume
to talk of liberty, or a reform of a corrupt
conftitu.ion in church and state, are pro
secute : and persecuted, fined or confined,
or both, after a very summary trial ; and
the lrifh Volunteers, once the glory and
the boast of theircountr*, are now openly
calumniated and proscribed."
THE attempts of some to persuade us that
the liberty and indep n ,ence of \ merica
is due to thv* king of France, and not to the
French nation, is so great a perversion of
reason and jullice that we ar..* under no ap
prehenlions for its consequences. They
m<iy again and again attempt it ; but we
truit they will a, T ain and as often fail. The
people of Americ.i know the lources from
which the power of the king of France to
afiift them in the day of their dlftrefs was
drawn—they know it to have been from
the French nation, notwithstanding the
denial of thit position by some—they
know that it was men of the French nation
who fought and bled for them—and that it
was money raised by the fvveat of French
men's brows which was loaned to them at
so critical a season, as that our present free
dom and independence it. a great meafuie,
if not entirely, depended on it. And (hall
we now be base enough to fay, that be
cause the vehicle through which this aflif
tance was received does not now exilt, the
debt we owe to the brave I and mod Rene
rous nation on car h, ;s cancelled—No—
forbid it every principle of justice, of ho
nor, of gratitude—America (corns it.
If France be conquered, there can be
no doubt but the species of government
iinpofed upon that country will ba arbi
trary monarchy. That form of govern
ment extends itfelf 6f course to the seve
ral poflefiions of such governments in
America, which mud become hostile tc
the free and independent spirit of the in
habitants of the United States—! he re
fult would be war—and —a sim Lr com
bination against America of those ver)
powers, including France, to fay, com<
let lis divide the United States amongll us,
we will have no republican governments. —
Need we (ay more on this head than tc
instance the partition of Poland ?—
Of France indeed we fliouid defervi
such treatment tor our base and inconfif
tent ingratitude.
Those who pretend, in this country,
such extraordinary regret for the down
fall of despotism in France, in the perfor
as the king, and are wishing to excite the
ri-fentment of the United States against
France on that account, have not so much
regard for his m mory, a3 they wish tc
make use of his name to ess ft the views
of a party in the United States, to wh m
they are generally contemptible tools.
They aie speculators in the British funds
as well as probably in those of America,
and want the union of the two countries
(contrary to the interests of America) to
add to the security of thqir property, es
pecially that in B;tain, which perhaps
a French invasion, foolifhly provoked by
the British government, will reduce to a
cypher.
We are warranted in this opinion by
the conduct of certain fuf t icious charac
ters, who fear the reading of an indepen
dent public paper, left they ftioula meet
with any thing therein in favour of re>
publicanifm, so grating to their monarchi
cal feelings. Some of these we know tc
have been speculating in our public debt,
~nd who, per ; ps, not knowing the peoph
of America, (being fu jedts of Britain;
apprehend the government too much in
their power for tlieir fafety. They therefore
want our government to be m-.deled as
ter the British fafhion.— But while out
country can boalt of a Jefferfon, a Madi
son, and a Giles, and many other equally
valuable patriots, the profefTors of mo
narchical principles will be obliged to a
bandon her peaceful shores, and republi
canism will prevail with us and our poste
rity till time (hall cease.
THE days of religious intolerance and
priest craft are gone by ; and to them
have iucceeded a happy era, in which eve
ry man can pay homage to his maker, in
any manner his heart shall dictate to be
right. But let not those who believe in
the efTentia ity of particular forms and
ceremonies, from hence take oceafion to
inveigh against the times, and to date the
decline of piety, virtue, and morality. It
is a mistaken idea that enlightened men are
to be frightened into their duty. Eveiy
rational mind, when it contemplates the
harmony of nature's works, and fees and
feels, the parental care which is (hewn by
the creator over all the works of his hand
mujl, '\l cannot avoid it, mujl feel the emo
tions of lively gratitude and adoration ; and
these are all that religious inllitutions
ought to inculcate. The detufions of an
tiquity vanishing, mankind will fee the
absurdity of falling out by the way, about
modes nf jaith, and forms of -worship ; and
as the principles of universal fraternity ex
tend, the fintiment* of a late liberal
preacher mill obtain celebrity ; " 1 would
not fays he, persecute even the atheist, I
think he has a right to toleration, and,
for my own part, I pity him, for he wants
the consolations which I enjoy.
" I would support the sublime domes
dedicated to the worship of Immanue/, but
I would not destroy a beautiful Pantheon-
I wish to fee riling in the neighbourh >od
of a Christian meeting house, the minaret
of a Turhijh mosque, a Chintft pagoda, a
JewiJb fynagoguc, with a Temple of the
Sun, if any Persian is to be found in this
country to worship the God of his idola
try The sole business of government
is to take care that they do not perfe
cnte one another, for maukind in all ages,
and of all defcript ions are the fame."—
These are (entiments worthy the enligh
tened period of 1793.
Extract of a letter from Edinburgh, da
ted Jan. 25.
" Your remarks on the French p'.-li
tics coincide with my o«'n ideas. The
comparison you draw between the happi
nefsand consequence of an American far
mer, and one in this country, is injeed
striking, and I doubt not, as you fay, that
if the fadts were publilhed and known
here, the emigration would rapidly en
creafc, to such a land of enjoyment. But
my dear friend, to speak lerioufly, to such
a length are things going here that if I had
published such a letter as yours, which in
peaceable times would have doi:e no harm,
the printer and his author, if he could be
found, would be certain in a few days after
to receive an indictment for sedition, and
perhaps fine and imprisonment would fol
low ; but trials are now become frequent,
and a man is scarcely fafe in writing to
his friend. The drinking of toads, even
In intoxication, has been found fufficient
to condemn, where they have any tenden
cy to liberty or reformation."
METEOROLOGICAL OiISE RVAIIONS..
April 1793*
D. H >Bar. Tier. W.nd. Weather*
Tuesday, 23. 6 30. it 42 N.NE. Fair,
3 3°- 63 > W. do.
Wednejday, 24. # 30 5 44 aim jfair.
3 30. c 08 do : do.
Thursday, 25. fc 29. c -a.m. Clout y.
"• 20. 8. 65 ! do.
Friday, 2b. 6 19. S 53 E. \C.ouay,
; <' 57 Rain.
Saturday, 27. 4-, N. £ Raitl.
3 29 46 do
Sunday, zb. c 3c. c 44 N. E- Ram.
3 30, 1 54 do. Stortny
Monday i 29. t 30. c t"air t
3 3°- 3 59 I do. A
PRICE current.
\ Dollars. Cents.
/A.HES, pot per ton i2od/»i2sd
pearl ditto 134 d to i4od
Bacon, flitches per lb Bto 9c
(houlders do yc
Beef, Boston per barrel 12c)
Country do to 1 jd
Beer, American in bottles
including buttles per doz. id 40c
ditto per barrel 4d 67c
Bees wax per lb 26c 28c
Brandy, Coniac per gal 90c 100 c
common do 80c to Bjc
Butter in kegs per lb 12c 15c
Cheese, Country per lb 8c 13c
Englilh it) c
Chocolate ,8c 2 oc
Coal per bitfhel 24c 33c
Codfilh per cwt 3d 33c
Coffee per lb 12c 17c
Copperas per cwt id 67c
Cordage, American per cwt -ji\ 67c 8d
Cotton per lb 26c 38c
Flax per lb j ic 12c
Fiaxfeed per bu(h. 90c
Flour fiiperfine per barrel 6d 25c
common 5d 67c
Bur-midd!ing:, bell 4d 47c
Meal Indian 3d 13c
Rye, do 3d 13c
Gin, Holland per cafe 4d 70c
per gallon 80c 90c
Ginseng 20c 24c
Gunpowder, Fine glazed per qr c 4d
Grain, Barley per bulhel id 3c
Bed shelled per bulhel 2d 67c
Buckwheat per bushel 40c
Indian corn 60c
Jersey, do 631
Oats 25c
Rye 603
Wheat id 7c to id 25c
Hams per lb 9cto 10c
Hemp, imported per ton !20di46d67c
American per lb 4c 5c
Hides, raw per lb 9c 11c
Hops 21'.
Hoiey per lb 8c
Indigo, Carolina per lb id id ioc
French id 20c id 53c
Iron, Bar per ton 84<!
Cartings per cwt 3d 4d
Nail-rods per ton io6d 67c
Pig d 2 41]
Sheet 173 33c
Irons, fad 133 d 33c
Lard hogs per lb 10c 1 ic
Leather, foal per lb 17c 20c
Myr'lewax per lb 12c.
Molafles per gallon 44c 47c
Milliard, flour, in bot. per doz. id 20c
second qualicy, per doz. 87c
Nails, 8d lod i2d and 2od per lb. 10c
Oil, Linseed per gallon 63c
Olive 87c
per cafe 2d 50c
Pepper per lb 38c
Pimento 19c
Pitch per bbl id 73c 2d
Porter per calk jd 33c
London per doz id toe
Amer. bot. inciu. id 60c
Pork, Burlington, per bbl 13d 33c
Lower county i;d
Carolina 9d
Rice per cwt 3d
Rum, Antingua per gal id
Barbadoes 87c
Country, N. E. 62c
Jamaica id 12c
Saltpetre per cwt I4d 33c
Sait, Allum, per bufn 33c
Cadiz 25c
Lisbon 27c
Liverpool 33c
Snakeroot per lb 20c 42c
Snuff, per doz. but. 4d jd 6oz
peril, 33c 40C
Soap, Brown per lb 6c
Wh.se 8c
Siarth per lb 7c
>ugar, Bavannali, white, per lb 17c 18c
I Brown nc 12c
Mulcovado per cwt 13d ijd
[Lump per lb 24c
I Loaf, single rc fined, 24c
double diuto 33c
Tallow, refined, per lb gc
Par, New-Jersey 24 gal per bbl id
Carolina, 32 gal 2d
Tea, Hyson per lb 93c id 28c
Souchong 50c 93c
Bohea 33c 36c
Tobacco, James River, best 4d 33c
inferior 3d 33c
Old 4<l 67c
Rappahannock 3d 33c
Coloured Maryland jd 33c 8d
Dark 2d 40c
Long-leaf 2d 40c
EalVern-fhore 2d 23c
Carolina, new 2d 7c 3d
Old 3d 3 : 5 C
Turpentine per bb* 2d 35c
Wine. Madeira, p. P. ij6d 2^''d
Lilbon laod i«6d
Tentriffe per gal 67c
Sherry 90c to id cot.
NEW BOOKS.
ROBERT CAMPBELL,
No. 54, South Second ijtreetj
Has received bv the Shin George Barclay
A large ajfortment of BOOKS,
Among which are,
Viner's Abridgment of Law and Equity, iz
vols.
N. B. Subfcriptiom are received fo * the above
work at 4 Dollars per Volume, 4 Volumes 10 iI be
received every fix months till the work is
ivhiih will bein the course of eighteen months*
Croke's Reports, 4 vols.
Lord Raymond's Reports, 3 vols.
Vattel's Law of Nations
Comyn's Divert, 6 vols
Gufchries Geography, a new edition in 4 to,
with elegant coloured maps.
Buyer's French and English DifV.onary in 4 &
8 vo.
Hume's History of England, 55 vols—Same
>jok with Smollet's continuation, 13 vols, ele
gantly gijt.
Mofheim's Ecclesiastical History,6 vols.
Gibbon's Roman 12 vols, gilt or
>Uin
Necker on Executive Power, 2 vols.
Hiltory of ancient Europe, 2 vols
Lavacer # on Physiognomy abridged
Large Family Bible with elegant cuts.
Chapcail's Chemistry, 3 vols
Munro's do. 4 vols.
Underw.odon Children, 2 vols.
Clarke on the diseases common in long voja
jes, 2 vols.
- on Fevers,
Metherby's new Medical Dictionary.
Gardner on the Gout.
P tt's Chirurgical Warks, 3 vols.
Nicholfon's Chemistry.
Lee on Botany.
White on the diseases of Lying-in Women,
fee. &c.
R. C. Will receive by the arrival of the
irft veiTels from Dublin and Glasgow, a large ad
iition to his present extensive afioriraent of booka
imongit which will be copies of all the new pub
lications of merit.
April 13. law. t:f.
I Have claims to about two hundred and
fifty thoulaiju acres of LAND in the i*ate of
Kentuckey, in different parts cf that country,
"ome of which I know to be equal to any ; all
wh ch I am inclined to difpofc of, either bj
entire sale, or by admitting one, or two partners,
;o whom the agency on the whole will be com
mitted.
One fourth of the contra# will be required in
Taad, either in cash, merchandise, or such aflTets
is may be converted to a&ive ule, the rcfioue
nay be apportioned in convenient instalments.
The purchasers to give fecuritj, on the land,
)r otherways,as suits them.
Knowing that there is a prejudice against the
irles of land in that Hate, which is more general
han just, lam willing to stipulate iu the con
raft, that a discount, or dedu&ion, lhali be
nade, where any land may be loft, by ieafon of a
lefe&ive til;le.
Any person inclining to such a pcrchafe, is re
[ceiled to write to me by pott, in answer to
vhom, more particular information will be given.
HENRY BANKS.
Richmond March 20, 1793. lawtf.
Department of State, to wit.
NOTICE is hereby given, to perfonsin
terefted in the property or the proceed
ngs of Claudius Paul Ragu.ect, a citizen of
Pennsylvania, lately deceased at Bordeaux,
n France, thai on application at the office
]f the Secretary of State, they may receive
nformation relative thereto, as tranfmit
:ed by Mr. Fenwick, Confulfor the United
states at Bordeaux.
GEO. TAYLOR, jun. Chief Ck.
Philadelphia, April 3c, 1793-
PR.INTEB B Y
CHI LD S AND SWAINE.
AT THElfc OFFICE NO. 200, B 1 OW-ST*EST>
NEAR sIFT H■ 5 'i' 11 5. El\
r H ' * A V I JL » H ) A «