By P. FRE NBA U: (at No. 209, Market Street) PMijktd Wednesdays and Saturdays, [Three Dollars per annum.]
Numb, ioi of Vol. ll.] WEDNESDAY, October 16, 1793.
For the National Gazettß.
T'j :h: Inhabitants o/Phu.adelphia.
Fault make a mock fit fi'i."
Prov. cii. 14. v. 9.
3/y Fe.llnvj Citir,et;s,
THA T Sin is tlie cause of our prrfem
distress, is evident from the word o!
God. Fro » ills earliest ages »f time,
dokvn to t!i? prefsnt day, (In has caufcd the
overthr j\v of nation and kingdoms. Sin
lias 'brought famine, sword, pe'.lilence,
earth-quake i, iid terrible florins upon,
tli 'cr.lJ t of men, and f.vept t[iem from
the fa.:e of the eart.i by thoufamis. If we
fo.io .v the evil ways of p ill ages, r .ve may
ex-K \ the Great Rein; will visit lis in like
man.er. We have been highly favored,
as a people. fh. Lord has given us of
the fruits of the earth, ill abundance, for
onrfop'-ort : he has delivered us from the
oppfe'iion of a foreign nation, and from
the t vaiiat'ons and horrors of war. What
reru 1, ii ive we nude ? Few tit inks for
th bie lings and cemf irts of Ide : the
bravi officer. the b'ld Joldier, receives »sll
th-»p..:*.V if our deliverance. The au
thority <>r God is disregarded ; his law*
are trampl-d under foot; and now the
offended Majelty of h-aven is vifitmgus
for our traalgrellioris, which are great in
deed A few of tiiem I lhall briefly men
tion, which have in times palt brought
down the wrath of God upon mankind.
And firl-t, and molt |)articnlar, is the lin
of Sabbath-breaking. In Exodus, ch. 31,
v. 14, the Lord commands, faying, " Ye
IHal! k;up holy the Sabbath any, therefore,
far :t i: h»>y unto \au: every one th.it de
filith it, (halt surely be put to death, for
wh fnever dieth any work therein, thatjoul
Jh'i'l he cut off from among his people."—
Now, arc we not guilty in this refpeft !—
Only let us take a view of the conduit of
toe inhabitants of Philadelphia. There are
thousands that pay not even an external
regard to the Day. Our new market was
crowded on every Sabbath morning with
fellers and buyers. Many (hop-keepers
Were there too, felling as 011 other days of
the week. Others make this sacred day a
day of labour. Whole families reserve
the Snbbwh for the common duties of
houfe-worlc, according to a new fafhion in
troduced amongst us. The day is also
prophaned to the vile purposes of, card
playing,and pUyingon muficalinflrumerits.
Thousands take their pleasure 011 this day,
fame in boats on the river, end others ri
ding out in carriages to country places.
The commons arc ipread over with people
walking from one place to another. Those
of the (irft ra'ik and account in tne city
are frequently seen passing the day in pub
lic houses, talking about the times, and
to hear news.
In the winter season, liorfes and sleigh.<
are seen (banding from morning to night
and to midnight, 011 the Sabbath, to carr)
;people through the city for small funis
Hundreds, at the fame fealon, spend th<
Day i i fkiiting upon the ice. In fa£t, wt
have hardly le)t room for the lavage, un
tutored Indian to go beyond us in trans
gression ! —To what a height has wicked
ness arisen among 11s I The minds of manj
people are so led away with the invention;
of the grand enemy of fouls, that thej
hardly know what the Omnipotent Creatoi
requires of them. Many of the citizen;
have voted for, and the remainder have
permitted a synagogue for Satan to be
ere£ted in our city, to debauch andcorrupl
the minds of the people. How were they
deluded that advanced large funis of mo
ney—they that fold the ground whereon
to raise this fynagogue —they that wrought
at its interior decorations, and that too on
the Sabbath day I—Our rulers would have
been ailive in putting a stop to these things,
if they had been men that really feared
God, and were a terror to evil doers. But
at this moment, for any care of theirs,
wickedness would be fuffered to go on,
and that by authority, were it not that the
Almighty has interrupted it by viiiting us
with the deadly pedilence.
Many plead for these innocent aniufe
ments (as they call them) and fay that a
good Play is edifyi«g. But the word of
God declares they aie fools, and that so
much of our time as is not spent in the
service of God, is spent in the fervic* of
the devil ; and that for every idle word
that men (hall speak, they (hall give an ac
count in the day of judgment.
To the aforementioned lins msy be ad
ded, the (ins of extortion, oppression, pride,
tr.hojpitality, aid injujlice, that prevail in
our city.—Ye landlords 1 how many of
tiic poor and uiibefrjeiided part of our ci
tizens have groawed beneath the burden of
a heavy rent—so heavy, indeed, tli3t the
(canty rewards of severe and unremitted
labour, have been totally swallowed lip in
your exorbitant demands, leaving nothing
or next to nothing, to supply the moll ur
gent neceflities of their families 1 How
ma 1 :)' have fhrurtk into the cheerfefj hut o
poverty, that your cruel i.varice migh'
he gratified ; that you might be enabled ti
uphold your pride, to erect lofty build
i to keep grand carriages, with pam
>ered horf-.-s ; to wear gaudy apparel ; ant
to fitpport a fpii it of disdain tow ards thofi
who are not so rich yonrfelves, or wtit
ire of inferior ftatious in life.
How many bushels of wheat, given by i
icnign Providence for the support of na
ure, arc* manufactured up merely to orna
ment the heads of the people of thi:
city 1 Hist paflaee of fcripiure which faitt
that pride voeth before humility, and c
haughty /'pint before a full, is in a mea
gre fulfilled. They that have spent the
sabbath day in feafting, visiting and merry
making, now, if they are taken lick, ami
"eld for their companion; to come and fee
:hem, they viill ml venture. The Lord
las made it dangerous to vilit on the Sab
> :th, or indeed, any other day of the week.
He fSas likewise difcovcred to us another
ijc for carriage! than carrying the fnliabi
ants of Philadelphia about for purpofe-s
)f pleasure—and that is, to convey the cisai
bodies of our citizens to their graves !
Little did the people think, at the time
hey were hankering after another Thea
re, that they were liriving for what would
>ring a heavy judgement upon them. II
ve read the word of God, we (hall find,
hat the one fin of labouring for the com
pletion of the Theatre on the Lord's day.
sfulficient to destroy the inhabitants oi
his city 1 We did not stand in need ofthofe
ine tragtdies, u hose sole tendency is, tc
tttacH the minds of m»n to the vanities'ol
:hts world, add to drown their fouls ir
.verlafting perdition. The word of Goc
;ives an account of a number of tragica
events, onein particular, at a certain pe
riod of time, that drew the attention ol
tngels, and made devils tremble I—that o'
he fufferings and death of the Lord o:
jlory, the restorer of loft sinners. But
f these will not fnffice, the Lord will ex
libit an event in onr city, of such a nature
is to terrify the people from venturing ir
it the doors of the Theatre !
Few, at prelent, think the city a faf<
Mace to dwell in ; and therefore they »av(
led, by thonfands, to country retreats ant
ilaces of relidence : But there will be o:k
► rand manifeftation from heaven, of th<
Lordjefus, in flaming fire, taking ven
geance on those that know not God, am
jbey not the everlasting gospel.
May the people of olir afHifted city, and
as this whole land, be turned from their
?vil ways, and hold themselves prepared
for that great day of judging the deeds oi
men : which may the Lord in mercy gram
"or his own name'i fake.
Oft. 15. A Fellow-Citizen.
P. S. Some things ell'e occur to my
mind, as the canfe of this peftiience.—
swearing by thecrofs, killingthe book, ant
rrolSng of children in baptism, are greal
Ins ; also, kreeling at the Lord', supper.
ir keeping days holy that the Lord has not
jnjoined upon us to keep, such as Chrift
mafs day, Ascension day, or Good-Friday.
We cannot find any fuch'praftice warrant
?d by the word of God. On the days a
jove mentioned (morning and evening]
imongfoine, a man apprars firft dreft in a
long white robe, and afterwards in a black
■obe, for the fame service. Instead oi
graying to God to attune the organ of the
foul with his holy spirit, there are those
who life organs, compofcd of pieces ol
wood, and put together by the art of man !
—May the Lord mercifully look down on
us, and tune our hearts to hi» own true
worship, as pointed out in his holy word,
30th in principle and practice. " Turn ye,
turn ye ; why will ye die, O bouse ol
ffrael ?" These are my sincere prayers
for my distressed fellow citizens of Phi
laldelphia. for Chrift'sfake—AMEN.
N. B. M irryingpeople by reading of ce
remonious forms, is alio a great fin. They
[ho'uld be cried oft" three times.
Frtm tk* Columb lan Gazetteer.
pY all who possess a fenlibility to the rights
of mat), the present epoch, must be
roolidered as the molt important the Unit-
Ed States have experienced, since they took
rank among the nations of the earth as ar
independent people. \Ve are paflive wit
netfes to a Icene, which exhibits to 0111
view, the unparalelied exertions of A brave
and enlightened nation, contending with
the combined force or' almost all Europe.
We behold the horrid fnectacle of a nation
penecuted by the mercenaries and butch
er« of the human race, wfcofe avowee
plan is to annihilate liberty, and b nifh re
piiblieanifrtl from the earth. Unhappj
Fraiice! who prodigal of her blood ant
treasure to Americans, in the day ofllei
ditlrelfes, is now alfailed by the tyrailnj
which her assistance enabled them to repel
finds herfelf without one ALLY. Th<
fertile lipids of France, (who has ever ex
tended the hand of succour to the viflim;
of opprefilon; mwlt be deluged with tlx
blood of patriots and heroes; while liei
only crime is a i attempt to reform of hei
cwn government! We, as Republicans
imprefled with the importance, and iuefti
mab# value of a tree government, muf
fee that our fafety is menaced by this dread
ful confederacy. We fee the cabinet o
Ureat Britain making the liioft alarming
irogrefson the liberties of her fubjeits, am
:'.!ablilbinp the aflive power of monarch}
:ci a greater degree than any of her king:
ince Junes 11. of hated memory. Altho
;he olteni.ble plea for her engaging in this
yrannic war, was only felf-defetice, and
1 fulfilment of her treaties with Holland ;
*et we find her exertions tar exceed tliofe
>t any former period, fiuce (lie was a na
:ion ; andihe i-s, ia fact, the principal in thi;
iva.- of despots, againlt science, liberty, and
lappinefs. To deftrtiy the marine ol
France, is the darling object of her mi
nistry. Should they succeed in thisdefign,
:he evil confequifiices we shall experience,
ire too obvious to mention. She reigns at
■jrefent, Hrbitrefs of the seas. Her naval
j:man:ents ha*e been increased, and the
thunders her mandates through the world
at commerce, which, bleeding with receni
Mid reiterated injuries, utters the voice of
complaint & bitter fufFerings in every sea
port of these ftdtes. The infernal region:
never bellowed forth more fury »nd re
venge, than the demons of the Bahama Is
land». Undsrthe dire&ion of the secret
head of the British ministry, they have
committed piracies on American vefi'els,
which dtfgrace humanity.
In her infantine (fate, America niufl
expect fnfferings—Thcje she has endured,
and under the old confederacy, so diforga
iiized was i« condition, lliat they couic
only be lamented 1 but with a government
ot laws, and not of ignorant factious mer
—that we should now crouch to thoff
whom we have made to tremble, and ulti
mately injure a cause in the face of heaven
which we have deliberately declarer
rmbraces the happiness of mankind; add tc
this our fearfully abandoning it, not onl}
(hews a want of firmtiefs in Americans, bin
feemspregnant withdifgrace and intamy.
It is well known that the British natior
never forget an injury, whether real oi
imaginary. Imperious by nature, anc
made more so.by the pride of unboundet
wealth and luxury; she is a foe ts ever)
attempt to meliorate the condition of man
kind ; and the humane heart cannot bu 1
view .her success with apprehenljon anc
sorrow. How far it can be confident wit!
our best interests. in the prefer,t afpe£l ol
our politics,to fntfer heriuftilts on our com
merce to pas« unnoticed, it may be diffictil!
to fay ; but should she succeed in her pre-
Tent designs, I fear it will too late appear
that a commercial nation like America
ought never to be unprovided with tht
mofl ample means of protecting her trade
however alarming tile idea of the expeuct
and danger attending a na»al eflablifhmeni
may be. There is but too much real'on tc
believe that no commerce can remain fre«
from the intuits and injuries of that inso
lent power, which arrogantly declares fit
will make old ocean groan beneath ih<
weight of her increafnl»; fleets. We ar<
now in a state of infecurit* ; hut we »r<
deficient neither in genius nor abilities foi
defence, where they but brought into ex
ercife. That we should fuffer by th.c def
trttction of the republic of France, i» full;
evident. We undoubtedly need the alli
ance of some F.uropean power, poflefled o
both ability and inclination to befriend us
However despotism may increase its vie
tims; the trimming arift<»crat shower hi:
benediction on kings ; the privileged or
ders of mankind curse the jacobins and tri
umph in the death of Marat—we juay ven
ture to fay, as a truth, that Charles I. o
Bflcland, and - Louis X\ I - of France, live<
and died hypocrites* They were -wisna
[Total Numb. 205.J
I 1-• to their fubjefts, and they were the
viclims ol'juftice and the law. Anil iince
the days of Mo.es, that great legflator,
perhaps feutences more just than theirs
have not been executed.
That France and Frenchmen may tri
umph, and establish a government preg
nant with every blelfing to which hnman
iociety can attain, must be the ardent wilh
of every lover of mankind ; of every friend
and patron of humanity throughout the
world.
= i
FOREIGN NEVS.
LONDON, August 15.
The following articles are the fnbftance
of the plan of the treaty of alliance to be
concluded between Ruflia and Poland, as
proposed by the Ruffian ambaflador, count
Sieveri.
1. That a permanent peace and a perfect
Friendlliip ftiall fubfill between the two em
pires.
2- That Poland fliail formally yield to
Ruflia those provinces which the latter had
lately taken poffetHon of.
3. That Poland iliali renounce all pre
tentions of the laid provinces, and lliall gu
arantee all the poffelfions which the eni
;»refs has in Europe.
4. Rufiia, on her fide, renounces all fur
ther pretentiaus upon Poland, guarantees
ihe indivisibility of all her poicflious as
they are at prefc-r.t.
5. Ruflia fuffers the republic to give to
herfelf any reafonnbie furin of govern
ment (he will think adapted to the happi-"
nefi of the people, and which Ruflia pro
miles to guarantee.
6. Measures lliall be taken to facilitate
the commerce and trade between the twoi
nations.
7. Commiflaries flinll be appointed ori
both lides to fettle the frontier* of both
empires.
8. Ruflia protnifts to protect, and grants
:he free exercue of their religious worih p
to the romatt.catholics, inhabiting the pro-.
I'inctfs of Poland, lately taken policllion of
iy Rufiia.
9. All remaining meaflires to be takeii
for the benefit of the two Hates, shall be
determined in a particular a£t.
10,. The ratification of this treaty (hall
be exchanged w itliiu the space offix weeks.
The delegation in the firll conference
which they have had with the minister of
Ruflia, represented to Mill the in.pi flibiluy
which they were under, to enter into a
deliberation upon the fubjeft of the second
artiile, which is to be the br.fis of the
whole treaty, since thtv were not at ali.au
thorifed to accede to inch a step. Upon
which count Sieve's, in two different notes,-
infilled that the diet thould invell the dele
gates with unlimited powers, which, after
lonig Jt;bates in the diet, was at lall grant
ed.
The Prtifii.m ambassador delivered in
likewise a note to the diet, in which he re-
Ljuelled that a delegation Ihouid treat witll
nm in the fame manner as with the mini
tier t»f Ruflia.
General CusTlJje isno ttibre; by accounts
received yelterday, we learn, that he v as
"entenced to death, and has been guillotin
ed. It is aliened, the fury of the populace
was such that they tore his body in piece*.
* The following were the fubifancc- of the
:bnrges that were adduced agcinfl him.'
First. That at the firif lig?t of the enemy
lis remained inailive, with a view of fuffei ■»
ug them to penetrate into the interior part
3t France,& replunge then:r'">n in slavery,
js foona the infurredlion in the depart
ments became general.
That he placed none but suspicions cha
racters at the head of the different corpi
under his orders, that he m-fght be able to
imitate Dumouricr, if he-had remained in
hi* poif.
That he made papillots of the decrees
of the Convention, and arrefled the nati-i
onal commiflioner Celliot, for having dif
tributecl amohgthe troops the journal of
the mountain.
That, whenever he p'enfed, he disarmed
such of his troop 1 ! as ritd not embrace his
views,to arm those who erpouferf his cause,
and exercised the power ot'iife and
over his soldiers.
Th-.t lie abandoned Mentz to its fate,
though he had offered with his head to an
fuer for its fafety, and weakened the armv
deAined for its relief, under pretence of
railing the liefi,e of Conde, which iit fnffei*-
cJ t-o bis taken, and of V slenciennes, t'»rthe which he iV.d not fn?.ke the
k-aft effort.
That he was at Pa-is, and h-!d cor'cr
ences with Beurnop&lle, \vlille Diimoiirk r
\va cni r htrimadiig the molt infamous p.a*v
of treachery.
That is? ' to become * the.di it at or
of France, «r.cT adopted the tone and stylo
of Mizflt, Vergni»«', E ifiot, and others a
gainfl: the Anarchtfts. R-forganizcrs,- Clubs,
r; at, and the JViottfstaiii.
That oil iiis own authority, and without
is trial, he ordered three volunteers to be
fiiot, ni)d"f pretence ot their having com
mittVd r;-'. berv.
That Ist ia'. ii'aed-praifes upon the despot
of Berlin, who is (til! duly (bedding
It reams of Fi ** h blood ; -slid iat orincd she
en-iny of the pi ins ol t!!---reps: >I.can army,
be <<-e they were determined.
That he e'icoura..:-d all. the.aristocrats,
and dilgtilted all t.,.- patriots —fnppo-tecl
every ilj disposed p' rfon, and nio i e i'. ii the
Sans Culottes, p the wflnifter
Bauchotte as Uutsiopi'ter did pache, tsc
c sufe Bauchc.tte followed the foot-(heps ol
I'ache —an i endeavoured to difpl&ce gene
ral Hosschard.
That he !' -ifely arisiouncdd.the captsire ol
,Conde, with a view :o favour tl»e infui rec
ti on which was intended to be raised or
t j t? 14th ov July, by the confpii'ators againfl
the men, -rs of the Mountairs,
And [ii t he wrote a billet to the com
mandant at .vieniz to funem'er."
The French Ssmidft all their liiiferies.
are so far fortunate, as to have a produc
live hsrveit-7—tho crops tliru^,ll oilt Fisn-c,
and in French Flanders; are uncommonly
tine. -
On Sundav. .captain Cole, who com
minds hft msjelty's »hip Eurydice, came
express to the Admiralty, with difpati he;
from lord Howe, by which it appears, tha
on the evening of the 31 it hi« lordllip I' ll ii
with the French fleet off the ill nd of Bel
Jifle, to whichi though they had two (hips n
the h'.se tnoie than Isislordiliip haduadci
Jiis command, he gave chace, and cont.nu
ed in pssrfuit of them for the two fallow
ing days; but the French having the wi a
ther ca ,r e, and being between t.ie land a.<c
the British fleet, they found means to e
lude au aflion, fheiteriog thetnfelves he
hind the iflanc! Grevais, and availing thein
felves of the 'difficult navigation betweer
thatifland and the rocks of the Saines, aac
thus ji.ot into Bref, horbour.
A Convoy is appointed fail for tilt
Weft-lßdics, on the firft of next moiitn. f.
) ,rge body of ti'oops is to-be sent out, and t
flat!" officers are already appointed. — Thi
seems as if oft'enfive operations were to b<
undertaken.
About a fortnight back a French row
galley, carrying 16 fwiveis, attempted t<
Jand a number of men is two longboats
between the Main and the K< lies-, on th<
north-weft coatt of I rei.-ntl :i! ut ana! rn
b.'ing given, the country ps As'e alt mibied
lo the number of 500, well iiirnilhed wit)
mufkew, and ranged thenifelves on tii<
beach, when thev fired at the boats, an.
after wounding levctail ot the Frenchmen
obliged them to return to their vefl'el
which immediately made fail to the weft
ward. .
The. value of the homeward bourn
French Welt-India fleet, is said to be efsi
mated at ten millions flerling.
Trade is again becoming very brisk it
Dublin. Large quantities of linen have
bee ' in pped from thence, within the lal
"week, for foreign markets, and entries tt
a very confsderable amount have been mad<
-at the custom-house there for Philadel
phia.
In every part of Ireland there is a prof
pe£t of a molt plentiful harvelt, aosmdan
in produce, and excellent in kind. •
The following calculation has been math
oftheftateof the Married Couples ir
England.—lt is to be hoped it is not
quite corre£t.
Wives eloped from their hulbands 1,348
Jlulbands ranaway frosn their wives 2,361
Married pairsin aftateof separation
from each other - - 4j'2C
Married pairs living in a state of"open
war, under the fame roof - 191,02;
Married pairs living in a state of in
ward hatred for each other, tho'
under the fame roof - 162,32 c
Married pairs ill a (late of coldness
and indifference for earti other 510,572
Msrriedpairs reputed happy in the
esteem of the v orld - 1,102
Married pairs comparatively hap
py - - - 235
Married pairs absolutely and entire
ly happy - • . - NONE.
We have now in our pay on the continent
thirty thousand men, avowedly to take
towns for the emperor, and wc have not
lent a single regiment to the Weft-Indies,
■where, whatever we might take, was to
be our own !
It was a part of the beneficent project of
the war, to ttarve about twenty-five milli
ons of people, and a cos-don was drawn
all round France for thispurpofe. We en
tered into treaties for the purpofc of en
gaging all the princes of Europe to join the
confederacy, and our ambalfadors have bul
lied such of the princes as have had tiie./V/-
famy to secure to their fubjecU tfie blellings
cf peace. YH't cffc&s has this wife and
geneicns measure produced in 1 nice ? it
lias taught them republican maimer* —it
has reduced them to had iV>bflitn cs for
every article of foreign produce and rrsnu
fadure—it lias taken from our merchautsl
not merely 'for"the time, but probably for
ever, so many-millions of cuuorpers, and
it has united alt hearts again (I the confe
derated kings, whose fouls coulcj enteftaiji
so horrid a pr'oj £t.
The patriots in France have- done mort
than all this—they have abridged e* en their
common indulgen-cies. They inUituccd ii;
Paris, which-qmckly spread every where,
itri cc\veme politique, a political rent, which
is to conclude oiv the loth of An suit. and
during which they have r ; r idiy
from flefli meat, that the armies in motion,
who wanted it more than the citizens ai
h >me, might bectfechially supplied- Such
'is the impulsion that -the criife of liberty
git-ea to a nation whose levity we have been
accu'iOmed to revile.
The deeds of miniftrv, are the deeds of
darknefj. The Rurii-an, Sardinian, and
Hessian treaties, wefe""mat»e known to pa^ j
liameßt only on the 1 alt day of its public
btifinefs. But there is Irill ahothfer treaty
to be disclosed, the treaty with Auilria.
That fiich a treaty exists, is plain; for
Cowde and Valenciennes a!*e appropriated
to Airftria, though the latter Was taken by
the combined force*. Nay more, a board
(or junto) ii formed for managing this, and
other future conquelts. , Can this be with
out a treaty ? but where is that treaty
made known f it is to be found in no ga
zette : it lies only in that large mngaz'iiJe
of treachery, the cabinets of princes.
The wickedness of the grand Duke oi
Tufcany ; in attempt! !g ro keep his'fub
je£ts free from the calamities of this jufi
atid 'holy war, is very reprehenfibie. A par
tition of hit territories is the least puniin
ment can be thought of.
The profecittirtns in the country po on
with unabated rurour, and at every afiize,
iit every quartet teflion, there are
ments presented for spoken in liquor
—for felling or for lending pamphlets-*—and
they are chiefly ag-iin(t men whose inde
pendent spirit, ariling from fuccelVUil in
duflry, makes them scorn to consult their
t afe by ignominious fubmilfions to the tooii
of oflice.
FRENCH GENERALS.
The French eXcuse theiry?r latUitv r efpeft
iwg their generals in the following manner:
Pe Bouille, they fay, planned th fl s;ht
of the kin:*. Luckner was a foreigner,
and was supposed to love money without
loving liberty. .Rodvambeau's goodqudi
ties were in efteein, but doubting his own
popularity, he resigned of his own motion :
La Fayette car-fled His politics and in
tt-igue? into the army, and they were at lalfc
tuought of the wrong fort. Dumourier.
like De Bouille and La Fayette, turned
himfeif off; and after firft difplacxng Ls
-Bourdonnaye, and bringing Miranda into
quefHon, he led Valence, E&alite, and o
th.M's into an avowed conspiracy.
Cuftine, alike fcurriilons to his enemies
and his colleagues, at lait attacked the Con
vention, whom he called brawlers, and in
want of a dictator like himfeif ; and he
was therefore soon defer ted, when he was
found deserted by fortune.
Wimpfen, who never enjoyed full confi
dence, has declared, like several of his pre
decefTors, that the Convention does not
polfefs any confidence from him. Biron,
who was of the high nobility, a quondam
Orleanite; and looking for large inherit
ances, was thought to be toodiiatory against
the infcrgents, not to have a fellow fepiinjj
for them.
Servan had a heavy charge toanfwer, in
the defeneelefs flateoi the frontier towards
Spain. Kelierman, though still in com
mand, is known only as a soldier ; and has
not fvrflicient talents to five him, fnould
any suspicions prevail refpe£ling his patrio
tism VVefterman was proved to be a ma
rauding adventurer, both iii Flanders aud
La Vendee.
On the whole, the French fay, that an
army is a-machine, and the general is the
foul of it; that it would be idle to con
tinue a general after he was fufpe&ed of
being less attached to his employers, than
to their enemies ; that to change is an evil,
but to be betrayed is a far greater evil ;
that many of their changes have been fatis
factory to their armies, and even prayed for
by them ; for when men riifc their lives, it
is at Jeaft a confojation to know,, that they
have• oftener merited cenfuie for men
they have kept, than for the men they have
difmilled ; that events have almoit urivcr
fally proved their suspicions to be founded;
and that as their firlt general.- were 'kings
men, their next confliuitionalifls. and their
third set Girondifls, no wonder that they
were each displaced by the fucceedii g par
ties. That in our civil wars in .-Charles's
tftne, generals were in the public
interett, the next m the Prefbyter'in, and
the next in the Independent; and yet they
carried through their point for tae trme
That the duke of Ormond, and the French
generals under the monarchy, were gene
rally changed, when there were ch mges
at court, and sometimes from mere caprice
9i" intrigue. That tjie senior officers in
their armies at present, are natrraily full
of old prejudices; it w'rli be (ome time be
fore thtfe are weeded (r \\ orn out, and
tlic new cies fill their placcs; and that 3'
every new choice of a general i. an expe
riment. on account of their new circum
w inces, it is not wonderful that fjme.of
their be unfortunate.
i\ut in the'.m .-an ti-ff, they fay, that as the r
army, en the whole, hangs together, and
is to > vafoto l»e ddinoli&fd at once, time
will ascertain the ability a::d fidelity oi
th- ir officers; and France having never
had half so many men armed in its defence
nor its people half'fo much ar.imat <1, tl.t
allies will become bankrupt and diihanded.
belo. e tlie conqu'eft of France can be con
cluded. If they are right in this, then it i;
pretty clear, that England is in the wrong
in its mad crulade; and that a fyfiem oi
bribery cannot go very far in a country,
whe: f the attors ere changed so often.
The return of Lord Cornwall!*, fron
India, is polrpoiied. His.lordlhip is toft.n)
until alltiie French fettle merits in thai
quarter are taken, and incorporated with
the JJf'tifh territories. This is not Uip
jpofed to be a tafl: of fticb difficulty as
m%ht not eaiiN be accomplifned by infe
rior abilities ; but it is, thought advisable,
that it (hotild have the fanflion-of his lord
ihip's name.
The object of the present war, "in re
storing tranquility (so Europe," as avowed
ill the fpeeolics and declarations ofTome of
the princes- engaged in it, seems to 1 e ef
fected by Til oat: s. fmlilar to those adopted
by the defolating'fpirit of the Komaus in
conautting their military expeditions, a..
described b/T acltu* :
XJbifolitud tm c ;i. iurit, '<acem appellant?
Wfitrs t/iey create a dejart, they call'l
peace.
The acuejjtante of the French Coiiftitu
tion, by a great majority of the prinur)
afl'eifibiirs, may be now confiderni as cer
ta;n. Not only have the departments of
Eure and CaWados, where the jti•:(f for
midable oppolition was apprehended, re
nounced the C'irondine party,and declared
for the Convention: but the furthers de
partments have begun to follow the e;x
ample.
To-morrow is the day noticed for pro
claiming the detifion at Paris.
In the Leydetl Gazette, a letter dated
Grodno July 18, fays, " that on tiie 17th,
Hie Diet, finding that no alternative re
mained but unconditional submission or
open war, and the king representing that
cruel as was the injustice to which they
were compelled to yield, it was a less evil
than having the Ruffian troops font to live
at free quarters on the wretched peasants,
" Resolved, To leave the F/mprefs hor
felt" the arbiti ess of the fate of Poland and
of the treaty, opposing nothing to the ex
tteme misfortunes, of the Republic but the
magnanimom sentiments of the said sove
reign, in the hi pe of melting 1 her by thi
condefcenlioiv.
1 his relolntion was not carried without
warmproteltalions and reuionftrances a
gainit it ; and was carried at fact by £9
agaiult 20.
Extrafb of a letter from Briifly«, Atir:- '•
" The day before yesterday the whole
city was full of incendiary pslting bills, in
which rhe French emigrants were invited
to take arms, to prevent the difmeuiber
ment of their unfortunate country, on ibe
poii . of being effpfted, like that of roiund,
by the combined powers.
" These bills were immediately torn
down, so much the more so, as it is deeply
felt here, as well as elsewhere, that, in the
present circumflaaces, the partition of un
happy Poland, and tie proceedings towards
the Diet at Grodno, do infinite i, jury to
the cai'.Je of Sovereigns "
The government of the Anftrian Nether
lands has discovered, or pretended to dis
cover, that the emigrant French aristocrats
believing that the combined powers aim
only at trie difmeinberment of France, have
entered into a confpiraoy, cf what nature is
not defcribcd, with Dumonrier. Great
numbers of them have been taken into
cuftorly, particularly at BrufiVls ; Dumon
rier hinifelf, as our readers hsve been in
formed, made his escape about two hours
before the arrival of tiie persons f»:it to
apprehend him ; r.nd such is the extent of
filfpicion, and the "rigor of .frarch, that 110
Frenchman, whether aristocrat or demo
crat, can now consider himfe'f fafe within
the jurisdiction of the Anftrian govern
ment.
Paris. July 30. A private lett»r from
Tours llales the royali!! Amy to be parti
cularly flrong in the following plates, viz.
Machecoul, Fontenny. Ghoiict. Vez:n»,
Viez-, Mortague, in tact f>vrr all Pdtou.
part of Saintonge and Anjou. Jt/»n(irts
in all of 120,000 men, Bo,oco of whom are
armed with muskets. They ha»'e already
a very numerous train of artillery. The
whole army i* divided into four rorpi,
under the dircftion of a council coinpofed
of forty persons. The principal leaders
a-e Gallon, Bernard, tie Marigny, th«
Chevalier d'Autichamp, DeleflUrt, C;.the
lineau, Laugreriiete, I.arooie jacijuelin,
Lef. ure Uc. There are trnung uiein none
ef the higher class of the nobility..
''T however remarked (fays the write:
of the letter) ere cordon rouge (red rib
band) b'.t I dopt know his Fame. —Each
ef these four armies has a general in .chief,
with a corps of regular troops, ever in ar
vjty, and is reinforced by (he inhabitant
as a certain nik b. ;■ ot parilhcs allotted for
the ferv.iceof eachdiviiion. whenever any
grand attack or vigorous defence is to be
made.—\\ hen frhey ast preparing to march
the general orders a lufii ier.t quantity of 1 •
bread to be bake d for four or live days ;
e;ich peafynt is ordered to take liis {hare,
U'hic!i v wiih his nuifquet, i; all his baggage.
—V on niuft obfene that 'they are notfuf
iered to lay down their mufquets for a
moment, and lint'they hold them in their
a nib \\ hen they fl ep. When any part of
the country th y occupy, is threatened
\viih an attack, the-general who commands
in that quarter immediately dilpatches ad-
Vice to tl.e geue'raj council, and fends off
courier?, who order the tocsin to be
rung in all (he p ~ ithes set apart for the
particular, fcrvice of that division; arc! so
tittle fcirecy and celerity is there in the o
pera'tioas of tlie republican generals, that
the chriflian army, is ever in a state of de
fence when attacked.
" Their manoeuvres are performed with
the greate# fill: at the commencement
of an attack they aln:oft always fallback
in circlet'to engage our troops to pursue
them into the interior of the" country,
and th 1. on a signal previoufiy agreed or,
made either on the top of a ijill, or bv
(lionts, their fcattercd army ciofes and m*
:\«elopes iijtirs, which ever finds i feli tx
; tremely einbar *.d in > country coven d
with woods and mountains, and "wheie
the artillery and earalry are of little aio.
They executed that manoeuvre inthelaft
aftios \ce had with them on the 17th in(r,
in whici we ftiftained a very confiderab!e
. loU.
P II I L A I > ELPIIIA.
Wednesday, oHolier 16.
The Tenth of (fay English pa
pers) was the day appointed for the behead
ing of r.i aria Antonierta. No printed ac
couriti, coive> r, of her execution have
■et been received : • America ; tho' pafien
ers in dillcrent * ;'fl: iHommuncste it, as
"t e prevalent and credited rep >rt in Lon
don, that the quern did not iurvive the ap
pointed day.; that fne was dragged to the'
guillotine to revenge the capture of Valen
ciennes, &c.
Extract of alettrrfrom Virginia; Off. 3.'
"The favour of France to tbia country are
inflate:* heightened, when one cor.liders the
diftrrflcd lorlnrn ate of America at the
time tftey were bef owed. What then mull
we think of drr dent agents & ("ecretaries,
intoxicated wii'ri'- Ir own felf-i mportance
ami political elei i.'.-n, instead of applying
public cash laanr I, t , the facrcd obje'a of
its dffiTtnitibtV, rema» ng it from France at
a t'.tne it was'rn.-it needful, and throwing
it into tl.e paprr^in!'itutioss for the uses of
speculation. Not the smallest intimation
•>f the tfouduft of these two worthy agents
(short the H igne and Hamilton at Phi
ladelphia) was given to Congress, until
vrefted rrj«i t':e latter by repeated calls.
It »ppr»r;, that the former disordered state
of French affairs had iflued contr -y to
\i'i* : r ekpfftatioos. At (he time of these
'.-41* transitions the duke of Brunfwick
•. as hero'i - y i , r'chirtg toivards Paris,
| preceded i»v fnlnrna ting inanifcftoes, but,
contrary to the S"ci erary of the 7'reafnry's
exr-eOat. jr.. c at: cry to his official calcu
atioin, perhaps co-trary to hisinoft 3rdent
wiliieji, t;ie unexampled exertions of the
French nst'on soon produced a difgracefut
retreat, and every drum which founded his
•etl-aigrado 1 ;■> oeuvres, founded the ap
proaching d . ,ce of the Secretary's cal
culation: ; founded the alarm to his con
cealed o e » . n . and founded the funeral
Knell to his r i' lijas, political, projects.
—America wants no men of huge ambition
I in her governmental departments ; when
Much nrr found there, it Jhall be the care of
the People top;:* th • into situations where
j l!ny can do no ham."
Extrafl from the jog Book of the snow
Eliza, Capt. ( 'well, arrived here Oc
tober 9, from Havre de-Grace.
"On f'rid.ij. \oth Augtift, lat. 45, 42.
Ion;-. 1 6. 50. saw two veflels that gave 11s
chace. The flap .soon came up, fired two
without fhsv.'itrg any colours; at the
t'cond fi.ot v»e rounded to. The mate of
tie (hip cam- -1 I ard in their own boar,
and examined tie flow's papers; Captain
Caldwell t-as o .'ered on board the {hip.
At 5 P M. tl-» c "tains of the {hip and
brig, who were now near us, came on
board, mir c 'ptaia being flill detained on
board the f tip— " fearclied every part m
ot the vg(T*l"icould, brokeopen a num
ber of the pals'',:r . trunks, and letters,
roUke-d r!;»m o'' pai t of their contents, fucli
a« cloathing. "'"hey also opened two
bales of «:u car.:" ; rank and deftroved 3
great part on liquor, and atfed the
wbole time like 1 'e«. At BP. M. the
captains returned beard their refpeftive
■ c'is is, 1"p aat? of the fliip and
two hand,; I'. an all night under top
sails to the's ell' kin fine weather. At
half past o. A. Cant. Caldweil came
on board " ':en r privateer's people left
J ns. The lip •• ailed the Olive of Li
! vcrjaooJ, tiid ire br■ , .Agues of Liverpool,caiVaiil Parker. The mate of the fli'p
w'i.ij - .name is Edward J<>tier, fjid lie was
i;, !! . !i i Philadelphia, where his wile
no > re ». '
0-"t. to. I'be'iv; reported,
"the.' M . \» litmope an officer of the A:n
b\i" >d»\ who was taken by the Ballon • ri
ga;: . y Hook. a few days before
til,- s n ~.i Wtwt-fii those frigate*, "ill not
1) ■ o '!i;1 : !by the Briti :i as a 1 cfli er .-f
the' Republic ojF: France, o't accent f hit
ftnsl :' I -eu on A/ificx'i Citizen, k:t
tr.-i'-'l-at a P-i-fl"—Wo have an-horicy
11 affiire the pnblir, that untii a fati.fn f try
e: 'vi l be given oil this fui i -.it,
N > EtCHANsnof any E iglifnnut;:. isi.sdc
p.-.j v. b-, j.ie .' .i>>s of the :c ol
Fe.«n e, will take pi cr—And that the con
lu3s of t'. f French nation in the Unit d
A
j-olta/J, tr c -ftnt. t:V any filth exchange.
fr-i'i a L-1-iAon Paper of Aug ■ r r a.
A f«\v-d !>■ • ft'i ••• a man named V/.id»\ a
° Tiuld.-rt!; .m, drank fume
wt?.' from " well near hi - Jioiiie, which
occafi >1 .1 a si kef; at his 'I >mach for fo
veral .dav! ; in order to relievo vi hich, lie
t ) >'c f. • emetic tartar, and- voided a
ft »G of mo ■. than an. inch long, which i
no v alive, and lie is quite r.co. .red from
his illiiefs.
Extract of a letter from Citizen M-ifien
nier, Confnl < L f the l 1 renc.t K '[-tr. !:c, at;
J Baltimore, to C.tjz m Gem-, Miuifter
Plenipotentiary, dated 6th O1- 17V '>• "
" The f h loner Sans Culottss,. troin
MarfeiHes, has lately captured an lrilh
b wh•eh had oil board i 8 > pafli-n ;ers,
who had fold themfeWcs as fljvt, for the
term of 4, 5. and 6 years, in order to pay
their 'callage—The mailer <A the prize
e; r- '••tl an,inclination to fell them ; but
' J :Vj *:led the proposal with contempt, and
\r IV the in their liberty immediaielv. My
c) id net on this occaSon v. as very plea'vig
to th • inhabitants, e'fpecialiy to the Irish,
of wilt. 1 there are a great number. ami
who, would certainly have blamed vn..
lud I acVd otberwife. The paffengsrs
o".i-eding'.y grateful, and implore the
b'elfi i.(s of heaven for the French Repub
lic, and all'net; agents, who are actuated
by ii.milar motives."
Ext raft of a letter from cant. Miller, of
thei irqne Prudence, dated Bourdeaux,
.A-iiyvll 17, '793- , , , , ~
" W".-are now fully-loaded, and would
have failed in a few days; but yellerday
the-e was an embar-o laid 0.1 all foreign
vellffs which had cargoes onboard. It is
fu*>pofed the realon is, that a great many
of th" a were bound to Bremen, Holland,
anti-Flanders, to supply the enemies of the
nation. Four American captains have let
out for"Paris, with a petit 0:1 to the Na
tional Convention, lor liberty for those
bound to America and the Well-Indies to
proceed. K will take 1 8 days for their re
turn.''
Extra,l of a letter from a gentleman, in
Boston, to his friend in Philadelphia, da-,
ted 25th September lalt.
'• This wi'.l be handed to you by citizen
Robert, a French Phvlician, and a gentle
man of merit. He had engaged and paid
half of his paflage for France, when he
learned the progress ol the dieadfiil oifeafe
which rao;es in your city : without helita
tion he has given up the money he had paid
to fiv to the abidance of his fallow ciea
tiire's I hope his exertions will be crown d
with fuccels. I beg you will introduce him
to feme of your friendHe comes from
the Manillas in the Eafl-Jndies, where the
u l'lealthinefs of the climate has attorded
liim the opportunity of heing well acquaint
ed with such disease*. On ins paflage irom
thence <0 his own conntry, he was
by-the Britilh. and !o!l a handsome property
prefeht my refpecls to your family I
Willi to hear that none of them have been
hurt by this disease."
The following plan of a decree, was pro
poled by garrere in the National Con
vention on the ill ot Augull, and was
adopted.—
Article r. THE.National Convention
denounces the Brinifli government toKu
rcpe and the Englith nation.
2 Every Frenchman that n*i.i p.ace his
money in th« Englilh fand.f fhail be declar
ed a traitor to his country,
, Every Frenchman who has money in
the Knglith funds, or those of any otlier
with whom Franye-is at war, Inall be o
blia-ed to declare the fame.
4. All foreigners, fubjefts to the powers
now at war with France, pa.ticularly the
Englifli, lhall be arrelb d.und fials put upon
The barriers of Paris (hall be indanf-
All good citizen* (liall be held, in the
name of the country, tofe irch for the to
reigners who are concerned in the plot ce
Bounced. . , ... r
7. Three millions fliall be at the difpof
sl of the minitterat war, to facilitate the
march of the garrison of Mentz to La
-Vendee. ~ „ .
o. The m'nider at war fia.i fenc. to the
army oil the coalt of Kochelle, all the com-
ti!V;b!e Materials necciTiry tc> set tire to
the fortrefs and underwood ol La Vendue.
9 The women, the children, and' old
n:en, Iti 1 be conducted to the interior
a irtj of;iie country.
10 The property of the rebels fliall be
coiififcated tor the benefit of the'republic.
ir. A camp Ih ill be,founded without
i- ; y between Pais and the 'northern
. 11" tii V .
j2■ All tiie f.imiiy of the Cttpets {hall
be bamlhed from the Fren'eU territory,
thoft? excepted svho are under the Rvord
•ii the law, and the tv.e o r.p : ot Lou
is Capet. no (bail remain i'* tile \ emple.
13. M*r> Antoinette shall be delivered
;v-c» to til ' Revolutionary Tribunal, end
'.all be immediately e&adntt d t-> the ;>r>-
0:1 i Coilcierrerie. I- H'.if'i I', iiz .b ■ cI)
haii remain in the Temple till after the
j of Maria Antoinette.
i 'j, All the to:, b; (/' i';o k'"s which
re at : t. Dennis, and in'(tie departments,
I hall be c!< .iroyed.on theicrh of August.
Ij. The p'-tfent decree Oiall be diipateh
sd' bv extraordinary couriers io all the de
•a tn eats. ——■ —
F.xtraii* 0/ a letter fr> in a merchant in Li
verpool to his friend in Norfolk dated
July 28. 1:93.
•' Every thi.ig >s in sn unfett'ed Hate
liiTc, a - ;'l war b •tv.cen this country urci
\:;:cr a appears inevitable; indeed v t
:n iv fay thar hostilities have already corn
menced, as the Britilli citizens capture all
Ait:- ricau vt i; •st •or from France, tinlc l.
01 c! -I v.i to!- Icoor in ba! a!t. Should
•:h'~ A ..crs —s be inclined to 0 ! mit to ":!.
fwtoivh lexpe'ct ihey. will not) tli_y w ill
liortly n !>'• permitTrd to trade any where
nit To England; and 1 am much a)raid
.here wi.i le another ilne/Me lor liberty
.<:■ 1 1 ill tyranny, ihe Americans will hive
jl.iny crowii'd heads to contend with:
md. in my opinion, they cannot too foe ■
;nit thcmfelvei. in a I'tate of defence ; and,
15 it always belt to nip every evil in the
beginning, I think it would be very pro
;>er for 'c!;.M to turn their attention to
f: mi el hi iike tin:'.:' old alfociations, con
cerning isiaaufacturin;.. railing (beep, fl x,
lepip, &.c. and i: n me. J lately pass a r.on im
portation act, from this country on all Bri
.iib jsood* Iroin any port, which I expect
wiil have a good efiVtt, as the trade in this
country is alrooftat a Hand, and thetnahu
'.-ctures in great diitref-, and .t present on
ly supported by the American trade.
vi About to days .r'o 1 u'a? in the cloth
market at Leeds where there were at lealt
to 000 pi. crs 01 cloth exposed to sale and
not 30 bought, audi atfnred that trjey
tvc.'e fold by p> ! 'p 'in difi tf-. and at very
•educed prices—ln a ancKMVef tuey are
equally bad, and many thoofand fupport
_v! by fubfcripdion. and i.i t! e utinotl enf
:refs.; yet the mili ary a"e infatuated and,
Teem determined to involve this country in
[till greater evil*;.
" There are about 20 fail of American
in 111 i- kingdom in a- p, izes. I lie
American brig Hope, .from Charleston to
Buirdcaux loaded w.itn conee, lugar. .v,d
tobacco, was captured by the Royal Anne
ot this part, a ;d lent in h re ye! .. day —
the captain was derail -ed oa board the
Aiine, and the crew-', as fto-i .<- they aiTiv
e:l nere, sent to j :i. I h.e mate et an A
merican brig tiiat has bee" brought in here
has been bribed to f. ear that her cargo 1
French property, and tiie bribery can be
proved— fr< m 500 to icoo guineas is fre
quei.tly Oifei'ia ■o. capia'ns and matesti
fweaf agalnil i.ieir o a n vcllels.
The snow F.'riza. Caldwell, is arrived at
New-York from Havre de CM-ace, lrom
whence Hie 1-ileciAn 1 By the Eliza
Paris accounts were received to the 7th
of Augufl- li is cb.'covcred by these ac
cma: f,t:i it neither the 1 ite-.jueen.nor Cuf
tine. had be 11 t uiriotiiied., as was laid tin
der Lond a: head of An~. 12 —we do not find
by them, ti at Paris i., otbn'wife than trail
onil, though, as might be expected, anxi
ous, and diligently purftiing mealures ot
re ft J} ana a'jainit theii-hofts. of foes. They
Hill hope for a firm confederation Under
the new Con'Ttiition —and believe, that
had it not been for {hgoM■ they fnould
:ven now have enjoyed tint much wilned
for coalition, wmcil would prove a terror
to the combined despots. No great moye
men s have taken piare but a g.-rnd camp
of defence, on the road to Valenciennes,
has been decreed, among several other
important objects."
The republic ol France contains one
uindred and eleven fortified towns, which
fnppofing one should be takenevery month,
it would be ten years before the whole
could be taken.
The cities of Lifie, Rochelie, Havre de
Grace, Elkueuf, and othri ph'e , have fnt
aified to the Convention tluir acceptance
if the Constitution. The adijiiuiftrator:
as the diltria of Rochelie, who joinedtht
department league, have afcr b 'i their oe
fcition toathoiilandfalfeandinceadiai y re
!),,rts, and to the iniinuaiioi.soi On. haftnt
•nember of the National Convention.—
t have f.vorn to prel#rve their
ance to the Republic.
The inhabitants of New Proridenrr have
received intelligence from the Britifli mi
nider, that-the French fleet at New-York
were preparing for an expedition fnppofec
again!t that place; in conlenneace ol
v.'!. : r!i t! -y have laid an embargo oil
-. neir p>ivateeis and wer?-repairing their
- ortificathni;, when the iafi accounts camc
. w v •
We IfT~ r n flint, a few (1 'f" ago, a fire
broke *>nC at L liumghurph, supposed to be
iet oii lit c by-a uicheti \\ oinaYt, and burnt
i?vr*r-■ i hotjfes and (tore*, to the very great
of fevcral individ; als in tii it
tuvyn.
"\V.e are informed that the Custom-House
in is about to be removed to Chef-
r v
/;' • -» oft. 8. We he tr that- the Britifli
ministry have declared, that fhbuld A:nen
ci i cyntmne to p •rmit the french to bring
;>r"r/.es into their po.ts. that they will im
mediately give orders for the captures oi
every, and all American yeflels which may
be found on the high Teas.
k '*j ble Executive power of the United
States ha.-, prohibit -d the.Qur.fn's from con
demning prir.ca. That power did not ap
pe tr lo iin cjearly cxpr«lied in the trea
ties bct'a ecu T. ance a: :l America. lam
old a ue;:,ociai io n'is oil loot toadjult tlioir
-a itrcrs. " The refnlt of this prohibition i
rb. r the captors rand take upon themfelvc.
the management of their prizes, and the
tale* which as> far as it refpefis the cargoes,
wi'-l be attended with no difficulty. Bit
:'.jpfe who would pnrchafe the veflels, wili
not tr .!*.v tab" them without a previotr
cw.d.-nirs' , t>n."
Tile h- Hh committee of New-\ orh
have p th: ! a Refolutidn, prohibitirfg ail
jr> •••.. , b ,i, "-tiling, cloathing, S.c.
par!-cd u| in Philadelphia, being brought
into that city, unlvf previously expolcd to
rjtg -> >-ii air 111 fame well ventilated place
for l,i bait hours; and undergoing fc
veral - titer monies of purification.
M D r il, the noted pirate of New-
PravkWnce, anprelienriid there; and is
to i.-bf his trial .'orpiracy ; an afiion be
ing commenced by the king's attorney a
saii.it him, at the ftiit of.capt. Shillaber,
of. Sal. 111, in Mair.ch.iftHi; " for robbing
lihii i- : the high teas."
From Frciu h tapers we learn, that the
act or n: of the ni A urt tines at (.ape I r.m
ttoi , reached Paris on the loth ot Augult.
The generate well inf.amly beaten ,the tock
fni founded ; and the feitions colleftivel)
iemnnded -if Lite legifltiture, u thai, me i
"ur.st . be eut-led into trt fend relit!
co the colony."
Some accounts from Europe fay, that
the king of 1 1 11f;bi has wtthdrawn hi.
troops from the French frontiers.
A'l, or mod, of the E u papers paint
the French Kejiubiic as upon the brink >i!
iri abyss. It ought ib U rsmemberei, thai
r uch pi times ast the vjerk cf thtfe who
'i/ter:/ (I i the oie: throw '■/ lleputlic.
i Hi.,: t>'u rdi •ration uj the aid tyrant/t
---eal government.
'i : " omportion of deaths of in thi:
ciiy, for. twomou'hs p dt, to females, is
fb'-n; 3 men to I woman. The deaths oi
p rfoH; far advanced hi life, and ot child
r n un-!er foven years of age (the oi
i;-,ii v ::'ce) are very!« w indeed, when com
pa.< J those of persons in the prinit
Mid vigour of life.
We hear from Boston, that Gov. HAN
c-< CK died on the "Bth of October : Hi.
death wa< un'eitpef 1 ed, attho' he had. beer
ind fpofed for tome time.
It is remarKable that the neighbourin:
cities, epdeven the country wiuiii; 3 or L
mile . tif tins city ei i ys a remarkable Ina: t
of health.
On t'le 12th infWnt the Committee
of Ilealth iii reported, that
"they knew oi uo i'i'rance ot any perlo.
infp.red with the cKfo.der prevailing n
I'liiladelphia."
Anecd -v..—All, honey ! (laidan Iridium:
to fys frieOd one d:.y) pray can you ienc
me tea-pence ?— '* iil deed I can l, (re
plied Paddy) for I have no more nor four
pence.*' " Well give me that, (rt-firnei
tlie other) and tueu you'll owe ine lix
pence.
from the Greek o/BiON.
IF Cod, orVate, to man would give
1,1 two fucccl i.-e itaf.s to hie i
The firit, in-pain and foirow pas.'d
[11 ease, content, and bliss the last, _
1 then would rack inv an-cioiis brain
With fhidy, how that state to gain,
No tail; t. j hard too rou ,b no road
Fiiat led to that serene abode—
Butlince to all impartial heaven
Dae fleeting life In only t'iven,
Twere mad«efs, Cure, that time to vrafte
In search of joys I ne'er can tulle ;
What hope can bloom 0.1 'ill'. lalt-ftage
When each delight is pall'd by age 1
[ The point in w'.'.-htbU antient Pajnr
ihrlofopher expressly disavows his belief
iciliiiiutes a lead-lie .o tie'e ill the crett
if every Chrifti ;n. How inconliUently tl
licy ast then, when profiling to believe
*h,H that nr.ilofopher chibelieved.they avoir,
jurftiinj tiie course which he «oidd have
pursued, had he been a C-hriflian.]
From the Baltimore F.vening PoO.
To the Editor of the BaltiSioue Evem
ing Post.
Sir.
SINCE ray r turn from Norfolk I have
learned win no fin •!! tincafmefs, that, an
" Kxtraft of a letter IVom a gentleman tra
velling to the fonthvyard," %\hich has been
I j uMifhed i:i on? 11the PJjilndelphic
j lid tfjence copied into the Baltimore liven
; ing Port of the 26th, lilt, lias been generally
ascribed tome.. I therefore thinkit incum*
b.*nt on me, in the mo.ft politive and ex- (
1 eft manner, to afTure the public, that I
neither wrote, dilated, nor publifned a
n ;!e line of it.
'i'he similarity of some of the circum
(lannces mentioned in the Extras, tothofe
which occurred on niv arrival at Murray's
tavern, the place v here the guard wa«
placed, renders it necessary to enter into
lome detail on the fubjech
In writing to my family after my arrival
at Gray's gardens, I informed them, that
I had been flopped with tjje whole r.f the
paflengers, twelve In number, about two
miles from Baltimore: that we were dm en
out of the tavern ; into which, during the
absence of Murray, we had entered ; that
one of the guard had threatened to fire
at me three times for walking within his
lire, although I was uninformed of the
e-tent of it: And, from the darkness of
the night, it whs hardly pollible to distin
guish it, even if he had eonde/cendcd to
point it out, which he negle&cd to do:
that for the fame offeucf he had flruck an
elderly Frenchman on the cheek with his
bayonet ; that we flcpt or dosed in the
flage for three or four hours; that then
finding ourselves cold and uncomfortable
we kindled a fire in the wood?, and llept
before it, some on trunks, and others m
thegrafs; that at 8 o'clock next morning,
when the landlord was at breakfafl, we ("1 n:
to him for some victuals, which he very hu
manely refufed to give us; that about
ten, or half after ten, he relented, and
Tent to inform It?, we might ha\e some
bread, cheese, cyder, and wine; that t. e
accepted the offer ; that we were detained
. 1 this manner (a lady, the wife ot a French
captain, in the company.) without any
shelter but. the rtage and the woods, from
8 o'clock Tuefdayjiight, until VVeclnefday
afternoon ; and that I then remained at
Gray's 't: 11 tiie Alexandria stage set off.
All this 1 wrote—and this only.—And I
challenge any man to disprove a iinglS cir
cumttance of it. M. Tiebout, command( r
nl the French veil<_ 1, now lying at Fell's
Point, 'one of the paflengers, can, and, if
applied to. will confirm every article of
it. If it'be criminal to write the tiuth,
I acknowledge myfelf a criminal.
1 pnrpofely Wave, as foreign to my pre
sent pnrpofe, every enquiry, whether all
the precautions Eeceflary for the preferva
ion of Baltimore, are not compatible with
Fome degree of attention to the ease and
Convenience of travellers; whether tents
t>r temporary (beds ought not to beereited j
whether (topped on their jotir
acy, ought not to be secure of being able,
when in nece'fity, to purchase proviiinns;
whether meafiires of wl ich the legality i»
cunfeffedly queiTinnable, and which no
thing but tile paramount law of felf-pre
lervation conld jullify, ought not to be
carried into effect, with_the ntmoil lenity.
These, and a variety of other enquiries,
which arise from, and are int inately con
netted with a difcuflion of this fubjei!, I
leave to abler peas to inveftigare.
To return to the Jpurhis extract of a
letter. At my return home, I may perhhpA
b; able to trace it to its real author, and to
[peak politively on the fhbjefl. But for
t ie prclent, I can only account fnr it, ly
f'jpp -ii• 1■ 1 tha: the Editor o! the Phiiadel
pi«i 1 p i?er in win h it inrde ;i« npnc r,ranee,
heard perhaps at second, third, or fourth
hand, of the contents of my letter—mil
th#n bathed up the garbled, rmfreprefent
ed account into " , n e-trait if a letter,'"
as an article of intelligence. This. I be
lieve, wiH bj ultimately found to be the
real Hate of the affair ; for I am f.tisfied
to be branded as infamous, if the fabrica
tor, or publisher of the extract, can p. o-,
duce any person to whom I \yrote it, or
prove, or even render ii probable, that it
was taken from any letter of mine.
A writer, who figus himfelf L 'Philo Ve
ritatis,'''' has embraced this opportunity of
difplayinj* his literary talentr, which he has
really done moil admirably. He severely .
renfuresthe Baltimore printer forthe " lf
:ent/oiis innovation" of copying a para
graph from a Philadelphia paper. He theft
aeltows on me, the genteel epithets, " im»
,nident and ignorant." From thefecharges,
I limit not attempt to defend myieif. '1 hi fe
who know me can judge how tar I deserve
them. Those who do not, :: i J;t refnfe
credit to my denial, were 1 disposed to de
cline the complim:>:ts paid me.
The elegance of this writer, the excel
lence of his wit. and his humanity, areve
ry ftfikingly displayed in tile exprel'iions
'• Faddy at all eitr leaning to one fide —
haltingforwrd and hopping iff," all alin
fionsto my lameness, which, it a crime, is
rertainlv a very pardonable one—as it was
lot committed with " v:alictprupevje.
I am, Sir,
Your obedient servant.
MATHHW CAREY.
Havre de Grace, Oct. 3, 1 79^.
P. S. I should not dojuftice, were I not
o declare that Serjeant Stover, who com
nandrd the party on guard, on Tuesday
light (1 7th ult.) behaved with the utmolt
;indnefs. humanity,' and politeness—as did
the who eof the detachment, from capt.
Strieker'j company, who were on duty oil
\v tdnefday, after ten o'clock.Frem lie Alexandria Advertiser.
' & 'HE j -efent crisis is important to the
1 world in general. The llruggle of
expiring defpotifrn will eventually be pro
ductive of consequences with the fate
of millions yet unborn. Such as can view
the present fra with the eye of indifference
/null be calousto feeling and poffcfs a ilo
ical insensibility. Patriotism cannot influ
ence their hearts. Let the idea of the
subjugation of France be once admitted,
r.nd th * mir.dof tk-'true Patriot, the friend
of mankind is filled with painful sensations
in contemplating tVe consequent m-.ftry,
f ndiag the extinction of that sacred fire
which now animates the breads of free
dom's sons in the eastern world. Religion,
if paR experience proves anything, would
become subservient to the bafell purposes.
Calculated by its divine author, to pro
mote the happiness of mankind ; an'
Fraught with sentiments declaratory of
on earth, and good will to men ; it
would be converted into rhe tool of def
potitm. and the chain of arbitrary power,
by the monlhous conjunction of church
and Hate. The gueftion in despotic courts
is not what religion is acceptable to God ?
They enquire not whether the articlts of
their creed conefpond with divine revela
tion ? The aspiring despot, and the subtle
courtier form an eccleiiaflical establishment
which moit effectually Lcures to them the
poffeilion of aflumed power, and the de
pendence of th .r slaves.
Civil liberty, which once Stimulated the
brave Americans to the noblefl a.sts of
heroism, would on!y be remembered as 2
pieafir.g dream by the mcutners furround
■ing her sacred urn. The generous patriot
would lament in secret the misery of man,
condemned to tread the rugged paths of
life i:i chains- The parent, who once en
joyed the blefiings- of freedom, would
drop tiie sympathetic tear, while reflecting
on the mferable fubjedlion to which his
children are born. The ndultiioas hus
bandman, and the humble mechanic, find
ing no security in the pofT'ffion of their
well earned property, would relax in their
pursuits after honeit gain. Supinenefs
would pervade the wretched fuljeds of ty
rants, and the hand of industry would be
enfeebled. Taxation without representa
tion ; trials without juries, oppreflion with
out redress ; the unnatural degradation of
the multitude, an! unmerited exaltation
of court fy copharts and worfliippers in the
temple of monarchy, ;*re the prominent
features of the monger that strives to raise
its diminilhed head, and uni
vcrfal dominion over mankind. The en
lightened mind of man recoils at the bare
pr bability of the extinction of reason,
and the triumph of defpotifrn. Shrrl ty
rants again fatten on the foil manured with
flavcry, and watered with the tear of op
pnlTi 'i ? S'all the votaries of defpotifrn,
more impious than Moloch's worlhipper3,
et the head of hcllile bauds, again desolate
the world, and deal misery and death with
unsparing hand among the innoccnt vit\-
jmS of their rage ? Forbid it Heaven !
This is the period which decides the
important queilion, (hall man be free ?
Such are the views which prsfent to the
mind of Americans in ant cipating the
• conquest of the patriotic French. Every
good citizen, however, deprecates the evil.
They feel interfiled in the eventful ftrug
gl ; while gratitude, duty, sentiment, the
common cause of liberty, with perforative
eloquence, demand the infant arm of Ame
rica to relieve a filler in diflrefs. Interelt,
too, if reveriionary blefiings are worth Se
curing, points out the propriety of render
ing eS'edlive assistance to our injured ally,
if required. Despising the motives which
influence the friends of monarchy in Ame
rica to aflume a dove-like appearance by
talking of the blefiings of peace, and the
advantages of neutrality, they dare ttot
pnrchafe these at the expence of Ameri
can faith and republican virtue. When
these gentlemen become the advocates of
peace in Britain, and condemn the breach
of neutrality there, their sincerity will be
less doubted.
The hackneyed argument in favour of
a renunciation of our alliance with France,
arising from the condemnation and death
of Louis Capet, is unworthy a serious re
ply. If the exifling treaty had been en
tered into for the mutual guaranteeing
the heads of the higt contrasting parties ;
if the extinction of privileged orders in
France, or the ereilion of arillocracy in
America bad been (lipulated as causes of
.disunion , then the treaty would be equally
aTFe&ed in its operation, by the decapita
tion of Louis in France, or the creation
of an arillocratic rule here. The execu
tive of the United States, and the French
miniilry, as the representatives of the king
their matter, in the formation of that treaty
mutually engage, on the behalf of their
refpeftive nations, for the peiformance ol
articles stipulated, equally advantageous to
the citizens of both countries with refpeft
to commerce and war. It refp'fted not
the internal government of France or A
merica ; and no relative change in the
conllitutiou or policies of either can ann\:l
those obligations or render the treaty inef
feiShial. While, therefore, tl e goo 1 faith
of France is experienced, Republican A
meiicai>s will rejoice in the alliance, and
render all the •iflitlance (he claims in the
hour of her ditlrefs from the unsophisticat
ed conftrutiion of the bond of union.
The late decree of the National Conven
tion of France, announced to the public
by Mr. Secretary Jefierfon, which ope
rates so advantageously for the commercial
interest of the United States, and displays
•he of magnanimous France,
should raise a conftious blufii on the cheeks
of tho e who have wounded the honour ol
America bv fophi ticating, and explaining
away the felf-evident meaning of words,
and the idea of treaties.
Tell it not in B:itain, publilh it not in
the (Ireets of London, that the civil au
thority of America hath been exerted tc
punish as delinquents her citizens for en
gaging in the common cause of mankind
■under the banners of France in oppoting
her numerous foes, led the votaries of del
potifm tiiumph in the defection of the
leaders of our country, and rejoice in the
extiriflion of that flame from whence the
lons of Gallia derived their sacred fire.
Citizen Patriots, can yoarefufe the tri
bute of gratitude due to the TWELVE
who, defpifingthe influence of a felf-confe
quentialexpounder of law, ftaodnoklyfirm,
hnd disappointed the hopes of an aspiring
fa&ion .' And (hall the verdi6to of juries
be despised ? Shall the citizens of Ameri
ca, the volunteers in the caule of man, be
Hill pursued by niiniflerial vengeance?
Doth Balak, the prince of Moab, hope
by change of time and plsce to curse the
people ? Disappointment and flume shall
succeed the attempt, and America fhail
(till be free.
Alexandria, Srf t. 25, 1793.
PHILADELPHIA.
EnlraS of a letter front the rtyaljl army,
(in opposition to the National Convention)
dated stagers, 'July 29.
" At length I have the pleasure of com
municating to you the moli ]>!ea(ingevents.
We have fought several days fuccefively,
and the action of the j Bth completed our
joy. and gra'itude towards the Supreme
Being. The christian and royal army has
entirely dellroyed that of tie ithtijls.
They have had fix -thousand killed, nearly
the fame number wounded, and thre«thou
fand made prisoners. The remainder are
so dispersed, that they will not appear a
gain. All their artillery, ammunition wag
gons, baggage and provisions, are in our
pofleflion.
" God has blefTed us with a complete
victory. His aid also manifefled itfelf
rowards 11s on the 24th inflant. We bad
heard that the bridge of Ce, was guarded
by four thousand men : we in consequence
approached within a league of it 011 the
23d, and the next* day at three in the
morning, we ranged our small army in or
der of battle t» attack it at day-break.
" The enemy fullered us to approach
within cannon (hot, and then discharged
twelve pieces at us.—We immediately cri
ed out, the sword of God and Louis hisfol
lenuer, and rushed like lions on the four
thousand men, put them all to the sword,
and took all their artillery. There, on the
bridge dyed with the blood of the enemies
of God, we made the air resound with the
praises of the Lord, whose exterminating
angel undoubtedly marches before us.
" After this lait victory we entered An-
I gers, where the white flag 13 flying on all
I fides, as well as in almoll all the provin
ces of Anjou. We have just dispatched
a courier to order the colunjn of the royal
army, stationed beyond the bridges of
Nantes, to approach that city on the 4th
of Augull, in order to give the alarm on
that fide, but to undertake nothing, until
we fliall be ready ourselves to make the
attack on the other fide.
Pa£urs.~\
r?'ALL p?rfuns in arrears for this paper,
and polt matters and others who may have
received subscription.money on account of
the fame, are reqneUed to make rpeedy
remittances! To prevent the di.es swel
ling to an improper amount, no p; pers will
be continued tofubferibers after the 26th of
Oft. inft. who {ball then be indebted inore
than fix months.— of payment
in fubferibers, is the tiri! ret]ui!:te in
undertakings of this nature, and wk!-'ont
which it is itnpoffible that any pnbiica ion.
depending merely 0:1 subscription, can Ion;'
exiil.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And Is be fold by THOMAs Dobson, Wil
liam Young, Robert Campbell ,
Mtiii's. Rice and Co. and John M '
Culloch, No. I."North Thirc-ftreet,
A N EXAMINATION of the lute pro
ceedings in Congress rcfpeftkig the
official conduct of the Secretary of the
I'reafury; with Oblervations, &c. on the
application of Joans from Holl nd, negoti
ated under the ails of the 4th and 12th.of
Augult 1790. —The, price of the above
pamphlet is three fifteenths of a dollar, or
is 4d. 1-2. April 24. 2avv tf
%* The author requests liis readers to
correct the following ERRATA in the
pamphlet above mentioned Page 5.
iin 11—2 d. paragraph, lor Coalition read
Collision. Page 2.5. line 11—2 d. pirag.
inllead of Bank direttan read "Stock
holders."
TO THE PUBLIC.
T^THEREAS an attachment at the »uit of Sam
uel ImUy and Nathaniel Imlay, execui.<r:
of the testament and laf't wilt of Peter (mlay, de
ceased, has i slued out of the Supreme Court ot
Judicature of the ftatc of New-Jciley, zgainft the
lands -of Garret Voorl)ei9, late of the county o;
Middlesex, and slate afoiefaid, returnable to the
(iiit Tueiday in leventeen hundred
and ninety-two—-— Notice is hereby given to the
said Garret Voorheis, that unless he appear and
fire special bail to the said action, judgment
will be cnteted againir him, by default, ar.d the
lands so attached fold for the fatisfa&ion of such
of his creditors as fh'all appear to be juftiy entitled
to any demand thereon, and /hall apply for that
purpose, according tr) the form of the.statute ip
such cafe made and provided.
By order of the Court,
April 17. law. jy HOWELL, Clk.
EIGHT DOLLARS REWARD.
RAN AW AY on the 20th of June Ja A, from
the fubferiber living in Carc'me county, in
v itatfe of M-t-yland, near Choptanlc a
NEGRO BOY, named j^onatbae f about
ears of ag~—-he is born, but-a bound fervani
until 21 years of age—he is tolerably stout and
ftiait built, has 3 yellow ca.l in his countenance,
talitcth wi.h his tongue again!* his teeth,
Ja<f« thick seer, his toes square to the ends—hi*
mother's nama is Lidye, who now lives in J mes
Neck in Delaware ftatc, where tJje boy has form
ed. some acquaintanceiince he run away, An\
person taking him up. rnuft ast with the greareii
caution, or he will give them the Hip. Whoeve.
cakes up the fjid boy, and secures him so thai
the owner may have him again, shall have the
above reward, paid by
WILLIAM JACKSON'
Sept. 4, 1793* 2aw6w
Seat of War.
FOR SALE,
AtM. Caaey's Store, 118, Mar
ket-street.
A SHEET MAP
Of the French, Anftrian and Dutch Ne
therlands,
In which tie progress of the present War
m*y be traced.
Price three eighths of a Dollar.
And a M A P of the
Three-Northern Diftrids of France, di
vided into Departments—Price
one fourth of a Dollar.
Maps of the United States :
ANY publ/c-f pirited gentlemen, poll-lied with
materials for correcting and improving the
maps of the fcveral ftqtes, will lay M.
under very particular obligations, by communi
cating them. He is in immediate want of some
for New-Jersey and Delaware; of which ftatcs,
he is no# preparing maps.
Guthrie's Geography:
THE subscription tor this work ivjll be conti
nued open, at the present rate of twelve dollars,
till the day of November srxt; after which
it will be raised to fourteen dollar^.
August jo#
WANTED,
IN TWO OR THREE MONTHS,
AN APPRENTICE
TO A
REGULAR APOTHECART.
A Youth not less than fifteen or iixteen
years of age, with a suitable education, and
good moral charaiter.—For further parti
culars enquire «f the Editor. sq>>vU'
PRICE CURRENT.
Dollars Cents.
(100 Cents make 1 dollar.)
AhES, not per ton ' I2td
pearl ditto iJ4d t» 140 c!
Bacon, flitches per lb Sto 10c
—Shoulders do . 8a
Beef, Boston per barrel 8d
Country do 7 d
Beer, Americanin bottles
including botthy per doz. id 74c
ditto per barrel
Bees wax per lb 26c 28c
Brandy, Coniac per gal 90c hoc
—common do 80c to 850
Butter in kegs per lb 12c i^c
Cheese, Country per lb 9c 1
—— Engliili 19c
Chocolate 18c 20c
Coals per bufliel 20c 22c
Codfifh per cut 3d 53c
Coffee per lb 14c 18c
Copperas per cwt id 67c
Cordage, American per cwt 7 d 67c 9d
Cotton per lb 26c 40c
Flax per lb rjc 12c
Flaxfeed per bufli. 90c to 1 doL
Flour fr.perfine per barrel 6di
common s d. 50c
Bur-middling;*, belt 4d. 50
Meal Indian per bbl. 2d 52c
live, do 2d 40c
Gin, Holland per cafe 4d 33c
— per gallon 80c 90c
Ginseng 20c 24c
Gunpowder, Fine glaze:! per qr e 411 3c
Grain, ftarley per bulhel id
Best i.elled per bufliel 2d 67c
Buck lie;: t per btiihel 40c
Indian corn 55c to toe
Jersey, do ( 3t
O f ifs 4 jc
I' ye 60c
Wheat 107 c to 130
Hams per lb 9c lo ]2C
Hemp, imported per fort i 2 od 146 c! 67c
American per lb 4c 3c
Hides, raw per lb 9c tone
hops 2 g c
Money per gall. 60c
Indigo, Carolina per lb id id»o=
French id 20c id 67c
iron, Bar per ton 84d
Cartings per cwt 3d 50c
Nail-rods per ton ' 1 jqcJ 33c
P'g ' 2<id
Sheet *73d 33c
Irons, lad per ton
Lard hogs per lb joe
Leather, foal per lb 2CC
Myr'lewa* per lb j2cc
Molaiies per gallon 60c
Mustard, flour, in bot. per doz, id 20c
——second quality, per doz. 87c
Nails, &d icd 12d and 20d per lb. ioe
Oil, Linseed per gallon (6c
Olive g 7 .
per cafe 5 d 50s
Pepper per lb 3 g c
Pimento
Pitch per bbl id 73c to :d
Porter per calk 5 d 33c
London per doz td (^oc
——Atner. bot. inclu. ldßoc
Pork, Burlington, per bbl 14c!
Lower county I2d
——Carolina i o( [
Rice per cwt 3d
Rum, Antigua id
Barbadoes 87c
Country, N. E. 62c
Jamaica id 16c
Saltpetre p<?r cwt 14*) 33c
Salt, Allum, per bulh 33c
Cadiz 23c
Litbon 27c
Liverpool
Sna'ceroot per lb 20c 42c
Snuff, per doz. bot. 4d sd 60c
P er Hi 33c 85 c
Soap, Brown per lb 6 C
White g c
Starch per lb ' 7C
Sugar, Kavannah, white, per !'(► 17c 18c
Brown ]0 c 12c
Muscovado per cut 13d 15d
Lump per lb 3IC
Loaf, Angle refined, 22c
double ditto 03c
Tallow, rcfineti, per lb °g C
Tar, New-Jersey 24 gal.perbbl id
Carolina, 32 gal id 50c
Tea, Hyson per lb 93c id 28c
Souchong foe 93c
Bohea 3^ c 3^
Tobacco, J.'mes River, best 4 rf 3^o
Inferior 3d 53c
Old 4d 67c
Rappahannock 3d 33c
Coloured .Maryland 5d 33c 8d
Dark 2 d 40c
Long-leaf 2 d 40c
Eastern-shore «d 2d sic
Carolina, new 2d 7c 3d
Old 3d 33c
Turpentine per bbl 2d 33c
Wine, Madeira, p. P. jj6d 22M
Lilbon 1 sod 126 c}
TeneruTe per gal 63c
Sherry 90c to id 20c
PRINTED BY
CHILDS AND SWAINE,
AT THJIX tTFJCK NO. 209, HIGH-STREET®
FIFTH ' T R '.ST.
PHIL AOELLPIMA..