. r, ~-n i nr. „r--«vc nnd Saturdays, ["Three Dollars ptr annum.
Ry p. PRE A' E'A U : (at No. -09, Market Street) Pubhjlud Wednesdays and L ?
,Numb. 74 of Vol. 11..]
AFRICAN CHURCH.
For the Nation AO. Gazette-
Cqmzcn Freneau.
\I7HK.N aperfap ventures tofubmitms
opinion*. and sentiments, ti> a difcein-
W p\|oHc.it is at 1e ilt expected that he ha
a c<>t rable acquaintance with the subject
\i;,o i whleli lie writes: if he writes with
out i lformation, his productions, or w iat
ever nature they may be. tend only to vnil
lead the puoiic nn 1'!. without a ill
anv beneScial purpose whatever.
The truth of this remark appeared to
trie very evident, on the pernfa) of a pjecc
in your ]) toei* ol W<3uiieiday the 3 4 * ' 11
[No. i-j.] limned " A True American."
The svriter either intentionally, or per
haps (Which is a mnre charitable I'uppoliti
oni iir'in ; -:;ntly ntirtaces. and raifVeprefejiu
everything relating to the fubiect on -which
lie treats, and launches forth into the fe a
of declamation, without previoutty fecur
in-r the pilot of Truth, as the guide of in
voyage;—a precaution, the neglect o!
which. shews a great want of fall in our
orer-.i'!ventrou» navigator, Cc the adoption
of which, would indubitably have pre
vented the fatal ftilpwreek, which. I thin!;
j: will appear, he has fuffered. 1 frave nc
intention of entering; into a prolix coiltro
T-erfy -ft'i£H the gentleman,. and therefore a
few observations, in order to remove anv
s—-n-effiov. which hi". piece mv: Yw -.node
on the minds ofthofe of m> fellow citizen*
who have read it, (hall fufficc ; after whic!
I (hall bid adieu to the author and the sub
reft „ , . ,
The opinion of" The > rue American,
fairly cedueiMe from the whole of his cf
fay t appears to be this; that a certain aii
{looratic junto in this cify, combining toge
the":- for the pu,-pofe of excluding tlu
Blacks from a participation of public wor
fnipin conj urUiian xili'i tkemjahes fcr oi
foot the African church, as the rnoft com
-'.etc rr.esn ■ oistayjiig tlv* eafi and thai
in consequence of this oltata 11 ( nmt nt th* Af
r'-cans and their defendants are obliged tc
rnnfine themselves.to this church, or lie
"left the public wefhip of the Deity alto
f-the.r—' the piece must certainly mean this,
f.r no-hin - at all, and if this be the mean
in? of it. 1 assert that it isfalfe and ground-
and that it either originates, as I have
hinted before, in downright ignorance, or
whit is worse. a malevolent design to dis
turb the peace of society, and under the
fpeciouicloak of democratic zeal, fuppref:
an inflitution founded for tlie iiioit benevo
lent purposes.
If he is really actuated by the motives Ik
pretends, 1 would merely mention, thai
the crv of. M «l Jog ! when too indifcrinii
natel" used, ]ofe« its terrors, and that lie
does 'not ast up to his principles, in de
claiming oil (a: molt) a very trifling dan
<r>r while real evils remain unnoticed.
He cannot be accounted a fkillful phyficlali.
who spends his trme and his medecine ir
curing a triiii scratch upon a fafe pari
of the body of liis patient, while a niortaJ
disease preys unheeded on his vitals.
Permit me as a difinterefled citizen te
prefer,' you with what I have underllooi
to be th.- true state of the facts relating tc
the African Church.
The Blanks, it is well I'ad been
frfr a'confiderable time thought unworthy
t'ne benefits of education and learning, an.!
if is equally known that in Philadelphia the
prejudice that feenred the too reedy adop
tion of this fflidaken opinion is now worn
off, that liberal eflablifhments liave been
founded for the education of negro chil
dren, and that many who are now arrived
at vears of maturity have witnefTed the be
nefits to be derived from thet'e institutions.
It however has always happened that the
Situation of these persons, whether ireemen
or slaves. does not permit them to extent!
their ref.'&rches in fcience'.to so great a
lei-'tlv as the more fortunate whites—Thej
found themfelvcs, therefore, not fuicept
ible of thbfe advantages in our congrega
tions that they would derive from the ad
monitions of a person of their own colour,
who might deliver more simple truths, and
less refined dilquifitions, than they had ge
nerally heard from the clerpyiren, to
whose d'cliorufes they had attended—this
idea, together with a deli re of eftablifliinp
a church"government of their own, whi< h
would secure a happy religious interconrfe
be r w6en each other and between tire ton
jrcgation, and their pallors, induced them
%-aptly t° the generosity of their white
brethren for ailiftance. towards building a
church of their own—They formed a let
of principles on the bails of the cbriftian
SATURDAY, July 13, 1793.
religion, which for their simplicity and
truth, may vie with those of any other
feft whatever. To tiiis creed all who are
.i<Un\tted'. are. supposed to ftibferibe. but
with reflect to those who do not think pro
ber tb adopt them, there is no rule either
among any ot' the pre-existing feftr, of
whitemen, or in the fvltem of rules which
tiie Africans have acreed to. which o:>lig
c-s theirt to quit the former or to jjin the
latter. . •
It appears tnen that the plea which. ( :ne
True American" fowarmly opposes, origi
nated with the negroes themfeFves .and
thit the actions of their benevolent ftHo\>
citizens (who are now ftigniatifed with
'.he opprobrious epithet of an aristocratic
unto) were <rnly to second and affiCt them,
in the pitrfait of t'.je objects, which they
chemfeives tirlt contemplated.
But I suppose we ihail be told here, that
ivith whomever it may have originated it
tends to make dlftinflions inconfiltent with
•epnbfieamfm Itisfaid that an argument
;hat proves too much proves nothing at all:
it' this nature is the reasoning of the True
American. Would it not,if admitted, prove
impropriety oi different leefs »)f Chri
[Vians dii Tent ng from ench other in their
modes and place" of worship ? would it not
Drove that it is favouring iriftocratic dif
:in£tioni!. .for a qtiaker to worfh p In a dif
ferent manner,and in a ferrate piace,from
a Roman Catholic, or Presbyterian, from
an Episcopalian ? Has any one of the reli
Ti"ous congregations in this city declared
:hat as soon as the building of the Blacks is
Vnifhed, they are to beno longer, admitted
:oafe3t with themselves? Will any Chri
[tinn minister ffufe baptism to a negro
:hiid. provided its parents think proper to
'omain counseled with his congregation?
N'o : the fame charity will be exercised to
wards the. BlAiks.they have heretofore ex
perienced from their white brethren in
Philadelphia, ar.d those who do not think
iroper to conform to the adoption* Ot the
iririei'ples, or the obfervahce of tne pi ast
jf church government, which the African
:hurch has eflabtilhed, may flill continue
•,v th.ths feels to which the yrefpectively
je'.ong.
Let me conclude with a word of advice
:o the "True American." If he writes for
:he purpose of informing the minds of his
'ellow citizens, let him remember, that ca
umny againlt well ifitentioned individuals,
rid vile mifrrprefentations of fa"rs, are not
the proper modes of aceomplilhing so dr
lirable a pt-.rpofe. If he is merely seized
with the cetcoethes fcriber, •7, sltho it is not
to be discouraged, let liirn employ his per
on better arid inthecarfe of truth.
If he willies to lupprfTs the "rank weeds
us aristocracy" let' liirn turn his attention
to the foil where fhev have taken root.
I cannot help thinking that it J-r,r.l'.s ol
Kiflocracy 0:1 hit part,f.» warmly to oppose
, tneafure, pmfurd with zeal by the ver\
Tcrfons themselves. whose eanfe he feerft*.
ro vindicate, an'.! intended for their bene
fit alone. He will cio well to remember
r.'i3t in places where fl ivery exilts. In it*
h.gheft vigou:-, fuel) inflitmiitns, as the one
i am foeaking of, are either difalipwed or
difcohragert, and that it was left for the
enlightened citirens nf Philadelphia to ac
knowledge that the negroes were not un
worthy, or incrpable, of conducting a re
ligious cftabliC'ir.ent according to their
>wn ideas, and opinion Lalily, I would
requelf him to read over attentively the
address of the ol the Afri
ran church awd'the tenets which they pro
fefi to hold—l am sure if he is poflefied
nf candon, the noble charafteriftic of a ge
nuine republican, he will own that he ba;
been mistaken in the opinion which he has
lb nnadvifediy formed, and so haflily sub
mitted to the public view—l molt fnicereh
hope, that he may, at a future day, noi
onW fee the benefits i • alized u hith I anti
cipate, but that he may likewise be con
vinced it will operate more effectually that
any step her fit Wore taken to the abohftirc
of the infernal practice of enfiaving out
fellow creatures, merely bec'aufe the;,
differ from us in colour.
A I riend to Truth.
July Bth, 1793-
For the National Gazette.
AS the prefjnt is a period when opinions
, fhotiUi • lie collected ; as a citiz'cn, 1
conceive myfelf called upon tofuhnntmy
sentiments orieverv point, wlrch, it is pro
bable, will hprpafter be decided up m y
the people. , The prefeiit licuation of the
United States, is, to be Cure, extremely
critical. On .one hand we have :i solemn
treaty toftilfill, which teems with noble
and generous, obligations. On the other,
we are-jenloufly watched left wefaould leap
thebovfe.v.iries of ourduty. If we neglect
the.hiltillment of the former, our national
credit, our ail tliat is valuable, will be
blasted with ignominy,and we will declare
otirfelves enemies to ih extension ofli-
If we are impartially friendly to
all the powers, we prefer diffimulatioti arc'
meannefs-togratitude : %ve will prove our
selves friends to despots and foes to free
dom, This is our alternative : let reason,
juflice, 3»d policy dictate our choice.
Mvrcb has been said, (with propriety too)
refpefting the Preftderu's late fo'otreign
edit.'. So much, that it is now rendered
alrnofl; nr. 1 'fcefiary to enlarge upon it.
But, as 1 have I rggeiled, this is the time to
eftima'e ffinions.
In giving my opinion on a matter of this
nature I would willingly cfcspe the op
probrium of both parties. Butiti«fo ve
ry difiirukto fleer in the current of popu
lar opinion with fuceefs, that in the entfet.
I despair o(my iortune ; rnd anjlenfiblc of
the danger my barque is liable to in fitch a
violent torrent. But partly convinced that
candour still retains its fuverrignty in the
United Stute'J and that free opinion is the
"narn fprifcg of republicanism, I flatter ray
elf. that :.le following attempt to concili
»te the jarring voices of the citizens, will be.
f not eireitnal, the forerunner of one, that
will convince lis all of the purity ofihe
Prefident'o pacific intentions.
In roy opinion. the difputc (hnuld have
erminatcil on the appearance of the Pre
sent's explanation contained in his an-
Twer to the citizens of Salem. But by the
iye, I am far from thinking him juftifiable
n ijTtiing 3 proclamation which would re
quire » frparate explanation, or which
would ,e admit of any dispute on the
sppii'caji n $>sot y words contained in it;.
Laws, or any mandate, or letter ol'advice
Irom the head of a people, (honld" be*~con-
Brurtcd in plain and intelligibly terms-
They should never be so ambiguous as to
admit of mifcofertrciilion or evafron : and
assure as it-is the cafe, however just . wife,
and .politic .the thing may be, it is certain
never to operate eS'cdtualiy.
Wilhing always to preserve tire due fe
"petV for ®urfirft magiflrate. I mufl never
theless acknou ledge that iiis use of seve
ral words is ftrange,new,and unprecedent
ed ;■ and I can afl'ure him, that his uncom
mon use of thele words, was the only
source from which the fnbfequent torrent
nfinveftive sprung. He surely Smew vei ■
well,- that the people of the United States
felt with gratitude, their obligations to
France; and that they wa'ched for an op
portunity to make a generous return. He
knew that as soon as Great Britain declar
ed herfelf at-war with Fiance. Americans
would recur to thejr treaties and eflablifh
a partial neutrality : yet,
this T.confcioiifnefi, he lias liegleified any
mention of our treaties. I will not fay lie
wllhed to inipDfe a proclamation' on us
which might be conllrurd as the whim
of every one thought proper; but I mull
ron'els, hi's late explanation, has made a
fimilzrimprelEon on my mind. Yet on the
whole. lince our judgments are to be
cuided nore by the intention than the
aftiotlr. of him we judge, I can fafely be
lieve, he did ret intend to advile us to a
neglcft of our contracts : and this I.hepe
will fuorily be the opinion of all. and-the
PreiiJent will be re-pofll'fied of the elleem
of every citizen.
I mull here observe, that I cannot think
[he President outreached his duty in de
claring u* in a (late of neutrality, confident
with our treaties ; because it is his doty to
preserve the peace, and, until a declaration
us war by Congress, the fSates are at peace,
and l>e bad a right to declare them so.
I carn-Jt -conclude; without addreCifig
r.iyfclf to -the delicate .feelings, of the
•'friend to -Peace" and "Pc-ijn r^, who
have •talnioft been perftiaded" to be cow
aids, and confecuently enemies to war :
for, fhovld I neglect this, the gentlemen
would certainly * think I had overlooked a
confideration-X" which, through modeOv,
they have withheld from the public; but
which in-private, has been given to us for
our latid-mafk. And to vin.d ear gentlemen,
hn in to shield vnrr Vna 1 "-
1l is weti known. t._[ lit tfte au.ti.bis ui
' hefe pieces, in endeavouring to pacify cer
tain pei'fons, have threatened to withdraw
their 'provkletl we fliould enter
into a vvar. \>\ 1
[Total Numb. 178.]
ter, (mart with the darts aimed at him,
what fhalllfay? If I fay you are wife,
your good sense will declare me a fiatteper.
11 I fvvenr you are friends to the United
States, your friendfliip for mc will cease—
My prudence prompts me to speak the truth,
ind th .uvjli my atre£tion ixjr you is une
qualled, I cannot, for my foul, be ba!p
;nough to applaud your vices. For, firs,
/on know there are three w ays of becom
ng£ partaker in the guilt of the crime of
mother : firlt, by bcii»g the occasion of
t. Secondly, by giving cur conlent to it,
■irevions to its eotr.mifiion.— And laflly, by
ipproviug of it after it is con n ittid —
fitfleil on the last and consider h«>w fingn
ar your situation is. For the Pi efident.
,ipon confide ration, has felt a eenviflion of
lis error, and to atone foi it, has riven lis
ii;. iliilcidation. But a faithful EOS will
dwnys fori for his iraOer, \\ hether he is
>r»ife-w orthy or cenftrrable, in o£
ibiaini'ig a juicy bone. Little did you ex
jett when )on attempted to evinc your
lttachment to his excellency, that lferi/ar
ind .Viercntor would put you tw so fliame-
Ol a flight. lilt alat, firs, fair-play was
lot lr.ovrn, they had the riling ground, and
truck yon while you were down. Take
ronfideuce, however, you have the despots
:>f Europe at your back ; and until kings '
ire exterminated, and royal blood is anrii
lilated, your exillence will be honour
ibic and hai py.
TAPHN A.
July ;th 1793'-
For the National Gazette.
Mr. Freneau,
r HAVE been one of the most forXunoto
*■ adventurers in the iojtery of politics, and
set I do. not enjoy tile happiness 1 ail
icipatfd. My cafe is this. Not pofiVflWl
•>f great wealth, and craving an im«i«i<ity
f in tiie government ttith S"ierofii
:ion to make a fortune. My w hole ioul
was devoted to that obieft. Money ivai
never out of my thoughts by day, and I
ireaint of it by flight. J boggled at no
>rviliry, ik> drudgery, pub.ic or private,
hat might forward my design. With the
"miles ot 1 fortune and the help of friends,
I fticcecded beyond my hopes. Previous
to the introduction of the funding fjllem,
[ got hold of a clue that in the labyrinths
of that bufirefs was worth tome r.o Itfs
:han forty thousand dollars. The Afliimp
tion was near making ine as rich as Croe
sus; never were letter plans laid, or exe
cuted by abler members of the craft: but
nur profits were fatlly frittered down by
"one untoward accidents. Perhaps I may
be induced, feme day or other,to entertain'
the public «ith the curious hiflory cC them.
My iVi afe of the enterprize ad.ded, notwith
flaviding, five and twenty thousand dollars
to my flock in (peculation. When the bank
came on, you mpy be fnre J did not fail to
play mv part both behind awl before the
fceiies. For certain reafbns, Ido not
now fay how iruuh I made by well timed,
operation?, in the cxcliffive fix per cents,
afterwards in the iticlu'five Mrte per cer.is y
& then in that notable and delectable com
inodity, seJtiP. It is equally cftdlrfs io
riefcend into forne Jnbfeqncnt trnp/adiotis,
flill converted with the bank, which time
may explain.* Suffice it to lay. in one v. ord*
that I am now what I resolved to be—rich
& yet, as I observed above. I am not happy-
Don't imagine, however,that my disappoint
ment proceed? from any remorse at the
ways and means whereby I have acenm
plilt.cd my purpose. Thanks to my stars,
I feel nothing of, that kind, having catt-off
all such vulgar prejudices as fait "as I got
acquainted with the world, and rose to a
higher sphere in it.—No, fir. my wretched
ness flows from quite another source. I
fear, from what has got abroad, ami the
nfes made cf it.that all ofuswho liave been
so prudent in our public stations as to take
care of the main i r.ai ce. are to he eternal,
iv kept in hot.or more pi operly fpeeking.in.
boiling water, by a set of low wretches,
who had rot the fame sense or.spirit to do
rs we did, and endeavour now to set them
selves offin the eyes of the people by paint
ing our little liberties in money matters,
ill all the horrible < olours their malicious
patriotism can invent. They h,av<e raised
iisp.reata line and cry againilusas if we
had been j'uilty of robbery or murder,
whereas the woi ft that (onld .be c;."'rged On
usii. only breach of trnft, or fr-siid.
I'dw. Sir. i-i r not hard, cruel bard,thus
>a have the polder cup of cur felicity dnfh
cd v ith poison, with beiere we couldSiply it tii onr Hps j thu-. to tatle nut a mo
minc ofcotifwt or repose fumin t
ofo lr wilhjs, where w; havea'raved thro'
I > n my dark, foal, a id crooked ways!—
Fx myp »rt, lam read/ to die ofvexiti
jO i Wa it makes our condition the more
intolerable is, chat all our atre up'sto ex
tircate purfelves have tut multiplied our
perplexities, aid (welled* fie triumph
ant joy of our unrelenting enemies. We
hive J Worn that wj are all a> innocent as
babes, as pure hs angels. Nat a foul w.ll
believe us. We have worn out every abu.
five epithet in the language, on the repub
lican faction th it makes this birbarous
war on our quiet; all to no o:h;r purpose
than that of disgracing poor Feuao's Ga
zette, ruining its diltanc circulation trom
t!ie feat of government, and finally oblig
ing him to throw himfelf «n the mercy ot
the Bricith and cosy incereft 111 Philadelphia
si preserve ,i grufi ItreeC exiltence in the
everting of h s cliys. This is but a baJ
return for his drudgeries in oifr service.
We have spared 110 piins, left untried
lib artifice to blend onr fate with che cause
of the gavirnuient, by folemoly alluring
the peoplethat the attacks on us are all le
velled at the government, which is to be
alTaffinated through our fides, judge ot
our inortificat on when we hear one read
er oSferving, "that the government is to
be diltinguilbed from the adininiltration :
this endeavour to coulound them has a ve
ry suspicions appearance;"—"the bett
way (fays another) to preserve the go
vernment ajainft danger is to purge it of
abufei." — \ third, a. chly fueering, ex
claim " modelt tello-.v; these, i ideed, to
be b - a iding others with difaffc£Vion to our
free government, when "lis no lecret char
they are itching for a km; and nobility,
and' are leagued in their hearts and then
hopes with 1 le crow led defpocs who are
drenching m (lions of in locent people in
blood iu rjvet re for the death of one guil
ty monarc 1; wno have f.vopn eternal war
agai'nlt t lie republic of France, and will
never be at ease tilt liberty is banilhed from
the face of the earth.
Siieh.'a Mr. Freneiu, is the m'fersblc
plight a d conditio 1 in which We si id our
felve.s, rtl filch the gloomy prospect that
is b -fore us. Before we abandon <mr
selves to si lal delpair, it has been judged
proper, after due a id deliberate co initia
tion,, to make ole efTiy more for our re
lief. You will perhaps be surprized to
learn, but it is not t le I els true, tiiat you—
yes, you—Philip Freneau, Editor ot the
Nation d Gazette, llrange as it m y ap
pear, Iwve become the pivot on which our
o lly fnrviviug hopes now turn Permit
me to explain myfe!'. First and foremolt,
it is well Known, and to none better thar.
y mrlelf. th it our mi. so. cu.ics are in a ve-
X' nigh "1 rgree to be charged to the free
do .1 of your profs. It has b;en a torch
that has k'ndltd the of che people
agiinft u : . by enlightening their rea on.
Tnis c infi leritioTlt was, that «cca(ioned
the ill fated attack on your piper lift year,
which like all our other blundering
fchenes, hid effeSsdiametrically oppoliie
to th? intention. Ir recommended and
exten led the circulation cf your pa
per, b. b-if-ht into fuil luifre the character
of a person \\ hose name is as odious to
m a-; repu'illca iifiii itfelf, aid confirmed
-the fufpicio 1, too prevalent Wore, ag tinft
the views of our party. I have premised
t'lis contVffion, fir, to the end that the can
dorofit obtain your forgivenefsof the
part, a id f .tisfy yon entirely of the since
rity . ul good faith with which I aJJrefs
mylelf eo you in relation to the future.
I no.v proceed, without further preface
or apology, to submit to you in explicit
terms, that in as much as you have been
very iurtrtrne It.ll i 1 ruining our cause,
and can therefore b.ft contribute to re
treve it,the fo'lowlng a rangemem f, com
pact fuall be uiKlerftood to be iu fore. ,
and fliall be carricd into eseit as soon as
circu uft.inccs will permit. On your part
yau ire to louficler yntrfelf a, forever
turn* 1 over fro n the republican or patri
otic mrerett, which you hive hitherto fup
p Tted, into tile p .rty w huh is labouring
to u id 'riuine our pfefei'i free constitution,
to beak our connection with the repu'o
lie of France, to bring about a 1 intimate
u j'ron wuh the monarchy of Great Britain,
&si tafly .to introduce,by the aid of her ex
ample, her jnftnencef her money, and, if
requ .iite. her arms, a government of king,
lords; and commons; and you are to var>
and change the contents, comp'exion, ten
or, and tendency c"che National Gazette
so as to prom >te this hippy revolution in
the public affairs of the United States as
cxped tioufly an:! efficacioufiy as may be.
Our expectations fiomyau herein cannot
be better conveyed than by referring you
to the Gazeite of tile United Siaie.i, pub
lifhed by John Fenno, and observing that
yours is to inculcate the like a ici-repub
Jican doitrines, exhibit the like misrepre
sentations of fa£ts, and propagate the like
c ilumnies a hive di.tingniflied his )ar
f., ne.i mireilany: At the fame time that
ii! doubt not your sprightly, inveiitive ge
nius will ea.lly avoid the du'lnefs, repeti
tions, a d niar plot blunders which have
in a g «a t meafu. e defeated his laudable
irti .iu.io and zeal,
larc.u. afj. tacfc g:ca.4n<] momentous
fe,v,ceo. ymi are Co receive tile following
co;ap=iifdi.u.iJ, a..« advanta
ges over a id above such contingent profits
and perquilites as you may dei We from the
use and management of your press. Firfl
you will be admitted to discounts at the
ban c, to such amount, at such jiWs, and
with such renewals, as you may chufe, all
which will be covered under the molt per
fect fecrefy. 2. You will be let. into such
lecrets refpefting the rift> and fall of Bank
flock as, with the aid of your ditonncing
priviJege, will foo l enable you to become
a member of che b ink and a partner in its
profits. 3. As supplies of calh flow into
your pockets thro' these channels, you will
be enabled to make further to
wealth, by means of certain optical help'-
for discovering che approaching ebbs and
fliodiofthe lix per cents, the three per
cents, and the deferred debt, which are
hid fiWn profane eyes. 4. Youfhall (hare
handfomrly with the Editor of the Gazette
of the Uuiced States in the e nolHm nits he
draws from the patronage of the several
departments of the government, which
prefer his monarchical and Anglican press
for all their printing bufiaefs and official
publications. .There will doubtless be
m my other little douceurs and gratificati
on! flipping into your hands from lime to
time, bnt as they are not meant to be in
cluded in -the controfl:, but rather to be
merited.byyour special Zealand exertions,
they are not here enumerated.
These terms, you must allow, Sir, are
fair and generous ; and consequently whe
ther they fee accepted or rejected, no of-1
fence we hope v ill be taken at them.— '
None, you moy before, i; intended. We
proceed upon the maxim borrowed from
che only wile and well balanced govern
menc in the world, and very little belied
by our own experience, that every man ha
his p'ice. We have concluded, therefore
that you hare yonrs. Ifany other modi
fication of that we offer would make it
more palatable, it can eafiiy be fettled
—We well know the importance to
Come ltomachs, of form and disguise in the
doses adminiltered. Part'uilar perfom
would spit a naked bribe back into your
face, who would swallow it, without a
qualm, when pu into the shape of an ac
-c immoiation, and honeyed over with pro
fellions 6f friendlhip. But this is always -
mark of weakness. As the world grow?
more enlightened, unmeaning diftindion
lose their for<e witn men of sense and
judgment. I flatter myfelf therefore, tha:
the proposed arrangement, if in fttbftattce
approved v ill not be imp ded by any vul
gar or puiliilanimous fcnuples, on your
part, and th ic a speedy as vvel aX a favour
able ar.fwei will be tvanfmitted to, Sir,
Your refpeflfol
end well d fpofed fervan;
TANTALUS.
P. S. I o-nlttj;! to mention, tfi.it as poe
tical fame may, pofiibly. have more cliarin
for yon than money, nil the critics who
have been so furioufly biting, or if you
pleafti, barking at you, Hand ready on your
complying with the above propoftl, not
only to recant every word they have said
againfi you, but to make procl .mation to
all the world, either in pr.ife or verse, as
may be ctelired, that Apollo has presented
you with his own lyre, that the voice o!
the muses is in every note yor fmg, that
you dwell on the very pinnacle of Paruaf
fus, and that when you are disposed to
make .in excursion 0.1 Pegafns there is
not a single pot,ancient or modern,who is
fit to hold the stirrup to you. I can give
you his afiurance on the bed authority, as
having it from a quarter that can tell
much better what tbofe worthy gentle
men will do, than they can thcmrel.es.
Jjy ib, 17?J, t.
For the National Gazette.
A WRITER in Mr. Brown's Federal
Gazette el Wedoeflay, who fubferib-s
himfelf X. . has taken the liberty ot
pouring forth the most unqualified, rnjiif
tifiable, and illiberal .p.bufe, thai can be
well conceived to fiow from the pen cf any
rational being, and that, without the niofi
diitant fuadow of provocation, r.gairfl M.
Genet, reprcfentative rf the French ra
tion, no<v residing amongfl in. When 1
reflect upon the principles of the author of
that illiberal | iece, signed X. Y. 1 find
myfelf much at a loss what to think of him,
or to what to ascribe his verfatiiity. A
few weeks ago, upon the ariival of M.
Genet in our ci y, no tongue Was more
clamorous, no tongue more voluble in
praise of the French, their rninilter, and
che glorions cause in which they are en
gaged, than him whom 1 have grounds to
suppose the author cf that.prodii£tion. To
what then, in the name of altonilhment,
is to b. attributed his apoflacy, turbulence,
-md inconflflenc> ? The public will judge,
for they, in part, know the man.
Our tuchor remarks, " though then
may not be a doubt that thfe body of the
peopie tvifl) well to the cause of France, it
by no me-ain follows, that the liiCCtiou
or imperious conduit cf their fervanu will]
be encouraged or tolerated "
hut. Sir, can you adduce a single inllanee
in Who h the niinlfter of France has afte*, 1 •
liceiuioufiy or imptriouHv, or where l'e]
has deviated a jot trom that manly refti-'
tucle, and dignity of.. liarafler and condu4t.
wiichuiark at once both the gentleman
and fricad to buniaruty, tirtuiiiftaucts
which do equalhonor t-o IrimfelF, and die
discernment oi that nation who fen: him ?
—I believe not.
You fonietiines talk of the liberty of the
pr-Js, & a citizen's right of publishing his
Jentimcntt with decency. Ta the dignity
and utility of the former I believe you to
be an entire (tranger ; but as to the know
ledge of tie latter, namely, decency in
publilhing your lentimenfs, 110 man, I pre
lum?, who knows you, will befo rath au to
acctife you of any such thing.
Towards the close of your firfl para
graph, you tell 113. " that neither the peo
ple nor their rulers are d fpofed to wink at
insolence."—Rulers of the people of Arfie
rica I—The American people, Sir, rule
themselves, and, where a government, I ke
ours, is merely reprefeittative, the word in
your European sense of it is wholly mis j
applied. But, Sir. when you take up youi
pen again, it will be expected you prove
your charge of i. jolence.
Inanoth»rpla e you remark, that yov
think it " not uncharitable to conclude
hat those, who thus endeavor to impwfe
iniftaken ideas 011 tile mind of the min.iter.
are either young and ill -advised emigrants,
or firebrands employed for the deteftabh
pnrpofe of kindling the fiamr of war in the
bo(«m of the country' which protect,
them."
Guardian of peace, order, and decenc\
all hail ! Champ'o 1 o f integrity, to thee
we bend the knee. Forf >oth. then, th
F.nglili of the abo"e is, " The Fren»i
have lent here a Ma i. ignorant of hi. duty,
liable to be led astray by yeung, ill d.f
posed, iiid.A rt et rmigrant Such is th<-
opinion of Mr. X. 1 .(aliasA.B ) —foolilli
minuter—ru ned naiion'.
But, Sir, wny use emigrant as a term ot
reproach ? Are you the defendant of a
Kickapoo, and on this account claim pri
ority and ex lufire privileges ! Although
you be lineally descended from tawny roy
alty, I would not. believe me, even were I
an emigrant, yield to you The hint ought
to be trealU'-ed rp. tliat "desperate for
unes" will generally be the portion o.
desperate nie 11. '
1 will now, Sir, for tl'.e present, take my
leave o' you. but not Before I inform j'ou,
hit in a little time you iliall be presented
with a faithful mirror, whrch Ihali exhibit
you, not oily to yourfelt, but to the whott
world in your true colours and flattire,
; jch as you yourfelf have prepared and
Ikctched. I'll speak of you as you are .
H 'thi'g extenuate, i.or Jet itciuu ought it.
malice.
PADLUS.
July 11.
for the Kationjlll. Gazette.
A New Political Creed—for the use of alt
•whom it may cat.cern.
\X7HOF.VER would live peaceably in
Philadelphia, above ail things it in
'icccfl'n-y that he h;-ld the federal faith—
ind the federal faith is this, that there are
two governing powers it this country,
both equal. artd yet one fnperior : whic K >
t :;rh except every ode keep
without doubt he (hall be i,bul'ed everlalt
ingly.
The Briton is fnperior to the American,
ind the American is inferior to the Briton,
a id yet they are equal, and the Briton
ihali govern the American.
The Briton, while here, is commanded
to obey the American, and yet the Ameri
can ought to obey the Briton,
And yet they ought not both to be ohe
dient, but only one to be obedient. For
there is one dominion nominal of the
\meiican, and another dominion real of
the Briton.
And yet there are not two dominions,
but only out dominion.
For, like as we are compelled by the
Bririfh Confiiintion Book to acknowledge.
■ that jabjelis inuft fubniit themselves to
their monarchs, and be obedient to them
in all things :
So are we forbid by our federal execu
tive to fay, that we are at all influenced
y our treaty with Fra ice, or to pay re
gard to what it ent'orceth.
The American was rrc ited for the Bri
ton. and the Briton for the American.
And yet the American {hall he a slave to
the Briton., and the Briton the tyrant of
the American.
And Britons are of three denominations,
and yet only of one foul, nature, and sub
(iflency.
The Iriftiman, o;"irfinitejnipi;dencp.
The Scotchman, of cunning nvoft inferu
table :
And the Englifliman, of impertinence
altogether insupportable :
The only true and honorable gentlemen
of this our blefl. d country.
He therefore that would live i« quiet
mn(t thusthink of the Briton and the Ame
rican.
It is.furthermorc necefljry that every
gooa American lion Id believe ; n the infal
iibiiity ot the cxe. 11 ,ve, when its procla
mations are re e. bot d by Britons.
For'he true faith is. that we bePeve
and cont fs that the government is fail.hie
and infallible.
Fallible in its rfjJublii an nature, and in
fallible In its monarchical tendency, erring
in is state individuality aud unerring in
k» federal complexity.
So that tho' it be both failure and ir.
' al 'ible, yet it is not twain, lint one go,
v er n ment only, as having consolidated a!!
" a te doininion,in oider to rule with sway
uucentrouled.
This is the true federal faith, which ex
cept a man believe and practice faithfully,
beyond all doubt he Hull be cursed perpe
tually,
PHILADELPHIA.
SATUItDAT, July 13.
Governor Hancock, by proclamation
dated Bolton July 2d. ha? recognized A.
C. Dll Pi,line, vice consul from the re
public of France to the Commonwealth of
Mafluichwfetts.
The following is a lift of veflels belong
ing to the United States Pent inte St. Kitis'
>y English privateers. Barque Commerce,
Watts, tof George town—Brig Dispatch,
Marshal, of Bolton, brig Peter Augustus,
Robinfon,Philadelphia— -cbooner Harriot,
Brook*, Alexandria, Pol.jr Ctrrin
It. liUlld—Sloop—Kctich, Newbury port'
Sloop—N. York—Brig—LiHvrence, ditto'
hefides many others wnofe names our in ;
\>rmant could not rtcolltit,
Capt. O.liin, arrived here this week
rVomSt. Ftiftatia, informs that on the Bth
>f June last, he was chafed by a privateer
fih'ioner of fix guns and about twenty five
men, fitted out at St. Kitts ; but his vessel
leing a fact sailer. he kept on till he came
to anchor in the road and und»r the Fort
ofSt. Euftatia. when he was hoarded by
the privateer, the officer of which presen
ted a pistol at Capt. Odlin's bread and
threatened to take his life if he did not
pertrider fail and g,» out. Capt Odlin re
fufed, and told him to execute his thrtat if
he dared ; mentioning at the fame tine
that the papers could be produced to late
ly him to the prop', riy and c rgo The
officer offered fonie further threat . A
complaint of thi■ treatment was nude to
me governor 01 St. Eullatia, who treated
t very lightly.
The last accounts from France are vsry
favourable to the cause of the'repuMic.—
In addition to the victory over the Duke of
York ii w'-i.th his loss \\ as 1200 men, kil
led and disabled, there had also b.en an
engagement between the French and Spar
'iih forces, rear Bayonne, in which the
•p inia i!i met with a severe repulse and
1 '.ere driven back to St. Jaim de Luz.
huh is on the frontier. 111 their retreat
oeing stopped by a river.great nmtibei pe-
Iherl 111 attempting to f\\ im it.The French
returned to Bayonne, in and near which
ley have a p«werfol army. In France
here was p'enty of every species of provi
lionp, and 111 genera! .at moderate prices.
Every impartial ftrang«r. that had fn op
portunity of feeing, represented the idea of
foreign conquelt as at.fo'hitely in possible.
TheEnglilh vefT.ls of wjirhad received or
lerstoliop all American veflels carrying
; jroviSons to Franre i several had been
Teizcd in confequelice, and carried into
their ports. Six hundred thotifand men
had entitled in the middle departments of
France sn one month, and three millions
could be raised, 5f necrfl'iry, of able and
determined man. The profpefts of their
this year's crojji were very favourable,and
more ground under < ultivarion than at any
former period under ths monarchy.
The brig Boone, Brown, of New York,
bound from Port au Prince to Philadelph a
was stopped and plundered oa the Ift of
June last by the Biitilh privjteer Jofepli
•and Mary, Capt. D.\vid Harris, of K.'.igf
t-au—then mac e a prize of.a.id ord red
J arnica ; retaken on the 4th by a FMnch
-4 and carried to tiie Cape, fsoin whence
me fa led with tiie fltet 011 the 24th, after
being released by the ;4 ; and arrived here
last Tuefd.-y. The American schooner
Cleopatra i> arrived lierel'rOjn Corunna—
The day Ihe li ft it, fell in with an En
glish .'hip from Livcapooi, from the
ip aii of which they received much
.1! usage without the lea.it provocation.—
O 1 the 30th fliefeli it; with another Eng
lifli (hip who not only treated them with
the basest language and brutality, bat
dragged the fnpercargp on board, and
.vhile there plundered ili« schooner of her
ive (let k, w:, es,a;:d various oti.cr articles.
File /hip's name was covered over with
painted tanvas, to prevent being known.
Oiher ahu es without number are daily
iomtpitted on the lubjecjs of the United.
Mates, at fca, by S. itifh veffeli.
On Ttifffday lat at Baltimore
22 fail of vel!'cls r f>;irt of tiie fleet fromv
Cape I ancois, with a great number of
> iTengtrs. These are only fcatrered vef.
f. 1; trurn a fleet of 1 30 fail faiti to be bouni
to Baltimore with joco pafiengers on
hoard Ihe merchants and inhabitants
of Baltimore are raking mcaftares for the
relief of these people, who are moitly re*
dured from aiHutnce to a slate of the most
distressing indigence. Tho', 113 men, it may
be the only of the American public to re
lieve the r e firanners, \et it is certain that
their diftrell'as may be principally attribu
ted to that arillocracy Of colour, which
more or less, prevails throughout thcWeft
Indies, and embracing the narrow spirit
of the old 1 rench nobility, has always re
futed even a moderate iharc of equal poiiticnl pnv!!?£?S with the mtilattoes of th j
variou- descriptions, who have yet on ma
ny occalious fh "n themselves worthy o
being ackno* ed? d the Cons of free men
The French p. iriotie r„ciety of Philadel
phi a have alreai > raise I 800 dollars by fab
fcription, which s hourlv increallng, to b
applied 10 the benetu offuch as may arriv
liere.
The jictocnts of Martinique being take
by a Hritifli fl et, prove falfe j that id in
was dill in ihe hands of the republic oil th
24th of Jun ■, and every probability of it
continuing so. AH American vefTels going
in and coming out of Martinique were
seized by Uritilli privateers. Admiral
Gardner had given up the idea of besieging
the ifl iml, and departed. This it is said
was owing to a declaration of the arido
cratic party in the island, that it it once
1 fun emlered to the they would give
po quarter to man, woman or children,
cf th? republican inhabitants —As ye
rate, it P.iall be rritofured unto you.
[Fvrlh :r particulars of the troul'es ai Cape
Fraicois, jro*n Baltimore p.tpert.]
Yelterdav fjuly 4) arrived in this port,
t'le fchOo.Ter E.irbara, capt. Joseph White,
in 11 days from C ipe Francois, who in
form;. th it 3 days before he failed, the
Cape wis set on fire, which hid dedroyed
the principal p irt ,of the tov. n. and !"•
thinks could not be flopped until the whole
was cpnfilmed. The cause of this difader
IV3I, the new commifl.iry of the Cape
breaking general CJalbaud. tor m:lcondu£t,
and ordering him for France, and then if
filing orders, that all ofln-ers and seamen
Jfcocld be on b iard of their vessels by 9
o'clock i i the evening. The seamen exas
perated at these orders, rase, with gen.
Galbatid at c':eir head, anr went up to the
government house, where the comnv.lf.irv
quartered, in order to know the cause ol
these orders. When they appeared near
it, they were fired on by the negroes and
nmlattoes, on which an engagement com
- menced, and continued from the 20th to
the 23d ul:. during which the negroes
spared neither men, women or children.
Women} and orhers, who had hid them
selves in their dwelling honfes, in order
for protection, on the (ire reaching them
were seen leaping from the second dory,
and on their being taken up, as nothing
ftemed too inhuman for these desperadoes,
were immediately thrown into the flames
O 1 IV 23d, the seamen, after a bloody
conflict, were forced to abandon the iflani',,
when a'.l the inhabits its fled, Tome without
saving an individual article, except what
they had on their backs—Rut two mer
chants were able to save their books.—
Capt. Barney, of this port, who was at the
Cape when the conflict began, went on
(bore with forae of his m«n, and f.ived a
con'fiderable sum of nio-ifey, belonging to
Mr. Dutilh—Capt. White failed with a
fleet, which confided of 255 fail.
Capt. White parted with 100 fail of the
above vefl'il'. off Moghma, bound to diffe
rent ports. Philadelphia, New York, Bos
ton, !zc. These vefTels are entirely dedi
tute of their papers, at is also our inform
ant, having failed unexpectedly.
Capt. White spake the (loop
capt. Hall, on Tburfday lad, bound for
this part, who informed him, that the
English had made an rtack on Martinique,
in which the French had gained considera
ble advantage.
By a French gentleman, who came pas
senger with capt. White, we have the
following datement.—
The mariners in the harbor of the Cape,
being provoked with the insults whiiji the
free wiulattoes cad to llicni, entered the
tity the 20th of June, at 40 minutes after 3
o'clock in the evening ; the mariners were
2,500 i 1 number, Trie mulattoes, fearful
of being overcome, retired to the prison of
the city, named Jeole, and reieafed more
than 1200 negro and mulatto prisoners,
chiefly taken among the insurgents, and a
great part of whom had been in irons more
than fix months ; the fame free niulattoes
armed immediately the negro (laves of the
city, who at the fame iuftatvt fired npon
all the white people they met ; the (ire
jii.ms blazed all the night. The 21ft a great
nuV.ber of the brigands of the plain entered
the cicy by a principal poll (la Folfette) of
which the free mulattoes were in pofieffion
The negroes set tire, the fame evening, to
the house of la Feore, in the dreet called
Confell ; the fame brigmds forced into
different houses, beat up the whites who
were there concealed, and conducted them
to the barracks, where they kept thein
i>rifoners ; the brigands pillaged the fame
Tionfes, and carried their plunder out o!
the city, through the Foflerte. The 23d
the engagements were more obdinate, and
more considerable. They fay, that this
fame evening all the whites who had been
sheltered in the barracks, where they had
been conducted, were unmercifully mur
dered by order of the chiefs of the bri
gands ; neither women or children were
spared ; several parts of the city were laid
in ashes ; the fame day a number of whites,
who ran towards the harbor to escape the
ferocity of the insurgents, were killed.
The whites were equally weakened by the
brigands, and the fires were general ; the
conflagration began at day break, and con
tinued til! night,"
The fourth of July Wis celebrated at
Havre-de-Grace, in Maryland, in a dyle
truly republican. Mr. Samuel Smitlv
merchant, of that place, gave an enter
tainment in honour of the day, to which
he invited all the citizens of the town,
without exception.
The company, which nfiembled at his
house in confequcnce of this invitation,
confided oi near an hundred men, women
and children.—Guns were fired, toads
were drank, in which our French friends
were not forgotten —age, youth and child
hood mixed in the sportive dance upon the
green, and the fedivefcene concluded with
aprocetlion through the town by this happy
little society, preceded bythe cap ofl'.berty,
and music.
F.xtraS of a letter from a gentleman in
Connecticut to his friend in this city
dated May e6, 1793.
" I refpeft the French, I glory in the re
volution which they have accomplished, 1
consider their cause as the caflfe of human
nature, of the world, of God ; I think they
killed Louis the XVJ. without law ; but
1 am glad lie is dead, and I wilh it were
polfible, by bne thrust of the exterminating \
sword to extirpate every king, and every
sign of 1 oyalty throughout the world ; with
the sole exception of the great, good and
unfortunate Stauiflaus of Poland. The
general sentiment of thisftate, and of New
Kngland, is in favour of France ; and the
general belief js, that the French will tri
umph."
On Monday evening, recording to ad
journment, met at the eoffee house a num
ber of merchants of thh city, to take mea
Cures into consideration for preventing the
failing of the French armed brig Little
Democrat. A' committee was appointed to
wait on the governor, to inform him, from
proofs in their power, that the said brig
was ar'ied here on a cruize againd fotue
of the powers now at war with trance,
and requefling her detention, as being fitted
out contrary to the proclamation ct the
Preiident 6f the United States. The go
vernor and heads of departments allured
the cosimittee of every exertion in their
power, and the secretary of (late informed
that the brig would not fail till the return
of the Proficient from Maiint Vernon, who
was looked for 0:1 Wednesday the 10th.
The meeting then unanimously agreed,
to set on loot, amongst the citizens at large,
whose .families and property appeared to
be menaced, afubfeription, to raise 6000
dollars, through the medium of the banks,
to be placed in the governor's hands, for
the defence of the p, rt; under an expec
tation, that the legifliture at iheir next
fellion, would provide for the reimburse- j
ment.
A little reflection on the melancholy
events which have lately-drenched in
blood the flreets of Cape Franceis, will
give rife to much uneasiness for the fate of
the convoyed fleet which left that place 011
the 24th lilt.
If" a rt/.ewi; taken of general Galbavid'i
conduct, it mud appear inexcul'able: How
could a recourse to arms polfibly terminate
his difference with the commitTioners ?—
What motive could have actuated a man
in blowing up the flame of a civil war,
when a pei fonal injury only was the pre
text ? An appeal to the (ovcreign power
of the French nation was the only poflibie
means of terminating the dispute. Can
general Galbaud, covered with the blood
of thousands of the colonifls, now make
that appeal ? No ; he cannot be able
even to find an excuse for his condufl, if
brought before the tribunal ot the nation.
It is therefore not improbable* that he
(liould, in imitation of Dumourier's cim
du£t, life his influence to deliver as much
of the Meet as in his power, ii*o the hands
of the enemies of ihe republic, and li;s in
fluence with the armed part of the fleet
appears unfortunately great, if their union
in favouring his views againit the Cape are
adverted to. [Gen. Mv.~]
Zxtr ail of a letter from Haiti more, dated
July 8.
" Oa the 4th inlt. the anniversary of
Independence was celebrated here with
every demonllration of Joy. Hcart-telt
fatisfattion was depicted on every connte
nauce, and the alacrity of all to honour the
Day that raised them to the rank of free
men, presented a fpeftacle truly augwlt ;
compared with which the tinlei frippery or
a venal court, and the hired adulation of a
/ting's birth (lay (a month ago) dwindle be
low" pi«my fWture into nothing — and leave
the difguded miud to contemplate fome
nting.—lt is remarkable that among the
different companies that celebrated the
fedival of Independence here, there was
only one that,in their toads,mentioned the
Congress, although all of them made ho
norable mention of the Congress of 1776.
Thismud undoubtedly have been an over
light but, their silence was emphatical
exprejfun.'' 1 '— _ ( '
Among the toads drank in this city on
the4th or July, was the following, the 11 rh
iti order, by one of the officers of the 4th
regiment of militia of Philadelphia affen)-
bled to celebrate theday>vi2. "The Militia
of PsrrtnfyWania; nlay the -legiflat&re at
their next fellion so alter and amend the
mnUia act as to make it rejp lit able,
On TliUrfiUy last the President cf the
United States returned to this city, from
Virginia.
It is not a hazarded conjecture, re
remarks a correspondent, to fay that the
ill treatment ourvell'els have uniformly met
with from British privateers, is in confe
rence of inftrtifiions from their court.
The oomlirnert powers, after making sure
of Jj^umourier in Holland, using him as a
tool to difurganize the army, in his retreat
altifting the rebels in Brittany at the fame
time, and then, while their armies were
in full force on the Frontier of France,
catifing Dnmouner openly to second their
efforts, thought that the cause of liberty in
France mult fink under the prefl'ure of
so many difcotiraging circumflances. T hey
have not vet learnt to estimate the energy
of a whole people riling t» recover their
rights; but may ere long 4 be made wiTer
by experience. However, tinder this im*
predion, at this decisive (as they conceiv
ed it) period, orders left Madrid, oar cor
respondent conjectures, to the Spanish a
geiits here to vex us in one quarter, While
Britifli privateers wtfre riirefteti to insult
and plunder us on the high fea§. It is not
difficult to fee from all this that we are
deeply concerned in the noble ftruggl» of
the French, and if so, to what will the
tame forbearing difpofitionhitherto mani
fefted by our executive lead ? Disgrace,
Slavery and Ruin.
The fchoonerFriendfltip in 14 days from
St. Thomas's informs, that a Damfh fri
gate had brought in there an Englifli priva
teeffor infult'ing the Danilh flag, and for
firing at the fort in St. Croix.
[From a correspondent.]
The following extract of a letter has lately
appeared in one or two of the Daily
Prints of this city.—
Extract of a letter from Kiv.gflon {Jamai
ca) i 4 .'/j Jane, to a gentleman in this
city.
-J have my fears that some s& that
may be deemed partial, or the imprudence
pffoine wrong-headed people with you,
(for 1 know there are such) may involve
you in the war, which I pray Cod avert!
Ydu may be allured that all denominations
of people under the British government,
view every act of yours with a scrutinizing
eye, an<l pretfiiccs are not wanting to
catch at paragraphs, and put the worst con
ftfufiion on them : this tends to inflame
| i!>e minds of the people credulous to believe,
and'ready to receive every imprefficn'un
favotrable to America. Your printers and ;
writers should be circumfpeft, and the
government rigid in its neutrality, which
-tMiiyfan make you flourilh."
Was there ever a more glaring in
stance of char alter iftic impcrtincncethanthe
preceding! They view m with ?.
jcrutinizing eye ! and do not their national
Ihips and privateers most \aMen\.\y Jcruti
ni-Lt every American vessel they fall in
with, returning t:ym the French Weft
Indies, or elsewhere ; plundering the pro
perty, pillaging the cargoes, and insulting
the mailers an" crews under pretence of
carrying French property, or with no pre
tence at all ?—But, as formerly they nlade
war on us for. not tamely fuffering our
fclves to he taxed in all cajes wha'Joevcr
by tifurpation of their parliament, they
now menace to make war upon us for in
serting paragraphs iu our papers ! Rely
upon it, Meflieurs Jamaica men, every true
American printer and editor will always
do their duty ; and as they once largely
contributed to the humiliation an.l chas
tisement of the tools and bullies of a ty
rant, they are again ready to ofter their
services, wheneveroccafiOn demands.]]
Pl* Several communications, received
yesterday, will appear in our next. A
Ctiltonier at Potighkeeplie will he so good
as to transmit No. 4' 5 of the Poughkeepfie
Journal ( which th;-Editor cannot procure
here) and his rcquelt ihall be complied,
with. '
For thf National Gazette.
The Marjeilles Hymn.
Attempted in English.
A RISE ye geu'rous youth of France
And mark the glory ofth:«day;
'C.ainlt us the tyrant-throng advance.
And high the bloody flag display. [twice.]
Our fields ferocious hirelings dare,
And savage bowlings reitd the sky,
They conw I and from your arms they
tear
The prattling babes who bleeding die !
To arms ye brave band,
In firm battalions rife,
March 011, march on,
Left blood, disguise
Your dwn native land.
We. iiarch, we inarch,
Leti'blood disguise .
Our own, native land.
What would this herd of conjttr'd kings
Vile (laves and traitors, ghastly throng I
For whom the chain ignoble brings
The bond-age we havefuffered long i twice
In vengeance, French, let every breafl
WithfweHing transport ceafelcfs burn,
Fair freedom teaches to detell
Tlic fiavcrjr tbsf bid r«t'am» To anns ©v.
What ! wonld these proud outlandilfo
loes
Be legiflaton in our land ?
What ! would these hireling crowds
oppose
And lay in dust otfr warlike band ! twice
Great God ! (hall then th'enflaving rod
Subject us to our former state ?
Shall a vile Despot's sovereign nod
Decide at will our abject fate 1 To arms
Our warriois now the glory {hare,
By them you fall, by them fu-eceed ;
Spare then, the wretched viitims spare,
We arm to die or make you bleed, tivica
But lo ! thcfe sanguinary Lords
Joyous exert their savage pow'r,
These bloody tyrants lift their swords ;
And their own country's peace devour.
To arms ire.
Tremble proud tyrants, traitors blulh,
Quick, quick r*lign the victors' plume,
The arm of justice, raif'd to crtifh,
Descends and you must meet your doom.
' (twice.)
All, all are soldiers now in France,
And (hould -we fall, mw legions rife,
Our youth to ji in the advance
And learn all danger to despise Toannsirc
Children»
With joy we will .mume the trust
When d< wn dea..i a hill our fathers roll,
Then than ue tind their sacred dust
Will animate th'afpiring foul- {twice. )
Less zealous to lurvive our fires
Than (hare the death we all contemn,
Their foils a glorious pride inspires
T'avenge their wrongs or follow them.
To arms ire.
Oh ! "sacred love of country" aid
Ouryengetul arms, our footfteps guide,
And Liberty 1 celefiial n a d,
Adhere to thy defenders' fide, twice.
When vietory our tents. o.all leave
To fpreari the joyous tidings round,
Tliy triumph arid our f.ime (hall give
Our enemies their lafiing wound. To aims
Our native foil and social love
Together limit onr defues,
Then ever let our fouls improve
The glow which virtues wilh inspires. twice
By union H'.all our pow'rs incicafe.
Our tyrant foejfhall iiug their chain ;
And then the happy French (hall cease
To chant the harlh incongruous drain,
To arwis ire.
ALA.
July i 2.
„ - l i' i i il -
NOTIVICA TiO N.
LETTERS remaning ia tbe'.Po ft-Office at
Eation, Pennf) Ivanla.
fs One for Mr. Michat/ Bokjl, in WeiCenberg
township, Northampton ccurty.
il Three for Mrs. Elizabeth Cochran,
Settlement, Northampton county.
" One for Mr. Michael Jd Donel'y bricklayer*
Eaftoh, Pennsylvania.
F. SFERING, Poftmaftet.
Eaftjn, July x, 17^,3.
JuJl Publijhcd
By Johnston and Justice,
No. 41, Chefnut-Sneer, and may be had at
No. ac9, Maiket-Street,
Trice one ar.d Jour pence has penny,
Travels through America,
•A Pjcm —by Michael Fcr*£st.
CONTENT^.
VOYAGE from Ireland t(* Newfoundland
Description of Newfoundland—Voyage from
Newfoundland to Acid.effc to' Columbia,
to the Boftonians, a.,d to Bunker's Kill—Voyage
from Boston to Baltimore—Observations on pa/r
---ing going to "Philadelphia—A view
of a youth swimming in the Schpylkifl and
f P°rtu3g on its margin—-Description of Philadel-
Vula—A fraternal Icene—A moral diduced lioni
the fraternal fefcrie—Battleof the kegs in Phila
delphia—Sailing from Philadelphia to Borden
:o*vn in a flage boat-*—Philofophical contempla
tion with refpeft to human happiness—View oi
Uurirn c 'ton and Briftoi—A delicatc view of a
voung fady bathing in a fyfvan pool—Ro'.anda 111
che t rove i a I'oral fcenc—Moral from the distress
of Ro*landa—Addreis to Rolanda's inconftanc
swain— The approach of Winter—A Winter
Storm—The approach of Spring—A view of the
lolatfyrtem on a fine fulnmer night;— Rural 00-
ie.'vatlum—Battle of Trenton — Praise of Gene
ral Walhington—Daphne and Stiephor, a rujal
scene—Voyage to Charleston, South-Carolina—
Dclcription of "Charleston ana the Ladies of Ca
rolina—Verses to a "Carolina Lady of
Ch?»!eflon — Address to Fortune—Vtrfes ad
drefled to a young Gentleman at the Ch?rlefton
College-Academy — A fpecimcn of unlimited
lublime poetry —Man ihall be free, a new son r ,
•
Wants a Place,
\ SINGLE MAN, whowritej a good hand
and understands Accounts. Me would en
gage as bar-keeper at any decent tavern, or could
make himfelf very ufefulin the more
duties of a counting house . He would wait on a
single gentleman, travelling, or otherwise. He
can procure good reCoinrnendat ons for diligence,
sobriety and honeily, in the iine of any bufine£s
he may engage in.—Enquire at the office of tliA
| Mationa' No, *09, Market, ftrett..
INew Pennsylvania Militia Law.
[Continued from our
Section VI. And be it further enacted by
the authority aforefaid, That the militia
shall be officced as follows :To each dfvi
lion one Major General, and two Aids de
Camp,: with the rank of Major; to each
brigad* one Brigadier General, with one
Bi igade Infpeftor, to serve also as Brigade
Major, with rank of a Major; to each re
giment, one Lieutenant Colonel Com
mandant, and to each battallion, one Ma
jor : to each company of infantry, (inclu
ding light infantry and grenadiers) one
Captain, one Lieutenant, one Eufign,
four Sergeants, four Corporals, one Clerk
one Drummer, and one fifer or bugler :
that there fh"II be a regimental flafT, to
confiil of one Adjutant and one Quarter
Mailer, to rank as Lieutenants ; one Pay
Mailer, one Surgeon and one Surgeon's
Mate, one Sergeant Major, one Drum
Major, and one Fife Major ; there shall
be to each company of artillery, one Cap
tain, two Lieutenants, fonr Sergeams,
four Corporals, fix Gunners, fix Bombar
diers, one Drummer, and one Fifer, and to
each troop of Horse, there fl-.a 1 be One
Captain, two Lieutenants, one Cornet,
•four Sergeants, four Coruorals, one Sad
ler, one Farrier and one Trumpeter ; there
shall be an Adjutant General appointed
for the whole Militi.i-
Section VII. And be it further enaSed
by the authority aforefaid, 1 hat the Ad
jutant General, Majors General, Briga
diers General, and Brigade Infpeftor3,
(hall be appointed and cornmiffioned by the
Governor; the div (ion and brigade Olir
ccrs to be refrding within their rtlpcftive
division and brigade bounds ; that the
Majors General shall appoint their own
Aids-de-Camp, out of the line of Cap.
tains or Subaltern' ; that the field officers
of each regiment shall appoint their ref
peftive regimental (lass : that the Lieute
nant Colonels, Majors, Captains, Lieutc
nanto and Enfig s, shall be eleftetl in
form and manner hereinafter mentioned
and provided for : that all cornmiffioned
Offipers shall be cornmiffioned for seven
years, and fh 1! take rank according to
the date of their commissions, an 1
when two of the fame grade, bear an
equal date, then their rank fnall b: deter
mined by lo>, to be drawn by them be
fore the commanding Officer of the bri
gade. regiment, battalion, company, or
detachment.
Section VIII. And be it.further entitled
by the authority aforefaid. That the duty
of the Adjutant General, fhail be to dif
tribute ail orders from the Governor as
Commander in Chief of the Militia of the
fta e, to the several corps : to attend all
public teviews, when the Governor shall
revie.v the Militia p to obey all orders
from him, relating to tile carrying into
ex cution, and p r.'efting the fyttem of
'military difcit.line, ellablifhed by thisaft,
to furnifh blank forms of the different re
turns that may be required, and to ex
plain the principles, on vv ich they (bould
be made to receive, from the several Offi
cers of the difF.rent corp3 throughout the
slate, returns of the Militia under their
command ; reporting the actual fituati
on of their arms, accoutrements and am
munition, their delinquencies, and every
other thing which relates to the general
advancement of good order and diicipiine;
all which the several Officers cf the divi
fions, brigades, regiments and battalions,
are hereby required to make, in such
manner -as the governor (hall direst ; so
that the said Adjutant G neral may be
furnifbed there-with ; from all which re
turns, he fnall make a general return, of
all the Militia of the (late, and lay the
fame before the Governor, and a duplicate
thereof, before the President of the Uni
ted States : that the said Adjutant Gene
ral, before he enters upon the exercise of
the duties of his office, (hall give bond
with two or more fufficient sureties, in
the penalty of five thousand dollars, con
ditioncd for the due and faithful perfor
mance of the said duties, and shall, in full
compensation for his services, receive a
vearly salary of tight hundred dollars.
Section IX. Ar.dbeitfurther evaSedby the
authority aforefaid. That it fnall be the dutv
of the brigade infpeftors, to attend the
regimental and battalion meetings of the
militia composing their several brigades,
during the time of their being under
arras; to iufpeft their arms, ammunition
anj accoutrements ; to superintend 'heir
exercise and manoeuvres, and introduce
throughout the slate, the fvftem of milita
ry discipline established by this ast, a3 well
as such orders as they fha]' from time 'to
time receive from the Governor, as Com
mander in Chief of the Militia ; to make
returns to the adjutant-general, at least
once in every year, and at such stated
time or times as the Governor fhail
direst, of the Militia of the brigade to
which he belongs, reporting therein the
a&ual Ctuation of the arms, accoutrements
and ammunition of the several corps, and
every other thing, which in his judgment
may relate to their government, and the
general advancement of good order and
military discipline ; that it shall moreover
be the duty of the laid brigade-infpeftors,
to superintend the elections of the field offi
cers ; to 1 procure and furnifh arms, accou
trements, ammunition, drums, fifes, bugle
horns, carriages for the transportation of
baggage, and other articles that may be
wanted (or the use cf their refpeftive
brigades, and to do all and every such
other duties as arc enjoined upon them by
this ast, in form and ftanner therein pre
fcribed,and in fullcompcnfation for all their
services, each of the said brigade-infpeftors
(hall receive the yearly salary of two hun
dred dollars; and each of the said in
fpeftors, before he enters upon the duties
of h s officc, (hall give bond, with one or
more fufficient sureties, in the penal Turn
of one thousand dollars, conditioned for
the due and faithful performance of the
said duties; and for the faithful accounting
for, according to law, end paying of all
the monies-which fhail come to his hands
by virtue - os this ast, when thereunto
lawfully required ; and each of the said
infpeftors shall once in every twelve
months, make out complete accounts of
all the monies received by him, and of his
expenditures, and return the fame to the
adjutant-general, and on failure of ac
counting as aforefaid, each infpeftor (hall
forfeit and pay, for every neglect, the
sum of fifty dollars, to be applied as other
fines are direftcd to be applied by this ast ;
and on the death, removal, or resignation
cf any of the infpeftors, f ich infpeftor,
his executors or adminiilrators, shall, on
the reasonable demand, in writing, of his
fueeeCor in office, or of any other person
who (hall be appointed by the Governor,
to receive the fame, deliver up to the said
successor, or other person as aforefaid, all
and singular the books, duplicates, returns
and other papers belonging to, Ot in use in
the said office, and on refufal thereof, he
or they, so offending, (Va'.l forfeit the sum
of one thousand dollars, and the neceilary
costs of prosecution, to be recovered by
the said fuccefifor in office, or other person
duly authorized as aforefaid. upon indict
ment, bill, plaint, or information, or by
action of debt, in any court of rccord
wi hin this slate, to be applied as other
military fines are directed to be applied by
thisaft, and in cafeof a second refufal, such
person or persons so refufing, fhali fuffer
as well the said penally, as the further
punishment of fix months imprisonment,
without bail or main prize, and the judges
of the courts where fucli penalty (hall be
recovered, (hall order the said commit
ment accordingly.
£To be continued-J
METEOROLOGICAL OtsEkf
July *793.
V. Il'Bar-jjn• 7'her, ty.-nj. Tfcatber
Tuesday, 2■ 6| 29. 8 77 w. Fair.
ll 29. 75 St w.
tVean.Jday, 3. oj 29 9 74 £. Chuny.
31 3". c St> do, do.
Ttiurjaay, 4 ol 30.00 70 h. ~ioudy
3! -0* c 83 S; W Ftairr.
frittay, 5. 0| 29 97 7° (N. W fy'r.
31 29. fj 9" S. VV rif-
Saturday, 6, 0 29.95 7® W. jUioudy.
320 9 91 do. 'SiCurfy,
Sunday, 7. t>| 29. 9 73 ~ ~ Fa".
3) 50. o SX jK. w. <<o.
MunJay, 8. 6 30. 7 72 | 11, Cloudy.
3 30. 7 85 , do. Fair.
I> R I C £ CURRENT-
Dollars. Cents.
(too Cents make x dollar.)
AHES, pot per ton i2od/t> t2jd
pearl ditto 134 d to i^od
Bacon, flitches per lb Bto 9c
Ihoulders do 71
Beef. Bolton per barrel ll<i
Country do
Beer. American in bottles
lncl"ding bottles per doZ. id 40c
ditto per barrel 4<l (j'c
Bees wax per lb 26c 28
Brandy. Coniac per gal 90c 100
common do 80c to
Butter in kegs per lb joc. tic
Cheese, Conn try per lb 8c 13c
— Englilh igc
Chocolate 15c 18c
Coal per bufiiel 24c 331:
Codfiili per cwt 3d 53c
Coffee per lb 14c 16c
Copperas per cwt id 67c
Cordage, American per cwt 7(1 67c 8d
Cotton per lb 26c 38c
/lax per lb uc 12c
Klaxfeed per bufli. 96c
flour fuperfine per barrel 6d. 30c
common id
Bur-middlings, bed Sd
Meal Indian per bbl. 3d 13c
Rye, do 3d 33c
Gin, Holland per cafe 4d 66c
per gallon 80c 90c
Glnfeiig 23c 24c
Gunpowder, Fine glazed per qr e ' 411
Grain, Barley per hulhel id
Bell (helled per bulhel 2d 67c
Buckwheat per baihel 40c
Indian corn eoc
Jersey, do 63c
Oats • 35c
Rye 60c
"Wheat 53c to idaoc
Hams per lb 9c to 10c
Hemp, imported per ton I2od 146d67c
American per lb 4c 5c
Hides, raw per lb 9c 11c
Hops 28c
Honey perlh -C 7
Indigo, Carolina per lb id id 402
French I<l 20c 11167 c
Iron, Bar per ton 84d
Calling* per cwt 41!
Kail-rods per toil ioi<l 33c
Pig 2 4d
Sheet 173 d 33c
Irons, fad 133 d 331.
I.aril hogs per lb 9c ice
Leather, foal per lb 17c 20c
Myr'le wax perlb 12c.
Molaiies pergallon 44c 47c
Milliard, flour, in bot. per doz, id 20c
second quality, per doz. H-t
Nails, 8d icd I2d and 2©<l per lb. 101
Oil. Linseed per gallon 66
Olive 87c
per cafe ad 50c
Pepper per lb 38c
Pimento jgc
Pitch per bbl Id 73c 2d
Porter per cask . sc! 33c
London per doz id 60c
Amer. hot. in.clu. id 60c
Pork. Burlington, per bbl J4d 67c
Lower county 13d
Carolina od
Rice per cwt 3d 45c
Rum, Antigua per gal id
Barbadoes 87c
Country, N. E. 60c
Jamaica id 16c
Saltpetre per cwt I4d 33c
Salt, Allum, perbulh 33c
Cadiz 25c
Litbon 27c
Liverpool 33c
Snaksroot perlb 2CC42C
Snuff, per doz. bot. <jd jd 60c
per lb 33c 40.1
Soap, Brown per lb (•■
White 5?
Siarch perlb -c
Sugar, Havannah, white, per 11» 14c 16.
Brown 10c 1 k
Mulcovado per cwt 9c 12c
Lump per lb 21c
Loaf, fmgle refined, 22c
double ditto lie
Tallow, refined, per lb 194
Tar, Ncw-Jerfey 24 gal per bbl 1 d
Carolina, 32 gal 2d
Tea, Hyson perlb 93c id 281.
Souchong 50c 92c
Bohea , 33c 36c
Tobacco. James River, bell 4c! 33c
Inferior 3d 33c
Old 4d 67c
Rappahannock 3d 33c
. Coloured Maryland 5d 33c 8d
I>nrk 2d 40c
Long-leaf 2d 40c
Eaftern-lhore sd 2d 2^c
Carolina, new 2d 7c 3d
Old 3d 33c
Turpentine per bbl sd 33c
Wine, Madeira, p. P. ljCd 226 d
Lisbon iaod i?.sd
Teneriffe per gal 63c
Sherry 90c to id2cc
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to l»e fold at the rrfoe&iVe Book: Stores of
"Jofepb Cruljhank arid Yb*nas Deb/m, and ma\
be had at the Printing office, No. 209, Mar
ket-Street.—— T Price eve eighth of a dollar. ]
LETTERS,
AddreiTed to the Yeomanry of the
United States:
Containingfame Oofervations on Funding
and Ra':k Syjlems:
BY an AMERICAN FARMER.
A FEW COPIESOF THE
TRANSACTIONS
Of the Society in/litutei in the State of
New-York, for the promotion of
AGRICULTURF. ARTS, and MANU
FACTURF.S,
May be had at this Office.
JTrice half a dollar.J
jujl PubUjheJ,
And to be Sold at the Office of the National
Gazette, No. 209, Market-street,
That celebrated little Book, entitled—
SURE and CERTAIN METHODS
of at!aining a
LONG
AND
HEALTHY LIFE.
Written by
LEWIS CORNARO, an Italian NoVetnan,
When he was near an Hun Ired Ytars of Age
Wiih a recommendation by the H >n. Joseph
Addison, (Author of the Spe&ator)
I n tltt following Words 1
" was or an infirm conftitutlort
till about forty, when b> steadily peifift
mg m the course of life recommended in this lit
■le book, he recovered a peiftrft fta'e of health,
itifcmuch that at fourfcore he publiflied thia
•york. He lived to give a third and fourth edi
tion of it 5 and having plfTed his hundredth
year, died without pain or agony, like one who
'alls afletp. The treatile I mention has been
taken notice of by fevrral eminent authors, and is
written with such a fpiritof cheerfulnefs, religion,,
and good sense, as are the natural concomitants
of temperance and sobriety. The mixture of
he old man in it, is rather a recommendation
-han a discredit to it.'*
N. B Toe London edition has Jo 3. for 6/5*
This American edition, handjomely kthmd ar.d let
tered, fr>r 7/3 only. I. a. w 7 w.
FORS AL E, *
1 birteen Hundred and Sixty Acres
of excellent
Farming or I'obacco Lands,
LYiNG in the count) of Anahrrfl-, in the
Itaie of Virginia, on one of the principal
...inches of James River, within fix miles of the
'acter, from is -avigable foi b>ats of tea
u twelve iohs burthen. —Besides the advantages
>t these lands, for the farmer or cultivator of to
acco, they are supposed, fro*n a small though
uccrlsful experiment, made by the late c«lonel
v.hii\velJ, to contain an abundance cf metals,
vhich, if not of a pfecious (as has been even
t ppoled) arc certainly of a very valuable kind
• he better, hout-ver, to afcerta-n this fadl, and
lice the purehafer on a life footing, info naz
aidouj a bufintfs, as all thole fubrerranecus ie»
marches, without the utmost certainty of an
abundance of the ore, is luppofed to be,
very r<* a fonat>le and nfcefTary alJiffance or indul
--ncc will be rendered th fe inclined to make the
"■xperitTif nt, as well as pvery other nerefury in*
1 .rmation given by the Editor of this gazette, in
Philadelphia, or
JOHN NICHOLAS,
Chariottcfvilie, VirgtnTaj
June St 1793* iaw6w
TO THE PUBLIC. *
AS an attachment at the tuit ©f Sam-'
uei imlay and Nathsniri Jmiay, executor®
of the testament and last will of Peter Jnilay, de
<*»afed, has i.Tued out of tfte Su rene Cou t of
Judicature of the ft ate of New -Jet fey, again/1 the.
lands of Garret Voorheis, late of the coun- y of
M ddjefex, and ilate aforefaid, returnable to the
Ill'ft' Tuesday in September, seventeen hunrred
»rd nintfty two——Notice j* hereby given to the
laid Garret Voorheii, that unless he appear and
file special bail to the said adtion, judgment
wil| b- a tnteied against him, by default, and the
lands frt itrached fold for the of such
of his creators as inali appear to be justly entitled
to any demand thereon, and stall apply for that
purpafe, according to the f(srm of khe statute in
such cafe made and provided*
By briftdrSf the Courf,
April 17. law. iy HOWELL, Clk.
To the PUSLI C.
XTO'TwITHSTANDINO all the endeavors
of the ar'ftocratic party to prevent the citi
-7"-ns of. the United Stages firm encouraging the
Waik entitled MAN U NDECEIVED, which I
proposed to pi in t by fubfexiption on the 25th Feb.
la!f, I feel myfelf happy in informing all true
Republicans, that the fame will be put without
delay as tV.c fabfeription has been
fucc?fsfu!!y filled. Sli'ch unexposed success I
ojve to the favor of several zealous friends, who
diftingo'lhrd themfelveq in the undertaking.
I think it unffecefory to make any remark* at
present r>fpe£Hhg the work, as the world will
soon be enaMrd so pronounce (ertence upon it.
I hope therefore, that tSofe whose circumftancea
are easy, who h;">ld the generous principle c»f
democracy, will fe?l lorry /or indifference
with to fubferibing, in as much as t72
work will confound toe enemies of RepuWi
canifm. 1 lhail, how v:r, refewe every reiTiark
upon the fubjcil for the Appendix tc the work*
I have the ple«fure ro ex-refa my public thanks
to thole benevolent American Printers through
! the United States, who had the kindness to insert
!my former advertisement in their newspapers,
and I requcft them to give the present a
desiring them to fend -ne of their papers, con
taining it, that I mt>y become acquainted with
my friends, and trar.ftr.it them a copy of thefaki
work as a my gratitude, V._
Those Printers only mculd take notice of th'a
requert who are true republicans, and friends to
mankind, a character acquired on4y in the
ichool of democracy.
JAMES PH. PtfGLIA,
Late fvwern interpreter of the Spanilh language,
June 12*~»793.
PRIKTED DT
CHI LD S and SWA IN E.
AT THEIk tFFICt NO. 20$, HtCK-ST«IIT,
flt'Aß FIfTH-STRBIT,
fAILA'JE L f X 2 A J