Numf.. 33 of Vol. ll.~|
To the Edi or of the National Gazette.
S 1 R,
THE peculiar situation of F.nlign
Morgan, of the tfl United States Regi
ment, having excited many enquiries, you
are requested to publish ia your paper,
without any comment thereon, the fol
lowing extract of a letter, from him, dated
at Charleston, S. C» November lit 1792.
" T AM equally fatisfied with you, my
-*■ friend, that the Prelident of the
United States has no with to alfume arbi
trary or despotic au'thortty; but as you
think with me that the Secretary at War
has done fa, by ordering me to Fort
Wafliington (900 miles) for trial, at a
time when the pretext was unfounded in
truth, and when my accuser was to re
main, and has remained ever since in
Philadelphia, or in such parts of Pennsylva
nia as his pleasure or his inclination led,
I confefs myfell" at a loss for the motives
either in point of policy, honor, or juflice.
Moreover, the evidences which I called on
the Secretary at War for, have been dis
persed over the continent, as though de
iignedly to render it impossible for ine to
derive advantage from any. Major Gai
ther, for inltance, a moll important evi
dence, is sent to command among the
Creek Indians, where his testimony is to
be buried; for by the icth article of the
appendix to the rules and articles of war,
no teftiinony of an officer in the army can
be admitted but filch as shall be delivered
in pei fin before the Court Martial:
now, my dear Sir, how can I procure such
testimony at Fort Washington, when the
Secrctarv at War has, delignedlv or tin
defignedly, scattered throughout the coiiti
nent, the officers whose evidence I cailed
upon him for lalt March or April ? And
liri one of whom ha< been at Fort Wafti
ington'fmce my being ordered there for
trial; but all have been at Philadelphia,
or near it, where I have in vain solicited
to be tried 1
Tile 16th Article of the fame appendix
ordains and directs, that no officer (hall
be detained in arrest longer than 8 cbys
without a trial, or longer than a Court
Martial can be convened: and the ill
article of the fame appendix declares, that
live commiffioiied officers lhall be fufficient
to conflitute a general court martial :
Yet I have been injuriously held in arrelt
two hundred & fifty days, * and upwards,
■when there has scarcely been a day, since
the date of my arrest, that double that
number might not have been assembled at
Philadelphia ; and frequently four time;
the number lieceffary, within a small
distance, doing little, and fonie 110 duty.
You know my friend, that I have in vain
made application to obtain a trial, even
at Pittlburgh, the head quarters of the
army, and that it has been rcfufed me.
On the 19th or 20th of September, I
found a. general Court Martial setting al
Philadelphia-; whereupon I prefentec
mvfelf immediately in person at the Wai
Office, to infill upon my trial before thai
court: but my application was rejected
YOll have seen my correspondence witi
the Secretary in co:ifeqnence. It is theft
circumstances, my friend, I call fymptovu
»f tyranny and dcjptrtifm : lor what i
tyranny or despotism but a difcretionarj
use of power, without being legally amen
able. for the just exercise of it? How
degrading will the situation of gentlemen
in the army be," it a Secretary at War,
a Commander in Chief, or a Prelident.
can at his diftvetion dispense with 01
evade the "articles of war, when inclined
to oppress an individual in it. It t.i
Secretary or Prelident, at his discretion
has a right to order me for trial from
Philadelphia (where my accuser and
evidences are, or may be ealily collected)
to Fort Wafliington, where neither my
accuser nor evidences are, lie will have ar.
equal riffht, to order my brother officer
in like situation to thelake of the woods !
Thi'my dear Sir, is not my cause alons :
It is the cause of the army and the nation,
-wiiich I am refol'ved rather to fuffer in.
than betray.
My business here was to obtain a renew
al of Major Gaither's very important
testimony ; the original whereof I lent tc
Major Butler, who tranfmittea it in lall
May or June to Mr. Brown, Editor ol
the Federal Gazette, for publication, ir
whose office it was mislaid or lofi : I wa
in expectation of overtaking major Gaithet
liere,butlie is gone on to the Creek Nation
* At the prefen't date, Febry. 20, 1793,
about one year.
By P. FRENEAU: PubliJlied Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annujn.
WE DNESE 1 A Y, February 20, 1793.
a xl therefore I mil ft w ait to hear f. tjm
hinf, go to him there, or return witlvnt
his tellimony. Thus you fee me involved
i:i expences 1 which have in a few momii
amounted, and will amount to feveial
years, pay of an Enlign !
When I firft entered on this bufiucfs
last February, my sole object was to
juflify the honor and reputation of r.iy
deceased friend General Bur ler : A4d
having done it to the latisfaction of l;h
country, and his family, I disregard the
trouble 1 have been involved in by lr
enemies. To me he was a friend, and t
his country, a faithful, ptinttual and abls
servant. ' JOHN MORGAN.'
Forth: National Gazette.
No. I.
To ALEXANDER HAMILTON, Secre
tary of the Treasury of the United
Staces.
S I R,
nOLD and unfounded allertion will
*• not pass current although it proceed
from a Secretary of the Treasury : when
:herefore, in your letter to the House of
Iteprefentatives of the 4th of this mouth,
low befoie the public, in answer to cer
tain resolutions brought forward by a
virtuous and independent member from
Virginia (Air. G les) you undertook deli
berately to declare in the face of the
world, " th t uutill those resolutions, no
11 call had been made upon you, which
■' rendered.itproper to exhibit a general
" view of the public monies and funds—
■' or to (hew the amount and fitua'ioit
" of fitch as were unapplied.' I '' —Where
then I a(k, was the conscious blush of
public integrity, which even the immaculate
mind of a Catullus might display ? Had
Mr. Jefferfon hazarded such an a'ffertlon
in the face of so many opposing aud fhili
born facts as I (hall here prel'ent to the
public, he would have been, as indeed he
ought, eonfigued to that merited infa
my and contempt, which, on another
occasion, the virtuous Catullus, without
a shadow of cause, fought to place him
under. But I forbear to recriminate ;
Catullus is fully competent to make or to
take an inference.
Attracted from all other confederations,
and svithout yielding to the force of an
inlinuation, as insulting to the legislature
of the United States as it is derogatory to
their honor, but which inevitably results
from the afTertioi) in your letter, will it
be believed by the public that during four
years of your liscal admi nitration, 110 call
hid before been made upon you, no
solitary occasion afforded, in which, if
merely emanating from a sense of clut
only, it could hive been " rend-:: a
proper to exhibit a general view o'" the
public monies and funds, or to li e.* the
amounfand situation of fm.li as were un
applied ?
I will not however, expos yam* aller
tion, only from its unguarded latitude of
cxpreCion ; want of recollection, it a
Secretary of the Treasury will stoop to
the apology, might be pleaded perhaps
against that express and poi ited demand
contained in the refolirion of the House
of Representatives of the 19th January
1-92, in which you were called upon
" to exhibit such a view of the public
finances as would enable the LegUlature
to judge whether any and what additional
supplies were requisite for the service of
the current year."—Neither fliall I now
animadvert upon the very faithful and
ascurate, flatement, which
you then exhibited, ball memg the public
revenue; to the end of the year 1792,
within a few thousand dollars—Utlio' now
when you profefs to (hew a real and not a
conjellural flatemeutof the fame revenues
to the end of the fame year, you present
to public view an excefi of income beyond
the expenditure, to the enormous amount
of 5, r 16,897 dollars—Wide difference,
indeed, for a financier; the caufe&of which
(hall be fully explained hereafter. I will
only now hint that further aflumption of
debts was then 011 the tapis.
My present purpose is, to recall your
recollecti m to what lias pafi'ed during the
present feflion, and uotwithftanding thai
treachery of memory with which you are
afflicted," to compel you, by a fair recur
rence to fhibborn fails, to acknowledge
your allertion, as above stated, to be
utterly unfounded, and to throw yourfelf,
as or. a late occasion in another place up
on tKe candour -and (orgivenefs <>( tllofe
whom so rafii an allertion was addrefied.
The fa£ts to which I {hill refer, are
prefentcd i.i the trite form of queries,
that yourfelf or your friends may the bet
ter a'iftver them.
" Did you not on the 14th day of No
vember lift, report to Congress an_efti
inate of 1,500,000 dollars and upwards as
necelfary for the current service of the
year 1793 ?"
" Did you not, in that report, state to
Gongrefs the ways and means for railing
that money, and by way of explanation
refer them to a comparative flatement of
revenue to the end of the year 1793,
marked D, without bringing into the
\ ie\v of the Legillature any part of the
s ery large luni of 2.504,76; dollars, which
j you had. at that time, a£hl-illy drawn
! over from Europe out of the monies arif-
I ing from foreign loans, and of which
! monies two funis to wit, 605,883 dollars,
lii cents, iocafh, and ;Ke filni of 611,593
ioM-irs for proceeds of bills (which yon
lince acknowledge, began to be received
iii October last) were then deposited in
the ba.ik.?"
•' Did you not. under the fame circum
stances, report to Congress 011 the 30th of
November lalt, a p'an for the redemption
of the public it bi, propoling therein a fyf
ftein of loans predicated 011 the idea of fur
ther immediate and permanent taxes,
without bringing into view of the legisla
ture one Ihilli;;;; of the money ariiing from
'•jreign loans ?
" Did not Congress, at their present fef
[ion, direst you to report the ways and
meaiii to re-imburfe of two millions
of dollars obtained by the President of the
bank of the United States on account of
the public's fubfeription of lhares in the
bank ?"
'• Did you not on the 30th of November
tad, report your opinion to Congress " that
power be given by law to borrow the said
two millions of dollars"—without inforin
iijg the 111 that there was then in bank up
wards of 1,300,000 dollars of the monies
ariiing from foreigu loans, at the disposal
of government
" Were, or were not, any of the fore
going occalions to be regarded as so many
calls upon you, or as affording one oppor
tunity, " which rendered it proper to ex
hibit ageneral view of the public monies
aucf fundi—or to (hew the amount and
situation <>f such as were unapplied ?"
But I turn, with disgust, from a view of
the subject so insultingly derogatory to
common sense. Let the convictions of your
c.vn mind supply the answers.
One thing is manifeft, that at the dates
of all the preceding circuin(lances, it might
01 be expedient to bring into the view of
thelegifl I'ture the situation of the 2,304,769
dollars drawn over from Europe: until
the 3d of January last, you refilled the in
fluence of any preceding calls, which under
the .strong circamftances I have stated,
ought to have produced a voluntary disclo
sure oi'it; and then only, in obedience to
apofitiv; and Jpecinl call for that purpose,
reported a flatement of the foreign loans
the 1110 ft ambiguous and evasive, that ever
disgraced the ability and talents of a man,
ambitious of the character of a faithful fi
nancier. When called upon, too,for further
explanations, in consequence of the reso
lutions moved by Mr. Giles, your letter of
the 4th instant is produced in r.nfwer,
teeming with all the peevilh petulance of
in angry man, and containing little eva
fioiis of the inform tion asked for, by tic
mean? indicative of that anxious desire to
meet the fubjeft With decision and explicit
ftefs, so emphatically declared in the be
ginning of the letter. Quixote like, to raise
a windmill that you may attack and de
stroy it, is very amusing. To account for
unaccounted millions, when not asked to
do it, thro' the means of that wizzard's
wand, CONJECTURAL STATEMENTS, is
one thing: But to account for unaccounted
millions, when required so to do, and that
too, thro' the means of plain, simple direct,
and real statements, is quite another thing.
In doing the firft, you are prompt and
dexterous beyond measure. In doing the
last, firangsly dilatory, ignorant, andun
fkilful. Whence this extreme disparity of
talents.as applicable to the one or the other
cafe ?—Can it be poflible. that the plea now
so industriously circulated by your friends,
of incapacity to slate Jatisfatiorily public
accounts, is well founded ? Or is there 110
man allbciated with you in the department
of which you are the head, competent to
the talk? Strange situation, truly, in which
to place the United States. Pofiefied of a
,financier, with the mofl fertile imagination
[Total No. 137.]
and {kill in all that relates to systems of per
manent and irredeemable debt, permanent
taxes, permanent loans, the distribution,
expenditure, and applicability of public
monies, who for four years past has pos
sessed unlimited confidence and- exercised
unlimited controul over 14 millions of dol
lars of the public money, and who, whe;*
called upo.i to render a fair and true ac
count for about two millions of that mo
ney, mull submit to the mortifying infinti
ations, propagated by his friends, of uttir
incapacity so to do !
Mvfterious as this appearance is, perhaps
the following brief review of fails, pre
sented from your own letters, (latements,
and explanations, may furnilh the folutiou
of it.
You began to draw bills on account of
the 2,304,769 dollars of foreign loan- :
brnught into the United States 011 the 15th
of December, 1 790, and continued drawing
until the 28th of Decern. 1 792, two months
after the prcfent session of Congress com
menced. You employed, as you fay, tlie
refpeflive banks to be the agents in thefales
of those bills. The bills were drawn by
the treasurer of the United States, in fa
vour of the respective calhiers of the banks,
at what fight is r.ct mentioned, and in sumS
of florin; of, from ioo.oco and less, to one
million and more. The bills so drawn,
were again reduced into smaller bills, by
the banks that disposed of them, for the
convenience of purchasers, and fold at dif
ferent rates of exchange & different terms
of credit. But the precise nature and ef
fect of this twofold operation you have not
thought fit to explain. Whether the re
fpeftive banks obtained an immediate or
eventual credit, and when, with the com
mifiioners in Holland ? Whether the re
fpe&ive banks became debtors to die public
from the time of such credit in Holland,
or merely from the refpeftive dates, when
the proceeds of the (ales made by them,
came into bank? or from what other date,
they became so debtor, does not appear.
Who drew the bills disposed of by the
banks j when the bills drawn in favour of
the banks were paid in Holland—and when
the bills.draivU by the banks,were paid for
here, are also not exhibited. Whether the
banks whom you represent merely as the
agents of the public jn the sale of the bills,
derived any and what advantage or emolu
ment from the manner of negotiating them,
is a circumstance which they and you arc
equally bound fairly and explicitly to state,
not by vague allertion, but by a full, pre
cise, and circumllantial detail ol all the
particulars ofthis very curious and, to the
public, deeply intrrefting business.
It is not my present purpose to pursue
you thro'' all those wanderings of tlie ima
gination, to which the public are led, by the
further defence or apology contained in
your letter of the 13th of this month. Ch.t
of this apology, two questions arife,equally
awefnl and important for you toanl'wer.— '
FirJ?, Whether you had, or ever possessed,
any fufneient authority to divert two mil
lions of public money from its express ap
propriation by law, and hold it, or any part
ofit,(as you express it )applicah!elo another
purpofe?—and, Secondly, Whether ) .hi
can now account for the w hole of this mo
ney, not only by (hewing where it actual.v
is, but also, the reasons whyabout i,300.cc0
dollars part thereof, has never yet been
paid inro the treasury, but has been ke. t
in a state of abeyance between you r.r d
the banks for periods of from three
to twelve months, or upwards ?
—On both these questions« further a 1:i
----madverlions will be offered in my next
letter. It may not be impertinent, how -
ever, here to remark, that no arrogant
affmnption of importance can avail you
in the further progress of this enquiry,
and therefore that all those reprefentat ions
of a supposed discretion as financier of tie
United States—of the propriety and re
certify of your having ;:t all times'half a
million of the public money at comma;:-.:,
of those great and comprehensive views
of policy, by which in an efficient ftip
port of public credit you hove maintained
the existence of the Constitution, pro
tected us again!! Indian wars,siid guarded
us from all other dangers, foreign and do
mestic, mult be disregarded & laidalide "s
thefrivolous weakneliesof a vain man, v. ho
in themiftaken idea of his own confequen. ■
fancies himfelf the great pivot upon whirli
the whole machine of government tin :: ,
throwing out of view, as comparatively
little and infignificant, the Preiident,
Legislature, and the Constitution itfelf.
—" Regard thyfelf as thou art, arid t'.ou•wilt be reppeHedaccordinglyi- the lelTon
of wii'd 0111 applicable to j public servant
called to answer btiore the tribunal of the
people. Frank and candid acknowledge
ment, humble deportment, and refpectfu
submission to the public opinion, will bell
accord with yourprefeutfituatiou. F.quai
]y unavailing will it be, thro' yonrlelf ant
friends, to play off the little arts of delay,
or to impede the progrefsof fair &full en
quiry be-ore the Home of Representatives.
That hotife is known to be pretty nearl)
equally divided as to the general policy c>l
your (ileal arrangements,but in the prefeni
enquiry, in which the bank of the Unitcc
States is so materially involved, relative a
the negociation of the foreign loans, (houlcl
a small majority of that hotife, including
the BANK DIRECTORS, be disposed tc
Jlur ov:r the proceeding, and Itiflc enqui
ry, the public at large, before whom you
also ttand, will never acquiejce in the de
ciliou, and the total loss of all future pub
lic confidence Willi follow : for be allured.
Sir, that when Catui.£us invited aflem
liled America, to look thro' the window;
of his breast, and judge of the purity of hi;
political motives, he did not invite in vain,
i'reely will those motives be Jooked at,&
thepropriery of conduit they have induced,
tjs freely examined & difenffed—Sufficient
indeed, if they can bear him through i:i
all the circumitances of the impending en
quiry.
Feb. 18. DECIUS.
For the National Gazette.
Number 11.
THE Public discern the difaffe£Hcn of
the Secretary of the Treasury to the
constitution of the United States, through
the medium of that train of circumflantial
evidence adduced in my last. And yet
the proofs are not exhaulted.
Reader, keep in mind the following po
rtion. A national government was de
signed by the conititntion, which in its ad
niiniftration should consult the will) and
the good of the people.
An adminiftratiou, literally copied from
the monarchical system of Britain, inay
produce a revolution as complete, as it it
had been effeaed by force. If the form
of monarchy was exalted among 11s, a na
tive love of liberty would rally all around
the {tandard of oppolition, except the mi
nions of the idol; 'tis through thouglit
lefl'nefs therefore, and not through pulil
lanimity that wc submit to the fubflauce.
Influence upon the actsofthe legislature,
united with the direction of public money,
concentred in one person, conftitute3 the
e(fence of monarchy. The name ot the
monarch is unimportant. Whether he is
called emperor, king, pope, or secretary
of the treasury, it amounts to the fame
thing. „ ,
Two results flow from filch an union.
The laws, are the laws of this individual,
not of the legislature; they only regilter
his a£ls, and the misapplication of public
money will escape with impunity, if the
checks are the creatures of his admini
ftratiou. „ , . ,
In the letter of the Secretary of the
Treasury, the following article is to be
found.
" Gash in the bank of
the United States, and the
offices of discount and Dolls. Cts,
depofrt, of New-York and j> 605,883 8
Baltimore, not yet pafed to
the account of the Treasury,
pcrjlatement A. B. J
Up' J.i reading this article, the following
interrogatories naturally occur :
How could this enormout. turn of publu
money find its way into the bank, withoul
palling through the several offices of check:
Is the boalt, " That the excellent orga
nization of the treasury department, inhi
bits every mifapplicalion of public money,'
-well founded ? ... , . ,
In what manner has the public derived a
benefit from depositing this money in the
bank ? ,
And may not the public money have been
facrificed to private interelt orpolitical de
l £ This money is a part of 2,304,769 dol
lars 13 cents, borrowed in Holland, and
brought into this country by bills of ex
change, drawn in December 1790, and the
two following years. The Secretary in
his report of January 3d 1 793, slates, thai
017316 dollars, 90 cents, have been, or
are to be applied to the relief of St. Do
mingo and to the payment of foreign offi
cers No part of this sum is pretended to
have been paid previous to February, 1792,
-lltho' nearly a moiety of the bills had been
drawn long before. And it is probable
that about the sum of 473.053 dollars 7
cents, part thereof, is yet unpaid. Howe
ver deduct the whole sum iromthemo
nev'drawn, and there remains 1,387,452
dollars 23 cents. Of this the Secretary
states 605,883 dollars, cents, as being in
the bank, and 636,976 dollars, 73 cents as
due for bills- With regard to this balance,
amounting to 166,976 dollars, 13 cents, it
is hypothecated to the bans of North A
mcrica, as a pledge upon the credit of
which to borrow a fmallerfum.
' This statement isextrafted from there
t'.irfcs, in the mode mo ft favorable for the
officer. It demonltrably proves that
605,885do.'iars, Scents, have been out of
public life from the moment ihev were
drawn, to this day—1,567,673 florins,
which nearly amounts to the sum, were
drawn between December 1790 and May
1 -91, if.cliilive. Indeed, the oills for the
greater part were dated in December 1790,
-uiH in January following.
The public have loit the interest upon
the 605,883 dollars, 8 cents for near two
years. For if the bills in some cases carri
ed an interest for a (hort space, and two
years in others have not elapsed (luce the
aioney was received, yet the loss of inter
est on the monies unpaid to St. Domingo
uid the foreign officers, and on the sum of
166,976 dollars, 13 cents, will be an equi
valent to balance those conliderations.
But the questions are not forgotten.—
They are answered thus
This money was placed in the bank by
he unchecked agency of the Secretary oi
:he Treasury.
The organization of the department is
neffectual, or the Secretary has broken the
avr.
The public have derived no benefit fron
his money
It was under the exclusive secret con
:roul and direction of the Secretary, to be
ifed as his interest or policy should die
ate.
For the public it could not have been li
ed, either in anticipations or otherwise
jecaufe it could not pass out, unless it hat
>revioufly passed into the treasury, and ir
his cafe the check offices would have ex
hibited such use.
It is necelfary, before we proceed, tc
mderltand something of the nature oi
hose powers really poffelled by the Secre
ary of the Treasury. He is regardec
>oth by the constitution and the laws as :
langerous officer; and to prevent hin
rom a [fuming functions both legiflativt
uul executive, by a pecuniary power, wif
iom, with particular allidufty, imposes up
in him certain prohibitory injunctions.
The constitution enjoins a periodical ex
libition of public funds, by which it is pre
umed,accounts,fuch as can be understood
liade up of items and figures are meant ;
ind hot volumes of metaphysical reafon
ngs.
The laws, clearly as to taxes, inhibitint
lim from its custody, have provided a trea
urer to receive the money, and several of
ices of check, through which all account
null pass.
As to loans, the President is the chect
>rovided by law. The enormous sum o:
4,000,000 of dollars, may by law be bor
owed and applied, but not by the Secre
ary. It is no censure upon others to ob
erve, that the Prelident was perhaps th(
>nly individual, in whose hands the legif
ature could, with indubitable propriety
lave depolited a trust so important.—Maj
t not be demanded.
Whether the President fan£tified the bor
owing and drawing money hither frorr
Holland, from December 1790 to the pre
"ent year ?
Whether he fanftified the keeping ft
rreat a sum of public money out of publi<
iriew ?
And whether he fanctified the keeping
Congress itfelf in the dark upon the l'ub
ieft, for several felfions ?
These questions may be boldly anfweret
in the negative. The President's nice ho
nor would never fuft'er him to sap a demo
cratical government, which he has engager
to support, by countenancing dark monar
chical manoeuvrings of public money. Ani:
liisintegrity is above commendation.
Several fedions of Congress have elajffec
luce the bill-drawing bnlinefs was adopt
ed, and yet the secret was preserved will
unexampled fidelity, by the Secretary, the
Treasurer, and the Bank-Dire£tors, fell
for, as it whs, by at least two resolutions.
But this is denied : " 'till the last refoln
tions" [fays the Secretary] *' no call ha:
3een made, which rendered it proper tr
exhibit a general view of the public mo
lies and funds, Or to shew the amount anii
ituation of such as were unapplied."
On the 30th of December 1791, the
House of Repr,efentatives resolved, that
t fliall be the duty of the Secretary of the
Treasury, to lay before the House of Re
jrefentatives on the 4th Monday of Ofto
jer in each year, an accurate flate
nent and account of the receipti and. ex
penditures of K\A.public monies,isc.
And on the 19th of January 1792, the
"aine house ordered, " that the Secretary
:>f the Treasury be directed to lay before
:he house, such information with respect to
'he finances of the United States as wille«-
able the legijlature to judge -whether any
additional revenue will be necejfafy, in
:onfequence of the proposed increase of the
military eftablilhment."
Pause here for a moment, and scan the
veracity of the aifertion. The firft resolu
tion calls for " the receipts and expendi
tures of all public monies."''' Was it not
then " proper to exhibit a general view oj
all the public monies and funds ?"—No, fays
the Secretary—Were these monies,it is ask
ed, public or private ? If the former, they
fall within the very letter of the resolution.
The second resolution demands " Such
information with refpeit to the finances of
the United States, as will enable the lea, ill a
ture to judge, whether any additional re
venue'will be necciiary, &c."
The finances of the United. States, are
comprelfcnfive expreifions, but, fays the
Secretary* no propriety could even from
this order be inferred, why he Ihould
"/hew the amount and fltualion of such
public monies and funds as were unap
plied."
Now considering that Congrefswere re
solving in the dark,as having no knowledge
of this bill-draining bufinejs, if they die
not hit the nail on 'the very head, the Se
cretary's ingenuity might have helped then
to tljeir o'ojeft on the score of the true fpi
iit and intention of the order. If they had
luckily Humbled on unapplied funds, tc
me it would seem, that they would have
found the very thing they were looking
for.
Whenever power is given to him, the Se
cretary is not deficient in the talent of ex
panding the sense, and giving a scope to thi
intention; and if accounts of public fund
a;-e demanded, he is equally clever at whit
tling down the sense to the letter, and tha
he even sometimes obliterates.
Does this mode of administration consul
the will, or the good of the people ?—an<
if not, has not the Secretary fruftrated th(
design of the constitution, in the eftabiilh
ment of a general government ?
If toconceal from the people, and theii
representatives, The nature and extent o]
public resources—to incur a loss of inter
est, upon an enormous sum of public mo
ney by a non-user or a mis-lifer—to evade
official checks eftablilhed by law and the
:onftitution, —and to retain an uncontroll
ed power over immense funis of money,
which are, to fay the lealt, operating ali
,!>« time for the emolument of paper
men and paper institutions.—is theft
:hings produce pleasure or good to the
ieopie, then the Secretary is guided by the
Constitution in his administration ; but ii
"rom these facts, opposite conclulions mill)
: ollow, then it is evidently proved, that he
•egards the conflitution with the molt in
veterate difaftection.
FRANKLIN.
Philad. Feb. 19.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Monday, Feb. it.
"The bill for relieving Simeon Thayet
,vas read a third time and palled—two pe
itions from French inhabitants in tiie ter
itory N. W. of the Ohio were read and
eferred to the committee on the petiti
ons of the Gallipolis settlers—a reprefen
ation was read from the Poll Master Ge
leral of the United States, stating incon
/eniencies in transmitting the Mail thro
New-Jersey, from a state law fubjefting
tage-coaches to a tax —referred to a com
nittee on the Poft-office law—the Speak
er signed 2 bills, one for licensing veflels,
:he other for coilipenfating the President
md Vice-Prelident of the United States—
\ meflage from the Senate that they have
3affeel the bill for compensating the Pre
sident and Vice-Prelident—a debate took
ilace on reading the report of the Secre
:ary of the Treasury, containing.a plat
Cor the reduction of the public debt—The
:ommittee rose without deciding.
Tuesday, Feb. 12.
Several petitions were read and refer
red —a meiiage was received from the Se
nate, notifying their agreement to the re
port of the joint committee, refpccting the
mode of counting and sorting the vote;
for President and Vice-Prelident—The
House then went into committee of the
whole on the Secretary of the Treafury'. l
i!an for reducing the public debt—The
.onimittee rose withoutdeciding.
Wednesday, Feb. i».
Elijah Boftwick's petition was read the
:hiril time and paffeel.
Mr. SumpSer called the attention of the
House to an ast palled the last feflion, pro
viding for the settlement of claims noi
barred by the limitation heretofore etlab
lifhed : recurring to particular sections ol
that ast, he shewed that the proviiions
therein contained fubjeft the claimants to
so much expence and delay in getting their
claims adjusted and fettled as amounts to
precluding them from obtaining that jus
tice the ast appears to be designed to af
ford. Mr. Stimpter conclueled hi) re
marks by moving that a committee be ap
pointed to bring in >a bill for repealing the
fei'ond feftio* of that act, and to provide
adequate regulations in the cafe—laid on
the table.
The bill for refunding Jacob Bell cer
tain duties on pickled fifh was taken up
in committee of the whole. Being repor
ted without amendment it was ordered to
be engrossed for a thirel reading.
A message from the President that he
had signed an ait relative to claims.agamft
the United States, not barred by any ast of
limitation — a meflage was received from
the Senate, thai they concur in the bill for
repealing part of a resolution of the late
Congress refpefting the inhabitants of Poll
St. Vincennes.
A flatement was read of the votes for
President and Vice President, as foil w :
George Walhington 132, John Adams 77,
Geo. Clinton 50, Thomas Jeiferfon 4,
Aaron Burr 1. —Other matters, of a confi
dential nature, being communicated, the
galleries were cleared.
Thursday, Feb. 14.
Mr. Wadfivorth's report on the petiti
ons of the French inhabitants of Gallipolis,
was read and laid on the table—several
other petitions of a private nature were
read and referred—Some confidential com
munications being then announced, the
galleries were (hut—A meflage was receiv
ed from the Senate, informing that the
President had approved and ligned the
" ast refpetting fugitives from justice, and
abfeondingfervants"—alfo, a bill from the
Senate, for concurrence, for providing
more effectually rot the collection of du
ties on merchandize, &c. imported into
the United States, and on the tonnage of
yeflele.
Friday, Feb. r 5.
A supplementary bill to the Collection
Law, received from the Senate, was twice
ead, and referred to a feleft committee—
he bill for refunding to Jacob Bell cer
:ain duties 011 pickled fifh, was read the
hird time and pafi'ed—a bill for placing
)n the pension lift O.ich militia officers and
oldiers as fiiall be disabled in the public
ervice, was read twice, and referred to
1 committee of the whole house—a re
jort was read on the petition of the prin
ers and booksellers for taking off the du
y on imported printing paper—-The re
tort is against repealing the duty, but ill
avour of taking off all duties 011 import
ed rags—referred to a feleft committee—•
1 motion was laid on the table by Mr.
3oodhue for extending the term for re
viving fubferiptions to the loan of the
JnitedStates tothe day of A re
>ort was read and laid on the table, from
lie Secretary of War, favourable to the
petitions of I. Hafkell and A. Watson—
The reading of communications from
:he Sacretary of the Treasury was then
aken up; and being finifhed/a motion was
made th3t these coinmnnications should be
■eferred to a feleft committee, with in
trusion to report on such parts as may
>e proper to be publiihed—another moti
on was made, that those flionld be printed
without any such reference as are not
?xpref>ly communicated r.s confidential.
Some debate taking place on this motion,
the galleries were cleared—the house be
ag again opened, a rneffage was received
from the Senate that they have passed the
•ill for promoting the progress of ufeful
irts, with amendments—alio, the bill for
:he relief of H. E. Lutterloh, which they
luive resolved, do pass—The amendments
from the Senate tothe ast of establishing
iudicial courts, &c. were referred to a
committee of the whole on next Monday;
Mr. Giles, of the committee appointed to
enquire into the canfesof the failure of
Gen. St. Clair's expedition, brought in a
report supplementary to that made at the
laftfeffion—read, and 100 copies order
ed to be printed : the consideration of
which was pollponedto next Wednesday ;
the committee of reference for consider
ing certain communications from the Se
cretary of theTreafury, relative to public
iccuunts, reported a llatement, as, in their
ipinion, proper for publication—agreed
:;> by the Houfe —the amendments of the
Senate to the bill for promoting the pro
gress of the ufeful arts, were also agreed
:o—a motion was laid on the table, for
:!ie appointment of a committee to bring
11 a bill for fixing the time of the nextan
lual meeting of Congress.
Mr. Giles laid a motion 011 the table to
:he following effect—Th.it the commif
ioners for purchasing the public debt be
lirefted to lay before this House a ftate
n?nt of their proceedings from th®- com
mencement of that inf'titiion to the pre
enttime.—fpecifying the sums carried to
:l:e credit of that account, and the four
:es from whence they hive Been drawn—
ind the amount of monies now on hand
-pplicable to the purthafe of the public
debt.
Saturday, Feb.
After the reading a petition from Oliver
Bowen, praying iVttlement of accounts for
ervices rendered, the house proceeded (iiiv.
committee of the whole) to consider the
1 >il 1 for regulating fees in the treasury de
partment for the transfer of public fecuri
lies—Afterfome time the bill was report
ed with one aroerdnjer.t, which was read
and' laid over for consideration—Mr.
N'adTon, from the committee on the di
.l ribution of the papers received from the
Secretary of the Treasury, made a report
of mere papers in those parcels which
might be puJjiiflied, without inconveni
ence—laid on the table—a report was also
made from the committee on thepoft olfics
Uw—not read, but 1 jiU on Uie table.PHILADELPHIA.
February 20.
Extract of a letter from a refpe&able cha
racter in Virginia
" I am pleased to hear a ftrift scrutiny
will be made into the use and expenditure
of the public money. The fvftem of fi
nance that has been (I cannot but think,
unfortunately c or the republican interest
and general wtifare) adopted in the com
mencement of the present government, is
so involved, and pursued with such refine
ment, and, apparently, contrived intrica
cy, as to conceal its movements and objeth
from common observation, and to be un
derstood only by those who make it their
particular bulir.efs to investigate such sub
jects. Plans of finance, dark and my lie
rious, fiiould not be adopted, for this plair
and good reason, that the people have a
right, and ought to fee and know, how
their money is expended—this they cannot
do but by their representatives, and as it i 1
their duty to fully understand and as full)
invefligate the management of the money,
one would think, unless actuated by (imilai
motives, they would always prefer ;
Ample plan, to that which is complicated
less likely to be disordered, and wliei
more easily remedied. The
making free with appropriations is not onlj
a breach of law but a dangerous practice
as it respects the public faith, and canno
bejuftified but irom absolute necefiity, oi
palliated but by the express sanction of th<
executive, the proper judge of the indif
penfible jieceffity. The officer, in fuel
cefe,has 110 right to ast from himfelf. Tilt
reason for using the Dutch loan withoul
the concurrence of the commissioners ne
ceflarily sccalions ftifpicion of itr, propel
application. The eltablilhing the bank
without excluding from a feat in the legif
lature the proprietors of the flock, ha:
sown the feed of corruption, as, betweer
the financier and the dire&ors, the game
may be played to the great emolument oi
the proprietorsandthe undermining of the
independence of the legislature. The pro
fits of the bank, it is said, amounted the lafl
year to 16 per cent: this has doubled the
gain of the firft calculation, and must. I
suppose, be owing to the extent of its dis
counts, and may, it is to be presumed, be
carried much higher in time, so long a;
loans in Europe exist, and the revenues ol
the country are subservient to its gainful
purposes,"
On Wednesday last, both houses of Con
gress met in Convention, in the fenate
chamber, when the certificates, from the
executives of the several states, were read
containing lifts of the Electors' votes foi
President and Vice-President—The aggre
gate of the votes for George Washington.
•was 132 as Prelident of the United States—
77 for John Adams as Vice-President— 5c
for George Clinton, ditto— 4 for T. Jeffer
fon—and r for Aaron Burr—George Walh
ington was then declared President of the
United Stites, by a unanimous vote, for 1
years from - the 4th of March 1793; ant
John Adams, Vice-President for the fame
period, by a majority of votes.
Many perfon.s (fays a correspondent
feern greatly alarmed at the probable dif
trefled (ituatioti of the king of France anc
family, Ihould they be discharged by the
National Convention, and turned outintc
the world to Ihift for themselves. In al
probability the nation would not be unge
nerous in maktngfome provilion for the re
lies of royalty., and Ihould they not, ai
af'ylum will d<>ubtlefs be open for them ii
the Austrian o:r some other court. Shoule
all this l'ail, however, it is generally knowi
that Louis the 16th is one of the best lock
smiths in Fran ice, and in his happier days
this was his f.i vorite employment at leifuri
hours. As ti > the duke d'Artois, let wha
will happen, he can be at no great loss for ;
subsistence. ,'(t is an undoubted fa£t tha
he makes the best parrot cages of any niai
in Europe.
Letters fr> om England mention, tha
" after Mr. I rfltine had finilhed his speech
in the co-urta t Guildhall, in defence of Mr
Paine and his Rights of Man, the citizen
of London v . ould not fuffer him to bt
drawn home by horses, but unharnelTin;
them, assumes d the business of drawing hin
themselves. Upwards of ten thousand ci
tizens followe'd in the train."
The am'bal] ador of France at Naples ha:
r ceived orders from the Neapolitan court
t "etire fron 1 that capital.
A very nun '.erous meeting of inhabitant:
\ is held aboi it the roth of December lad
u at Birminghai m, in England, upon their
present governmental affairs. Toward:
the conclnfioi los the meeting an Ass wa
cireffed up in royal robes, and received nu
merous fpecic nens of that ba/e and degra
(ting homage which men in all past age:
li3ve been wc rnt to pay to the (frequentlj
asinine) rega 1 characters of their own spe
cies—in the evening, it was resolved una
-11 i mou fly by 1 he people, "that they woulc
he no longer governed by an a/s" —anc
immediately, beheaded him. (Querc) Whe
ther it would,-. not have been better to let hin,
run ?
A private letter fro-m Havre mentions,
" th it the greater part of tiie treasures oi
the huly chel't at Loretto have been remo
ved into a, 1 interior part of the country,
for fear of the enterprizing spirit of the
french adventurers, who are no doubt
jtanchng ready to pylfefs themselves of an
immensity of riches, which facerdotai im
posture and deception fiftve been heaping
up in that celebrated spot, for many ages
part. Altho' the holy-house was brought
in former ages from Bethlehem to Loret
to on angels' (houlders (according to a
good old ftorv) the priests do not seem to
make much reliance upon a iimilar mira
culous event to get it removed farther, in
cafe of an appearance of French inva
lion."
On the late trial of Mr. Paine, for libel
lous and treasonable writings (as the)
were termed by the court pasty) Mr. Er-
Ikine stood forth his advocate, in an admi
rable speech of three hours and twenty mi
nutes long: but all did not prevent the
verdict. Guilty, from the jury. Mr. Er
(kine, tho' on the popular fide of the quef
tion,feemed fenfibleof the dangerous caufc
'ie advocated, in refpe£t to the court, anc
quoted, as applicable to his then lituation,
:he cafe of the poor man in one of Lucian';
dialogues, who was arguing a point wit!
Jupiter, and was plainly getting the bettei
>fhis godlhip, till Jupiter {hewed him hi:
hunderbult, when the opponent ownec
limfelf vanquilhed by the JtrongeJi of al
lrguments, superior force. Mr. Erflani
r eems, also, to have been in a situation ;
;ood deal resembling the devil's advocate
it Rome, who when a dead faint is to b(
;anonized, always pleads before the Popt
md his cardinals in behalf of the devil, a
;ainft the canonisation. While speaking
ie is with much impatience attended t<
iy the conclave, but the advocate and hi
Jient are always sure to come offlofers.
On the 27th inft. a meeting is to be helc
n Burlington, N. J. by a number of bene
■ olent citizens of that state, for the pur
iofe of meliorating the present condition o:
:he blacks, and effecting the final abolitioi
jfflaverv in New-Jersey. The emanci
nation of the mulattoes is aifo included, a:
me of the objects of this benevolent affbei
ition.
On Friday last, in the house of reprefen
atives of Pennsylvania, the resolution foi
•ftablifiiing a new bank was carried ir
:ommittee of the whole—yeas 43 —nay:
!t.
Amineof wealth isaccumulatingfibmyeai
oyear on the coasts of the middle states.
if which few people have at present an)
dea. According to information from per
oils of veracity employed in the coasting
racle. the whole coast of New-Jersey a
)onnds w\th excellent cod-fi(h. equal tc
iny caught on the banks of Newfoundland
bringing Sandy-Hook light-house to beat
ibont weft, and having 25 fathoms of wa
:er, or thereabouts, they may be caught, ir
he proper fealon, nearly in the fame plen
y as on the grand bank.
A curious memoir was read before the
French academy of sciences on the 13th o1
November last, relative to the northwefl
railage, or the ftreight that is supposed tc
'ommunicate between the Atlantic anc
Pacific oceans through the northern part:
if North-America. The journal of a voy ■
lge made thro'this ftreight in 1598, wa:
-ead at their meeting. The navigator en
.erecl Davis's (freights in Int. 66. N. long.
Si. W. and after fleering different cour
es, at length stood to the S. W. to lat. 6c
ind long. 125 weft, where he found £
freight which separates Alia from Ameri
:a, and through which h/? entered the greal
"outhern ocean. It were to be wished thi:
important discovery could be verified
which has been overlooked for two centu
ries, and baffled all attempts for a limilai
purpose, on these inhospitable coasts.
A conference was held about two month:
since at St. Mary's river, in Georgia, b)
the agent of the United States with a con
siderable number of representatives of the
Creek Indians—at this conference, it wa:
agreed, among other matters, that all U
nitecl States prisoners, with the Creeks,
(liould be immediately delivered Up to the
agent—the Indians to steal no more hor
ses, or other property, from the frontiers—
and to join no other Indian nation, at war
with the United States. There is, from
the accounts last received from Georgia, a
profpecf of a peace, foinewhat permanent,
with the Creeks.
A male panther was lately killed in New
Hampshire, of a size uncommon for that
animal. The tail (fay our accounts) was
two feet and a half long ; and from the
iiofe to the end of the tail, nearly eight
feet.
A new group of islands has been disco
vered in the south seas, by Caps. Ingra
iiam, in the brig Hope in her palfage from
Boston to the north weft co;:ft of Ameri
ca. The principal of these islands lies in
latitude (south; 8 degrees 52 minutes —
longitude weft from London 140 deg. 19
inin. the reft being in the fame neighbour
hood. Capt. Ingraham took pofleflion of
them for the United Statesof America.
It was was fiid infome of the London
papers, about the end ofNovember, that
Thomas Paine had arrived in England to
stand his trial for a libel : but this was
Toon found to be untrue, and that he,in a
letter to the attorney general among othei
things fays, " that while twelve Englilh
raen are fitting injudghient upon the opi
nions he has publiiUed on the art of go
vernment, he will be employed, as the re
presentative of' 24 millions of Frenchmen
to carry those opinions into execution."
Bowles, the Cherokee Indian Chief
who had been confined in the common jai
of Cadia for nearly fix months, and hac
been sentenced to death for the depreda
tions committed by him on Spanith proper
ty in Florida, is at length liberated, it i
supposed, on the interceHion of the Britill
minister.
Extract of a letter from Brunfwick
New-Jersey, dated February 4 1792.
"J have the pleafiire of informing th<
readers of newspaper intelligence thai
Saturday last, I had an opportunity o:
viewing the different preparations toward:
eltablilhing the cotton manufactory ai
Paterfon, under the direction of Mr
Pearce ; which surpassed my utmost ex
pectation, to fee the business in such per
fection and forwardnefs, conlidering th(
Ihortnefs of time since the undertakin;
commenced. They are now carrying or
the carding, fpiniiing.and weaving of cot
ton goods viz. callicoes, jeans, dimitie:
and mullinets. Tlie good* seem to be o;
a moll excellent quality, and I doubt 1101
but in a ftiort period, they will lie able ti
vie in point of quality, with any import
ed. If the present manufactory succeeds
it mtld soon be of great utility, to this
country at large."
'—* —
"I have viewed with pleasure (fays :
correspondent) the rapidity with whicl
republican principles are difleminated :
and am one of those who mo ft hearlily wifi
to lee every vt-flige of royalty and rega
pomp, forever discarded from our repub
lic ; holding these principles, I cannot helj
viewing with a jealous eye, the gaiuh
trappings of our very worthy judges of the
upreme court of the United States.
Plainnefj and simplicity are fundamenta
irinciples of a republican government, am
ive are all aware of the prevalency of ex
imples ; when 1 fee, therefore, our chie
Tiagiftrates upholding the relicks of aris
tocracy, I reailv am surprized, and not ;
ittle fearful of the consequences ; peoph
eem to be pretty generally agreed, witl
-egard to the evil tendency of beftowins
titles. And to me it appears as great ai
mpropriety, and will eventually have tht
ame effeCt, to retain the idle pomp of of
ice, as the ridiculous epithets annexec
thereto."
ExtraCt of a letter dated Cape Francois
23d Jan. 1793, received yesterday by;
merchant ef this city, (by a veflel arri
red at Norfolk, Virginia.)
" Since the 14th of this instant we havi
in array of about 3000 men, partly com
lofed of the troops of the line and of oui
jwn citizens. They have already take!
ill the principal forts, encampments am
-edoubts of our revolted negroes ; thofi
latter had erected a veryftrong post withit
two leagues of this town, fortified with al
the art and strength which could be pofli
bly imagined ; however, they could no
Hand the impetuolity of our brave soldier
,n storming their fort; 20 pieces of can
ion of every lize and bore have been ta
ken ; a number of the negroes havi
oeen killed; the remainder are scattered
jut our men are in pursuit of them, aiu
will not give up the chafe fintil they are al
killed or taken. Every day numbers o;
them fiirrcnder themfelvcs and beg to re
turn to their duty ; we expeCt that this ex
traordinary coined will soon be over, anc
that tranquility,good order, and fafety wil
be reltored again upon a lading basis.
Our public and national securities art
riling now, probably on account of the joy
ful news that we have lately received Iron
France; and there is 110 doubt that tht
price of the American produce wiil be
ihortly very favourable here."
Not to have power, is all the art I kneu
"To make men harmless, and to kee}
them Jo."
" The contention, and the plots form
ed by the aristocrats, have bred all the
mifchiefs and miseries which the world has
of late witnelled in France. The Frencl
commoners, in one word, all the oppreffec
Frenchmen, were crying for liberty anc
equality ; and had their just demand;
been granted, all dispute was at an end ; all
ibufes would have been gently suppressed.
every thing would have been put right
igain ; the reign of the law once taking
place, every one could have recovered his
own ; kept his own : and nothing but hi;
own. But unfortunately, the human spe
cies ha 6 too much affinity with the brutes.
There are also amongst them wolves and
tygers ; eagles and hawks, living always
at the expence of the weak ; happy by the
misfortunes of others, and inspiring a ge
neral dread to the multitude, either
their frightful how lings, their menacine
appearance, or the Iharpnefs of their
claws. At 1 ast the veil of prejudice has been
torn off ; the many have felt the truth
of what the few had told before ; genuine
philolophy has triumphed Over the charms
that dazzled their understandings ; be
sides the pcrfcct knowledge the French
patriots have acquired of th? rights of
man, they know also, that wolves are but
artificial beings in the human species ; they
have found them t i morour, and even
more so than those they had terrified du-,
ring several centuries : if they found them
superior to themselves, it was only in
falfities and treachery."
[from Correjponder:ti.~\
It is observed by many philosophers in
the old world, that if VICE did not ex
it!, Virtue would not be known." This
axiom is evidently verified in the new
world. While we congratulate the foils
and daughters of Columbia on the re-elec
tion of our virtuous Prejident and Vice
president, it is fmcerely hoped that neither
of these re-elections will prove injurious to
the cause of freedom. The cafe of the
French emigrants among that gallant, and
now free nation, teaches us, that ambition
Dnce taking pnffeflion of the human brealt",
cannot be eaiily eradicated. At the fame
time, we are taught by the French repub
lican patriots, that principles ofariftocra
cy may, by proper inftrufction, be changed
into wholesome democracy, and that the
fh-ong desire for titles and diftinftions of
nobility may, in the end, concur with the
democratic principle in forwarding the
glorious eftablifiiment of a plain, otcono
nomic, republican government, supported
an the balis of liberty and equality.
The writings of an aristocratic, specula
ting faction at Hartford, in favor of mo
narchy and titular diftinftions, and pub
lidied in their papers, are fufficient to con
vince any candid person, that the old in
'ular enemy to the independence and pros
perity of America has her hired emiifaries
at work in that part of the Union, to bring
ibou.t a political change, and, as far aspof
ible, give our government a twist into the
'l.apc of her own corrupted form. It is
"ome confblation that the aftnine poison of
hefe writers has very little circulation be
fond a certain Jpct, and that even in " the
lot-bed of American aristocracy," it is ge
nerally despised. The writers,
uded to, as profcll'mg openly the fame
principles, may be considered equally
nimical withthe old defund tories of 1775,
ind in reality their fupplememifts and fuc
:efibrs; and tho' their political duration
may be co-eval with the present imported
British system in this country, they must
fall oif when that is become (as it soon
mud be) an object of univerfaldeteftation,
.onteinpt, and abhorrence.
" So learned Taliacotius from
The brawny part of porter's bum
Cut supplemental noses, which
I.acted as long as parent breech ;
But when the date of that was out.
Offdropt each supplemental snout."
A writer in a late paper laments that
Louis the fifteenth is no longer an object of
regard with the republican citizens Of the
United States ; and accuses thetn of ingra
titude 111 not, at least, coinmiferatijig the
man " who facrificed his crown to eman
cipate the Western world," &c. Without
controverting the truth of this alfertion,
we may jnft observe there was a time, alio,
when General Arnold was entitled to the
praise and gratitude of all Americans.
Subsequent events, however, let them in
to a knowledge of his true character, and,
ever since, the debt of gratitude has been
considered as 110 longer due. The final
("entence of the National Convention w ill,
doubtless, soon unveil the real character of
Louis to the eye of the v orld : but there
will always be a parry in this country,
who, with refpeft to the fallen French mo
narch, or whenever a culprit king is in the
cafe, will be apt to cry out, with the Ro
man in the play—
" Take care, speak sure, think well, and
lay no blame,
Cesar did never wrong—but with iuffc
cause!"
Withfome people, defeftsare every day
becoming more and more apparent in the
old state constitutions. With increase of
[alary and political consequence a fort of
wonderful new light has fallen upon many,
that enables them to discern faults, which
formerly were imperceptible 10 the best
understandings. The truth is, that the old
state constitutions, in general, have too
much of the simplicity of republicanism in
themfor Come modern tastes. A new fort of
leaven is wanting to make puff-pafle ; and
if the old batch .of thirteen was not pro
perly raif'ed, there are newfangled bakers
in abundance that offer to cotjolidatexhtw
into one loaf, and make it as light as ;i
muffin* A writer in a New-Jersey paper
has broached the following odd opinion on
thisfubjeft—" The N. JeiTey state confli
tution was formed at a period when the
trne principles of a representative govern
ment were but imperfectly undci flood—
The politicians of that day were theorijls
rather than practitioners. Experience has
since proved to what perfection tlie/oj'ranf
a representative government can be earn
ed—l fay, repre/entdtive, in a contradif
tinftion to republican, or democratic ! ! !
PRICE OF STOCKS.
Six Per Cents jqf t
•Three Per Cents j if.
Deferred li/iO
£a/ik tf the United States c. ad.*•' • ' - ■-••• * ,■ . •
The following elegiac lines M ere tranf
mrttc-'! to the Vditor lor publication ;
being the protfu&ion of-r. voung lacly ol
iNewport, Rhcde-Ifland.
1° Memory of Gideon J. Wanton ;
aidrejjed to his Si'Jlev.
J?' ' A G;V"E S r,' ? ria, it the muse too rude
1 1 • rc* ,, s lacred filencc dares intrude,
Receive the eft u (ions of a heart firrcere
"Which prompts fcrthee the un«.ft'e<f*ed tear,
Which mourns with thee that virtue cannot
save
From tiie dire grasp of the relentless grave—
While Wanton, br/ghteft of the youthful train,
fhardcck'd ilhoJe-llland's once delightful plain:
While flu.Vd with hope, in youth's, in beauty's
fcloom
He finks from life to an untimelv tomb,
While friendship, love, and fortune court Vis fta\
J-le's torn from life, from all its jovs awav !
Ah ! can the rnofe who lotr'd for him to sing
Negledt to tuiie the melancholy firing ?
Can 1, who joyous hail'd thy morning ray
Refute thy letting Oram one mournful lay ?
Ail no ! nor wid thy gentle (hade refufe
The fad oblation of tne friendly muse:
Kut, tho* for thee the tears of friend/hip flow,
Thy parents' griefs surpass all other wee !
What ray (hall now the gloom of care relieve
Or gild the (hades of life's deferred eve ?
"Who looth the that tear thy fitter's heart i
O, that the mute some cordial wouM impart !
Thv only, which augment the blow
Can bring a balsam to relieve their woe :
Virtues that here acquire so bright a bloom
Receive freih energy beyond the tomb.
-And may thy filial, thy fraternal love
Have flown before thee to the realms above,
In Iweet memorial rif'n before the throne
And made the blil's of paraaife thy own. !
O, if departed spirits still can know
The agonizing pangs of human woe.
To their affiifted bosoms whisper peace
And bid the poignancy of sorrow ccafe,
Shew them the dangeis of a longer flay,
Snares that infect, and woes that 11-cw the Way
Tell them that guilt might even tby bosom stain
And form the basis of feveier pain :
S *3ff are the tears for innocence that fall;
'Tis guilt alone that brings unrr.ingJed gall !
AMY".
Newport, R. I. 2d 3d month, 1757.
JlI. Condorcet's ReJleSiotis on the EngHjl
Revolution of 1688, and that of France,
on the 10th of Augufl, 1792.
£Continued from No. 134, and concluded.'
WE tell the English, the Dutch.
the Swiss, the Swedes, the in
habitants of the Imperial cities, and thof;
fubjefh of the princes of the Empire, whe
have ft ill preserved forne franchifes, as wel
as the various nobles who reside in the
States of Hungary, Audria, and Bohe
mia, that our cause is theirs, and that the)
cannct support the maxims of the Empe
ror and the King of Pruflia without abju
ring all their rights, and consecrating
themfelvcs to servitude.
" There are two species of free conftitu
tions in exillence, or at least having ch':
forms of freedom.—The firft, like those ol
a part of the United States of America,
have one single prin iple of decision, by
which all questions on which judgment
nuift be pafled, and all affairs in which
public fafety requires an affcive part (hould
be taken, are necefTai ily brought to a con
clusion.
" The other, on the contrary, like the
Enghfh conftitntion, has a double or a tri
ple principle of dtcifion. According to
this, nothing less than the agreement of all
the powers to which the right of deciding
is confided, can produce a final determina
tion, and the want of agreement between
these independent powers, can flop the ac
tivity of the social Ivl'tem,
" If constitutions like this have been the
result of the ancient cultoms of a nation—
if at the moment in which they have assu
med a regular form, those to whom they
gave a right of acting in contradiction to
the will of the people, have had the pru
dence never to practice this right ; if, in-
Head of an unity of principle established by
law, tl.eir policy has fubftitutcd another,
(as in England for example) the maxim ol
never refilling the two Houses of Parlia
ment, and of never a£ting in contradiction
even of one of them, except on Extraordi
nary occasions, when the majority is weal;
and appears not to;accord with the national
will, then, indeed, such coiiftitutions may
continue for a long time without exciting
tr ,übles.
" But if, on the contrary, the habit o!
d lguifing an efTentialand radical vice (houlc
not prevail 5 if in a firft attempt those whe
exercised a negative right over the repre
fentatives of the people, have abused that
right ; if the nation has been informed ol
the inconveniencies and dangers resulting
from this combination of independent
powers, then such a constitution cannot
but be fatal to the tranquility and the
freedom of the citizens; Then unity of
principle becomes an cfFential condition ol
the social fyfttm, and the na'ion would be
ixpofed to proreed from revolution to re
volution,till it ffiould arrive at the necefTarv
fimpbeity; because it could no longer nil
fatisfied with pofleffing it in fait, as
prcfent in England ; for it cos.ld never
fuppoie itftlf secure, unless she principle
were eftabbflied bylaw.
" 1 bus the unfortunate attempt made
in trance, to form a constitution with .1
double principle, has rendered its continu
ance impossible. This, enlightened men
foretold, but their counsel* were rejected,
1 he person to whom the dangerous right
of opposition was «ntrufted, as might have
been forefeen, beheld in this right the
means only of suspending the adtivity ol
the two powers, of betraying them with
impunity, and by the aid of the constitu
tion, todeftroy freedom.
" From this t me, therefore, foreigr
powers may contemplate France asdirefted
to the future by one united will; and that,
in her external connections, (lie can hav;
no other motive for adVon, but tha' o:
uifety and prosperity. All States, what
ever their government, from the Kings o<
Sardinia and Naples, to the Republics o
Basle and Zurich, from the Dukes of S:ix
:>ny and Wirtembcjg, to the cities o
Hamburgh or of Franckfort, ought it
-onfider trance as the only barrier, ovei
the whole continent, which can be oppo
fed to the coalition of great monarchies
and the sole guarantee of the independenci
of in lerior powers.
" Mean time all ideas of a fadkion npar:
from the nation itftlf, of a will of the peo
pie of Paris diftintt from that of the de
partments, all the chimeras credited b\
[he court of the Thuillerie's, and of in'
triguing parti fans, who call themfclves con
Ititutional, all the fables, under the guid
v?.ce of which Louis XVI. condudiec
his double conspiracy, no longer cat
deceive any man ; and Europe cannol
but be convinced, that Russia and Au
hia alone have an interest in troubling
France; that the King of Prussia is the
iupe of that ambition with which they have
nfpired him, and that his fafetv, like that
if the other independent States of Europe.
;s connected with the preservation of the
po . er of France, which cannot be deitroy
eJ without dragging after it in its fall the
fovereignty and freedom of all other nati
311 S.
" Such is the point of view in which
the revolution of the 10th of August can
not fail to be seen by men capable of re
(kdlion, whatever may be their country
and their principles.
" Whoever wilh not to pass under the
yoke of Catharine, Francis, or William,
all who hope to preserve their property, li
berty, and some little honor, independent
Df their gracious will and pleasure, ought
to combine with the French nation, and
universally to unite in opposition to that
tile swarm of marauders, who under the
name of French emigrants, have spread
falfliood and corruption through foreign
countries. What ! can the heroes who
have served under Fredrick the Great,
Dau'n, and Laudun, defcetid to be thr
'ile instruments of Calonne, Breteuil, and
Bouille, alternately fattened by the blood
Itieaming from their negroes, and the in
irigiies of miftrefTes and ministers, in, the
profits of which they partook ?
"Will the Prussian nation perfill in
naking war on the French, who considered
.in alliance with Prussia as a means of ef
:aping the snares laid by the court of Louis
XVI ? A war made in favour of that very
court which refufed this alliance, and fa
criiiced the interest of France and the fafe
ty of Prussia to the ambition of the house
of Austria ? How can the European pow
e'f, who have acknowledged the Prince of
Orange as the fubititute of James 2d. dif
npprove the elediive council that has been
fubllituted to the King of the French :
Why cannot the French nation ast rela
tively to Louis XVI. as the United Pro
vinces of America have adted with respect
to George 111.
" Let us suppose that the French will
form a constitution founded on pure equal
ity; that this constitution, proposed by a
national convention in conformity to the
will of the people, should be fully adopted
by the nation ; that no hereditary rights,
no personal inviolability, no predominating
power, dangerous to liberty, fully this con
stitution, nor oblige it to invent a counter
poise, an opposition of power to power
deltiudlive of simplicity and the operations
of government ; that the expression of the
National Convention will become one;
tint no refinance can impede it; that the
people themselves appoint their own re
presentatives, and that sage precautions
prevent any inconveniencies which might
an'fe from these two lait inllitutions ; will
the powers of Europe then refufe to ac
knowledge us as a&ing for the nation, be
caule we (hall have rigorously followed tlu
iiiimmutahle principles of natural right:
If so, they mull avow, by their conduct.
that the principles which are true in Ame
nca, are falfe in Europe ; and that tlu
fartie maxim is true or falfe, criminal oi
virtuous, according as their insidious po
licy requires."
Philadelphia, January 12, 1793
MATHEW CAREY
Respectfully informs the Citizens of th<
United States, that the Mapsfor his
intended edition of
Guthrie's Geography
improved;
Are now engraving—and as soon as a fufiicien
number of them are finifhed, to secure a regulj
supply during the publication,which will proba
bly be early next Spring, the"*work will be pu
to press.
He returns his acknowledgments to the -ver
refpeftabie number of fubferibers, who have com
forward thus early to patronize this arduous un
dertaking. He alTures them and the public h
general, that no pains or expence (hall be /pared n
the execution of the work,
1 erms of the IVork :
I. IT fiiall be publi(hed in 48 weekly num
bers, each Containing three (beets, or twenfy-fou
pages, of letter pref*, in quarto, printed withncw
types on fine paper.
11. in the cou: fe of rhe work will be delivers
about thirty large maps, of the fame size as thof
in the F uropean editions, viz. most of them
maps on post paper.
bcjitWs the maps in the Rrilijh Edition
this ivork w'i.l contain nine or ten American State
Maps,
HI. The price of each number-will oe a ouar
>er dollar, to be paid on delivery.
(tT^ 3 No advance required.
IV. Suuiciibers who disapprove of the work,
on the publication of the three firft numbers, art
to be at liberty to return them, and diall have
their money repaid.
V. The fubferibers* names /hall be prefixed a;
patrons of (he undertaking.
%* Sub;cri|itions received in Philadelphia b\
ilie intended publiilicr ; in New-York., by all the
booksellers ; in New-Haven, by M . Beers : i,
Hartford, by Mr: Patten ; in Bolton, by Mef
i bomas and Andrews, and by Mr. Weft - /
Baltimore, by Mr. Rice ; in Richmond, bv Lr.
J. Care, ; in Charlellon, by Mr, W. P. Young,
and by furidry other pcrfons throughout the Uni
ted States. , awti
A CAm lON TO THE PUBLIC.
ALL persons are forewarned how they t2ke
an alignment upon a bond of £. 112 : rc
( bearing date January 26, 1792, given~ by MOR
DEC AI and NATHAN HOLT, of-the town (hi j
of HorlTiam, count? of Montgomery, and Stated
l 3 enn fylvania, unto JJaiab Quinby of the town
'hip of Amwell, county of Hunterdon, State o
New-Jersey ; as the sum fptcilled within fait
bond has been lawfully tendered to the said Jfai
jh Quinbv on the day it became due ; but he
having retufed to comply with certain llipulati
uns agreed to before incontestable evidences, pre
vious to his receiving said bond, wc are now dc.
termined toconteft the fame.
MORDECAI HOLT.
NATHAN HOLT.
P. S. Said bond was obtained by illegal mean'
and may probably be contested for reasons no
here referred to.
Horflum Townihip, January 2S 1793.
3t.i.frjw
Jufi Published,
By H. & P. RjCE, No. 50, Market-Street,
THE SYSTEM OF
<o/i ort- c&a net,
Uled bv Mi". Llovd, in tiking down the
DEBTES of CONGRESS.
%* REPRESENTATION 'having been made,
that ihe (hortnefs of the period, limited for thi
fjbfcription, has deprived many gentlemen at a
distance, of an opportunity of fending in their
names :—The Editor, in order to accommodar?
them, and to render this publication more ex
renfively u feful, has determined not to raise the
price to a dollar and an half (as intended) before
the fifteenth of March 3 —making however a dis
crimination, in favor of the a&ual fubferibers,
by printing their copies on fuperjine royal writing
paper. A few remaining copies of this kind will
be delivered to the earliest of the non-fubferibin
purchafers, at the fame price as those on the com
mon printing paper, viz. one dollar, in marbled
covers ; neatly bound, a French crown.
J an - 25- 4c.
A FEW COPIES OF THE
transactions
Of the Society in flituted in the State c)
New-York, for the promotion of
AGRICULTURE, ARTS, and MANU
FACTURES,
May be had at this Office." *
[Price half a dollar.J
Jan. 5.
Terres a Vendre
Dar.s un pais bien pcuple,—
S AVOIR, ioixante cinq rnille, trois cens, foix
ante et quatorze Acres, en une feale piece
dans le canton le mieux peuple de la Caroline Ms
ridiowale, le Diftiia de Ninety.Six. Ces terre
lont fituees dans une contrce et falubre
«>u les fievres font iuconuuesj a environ vingt lieuee
cie Colombie, laCapitale, et contigues ala vili
de Cambridge, eu ii y a College, et Cour fuperi,
eure. A environ douze lieues, ily a bonne nave
gation ; et il eft tres probable, que dans quelqui
rerns on rendra navigable le Grand Salude, riviere
qui arrofe les terres memes. Elles font agreable*
ment diverfifiees de coteaux et vallons charman
propres a la culture du tabac, du coton, du mai's,
et du petit grain jet dont une proportion confldex
able Je peut ayement convertir en prairies fertiles.
ilneeft peut-etre gueres pofiible de rencontreru'e
.jareiile piece deteire a vendre dana aucun autre
des Etats Unis jet pour les conditions de i'ach at
on les rendra tres commodes.
S'informsr a Timpiimerie de la GazeNa
tionale. g e
LANDS for SALE,
JN a well fettled Country. SIXT Y-FIVE
THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
SEVENT Y-FOUR ACRES OF LAND, in one
oody, in the molt populous part of the state of
South-Carolina, in the diftria of Nineiy-fix— It
is situated ip. a fine healthy climat»,free from fever
& ague,about sixty miles from Columbia, the feat
>f The land is contiguous to the
town ot Cambridge, where are « feminarv so the'
inltruclion ol youth, and a fuperiorlaw couit. ]t
IS at p.elent within about thirty-five miles of good
navigation, with a probability of having the river,
called the Gieat Saluoa, that flows along one fide
"J, e i and ; J nade navigable. The land is beauti
fuliy diveilined jnto Iwells and vales, and is per
feflly well calculated for the cultuie of tobacco,
cotton, Indian corn, and small grain ; a greac
propntien of it may be made meadow ground.
. here is not, perhaps, such a body of land, so ci<-
cumftanced, for fafe i,l anv other ; the U; States.
I lie terms of payment will be made convenient to
the purchaser or puichafeis. Apply to the Prii ter.-
Augull 29. lawtf
Philadelphia <£r New-York
stages,
BY WAY OF
BURLINGTON, BORDENION, fcf SOUTH.
AMBOT—
Hart from Samuel Csoftr's Ferry, oppo
site to Philadelphia, every Sunday and Wed
'l. fday morning, during the winter season, and
nrive at South-Amboy on Monday, and Thursday
-venings—where a good boat will be ready to coa
vev Goods and Pafi'engers to New-Yoik.
The Stage boats will leave New-York every
Monday and Thurfd»y, so as to meet the Stares
from Philadelphia at Amboj, to proceed for Phi
ladelphia next day. All belonging to
vflengersto be at their own rilijue.
All Goods forwarded by the Stages on bill, to
be under the particular care of ile Proprietors of
the Stages j but not warranted against robbery or
damage—And alt entering, dealing and permits,
to be paid by the owners of goods.
Price of a passage from Cooper's ferry to New-
Yo ' k - " - £0. 18. 9.
zcolb. ol Goods, to pay the price of a paflage.
All Way paflengtrs, td pei mile.
AMOS HUTCH IN, and 7 For BurW
NICHOLAS SCHENCK, S ton line.
VAN EMSURGH & M'KEAN, ? For Borden
and DAVID WILLIAMSON, 5 ton line.
January 16, 1793. [law. w.
W A T C II E S.
ROBERT LESLIE,
CLOCK and WATCH MAKER, No. 167,
Market-flreet.
AFTER returning his sincere thanks to his
Iriends, and the public in general, for the
Jieat encouragement he has experienced since the
commencement of his business in this city, takes
this opportunity of informing tbcm that, in con
sequence of his intention of going to London in A
pril next, he is felling oli, at very reduced prices,
nis stock in trade, confining of a very large and
general a(l"jrt:nent of enamelled and plain gold,
gilt ap 1 silver, capt, and capt and j-welled
WARRANTED WATCHES,
Moll of which arc of the latest importation and
newest fafliion, — Also a variety of the highest fi
nilhed cut steel, and gilt, ladies and gentlemen's
Watch Chains, Seals, Keys, and Trinkets, toge
ther with a few Gold Chains, Keys and Seals.
Philad. Jan, 16, 1795. , c f, lr -.
x liofe gentlemen, in different parts of the
Union, w ho hold
SUBSCRIPTION PAPERS FOR THE
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
Are requested to make returns of the fubferi
bers'names as soon as convenient—
Meifrs. the Printers, also, who have, at my
lequert, published the propolals, will please to fend
in their refpeftive accounts. JOHN CAREY,
No. 26, Pear-Street, Philadelphia.
for fate, at tin printing office, a few copier
cf the firfl volume of the National Gazette.
PRINTED 3 V
CHILDS and SWAINE,
AT THEIR OFFICE NO. 20Q, HTGH-STREETf
FEAR FIFTH-STREET
Philadelphia#