By P FRE NEA U: (at No. 209, Market Street) Publijhed. Wednesdays and Saturdays, [Three Dollars per annum.2
Numb. 96 of Vol. ll.] SATURDAY, September 28, 1793.
address
Of the National Convention to the
French People.
26thjune, 1793, 2d I(car of the Republic-
Citizens,
YOUR. Representatives, faithful to their
dary and to their engagements, have
completed the Co.iftitutioi, and are about
to convoke the primary alFeinblies. ihi
in their answer to the enemies ot equality
and liberty.
The National Convention having dif
cbarged the firft, the molt urgent, andmoft
sacred of its duties, will in a few days lay
before tile nation thecaufes ot the divillous
which have agitated the Republic at large;
causes which have so long withheld from
the order of the day the moll important
objects of deliberation, and, by reviving
civil discord, infjaired foreign powers with
the hopes of making conqUeits agiinlt a
Republic torn by fa£tions.
But whi Ift a legal convocation is rtbout
to re-unite you into primary aii'emblies, in
order to lay the eternal balls of liberty and
equality, the foundations of a republican
government ; those who have conftautly
betrayed their country, are now giving the
lignal of civil war i:i all parts of the Re
public.
War maintained by fanatacifm not mak
ing aprogrefsl'ufliciently rapid, they give a
new colour to the infurreftions which they
excite ; they midead by the idolatry of
persons and reputation, and the delulion
of political opinions, those whom religious
fanatacifm corld not seduce.
Could they carry their defigus into exe
cution, France woidd soon be given up to
greater horrors than Poland experienced,
which underwent the yoke of three tyrants,
■without having drawn h fwnrd. She
would destroy herfelf in * ie p'refence of
tl * combined powers and of their armies
alfcmbt'ed on our frontiers : instead ot a
fertile country and flourifhing cities, (lie
would present only the horrid fpeftacle of
fields of carnage and heaps of allies.
Citizens, the traitors who did their ut
most to midead you and to hurry you away
into their revolt, propose to you to march
against Paris and the National Convention.
Can Paris be an object 6f hostility to the
Republic? Is It not the alylutn of your
brothers and the cradle of liberty ? Like
you, the citizens of Paris wished for the
constitution ; they have denounced the au
thors of the evils with which France is
opprefled.
When on the 20th of June last year, Pa
ris proclaimed the dangers of the country
and the conspiracy of the last of its king*,
some admini(\rators, traitors to their
country, usurping the sovereign powers,
offered to reinforce the guard of the con
spirator, and to fend numerous battalibns
against Pari-;. France was soon undeceiv
ed. The federates of the 83 departments,
when arrived at Paris, found none but
brothers there, and (hared with them the
dangers aud the glory of overturning the
throne.
In like manner, when France fliali be
fully acquainted with the causes and events
which neceditated the denunciation of the
3tit of May and the decree of arrest paflcd
on the 2d of June, against 32 members of
the National Convention, (lie will approve
the wisdom and the happy result of these
measures.
Can the difTohition of the Convention be
the object of your with? Is it proposed
to you to abolifii it ?
What government would then remain to
you? Whither would you rally ? What
would become of eleven armies aflembied
on the frontiers and on the coalts ? Can
the action of government be suspended for
a (ingle day ? Should the departments dis
own the Convention, the Republic would
be without a government, without a cen
tral adininiftration; the armies would
tlifperfe ; foreign powers would invade
our territory: Frenchmen would turn their
arms against themselves, and the Republic
would be annihilated.
Citizens, your most dangerous enemies
are those who precipitate you into civil
war.
Those magistrates wham you had chosen
to maintain the police and to discharge the
municipal functions, those administrators
whom you had elected to execute the laws
and to be the agents of government, have
seized upon the government itfelf, and
have grasped at the national sovereignty.
Your rights, your interests have been a
bandoned and facrificed. In many of the
adininiftrative aflemblies your fsrvice his
b»?n wholly negle£ted,whilft the only object:
of concern were deputations, plots, coaliti
ons, i& projeitsof war againli the Republic.
Those functionaries did not luok on as
thei.' brothers arid fellow citizens, five
hundred thousand Frenchmen who have de
voted thenil'elves to the defence of liberty
against tyrants. Dy intercepting the ar
tillery, amu>uniiiou and provilions, they
expcifed them t ) perish to no purppfe, and
without cementing with their blood the
foundations of the Republic.
Geieroin warriors whom so many trea
sons have not artonilhed, you Have con
ltantly rallied to the fttnd. rd of the Re
public and to the tree of liberty.
You have surmounted by your courage,
the oi.ftacks which La Fayette and Du
monrier had oppofcd to your success. A
new conlpiracy drtefled, is the last crisis
through which you were to pass, in order
to conquer and eflabliili liberty.
You alio expected a confutation which
your arms will make Europe respect; the
lability of a free and acknowledged go
.'ernm;nc will etifure you success ; the
;onllitution will powerfully support your
irms, and will conduct you, through vic
:ory, to peace.
In the midrtofher agitations and difor
lers, France counts but a fniall .number of
onfpiracors. The mass of citizens, al
ways pure, inspired by sentiment, eulight
:ned by eternal reason, has preserved it
elf from fed action and error.
Thole adminiftrStive bbdies, whomtrai
ors had lljrrcd up against the Republic,
■ecollect at lull, that they have a country,
ind that they can have nolle othex than
:he Republic.
The National Convention has received
'rom several departments, recantations
.vhich will prove to potterity, that the vir
:u oust man in ay be milled, b net hat be opens
lis eyes to the light before his error be
:onies hurtful tofociety and humanity.
The examples, whiift they warn us to re
irefs confulionat its firit appearance, and
to be severe towards the factious and the
.onfpirator, make it the duty of a humane
egiflator to receive with indulgence the
deluded fellow citizen, and to ofter only
nlfruition to those who have always been
lttached to their country, and who want
jnly to be informed in order to relume
heir rank among good citizcns.
Citizens who have sworn to befree, whe
ivifhto have a country, aconltitution, rallj
:o the National Convention, who pledge
tfelf to preserve the Republic one and in
livilible.
EXTRACT from the New-Brunswick
Advertiser: being part of an Ad
dress on a very inter eftiugfubjeit.
1J" ET me now be indulged in speaking :
■*-' few words on theprolpe£l there seem:
:o arise of a' war between Great-Britair
ind the United States, which fee is to b«
:he delign ot the Prelident's proclamatior
to avert. It appears to me and I presume
:o every thinking man in the United States,
►hat we have had and (till have an indirect
war with that reltlefs-and deligning nation,
nearly lince the ligning the late peace—
through their unjult detention of the wefi
-rn polls—which it was prefu:iied at thai
treaty they really meant to give up in the
courte ot a year or two—taking a reason
able time lor their Indian traders to call in
their property fronrthe didant regions. Il
is true that that part of the treaty is loofly
worded, and not so explicit as a bargain
school-boys would have made in the tranf
fer ot a top, a ball, or a marble—yet I
think the honelt un(nfpe£ling hearts of out
commifioners thought the tfritons as ho
nest as themlelves, and that they would
luon give lip those ports according to the
true intent and meaning of the treaty, and
I can by no means impute their condufr, as
has been surmised, to Britilh gold dull
blinding the eyes of their underflanding in
the ligning that article.
From this cause, without a doubt arising
in the mind of any sensible man I have con
versed with on this fubjett, springs the war
with the Indians, for it is well known that
at those polts they are supplied not only
with arms and ammunition, but with every
article they Hand in need of for their ra
vage depredations, in which the United
States have fjtfered the loss of thousands
of men, women and children, betides the
expenditure of at lead five millions of dol
lars, and in this present year, I doubt whe
ther the account will be closed under two
millons, and perhaps the lives of many of
our worthy/ellow which'money
(hould hive been applied ,to pay our just
debts: add to this, their late and present
depredations on the ocean, perhaps not
less than 150 of our veflels, taken by then),
from our honest merchants, and unjultly
detained, to the ruin of their families, and
our unarmed Teamen treated in an inhu
man manner. Now if we are to bear all
this without a profpeft of redrtjfs, dud our
hands to be tied up, let us strike out from
our new made calendar the Day that ha:
bees kept in remembrance of our birth as
a nation, and turn to lick the dust that des
pots are preparing for us. If the Britons
with to be at peace with the United States,
let them come forward and ftiew an exam
ple of justice and humanity, by immediate
ly giving up Niagara, Detroit, and all the
extent of country they ceded to us by the
la;e treaty of peace ; but so long as they
hold thole polls, they certainly war in 2
daltardly manner against us. And Jet 0111
government also cofne forward and fliew
an example of justice to the natives, ant
[his terrible and expensive war will fooi
:ea!'e. It is true that wc as private citi
zens cannot judge fully of these matters,
lot knowing the secret springs of govern
ment, but so far as they have come to 0111
cnowledge, we as free citizens have a righi
:o judge for ourfeives, and may and ough;
:o remonffrate to Congress whenever ihey
ire in feffton, which I trust will be verj
"0011. There seems indeed a general dreac;
if war Tept, I know not how, among ns
[ wouh here ajli, have the Americans 101 l
heir v: rue? Are they callous to insult:
Vom a bankrupt nation? In my humble
spin',o:i we never had nor perhaps nevei
ivill have a time,for humbling the Englilh(il
Mongrels thinks it proper to take time bj
:he for.Jock to do their country ample ju-
Irice) liice the present time; but if it car
be don "iy proper negociations, and the Ig
nited ates'at the fame time fulfil witl
honour .uoir treaty with the French nati-
Dn, our allies/in the name of humanity, ft
be it.
Upon the whole, I beg to be indulged ir
moving this very respectable audience, thai
i resolve may be made that a dutiful peti
tion be prepared and] sent to the Fathei
t>f our country, intreating him to iflue hi:
request to both branches of the federal go
rernment to meet sooner than their latt
*djonniment was fettled at, as we conceiv<
the critical situation of our country call
for the immediate best counfelsof our wif
:it citizens at this present time.
And also that a Resolve be imriiediatelj
made by us, that we enter into the spirit o
liis proclamation, so far as to allure hin
that we wili not direOly or indire£tiy fii
out any veflels for the purpose of war, awe
that so far as our power can be lawful!)
exerted, we will dii'courage any overt
that may be attempted among us, uuti
Congress thinks it proper to uuloofe oui
hands."
/
Governtr HANCOCK'S Speceh to tin
Legijlature of M.iJfjchufctts, at the open
ing of their SeJJioni on the 18M of Sep
tember inflant,
Mr.Prefidei't.-diid Gentlemen oftheSenate
Mr.Speaker,and Gentlemen of the Houff
of Representatives,
""PHE Proclamation by which the Gene
ral Court is convened, contains £
copy of a civil precept. The service o;
which on me, andonthe attorney-general
was the principal reason of my exercifinj
this part of that authority devolved on nit
by the constitution.
The suit commenced by W1 Lf.rAM VAs
sAL,if the commonwealth is held to an
swer thereon, mull be decided on principle:
very interesting to its welfare as a slate.
I cannot conceive that the people of thi:
commonwealth, when they, by their Re
presentatives in Convention, adopted the
Conflitution of a General Government
expected that each slate fliould be held lia
ble to answer 011 compulsory civilprocefs
to every individual resident in anothei
state, or in a foreign kingdom. Three
Judges of the United States of America,
having solemnly given it as their opinion,
that the several liates are thus liable, the
question then [us become highly important
to the people.
I did not find myfelf authorized in virtue
of my office as governor ol the common
wealth, to appear, either by myfelf or by
uiy substitute, in any court of jultice, eithei
to deny the authority of the court over this
government, or to lubmit to its jurifdic
cion in a point, which I cannot, at present,
consider as fettled. Nor did I conceivt
that any other perfoi) touid have that ay
[Total Numb. 200.]
thor -y, without afpecial appointment by
the Jegiflature for that purpose.
J he service of this process being laid
before the Council, they advised me to
call the two Koufesinto feflion. My opi
nion accorded with their advice, for seve
ral reasons ; some of which are too ob
vious to need repeating—others I will fug -
geft Lo you.
Uie demand of William VafTal, if I am
not mistaken, in his design and in the ten
dency of the process, will involve and con
clude a question of legality, on the mode
of confifcating the persona! estate of that
class of people, who, in our laws, are de
nominated Absentees. It is therefore
neceflary, that effectual meaftires lliould be
peedily adopted, to prevent a determina
tion, which may so greatly injure the in
terell, and so di'fagreeably affect the feel
ings of the citizens of this commonwealth.
Should you, gentlemen, he of opinion*
lhat by the constitution of the United
Stares, the Commonwealth may becem
pelled to answer on this process, you will,
make such provision for defending again ft
the itiit, as shall appear to you to be pro
per and expedient.
Should you coniider the commonwealth
not to be thus liable, your deliberations
will beftich, as will tend to procure to the
-onftitution, under which this authority is
:lairrled, a more favourable and a more
unexceptionable confttuftion. But it may
lappen that your investigation may lead
(■ou to conclude, that the conftru&i
diis given to the judiciary power of the
United States, by three ot the judges, is
-ight, according to the letter of the coufti
:ution, and yet, that it will tend to the
promotion of peace and harmofjy in the Li
lian, and to the preservation of our fede
-al government, so happily ellablifhed, to
procure such alterations iu the judiciary
irticlei, as may fecurejhe States fev-eraliy,
n the enjoyment of that (hare oHVf
y, which it was intended they should re
;ain poifefs. In this last cafe you will
iireit your measures to that point.
From these considerations, I confiderecl
t as absolutely neceFary, that you should
ie in feflion at an earlier day than that to
■vhlch the general court flood adjourned,
i'our deliberations 011 this fubjeft will take
ome time, and though Congress will meec
jn the iirfl: monday in December, yet their
effion may be fliort. You could not,
therefore, after the last Wednesday inja
luary, have tini# to do what «-i!l be necef
ary. The court too, where this suit is
lending, will be in ieflion early in Fe
bruary, and the result of the business will
pe then expefied.
I avoid giving an opinion either on the.
question, vvhether the commonwealth is
liable to be sued, or whether if it is so cir
cumltanced, an attempt to procure an al
teration, is eligible. Yet I consider it to
oe of the last importance to the hap
piness and interest of the United States, as
well in their united, as in their separate
:apacity, to have this point, properly, fatif
tartorily and finally fettled. It is true that
llates, kingdoms, and empires ought to do
justice ; but it is as true, that there are cer
tain inherent principles in the conftitutioii.
of each, which can never be surrendered
without eiientially changing the nature'
or destroying the existence of the novernl
ment.
I believe that the commonwealth of
Maflachufetts, from the generosity and
good feelings of its citizens, will be always
ready, as iar as the people's abilitv fhaJL
idiilit of, to do justice to all men. Yet ia
order to preserve the peace and fafety of
the Union,, and to establish in the bofonis
of other nations, a confidence in the refli
tiide of this, it is very proper that there
(hould be a tribunal of justice, independent
of the particular states, which may be re-
Ported to in certain cases. This was in
tended to be provided for by the federal
constitution : but whether the present cafe
is properly before that tribunal,
to that constitution, or whether the procefi?
under confederation, is within the intend-;
ment of that provision, you will consider.
Whether the provision in the Federal
conilitution for the extension of the judicb;.
ary power to states, is intended to be er - .
ercifed in matters of civil contract, or in d .
ther matters which took place before thic
government was formed ; or whether it i
intended only to give a remedy for fu.-Jfi
injuries as may take place by force, ariiy
may therefore have a tendency to destroy
the peace of the Union, or involve the na
tion in a war with foreign powers, is of
consequence enough to demand a confide'-
ration. Jf fbe judiciary power of the Unit«n is'to exercised on questions of civil con
nects made by a State, the decilion mult be
had, either oil the laws ot'ihe state against
which the demand is made, or on those of
the ltate or kingdom to vvtlich the demand
ant belongs, or on the laws of the United
States: the absurdity of the two firlt need
not to be pointed out, but the other would
render the legifiative authority of Congress
over the particular ft ates, as mere corpo
rations commensurate to the claim of theju
diciary power. Wherethe demand shall be
for a recompenfeof damages reflilting'rom
an injury; there the law of nations, the Con
ftitulion of the United States, and exilt
ing treaties, will govern the decilion. And
even in that cale, it will be a question,
whether it should be intended that each
state is liable to be drawn to the (eet of
the federal government, and there tried
by a jury of the vicinage, ill the fame man
ner as a corporation would be treated.
Consrefs, no doubt, (hould you inflru£t
yourfenators on the fnbjeft, will take'time
to consider these questions, in proportion
to the important light they may appear in.
The Legislature of the Union, has never
yet contemplated this subject : For in the
eftablifhmen: of the judiciary fytfem it is
entirely neglected : No mention is made
in the aits of Congress of the fu ability of a
liate. Nor is there any process against a
state, provided for in the laws of the Uni
ted States.
Gentlemen of the Senate, and
Gentlemenof the House ofßeprefentatives,
When the government of the United
States was proposed to the people's consi
deration, I then was, and yet am, deeply
imprelfed with the necefiity '• of a more
perfect wtion eft/te jlates," than at that time
existed, and, therefore, exerted the share
of influence whish I polfeffed, in favour of
its being adopted. I then considered it as
being by no pjeans explicit in the descrip
tion of the powers intended t# be delega
ted; but trusted, that the wisdom of the
people would very soon render every part
ef it definite and certain. The idea, that
it isdangerous to examine'fyffems of go
vernment, and to compare the elfe£ls pro
duced fev their adminiflration, with the
principles on which they were raised, is in
admiflibie among a free peopfe. If the
people are capable of prattiting oil a free
government, they are able, without difor
-ders or convuifions, to examine, alter, and
amend the fyfteins which they have or
dained. — And it is of great confequencc to
ttie freedom of a nation to review its civil
constitution, and to compare the practice
under it, vritji the principles upon which it
depends. The tendency of every meaftire,
and the effect of evesy precedent, ought to
■be fcrupuloully attended to, and critically
examined.—This is the bulinefsof the re
presentatives of the people, and can never
be by them confided to any other persons.
The great obje£l presented to us by oOr
political situation, is the support of the
general government, the giving force and
efficacy to its functions, without destrOying
the power», which the people intended to
vest and to rcferve in-tlie state governments.
A consolidation of all the states into one
government, would at once endanger the
nation as a republic, and eventually divide
the states united, or eradicate the princi
ples whicn we have contended for.
It is much less hazardous to prevertt the
establishment of a dangerous precedent,
than to attempt an abolition of it, after it
has obtained a ptace in a civil institution.
Your fellow citizens wait this
event of your deliberations on the impor
tant bulinefs before you : And 1, as one of
them,reft fatisfied, thatthe result will be
such, as will eltablilh the rights of the
commonwealth, and give support and ef
ficacy to the general government. In this
■view, and in every other, in which the
peace, liberty and fafety of our fellow ci
tizens, not only of this state, but of the
United States, are concerned, reft assured,
gentlemen, that no effsrt nor zeal on my
part shall be wanting. I lhall, therefore,
only add, I will do every tiling inmy pow
er to expedite the business of the feifion,
and to render it as little expensive to our
•conflituents, as exigencies will admit.
JOHN HANCOCK.
Council-Chamber, iioltun, P
September 18, 1793. 5
FOREIGN 4FF4IRS.
Natitz; Ju\y r. " On the 29th lilt, we
received intelligence from every quarter,
that we were to be attacked at night'—
Some expected this event with fond impa
tience ; others with fear", and all with ter
ror. On the 3°th, at two in the morning,
we were awakened by the report of a can
non, which was soon followed by the firing
of more. The royalilts were then attack
ing the bridge of RonfTeau over the Seine,
■op the other fide of the Loire, and carried
it; but this was only a falfe attack.
"At break of day, all the polts on the
other fide of the Loire were attacked by
'different corps, one of which came by the
road of Angers, another by that of Rennes,
and a third by the way of Anrres. At all
these points, the defence was as vigorous
a> the attack. The patriots had 18 pound
ers ; but the royalists had only 12 pounders.
" The contest lasted with unabated fury
till fix at night, when the ardour of the as
failants began to flicken. At ten o'clock
they retreated in good order to Oudon, a
very strong poll between Mauves and An
cenis, tour leagues from Nantz. Some
fay, that the/ have evacuatedAncertis,others
alien, that they are preparing to return to
the charge with a superior force.—At, yet,
however, they have not renewed their at
tack.
" The patriots had 600 killed, and about
1500 wounded ; all the hospitals and con
vents are crammed with them, and there
scarce exists one family in 0111- town, but
has to lament the loss of a relation or
friend. As the royalists had made them
selves masters of the suburbs, the musket
balls fhouipred down upon the patriots
from every house, without their being able
to discover from whence they were iired
upon theiH The loss of the royalists is not
known, but it is not very considerable, be
-caufe they were covered by houses and
walls, and they every where appeared only
in final! numbers to direfl their artillery,
which was exceedingly well served.
" It is rather astonishing that the royal
ifts, having at their disposal a numerous
army, (hould have attacked so important
a town with a corps confiding of only 8000
men ; that they (liould have confined them
selves for 16 hours to a cannonade, inflead
of attacking the garrison with spirit and vi
gour, and that they did not avail themselves
of a moment, when the troops of tlie line
g3ve\vay, to rush upon them with fixed ba
yonets, and thus to decide the day in their
own favour.
" The poll nearthe bridge of RonlTeau
from which Gen. Beyflier in the morning
of the 30th had been dislodged, was eva
cuated again by the royalists on the follow
ing night. Fear, left the rdyalifts 'might
reap the fume advantages in another attack
from the suburbs, as they did on the 30th,
has caused the patriots to set fire to a great
number of houses, and to btirn them to the
gron nd.
" There are vefTels, without mads, which
were placed in the midst of the river, op
posite the bleaching place, ami were filled
with jorifoners fufpefted of royalifm, but
not convicted of any crime."
Genoa, July 2. The captain of a (hip just
arrived here from Ponente, brings intelli
gence, that, yesterday morning, he heard
a violent and lading cannonade, proceed
ing, by the wind, from the environs of
Nice, which leaves us to conclude that that
place is bombarded by the Spanish fleet.
London, July 25. We have just received
intelligenceX)f the Trench royalists having
again attacked Nantz ; ahd that tbe la ft
news from thence, was, that they were fir
ing red hot balls into the town, which it
was thought would fnrrender. The cap
ture of this place is more important at this
jundtwre. as we have season to believe that
it would greatly facilitate the operations
Df Lotd Howe, which it is generally sup
posed are directed to that quarter. «
IVarfaw, June 20- The king has deliver
ed in his written anftver to the Ruffian and
Prufliau minilters relative to the intended
partition of the republic of Poland. It is
in substance as follows : 41 I declared, that
I acceded to the general confederation of
Targovitz, under the anfpices of her im
perial majesty the emprefe of all the Rufiaas,
in consequence of the promise that the pof
fefiionsTaf the republic Ihould not be leflen
ed.
This was the sole motive that directed
Thy-cftnduct.
" My duty requires, that I (hould inform
the States afTembled in their Diet j that I
hope they preserve the fame sentiments as
myfelf in respect to the integrity of the
country.
'• I think that we ought to make a pru
dent and well refle&ed answer to the two
notes received from the allied court?, and
that all our demands ihould be confined to
a reditution of our territories.
" I flatter myfelf, that the wisdom and
equity of their imperial and royal majeflies
will allow that our nation has not in any
manner given occasion to the partition
which these two courts have judged proper
to make."
Bonrdeaux, July 6. " The privateer La
Citoyenne Francaife, of this port, Captain
Dubedat, mounting 26 carriage guns, 8 and
12 pounders, and 6fwivels, returned hither
yesterday, after a glorious engagement
which (he supported from 6 till half past
8 in the evening, against an Englilh frigate
of 40 guns, in lit. 42. 24. N. and long 15.
W. from the meridian of Paris. Captain
Dubedat was killed in the engagement by
a bullet which struck him in the bread.
Citizen Rigal. the second Captain, then
took the command, but the English frigate
being disabled in her bowsprit aud mizen
inaft dropt astern. La Citoyenne Francaife
pursued her ; but the captain finding it ne
cefl'ary to repair his running rigging, which
was all cut to pieces, and to fifh his lower
masts. which heobferved were in danger
of falling overboard, he loft fight of the
enemy in the night time, without being
able to discover her the next morning, a>
he was not in a condition to croud faTl in
order to Iceep up with her. La Citoyenne
Francaife had 16 men killed, and 37 wound
ed. She took a prize a few days after (lie
failed.
The Englifli frigate had on board a great
number of troops, who, by the fire of their
uiufi;etry, killed a great many of our peo
pic, as the enemy ware to the windward,
and kept tliat position notwithflandiug
every attempt to get the wind of them.
Captain Riga] bdflows great praises on
tile bravery ot his crew ; and, had not his
rigging and maflsbeen Co-much damaged,
he has no doubt that, corilidering the di
flreffed fhrte in which the English were, he
(lioutd have boarded and taken their vellel,
tho' he was inferior in force to the enemy.
Paris, Jnly-i2. BVrotean lias provoked an
infurreftion at Lyons, where the depart
ment holds a Congress, which has refolvei
to march a considerable force again'ft Paris.
This refolmion has been molt pom-poufi)
proclaimed. The whole city was iltumi.
nated ; the party of the mountain of the
Convention was declared to be outlawed
and all the provisions destined for the armie:
have been intercepted.
This day the Convention palled the fol
lowing decree againfl the rebeliious city o
Lyons.
iit- Biroteau is declared a traitor to hi
country, and outlawed : and likewise al
i he members of the'Congrefs of Rhone ant
Loire.
2d. The Executive Council filall ordei
troops to march againfl Lyons.
3d. The property of the persons outlaw
ed by this present decree, ihall be fequef
trated and put under Teal.
4th. The payment of the state creditor
resident at Lyons shall be suspended.
jth. All persons domiciliated at Lyon
shall be bound to quit that city.on the re
ception of this present decree," under paii
of having their property fequeftrnted; thi
commissioners of the Convention in the ar
my of the Alps are charged with the exe
cution of this decree.
The Pruflians have taken an inconfider
able village called Coflheim. in the neigh
botirhood ot Mentz, which was garrifone*
by some trench troops. They loft upward
of ijo men in the attack, killed ami roof
tally woutided.
July 26. The revolutionary tt ibnnal ha
pronounced sentence of death upon-thefol
lowing persons, accused of hav ing attempt
ed to take away the life of Leonard Hour
don, at Orleans, 011 the 15th March, viz
HenoitCouet, flock broker; John Henrj
Gellon,holier; Adrian Buiflort, merchant
Nicholas Jacquet, jun. gentleman ; J. Hap
till Qitefnel, muliciau ; James de la Salle
wax bleacher ; C. Philip Nonneville, gen
tleman ; Charles Taffin, freeholder; aftei
the President had communicated to the ac
cused the declaration tf the jury, they fel
on their knees, declaring, with tears an<
(hrieks, that they had been deceived, anc
were innocent I —this moving fpetlacle pre
vented the judges from pronouncing sen
tence, which was not done until the «2d
inft. at 4 o'clock in the afternoon. Tliej
were executed the 23d, at half part 5
r> clock in the alternoon, in the Square d(
la Revolution ; the greatefl part of tli<
(petfators murmured aloud, curling botl
the Convention and the Revolutionary tri
bunal.
PHILADELPHIA.
Saturday, September 28.
According to reports from the Jerfies.
he students have quitted the college a
Princeton, through an apprehension of thi
,'ellow fever spreading to that place. Iti:
idded, that the commencement, which i:
ield annually on the iaft Wednesday ir
September, is postponed.
We are informed that governor Han
rock, in his address to the legislature ol
Vlaflachufetts, on the ißthinft. through his
11 slate of health, exenfed himfelf fron:
lelivering his speech in the usual way, and
lirefted it to be read by his secretary.
4tter it was read, the governor made the
iollowing apology : " I beg pardon of the
Hon. Legislature, and I rely on your can
jor, gentlemen, to forgive this method of
iddreffing you : I feel the feeds of mor
ality growing fact within me ; but I think
1 have in this cafe done no more than mj
iluty, as the servant of the people : I ne
ver did, and I never will deceive them,
while I have life and strength to ast in
their service."
Four citizens of the United States, bj
the names ot Nutting, Batterman, Morgan,
and Shaw, have been taken from 011 boarc
a French privateer, arrived at Boflon fron
a cruise, and confined in jail ; and "are tc
Cake their trial at the niixc circuit court te
be held at Boflon, the 12th of October,
" for aiding and afiilting in manning oul
vefTels, and piratically and felonioufly cap
turing the velicls of nations with whom
the United States are at peace.''
The Governor of New-Jersey has ap
pointed Tuesday the firfl of Oflober, to bt
observed as a day of fafting, humiliation,
and prayer, "to implore Almighty God tc
relieve the citizens of Philadelphia from
their present diltrefs, and to avert the like
calamity from the citizens of that state."
Extract of a letter from a gentleman ir
Columbia county (Georgia) to his friend
in this city, dated July 27, 1793.
"We have been diflurbed by the Indi
ans this summer. They,have killed about
twenty people—Six hundred volunteers
offered to go to the Hint River Towns,
and accordingly marched to the Ocmulgee'
but under t!,e command "bf some very urt.
foldrer-like officers, 'Alio disagreed among
themselves about forcing ihe fatigued fol
d/ers into the river. Large parties of the
loldiers, in consequence of this diflention
among their officers, returned home, under
M Clufkie and others who had 110 coni
tnand, though more fit than those who
had, whii.li lett their generals under the
"agreeable" neceflity of returning home
also. after running the date and individual*
to conliderable expence and trouble."
The ship Manchester. capt. Clay, lately
arrived here from Liverpool, made her
pall'ige out from this port in 21 diys. On
her I eturii, oil the ic.li of September, her
1 eckoning w as 68 and one half degrees of
longitude. Tie fame day she spoke a
ichooner.out twodaVs from New-London,
the captain of which said Jie was in long*
69 —lat. 39. The officers of the Manches
ter giving too implicit a credit to this ac
count, the ccfifetjuence was,that they flood
boldly 011 for the Delaware, at the rate of
9 knots art hour, till in the night they
"nick upon the beach of New-Jersey. She
being a ltrong., new ship, the damage done
her i 6 (aid to be trifling* "7 he ship, when
flie fpol<e the New-Londoner, was fix
degrees ahead ofher reckoning.
Complaints appear in the New York pa
pers, that notu ithftanding the night watch
es, and rig d injunctions from the magis
trates. yet boats with paflengers, fufpe&fd
tobeiroin Philadelphia, aie detecled eve
ry night, 111 attempting to land. Others put
their paflengers a (here 011 the beach of
LongHlanti. or far up the North river,
who afterwards come into the city 011
loot. Proposals have been ifi'ued for cal
ling out the militia to guard the fliores ef
fectually, and apprehend all fufpe&ed per
sons.
It may not be ainifis to infepfn rhofe un
acquainted with the fact, that when the
Great P'agut raged in London in 1665 iit
which 68,0c0 perfmis wer* carried off) ic
was found that the street wher-? the tobac
conilts lived was exempted from the gene
ral calamity, none living in it being infect
ed with the difordcr. Ir might not be a
miss in this time of calamity, to f>mn 'o
bacco in the rooms where the Infef ed die;
and if burnt in the streets, partitiiiaiij ■ .j.
narrow confined alleys, it might be a means
of purifying the ail .& preventii g the fpi ead
ing ef the infection. The fa£t is, that the
contagion has now by means of a long,
course of sultry weather become so cencen
traud in the city, that nothing but wet
weather,froft. or some lubflitute turthele
(such as the smoke of tobacco , can , of. bly
diilipate ir.
Extra, t of a letter from Providence (R. I. )
September 14.
" A few days past a waggon, wiih be
tween 50 and fco,ooo dollar; in Ipecie, was
unloaded at the bank in this town, and the
money depolked in the vaults*—the proper
ty of Meflrs.Brown and Francis,merchants,
and part of the proceeds of the ship presi
dent Washington, and hrr cargo, fold at
Calcutta in 1792.—This sum being more
specie than they have ever shipped to the
Indies, although for fix years past consider
ably engaged in that trade, it is expetfed
will operate on the ininds of thinking peo
ple to'do away .1 prejudice again It the
trade, and convince them, that it is stir
duty to encourage it, as being much more
advantageous than for us to continue the
Retailers of India goods for European mer
chants."
An Englifli paper, in relating a skirmish
between some French and Prullian troops,
remarks, that •' the king of I'ruflia had a
very narrow escape : a ball-fell near him,
and frightened his horse so much that he
was near falling on him." Every reader
mud smile with contempt, when he reads
of & royal efcapef'rom such a trilling dan
ger. -Hidory lurnifbes us with iimilar re
cords. At the battle of Fontenoy, Louis
the 15th is celebrated for his wonderful
bravery, who from the steeple of a church,
beheld the conflict; and such was his ar
dour, that he left his fqug hoie, mounted
his horse, and rode to " where some balls
fell near him !" Enough and ei.ojigh too
has been faid|about the eji/tpe which George,
the Lord's anointed in Britain, had from
an old woman with a blunt cafe-knife.
In short, if only a trmfketoe bites some roy
al nose, all Europe must resound with it.
Letters from Denmark assert that the
government perfifls in remaining neutral in,
the present war againlt France. DamlU
fliips and property continue to be infuretl
at Copenhagen againlt all risks, at-the ufiial
peace premium. It was feared there that
the spirit 01-the American treaty with
France would not admit of the neutrality
of the United States, notwithflauding the
Prefidenl's proclamation.
On the 13th of Augud an express arrived
at the capital of Georgia, with a talk from
the head men of the Upper and Lower
Creeks. The talk is dated Cuflitah, July
2 tit, an extrad of which is as follows:
" We the headmen of the Creek nation, with
to inform the beads of Georgia, that if
they fti 11 have a with to fettle matters wth
thered people, we hope they jviil, on feeing
this, immediately fend off word to governor
Blount to reflrain his people, till his excel
lency general Walhuio ton's pleasure «
known."J?y accdunts from BufliiHill hospital,
near this city,we learn that many of the lick
there are recovering, and a conliderable
number have been discharged, perfeflly
cured. A comfortable place is fitted up t>>
accommodate the convalescents, and from
the success that has attended the efforts
for the relief of the sick, a hope may be in
dulged that many more will experience be
nefits from the institution. The children
at the orphan house are healthy, and well
provided for, except in the article of cloath
tng, contributions of which are requefled.
hy the committee, from all charitable per
f ns, ns well for the orphans as for the de
finite lick at the hospital.
The present war (fays a London paper)
is said so colt 1,500!. fleiling pfer hour,
which is 36,020!. per day, making thirteen
million one hundred forty thousand pound
per annum. If it continues for only one
year, it entails on the people £or father
Ihould notthis paragraphilt have said—the
(laves who are fighting to eternize defpu
tifm, to rivet (lavery, and to link the refl
of mankind into the fame chain] for ev&r,
taxes to the amount of 600.c001, a vear.—
[Jul! one million New York currency.]
[Fresh intelligence from French Hifpani
ola, by the schooner Regulator, Captain
White,arrived at Norfolk. (Capt. White
■was taken on his passage and carried intn
Jamaica, but restored after 48 bout's de
tention. )]
On the 17tU Anguft (two days before
Capt. White left Aux-Cayes) the mulattc
general, Rigatid, was proclaimed comman
der in chief of the foilth part of Hifpaniola
by the authority of the commillaries, San
thonax and Polverel.
Capt. White saw the Penelope frigat,
of 36 guns, Capt. Rawley, and a Philadel
phia ihip, on their way up to Jeremie, wit!
a large body of French emigrants fron
Jamaica, commanded by a Monf. LepiUO
to aflift those unfortunate people v.bo were
holding out against the Comrhifl'aries ai
that place.
The mulatto General Rigand. in Concer;
■with the commillaries, had palfed an ed£l
that any ilave, on entering In the army
shall receive their freedom, provided the;
will go in the body of troops they were
forming to attack Jeremie, and which were
to amount to 4000.
That since the affair of the ißtll of Jul)
(concerted by the mnlattoes for the extir
pation of the remainder of the unfortunate
whites of Paroiffes Aux-Cayes, and Tor
beck) the muiattoes have iinprifoned fuel
of the whites as escaped the-maffacre of the
above date; and tired with daughter, the\
agreed to liberate them on condition the;
immediately departed for the continent ol
America; On the 7th of Aujuft the mu
latto generals, Rigand, and Turreail, the
mulatto commandant at Aux-Cayes, ar
retted all the military officers, and conduc
ed them prisoners to Fort St. Louis; the)
armed the negro (laves again!! their mailers
and committed the mod unheard of cruel
ties on the whites. This was done with the
approbation and countenance of the com
missaries.
Capt. White Informs, that a gun
{hip and a frigate were to leave the convoy
of merchantman in a certain latitude, and
proceed to New-Providence, to regulate
the hnnefl conduct of the virtuous fubjctt
of that place
Lalt night arrriVed here the fchoonei
Dolly, Capt. Cowan, from St. Croix, v hicl
be left the ift of September. He confirm:
the accounts of the hurricane in the Weft-
Indies, and fays, it is the word that ha:
been experienced these many years; almofl
pvery house has been ejedroyed both in St
J (hn's and St. Thomas's ; and the numbei
of vessels loft is immense.
Extract of a letter from New-York,
Sept. 26.
The painful accounts which We daih
receive of the melancholy and diftreflec
ftite of yonr city, deeply afflicts the peoplt
of New-York. It is illiberal for some a
m >ng you to suppose that the rigid precau
tions we have taken to prevent the conta
gion reaching this city, proceeds from av
unfriendly disposition to our brethren of
Philadelphia in distress. Confident with
our own immediate fafety, we would will
ingly render every service in our power
towards allaying the distresses of which we
have daily such melancholy accounts : but
as our fufferingthe infection to be intro
duced into N. York, would answer no
pofiible good purpose to the people of Phi
ladelphia, we console ourselves with the
consideration that the generous and candid
public of that city, placing us in their situ
ation, in a similar dispensation of Provi
dence, will fullv approbate our condu£l
and precautions."
The fliip Atlantic, capt. S\"ai:is, is ar
rived here since otir last, from Liverpool,
which place file left the 17th of Auguft
liy this vessel, London accounts of Augufl
6th,mention the furrendei of Valenciemies,
to the combined forces.—Other particular;
by this arrival in our next.
[frem a late Jimaica Paper.J
In a country like this, where the inhabi
tants are so much exposed to disorders that
have a putrid tendency, v the knowledge of
nntifeptics, particularly the mofl powerful,
i. tow desirable not to be fought with ar-
flour, and coUimunicntecl with pleasure.
Tlie putrid lore throat has made such rava
ges, and feerns to have hitherto so effectu
ally baffled the skill of oiir medical <jentle
nicii, that we fliall certainly stand excuted
in taking notice of an article which has not,
we believe, obtained in the practice ot this
ifl.md.
Infome foreign chemical annals, pub
lifiled either at Paris or Ainfterdani, is an
Ellay on " Nitre ot Silver," the properties
ut which are thc-te mentioned," Tlie Nitre
i)f fiiver is the mod powerful antiseptic in
nature. It is to be ditfolved in ijoo times
its quantity of water : it prevents the pll
iretaction of riieat. If meat be digeUed
ora fortnight in a stronger solution of
his fait, and then be expoled to a heat in
tlich it would otherwise readily putrify,
t Will dry gradually without diffuling the
eatt bad fnieil. It grows hard veryfpeedi
y( and is not attacked by worms."
"If river water contains iiooo times,its
weightof this metallic fait, it will remain
frelh not only when fejipofccl to the heat of
ire, but in the heat of the fun. . The water
so impregnated may be given for common
drink in health, or the scurvy. The ill
smell anil bad appearance of old fores are
speedily removed by a solution of this fait
in eleven thouland times its weight of wa
ter. In malignant putrid fore throats it
makes moll excellent gargarifin ; and in
apthous fores ef the mouth from mercury.
Extrafi of a letter from Pitl/burg (Sept. 21)
" We hear, that in Philadelphia a cer
tain description ofperfons have been roy
alizing themselves by flow but sure de
crees, under the auspices of the federal
government; that the arillocrats, or Well
born, were like wife to meet loon with the
dijtiniiions they so well deserve, and that
the insolence of the rabble (formed to obey)
was speedily to receive a severe check.
We lince conjecture that the revolution ol
France has thrown infurrhountable obsta
cles in the Way of this aspiring class. They
every day (it is said) have frefli diffifciilties
to encounter; and a spirit Of equaftty and
repiiblicanifm is awaking from one end oi
tHe Union to the other. We have noticed
that the efforts of aristocracy are violentl)
directed againfl the Democratic Society
Tliis cannot be wondered at, when it is re
colletted t!»at the obje£t of all such socie
ties is to deftrov aristocratic distinction!
among men, and promote that benevolenl
species of equality, which whillt it humble:
the pride of the wealthy, will better the
condition of the great majority of man
kind."
Extrafi of b letter from Albany, dated
16tk September.
" There are several noted paper jobbers
in this quarter, who, for the fake of pre
fei-ving the quiet enjoyment of ;heir darling
pelf, acquired through the beneficent ef
fe£Ys of the fund'ng J y/iem, care not how
much this country degrades lierfelfin the
tyes of mankind. They are sworn ene
mies to all free discussion, and you may
therefore be sure that your paper conies in
for nofmall lharc of their malignant abuse.
It is grating to a true American, to fee
this di'fcrip'.ion of people (heltering them
selves behind the popularity of the Preli
der.t. never were his friends, till
an idea of interest apparently made then
such ; and if the fubftanct of interest fhoulc
fail, they will be the firft to declare them
selves his enemies. Peace ! Peace 1 is all
their cry ; when, in reality, "there isn<.
peace." The Britilh will not allow us tc
be neutral at sea ; the benefits of the car
rying trade of this country are too impor
tant an object for them, to futfer us to en
joy it in quiet. In alliance with the Spa
niards, neither do tliey vfrilh us to fee peace
on our frontiers. An opinion is fact gain
ing ground, that a bargain has been made
between the Spaniards and Britilh. to pre
vent the United States forever from ex
tending their territory beyond the Ohio anc
the Miffifippi. For thi« purpose theconfede
rate Indians have been advijed, at and be
fore the late treaty, to infitt upon the Ohic
as the boundary, and even as far eaftware
as the Alleghany. I lately received alet
terfroma friend in London, of character
and information ; who affiires Big that no
thing is more dreaded through Europe,
than the complete and final eftablifhmeni
of republican government in America, or,
at present, an offenfive alliance withFranfce.
The defpnts apprehend, that it will even
tually detlroy the royal, (alias, tyrannical]
domination intended to be perpetuated
through Europe, in its titmofi severity,
provided the exertions of France fail ; and
therefore r.o effort will be wanting on
their part, so to temper (if in their power)
the administration of this country, as to
uifwer their Vile, their nefarious pur
poses."
Extrafl from a Virginia paper, Sept. 18.
" Although the maintenance of peace
ought to be a matter of the firft conse
quence with every true American, yet in
juftifying ourfirifl neutrality, let us not
suppose, that u e could render France 110
service, by taking part with her in herpre
fent struggle. It is humiliating, even to
cov ardite, to fay, that a country extensive
and fertile as America, with perhaps four
hundred thoiifand fighting men, would be
110 acquifitiop to llie great caule of Liber
tyand Independence ; tlie cause indeed of
human nature. Were we firmly and hear
tily engaged in their interell, and deter
mined to fee them, like ourselves, perfett
ly free, there is no doubt but it would give
fucli a (hock to the despotism combined
France, that in the prelimt, and
p: obable future state of that combination,
our weight in the Gallic scale would have
a powerful tendency to promote a genera]
and hdnourable peace. The Prelident's
proclamation, when it was firft ill'ued, wa:
generally considered here as an ordinar)
>ct dt" Itate, without merit or demerit. Ii
was cohfidered as a mere manifeftation ol
hisdefire tliat his fellow citizens mighl
perpetually enjoy the blessings of peace
and particularly under his own adminif
rration of the government. This it Wa:
natural to expect of him, as, perhaps, hi:
duty—bur, when we underttood that the
proclamation was to be considered as tht
balis upon which was founded the prose
cution against Singleterry and Henfield
not an individual but lamented its publi
cation.''
The appearance of things ambng us till
day or two part is highly encouraging. Ths
number of deaths lint e Thursday evening
bears small proportion to that of fevera
preceding days. The air, for these lat
24 S*ours, has undergone a considerable al
teration towards a rtate of refrefliing cool
ness ; which, with a brisk, vivifying gale a
N. W. may probably tend conliderably ti
abate the mortality (till in no small degrei
prevalent.
Hofion, Sept. 18. Lad Monday mornin;
failed from this port, the snip Catharine
captain Cotfin, bound to Havre de Grace.
M. Letombe being apall'enger in the a
bbve fliip, his excellency the governor wa
pleased to order a salute from the castle, ii
honour and refpeit to a gentleman, whof
conduct had endeared him to the citizen
it large.
Mrs. Swan, the lady of James Swan, Efq
(now 111 France) was alio paflenger in fan
Ihip.
Tuesday evening arrived in this port thi
fh'.p Neptune, taken forae time lince by thi
Marfeilies, loaded with bread and flour.
Yeflerday was launched from Mr. Clark'
(hip yard, at the north part of this town,;
beautiful fliip, belonging to J.leflVs. Join
and Richard Codman, merchants of thi
town. She went off about 10 o'clock, a
midit the acclamations of many hundrec
fpeftators.
On Monday, four male, and four femal
culprits, of various complexions, fat on thi
gallows, and received the discipline of the
port, for various thefts of which they wen
convicted, at the late term of the Supreme
court.
Oil Sunday arrived here, the fliip Georgi
ofßofton, Silas Daggett master, from Gi
braltar, who informs, that it was reportec
at Gibraltar, that it was the intention o
the fleets, when combined, to have goni
again Toulon ; but that the mod thinkin;
people suppose the Englifli will have mori
prudence than to attempt it.
panbury, Sept. 23. A gentleman in thi
town has this year produced from oni
potatoe7sin number, which weighed 2 :
pounds—The feed was of the kind callet
Rnglith whites* and was planted whole—
His nearest neighbour to whom he gave :
larger potatoe than that which he.planted
cut his feed in four parts and planted it ii
equal foil with the former, but his increafi
was 5 pounds less than his who planted th<
potatoe whole.
Information to the Merchants of the Unilei
Stales.
The rebellion that has broke out in tw<
or three of the French departments, ant
the neceility that the government fhoult
keep up a cotifiderable interior force,with
uut weakening the fevcral armies that forn
the defence of the frontiers, has operatec
in some small degree to the discourage
ment of agriculture in the republic. Ci
tizen Genet is authorized to notify tilt
American merchants, that they will find s
ready and profitable market for every ar
ticle of provilion, particularly flour, rice
rait beef, pork, &c. as well as for pitch, tai
find other articles neceflary for the marine,
ivhich they (hall fend to the ports of Bay
anne, Roc '' fort, Rochelle, Nantz, L'Ori
EMit, Brert, Havre, and Dunkirk. tie i:
further authorized to Inform them, thai
the French merchants in all the ports jus
mentioned, have taken care to supply theii
stores with every kind of French goods
suitable to the American market, in re
turn for the articles brought from the
United States.—Citizen Genet has likewise
received information, that the French
Hcets were matters of the Channel, and ol
the Gulph of Galco'ny ; that the French
vefl'els of war, having fuccefsfully engaged
in those seas the veflels belonging to ty
rants, ar.d entirely cleared the sea coasts ol
the Republic of them, had received order;
to take under their protection all American
veflels bound to France, they (hould fall in
with, in the fame manner as French veflels,
to give them every succour in their power,
and to convoy them to the ports above
mentioned. From this circuniftance, the
Americans may hope that the destination
of t heir vefl'els is fnfliciently feenre, not
withstanding the iufi lent declarations of
the British despot, who in attempting t»
impose his regulations upon their com
merce, isfcheming to rivet their former
(hackles upon them. The French will ex- N
ert themselves to supply the United States
with every necelfary article of consump
tion, and will use their utinolt united en- •
deavours gradually to encourage and efta
blifii a lalting commercial intercourse be
tween the two nations, that lhall tend, to
jo ; n both co-jntries in the ties of fraternal
affection. Such istliefincere wifli of France;
and in forming fucli connexions, the Ame
ricans will contribute to the defence of a.
caule, which is evidently their own, and
in support of which they so glorioully fig
tialized themselves Tome years ago.
Opifer per orb:m dicor\
Hippocrates, the celebrated Greek phy~
ician, who lived upwards of 2000 years
ago, has handed down to polterity the fol
lowing Aphorlfm, which Boerhaave recom
mends as containing the fnn> and substance
jf all preventative physic, viz. " Keep the
iead cool, the feet warm, and the body
open ; and you may bid defiance to every
ipecies of disease."
Anecdote. (A matter of Fa£t.)
A Clergyman riding along the highway
•vhich led from a noted tavern, overtook
1 man on horseback, who had treated him
elf so kindly with the good fluff that his
)ody was fubje£led to a constant vibration
rom fide to lide. For the lake of good
company he made exertions to keep hi»
lorfe alonglide of the clergyman's, to the
;reat hazard OT-lofing his feat in the fad
-le. "Friend," said the clergyman, "who
ever ybu b£, you seem very happy." I
lope," said the man, 1 (hall be happy ill
he next world. I know you very well,
hough you are not acquainted with me.
Voii are the very man who Converted me."
Very poflibly," laid the clergyman, " and
t looks like something of my bungling
ivork, which I lhall be obliged to do over
igain"
LET aristocrats f.iy how wounded they
feel,
Dn hearing Genet's democratic appeal—
3ut true sons of freedom their freaks lhalt
deride,
founded alone on monarchical pride.
> Tho' Jay, that great judge, and th efena
tor, King,
To join in their clamours, their evidence
bring ;
i'et freemen will fee how vain their attempt
ind treat it as freemen with sovereign
contempt.
Norfolk Papet\
MORAL REFLECTION:
[From a Connecticut Paper."]
' Nought can persuade our feet to run
The pure and pieus race ;
3ur steps the ways of wisdom fliun,
We turn our heels to grace.
To mount heaven's Hill we fliould hare
lilc'd,
But steed would not ascend,
The niof-e we fpurr'd, the more file kick'd 0
And oft rear'd up behind.
>0 lately in Miami's fields
Old St. Clair's war-worn horse
Could not, by two well worked heeli
Be prick'd from wonted course.
So wonder neither, for 'tis said,
(Whether 'tis true or not)
He took one /pur within his head,
The other he forgot!"
Rather illiberal: but, we tnufl " allow the.
"Pumpkins to sing a tittle,now is then in com
•Hon metre."]
To the Eleflors for the City and County of
Philadelphia.
pENTLEMEN,
f RETURN you my sincere thanks for
1 all former repeated favors, and solicit a
:ontipuance thereof at the ensuing Elec
ion for the Coroner's office, which will
ay an additional obligation on, and be
rratefully Acknowledged by your much
obliged friend and hvimble servant,
JOHN LEACOCK, Conner.
Sept. 25, »793-
EIGHT DOLLARS REWARD.
RAN AWAY on the 20th of June lafl, from
the fubferiber living in Caroline county, int
he Itate of Maryland, near Choptank Bridge, a
NEGRO BOY, named Jonathan, about
, ears of age—he is tree born, but a bound servant
jntil 21 jears of age—he is tolerably stout and
*rait built, has a yellow cast in his countenance,
:alketh wi;h his tongue against his teeth, has
large thick feet, his toes square to the ends—hi#
mother's name is Lidye, who now lives in JoneV
Neck in Delaware state, where the boy has form
ed some acquaintance since he run away. Any
pcrfon taking him up, must ast with the greatest:
caution, or he will give them the flip. Whoeve
takes up the said boy, and secures him so tha
the owner may have him again, lhall have th«
above reward, paid by
•WILLIAM JACKS6N-
Sept- 4, »79J.QUIXTILIAN to LYCIDAS.
WHILE little lads their books forfake,
Or sigh to meet the hour of play,
You, Lycidas, no leisure take.
But (till thro' learned pages dray—
With years so few, ah wiiy so grave,
Why every hour to books a (lave i
Hence, Lycidas, I pray, retire:
Go with your mates and take your play,
Not him I prize, or much admire
Who, curious, hangs on all I fay ;
*1 he lad that's wife before his time
Will be a coxcomb in his prime.
Slay not too close in wisdom's fliop—:
Till time a rip;r mind prepares
The hall, the marble, and the top
Are books that (hould divide your
cares; —
The boys that life's gay morn enjoy,
I love to fee them ait the boy.
] hate the pert, I hate the tjold,
Who proud of years, but half a (core,
With none, but men, would converse hold
And things beyond their reach explore ;
Like the fam'd Cretan, soaring high
To melt their waxen wings—and die !
Philad. Stpt 2J.
DIALOGUE between a Citizen of Phila
delphia, and a Jersey Farmer (ten mites
from town.)
Farmer. Ho !—who &re you, you yel
low-fever-looking-fellow ; and what buii-
Defa have you ont of your city i
Citizen. Sir, I do afiure you, upon my
word of honour, that there is not a foun
der man in New-Jersey than myfelf. I eat
my three meals a d -v, have not even had
a linger ach these iix months, and can
take an oath upon the holy evangelists,
that the dodtors have not had a nine-pence
from ate these seven years. Feel my pulse,
and convince yourfeif.
Farmer. Feel your pulse, Sir !—may I
die by the grip of an anodyne necklace, if
I would come within ten yards of you for
ten pounds. Why, fir, your breath ij
pestilence—your face is the very image
of d^ftruftion—your eyes are death's poop
laothorns—you are a moving mass of pu
tridity, corruption, plague, poison, and
putrefa&ion —Your pulse !—not I, faith
—nor do I believe you have any more
pulse than a man that was laid in his grave
thirty years ago. \¥iie citizen advance!
towards him.\ Avail! avail, fir 1 advance
not, I befeecb you, if you have any regard
to your foul's health—keep to leeward,
or, by the three prongs of my dung fork,
I will make ghost's meat of you ! —I will
inltantly finilh what the yellow fever has
begun 1
Citizen. The fun draws low ! a night's
lodging in your barn, or even in your
horse (table, would claim my eternal gra
titude. I feel weary with my long walk,
a nap of deep would be refrefhing, and
by peep of day I will be jogging.
Farmer. Your weariness, or rather
weakness, arises ftmply from the raging
fever that now burns like a fiery furnace
within you,—Sleep in my barn !—very
pretty indeed! — why, my very horses
would catch the yellow fever from you.
In such a horrid date of contagion are
you, that in one night the pestilential va
pours, and blue fo%s arising from your car
case, would infedt forty tons of hay. 1
pray you to walk on, and. leave me and
mine. You are upon the verge of another
world, and we wish no connexion with
you. Retire, I fay.
Citizen. Walking through ten miles of
heavy sand has, I allure you, given me
considerable of an appetite. Could I have
a bit of victuals for my money? The ta
verns are every where (hut againlt me—a
luncheon of cold beef, a (lice of ham, a bit
of bacon, or a chunk of bread—you might
lurely venture to reach one or more of
these articles to me on the point of a pitch
fork. t
Farmer. Beef for a man in your situa
tion !—You are, beyond all. doubt, raving
mad, and light-headed. If you were in
your right senses you would rather a(k for
tartar-emetic, jalaps, purges, collery mor
bus, hippecacahna, doses of Spani(h flies,
and cartloads of drugs, physics, and me
dicines of every denomination and defcrip.
tion. For God's fake leave me ; talking
with you is like talking with a ghost—
lioift your black flag, and away to your
Potter's field !
Citizen. I want no physic. I (hall now
depart from your borders and return home;
tut not without firft observing to you, that
the common duties of humanity between man
and man, should have as much weight wiih
a rational creature as the great duty offelf
prejervalton itfelf; and be equally obfervtd.
Cowards shrink from danger : the brave,
when necessary, meet it with fortitude :
and, trull mc, you will find, in at leall
ninety instances out of a hundred, that
cowards perilh through the very effects of
their fears, while the firm escape and en
joy a comfortable length of exiitence.—
Adieu.
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.
SEPTEMBER >793*
D. Uj Burom. ( Tber, I
Tuesday, 17. Cl 29. E 66 j N. 1 Cloudy.
3 39. 8<; 67 I N. I do.
iVedntJday, 18. 6 30. 3 44 I N. fair.
31 ! do.
Tburjday, 19. 6 30. 4' 45 1 fa
3 '30 •is' -o I S.W. do-
Friday, 20. 6 30. 3 54 j calm.'Hazry.
3 3". 15 69 !SE. , do-
Saturday, 21. 6 30. ol 39 j ahn.lCUuay.
3 2 9- Qj 78 I fair.
Sunday, 22. 6 30. ( 63 calm.U'.W/y.
3 3°- c; S3J [Fair.'
Mor.day, 2;. 6 30. ij 61 | cum. V,Uudy.
3 30. jj 81 j S.E. I do.
Extract si nm the Minutes of the Synod of
Philadelphia, met at York-town, 011 the
28th day of Augult, 1793, and continued
by adjournment.
THE Synod of Philadelphia, taking into
their molt Orions coiifideration the very
critical situation of the affairs of these Unit
ed States, at this eventful period ; the
great degree of insensibility in matters of
religion that has prevailed in all ranks of
men amonglt us, notwithstanding the many
great judgments and deliverances, which,
as a nation, we have heretofore experi
enced; the prevalence of infidelity, and
the negleit and opposition discovered by
many with regard to the inftirutions of
chriltianity, and the mediation of our Lord
and Saviour Jesus Chrifttaking also into
view, the alarming and increaling judg
ments of God that are abroad in the earth,
the convulsions that have taken place in
Europe, and the probability that our guilty
country may be involved in similar calami
ties ;—unanimoufly agreed, in appointing
Thursday, the 24th day of October next,
to be obferveo as a day of farting and pray,
er, by all the churches under their care.
The Synod molt earncllly exhort and en
join upon pcrfons of all ranks in our com
munion, to lay aside 011 that day their usual
business, and unite in humble and earnest
Applications to the throne of grace, thro'
our divine Mediator, that God would im
press the minds of all with such a sense
of his Majesty, as the great Governor in
the affairs of men and nations, and of their
obligations to him as their beneficent Pre
server and Guardian, as shall lead them to
glorify HIM in whose hand their breath is,
and whose are all their ways ; that he would
inspire our rulers and magiltrates of all
ranks with a (acred and pointed regard to
his providence and approbation, and such
wisdom to discern, and such refolntion to
pursue, the measures that conduce to the
public 'inter*ft at this critical period, as
may, under the favour of heaven, iVcure
to thefft dates the continuance of the bleiT
ings 'they enjoy that he would prosper
the labours of the hulbandman ; an eft the
progress of irreligion and immorality ;
grant a gracious effufion of the Divine
Spirit's influences; restore peace to our
frontiers; protest our commerce; disap
point all who may have deligns unfavoura
ble to the tranquillity and prosperity of
these states ; and make us a wife, a pious,
aed a happy people.
Publilhed by order of the Synod,
Nai haniel Irwin, Moderator.
3 C - Samuel Waugh, Synod Clerk.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold by Thomas Dobson, Wil ■
liam Young, Robert Campbell,
Melfrs. Rice and Co. and JohM M'
Culloch, No. 1, North Third-street,
A N EXAMINATION of the late pro
ceedings in Congress rr£befting the
official conduct of the Secretary of the
Treasury; with Observations, &c. 011 the
application of loans from Holland, negoci
ared under the acts of the 4th and 12111 of
Augult 1790. —The price of the above
pamphlet is three sixteenths of a dollar, or
is 4d. 1-2. April 24. 2aw tf
*** The author requests his readers to
corredt the following ERRATA in the
pamphlet above mentioned Pa"e 5.
hne 11 —2d. paragraph, ior Coalition°vead
Colli flu n. ——Page 25. line 11—2d.parag.
inltead of Bayk directors read "Stock
holders."
A FEW COPIESOF THE
TRANSACTIONS
Of the Society inflituted in the State of
New-York, for the promotion of
AGRICULTURE, ARTS, and MANU
FACTURES,
May be had at this Office.
[Price half udollAr.J
To be Sold or Let,
(°f tbis immediate pojjifjun given.)
THA 1 handsome, well-built three fiery new
h»(ife, situate on. the east fide of south
Fourth ltreet, neaV the Indian Queen, Philadel
phia. This situation is valuable, teing in a
Central part of the city, and convenient to the
banks and public offices. The house is 25 feet
in front, and, with its offices, extends nearly 10s
feet backwards. It has the privilege of an alley
41 feet wide* The offices are three stories high,
and, together with the house, are built of brick :
thelecontain five apartments, be/ides a wash house,
and four of them have fire places. In the dwell
ing house itlelf, there are nine rooms and eight
fire places ; fix of the rooms are spacious, and all
fa/hionably fini/hed. The garrets are ceileo : the
ilair-cale is elegant. 1 here is a good cellar under
the whole, and in the yard a pump.
And to be Sold,
230 Acres ofunimproved land,lß milecjfrom the
thriving town 0/ Harrilborg, Pennsylvania; This
tract lies in a valley, and is said to be vetv good
farming land. There are one or more mills near
the premises. The river Juniata is about five
miles distant ; whence it is boatable into the Suf
quehanna, and thence to Harrilburg. Alio,
A defnable retreat, or farm, in Newtown, the
county town of Ducks, Pennsylvania ; contain
ing nearly j5 acres of lana, naturally very rich,
and now highly improved. It is surrounded on all
(ides by public streets or roads j and may, with
pre lent advantage, be converted into town lots
that would prove of growing importance. Then
is a commodious brick house upon the premises,
two stories in height, having four rooms on a
floor, a spacious entry or paflage throughout, and
a cellar extending under the whole house. It U
well accommodated with out houses." About three
acrcs are occupied by an orchard of the best graft
ed Newtown pippins.- distant from Philadelphia
2.5 mile§ j from Trenton 9 5 from Bristol 11 j and
is within five milts of the river Delaware. The
situation is extremely healthy; the profpeds are
charmingly pidurefque, and the neighbourhood
affords a genteel society.
Bejides the abonje y
livo corner lets in the town, of one acre each,
are u/ie<eu for sale, together with about 16 acres
of excellent land, half a mile from the town
under the best culture and improvement. Twc'
or three of these acres are in timber.
Likevjife tt be Sold.
Anef acrcs, in the count)
ol C hester, 39 miles from Philadelphia : 100 atic
of which are of the richest bottom. The whole
of this land elljoys a kind, firing and fertile foil
II well watered, and admirably adapted to thi
raising of grain and all kinds of Itock ; at prefen
there are nearly 30 acres of made-.r.eadow, ant
2C3 or 30 more of watered meadow mav be maci
at pleasure : about 200 are luxuriantly cove-ec
With a variety of valuable timber. Upon th<
prem.fes, there are a farm house, barn, &c. ;
never-failing dream of good water, and a mof
produ&ive apple-orchard covering about fix acres .
the truitof a good and lading ijualiry : tile pur
clnfer may be accommodated with all or any pari
of the dock or farming utensils upon the place,
1 he pofttion of this farm is important, lying or
both tides of the main road, mid bounded south.
erly by the road to Philadelphia, through Down
mg-town ; —whince it is distant 11 or 13 miles
On the noith it isbounded by the road to Waruid
Furnace, situate hut a few miles distant. At thi
point, the premises enjoy a capital Hand both so:
a (lore and tavern, and also an eligible fituatioi
for a village, which would here have fomi
commanding advantages, and might be an obje6
to any gentlemen wiiliing to found an extcnfivi
and profitable settlement. On the one fide, i
has a dircft communication with Downing'
town j and wish the rich and populous fettleraen
ot Cooeftogo valley on the other, both lying with
in a ihort ride of the place. There is already ,
market here for produce at the Philadelphia price:
—the neighbouring "non-works creating a conftani
demand. Plenty of good limeftonemay be ha<
within 5 miles of the premises, and a t.
make use of it will be conveyed by the pioprie.
tor if required. In Ihort this farm deserves thi
attention of any person or persons inclined
avail themselves of advantages such as those i
po/Tefles.
i he title to the several premises are indffpnta
ble j and the proprietor will warrant to defers
iliem. The terms of sale, for all 01 any of th'
ands, will be made accommodating to the purcha
fers. For farther particulars, apply to the sub
fcriber, at No. 6, south Fourth-street, or at hi
store, the corner of Market and Third-streets
Philadelphia.
ROBERT SMOCK.
A "g■ '»■ ia. w. t. f.
TO THE PUBLIC.
an attachment at the suit of Sam
uel Xmlay and Nathaniel Imlay, executor;
jf the testament and last will of Peter Imlay, de
:ealed, has illued out of the Supreme Court ol
I udicature of the state of New. Jersey, against the
ands of Garret Voorheis, late of the county 01
Middlesex, and state afcrefaid, returnable to the
irlt Tucfday in September, ftventeen hundrer
jnd ninety-two Notice is hereby given to th;
f-id Gariet Voorheis, that unless he appear jm
Sle special bail to the said aflion, judgmeni
.vill be entered against him, by default, and the
lands so attached fold for the fatisfaflion of such
if his creditors as shall appear to be justly entitlec
to any demand thereon, and fliall apply for that
purpofft, according to the form of the statute ir.
such cafe made and provided.
By order of the Court,
April 17. iaw. iy HOWELL, Clk.
WANTED,
IN TWO OR THREE MONTHS
AN APPRENTICE '
REGULAR \APOTHECARY,\
A Youth not iefs than fifteen or lixfeer
years of age, svith a ftjitable education, arm
good moral chat-after. ~For further parti
culars enquire of the Editar. anwtf
PRICE CURRENT.
Dollars. Centi-s
(100 Cents make i dollar.)
AhES, pot per ton nod
pearl ditto 134 d t» i/;c<!
Bacon, flitches per lb Sto 9c
(boulders do 7s
)seef, Boston per barrel 8d
Country do 7 d
Beer, American in bottles
including bottles per doz. id 74c
ditto per barrel ' cd
Bees wax per lb 2 6c 28c
Brandy, Coniac per gal 90c 110 c
common do 80c to 85c
Butter in kegs per lb 12c 13c
Cheese, Country per lb 8c 13®
— Englifk " , 9C
Chocolate ,8c 2CC
Coal per bufliel 20 c 22c
Codfifh per cut 3d s> c
Coffee per lb , 4C ,8c
Copperas per ewt id 67c
Cordage, American per cwt 7d 67c 9d
Cotton per lb 26c 40c
Flax per lb uc 12c
Flaxfeed perbufli. 90c to 1 dol.
Flour fiiperfine per barrel sd. 75c
common jci. j oc
Eur-middlings, best 4d. 50
Meal Indian per bbl. 2d 52c
Rye, do 2( j 40c
Gin, Holland per cafe 4 d 33c
— per gallon 80c 90c
Ginseng 20c 24 c
Gunpowder, Fine glazed per qr e 4 d 3c
Grain, Barley per bulhel id
Bell (helled per bushel 2d 67c
Buckwheat per bulhel 4 oc
Indian corn 5 Jt to 60c
ferfey, do 6oc
Oats gjc
Kye 60c
W heat 107 c to 127
Hams per lb 9c to lic
Hemp, imported per ton; r2cd r 4 6d 67c
— American per lb 4C JC
Hides, raw per lb 9c tone
Hops a g c
Honey per gall. 6oc
Indigo, Carolina per lb id idaoc
French id 20c id6-c
Iron, Bar per ton g 4 ,l
Callings per cwt 3d 50c
Nail-rods per tun j 33*
£ !g *4*l
r klieet 173 d 33c
frons, fad per ton 1 Vul 3 ;c
Lard hogs per lb 9 c Jot
Leather, foal per lb i- c 2 cc
Myr'le wax. per lb ' I2C .
Molalles per gallon 60c
Mustard, flour, jll bot. per doz. id 20c
—second quality, per doz. gjc
Nails, 8d lod i2d and 2®d per lb. 10c
Oil, Linseed per gallon f6c
Olive }j 7C
P er «fe id s cc
Pepper per lb 3 §c
Pimento lqc
Pitch per bbl ,d 73c
Porter per cask 5 d 33c
London per doz id 60c
Amer. bot. inclu. id 80c
Pork. Burlington, per bbl ir>d s oc
Lower county , 4C | JOC
——Carolina ,
Rice per cwt
Rum, Antigna pergal ?d
Barbadoes 8- c
Country, N. E. 62c
Jamaica ,d ,6 C
Saltpetre per cwt i 4 d 33c
Salt, Allum, per bu(h 33c
Cadiz 2jC
Lisbon 2 y C
Liverpool
Snakcroot per lb 2 oc 42c
Snuff, per doz. bot. 4 d 5 d 60c
P er,b 33c 8 5 c
Soap, Brown per lb 6 C
White 8c
Starch per lb 7C
Sugar, Havannab, white, per 11» 17c 18c
Brown , oc 12c
Muscovado per cwt J3di s d
Lumpperlb olc
Loaf, lingle refined, 22 c
double ditto i, c
Tallow, refined, per lb
Tar, New-Jersey 24 gal.per bbl id
Carolina, 32 gal ,d s oc
Tea, Hyson per lb 93c id 28c
Souchong JOC 93c
bohea 1 *
Tobacco, James River, belt 4 d 33c
I nferior 3, 1 33c
9 1(l 4d 67c
Rappahannock 3d">^c
Coloured Maryland 5 d 33c°8d
Dark 2d 40c
Long-leaf 2( | oc
Mallei n-fhore sd 2d
Carolina, new 2d 7c 3d
. 3<! 3jc
Turpentme per bbl a d 33c
Wine, Madeira, p. p. ,7< < | 3 26 d
Lisbon i*odiß6d
Teneriife per gal 6jc
Sherry y OC t 0 , c ] 2CC
' *' — * "" t J "
PRINTED BY
C H I L D S and S WAIN E.
AT THSJK "FFICE NOi 209, J»ICH-STK*IT,
rirTH-s/kiiT,
? H I L A D rt P MIA.