[Numb. 25 of Vol. ll.] WEDNESDAY, January 23, 1793
In conjequence of a letter received by the
Editor from a ful/fcriher in Maryland
requeuing a publication of the cohflitu
tion and rules of t'le " Young Ladies' A
caiemy of Pliildie Iphia." he applied to
the Principal & Officers of the jai I In-
Jlitution, who furnifhed him with the AH
nf Incorporation & Bye Laws agreed up
on by the Trujltts, 'which are as follow,
viz.
Thf CommSnwealt'i of Pennfvlvania.
To ALL PEOPLE TO WHOM THESE
PRESENTS SHALL COME,
greeting :
77" NOW ys, that in pursuance of an ast
of.the'genera! aflembly of the comnapn
\veilth of Pennsylvania, entitled, ' An ait
*to confer o r certain aflooiations of this
commonwealth, ttis powers and innnuni
tiesof corporatioasurbodiespolitic inlaw.
The Rev. Dr. James Sproat,
Rev. Dr. Samuel M'Gaw,
Rev. Dr. Robert Blackwell,
Rev. Dr. Henry Helmuth,
The Rev. Frederick Schmidt,
The Rev. Dr. Alhbel Green,
The Rev. John Meder,
The Rev.John Herman Winkhoufe,
Mr. Pelatiah Webster,
i Christopher Kucher, Esq.
Gewp;e Meade, Esq.
Dr. Benjamin Say,
Dr. William W. Smith, and,
Mr. John Ely, trustees of the Acade
my for the education of female pupils, in
the city of Philadelphia ; now under the
fuperintendance of Mr. John Poor, A. M.
Principal or head teacher of Paid academy,
nrs, to said aft,and in pursuance
thereof, incorporated and made a body
corporate and politic in law ; to have per
petual duration by the name and stile ol
'The Trustees of the young ladies 1 acade
my of Philadelphi a,' on the articles and
conditions following :
Article I. The corporation by .the
stile and title aforefaid, lb all, for
ever hereafter, b - persons able and capa
ble in law, to take and receive, hold and
enjoy all filch privileges, rights powers,
and franchifes as other corporations ol
like kind in this commonwealth usually
enjoy.
Article 11. The corporation aforefaid,
ftiall have power to make and use a com
mon seal, and change the fame at their
pleasure, and by the name aforefaid, (hall
be able to appear, sue and be sued, plead
and be impleaded ip all courts of law,
causes and things, and to obtain and fur
tain all legal judgments, executions, a
wards and decrees; both intermediate
and final, incident to the fame. Also,
to hold, purchase and fell all person
al mixed estates and property, which
may be conveyed to them either by gift,
grant or deviie, or in any other way, not
exceeding the yearly value or income ol
five hundred pounds currency of Penn
sylvania.
Article 111. The corporation aforefaid.
fliallhave power to choose and appoint al.
such officers, and make & use all foch bye
laws, as (hall be neceflary to promote the
well being and good order of the instituti
on, and not inconsistent with the laws o'
the United States or this commonwealth.
And that all donations of estate-real, per
sonal and mixed, made to the said corpo
ration by grant, or devise, or in any othei
way, (hall be improved, used and confined,
to and for the purposes and limitation:
exprelfed and implied in the said donati
ons, and for no other use.
Ai tide IV. The said academy and al
the estate, issues, and profits of it, ihall b:
confined and used for.the education ol
female pupils, exclulive of all male pu
pils, cxcepc such as are under seven
years of age, in such manner as any legal
board of trustees for the time being lhall
direst.
Article V. The board of trustees lhall
have power to exclude an officer, or an)
other member from their board, for mif
demeaaor or negligence ; and also lhal:
have power to supply any vacancy of pre
sident, vice prelident, fccretary or trustees,
appoint any other officer by vote of the
majority of the members present, and ir
the fame manner (hall appoint, ordain, and
define, any and every other lawful buli
nefs, matter or thing which they may deem
r.ecefpiry and salutary to their society,
provided that no board confiding of lef:
than eight members, lhall exclude a mem
ber ; appoint or exclude the prelident,
vice plefident, secretary, the principal or
head teacher of the academy; nor lhall a
board of less than five have power to tranf
a£t any other bulinefs except adjourning ;
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhcd. Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
and all votes (hall be taken by ballot, if
demanded by any two members present.
Article VI. Any board of trustees (hall
have power and may appoint examiilati -
o.is a:id commencements of the pupils, and
grant premiums and diplomas or certifi
cates as testimonials of merit and great
proficiency in improvement in the scholastic
exercises of tile academy, to such pupils,
Mvho by extraordinary efforts of geniu;
and diligence, (hall appear to them to be
entitled to such rewards, and diftinguiih
in? honours of the leminary.
Article VII. Tlie following gentlemer
are appointed officers, of the trustees :
Rev. Dr. Spi'oat, PreCklent,
Rev. Dr. SamuelMagaw, V.Prefiden
Dr. Benjamin Say, Secretiry.
Mr. John Pook • M.f rinripal offaid A
cademv for the timbeiig; fcthe faidPoor
in conl'Jeratio i of liis g'"eat exertions anc
expense in ereiHig, forming and impro
vmgfiicl academy, from its infancy, rp tc
its present naudlhing fitnation, (hall b<
continued Principal, and fhal! not be dis
placed by a ly board of trustees, unless so!
crime, misdemeanor or disability, eithei
natural or civil, and fh'.ll always be one o!
the trustee; during the time that he (hal
continue Princ'paT
Article VIII. The exifthig trustees fhal
never be more than sixteen, nor less thai
eight ; but if ever the number (hall be re
j duce l to less than eight, the existing trus
tees (hall proceed to 111 no the vacancy by
new appointmen s ; for this purpose i
majority of any board prelcnt, on due no
tice given, (hall have power to make faici
new appointments, though their numbei
ihould be less than five.
Artiele IX. All meetings of the trustee.
(hall be summoned by the president, vice
president, secretary or principal, by notics
in writing to all the members, at lea.il
threi; days previous to tt«? so?etsr.».
Article X. If any twelve fubferibers to
the funds of this academy (hall (fgn anc
present a petition to the president or prin
cipal for a new appointment of trnftees, ir
the election of whom, they and other sub
scribers wiilito be admitted to vote in con
junction with the trustees in being, fuel
election (hall be appointed, with time ant
place notified in some of the public news
papers, at lea ft seven days before the daj
of election : and the men appointed by fait
ele£tion, (hall be the legal thiftees, exclu
sive of all others ; provided that no mar
(hall be deemed a fubferiber to such fu nd
til! his fubfeription (hall be accepted bj
the trustees, and entered in the propel
books of the Academy.
i James Sproat,
Samuel M'Gaw,
Juftu<H.C Helmuth,
Frederick Schmidt,
Aftibell Green,
Robert Blackwell,
John Medcr,
John H. Winkhoufe,
Pelatiah Webster,
George Meade,
•Win. W.Smith,
Christopher Kucher,
John Ely.
I HAVE perused and examined the pre
:eding instrument, and hereby certify, thai
[ am of opinion, that the objects, articles,
md conditions therein set forth and con
fined, are lawful.
JARED INGERSOLL.
Attorney General.
WK the justices of tlje commonwealth
;>f Penulylvania, hereby certify that at ;
"uprerne court held at Philadelphia for the
"aid commonwealth on the ninth day oi
January, in the year of our Lord one thou
sand seven hundred and ninety-two, an a£l
>r instrument of incorporation of the trus
tees of the academy for the education ol
female pupils in the city of Philadelphia,
under the fuperintendance of Mr. Johr
Poor, by the name and stile ol ' the "1 ruf
teesofthe Young Ladies Academy of Phi
ladelphia,' signed by the laid trustees, to
gether with the opinion of Jared Ingerfoll
Esq. attorney general of the said common
wealth thereon was exhibited to the faic
lupremecourt ; who, having perused anc:
examined the fame, concur with him ir.
opinion, that the objects, articles, aijd con
ditions therein set forth and contained,
arc lawful-
Thomas M'Kean,
Edward Shippen,
Jasper Yeates,
William Bradford.'
*DeceaJed.
IN THE NAME and by the au
thority of the common
wealth Gf Pennsylvania, Tho-
SEAL. mas Mifflin, governor of the
said commonwealth:—-To
Thomas Matthew Irwin, Esq. matter
Mifflin. of the rolls in and for the
said commonwealth,
SENDS GREETING :
WHEREAS, it has been duly certified
tome by Jared Ingerfoll, Esq. attorney
general of the said commonwealth, and by
Thomas M'Kean, Efqrs. chief jufiices, &
Edward Shippen, Jasper Yeates, and Wm.
Bradford, Efqrs. jufticesoftbefupremecourt
of Pennsylvania, that they have refpeftive
ly peru fed and examined the foregoing afl
or instrument for the incorporation of the
trnftees of the young ladies academy of
Philadelphia, and that they concur in opi
nion, that the objects, articles, and condi
tions therein set forth and contained, are
lawful.
Now Itntnu you, that in pursuance of the
ast of the general assembly in such cafe
made and provided, I have transmitted the
said ast or instrument of incorporation un
co you the said Matthew Irwin, master oi
Che rolls aforefaid, hereby requiring yov
to enroll the fame at the expence of the
ipplicants, to the intent that, according tc
the objects, articles and conditions |therein
"et forth and contained, the parties maj
sjcoijic and be a corporation or body poli
ce in law and in fact, to have continuance
:>y riie name, stile and title in the said in-
Iruroent provided aud declared.
Giyen under my hand and the less seal
qf the Stare of Pennsylvania this tirit
day of February, in the year of our
Lord, one thousand feveu hundred
ninety-two, and of the common
wealth the (ixteenth.
By the governor.
A»-l. - ■€ m »tti-y.
Inrolled in tjie Rolls' Office, for the
state of Pennsylvania, in law book
; S EAL)N». 4, page2Bl. &c. wituefs my
hand and seal of office, the jd oi
February, 1792 -
Matthew Irwin, M. R.
[The Bye-Laws in our next. ]
"urfory observations on the pernicious
tendency of borrowing money in Europe.
[From The Crifts, a publication in tht
Boston Independent Chronicle.']
ONE leading principle which ought tc
govern the rulers and people of the
United States is, to avoid as much as polli
jle, every political comleftion in Europe,
rhe manners and politics of the greatell
jart of that country, are totally oppofec
:o the real interest and advancement oi
:he American government. The repub
lican principles, on which are founded tht
balis of cur constitution, are in great dan
ger of being totally eradicated, ihould w<
enter into any intimacy whatever with
F.uropean courts more particularly
when we know that many of our greal
characters feel a predilection for the dif
tinftions, titles, pomp and parade attend
ant on monarchical and ariftocratical in*
[titutions.
The connection of these young state:
with old European courts is equally as un
natural, as the union of old age and youth;
Our interelis are so far at variance, that
their politics must be always hostile ;
neither can the American commerce, agri
culture and manufactures ever thrive while
we continue in the habit of promoting
tjieirs—ln ihort, America stands detached
from the world, otherwavsthanasa triend
to the cause of virtue aud freedom ; ihe
must expect to flouriih as a nation by th^ 1
integrity of the citizens, the cheapness oi
her commodities, the regulation of her na
vigation, the promotion of her manuiac
tures and the improvements of her agri
culture. UNSHACKLED WITH ANY
FINANCIERING
must become in reality, as well as in name
free, sovereign and independent—Thu:
eftabliihed, neither the cabals nor ammo
fities ariiing from ambition, which alter
nately convulfethe European powers, wil.
ever be able to dilturb her peace, or injure
her prosperity. —In a politicalJetije, piovi
ded we are collected within ourielves,
the permanency of our government wil
ever ft and unmoved', amidtna wrttk $
matter, and the crujli of worlds.''
The above reflections naturally arofc
while reading the account of the loans
lately effected in Europe. These comma
nications are announced by Congrvfs will
a degree of fatisfaction, as if the honor
[Total No. 129.]
and credit of the United States, received
additional fupportfrom them. The 'pans
obtained at Amsterdam and Antwerp, are
Oiled a confirmation of our public credit;
and what is more surprising, they are de
clared excitements to enforce the obligati
-011 to enter on systematic and effectual ar
rangements, for discharging | the public
debt.
There is a dignity which ought ever to
be maintained by a nation, in all their pub
lic conduct. Whatever is published to the
world as the result of their deliberations,
should exhibit, in the moftftriking manner,
their credit and reputation. But how
humiliating to every American, to find us
boafling of the establishment of our public
credit, merely by the loans of a tew mil
lions of guilders obtained from the munifi
cent cities of Ant werp&Amiterdam, & their
generosity urged as a principal reason to
enforce our obligations to enter into fyfte-.
matic, and effectual arrangements for dis
charging the public debt.
After the many brilliant publications of
our public revenue, authenticated by the
Secretary of the Treasury ; the vast Jur
p/us ariling after discharging our annual
interest—the pompous accounts of the in
crease of our commerce, and the universal
flourifhing lituation of our country, can it
now be a matter of such high exultation,
that the cities of Antwerp and Amsterdam
should loan to these States, the amount of
a few thousand dollars, upon the security
of this vast display of refourccs ?—Was it
prudent or expedient, that we should make
this public boast of our encreafing reputa
tion, and declare to the world that the li
berality of those cities calls on us for a
more effectual fyjjtm of finance ?—This
certainly cannot be intended to reflect on
the ingenuity of Mr. Hamilton ; for where
arc the systems already adopted, on which
such encomiums have beenlavifhed ? How
comes ft to pass thartftey are not effectual,'
when on paper, there appears such a vast
overplus, to answer every emergency?
Is theconduft of Antwerp and Amsterdam,
the sole stimulus for our exertions—when
long before we borrowed any money of
them, we were told "by authority, that
the revenue was competent to every pur
pose ? If there was a fufficiency for all our
wants, why do we still involve onrfelves <
by borrowing ? Or if there was not, we
Ihould at least be indulged by knowing the
cause of the failure.
The money borrowed of these cities, it
is probable,arc on terms equally as humili
ating as our former loans ; if so, not only
the revenue, but every spire of grass, is
mortgaged for its redemption. It would
be well that the communication of our
loans should be accompanied with a copy
ofthe contratt.
It is aflerted, that the loans obtained,
enforce the obligation to discharge the na
tional debt ; as If the obligation was great
er to perfwns who tent us money upon the
moll ample security, than to our own ci
tizens, who a (lifted us with money and ser
vices in those days when uncertainty and
distress pervaded our public measures.
These loans are made upon the princi
ple of reducing the rate of interest, tliac
we may discharge a certain proportion of
the debt that now carries 6 per cent. If
this is the reason, there was 110 occasion to
hold up an idea of the mighty obligation
we are under to these people, or to bring
our national credit to the level of a few
millions of guilders. A Dutchman or
\ uftriai) would not lend a farthing, with
out the mqft ample security ; and if we
;uarar.tyed the payment to their full fatis
;'aQioil, we are not under such infinite ob
igation to them. The individuals, who
;ver they are, must feel their importance,
o find the United States, so publicly ac
knowledging their charitable disposition,
ind extolling their kindness 5 while on
the other hand, when they peruse the
terms, on which this obligation is found
;d, they must smile at our excessive conde
[cer.fion, and extreme politeness.
The idea of borrowing money m Eu
rope, to discharge our debts, notwith
standing at firft view it may appear favour
able. yet it is probable in a few years it
will be attended with disagreeable conse
quences. It is rather flattering to sup
pose we are borrowing money at 5 per
cent, to discharge a debt which is drawing
6 per cent. —But when we consider the
cxpepces attending the negotiation, and
the numberless et ceieras, in tranfafting
Che business, it is much doubted whether
the net amount that goes into the treasury,
is much fhortjof the original o per cei.t. —When therefore, we take into considerati
on, the probable saving that is made, toge
ther with our giving foreigners such ad
vantages, by having these negotiations
transacted within their country, rather
than within our own ; to become tributa
ry to foreign courts, or individuals, there
by rendering our funds in some degree de
pendent upon external accidents, and fluc
tuating with every politic&l breeze that
wafts an unfavourable rumor as to war 01
peace ; these few confutations mull con
vince us of the impropriety of the measure.
But a greater evil itill presents itfeli :
Should we be obliged to make annual re
mittances, either in specie or bills of ex
change, it wouljl operate as a heavy bur
den on our already distressed commerce. —
It mult plainly appear, that aitho' the 10311
may be obtained at a lower interest, yet
the chance is, that the negociation may be
greatly againtl us, by the mode of payment.
Should government have occasion for bills,
the price of them, in consequence of the
demand, mi£ht be from fix to ten per cent,
above par Tins advance would in the firft
instance, fall on the merchant, and after
wards on the whole people, by the rife ol
imported articles. Inltead, therefore, ol
saving tnoney by the loan, we might, from
the disadvantages of our remittances, be
come great fufferers.
This one conlideration of the price ol
bills is a proof that we had better obtain
our loans within ourselves, than to borrow
of Europeans, at any rate whatever FOl
when remittances are called for, either spe
cie or bills mult be obtained; in either cafe
it will prove fatal to every class of citizens
[To be continued. ]
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
LONDON, Nov. 20.
the commercial world will, in the
courfeof a few years, derive great benefit
from an expedition which is Ihnrlly to be
made to the eastern and weflern coalts ol
South America. A sloop of war is now in
the river ready to fail on the intended
Voyage, and the obje&is to fix upon a spot,
on which to found a settlement favourable
to the southern Whale Filhery, and othei
©bjefts of commerce.
Notwithstanding external appearance.'
of cordiality ,it is certain that a secret jea
lousy is already kindled between the courts
of Peterlburg and Vienna. The latter
cannot fee, without unealinefs, the prodi
gious acquisition the empress has made by
the entire subjugation ofPoland, while flie
has contributed nothing to the crusade a
gainst France, but promises and threats.—
It is impoflible for the emperor's ministers
not to compare her success with their own
failure, and thence to infer, that Aultria
has been made the deluded inltrument of
Jier ambition.
At Vienna, the restoration of the old
government of France, formerly believed
to be an easy matter, begins to be thought
extremely difficult, if not impoflible; and
the advocates of the revolution increase
both in number and in confidence.
At Berlin, people talk with greaterfree
dom It is well known, that the expedi
tion against France was never popular
there, and the ill fu:cefs of it has added
greatly to the discontent. The effervef
cence, however, is by no means likely to
rife to infurrettion. The focus is at Ber
lin, but its rays, though lively, are not
fufficiently vigorous to ast with much ef
fect on the other parts of the monarchy.
The number of fugitive French priests
now in this country are really a burden to
the public. Some of them are preparing
to go to Canada, hoping to find the means
ps lubfiftence in that colony. It is me
lancholy £0 fee the change in many ; from
rioting fumptuoully, now reduced to tat
ters and a morsel of bread. All however,
are not real objects of pity : and the fol
lowing lines will aptly apply to one of the
dignified, in whom the public cannot be
mistaken :
" He was so proud, that had he met
The twelve Apo files in the flreet,
He would have hooted at St. Paul
And twrn'd his nose up at them all."
VIENNA, October 20.
His Imperial and Apostolic Majesty has
made an official requisition to all the Itali
an powers, in order to induce them to as
sist the king of Sardinia in driving the
French troops, " more formidable by their
doctrines than their swords," from Savoy
and Nice, and thus to prevent that nation
from keeping pofleflion of a conquest which
willferve as " the key" to Italy.
It is doubtful whether the republic of
Venice will pay any attention to this ap
plication.
The Pope has promised 2000fcudi ; but
he will find it difficult to procure even that
fumas his fubjc£ts are already Frenchmen
in their hearts.
Genoa has declared itfelf neutral.
The king of Naples w : ll regulate his
conduct according to that of Spain.
As for Dukes of Parma and Modena,
they cannot raise above jooo men between
them !
The Emperor, in the mean time, has
ordered fix battallions of infantry, and as
many squadrons of cavalry, to march to
**>♦ assistance of Sardinia.
For the National Gazel-te.
(Cirtcinnatm continued.)
To the President of the United Statis.
SIR,
"yOU have not often been troubled with
anonymous addrefles, it may therefore
be thought proper, that Tome apology be
made you for the obtrulion of this ; but
the novelty gf the measure must be juftifi
ed by thenecellity of the cafe, and by that
claim which your injured companions in
arms have to your patronage and protecti
on,—derived from those profefllons and
promises made to them by you when their
commander in chief. They then refpecft
ed you as they ought, as soldiers they glo
ried in you, as friends they loved you ;
they once thought their affections for you
reciprocal, and would even now reluctant
ly give up that belief.
My address to yon will be in plain re
publican language. Ido not pretend to
understand thole prudent forms of deco
rum, those gentle rules of discretion,
which courtly foftnefs may prescribe.
No man knows as well as you the Cervi
ces, facrifices and fufferings of the late ar
my ; your tribute of acknowledgements is
on record, —it does juflice to your head
ami heart ; but Sir, by what fatality has it
happened, that your countenance, which
once delighted and animated them, is now
withdrawn from their support ? There was
a time, when the army never would have
believed, that you could be at the head oi
government for four years, without mak
ing one effort, without expressing a tingle
wifli for a retribution of their services.
Can it be poflible, Sir, that you have aban
doned the known rules of right, to adopt
the quibbling diftiilitions of the Treasury ?
The army have now come forward, qi:af<
una vnce y and have thrown themselves on
the justice, the humanity and of
Conjrefs—to all-: that as a gratuity which
they ought to receive as a right. Such
men, struggling with adveriity, must al
ways be an interesting scene to them ; —at
light of so much virtue in distress your na
tural benevolence will take the alarm and
anticipate their a£ts of humanity.
The individuals of the late army thought
themselves interelled, and were therefore
active, in the change that effected the pre
sent government. The languor and inabi
lity of the old one deprived them of their
flipulated wages ; but the change has been
the reverse of their expectations ; for they
are not only not benefited, but really inju
red by it, inasmuch as they not only do not
receive any of their own dues, but are
compelled to contribute to pay those very
dues to others, without any fort of equiva
lent or compensation paid to them. If
they were juftifiable in overturning the old
government, because it could not do them
justice, how much less reason have they to
support the present one which does them
injustice.
The present government has been libe
ral to the late army in nothing but negleCt
and contempt. It may be worth while to
pause a little and reflect on the probable
effects of a continuance of these measures.
If nothing Oiall now be granted them, they
will feel cut off from all hopes of rcdrefs—
and in that you lop off their attachment
to government —methinks I fee you start
led at the idea of so extensive an amputa
tion.
Sir, the fains reipublica might again re
quire a practice of those leflons, the army
learnt in their youth before they are toe
old : —now is the time topurchafe the ex
clulive right to their taCtical knowledge, il
may be had at the low price of paying then
their houeft demands ; it will infufe a por
tion of new health into the governmeni
and enable it to bear its infirmities.
A single ray of well directed fympath)
from you will diflipate a cloud which ii
overfhadowingyour own honourable fame.
I have addreifed myfelfto theindividua
members of Congress, through the famt
channel, on this subjeCt, with such argu
ments as, to my understanding, are unan
swerable.
Jan. u. CINCINNATUS.
To the INDIVIDUAL MEMBERS o
CONGRESS.
—4 *
Sir,
A Consideration of my last to you will
naturally refuft in the following queries:
ift. Whether by the principles of justice,
of good faith, of hojjor, of gratitude, the
faithful services of the late army have been
bona fide Remunerated ?
2dly. If they have not, what remains
(till due them ? and
3dly. What are the ways and means
now in our power to enable us to do jus
tice to them ?
To the firft, you cannot lay your hand
upon your breast and answer in the affir-
I mative, provided the basis of christianity
| which inculcates to do as we would be
done unto, has any bias on your aCtions;
I am strengthened in this aflertion by an
opinion, which is rather obsolete indeed,
II mean tbe antiquated, visionary, Utopian
ideas of our President, when commander
in chief of the army, in his letter to Con
gress dated at Newburgh, March 18th,
1753 : "For if belides the limple payment
of their wages, a farther compensation is
not due to the fufFerings and facritices oi
the officers, then I have been miitaken in
deed : if the whole army have not merit
ed whatever a grateful people can bellow,
then have I been beguiled by prejudice,
and built opinion on the balis of error ; ii
this country Ihould not in the event per
orm every thing which has been requeftee
in the late memorial to Congress, ther
will my belief become vain, and the hope
that has been excited void of foundation :
and if as has been suggested for the pur
pose of inflaming their passions, the officer:
of the army are to be the futferers by the
revolution—if retiring from the field, the}
are to grow old in poverty, wretchednei
and contempt —if they are to wade tjhre
:lie vile mire of dependency, and <>we the
niferable remnant of that life to charity,
which has hitherto been spent in honor,
r .hen shall I have learned what ingratitude
s, then shall I have realized a tale which
will embitter every moment of my life :
But I am under no such apprehensions; £
:ountry rescued by their arms from im
pending ruin will never leave unpaid the
ofgratitude." Tothe General's
jive me leave to add one remark, that fin
:erity is better measured by adtions that
arofeflions.
The 2d query is of a more complex na
:ure, partaking of the principles of ftri£l
uftice and juftifiable expediency—l have
already in my former letter said that ftri£l
uflice was not expedted, and that a rea
sonable and moderate compensation would
ae cheerfully and readily acqujefced in—
nth a compensation is now in the hand;
:•{ government derived from the savings of
:he funding fyftvm out of the amny debt—
a debt which was the price of our inde
pendence.
The services of the army at the end ol
he war amounted to 10,000,000 dollars,
"or which certificates bearing an interest oi
') per cent, were ifiued ; full fix years haei
?lapfed. before any interest was paid, the
accumulated sum therefore then amoiinteei
:o about 13,500,000 dollars—at which time
lie funding system was adopted.
When the holders of this debt having
jurchafed it at a very under value_, agreed
generally to fell it to government or
he following terms —that is, to have new
aaper for two-thirds of the principal, or
.vhich should be annually paid 6 per cent,
or which payment certain revenues fhoulc
ae mortgaged ; the remaining third to re
liain a dead unproduttive flock for ter
by which means government wil
ave 2,000,000 dollars—for the interefl thai
A»as become due certain other paper woulc
ae given, and funds mortgaged, purport
ng, that the fame wasdwe by government,
lrawing an interest of three per cent, pet
innum, by which means (taking it for
'ranted that money when due for interefl
sjuft as valuable as principal) a saving i:
nade to government of 1,750,000 dollars,
liaking together 3,750,000 dollars. Tc
A'hom does this money belong ? To the
:ommunity it cannot, for they have receiv
:d a full equivalent for it. To the fpecu
ators, or present holders of the continen
:al debt it cannot, for they have releafec
ill pretensions on conlideration of having
what they now hold placed on so refpe&a
ale a footing, they will not, nay, they dare
not claim it ; to the officers and soldier:
who so painfully and ineritorioufly earnei
it, does it not unequivocally belong? Te
hem it ought and must be paid ; to theii
?xclufive use let it be piously applied, ei
:her in the pnrchafe of annuities for life
jr to be distributed among them in the ra
;io of their pay; it is probable that bj
death and from other causes not more
than 2,000,000 of this sum would ever b<
claimed—this brings us to the 3d query.
What are the ways and means now it
aur power to enable us to do juflice ?
From the facility with which money cai
ae procured from foreigners on loan at :
ow interest, I propose that a loan foi
!,000,000 be negociated at an interest no:
:xceeding 5 per cent, redeemable at plea
sure—you will then have to provide foi
:he payment of the interest which will an
nually amount to 100, coo dollars.
The Secretary of the Treasury in hi:
very figured report to Congress on the
fubjeft of paying off the redeemable fix pel
cents has pointed out and recommendec
two sources which will procure the fun
requifite, that is 60,000 dollars, the profit:
of the bank speculation, and the residue tc
be made up by a tax on pleasure carriages
ar horses.
I have proposed this money to be applied
to this more neceflary and honorable pur
aofe, because 1 am not so convinced of
bis infallibility as to believe it neceflary 01
politic to annihilate our debt fafter than
can be done by a surplus of one per cent,
which may be procured out of the existing
taxes, that is by borrowing money at 5
per cent, to pay off the redeemable fix per
cents, and unalienably applying the one per
cent, surplus as a finking fund which will
extinguish the debt in 33 years. This i:
soon enough; let the next generation paj
a little for the benefit this has conferred on
them.
If however you should object to the ap
plication of the above prcpofed ico,cco to
this laudable purpose bec;:ufe the Secreta
ry of the Treaiury has recommended it
for other purposes, or because you do rot
think it the bed pofliblu, permit me to
point out another. In jr.oft if not all the
states an excise oil tavern-keepers and re
tailers of fpiritUGUs liquor!, is paid and ap
propriated lor different purposes by the
slate authorities—let an additional ade
quate one be laid by Congress for this pur
pofe—ol let Congress alfome the right
which they possess to the whole of this tax
exclusively, which will probably produce
about2CO,cco dollars per annum. T here are
a variety of other untouched eligible sour
ces of revenues which might be eafiiy col
lefled, and in the coile&ion not oppressive.
Inability therefore can be no apology for
refraining to do justice—the unpaid refi
di:e in the hands of government if appro
priated as I have suggested it ought to be,
would give the officers and soldiers about
one third of their original dues, which
added to the two and fix pence which
they have already received, would make a
total payment to the army of nine fhilliugs
and two pence in the pound for their hard
and painful services: for this however
they would give a quit claim forever—and
would remember with gratitude the hands
Chat shall be extended for their relief.
CINCINKATUS.
Jan. 14.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Friday, Jan. 18.
A bill for continuing in force for a limit
;d time, and amending an a£t providing for
.he means of intercourse between the Uni
:ed States and foreign nations, was read
he third time and pasTed—as was alf'o a
>ill for determining the northern bounda
yof the territory ceded to the United
States, by the state of North-Carolina—
ind a bill to regulate trade and intercourse
,vith the Indian tribes.
Mr. Hartley's motion (laid 011 the table
1 few days since) "for appointing ,1
:ommittee to bring in a bill providing half
jay for seven years, for the widows and
irphans of filch officers of the late army as
lave.been killed since June 3d, 1784, or
nay be hereafter killed in the service cf
he United States," was, on motion of Mr,
•"itzfimons, referred to a committee of the
.vhole for next Wednesday.
The bill for compensating John Xucker,
was after some debate agreed to, with an
imendment, and the blank filled up with
JO9 dollars—the bill was then reported, and
>rde;ed to be engrossed.
The report of a fele£t committee on the
jetition of Joseph Henderfon, was taken
nto coilfideration—this report proposes a
■efolution that a yearly fatary of dol
ars be allowed the petitioner from August
[778 to August 1782, as pay-master to the
lavy board for the eastern department—
:he blank was filled up with too dollars.&a
jill ordered to be brought in accordingly.
A message was received from the Senate
ay Mr. Otis their secretary, informing the
ywfe that they have pasTed a bill refpecling
fugitives from justice, and persons who ef
:ape from the service of masters, and re
;jueft the concurrence of the honfe.
Monday, Jan. 21.
•A bill for compensating John Tucker
was brought in and recommitted to the
committee that reported it—The bill,
sent from the Senate on Friday last rela
tive to persons flying from justice, and
perfoiis abfeonding from the service of
their masters, was twice read, and made
the order of the day for this day two
weeks.
The house then in committee of the
whole took up the bill to authorize a
loan in the certificates of the individual
states to the amount of the balances which,
on a final settlement of accounts, fliall be
due to them from the United States.
The bill was read, and discussed by pa
ragraphs—several amendments were pro-'
posed—on motion, the committee rose and
reported progress, and were discharged.
The bill was then recommitted to the spe
cial committee, that reported it, who a
mended the bill and made their report ;
which was read twice and debated on in
committee of the whole—The following
motion by Mr. Merccr was difcufTcd till
the hour of adjournment, viz.—Provided
that 110 fucli note or certificate shall be
fubferibed by any person other than the o
riginal owner thereof, or his legal repre
sentative or guardian, other than an aflig
nee,unlefs it shall be proved by the oath oif
affirmation of the party presenting Jie
fame to the loan-officer to be fubferibed,
that such note or certificate was not trans
ferred to the person in whose name the
fubfeription is made, at any time between
the day of and the ——
day of , and unless it shall appear 011
oath or affirmation, that the person in
whose name the notes or certificates may
be fubferibed, is the real bona fide owner
thereof."PHILADELPHIA.
' January 23.
The remarkable mildness of the present
winter season, exceeds that of every win
ter in the memory of the oldest inhabitant?
of Philadelphia; there has not been the
le a {t interruption to the navigation of the
Delaware, and now at the 23d of January
we hive moderate weather. A line shad was
caught on Wednesday last, and (hould the
river continue open, a considerable run
may f«on be expected.
Afew days since faded from New-Lon
don, for the coast of Africa, the schooner
Sally, Benjamin Buel, master, in whom
went a number of Panifh paflengers. We
her that this veflel is chartered by Col.
Benjamin Van Roler, now in that city, on
account of the Danish government, for the
tnrrpofe of eflaying to establish a colony 011
the fold coaft < at a P lace callell Crev . e
Coeur, In the s th degree of N. lat. It is
said 'he motives for this eftablifhi-gent are.
to cultivate the foil, &if pollible to civilize
the natives: much to the praise of the hu
manity of the Danes. It is intended that.
Jhould the Africans prove hoflile to the
delign, to give it up, as the principal airr
of the enterprize in that cafe would be
rendered abortive.
We hear that the eldest Ton of Mr. Peak
is aboi:-- to set out on a voyage to St. Ma
[ ry's river, the southernmost part of the.U
nited States of Amcrica, for the pnrpofe ol
Colle£ting fubjefts of natural hiitory, b>
whose labours and knowledge in his fa
ther's method of preserving them, Mr,
Peale's museum will be enriched with ma
ny of those beautiful birds and curious rep
tiles, &c. that abound in the warmer cli
mates.
We are informed that when Mr. Blan
chard, after his aerial' excursion, 011 the
9th irift. was attempting to descend frou
his perpendicular height of two miles, h<
was espied by two Jersey farmers, a
miles beyond Woodbury, in Glouceftei
county, one of whom was so terrified, thai
taking the aeronaut for fume sky-man
hoftilely inclined, he ran to his hou'e tor £
gun, to defend hiinfelf. It was in vair
thatM. Blanchard called to them for as
sistance in mooring his balloon ; their fear
conquered every other consideration ; ant
it was not till some citizens of Philadel
phia came up, who had followed on horf(
back, that he was fately landed.
Late letter's from Europe mention all I
taly to be in a state of disorder. The peo
pie, dreading above all things a visit tron
the armies and fleets of France. The Popi
had held a Coniiftory,in which it was agreec
to raise tax upon all his benefices
to contribute to the defence of the ecclefi
tactical ltate's, and to succour the king o
Sardinia. It is also said, that the preju
dices of his fubje&s operate strongly again!
the present Pope, Pius the sixth, and hi
conclave ; the old verse constantly recur
ring to their imaginations—Semper Jin
Sextis perdita Roma fait.
The spirit of French liberty already vi
brates through Ireland. A view ot thi
Former condition of the French with tha
of the present opprefied state of the Irilh
cannot but set them a thinking. The con
quests of republican France are ever;
where celebrated through that long op
preifed island; and " President Walhing
ton," " Thomas Paine," " the Rights o
Man," and " success to the French revo
lution," are every where the toalt.
Perhaps fsw crowned heads have eve
been more completely duped than the pre
sent king of Pruflia. Several accourfts a
gree that at the very time he W3S attack
ing France, the Empress of Russia and th<
Emperor of Germany had agreed to dividi
his kingdom between them. The packe
containing the articles of this infamous a
greement being intercepted by Gen. Pu
inouricr, and by him instantly communica
ted to the king of Pruflia, appears to hav<
been the <?aufe of that sudden retreat 01
the part of the PrulHan monarch, which a
the time appeared so unaccountable to po
liticians.
A fubfeription has been opened in Bos
ton for holding a grand Civic Feast, 01
account of the success of the patriotii
cause in France. The plan of the enter
tainment extends to all classes of persons
On the 18th instant, the committed o
the House of Representatives of the ftat<
of New York, finiflied their bulinefs, rela
tive to the decision of the seven canvassers
and were discharged. The whole hiltor;
of the legislative proceedings on this inter
efting fubje£t is ordered to be published it
four different newspapers of the state, foi
public information.—" The enemies to th<
decision of the seven canvaflers, in favoui
of Gov. Clinton's election, may now b<
considered as totally defeated ; and thi
victory obtained is as glorious in its naturi
against corruption and aristocratic power
as J the victories of France are over the com
bined foes of liberty and equality."
The following extratt of a letter, datei
Char It ft on, S. C.Dec. 24, is copied fron,
thi Norwich Weekly Regijler, of Jan. 14,
"A few days since departed this life
H-nry Laurent, Esq. about 70 y ears of age
and his cqrps was burnt the third day af
ter his decease. This was done by his
&>», at requrft of the Father ; who made
-j-ij o rpfervc iii will, that utile)s hi j
:ompliedvjith this re^teft, he /hould be cut
"uort of any of his ejlate ; which wa
worth about 60,0001. lterling. Tne allK'-
-emaining from tne body were taken up
ind put into a iilver urn for that purpole.
I'he reason that Mr. Laurens gave for
:his Angular delire, was, that his body was
too good to be eaten by worms.
Important-news from the IVeft Indies.
On Sunday Jan. G, arrived at Norfolk,
the brig William Pennock, Capt. Williams,
who failed from Point Petre, Guadaloupe,
[in the 15th December. Four days buiotc
Capt. Williams left the island, the frigate
La Felicite arrived at Dominica, in 3>
lavs from France, and brought news oi trie
leieat of the Comoined Forces, which let
:he whole idand in a fermentation ; the in
habitants were all quitting the llland, in
expectation of a fleet coming from f ranee.
Capt. Williams took in 20 paffengerstor
St. Euftatia, where ha arrived 011 the 18th,
and found five more American vefl'elsfroni
different parts of the island, full ot f rencli
palfengers, and a number more momently
expected. St. Euftatia was full of f rencii
people, and scarce a house to be got on any
terms. At St. Martin's on the 20th ult.
iikewife found several more veflels from
CJuadaloupe, with 40, 50, and 60 pallen
-"ers on bard ; aifo a veffe) from Martini
lo, with palfengers, wlro informed him thai
island was in the fame situation as Guada
loupe, which was continually under arms.
A gentleman on board the vellel from Mar
tinicu fay;, 1 yooof the inhabitants had quu
tedUe island,& all kind of bwfinefs was at ;
(land ; nothing doing except fortifying tm
island, repairing the lorts,and getting in or
der to arm tiieir negroes a gain It the flee!
which they expected to arrivefromr ranee.
InGv.adaloupe they purchased So,coo ftanc
[.farms from the other i lands ; and on
the firlt appearance ot the fleet, the Plant
er:; were determined to arm their negioes
to protect the white flag. Ihe frigate Lj
Felicite got information ofaFreuch frigate
who wore the white ftig, manned \\ ith
muiattoes, which the La Felieite ga\ e
chace to —the run into Hack - S tali", Guada
loupe, under cover of ti'e guns. The cap
tain of the La Felicite wrote the Gover
vernor of Guadaloupe, it he caught anj
Aristocratic flags in the Weft Indies, he
was determined to fink them —He ben: his
course to Dominica, he could not obtain
supplies in the French islands. 4
Th&atre in Boston.
Copy of a letter from Bolton, dated Jan.
14, '793-
" The theatrical squabble in Boston. ha;
gained the attention of the whole union,
and has been the subject of convertation.
even in the polite metropolis of America.
The part taken by the ftipreme executive
of Mafl'achnfetts, has been represented ii
various points of light, according the
taste, feelings, and even the political fenti
mcnts, of thufe who have chosen to niakt
their aniinadverfions upan it. Ihe honoi
of the town of Boston, and the reputatioi
of the government here, being in son.c
measure interested in having the trutr
known, I feud you a state of facts, whicl
may be relied on."
" In the year 1742 the general courl
made a law again!! theatrical enter tain
ments. What induced the government tc
take that measure, is not at this time, with
in the memory of any one now on the stage
of life. Whether a company of players vi
sited the town then, or were invited tc
come, or what was the reason of the aft';
being pafied, I am not able to learn."
" The ast was to continue in force foi
seven years only J but it was continued un
til the year 1779 by subsequent laws, anc
then revived and continued to the yeai
1786. Inthe year 1785, four years after the
present constitution was in exercise, itwa
continued to the year 1797. A Mr. Henry
:ame to Boston about three or four years
ago, and proposed a theatre, the town was
igainft the introduction of plays at that
:ime. Ido not conceive that their objec
tions arose altogether, nor in any confider
ible degree from an apprehension that the
norals of the people would be corruptee
jy a theatre : but they believed that the
own c«uld not afford the expence, anc
hey also concluded that no valuable pur
lofes could be answered by exhibitions of
hat kind. They knew very well, thai
he origin of the drama was in Greece, thai
;he Romans took it from those states, anc 1
ntroduced it to Europe ; and every one
ivho has read history knows, that the dra
ma in all those countries, was but a pre
lude to the loss of liberty. The exhibiti-
Dns of the theatre, of the circus, &c. amu
"ed the Romans, and Grecians, whiift theii
rulers robbed .them of their liberty."
" In the year 1791, another set of play
ers offered themselves in Boston : a town
meeting was called upon the petition of a
number who advocated the theatre. The
meeting wasfull, eight hundred people, out
of eighteen hundred inhabitants having a
right to vote, attended : warm harrangues
were made in favour of the measure. The
constitutionality of the law was called in
question : those who were against the mea
sure attempted to speak, but were hissed,
and a majority of the voters present, ap-
peared to inflruft the reprefentatires of the
town, to procure a repeal of the a£t-
When the session of the general court had
commenced, Mr. Tudor, and Mr. Jirvis,
representatives of the town, aided by the
learned dissertation of Mr. Gardner, cal
led up the queltion : they were patiently
heard, and seriously attended to, but no
member of the house attempted a reply ;
when the vote was taken, there was but a
very few indeed in favour of the repeal.
The governor had taken no part in all
this matter."
" 111 the yenr 1792 a fetof players offer
ed again; a building was ereited, and the
theatre : plav bills were iflued ;
tj tragedies-and comedies advertised with
r-iie names of the aitors. This was done
in open contempt, and defiance of the go
vernment. The grand jury did not pre
sent the breaches of the law, as was ex
pected. The general court soon after
wards was in session : the governor had
nsver dire£tly, or indire&ly tried to pre
vent a repeal of the law : but as it was in
force, and openly violated, he thought it
his duty to mention it to the general court,
by which the act: might be conlidered, and
repealed if necelfary ; inflend ot repealing
it, the two houses requefled the governor
in their answer to his message, to fee that
the judiciary power of the Itate should sup
port and enforce the law. As soon as the
general court had liiifhed their Seflions, the
pfay bills were multiplied* and the authori
ty of the government treated with con
tempt, by a few aliens and foreigners en
couraged by men from whom the public
iiiight have expected other treatment. The
cou.icil was in session in November, and
advised the governor to call upon the at
torney-general and the migiflrates, to Sup
port the laws. Still a piay was appointed
in an open, defiance of the
government. The fheritf poflefled of a
warrant went into the play house, took
one of the actors, and put an end to the
plays."
" Since then, there has been a meeting
of the town called, when thoSe who did
not incline to be hissed, or mal-treated for
Speaking their minds, did not attend.
Hand bills were struck off and served on
about three hundred chosen men, request
ing their attendance until the vote ihould
be taken. One man only appeared in the
oppolition, but he was not heard. There
appears therefore a vote on the town re
cords for the appointment of a committee
to obtain a repeal of the law, because it is
uiiConflitutional and absurd. Thus the
town of Boston appears to the public, as
pitted again!! the general court, on a quef
tioji -:he conllitutional rights of
tim people, to have the amusement of the
theatre. The town have heretofore flood
HM more relpe£table point of light, and
engaged .in matters of greater moment to
the public ; hut their then leaders were
engaged in nobler pursuits. The opinion
of Sober and judicious men is, that if this
law is unconstitutional, all those againfl
gambling, usury, and crimes not neceflary
to be mentioned, as well as Sundry laws,
and those for Supporting public worlhip,are
so likewise : in ihort that the con/iitution
itjelf is unconstitutional.''''
" You fee Sir, from these facts, that the
part our governor has taken, is not upon
the idea that it is wrong in itfelt to have a
theatre, but that it is right, and proper for
the magistrates to support the laws : and
that whilfl the legislature (hall continue the
law in being, it is right it should be sup
ported. It might have been carried into
execution without his attendingto it, but
it was not. He has the example of the
President in late instances, as well as of o
ther high executive officers, for this inter
ference.
' " But Sir, this fame governor, is the cen
tre of republican inurejt in our Common
wealth, he knows no dijlinHion bet*ween the
-well born arid ill born ; he is againfl mo
narchy ; and h>. therefore is to be abused.
But a large majority love him, he has the
confidence of his conflituents.'' 1
ExtraCls from the Leyden Gazette, to No
vember 2d.
r. The sudden change of affairs, with
regard to the combined invaders of France,
is to many a perfect mystery. How is it
to be accounted for, fay they, that after
such a fuccefsful progress the Duke of
Brunfwick suddenly halted in his career,
between St. Menehould and Chalons—and
how was it pofiible, that after such a vari
ety of movements, no one ot which mate
rially injured his plans, he should all at
once abandon the cause he had undertaken,
and make an inglorious retreat, worse in
its consequences to him than the absolute
loss of a battle ? We need no longer wOn
det, however, at this event when we con
sider that the sorest of Argonne is the Ther
mopylae of France ; and that their new re
public is chiefly indebted to the discern
ment of General Kellerman in timeoufly
pofTeffing this invincible post. This, and
his sustaining with so much firmnefs the
cannonade of the 20th of September, com
pletely deranged all the plans of the Duke
of Brunfwick.
2. As to the army of the French Emi
grants, it is broken up and dismissed-—
These wretched men have received a let
ter of license from marshal Broglio, by
which they are permitted to go wherever
they fee fit, with an exception, however,
to re-join the main army at the earlieji re
'{uifition : a clause that Teems to have been
added fnerely to aggravate despair. In
fa£t, in this permit neither their names
nor places of abode are mentioned ; but
they are advised to recommend themselves
in the best manner they can to such powers'
as {hall be disposed to receive them. They
are, indeed, real objects of pity, and efpe
:ially those among them who quitted their
country and property from dilinterefled
motives. Great numbers have determi
ned to return into France at all events;
and are daily felling, for almost nothing,
:heir coaches, horses, &c. &c. Such of
hele miserable people as are absolutely
without means, and know not where to
jo, arc to be quartered at Malmedy.
3. The recent events of tills campaign
lave wholiy disappointed the jjrojecltd
>lan of holding a pacific Congress at Lux
:mbourg : at lealt, there is no probability
jf filch an event taking place this year.
The French, in the career of their fuc
:efs, seem determined to carry the molt
inqualified liberty thro' Europe, and, ex
ravagant as it may seem, talk of nothing
jut exterminating tyrants from every cor
ler of the civiliz?d world.
4 Much has been said of Spain joining
lie belligerent league againlt France: It
s true that they are putting their frontier
nto a llate of defence, but that is all, and
nerely meant by way of precaution, and
lot of offeniive warfare. The rejection of
oyal government in France has occasioned
1 prodigious fliock in the minds of the
Spaniards, but the prime minitler seems
fully convinced that war with France can
lot be otherwise than ruinous to Spain ;
:here is, therefore, ev«!ry reason to think
:hat he will periilt in his pacific system,
aotwTtE (landing remonstrances from every
quarter of the kingdom, urging to a con
nary measure. Add to this, that the in
iuence of the clergy is in adeclining way ill
Spain, who in any other age than the pre
sent might have influenced the crown to
the support of despotism.
5- The English seem not to have viewed
with a complaisant eye the French mari
:ime expeditions to the Mediterranean.
Letters from Antibes mention, that admi
al Truguet has taken a large English ship
;oing into Nice with a load of mulkets,
ind other military {lores. She was can
lufted to a fafe port.
EXTRACT.
" The name of Hejfe awakens a melan
choly remembrance ! It was this prince
who, to fill his coffers, let out so many of
lis fubje£ts to England, to serve in the J ast
4merican war, not under the standard of
ibertyy but the bloody flag Of despotism.
These unfortunate wretches, torn from
:he bosom of their country, saw them
elves counted over to the hirer like
leads j transported beyond the ocean;
lrmed against men who had never ofFerkled
:hem ; and condemned to mafl'acre the ge
lerous inhabitants, who had formed no o
her intention but to free themselves from
1 ihameful dependence on the mother
country, which had treated them like ille
gitimate children."
" The sovereign of these Hessians fold
hem by the head, as the ferocious African
ells his timid slaves to the insatiable Eu
opean, who chains them, and crouds them
nto his floating prison, in which they are
liurried away, to labour under a scourge
us iron upon a foreign foil."
" By thisagreeme.it, equally difgraceful
to both the contracting powers, the En
;li(h were obliged to pay as much for those
Hessians w]io fhoijld be maimed, as if they
had been killed. Alas 1 what ail account
tt'as here opened : what a balance was to
je struck bet.ween the two fivereigns at
:he end of the war. Who could attend to
the horrid calculation without fhudder
ng ? You have delivered to me so many of
your fubje£ls, to be employed iti cutting
the throats of mine. Five hundred died
in the voyage : Two thousand perished in
different actions : Three thousand have
been wounded in such a manlier, that they
can exist only by the alfiftance which pity
may afford them : consequently I owe you
such a sum. Here it is—treafnre up these
juineas in your coffers; and disperse thro'
your llate the unhappy witnefl'es of my de
feats, and of your shame."
%* I Hh Officers ot the late New-Jer
sey line are requested to meet at the house
of James Drake, in New-Brunfwiclq on
Thurfdaythe seventh day of February
next, at the hour of ten in the morning, to
take into conlideration the application of
different lines of the late army now before
the Congress of the United States.—Dated
January 16th, 1793.
J. N. CUMMING.
JONATHAN RHEA.
SIX-PENCE REWARD.
RUNAWAY from the fubferiber, living in
Southampton townftiip, Bucks County, oil
the fifth of January, a servant Jad named THO
MAS SMITH, had on a striped cloth coat ? old
felt hat, and woolen trowfers, whofocvcr shall
apprehend the said lad, and bring him home to
his master, lhall have the above reward, but no
charges paid. JOSHUA WOOD.
Jan. 22*ar wKaMMOTßcaggugmiLLfTOi vm wi m n ■ ■■ 11—i
[Continuation of the Debate on Mr.
Steele's motion for the reduction of
the Military Edabli(hment of the Uni
ted States.]
Thursday, January 3.
[[Mr. Findley's Speech continued.]
WHAT exertions were made to
procure peace, or grant protec
tion, is a very natural enquiry. One re
giment was employed by the old Con
gress to guard the frontier; though this
was a force in fufficient for the purpose, yet
it is to be considered that the then go
vernment |iad not the command of re
venue, and the individual Rates had com
petent powers, and the command of their
own revenue ; the enemy was not combi
ned, ror so mnch of the frontier didreff
ed. But did this mod pressing object ob
tain the earlied attention of Congress, or
the fird provision ? No it did not. An
ill defined law was enacted, empowering
the Prefioent to call out the militia, be
fore any militia law of Congress exided ;
the consequence was that though they
could not be compelled, yet a number of
those who were called upon went to the
Miami villages with General Harmar ;
with those and his own regiment, he ar
rived at, and dedroved those villages, and
if he had had but two regiments of good
permanent troops with the affidance of a
few chosen militia, he could have fecu
'red a lodgment there, notwithstanding the
tonisfortunes of his skirmishing parties
and peace would have been the probable
consequence ; but as the time of service
of the militia had expired, if he had been
tver so fortunate he mud have retreated
as he did; thus the savages were ex
tremely irritated, the signal given for 11 ■
nion, and a great extent of frontier, for
merly in supposed security, became the
object of more than a common degree of
savage vengeance. In this didreffing situ
ation of our affairs, the next dep taken
by Congress was to enact a law for rai
ling a second regiment, and to enlist le
vies for fix months at two dollars a month,
and cloathing designed for to lad half the
year; jud fufficient to take them to the
wilderness, -there to starve with cold in
the mod inclement season of the year.
The fatal catadrophe in which this cam
paign ended need not be repeated, there
is no danger ®f its being forgot: that it
has encreafed the union and courage of
the Indians, and encouraged them to
treat with the mod indignant insolence
our overtures of peace, is evident from
the fate of the brave men who fell with
the flags ; for whose families we have
been jud making provision. Perhaps it
may be laid, as has at lead been reported,
that Congress only enacted into laws the
plans recommended by the war depart
ment ; how true this is in all the indan
ces to which 1 have alluded I know not;
but at any rate it is no apology. We
have no right to cad our legidative. re
sponsibility upon the executive depart
ment—this power for which our charac
ter is exclusively responsible, cannot be
transferred without a breach of trud.
And for these objects there was no other
information necessary but what was pos
sessed by the house. Congress knew that
the wages were not a fufficient encourage
ment to procure fit men, they knew it
bore no reasonable proportion to the
price of labor, at lead where the men
were expected ; they knew that the time
was too short for enliding the
such scanty encouragement, and for car
rying on so didant and precarious an ex
pedition, even if no accidents or mifma
nagement were to take place; but cer
tainly accidents and mismanagement
ought to be provided for in underta
kings of this nature; they know, or
might have known, that trifling with such
a war would naturally excite the flame,
and not quench it.
It cannot be pretended that resources
were wanting. Congress received the
public purse with the government, and
they very properly soon rendered it pro
dudtive. At an early period revenues
were found ; not only to provide for the
debts of the Union, for the discharge of
•which they were bound by contrast; but
also made proviGon for the debts of the
individual dates, to do which they were
bound by no contrast ; and which are
not yet liquidated, nor their amount
known. I cannot suppose this neglect
was altogether owing to inattention, for
committee! were frequently held on th<
(late of the Union, and surely the defence
of the union was the fird ftibjeft which
could prefervt itfelf to their thoughts. As
no fufficient reason for this neglect has
ever occurred to me, I continue to view
it with surprize; perhaps others can bet
ter account for it.
However, last fefiion we were fuffici
ently convinced of our error, the object
was fully before us, as well as the plan
proposed to be pursued, and however we
regretted the expence, and evils dill more
to be dreaded, from a (landing army, we
from convi&ion, provided adequate means,
and now after much of the expence is in
curred, and the end not accomplilhed,
there is an attempt to withdraw the
means : surely gentlemen have not taken
a full view of the ftibjeft.
Arguments have been drawn in favor of
the resolution from the flow progress of
the recruiting service, and the inactivity of
the army lad summer. On this fubjeft, I
have a very different opinion. Let gen
tlemen for a moment refledt upon the dif
ficulties the recruiting service had to en
counter. The levies after a scene of ar
duous fatigue, enduring hunger and na
kedness, many of tl em were left rotting
on the desolate sod in the wilderness, and
those who survived the horrid carnage,
returned with infinite hardlhips to their
homes, they with difficulty procured the
pittance allowed them by law ; their
mouths were filled with complaints, nor
did they alone complain ; and though the
wages were raised a dollar a month, yet
even so, it was not a fufficient encou
ragement where the greated number, and
the bed men were fought for; but this
house are not to blame for this, for we
had agreed once, and again, to make the
wages higher, but were over-ruled by the
other legislative branch. When gentle
men maturely reflect on those eonfidera
tions, and also that the fprlng was far ad
vanced, before the recruiting service could
commence, they will with me rather be
surprized that ;t has succeeded so well ;
it is indeed beyond my mod sanguine ex
peditions, and the men are not generally
of the mod inferior kind, as has been sug
gested.
With refpeft to the ina&ivity of the
army, the observations may have in some
degree arose from something expressed by
me lome days ago, I think on another
fubjeft.
I then said that the army which ren
dezvoused at Pittsburgh had not underta
ken the defence of the frontier, and pre
vented the necessity of militia service.*—
That some of the counties had been more
didreffed by the savages lad summer, and
the militia service more burthenfome than
at any time since the peace with Britain,
that even the county where thev lay had
to employ militia ; and this is certainly
true ; of the reasons for this I have not
been informed, nor am I accountable for it.
—However, it is but reasonable that I
(hould offer such reasons as fugged them
selves to me. It is well known in this house
that General Butler's having, according to
orders, sent such of the levies as arrived
early, to the frontiers, and therefore afford
ed necessary protcftion in time of harvest,
was much complained of, and assigned as
a cause of defeat, not only by delay, but
want of discipline, though I do not think
it had that effect ; yet probably to prevent
complaipts of this nature, the introducing
difciplirte and military habits among the
new raised troops may have been judged
preferable to the defence of the frontier ;
prevailing desertions might have had its
weight; but though this might be com
plained of with refpeft to those oppressed
with savage depredations and militia ser
vice, yet certainly the army may be more
-fit for the great object of an expedition,
See. From my own observations I know
that unremitting indudry has been used to
promote discipline among the troops.
But an argument of another nature, and
which seems to have the greated weight
with the gentlemen, has been often ur
ged, I mean the expence, and the danger
of new taxes. Is it possible that we have
not revenues fufficient for the defence of
the union ? Surely every other claim mud
give way to this. Let it not be said that
a tax for our own defence could not be le
vied ; the people would cheerfully pay
taxes fcr this purpose, though they might
think themselves oppressed by other de
mands that are more amply provided for.
But a new tax is not necessary for that
purpose ; a surplus of exiding revenues are
at ourdifpofal, besides the edimates of the
war. It i» true, we designed to have avail-
Ed ourselves of it to begin the extinguiflr
ment of our debt, though we have been
since told that it is necessary to be applied
otherwise, and we are called upon to raise
a new tax for that purpose, not for the
purpose of procuring peace. However
anxiously I desire to pay off the debt, yet
1 am certain it would be an unwarranta
ble policy to subject the country to deflruc
tion for that purpose ; besides, I believe
the alternative proposed would eventu
ally encreafe the expence.
We have a particular plan in view in or
der to accomplish peace, is that plan exe
cuted ? Is that obje£l obtained ? No.
I believe gentlemen know wc cannot ex
plain fully on this subject, as it involves
confidential communications, and plans not
submitted to public view ; but they fay
that two regiments are fufficient to garri
son the exiiling forts. Surely they know
that Fort Hamilton, Fort Knox, &c. are
not the objects contemplated ; nor would
these I presume be kept for their own
fakes, they cannot defend our territory
nor make it the intercft of the Indians to
be at peace. If we expect to exill as a na
tion we must defend the territory which we
have purchased, which we have fold to o
thers, and which unfortunately for them
we have encouraged others to fettle upon.
In this I presume the committee are a
greed, at lead I hope so ; but it will be
said the difference is about the means.
We are told that the militia are more fit
for this kind of war than an armv ; let
the army keep the forts, and the militia
defend the frontiers where they reside, and
carry on expeditions againll the Indians:
Comparing the militia and {landing army
is to little purpose ; I have known both
the one and the other on some occasions
behave so as to deserve great commenda
tion, and at other times behave very ill;
this depends greatly on circumilances, each
have their particular advantages, and each
may find too much employ ; there are fi
xations and circumstances in which the
militia are undoubtedly belt, and there are
other situations in which a (landing army
have the advantage. But when 1 speak of
militia not mean such ai are called in
classes from their families, and composed
of many that have neither been accullom
ed to the woods, nor arms, and go out
with reluctance, leaving all that is dear to
them behind, and considering the service
as a grievous oppreflion. I know and feel
these things. I have been oftener than
once out with the militia ; I mean a fclec
tion of the militia willing to go, and ex
perienced in the woods, and in mod of the
frontiers such men, or suitable arms do not
now abound ; but farely for services of a
more permanent nature an inlifted army is
more suitable.
But do gentlemen consider the conse
quences of throwing all internal defence,
and diflant expeditions, upon the militia ?
Is it not enough that they already stand as
a piquet guard to their brethren who live
at ease ; that they eat their bread in the
fear of their lives, and are frequently em
bittered with the view of mournful inci
dents ; but that we muff lay a deliberate
plan for encreafing the number of their
fatherlefs children, and childless parents ?
I recoiled, it has been said oftener than
once on this floor on former occasions, and
is still owned by members, that the states
who have frontiers ought to provide for
their own protc&ion, and that the govern
ment of the union ought to assist only in
the last resort ; in short that protection
ought not to be a common cause. Such
highly antifederal sentiments I confefs I
heard with surprise.
There are some members, however, more
generous and promise to vote for a fuffici
entfum of money to pay the the expense.
I believe these members are sincere ; but
do gentlemen contemplate to what issue
the principles would lead ? Do they not
observe that the fate of the government is
deeply involved in the decision ?—Perhaps
I may be alked, did not the states depend
chiefly upon their own exertions for the
defence of the frontiers under the old Con
gress ? Yes, they did, and were better pro
tected than since that period. But let it
be recolleited that at that time the states
had the command of their own rcfources,
and the laying and executing their own
plans: that the Indians were not so for
midably combined ; but that since, the
states had not the power >of retaliating,
nor the means of gratifying with presents,
since the Indians have been solemnly told
to look away from the little fires of the
states, to the great fire of the union : they
have looked upon u» a more formidable and
dangerous foe, and made their arrant
rriT 5 '"' and L Eur °P«" nylons
and emifiaries among them J lare improved
upon the circiimftance, and excited and
aided them in their „ nion and exert!
1 0 be continued.
A FEW COPIES OF THE
transactions
Of the Society in/iituted in the State of
a /-p. f or f^e promotion of
AGRICULTURE, arts, and MANU
FACTURES,
May be had at this Office.
[Price half a dollar.l
Jan. 5- J
CHARLES BITTERS,
No. 120, South Market, near Fourlh-fireet,
has received from New-York, and ma.
nufafhired by Lot Merkel,
i\/r arge and afibrtment of
Muffs and Tippets, Trimmings
and Edgings,
reat Coats, Caps, Mitts and Gloves lined
with Fur, which he will fell,
Wholesale and Retail,
at the lovveft prices.
Nov ' 2 * :aw
NOTICE.
ALt. demands »g.in(l the estate
of Godfrey Wanderer,, late of Eucks County,
deceas d, arc requefled to exhibit their accounts
properly authenticated, in ordrr f.r fettleir.ent—
And tbofe who are indebted to said ertate to mate
immediate payment, to
„ . _ hough, Adtniniftrator.
Bucks County, Dec. 28, , ;92 . 4 Maw
Philadelphia, January 12, 1793.
MATHEW CAREY
Refpeclfully informs the Citizens of the
United States, that the Maps for hi*
intended edition of
Guthrie's Geography
IMPROVED,
Are now engraving— and as soon a> a fufficUnt
number of them are finifh-d, to secure a regular
uppl y during the publication,which will proba
bly be early next Spring, the work will be put
to prels. r
Hereturns his ackno vlejgments to the very
relpectable number of subscribers, who havecome
forward thus early to patronize this arduous un
err2 ing. H e allures chem and the public in
general, that no pains or expence lhall be fpved ia.
sne execution of the work.
Terms cf the Work :
• IT fliai; be publi/hed in 48 weekly num. '
oers, each containing three flieets, or twenty-four
pages, of letter press, in quarto, printed with new
types on fine paper.
11. In the course of the work will be delivered
aO °K t o thirty ,ar?e ma P s » of fame size as those
in the European editions, viz. mod of them fhect
m a PS on 10ft paper.
!'J* Uejides the map! in the Brici/h Edition,
this wort ivHl contain nine er ten Arr.e. ieaSt
Map i, .
111. The price of each number will te a quar
ter dollar, to be paid on delivery,
A'» advance rejuirci.
IV. Subscribers who difapproreof the work,
on the publication of thetiiree firft numbers, are
t> be at liberty to return them, and (hall have
their money repaid.
V. The fubferibers' names fliall be prefixed at
patrons of the undertaking.
*.* Subscriptions received in Philadelphia by
the intended pub'ifher ; in '■Jew-York, by all the
booksellers; in New.Haven, by Mr. Beers: in
Hartford, by Mr. Patten ; in Boston, by MelT.
TbomasanJ Andrews, aaJ by Mr. Weft j ia
Baltimore, by Mr. Rice ; in Richmond, by Mr.
J. Carey ; in Charlertotl, by Mr, W. P. Young,
and by sundry other persons throughout the Uni
ted States. lawtf
W A T C H E S.
ROBERT LESLIE,
CLOCK and WATCH MAKER, No. 167,
Market-fireet.
AFTER returning his sincere thanks to hi«
friends, and the public in general, (or the
great encouragement he has experienced since the
commencement of his bulinefs in this city, takes
this oppor-unity of informing them in con
ference of his intention of going to London in A
pril next, he is felling oti, at very reduced prices,
his Hock in trade, confuting of a very large anl
general assortment of enamelled and plain gold,
gilt and silver, capr, and capt and i"w^lled
WARRANTED WATCHES,
Mod of which are of the latest importation and
newest falhion, —Alio a variety of the hijheft ti
nilhed cut steel, ar.d gilt, ladies and g-ntlemen*e
Watch Chains, Seals, Keys, and Trinkets, toge
ther with a few Gold Chains, Key« and Seals."
Philad. Jan. 16, 1793.
For sale, at the printing office, a few copies •
of the Rrjl •volume of the National Gazette.
PRINTED BY
C HIL D S AND SWA IN E,
A.T THEIR OFFICE NOl 209, HICH-STASET
HIA» FIFTH-STRSST,
PHILADELPHIA.