Numb. 55 of Vol. lI.J WEDN ESDAY, May 8, 1793-
For the National Gazette.
New-Castle County, May if!, 1793.
Mi. Freneau,
•yTTREE juries, a {truck, a traverse, and
a grand jury, amounting to near on?
hundred tree and independent citizens,
\vere fumraoned to sttend the federal cir
cuit court at New-Caflle. for the diftricl
of Delaware, at ten o'clock on Monday
!aft ; when. to their astonishment and cha
grin, a quorum of judges did not appear to
hold a court. The citizens that were
summoned from their various occupation',
waited till five o'clock, when molt of them
returned home : Mary of them had rode
a confiderafile distance, and as 110 court
was called whilst they flayed, they were
not paid for their attendance ; their lof
of time was of much more con.sequence
than any thing they could have expected,
but the infnlt offered to their feelings was
felt by every one. Mr. Iredell, who was
to have attended, certainly can have no
proper exeufe—he came a? far as Wil
mington on that day ; had he come fofar
the day before, he might readily have got
to New-Crtftle in time, as many gentle
man went from thence on Monday morn
ing. Ar a diftricl court in February la(t,
Mr. Wilson did not get there to open court
till three o'clock, when the jury were
summoned to attend at ten.
Moll people know that these gentlemen
get very handsome salaries; and they
know also from theJiveat of whose brovit it
comes ; they know more than this, they
know whose right it is to call them to ac
count fcr their mal-praflices. The go
"ernment will be found expensive enough
under the mo ft oecortomical admimftration
—but to lavish the time and property of
the citizens linneceflarily, is what the)
ca'inot, nor will not submit to.
.4 Citizen of Ne-w-Ca/ile Count v.
To the EDITOR of the NATIONAL
GAZETTE.
The following is a translation of an extrail
from Mr. Bri'fibt (Warville's) Nouveai
Voyage dans la EtatsUnis cle I Ameriqui
Septentrioiiale, fait en 17S8, which von
are requeued to publish, together with a
few fliort remarks upon it.—lt begins
at p. 240, of his 2d. vol.
Yours,
X.
TT/HEN the Engliih had evacuated
the town, ami the l'refbyteriar
party was rendered master, persecution ra
ged with renewed violence against the
Quakers —two of them were condemnec
to be hung tinder pretence of high-treason.
As the English translator of the Travels oi
Mr. Chatelleux has exceedingly difguifec
snd misrepresented this fail, and has made
use of it, in order to prove that the Qua
kers had betrayed the cause of the Ameri
cans, it is of importance that it be explain
ed, and I can pledge inyfelf for the truth
of the fails which I am about to mention.
" John Roberts was a respectable millei
in the neighbourhood of Philadelphia, dis
tinguished by tiie openness of his charaitej
and the reilitude of his conduit : He fnp
ported with si: mnefs, the party which Dr
Franklin had raised againli the Presbyteri
ans, and that was the circumstance with
out doubt, that occasioned the implacable
hatred of the latter against him, which fi
nally brought on his ruin.
" When the war oflndepcndence broke
out, he concealed his sentiments ; how
ever. he remained neuter, but when the
Engliih were mailers of Philadelphia he
went there, and btified himfelf in relieving
the neceflitous. —Roberts was afterward;
accused with having guided the English tc
a place where some insurgents were hid :
He acknowledged it, but he contended,
that he had been forced so to do, by an ar
med party of Engliih, who threatened hiir
in cafe of refufal. He proved another fail
which (hewed his innocence—the paper!
and records of Congress, were at this time
hid in his mill, where the English had 1
guard, and he never betrayed the secret.
" Abraham Carlille was a carpenter,
of Philadelphia, not so generally knowi;
as Roberts, who, against the advice of his
brethren, accepted the place of luperin
tendant of the entry to Philadelphia on
the north, thinking it only a civil and not
a military appointment : This was the
crime of which he was accused : But this
accufationis but a continuation of injustice,
the jury was composed partly of the ene-
By P. FRENE AU: Publijhtd Wednesdays And Saturdays, at Three Dollars p-r annum.
mieuoftlicfe two Quakers. There was
then at Philadelphia, a committee of en
quiry, whose bulinefs it was to discover
the enemies of the new government: —
This committee, particularly designed a
gainst the two Quakers, furnifhed at the
fame time the aecufations to the attorney
general, and the persons who composed
ihejury. Among the latter, two only de
clai ed Carlisle and Roberts guilty—theten
others \\erefor acquitting them, the two
succeeded in bringing the ten over to their
opinion, by promoting that a pardon would
be granted, and by urging the necefiity of
the appearance of an example—in conse
quence, a petition was presented to the ex
ecutive council, who agreed to allow the
pardon. At this jnnfture Reed was elected
president. He was the most cruel enemy
of the Quakers —he hurried into an ac
ceptsnce of the appointment to prevent
the pardon, and he succeeded. Reed was
an ambitious man—he had the foul of
Cromv ell—he afi'umed the appearance of
a warm republican, because he hoped one
day to seize the fnpreme power. I have
been informed that he died tormented by
the flings of his conscience, for having or
dered this execution."
Remarks.
We have had much noise about libels :—
But the arrow which flieth by day, is much
left to be dreaded than the secret slabs to
reputation, which are given in the dark.
In the preflnt inllance, a Frenchman, of
some eminence, has his mind polft.ned in
private conversation, by the moll inju
rious and palpable falfehcods, which, on
his return to France, he publifl es to all
Europe, and pledges hinifelf for the truth
o! the fails he mentions. How it was pof
lible for Brillbt to vouch for facts, to which
he was not himfelf a witness, it is not easy
to conceive. As he appears never to have
seen this country, till the year 1)88, the
story, of what is pretended to have hap
pened ten years before that period, ninft
be derived from the information of some
other person ; probably the fume person,
whom we find him so often quoting as his
oracle, in different paflages of his book,
particularly as to the philolophical notions,
that the genius of the Philadelphians is de
rived from the rapidity of the river Dela
ware : and that the longevity of a particu
lar religious society, is acquired, by their
regularity in putting on woollen stockings
every year, upon the fifteenth day of Sep
tember.
As to the passage now before us, it is
neither my inclination to bring Roberts
and Carlisle to a frefii trial ; nor is it ne
cefl'ary to refute the calumnies, which have
been whispered againfl the Presbyterians
of this country. With refpe£l to the
former, I (hall only fay, that none but a
flranger could have been imposed upon by
such notoriousfalfehoods. For example;
a Pennfylvanian would hardly have been
made to believe, that Roberts and Car
lisle were tried by the fame jury; nor
would any American, or even an Lnglifli
man, be persuaded, that two jurymen
could gull their ten brethren into a belief,
that they two had the power of procuring
pardons; especially, if he rciiefied. ase
very 'American, and mod Engliflnnen
would, that the twelve jurymen, on each
of the trials, were feleiUd by the prifeners
from a long lift of citizens returned by the
flierifF. V ith respect to the " Prelbyteri
an party," as it is called, it has ilrength
enough to treat such idle tales with con
tempt ; especially if the " Presbyterian
party'' is supposed to include the whole
body of thef?, who were " rendered mas
ters" by the evacuation of Philadelphia.
But as to Mr. Reed—that martyr to se
cret calumny—it is fhameful that his cha
racter fliould be still persecuted by the fame
lying spirit,. which long since hunted him
to his grave; and that no friend to truth
{hould vindicate his memory. Instead ol
his hurrying to aflume the place of Presi
dent, for the purpose of preventing the
pardon of Roberts and Carlisle, the fa£t i
(and IJpeck from records) that theft
two men were executed on the 4th day oi
November 1778; that altho' Mr. Recti
was elected a member of the supreme ex
ecutive council, at the general eleflion,
the 13th of October, 1778, yet he did not
take his feat, as a member of the council,
till the 24th of November; twenty days
after their execution. That he was v.na
nimoufiy chosen president, being then the
most popular man in the (late ; and took
the chair, as president, the Ift day of De
cember following. Thatfo far trom be
ing " tormented by the flings of conscience
for having ordered this execution," he had
never given any orders on the occasion—
nor had he any authority to give orders for
the execution of any man, or to vote, for
or against his execution or pardon, till
ome time after Roberts and Carlisle were
in their graves. Thus tar I amfuppoited
by authentic documents :—but I will ven
ture to add. that tbofe who attended him
on his death-bed will teftify, that he ex
prell". d no uuealinefs on this fubjeft : but
chat his complaints were of a *ery diffe
ren nature.
Philadelphia, May 4, 1793-
To the EDITOR of the NATIONAL
GAZETTE.
S I R,
T'SUGGESTED it as a probable thing,
that if the combined despots of Europe
fncceeded in destroying French liberty,
there would be nothing to prevent Great-
Britain from renewing her claims to this
country, and that in this she would be aid
ed by the confederated powers. That
Great-Britain still manifefts hostility to the
United States, her retention 01' the western
ports, in defiance of treaty, in defiance ol
every engagement which ought to be sa
cred among nations, w ill fufficientlv sub
stantiate. That the savages have been ar
med by the Britons at those ports, and bj
means of the supplies obtained there, have
dipped their hands in the blood of our citi
zens, are facts too notorious tobe quertion
td. This, fbrely is hostility of the mod
dreadful kind, and it of a piece with the
genen'l condnft ofßritons to the United
States (ince the eftablilliment of their inde
pendence. Their fouls fecm to be cast in
a lavage mould, for savages have not fnr
pafled them in barbarity ; nay, it is a quef
tton if they have equalled thom—for 1 dc
riot recuileft an instance in which they have
riiffered their prisoners to perish witl
grass in their Mouths, as the Ame
rican prisoners did in the jail of Philadel
phia, when in poffeflionof the Britifharmy.
The ferocity which marked the progress ol
the Britifti arms during the late war, the
retention of the wertern ports in open vio
lation ot treaty, indicate a serious enmitj
to our country. It has been a matter oj
surprize to me that our government have
never taken means to obtain the fulfilment
of the treaty of peace. Were those port;
in poffeflion of the United States, the diffi
culty of being supplied with arms and am
munition, would give us a greater fecuritj
against the savages, than a thousand trea
ties with them ; but whether this is desi
rable, as itwoiild remove the pretext fir c
(iandt'g army, seems to puzzle some men
in authority. It is a question of some mo
ment to the freemen of this country, and
I will ask it, why are not tbojepofis Jnrren
tiered r Has the govertimei.t taken an;
flepsto obtain a Jurrender of them ? There
appears to have been either pufillanimit)
or design in this business, and it is full t'me
it fliould be unfolded. Of tranfaflions fe
important freemen (hould net be ignorant.
If the paper men of the United States have
been the means of preventing efieftive step;
being taken for this purpose. it is
high rime the plot fliould be unravelled.—
The lives and property of our citizens on
the frontiers ought no longer to be com
mitted to the uncertain tenure of treaties
either with savages or with Britons. This
is the moment to demand a fulfilment of
the treaty of the Britilh court —this is the
moment to fciutinize the c and lift of our
government. Hostility to France, the
nurje, the guardian of our liberty, is {talk
ing abroad ; Britilh policy is gaining ground
among us; it is incumbent on every man
who is interested in the equality and pros
perity of his country to be upon his guard,
for vigilance is among the best centinels of
freedom. There appears to be a combi
nation, less formidable, but equally zea
lous as the well-born in Europe, against
the equality of the United States. Men in
power, and the mujhrooms of the Funding
System, have their delicate nerves grated
by the found of equality—tobe placed upon
a footing with every vulgar creature is de
grading to their dignity, and " contrary to
the order of t,attire." They lair,cut the
downfall of aristocracy, and endeavour to
lefTen the influence of repiibl'.canifm by pic
turing the miieries of equality with the a
nimation of romance. Ideal fnperiority
lorrtfponds not with the vill.es ot our pa
per gentry- they sigh, they languish for (he
ilarandthe coronet, and the war which
France has made upon thole bauliies caufcs
[Total No. 159.]
their abhorrence of the revolution. They
wi(h to draw the cords of connexion as
tight as pollible between the corrupt mo
narchy of Great-Britain and the United
States, in hopes that British influence will
produce the fame degeneracy upon the
mass of the people, which was effected up
on one of the quondam patriots of ttie
revolution. But such efforts are vain, for
the conduct of the citizens of Philadelphia
on the arrival of the French frigate, has gi
ven me the pleasing conviction, that gr.iti
tude glows in the bosom-; of the people,
and that the fair geddefs of L.berty will flill
continue to be protefled from prostitution
by cementing our connection with there
publicans of France, and an abhorrence of*
:very corrupt fjftem engendered in the
British government.
AN OLD SOLDIP.R.
May 4, 1793.
Extralts from French Papers, printed a'
Paris.
National Convention, Feb. 3, 1793.
" The committee of general defence
have proposed a decree to be adopted,
which will at once prove the Republic to be
,i faithful and generous ally, as well as a
molt determined enemy to all that wan
tonly affront her. The draft of the
is as follows:—" T. All the ports of the
French Colonies are opened to vcffels be
longing to the United States of America.
2. All articles of merchandize exported or
imported by American veffcls, shall not
pay either at their entry or clearing, at a
ny port of France or her colonies, higher*
1 utiesthan those impofedupon French ves
sels. 3. The executive council, is empow
ered to take all convenient measures that
the kingdoms and dates with whom the re
public is at war, may not profit from the
savours granted to a friendly power. 4-
The executive council {ball negociate with
the United States of America, to obiaiil (
in favour of the French merchants, a re
duction of duties similar to what shall be
granted to the American merchants by ths
present decree ; that by this means we may
ltrengthen the ties of gratitude and friend"
fliip of both parties."
It has already been decreed, that all the
re-enlisted soldiery who have been in ser
vice ten years, should have a yearly penficn
granted them at their discharge. I l has since
been decreed, that those who may not
have served ten years, but shall continue
during the war, shall leceive, at their dis
charge, under the title of gratification, (o
livresfor one campaign, 150 for two, aco
for three, and 300 for four. Penfionsanri
gratifications to the military have already
taken to the value of 400 millions of livres
from the property of the emigrants. The
pension due to any one of the military, v. ha
;s killed in battle, or died fYon wounds
there received, reverts to his widow (and
children under 16 years of age.)
The ariflocrats o! Basil, in SwitSefland,
have made life of the execution of l oins
Capet, to embitter the minds of the Swift
againlt France. Injury as.d inftilt to the
French has been the confequencc. rind to
such a degree, that the conin and. Nt of the
place has forbidden all Fremh military
men to come into the city under the se
verest ,penalties. This prohibition will
prevent vast films o? money from circula
ting among them, and w ill eonfcqutntly o
pen the eyes of the people (o the fchermrs
of a set of scoundrels who find it their in
terefl to raise a prejudice ag-amfl the infant
republic, ana dif.eminaie lies :vd *:dfe
hoods without end. They addref, them
fe:ves to the hopes and fe rs ot the Bafili
ans by holding up a rupture with France,
and try topeifuade them that if their town
should fuller from our artillery, ihev will
be amply indemnified by the helvetic body.
These fame ariflocrats, however, would
be the ]ast in the world to m ike any facri
fice ; and those who have been molt active
in spiriting up the populace against us. have
secretly removed their molt valuable ef
fects into the moil irterior recesses of the
country. The French ambafiador to Switz
erland will soon be acknowledged. Zu
rich will take the lead ; and even P.aiil
will indirectly acknowledge him without
waiting for the council of Eleven. The
democratic cantons will follow their ex
ample; and opposition may only be locked
for from Berne, Soli u re and I'ribcurg. As
to the military movements in Switzer.and
they are wholly occafiontd l.y the fear of
tiie cantons, kit tht impel i .1 force* thould
pass through Switzerland 10 attack France.
The Swils by no means wifhfiiccefo toAtif-Jria, hut are rather terrified at the immense
combination against us, which they sup
pose we cannot withstand. This is the
gre it iocret of cheir irresolute ehaviour—.
they love the French, but are'afraid a de
claration of their fantimsnts would be the
ru. 1 of their government,.
Hag-it, fe'o. 12. Their liig'i mighti
nelfes hive lent a manifesto to eac i of* the
seven provinces, i 1 wuic'.i they complain
in high terms of the French declaration ot
war again.t them, arid call ir folly and trea
son. The declaration of war againlt the
Stadtholder is indeed unprecedented, but
in the revolucio i of France precedent has
has bee i set a fide, as the eng ne of k laves,
file ilfiult of Gemmappe i also u iprece
den:ed. The regenerated French inces
santly pu fit.' their m.iin object: Tliey
know very well that their high mightines
ses are mere puppets, the wires o.'" which
are moved by the court of St. James's,
through the Stadtholder's fingers. I*he
French will n amused with puppets,
but w 11 address themselves to the two
great puppet-marten. Our mijjion into
Holland is something novel ; but it is also a
new thing, that twenty-five millions of
men Mould constitute theitjfelves into a
Republic, purely democratic. Their high
mightLnefTes deny any concern in forging
our alignats and from 'his trait, we may
know how to believe them in other things.
M. Hope, thegreat engine of the financi
cal counter revolution, begins to tremble.
If the French Ihould reach Amlterdam how
many traitors will they have topunilh !
J a*n, 1" eb, 21. The English captains oj
veflels that have entered the p >rts of the
Republic with cargoes of grain on our ac
count, have remon trated against the em
bargo laid on their vefTels by order of the
miiiiiVer of in iri.ie. Thei*-' demand beino
founded on justice and the rights of nati
ons, will no doubt be complied with, as
soon as the executive council shall have gi
ven in their lifts.
Feb. 22. Whatever the English mini
sterial papers may fay (and indeed all their
pipers are at this time fold to the govern
me k) scarcely a person in the three king
doms lias fitted out a privateer. Dover,
Rye, Hlifting;, F.aftbourne. and all along'
that coat is lined u ith government cutters,
hitherto in the custom house service, but
of no u r e in that way lince the war began.
In the preceding F.nglilh wars their citizens
were never so inaftiveas now, in refpea to
privateering ; the realon is plain, people
are convinced that in a marine war with
France there beinglittle else to be gnt than
hard knocks, they do not much wish to
ru ? the risque.
foreign advices.
[From English Papers.J
London, March 15.
General Cuftine has returned from Pa
ris to his command at Mentz, and General
Servan is come to Paris to concert mea
sures for the southern campaign. An em
bargo is laid in the French ports on all Spa
ni!h vefiels, as also those from Hamburg,
Bremen, and Lubeck. Theduke of Brunf'
wick has rel ipfed into his late fever, and
is so ill as to leave little hopes of his reco
very.
On t le 2 ift of January, the French plan
ted the tree of liberty in the new Republi
can amb.tfiador's court-yard in Conllanti
nop'ie ; notwithstanding eveiy effort of the
ministers of the powers against France tc
prevent it, the Turkilh government per
mitted the ceremony to take plaie. Gouf
fier the late ambaflador from Louir the
X\ Ith, had let out by land for Germany,
after receiving aprefent of io.cco piastre:
from the I nrks to delray his expellees.
The important fortrefsol Choczim ha:
been restored by theAuftrianstotl ie Turks
The Pacha took pofi'eflion ot it on or a
bout the 18th of February. TheAuftri
ans were to depart on the 28th.
Bournonville has been to the conventior
to relign his place as minister at war, anc
he begged to be allowed to return to the
army, with which he lays he has fought
172 battles. T ho' Danton opposed the ac
ceptation of his resignation, it was receiv
ed, but he was ordered to remain at Paris
till his accounts were examined.
March 26. All the accounts by the
Dutch mail of yeftcrday, agree in (fating,
that the conflict between the Auftrians and
Frcnch on the 18th inft. was obstinate and
bloody, and that great bravery and milita
ry lkill were manifefted by both armies.
By Lord Auckland's dispatches, it ap
pears that the French on the Bth attacked
the Auftrians at Nerwind, nearTirlemont.
That they were reptilfed in the centre and
on the right. That they made some ini
preffion 0:1 the left wing in the afternoon,
when general Clairfayt brought into action
twelve thousand horse, who decided the
victory. The French for some time mrde
good their retreat, but being at length
broke, the .Aulirian cavalry made very
great havock amongst them, and killed
between fix and seven thousand. They
continued the Slaughter until the approach
of night, when the courier was dispatched
with the above news, who reports, that
the French loft 34 pieces of cannon.
The expi-efs sent to Carleton Hotife, ir
similar to the above, except that the Joss
Of the French is stated at 2060 nun and
p cces of Cannon.
Lette.s Iro. BrulTels (late that Dumon.
rier attacked the combined army at fev- >
in th- morning, between Tirlereont and lit.
! ion. riie battle was fought with vari
ons fuccefb till the afternoon, when the ar
dour and intrepidity of the French troops
furnfoll nted every obstacle.—Valence at
their head, they charged the left wing ot
the enemy so iurioufly, that it was soon
broke, and gave way in every direction.
Tiie pnrfnit was vigorous for some time,
and great carnage ensued. At that mo
ment when t!ie combined army w as threa
tened with a compleat defeat, Gener. I
01 lirf'ayt flunked the pursers with an'im
menfe bady of horse, and as they had pu(h
ed forward beyond the protection of the
artillery, they were left exposed to the Su
perior power of the cavalry. General Va
lence alternately retreated, and advanced
till ha was killed by a mnjket ball. The
conte.l was obllinately maintained until it
was put an end to by the darkness of the
night, and both lides claimed the victory.
On Friday lad, the 23d inft the Aultrl
ans, in spite of every manoeuvre of the
French to avoid the confliit, forced them
to a general aaion. The battle was bloo
dy, but the success of the Anftrians was
decisive—they gained a complete vifiory ;
and to use the words of a private letter the
French were, literally, cut to pieces. '
I he ailion took place near Fouvain—
According to the government dispatches,
the French loft i->,oco men, in killed,
wounded, and prisoners. Among the lat
ter is General Valence. Other accounts
state, that General 1 Himonrier only elcpped
the fame fate by linking off the arm of an
Anftrian soldier who had laid hold of him
Paris, March 11. The late checks of our
armies in the F>elgic provinces have been
n.K.ft altonifhingly magnified, so astofpread
alarm and dismay thro' the capital, and the
si lends of anarchy and counter-revolution
seized the occasion to cry out treafen against
ill they wished to def.roy. Much of the
alarm seems to have been occasioned by a
hally proclamation issued by the mayor,
ordering the citizens to jrmi, and repre
fent'iWg the situation of our armies in a 1110 ft
chfeouraging point of view, that they w ere
totally dispersed, the enemy in full march
[or I ranee, £ c Diftm bailees continued
"everal days, but without any fatal confe
rences, notwithstanding the parties of
Slarat and Robespierre w ere for maflacre
ng all those they called intriguers. I'e
tion's life was in danger; being pnrfued
jy 200 ruffians. Bournonvill e was insulted
»nd threatened.
Hague, March 22. Intelligence has been
"eceivert here of a victory obtained by the
P. of Saxe Coburg over the French'at
Neeiianden, near Tiflen.ont, which was
preceded by a long and ftiarp aflion.
On the 15th inft. the advanced ports of
he Imperial army had been beat bick from
rirlemont. which was re-taken by the en
amy ;on the 16th Dumourier attempted to
jafs the left wing of the Imperial army ;
311 the 1 7th there was a change of polition,
and a brilk cannonade; on the 18th at 7 in
:he morning, M. Dumourier attacked the
rentre ol the Imperial army, but was re
>ulfed ;■ he was also repulled by the Impe
•ial left w ing, but about three in the after
-10011 M. Dumourier's right w ing penetra
ted through the Imperial left wing whose
-avalry was prevented from manoeuvring,
ths ground being interfered by ditches.'
The corps of reserve, commanded by M.
Llairfayt, then dtcided the v iftory. The
French retired in good order, untill fix o'
:lock in the evening, w hen the Imperial
light cavalry put them to the route.
The number killed and wounded is va
riously reported—lt is said that the French
have 101 l 33 pieces of caanon.
The fubfeqnent ADDRESS is copied from
the Knoxville Gazette of April 6.
To the citizens of the territory Souh of
Ohio-, in the United States nf America. '
A T a t.me when danger is hanging over
our heads on every iide, it is l'ortunate
lor the good citizens of this territory tha
hey have the advantage of a free pref,*
• hrough which they may receive info: illa
tion of what happens, communicate thei:
deas, and prepare each other to meet
with firmnefs every possible Ihock.
Indeed mankind often fubjeft their.felvc
to the dominion of fear and imprudence
through inconsiderate decision, on firft
new; and the r: fn ai> of one man proves
Harming and fatal to many.- nay frc
qnently to the whole society. *'
I w ill not flatter you, on the present oc
casion, with a cafe better than it is in re
ality ; lor I have little doubt of the ho
stile intentions of the Creeks, some tow iv
nl the Cherokees, and the northern Indi
ans ; and from the early flrokes made on
this frontier and on Cumberland, we 11m
believe that they purpose to render the
"Pproaching fummcr as bloody as poflible.
1 w ill go farther ; and will admit (lor ar
gument fake) that Congress will not only
continue their prohibition on offenfive war
fare, lut we will suppose that they will
pofitn ely retufe afliftance, and perhaps
use authoritative measures to punilh the fie
who fliall ii.si nt the injuria of the fai':*jx«
enemy. What then ?—Why ? your cafe
:s not one hundredth psrt so dfcfpeYate a
a very fimiiar cafe w is in 1776 —but ]
will compare the cases fairly . For the in
formation of citizens v.ho have migrated
hither since that period, I will endeavour
to recite the ciru mirances ::r:d hitlory 0;
those times, as nearly as recollection will
permit; and will try to prove, that it i?
in our power toproteft ourselves, without
offending the conllitutional laws of Con
gress, or failing for want oftheir afliflance,
it they will a£t f<» unwisely as to r.cglccf a
people whose very independent political
polition flrikes the balance of reciprocit)
in their favour.
In June 1776, jnfl before that ever me
morable fourth of July, on which Ameri
can independence dates its era, the then
frontier boundary line being the line called
Done lion's line, on the part of Virginia ;
and the Apalachian mountain on the pari
oi North Carolina—when the trees vert
cloathed with verdure and the afpech oi
Indian outrage was much like the prcfem
appearance ; the people had advance!
over these boundaries as far as Big Creel
on the north lide of Holflon river, and to
Big Lime-don, 011 tile south lide of Kolfton
but were under the authority of no legal
or effective government.
Add to this,there were a number of peo
ple called Regulators, who had (led to tin
extreme frontier for fafetv, after their bat
tie against governor Tnon, at Alamance
in which they had got fttch a fcotirging, a:
to deter them from any further cffeu'fivi
measures against the Britifli or their allies
and were then actually about joining the
Cherokees against the Americans. T<
make the matter It ill worse, while the In
dians were threatening an irivalion, the
tiiiei flock of powder was but fix pounds
in the hands of a fojourner.
In thisdilemma, the \ irginians gave or
ders for all men to retire within the afore
faid line,or tilt? would be treated as out
laws.
The people on the northern fide of Hol
flon, obeyed this mandate; but, influencec
in a great degree by the perfualions oi
William Cocke, F.fq. (the present attorney
general) they fortified themltlves at Amo:
Heaton's, now Sullivan old court house;
2.; d those on Wautauga and Noiichuckj
ported about thirty volunteers under Cap
tain (now General) Jame< Rcbeitjon, jull
above the mouth of 13ig Limeilon, where
Mr. Gillefpie lives.
Shortly after this party took poll, am
before they had completed theirfort,(callec
lortLee) four of the traders made theii
clcape lrom the Cherokee nation, and ap
prised them of the immediate march o!
about fix hundred Cherokees, Jantl a IV w
Creeks, who were detuned against theft
iettlements. The inhabitants immediate
ly took the alarm, and inilead of flock: 1:2
to the frontier barrier, in flrong and opcii
ground, and thereby covering their coun
try, those of Nolichutky haliiiy fled, carry
ing ofi their Jive flock and provisions, leav
ing about fifteen of the volunteers at the
frontier post, to make the belt ihift in their
power.
i result of this precipitate retreal
was this .* that the few who were deter
mined to oppose the enemy in defence ol
tnat quarter, were joined by as nianv in the
rear of this fcan,per, as had not time te
get fafe off: and were thus compelled tc
fortify near the Sycamore Shoals, on
\\ autauga, on much weaker ground thai
that which they had evacuated ; cut oil
from alii fiance and rcft>urees','bymountains
and defiles, which were at that day nlmol!
impenetrable, and from every pofHbllity oi
information, save through their own vigi
lance. Ihe parry at Heaton's fort were
nearly in a similar filiation; and thiis theft
two ports, under every additional disad
vantage of the British war, and weak as
new fettlementscould be, had to stand the
brunt with an enemy whose numbers,
! owers, refourees, ami Kuropeaii patron
age was at leal! equal to any that
we have to dread at this day ; and on the
southern and wellern fide'of Doneifon';
line aforefaid, we were obliged to rely 0:1
the following numbers for defence," a
gainst both southern and northern Indians,
as near as 1 can recollect.
'At Wautauga, men,'boys and ne
groes, fit to bear arms, but not w ell
armed, under Capt. James Robtrt
fon. -
At Boonfborough, under Daniel
Boon. - - . ~
At Harrodfburgh, under Cant.
Harrod. - . ' ' -,
In all, 124
Yet the country vjns well 'defer: ded ! Art
A range as it may appear, this territ am
the llate of Kentucky both owe their pre
sent conference to this hardt'ul of me.) :
for, in less than two years after, the Ten
nelle and Iventucky countries contaipcc
no less than fifty seven fori. : thoi idi it
very probable, that if this fniall p rty h:;d
given way. the peoph? w. t a have general
ly (ifnot all) fled to thecaflern lide of the
Allegany mountain.
Now', if we cor.trr.ft the above n'tfure
with our situation at this day, the comrar
rifon will scarce bear a ref!?t ion ! !>.;■
t'f, I apprehend that our enemies are re:
■Here numerous than formerly— Secondly
we have do Britifil war to encounter.—
jdly, we have a countr/ one hundred
miles farther advanced tc the westward
bicker fettled, wider extended, more le
• el, and more fertile, in which wehave an
inland navigation leading to our frontier
j>olU through well cultivated farms, on ri
sers who!'e waters rim equal, if not fupe
' ior, to any in the world, and glide gently
down into our enemy's domains, on the
1 ennefiee. We have Itrong settlements
on the Cumberland river, under the fame
officer who flood thefform in 1776.
The Kentucky country, according to the
eturns made two years ago, contained 73,
"11 fouls—Virginia then contained 747,
1 10, and North Carolina 393,750, all of
whom are immediately interefled in our
rofperity and defence. Add to this, we
re fettled so near to our enemies that
they can do nothing without our know
ledge of their meali res ; and to facilitate
nut- information, the continual diflention
;:mong their.selves thro' the interpolation
■f the prudent men in their own coun
try (who would willingly advise them bet
ter than to bring on the annihilation of
beirpeople, by listening to the insidious
artifices of Spanifli traders, or other Eu
opean speculators) will always fuund the
larm bell in time for our pr«paration.
Let us enquire \\ list then is wanting ?—
Money ? —No ! The i24m£n who dtfei •
led this country in 1776, hadlittie of th.t
ianeful article, God knows ! but their
alety was, that they cared for it less, and
.1 trre consequently more free than at any
)ther period.
Is it the affiflance of Congress, then,
hat we want to protest us? No. We
null in ail events protect onrfelves, and
(lift them into the bargain! And so we
an do, either with or without their reci
rocity.— Is courage wanting ? Why no!
•lit I w ill tell you w hat is wanting.—
our things that were pofieflt-d and txer
ifed in a greater degree By the people of
177.6 than by the people of 1792. They
tre thefpirit of independence; the-love
if virtue ; unanimity of pursuit i'l acqui
ing the means of social fuWiftence j and
'yjtem in our common defence.
With regard to the firfl, I will briefly
ibferve, that 110 people are independent
a ho are too indolent to cultivate their in
ternal resources ; and lie who is in the ha
jit of adoring money, or cringing to the
ools of foreign commerce, is the hireling
lave of distant tyranny, and merits not the
lame of Freeman.
Secondly—l conceive the love of virtue
:o be our best security for the equal enjoy
nent of every social advantage. It will
"each us the golden rule, " to do unto others
is we would they should do unto us." It
ill ft t alide all prejudices and distinction
)f colour, and inftrutt us to parry the
rtrokea of Indian reftntment and outrage,
)y doing them every possible justice of- our
nvn free will ; by setting them examples
worthy their imitation. We shall then
/tew them as the creatures of the fame
creator, and fee that he hath made room
?nough for them and us, to provide the
needful accommodations for cur paflage
through this fleeting cxiflence. It will
each every man to be contented with the
u(i acquisitions of his own induflry, and
r.form him that where he takes more from
111 individual or from a separate people, i£
sa departure from,virtue in himfelf; an/*
hough frequently covered by plausible
pretexts, is nevertheless a robbery com
mitted again!! mankind.
Thirdly—Unanimity of pursuit, to ac
quire the means of social fubliftence, is, in
my opinion, rot only necefiary for our
'afety, against the common foe, inasmuch
is every variance begets discord, and thus
weakens the common Orength ; but in the
ighr which at present I mean to view it,
s indispensably a moral as well as a civil
iuty : For as God created man in his own
image, and we nniverfally acknowledge
hat image, for whefe will and pleasure
ye were made, to be the efl'ence ofperfec
ion ; one moment's retrofpe£tion w ill con
vince us, that we ought in all things to ap
iroach as near as possible to the harmony
>f that will which he has emphatically cx
ireffed, " Let us make man in our oiv'i
: >r>age, u and diat we Ought, in humble
mitation of the all wife example of perfett
irder and harmony which is set before us,
to live up to the great end of our existence
:n every possible degree, by viewing all
mankind as our brothers, unaniinoufly
aiding the general pursuit of universal hap
"inefs, and procuring to each other the ef
'ential comforts of social cxiftence.
Lastly— As to system in our common de
ence. I will here take a retroview of the
general 'endlift ofthe frontier, on sudden
alarms ; and trace, if polfible, into the ra
< l.cal causes, why we fufifer Inch frequent
.'offes of wealth and blood for certainly
there mull be either a preternatural rea
son, or some great oversight on our fide,
< ting, that we belie\e otirfelves to be
men of superior com age ; and yet, while
we counted noses it: this territory two
• ears ago, to the nt of 36,000 fouls,
and five companies of militia omitted.
: gainst the e:u mie's p or paltry thousand
warriors at moil, we ;-nerally come off
no more than fetond heft.
[?"::■ remaih &<i in cur next-JP H ILADEL P H I A.
Wednesday, Mat 8.
Ob Thnrfday nigh: lad arrived at New-
York, the liiip Favorite, in 23 days from
Galway, welt of Ireland. By this veflel a
London paper (The Star) was received, oi
the 28th of March, and the Connaught
Journal of April IIV. The intelligence by
the Favorite is, in brief, as follows:—That
on the morning of the 28th of March, dis
patches were received in London from the
Britilh amb.iflador at the Hague, dated the
26th, which were entirely lilent refpe&ing
the action said to have happened between
the Aullrian and French fortes on the 18th,
but on the contrary, that Duniotirier w >
in full force between Louvain and Brufiels
—thai: the French had evacuated Oitend.
proceeding from thence to Dunkirk bv
water. That a counter-revolution had
been effected at Paris ; the queen and royal
family released, the convention diflolved,
and that the queen was appointed regent
till monsieur could arrive—That on this
occasion upwards of thirty thousand people
loir their lives—All this, however, was
mere report in London, & the authenticity
of tne accounts much doubted (ex
cept the evacuation of Oitend) especially as
Lord Auckland's letters mentioned not a
syllable of the kind. On the 2d of March
his impel 'sal majefly acknowledged mon
sieur regent of France. That Gen. Dam
pierre died of his wounds, a prifo.ier to the
Aultrians, on the 7th of March ; and that
tiie late failures in Englano are computet
at twelve millions sterling.
We learn from French Hifjsaniola, that
the internal troubles of that illand h :ve
nearly subsided, the negroes being either
reduced, come in voluntarily to their 1. af
ters, or retired to inaccefiible mountains.
On the 4th of April there were twofeventy
four gun ships, and four Irigates in Cape
Francois harbour.
In coiifequence of gross and unprovoked
outrages committed by certain Englilh fai
lars on a French naval officer, and others in
Charfelton, (S. C.) the police of that city
iifued a notice the 16th April, 011 complaint
of the French Consul, requeuing all mas
ters of veflels, particularly the British, to
keeo their sailors on board tneir veflels in
the evenings. When out lait accounts left
Charleston, it was next to certain that a
continuance in fucli indolent attempts would
provoke several retaliations from the inju
red party, who at lealt looked for civil
iifagein an American port, and not wanton
infuits from the desperate and envenomed
ruffians of a foreign nation. In future all
French officers and fcamen were to be arm
ed day and night with pistols and other
weapons to repel every afl'ault of the kind.
M. Genet set out from Charleston for
this city with, his suite, on the 19th of April
in the afternoon. Previous to his depar
ture, M. Genet gave oiders respecting the
importation of a couliderable quantity of
provisions, &c. for the life of the army and
navy of the French republic.
Several armed veflels had been fitted out
at Charleston by French fubjeflsv. ith French
coinmiffions. The reports do not appear
to be true that governor Moultrie had or
dered all houses of rendezvous for the
French service to be flint up, in order to
prevent the out-lit of privateers from
Charleston. On the contrary, no such
houses had been flint up, and the governor,
as far as wc csn learn, had neither exer
cife<' his power or his influence to prevent
the arming of French veflels for their own
defence, and to take new comniiflioiis ac
cordingly.
A letter from Havre de Grace of Marcli
9th, quotes the following prices of Ameri
can produce, viz. tobacco 80 livres per
quintal—i ';ce 70 ditto—exchange in Lon
don ij 1-8.
We are informed, that there have been
three fir,ail French privateers mounting (ix
guns each, fitted out at Charleston.
On the 7th of April a French feventy-fout
gun liiip arrived at Port-au-Prince with a
couiniiflary on board, lent by the govern
ment ol Old France. The town had re
solved not to receive him, and tiie fliip was
determined lie. should land. The Ameri
can vell'els were notified to leave the har
bour, and a severe cannonade succeeded,
the immediate cause of which we do not
yet learn.
The German Republican Society, lately
< (t«blifhed in this city, at h full meeting,
resolved unanimously to appoint a commit
tee who are to report the draft of an ad
dress to Citizen Genet, to be presented him
by the society in a body upon his arrival in
this city.—A number of Frenchmen and de
pendents of Frenchmen have made ar
rangements to entertain him with an ele
gant dinner soon after his arrival.
Twelve French veflels had been carried,
as prizes, into Gibraltar a little previous to
the 1 ith of March. " Some of them (fays
a letter from thence) are very rich. It was
expected Spain would join the combination
a gain ft France, but the matter by no means
certain. On the Ift of March a French
fleet of 12 fail 'jf the line were fecn cruising
off Cape ile Gate. The Spanifti govern
ment h k1 ordered jo,ooo men to the fron
tier between France and Spain ; but it was
thought war between the two nations
would be finally prevented by negociation."
The French Coufttl for the Southern
States, at Charleston, palled a decree on
the 19th of April, adjudging the brig Mor
ning Star, prize to the crew of tiie frigate
l'Ambufcade. The sale of the prize cargo
was advertised to commence 011 the 22d
of April.
Captain Beaks, lately arrived here, left
Lisbon the 29th of March, at which time
there was not any account there of a coun
ter-revolution having taken place in Paris,
as mentioned in The Star, a London print
of the 28th of March.
We hear another French frigate 10 in
our seas, cruising off the coast of the Ca
rolinas—All ounv ard bound Britiih (hips in
Charlefion were waiting for a convoy,
which was expected from Jamaica.
An English snow, prize to l'Ambufcade,
from Jamaica to Nova Scotia, is fafe 2rri
ved at New-York.
The ship Induftry,from Havre de Grace
lately driven on fiiore in a gale of wind
near Cape Henlopen. is, we hear, likely to
be got off without much damage. Eleven
perlons loft their lives in attempting to get
a Ihore '111 the boat after the ship llrtlck—
an attempt too often made in iimilar situ
ations, and generally fatal to those who
make it.
" He that would make another trip
Should always flick to the big ship."
On the 21ft of March the commifiiouer
at Guadaloupe, ifiiied a provifionaldecree
opening the ports of Balleterre arid Point;
Petre, to vcflels belonging to the Unitec
States of America, with all kinds of pro
duce, paying tile local duties. St. Luci;
Ins a!fo opened her ports to all neutral vef
fela ; paying two per cent on expo. ts.
Extract of a letter from Amflerdam, daiet
1 jth February, 1793-
" There is a very good profpeft for youi
country, by the general war betweei
France, England and Holland. Th<
Americans, by all appearance, will remaii
neutral, and will be respected by thof<
pnvers ; they wili be able to carry, witl
advantage, all fort, of provisions to the co
lonies of the belligerent nations, and take
in return, sugar, coffee, &c. This wil
make brifkbuliiefs, and mult certainly b<
attended with great success. We dial
have no fiihery this year, (o that what ma;
be sent from your quarter will fetch ;
good price."
Extract of a letter from Ireland, date-
March it, 1793.
You will know before this reaches yoi
that we have been drag'd into a war witl
I ranee by the pride and folly of England
to whom poor Ireland is oily an appen
d3ge. It is almolt universally derelict
here as being aftuallv a war againlt princi
ple. In all human probability there wil
be trouble in this country, and I fincereh
wilh I was well out of it ; America is ths
only place that will gain by this contest, il
(he be wife enough to keepjierfelf neuter,
but indeed there is a great deal of grati
tude due to France.
Extratl of a letter from Bojlon datei,
April 29, 1793.
" We have arrivals from England bring
ing papers up to the 27th of March; by
which we find that Dumouiier had had a
ft-vere engagement v\ ith the Auftrians on
the 16th, 17, and 18th of March, the two
fit 11 days, he got rather the advantage ;
but the third, Clairfayt being reinforced
by the prince of Cobourg with 12,'0c0 ca
valry, gained a mod decisive victory; the
French were entirely routed and fled at
all points : the accounts flare the number
killed to be very great on both fides, in
thecourfeof the three days, upwards of
20,000 fell. Great disturbances in Paris;
the mob want another king—Manuel, oi'
the convention,was affafiinated by the mob,
he received/>o, wouuds ; Marat was very
near it ; Gen. Valence was killed in the
engagement with the Auftrians. I have
not time to detail more; mult beg leave
to refer you to the papers. &c."
Heads of the laHjl intelligence from Europe.
011 the 19th of March a letter was read
in the national convention, from Gen.
Dumourier, informing that his army had
taken Tirlemont from the Auftrians, and
drove them considerably beyond it. The
fame day a motion was debated in the con
vention for (topping all correspondence
with England, and other hostile powers;
and that all F.nglifii and other foreigners
should cjuit France in eight days; the law
an this. iubjecf was to be reported the next
ay.—The Bedford F.nglifli man of war
had not been captured by the French
is firft reported Twelve French
rtiips of the line were cruising from the
chops of the English channel to the longi
tude of Cork, to intercept the English
homeward bound trade and watch the mo
tions of commodore Gardner. Eight
Dritifh (hips from Turkey had been captu
red by the French 1:1 the Mediterranean
and carried into tlie'r southern parts. —
On tile 2jd of March all the baiiks in Li
verpool itopped payment. —Irifli vell'els to
a large amount had been captured by the
French about the mouth of the Irilh chan
nel. Twenty one large privateers, of 20
guns and upwards failed the latter end ot
>larih, from Bourdeaux to cruise against
the Englilh.—The general opinion in Bri
tain was. that altho' the French had met
with several severe checks in the Nether
lands, yet it was not supposed to be in the
power of the combined armies to make an
impression upon France; that the re-cap
ture of the places taken by the French was
ill that could reasonably be expected, and
that if this could be effeiled, a negotiation
for peace would probably soon ensue
The king of Prulfia had again fignined to
ihe allies, that tmlefs they paid him one
million of pounds lterling annually during
each campaign, he had determined to with
draw his troops, being already in a great
degree beggared by the war. An Irifli
ihip from Belfaft to Jamaica, laden whol
ly with linnens, had been taken by the
French and carried into L'Oiient. All ac
counts agree that inexprelfible distress and
ruin had been brought upon millions of
British subjects in Britain and Ireland by
the present war with Frame, and little
lliort of a national convulsion soon ex
pedited to take place.—A bill was to be
brought into the parliament the beginning
of April for a repeal of the navigation a£t,
Co far as regards the suspension of alien du
ties 011 goods imported in neutral bottoms.
American flock had fell greatly—3 per
cento at 48 to jo, and fix per cents 88 to 90
and every one trying to fell off even at
these prices. It was computed that by
latebankruptcies in England two millions
of people were thrown out of employ
ment : banking lioufes were every day
Itopping payment, and scarcely any real
money in circulation, and every thing swel
ling to such a crisis of calamity as never
was before known in the memory of man.
On the Bth of March last, the French
national convention abolished imprisonment
for debt; and decreed that all aftuallj
confined for debt in the republic ftiould be
set at liberty. From this law, however,
are excepted all defaulters in public mo
nies.
Great-Britain and Holland acceding tc
the combination against France, is a gla
ring proof that Limited monarchy, and re
bullican ariflocracy are the fame with dej
ooti/m. It is the PRINCIPLE of th<
trench revolution, the freedom and eq::a
lity of men, that has combined tyrants a
jainft it, and not any supposed refentmeni
or the captivity or execution of the king
[n this combination England takes a de
ided part, from whence it is clear, that
Englilhuien have been hitherto cheated
with the phantom of liberty, while in re
ihry under thefliacklesof despotism.
EXTEMPORE:
Th' infernal kit/g. eurag'd to find
His Angels from their thrones were
hurl'd,
To wreak his vengeance on mankind,
Let Monarchs loose to plague the
world.
soon as the DevTs vicegerents came,
Millions on millions round them fell:
They call'd the wide deftruttion Fame,
Well p'.eas'd to do the works of Hell.
Their minions, spread to verge,
Wide thro' the land deflructive roam;
Till France, who long had felt their scourge
Rose to revenge and sent them home.
May, 6th 1793. C.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
Six Per Cents 17/
Three Per Cents 9/6
Deferred , 10/
Eank of the United States 5 pr. c.
Books & Stationary.
ROBERT CAMPBELL",
No. 54, Second Street, South, second door be
low the corner of-Cnefnut-ilreet,
HAS IMPORTED,
By the late arrivals from Britain and
Ireland,
The ancient & modern universal history, 60 vols
Guthries htftory of the World, 13 vots.
EiOgraphical Dictionary, 12 vols, elegantly gilt.
Anachaifu's Travels in ancient Greece, 7 vols'
Gibbons's Roman History, 12 vols. gilt.
Hume & Smollet's History of England, 13 vols.
Robertlon's history of Charles the V. 4 vols.
History of America, 3 vols.
De la Croix on the different constitutions of Eu
rope and America. 2 vols.
New Annual Register, 12 vols.
Nicker on executive Power, 2 vr ls.
Ruliel's history of ancient Europe, 2. vols.
History of modem Euiodc, 5 vols.
Young's travels in France, 2 vols.
"Fielding's Works, 12 vols*
Priestley's Le&ureson History, 2 vols:
Same book in 1 vol.
Priestley's Kiftorical Charts on Rollers with book;
of description.
King of Proffia's Works, 13 vols.
Enfield's History of Philosophy, 2 vcls. 4to ele
gantly giit.
Same book in 2 vols. Svo.
Bell's DrJtiili Theatre, 25 vols, coarse or fijiS
paper.
Shakespeare's Works, lor 7 vols.
Botanic Garden, 2 vols, bound in one.
Moiheim's Ecclefijftical History, 6 vols.
Doddridge's Family Expositor, 6 vols.
Lardner's Works, 11 vois.
Whitfield's Works, 7 vols.
Biftop of Landaff's Theological Tradls, 6 vols.
Large Family Bibles, with beautiful copper
plates.
Lavater on Physiognomy, abridged.
Young's Annals as Agriculture, 18 vols.
Tour in France.
Natural History of Birds, colored plates, 3 vols.
Baretti's Italian and English Dictionary.
Belarelli's do. do. do. 3 vols.
Italian and Englifli Exercises.
Paines Works.
Ar.derfon on Commerce 6 vols.
Viner's Abriagment of the Law, 12 vols. 8 vo,
Wood's Conveyancing, 3 vols, folio.
Same book 4 fit ft vols. Svo.
William's digest of the English Law 2 vohj
Coming's digest of the Law, 6 vois*
Croke's Reports, 4 vols.
Salkeld'i Reports, 3 vols.
Henry Blakftone's do.
Wm. Biackiton's do. 2 vols.
Burrow's do. 5 vols.
Ambier's do.
Cowoer's do.
Brown's do. 7. vols#
Douglas's ou. Veyfey's do. 2 vols.
Dallas's do. Coke's do. 7 vois*
Wilson's do. 3 vols. Rajm.na'sdo. 3 vols :
Strange's do. 2 vols. Comyn's do.
billy's Entries, 2 vols.
Coke on Littleton.
Morgan's Ellays, 2 vols.
Vatt li on the Law of Nations,
WoodefonY Lectures, 2 vols.
Harrifon's Chancery, 2 vois.
Hinde's do.
Powell on Powers.
Powell on Contrads.
EfpinafTe on Nisi Prius.
Sullivan's Le&ures.
Eunomus, or Dialogues on the Laws & conftitu*
tion of England.
Mothcrb)*s medical Di&ionarv,
Medical Commentaries, 16 vols, by Duncan.
Medical Communications and inquiries, 6 vols.
Medical Memoirs, 3 vols.
Morgan on the feat and causes (f Jifeafes, 3 vols#
Pott's Cnirurgical Works, 3 vols.
Ofburn's midwifery.
I ranladlions of a new medical society.
Undeiwood on the diseases of cniidren, 2 vols.
vVallii's Sydenham, 2 vols.
Van Swieten's Commentaries on Boerhave, 18
vols.
Spalianzanics difiertations, 2 vols,
: ionteron the Venereal aifeale.
• unter on the diseases of the teeth#
-unter on the animal ceconomy.
Reid on the diseases of the army and navy
ilank books ot all sizes.
Writing paper of ail k»nds.
quills of the very belt quality, See. &c.
R C. will supply country ft#re-keep. )s on tha
ver. lowest ftrms, with family, pocket, and com*
mo 1 biblfes, bo . s, eftaments, primers*
waters, writing paper, wrapping do. playing cards,
Enghlh ai,d American ink powder, qu.ns, bonnec
papers, Young man's companion, D'lworth's
Arithmetic, Watt's psalms and hvmi s, vV'efi y's
II mns, dictionaries, hist ries of al. k ;d , &c.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be i Id as the : l B >< k Stores of
Jcfepb Crukjhank a,nd Ibomas D.bjon, and may
t>e i»..d at the Printing othec, No. 2C9. Mar
ket-Street. [Priie one eighth 0 a dci'.ar,J
LETTERS
A.ddrefied to the Yeomanry of the
United Statts:
Containing some Obfervjiions on Funding
and Bank. SyJ terns:
By an AMERICAN FARMER.
" BLEST paper-credit! b?ft and last supply,
That lends corruption lighter wings to fl. ;
Gold imp'd bv thee, can compass hardest
Can pocket States, can fetch or carry kinys j
A single leaf (hall waft an army o'er,
Or fiip off Seriates to a distant lliore ;
A leaf, like Sybils', scatter to and fro,
Our fates and fortunes, as the winds lhall blow :
Pregnant with thousands flits the Jcrip urfecn,
Ai d silent fells a king or buys a queen—»
Oh ! that such bulky bribes as ail mij<ht fse
Still, as of old, encumber'd Villainy !"
TO BE RENTED,
And po(T ill on given in m, next.
A Merchant M I L L>
ALSO, a COUNTRY and a SAW MILL,
ei;h r separately or together, wi:h all the
c nveniencies thereunto belonging, confining of a
od framed dwelling house, store house, granary,
Coopers Ihop, itabh?, See. all in perfect or
der and aJmoft new, situate in a fine wheat coun
try, on a constant and plentiful (beam of water,
t the head of a navigable Crtek, calle-l MifTipilion,
from whence the fha lops tranf. 011 flour to Phila
delphia without any trouble to the miller, and ad
joining a tlourilhing village that always affords a
very ready lale for the off*l of the merchai.t mill,
nd an abundance of custom to the country and
law mills. Tnofe advantages render these mills
inferior to none in this countr ; and the filiation,
for a It ore is equal to any in the state. The
merchant miil is three stories high with wo pair
nt burr stones t double gear'd, a icreene and
fann that cleans wheat into both hcppeis, two
bolting chests, and a machine for hoisting that goes
by water. This mill manufa£iures principally
luperhne flour, that is much esteemed as such in
Philadelphia. For terms apply to Robert Lewis
and Co. merchants in Philadelphia, or the sub
scribers near the premises.
ELIZABETH THORNE,
PETER CAVERLY.
Mil ford, Kent Count)) of Delaware,
Mi) . 1, 1793. 2«ut[From the (Boflon) Independent ChronicleJ
The CRISIS, No. XI.
THERE is a laudable pride connected
with the terms " free, Jovereign, and
independent," that fhou'd ever operate on
the mind of every citizen within the Uni
ted States of America. Each individual
State of the Federal government, fullainf
this political character ; how formidable,
then, ought this sovereignty to appear, when
exercised by the Representatives of the
Union, afiembled in their legislative ca
pacity!
I was led into the foregoing remarks,
upon reading the proceedings of the late
Congress. I could not but feel a regret,
as a citizen of the United States, to ob
serve the iffuc of lo long a feflion. A quef
tion natura ly arose, what has been the ic
full of their deliberations, as it refpedi
the great obje&s of the Union ?
It is true, at an eatly period, an in
*eftigation of St. CI ir's expedition, wai
brought forward ; and from appearances a
that moment, some dtcifion was expected
that would amply vindicate the honor o
the United States, in this defeat. Ever)
friend to our slaughtered citiz ns, antici
pated the hour, when some fttisfa&ior
•would be made for the blood spilled at tin
Miami Villages. Every American Con
ceived that fomeplaufible account, at lead
would be ren erec, why cont'a&ors wen
fuffered to expend thoufandß for " pacl
faddl s," &c. and why our citizen fclditr:
were left to fall a facrifice, for want of nr
ceffary and timely supplies. Is it a fmal
matter that thousands of our young mer
fliould perish in the wildernefs—Sh uk
become the vi&ims of a remorseless enemy
expoled to all the cruelties of incensed fa
vages, and their bodies to remain unburiec
in the wilds of our Weflern Territory ? —
Are ti efe considerations of a trifling na
Ture; or will it console the relations ant.
numerous friends of the deceased, to bt
told that a committee of Congress has beer
appointee", jull to enumerate the aggravatec
circumflances attencii g this difgraceful bu
line Is ? To report at the latter end of the
feflion a statement of facts, and then to ad
journ for nine months, to give the vena
papeis on the continent an opp rtunit)
wantonly to aflert, that the condu&ors ot
this expedition, have baffled every Con
grefiiotial invefti«ntion ?—Forbid it the
manes of Butlkr, Newman, Phelon,
and hundreds of others whole names are
enrolled in the catalogue of death.—ls this
temporizing proceeding fatisfaftory to the
merchant, when he considers that a large
«« additional tax" is laid on trade, for the
file purpose of prosecuting this difgraceful
and ignominious Indian War?— The causes
of this defeat are not cleared up to the
public, and yet we are to go on for another
campaign, with the fame refponftble persons
to conduA it.—The money comes too
hard from the merchant again to risque it
in the hands of those, who have (by the
report of the committee of Congress)
squandered away thousands by " misman
agement and nejjleift."
Another confiderttion that mud give
dlffatisfa&ion is that notwithstanding the
notorious breach of the Treaty on the part of
the Britijh, in holding the pojls on our Fron
tiers, not a word has been publicky men
tioned in Congress, during their whole ses
sion, refpefking it. Ihe Indian War mud
be considered as arising principally from
this quarter. The supplies which enabled
the Indians to carry on this war, mud
come from the English ; and no doubt hf.d
a thorough tnve/ligatton taken place, we
should have found that the principal re
fentment of those tribes originated from
the agents residing within these polls.
Tuis conjecture is natural, as no such
inveteracy ever subsisted between the feve
ral tribes and us, previous to the peace.
They were never before in a situation to
commence such hofti'e attacks. These
potts therefore are held with the view to
alienate the Indians from the Uni ed States,
and to attach them to the Britifti.
Congress oueht to have been aware of
this Evgti/h policy, and instead of commen
cing hostilities against the Indians, and in
volving us in a deftruftive war v ith the
numerous nations, they (liould have come
forward in an explicit winner, and demand
cd a fin-render of our frontiers. How de
rogatory as sovereign States, to submit to
our preent humilia'ing situation ; to per
mit a conquered enemy, to hold such im
portant polls within our ten itory, contrary
to the cxprefs terms of their treaty j and
to fuffer them to continu; in the very
bowels of our country, to incnfe the na
tives to wage war againd us ? How dis
graceful, to admit a conquered nation to
retain a chain of forts, which secures a
monopoly of the most profitable part of our
commerce ? The I'UR TRADE of th.3
country is principally in the hands of the
Bririfh, by which means they deprive us
of every benefit arising from this source,
with this additional advantage, that while
they are peacably enjoying the profits of
this traffic, they are enticing the Indiansto
prosecute a dedruftive war againlt us.
By this artful policy, in ft end of receiving
the benefits of a trade, which we are ex
chtjtve/y entitled to, as being within our
own territory, we are difgracefully relin
quishing it to Britain, and fuffering our
felres to become the dupes of their finefle
and intiigue.
But what adds to our folly is, that they
obl'ge us to become enemies to those, with
whom we ought, upon every prudential
principle, to be in drift friendfnip and al
liance. Thus by the deep planned ma
nceuvres of Britain, they are enjoying eve
y commercial advantage with the natives,
while the United States, have only the
•xpenjive and disgraceful talk of contending
with them.
The British minidry mud laugh at out
piifillanirtiity ; they cannot refrain smiling
it the pompous parade of our government
— and sneering at the high founding terms
>f the dignity of the United States. Such
ombaftical a(T verations mud appear trulj
larcical .During every feflion of Congress
the enquiry of the British minidry, with
r>ut doub: is, whether a demand is mad<
for the Surrender of the wedern posts;
If not, they red perfectly contented as tc
our declamatory verbosity.
How great is the contrast between oui
conduct, and that of the French nation
They behave with a dignity worthy thi
afiume. An ind'gnity of
fered e"en to an ambaiTador, is refentei'
with a spirit becoming a sovereign nation
But the United Slates patiently fubmil
to have a few hundred troops garrifoi
their frontiers, and engross a mod profit
able branch of the r internal trade! Boafl
not then, of conquering the British nai
on ! For if we submit any longer to this
violation of the treaty, it mud be acknow
ledged that they dill command an im
portant part of our territory. By hold
mg t .efe pills, they may be able in s
short time, to effect more real advantagt
to the British nation, than by holding
New-York, or any other place within tht
Union.
The benefits resulting to the revenue
and commerce ot England from the fui
trade of this country is of immenlit va
lue. 1 houfands are facrificed by tii
every year, by permitting the British tc
engr is this valuable branch. Woul,
England fuffer us to violate the treaty or
our part, or to hold pods either in Eu
rope, or the Wed Indies, so greatly in
jurious to them ? Had we acted thus, the
table of Congress would have been filled
with remonflrances againd the measure ;
the consul of his sacred majedy this " hcji
of earthly kings," would have been cla
morojs round their doors, and certain
individuals throughout every part of the
Union, would be condantly anathemati
zing our perfidy.
As a proof of tie latter assertion, we
now read paragraphs in our papers, pur
porting that we ought to meet the Brit
ish " half way"—That as they speak ol
out government with refpeS, it is chur
lilh to hold enmity with them." Can an
American read such publications, without
feeling arefentment ?—The British "fpeal
of our government with refpeS," But da
they treat our government with common
decency ? Let their conduct with refp?<R
to our commerce—their breach of trea
ty —their hauteur behavfour towards us, tef
tify their cordiality and friendfhip.
When the Congress of the United
States assemble, "the People" expect fornt
national benefits to accrue. They ex
pect that their trade and commerce will be
promoted and extended ; that the Ame
rican navigation (hall not be embarrafToi
by the British nation, without fomeretali
ation for the injury ; that the /imericar
[hipping {hall not lay totally neglected
within our own ports, while that of the
British are dispatched with ample, and
profitable freights. They exp: ft that nc,
enemy infedsour territory without some
remonjlrance to the power that ftipportG
them ; more especially do they expect
that no nation is Suffered to do this, in
violation of a solemn treaty, or permitted : "
continue in this breach of faith, without
being called upon to give a categorical
explanation of their conduct.
During the long session of Congress ;
we have been entertained with a iengthv
report from the financeering department.
A system of finance is brougfit forward,
I'o intricate that scarcely an individual can
unravel its mvfteries, Whether the se
cretary is culpable, or not ir. his conduit,
the perplexity of the bufmefs puts it beyond
the reach of every man to determine ;
but this one thing is evident that this go
vernment ought not at this early period of ex
igence, to have its finances involved in fuel,
i dark ivtxplicible. labyrinth. The budge!
of a Britilh minister, notwithflanding the
complicated fyltems of centuries are re
cognized, is equally as intelligible. The
finances of a republic, like the laws ol
Its government, should ever be prosecuted
upon fuchfimple principles, that every citi
zen (liould be able to form some idea ol
the real receipts and expenditures of it
3n the contrary, fydems of
nyft tries, serve only to bewilder the people
in genetal, and give an opportunity for
certain persons, to follow a traffic, ruin
3Ui to the pub ic interest.
It would excite laughter, (if the fubjefi
Aas not too serious) to find upon the lim
pi- request of knowing the state of om
:reafury, the secretary should write ;
arge number of folio pages, to anfwei
this plain question. If such voluminoui
explanations are neceflarv in its juvenili
late, what are we to expeff as the fyfterr
Secomes more intricate by age ? The re
JVI i fit ion requiredfigures rather than words
si receipts and expenditures are more ac
curate'y ascertained by the oldfaf!:ion ctif
torn of pounds, fhil/ings and pence, than b
logical definitions.
To conclude—The sentiments ativanc
:d in the CRISIS, are by a few interejl
'd people, branded as antifederal ; but th<
author conceives that they are principles
that mull ever support the Union. H<
0 ilhes a continuance of the federal go
vernment, and that it may a ways be foun
ded on the permanent batis of public eon
ddence.—As "jree,fovereign, . nd i-.deprn
lent States," he is defiious th.it we fhoulc
naintain our national dignity, both in oui
■ommerce and territory—That we fhoulc
live vigor to the former by a&s of rctalia
ion, and poflefs the Litter by demanding
1 compliance with our solemn treaty. Hi
not with that we should involve our
"elves with the powers at war, in tliei
xefent tontell ; but he is bold to afiert
that we are ent.tled on the old score, tc
iave a surrender of our Western Polls
If these sentiments are antifederal, the au
thor glories in the character.
It is fa id above, that the fentmenti
delivered in the CRISIS, arc opposed by
!< interefled persons,"—Among this class
nay be reckoned, allthofewho are fnu;:
In their appointments with falarics «nc
r ees, vastly beyond what they are entitlec
to, either by the Ir personal merit, or the
luties of their office : all those who havt
icquired an interest in the national bank
iy an unjuftifiable monopoly : a nume
ous tribe of expectants. dependsnts, anc
ycophants : These persons read the pub
ic papers with a jealous eye; and theii
everal inierefts being the thermometer, b)
A-hich they graduate a;l publications, the)
ire disgusted at every fugtieftion that lead;
0 an investigation of their several claims.
1 he revenue officer dreads an abatement ol
lis salary and fees—The bank shrinks at
he idea of taxing his dividend : and tie
ycophant shudders at the thought of not
eceiving a reward for his obfequ oufne.'s
These various causes raise an opposition
imong this particular group, which wher
wrought into a combined operation, forms
i focus of refen ment. which requires ar
meommon (hare offortitude and refo'utior
owithftand.—Gut this is a consolation,
hat Truth and Justice will ever prevail.
A REPUBLICAN.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold by Thomas Dobson Wil
liam Young, Robert Campbell,
Melirs. Rjce and Co. and Joi;;% M'
Culloch, No. x. North Third-street,
A N EXAMINATION qf the lnte pro
ceedings in Congress refpe&ino; the
official condu£t of the Secretary of the
Treasury; with Obfiervations, &c. on the
application of loans from Holland, negori
ated under the aets of the 4th and 12th
Augtllt 1790 —The price of thp above
pamphlet is three iixteenths of a dollar, or
is 4el. 1-2 April 24- saw tf
TO THE PUBLIC.
Ty[7r-joiREAS an Attachment at the suit of Sam
uel Imlay pad N? aniel Imlay, executors
of the tefr :n,ent ' will of Peter Imlay, de
ceased, has Tut r.-r the Supreme Cour t of
Judicature of the (i at( L«ew-Jerfey, against the
la ds of Gjir 1 , late of the county of
M ddlefex, and fiat'- ' res/id, returnable to the
firft Tuelday in S her, seventeen hundred
and ninety-two Notice is hereby given to the
said Gariet V.,orhei , that unless he appearand
file special bail to the said adlion, judgment
will be entered against him, by default, and the
lands so attached Jold for the fatisfa&ion of such
of his creditors as (hall appear to be justly entitled
to any demand thereon, and shall apply for that
purpose, according to the so m of the statute in
tuch cafe made and provided.
By order of th e Court,
April 17. law. iy HOWELL, Clki
Harrijburgb Mail Stage.
STAR FS every Wednesday from Mr. Henry
Epply's in race street, between third and
fourth streets, and arrives at H 'rrilfburgh on the
Saturday morning foil wing—Starts from Mr.
C abb's, innkeeper, Hdrrifburgh, on Monday
and arrives on Wednesday at Philadelphia.—
N.B. The Reading stage ftarrs from Reading;
at John Witman's, innkeeper, on Monday, and
arrives at Philadelphia on Tuesday morning—
Then starts from Philadelphia on Friday morn
ing at 4 o'clock, and arrives at Reading on Sa
urday morning. The greatest care and attenti
on /hall be paid by the publics 1 humble fervanr.
WILLIAM COLEMAN.
N. B. A light stage upon iprings, with two
horses, or without horses, with complete geers,
may be had at any moments' warning, for the
accommodation of ladies and gentlemen, by ap
plying to the above named Wm. Coleman, living
n the borough of Reading.
I Have claims to about two hundred and
fifty thousand acres or LriND in the ft ate of
Kentuckey, in different parts of that country,
some of which I know to be equal to any} alt
ofwhch lam inclined to dispose of, either by
entire sale, or by admitting one, or two part er?,
to whom the agency on the whose will be com
mitted.
One fcuith of the con'raft will be required in.
hand, either in cash, merchandise, or such afl*et»
as may be converted to a&ive use, the refiaye
mav be apportioned in convenient instalments.
The p'urchafers to give security, on the land,
or otherways,as suits them.
Knowing that there is a prejudice against the
titles of land in that fVare, which is more general
rhan just, 3 am willing to ftiputate in the cop
craft, that a discount, or drdu&ion, fnali be
•nade, where any land may be loft, by reason of a
defective title.
Any person ihenning to such a purchase, Is re
queued to write to me by post, in answer to
>vhom, more particular information wiil be given.
HENRY BANKS.
Richmond March 20, 1793. 2a w tf.
Journeymen Saddlers
WANTED,
BV the Society of Master Saddle*® of the city
of Philadelphia—Fifteen or twenty work
men ofrheabove profeflion,willmeet with constant
employment and generous wages, by applying to
WILLIAM JONES, Secretary to the society, at
3, South Front- street.
April 24- 2aw 6t
r
JUST PUBLISHED,
[Price one quarter of a dollar J
THE
LAWS
UNITED STATES,
Patted at the lalt Seflion of Congress, whiclk
complete vol. 11.
PubTtfbtd by Authority,
A Complete INDEX is added for the volume.
Philadelphia—Printed bv Ch iids &? Swain e«
Printers of the Laws of the United States; and
I Id by them at their Office No 2019, Market-
Street : also by the principal Booklellers, where
1 01. I. is to be had.
STRAY MARE.
CAME to the plantation of William William
fon, late of Little Britain township, Lan
aiter county, on the 10th dav of last April, .a
"mall Bav Mare, a natural trotter, about 13 hands
ligh ; (he was th n advertised and since appraised.
i'he owner is once more desired to come, prove
property, pav charges, and take her away* other*
jvife Hie will be fold in two months from this
!are, by MARGARET WILLIAMSON.
March 25, 1793. 3t 2aw
Department of State, to wit.
N OTICE is hereby given, to persons in
terested in the property or the proceed
ings of Claudius Paul Ragwett, a citizei of '
Pennsylvania, lately deceased at Bordeaux,
in Fiance, that on application at the office
r>f" the Secretary of State, they may receive
information relative thereto, as tranfmit
red by Mr. Femvick, Confulfor the United
States at Bordeaux.
GEO. TAYLOR, jun. Chief Ck.
Philadelphia, April 3c, 1793.
PRINTED BY
C HILDS and SWAIN E.
AT THEIkOVFTrr NO. 200, HTGH-STREJJT,
R n.FTH-STS "ET,