[Numb. 2 3of\oi.-- ll.]
For the Nation al Gazette.
Mr- Frsheau,
UNDER- the influence of t!idea,
that the conditA oftheregular clar
gy in the western parts of Pennfylviims,
feare not investigation ; nor regards tho.e
ungenerous reflexions,, whiCii ma voiei .
ignorance may dictate, I have read wi.n
pity and contempt a piece m your paper
of the 28th of November, wherein the
writer, in order to demonstrate his_ extra
ordinary heroism.in furraounting t,.c dan-
K er to which he was exposed, m a late
tour to Pittfburg, represents the magil
t ->tes, clergy, and civil officers 111 i-«
western country, as openly, and danger
ously confederated in a state of aAual in
surgency against the government m the
union. , .
It i, evident that gentleman is ne.the.
acquainted with the western clergy, nor
with the excrcife of those manly virtue.,
which they inculcate, or his treatment ol
his fellow citizens, would have been more
confident with truth, juft.ee and genero 1-
tv . The weltern clergy are too deeply
engaged in discharging the duties of their
function, to condescend to take much no
tice of the excise, or its noisy collectors ;
nor have they ever ben found to combine,
or promote any combination, against tnc
government of the union ; but have al
ways been as forward in their station to
support the laws, discountenance riotous
proceedings, and defend their country, as
any other class of citizens.
Therefore, as a citizen of the United
States, ocecftbr
I c'll upon that gentleman (Mr. ClymerJ
to support his allegations by matte.. ol
fa&, and mud inform him, that unti.
that is done, the western clergy are ca
pableof despising the man that can, with
out any provocation, basely aflaffinatc tlu
character of an innocent class of citizens.
Indeed I frankly confefs,that the great
eft part, if not all of the western clergy :
think it their honor that they are not k
far destitute of that manly fetifibility whict
caufesmenin every station to participat<
the distresses of the induftnous poor, as tc
rejoice at the imposition of an exciie :
which in its operation must be cruelly op
preffive to the inhabitants of the weflerr
country, already bleeding by the irier.
cilefs hands of unrelenting savages.
At the fame time the sentiments ol
the clergy have been, and are, that reason.
petition and remonstrance are the only
weapons which ought to be uled in com
bating tHe-e*cifc4aw j and if those provt
ineffectual, then fubmifiion ought to have
the preference of any other alternative.
I have not seen any of the clergy since
I read the publication referred to; bui
being acquainted with all the regular cler
gymen in the western part of Pennsylva
nia, I presume what I have written will
generally embrace their sentiments. As
to the honourable President of the western
diftrift, the magistrates and civil officers,
I am persuaded their conduA as citizens
will be found, upon investigation, to tri
umph over mifrepiefentation and calum
ny.
A IVeJlmoreland Clergyma.
December 24, 1792.
FOREIGN NEWS.
* ExtraSsfrom Englijh and French papers.
LONDON, November 2.
IF the present rulers of France were
to lay aside all animosities against pool
Louis and his unhappy family, and place
them in such an asylum as might secure
undisturbed comfort for the remainder of
their days, the bitterest enemies of the
revolution would be disposed to look on
that extraordinary event with abatement
of hostility, if not with positive approba
tion.
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhtd Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Threi Dollars per annum.
WEDNESDAY, January 16, 1793.
The following is an eflimate of the prc
(Vrit value of the several manufactures of
Great Britain: The woolen i 6,800,0001.
Leather 10,500,000 —Flax 1,750,000
Hemp 890,000— Glass 630,000— Paper
7 80,000 —Porcelaine 1,000,000 S: lie
3>3 )O,GOO Cotton 960,000 Lead
1,650,000 Tin T ,000,000 Iron
8,700,000 —Steel and plating 3,400,000
Total 5 1,410,000.
A great perfonsge [George 31'.] seems
now in good earned to be entering on a
plan of retrenchment. Car'.eton houie,
with itseftablifhnients, is undoubtedly quit
ted, pro tempore, for retirement to a pri
-■ ate feat j and where, we doubt not, but
the great \ crfonaje will participate in
finitely gr-'iter happinefi than while liv
i !■; i:i f.nnpi-jous palaces, at an expence
incompatible with the present state of his
iffjirs.
If the French proceed to try their king
uid queen, how conlemptiLle will it mai-:e
them appear in the face of al! Europe!
Had their late f> vei - i ben a man oi
iV.lities and duplicity, like our Charles
,'ae Firit ; hid he loit to his country the
foveresgnty of many province 1 : ; had he
mpofe , without the content ot h:s peo
ple many and oppressive taxes; had tie
)een tie cause of tie deftrnctlr/n of th H
tves of many • his fubjefts, he would
.lien live been a pr ••v;r object tor trial :
put when he is a good humoured, eating
and drinking king, without any pretence
:o abilities ; when he is led merely as
:! "Uni.'lanees present themselves to hi
feeble tr.hid ; when he his never had th
eart desire to tnflaveor oppress his ;::!>■
every nation in t'ne world must cr ;
nit, shame upon them ! And for a natioii
:hat pretends to gallantry no lets than ho
tour to think of pui.'iihing a queen, c
jeaufy, howevei 1 1 the z nith of h rpow
.rand influence (he may have abused i;.
s incoufillent, absurd, and sanguinary.
How the French, with Gui Patin at their
lead, abused the English as barbarians and
*avai>es, when they behca :ed king Charle ;
:he Fit ft, who perhaps defcrved his fate!
How v. ill they in the r turn be enabled to
etort upon them, if any violence is oi
"ered to the perfoi of their late fove
eigns ! [ 'Jini/lerLlfopcr.'j
The number of inufquets purchased b)
:he rep bjic of France from this country,
r o much to our advantage, was 78,000;
ibout a fortnight since The r own manu-
F-aories continue to be inc'-ffantly em
ployed, and, befoie next spring, even
man, in France, abie to carry a mufquet
will have one.
The French funds are rapidly riling :
and to those who conl.der England ant!
France as two buckets in. a well, and whe
think that as the one nf.*s the other muH
fall, it may appear probable, that our funds
ivill decline in proportion. But this cal
culation is erroneous, and does not com
bine every circumstance that ought to oc
considered. If the French revolution
tends, as it moil: certainly will.- to preferye
peace between the two ration*, it wil]
dvance the profpetity of the one country
in an id'i 1 oi- equal ratio to that 01 e othet;
and our 3 per cent 3 like the French af
fignats, may yet get on to par.
A'ov. 17. The inhabitants of Madras,
in a full meeting, have voted an address
of congratulation to Marquis Cornwallis.
upon the success of his arms ; and have
directed that a committee {hall 01
the royal academy of Great Britain, to
»oint out an artist by whom the statue
purposed to be erected in honour of that
nobleman (hall be executed. An address
is also to be presented to General Mea
dows, whose portrait will oc placid in
their town hall.
Admiral Goodall has sent an .Lnglifh
frigate into the roads of Nice, to bring
away the Englilh Consul, and the mer
chants who may chufe to leave that place.
M. Truget does not oppose this rneafur e,
so that no rupture between the kingdom
of Gr:at Britain and the French nation
will be produced by it. Thi Englilh and
all o?her persona have, indeed, had per
fect liberty qf-entering and quitting Nice
whenever they pleased, without the allif
tanctf of Admiral Goodall.
The following is a copy of the conten
tion concluded between General Montel
•j iio i, in the name of the French nation
and the Ger.evete deputies in the name 01
that! rc.Mi'jliSi wll _ i was in the
Nut o". -! Convention on Friday »\(l.
I. All the c<;rp. of the Swits troop:
ivhic.'i are now 111 (*eiieta, Qiaw 1
ly. Retire frito Switzerland, and the fan:
retWKt shall be completed betwixt the pre-
Ic-Tm. per od and the 3lt ot Decemoer next
-, between this time and the fame e
•e''. .... !jr ™-l the Irer.cl
rocps who fjiroaaded Geneva, and v;i"
iad-approached it 0:1 account or the dii
\rences terminated by the present Con
n- n, ihall lie witl.drn - n.. aid pnftcc
11 such a manner as not to give any canK
jr alarm to Geneva.
3. From..(he date of the present Con
>en'jios a free c>'nmunjcAt;oa
he inhabitants of Savoy and the twa tc
uhlics, and full liberty of patiing froir
Geneva to Switzerland, aid from Swit
'.irland to Geneva, lhall be re-eilabnfiui
)U the fame footing as in the time 01
jeace, agreeably to treaty and to ufagc.
4. The republic of Geneva exprefslj
ind folemnlv reserves toitfeif all anteiio'
reaties with its neighbours, and partial
arly t:: it of 1584, with the refpedabh
■u.tons of Zurich and Bertie, as Wvll a
ne ift article of the treaty of 1784.
ihcFreoefc rcpu Lcnot meaning that tm
eferve frould connect it witn treatie:
n which it is not concerned, nor preju
lice in any thing the power it has reler
red to itfclf of reviftng its own treaties
■x cuted proviuonally until the time o
uch revision.
l ite present convention {hall be ratifies
)y the French republic and the republi'.
>f Geneva, and letters of ratification lha
>e exchanged on both fides, in the fp c
;f twelve days, or if possible, sooner.
Signed, &c at Landrecey, on the id
of November.
The duke of Brunfwick has tarniftiec
he glory of the Prufilan arms, and revive,
he courage of the desponding democrats,
HLis insolence in the profpeft cl fucce!>
vill prevent compafiion in the leafon 0
ralamity. i -i- h tliii difcomti. -r_ ma} 1
:,e ascribed to the immediate iirterpofn ioi
if providence, yet no apology cari lereer
lim from the imputation ot precipitancy
n undertaking the expedition, and ralii
less in his mode of conducting it. 1
•eflefris little honour on the wisdom or thr
:onfederates to "..ledge they were deceiv
;d by the emig.ant princes. The pam
•>ered minions of a voluptuous court, an.
:he unprincipled invaders oi iheirc i
reedom, were emitled to no protection,
»nd u-worthy of any confidence ; and
hough the view of misfortune might ex
:ott relief even for guilty fufferers, yet it
:anr.ot juflify the monarchs of PrnTia and
Austria in participating their coun
t's and conforming to their directions.
But commiseration for the exiles "as no:
ihe true motive for engaging in the war ;
r.or can the failure of the enterprize b<
ascribed to their prudence. Li:.tie poli
tical sagacity was icquifite to forefee the
confequenccs of the French revolution;
the . ' rehenfton of its influence fv, allow
ed up' minuter concerns, and fufpendec
the infigr.ificant quarrels of 01 posing
princes. ' A system of military govern
ment was to be fnbftituted for that which
1:1 founded on the rights of man. Era
ployed in this important objedt, the court
of Berlin, deaf to its true interests
& regardless of the faith of treaties,abandon
edthe patriotic fovercign of Poland and it?
brave inhabitants, tothedetefted ambitiorol
the old Ruffian tyrant; expended htr
trcafure and facrifiecd her trqops to re-
[Total No. 127.]
(lore the Austrian influence !n France;
forgetting that through its predominance
the kingdom of Prussia was lhaken to the
foundation, and its favorite monarch ex
posed to ruin. We must congratulate
our friend and ally on Lis defeat We
may find more honourable employment
for his forces in repreHing the hostile in
curuons of-iffic'uus barbarity, and pro
te&ing civil'j-dffTaciety from another ir
ruption of the' Scythian tribes. His ad
vocates, however,fpeak confidently ®f the re
newing of his attempt again'.l Franco ia
the ensuing spring. But the gallant de
fence ofThionville, the encrefcfing num
bers and returning discipline of the French,
innies, and the magnanimity of the Con
vention in refufing to treat till he had e
i-acuated their territories, may teach him
that '.lie enthuGafm which the energies of
ti iith Stid freedom rnfpir£, will ultimately
preva.il (Tver the .-■•mailt e-.ertions of disc,-
plined valour,and the molt consummate im
provements in military ta&ics. Mean
;i.:ie, those who are Ihotked with the hu«
milia'ion of despotism in Paris, may be
hold its philanthropy in the boinbard
nelrt'df Lisle, and the deftruiVion of the
property of its defencelefs inhabitants, and
:onte:nplate its magnificence in the ful
rr.ir.ation of impotent manifeftoes, when
ts Expiring vidians were perishing disre
garded on the plain 3 of Champagne.
Gen. Outline's attack upon the inde
pendent princes of the German Empire,
may,pofTibly,be one means of roufiug the re
butment of the Germanic body, & addun
neceflarily to the lift of his adversaries —
The republic ought not to forget, in its
ttdom- for the propagation of liberty,-
the overthrow of eftablilhed govern
uentfi is a difficult talk j anT ttiat the
lappinefs of mankind is more effe&nally
promoted by the defTemination of know
edg», than the violence of arms.
The barren rocks of Savoy have re
:c' oed with the fhoiits of vivela liberte;
ind the city of Nice has submitted to its
;entle sway. The joy with which the
nvading army was received by the people
Jifplays, in the moll striking colours, the
rppreifive nature of their former govern
ment, In provoking the refentinent of
this formidable neighbor, tie sovereign of
these narrow territories (the king of Sar
iirtia) h;is departed from the chara&erif
:ical prudence of his family.
The ftriSeft neutrality wa3 his only fe
•ju.itv. He mud now purchase proteili
an at the price of independence ; and the
louse of Aullria will fcareely obtain for
lim that tranquility which his own dif
:re;ion mi jht have preserved.
It is more and more improbable that
w 11 take any part in the contest a
raill ft France. Loaded as that country
s by the accumulated weight of civil and
ecc efiaftic bondage, debilitated in its ro
(burces abroad, and ruined in political
oeconomy at home by the ignorance and
vices of its present rulers ; yet the innate
dig ity of sentiment peculiar to its inha.
bitants, and tire romantic courage for
win h they have been diftinguiflied, may
re (lore it to its former lustre. The feeds
of Gothic freedom were with difficulty
crad cated from the minds of the people ;
and, had not superstition l-:nt her pow
erful aid for their extirpation,ti e 'possibly
might have produced the happy fruit ot
constitutional liberty. If, by the alli
ance of France, they obtain this hlefiing
it viillbefome compensation for the'mil
eries they have endured during the inaus
picious adminifttation of the Bourbon
race.
The National convention of France
beran its career by abolishing Royalty.—
Without inquiring into the fuperiofity of
the republican system, trie circum(lance3
of their fituaiion jullified them in adopt
ing it. Louis the XVI. had so com
pletely loft (he confidence of the nation,
thatsny attempt to retlore him to his for
feited rank would have been at once detriiriental to the community, and dange
rous to hiinfelf. The conrtituent ali'em
bly, in abrogating thole artificial distincti
ons which are the furelt support of monar
chical government,divert the throne ol" that
splendour which is necefl'ary to give it im
portance in the public eye, aud prepared
the way for its final fubverlion. In their
zeal against aristocracy they destroyed the
pillars of the fabric they were labouring tc
rear, and forgot that the sceptre mil (I
quickly drop from the hands of a king wht
has no hereditary nobility, dignified clergy,
and regal judicatures, to command attach
ment to his person, reverence to hisftation,
and obedience to his will. The fubftanct
of royalty being removed, the form mull
quickly vaniih ; and no other change ha:
been elfefted than what the common course
of events would have soon produced.
Mentz, which is now appended to the
French conquests, adds no finall degree o!
glory to their arms. It is very anci
ent but badly built. The place was de
fended by about fix thousand men, with ;
very numerous artillery mounted upon the
ramparts. On the 20th of Ottober a sum
mons was sent in by Gen. Cuftine, to sur
render ; with an afluraiice to the com
mandant of the city, Ki.t#Jkiiing was im
poflible to the troops oCßepublican France.
The commandant answered, thit he woulc
defend it to the 21ft. The French port:
were mceifantly cannonaded from the wall:
for upwards of 48 hours by 36 pounders,
but without effect, the balls being spent be
fore they came within 200 yards of tht
camp—in the evening a second summon:
was sent in to surrender, which was an
swered with articles of capitulation. Ii
taking this city only one foidier was killec
and two wounded.
The unfortunate French emigrants, whc
have been hitherto cantoned in the Auftri
au low countries, and who have worn the
white cockade and uniform, are now o
bliged to quit these marks of distinction
and to conform to the following mandate:
" The French Emigrants, attached to the
Bourbon princes, ihall remain no where
in the Austrian Netherlands except in the
places marked out for the cantonments oi
the army. All those found elsewhere are
to be arretted, by military force, if neces
sary, and sent back to the army ; and ii
cal'eof the molt trifling re!ifta/ice,to be pu
nished as enemies of the public peace.—
Such emigrants, whether clergy or laymen,
as do not actually keep house, as tenant
or owners, are from and after the 2d o:
November to be conlidered as vagrants,
and puniflied accordingly—Such as are no
difqualitied by the preceding article, are tc
give in an exact account of themselves
& their profelfion, & to obligate themfelve:
not to wear white cockades or feathers ii;
their hats.
The port of Nice, when taken by the
French, contained 500 galley llaves. Ol
these the deserters and smugglers were li
berated.
Notwithflanding the harvest was plenti
ful in Normandy, the want of hands tc
gather it in, from the diftra£ted state ol
the country, and the bad season for hou
sing, has caused an apprehenfionof fcarcitj
to be dreaded already. The magistrate:
of Rouen, the chief city of Normandy,
have borrowed 40,0001. to purchase grain,
and have laid a tax on the inhabitants ol
that diftrift to pay the interest.
The Pope, in iffuinghis Bulls, can afforc
little relief to the combined armies : the
Duke of Brunfwick had much rather thai
his holiness had iflued a few horses to aic
him in running away.
Italy and the Pope tremble with appre
hension ; a body of French troops are or
dered to land within forty miles of Rome
and the Pope'sforceshave refufed to marct
agaiuft them I the silver faints,&At>:nusDei's
the French fay, will repay theii expences.
A person alking what the hiliorian wil
hereafter fay concerning the Duke o
Brunfwick's campaign against the French:
was answered—
" Great Brunfwick's Duke, with four
score thousand men,
" March'd into France and the)
march'd out again."
The corporation and merchants of Li
verpool, purpose to petition parliament tc
lay open the East-India trade.
_ Some newspapers which pretend to ori
ginal intelligence, announced some time a
go the 23d of Otfober as the day for the
Duke of Brunuvick to enter Paris. It is r
remarkable circumstance, that on that ve
ry day he quitted France with his hall
starved army.
The king will pay some of the debts of
the Prince of Wales out of his own purse.
The Prince intends to relinquish his eftab
lilhment at Carleton house till his debt:
are discharged.
PARIS, October 29.
From every quarter we receive advice:
of the success of the French armies. Tin
republicans have only to shew themfelve:
before a place, and it inrtantly surrenders.
No where have they met with the least re
finance. The expences of the war become
more and more easy ; for the conquerec
towns supply them with the means. Ii:
some cities they raise contributions ; in o
thers they seize upon the church plate, and
melt it into coin, as they have done at
Nice.
They write from Brett, that at the Fete
which took place in that part, on the 18th.
to proclaim the republic, the old names ol
the mips of the line were changed for o
thers more analogous to the circumstance;
of the times.
I he Royal Louis is now called the Re
publican ; the Diadem, Brutus; the Scep
tre, the Convention ; the Two Brothers,
the J alt; the Duke ol Bourgogne, the Peo
ple ; the Duke of Chartres, the Racer ;
tlie Marshal de Caflries, the Cwi'^ir.
Accounts from Lyons state, that Tra
guet is gone to Civita- v'ecchia, or to one
ot the ports of the island of Sardinia : The
latter expedition seems the n.oft probable.
The conquests in the South are spread
ing every where. The convention have ap
plied to the magistracy of Genoa to lane
forces there, but were refufed. The)
threaten likewise to attack Turin, Milan,
and Naples ; but the latter city is ftrongl)
defended with batteries all round the bay.
For the purpose ot these expeditions, tfk
republic has now lying off the Hieres iil
ands, so well known for the render:'. oils o]
admiral Matthews, in the year 1744, wher
lie blocked up the French and Spaiiifl
fleets in the harbour of Toulon, nine mei:
of war and fourteen frigates, &c. on boarc
ot which troops are to be embarked. The)
are likewise getting ready gun and mortal
batteries. Government has hired thirty
transports : All this denotes great activitv
and zeal.
1 he pillage of Rome in the mean- time
iingularly excites the curiolity of the natioi;
who besides would take much pleasure ii:
Putting to flight the numerous b<wfy ol
>riefts which that famous city contains j
t is not expected that the people of Rome
ivould make more reliftance than the trocp:
if' the German circle.
The return of our agent from Stockholm.
:"ar from being looked on here as the ef
fects of oppolition from the Regent to out
lew government, palfed for an errand up
:>n some particular negociation. This fup
jolition is founded on the confidence
.vhich the duke of Sudermania has always
placed in this minister.
I wo deputies from Franckfort have ap
peared at the bar of the convention, pre
senting a petition from that city to be re
leased from the fine imposed 011 them by
M. de Cuftine. Their memorial was re
ferred to tlie diplomatic committee.
M. de Cuftine had ordered the horses
pd equipage of the elector of Mentz,
found by him in that city, to be publicly
"bid on the 10th inft.
The advance guard of the central army,
no w to be commanded by M. Bournonville,
marched 011 the 6th inft. for Mentz to re
inforce M. de Cuftine. The main body
followed on the 7th and Bth.
The artillery found at Mons consisted ol
p brass cannon, 19 brass mortars and 14
lowitzers ; 107 iron cannon. There were
uio 3000 bombs,3oo,ooo bullets, and 15000
.nil fleets.
Many officers of the ci-devant gardes du
:orps, and other emigrants, havefent peti
:ions to the Generals, requeuing leave to
Return to France, and imploring pity. M.
"Uftine, in a second letter, has entreated
:he national convention to decide upon
heir fate, as also upon the petitions of fe
deral Auftrians, who delire to be released
upon a promile of serving no more againfl
:he republic. The committee of legisla
tion have been ordered to consider this af
fair.
M. Dumourier has sent word to the nati
onal convention of an advantage obtained
by Field Marefchal Omoran over the Au
ftrians at Conde, in which a conliderabk
number ot the latter were killed. Their
wounded, whom they left upon the field,
were carried to Conde and treated witi;
the utmost care.
On the ill of November, the king and
his family, imprifonedin the temple, mads
the following demands of the coinmiffioii
;rs that waited on them : " That the ac
-ount of the expences to be allowed month -
ly should be fixed, in orde£_that they may
lot exceed them—A phyiician and apothe
cary, to administer such remedies as they
might think proper—the sum of 2000 livre?
laily, for their little expences—furniture
ind linen from the Garde Meuble.' The
:wo thousand livres were refufed, but the
commandant of the temple was ordered to
supply them with such little funis as he
(hould think neceflary.
For the National Gazette.
" No might nor greatness in mortality
Can censure 'scape : back-wounding calumny
The whitest virtue strikes."
THIS remark of the poet is strongly ex
emplified in the man, to whom a writer,
under the signature of " Mirabeau," has
offered the just tribute of republican ap
probation—The early and Heady friend of
his country; the firm but dignified oppo
nent to the trappings of royalty, and the
baubles of nobility ; the friend to merit in
whatever station or whatever garb it may
appear ; the enemy to every fyflem that
would degrade and corrupt the dear
bought principles of republicanism ; no
wonder that lie should incur the resent
ment of the would be noblejfe of the Uni-
ted States; no wonder that he Hiould
draw down upon himfelf their sire-os ven
geance, and the thunder of Catullus and
his glittering host. 44 In every age, in e
very nation, (said the immortal Mirabeau)
the partizans of arillocracy have implaca
bly persecuted the defenders of the peo
ple ; and if, by feme lingular concurrence
ot accidents, any such arose amongst the
members of their own order, he was mark
ed out as the particular object of their
j age, as they were eager to inspire terror
by the fele&ion of the vittim." The man
who has firmnefs enough to brave the al
friults ot the powerful in defence of juii;
principles, and virtue enough to remain
uncorrupted amid temptation; he who
Lonfiders it as a firfl duty to advance the
liappinels and prosperity of his country,
and considers his own as inti
mately incorporated with it, such a man
will meet v.ith the persecution of envy
-ind ambition, but he ought to be regard
ed as a melling to his country, and should
be cherilhed by every son of freedom.
Where are the heart-, I would alk, that
[attained, intrepidly sustained, an ar
iluons conteit for freedom during the late
revolution? Surely they are not all en
tombed in the funding system, the grave of
a brave soldiery; finely they are not all
filled into tie world of spirits to claim
the reward of a well spent life, and the
pittance of liberty which they have fought
lor here in vain : or are they languishing
:n obfeurity, pining with want, and call
ing down curses upon an unjust and an
ungrateful country? I trull the spirit of
Ireedom itiil has a being in America, that
the torch which has been kindled in France
will supply an additional flame, and that
iuftice, honor and gratitude will yet have
n refurreaioti. It has been said by "Mi
rabeau," that the abdication of Mr. Jeffer
(bn is an evil to the United States—This
there can be no doubt of; for tho' he has
been in office near four years, he has ne
ver aliumed the insolence of it—his deport
ment has been that of a republican, and in
no one a£tion orexpreflion has hemanifeft
ed a superiority over his fellow-citizens—
Can this be laid of the other officers of our
government ? It is certainiy of the highest
importance to preserve the equality of ci
tizens ; for the moment any one class of
citizens are imprefled with a belief that
they are an inferior order of beings, their
independence is destroyed. and the'ground
work of aristocracy is laid. It would be
well for the people to examine whether
this species of corruption is Mot already at
tempted—To me it appears demonstra
ble. It is of little moment whether we
have an aristocracy founded upon opinion,
or an aristocracy fanflioned by law ; in
deed, the one will beget the other, and the
effects will be the fame, for we are as
much the slaves of custom as laws can pof
bbly make us. It is said that an officer of
government cannot mix indiscriminately
with citizens, because it will employ too
much of his time, and the affairs of state
will be neglected—for this reason he has
fixed days for all to gaze upon him. Du
ring the administration of the grand pen
lionary De Witt the affairs of the republic
of Holland, (and they certainly were not
fewer andlefs important than ours,) were
as faithfully attended to as the affairs ol
any government required, and yet he vifi
tcd and engaged in all the amusements of
the citizens—it is not said whether his ivijt
was lb deeply engaged in the administra
tion, thatfhe was precluded from the com
mon etiquette of social life. Those per
fbus who are received as guests, and are
diftinguiflied by a particular attention,
seem to be a privileged order of men in
our government, and are, at least, a grade
removed from common citizenship ; for no
man can claim the right of equality, who
is excluded from any one privilege that a
nother citizen enjoys. Mr. Jefferfon has
uniformly observed a conduct which har
monizes with the purest principles of re
publicanism, and we have no assurance, if
we reason from what we know, that his
fuccelfor will be untinflured with the fa
ihionable follies of governmental station ;
I therefore conclude with Mirabeau, that
his abdication is an evil. It is not my wish
(God forbid that it should be the wish of
any freeman) that an individual /hould be
weighed in the balance again]} his country;
but when we meet with pure and difm
terefted patriotism, it is a mark of degene
racy not to render it its jtift deserts.
GRACCHUS.
Jan. ij.
For the National Gazette,
To the Travelling Farmer.
THE fails and information stated in No.
1 r« of the National Gazette, induce me to
alk your opinion on the best method to ob
tain good crops of flax in the middle states
of America, and information of the most
approved practice in Ireland in this parti-
C u 'JC you have COl "petent knowledge
thereof . As our general crops are far in
ferior to those made in other countries,
you will render an essential service to the
L nitedStates,if you can point out the cause
or causes thereof, and intimate the reme
dies. Tour offer to answer every enquiry
which ilia.ll be addrefied to you on agricul
tural subjects, induces me to hope your
speedy notice of this application, from a
farmer who is delirous to pronicte domes
tic manufa&ures.
Pennsylvania, January ro.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Friday, Jan. it.
A petition was read, from William
Stearns, adminiiTrator, praying compensa
tion for damages done to the buildings, &c.
of Peleg Stearns, at Charleflown, (M.) by
the army in 1775 —laid on the table—Also,
a petition of Peter Perrit, late a captain
in the Connecticut line, praying compensa
tion for services—Also, a petition from
John and Mary Moore, administrators,
praying compensation for services rendered
by John Cole, deceased, a soldier in the
1 ennfylvania line, during the war—Refer
red to the Secretary at war.
A letter was received from the Secreta
ry of the 1 rc-afury, with a supplementary
ltatement of loans, made on behalf of the
United States, pursuant to a refohition of
the 27th December 1792—laid on the table.
on motion of Mr. Smith, resolved that
the Attorney General be directed to report
at the nextleilion of Congress, a table of
colts and fees for the courts of the United
otates.
The Konfe then, in committee of the
whole, took up the motion of the 12th u)f.
for opening a loan to the amount of the va
lances, which, Jipon a final Settlement of
the accounts, fl;all be found due from the
United States to the individual slates.—
Debate took place 011 this motion till tie
hour of adjournment, when the resoluti
ons were reported without amendment.
_ Saturday, Jan. 12.
Apetition was read from Robert Heaton.
an tnghfh Yorkfliire farmer, who lately
lmigrated to this country with a large flock
of horses and cattle of the firft quality :
but has been obliged to give security for
the payment of 7 1-2 per cent, duty 011 his
property—He therefore prays exemption
therefrom, on the consideration, that the
payment of such duty will prevent many
of his-countrymen from emigrating to Ame
rica, with property of a similar nature—
Referred to a feleft committee.
Several other petitions were read, and
referred. -
The House then took into consideration
the report of the committee of the whole
011 the relolutions tor opening loans at the
treasury of the United States, and at the
loan offices of the individual states. for the
balances which may be due upon the iinal
lettlements of auonnts from the United
States to the individual slates.
The question being put, the refchticrs
were adopted-yeas 34, nays 28-3 torn
nnttee was then appointed to bring in a
bill conformably thereto.
Monday, Jan. 14.
A petition was preftnted and read from
the officers of the late Delaw are line of the
continental army, pi aying relidue of com
pensation, &c—Referred to a committee of
the whole house.
After the reading and referring some other
petitions, t.,e bill for fettling the claims of
perluns not barred by any a£l of limitati
-0"! which have not been heretofore
adjusted, was ordered to beengrofled for a
third reading.
. she House. then refwmed the considera
tion of the bill to regulate trade and inter
course with the Indian tribes—after some
aucumon and agreeing to several amend
ments, the bill was laid on the table till to
morrow.
Mr. Hartley laid a motion on the table,
01 appointing a committee to report a bi!>
.0 make provision of half-pay for the w'i
lows and orphans of officers in the service
jf the United States, killed since June i
f 784, or who may hereafter be killed while
11 that service.
A mefiage was received from the Prefi-
Jent of the United States, that he hadfign
. for eliabiii'hing a mint for a cop
>er coinage ; and the act for granting in
:ereft on a claim allowed by a resolution
. 3l tlle , late . Congress, indemnifying tUeper
ons therein mentioned.
A motion of Mr. Boudinot for takinp up
he consideration of the bankrupt bill, was,
rfter some difcuflion, withdrawn.
The House then went into a committee
->1 the whole on the memorials of the offi
cers of the several lines of the late army,
an the fubje£t of compensation for the refi
:lue of pay—two of those memorials being
read, Mr. Gerry moved a resolution, \n
lubftance, that the contrast between Con
jrefs and a part of the officers and soldiers,
in the late war, had not been fulfilled b*
Congress after some debate, this motion
was declared not in order, as referring on
ly to a part of thearmy—Mr. Madison fuj, -
pefted a variation of the proposition to the
limple quftion 01* the propriety of granting
the prayer of the petitions—Mr. Clarke
moved (in order to take the sense of the
committee) that the players of the petiti
ons cannot be granted, and that the petiti
oners have leave to withdraw their petiti
ons. Some debate ensued on this motion,
and after some time the committee rose
wuiiout coming to a decision.PHILADELPHIA.
January 16.
Extrall of a letter from France, dated Oc
tober j, 1792.
<< The abundant harvests you have been
favoured with, would have induced this
country to import grain from among you,
as we have laboured under a fcarcicy o!
that article, but it is my opinion that it
ought rather to be on the footing of go
vernmental contrails than an affair of indi
viduals. No merchant would dare to all;
his price, or even to receive the consign
ment of a cargo sent from abroad, as the
people consider every person who has the
smallest concern in the important article of
grain as monopolizers who are combine;:
to starve them, at the very moment they
are feeding them.—At present our govern
ment is procuring a supply from the gra
naries of the North, and I suppose will not
apply to you till this resource fails; the
prices being nearly the fame, and in other
refpeits supplies can be more speedily had
from the North, and with less risque of da
mage or Cpoiling—Tobacco is in demand,
betaufe the government has ordered fale>
thereof to be" I made, at any rate, to the old
farm of that article ; and lix months must
elapse before this circumrtance no longe;
■» influence; the price : From that time the
into France will not be verj
onliderahle. Exchange between Pari
and London is at 18 !-4d per 3 livres.
Extract of a letter from a gentleman i>
London, dated November 6, received b
the last Packet, to his friend in this city
" Yesterday being the sth of Nov. a.
effigy to represent the Duke of Brunfwick
dre(l exceedingly rich, was carried in tht
presence of innumerable fpeftators, thro
the borough, to be executed on Kenling
ton Common —adjoining the star on hi;
breast was printed in large capital letters.
no Manifefloes—and on a board which wa:
carried before him was printed UnivsrJ'a,
Liberty, and no Despots. When they arri
ved it the gallows, the following Procla
mation ws: read before his execution tools
place.—
' Oyes, Oyes, Oyes,
' Fellow Citizens,
' The Duke of Brunfwick having at
tempted to enflaveFrar.ee, in open violati
on of the eternal Rights of ,*lan, and laws
of Humanity and Juflice ; it has been de
termined to make a public example of
him, as well to prevent noble blunders
in future, as to convince mankind, at large
of tiie sUpreme dignity of their nature, anc
the united force of courage and virtue.
The Duke entered France under the mis
taken idea, that the French people were
da tardly enough to bend to the nod oi
princes; but as his confidence and resour
ces lay in his pride rather than in his capa
city, he withdrew, covered with Shame,
Confufion and Dijhonour, after having com
mitted crimes & blunders that have deserv
edly brought upon him the ridicule and
contempt of all Europe. He has had a fair
and impartial trial, and proofs appearing
so strong of his guilt, he is: now to atone tor
his rash temerity. His cafe will prove that
men poflefs masculine minds, and that at
the close of the 18th century, when en
lighted by science and reflection, they will
not be sported with, nor futfer tyrants of
any kind to escape with impunity !
4 GIVEN at Kensington Common, this
jth day of November, one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-two, in the
name of Liberty, Ejuality and the
Rights of Man.
" He was then executed in due form,
and after hanging the usual time, was set
fire to and consumed to alhes, together
with his gallows, amidst the (houts and ac
clamations of an immense concourse ot
spectators, who immediately after dispers
ed and retired to their refpeitive homes, in
the utmost tranquility and good order."
We learn by a private letter from Dub
lin, that the commotions in Ireland are
confiderable—lt fays, " That a paper was
fixed up in Dublin on the Barrack and C;<f
tle gates, with the words, NO KING AND
LIBERTY : On which a privy council
was called, and orders given to the com
mander in chief to repair to the barracks —
there, he interrogated, whether they knew
or were privy to the porting up of laid pa
pers ? they all remained silent ; he then
informed tliem, that if any of them were
difatisfied with the service, they might be
discharged, but no answer was returned.
Next morning a frefh paper, to the fame
purport, appeared on the fame places ; on
which a Royal Proclamation was issued, in
♦ .hich the Lord Lieutenant and Council
d, " That if any soldier should be
deteftpd in porting up any seditious paper,
or, on oath should be proved, privy there
to, he should receive 500 ladies, and be ex
pelled the service ; and, if any foreigner
should be dete&ed, having the book enti
tled the Rights of man, -written by Tlwmas
Paine, he should be indicted as a felon."
" A citizen observes, that now titles in
the civil line are dying daily, it is high
time those in the ecclesiastical ihould be a
bolilhed. To give the title of Reverend to
any man, he he who he may, is not only an -
ti-republican, but absolutely blasphemous—
Reverend only belongs to the Supreme Be
ing—we read, " holy and reverend is his
name''—no more of your reverends among
poor frail mortals." [Boston Gaz.] To
this might be added, that the title of the
iuperior clergy is absurd : when a Biftop
is Oyled a Rig'it Reverend ; it is evidently
implied that the whole host of the inferior
clergyarelVrong Reverends ; and that ma
ny of them are moll woefully on the ititong
tide of the question, in point of temporal
enjoyments, every day's observation may
teftify—witnefs many of the curates in
England performing the subordinate ser
vice of two or three parilhes, for 15 or 20
pounds a year ! —
It is (aid, that some of the German fe
males, who are intermarried with the Bri
cilh royal family, have been endeavouring
to form a party, to propose to the parlia
ment an interference favourable to the
BrunfwickandPrullianwaragainft France;
jut the plan was over-ruled in the privy
:ouncil. Whether the queen has been a
nember of this party is uncertain : it is
aid however, with confidence, that (he has
>eeu for Tome time pail transmitting im
nenfe funis into Germany, for fear of the
lay of evil thing; in Great Britain.
A Cadiz paper mentions, that a comraev
:ial treaty is certainly negociating between
:he Court of Madrid and the United States
of America ; and many of the Cadiz me'r
;hants were in high spirits, in hopes that it
must Drove considerably beneficial,not only
to their country in general, but to themselves
in particular.
The intelligence in our last, of a truce
having taken place between the Austrian
and French armies (received by way of
Boston) appears to be without foundation.
Accounts from Portugal (late that ths
queen is absolutely mad, coniidered as in
curable, and hardly any longer spoken or
thought of in her own country. Her foil,
the Duke of theßrazils, has a.Tumed the di
rection of the government, under the title
of Prince Regent.
On Friday last arrived at New-York, a
vefi'el in 49 days from Havre de Grace, and
011 Sunday the (hip Paragon, in the fame
number of days from Liverpool. The in
telligence brought by these velfels confirms
the former accounts of the combined ar
mies having evacuated France ; of the Au
trian Netherlands being almolt wholly in
the hands of the French; and the king of
Sardinia absolutely deprived of the greater
jart of his dominions. The French were
ilfo turniogtheirattentlon to theirmarine;
Icsts were fitting out in great force, borfi
for the Mediterranean and the-Weft In
dies, and there was little doubt, but Italy,
Sicily, and Naples, would be in the power
of the French republic in lefsthan a twelve
month—lb weary are the people of the old
tyrannic governments, under which they
have groaned for so many fuccellive ages.
Gen. Fayette continues closely confined
in the state prison of Spandau, in Pruflia ;
to which he was removed from Wefel, in
Luxembourg. He lu.s been several times
in danger of losing his life, from the exas
perated French emigrants.
Seven of the Wabajlt Indians, lately ar
rived in this city, have died of the fm:'U
pox ; two of whom took it in the natural
way, the other five had been innocula
ted.
William Stabler, who lately abfeonded
from his creditors in this city, has been
pursued to Amsterdam, and from thence to
London, where he was taken, and now
lies confined in the King's Bench Prison.
Intimations are given in a Boston paper,
that Le Courier Politique de PUtiivers, a
new French and English paper, printed at
Boston, is 011 the " Aristocratic fide of the
queftion"—lts lefttence may therefore be
speedily pronounced by all free Ameri
cans.
A Protest against the French revolution
has been recently entered in the office of a
notary public in Boston, by 24 Frenchmen,
there resident. Common complailance to
the prevailing opinions of a nation ought
tuput gentlemen upon their guard, in at
tempts of this nature. We distinguish be
tween regenerated and despotic France,
and altho' we would disdain to persecute
the few remaining friends of the latter,
their own peace and happiness, while here,
Teems to require a refpectful silence.
•
A letter from a member of Congress to
his friend in Richmond, after mentioning
the late fuccefles of the French, goes on as
follows : —As to us, we proceed as usual,
and will continue to do so, until the full
number of the representatives comes on,
or the jaws of the cavern of darkness are
thrust open. The high-tiyers are a little
humbled, at the intelligence of Clinton's
refpeftable vote, and the news of equal li
berty prevailing in France."
It is mentioned in the Pittfburg Gazette,
that the moment Congress cedes the coun
try weft of the Ohio to the Indians, the
Britifli stand ready to purchase it, with a
view to induce the citizens of these ft3tes
to fettle under their government; and in
time set us at variance with each other to
answer their own purposes.
We are Informed, by an arrival at Hart
ford, that the mulattoes of St. Domingo
are strain at variance with the whites; have
taken all the out forts in the neighbour
hood of Cape Francois, and appear de
termined to hold them ; that there was
no communication any longer with the
; and that jooj of the national
[i oops are sick and unfit for military du
tj •
John Brown, Esq. is unanimonfly re-e
---lectfrd ;y the legislature of .Kentucky to
rep -et: - it that tfate, as senator in the Uni
ted States, for lix year 3 from the 4th of
March next.
L'etters are said to be actually received
11 New York, from London, mentioning
that Mr. Pitt had sent in noticeto the king
as his wifli to resign. This, if true, fore
bodes some extraordinary convulsion in
:h« Britiih government. Scotland and
Ireland faiemdetermined for a reform.—
Vli. Pitt was the firft to propose a reform
n the parliament, to ingratiate himfell"
.vith the people. This introduced him
nto parliament. He has ever lince oppo
ed a reform, but fiiice a concurrence of
tircumftances has made it impofilble but
hat a reform mult take place it is proba
>ls he chooses to retire from the inipend
ng tempeft.—Hisgeneral conduct does not
eem to resemble that of the great charac
x'rs of antiquity, which he once proposed
to cop- :
' Domcflic peace, external fame
With patriot leal their labours fought;
Vi ' I'nr'i or A theris* sacred name
[alyir (1 and governed every thought.
VY up then, in this prefumptuou# hour
to Ihare the Athenian's praise ?
I'he tool confefsM of kingly power
T"he EJcbints of modern days—
What chosen name to Tully's join'd
Is now announe'd to distant climes!
Behold to lasting shame eonfign'd
The Catalin e of modern times. 1 '
The following is related as a fail :
George the third being at table a few
months ago, with a select party, of whom
the Prince of Wales made one, the con
versation turning upon royalty, the king
hastily observed to the prince—" George,
take my word it depends upon yon, whether
in ten years there will be a jingle crowned
head in Europe !
[From the Stockbridge Weflern Star, of
Jan. B.]
•' Many of the officers of the late army,
have petitioned, and are again about peti
tioning Congress, for further compenjation.
It is almost needless to mention that
the country at a time it was under
the molt embarralling circumftauces,
(trained every nerve to make lip the
stipulated commutation, under the ful
led perfualion, that no further claim
would be made on the government !
Are these gentlemen, in general, ina bet
ter or worse situation now, than they
were at the time they entered the army ?
If it appears to you, as it does to me, that
enough has already been done for those
officers, you will be cautious not to vote
for fu:h who are intereftediit applications
to Congress, to make further allowances
for Jervices during the late war.''''—And
again,—"The officers of the late Continen
tal army have been for some time pad pe
titioning Congress for further compensa
tion for their services ; this measure,
though a darling one to them, is, never
thelels, a very unpopular one, and, in rnj
opinion, a very unreasonable one ; foi
however great their merits, they were as
amply rewarded, as the circumllances of
the country would admit, or as they real
ly ought to be, under those circumOances;
for if their demands are just, (being found
ed merely on the depreciation of their pay,]
not a citizen scarcely in the United States,
but has a demand as well founded, for de
preciation of pay for Victualling, cloathina
and foraging the army ; and fhculd ali
these demands be allowed, the revenues
of the United States would not be a fund
adequate to the discharge of the interest.'
The good news from France ought tt
give joy to all mankind, as it opens a prof
peSt of happiness to the whole humar
rate —such a profpeft as the history of the
world hardly, it at all, affords, from the
earliest periods to the present day. Man
kind have, for many ages, been kept under
bondage and oppression, and their rights
have so long been disregarded by their ru
lers, that they seem totally to have lofl
fight of them, and forgot that they had anj
rights 2t all. They have been taught tc
look upon their rulers as theirmaflers, and
theinfelves as made for government, and
not government for them, i. e. solely for
their benefit. King-craft and prieft-crafl
combined, have, for ages, kept the human
mind in fetters, and the world in the moll
slavish state ofignorance and bondage ; but
the revolution in America has called up
the attention of the world to these impor
tant fubjefts : The mystery of iniquity be
gins to be unveiled, ignorance and fuper
tfition are rapidly retiring before the illu
minating influence of Common Ser.fe, and
tyranny literally retreating before the
Rights of Man ; and it is hoped the world
will soon be convinced, that neither ty
rants nor slaves will be able to ward off
the attacks of Paine.
[From a late London Paper.
Great Britain is to supply the French
with every neceflary they want for the e
quipment of their troop;. It feeins that
this country is to cloath as well as feed
them. One merchant only in this city has
received an order for cloth to the amount
of 80,0001. fteriing. Another order for the
fanje article has been lent to York, to the
value of 2j,0001. Another house has :e
---ceiVed a commifllon for 2£,0c0 pair of
blankets, at 225. the pair, which is more
than double the price of what this article
used to cost in France, before the revolu
tion.
Mr. Freheau,
THE following amiable, and truly beco-
Wing picture ol the French,and French re
volution is taken from the Connefiicut Cou
rant (printed at Hartford) of January 7.
Sorry I am that any writers in America
should be l'o vile and prostituted as uni
formly to abuse a Revolution which is re
vered by every friend to freedom, and ca
lumniated in this country only by the base
tools of ariftoci acy i,nd monarchy. The
discerning reader will on perusal, cry out
Expede Sat an am.
15 The French finding themselves duped
by c;ie religion, they reuerally imbibed a
■Jifgult again ft all. They took but one itep
from bigotry to infidelity. Few 01 them
retained a reverence for chriltianity—few
of them flopped even at deism. They be
came generally, and now are sceptics.—
They called in queffion the being and at
tributes of the Deity. They doubted the
immortality of the foul, and denied a fu
ture state of rewards and punishment. This
mutely system of doubt and scepticism,
borrowed from the atheillic tenets of Epi
curus, Hobbs, and Spinoza, is at length be
come the prevailing creed in France, and
dignified by the name of modern philolb
phy.
The druggies of the nation against mo
narchical deipotifm have been marked by
the fame want of moderation, and ftil.l
more disgraced by the violence of the paf
lions. From this source have been derived
all the misfortunes, which they have hi
therto felt, and which for a considerable
time they mult cccciiarily continue to feel.
France had it in her power to have been
happy, almost by a lingle tffort. At an
early period of the contest, the king open
ly favored a reformation in government.
The firit exertions gave to the people, an
house of representatives, by free election.
This is the grand security of liberty, and
110 nation while it continues, can ever be
enslaved. The circumrtances of France,
totally different from thole of America, na
turally pointed out for them a oonftitution
limilar to that of Great-Britain, but which
Ihould extend more equally the rights of
fuftrage, and he better guarded against the
arts of corruption and the influence of the
court. The king readily submitted to a
fufficient limitation of his prerogative. A
Senate might have been constituted fr; m
the chief of the nobility as in England, or
perpetuated as in Scotland by free elec
tion : And the house of representatives
would have formed a fufficitnt barrier a
gainrtallul'urpationsof monarchical orarif
tocratical power. This was the plan of
the amiable, but unfortunate Marqriis La
Fayette. He fell a vittim to his own mo
deration, and the violence of his ene
mies.
For the leaders of the French revoluti*
on, having succeeded indeftro)inga ty
rannical government, made an immediate
attack on government itfelf. Happily bro
ken loose from the chains of liefpotifm,
with all the enthtifiafm of newly recovered
freedom, and all the madness of revenge
ful passion, they rushed headlong into per
fect anarchy. They inculcated the pure
doctrines of levellifm. They d.throned
the king, degraded the nobility, banifhetl
the clergy, confifcated an immei fe pro
perty by a vote, mafi'acred thoufancis v ith
out a trial, and after having been guilty of
more wanton atts of tyrannical barbarity,
than have in this century disgraced all the
annals of despotism, have left their Nation
al Aflembly, without power, and without
afliflance, to be governed and insulted by
the mob of Paris.
The author of the defence of the Ame
rican confiitutions searched all history for
the illuflration of his political opinion ;
but he found not so glaring a proof the ne
ceiiity of proper checks and ballances in
government, as has been since furnilhed in
the course of the French revolution, by
the conduct and success of the Jacobin
faction."
PRICE OF STOCK S 4
National Bank Stock 36
N- American 3J
Six per cents. 2C/4
Deferred, 12JG
Three per cents, iyi[Continuation of the Debate on Mr.
Steele's motion for the redu&ion of
the Military Establishment of the Uni
ted States ]
~[\ j~, j S PEELE observed, that he
J.";-J. doubted not the committee would
give the fubjeft a conlideralion fnited to
its importance ; if in the course of discus
sion it fliould not appear of tliat impor
tance he had deemed it to b«, they will
treat it accordingly. He fliould not have
risen thus early in the debate, if the gen
tleman last speaking had not controverted
his calculation! by some of his own, with
out (hewing f what fonrce he had ta
ken them. Here Mr. Wadfworth refer
red to the appropriation bills, the princi
pal part of which, he said, he had read.
Mr. Steele proceeded—he recapitulated
the substance of his several statements, to
(hew the progreflive encreafe of the ex
pends of the war department. He de
clared hi [life If superior to any persona!
corifideraiions. or of private pique against
the Secretary of War; and in refpeft to
the Pr fident of the United States, he
prof 'Jed the warmed attachment to his
person and chara£ter. In coming for
wai !on thin occasion, he was actuated by
motw.s of public conlideiation, from a
convx u on that the system now pursued
won ove perni ious in the end.
• ■ r \ ... fworth rose to explain: he
difcivmed all personal considerations ; h«
thought 1 imfelfas much superior to them
as the gentleman i -ft speaking. The modi
of treating the fubjeel adopted by tha'
gentleman had dr. wn forth some remark:
from him, which he considered as ltriAl)
proper, and which be fliould not have dons
his duty not to have made.
Mr. Hartley was again ft adopting th<
motion under the prelent circumltauces o:
the country, and he entered into a parti
cu'ir inveitigation of the merits of th<
qneflion—When the last law for the more
effectual pr reftion of the frontiers pa (Ted
the fubjedt now under confederation wa.
very fully and ably difcufied, and the gen
tlemen who were averse to the augmenta
tion, had ieveral alterations made to satis
fy them.
Inflead of the President's being obliged
to raise the whole of the three regiments,
he was to exercise his difcrstion either tc
make the augmentation complete, or raise
a part, and had authority to disband them
after raised. The rath feftion of the law
is thus expiefTed, " That it shall be law
ful for the President of the United States
to forbear to raise, or te disband after they
shall be raised, the whole or any part ol
the three additional regiments in cafe e
vents shall in his judgment render his fc
doing confident with the public fafety."
We fh uld therefore consider, vvhethei
circumflances have so materially changer
since that time as to render it proper thai
the legifbture fliould interfere, repeal the
powevs given to the Prefidcnt, and dis
charge the three regiments.
This necessarily leads us firft, to view
the fi'ua ion of our finances, and the state
of the frontiers at, and immediately be
fore the time of palling the law.
The extent of our revenue was not as
well known then as at present, and every
good man deprecated the misfortune
which obliged him to encreafe the taxes.
The war was a disagreeable one, but
neceflary, if peace could riot be otherwifi
obtained.
The legislature considered the expence
and were of opinion, that we had mean;
and abilities to defray the fame.
Many murders and ravages had beer
' committed by the savages on the fron-
army had fuffered in the yeai
1790, and nearly a whole army cut off or
the 4th of November 179 1. And wt
have every reason to suppose, that the In
dians wou d ail in great force against us.
Our finances are (till refpedlable—it i:
true, I fliould be happy if we could apply
the money towards uifcharging the na
tioiral debt already contra&ed, but the un
fortunate situation of ourfrontitrs prevents
it.
War—though an evil, may (from the
present disposition of the world) be some
times neceflary, when nations are unrea
sonable, and justice cannot be otherwifc
had.
Hostilities have lately been committed
on our troops commanded by Major A
dair, and several of the southern tribes
shew themselves inimical, and we have no
absolute assurances that we shall have peace
in the spring—The agreement by forre
tribes to a fufpeniion of hostilities, was
convenient to them, as it prote&ed their
tainiliss for the winter.
If the great object of the additional ar
mament wa3 io obtain peace; Sethis is not
yet eftc-fted, may we proivi fe ourselves
more 1 uccefs in negociation by laying
dowa our arms, or by retaining them ?
History is in favor of the latter.
Indeed I hold it as a maxim, that the
nation, which is prepared for war, can
molt ealily obtain peace. For my owa
part, I tan discover no exiting causes ior
altering the system established by the a<£fc,
to which I have before referred.
i he expence has been made a very seri
ous obje&ion: it ought to have weight; but
where measures have bten proper, Ame
rica has not regarded it. She has freely
expended her treasure to support her
rights.
We are bound in juflice and honour to
protect our fellow citizens on the frontiers:
we demand from them an excise—They
require from the general government pro
tection.
I am for making peace with all the In
dians upon reafonablg terms ; but any
country that has been fairly purchased
from the Indians, they should not be per
mitted to re pol'. fs or hold by conquelt.
If an ofFenfive war be neceflary, fays
the gentleman from N. Carolina, regiiflar
troops are not the mod proper to carry ft
on, i hey .ire more expensive and uypfit
to meet the fava ;cs of the wilderness. As
to the expence I have partly answered be
i ore ; but if the gentleman is to have five
expeditions in one year, I be'ieve he would
find that his calculations are not corrcCi :
u misfortune to either detachment or pr.r
'Y would bear very hard upon the diftrift
ihey came from ; the partial loss of regu
<\r'•?, would not be equally felt, very few
sf them having families.
I have a hig.'i opinion of the back-wood d
riflemen, but I am confident that we can
n t certainly rely upon their turning out
is often as they might be wanted ; we
rould not relv on such uncertainty, and
yet this isjoffered as a favorre projedt.
If you cannot rely upon them, you may
ay that the ordinary militia can be draft
id, you would find them unfit for such a
.ervice, they would in general be comnof
;d of substitutes unexperienced and undif
cipliried, and it would be unfair to take
ihem all from the frontiers, & foineof tht
dates, or lealt one, have no militia laws—l
am for retaining the regular troops.
ihe Prefidcnt has prat.ifed ceconomy
in organizing the troops voted for, and I
im tolJ they have made considerable pro-
in discipline ; they are formed intc
legionary corps, composed cf horse, rifle
men, lighi-infantry, and battalion men,
The three former will be fit for a&i\e fer
"ice in the field, the latter for the com
mon duties of the camp or garrison. The
printer mistook my expreflion the othei
Jay in speaking of regular troops. Inlteac
r>f faying, there was no instance where re
?ular troops had been beat by Indians ;
I mentioned " there was no initance dur
ing the late war where regular troop;
were beat by an equal number of Indians.
[ here repeat the lame observation.
I will allow volunteers and militia thei;
ull credit ; but I do not think the regu
lar tro ps merit the disparagement at
LCii.p.ed—Volunteer corps have not bee
free from misfortunes.
Colonel Crawford at the head of yoc
volunteers from Virginia and Pennfylvc
ma, v-as defeated in the weflern country,
add he was burnt at the (take. General
Braddock, it is said, was obstinate, arc
his European troops were undifciplinrj
for such a service. The army under Ge
neral bt. Cinir was 1011, becanfe the mei
were undisciplined and unfitted for the ser
vice.
I can mention several inilances where
regular troops have penetrated the Indi
p.n country, among warlike tribes, with
iuccef.i: Colonel Montgomery into the
Cherokees ; Col, Arroftrong to the Kit
tanig ; Colonel Boquet's campaign ol
1763 and 1764. Three detachments ol
the American army in the year 1 778 ; one
undei the command of Gen. Broadheud ;
one under Lieut, Col. Butler, and the lafl
commanded by your humble servant, pene
trated the country possessed by the fix na
tions. Neither of the detachments was
large j and the la'l had to contend againfl
superior numbers.
In Gen. Sullivan's campaign the year
following, his vsn-guard beat an equal, if
not a superior number of Indians.
I might mention the Roman legions ;
they almost constantly were fuccefsfal a-
gainst those they called barbarians, until
their enemies adopted the Roman disci
pline.
1 reprobate the idea of a ftandingarmy
which might endanger the of this
country ; but I consider the troops con
templated in the ast of Congress, to be
nbfolutcly neceflary until peace (ball be ob
tained : and therefore shall vote againlt a
reduction.
Every step has been taken, and I dart
fay will be pursued by the Prelidcnt, topro
cure a peace without bloodlhed. Our
meflengers of peace have in some places
been murdered, and yet he has sent ir.ef
fengers to others.
I have a high opinion cf the persona!
bravery and ptowefs of an Indian ; but
I do deny that they can a<& to the best ad
vantage in large bodies. They have not
an experience of that kind ; difciplintd
troops would have the advmtage—When
I speak of disciplined troops, I mean s
uifciphne fitted to the country and enemy
they are to ast against.
To be continued.
PKI EE CURRANT. *
a : Dollars. Cents.
rWSHf'.S, pot per ton 9od to too-.
pearl ditto 137 c! la 14CC
Bacon. flitches per lb 8t
ilioulders do 7.
Beef, Boston per b-rrel 7;! to b
Country do Mtoji
Beer, American in bottles
including bottles per doz. id 801
ditto per barrel 5;! 33t
Bees wax per lb 2'c 28c
Brandy, Coniac per gal t.cc 93c
common do 75c 821
Butter in kegs per lb iL'C 13.
Cheese, Country per lb 8c 10;
hngliih
Chocolate jßc 20c
Coal. per bu ' el 20c 22c
Codfilh per cv, t 3d 50.
Coffee per lb icc 171
Copperas per cwt idi
Cordage, American per cwt 7d 67c : c
Cotton per lb 26c 351
I'lax per lb 13c
Flaxfeed per bulh 90c id ici
Hour, Superfine per barrel jd 67c
Common 5d 12c
Bur-midlings, bed 4d 501
Meal Indian 3d ici
Rye, do 3d 3 - c
~-m, Holland per cafe 4d 331
;; per gallon 80c 8-c
C> infeng, 20c 24c
C unpowder, Fine .glazed per q c 41]
f jrain, Barley perbulhel id id 3c
Best (helled per lb 3c
Buckwheat per bufliel 401
Indian corn 5 ;i
Jersey, do s ~,
Oats 3S ,
Rye 601
Wheat rd 31
Hams per lb 10c 1 r 1
Hemp, imported per ton nod i_.6d 6yi
American per lb 4c 5c
Hides, raw per lb 9c 11 <
Hops 2 ~<
Honey per lb 4-
Indigo, Carolina per lb id id 20c
I'reach id 20c id, ;c
Iron, Ba, per ton
Callings per cwt 3d 471
Nail-rods per ton nod me
Pig 24d 26d 671
Sheet 173 d 33c
Irons, fad 133 33c
Lard, hogs per lb ioc iii
Leather, i'oal per lb 14c 17c 20c
Myrtle wax per lb i 2(
Molafles per gallon 53c 57,.
Mustard, flower, in bot...per doz id 201
fi'coiid quality, perdu:: 871
Nails, 8d iod i2d and 2od per lb 10c
Oil, Li ifeed per gallon h?<
Olive " 87c
per cafe 2d 501
Pepper per lb 38:
Pimento ,8c 191
Pitch per'obi id 73c 2<
Porter per calls jd 33c
London per doz id 6o<
Amer. bot. inclu. id 4c id 6c:
Pork, Burlington, per bbl iod 67c ik
Lower county io<
Carolina m
Rice per cwt 2d 881
Ruin, Antigua per gal 1,
Baroadoes 87c
Country, N.E. 65c 67c
Jamaica id 7c
Saltpetre per cwt I4d 33c
Salt, Allum, per bulh 44;
Cadiz
Lilbon 27c
Liverpool 47 t
Snake root per lb 20c 421.
Snuff, per doz. bottles 4d ;d 6oc
- per lb 33c 40c
Soap, Brown per 2b 6c
White g c
Starch per lb y c
Sugar, Havannah, white, per lb 17c 18c
Brown IIC 12c
Muscovado per cwt 13d 15c!
Lump per lb 24c
Loaf, single refined, 25c
double ditto, 36c
Tallow, refined, per lb o C
Tar, Newjerfey 24 S alp'erb'ol id
t Carolina, 32 gal ld 33c , (l 6 . c
Tea, Hyson per tb 93c id 28c
Souchong ' ioc 93c
Holies. 36c
Tobacco, Jamesßiver, best 3d 60c 73 c
Inferior 3d 33c
w 4<i 67c
Kappahannock 3d 03c
Coloured Maryland S'.c 8d
? ark , . « 2d 40c
Long-leaf 2 d 40c
Ealtern-fhore od 2 d 23c
Carolina, new 2d 7c ?d
Old
Turpentine per bbl d 67c 3d
Wme, Madeira,p. p. j 7 6d 200d r 226d 67c
Lisbon Jq;c j '
Teneriffe per gal J J,
sherr y id ioc.
Philadelphia & New-York
stages,
" y WAY OF
BURLINCTCN, EORDEItTON, & SOUTH.
AM EOT—
WJ' L "V.f S f m " e/ Cccftr's Ferry, oppo
(ite to I luladelphu, every Sunday and VVed
n-fday morning, during the winter season, ar,d
arrive at Sooth-Arrboy on Monday, andThurfd-v
evenirgs-whcre a s „.,d boat will be ready to cop
vey G°°ds and Paftengers to New-York.
The Stage boats will leave New.York eve-vk
Monday and Thu,(day, To „s to meet the St,„X
'.om i .;/laddphia at Amboy, lo proceed fv- r
' ide'phta next dry. All Barrage belonging to
;>a/»en ? ers:o be at »: -If own rrkjuc.
All Gu »ds forwarded by the Stages on bill, to
be under the particular care of" the Proprietors of
S'ajfs ; but not warranted against robbery or
dam.- — An:'all in*, clearing and permits
to be paid by the owners ot goo.:i,
I'rice 0; a paifage from Cooper's ferry to New.
*, k r , " - £0. jB. O.
2CCI b. ot Goods, to pay the price of a paflaee
AH Way 11 jfiengers, pel mile.
»~ < ? I S „ Ht ' TCI,,N ' ?Fo'Burlin.-
NICriOLAS SCHENCK, J ton line.
VAN CMtURGH 1- M : KEAN 7 For Borden
and D'WID VvILLIAMSON, f ton line?
December 24, , 7g2 . [xaw.ew.
i erres i Vendre
Djr.s un pan bun peuple',—
SA . O R, foixanie cir.q miiie, trois cens, foix
an;e et quatorze Aires, en une fenle piece,
dans le canton le micux de la Caroline Me
ridionalc, le DiftuS de Ninety.Six. Ces terres
loot hti Ees dans une contrce agreable, et falubre,
>u lei Vivres font inconnoef; a environ vingt lieues
deCoiomb.e, la Capitale, et co'ntigues ala villa
Je Cambridge, nil y a College, et Cour fjperi
eure. A environ riouz; lieues, iJ y a bonne nave
gatinn ; et il eft tres probable, que dans quelqui
turns on nndti navigable le Grand Salude, riviere
■ arrc • Its terres mimes. Elles font agreable
•nent diverfiliees de coteaox et vallons charmans,
prouirs a ia culture du tabac, ou coton, du malt.
ft dn petit gram ; et dont une proportion confider
«oie le peut atfement convertir e# prairies fertiles.,
ilneeft peut-etre gueres poliible de rencontrerune
pareil!e piece de terre a vendre dans aucun autre
des E'.ats Unis; et pour les conditions de I'ach at
on .es rendra tres commodes.
o'in former a rimprimerie de la Gazette Na
onale - Sept. 5.
LANDS FOR SALE,
TN a well fettled Country. SIXTY-FIVE
THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY-FOUI* 'CRES OF LAND, in one
budv, in the niuft populous part of the state of
South-Carolina, id chediitndl of Ninety-ilx---It
is HtuaCed in a fine healthy climate,free from fever
& ague,about sixty miles from Columbia, the feat
• t j he land is contiguous to the
town ciy ain bridge, where are a seminary for the
millu£ti< nof youiii, arid a fuperiorlaw court. It
is at {.relent within aN >ut thirty-five miles of good
navigation, with a j ><, i liry of having the river,
:alled (he Great Saluoa, that flows along one fide
01 cue land, made uav The land is beauti
i ally d|vt; lified into swells and vales, and is per-
wcii c iculated tor the culture of tobacco,
cotton, Indian corn, and small grain; a great
proportion otic may be made meadow ground*
There is not, per f ljC • a body of land, focir
cumftanced, for f.il? in any otherof the U: States.
I he terms or payment will be made convenient to
the purch .v»r or purcbifeis. Apply to the Printer.
Auguftag. lawt f
notice.
ALL persons having demands against the estate
of Godfrey farrlcre*, late of Bucks County,
deceas'd, are requested to exhibit their accounts,
properly authenticated, in order for settlement
And those who are indebted to said estate to make
immediate payment, to
JOHN HOUGH, Adminillrator.
Eucks County, Dec. 2S, 1792. 4t.iaw
+
Forfait, at the printing office, a few copics
of thefirjl volume of the National Gazette,
Mamniaannai iww himi j n 1 m——■mmmmt
PRINTED BY
CIIILDSand SWAINE,
AT THEIR OFFICE KOi 209* HIGH-STREET
5 EAR FIFTH- STREET)
EIIILADELPHIAt