[Numb. 19 of Vol. ll.] WEDNESDAY, January 2, 1793.
LET T E R
From Thomas Paine to the people of France.
" Paris, Sept. 25.
" Fir ft year of the Republic.
" Fellow Ciiixent !
"T RECEIVE, with affe£iion?.te grati-
A tude, the honour which the late na
tional aflemb!) has conferred upon me, by
adopting me a citizen of France : ant'
the additional honour of being eledled by
my fellow citizens a member of the nati
onal convention. Happily imprefTed, ;u
I am, by those teftimonit3 of refpt£l to
wards meat an individual, I feel my feli
city incrcafed by feeing the barrier broken
down that divided patriotism by spots ol
earth, and limited citizerifhip to the foil,
like vegetation.
" Had those honours been conferred in
an hour of national tranquility, they would
have afforded no other means of (hewing
my affection, than to have accepted and
enjoyed them , but they come accompani
ed with circumltances that give me the
honourable opportunity of commencing
my citizenlhip in the stormy hour of diffi
culties. I come not to enjoy repose.—
Convinced that the cause of France is the
cause of all mankind, and that as liberty
cannot be purchased by a w(h, 1 gladly
{hare with you the dangers and honour-.
ntcefTiry to success.
" I am well aware, that the moment
cf any great change, such as 1 hat accom
plifhed o 1 the loth of August, i 3 una
voidably the moment of terror and con
/ufion. The mind highly agitated by
hope, suspicion and apprentfnfion, conti
nues without reft till the change be ac
com.phfhed. Bu; let us now look calm
ly and confidently forward, and success i:
certain. It is .no longer the paltry
cause of kings, or of this, or of that in
dividual, that C' '• France and her armies
into action. It is the great C3ufe of all.
It is the eftablifrsment of a new asra, that
shall blot defpotilm f.om the earth, and
tix on the lasting principles of peace and
citizenlhip, the great republic of man.
" It has been my fate to have borne a
{hare in the commencement and complete
eftablilhment of one revolution (I mean
the revolution of America.) The success
and cvent» of that revolution are encou
raging to us. The prufperity and hap
piness that have since flowed to that coun
try, have amply rewarded her for all the
hardfliips (he endured, and for all the
dangers foe encountercJ.
" The principles on which that revolu
tion began, have extended themselves to
Europe: and on over ruling providence
is regenerating the old world by the prin
ciples of the new. Thediftance of Ame
rica fjom all the other parts of the globe,
did not admit of her carrying of those
principles beyond her own situation. It i:
to the peculiar honour of France, that flit
now raises the (tandard of liberty for all
nations; and in fighting her own battles,
contends for the rights of all mankind.
" The fame spirit of fortitude that in
sured success to America will insure it to
France, for it is impossible to conqlier a
nation determined to be free ! The mili
tary circumstances that now unite them
selves to France, are such as the despots o;
the earth know nothing of, and can form
no calculation upon. Tkey know not
what it is to fight against a nation.—
They have only been accustomed to make
war against each other ; and they know
from system and pra&ice, how to calcu
late the probable success of despot againfl
defpot,and here their knowledge aad theii
experience ends.
" But in a contest like the present, .
new and boundless variety of circumstan
ces arise, that derange all such customary
calculations. When a whole nation acts
as an army, the despot knows not the
ester.; of .the power against which he con
tends. New armies rife against him with
the necessity of the moment. It ;s then
that the difficulties of an invading enemy
By P. FR E N EA U : Publijhed Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
multiply, as in the former cafe they dirri
r.ifhed, and he finds them at their height
when he expe&ed them to end,
" The only war that has any similari
ty of circumllanccs with the piefent L
;!:e late revolution war in America. On
her part, as it now is in France, it was a
war of the whole nation There it was
that the enemy, by beginning to conquer,
put himfelf in a condition of being con
quercd. His firH victories prepared him
tor defeat. He advanced till he could
not retreat and found him.elf in the miiill
of a nation of armies.
"Were it now to be propoftd to the
Auftrians and Pniffians to efeort their
i'.ito the middle of France, and t!u*re lcaw
them to make the most of such a situation,
tl; y would fee too much into the dan
gers of it to accept the olfer; and the
lame daman's would altenu them, cor.
ihey arrive there by any other means. —
Where then is the military policy of then
attempting to obtain, that whict
:hey would refufe by choice But tr
'eafon with deipots is throning realoi
iway. The belt of arguments is a vigour
■us preparation.
" Man is ever a stranger to the way
ay whfibh providence regulates the orde:
if things. The interference of Ejrcijrt
iefpots may serve to introduce into tluii
>wo eiifljved countries the principles the)
:ome to oppose. Liberty and equality
ire bl-.IS rgs too great to be the inheri
ance of France alone. It is honour tc
:ier to be the firft champion : and she may
row fay to her enemies, with a mighty
•■nice, "O! y? Auftrians 1 nd ye Prut
liana ! ye who turn your bay >nets againll
is; it is for you, it is for all Europe, il
s for all mankind, and not for France a
one, that Hie raife3 the (landard ofliber
:y and equality !"
" The public cause has hitherto fuf
rered from the contradictions contained
n the conllitution of the former conftitu
;nt aflembly. Those contradictions hive
Served to divide the opinions of individu
als at home, and to sbfeure the great prin.
riples of the revolution in other countries.
But when those contradictions shall be
removed, and the coullitution be made
conformable to the declaration of rights :
when the bagatelles of Monarch, Royalty.
Regency, and Hereditary succession, shall
be exposed, with all their absurdities, a
new ray of light will be thrown over the
world and the revolution will derive new
strength bv being univerfallv understood.
" The scene that now opens itlelf to
France, extends far beyond the boundaries
of her own dominions. Every nation is
becoming her colleague, and everv court is
becoming her enemy It is now the cause
of all nations againil the cause of all courts.
The terrors that despotism felt, clandei
tinely begot a confederation of despots :
and their attack upon France is produced
by their fean at home.
" In entering on this great scene, great
er than any nation has yet been called to
ast in, let us fay to the agitated mind,
be calm. Let us punish by inftru&ing,
rather than by revenge. Let us begin
the new <era by a greatness of friendfhip,
and hail the approach of union and fucceis.
*" Tour Fellow Citizen.
" THOMAS PAINE.
PHILADELPHIA DISPENSARY.
To the Citizens of Philadelphia.
HOWEVER necefiary and proper it
may have been in former publications o!
this kind, to enlarge on the utility of the
Dispensary, yet, being persuaded that such
recommendations are now become ufclefs,
from the general conviction of it's advan
tages, we proceed to lay before it's bene
volent supporters the ilate of the funds
and an account of the patients who have
received the benefit of their charity during
the la ft year.
Account of Receipts and Expenditures,
Received in annual contributi
ons £ 345 '3 -
L'.i contributions for l:fe 7° ° °
A ir.f cv of Mrs. Ham;an
Morris 10 ° °
Of B-ook Smith Esq. 35 00
A donation from Edwara 1 ilgh
man Esq. 3 0 0
From James RfadEfq. 2 0 0
From a Person unknown 3 '5 °
Ballance due the treasurer 28 io <)
£• 497 18 11
Expenditures.
>louse er.pences and medi
cines £-l*° 7"
"ivufe ni.t 63 15 c
Apothecary's salary ' 100 o c
Printing and Stationary 28 14 1 1
jnllance due the treasurer last
year I*s 11
£ 497 18 11
Account of Patients admitted &c. &c
The number of patients who have brer
inder the care of the Dispensary from De
:ember id 1791 to December lit 179:
s ll 'J [
Remaining under care from lad
year 35
Admitted i i 63
3f whom the number cured is 920
Dead 62
Relieved 96
Discharged disorderly jO
Removed to the hospital and"}
house of employment X 1 2
Remaining under care 78
119?
It is with fatisfaftion we find, and il
null afford peculiar pleasure to those li
?eral minds, who have been solicitous foi
he support of this institution, to temarl.
lie prcfent more favourable condition o
he funds, and tile attention toceconomy
jbferved in the management of them
jut as it is only by a constant extension o
public favour, that the Difpenl'ary can b:
Supported, we mml remind its generoui
Mtrons, that the miseries of the indigent
till call for a continuance yf their boun
y ; and that contributions are, as usual
■eceived by Mr. John Clifford, the trea'
urer, No 4.6. North Front street, at th<
Dispensary, and by all the managers.
The election for managers for the en
uung year, will be held at the Diipenfaiy
11 Chefnut street, 011 Monday the 7th dai
jf January next, between the hours o
Lhree and five, i» the afternoon. Th<
,-otes of the ladies will be received bj
jroxy.
William White,
Thomas Clifford,
Samuel Powel,
Samuel Pleafants,
Henry Hill,
Thomas Franklin,
Lawrence Seckel,
Robert Blackwell,
Henry Helmuth,
George Meade,
George Fox,
Dec. 18. 1792. James Abercrombie
French National Convention
O&ober 11.
Letter of Lieutenant General DMon, totk
Landgrave of Hejfe CaJJel.
" 1 have the honour of fending back tc
liis fcrene highness the Landgrave o
Hefle CafTel, Lieutenant Lindau. He
may judge by the declaration I have madt
to that officer, that the French nation
always great and always generous, know,
how to appreciate a noble action, and e
deems bravery even in its enemies
« I embrace this opportunity of prcfeti
ting to your serene highness some reflec
tions, which are didated by reason anc
[Total No. 123.]
humanity. Youcannot deny that a nati
on, taken collectively, has a right to give
itfelf whatever form of government it may
think proper,, and that, consequently, its
will can be opposed by that of no indivi
dual. Free and absolutely independent
forever, the French nation has. resumed its
rights, and wishes to change the form
of its government. Such, in a few words,
is the sum of whajt is palling in France.
His serene highness of HeiTe Caflel has
brought into that country a body of
troops ; as a prince he is facrificing his
fubjeds to a cause in which he has no in
terell ; and as a soldier he mult be fenli
ble of the situation in which he now is—
It is dangerous : he is surrounded ; and
I propote to him to set out to morrow in
order to return to his own country, and
to evacuate the French territories. I rtiall
procure him the means of palling in fafe
ty near the F>ench armies, which are now
in pofleflioti of several points near wlicti
he mull direst his march XJoud
This proposal is made in a candid manner
and I require a formal and explicit an
swer. The French republic can excuse
an error, but it knows how to avenge
the .ip.vafton and pillage of its territo
ries.
(Signed) "DILLON."
"P. S I fend this letter by Cobert,
my adjutant general, who will wait for
your anfv.er. I request it may be sent
soon, as I am rbady to march."
Answer of the Aid-de-Comp of the Prince
of Hijfe CaJfeL
"Sir,
" His serene highness the Landgrave
is perfe&ly sensible of the particular atten
tion you have {hewn to him by your no
ole and generous behaviour towards lieu
tenant Lindau. Hig serene highness has
:harged me to return you his sincere
thanks for this action, which does honour
o your merit and to your humanity.
' « Considering, however, the e
/ents which have taken place in
France, under a different point of view
rom that of the milled people, his serene
highness has fignified to me tliat the re
maining part of your letter is of such a
nature as to render it impofiible for him
:o return au answer, Scq.
Letter from the adminiflrators of the dijlrici
of Etain, to the duie of Brunfwici, dated
OSober I.
" Mv Lord,
" We have, made bade to obey the or
ders of your serene highness, by collec
ting from our municipalities, the 2,500
Tacks of oats, which you have required.
We have engaged the municipalities to
:aufe their quota to be conducted to
your army, and we hope you will not ex
ercise severity should it arrive late. We
iiave the honour of being, wiih the ut
x.oil refpeft. See.
" Signed by the Adminiftrstors."
Circular letter of General Dillon to the muni
cipalities of the di/lriS of Etain, OOloler 5.
" I have learnt by an intercepted letter
of the directory of the diilritl of Etain to
the duke of Brunfwick, that he ordered
you to carry to the enemy's camp, facku
if oats, and quantities of bread. I inform
you that I am encamped at Sivry with
superior forces, and that I (hall treat as
traitors to their country all villages and
municipalities who may furnifh any affis-
Lance to the enemy. You roust, on the
contrary, endeavour to fend every kind
of provisions to my camp."
l'hillippeaux. —" I move for a dccree
of peculation against the base adminiflra
tors of Etain."
Lafijuinais—"An intercepted letter,
the authenticity of which, upon that ac
count even may be doubtful, 13 not a fuf
licient gjQund for accusation. I move,
therefore, that this affair may be referred
to the committee of geuei ;1 fafety.''
Decreed.Litter from the Minijier at IVar.
" I HAVE nothing interelting to inform
you of to-day. General Kellerman, in
his dispatches of the 9th and 10th, gives me
an account of the iituation of his army.—
He adds that on the 3d, 4th, and 6th, his
advanced guard took 200 prisoners from
the enemy, among whom were feverai e
migrants, who were all exceedingly well
mounted. These captures, fays he, amuse
the soldiers much, and among the carria
ges we have taken, there is one loaded with
money. He bellows the liighelt praises or
his army, the conftaucy of which nothing
can equal.
(Signed) " LEBRUN,
" Minijier per interim."
Friday, October 12.
The president and fecretai y of the sec
tion of Marfeiiles, communicated a reso
lution of the fettion, demanding the repea
of the decree which directs elections to be
made by ballot, instead of open voce. The
resolution imported also, that if the afl'env
bly fliould not repeal the decree, the lec
tion would take such measures as in its wil
dom Ihould seem meet, obeying, provillon
ally, the decree, in the mean time.
Several members called for a decree 01
accusation agairtlt the prelident and the le
cretary.
The aflembly ordered, that they (houlc
be brought to the bar to answer for thei!
conduit.
Letter from the Commijfioutsr; of the Con
vention,Jent to the army of the Alps.
" Chamberry, Oft. 6, 1792.
" Citizens, our colleagues, the Pied
montefe, liiice our tirft dilpatches, have
made no efforts to recover from thLt flats
ofihipor into which they were thrown bj
the appearance of our troops in Savoy.—
We have received intelligence that the ar
my on the Var, under the command o]
General Anfelme, has fubjefled tht
country of Nice with the fame rapidity]
and we have learned from the courier ol
Piedmont, intercepted a few days ago, thai
aristocracy, notwithstanding the arrival oi
7000 Austrian troops, trembles even at Tu
rin. We have viiited the camp at Mont
inelian, which is under the command ol
General Rolli, and found the difpoiition ol
it excellent. Good order prevails in it;
not a (ingle citizen has made any com
plaint ; property of every kind is refpeit
ed; patriotism alone animates the brave
soldiers of liberty, and the (houts of Vim
la 7iation ! Vive la Republique t have beer
unanimous. The General presented to u;
two volunteers who have deserved well
of their country, by conducing the column:
to the bottom of the redoubts of the abys
ses of Myans, which they had gone and re
connoitered the evening before with equal
skill and intrepidity. We thought it our
duty to reward their zeal, by admitting
them to be officers at the head of the camp,
and we here consecrate their names to
public gratitude. One of them, called
Clermont, is a sergeant major in the com
pany of Avin; and the other, Ageron, is
a sergeant in that of Imbert, both belong
ing to the fifth battalion of the volunteers
of Ifere. The troops set out next morn
ing to march againlt Aiguebelle, and we
think we can assure you that the Taran
taife and la Maurienne are completely eva
cuated.
We have so much the more reason to
congratulate ourselves on the conduit ol
the French troops, as the General not ex
pecting such a feeble resistance could not
provide himfelfwith provisions, which might
have enabled him to pursue the enemy.—
Thefoldiers of liberty experienced at fir ft
some scarcity, either from the fear or dif
aifeition of the inhabitants, who, in some
cantons, even refufed to supply them with
provisions for money. They did not, how
ever, forget the cause for which they were
combating ; they patiently looked to the
wifdomofthe General for those necelfa
ries which they flood in need of, whilst the
Piedmontefe, flying like plunderers, rava
ged every thing in their way, cutting even
the vine (hoots, without any other view
than that of laying waste the country.
"We fliall without delay transmit tc
you the process-verbal of those devaluati
ons, as well as an account of the urgent
wants of those unhappy provinces, torn by
the hands of their pretended defenders.
The molt absurd tales, industriously circu
lated againlt the French republicans, had
intimidated the peaceful Savoyards ; but
if the mild behaviour of our troops has dis
sipated the clouds, it has also encouraged
the malecontents to carry on their private
intrigues. To put a flop to all falfe inli
nuations, we have thought proper to ilfue
a proclamation, in the name of the Nation
al Convention, a copy of which we now
fend you. We hope you will approve out
zeal, and support our principles.
" Our attention, as well as that of Gen.
Montefquiou, is fixed upon Geneva. You
know that without any provocation on the
part of France, 1600 Swiss have entered
that city ; that our resident has retired
from it; and that the provisions destined
for our ariny have been carried away by
the inhabitants. If that city isfree, it will
do us juflice ; if it is not free, it belongs to
the French to restore to its inhabitants the
power of thinking and of ailing.
" General Montefquiou has made pow
erful dispositions. He is at present at Car
rogue with a large body of troops, and to- ]
morrow we intend to join him.
" We learnt on our arrival at Cham
berry, that General Moirtefqujou had dif
iniiled the battalions of volunteer grena
diers who had joined his army, and that
four of the five battallions, sent to him by
the department of Gard, were on their re
turn home to their habitations. This mea
sure appeared to us diltreffing at a time
when France, surrounded by enemies, had
need of the greatest efforts from all good
citizens. As the General did not think
that he ought to comply with our repeated
solicitations, these generous defenders ot
their country were thrown into the great
ell consternation when they learnt this in
telligence. They requelt that they may
be employed at Paris, Soillons, or any o
ther place, where their zeal and their
courage may be of service to the republic.
The electoral body then aflembled, and
exprell'ed a delire that the wifii of these ci
tizen-soldiers might be complied with.—
The council-general of the department
join with the electoral body and the volun
teers, in begging that the convention will
point ou.t a poll for these four battali
ons."
Honorable mention was ordered to be
made of the zeal of these citizens, and the
committee of war was ordered to give in
a report on the bulinefs.
A letter was read from the commillion
ers of the executive power, dated Valen
ciennes, October 10. The letter ltatcd,
that the commillioners had palled a censure
on the battalions who had behaved so ill at
St. Amand, and that to prevent the bad ef
fects of flich an example, they had thought
proper to ilfue a proclamation. They :i!fo
informed the convention chat the Auftri
aus, after breaking up the liege of Lisle,
seemed to be advancing againlt Valenci
ennes by Quievrain, and that their pioneers
were already arrived in a neighbouring
village.
For the National Gazette-
A STATEMENT of the real amount re
ceived by all PUBLIC CREDITORS
at the conclusion of the war, estimating
Certificates at their then current -value,
viz. 2/6 in the pound, and the value paid
the purchajer, "January 1, 1791.
DUE to afarmer who fur- Dollars.
nilhed 96 bulTiels of w beat
or other property in pro
portion, 96
Interest to Jan. i > 179 r, 40
. . - '3 6
Received of the purchaser,
the current value 1 a
By a nett profit paid the
purchaser, 89
101
Relidue 3 5
136
Due to a col. commanding
a regiment for 5 years
full pay as per contrast, 4,500
7 years interest to Jan. 1,
179 1 J 1,890
6,390
Received of the purchaser
thecurrentvalue, 562.50
By a nett profit paid the
purchaser, 4,087.50
4,650
Residue 1,740
6,390
Due to alieut. col. 5 years
full pay, 3,600
7 years interest to Jan.
'> 1 79 1 » 1,512
5,112
Received of the purchaser
the current value 450
By a nett profit paid the
purchaser, 3,306
3,756
Residue 1,456
5,112
Due to a major 5 years full
pay, 3,000
7 years interest to Jan.
i> 179', 1,260
4,260
Received of the purchaser
the current value, 375
A nett prolitpaid the pur
chaser, 2,755
„ 3,130
Residue 1,130
4,260
Due to a captain 5 years
pay, 2,400
7 years interest to Jan.
i» 179', t,ooß
3,408
Received of the purchaser
the curreflt.value, 300
A nett profit paid the
purchaser, 2,204
2,504
Residue 904
3,408
Due to a lieut. 5 years full
P a y, 1,60 a
7 years interest, 672
2,272
Received of the purchaser
the current value, 200
By a nett profic paid the
purchaser, 1)5 6 9
1,769
Residue 512
2,272
Due to an ensign j years
pay, 1,200
7 years interelt, 504
-1,704
Received of the purchaser
the current value, ijo
A nett profit paid the
| purchaser, 1,102
1,252
Residue 452
1,704
Due to aferjeant as gratuity 120
7 years interelt, jo
170
Received of the purchaser
the current value, 15
A nett profit paid the
purchaser, 1 jo
125
Residue 45
170
Due to corporal, drum
mer, and liter, 88
Interelt to Jan. 1, 1791, .37
J25
Received of the purchaser
the current value, 1i
A nett profit paid the
purchaser, 73
83
Residue 42
12J
Due to a private 1 year's
gratuity, 80
7 years mterelV, 30
110
Received of the purchaser
the current value, 10
A nett profit, 72
82
Residue 28
110
When the promise of half pay to the late
army, from a variety of circuimtances, sva»
commuted—n appeared from an aggre
gate calculation, that tlie auny had ful
lered, 011 tlieir monthly wages, a diminu
tion ot 66 1-3 per cent lor lix years 011
their ltate and continental payments ; this
was relinqunlied on a prefuiaption of its
being their proportion with ether public
creditors. Admitting the iiaif pay agree
ably to the resolution of Congrels of the
22d ol March, 1753, viz— * And whereas
Congrels are delirous as well of gratifying
the reasonable expectations ot' the officers
ol the a my, as 01 removing all objections
which may exilt 111 any part of the United
States to the principle of half-pay eltab
lillinient, for which tlie faith of the United
States has been pledged—perluaded that
those objections can only arise from the
nature ot the compensation, not from any
indifpolition to coinpenfate tliofe whose
fervlees, facrifices, and fufferings have so
Jull a title to the approbation and rewaro
<>t their country : Therefore, relolved,
that luch officers as are now in service, and
i!;all continue to the end of the war, lhall
be entitled to recover the amount of five
years lull pay, in money or lecurities on
interelt at 6 per cent per annum, as Con
grels lhall think moll convenient, instead of
halt-pay proinifed for life by the resolution
of October 21, 1780.' The officers u idl
ing for tranquility, received the commuta
tion in lieu of half pay, and the lion-com
millioned officers and privates received one
year's lull pay as a gratuity in final fettlc
ments that was anticipated to relieve the
necellities that naturally would followlrom
their impaired habits and constitutions.—
But Congress and the several states in all
their public and private tranfaftions, elti
mated those ceruficates at 2/6 in the pound,
whereby the reasonable expectations of
their officers and soldiers were difappointcd.
Therefore to resume the half pay, would
be oidy the firft contract, and to give cre
dit to th'evalue of the commutation, agree
able to the funding fylteui, would place
the public debt in the fame situation as if
the intermediate transactions had not ta
ken place.
Nodoubtit was the intent ofCongrefs
then to do juitice—for on a motion of Mr.
Hamilton, seconded by Mr. Wiljoti, the
2d of May, 1783—" Resolved, that Con
gress confidently rely for an immediate and
efficacious attention to the present requisi
tion upon the difpolition ot their conttitu
euts, not only to do juitice to those brave
men who have fuffered and facrificed so
much in the cause of their country, and
whose diltrefles muff be extreme ihould
they be sent from the field without the
payment of a part of their well earned
dues—but also to enable Congress to main
tain that faith and reputation of the Uni
ted States, both which are ferioully con
cealed in relieving the necellities of a me
ritorious army, and fulfilling the public
llipuiation."
In consequence of the foregoing resolu
tions, Mr. Morris illiied his bills at fix
months credit, in June, July, and August,
to the amount of four months pay : these
bills were discounted by H L
and others sent to camp for the purpose,
at 30 per cent, below par; and also re
ceived for merchandize at the moderate
profit of 200 per cent, on the Iterling cost ;
this, however, was a seasonable relief, the
army having been so long accustomed to
running in debt for clothes, and other con
tingencies, and felling the ltate payments
at 300 per cent, discount. However, I
only beg leave to recite a paragraph in his
Excellency General Wafiiing ton's letter
to the President of Congress, dated ls Te\v
burg, March 18, 1783.
" And here I humbly conceive it is alto
gether unnecefi'ary (while I am pleading
the cause of an army which have done and
fullered more than any other army ever
did in defence of the rights and liberties of
human nature) to expatiate en their
claims to the most ample compensation for
their meritorious services, because they
are known to the world, and because tho'
the topics are inexhaustible, enough has
been said on the fubjeft."
A CONTINENTAL SOLDIER.
I Dec. 31, 1792.
For the National Gazette.
ALL efforts towards monarchy and
aristocracy being rendered abortive by va
rious circumstances, we now find the for
mer advocates of titular diftinftions de
claring that they only heretofore recom
mended such tilings inject, and never once
entertained a [erious thought that distinc
tions of this kind could be countenanced
by any conftit'Jtion in the United St3tes
while the people remain what they are.
II is aKb denied by th ejecret advocates for
American monarchy, •' that any king
makingparty exifls of the United States."
I ins is probably true : the current of
popular opinion is become so strong againtt
every idea, intimation, and attempt of that
nature, that the advocates and planners of
!ljch schemes no longer dare venture
b. oad with their proportions for giving the
government a twist towards royalty, the
eager though somewhat concealed object
of a well known faction for at least four
years by-past, it not from the very hour of
the conclusion of the war. They now lie
\n petto, have ha v ied in their horns, and
are completely astounded at the ungra
cious profpeft before them ; and are even
ailuming a tone ol language directly op
polite to what they formerly held they
may therefore be conlidered as extin£t,
and their venom almost asharmlefs as that
ot the old tories of 1776.
Materials are now colle£Kng, and there
will, at a day not very far diltant, be pub
lillied, a curious hiltory of the efforts that
were made three or four years ago to in
troduce Titles and Hereditary Orders into
the United States. It was presumed that
the popular entlnifiafm, roused as it was
on a certain memorable occasion, would
unfufpe&edly establish the much wifh'd for
powers and dignities, civil and ecc!e!:alti
cal—At this period mitres and maces were
firft imported ; and laughable, indeed, it
is to recollea when the births of the -well
born were regularly published in a certain
gazette (the editor of which, it is said, had
the promise ol being made Equerry cf the
Ilablei, in cafe the titular system had suc
ceeded) and the people in a fair way of
being taught to look up to the offspring of
their public servants as to a set of superior
beings, young matters and miftrelfes, to
whom thev were hereafter to pay court,
cap-ill-hand, and bow the knee of servile
obeisance,
Alcho' tile good sense of the people soon
saw thro',and despised those stupid attempts
at aping the nonsense and villainy of Eu
ropean courts, yet the wiley abettors of
those tinsel dignities and diftinftions were
not ealily dilcouraged. No endeavor has
been omitted, ever lilice the period above
mentioned, to poison and infatuate the
minds of the people and to prejudice thein
against that honest simplicity in the ad
ministration oi government, which ought
ever to predominate in an American re
public. The scene of affairs, however, in
France, has operated as a perpetual dif
courageraent to such high-minded innova
tors among!! us ; and the total downfall
of royalty and nobility in that country (as
has been expressed on another occalion)
will, like an early froft, utterly blast and
annihilate the germ of this poisonous weed
in America.
It is curious to observe, how the ideas
of your American monarchy-mongers have
flowed altogether in corrupted European
channels. Forinftance—ln order to fix a
precedent, "forhim that isto come after,"
the birth-day of a popular or meritorious
character cannot pals without his being
pestered with long fplny-foot odes on that
occalion. Intense is offered that is dis
dained to be fnuffed—and which yet is of
fered, and even attempted to be puffed up
thenoftrils, infpiteof the mod marked con
tempt. To prevent expreflions of disgust
in future, poet-laureats are now talked of
for this purpose, who, as being supposed
men of ability, would be able to cook up
the incense in such a manner as to make
it at least tolerable to the olfa&ory nerves.
But who ever heard of a poet-laureat in a
plain, frugal republic ?—lt is an office al
together monarchical, and when eltablifh
ed, ought (if right took place) to be re
jected with the other paraphernalia, trap
pings, and tinsel ;->f exploded royalty. If,
however, it fliould be thought neceflary,
in future, to continue regularly in this
country, the praflice of birth-day-ode
making, a proper chara"er ought in due
time to be pitched on for the purpose
That lie fliould be a sycophant and a toad
eater. and wholly devoted to men in of
fice, would be the firft great requisite. In
other refpeits, he fhcv.ld be or.e who hasturned off an epic poc .i or two, and who,
if required, en write as mmy as the re
nowned Blackra ire without fainting—and
such, to our honor be it (aid, we can find
in abundance by turning our views a little
eafiward. If ;is happens to have a good
deal of the courtier in his composition, lb
much the better, for however the mere
poet in any country may have rsafou to
reflect upon the world for not having
searched out or properly rewarded poeti
cal merit, there is no doubt but the court
fycophant, un:la.iy government, will al
ways find himfelf amply rewarded for the
servile adulation he pays to men of weal*
minds and ambitious expe£iations.
Dec. 31.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Thursday, Dec. 37.
The petition of James Morrifon, &c. for
renewal of a loft certificate, was referred
to the committee already appointed for si
milar purpof.s.
The bill providing for allowance of in
terest, for indemnifying Udney Hay and
others, was read a second time, and refer
red to a committee of the whole House to
morrow.
, On motion of Mr. Giles, it was refolv
sd, That the President of the United
, States be fequeited to cauftr the House ta
be furnilhed with a particular account ol
tfle several funis borrowed under his au
thority by the United States—the terms on
which each loan has been obtained—the ap
plications, to which any of the monies
have been made, agreeable to appropria
tions, and the balances, if any, which re
main unipplied. In this Statement, it is
requested, that it may be fpecified, at what
times interred commenced on the fevera!
sums obtained, and at what times it was
ftopt, by the several payments made. This
resolution was agreed to.
A petition was read fro.n thp colleitor
of Newport diltrict, R.I. praying an aug
mentation of filary—Referred to the Se
cretary of theTreafury.
A motion for taking up the bill, provid
ing for repaying the lo in made from the U.
S. Bank, was made and legatived.—A post
ponement beug tho\ignt necetTary, for ad
ditional information.
Mr. White, from the committee to whom
had been re-Committed the bill providing
for trade and intercourse with the Indians,
reported an amendatory bill—which was
twice read, and then committed to a com
mittee of the whole for'immediate discus
sion. Several amendments were made and
reported ; which were in part agreed to.
The further consideration of the amend
ments was deferred till to-morrow.
Report was made by Mr Moore, that
the committee had waited on the Prefideni
of the United States, requelti:ig his ap
probation to the ait for regiltering and re
cording of (hips or veflels.
The House then, i:i committee of the
whole, proceeded to conlider the bill foi
ascertaining the fees demandable on admi
ralty proceedings in the di(tri£t courts oi
the United States, and for the better re
gulation of seamen in the merchants' ser
vice.—Several amendments were made
reported, and laid on the table.
Tke doors were then (hut, on a confi
dential communication from the war
office.
Fiiiday, Dec. 38.
A petitiou of Amala and Elnathan Kcyes
was read, praying renewal of a loft certi
ficate—Referred to a committee hereto
fore appointed on that bulinefs.
A memorial was read from the officers
and soldiers of tlie late Ne ti- Hampfiiire
line, praying compensation fo£. the depre
ciation on their certificates for military ser
vices during the war—Also, a petition of
Patrick Sullivan, a sergeant in the late ar
my. praying compensation for services, &c.
— Also. a petition of James 'uggan, a Ca
nadian, in behalf of the widow and chil
dren of Col. Dug ;:in, deceas'd, late of
that province, praying compensation for
lofles fultained in consequence of attach
ment to the American cause—Laid on the
table.
The House then proceeded to consider
the amendments reported yesterday by the
committee of the whole House to the bill
for ascertaining the fees demandable on ad
miralty procesdings, in the diftrift courts
of the United States ; and to amend the
a£t for the regulation of seamen in the
merchants' service—These amendments
were agreed to ; and others proposed,
fame of which were agreed to, and others
rejected.—The bill was then ordered to be
engrolfed for a third reading on Monday
next.
Mr. Steele renewed his motion, made
some days since, to the following pur
pore,—viz.—That a committee be ap
pointed to bring in a bill to re
duce the military establishment of the
United States to a certain number of re
giments, &c,—After a lengthy debate on
this refohition, and the propriety of adopt
ing it—the motion was carried for a refer
ence to a committee of the whole House
on Wednelclay next. The Houfethen ad
journed to meet on Monday next.
PHILADELPHIA.
January 2.
Several persons having requeued the fa
vor of M. Blanchard to accompany him in
his aerial flight on Wednesday next, the
9th instant—That gentleman has publicly
informed them that it is ont of his power
to gratify their willies, having brought
with him from Europe only 4200 weight
of vitriolic acid, the quantity neceflary to
effect his own afceniion, once. The addi
tional quantity necetfary to carry up a com
panion 111 this aerial journey could not be
had in this city ; and if it could, would
cofi: atlealt 100 guineas, an expence which,
in Europe, has always been defrayed by
tile perion accompanying.
The Halifax (North-Carolina) Journal
of December 10, has the following para
graph. " The ele£tors proceeded this day
(Decemoer 5) £0 the choice of a President
and Vice-President—the utrnoft unanimi
ty prevailed with refpeft to the Prelident,
sis the man who unites the wilhes and'con
tidence of the people of America : Mi
Adams and Governor Clinton were the on
ly persons named as the candidates for the
oilier appointment—the prejudice which
had prevailed againfl Mr. Adams, as the
caufc of some ridiculous rtrugglea of the
Senate for titles and diftinctio.i—his con
duit on the representation bill—and the
danger of permitting any nun to prelide
too long over the dark councils of the A
merican Senate, who seem < .termined,
that their conduit Ihall never meet the
light, or the eyes of the people, formed
llroag undivided objections a- fc
& the vote fell unanimoully • .. Clinton.''
We hear that a number of blue ribbo'n
are preparing to decorate ceivain gentle
men for their maiterly conduct in tiie fe
deral legiflaLare—A republican f'peech,
made by a gentleman from North-Caro
lina, which had for its object the relief of
the people by a reduction of the enormous
expencesof our military eltablilhmeut, has
been accounted (oh itrange to tell in the
seventeenth year of American independ
ence !) the most extraordinary thing ima
ginable, and so terrific, that it was hoped
such a Monfier would never again make
his appearance within the walls of Con
gress. The faithful fervavts of admini-
Itration ought certainly not to pal's unre
warded, for from the declared spirit of this
phalanx, we have every reason to believe
that no exertion ihall be wanting 011 their
part to meliorate the citizens of the United
States to the true christian meeknefi oi
pajfive obedience and non-re!iftance.
[Ge/i. Adv.]
We hear from Georgia, that there have
been several murders committed 011 the
frontiers of that llate by the Indians.—Ele
ven white people are certainly known to
have been killed, supposed to be by the
Cherokees.—Some apprehensions are still
entertained of a war with the Indians, in
that quarter breaking out.
A number of French republicans, afiem
bled 011 the 28th inttant in this city, to fix
on a proper mode of celebrating the happy
fuccels of their fellow patriots in France,
unanimously agreed, iullead of a feltival,
fireworks or illuminations, to open a sub
scription for the relief of the diftrelfed of
that nation here, or of any other, f'nould
the funds of the fubfeription be equal to
this double object. The fubfeription to
continue open in order to afford those whe
could not be prefeut at this firft meeting
an opportunity for the exercise of Their
patriotic benevolence. At this meeting it
was alio agreed to form a society under
the name of Societe FraticaiJ'e del amis de
Vegalite.
We hear from Boston, that the ship
Montgomery, from London, put into that
port in a leaky condition,and with the loss
of the greater part of her marts.
The names of the Wabafli Indians, late
ly arrived in this city, on a visit to the l're
fident of the United States, are as follow :
Great Joseph— aptift du Qiion, and his
squaw Alanonfoqua—Thomas—Nancope
ta, or Red Trowfers—Swecana, or Three
Legs—Gomoo—A soldier and his squaw
Wapetfonequa —Le Petit Cafto, or Lit
tle Beaver—Wapeteia, or Little A—e
—Wifkeohn, or Painted face—Waw
wecefeto, or Circle—Le Petit Beaflie, or
Little Elk—Hawpautapeaugh, or Riling
Man—Quoquouquerfeaa, or the Chafer—
Menecoueyou, or Aquiline Nofe—Mone
katau, a squaw, unmarried—with 3 inter
preters.
On the 29th of October, the western
parts of the Island of Cuba experienced a
severe hurricane. Ten or twelve vefl'els
were driven to sea from the Havanna ; and
in that city 520 houses were totally de
stroyed.
Authentic advices are come to hand, that
the evacuation of Verdun was to take
place on the 14th of October. The ac
counts o the railing the (lege of Lisle are
confirmed. Before the besiegers abandon
ed their designs on that place, they loft at
least four thousand men from the fire of
the besieged, and three hundred horses
were left dead on the field.
London newfpap'-rs, received by the Pa
tuxeuc Planter, further advise—That at
Bucharest, in Wallachia, the plague still
continued, and carried ofFBo persons every
<hy—The number of inhabitants there
amount to 4o,oco—'That M. Defchorches
the J-'rench Relidcnt at Warsaw, had re
ceived notice from the Counter-Federa
tion, that he would no longer be admitted
in bis diplomatic Capacity—That M. Nec-
was dire£ting, at Vienna, the councils
of Austria against the French, whom he
oii.e so tamely flattered—Thatthe munici
pality of Chamberry, the capitalof Savoy,
had come to a refoiution, that the current
monies of France fhallhave the fame value
::nd denomination as they bear in the
French republic—to approximate, howe
ver, this value to that of the Savoyard mo
nies, the French crown and three livres is
to pais in commerce for one hundred and
twenty sous of Savoy, and the Savoyard
crown for one hundred and twenty-four
sous, or seven livres four sous, French—
that with refpeft to the Frcnch sflignats,
the magrftrates of Chamberry had deter
mined nothing, although they were of opi
nion that they ought to have a currency in
Savoy, where they should be regarded as
fuMlantial and efficacious as gold andfilver
coins—that general Montefquiou had giv
en orders to the French army to obey the
above regulations—that M. Bnrgoing, the
French ambafl'ador at the court of Spain,
fated to tiie national convention, that he
>vai well aware that some intrigues were
arrying on there, but hed;(f.-;ot think a
udden rupture could take place, between
:hat country and France—that at present
ipain could bring into the field only tweil
.y-three or twenty-four thousand men,
.vho were to be stationed on the frontiers,
•;k1 probably might, in cafe of any misfor
:'n ie to France attempt an invasion—That
is crown, sceptre, andgreat seal of France,
lad been broken and carried to the mint-
That Colonel Oswald, of Philadelphia, had
>een appointed Etat-Major in the French
>rmv — I'hat Baron Noicken, the Swedilh
imbailador at the court of Great-Britain,
lad been very fnddenly called from that
ourc, without any reason having been af
igned for so doing—That though some da
n.i ;e had been done by wet weather to the
oinin England, nevertheless the crops
iv>ere very large, and great quantities
lcufed.
On Thursday afternoon arrived here the
hip Experiment from Dunkirk, which
>ort file left the 2 7th of October, at which
ime the republic of France was entirely
.lear of the Prullian and Austrian forces.
The French armies had penetrated a confi
brable distance into he territories of Iheir
enemies, and it was fuppolcd would not find
nuch difficulty in reaching Brnffels. The
ibove veilel brings Paris accounts to the
24th of October, ltating among other ani
ses of interesting intelligence, that the
/an-guard of Gen. Dumonrier's army was
:xpected to have arr ved at Valenciennes
:>n the 1 jth of October. The most rapid
enfation of fear had seized all the princes
>n the banks of the Rhine. The princely
loule of Baden had taken flight. The
jrince ofLinauge had arrived at Manheim
.vith all his baggage. The bifliop ofSpires
lad retired to Odenwald, and. his fears in
dealing, from thence to Newftadt. The
:ommilfary of provilionsat Heidelberghad
:;aftily emptied their magazine on the news
[»f the approach of the forces of liberty,
pn the 20th of October, the following letter
From the commiflioners to the central ar
my, dated, Camp of Vaudoncourt, Odt. 18,
|nd iigned by the commiflioners of the Na
tional Convention, was read to that body :
" Thedivifion of the army commanded
by-General Keilerman, arrived yeiterday,
at the Camp of Vaudoncourt : General
Valence, who commands the other divi
lion, advanced through the sorest of Man
gienne, and pulhed his van-guard as far
as Pillon, which he found occupied by the
enemy. He was obliged to bring up his
cannon against this post, and then he soon
jot mailer of it.
The Duke of Brunfwick and General
Kalkreuth sent in that day a trumpeter
with an aijl-de-camp, to demand a perfon
il conference with General Keilerman ;
they teftifiqd a desire to accommodate
matters, but General Keilerman adhering
(trittly to the intentions of the national
convention, answered that he could en
ter into no conference whatever, as long
as the Pruflian army should be on the ter
ritory of the French republic; that the
re-surrender of Longvvy was a prelimina
ry without which he could enter into no
engagements. The Duke of Brunfwick
offered to evacuate Longwy and to give
the place up on the twenty-sixth. Keller
man judgiug that'he wanted four daysmore
to arrive with his army before that place
on account of the roads being broke so
much,infifted on having the place evacuat
ed the twenty-second of this month.
After this conference, General Valence
was charged with the regulation of the
articles of capitulation. V.'e fend in
closed an authenticated copy thereof, and
you will judge yourfelf of the advanta
ges of this event. On the 22tl at ten o'-
clock in the morning the enemy will
have quitted the territory of the repub
lic. General Keilerman will march up
!t is whole army in battle array, and our
commissioners will thank them for their
courage and perfeverence. We beg our
fellow citizens to partake of the joy which
fuel] an event has caused 115.
See here then this contest of despotism
against liberty soon determined ; and hap
py are we to have been the witnefl'es there
of, and to be charged to give you these in
teresting details."
[From Bojlon, December 20.]
As there is some appearance of a peace
with the Indians, it is hoped that Congress
will totally annihilate the office of a SE
CRETARY AT WAR. For thegreateft
security for a lasting peace is, that no fucli
appointment be made.
The probability of a peace \\ 3th the In
dians, ihews evidently that it is in the
power of a few individuals to make war
or peace in that quarter, as may suit their
convenience and inureft. The investiga
tion of the late failure, it is probable, Has
led thefeJetters on to think more ferioul! y
011 this bulinefs, knowing that when the
people are awake .they will never fuffer
millions of dollars to be expended for the
emoluments of any individuals, however
dignified in office or pompous in deport
ment.
The rejection of a late bill "in toto,*'
for further compensation, evinces that a
majority of Congress begin to be atten
tive to the observations in the public pa
pers, and are not for lavishing roo large a
proportion of the public funds on favor
ites. It is expected that the reje£tion of
this bill will originate a motion for redu
cing the J'alaries of public ofii ters.
LONDON, o£t. 12.
The Duke of Biunfwick has obviously
no other design than to repafs the M'eufe
by the way of Grand Pre, and quit the
French frontiers. In his impatience to
make good his retreat, he fuffers excessive
ly from the army under Bournonville—
Scarcely an hour passes that this general
does not make some attack, and bring off
a part of their cavalry or their ft ores. De
serters are continually arriving within the
French lines, and that they inform them
that the fe.ilon for the invaders, is from 5
o'clock in the morning till noon. The
road they march along is found strewed
with poor dying wretches who have fallen
victims to the ravages of disease and fa
mine.
It is at Grand Pre, that the three combi
ned bodies of troops under Dur. ouricr,
Bournonville, and Duval, mean to bid them
farewell. The difpol-.tions taken by the
former are kept profoundly secret : but
he speaks with confidence of cutting off
the army of Brunfwick,and his troops have
received the orders to march with all the
alacrity of men confident of terminating
the war in one deciiive action. On the 3d
instant, to the number of 120,00 c, they
marched from St. Menehould for this pur
pose. The Avant guard had advan
cing under Bournonville, frompoft to poll:,
as the combined armies retreated, front
the 30th of September.
While these great events are pafling, the
troops who were at H iffenibourg, largely
reinforced, are ordered into the Biifgavv.
They will pass the Rhine with a numerous
artillery, between lort Lou s and Stras
bourg, and immediately .attack the emi
grants and other enemies on the right of
that river.
The circles of the empire, by their last
decisions, have resolved to keep their troops
in garrison, while Prussia and Austria pass
their winter with tranquility in Metz, Thi
onville, and Rheims. They h av e no fort
of presentiment of what has happened, to
render that at least doubtful.
Before the disastrous entry of the allied
armies into Champagne, the French were
taught to dread the immense and believed
invinciblc cavalry of Pruiiia.—What is be
come of it? Thehorfe is the tendereft of
all animals; the inclemency of a marftiy
foil and incessant rains, have killed them by
hundreds. Cuftine has burnt the forage
necessary for their support, and the French
Huflars bring away numbers of them daily.
Vitry is the market for their sale : and
there the peasants come to buy—and be
speak the preference of such as the light
troops may acquire in their excursions.
Tiius, what with the negleff of fuccosirs,
imprudence in their feeding, the determi
ned enterprize of the enemy, and yet more
than all these, of the inclemency of the
season ; this perhaps unequalled assem
blage of the fineft troops in Europe, is for
ced into the disgrace of a retreat, before
armies they have too lightly derided, and
leaders they seem injudiciously to have de
spised.
* # * Several favors from correspondents,
are unavoidably deferred till Saturday"*!
paper.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
National Bank Stock 42
N. American 35
Six per cents. 20/2
Deferred, 12/S
Three per cents. 11/ioON BALLOONS.
A HE earth on its furl'acc 11-15 all been furveyYi,
The fcahas been travel d—and, in the {hack,
The kingdom of Pluto has heard us at work
When we dig for his metals—wherevcrthey lurk :
But who would have thought that invention could
To contrive a machine tliat wcuid soar to the (k.ies
And pierce the bright regions, which ;Vges'"aflignM
To spirits unbodied, and flights of the mind.—
Let the godsfof Olympus their revels. prepare,
By the help of a breeze o inflammable air
We'll visit them foon,and furfake this dull ball
With a streamer difplay'd—and no fear of a fall-
How France * isdiftinguifii'din lis ekty sreign !
What canricf her genius and courage attain ?
Throughout the wkie world have her aims found
the way,
And art to the liars is extending her fwav.
At sea, let the Britilh their neighbors defy -»
The French (hall have frigates to traverse the Iky,
In this navigation invincible prove,
And cudgfci your Frcdirics and a
bove.
If the Englifli (hould vehture to Tea with their
fleet,
A host of balloons, in a trice fhey shaH meet —
The French from the zenith their wings (half d'f
play,
And souse on tbefe sea-dogs, and beartbrm away,
Ye fagc*, who travel on mighty dtfigns
To m furs equators and tropical lines—
Inflcad of a vcfTel, to traverse t}ie fcas
Engage a balloon and you 11 do it with cafe.
And ye, who the heavens' broad concave survey,
Arid, aided by glasses, its fetretp betray ;
Who gale, the night through, at the wondcrfu!
fcenc,
Yet dill are complaining of vapors between :
Ah, feiac the conveyance, and fcarlet'sly rile
To peep at the lanthorns that Tight tip the Ikies,
And floating above on our ocean of air
Inform us by letter, what people are there.
* Ba loovt are wholly cf French ir.vrrairr.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
Letter from General Dumourier to tie Mi
nijier of IVar—Read in the National
Contention, Osbber 4.1b.
" Vienne a fille, Qfl. 2.
" The head-quai ters-general of the ene
my is ftiil at Amry for this night, as ts
fiippofed : My ports are very near them,
and will to-morrow harrafs or purftie them.
I have followed them myfclf in person as
you fee. General Valence is on my left,
and will hem in the riL,ht of the enemy
with prudence and courage : We are go
ingto do the fame in our quarter. Th e
morning ten battalions arrived at Cler
mont,and 1500 men at Vaiennes. Gene
ral Dillon, whom I sent with two or three
thousand men to harrafs the Hessians, by
advancing to Baffcourby Pahvant has had
a success againll them, which every where
proves a weakness on their part. Marfhali
Nuilly, who charged the Hessian cavalry
at the head of his dragoons, killed with his
own hands the firil Hessian, and saved the
life of a li' utenant, named Lindau, whore
lie took prisoner.
" I fend you a copy cf a piece which is
infinitely curious—l hope soon to dis
charge this receipt for 117 (heep to the
king ofPruflia, in his states of Cleves anc
Guelderland, if his pride prevents him from
making a separate peace. I have tran f
mitted to the commiffioncrs to be laid re
fore the convention, another very curious
piece—the orderly book of the armed
emigrants, in which may be found th<
names of those Chevaliers, as much despis
ed in the Prussian army, as they are in that
of the French."
Copy of an order of tht King of Pri/Jpa.
'• The village of Hons, in Champagne
lias delivered for the Prussian army, lip
sheep, the value of which his inajelty the
kiug of France engages to pay, when hi?
sacred person (hall be at liberty, and ordei
re-eftabli(hcd in his states. In faith ol
which I give under the special guarantee
of his majesty the king of Prufiia, which
may be exchanged for the value of the
said provisions, in a proper time and place.
(Signed)
" The Duhe of Brunfwich Lunenlurgh.
" September 29."
Thursday, October it.
M. Treillard called the attention of the
Aflembly to the two battalions of Federates
of Paris, who in the mod barbarous man
ner had tarnilhed the honor of the French
nation, by maflacring, without mercy, and
in defiance of all law, theunfortunate Prus
sians, who had abandoned the stand
ards of despotism to serve under those
of liberty. He requested, that the vil
lains, who had been guilty of this atrocity,
(hould be given up to all the severity ol
the law. " The law," said he, "on this
fubjeft is explicit: Against such the penal
code pronounces the featence of death. I
I move, therefore, that the criminals shall
be conduced to some town which you may
point out ; that a court-martial ill all im
mediately be formed to try them ; and
that no application (hall be admitted to the
tribunal of appeal."
This proposal met with no opposition,
but the committee of war was charged to
give in their ideas on this fubjedl during
the fitting.
One of the Secretaries proclaimed the
names of the members who are to compose
the committee of conditution. These
were Seyes, Thomas Paine, Petion, Brif
fot, Veignini!:!, Grnfonne, Barrere, Dan
to», Condorcet. The deputies were Bar
barous, Herault, Lauthenas, Jean Debry,
Fauchet, Lavcoomtrie.
Letter f-sm the Commijjisners/ent to the
united armies.
Camp, at D:mballe, Oil. to, t792.
" Citizen^—we yesterday paid a visit to
the camp of Sivry, occupied by General
Dillon, snd \Ve afterwards accompanied
General Kcllerman, who went to recon
noitre at a very small diilance, the camp of
the enemy at Regnet and Saint Glorietix.
Belides this camp, the enemy ft ill occupy
Mount Ssii t Michael, which absolutely
or. mauds Verdnn. We arc informed by
spies, that the enemy have a great num
ber of sick in that town ; but we
are afTured at the fame time that
ihey have not lrfs than 30,000 men en
camp c d without it, which will oblige
General Keller matt to purfuc meafurt:
lucefl'.iry to attack them with advantage.
Some papers which we have ttanfmitted
to you will prove, however, that they haci
in intention of retiring through Etain.
You will receive further information 01
this from the (hameful letters of the ad
rr.inilfrators of El;: n. We have sent yoi
also the copy of a letter written by Gen
Dillon, to the Landgiave of HefTc-CaHel
when he sent back to him lieutenant Lin
dati, who alone remained of his detach
ment confiding of 30 men ; rogethci
with the answer of the Landgrave; aric
the process-verbal of the examination o!
two young men, arretted at Vouzieres :
The alfe nbly will there find some inter
tiling details.
" General Valence jomed Kellerman'i
army yesterday. He had followed the ene
my as far as Buzancy, which he took pof
session of by force. In the course of hi:
march he has taken a number of prisoners :
Auftrians, Prussians, and Emigrants, to
gether with money, and several carr:ages
He took likewise a llandard from the Emi
grants, which he sent to General Dumou
rier, to be presented to the National Con
vention. At the head quarters of Gene
ral Dil'on we found four HuiTais o
the regiment of Elben, who deserted witl
their arms and horses. They told us, thai
the decree pasTed in favor of defertcrs wa:
beginning to be known in the Prussian ar
my ; but that the officers, to prevent the
effect which it might have, assured, them,
that this decree was only a deception, ant]
that we hung all these who came to out
camp. (Signed)
" Carra.
" PriEur.
" SILLERY."
STRASBURG, (a large French city in tin
circle of the Upper Rhine) 03. 4. —The
three hundred prisoners taken in the Pa
latinate arrived here this day—The Ge
nerals advance guards, and regimental
bands of music, accompanied by an im
mense mob, preceded them. The Jacob
ins received them as brothers, making the
air resound with the tune of ca ira per
formed on the various instruments. The
decree refpe&ing deserters, and other
papers tending to seduce the enemy's ar
mies, were diilributed to them in the
French and German languages. It is re
ported that the inhabitants of Spire and
Mayence exclaimed, with a perfect good
will, vive la nation.
Vienna, Sept. 29. The Spanish am
bassador at this court made an official
communication on last Saturday, of his
Catholic majesty's disposition to co-ope
rate with Austria and Prussia in their en
deavours to re-eflablifh good order and
tranquility in France, by making a pow
erful diversion on his fide ; for which pur
pose he had ordered a body of troops to
march towards the Pyrenees, to be in rea
diness to ast when it should be necefTary.
We are informed, by our letters from
Constantinople, by the way cf Venice,
that the charge des affaires of the court of
Petersburg had communicated to the Re re j
Effendi, a note demanding permission for
eight Hiips of the line, and the fame num
b r of frigates to p?.f3 the Dardanelles, in
order to ast again ft the French. The
Reis Effendi teflified hij fiirprife at a re
quisition of this nature, and flatly refufjd
it, alledging the lad treaty of peace by
which that of Karnardge was confirmed.
Paris, Oft. 11. A grand civic feftival,
on account of the success of the French
armies is to be celebrated in this capital
on Sunday next.
The Convention has voted twenty
millions of livres, forcloathing and equip
ping the troops.
German account of the taking of Spires.
Official accounts ptylijlted'. by order of the
Klefioral Court of Aleut z.
" Colonel de Winkelman towards cvan
ng of the 29th September, receivod ad
vice of the approach of the enemy to the
lumber of 30,000. The Austrian troops
md those nf M<?ntz marched out from the
:ity at eight o'clock at night to defend the
7 our gates, and remained under arms till
half pad seven the next morning. Hear
ng then no account ofthe enemy, the gar
ifon returned to the town, but scarcely
had they retired, when the commandant o(
.lie patrole of 'norse, who having been out
■econnoitring, had loft three of his men.
ode up, on a full gallop, with intelli
gence that the enemy weie not far diftunt.
Our troops relinking then their former po
rtion without the wallc, received about
noon the French army, whom they found
:o amount to about 17,000 men, by a dif
:harge of tVir cannon. The cannonade
ivas kept up with great spirit on both fjder,.
The enemies artillery was much more nil
merous ; but as our troops were drawn up
only two men deep, while the French ad
vanced in columns, their lof3 mult have
been conliderable. At three o'clock the
garrifbit retired to the town through the
different gates, and the firing was continu
ed in the flreets with so much vivacity
that the infantry of Maymce eight times
repulsed the French cavalry. Notwith
ftandingthis brave refiflance, our troop:
were obliged to give way before the enemy,
who were much superior in number, and to
retire through the gate called Wiefethor.
towards the ford of Rheinhoufe, at about
the diflance of a league from Spires- The
French pursued them thither with theii
whole forces, and they wore then reduced
to the necessity of asking leave to capitu
late.
After a delay of 40 minutes, Lieut. Co
lonels Dietereich and Fachenbach, th<
former in the service of Austria, anil tin
latter in that of the Elector of Mentz, a
greed with M. Cuftine, the French general
that the garrison should remain prfonen
of war, that the artillery, arms, horses, ant
baggage,fhould be given up to the enemy
that the officers should be fuffered to re
tain their arms, horses and effects ; aiu
that the soldiers should not be stripped.—
After these ftipulationswere agreed to, tin
garrison was brought back to the town
where ihe soldiers laid down theii
arms close to ;he grand guard, and weri
afterwards lodged in the cathedral, but th<
officers had pcrmiffion to walk about.
•' Next morning, Oft. ift, all the pri
vates, reckoning from the {lift ftjijeant ol
each company, were conveyed to Lau
dau, and a declaration was made to the
officers affcmbled at the Hotel de-Ville,
that they would be fat at liberty aftei
they had taken an oath not to serve in the
war agaiuft the French till an exchange o:
prisoners should take place—Having ac
quiesced in this proposal, and fold theii
horses for ready money to the French, the
commandant of Landau condtifted them
without any guard to the ford of Rhien
houfe, and permitted them to retire where
ever they might think proper.
Bank of the United States.
Philadelphia, Notf. 20th, 1792.
THE ftockhoiderfj of the bank of the
United States are hereby informed
that according to the statute of incorpora
tion, a general ele£tion for twenty-five Di
rectors will be held at the bank of th«
United States, in the city of Philadelphia
on Monday the seventh day of January
next, at ten o'clock in the forenoon.
And pursuant to the eleventh lection o:
the bye-laws the stockholders of the faic
bank are hereby notified to alfemble in ge
neral meeting, at the fame place, 01
Thursday the eighth day of January next
at five o" clock 111 the evening.
By order of the Prefidentand Directors.
JOHN KEAN, Caftiier.
t- J- 5•
Terres a Vendre
Dani un pais lien peuple,-—
S AVOIR, foixante cinq mille, trois cens, toix
ante ct quatorze Acta, en une feble pi6ce,
dans le canton le mieux pcuple de la Caroline Me
ridionale, Je Difti i& de Ninety-Six* Ces terres
font fituees dans une contrce agrcable, et falubre,
ou les fievres font inconnuesj a environ vingt licues
de Colombie, la Capitale, et contigues ala ville
de Cambridge, eu il y a College, et Gour fuperi
eure. A environ douz-e lieucs, i 1 y a bonne navi
gation } et il eft trcs probable, que dans quelquc
Jems on rendra navigable le Grand Saiude, riviere
qui arrofc les terres memes. Elles font agreahle«
ment divciTifiees de coteaux et vallons charman*
pfopres a la culture du tabac, du coton, du mais«
et du petit grain jet dont une proportion consider
able fe pent aifement converter en prairies fertiteSj
il n'eft peut-etre gueres pofiible de rencontrerune
pareille piece de terre a vendre dans auoun autre
des EtatsUnis ; etr p'our les conditions de I'ach at
on les rendra tres commodes.
S'informer a i'lmprimerie tie la Garette Na
tonale. Sept. 5.
LANDS FOR SALE,
TN a well f-itied Country. SIXTY-FIVE
1 THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY FOUR ACRES OF LAND, in or.e
bod/, in the molt populous part of the state cf
South-Caroltna, in thediftrift of Ninety-fix-—lt
is.fituateri in a fine healthy cr»mat*,fre« from
U ague.al> >ut sixty miles from Columbia, the fear,
of government. The land is contiguous* ro the
town of Cambridge, where are a seminary for the «
inftru&ion of youth, and a superior law co-Urt- It \
is at present within about thirty-five m les of good
navigation, with a probability of having the river,
calicd the Great Saluoa, that flows along one fide
of the land, made navigable. The land is beauti
fully diveifified into swells and vales, and is per
fectly well calculated for the culture of tobacco,
cotton, Indian corn, and ("mall grain ; a great
proportion of it may be made meadow ground.
There is' not, perhaps, such a body of land, focir
cumftanced, for faic in any other of the U; States.
The terms of payment will be made conveniiiat ta
the purchafep op purchafeis. Apply to the Priflter.
Auguli 29. tawtf
Soon tvill be puk'ifhed
THE SYSTEM OF
rj/iort- c¥€and }
Used hy. Mr. Lloyd, in taking down the Deb at a tf
Cpngre/sj —
AS\ STEM so easy. that any man, of ordina
ry capacity, may clearly comprehend il in
half an hour, and soon pr;»£iice it* in its fulleft
extent, without aoy further infrru&ron, than what
wiil be conveyed in a few pages,—the whole ART
being comprised in eighteen characters, with
out any of those perplexing, arbitrary marks, with
which the learners of other systems are obliged to
burden their memory, and embarrass their prac
tice.
Price, to Subfcrlbcrs, Ore Dollar :—to Non-
Subscribers, a Dollar and half.
Subscriptions received by Mefire. Rice. Book,
fellers, Market-street, and by
JOHN CAREY, No. 26, Pear.street,
Vlaif a Dollar to be paid at the tune oi
fubferibing.
CHARLES BITTERS,
No. 120, Sculh Market, near Fourtk-Jlreel,
Has received from New-York, and mi
nufa&ured by I.o> Merkel, ,
A large and general assortment of
Muffs and Tippets, Trimmings
and Edgings,
Great Coats, Caps, Mitts and Gloves lined
with Fur, which he will fell,
Wholcfale and Retail,
at the lowest prices.
Nov. 24. 2»wtf
NOTICE.
A LL persons having demands against the eftafe
L *- of Godfrey Vor.d-ercn, Lite of Bucks County,
deceased, are requeued to exhibit their accounts,
properly authenticated, in order for settlement—
And those who 3re indebted to said estate to make
immediate payment, to
JOHN HOUGH, Ad mini Orator.
Bucks Count,y, Dec. 28, 1792. 4?. iaw.
WANTS" EMPLOYMENT,
Either in a llry-good or Grocery Jlore —
A young man that is acquainted with both >
and can be well recommended—
Enquire of the Printer.
THEperfcn who borrowed aSILVER WATCH
1 ast August from a person near this city with
the letters M.T. (iniciais of the owners name) in
cypher, on the outside cafe, the number 4452* is
desired to return it to the printer of this paper,
or he will be advertised in a manner that will b v
difgraceful to himfelf.
4t. 2aw
For sale, at the printing office, a few copies
of the firjl volume of the National Gazett 6 .
PRINTED BY
CHILDS and SWAINE,
AT THEIR OFFICE NO. 209, HICK-STREET
NEAR FIFTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA?