Br P.FRENEAU : (at No. 209, Market Street) PMiJhtd Wedsssdays and Saturdays, [Three Dollars ptr annuir..]
Numb. 71 of Vol, I!.] WEDNESDAY, July 3, 1793.
For the Natiosal Gazette.
Mr. Freneau,
certain, that your valuable paper
A ha-! a number of inveterate enemies;
whole molt definable obj.-ct would be to
cramp the liberties of the p?f>J»W within
the narrow bound* of an obsequious auent
to every act which has the leal oft he GRKAT
affixed to it. It is no .natter of wonder
that they cry out so loudly againlt * ree "
dom of the press; for it is by it tliey re
ceive the fevcreft lathes, and which ma)
force them so bellow out. Your paper is an
enemy to despots, villains and knaves,
confeqnently, they are your gdverfar.e:
By inserting the following you will declare
war against another class oi our foes ; ant
I mod lincerely hope, that your Gazette
will, sooner or later, discover the whole
brood, and put them to a difgraceful flight.
Yours, &c. S. R.
STRUCK with the truth of that remark
which teaches us to arrange our action;
and principles in filch a manner as that all
will prove conlillent, and no particular
one will dif,:gree with its attendants, J
was led to compare my own ailions witl
the principles winch I had always imbi
bed and, through the companion, 1
found that few of my aQions prefervet
that detireable Goutiftf ncy. On the con
trary, I discovered through the genera
train ot my aflions one at variance wit I",
the other ; and the whole ot them, at war
with my principles. I was happy to fine
however, that in one important tranfaftio:]
of my life I approached nearthe re&itudt
of my breath In tiiis point, mot. ot in} fel-
Jow citizens Jiave ignorantly ftmyeet, and
acted in a manner, which, in my opinion
reftefts disgrace oil all the principles ot e
<Miaiity which they profefs to hold f.tcred
. I n ihort.rfe", what I allude to, is Hofhine
left then the late very charitable donatior
of the citizens towards the building of an
jo.fnt i Oh"-* 1 '- I a> ' . ry.r tt; ■ lean
doubt, but that on their making contribu
tions towards tHTs end, they ailed from thc
jnoft chriltian impulse. But it mud Hill
be acknowledged, that in this, their cha
ritable a£tion, they have <iift 1 aimed the
benign principles which a Benezet and a
Wiibcrforce have laboured to vindicate;
snd whieh, they thenifelves but lately ap
proved.
sty whom was this generous building firft
•ropoied ? Was it by a friend to mankind ?
'■Va» it fuggelled by a republican ? Or was
! not firll proposed by men who blehd the
vorlt ariftocratical principles with the
pm eft religious sentiments ? They led the
,uiwary charitable citizens to make liberal
< omiibutions,pleading the specious motive
of alleviating the mileries of the blacks,
and of placing them on a more-equal foot
ing ; but 1 fear, instead of this, it will be
followed by difaflrotis consequences to the
people of the United State 3.
It cannot be denied, that the molt virtu
ous men among us might be entangled b)
the intrigues anel ckieane e>f tiie nioli vici
«us. This is fufficiently evinced by the
foregoing instances; and lam ot the opi
nion. that had not the proposition jull
mentioned, been so fliortly followed by it)
encouragement, it would, at this time, be
unthought of". And instead of this utter
partition we should row fee a negrc
presbyterian or a negro episcopalian,
as heartily welcome to a feat in St. Afaph's
or Chrift'a as the whitest among us.
lam so far frdm admitting the lead por
tion of virtue to be in thispo'olic act. that
I firmly believe it to be a tin against the
Chrirtian letigion and the Almighty. Do
the christians among ns believe there are
two roads to heaver, one tor the white, the
other, the black ? would not the fame ele
ments received in the faerament by a black
man prove as effectual to the salvation or
damnation of a white one? and yet our
moiejl and humane gentry, refufe to min
gle their praises with the sincere effufions
ot some wbofe greatefl misfortune is. to
clifFer in colour! imagining, as I suppose.
that their devotions will not ascend with
such sweet favors, if alloyed by the praise;
of a negro.
But. even acknowledging what has iuft
been hinted, to be diflant from the design
of the original propofeil fay, that the
thing itfelf is dangerous to, and incompa
tible with, the equality we vow struggle
to ettablifiv I believe (tho' some may
cuntradiit it) that our constitution recog
nizes the rights of negroes. The slates
and the people abotilh tlavery, and declare
3'i 19 have etjual rights. If this be the
cafe, to cramp them under illegal reftric
tiom. i» as alarming to «(, as a meditated
attack »ii our own liberties They are
clafled among the citizens they hive, a
right to all the prviicc.es of citizens; and
tothe fame prnt.-dian' Uam government.
But alas, »tlr peace and happiness was no:
Ui reft long undiflurhed. The solves
have broke down our barriers, & are now
rievouring the flock- The roaring lion,
religions asv ell as civil, tears af'tinder the
ties which formerly united the citi
zens of the United States. An aristocratic
junta formed to butcher our liberty are
allowed to form and execute the moll
wretched schemes. And we. if we are no:
oil our guard, imift fliortly !>e hurried tc
nifery £; every wretchedaefs : & rendered
obedient to a let who now are bold enougl
;o bar the gates of heaven to all who art
lot of the 80-i .a BLOOD.
Junej4th 1791.
A trve American.
EXTRACT
' tro-n thtFAYETTEVIU.E Gazette.;
'rpROM just si ntiments 011 the rights hi
nature and society have the philofo
>hers of France, by their united and tncef
ant labours, for the last forty years, dif
jelled the magic charms which tyranny
eftabiifhed for nearly fifteen centuries, af
ifted atul nourished by the lunacy us the
Roman church that kept the inhabitants of
this great nation in chains, and ignorant of
their unalterable rights. These ch»in;
ire not only pleating to royalty, but 31'$ of
iriftocratical birth, and their ratio is the
jivine rights of kings, pailive obedience, -oi
ion-refitante: but thanks to the fupremt
Governor of the human race, who ha;
vouchfafed ro (mile on the of rege
nerated France, however laro«ntablt
and contrary to comnyra sense arid ireafon.
this heterogeneous noufenfe couid not bt
eradicated .by the juit and wiice
i)f severe complaint and bitter (titterings—
but the blood of these men, to -.vhom man
kind are highly indebted, mult be offeree
it the fhrinc of despotism.
111 England, where they boast ofhavinr
more liberty than their neighbours, and ol
tieing better informed, we find a SiuNEK
Derilhcd 011 the fcaffold ; and that lumina
ry of knowledge and rectitude of foul,
the great John Locke, was expellee
from a university for endeavouring tc
,'erve his fellow men.— The iuperior hap
piness which a federal republic has over ai
arbitrary monarchy,will ever find the nar
row and malignant politics of defpotifn
endeavouring to diflurb its peacc. Fron
the administration of the Bi itifh in
to the present epocha, AMeri C A has ex
perienced the want of jultice, humanity
and that liberality of (entiment, which tha
enemy to the rights of man, Mr. Burke
declares, tu only belongs to Britons." Frorr
this opprefiioii of the court of Britain, am
additional Itrenglh of the crown, it is ps
fumed, the report we have is too trut
that nearly one million sterling has beei
lent to these United States, for fuel) pur
•pofesas would lead to undermine and de
liroy our happy conllitution. to blacker
the cause of France, our only ally, our bell
friend—this is founded on the following
realons.
The treaty of Paris, in 1753, has beer
fulfilled by the United States, with facrei
truih; while the Britilh court has refufec
to comply with the mod important arti
cles. The Western posts and fUr trade
which belong foleiy to America, are enjoy
ed by Britain. The former colts for
guards against the depredations offavages
by our military eftablilhment. nearly out
million of dollars per annum; befidestht
horredlofles of ouriunoceht brethren who ft
value 110 price can eltimate, as freemen.—
The fur trade is worth to Britain,two mil
lion of dollars annually, and in the hand:
of these states would be more beneficia
than that enormous sum. The export:
from the provinces of upper aud lowei
Canada, confirm this truth.
Cur commerce is much fettered by Bri
tain, we are wholly retrained from the if
lands—(he has injured us with the republu
of Holland, infuited our flag, and many oi
her actions 011 the high seas. are I ittle fhcri
of piracy. Among her abuses We reckm
ihf fending itnmenfe quantities of merch
andize to these (fates, with Britilh fa£lors,
who bv eftab'ifhments all over our coun
try, participate of every privilege which
the nation enjoys—circulate BOOKS and
publications vilifyingthe republic of France,
the canfe of liberty and a republican go
vernment ; drinking toults on let days, of
fenfive to the natives of the foil. In the
refpt'clable (late of Maryland, fdine flepb
hive been taken to prevent this growing
eviI.—JONATHAN PLAIN, an inotfen
!• vc character. brought one of tbe before
mentioned book- tajiown, a few daysfince;
it had for a frontiPjjrece, badly executed.
Torn. Paine, the celebrated autlror of
' Common Sense' hanging wish the * Rights
of Man' in one hand, and a bundle of ailig
nats, or paper money, in the other.
What benefit has arisen to the yeomanry
of these slates. who are its best defence,
from the operation of the funding system ?
our immense taxes are drawn from our
selves inflead of our import beirjtconfined
to Brkifh manufactures ; and in proportion
as we get indebted to British factors, we
injure our feelings as freemen —we are fa
tisfied that they never did or will love our
government j the very idea of it make;
them flcfc.
Without a revival of the glorious fpiri:
of 1775, we have every thing ro apprehend
from the indefatigable pains of that craf
ty Premier Win. PITT, the mortal enemy
of France and America. Should the form
er be compelled to fubinit to her enemies,
our independence will be endangered.
From the intcrcourfe which, to the great
misfortune of the United Stf.tes, we Conti
nue with Britain, it is evident that we
experience many sorrows and aifli£lions* —
to a mind not callous, her conduct with
France mnft appear reprehcrrfibl-e and in
famous. The crimes which are laid to
Frenchmen strife from the efforts of ahti
republlcacs and lovers of monarchy, with
a!l that immense number of dependants
who live on the h:;rd earned labors of the
poor in Europe: who, ground almofl to
j>owder, look up to France and America,
as the last refuge or abode for the opprtf
fed.
Whether France will eftafclilh hdrrcpub
licsta government, or becrufbed bydefpots,
it does nut affect or invalidate the juttict
if her attempt —if the United States b.d
cause 10 complain of the opprefliotj of
Britain, ami to ftrugjle for the attainment
of their independence, France h*s equal
ly tbe fame, and more severe fnfferings hrre
marked her heretofore better fate. It may
be easily seen that there are few of the Eu
ropean powers but wish her ruin. Liv
ing in fertile habits of fubmilfion to their
masters, it requires a long residence with
freemen to be cured of those habits whie!
etiftom has made almost superior to the
laws of nature. Qualifying laws, proper
ly administered, would not be offenfive ti
emigrants from a monarchy to a republic;
but they would if they left their old pre
judices behind them, which we know to b«
d fikult: allowing them to be lovers of oui
government.fuel) laws would be agreeable
as they would disdain to hanker after the
leeks and roajl beef of their former unplea
fanf country.
Our revolution inull have periflied, i
could not have rtood the shocks of its de
clared anil internal enemies, if some Rrea
and illuUrions characters had not bid defi
ance to every difficulty—the lust of the eye
the pride of life,the glare of pomp and shew
they despised ; inflexibly jutt to the cauft
of liberty and uncontnmin.ited with ariflo
cratical principles and European leelings ;
i hey comp'eated their cause by a glorious
triumph.
U '. Genius tf our ration ! Cele/lial God
defs of l\trtywe invoke thy umpires
Thou Mother of Patriots, and benefice'!
proteft'ir of Republicans! Deign to looV
on us with complacency, we are thy chil
dren. O! ghoits of Warren. Montgome
ry, Mercer and Na/k, blefled (hades, arise
and bv viiion awake us out of our lethargy
may we learn this political truth, "by unit
itia we stand) and dividing (hall fall"—
That our true hnppinefs is founded oil re
publican honesty and firmnefs only."
[Exthact from the Bofion Independ
ent ChroNicle.]
"The reputation of the British manufac
turers is now reduced to the humiliating
difgraceful necefiity of depending 011 the
caf'ual affiflancc derived from the loan of t
new emiflion <>f exchequer bills ! can anv
thing be more langh;ibie,than to fee the ot
lice of exchequer turned into a pawn bro
kers shop—A receptacle for four months,
for the various manttfafiures of the nati
on. The l'cene mi,ft become truly comic,
to observe the officers of the exchequer,
and poifibly the prime minister at their
[Total Numb. 175.]
head, examining the various articles of de
polit. The officers of finance becoming
iiifpefldrs of the several packages from
Birmingham, Sheffield, arid Minchefter;
scrutinizing with ttee most critical attenti
on, penknives, {hoe-buckles, and fleeve
buttons, left feme sharper from the flocfc
exchange, fhoiild attempt to throw upon
their hands, at 50 per cent, discount, a
number of fecaud hand .11 tides, pnrchafed
on Tower hill, or, elsewhere; at 90 pef
cent. discount !
Alas ! Mr. Premier, istbiithe result of
yourfinanciering boalling? Is .hisyourfink
inefund, reserved to discharge annually a
million of the national debt? Isthistlie
prosperity yon have so loaj gSfconaiied a
bout, while opening -our ininifterial bud
get ? Were the resources of your exche
quer bills so ample as to encourage you to
commence war again!} France, cr did you
iuppofe you could carry on this contelt
with bsJes of cotton velvets from Manche
ster, or cutteatixs from Sheffield ? Do you
expect to man your fleet with a boi. :y of
tobacco boxes and jatkknives; or entice
your honed jack tars to enter into yourfer
vicef'or poPey garters to leave their sweet
hearts during their absence ? Are your
veteran troops to receive their monthly
wages in your 4 months exchequer bills,
or do you propofc that they (houlil receive
them in the various articles of your de
polits ? Should the latter be the cafe, youf
-egiments inltead of attending to the ma
noeuvres of foliliery. would be pra£ticing
[he deception of pedlars.
Though it may fcem ungenerous to ridi
cule. the misfortunes of individuals or a go
vernment, yet when they bring on their
troubles by their own folly, it may serve to
restore them to a sense of their duty, and
check an arrogance which poilibJy they have
iffiimed in the days of their profperity—Ko
nation ever appeared in a more degrading
ituation than (Great) Britain, at the pre
ent moment. Her citizens so imiverfally
'ia'rralled in their pecuniary concerns, as to
dirow tbemfeJvei ou the mercy of govern
ment, for a temporary loan of fonrimmtbs ;
»nd the governiTient totally unable to help
■hem. otherwise than by turning their pub
.ic cjihcers into pawn brokers, to receive*
Jepofits Jl tiie rate of 50 per cent., dis
count.
Let us conceive, for a moment, the dif
treiies of the nation at the expiration o£
the four months. Where is the probability
of the money being paid at the time limit -
ted? Amid such a general wreck b froper'
ty. where is the fund to arise from to re
deem the deposits? Where then is the advan
tage to accrue from the loan ? Rather will
not four mortths introduce greater distress
among individuals, than they are in at pre
lent ; having neither money to dilcharge
their notes,and their property being ftibjefl
to be fold at auftion/.b answer the demands
of the exchequer. The man that has re
reived 40001 loan, has goods in the pnbli
Cores, to the amount of Scool : piiture
1 hen the function of such a vast body of
debtors, afiefribled at the public sales, to
i.ehold their property facrificed to
the p-irpoffs of government—to obfeive
their several manufaflnres diflribntc-d a
mong pawn prokers, speculating usurers,
czc.' at 50 per cent, below their value.
Let 'ns conceive of the feelings and liun ti
<>n of the heads of manufactures, while
Inrrounded w itli "+rfio thmifsmd men, wo
men and children," who are discharged
from their employments, in consequence
of former failures.
It is needless to dwell 011 (hefe circmn
(tan.ces, as they can be more cr.fily concciv
ed than expressed. But to p<Ul to the pub
lic diltrefs, follow the miniUsr into the
house of commons, and hear the pitiful
tale of woe there related.—The nation
universally convulsed itl consequence of
the merchants and manufacturers becom*
ing bankrupts.—The demands of govern
ment calling for the most immediate com
pliance ; the resources of the nation almost
entirely stagnated. Amid this complicati
on of misfortunes, hear him stammering
out v\ ith a tremulous voice, Uiat a war is
jult commenced 5 to be carried on by loans,
at 8 per cent.
This being the real slate of Bri
tain, let the compai ifon be made between
her and trance. —Do we find ary circnm
itances To alarming in the latter? Quite
thereverfe; for notwithstanding their ex
penses, we have not found in the nati
onal convention a (injle suggestion, that
their finances are in the leait decree de
ranged or impaired : but tin y 1 ■ n now < mic
"o the Weft lilies a large fupplj of sped?,Why France is not diftrefled in conse
quence of the war, is evident they are noi
now at so much expellee, wtum under a
monarchy The reduction of the civil
more than fufficient to carry on the war.Ma
il jme Capet would spend more money inan
intrigue, than would maintain an army for
twelve months. The refou-rces of file na
tion are now applied for the defence of the
country, w.tich were belore fcjuandered
aw«y among the royal family, nobility,
pricUs, and favorites. This, one circum
ilance fubllaiKiates ihefuccefs of the nation
in maintaining their republic.
England. .Till keeps up its civil lift, and a
"RO\ AL BUCK"ct)iitimies to Iport awav
millions uta horse race.&c. 1 his particular
rtamps ruin, bankruptcy,and difgvaceou all
their measures.
Ye servile tools of royalty, and fyco
phauts of difpoiilin, while contemplating
these facts, (hrink into your original little -
liefs, and hide your d'irunifhec heads!
And yo i,political calculator, fay how the
"Balance" aands now.
For the National Gazette.
To the Citizens of the United. States,
and thoje of N. York in particular.
r pHK. accounts which we hive received
from New York, of thcinfnJts offered
to the officers of the French frigate L'Ani
bufcade. and of the contumelious language
made use of rfojetin? our gallant ally, by
the minions of delpotNlli, who are living on
the vitals of our citizens, aistl receiving the
profits of the hard earned money of our
foldiert, is not only alarming to t'le friend:
of freedom, bat a grand infnlt to the peo -
ple of America. It imrft, however, be
highlv gratifying to the Fiench nation tu
obll ■ ve the attachment of our citizens to
their former friends, by efpouling ttieir
cause, and raifnlgthe Cifj) of liberty in the
Tontine Coffee hotrfe, which was the very
spot where the previous infu'it had been
offered. I hope that the fame Jpiiit will
continue, and that the citizens of New
York will never fee the friends ofthe Uni
ted States insulted, and that they will make
those British Uibjects, at present among
them, know their places, and be contented
it'they are allowed to remain among "us.
without intermeddling in the affairs of our
country, or attempting to raise prejudices
the eaufe of liberty in France.
Their nation is immersed in debt, even
the iutereft of which they are unable to
pay ; their citizens are the moC abjefl
slaves on earth, altho' taught to believe
that they are the only people who enjoy
true liberty. The nation begirs to ilifco
ver, however, that their liberty is of the
fame species with that in Turkey, and con
sequently hate to fee any other nation hap
py while they thenjfelves are enllaved, in -
poterilhed, and uiifcrable.
Let them talk as they will, let them
boall of their fuccefiVs, and of the viftoi ie:
- they gain over rile French, fads fpeali
louder than words : while therefore we
fee their merchants and bankers failing,
and their manufacturers, by tboufands,
thrown out of employ, wlio are the greal
support of the nation, we may form a pro
per idea of the miliary, and of the dreadful
ifatein which they arc at present involved.
When they will be extricated, God only
know: —but let them know their places,
while here ; and if they do not, let them
remember that many of the patriots of
1776 are itill alive, and that the sons of
others, who have paid the debt of nature,
{fill live, and will make them know and
mind their duty who are yet ignorant oi
it, and negletf to pay the proper respect to
n country which they once wilhed to en
slave, hut which in despite of them is now
free and able to afTert its freedom in the
face ofthe Universe.
AN AMERICAN.
rhilad. June 29, 1793.
For the National Gazette.
Mr. Fueneau,
rpHE inducements which firft led men to
enter intw society were, in my opinion,
as various as the individuals who composed
it were numerous-—ln society, after the
eftabliihinent of order and laws, the
timid found protection for their per
sons and property ; the cunning an ample
field forthe exercise oftheir curled schemes;
and the daring and fortunate, favourable
opportunities of raising themselves to dif
tinflion and eminence by eHterprize, and
the credulity and'imidity of their fellow
men. The fame game we find conflailtly
played, even at the present day, in all civi
lized countries upon-earth, when a fit op
portunity offers.
Unalliited merit, it has been remarked,
rarely proves, in any-age or*country,a solid
recommendation to man : whereas atKons,
the mofl infamous and difgraceful to hu
manity, have, not uufrequently, ra-'.fed a
v.le ruffian to a throne. The scoundrel,
■who butchered thousands of his fellow
crertures. has often been honored with ti
tles and privileges, and his progeny, altho'
never so iniquitous and infamous, have
b.-en deemed sacred, and denominated em
perors or kings, to the no small injury and
(iifconragement of the communities to
which.they belonged.
Ithasbeen a with the relieving
part of mankind, to what taule is to be
ascribed tiie unqualified respect ami vc-ne
rat-iou geneMly paid in every community,
and iii all nges, by tile great mats. ot the
people, to men - 1 power, anil sometimes
even without the leait lliadow of" merit. —
Some attribute it to a mixture of ambition
and felf love, whicil leads men to venerate
that pre-eminence, at which they with one
one day or other to arrive.Others again ai
firm, that man is conftaiuly in one ot two
extremes, either a tyrant or a (lave, cut
of" which characters he uniformly exhibit*
as often as circunjltances require, v ithiiut
any regard to mediocrity.—Thisdifpofition
of the human mind, whether a natural
principle,or acquired habit, is liiliionoi ablt
to man. It links him beneath his fellows,
and prepares the way for defpotilm.
It is the peculiar blelling of republican
governments, that 110 one need be a slave,
unless lie prefers it to liberty and indepen
dence. Here merit and virtue create the
only-difunctions. The lawo make none.
Thi?ir operation and protection is equally
extended to all.
The mind unawed by artificial distinc
tions, would, we might fnppoi'e, turn away
with abhorrence, particularly in this coun
try, from the tlefpotifin of prejudice and
the influence of b 'rbarous culloms. but
do we find this to be the cafe ? Alas! No.
Men will be liavesl
Jn monarchical governments, where des
pots and tyrants fometimesfind it uect ii'ary
to iiiue proclamations, and other arbitrary
edicts, the better to enforce their authori
ty, and support their measures, we find
their minions and Haves re-echo approba
tion throughout the extent of their domini
ons. This may be neceiWy to support cor
ruption, rut how dif^racefulto the freeftates
of America, to remark on a late opcal;on,
this degrading cultom introduced amonglt
us. Admitting the expediency and.cotijli
tutionality of the late proclamation, has
the firfl magirtr.tte done any more tiian his
duty? Have we any occasion to import the
ruinous culloms of corrupt government;, ?
Have republicans need of court intrigue.,
exotic manners, secrecy or fy.cophmicy ?
Will not {implicit/ of conduct, rectitude,
and integrity, belt f«it the c.aracler ol a
free people?
T I M O N,
26th June, >793-
■■ —aMMgaw 1
[From a late Paris publication, authorized
by the Convention.
The French have begun the present mari
time war with many more advantages than
the English. Men, fhips,and money are the
nerves of war.ln refpeit to these let ut com
pare the lituation of England with our own.
In 1791, alter a pirate of seven 5 ears,
the public annual expenditures of Great-
Britain amounted to 17 millions flerling,
whereas her receipts did not exceed ili
millions. Before the revolution a million
of pounds sterling was equal to 25 millions
of our livres, that is to fay, 425 millions
w ere necessary in order to govern a nation
of about seven millions of men, while the
*5 millions of French, in times of peace,
pay nothing near the amount of that exor
bitant tax. An Englishman paysjuft three
times ao much tax as a Frenchman, so that
when the nation enters into a war, she has
nothing left to mortgage for the loans they
are obliged to make to carry on the war,
the ordinary expence for support of go
vernment in times of peace exceeding by
one million sterling their receipts; while
France has ready at all times threethoufand
millions livres worth ot national property,
as a fund for any extraordinary exigency-
And even fhonld this fund be exhatilted,
the richness of the foil and the induitry of
the French farmers oifer immense. un
touched, resources of a kind thathave been
long ago devoured by theprefling necelfitie:
of ail English ministry. There is another
circumstance (trongly marking the present
did re (fed situation of that haughty nation.
The armament,oftenlibly fitted out against
Rullia in 179 c, colt very near four millions
(terling, This Cum makes part of a debt
of 20 millions of pounds flerling, not re
deemed, whilfl the ministry, to conceal the
wretched slate of the nation under colour
of its prosperity, extinguishes yearly a mil
lion of pounds flerling in the English funds.
To fink, a million when the annual deficit
isnearly equal to a million; when near 20
millions poundsftcrling are not yet funded;
when, to face their pressing demands they
are obliged so far to descend as to draw
from the bank of England' five hundred
thousand pounds flerling, the property ot
private pertains, is flraiige work indeed f
England, since fhemade peace with Ame
rica. has creattd nearly three million:
oFadditional taxes per year. If the prc
fent war fliould continue then, it is evident
that agriculture, commerce and manufac
tures, mil ft be so exorbitantly taxed that
110 one will be found to carry them on.
The evil will (till increase, from the con
sideration that the w ,n- is directed against a
free people, against from 2; to 30 millions
of men, who are determined to can y the
matter through, or peri;h in the general
wreck of liberty. What miifl be the ex
pence of England to bear her part in fub
jngating us, when a war with only three
millions of" Americans, cost her one thou
sand uiilitwns of livres!—What are the re
foupces'of France ?—tan w r c< rstpare her
population with that of England ; upwards
o(2s millions ufFrenciyrien.afluatpd by' the
fame animating bicaih, aga:::ft 7 millions
of Euglilhmen, v. ho with inimenfe difficulty
furnilli their quota of a few thoufalic! men,
over and above tliofe who are annually
confumeil in the burning cliifcesofllit I.«U
and Well-Indies. Bei'iilti theft',- they have
i,200,0c0 Scotchmen under their domi
nion, who are weary of thoir yoke, and
ire daily emigrating to the United States,
•vi til wlittt wealth they possess. In Ireh.nd,
:luere are three millions, who To far from
iUliilg the foolifh ambition of the Englilli
:ourt, or aCilling to subjugate a Iree
people, are 011 the contrary tioin;, all in
:hcir power to imitate their example, and
rave now an army of 60,000 well organized
and well armed volunteers.
The immense population of France will
oe an mexhaulti&le fburce of foidiers and
Tailors, wherever the voice of Liberty de
mands their Cervices, whether 011 sea or
■and. Upwards of 90,c00 French faiiorsat
-i lis moment protect the three-coloured
flag, while t;:e Englilh court finds it iiupcf
ible, with the tnonftrous tounl) ot eight
guineas, toraife the additional requihte of
nme thonfand sailors only! To fit out, then,
any cunfiderabie Sect, tt.cy m lift h..ve re-
LOtirfe to their old infamous practice of
preflingmen.and thereby pi ecipitating their
uwu ruin, in%xciting a spirit of infuirec
tion. Let us never forget that the war we
are engaged in is unexampled in the annals
of Eur ops : it is the \t bote 11 a ion righting
agaiuft the hirelings of miserably
paid, and frequently inimical to the catife
they are engaged in; and the Course ot re
cruiting will soon bediied up.
II
fFrom a French pamphlet, very lately
pubi/ji'.si at I a. is.]
An HTftorical exposition of th? motive?
thatlcdtoa rapture between the Kreiicii
republic and the king of Great Britain.
WHEN the French nation made a for
mal avowal of tlwif political independents
and civil liberty, ti.ey could nut avoid pay
ing some attention to tliemnnefousnations
in their neighbourhood. It was a inatti r
of confidera'ole moment to find Come, if
poliible, who by a happy congeniality of
opinion might applaud at lead, if they
could not co-operate in the new fociai 1);
tejn that was set en foot. Situated, as it
were, in the midst of a vast number of na
tions fubjeel to the yoke of despotism,
France perceived the neceffiiy us an alli
ance, and a free communication of the re
ciprocal sentiments of a fraternal friend
(hip.
Britain, that idand To fortunate for a
("udecflion of ages, the abode of pMlU'ophy
allxl the arts uleftil to man—aniiland, Lh.it
in the last century difplaycd so (liining sii
example ol its native energy, Cftmed to
hold tip to the infant rc r ub!.c of FranseJ
men and principles worthy of her efteern.
In this view France gave herfclf up, with
a degree of entirrtfiaflic warmth, to the
plthilitlg tllulion, tfcar an ir.dili'ohible union
might take place between twogrtfat nati
on . that had for ages been the prey of
court perfidy and ininilterial ambition.—
At rliis period there were many fymptonn
of a reciprocal efleem and growing friend
(hib between the two nations (had they
been left to themselves)- which if attended
to Would have regenerated the world'and
enfureda permanent rtpene to all F.urope.
There were still in England men of free
and liberal spirits who dared to Ipenk their
fefttiments in their public congratulations
of an. ASSEMBLY, which at th«t time
wis the voice of the French nation —
They even formed focietic* to corcefp• 'id
with their continental brethren, in order
to smooth the way to fdcial felicity, and
to ensure forever the peace. tranquility,
airrl independence of mankind.
Could any oue have forefcan that this
accommodating fplrit between the two
nations would become the principal source
of a jealousy and hatred which w i t even>-
tualiy catife the (bedding of torrents of
blood in the four parts of the world I In
a rtiere brotherly correspondence between
hisfubjects and the regenerated cirizen-i of
France, George the third perceivect no
thing but plots and" schemes to overturn
liis throne. Either thro'fear, or the in
trigues of an infidiotiy policy, he gained so
far upon his subjects as to prevail upon
thera to (land up in defence of a cunftittf
cion which had never been infringed ex
cept by himfelf and his predeccHbrs. The
liberty of the press, the right of refi'ling
lawless authority, and the peaceable afiem
blingof the people, those sacred privileges
of every English citizen, fell a prey to his
ambition ; and while he abused the con
fidence of his fubjeits, he prevailed upon
them to become the inltruments of their
own deftruftion, and to (nrrender to the
nod of tyranny all that is dear to man.
To prevent the people from perceiving
the strides of his uftfrpation;, it becamt
ne'eefftrv to fix their attention upon the
affairs of foreign l nations. Their mind
w ere to be employed, vnd imaginary dan
gers were to be conjured ~ j in order t<:
conceal real k'ff- s. A war wit!: Frailer,
it was thought, would aufwer a threefold
purpose. 1 ft. It would prevent an interi
•jr reform, 2d. the creatures and depen
rfenr-- of die c6iirt vou!d be immenfi-'y irt
creafed ; and, 3dly. it would prevent any
4nfwer being given to the demands of the
nation, originating from Pitt'* pompous
promises, that the enormous debt tinder
which they labour, (liouid be gradually
aboli:!iec*. —Among that mercenary herd
of men who are ever willing to ftiblift up
on public calamity, the king and hib tome
soon found adherents, in abundance.—
Cohftitiition v as every where the rallying
word to the agents of tyranny, while the
true friends of liberty andofriheir country
hardly dared to vent their froans under
the mrferies that were impending* The
fame petniciouimeafures which for twelve
years together were employed againlt tlie
free Americans, were again to he
to agailill the in aUit'j. The molt abfurA
calumnies, reports the mod improbable,
were induftrioti fly circulated .hi i/i.,igland.
to irritate the m.iidi of the people
the pretemledplots of a French faflion in
the kingdom. The fentimeuts ot the pa
pular p.crty in France, were asserted to be
in union with this faction ; and :o compter
[he ahfurdiiy, a dcreiiftion of the Roman
Catholic rci.gion wa.-.madeacba'-gc aeainft
us, altho' England herfelf bad diileilted
from it, and eiftablifiied the 111 oft solemn
laws of reparation frcm its communion
many years before. The denial of the
pope's fuprencac) was also made a charge
against us in a country where every person
holding the leali employment wider go
vernment mult prtiionfly abjureitin form;
and where all tivofe who are so unfortu
nate as to belies e in the Roma , pontiff, or
Sdbtre to nis creed, are fiercey ftifferetl
to eijoy the meanest rights of citizeiifhip.
With such pitiful arguments, how ever,
the ITugliih mir.rftiy kept tie nation in
play for near a year, and at length gained,
so far upon it as to render a war with
France a popular objefi among a great
part of Che people—a war, which belides
the enormous expcnces it will give birtli
to, will deprive England «f the <arioi:;
commercial advantages ll,e miplit 1...vc efl
joyed, provided {he had uoiitredto 4 firitk
netiti ality.
The commercial treaty of i*B6, int»
which the Freuah lnimt'lry had been fur -
prized, and which gave the }". gl.lh nation
ine."tpr« liible advantages over us, v;s not
w ithflandir.g refigiouCy i*U!e<v» do* Frame
altho'after tile declaration ol our cull 0-
vi 1 rights we ir.'ght fairly have pioreftfd
agulnit that and ether political measures
lending our national difadi .-tillage. from
the ainudoned criminality or ignorance of
the old despotic court. Till tie moment
of the declaration of the preffclit v aj", the
F.ng'ifh nation continued Loder-ive hi.meffe
w e.ullt from this fwurcc, and in a nurtier
lo rob the Fr;u«h ol their own p«c.pe>;»,
whith hcrw vi ,-.s not c.sJtJljtfsi.ied of.
nor was am rtmonftranee s'lvacl* ay,*itrfl the
articles of this ruinous treaty, fne ba
lance of trace was invariably agaii/t
France, and her ready cacti flowed ;r;:o *
country which, for a century pal' has ab
[ol bed the wealth' anth resources of alli olt
every nation that has been connt 'ed with,
ijei"in tics of comniertf.
Without attending to the pettmin-v !of
(es which were the effect of tins ire.- ty, (he
people of France were flattering them
selves with the idea, tiut this commercial
connexion would gi.ve. birth to a (triit
friend Ihip with a nation whom they efleem
eri, beeaule among them had been kept
alive, more than in any other nation, the
generoas charafler and principles of a free
people. It was hoped that an nivm ; .geous
commerce would gradually cxiiiiguifh
those mutual hates and prejudices, the ef
icfts of tiro political perfidy of ministers ;
and tiiat "for the genera) welfare of the
human race two o! the moffc power) it! ~nd
best in ormed nations of Europe would
also be the molt nearl) allied iirbctx.'of
Erie dfliip.
To gratify his perfmol refertmenc, the
king (George) has throw n behind him tl.ii.
cheering profpeit, and the bloud'of his ftib
jefts mull now be fptlt in a calife w hiclf is
abfolutrly foreign to 3nv concern ol riieihs;.
and he wonld not have delayed his vc. ,-e
----aflce so long had it not been that the chirk
plots of the combined powers 011 the con
tinent, were in his opinion amplvfufricient
to crnih the libsrties of France.
For a long time the French nation con
cealed She knowledge it ready had »i j f he
secret tampering of George the 3d by:
nu.-.ns of his einillaries, with the differ
ent courts of Europe. I:t is with l egretr
that our nation now so far cor.descends -if.
to mention (o contemptible an animal as-
Calonn; ; but the political exist . ace vvhj; I*
the court of London has bellow ed epoTi
iiiin, the endless irtirigiies which rltis t.puf.
tate has been guilty of in the j»ilhcipal .
courts. 111:: boldneCs, his aitivity. the !.;■
and faltlioods he his spread throughooc
Europe; in Ihort every (lep and trajilar
tion of this man. proclaim h'::,
avery way tit and proper ty be the ft.; n.l
principal wicked inilrument to car ' itjiu
cffect tile malevolent deligns of C c crj-. —
It is really honourable to the Enj ••■.n
on, that in her whole domain o- er a...
ry (he could hot find an object of iier ov .
growth, base enough to do w . he c»
has done, or submit to the iof nee.,
ploymo.t he undertook T?he :t; :>!t c..-
rupted' agent of Loui v « 'i d t , t,; *.
proi'cribed by public fc.odl 5< :in t' r r-. cs: 6f »]1 Fit rope, was alone ade
io a million,of thi* nature. It was
to (Jnrpofetbat ihe court of London de
; ...I any connexion wjtli, or knowledge
i the <1 «rk practices of this man. the more
i: 11■ i: 1:11, hv over and above the mifclliefs
be had brotiglit upon a great part oi Kit
ri'pe, lie has plunged into the abyss of nii
ft'iv even thole who were
milled by his impofhire. His re-iterated
j iuti.ie.- to the V irions rot,i ts of Europe,
Jiis conferences with the Uritifh niinifler,
bis. .precipitate departure from London,
the gene, a I light in which the Engli/h na
tion beheld him. all proved him to be the
grand of the ining tte» of tlieir court.
We (b ill not anticipate here the many
rai.fes of complaint which w ill be brought
forward in the official pieces which the
national convention has ordered to be nub
] Wiled for the in(pe£tion of tiie public eye.
They are all placed in eXact order of date.
Europe and an impartial posterity will be
the be?t judges of the reciprocal conduct ol
the two nations and their leaders.
PHILADELPHIA.
Wednesday, July 3.
" The crviimercial credit of Great-Bri
tam, from war it is engaged in—the
want offufikient circulating medium ; the
numerous bankruptcies—and the impedi
ments to the sale of its manufactures, ha
recently fuifered a severe flinck. To re
medy the evil, an ast ha- pissed the Brit iff
p irliament, forthe loan of exchequer bills
to the amount of live millions sterling, or
tiie depo'it at the exchequer office.of good'
or other securities. Twenty commiflioner:
are chosen to put the acl into execution
I he r.n.hlefl fnm to he advanced to an)
individual, will be 4.ooo!.—and not more
than 50 per cent, will be admitted on ma
jiufattureel, and 60 on ra\v materials :
7-Vom this measure the Hritifh governmenj
anticipates a cure for an evil, which threa
tens the kingdom with a serious disaster ;
and Mr. 1 ox, the champion of oppolition,
has Ttid, tharalthough he had no hand ir
plungi.ig the country into the pernicious
war tit it had occn toned the mi'fehief, he
did not wiih to be reproached witli oppofinj
t.ie lemedy, now the Hiifchief had arrived.
11l conference of thef.; lite failures, and
the ft agnation of the public credit, upwards
of one hundred and sixty thoufaiid men.
women and children, formerly employee
in the cocton manufactures in Scotland
have been dismissed, and are in great di!'-
trc-f:. On the accuracy of the above the
public may rely." [Boflan Csut.]
Ex/rail s gentleman in ion
do i to his correjp anient in Philadelphia,
lilted April 30.
'•I amforry to And that there iiafcarcitj
01 money with you ; but here, general
ci edit is mofl alarming utuation. With
in thePe fiitee.'i days, no less than ninety
fix bankrupts have appeared in the gazette:
five gazettes contained 123. Mr. Pitt':
motion to advance to the merchants foul
or five millions in exchequer bills, on de
pofitmg property to the value of onehall
more, is literally commencing pawn-bro
-general ; for to turn those exchequei
warrant* into hard money, left than 7 pet
cent, will not be asked. They are to beifluet
in final! funis—fay from 20 to tool.—Thef<
are the happy ctfecfs of war."
Richmond, in Virginia, (according; to i
letter from thence) is full of patriots, am
no enemy to the French revolution among
them cares open his mouth to vent his petti -
leroiisprinciples. Judges Jay& Iredell hac
fini.hed the dlfcuflion on the payment o]
Old Bntifh debts, in favour of the British,
Jo tbaf the treaty of peace being now full;
complied with on the part of the Ameri
cans, it is expetfed a demand will be made
ot tnefurrender of the western ports, and
we thai! soon fee whether Great Britain
r tc violate all faith by the detention
tie -tie s S ' ° r t0 coln P'y with exiftinj
We hear from Old Spain, that the war
with r ranee is tar li 0111 being a popular
. P vv,t " tf >« nation, any more than an al
liance with England. The court and the
clergy have lately had recourse to their old
tnck of patrioticgifts from the na
tion in order to screen themselves from
bearing a share of the burthens of the war.
•But the project has not fbcceeded as for
merly. Ihe people begin evidently to
perceive that while kings and priests are
what tiiey are among them, the liberties of
the people arc 110 more than an empty
name. r
We expect great troubles here this rum
mer (fays a late letter from Strabane, in
Ireland); We arc threatened with all
the horrors 01 a civil Worse than
herce .ffitna's molt definitive fires,"—The
volunteers are all fupprefled by the to-
Ternment seizing their lire arms and am
munition—the mini 11 ry have imprifoneci
the patriotic Oliver Bond, ail! the Rifht
Hon. Simeon Butler, in Dublin, for takins?
part with the volunteer—where they are
doomed, for widiiiig well to mankind, to
'''■ > months in a dreary dungeon,
aiid hned in 500). each.
Tije Governor of Sctwh'CaroJlaa, on
the Bi!i of /.-me, ifl'ued a proclamation,
prohibiting vcflcU from. Grenada, or any
t>ther of (he windward Well-India islands,
coming nearer to the'city of Charleflon
than Fort Johnson, until they have under
gone an examination: credible evidence
having been received that a pestilential
difeafV i prevalent Hi tiiofe iftands. The
Waller Warden of the port of Philadelphia
has ifTued similar orders, limiting Hie ap
proach of fnch vefiels to Mud-idand, .fill a
report is nude of the condition of their
crews, Bic. by the health-officer of the
port.
Several American veffelshave been la!el>
taken bv B. tmJ: privajterr, and carried in
fo St- Kitts, and other of their windward
i{lands. On Saturday June 22 arrivedut Bof
fin the bri'i J 'n.'W a,capt. Paine,from point
Pctre, but last from St. Fufbtia. vvhish he
left the 3d of June. Three days aftei
capt. Pa: pe left Point Petre, he was taker
oy the Brjtifh privateer* Betsey and Polly
and carried into St. Kitts, and was there
detained lor inspection, by conrt of admi
rally, .20 days : when, after depriving bin
«f his pafrer.gers (f 5) their palfage-money,
»ml ali the property they had on board,
with great difficulty he obtained a pass, anc
was allowed to leave the place. t'rbn
the treatment his pufiVngers received \v hi I <
he was there, he has re.ifon to think, the)
afterwards experienced the greatest fe'. e
rity.
Kentucky papers to Juhe lit, give man)
melancholy account* of murders and de
predations committed by the Indians or
and within the frontiers of Kentucky. Ac
counts from the territory South of the
Ohio, are nolcfs difagreeahle with refpefl
to the general conduit of the savages. On
the 2"; d of May two Ghickafaws and a
Cherokee (unarmed) were fired upon b)
(omc persons unknown, in the woods, not
foo paces from governor Blount's house.
One of them, John Morris, was mortall)
wounded, and died soon afterward-:, fj I
ivas interred by order of the goveriKjr,
with the honours of war.
V. e have no advices from F.urope firtce
3ur ialt that contain any th;ag new or Vecj
iiterefling.—The Duke of Orleans, am
•he other members of the Bourbon fami
ly, had set out from Paris for Marseilles,
iccording to the decree ol banirtiment.
His party is entirely ruined, aud 110 adhe
ent of his dared to appear in public—New
recruits were dailygoing off to the armies,
w ell clad and accoutred. Additional for
tifications of immense ft renj?th were making
it Lisle, and every circiniiftance seemed to
mnonnce that the national armies meant
:o contend every inch of ground with the
<~ans.—A camp of fourteen thousand
n . e-ndi troops were forming at C a (Tel, un
ler the command of general Omaran. The
Pruflisns had abandoned Launoy, Tour
lay, and four or five other places which
tad surrendered to them through Dumou
•ier's treachery.—Gonde, Qnefnoy, and
Valenciennes, were in a manner block
ided by tl»e enemy, who were bringing ali
:lieir forces to that part of the frontier,
general Dampierre had added 20,00 c
men to his means of defence, and blood)
kirmiliies were every day taking place -
It was reported that the Swiss Canton:
were immediately tojoin the confederacy 01
"overeigns, and to put their forces undei
the command of Dumourier.—Home af
fairs in Germany wore a bad afpect.—Th<
Elector of Saxony was tinder the neceflin
of requiring an extra fublidy from his Rates
in order to furnifh his contingent of mo
ney, which was Bco.OOO crowns for tlx
preset* campaign. The tiers etat had pub
licly declared that it was impolKble foi
them to support such burthens, even tht
ordinary taxes being Intolerable— Th<
government did not itifift, and their re
source was, to fnfpend the annual paymen
of the sum destined for redeeming the pub
lie debts, being 7C0.0C.0 crowns yearly
the other hundred thousand Was furnilhec
by "ie nobility—in other parts of Germa m
the expence-:> of t lie war \\ ere daily render
ing the government more and more odious
and it was intimated that if another cam
paign is to be made agaiuft France in 1794
the nobility and the priefls mult furnith thf
means,as the caui'e v. as theirs only,and noi
of the people.
N.York Da Ily Advertises
of last Thnrjiay• J
Tll consequence of a Notice to the Officer:
of the late New-York line, to meet tlx
24th instant (June) to receive the repori
of Mr. Jofepli Brown, their Agent, tht
following letter was presented, and i
pubiUlied for the information of thofs
who are absent.
T« the Officers of the late American Army
in the Jtcite of New- York,
Gfjjtlemfn,
FOR your unrenmnerated services, facri
fices, and fufferings during the late war,
you did me the honor last winter of ap
pointing me your agent, to present your
memorial to Congress, and solicit your
1 lain)?—an office I the more readily un
dertook, believing the juflice and dignity
of the I nited States concerned in compen
sating such acknowledged earnings, and
fulfilling their mod sacred contracts, that
while unpaid, entail 011 the gfl
ve.'nmn.t, and a on humanity—but
with the Hroft poig.i ..it grief for the honor
ul America, I am obliged to fay th'at the
demon of ingratitude has recorded the
i el' It 01 your memorial .
If the refo res of the United S:ates had
been infnfficie. t to make a proper compen
f.itioß, an apology for t!ie refufal might be
admitted ; but w hen we fee tile public mo
ney laviliily bellowed on oHicers of the ci
vil li!',. to.uipport the present government,
and i .20?,ooo dollars annually appropriated
in carrying on ail unneceiFtry and fruitlefs
Indian war, such inability cannot be ima
gined : one t .eelfth of this f,im as an annu
ity, woi-itl be fnfnciem to fiveeten the eve
of the l.ves of those wl.ofe morning & noon
has been devoted to tne service ol a coun
try that enjoys peace, liberty and fafety.
If you had petitioned for the funis actu
ally due <>ii principles in the
courts of jul'.iee, throughout the United
Stales, you had a right to 17/6 in the pottndj
but, when you offered ti take up with the
facings wh eh government had made out oi
the army debt, and your claim was denied,
and your cafe without remedy, every ho
"ell man bltilhed at the ingratitude of the
Representatives of the United States.
1 he funding (y It em (or more properly
the armji confiscation act) pays the poflef
for ol vourdue billsabout 15/ in the pound:
the relit!tie fa in the hands of government
which nothing but the mult unjnflifk.blt
detention can kt.ep IVom you—and on re
ceiving this, it wntiltl not amount to mor<
than one third of the sum flipulated ftfi
your mouths wages.
1 he succeeding Congress will be a mon
equal representation, and I flatter myfel:
will not fulter the dignity of the Unitet
States to be flung with the reproaches o:
all nations—nor their cor.tilOehts to h<
d:Appointed in having ample and complete
jaftice done.
As ycu will uiHjueltionnbly renew youi
application, permit me to lugged to you
an idea cr. the fubjea. The prefldent ha;
hitherto been silent, probably he feels hurl
that you have never applied to him as yotit
friend and j>atron to lecond your applica
tion; you probably may think he ought tc
have done it without, as no mail can be
mure indebted to others than he is to the
lute army, and no man knows better their
facrifices and fufferings; however be this
as it may, adtii ess yourselves to him, he
" ill not, he cannot avoid iuterelting him
fclf for you.
I have the honor to be
Your molt humble servant.
josr.ru hrowne.
* The courts have invariably decreed
that all payments (without fpecific agree
ments; made in paper,(hall b<. estimated at
the current and not nominal value of such
paper. ' - —
The controve; ij which the ambiguous
language of the Prcfidcnt's proclamation
gave rife to, ought certainly to cesfc upon
his own explanation of it. In his anfvvei
to the address from the merchants of Sa
lem, I once more trace the language ol
Gen. Washington—" In making this de
claration (he fays) I was persuaded that I
spoke the willies of my Countrymen, with
out violating any political or moral obli
gation." He does indeed speak their lan
guage, & the only one befitting him as their
head, when he declares it their duty ant!
interest toobferve a neutrality without vi
olating their obligations. In any other
language, one can lee nothing but the mi
lerable duplicity of a pawnbroker; deriv
ing its hopes from an alliance with foreigr
factors, and availing itfeif of the fears of <
fsrdid collection of lix per cents. It is 1101
a grateful circumflance to a teal lover 01
his country to fee its outset marked bj
such an influence, i hope the detection
howsver, of this firft effort to disgrace us
will fatisfy these people that if they intend
ed an experiment, they havemillaken thoft
up'-m whom it was to be tried ; and if the;
! really designed to facrifice the national re
putation to their private lecuritv, or emo
lument. they deserve a punilhmeiit which
until they favour us with a second effort,
j may be left to their own feelings. It i:
obvious that three words in the proclama
tion, would have precluded the neceflity oj
the explanation now given of it, and thai
it mult have been painful to the Prelideni
to find its n »:aning called for : He is verj
little obliged therefore to those who force
him forward to make that intelligible,
which, it:s now clear, he never intended
Ihould be left in uncertainty. At all event's
the American public have now gained a
conltruttion, and find their infant republic
speaking, at a second effort, that language
which becomes it, and whichit would have
lpoken at firlt, but for the efforts of those
whofeem creeping into its cradle, with a
v.icw to overlay it.
[New-York Daily Adv.]
**„ Tomorrow completes Seventeen
years since the Declaration of Independence
in this country. By accounts from differ
ent parts of the United States, the day will
be very generally celebrated, in comme
moration of that extraordinary event,
which gave birth to the infant liberties
of 3 millions (at this day near 4 millions)
of our countrymen, and which seems
finally to involve in its conferences a lit w
political order and condition of thing; a-
mong mankind, infinitely ircfire favourable
than at mjy former period, to the general
happineft of the species; It may be here
proper to remark that the mere obferra
tion of the Day can answer no valuable
purpose, if, amidfl the hilarity ufuaily ma •
nifeftrd on the occalion, it does not recall
every intelligent mind to a rational re-ex
amination and conviction of the truth of
those great principles upon which our re
volution was founded, and which if not
duly attended to by every citizen in his
whole line of conduct, might, for U9, as
well have never been called into exigence.
Let republican patriotism revive, then,
and let every individual re-acknowledge
those great and benign principles that ac
tuated his countrymen or himfelf ©n the
FOURTH OF JULY, 1776, in the glori
ous cause of the rights of human nature,
political equality, and a government lo.un
ded on the authority of the people.
On Friday afternoon last, at half after 6
0 clock, precisely, Mr. Blanchard began to
till his balloon for a parachute experiment.
In four minutes it was full and in the air
tin e£ minutes elapsed before the parachute
detached Itfelf, and it took about one mi
nute to reach the ground.—The whole ex
periment succeeded completely. The
Rotunda was handsomely filled.
ftjp Several interesting communications
are unavoidably deferred till Saturday.
Anecdote of the famous Sidney.
DURING Mr. Sidney's stay in France,
one day hunting with the French king, ami
being monrted on a fine Knglifh hoi re,
whose form and spirit caught the kingjs
eye, he received a message that he would
oblige the king with his horie, at his own
price. He anhvered, that he did not
chtife to part with him. "I he king W3s de
termined to have 110 denial; & gave orders
:o tender him the money, or to seize the
torfeiwhich being made known to Mr.Sid
ney,Ae inOantly took a pistol and fi.othim,
[jying, * 4 That his horse was born a free;
creature, had served a freeman, and should..
lot be mattered by a king of (laves."
PROBATIONARY ODES
of Jonathan PiNcar, Esq.
( Continued.)
ODE VII.
To the Well-Born.
tjntief- the type of the Heathen God'
Jonathan iehearfe£h the virtues o
aristocracy.
Parce, prtccr, Stimuli n Ov id .
CONS of" OLYMPUS, ail ! I kiss your
hands,
A {lately company, as I'm a sinner !
My little Codlings! what are )our com-'
mands ?
1 hope you do not mean to flay to dinner.
\Ve've no Ambrosia here—plain beefsndl
mutton
Your Godjhipi'' (tomachs will mod furelv
turn;
Nor for our would you give ;«
button
Stlcli home-brevfd neffar yon willfpurn
We have no GanyMedEs—no wanton
Venus,
Nor ugly cuckold Vulcan, for a but;
No pln-iping Mercury to j_o between 11s,
Or pick our pockets, or ourpurfes cut.
We have no Juris ers, with lust utl
botuided,
Otir fair alcmenAs to seduce.
No drunken Bacchus, with his tuns fur
rotmded ;
No Mars, God wot ! can we produce.
We have no Proteus*, changing evefy
hour,
As with his whim or interest (lands,
No greedy Saturn to devour,
His children in the midwife's hands.
VVe for your play-mates have nb littfe
CUOID
To (boot at people when they're off their
guai tl :
We mortals, truly, are so fhipid
To think fucli treatment w ere a little hard.
Such fit companions you'l not find,. I
(wear :
Then, why the devil, (liould you tarry
here f
Each En:brio RcNui.us & AlkkAkdm,
So eager now to fill Fame's hundied tiuin
pcts.
Would deem it neither crime nor (lander
To prove t'.eii virtuous mothers i\\ umpets;
If Ba/lards they will be reputed
Of Gods thai had their Dads corn cited.
Ye woufd-UVu AetoNs, now fpintent
To mount and !<: t 11s in a blaze,
Or drive usto the devil and all ;
Trust me, you'd better be content,
For, ere you've try'd it many clays,
By G— y6u'l get a fall.
* Jonathan is cenainly in'ftaken— we
ha\ e a number of them.St. Domingo Affairs.
[Continued from our lajl.~\
Copy of two Pieces annexed to the letter
of J. L. Cotelle,written to Citizen GE
NET, ambassador from the French re
public to the United States of America,
reiiding at Philadelphia, dated Chetter
town, 9th June, 1793 —both pieces
having been tranfaiitted to citizen Ge
net, together with the letter by J. M.
Efnault, on the 13th of the fame month.
\_See our
ExSraS frr.m the proceedings of the /Jfemlly
of the Commune of Csyes in the iflcmd of
St. Domingo, in the fijfion of the 29th oj
January, 1793.
" A CITIZEN propofcd that the af
fem'biy should guarantee their per
fonalLiberty to all and every the members
of the Commune." This proposition was
rece.ved and decreed by the general voice
ar.d re-iterated (hout of the citizens, who
•without diltinftion of colour, swore <0 ob
{civ? it. Another citizen then addrefTed
liimlelf to the assembly, and informed
them. " that several ci izens had been ta
icen frOTi their duellings and confined on
board the frigate Saphira, in the road ;
that others were deptived of the r public
emplov Ticnts without any previous notice,
or a respeCt to the forms prescribed by law,
and that w thout the rega'd due to citi-
Zti ship, the civil commissioner had taken
■upon hind'i f to enact and au'horize the
execution ot certain tyrannical ed:fts, net
c fideii-ng that the firft and great law o!
public fafety (hould have difcouragcd ar.d
prevented such abnfes; but that nevertbe
lefs jufticc, that guardian dci y of an afTo
ci ted people, (and which directs all their
public ads, when they h ve the courage
t regulate them by that standard) ought
to induce the afTembly to a declaration
whether it was the r opinion that the citi
zens, then ast a ally filtering under the sen
tence of the civil commissioners; sre guilty
of treasonable acts againtl their country, in
a (late of rebellion, or in a capacity of mc
letting the public tranquility—it they
should deem that not to be the cafe, & those
citizens were to be considered as petty
conspirators, who could not escape the vi
gilant eye and protecting care of the civil
commissioners, then in such cafe it should
be their duty to demand an explanation on
the fubjeft, which (V.ould carry conviction
into the minds of the public, and clear up
the motives of cenduft that actuated the
civil commissioner."
This motion was received, supported,
and difcufled by a great number of warm
speakers, and the fnbjeft matter thereof
maturely deliberated
•" The alTembly taking into considera
tion, that altho' it may not belong to them
to deliberate on the extent of the powers
and the authority confided to the civil
commissioners, yet it is an inconteftible
truth that they are nottofurpofe that the
(pirit of the several laws which have crea
ted civil commissioners either in the French
departments, or the colonies, for the pre
servation of peace and public tranquility,
or recalling the citizens to those eternal
truths which ought in future to form the
basis of the French social compact, a ftrift
equality among all members of the com
munity without diflir.ftion of colour, and
th" n-reatefl regard for property and indi
vidual libe ty— we fav, we are not to sup.
pose that the legislature meant to under
mine in the least tnebafis of these truth;
and principles, which are irrevocable ilill
less to infringe that firft and unalienable
right, recognized by the nation at large,
(who have delegated their autho ity) thi
right of watching over the execution of thi
laws.
The afTembly ccnfidering further, thai
jt is no intrusion upon the authorities 01
poweisof the civil commissioner to requefi
an explanation of the use he has made ol
them, especially as it is probable that thro'
an over heate zeal he may have inter
preted th fe powers erroneeu.ly,& have cr
red in carr ing them into execution,with a
feveiity too, that might have given uneasy
fenfatioi s even to a civil commissioner, toe
well fixed in his republican principles to
infringe them inconliderately ; and which
has equally afflicted all our citizens, in
keeping them in constant fear and dread ; a
state insupportable to French republicans :
And considering also another principle,
common to all legislation, that the letter oj
the law lilleth and the spirit maheth alive,
our citizens have reason to believe, that
the powets delegated to the several Cl "
commillioners (how extenfivc soever we
nay suppose them, or however pcfitivc
(heir a. uthority) do not yet go beyond
those generous principles that have eUa
blilhedtlie French Republic, ill left to
violate that fundamental law, the declara
tion of the rights of men and citizens in
a (late of society.
Conlidering, again, that (he natural
consequence to be deduced is, that the
oowers of the civil commillioners, ahd the
inftru&ions they have received, do not
give them a discretionary power to inflicl
upon the citizens such punishments as de
privation of place, arrest, and banishment,
which should be reftri&ed to those only
who have made a deliberate .reftftance tc
the law, and are guilty of trcafon ; and
that even with regard to these their con
viction must be left to the laws and forms
that are the prote&ors and confervatorj
of the precious rights of man, ih a llateoi
society—considering all this, it is plain
that citizens fufpefted of crimes, of trea-
Ton, or of difobedier.ee to the law", ought
to be denounced to their natural judges,
before whom they may clr.;m thejuftice ol
the law, or pay the penalty due to then
criminality.
Conlidering, finally, that Citizen Poi
cer 1, the civil cotnmifltoner, has in th<
tnoft public manner afiented to theCe prin
:ip!es in declaring that citizen Leor
I'erigny should remain judge in the colony
DEC REED therefore, that an address foal
be drawn up and pr-fented, in the nai*c o:
he commune of Cayes, to the national civi
tomm flioner, by the prcfident and fecre
:ariei of this aflembly, which in the firfl
tdace (hall express the sincere resentment o
he citizens at the profpeft of the profcrip
ion and banishment of many among them:
ind accordingly in virtue of this cecret
t shall be required of him to explain the
reafon 1 :, on the validity of which he die
ated certain laws; and demanding that
n future those accused of any crime what
; ver (hall have previous and indifcnminate
lotice of their accusation, in the form pre
cribed bylaw , to the end that all citi
:ens, without dillindtion, may exert them
elves to support an authority which wil
je always dear to them, as long as it fhal
egulate itfelf by those maxims of equity
ind impartiality,on which it was crtgiiiali;-
ir.ftituted.
(Signed) ROLGTN, President.
ESNAULT and
COTELLL-, Secretaiies.
[To be continued.]
LANSINGBUKG June 26.
A gentleman arrived here yesterday as
ternoon in jlift two weeks from Niagara ;
le informs 11s that the commissioners of the
United States, to the Indian nations at svai
•vith us, were then there in waitingto at
:end the treaty at Sandnflty, which had bee;:
joitponed until thefirrt of July, 011 accouni
:>f the Indians being unable to general!)
ittend sooner. Capt. Brandt fat outfoi
Sandufky abotit the third of May : previou:
to his departure for that place, in frequeni
tonverfations with our informant, who i:
nuch in his frienddiip, he gave as his opin
on, that no peace could take place unti
the Ohio and MuflOngum (hall have n;adc
the division line. Capt. Brandt very fin
.erely exprefl'ed his good wiihes toward:
the United States,and supposed it go«d po
licy, to make those rivers the boundary ;
ind should either refufe that article in the
treaty, he would take an active part againP
them. 1
pRt ESTCRAFT IN DANGER.
That the Englifli lords fpirirttal—the am
jafTadors of the Prince of Peace —fhcuk
fate for the war against France, can beac
tounted for on no other principle thai:
that in the French Revolution, they f»w
the " craft in danger.'' But they have
reckoned without their hod ; for one of the
British miniiters has told the Right Rever
end gentlemen, that as soon as the ordinary
means of railing fupphes were exnatifted
and from the then (late of the nation, the
period did not seem remote —their fat re
venues mufi be looked to as the firji rejoicrct'-
We may therefore, speedily expett to hear
their loud ejaculations for peace —and the
prayers of such pious men muit 6e heard !'-
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold at-the refpe&ive Bock Stores 0<
Joseph Cruhjhark and Hamas Dtbfoi, and
be Mad at the Printing other, No. 2C9, Mar
ket-Street. [Price one eighth of a acllcr.]
LETTERS,
Addrefled to the Yeomanry of the
United States:
Containing some Observations on Fuiidit.g
and Bank Sy/lcms:
BY AN AMERICAN FARMER.
For PORT AU PRINCE,
The fad failing Ship
'BETSEY,
i 7". E D READ! NG, Marter :
BURTHEN two hundred and fifteen toni: Shr
has beenjuft hove down and is in complex
irder. Has ejcellent accomcnoiationt for pal'-
.t ngers,and will fail byths lsthof July nUt.Foi
riciu+it or passage apply to the Captain on board,
■ r to Mr. John Dunkin, merchant, No. 105,
iouth Water-ftrcet-
June 29. 3-
Pour ie Port au Princt,
Le Navire LA BETSEY,
Capitaine Recd Reading,
DU PORT de deux cens et quinze tonneaux
tres bon voilier ; a ete fraichement ra
iouoee, et en !e meilleur etat pour la *ner. Li'
Betle\ eft bien accornrnodee a prendre les pafla
;ers, et partira fur le quinzieme jour da mois
Juillet courant. Ceux qui voudront y palfer on
:harger a /ret s'addrelleront ;i le Capitaine fur le
3ord, ou a M. JE AN DUNKIK, negeciant,
N«">. 10.5, Rue de I'eau (Water-Street) de Sud.
a Philadelphie, le premier de Juillet, 1793."
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
BY MATHEW-CAREY
No. 118, Markct-Strset,
EmbeH'.rtied wi;h a MAP of South Am-rici
N» Vli Of a NEW SYSTEM OF MODERN
GEOGRAPHY.
OR., A GEOGRAPHICAL, HISTORICAL;
AND COMMERCIAL GRAMMAR J
And present S'ate of the Several
KINGDOMS OF THE WORLD.
CONTAIN I NG
I. The figure?, motions, and distances of the pla
rets, according to the Newtonian system anc
the Jateft observations.
11. A genera! view of the earth cortfsdered as 2
planet j with several ufeful geographical defi
nitions and problems.
111. The grand di-vifion of the globe into land;
and :r, continents and islands.
IV. The situation and extent or empires, king
doms, states, provinces, and colonies.
V. Their climates, air, foil, vegetable producti
ons, metals, minerals, natural curiofu.es, seas,
rivers, bays, capes, promontories, and lakes.
VI. The hires and oeafts peculiar to each country.
VII. Observations on the changes that have beer
any where obfeived upon the lace of nature
since the most early periods of history.
VIII. The history and origin of naiiofts ; then
form 3 of government, religion, laws, revenue*,
taxes, naval and military strength.
iX. The genius, manners, cuitoms, and habit,
of the peoNe.
X. Their language, learning, ar:s, sciences, ma
nufa&ures, and commerce.
XI. The chief cities, ftrutfures, ruin«, and ar
tificial curiosities.
Xli. The longitude, latitude, bearings, and xi.f
principal places frrtm Philadelphia
TO WHICH ARE A'Dntl'.*
f. A Geographical Ir.Jcx, with the na-mes, anc
places alphabetically arranged.
11. A Tatle of the Coins of all Nations, and thei
value in Engliflr Money.
111. A Chronological Table of remarkable events
from the Creation to the pie-sent Trine,
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, T.fq.
The Agronomical Part by James Fcr,:ufon,t'.E.S
To ivbicb bai't been added*
The late Difcovei ie* of Dr. Hcrl'chel, and othe
eminent Astronomers.
Tie firji AmtrUan edition, corrifltd, improved
and greatly enlarged.
The pnblifher of this work, thankful for the pat
ronage with which he has been honored, fob
mics the present number to the infueftion o
his feliow-citizens, and lays before them
The terms of publication .
I. This geography shall be published in forty
-eight weekly numbers, each curtaining twen
ty-four pages of letter press.
ll* In the course of the publication will be de
lrvered the following maps .*
i» The world. 2. Europe. 3. Sweden, Den
mark, Norway, and Finland. 4. Rullxj. 5
Scotland. 6. England and Wales. 7. Ireland.
S. France. 9. Seven United Provinces. 10. Au
tfrian and French Netherlands. 11. Germany,
12. Switzerland. 13. Poland. 14. Spain anc
Portugal. 15. Italy. 16. 1 utkev in Europe.
17. Asia. 18. China. 19. HmdoiUn. 23. Af
rica. 21. North Ameiica. 22. Britilh Ame
rica. 23. Welt'-Indies. 24. South America
25. Planisphere of the earth. *26. Countrie:
round the north pole. *27- .Discoveries mad,
by Captains Cooke and Gierke. *28. New.
Hampfnire. MalTachufctts. *30. Con-
Pedicut. *31. Rhode-Ifiand. *32. Vermont
n33- New-York. *34- New-Jeifey. *35
*eimfylvania and Delaware. *j6. Maryland
*37* Virginia. *38. N«rth Carolina. *39
South-Carolina. *40. Georgia. *41. The
Sphere. *42- The Copermcan system.
N. B. AH the maps marked v.ith stars 3r<
added to this edition, exclulive of those in the
last- London edition.
That no disappointment may arise from fob
fcribers expecting what the pubiilher neither pro
ntifes nor rs able to perform, he gives this carlj
& explicit notice, that to some of the States it wil,
beknpoiTible for him t« give maps fully accu«aete,
no late furvcys having betn n.ade ; and it is hard.
lv neceiTarv to observe, that it fail, not within
his plan to go to the expense of lurveys. But 1 r
every inOance, he will avail liin.' r c!f of the hfj:
materials extant : and such correlations and addi
tions as his utmost exertions can piocure, fhaii
be made.
111. The geography of the United States Is un
dertaken by gentlemen of literary abilities, who
have engaged to give a more fu-ii and fatufa&o-
ry icCouflt of "it than S'nv ever publiftrd. J*
will extend to 250 or although i<%
the BritWh edition, and eve 1 a in that at l 792,
it makes on)) about 30.
IV. Sh<Vu\d the work exceed forty-right num
bers, tfrefurplua will be delivered gratifc to the
fub'cribers.
V. The pfsce of each number will be a quarter
dollar, to be paid on delivery.
VI. Such fubfcribrrs.as 00 not choose to receive
the woik in numbers, are to pay three dullaia
at the time of fubferibing.
The printer, anxious to render this work ar
perfect as the nature of it will allow, mod ear
ntftly rrqutft', that such gentlemen. throughout
the United States, as have it in their power, wilt
turmfn him with do-cumcnts for correcting th*
pa ft eriois in the geography of Amcrica, and tor
furnithing a more -complete fjflcm of geography
than has yet appeared.
The title pa 6 e, lift of names, with
the account of the Newtonian system, &C« <S:c»
will be given in tne 47th and 48th Irom«er«.
N. B. The fubferibers, and the public in ge
neral are requeued to consider the following very
material circumstance—The London quarto edi
tion is fold here, for fifteen dollars, although it
contains only 25 maps and plares, and of the geo
graphy ot the United States, as has been observed
above, only about 30 f>ages-*-where«l, Cs; )'s
edition will c'oatain 4.2 maps and plates, and have
two hundred pages of letter press more. And it
need not be observed, that the Seventeen maps to
be added, are of more impoitance to America
by far, than the 25 London ones. Theoblerva
tion'wlll apply with equal force to the letter press
additions.
The maps will be published in such order of
fuccelEon as they are engraved, and directions will
be printed for the pieper manner ol placing them
by the bookbinder.
May 22.
To the PUBL I C "
VTOTWITHSTANDING all the endeavore
of the ariflocratic party to prevent the citi
zens of the United States fmm encouraging the
Work-ef!tiikd MAN UNDECEIVED, which I
proposed to print by fobfeription on the 25th Feb,
la ft, 1 Vrel myfel'i happy ift infar.ning all true
Republicans, that the lame wnl be put without
delay to the press, as the fabicription has been
firccefsfully tilled. Such unexpftfed suCCess I
»?. - e to the favor of Several zealous friends, who
jiftmguiilied rhemfetves in the undertaking.
1 think it »nnecefTa»y to make any remarks at
TefpeCting the work, as ehe world will
I'j jn be enabled to pronounce ienter.ee upon it.
I hope therefore, that thole whole circun.ltance-s
ms eafv, an J who hold the generous principle of
Jtmocracy, will feel sorry for their indiflerence
./.th regard to fubferibing, in as rr».uch as the
A'ork Will confound the enemies of Republi
:anifrn. 1 (hall, however, reserve every remark
Ltpon the fubjedt for the Appendix to the woik.
I have the ple«fure to exprels my public thank*
:j those benevolent American Printer through
i v; United States, who had the kindness to inlerC
1 rsy former advertisement in their newlpapcrs*
and -1 request them to give the present a place,
.it ti ri n* them to feno me ?ne of their* papers ccn
ing it, that I may become acqo»H»ccd with
rnv friend*, and tranffilit «liem * copy or the said
\vork as 3 tok-eirormy gra.ituJe.
Those Printers only should take notice of thie
: ?quelt who are true republicans, and ftsendsts
mankind, a character acquired only in the
iChool of democracy.
' J AMES PH. PVCIIA,
Late sworn interpreter of the bpanifli language,
June 12, 1793.
IHave claims to about (wo hundred aril
fifty thouland acres ot LAND in the state of
Kctrtuckev, in different parts of that country,
Imv.e of.which 1 know to be equal to any ; all
y( which 1 am inclined to dispose of, either by
mure (ale, or by admitting one, or two partr.eri*
o whom the agency on the whole will be cctfu
:D tied. . ,
One fowth of the Will be required in
isnd, either in cafe, merchandise, or luch afl-ts
u m a> be converted to active use, the refidoe
nay be apportioned in convenient instalments.
The pwrehafers to give security, on the lantf*
jr otberwajs.as fints them.
Knowing that there is a prejudice against the
cities 01' land in that state, which is more general
han j.u'f*, lam willing to stipulate in the con
:iadt, that a discount, or dedu&ioa, {h'all be
Tude, where any land may be loft, by reason of a
JefecHve title. .
Any perf.m inclining to such a pur«hafe, ts re
queued to write to me by port, in answer to
ahona, oiore particular information will be given*
tl E NRT BANKS.
Rrchmond ■ March 20, 179 V * aw
TO '1 HE PUBLIC.
WHERE AS an attachment at the.luit of Sam
uel fmlay and Nathaniel Imlay, e»?cut.>n
of the testament and la-ft will of feter Jm!^y, 'ic *
has iffucd out of the Supreme C..ut cf
Judicature nf rhe state <,»'Sew-Jerfe) , tho_
■ ands of Garret VeoriwW, late of the count »»
M ddlefr*, and state afr.reUiJ, n to*
(irft Tuesday in Sirptemher, feifenteen hunnrtJ
and ninety tv/o— —t-Jonce is hereby given to i. -
said Gariet Voorheis, that unlef» he arpeat alii
file fprcial bail to the said ailinn, jadjioene
will be entered against him, by a:
lands so attached told for the fati.foilinn .CS-cl
of his creditors *' (hall appear to he juftlv e :>t.v •
to »ny demand thereon, and (hall apply trr tlu .
purpsfe, according to the form of .he dilute in
luch cale made and provided.
By order ot iiie CptirT,
April 17. Jaw. ry •
PRINTED 8/
C HIL I>S AND SWAIN E,
AT THEIK OFFICE NO. 2'iQ, H tGH-ST* SS«.i
X»!AR FIKTH-STRFFT,
rKltADtiifHlAi