By P. FRENE AU: (at No. 209, Market Street) Published Wednesdays and Saturdays, [Three Dollars per annum.-}
Numb. 93 of Vol. ll.] WEDNESDAY, September 18, 1793.
From the Csorgia Gazette.
A CALL to ARMS agamjl the INDI
ANS
ROUSE, countrymen of Georgia, rouje 1
AMISUNDKRSTAInDING with die
red people of the weft must soon i\\ ake
you all to arms. A thousand tribes are
leagued againftyou. Mutual intelligence
has made iheir counfelsthe fame, from the
fhotes of lake Erie to the Altamaha, a
semicircle of more than acoo miles.
The sachems have agreed on hostilities.
The priefta have performed the rites ol
divination. The conjurer declares the o
niens to be good. The chieftains and war
riors have gone through their feafts and
ablution?, ceremonies devised by the dru
ids of Indians to secure them fuccefi and
a happy return from the towns of their
enemies. They have whetted the knife
and sharpened up the hatchet ot death.
They have brightened their firelocks,
moulded their ball, painted their brow and
their body for war. They are now writh
ing and foaming with the impatience of
furies to take the path, to bend their
march towards the frontiers of your coun
try, to devote to the tomahauk your chil
<lred and wive 3, to drag you as captives to
die by the torture of flames. They only
wait the appearance of th£ appointed
tnoon, and then they raise the whoop of
war, the yeil of devils, to be communicat
ed from wigwam, to wigwam, from town
to town, from mountain to mountain,
from the Mufkoghe, in the Couth, round all
the cicele of Indians to the Miami in the
north, to be re-echoed from the Miami
back to the Mufkoghe again.
Rouse, countrymen, roufej Make ready
to oppose force to force, and art to art.
Federal America has her Warriors tdo;
she can point to many of the vety soldiers,
officers, art I generals, who bore up tinder
a fev?n years' war* against all the powers
of Britain—Britain, great among the nati
ons—Britain, whofc arms had tfiumphed a
few years before in every quarter ef the
globe. Cannot America command some
of the troops of Saratoga still ? some of the
captors of CdrnWallis —Conwallis, who
has since become the conquerer of India ?
fomeofrhe choice spirits who fought at
Bennington and Monmouth, at German
town and Guilfofd, at Eutaw and King's
mountain, and the hardy florm of Savan
nah ? Many of thdfe brave men are still liv
ing, the boast of their friends and defence
ot their cdlintry still! kind heaven has held
them in its holy keeping;
Step into the halls where the foris Of
Cincinnatus meet; there feaft your eye:
on the ghllant American officers who de
voted their ease, their health, their for
tunes, and blood, to their country's cause.
directed your thunder in the hour of bat
tle, and led on your sons to the contest oi
arms. These men have fought in the smoke
of battles, these men are no strangers to the
music of artillery. Call: your eyes on any
group of your feilow citizens, and there
you will recognise the features of some
veteran soldiers who never turned pale at
the flafli of a musket, nor fell into ponvul
fions at the explolion of a cannon. Men
who fought before can fight again, and
they who have commanded can command
again; they are of other metal than to flinch
in the day of danger and alarm ; the post
of honour will be fought again. The mi
litary talents of your countrymen may find
an object now—talents which have lain
dormant and never been displayed since the
war with Britain.
In point of defence your resources are
ample and good ; you can bring into the
field the foot or the horse ; arms and am
munition awaityour call. You are equal
ly fortunate in point of fubliftence ; hea
ven has blefled the labours of the ye3r
through all the interior country; there is
enough for the citizen, enough fcr the
merchant, and a surplus itill for war.
Rouse, countrymen, rouse I \ ou have too
lone placed a confidence in the faith of a
savage. No treaty can bind a roving horde
whether Scythian, Arab,or Indian. A for
mal pacification with them is a farce.
Treaties have no basis among a people
where tribes and individuals are so inde
pendent of each other. Where folates
& council fires afiume only a Recommen
datory, the social compatt binds with a
very feeble tie. And as for the law of na
tions, it can no more bridle a banditti of
Cowetas, or ChickemaHgahs, than a cage
of cobwebs could confine a tygcr.
The faith of an Indian is like that of the
old Canhaginiam. Pu.ieafiJes it Indica
fides, are of equal merit, the one as
much out of credit among the Americans
aj the other among the Romans. A* the
wants of an Indian are fetv. his claims and
rights are few. The rights of society are too
abllraftedfor the reafonirsg habits of ail In
dian ; he has no idea of any but personal
rightt J it is with relucfancc that he sur
renders any.of these; but if, to conflitute
any thing like a body politic, he can be
brought to yield up part of his personal
right to day, he will infallibly resume them
again on the morrow, if to morrow should
prefcnt him \Vith an opportunity or temp
tation for plunder or carnage.
An Indian never meditates peace any
more than an eagle or & lliark ; war is his
profeflion ; he enjoys it with the fame rap
ture that the» hsund enjoys the chace , his
rage for the gldry of arms llarves every
other passion ; the idea 3of a warrior's
rertown are brought into his compofitiau
from the dawn of reason; they £,ro\v as
he grows, and they die not till he dies ; his
favorite dance is martial, and molt of his
longs are on the fubjeft of war.
How many treaties have been negociat
ed with thole cut throats from the Alle
ghaney to the Appalaclie, from the earliest
times to the year 1791, and have those dogs
of war become pacific lkill ? Have they yet
cooled their thirll for blood ? Are they
yet foftened down to humanity and
peacfc ? What fay the dying groans of yo u r
murdered friends, your brethren, your
children? What coakl their gentle spirits
whisper in your ear? What could the
ghosts of the brave Harden and Truemau
tell? Harden and Trueman, both maifa
cred by savage hands while bearing to
their towns the flag of peace. These are
;vents bf recefit date ; but you may call up
the memory of halfacentury palled, call up
the annals of an hundred summers ; point
aut the year in the calendar, if you can,
that has not feeii the foil of America pur
pled With the blood of your citizens, your
countrymen, and friends, their bodies left
to feed the vultures of the valley, and their
banes to grow white in the wilderneis.
What do these fails and these records an
nounce ? Do they witness the good faith
or declare aloud the treachery of Indians ?
Do they crown them as cherubs of peace,
w brand them as furies burning hot from
hell ?
What vifioaaries hare we been—looking
for a millennium of peace with a people
incapable of amity and friendfhip. We
have found them such by a thouland tri
lls, and experienced all th e ten thousand
Jifafters bf broken treaties; anil dill out
latefmen adhere to the wretched policy:
\ minifterof warlocks himfclf up in his ca
jinet,(ketches thepreliminartes of a peace.
:o be ratified with a few drtinken l'coun
irels, in the hame of numerous tribes, a;
oofe and detached from each other as the
jands of marauding Saracens beyond the
ied Sea< of no more exiftetice as a bodj
jolitic than Gulliver's Lillipfitiahs. Peace
nakers meet* talks are interchanged; th{
latchet is buriedj the calumet of friend
"hip goes round the circle, a profufion ol
arefentsis made-— presents paid for out ol
pourpockets, a long detail of boundaries i:
ascertained, and peace is to be ffftf.blilbed
on a firm foundation ; and this last and
t>eft of all treaties is to be held mod sacred
by all parties, "while wood grows and
water runs, or till the rivers have flowed
upwards as long as they have descended."
What is the refultof all this parade? What
ire the important purports of (late answer
ed by a treaty attended with all this fo
lemnityand expense.
On the rising of the treaty, the savage
Balks away from the arbor, where you
fealted his squaw's, his dogs and himfeli
for whole weeks together ; he bears home
the presents with which you load him, he
joins with his countrymen in laughing at
the trick iinpofed upon the white people,
in tying up their hands by a treaty, while
the red people are left as free as ever to
plunder, to scalp, to kill, to torture the
prifonersof war; for a savage will nevrr
conceive himfelf bound by the little scratch
he makes on paper with the feather of a
wild goose.
In the mean lime your country is amuf
ed with the dreams of peace. Confiding in
a treaty which had the fanflion of the high
est authority, she fends out her families and
plants them along the line ; there they re
build the honfes burned by the Indians,
and recruit their flocks and their barns;
but look beyond the mountains, fee the
dark savage in his hut; ina&ion has already
chilled his blood, th: bile has gathered
round his heart, and clouds of gloom hang
heavy on his looks; he broods defigni ot
robbery and Uaiighter again ; he fees your
fettiements unfliieldedfrom histomahauk,
a long line of frontiers naked to his insult,
the inhabitants all lulled in security, intenl
on agriculture and the arts of peace, their
fwcirds beaten into plough-shares and their
baydnetsintoprttning hooks, their firelock:
out of order and laying useless by; wit!
the malic& of a fiend he marks them for hi:
prey, with the velocity of a fire flying ser
pent he darts across the forelt with i
ihoufand warriors more, the moment thej
lee the smoke cf your chiinnies they clrau
the hatchet of death, found the whoop o
war, and all the obligations of the treat;
ji> to the de-oil. '
Such are the blc!Ted eftess of Indiai
treaties! Mere political mummery 1 T1 (
theatre of ministerial speculation ! A fecre
:ary*\>f war might as well have gone into hi
>ffice add there seriously penned down ar
;icles of a treaty between the wild pigeon
uul the eagles on the banks of lake Huror
—as well might he exercise his authority
:o bring about a good understanding be
:ween a lion and a lamb, between a i>vi
iiid a carcajou. Rouse countrymen, rouse
I'orcefrom the savages this power ofde
>redatiou and oloodlhed, new model youi
:erms of treaty altogether, ne»er close an
jther neiociation without adopting the po
[icy of earl Comwallis in his. late wars o!
India: takehoftages of the enemy as the
>nly fccurity they have to advance ; carry
ire and sword into their country, and com
>e4 them to surrender up the sons of theii
achems and chics warriors. Indians are
he fame in the weft that they are in theeaft
he lame at Bangalore as beyond the Ohio.
Ttie Britlfh general knew it was impolfible
:o chain-Tippoo Sultan down to good faitli
iy were promises or belts of wampum ; he
ieuianded fometbing more fubltantial; he
lad the two young princes delivered tip
:o guarantee the treaty agairft, contraven
;ion. Citizens of America, imitate this
age negotiator, have the greatness of
mind to learn a leflon from your ancient e
lemy; he has been {aught by you,he learn
ed to his cost in America '■'■that determined
Republicans are hot to be conquered.''''
Now, my countrymen, let me only hope
hat the effulions ot my zeal on this fubjeft
nay be received in good part by you. I
"eel a glow of enthuliafm for the welfare
and honour of America. I boast of my
Dirth on these plains of freedom, and I
Nave fubferibed to the doctrine, that all
mankind are born in equal liberty, and e
yen savage nations mult be entitled to the
rights of lpan. Bh; your former mode of
:reatirig with a hostile Indian has ever been
unequal and disadvantageous to you :
'here/ore, when your national senate shall
proclaim the war, and the commander in
:hief shall call for the regular troops and
he volunteer corps, be ready for the word
jf command, what ever it may be,whether
to a total extirpation or to drive them
beyond the Miffiflippi and the lakes, or to
nimble thehi down to a treaty, \then the
ieft blood in the nation (hall be given for
i hoftnge, and the noblelt of every tribe
retained in your prisons or yonr guards.
But whatever be the word, whether total
extirpation, banilhment beyond the limits
sf the dates, or hostages agreed to, and
xeaties tried again, as they have no chests
if gold like Montetuma, no treasuries of
■übies like Tippoo Saib, no wealth nor re
"ources td compensate you for the expenc
;s of the war, in either cafe you mult be
.mlemnified by an acceflion of territory,
he vvhole or a part of those charming coun
ries over which they spread. [Aug. 22.]
From ths Virginia Gazette, printea
at Richmond,' Sept. 4.
""pHE game which the enemies to tfie
"• French revolution, who are like wife
notoriously the partizans for monarchy
are now playing, is entitled to pzrticulai
attention: iris the more so. bee; uPe the
poison it contains, is covered, under fpe
ciousand wholesome appears rices,from 1 he
view of those to whom thedofe is intendec
to be adminiltered. A fliort comment
however upon farts, v ill : t is hoped, ex
pose this projefled fcheroe of deception tc
that reproach and censure, it justly merits
from an injured community.
The French minister it appears in prrflT
ing in some inllances, the cause of hii
country and of liberty, upon the Pre
lident of the United States, has expe
rienced some reappointments, anel which
in the fervor of his seal, led him into a de
[Total Numb. igy>]
claration, intimating a belief, that the ge
nefal Sentiment of the people of America,
was more favourable to his country anil to
her cause, than otir executive councils
were : and that he would appeal to this
sentiment. But what were the points in
controverly, or to whom was this declara
tion made ; whether by memorial to the
President, or at a convivial party, or in
tended ever to be carried into effett, lias
not been shewn. The only fa€t vvhich ap
pears is that he r.t some tirrie, and at some
place, made this declaration j and this ha 3
been certified with great pomp and Solem
nity by Mr. Jay, the present chief justice of
the United Stares, asd Mr. King, afenator
for the state ofNew-York.
With reSpect to the supposed disagreement,
Uninformed on that head asweare.it can on
ly be fald with propriety at prefent,that the
public have been too long acquainted with
the patriotism of their chief magiflrate, and
his virtuous exertions in the cause ofliber
ty at home, to fufpe£t that he can be indif
ferent to that interefl Sbroatl, and efpeci
allv in France to whom -,ve oivefo much ;
and on the other hand, that they are too
much attached to the great principles of
the French resolution, and to the merits of
that magnanimous nation struggling in tha
best of causes, to bellow their censure upon
any of its upright advocates, and efpeciallv
her Representative, however zealous they
may be—that the public judgment fhoul.'l
bs suspended upon those great points, until
lifts lliould be correctly ltatetl, upon which
alone it Ihouid be formed ; and that a
different line of conduct v/otild not only
prove the parent of error and injustice, but:
lefl'en them in the eflimatian of the candid
and impartial throughout the world.
But the management, by which this in
cident has bfeen brought before the public,
deserves to be more particularly noticed!
beca-afe its object mult be unfriendly to the
belt intereds of our country.
The operations of the executive muffc
je in some instances, from their nature Se
:ret. A disagreement between that 'de
partment and a foreign minister, whilfl
Lhere was a proSpect of compromise, Ihoulil
be held peculiarly So. It is well known tha:
of that kind, often communicate
themSelves to the nations to which th- par
ties respectively belong, and Sometime*
from the flighted cUnSes, dilSolve the molt
Solid political connections. To adjult
them in private is always the ihtereft ot all
parties, uho wish to cultivate harmony
and whilst the tranSa£>ion is private, where
there has been error, proper explanations'
may be made. But when the controversy
is submitted to the public view, this ami
cable adjustment is either rendered im
practicable, or becomes more difficult.
When therefore it is conlidered that the
belt interests of both countries required
that these Subjects fliould have beendiScufl
ed in Secret, it must be obvious that Some
objea unfriendly to both dictated the pub
lication. Nor can there be much difficulty,
when characters and circumstances arc at
tended to, in discovering what that obieft
is. It is well known tnat there cxifts a
mong us a powerful faflion, who are op
poled to the greit principles of the Frenci?
revolution, and who are likewise much
more attached to the copflitution of Kni
land, than to that of their own country.
To introduce this latter forrfi Of aovern
ment here, upon the ruin of enr own is
believed to be the ruling motive of th!-,
party in all its councils ; and that the dis
solution of our connection with France
would greatly forward that end, must he
too obvious to admit of any controversy.
Xhe principles of the American and French 1
governments are the Same ; they both ex~
elude the idea of hereditary diminutions, and
reft on the fame balls of equality. A?,
friends and allies the two Rations might
mutually Support each other, and there
by at the Same time give dignity tf»
he republican cauSe. But if they IhouUl
)e thrown apart and in opposition, the
:onti ary effect would be produced ; the
ivay would be paved for a more intimate'
:onFieclion with England, and at the ex
)ence of our ally, whereby all the obnoxi
ous political of that country might
:>e introduced among us.
As it cannot redound to the honour nor
the intereftof America.So neither can it be
ihe wish of hercitizensto diftblve theircon
ne£lion with France. To force an honed
and independent people to adopt a couiSe
in direct opposition to the molt Solemn,
rroral, and political obligations, must at
w ays require Some (kill and addreSs. The
ftratagtm fallen oy in the present infl«n'crffor the accomplifiiment of that object, de
monltraies equally a propensity to political
intrigue, and a readiness to facritice the
molt (acred and delicate considerations to
its attainment. The President of the Urti
ted States, for his past services, has long
and deservedly Ituod high in the confidence
and affections «f his fellow citizens ; an<]
he has likewise always heretofore been
rmderltood to harmonize fully with his
Comitrymen in their fympatlietic attach
ment to the French nation struggling in
the cause of Liberty and Republican go
vernment. To expose to view any jnif
imderftanding iri the discharge of theij
rcfpeCtive duties between him and the
French minister, was an expedient wel,
calculated to produce the desired effect :
lior can any situation be conceived more
likely to prove injurious to tlie charaCtei
of that illustrious patriot, or distressing tt
his fellow citizens, than one which would
compel them to decide between their at
tachment to him, and their obligations tt
France, as well as their veneration for tlit
great principles of liberty, upon which hei
revolution is founded.
That the true and genuine objeCi of thi
publication has been to separate us fron
France, and to bring about a more intimate
connsftion with Britain, in violation of
public faith, and in contempt of other the
molt sacred obligations among men, anc
that the popularity of the President, iipoi
the idea of the ftippofed variance, has beer
ciught at as a precious means for its ac
complifhnient, are truths too obvious tc
efcap<* the attention of the inoft fuperfic a
observer.—Why otherwise submit the l'ub
jeCt to the public view? Were the authors oi
the publication called on, for that purpose
by any obligations of official duty ? Anc
that a train has been laid, diilemiuatirtg the
variance and extending it to the communitj
at large, is with equal certainty to be in
ferred. How account upon the fame sub
jeCt, ajid at the fame time, for the prompl
and correspondent publication at Richmont
and Burlington, if they were wot dictated
or atlealt suggested. from the fame source.
Are these citizens, o are any of them, more
zealous than the reft of their countrymen,
for the public honor and national prospe
rity ? Have tbey exhibited, however re
fpcCtable their merits, and which Jl an:
willing in some inltances to acknowledge,
in the course of <.he late revolution, or al
any subsequent period, more fijnal proof;
of a disinterested patriotism, and undevi
ating attachment to the equal rights ol
mankind, that they fliould thus step for
ward, as an example to their fellow citi
zens, to foment this unhappy division ?
Might we not rather have expected, in
"harmony with the general sentiment, thai
they would have kept aloof, and as impar
tial but affliCVed speCtators, deplored the
occasion which gave birth to it! Might we
not at least have expected from them fame
declaration expressive of their approbation
of the principles of the French revolution,
and of gratitude for the services rendered
Us by that illustrious nation ?
That some misapprehension may have
dictated the proceedings at Richmond, I
am willing to allow ; but they have gone
f jrward und«r a respeCtable patronage,and
if they have any objeCl in view, are intend
ed to announce abroad and influence at
home, the sentiment of this country. If
theft the good people ofthis common wealth
do not harmonize with the fentiraents con
tained in those proceedings, let them
<le-:lare it to the world themselves ! let
them make known ill unequivocal terms,
that they are firm and decided friends ta
the great principles of the French revolu
tion ; that they arc still grateful for the
important services rendered us by that
magnanimous nation, and consider their
eftablilhment of a republican government,
as an additional bond of union between
the two countries ; and whatever may be
the consequences, that they will never vi
olate their faith pledged to an ally of ex
alted merit, but on the contrary will spurn
with abhorrence every effort,however art
fully covered, that maybe made to produce
that pernicious effect. That they revere
the government under which they live,
and will at all times support those who till
its different departments in the discharge
of their conflitutional duties* Declara
tions like these, being founded on the im
mutable bads of justice and of truth, will
redound to their credit abroad, and mull
promote their national prosperity !
AGRICOLA.
[Extra Els from late French papcrs.~\
I. IN erery deinocratidal government
the laws o»ght to destroy, and prevent too
great an inequality of condition among the
citizens. Otherwise, an equality of con
flitutional rights will be a mere chimera :
the poor man will fell himfelf to the rich,
will become his slave, and deyoted to all
his views. Laws, favourable to universal
equality, ought nevertheless to be introduc
ed without commotion, or violence, and
without offending against that respeCt due
to the firft of all social rights, propriety.
If poflible, it ought to be done with an eye
to the happinefi; as well as the virtue of the
citizens. An equal division of landed pro
perty to every citizen, which ha* been pro
posed by some, is a project the molt fatal
that could be mentioned ; it would be un
just, useless, and sanguinary; tf'jujJ, be
cause to carry it into efteft. many persons
luuft be deprived of their lawful property ;
ujelcfs, betaufe the very day alter the <li
vilion took place idleness, luxury and ex
travagance would take poil'efiion of thou
sands ; an immediate sale of property
would ensue, and consequently inequality
of wealth again take place; fangtunary,
because it is certain the citizens would get
into quarrels, and cut each others throats
before the partition was half finilhed. Add
to this, that all ind-uftry would cease, and
in a little time thousands would perilh oi
famine and misery.—There are other mea
(ures to be taken to answer the proposed
end, more practicable, and much less dan
gerous : not to mention the (haring estates
among children equally, on which opinions
are muah divided, I shall bring into view
two of the leading measures to be adopted.
The firft is, To abolijli all JuceeJji-Ji to
property in an; iniirett line of dejient.
Whatever may be bequeathed to the Re
public, and whatever the bequelts may be,
let them be diftribnted once a year, ai a
gift, to young people in every diftritt, -who
(hall have the belt reputation for industry
ind honelty. Such a measure will tend to
prevent the re-uniting of great estates, and
their accumulation into great mafl'es of
wealth. In making a divilion of ellates,
it will contribute tothe relief of poor fa
milies, and will inspire the youth of both
>xes with a generous emulation to out do
sach other iu the duties of labour and
jenevolence. There is certainly no'hing
unjust in such a procedure : A man, during
tiis life, can make ul'e of his property as
tie pleases. It is nothing more than right.
But, that his rights (while living) and Will,
[hould have any force after his death ; that
\ man, who exists 110 longer, (hould have
the disposal of the good things of this
world, is what the social compact never
'ranted, although, through the prejudices
if mankind, it has hitherto been per>mt,ed.
The rights and the duties of man are radi
ally derived from the necelfities of the
pecies. A man then, after liis decease,
laving no longer any wants, cannot pofE
sly have any rights. His whole propers)
KUurally becomes the common .propert)
>f all men ; and in consequence of th'n
latural right, the Republic becomes the
leir.
It is true, from this principle it results,
hat children themselves cannot heir tfit
loffeflions of their predeceffbrs, but by con
ent of the state. But there is no cause tc
ipprehend a ftrifl: application of this prin
ciple, or any abuse of it, as theoretically
aid down. The Republic of France will
>n!y so far make use of it, as to secure a
roice in regulating paternal bequests, anti
>reventing the ralh injultice of capricious
Tien to their offspring; but it is by no
neans her intention to take away from
jarents the right of conveying their pro
>ert» to their children. The intimate re
f.tion that exilb between a foil and his fa
:her, and the neceiiity of obligating the pa
rents to inereafe their estates, and of in
iucing children to aflift their parents, not
:o mention the great inconveniences that
would result in a great empire, from an
equal divilion of property, render it cer
tain that '-onr laws will never eltablilh or
permit any such equality, eveß fliould they
sboitih'nll claim of fuccellion to eltates in a
:©llateral i(iitdireft) line.
Thefecond meal tire, that would greatly
rontribute to a political equality would be,
:o exempt every citizen from all taxation
whatever, of the indispensable necelfaries
~>f life, and to draw a nett revenue from
he remainder only. Both humanity and
equity forbid that import laws (hould ope
-ate to the ruin or indigence of any citizen,
Dy claiming a (hare of what is absolutely
leceflary to hisexiftence, while they leave
Jthers free to riot in luxury and extrava
gance. Would it not be glaring injultice
:o tax a citizen for poffeflirg an article of
iropetty without which he would perilh ot
lunger or cold? The facrifice of his iiulif
lenfable property, or of his life, is the duty
}f no citizen, unless solely when the public
afety is at (take. In any other cafe, his
irft right is, To live, and his firft duty,
:o take care of himfelf. At Athens, taxa
tion was chiefly imposed on fuperfluities,
[till less on the ufeful things, and not r:
ill upon the indispensable neceflariesoflife.
At Rome, over and above citizens destitute
of property, who paid no taxes, the Re
public also exempted the poor holders of
["mall properties, and did not require a tax
in money. The reafen was, it being
thought that they paid their (hare of fer
cice tothe Republic in begetting and bring
ng up, by dint of their labour, robust citi
zens, to be the strength and defenders of
:he community. If once the meai'ures here
hinted at were adopted, if the mod com
mon necell'aries of life were freed from
tax, and all taxes whatever collefled from
the rich and voluptuous, from fuperfluities
and the artificial necelfaries of life ; we
(hould then fee taxation the cause of little
or 110 evil, and vartly Sefs of inequality
among citizens than at present.
11. Of bigots, and bigotry in patriotism.
'' There are bigots in politics and patri
otism as well as in religion, and they are
commonly known by the fame tokens.
That is, little exterior ceremonies are sub
ftituted for the genuine virtues of the heart,
and the true adoration of the foal. Words
are ptrt in theplacr of deeds; with an ap
parent severity in judging of others, and a
fpicit of jealousy ami intolerance. These
are the usual leading marks of both del"
criptions of hypocrites. Our political bi
gots are particularly studious to wear a
(month, black foretop (expreflive of the
real character of their fouls); with an ana
thema ready to be fulminated against ever)
one who has a powdered head, or win
carries a tri-coloured cockade in his hat
instead of a white one. These are morta
tins. The word Republican is imprefTee
upon the cockades of our revolutionar;
hypocrites, on the buttons of their coat*
in the very lids of their fnuff-boxes ! Ir
fiiort (with them) republicanifH) is ever)
thing, and its principles are every where
prevalent, except in their own hearts,
Like devotees in general, they are anxiou:
lor occasions of calumniating; and theii
whole lives are palfed in denunciations,
In their own fe&ions, and departments
they are constantly seen at the bar of ac
cusation. They infiijuate themselves intc
popular societies, they get the -watch-word,
and depart. Denunciations are the imme
diiite consequence 1 Religious hypocrite:
have always some patron faint whom thej
invoke much oftener than their God. Po
litical hypocrites, have also evermorefotnt
patron, Vvhom they prefer to Liberty. On<
worfliips Robespierre ; another thinks Ala
rat the very pink of patriotism ; a third'ima
gines Mer-Un the greatert political head
piece that ever existed ; a fourth ground:
his political creed on the opinions of Chcbot
and 'o on. Among all these fettarians, how
ever, intolerance is a leading trait. VVhoevei
does not fee with the fame eyes as they do
111 every instance ; whoever does not wor
(hip their idols, is the constant object of theii
abuse—and, indeed, may reckon himfel:
happy if their rancour ends in abuje only
They entertain a more rooted hatred foi
patriots who do not embrace their opinion:
in totoy than for'the very avowed enemie'
of the revolution; much like some vaii
conceited devotees in religion, who have i
more cordial hatred for tliofe they call
heretics, than foratheifts themselves. De
mophilus (fad a friend tome, one
is a very gool patriot. He never goes out
of his quarter, but to a meeting of the
Jacobins. He is never absent from the
Convention-hall : he is a n«ted friend ol
the people, for he is never weary of talk-
: he is also a friend of equality, for
there is not a poor man in the (late that he
does not call his brother. What a flaming
patriot ! But let us enquire—DuesDemo-
philus pay his contributions to the public ?
—Does he even lift a finger for the reliel
of the poor man he calls his brother ?—
No, no.—Trust me, gentlemen, this man
political hypocrite."
111. A work has been lately publiflied
in Paris, entitled, "The crimes of the
Popes of Rome, from St. Peter down to
Pius the 6th (the present Pope) with nine
splendid engravings—by Citizen La Vi
compterie, Parisian delegate to the Con
vention—octavo, 508 pages—Edited from
the prefsof M. Prudhomme."—" It would
be ungrateful (fays a Paris paper) not to
acknowledge the Cervices M. Prudhomme
has rendered the French revolution. Thii
new work, on the crimes of the Popes
that he has published, will have a prodigi
ous effect, in overturning the whole fabrii
of religious superstition, under whatevei
name it may lurk. Let men, labourinj
under prejudices of education, read anc
examine this inestimable work, and the)
will soon learn to fix a proper value upot:
a parcel of ridiculous idols, who have fc
long been the cause of (bedding deluges ol
human blood, and filling the world witli
calamity.
Paris, July 2.
For thi National Gazettk.
Staunton, (Virginia) Sept. -2. 1705.
CONSIDERING it the duty of U,e peo
ple of this diftri£t, to declare their
principles and opinions on fubjefts which
at present agitate the public mind, a re
fpe&able humber having met for that pur
pose—Alexander St. Clair in the chair ;
A. Stuart proposed, as the fenfr of the
present meeting,the following Resolutions,
which after a full difcuflion, xvere Unani
mously agreed to—
1. Resolved, that all attempts to Cub vert
the federal government,or violate its prin
ciples, ought to be firmly and vigorously
refilled.
2. Resolved, that it is the interest of A
merica to cultivate peace and harmony
with all the world, b;. just and honourable
means, and that our executive authority
ought to be supported i« the exercise of its
conttitutional power, for enforcing the
laws and securing to us this great objett.
3. Resolved, that the parriotifm, wif
doin, and tried virtue of the President of
the U.States entitle him to the highest confi
dence as well as lalling gratitude of his
country, to whose present peace, liberrj
and happiness he has fu greatly contri
buted.
4. Resolved, that we entertain the high
est refpefl which gratitude can inspire, for
the generous and important fervises of the
French nation, during the American revo*
lution K and that we feel the ftrongelt at
tachments to those principles which have
given birth io a finnlar one in that coun
try.
5. Resolved, that any attempts to dis
unite France and America, ought to be rt -
probated as dangerous to Repblicanifm in
both councries, and paving ihe way to a
connection with monarchical govern
ments.
6. Resolved, finally, that we are attach
ed to our own fcovermnent —that we are
attached to the Preiident—that we are at
tached to peace,To long as it can be main
tained upon honorable terms— that we are
attached to the French nation, and the
principles of their revolution—that we
hate monarchy, and more intimate con
nexions with it, as the worst of evils—
and that we mod ardently defile that the
imprudence and indiscretion of a servant
ofFrance on the one hand, oran ill-judged
interference of our ovvu citizens (not in
the executive department) on the other,
may not difnnite two nations, who have
embraced the lame principles of freedom,
and who we believe eiteem each other
must ardently.
Alexander St. Clair, Chairmen.
PHILADELPHIA.
JVednesday, September 18.
The fliip Manchester, from Liverpool,
bound to this port, run on ihui e on Tuef
da? night the nth inft. at Turtle Gut in
let, about 6 miles N. E. of Cape May. She
was going at the l ate of 8 knots an hour
when Ihe (truck. It is expefled Ihe wilj
be got off. Part of her cargo is arrived
here.
The Comniiflioners who set out from
Philadelphia the last of April, to hold a
treaty, for the purpose of'making peace
with the Western Indians, have returned
without success. Timothy Pickering, Efcj.
arrived in this cit} lad Friday, and Mr.
Randolph has since reached Germantown.
They came back, by the way of Genefee,
Albany and New-York. General Lincoln
:00k another route, and on account of the
icknefs prevalent in this city, will proba
bly return direQly to his home in Maffa
:hufett3.
We understand that the hoflili Indians
efufed to make peace, unless the United
states would remove all our fettlcrs (a
nountingto several thoufand-s) from over
:h« Ohio, and make that river the bounda
ry between Uem. This was obviously in-
Klmifljble.
The Governor of New-York has, by
iroclamation, ordered all vessels coming
roci Philadelphia to that port, or any other
>ort in the Hate, to perferma quarantine ;
o continue till such time as legally dis
charged therefrom. No vessel is to ap
proach nearer than within e miles of the
city of New-York, till vilited by the in-
I'peaing phylicians and health officers of
the port.
We hear that the citizens of Cheftertown
(Maryland) have entered into resolutions
tor preventing the flages from this city
palling through, 011 their way to Baltimore.
The flages to New-York by way of Bur
lington and Bordenton have been flopped
some time. Indeed, we hear any person
travelling on those roads from Philadel
phia, though in ever so found a state of
health, is shunned like a pestilence, and
viewed with the fame eye ot horror, as if
lie was bc-aiing with him all ths evils of
Pandora's box, to distress and desolate
mankind.
Amidst the present diftrefles here, we
remark with pleasure. that a more healthy
season than the present has never been
known in New-York.
Extract of letter from Lett don dated July
1793, to a friend here.
"In such eiteem is Charles Fox held
for his patriotic services, that the molt
generous JukJcription ever made for any
man took place on last week at the Lon
don tavern, in order to relieve him in his
present embarrafleti stale 0/ finances, ami
at the fame time the greatefl delicacy nftd
that he might not be hurt in his feelii >s
011 the occasion. Some fublcrjbed 3CC.I"
and none less than 1001. by which his dt.ns
were honourably difcharged,and an annui
ty per annum purchased for him
and a present made to him of 20,0C01. to
begin the world anew. A clear proof that
no nation is so generous in rewarding true
merit and virtue as the Britilh nation."
ExtraCt of a letter from Baltimore, Sept. 12.
"One of the marks by which the clo
ven hoof of toryism and Britilh influence
may be known, is the almost unanimous
praotice'of addreflers in favor of neutrality,
t© include a volley of abuse against the citi
zen minifler of France. The defignof many
of these people is to raise an indignation in
the public mind against the reprefentame
of our ally, who, doubtless, expefled the
American government the fame view
ofthe 22d. article of the treaty that he
and the present French government have,
winch might have ltd him into a line of
conduct, lor which he has been so much
• allied. Some people pietuid that amighty favour it granted the French in
felling their prizes in our ports, which is ai
the fame time extended to the felling ol
the prizes of all their enemies. I only
further observe that I know it is under-
Hood by manyAoiericans, to be the obvious
meaning of the 22d article ot the tieatv
with France, that they Ihould enjoy a right
apparently contained therein ; and especi
ally, as the cause 'which the French are
engaged ill, is to the iirtereft of mankind in
general (though many cauiKit and many
-will not fee it) and as America herfelf is
bow reaping the advantages of a well elta
blilhed government, obtained with the aj
fljtanee receivedfvom the French, are rea
sons fnfficient for countenancing of them
jnore than has been done. But however
men now differ in their conllruaions ol
that article, the time may come, when
many will with that they had viewed it in
a different light, and when, by their pre
sent political manoeuvring, they may cm
off the only resource that could bave been
obtained. National judgments are on cer
tain nccafions much Complained of; but
•we ought to remember that national in
gratitude may not improbably be the cause.
The French privateer Ihip Le Marfeil
lois, of 22 guns, is arrived at Bolton from
a cruise. She was fitted out at Havre dc
Grace, and during a (lay of fix weeks a -
bout the western islands e:iptured eight
Englith prizes, fouie of them very rich.
All the valuable ones are arrived in ports ol
the United States. The captain of one ol
The prizes (ship Neptune) in a letter datec
IBofton, Sept. Sth, gives the following ae
count of his capture. _
" I take the firft opportunity of inform
ing you, that on Sunday the lit inft. in lac.
42 long. 64. 43. I was taken by the Frencl
privateer Marseilles, after being chafec
from nine in the morning till 10 o clock a !
night, during the chafc the privateer firet
her bow guus, of 18 pounders. Whei
night came on I loft light of tlie privateer
I then fixed a light on a pork barrel; drop
ped it overboard, fired a swivel dnd alter
ed my course four points; th« privateei
fleered for the light, and all hands 01
board of her were prepared for action, bu
on finding the deception, I was again espi
ed by the assistance of night glalles whicl
bad been taken out of Britifli vefiels whicl
the Marfeillts had captured.—Chafed, ta
ken and am now a prisoner here."
From Savannah (Georgia) Augufiii.
" Would to God the Creek nation, wit!
manyot'their good friends here.weredriver
over the Miflifippi ; our diftrefl'ed country
■would then stand some chance of increaf
ing her population, and of becoming «
match for her numerous interna] erfemies,
We would be glad to know of the Secreta
ry of War, » here, when, and how Geor
gia offended at the commencement of th<
present Creek war—what have her citizen:
done, that instead of being supported, they
Ihould be deferted—inltead of encou
raged, abused, for barely making knowt
the grievances they laboured under —why
is insult after insult borne with, ant
our frontier settler? almolt annuall)
obliged to abandon their dwellings ant
their crops. Is it because Georgia is situ
ated at a greater diflance than other slate;
from the feat of government, and her peo
pie an inferior Order of citizens is il
an apprehension, on the part of the mini
sters.that if theCreek3 [hould be effe£tuall>
humbled, our fertile lands and genial cli
mate will too rapidly increase the repre
sentation for their interests. Some atteil
to doubt of the President's power to march
an army into the Indian country. But
how did he venture to march the army
under general Harmar, and afterwards
that under general, St. Clair, agr»inft the
North wctleVn tribes? Was there a formal
declaration of war by Congress—neither
the Secretary of Wax, or any other man,
could produce it. Congrcfs was not fitting
when the expeditions were undertaken,
and the members generally obtained the
information through the channel of the
newspapers. There were no qualms of
conscience then, to create doubt, altho
treaties with thole tribes, as solemnly en
tered into as that with the Creeks, were
then exilting, and their depredations not
one jot worse, iffo bad.—Those who feoff
at the horrors of Indian warfare, fhcruld
go to our frontiers, and view the miferiei
of its settlers, ; find out.the unhappy pri
soners from Cumberland, as well as Geor
gia, and fee them at their flavifli drudgery;
they fliould enquire into the amount ol
property plundered from the widow and
the orphan. Let them call at the
las, and behold the once amiable, though
humble Miss M'Cormicks, Haves to Indian
insolence and brutality : Let them afl< one
of the difeonfolate viaims how she has
been dealt with, and mark well the deep
fob and heart-felt anguish of a once chaste
maiden. The whites of those towns, if
they have even Indian candour, will con
fers that fair, the unfortunate mourner
ws prostituted, publicly and openly prof
ttituted, to all who would abuse her, in de
l ilion of Georgians and their government.
JVlethinks I hear the unhappy girl exclaim,
•' O my country, on your account what do
I fn.Ter, unnoticed and deserted by you !
Did I acknowledge some other power, I
Ihould be demanded, and 110 doubt deli
versd from the brutal embraces of these
horrid savages."—("The ether of these un
fortunate young laiiies works in the field
with the negroes. They were taken from
theAltamahaw in the year i 787 er 1788.
The facts here mentioned areindifputable.]
Some will alk, who is the author of this
war ?—we answer, The Secretary of War.
Why has uot the treaty of New-York been,
carried into execution, and the prisoners
as well as property given up ? Nearly one
hundred negroes from Liberty county
ilone are at this moment in the Creek na
tion, the greaLer part of them coming un
;ier that treaty—a treaty, which although
ivorfe than the BritiQi ravages in its con
sequences to Georgia, might have been
omewhat mended by fulfilment: of what
nfe a new treaty, and a new peace can be
•intil the old treaty is completely executed,
jy a delivery of prisoners and property, we
ire at a loss to account for, unlets it be to
rncourage them to new aftsof violence, to
.vlpe oft' the Old and the nevV treaty toge
:her, and bring on a third—when the fame
rallies will produce the faille eftefts to the
;nd of time.
Court rhetbrick and cdiirt Writers will
idtj in future, lull the citizens of Georgia
nto security, or persuade them to remain
it their frontier dwellings and patiently
.vait the next maflacre. Federal quacks
tdead powerfully in favour of federal drugs,
ind would fain administer lethargic po
:10ns to tleflroy that independent spirit
which is the foul of every free governmem
—I mean that of boldly telling minilters oi
their blunders, of calling public servant;
to account* and of making known th-.
jrieVances of the people at all times, thro
the medium of the press. Their quackifli
labourj will be in vain, however : the
light of infalibility is palt—the fun of en
quiry has arisen—the citizens are on then
guard—experience has taught them thai
their prompt anJ unanimous adoption ol
the federal Cenftitution has been of 11c
particular benefit to their interests, ant
that too little dependence can be placed 01
the heads of departments to trult to the
dictates of inferior officers. Ihe very or
der for one hundred horse, and one hun
dred foot, confirms it."
No less then twenty five Arfierlcan vef
els, (hips, brigs, fchdoners, and sloops, ar<
sdvertifed in the New-York papers, as re
:ently carried into Jamaica, by the Bri
tish privateers of that island, who,
u the present circumstances of things dc
3V no means seem inclined to "neutrality''
svith respect to the United States.
The following inhuman circumflancc
; ecently took place on board the (hip Tho-
Tiasj arrived lately at Charleston from
'Jape Francois, that was boarded on hei
riaflage by one captain Francis Tucker, ol
tiie privateer sloop Susannah, of New
?rdvidence.
"Among the slaves belonging to the un
fortunate paifengers who were flying from
hehaVoc of dittrefles and maflacre, with
:he small vestige of former opulence and
jrofperity, was a family negro nurse. who
ittended upon, and was at the time the
riioma* was boarded, suckling an infant
jabe, the child of a lady of refpeaabihty
>n board. These nefarious and inhuman
jarbarians, devoid of every feeling >vhich
ran humanize the heart, tore ttie nurse
toni the infant, and notvtfithftaHding the
application of the mother, who, upon
nended knees & with gushing tears entreated
hem to delict, unrelentingly perlifted, car
-ied oft the nurse, and left the infant with
out the power of ftibftltence, who pined a
tvay and expirefl in a few days after, sot
the want of the nourifhiuent of the breast,
mil was in the presence of the mothei
juried in the ocean !
These circumftanees of cruelty and the
frequent piracies of the Bahama privateer;
an the veflels of the United States, serve tc
revive the recollection of what was thf
charafler of the inliabitants of Providence
I'ome many years ago, when rapine, plun
der and murder were their purfult, ant
the means by which they obtained theii
livelihood.—Beware of the vengeance ol
iieaven, and of the resentment of republi
:ans ! If America should be provoked in
to a war, or to undertake to chastise yot
fur your inftilts, these tranfgi etlions wil
is ot be forgotten, and the punilhment yot
ileferve will not be withheld."
There are certain J-wine fettled fieai
Philadelphia (fays a correspondent) whi
deny citizens in good health the fatisffli
on of crofling the water,for fear of transmit
ting into their deluate nojlrih the infeitior
prevalent in some parts of this city. It i*
certain their fears are groundless, as it h
well known that/W/7/e are a species of ani
mals that the contagion rarely or never
alfefts 1
Pitt/burgh, Sep. 7. Agreeable toarefolve
which heretofore appeared in the Pitti
burgh Gazette, No. 360, the citizens oi
the several in f ayette count)
met at their usual places of township meet
ings, and appointed two members tor each
to attend a general committee at Union
town, for the pnrpofe of taking into con
lideration sundry acts pafi'ed during the late
feilion of the General Assembly of this
State. The said members having met ac
cording to appointment 011 the 15th day
of Auy,uft, 1793, and having formed theni
felves into a cojnniittce, found, upon mu
tual deliberation, that they as freemen, a
citizens of a free government, were ne
ceflarily constrained to enter into the fol
lowing resolutions.
1. Resolved, That the a£t angmenting
the wages, and increaling the lalaries ol
the officers of the legillaiive and judiciary
departments of this state, operating before
its existence, is ex pojl faCio, and conse
quently uilconllitutional.
2. Resolved, That the said a£t, in entit
ling the officers of the judiciary departmeni
to additional wages, and salaries, is oppref
live ; there appearing to have been no pe
tition, or general complaint from the fait
officers, previous to the enacting it.
3. Resolved, That the militia la\V o
this state, is in some instances opprefiive
especially in allowing such exorbitant sala
ries to such a number of brigade infpeflors
4. Resolved, That as the law establish
ing a loan-office has had no good eife£fs ii
this the principles being such tha
no applications have been made, it is there
fore oppreflive ; and if such has been it:
eifefts throughout the state, ought to b<
revised or repealed, that the additional ex
pellee of the next year's loan may noi
accrue.
5. Resolved. That it be recommendet
to the freemen throughout the state o;
Pennsylvania, to mauifelt their abhorrenct
to tyranny and oppression, by w ithhoidin;
ths-ir fitffrages from those men who have f(
recently violated the constitution, and in ;
public capacity tranfgrefled the laws o
economy.
6. Resolved, That a petition in refpei
to these laws, be drawn up and prefentei
by the freemen of this county to a ftttun
General Assembly, at their Hrft session.
7. Resolved, That the sentiments ant
resolves of this committee, be printed ii
the Pittsburgh Gazette.
BRITISH PIRACY.
" The schooner Success, commanded b;
Ofrnond Thorndike, of and belonging t«
Beverly, homeward bound from St. Do
mingo, with a valuable cargo of coffee
cocoa, cotton, aud calh, was on the 28tl
ofjulylaft taken by the privateer Fann;
and Polly, of New-Providence, a part o
his crew taken out, the schooner mann'i
from the privateer and ordered for New
Providence, but 011 her pailage down, 01
the lit day of Align ft, was run on (hore ant
intirely loft, both vessel and cargo—not
withstanding captain Thortldike's remon
strances to the captain of the privateer
and of his having no property t>n boart
but American, and his having been on the
fame palfage boarded by five privateer;
before, who had very particularly feruti
nized his papers—all of which capt. Torri
dike urged as reasons why he had no rigln
to detain him,yet this sea plunderer mann'i
and dilpatched the Vessel without examin
ing, or even looking at capt. Thorndike':
papers."
The weather having now become cool
with a strong wind at N. W. for jo hour:
past, it is hoped the mortality at preftßi
prevailing in this city will soon be abated.
An equiiioxial florin, however, with £
plentiful fall of rain, is still wished for, a:
supposed to have a salutary eifett in check
ing epidemical disorders.
DIED on Wednesday last, citizen DU
t'ONT, the French Couful for Philadelphi
i, a victim to the malignant fever now
prevailing in this city* On Friday morn
ng thefrigate La Precieufe, and the India
Slip La Ville de l'Orient began at sunrise,
and continued til) the fun war. dow n,to fire
juns every five minutes in honour of this
:rue republican.& man of universal estima
tion. The American and French vcfleh
in port wore their colours half mast high.
Died also, Judge Atlee, Vincent Pelofi.—
Mr. Anthony, and several other citizens,
since our iait.
Mr. Freneau,
T7ARIOUS opinions having been publifli
* ed refpeffing the SUABILITY of a
STATE, and the public mind being en
gaged on the fubjeft, it may not be impro
per to publish the following extract from
i work, w hith was confldered by the friend:
jf the Goftftitutlon as a candid Cohflruflior
jf its several parts, at the time it was a
lopted V-y the people.
A Confifient Federalifl.
" IT Is inherent in the nature of fove
eignty, not to be amenable to the suit ol
in individual without its eonfent; this is the
general sense and the genera! practice oi
nankind, and the exemption, as one of tht
it*tributes of sovereignty, is how efijoycii
jy the government of every State in the
Union. Unlcfs, therefore, there is a fur -
ender of this immunity in the plan of tfie
Convention, it will remain with the States
md the danger intimated must be merel)
deal. The circumstances which are ne
eflary to produce an alienation of State
sovereignty, were difcufied in conlidering
the article of taxation, and need not be
repeated here. A recurrence to the prin
ciples then eftiibliflied will fatisfy 11s, that
there is no colour to preteail that the state
governments, would by the adoption of that
plan be diverted of the privilege of paying
their own debts in their own way, free from
every constraint but that which flows from
the obligations of good faith. The con
uuets UiweeiJ a a»u«n spri individuals at c
only binding on the conscience of the fove*
reign, and have no pretensions to a com
pulsive force ; they confer no right of ac»
tion independent of the sovereign will.
To what purpose would it be to authorise
suits against states, for the debts they owl ?
liow could recoveries be enforced ? it is
evident that it could Hot be done without
waging war against the contriving state ;
snd to al'cribe to the federal courts, by
mere implication, and in deftruftion of a
pre-existing right of the state governments,
a power which would involve such a con
ference, would be altogether forced and
unwarrantable."
Federalist, Vol. 2.
page 318.
[from a Correspondent."]
DIALOGUE.
Why don't you lliine, quoth the Moon ?
Sun. I do Ihine, but that dirty pianet the
?arth obfeures my rays, for very lately,
when I was mediating peace in the skies,
ind under the notice of every one, great
and ("mall, I;arth and mercury dug up an
aid lie to wound my feelings, and dispa
rage my services ; the feleit company of
Circe's swine their alfociates, who met at
ie£tar fliops to regale their beastly appe
:itesand compose ballads, during the wor
ship of the gods, hawked the lie round all
the planets and stars, and left poor I {houljl
hazard unknown evils, and dare to con
tradi£l so rile an impofttii e, by a relation of
circumilances, Mercury has paragraphed
Hie in the gazette of the Ikies, as a traitor
to the general interest, and has entered a•
caveat prefaced with a mofl impudent
scrap of defamation, that none may believe
me. Moon. What old lie have they re
vived? Sun. A lie that carries an appear
ance of so great profligacy that I am a
fliamed indeed, to gainsay it verballv, or
even to mention it. Why, earth affirms
that you swore your life, I know not how
often, against mt. Motn. Alas I poor
clod of clay ! earth has doile fcvery thing
to make us rue that ever we were made !
Hut why (liould it cloud or impede your
brightness, whilst I am by to prove before
uld Saturn, or elfewere, that you alone are
the friend, and the only friend, beiides the
gdds, before whom I ever uttered any of
my grief, areven rehearsed any complaint,
or complaints of any fort. Mercury, you
well know is a noted liar, and although he
:aveats in the gazette of the Ikies, no one
ivho knows the author will hearken to lus
words. Exeunt.
ELEGY
On the heath of a Blacksmith.
WITH the nerves of a Sampson this son
of the fledge,
By the ativil his livelihood got;
With the (kill of old Vulcan could tem
per an edge ;
And ftruck—w,hile his iron was hot.
By forging he liv'd. yet never was tried,
Or condemn'd by the laws of the land ; '
But still it is certain, and can't be denied,
Ha often \vas Burnt iii the hand.
With the fonsof St. Crifpih no kindred
he claim'd,
Wiih the I ast he had nothing to do ;
He handled no awl, and yet in his time
Vlade many an excellent j' t oe.
He blew up no coals of sedition, but ftilj
His bellows was always in blafl ;
And I will acknowledge (deny it who
will) •
That one and but ewe, he poflefs'd.
No after was he, or coincern'd witlj the
rtage,
No audience toaive him appear'd ;
Yet oft in his (hop (like a crowd in a rage) 1
The voice of a h'Jfing was heard.
Th6'y? eeling of axes was part of his cares,
[n thieving he never was found ;
And tho' he was c6f.ftantly beating oil
bars,
No veilel he e'er ran aground.
Alas and alack ! and what more can I fay
Of Vulcan's unfortunate son —
The priest and the foKton have bore him
away,
And the fotind t>f his hammer is done 1
Sept. 14.
EPIGRAM,
On reading certain lines, under the fignn
ture of C in J. Fenno's Gazette; ad~
drell'ed to JoSAth AfJ Pindar.
TELL me, good mader C *•*■*, tell me
pray,
Pid'ft ever hear an Irifli jack-ajs bray,
And mixing with his own melodious note
The tuneful brogue of an Hibernian throat?
Such is the ajs of right Hibernian breed
Who fays, w'e throw away paper—whirl
we read.*
* Gentle reader judge for thvfelf,
"P- in spite of all your puffers fay
"■ Y our Odes/or the reading do not tom
pejifate,
"The paper, ink and time are thrown
away tjc-
See Feniiw'a Gazette, of Adg: 24th, 1793.
Bkay on good JACKs-> Continuation of Egalite's Interrogatory, &c
- not make a journey lately
into the Departments of L'Orne and Loi
ret, and particularly to Orleans ? What
was the motive of that journey?—A. I
never was at the distance of ten leagues
from Paris since the commencement of the
Convention ; I miffed very few of the fit
tings, never two together, never slept out
of Paris but at an estate of my own, at
the distance of three leagues, more than
one night, and that very fcldom.
You, then, sent some ernifTaries into
these departments ?—A. None.
Give us some motive for the doubt
ful cliarafter you bear ?— A. 1 did not
think my character doubtful among Pa
triots.
Hayt you ever acted acci vding to
the didlates of your own mind, or from
tiie counsel of any other person ?—A. I
have adted as my conscience and judgment
have guided mc.
You have told vis, that you have a
decided aversion for the throne. Why
<lid you pot clear yourfelf of the inculpa
tions that have been made againll you ?—
A. Relying on the purity of my con
science, on my intentions, and my con
duit ; persuaded that they would make
me triumph over calumny, I ever despised
them.
Did you burn the letters you receiv.
cd ot your sons when you received them ?
—A. Sometimes I did ; but not always.
What has been your conduit with
respect to your son since you heard thst
he had betrayed the nation ?—A. At the
moment when I began to fufpeft his con
duit, I was put under arrest. I ever hop
ed that he had been forced to act as he
did, and I had no means of doing any
thing.
Did you not fuffer your agents tc
flatter you with the idea of royalty or
didtatorfhip ?—A. All those who knew
ine, knew also my way of thinking, and
that I should have elteemed it an insult.
Q. Why are you so ill with the persons
of your family who call ihemfelves Patri
ots ?—A. I know no person of my family
who call themselves patriots, with whom
I am ill.
Since you have been confined in the
Fort de la Garde, have you not endeavour
ed to communicate with some persons of
this city ?—A. No, citizen ; with none
•but the workmen I had occalion for.
Here ended the interrogatoiy.
Certified at Paris, the 17th of June,
1 793» second year of the Re
public, one and indivisible.
(Signed) Charles Voided.
Interrogatory of Jlphanfe Leodgard Egalite,
ci-devant Count de Beaujolois, third for,
of P. Egalite.
name, citizen ?—A. Alphonfc
Leodgard Egalite.
How old are you ?—A. I am thir
teen years old.
Where were you born ?—A. At
Paris,
you live there?—A. Yes, citiz£n.
you not have preferred being
a Prince under the old government?—A.
No, certainly not.
Did your papa never tell you that
he should be King ?—A. Never.
Did he speak favourably to you of
the Revolution ?—A. Yes, always.
He tdd you then to love Liberty
and Equality ?—A. Yes, Citizen.
Did any aristocrat frequent your fa
ther's house ?—No, citizen.
Did not the fervantsand all the per
sons in your house talk to you much in fa
vour of ariftocracy?—A. None ever did.
Q. Did your masters ever talk to you
of Liberty and Equality ?—No; they
often gave me good news.
So that you never heard talk of the
nectlfuy of making a King ?—No, never.
Q__ Should you prefer the title of Prince
to that of Citizen ?—A. X prefer that of
Citizen.
Here ended the interrogatory.
Certified the 17th of June, *793,
the second year, &c.
Interrogatory of Louis Francois Joseph de
Bourbon, ci-devant Conti, at the criminal
tribunal at MarfeilUs.
Q. Your name, citizen ? A. Louis Fran
cois Joseph de Bourbon.
Your quality? A. A ci-devant
Conti,
Your age ? A. About 59 years.
Where was you born ? A. At Pails.
Where did you reside ? A. Often
m Paris, or in the country, having fixed
my principal residence at my eilate of la
Lande, fix leagues from Paris.
What part did you take 111 the re
solution of 1789? A. I left Paris the
1 ,>th of July 1789, not having a place tu
elt my head, without being menaced by
illaflination or poison ; as soon as I could
find that my life and liberty were in fafety,
I returned voluntarily, and with eagernefi
:o my country, on the second of Aptil,
1790, after having previously sent my oath,
which I confirmed and signed again at my
FtAion on the day following. Since my
return to I'ranee, I have meddled wjti
lothing, have led a very retired life, goinjj
bmetimes to places of public amusement
and having remained at my country seal
it Landau, with a very few servants, with
Jut sleeping out of it, since the nth ol
fuly, 1792, till the Bth of April, 1793
the day when I was arretted and sent tc
:he Abbey prison at Paris, from when«e 1
A'as taken out the next night, to the fori
if Notre Dame de la Garde, at Marfeil
es, where I am imprisoned, without be
ng permitted to fee any one without wit
lefTes, although the decree of the Conven
:ion, article 3, which orders the interro
jation of the family of the Bourbons, in
:erdi&s all communication, only with tilt
ndividuals of that family. I gave a htm
ired and fifty thousand livres as a patri
Dtic donation : I gave in 1792, for th<
svar, feventy-lix horses, forty two of whicf
ivere equipped : I made presents to tin
volunteers, who set out from all the placei
in the vicinity of my residence ] havi
paid cxafily all my taxes : I have giver
money to my feftion for the poor, fevera
times, and lately for the recruiting service
I took the oath of the 15th of Augull
1792, to maintain liberty and equality
2nd to die in iheir defence; I claim mj
liberty since I am guilty of nothing, finci
I have not defeived to lose it, and finkinj
under infirmities, fuffer too much in mi
prison.
Q-_ Did the ci-devant princes, your re
ations, who have emigrated, never writi
o you, to engage you to emigrate, an<
3ear arms againit your country ? A. j
lever heard from them since my return t<
Franee on the 2d of April, 1790, and the]
vould have solicited me in vain ; I Ihouk
lever have consented.
Were you never present at thofi
jrivate meetings, then known by the Au
Irian committee, where the counter-revo
ution was preparing ? A. Never.
Did you never conceive the projefl
sf favouring the flight of the ci-devani
ting? A. Never; I had no knowledgf
>1 his departure, till the day following th<
nighc of his flight, when the nationa
guards came to take me in my house anc
condua 'me to the Section. I ever took
particular care since my return to France
to avoid ail opportunities of speaking ir
private to the ci-devant king, and alwav:
answered him aloud, whenever he addrefled
himfelf to me, in ordtr to remove from me
suspicions I did not deserve.
For what reason did the nationa
guards on the day following the flight o
the ci-devant king, come to your house tc
condua you to your fettion ? A. I believ.
they took it upon themfelvcs ; they made
known no order to me, and after having
appeared at my feflion, I was sent bacfc
«ry quietly, and have remained free eve:
"nice.
Q. Had you no intimation of the pro
efts of Louis Capet of ordering the troopi
o fire on the people 011 the 20th of Au
just ? A. I was only apprised of it bj
he journals at my ellate at la Lande,
A'here I had been 1 ith of July,
preceding.
Q What was your opinion concerning
:he abolition of royalty, and the eftablifh
nent of the Republic one and indivisible ;
A. The most entire submission to the de
crees of the National Convention.
Did you endeavour, by intrigues, to
prevent the judgment of Louis Capet > I
repeat that I never meddled with any
thing.
Q. Why did you interfere with no
thing j was it from a sentiment of hatred
for the revolution, or through indifference:
A. It was not from a sentiment of hatred,
for the revolution, but because being born
without any other ambition than that ol
living peaceably in my own house (which
my condua at all times proved, even before
the revolution) I never did, nor do, now
form any other with than to end my days
peaceably In the bosom of my cauntry, in
the midst of my fellow-citizens, and to
deferv*, by my conduct, their fuffrage and
elleem.
It appears to me, that a (late so per
fectly null, does not accord with the fuff
rage and elleem of which you are desirous.
Did you never hear and tolerate counter
revolutionary expreltions from your do
mestics ? A. So far from tolerating them,
I ever declared, that I would immediately
discharge.those who fnould dare to make
use of them.
If you ware so cautious in fpcaking
to a ci-d«vant king, wny did you seek fucli
frequent opportunities of speaking to him:
A. I did not seek opportunities of fpeak
to him, I only answered him.
Why did you visit him so often 1
A. I was fometimc3 a fortnight without
visiting him (which happened very often]
and being his relation, I thought it incum
bent oil me to pay my duty to him.
Here ended the interrogatory, whicli
was signed L. F. I. Bourbon, ci-devanl
Conti.—Maillet, President, &c.
DEPARTMENT OF STATE:
T HEREBY certify that I have receivec
official communication of a Decree oi
■hf National Convention of France, where
of the following is a translation.—
Decree of the National Convention ol
the 23d of May, which declares that the
vefTels of the United States are not com
prehended in the purvieu of the decree oi
the 9th of May.
The National Convention after hav
ing heard the report of it's committee
■if public fafety, wishing to maintait
The union eliablilhed between the Frencl
Republic and the United States of A
meiica, decrees that the veflels of tin
United States are not comprehended ir
let dijpofitions] the purvieu of the decree
Jt the 9th of May, conformably to the
1 6th article of the treaty executed the 151!
:>f February, 1778.
A true copy. Le BRUN.
Given under my hand this 9th day o:
September, 1793.
5 C Th : JEFFERSON.
TO THE PUBLIC
AS an attachment at the suit of Sam
ueJ Imiay and Nathaniel Imlay, executor
>f the testament and last will of Peter Imlay, de
eased, has ifTued out of the Supreme Court o
[udiceture of the.ilate of New-Jersey, against th<
anas of Garret Voorheis, late of the cuunty o
and state aforefaid, returnable to th<
irft luefday in September, seventeen hundrtt
ind ninety-two Notice is hereby given to thi
aid Garret Voorfceis, that unless he appear a»<
lie f pecia 1 bail to the said a&ion, judgmen
vill be entered against him, by default, and th.
ands so attached fold for the fatiijfa&ion of fuel
his creditors as ihall appear to be justly entitle,
o any demand thereon, and (hall apply for tha
>urpole, according to the form of the statute ii
uch cafe made and provided*
By order of the Court,
April 17. jaw. jy HOWELL, Clk.
WARRANTED
Boulting-Cloths iff Mill-Jones,
For sale at No, 437 NorthSecon<l-ftreet, bi
OLIVER EVANS,
W/'HO hath vieweo the Cloths and Stonei in 1
great many of the bed mills in different part
>f America, and procured samples of the cloth?
with an account how they proved, and colleftet
the opinion and judgment of many of the mof
;*perienced millers refpefling the quality of cloth:
ani stone for the different purposes : therefore, il
they do apt prove good, and suitable for the pur
poses for which he fells them, they will be re
ceived again, others delivered in their (lead, anc
the co<!s of carriage paid. Drafts of the bed ant
Pimpled plans for boulting, and bed and f.mpltd
ronftruftions of mills now in use, will be Ihewec
:o the purchasers, if required.
August 17. 11. w. t. f.
Seat of War.
FOR s A £
AtM. Carey's Store-, 118, Mar
ket-street.
A SHEET MAP
Of the French, Austrian and Dutch Ne
therlands,
In which the progreft of the present War
may be traced.
Price thrre eighths of a Dollar.
And a MA P of the
Three-Northern Diftrifts of France, di
vided into Departments—Price
one fourth of a Dollar.
Maps of the United States :
ANY public-spirited gentlemen, pofieffed witk
materials for correcting and improving the
maps of the feyeral states, will lay M. Care>
under very particular obligations, by communi
cating them. He is in immediate want of some
for Ncw-Jerfey and Delaware} of which states,
he is now preparing maps.
Guthrie's Geography:
THE subscription for this work will be conti
nued open, at the present rate of twelve dollars
tiil the firft day of November next j after which
it will be raised Co fourteca dollars.
Auguil 10.
PRICE CURRENT.
Dollars. Cents*
(100 Cents make i dollar.)
A.HES, pot per ton J2 od
pearl ditto 134 cl tr> 14011
Baeon, flitches per lb Bto qc
——Ihoulders do 7 c
Beef, Boston per barrel Bet
t Country c!o 7 tl
Beer, American in bottles
including bottles per doz. id 74c
ditto per barrel 6d
Bees wax per lb 2 6 c 2 8c
Brandy, Coniac per gal 90c 110 c
common do g oc to 85c
Butter in kegs per lb J2C j^c
Cheese, Country per lfc» 8c 13c
Englilh I9C
Chocolate , jß c
Coal per bufliel aoc 22c
Codfilh per cwt 3d <2c
Coffee per lb , 4 c ,g c
Copperas per ewt id 67c
Cordage, American per cwt 7d 67c 9d
Cotton per lb 26c 40c
Flax per lb 11c 12c
Flaxfeed per bull). 90c to 1 dol.
Flour Tuperfine per barrel s d. 75c
common s d. JCC
Bur-middlings, belt 4d. 50
jMeal Indian per bbl. 2d 53c
Rye, do 2( \ oc .
Gin, Holland per cafe 4 d 33c
per gallon 80c 90c
Ginseng 20C 24c
Gunpowder, Fine glazed per qr a 4d 3c
Grain, Barley per btuliel id 3c
Belt shelled per bufliel 2d 67c
Buckwheat per bttlhel
Indian corn <--. G
Jersey, do 6oc
Oats 3JC
Kye 6oc
Wheat 107 c to 127
Hams per lb 9c tone
Hemp, imported per ton t2 od i46d6 7 c
—"-American per lb' 4c 5c
Hides, raw perlb 9c tone
Hops 2Se
Honey per gall, 6oc
Ineligo, Carolina perlb id id 10c
—Trench id aoc id 6-e
Iron, Bar per ton g 4C j
Callings per cwt 3d 50c
Nail-rods per toa nod 32c
?' s 2 4d
OllCCt f*72H IT
Irons, fad per ten
Lard hogs perlb J g C 10c
Leather, foal perlb jy c 2oe
Myrtle wax perlb I2C .
Molasses pergallon 49 c to s oc
Muitard, flour, in bot. per doz. id 2 oc
——second quality, per doz. 8 7C
Nails, 8d iod 12d and 2 <xl per lb. 10c
Oil, Linseed per gallon 66c
Olive g, c
—P er Cif e S d joe
Pepper per lb ,g e
Pimento f d
Pitch per bbl ,d 7 jc
Porter per calk jd 3*o
London per doz jd 60c
Atner. br»t. iuchl. id 80c
Pork, Burlington, per bbl ,6d 50c
Lower county i 4 d Ac
Carolina
R' c e per cwt
Rum. Antigua pergal ,j
Barbadoes ° g, c
Country, N. E. 62C
, , Jamaica I(] , 6c
saltpetre per cwt ,jr| rc
Salt, Allum, per bulh
Cadiz 33=
Lisbon 2 5 l
Liverpool ~c
snakeroot perlb 20C^C
snuft, per doz. bot. 4 d 5 d 60c
P er lb 03c 8;c
soap, Brown perlb
White g|!
Starch perlb j- c
sugar, Havannah, white, per lb 17018-
Bl " OWn lOC I2C
Muscovado per cwt i^dicil
Lump per lb
Loal", (ingle refined, 22C
double ditto ~c
Tallow, refined, per lb qc
Tar, New-Jersey 24 gal.per bbl ~t
Carolina, 32 gal ~1 crr
Tea, Hyson perlb 93c id 28c
Bohea <>n " 93 c
36c
Tobacco, James River, best 4d
Wf 01 ' 3d 33=
B 1 , 4d 67c
Rappahannock qd
Coloured .Maryland 5 d 33c 8d
r a , c 2d 40c
W°T" iea ,f 2d 40C
lsa(tern-(hor» ,d 2 d a;c
Carolina, new 211 7c v d
Oid o(\ ■> if
Turpentine per bbl
Wine, Madeira, p. P. I?6d
aw on 1 iod
Tenenffe per gal 6je
Sherr y 90c to id 20c
PRINTED BY
C HILDS and S WAINE.
AT tHiIK 4rncß N0» ac>9, nigh-st**«t #
WEAR FIFTH-STR RE T,
r JiiiADKtraiijtc