™ . <5 P n <h,<l WErtfPSDiYS and Saturdays, [Three Dollars per annum.^
Ry P. FR ZNR aU: (at No. 209, Market Street) Pubhjhei Wbi.^sdat
Numb. 80 of Vol. ll.] SATURDAY, A«guft 3> >793-
Jrroin the Virginia Gazette, oi July 22.j
To the Printers of the Virginia Gazette etna
Richmond an<i Manchester Advertiser.
»
Gentlemen,
a SINCERE confeffiun of error, has at
all times been deemed the ftrortgeft
f wom of philosophic virtue, as well as
of apoltolic faith. Under the pleating im
produced b. this sentiment, I now
acknowledge, how much I have beer# mis
taken and even frightened, with the ac
counts of " instrumentality, • tur
ni bed in several of your late papers. Upon
the tii ft reading, my imagination magnified
and multiplied each d ftinft fyllaj'ff ot in
jtrd-MEN-ta- li-ty into a complete
Hvdra, which I have beer, told wears li
ved monstrous heads, andeach head teemed
bulily igfd in devouring the products oi
tlie whole induftriotis labour 4 ot Amc ica ,
the imagination *vas more alarmed when
conteindaring the complete and entire
fabric of this devourtng rt'ontfer, it seemed
so v:t v ancf compiie ued, rhat all the
ft.. v V :7i A nerica would never be able
v,»\\ Ite.him, and I thought even the
rov? £ lilio 'me of France (which I am
told ci.-ts off but one head at a stroke) i-pon
anv poflibie exteiVho'n ot its mach«n-iy>
would probably be baftied in such a £0111-
p'jx. )2r ition ; Mft my fears and amaze
ment were bevo'.icF meaiur#, when I touncl
that to its or carnal Uru&ure and strength
was added the vxgVfativ'S quality of the
LABARUM or cross of our
blefled S WIOUR, which all good Chr.f
tians te-tainly knrow'vffirMflied for a time,
an e*h mlttefs fund ot piotis tralHck to the
best of the holy fathers of our religion, and
eafilv gratified the. profufe demands of
mauy tl\o jf. «d or opUlenc,devout pilgrims,
who travelled' oir foot, aod foixetimes even
ivith beans in' 11 ir (hoes, from the lour
corners of th.' earth', to the Holy City, tor
the sole purpbfe ef procuring thereiroui
ens magicd chip of gloriotf&falvation.
"'ThisjpntU. e, : E -"o taw ► U
-111 era as a diftiH-bed imagination, and ierves
only to prove the unlimited fcopeoUancy,
when suddenly excited by exaggerated ob
jects of terror ;■ fcr by a collected attention
to the true hift'ory ot IntlrUmeotality, it
feetns to poTefj many good qua
lities, it turns out to be like tne elephant
{Irons, docile, good humoured, faj;acioiis,
grateful to his benefsftors, and terriblepnly
to hii enemies. If I rf'collert right part
ot this Instrumentality remained in Europe
until it had completely discharged ali the
im It aim ?nts ot" the debt then due to
France, (a)
Other parts of it, finding scope for advan
tageous operations in America, boldly tra
versed the Atlantic, and upon its arrival
here regardless of its imperfect organiza
tion, instantly entered rhe service £>f the
nation, zealously applieditjelf to the put ■-
chafe of the public debt (A) and" the whole
or nearly the whole" of the little debt
-which was purchased frofn"Dccenlber 1 790,
to the end of 1702, was done by the lingu
lar exertions of instrumentality. (Vr)
But as there appears to have beeii rio
appt op'jate applicability Ot this fame in-
Orunientaiity to the purchase oi the pub'ic
debt in exclulion of all other governmental
objects, and as it was in fart 110 mote ap
plied to that, than any other object, it is
therefore fairly inferrable, and may be a]-
ferted with eqiial truth, That it was squally
"applicable to the support of the glorious
war waged against the Red People to the
weft.—That it was equally applicable to
the payment of the interest upon the Blejfe.i
public debt, which we have been allured,
will certainly commence the long expected
operation of ploughing and ditching all out
land?, &c. &c. and would never cease un
ti! the whole American wilderness Ihould
-in 4 up into cultivated, productive fields,
hilft the lazy happy farmer will have no
tion;; to do but tw gather and eat the fruits
thereof (d)— That it is equally applicable
to the payment of the hard-earned wages
of our Honorable cotjcript Fathers, whose
minds have been so terribly wrecked in
contriving aU these strange line things for
" we the people," that they have been ren -
dered unable to bestow a moment's < oii!i
deration on themselves or 011 their for
tunes (e) From this reflexion it is clearly
seen, that all these objects have b-en com
pletely effe-ted by the exdutive exei tions oi
Inftrnmemality, and the fame reinnt 1: will
equally apply to every other government. 1
object. All these great achievements,
however, were not effected without foifie
pretty favere wounds which appear f-
have been received abotit the 2d of Ju'y,
171J2, at least equal to the lof> ot all the
limbs of two lyilables ; (/) but thele
wounds and losses, produced 110 iiijtiry
Whatever, tor with the qualifies 6T the
elephant, Inftrurtfental'uy pofleffesthe moll
ii iguiar property ol the polypus, the pow
er ot' reunion or refproutivg ; by this pro
party the wounds were healed, the innant
tliey were inftifled. and Inflrumentality
Hood'ready 011 the (pot with recruited vi
gour, to undertake any other enter prise.
nowever laborious or hazardous. {£) ; 1
would be unpardonable to pats ever •'
lilence another valuable quality lately d'->-
ilayL'd : his steady regard for " pledget
faith,"for at the requ'eft of citizen Oiiniftei
Jenet,we utrderftand this fame InftrUmen
rality is once more rtturned to his old ap'
propriate deftinaliorj,• and is now refofutei]
engaged in propping up the tfeferted cr.ulf
of the Freneh republic. (h) In this reno
vated enrerprife, MAY GOD St-NP HIM
GOOD LUCK ! To which fervent pray
er, every true American will furcly faj
AMEN! !
After this solemn panfe, hear a sage
Admonition : Keep friends with Inflrn
mentality, for I ain told that some raft
fellows, who lately ventured to anger him,
a severe rap over 1 lie knuckles, and
thought themselves well off at that.
It is doubted, whether Inflrumentality
be an artificial coirpulitipn or fabric, or a
natural production It certainly fnrnifhc:
flron» analogies to nature ; inception,
growth, diffemm'atidn, decay, and thepow
,r of re-prodilfUorf, are common to the
whole animal and vegetable kingdoms; the
whole of these properties are attached to
Inftruin'ehtality. The various transforma
tions of Inllrumeniality, and the different
offices performed in each ftatc of exigence,
lee.n *00 tvowfrerfuf to obtain credit wit);
f.mie thick-(villi infidels; but we may here
continue to rrace its analogy with nature,
and li'er laws will easily (olve all f,-emiiu
difficulties ; take the common butterfly for
; it: :.e, v.e ill iuiow, it is lirft an egg,
men ichryjalis, then a craw li'>gcaterpil!cr,
and then a gaudy winged butterfly. Is
there more difference between Inflrumen
tality paying off the French debt under the
of the 4th of Augtift 1:90, or Inftru
me itality pwrchafing the domeflic debt un
der the act of tlie 12th of Augiift ? Or be
tween- Inflrumentality forming a depofil
for discount in the bank, or Instrumenta
lity lent out by the bank to speculators, (c
1 aife the price- of flock ? Or between 111-
Ifrv-mentality lying in the treasury undet
the legal check, or Inltrmhentality lyinj
fntig under the unchecked eontroul ot the
Secretary, (/) than there is betweei
the hiiry reptile catefpiller,' and the air}
flutter'ng butterfly ? This analogy may be
pursued even tothe Phoenix, the rarest am
most beautiful of all b rds. The world wa:
never blessed' with but one I'hoenix at;
time —I never heard of but onel nftrtimeri
tality, pofi'efling the properties ofthepre
fent—the fecundating quality of tlie Phoe
nix exists in its aflies after its complete dif
foltition ; this is presumed to be the cafe
with Inflrumentality. It is at lealt afcer
tairied that when part of it'was lopped of
frotn thfe nlaft m the market, about Jul)
2d, 1792, it was inflantly reunited fron
us own embers, and there is no doubt bill
that the portion of it now in the hands ol
citizen Genet, will be refufcitatcd, if due
care fhotild have been taken to retain it!
ashes in the treaftiry, with tie due portior
of' Promethean heat. It is u hifpered thai
the President has been premature in dif
turblng its nefl in the bank, and thattht
Secretary thought it would do better it
lemain a little longer there, or even tc
take another turii in the market to raifc
the price of flock than be prostituted f
I'econd time in the cause of France, wh'icl
he thinks toft' much ia favour of the peoplt
to be much ifrfavdur of himfe'lf ; it is fait
too that the Secretary is apprehenflve tht
next congress (wh'iGi is known to be crnn
pofed of a set of thick-headed fellows) wil
believe he was really in eainelt when he
reported to the lair (w 110 nnderftood lome
thing of their b:if;nef.) that this inftrnmen
tality grew solely out of tile act of the 1 211
of August, and the President is. really ac
cused of a little fmaltering of Jacobifiifni.
for refuting to jive credit to the assertion.
It would be bad now for America, if the
l'refidert and Secretary II oultl spoil a'.l, by
a little immaterial difference of opinion
about th. piecife origin and fabrication ot
i:;flnunentality ; it might be bad indeed, it
the President ihould infill that the law and
his UlU'iKlion! proved it: fawce sr.d fix. J
its and the Secretary fhotild
infify tiiat his superior official Uifcretion
coulf 1 controul both law and inflru£lii>ns ,
but »e have good reifon to hope this will
not h- the cafe, because we are told by a
inerrv follow. \t ho has lately turn d up his
pipe- calls himfelf J&nathan Pindar, and
tVoir his name r.nd his notions may be ftp
pofed to boa Yankee, that the great folks
man ige these things better to the North ;
that they have got a fccond £oof£ whitl
Ir.ys joldeh eggs, ant! that inttead of the
foil- in hade of the failed boy, who killed
his ioofe to get ast the egjfs at once, the\
are jite content With a discovery b\
a little gentle squeezing, inltead 6t one, t.
get halt a ctoztn a dty;thatthey keep theii
-00'.: in good health and vigour, and thai
hie bids fa'f fo'r the longest lived aniftia
ever ,eard of in America; pofteri'ry wil
profci L.'y think tilt old man < t Prince Ld
waj ,vi ho has lately been dancing througl
aU the papers of the United State?, quite :
buy to tier. (It) .
I whl with the Secretary of the Tfea
iViry w .'id for once lay aftdc his JVlaiiV.nlt
hoi!re. talle modetlyj and publilh the nexi
ent ;i /.e of inlirutnentahty in all tin
nev (p. t ;>ers; then pe-rhaps a body - f '
a licht of it ; and who knows but it inighi
jt .ucured in mi liature fur ths uio o. I' ■■
rait' families, and in that tvent it woulc
jo lound extremely ulcful, especially it
:his part of the country aud at this parti. li
ar time,for We plainly fee that the great &
nighty Judges, (whole decree allous;!.. t<
reverence & nose dare refill) are CteK'i
ri -yd to. make us pajr the Britifli debts.
. on if we fhotild have paid them one.
Mx'er the faith of a law, which we are tolc
> Nothing,now thelites are turned to cor
3oralions, and a magical'fum, which lou'.i
'.■'only two debts at a tiiiie, would a
:uo:mt to the fame thing as if wt were
evholly exonerated f'.oni the payment of
he Brilifh debts.
Under the Secretary's u:odef} Jilence, thf
veipl * in the back woods never hoard oi
:ti* vvyagt Of irfiirumentality from Hol
laud till iaieiy, !m w r a iglt turn it tot;!;
n the market,nobly to ft and by atid-over
ee the purchase of the debt, and it is laic!.
:har until February last, Cotigref» them
selves were not permitted to participate in
:he secret. It would be very gratifying il
the Secretary with his inlirumentality,
uould ast like citizen Blanchard with hi'
balloon and parachute. He jublifhes ir
all the papers w hen he intends t'o exhibit
and all rhe pfioplg may fee, pay or not pay ;
now this is generous, and clever and quite
above Hoard, as a" body may fay. Win
would have believed that mortal mail eoule
leap two miles in the air, and descend un
feared and unhurt ; or that he could have
lent three jolly companions, a dog, a cat
and a squirrel, upon a v'rfit to the moon,
and brought them back in a hail, merr;
mood, full of lunatic intelligence for Mr.
Herfchell; if he had not called the ver\
oyes of man, to gaze and tu admire ! !
What an age of WONDERS aud revo
lution's!! The balance of POV.'LR ii
Europe turned topsyturvy; ftbje£fs turnet
citizens; citizens turned foldiets; peasant:
turned rulers ; palaces turned to prifens ;
kings turned to dull; titles tu/ned ti
Imoke; Dun.curicr turned traitor; his
patriotic army re-turned to the itandard oi
liberty ; the combined de-spots turned dif
niayed ; paper turned to gold; half Old
England turned bankrupt; exchequer of
fices turned to ware-houses. The confti
tutiort of the United States turned upfielc
clown ; (/) proclamations turned to laws ;
law's tiirried to pipe ftcms; state give fo
ments turned to dependent corporations.
The Pr'eliden: of the United States, turning
on one fide despot, on the otherrnpiirij;
Jacobin?. (»«) Debts turned to b'effirtgs ;
figures turned tools ; words turned to anj
meaning you plt-afe. The people tiirnec
inquilitiv;; H.Tniflton turned penitent; In
ltrumentality turned advocate for fiance :
and fmce tlii-slaff tiiri 1 ,1 myfelf tin ned ad
vocate for Inllrtinientality—whirl! citizei
Blanchard, d'-ftiaining tie ryptile fiate ol
mar. upon the earth, mounts into the air,
and takes a luirf au.ongft the GODS 1
TUkU- COAT.
A 0 T K S.
(*) " Ihfli umeiuality, is the term cho
sen by the Secretary of the 1 re a fury, t u
the fittgular e ttert or agency oi
the foreign monies feci etlj' draun to A
merica, in puithafing the public debt,
vvithout expending one fartliin" there of
for that purpose, uiul without carrying one
farthing to the crcelit of the linking fund,
or giving tkf f:ua!j?fj Jsigt rf ifcs n g;
[Total Numb. 184..]
to the coirimlflioners ct that fund, as ap
pears by their report of 25th February,
1793-
(a) The Secretary in fabricating apolo
gies and conjecturing about his own mo
tives for dra\Ving tile borrowed monies
from Holland, makes the following afler
tion f " I fell uiyl'elf the more at liberty
to do it, because it did not interfere with
a complete fulfilment «.f the public engage
ments 5n regard to the foreign debt. It
could be done confidently with a full re
imbtirftfrtrent of all arrears and inllalmenu
which had accrued o'n aicdtmt of that
debt."—Dub it AT UR.
(b) In speaking of the whole balance of
the foreign fund drawn to America, the
fect'etary makes the lollop ing unqualified
aii'ertiun : >• The residue of thefum drawn
lor is applicable to the pitrchafe ot the
public debt." There remains to be re
ceived according to the terms of sale,
632,132 dols. 2 cents. Treafnry Depart
ment, Jan. 3. 1793-"
Here is but one definite object to which
the foreign money was to be txclulively
applied, nothing is said at this time of di
rett motive';, leading mclii'vts, inducing
motives,' collateral motives,
iiiot'Vej, &c. &c —rtor of haViftg one eye
:othiso'j. 1 r Jve to that ot'iift,. a
.hird eye to a tlifever.y L;anil a half a
Jozen other eyes to 1..h 1 doi.-n oihcrdif-'
finitobjeiU,&c.—But the Secretary ba
ring deliberately madr this unhappy ;.i;er
.ll, and refolviiig to ftipport it, in direct
opolilion to the fact, anticipates an obvi~
qi cltibn, and makes the loilowing iii
•eniSus a'nfwer iii'a fubfeqdent report ef
13th Febiuary, 1793 : " enquiry natu
-aily arises here—Were the fjrfonie. which
.fere drawn flow Kurope oh account of
he foreign loans, the inlYi uir.ent of the
jurehafes, to which theft benetnial efrLclti
ire afcrihed ?
•' 1 answer, that these purchases are to
je attributed to the niftrtimeiitaliiy of that
unci—that had it not been for this re
ocrce they could not liavo been made at
he early periods, when nio.O of them were
Dite Ihe com it of the trahfajtliili ivitt
lei'iilly and wi.li more JJropriffy CXJ ....„•
:d in another place."
(c) The Secretary, in reasoning to
hat the foreign fund as the imlrument
>f purchases, made with domestic refour
:es, comes to the folbowing sage conclu
ioil : " But wheil if is cdnfidered, far the
eafons which have been fiatcd, and which"
a ill hereaft'fr be fortr{iedby Others, tei'd
ng. as I conceive, to give tnem fconcliifsve
ore?, that the film in i.'he treasury at the
jeriod iii qucftion, wit, ba'rely what ought
.0 have been there for fife ty, and far due _
upply to current d/m'ands—lt will follow
hat the whole 1 or 'nearly the whole of the
jurchafes which were made previous to'
July 1792, were made by the means or in
trumerttalrty of the foreign funtl."
It Ihoiild be recollected that Hot one far
thing of the foreign mo.tey found its way
:sto tiit Ti'esfury, 'till Augufl 1791, and
that the purchases commenced proioui to
December 1790.
('I) The fundingf;(l em was recon:men
tled upon the Utopian idea, that a pnllic
L'ebt could be mouldt d into an atci (11011 of
valuable capital, and instead ef dra\\iig
.he annual lix per cent, from the bowei 1
jl the earth, it wouid litfil out to betl.e.
>ery lifeand fotil of agriculture and every
jther produ&iye employment.
(s) It is supposed that I'oitie cf the con-
Vri;)t members ol the laU Cofigiefs, who
entered the public fen ice with 1 ery fiei.-
Jer refoiSrc'e's, are now ilinongll the rich
est citizens iii America, at leail they j of
fers . conlider :ble uealtll h.iflily ;y.,.c-: —
these men are continually f<}liiGbingag..':i:[t
all free comments upon governmental'
measures, because th'e commentators ai'-J
less opulent th'm themklves, ind they ilh
to lie fling as they are, or to p'rogic'fsli
len'.ly vith the diftrimirat ng prtiic'iple.
(f ) The Secretary t'iil harpine upon the
neccflhiy agency of the foreign fund, a-d
d fproving a iatt by iriain Ji.rce ot rtafon
inu, to this lingular concltifxn: —
" Had it not been for this atijuKary, ami
that of the loan from the'bank, the ttva
fury would then have b(.cn in an tar,
_iB4,1 f-'o dollars and 62 ccnts. I. therefore
neieflatiiy follows, that for the purchafea
to thai period, tt'Lkh smou::tcd ia specie
to 942.672 dollars and 55 cents, at lealt
1484,169 do'iiars ai d 6a cent, ji.t.f . hi_\e
come from the foreign fund."
fj>) In the aycomp-anymg papers Oi'the
report ol lyth of February the for
reign fund is foind rntirt and ha wholly
'ojtjs? appropriate Vo'tl.t iVr-'chafe of the it ft a ndV>lu, S «Wfcribed
M"11C( oNu-tifn not specially applied
, 11 °J" tu difpolitiofc, 1,338,45. dol
lar»2i cents.
It is here formed, renovated, and rea.lv
t'T ii,y new enterprise. The 4 ,,„c
. ON. o-> < outs, preyiouliy expended arc
'o w re -; i:v !it ,d and re-umtcu to u.c o
l'lgi lal rn | .
{'') It is laid :har the President concei
ving the original deliinatioii ol this foreign
'"'■' d, was the payment of the debt tu
.. ■ mse, has di reeled the payment o|
i.000.000 dollars thereof, to citizen mini
stei Genet, noiwitlifhiiTding the Secreta
ry s al.ertibni to tlie contrary; the fol
lowing arc- extracts from the Secretary's
two lalt reports: '• The direct object ol
• ill l.ie funis drawn for p loriojuiv ,
■was the purchase of the debt. A collate
ral com, deration which operated in the
11 ' L ,t: 'S cs ct drawing, lias affix been nien
iionet,. It Has likewise been dated, th it
til- early pnrchafes. of the debt are tote
alcribed to [lie milrunientality ofthe fund
derived from the loans. Thi, idea lliail
jiovv be explained." 13th Feb. 1792.
" but ii is not obvious how tne fuppofi
tron came to be entertained, that all the
Hion.es drawn h-re from the foreign fund
11 ■' h " rrow «l for the payment oftiir
* bc to r ranee, The prulnrnptic« would
Jeem to have been more natural. :hat they
had been principally, if not wholly intro
r need with a view to pnrchafes of tin
tebt. a 10 coiifeipiently had a more fpecia!
reference to the ast authoring a lo.m foi
that purpole. And the fact is, th.it thi<
•was the defoliation of far thegreateft pro
portion of the funis drawn for—lt has bee:
n ited, that a part had an eye to ihe flip
plies to St. Domingo, and thatanothei
part was introduced with a view to rat
payment oi the foreign officers. '* icy,
feb 1793. y
flie unqualified aflVrtion of 3d of Jan.
ought not to be forgorten.
(') In the report of the 4th of Febrnan
y ,! . l, \- {"'lowing items are iound
'■ i ins balance as noted in the llatemeir
i>> «s coinpoied ol thefoilo*-jug particulars
"1. Caih in :lie fri-afury [per flaunien:
j ""3 444 iiois. 51 cents.
'■ - C.h in the b ink of the U. States
? - s ° ! d'fconnt and depolit o
"* * 1 o, 'is and Baltimore, not v c t paflrt
i" he account of the Ti eafury [per lhtc
' 6o J dols. 8 cents."
1 lieie two lu,:vs 0. a: cmonev, theon<
in. ;ie other ■ut of the T-vafurv, ar,
UK. . eparateil by very thin partitions
O' ••• being in the fame paper iiiltitutious.
1 ili.nion to the irredeemabi.
l 't. of ii ot.
(') "it tile tini of adoption, the confti
tu on Wis iin'iverhxlly deemed a charter o
authorities jca.'oufly granted, all rights an,
auih irities not expref-,|> granted in tha
1 ■ tniment werv ret med to the people oj
to tlie It ite . Piihlius toli] usfo j the firl
Co ig; ess toM us l\' 1.
.. .lend neiits pro posed to the confiitutior
by the firll Coiigr 1 " Article eleventh '
1 he enumeration in the conftitu.ion o
certain rights, (hah! nut be conlli ued t(
>l'ny or d.(parage r,.tilers retained by thi
people—Article twelfth."
The powers nor delegated to the Unitet
States by the conllitution, nor pro'ibiut
iy it to the dates, are reserved to the liati
refpechvely or to thv people—The co-ilt
Union is now the organizer of a complex
canlulidated government,and dillributer o
a 1 authoritiesamonglt ir.scouiticreiit parrs
all aurhorities incident to government
"wnether conitru>Hve or expreiied, may I><
exercised under it, except «»viiy w hen ther<
xii .y be express refervarion. 'in favour o
t'le peop.e or the itates.— file acceptam :
o _ large _ te-; :toj i;;| ceuion*, tne p. incipit
ot colomzatioii, Liie creation ol corporate
iMiUr. .; companies, &c. &c. have growl
[ his ailanniilrative conltroition, the
art.- no w'.;ere given or even h :ted at in tilt
cuMltitution— I he proelaination ot neu
trality fpiints at the fame principle, ant
is exprefkly jafliSed 11 poll that gron d ill ;
lat% logical pol ligation trader the figriatiirt
of Pacifists : this piece merits .1 portion j:
public attention
I iie Secretary of the Treafiiry Iras open
ly advocat .d this new principle of con-
It. uction ia his report upon ni.mufathires.
Jind his printer-, John Pernio, fi.u been ioi
loine ye irs its trumpeter.
im) riie fiim'hine patrioti condemn the
pri.cUmation as being an- iinoonliitutioiia
auauipnoit of authority,.a«Hl ev-;dt:itiu r a
haity co.npiaif ante to the Britilh nation.
Jt does fee,!, to be a piry, that A'merica
mould so havhi.y prolti ate herfelf to that
Inlole.lt, prtfumpiuoiis nation, and pub
licly reader homage and feahy u:iai!:ed
tj'r. Ihe Britilh traders and faaon par
take ol the insolence of their nation ac
cuse the President of Jacobinifni in the daily
violation of his own proclamation (at lealt
the terms os- it, duty, mterelt, imp.irtiality)
111 aeknowltdgiue the French republic in
receiving cm- ,r'«iinilter Genet, in ad
muting the sales of French prizes, -n de
nying the fame privilege to th? 3riti.'h i-i
giving up the llup William to the caotors,
and 1,1 advancing ro citizen Genet, a mil
iron ot magical dollars.
Nt w.thtt mdilig thefe'difquieting appear
nnees to persons ia the exti ernes, it is yer
con.ldently hoped that America'- t ood wili
tpiitinue the Prefideiu's POJLAK. STAR.
For the National Gazette.
Mr. FreneAu,
[ OiSSKf;VKD foine time fince-'feveral
. in one of the riaiiypai>er< on the
'''•bjeotoi turn-,,ikes and canlh! J never
nac »'.'""be of the utility of both, but mult
' 1 ca " le f no good reason why pri
vate property Ihoulu be made a facrihee,
a,III: apjiropnated to the nfe oi the public
■Allile individuals a• e left to lijffer. At
, ! 1 ' h ' nk ' uhe " there is fucli riMit
claimed, to directly contrary to, and in So
rogation of our ConiHtution, t |, e advocate.-
liou.d come forward, and inform the pub
lic rum uhence they derive that ri,lu.
Something on this fubjec>, I recoiled; ha
been f.ud by a writer who % ns hi.i.li I.
' iie to Improvements and in his
lalt number he i informed us that he wou.d
-igain appear in public. I find, however
he has not kept his word, but alto: -the.-
:.e(ei ted the cause ; possibly lie was'con
vinced that mlTcad of julhfying the p,o
-ctdrills of the company, he was only
hurling and weakening their party : oi
remaps lie d.fcovereU that the acts of tlu
.'ompany could not be defended 011 anv
)i nuiple oi equal liberty, and thought it
i ndent to flop Hiort and lay no more.
• he truth is. the more the authors am
promoters of a, bitrai y measures endeavor
- o ji 11 11 -y then- C o .dt.a. the more are theii
Wiley p .:isUi,| open to the view of tht
nibhc, and initead of accompli.bina theii
tyrannical pu-pofe,, they molt gene, alh
"IV"lve them el es in dif; l'„l defeat
Without recurr nr to the firrt principle
nf law, without ming indecent Un«„H.-e
as the •• Friend to I mprovement*' ha
-■lone (he limn Id rather have fubftrtoec
umle.f a 1-r.end to hi own Porfe, ai uior,
0,1 hllent with his rat principles) I tun
t" trte Con.'iituiion itfelr. Although lan
• 't one oi thole Who lay d»«n rules a:
JSMolute, yet I m u.itain the geneial i ui<
u be, that before an individual gives m
his property to the public, the oceaTior
that calls for it Humid be fairly explained
is wed as the law that compels the citizer
:o acquiesce.
The Constitution expressly fays in arti
e9 , feohon to, " Nor (hail any private
-roperty oi any citizen be taken and con
'erred to public life, without the confcn
'f ifi* repi-efentatives, and without fbfl
:ompeiifa!ion being made." Here then if
lie fiipreme law of the laftd, which ex
irelsly forbids the least violation of pro.
]eny without fatisfaaion being made ; ant
rom hence we mayfo.m our opinions 01
o foundation of the Coulhtntion «,
he land, and contradiaory to which tlx
egiJ .tnre can pals no act. I with om
;eiu-rou, Friend t<> Improvement: haJ on \
amhdered thisfeaion of the Conlhthtisn
i> injultice he ought to liave done. \Ver<
an inhabitant of the wikleft cliff of t\u
uleghany mountain, I should ft.il think ii
ncuinbent on me to know fomethin« v.]
■ie conllitut'on and laws of this coun
iy. Pity indeed that he touched tht
anal and turn-pike fubjea at all ; had lie
1 voided it he would have laved himfelftlu
iiort.hcati.yi of a failure. The more tlu
nbjea is inveltigared, the more « c 0 .,!e ar
onvinced of the illegally of the comp.,.
jany s proceedings, and the impolicy of
tivmg such a quantuniof p»«cr to anvfet
j! men vvhatever. * y
But let us enquire what were the pro
•• V""£ sot tlle company ?—and for this 1
V er tne reader to apiecepubliftied fojiie
Ime ago, ligned Edward He/inn, in which
.re fully fee forth their rafii andarbitrari
-teps. A body of men came, in a hofViK
m.-nner, and with force and arms, as Air.
Helton has stated, violently took polleffroi
<t ins property, countenanced by two ot
[he managers, Mr. Jotinfon and Mr. Fiiier
I his I: a truth Which ueuher ha, nor cat
be cuiitroveFied.
As to the canal, the company have beer
io over fliidious of the good of the public
as to otter, 111 one inftanee, for the land
neceilary for the canal, twenty pounds pei
a. re, When the owner pave fort v. This wa
near the falls of Schuylkill ; in'anoMier in
■ tance. near Philadelphia, they offered for
giound ol Mr. Jones, 1001. per acre, when
tnat was the price ten years ago ! Thefc
ire bur a lew instances among many that
ii' ghc be enumerated. But, I am teht.
tne queflion is now depending in the In
pre me com tof Pennfyjvani.i, whether:,
wealthy body of citizens, incorporated, ha.
- right to take the property of a'n iudividua
.11 a forcible iii.irmer, without hisconf.-i.t ;
or, whether the ConlHtution of our coun
try does not guard against every arbitrarv
proceeding oi the kind
1 have jirevioudy mentioned, that there
was 110 occalidn of recurring tothelirlt
principles of law, but that to liatethe Con
ticurion would be fuilicient. I. would
Will, to avoid ail perfmia! rtf.eaions, but
cannot help- laying tbe "Friend to Im
proveinents'' n,i:;iit as well have lugged in
'lie 1 ale of a Tub, or the Quixotic battle
oi the Windmills, as to have fa id what ht
iias.
Had Jht-legillattire pafi'ed a law to in
«orporate- llre-fifh-w omen of ri.ilade !. h.a
and tssc.i lome spacious gardens (that
might be mentioned,) for their better ac
commodation, tiieie would have been iud
as im.eh reason, ufmore, for it. tis for em -
pows 111:3 t.'.'j coii:uauy to take, by Jaw,
£"2 property of those who caiim : auord to
part with it at thair ltipulated i. ,»r c l,,
'" c choose to part with it at .ill. In the
tafe ot giving rich men's garden? to the
hi,i-women, the rich would only Puffer ;
tilt, with regard to the- canals and turn
pi ke roads, liie cale is precisely oppolite :
being taken from the poor and induftri
< us part of the community, to give to llk
rich, idle, and voluptuous. But,
Why all this liberality to a set of met
who have already made their fortunes b\
(peculation, at least most of them ? -Mei
who are now living on the hard earning:
of the poor foidier ; and, not content witl
that, wilh to opprels the very class or peo.
pie who Hand in need of every encourape
ment, 1 mean the farmers of Pemifylvania
ill Mill -A ill it be laid that private iiuerei
ought to give way to public good ; becaufi
»ught to be judge in ins own caie
I o as little purpose will it be urged, tha'
t.'.efe improvements are for the good o
ihe farmers in general, as those immeui
itely adjacent to the canal will feel even
inconvenience, while those at a dillanct
Wixl partake of au equal benefit.
CONSIDEKATOR.
Philadelphia county, July 3b, 1793.
Abftradt of Foreign Intelligence.
to the Bth of June, received by the Jum
Tacket, arrived at New-York f.oir
Faiinouth, on Tuesday evening last.
On the 23d of May a general attack wa
made upon the French i„ their camp at l'a
mars. 1 hi'action l alfeci j hours, about 30c
piifoflers ( Uyi the London ac count) and ,c
pieces of cannon were taken from the
i iencn : 20 iion-commillioned officers anc
dbouc 300 ot the combined armies fell —
An important victory had been gamed om
1F infiirgents in Poitou. bv ; ,ener..
kellermaa: the rebels in Brittany have
-ten prevented from pursuing then- f,„-
<, ( ! v,,,0 » s . a ™*'S tiiem.Vlves and
•U u ant ot magazines. A very formic!,-
Jlu force was 111 motion agamlt then the
rfirf ß ofMa^Thi ' L< -' ,i,en c "^ :
•t May 28, mentions in an extract of a let
.ei from A.mu cm, of May 19, r hat •• - ie .
nei ai i.nftine ,iad succeeded beyond ev■
befn t M„ n rk' l^ UC r oUriMg - MentZ ' Wl,ict ' lla <
1? on ail hues. Havitio- ad
vanced at the head of a numerous army
lie attacked general Wurmfer.and oblige
bun to retreat He then, with part ofim
■ loops attacked a corps of ti.e Pru.'liaa ar
"l " nder P"nce Hohenloe, at Carle/berg
Z Sl7 U tlm important pof
-"the fiench. trout this article it ap.
Jears, that the combined armies are ami
• llydriven from the ports which they hac
-ake,] to cover the army befiegine M ntz
Liiat by this means the communication be
-ween this army and the combined armie
i;l|ng on the Handers frontier is cut off
fhis wtllpreveurallfupplies from con,i ni
1 the grand armies by the Rhine, and wif
11 a great mcafure determine the fate o
-campaign. The German papers con
1.111 the above account, adding that tin
a hole circ.e i, the highest alarm.-Or
"il1« r r r ilrrl,ed rtt often<l an Eng.
"11 Meet 01 tranlports, with horses, trooos
mil lupplies ot all kinds tor the grand a--
u.e»— i |,e /-rench had'made a sortie I ron
L'l.e, and cut to pieces two of the bell
Dutch regiments. The Hollanders ffoor
th t ' ,e ",'. l ufua intrepidity, till their rank.
ivere so thinned a „d broke as ,0 make fur
i-efiftanc. unpoflible, when the greater
'art of the lurvivoi s w ere taken prisoners
Om the evening of \lay29lh, 7 cco Frencn
roups marchedl from Dunkirk, and on the
D. n L » (u n,iles ea » oi
IJu .kiikj where were polled a body oi
inch and Anlirian troops to the number
>t 1200. 1 hey made a vigorous reliitance
,ut were forced to yield to superior
jr 1f" ! lle French inftanrly entered and
00k poffeffio" of all the (lores and ammu
utiori, deposited there for the use of the
:ampatgn. Vast number, of wounds
■\ eri sent to Oltend : univerl'al panic had
eized all defenptions of people, and the
rench army was looked for at Oltend on
ne 4111 ot June, where their whole depen
lence was on the the troops ju If arrived
10m England who if they could not re
-5 rench, would inewtably have the
norti the immeßre M _
or the r a ", UtlK ' r stores '
01 the combined armies, fall into the
lands of the republicans.—-A. body of 20
men ot the French were lying before
em. I v V£ ;"p arK therof equal
' 1 en., th lay at Boucham ; and a tliird in
lantin.e Handers, to watch the enemy in
diat quarter.—Every thing announced in
oilhcidt'es to the combined
*- !' lc,r of fubjugatin..
D'Artois had'been
• i-g.and to negotiaw with the Britifi.
..'•-'vernuient to take into pav "
Kulhans whonitl.e Kmpreis had agreed t."
1.11 mill, but not to maintain theiu. Tlu
.ouut m. t with a flat denial th ,
bntili ccnirt. He was then at Hull on
ooard a Prulli.iu frigate —Ceneral Mi'an
°a. . ha< bee " a '-quitted of ad the cl
exmudagaiiilt him, and general
\. as f l , rpeKded .11 his command of the run
PHIL ADEL P H I A.
Saturday, August 3.
The committee for the relief of French
St. Domingo fufferers at Baltimore have
written to Mr. Genet, receding his o„i
111011 aoiicermng a further and more ade
ijiu.e relief o. their wants, as the whole
furn subscribed in Biltirfiore, for tint nnr
pose cannot be btherwife than
ponded. On the 22c! nit. the minifterre
ruined his aniwer, informing the commit
* awiong other things, that the niri K'
fieuafioftof these people will no doi ? b[
engage the attention of the reprefeiUa; '
of the nation, but that till fuller itiforma
11 on could be received from St. Pomiii.o
and till the views of these emi ;r m-; r , sh e
United States are better uncierUdo-J lie
only take provi.ional me..;V . .
effect to them ; and the me;|i) *
m order to concur with the Americans in
rendering a charitable f.rvice to those dif
" eued peop ; e, he inclosed to the committee
order 4> >r two thousand doIW™ be
applied to tile relief Of those in Baltimore?
The accounts, lately received by
way of (.aarleUon, of ,60 fail of Britilh
merchantmen being taken by a French
Hcet oft C.rpe J-milterre, appear to be iil
founded. Ihe fleet (or Jamaica had ar
rived there in lafety.
The affray that took place the other day
m the New-York Tonjive Coffee- Houie
between some c.tize.-is of N'ew-Vor'c & an'
omcer of the B.itifl, frigate 80110,, (who
had been lent up prize lnafter of the Re
publican French privateer) is faitl to have
ariten iron the following circumftancc.--
f lie oliicer, after voiciferatiwg again ft the
Americans as a nation, offered to bet a
wager of ico dollars, that the Boffon
would take the,Ambafcade frigate in the
intended en-agement—" and he would
i 111 rant i y Hake the money, provided
he vas sure it would be fafe in this
country. Lponl this Mr. J-effop knocked
him OOWH—the officer role and drew his
Iword—he was again knocked down, then
icu.ed by tile nape of ,he neck and the
wailtband of his breeches, and tolled from
the gallery into tne street Some mer
' antde pel Tons attempted to be insolent in
flu behalf, biK were Coon hulhed by a lav
ing gl-inpfe of the Liberty Cap.
The word Subjea is derived from two
latin words, fignifying ia ft, ct tramoltd
wider J not. The Word is therefore peculi
arly applicable to rovaiiffs, who in aliases
have been willing to lay down their necks
under the foot or tome crowned miscreant
of their own (pecies.—The following is a
copy or a certificate delivered to three
French citizens on their departure from
New-Providence, about a month aco
"This is to certify that Mr. — a
htbjctt of 1-ranee, and prisoner of war, has
hereby permission from the governor to
depart these iflamls for North-America
Wm. iWKenzie, Con miff, of Prifoiiert "
— The word fuvjeit is pleasing to-tlMfe
naves and thev gratify themselves in the
ufeof it when Cht y fener freemen."
The French privateer Sans Pareil, capt.
Botiteille, is arrived at Charleston. Since
her leaving Cape Francois fl, e had taken
four prizes : three of uhich were Spa
niards ; one of whom refilled to flrike to
the republican Hag, and upon being board
e ' the crew jumped overboard, where
they were all kilied or drowned, except
!2 tr.at were forcibly taken up by the uri
vateer. After taking out their cash and
what was valuable of their cargoes, the
two other veifei* were set at liberty The
H!'' eil too , kan brip.
How ard, master, aiul i'ent her into W'U
uiijlgtuii, Nv C.
The Republican, a small French priva
teer was taken 1.,1f week off Sandy Hook,
by the Bolton frigate, and sent into New
i orlv.
The British privateers, cruising between
St. ihomas sa„ 4 lSt. Croix, make a prac
tice of onnging to a „ c ( f earchiil( , „ot only
American, but Danidi vessels alio ; two of
St'Crofx 6 J" . tHken and Carried int "
St. Croix and their captains and crews
ironed and put into the fort, where it is
"J lllctl to keep them HIT or
ders can be had from Denmark about
them 111 plsm Kngliih, two years.
On Wednefclay morning last the French
ligate Ambufcarfe dropped down from
o,;S r i Ct ° n"? k Bay ' in °rderto , u
out: & engage the Bolton frigate, according
to challenge received from the captain of
theßoftoii.ln one of thcNew-York paper.,
,- fa, , lni ? Vt ' fie , ls "er P advertised on th~
■me day to use pMi'engers out of the
Hook, .as fpeciators of rhe intended com
bat. from a paragraph in Mr. Loudon's
r U ~P Pc ars > r ' la ' [ be greater part of
M were myali.hf
t-omg do w „ merely i, congratulate Mr.
;'X Inf? r. /Mrr ' W in lhefe lati
|»<.e-, and t...n toJnttr off and at the
;;j; s yc ;, nr ; "r r ' te t » t r7 ,
>rrs,~ 10 look on and s ee the valiant die."
T t',T ifrV'n ""V ' S h ' ir -' 8 :a ' ccn p' ac c amongst
-t- BruiJU aud lunch partir.aiu. i£ Nc#-York, particularly at the cofFec-Uoufe, ont
«n particular was in cunfequence of some
very imprudent language made lift of by a
u rluil who f..id he belonged to the Bolton
frigate, and was an officer; he was at
tended by a citizen of New-York of equal
Imprudence, who j nued hini in their mu
tual abuse of the French, iiifumuch, tiiat
fume gsntleuien within hearing ot' their
language, ceuld no longer endure it, but
buttled them both into the street, lift
Monday evening—There were apprehen
sions (till entertained, th it other riots
would take o.i Tuefdjy evening."
S -
Extract of a Utter from Savannah, July 9.
" A number of patriotic gentlemen had
a pul»lic dinner here 011 the 4th of this
mouth, to drink a health to the French
and American republics. I was among
t tern, and fejt myfelf highly gratified bv
t ieir ardent expreliious ot gratitude and
attachment to the republic of France.—
Every honed man ought to support her. I
hope the reign ot k:ngs,wnoai'conlv pow
erful robbersSc murderer?, will soon give
way to the reign of virtue and jultice. ]
fee I tor every drop of patriotic blood thai
j. fh<d in this contcft, as if it flowed lrom
lav own heart.
" A few Britifla Captains of veflels, and
2 or 3 Britiih merchants, as I uuderlland,
who have been admitted citizens ol this
date, liacf a dinner 011 the 4th ot June tc
celebrate their k.ng's birth day.Peoplehert
look o;i this as,i itupid prejudice, fimiiai
to that of a tribe in the Ea(t Indies, vrhc
worihip, as their God, a blue lSynt
which they name Jagranaiity"
A correspondent begs leave to qnery—l:
it not a difgraceful bufiiefs fur Americai
revenue cutters to be employed in bring
ing challenges front the captains of Briti.i
iiiips of war, hovering off the coast, t<
French frigates happening to be in oui
ports ; and whether any mail of prudenc<
commanding a cutter, would not rejeil
with disdain the office of bringing the (ill;
challenge of an envenomed ruffian to ;
friend and ally ?
By a gentlemen in ij days from Ofwe.
f>o, we are favored wicn the following in
t.'lligcnce : —
Thai the co'mrtiflioners appointed tc
treat with the Indians after being detain■
ed some weeks at Niagara for want ol
proper court credentials from the execu
tive of the United State?, h d py needed ir
company with a number of Bi ftilh officer.'
to Saudt.llty, the place appointed for th;
treaty. Soon after their commencing or
the business of their million, a runner arri
ved from the Ohio with information tflai
G«n. Wayne was moving forward wit!
his army to Sandulky—at which the Indi
ans appeared to be gre.itly exasperated.
threatened the commiif oners, and in fhori
in tilted 011 removing to Niagara to com
plete the treaty ; with which the com
initlioners, from personal fafety. though
proper to comply. Here the buiinefs wa:
again interrupted by the arrival oi form
chiefs oil the part of iiie Onandago, Maf
ft-flinger, and Cocknewager nations, whe
infilled on returning to Sandiifky—which
being agreed on, their counter-march was
to commence the day our informant lefi
Ofwego. He adds, tlrat Gov. Sinicoev. a:
to accompany the comniiflroners.
At a meeting of a number of merchant!
in Bolton 011 the 22d of July, several vote:
were puffed, declaratory of the neutralitj
of the United States in the |'relent war be
tween the European powers, me obliga
tion on Americans to oDferve exifling trea
ties, and to bring to condign punilhmen
any citizen of these Hates concerned in fit
ting out privateers, &c.—The authority
and motives of this meeting are quelliont't
in another Bolton paper ; and the whol«
represented as a pompous parade to en
force a purpose for which the proclamati
on of the Prelident is fully competent', ii
practicable. It is hinted also that this
meeting has aflturied to itfelf the function:
of certain persons, well known in Bolton
tailed Jeleci men.
11 is remarkable (fays a correspondent,
that monarchy in all countries is of a re"
clul'e spirit. The emperor of Mogulllan
in Alia, only Ihews himfelf to his subjects
once a year : The king of once
every seven years. The ancient Mexican
kings in America (hewed themfelvcs once
a week : and the present kings of Ebo and
Angola, in Guinea, do the fame thing
t'jtfice a month. When wooden idols and
gi' iven images occupied the place of kings,
they were brought out at certain periods
of time and exhibited to the multitude,
who then returned well ple.ifed to their
dry bread and servitude. Such has been
the strange tafli Of defpotifin in all ages,
that counts more for itfelf upon affeiting
the people with ideas of diftai-it awe and
reverential terror, than by habits of cour
tesy and affability. Indeed it is in the na
ture of man t• eftecm highly what he is
but imperfectly acquainted with, and upon
this principle it is that kings.
Like other Jecrets men adore.
Are hid to be rever'd the more.
We hear the TENTH of AUGUST,
will be celebrated this year in the United
State*-, by • all true friends of France ; that
bein;; the real birth-day of rc|Vublican li
berty to our Gallic allies., and uot the 14th
■'I July, which was only the era of a flight
reformation from defpotilin.
a inong the names of tliofe, against whom
b'.li of indictment have been found, for
fitting out vtflels of war in this port, it is
laughable enough te find some wtio were
conl'picuous among the addressers ot the
Prelidenc, on the liibje£l of his proclama
tion of neutrality !
At half pall 6 o'clock on Wednesday
morninglalt, tile Ainbufcadefrigateweigli
c<J anchor from the North river and llood
tor b.i.idy Hook—by 9 (he cleared the nar
rows, and was out of fight of the extreme
point ut the battery. On the Monday
preceding, Capt. Boinpard had tranfmittcc
the following letter to Capt. Courtney, ol
the Britilh frigate Boflon—dated 01; board
the Ambuscade, July 29,
" S I K,
" I HAVE received an invitation by a
{loop which you boarded yellerday, to fail
out ot this harbour and light your fri
gate ; 1 should not have litiitated a mo
ment to comply with your wishes (which
i-'em to me only oftenlible) had you con
veyed your challenge in the mode that ho
nour prelcribes. Upon an occalion of thi:
kind, i should have written to the oppolite
commandant and have pledged my honour
that 1 was unattended by any other armei
veilel, and tliat I would not employ au)
artifice or ilratagem, unbecoming the cha
rai'.er ot a bra/e and candid f'oldier; a:
you have conducted yourfelf in a diifereni
manner, yon may be fenfiblc tliat I cannoi
conliltvnily with my duty, ertpofe the bravt
men I have the honour to commaad, 0.
vague and uuauthenticattd reports.
" Therefore, lir, if you are really th<
brave man, that you pretend to be, purfut
the above nVealures, and as soon as I re
ceive your answer, I ill all do mylelf tin
honour ot waiting 011 you.
(Signed) " BOMPARD."
Captain Commandant of the l'Aaibufcade
Captain Bompard, having received in
ahfwer to the letter, refolded how
ever, not to dil'appoint the martial ai'doui
oi Captain Courtney, and therefore l'ailee
from New York, as above mentioned, tt
wait upwir him.
We hear lorn Shrewfoury that abwnt 5
o'clock on Thursday morning lad, the fri
gate i'Ambnicade was leen engaging with
the Boflon frigate otf that place. Aftei
keeping it up from two to three hours, the
Bolton Had her foremalt and fore top mail
ihot away j in' consequence of which fee
made what fail ihe could and flood off tc
sea. The Ainbilfcade, tho' fomewhai
damaged iu h'tr (lauding rigging, and final]
Ipars, ilood alter her,and w lien out of fighl
of land, they were again heard engaging.
The final result was not known when this
paper went to press.
Authentic particulars reluive to the en
gagement between the Amoufcade ana
Bujlun Frigates—-from a Utter datec
Shrezjbtiry, Aug. t.
"At five in the morning, the two fri
gates hove in light directly ulf Shrewsbury,
3 leagues from-lie land. At three quar
ters pall live they began to engage, and the
action continued,with intervals of manoeu
vring, pretty brilk till seven, the Ambus
cade having much the advantage of the
wind. The action then became more
sharp, and continued so some time, wher
the Ambuscade appeared much in confu
fion, from tho British frigate raking hei
conliderably. At thisjiin&ure a (hot irofr
the Ambulcade carried away ths Bolton':
main topmafl, which falling overboard th<
wreck appeared to embarrass them verj
much, The snips then retired 5 fmatl dif
tance from cach other, as by mutnal con
sent. In one quarter of an hour the Bos
ton bore away to the louthward, and the
Ambuscade aiter her, till they wery near
ly out of fighr. The Boflon was under
the fail she could set, -irid the French fri
gate also, but her main topfaii only hall
mail high, probably from the mall being
injured, ihe Britifli frigates main top
mall appeared to be carried away very
near the cap. The Boflou's bearing away
as Ihe did, was no doubt with a design to
refit, which it was thought he might do by
one o'clock, when probably the engage
ment was resumed. From all appearance
it was thought the BritiQi frigate would
be taken."
[We are informed the Boflon frigate
was manned for engaging with 295 able
seamen and 4 j boys. The Ambuscade had
300 men and 40 boys, and 28 volunteer;
fioma French Eafl Indiaman. J
A general meeting of the citizens of
New-York has been advertised, to conli
der the propriety of addressing the miniller
ot the French republic, who is expected
flicrtly in that city from Philadelphia.
An eallern paper received by the lafl
mail. intorn s that Admiral (J ardner's fleet
(the lame that made the inetfeftHal attack
on Mariinico) has l«-ft' the Well-Indies,
and failed for .England.
Mr. Hammond, the Britifii miniller, we
are informed, left this city on Wednesday
lift far iN'sv-i'vrk, ihoniv after tlie e;;-
traordinary mail, bringing the pack«t
ntelligence, arrived here.
rke French privateer, Republican, af
ter being captured by the irigate Lofton,
was lent into New-York, with difpatehes
lor Sir John Temple ; and tiiere ltopt by
the governor ot' New-York,, who liot
withttanding the English Confiil's repre
sentations, retufed to release lier until he
heard from the federal executive.
Yelterda'y about ;o A. M. anchored be
fore this city ihe French Republican Fri-
La Precieufe of 40 guns, and the
La Bornant, a 22 j-un (hip. They both
laluted the city with their cannon, which
was returned from the artillery on Mar
ket-ltreet wharf, accompanied with the
Ihouts and huzzas of thousands offpeila
tors.
We are frequently told by the arifto'-
cratic or court scribblers, that the (pint
ot Liberty which appears to be revived in
our country, at the present moment, is the
offspring ot a fixed enmity to the general
government ;and thatnonebut antifcdtral
ijts are anxious about the faithful cliichargt
of our obligations to France. — The molt
avowed and inveterate enemies of the
could not pronounce a more
severe satire against it. What! are the
friends of the government to be fought for
among the enemies of ottr national faith,
the feoffors at liberty and equality, the vi
-1 itiers of a generous people fighting for
l.berty againlt au holt of despots, the old
tories, and a Britilli mercantile faction
reiiding amongst us I If so, thank Heaven
that the almolt united voice ot the yeo
manry ot America speaks a different lan
guage.
Late accounts from Ireland mention
that upwards often thousand people were
in arms in the wefiern parts of that island,
committing every kind of havoc and de
valuation. The military force was obli
ged to retreat oefore them. This infur
reclion is said to have been occafioued by
the militia act, and the present diftrefles u
rifing from the war.
The general aflembly of this state will
meet, puilnant to adjournment, oil Tues
day t he 27th init.
The last letters France fay, th it
the principal body of the insurgent army
has •been completely defeated by the army
ot the Convention.
Many French refugees from St. po
mingo are arrived at New-York 111 the
lalt ltage of human diltref>. The fame
may be said to be the cafe with those arri
ved here on Friday laft
[Furthtr Heait ef "fbrefgn Advices, iy
iftv Packet. J
In the late iijtalligencs from Paris, many
erions appi ehenfions are entertained, that
he cause of liberty in France is greatly en-
Jangered by internal plots of concealed en
;mies, the agents of ariltocracy and royal
:oalition, who fihding it impofflble thatarij
mpreliion can be made upon France by
<irce of arms, are determined to destroy
he republic by dint of intrigue and gold,
md annihilate the present convention by
?xci;inga general inful rection; andthereby
?tfoaing a counter-revolution. M. Coii
iorcet had propo.ed the convoking a new
:ofivention on the fit of Nov. 1793, the
lilcuffiun of which propolltion was defer,
ed to a future day. It was fufpetted his
notrve for this nteafure was, a certainty
hat corruption exilted to an alarming de
cree in the present convention, which 110-
:bing fliori of ks diflolution could do away.
Or. the 15th of May 14,000 men were tc
Tiarell from Paris, to join other troops, in
he interior, against the insurgents of Ven
lee, and the districts of the Loire. They
ivere well provided with llores of every
cind, and upwards of So pieces of crnnon,
An idea was fuggefied by Gen. Santerre,
• hat as soon as the counter-revolutio.iilL
liotild be subdued, an army of 100,000 mes
2.0u1d make a descent on England, to pr„-
-laim an appeal to the English people 01
:he present war.
I lie accounts in former p;:pers of the
Jc.uh ot the Marquis de la Fayette, appeal
to be talfe. He is Hill in the prison o!
Magdeburgh, with Lameth and his other
companions in misfortune, in good heafth,
but in very close and unhealthy apartments.
I hey are allowed to fee nobody, and not
to have the Icalt comnlumcation with each
othei J , and prohibited the life of the pen.
The French commilfioners; with General
Bournonville were removed from Macf
tricht on the 23d of May, t-o be confined in
ihe interior of Germany.
Letters and public papers from Holland
mention, that the t.orfes of the Auftiiai;
and PrufJiau cavalry had been feiztd with
the glanders ; which, whe;i one confiden
that their cavalry is all that renders the
combined forces formidable to the French,
makes it probable that they will no: be
able to yidtf thro* trance this summer.
The following paragraph is takea from
the Whitehall Evening Pott of the 23d ot
May last, and we are informed that a print
ed copy of thi decree alluded' to has bp CD
trahf mitted to a merchant in Philadelphia .
'• The French National CorA-emU «' hav~
pallid a decree, djudging : ,lt vefl'rls of
neutral naiioiiG, ljidrn with torn cr military
Itoies for ihe supply of any country at war
"i;li Jratc.-j b* lawful fy.z-i to ,*at!)
yefiels belonging to the republic at foaii*.
intercept them."
The inhabitants of Dantzic have taken,
the new oath to the king of Prussia, under
circumlfances of imich pomp and folein
mty. There were exhortations from
preachers, from texts felefted by the Pruf
lian commillioners; then fpeccbes from
these commissioners, andanfwers from two
dr three magistrates ; then a proceilip i to
take the oaths J ; tnc 1 Jnltly, thepopuuee
(huuted. " Long live Frederjpk Wiliiam
tlie good Father of his people I"
In April lull. Le brun, i-'rench minhtcr
for foreign affairs, transmitted letter.
Lord Grenriilc, making overtures o peatc.
No answer was given, chiefly, it ls f.iuu
because letters were communicated
thro a Mr. Saltar, an oblcure London nfc*
tary public. Polfibly their fto'machs Jnay
conie to after a while.
For tbt National Gazette.
The United States 1 In the Circuit Court
, ' J< - r " for the Diftrift of
Gideon Henfield. J Pennsylvania.
was an indictment charging th»?
defendant in twelve laboured co.unt.,
lV 'th having entered on board a French
Pnvateer, and assisted ip capturing a Uri
tiflive flel, "contrary to the law' of na-'
tiojis, to the laws of the United States, and
againlt the peace and dignity „f the fame "
The evidence on the trial ellablilhed these
points, to wit That Gideon Henfield, te
ing a citizen and inhabitant of the United'
States, and having a family relident at
Salem m the state of Majfachufetn, enter
ed, as pnze-mafter, on board the Citizen
a privateer belonging to the French
which failed from I'harleflon,
in the Hate of South- Carolina that o.i the
voyage and while Gideon He,,field was ,„i
the 6 Ge "ft captured an Ew-
I'Jli fhrp called the William; and u tc
Gull on He,,field, takmg poliellion of the
*' p ; a ®. P.'. l ? e ,"J a ? er ' bl ' on 2 ht her into the
poi c of Philadelphia.
Af.er several days were consumed in ar
guments by the counsel, and the court had
indulged thenifeiw# in repeated charge*
bejury, amalt the acclamations of their
no°t v sr uced oate ° n H '"* U
Hy this verdict," which, according to the
ha«£e of the court, include, a deciflon on
the /aw a, well as the/*«?,< i: is now e,
jlilhed, that a citizen of the United States
may lawfully enter on board a Fkhic/i
pi ivateer ■, and, it is prcfiimabfp, tint no
for the fame caUl> c
oef.ilU.ned; as it would be contrary to tie
principles ot impartial jnftice, that any man
. ',n lut '""e, beconvifted and pnr.uh
sd. or do ng what in Gideon He., field v.-a,
no crime, and iflcin red no nennlfy
With refpea to the charge of the cot-t •
<vhlcl) declared explici. ° th - '
committed by Gideon HehfieU «ere
anon of the law* of the land, and punifha
fwnld° "r fy- la " :e,,r < t!m any occation
Krvt f mtrct! " c '"g motives of po
licy, to influence the decilions of our coi'ru
biMieltrfb n °f W ?' Jc we c »teriain the
h ghelt efteeni for the wisdom and integri
yr «"u JU - gcs ' to forget the
i e.pcc. that is due to the Virtue and inde
pendence of our juries, When the seven
(good and celebrated men) weie
hr dilf'r f enrio , n:n .2 ? a,nes the 2d, a fimi
rtpnrh nA C f °(°P'. n ">o arose between the
she ' the July : ths . P e °Ple then, as
"T y t ' xil l lte ' ll i; 1 verdict of
■•cqti.tta.; and our pollerity will, probably
k'enei ate tins, as we venerate that jury for
Riding ro the fecurit, of the ri md
liberties of mankind. 1 W
A Dialogue between WriAcuM
and ''Wh i ffle.
WHACUM ! said Whiffle (eager to reproach)
h) ride j ou m that ancient crazy coach 1
MaZmL CreiltS! " fretted V idi and
viany fuppdfe it once belong d to Adam ;
so loose, so weak, your coacbn.an makes report
lou nfijue each hour a uwbn in the dirt." *
'wnIFFI.E said V.hacuny) tho' it be a
wreck,
And threatens much the fracture of my neck
yet, to the last this coach 1 s wear J U ride ; n *
V» h, ch Jorty years my grandfire did conr.u- i- -
T'ovo-(pray take it in good part—)
July IT Had C tCM -'
& The T SRMs for this paper a- e thrre
dohars per annum ; on, dod-a axl • r
payable ill advance, and for- rt, '
at the coroiaencement of eve v h "r'
— fxpences of poiU ; .- e
ance, to be paid by the p"rfoa fSrVribing!
o' 'i U ied °m : 1111 n i c 11(1 11 s' n our next;
m .his paper for want of room.
r R I C E OF STOCKS.
'^ ;x per Cejits j^
><»
the Vi.l;rj St km tf/.c.j-- ommtinicaUd by a Correfpen dent, -with a
' nquej} for publication.]
v SONGS,
unj at the celebration o/ th<- Fourth of July,
1,03, in Paflyunk Townlhip, Dy a Seleil
VwOaipanv.
To the Tnne—Jeho Dobbin.
WEST of til' old Atlantic, firm Liberty flands !
Hov'ring Fame jult alighted, fuppo.ted by
bands
Of natives free born, who still loudly fiirg,
*' Wc II detend oarjuft light-, npainft tirant and
king." Chorus, "Taral La'ddey, &c.
George the Third (he difowas and his proud lordlj
cheats,
His murd ring legions and half famifh'd fleets,
vVho flew thr®' the Jeifies, with fear quite dif
may'd,
Altho* they much boasted that <* fighting's their
tra de." Chorus.
Ourjuft rights to aflert hath the Congrtfs oft tried
Whole wifoom and Ifrength our opponents
deride j
And still, madly, in rage, their weak thunderi
are hurl'd,
"o bring us on onr knees, and to bully the yorld.
Chorus.
Too haughty to qsit, yet too weak ?o withstand,
They (ku'k to their fliips and leave us the him
land,
In dread left they ftiare, what Jack Burgoyne did
feel,
And the game be quite loft, as poor Jack had loit
<kah Chorus.
Jack,thinking of Cribbage, A!) fours,or of Putt,f
With a dfjrt'rous hand he did fliuffle and cut ;
-And when Ikely to lose. Mike a ih-rperthey fa\ ]
Did attempt to reneague-1 mean, run away.
Chorus.
J3ut watched (o closely, he could not play booty,
-» et, to cheat he laia would, £for George 'iwa?
his dut),)
A great bet depending on that Tingle game,
I>. minion and hoftor, deftrupion and ihame.
Chorus.
He examined with care his mod critical hand,
At a loss (if'tA-ere better) to beg or to stand j
his tricks reckoned up,| tor ail fliarpers ear
jangle,
Then kick'd up a dust for h's favourite wrangle.
Chorus.
'Twas diamond cut diamond, spades of nc
u/e,
But to dig up the way to surrender or truce,
F.or he dreaded the hand that dealt ouc fucli
thumps,
As tne hearts were run out, and clubs were then
trumps. Chorus.
Thus he met with the rubbers, as the game ii
turn'd out,
Poor Ja<k, aftho* beat, made a terrible rout ;
C< >n, . n d he wj? cheated,yet,pompouflv talks,)
<*u Lhe game with a curse, while he rubb'd oui
the chalks. Chorus
But (> e a cloud burst, and four Cherubs* appear !
LouJ trumpeting peace, while in blood to thei;
ears,
th Bulls and with pardons, for us on fubmiflion
To lull us and gull us, by their Jham commijfion.
Chorus.
Tne haughty great George, then to peace is nov
prone,
A bully when matched soon canaltfrrhis tone ;
Tis the a£t t.f a Briiori to bluster and threaten,
Hang his tail like a puppy, when handfomei;
beaten* Chorus*
Charge your glafles lip high, to brave Wash inc
ton fmg,
To the Union so glorious, United States ring j
JVlay their counsels in wildom and valour unite,
.And the men be wrong, who, yet so far an
Chorus.
The great Doflor FRANKLIN the next glaf
mult claim,
Whose eJeftrical rod struck terror and fhamr ;
Like Moses' who.caos'd Pharaoh's heart-Itrin
to grumble,
sh-ick'd George and his throne, his magieian
made hureWev Choi us.
To Gates and* to* Lincolif, in bumpers join,
And to all our Drave treops who took gambi'in,
Burgoyne j
May their luck still increase, as they've turn\
up one Jack,
To cut and rum up' all the Knaves in the
PACR * Ctioius.
[ Sorg zd ;n cur next. T
f Burgovne was laid to be as great a gamblei
as any in London.
J At the time of hi'S treaty of surrender at Sa
ratoga.
|| See his- pompous proclamation.
* Ihe four Briti/h Commiftoners.
The CongreA of 1779.
METEOROLOGICAL OBsEkPATIONS.
July j.793.
D. H llarum. \1 her.\ IV.nl. Weather
Tuesday, 23. 6 30. cI 73 I S<. W Fair.
V2O 01 j d»• Cloudy.
Wednejduy, 24. 29.95! 75 j — im. . Cloudy.
3 30 05J 89 | W. Fair.
Urutjdayy 25 6 30. I 71 W Fair.
3. 12 83 n.n w do.
Friday, 2.6. 6 30.2,5 03 'N. I Pair.
3 25' Sa |N. E j do.
Saturday; 27- 30. 2 64 J . | Fair.
V 3°- ' Si j j Cloudy.
Sunday, 28. t>| %t>. 1 72 j Jm. j CUudy.
3 30. S 5 |n. n >j r air
Jfianday, 29. 6i 30. 12 74 jb. £.I,7oudy,
3! 19* N.E, ißaw.
DIALOGUE between the three cele
brated traitors Arnold,La Favetie, and
Dumourier,—from Lc Courier de U
Lune, a French paper of July 12.
/Irnold. You deceive yourfelf, Marquis,
as well as me ; and your fault comforts me.
Did you expedl t« be happy in betraying
your nation ?
Marquis Not at all ; I never meant to
betray my country ; but I had taken an
oath to which I would remain faithful.
Dumourier. Gentlemen, speak not o!
treason, that is not the proper term ; as I
am of the triumvirate, I make use of my
right, and tell you, that you had nothing
in view but your own interest. Of what
importance to a warrior is the name of the
sovereign he serves ; he fliould never un
(heath his sword, 'till the lalt of the of
fertrs has pulled out his purse, and mea
sured his fa-vices »o the weight of the
go'd it contains.
La Fayeite Though in a degree culpa
ble, those principles were never mine ;
but I could never retift the tears ot madan
Elizabeth, the young prince and princess,
nd still much less the tender proofs oj
friendjhip I have repeatedly experienced ir
:he queen's arms. But, Arnold, what
ivas your reason ?
Arnold. I never had any ; I believe 1
was crazy; when I recoiled the tender as
Fe&ions of the Americans, the tears flou
from my eyes, and my bleeding heart
leaves in my mind but the t»idhire oftht
unfortunate Andre, whom I cauied to be
massacred.
Dumourier. What a weak mind dor;
:bis man polh fs. Arnold! Arnold ! yot
tay that you have commanded ?
Arnold. Y ts, unfortunately, and bravt
foldters-
Dumourier. Who then caused you tc
abandon your country ?
Arnold. Alas 1 the loss of good sense,
lie flattt rv and promiles of the Britif!
:ourt, the intrigue of several members oi
;he Conprefs,that I never had the ftrengtl
:o unmalk, so certain I was then of refili
ng their perfidy.
La Fayette. Your fate, Arnold, is to bt
pitted ; but mine—fincc I quitted my ar
my I believe an inf»rn 1 power attends
me every where. Those brave toldrers,
ivho loved tne so much, who cariied tnt
n triumph 011 their shoulders to the fron
-iers of the en my ; that brave nation,
ivhich had for me such unbounded affec
:ion, which would have ere&ed altars foi
me, and which now detests me, are to m(
it present a spring of all evils. Alas !
lupport me ; 1 fink under the weight o:
my griefs.
Dumourier. Young warrior, your deli
racy betrays your chara&er; and I forgive
you on account of your youth ; but you
Arnold! for (hame! don't you know
-hat warriors, like Us, rrfque all with thcii
leeks ? recoiled! that it is neceflary for u:
:o fubrnit to our fate with cduragr, arte
:vtr to calculate oil it before hand in eafc
if misfortune. For my part # I gave goor
ecurity to a bad efoance on the bank ol
London. The (ladtholder, prince Co
>ourg and Mr. Pitt, did so much, and of.
et ed so much, that my warlike log it
:ould not refill their powerful yellow ar
guments.
La Fayette. If my nation would take
ny life for the pledge of my repentance,
f would at lead die happy.
Arnold. IfArrterica but alas!
vho would have any any thing to do with
o consummate a traitor.—Had I perished
tt the battle of Saratoga, or at Qiiebec,
ny memory would have been ever grateful
:ot!ie Americana, and I llvould have been
:ternally celebrated in the oratiitos songs,
md toalts of their leftive days- But my
-arly merits are sWallowed up in the greJt
ibvfs of my after treafou : How easy is it
for a man to outlive his popularity I and
Irow mu h do We wrong fortune when-we
tuppofe that (lie is alwas inimical to a war
rior when ihe direfis the cannon or mu!-
quet ball, or the p iint of the bayonet; to
his heart in the midtt of a battle I
Reflections on feveralfuhjdls.
I THE blockheads and knaves of this
world (and they arc a vast majority of the
world) have got things-into such a train,
that the feeret how to get rich seems tc,
lie among themlelves only ; and the fayin
is almolt proverbial—" Such a fellow lias
a very thick head—bn sense enough, how
ever, to make money." Look at numbers
of individuals, we could ]«oint out : How
dull upon every liberal fubjefi ! Stupor
«jnd iufipidity pervade everj idea; aod
yoii would think the god of dalltief. him-
Ic-If was operating upon their understand-
Kigs while any literary topic is difcufling ;
but let money be made the theme, and the
congenial foul of sympathy inftantlv a
wakens from its numbers—and becomes
eloquent on a theme whkh it finds per
feftly conijnant to its ideas and nature.
2. Poetry may be reckoned a declining
m. Ever iincc the ages of fable have dif
appeared it has ! een gradually losing
'round, and as the world advances towards
Jniverfal republicanif.a the ideas of man
nd become prosaic. Even in monarchies
poetry is now at a low ebb and not even
t"ic splendid favours of nobility, or the
countenance of the monarch, can iufpire
trains beyond tame mediocrity. Pociical
panegyrills are at present every win re des
pised, and in proportion as principles su
persede attachment to men, they will be
jomc more ai.d more detelled. Real po
ttry> however, will one day have its refur
cction; buc its profeffors will no longer
be court sycophants, or miserable depen
dents upon what are called tf c great
-1 lie republican virtues will be their great
eft theme, and the promotion of gooJ
will, peace, and friendA ip among mankind
their mainobjeft, instead of singing the
bloody battles, and reheaifing the military
praises of crown 'd murderers. It may be
"bfeived, that poetiy is r.ot to the genetal
tafle of Americans. They have too much
cool refle&ion to be amtifed bv trifles, t!,e
monotony of metre, and the' jingling of
rhymer-. Every po.t must look with a
jealous eye oil the diversions of the circus ;
and it was with some pain- I have obser
ved that the fineft morality and molt ele
vated r.mufements of the theatre have been
frequently for the equestrian en
tertainment of the heels, and the monkey
tricks of clowns and rope dancers!
J UST PUKLIShE 1),
And to be fold by Tuns!& s Dobson. Wil
liam Young, Robkht Campbell-
MeHrs. Rice and Co. and Joirn M
Ctti.LOCM, No. i. North Thirc-ltreet,
\N' EXAMINATION of the l ite pro
ceedings in Congress fefoefting the
official conduct of the Secreiary of tilt
reafury; with Obrervations, on the
application of loans from Molt ml. neoo, i
-ited under the acta of the 4th and 12th e*
'79° —The price of the above
pamphlet ia three fixtetirths of a dollar, 01
is 4d'. r-j April 24. tf
» The author requests hi* readers ti
corre.t the following EKRATA in the
pamphlet above mentioned — Page 5.
line 11 —2d. paragraph, tor Coa it,on re.ul
Lo.lijiqn. Page2s- line ii—2d parag.
inilead of Bank direttojs read "Stock
holders."
TO THE PUBLIC.
"INHERE AS an attachment at the suit of Sam
uel imlay and Nathaniel Imlay, execut i
of the testament and last will u s i v eter Imlay, de
ceafcJ, has ifTued out of the Supreme C <urt ol
Judicature of the itate of New. Jersey,- agv>fnft th'»
land# of Garret Voorheis, late of the county o
M'ddlrfex, and (late aforefaid, returnable to th<
hi ft Tuesday in September, feventetn Kundret
and ninety ii hereby given to th
laid Oanet Voorh'ei*, that unless he appear an>
site Special bail to the said a&ion, judgmen
wiH be entered against him, by default, and th
l3uds so attached fold for the fatUfa&ion of fuel
of his creditors a? ftiall appear to be justly tntillec
co any demand thereon,- and /hall apply for tha
purpefe, according to the form of the statute ir
such cafe made and provided.
' By order of the Courf,
Apr J 17. law. iy HOWELLv^Ik.
"jfu/i PubUJhcd,
And to be at the Ofh eot the Nationa
Gazette, No. 209, Market-street,
Th\x celebrated tile Rook, e titled—
SURE AND CERTAIN METHODS
of at aining a
LONG
AND
HE A L TUT LIF E.
W1 itten by
LEWIS GORNARO, an Italian Nobleman,
When he was near an Hundred Years o't Ay.e
VVIIII a recommendation bv the H >n. Jx/si)-»•
Addison, of the Spe&a-tor 1 )
In the following Words :
Cf pORNARO was of an in fir ft. constitution
C'H about forty, whert by (teadily perliit
irtg 1 n ihecouife of li-fe recommended in this lit
ie book, he recovered a perf<-& ita'e of health,
.•tft much that at fourfcore he publilhed rhi
*oik. He lived to give a third and fourth edi
tiou of it j and having paHVd his llundrroth
year, died without pai-n or agony, like one whe
falls The treatise Y inention has beep
taker) notice ot by feveralcrrtirii'nt'authors, and js
written wi;h such a Ipirit'ol ch'eerfuliiels, religion,
and gooJfcnle, as are the natuiai
of t.-mperance and The mixture ol
tne old man in it, i% lather a idcomaieadatioii
nan a discredit to it."
N. I>, The London edition ka\ fold f<f 6/6.
Ti/ s American bundjiViiiy lov net and
tired, for 5/3 crJy. j. w . 3. w.
PRICE CURRENT.
Dollars Cents.
( ioo Cents make, i dollar.)
A.HES, pot pe - ton I2od to Us d
pel-lb
(houlders do 5
Beet, Bolton per barrel ,'T
Country cfo j
Beer, American ,n boctlM frt/oiod
including butt! per dor. 1( , 40c
ditto per b;„ ; u |6
<->ces wax per in ? L
Brandy, Conine p I _ ' c
ooj rooc
conn-i - o
Gutter in k, ~lb S ?£
U.eele, ( nt per lb g c ,? c
Engliih £
Chocolate ]8c »
2
Codfilh per ,v t , i
- J' • - , 4 3 c ?2C
-.opperas per cwt ul 67c
Cordage, Am'cricjr, p«r cwt -rf 6-c 8d
Cotton per lb ' ,0.
■lax per lb ,' C r -
F'axfeed per btifli. "
Flour fflperftiii'per barrel ,1 -T
common jd'oc
Bur.iiiuWlings, b 1 > f l qo
Meal Indian pu- bbl. 2(1 cij
Rye, do _, t(
Gin, Holland per cafe 4;! 66c
' . P"' r 2 : '- !1o » Sot occ
r' " g r- , , 20c 24c
Uunpow der, fine glazed per qr t 4 ,[
Grain, Barley per •.u.hcl
Bell : lie lied per bnfhel •>,) (, JC
Buckwheat per bftlbt'l " 40c
Indian corn ,
JerfeV, do l-'
' Oats '>
Kye
Hm W! " at r —to
am ' . P er lb , vc to lOC
Hemp, imported per ton uod j 4 6d 67c
—American per lb
Hides, raw per lb \
H"P S „ 8c
Ho ley per lb
Indigo, Carolina per lb , d I(1 tQ {
French fd 2CC ld 6 "
Iron, Bar per ton g ,
(.a!tmgs per du*£ 4< |
Nnl-rods ptruw , old
,Jh
tps ,1° %
y iyr' le wax per lb '
Molattes per gallon 4 o c s~oc5 ~ oc
Mil.tarcl. flonr, in hot. per doz, 1( J 2 oc
recond ijtial ty, per doz. B yc
Niib. 8d i,:d 12(1 and iu! tier lb. , oc
0.1 Lmfrcl pei -ail u '.s. b6t
—° livr r 87c
' er 2d 50c
s: periß f c c
P |tch t>W Id 73cid
Porter per calk Jr , ,
London per doz J; | ( IQC
Amer. bot. inchi. u | 6oc
Pork. Bin lino-ton, per bbl
Lover county ~ j
'Carolina
Rice- per cwt 3 d 4 c
Ruin, AntJgua pergaf
B/rbadees g 7 "
Country, N. E. 6 , c
Jamaica ld , 2C
Saltpetre P"r cwt 14U 3;c
Salt, Allnm. pes bulh , , r
Cadiz '
Litbon 2 , c
Liverpool , , c
Snakeroot per lb soc 4 jc
siuift, per doz. bot. 4d s U6oc
" r 1 " 33 c 4°J
loap, Brown jierlb (..
White 8o
ti«roh per lb 7e
sugar, Havannab, white, strife J4C 16c
Brown , OCIJC
jvluleovado per cwt 9c 12c
Lump per lb 2IC
toaif'. lingle 22C
double ditto Jlc
Tallow, relincd, per lb ,n C
Tar. New -Jersey 24 gal per bbl j d
-Carolina, gal 2 j
Tea, Hyson per lb 93c id 28c
JOC 93c
iiea 33C 36c
FobaccO, Jaines River, best 4 d 3^
Inferior 3< j 33^
P' 1 ' 4 d 67c
K ippdiannock 3d 33c,
Coio:i: ed Maryland sc! 33c Sc^'
Dark 2 d
40c
Long-leaf 2 d 40c
l.aHern-ihore ed ad 2!c
Carolina, nev 2 d 7c 3d
r . ° !<l , 3 (l 33c
1 nrpentme per bbl 2 d 33c
Wine, Madeira, p. P. 1 7 5 d 226 d
Lilbon iaodiß6J
renerifFi per gal 63c
to id 20c
PRINTED BV
GUILDS and SWA IN E.
1 H81« > Frt C K NO. )r, H 5 r & JLi T 9
MAI ri|TH S'lilUT,
r*Ji A®lLtnkAt