, o . a TP j u7 rn and Saturdays, [Three Dollars per annum.']
By P. FR E NE A U; (at No. 209, Market Street) Pubhjhtd Wednesdays ana. f
Nomb. 94 of Vol. ll.] SATURDAY, September 21, 1793.
For the National Gazette.
No. i.
REMARKS ON the PRESIDENT':
PROCLAMATION ENJOIN
ING NEUTRALITY.
THE Proclamation of the President de
claring the neutrality of these States
in the present European war, has occasion
ed much converlitiou throughout Ameri
ca, and will no deubt attract the attention
of the belligerent power*. Great public
a£ts merit the notice of those whom they
concern : by foreign nations they will be
scanned with freedom : at Home they
fliould at least be well understood. The
following observations therefore are in
tended brietly to difcufi the propriety of
this measure of the chief magistrate.
For this purpose it will be nec^uary,in
the firft inllance, to mark with prccifipu
the design of the Proclamation; and this
jnuft be collected principally from the in
strument itfelf. When its true import
shall be fettled, the subsequent analysis will
be fliort. If perspicuity is the object, there
are but few points arising in it, and theie
by no means of extenlive scope.
Before, however, 1 proceed to a more
critical examination ot its contents, I think
proper to observe, that it mult be deemed
either an ordinary ait of the executive,
founded on the existing state of things, and
intended as a warning to our citizens to
av&id a departure from it ; or an indepen
dent one growing out of the powers ot
that department, and in relation to par
ticular occurrences, declaring what the
future conduct ofthefe States shall be. In
the former view, the President must be
considered as only the vindicator or execu
tor of the law as it now is. In the latter,
as the author of the law. It mult be viewed
in one or other bf these lights : it eithei
produces fume efFect, or it docs not,
in either cafe is attributable to the source.
and admits only of the conftrurtion hereb)
given.
Frum the molt correct and difpaffionatc
view that I have been able to take of it,
I am inclined to think it belongs to the
latter head. The following passages in
the firft and second paragraphs seem to be
very explicit to that effe£t. " Whereas it
appears that a slate of war e'xifts between,
&c. and the duty and interefl of the Uni
ted States require, that they fliould with
sincerity and good faith adept and pursue a
conduct friendly and impartial towards
the belligerent powers. I have therefore
thought fit, by these presents to declare tht
difpoiltion of the United States to observe
the conduit aforefaid towards those pow
ers refpeftively, &c.'" The terms adopi
and pursue, in the firft paragraph, argue
an unsettled itate ot things, and that some
thing yet remains to be done before theii
course is shaped : that iri relation to a par
ticular object; no arrangement has beer
made : no plan formed : and that ol
course one is yet to be adopted. And thof<
in thefecond, " I have therefore though:
fit, by these presents to declare the difpofi-
Hon of the United States; to observe tht
conduct aforefaid, towards those power:
refpeitively, &c." fecm to be regularl)
founded on the premises contained in the
firft. A plan or fvftem of conduct is here
by formed and designated. The course
which, in his opinion, the duty and inte
rest of the U»ited States require us tc
adopt andptirjue is hereby adopted, and in
consequence the puriuit and observance
enjoined on the people of America, Under
the fevered penalties,
These terms are in fact tot) strong and
explicit to leave any doubt of the delign of
the Proclamation ; for I cannot Conceive
what others would have been used, if in
reality the sole direction of these States, in
relation to that controversy, had been vett
ed in the executive. Nor can it be pre
sumed that the President, if he had not
supposed that he poflefled the power, land
, intended this as an exercise of it, would
have used a style which countenanced the
idea. He well knows that acts of this kind,
if allowed, however unauthorized, soon
grow into precedent. And he eftimatei
too highly the equal balance of the go
vernment, and the security of the public
rights, to impair by a vicious one, through
the means of executive influence, those of
the legislature, already unhappily totter
ing under the prefiiire of many causes,
from its true equilibrium.
Other considerations, though extraneous
to the ast, yet connected with the transac
tion, demonstrate (till fnrtker the proprie
ty of this cQuftruiUpa. The President here-
by declares the di/pn/ition of the Unifrd
States, relative to that eontroverfy. £ roin
what authority di',l he make the declara
tion ? There exifb, it is true, a competent
power in the government lor that purpose.
!c mil ft be veited either in the legislative,
or executive, or jointly in both- Bnt t.ie
Cornier had exprefied no sentiment on the
fubjert, and its sense could only be known
by its own arti. That the legiflat.ure ha.i
not declared orherwife, when tile point
h t td never been submitted to their conlide
ration, nor brought by any incident before
them, wodld be no warrant to infer that
fnch was their dijpofition. The common
arid negative Rate of things was no ground
for an affirmative conclufiwn. The ast in
-it'ier view lhould be an affirmative one,
;>r drawn from an affirmative proposition
legatived. And if to the legillature the
3o\ver belonged, and any emergency called
for the decision, thai; body fhoiitd have
aecil convened, and every circumstance
lCceflary to a founii decision laid before it.
Upon the idea that the legiflatnre pof-
Vfled the power in queltion, and the Pro
:lamution was intended in the view abovt
"uggefted, the conduct of the chief magif
:r°te would be deemed not only unworthy
ttfhini, but highly reprehensible. To take
for granted, and to proclaim as the abfo
lute dijp'tfiliou and final arrangement ol
hi: country, and upon the molt important
concerns, what was never decided, not
even difcufled by the proper authority ; tc
withhold from that authority, and during
i long adjournment, although cotiltiuon
illy fubjefted to his call, those confidera
:ions which made some decision necessary ;
ind to regulate in the interim, thole greai
jslitical movements, if not in dirert oppo-
Icion to the sense of the community, yet
:ertainly by an usurpation of its powers,
would be arts too daring and outrageous tc
je borrie by an independent and free peo
)le. They fureiy are not attributable tc
he present chief magistrate of the United
Slates!
The replies given by the Prefidentto the
"everal addresses presented him on this Head,
s another fourcu from which some light
nay be thrown on thisfubject. Proceed
ngs of this kind, it is true, are generally
o be considered more, as official ceremo
lics, than as official arts. Yet, where the
uldrefs is founded on an official art, the
-eply so far as it extends, may be f.iirl)
teemed explanatory of the art itfelf, a:
.veil as of the motives which led to it.
With this view the whole fliould be ex
imined by the iriquifitive and imparthi
eader. It wilt be found that they al
ureathe the fame sentiment, or at leail
'orm no departure frosn it. For thfc fake
jf brevity however, I fball content myfeli
ay referring to the firfl, being that whicl
ivas rendered to the merchants of Phila
delphia; It contains the following para
graph—" Fully persuaded that the happi
ness and best interests of the people of thi
United States will be promoted by obferv
ng a ftrici neutrality in the present cornel'
among the powers of Europe—it gives m<
oleafure to learn that tht merfure which 1
have taken to declare to the world thei<
iifpofition on this head, has given genera
atisfartion to the citizens of Pennsylvania.'
We find here precisely the fame sentiment:
jlreadyexprefled in the Prdclamation, witi
he fame tone of authority, and apparen:
atitude and exercise of discretion.
Whether theif we regard the content:
:>f the proclamation itfelf, or those othei
:bnliderations coimerted with it, we an
led to conclude, that the President con
nived himftlf constitutionally authorizec
:o controul the political condurt of theft
states, in relation to the present Europeai
war ; and actually intended his proclama
;ion as an exercise of that power, thereb;
declaring their neutrality therein. Anc
under this conftruftion I shall next proceec
to examine the propriety of the art in qiief
tion. WARREN.
From the Richmond Chronicle.
DREAMS, according to ancient and mo
dern tlieologifts, have generally beer
ranged under two different classes, the fu
pernatural and natural—the firfl being the
immediate inspiration from heaven, in or
der to inform mankisd of an approaching
good, ortoadmonifh them against an ap
proaching evil—the latter being an impref
fion stamped on the minds of men by some
objert wherein they feel themselves highly
interested, either individually, or as mem
bers of the c#mmunity whereof they be
long ; to which of these causes the follow-
ing dream ought to be attributed, is lefi
to the judgment of the reader: 1
dreamt 1 was once more* iu the Feceral
city in the yeat* 1830, and on my entrance
raw the man whom I had seen in the year
IS2i , who now irlfbrmed me that he wa;
the guardian genius of America, & imme
diately directed me to follow him to the
palace door of the President, where he
wduld uiifdU to me the fate of my much
beloved America—t obeyed, my mind fore
boding some great Calamity. Ten years ago.
said he,you was aitoriilhed at the folly ofyoui
countrymen, in allowing such magnificent
buildings to be erected, but how much more
caUse have you now to deplorethe fri'ilty of
human nature ; ObfVrve the superb decora
lions -_>r the \arioi.s palaces ot the officer:
of'government, and the 6 per certt. gentry,
with their equipages and numerous attend
ance, c onfining of fiddlers,dancing and ting
ing mafters,cooks and barbers, and then tell
me if such imitations of the curtpins of the
European princes, are not fufficient tc
draw every European vice and tolly 011
the nation ? That tall man you saw jutt now
enter the levee room is Mr. Implicati
on, lord thief justice of the United States ;
all the officers of the Federal government
have the highest refpeit for him,.for when
any of them feel inclined to encroach on
the rights of the people, they apply to him.
It is to him the senate applied in order to
keep their doors fhut—lt is to him the se
cretary of the treasury applied in order to
puzzle himfelf, and the nation, with his
fubliißf financiering for four years—lt is to
him iSiat they applied to conllrue treaties,
to the dithononr of the nation —Itisaifc
to him they applied for law to determine
the unjust payment of Britifli debts—and il
is to him thac the Federal government bj
various afiumptions of power, will imper
ceptibly swallow up the St ite government;
—Tife "eibre, said he, proclaim aloud to the
nation, and fear no man, and fay that tiii;
ten miles square will cause herdeftruction;
for it is the rec&ptacle of every vice and ol
every folly—the opulent, the ambitious
and designing men are here collefted —the
(tainting army, the navy, the arsenal, anc
magazines, with every other warlike pre
paration ; are all under the controul oi
men, whose uniform conduit betrays ar
avidity to pre-eminence and lucrative
offices, and to procure and preserve whicl
every artifice will be exerted. America
wants neither pomp nor (how in order tc
be well governed. It is only necessary a
mong despots t® delude the people with
baubles. The energetic manner whicl
le feenied to exclaim with, had such an ef
fect on my organs, that I awoke.
* For the firlt dream, fee National Ga
zette No. 179.
The following Proclamation was publijhet
by Gen. Rochambeau, at Martinique, ot,
the \th of July lajl:—lt is an addrefi
to .ill the free Citizens of that colony.
CITrZENS,
THE French fleet is to arrive here soon
:o give the patriots a triumph over the re
jel inhabitants, and the coalesced Englifli.
But (till we have something to do before
:he arrival of the civil commiflaries ■, wt
(hall, no doubt, succeed in the execution.
All the negroes renia'n inactive —a great
number of (laves have deserted their w6rk.
:o fly to the diverse carnps—they are dif
nerfed over the country ; they kind re con
laorations and commit horrid murder;
ind dreadful depreciations. It is the dutj
of all the friends of France to prevent fiict
?xce(Tes : the united patriots mult put th;
laves in mind of their duty, they muf
-ender them subservient both to agricul
ture and their mafiers. it belongs to the
ommittee of Surveillance to propagate
:his doftnne —it belongs to the brave
National Guards to fpreadit; and I arr
po(iti»e that the free men of colour, wh«
liave fought under my eyes with so mucf
courage, will feel the importance of uhi:
ul'efUl truth. Let them be well perfnad
ed that the plantations of the emigrant;
ought to be cultivated with as much care
as those of the patriots, frnce they belong
to the republic, and (ince these very plan
tations are to pay the expcnce of this civil
war.
In donfequence.we order the committee
of Surveillance, firft to sequester all the
plantations and pofleffions of the emigrant;
from this colony. 2ndly, To afccrtain the
quantity of fugats, coffee and other good;
or effetts that (hall be found on said plan
tations, that nothing may be diverted.—
To disarm all the flayes who, under
the title of "(cwnyanj yf wurjynca," dc
[Total Numb. 198.]
pi-edate the country; reserving to me the
righj to eftablifli and to take in the pay of
the republic a body of free men undet- the
name of " Chafleurs of Martinique,'' of
which I have given the command to citi
zen Bellegarde, and for which I have chos
en officers—4thly, To require affittance
from th« military commandants, ellablifh
ed by us, for the preservation of the faiA
objects. and for the dilarming of the slaves,
these said commandants (hall be anfwera
bie for the depredations committed by
their troops Jthly, We also order the
diverse committees of Surveillance to take,
the names of all the armed slaves who hav*.
dittinguiflied themselves in this war, that
I niay free them, firft taking with their
maftcrs proper meafiires to indemnify them
—and that I may present a 1 ft of the o
thers to the civil coinmiflaries, and solicit
their liberty.—6thly, We ort er every
armed {lave to retire peacefully wi'Vui
eight days after the publication of this pro«
clamation to the pljmtation of his mailer,
after having depolited his mulket into the
hands of the officer of the committee of
the place where he fliall be ; and In cafe
t>f a contravention, he fliall be immediate
ly arretted by the national guard of this,
jlace; and executed without any other
orm, if he make any reliftance.—7thly,
The committees of Surveillance (hall give
Co the fajd slaves a certificate, in the form
jreleated to them, to attest their 2 ool t
:ondn£t and their docility.—Bthly, We
forbid all owners of negroes who have
aided in this war to inflict on them an/
>unilhment whatever, when they fliall re
;uru to their plantation.—9thly. We order
he planters and those charged with the.
:are of the sequestrations, to cause a great
quantity of provisions to be raised, to make
tmends for those furniflieti by force dur
ng the last campaign.
Done at the fort of the Republic, the
+th ol jmy 1793. the 2d year o( the French!
Republic.
ROCHAMBEAU.
Domejlic Intelligence.
Newbury-Port, Sept. 7. Yesterday ar
rived here, brig Margaret, capt. J. Hol
land, in 8 weeks from Hamburg—Captain
Holland spoke with a large fleet ot Englifli
men o( war, in the Engliih channel, on the
22d of July—on the 23d spoke another fleet
of Engiilh men of war, both bound up the
channel, treated hiin very civilly, as did
a number of privateers which he spoke 011
his paflage On the July, spoke
With the (hip Morning-Star, William
Campbell, matter, of and from Philadel
phia, bound to.Falmouth, about 16 leagues
W.of Scilly, ail well.—Augult i Bth, (poke
a large fleet of Englifli (hips ffom Jamaica,
bound to England, under convoy of j fail
of men of war, ona of which boarded hitn.
but treated him very civilly.
Bojlon, Sep. 9. Captain J. Freeman,
from Bayonne, in France, but latt from St.
Andero, where he was carried bv a Spa
ni(h privateer, and which he left the last
of July—informs that the Spaniards do but
very little ill the war, and do not appear
lifpofed to risque miich. While he was
at Bayonne, it was expected for 19 tlavs,
that the Spaniards were meditating an at
tack upon that place ; but when he came
away it was reported, that they were all
balled off for another expedition.
Baltimore, Sept. 14. This forenoon a
detachment of capt. Mackenheimier's com
pany of militia, marched out of town to
take possession of a pass on the Philadelphia
road in order to (top all persons toming
from that city to this town, till they ar«
ixamintd by health officers, and declared
tree of the mrlignant fever, or anX other
ilangefous disease which might infect the
inhabitants of Baltimore, who were never
known at this feafbn of thf year to enjoy a
better state of health than they do a: pre
sent.
Yesterday erening the Prefulent arrived
in this town from Philadelphia, oil his way
to Mount Vernon.
Extrali $f a letter from a gentleman (n-
Rottcrdam,to his brother in this town da
ted June 26.
11 The French hold fact ; they,a fewdays
past, made a very great (laughter among
the Dutch ; but in this country your senti
ments must be kept fetret; for a little dil
clofure your head is off; so you cannot
expert much news to be depended on from
the combined armies."
Salem, Sept. 10. Capt. Henderfon in
Slic fcJipooer arrived Jip.Cf our l-.ifj;from Nantz, in 50 days; he informs us.
liiac he left that city the 14th July, and
that for 15 da>s previous to his departure
it was belieged by an army of'bc .ween 60
and 80,000 royalists or insurgents; that
the city was defended by 50,009 national
troops, who were aided by the inhabitants ;
that the generel after viliting the-different
ports, and guarding securely the ciiy, made
a salty upon the enemy witli 30, goo chosen
troops, at 10 in the morning 011 the 29th
June; he met a warm reception from
them, and thecontell continued the whole
day. At dark, the national troops returned,
leaving the insurgents, who in the night
retreated to theii fortification, about nine
miles from Nantz. The day capt. Hen
tlerfon failed, the 1 general marched from
the city with 35.000 troops, in order to at
tack the insurgents in theirencampment —
he was to be joined with an army of one
fiundred thoufatid men from Paris, with a
line held of artillery—and it was generally
believed at Nantz, that the 2 armies would
utterly dedroy that of the rebels* Tlu
people in the city had been much alarmed
for their fate .luring the (iege, but had re
covered their fpiiits at the defeat of the
royalifls,-and were under no appretienfions
of a second attack. it was impoflible cc
ascertain the number killed—upwards cf
100,000 men were fighting nearly 10 hours,
and the firing was inieflant—it was suppo
sed there were nearly 20,000 killed and
wounded 011 both (ides. The general would
not give a datement of the killed and
wounded of the patriots—the-latter mult
live been conliderable, as the trumpeter!
"Went through the c : ty, requeuing the use
•of the spare beds of the inhabitants for the
"wounded soldiers, which was immediately
-complied with.
The insurgents were poorly armed, ma
ny of them having nothing but long wood
en spears—but they have been iafatuated
to such a degree by the obstinate prietls,
their leaders, that tjiey evinced great va
lour, marching up to the mouths of the
patriots' field pieces. Many of the pri
soners who were brought in, declared their
v/ifhtohave died in battle 011 that day, (St.
-Peter's) as the priests told them that Saint
ivould deliver up to the (lain th« keys of
■heaven, and permit them 10 march therein!
A volunteer artillery officer, who fre
quently dined with capt. Henderfon, in
formed him that in pursuing the retreating
insurgents, for three miles f bey were o
fcliged to drag their field pieces over the
dead bodies of the enemy.
A gentleman in this town has received a
a letterfrom his correfpoideiit at Cadiz,
informing of the (hortnef of the crops in
Spain, andthegreat scarcity of grain—Hour
"Was 4ql. fterlingper barrel.
Citizen Freneav, '
"T HAVE anxioully considered the nature
- 1 of the malignant fever, which has for
Jfome time raged with so much violence in
Philadelphia. It appears to be the.putrid
yeilow fever of the Weft-Indi»s, which
also occurs in many other countries, during
a long continuance of hot weather. Th
fyiiiptoms of the disorder are pain and
Jieavinefs in the head, (icknefs with an in
-clinatiou to vomit, anxiety and oppression
about the region of the heart, a feebk
jmlfe, great prostration of ftreugth, and
.«lefect cf perspiration.
Whether with some medical authors we
consider the redundancy and depravatior
of the bile, as one of the causes of the
disorder, or merely as a symptom ; it i
.generally allowed, that if it isnot immedi
ately removed by proper evacuating medi
-cines, it becomes afecondary cause of ir
ritation, and supports the disease.
Some eminent phyftcians conlidering thi;
•disease as ariling wholly from debility, con
fine their method of cure to cordial, flimu
lating, and tonic remedies; the cold batl
is particularly recommended, and is said t<
have been efteilual in removing the difeaft
in twenty-four hours. This plan was re
commended by Francis Pearce of Sant:
•Cruz, fourteen years ago, in a letter to Dr
Lettfom, of London. Had this elegant anc
easy method of cure been found gencrall)
-fuccefsful, there is no doubt it would b)
this time have been universally adopted ii:
theiflands : on the contrary, we find eva
luations in the commencement of this dif
<eafe are dill thought absolutely necefl'ary.
The symptoms and hidory of the disease
Joint to two indications of cure—
r. To remove congestions in the abdo
minal veflels.
2. To remove the atoniaof the extreme
■vessels, and promote perspiration.
The disordered state of the ftomacll and
"bowels indicates the neceflity of having the
firlt pafl'ages cleansed by vomits and purga
tives. To answer these intentions, the pa
tient on the firlt appearance of the disease
should dilTolve three grains of emetic tartar
in a pint of water, and take one third every
half hour, until the deiired effect is pro
duced. As a purge, eight or ten grains ol
calomel, united with the fame quantity ot
jalap,as recommended by our worthy ci
tizen Dr. Rlifh, is equal to any. I would
rather increase the quantity of the mercu
ry than jalap, because whild the latter acts
inerely as a purge, the former has some
«tf'e£t as a general dimulus on the fyfteai,
and therefore tends to remove glandular
ebUru&ions, and to promote feeretion
tlie ("mailer veflels. In "the prefent a lu "
>ng fever, which has increased beyond the
power of regular medical afliftancc, every
family/houW be provided with the above
medicines, by the early use of which, the
3r<?at danger of the difurder may be re
moved.
A medical gentleman now redding in
Philadelphia, who for a number of years
had an extcnlive practice ill the island of
Jamaica, informs me that it is common in
that place for the -type of the yellow fever
to be changed to that of a remittent on the
early and l ee use of Evacuants. May not
the alteration oWerved in the appeara: ce of
the fever in Philadelphia, be attributed to
a Innilar mode of practice now adopted by
the physicians, in the )>lace of bark, wine
and opium, with which they at firft attack
ed the disease, to obviate the symptoms of
debility ?
Some physicians object to purgative me
dici»es in this disease, from their taking oft
the determination from "he furface : but
this objection applies only to violent dras
tic medicines, which we by no mean re
commend. Dr. Hutk. who was for some
time in the French and Spanish iflmds in
the Weft Indies, after describing thefymp
toms of the most malignant fevers,obferves
—'■ I have more than once seen this fever
with all tliefe symptoms, carried olf by
bleeding,and exhibiting within a few hours
from the firft attack of the disease, a me
dicine which operated pretty briskly both
by vomit and fool." In a continued putrid
lever, which takes place every year in the
island of Java, Bontius fays, the evacuation
•>t the si, ft pafTages is the principal part of
the cure.
Dr. Lind, in his Efiays, giving direftiens
lor the cure of the putrid fevers which at
tack ftrangersin warm climates, observes,
:hatthe chief objeit of attention in allfuch
Fevers, are the cSnteuts of th« (lomach and
nteftines.
Our second indication is to remove the
itonia of the extreme veflels. This I
:onlider of not less importance than the
rormer, but which is too frequently ne
jleoted, to the great danger of the patient.
The perfpirabie matter and other fluids
3eing confined in the small veflels,for want
jf power in those veflels to perform their
proper functions, soon becomes putrid,
therefore a neceflity of the immediate ap
plication of stimulants, to t xcite the action
as the vtrflels.by which the fluids contained
n-them may be discharged, oth'erwife the
putrid matter titfelf soon becomes a pow
erful sedative, and produce* coma, le
thargy, and death. At this Fatal stage of
the disease, b'ifters hare been universally
recommended ; but a putrefa£lion of the
lltiids contained in the vjfcnlar and cellular
Fyftem having taken place, the application
of this valuable medicine is generally at
tended with no otheradvantage, than for a
(hort time to rouse the patient from his
Hate of lethargy.
Baglivi, an eminent physician of Rome,
highly recommends blistering plaifters, ir
fevers accompanied v\ ith a very low pulse,
a coldnSfsin the extreme parts, anxiety, a
iropenlity to sleepy disorders,& other marks
as coagulation. Dr. Cullen, w hen speaking
sf the cure of the plague, recommends Lilif
:ers tc~ake off directly the spasm from the
urface. Blisters were conlidered merely as
Umulartts. and used as such by the Arabi
ms, who firft invented them and brought
:herr.i;nto >use. Conlidering Cantharides
is a /general and powerful Kimulus, why
lot mike trfe of this valuable meJicine in
:he firft .*tage of the disease, to remove the
itonia of thevelfels. This desirable pur-
FH.fe might be effected, and a general per
piration promoted at the fame time, b>
initing the tin&ure of Cantharides with ar
'qual quantity offweet spirit of nitre and
intimonial wine, of which mixture fifieei:
Irops might be taken every three hours,
beginning early in the disorder : During
;he use of this remedy, plenty of diluents,
:amarind water, and acidulated drinks,
hould be made use of. After the removal of
:h<? tever, and the violent symptoms of the
Jiforder is abated, a nourifliing diet, wine,
ind the cold bath, should be made use of
:o restore the tone of the system.
I luve not mentioned Bleeding in this
liforder, because, except in very plethoric
tiabits, I do not think it neceflary to the
-ure. Moll authors, as well ancient a;
modem, generally agree that malignant
Fevers by no means admit of bleeding
yet Sydenham and Aftruc administered it ir
all cases ; and Huxam and Pringle allow
it may be performed with advantage under
certain circumstances, ejpecially in the ke
linning. Huxam allerts, that where there
is a redundance of blood, particularly in
Prong and plethoric habits, it is absolutely
neceflary, and fhouid be done as early as
pofiible.
As to the do£trine of antidotes, to pre
vent the contagion, it is as vain as the doc
trine of charms. The only method of
preventing the operation of the contagion,
is to put the body in a state superior to it,
by cold bathing, generous but temperate
living, and particularly by keeping the
body cool and open by the use of laxatives.
We find children who are generally in thi;
state, generate less bile, and are less fub
jeft to the disease than the young and mid
dle aged in whom the bile abounds.
GEO. LOGAN.
Sept. 18, 1793.
Qlfervations on llse late i nJlruHiotts to Britj/l
Jta commanders : Addrejftd to theparticu
lar confederation of merchants, farmers,
and artizans.
i'.' roln The (Boston) Independent Chronicle.
lute additional instructions given at
St. James's, to tlie commanders ot his
majesty's fiiips of war and priyateers, &c
totally detlroy the free trade of these dates,
which we are entitled to as a neutral pov.'-
tr. i ho' we are acting Itriftly within the
bounds of neutrality, yet we are reducec
almolt to as bad a lituation, as it
our commerce, as if we were a&ualJy al
war. The exportation of the produce ol
this country, of corn, meal, ;.ud flour intc
any port of France, is absolutely prohibit
ed, and this whole trade is now monopo
lized by the British.
Tliefe enumerated articles are orderec
to be feut into the Britilh ports, not to bi
fold at the open market, lor the higliel
price that can be obtained, but to be pur
chased on behalf of his niajefty's govern
ment, and at such rates as certain agent:
u.ay think fit to give. The ill after probabl)
to receive his pay in exchequer bills, whicl
may be at a depreciation of iO percent.
Let any merchant judge how this will
operate 011 his property, not only from
the price of the articles being greatly re
■ -iced in the British.ports, by the quantit)
Lnt in, but from the exclusive t a Hum
ed oy government, to purchase tlfem w.ith
uut any competitor, at such rates as the)
may please to allow. It is probable, from
:hu mode, that the American produce will
be fold to government, at a much less rate
han it colt in America.
But it is answered, " that the marten
at such (hips, on giving due Jecurity, to be
approved of by the court of admiralty, art
icrinitted to proceed to the ports o't an>
country in amity with his majeity." This
:laufe rqere tiuefl'e, to give a' plijufible
appearance of gcnerolity and equity to the
:ranfa£tion; tor every man mult know
:iiat the diihculty will be so great to obtair
:his " due security," that no master wil.
>e able to take any advantage from this ap
parent indulgence.
The 2d article exposes every Americaf
fctiel to condemnation, as the commander:
ji his maj-effy's (hips of war, privsteer«
&c. are licensed tofeize all (hips, " WHAT
EVER BE THEIR CARGOES," that
hould be found attempting, after a certair
leriod, to enter any blockaded port, anc
:o Tend the fame to England for " CON-
By this article, ths
:rade of this country to France is entirelv
ieffroyed ; as it rests solely with his ma
efty to declare any porf to be blockaded,
ind all veflels cleaned out for such port,
• whatever be their cargoes," are fuhjeci
0 condemnation.
T he state of the American trade, not
■vithftanding our neutrality, ftanrfs thus :
1 he Englifii Weft-India illands are by aa
>f Parliament expressly ihut against us—
jur navigation labouring under every em
jarrallhient and reltriaicn in the English
)orts—our fur-trade cutoff by retaining
iur frontier ports—and our veflels and car
goes forfeited, (hould we attempt to carry
111 any trade whatever, with the only Eu
ropean power that offers to negociate with
us on the terms of reciprocity.
A bieiled situation truly! CAMillus
anil PAcificus come forward and vindi
cate the lenity of Britain ; continue to blall
[lie Ft ench, and vent theirfpleen against
the only nation that seem disposed to be
friend us.
Is it agreeable to the modern usage ol
nations, that neutral veflels, " whatever
may be their cargoes," Ihould be Cent into
the port of one power it war for " CO\-
DEMNArION," for attempting to enter
the port of another ?—This is a stretch of
authority never before praftifed, and in
fact is a wanton display of arrogance, too
humiliating to be submitted to by a sove
reign nation.
If our trade is so completely deranged,
whence are to arise our funds for the pay
ment of our public debt ?—A serious con
lidcration this even for PACif icus, unlefa
a LAND-TAX is recommended by him
Co make up the deficiency.*
It is probable by the next European
mips we fliall hear, -whatports are declared
blockaded by his majesty, and without doubt
every port in France will be conlicfered in
that predicament; also their Weft-India
1 (lands, provided a Brjtifh cutter is sent to
cruise within certain latitudes, to effefl
the " indemnity" hinted at by Mr. Fox
in his late speech.
The unfriendly difpofitton of Britain to
wards this country, we may expedt) will
be fully discovered under the fantfion of
Ins majesty's late " inftruaions." Our
WEST-INDIA TRADE, FISHERIES,
and every other valuable branch of com
merce, will ere long fall a facrifice to the
tmparrafleled » USAGE" now adopted by
tins nation. As they have prohibited the
American trade to their Weft.lndia illands
they will now endeavour to destroy what n e
carry on with the French. This effort will
be made under the extensive, unlimited
plea, ot preventing fnpplies to places de
clared by his majesty as blockaded.
11 is a serious reflection to every citizen
of these dates, that notwithstanding our
neutrality, \ye are thus cxpofed to such
gross iilipoffioni. .* a mitral natio*
can ;my measure be i ,ore unjait than that
our vejlels and cargoes k ■ hatever they may
be) fbould be fubjeft to "condemnation,"
Ihould we attempt to fend therti to any place
which his majelty may pieafe to declare
blockaded, even though they are article*
which the LAWS OF NATIONS never
fpecihed or conceived to be contraband >
CAHcnv7^ Vm MA J JiK th "R.
CaKGOES, are expreflionsr/hich. likea
fpnnge, itrilce at one dash otir whole na
vi gation with the French nation, and of
confluence throw trade altogether under
the coiitroul of theßritifh.
Provided this is fuffered to be practiced
whence are to arise our commercial advan
tages as a neutral nation ?— So far iron,
bung curriers for the powers at war we
are deprived of being our own carriers,
unlets to such places as the king of Great!
Britain, in his great goodness, shall condef.
cend to permit us.
It is hoped that C.ngrefs will be fooit
called together, that the energy of our eo.
i eminent,in its legislative capacity, may be
exercised, fpccdil y to baffle the deflruci ive
measures systematically pursuing by the
Enghfli to destroy the commerce ol these
Hates—7 he promotion of our navigation
and the fuppert of our- national dignity'
being the fundamental principles in the
adoption of the Federal Conflitution, it i.
presumed that our political fathers at their
next meeting, will enait such reflriitive
commercial aas, as will eft'eftually retaliate
on t,ie arrogant ineafures of the British, and
confine that haughty domineering nation at
f" c u llhin tlle b"»nds of decency and mc
deration. Merchants !— Farmers !—Arti
sans . of Anjerica—your interefls are im
r' rt ate COliCtrned ' n 'tis important bu-
A consistent Federalist.
/ rom the Richmoni) and Manchester
Advertiser, oJ~•September 9.
I T has become a question in this
try, whether the citizens of Richmond and
its vicinity, at their meeting of the 17th
nift. were not at leaf}premature ? in their
censures obliquely thrown again!! the
I rench Minister.—l his measure ft ems t®
have taken rife from no better foi ndition,
than the 1 »niour of some insult said to have
been effered by the Minister to the Presi
dent of the United States, evidenced by a
ceitificate of a very lingular complexion
under thesignatures of "John Jay" and
Kuius King" in the following words :—'•
New-York.
CERTAIN late publications render it
proper for lis trt authorise you to inform
the public, that a report having reached
this city from Philadelphia, that Mr. Ge
net, the French Minilter, said he would ap
peal to the People from "certain decilions
of the President; we \\ fre asked, on our
return from that place, whether he had
made such a declaration—we answered
1 hat iie had, and we also mentioned
it to others, aulhorifiHg them to fay tkat
we had so informed them."
"JOHN JAY.
"RUFU3 KING."
These tvvo gentlemen have been so long
111 the practice of the Carthaginian virtues,
as to have become perf<?a adepts, in all
their crooked mysteries, and te the adroit
ness of their former exploits, this certifi
cate w ill add one more /unourable tejii
mony.
The certificate furnifiies neither the
time, plflce, nor circumftarees, attending
tile expredion. It is not stated, whether
it was the refill t of some convivial humour;
whether the (udden ebullition of the mo
ment, preceded by some palliating cir
ciimltance, or whether it was urged in his
official communic'atianj with ihe President.
If it were used in either of the twofirfl
cases, it would not feein to merit that fe
-1 leufnefs, which tlicfc two genrlemen hava
annexed to it: If it were used in the lat
ter cafe, the public would still remain un
informed, in what manner and by whi'/e
---injlrumentali it liasfouiuUta way to the
public ear.
The executive council of advice usually
conlifts of the secretary of slate the se
cretary of the treasury, & the atto'ruey-ge
neral. Communications from foreign mi-
H illers refpeaing the affairs of their ivfprc«
t've nations, are very properly kept fecre..
A promulgation of them by any member
of this council, would be a gross breach of
frelidential confidence. The President's
alfcnt alone could furnifh n juftificstion for
uch condua. It cannot be prefamed, if
the fatt allerted of the minilter be true,
and done 111 his official capacity, the Presi
dent would fanftify its. promulgation wltfc,
his aflent. Such a measure would not
ly be an avowal of the inability of the Pre
lident to protea himfelf from insult, by
means of his constitutional powers: but he
would thereby exhibic himfelf to the world
of nations,as the discoverer of a new species
o Punishment for foreign minilteis, to w it,
an unqualified surrender of them to the
public, to undergo the wanton flagellations
of the press. It is thought the President i«
not emulous of" the honour of the discove
ry, and would not feel himfelf compli
mented if the public fliould infill upon as
cribing it to him. Hence it would not
leew to tie fair/y alVeruined, that theconduct of the minister has been improper
in the (mailed degree, or, if at all impro
per, the extent ol'its impropriety is cer
tainly Itill unknown to the public. One
thing seems to be ascertained biyond pre
sumption, if the ininider's conduce deserve
the ferioufne.fs and importance to
it; it is, that some one ot the executive
council has been guilty of a gross indclic
«y towards the Pretident, in promulgating
the fait.—Ths mind too is naturally leu
to enquire, how far it comports with the
official charatlersot the Chief Juftlce. and .1
Senator'of the United States, to become
the trumpeters of such intelligence And
a more intereding enquiry to the public is.,
what motive eould have diuuilaLcd to
ft range a conduct ? I'he object indubitably
was, to transfer the honed affections of t.ie
American pi 'ople trom tlje cause of France,
to the cause of Britain. The operating
motif! roust have been, a preference or
Britain, to France, ofßritilh to irencn
political principles. Perhaps the chief be
nefit which will accrue to America, trom
the great ciancuffion of opinions rejecting
l're:ich affairs, will be the discovery ot the
real p< t'ncip'les and views of political par
ties -'at hor.ne." —The opinions ot parties
refpefting external politics, furnilh an al
mod infallible index, to the internal ob
je£ts of parties- It is as Angular, as it ib
true, that nearly the fame divilion, is now
found amongd official chara£ters, retpect
jtig French and Britilh politics, wh ch has
uniformly existed, retpeiling the conlti uc
tlon of our own conftiturion & the inter nul
adminidration of the general government.
Those, vvlto have contended tor confining
the operations of government 10 the chai -
tered authorities of the constitution, ana
denied the fanciful of implication
unlimitedly, have uniformly lickd with
France. Those who lnve intrepidly over -
leaped the demarcations of the conuituti
on generated power from convenience.
and despised the foleum obligations ot
laws, have almost unanimously fidedwith
Britain; or to speak in a more courtly
stile, the anti-ministerial party have (idea
with France, the miniderial with Britain.
It mav not be unworthy of remark, that
Jay and' King, who are known to have
Leen amongd the foremud ot this lattei
description of persons, have heretofore af
fected to despise the opinions of the people,
have ridiculed their censorial influence,
and have aflerted the almod riecefiary in
fallibility of the constituted tribunals ; at
this peculiar juncture, and in this particu
lar quedion, they 3re exhibited to the pub
lic, the avowed instigators of a popular
clamour. Nothing has produced more
pain, nothing has excited more alarm tu
the ministerial party, than the honest affec
tions of the American people almod uni
verfally displayed in fovour of the French
cause. This party cannot help applying
the elfefts of this invincible zeal for RE
PUBLICANISM, and this virtuous glow
of Gratitude towards the French nati
on, to their own internal ufarpations and
projects; and they read their certain
downfall, written in the honed hearts ot
the American people, the indant the com
plicated disguise shall be developed, and
the people made to comprehend them.
This party fee the unnatural date ot in
ternal a.Tjirs, they fee kjmall minority in
Congress, fpcaking the sense and iiitereit
of a great majority of the people, and they
Know (whatever they may pr&tend) that
all their artificial expedients, of perpetual
debts, perpetual taxes, of banks, of
foreign and domejl'c. &c. &c. &c. win
prove but slender barriers, againd ene
mies so formidable as the opinions and 111-
tereds of the great majority of enlightened
people. Hence has arisen the project of
an officii five and defenjive alliance with
Britain. Hence the embraces of Britain
are courted 'by the few, as an asylum a
gaind the interests and opinions of the ma
ny. Hence has America been invited to
be-joine the modern Carthage of the world
—hence has arisen Pacificus, teaching us
many new leflons, among the red, that
fuph'Jlry and not feeling is the fotirce of
gratitude—that ail men mnft study logic
before they can be initiated into this- in
tricate Jcience of gratitude—and hence has
arisen a popular clamour through some
strange iudrumentality, to didra£t the
minds of the people, and to arred the pro
frefs of a fympathifmg fraternity between
'rauce and America. It is believed that
this attempt will be as tmfuccefsful as it is
weak and wicked, fcr the people will ea
sily fee that the conduct of the French mi
rider forms no quality of the French cause.
The conduct of the French minider can
not make that cause wrong and vicious,
which originally was good and virtuous.
A contrary idea would make men and not
principles, the fubjeft of o«r adoration.
Such would be the natural and obvious
reasoning in the public mind, admitting
the accusation againd the nunider, in its
mod exaggerated colours; andve fliall
rather sympathise with France, in the re
gret that so good a canfe should be com
mitted to such improper hands, than defrrt
the cause, becanfe its own agents have de
nied it justice. But it is believed that the
rumour exilts only in the most unmerited
and unfounded calumny ; for if the mini
fter were found incompetent to the due
management of his country's cause, the e
jftiryei ufUi- "life S9-EPS"
mies of the m'n'fter, and the fli'onjeft evi
dence of his abilities and patriotifni is fur
niflied in the infamous folicitu'le of the
Britilh faflion to lelfen his perlonal influ
ence in America within the sphere ot his
nation's concerns. It is prefu.ned to be 110
secret at this day in the United States,
that our financi.il minister wishes anotfen
live and defenlive alliance with Britain. !t
may be as little doubted, that the French
as well asßritilh mnlifter, is tully apprised
of this mallerty stroke ot punic policy. If
it were doubted here, perhaps lwdre than
one mail could be found in the city ot Rich
mond, who could verify it to the reluctant
credence of the 1110 ft hardened iceptic.
But, Americans! here let me paul'e fer the
prcfent, without unveiling the whole
plot of the horrid tragedy which seems
now to be preparing tor America, and
briefly (ketch out fjme of it 3 principal
outlines.
Perpetual debt, arid coinrnenfuratfc taxes,
form the great ground work of the plot;
lis machinery conlifts of the failciful genii
of implication, relembling the Heathen
God Proteus ; the manes of Antitedaral
ifin, always called ill to touch the preju
dices of the people ; and the relllefs,
ilnfubllantial spirits of the oace lubHanti.il
Hate fabrics, feigned to be a'ii'i only for the
l&me furpije. &c.
Its indentt are niimerous—a tontenipt
of parchment demarcations, and of laws
—fpeculation—corruption—fraud lies—
deceptions, praftifed upon the people.—
d rference of interests between represen
tatives and coaftituems—injuftice in 1 lit
diltri biitioit of governmental favors, tcm
fequent inequalities in wealth—the old
jealouli-s of Itates made to cover the dit
terence bt the interests of individuals, by
new naming them the difference of the
interests of states , diltinflions in names,
and contempt for the people—cloleted
proceedings—lawless applications of public
money—and incompreheulible complexity
of public accounts,&c. fcc. &c.
The scenery for the teprefentation, will
be scrip obligations of principal and inte
rest—and the Bank of the United States,
which Could alio furnifli an ample and im
penetrable curtain, for co»eriugthe politi
cal hns of the whole world.
The principal chara&ers will be n-pre
fented by heads of departments, scrip-
Members in Congrels, Bank Stock Hold
ers, and the scrip-gentry at large, whether
foreigners or citizens. The Subordinate
characters will be playcdby fools,fycophant?
and paralites, ot all denominations, and
ail who may be inchanted with rlie magical
found of ' King,' or intoxicated with the
turn of ' bal;' ice.'' And Unless the great
majority of Virtuous people, Consulting
their own Interests and happinels, ihould
rulh in and represent the 1110 ft ailivfe and
dignified chara&er in the plot, the fatal
cataftrbphe will exhibit, the crush of li
berty—the fall ofviRTUE— and the tri
umph of DESPOTISM.
Americans ! you are indebted to your
own activity and intelligence, for the pri
vileges you now enjoy ; remember thai
your aliailantS are increased in number am
in cunning ; nothing, therefore, but a
proportionateincreale of the fame activity
and intelligence, will long secure you the
polleflion of them.
A UNIFORM FEDERALIST.
I——
For the National Gazette;
-pttE Fourth of July, being the anni
versary of our Independence, Mr.
B 1, an honorary member of the socie
ty of Cincinnati, was appointed by the
officers of thejerfey line, as their Oracle,
to deliver an oration on the occasion, -
which he did, with great eloquence, frtiir
the pulpit of the Presbyterian Meeting
Houfc in Elisabeth town.
The gentleman displayed his talents *11
applauding the wisdom of tfcat society, ir
chilling prudent and godly men to take
pofleflion of their rights—for which he
received their approbation, Nem. Com anc
also. their public thanks for his patriotic
discourse.
If any man, or society of men, conceivc
it necessary to worJUip, or surrender theit
rights and property to such as they deem
«orlly ■tnen, they have a right so to do.
But the juflice of taking the property oj
one of a different persuasion I deny. The
locai fituatiou of New-Jersey, during the
lute war, compelled many of the inhabi
tants to render a large proportion of ser
vices and supplies, for which they received
due bills—and when the new government
was adopted, Mr. B 1, and others, not
being pofleflors of Juch eti'dence, becaint
patriotic purchafcrs from the distressed
holders, at the price stamped by public
voice—and functioned by the courts ol
justice, at 2/6 in the pound.
W hen payment came in queflion, the>
voted 20f to the purchaser ; whereby t' e
fo'dier, who had painfully earned eo/~. was
c d out of 17/6. From these con
futations, I can by no means be an apos
tle to this Herefiarch, or become a prose
lyte to his 1 eiigion. It is my Creed,
•' that the labourer is worthy of his hire;"
and that I am not obliged to consider
myfelf on a footing with the anhiia\s, that,
the more you beat them, the better they
tovcyou. A SOLDIER,
i'iiiladelphia, Sept. 19.
PHILADELPHIA.
Saturday, September 21.
We are informed, from good authority,
that the rtpj>rt of the yellow fever being
prevalent in Burlington anil Princeton, is
without foundation : those two places, a<
well as all others in Jersey, being at present
exempt from contagious! diseases ot every
kind.
Abundance of wife caution is taken by
the police and people «f New-York for
preventing tlie fpreaduigof the yellow lever
from this city. The corporation have
come to a rej'oltltion to prevent all inter
tonrfe with Philadelphia : for this purpole
armed guards are placed at the different
landings, with orders to fend back every
person going to N. York from this place.
No lodging houses are to receive perfous
from Philadelphia under the fevered penal
ties. Prayers, however, were to be offered
up in molt of the churches of N. York,
that the contagion in Philadelphia may be
Ipeedily destroyed or abated—and the ships
and vessels performing quarantine below
Governor's island, are ordered to wear
black flags, as a signal to the market boats
not to approach too Dear them.
The "lip Manchester, we hear, flas been
got off Turtle Cut beach, and is arrived
in the Delaware. A letter received by
her, dated July 24th. mentions that " tie
French had entirely defeated the insur
gents : it was also the current news in
London, that they had totally defeated the
combined armies, and repulsed them from
before Valenciennes."
On Tuesday, the s/th tilt, a large com
pany of refpeftable citizens aflembled at
Harris's hotel in Charleston (S. t.) to ce
lebrate the victory of the French frigate
l'Ambnfcade over the Britifti frigateßoUon
—in which the old Engliih prejudice, that
one Engli(\imanii amatchfor three French
"Ci, was very fuccefsfully contradicted.
7 he company, we hear, dmed with great
feflivity, and the following toads were
drank, viz. 1. Citizen Bompard, and ills
heroit crew -. may Liberty always have
such gallant defenders, [jcheers.] 2. The
Prelident of the United States. 3. Citizen
Genet, Minister from the Republic of
France. 4- General Caftine. 5. The
memory of General Dampierre, and the
heroes of every rank who died in defence
of liberty- 6. The United States of Ame
rica—perpetuity to their alliance with
France. [3 cheers.] 7. The National
Convention of France : wisdom and una
nimity to their councils. 8. The army and
navy of France. 9. May RepUblicanism
p edominate throughout the world, to the
utter deftructioa of baneful aristocracy !
[3 cheers.] 10. May America never for
get the services rendered her, in ner day
of trial. 11. The rights of man. 12.
The Kepuihcan members, of Congress:—
a decided majority to their patriotic niea
fnres. 13. May Wisdom and Gratitude
influence the councils ot the United State-,
in their conduit towards the French Re
public. 14. The patriotic jury of Phila
delphia, who acquitted Gideon Kentield,
and supported the rights of man.
011 tl?e 14th instant a detachment of mi
litia were marched out of Baltimore, to
take poflefiion of apafs on the Philadelphia
road, in order to flop all pafl'engers from
lierce coming into the town. —At T rcnton,
it is laid, some rigorous orders have been,
within a day or two, ifTued to the fame ef
fect : The Secretary of the Treafurv, and
family (lately recovered from the yellow
fever) were (lopped in that town tin their
way to New York ; and have been under
the necefiity of returning to Pennsylvania.
Extract of a letter from Lisbon, June 4.
" Some of your papers talk ot a fleet
from this country, which is to join lord
Howe, at Portsmouth. —It is true, tha
there are a few goodveflels here,which have
been lately, in some measure, prepared for
lea 5 but they are, at present, without
stores, and have not half their complement
of men. Last week they went over the
bar, ai/d had a mock engagement, but soon
returned ; the bowsprit of one of them
was carried away."
" The frigate La Precietife has left the
wharf, and is preparing to fail ; it is sup
posed, on a cruise.
Huts in the environs of this city, now,
in many inttances, command as high a rent
as the belt houses in town. A small tene
ment of two or three small rooms, has
let, within three miles of the city, at the
rate of upwards of 3001. per annum.
Half of the Citizens of Philadelphia (near
have become inhabitants of the
country ; as for the federal government it
is neither here nor there. Most public offi
ces are flint.
The thinness in the population of the city
will have a tendency to accelerate the re
turn of falubi ;y. The scarcity of our
markets is less felt, owing to that circum
stance.
The humanity of those men. who have
voluntarily Helped forth {e relieve tile fuf-
*
feting poor in this time of general cliftrefs!,
can never be forgotten :—their conduit is
beyond the reach of encomium.
No circumfta'nce has abided more diftrefi
to the present calamity, than the disagree
ment of the physicians about the disease.
Tliey at firft diffeied as to the mode of
cure ; but now it appears they do not yet
agree, in determining what is, and what is
not the yellotii fever. [Gen- Advcr-~\
Mr. Hzillam, one of the old American
company of Comedians, and manager of
the theatre in this city, has been announc
ed as dead, of the yellow fever, in several
New-York papers. Subsequent accounts,
however, mention his fafe arrival in that
city from Philadelphia ; and that lie is yet
in a fair way of acting ether charafiers
than that of a ghofl.
The ingenious Mr. Blanchard,of this city,
lias invented a cartiage, which runs with
out the afiiftance of hurfes, and goes as fail
as the belt post chaise.—An automaton in
the fliape of an eagle, chained to the tongue
of the carriage, and guided by the travel
ler; who holds the reins in his hands, di
retts it in every refpeft. This extraordi
nary carriage, cannot only travel on all
roads, but likewise ascends any mountain
which is acceflible to any common carriage:
Thb diltance it may proceed, is unlimited,
as there are no springs In the cafe, that re
quire winding up.
The Lieutenant Governor of the island
of Jamaica has issued a Proclamation, for
bidding in future all privateers, fitted out
in ports under hitjurifdiction, "from rifling
or plundering the passengers or crews offuch
veflels a"*- may fall into their hands : "Such
proceedings being unworthy of BRITONS,
and by no means intended to be fanctioried
by the Governor's commifliuns ; and be
longing only to pirates and robbers; and
that he Is determined by every means to
d.(countenance and suppress them."
Whether his honour ought not to
have added, that he thinks it a duty incum
bent upou his nation to refund certain Jiolerc
property to the unfortiuiate, itarving re
fugees from Hifpaniela|: j
A waggoner, who a few days since, made
his appearance in this city, was advised by
a gentleman to-take the greatest precaution
in villting tile different ltreets—oblerving,
at the fame time, that the itifefti.ousdifor
der had become lo alarming, that several
had fell dead in the street ! —This filled the
wdggoner with the greatest terror, who,
fixing his hand to his flofe and mouth, to
prevent breathing the malignant air—was
making the belt of his way from the city,
when viewing a gentleman (who unfortu
nately flepped on the rind of a water-mel
on) tell upon his back, lo fright ned t! *
countryman, that quitting his waggon and
horses, he took te his heels, and fled with
the greatest precipitation, to the no small
diterlion of many spectators.
PitijbiirSept. 14. Wednefdny lafE
Mr. Wilson returned to this place from
the mouth of Detroit river, where he had
been with the comuiiffioners The terms
offered to the Indians was, the running a
new boundary line, including a considera
ble extent of country more than former
ireatieshad given, paying them moregoudt
than was ever given at any treaty at once,
and allowing thent a fconfidsrable fuin,
payable in goods, yearly forever. The In
dians, however, spurned at this offer, and
refufed treating oh any other terms thai*
eftablilhing the Ohid as their boundary, but
answered, if you give to the poor people
on Our fide the fivfr what you have pro
posed to us, and a little out of the money
it will take to conquer «s, they will leave
the land contentedly. When the mcfl'age
was firft sent them, inviting them to the
treaty, they talked of the Alleghany moun
tain as the boundary line between them
and us, fbpp6fing, that we were so fright
ened at the defeat ef oiir army, that we
would gladly embrace any offer of peace.
Mr. Wilson seen one of the Indians, who
firft took, and two days after killed, n
Mr. Garl'on, mentioned in the papers ot
the 6th of July last. It was understood
that about [500 Indians were afiembled at
the Miami.
DieU, yeflerday morning, univerfdlly
regretted, Dort. Pennington, of this city.
STANZAS from Pilkincton.
WHY, Lycidas, should man be vain,
If bounteous heaven hasmade him great?'
Why look with insolent disdain
On those iindeck'd with pomp and (late.
The mighty king, the fetter'd slave,
The humble, and the haughty die,
The poor, the rich, the base, the brave,
In dust—without dillinftion lie.
Go —feareh the tombs, where monarchy
r^ft.
Who once the richest glories wore, —
Fled is the grandeur they pofi'efs'd,
And all their greatness is no more.
So glides the meteor thro' the fl'y,
And fwfeps along a gilded train ;
But H>lien its Iftort-liv'd beauties die,-
Dissolves to common air a|ain JExtracts from the Leydcn Gazette.
Leyden, June 27. In our lad we gave an
abridgement of the a£l of accusation in
virtue of which Louis Philippc-Jofeph-
Egalite, ci-devant duke of Orleans, has
been iinprifoned at Mavfeilles, for criminal
process before the tribunal .-ftafclifhed in
that city by the faction of BrifTot and
Barbarous We remarked that this act
greatly refcmbled that upon which was
formed the monstrous procedure against
the unfortunate Louis the 16th, full of
contradictions, confufion, and improbabi
lity. The fame may be observed of the
junificatory pieces, It is well known,
that among those produced against the
late king, there were some so evidently
falfj, and fafeviiated for the pdrpofe, that
the slightest degree of difcernmeat could
at once detest the impoilure. Without
pretending to defend a man (Egalite) who
embrued his hands in the blood of his
sovereign, of his relation, of his benefac
tor, we leave our readers to judge of the
authenticity of the principal pieces, which
are to convidt the infamous Egalite of the
trime of having aspired to ti'yalty. The
firft is as follows, which was brought for
ward at his interrogatory. It is a letter
of the late Miribeau, of versatile memory,
addressed to him who was at that time
called Duke of Orleans * Sir, You
will not think me obttinate if I continue
to afTert it as my opinion, that the king
should give his veto, (negative to 'certain
a&s) a measure you have hitherto much
<iifapproved of. I have uled my endea
vours for this purpose only with a view
to serve your interests. As to the king,
he will continue to increase the number of
the discontented, and will attend to no
thing but thefupport «f his royal dignity
and favouring the different ranks of court
hangers-on. The nation will discover this,
■will complain, and the conclusion will be,
llis death. The execution of our dccrees
■will only be poflponed, however. As you
know his brothers are viewed with an evil
eye, and are absent, you cannot but be a
gainer by those circumstances. If (as I
forefee) there should a terrible revolution
take place, you are a favourite of the
peopk ; and the people cannot and -will
not do otiierwife than proclaim you their
J.ing. As to the reft, it lies with yourfelf.
The Constituting Assembly will be with
you; and the throne, to which you do
rot ascend at the firft explosions of ponu-
Jar infurreftion, will be universally offered
to you. Then you will reign peaceably,;
You may rcckon, fir, on my best affiftanct
■and refpeftful acknowledgments (Sign
ed) Mirabeau.—Paris 4th of March,
4790 "
Interrogatory. What have you to ati.
fwer to this letter ?—Anfwer. 1 never re
ceived that letter: and Milabeau neither
<3id nor could have written it : he knew
that I had no intention of reigning,
that I only wished for the supremacy ol
ihe people.—Did not Mirabeau ever
speak to you in the fame manner, without
fufpedting your wishes and defigis ? You
!fay you have no knowledge of this letter ;
we will therefore read to you another, fol
lowed by your an fwer.
" Sir—Before I address you on matters
that most intimately concern you, permit
me to express my gratitude and fenlibility.
Madame has fully entered intu
your magnanimous views. She publicly
lavs, that such a prince as you upon the
throne, would soon eclipse Marcus Aure
lius, Antoninus, and Trajan himfelf. Only
have a little patience; for things cannot
•go on better than they do. Prudence and
vigour are alike necessary. Agreeable to
your card of invitation, I will go to sup
with you at your Chateau de Raincy,
and will give you a faithful account of the
xefult of the opinions of the different mem
bers of the French legislature. I am,
with sentiments of the highest refpeft,
your moll obedient, See. Mirabeau.
" Paris, May 10, 1790."
uejlion. Do you acknowledge this let
ter to be yours ?—Anfwer. " I recollect
very well that Mirabeau, an'd several of
his fellow members came to sup with
me at Raincy; but the letter which the
Secretary has jufl read, I know nothing
of, anymore than the firft."—" You re
turned an answer to it, however: How
happened that i Here is your own answer 1
viz. " I congratulate you, my dear Mi
rabeau, on your heroic designs. In not
losing fight of my interests, depend 011 it
you will advance your own- If you can
so manage matters, that I shall be pro.
claimed king of France, reft aflfu that dre
I will remember your services. Kings
(it is said) do not know how to love. You
(hall experience the contrary ; for my ge
nerosity and gratitude fiiall know no
bounds. Go on then as you have begun ;
and do not fail to tonfound that knave,
the Abbe Maury, with your eloquent and
enlightened reasoning. I fhqll dine to
morrow at my palace royal. I will not in
vite you, because you have already a ge
neral invitation. When I l?ave the Na
tional AfTembly, do me the favour to fol
low me. I will then tell you some parti
culars of Conde, and his family. lam
your's entirely,
(Signed) Philippe Jofcph D'Orlear.s.
Raincy, May 12, 1790.
Brujfds, June 24. " It was not till the
10th of June, in the morning, that the
firing of the combined forces began upon
Valenciennes. Hitherto little else than a
deftri'&ive bombarding has taken place,
occalioning many violent conflagrations in
the town, which however have been ex
tinguifhed by the garrison, with the as
fiftanCe of the citizens The works for
approaching the place, are rapidly advanc
ing ; but the constant rains for many days
pad have greatly impeded the exertions
of the armies, and besides entirely ruining
many of the works, serve to damp the
spirits of the workmen, and greatly retard
the completion of the second parallel, anol
no attempt to batter the town, so as tc
effc£t a breach, will be made till that is
linifhed. The garrison, on their part, ne
gled no means to make a vigorous defence,
Not a day but they make forties, to inter
rupt the labourers, and too frequently fuc
-1 ced in their attempts. The fire from the
ramparts is at all times the mod severe:
they have already dismounted many of oui
canron ; but the damages are soon repair
ed. General Ferraris, who direfls the siege.
in all his operation- maniftfts the greatefl
knowledge and abilities, united with mud
prudence. Ihe works thrown up rounc
the place are the admiration of every so
reign engineer that has viewed them. On<
of them in a letter to a friend thus ex
prefles himfdf; "If the allies had laic
siege to all France, their works for th<
purpose could not have been flronger o
better contrived, than those ere&ed to re
duce Valenciennes only." The English
commanded by the Duke of York, ani
who make part of the army employed a
the siege, discover incredible ardour anc
bravery. The old antipathy that has si
long existed between their nation and thi
French is now revived in its full vigour
and constantly discovers itfelf on all occa
fions. There is just arrived at the fubnrbi
of Tournay a body of 2000 Englifl
cavalry, to reinf#rce a detachment o
the allied troops, that now blockade th,
fortrefs of Lille. It seems to be the in
tent ion of our generals to attack the camj
of Magdelaine, that covers the last men
tiotied 'city, and much harraffes our Flan
dtri n-ontier. 011 the other hand, the)
write irom Luxembourg, that the Frencf
arts collecting vail bodies of frefli troops,
who menace that province with a new in
vafion. It is evidently the intention ol
Gen. Cuitine to make a diversion on that
(ide to interrupt the siege of Valenciennes,
rnd, if poflible to cut off the communica
tion between the grand army, under Prince
and the Rhine. At Treves,
md in that quarter, they labour under the
noil dismal apprehensions, for fear the
French should be able to penetrate into
hat electorate. A body of artillery, and
mother of infantry haa inarched from
Luxembourg, to cover that part."
Peterjbourg, May 28. The Princess
Louisa Maria Augulta de Bade, intended
;o be married to the grand Duke Alex
lnder, on the 20th of this month in the
;ourt chapel, made her public cor.session
if the truth of the Greek religion, under
the name of Elisabeth Alexiewni ; and
toon after the ceremony of the marriage
.ontraft was pet formed.—The grand fleet,
under admiral Tfchitfchagoff, is collected
in the ports of Cronltadt and Revel, in
number as follows, viz. 8 ships of 100
guns—B of 74—3 of 70—7 of 66—and
8 frigates. They will fail in 8 days, ac
companied by the lesser squadron, under
rear admiral I'cderow, confiding of 50
gun boats, 7 frigates, and 5 floating bat
teries. [ The last, in part, a manoeuvre to
deceive the ignorant : the effective force
of the fleet has lince arrived in the British
channel, to join the English and Spanish
fleets ; supposed on an expedition to the
southern e&aft of France.J
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERFyffIOMS.
September 1793.
Btsrom. Yber. K'eatber
Tut/Jay, ,0. 6; 30. o 64 N. Fair.
C 72 N-E. Cloudy.
Wcdntfday, 777*61 50. ; _ eT N.N.t, Cloudy.
3 o N. Fair.
Tburjday, 12. 6 29.96 58 N.W. Fair.
3 2 9- 9 76. n-n.w do.
Friday, 13. 6 29. 95 57 ; N.W. Fai7.
3' o 7a ] N. do-.
Saturday, 14. 6 30. o N.W. T7i7.
I 3"- S 79 do. •
Sunday, 15. 6 30. o 65 N. Fair.
3 _ 2 _9- 97 80 S. do-
Monday, 16. 6 29. 9 7 o ~57 Clt-ady.
3 29- i S4 S.W. Fair.
I I M ■ 111 I ■ 111 I II , I I, I |
To be Sold or Let,
T( And of this immediate pojjfjjion given. /
HA I handsome, well-built three rtory new
house, situate cn the east fide of foutl,
Fourtb-flreec, near the 1 ndian-Qneen, Philadel
phia. This situation is valuable, being in 2
-cniral part of the city, and convenient to the
sanks and public oflkes. The house is 25 feet
n front, and, with its offices, extends nearly ic«
feet backwards-. It has the privilege of an alic ;
feet wioe* 'I he offices are three stories high,
»nd, together with the house, are built of brick :
nefecontain five apartments, besides a wash house,
ind four of them have fire places. In the dwell,
"g house itfelf, there are nine rooms and tight
r ire places : fix of the rooms are spacious, and all
afhionably finifhed. The garrets are ceiled: the
Hair-cafe is eleganu There is a good cehar under
.he whole, and in the yard a pump.
And to be Sold f
230 Atres ofunimproved land,lß milesjfrom the
thriving town of Harrilburg, Pennfy Ivaiiia. This
.rad lies in a and is said to be very good
farming land. There are one or more mills neat
the premises. The river Juniata is about five
miles difiant ; whence it is boatable into the Suf
juehanna, and thence to Harrifburg. Alio,
A defuable retreat, or farm, in Newtown, the
:ounty town of Bccks, Peanfylvania j contain
m.g nearly 15 acres of land, naturally very rich,
and now highly improved. It is surrounded on all
fides by public streets or roads j and may, with
pre lent advantage, be converted into town lots
that would prove of growing importance. There
is a commodious brick, house upon the premises,
two stories m height, having four rooms cn a
floor, a spacious entry or pafiage throughout, and
* cellar extending under the whole house. It i
.veil accommodated with out houses. About three
acres are occupied by an orchard of the best graft
:d Newtown pippins: distant from Philadelphia
15 miles j from Trenton 9 ; from Bristol 11 j and
s within five miles of the river Delaware. Tht
ituation is extremely healthy 5 the profpefls art
harmingly pi&urtfque, and the nei o hbourhooc
1 fiords a genteel society.
Besides the above,
Tivt corner lets in the town, of one acre each
lie ofteieo for f..le, together with about 16 acres
>f excellent land, half a mile from the town,
jnder the best culture and improvement# Twg
)X three of thele acres are in timber.
Liksnvife t» be Sold•
An eftimablc farm of 53® acres, In the conntv
>f Chester, 39 miles from Philadelphia : 10® acre:
3f which are of the richest bottom. The whole
th,s ,and enjoys a kind, strong and fertile foil
s well watered, and admirably adaptfd to th<
railing of grain and all kinds of (lock ; at prefen
there are nearly 30 acres of made.meadow, anc
20 or 30 more ot watered meadow may be mads
at pleasure r ajout 200 are luxuriantly covereo
With a variety of va.uable timber. Upon th<
prem fes, there are a farm house, barn, See. i
never-failing rtream of good water, and a mofl
produflrve apple-orchard covering aoou: fix acres;
the fruit of a good and lasting quality : the pur
chaser may be accommodated with all or any part
of the (lock or farming utensils upon the place.
The position of this farm is important, lying on
both fides of the main road, and bounded fnuth
frly by the road to Philadelphia through Down
ng-town whence it is distant 12 or 13 milts :
On the north itisbounded by the road to Warwick
Furnace, situate bur a lew miles dillant. At this
>oint, the premises enjoy a capital stand both for
a llore and tavern, and also an eligible fituaiion
tor a village, which would here have some
commanding advantages, and might be an objefl
.0 any gentlemen wifiiing to found an extensive
rnd profitable settlement. On the one fide, it
has a direct communication with Downing's
own ; and with the rich and populous settlement
>f C oneftogo valley on the other, both lying with
n a Ihort ride of the place. There is already a
■narket here for produce at the Philadelphi.) pricei
—the neighbouring iron-works creating a conllant
Jemand. Pleny of good limeftonemay be had
vithin 5 miles of the premises, and a ta
nake ule of it will be conveyed by the proprie
tor if required. In fliort this farm deserves the
lttention of any person or persons inclined tt,
• vail themselves of advantages such as tliofe i.
lofifefies.
The title to the several premises are indifputa
>le j and the proprietor will warrant to defend
hem. The terms of sale, for all or any of the
ands, will be made aecommodating to the purcha
ers. For farther particulars, apply to the fub
criber, »t No. 6, south Fourth-street, or at hi>
lore, the corner of Market and Third-flreets"
Philadelphia.
ROBERT SMOCK.
A "«- ">• la.w.t. f.
WANTED,
IN TWO OR THREE MONTHS
AN APPRENTICE
REGULAR APOTHECART.
A Y outli not Ufs than fifteen or lixtee.;
years of age, with a suitable education and
good moral character.— For further par;i
cuUn euquirt of £ditpr..
DEPARTMENT OF STATE:
t HEREBY certify that I have received
official communication of a Decree of
the National Convention ofFrance, where
of the following is a translation.
Decree of the National Convention of
th 23d ot May, which declares that the
v<. Is of the United States are not com
prehended in thepnrvieu of the decrce of
the 9th of May.
Jhe National Convention after hav
ing heard the report of it's committee
of public fafety, wishing t» maintain
the union eftablilhed between the French
Republic and the United States of A
merica, decrees that the veiiels of the
United States are not comprehended ia
lei dijfojitionsJ the purvieifof the decree
ot the 9th of May, conformably to the
16 th article of the treaty executed the 1 jtli
i)f February, 1778.
A true copy. Le B R UN.
Given under my hand this $th d»y of
September, 1793.
TH : JEFFERSON.
At Private Sale,
To be fold a LOT of LAND,
IN TredyfFrin townftip, Chester cdunty, distant
from Philadelphia about 18 mile*, and from
uantafter road about 3*4ths, contain! ng TWEN
ry-FIVE ACRES. Of this lot about S
acres only are cleared—the reft is woodland, con
chiefly of young Chefnur Timb<r.Tbere arc
>n the premises a Log Dwelling Houf.:, Weaver's
Shop, a double Log Barn, a young Bearing Or
.hard.of 50 Trees, about 3 acres of watered
•lcadowj a good Spring, and a nt ver-faiiing
•>'ream of Water, running /rom a fpoutnear the
• t'Or. Fiorn its ifituation and the gn?at adran
ageof raising the water, it is thought to be an
• iig b'e place a Distiller, Tanner, (Jurrier or
aider. For terms apply near the prremifes lt»
MORDECAI MOORE.
September 5, 1793. Jaw3w
TO THE PUBLIC.
VV HEREAS aR atlac hment at the fa.it of Sam
uel imlay and Nathaniel Imlay, executors
>r" the ieftament and lad will of Peter Imlay, de
:eafed, has ifTued out of the Supreme Court of
Judicature of the slate of New. Jersey, against the
ands of Garret Voorheis, late of th!'county of
Vl'ddlefex, and (late aforefjid, returnable to the
irlt 1 uefday in September, seventeen hundred
md ninety two Notice is hereby given to the
aid Garret Voorheis, that unless he appear and
ile special bail to the raid adtion, judgment
vill be entered against him, by default, and the
ands so attached fold for the fatiifaftipn of such
'f his creditors as lhall appear to be justly entitled
:o any demand thereon, and (hall apply for that
mrpofe, according to the form of the statute ia
uch cafe made and provided.
By oroer of the Court,
April 17. law. iy HOWELL, Clk.
JUST PUBLISHE ioT
\nd to be fold by ThojM as Dobson, Wil
liam Youns-, Robert Campbell,
Mellrs. Rice and Co. and John M'
Culloc'h, No. 1, North Thirdl-ftreet,
A N EXAMINATION of the late pro
ceedings in Cougrefs refpefliug the
jfficial condttft of the Secretary of the
I'reafury; with Observations, &e. on the
tpplication of loans from Holland, negoci
ited under the acts of the 4th and 12th of
iugull 1790. —The price of the above
jamphlet is three sixteenths of a dollar, or
;s 4d. i-2« April 24. 2aw tf
*** The author requests his readers te
:orr e ct the following ERRATA in the
Jamphlet above mentioned Page 5.
tne 11 —2d. paragraph, for Coalition read
Jo.'lijion. Page 25. line 11—2 d. parag.
nftead of Bank directors read "Stock
lohlers."
Seat of War.
FOR SALS,
At M. Carey's Store, Ixß, Mar
ket-street.
A SHEET MAP
Df the French, Auttrian and Dutch Ne
therlands,
In which the progress of tht present IVar
may be traced.
Price three eighths of a Dollar.
And a MAP of the
Three Northern Diftrifts of France, di
vided into Departments—Price
one fourth of a Dollar,
Maps of the United States :
AN V public-spirited gentlemen, pofiefled witll
materials tor correcting and improving the
toaps ol the several states, v\»i 1 lay M. Carey
under very particular obligations, by communi
cating them. He is in immediate want of some
for New-Jersey and Delaware $ of whi#h
he is now preparing maps.
Guthrie's Geography :
THE fubfeription for this work will be conti
nued open, at the present rate of twelve dollars,
till the firft day of November next j after whick.
it will be raised ta fourteen dollars.
August i*.
PR 1 N T S D BY
CHI LD S AND SWA IN E.
AT TK£Jk »fF)CK ho; JO9, HIC Il«(T&S ftTff
WlAll FirTHSTKSKTj
f MILAI JthVNI A 1