By P. FRENEAU: (at No. 209, Market Street) Published Wednesdays and Saturdays, Tlhree Dollars per annum. J
Numb. P. 3of Vol. ll.] WEDNESDAY, August 14, 1793.
NEW-YORK, Augufl 8.
The following ADDRESS was presented
to Citizen Ge:,et ycderday, by the com
mittee appointed foe that purpose op
Tliu: f'l 'v iaU :
To CITIZEN GENET, A/W/?er Plenipo
tentiary from the Republic f France.
CIT I ZEN,
WE are deputed by. and have the hc**nr
to addre*'- you in the name I the Re
publican' of [his metropolis— Informed ol
your a; ival in o. r country, wt. have te<.r:
lons earneltly wilhingto receive you as (lie
reprefeiitative of a nation ftrugg in;* i>i tite
glo kiln cause of freedom and 1 insanity—
of a nation animated by 1<
c<i lpenial with our own, no' 'o exiite tin
v -rnicft fympnthy of frieiidihip and tx
ultation.
It is tins we feel the diftretfe? of youi
country : we lament the blood of patrioi
heroes, and the miseries entailed on the in
nocent bv the ol'ftinacy of pride and the
c ueltv of ambition—Bus liberty it too in
v nable not to be purchafid it any price ;
and we are not to damp the joyinfpired or
this occasion, by recalling to m.ud, vhal
onr own liberties have cod lis. or the im
menlV ftcrifi •e» made by jour countrymei
on the altar of freedom.
We confidently trull, that tmd-?r th'
gu'danee of a benign, altho' unseen arm
tie politic J circumdances of mankind art
rapidly meliorating and improving. Thai
the republic of France is made a most dif
tinguilied indrument in this grest, thi
g»(flike work,and we Ihould do violence t<
our feelinjs u ere we not to seize an occa
fio'i like the present to mamfeft to the
world how mu.h ue are i lterefted in the
•lawn at" univerlal happiness, in the triiimpl
of liberty, and in Its tertain confluence,
the peai e and prosperity of nations.
Through the timely aid ®f France, theft
United states have boen brought to the
full enjoyment of the blefiings of civil li
be; ty.— the Cervices ot vour countrymei
in the hour of our diftref, were t'ill nna
and were chearlully rendered, and tho
despots may ablureUy claim the merit oi
them, we know better to whom the senti
ment of gratitude is to be directed ; ant
we ardently will) that sentiment to reniaii
indelibly imprefled on the hearts of oui
reinoteit pollerity.—We tecognife, in till
defenders of their own the defenders of out
rights ; and in the patriots of France, thf
benefactors of America.
We this day, tender to you our hearts—
and thro' you to your nation our varn
and undlfgwifed uffeftior«—He affiir'd, Sii
we are both re. dy and willing to render
you every ferv.te and aftillame conlifteni
with our reciprocal welfare and with t'ie
duty we owe our country —nay morr
exultingly would we thus ficrifice a libe
ral portion of our cleared interells, coulc
there result on your behall'an adtejiate ad
vantage.
The voice of our government has thro'iti
ex<?cut.ve declared the nentr.i iiy of theft
United States as relative to all acts of hof
tiltiy. We regard thatfacred voice with
attention—But no one is a stranger to the
part all good men take in your revolution,
As the question relates to sentiment anc
principles there is no neutralltj—The vir
ttioas and the wife thro' all rank? of fbci
ety are enlided with you. It is vice, igno
ranee and cowardice that alone oppose the
empire of truth and independence or fhrinli
from thf common cause of human n a turn-
Firm a;'d deady friends you will ever fine
in the i epublic.ui sons of Columbia, whose
mod earned prayer to the great Arb ter o!
jia:ions is, and will be, that the Iberty o)
both countries may remain incorruptible
and immortal—That the world may fee ir
their example and felicity the path of faci
al improvement and the meftiniable prize
of virtuous exertion.
Permit us, « orthv cit'zen, to express tt
you our high elleem for your anc
character, our fincered wiflies in genera
for your personal happiness and prosperity,
and in particular, that you may long fulfil
the duties of your exalted dation so as t<
merit the approbation of) our own heart anc
to feeure the plaudit of your conflituents.
JAMES NICHOLSON Chairiuan.
WHITE MATLA( K, bee'ry
CITIZEN GENET.
jyiinifter Plenipotentiary of the French
Republic,
To the REPUBLICANS of NEW YORK
From the firft moment of my arrival on
this continent, I wiihed for an oppor
t Jliitv to pay a viijt to our rcpublituii br?-
ihren of New York anil greet thi*m with
ihe embrace of fraternal alte£fio;i.
Important and urgeru business has preven
ted me from executing sooner this my fa
vorite design—but it now tills me with the
greatest ji>y that lam at lad enabled to
i.id myfelf in the n. dft ofy u.
\ our address, lraught with t'ie mod ge
nuine principles of republication, and with
that lively fenlibiiity which kindred ftel
ngs only can excite in ihe citizens o one
sation towards those o! haslilleo
n-.y heart with the tei d-relt emotions and
with fenfutions too tlrong for utterance.
I liiall tracfniit to my cou ltryni.n these
; ener< rfftifions ofyour friendlhip, am!
me aflure you that every f/ntiaie k th. i
it co tams-M iil met t on tlklr part v. itii tin
mod cordial reciprocity.
On this joyful! occafron, recolleolioi
might tot indeed to be torturid wuli til:
reinen branec of part fufF.rings, but f
French man, at this critical juncture, tan
not help animating his hopes with the ex
u pie of the log &ft vere trial uftheuti
ctnsofN.Y urkic oftheir gloriou triumph.
May you ei'j y long, \ ery I. ng.the preci
uu fruits of th '.t triumph; may the psace
lie glory, and the independence of the U
lited States, lalt as o.'f as the foil o,
ihichyeu tread. Thefeaie not »'il> mj
ndividnal wilhes, but tflty are . Ifu th
.vilhes of the country I have tne honor t
•epi efent ajid the ha. l exprefltd tnem i<
on in the m»!t unequivocal 111 liner.
In the m dft of her diftreiles, while vv
ire the oniy ally to w how the is cntitlec
0 li.ok for alliftaiue, (lie has preferred en
oviug the fprctacle of your prosperity. am
railing on you to partake of ali the riche
flier commerce, to involving you with
ler in a common danger. Still li e lias noi
:eafed relying oil your friendlhip and on al
he aids which you vourfelves might thin!
n your power to afford. Still the txpeft:
iom you a faithful and a puticluai obfei v
inceof those treaties which the lasrnterec
11 to with you in the hour of your danger
ind of which (lie has fulfilled her part ina
Tianner wort; y ofierftif.
In this rtfpecf. i cannot interpret Oiher
ivife than yau hive none the declaration i>;
four government. They mulf know thai
he 1f r ct perfoi niahce of treat it s is th«
jest a <1 fife ft pff! ..y, th«y muff know ilia,
V om faith a'o le. can iufiirf refpe£t"b lit)
;n a nation ; that a jJu!illa:iiinous condu(l
provokes i-.,fule:ice,aw!bungs upon a conn
:ry, thnfe \ ery d ingers which it weakl)
laeans to avert.
There is indeed bn. too much rrafon tc
fear that yi u are involved in the g in r"
torifpiracy of tyrants .ijc» "It l.be. ty. 'I htj
nevei wilt, t!;ey n >er tan .orgive y i
For having been iht' tirtf to proclaim tin
jiht of ni in. But >ou w ill to ct tiii ir: u
, fpect >"U, by puif. ■' i« wit • tirn n f tin
amy path which i co .fiftent with y ur na
tional honor and dignity.
J he cause of France is the catife of al
mankind, and no nation is more deeply in
:t relied than you are in its fuccef . What
ever fate awaits her you are ultimately tc
Ih re. B:.t the catile of liberty is gre.it
and it (hall prevail.
A d if Fiance under a despotic yoke ha
1 een abie so fucccf fully to atfert you
rights, they tail . ve. again b? eudangrrc«
while (lie is at liberty, to ex i t in y< u
Cupport, that powerful! arm which now
defies the combined efforts of a whole
world.
Accept my moll grateful thanks s o
your kind is i i es for my pt rfonal happi.ef
May Frame, may America, may the citi
zens of New York, be hajp>, and your
with fliall be fulfilled.
CrjsET.
From ihe CHARLESTON City
(. AZETTE.
FEW principles, at 3ny period of the
world, have ever been more perverted
and diflorted, t-han liberty and equality
have been since the late revolution in
France. The French have avowedly
taken them for the bads of their republic ;
and, finely, a better foundation a repub
lic was never bwilt upon, than that which
fccures equal freedom and equal rights tc
■11 mankind. The enemies ot the French,
however, are eternally laying hold of
these terms, and are writhing and twilt'yig
-hcin tor the purpose of rendering con
emptible that gallant nation, at a time
when Ihe is glorioudy (Iruggling for the
rights of mankind. Freedom, fay they,
is only a li e ice for the unprincipled rab
ble to do wh t they please, in open de
fiance of ali law, erdci a;~-d government >
j*d equality, is levelling all the offices
snd powers o f society, f. om the highest
and i nportanc, jduvvn to the lowell
and molt iiifignificaut giving equal
authority to nil, lo tile utter deiiru&ion
of all subordination. It is dividing, fiy
r 'ley, the property of ,the rich among
the poor ; and, in ffiort, authorizing
.very fyieues of anarchy, robbery and in
jnftice, to the ruin of the community.
Mid tints they tauntingly exclaim—lf this
je liberty, and that equality, good Lo c
defend us from lucli prinriples 1 fron
fiich a country i and fitch a kind of govern
ment!— Dcfpotifm itfelf, with all iuchains,
s preferable.
In this manner are these kind of peo
ple conltantly going on, infilling poison
ii the minds of the credulous and tin
vary, and rendering inimical, t® France
ii.d lieedom, ma y . ail honelt mind,
■ huh, but lor fitch bale ad unworth)
li'iu.it'o is, would |>,low with rapturous
loiight, at the pleasing profpeil which be
,n> to dawn upon the world, by tnt
.lorious catifj ui which the French art
i>w enaag d. It i , tieiefore, of funic
inporiance to the catife of freedom, a'
veil a- jiiftice to the Gallic nation, tt
vateih- i a ter ii if. true point of view
iiul to define, with foine degree of pre
uiini. what is meant by th.it liberty anel
Itijitty which are liie obj ch of their pre
ent arduous contest & which have been fc
mull ;!§• butt &; ridiculeuf the enemies oi
efloilT, and tiie jriends of royalty ant
lUloci'iicy.
Liberty, as opposed to flavcry, i- fj wel
iideillood. a id istin-me which has beei;
' ably difculled by gre; t men in all ages,
hat it appears almolt uiineceflary to de
ile it: nor would lat this time have at
cmpted it, hut that it is, in the present cafe
omieited with equality. Belides, un
oniufled with equality, it is a genera
em;, and may He applied to particulai
.la lies and jirdei s of men in society, in
■xclttlion of others : as, for inftince, the
ibeitie» and privileges of the nobility anc
.lergy, eic. which tor the greater part,
n moll countries, have been coiueflion;
roil, nmnarchs Jo their favorites, from
.vhich the great bulk of the nation, oi
he thbltaiitial yeomanry of the country.
iav t excluded. But the liberty
A'null is the grand t bject of the Frentl
■ volition, in duett t outra-diftinilion tc
(i I tiled privileges, is no other than the
•H.ib.iJiiHient of the natural and origins
rifhts of mankind, so far reltrained bj
iun.an laws only, (,-i.d ro further) a:
i:) be netcflary arii expedient for tht
t eiai advantage and nappinef* of the
ho i which bringj me to conlidei
E | li■ ay : and it is this that gives at
I'liiii'iiiii li e to liberty, ai d enliven:
he Ijcred si me. Very little att*ntioi
i) hiftoiy will inform lis, that evei}
.ountiy in Furope for upwards oi twelv<
tnii lies p ft, liave groaned under a feu
lai drip- tilhi, more or less rig» ■ u , ac.
.oidi: g .o the change of times, the wil
if mor.aril't. or tl e <iegree of civiliza ioi
jl Hie inhabitant?. Flit however they ma;
infer illume tnmgs, yet all agrte in om
OI lit. to wit. exclnfive c>rders and rank
n fotiety. which erjoyed exclulive prl
'ikges, exemptions mid immunities, frofl
ill il< the great bulk of every nation
lowever il 1. rving. were totally and tit
eny excli tied. To these cl< ITes W men
II turners, offices and p ..ces of trust an<
o. tide ce, both civil mid military, wen
jtliowed. Tiiey pof .lied all power ani
mthority ; and as i.ll the lands were di
.ided among them, the great mal's of tN
aeople were doomed to perpetual sub
nillion and vassalage ; they cultivated tin
ields for tlieitfuperiors, drudged for tliei
?afe and convenience, and adminifterei
a en to their luxuries and extravagancies
and, in return lor all this, they were onl>
permitted to draw a scanty fubliftence f<
hemfeives and w retched families; whil.
j titled nebility and high handed arifto
cracy, lorded it over them, as if the gre;.
and iißiverfal father of all, had only Icim
ed them to be fublervient to a few loid:
us the creation.
In the loin ation of this fvfteni, there
fore, and during its progreis through ft
rnai'iy the natural and original tight.'
i f .Kari were for ever kept out of view
in order to eftabiilh ai d support
their unbounded authority, f«ui d it nccef
ary, in process of time, to make large
ronceffions to this nobility or unftcci aiic
boi.y, to confer nianj privileges on thtni,
and to confirm them ail by hereditary luc
ceilion in their families. The nobility, on
the other hand, in wdsr the u.nii i.i.'.)
[ Total Numb. 187 ]
to keep their numerous vassals and oe
pendants in du~ iubordination, it<uucl .c
their inters ft to make upto prince*. ami co
(iipport tneir authority ; nlio in rttu.n,
defended then privilege., .tbles and lienor
ag unit t.ie commonaliy. Tile c Jerky af
terwards came in aid of both, and having;
gained an 11 abounded doniiniei over the*
minds of uninformed men, preached u?
unconditional fubmiCon and pafiive oh d,-
ciice, who m the,r turn got large and
clufive priv .lege- trom p, ~U e -,. also, as Hit ,r
i e»ard. A.iU thu, u.d Kmg<, nobility
a.:d clergy all conlpire, not omy to a.cr -
ami eftaohlh tiiefe exclulive privil, gja-.a
ranks m society, but a:fo to in.-polT upon,
and e.iflav.- a (illy world, One- itep more!
am; all was binned: J n th.- early ft, j s
of the h uda. Iv.lem, ihe tenants or v-i" 3
reromp. nled.s» the.r lords fo r 'be of
their lands, by military ki.Lts, bv re
pairing rou id their iland-rds when ,e
---qn.red in tint ot war, and in f,,1, ,a K their
battles with each ot.ier, 0 . te pi ince
to whom th V were all united as a nation.
1 h f- military services, j„ tinu. mrf
tomini.ted for by payment of a Cum of
money. This gave birth to the -i'e <f ■ er
c. nanes 111 the army, and that to t xatiou :
ai.d 111 molt countries in Europe the k'-i
acquired a right to taxation, that en. b. d
them to keep Handing armies, which com.
pleated the despotism of £ urate.
France had for ages groaned under thrir
opprelhons; her best blood and t. e..i- c
had been often spilt and txpwdetl in pur
-111 nig the ambitious prej t a ol i.r kin-s
in the ellab:,fi~n,ent ol tyi an s in demef
tic disputes and wars between a hi-h hand
ed an 1 ambitious nobility, or in purftii r
the Inperllitious perfect,ti<n< an« r.j ■ ,7
01 the clergy; in a j) which, the i,u A, of
the nation were never conndersd. i . «l.icU
they were never confuted. I, v. a< there
lore under these imprcflions, and (martinr
under these tyrannical oppressions tha .-v.
lightened Frenchmen boldly and iiar'iliv
came lorwaid, and. by one (Iroke. broke
down and at once d. ftroyed lhi old. a -
iw ntble feudal iyrair:jr which I,.mi so lot
k«pt men,n ignorance and chains; ai:d,
in the 10 matijn of their new c.inftiti.tion
nude them introduce their frmou d.uee
lor liberty a d equality, which puts --,11
men upon a tooti;;g, opens the door of pre
ferment in the (late to all el.-fies uithent
diitiiu on. and gives to ever) one an equal
t'-'l 'V 3 , n ' 3r: ,n the S ,,v ei '.ment under
which he lives. No talents, no i .'n' ry
among the lower order of men, according
to the old d fpotiftn, cnuld ever b.ing
them forward in any pub|i< 1 ..tin-,, . r
make them pecu'iarly'ufeful to the'r coi n
try. Hi:; ;«> e.jual.zinn lji . 11,. every
P •raWeemoiir. penaent is given to abilities
Stn nsandinduitiy; nd it villnotbeow:,
tobirth,rank 01 family in :u'u t b;.. •*. 1 i*-
rit only, by which men will life t< pre f - r .
ment among the Kren h. The 1 ackl s
uh ch lor ajes have enthralled the hi > 1
Blind ill reiigion, are also broken alliini.cr
nyth.it universal toleratien, which is at
tendant on this Lberty and equality : b'go
try and fnperftition ai e levelled to'the diilt.
and all men can now woril.ip Gcd iu the
manner 1110 ft agreeable to their conven
es, without a dread or tear of the fortius
M the inquilition. This, then Meflrs.
Printers, is tie nature t-f. and these are
ome ot the many advantages attending
upon the liberty and equali'iy which the
Trench have introduced into their confliiu
'on, in contradiaion to the old uij. flai d
II quitous fjftem, which roiiferrn. tvei jr
hing 011 the noblelle and c lergt, w h It- tie
great bulk of the natioi were 'denied the in
d c onlidered as as inferioi fpcc cs, and an
.'leer ct beings only fit to ciouch and to
obey. Surely, then, the free born mi-< 1
• light to exult at it, ard to thank heaven,
that there it one c< untry »t least in I v.iopa,
who have dartd to vindicate and fupporc
he rights of pian. ai d libet ty and equality.
Wow they Will finally iViceed, and how.
ai Ihe influence of these principles may
ammaie other nations to fe.itiw tl en ex
ample. time only will determine. But
tha: nib great ami glorious uo<km?ypo na
and extend to all enfiaved and o,.pr'el!ed
eouiurics lill universal liberty anci equality
Jiiall prevail, is the. earrflt prayt. of
At 1 tend tc L.Lt I*y a' c! Equality.
Fiom the NEW-YORK JOURNAL.
/V S me p: efmt £ia is big v ith rromen
-1 totts events, which in fticcelfi. n un
io!d tl.t tide Ives t3 our view, and uuplay
J < .1 auxiliary tiaits in a perlpiciious point
nHitbt.it is 1 o unpleafii.g t: Ik, to ex
ittUi a lilt,!, u« ihep e :ea fcr cuinveftigition: Among the de
tail of clie ye*ar we may noiice t.ie opim
*» s. which h.ive been given by big men, on
big queflious. I n the order Oi rank [tu.i.i i
iu, .nyfelr to my oa a co.i:ii«-y) rtands.tiie
Prelident of'the Us>'ted UUtes. His ojaiti
0i is detailed In twe pro Viiniuo.i. Tie
second ill order, is the cuii?f juttica ol ine
V.iaed State:.. One of his m-ms is, that
a nate (t.ie poor def rtcd . los O orgia
'is tTie rnvrkj is liable to b . ofecuteil by
c.iizens of another date. O i tins opinion
1 w >uld afkihe iluei ju.fue, vn.it the h:
< ,n*t of the United ->t..tes .s toil ■ with tiie
ft iCe oi Georgia, if(groa ing iii'.wC.- an lu
ll ui war) (he liiotiid prove infoivent? ("en 1
t i.'legtlianire to jail ' til :t v.i:i ioc pay
oe;>ts, they may ob.ain the bend >i an act;
jii'ia an execution •igairdl tht etrealu
ly? There is no mo..ey in it — i isi.ais-
J'eretl through the unpolt to the led., al
% .nineiit.—What then? pay the debt out
of tin- federal treafury—d.;„ult the citi
zrns with the i.). Oil} acta cy ot til* ir repub
lican form. and abrogate the state govern
ment !—Another opinion of ih'.-ciiietjuftice
i■, that the old debts due to Bi iti Hi f' ibjects,
miilt be paid; tin> is literally :' • you honed
wtii«s w loin 1 775 and 1776 excllang.d
you »«fld and .i. ver, tor paper money, to
1::. !\ the army acting againit Canada, now
t<cci»e your reward; let expenlive suit»
take place again!! you ; let your liitle re
in lining property be torn from your wi
•■i.-i \'s ind orphans, to the rapacity of
Brito:fi, who daughtered you 0:1 your
peaceful plains! I hope the chief ji ..e
wiil give Ui his opinion in relbt& to the
• <l?;iredations, wi.ich our coil.® rce dai'y
fullers from the piratical cruizers ol New
Providence, and other fancforutiis ( r the
liritim ministry. A d,'! could with he
wo ild h. Co obliging as to give hi-, opinion
ffif". ■ . ! the <leteacioii or our northwelt
t, ■ ~: t...and conduct of the Britiib court,
i : . f, ;: - iihing arm;, ammunition. cloathing
&c. f.c. to the svho are iiictli'jiuly
w a.t.ng our bio d and treasure. 1 J»i s he
w< Uid he the iiio e ; be to do. lime he h .d
a Ik.: d i . the formation oi ihat claitfe
Avli.cU i mediately refpeft- them. 1 could
air., w;;ii he would give ws his opinion, re
1m t. me neorots, which the Brit.lll car
i'i 1! v.. h '.'.icin when they were forced tu
a r.' our country. 1 could further
\ Li vvoul Igve u> his opinio.; 'whether
i- m d not be be ter, to Hop the building
if .... p i. cts in tiie »noil= for a little
\ ; e, a.'d take nine of themoney -which
t y will c->:t. a <l'fe lire the frontiers by
; aain of :'oi ci—aid our lea port ,by flit
f. er.t for.ti.'icatior..! —My opini oil i.>, that
i: onr coimnerceWdeilroyeii, our revenue
■V ~ be deflroyed, and tbe great federal
head will then have to resort to a direct
1 ip'tatiim tax, tor the I'upport of all Ihe
, ■ b di'adm--, &c. &c. and I'orths coin. le
ton of the pal ces on the Pi.tow mac. An
o. er problem (larts lip before us—it is,
\ ether if thep el'enr nieafures arepui
fned infUad ot milking the cow. we wil
1 01 be a great as.—goaded, kicked, aiu
: uSV .•' t very }uhn Bud who cumcs acrofi
, i.id mat, in 'he end,-whether we will
not be robb d cf our mo .ey by pi Iteri 115
cru f rs on the high sea , and deprived o
oar liberties by dehgning men in hign tla
tions among us ? Vve Piall fbon be ' itour
etl with, the opinion i:i tlie Chiet Juit c —
Whether a treaty, made with Loin> XV I
is in force under the free governmeni
which the Freich +~-i tow t
liiainhiin. The next opinion will he, v he
ther, as we are not bound to observe the
treaty because the French have dell. oycc
the Baltile, ai d immolated their tretclie
rous king, a hued tarv king wi :ild not b
better to adniundei the affairs oi America
than so 111 uj. peity ft. tes.
P 11,1 L A n i' LPHI A.
Wednesday, August 14.
T Pe'it Deitioc at, wa- seen last Wed-
and Thui fday foiith ol Cape Hen
litpeii : they brought foitie American vtf
fel; to—The Captains of the br.gs
a id Venus, cojnplain ot fon.e of ihe peo
]de on board the Democrat, being infoient,
but do not tharge the Captain of hei
with ai.y bad behaviuur-
On \N ednefday lass, the m Her, m*te,
and two of the i'ailors belonging to an A
inei-ican vefi'el. juit arrived from St. Do-
Kiin 'o, were appreiicnded, 011 a charge oi
hni.:gbeen aciual y tonceri.id with tht
l>ew Providence pr vateer's men, in plun
(! rrng the ur.forcu'natt hrcnib p Lc ngers,
who had taken fane uaiy in t. e veliel, .inc
ok peeled their pro.ect 01/. a: Jar as ic was
11. turai to give it, (ill ing the p fiaj-e tr
j. iiadelphia. Son eot these u.vc bee/:
committed to jail, mdwil be tieatid a'
t}ie law.directs. 1 he proofs against then
w- re principally confined to the discove
ry of go d waiches. and'other property,
belong'i'g to the p.ffengei S, Vh th were
detedied in their (heits. We hope for tie
}~ nor ot human nature, that it iheie ar<
any perl'ons in the 1 n ploy of the Initcii
Site», who could he guilty of fuih co I'uct
they may be very tew in numbt r, ai d that
iJtinifliment will quickiy follow conviction.
The i iju y do.-e by the New Providerce
priva.eer>, to the Au.can lias
been To glaring of late, that it scarcely ie
cjui.es much ni»rc to be said to paint it n
the il.u'Kett col urs ; however, as Ca) t.
People.,of the schooner Maria, who arri* •
eti here IHe Tnm fday from St^jMarks in 2S
d*ys, Hirmilies-us with a:»lre:u narrative.
w* will lay it aifu btfore tlie pub"l.c in cine
time. «.
it is mentioned by a pei'fon from New-
York, who was oil board t ie Ambtif adt
during her engagement with t.ie Bofto .
that Cape. Bmup.ird was bull y employee.'
i 1 directing the management of h.s nu.ii.
deck great guns during the greater pai t oi
the engagement, and nut 011 his quarte.
deck (is mentioned in a foriaer account)
w here t ie coiifiaut appearance of a iora
lljinder i J clue* hi- more of ceremaniom
p trade in it, than le.ll utility.,*-The per
foa in white who uas lien daring the
whole engagement on tjj| round h'orlV, is
said to be a FrencM.boy, w'i 1 sung ■•nil
danced the Marfeillls M arch, a.id Cairn
as lo 1* as the si i.ig K.lied. which was o:e
houi and 35 min.ites. The engagement,
fays our informant, w ,:s close ami hut. and
would 1.1 ave been Hill ctr/'e-, hai the Eng
liiunian's llOLiiach been for boarding—
" Close as a lover to his m.lircfs dear,
Close as a pillory to a rafcai's e ir,
Clole as a miser to a b<n>, ot Joes —
So close hung Ambu/cadi to BofiotSs nose.''
A French (hip, the Commerce, of 400
tons, from the illand of Mauritius, when
in the latitude of Madeira, being informed
of the war bet ween France and England,
but that Portugal was neutral, put into
Porto Santo,where (he tt as seized asa p; t.
and fc t into Madepia. Htr \\ a
said to be worth ~(>,gco£.
Late advices from Cape Francois, fay.
th it the few unfortunate white people
that were iefc there, have been ei.her Un
led or driven aw ay. The Aiulattocs wert
in full pofi'rllion of the place.
Intelligence appears in a New York
paper that all the b. itilVpo ts 111 til * Wefl
Indies are opened to American vessels,
to carry in all kinds of provi'ions.
Salt provisions in particular are imich
wanted, and the prices very In 4:1,
beef from 6 to-V" Ri itifli llerling pi®>ae
rel. pork 8 and >)£. ditto. The veryfilifli
price is occaGontd by the great supply sent
to the Kuropean powers in alliance with
England againlt France, a3 the fait pr<-\ili -
ons that were ufnally lent to the Kritifh
Well 1 ndia illands are sent to these pow
ers. So much for the Engli.li joining the
European powers against France.
Ac a meeting held in New York I all
week, of a number of citzens, in upturn
ance of public notice given inAewf; per
a nun ber of resolutions were pafitd, ex
prefiive of their appi obation ol the iede. a
proclamation in favour of neutral it — the 1
determination to support the cwfrnTOgif.
trate in executing the proclamation, ir
preventing Oilier.can citizens from enter
ing on board privateers, &c &c.
Signed by Nicholas Cruger, Chairman.
[From the Baltimore Evtr.r g P?J! t of
Augull 5.
" This day arrived here the Enig Sue
cefs, Captain Joleph M'Cammon, fron
Tobago: ne fai that be was boarded fc)
the pr.ia ce; Ciiiz 11 Cenet, off the Cape'
of Virginia, and i.e. ted in a niai tier thai
did they by 110 111; ans becon e the fubjt d:
ot the Ftench Repubi c. The above bri<]
being the property of ome American citi
zens in Baltimore,and allies of the French
u it not aftonilhing to observe the little
refpett paid so our flag, by those very peo
le who have experieiKi-d the generolii)
md friendly assistance of the Baitimoreans
to a degree beyond thtir utmoil expecla
.ibn. Rouse then Americans, futier lit
fu«h i fults to pass unnoticed, from any
power whatioecer irom a iriei d or at
■nemy —we re able to defend uur right. l .
nd h >ve spirit enough to allert, and die
11 defence of them. —Let us not be impo
sed on—while we (hep in indolence anc
inactivity, the enemy vc ill come and fur
irife u — let lis remember, t'li \Z to be pre
, ai eel for war is thefinelt & belt method tc
;'erve aladingpeace."
[From the fame paper of Ar*. 7, nddref
led to the id tor of the Baltiin.it
Eve/.i' g Pnji.
Your anoynious correfpmdenr, in yes
terday's Eveuing Poll, after observing.
'• 1 hat the brig Success frcrn Tobago \\
Boarded by the Citizen Genet privateer,
off the Capes of Virginia, aril tie..ted in a
manner that did net beionie the fufej. ot
•>f the French Republic," Sec. calls 011 tlif
Citizens of America to "rouse, and fuffer
no insults—to allert aril defend their light
est! w bile they (leep, in indolence and in
activity, the enemy may come and fur
pi ife them," &c.
St.me of your readers, who have been
ever reaoy to rifle their lives to dejend
iheircruntry, and redress its wrungi, hope
they inaj not be thought to call in cjiii ftion
the veracity of your coi refpondeut, when
Ihc} beg to be informed, though your ufe
ful paper, of the particular inlults offered,
ai.d 11 jurie- done to the Brig Success,
which weiefo uhbecomi'iig in thefubjetts
••i the French Republic, in crdet thut they
may judge for themselves, cf the nature
uid oegri eoi the offeree, and the j r I'm"i
-ty of complying with your correspon
dent's exhortation , ; to route," &.c.— 1 !:ey
also hope, that they may, with,utderoga
ting from tie res, eft one to your corrcf
pondent, enqui c .1 ne be »f Aim d republi
can'priiciptes, well'attached to our
government —any information that iuay bt
convenient tor yon to furnifh, refpeciing
:hele particular.., wiil oblige many o, your
eadcrs."
La(l Saturday, 10th of August, being the
Anniverlary ofti e day on which the
#nal Convention of Fiance patied tneirre
folute decree for the entire abolitioa o'
royalty, the fame was celebrated in thi
city by a number 0! Patriotic Societies,
and the morning wa» u leredin bv the tvi o
French triga;e<, La Noimande and La
Precieufe, each of" which veil; Is wert
beautifully decorated with a gieat vaiic
ty of colours.
This memorable day mult call to our
recqlle£tion the- bo d and manly conduct oJ
the Congref of 17"6. when thej dtclarec
th"]nch-pe! derce of the Lnit 1 stales ii
he face if a powerful enemy: but the
NStivnal Conw .. 11, 011 t!*e 10thof . J i gust
i~92, wei e 11 1 lnort 1, i r thev had
been threatened with indiv uuai aliallin<ti
on on that day, fro 1. the keen oi
the many thotifaud enen'ns i« fteeih in
tbitlutked 111 I'. 11 , and were ready at a
lignafpgive-ii. to have ruiicd forth on tin
Patriots, and to have perpetrated a crimc
asb'ack a* that whkb w. committed on
at Bartholomew's day. But the king,
who knew the plot,did not iem >: - firm to
liis trull. He had betrayed tl.c dt>
jhy running away, and n. won the 101 . f
August he betrayed the Arittocrats _nd
Monarchists themfe.ves ; .01 af.tr havin>
Uiffered them to form tk.irp'ut whtnall
their hcllilh schemes were 01. the poi tol
being putinto exeiutian—oll that n.omeiit.
the heart of Louis relented, er at :eatl
c landed, or perhaps his peifonalfear ;ot
tile better if him so far, that he had no
longer the courage tu Hand by his party.
He tied to the National Cuavention so.
jji otection, and his fir.lt u orris fpokeii therf
Were, " I come to pre vent a great crilii*"'
'than which words, nothing can turniiii a
S "linger proor that he was acquainted witll
e piot against t 1 Patriots.
The consequence <va; fatal to him, ar.tl
to monarchy. The si eof the Svvir
guards availed but Jittie v, hen opposed to
the (ire of Republicans, it was then that
Frenchmen aboli.: ed ro»ak; and fl.ivei)
together.
Surely, these are fiifficie't grounds fo r
Celebrating a day that may jnlilv be IJiieil
the Anniverlary of freedom to Kurope, a
mucii a. the 4.11 of July is to Americ 1
[ A. D. Advm t'Jjr.
F.xtraH "fa letter from N w-7ort.
" The conduit of your gentry towards
the new minilUf of I'rance, is very ealily
accounted lor, when wc coniid.r the at
tempt that was made, in the general con
vention, to fjihllc us with an Amrenai.
monarchy, to which, the pol ti c 111 views 1 f
certain pe.fous. Jijie, invar.ab y bten di
r.-ilctl, ever line the adoption ot the gene
r l government. I therefore cannot bin
think, that the French revolution is a mi !r
happy event io this a untry, efpcc -lly Ihe
l itter part of it ; that is, the entire . boii
tion of rcgd government, which ought to
have taken plate at the beginning ; and. i
fcel ei e w ouid, had not Fayette and Am.
other of the adherents 10 ri yalty, prev ei t
eil it : Fer, had the F em h cortiaued that
degrading and abominable ba;'ge of deficit
ism, w Mill, by its insatiable thirii for puw er
and dominion, as well as by its nu II inor
-111011 and ufe'efs extravagance and d.flipa
tion.has in poveri(i < d debaled and t rfl..vt(l
sooner 01 j»ter, those nations who have
adopted it ; their example « ould have been
rung to us through all its changes, 'till our
ear;, were rendired callous to the more
manly feeli: gs of lifierty .nd equality, the
very thoti; Ins ofuhi.b v.iiikl liiive beer
jti eated, by the ariiioci ats, w i 1 11 the utinol
contempt aid ridkuie- And Con^rel
would soon, had tliat happened, (for yet,
: fee w hat a majority the 1 y commands)
[ liave rxercifed tl e power i-iven by the firli
p rt 01 the sth article ot tiie 1 tw confiitn
t.o:i, and ne ihou d have hail al! our pro
cefliot>B, and much moie pon pons ones,
witii the regaiia and a felf created nobility
&c.to have trudged throughagain& aga in,
from onefend of the union to the other. In
deed I have heard it hinted, and more thai
once,that Fayette's lall v dit to this ctuntr. ,
was, partly to confultcertain
what mode of government they thought
nioft eligible, aid th.-it they advised a li
ir.ited monarchy, as it is atfurdlv cal'td ;
for monarchy hai Ho lt>aiti. If so, it i not
a[ -.11 furpi ihrg tliat tlii-y difapprcv eo t-f the
rre lent perfect and glorious revolut .oil.
in which all usurpation and distinctions,
, ave bi en wifel) 1 ejected, and man, as
Paine fays, i- considered 111 his proper and
highest • hi.r,f.ers, is fie but a good citizen.
10 the (.rawing of the moiuy from Hoi
lamfto tl is country, when it was lo much
w anted by the people to w hem it was due,
nr. d due -with s utiti.de, mult be acknow
ledger 1 , not only as unfriendly and tin
grateful, but greatly inimical to the repub
lican cause in genei a!; for, :here can be 1 o
that 1;.uu.~ the I'reach be overpow
ered by that cursed combination ef digni
fied villainy, all the republics in Europe
»iul America will, ihortly ftiare the fame
fat'e.
'• How easily may the viell-born, in this
country. notwithstanding the moll of them
were burn befrre tiieir efiatts, and, what
is yet m.oreparodoxical, tome of tlivm, be
ore their fathers, tor they cannot, to this
lay, tell iroin v horn they I a e descend* d,
:u< n unicate a hint to the regal, or rafcaJ
y, it you like it better, combination, to
nterdid our trade, by laying double duties
ar prohibitions, &c." with threats ofinva
ii,i. in cafe of reluf.il to adopt their mode
if government, and that they, the well
b'.rri, will co operate with them here, b/
.rying up .1,0, aichy, ai d ridiculing repub
ica 'ism, which w itii a lew millions oi nio
ev f. om Eli ope, | roperly applied, as it is
aid the Britifli lniniftrv are no .v attempting
II tilis colli! ly, in . nicr to detach us from
he French iiuere':, together with a
1 agnation of ti ade, a langui Tor difinclina
:on in government to i ppofe the change,
md the ;>i ilfocracy generally in favour of
t ; w h tdo \ou rrally imagine would,from
hejMefe t tj |earain es, be the consequence
it ihtle a ul fucli l.ke manoeuvres, Sir ?
Docs it ri»t appear practicable?—does it
inr appeal probable ?—nay, does it not il
iii< u: i to a ceitainty, that eitherthi ,
!c nrhe; inch gaii e would be playcu
orll. pi.rpoie? Such a game has
ic.u j ij t ci, d what has been, maybe
lone gain—Do "t k oft, il not all, the
ilea ejuit n w, thai ufurptd the auihotny
>f fevjei a! ol tiie Ih'te , in 1787, and who
I:tc.7 pred to ema'-l m-feiy and feivitude
hi their c> 'intrv, by ell- binning a kingiy
;overnnieiit 'it? And would not he who
•.'nrp.d.ii- authority oi'oi.s state uli p
1 authority of all, could he do ii v.i h
«': unity ? Are we to be intiii'.ulaito or
:ajolt 1 into an unnatural ■ nd sal irnhf
rrtii'e,tou ai d our generous friends, * d
•lis for fe. r <>! rffending out iworn em
it es, v. ho k.nt been liii. mating the li -
iians ever 11 • ■ peace, and furiiifiiiiig
,':« m with arm ic. to murder us ? Their
lumanity for L s u me: e hypocrily : It
s oniy as a kinj; they really regiet his lati,
i:i.l thai too, merely as it favoured their
ag.uilll this country —iio they re
e- the 1 01.f. ■ds that l ave fallen by
neans of hi fchenies to effect a
•mi er-rev ulution, after hav .pg fw orr. to
!t l- ul ilie conitilutioD ? T hey are fearce
y ever lat.-tioned the ftcend time, unless
he tojiveevl -.t to the v.Gory of their
Hemes, the chfpots—Does not tint test
.heir humanity ?
" I conftfs that I am not so sanguine a
iout the Irish as you appear to be—l am
afraid that their leaders (some of whom
ire of the ai iflr.cracy) will be brought iff
iv the government, and-the great bo- y of
lie people hft : tl.c nier. yof their op
, 1 l!*' . And onhi they altwmpt a ri'vo
mi m, I doubt tl e.r being lidm lenny pre
>ai ed, tho' I ey have had 11111 enough 1»
cue every tni: g r quiiiie for the pur
loie, if ever they intend it.
• Nor am 1 altogether in fetitiment with
00 , o.icerning the ".nglilh. It is tru .as
-.) 1! fay, the itorm may, by some unexpe£te<J
vent or other, burll on tlu r heads ? but
t appears to tie, from a number of their
i ipers which I 1 ave lately f. e;i, t • t go
/eriment hn been beforeha d with the
-teople, and is as lining hll <i- das ever it
.vas. The means ni..tie use of are certain
y desperate, as tliey destroy the mcrais of
he people, as well as the liberty of the
>res—But what care mii.iflers and kings,
t ihey ran hui railemoney Hi ths
lation ?
" 1' lides, there is another capital misfor
une.attending that people, wiiirh is, thit
hey are as mtuh deceived by those i™
ivhom they confide, as they are by those
«ho opprsft tje:n. The former talki ig of
nothing more than a mere parliamentary
reform, which is just what the latter uiln,
f there mull be any ; for then the parlia
-1 eat. alias miniflry, continue onini; otent,
can, as time and opportunity offers,
etracl twice as much as they before paid
lit. It is all mere illusion, and the truth,
~ that neither ihe parliament nor any o
ner ordinary legiflat'ne body h s aright
o fay how, or in what maniu r a nation
all be«overned—That rtftsentirel-with
lie majority of the citizens, who ougt.; to
.etermine it by a regular conflitiition, ob
tained through ihe medium of a national
convention, fieely and fairly chosen by all,
»iving t! e| arliament a power to legifl.'e
greeahly to the general will, thu; exj.ref
td, and not otherwise. As well might olcl
,'luio pretend to reform the infernal re
ions, a parliament pretend to reform it-
Vlf-—Let fafls speak for their conduit—
, ve they net reformed their duration
rom an annual to a septennial one,and. by
jue n eans or other, excluded the g eater
aart of the inhabitants fnom chooling 1 w
iieing cln fen ? 1 expect LouisLapet wo, id
lave made just fucli a reform, h d the
i ieiuh nation permitted him—But i.either
the Outs, 110 more than the In;, v. (h ihe
people at to understand gov? nment,
& much lels for them to approach the po
itical Sancli in Sanflorun:, left ifiey (iiouid
d -fi:e the ten pleoi Alanmou, by cwriailing
lie profits 011 which tlie royal company of
pickpockets Ipbfilt—And I confef to you,
Sir that I never cou'd fee the public utili
ty c-l that i-a. c cf the new couiututioowhich nutheriies to propose a
mendmctlts to it, and leaves it to the fame
bod/to determine the mode of ratilica
tion, tkc. All legislative bodies have more
or less of a corporation spirit in them, that
is,court intly grasping at privilegeor power,
at the expe'iK j of their conlfiti.ents' privi
leges; and but a very lew of the members,
if a IV, are the lirlt who feel the effects of
bad la\vs, ami, of course, not the molt like
ly to propose the belt amendments, for the
benefit of the people in general. I was al
•ways a i advocate lor a general govern
ment; but wished the rights and liberties
of individuals as fully ascertained and de
fined as poilibie, which have not been at
tended to in that just and equitable man
ner that the French have theirs, tho' the
powers of Oongrels hai/e, and that with
the greatelt plentitude, and, in some in
fiances, where it was not requisite neither.
u Is not one of George's pretences tor
attacking France, a very curious one, that
is, to preserve ''a balance of power.' 1 He
certainly can not have recovered his few.fes,
iTever he had any. Should none of hia
nurses or tutors have ever told him (for
kings are above reading) "that the mon
archies and pritic'palities in Europe are tar
superior in number, wealrh, territory and
forces, to the republics ?" TNay, Kuili j
alone, has more territory than they ai;
h a:id. has been Jniii, to contain fevera
Hiill'ons «f inhabitants more than trance.
•- i now come to your observations on
the President's proclamation -.—Who coult!
have advifedit ? Is it pollible that such fen
tiilients can be in unison with the feelings
of true republican*! fill ? Is it pollible torth £
friends and defenders of this country, ai a
republic, to be alike friendly and impartial
to all the"powers at war, in Europe, when
there is such a felf evident and wicked
combination of the molt powerful despots
a 'iinil one republic, even if the French
nation had never afforded us any affiltance
vhatever ? But when we conlider that it
"was at the expence of French blood ai:d
treasure that we were so happily emanci
pated from British tyranny, how can any
true friend to this country and republican
if n, be impartial to so unequal and unjufl
a contelt ?
" I (hall not fay, that I will not obey the
proclamation ; but I mult fay of a truth,
that it is utterly impossible for me to obey
iwithout doing violence to my conscience
— Vay, would it not be high treason againll
t te rights of humanity to be indifferent to
the fuiferings and oppressions ot our fellow
creatures, at any time, and in all cases ?
And how much more so, to those ot our
b 'It friends, when in the deepelt distress ?
C in any person put the fame confidence in
a vretch who hid endeavoured to r»b him,
and becau'e he would not submit to that,
In I attempted to deprive him of life, li
bi ty, and every thing else that was dear
Co hi n ; and all that in the most dastard,
i i i iii'«»u« and cruel maner, as he can in a
friend whom he has proved so ? Conld the
P.e klent himfelf.do you imagine, Sir ? If
Jie could, he certainly did not in the year
1776 ; for he ordered one of his guards t{
be exectited,for. at mod, oniy engaging in
a conspiracy againlt h'.wi; 110 c that I think
he did wrong in that, the situation of our
affairs required the example—But is not
here a re&al conjpiracy against the rights of
a nation, \.v hich is of much more im
portance th.1.1 the life of" the belt man on
earth, between which there can be no
parity? What right has the emperor of
Germany to appoint a regent for the re
public of France ? Might he not with as
much propriety appoint a regent for the
universe, and of course for this country ?
" It is either idle or designing, «o fay that
we are in no danger from European com
binations, on account of our remote situa
tion. How did Britain, when less con-
Heeled with those butchers »f the human
race, obtain a numerous band of mercenary
assassins, and fend them to this counrry ?
A id Should France be crulhed, with how
m jch more e ife will (he obtain any number
fh.' may require and waft them here, when
th- navy of Francs will be at her command ?
I 1 fucil a lituatioil, is there any power in
E irope 011 whom we could call tor affif
tuce, with the fmallefl hope of success ?
Taere is none, you well know; tor, flioulcl
any be dupoi'ed, they dare not —111 fa£i,
Uiould they subdue France, which may God
avert, what is there to prevent the con
querers pursuing their bloody crusade a
jrainft every republic 011 earth, and eltab
fifhing universal monarchy ? Whereas, if
we aiSfl France in eftablifliing her republic,
{he will always be our natural ally, on
>hom we may depend, as it will be her
true intereff to be connected with us, and
that not only in the way of commerce ;
but in the way of mutual defence and sup
port ag linfl foreign imposition, &c. as (he
has a navy and men, and we have provi
sions and every necessary—Besides, it will
be only adopting a Britilh example, and
that to a jufler purpose than thuy can pre
tend to, for us to endeavour to preserve a
balance of power. Not that I wiih for
war with them or any other power—l real
ly >vi!h for universal peace ; but not at the
r 'que of our own liberties—l disdain such
a leace. Let us endeavour to help our
f. 'ends, and if the Britilh will make war
0.1 Us, we can very ealiiy rid ourselves of
their company at this time ; but not l'o ) if
we fuffer tlieioi to conquer i'ranc?i
''I sxpeft your addressers to the procla
mation are composed chiefly of rigid Fpn
copalian (Quakers, anil European lnsr
chants, or, 111 other wort's, tories, witli a
few office hunters and dependents on o'iice,
_;c. This is tailed the sense of the nation !
i 4 Tiie more I reileet on our frienu
Paine's conduct, i.i behalfot Lou.s Capet,
tlie more I am mortifi.d and chagrined.
I am really afraid his next attempt vv i! 1 be
to get Antoinette and her royal brat here.
Is there not more probability of this now,
than there was of the other, before it took
place, as well as of the fuccefi ? 11l an)
not deceived by my suspicion?, for I ac
knowledge that I am much inclined to it,
in politics, Mr. Paine was either directly
ur indire£lly, at that time, under " fomi
kind of undue influence trom this country."
Perhaps through t'.e medium of the Poet
Lailieat, at Portugal, or some other ol the
diplomatic corps, at Loudon, Versailles,
&c. It appears to iwe scarcely poflible, that
liad he been foleiy actuated by the dictates
of his own good sense or conscience, that
tie would have run so counter to w hat lie
lias always profeifed and publifiied, (I will
not mention some flips, about the year
1783) and for which lie has been so much
appended in this country, as well as in
Europe.
•' Had he fiicceeded in his application,
and Louis been lent here, what a majeflic
expeiice would have been furnifned tor a
mojl Jupei b palace being built for him at
the federal city, with body guards, and a
house and other extravagant and ufelef:
follies, with a large tract of territory set
off for him in the YVeltern Diltrift, by way
of principality !—after which over trip
Voney Capet and her cub, &c. when we
fliould have been as completely equipped
with a full aflartuient, as old father Noah
had in his barqus—But we are not at the
worltofit yet Whenever the Presiden
tial chair of the Union became vacant, ei
ther by the death or resignation of the pre
lent polfeflor, some or other sf the regal
tribe would be proposed for it (if long e
nougii in the country) and then we lhould
be told, that we might as well have a king
by name, as a president, with kingly pow
ers, See. It is true, that this would be
availing themselves of their own u rong ;
but w hat care courtiers, it they can aggran
dize ttiemfelves, and their immediate de
fendants, at the expence of the people,
whom they ever despise, and willi to ftib
ingate by loading them with endlets taxes
and impofltions! When I contemplate how
narrowly we escaped this Charybdis not
long since, I can not but be thankful that
Louis C ipet made h'sexitjult when he did.
" I Hatter myfelf that I have afcheinein
view, at lea.'t, the out-line» ol one, which,
if carried into execution, will be some
check on the wall ivru gentry of th,
country. In my next I will fketcli it to
you."
The following cert licate appears in a
New York piper of last week.
WE, the fublcribers, do certify, and
ai e ready to make o th, it reqn red, thai
having been hailed by, a d obliged to go
on board his Britannic Majesty's friga'
the Botlwn, on the 29th July lalt, Capt.
Courtnay, the commander thereof, re
quelled us to inform Citizen Bompard
(meaning ttie Captain of the French frigate
I'Ambufi.ade) " That he would be glad to
fee—and was then waiting for him," 01
words fully to that import. And we fur
ther certify that a mid-(hip man of the
Bolton, who came in the boat with lis
until he was near Governor's Island. as
sured us, " that the Boston was fitted
out or the express purpose of FIGHT
ING and TAKING the Ambulcade ; and
that Capt. Courtnay had on that account
been permitted to take on board, at
Halifax, as large a number of extra sea
men as he thought proper.
PEFER DF.SCHENT,
C. ORSET,
ANDREW ALLEN,
The following speech was delivered by
Gen. GALBAUD, to thecrew of the Ju
piter, at New York, 011 Saturday, the
10th of Ault, 1793.
Brothers <b Friends,
The man that is capable ot betraying his
country, is unworthy to allill at the feaft
of liberty and equality.
Citizens, If you fufpeft me of so hien
ous a crime, you lhould be the firfl to pre
vent tlie pi efence of a Traitor disgracing
this august feaft.—Your silence convinces
me that you render me the jmtlice that I
deserve of you. You know that the itfue
of an event fliould not criminate a man.but
only the intention by whicli he was guided.
You know that 011 the unfortunate 20th
and 21ft of June, the love of the country
alone dictated my action, as I only wiflied
to deliver St. Domingo from the power 01'
two men, whose crimes are beyond coni
parifon. Y n u know that 1 yielded to your
own heartfiltin lignation which would not
permit you tu bear any longer the triumphs
of the enemies of liberty and equality. ,
Exulting in an approving conscience,
which will always rifefuperior to thejudg
mentsofmen viewing ai ound me brothers,
friends, who will not be enraged at my ot
fering them the language of truth—who
will never debase themselves so much as to
Salter vice jlt I fay, in be
holding thetrn« friends of liberty, that I
forget the piriVtutions I now fulT'i"under,
and it jj partaking of the general joy. that
I now pronounce cite oath which is deep
ly engraved on my repulican heart. I swear
th?" X will t>e faithful to the republic ; that
I wui maintain liberty and equality, and il
ever the public again employs me, that i
will (lie radier than abandon my poll.
GALBAUD.
By the schooner Indnftry, we learn,
that Anx-Cayes now exhibits a fiebe al
moft'as diftrelliug as that at Cape Fran
cois. Upwards of one hundred white:
have been put to death by the mulattoe
—and every day produces frefn instance;
of plunder and bloodlhed.
Various particulars appear under the
head of the National Convention pro
ceedings to M ty 30, relative to the anti-re
publican ir.furgents. Several small towns
that had been seized on by them had been
retaken : and great numbers of theft
people, milled by the refractory prielts
and old nobles, had returned to their
duty. They were chiefly dangerous in
the country from Rochfort to St. Ilorent,
and meditated freih attempts upon that
Sine. The chief difalter 011 the lide of the
patriots seems to have been near Fonte
najr, owing to the National Gendarme;
not charging according to orders, in con
sequence of which, part of the Artillery
was taken, but 110 other material lots.
Saturday, being the ever memorable
10th of Augult, the fame was observed a?
a day of Jubilee by the French fl:et ir
the harbour of New-York: —at fun-rife,
the ships of war displayed a profufion ol
colours of all nations—«nd at 12 o'clock, a
!eu-de-joie was hi ed throughout the whole
fleet. The Auitrnan flag bore a confpi
cuous situation. but those of the nation
war with the French, were all turned Us
fide down.
[From a Correfpo.'ident ; addreflld to the
Editor of th>* National Gazette.3
There is not o ;ci word of truth in the as
sertions contained in a piece signed " A
Citizea ot the United States," which ap
peared in your paper of the 10th inOant.
: elpetting a «opy-right having been claim
ed. for the copy of the judges
opinions on the Inability of a Itaie—Nci
Inch copy right has ever exiited ; and it
:i is alwas been optional with the prinu rstc
••-print those opinions or not—Why von
and the other printers have not done it, is
belt known to yourlelves.
P. Q..
("The author of " the Citizen" is there
fore requested either 10 prove or withdraw
his afic. lion.]
Ptiladelphia Union Society.
On Monday the sth day of Any.lift, 1 -93
at the annual meeting ot the society—The
following citizens were chosen 01/ker- foi
the enfiiing year : —Andrew Nilfon C;:p
tain ofthe ift company of Philadelphia gre
nadiers, Prelident—Richard Morthwaite
v ice Prelident—Thomas Bryant, Seireta
■v —And Bartholomew Bak< r, John Finch
|ohn andD uigherty,John Donohue, Stew
i ds for fix months.
The Odcsof Jonathan Pindar, Esq.
(Continued.)
ODE IX.
To Li berty.
Jonathan addreffeth his cafl-'ff mij
tre/s —pretendeth to have forgotten hei
name.—Revileth her grovelling talle, fu
rious temper, and contempt or her butters.
Commandeth her not to disturb the peace,
and driveth her beyond the Atlantic : but
at parting feemeth half willing to be re
conciled to her again.
In vitium LibertAs excidit,—Hor:
Et Tl;Da tcirrbilem SoTiitnTurratantara
dixit '/ire:
THO;U ! whatever be thy doubtful
-X-name,
Once dt Er to'us. and ftillto GAi.LiA
dear. Whole boilt'rous accents till the
Trump of Fame,
Accents, which we have grown too deaf
to hear :
Who did'lt, ereivhile, in Congress-Hal
prelide.
Each vote dilating to prevent mistakes,
Though now thine image there be thrown
alide t,
Doom'd to Oblivion in a filthy Jakes.
Who did'ft in many a well-fought battle
wave
Thy blood-ftain'd banners o'er our faint
ing heads.
And from the jaws of death, and rnin save
Full many a wight, that now thy pre
sence dreads :
Who, when the Din of War no more was
heard,
Did'lt to the humble Cottage flrait
retire.
And to imperial palaces preferr'd
Ba<e Independence, round a rural fire :
Who, when thou'rt wooed, art as a virgin
mild,
'Thine Angel-visage all bedeck'd with
fmiies ;
But when oppos'd, like an Hyxna wild
Thy fir, age fangi !—whofc rage no art
beguiles; .
Who do ft like death oa all conditions
look,
Nor f jarcft a Stuart's, or a CAPETS
head ;
Nor feare't.this earth inuft some convfalfi
-011 bro *-
For ///em;asif Tom TiiUiMßthe o.k.ea'l*
were de.id ;
Who at one stroke, hall thousands beggr.fi
made,
Of thole who Fortune's minions were,
before, J
And left them, without wealth, or worth,
or Trade,
To starve,—as they had millions fiartfd,
before :
Who careft no more for Coronets, or
Clowns,
Cr any modern would-be Lordling Cir,
(Alike contemning both their (miles and.
frowns,)
Than if our Daddy-Vice had never writ:
Avaunt !—Nor let thy Clarion g: ate our
e.trs
With founds, terrific as the final trump!
Sounds •liich once turn'd our pruning;
hooks to spears.
Arid i, j,a their scabbards caiu.'d our
sword* to jump :
Sounds ! that Should Cohgvejs lilten, might
appal
Tiie (touted Champion there, for right
divine, |(
Recall thine Image back to Fcdeial-ha'l.
And to thy Temple turn corruption's
ftirine :
Sounds ! that might even tempt them to
rew aid
The care-worn soldiers fears, & wound*
and woes,
Though S and A [huti'.d think
the nieafure hard.
And Speculators turn from Friends to
Fors :
Sounds ! that perchance might e'en the Se
nate wake
From il cams of rank and titles, power
and wealth ;
Or Ba: k Directors gilded {lumbe's break.
And bring the Con it i tut ion back to health:
Sounds ! tu.it perchance might to the
States re!all
Some faint remembrance of loft &ove
keign t iybtsf;
Those nyhts, which miyhty Atlas }.jt
doom'd to fall,
And which stern Minos banifli'd front
their fights.
Scrund.s 1 tiiat might peradventure drive
aw ay
The faithful Br.tons from our weflern
pcjts ;
Those Cent.nels, who guard us night and
d. y,
Our Jcalps defending from the Indian
hojls :
Sounds ! that perchance might prcmpt ;i
silent wifii
To aid their llruggles, who once aided
outs ;
Nor, whilst thy cause is fighting,—mute
as firti,
Behold th'ambition of combining powers:
To France return !!! There, fnall thy
b :zen lings
Yield inulli fwreter than the fvren's voice.
Though louder fur than F-.me's twice filiy
tongues.
And unborn millions at the fourdrejoice.
There, vuie ti y b.ianers ! —there, thy
fauU hion wield !
There, lead to victory ench gallant Son !
There, let thy ilaughter'd Foes bestrew the'
Field !
Nor let e'en tyrants, there, thy venge
ance (hun!
Nay,—though imperial crowns 3c HEADS
Ihould fall,
Nor age, ii or sex protect thy fiend like
Foes.**
Rather than Tltcu (hould'ft quit this earth
ly bull.
E'en Jonathan (hall cry—god JpeeA
thybliwi
That which in a Democracy is called
Liberty, in governments of a different
nature, obtains the Epithets of U'ivncittj
nejs. Anarchy, See. hence probably arise*
Jonathan's embarralTment by what name
to call his quondam miftrejs.
t The removal of tiie bud of Liberty
from the Federal Hall, to the Waterclo
fet, where the members when hard pre ltd
retire, is a fact well known in Philadelphia
though perhaps not generally known eile
where. Trifles, fays Doctor Franklin, are
like ilraws —they sometimes I'erve to litew
which way the wind blows.
| The Arillocruts of France.
|| The Doctrine of Jure d'uino right,
though exploded tor a century, fcems
likely to be revived in our days, if the
view s and wifbesof certaiti Friends to mo
narchy among us, Ihould prevail.
For lhame Jonathan ! would!!;
thou doom to the Guilotine inch Heads,
as the Fmprels of all the Ruffias ?
t Several of the slates proposed amend
ment? on the fnbjeft of the judicial depart
ment of the government of the United
States, which have been entiiely disregard
ed hitherto, by Congress.
Sec ode 2d.Whether Atlas penn'd the
draught of the present conltitmion or not,
it is weil known 10 have been his policy to
annihilate the Mates, and in licit «• fa fede-
I'ali-epuM'iC to erect au etrergetk monarchy./ For the National Gazette.
RIGHTS IN GENERAL.
YE righteous powers ! vouchfafe to shew
Contending worms, llicir rights to
know.
The 'rights of man,'' pray what are those,
But rights to fllow—each his nose.—
The "rights of woman," what be these ?
But do and fay—whate'er ftje
The 41 rights offchoolboyV'—why, if clever,
They're fqu'tb, fegar, and—-fun for ever.
The fondling rights of mamma's pet ?
Why death to menials—if it fret.
"What " affcs'-rights !"—why br.>y invain;
Or else their "heather rights" maintain ;
While rights ofTEACHUM fierce, or dolt,
Are fparc the whip, and break the co!t.
Wh't e'en are rights of queens and
kings,
Butjarc-.'d sweets and litter (lings ?
>\nd what their fubj ells' rights at b ft,
But rigli s to top off sovereign ciell !
Wiiat then the rights of Itanders-bv,
Bui ■ariir. rights to laugh and cry i
While rights canaille—fib being off,
Are rights the traitor's blood to quaff !
What then are rights of public bodies,
But cater, feali, and ride their noddies ?
And what the rights of outs and ins,
But rights recriminating fins !—
' What, rights of funding financiers ;
But fiscal rights to tax compeers ?—
Wl.. , rights offcribes 8c publicfpeakers i
JF.vaJivc c'aufe to aid law breakers.—
And what the rights ol pleadei's tongue.
But rights t» prove, that right is wrong \
Wh»t hence, ar rights offage and foot.
But turn about, be rul'd and rule 1
A.'id what the rights of lords and maflers,
But flea aiive, for jeign'd dif It e-s >
Whit then, the rig ts of naffalJla es,
But rights to dig their mailers' graves !
What ntxt are rights of flrong and weak
But rights the wall to five or seek ?
And what the rights of young and old,
But rights to fill or—to befold ?
What e en ere rights of rich and poor,
But one to beg at th' other's door ?
Yet, rights of robber to wring froni-one,
Are r.ghts to hold all things in common :
Whiie rights of wights to toil for bread,
Are rights toJlarve, or —work 'til! dead,
What rights pleau libertines of late,
. But rights to b'licve no juture flake?
And pray what rights more nice or civil,
To rid mankind of tyrant devil ?
While rights of molt atrocious deed,
Are heaz'enly ri hts—if they succeed ;
And rights vhish jufily fhou'd prevail,
Ar rights infernal— if they fail.
What right have folks, logo to roar,
B.:" rights to keep men llill impar ?
Left rights of peace make neutral bat,
1 rove neitherpleb, nor Ci'icmndt
What rights give conju'ring heroes birth;
But right 3 to dcfolate the earth I —
\V hile righ's of pulpit, bar, and flage,
Ar,- rights to heighten partv rage ;
A.nd rights ofprefs—whate'er betide—
Ar ■ r ghts to print on—either fide.
What rights c aim vilefl toad and frog,
But rights to croak o'er some " king log j
And pray what rights have these to ceate.
'Till rig ts offlork eltablidi peace,?
Nay what are rights of man and aiife,
But rights to wrangle during life ?
And what th; rights of infint beam,
But rights to lirten, lisp and learn ?
While rights of rightlings in he flreet,
Arc rights infulting—allihey meet.
What, hence, an Africs —savage rights,
But rights to massacre all whites ?
And what the rights of whitefl nation.
But rights of pre retaliation ?—
Whence rights of mob, in ev'ry age,
Are plunder, blood, aud facrijfge ;
While rights of rabble to be free,
Are rights of "jujlequality."
Poor rights of nature, how antique ! '
Her cloum and cit so much unlike ;
While rights of /Irt spread ev'ry where,
Of " common fenfc" —-an equal ftiare:
G ve rights, alike, to mule and ass,
Of poundage, for not knowing their grass ;
An.i veil e'en mice —in air balloon,
With equal rights to—storm the moon I —
Those glorious rights—affum'd or giv'n,
Blefs'd angel pride firft try'd in Ixeav'n ;
And tho' such rights base sprits fail'd
On noblerJleJh, they're flill entail'd.—
And what, tho' ghojlly right records,
A " king of kings, and lord of lords ?"
The rightb'er title ' cit of cits,',
Far better suits " king killing'' writs.
Whence rights of rulers, clergy, laymen,
Ar> now. but rights of patient amen ;
While rights, in fine, of gieat and small,
Are "flrongt/l arm"—come, carry all;
A right of rights which, luho fiut fee? ?
From oris on high, to miles in cheese !
But quit such rights for rights of truth,
And right your conduct, while in youth ;
Let rights of child be what they fhou'd,
And when 'tis old they'll ttill be good.
Be rights oitnjk, tho' bard, well ply'd ;
Left truant rights take lawless ft ride.
Brook rights above—soothe those below,
For placid rights lie 'tween the two.
Love rights offoe —as fellow-worm.
And on yourfelf commence " reform."
So will e'en njur'd rights outfheen
The triumphs of the "guillotine
But hold, perhaps of right you'll ask,
What! mutt I cringe in borrow'd mafl{ ;
To usurp d rig ts otpow'r and pelf ?
In each " arijlo" tyrant elf\
Whose jbeilifb • ights are to keep down,
Such upright man andpfljftve clown ;
As impar rights ofpurfe and (crip,
Fore-doom to drudge, or brook Ihe whip ;
When rights egalite count Hodge,
As fit to rule the roajl, as Geo'gß ?
No—this were rights of pup to
Which lids the foot that kicks it most ;
While rights offex, age, and degree,
Are death I or, " equal lilerty."
Hail " lev llirig rights I" sublimely just ;
Who know no gods, save 'flail' & ' mufl\'
Would right 3 of Chrijl but worfhipjiSH,
The woild were His— f.ibdue—
Then rights of Prufs, Rufs, Turk & Pole,
In democratic dull might roll ;
And reptile rights no more revere
John Bull, than shamrock volunteer.
Nay, then to "rights of man" wa« giv'r
1 o fix the rights of hell and heav'n.
While rights of heroes, nymphs and gnats—
Co-blefs'd in rights of vermicrats ;
Might hold, with Pope, in pride's despite ;
' hai " whatsoever is, is right
And that all coan/sr-rights are zjrong :
V\i hich ends my rightlefs rights of song!
FHILEUTHYS.
Philad. 1793.
From the INDEPENDENT CHRONtCLS.
Mejfrs. Adams & Larkin,
AT present it is only necefTary to ob
fcive upon a lingle paragraph in the
publications of PAdFlcus,a writer in Mr.
Fenno's paper, and reprinted (by request in
the Columbian Ccntinel.) One reason he
offers why we ought not to comply with
our treaty with France, is, that it might
possibly set upon us the numerous tribes ol
Indians along our whole interior frontier,
atting under the influence and direction ol
England and Spain.
It is curious to o .serve the art an " inge
nuity of writer? when arguing againlt the
French, or againil the fulfilment of out
treaty with that nation. It seems, by this
writer, we are now to break our treaty
with France, \jnder the apprehension of om
being engaged in an Indian war, carried
on under the " diredlion and influence oi
the British nation."
Pray, Mr. Pacificus, which i? the most
ruinousto the U. States, to break our trea.
ty with France or demand our forts of the
English, agreeable to the.r treaty, in or
der to prevent the hostilities of the In
dians, under " their diredlion and influ
ence ? "Do you suppose that the French
will be fatisfied on this point with your
fophidry, or that you can blind the eyes ol
the Convention by arguments so puerile ?
Have the Englilh held our frontiers for fa
mnny years with a design to prevent our
ever afiiiling our allies ? Or has lord
Dorcheller given you this official infor
mation, with instructions to retail it in
all the hackneyed papers of your party !
Now, Mr. Pacificus, you are mightily a
fraid of an Indian war, when France it
brought into view ; but where have been
your f.ars for many yea's pall, while ad
mitting a combined body of land jobber
to involve this country in all the horrors
and expence of the war you now so feri
oufly deprecate ! Why did you not come
forward with your publications, and dif
countenance an Indian war, at a period
when it became so formidable as to require
an extra duty of two and an half per cent,
on the trade, to support it ? Why was
not your patriotism alarmed on the report
of a committee of v'ongrefs, which has
laid two fefiions almolt totally unnoticed,
notwithllanding it w® evident, that thou
sands and tens of thousands, nay mi'liona
of dollars, were expended and wafted by
mismanagement and neglect ? Was you,
Pacificus, so deeply ingulfed in the vortex
of speculation, that you could not elabo
rately descant on the horrers of an Indian
war, when our brave troops were repulsed
and fiaughtered near the villages of the
Miami ! Or was the reputation qf those
that were concerned m this difgraccful bu
nefs, more sacred, than a treaty iigned by
our ambaflador in France, and ratified by
Jie Congrels of the United States ?"
Mention not, Sir, an Indian war, this
being a bunnefs which many in govern
ment ought to blush at, as it is reasonably
conjedhired that t■>is infamous war, origi
nated among a set of land jobbers, who
wish to acquiie an immense territory at
the expence of the revenue and the earn
ings of the indultrious merchant, trade!
man and farmer.
A further argument which you offei
why we ought to break our treaty 'with
France is, " that the United States art
iellitute of a naval force.', But if you
was at the head of our financiering de
partment, you would know, that more
money has been expended in fut le opera
t ons, and peculating contrails, in carrying
>ii the Indian war, >han would have fur
lifted the United Slates, long before this
:ime, with a navy fufficient to cop with
iny maritime power in Europe : Provi
Jed you was at the" head of our finan
cing department, wii} r have you not
:>een as careful on this head, as to youi
' inllrumentality" in furnifmng means tc
Dank speculators ? Had this important
übjeft been attended to, and a thorough
nveftigatiou taken place in the war de
partment as to the immense sum, needless.
y expended in In ian expeditions.Pacifi
cus would now blulh to maks an afferti
an, that the United States were deflitutj
if a naval force, or pretend to offer this a;
\ reason why we ought to break a treaty
ivith a nation on whose friendfliip the fu
ture glory, honor u elfare,commerce, agri
:uhure and manufactures of America ef
[entially depend.
One remark more will clofc the prefeni
:>blervations. Pacificus *fter endeavour
ing in three elaborate publications 10 provi
that we are not bound by treaty to aflill
I ranee ((hould they require it) conclude:
with hefe w ids, And the Prtfidenl
ivas in every view fully jullified in pro
lousicing that the duty and interest of the
United States dictated a neutrality in thi
■var " Do you fuppofe.Pacificus, that thi
Pr lident will thank you for bringing hii
proclama'ion as a voucher to fan&ior
your principles? Is the '-neutrality''
recommended by the President founded
jpon the principles you advocate, viz.
:hat we *re not bound by any fubiillino
:reaty ? It is aa affront to the PieliJent
to suppose this was the design of his pro
clamation, or that you was deputed the
herald to proclaim the principles upon
which it was issued.
I forbear to enlarge on the idea, as I
im convinced this illullrious chara£t»r,
retains too high a sense of the honor ol
ihe dates, and feels too deeply intereftet]
in the honor of this country, to blast its
reputation by jesuitism and sophistry ;
mote especially would he attempt to ex
plain away a treaty with a nation, whose
rienddiip a d martial prowess he so parti
cularly experienced, at a t me, when the
:roops of France were led by him hand in
band with those of America, into tht
lield of battle, and whose blood in confe
rence of his commands, was mingled in
ane current, in defence of the cause o!
freedom and America Far he will re
member, nor can the idea ever he oblite
-ated from his memory, That the foldieri
rf France were atlive in placing the Lau
rels of viElory on his head
A DEMOCRAT.
Shreiujbury and Phila: ielpfiia
STAG E.
THE Shrtwfbury and Philadelphia flagr
will commence to run regularly, on Thurl
lay he fourth of July, to leave Philadelphia on
that day,_ after which time, during the montl
nfjuly, ii will Hart from M'Kean andVanEm
burl's wharf ai Philadelphia (the next wl.arf be
low Arch llreet) on every Sunday and Wednef.
& proceed to Bordenton—the land tc
proceed on the next morning to Edingtoa, anc
to return on every Tuesday and Friday. In tht
month of Augufl, it wi. 1 leave Pi ,i lad -1 phi a or
every Sunday and j hurfday, and return on everj
Tuclday and Saturday.
Fare for Paffengersfrom Philadelphia
to Edinpton - - two dollars &an half
for goods ditto - ditto pr. cwt. one dllai
VAN EMBURGSf M'KEAN,
SAMUEL FORMAN,
'Bordenton June 29, 1793.
For freight or palfage, apply to the mailers on
board, or to
M'KEAN & VAN EMEURGH
Who have for sale as ujttal at their (lores ni said
tvharf, pork, hams, floui, lard, butter, rye auo
Zndia.i meal, chcefe, bar iron &c. &c.
J3' 2m. law.
STOP THIEF.
THE public aio requested to fto aviilaiD wh
Calls himfelf I nomas <Stevens or Steven*
ion, is 3 i;ood IWmaker, fays he was bora in the
rtate as N;w York, is abo.<t 5 ret 7or 8 inehei
high, Well made, fair complexion, (hoit curled
lair behind, and baM before to the crown ; has
1 fear on the back of hii head, whicfi he la s he
-eceived in Savannah in defence of M'. Millin,
his employer, by a stroke us a boot tree by a IWr.
Smithfon ; hastiavelled through ever) Kate in
he Union, and several ot the Indian nations ; he
Hole fiom this place a sorrel Geldiog, about 1 - J
or 14 hands high, has a star in his face, brandid
on the mounting ihoulder RM joined, paces and
rots. Likewile, a half worn dnuble (kitt«d fad.
!e, with plated rtirrups, and a fnatfle oridlc,witli
Mir miw plated buckles, and a pair of goose
lecked pJ a t»•: fpuis. Whoever will bring said
borle and thief to the fubferibsr, ihail receive
Ten Guineas reward
SIMON DAY-
July 9< 5 t
JijiPubliJhcd
By Johnston and Justice,
No. 41, Ch: l,i ut ■ lee t, and may be had at
No. 209, Market Street,
Ft ice one ami Jour pence baf penny #
Travels through America,
A Porm—by Michael Forrest.
CONTENTS:
VOYAGE fiom Ireland to Newfoundland—
Delcription of N from
Newfoundland to iSollon—Addrefs to Columbia 4
!• (he Boftonians, and to Bunker's Hill—Voyage
from Boston to Baltimore—Observations on palf
ag Brandy wine, going to Philadelphia— A view
>f a youth fwimmingin the river Schuvlkill and
Vorting on its majgin—Defcription of Philadel
phia— A fraternal scene—A moral deduced from
lie fraternal scene—Battle of the kegs in Phila
delphia— Sailing from Philadelphia to Borden
rown in a ft?ge boat—Philosophical contempla
tion with respect to human happiness—View of
Burlington and Bristol—A de icate view of a
voung lady bathing in a sylvan pool—Rolanda in
the grove, a fural scene—Moral from the distress
it Rolanda—Addrefs to Rolanda's inconstant
Twain—The approach of Winter—A Winter
Storm—The approach of Spring—A view of the
1 •>!ar fyrtem on a fine lummer night—Rural ob
servations—Battle of Trenton — Praise of Gene
ral Waliiington — Dai.line and Strephon, a rural
scene—Voyage to Chailefton, South-Carolina—
Description of Charleston and the Ladies of Ca
rolina—Verses to a Carolina Lady---Siege of
Charlefton---Addrefs to Fortune---Verfes ad-
J relied to a young Gentleman at the Charleston
CoPege-Academy — A fpecimcn of unlimited
rublime poetrv—Man ill all be free, a new font;;
Shoals ofOgechee, {Georgia) June 18.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And ta be foJd by THOMAs DobsoW, Wil
i.i am Young, Robert Campbsll-
Meffi-s. Rice and Co. and John M
Ctn.Locii, No. 1. North Third-flreet,*
\ N EXAMINATION of the late pro
ceedings in Congress refpefling the
official condnft of the Secretary of the
T'reafury; with Observations, &c. on the
ipplication of lojnsfrom Holland, negoci
ited under the at>s of the 4th and 12th as
Angult 1790 —The price of the above
Jimphlet is three iixteenths of a dollar, or
i*4d. 1-2. April 24. 2aw if
*»* The author reqnefts his readers to
orrect tlie following ERRATA m the
Jamphlet above mentioned. Page j.
Mie 1 1 —_>d paragraph, (or Coalition read
Zo'liji:<■ . Page 25- linen—2d parag.
■l'tead of Bank directors read "Stock
lolders."
JUST PUBLISHED,
\nd to be fold at the refpedtive B Ic Stores of
JoJtpb Crukjbank and Tismai Dtifan, and majr
be had at the Printing etlice, No. 2C9, Mar
ket-Street.™ Price one eighth of a aollar. 1
L E T T E R S,
kddrefiVd to rhe Yeomanry of the
United States:
Containing foine Observations on Funding
and Bank Sy(terns:
By AN AMERICAN FARMER.
Ten Dollars Reward.
FJ AN away from the fubferiber the iGth
J ur, e latl, an apprentice tad named
jOSEP'H CURTIS, by trade a house carpenter,
1 bout 19 years of age, 5 feet 9 inches high, is
eft-handed, iLht brown hair, full faced j had
>n when he went away a brown broadcloth coaf,
vith metal button?, striped cotton waistcoat,
ind homespun linen trowlers, coloured. Wha
•verwill take up said apprentice, and secure him
n jail, so that his matter may get him again.
it bring him home, ihall receive the above re
ward, and reafona'ole charges paid by
WILLIAM COOKE.
Bordentown, July 6, 1793. iaw3w j
A FEW COFIESOF THE
TRANSACTIONS
Of the Society infiituted in the State of
New-York, for t/ie promotion of
AGRICULTURE, ARTS, and MANU«
EACTURES,
May be had at this Office.
[Price half a DOLLAR.J
PRINTED BY
CHI LD S AND SWAINE.
AT THSlrt J F* ICE ,\'o. 209, HIGH-3TB SB T,
si £ K fIFTH-STHrET,