Nums. 50 of Vol. 11.]
To the Editor of the National Gazette.
S I R,
THE mercury of republicanism in thV
city seems to rife and tall with the
good fortune of France, and hef
liieufuofs are approved or condemned ac
cording to her victories or defeats—abfiird
as this may appear.it is too notorious to ad
mit of doubt ; but what is llill more ftrik
ingly abominable and di {graceful, is. that
the follies of the deranged and apoftati
Burke ;:.ould be acted among us, without
' even exciting that ;iu, ./nation, or contempt
v. h > t :ey txperi teed in hi own conn
try Some Envji,nmeu among us who arc
pia, r Burke in miniature forget that
they are iu thi rep'rbli: of America ; they
so. ,et that Great-Britain was the enemj
of this country and endeavoured so eliflavc
lis; they forget that the interposition of
France saved us from the chains which
England had forged for us, or they would
not dare to call our faithful allies '• out
throats and robbers."—ls the re
publican spirit of America extinguilhed,
that we will permit such language ? Are
Dot Frenchmen aflerting the fame natural
rights whichjie claimed, for which we
fought, 'jt\ to obtain which the best
blood olWjr country was Ihed ? arc w<
not fufFering a reflection upon ourselves to
alloy a set of men, wno have emigrate:
Irotn Britain to anfwtr their own private
purpoles, and to gain a coufejuence which
they had not at home, and who e,ive a pre
ference to everything that is Britilh, to vili
fy-a nation that has rendered us inestima
ble services ? Ungrateful American -, to
take those into your bosoms who would
have extirpated you but a few year ago,
and to Ihow abhorrence for men who have
alli'ted in ranking you among freemen 1
If for decapitating their king the Fie.ich
are to be branded with the character of
cutthroatswhat character do Britons
merit who set the example in the Jecolla
tion of Charles the fit ? what epithet
lhall we apply to them for the bahjlhment
of che Stuart', and the murder of Mary
Queen of Scots? if Frenchmen are to be
called " robbers'' 1 tor seizing upon property
which belonged to the nation, what (hall we
call Briton:, fa( seizing upon tkk pro
perty of the Dutch at St. eu
st at IA during the .American war. pre
vioully to any declaration of hostilities ?
Americans, Who cut the throats of your
brethren during the resolution ? Who de
stroyed them by (low and lingering tor mints
in prison flips and jails f Who burned your
tnw is, Laid ivafie your country, and rioted
upon your mijeries ? Let it be engraven on
the immortal tablets of fame, that
tons equalled savages in barbarity, and
tygers in their thirst for blood ! The pr;(on
fhipsof New-York, the jails of Philadel
phia and Charleston,' :he massacre at Pajli
&c. willatteTtthefe inhuman truths—The
French have been, they are the friends of
this country, and by admitting the applica
tion of '• tut throats, robbers, a den of
theives" we cIT ourfel-cs with them a
frientls to their cause. ai.d having, a£ted the
* fame thin j.on a finail'-.v theatre—lhatl we
fui-"er fucb v'lt language to be echoed
againlt our brethren republicans without
the notice it-defcrves j .aanld b'mih for
my country coul.j 1 for a mom it fttppofe
It. No.—America:** will no longer fuller a
set of upj'artsto t.fe the most coutunvli
ons language agai/ift a nation who are
afferjin-fthe cause of mankind, and who
arefo far the superior of Br,tons in point
of humanity, urbanity, intellect, and re
publicanifm, that the French would be in
sulted by a comparison.
THE SPIRIT OF MDCCLXXVI.
April 16—93.
XJ—a. "■*-
from the (Bojion) Independent Chronicle.
THE !atj king of France is no more !—
When the Marquis la Fayette, and the
w men, who -with him. h :d caught the fire ol
liberty in America, and had kindled the sa
cred flame infhe French nation, we exulted
inthecooqnetts of reason & common fenft
—and rrjoiced that mankind began to at
tend to their own happir.tfs. We law the
mobility of Europe—tiie clergy of na
tions, and the monarch; of all the earth
engaged against the rights of mankind.
'We were not difcour 1 ged when we beheld
every effort of the nation baffled by the in
ti i; ues of the kirg, the queen, and tfie
p. incefs Lan'deile; becanfe vye affttred
ourselves that the desperate exigencies of
liberty would find resources for them
fclvcs.
By P. FRENEAU'. Publijlicd Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
SATURDAY, April 20, 1793.
When the nation had divided itfelf into
two deliberative depirtmrnts—the one at
thc Jacobin Convent, and the other at the
Dome of the Fuelliers—the former for the
support of a republic, and the latter for the
refloration of mon rchy, we were alarm
er' ;it the zeal of the Jacobins ; and though
ue liad so lately palled through the bloody
and diftrefiing of a revolution, yet
we fondly hoped to have a crown cast tc
(lie earth—a throne undermined—a nobil
ity deflroyed-—ftri execrable priefthootl ex
tirpated, wifhout a ltrUggle, or a sanguin
ary process.
The patriots of France were at last con
vinced that the king was fiipporting with
the money of the nation, the armies of the
x-princesj fie was making an attempt to
join them : It was evident that he consi
dered the oaths which he fyad taken, as by
no means obligatory. They (awth.it he
iigned all a£b, but those which tended to
the support of the partial revolution which
had been effected. No alternative was left
but those of the abolition of monarchy, pr
the deltruefion of freedom ; the former
neceflarily involved the definition of the
sing, and the latter, as neceflarily that of
theßational Assembly, with the liberty o!
rhe pewple. Thu- situated, the conftitu
ion, which the king was secretly under
lining, was openly overthrown by the peo
jle, and a conuituiidnpropofed, which w a:
rounded in the true principles of philofu
}hy. That prodticlion dot v honour to hi!
nan nature ; it is the mo'.l perfect mode
■if civil government that can ever appeal
imong men. The king at that time was
nade a prisoner. We fKH rejoiced in thf
Drogref- of freedom. Oar pulpits were
is rapt in adoration, because kings were lain
'« chains, and princes in fetters of iron.
Our papers were full of exultation at the
\irth cfafifter Republic- We openly gave
t as our opinion, that there would not be
i king in Europe at the end of ten year .
Yet we knew th it all the monarchs in j i.
ope, all the nobility of the world, and all
:hc clergy"of (hii'Jcniom, were tngagicl
igainft the French. It was the cause of
■oya'ty and hereditary dignity, that urged
hem on. What is the language of some
jf the men now, w ho w ere so very zealous,
hen -? They saw without tears or emotion,
:he (laughter in Paris, which hurried 150 c
:itizens, in an instant, from this to another
world. But when the news of the death
as the man who was unfortunately the
cause of this, is brought to us, we give up
all for 1011, and even blush at the name of
iberty. What is It that renders his blood
so very precious," but the love of royalty ?
But it is (aid that he h . d done nothing wor
thy of death—and that his tiial was not
fair. — How do we know this ? The trial
could never have been Jis it (land . ih our
newspapers.—Shall we condemn fever
hundred men, nay, a whole nation, with
i: their being heard ? A million of peo
ple, at leal, were witnefies of the unfor*
tun ate exit of Louis the Sixteent'h.
Are we to believe that a majority of those
u ere in favour of his dea:h. when thai
death was unnecefiary ? Let the m m whe
-Ondemns the measure as cruel, fanguina
•y, or unneceflary come forth an<l fliew
.hat Louis the SixteiH.t/l.was determined ta
th into private life, to become a common
itizen,' and to abandon the throne for him
" If and posterity ; and that monarchs of
iirop'e had given over the idea of reftor
ng France to monarchy, and he will fup
ioi t his objection. He ought to do this,
jr to censure the measure only, because he
loVcs monarchy, delights in royalty, and
[tefpifes republicanism.
BRUTUS.
LOUIS CAPET has loft his CAPUT. *
pROM my use of a pun, if may seem that
I think lightly ot his fate. I certainly
do. It affects me no more than tli§ execution
of another malefactor. Lefs'indeed ; be
cause knowing the comniiferation which
will ensue oil the falfe principle ofeftimat
ing highly the misfortunes' of great per
sonages, I f eel a contempt of this distinc
tion in favour of rank, and ant disposed to
commiserate less than in the cafe of some
obfeure and imp.tied rogue that goes to
the gallows* without a thought to survive
him. Because few pity him, I will be one
of those few : but in the cafe of Louis,
because therfi are so many kings, and
qiieens, and arilfocrats throughout the
wot Id to make a mountain of the matter,
I disdain to join with them, or feel pity
at all.
* Caput is the Latin word for head.
Thii tile was guilty there ran be no doubt.
It was Scarcely in human nature that he
itioulcfcnot be guilty. — Who, ever parted
with pi v'-r when he could kee it ? Some
have parted with life : fouje.witli power.
Voluntarily ? Marcus Brutus and Atticus.
wilh life : Dioclelian and Charles, with
pOwei : filicide in the one cafe, and relig
nafiqii. in the'other. But give me an ex
ample of one acquiescing l'rom the heari
in an abridgment of power, and retaining
the remainder. Pride and ambition wil
be nothing, rather than half what it .was.
A man that has been in the habit of dictat
ing every ti :ngl»ut the power of rhoughi
to tliofe of m.irtklml around him, caOim
have become fiich 3 philosopher, as to re
ducehis mind with his (late, and be fatis
lied with a refiricted controul. You inaj
as Well tame a grown up wolf, or a bear
To a terrain extent Louis wasfincere. Hf
was willing; nay anxiou to procure foi
the p. f \ .!e all the h ip;>:,"efs he could giv<
hen. . .i'er civ» that is, a cfinven
:ion ol the ftat-es, ill order to choose then
)'.va 'w. iys and means of supplying bin
i'.ith money. But he-had 110 idea of re
:rendu ig his prerogative. He was 1101
incere in the adopting the constitution
hlisoath was falfe ; his councils insidious ;
lis object subjugation by the afiifhmce 01
111biother kings, it was at stake whe
.her lis should succeed, and Lrucidatehali
1 million of fubje£ts ; or whether his fub
etfs . iould tic-capitate him. Had he fuc
eedfcl, would his "brother kings, and arif
ocra.s, have felt commiseration at a reci
il oi the tr 11 dilation of democrats ? ]S'o :
liey would have fnuffed the air that
,1 ought tile account, as if fragrant Yvilf
jdor f'-rous odours. Why then such s
i«ife even with republicans aboiutliedeath
if Louis ?
Pittfourgh, April 1, 1793.
Vfrom tkefitu-Yorfi JDI^RY.y
T OBSERVED fo:ue tlmefince, in ail ex
*• trait from the proceedings of the Houft
>f Commons in England, a l'peech of Mr.
Surke's, in'which he drew a comparifoi
jctween the revolutions of France anc
America, and aflerted, that—" There ne
rer was one deliberate murder committer
Itiring the American war." And L alfc
jbferved in one of yjnr papers an extra£l
rom an F.nglifh paper, in following
,1 ords—" A Choitaw or a Cherokee, only
wreck their vengeance npon tliofe wlic
have been found in open arms againfl
Lliem, and that only during war ; womer
*nd children are refpefled by them ant
:he hatchet is never iaken up but r.gainfl
:he maleparfof their fpes—but in France
neither age nor sex lias been refpefted.'
It isonly neceflafy to read the above tc
know, that these are the aflertions of the
tools of party, who pay as little refpeft tc
truth, as they do tothe rights and happincf
ot their fellow creatures, and whofepow
eris e,.abli,,.ed by usurpation and injustice
and t ail only be fuported by falfehood anc
oppceflioii. The aflertion of Mr. Burke'
can be proved to hefcJfe by tljoiifaiifls o:
l.vjng witnefles ; and the other i< knowi
to be a notorious lie by every child of o:ih
tea years old in America. It appears, tha
Burke and allot kites are endeavoring t<
make people beiieve that tyrants, arifto
cr tsandfav ges, are less cruel than thi
defenders of. liberty : But let us judge
from facts. During the American w:;
there were many criieltiesexercked by.thi
American:, (tho' perhaps fewer than ii
wars in general but they were done bj
individuals, andnsvcr countenanced bytln
majority of the party, nor by tliofe in pow
er ; on the contrary, they always treated
their, prisoners with the greatest humanity
But the royal party did not imitate them,
but encouraged every species of cruelty
and praiVifed it 011 their prisoners : The)
sent them to gacl, and fuft'ered them to be
hung by Cunningham the goaler, withoui
trial ! —l'hey flow ed thousands of them or
board afhip, where they died by hundred:
of a week 1 becanfe thty would net fighi
againit their country ; and their bone,
now lay bleaching on Long-Island fiiore.
(not one mile lrom this;) where these
who doubt may be convinced. /
As to the cruelties of the patriotsi-oj
France, (so much talked of) the accounts,
ill the firft place, come to us much exag
gerated by Britilh aristocrats, and they
were generally committed while the nation
was in a fete of warfare in every -depai t
ment. The Joyalilts,nobility and piitfl-.
opposing the progress of liberty ; ..;:ti tl.t
[Total No. i 54. J
people determined to suppress tlicfe tyrants
who had so longoppreiic-d them. But the
scenes which liave drawn our principal at
tention are, the 10th of AugiHL, and the
death of Louis ; who foine people pretend
to qali innocent, but who oppoud die lib
erty of tiie people from Hie firft : Aild
every advantage they gained was by force,
and for the want of it in him.—He would
haye.butchered the people, but his soldier*
defertcd him : Tile people carried their
point, but yet they jorgave him ; and, to
prevent further bloodllied, put him at the
head of their government, and endeavor
ed to make him good n>an, by
him for what he could not prevent. Kilt
experience has proved, that kings, whol:!.e
other robber?, have imbibed bad principles
in their infancy, cannot be made good ■ ar,4
the only way to prevent their doing
;o put them to death : For v. e find'thaf
Louis, after being placed at the head of thf
government, aijrf fiveariag to maintain th'c
confUtut< 11, became a traitor to his cmit
try, and furniOiecl its mortal enemir?, the
emigrants; with money, and encouraged
them to invade their country: w inch the
patriots having discovered, and knowing
that the einig ants, Aufirians and Pruflia,.?
were approaching, mii h the vowed inten
tion of b; lltging Paris, and jullly
ing that if the executive power was left in
the hancfS,oi Lun:s, the combined armies
would ma,et with luit little oppolition-in
their way i and when they arrived, t
vvouid be too late to wrest the power from x
!nrn—they resolved upon the only expe
dient, (and the event has proved it : j I' or,
when the people aflembled on this glorious
day, which fecyred the freedom of France,
they found he had gained over theSwifs,
and part of the National guards, and that
thereAvere several thouland priefls and
aristocrats ready whenever a.favorable op
portunity faunldoSer, to draw their fworcis
againil their coontry : How dreadful then
would have been their, situation, had they
ovyu delayed tne only cefource they l ad,
-.I* the combined armies were at their
gates. $'
The mafiacre that follow ed was a mat
ter of necessity, not of choice ; the patri
ots mult crulh tlie aristocrats, or thev
tiiemfelves inuft perish : Therefore, if
there were any innocent persons perifhcd
that day, (though I have never known a
'ingle one named) their bleed n.uft be 1; id
to those who caused the necessity of tie '
measure, and to those followers oTcvtry
party who take advantage of public disor
der to gratify private resentment. and not
to the patriots. The last dQ of cruelty
imputed to them, is the death of Louis.
But, the patriots of France can no more be
called cruel for putting Louis to death,
than our laws can for hanging the chief of
a gang who had rdbbed a honfe, and when
they were opposed, murdered part of the
family: For,though he murdered no perfi n
1 im elf, yet others did it for him, and he
vidently encouraged and countenanced
them : And the lives of all those patriots
who fell on the tenth of At:;_ufl. a:,d in
oppolingthe combined armies, are ju<My
charged to this enemy cf mar, Kir.d ; who
yet was so void of remorse as to decline
when at the fcaffold, that he was innocent,
hich many good nntured peopleare wil
ling to take as. a'proof.
But fljould George, of Fnglarrcl, (that
monster, who has committed nr re rob
beries and murders than all the highway,
men who ever existed in that ifiand, and
whose name will never be mentioned by
poiierity but with detection,) be brought
into tile fame situation, he would probably
mak.e the fame plea.
The fact is, kings' confeienees are feared
by fall'e education.—Tliey are t, tight t;>"
.wok upon mankind as their propel iy. and
they traat them accordingly.
[Inserted by Desire.3
A/fR. Harris and Mr. Nicholfqn haying
met on the Banks of the Potown.; ck,
oppolite to Ceorge-To\Vn, to fet:le a dis
pute between them, on which a challenge
had pa fled, they took their ft and s at ten yai clj
diflance, and exchanged a hot fore
they fired, Mr. Harris dec sreci, " that l.e
was innocent of the charges allec'ged {-gainst
him, andflioiild he fall, heliad Jest avirit
ten declaration to.ihat pnipcie with major
Wright."—While pre .nations w ere n .
ing lor a fecund Harrs fa:d. 11 j
ajrain repeat that 1 an. innocent of the
' charges' made again!! ; rby Kr. Nici.ol
fori, and that a ' bribe' v. a; farthefl ii <,;n
my thoughts." I pon which for. Kicholf'onobserve.', " I am not infallible, and might
po'libiy have mistaken his inteiitions."
After cne above expressions; Mr; Nichol
fon f.iid, '• As Mr. Hani, had made theft
declarations at a time when he might have
1 Hen, •• he now declared he did not believe
that Mr. Harris intended tobribe him,"
It is to be obfen'e J, that the above expref
did not fall from either Mr. Harris or
Mr. Nieholfon with any expectation, or de
lire,of an accommodation; nor would they
agree to 'nay 1 terms of accommodation
until they were repeatedly allured by ih
gentlemen present, that the above were
perfectly honourable to each party.
SAMUEL WRIGHT,
JAMES HOUSTON
JAMES WE E.MS, M. D.
Attending Surgeon.
George-Town, March 17, 1793.
foreign intelligence.
LONDON, Feb. 40. to—March 7.
Copy of Mr. Fox'_s motion in the House ol
Commons, on Slond y the iSih Feb.
lit. " That it is not for the honor and
interest of Great-Britain to make war up
on Fravrce, on aceount of the intern il cir
cunlta ices of that country, for the purpose
of either suppressing or pit lilhing any opin
ions or principles, however pernicious ir
their te ulency, which may prevail there,
or of eltablifhiug among the French peo
pie any particular form of government.
2d. " That the particular complaint!
which have been ftarcd against the condufl
of the French government, are n;>t of a na
ture to ju'tify a war. in hefi. it lftance
without having attempted to obtain redref
by negotiation.
3d. " That it appears to this house ir
the late negoci tions between his majesty';
mini.ters and the agents of the French go
vernment, the said ministers did not take
such measures as were likely to obtain re
dress, without a rupture, for the grievance;
of which they complained, and particular
ly, :h t they never stated diftinSly to the
F ic ,»vernhieht any terms and cpndi
tio.is, the accession to which on the par 0}
Trance would induce his majesty to perse
vere in a fyftein of neutrality.
4th. " That it tloes not appear that the
feciirity of Europe, and the rights of inde
pendent nations, which have been Hated a
grouads of war agamtl France, have beer
intended by his majesty's minilters in the
cafe of Poland, in the invasion of which un
happy country, both in the late war ani'
more recently, the molt open contempt oi
the law of nations, and the molt unjuftifia
ble f,)irit of aggrandizement have been
m inifefted, without having produced, a:
far as appears to this house, any reinon
itrance of his majesty's ministers.
sth. " That it is the duty of h?s majes
ty's ministers, in the prefe.it crisis, to ad
vise hi« majesty against entering into en
gagements which may prevent Great-Bri
ta'ri from making a ijeparate peace, when
ever the iitereft of his majesty and his
people nav render luch a measure advife
abl , or which may countenance an opin
ion wi .urope, that his majesty is acting i
concert with other powers, for the 11 ijufti
ti ible onrpofe of co mpelling the people of
Fr ; 1;e to sub lit to a form of government
not a iproved by :hit nation."
she previous question was put on th.
four la It.
Poof Paine (in effigy) has fuffered uni
verfal'ma-tyrdom—at parish and corpora
1 on itleitings he has been condem led by
bell, book, and candle—and punished with
fire and faggot I all which he has fupportec
with the phiiofophic patience of an arc'i
Ki moo —in snort, 110 primitive martyr could
h ivc borne a tittle of the hanging and burn
i.i-r he has <Tl>ne I—in one parish he was
burnt for being a Prelbyterian—in another,
for being a Jacobite —in a third, for being
a Popish Jefuit —and in a fourth, for beitu'
nothing less th in the Devil hiinfelf I —Tho'
we do aos fnbfcribe to so black a charge at
the latter 1 , yet we cannot help thinking he
mull be fomethirig more than man, who,
at the close of the eighteenth century, can
work such wonders limply by the magic
incantation of a---goofe-quiH I
An equivocality in the conduit of the
Ottoman porte had been for some time
,perc ptible by several of the foreign minis
ters, after they discovered that the Turkish
miniflry held secret communication with
the French emissaries of the predominant
party. These suspicions were at length
fully verified in the conduit of the porte
towards M. de Choifeul ; his person was
e-tpofed to the cruellelt insults ; and it is a
fact, that hi", person wpuld have been ar
retted if he had not been apprised of't in
time, and saved himfelf in the house ofM.
Gurftow, the Ruffian minister.
Since this period the Ottoman ministry
have made 110 secret of the valt project
which they attribute to the French, viz.
that of re-eftahlilhing the ancient empire
'of the Khans of the Crimea. At lealt
whether the Porte will appear in this, af
fair or not, there is no doubt bur that they
w il! jrant a free paflage to a French fleet,
who are to ast against Ruflia, as one of
their enemies who assist the league of kings
. > n't the new republic. However un
founded ar\y ps these reports may be, it is
certain, that the dlfpofitioii cf the Turkiih
court i; at prefenc higiiiy in uvour of the
French.
PARI S, Feb. it.
As the opening of the campaign ap
proaches, otir attention is tur leii from our
internal aninlofities to the external enemy.
The molt vigorous efforts to recruit the
army are maki.ig both by the miniftersand
hy individuals. We may be beaten, but
ive (hail not be out-numbered. Europe
iVill foot! fee with what unanimity those
inns, which, when left to ourfclyes vv.e are
jut too ready to turn againlt one anorher,
a ill be turned against the common enemy-
The committee of le°;i{lation proposed
his morning, that those persons in cultody
"or being engaged in iiHurrections on ac
.ount of the dearnefs of lhouid
>e released. After some debate, tile Con
tention decreed a general a'mnefly for all
jffeHces of this description previrysto the
execution of the late king, murder and
turning honfes only excepted. Merlin ob
Mined an exteniion of the ajnnefly to all
offences committed in oppohtion to claims
if feudal rights. *
The ( onvention is now debating the
ilan of the military committee for recruit
■lg and nationalizing the ar is.
putting an end to all distinction betweei:
troops of the Ine and volunteers. Both
Puche and Roland are talked of for the
Mayoralty. The former is said to have
obtained a majority ot the votes in fevers
Pe&iuns.
The citizens of Marseilles have made a
contribution of I'pecie of a million of li
tres for the support of tliß war. General
Biron is on his way to take the command
as the army of the Var, in the room ol
General Anfelme. He will probably viiit
Toulon and Marseilles, and give additional
iftirity to the naVal armaments at those
ports. As he pafied through Avignon,the
procurator of the commons, in an address.
alluding to the execution of one of his an
:eftors b/orderof Henry IV. said, "none
snew better than the Birons, that the molt
lirtuous of kings Was a sanguinary ingrate.
We are flattered with hopes that none ol
La Touche's squadron foundered in the
Mediterranean; the most of the fliips and
ranfports have joined Truguet ; and thai
he object of the expedition, the couquefl
>f Sardinia, will soon be atchieved. Sucl;
it lead is the fnbftance of our account
from Nice, which add, that the Piediuon
tefe have been very active in attacking the
Trench polls, and give details of various
Ikirmilhes, in which the latter w£re vic
torious.
We have areport that Dubuc and Clair
fontaine,agentsf'rom Martinico and Guade
loupe, have concluded an agreement with
:he Britilh ministry, for putting these ill
ands under the protection of Great-Britain
n trnft for Louis XVII. and that Bonilh
is to be furnifhed with transports aiul a
:onvoy to carry Boooemigrants to St. Do
mingo, where he is to a flume the title ol
Governor General of the French Well-
India Colonies.
\DDR.Essfrom the Prince de Conde, tc
the French Nobility, on the 14th
January, 1*793.
"In the time of the public calamities to
wards the end of September, it was-par
tin table to apprehend they were without
1 remedy.- In the bitterness of my heart.
1 \va- deeply afflicted at the dreadful fate
which menaced the French nobility ; anc
I conceived it as my duty, to foften it ti
the ntmoft of my power. ,
"I entrufied the Duke de Ricnelien wit!
a letter to the Empress of Rullia, vvhereii
I requelied of that illuftrlous fovereisrn
whether in cafe ot the absolute wreck"ol
the French nobility, some Aire afyium ir
Tome temperate clime of her dominion
might not be found.
" The magnanimity of Catharine footi
decided on the conduct (he ihould adopt,
and I have jult received the molt flattening
answer for myfclf, and the most jult and
the most honorable towards yoj, which is
replete with fentinients that must impress
all Europe with your courageous perfeve
rence, and your attachment to the most
unfortunate of kings.
" It is unnecessary, gentlemen, for me to
fay, that the profpetf which the beneficence
of the Empress opens to our view, ought
not in the lead either to diininifli your
grateful aknowledgments for the favour;
you have received from the Emperor, 01
your ardor in seconding his troops in that
noble plan, which he has doubtiefs formed
in re-instating the king of France upon
the throne.
" Should we fncceed in our views, our
wiflies will be f 111 tilled ; fliould we have the
misfortune to fail, which may God avert;
all those who have trod in the path of ho
nor, of whatever condition they may be,
wiil find an afyium, aflitlance, pofleffions se
cured to them, their families and their te
nants.' '
For National Gazette.
V/j"R- FOX intimates in one of his late
- 1 speeches, that War is the natural pas
sion otmen, and (he feared) would always
continue to be lb,—lt may well be quel-
tioiud, however, whether this propensity
Is not rather artificial than natural, and in
troduced thro' the vice oi governments ra
ther t'y.in iintill eci into the human constitu
tion ihr<;' the imoiedisUre deflgn <> the fcre
. tor. Man is naturally unprovided with
dangerous offenlive weapons.' The ha ..
v/as evidently designed for the works of
peace, the efforts of industry for the sup
port of life, the operations of beneficence,
and not for he dels ruction of tlie fpccies.
" God has made man upright, but he has
fought out a variety or inventions." We
may observe in several Qaccies of the brute
creation native propensity winch some
philcfophers fuppuife inherent in man. A
young bull,or a goat,for instance, will per
lorm their mode of military exercise with
the head, before there is the leuftappear
ance of those oftenlive weapons, the horns;
and a whelp-lion will go through all the
formality of roaring, tearing, anc rending
I efore the claw has firmhefi or lharpnefs
enough to inflifl the l't all puffible injury.
But in the young of the human species, we
observe 111 their general temper luMocenie
of heart, finiles, gratitude, benet olenpe,
and affecti'on,which continue till such times
as they become corrupted by faile princi
ples of education, and faife motives of ac
tion, \v hich pave the way for their tui ning
mouifers to cach other in rijwr years, un
der t!ie discipline and example of the great
Ichoolof royal government.
The very virtues of monarchy haye all
a cruel and fariguinary tendency, and ex
cit<? the human mind to perpetrations oi
mifchief and horror. An extravagant o
ver-partial love of country is hi ft inculca
ted; ambition, emulation, and super-emi
nence are made the incitements to nffion ;
a lavage revenge of injuries, artfully pro
voked by court-magicians, against one 01
the other country, is encouraged and re
warded by the crowned sovereign. Mon
archy originated in murder, violence and
robbery ; what wonder then, if in all ages
its violent adherents have been and i till are
111 eftect, murderers and robbers, and that
kingly government, from the nature of its
prerogative's, I'ooner or later, winds up in
afcene of horror and tumult. Monarchy,
or the monarchical principle ioifled into
republics, is the fuel that supports the flame
as discord in this world, tnat set; man a
g -inil man to their mutual definition, and
operates that seeming degeneracy in hum.,
nature which is by lome fuppoltd to have
originated from a particular event in a re
mote period of the history of in. 11. Upon
the whole, we may fafely conclude thai
man is naturally good, but that his fpecic
has been vitiated and debafcd bv prepoTte
i-ous modes of government, which have
well nigh effected a ferond nature, through
so long a fuccefSon 01 ages. Whether a
yltem of pure democracy, universally dif
iifed (after the heads of all kings are lop
jed off) will work the desired reformation,
.s an experiment yet to be tried ; but il
:here is virtue enough among mankind
:o give it fair play, it will molt probably
"ucceed.
April iS.
For the National Gazette.
Mr. Freneau,
pROM the condui* of some foreigner.
among us, J should be led to suppose
hat Pennsylvania was a British Province,
ind that British opinions and British mea
ures were the oracles of our country—
ieer houses, taverns, and places of pub
■c resort are filled with their panegyric:
upon the measures of the British admini
stration,and our good allies the French arc
jranded with every felonious epithet In-
Jecent liberties are even taken with some
us our jnoft patriotic characters ;- liberties
perhaps less libellous than brought the 1111
fortunate Lloyd to the pillory, in-the very
h..ir.ai:e government of Great Britain—
The toleration of such abuses is a disgrace
Co'our national character, more efpeciallv
« they arise from men who were enemies
to our independence, and would have con
tributed theirfull measure of afliftance tc
fix the yoke upon our necks with which
they wiln to oppress France. What were
\ve during the war, in thepolite language
of Englifhinen but --rebels, fq/cals,rabscal
tions,murderers" —What are our allies
now but men of the fame flamp, and this
character is not improbably given to them
for the afliftance which they gave us to
break Britijh fhac/tles—Why should the
fame king bean object of their sympathy
and commiseration now, that they execra
ted but a few years ago, and whose .fami
ly and government they would have extir
pated from the face of the earth ! Their
enmity to France is invincible, and the
caule of that inveterate enmity mayperhaps
be traced to their alliance with us But
whatever language Britons may use in their
own country, and whatever conduct they
may pursue there to gratify their malice
against their republican neighbours, the
gratitude and spirit of Americans revolt at
such indignities here*—We owe France a
debt which we can never fully repay, it i»
the price of our liberty, and ought ever to
impvefs 11s with as much attachment to
her as abhorrence to Great-Britain, for
her merciless condutt to us during the re
volution—Shall it already be blotted from
our remembrance that the ,'rei.cii and
American armies united befn/cYorktowit
li l;e a band-os brothers to arrest the rava
ges and crueltiei of Briiijh exrcalh-.crs >
SiiailAve cirefs the nation' -vliti invented
new epithets to disgrace, and new torments
0 afflict ns, to tiie prejudice of the gene
rous and humane people wfio ftreTchtd
out their friendly hands to flop the inbtt
iiian faerifi'cesiof Britons ? Where is the
generous ar.d grateful ardor which anima
ted Americans alter the reduction ofCorr
wallis ? Not transfer'd, I truit. to a nation
who have (lamed the ermine of luimanitv
witlrthe foulett crimes, and have frolicked
ove.r the miferie* of a people ftrn for
tkeir birth.right ! Ihai a 'I it- '■
ne<s the execrations ofßritoftt Wf'our,faith
ful aliie-s ; fli .il it bear te'.iniony ; > t e
bitterilt invectives,fuch as cut throats,rob
bers, murderers &c. without that manly
indignation and rebutment which fueh at
trocious insolence merits? Briton, bew are,
Americans are grateful andjuft as well as
holpitable, their contempt u.ay be conver
ted into rage, and the reward of vonr in
solent temerity may at length Acrtake
you.
AN OLD SOLDIER.
April 17, i 79 :.
NEW-YOKK, April 15. \
S 1 " 1 to the 'in-.-s of the friends V
of J., u .rt ut- rdly ball*men, pro
tectee! by tile 1; .... 0 f a plentiful re
pubiicau cour..- v. ci. ,Ie forward ill public
company, arte. : L -e, enlightened, and
generous people, whoso ro H ijtry hereto
loie flowed with the blood ol H'arren,
l>' 7 the relt o; the htroes and
American worthies, who ginrieuflv Ml
In opposing the unlawful claims of a king ;
lay i: all the refute oi the human spec «,
1 ie enemies of man (I mean the friends
..lid advocates of kings and despots), dare
Higmat'ze the French nation in the hearing
ot American patriots, with tne cruel epi'-
thets of murderers, afiaffins,fli<diiien, ,e. i
cides, and the like, fcr Louis
,v\ I Do these ignorant prejudiced
wretches not remember, that the French
nation's moderatioa and p.-.rtialiiv for
Lours exceed every thing that "111 reason
could have been expected from a people
emerging from the vilest ft; te of flaverv,
(in which they-had been kept for a«es pail
by king-craft : nd_prieft craft tinifcdl to
the pinnacle of importance and power ;
nave they not fuffitiemly proved then* at
laihmeiit to him, byerafmg from theirinc
mories the remembrance ofthcir late bon
dage and part grievances under a brood of
kings, and confirming him in the regal
power? In forming, their conflitiirion,
have they not given him fufficiejit author}-
ly ami fuppurt ? Did they not make tie
crow 11 hereditary his faimlv, if ihey
would prove themselves worthy ? Was
there any thing neceifary lor the honor
andl dignity of the king of a free people,
(it such can c xift under a king) but was
granted him ? How has he requited them
for their predilefliou in his favour? Did
he not bn . k tne folcmn oaths he had taken
and (acred vows he had made, to be faith
ful to the nation, and govern it agreeable
to the conilitution he had accepted ? Did
he not openiy despise the love of the nation
lor him, 111 attempting repealtdly to fly to
the enemy ? Did he not support the emi
grant princes (rather.davil.s_j and their ai
my composed ol .1 species of beittir:, not far
chltant from the brute creation, raised in
the principalities ot despots, with an intent
to enter France with fire and Avoir? Pa
tience vvomd fail me, indignant horror
would overwhelm me, and 'the callous
heart of a Hessian, or an uncouth S n,
would Ihudder to enumerate all the art.;,'
hypocrisies, perjuries, murders, con-
I piracies. i-.c &c. that Louis and fc.s bale
adherents have been guilty of, to eftla a
counter revolution in favour of defrmtifm,
" hich he well knew could not be done but
by the elFufion of blood.
O ! cuffed third for 'absolute power
ou offspringpf hell, and companion of
Kings, how deceitful are thy i'alfe charms
to swerve men from their duty to God and
mail : but, nothing is plealing to God,
which not ufeful among men, conse
quently in Louis, (for the lirft, was vri
hed an old Proverb, " Evil ro him, t h„t
evil t.nnks, 111- m other words, he that de
vifeth the blood ot the innocent in his
heai t, (as Louis did) ihail fall by the J word
of the jtilf.
It is laid by some.that Loui; w as the be It
Icing the French had lince He> -
ry IV— granted, but that doe* 'not ~r ov 'e
him to have been a good cue, for (a:: of
100 arrant vil ains, one no doubt is "nu r
humane than the felt, though all vcrv I. u . <■
Did'he not know there was a bafrile
engine of terror to awe hit fubjea ; ? v'.'i, y
rlid lie not demolilh that fabric r.f cr , ■ ~
the grave and receptacle of innocent me,l
doomed to dellruJion, perhaps u en torn
from the arms of" a beloved wife and the
offsprings of afFeffou ?In word, we th'i:.:;
Louis has provtd himfelf unworthy <>f
honor the French in;ended him, that is, of
being their king. And let fame of their
base caltimniatorr rerccinh- r, that 1: is
more honourable to put a king to death for
good and fiifficient reafoiis, "'tl .11 to fell
him foh 4d. a man. And let fine more
of them think that but a few y*ars ago,dnri - t the Air.? "lean war, if t hey bad had
Loni;'i i England they would luve (erved
ii ill ii thev did M. de Lainot, tor lending
form tr.-tiin* information into Oltend, a
neutr d cou itry.
•' Ycllerday arrived from Calcutta, af
ter apaffaije of tour montus and 15 days,
the finp America, Captain Bright*
Bythis arrival we have received accounts,
thai Tippoo Saib has so far complied with
the requisitions of the treaty, as tu pay two
pagodas of the three which lie was to pay
F.ng 1 ill; Tippoo j two lons a,..
Hill remaining at Calcutta.
It ape irs that the fticcefs of the Englilr
a-raimt' nvpoo,-waspnucipally attributed
to the bravery ot jtMTie Americans (about
60 :-i":)-«tiber),-\vho were officers in the
army of Lord Conjwallis. These Ameri
ca 1■; ware taken dur.mg the late war 111 A
inVrica, fen over to London as prii'oners,
"iid from thence, sent to the East Indies as
pivate '.oldiers; where, by their good con
duit they were promoted.
It was fnppofed in India, when the Ame
rica came away, that Tippoo certainly
would mke another attempt 011 the Eng
- li a t -.eh 'ft favourable opportunity. 1 his
re'We" i nhitions man appears tar from
b1 fatistied with the late treaty, and it
■ fVgnch were to thinly ot an attack up
on the- j lilh fettlepVents in India, Tip
bo-> nould be a powerful friend to thein,
I) l,<\ tbe fatal to the!: a fph.
A number of American vtiiels had r_ilec
for O i?nd, laden with fugir, when the
America came away.
The Am ric.i's cargo consists almost en
tirely of sugar.
Extract of a letter to a rcfpeitable mer
"e\'iitile house in this city, dated Fal
mouth, Feb. Ij, via Philadelphia.
The Enclifh governme it havn' lately gi
ven i'i per barrel for flour, and in pro
port' 5 " 1 or wh£at, to'Sie landed in Greai
Britain, (b u omy by American bottom*
tiiey , intinne to parchafe thereat and the
French agents alio. We are la.idirtg her,
so ne cargoes fold to our government, anc.
others we are about to forward to France,
by order of our orre^ondents; prices keej:
lip in S,l lin and Portugal. so that we think
the cargoes expected, will lell wel., unlel.
our eoverjinient ihoukl.ceaft to purchase.
We fold a few d-iys since, a cargo ot 2 c
ton i of flour, at 345. per barrel, (uperfine,
aid vs tine. If the war continues we ex-
D-d American vslL-lswiU get good flight,
v , emb -.r-ro is laid 0:1 all Enghlh veli-U.
20th Feb. Li said that our government
hope to buy under 34s per barrel "
PHILADELPHI A.
Apr.ii- 20.
It is said the State of Delaware is to be
invited to an union with Pennfylvama ant
Mar/iand, for the purpose ot removing the
obftrttfiioiis in the Sufquehan.ia, and ren
d-ring that river navigable through its le
ver irbrancbes to the tide water ot the
Chefapeke ; and of opening a communica
tion between the bay of Chefapeke and the
river Delaware, by means ofa canal, whicl
it i, faid,ne«,ds scarcely exceed eight mile:
in length to accomplilh so important a.,
object.
In our paper of January 26, under the
Philadelphia bead, mention was made of
the brig A. B. C. Capt. Bartlett, (bound
from Cape Fear to the Chefapeke) having
ftriuk Oil Cape Lookout Shoals, 011 the e
vening of the Bth of December lalf, and in
that lit Ition being abandoned by her ere w,
who with difficulty, saved themselves in the
boat, and arrived fate on the main beach,
to or 11 miles iiorthweftward ot theipot
where the misfortune happened.—lt since
appears, tnat the brig, alter being deserted
by' her crew, drifted from th« flioal 111U1
deep water, upon the riling of the tide,
without having received any damage i and
was soon after met with 40 leagues eatt
ward of the continent, by an EiifiMb vetiel,
who put a mailer and 5 or 6 feainen 011
board. She has since arrived fate at the
i[land ofGueriifevin the Englilh channel.m
good condition, with 275 lilids. ot tobacco
on board, a quantity of hides, indigo, &c.
—I* rom all which it that the
crew, by whom (lie was abandoned, fut
fercd themselves to be frightened befoic
they were hurt.
From the result of several curious expe
riments made by i\lr. Blanchard in h;s as
cent on the 9th of January bit, it appears,
thUt when he was at the height oi 5812 feet
from the furface of the earth, he found,
from the mean result ol several obferva
> tinns, 02 jn; Isa lions of the as teries in lac
space of a minute; whereas, on the ground
f>»nly 88 were bbfervable in the fame time.
—With a Ipadttone, which on the earth
raffed five pounds and an half weight, a
voirdupoife, Mr. B!anchard,at the height
:;t)Ove mentioned, found its power scarcely
-fufficicnt to raise 4 ounces. —The highefl
elevation in this aerial voyage was 968 fa
thoms 4 feet ; or i mile 532 leet.
An Alexandria paper gives a particular
detail of the improvements made and ma
king in the navigation of the Potowmack,
above the tide water. 4t Boats are now
xoiuinuaiiy palling from Cumberland to
and from the interior fe.tdementS; and it is
computed that f rom l'ii:(?en to twenty lho»i
---fanci barrels of Hour, besides iron, tobacco,
arid wheat, will be brought down the Po
towniack, through its improved navigation,
•ii the courfs ol the prcfert year. The
town of Cumberland ii said to be rapidly
growing, and the country about it iucx'eal
mg fait 111 inhabitants."
The public works carrying on in the city
of Wafhiiigton now employ iio men ; and
about as many more are occupied in erect
ing private dwelling Jioufcs, mills, &c. and
making other improvements in the vicinity.
Do£tpr Samuel Ho'.ten, is elected fede
ral representative from the State ofMaf
fachufetts.
We hear from the eaftvvaril, that Petes
Colt, Kiq. treasurer of the date of Con
necticut, is appointed fnperintendant of the
manufactory at Paterfon, New-Jenfey, with
i salary of two thoul'and dollars a year ;
which appointment he has accepted.
"The plan of a New Confiitution for the
Republic of France, we are informed, was
to have been laid before the French' N
ational Convention oil the 15th ofFebruary.
On Monday the sßth of January, Lord
Seorge Gordon appeared in the EngitO)
:ourt of kings bench, for the purpose of giv
[iig bail for his good behaviour for the term
us 14 years (according to his sentence in
17 38 ;) the bail he offered proving infuffi
cient (neither of them being worth more
than 100 I.) his lordship was remanded to
Newgate till futiicient bail could be had.
There is a report current (said to have
arrived frpm the V\ eft Indies, by way of
New-London) that the inhabitants of
Guadaloupe and Martinique had surren
dered those islands to the Englith, and that
Britilh flags were displayed on the forts of
both islands.
Opt. Dixon, a celebrated Englilh sea
comm uider, and well known for his cir
cumnavigator)' voyages, upon a late vilit
to Bermuda, fixed the latitude of St.
Georpe's, in tnat island, from the mean
refult"of a number of accurate observati
ons to 32 deg. 22 min. 20 seconds, N. and
longitude 64 deg. 33 min. W.—He advi
les navigators steering in a parallel of la
titude for Bermuda, to prefer 32 dcg. 8
mill, inllead of 32.25. as generally laid
down in the printed tables.
The Earl of Dorchelter (Sir Guy Carle
ton) is the person mentioned as appoifted
ambafi'idor from the Englilh court to the
United States, and maybe daily expe£ted.
Extract of a letter from London, dated
February 6,
" I have herewith sent you a package
of papers ; you will fee in them nothing
but mifreprcfentations of French affairs,
as all the pfepers in London are at open
\ ar witn the French, except two, viz. the
1 M6rning Chronicle,' anil the • Argus'.
You will fee in those which I have sent
you, the debate upon war with France ; it
has been carried without .1 division, and in
three days, from this date, "War againlt
France' will be declared in London. This
nicht, imprefling took place all over Eng
land, a certain forerunner of a bloody
war : We are much attached to a monar
chical government and the very idea of a
republican; sickens parliament, as well as
the low and illiterate, the latter of wljom
are very numerous here. All the enlight
ened, independent, and dilinterefted part
of the kingdom, are againlt going to war
with France, and I think very justly too ;
why Ihould England, that is called a ' free
country' with to maintain its own liberty,
and, at the fame time, endeavor to destroy
that of another country ? This T will as
sert, that there is not the smallest iota, or
the leaff veltige, of that boasted freedom
to be found in England, which is so indus
triously, and so poir.poufly, difTcminatcd
throughout the world. Some objects at a
distance, appear more desirable. than when
closely obfei ved. My de; r fir, our gov
ernment are in the greatest dread and ter
ror, left the French ll'ould be as good as
their word, that is, of landing ijo.ooo men
on our coafl, which they positively sent us
word they would do, if we should make
war, and join the combination of tyrants
ar;ainft them. I can allure you, were filch
a lircumftance to take place, they would,
in the courfeof three days, find their num
ber.! increased to 600,000, as the republi
can party in this country are very numer
ous and determined, and I hope will in a
short time follow the glorious example of
their Gallic neighbors. I think by the time
you receive this, that Dumourier will be
in poffeliion of Amlterdam, & very likely
of the seven United Provinces. Heis now
very near being at O.tend, only waiting to
hear the refill t of the British court respec
ting war—he is a brave General, a worthy
man, and the verj' quintef ence of a repub
lican. I am sorry for De la Fayette —he is
(till a clofeprifoner.—Now is the time for
America to (hew her gratitude to her
friendly ally France. Now is the.lime to
afiift iVi the (truggles for liberty. I expect
before I die. to-fee #he time, when kings
will be very ftarce in Europe."
It i: remarkable (fays a correspondent)
that the militarv successes, or misfortunes
of the Fren claret he thcrmcmeter of Ha
ttoial re ; \r". ;1 i r i this country. ' Dum fe
bene res geruut' (fays the proverb) ' inul
tos nunit'i übis amicus'. While a man is
prosperous, all the world are liis friends :
when ctherwife, all the world join in
trainpling him under foot. On the 14th
of July Lit, the anr.iveifary of the immOr
ml French revolution, fcatcely a hundred
persons could be found to meet together
to celebrate (and that in a very humble
manner t>oo) this interesting event. But
110 sooner did the news arrive of Dumour
ier's fticceffes in Flanders than toasts were
every where drank, and tons of wine puz
zled down to " the brave defenders of the
rights of men."—Now again, when the
nation hasfour,d it ' nectlfary' to cut oh
their king's head, nothing but execrati
ons againit the French are heard from the
united shrieks of a monarchical junto ir
this country ; and the political thermo
meter is fallen low, alrnoft to the freez
mg point. JBut, should ' the despotic com
bination'be again defeated, the enfm !
summer, wcMTiay expeiS the mercury w.i
rife to blood-heat ; and thus, in ail pi ba
bility a certain set will go 011, ." to follow
ilill where fortune leads the w \"—to tilt
disgrace of national chnrafter, and the re ;
publican.laurels so honourably acquired ir
the late war.
Extract of a letter Ir- m Dublin. Feb. i"
" The people here ire exceedingly dif
contented with the r representation 1
parliament, and the weight of taxes the)
are obliged to bear Indeed there is now
every appearance of m :iters coming to i
crilis—by the few papers 1 fend, you mo)
form some id-ea of the popnl ir ferment ,
li nd of the withes of the people;-! large
li' these willies are not compl 'd will:
! which I doubt) the consequence ir.av b.
fatal.
" Trade and bufinefsj of every kind are
llmoftir: rely put a flop to. Banks and
Honied men are afraid of a revolution,
jnd will not discount the very bell l>THi
:hat are produced to them. The confe
rence i that fever: 1 very
louses have ■nd will be l'ged to ii'o' l
payment.—The con 'trypeople are'making
no remittances; exp :ting, I suppose,
oon to pay their debts in an ea ; manner-
Such, my friend, arc tlie lament ble effects
if a government u hich reft , for
lot on the many, but the ft w ; a govern
ment. under which the great lass of the
people have been long fubje-cted to every
ippreflion an.l indignity that aristocratic
nfoience could impoie upon them. Wher
uch a people are driven to th. 1 last defpe
raterefource of the wretched, to burst
:heir bands by force, how horrible the con
sequences that must eufye.
" Revenge of accumulated wrongs can
not fail, on fiich oocafions, to hurry an ig
norant multitude far beyond those bounti
ivithin which.. in the eye of reason and
noderation, they ought to confine them
"elvps. tt is strange that men in power
will not forefee these confequencas, and
juard againfi them, by making it the inte
: eft of the people to 'iipport the govern
ment untler which they live."
By accounts f rom Holland, the natural
deftnee of that country is to be applied to
in cafe of invasion. Great trails of the
lands of the states general were already
laid under water, and precautions taken
for the fame purpose, 011 the rivers and
different states of Zeland. On or about
the middle of February, the Dutch patri
ots and their adherents who have been in
a ltate of banishment ever since the year
1787, assembled at Antwerp, where they
formed into a legion called the Dutch le
gion, meant to attend C.en. Dumourier in
his attack upon Holland.
Upwards of three tiioufand pieces of
larL;e cannon have been shipped from Eng
land into Ireland during the late winter,
with the greatefl train of field artillery
eyerfent to that country since the expedi
tion of king William. These, with 50,000
troops, it was thought would be fufficient
to secure the dependence of Ireland upon
Great-Britain.
According to letters from England, the
government was buying up American fu
perfine fiour the middle of February, at 345.
Ilerlingper barrel ; and a price in propor
tion for wheat, to~be landed only in A me
rican bottoms."—Fine flout/was at the fame
time felling at 325. the barrel. In Spain
and Portugal the price of these articles was
alio kept up.
The fame letters mention great commo
tions in the north of Ireland. As their last
peaceable measure, the people were ap
pointing delegates to draw up and present
a petition to the king, to be relieved f rom
fuudry grievances and opprefiions.
It is slated in a letter from Port au
Prince (March 13) that owing to diflenti
011s in the army, and the continual deser
tions that were taking place, the negroes
were again getting pofleflion of the plains
in thot neighbourhood, and it was thought
would put the finishing stroke to the pro
perty left in that quarter. A demand had
b en made 011 all maflers of vefiels in the
harbour tofurnifh one third of their crews
to go out against. tlie insurgents ) which
was not complied with, and in revenge no
Vessel was si life red to leave the harbour-
It is stated in a letter from Cette, in the
south of France, that an embargo was laid
on the flipping of all nations in that port,
on the jtfi of February . Tli.?rc were tl.etr /
iix Eoglilh and twelve ptitch trading vef-
Pels.in Cette harbour, and upwards el _ic.o
fail weri> in several adjacent ports, ail of
u liich it was thought would he ftiitd, in
consequence of the declaration of war.
" We learn from good authority (fays a.
letter from Madrid, dated Jan. 27) that a
treaty ps neutrafity was this day iigiied
between France and Spain.—The court
went into.mourning'for the death of Lonis,
to continue three months."—lt was the
general opinion at Cadiz about t:.e li; It c.i
March, that if Spain took an • >e p irt ii»
the w ar,it would be I; - : favourof the l'i ciitb,
as the Spaniards w ere confident their forte
was not fufiicient -to oppose the progress of
:he French to the very capital, it invaded
oy iand. The body of the Spanish nation
was so inimical to England, as to induce a
relief, that if the king of 1 pain declarec!
ivar, it would cost him his herd.' Twelve
ail of the line were in cominifr.on at Ca
:liz, but few or no sailors could be pfocu
td to ma:j them, and the court did not
jare toifiue press-warrants.
EXTR A C T S
From French papers, to Feb. 5, i
Paris, Jan. 28. It is to be be wifhe'd
:liat periect tranquility may soon be re
lercet within our wails. An apparent
'lni is now prevalent, : ~'Se ft . dfi 01
ear and disquiet. People are coilftantly
,n lear of feeing a repetition of thedread
ill Iceues of the 10th of August a".d tile
dos September, when the i inr ' To-c •
cignty oi the people 1 wreakc .evince
ipon the lia\eo oi lift.n.;rchy 1 rr.,nc.':il'i
y,' however, feerns to bf on t'<e ..in ' T
land, but our relative fit:;:-o 'i ■. ~
3f.Eurl.pe is riot .1 little fieri on h v -
nid-i le preparations of F: 0 hj»
•ei rptiou Ihe has 31 vtto the eld minifier
Sreteuil, GemTrtl m-in ie, aiul the ci-cO;-
• ahtbifliopof Sc. Pol la Maiche j the ne-
Sociatior.s between the courts of London
11 -d Vienna ; and a number of other Cir
mftances fully prove that a" prodigi; 1 s
'ttulion of human blood, both 011 iaoel aiul
ea, will be one of the confequences'of tl.a
■ rench revolution. Piepar.tion ai'. "ov.'
joing on vigorously in ail our pvrt . 1
in iinmenfe land elfabiifliment is set oa
out tor J/93, no lefatha 502,000 men, of
.vhich 55,000 are to be cavalry and 20.-ccx>
irtiilery. We count touch u| c:: he latter,
• ■ it has hitherto, and w ill probably always •
*ive us a dei i r. e superiority Over oar c:>
;mies. who put their confidence principal*
y in their cavalry, which certainly merit..
:he highelt praises.—The means of fup
3orting and providing for fiuh an iminei.fo
'orce as France propose-to put on loot,
will occasion some deliberation. It ban
ieen proposed in the Convention to i - d
General Dumouricr so thetJ.lnifter Facte
11 the department of war, and Collot u'
Me.'boU to succeed Roland, ill the Vnteri
>r, whilst Cambon is named as financier-
Jen. Dumourier left this capital Tall
■veiling on a vilit to the wf'fiem frontier
jf Flanders,-ami to arrange his army for
:he ensuing campaign. The Austrian for
es are affembiing in great numbers on
:he fide of Cologne, and have joined tile
irmy under Gen. Clairfavt. Tiie Pruffia'll
irrny, wlnch is now on its march, ij to
:o-operate with troops that aretobefenc
rom England, to make a defcont on Flan
ders, with a view to reconquer the Auflri
-311 low countries, the inhabitants oi which
rre rather soured againfl the French fliice
the decree of the 15th of December. To
oppose the combined attack of so many
powers, and at the fame time maintain
our own superiority, troops have been
:lifpatched daily, for several weeks part,
m great numbers to the Belgic provinces :
but while this qnarter is well secured, the
the tipper Rhine is left, in a maimer, de
fencelefs.
2. It is very certain that Spain it deter •
mined to art agaiiilf us. Twenty ship,.-, of
the line and ten frigates are already luted
out ill her ports ; and from the connexi
ons that subsist between the Spanifli and
Engliflicourts, there is no doubt but f nr.
land v\ ill be added to the coalesced pow
ers. To make head againd so iinmenfe'a
combination as that which now threatens
us.it is proposed to fend every fifth 11 „n
in France to the defence of bis country
It is-even aliened that the municipalities
have received orders to postpone all mar
riage licenses, that a national militia im.y
be r.iifeel with the ntmort promptitude
The realon given for such violent mealurcs
are the fafety of the nation, which is the
supreme law ; and that to attain the tem
ple of liberty the temple of war mult fn ft
be pa fled l 1
tfi THE Contributors to the Public
School house of Cermantown are hereby .
notified that an annual ] leclion of Trui
ters for f.iid school, agreeable to charter
will be held 011 Monday theiixth of May
next. ''
JOSEPH FERR !;l, Sec.
April 18, 1793. ?
"N T~I: "d 7"
A Journeyman Printer,
Who can work at both cafe and pre I'
Apply to FRANCIS BAItXV*
T-o. 1 j 6, p.kiket-ftrcct.PHILADELPHI A.
The legiflniure of M iflachufetts at theii
lat' session appointed a commit ee to con
tider and report " 'nofar the common
wealth is filler directly or indircft y <if
f.ited by a late decifim of the Supreme
Judicial court' of the United Sl'i es, a
gainst the state of Georgia ; or how fat
any state is conltit utionall* r'efponfible 013
an action of de >t, or other action, infti
tuteJ by any individual of any oth.i
state.-"
The Committee reported,
TLa' the advanced (tage.of the session
lias precluded the poffi iiity of their pro
curing- authe ticated cojjy of 'hecaft
refer, sd so, and of the judgment upon it.
or of any documents of an official nature
to eluci ate or explain the conditions o!
important determination; the truth
of which they can find no leafon to con
trovert, though they are, as yet, unappri
zed or the true Hate of tiie circumitance;
attending it.
Thev therefore recommend, that his
excellency the governor be requested tc
procure an a.tested copy of the cafc anr
judgment aforefaid, with the opini ns 01
resiona of the court abovementione i, ii
funport of the fame, for use of the le
p (i iture, ,-.t their next session, in orde 1
th. t authen ic and leafonable i. formatiot
may be had upon this interesting fnbjeft
and proper attention paid to the fame.
The report was agreed to. In the house
of reprcfentacives it was lfo,
Ordered, That th e (eeretary be direftet
to olit ' 11 fr m the clerk of the sup em<
j : 'i ial ct/urt of tl.e United States, an at
tcli' d copy of the whole record of the caff
> - aii>it the state of Georgia, instituted ant
determined in the court aforefaid.
The folio- ing paragraph on this fubjefl
appeared in the Boston Indejendeni
Chson : CLE.
\Fr':n a Correfpondmt ]
I \v?.i p : eafed that the motion of Doc
tor Jarvis, for calling into view the late
extraordinary determination at the fupremc
ju !' ial con 1 1 of the United S.tates, against
a Oilier 1 ite, was not wholly unproductive,
'} he novelty of a overeign and indepen
dent ('ate being obliged to respond in a
curt of j (lice, confjfling, perhaps, of its
own citizens, is not lei's ft.iking than the
importance of the conftquences which may
! fnjt f oti an acquie cence in this stride
of authority, is interesting to every indi
vidual. For if execution is to be levie
on private property no man is ftfe ; ai, 1
if it be only extended to the pnfleffions ol
the commonwealth, it mufl produce greai
inconvenience, to fay no more.
When the persons in oppoCtion to the
acceptance of the new constitution hinged
oil the article tefpefting t e power of the
judiciary department being so vety exten
five and alarming as to comprehend ever
the state itfelf, as a party on an action ol
debt ; ih s was denied peremptorily by tht
Federalists, as an absurdity in terms. But
it is now laid, that 'he eloquent and pro
reasoning of the chief ji-ftice ha
trade that to be right, which "was at fiiil
doubtful, or impro er. But lam in hopes
to ie, this mirable vindication of a pow
er, v, even the Br t ill goternment ne
<'.1 yet flr.med over a lingJc colony in lyi
dcmiiiioi's, in order to my be ng fa sfiei;
tn this point—For at 'prrfent, I feel m:
thlpofi'ii-u to be pi a fed with any antici
pations I have formed on this ftibj. ft—l
CO Id have wi fried the senate had close,'
v.i'.h the [Sropofitiop of the house, to have
(Ornmitted this affair to the charge of the
lixec itive—for surely, a more important
quefti in has been n.-ver agitated in this
country. Bu: even the substitution of the
secret ry, in t ie room of the governor,
u i.leniure the acquisition of the papers in
reference to this quellian ; so that it will
not be 1 forgotten, or worked outoffi iit
at the next session.
[From an Engli'lh Paper.3
- i - 'tTfift 0: n ie'tcr from An Ir Ijh g ntleman
refi fr.nt in in Rome, ta his corrcfpondenl
m dated the t dtb vf ,
1793-
" Left you should Vie deceived by
publierurrouff, I thought proper to take
tip lie pe: , and give you an impartial and
genuine account of a popular tumult,
which taken pla e litre o*n the 13th
in ft. and which will ever be memorable in
the annals ol Rome. A Frenchman, by
name Bajffvilk, has resided here these two
months patt a.s a kind of ageut for the
French Convention, though he had no
credentials. lie was a man of good ad
dress, an eloquent speaker, and a greater
intriguer ; i t nad been Secretary to Mac
kmi, the French Ambaflador at Nap'es
for the ileiv republic of that infatuated
nation, and worked his way under one pr -
text or other, until he became very trou
btefortte a id obnoxious to the civ;! govern
ment here. He had been sent hither
with a letter of hanks from the Conven
tion to the pope tor having released the*
two French artids, who were irrtprifoned
here fqr having made two lajfu ri-licvvs
emblem itir figures, exprellive of the
French maxims of liberty and equality,
and trampling upon the tacred lymbols
of religion and its profetTors.
" 1 he I'rench fleet, conlifting of 45
fail, inciudi g 25 ol the line* bomb vefFJs
and rranfports, being ciifperfed by a dorm,
off Sardinia, on the 22el of December,
and t e admiral and vice admiral having
got back to Naples, difmalted and da
maged m ch, the; vice admiral la F1 )tte
came la Friday to Rome by polt, and
next morning waited on the Secretary of
Ot: te with dilpatches from the French re
pu lie, infilling on the pope's acknowledg
ing it omn'i forma the new republic, and a
ret ration of hi late manifedo concerning
the royal arms of '. ranee having been
lake 11 down by fle: Ith in the night time
wirhout his permission, and (he attempt to
put up the new arms of the republic,
which the military received orders to hin
der. This maniiedoof the pope was sent
not only to a 1 the foreign miniltcrs but
also to England throu h the Portuguese
miniderat London. La Flotte and Baf
ieviile threatened an in cafe the
pope came not into their mea'ures ; and
upon a refufal, they behaved like fierce
republicans, in a mod haughty and im
perious manner. On Sunday morning
they renewed their demands, and reminded
the pope of the fatal confluences if he
perlided in his former resolution Hii
reply was, that he had already s;iven his
answer. In the interim La Flotte and
Biifleville had rifolved upon putting up
the arms of the republic, and for this pur
pose wrote a card to the DiredW, by
name Digne, who refuted to comply with
out official orders, which were not com
municated to him. About three o'cl ck in
theaftmioon, La Flotte and Bafleville, the
latter with his wife & children, went out
•o take an airing in an hired coach, & dri
ving outside the great gate of Rome, cal
led delpopulo, they ordered the coachman
10 put up a French theee coloured coc
kade, wlijch some of the populace obser
ving on their return, ont;of tlum dopped
he ca riage, and compelled theeoachman,
ftcr some druggie to throw away the
cockade. Badeville offered them his purse
which they rejected with scorn, crying
out Viva laJida Catho/ica, See Bfleville
put out his hat. crying Viva la Liberta,
end ordered the coachman to gallop home.
He was followed to his house, and in an
inflaut the populace increaf d, and Rome
was in an uproar and ferment, nor were
:he military able io quiet the r mirn's,
especially wh-n the two ralh republicans,
on getting out of, the carriage, me aced
therp that Rome would pay for this intuit
the mob grew furious, broke- open the
dqors, and got into the apartments. Baf
fcville fire on them, and wounded three
01 four. Theii fury then knew no bounds;
a barber, with his razor, cut his belly
across'; he was brnifed, feared and woun
ded iu a defptrate manner. Five hundred
ot the military arriving between three and
fur in the evening, rescued him with
difficulty trom the hands of the mob, and
hrought him to the next guard house,
whe e every affidaice that funrery and
phyfi ■ could prescribe, were generouflv
' dminidered to him by order of the govern
ment. That night B tfleville called for a
clergyman to adminiltertohim the rites of
the church. The pope's vicar general, & se
veral eminent ecclesiastics attendedhiirt, &
lie departed this life in a very defervinguian
ner on Monday evening about seven o'
clock. The rcfillance m de, and the shots
fired by Baffeviile, afforded an opportunity
to the artful & cunning La Flotte tomake
his escape from the roof into an adjoin
ingpalnce belonging to the Marquis Pa
lombara, who let him down by a cord into
a hen yard, and there fee eted him for some
■ ime till a futher reinforcement of 3000
military coming to his atfiltance, he was
sent oft'by pod, at the pone's expence,
with Bade .-.lie's wife and children to Na
ples, to join, his 90 gun (hp there, and tef
tify to the world, thic Rome lhewid him
mercy & generality, when he was infultin^
and endeavouring by various means to
prejudice her to the utmolt of his power,
she mob was very riotous mo.t of Sunday
night, and let fire to the French Ac de
my. where they found and'b oke to pieces
i new itatue alluljye to the French max
ims of liberty and equality.—This noble
building r.-as f ived by the exertions of the
n lit.'ry, who ioou extingui!"he4 the flarr.es.
The fgnator of Rome, with #some others
of the nobility, courageously threw tl.em
[elves into the crowds, and harangued them
th great zeal. When the popi; was ap
prised of tile tumult, he dispatched fevera!
mefFengers to the 'populace, bif.ething
he,ti to defill from their tumultuous pro
leedinjs, an ! return pea.eably to tlieii
refpedtive abodes. He rep iired to St Pl'
ter's church, where he lay p oilrate in
jrayer, and bathed in tears, before the
Ittines of St. Peter and Paul —This had s
tioft poweifu effect on the mob, and foor
ifi'naged their fury ; for they flocked t<
St. Peters, to the a no'int of near 50,000
-ending 'he air, and echoing the heavens
with repeated (hnuts, for near an hour, o
r<ivi In Jida Catholica !
" It is conjectured here that Baflevilk
find La Flotte's behaviour, on tiie abovt
nee lion, was a manoeuvie to try the pulfc
)f the Roman people, and to discover
whether they were disposed Sor a revolu
ton and for adopting the modern Fr nch
nnxims of >iber y and equality, &c.
Prince A uplift us, the sixth f n'of our be
i ved f..v reign, i, here prcfent, tuiiver
ally efteemo.l, and never civoyed bettei
::eaith.—On Friday next all the English
jent'emen and la lies in Rome will dine to
xether iri public, in order to celebrate th<
queen's birth day. The principal nobilii)
hre are invited. The who'e is to enc
with a g*and concert, gala, &c."
ME : i KORGLVLj iLsJL OJt-iJiHf.,* .
April 1793.
D. b jßar. iTler. W.ni. Weather
9 . 0 30. cJ j 1 i W,Fcir.
1 3Q- 8 c jj\ s C udy.
Wtancjduy, 10. » 29. i> 5 50 vV. i air.
o c t; 6 do do.
Tbur/auy, 11. u jo. 1 3 .. 1\ ,V ..
3 3° ' 03 W. do
■r.tiuf, 11. 6 it,. 9* 54 i. Cl'.utiy.
3J.# _ ( I- Fair'
Saturday, 13. 6 lu. 9;j 49 . W -hair
3 c 62 W.. I do.
uJSay, 14. 0 29. i \l, t.l.'mr.
3 _J_ 7° S. { do.
Mcnduy, r 5 . 6 .9 - 45 TTTT kai7.
3 7 S5 J N. C.rWu,
~fu STPUBLI Slll uj '
[Fric-e ant quarter of a dollar J
THE
laws
UNITED STATES,
Pafied at" the latt ot Congress, whicf
complete vol: 11.
Publifbtd by Authority
A Complete INDEX is addr-d for the volume
Philadelphia— Printed by Childs & Swaine .
Primers of the Laws of the United States $ ant
I >ld by them at their Office No 20.9, Market-
S'tieet : also by the principal Bookleliers, whoti
go! I. is to be T-.ad,
To those Concerned in MILLS in ibi
United States.
QLIVFR EVANS, late ot" the ftite.oi
Delaware, iiilormy the public, that he
has removed to Philadelphia, No. 43-.
North Second-street, where he will thank
uily receive any applications for the ufeol
lis i'atent Improvements 011 Mills, and.the
"t oi mahurapturing flour. He will fur
lilh those who are not fufficiently acquain
ted with the principles of his improve
nenrs, with drawings and descriptions,
.ilat will enable them to erect all the
liferent machines necefi'ary to perform the
operations oi cleaning, grinding, boulting
uid ot boulting over the middlings or eoarfe
ileal, and grinding it over with the grain,
o as to ri.iiili all together, thereby niaking
:he greatest quantity of fuperfine flour thai
:hegrain will produce atone operation.
.Ie has b.'e.l at much expense ill colle£tin n
.lie aitle.-eat and mod aj>pr'ivtc4 conllruc
cions of mills and plans tor boulting. and
the quality, size, & manner of dre'.ling the
tiii.Htones, suitable to the power of the
mill, and qqai-.jy of they,-.in : & will aCifi
111 planning mills from the foundation, and
make drawings thereof, if required. He
lias for sale, boulting clothstend mill-ilor.e:-
■J the firft quality, at the lowelt prices,
which he will warrant. If the I'-ones prove
not good, they will be received again and
the colt of carriage paid Those who ap
ply for either stones or cloths, wU plea ft
to mention thepowerof the mill, /ize o
the boulting-reels, quality ot the grain,
and 0:1 what buCnefsit isco run. Order'
by poll, or other wife, will be as punauallv
attended to as if the parties were prffent '
Apri. xo. 3: , aw
Philadelphia, January 12, 1793.
MAT HEW -CAREY
Refpectrully informs the Citizens of the
United States, that the Mapsfox his
intended edition of
Guthrie's Geography
IMPROVED,
Are now engraving—and as fpon as a fyfiicient
number of them are finished, to secure a regular
lupply during the publication,which will proba
bly be early next Springs the work Will be put
to press.
Me returns his acknowledgments to the very
■ efpe<£lai»ie number or iublcribers, who have come
■ <rvv,ifd thus early to patronise this arduous un
iertaking. He afiures them and the ; übiie in
;enera|, that,no pains or expence shall be ipared in
he execution of the w >rk.
Terms *,f the V/ork :
I. II fiutt be publiiljed in 48 num
ers, each containing three flieets, or t..nty -lour
ages, of letter piefs, in quarto, printed with new
.y pes on fine paper.
11. Jn the course of the work will bs
-»t> ut*thirty large maps, of the fame fj.rt- as thole
.n the European editions, viz. most of them ihefit
maps on poll paper.
J& 3 Be fides the m*t>t ia the Britj/h Exit:c •/,
this icork 'will contain nine or ten American States
Maps.
JI I. The price of each number will be a suar
et dollar, to be paid on delivery.
No advance required.
IV. Sublcrib :s v .... dilapprove of the work,. ,
0 the- public:,tiun the ti>, .-fir.. - .mbrrs, •• J
be at liberty to return them, and fliall shave
heir rft ->ney re, aid.
V. Ihe fubfcriberc' names /liail be prefixed as
patrons of he undertaking.
•*"#* Subfcri|'tina« in Philadelphia by
ne intended pub.'.fiirr ; in tyew-Ynrk, bv mj the
>..ok fellers ; i„ NV«r.Haven, b M . Bttr :ia
Ha.ttord, by Mi. P-atten ; in li-Iton, bv Metf-
Tbomas and Anore.v», and by Mi. Weft; ir
Baltimp tt, by Mr. Rice ;in Richmond, I,y T-r.
I- Caiey ; in Chailel]by Mr, W. p. Young,
and by sundry other petfons throughout the Uai
ted3. ta:cs - I * f • ijiw.
I Have claims to about two hundred and
tircy thousand acres or LAND in the iiate of
Kentuckey, in dhTerent parts of that country, '
fomeot which 1 know to be equal to any all
?f which lam inclined to dispose of, either by
-nt re sale, or by admitting one, or two part ers,
to whom the agency on the whole will be com
nitted.
One fourth of the contrad> will be required ia
hand, either in eafh, merthandife, or such ass ts
as may be converted ;o a£iive use, the residue
;nay be apportioned in Convenient inilalments.
The purchasers i.» give fecuiity, on the land,
>r otherways,as suits them.
Knowing that there is a prejudice against, the
tirles of land in that fta"e } which i*»-more general
han jufl, i am willing to flipylate in.frh? con
tract, that a dilcount, or ihall be
made, where an) land may be loft, by realou of a
defective title.
Any- person inclining to such a purchase, is re
queued to write to me by pots,' in anfvver to
whom, more particular information wili be given.
// E NRT EAN KS*
Richmond March 20, 1793. 2a w tf„
N E IV BOOKS.
ROBERT CAMPBELL,
N<». 54, South Second Street,
Has received bv the Snip George Barclay
A large afart merit of BOOKS,
A nong which are,
Viner s Abridgment of Law and Equity, 12
vols.
N. B. Subscriptions are receive(? fo * the above
work at 4 Dollars per Volume, 4 Volumes w* /be
received every fix months till the work is row plead,
ivkvh iv Hl be in the course of t'ighteen months.
Croke's Reports, 4 voi^.
L >rd Ravmond's Reports, 3 vols,
Vaitel's Law of Nations
C >myn's 6 vols
Guthries Geography, a new. edition in 4 to.
wi h elegant coloured maps.
Boyer's French and Dictionary in 4 &
8 vo.
Hume's History of England, 8 vols—Same
bonk with Smollet's continuation, 13 vols, cle
gantlv gilt.
Mofheim's Ecclesiastical H;ftorv,6 vols.
Gibbon n s Roman History 12, v.ls. gilt or
plain
Neckeron Executive Power, 2 vols.
Hiftony of ancient Europe, 2 vols
Lavater of Phy fiognom v abridged
Large Family Bible wi h e'egant cuts.
GhemifVry, 3 vols
Milnro's do. 4 vols.
Undcryvc od on Children, 2 vols.
Clarkeon the diseases common in long voya
ges, 2 vols.
■ on Fevers,
Metherby's new Medical Dfillonarv.
Gardner on the Gout.
P tt's Chi:ur»ical Warks, 3 vols.
Nicholfon's Chemiitry.
Lee on Botany.
White on the diseases of Lying-in Women
See. &r.
R. C. V/;i! receiv." bv the arrival of the
fi;ii vellels from Dublin and G!a%^>w f a iarg ad
dition to his present evL"M'.ve n'.r.irtment of books
which will be copies of ail the new pub
15catiorhSof merit.
■April 13. 2aw. t:f.
PRINTED BY
CHI LD S and SWA IN E.
AT THEIR OFFipt No. 209, HTC^iTRJIST,
WEAR FIFTH-STREET,
'HIL4I)BLPHIA«