r.v P. FRF.NEAU: (at N0.' 2 0 9 , Market Street) PuUi/ktd Weekdays and Saturdays, [Fh*« kDo l lars per
Nomb. 82 of Vol- I!.] SATURDAY, August 10, 1703. [Total Numh. 186]
[/■//ertr.l by rej'ie/l-]
AN oration,
Deivcre;! o;l the i n-.irth of July, at Chef
tertowu (VU, viand) bv Citizen Ribert
Wright, pnbli ieil at the requell of the
Citizens who celebrated that Day.
Citizens, .
r-po a candid audience, want of time, to
■A redice to Ivltcin the prefeut obf."v lo
tions. will b ' a nihcient apology for a.l
their imperfections.
Citizens we have alTembled to celeJi ate
t'ie Jny, tin- aufpici >us duy to A nenca tli ■
tl iy vhiVli announced the 'ti ■■f Ma",
and eriaalidv-d the ,V, vertig'Hy <>f the Pen
pie the day which num ill luiieler the
a ulin.r lhackles of Brititii tyranny, and ce
lt vered us son po itical bondage, the
great day which pave birth to the empire
«•'C"lu.nbia. and gave her an exalted raiiK
am > lg tne nations ot the eaith.
We a e then n •turally led t« review tne
causes which induced it- to contemplate
with reverence the patriots who declaie,
it; to admire with fraternal attentionthe
he;oes, who fought, bled and died ro eltab
li ti it ; and w-th gratitude acknowledge
the nappv effects wuich have 14 -wed ho.r
this memorable event; ail event wilier
adorns the molt brilliant page ol hdtory.
written eve i w'lth the blood of our heroes
ail eve.it which altoniliied the d nnmij
world, and ettablilhed our national greav
jieC,; an event which is reco deil on iht
he >rt ol every American, with grati m.e,
for her heroes (lun, never, never to be
forgotten.
The revolutions of other emp res have
ge lerallv been the tlt-'ct ot reltlef, aiilbi
ti in.thirlt ofdonination.or Inft of power,
anil the simple change of on.- tyrant tor an
other.tlie Rig it iol .Vlan be.ug difregat ded.
and their governments re eiving little oi
no aUera'i'JO —ejovernnie -t-. toundcel it
the times of Egyptian darkness; in tin
times of fup-Tltiti in au.l p iellcratt, hi
the when kings were held to be oi
divine authority ; when every principle ol
goyernm nit led to the ellablithment of an
loelite dominion in the tyrant, not lii c
glory ; and the pi 111 v e obedience and .ion
reli'lance ol the people, not their hap
piness.
Happy, thr'.ce h 'pay Americans ? our
revolution was effeiicd at an enlightened
period of the world ; at a period when
tile Rignts of Ma i were perfectly un.l r
flood, and the tovereignty of the people
reco.rnifed Our revolution was fouiuiecl
on thepnreit principles of liberty and equa
lity ; it was no' a revolution oi t■ i ,nt ,
but a revn irion ot principles ; wh rebv
the fovereigntv of kings was overturned,
and the fovereijnty ot th people eft ib
1 iiheel on its rui i-. It •is not the product
of relllef ambition, tnirll of dominati
on, or lull of power, but oi necessity aid
genuinep atriotii'm, inculcated by Common
Sent'e, under the invincible r-iflue ice o
unerring Reason, that American Idol, a
gainlt whose empire all the tyrants or the
earth have confederated and war in vain,
at whose llirine Defnocs tremble.
Citizens, when, m the course ol hnmai
events, it becti nes ncceflarv tor one
pie to difl'olve the political bonds,
h ire connected them with another, and ti
ta.ee their Ita'.ion among the nations of the
earth, to which the law of nature, and ol
nature's God, equally entitles them ; a de
cent refpeil for the opinions of mankind,
requires, that they Ihonld declare the
causes which impel ihem to the reparation.
This truth is felf-evident, that all mei
are by nature eq lal, that they ire endowee
by their Creator, with certain imprescript
ible, and unalienable rights ; amongthefe
are life, liberty, and the pursuit of hap
piness ; that, to secure those rights, go
vernments are instituted among men, de
riving ail their power from the fovereigi
will of he people: that whenei er any lorn
of government becomes definitive o
thole ends, it is the undoubted right, i
is the indifpenf ible duty of the people ti
alter, or, to abolifli it, and to iuflitute :
new government, laying its foundation or
such principles, and organizing its powei
in such form, as (hall bed secure theii
fafety and happiness. Prudence dilates,
that revolutions Uiouid not be attempted
on light or rranfient cases, and the expe
rience of all ages proves, that mankind arc
more disposed to bear, while evils are fut
ferable, than to rij.ht themselves by abo
lilhing forms to which tlieyhave long been
accuftomt d
But when a long train ot abuses and
tifurpationsj pursuing, inan iably the- f.iue
object. evince a deliberate design to e lab
iiili abfofiite defpotifin. it U ngV, it
.stheii duty to throw otfTuch domination.
Mid co provide new guards lor their fu
ture fafety. , rir
Citizens, such was the p t.ent ln..er
anc«? of these colonies ; filch was the ne
cessity which conltrained them to abolifli
their former governments. Ihe hiltor)
of the present king; of Great Britain is a
uiftory of repeated injuries and ufurpa
tions< all having in ilirecl: object, theeltab
lifhmcnt of absolute tyranny over these
■states. To pr ve this let fact be substi
tuted to the candid world.
He refu fed his alient to laws, the Itioft
wholesome and necefiary, for the public
good.—He diff'ivedreprtfentative houses.
repeatedly, lor oppoling, with manly firm
ness, his invaflons of the rights o) the peo
pie—He obitructed the adminiltration ot
ja'tice, by refuting irs 'llTeiit to laws, foi
eltabli hing judiciary powers.
He among us landing armies in
time of peace, and p« uedeo them, by
mock trial, from pimiflmient for minder:
committed on the peaceableinhab tants o
these* itaies —He irapof d taxes on us with
out our cot Ccn;, a d claimed th right u
m -ke laws to bind us, in all cafe 9 w Int; -
ver, without our being reprefentcd —H-
abdicated the government here b> cleti
ring »»s . >ut of his protection. a id waging
war against us—tie plundered our sea .
ravaged oflr coast** bur.it our tow ns, am;
murdered our ptople —He hired foreign
mercenaries to complete the works of
'eath, desolation a »d tyranny, already l>e-
with circumftani c sot cruelty and
perfidy, fc;ircely paralleled in the nnit
b trb.u ous ages, and difgracelul to the
heads of a civilized nation.
H. enticed our people to take Op arm"
ap.ainti their native country, and b .fely to
murder their brethren ; whereby ad tiiof
who escaped the fevord and gibbet, like
f > ma«y Arnolds, live the monuments ot
their own disgrace.
He compelled our fellow citizens taken
captives on the feus, to iir.brue the«
hands in the blood of -.their countrymen.
excited infurrettions among us, and
allured the Indian savages, wnoieknowl
rule of warfare is the indiscriminate de
(fruition of all ages, sexes and conditions,
to deltrov our aged and venerable p<ireiirs,
our tender wivej, and innocent childre 1.
In every ftaj,e ot t ir fe oppreilions we
pet tioned ' r redress in the molt humble
terms, and our repeated petitions were
pnfwered only by repeated i ifults
Nor were we wanting in an attention tc
our Britiih b.etliren; we warned them
from time to time, of the attempts made
by their Legiflattire to extend unwarrant
iDie juriidiction over us : we reminded
hem of our emi. ration fn'.ni their country;
%ve appealed to their native juflice am!
magnanimity, and we conjured them bj
lie ties of our common kindred, to ilil
avow such usurpations ; they too were
;e if to the voice of juitice and confangtii
|ity-
I'hefe were the caiifes that impelled out
Delegates in Congress aflembJed, to de
clare, in she name, and by the authority,
>f the good people of these Itatcs, "* That
' these United Colonies are, and of right
4 ought to be, free and independent Itates,
* that they \\ ere absolved from all alle
* giance to the Britiih crown, and th t
ls all political connexion between them
•* and the state of Great-Britain is, and
' ought to be, totally diflolved, and that
4 as free arid independent states, they
• 4 have full power to levy war, conclude
14 peace, contract alliances, and do all
fc4 other ads and things, which independ
-14 ent Itates, may of right do.'* And for
the support of the fame declaration, rely
ing on the protection of Divine Provi
dence,they mutually pledged to each other
heir lives, their fortunes, and their sa
cred honors.
Citizens, this was the ast that broke the
chains of Britiih tyranny, and delivered
us from worse than Egyptian bondage.
This was the a£t that declared the Rights
of Man and eltabldbed tbe sovereignty ol
the people ; and this is the auspicious day
011 which it was done! a day which
ought lor ever to be held sacred by Colum
bia !
Citizens, this declaration of independ
ence was an a£t of reason, of reflection,
and lung deliberation, but, like a-t elcdrii
(hock, with heavenly fire, llruck all A
mer.ca at once, the civil, the military,
and all ranks of citizens, like one n an
co-operated in supporting it, conceiving
Tfcey had pledged ihciv iheu' foi tuuedi
andtfeir facrrd honors to defend it, a
(übftantially hy their reprefentaf.ves ii
Conrfl", as if they had done it individu
ally bv theinfelves. Nor was the wifdon
and pcuetr tion of Congress more cemfpi
cnoUb in . ny avt of their tit liberations thai
in the ap; o ncinesit of our Commander in
vihief. who fuems lo have been felefted iiy
Heaven.as tlie Saviour of his counti y;um!ei
whoso happy uifjiiies we are not only ii:
poffelHun ol the independent empire ot the
tinetkcountry upon tne g obe ; a country
-vhoi'c forefts are crow net! with timber fni ■
iciei.t to supply all the navies of the world:
i country w nose foils, in an improved Hate
if cultivation, would fumilli bread enotigl
;o feed half the old world; a country
liofe waters abound with si h enough t>
uppt ' all the markets o Furope ; a conn
ay si led " ith minerals of the nioft Valuab.e
I i ility.t'iifficiei.t for all the tlfeful purpose:
if fife—but also in pofleflion ol the be lt or
,anifed form of gover nient—a government
i w rich the e: ergy of a monarchy, witl ■
>ut e pomp of kings, the wifdoni of ai
n'llll.ci acy, without the baneful poison oil
itibiity. a d :he v rtue of a democi ,;cy a e
nod i.ap, ily united ; a government found
d oil tne pin eft pri icipies of Liberty ant
r" ,|uality, Ifecuring eVe y mail in the (hade
it hisowa Kig free, and in the fruits o
11s Own Vi e ; a p,overnmeiit which carrit
II it a civn remedy tor all its def^ifi.
t ail W ashiNGl on !•* may thy
ibun s be Clowned with fuccef ; lo;:j.
11 lyil th'iu live the favorite of thy conn
■ y ; may thy great n me be eterniUd b>
.ne honelt historian, when the monument
:o be e. feted to thy memory fha'.l be de
Iroyed by the hanei of time.
li.!. 1 Warren, Montgomery, and Mer
T, Ve ily, Bracco, and Walters,, Ander
•i.i, Pol ■ lisi. and Wilmot, Dt Kalb, Cjold
nd Thorn,t
Haii all ye holts of f'eparted Heroes 1 ;
:t *•:. the treal's) e y.isi lf.vilhed .in you.
onntry's cause, .nd prevalent the priet
/oil paid for her liberty, and nothing bu
i ivenimeiit liice this, in such a country
have ever fljnchee! the bieedin.
,i. uiu!s of tne tender unc, ".he a:~tciionat.
lollie r. daughter, fitter, tor ijufoanils
;hi,father , brothers 11 in, whoft
iie'iHOiiable a.lines, ever clear to Anieric i
nay tlie Inlloi .c page hand down tei la'e l
with in mortal honour. O! n ;
iley si urifli in eternal day.
\ e more fortumie -son- of America,win
"urVived our contelf for Liberty, and w i
petl'ne. long may you live the gfcardbii'
f our lihei ties, the ornaments ol l'ocie ty
may your Country n»ver forge: your u.ire
mil crated ferviees, but gratefully rewai.
ii t in . ami may your viituou* labours bt
.rownetJ with pre.fperity
Citizens, in contemplating the otithor
if our Independ.nce, let Americans nevei
iorj,et, that it was not all the work of then
town hands, and that it could ot l ave beei
i'o loon eltabliUied by all their biootl anc
treasure ; but let thein remember,-and le
them teach it to their children, that mi cl
of the merit is due to France | and, thai
dui warmed acknowledgments ought toi
ever to flow lo that generous nation, win
rarly taiuht in not to defjiair, a d lornui
an alliance with us on terms of the mod
«?rfc£l reciprocity, gave us renk alrmni
:he nations of the earth, ftirnilhed lis w itl
leets and armies, money & military (tores,
ivhofe gal,ant ions braved the peril' of the
eas) erofled the Atlantic ocean, fought,
lied and died for our country, and enablec
America to | ut a speedy and a splendid pe
riod in the glorious revolution.
Cit zens, this the voice ot jtif>ice bid;
lie lo confefs. t is gratitude commands ine
ai declare, anel tliis the feeling,, of my our
le art impels me to inculcate on every A
m eric an i
How explicitly then ought we to confe-P
aur obligations to France ; how cheertuliv
leclare our gratitude for fueh unboilrider
jenerofity» such unparalleled magnanimity,
i he present i evolution of France, as yet.
hath fufnifhed Hs with an opportunity, onlyi
:>t wifhingfuccefs to their Arms, confufioi
to the Council of their Enemies, and tii a;
they may ettablith their government, found
ed on the Sovereignty ot the I'enp.e.
Our moll grateful acknowledgments are
i hie to De Grass, aid all the Heioes of the
French Army and Navy, who fought, biei
and coneiueTcci with us.
Revere nie to the iliuftri iis Wafliingtoi
and onr virtuous : riuy, who. with mine
(ban Roman valour, defended cur country
ind rllahlilhed i lir national military cha
* t J Atth-Je vr.tci a panje axd r?L
on the (Wan:-
rifter : who taught Britons tiiat th s oil
was adapted to the growth ot man, & t, at
Americans had not degenerated but rege
| nerated by their emigration ; & convinced
[ the world, that mercenary hirf lings, and
| tools to tyrants, are not equal to men fight
ing for their liberties; that the fp rk 11 li
berty n.ore firmly braced the human ai m
than a.l the gold of Britain.
Profound refpeet to those venerable pa
riots, who. in Corgref, declared Ame
rica independent, who tilled our ( onm iii.
ai d conducted our affairs ihnwigh th-fc
tempelluous times, which try mens fouls,
and who with the wildow of a Lycurgiis,
the vigilance of a Hauiden. and thi ii. m
ef» of a Sidney, planned and vat.hed our
ffairt ot llate ; and ultimately fecund us
11 advantageous, juff, and hunoui .lile
peace.
A tender refpfif i due to the fair tl; ugh
.ers of America uh fj u-lied the gilded
>:iit, the poifo::ous Te i, intended 10 be
guile thcni, a d preferred the Liberty of
■ lieir country to an tlu luxurit s of tin ope,
~d no.ilj bine the loss of hnfbandu, fotn,
id brothers D.iin, aril with Amazoniai»
valour ioug t tilemfelves,* to revenge tile?
iiifuit on tneir sex.
A decent ret| ett is due to ail orders of
ilizens, who firmly aided in their rcip.c
----r \e Itations in the completion of ihis great
a 01 k
And; above all. a religious gratitude t«
>ur Heavenly Be ntfacfor, who, fining on
our righteous cause, protected us with his
utftretched arm, and crowned im virtu
ms labours with fuecefs.
* At the White plains a'ld Monmouth-
From the New York Journal.
r HAVE for fume time part observed, in
tue pt.blic pr ills, a fanes of logics 1 <e-
am puces, or number:-, nailer the
ugi.aiure ot L'acifictts. Tilis \\liter ap
p -its so intent «n »< lei g out a neiarii>u«
purpose, iliat I cannot compare him to any
;liing better than a woif iu fiicep's cloa
thii'i;. Tl e I'atrial, (a book w i itten by
tJocior Johnfoii after He had defcaiec! the*
-alife ot lib, ry, and efpoufeci that oi the
iinnii.ry) tra so rds Pucificut. lince the
in: -i> uto Co iy to d- pi els the patr ot
fmof th people, not to involve the nation
ii a war a itu it> ou i, 'il.ti j and Uie vo
li,imuetf> jiol.u.a: a.g< bru of f.dmund
riuike is more ex i l bit. as he con;r otic
:.pe"iily and tells the N-l.on.ii Conventioit
win: He really ji earn. ; but the pi'ol'X
t acificuS tlii'.es to hide bis great 01-jeft
unoe. a loi g tra,n ot far fetched f.-ph'fti.
ial reafoni/.g, ip'tlyd figneii to persuade
Us to be political rafcuis ar.d republican
blockhead* It no; my intention t'>
t: ace hi in through ail h s .erpentine m< ;>u
deiings, (ijce, while his enigmatical fo
(hifins are exploded, his inipilh i■ • ii>.ti
i mis would derive fume confequenct si am
then" being noticed ; but to unfkteen his
cloven foot affords me a high degree of
I'.ti laffion. In the fecund number ot'jhis
redoubtable luminous writer, he urges,
v, ith gi eat energy, that the French nation,
by acting offenlively, have fofeited evtry
claim Of succour whick. by the treaty,
they are entitled to. This is a falfe affec
tion and a base anticipation. 111 the fit ffc
place, the king, in conjun&jon with the
t migrant princes, infligated ih« courts of
Anuria and Pi tiflia to acl lioftilcjy against
tile people of France ; and the Duke of
Brunfuick was the fiilf invader. ]n re
gard to the oilier powers, their co dust
compelled the French to take a decided
p..rt : Afl: common sense, whether a peo
-1 le, whole internal, political trai quiiity
was noi ye reflored, would wish to in
vite the forces of all the fui rounding na
tions to at! agninrt them? In ilie feconitl
place, the anticipation is as villainous as it
is unfounded : Vv h„t cause have oui brave
friends, and allies, g \en lis to lo 111 a
conjeSure, that they intend to den aii4
succour fruiii . mtrica? Has not cii:zen
(ienet eXpielsly declared, that Fr: ace is
lenliblje Ihe can receive no reJ affiilaiice
lrum u», lince the theatre of the war is nit
the other continent, and therefore does
not aik it; and that Ihe does Tiut wjlll to
involve us in t!:e druggie—V. hat can be
more friendly. i> ore noble ! Alter erect
ing this head, or ground of argument, anil
fuppoiing it in.pieg able, Pacificus fays,
■■ 'i here may be cnules which will juflify
an offenfive war ; such rs the ill-treaimenc
if the aitiballitdors ot a prifce— pluuderiiic
nfhis fi.bjecis, &e.'' To refeni this greac
inl'u't, ai>U repair svil, Ui9H«sands mil ft bo led to f.nnglitcr—whole
countries devaluated, and nations fettered
with the chains of unconditional bondage :
But a people, a free republic, 11111 ft not
claim a right to lift up an offenlive arm
against the sacred majesty of a debauched
treacherous prince—A prince ! how it
founds! what a charm does it convey !
This specimen of the works of Pacificus i:
ftifficient to convince us, that he toufiders
the nation of France .as a herd of wild
beasts, against whom every prince and
every mail may.lift his arm with impunity ;
and that were we to entertain a friendly
f.'ii'iment refpccting them, we would be
.■s bad as they are. He alio fays, that
" becanfe their form of government has
undergone a change, the treaty has receiv
ed another complexion."—What a bale,
pitiful fubt-rfiige; the amount of it is, that
because the people of France have de
stroyed the balfile and tyranny, and fired
vith our example, have ertabltlhed liberty
on their ruin-, we have nothing to do with
them : But I would atk the courtly Paci
fictn, whether the pecuniary obligation;
that we are under to France, have un
dergone a change ? and whether, whet
the people of America adopted the iip«
conltituticui, they were abfoived from the
engagements of the confederation ? In;
word, I would all. Pacificus, whether he
can be the p.iralite of a venal court, and ;
genuine republican at the fame time A:
lie has always been fond of making quota
tions from the works of great men, in or
der to induce the world to suppose thai
he is also an inherent great man, I dial
offer him one from an author of the highell
repute, namely, Montelquieu ; this greut
politician in his Spirit of Laws, vol. i page
34, has given us a frightful picture of the
court s of princes, fufficient to make then:
od'ous to every ilit n who has a regard to
the principles of honor and virtue. "Aei
b tion. he fays, mixed with idleness ;
me .nuefs w-ith pride; a delire of liche:
without indultry ; averlion to truth ; fht
tery ; perfidy ; violation of engagements;
contempt of civil dutiesfear of tne prir.ee
virciir ; hope from his weakness ; but a
bove all, a perpettui ridicule call upon vir
tue, are the characterises, by which moll
courti *rs, in all ages and countries, have
been conltantly diitinguilhed." How juflly
this representation may be applied to Pa
cificus, I will leave him to judge. In re
fpeet to the proclamation »i the President.
and all the little etceteras appertaining to
it; the good sense of the Americans will
direct them to fee I and judge for them
ielves. it is my wifli to lliade every anti
republican trait in the character of the
man who was firm to his country during a
perilous war : With such councilors,a:
Pacificus near his person, it is not furpr;-
ftng, that he lliould sometimes ait contrary
to the fentiinents of the people. The
lplendor of departments and the pompou?
ylare of specious Reports, will fometimc:
ihield the true character of a man fren
the public view, and prevent that in»efti
gation which his perfidy calls for; bill
which his silvered eloquence evades.
SECRETARIUS.
For the National Gazette.
Mr. Freneau,
■J HAVE heard nothing mere regretted bj
-*• the best friends of our country, than the
manner adopted in publilhing the opinion
of the judges «l" the supreme court of the
United States, on the molt important quel
tion which ever did. or ever will, conn
before that judicature, viz. Thefuabilitj
of a state, in that court, by a citizen of an
other (fate. Sojnft, so wife, so importao
a decision, could not have been inarle tor
pub.ic : The refpeftive opinions of the
judges, ought to have been inserted a
large, in all the news-papers throughou
the continent; and this would undoubtedly
have been the cafe, had not a copy-righi
been made of them. Good policy woult
have induced an unlimited publication
hut a more effectual mode could not hav<
been adopted, than the one chosen, to pre
vent these important opinions from beint
read by the great body of the people : A
large pamphlet, price 50 cents, was made
® them, and claimed as a copy-right, ii
order to prevent their being republiihed ii
■the gazettes : Whereas tney ought to have
been public property, that they might be
JMiblilhed in a fix-penny pamphlet, and ii
all the news-papers, in order that the great
body of citizens might be informed of the
great principles of this important decision.
As an individual citizen, I hope it is not
_yet too late ; and that the judges, at tlieit
ensuing session, will direct their opinions,
at large, to be published in the news-paper:
of your city, that the claim of a copy
right therein may be withdrawn, and that
public notice thereof may be given, to the
end that the Peopie may have the neceffarj
information, whereby to judge of the me
*iitated alteration in the conllitution of the
"United Statei, by the enemies of Equality :
Por my own part, I have never yet heard
a good reason afligned, why a fraudulent
state lhould not be amenable to juitice, as
well as a fraudulent individual ! for such
we know there are.
Be pleased to give these observations a
place in vour next gazette, and oblige
A Citizen of the United States.
Anguft 3d, 1793.
PHILADELPHIA.
Saturday, Angufl 10.
\\ e hear from South-Carolina, thai
liere are now 700 labourers to 1 tit an 11 \
employed at the Santee canal. From tin
well directed exertions of so great a force
and the judicious regulation* which haw
been adopted, there is <rood reil'on to h'>p<
(lays a Carolina paper) that the canal \v 1:
be completed in the year 1795.
Captain Watson, of the si hooner Do!
pliin, arrived lKre on Tuelday, with tr
pali'enjjers from Cape Francois. On tin
pafiage Hie was boarded by a Bermuda
privateer, commanded by one M'Dougal
who plundered the paflengers of ter
thoufUnd dollars property, in plate auc
money. .
7 he fioop Belle. Tro*t, from Jamaica.
IS taken by a French privateer nnd fern
into Charielton ; also a brig froru Ham
burg, prize to the Sanfpareil.
We havebeen favoured with thefo.'lov
ing lift ot Americans veilels, captured I.)
the Bntiih privateers, and sent to King
don, Jamaica, where they were 011 the
ill of July :
Brig Defiance, Portfinouth, Virjr'nia,
Jaiaes Newell; (hip Friendlhip. Phila
delphia, Samuel Hubbel ; brig Harriot.,
Charleston (S.C.)G. Calder ; brig So
phia. Philadelphia. O eorge Price; brig
I'.Hgle, Walliington (N. C.) W. Parmalee;
llhooner Jane, Portfmotith (N. H.) Rich
ard York; brig Milley Huntref ■. Wash
ington (N. C.) Matthew Eltwood i briz
Federalist, Charleston fS. C.) Aug. Gav
nnne; snow Silky, Philadelphia. Audi!;
chooner Peggy, CharlMton (S. C.) Tho
mas forrefter; brig Thomas, Portfmmitli
,'N. H.) John Salter ; brig
Sew-\ ork, Nathaniel Smith ; brig Lyon,
Portland, (Cafco Bay) E, Deafing, now in
I ort Anthony ; fchoorer John, Philadel
phia, J. Dorande ; Schooner .Norfolk
; V.) R. Caulfield ; schooner Flora, Phi
ladelphia, T. Arnold, and three brigs more
were brought into Port Royal 011 the 30th
of June, whose names are unknown.
It is said from the time the Boston fri
rate appeared off Sandy Hook She con
tantly wore the French national colours,
ind made use of every (pecies ol deception
;o be thought a veflel of the* republic. The
-I'ew had no idea that the Ambuscade
would fight them, in the manner (he did,
Gapt. Courtnay having been informed that
ill citizen Kompard's officers were infirm
ild men. without spirit er abilities to com
nand a vigorous attack. After engaging
ivithin about a cable's length far near an
lour, Capt. Courtnay, who was the life
ind foul of the action fell, the whole bac><
'art ol his head being carried away, sup
posed by a 12 pound ball, which also killed
:he lieutenant of marines. Both were
inftatitlv thrown overboard, as were all the
athers that were killed, without the ce
remony of sinkers. A prisoner, lieutenant
Whitney, who was 011 board the Boston
during the engagement.has given it a hi?
opinion that, from the determined conduct
of Courtnay, had he survived, he would
hare funk with his frigate rather than have
Surrendered, or fled from tlie Ambuscade.
He /lad no sooner fallen than the firft lieu
tenant took the command, altho' previ
oufly wounded, with a long splinter which
beinp driven in a horizontal direction thro'
tne (lefliy part of his nose, th»re lodged,
remaining fixed femething in the manner
of a (hip's fpritfail yard. From this time
it is said the action visibly declined, & the
crew soon ifter demanded either a retrea
or furrendenthe former was preferred,tht
Bolton carrying ail the fail file could make
which was little more than that on hei
foremafts. The masts of the Ambuscade
were so much wounded (as mentioned ii
our last) that she eould not carry fail fuf
ticient to overtake the Bolton, without a
certaintly of carrying them overboard;
upon which (he tacked, took a Portuguese
arig that was in fight, and returned to
N'ew-York. The number of killed on
joaicl the Boston are not yet certainly
cnown : the conje£tures are, from 22 to
54. The peopte on board the Ambuscade
.ounted 2 1 dead bodies floating in the Bof
:on'swake. A crow-bar was found (tick
ing in the Bolton's fide, fram the Ambus
:. de: On board the latter,old cale knives,
forks, nails, &c. supposed to have been
irevioufly fired from the Boston. This
last named (hip has ports for 40 guns, but
only mounts 32, those on the main deck,
English twelve#. One of them was dif
mounted and rendered useless during the
engagement, by a ball from the French
man.
'It has been said, that the last arrivals
from France make no mention of a decree
of the National Convention relative ic
goods belonging to their enemies, found on
board neutral veifels. From the C/ivo
nique de Paris, however, a very refpefta
ble paper, edited by two members of the
conveirtion, we translate the following
article.
" The English government, appear de
(irous of treating republicans as wild beasts,
v ho are to be brought to submit thro' hun
ger enly, for they have ordered neutral
vefleK loaded with prov'fior: for c-.-r
P orCs , to be ftopt: If ever reprifalt are
warranted it is when the nectaries pi
lite are to be provided. ihe convention
has decreed tl:is day. TJiurfday, Ma* qth,
upon the report of their committee of Mu
rine, that the trench (hips of war and pri
vateers may flop and fend into the porn
ot the republic all vessels belonging tc
neutral powers, laden in the whole or ii
pal t with provilions for our enemies.''
Capt. Swart, arrived on Wednefdai
froin Sr. Thomas'*, informs, that the arme<
wH'el that inlulted the Danifn Hag hat
it-en condemned, and the captain feiiten
red to he hanged, as he could shew nc
:ommiflion. he, however, had the for
tune to escape.
The Petit Democrat", after waiting cf
->nr Capes i j days for the Uritifli ihip Jane
learing that file was likely to be detainee
l ome time in Philadelphia,' steered for tin
f .heiapeak, where drfturbances among hei
crew, have thinned it.
The Andromeda Britifn frigate of
and tliß Jphigenia of 32 guns have faiiec
rroin the Weit-Indies fur the eoalt of tilt
United States.
£xtr.iv°" of a 'etter from 0 gentleman m
Detroit, to his friend in Pittfburg, dat
ed. July 8, 193-
" Accounts are received here, that the
nc.ians to the number of 2000, are aifem
ile at the Miami in council; that they arc
're:irly alarmed, having heard r!iat.Gene
*al Wayne is marching into their countrj
>'. :tl] ail army of 8000 men—to afcert.ni:
his, & know upon vviinr. terms the com
i-;(!ioners are authorised to treat, they
l ive feilt .30 chiefs from different tribes
o them, a~d if the commissioners are nor
nftrnfttd to give up all the country on
.'he weft (ide ot the Ohio and Alleghany
ivers, they may return home from where
hey now are—the Indians being deter
nined to treat on no other terms than a
'elintjuifhment on our part of that terri
:ory. It is generally supposed, if the trea
y floes >101 take place, that the Indians
vill immediately commit depredations,
'.:;J it is more than like ly some part of our
lriny may be the object «f those nowaf
embled. Colonel Brant and Simou Girtv
«re among those feiit to thecoinmiffiouers.'
Extract of a letter from tfcw-York, da
ted A. 'gutl 7.
" The minister of J - ance, citizen Cener,
s looked for here early tins day. Not
ivithftanding the endeavours ot an inve
terate, mortified set, he will receive from
vi enlightened people those honours lie
o jnOly merits, and the heartfelt congra
tulations of many tbotlfands of konelt
Americans. The ringing of all the church
>ells in the city is to be the signal of hi*.
ipproach, and he will b' :not at the North
iver by a committee of 40 citizens, ap
pointed for the pu'pofe of welcoming him
to our shores. Tlie tools of an ariftocra
:ic junto will no doubt hide their diminifh
-'d heads, and the old plundering ami
nurdering tories among 11s shrink into in
ignificance at the approach of the virtuon.
■eprefentative of a great and gallant na
tion, contending far the rights of human
lature 1"
The following toast among other?, was
; : ven yesterday at a private entertainment:
" May every Captain BotnbaJ} never be at
1 loss for a citizen fiompnrd.''
At half part 12, at noon, on Wednesday
•'af>, the approach of citizen Genet, mi
lliliter from the republic of France to the
United States, was announced in New-
York by the ringing of all the bells in the
city. On his landing at the battery thir
teen guns were fired, alter which main
thousands of citizens formed a proceflioii
from thence, and conduced :,iin to the
Tontine Coffee House, where an addref
was prcfeiited to him by the committee
appointed by the citizens of New- Vorl.
for that purpose.
London papers mem'on the fcarcitv
?rain in various parts of Spain, to the t x
treme. The people have been reduced to
the nereffity of grinding up tiie molt un
ivholefome fubfltitutes for bread, to mix
up with the little Hour they can procure.
By the tenor of various French papers,
it appears that the plots in Paris aga.nll the
Convention, are conhdertd there as mat
ters of little moment, and by no means
tormidable in any inftar.ee. The infnr
gerts w ere nearly routed, and their nt
moft efforts reckoned contemptible by the
friends of liberty.
"An adjutant general from the army of
the north, with a pair of colours in his
hand, taken from the enemy, announced
in the National Convention of May 25,
that on the 24th in the morning, thedivi
fion under the command of General La
morliere had attacked the Dutch army
near Menin. in three points. The enemy
loft all their polls, 3 pieces of cannon, 7
\vaggolls of ammunition &t provifion,scc
men killed, 300 taken prisoners, among
whom are 28 officers, aim one of superior
rank. The military theft was taken, as
well as much property ; and Inch was the
rapidity of the flight, the French were o
bhged to carry into Lisle 22 waggon load?
of wounded left by the enemy on the lie lel
ot'battle. A grenadier, named Grcflum
bert, took the colours."
\ efierday srrived Jere t?ie fchomer
;r ria, Capt. Peoples, from St. Marc, Ia ft
torn New Providence. The following
aic the particulars of the treatment he
experienced from several English priva
teers on his pafTage.
On the j2th of July was boarded by the
boat of tile brig Mary, Capt. M'lver; ev
ery part of the vefiel searched, and then
told that die mult iie to until the brig came*
up. On the 13th f.iw the Mary, made fail
tor her, and were obliged to run 12 leagues
out of our coiirle : were overhauled by
another officer from the Mary, and order
ed to lie to until her contort Ihould come
up—the Khootier Curler, o' Kingiton.—
i ell in with her the fame day, was search
ed again, and then permitted to fail. O.i
the 14th J*eil in witu the schooner Char
lotte, M Aipiu, of Providence, \*lio know
ing the Maria, made buta flight learch.
On the ijth fell in with the Betsey,
Lane, of Providence, who ftriftly searched
the vefiel, after ordering her to come to
anchor oft Ineagua. Pafl'engers cheits
ivere overhauled, private papers read, and
lie veflel's bulk broken. The officers
:00k the fchooner'* sea letter, &c*f.
sod detained them three hours. The crowc
if the May-flower, Cruper and Betsey,
ame on board and again overhauled the"
.effel, without the least attention to our
enionll ranee, but we had fuffererf the
ame treatment several times. O'l the
i 6th the people from the different vefiels.
anieon board, opened the hatches, llar
ed tile indigo, colfeand btiiicuit on deck,
md searched every part of the vefl'el.—
Though nothing turned up that could ren
ler the vefl-rl fufpe&ed, jet one of the cap
ains determined to fend her to Prov:-
lence. This treatment "as attended
>vuh the mod insulting la .ye flora the
fftcers and f.iilors, and every other aggra
ation that could render it infupportabl*.
[11 the evening of the fame day the mate
tnd four Tailors were taken onboard, and
>eop!e put on board the schooner to navi
gate her to New-Providence.
No plea could be found for detaining
he vefl'el there, civiiities were received by
:lie pafl'engers, from the attorney general ;
nrpr.fe was exprelied at the fihooner's
)eing sent in, but before Ihe could fail her
rew was taken from on board, and per
uidion obtained to take two Frenchmen
rom the prifun fliip to navigate her, which
.vas granted 011 condition that Capt. Peo
ples mould give a pafTage to five French
jeople of colour.
T he New-Providence privnteers have
irders to bring into port all American vef
els, there robe f a.chtd and examined at
ifnre. Fears are entertained in that
Hand of the French riling, they are there
ore ihipped off whenever opportunity
offers.
Capt. Peoples had not a dollars worth
">f French property oa board, and his pa
pers in the greatest order. We under
hand that he means toftate his cafe to our
government."
Capt. Bompard has prefentcd to the N T .
S ork Tammaney Society tjie colours which
lis frigate wore during the engagement
between the Ambuscade and Boston.
The collection in this city for the relief
">f the unfortunate St. Domingo fufferers,
independent of the Theatre, and Circus
benefits, and of the collection made by the
French patriotic society already exceed*
10,000 dolls. Thefiibfcription is not veC
-o'npieted, and will probably produce
;,000 more.
Condorcer, Sieve?, and Dtihamel, three
liftinguilhed members of the French Nati
onal Convention have undertaken a peri
odical work, entitled Journal d'ln
-1 i ruction So ci AL e. The title gives an
idea ot its nature, and the names of the
editors are security fuiScient for the merit
of the performance.
It is a surprize with many, that some of
the French tleet now among are not dif
patchedfor the proteifion ol the American
:I ;ig in the Weft Indies by clearing those
leas of privateers. It certainly would bo
advantageous t» the French islands, as well
is. to our merchants, that their trade ir»
•American bottoms should not oe interrup
! ;l by the providence men; but the-
French look forward 110 doubt to what
next Fall may produce, especially since the
National Convention have decreed, trea
ties notwitiiftandirg, that the American.
flag shall not cover enemies' property."
\_Geu. Adv. 2
From a Correjpondtnt.
" A Querist, in the General Advertiser
r >naH '1 hurl'day, rep ob lies the advertise
ment of the French Confnl, for inviting the
" Friends of L berty and F. quality" to enter
on board the French Frigates in this river.
The next day another paragraph appeared
111 the fame paper ; wherein the writer en
quires, with a degree of admiration, why
the French do not proteel the American
flag in the Weft-Indies, and cruise againit
the French privateers i" "If the Exe
cutive of France had ordered prosecutions
against the Marquis de In Fayette, and the
other French officers, who espoused the
American cause during the lull war, (as the
Executive of the Union line against HEN
iIELI> ami SINCLE FERRY) Amerita.trould not Ttivc had the !nten?ft of that pa
triot, to intercede t>r he • at the court o
Frinoe, or to rifle fro n Rhode-lOand to
Bolt© 1 in a Ihorterfpace of time than wa
ever known to be travelled over be .'ore, to
influence the French admiral to fiiccuti
mud co-operate with the American forces.' 1
Of the SANS CULOTTES, nr French
man without Breeches.
OF the Sans Culottes, we frequently
hear in the accounts with France It i
a name given to certain inhabitant's of thai
country a"d foidiers in the army, proba
bly, at firO, by way of deri'lion. It is na
tural to inquire, what is the reafoir mti
w ear 10 breeches ! is >ta matter of choice,
or of necefiitv ? That it is a matter oi
c mice, is nwt to be supposed, France is ai
old civilized country. It« court re
mar .« able tor all th? convenrencies, eie
fancies and luxnri sos life The poorei
fort. and r ofein the molt diftaut parts <»j
the tCiUiid'MT. would :iave followed the
1 lfhion of ihe richer, and those around tht
vourt, had they been able. Whence, thee
time the neceifity o' omitting this part ol
covering ? Certainly from their poverty ;
iind thiv again from the oppreHloiis unciei
Which they have long laboured.
The greater p irt or what tiiev conic
ra;fe from tber industry was extorted
from th - n to c.. rv on ambitious w <irs, tc
furni'li lumptnous tables and coOly appa
rel for the king and Ins family, the fiobtii
ty and clergy. Wiien this expensive «. uab
idluneiit i lopped off, aid equal liberty
extended to 11, they will ali wear bree
ches.
This fma'l must give u
some uiea of the wretched ef which (lave
r.y bri ct> upon men. In me fijieit foi
a id tbe most salutary climate, the bulk o
the people are starved 1:< order that a lev
may gratifv t' eir pride .and roll in ever'
luxury. VV th v. ;t cruel insults, too, art
they repaid? Their rulers si. ft cLpr'm
litem of ihe means, and then ridicule then
like Pharoah's taikm tilers who relufed th<
ifi aelites straw, and Itili required the ufu
ai tale of bricks.
Tlie want of breeches, however, is im
material as to the success of the revolution.
Tne Americ ns wanted (what is worst
llioes a.id stockings. They wore then:
out marching after their enemy, as the
French, lalt campaign, tore what few
breeches theyh d inpurfuing the Auftriai
<a id 1 ru liaiio. The S.i is Culottes may not
appear lo well upon a parade day, but t'-ey
arc torinidab»e in the field. 1 heir buii
nefs is not (how, but reality. The bree
ches of the»r enemy do not serve to It-p
the point of a bayonet, and the French fel
dom iuru then* oacks, exccpt by mte.Ui
ona.ly lhowing t eir posterior to provoke
lom&iou the heavy Grerma • . I. s a com
in 11 laying with the Lug in, and i*. tin
d iys ot ignorance, believed in this country,
that one Kngdlhiiian is a match for thie«
F renchuieilyl b t experience will eve<
prove it lalfe. she faying in\e* ted.
and is found ngcellary to be <n« ulc ted, i'
order to inspire cowards with confidence.
I venture it here o.ny ai a co je ture,
that Edmund Burkk, when he la a jr
France the * deligniful vili m, of Antoi
nette, might h »vc seen o « ni tour, the vi
sion of a Sans Culotte ; and fuppoli: g it tc
be meant by way of infu.c to an Eaglifh
man, a., to (ay. come and , he
has been raving erer lime.
So nit particular advantages of the want
of breeches might be m-iuioned, and it
might he mown, from tne examples ot the
ancient Romans, tne FI ghlaaoei , and th. j
Savages, that they are by no >..e n- a ne
celfary apparai us lor war ; but the reader
will not judge the lubjecc important
enough to be purfi.ed lu.ttier. May all
the French have jreeches 10 put on ; or,
in other words, ny they speedily accom
pli 111 thedellruction of tyranny.
( S. Car. Paper."]
[From the Nei, - i>/A ji>nri.ai 'f *<Z- 7•
Tra.Jlate.i~M !hi NTIC PARTICU
L4-R> "f the b ATI le between the AM
BUSCADIi and BO > 1 OiS Frigates.
THK challenge given by capt. Courtnajl
to c pi Bon ard. on tiie li t. has be
coin«. top o conim n conversation. The
morning f ne day when the challenge
was received. »h crew of the Ambuscade
had bee 1 permitted to make a holiday;
notwitnfi ndiii" which, as soon as they re
ceived information of this uncommon and
unexpected fHmmous, they nfl'.unbled w irh
a dillinouilhed cheerfi Inefs r,- d zeal, wor
thy of the cause in which vh-y w ere en-
; a.id though fhf (ituation of the sri-
would on common occdion*. have
required the work of three d y« to si- he.
for sea, flie nevt rrhelefs, by their extraoi
dinary exertions, weighed anchor in 24
hours.
Owing to contrary wind., we did not
reach Sandy Hook until the 3 1 ft tilt, at 2
o'clock P. M. when the captain ordered to
steer to the ealVtoard. in anxiou; expecta
tion of feeing his antagoniit at tlie pl ace of
rendezvous, but we did not find him there,
Capt. Bompnrd. Hiinulated by the natu
ral feelings of a soldier, to gratify captui.
Courtnay in his wish, fleered on t<> the
eastward five leagues farther, in hopes of
meeting this new champion of chivalry , and
.at (our in the qjormng of the ift «i Augufl,
then our larhonrd tacks on board
the v\ :nd heiiijj near!) north, we difcernei
a (hip close hauled witli her (larboard tack,
an board, feeing at tile fa.,>e tirn nn Eng
will brig, at uini.il we tired a gun, and
noilted our national colours, w lieu the brig
n-ore and hauled her wind 01 the fn.t
tack with the llnp, which . e were thei
• o.ivinccd was a innate with French co
lours flying.
On this, capt. Bompnrd rrdered the pri
vate tignal o be m dr, which not beiiii<
anl'wered by tiie other, lett no room to
doubt that Hie as our challenging rival.
I . our approach 10 each other, the Kof
tnn endeavoured to get !» windward, nut
without success, at ialt we got so close,
that captain Court nay relinquithed hisdif
guile, fubitituting in its room the royal
colours.
This was at three quarters part j, when
capt Bompard, ill his jacket with the tap
ol libei ty on his livad, can e lorw ard, am.
I'nndry times, in a veiy loud voice, called
capt. Courtnay byname, who, inOeall of
a common reply, very politely answered
with a broadiide,
A t/i ujw tl huzzas ! A thoujand cries rf
Viv ia liepi.biiq ie tra-cojtl announced
,o the G »rgij'i ol Halifax, the impreflion
\ nidi iheir royal artillery made 011 the
iie.irts o: Kepnblica s 1 1 !
The crew ol tlie Bo;. 011 were silent, anil
ihe netting prevented us trcin leeing the
lace of her U'ble commander,
I he Ambulcade permitted the R fton to
lho>>t ahead, and then attempted to put
abon;, but miffing (lajs, continued on the
fa.iie laik. 1 lie Bolton then wore, when
the Ambulcade backed her main a'ul mizen
copldl l, and as we pallet! began her fire; it
. a> n C quick, but > line will probably prove
cil.it 11 'i .s wclld tested.
I h. figiit (outn m d tmtii three quarters
palt fcVcn, vilien a fr.ot carrying away the
Bollou's t. ain top r ait, Ine inltaiitly wore
a;nl ade foil be on the wind.
S. e 1 un |iave futf- red severely, and we
wei e 1" niticii crip, ltd 111 our mails and rig
ging, our bracts, bowling.,, &c being c 1.1
to pieces, tnat it v,a> lome t.rne before we
could v\ tar. nor con.d we work the lliip
\\ itii the .anie difpatih the enen.y dirt.
Tie etn j by this means Ji. d gained a
ronfider -bie cult.-nee from us, being l.ili
before the wind with all 1 lie fail Ihe could
pollioly t. oud ; but we found that the Hate
oil malts won d not aomit of a pref oi
fail, we nevei thelels contiiiued the chafe
u til 1 1 o'clock, when feeing that we had
110 chaine ol i onii g up, and discovering
jPr uguefe brig, within two miles of the
B< Wo .. we made fail after and captured
her, a-aproo! of victory and the enemy's
.reft at.
We then hove to until the neceffarv re
paw., w ,re completed, & allerw aids made
lie belt ol our way for New \ ork.
We li.id seven ineu killed in the aflion,
a tl 1 j wounded.
Our people lay thrv fa'.v a number of
men thrown overboard liom the Eng'ifli
rigate; 1 lit i 1 wounded, we have great
rtafon to believe, are numerous, as our
tire, during the w hole of the afrion, was
directeu w.ili tiiat d. liberate t ►olnels, cha
rade. 11.ic o» Ktpubftan valour.
Tnefireot the Boston did much more
damage to our r.gging than to our hull,
audi wifli, lor the honour of human na
ture, thai I had it rot 111 my power to de
clare to the world, that, in contradiction
co the rules of war, generally adhered to
t>.y civil,zed nation;, they fired at usaquau
ii.y of old iion, nail?, broken knives, bio
k n pot:, .11, dbl okew bottles : A mode of
warfare with which their enemy was then
ami I ho, e ever w,II be. Unacquainted.
It may be proper to me; tu 11, that eapt.
Bompanl endeavoured to board the enemy,
in talc broken would have
proved of little service : but this the Britilh
captain prudently avoided. Whether,
when all tireumltances of the challenge
are taken into view, his nation will pi o
moie hnn for this act of wisdom, I cannot
lay. It would be d-fficult to fay, whether
the cool deliberate courage, or the inno
cent cheerlul gaiety of the citizens of the
Ambufcad., was molt confpitilous during
tilt engagement.
T hole who had never been in an action
before, were altonilhed to behold what
little ed'eft a broacifide was attended with.
1 will lay nothing of our intrepid tap
tain ; it would )e doing him an injury to
attempt hi; praise.
Our ihip's colours, torn as they were at
,ne end ol the action, have been preftnted
to the Tamn any Society of this city, as a
token of that relpect which thole virtuous
patriots merit, in our opinion, from their
Republican Brethren ol France.
[Of the Liberty Crip.]
" It is difficult to fay whence a cap came
to be the emblem of liberty We tar
trace it as fai back as the ancient Romans,
who. in the ceremony of making their
(laves free, gave them a cap. Some ligns
are natmal, some arbitrary. *1 hough the
cap may be confid, red as an arbitraly sign,
yet it leems likewise something natural.
1 o stand with the head unto ered in their
presence, is what malters require oltheii
servants ; kings expeit the bended knee or
pruftratimn ; and the pope requires his
visitors to kifd .his toe : A cap, therefore.
or a cove r ; n g f or t * e hesi', t!ie mofl
nisi »! part of the body, may well represent
.1 freedom from abjcft fubmifiion, and a
reltoraiion to the rights of man. It is as
though one should fay to another, who
flood before him with his hat under his
arm— >> Put on yonr hat l r." Heme ill
government the cap is an emblem of h ir*.'e
people, who have furreiu ei ed no more
of their natural rights, than is confident
wirh t!.e welfare of the whole commu
nity.
Bi't were the cap a sign merely arbitrary
it 1 no matter, wlien -.veil underlfood :
1 1 way not this represent liberty, as weil
ns the crown power ? Is it not as good *
lianas the liberty pole ? No one miftaifce:
(hr barber's Ijgjj ■ and surely there is no
".ore connexion ; nd refemblame betweei
the cap and Liberty,than between a iheak
el pole jutting from the house fide, and Jit
liia- ing of beards.
i he French have hitherto led thefalhi
ons, and it 111 v be tepefied, from theit
• -x mple, that liie enp w ill gain credit, and
k.oii be worn by all nations. ToolOij
have crowns been in vogue, and men begii'
now to be convinced, tnat caps are mucl:
more fafe, convenient ;md easy. It ii
cheaper for a w Mole nation to wear caps
ill mi 10 fnpport the expence of one crow n
befules, the c;*p is found not to inlpire it:
wearer with o.:d notions ol superiority."
Ihe fo/iowing CARD n{ffar< in a Ntw
York Paper ofT/iuv/dny.
'* The Friends of Mr. GLNET, and ih<
revilcrs <>t our worthy President, m iy per
hap attempt to screen themselves this daj
in mingling with the fupporteis of oui
molt excellent conllitution : This Ca
ve * is therefore proper to be given—
Let".he L.iinhs bew are of the Wolve c —u
lep .rate is (.ift—to aflociate is flange
ruic Z."
Phiit-ulhys in our next.—Siineus also, !f h<
w ill permit his jharp poiuts to be filet
down.
*»* Persons traufniitting Communica
tions lor the National Gazette, by Port
are requeued to forward thein Polt paid,
atherwife they w ill not be takin up. —Lilt
of new Subl. ribers, at d.flaiit Places wil
,'ot be attended to, if Six Months Advance
for e;<h Subfcriuer, does not aicompam
the Lill.
To be Sold or Let,
( jind oj tbtt immtaiate given.)
f 2 »-J A 1 liandlome, wtll-bui i three Itorj nev
X houle, fuwate on rhc east lide c»f food
! Itreet, ne*r the Indian Queen, Philadei
1 I is fit ation is vajuabie, being in ;
central part of the city, and convenient to thi
banks and public offices. The house ii 25 let
in liont, and, with its office;, extends nearly joc
ftet backwards. Jt has the privilege of an alle
tret wioe* The offices are three flories J »gh
and, together with the hcuie, are built of brick
theleconta:n five apartments, besides a wafli house
and loui of them have fiie places. In the dwell
ing house itlelt, there ore nine rooms and eigh
fire places ; hx of the moms are spacious, and a.
fdlhionably finilhed. Tbe garrets are ceileo ; thi
stair-case is elegant* There is a good cellar Ufidei
the whole, ana in the sard a pump.
j4nd to be Sold y
230 Atres ©funimproved la d,jS m'.lei frciti tb«
thriving town ol Hairifbufg, Pennl) 1 vafiia. Thi:
'radt lies in a valey, and is laid to be verv goot
farmirg land. There are one or more mills
the premiles. The river Juniata is about si-<
miles diitant j whence it is boatable into he Suf
quehanna, ai d thence to Harriiburg. Alio,
A desirable retrtat, or farm, in Newiow:;, thi
county town of Bucks, Pennsylvania j contain
ing nearly 15 acies of 1 ind, na urall) very rich
and now highly iiwprovea. ir is surrounded on al
lidee by public lireets or roads j and ma\, witl
preknt advantage, be convened into town lot
•hat wouid prove of growiwg importance. T hen
if a commodious brick houle upon the premiles
two fturiea in height, having rooms on ;
Ho, r, a fpacious -entiy or paflage throughout, d
a cellar extenou g under the whole hi.tfe. It
well ace mmooa.ea with out houie-. Abut tl ic
acres arc occu K .-d b) an < 1 chard of ht best giaft
ed Newt'Wn pippms r dillant from Philadt. 1; 1
25 miles j Irom Trenton $ ; from Bi 1 j1 j ant
:s within five .f the rivei Delaware. 7t 1
luuation is extremely healthy j the proftedh ar.
c.urn.inglv pitfturelque. and the neighbourhood
dftords a genteel i\ cie • .
Bifida the above,
Ixvo corJbr lon m che town, of one acre each
are ..lieieo lor lale, together with about 16 ac.e!
of; excellent iand, halt a mile fr< m the towi
the best cultuie and improvement# Iw,
or three of thele acre? are in timber.
Ltkcivije :$ be Sdd.
An ejlimable farm *t( 530 acres, in the count)
of Chciler, 39 JOi.es from Philadelphia : ioc> acre
of which are of the Hcheft bottom. Tn C whoi.
of this land tlljoys a kind, ftr«-ng ana fertile foil :
is well watered, and admiiably adapted to tht
raihng of grain and all kinds of Ifock } at prefen
there are nearly 30 acres of made-meadow, ar
20 or 30 more ot watered meadow mav be m..d
at pleaiure : about 200 are luxuriantly cove e
with a variety of valuable timber. Upon h
prem fes, there are a Turn houle, barn, &c. a
nevei stream cf good water, and a most
produ&ive apple-orchaid covering about fix acre? j
che fruit of a good and iafting quality : the pu
chaler may be accomodated with all or anv | ar>
ot the Itock or farming utei.fils upon «h* plac v e.
The position of this farm is important, lying rr
both fides of the main road, and bounded fouth
erJy by the road to Philadelphia through Down
ing-town j—whcnce it is distant 1 i or n miles :
<0- tVf.sn!) it is fc»en<ieJ uy fft&i toWarfcTek
Fornacc, ficuate hue a iew m ; !es oiltant. Ai «hia
point> the prerr.Mt* enjoy a capital Jtand bcih for
a ftoif and ravem, and also an eligible fnua Soa
for a village, which jtoiifa here h*»e • une
commanding adtantag •> and migl t be an nbjtft
to any gentlemen wilh:.g «o tvti:id an ex len live
and profitable f'ettlrftifchi On the one fide, it
has a dircft comm-j icadon with Downii g's
town j and wi.h rhe nth and populous a fettlettoenfc
of C nt'ftogo v»!ltj on the other* both witli
in a flioi r ride of the place. Tnerr is already x. -
market here for pr<>4tite a: the Phiiadtlph)J prices
tht hcighb iuring ii >n-works creating a tohftant
ufnand. P enty ot good lime ft one may be had
within 5 miles of the pietnifesj and a ri|fht to
make ole of it will be coitveved by the piopfte
tor it required, in lhoit this farm deceives thft
attention of any person or persons inclined la
avail themfeiyes of advantages futh as thoft it
polTcfTrs.
'1 he title to tut fevtral premises are indifpiita*
b!e i and the proprietor wi I warrant to defend
hem. The terms of sale, for ail or yiny of the
ands, will be made accomodating to t+ie purcha
ers. For farther particulars, apply to the fub
criber, at N'» 6- lou h Fotirth-ffireetj oral his
iloie, the corner of Mark;, and
Philadelphia.
ROB'T SMOCK.
Julv 19
One Pinny reward—the full value
of a villain.
0 AN-A WAV again from the Subfcribet*,
ai. i ulentei. apprentice, named JO FN
HUTCHINSON. a nut liKteui years od,
youug in age but oiti in in qui;y ; Jn'aii in
Itatui e, but -agreat feotindre). He if »erv
si nd ot ganiir g. addit.ed to cheating, ly
ing. laZinef>, drinking, and every other
praclitf annexed to infamy. Both lie and
liif charatter being too v\ ell known In this
arid Fredt rick cut) ty. a full defi riptiofi of
:Li>s 1 tinditla'e for the gal. ■ iw. is deemed
unnecefia-y He had on when . e went off,
a brow ii jean jacket, nankeen w lUoat and
overalls, xvoi 1 liat, liiocs will) bh ek buc
kle.', and linen iliirt, all which apparel were
illoi.ly new ; he also Hole and tarried oft"
with him, a piece of unbleached linen; a
pair ol (.otteii (lockings, a new cambrick
liantlkerchiel, a rev 1 nen fi.irt, and a pair
of large nankeen bretches. All perfoni
re cautioned against hai I- ouring <r em
ploying the loid run-away, if they wifhto
awiid troub e. Whoever will apprehend
lie abnve accomplillied rootle, ano com-
II it hmi to goal that he m > be punished for
his crimes, will render the public infinite
fertile, but if brought home the s-bove
reward unly will be paid, and that a hard,
bargain.
The Printers in the United States
arc lo far requeued to oblige a biother
Type, as to pub.ilh this advertisement.
N. W ILLIS.
Martinfburg, EerVley county,
Virginia, July 25.
AUtv toivrfljip, I.anrafier cruvly,
To uhom it may concern.
WHfc.Rb.AS my wife SakaH SHAW hath
behaved hr lei I in a very ur.btcoming manner, I
have thought fir to foiewarn ail periods
ner en my acc. unr, as 1 am cetei mined to pay
ff6 debts of her con trading, atier the catc
Hereof.
JOHN SH A V/.
Augurt Cth, 1793#
Seat of War.
OR SALE
At M. Carey's Store, 11S, Mar
ket-street.
A SHEET MAP
Of the l'j-tnch, A' ftrian and Dutch Ne
th; rlanda,
In which the progrtjs of tl: P'.jcnt IVar
may be traced.
Price three of a Dollar.
And iMAP of the
Three Northern Dirtrufls of France, di
vided into Department?— Price
one joutkh of a Dollar.
Maps of the United States :
j\ Nif t u,' ic-lpir ic poliefiea witlt
1 V. matetialb for confuting and improving the
• ?is if tiie several (tares, will )*y M Carev
'i tier very particular obl : gaiions, b) communi
,atii g them. He ;& in immediate want of some
1 r Ntw-Jerfey and Delaware j of which state%
he is now f re pa ing maps.
Guthrie's Geography .-
TFiE fublci.ption /or thu work, will be c*nti*
' ued open, a' the present rate of twelve dollar.,,
"J the si It day of November next j after which
will be raised to fourteen dollars*
AllLtlft JO.
Notice to Diflant Subscribers,
ALL person in arrears for tin. paper,
and poll m liters and others who may have
ecei\ed fubfeription n*oney on nccoun: of
the lame, are requested to make fpcedy
t tmirtances. To prevent the cities fwel
ing to an improper a.non it, no will
be continued to fubferibers after thefirlt
tiny of November next, wiio fnall then be
indebted more than lix nponths.—Pnn£tu
n:ity in fublcnbers, is the firlt requisite ill
undertakings of this nature, and wu.iout
whicii it inapoiliblf that any publication
depending merely ow fubfjription, can ionc
exist, r T
. i-FRANCE.
ISailonal Convention.
X.etter ficm General Cufline to the Mi
nider at War.
" IV 18.
" fOR some time pad I had formed a
plan of taking from the enemy a body of 7
or 8000 men whom they had pushed as
far as Rheinzabern ; but to lucceed, it
was ncceflaA- to occupy the Prufiians in
ail pans, and to deltroy their cavzlrv and
infantry, which they had at Edeltheim,
and at the didanee of a league and a half
from Landau Had I retained the com
mand of this army, 1 ftiould have deferred
the enrerprize till the commencement of
June, and tlu-n the army, better exercised,
would have been in a condition to execute
it completely ; but reflecting that I was
about to depart, and that our enemies
might advantage of their good difpo
iition to gain some success over our ad
vanced polls, which perhaps tie new ge
neral wou'd not be able to prevent, fori
want of knowing the country, in which Ik
Is to carry 011 'he war, I determined to
attempt an action.
• I sent a courier to general Houchard
with orders to attack in the rear Limberg
an ' O-tfberg, with the army of the Mo
selle, whih- Pulh should keep in check, and
attack with the reft of the corps des vallies.
a Prussian corps, who had advanced ; and
while general Sulk with nine battaliors
and some cavalry should advance tow. rd 6
Anwelier to molell the Pruflians- The
fame day the garrison of Landau had orders
to occupy the banks of the canal of An
veil r, and the vineyards and village of
Nuflcuff, with fcveral other potts, and
make the Prufiians appre end they would
be attacked in the rear, in cafe they should
make any movement. I had caused are
port also to be spread in the Piuffian ar
my, that the cavalry of that and the Mo
selle had arrived, as weil as a part of the
artilliry of Strafburg. I had ordered ge
neral Ferrier, who commanded forty bat
talions, only to shew himfelf to the enemy,
until he [hould hear that tha engagement
had commenccd, and to attack then the
wood of Rhienzabern and the Auftrians
who were in it b yond the village, Not
withllanding my orders, I did not fee his
troops appear till il o'clock, at which
time gcneial Diettman had commanded a
retreat, because the troops, being fa
tigued, could neither procure provisions
nor drink. I began to march at 8 o'clock
in the evening with 26 battriions, 3 regi
ments of dragoons, 2 of chafTeurs, and 3 of
cavalry, to repair to the heights above In
fheim towards Rulfheim. I ought to have
arrived there at break of day, but the
unavoidable delays which I experienced,
prevented me from reaching that place till
5 in the morning.
" The advanced guard, under the com
mand of general Landremont, behaved in
a manner superior to all praise ; during
the engagt ment they kept back the enemy,
y.nd prevented them from quitting the
sorest of Gemerfheim. Our artillery had
a prodigious effect on the troops of the
enemy who appeared.
" The eleventh legiment of dragoons
charged, with the grea eft fucctfs, a regi
ment of Austrian huffais, who fullained
great loss Several ot the officers '.ver e
killed on the spot. While general Lan
dremont w. s thus engaging the Austrian
array, and preventing them from advan
cing, the army of the republic extended
itfelf on the heights of Rulfheim, and
proceeded as far as that village, when the
flankers came to inform me that they
observed a column of the enemy's infantry,
with c nnon, and a column of cavalry
proceeding from the wood. I ordered the
tenth regiment ofchafTeurs to march, and
dispatched general Diettman to go and
view the, force of the enemy. As I was
certain that the enemy's cavalry confided
ot only 2 divisions of dragoons, I charged
them with vigour, and they betook them
selves to flight, after sustaining considera
ble loss. mong the number of the dead
were three officers. Had it not been for
the infatuation of the battalion, who took
our cavalry for that of the enemy, this day
would have been glorious for the troops of
the Republic
" In vain did we attempt to rally them
again—they answered only by discharges ;
and it was with great difficulty we could
■make thc-m re fume their ranks. It may,
liowever, be proper toobferve, that several
(jpippaijits of this battalion, and fosie
! others whom tliey had hunied away by
their panic, kept firm to their ports
" 1 have learned that this event was
occasioned merely by the commander, who
began to cry out—trenthery ! tieachery !
He was arretted, and I ha'e since been
told that he deilroyed himfelf.
" This day, which ought to have been
so memorable, terminated by th: tak'-ng
of one piece of cannon, and a very great
nnmber ot prisoners. The loss of the
enemy mull have been considerable, it we
may judge from the ravage made by our
cannon. Our loss does not exceed J2O
men, and is only in cavalry.
" 1 (hall not set out for the army of t'ie
north till the end of three days. Ism
afflicted with dreadful fits of the cholic,
which oblige me (till to remain.
" I mull be candid enough to inform
| you, that the command of the two armies,
"hat of ihe Rhine, and that of the Mo
fel'.e, which you have entrulled to genera)
Houchard, is superior to his strength.
" General Diettman, on whom I had
cad my eyes, and whose modelly is equal
to his talents, finds also that the military
duties of a general are superior to his : —
But this I do not believe.
" I have already solicited the rank of
general of a division for general Landre
mont—and I agau renew it.
(Signed) " CU3TINE."
[From the South-Carolina STATE
GAZETTE)
IN the State Gazette of the I 7th instant
I have read the biographical (ketches of
ioine of the leading men at present at the
head of affairs in France, extracted from
an Edinburgh paper.
The characters of MetTrs. Roberfpierre,
Pethion, Dariton, and Marat, in tliefe
(ketches, are trade particularly the fub
jeft of illiberal animadversion.
Not only againll tliefe individuals, but
againll the members of that august a'fem
bly, ihe National Convention of France,
the moll malicious calumnies, and malevo
lent inlinuations have, in a variety of pub
ications, and from a variety of quarters,
been difTeminated. To damn the reputa
tion of its members, to depict them to the
l world in an odious point of view, feemi to
jbe the objefl of such publications. Could
this be effeiied, it would be an important
point gained. It would bring discredit tc
the cause, of which they are the supporters,
and in proportion to the reduction of its
influence on the minds of men, would the
monarchical and ariftocratical interests bt
benefitted.
Had a policy of this kind been confin'i!
to those regioivs only where despotism is
tftablifhed, where tie will of the fove.
ieign, and not the vox populi, is the fu
preme law, it would not have been a fub
je£l of wonder, but surely it mud becomt
so, when in a fiee republic, the legitimatt
representatives of a great and enlightened
people, are fligmatized and spoken of in
terms of opprobrium and disrespect. When
occasions are fought to hold up, as a base
and imlamous band, the legislators and ru
lers of a magnanimous and generous na
tion : When a word, an cxprefiion, of one
of its members (and that word, perhaps
erroneously or maiicioufly translated) is
catched at for the moll mischievous pur
poses, and the theme of public declamation!
" Tell it not in Gath, pubiifh it not in
the streets of Alkelon."
I don't mean, meflrs- Printers,to under
take the defcnce of the moral characters of
either Mr. Roberfpierre, Mr. Danton,
Marat, or Pethion ; nor to advocate the
atheiflical theoiies of Mr. Dupont, so ably
combated by a learned divine, though
not so much with a view of serving the
caule of religion, as to fix an odium on the
supporters of liberty in Fiance ; but not
withflanding what has been said of thefc
king killers,prieft killers Atheifls, See. See.
charity leads me to believe that there are
at leafl as many virtuous, honell and good
men among the members who compose the
French convention, as are to be found in
the like number, colledted together in the
fame manner, in any country, or nation
whatever, with the superiority on the fide
of the French, of a much greater propor
tion of patriots, and friends to the liber
ties of the human race.
Where dodtrines immutable in their na
ture, relating to matters of government
and the rights of man, are promulgated,
they naturally become the objedt of serious
alarm to tyrants ; and as I (hall presently
(hew, it is no new thing for the satellites
of despotism to endeavour to throw an odi-
um on tenets an J principles which ilify
have no argument to controvert, by hold
ing lip to the world their propagators, as
A-retches of the molt contemptible c.ft,
ind unworthy of the notice orattention of
nankind. A# oht likenpfs begets another,
l ey wit}) to establish this inference, thai
10 doctrine can be morally good, which
< as for its p omulgarors or supporters men
tiorally bad. 1 his seems to be the specious
nit fallacious reasoning of the advocates
or expiring despotism. Hence it is, that
lefpatring of iuccefs ;n the field of argu
nent, to refute eternal truths, these chani
jions of monarchy seize every occasion to
tamp with in amy, the characters of those
vho are advocates for the righis of man.
Hence it is, th t the celebrated author o(
he work diltinguifred by that appellation,
has been lo often traduced in the English
piints and as the (light ti mark of indig
nity, been burnt in cfngy, in that boalted
and of liberty, for the propagation ot his
principles, by the common hangman. And
from the fame insidious motives, 011 the
defeat of general Gate?, near Camden
were the following exprefiions insultingly
made life ofagainit the American congrels
n a congratulatory address to earl Corn
ivallis, fubferibed by " divers loyal inha
bitants of Charleston."
"We connot but consider the late at
tempt of Congress to fuhjugate the free
ncn of this province t*o their tyrannical
lowination, as an additional proof ot their
"efllefs ambition, and of the wicked ma
chinations of the contemptible remains o(
hat expiring fa£tion who have so rect nt
y exercised a despotic and lawlcfs sway
jver us."
Here, Mtfirs. Printers, the reprefenta
ives of the American nation in oae ind f
:riminate mass, were accused by the abet,
lors of liritifb tyranny,in this very city of
Charleston, of the bale design of ftibjuga
ling the people, and of bringing them
under their, (the Congtefs's) tyrannical
' ruination. Are not the convention
charged with the fame crime? Tlu-y are
iccufed ot priffi-ffing, what the Frencli
ire said to pofTcfs, a "reltlefs ambition"
ind wicked intentions. They ;ire cJ ed a
fadlion, and a contemptible one too. The
ame thing is said of our allies. And
'hey are charged with having adtually ck
:rcifed despotic and lawlels sway.
Were these declarations founded in
truth, I would fuppo'e that the mem
bers of the Ajnericao Congrtfe, at that
time, were as r fcallv a set of fellows as
the members of the National convention
ire said to be. But hajepy for America,
that though forne bad men have ctept into
her councils, a fuflicinnt majority of
them (as the event has proved beyond
contradidion) were worthy of the conli
dence and high trufl the r country re
posed in them. And happy it is for
America that if (he has produced an Ar
nold, the is not without her Washington.
METEOROLOGICAL OBiEkf ATlOt-IS.
JULV 1793.
D. H fiarvip. Tber.\ fVn/ \Weatber
Tuesday, 30- t 30. 5 73 s. jCUutly.
3 3°* ( S6 S. W j Fair.
Wtdntjday, 31. 6 29 y 76 V, j Ram.
3 -9- > S 8c iS. W.'.Fair
Thurjday, I, 6j Z9. 95| 05 ;w.n .v. C/cuay.
3 3°- 0 77 iN.W. '.Fair.
Friday, 2. 61 30. I D 3 jN. W.' tair.
3j 30. 1 81 S. W'( do.
Saturday, 3. 6! 30.05 62 j N. \fair.
_ 3! "5 82 |w.w r. 1 do.
Sunday, 4. 01 29. 97 65 j j. \~fZ7.
3! 30. © 87 [S. W I do.
Monday, 5. 6 30.05 73 la.s. vv.j Fair.
3 30. i 90 js. W. | do*
Wants Employment,
A SINGLE MAN who wntes a good hand.
L * and is thoroughly acquainted with book
cecpin.gr accounts, eorrefpondence, &c. Hi;
idlivitv, sobriety, and fidelity can be proved bv a
ecommendation from a clafilcal House of thi'i
:ity, by whom he was lately employed—Or, ht
vould be glad to meet with some accommodation
n any part of the country within the United
States. Enquire of the Editor of the National
gazette, at Na. 209, Market Street.
N.B. No one need apply except he really want
1 person of the above description.
Philadelphia July 24. lawtf
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold at the refpedtive Bo«>k Stores o
Jofepb Crukjhank and Tbsmas Dab/on, and n a >
be had at the Printing office, No. 209, Mar
ket-Street. f Price ore eighth of a dollar, j
L E T T E R S,
IddrefTed to the YeoMasrv of the
United States:
Containing some Observations on Funding
and Bank Syjlems:
BY an AMERICAN FAXMER.
Ten Dollars Reward.
RAN a*ay from the fubfciib r i. the i6t?i
of June last, an 2ppreVtice lad named
JOSEPH CURTIS, by trade a house carpenter*
boot 19 years of age, 5 feet 9 inches high, i®
left handed, li-ht brown hair, full laced } had
in when he went away a br< wn broadcloth coat*
with mecal burtons, striped cott >n waiftroat,
and hnmrfpun linen trowfers, coloured. Who
ever wiii take up fa id apprentice, and lecure him
in jail, so that his trailer may get nim aga n,
>r t' 1 i«fg him home, shall receive the above re
ward, and reasonable charge* paid by
1 WILLIAM COOKE.
3ordentcwn, July 6, 1793. iaw3*r
Twenty-five Dollars Reward.
RAN away bom the subscriber, in Newton,
top evening of the sth instant, a Nej;ro man
idiitfd SOLOMON, abwut five feet two or three
■•ch s high, yellow complexion, pood
Ei'gliih, can read -well, and is an altive fmarc
le!lo;v —had on and took with him, a new wool
hat, linfey full'd coat, sundry veils, one striped
pattern not made up, fuir'an overalls, mew (hoe*,
and sundry others not hen* ascertained.— Whoever
will secure the above me t>oned negio in anv
jail, so that the owner gets him u.ain ill a>l have
the above reward and ail real >nable ci>a/grs, by
. JOHN DEW 1i T.
Newton, Suflex County, New Jersey,
July 6, i? 93« 4 f TavV
JUST PUBLISHED,
And 10 befoJd by Thomas Dobson. Wil
liam Young, Robert Campbel:.-
Melfrs. Rice and Co. and Jojbiif M
Ccjlloch. No. 1. North Thirc-ilreet,-
A N EXAMINATION of the late pro
ceedings in Congress refpe&ing tly?
official conduit of the Secretary of the
i'reafnry; with Observations, &c. on the
application of loans from Holl.md, negoci
:ited under the nets of the 4th and »2th wf
August 1790 —Tl.e price of the above
pamphlet is three fixteenrhs of a dollar, or
is 4d. 1-2. April 24. 2aw tf
*** The nuthor requests hi? readers to
correct the following ERRATA in the
pamphlet above meiltioried Page 5-
line ft ~2d. paragraph, lor Coalition read
Col lift <>n. Page 25. line 11—2 d - parag.
riltead of Bank, dire Hon read 14 Stock
holders."
TO 1 HE PUBLIC.
TT7HERE AS an attachment at the luit «f Sam
uel imlay and Nathaniel Imlay, executors
of the tettament and last will of Peter Imlay, de
e'eafed, has iflued out of the Suoreme Court of
Jo44cature of the state of New-Jersey* agai.Mt the
;ands of Garret Yoorheis, late of the cou it y of
M ddlefex, and rtate afcrelaid, returnable to the
liril Tuesday in September,, seventeen hundred
and ninety two Notice is hereby given to the
said Gariet Voorheis, that unless he appear and
tile special bail to the (aid a&ion, judgment
will be vntered against him, by default, and the
land? so attached Told for the fatisfadtion of fucfo
of his creditors as {hall appear to be justly entitled
to any demand thereon, and thai I apply for that
purpose, according to the form of the statute id
ivch cafe made and provided.
By order of the Court,
April 17. law. ry HOWELL,CIfc.
'Jitfi PubUjhedy
And to be Sold at the Ofhce or the National!
Gazette, No. *09, Market-street,
Th r celebrated l<rr|e ft ok. entitled—
SURE AND CERTAIN METHODS
of at'aining a
LONG
AND
HEALTHY LIFE.
Written by
LEWIS CORNAR.O, an Italian Nobleman,
When he was near an Hundred Years of Age
Willi a recommendation bv the Hon. Joseph
Addison, (Author of the Spectator)
I n the followi.ig Words :
" was or an infirm canftitution
till about forty,, when by steadily perill
ing m the course of life recommended in this lic-
Je book, he recovered a perfect state of health,
insomuch' that at fourfcore he published this
work. He lived to give a third and fourth edi
tion of it ; and having palled his hundredth
year, died without pain or agony, like one who
falls aflecp. The treatise 1 mention has been
tefcen notice of by several eminent authors, and ia
written with such a spirit of cheerfulnefs, religion*
and good sense, as are the natural concomitants
of temperance and f bwety. The mixture of
the old man in it, is rather a recommendation
than a difcreuit to it."
N. B. Tbe London edition has fo'd far 6/6 +
This American edition, handj.omcly bound and let'
tered y for 3/3. only, l. a. w. J. w.
A FEW COFIESOF THE
TRANSACTIONS
Of the Society in/titnted in the State of
New-York, for the fromotion of
AGRICULTURE, ARTS, and MANU
FACTURES,
May be ha<l at this Office.
[I'rice half a dollar.3
PRINTED BY
CHI LD S AND SWAIN E.
AT THEU »rrici no; 209, hich-st«sh»
W&A* FIFTH-STREET,
l»llAl>*t?HlA|