Numb. 56 of Vol. ll.] SATURDAY, May 11, 1793.
J-or the Nat it nal Gaze tte.
Mr. FrhN^aU,
T ONCi' thought that the people of thi:
city poflefTed patriotiJte .11 spirit. but
their late conduct lias m iiiife .eu .1 pulih .
ni.nity which reflects upon the adiniiiiftm.
tion They not only permit .1 fee of half
pri. ■ i e-t: nti. froin Great-Britain to
vilify 01. > •. aid allies the Fi each
but they t ;m. : .. -ar reflections upon them
feivei' Acr -at .re, who ityles I) mfel) A.
though he avails hmifetf o
, t citizenlhip of this country, who never
t-.oved in a higher sphere ;hi:i a hatter 1
fliop, tiil h,e made his apnta ance amoi.g
us, has I.ad the audacity, which generalh
'accompanies your mu/hroomgent v, to fay
in public. t itit t'i' 4 2 tricarti were a jet
of Jhiff.l ftilMus, they knew nothing abn,
businefAnd 011 a late occalion, on be
in/, informed of a connter revolution in
France, and that 30.000 men were flair;,
he was heard to fay, that " he was a-
FIAID THE news WAS TOO OOOJI TO BE
TRUs!" A refl/ctim p ajfed acrpfs my
mind on being informed of this infolcnte,
•vv'iich I >v ill submit to you. If the Briton
among 11s conlider themfelvesas subjects of
Great-Britain, they are certainly not en
titled to the citizemhip of our government
—11 they wilh tu be coulidei ed as Aineri
cans, they ought Co deport themfetves ac
cording y. There is no doubt that Ame
ricaSailsnerfelf underobligations to Franee
and that .i;e feel, an intere.l in her cause ;
is it not then degrading to the iaft degree to
our citizens to bear with fucli language ?
Hou- long will the temper of Americans
brook such infoiencc? The name of a Briton
is discord to the ear of many of the friend
of t le late revolution ; they have not for
gotten tiie barbarities which marked the
pr ess of tile Britiih "arm , tile devsftu
ti > 1 of th-ir armies, which, lice the lu
cu Is of Egypt, spread run w lerever they
a.pa uacired ; it wnttld be pruitent ttu'fe
fora for Britons and their friends to sup
prels their calumnies and rejoicings, left A
mericans, with the generolity, may aifopof
fefs the resentment of the lion when roused.
It appears that the Engli nmen who have e
migi atedto thiscou.)try,conlider
as a superior order of bei 15s, a fpeiies o
nobility, altho' in their own country they
gazed at nobility at an hu nble dill 1 ice. As
they have acquired a consequence, and in
deed a fortune here, which they never
could have arrived at at home, thev
ought to befatislied .vith 'lav: lg tlie_/?atim
of men and condition of equality without
afpiringto pre-eminence, which their ta
leiitj. capacities, or indeed any qualificatioi
whatever, dius not entitle them to.
Should any further info'encies escape froir
the person to whom I have alluded, I Ihall
feel myfelf jufhfied in giving his name to
the public,
May 7. A H IN T.
IIEFLEC I lONS on Various SubjeHs,
[From a Bolton Paper.]
r. An a according to the de
finition of lo 111 e high-flying ariiloci. ts, is
ao independent citizen, who is totally de
tached from every lucrative expectation,
cither by oi'rici. 1 appointments, bank divi
dend, or the rife and > all of funded Hock.
A man who attempts to support the Fede
ral Constitution upon its original Republi
can principles, and dares censure the ad
nuniltration of government, when it ap
parently tends to eUabiiih the interest of
individuals, to the injury of the merchant,
trarlefmen and mannfaflurer ; when a
man of this character prefuines to arraign
the conduct of public men, and i.iveftigate
public measures, the arillocr ts, \Mth
mouths wide open, begin to cry out a/.ti
federalijm ; and a hue and cry immedi
ately itfues to blad his reputat on.
A Frderali/t, according to the definition
of the fame people, is a man who has.quit
ted every kind of business but /peculation-,
whose who e dependence in life, is 011 the
intereJt wh eh the public funds neat him
whose political creed is, to believe in the
infallibility of the financier, and to pro
mote every measure, however ruinous to
the community, provided it supports, or
does not injure the financeermg lyllem —
To complete his character, he mil be an
high advocate for the payment of Impoji
and Ey.cije. He mult he a violent oppofer
of the French nation ; more particularly it
he formerly made, his fortune by them' —
These traits, with a blind fubmillion toe
very thing advanced by particular men,
By P. FREN EA U : Publiflicd Wednesday's and'SA tuktiys, at Three Dollars pir annum.
Lonftitute a mode n pat iot, and ftaunc!
Fede aliji.
2. she .'uccefs ofthe French nation'notde
pending o.i the jeconntspubiifhed in uewi
pupcr itis but of litcl- con cqueiice whe
...er the tached paragr in fume o
■11 r A :ericau papers, arc favorable or o
lerw Cr, sis tlif-y rei'j.eft rhe ijfue 01 then
evolution. Th. b ave and fpinted peopl<
cm to depend oil the .i.odnefs of thei.
c lift, and their own personal pro\yef», to
e lablilii their Republic ; beiiii, convinced
that the pvweis that surround them, are
racticing every base art and intrigue to
d feat their purposes. There i- a dignity
■id independence in their conduct which
aatui a ly difgu.is their »neniies, both in
1 urope and 1.1 this country. M e dally ee
iiie operation of this prejudice in fume <>;
our Auiericap newfpap. rs. There appears
the faint* rancorous disposition among a
particular dtf.ripuon of men, to vilify
and deiaine the National Convention, as
there was cr.iltiog in tf.c breaitsor tiutch
in/oii, a id his coadjutors, the Cioii
;.refs, and the legillatli; es of the fever. 1
Itiues, during our conti it with Great-Bn
iain. CeTrain papi-r> in tills town, and
elfeuhere, seem as if they were employed
><• publilli Xhcfe matters (and only)
which place the French in the piuli d .f..-
greeabie point of' view ; and the tear of
iyrnpathy is often excited, by accounts fa
br.cated in England, refpefting the cruelty
.if the F ench to their murdered
to the beautiiul and t.noce.t queen, a,id
to the pretty little dauphin.
I'hus we fee accounts pubiifhed withg.ea!
avidity and a degree of afl'uranie, feitinj
forth in the molt pathetic terms, the bar
barous and savage manner in which the
king uas Informed of his sentence, am
he ftifi more savage manner of his execu
tion—that the queen was "thrown into ;
lijmal dungeon, with common malefactors,
i.id aiti wards moll cruelly executed—
and- ;n if i <£)ii|ilrte tie tale of horror.
that the daupfiirt was tled to dear/i. Sticr
d tefni jlories, n tu: illy tail forth thefym
pathetic tear of humanity. Hut so far fron:
th.ir bei.ig true our last accou its frou
our republican allies, contradict in poli
tive terms every fiuli nnluiou-, fa.feai c
infamous aflertion. The queen and het
family were Itill in the Te nple, and were
trea ed with as much tenderneP- a pofEble.
The last \ ill of Loui- is also
with avidity, jul't to anfvver particular pur
poses—but let any impartial perfou reflet
for a moment, anil he will believe it ;
falfehood, and Monkilh forgery : A
defcriMui ir' that dreadful Inflmmen.
of death, called a Guillotine, which tool,
off the unfortunate Capet's head, H is beei:
I ike wife pubiiihed. as if to raise our resent
ment against the people of Fra'ice : Bui
llioukl they not have given as h ; gh - wrong':!
a representation of the BAS : ILK ? Nj
ticingat the fame time, that if the forn/et
was tne machine that decapitated Louis
the latter was the prison, i i the caverns ol
which, thoujands, and perh ps tens of thou
lands, have expired in lingering tortures
It is to be noped, however, that thepeo
pie in these states w ill so far suspend tii i
judgment, as not to condemn the whole
French nation—but wait with p itienie.til
wecanhave authentic intelligence from tin
convention. For let us remember, thai
there were formerly corrupted chant els
through which every vile insinuation ua
forwarded to Britain. Should we look o
ver the Britilhpapers printed during the
late war, wefhould find the fame abuse o
our patriots, and the fame refleitio >so
our public measures, as are now so libe
rally bellowed on our Gallic friend . Bui
it is no doubt the wish of every real Ame
rican, and the Sincere prayer of every
I'rienc! to the Rights of Man, that Franca
may be as fuccefsful as America,againlt liei
enemies ; and a further wish is. tnat wher
they have established their Republic, thej
may never nourijh in their bu/'om, foes t<
their revolution ; nor adopt filch measure
as w ill throw every blefiing refultiug fron
the fame, into the hands of men who ftooc
aloof in the "times that tried melt's Jouls
3* The arm al of tne French ambassador,
will soon determine what part the Uriitei
States are to lake jn the present eonteft ol
France with the powers of Europe bis
comnuffion without doubt is explicit, as
rhe nation seem determined to know who
:ic their si ta* ds and who their enemies
An acknowledgn ent of the Republic rj
Fra.ce by these (fates, is a queftiou that
vill dniand a categorical a'Jwer. The
French nation eoniider the United States
is their allies; and the Executive of the
Jnion, it is hoped, will treat their
sailor with that attention which is due to a
epreftneative of so resectable and povc
,-r nl a Republic.
77/.': a'je of fra"ct it the cewje of uni-
I'erjat liberty, and notwithttanding the
.>a.try i extracted principles .which govern
p rtKl ...r perfom, scattered through tile
f ve/ai it ites, it is prelum d that every
friend lo the " Rights ot M:.a" in Ameri
ca, will conflantly f«cl an attachment for
their Frcnch brethren, and not fuffer the
partial i.itereft of a tew ariltocrats. (or ra
ther tones, whole fouls are übJorlSd 111 the
funds) to influence our conduct with res
pect to :hem.
Let it be.; emembered, that Dumouriei
is ctwiteiidiiig thecaufe both of I- urope and
Amer;-.'a, and God grant him success
4. It .-difficult to conceive uhy any prea
cher oi the got pel (mil id be oppoied .0 thf
F cncV Revolution ; finely 1 hev hyve been
fi> e) r 1 pi aycrs, that ' An
ti, 1 '*5 KitgU'in/ may lie deli toyed —
And j not pi ovide ue in that glorous Re
vo; r ofi, tiaily aci O'rplilli ng this delirab.i
eve.'*? And ought Hot our cccleliaftics to
prac that fuct el k may atter d the arm-, o
til? cutztn soldier- tff the riling Republic,
in 11,I 1 ,- 4- Oruftion of the B-bylon?
Oi r ■tber than Monarchy and Ariltocracy
I.lolld not tie overtnrown, are they wil)ihi>
MaSaM Ihoti d /tiil continue to deceive
the nations—! ! '
. For the National Gazette.
To the C tTtzENs of the I nited St ates
pi T-i for the uolortunate, ftnlibibty for
it'e di.trciled an. gratitude tor favors
1 ,'ceived, areamo gft 1 ,e forenioft virtue
ot the human lica.i, and will tver tenia;
to be a priiHip.il character (tic ot a goou
uian. But p.ty is iiot confined to a party,
leniihil.ty is not awake for kings alone, nor
StfToiufi ,1 >rrat;tr;*'e for favours r<
ceived, make- you the blind adtoc.ites ot
your creditor, to the unjuit ruin or cenfurc
of others.
Then, . oinmiferation is not due to the
family ol Louis Capet oily, but also to
that ol iVLciiuel Le Pellefier —fenlibi ity is
not alive to the fuiuriig oi Anioii ctte
alone, but also to the dittrelle:, wants and
pains of widow .orphans, ind soldiers, the
victims ol ner pride—aiidtaou hue may
have received an advantage th oi: fc h tlie
meats of Lou; XVI. yet we are o, i;
gratitude boitnd to fuppo. t him in a \\ rong
thing.
To weep over his faults and his fate, is
tow ep over the weaknelles and mister
tu let o; the human race, a chfpc fition
which will always be cherilhed by tlu \\ fe
and good, but the brea.> of the juit judge
is armed againli partial tenderi els, and as
lo:.g as lelf-dcfeilce unto death, is per
muted to niaii, he vviii not prevent the
1 . o.'d ol the executioner f. em fallii.g liea
vy upon the condt mnctl oi njs country,
muc.i ;.ls will he curie and persecute for
pity's fake.
Then, to every lover of mankind, toe
very admirer of? fitnplc and natural form
o: government, how ciifgnliing nitill it be
to hear the eulogy, the deification of iy
i tnts lung in yourftreets, and to lillen to
tne execrations Which some of von utter
igainlt the French nation, for executing
heir late king! ; low aftonilhing, to read
the numeron publications, echoes of Bri
cilhp pers anti f. ntiments, upon that fi;b
ject, w liich are printed in different parts of
- ''is countiy ! And how indignant must the
r rench be at the behaviour of many people
ot the eastern slates, \\ ien the accounts of
.hat t ttaflropue was firll received amonr
them I
Fellow-citizens, through the purest mo
tives for the food, and as 1 conceive, for
the honor of my countrymen, I am induced
to offer to the public all expofhilation with
vou upon this fnbjeci —an expostulation
tec b1 y executed indeed, when compared
with the flrength of its cause, but not al
together without merit, being diluted by
a hpart finceiely attached to the rights o.
man, defiroui of preserving you in a con
liftent character, and of imprefiing upon
your minds fotne plain truths.
We lometimes iali into error in forming
a haftv judgment ; we fomet'ines receive
very wrong opinions* froto cthrrs. by a
kind ot intention, without the judgment
being excrc;fed at all ;of one or both of
theie defiriptions arc prcb: bly some of
those who difiiLe the rig d proceedings of
the French Convention in geutiai. and the
[Total No. i6o.j
decapitation of Loiiis Capet in particular ;
yet are fully peiliiaded tilt America was
in her contelt with Great-Bi itain ;
a,ui being in their own opinion good i epub
licans, mention the aas 01 iwir govern
ment during the late war, as a proper ex
ample of moderation ; of inch, however,
there is a reasonable hope when the) eou.e
to reflect coolly ; and .0 then! this elliiy
chiefly belong,. There is anotlie r cla.s of
men among UJ, who are Violent agai lithe
French, and they are pretty numerous too,
many of them h-avlng got into < flic us, are
endeayourii:g hard, and with .cine prof,
pett of fu cess, to turn t legoverrinii ,it in
to a monarchy, cr ah ariHocra. y : 1 hefe
are men who timik a;;er the manner of
Ularai and Buike, th .t the body of the
people are 110 where futhcient.y learned
and rah to govern themfeives, bi;t thai a
divilion of the miiab tants into certain pri
vileged or lers. would be admirably con
ducive of tranquility to the fu: ect;
a glorious piail. whe.tby the toils oi life
miglit;'be more happily distributed : j'o
.hefeihe exhatllting fatigue of planning
taxes jind goVei ni i£ would be allotted it>
fiofe,fcutli,y ,about and obedience. Many
of thceu Oj.e.dy l..ugh a: the idea that go
vefniieiit be oevonoinic .1 and nr.
tuousj an iota, a project, fay th'ty, very
ti.ie in theory, but altogether hr.prad ka
•>le : liilhoi t, that imperious and ferufe
manners will always coirinue, and that
Jie belt poliible conltitution is that which
Uaiies the people into Ki gs, Lu ds and
Commons, as in England, where the po.
, ul ice have long enjoyed all the eiju ,;ity
and happiness of which tile hiimail kind
is capibie; aid other I'liih like train, for
\v liichr 1 7 year.- ag6,they w < u.d I avt 1 eceiv#
ed a tarring and ie-ihvri .g, or t.i mo e
luminary mode of payiiie.it, the h; .t 1 ,
iet thele fame lj«eii,who thl'S open.J vow
thc;r attachment ta monarch) a..U arilto
cracy, and their hatred of republican
prinuples, pretend that m ( uh tiiude i»
. ue by the Americans to .Louis 3TYT, fic
tile !uppoi\ he gave them: Whether po
liticians of this llamp weri inltriiii e.ital ill
me American Revolution, or 1o- whe
ther they now occupy the ilation ot a pri.
vnte tit zen or oi a V ice-Prehdent, there
is but little room to expefl that 1 eaftin will
have any influence over them; they are
therefore Ictt to the fate of the incorrigi
ble tones i>l 17/6, with whom are en
tirely the fame in principle, and 11 many
instances theidentical persons ; however
to them some p..it oi (his address may ap.
plv.
There are fetet l religious denbm.fnati
ons among us, who h< Id it to be unchiiO
tiajl, b) lorce oi a.ni« to rd:(t evil, and
perhaps they arc right. but it is not with
fucli that we conttWl, but with thole who
admit as jufiifiabit, tnc killii g of an enemy
or hi abettor, whb is endeav oul'ing either
by open 01 iccret means to tuftroy our life,
or the I ves 01 tiiole tv:io ait i.e«r in t i t ar
tons; and i pon thi print i],l# v , e are to
decide, it tiicii rtmauis only to latisfy the
impartial reader, that Louis XV 1 did
certain adts, for Which an oidinary peif.>n
would have been pnnithafclc with death;
in order to prove that the Frefich Nation
lias nottransgrtfled the rults of human
prudence and of common pra£liie, in in
tiiciing that punllhhitiit on him. To those
who art conversant ih the w orid, it i.- w ell
known, th: t there is 10 triiih, Imnu'r
well it may be ftibiiant ated but w hat ny
be II tly denied ;it lit t;l j.ot (lie be at.
ter of great amazement, that , mong Hie
li.tereit.-dand thagi mtdpai tizrinsof k ngs,
there ihuai.tl be some w i:o deny that Louis
ever committed a crime ; bin the chalets
lectetlv counteracting the views oi the
other branches of government, of f> p
plyiiig w itli money, the enemies oi the
Itate, who were in arm- upon the borders
ot the Republic; with the avowed intuiti
on oi del roying that conliitution which
111 had fwotn to support, are so well elta
bliflitd by incont oVertibk iafl;, th. (it is
as tifele.s to deny them, as to deny th.-t a
ny blood was (bed on the 10th of Aucuft
or at any other period fine the Revotrti-"
on 01 this his wist ft friend? are fofcnf ble
th.it they puthis chief defence in a plea of
the inviolability of his j erfon, in a difpiay
o! hi- virtues, and in a recommendation of
that len.ty, which, whenever prudent, is
due to all men ; each oi these pleas or ar
ttiments w ill be in its turn corifidered
liitt, altho' neither my abilities ror
leisure is equal to tic talk of giving a full
detail of all that would be uletul to know,
nor of doing complete ju'ftiie to the French
cuule, yet it may be ndefl'ary to go a lit
tUr further back than the preleut day, andtake a cursory view of the three nation'
w.i c'l are the inoft frequently mentioned
or . hided to in the course of this mvelti
gation.
France, blest in a happy lituation, cli
mate a.id so.i, has.al ways, fro 11 the tiuie
that it aa > iirii knownlto tjte Ro:nans un
til the p. efeut d iy, made a very coilfpicu
ous ngure in . hdtory of Europe; her
so i t io' natur.iliy brave and fcrtiible, tho'
fonie.ime* the repeliers of the invaders o'.
tiie ,s r » la id o the South, lay l'or many
ages cie prey o' internal diviiio.is, of a
bin I relyio 1, nd of unequal laws ; edu
cated in prejudice, they idolized their king,
and gl pfitii i i thei chains; bur being at
last umtea, they beca tie a Herculean peo
ple holdi ig the diltatt of Omphale.
T ie i VubiCa lisot Britain, a neighbour
ing na:i >n though f r enough reuiovec!
from a full poH'eflion of their natural rights,
liad caught a spark from the altar of liber
ty ; buttle) ailumed to themfeives a de
gree of perfectio i in this respect to which
th?y had no just claim; and defp f d, ha
ted tne French, as bigots in re. gion, ant;
lltves of a despotic government.
We, the citizens of the United State .
mo:t)y fpr'ung from Britiih a.lcetVors, who
retained many of the prejudices of their
native country* particularly agiinlt the
Pre ich, valued durfelves upon a fuppoliti
on that Englishmen. with whom we ac
cou ited ourselves but as one people, w re
the only free, generou>, and hum aepeo
ple in the world : At length we perceived
th it much ofour boafled fiperiority was
ideal, that what we actually poffl O <1 was
like t.i be taken away, th.it tne Britiih na
tion and court, were co rupt, avaricious
and i.ifolent; that reliftance to opprellion
was lawful; that the true sovereign of a
country wa the people; and th it »'kiiig
■was unneceflafy. The B iti.li ridicuied e
very idea if p ■ fe.tio 1 >eyo id their town
con'litution of ki ig. lord- and cmnimim ;
c'i '<1 us with being teachers of impracti
cable theories, murderers a.,il matlm ieii
o '* : g ling charaftei s, ilc yet, we
believed Ma voice of reason, we declared
tn.. e vould relilt violence. we put our
Ihouliiers :o tiie wheel, we called upon the
French Hercules, he came, u c fought the
Briti li centaur, and wo became free.
Wiiiift the favour was recent our grati
ttlde wa warm we declared that we
\v •>■. I ie ive to th ■ Fre en like b. others,
for that they had so behaved to us; in
their marching and countermarching tnio'
on - jutltry, in pr urbanity aid th irt dif
cipiine were such. that the enemies of li
berty could only tjharge tiieni with finiftet
views. which they d.d, from a certain
knowledge, as they pretend d, of the pro.
je.t o tie Frenc i court: But wh never
might b? the intentions of the court, we
experience of the prop e, wt
tlTj'.ight them worthy of freedom, andoui
wi.hes vere, that they might enjoy ir.
And in fa t, as, according to the ancient
ftyry o Greek Vlyttio.'ogy, the arrows
With which the son of Alctnena fl w th.
nionfter Nefsus, ;o .n mi
bnfom, a poison that inlinuatcd itfelf even
to the marrow of his bones, from AiiuV
not ling con Id redeem hint but the funerai
pyre; which, confu ning al that \i .i
earthly, left nothing but th ' p.|re spirit re
nTainitig; so the haiidiing"* , '. l t.i. arrow?,
with whi.'h was pierced tne BfitUi Centaur
of tyranny. com nu licated into the bosom
of France a subtle slime. vn ch has incor
porated it el with every member o*' the
body: VJiyitiitim confu ne every par
tide of oppreflio i leaving nothing but the
pure fpir r or'reafon and virtue.
Aire idy it has become a furnare. meltrnc
down a I monarchical, ari tocratic I, anr
Inquisitorial principles; the heat of which
is so great, that all Europe io too small foi
those nia iarch; t iriftocrats. a d iK|ii;li
tor . to breathe freely: Even our America!
heroes, intoiica e l with power and riches,
cannot bear th tell of its fiery ordeal —
At ft. I they pr fed the properties ot lighl
and of heat, then becoming red-faced a
with guilt, tuey turned their backs, and
extolled the oblique rays of the Britiih Sun
—it lad. becoming frantic with rage and
pun, they roa. like Phalaris in his brazen
Bull: — Vet their roar is not the roar ol
despair. for we di'tiniily hear these words,
" Oh, ye ( tjrfed teachers of impracticable
dortrines'.—Oh, ye French rebels, murder
ers, madmen !— i)h. Franklin, thou de
ceiver. Thou enemy of the Heft of men, the
inrtdioufn'efs of thy deligns* will Ihortly ap
pear, &c."—Repubii ans. do you luff.r
such to rule your country ?
That there-is a very considerable party
in the United State?, extrtdely mimical
to the principles ot the American and
French Revolutions, is generally believed ;
and if we in y judge from tlie Ie ees. the
form of doing bulinefs, the numerous ap
pointments, and other foibles and extra
vegancie" of government —together with
th - exprelfions so current, refpefiing the
ftr.uggles of Frenchmen, decemined to be
free we have no reason to doubt it. In
deed. I have been informed, from good
authority, that it was aftonilhing to hear,
\vh it sentiments were dropped in the Con
VENTion, held in Philadelphia, in ft!;.
refpe;Yi ig government an<l equality : then
if there were at that period ailonifhinp
* See a Inter direfla !to B. F. Bache
»'/ the Gazette of the United States, of Fe
bruary 2 $d.
proposals for monarchy and fervilitv, as I
umlerftood it, it is nut altogether fu. r ri!i:]jv
tnat ai,.r live yearo apeh... the m<vmers U
u'lit.ments theßritqh ciTurt, tuere&iouid
b.' many W hi> are in neari'aver IV from tne
political tenets 01' tne Freiw-h republic ; be
cause the pur tv of their creed is greater
than ou. s, siid in fonie rejects w'ounth
tne pride of each ind.viduaj, Specially ;f ne
is rich or in oihce, u,,ie.* he is deeply in
tiue iced by the precepts 01 a meek religion,
or nas thorougniy nnbioetl the fp.rit of a
natui at and government, oi
actually lilt the iron liand of opprefiioii.
tioin my own obfervatioas, it is clear tc
uie. thai tiie simple appellation of (.j . i -
zen, lubificuted in tiie room of Air, oir,
Eiq. &c. is so ga.l.ng co the pride of 'many,
thaL tor this aflroiu alone, they would wn
''"o'y facr.fice tile irecdo/ii of milium. ;
and a. chef , ench iiave 111 tiiefc particulars,
remounted to the i'ource of reafun, the\
have thereby made enemies of a numerou*
throng of tiifle, s, wiio now catch at tut
uec.-.jjitacioii ot the late king, ill order tc
vent, uncler t!ie semblance of pry, then
hatred of natural and pnilofopnic manners.
( i o be continued.)
To the EDITOK »/ the >iATIONAL
GAZETTE.
never was a foreign fubjeel
l which agitated and divided the mind
"t the people of this country more than tht
revolution in France, a'ld perhaps never
were more linjull concluiions cfpawn res
pecting that revolution, and more pains ta
ken by mi lilteria! writers in Great Britain,
ind tlic enemies of France here, to diilort
the .conduct of the French patriots* a:.i.
to .jure up every phantom of iiorror and
carnage to alienate the affections of Ame
ticans from them.—Without enquiring in
to the truth or talihood of the many char
ge againit tin . nation ; without trTfcin;:
: le misrepresentations to the jealous tin
e lvions and malignant authors of thetli a
. rofs the channel ; without even an at
:empt to prove them unfounded ; I /ha I'
Jirely co llider the revolution in itfelf, c
-lS object, without an attempt to difJ>rovt
ts attendant tircumllances. It will ho
foubt be conceded that oppreflion wist •
-aule, and liberty the end of the revolt!
ion ; and here I might enquire if it wt r
,'olfible in the nature of things, that a ti an
ition from despotism to r ecdom Ihoul
..ike place, without coiti.ion arc] blood
lied : —A revolution may ch, lge the ft;".
i>ut cannot immediately change the natur
al man, and no great national change evt
rook place without the greatell diforder
l i revolutions which have fortneir objec
he pol tical happintfs offociety, we ougli
0 regard the end more than the means,
lie principle more than the aflidn ; iV -Z
:':e great Sully well observes, "in all im
-ort mt affairs which tend to the gener,
;<>«d ic is to the canje only, and not to tin
>erfan«, we mull he attached : for the for
Tier pref nts but one lingle view, where-::
ie lat.te. is fiibje£t to change, and present:
lull a variety of hateful objects, that dole
y to coi lider them would give us difincli
'a.ion 10 tiie inolt iifeful and necefl ry en
erpriles." It is a common thing with ma
iy amnrg us to execrate the revolutioi
jecaiife di for tiers hive happened ; or i:
ither words beca:<fe tie French are tne;. ,
t would be a new and an astonishing phoe
; menon in the hiflorv of human nature
1 it could have happened without many o
he dn'orders which are attributed to it
'tit do they change the natnre of the thin
for, or make it less desirable ?
say that many of the leaders of the revy
ution a"*e infamous, does it therefore fc»l
ow that the natidtiU unworthy of libertv ?
say that a mob in Paris has beea "tiilty oi
uitrages, niuft this condemn the whole na
tion to feivitude ? Say that a majority o)
lie convention have condemned the kinj
° death, even unjuflly, is his lile to be pn;
n competition with the happiness of mil
ions? Many violences were committee 1
luring the American war among us, bat,
lecaufe of them, ought we to have been
:ondemned to British fetters? This is a
node of reafoniag deflructive of a change
n governments: for. a degree of licenti
lufnefs and temporary monarchy mull ever
efult from civil commotions, and a tranfi
ion from such extremes as servitude to li
>erty. The human mind tannot at ontt
it tommod 'te itfelf to sudden and !
.hanges in its condition—time niuft be sl
owed it ; and an abllraiflon of the caufe
if fermentation, before it can be fettletl
lown into a reflecting calm. Irritated con
fantly by the enemies of the revolution
■vithin.&ifimulated to violence by thecon
lu6i ot the conlederatetl tyrants without,
he French have not hat! a moment of tran
luility to organize their government, am'
>urfne a plan of conduct in correspondence
''■ith tine I'ober dictates of their own natural
;ood sense. or of prudence. Their revolu
tion is an experiment unprecedented inhti
man anairs—the if?ne is not yet known, ant'
it argues raflmefs, or malignity to pro
nounce upon it without allowing a lull op
portunity tocarry it into ctfect. °That des
pots and their fatellitesfliould inveith with
mtternefs againll the Prench, is not in the
leaf!: surprising, as they are warring again!!
tlieir very exiltence ; but that men Ihould
be found among as who fhonlcl wifli iil to
'iieir cauie, because excefics liave take.i
place apicng them, is to me a fubjeft of
wonder, and I can reconcile it in 110 other
way tnan by iuppoling, th : i: ,-y 're/eitner
c::e.;iies to our government, cr ene.mies to
' .ie people ; en i n.'s to our governmer.i
from rnetr attachment to the tiritith go
vernment, or enemies to the people from
a clciire to lee a I u1 e miscarry winch li i
the eqvol Yig/itt aiiihapipinejs of the people
tor its object.
An OLD SOLDIER.
May 8, 1793.
0 the Editor of the National Ca-
ZETTE.
jN the Nr.tional Gazette of Wedoefc! l )
-• xr'*' * a piece (igned kt a Citizen
of Newcaltle County," in which it is at
tempted to brow the difgrhce co'nfeqnem
on the omiflJon of ciuty, in not opening tin
Circuit Court at New-Castle in time, or
Jud3e Iredell, But Sir, th'.sis an imf. ir a 1 <1
nncamlid llatement of the;friatter; and;
think that I can make it appear, that tht
move refppftabie magistrate is not in tin
lead chargeable with a breach of dirty. Tht
federal Court which fat in this city, die
'iot break lip until late on the Saturday
preceding the Monday when it was to havt
been opened at New -Castle. F.verv one re
collects the very bad weather which pre
vailed on that, and Lhe fy.ccceding dav
when run, St when being Sunday
the Judge might not think it fx proper t<
travel. The next day however, lie ft.
out, and got as far as Wilrmngton; v. here
the stages flop, and where he was obligei
to wait until morning, as the weather . n<
roads were dill io bad, that a Jiorfe an
chair, which he must have lih'i din order t<
pioteed, could not travel. So far, there
fore, from Judge Iredell's " having no pro
per excuse," it mull be evident, that he ha
e\sry necelFary apology to make for no
attending in time. I w ill not retort upoi
the Citizen of New-Castle countv," ;• r
fay bow far the marjhat of the Hiflritl, wa
inlpable in omitti g to open the com t 01
the day appointed by law. when it migh
nave been adjourned, and the bufinefspro
•eded 0:1 the next day, and the pco,
: hereby prevented irom going home wit
■ lit any bufinep- bring don- ; ,1 I only wil
o (hew that Judge Iredell was not t<
blame.
J- M.
May 10, 1:93.
EXTRACTS
1 From 1 ate trench papers.
Florence. Itb. 15 —The news of tin
pretend d difp rlion of the French
d'on in the Mediterranean has great v
el. vatecf the sprits of the pope :he all<
' ounts mmh upon the icceffion of Grea
Br tain to the ail ed powers. The holy
■ <ither h,|s the vaniiy nd io'ly to imagine
■ ';.it with 10or 12-ocogowned miiitia-uitn
tie can make bead ag.unft the troops o,
■ ranee. The French emigrants, and th
aunts, hanging about his court, have
inliilled opinions into him that will one
day prove more fatal to him than af> hifin
i.l the church. As to hi' means of-\\ arlart
with tht French, he has a few ruliy gothi,
cannon, bat not a lingle engineer or gunner.
'O that it i. plain he makes 110 dependence
in his artillery, but lelies on a faftr de
fence. viz, iiis miracles, the fu erftitiou
Ipirit oi the modern Romans, and St. IV
ier. Theft are his flores, bis resources.
a .dthi his general. Nothing but abso
lute conquelt can ever m t >ke Rome free.
Piie neck of the people s coii'pletely un
■ ler the pontifical yoke,anil tveu themonkfr
hf the 1 zth century were nut a whit more
fanatical and ignorant, and there is not a
ra.e of men 0.1 earth, Sam >iedes, Laplan
ders Negroes, or Patagonians more eftran
?ed from the nc.tur..l dignity of man.—
I here was a few day- ii ice a report at
Rome, that a fori oi the king ol Great
Britain was on his way thither to take
command of the papal troop; agaim:
trance; and from thence some peoplc
irgued that George the 3d. inte ids ro
-redt England into a Catholic ki. g lnm !—
It isnot only the people in Rome!.that art
laves to fupei Itition the v. hole tityis in
' olvi d in tile* mod deplorable tl r ..'1:
nd there are not 20 peTon-, iiicludino the
rjrdinals, who do not wori. Ip the pope
Ind believe in thw exiiceiKf of S > ->n- To
rtablifh a government in filch a place up
-m the great principle of the Frer,. ii. the I
vereigHty of the people, would be impofii
ile, and Equality would be an unintelli
jiiile word before wretches who dare no:
00k even the prince of Bop-Jiefe in tht
!ace. The only rational plan then fre
rrance is, the definition <1 t)e
:emporal power, and the reft will fail oi
:ourfe.
Paiis. Feb. 19. —Th? holy Inquisition
it Madrid, have at last finiflted the r p-c
l ess upon the da-wttable books publitheo
m i g2. The number is immense, am
they hive given a lift of the 111. What i
reman able is, the two I• ft bull ol the pope
are included in the n;iniber, under pre
tence of being forgeries.
March 4. —The English court are faiilv
embarrafit il for the means of carrying o:
the war against us. Pitt is counting npo
a loan of 12 millions fterling,f. om. privatt
iiiercbants j but it is a fait that it ii not i:
their power fq. fippV-him. T a;-,, •
cipjt.u aiu i-i'i,o(B «..,c ' . vrli ,g
i.potts to V «y ilie'ex,i.Mi'e.o' a Sp,.,jfh
iriu .irji-nt,.bji from i. „ ar , , >,
tin lurplus has ;,,.,, J . a
v hal taxes or dime can tim, lav' to
tace the loam. th .t ;. ?
llltk aiici o hi. »> ~ i it r e
the war the government 'i, s fiddl-d on
1 ' nanoii is ol a nature; d,-in{t from .11
lorjner ones, mil that if
ci r I'aiKe, ilie mu r. .5 e c u j., ( j
• I'd inevitably become .... . ... „ Pr The
Jjreat bankers dare not joh even to f- f - ti
i.ite upon the loans cIL red them, anil the
iiiimlter i- trying to (t L,,. n the cre .
anUty of the nat.on by j, g patriotic
,i;ts, a l.i.ce wlncfi n d fonje 'mall fnc
efs at Vienna, but proved ,touu the n„-
verty a n weaKnef, ofthei, cnt.
lo give it countenance in > : K |.,r.d feme
gtea. banking houf.a come for,v.-,rd w.th
iiicii contributions, alio the v have fume
Hopes that John Bull wil, \ r
example.—Ml ch is ejyjecied from an al
i,»v* r V 'r 1 rf 1 ot ' ,Vl *' • but we
have rt ~f .n lo thn.K that.tiie I iw'ifli v ill
bectuped, and the youna (lake <-r Aleut'a
p . ,b e t-° "cunning for the old ioxes of
Buckingham house.
Mar J, 5 — The American papers men
tion the continuance of the bloody v. or
l i'^ l f EG i £tl ' lf "t« & the interior Indians.
Ihe li.iKl.ern tribe* seem aifo to be io>iiin<r
the general league, chietiy owing, we are
alltirul, to .Spanish intrigue, which will
..otctafe to liarrafs the United Stares, in *
vheiame manner a>:tdid the French in
■ i ... o.a. i hof. 1 Itaieo are rapidiy re
loi trd tobyaf. t or men who will u'ot fail
l ° , corn, » ,t tndr republican p ircn-les ;
1 a,t the emigrant. !rum St. Dominpo.
i hey tarry uitli theni their slaves, their
" (l their vices, which are by no
means few in number.
It is observed by phyfHaus that from the
philanthropy of Cu d of natui e, cer
t i c!ilea.es which formerly tormented
.j ankii-d have dimppe; K d wholly, or in
,reat part, from the world. May'we not
•on hope that th. di| ( ,f e of mon.rchv,
o. fetnan alt the plr £l!e? of Lgypt, is alio
-pnliy verging toils per,od?
1 he convtnrion are forming designs a
nnft Rome that no fubtnijfions or fuimli-
Y 1,00:1 the High I'ontiifwill let ai de.
. he republic that hurls vengeance npon
ings v.iio wear not the tiara, will aifopti
nlh 111 an cxeirpl .ry manner, the pritft
:ing of the Romans—her vengeance will
.ot be J.itisfiic! t.!l Rome itfelt is laid in
' uins. It is hi;.], t.n e ihat tins ancient city
ii:otild b hui .bled to the chift, uev ho
as t« n.poru: y or fpn irualiy tyrannized
Over the won., in a.i ages, .mo which the
trench havt* at iaft hi m, n
..in.nrs of ancient-:: t : ; h m t-prot'ec; her
—they Will i). iian p,ried to Nue and Sa
voy, that new la.no of l.berty, where tra
vtliersin a purer ; tmofpl e.e, iv.ay con
i en .plate the relics of Jt ;terstitim and def
p t]•:.■, ovtrrurncd uy our trnis in oi.e ;n.d
ihe lan.e ir.llam.
Horrid as it may fecm, a man of the
gown, a preacher of peace, at Cologne, had
ifie cruelty to propefe, upon hear iVg of the
decapitation of Lt.nis. to liave all ihe
1" fnch in that capital, feize'd ai.d facrifin <1
on the gallowr to the gholt of Louis the
1 6th— an offering th t wetlld ha\e heen
v. orthy the divinity :hcy : dore— defpotili; !
I'he propohtion met vlith'conten pt. a, d
the on.y a. vantage gained by the preacher
was tile i cpUtatiori of bi i:ig a C .0(1 r yah St.
1 he duke c 15. uni'w I. k\ is if a
moll critical ftatt ; ailho' his phj/ician
Hickman, gives him hopes that he is yet
worth a doz.n dl ad men. Many area! o
lilhcd that he had not rarhtr eniplovcd
Dr. Willi-;, the famous phyncinn of George
th? 3d, and the queen of Portugal.
I he private p:j ers cf Lotis the i6th,
found in an excavated apartment in a wail,
are lickening to human nature, when con
trailed with hi- former oaths to the nation,
and hypocritical bihavfonr on !,is trial.
Alt ho' containing an imperfect hiflory of
'is plots against the p cp!e, contrived by
liimffcif, the royal family, the emigrants,
>nd the foreign despots, there is encugh to
convince us that the lowest vilcnefs of hu
man natu e exists in kings. Almoll all
tnefe writings are veiled in the darkest
ill ide of myi.eiy; fr»c(Uent!y in rymbolic
chaiv.£le-rs—Plans of de.,th bi. nn that can
not be traced—conlpiraeies Without end,
a d none coinp e.tly projcf.ed*; and aJmeft
a.l in the king's own hand writing ; a con
vincing proof that kings are bv ha it de
.eivers, traitors, monlu-rs, art 1 murderers.
Among others of tbefe ftopri -iug papers is
, let ter Iroin Gen. Bouille, mvi. r disguise,
0 Louis i6ih, dated Mentz, ? erembsr 15,
1 ■ 91. at a time w hen 110 one inn gineil any
hi ii correspondence cot,id have exiifleel.
it ontains an account of the (uins paid by
Louts to Bouille to elt.b'ill. a camp at
Mon.medi. and is extremely, interetfling,
j>ii ti.ularly as it contain ihi names of the
■gents of the conspiracy hci> !i..ic!,ijig ; and
more so ftiil, hecanfe among there we find
everal who v.ire very cc...picuous in the
. (Fair 0+ the Thulller'e- i about
hietin e ' ney received considerable rums
deifined to fi..'.llar pnrpa t•. .i' fr.bftanc*
f Cen. Eomile's If r r ' as r .'?'evw:—
"Received from the ! ; "<r nfij-nats,
in.l ._s — Uie- ...111 ued tomonfallr tV - ' Itfhg's hrot'ier, By his order,
in caiii pr bilL of exchange, 6 o.ooo— i o
count HaniTltoii" colrmel de N n.ui ioo,oc
— o dune tie Choifeul 97,000 livres, ol'
■which he will remit 25,000 to count Ha
inilton, for which I will give him cred it —
ToM. de "vl.tndri, lieuteiia ,t colonel of tile
royal German regiment,' 40.000 — ioM. It
count tie Bufdl, colonel de Chamborani,
26,000— 1 o de la Salle, comiifli.iry a.
Metz, 6,0. o—R- m lining in my bond:'
78,000—.md ailL; ats, worth about 65,00 c
—Advances made for provisions for tile
camp at Mb.itmedl. about 12,000 —To
Hey man, Klaingler, and Dofpelite, genera,
ctficers, for their expences in leaving
France, having' lolt (.heir ail. each 54C0 li
vres, 16, 00 —To M. Heynia i to defray
liis cxpeiices to P.-uliia, 011 the fervi.e 01
the king, 3400 —To tberoy. 1 German re
giiiieht, whtfm I furnilhetl with horses to
go to ihe relief of the king, 8410 —To the
coinnialldant of the detachment of Huil'ai«,
2400 —To M. Cdquelas, a3 near as'l tan
rccolle'ft. 3600 —To leveral officers, 6000—
toil by one of my people who was taken
urifoner, 2A'oo—Total 54,400 —There re
iSiiiin i 1 my hands from 8 to 10,000 livres,
which I have partly made use of for my
expeiic'es', having no other rel'onrce, all m,
property in France being friz-. ii by the af
feinb'y- I will however remit the whole
balance to the king if he so orders in.', a
veil as fcoo* livres left at Metz, with M.
de la Salle, antl expended 011 my orders.—
Signed. t Ments,Dec. 15. 1791."
From litis Jett: r alone there i« full proo:
th t Louis C p t was concerned in a plot
ag.,..ilt the nation with the infamous Bouil
le, andiui ni.ited the means of his brothers'
fri'lii France. It is also clear, th. t
he k: p up a coi refp«ndence with the
court of Berlin. a.ld diil every thing in hi
power to perfu itle them to make war a
gaintt France, letters of a
like kind re produced, which we hive not
room to detail at prcfent; but fromoi.e o
them it appears that Louis Capet's journey
to Vareu.u? , where he was arretted, col:
the nation 6,066,800 livres, from the pub
lic tre fury.
PHILADELPHIA.
Saturday, Nlay ii.
According to the Dutch account of the
bar'l - fought between the French and
Aultri m forces on the 16th i-th and 18th
c viai cli, the particulars Hand as follow
U:i tlie i-th the French drove the Aultri
:,_.i from Tirlsm >nt. On the 18th Gen
D imourier attacked the imperial ariiiie
a' their head quarters, near Lande n , lix
m.les/rom 3t. Tron. The attack bega ;
a j A. M. and continued wiih dreadful
fl'lighter till 5 in the afternoon, when the
r,i ot th • French were broke, chiefl
by the arrival of,a frelh body of Aultri ;
c f-dry. a i l.left the Au;trian-> m i(ter> o
the Held ; the French retiring on the 197
to.Louvam, whare they collected 80,00 c
ftroug. The los; on both fides was abou
i' 3,000 me 1, and nearly equd to both par
ties. Lollvain is 1,5' miles N F,. of Bruf
l'els, where if the French Could not mak.
a Itand, it was thought that Bruflels wouid
soon be in the hands of the despotic for
ces. It does hot appear that any action
liad taken place on the 22tl of M rch, a
been reported. A body ot Prussian
and Dutch were preparing to blockad:
Breda, to prevent the French from throw
ing ia any additional fucccurs.
By a letter from the French commiffi
oner GolTuin at BruiTels. to a member o
the Natio lal Convention, dated M rch 18,
tile French are represented as f.illy faccef.
fill n .ainft the Auitrians; and that 110
thin.'that had then happened afforded tilt
leait taufe for defpondtiicy.
An account of the king'., princes, and
slates ei gigtd again!'.' t!ie republic ol
France, viz
The kiiig of Great Britain : the empref
of Ruiai, tiie emperor of Gernuiy,
of Hungary and Bohemia, the arc
(hike oi An.Brabant, &,c. &c. th
electors 0£7.1:n,z, Treves, and.Hunnver
indi. iduutly. tjie king of Spain, the kinjr
of Frulfia, th? stater general of Holland
ike. the; republic of Hamburg, the repub
Jicof Lubec, the republic of Bremen, tin.
Pr but.op of Liege, the dn ,e of Deux
Potiti, the prince of Hefie C ..lei, and the
dui-.e of Bruiifsvick Lunenberg.
A coffibmation, which for extent of do
- milfoil, wealth, and power, i.r without ex
ample in the annals of mankind.
A number of artifls and manufacturer:;
are arrived here in thelhip Glasgow, fro'ni
Greenock, and have engaged with the di
rcc.orsof t!ie national manufactory at the
tow n of Paterfon.
On the 23d of March the Lord Lieute
nant of Ireland gave his assent to an acl
lor facilitating the trade antl intercourse
between that kingdom and the Uniteo
States of America.
The Briti(h consul general for the mid
dle and foiuhern dates of America, Phinea-
Bond, Efcjj 1 ".arrived in this city fromßrif
tol : his appointment is recognized by the
Prefieent «i the United States.
The French frigate L'Ambufcade, is
now undergoing feme repairs in this port.
Accounts from various pnrts of the
J uthern and wcltern frontiers, inform of
depredations ami murders comriiitted Lv
the indians. Aletter rrom CoJ. A. Lewjs,
UutfJ April pt.i addressed to go
-ernor Lee.ol V irginia, mentions that i?
p.Hons were lately Killed on the ironiier
•■I tiiat i.ate ; Several others were kiliec
on the Kentucky road, and a coniiderable
number ot hones liolen.
Oil or about the 14th of April the French
island of i obago, 111 ttie Weft Indies, wa
aken by a Britiih expedition from haroa
does. Eightßritim iiiips of the iije under
Admiral Uaidner, werehomly expected
with a large body of troops.
Ext ast of an av.thentii lette> from riav>e de
GruCCy dated JJa ch 16.
" The French have now in actual fer
vicefix hundred thousand men, besides the
national guards of each city, under excel
lent discipline, noiwithftanding the ac
counts to the contrary you may receive
from England and Holland, which are al
1110ft in every thing v\ holly void of truth.
Holland wiil probably *e in pofleflion of
the French in three or four months."
Among the pafl'engers arrived here last
week in the flup Pigou. from London, is
the Rev. Dr. Duche, formerly Chaplain to
the Congress of the old si deration.
On the 29th of A ( >ril u't. arrived at Bof
ion a vefTel from Oporto, in Spain, Capt.
Ounli im In lat. ,8. long. 69. he was
warded by a British privateer called The
Libe ty, command- dby a Captain Mi rop
Launigan, in the time of the late war a
refugee with the British, from one of the
■ astern dates. He brought Capt Dun
nam forcibly to, fcrtitinized hi-, papers
vith an ungentleinanly rigour, plundered
ills trfiel ot candle , wine, poultry, and
Oiiier arti. les, for whieh he promised to 1
ive an equivalent, but made fail and left
hem a> soon as a biitzi Ij.rung up fuffici
.".it to carry him out offight.
Extract of a lettc from Lonior, March 2j.
•' 1 he whole British people are in the
utnioft commentation, r.ot only from the
• mazing failures which have lately taken
,>laco, but from the change of politic? which
■he people have been ge •T.-t.ty forced into
bythe terror of .li bay. net. .Vlany mvol
ved-pt' pie have absolutely hinged .hem
elves in de!pnr ; and 11 affiliation has
>een entered into by a number of persons
1 the kingdom to fici like one li if oflheir
property en feuir the other if pnfiible
One great rea on i'or the fcarcit) of I'pecie
1 England is that ten millio ■ Iterling
. ve actually been tlr wn fnim the \ i
.his banks tofuccour the patriot- ofFra ce
The people ofEngla d are lamemi.ig their
legr ded it ate, to reve ige which they will
lot ! U'.j a 1 opp •! tun ty to pass nnenibra
id. No one da. e speak hi femiments
tor fear oi t ,e militia and court iiiforn:-
ers : the printers no longer dait pi ini die
truth, and the papers have very lit tie in
hem that can 'je relied oil for truth."
It is related a-- a fa£t, that a high church:
,) rl'on in England having hired a mob
"urn Mr. Paine in effigy; after the cxhibi
"ion was over, a gentleman, merely to try
the principle of the people, hired the fame
•nob for 2/6 to burn the aforefaid parson
in effigy, dressed off in his pontifualibus, hi:
• (hrouds and tackle."
On the 7th instant, at 5 p. M. a large
nip wasfeenE. S. E. from Cape Henlo
pen on about 17 fathoms foundings. By
er built, (he appeared to be a French sri
te, and mounting from 32 to 36 guns,
c here was another vefTel in company with
ler, which had the apoearaiice of a large
p ivateer. No other particulars are yet
ometoband. Another frigate has been
een oft' Sandy Hook, said to e British.
Attachment to country (fays a corref
■o'ident) ii not easily overcome, atui
lere is no man living who doe not yield
. decided preference to that spot on t< e
lobe wiiicii happened to give !i in birth
it iiie one great reason for f'o many bend
■g their necks to slavery ,in Europe, and
• u iniitting to the talk mailer, who but so
ove ot pouni y might find a more gratefm
"il in foreign climes. But tnis 'ttach
nent oftentimes advances fiill further.
Those who by reason of their crimes, their
treasons, or their inimical conduit in ge
nersl. may have been under the necefiity
if abandoning their country, have fre
quently the unbliuhing. confidence to re
turn, even wiien certain that iihrojl uni
■. erfal contempt murt of" cdnfecjuence
stare them in the face—
"Blest seasons advance! when traitor
shall find
That they can be happy, and we can be
kind,
When rebels no longer at traitors fiia'.l
spurn
When Arnold himfelf shall in triumph re
turn."
From the Salem Gazette of April 30.
"By late accounts it appears, that the
French rrms had been attended with al
most uninterrupted success in the Nether
lands, till the. 18th of March, v hen accor
ding to the Dutch and Erglifh accounts
they mr-'t with a check, a id ifterwards with
a complete overthrow, which rescued Hoi-
land from the invasion of tii c fe new, fierce,
.nd hitherto victorious republicans-——
Should it prove true, that the Frenc
nave tor once 101 l a bauie, it is what oughi
to be expected, in the various fortunes oi
vvai ; but we ci. ijbt not, when we havt
■ ■ie,i accounts to compare wnh thule oi
tir enemies, the Jailer will appear t<
..ave been exaggerated, in propor tic: to tin
" of the event. But be this as it may
wtnle the hrenth are able to continue tin
< eat of the war in the r enemies' country
"d thereby prtfei ve to their own t!,<
"2 s of tranquility, their arms mult b.
loiiliderid as iuccef.lul. Arid li.ould the;
e\en be driven back into their own coun
1 1 y ' to the v ery plains of Champagne, rht ;
in only be v. here they lalt year beg-.i
me ihfgraceful route of the duke ot'Bru .f
V "-*<■— a 'id will doubtieis be able to do (lit
ame buhuefsover again. Men,imp!rite.I b)
.ne principles ot liberty,w ill never despair,
and when they appear to tie,driven to tilt
£i eatelt flraits, they tail forth new am
Linexpetiedrelburces, and rousing all thei.
•">eiuv, hurl defti'iiclion on ihcirloes, and
flatter them to air."
I'he following is an . xti acl of an officio!
letter iroin the French civ 1 comni fi'ar>
at Sc. Domingo to the French conlul
at Charlefto.l, S. C. daied Marci,
26 - 1 93-
" 1 h cruisers in the European seas art
in the utmolt activity : already from
-O fix hundred i-ulch and 15ritiin (hips, and
from (even to eight thoufalld teamen have
been either captured or detained in the
French po. ti,"
By letters from Virginia, it appears thai
the Indians have been particularly alert
in horse dealing, plundering &c. inft>meo<
the frontier coonties of that stale. A
r-arty of three were overtaken at d kille<
by the whites the beginning of April, mu
the property recovered.
An F.ngJifii vessel laden with rum wa
ra en bv a French frigate of the cape:
•> Chefapeke on the j-th of April. Se
veral veflels have been chafed and brought
ro near those capes.
According to the Boston papers of the
'thinftant, received here yesterday, a vef
el arrived at New bury port on the 3d o'
May in twenty li* days from Plymouth, ir
Fn gland ; the captain of which fa Id i(
iva current y reported and believed, when
be left ' :ji nd, that f en. Dumourier hid
jot polftflion of Amsterdam : and that
rom ail that he could learu, it was certain
he French had been fuccefsful. Thrc
ome accident ( apt H acket (of the abo
nentioned va (Tel) brought no papers late,
hahfhtdyjf} of March. He further in
ormcMj that the French and F.nglifi, fleet
1a- if.6ltfd. it ws fuppefed for the Weft
[nd'u ifiands : and that three Englrfh faf
India men had been captured bytheFrenc
The national conrerition ha%e decreet
hat a'l Frenchmen from the age of iS :<
3.0 years unmarried. and these within th<
"ame ages who are married, and have j>r
:Wl(tren. (hall be fubjeft to be called out tt
iifWrthro the army at the discretion of thi
?y,e< i'!'<ve council, and that 300,000 met
il.ould be railed for the army in ade'itio;
o those already in the field.
On the sth of May itfl. arrived at Peftm
3 veflel in 31 djys from England. Th<
Captain informed, th-it 110 more than fix o
even prize veflels from the French h i
been carried into London. It was ment
uned in the public Ledger t f March 2< c
"hat " Ccn. Dnmourier had sent orders tt
Oftend for all the vcffels in that port tt
quit it immediately and fail to Dunkirk."
!t was understood by the fame arrival that
■en. Valence had not been killed, but fe
verelv wounded in the late battle with th
rombined armies. The Spanilh fieet va;
"lit! to be in re: d : nefi» to f.i I from Cadiz
and to be joined fev some snips offeree from
Portugal.
A letter is received at Bollon. from Pa
is. me ltloning that madame de la Fayette,
ady of the unfortunate Marquis, was t'
mbark in a Ihort time for the United
taies of America.
Extrafl ofa letter from Plttfi urgh, AJny 4.
" Amongst the obfervaiions made b;
"•Sr. Blpiichard, at hi* hightft elevation in
is Balloon, onthe 9th of January la{V, is
hat proposed by Doctor Rtifh, viz. Tht
umber of pulfatioris in a minute—which
le aeronaut found to be eight more than
..hen on the ground. thiere—Did lie
eel 110 fever to increase the puliation ? I
nrnv. the I It duel I fought, I found a
t'ery quick putfe ; Put me up a few thou
"aild fathoms in the air, hanging to a blad
le., and I might feel the fame effect. I
ill thank the Philadelphia Printers to
j;ive thisobfervation a place in their pa
pers."
"xtraft of a letter from a gentleman in
Philadelphia to his friend \n New-"i ork,
dated May 7th.
" In my last I gave you some account of
the f niimems of the majority of that part
of the citizens of this city, with whom I
have lateiy conversed on European affairs.
Tnere are a great majority, I do allure you.
that condemn the conduct of the French,
and not so much I find on account of their
measures, as the PRINCIPLES they liave
adopted. This 1 learn to be generally the
c.ife in all the maritime tow ns 1.1 tfk Lnim.
Britim influence, 1 am happy to inforr"
you, is making rapid strides here. It will,
I trust, extend iueli to the peajecntry, in
the interior pains of" the c<m,t,y, but it
imift be the bulintf of time, ai d w ill in at
great measure depend tor fucetis uppn the
iiiduftry cxeruled on cut [art. A jew of
our influential charat.ers may <i> much.
At any rate, we ought 10 perltverc. 11cill
tne perfualion that the fw'i.ifl n uliitin e,'
(to use the language ol our old Haunch
>riend the Britifti Mr. Burke) may rti t ily
lie led to conform to our wiil.es and our
views. Let but Ihe glorious, the royal
>anfe prevail on the continent of I m ope,
■Hid then my fricr.d, I dc.ubt not wefhail
uccaf&fully chace the jilflly abhorred prin
' pies ot nionern revolutionists out of the
world. \ our joy. I am confident will be
equal to mine upon \x c ng the pr«ceed
■gs of a very respecTable r,un;ber of our
countrymen, met at Charkfio; , S. C. on
•'he 26th of April hist for the ptirpofe.of ce 1-
e';rating the anniverfarv of bT. ( f.orgk.
<>w niy heart throbbed upon. I . u« the
following toads—"The 10j..~ a. d ci a ligh
ters of ,t. George."—'• His Britannic ma
jeily"—"The que en of Great-Britain"—
The prince ot Wales ai.d royal family,"
" 1 he tars and wooden walls oi Oici Eng
land," —" Succefl to the Brit lli feet," &.c.
&c. The whole proceedings I endole to
>011, and it w ill do your he art good to read
them. When the accounu ot this bulii ess
came to hand from our old I.until' ,
at Charlelio'n, I silt, believe m . appre
henlive led the ind.gi.atio i ( thole who
yetfmarted of wounds iece.\ d in An eri
a's cause. flmild bt rinileci by the-impru
dent length to whuh our frx mi; h ve
gone ; bin I am happy to inform you. that
my fears were gronndlefs. .The influence
and llrength 01 prejudice i- truly aftoniili
ing. To remove :t totally, when deep
rooted, is abtolutely tmpi llible. '1 his iir
cuniftance (ai d no maxim is more inron
rovertible) is at this cribs fa\ curable to
royalty. To prove the extraordinary in.
Huence of v deep-rooied prejudice, a late
nltance has come under my own neitice.
It was, I think, some time in the fun mer
of 1768, that you n.jfell dined, and
pent the day, at the house of Mr. . in
London, in company with the Rev. Mr.
Duche. This gentleman and family arri
ved a lew days Imce in this city and alio
ifiiing to tell, notvvithftandingi/rc/.tf Jinri
fV. he is almoli iniivt 1 f.il!y carcf.td. R nlc
oryifiu is no longer remembered, cbii
vion's vortex has fw allowed ail up. Would
hi bel eve that it is already wh.;pc:td
hat Mr. Luche «ill in all p: obnbility be
' ..plain to Congress next IV .0.1 ? and,
et me a/k, who more fii ? T.d he not
preach to and pray for (Kb. t, t,e noi.s,
Otn mental reservation) the? number- of
he o d confederation ? '7 is true, in - 6.
to u;e the language" of France, he v a .1
Refradlory Prielt, but fiaunch to th g d
"Id caitje. he ha. done no 11 ore than A h C
nd the whole alphabet to S.—who are
ow citizens, officers, con 11 iU t.hi rs, &.c.
nf the I ..itcct S'lates. Ki.vZa I caira! ca
ra—in i ngh/h, GedfuVc g eat v.co;o c
,c;ng ! !!"
From the New -Y otk Diary.
I AM 110 lc fs affonilhedj than furprieed,
o hear that a plan has been fuggeliee . , ;:d
vas about to Ik put ic cue, ut on to < ' T
t ROM HhR MOORINc S the brig n• e
n harbour, it ;t in as a prize to the
. ■ emh frigate i'An.bi feade, and tc» iarry
:ier vfi. It does not r< quire murh lapacity
o diflover the qiiartei tioii which fucli a
'isle attempt eoud arise 5 w retc <s, who
alter having dillrefl'ed their natiie country
by every means in their powei. en, , . he
te glorious revolution ; who fiedfi, iV it,
when their boafled king could no ioiif-er
old a fuotirtgin it—who folio wed his aims
■ : the dreary am' inhospitable cliu e of
Nova Scotia, and there living, while living
was to be had; I fay, ftich wretches a"
hefe, after returning to their native conn
cry, in which they are fuffered to remain in
peace and qnietuefs, ought to be toid, that
uch conduct is not only difgraceful, but
is highly criminal. Let them beware —
there are watchful eyes placed ener'thein,
and they may be allured, that th>- patriotic
Ppirit of LXX\ lis not yet dead—it nay
nave slept for a while, and when it-is ne
uefiary to awaken it. it will rife with noble
rdor to prevent refllefs, anibitious and un
grateful beings from purfnirtg fleps, not
only contrary to the law s of nations, but
uch as would eventually tend to involve
cliis happy land of freedom in all the hor
rors of war.
A YANKLY.
May 6.
Married. O'l Tuefdny Evening
I ast, by the Rev. Mr Filnere, Mr. JA
COB WEBB F.R S, Printer, to the ami
able Miss MARGARET HENDERSON
both of this City.
PRICE OF STOCKS."
Sx Per Cenrs j 6/6
Ibrer Pfi Cents C^'s
Dejfrr|"ci. y ... " ins
Bank o( the United States 5 pr. c.ADDRESS
Srom a Citizen of the Territory South of the
Ohio, to the Inhabiatnts of th it government.
(Continued f. om our 1 nt—am! concluded)
[The drift of this ad.lrefi seems to be to
pe futile tile inhabitants to ere£t a fyHem
of iefeiice, agii lit Indi 111 andSpmilh war
s.i. c i ulepjnde.it of Pedi al tli tance ]
NOW (apart from a few political
causes at the northward, wiiich - ill
have their operation againll us, so log as
v»e wait so. ■ hi* agency of every >oiy's an I
no body's bniinefs, which is the fame
tiling) let us try if we cannot fin 1 some
d feits in our own fyllem o f frontier de
fence, or otherwise the want there if, and
enquire further whether we cannot apply
a conllitutiona' remedy, with advaniag u>,
and without offence again ' the laws of
Con refs. oi delicac. of its members
nd firll, a- to the f Cls that exill on a
fud n ilarin, I take them to be thus :
Whenever, thro' a real or pretend id ciule,
the lit In lians are difp ifed for
mifchief.ihe firlt information we receive is
generally throu h one of three channe's.
ifl The murder of our defencelefs far
ihers. 2d. Th. efcftpe of our India i tra
ders. 3d. The intimation o~ dan er from
so ne friendly Indian, who wishes to pre
vent mifchief ; and at this 11 ige we com
men e our 1 itivion into er.-or, throug'i
ivan! of fiji-m in our defence •. for the man
who fir ' takes Ihe alarm (underft nding no
particular agreement of tiie community,
touching such a contingency) runs away
to his relations as fall as poflible, and everv
neighbour catching the panic,thinks him
felf to be the only pcrfon left to ligh", and,
nitnrally enough, ge's off the fame route
as speedily as e can, till luckily for a'l,
the meeting of roads on the general retreat
the breaking o wag ;ons, the Itraying of
horses, an 1 fometi nes halting to dn'nk
whisky.puts a flop to the hu ly b rly scene,
an I brings them to a reeolledion that they
are in fu.hcient fa ce to rally. Thus they
return to explore tht ir plun Icred country,
and to buy the unfortunate scalped heads
in the fag end of the retreat, which their
precipiiate flight ha 1 occa toned ; wliiltl a
rendezvous at certain llations, to hive
been previously appointed for such contin
gency, would 11 t only have prevented the
approach of an enemy very far inferior in
Hum ers, to the effectual salvation of their
neighbours lives and their own property ;
but would lijve induced the Indi ns to re
linquish pretensions To a war fraught with
too much diffi ulty for their fuccels and
an expedition into a country at all times
too well guar led for them to penetrate,
while the whites, in perse "t ordei and well
arranged fyltem, remain firm on ftrongand
open ground well secured in their rear by
successive grades of their fellow citizens, at
all tim s ready for their reinforcement and
relief with men and prov fions.
Having thus offered a few hints with
refp fl to some general cau esof failure, I
wili endeavour to form the outlines of a
rem ■ 'y which present- itfelf to m-y imagi
nation, thedefedts whereof may iloubtlcfs
be greatly improved by others.
1 propo e to eltablilh, by association, a
fyttem of common defence and con ingent
warfare, founded on the cor.ftitutionai
rights of th people, calculated for irame
diate cont'ngencies againll infurreclion or
invasion, which on a< count of dillance or
other causes may intervene, between the
firlt rupture and the aid of the federal go
ve. n l ent, n casts where the law may be
silent, or beyond the governor's authority
to remc ly. A"d together with thefeob
fervationsas a part, 1 will firll premise as
a b fii for the foun latio . of proper arti
cl *s, a few leading and incontrovertible
princip es and maxims of government.
ill. Government is in ft it uted for the
t tlit ol social in'.ercourfe, and the fecu
r v ot social righ s ; and it cannot conlli
tutionally depart from thole objects : for
every d parture has a tenden y to annihi
late the whole compa6l between the go
vernment and society.
2 1. Alleg ance and prote6tion are reci
procal in their nature ; and :he one may ol
right be refufed when the other is with
drawn.
3f. The people have a right to beat
arms for the defence of the state.
4'h. The people have a right to affem
ble together to consult for the common
good
sth. A frequent recurrence to funda
mental principles, is absolutely necessary
' to preserve the bkffirigs of liberty.
6th. The declaration of rights i: a part
of the conllitution of the state, and ought
never to be violated on any pretence what
ever.
7til It is the constitutional duty of the
United Sates, and of their citizens, t
establish julliee ; to insure domellic tran
quility ; to promote the general welfare;
and to secure the bl (lings of liberty to
themfclves and their pollerity.
Bth. " Civil liberty is that which is de
fined to be natural liberty, so far reftraincd
by human laws (and no farther) as is ne
ttffary and expedient for the general a ■
vantag of the public.
gth. " The ri wfht of personal security
conli'ls in a person's legal an ' uninterrupt
ed enjoyme.it of his life, his limbs, his bo
dy, his health, and his reputation."
loth. " Whenever the conllitution of a
(lite in any man, or body of rafn, a
power of dellroyini, at pleasure, th- lives
or menbers of citizen , such conllitution
is in the hitched degree tyrannical ; and I
apprehend the drift of his principle re
fpeits tlie ways and means, and bears re
fvrence, like man ot er written ellablilh
ments, to the sis h pri iciple herein.
It'll The cxpence of government falls
finally on the people; and therefore, in
exigencies, where the public p ovifion ii
ina K qua- e to the ca'ls ol imm diate pro
tection. and the supplies or services art
born Jide furnifheri or performed by indi
viduals, or a part of he people voluntarily,
and app ied to that particular us —Such
claim or claims are equitable againlt the
community (though not especially autho
rised by law) an I when so rilked on f lit
and up ight mot ves, they ought o be
made good by ail of Congress, as in the
Carolin< pre edent of 1776
I2th. oelf defence is the fitft principle
in natural or social law, is the piimarv ob
j d of political co>.ltitutions, and the in
herent rights of every people.
13th. The United States have express
lv llipu'ated through the a ceptance ol
the fovereigntv offered by the cession law
that they " SHA LL proreft the TNHA
BlTANTSagai.fi ENEMIES."
On these grounds I take the liberty ol
fubmitti g to y ur coniider:;tion anc
adoption t e following or fo.ne such fornr
and matter f r a geneial affoc ation, tc
be dillributed through our refpedbve coun
tries.
" Wherefore, we the fubferibers, con
templat ng the above recited principles
an maxims, to be founded in natura
and civil rights, and regretting the remote
ness of our situation f om t e feat of that
government, which we are always ready
and willing to support in ts conlliiutiona
privilege and due adminirtrdtion of jus
tice, have thought proper to associate to
ge her, for s he common good, and t ■ bine
ou selves firmly 10 each other, for th<
common defence of our country, and fu
ure fylletn of our contingent warfare or
tilt frontiers
I We wi 1 pay all due obedienc* to
the conllitution of the United States
the laws and ordinances thereon founded,
II We wdl not in ourselves tranfgreA
on the lands, uijullly take the lives, the
property, or trespass on the lands anc
rivileges of any Indian, or other nation
adjacent to this territory, and will as much
as in our power prevent such in others.
111 We will hold society and cor
refp ndence with one committee in each
county to be composed of such of otn
members, as may be e eiled by us, fr >m
the 'efpedlive neighbourhoods, touch
ing the lafetv and proirdlion of our fron
tiers, and the lawful ways and means ol
bell obtaining or fe uring the fame, and
will <-le& one member from each commit
tee, to meet in conventi n, for the pur
poses of farther arranging the good go
vernment of this afficiation, and will de
termine, at the nixt succeeding meeting,
•n committee, of the propriety of adopting
any new rules or regulations, when a ma
ority of associating committees fcall de
cide—the return of their reports to bt
forthwith made to the chairman of fuel:
convention.
IV. Each committee and convention
{hall ellablifh theirown ruli s, and appoint
their own officers.
V. We will not interme Idle with levy
ing war, except in such cafe as where con
tingencies may leave us dellitute of im
mediate federal protedl ion ; and this only
in exigencies, making offence to defend
only.
VI. We will in each county, refpec
tive'y, arrange our places of rendezvous,
in cafe of dangerous alarm—preferring
always the frontier pod where that dial:
not be more than five miles farther from
us than the interior one—and when so
convened, will obey the eMeil officer at
such poll, or the person elected, if no of
ficer should be pit lent.
VII. When so convened, the frontier
polls shall remain on dutv, for the gene
ra! protection, while it is thought needful;
which need, in cafe of doubt, (hall be de
ciaed by a convention, as above : And il
any uch should, on this acc tint, be de
prived of m king crops they (hill be fnp
plied with a 1 neceiTaries fr m the propor
donate contributions of this affoeiation
on account from the common Hock of
the tirritory ; and have regular credits
for their services, witli a view to equita
ble demands, on a final fettlcment of he
public monies a iling out o this territory
VIII. We will aid, affill, and pro ett
osrfr.ends the Chickafaws, as f r as pof
lible, lo long as they continue such to the
Uni ed States.
IX Having now evinced our deter
mination to be obedient to the laws o(
the American Union, and to observe the
law of nations 'n al things WE do f.—
lemnly and pofitivelv declare, that we wi I
not on any account whatever, fotb ar far
tlier with Indian depredat ons, or with
the insidious arts and deceptions ra&iced
by Spanish and . ther traders, and ou.laws
againll the good people of this territory,
and the icit reds of the United State..—
And we do further declare, th 11 whene
ver any oven acts or misfeaiance (hall hap
oen and fair a'd equitable evidence there
of shall be had againll any Indian, any
trader, outlaw, or other person, we will
as so 11 as poilib'e seek fans action there
for, in such minner and form as our ref
peftive c imrni tees or general convenlion
(halldireCl And further, that as far as
t e laws permit, or as far s possible in
time of war, or whe e the Jaws and fede
ral ppjteCfion are silent, we will by every
means in our power, aid, comfort, and pro
test the poor and indullrious c tizens of
ail and every part of the Uni ed States of
America (coming to u well recommend
ed as such) in driving out the Indi ns,
fort fying themselves in all and every the
towns nd terrritories from wh ch place in
particular depreda - ; ns mav have hapoen
ed ; and in cu Mvating, occu ying, and
pofTeffing, so their own use, all and lingu
lar the lands, tenements, goods, and hat
ties, which may have t erctofore belonged
unto them the said depredatory Indians
or any of them ; to the end, thai the
countries so conquered, may become also
colonized by the United States, to their
political use and be efit ; and the incep
tion of property, and retrihu" ion, maybe
come thus eftabl.fh d in their go d and
lawful citizens, through fair and equitab e
means, relyi g on the jtiftice of the Uni
ted btates in Congress <i(Ten bled, to con
(inn such industrious adventurers in all
and fuvh rights of preoccupancy.
And to the end that this fyflem may be
come uniform, orderly, and efF cl ve, to
the great uft and political bene t of the
fa id United Stars, and their citizens,
paiticularly those in all places, remotely
situated as we a e) we recommend our
plan to theirconfiderarion, especially the
a> jicent frontiers of Virginia, ind to the
consideration of their refpedtive legifli
tures, fubjeft only to that control, which
holds the conlli utional anfhority f >r levy
ing war nn the part of the said United
States of Am rica.
In consideration and confirmation
whereof, we do pledge ourselves mutu
ally to each other, and for the support
ing of every part and parcel of this af
foeiation, we do hereunto our ref
pe&ive names.
Many other matters occur to which will
come more properly under the <'efcrip'ion
of ways and means than of fyllems ; but,
as I have al'eady been too lengthy, for a
newspaper publication 1 furmiit, what is
here to yotir deliberations ; and am a
friend to the rights of man, and of this
territory, as I trust, is ' ecoming in
A FELLOW CITIZEN
Knoxville, Ma:oh 23, 1793.
A FEW CO TIES OF THE
TRANSACTIONS
Of the Society inftiti.ted in the State of
New-York, for the promotion 0'
AGRIGULTUi'.t;. ARTS, and AUNU
FACTURKS,
May be had at this O.Tice.
[Trice half a dollah.J
Jan. {.
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.
Apr it 1793.
D. H '.Bar, j fur. TVn . IVcatber.
Tuesday, 30. C3O 35/ 4 q rt. t Fair.
*0 A f-5 F </<>.
May j. II ea.i. ► 30 4- am l ggv.
" 0 <-9 3 E. Cloudy•
11,nrjday, 2. ij 3- • 3 5/, caim.
"' 0 _2C . )c/c//dy,
i x riday ) 3. 1 oc Rain.
_____ " * c - - 63 ilnr*. do,
4. t -9. , I 60 S- Fai/-.
- ;t y? 80 sw. </<>.
Sunday, 3. , y_. K 55 . L. Cloud f
3 56 do do
Monday, 6. 03c3D " J. E. CWjl
3 3°* 35 5S j do. F<j ir.
To the Pub ic-
in the p. efent lituation of
French affairs in turope, it is to be
wished that every Irieixl to mankind
•• oulti interefl hiirifelf in feoonding the ef-
Jort 1 * 01 the defenders ol liberty, the armed
citizens and (bkliers of the French republic.
1 o advance this benevolent delicti as
much as possible, the PATRIOTIC
f RhNCH SOLI-T\ of the friends of
l.berty and equality in Philadelphia, ani
mated at all tin es by those liberal feuti
timents which la d the foundation of their
society, did at their meeting of the 30'ih
ol Apiil last, refoive to open a fubfcnpti
o 1 w.th a view to pnrchafe flour and other
provi.ions, to be oitered as a donation, and
:enc to tilt, rep. biic of France.
In coiifeqnciice of the preceding refo
lutinn, tile society have deposited in the
hands of Vie Editor of the N .tional Ga
zette, No 209 Market-street, at Mr. Bache's
printing office, Mr. Clavpooie'b printing of
fice, and at the City Tavern, a fubferipti
o i book ligned by the Pretident and Se
cretary. sealed on every Iheet with the So
ciety's seal, in which Jhill be entered.he
free gitt of every person who wilhes to
contribute for this purpose.
Trie ditiVrent prr.ters in the United
States, as friendto mankind, are reqtief
tedtoinfert the above invitation in their
pipers and to encourage the friends of
France i.i the Union, to open fubferiptions
upon 111111 iar plans in their refpethve cities
and tjwn., me proceeds of which, as soon
as filled, to be remitted into the common
Itock, in (ome central place, which llial) be
hied as soon 115 a certain number of sub
scribers ii ;ve handed in their names.
By order of the foiiety.
P- BARRIKRE. President.
A. C.OU PLAINK, Sec.
INTIMATION
RefpeEting James Fairweathcr,fomctiine in
the fourth brigade of Britijh artillery.
DaVID FAJRWE'aTHER, late seedsman
a the P balance of £dinburgh, North B; i
>.di , having c.ied in the month of November lait,
Cue arorciAiJ Ja nes Fairweatner, his only son,
succeed« to his father's heritable and personal ef
ra-e which is considerable. His relations are
anxious if he be Jive, that he lh >uld immediately
'.urn to iiutnbuign, and on applying to Mr.
William Wnvte, writer, in Charles street, Edin
u'gh, he will oe put in pollefii »n ol his faihet's
e'l.-e. The aro:el'aid James Fairweather, it is
k I --ved, was lot: at New-Y#rk, in North Ame
i.a vhen the BiitiH) arm; evacuated that city.
Ir is requeued that any person who has seen or
;;earc or mm lince, or knows of hii pref< nt refi
d«nc<», or of his dea h, will transmit any intelli
gence concerpinji him to Mr. Robeit Cam bell,
bo> klellc; in Philadelphia, --r M,. SamuilCamp-
Dell, bookseller, in New-York, Any Ih'pmifter
r other perf-n, who wi.i orirg the said Jamc»
Faiiweather to Britain, or advance him money for
'I-ia' purpose, will be rep tid bv M.fT.s. Campbell,
n T Mr. WMy re. Jt the (aid J Jmts Fa rweather be
dead, his children it he ietc any, aie entitled to the
as. re said luccdiion, on proving their propinquity.
May 4. jt
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold at the refue&ive Bouk Stores of
yojef b Cruhjbank and Ibcntas Dcbfon y and may
be had at the Printfris? office, N . 2C9, Mar
ket-Street L Pt'ne one eighth of a dollar.J
♦ LETTERS
AtldrefTed to the Yeomanry of the
United States:
Containing fume Obiervations on Funding
and Bauk Sy/lems:
By an AMERICAN FARMER.
" BLEST rapcr-credit ! best and lad supply,
That Irnds c rruption lighter wings to flv \
Gold imp'a bv th-e, can cwmpafs hardest things,
Can picket States, can fetch or carry kings j
A finr.le leaf thai* watt an army o'er,
Or /hip off Xrvates to a distant flioie j
A lea', ukc bjbils 1 , Ic.t.er to and fro,
Our latcs and fortunes, as the winds shall blow:
Pregnant with thoufar.d: flits the Jcrip urjecn.
And (ilent fells a king or buys a queen—
Oh ! that iuch buiky brii>e» as ail might fee
Sriil, as of old, encumber'a Villainy !'*
PRINT 2D BV
CHILDS and SWA IN F.
AT THEIh OFFICE No.iog, HIGH-iTRE*T»
NS/Ot Fl}' T tfc- STREET,
fHILADSLPHIAt