Bv P. FR ENEA U: (at No. 209, Market Street) PubUJked WednKUATS and Saturdays, [Three Dollars per annum.]
Nome! 99 of Vol. lI.J WEDNESDAY, October 9, 1793.
For the National Gazette.
Fello-w Citizens of Philadelphia*
VARIOUS causes being alfig*ed for the
present peflile'hce t!i-.t is carrying a-
Vay hundreds c the inhabitants of oui
city, I rake the liberty to present you with
a few that are fn.!: .i en t cau.es to diau
down the judgment of Gcd upon its, and I
have no doubt, they are, i nppu t, the cau.c
of our distress. The scripture informs us
that death is the wages of fin : our fir I t pa
rents, while in paradise, brought death in
to the world by eating of the ftfiTfielde;!
fruit. From theui we received a corrupt
nature, are under condemnation, and a, e
inclined to every evil way ; so that there it.
jio other way to be (aved but by coming to
Chriftjefus, our Lord, taking hold of his
righteousness, anil counting our ewn rig.i
leoufnefs as filthy rags in point of jullifiea
tion before God.
Ob rift's righteonihefs doth not lead to
licentiousness, as fxme people think, bu!
enlivens us to our duty in prayer, in Img
,ing, in reading the scriptures, in meditati
on,in going to charcli, nd to private meet
ings.
Now, my dear friends, I will unfold to
yon some of the causes of the prefcnt judg
ment the Lord has sent upon this city.
Ahd sirs, fitting in our markets on the
Sabbath day ; felling meat, fruits, milk &
herbs. This the Lord forbids ; aslikewilt
keeping open ou that day grocers' ihops
taverns, and tippling lioufes. Audit is to.;
cuilojnary ilfo for bakers and barbers to
perform their daily occupations on the Sab
bath. The Sabbath is made a day for
dealing, and for taking pleasure, by the
greater part of the inhabitants of this city.
Somtfof our rulers and magiilrates, infle.nl
of doing their duty, and keeping holy tin
Lord's day, are seen riding through tin
country. It would be better for them tu
be fees rrcHnr; through the city, fnppreflrng
vice, and apprehending drunkards that art
blafpheaiing the name of the ever blefled
Trinity.—The Lord has strictly enjoinetl
magistrates to do their duty in administer
ing jnflice between man and mail; like
■wife to be a terror to evil-doers, as you
may fee from Romans, chap. 13.— The
Lord commands mioifters to do their duty,
to warn the wicked of their danger ! bill
it is to be feared that there are many thai
know not their own danger, and the Lore
•w ill require the blood of the sinner at theii
hands, as you may fee from Kzekiel. chap.
13, and Bth verse. They are such as Ifaial:
speaks of in chap. 56, verse 10. They arc
blind and ignorant, dtimb dogs that cannoi
bark ; yea,'they are greedy dogs which cai:
never have enough ; and they are fliep
herds that cannot understand : they all
iook to their own way, every one for hi:
gain from his qiiarter.
The dav is approaching vhen the Su
preme Ruler will punifli sinners. In the
6th verse of the t tth Psalm, it isfaid, " Up
on the wicked he fliall reign fire and brim
flone, and an horrible tempest."—and ir
isaiah, ch. 66, v. 14, " The indignation ol
the Lord fliall be known towards his ene
mies. "—Matt. ch. 23, v. 22, "Wo untc
you hypocrites,"—v. 33, " How can yt
escape the damnation of hell?" Theft
threatenings are against all hypocrites thai
have not an interest in the righteousness o!
the Son of God, the Saviour of the world.
I will disclose to my fellow citizens some
of the heinous causes why God is fruiting
this city at this time with a deadly pesti
lence. The Scriptures inform us that there
i$ one Mediator between God and man,
the man Christ Jesus our Lord, ttfollows,
that it is finful to acknowledge more me
diators. Ciifift was once ottered up for u;
for a facrifice on the cross, and that is fut
fleieiu for us.—The Sabbath day is en
joined upon us to be kept holy ; how little
is this attended to by thousands in this city,
who consecrate that sacred day to plea
lure and the god of this world- Reading
of prayers and sermons may be anothei
cause of this dreadful viftation. What
fort of a christian is he that can't pra>
■without a book, or a minister that can't
preach without a book ? My brethren all
those are such as make a trade of the Gos
pel. They go to church with a large book
in their pockets full of human inventions,
and deceive the people with mere morali
ty. When they go into the pulpit, take
away their book from them, and you will
know what Isaiah meaneth by dumb rlo£s
that cannot bark. —Away with such form
ality as this, alike dishonourable to God
and definitive to mar. !
NeMett of family duty may be another
the vengeanw that i» ftiowered
down upon us. Family duty is though!
but little of. It is a mournful truth, that
there is not one family in a hundred in this
city that w«rfhips God according to his
word, morning and evening: nay, there
art 1 many In our city that tread the word
of Got 1 under their feet, and tell the peo
ple that Christ died not fcr theeleft on
ly bt;t for the condemned in hell & the de
vils. To these we may add others that
trust Chrilt for nothing, but confide whol
ly in their own feelings & the light within.
They don't baptize nor fiiew forth the
Lord's death till he comes to judgment,
which we are commanded to do by the Lord
of Glory. With such praaices in religion
how can we otlierwife than meet with
temporal judgments ! .They do not allow
of a Hated ministry, but all speak their
dreams and delusions. Hcing wile above
what is written, others of theiii speak a
gaiuft the doctrines of the bible ; and lay
that the doctrine of tleifion came Ironi
hell, and that they a will to do good
ofthemfelvA ; that they may be children
of God to day mid "of the devil to filbrrow.
They, in effect, calfCiirift a fays
that his people (hall never perifli.' "What
blasphemous language is this for mortals to
speak ; and yet they fay they beliete that
men atld women are inspired in this day, as.
the prophets and apoltles were before the
canort of the scriptures was fulfilled 1
Away With such errors as these! Let
us not deceive ourselves. Unless we turn
from our fin's & will-worship, God will go
Diitopunilh us with his fierce and terrible
judgments. These are some of the things
for which the Lord is visiting this city at
the prefeiit time.
Unless we repent, we fliall all likewise
perifli. Turn us O Lord, and we fhallbe
turned. The Lord dwells in Sion. May
le pardon all our traufgreflioiii, look down
.ipou his oftsnding creatures with an eye of
companion, and lave us for liis name and
mercy's fake.
My afflicted brethren of Philadelphia,
I air l Your's in Christ,
A Fellow-Citizen.
for the National Gazette.
Mr. Fretieau,
A CERTAIN popular preacher in this
'*■ oity, more rcmarkable.for his vocife
'ous than his conneitefl or eUgati) manner
preaching, in enumerating the many
leinsuslins tha.t the inhabitants of PhiTa
lelphia have lately been guilty of, roenti
jtie'd the Play houjts as one of the grcatcfl.
The manner in which he did this will cer
ainly not merit much praise, either for its
'ioerality or 'decency, The house he de
nied to bj a fink of fin and a building ap
jropriated to the Jervice of the devil, and
lie encouragers of it but little better than
ib?ttors of such iniquitousfcenes ; —At the
ame time taking care to obferve,that thole
,vho c*uld life their money in such a way,
nd none for the clergy or church —Whe-
her mammon was then uppermost in the
gentleman's thoughts, or whether he was
lank.-ririg after the loaves and fi/Les, with
rther good things of this world at that time,
ir aot, I (hall not pretend to determine,
>ut leave that matter to be fettled betweei:
limfelf and his conscience. What I
jvifli to remark On here at prefeut is, the
(liberality of such pulpit clamour.—ll
he new and elegant Theatre lately erect -
;d here, which this reverend personage
jolltcly terms a dijgrace and aborninatiot,
o the city (though with all due deference
:o his superior judgment, I conceive it tc
je the reverse) is the occasion of our pre
ent calamitous affliction, it is fomewhal
'in-prizing that the cities of Europe w hen
hey have increased so greatly, with the
numerous towns on thiscontinent in which
;hey have been ere£ted within a few years,
[hould not have experienced afimilar vifili
ation. Perhaps the gentleman does 1101
know that a number ot h's own profellior
have given their countenance to the ftag<
by their dramatic writings ; or that th<
treat Addifon, whole character (lands ft
eminently conspicuous in America and hi:
native country, (and that among clergy
men of perhaps equal goodness with him
felf)bothasa man and chriflian, through
all hfs. writings speaks highly of a well re
gulated theatre, not an inconliderable por
tion of which was expressly devoted to it;
use. Can he with any degree of propriety
amidst all his declaiming againlt its im
moral tendency, suppose that there exist:
a fmgle sentence in those two noble trage
dies"' Cato and Guftavus Vala the re-
Itorer of his country, that can have the
u»ft pernicious effect %vha;eyvr 011 :!:y
minds of on audience ? On the contrary,
do they ot abound with the nooleii: and
piirrit ft. timents of humanity, philanthro
py, virt.le and liberty?—lt is hoped he
can have no objeition to ideas of this
kind beii 3; inculcated and prefled on the
minds of the people.
I wai,') now, Sir, while lam writing on
this lubjecc, just make a remark or two 011
a numV £ of pieces that have appeared in
print within a .short time part, attacking
moll viol, iitly the theatres,their managers,
I the circt;.J &c. and the legislature for not
palling an order for {hutting them up,
when it is well known they had been so
for Come time before the motion was made
for that purpole in the hGufe of Alfembly.
TheCirtu- whs not only (hut, but the pro
prietor of :' had left the city and gone to
New-Yorl some time before this epide
mic difeal'- 1 made its appearance ; from
which we !.ad no reason to frppofe he in
tended to return in a conliderable time.
iThe Old American company (the only
Comedians then in Philadelphia) had
(hut up thek- house oil the 23d ofAuguft,
asfobn as it was generally kntfwn that an
infeftiolis dlfeafe was prevalent here, nor
has ireverfincebeenopened. Perhapsfome
may fay. this was more owing to their ex
pectation of notcollefting a fufficient num
ber to defray t.he expence'of the house than
to their virtue ; for the fake of peace let it
be so : but so long as they appear deter
mined to keep it fnut, let it be owing to
whatever caiife it may, wherein conlifts
the neceflitj of a legislative edict for that
purpose ? As to those performers who
iiave lately arrived here from Europe. I
would juft'obferve, that it might, perhaps,
be ;is well for our more virtuous brethren,
to wait for their committing the crime, or
at leali mat ifelting/ow* intention cfdoing
it, while the city remains in its present dif
trefi'ed lilu tion, before they punifti them
" ' -*•
Although I am defending what I con
ceive to be a rational amtifement, yet I
would by no means have it thought that I
with for these places to be opened in our
present diftreued lituatio I —l conceive
that both policy and religion commands
they /hould be flint for the.present. I as an
xioully wifti they may continue to be so as
any other person can do; and I have'iio
doubt but the good sense and prudence of
the managers 'will keep thern so till a more
proper season for their opening shall offer.
All r.iy delign in thii is, to detest the ab
surdity of some over zealous t-erfons, and
preserve these places for our future use.thai
may prove not only a pleasure but a bene
flt'to us.
Philatl. Oft. 3.
CONSISTENCY.
Some Financial Particulars relative to the
J}ate of VE R M ONT.
[From Mr. Lyon's Partners'* Library.']
" I HAVE been led to make some cal
culations of what the people of the (late of
Vermont annually pay into the national
treasury, and what tliey receive out of it,
which I here venture to laj» before tilt
public; —
"■ln the firft piace, I suppose this (late tc
cr ntain 90,000 sauls, which nurctier, divi
ded by 5, the number of fouls in the re
spective families when averaged, and there
appears to be iS.ooo families in the slate ;
these families on.u witb another, I fuppol't
use in their honfes, for their cattle, am
for salting their meat, three bulhels of fail
per annum each ; and suppose that fait tc
weigh 841b. each bushel, the duty paid ai
the lea ports will amount to 9,720 dollars
Nextly, I suppose that the 18 thoufam
lies, one with another, each use 4 pound
of tea in a year, (which I fear is a ver;
fmail computation) and suppose one ter.tl
to be green tea, and two thirds of it to bt
imported in American vefiels ; at this rate
the duty on the tea we drink, amounts tc
9,240 dollars.
fcextly, I suppose the iß,oco families,
one with another, each drink 4 gallons of
rum, brandy, gin, wine, or other imported
llrong liquor ; this, when we take into
tonlideration, what is drank at hatveft, a;
railings, in taverns, and in all kinds of iick
nefs, will not be thought too large a com
putation, and set the duty at 30 cents per
gallon, w luc-h is far below a medium, and
11 amounts to 21 ,Cco dollars.
Laftiy, I suppose that the 18,000 families,
one with another, piirchafe in other gro
ceries and in imported woolens, line*?,
calicoes, chintzes. libel, tradefmens' tools,
cutlery, crockery, glades,drugs and paints,
anus and ammuniiiuCj bunko, paperj &c.
[Total Numb. 203,]
the value of twelve collars and a half at
prime cost each family, and allowing theni
goods to pay 8 per cent upon their value,
which is below a medium, and the duty oil
tliefe articles will amount jo iS,ocodpl
lars ; so that the account between the Rate
of Vermont and the national treasury
Hands thus— Dollars.
Duty paid on fak - - 9i7 2 0
«n tea - - .9,240
on imported liquors - 21,600
— 011 other goods - - 18,000
Total paid ; in - jß,jc»
Out of which is received into
Vermont—by
4. Senators and Representatives to
Congress - - 4,f?00
for the salary of a diftricl judge -
for the'falary of the attorney of
the U. S. I understand - 300
"or the fees of the clerk and mar
shal, perhaps - - 4c©
7 or thefalaryof supervisor and the
infpe£tor of the revenue - 4c®
or the pay for the service of the
custom-house officer, and the
contingencies of the office,l will
guess at ... 1, co«
"or the pay of the persons employ
ed in the port office department,
over and above the avails of tlie
poflage on letters, (\ve can
ft now but little about it) I will
suppose it to amount to - sc#
heproduce of the ftilTsin this Hate
I will not compute at anything
more than enough to pay those
who look to them ; so that there
is left in Vermont - B,aco
•vhich fubftraft from - 58.50
ind there remain 50,360 dollar?, annually,
11 the national treasury, of the hard earn
ngs of the Vermonters, which go to
wards the payment of the interest of the
lational d<?bt ; the fopport of the Indian
A ar, and the civil lift falsrieSj &c. &c. &c.
— an enormous fnm to be drawn froinftich
i handful of people, in a new and but par
ially cultivated country ; is it not the by
inefs of the people to look as ter such a
um as 50,360 dollars; to fee \\ hat becomes
>f it; and to make use of the fliare of
lower they have, by their representatives to
>btain a revilion of the fyfttm that leads
>n to this bulinefs, the end of which (if not
eafonably prevented) mud be Britilh cor
iiption ar •' Britilh bankruptcy ; anil fur
her to retrench those demands, which
h aw Inch large sums of money out of the
reafnry, to lop off such of tlie taxes si
iperate molt unequally, and with them the
ifelefs salaries."
Mr. FreneAU,
THE observations in your last, on the
tfew-Bruufwick Resolves, should have
jeen preceded or followed by those
Rejohes. Our brethren of New-Jersey
lave ever been considered staunch friends
:o Republican Liberty. With such an opi
nion, I was aftonilhed to find the 9th arti
:le (more especially) published in any pa
3er of that state. Neither do I think it
ucper or becoming for any aflociation of
persons to lake upon them to judy,e
sf the cofltlhft, criminate, or condemn, the
•eprefentative of a foreign power. There
s another mode of effettiiig this purpose,
:f necefiary.in a national way. I am coin in
:ed several of these Resolutions do not
"peak the sense of the people, but of some
lefigningcharaiter s amongthem.
luclofcd are the Resolves, which' pleas?
.0 republifli.
Philadelphia Oft. 7, 1793.
Rej'olve, I. That the commercial, agri
:tiltural, and mechanical interefls of tliefe
;otinties are fully represented in this meet
ng. ,
11. That we feel oiirfelves happy under
he eXisting government of" the United
states, and as far as our observation Ix
:ends, an entire fatisfaftion with the pre
ent adminill ration prevails among all clafll s
j{ citizens in the state of Nt w-Jerfey.
111. That although vigilance with regard
o the executive departments of govern
ment be laudable and a ■virtue in republic?,
i'et, calumny and fatiion are vices, and
end to the subversion of that liberty they
irofefs to fupfort.
IV. That the proclamation of the Prefi
lent, enjoining on the citizens of the Unit
ed States a cor.dust friendly and impartial
owards the present belligerent powers of
Europe, was a mealure well timed and
jrudenr, jult and conftltutiohal, wifely
.-alculated to promote the welfare a:xl
prefervj tjie peace cf tki. co-.jntry.V. That ail exact and uniform observ
ance of existing treaties, and of the terms
of neutrality enjoined in said proclamation
is both our duty and Interest ; that we will
life all proper means to dilcourage and
bring to justice every pirfon who (ball con
travene the fame, and to preserve in its
full energy that efficiency of government
lo ueceffary to our honour, our fafety, and
our happiness.
VI. That the minister from the French
republic had a right to judge for himfelf,
whether that proclamation in any part
was contrary to the rights of France by
treaty, or not,; that if lie thought it was.
lie ought to have applied by memorial to
the Secretary of State, and if the answer
given was not fatisfa&ory, he had a right
to fend it to his condiments, and receive
iheir direftiuus for his future conduct.
VII. But for any minister to threaten
or attempt an appeal from the conflituted
authority of this country, to the people at
large, is an ast of the highest insolence and
injustice, and an iufult, n»t only to the
Executive authority, through which the
Union (peaks to him, but to the whole pco
.pie of the United States.
VIII. That we fully expect, and rely
for it, on the wisdom and fortitude of the
Executive of the United States, that such
conduct will at all times meet with the
treatment which it deserves.
IX. That in the present predicament o!
the United States, 110 citizen, under the
pretended right of expatriating himfelf al
pleasure, can legally enter on board an>
veflel of war with intention to commit bof
ti ities agai-nft any power in amity with us:
beciufe, as no law exists acknowledging
the right, and prescribing the forms of ex
patriation,the offended power has 110 mean;
of difcriminatiug the expatriated from the
real citizen, and the whole community i:
liable to be involved for the crime of one.
The laws of nature and nations, therefore,
and the principles of society annul fucli
pretended rights, and criminate such ac
tions in the existing circumllances of ths
United States.
X. That we sincerely pray for the fuc
cels of the cause ol liberty in France, and
in all nations, freed from the evils of licen
cioufnefs ; but, as it is not in our power tc
render her effectual aid, by embarking with
her in theprefent war, and we are are'nol
■required thereto by any treaty, the ftriftell
neutrality is out vvifelt and molt honorable
condu£t. »•
XI. That Elilha Lawrence, Esq. Vice-
Prelident of this Hate, is entitled to out
acknowledgments for his early attentioi
to-the proclamation of the Prelidtntof the
United States.
XII. That these resolves be publilhed ii)
the public papers.
JOHN BAYARD, Chairman.
RICHARD STOCKTON,Sec'ry.
From the Alexandria (Virginia) Gazette,
of October 2.
IT is necessary, in the present 'crisis,
that a public avowal of political sentiments
Ihould be made by the friends of liberty,
who would wi(h to preserve internal tran
quility. The ariftocratical fa£tion in Ame
rica are indefatigable in disseminating their
iniquitous sentiments ; while the surviving
tories, who opposed the general will in our
Itruggle for liberty, affeit to trumpet forth
the praises of the illuftriaus Washing
ton ; and availing themselves of the ma
levolent charge darkly exhibited again!)
the Citizen Representative of the French
nation, endeavor to insinuate that an at
tachment to thefacred cause of liberty, in
'which that enlightened people are engaged,
is inconsistent with the pure affection which
the American whig? have uniformly borne
towards the Prelident. The adulator)
praises which have issued from the aspiring
faction, in their addrelfes, have a manifeil
tendency to sow the feeds of discord be
tween France and America. To llrengthen
the hands of government was not the pri
mary otijeft of the addreflers ; and it is
evident that these pretended lovers of peace
and harmony would not oppose measure:
tending to excite the jealousy of the French
people. War with France would be ac
ceptable to them. Weak, however, is the
foundation upon which their hopes are
grounded. Can they suppose that the
minds of Americans are so uninformed, as
not to discover the radical delign of the
officious propagators of the calumny againfl
Citizen Genet ? Their object was tc.
harrafsthe public mind, between aB un
shaken attachment to the Prelident on tjie
one hand, and a sympathetic regard to the
jnterefts of France, and refpedt to her re
presentative in America, en the other, by
inlinuating that tbefe are irreconcileable,
subsequent to the alledged misunderstand
ing between the reprefentativet of the lif
ter nations. The union however cannot
be thus dissolved. The dark delign is de
veloped. The cloven foot appears. The
sowers of discord among brethren are
discovered. The deep laid scheme fails
of accomplidiing its purpose, and the base
projettors hide themselves in clarknefs. A
dark speech, capable however of the purelt
confti uction, is laid as the foundation of a
dark design It is darkly obtruded upon
the public, as spoken upon a dark occ3fion;
at an unknown period, probably in a dark
night, but to whom, remains full in the
dark.
Rufus, if Kings, myflerious, hide
Their dark designs from open day,
Twill better suit thy royal pride,
To join an Owl, inltead ot Jay.-
The proceedings in the<"ourt-Jloufe,on
Saturday evening lalt, are a convincing
proof of the general sentiments of the ci
rizens of Alexandria and its neighbour
hood. At a numerous meeting, publicly
convened, every attempt to criminate the
conduit of the French minister was treated
with contempt by the alinoft unanimous
voice of the ali'embly. The minds of the
people are irradiating, and the public opi
nion will soon be discoverable from the»>«-
partiaL declarations of many. Let govern
inent regulate its conduit by the open and
voluntary declarations of republicans ir
general.
The tories of theday, who affefl to ve
nerate the olive branch of pcace, endcavoi
to reprefeut America as in a ltate ot pueri
lity and weakness, and theretorg incapable
of efpouling the cause of France. But wliile
the fupportersof the Constitution, with gra
titude acknowledge and ad ; e that divine
Providence, thro' uhofe interpotition iheii
form of government was ellablifhed, ir
oppolition to a haughty nation in her me
ridional glory, they will not forget the
nation who was iiiftrumental in accom
pli(hingthe grand event. Since this glo
rious epoch, has America enervated ? Has
the addition of a million of citizens, and
the a-quilition of abundant wealth, enfee
bled the United States ? Hath the increase
of her commerce, the rapid diminution ol
her debt, and her growing credit in the
w'orld, debilitated her arm ? Will tht
present (late of Britiin afford an argumenl
■ i favor of the alfertisn ? Groaning be
neath her enormous debt; engaged in ar
expentive war ; and torn by intestine di
vitien, (he falls from-her pinnacle of glory
and loles her consequence in the scale ol
nations. One act of America, the'mari
for her manutaitures, woul 1 complete liei
political career. A non-importation ail
of Britilh commodities, r. 11 the (hall ceaft
to persecute our injured ally, would be
more severely felt in England., than the
deftruition of half her navy.—This mighl
be done in perleft unison with the fenti
tiinents ot the pretended friends of peace
and neutrality, even without drawing the
['word, or linking a blow. America wouk
loon reap the advantage, though a tempo
rary inconvenience might enlue. France
would experience its salutary effects. The
balance of trade in favour of our coantr;
would rapidly encreafe. UfefuJ.ii) inuf ic
tories wauld be eltabiiflied. And Wiiile
the tyrants of the ealt are desolating the
fertile plains of" Europe, America, happ)
in the enjoyment of liberty and prosperity
will furniih the European markets wits
the produce of her foil.
A Fkjeno to the People.
October i, 1793.
Foreign Intelligence.
LONDON, August 2.
Of all the diseases that afflict the humai
race, is not insanity the molt universal :
4nd is it not more evidently the disease ol
lations than «f individuals ?
What is Rliflia ? A vast empire : so it i.
.ailed ; or an attempt to govern, by the
nfiuence of one individual mind, hordes ol
gnorant wretches, scattered over immenl'e
in cultivated countries, living in (loth and
.vretchednefs, and litrle superior to the
:attie they herd, or the bears they hunt.
What does this empire want ? Population,
ndullry, and knowledge. What does it
eek .' Increase of territory, «f which it
las a hundred fold too much. And how ?
By facrificing the lives and labour of thole
men, the preservation of whom only could
render it ilourifhing and powerful.
Prullia, though not barren of inhabi
tants to the fame excess, strongly partakes
of the fame vices. Internal improvements
alone could render it prosperous and the
efforts not of ons man, but of every think
ing man within its limits, ought to be di
rected to this single objeit. In what is it
employed ? In foreign conquett, in going
to war to take a city this year, which next,
perhaps, it will go to war to keep.
What are the true interests of Germa
ny ? What but to reform innumerable a
buses, and detect the incessant atyurdities
that oppress its whole fyttem, economical,
political, and moral ? But for this it has
not time ! It mult march to play at sol
diers, and beliege certain parcels of earth,
brick and (tone ; after which it will march
again to accomplifli another fin ilar feat.
The title flowing with it, for a time, it
will proceed ; but the ebb will come, and
then its remains will march back again.
Of the frenzy of England, let thofegive
an accurate description who can 1 Happy
in the industry and intelligence of its inha
bitants, placed beyond the reach of conti
nental broils, having 110 chance or pofiibi
lity of benefit from war, with a certainty
thai its trade mull be destroyed, its mer
chants ruined, and its manufacturers cut
1 off by famine or the sword, if once this de
solating sword were drawn, without a (in
gle motive for its conduit, except what
can be found in the wild reveries ot the
Alarmiils, to war it goe# ! the mifchicfs
that were foretold nffault it on ever* fide,
and in every form; they daily become
more conspicuous and more dreadful ; and
yet at war it continues 1
"' I"is a mad world my matters !"
The people of Poland mull certainly he
great unbelievers, or they would never be
dilfatisfied with the partition of ;!'eir king
dom, since they have the aflnrances ol
two powerful princes, that the subjecting
them to foreign powers, is only to prefervt
their freedom aifcd happiness !
Atigujl 12. From undoubted authority
we learn, that Cultine was sentenced or
the 6th, and was guillotined. It is said thai
(uch was the fury of the mob against him,
exasperated at the recent lodes they hac
met with, and which they imputed to hi:
treachery and inattention, that they feizec
liis tody, and cut it in five pieces.
THE CONVENTION,
Daily occupied by the multiplicity of bu
linefs, continue firm to their polts, and du
ties, notwithstanding the difficulties whicl
surround thein, nor is the least defpairol
lie republic to be seen.
The convention has decreed, the ar
reftuf all foreigners, natives of any of the
belligerent powers, now in France, whx
lave not taken up their fettled relidenct
for three years: And an appeal to all thf
he world, on the plots made to deltro;
:he liberties of the French people.
They have also decreed, the eftablifii
ment ol another camp behind the grant
:amp in French Flanders,to cunfift of thre«
lundred thousand men; ond have declar
ed all France to be in a Hate of iiege.
By French papers of the ad. lUlt. rcceiv
»d in town on Saturday, it appears, thai
3ii the firlt instant, upon Barrere's an
nouncing to the Convention the taking oi
Valenciennes by the allied army, it wai
decreed, among other thing:, that the
queen Aiould be immediately tried befort
:he revolutionary tribunal 1 and in confe
rence of this decree, (lie was removec
on the following day from the temple tc
the Conciergerie.
It was likewise determined, that the
monuments of all the French fliould
ae dellroyed.
By another channel we learn, that fooii
jfter the intelligence reached Paris of tht
-.aking of Valenciennes, Cufiine was be
leaded.
A decree was passed, banifiiing all the
Bourbons from France, the young king
and his filler excepted.
It tvas likewise decreed, that all the fo
reigners of those nations at war with
France, (hould be arretted, with the ex
ception only of those who had been three
years in the country.
From the preparations that were mak
ing, and the disposition evinced by the peo
ple of Paris, tkeieis every reason to be
ieve, that Saturday last, the ioth, was a
lay, the tranfailions of which in that ca.
jital, will make humanity fliudder at theit
recital.
The next port will, in all probability,
aring us an account of the execution of the
queen of France, and the imprisoned
members of the Convention.—While Eu
rope will drap a sincere and refpe&ful tear
aver her tomb, the fate of thole who (hall
bave been the cause ofher death, the Brif
lots and Condorcets of F'rance, will be
ronfidered as thejuft retribution of their
:rimes.
When madame La Corde was led te
execution in Paris, flie fmiltd attheguil
otine, deliberately cut off u quantity ol
ler hair, and intreated that it might be
eat to her father at Caen. She ti>eri told
:he executioner, with a cheerful couiite
lance, that (lie wai ready, and defircd him
;o remember that (lie died a pure repub
ican.
Hamburgh, July j6, Oil the ioth instant,
Vlr. John Par is presented to the Senfcte ol
:his city his credentials, asConfulfrom the
United States of America, atuf was receiv
ed in that quality. As the laws of Ameri
;a exclude foreigners from that office, by
entrulting thisgentleman with it, they have
;iven him a very particular mark of their
confidence,
Leghorn, July 17. Ou the 10th inflant, a
Danilh (hip arrived here from Toulon.
The captain mentions that he left in the
road of Toulon, 16 (hips of the line and 8
frigates, all w eil armed and ready to set
ail ; and that a great many more were
Stting out.
We have no accounts here of the Englith
Tquadron, which was expeclcd a great
while ago in the Mediterranean : the Spa
nifii squadron, on the contrary, has left oft
cruifnbg in that sea, and has returned to
the port of Carthagena.
Paris, July 28. The Convention have
passed a decree, whereby monopoly is de
clared a capital offence—Thofe who make
falfe declarations oftheir provisions or mer
chandize, who fuffer proviiions or mer
chandize ot the lirit ne'.effity, such as bread,
wine, fruits, coals, oil, iron, cloth, &c. to
spoil in their magazines, are to futfer tht
pain of death, and every citizen who in
forms againlt such offenders, is to be allow
ed one third of the merchandize, as a re
ward ; tne second third is to be dillributed
among the poor, and the third to be confif
cated for tlie benefit of the Kepublic.'—
The Convention adopted the whole pri jeit
of the above decree, without difcuflion.
Dublin, July 16. A bill is before thepar
liament, which if it palTei) will destroy all
hopes of a parliamentary reform. The
purport of th« bill is this. : " If any com
mittee, conventioH, or delegation of ?
people shall meet for fnoh purpose, the ma
gistrates are enabled and commanded by
the bill, to difperle them by force of arms.
The freeholder who votes at the election
oi any such delegate, is fubjefled to the
penalties of a mifdetneanour. By this bill
therefore, there is imposed on the people,
a silence on public queftioiis as drift as that
which exists at Conltantinople.
The high price of infnrance has greatly
enhanced the value of every article of im
portation, at the fame timo that it has
damped the ardour of trade. The conse
quences are, that the public pay twice as
much for the fame commodity, and the
merchant tranfafts not one fifth of his usual
business. At the the Custom house, in the
metropolis, and in the offices of collectors
throughout, the receipts continue to be
barely fufficient to defray neceifary d:ft.urfe
ments withont affording an overplus of a
lixpence to the Treasury.
PHILADELPHIA.
Wednesday, Ottober 9.
Exlratt of a letter from B oft 011 Sep. 29. '93.
'• 1 am happy to inform you that Doiior
Robert, an eminent phyfitian of the acade
my of Montvilte & fellow of that of Paris,
arrived a lew days ago at this place from
Macao, in China ; brought here by a fuc
cefliou of unfortunate circumltances atten
dant upon the war.
" On the firft news of the dreadful epi
demical fever which rages in Philadelphia,
he determined to go immediately to that
unhappy city. He devotes himfelf to the
service of the poor, gratis—They are A
mericans ; they, are the brethren of the
French patriots.
" He has torn himfelf from the embrac
es of his dearest friend* whom he bad not
feenfor 14 years, a*d whom he unexpect
edly met here—to fly instantly where hu
manity calls him—and where brotherly re
gard makes it his duty to go. M.-.y his
"having thus devoted himfelf.be a confirma
tion of the lince.e attachment of the
French patriots, to the truly republican
Americans I"
The Consul at Botlon.
" Since England, jealous of the growing
greatness of America, and the vail com
merce (lie carries on, has maliciously rcr
folvej on ruining our trade with France,
by taking all the velVels going thither la
den with any kind oi' provilions from this
country ; and as we are unable to prote£t
ourselves from the ravages of this haughty
tyrant, havin* no force at lea, would it
not be advisable for the Frcnch consul to
give public information to our merchants,
of the period at which the two {hips of
war, mentioned in the Diary of yeiterday,
are to depart ; they would surely convoy
whatever number of our merchantmen
might be dellined for any of the ports in
France, and prffteft them from the insults
they so daily meet with. Such a measure,
while it would be ferving-our merchants,
would be no less beneficial to our allies."
[;V. York D'ary]
" It is but a few days fincc, that a poor
fellow travelling to Lancaster, and enfeeb
led by sickness or want, being as is (uppoftd
lately from Ireland, was refufed all com
fort or shelter by the inhuman inhabitants,
until oppieii'ed with his calamity, and
(hocked by the brutality of Ins fellow men,
he funk down and died by a fence, a few
paces beyond the tavern, 011 this fide of
Mill Creek, where he could not obtain
admittance."
On the 17th ult. the Indian chief, Corn
planter's nephew, with two other Indians,
arrived at fort Franklin, from the treaty.
A council was called on the occasion, and
Cornplanter's nephew made a speech, in
forming of the failure of the treaty : " th at
nearly all the Shaw anefe warriors had gone
to attack the army of the United Slates—
that the Pottowattamies and the fix nations
have all put their hands together to be oil
the fide of the United States ; the Shawa
nefe, Wyandots, Delawares & Tawathta
vias, are determined to be at war as long
as they have a man left : their warriors
were willing to make peace, upon the U»
nited States giving up all their lands on the
weflern fide of the O'lio and Alleghany,
from four miles from the river; which wai
not agreed to :—He gave his opinion thaC
these nations, would have agreed to a
peace, had it not been for M'Kee, who told
them they would be ruined if they made
peace, (liort of their own terms—and that
he would Juppty them with any thing they
Wan ted,being authorized tofurnifli them with
whatever they Jhouid afl< f or, except men.''''
" The number of burials in this city for
the two months part is considerable, but
probably not above four or five times more
than usual during the generality of autum
nal seasons. The real truth is, that a gene
ral, but very diverfified sickness prevails
among all ages and confutations ; a proof
of which is, the uncommon mortality a
mong children, bearing a considerable pro
portion to the whole." Very few are at
prcfent aftefted with the yellow fever,perhaps not more than tine or two out cf
ten. " The contagion itlelf, where it ex
ilts, is 110 c very powerful, because To many
liave' furviJed their domefric relatives,
whom they attended thro' the whole tlif
eafe ; and because molt of those physicians
who have been conflantly with the iick, are
still in a good state of health"—Hence it
cannot be a plague, as some blockheads at
a distance have ignorantly or maliciously
reported. The disorder has no doubt been
greatly aggravated by thefeaion. We have
liad no wet weather for two months, no
frofts, and scarcely any dews ; on the con
trary, a scorching fun, blazing every day
with a malignant hiat thro' a cloudless at
mosphere, for such a length bf time, and
a total failure of the tifual concussion ol
an equinoxial gale, could not but have hac
a coniiderable efTe£t in vitiating, in some
1 rfppree, the common medium of respira
tion.
ihe w»men of Toulon (faysaLondoi
Paper) lately declared thei selves in a state
of infurre&iori, aflembled in crowds, ant
threatened to hang the magistrates if the)
did not lower the price of sugar. The pro
curator Syndic at firlt laughed at theii
threats, but when he saw the riet become
feriou;, he aflembled the council general ol
the commons—who ordered the fire en
gines, with a plentiful supply of '.vatei
mixed with foot to be drawn out in battle
array, and by a vigorous discharge from thi:
smutty artillery,the infurgents,in petticoats
were completely routed and difperled,
without the coufolatiou of ail honourable
wound.
Extract of a letter from New-York, Oc
tober i.
" No person from Philadelphia is allow
ed to come into this city, unless he can
prove, or (if a person of repute) will swear,
that he has been absent fourteen days from
the town. This precaution is ftriftly en
forced, and yet notwithffanding that and
all the vigilance of the inhabitants patroling
the wharves every night, many from Phi
ladelphia get irl ; however, we hear of
110 person here having taken the infection,"
Dr. Rufli, in a letter to Dr. Rodgers, of
New-York, dated Oft. 3, aflerts that he
has fatisfaftory documents in his poflelfion
to prove, that the disorder which has pre
vailed with so much mortality here for lix
weeks past, was generated in Philadelphia.
The Doctor observes that it is mult mortal
between the ages of fourteen and twenty
five ; tho' it attacks all ages ; and even
young children are not exempt from it. A
recovery or death generally happens, in
acute cases, on the 3d, sth, or 7th days.
His principal reliance for cure are the mer
curial medicine, purging and bleeding;
cold air, cool drink.&c.and total abstinence
from animal food, till the patient is fit to
walk about.
[From a Correjpondent.]
" A gentleman from New-York itlforrfls
me, that Mr. Andrew G. Fraunces has
published a pamphlet, entitled "AN AP
PEAL to the Legiliature of the United
States, on the condu£t of the Secretary of
the Treasury, refpe£ting a demand of pay
ment of some Treasurer's warrants ;—with
a Literary Correspondence that took place
between those two gentlemen, 011 that
subject."
It being believed by some, that a gentle
man who lodged at the city-tavern in
New-York, was in pofleflion of the origi
nal papers, whereon that calumniating
pamphlet was founded ; hence arose a re
port, that this gentleman had fold a trcitt of
land that beltnged to a prior claimant. In
consequence of which report, the Mayor
went in person to the city-tavern, with the
fheriffs and constables of the pity, to ap
prehend the gentleman, and take pofleflion
of his papers —but, from some unfortunate
delay, the gentleman had previously let out
for the neighbourhood of Philadelphia,
that being his place of abode ; and my in
formant farther faith, that several gentle
men in New-York are determined to pur
sue him as soon as the yelhw fever abztes."
y I am'ndebted to Dr. Sydenham (fays
Dr. Ru/h, in a letter to a friend in New-
York) as well as t<i my own observations,
for the decided manner in which I have
reje£ted the idea of a common remittent in
our city. I have been told, that by propa
gating this opinion, I terrify my patients.
Perhaps I do, but I favc them by their
fears; for I excite in them at once, a
(speedy application for help, and a faithful
obedience to all my prescriptions. Univer
sal truth is universal interest, and falfe
hood and misery go hand in hand. The
opinion which has been published by some
of our physicians, that we have now a mild
and a malignant fever in our city, has led
all those people, in whom the fever has
come on in an inlidiotis form, to neglect
themselves for several days, under the idea,
that they had nothing but a fall fever, and
from this deception, 1 believe hundreds
have perished by the disorder."
A confulerable number of vefielsare ar
rived, since our lalt, in the Delaware,
chieily from the Weft-Iririies. They all
are moored below Fort Mifflin. Numer
ours fine veflelsare alongside our wharves,
bur, from the interruption uecaiioned bj
the death's, orrem<s»af?, of the merchants,
there is none to unload or discharge them.
By capt. Betterton, from New-Orleans,
we are informed, that (everal American
vessels, belonging to this port, are on shore
in the Miflilippi—Captains Towers and
Mc'Clenachan are among the number.
Out of four Duily papers, heretofore
pub! flied in this city, at prefeat there is
only one—two of the weekly papers have'
also been difcontinned on the l'ame ac
count, viz. the prevailing sickness.
It is remarkable that no rain has fallen
in Philadelphia, for two months pall. This
circumstance, it is thought, has greatly
prolonged the contagious, and other levers,
prevailing among us.
We hear from the city of Walhington, 1
that the south-east corner (lone of the capi
tal of the United States was ceremoniously
depolited on the tßth ult. and that the per
formance was attended with a Masonic so
lemnity and military parade, fnrpalling a
ny thing of the kind that has been hereto
fore exhibited.—The presence of W ASH
iNstoN, gave magnificence to the scene
and brilliancy to the performances, which
were concluded with convivial entertain
tainment, and much to the fatisfaction of
all to whom the riling importance of this
happy country affords a |>leafing contem
plation. |~ .V. Yori paper. J
A writer, of the medical faculty, in a
New York paper, observes that contagious
Severs of the kind now prevalent in Phila
delphia, after having apparently become
extinct, will for fevers! years after, parti
cularly at autumnal seasons, light up, and
Frequently exist in their own real form,
and prove fatal in their own deadly fn.?pe
to some of the inhabitants, without spread
ing or becoming general. The yellow,
putrid fevers do aUb for a long time really
affect and so far influence the common en
rlemical fevers of a country and climate,
is to change them in some degree, to their
Iw n likeness. After these fevei s have once
raged in any city or place, it is observable
:hut piurilies, peripneumonies, dysenteries,
ntermitting and remitting fevers &c. he
roine more dangerous, complicated, irre
gular, and extremely difficult to cure.
Extras cf a letter from Liverpool, Aug. j.
44 The French, though contrary to the
reaty of both alliance and commerce, cap
ure all American vefleh going to any ports
>ut their <,vVn, except those laden with
wb -icco, with some scenes of cruel batba
ity. One ship belonging to New-England,
ivas taken by a French privateer. , The
mate was wantonly fliot through the head
ay the prize marten The vefl'el was car
ried to St. Mrjo's ind is still detained ;
with many other such circumstances—And
lhall the Americans submit to such unac
countable conduct, who have so ftriflly
adhered to their treaties with that coun
try, whose conduct has caused all the pow
ers of Europe to declare against her ? Had
they adhered to their engagements with
us, I should be sorry if the Americans had
made tliemfelves guilty of ingratitude, or
a breach of their engagements, in the final!
eft degree; but now X am in hopes they
wiil have courage to resent an infuk of
!uch a nature. You wil! pleafeto observe,
I do riot wish the Americans should declare
against France ; but lam iu hopes they
will immediately order every privateeer
and republican ship out of their ports, and
riot act any longer with partiality for a, na
tion that has been capable of breaking all
treaties, not only with America, but eveny
o>ther nation, and pays no refpeel to friend
nor foe."
Extracl tf a letter from Virginia, Sept. 27.
" The assembly of this state have, in
their wifdom,feen proper,to exempt a part
us the citizens from bearing arms, whose
coufcientiotis principles are oppoftd to it.
A determination is now gone forth, that an
appeal be made to the next assembly for a
repeal of that clause in the act, as too much
favouring Quakers and other non-fighters,
and if the repeal is obtained , no doubt the
matter will be properly clinched, before
another war is brought to our doors.—lt
is a comfortable reflection, in favour of thc-
Quakers, that a catholic temper is fact
chffuling itfelf amcng all sects and parties,
enlightened candour, and liberal toleration
prevailing, and worthy chara£ters deliver
ing their different opinions with less ran
cour and better inan>v?rs than formerly;
consequently it is hoped the Quakers, and
other non-fighters tiave Jess to fear. In
tolerant characters of the present &zy,
would 110 doubt be glad ts revive an old
law of this state, which as it may aflift
them in forming a new one for a similar
purpose,! here tranferibe and fend you for
insertion.
" That provided the Quakers, or any o
ther fe£t or denomination of people what
ever in this province, will not bear arms
neither by authority nor its officers, nor
any other compulsory measures, it (hall be
lawful for any military officer, non com
milliuned officers or privates, or anyjuliice
of the peace, town or city bailiff or con
stable, to do, aid or a<jilf in placing such
offenders on liorfeback, bind them and fend
them forthwith to the field of battle, there
to be placed in the 1110 ft dangerous positi
on, to screen from the fliot the more valu
able part of the community.
" Aud provided also that if thsy flisukl
live to return to their families and frielldi
unlinrt, and be permitted to enjoy their
poflefiions in peace, it lhall be on the fol
lowing conditions, namely: That they
peiTonally, their estates, their heirs and af
ligns for ever, (hall pay unto the tax gather
ers for tbe ti'me being,or be distrained from.
Inch full and fufficient part of the expenc
es accrued to their country, while lighting
for their peaceable residence therein, and
the natural enjoyments of its blessings."
Near rob fail of refl'els are now riding at
anchor in the Delaware bound to this port,
but, on account of the prevailing epidemic
are not permitted to conie lip to unload—
Mod cf the fall vefl'els from Europe are
among them.
Norfolk, Sept. 28. The citizens of the
town of PorUmouth are reqnelled to meet
on Saturday the sth of next month, in or
der to take into conlideration the present
political slate of their country, and to ex
press rhcir sentiments thereupon.—When
it is confidercd that attcmptshave been and
are now making to fpeakthe sentiments oi
America in language so repugnant to prin
ciples of republicanism, and so foreign frorr
the opinions and wishes of all real Ameri
cans, and friends to France and her liber
ties, it is h .ped the citizens will generally
attend. The citizens iff Portfmouthinviu
their fellow-citizens of the county tojein
them on the occasion. The meeting will
be at the market-house, at n o'clock in
the morning.
We learn by the arrival of the fliip
Blandfibrd from London, which place (lie
left on the 3d of Augult.—That the Grand
Seignior has at length been able to intro
duce the modern military manoeuvres into
the Tui kill) army, and it is now praftifed
by a body of no less than one hundred and
lifty thousand. What may appear very
lurprifing, is, that the Mufslemen, who are
perhaps the greatelt slaves in the Univcrfe,
have actually infilled that they lhall never
be treated as the German soldiery—the sti
pulation was complied with.
Extract of a letter from Lancaster, dated
3d October.
" Our farmers hare this day begun to
open fubferipjions in several townships, a?d
addresses have been sent to others ; so that
1 hope the whole country will enter into
the spirit of contributing generously to
wards the relief of the poor and diftrefled
families of the city, whose situations mud
tie deplorable indeed. This account, if
made known, will, I make no doubt be
agreeable to our fellow-citizens. The
contribution is intended to be all in flour."
The late Dr. Robertfon, hilloricgrapher
to the king, made some time since a pro
mise to his majesty that he would write the
liiflory of England lince the Revolution of
1688 to the present reign ; and for some
rcafon, for which it is not easy to account,
made a condition that the workfliould not
be publi sd, but remain fealed,till after
bis death. This hiflory his executors are
Preparing to give to the world, as well as
:en sermons by the fame celebrated writer.
[London Papef.
The Citizens of Elkton have at their
iwn private expence, fixed tents, and built
nits on an eminence, called Grey's hill,
near the Newcastle county line, for tile
■eception of such travellers as may be in
cited, and appointed a committee, with
:wo eminent physicians, Drs. Mitchell and
Wallace, and suitable nurses to attend
:hem. Bedding, provisions, &c. &c. are
ilfo provided for their support and recove
-y.—Such liberal philanthropy entitles those
benevolent gentlemen to the thanks of the
ritizens of Philadelphia, and of mankind
generally.
Mr. Broome, chairman of the commit
:ee of health in New-York has written to
lie Mayor of this (!ity, offering such aid as
s in their power to afford to the poor and
li(irelied of this city, in the name of the
:itizens of N. York. The Mayor of Phi
adelphia has returned his answer, inform
ng the N. York committee, that all imme
liate neceflaries are supplied in abundance;
ind that the means of obtaining them have
irifen from the engagements of a few in
lividualsto the Bank of North-America,
iv liofe liberality is, as yet, commensurate
.vith the wants of the poorer fart of the
:ommunity.
•' Hung be the heavens with blr.ck, yield
day to aig',.r:
QdoVrr*;, importing change of times and
States,
Brandifli your chryflal trefles in the fi<y.
And with them scourge the bad revolting
liars
That have consented unto so much
death I— l
All things that we ordained feflivai
Turn from their office to black funeral;
Our inftrtiments to melancholy bells,
Our wedding cheer to a fad funeral feaft,
Ourinerrv fotigs to solemn dirges change;
Our bridal flowers serve for a buried
corpse,
And all thing change them to the con
trary!"
Shakejpeare.
Extract of a letter from New-York, dated
July 21.
" 111 my letter to you of the 26th ult.
I eoHijjmniiated my ogijiiau us addrtfiinj
tlie President on the fufeject of your niif<—
tary rervic.es—wluub ua, mice been adopt™
ed; and the non-commiflioned officers and
privates have proposed an address on that
fubjeifr. The President at the opening the
lalt feflion pointedly took notice of redeem
ing the public debt, as a right reserved la
the government—this plan being previously
adopted, the President, Viee-Prefident,
Chief Justice, Secretary of State, Attor
ney-General, and the Secretary of the
Treasury, have purchased 1,131,364 doll.
76 cents in certificates, which colt 693,000
doll. 38 cents in specie—whereby a saving
was made to government of 438,364 doll.
36 cents, agreeably to the army confutation
act.
However, I hope you will address the
President in the molt refpettful niannar,
come of it what will.''
Died, on the 29th ult. Samuel
Esq. Speaker of the senate ot this com
monwealth—Mr. Chafe, a young gentle
man from Baltimore—arid on Monday
evening, Jonathan lyickinfon Sergeani„
Esq. a citizen univerfaily lamended.
[Fr»m London Papers-']
Answer to an illiberal person, who uttered
much virulent abuse against the political
and moral character of Marat.
" I think you molt damnably use poor
Marat,
Sans mercy, you fend him to hell ;
Buthow(let meafk)can a (launch democrat
With anti-republicans dwell ?"
Another Anjvier.
" If Marat is dead,
And his spirit has fled,
From earth, to the regions of evil,
His hatred to Kings
Will produce the bejl things,
For he'll surely extirpate the Dew'/.'"
Portrait of D UMOURIER,
By M. De Vie tie,
A French officer who served Jeveral years
■with him.
'•IF the character of this man is extraor
dinary, his person is not deftitnte of origi
nality. Genius seems to ajiimite his fea
tures, which, oil the whole, are neither
regular nor agreeable. His body is finall,
and even diminutive. His eye is lively,
and full of fire ; his hair was brown ; it is
now becoming grey. When he speaks, his
head and his arms are agitated ; and he
often raises lis body on the point of his
foot. His gait is precipitate and irregiflar i
he changes his physiognomy at pleasure.
He has a small hand, and wanfs a finger}
but this does not prevent him from grasp
ing at a large object. When I was ac
quainted witn him', he breakfafted the mo
ment he arose, and always dined with a
good appetite. It was remarked, however,
that he was very dainty in the choice o£
his viands. After drinking coffee, he ge
nerally fell asleep, muttering' an epigram
or a couplet. On awaking, he loved to
mane a party at tric-trac. 11 he had plenty
of money, he went confttfntly to the come
dy. When there, I always beheld him
behind the scenes, disputing precedence
with the n.oclc monarchs of the theatre,
and rumpling the handkerchiefs Of the
goddellies."
SEASONABLE ANECDOTE.
A noted New-York Printer, who reftdect
in that'eity before the revolution, and
printed a newspaper there for many years,
was much plagued with refractoryJubferi
nets, who would not transmit him his duet
at regular periods. One In particular, at
a distance, notwithflanding an annual dun,
let his account run on for eighteen years
together, without paying a single fixpehce-
He had been frequently admonished, by
the Printer, of his neglecf, and advised of'
the consequences ; but to no purpose. To
put the neceflity ef punitual payment in a
more striking point of view, the Printef
had, in one of his private admonitory let*
ters,likened his gazette to a great mill, the
pond of which was supplied and repleuilh
ed from time to time by a multitude of
rivulets j but that if these rivulets Were
dried up, turned into other channels, or
Mtjpperi, and converted to their own pur
poses, by every person whote lands they
ran through, the water in the pond rnuft
at length inevitably fail, and the great
wheel no longer go round. The fubferi
ber was deaf even to this apt simile. He
thought water grift mills might be invent
ed to go without water. "Anyone Cob
ferved he) can grind with a full head of
water, but give me the man that call grind
his grift without any water at all ; He is
the fellow for my money I"—The printer
at length waxed wroth, from repeated
disappointment; and towards the conclufioll
of the 18th year from the time of fubfci i
bing, wrote positively lie should omit fend
ing the gentleman any papers ill future,
" unless the whole account was immediately
fettled."—" See now (fnid the ftibftriber.
011 reading the letter) what an ungrahfhl
fellow I have to deal with yyirt
ago, and upwards, 1 was the very firfj man'
that put my name to his Jub/ct iphon-hjl tu
encourage his pnf er, and this 11 the > *■>
ward J fttti7 witft /?»An EJJay on the bujinejs of Privateering.
HOWEVER the promoters of tills
business may have been at a loss,
touching the derivation of the word, they
could not have been at a lof6 after a few
moments reflection, as to the derivation
of the praCtice, or touching its nature and
tendency, which carries its brand in its
forehead.—No praCtice ever sanCtioned
by a chriftiaa power has ever (truck the
feelings of refiedtion with more abhorrent
fenfa'.ions.—Privateering (or in more plain
terms, Piracy) authorised by government!
Who but Itrangers to the rules of right,
con withhold their execrations, while re
setting on the subjeCt ? A privateer (hip
is a fort of fea-Lrpcnt, and an application
for a coiimifiion of that kind, ought to
he esteemed as a violent insult on govern
ment. When the qualifications requisite
to this undertaking' are duly considered,
the man applying for such a coromifiion
mud be esteemed as a person much better
fitted for a (late of confinement, than for
the command of an armed vessel. No man
ought, and ptihaps never will make an
application of this kind, till he is prepared
to perpetrate the mod horrid acts of bar
barity : he mult be proof against all the
molt moving solicitations, remoattrances
and agonizing sensations of those who fall
into h.s hands ; he mud be divefied of hu
manity to that degree as without remorse
to make the indnftrious mariner a victim
to the voracious cravings of a hurt devo
ted to infernal diCUtfs. He mu!t be har
dy enough to treat those whose only crime
is, that they have been born subjeCts of a
monarch, who to aggrandize hiruielf, or
to revenge some little conceived affront,
will expafe millions fff his subjeCts to the
horrors of war.—l fay he must flifdain eve
ry consideration of the kind, as beittj be
neath his notice : He must be nervous e
nough to hear his victim bewailing the ltate
of a numerous family, whose support in
life was dependent on his return from his
voyage, without the leall relaxation : He
mud be able to Itrip the decent good man
of his lait facing, the covering of his
body not excepted, without the least re
kntißg ; and if that foould be mod conve
nient. fend him and his crew adrift in their
plundered vessel, without bread or wat#r.
All these are reqoifite to the accomplidi
ment of a captain of a privateer : And if
any having in contemplation to enter upon
the bufinefn, should on examination find
themselves deficient touching those requi
fjtes, they ought net to take umbrage at
the description; but to acknowledge them
selves unqualified for the btifinefs. When
this infernal genius has obtained his com
million, his next business will be to fcleCt,
out of the mod abandoned class, their
taoft finifhed characters, his complement of
men. Then Ist reflection attend hi-m
while he ascends hisproper llation on board
the (hip, with his commission in his hand,
and calls his crew around him, to whom
he addieffes himfelf in the following man
ner : " Here my lads, fays he, is my
commission, you fee the national seal, per
haps fomc of you, through the influence
of a whimsical education, have been taught
to believe, that nothing but felf prefeiva
tion can juftify the (bedding of human
blood, or that to take the life of a fellow
creature,to avail yourfelvcs of his property,
is wicked. These, my lads, are mere old
wives fables, and all suspicions of this kind
mud be erased from your minds, before
you are prepared for the business before
you. Wisdom and knowledge, my lads,
are deposited with our rulers, and to fol
low their dictates is to be good fubjeCts—
they tell us, that avarice or gain has an
indisputable claim to their patronage
[begins to read & COfllfnent on the content;
of his commission :] "here, my hearty
boys, they tell us, that what old women
would call rapine, massacre and murder,
is judifiable, when avarice may be indulg
ed, or gain procured thereby : here they
tell us, that not only the little defencelefs
shallop may be sent to the bottom, and
its owners hurried into the other world,
but that we may facrifice whole (hips crews
to those fanCtionized objeCts. Ships of pub
lic property are restrained by the laws of
nations, and perhaps in some measure by
the laws of humanity. They must treat
their captives as prisoners of war, and a
deal of ceremony they have to attend to :
property, my lade, is the objeCt of our
pursuit, and our measures are Jest to our
own choice. The laws of nations arc to
be attended to by those who are in their
employ; the laws of humanity by those
who profefs fubje&ion thereto, but vve are
not fettered by either cf them. Ltt sailors
and mariners on board national {hips boall
of their humanity and manhood, they may
tell U6 that they would scorn to rummage
the pockets or strip a prisoner of his
deaths ; well tliey may, for if they rum
mage or rob, they gain nothing by it, but
every (hilling we get, my boys, is our own,
and he who don't (hear close, when the
fleece is his own, is a bad hufbaiid; not
only all (hipping belonging to nations with
whom we a'e at war, are free plunder for
us, but all (hipping from neutral ports are
liable to our search, "and if any goods on
board bear the most remote complexion of
contraband, the vefTel and cargo is ours.
Now boys, weigh your anchors, and let
us fee how much in the chara&er of your
profeflioa you will behave."
May the a'ofurdity and cruelty of this
toleration llare nations in the face, till they
blufli at their patt errors, and release the
world from the horrors attending priva
teering. [ Republican Journal. ]
Obfervationi on the fpecirs of the malignant
fever, nnw prevailing in PhilzdclpJ.'ia.
[Extracted from the New York Daily
Advertifer.~\
" r I HIS contagious disease refemblee
i in many of its principal symptoms
that moll malignant and fatal dillemper
known by the name of the yellow fever.
This <ir adful contagion was originally
brought into Barbadoes from the Spanilh
Mais, and in a course of commerce, from
Barbadoes to Philadelphia, New-York, and
Virginia, in the latter part of the sum
mer, about the year one thouland seven
hundred and forty-two.
This contagion was new, rapid and fatal
in its progress ; the symptoms, as myfelf
and other! have lemrded them, were a
ii« !en prollration of Pirength, a weight
and oppression about the heart and vitals,
extreme relllefTnefsand anxiety, severe pain
in the bowels, and about the region of the
liver, great thiift, a pretty full or rather
rarified pulfi.-, ficknefi of the stomach,
which if ftimuhted by aa emetic, l'eldom
failed to bring on an irreftrainable vomit
ing, changing in its progefs to a black vo
mit, resembling coffee grounds, which v.'a 3
one of the molt deadly charadleriftics of
the disease ; a deep yellow tinge 011 the flcir.
and coats of the eyes; and in frequent in
llances a discharge of blood from'ihe nose,
which soon after issued from the corners of
the eyes, the ears, and fometisies from
the pores of the (kin in a red form : all
thef? direful symptoms were closed by a
calm and gentle death, which usually hap
pened on the fourth and fifth Jay, and
sometimes on the third and (ixt'n t In ge
neral, the patient retained the perfect use
of his reason till the lad.
The phyliciatos in Baibadoesand in Phi
ladelphia too, from the apparent symptoms,
firft considered this malady to be an inflam
matory bHious fever, and under this fatal
delusion, prescribed bleeding and vomits,
together with acids, and other occasional
remedies: While this distemper raged, Dr.
Warren arrived from England, a physician
of learning and genius, and at firft treated
tht disease in the common method pradtif
ed there, but with ill success ; till an acci
dent induced him to change both his opi
nion and treatment: While he was con
templating thecharafter and symptoms of
this disease, he was sent for to attend on
a fea>faring man, who was seized with all
the symptoms of this fever in a high de
gree j he told his patient he Ihould direst
him to be bled, and would fend him a vo
mit ; the man himfelf rejected this advice,
and told the dodtor lie had observed that
this was the common method used, and as
fav as he could judge, it did not afford re
lief, or prevent l ke fatal effedts of it. Dr.
Warren acquainted him 'f h? did not
choose to submit to his advice he haa DO
btifinefs there, and left him—This poor
man with the affiitance of his nurse en
deavoured to throw himfelf into a sweat.
By drinking large quantities of sage tea
and other aids, he at length procured a
sweat, which giving some relief, encourag
ed him to persevere till he had brought on
a very powerful sweat and which he con
tinued to promote the whole night—Dr.
Warren blamed himfelf for so fudd*nlv
leaving this man, and called the next day
to fee him, when he was informed, he was
much better, and, on examining him he
fouud him much better indeed, his pulse
calm and regular, his heat, third, refllef
nefs, and anxiety relieved, his (kin was as
yellow as su orange, his fijirt and bed in
\vl>iclx he ky highly tinged with a deep
yellow, his body much weakened, his lpi
rits free and easy.
The light thrown upon this deadly dif
-1 eafa by this strong fact, the doilor had
judgment to perceive, and candour to own ;
; and from this moment changed his ideas
i concerning it : He no longer considered it
as a bitious inflammatory fever, or the I
' yellowness which appeared on the furface
I to be owing to a fuffufion of bile through
1 the habit, but to a highly putrid and ma
lignant fever unrelievable by bleeding or
I the grofTer evscuations, and fitted only to
Ibe expelled by the secretion of fiveat by
I the pores of the /kin, and the yellowness
[of the skin acd coats of the eyes, which
| before was thought to be owing to a dif
! fufion of bile, he now with more reason
i and certainty, concluded it to proceed from
[theadtionof a malignant poison, confli
; tuting the disease, ths natural effe£ls of
| which were, to dissolve and break the tex
ture of the blood, and by mixing the red
'part with the serum, gave this complexion 1
to the patient, in a way similar to the
effe&s of animal poisons, when conveyed
by the bite as venomous animals, particu-1
larly the rattle-snake, which is known to
tinge the Ikin in the fame manner, and from
the fame operation upon the human fluids.
Upon this rational i'uppofition, keeping
in view the fadt abovementioned, from
this time he altered his method of cure, j
wlik-'i was, after emptying and cleansing
the iirll paflages by gentle and diluting
methods, immediately endeavouring to re
lieve his patients by proper fudoritic and
antiseptic remedies, which succeeded with
him so well, that he positively does aflert
that after he had adopted this method, if
he was called early on the firft attack,
which is absolutely necefiary in all acute
diseases where the progrcf6 is so rapid and
fatal, he was almoil conllanily (uccefs
fui."
EXTRACT.
" THERE is no composition, the Oti
lity of which is so generally acknowledg
ed, and yet so little fct by, as a News
paper. Mod people of any tafle take a
paper, and are willing to allow, that when
well conduced, it has influence in
; mending the morals and manners of the
people : but the difficulty of conducing a
. paper, so as to make it ufeful to the pub
[ lifher and his ctillomers, but few have con
! fidered. A perfoa who can compile tme
} book on any iingle fubjedt so as to please
his readers, is thought worthy of having
his name transmitted to posterity as an or
nament of the age in which he lives, while
the editor of a newfpapcr, who has per
haps published many thousands on all sub*
jedts, shall die neglt&ed, and his name
fink in oblivion. Yet I am confident,
when the difficulty of compiling such a
heterogeneous medley, as is contained in
a newspaper, is fairly conCdered, it will
be found not only the most ufeful of all
publications, but the most difficult to con
duit.
A man may understand law, and may
be very able to compile an excellent trea
tise 011 that fubjeit, which shall be very
ufeful and entertaining to the c'tafs of rea
ders for which it is intended ; the outlines
of his work are all drawn to lus'hand j
the words and phrases which he mud use,
have been established and in use time out
of mind : He is writing for a set of men
who can easily understand him—he knows
his entire, and can please them if he choos
es: But him out of his track—out
him on any other fubjeft, and he would
not be able, perhaps, to write a (ingle pa
ragraph—The fame may be said of the
writers on divinity, pnyfic, and any other
single science; they have but one fubjed
whereon to-Sx their attention, and but
one class of readers so pL'afe—But in a
very different situation is the editor of a
newspaper; irifcad of one, he has the
whole circle of the fcicnces to deal with;
instead of one class of readers, trained to
his hand, he has all mankind to please } and
instead of serving his entertainment up all
at once, and having time to prepar« it, he
is obliged to it weekly, and on Hated
days, whether he is ready or not."
A FEW COPIESOF THE
TRANSACTIONS
Of the Society irijlituted in the State of
New-York, for the promotion cf
AGRICULTURE, ARTS, and MANU
FACTURES,
May be had at this Of?ic«.
[Price half a sollar.J
ptrfonsln arrears for thh papt*,
and po!t matters and others who may have
received fublcription money on account of
the fame, are requeued to make speedy
remittances. To prevent the dues fwel
iing to an improper amount, nopapers will
be continued to fubfci ibers after the 26th of
Oct. inft. who shall then be indebted maret
than fix months.—Punctuality of payineat
hi fubferibers, is the iirlt requisite in
undertakings of this nature, and wit Li out
which it is impossible that any publication,
depending merely on fubfeription, can long
exilt.
EIGHT DOLLARS REWARD.
RAN AWAY on the .20th of June lafl, from
the fubfer-frber Jiving in Caroline county, in
the itate of Maryland, near Choptank Bridge, a
NEGRO BOY, named about 15
>ears of age—he is tree born, but a boond fervanC
until 21 years of age—-he is tolerably stout ani
[trait built, has a yellow call in his countenance*
talketh wi;h his tongue against His teeth, has
thick feet, his toes square to the ends—his
mother's name is Lidye, who now lives in Jones'
Neck in Delaware state, wchere the boy has form
:d lome acquaintance lince he run away. Any
perfpn taking him up, must a£t with thi greatest
:aution, or he will give them the Hip., Whoever
up the said boy, and fecurcs him so that
the owner may have him again, Hull have the
above reward, paid by
WILLIAM JACKSON*
Sept. 4, 1793. 2aw6w
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold by Thom As DobsoN, Wil -
li am Young, Robert Campbell,
Meflrs. Rice and Co. and Joh?*M 6
Cu lloch, No. t. North Third-street,
AN EXAMINATION of the lute yro
ceeilings in Congress refpe&ing the
official c6ndu£t of the Secretary of the
Treasury; with Obfervatrons, &c. on the
application of loans from Holland, negoti
ated under the ails of the 4th and 12th of
August 1790. —Tlfj? price of the above
pamphlet is three of a dollar, or
is 4d. 1-2. April 24. 2aw tf
*#* The author reque-fts his readers to
correct the following ERRATA ;n the
pamphlet above mentioned. Page 5.
I'm 1 1 —2d. paragraph, lor Coalition read
Collijion. Page 25. line 11—2 d. parag.
in (lead of Bank directors read "Stock
holders. "
Seat of War.
FOR SALE,
At M. Carey's Store, 118, Mar
ket-street.
A SHEET MAP
Of the French, Austrian and Dutch Ne«
th-crlamla,
In witch the progress of ilie present War
Key be traced.
Price three eighths of a Dollar.
And a M A P of the
Three-Northern Diftrifts of France, di
vided into Departments—Price
011 e fourth of a Callar.
Maps of the United States :
AN/ publrc-fpirited gentlemen, poflefled with
materials tor corret l lin,g and improving the
maps cf the several state*, will lay M. Carey
under very particular obligations, by comtnuni
cating them. Kc is in immediate want of foixie
for Ncw-je»Tey and Delaware j of which ftates>
he is now preparing maps.
Guthrie's Geography:
THE fubfeription lor thin work will be conti
nued open, zr the present rate of twelve dollars,
till the fir ft day of November next j. after which
it Will be raised to fourteen dollars.
August 10*
TO THE PUBLIC. ~
an attachment at the suit of Sam
uel Imlay 2nd Nathaniel jmlay, executors
of the tcftamcnt and last will of Peter Imiay, de
ceased, has iilucd out of the Supreme Court of
Judicature of the (fate «f New. Jerfev, again ft the
lands of Garret Voorheis, late of the county of
Midilefex, and state afoief.-id, returnable to the
firftTuefday in September, leventeen hundred
and ninety-two—■— Notice it hereby given to the
said Carret Voorheis, that unless he appear a»d
file special bail to th- said aflion, judgment
will be entered againlt him, by default, and the
lands so attached (old for the fatisfa&ion of such
of his creditors as thai 1 appear to he jullly entitled
to any demand thereon, and (hall apply for that
curpofe, according to the foim of the iUtute i»
such cafe made and provided*
By Qrt'.cr of the Court,
April 17. law. iy HOWELL, CI ,
"
IN TWO OR THREE MONTHS,
AN APPRENTICE
REGULAR APOTHECARY.
A Youth not less than lifteen or lixreen
years of age, with a fuitabb education, and
good moral character.—Far further parti
culars enquire of the Editor. aawtf
k> .
PRIHTED BY
CHILDS and SWA IN E.
AT THfilk »rrlC2 NO. ZO9» HIGH-ST&KKT,
WEAR FIFTH-STKEIT,
PHILADELPHIA,