By P. FRE N E A U : (at No. 209, Market Street) Publijhtd Wednesdays and Saturdays, [Three Dollars per annut/:.]
Nctmb. 67 cf Vol. ll.]
To the at'thor oft'e htt-rs t" the Przfiinu
,f tit V :t"i Stnt"!. signed VERITAS.
t return to t-e fiibjr cl which induced rae
to Cuke up my pen. I think the Prefi
dent was right i.i remindi g "his fejlow
titizc-.s of their duty to all tne uorkl, in
remaining at peace with them, till tit.
Bowers above him iiail think proper to de
clare war ; i'urie i»a» not authority to do
St.—Tiiat li g, i prerogative is, by tiie coo
Ihtutiui, cxpi wldly veiled ;:i CoTigrels, anc
I hope lio ludiviciti .1 (whatever name h
,May alf.i.oe) Wi.i attempt to invade it.
die whole ol „hj clamor raised again;
the proclamation is on account of placing
x reiicli and fc.iig.iih nations oil an
footing of neutrality, it may not be ainifi
to e> i.n.ne tiie propriety of this? By tin
co:;flt£lKioii of the United Stales,_ alttrca
. mad*, or w inch inali be made, are de
tel., , jje tiie I'upi eme law of the land.'
i v.i article o.'fiie treaty, betweei
the JnUeU inters a.id insliSi'it maic imije
it is aj,i -eci, that "there lhall be a urn
>erpeui»i peace between hij Britan
hie 'i; aud the Untied t.ites, and be
tv ee.i i . Atbjeas of the one a.i.l citizen
t. ; : other , —Wiierelore, ail ho:lil tie
L,.,. , by lea and' land, lhall henceforti
jcs By the >1- fectioa of the fccoad ar
ticic' the coalfitution o. the Unite*
i>t.:tes' it is provided concerning the Preli
dent th'<f T ' lle tJ • ca '" e l ' ut the la v.
be faichVn.l. l y»? K S tUte<l "" Sir, whet
ue lee the P- exprel'sly with
i i the line ol Ji» '» proclaiming th,
irate of peace, til t.'tis treaty, this !n
pretie la-.v of the J<ftW has p.ar du, \ln
are « e to thin:: of a oui'y liwtdd.cm ifc«
under an aifumed nairls, eiJdeavou ,ti
intimidate the Preluie.lt into Oct6 neceii.i. y
ly leading to war. -vvlncfi Co.u£ r cfs
have power to ma te ? lor ii > c ' r letter
w ere nit- .idecl lor any purpose, it nit. t bt
to iiitnn.il ate, but I truit i i the ji.'maes o
oar •• tn-i.;:. « .. . .r.! ra-ttest " "
.be defeated. '• »• 'aid, procUm •o )
cinubt iti.i-te la a, granted in its Jul eli
sense, n r.l is the I'leildent ajtempi-sd t
make hiv, und>ng i'ouie te \ diipoieci < l
e Her into the le. ..ee of F.a.ce, i;e did
v tat tae f*t..*i .. a large f.-a.iy oug.it to
do . h. p.ibliuicd the actual date c.i the
,c > i ry i.i rd to the beil.gere .t p >w
t . jail warnc.l t)\f citize.is if this t.ite.
<• ie co le.j lences tliat .oald e.n'ue tu
t . aty i.i t .ir joini ij, eictier fide. Ye ,
t>..\ tins wife and prudent execution ot hi
(ln;y, ha-, drawn on hiiil your rel'eiitnient.
A.i.i 11,;4-1 whitii 10 private gentl«mai
( ioiild use lo a io ler, you ia!,c, 111', oi'trea
t.es, without Hiding them; for.
tnere is not a lingle art.cle *.i either o:
t tofe fuo.i ling b.tweeii tiie United Slate:
<a ic' Fr i ive, wiiereui it is ilipulated, thai
we i.i.iui join France, ill cafe. (h. .. 0,.1 dbe
i v'jived ..:.i war. This itipulatio
le-artl 10 their Blips aad prizes can II l«
coaipii-ed wi.h. confident with the itrie
Dcujallt), and impartial fntndiiup, re
commeniied cy the proclamation. The
cluu c* ot gu iraiitee implies, not a" agretr
ment to enter into war ; but only tnat tht
U.oitJd States lhall.ufe their reafonaole en
deavours to maintain t.ie French in theii
poflellions.—This may be done in avariet;
of ways; entering into a war is unquelH
onably one of the modes; but. it is no'
the only one, and ought to be the last re
sort- d to; I'cnionliraiico and treaty ouglil
to precede it; but, fir, luppofe it to bf
proper and neceliary to go to war; whe
il.o ald set it oil foot ? An anonymous wri
ter in a uewfpaper? There is no fuel
clause in the conllitution. The Prclidem
of the United States? No, W, he has m
power to d » it. How then lhall it bt
brought about. Is the "whole union fron
one extremity to the other'" whose fenti
ments you seem to know lo well, to
ind declare war ? No, Sir, our confliiuti
tion and the laws of nations point out thi
mode of procedure. The republic o
France has a miniller plenipotentiary here
authorized to I'peak the voice of the nbiioi
he has his iiiilructions from his coaliitu
ents, and knows his duty well. Whene
ver the fublilfuig treaties are violated, o.
not complied with on pur part, he wi!
call on our nation through its prop ; cr
gan, the executive magistrate, he \ ill re
monllrate againfl viola,ions and clam
compliances; conferences will of coin set n
fue ; and if the matter cannot be fettlei:
fatisfaflorily withoutwar, the rrilidenl
rniift convene Congress, Mid t. kc tit io
pinion ; they and tiny < nly can
war- Now", this fame mine er told
you on his arrival, t< r I pre fun e jour
vartu attachment to tiie cat'-fe would not
W E D s r E S D A Y, June 19, 1793,
permit you to be zbfent oil the occofion,
that it was not the willi of the nation he
re >re ie, its, to involve us ill the war. Af
ter this, !ir. does it (hew any in irk of good
citiEenfhip. for you to step forward with
an avowed dufign to diflui It our peace? Do
you know so little the ilori ors ot v. as to
wiiii your nation, already attacked by - i".
vage enemy on one fide. to engage fo.ir or
i-'e of ibe inoit powerful n..val nation
in the world, oil the other fide, and rill
the exigence of our infant republic? foi
wnat ? why to {hew our gratitude, you f; y
i ir gratirudtf is due to the fiipreme
d : fpofer of event, for placing us in the
mod happy and enviable lituation in tfi
world, in a (fate of peace with all civili
zed nations, in a fruitful country, under ;
well ordered government adir.'.iiii rei
with moderation, with nothi i tot ir bi>!
internal diffVntions and . . i : .tars: • ■
if we wantonly trample o;i so great • b
(lag. by entering into a war unvci lf.ni
ly: •. e fliof.l dtffervedly forfeit onr right
to it, audit maybe withdrawn for\ ei
I antic pats a f leer from you lor this feci
mis reflection ; biii I am not to b
fiieered out of it, nor w ill the good fcnfc
of this country give count : ance to filch
declaration a:, your pen is capa >!e of.—
I feci. Sir, and I feel feiifibly, for the
iliflrelfed lituation of France, and would
:ontribute as much as you to lier relief;
but, fUrroundetl asihe is by myriads ot
.* .emies. and diltniled within by factions,
I a.n lorry to fay I fee but a small chance
•f relief for her. Were ihe united within
ler own territories, she need not fear all
ner enemies; b t "a honfe, a
'and luTn a divided again It iifelf,
rannot (land, nd tinlefs common danger
hjiil r if ore union to them, France I fear
■vill fall,& with it the cause of liberty will
'eieive a (lain aid a check ; a llaiii; be
nfeOieiin eeflarHy entered i itoforetgn
■v. rs, a- v !U.il Ucve us do, wf. ■ si_l..v
iro;.i.-r b.: i was to aze riVr - own
tf.ai.' and a check, b?canfe, her (ate will
■ ' iv' d ; : argil ,uent again t all improv
II -nt- n t:ie governments of r urope; and
: v.'-y jiowefful one it will tie. But
i . a I i:ope there sre mean in the
l i:.. ; ml".' f Providence to bring good
■\K it evil, and ellablilh a free and happy
ejmbiic for France. I confefs I do not fee
hem ; r.or ;:o I nk it would be prudent
:us to 11ilk our fate with theirs, for the
olio . ing reaaan- :
ill. Thev don't alk it of us : and that
noil probably
2d. Becaule we could afford them no
■ffeftual affiitance by fta or la,.d, as allies
n war.
3d. As allies in peace, and in a state ot
Irict neutrality and impartial friendlhiji
ith all the world,our flag will be refpec!-
■d and we can carry onr provisions anc
'npplie?, not contraband to their markets,
a Inch will be of ten times more confe
j'ieni e to tliem than everything else we
.ouSd do for tin 111.
4_h. We owe something to our own fafe
:y, which in our infancy will be endahgt r
:d by any war, our government is sup
11 i leil and the inters (I of our debt? is paic
jrincipali) by duties on importation ; t iel'<
would be so diniinid ed as to dilabU- the
government from paying their debts, with
DUt the impofltion ot direct taxes and odi
jus excises ; the collection ol which nnglv
ntrociuce doniellic d.lordt rs a d endange;
aur internal pi - ce.
sth. By keeping in a fc :t- .? pe ce, out
country v\ill ' e the afyium 0. tiled:: reflet!
;>f all nations ; arts and mant.faiiorie
will be introduced by the immigrants ; a
;riculture will flourifli ; commerce will
extend to every quarter. of the globe, anc
these llatei may by the blefiing of Heaven
ife to a (late of prosperity, which the o.c
■lorld, diura£ted Ly almoll wars,
has never known.
6th. We are no way bound to risk the
,ol'sof this happiness by taking a part ir
■aar; 10 treaty requires it,& it would beihe
eighth of liiadnels to enter voluntarily in
to it, when well; ve so much to lose and fc
little to hope for from it.
7th. Should we engage in it fide o!
France, and fl.e be vanquilhed, the com
bined powers :n I-urope, having crufned
he spirit of reprblicani m there, may take
it into their heads to invade this country,
i\ hell tli. y will fiid an easier prey than
when wi ■ d cur powerful aoy, and many
ecret friends among them; our country
1 ay he la d walle, and the onlyafyluhi in
.he iu c! ;or thS.opprcfledj lose itscapic:-
.} cfp. ..ecUng them.
Her?, Sir, you have iny opinion, and the
reafori. lor it: they are convincing to my
judgm nt, and I throw tliem before the
j.tit/iic, with.*, lincere wilh, that they may
beconfidered with temperance, and have
no other efteft on the minds of my feiluw
ritizc ns,than they shall be found to deserve.
1 ours, &c.
A Friend to Peace.
Frotn the New-York Daily Advertiser.
To Citizen CENEI . Mihifier Plenipoten
tiary fron the hej'ublic of I tame totht
li/.iteci jtates of America.
t-HF French revolution, is one of thos e
* events, few of w h'ch occur in thero"
tation of many centuries.- The affairs of
irions, indeed, have ever been fubjetl ti
litic'tiiations : but f. >.m the present iittiati
imi of your republic", the mint! is held in
dreadful" fufpfnee, both from the magtii
:ude of the occ. fioU, and the very tlitier
-nt conferences wlii.h must ensue Iron
•i al victory, or defeat. —If you succeed ii.
hlilliing an efficient government upon'
■;e true princ : p'es of repfefentation, and
s.tual liberty, an sera will commence, more
infpitious to the liapp nest of the huma;
-ace t-h 11 tic ainaij of manki (! a.ford,
ince the delfruilion of the Roman t ir.
siircj' In a Short space of time, the geniu
jf liberty will poilefs those feat*, which so
;ges part have been occupied throughoU
he world, by the scorpions of difpotilin.
istit if upon the contrary the combined mo
larchs of Europe, fhouid impose upony.-uii
lation a:«d arbitrary monarchical f)item.
:hei? it is jtiliiy to be apprehended, that;
kvith y. u, the v. hole world w ill groan tin
ker a tyranny, rendered ten fold more im
n>l jcabl'e. and, firm, by tirs R-rerous
at" your brave and patriotic fellow citizens.
In a conceit til .m el ore , upon wlt : ch f»
iiiiCh depend you n \ re iflured. tha
VinW>f.';.ns will. rr ~-?r fs. -.<■ -
"vmpathize in ili your aclver(iiie< Vv
:onlider'your cause. as the common cawfe
)f mankind. —We consider <t «■ • :*t '.anft?
if •ur wivesfi: children,and of poOerity for
i fuccedion oi ages : Fur i otwit!i(lai;ding
>tir diltar.t fep iiatio;: i>y the atlantic, ih
lieu our liberties, and independa ice asin
imately connected with your prolperity.
We suppose that all go> ei iments are, or
aught to beinilittued tor the protefHon of
lie civil and religious rights of the people;
,ve lotow this to be the o! j £t of your
ountrymen ,* however they may differ a
iout the m- de. or lie diltracied about the
means. Wt know, that the Empe
rors, ai'd nobility oi Europe. coufider and
:re-'t, the gc t nnfs of mankind, as crea
sed for no othe> purpole than to labor in
nakedness. and ft arvation. to support their
uxuriesjdtb. uchcnes, and insatiable pride,
i. d amb tlon.
We are your friends not so much from
j. atitude » fentirpfe'nt, we abhor tyranny ;
i\ e enthsilalHcally reyere the principles of
liberty and equality, the advocates for
ihefe. will h '\-e our prayers for fn' ccfsj
whether called.Fnglilliiren, Spaniard, or
Turks—we are attach'd to things, rather
than names—we consider the irivafion of
r country upon this occailon, as a fla
grant abuse of the freedom and indepen
dence ofall nations—wecannot therefore
be indifferent fpeflatorb—we can, and we
will think, and Tpeak and write : and tho'
the laws of the land may give to the soli
:ary few among us, of a contrary opinio",
the fame privilege, we can, and we will
,lo more ; we \\i 1 afford you every aid in
Diir power confident with the neutrality
which the policy a'sd perhaps necessity of
uur government may at present require j
and we will prevent in cafe *»f diftoverj
any real allili .nee to your enemies.
It is not so fill-prizing, as it is with regret,
we observe, the unprovoked and incoulif
tent part, the British havetaken i-p the con
cerns of France. They are \\ ith you, the
moll enlightened people in the eastern lie -
mifphere —they boall extravagantly, and
with much reason too, of the excellence of
their conltitution —they profefs to know,
and to enjoy, the true principles of free
dom to thecoma ynity, combined with the
energy and digji.ty of government; they
bellow out for the roaflbeefof Old \ ngiand
for liberty and property ; ar.d be hold these
champions, enlisted under tiie banners of
proud iiifulting tyrants, to exterminate
from the globe every noble fentinient they
themfelves-pofiefs, and to fix the chains oi
fiavery upon a great nation, which of all
others they ought,to join a:id protect ; they
are finningajtaiiiH: knowledge, and there
[Total Numb. 171.]
lore inexcusable. It is to be feared, that
thj period is not dirtant, when, unless
they reform their boalled government,
theymuft according to the pretf'/iion if
one of their liiftorians* retire to their
children of America, for peace liberty and
fai'ety.
We nevertheless hope 3nd believe, that
the Great Being, who "rides the whirl
wind and directs the (torm of nature,"
will controul the tempeils of war, give .
you a good government, and restore the
republic to a (late of tranquility and hap
piness.
The hour of adverfityj is the time thar
tries mens fouls—American fortitude was
n;ver displayed with so much glory as
when the servile legions of hritain and of
Germany, driving uil befoie then> at one
:ime almost literally annihilated our army,
which at other times was frequently so re
duced, naked, starved and frozen, as not
:o be fufficient in point of numbers to form
\ vanguard, for that of their enemies : But
Hough few they were brave and hardy men,
g for and happily lor us we
:ad at thole periods, neither a Bumou
:eh nor an Arnold in the chief com
•land. Despair never entered the doors of
-ongrefs—and the bright tiune of patrio
tic virtue, ruse with the extremity of the
jccafion. Our magnanimous general, and
uir venerable fc-nators, gave to future ge
erations, at thole periods a leflon, and a
"pecimes offtabilitj, worthy of imitation.
The coitett which the French are embark
ed in bf ing in its object similar to ours, and
embracing also every conlideration that caa
render life and victory definable, will again
convince the tyrants of tfte earth, that true
I'atriotifm is invincible.
Citizen enet.
These are not ihe iinconfidered fuggef
tionsofan individual lingulir in his tenti
ments; —13e ajj/.-rt d, though unauthorized
i v any fpeci..i authority, I convey to you
he fiiyuaee of uinetcya twentieths of A
i erica, fotoe w ill fay of ninety nine hun
dredths. It is my refohition, that your
ioiimrymeii if they please, and all tiie
Aorld, Ihould Know at least from one, that
Americans are the friends of the rights of
mankind, and of coui fe the edverfaries of"
ilefpotiftn whosoever, or under whatfoe
ier form it may appear. 'Tis true, there
ire among,til, those, who confiderin'* thein
rrhes Britilh fubjeOs retain a prediction
or their countrymen :—Their prejudices.
iowevcr absurd, are in some degree excu
'.ible—The cidevant royalists of America
laving experienced the bieffings, and equal
iroteOion of republican government, are
jlmolt iiniverfally attached t:> its interest,
mil diverted of former prejudices, have
jecomcr good citizens, participating in offi
ces of the greatest importance both in the
iegiflative and executive department of
fate—But to the disgrace of hmnaniiy
here are also a few, whose idolatry to the
lame of king to this clay fupprefles every
generous sentiment of the foul, ar.d wl,tf
meanly and ungratefully, enjoy the tun
[iiin.e of prosperity, and eat the bread of
;he country, they cfieitto despise. They
ire contemptible weak men, incapable of
iiltinguiiliing between persons and things.
In a revolution diUirguifbed by tuch a va
riety of unprecedented and extraordinary
events, an unprejudiced fpect-tor is noc
"urprifed to hear that different interell and
apinipus prevail, and are productive of
.drife'queuces, w liich the philosophic mind
contemplates with auxlptv—much lei's i 3 it
» onderftil that at our diltance, receiving
ill intelligence through a pal tial medium,
ite cannot reconcile a good polfcy and m
itice to some of those occurrences, whicli
iaie clouded your political atmOfphere.
From w hat has been written, you :r, iy
ivell prefnme that your arrival upon thjs
continent, as the reprefenu tive of a great
and hcroic nation ot republicans, is in the
if.gheft degree plealing to the citizens of
the United States ot America.
That the God of battles may give success
to your armies—wisdom, hrmnefs, and
charity,to yourcounfellors: & that you may
elhiblilha republicanfyfts-m, with as flrwpsJ
an executive, as can comport with the jtilt
rights of the people, ar.d thereby haffen t|ie
day, when the lamb may in peace,find Se
curity lay down with the lion—the French
man with the Englilliman—the Ruffian \\ ith
the Turk- —and rhe American with the In
dian ; —when war beingforeverdone away,
the nations may-, m the enjoyment of li
berty. only be rivals in literature, true re
ligion, anil in the arts of paace, agricul
ture and commerce—is the lieccre wilh «f
H SmoiUt*1. I
rit from this add.-ess , but a< coming Ir -
one wlO having defended t:ic liberties <>;
I U c vv 1 co intry in tils day ofdter calami
iy, wi hes the fame liberty to Me -a tilt
ha ua i race—A'id from one, who being a
Ainer'can fre#hoUL*r, if not To great a ma .
id m j v happy and independent thin tlu
F.mp-r ir of German'.' ; and wltilfl he ob
fe.'ve the la •. s of the land, his none ti
jua.ce mm jfraid. From Citizen
wm. wrtLcocKs.
N. .V Yo. k, June 9th, 1793.
For t'l, N 115-j 11 'iI Gazette.
Mr. FrtnisAU
TT WJV > b- i anient from (he city for
■* si \ lav'. i did it until this morniaj
j-erufe :i- piece figlie:i "A Friend t«
P•• i." I aci ire . r-s '.entleni m'j pe
i) f" i£i >i, and (iibfcribe cheerfully to hi:
j>->,tr cal e'd. I fe no propriety i
IV 'utin.7.>' t e conduct of p iblic officers
II i..vr.' mr)s much contention anr
ire.j'j uiy ,>r«»d ices a paper war—and a
:i 11 .v.i icons lent with repuhlicai
p i icip 'S, v ihould avoid every tiling o
the i<r ;d. K.* tide , ';>rivate citizens are Bo
com;) tenfjudges of tneir own good, an.
therefore ought to uitid their common as
furs, and not rt i ;rn li "hilelves with
public matters. Ilai n.>c i e " Friend u
Peace" i >!d us rh it tile brt ach of iufpicioi
jmi'i n the wafted toward; our prefen
aclminiftratibn, left it fhotiid coivulfe the
gov ime.lt. and occalion a l rchyand con
funj'i. Shall we then by our o.vn imper
tihe.it enq . iea into'tne cn unict of ad mi
liiltration, rrk fnch fatal c fecjuercei .
I hope not. — «iiit rather, a dir dhd by ti
abovementioned writer, look up to on
rulers With awe and reverence, end pre
fume not to place ourft Ives on a "lr»<
with them " It 'ii abl'urdt > I iy, that th
in ire frequently the principles of a repub
can government a e difculuil, and the be:
ter it is tmderftood, the greater will be ii
feciKity. No w I a;n of opinion, that the
more myfterioiis any thi ig is, the less it i
umlerftood and the more out of fight it i
kept, the greater u ill be the adoration paic
to it. Our adm'iliftration, like the king
-of F.ngland and ttie wild bealtsin tiie tower.
Should not be exposed to v ulgar eyes, and
only exhibited on particular occafioos.
As to our coilduft with refpett to the
powers at war, our writer has given us .
good leflbn, if we are wife enough to pro
fit by it. He has told us, thru as the French
are threatened with defirnftion from ah
•quarters, they mufl of course he fubdtied.
That it will therefore be our policy to dif
solve the friendly connexion that com
menced during ou i* own ftrugales for liber
ry, as the/ cannot no.v be of any mort
service to ;n. That gratitude for past fer
vices ought to give place to policy. And
finally, that the far of bringing on our
selves the wrath of thole omnipotent
princes, who are now wreaking their ven
geance upon the miserable people of France.
Jhonlil lead lis to difdaim all friendlhi
"With tint unfortunate nation. I amthemore
confident hat these truly patriotic lenti
ments will soon be the governing principle
in this country, as they seem already to In
adapted by Tome of our mlers and terrair
influential iharafters. What a dreadfu
Situation forns, if our foolii'n and inconfi
tlerate attachment to the French cau r e
Should involve ns in an open war witl
Great J.itainin particular I fay opei
wir became f >me pe pie are fowii enougli
to beiirve, th ■ t l!u even now d.f.overs a
h i jle spirit towards us by retaining out
we tern polls, and Supply- g the lavage
■withw it tike inlriimrnts lor the purpof.
of def il.iting our fron <--s. But has no.
the " Friei.d to Penc ' made known ti.
tis, that f.ie lias l'ufficient reaforis forth
detention ofthi.fepofti ? We ought tliert
fore i all coif.iencc l be fiti si don thi
liead, and ma no farth' r euq' iries about
the matter. I he devastation on the inhabi
tants of the 1 rentiers, is a circumOsnce w t
ought not to take notice of. It is only by
blocking up our f. a-ports, that a deadly
wau'id is inflicted. Then we mull bid adieu
to dear commerce, and all our iuture
hopes of wealth and grandeur. Can a
thoufind rives of our frontier inhabitrn'r
be put :n competition with this calamity ?
Certainly not. Awaken then my country
men, or ra.iier brother speculators, to a
fenO of your danger. Gonciliute the minch
of the all-conquering Britons, by adopting
their principles, which are surely moi\
conge.nil with the spirit of our Govern
ment, than the French. Formerly'an at
ta.hmdnt to otir country, and an abhor
rence of EngliOimen, was a ruling principle
in this country—but the cafe is altered. A
Sympathetic congeniality ot sentiment be
tween fo-.ne of our great men and Britifii
emiff.iries, has happily done awav ail ani
molity, except among a few hot headed
republicans. I (hall now mention one
more reason, why we should renounce the
French, and cultivate the friendfhip of the
Englifli. It is the difference in the forma
tion of their respective frames. There is
a peculiar excellence in the contexture of
::n Englishman's body. The blood that
flows in his veins is of a Superior quality to
any other nation, more especially the
.French. The former, confciotis ofhisfu
ncriority, manifeffs the utmoQ contempt
r ~nr m 1
ft' f-fimicienry,arrogs cy and preemption,
may be found in the lo a eft as w»ll as the
iugneft orders of tli :tpeo;>le Heme »
c.) jjifd faibor, as '.veil as his fu-perior ofli
er% think, lie hai on indubitable right t<
mfult a Frent .mail wherever he meeis
nm. An.l I cV-isiot hel|> r»martd;ig. thn
::ie toleration of this act, in several in
tmces. lately In lie republican city of
Philadelphia, li an indub:t.:ble proof ol the
growth of my opinions. A> I mean to con
inue this fubj.'fi at another time, 1 fha.l
close for the present.
MERCATOR.
June 17th, i 793.
.. .. *r-rauJU »■ 1 »—
Mo. IV.
COOL REFLECTIONS kfi.Ativeto
the FRENCH REVOLUTION.
'pHF. more I on the princip'es am
temper ol the people of America, an;
hear the sentiments of that cI«G which is
the fa ire ft fiir.ple of the great bedv if our
.itizens, the more I discover < f the pre
vailing eager good will to the French re
volution, aiid that in the nature oi thing?
it could not be otheruife. In pirticula:
irciei and pi ices, particular canfes may
produce dif.itfeftion and hatred to France ;
nit \\ hen these.particular iauies curre t<
ie examined and underfteod, thev will hi
;ound to be inimical to liberty and repub
can government in general, and confi
dently to prove a contrary fentimeut ii
;lie body of the people who are attacheifti
liberty aiid republican government in gene
1 ,d. If lam a lince. e friend to freedom ii
.iy own country, 1 cannot help will ling t<
eit spread intu other countries So the
nan ulio is an enemy torepub:ican govern
nent etfewhere, cannot be attached to fuel
a government at home. This is ag
•o the uattue of man and the retiton o'
hings. And on this ground, if I had n<
. 1. tii ulnr evidence to guide my judgment.
I (liould be Aire that the cause of the Frencl
evolution muff be popular in general, anr
unfitfhionablein pnriictilar places. Let an;
man, whoby talking, and hoping, iff
ng, has brought himfelf to believe that tht
general sense of the people is again!! tl <
French revolution, make the trial by quit
ing his part'cular c rcle. and harangu'u
before a city meeting, or a cotinty elec
tion, 111 the I'.mr ft rain he uses in hi; focia
>r confidential hours ; let him tell the peo
pie he hopes the duke ol Brunfwick will dc
better this campaign than t e lalt ; that the
nerceiury armies eng ..;ed 111 the cause o
kings will fncceed againlt the' citizen troop.
:h .t are fighting the battles of the Frcn: I
rpublic, that al]go.id Americans are boulit
iy gratitude and policy to wilii fcr tht
lownfal of the republic, tire re-eftablilh
uent of the th on; 1 , and the bringing bad
.he people, by tlie point of the oayonet, 1111
r ler the yoke of monarchical government
let him be lilly enough to try this experi
ment, and he will not he long in discover
ing how much he has been out in his reck
oning. There is indeed a fe:ret confei
oufneft of the general sentiment ol tiie
country on this fubjefl, in t.'ie mod zealou
enemies of French republicanism, whir'
their conduct fully evinces ; for wheneve'
(except ill a few u guarded cafe-.) the)
vent their doflrine to the public thro' th
newspapers. they do not speak tlieii mean
in; in direst terms, hut go to work col-
Mterally by a ft ting of faOs, oi
touching the firing of compaffien for rh t
iate king, or setting out in Orong colour:
particular evils blended in lr.eafures ami
vents good in themselves ; thereby hiding
is far as they can, from the reader, thai
.lie true contest at present in France is be
tween liberty and tyranny ; between re
publicanifin and royalty—or, in one word,
lietween the people and the enemies of the
people.
I n order to Comprehend fully the com
.lexion of America in relation to the af
fairs of France, we must attend to three
everal forts, or characters of people found
among us. The firft fort is that which 1
lave all along spoken ips as the great nia r s
0 the community, friendly to the French
revolution from principle, from sentiment,
from interest, and from habits of mind
formed under our republican governments.
It comprehends the landed interest at large;
merchants, for the molt part, who are A
mertcan or Irifli by birth and also in capital,
together with the generality of tradesmen
and manufacturers. The class opposed to
the French revolution with decrees of ma
lignity varying according to' circumstances,
II made up principally out of the following
defcriptions—Nativesof monarchical coun
tries who have not llrength of mind to re
nounce their prejudices—Natives of Ame
rica, educated and travelled abroad, who
have been weak enough to contract preju
dices contrary to the spirit of their own
country—Americans trading on foreign ca
pitals—Such as are attached to the Britifl:
form of gnvernment, and are grieved to
fee the republican form in their own coun
try fortified by the eftablilhment of a limi -
lar government in France—The generality
of the holders of the public debt, who (by
whatever cause it is to be accounted for i
1 observe, are (with laudable exceptions
however) bitter againlf the French revo
lution—LalHy, a proportion of the men
holding lucrative or durable offices in go
' '
morti/yi f, tooo r «. ve how loon men \\iu>
1-vcli" on thcvpL.'b - bej'in to f parate them
felv>g in their-feelings'and views from the
common mass i»f oitfeens,, and to beioni
ct f rflTiin i:e advocates for power
for every rtieafure ot government whate
ver, as if they were appointed and paid no.
r .o serve their couir ry, but w ere enHAer
into a particular corps, having axHftinft a <
eparate mterelt to defend ag.ai.Jit the pto
ile as a common enemy- I have seen so
1111 ch of this weaknef> in many Teeming!}
?ood and refpeflable men, and such change
" t"e language and opinions of invn, 011
eing put into lucrative polls, as have ; fto
ilht d me ; and ied me Co refieit, if Inch
>e the cafe in filch a country and govern
ment as ours, what must be the spirit of
government and office, where the people
lave neither agency nor influence therein I
There is a third fort of people, who vi
brate between the other two, according
:o reports and intelligence from Europe.
Their mouths are open or flint, their
:ongues let loofc en this or that tide, just
icc®rding to the new's at the Coffee honle.
Kvcvy lliip that arrives influences their
principles. Whilst Amiterdam v\astrem«
iling at the advance of Dumourier, they
iv illii il to be talked to as the friends of li
berty and France. On the victory of the
prince of Saxe, they stalked abroad the
iooniy prophets of perdition to France,
;nd i:dled off towards the enemies to her
.aufe. This description is more numerous
:han could b. wilhed, for the ho.iour of our
:i u try, arid indeed, of human nature;
ho' 1 trufl and believe not fu'fficieftt to givt
iiui.h v eight to the ciafs of enemies to
rench liberty, when put into that ft ale.
I Ilia]! only obfeive at present refpefting
this flu3:ii itiag ft of men, that they may
etivid d intotwo k rds : c ue of which i"
; ovfrned by a natural timidity of temper,
aliich inaKC3 tliem a'moft involuntarily fl) 1
,o 11.e par:y that has the cry of victory on
rheir fine. The other is dirciled by a li.or:
lighted time serving policy, that always
I'quares its principles to its intere!!ec
hopes, and thci'e to every momentary (late
of things.
FHILADF.LPHUS.
June 14.
-'-'11=1' < ■ •
For the NATioNAt Gazette.
TT is an observation of ancient date, thai
i a weak or qirbbling advocate is oftei
more injurious to the cause he effoufes
than its mod formidable ()•
.his'f.'e have a recent iiifiance, in " A frienc
•op :iee," who. in his vcrbofe answer it
' \ -.-rit thews himfelf to be totally de
void of .tfndoor, and endeavov.i s to thri v
'ult in the eyes of the public, by fcrft ir.if
reprefvnting the molt clear find cxpl.ci
ihfervations ot his antagoailt.and then wa
ging war, not with the arguments oropiu
ions of Veritas, but with those whic'J < ri ■
in his own diftortcd imagination
Now what is this butto acknowledge, tha
he letters of Veritas co ntained unaufwrr
ible truths; truths which could not other'
wife be overset. than by the molt baft' arti-
Sees of nf.freprefer.tation ? So farisths
piecc lignt d A Friend to Peace, fro 11. beinj
n anfsver to the letters of \'eritas, that 1
think he might as w ell have addrelled Isii
observations to t!ie man in the moon as tc
that writer.
Vt ritas complains that ouf treaties witl
France are not recognized in the procla
mation ; that this omission, together with
liie general tenor of the proclamation, hsd
indiK. il many to suppose that theft; treaties
were no longer to be regarded ; and fug
belted that it would be prudent in the ex
;cutive to compose the public mind, by
giving filch explanations as appeared n cef
fary, on this, u.terefting f.ibjeft. Healfo
observed, that it could not be confident
with our duty or interest, to violate our
plighted faith, a .4 thereby involve our
selves in a war with Fram c:—What an easy
matter would it have been for the execu
tive to set this bulinefs in its true light I —
Had proper explanations been given, on
the appearance of Veritas's firlt letter, cr
on the publication of the numerous eifays
»n this fubjt ft, which had appeared i 1 \a
rious parts of the union, how much iinplea
fant altercation might have been avoided !
Hut such condejccnjlori, it seems. ought not
to be expeiled by the " iwinifli mul
titude""
Those who have perused the letters of
Veritas cannot but view with astonishment
the effrontery of his adversary in. publicly
hazarding the following aflertions—" Tiie
only apparent tendency of your letters is,
to intimidate the executive into some act
that 111alI infringe the neutrality of our na
tion, and involve us in a war, 011 the fide of
France, against all Europe." And again—
•' The evident tendency of your letters is
for war, and you are not contented with
giving j ir own opinion on the fubjett, but
fay it is iue decided opinion of the union."
These groundless charges are contained in
r. lengthy exordium : after which thU
writer comes to "argument," as he calls
the subsequent part of his curious per
formance.
But how are we disappointed, when, in
stead of arguments tending to prove the
coniiftency of the proclamation with the
treaties between France and the United
Sfstes, v. e and the n?"t coltirr'i orrrp 3
w tli jiii c\ afive digrefiion on the v.ut.e fub
lifting b' twcen nations. The w ritcr mij-ht
have lin ed himfelf much troub'e, by tranf
ribing a page on this fubjeft from Grotius,
Puff. ndorl, or Vattell ; of his knowledge
i which authors he m sket a moll pedantic,
l.fplav. Fe then proceeds (diffulVly e:i
>uj*h, God knows,) to f!:e\v that we are c.t
r?eace with Great-Britain ; and. co.pfe
qnently, are as much friends to that nation
as to V ranee. He proceeds to ct rrbat the
lydra of war, created by his ov, n i:r i la
;ion ; and concludes with a variety of. co
lons to AijJ'uade us from hiking up ar::. f. . I
;\nd fncli is now the conduct of every fyco
l>hantic or aril'ocratic scribbler in Ameri
ca, whenever any tiling is (aid in tavour of
France, or refpefting the obligation of
trca y j as if it were impofhble to W'llifuc
:efs to France, or to pit a*l for the faithful
performance »l" our treaties, without be
ing disposed to go lo \v r.
111 oj>pol)tion to the opinion ofVer*ta%
'that the citizens of thffe dates, from one
extren.iiy of the Union to the.other, are
'irmly attached to the caufe'ot France —
it is laughable enough to be told, in lub
tance, by the Friend to Peace, that this as-
Vrtion is coiitradiiled 1 y the proclamation
jf tlie only executive officer, who ha« eon-
Vituttonal authority to speak the ftrCof
he Union ; and that the prelident mud be
ight, lince his opinion lias been apj rovrdby
i number of merchant? and traders in Phi
adelphia and Baltimore—ha ! ha ! ha 1
But what ft ems molt provoking to this
a ritcr js, the declaration of Veritas, that,
lowever " the little buz of the ariltoirauc
"ew and their contemptable minions, of
pecu'atars. tories. and hiritifh cmifTaries,""
nay be raife<l against the glorious cause of
France, the general \eire of America is
otiri in her favour, Ah, Mr. Friend to
Pear*, does the jippeiiation of tory touch
,'ou in a tender part ? No wonder, m.-,
;hatone who was ininiit.il to the cftablif -
nent of American independence flui.ld'
jerfevere in his tory principles. No won
ler that you are so eloquent in wlvocating.
:'ie il.rvn of Great-Britaiil to rur friei d
lip. equally with France; i':>d mat. not
svithftai.tl'ng )-ofir hypocritical rants, and:
p.ffeScd feeling for the d.ffrefies of Fra* 1 * e,
,ou '"fee no relief for her. furrourt'd
file is by myriads o- enemies, and d'ffraftee!
within by f.rfliorts." But Mr. Tory, (for
iuh I am well afflired you are) you oight
:o rectolleff, that while America bad my
riads of Ibr 'ign enemies so c read with,,
he had alfb traitors in her bofoiv,. Frajic e
iow has : .yet America triumphed, and
io ie, vjho ivith well to France, ard conli
ler her great refourres. rr.d the animating
jiTCrgy Impacted tt> all her Tons b> the
reat ol j ct lor u l:Uh they are c r i tending,
i!i yet despair of her being equfliy tri
imphant.
This tory fyrophar* has the rffrontf; y to*
*#pCat one of the vileli Panders that has
i.en raised againf! the l ren<h nation—
amely, that " with the fall ot France li
berty v ill receive a fla'n, because (he n>'-
ectjfdrily e , tered i ti foreign n ars. whin
her ptoper bufmefs ai to organize her
owd affairs.'' 1 wool, f all the flander
prs, tories, anci tools o' defpotifin, in Ame
rica or el If where, what are their
:hnt France entered into untieceffrry
wars, or that she could ir'vp avoided any
of the wan in whi* h Hie i engaged? Af
ler many fruitlefs ndeavonrs to preserve
I'ease. firft Anf'ra and Pjiifii.', and
ince irh Gi ? t Brii in ; when thefepow
ers not only leiuf* »l to liegocia'e. bnt were
preparing to attack her, was it not high,
time to consult for herown faftty f Sure.y
it was. -Whatman, who taw the arm of
i rrfrian uplifted againli him, would pal
ive ly w ait the event of the menaced blow,
rather than endeavour to avert it. and fe-
L iire his own fufety by knocking down the
ufijilaut.
GBSERVATOR.
June 17th.
Foreign AfTairs.
Amsterdam, .April 15. General Cll (line
is polled uit .1 his army between Landau>
and YVifl'onbourg ; according to authentic
intelligence, it confilbs only 0t'24,000 men.
General WurmCrr, at the head of 12,000
Autfriaus, and 4000 troops of Helie Darm
liatlt, whoclofcly pnrfue'l them ai far as
(jemerftieim, has his advanced ports at
Vergzabern. As General de Hohenloe is
approaching through the deiiies of Durk
heim, on the lide towards Newlladt, the'
French will find theii)feive« between tv\o*
fires, and be prevented bo'Ji horn throw ing
up entrenchments, an,; from procuring,
allitlance.
Bruftels, April 13. A rapid movement
made by our army again)! Conde, gave rife
to the premature report of its being taken.
Notwithflanding the defeition of gener I
l.umourier. the French (till -eem determin
ed to oppose the efforts of the combined
arm'es. The position which they have ta
ken is as follows : A conliderable body of
their troops will occupy the entrenched
camp of Maubeuge. to core- the hollow
v hich is between that place nnd Givet.
Another body w iilform a can p. at Famars,
between V alenciennes and in order
to "ive fufcour if necefTary to the formef\v»ile Li3rf sad F.-rash Tl.outers
e proiefted bv an army advantage
polled at Maulde.
hn. April j3. The defeTion of Dtt
, -irr has ultimately proved of 110 f'ur
i nfo to the combined paves, than
t1 t '>!" having « ithdrnir» a very i' telhgem
a 1 I Dopuiai- o'li er from the r reuei; inMCf,
and o f " riving d'funited their northern zr
my. O 1 the other hard this so ce has been
thrown into the French garrison towns,
w)', h perh-ip-. may prove- a greater i.i-
"> the Aullriaus than if the ar
my h id kept together.
Dunnurier is tiftythree years of ngr.
TJe is of low extra-ti'in, and was intio.
fluced into public lie by the Duke d..
("hoTctil. who took hi n under hit protec
tion. The npiditv of his movements car
! _• compared only to that of ins ideas. H.t
icipal nourifhme.n isfonp, ■< 1 tile bread,
j)nd • few glasses of uine. H.• flceps o
chairs, in his boats, and nevei more thai:
three hours during tle n'chc. By co 11i. 1113
Glf denial he iccu toined himf. If early te
rodu -e p .i-i -i-l fa;'"ue. B< ing amb tiouv
and f'uiHl .1 g! ry, he his always wither
to a£t a diltiMgnitlied part, a id in this ie
fpeet he ms been f vul.il by fortune
J'ortugal. Sinin, H llia.ul. Hrahanr, ane
Poland. It ivc afforded h m an opportutlit)
(if .1 nig himf/l ,a his life can sup
ply an i'exriau 'iS; • fund of or.'Rina!
traits, anecdotes, and adventure;. Wh
ile took command of the amy of Sedan
which La F ivetre ,'iad entirely prejudice!
again!! aim a foMier cried out " It is that
i mind • I. Qioi iting to i)uiliojirier] \\ ho \
1 : r mfe ot the war." *• Cotnrac.s (f.ii<
J) imoii'ier) del.vcr up to me t ie ma
hn rna.-|» use of that exprefli.m." Th.
i :r!icr i ei.l7 ob' ed to quit tlie rail
Dumotfriei' ad'lft-fli *1 luni as follows : " J
i 1 - -it complin »f me, aad I mud
have 1 iii;.'. I'' your are a mind;.
• ■ - ■ " 1 The general iin 1 eel i -
' t hmr : i* i , e pa'tnre of defence.
. ■- foiclier fell a his feet, Dumouriei
f 1 '"' red to return to hit poll, ani
et;- - on for him from lib comrades,
v. i>ch he obtained
-C Apr sr. Yeflerday a (liip from
Jama;.-a p ill- d through the road, the cap
ait of .vlii.cl. r/ports, that he fell in with
!<• French fleet, conliiling of 13 fail, at
th - entrance of tlve channel ; that the;
gave chace to him, but a fog coming o i he
lots lirhc of them. About seven hours as
ter, h saw the Eng ids fleet, under th.-
command of admiral Gardner, and lent If
boat on board the admiral to give nim th:
intelligence, so that r ws of the en ;ra;t
jnent between the tuo fleets may be,.our
ly cx.>e;!ed.
PARIS.
NATIONAL CONVENTION'.
Saturday April 13.
debate of some hours, a decree
tif arret! was paiiWl a.r Marat, and ;, f
committee or legiilation were ordered to
make their report on this subject oa th :
morrow.
StiMgel, Miranda, Miazinfui. and L'F.cu
ver, were delivered over to the revoluti
onary tribunal.
A letter was read from genera! "~>am
pierre, dated the 10th inllaut: —It stated.
that this army then encamoed before H"ti
chain was confiderah y weakened by t'll
diforgaaizr t:on and j>erfidions manoe- *-'*e
of Otirnonrier. He added* that the Ctfrtj
of the public depended o . its speedy re
organization, aid propof L d filling uptime
old regiments by tr:in'd v ik-'meers. who
might be replaced liy the 10.000 men ol
der#.l to be r.iifed, and bv the nationa 1
guards, who a--e in a permanent state of re
cpiiiifn. Re f erred to the committee
©•■'public fjfety.
Luttr f, o>n the \ 7 i'f?wal Commiflovtrs
' V til-mciennes, April 10.
" We inform t;;e Nationa' Convention.
that the enrmy ; r e j maki " mnvementi a-
Conrl?. They began co ibew them
)elve> veilerday in fevera) oium and ap
peared as if making preparations ior erect
ing batteries. A cannonade was kept u,
unri.i them from the town, during t ; ::
whoje night.—"l hev kindled a great man)
£ es, and we do not vet know whetiiei
their aeack is real or feint, but at present
ad communication between ihatp'ace ane
Valenciennes, is intercepted. We have
juit now received letters from citizen;
Chancel, Chef de Brigade, and Langlois,
'he temporary commandant, which an
noance tiie good jlifpolition of th/ garrison.
ard the refoliition of the brave soldier;
compose it, to defend themt'tlves lik<
true rep iblicans.
"The Audrian general sent a flan- o|
truce by an offirer to general Chaacel, t<-
ell him verbally that the emperor was clif
pofed to treat favorably all those wl«:
Jhonld acknowledge the former Frencl
coriditution. The general anf \-ered ver
bally, that he and his brave g r so 1 would
remain invariable faithful to h republic!
that they knew how to defend themselves,
and that they would live, ind if neieli'ary.
die republicans.
" A good spirit begins to be re-eflabliOi
ed among our troops, and when they are
fully undeceivrd refpect-'mg that traitor
Dumourier—when they fliall be convinieu
—cr
that tJ.e deceitful ftn<l pftfid'.otu laic of
;»£»•>•> .-•col which is htld forth to
oy a flratajrem of tyranny to fe
-1 '- sCt ' them, and again"" ftibj.'ft the nation to
I \* of tic rnoft o,lions delpotifm.
their error vt ill then b« changed into pro
io: nil inclination, and oi.r defeats intc
victories.
Second letter frem t Cornnu'JfioTiers a
I'alencietn. es.
" V ali'iuiemu s, April 11.
"Since our la-t difpatthes the army o:
the republic has undertaken n • operation.
Fhe e leiuy are be fare t ii d a'l commu
nication I), tvveen which and this place fill
rontinr-.'s to be intercepted. That be
tween Qngfnov ami Cor.de is also cut off.
general Dampierre is pii:fiirtg measures
lor re-ertablilbing the intercoilrfe.
'* 1 wo trumpets lent to general Dam
pierre by the .■ n'lri.m <:■ neral, were co
tlucted to general l'err. ,i.!, to whom the)
ilelivered an sddreis to the French, froii
i if pri ;t r ol S ixe Cobourg, and a niemo
'i il o! Dnmonrier. giv ng a deceitful ex.
lianation of the motives of hi: conduct.
It appears that our enemies are adopt
'lS a fyliem quite t/ie reve.fe of what tiie>
oi.owed lalt ) ear ; that they affeit mode
ation. ;.':e better to seduce the peoj lej anc
•re ich up respect for property, to indbu
the fanners to keep their to n at home
hat they may the mere ea(,:y tize it anc
leprf-ive us of it."
On a motion by Panton, the Cnrventior
iedared, in the name of the French pec
>le. that they would not interfere, in ait',
nanner in the government of foreign pou
i bntth it they would rather bury th "in
elves in the ruins of their exuntry. thai
utFer any foreign power to inter . re uit
:he constitution Which they wiih to forn
or themselves.
The Convention further decreed the pair
u death, again't any who Ihould propoc i
legociation with the enemy, lor the pur
joie of modelling the constitution agrten
)le to their suggestions, or recommend of
ering any terms whatever to such nation
js would not at fir it acknowledge the so
. ereignty, Unity, and iudiv ifibility of the re
public, founded upon liberty and equality
A long letter, without date orplace, w'a'
eceived from M .rat. complaini ig that thi
upporters of the ari tocr itic faction, in or
■er to <i;vert the public-attention from theii
o-'ineftion Mich the rraitor Dumourier
ud r.u:|._d him to be put in abate ofar
v t, that they might facrifice him to theii
• alfiuns.
P HI LADE L PHI A.
Wednssdav, 19.
f >11 tuving extract from the journa 1
>f captain Goffiga.i, lately from Frerirt
'1 f| 1 ; , >la, in the schooner Fair Lady, will
lo'd out to the world the charafler of r
1 ate, who is atting under a tommiffioi:
i'om the king of Qreat-Britain : —
" Sunday, April 28, 1793,
u Bei"s on my pillage from C >p? Fran
oi; to Jeremie. at 6 o'clock r. M. saw twi
h ps to the weltw ard, and a fail in Ihore
it! - its, then the Mole-Head bore N. by E.
■ ill. 8 leagues : the vefiel in Ihore gave
hace to us, and at 10 o'clock p M. cam<
tin vith lis. and lirrnga (hot at us we round
ed too ; flic proved to be the fchobnet
T)ger, from Kingflon i:; ' nfiaica, a Bri
iiii privateer,commanded by James Smith,
mounted with eight brass three pounders
uid one howit in the bow. She orderec
he boat to be hoifled out, and to come or
board, w'tich was reluctantly compliec
vvith. After examining myp ipers, he de
clined me with two ot my men, and wer.i
in board with part of his crew, ant
'Marched the vefTel, after which he tool
L ie remainder of my people except the
mate and boy, leaving four of his men anc
the feco.id lieutenant on board of the Fail
Lady, giving orders to follow him ; fhether
javechaceto the two Ihips, and findint
them to be British veiled, pursued a boa
that was sent to Jamaica to give imfoima
tion, in cafe th" privateer (honld be French,
and they should be taken, but finding hi
miftake returned to us, fearclied a fecend
time, declaring that he knew Mi,re was
French property on bo >rd. and if we would
not give it up he would carry tu ro Jamai
ca, but finding none he left us, after being
prisoners eight hours, taking two of my
ir.-.i, Jonathan Peter Patferfon, an Ame
rican, and Adolph GalTe, aS \ede, without
either bed or cloaths, except what they
had 011. notwithstanding my intreaties in
their behalf and their own did ke to his
measures, he took them off; I also repre
sented the dif. dvantages that would arise
irom it, as I had only one man left that
could {teer, but all in vain."
It m*y r.otbeamifs to observe, that theii
c ierts and bedding are still on board of the
schooner. Jt is a matter of surprize that
loch a nation as the .4mericai! . Iliould
t ii elyfufi. r our trade to be obfiructed,
and harrifl.d by a haughty imperious na
tion, and onr throats cut by their indica
tion, in the Weft'ern Territory j but it is
to be hoped that the puefent contelt with
bra.'ce w ill bring them to a proper sense
of themfelyes. a act « is reasonable to ex
pect that it that does not, the Almightv
power win,
Advices from Hifpaniola (o May 21, ad
vise, That 7 (hips of' the line, 7 frigate:
'mo ft of (hem 40 guns) with a great num
ber of tnnfports, having on board 14.0:;
troops, had arrived at the Cape from
France. Oil the 24th, three (iiips of the
line, and a 36 gun frigate, were fpoker
uith in the Hite of J,cogane, bound to Anx
ayes, with troops.
E :tm(l of a I ft em London, April 19.
" The violence done to freedom oi
! :' e "ch and opinion. in this and every part
of E gland, is beyond belief. It is per
fefWy laughable however, to hear your pnf
'• :l g bragi'. docia, " figniticant*' Englilhinen
ailing themfelvcs free, at a time \vhe
hey dare not even be seen with Paint'
Rights of man in their hands under penalty
u< t'emcr (V lt to C | le pillory, or whip
t'ing port."
the 1 4th of May several severe fliork'
>• an earthquake we.e experienced in tin
own 0/ Cape Francois, and did confidera
oie damage to the buildings.
The Cap of Liberty was lately ereffee
in the Tontine Coffee Houl'e of New-
York, by the friends to Liberty, Equality
and the Kigbts 01 M n, amid the mvnmn
tioil of their fellow ritiaens. Jt i .1 beau
nfnl crimson, , domed wi;h a \\ hire taii'el
and fhpported bv a (faff.
Captain CI ip.whn arrived at New-Yor!
<a 18 days from Aux-Cayes, inform*, th
111 coming out he fiw t»i French ships o;
the li„e, ami five l'riga:es ; tjiey had takei
t Jamaica (hipof ocon\ ha.l taken foßir.
a ><! cleared the coait of all the Kflglifi
private? rs. An E Jifn frigate of'2B gtin.;.
pi ob. bly taken, as hie wa near them.
that captain 'iugic terry, one of
Am-l ira 1, on board the privateer Ci
' — t, and confined in the j.ol of thi
virtue of c le prof'amati >n of Apr J
.:d. as being an American citzen in th<
rren !i f rvice is admitted to bail. Th
Other person comm tted on a finviar pie
by the judge of the dftria court, has be, ,
remanded from t''e debtor's to the crimi
nal department of the prison.
_ Captain Poa ce, of the Ann *nd Catha
rine, from Newry. (arrivedat New- 1 ! oris
informs that tive greatest confulion re gnei
in all the trading towns of England, tna
trade was nearly at a stand, a'fci ,fies ft
ing fearfnl of each other, owing to th
if .-It number of failures—that si merchant
.?.d 1 ai !ed in Loudon, to an amount near I ■
?qual to the w hole circulating cash in tha;
country, fay 14,000,000 sterling—That the
Da'iic of New-Cattle had Itoppi-d payment
and that 20 or 30 per Co 11s had b e:i ciofcl,
confined in Dundalk for flatting in favoul
or tne French revolution.
A fuow from this port is raptured by :
Grjtilh privateer and sent into Jamaica, <• •
Pretence (hat the snow was French pro
>ert>. The fatt is (he belongs to a Frencu
gentleman in this city, Mr. Peter Le Mai
;re, who has been a citizen of the Unite«
itates for 11 or 12 years
_ A tooth meafurin;; 14 inches in circum
erence. and a thigh bone of the length o
4 feet has befcn t'i.u Ilon a Mill in the towj,
3. Troy.New- York. The tooth is complete
ly petrified ; audit is n"t yet discovered
to what fpec.e- of anim 1 it could belong.
Ext rati of a letter from St. Mary's [ficor.
gia) late Ami May.
'• I am sorry to inform you of the tren
jles witii the Indian' 01 the frontier of tha
'rate, where a number of the inhabitant:
i:.ve been murdered. Others are entirely
3 oiicii up, and moved into the towns am.'
ullages; many have gone into South Ca
~oi 11a The militia has been ordered 011 -
Old a general al.rm given thro'the ftati
\ large body of militia are afiembled at a
.dace called Shoulder rione. in the uppe.
jart of the liate, who are determined ic
:ake fatUfaftion for their friends that hav
>een barbaraufly murdered : The 111 liti
ire commanded toy generals Twijrg unci
olnrke. This place, however, isperfeffh
ecu re at present from any attempts of the
[ iidians.
E<tra(i of n /rf'Pr from a pentleivan in thi
citv to hi{ frisiid in Alexandria, datt
1 .// June. 1 93.
'• Agreeably to my protnife, I row rakf
up my pen to give yon fmie account of the
commencement held in the univerfitv o,
I'cnnfylvania on the joth of. Mjy ultimo
lor the purpose of conferring the degree o'
Doctor on the graduates in medicine.
The hour of tfn, in the forenoon wa
fixed upon for this important business
Anxotis to fee awd remark the procedure.
I was pmic 111 I to the moment. After
w aitnig for some time, expectation on tip
toe fancied tieiy nc ife the approach of the
pro< 1 flion. A 1: in ing. milling, Imflfrr
kind of a roife at length (pretty much lik.
that of a nor-wef.er amongst me leaves in
autumn) announced the arrival of the ac
tors. The trnflees of the inftifution took
tiie lerd. 7he profeflo'rs, caparisoned in
their pontificaJibus ai-d holici.-y laces, p.p
ps-'ied and took their feats; tile graduates
followed, arrayed in tittered fable gowns.
arid were niarihallca confronting the pro
feilors.
The scene, at this ft age of the business.
had truly a ludicrous appearance. It wa l
fir more like a court of judicature than a
place where honours or titles were to be
ccnferre I; so like aufljre jtidjes did the
one party appear, and so very like accused
jferfons the other.
The cultomary exordium being over,
ench graduate produced what he called a
thesis. Nothing could be more farcical or
fc'ifgullinj, particularly as it was but too
notorious that some were attempting to
defend, as their own, productions which
they had never written. So fhamefully
proud were they ot" their cornuted brains.
Each inquisitor had his victim previously
marked out lor examination, who proved
in I/aac, or a Scape Goat in proportion to
the good underftaiiding which fublifted be
tween the parties. After some time a con
versation took place between two of the
attors, in a language I did not underfland.
inquiring of a gentleman, who fat next
me, what was now ihe matter? I was an
'rtcred, -'A Latin thefts yet I doubt
much v i ether Cicero or Tacitus, if pre
l-'nt, could underltand one word, either of
r !ie thesis or dialogue. The gentleman
deled, " The man who examines is a half
r>rof t llbr in the inft tution, and at present
in avowed enemy to Latin, altho' he avail
d himlelf ot the olsfcurity of that lan
guage. when he had o'ccafion to publilh his
>robationary thelis to the world "
The exsf/ i'latiuti bt g concluded, next
me on the bulinefs ol conferring degrees.
! hU wai ihe mofl unaccountable part of
he business, lor the procrf in the'eonrfe of
tew miniites, by an inexplicable meta
norpholis, transmuted tiine simple fouig
>e■. into as many doctors, by merely ex
ending to each a ltrip of parchr-.eni. and
uteri rig at the fame time a Latin exorcism :
he fpeil was a powerful one. The con
lufion was, however, really excellent. It
' as a charge delivered by the principal of
he inftituticn 10 the graduates, with that
>reci!ion and energy, peculiar to him felt,
i words to the following effect :
Nov Jeftor , d all—go, children of my care,
Po praiiiee Ilrait front theory repair :
\ll my commands are easy, (bort and full;
Doctors! be proud.be felhlh and—be dull.'
I o which they all bowed aflent, and de
•irted.
Qn the 7th infiant the Federal Judges at
■ ichmotid delivered their opinion upon the
/eat queltion ofßritilh debts, which was
'nnimous for the payment. Gnfiin ;nd
edell were for fnbftantiating the pay
lents of paper money into the treasury.
ay \\ as of a contrary opinion.
The legislature of New- Jersey adjourned
»n the 6tli inltartt, to meet ageiin at Tren*-
on in October in.xt.
Monday evening Mr. Blanchard enter
lamed rile citizens with a f. eoi.d ex peri -
ment of the Parachute, whicli futceeded
:o r,'ie admiration ot: II ti'e fpettator-.
The weather being wet, prevented the
•fcenlion of the balloon to the height in-,
ended, but every particular of
■iinent was effected, and the balloon ai d
•araehute fell in Arch-street, near the
Delaware, the animals coming down fafe.
Ixtrati of a letter from London, April to
'• I had the plealure of writing \ou per
yVilliam Penn, to which I refer, tier
ince. this country has been in a mofl dif--
greeable situation—owing to the war ;
here never was so many failures known
is there has been within thrfe two lad
months, and in general, houses of the firik
nagn tnde. I know one house rhat has
ailed f<i more ttian two millions—and it
s not on.y in London, but every town in
ngland. 1 Was in BriUol last* momh—
end in one day there was twenty failures.
At frit I withed the French fiiccefs, but
Jt j.relent I do not care which, so that it
V ould put an end to the war—for, i it is
ot ended ere lung, tins country w.il be
uined. At prefer.t, the mant'fatiurers
lave difchargtd fuli one half of their
vorkmen, for want of market fur the ir
roods.
As several reports have been circulated
'clati-e to the J'Ambuieade irigate, and
he caiife i f her putting into New- \ oik,
tve think proper to mention, from good
iiithnriiy. that it was the intention of (Jap
an Bomprid. previous to failing from the
)elaware, to put into New-lork for
shat purpose we pretend rot to fay ; and
nlea\iiij this city he gave directions to
us correspondent to so; ward his letters
hither, intending to be there within 15
.lays from his departure.
Philadelphia, June r;. lyoi.
On F iv 1 1) A Y the 28th inft ant,
at 5 o'cloek P M.
Will be Sold at Public Auflion,
At,l. Bailey's, No. i 16, High-iireet,
All ihe
PRINTING MATERIALS
nfTHwMAS I.ANG, late dee eased, con
liflirg ol the following articles, viz.
One Printing-Prcfs, with a Bank, Boards,
kc. five Chafes; one Imp-ling Stone ai d
with Drawers; two Cafe Frames j
Gallies ; three Com poling Sticks:
thirteen pair of Cases.
T Y PES.
One Fount of Paragon, about folb.
One Do. ot Pica, about 500.b.
One Do. of Bnrgeois face on a Lone
Primer body, about ?oolb. &
FRANCiS BAILFV. 7
SAMUEL WETHEREL, J Exc cutors.PKO3ATIONARY
O D F. IV.
To a wouM be Great Man.
Jon \than defendeth the great DEFEN
DER ; marnifietli and ex-i'teth his
i'/orh, and confellith his own littlenefa
of an erftandiag.
'*■ Certat ttrgemims tolfcre hononbus."— Hop
DADDY Vicr, DaJdy vice,
Ont* na\ fee i n a fries
j lie drift your fine puolication I
Ah sure as a gun,
Th- thi-ig wjsjuft done
To iccuie ytju—afretry high station*
Defences you (w!l
To'fcHock. down our wall,
And batter the States to the ground, fir ;
So thick were your ih*t,
Aod ftj h-ltlh' lire hot,
T cy've fckice a whole bone to be found, fir,
When vou tell u<- p»f kings
Andioth pretty things,
Good'mercy ' how brilliant you- pnge is!
So br'ghr n eat?» l»rtr«
I vow p->w y ou'is ihi'»e
Lke a • ,w- worm> o all future 2ges.
When you handle 5 >o r balacce,
So valt are your talen
Like Ar'as your fttcflg'h is
You Jtftt w'cver\ state
To a bs r\ - corn's we ght,
For your ii.el-yard tht continent'. length Is.
On Efav'-la's rape
Your cji(• urles To sage
D mocrcisa! >umfculls bepuzzle,
VV fh arguments tough
As wh't-Uatlher or buff,
The republican Bull D»gs to muzzle.
*Tis labour in v?'n
Your ferles to drain
Our brains anv longer to muddle j
Like Collossus, you Itiide
O'er cur noddles so wide,
Wc look-up like Fhogs in a puddle.
tn «• ' ~
T rm ■ ■
From the Richmond and Manahefter Ad
Tertifer.
J PROBLEM for the folul'ion of the Fra
ternity of Paper Holders.
ON the 4th of August 1790. the fur
plus of the prodr.fts of all domelli.
jefources to the end cf that year, after fa
tisfying previous appropriation?, was ex
p' fslv appropriated to the putchafe of th.
public debt. This furphis vroved to be
1 --4 650<10U 40 c's. of which film toge
ther with the interest falling due from tim<
to lime u,.on the principal of the debt pur
c' .fed, there remained uninvested at the
■ end of the year i 792, 416,855 dol.s. ant
75 c n^*
There has bten drawn from Holland o:
the monies borrowed there, from the 15^»
of December 1790 to th- end of the ycai
j I v mens of a£lual bihs, the sum 01
2,305 769 itols. 15 CC..-.S, of which film,
after did ' Un/ 917 316 d " K 2 3 cents, foi
payments to' St. D.i u-<o t.nd to foreign
cjf.ctrs, t- ere as t ' le ' ' dK
yen J"9i, 1.388.4 2 <'ola. 23 ccr.t , ('<
u se tKe »r. r .:b o th? Sectary of the
Tieafury) " appl'c !e 10 the purclnfe o
the puM'.c d/o- 639 -T+ - ols 34
of the princi, »I borrowed v ioad h..vinj;
been applied t]> re to the payment of in
terefl faiiir" u i .pon that pri "p
•in the S cr.taty's own w.-r ls) " are to be
confi ered in the fame as il they ha<!
been traneferred here by drafts," " provi
Con having been made for paying this in
tereftout of doimftic resources."
Dols. Cts.
C Balance of do
-416,885. 75 -< mtftic funds
i uninvested.
f Direftlydrawr
3,388,452. 23 | hy bills.
[Indiredlly
drawn by fub
fl.itution of so
659,874. 34 •{ reign principal
'Thcfe three I to pay interefl
films added I in relief of do
together I medic funds.
make the
total 2,465,212.32
This total condituted the ability of the
finking fund at the end of the year 1792.
From this total, deduct 284,901 dols,
89 cents, invefled or directed to be inverted
in the purchase of the debt from the end
of the year 1792, to the 15th of February
1793, and 2C0,000 dols. taken therefrom
bv law and applied to the reimbursement
of the full inllalment due to tiie bank ol
the Vnittd States.
D )ls. Cts.
flnveded si .t
284,901 89 < he end 1
t-7 92-
(" '\p ed to
he reimbnrfe
rnent of the
200,000 <[ fr'H intlai
j ment due to
I the bank of
(_the U. States-
Amount to
be deduited 484901.89
Deduct this amount from the gross to
tal of the finking fund at the end of 1792
D.>!s. Cts.
2,465.212. 32
484,^01. 89
Balance 1,980,310.43
Frrvn this calculation 1,980,3'° dels. 43
cents fhoul 1 hive been the real balance of
cash in t!ie linking f.ind on 15th of Fe
bruary I 793, but as some unafcertaineo ad
ditions are to be made to the monies indi
reflly t ravrn hither, as slated by the Se
cretary in his report of the 15th leb
179',, and as the linking fund is continu
ally increasing by means of the interrft
falling due upon the principal of the debt
purchased, it may with fafety be a'Xerted
that the capacity of the finking fund from
the 15th of February 17 3to the present
time, Ihould be at leall equal to 2;003, 000
dols. in actual cash.
It will be recolletfted that the sum of
416,885 dols. 75 cents, iscompofed of the
domeflic revenue preceding the end of i~yo,
and of course mull have been received in
cash previously to this time— I hat the fu u
of 1,388,452 dols. 23 r ents, is composed
of tlie fale3 of bills upon fhr.rt credits from
the I ;th December 1790 ta the end ofthe
y.ar 1792, and of course mud have been
received in cash previously to this time—
That the sum of 659,874 do's 34 c> nts, is
compolcd of the appropriations fur the
payment of the inter.it on the domellic
leht, which were received for so much by
the fubllitution of the principal borrowed
abroad ir. their Head, and it is ita I .ed !>v
the Secretary that of t ofe appropriation;
there remained unexpended 0:1 the 14th ol
February 1793, the sum of 1,395,
65 cents, end of course this lund cannot
be deficient of cash.
This flatement is taken from the report:
of the Secretary of the Treasury, and is
vouched to be corredtly taken ; and theft
fevcral futr.s are 11 ted by h'rn to be charg
able upon the sum of 5,114,696 do!s. 5c
cents, being the gross amount of all mo
nies and revenues on hand at the end ol
179 a.
The commifiioners for ptirchafing the
public debt are authorized by law to in veil
this enormous sum of 2,000,c00 d®!s. in thf
purchase of llx per certs at twenty ihiilingt
(i the p .und, and it was recommended by
ihe Secretary of the Treasury during thi
\ijl fejjion of Congress, that their difevetio
Ihould be extended to the invelli'.tue of tV.is
fund at a rate as high as twenty-two [hi
lings and fixpencc in the pound.—Six pc>
cents are now at lixteen fbillings in the
pound, and other species of paper relative
ly li»w, and no ingenuity or labor of ours
has been able to raise the price of them.
From this flatement of fails car.did re
sponses are requefled to the following
quefllons.
Whether the l'nvcfliture of 2,cro,occ
of dollars in the purchase of the public
debt, would not without a competition,
r.bforb ail the paper actually afloat in ths
markets of New-York, and
801 l on ?
Whether the deH would not be brought
up at lealt to its par value by evidencing
an ability to make such invelliture ?
Whether the public interest does not
call aloud for such an invelliture while the
debt remains under par ?
What are the various causes of this la
mentable effedt, the lou pr ice cf paper, il
there be not " fotr.ething rotten in the
Hate of Denmark."
When thefa interefling qneftiors are
candidly and fatisfaftorily answered, some
further propositions will be presented
equally interelling to the commnnitv in
general, and to the brotherhood in parti
cular.
UNUS FRATRUM.
Richmond, June I, 1793.
T'lIS D"Y IS PUBLISHED,
BY MATHEW CAREY
N>. 118, M kct-Strt^t,
-n b' 1 ' 'ie.i with aM.tP of Soath Am f ric:
.u.VI Of 1 NiW SYSTEM OF MODERN
GEOGRAPHY.
■'JR, A G I jGRA\PHiCAL, HISTORICAL
AND COMMERCIAL GRAMMAR;
".ad urrli- >t State of 'lie Several
KINGDOMS OF THE WORLD.
CON TAINING
[. The figures, motions, and uiftances of the p!a
nets, according to the Newtonian fyftcm an .
the latelt oblervations.
il. A general view of the earth confiJereJ as 3
planet ; with several ufeful geographical defi
nitions and problems.
111. The grand division of the globe into lane
and water, continents and illands.
IV. The 'ituatior# and extent of crapireSj king
doms, llates, provinces, and colonies.
V. Their climates, air, foil, vegetable producti
ons, metals, minerals, natural-cufiofit.es, fca.
rivers, bays, capes, promontories» and lak.es*
VI. The biros and bealtspeculiar to eac.i coiwv.r.
VII. Observations on the change: that have ber
any where observed upon the Jace ot natu.
since the most early periods of hiltory.
VIII. The history and origin of nations ; th<*
forms of government, religion, laws, leviinue:
taxes, naval and military rtrength.
.X. The genius, manners, cultvms, and habit
of the peosle.
X.. Their language, learning, arts, sciences, ma
nufattures, and commerce.
JCI. The ch-ef cities, ftiuttures, ruins, and a -
rrficia* curiosities.
Iv'll. The longitude, latitude, bearings, and d':-
tances of the principal places from Philadelphia.
TO WHICH ARE A DPBD.
[, A Geographical Index, witn the names, an.
places alphabetically arranged.
11. A.Tn&le or r iie Coins of ail Nations, and the
value in EngliJh Money.
ill. A Chronological Table of remarkable event*
from the Creation to the prcfent 1 tine.
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, F.fq.
HhftAltronomical i'art by James Fergufon> .RS
To lubicb have been added,
she lartc Diicoveries Qf Dr. Heifchel, and othe
eminent Aflronomers.
The fi'Jl American edition, corretled, improved
and greatly enlarged.
The piftliflier of this work, thankful for rb* pat
rortjgtf with which he has been konored, fufc
xr-irs the prefeot number to the inipe&ioo n.
h,g iel,ow-cir'.zen», and la>* before thein
The terms ol publication .
I. This geography (bail b>: publu'ncd in fort'
C'ght weekiy numbers, each containing t»»w.-
y-four pages of ktter prels.
11/ In 6he courfc of the publication will be de
ivered the following maps :
f The world. 2. Europe. 3. Sweden, Den
maik, Norway, and binland. 4. R-ulfia. 5
Scotland. 6. England and \«aL". 7* lielana.
>. France. 9. Seven United Provinces. JO. Aj
r l:ian and French NetherUnds. 11. Germany.
;1. Switzerland. 13. Poland. 14. Spain am
Portugal. 15. Italy- '(>■ Turkey in Europ.-.
[7. Afl.l. I'd. China. 19. Hindoilja. 20. At
ica. 21. North America. 22. Biitifli Arnc
icj. 23. Weft-Indies. 24. South Amorica
15. Plani'p'neie of '.lie emu. *20. C.'ountrie
ound the north pule. *27* Dilcoveriei maJt
-v Captains Coolte and Gierke. *28. Ne*-
liamplhire. *2(). Malfjchulctts. ''30. Con.
Pc£ticut. *31. Rhode Hlani. *32. Vermom.
033. New-York. *34* New-jerfey. *35
•ennfylvania and Delaware. *36. ilrryland.
'37- Virginia. *38. North Carolina.
South- Carolina. *40. Georgia. *4'- '1 ••
S here. *42. The C pernican system.
N. B. All the maps marked with Cars zrr
idded to this edition, exciulive ol thofc in tt.<
'ast London edition.
That no disappointment may atife from sub
tcrrbers exoefling what the puolilh;r neither pr
mifes nor is able to perform, he gives this earl
k explicit notice, that to lome of the Stales it w'l,l
bennpolllble tor him t« give maps fully accuta 'r
r.o late surveys having betn made ; and it is hai..
> neceflary to observe, that it falls not withi
his plan to go to the exrer.fe of lurveys. But ,
-very inflance, he will avail hin.lelf of the brj
materials extant-, a d such corrcflions and ad
nuns as his utmolt exeitions can piocute, Ihai
made.
111. The geoj'-aphy of the United Srat<*s is un
dertaken by'gentlemen of literary abilities,
have engaged to give a more full and (atUf-.fK
ry account ol it than any ever publillied. J
will extend to 250 or 300 psges, althou, h 1
the Britifii edition, and even in that ol 1 ;92,
it makes only about 30.
IV. Shcu'd the work exceed forty-eigbt num
bers, the furpluft will be delivered gravis to tht
fub<cribers.
V. The p ice of each number will be a quartei
dollar, to be paid on delivery.
VI. Such fuLkribers as do not choose to recer.f
the woik in numbers, are to pay three dollar
at the time of fubferibing.
The printer, anxious to render this work a
neifctf as the nature of it will allow, most ear
.Kftlv I,sueft", that such gentlemen. ii.rou ? h. ? .
the United States, as have it in their power, will
furnilh him with documents for correcting tn.
er.ors in the geography of America, and loi
fuiniftiing a more complete fylienr o geograp )
thus has yet appeared. .
r l he title page, lift of fubfenber'j names, with
the account of the Newtonian system, &c. &;c.
will be given in the 47th and 4S:h numbe.t.
N. B. The fubfcritrers, and j-uU!ic in ge
neral are requeued to conlidcr the tallowing vv-r;
material circumltance—'l he London quarto edi
tion is fold here, for fifteen dollars, although it
contains eniy 25 maps and fia.es, and ..I ;:.e t <».
graphy ot the United States, as has been observed
above, only about 30 pages—whereas, Carey',
edition will coklaitl 42 maps and plates, and h^ve
two hundred pager of letter piefi mtiie. And it
need not be observed, that the seventeen rnsns to
£ad ied, are of muie importance to Aracric*
Sy far, than the 25 London ones. The ob 3. va
,)n will apply with equal force to th* letter pref3
additions.
The maps will be pcbliinr-J H f«ich order of
"iCceiTjon as they are e/rjravei, and directions will
,b'e printed for the proper manner of placing them
>y the bookbinder.
May 21.
"TO~BE~rented,
And pofTefiion pivm in July neiC.
A Merchant M I L Ly
A L c .O, a COUNTRY and a SAW MILL,
± 3k eitner separately or toge her, with all th<*
coiiveriiencies thereunto belonging* cor.filiing of a
t»->od framed dwelling h »use > llore houfc; granary,
'J jopers ihop, ftahlc?, &c. all in perfect good or
der an.l almost new, ficutr* in a fine wheat
Li f, on a constant and plentiful stream of watc»>
. t 1 he head of a navigable crrck, c ailed Mifiipi'ion*
!<rm whence the (hallops tranft»ort Aout to P/»i'a
leiphia without any trouble to the miller, and 2<3-*
uining a flomi thing village that alwa)S a'.T«>rds a.
v ready tale f»r the offal of the merchant m'f,,
l-id an abundance of custom to the cuuntry aid.
aw mill?. Those advantages render rhefe mi if*
'nferior to none in this country; and the fituatxa
For a ttorre is equal t ; any in the tlate Tne
Merchant mill is three stories high with two pair
it burr iisnes, double gear'd, a rolling fcreene and
f ann that cleans wheat into both hoppers, two
b .ting chsfls. and a machine for hoifiing that goes
b/ water. This mill manufactures principally
luper fine flour, that is much efteerr.ed as such in
Philadelphia. For terms apply to Robert Lewis.
and C>». merchants in Philadelphia, or the fub
icribeis near the premises.
FLJZAEZTH THORNE,
PETER CAVERLY.
Milford, Kent Count), State ofDel-ware.
May 1, J 793 - aw tf
IKave claims to about two hundred and
fifty thouland acrcs of LANu ia tne itate of
Kentucky, in oiffe.'eot parts of that count:-.,
.me of which 1 l:now to be equal to anv •, ail
f yw-Jich 1 am inclined to dispose of, cither by
entire fele, or hy admitting one, or two partners,
to whom the agency on the whole will be com
mitted*
One fourth of the contra£t will be required \n
a-nd, either in cash, merchandise, vr such all • &
as may converted to atfive use,, the rcfidue
iav be apportioned in convenient tnlla ments.
Tne purchaicrs t > give fecucity, <-n tike land #
r otherwass.as fairs ti.em.
Knowing that.there is a urfjudce a,ia'nft the
titles of lan-i in that tta t, whit is more general
han juit, lam v»ii i:>g to liipulate in rip con
natl, ihst « difcoun-, or drdudi -n, (hall be
nade, where an> land ma> be lolt, by realon ©1 a
lefeCtive title.
Any person inclining to such a purchase, is re
jueiled to write to rot by poll, in answer to
whom, uiore particular ' p formation w«U be s iven-
U E NRT BANKS.
P.J'-h'POPrl i"' «r«*h *Oy 1793. 2aw td.
jUif PI ! LISHh D,
And to befulil by f uomas DobsoN- Wil
liam \ oi'Nfr, Robert Campbell-
Melirs. Rice and Go. and JoxiN M'
Culloch, No. 1. North Thirc-ftreet, -
A N EXAMINATION of the late pro
cefetlings in refpecling the
official couduft of t ie Secretary of the
Treafnry ; with Observations, &c. on the
application of loans from Holl-nd, negoti
ated under the acts of the 4th and 12th ef
Augult 1790 —The price of the above
pamphlet is three sixteenths of a dollar, or
is 4d. 1-2. April 24. 2aw tf
'JUST PUBLISHED,
[Price one quarter of a dollar J
TH F
LAWS
UNITED STATES,
PalTcd at the Hit S of Congress, wiiich
comjrlete vol. 11.
PuUli/htd by Authority.
A Cnmplftc INDEX is adJed for th; rolu-ne
Philadelphia—P nTcd by. Childs :■} i.v*in E
Primers of the Laws of the United States ; and
/old by them at their Office No 209. Ma ket
Street: also by the principai BaokieiierSj where
vol. I. is to be had.
A FE V COPIES OF THE
TRANSACTIONS
Of the Society in/fituind in the State of
New-York, for the promotion of
\GIvICULTUiiE, ARTS, aai MANU
FACTURES,
May be had at this Office.
[Price half a bwlAr.]
JUST PUB LI SHE D, I
Anil to'Ve fold at the refpeflive Book Storitof
JcJipb Cruhjbarik and Ib'.mai Dob/on, and mas
I - r.id at the "Printing office, No. acg. Mar
ket-Street. f Prirf ore eighth cf a ddlar.]
L E T T E R S,
to the VeoMANRY of the
United States:
Containing foiue on Funding
and BiU.k Sj/ietw.
By an AWfciUCAiM FARMER
PRINTED Blf
CIIILDS and SWA IN E.
AT THEIR OFFICE NO . Z')C), HI C H-S TR KK T ,
f IT,
tHILA*4~rH I At