[N UMB. 26 of Vol. ll.] SATURDAY, January 26, 1793.
BYE LAW'S,agreed upon by the Truflees
of the Young Ladies' Academy of Phila
delphia.
'pHE slated meetings 9f the Truf
-1 ' tees lhall be on thefecond Mon
day in every June, September,
and March, at 7 o'clock. P. M. Belidesthefe
meetings, the Prelidenr, or in his ablence
or ludifpofition, the Vice-Preiident, lhall
have power to call extraordinary meetings,
whenever important or unexpected buli
nefs lhall require, of which he fliall be the
judge. He lhall likewise call such meet
ings whenever three of the trustees deiire
him, giving legal notice to all the trullees
thereof; but if it lhould so happen, that
e President and Vice-Prelident lhould be
. bfent,- or refufe calling such meetings,
then ic lhall be in the po,ver of any three
of the truflees so to do.
2d. Public examinations of the scholars,
fliall be held at least twice a year, which
lhall begin at the hour appointed, if one
Truitev, more th ul the Principal be then
pref .it, and public commencements for
conferring diplomas so often as the pro
gress of the scholars lhall make neceflary,
at such time and place a> a board of Trus
tees may agree upon from time to time.
3d. Premiums lhall be adjudged to, and
conferred upon the befl proficients in each
class for t'nofe branches of learning, which
are taught in this academy, and the person
receivi.i.; a premium at one examination,
fliall not receive any at the next fucoeed
ing examination for the fame branch of
fludy, provided Ihe lhould contiitue in the
fame class, even though ihe lhould greatly
excell. Butin cafe of her removal to any
higher class, Ihe fliallo.l excelling, though
in the fame branch, be entitled to a pre
mium ; the parents or guardians of such
fuccefsful pupils to repay the Principal for
the premiums, which to them individually
will be light, and the trustees flatter them
selves will be readily complied with, in as
much as honor is the objetl fought after,
and not profit.
4. When books (hall be conferred as
premiums, the following certificate lhall
be inserted in each.
This book was adjudged and publicly
presented by the Trustees of the Young
Ladies' Academy of Philadelphia, 011
the day of ■ 17 —■ to Mist
, of the class, as a premium for
her excellence in
By order of the Truflees,
• President.
Attefl Secretary.
sth. Each pupil who may be entitled to
a premium for writing, fliall produce only
one piece for the examination of the Trus
tees who may be present, omitting the
name of the candidate and substituting a
mark in the room thereof, by which the
name may be known by the Principal.
6th. Every pupil upon finilhing her edu
cation in this seminary, (provided the has
been a student three months therein) lhall
be entitled to a diploma if Ihe is found to
merit it upon due examination, to be con
duced by the principal and at least four o
ther truflees ; all of whom are to be noti
fied to attend at lead three days before the
time appointed for commencing the exa
mi nation—if the foholar orfcholarsfo exa
mined ar.e found to poiTefs a competent
k of the several branches of learn
ing taught in this academy, viz. spelling,
reading, writing, grammar, arithmetic,
and geography, it fliall be so certified in the
diplomi, to be ligned by the Prelident,
Vice-President, Principal, and Secretary,
as an evidence of the attention and progress
of the pupil, in nfeful learning, and as a
lading tefliinony of her merit.
7th. Three quarters of an hour in each
and every school day lhall be allowed to
teach the German language grammatically,
so as the fame does not interfere with the
other lludies of the academy ; and the
principal will provide a teacher as soon as
at leatl twenty-five of the pupils may de
sire the fame, and he can agree with the
parents or guardians of fuch,for a compen
sation equal to his expences on that ac
count.
Bth. The following (hall be the device of
the seal to be used by the corporation, viz.
A representation of fix books piled upon
one another with the fun of science dilfu
fing rays of light over them ; on the low
cll or firft book fliall be the word spelling,
on the second, reading, third, writing,
fourth, grammar, fifth, arithmetic, lixth,
geography, motto, " The path of science,"
and round the border " Seal of the Young
Ladies Academy of Philadelphia," an im
preffioii of which fliall be affixed to all di
By P. FRENEAU: Publijlied. Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
plomas, and such other of the tranfaclions
of the trullees as they may order from
time to time.
The following is the form of the Diplo
ma agreed upon by the truflees, viz.
The trustees of the Young Ladies Aca
demy of Philadelphia, having carefully ex
amined Miss inlpeiii.ig, read
ing, writing, Enclifh grafnmar, arithmetic,
and geography 0 v> here oy make kno sv 11,
that Ihe is well acquainted with those
branches ofliterature : and at apubliccom
mencement hath been admitted to the
highefl honours of the iullitution. Deli
rous therefore of perpetuating the tefliiuo
ny of her merit ; they have, in conformi
ty to the charter and rules of the said aca
demy, caused the seal of their corporation
to be annexed to this diploma, and the
fame to be wituefTed by the proper oiiicers.
Conferred this day of in
the year of our Lord
N. B- Nine young ladies have been ho
noured with a diploma each, which were
conferred upon them at a public commence
ment held in June la.fl.
OOTJ—»»!■ '
Curfary obfervatiou on the pernicious
te lie icy of borrowing miney in Europe.
("Fro n The Cri'-i, a publication in the
Boflon Independent Chronicle.]
( Continued from our lafl. )
r>Y becoming debtors to Europeans, all
commercial reflriftions which we mly
wi.li to impose on them, may be counter
acted. During the war, the French had
it in contemplation, to fell the debt of the
United States. Should England purchase
of the creditors of Antwerp and Alll
- the debt of the United States,
their demand might be so precipitate as to
place us in a very disagreeable situation.—
Should we not immediately comply with
their demands, it might be attended with
very alarming; consequences By their
haughty threats, we might be placed in a
predicament, either to relent their inso
lence, by not complying with their requi
litions, or be obliged to discharge them to
the utniofl farthing. We therefore, by
our wanton contrails, expose ourselves to
become the sport of ambitious monarchs,
enterprizing miaifters, and venal parlia
ments.
Upon the principle, that foreigners can
not pofl'efs real eflate, it appears highly
absurd and illegal that loans lhould be had
in EuVope, for in this instance, govern
ment may invert foreigners with a large
proportion of the whole property of the
United States.
Difficulty in obtaining money for public
pnrpofes is the bed security for a proper
and frugat use of it. While loans can be
obtained w : th facility in Europe " the peo
ple" may be kept ignorant not only ui the
term 3, but the appropriation; while the
head of a department can negociate the
loan of millions, and mortgage the whole
country for payment, we are fubjeel to in
numerable inconveniencies, arising from
the vanity, ambition and interell of a few
individuals. Indian wars and every other
evil may originate, provided the heads of
departments are able to draw the money
from foreigners, rather than from the ci
tizens. Should this mode be adopted we
may in time expect to be cursed with II
the vile praflices and impositions of British
financiering, and the budget of an Amcri
can miniflry, like that of a British, m y
deceive the people by afalfe detail of reve
nues, and a mystical flatement of visionary
calculations.
Provided we transfer our debt to Euro
peans, it may become at some future pe
riod, by the management of an artful fi
nancier, an apology for more extenlive
taxation. It will!hen be only neceffarv
to urge the demand of European creditors,
to augment our taxes, and a very plausi
ble plea will then be made, that unless we
immediately comply, we may bring our
selves into difficulties, and perhaps a war.
The heads of departments will be ever
introducing European loans, as ghofls to
haunt us in all our public measures, and
deliberations They will be powerful in
flruments in the hands of men who are
in favour of introducing European systems
of government. Also to certain specula
ting individuals among ourselves, who will
be ever studious to propagate to
render the public funds a continual source
offraud and speculation. Every veflel ar
riving, will bring letters of some horrid
(iifaflers among the powers of Europe, and
our flocks will be conflantly fluctuating on
the conjectures and innuendoes fabricated
at 3000 miles diltance.
Our wharves, and even oar harbours
would be crouded with picarooning spe
culators, watching to catch the fir it Eu
ropean intelligence, and letters froin con
fidential friends in London, would be the
thermometer to ascertain the funds of the
JniteJ States. A lituxuon uifgraceful to
our riling government.
The people are-often amused with the
overplus of revenue, and yet we are cou
ftantly borrowing money in Europe ;
provided we continue this practice, the
United States will be i.i a few years
involved in dark myfterioua money
schemes, and the merchants and every class
of citizens will be groping in the dark to
unravel the intricacy, perplexity, and ec
centricity of financiering reports, calcula
ted to aii:t negjciators to defraud every
honelt maa in l'ociety. Ta>c after tax will
then be laid, the appropriation of which
will be totally inveloped in the arcana ot
foreign loans;. we may be conflantly
plunging ourselves in debt, and know nei
ther rue amount, terms, or period of pay
ment, till the mandate of l'ome domineer
ing monarch, discloses to us tHe fatal scroll.
Up'jn the whole, the perplexing fyltems
of financiering hitherto adopted and re
commended, however well disposed the
author or authors of them may be, seem
calculated for uie/i/e benefit of one par
ticular class of citizens, without paying the
proper regard to their operation upon the
political interetts of the country, its coin
mcrce, manufactures, and agriculture.—
Six per cents. 3 per cents, and deterred
tVock, are the legible stamps upon all our
liieafures; these are the standards by
which the patriotifin of individuals is deci
ded. These are the scales by which each
citizen is weighed, however conspicuous
he might have been in thole day» which
tried (not only thepurjes) but the touls of
men.
.Every man who is not within the focus
of this funding influence is Anathematized
by persons, whose public exertions never
appeared in any other initance,than in their
readiness to monopolize the loaves and
fifhes.of government.
Theintereft of this country i-s brought
to a few " plain, praitical and an adorn
ed" points, which are, to leifen annually,
the public debts, if there is any overplus
fortlie purpofe —to cftablilh peace with the
Indians—to discharge all fuperniiinerary
officers, particularly in the war depart
ment—to lower throughout every depart
ment the pay of those that are ueceffary—
to break off all money connections in Eu
rope —to extend our commerce by eifectu
al navigation laws —support our manufac
tures —encourage agriculture, and parti
cularly to lay a competent duty on transfers
and discounts at the National Hank. These
are the Mential objects that demand the
attention of Congress. Long speeches on
thfcfe subjects are worthy the notice of the
public, but declamations 011 references,
See. are too futile for the coiHideration of
the Federal Legislature, or for the peru
sal of » The People."
To conclude, the whole art of finan
ciering, now coiififts in arranging our ex
penditures on the principles of oecouomy ;
our revenue beingfully fufficient for every
purpose of government, provided it is not
laviihed among officers, who do not earn,
either by their attention or ability, one
quarter of their annual salaries.
A REPUBLICAN.
Boston, Jan. 10.
1
(CINCINNATUS, Continued.)
From the General Advertijer, of Jan. 14-
To the Viftorfovis and Patriotic Officers cf
the French army.
[HAVE unfuccefsfully advocated the
* cause of a disbanded patriotic army
whose services, fufferings, and facrifices
for eight long years terminated in the li
berty and independence of their country,
who modestly retired from the field ti lilt
ing to the honour and faith of their coun
try for the pecuniary pittance due them lor
their glorious atchievments ; how will you
be afloniflied, and how much will you exe
crate a government that for ten long ye;<rs
could fuffer such men to struggle with the
pinching horrors of poverty, the trem
bling pains of nakedness, the con
temptuous smile of arrogance, and the
difdainful frown of oppression, and ltill
[Total No. 130.]
more will your aftonifliment encreafe when
you hear that these men have at length
presented themselves before the rulers of
the republic, alked only the sixth part of
their (tipulated dues, when inltead of pay
/they get contumely and contempt —and are
told—you have gained honour, go, feed
and clothe yourselves with that : They will
do it, the community will furnifti the fuel
| nocellary to cook it with—and government
the trimmings proper to make it up. Pu
nic faith has been for many years proverbi
al, it will now be forgotten, for the more
infamous new one.
Permit me now, Mes Enfant, as you re
gard the honour of your country, to in
treat you not to trust futurity to reward
your services ; you are the guardians ofher
honour as well as of your own ; the Ame
ricana fide; may be fond of travelling if
you encourage her. You have added a su
perb dome to the temple of fame, but be
cautious how you fuffer Dumourier, by
flattering his vanity, to believe that he
ought to be the weather cock of it ; for
commanders in chief have generally afi'u
rance enough to ascribe to their own pru
dence, valour, and conduit, the success of
all the enterprizes which accident may
throw in the way of an army : In all fuc
cefsful efforts they deserve a confidemble
portion of glory, but not such an exclusive
monopoly of it as they generally take ;
such for isfiance as, Cromwell beat the
royal army and established a common
wealth, Waihington took Cornwallis and
ellabliihed the freedom of America, Du
mourier drove Brunfwick out of France,
&c. for if Crom%vell, Waihington, or Du
mourier had never existed, England would
have been a commonwealth, America
would have been free, and Brunfwick
would have run away to Germany. If
Dumourier be poflelfed of a diltaut kind of
prudence he may poflibly polfefs your at
tachment and friendlhip, but beware how
you bedaub him with fulfome flattery, for
he will assume a faftidious defpicabie royal
pomp and parade, and itrfblently treat with
contempt and neglect the men whose ser
vices fliall place him on the pinnacle of
fame, particularly if he ever Ihould become
President of France without a competitor ;
of all misfortunes this is mod to be depre
cated, for it is unfalutary, dangerous to,
and inconsistent with the principles andfpi
rit of liberty and republicanilin to inculcate
and encourage in the people an idea,
that their welfare, fafety and glory depend
on any one man.
If the National Convention after yotit'
services are no longer wanted, (hould think
of dilbanding you without yjjur pay, tell
them that you have given your country
substantial benefits, which mult be reward
ed with something more than visionary
pay ; tell them that your strength fliall not
be diflipated by division, that your swords
which have been the inltruments add com
panions of your glory lhall neves be taken
from your fides until your services are re
munerated ; tell them that you will never
consent to be the only fulferers by the revo
lution, and by retiring from the field to
grow old in poverty, wretchedneft and
contempt ; tell them that you will never
consent to waale through the vile mire of
dependency, and owe the miserable rem
nant of that life to charit.y which ha;, hi
therto been spent in honour. If your
commander in chief be a man of duplicity
and fliall think it worth his while'to tread
on your diftreifes to ra-ife him one step
higher in the ladder of fame, he will con
vene you together and like a sniveling boy,
will fay to you, affecting to open the aque
ous outlet of his watry humours, " let me
intreat of you gentlemen, not to take any
measures, which will lelfen the dignity and
fully the glory you have hitherto maintain
ed. Let me request you to rely on the
plighted faith of your country, and place a
full confidence in the intentions of the Na
tional Convention, that previous to your
difiolution as an army they will cause all
your accounts to be liquidated, that the'v
will adopt the tnoft efFeftnal measures to
render ample juflice to you for your faith
ful and meritorious services. And lot me
conjure you in the np.me of Our common
country, as you value your ownfacred ho
nor, a:, you refpeft the rights of humanity,
and as you regard the military and national
charafler of France'. to express your horror
and detestation of the man who thinks o
therwise. By thus determining and thtls
acting you will pnrfue the plain and direst
road to the attainment of your wishes ; you
will defeat the insidious designs of our ene
mies, who are compelled to retort from openforce to secret artifice, you will give one
more iliftinguifhed proof of unexampled
patriotism and patient virtue rising superi
or to the prefiure of the moll complicated
fufferings, and poderity will have reason
to fay, had this day been wanting, the
world had never lee n thclaft irage of perfec
tion* to which human nature is capable
of attaining.
The tears of the hysna or the cries of
the crocodile are less dangerous than the
voice of duplicity. After Dumourier has
become your president, you will find the
•whole of his speech to be a deceptive pro
pofition—for probably one of his aids-de
funp will be made secretary of the trea
fi.'.-y who, together with his principal,
w; ' always be able, by hopes and promi
f ! icra ve fpaculations and bank don
c "i fecur» i majority in the conven
t" v v houeft men, who are above
i ieil i moderations, will now and then
: tte the jufticc of the army claims,
I ' majority, who are the mere auto
.... on:: or puppets of the farce, will have
th motio.-.sfo well regulated by the chirf
ji: ; '<v!er behind the scenes, that the attempt
will be fruitiefs. You may be relieved pof
f .>ly 'iy changing your governors ; if that
be imp - icticable.your only remedy will be
in aiot'ier revolution, which will be natu
ral a->d illilifiable for you to wish for, and
end-avour to bring about by any means
v 'merer; for republicans that have been
0,-ipp 'd of tfieir rights, will never lick the
lis that robs them. A government of
favoritifin can exid but a very little while.
The ba'isof republican government is
public opinion, n basis whose foundation is
f vndv ; if therefore the column to be erec
ted on it. which ought to support equal
a id fnbrtantial jndice, be not perfectly e
qliipoized, it will fall and crulh to atoms,
those who mall have dared to undermine
its foundation.
CINCINNATUS.
Jan. 2t.
* The word duplicity would have filled
here much better, as hitlory will relate,
the curious are referred to certain anony
mous letters, a speech, &c. at Newbu rgl
in 1783.
For the National Gazette.
Rhmarks on the Indian War.
[Continued from No. 128 of this paper. ]
IN my last, I mentioned some causes of
the Indian War. with an intimation
that there were others which should be
considered. It is common for man to judge
of men according to his knowledge. This
is gained bv observation or reflection. Pur
suing this line, men are frequently mifta-
by judging of nation* with whom
they are not acquainted, by supposing them
~!'efled of the fame qualities as their
neighbours. No people are more liable to
impoiitionfc on this fubjeft,'than those ot
a honed or humane difpolition. Such
people think Indians as innocent as
>' neighbour Jonathan." This,fentiment is
oft i. med, by hearing some old do
rip. of t.u xiqdnefs of some old squaws,
one hundred years ago. Were we to en
quire in"i the truth of these tales, perhaps
little evidence would appear of their vera
city. yet people can ealily believe Indians
to be almolt as harmless as doves. But
how it comes to pass I know not, the fame
people have a very contrary sentiment ref
pefting our frontiers. Every tale told in
Philadelphia, by intereded or prejudiced
pe Tons gains credit,and they conclude that
white people are always breaking treaties
amifettling on the Indians' land not fairly
purchased Perhaps before the revolution,
there have been too much grounds forfuch
sentiments, butl haveknownof none lince;
for we are do: fettled near the lines, yet
the war is continued
Mv observations all reCpeft the Wederri
Indians; ueverthelefs, I think the motives
of war are nearly the fame among all unci
vilized nations. All men have some object
in vie*v a.id ait r'leir pursuits.are deiigned
to be fidfervient to that end. Honor is
the great idol wo'rfhipped by man in a date
of nature.
Among white people, the way to obtain
hono.- is to get money : This'l3 exemplifi
ed among 11s by many, who at the com
mencement of the war, had scarcely a hat
to their heads, but now, by speculation,
are become rich and honorable ; —but this
is not the cafe among the Indians- Mo
ney makes no man a great man. When I
was among them, Kifhinnotiflee lived in as
small an house as any in the town, and yet
he was a head man, and with us dignified
with the title ofa King.
Solomon exhorted us to train up a child
in the way he ftiould go, for the impreflions
made in youth are of a lading nature.—
This is exemplified in Indians, for their
young men are entertained with war-ex
ploits, and the white people's scalps are ex
hibited as crowns of honor. An Indian is
edcemed no better than an old squaw, ex
cept he can bring cut his white rod, with
a firing of white scalps hanging to it. This
proves him to be a great man, and promi
ses honor amongthe nation where he lives.
By these means, the poor young favagea
are trained up to third after blood, as that
is the way to become a great man. They
are not fuffered to nialce exeiuTions very
young, left their courage should fail them
when they meet with oppolitioa and dan
ger- .
I do not remember to have heard any
person make this remark in writing, but
every honest man of observation who has
been among them, mu ft know it to be
true ; and this isthegreateft cause of mur
der committed by the Indians. They have
no principles to restrain them from mur
der, nor will they ever be reftrainea any
other way than by fear, till they are bet
ter inftrufted.
General Sullivan convinced the Northern
Indians of their folly and weakness in ma
king war against us, and now they are out
true friends; but the cafe is quite the re
verse with the Western Indians. Succef
lias attended all their operations against
us. While this is the cafe, men mull: be
worse than mad, to think of peace by the
ridiculous practice of treaties, which ha
ir.'* become a trade among them. Bui
what effect is produced ? Nothing but ri
dicule and scorn. It is common for theni
to fay, white people are fools, becanfe
tvhen Indians have killed them, till the)
jre weary of the bufmefs, white people
will give them great presents to make uj:
again.
It is laughable enough, to hear men tall*
us reducing the army in the present ftatt
di affairs, for there is no change of senti
ment in them refpetfing (bedding innoceni
ilood, and from their great fuotefs, theii
:>*ide is in its meridian, while we are con
idered in the molt contemptible point o:
new, as unable tooppofe them. It is oui
indispensable duty to augment our arm;
f neceflary, and appear in force equal t'
the business ; and when peace is obtainee
an honorable and equal terms, not to i;e
tluce the army, but disband the whole o:
hem as an umieceffary burden, and :
miifance to civil government in- time o:
3eace. Let land be given them to culti
vate, that peace and good will may abouni
among ail the human race. One thing 1
have hitherto omitted, which is, in itsopc'
ration, the greatest cause of the continu
ance of the war. I meantime port at De
troit being in the hands of the British
while this is the cafe, all hopes of peac(
are vain, and founded only in ignorance.
I do not mean thnt we should commenct
war with England, there is no danger o;
t, they are in no capacity for it; for it i:
?vident they are at the verge of a revolu
tion, and were they to attempt war for de
nanding our rights, the good people oi
England would soon interfere, and there
.vould soon be a ci-devant king of Eng
and.
Our operations have been wrong, and
.ve have rendered the nation contemptible
n the eyes of the Britilli as well as among
he Indians. Had our lenders asserted oiu
ights, and changed their operations, we
night have enjoyed peace before now.—
The circuitous rout of the Miami is ivn
)ra£ticable. Our whole force Humid be
;olle£ted at Prefq'ifle on Lake Erie. There
*ve should build as many veflels of all fort:
is would be necetrary to waft our whole
irmy into the heart of the Indian country;
t would not be in the power oftheenen)}
to prevent it. Let us go up the Miami
yf the Lake, or land on the straits this fide
if Detroit. Let us inform the tommand
?r at Detroit, that we have no hostile in
tentions against the fort, he may keep it if
ie plcafes, but he (hail not exercise Britift
aws out of the fort, over the citizens oi
he United States. Let us open a trade
ivitil the Indians at the expense of the li
mited States ; we (hail be able to jinderfell
ill their traders, who are only in a privalje
tapacity. Let us be well prepared for
ivaror peace, and I could pledge my all in
this life, that we (hall soon have peace,
~or the end of war is peace. I have
houghts of giving my fenti merits refpccting
urther proceedings with the Indians, in
irder to promote their happiness connect
:d with our own. At present. I can fay,
that my only view in writing, was to pro
note peace and good will among men,
ind if I have miffed the end, I (hall make
io other apology than—Err are eji huma
lUm.
DAVID JONES.
January zzd. 1793.
For the National Gazette.
so the Farmer, who is desirous to promote
Domeflic Manufactures-
YOUR enquiries in the National Gazette.
No. 127, refpefting the best culture of
flax, merit every attention. In my travels
through the states, I have been aitonilhed
not to fee more system in the culture of
this important production, which I have
paid particular attention to, and have jour
neyed many miles at the feed time, har
vest, and dreflingof flax, to inform my fell
of every particular, and to compare the
management in America, with that in o
ther countries.
The practice, generally, in America, is
to sow a spot of a half, a Whole acre, or
more, on as good ground as the farm af
fords ; but without much attention to it:
previous crops or management, and to
sow at the rate of one bulhel of feed to the
acre. Sometimes a spot, which receives
the waihings of the farm-yard, is made
life of, and produce? a great crop ; that is
to fay, 300 wt. or m&re of ftrwc, trom the
swingle, and 10 or r2, or more bushels of
: But most generally, the averaged
crop in the common management, is from
70 to nolb. of swingled flax, and five or
fix bushels of feed per acre.
In my various experiments, I have, in
the fame field, in the fame year, 011 simi
lar foils, and with the fame management
in all other refpe£fs, lowed at the rate of
ane, two, three and four bushels per acre;
ind have proved to my entire fatisfa&ion,
.hat it is 1110 ft profitable, with proper ma
lagement, to sow four bushels of feed per
icre, American measure. The prudent
"armer will be particularly cautious in
owing none but the belt and cleaned feed.
To "cultivate flax to molt advantage,
'when vou cannot make choice of a spot
ivaflied by the overflowings of the farm
yard, or ftich other spot as may be peculi
lrly adapted to the purpose) plough in a
uortion of your wheat ltubble, soon after
iiarvell : 111 September, Ottober, or No
vember, cross plough, it, after giving it a
plentiful coat of manure from the farm
yard : Leave it rough in the furrow all
winter: In April, May, or June follow
ing, as most convenient, cross plough, har
row, and rull it, and plant potatoes in
row-, at the most convenient diflance to
tend them with a fingje horse ; which I
suppose to betwoand an half ortiireefeet.
Before turning the earth over the planted
potatoes, cover them as plentifully as you
can, with farm-yard manure : Attend
them as usual, onjy observing that the firft
ploughing ought to be from the rows of
potatoes 011 each lide, so as to leave a nar
row comb ; then pass a narrow harrow
through the rows, and this will return the
fine pulverized foil to the roots of the po
tatoes for them to apple in—.tile next
ploughings must be to the rows: Let no
weeds go to feed among them—you will
have a great crop of ■ otatoes : Gather
them in a dry season, and your ground
will be in the highest order, clear of all
weeds, for a crop of flax, which must be
sowed (after two good ploughings, two
rollings and harrowings) as early as your
ground is dry enough, at the rate of four
bushels of He an feed per acre ; and on the
fame day, S, 10 or 1 sib of clean red clo
ver feed per acre—roll both in at the fame
time. This management will secure you
the best crops of both. You may cut your
clover in September the fame year : An
addition of two or three bushels of plaifler
of Paris per acre, after sowing your feed
and rolling it in, or after taking the flax
off, (preferring the former,) will make
you ample returns.
The peculiar advantages in sowing four
hufliels of feed to the acre, are, rft, your
flax is finer: 2d, It is of a longer texture,
becaufeit docs not branch so low down as
thin sown flax does : 3d It is not so lia
ble to lodge—because it is not so top-hea
vy : 4th, you will have a treble crop of
fine flax : and sth, if you leave the flax
tinpulled, until ripe, it will yield a due
proportion of good feed, so as to compen -
fate for the quantity sown ; for 110 cli
mate surpasses that of America in this re
fpc£t. Letting the feed ripen will, howe
ver. greatly exhauil the land, to the injury
of your clover ; whereas by pulling your
flax whilst in bloflom, or as soon as it be
gins to ball, leaves the foil very little im
poverished by this crop, and your flax is
the finer for it.
This management is very similar to the
most approved practice in Ireland, where
they sow as high as seven and eight bush
els of feed to the Irish acre; which is
nearly equal to one and three quarters, A
merican : for this purpose they prefer a
strong fat foil, and sow flax as early in
march as the ground will permit, after two
spring ploughings. Every farmer knows
that the ground, before ploughing it the
Tecond time for flax, must be so dry as to
pulverize kindly, and not to clod after
harrowing; yet a day ought not to be loft;
for the lint will be good in proportion to
your early or late feed time ; extra seasons
excepted.
By attention to the particulars here sta
ted, you may expeit from 300 to 6oolb.
and more of fine flax from the fwingle'per
acre, if you will pull it before it feeds, and
in proportion to the fatnefs of your foil
and the season.
The Roller is an inftrnment not fuffici
ently known in America : It is of capita]
life in preparing all clear grounds for feed:
in a dry season, a judicious use of it maj
make the difference of a good crop, espe
cially where the foil is light : for. rolling
your grain immediately after harrowing it
in, in a dry season, comprefles each grair
nearly alike, and retains the moisture, and
makes the grain vegetate equally. Flax
in particular ought to be rolled immedi
ately after sowing; for, as already men
tioned, it causes the grains to vegetate e
qually, which prevents after grow th the
good effects whereof are visible in every
after process of breaking, fwingljng, hatch
cling, fpinntng, &c.
A TRAVELLING FARMER.
Jan. 23.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Tuesday, Jan. 22.
Several petitions were read and refer
red. A favorable report on the petition
jf H. E. Lutterloh, made during the last
effion, was read; and a committee ap
pointed to report a bill. A petition was
lext read from the manufacturers of cor
dage in the town of Providence (R. 1.)
bating the hardships imposed by the reve
ille law in refpeft to the drawback of du
:ies on cordage of foreign manufacture ;
md praying that said drawback may be
illowed on imported hemp when manufac
tured into cordage and exported—refer
-ed to a feleft committee.
Mr. Willismfon, from the committee
appointed, reported a bill to promote
:oinmerce by encouraging the increase of
American seamen—read twice, and made
:he order of the day for this day two
weeks.
The honfe then went into committee of
the whole 011 the bill for a further affump
:ion of the state debts—and authorizing a
! oan in the notes or certificates of the indi
vidual states.
Mr. Mercer's prdvifo was again under
;onlideration. Some objections being made,
Vlr. Mercer offered the proportion in a
lew form, flill observing the origiflal ob
:e£it refpecling transfers or sales of certifi
:ates. The debate was renewed on this
motion. The question being at length ta
<eli, proportion was negatived—32 to
[8.
After reading the second feftion of the
jill, an addition was proposed by Mr.
Purges, authorizing the states to prescribe
he several species of the certificates which
hall be prescribed to the loan. Agreed
.0.
Wednesday, Jan. 23.
A letteriwas read from the Executive of
Maryland, notifying the election of Willi
im Hindman, a representative in the Con
gress of the United States, instead of Jo
shua Seney, resigned. Several . petitions
md reports were also read, and refer
red.
Mr. Giles read in his place, and laid on
:he table the following resolutions :
Resolved, That the President of the U
nited States be requested to cause to
ie laid before this honfe, copies of the au
thorities under which loans have been ne
gotiated, purfnant to the aits of the 4th
md 12th of August, 1790, together with
:opies of the authorities directing the ap
alication of the monies borrowed.
Resolved, That the President of the U
lited States be requested to cause the house
:o be furniflied with the names of the per
rons by whom, and to whom, the refpect
ve payments of the French debt have
been made in France, pursuant to the ast
for that pnrpofe, fpecifying the dates of
the refpeftive draughts upon the commif
[ioners in Holland, and the dates of the
refpeftive payments of the debts—A simi
lar statement is requeued, refpefting the
iTebts to Spain and Holland.
Resolved, That the Secretary of the
Treasury be directed to lay before the
lioufe an account, exhibiting half monthly,
the balances between the United States
and »he bank of the United States, inclu
rtiug the several branch banks, from the
commencement of those institutions to the
end of tile year 1792.
Resolved, That the Secretary of the
Treasury be directed to lay before this
lioufe, an account of all monies which may
have come into the finking fund, from
the commencement of that institution, to
the present time, fpecifying the particular
fund from which they have accrued, and
exhibiting half yearly, the fumi uninvelt
ed, and where depo(i:ed.
Resolved, That the Secretary of the
Treasury be directed to report to this
lioufe the balance of the unapplied reve
nues, at the end of the year 1792, fpecify
ing whether in money or bonds, and noting
where the money isf dfpofited; that he also
make report of all unapplied revenues,
which may have been obtained bythefeveral
loans authorized by law, and where such
monies are now departed.
He offered sundry calculations, &c. in
support of them, which he also laid on the
table. These last. however, some objec
tions being made, he withdrew.
The resolutions were by special order
read a second time and unanimously 3-
dopted.
The bill for the further aflumption of
the debts of the creditor states was taken
up in committee of the whole, gone thro'
and reported with amendments.
Mr. Mercer renewed his motion which
had been loft by a majority of four in
committee. Upon this the debate was
warm and lengthy. The firft blank was
filled up- with the Ift of January, and the
last with the Ift of June.
The committee rose and reported pre
grefs before a decision on the amendment
was had.
ThursdAy, Jan. 24.
After reading and referring several petitions, the lioufe relumed the confederati
on of tJie biflifor the further aflumption ot
the debts of those states who shall, upon a
tinal settlement of accounts, prove credi
tor states ; together with the amend
ments —Mr. Mercer's amendment being ta
ken up, after a long debate, the yeas and
nays were called —Yeas 30 —Nnys 33.
Mr. Williauifon then made a motion,
the purport of which was to confine the
benefit of the ast to such state creditors as
were creditors on account of fnpplies fur
niflied or services rendered during the
•war.
The yea,s and nays were called 011 this,
and flood 19 in favour of it and 30 against
it.
Mr. Dayton moved a resolution for post
poning the opening of subscriptions to the
15th of Janu.iry 1794. This was warmly
ioppofed, and before the question was ta-
Jken, the house adjourned.
I PHILADELPHIA.
January 26.
Oil the 2jth ult. thirteen Cherokee
chiefs arrived at Knoxvdle (territory
ifonth of the Ohio) with talks of peace.
Several persons had been killed a little pre
vious to the above date, and several rob
beries committed by the Indians, in that
, territory and 011 the frontiers of Geor-
Upa.
Mr M(tihew Carey, having d':fcontinuce
the editing sildpabjifliing The American
Museum, a well known periodical publi
cation (now collected in 11 volumes) Mr.
John Parker, of/this city, we are inform
ed, has undertaken the fame, under the
title of The Columbian Museum.
or, Universal Asylum, to be conduct
ed on the lame plan as heretofore. The
: firft number is to appear on the 15th of Fe
bruary next, and the second on the firft day
' of March, and thenceforward regulirly or
the firft day of every succeeding month.
We hear from Albany that a polt-ridei
is now eftablithed from Niagara to the Ge
nefee river, where he meets the mail froir
Albany every fortnight. A ftagc is, also,
soon to run from Whtteftown to Albany.
We learn from an arrival at Baltimore,
that the several ports in the island of Greai
Britain were open for the importation ol
wheat and flonr on the (sth of November
and would continue so until the 15th oi
May next.
A letter from Boston contains the fol
lowing paragraph : " One of the firft btef
fed effects of promoting a theatre in this
town, is the exciting a contempt of the
clergy : one of the zealous advocates for
that species 6f moral inflrudion, has lv<
the aflurance to propose in the public pa
pers to discontinue the title of Reverend
'under pretence that all titles are unlawful
iin a republican government. It is hopet
such fantaftical ideas of levelling will 1101
be adopted by the sensible and confede
rate."
The latest intell'gence from Cape-Fran
cois [to Dec. 15] itates the two impor
tant polls of Ouanaminthe and Mont Pele
to be in the hands of the republican force:
of the illand. Vast numbers of the insur
gents had been destroyed ; and the remain
der of them reduced to such a situation a;
to put them under the neceflity of fpeedili
surrendering or being driven into the oce
an. A general attack was to take place
about the 2jth.
We hear from Georgia that the legisla
ture of that state, at their lnft session, have
promoted Gen. Jackson to the rank oi
Major-General; and Col. Gunn to the
rank ofa Brigadier-General.
It is complained of hi the Boston papers
that out of the whole number of reprefen
tatives and senators of Mafl~;chufetts foi
the federal government, already elected
and of those upon their present lift of can
didates, there arc but three (Benjdmir,
/.lujlin, Esq. excepted) who are not Law
yers, Judges, or gentlemen of Bar-connec
tions—\y a -jobis, juris confulti.']
" There exists among us (fays a corres
pondent) a combination of men who have
in a manner, for nothing, got into theii
poffeflion the hard earnings of the soldier,
■who fought our battles in the cause of li
berty ; and by deep intrigue in the admi
riftration of the federal government, they
have placed these fame securities which
they bought from the soldier at 2/6 on the
pound, in the vaults of the funding system.
where they value them at 20/, and draw
their interest accordingly. It would be tc
the praise ofa certain elefcription of per
sons if they would disgorge a little ot the
well-earned feaft that was due to honefi
labour—The dose of political ipecacuanha
has been given, but the usual effects are
not observed —Purgation is therefore ne
cefiary"
" '27; there''s to fuck, and fuck, and al
ways Juck )
Swill deep —yet never glut the ivfatiate
maw."
A brig, bound from Cape Fear to the
Chefepeake with 275 hhds. of tobacco,
and other articles, was loft on Cape Look-
Out lhoals, about 8 in the evening, on the
30th of December. It is remarkable,
from their accounts that at the time they
llruck they imagined themselves 84 miles
eaftof Hatteras, in lat. 35. 8. whereas the
Ihoals on which they were wrecked lia in
34. 20. and more than a degree to the welt
ward. They had the fame day, at noon,
übferved in lat. 34. 1. The crew with
great difficulty saved themselves in their
boat, and on Monday reached Cape Look
out beach, diflant about 3 1-2 leagues
from where the vellel was wrecked. Her
naffie was The Abeecee, Capt. Bartlett.
A letter dated Liverpool, Nov. 7, 17921
contains the following paragraph : " En
closed are the returnsof the prices of corn,
copied from the London Gazette. This
port, we expect, is not to open this month
to foreign wheat."
A mine was lately discovered near the
Delaware, about 30 miles above Eafton,
which is fa id to contain very valuable fil
ter ore : About 15 tons of it was a few
weeks linoe brought to this city, and (hip
ped to England.
From North-Carolina we learn, thai
the legislature of that fla .e has lately de
termined that the election for reprefetita
tives in Congress (hall be held on the fe-
Lohd Thursday and Friday in February
next.
We also learn, that Mr Williartlfon ha?
requeued of his condiments in the diftric!
i>f Edenton. that lie may not be confider
?d as a candidate 't the next election, a 1
the arrangement of his private affairs re
quires more of his time than he he has late
ly been able to command, coilfideiing the
[late of his health, during the fummer'sre
cefs. »
By a late enumeration of the houses in
Baltimore and Fells-point) the whole num
ber is found to be 2460, including ware
houses and {lore houses.
The Printers of the Connedicnt Courant,
of January 21, inform tile public with an
air of felf-gntulation, that there is no
common hangman in that (late" A cor
respondent deiires them to recollect, how
ever, that this circumstance will not save
them from fitting on the gallows, in cafe of
" inifDehaviour."
The following unfortunate event took
place a few ago. near Middletown in
Monmouth county, New-Jersey. \ young
man from New-York, named Aiams,
went late in the evening, with a compa
nion, toa hoitfe where lived agirl to whom
lie paid his addrefles. Finding the family
jlleep, they agreed to disturb the poultry
noufe by way of giving a jocular alarm to
the owner. Mr. Morr«l, who was in bed
n the dwelling house, upon hearing the
noise, got up, and suspecting thieves., iu
ilantly discharged a mnfquet, loaded with
leavy (hot, towards the poultry hoiife, and
unfortunately (hot Adams thro' the heart,
ivho iuftantly expired. What rendered
this accident (till more alfefting was
Adams being a fuitorof Mr. Morre-l's wife's
iller.
Ex trait of a letter from Princeton, dated
Jan. 17.
" There are times and seasons when a
communication or exchange of sentiments
ie ween the citizens of a republic may be
nfeful : As such, be plcafcd to publidi in
pour gazette, the following toads, drank at
1 very refpe£table meeting of inhabitant"
of this town and neighbourhood, aflembleu
yesterday to celebrate the prosperity of the
Republic of France."
i(t. The Republic of France : Wisdom
in her councils and fucccfsto her arms.
2d. May she eftablifn a truly republican
and good government on the ruins of def
potifiu.
3d. May our friftnd and brother, La Fay
ette, be rellorcd to liberty and to his coun
try.*
4th. If the despot of Brnufwick be to be
(hot, may he be (hot in the back.
sth. Confufion to all d'efpots—may the)
be driven from their thrones any where but
to the devil.
6th. May the memory of every little and
great despot from Nimrod down to the pre
sent day, be held ineverlafting abhorrence.
7th. A good republican government to
Poland : Health and prosperity to Mala
chouiki, and his brother patriots : Ma)
they never iofe fight of, and may they live
to fee the regeneration of their country.
Bth. May the Britifn wear any kind oi
buttons they please, whilst they live, and
any kind of ihroud their friends please
when they die.
9th. The colonies of South America :
May they become happy and free as we are.
10th. To the memory of the martyrs of
liberty, in all ages and climes : Blellings
attend their posterity.
11 th. Peace with our brethren, the brave
aborigines of America.
12th. The millcnium of universal liber
ty, peace, and virtue.
13th. The people of the United States,
their Congress, and their President.
14th. The (late of New-jersey and her
chief magistrate.
15th. The College of New-Jer
sey, and the general interelts of science
and religion.
* Addition by several, " May the grati
tude of America direli its servants to ask,
and if necejfary, to purchaje the freedom oj
its friend, by a Jpeedy andJpecial ambaj
fador.
Extract of a letter from London, dated
November 16, 1792.'
" To those who are favored with an eye
of rational discernment, it Will be fuffici
e.itly evident that we of the present day
live in no common times. The faculties
of man are every where upon the stretch
to do himfelf juflice, and to rid himfelf oi
that accumulation of wrongs which have
opprefTed nis race for so many ages. Let
u> look through the world ; what inequal
ity do we fee ! millions crushed into the
dust, eating the coarse bread of extreme
poverty, while their worthless talk-mas
ters are rioting in unmerited plenty ; and
not fatisfitd with that, never reft from
their endeavors till they are acknowledged
the lords of their species, and are enabled
to fubjeft the will of every humiliated in
dividual to their own ! These observations
apply in a mod particular manner to the
people ill Germany and Italy, who, gener
ally fpeafcSng, are spending their lives in
beggary, to promote the pleafpres, info
lente, and tyranny of the privileged or
ders. IVfay we not now hape that a great
light is bifrfting upon those enOaved conn-
Cries, from a quarter whence no man could
have expected it, and that it will in dpe
time pervade the whole eat'th ?—with re
gard to the Papal tyranny, it has been a
long time on the deciine, and it appears
that the finifhiag stroke is Toon to be given
by the enlightened arms of France, and an
end put to iiripoftnre and superstition in
thai part of the world. The scandalous
spi ritual prostitution. To much spoken of
by the ancient prophets, will now, we
doubt not. be punilied in a manner of pe
culiar severity, and ;he guilty be forced to
:all upon rocks and mountains to fall up
an, and cover them from the terror- that
jre at hand. Smneof the liinft judicious
:ommentators upon holy writ have fixed
:he deftruflion of the Papal power to the
/ear 1806, from' arguments that may be
■eckoileil inconteftible; so that in less than
14 years considerable changes may be look
:d for in that part of Europe.*'
[[Front a Bojlon paper of Jan. 10.]
" The operation of the Branch Bank in
3ofton, by the uncertainty of dijcounts,
>roves the injurious confluences refult
ng from a monopoly of this inftitutlon.
The fact is—the directors have inverted in
t such it large proportion of their whole
iroperty, by engrossing, f with a few fpecu
ators) such a number of (hares, that they
ire become aJmoll afraid of their own jiia
lows; being so greatly interefled in the
'illicit of the Bank, it renders them timid ;
md so great are their fears, that every note
>refe:ited, while their tremors are upon
hem, is considered as having some magi
cal property, that may poflibly. fliake the
lability of the institution before it becomes
Jayable."
The rapacity of the dir;£tors in engrof
ing such a large number of the (hares, pla
:es them in a situation fomc-what like a
nail arming himfelf with so huge a wea
jon, that he is afraid to (or cannot) wield
t.
The monopoly of the Branch Bank is
jeeome a molt severe scourge to the trade'.
The discounts are so uncertain, and de
fend so much on the whims, nerves, ca
m-ice and fears of individuals, that the
merchant is totally deranged in all his en
gements. One month he can get a sup
ply, the next he is altogether deprived of e
yt ry /hilling ; and to add to his difficulties,
2". immediate demand is made for his for
mer note —this unexpected call on the
merchant, together with the refujal, ren
ders all his negotiations uncertain,and have
a direct tendency to destroy every regular
course of bulinefs.
Another difficulty which arises in this
Bank,is their connection with a. foreign ef
tablifliment—The merchants not being ac
quainted with all the Jecret communicati
ons which daily influence the directors, are
unable to judge at what time difconnts
will cfofe; but be checked in their renew
al , without having any previous notice to
guard against the disappointment,
Stopping discounts at the Branch Bank
naturally operates 011 the Union and Mas
sachusetts ; in consequence of which, r.ot
vithftanding the establishment of three
banks within this town with iramenfe ca
pitals, a merchant of the firft responsibili
ty, cannot acquire a dollar.
The Union and Maflachtifetts Banks,
are fully fufficirnt for the real demands of
this (tate, and they arc able to give regular
fapplies to every class of citizens that ap
plies ; but the Branch bank being connected
with many contingencies, is conftautly fub
jeitto the humours of individuals, by which
means the other Banks are obliged to check,
in order to free themselves from the rapa
city of this intruder, by the colleition of
too great a proportion of their bills.
What with the timidity of the Directors
by owning so large a property in the Bank,
together with the foreign influence that
controuls, the bank is become an injurious
and deftruftive institution in this town,
calculated to perplex every man that has
any connection with it, and is the princi
pal cause thatprevents the discounts at the
other banks.
This being the probable state of facts, it
would be well for the merchants to present
to the next general court, a Remon
strance against the eftablifiiment of it in
this town or state, representing the grea
difficulties arising to the trade by the uncer
tainty of the negotiations.
Unless fomemeafure of this kind is pro
secuted with spirit and resolution, all the
banks will fooij become totally useless, and
the citizens will be constantly involved in
uncertainty and perplexity in all their mo
ney matters."
There Was lately deposited in Mr. Peale's
Museum, a specimen of ore bro't from a
mine in the county of Jefferfon, south weft
territory of the United States, loowt. of
which produces Bolbs. of good lead.
It appears surprizing fays a correfpond
:nt, that the citizens (hould be so zealous
in purchasing fajl property, at enormous
r ates, while the Bank of the United States
is pay'mg/emi-annual dividends at the rate
t>f ibper cent, pir annum !—We may pre
dict, from this circumstance, and the e
loruious RENTS now demanded fur hou
fesinthis city, many keys depoiited under
Joors —and the downfall of fair trade—Ci
tizens. much depends on you. [M \-J ./v.]
Modern revolutions, fays one, are the
-everfe of the ancient —They are rh- ef
"ect of general causes, and originate from
he republican principle of moral equality.
This principle, capable of pervading mil
lions at once, mayeleftrify an whole na
tion at a ihock. and, with the velocity of
ightning, prove the irresistible power of
,iberty.
JuJl Publijhed,
By H. Sc P. RICE, No. 50, Market-Street,'
THE SYSTEM OF
Uf-d bv Mr. Lloyd, in taking down the
DEBATES' of CONGRESS.
%* REPRESENTATION havingbeen made*
:hat the shortness of the period, limited for the
Cubfcription, has deprived many gentlemen at a
Jirtance, of an opportunity of fending in their
lames :—The Editor, in order to accommodate
hem,,and to render this publication more ex
.-nftvejy ufeful, has determined not to raise the
rice to a dollar and an half (as intended) before
he fifteenth of March ; —making however a dif
:r;mination, in favor of (he a&ual fubferibers,
>y printing their copies on fuperjine 1 jyal writirg
taper. A few remaining copies of ih.skind will
je delivered to the earliell of the non-fublc;ibir.g
jurchal'ers, at the fame price as those on the com
mon printing paper, viz. ore dollar, in marbled
.overs j neatly bound, a French crown*
Jan. 25. 4t.
■>
jujt Pubiyhedj
ByWILUAM YOUNG, DooKfeller, No. ss,
Second-street, the corner of Chefnut-ftreet,
In two large Svo. vols, neatly bound, price four
dollars,
ESSAYS
ON THE
INTELLECTUAL and ACTIVE
POWERS of MAN.
By THOMAS REID, D. D. F. R. S.
Edinburgh, Profejjor of Moral Philo-
Juphy in the Vniverftty of Glasgow.
IT would bejmproper tor the publ+iher to men*
tion anything, refpe£ting the literary talents
of an author, f<» generally known and esteemed.
Nor does it appear necefl'ary to request attention,
to peruse a work, whose importance is universal
ly acknowledged. Those who have read the an
cient fyrtems, and these volumes, will readily per
ceive, that the knowledge of philosophy, advanc
es from a (fate of infancy, towards maturity ;
nor \vill it appear too much, when it is said, that
Dr. Reid has diverted moral science, from that
veil under which for so many ages it has been
concealed, by ambiguous words and the jargon of
the schools. Thus he has aded that friendly part
to moial l'cience, which the ingenious Newton
and Ffcrgufon did to natural philosophy j„their
united and flciiful efforts, render philosophy, not
only an ufeful, but a pleasant exerciie, an'd a
more fafe Introduction to the mod important stu
dies.—st is impracticable to insert the lengthy
reviews of this work, and to give a part, would
be unfriendly to the author and reviewers.
A L S O,
Prtcij ndaily bound in 2 2 dollars
50 cents,
A COMMENTARY
ON THE
BOOK of PSALMS,
In which their literal or hiilorieal sense, as
they relate to King David* 2nd the People of I»-
rael, is illustrated ; and their application to Mcf
fiah, to the Church, and to individuals, as mem
bers thereof, is pointed out : With a view to ren
der the use of the Pfaiter ple.afing and profitable to
uil orders and degrees of Chrirtians. The firft
American edition, from the fourth Brit:ill.
By GEORGE, Lord Biihop of Norwich, and
President of Magdalen College, Oxford.
ALSO,
Zimmerman on Solitude : Price bound and
lettered, 88 cents or 7-Sths of a dol
lar.—Also, Scott's Force of Truths
price, bound and lettered 44 cents.
Just come to hand, and for Sale,
DAVIS'S SERMONS
Complete in three vols. 8 vo.—price bound
5 dollar* and 25 cents.
Jan. 26. 4t. 1 aw.CONGRESS.
ThurfJay, January 3.
Continuation of the Debate on reducing
the present Army Edablilhment.
£Mr Findley's Speech concluded.]
IF the militia are to be so much op
pressed, it mull be under their Hate
Jaws ; the operation of our militia law
has not been tried, and the militia will na
turally have more confidence in the laws
of the (late, and be better paid by them.
If the peopl.' mud undergo all the riflt
of hre and all the hardships of war, in car
rying on a war whicli they did not com
mence, nor have power to terminate, w ll
they not naturally look from the govern
in nt of the union, to that of tSeir own
dates? and wilt the Hate governments
conduCt a war with their hands tied ? Will
they not take their own way of conduct
ing the war and of procuring peace ?—
Surely they will, and the general govern
ment ought only to hope for obedience
End refpeft as long as it gives general pro
tection, which was the reason of its indi
tution. But if gentlemen were willing
thus to surrender the principles of the go
vernii' -nc, thev ought fird to put the fron
tier Hates in as good a (ituution as the new
Congress found them ; when the Indians
were not united and when they did not
know that they could so ealily and so com
pleatly defeat us.
Supposing that we appropriate a fuffi
ctent sum of money to pay the frohtier
militia for conducting the war of the uni
on , I ask who are these militia ? Is it
those unfortunate few whom we induce !
to fettle at Marietta, that are to protest
our extensive weltern territory, againd the
u.iited exertions of all the wedetn Indians ?
or is it the few f.attered inhabitants of the
fouth-wedern territory who are to un
dertake ou defence againd the numerous
and warlike tribes around them, aided by
our southern European neighbours ? Or
is it the scattered settlements of Georgia
vho from known causes are weak within
themfeives that are to defend us againd
the niod powerful and numerous tribes of
Indians on the one fide, and white people,
•perhaps little less inimical,on the other?—
Impoflible ! t 'his cannot on cool reficCtion
be the serious intention of even the mem
bers who have exprefled themfeives so.
From the very inadequate pay which
the militia have already received, and the
difficulty of obtaining it, however welldif
pofed the members who propose it may
be, there is little ground to confide in the
prov.'fion* being ample, especially wlien it
is conlidered that the expense has been
the argument mod dwelt upon by all the
gentlemen
/Arguments however of another and
mere important nature have been fugged
.ed : n favor of leflening the army. I mean
the p iceable disposition of our citizens
and the principles of our government; in
this I ".m heartily agreed, and were the ar
gil; <nt upon original ground, and the
meafurt optional I would doubtless op
pose an army; but the quedion is not,
whether we shall begin a war, or whether
we shall have a (landing army to aid the
government in time of peace ; if that
were the cafe I would certainly be on the
otier fide ; but «i:h us it is a queltion of
jieceflity, not of choice, it is to procure a
pe ce, and not to procure a war ; it is to
propel, and not to oppress or aid in go
ve >g our citizens ; I know that Hand
ing armies have r-.lways been sources of op
preflion and aids of tyranny ; our people
may long be governed without such ai< s,
their situation will not admit of abufts
from danding armie9, nor would the citi
zens submit thereto.
However, when I observe the difficulty
of procuring money for the support of even
a necefiary force, and thtjealoufy of ar
mies so prevalent among the members ;
whatever difficulties it may now pro
duce, yet this disposition augurs well
towards the security of our liberties;
when I also consider how anxious the peo
ple of the United States and the members
of Congress are for peace, and what ex
traordinary exertions the executive has
made to preserve it ; and when I also re
flect, that the next Congress will be a more
full and equal representation of the peo
ple's intereds and sentiments than we are,
I am confident the army will be dischar
ged as soon a3 our affairs will admit of
it.
The prospeCts we have of peace are not i
very flattering—they by no means arise
from the good dispositions of the Indians
towards lis, nor from the love of peace, but
from the dread of the power and perma
nency of our force ; take away those im
pressions and all our prospeCts of peace
vamfh ; it may be recolleCted that the Six
Nations of Indians were our inveterate foes,
and would never liden to the voice of
peace until they felt our power, and we
have fufficient proofs, that their continu
ing peaceable does not arise from their
dispositions towards us, but from their be
ing so much in reachyaf our power. Ad
mitting that the militia were in every re
speCt the bed for fighting Indians, and
that we could in jult'ce throw the burthen
and risk of fighting wholly on them ; yet
this method «ou d certainly lengthen the
war; we have, and always had the mili
tia ; but they are not a vilible force ; the
j llrokes the- make didrefs and irritate the
I Indians,and when the expedition is over the
force difp.ppears, and the Indians meditate
and too often obtain revenge; the apprehen
lionofan army llrikes them withapprehen
fions of a permanent design, and convinces
them that it i 3 their interell to have peace ;
the late murders of those who bore the
ensigns of peace are an undoubted proof
that the prospeCts of peace do not arise
I from any other motive than the dread of
our force.
When I refleCt on our having so lately
been convinced of the inditpenfible neces
sity of raiting an army, and before it was
possible to accomp'ifh theohje£l intended,
that a motion is made for lellening that
force, I am truly surprized at the incor.-
filtency to which it would lead; surely
there is not luch an inllance to be found in
the history of nations, nor in the acts of
public bodies, and if it Ihould succeed it
would mark our councils in an extraordi
nary point of view. However, so averfr
am I to armies and so sensible of the evils
they have occafloned, that I gave a serious
ear to the motion, and maturely examined
the circumdances in which the cafe was
involved. I wilhed for reasons tojullify
my supporting thereof, but examination
produced conviction of its impropriety.
The gentlemen doubtless have determi
ned from the fird imp effion of the fubjeft ;
more minute invedigation will convince
themfeives of the bad policy of such an
unreasonable change of measures. I with
great reluCtance was convinced of the ne
cessity of so great a force la(t feflion—but
even if I hadb.-en finally against itlaft feflion,
I would nevertheless have been for fupport
mg that force in the present important
crifia ; better by far we had never made
the law for railing the army than to repeal
ft now.
The present Indian war is efientially
different from any former one. When
Britain and France divided North Ame
rica betwixt them, if the of
both excited the Indians !o war, the pow
er of both afforded protection. When
Britain became pofleded of the wedern
polls, and many tribes of Indians com
menced a war, the Britiih government
conducted the war, carried it into the In
dian country, and by the dread of their
arms procured a peace; but the Indians '
were not then supported by other powers.
But in the present war. the Indians who
at that time knew nothing 06 us, have
combined to make it a cor.vnon cause ;
and 110 superior power interell themfeives
in our favour—no, they conceive-our in
tereftstobe inimical to theirs. But if they i
did not receive encouragement, proteCti- !
on, and fuppliesfrom our European neigh
bours a peace would soon be procured ; '
the gentlemen who support this resolution '
know well how that matter stands, and '
they know explanations here are not con- j
v'enient. '
I once thought of moring a resolution c
for limiting the time of enlilling to some <■
day in March or April next, knowing that 1
the intermediate winter months are the [
bed season for recruiting, and apprehend- f
ing the bed opportunities of disciplining
would then be probably over ; but upon \
second thought, I apprehend this was not t
necefiary, that moll probably the army
by that time would be so nearly compleat,
that all the saving of money it would
make, would be no object, and reflecting
that the President was already authorised
either to (lop recruiting, or to discharge ;
the new regiments when circumllances 1
would admit of such a measure. From '
the observations I have made the commit- ?
tee will be convinced that I design to vote c
against the resolution.
■ The UPAS, or POISON TREE.
!
A description of a tree in the island of
- Java, called the Upas, or Poison Tree, is
- given by a Surgeon belonging to the
: Dutch East-India company, of the name
c ofFoERSCH, who was Rationed at Bata
, via in the year 1774- Surprising as these
f accounts may be, they are accompanied
: with so many public facts, and names of
- petfons and places, that it is somewhat
• difficult to conceive them fabulous.
The Upas grows about seven leagues
from Batavia, in a plain surrounded by
rocky mountains, the whole of which
! pla'n, containing a circle of ten or twelve
miks round the tree, is totally barren.
Nothing that breathes or vegetates can
live within its influence. The bird that
flies over it drops down dead. The beast
that wanders into it expires. The whole
dreadful area is covered with sand, over
which lie fcatttred loose flints and whiten
ed bones.
This tree may be called the Emperor's
great military magazine. In a solution of
the poisonous gum which exudes from it,
his arrows and ofFenlive weapons are dip
ped : the procuring, therefore, of this poi
lonous gum, is a matter of as much atten
tion as of difficulty. Criminals only are
employed in this dreadful service. Of
these several every year are sent, with a
promise of pardon and reward if they
procure it. Hooded in leathern cases,
with glass eyelet holes, aad secured as
much as pcffible from the full effluvia of
the air they are to breathe, they under
take this melancholy journey, travelling
always with the wind. About one in ten
escapes, and brings away a little box of
this direful commodity.
' METEORO L OGICAL OBSER VAT lONS.
January 1793.
D. II / Bar. J Tber, lV,nd. IVeath.
Tuesday, 15. 7 29. 97) 32 calm \Mifty.
2 29. 3s 37# S. ! do.
r/edncjday, lb. 7 29. 7 37 calm Rain.
2 29» 5 39 d. E ._i do.
•Tburjduy, 17. 7 29* 4 37 w. Rair t Sn.
2 29. c, WNW.Fair.
briday, jS. 7 29. 9 32 W. Fair.
2 2Q. s 52 S. W. do.
Saturday, 19. 7 it,. 37 W. Fair.
2 29. 85 4.S do. do.
Sunday, 7 29. 85 33 calm Hazey.
______ 2 2q. 7 47 S. Cloudy.
Monday, 21. 7 ty. 5 36 b.YV. Cloudy,
2 29. 45 47 j«V S W Fair.
Terres a Vendre
Dans un pais Lien pcuple
S A VOIR, foixante cinq mille, trois cens, foix
anrc et cjuatorze Acres, en une feale piece,
dans le canton le mieux people de la Caroline Me
ridio«iale, leDiftii&de Ninety-Six. Ces terre*
font fituees dans une contree agreible, et falubre,
les fievres font inconnuesj a environ vingt lieues
de Colombie, la Capitale, et contigues aJa ville
<ie Cambridge, eu il y a College, et Cour fuperi
ture. A environ douze lieues, i 1 y a bonne nave
garion ; et il eft tres probable, que dans quelqui
terns on rcndra navigable le Grand Salude, riviere
qui arrofe les terres memes. Elles font agreable
ment diverfifiees de coteaux et vallons charmant
propres ala culture du tabac, du coton, duma Vs.
et du petit grain ; et dont une proportion confider
abls'fe peut aifement convertir en prairies fertiies
ilneeft peut-etre gueres pofllble de rencontrerune
pareille piece de terre a vendre dans aucun autre
des Etats Unis jet pour les conditions de I'ach at
on les rendra tres commodes.
S'informer a I'imprimerie de la Gazette Na
tional. Sept. 5.
LANDS for SALE,
TN a well fettled Country. SIXTY-FIVE
JL THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY-FOUR ACRES OF LAND, in #ne
body, in the molt populous part of the state of
South-Carolina, in the diftridt of Ninety-fix-—lt
is situated in.a fine healthy climate,free from fever
Sc ague,about sixty miles from Columbia, the fear
of government. The land is contiguous to the
town of Cambridge, where are a seminary so the
inftruclion of youth, and a superior law court. It
is at-prefent within about thirty-five miles of good
navigation, with a probability of having the river,
calied the Great Saluda, that flows along one fide
of the land, made navigable. The land is beauti
fully diverfified into swells and vales, and is per
fectly well calculated for the culture of tobacco,
cotton, Indian corn, and small grain ; a great
proportion of it may be made meadow ground.
There is not, perhaps, such a body of land, so cir
cumstanced, for fate in any other of the U ; States.
The terms of payment will be made convenient to
the purchaser or purchafeis. Apply to the Printer.
August 294 lawtf
SIX-PENCE REWARD. '
RUN AWAY from the fubferiber, living in
.Southampton townlhip, Bucks County, on
tn; lifth of January, a servant lad named THO
MAS SMITH, had on a striped cloth coat, old .
felt hat, and woolen trowfers, whofoevcr /hall
apprehend the said lad, and bring him home to
his mailer, ill all have the above reward, but ro
charges paid, JOSHUA WOOD.
Jan. 22.
Philadelphia is New-York
f STAGES,
' By W A Y O F
' BURLINGTON, BORDENTON, & SOOTH
■ AMBOT—
Hart from Samuel Cooper's Ferry, oppo
. Lite to Philadelphia, every Sunday and Wed
nesday morning, during the winter season, andl
airive at South-Amboy on Monday, and Thurfday l
: evenings—where a good boat will be ready to coa
vey Goods and Pafiengers to New-York.
The Stage boats will leave New-York every
, Monday and Thursday, so u to meet the St aire,
from Philadelphia at Amboy, to proceed for Phi
ladelphia next day. All Baggage
pallengersto be at their own ril'que.
All Goods forwarded by the Stages on bill, to
be under the particular care of the Proprietors of
the Stages ; but not warranted against robbery or
damage—And all entering, dealing and permits,!
to bt paid by the owners of goods. '
Price of a pafTage from Cooper's ferry toNew-
York, - ]3
2colb. of Goods, to pay the price of a pafTage.
All Way passengers, 3d per mile.
AMOS HUTCHIN, and 7 For Burlfn*.
NICHOLAS SCHENCK, J ton line. )
VAN EM3URGH & M'KEAN, 7 For Borden
and DAVID WILLIAMSON, J ton line
Jani'ary 16, 1793. [iaw,.ew
CHARLES BITTERS,
No. 120, South Market, near Fourth-fa -
Has received from New-York, an, r
nufa£hired by Lot Merkel,
A large and general aflortment *
Muffs and 1 ippets, Trimmings
and Edgings,
GreatCoats, Caps, Mitts and Gloves lined
witlj Fur, which be will fell,
Wholesale and Retail,
at the lowest prices.
Nnv - 84- 2aw
A FEIV COPIES OF THE 1
transactions /
Of the Society inllituted in the State of
New-York, for the promotion of
AGRICULTURE, ARTS, and MANU- :
FACTURES,
May be had at this Office.
[Price half a dollar.]
Jan. j.
notice.
having demands aj>ainft the estate
of Godfrey Vattieren, late of Bucks Countv,
deceas'd, are requested to exhibit their accounts,/
properly Authenticated, in order for settlement—•;
And those who are indebted to said estate to make
immediate payment, to
\ JOHN HOUGH, Administrator.
Bucks County, Dec. 28, 1792. 4t.iav*
Philadelphia, January 12, 1793.'
MATHEW CAREY
Refpectfully informs the Citizens of the
United States, that the Maps for his
intended edition of
Guthrie's Geography
improved,
Are now engraving—and as soon as a fufficlent
number of them are finifhed, to secure a regular {
supply during the publication,'which will proba
bly be early next Spring, the work will be put
to press.
Hereturns his acknowledgments to the very
relpe&ab!e number of fubferibers, who have come
forward thus early to patronize this arduous un
dertaking. He iiTu.cs them and the public in
general, that no pains or expence (hall be spared in
the execution of the work.
Terms tf the Work :
I. IT lhall be published in 48 weekly num
bers, each containing three sheets, or twenty-four
pages, of letter prete, in quarto, printed with new
types on fine paper.
11. In the course of the work will be delivered
about thirry large maps, of the fame size as those
in the European editions, viz. molt of them sheet
J maps on port paper.
I Kj 3 Befidcs the maps in the Br'itifb Edition,
! this work ivll contain nine or ten American States
Maps,
111. The price of each number will be a quar
ter dollar, to be paid on delivery.
No advance required.
IV. Subscribers who disapprove of the work
on the publication of the three firft numbers, are
to be at liberty to return them, and fliall have
their money repaid.
V. The fubferibers* names /hall be prefixed as
patrons of the undertaking.
*** Subscriptions received in Philadelphia by
the intended publisher ; in New-York, by all the
booksellers ; in New-Haven, by Mr. Beers : in
Hartford, by Mr. Patten $ in Boston, by Me IT.
Tbomas and Andrews, and by Mr. Weft; in
Baltimore, by Mr. Rice ; in Richmond, by Mr.
J. Carey j in Charleston, by Mr, W. P. Young,
and by sundry other persons throughout the Uni
ted States. lawtf
Fur file, at the printing office, a few copier
of the firjl volume of the National Gazette.
PRINTED BY
CHI LD S and SWA IN E,
AT THEIR OFFICE NOiZOC), HICK-STREET
NEAR FIrTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA!