jj"*
p. F RENE * U-. (-> No. 20?, Market Street) PuUi/hed Wednesdays and Saturdays, [Three Dollars per annum.]
r 760? Vol.. n.l
. N j K A T 1 O N,
i-<vl at tl>e request of the C'ceroniai
.'.v bv tbe:r Prtlident, oti the Anni
verfar* >f Am«ric*n Independence.
[Continue*, f-om oar la/I <b coUclu 'eJ,']
CUR bi ethre", the French, are at thi;
t«,oiuent engaged in uppofition
b'l the hoiyid -.u vers of iup'-r(Htion, igno
ru ce a d-blind credulity : they are ftrug
vi. American patriot: of'; 6 ftrug
-i'i, ■i ii! the time of their arduous conflict
s .'t, rfi n er) ! beavcn alone .knosv-
I event, and our deltiny is blended with
theirs. If trance lomjuerj we .ire ftili
i. et, if her efforts fail, we are undone.
Heaven feeiua to have leagued these l-v.
rations for foil!a purpose, and as Ih ■
mcautresflf.nitM liicc'eed or perifli, accord
iugto the will of Hie Supreme law-giver,
\v ■ 'lave no rea&n to doubt of the equity
of tins inoportaht decificu-
G 'tisleinea. upon thisoccafion, convene! 1
a; we are, in tellimony of our thankful
njfs for tike favours bellowed by heavei
li f >on our country. believe me, my lituatior
.c-Jitr. it biTt be extre nely irksome in speak
i upon a taeme which few eioaueoc# itfell
a fiance- Great and majc-ltic in i:fel!
it can |tceive no lddlti -nai luft.-e. for whi
tar, with fucceft the radiance ol
I'te fj;i ? —To picture the gloriaus effui
which blazed npon this country fe
ve iteen years ago, were a'vain attempt ai
the; present period, But i t the courle oi
time, when the records of the nation (ha!
b.' d ifted over with age, / hen the witness
e, of tne proceedings of'-ft lhall ir.habil
Tiie tilent gr itte,& when the splendor of the
4.a of J ,11 y hall d,v. vlie int 1 faint defcrip
l oi, the ), for the diy flist'l never pals iri
ji >ti:ed, then !h tU the ora.p.' dwell witl;
* itkuiiaflic fervor upo 1 t : >e funjt £1, anr
Icindle into rapturi v' pplauding throng
J very hc-arer lit hg' v.ita aduiir ation
a.Ki fi'ci y We iH ®as! ~ „jt .. ;th w info xe#
in support oi the cause in which their fa
thers oled. Then iltaU the orator bring t'
view the various scenes of the revolution
and bid the youth of that d-y aspire a'' I .e
gory. He tiiall draw with the fine>r o
fa.icy the tlatefmen of '76, defi.r -a >b,
powers of the rulers and the in' ! 'e iV>l
rights os-he pc pie, fixing the * licoa o
authority in the 'ettsr of the law, — oppc.f
ling the ar.ll of oppeitioa by the pr-rep!
of nature and of reason, and e'Ublifh'm;
the happinef- «f mankind upon the eterna
maxims of jut Vice and equity. He dial
pull aside the -lark curtain which tlien Ilia!
have veiled pal: scenes from light, and tltf
flay (he heroe* of the war marching tri
uinpha.it over their vi-.ptHied enemies
tears of gratitude fluid flo.v i,i reniem
brance of those martyrs whole patriotii
zeal afforded a vifiory death was afhamet
to acknowledge—while the memory of tin
Fabius of CoHunbU, who then "will be n«
in .re, . HufMive in the panegyric son
aid his pair(6tir.si and moderation (liall bt
Jield up as a model for the imitation of hi
fucceliurs: virtue and republicanism lhall b<
ccii -cd from every fide while social con
v. rfe atlt! the gentle arts of pe ice lhal
reahfe the hapjiirtefs of the whole commit
tnitty. Tliefe les the future fpeakei
lhall piint to his qrouded audience, am
impsefo those sensations upon the mindi ol
his hearers. T.he anecdotes of magnani
mous vvorthies who muketl the 4th of Jul)
as the Jubilee of America, wili be preferv
ed-by trtidition forever and (liall animate
all posterity. Then. Ih .11 not we of the
present day arriving to maturity but a few
je.,rs posterior to the great revolution.
Jiiall not we glow with the mighty theme
a id repeat w;th trunfport the sentiment o (
gr i'ude ? Sh ill we let this day pass un
hee ..i'y, fnffer the panegyric llrain.tpre
main unfounded, and offer no prayer to
heaveu in token of our acknowledgment ol
the unparalleled blefliags we have receiv
ed ?—Jod to bid ! ungrateful indeed were
the people of America if, at this time, the
{i'ji- rings and.services of the patriots cf-(
■were f< rgottc'n- ill ilefervijig were the)
of the blefnngs of peace and indeperdence
if fiey already. disregard the trrmory o!
those who acquired them.—But, tny hear
ers, freeuien cannot be guihy of ingrati
tude. It is a crime of so debafinga nature
that slaves only car. pofief9.it. Ac th: pe
nod of time, when tiie wounds our ga'iianl
eountrysnen received in the late arduous
conflict are yet unhealed, w hen the ("words
<;f our ot> ers lie fieeplefs in their, fc;.b
barch, and while the foil 011 whicn we
ti ead is moist with the crimson dew whict
firlt nourished the plant of liberty, the
sensibility of Americans geeds not the ani
SATURDAY, July 20, 1793.
n ition of an ejitrinfic monitor to roue
them to a Cilr of their duty- We want
i-ic tor the ai'niiveiTaiy ot the declaration
o. indepenQcnce to be pis in mmd ot t'ie
political pr.ifiiples wh.h we proli f .
•1 uiy of the patriots ot t.'at great da)
iflJhjvh tried men's, fouls are iiiil tiie living
ibjects of our eti'vni. S&'afiiitigton lit .it
lie helm or our 'f,over on e.ii, we fee every
Uy. before our eyes men who have defied
..he sntri'»V*' of the British court, and tit
exit of Ytanklin we all remember. In'..
1 word, every tiling around tig con'pi-e
-----! oblige us to bear In mind the glory oi this
da;.
i (li.iuld he inexcu r etvble, therefore, gen
tlemen, in preying logger upon your at
tittipn Oil a si), jeet which it Isinipofnbie we
:ioultl ever forget we are not called up.
■on /o aliirtl te ea. h qiht-r v. ith fu.-uinati
ons us our duty, but it is incumbent itpvp
us to prtferve the f.icred tnt'l cotivmuei
rated to um 1 care. "1 he vefl .1 fire o. li
berty which bt'ims over the wide plains ot
Columbia, lightening and f'ni.iit; tr-. vviin
it' 1 - charming influence, i . conftg :ed to cs,
the riling ge 'M' itio:i; wliii" the ti i neco
tiitues to he fanned our qaiiuh win be ulu
mined by it's fp.eildor, peareand h-ipi-i
nefsfi; 11 Ihine .11 ever) b .ait. a ld waui
thofeofthe prtfoit age nnii recline ill th»
dust from the radi.'t fa le of freedom,
erected by tile patriots of *';<>, a lustre Hi.til
b" thed o i our poftcrity. But. my lrictid
if we neglect our charge and fitlfer th.a re
splendent blaze to expire, a horrid gloom
lliail lha.de lis and our u ienl'ghtened fuc
wiil only inherit a land darkened
by the bl-.ckeft clouds of tyranny and fu
pcrft.tion.
4th July, 1773.
Far the National Gazette.
CITI :EX'Fav!JiAO,
\T the time when I li.hmi(te"d my f-n
-----timents to the puolic 0.1 the impiopri
;.y ;ujd impolicy of ereiting a tioule tor itie
fep.iraie aid exciu'ive wo: (hip oi tne
Blacks, 1 i ttle fufpt nctiverfb f-ur
tilous and illiberal an answer as that
■ iich time ha; produced. At the lame
.1.1?..' 1 e.\ t'l.ft w'lii t men .1 id, wduld
touch 100 many ma ve.y delicate, part;
and, that, by exp 'tng the impropriety of
the plan, the vice; of 1 nil as irany, would
flare tiiem 111 the face:—Bt. ! who
Would have imagined, that • A i ivV. d to
Trii!'ri\ would itep forward armed' with
abnfe and ill nature, to defend so condemn
abie a fclieme !—Jeclaring at the fame
time, lie had no "intention of entering
into a pro'i c co»itroverfy" on the fubjeit;
bnt merely (111 order to (horten thedifpute]
to dri'jj, l e the iinprelfions my ideas hae
probably niHile 011 the minds of your read
ers and so give way for the triumph of tr;
more refit ed and titafurnd opinions—ln
deed, I must acknowledge that the jentle
ma 1 think* more favourably of hiuifell
than any ot his re., decs do; and he antici
pates more success than " /us piece'''' is like
ly to experience. " 1 he discerning public'
are »iO,t a ixiotls to enquire into the tftil
lity of every measure, before they g veil
their approbation. He need not imagine,
therefore, ahho' ''lie has launched forti
1 ito the sea of fmrrility and abuse afrei
previously fectliiiig the pilot of declamati
>11" that his voyage will he fc uncommon
ly fnccefsful. Convinced of this, permil
me to trouble you with a few obicrv ations
iin what that gentleman conceives himftlf
letter acquaint"d with th in any of hi:
neighbours: after which, farewell, thoi!
:h irming advocate of truth I
After having given every confideratior
to the fnbjeft, after recurring r;> the dteia
ration of tiie Africans themfclves, fev.,l nf
ter paying ai inuth regard to the opiniot
of the ' Friend to Truth." as his cwr
eulogium would permit, I tan perceive m
jnft grounds on u hich th ~ affotiation cm
bejultified; or can be even looked tip,.i
a: aimiag to relieve the dilireftes of tin
Africans. Even . dn.itti..g tlicin to hav.
(fad humane vietvsi.i forming tiie plan
the ionfeqtiences that would fuceeed it
maturity 1. finTuient 1 11 1 : n ity to blast it f
the bud. The Kpif. op ..lians|tlieFrefbyteri
.ir... tiorauyfe6lofreligion lis, bel evethat 1
wiikid ac uiii is rendered inm.ient by hav.
inga gocd entl in view. Be.aufc, if thi:
w ere the cale, robbtiy vXonld beavirtiif
if it were counnitttd with a to he
come charitable. So; in the pr-.-fent i; 1 -
fiance, we fee the j-% or: o';' the plnr
pleadingfharity, hti nauit) a <1 t: a» [uil.ty,
as an inducement t® coatiiLiute to clie fi>^>-
port of the scheme, which if allowed to be
completed, will I oner or later, fpiead
t: nhlc and ro'nftilion thro' the country.
The author oi the defence, whiie endea
vouring to prov* a nfifreprefentation o
mine, has 'ignorantly committed a more
unpardonable error than the one he fup
pofes(orar leaf} wipes') I was guilty of.
Had he been posTefiVd of penetration equal
ro hits ability to riiify, he might have con
cealed froi tile pu'oii'c, this open attempt
ptfiffiiftead their judgments or corrupt then
opinions j and fa prevented the censure of
a public who entirely disregard all the
praises he has JavHhed on himfelf and hi
bettors.—<—lt was never my intention,
or did I ever intimate it, that the
>ropofed the buiidtn;' o the houie to the
citizen®, drc v# out the Africans from a
n»ong them ; and "debanvd them from a
partici^atn in the exeVcifeof tht-ir toor
!iyp : allA\htch he has charged roc with
I fa id, fir, a ,ci was fhtLgemleiHan car-did, he
»voiiW cons" * it; mat it was not i« Afri
anstheihn?lvp» whofuggeiifrd the petition
hu ■■ junto (1 repeat the word) who de
tected them, and aimed at getting rid ol
.hem; rind a* the moil kfc coir pie; e mea ni
to ob a n this eud"they proposed a ckaritab 'i
ontributjon towards building a house f«».
heir w.<r, /• t :e.li' g the credulous black
aat they ougttt to 4k eiiabi.fn a church go
lernment of t! elr own, which would ic
:ure a happy r< inHous intercom fe belief<
each other and between the congregatio;
iftd their pallor 1 ' (and, in the mean iime"
rreatJy oblige* them.) The p«or blaci s
•t a i.v forefa w ti;e advantages, that wotrlr
irife ro themfeJves trom its execution;
eagerly cmbra«ed*&he pro.kn ed aHiftance :
Hid are now jrduonfly labomin;, for its
ompieiiou. Thus we evidently perceive
ilie object of our new *' Friend to Truth
For such frieir;lih.p tru;h will not; be grate
tui to him , fir <he alw ays w iihes to btr
f •*alie has i'rercted it.
Hew ex;rem.ly i mt>.a. he np
peair to ail, who examine the leading por
traits of his eflay, to nod him in one p ace
: >n#feflr >g his attachment to the cause oi
rhc blacks, end, in another, applying for
aiHicance to rhe battery from whence their
liberties have received the lore ft wounds.
The magnet that attracts them is now dlf*
:ovii;ed, and in vain they 'hive to remove
He deferred odium thai i-juft filling on
:r.eir ill concerted (chemc. Because the
black , led by th/r *perfua(ions, contented
Lo a reparation, it is uajuft to queltion its
Hopricty ! —This, this is the last retort rhe
tidvoc ies of slavery aild oppression can
Hal>e.
How often are in!lances forced oil us cf
HUves being offered their freedom . and
have refuted it ?—But do all these inftancc
Hcked as they are, contribute one tittle tc
Hftify their being feid inbondag,. ?—A
ii oh \uyman who oilers death or a ftirren
det* ol c.;Ai to the tr velier, on the lame
ds, and \ti v li equal pi optiety, isjuf-
Oifiabie in executing either. Cease then,
to move on such flight grounds ; place the
AfriAi in poffeflion of his natural rights,
and then ask him if he is willing to be ex
eluded from the fellowfliip of mankind.
I he Quakers. 1 believe, have been asbu
fy i." the above mentioned
any feet in the city, t • fequentlv it will
appear flrano.? to a ebfei ver, to fee fuel
zealous pie; 'lers for African freedom,
unite in a plan, wh ch he may conceive t<
be threatening to the freedom of eithei
the whites or the blacks. Such has b -en
nflfurprizv a short con* erf for
with whotfoes not .titink lef
of himfelf tlian ti-e uthcr of t;ie Friend tc
3frath, I difewered there was no exiui ;:
rule hi t-hat f<K that excuu.es ■
African from e... nwig the ottn e oi ;
preacher, hi t ftiil tliere is a law rigoronf
1} enforced in that community,, that
bars a person who is not born of }>artnt:
who are already membeiE. Upon tht
w hole,it appears,from the confeilion of th<
parry themselves, that these people are ft
mod eft: that thev vviil not siuiitly prohib i
them jrom acuuiring the common priviU
2,es, but conn aven'mtl rnles juake it impof
lible that eve/ any negro (liquid r.ie to.lht
fu!i6lions of a preecher.
A little exar ination into things are
their contingencies w ill comince the can
did part of tJ?e cojan-unity how much the
a'-ove mentioned piau ought to be depre
cated.
If, on the one-hand, the designs of the
;fiocjation f].< u'.cl fucceecl, whet would be
rhe con equ-'uee S 1 have already meerion
d the difpo'i'. : 'en- of the several flute go
v;ern,ments t .varc's the blacks. AlLrecog
n'zq their p/" aral rights te. be equally inde
[ Total Numb. 180]
fealible with the whites; and, thank hea
ven, by the unanimity of Amtricjns thry
•ft dearly put in the lull pofli-ffion of them.
But, when we view ihu renewed attempt
•Alperj mile them out c their liberties, <»r
it u' . toeftabhdi ani.iequality, asdre d
,fdl to the whites as it is territ'yinjr to the
happinf-fs of the blacks, we mult fuppefe
th.»t tiiere is either a fiidden change n. u e
popular opinion, or great e.irruption in
lume ot our leadingcharacters. It can nC-
\ c f he completely'eltefl'ed without / cri
ficing opinions w iell \\ e have idolizeti ,111,3
tneii tin; adoption. O:" it ue allow them
to have the fame claim, by nature, t - a
:iiare iij the happui. 1 o! every deparcm . t
of life, and pe: m.t them to be depriv ed of
it, where, I fay, Wi.ere is the Carrier to
def. /id our rights from the {Uint iuirin<>e
ment. 0
Hut, if on the other hand, their defiuns
:h>u:!d fail, and.iije; buildup of the church
honld be "tlfyp d in the bi d," our pros
pect 13 more open and n..t fu uupleafant.
, . "J P lat "' "«»»«• fame footing an.l
• 1 i-ed together, by mutual obligation:,
liifi.ee auu h. in.'ess in tie government an
unaninnty ayel contentment in obedience,
vou.d fucceexi. For, where the int. rests
•v tw 0 P« w «tul parties, who form the na
'.ion, cI a 0., theVe x \viil be difquj, n,de. nni:-
mur n..;, and not. Upon the whole, it nVft
e conn tied, even by, the molt nrcarici'.d
nut by remaining in the bonds of a natural
our their 1 ifl. would not be <0
• m-erons as jl a feparatiun Xliould take
-I;ji e.
11 n , Sir, I have endeavoured, rof only
rn' r? niyftlf, I'iji. at tlie tame time „
xpof. the weakntfs of the Frie> d to
«.nuh, 1. attempting to screen hin. fe'lf ,-d
;is Iron, the ce fur t , e
"no ,V /v a gtr ' tle,nan P e, ' |,fts '» lbe
. ] ,rilft l «>' <f-. I would he very
to meet hue with the we r,■./,
u:.,hed; A qutlilWi ~f
I le ; i,.portaticc, of the prcfent cauno: I.e
' ' or abnfe.' F-wu-.h. r
La:, Dceni « <! io paciiy t';e cM'Jc
"'lf lU fl.ali conctilde.*ijy
uidrefl.iig } . lew » wc , to | ; : n) in (n
tar, and then I stall te vc tilt ii:iai utc.llo*
so your reader...
SIP,,
I can never cosfent to facrW? » tf e
..eli,; of my own lentiwentf in order to
a'ccept joursj.altfto' yen have clet;■ , t ,
-now .1 ore ®: rhe iubject tin :i » ■ , •,
elte. My afiert wuhreg 1;, , ri .
prcjeftors ot the «:e,l g n, are a ;n> .
tne, and as tr.„<h to be relied
youi.% nnt.il yon produce vour name d
prove Jpourfelt'a manager. The puNic ,-iti
decice, t,om we:l k.ior. n facts, on tl-e pro
pTiety and nectffity of coiitnbtieinr. u.
completion. 1 i.ey can determine on the
unr.i.ariry you have rMtovcrid io be
iv een a bluck worshipping in a diCcrert
'■oule lrom a white, a..d n.en of<l,ftei-i-ns
ieiitiiiients wor.liippnig in different places.
II is not colour but principles thai o v.de
us. i.enieuib.er. Sir, that it is not as; . .
c; ent rectumnendatibn to youreiiav,oi i* -
the citizens w.I think any tiiin ■ the b- t r
01 sou for decorating it (vvhilc-lu tl-efa»;e
t.nv.-youd (piayed yourvarning) with t V o
whi-uS Oj iatiK. V. Ijen y, u next write lo
tin place popular pre; 1 dices, w rite in a man
er t. at y,. u m.y be -nnderflot d I v.tle
people and net« r apply to the inftrhmin
;a:,ty of public oncers. With thi fljort tid
vce, I Lave the ftihjeif. earnefiiy hopin:'
}'<"•' ' ail! be coin inctd fhat to ac. in
ypur chariicet is the only f ir way ;o ?», ,
£ent r:.l efreeni. Newer du nipt to mimick
iiie nian of truth ; for tie. few truths vou
nave re ye-1 led iii as ankwartily u. oi, von
as a parlon'a w i« on a (haveei rnonl' sv
A TRUE AMERICAN.
July 18
Foreign Affairs.
Report of Ce -eral Lamorliere. (I?ar:-
p.erreV fuceellor; en the battle of the fctfi
or May< 1-93.
" I HE a(T ir of the Br!i has been molt
glorio.u tor the arm of'the. republic, and
pioves ,11 the belt lmniur th d u:y of
the catife lor w huh' we are iijhti": g. At
ft yen in the mon:r-g for fidi wereti-e
order? of general C :ii]<ierr ijii .own :d
-----•lerin chief, th (!'•.!• rec; ot wir-.U
my fmal artny is con pofetl, aimcktd the
advanced puiis of J . ei'eniy ~\ r.e si ntr
was co.: piencfd by tl..\ jjif/dion under the
coirmand c-?i " I 1 • 1 rche-. who
V. aii to tliUov-t .uc lioillllieAbbey of Vigogne, and from the different
entrenchments which they had in the wood
or' St. Amand. The general and our brave
brethren in arms presented themfelve*
with unex ltnpled courage and intrepidity
They overcame incredible ©bftacles, as ai
every step they found entrenchments, from
which they drove the enemy, who wer.
every where far superior in number, not
witliftanding batteries of 17 pounders which
they continually employed againtl us.
"Delpourches had taken pod on the plat
form of the Abbey of Vigogne, where he
cntrenched hiinfelf.and kept up a brilk fire
from a quarter pait 7 in the morning until
9 in the evening, I had fuccefsfuliy fen,
him a supply ofprovifions and ammunition,
winch he i ivain expeited from Valencien
res. This general oißcer used all his ef
fo -ts to have his right wing covered by the
left flank of general Hedon v lie, who at
tacked Rhemes at the fame time, but he
could never fticceed, except in regard tc
the few ch ifleurs. It appears, that the
enemy loft a great number of men, we ea
alfo forne bra'e soldiers killed.
•' This diyifiou lay on their ast al
night, in the wood of St. Amand Itaiii
ins; their pofidon, and will thi- norninj
vcoatinue their attack, which cannot be
made with advnntage unless they can unite
on . le rip;ht wing with divisions orderec
to dislodge the enemy from the wood oi
Rheme~.
•' At the moment when Defpourch-s at
tacked with my dvanced guard, 1 march
ed igtitift the enemy encamped near St.
A nand in two different points
"They m ide a more feeble defence thai
they did t e preceding evening, aid en
devoured to draw m-near the town 01
canfewav ; but having determined not u
take p )ii'jfin of it till th.y fh -uld bi
d veil from R 'ernes and Vigogne. I o 11-
pit'd til 'in in (iiffereut points a,,d al el.ffer
ent timet, to render my diversion inure
us "11 .
*• I direited several attacks on my left
b >th against Lecelles and against = mil
where the enemy were poited, andiron
•wlfch they were driven with loft. Mj
chafl.'iirs fired even under the camp a
Jvianldc, where they >vere entrenched
and having received intelligence that th<
Auftrians were join;; toeftaWilh themfelve
at Bauchain, I carried three battallion am
j : pieces of cannon to my polt of BelU
Porte.
•General Chaumont, who was ordere)
to kaep open mv communications fro>
l?eile Porte as far as Nache, several time
chefked the enemy, who endeavoured u
f urn my kfl flank, and to cat off my re
treat.
' General Dampierre had written to mi
to repair to h,m myfelf, or to fend to llin
a confidential person. I ch-irged with thi
mi lion adjutant general Dupont, and i
could not have chosen one more diftin
gu led in every refpeel, or who is m'rin
z-a us ill the lervice of the republic.
'• 1 cannot <o;> much praise the coura '<
o our brave defender . they difplayt-d re
publican valour, and observed a difeiplim
-which gives t ie greatcft hope - of the fuc
cess of our.a nis. I'liey are fatigued, bill
they never lose the cheerfulncfs which i
infepirable from a good cauie
'• My fm ill army 101 ..Is ot>roops frnrr
P may, the lan p near Lille & the advanc
ed 'lofts o" the latter.
«■ P. S. *t nine this morning the troop:
ai e under arms. They will keep the ene
my in cnec< while Defpourches i ; making
effoets to drive them from the abbey oi
Vigogne. I have no doubt of their fuccefi
it tiie'v can be joined byHedonville. I arr
gom to proceed to hi- polt when I have
viewed those which arc in front and on mj
left fl.ink. ' 'I forgot to mention that ot
tli evening of the Bth of May, as we were
returning to head quarters we observed the
Abbey of Vigog it in Amies. It was fe!
on tire by cur howitzers, and as the flunci
raged violently, I am induced to thinl<
that the magazines ot the enemy niuft be
consumed. Prifoflers taken at Vigogne
are continually coming in ; there are 2
great many Englishmen among them, anc
many wounded."
Abjlracl cf Intelligence by the laji
arrivals, (to May 24. J
Early in the morning of the Bth of May,
an army of the combined forces, headed by
the Duke of York, marched from Tour
nay to M m'de, which place they reached
abouc-8 A. Al. At nine the aftiou com
menced with the French army, under gen.
Dampierre, and continued with great vi
g tur on both fides till about five ill tile af
ternoon, when the Prulians began to live
vay. from the fe' ert fire of the French,
till the Duke of York came to their aflilt
ance. and with several regiments at tirft
repulsed the republican fori es, till assailed
by thr heavy ft e of a French battery,
which they intended to attack,but finding it
iiunolfible, made a retreat. Upwards of
70 o. the Britilh were kill d in this attack
The battle continued with this and the
other par;s of the two armies till nile in
tiie evening. L» this c ly's bulinefs the
An ftia.is by their own accounts loft 00
men and the- Feu'iians he i reiich
a.corung to aciounu by dtjertm, loft
-4500 men, killed and v.'Our.Jed. General
Dampierre, who commanded the French,
received a cannon ball, alraolt (pent, in his
thigh, and died in consequence os-it on the
morning ot' the 10th. General Lamorliere
Succeeded him ill the command* On the
)tii of May therq was some cannon.iding,
but early in the morning of the iiththfe
Auftrians and Prjiffians drove the French
from their batteries, and took pel'Vfiioil ol
eir polls in a wood. The French how
ever had previoufiy removed all their can
non. In this whole affair the French
hewed the greatest relu&ance 10 lire upon
he B'ritifh. avd in every initance ceased to
fire upon them the moment they began tu
retreat. Sacre Dien (said a French officer
to one of the Enjjlilh prisoners) why are
those free and gallant l?ritons come hither
todeflroy lis or be destroyed ! We have no
quarrel with them ; we are only contend
ing far that liberty which they enjoy, and
which they purchased at the expense of
the belt blood of their vceftors —When
the attack ceased. on the i;th. the Auf
trians fell back to their old ports; altho'
Hill in hopes to be able to drive the French
to their own fortified town, on the fron
tier: As to entering France, that was
another story. O'her accounts fay that
the united loss of tne Priillians and Airltri
ans was 2500 men; very few prisoners
were taken on either fide, and no cannon.
It was observed that the Pruflians had not
that stomach to figfct as formerly under the
great Frederick ; and had 110 artillery
with them except what is supplied by the
Auftrians. Want of provisions was again
becoming a serious evil among them, and
it was certain unless the campaign was
brought to a fpeeily conrlufion, the coc
plaint would become universal.
11 appears that the armies on the fron.
tiers have had several, less important, ac.
tio k ls th in the above, but none of them de
cifive. It is certain the war was not ac
tively pursued by any of the powers con
cerned in it, and one thing is remarkaole,
that the French troops are generally the
alfailants in every aftioa ; a proot that
they are not intimidated by the German
troops. The cou ltryi.i the vicinity oi the
armies in the Netherlands, isliteraliyeaten
up by the troops employed there. The
1 rench are wife enough to keep the war
beyond the limits of their own country.bj
which means they receive constant sup
plies, but famine fcegan i.eady to dare the
despotic forcej in the face so early as the
middle of May.
It is r.fl" rted that the division of Poland
by the Ruffian and Pruiuan trosps, wa-: i
le ret to t'ie Britilh court till t'-.e moment
it wa effefled. Prizes are rccip ocall)
taken at sea by the maritime powers a:
war, but such is the ast vity and enterprise
of the French, t.iat the ladance was uni
erfally allow ed to be in their favour. A
number of captures made from the French
are retaken by their cruisers A private
letter, and indeed aH the-letter from Fll
- '.represent the i npoffi ijlityof reducing,
or even penetrating France, unless there is
a riling 01 the people againlt their own go
vernment, of. \\ hich there was not, when
these accounts left Furope, thefhadow of 6
probability. It appeared that the ultimate
dependence of the combined powers wa
0-1 the internal diffeations 111 France; il
fhele did not fut-ceed very soon, so a, to
etfeft a counter-revolution, the republic
was forever eftabliflied.
In the Knglifh minillerial papers there arc
many reports of infurrre£tions in Brittany
and other parts of France, and in one of
those papers, of May 23d, there is an ac
count of Nantz Surrendering to the roval
ifts 011 the 21 it of April. It is certain the
royalilts were never more a£live than ;u
this time in France. Several engagement;
had taken place between the insurgent* and
the patriots, nearly 2000 of whom i©d beer
flaiii in the department of tne Loire. The
weltern departments were also more or lef
agitated by the emifiaries of treachery anc
counter revolution, and it was said thai
the territory of Indre and Loire wa, ac
tually in pofleilion of the rebels, with the
towns of Breliuire, Tours, and Loudon.
The great cause of their fucqefs was the
treason of general <Jtiiteneau. an ageni
of Dutnourier, who with an army of
made no refinance to the rebels, but sur
rendered. General Ligonier had succeed
ed him, and was making head with fuccef
againlt the rebels. The Convention de
creed 011 the 10th of May, that eijjht bat
talions (hould be immediately organized tc
march agaiklt the i.ifurgents. Paris hac
already supplied her quota of troops to
march againlt them.—Captain Clements,
commander of a Britilh fquadrom Wfore
Dunkirk, on the 24th of April, (Vnt a fum
1110ns to the French general, commanding
the army at that place, to surrender : and
offering the protection of hngland till the
Confutation co di be life Liijhed on aJhiic
basis. To tills inloleaceihe French com
mander iir.ined.a-ely reiu-ned a fpiiited
answer, declining all epi!tolar> corrdpon
r'ence ; inviting h.in to attack the place,
and he fliould then have fucti an answer as
>ught to terminate all dHluilions between
people of the military cloili.
I ne Auilrlans hadmade a requisition of
supplies from Great Britain, particularly
for 40,000 tons of hay, without v. hich,
they aflured the mi iift'trs. they could not
keep the £?id. The requisition tilled act
less than Sixteen (lieets of paper. All the
necciTaries of flour, oats, beer, pork, peas,
and in Ihort provisions of all kinds, clothes
of every kind were enumerated, without
the aid of which they could not go on—
These circumstances gave great cause of
murmur in England, and it was thought
the demand would go a great way towards
detaching England from the league ot
powers.
On the 28th of April a detachment of
French troops lauded at Gndavefberg, near
B rankfort, about one in the morning, and
advanced unperceived to a battery at which
a detachment ot Pca.fi 1a cannoneers had
been working all night, and where they
were then lying down to reft themselves.
The attack was so nnexpe£fed, that thole
who were not at firll killed or made pri
loners, endeavoured to save themselves in
the neighbouring batteries, but the French
pursued them so closely, that the Saxon
troops, charged with guarding the other
batteries, yielded also to the inipetuoli y
ot tile assailants- The French spiked up or
deltroyed all their artillery, killed a great
number of officers and niatroifes, and tarried
olt a considerable number of prisoners. The
t reach d.d not lose a (ingle man.
General Paoli, at Coriica, h»d refufed
to obey the detsree of tlie Convention to
deliver up the fortifications of that ifl.uid
to the Trench co nmilfioners; arid different
municipalities of the idand had offered to
aSift him, if neceifary, an army of
1 j, 000 men: Yet many 'of the ifiander
had receded from their zeal in protesting
their genera!, having delivered t.p feverai
forts into the hands of the trench.
Six regiments had embarked from Ire
land, joined by 700 enrgrants, to afiiiVrht
infurgenr royalilts on the banks «f t!ic
Loire. The tirtt obje£t of their attack
was to be Nantz, in Brittany. Lord Hoot
was to fail with lies fleet about the 25th o!
May, fdppofsd to favour a descent 011 the
weitern coast of France. The
manned their fleet with the iitmbil difii
cnlty, a.id at the molt extravagant rates.
Tlie Emperor of Germany had agreed t<
exchange general Bournonville, and the
other French comniiiSoners given hp tu
him by Duinoiirier, for Conn: Leniingei:
and others, now held at Paris as homages.
It the French did really lose 4cc? m.-r
(the French acc tint of the matt A' fays 11c
(iicti thing) on the Sth of May, they were
not much disturbed by the dreaqful wash
01 blood, for they not ori'-y kept the field,
lut fought agfein th next cay ; r>r;d on tin
loth it appears that they retired in peiTeci
good order, carried olf their cannon leav
ing the empty batteries in tlie j owi'r o
their cne.nic. , and u e.e neither purftied 01
annoyed by the greatand mighty combine,
armies.' TreaTon inde.d feetas much nior.
tu the relish of tilt u palates than fij h'.ing.
There appears a linking degree of i.nac
tion in the Britilli naval forces. This ex
cited surprize in some, while others ima
gined the ra;>!e to arise from some negoci
atious on ;oot for a ftp.irate peace \fit!
France. It was fur.her said that the Na
tional Convention had offered to refcini
the vefolution of :iie 19th of December lait
011 which the B'itiiti Iniaillfy founded hof
tilities, viz their determination of extend
ing the principles of -fraternity to anyothe
Hate- lii which cafe the Frer.ch might Lu
defiance to ail that Aultria and I'ruffia couii
bring against them.
'the head quarters of general Ctiftint
are at Weifl'enberg : the am y under hi
command is jo.cco strong, and in a uiof
d vantage ou position, being mcampcc
between Weifienberg and Lauterbarp
flron;-ly entrenched", and their works luai
be deemed a ui dier-piece of military ar
chiteiture. On one fide of the eainp is tin
Rhni£, ou the other a vast iiuf.iy heath
which reaches to the Vofgefian mountains.
As longai Cuftine can maintain thispofition
it was allow d to be impofiibie for the
Austrian and Pruifian armies to perforß:
ally important exploit.
Advices had be<?n received in England
'not official) that a Ruffian and Sweddl
leet were getting ready for an expeditioi;
:o the coalu < f Fiance; to be lurnilhev
* ith 40,000 seamen, and 14,000 marines,
iv«o uei e to attempt a landing famew hett
between Brest and in aid of the in
"urgent*, who mere expeflcd to join theft
foroign forces with jo, Or to 000 Nor
mans and Bretons, extlufive of the nume
rous concealcd mal-co,tents iiong tin
.oalt, and thus united, attempt a counter
revolution.
Fcr the National Gazette.
To X. Y. junior, a writer i 1 the Feierc..
Gazette, of Fridav, the 12th inltant.'
■SIR,
yHt plausible declaration prefacing ycu'
late production, will rail induce me to
iippofe, that yon have iominented autl t
frem motives purely patriot re, virti)ons
and dilinterelted. No iir : the wbjeit and
tendency of your Efi'ay prove the contr >r)
I apprehend you have embarked m ass an
ilaious a cause as evardifgracea the ill.no
or pen of a\y fcribler. However, you a, e
not accufad of being the origin : No: cir-
Lumft uii.es authorize a lieliei that you aie
the instrument only . How reputable, f.ou
d:g:i;liL-d the agency ! —to be a jackall, and
that to mi iniel'iwr -animal! Misery and
ought ever to be dteu.ed fit
ered. If impelled by tlie preflingnec flity of
either of these motives you have nn.
ken the bufmefj, you are in part excniable
To Tome inch cause mult be attributed
your interference, as I cannot suppose a \y
peiTon so toft to decency and truth, as u
volunteer in so base j cause.
You not only fath?r, and advocate the
obloquy and scurrility poured forth by
your namesake X. Y . in Mr. Brown's Fe
deral Giizeti e of the 10th inllant, agamlfc
Mr. Genet, the French mimlter, but sllfc
continue the fame strain of illiberal mouIV,
and that without a lhadow of provocation,
againlt the calm a id temperate remarks
of the writer who hinjfelf An Alop~
ted Citizen, whose sole oi 'k'cl appears ro
have been to prove, arguing from princi
ples of policy and common sense, that tlie
intereit of the Union collettively was pro
moted in proportion to the number of
persons who came from other countricv t&
elide among us, and that such ought m
be coufidered us objects rather of encou*
ragement than defamation. However, it
is but too rhanifeft, that ynti were not em
ployed lor the purpofo of overthrowing
irgnments. No : you have prosecuted a
aulinefs apparently more %>ngeniai to your
dwii mind, namely, scurrility and perfon
afabufe.
Your indignation, Sir, seems to know
no limits when you come to mention fo
reigners. In jotvr mind it is a crime to
be born out of the United States. Unfor
tunate aliens ! what will become of you,
asour author will, no doubt, ailert, when
he next refutne.vhis pen for the purpose of
informing the public mind, that Adam
was a V ai:kee, and New England the gar
de ■< of PsradiJe, that both himfeif and his
beloved cruntellor were siefcended in a
right line from Abel's brother, and that
from these confiderarions no emigrant or
foreigner ought to cope with them, or ha
zard even a remark where native and real
Americans are concerned. But, Mr. X.
Y. Junior, is not jour employer in this
dirty bu finds an emigrant i is he not a
turbulent enc, and on this account totally
unfit lor the business in which he is ergag-
Permit me. Sir, before I takd Ttiy leave
oifyou, to alit ho v yotj would like, circum
llanced as you arc in this city, to have
your mall: torn off, and be held up to pub
be view asthe ' ife inllriment of calum
ny and the aitallin of private character?
would not such an exhibition prove your
ruin? Hid you for a moment reflected
n the tit 1 iiery and breach of confidence
inanifelted 5y your employer in the hints
he gave you as the outlines of your efl'ay,
you would with indignation have spurned
..he dirty j b. fl<uvever, Sir, I leave you
for tire present to the uninterrupted en
joyment of the ui'ual confeejuences of limi
lar production . namely, vexation, dijap
■ o.utment, and nmcje.
PAULUS.
Jul> 16.
For tht National Gazette.
F EING afpeftatorat the late perform
ance of Mr. Rickets, which was intend
ed for thebenefitofthe poor,l was natural
ly led to fun ey the number and characters
us the company who had so eagerly em
braced an opportunity to second the liberal
designs of the performer; and I was hap
>y to disco: er that it was compofeii of the
jc-lt of our citizens j who, no doubt, walk
ed to the Cireus, not to gratify their eyes
ly viewing the exploits of a Hulled horfe
nan, or the conumptiblt scene of Johnny
3ilpin,of please theirhearing by the trifling
ivit of the Clown ; but, merely to erjay
'Jie Jatitfaltiou of contributing to alleviate
'he diflrejjes jgf the vjrttched. These pious
gentlemen, (who lately opposed a (imilar
iuiufeiueut,) through the exercise ol the
.veiling evidenced the fatisfa&ion they felt
from the abilities of the performers, and
he jollity of certain contingent circum
tanees. It aituaiiy appeared as if the huz
sa bad become aCuoihrute for amen.&ias
one hand met the other instead of the
breast.
1 am jaflihed in making these strictures
nn the appeal ance of such gentlemen " in
'uch a place." : 0111 the inconsistency it will
donbtlefs form in their characters, it is
certain that pcrfunj were prefenr ivho
: itely, in a violent manner, opposed the
legality of Theatres ; and who hav re
fined, or similar oe< alions, to cast in their
mite; all b cause the Theatre was made
the channel! \> lien a deltru£tive fire re
duced fevtral valuable citizens to great
exigencies, the Old American Company
ativcrciied anigbt for their relief, and in
.n.de having a crowded house, (as was
the cafe w nk the Circus) to their own tuk
pnze - lid regfel, ti'.cy found themle.vts
unable to grant more than 178 dollars.
Tins i fiance proves that the prejudices
of the fe' men are so implanted in them by
education, that in one instance they reject
the reafo 1, Jiitl in tlie other gladly vindi
cate it propriety by their own exampJe.
Let ludi men anf'.ver, whether there is
more criminality in attending the Theatre,
than ill placing ihemieUes in a barefaced
nianuer to vie u the more trifling and lejt
iujtrn.ii. at; iiii tne-i 1s? of the Circus.'' Let
th':",!i, 1 n bed iu their holy vestments, put
their hands 011 their 1:> .rts and declare luch
c:np.< v i.n'j.t t.eii'c tdtfying than lilleniujto tUe divine precepts that liajwell incul
cates, or tiitf more rational aiuufenaents ot
the itage.
I would now observe, that in faying
whet I have, I tlo not aim at difcounte
nancing the employment of Mr. Rickett».
On the contrary, I think he has received
110 more encouragement than his profi
ciency in his occupation deserves. Besides
being a manly exercise, horsemanship is a
profeffion for which I have always had :i
respect; and which, I think, ought to be
cultivated in the United ?tates. I hope,
therefore, Mr. Ricketts, or anv of his
cn-mpcmy, will not conceive that I wilh to
reflect on their occupations ; for if nothing
else, the late i haritable performance would
p : ice th'em out of the reach ol (lander. I
only meant<*remind the religions part o!
the community of the uniformity it would
be proper they should preserve in their
actions.
A FRIEND to CONSISTENCY.
July 18.
For the National Gazette.
Mr. Freneau,
f S the authority of Burl AM Aou i may
- * be, at leaji, equal to • , Pacificus"wbofe
■writings like hi reports are pregnant with
sophistry and deception, I request you will
give the following extra£ls from thisjuftly
celebrated author, a place in your paper.
" Public treaties are divided into rent
end per/anal—the latter are those made
■with a pr rice, purely in regard to hi per
son, and exp ; rc with him. The former
are fin h. are made rather with the
whoie body ol the (late, than with the
king or government, and which conse
quently outlive t iofe who uiade them and
oblige their successors.''
" To know to which of these twoclnfT »
every treaty belongs, the lollowing rule,
may be laid down:
lit. We mull fir ft attend to the form
a d phrase of the treaty, to its cltules, nnd
tVj views proposed by the contracting par
ties—" Utrum autem in rem. an in pe -
so lam factum eft, non minus ifc erbi ,
quam ex mente convenientium aelMnan
tluin eft," Thus, if there be an exprcf
clause, mentioning that the treaty is per
petual, or fur a ccrtain number f years.
or for the good of the fta'e, or with the
king for htm and his flit cellors," we ma)
conclude that the treaty is real.
idly. Every treaty made with a repub
J'u is in its own nature real, becatife tnt
fabjeft, with whom we contract it, is <
thing permanent.
3d. Though the government fliouk
happen to chaiig-from a republic into £
monarchy, the treaty is ilill in force, be
cause tliebody is still the fame, and has on
ly another chief."
4. "We must however make an excepti
on here, which is, when it appears thai
the prefervatiott of the republican govern
ment w-.s the true cause of the tre.-ty;
ns when two republics enter into an alli
ance, by which they agree to aflift 011 c
another, againll liich as (hall endeavoui
to Iter tlu?ir constitution, and
deprive them of their liberties."
sth. In cafe of doubt, every public treat>
made with a king ought to be deemed real
because, in dubious cales, the king is sup
poled -o a:t ak chief, ai.d for the good ol
the state."
Gih, Hence it follows, that as after the
change of a democracy into a monarch)
the treaty is (till in force, in regard to tilt
new sovereign ; so if the gtvernmcnt.fi on
.1 mo tarchy,becomes a repub.ic, thi. tr&atj
made with the k\"g dues uct expire, unlet:
it was raaiiifeftly personal."
1 ihould be glad to know il the long win
d, d lucubrations of " Pacificus" have 1101
been much aiSfted by the counfelsofT —.11
his frequent and lengthy \ifits to a certaii
country feat near this city ? The honora
t>te employments inwhicliT.hao been enga
ged. together with his -very great intima
cy with certain chara£ters,render it highly
probable that he has contributed his (hare
111 iriiig to efiablilh a Carthaginian
system oi'fath in the United States—Virtu
ous American? ! Hippy country! whei;
crimes lhall be a recommendation to no
tice, and the basest treachery a letter ofin
troduclion to the carclTes of the efftcets 01
a free government!
TURGOTi
July 16 1793.
Pour le Gazette Natlonale.
Si la Raifon ne pent vaincre -cos prtjuges,
ne blamea pas Us peup'es d\n expofci
leurs fo'tblejfes, ni meme de retourir avx fa
ges expedients, de la Cant erne et dc la
Guillotine.
•jSjOBLES, et presidents, bien nes et fe
* nateurs, *•
Etres penfiones, et voiis agiotetirs,
Ayant vu pa. hazard dans certaine Gazette
Qu'un prix etaii ofFert pour le m'eiileui
poete,
Qui faurait par chansons, otes, loiKts,
I'Oluk lUJij
Epigrames, stances, impromptus, madri
~gaux,
Fair foner aa loin, vos pompcs magmn
ques !
Vos vertus! vos talents!!! et vo;
grandeurs antiques !
Je vais les annoucer, brillants comme
l'cclair,
Et vousfaire fortir du fang de Jupiter.
Vos niaitreffes feront am in tea et fiddles,
i oitjonr- dans leur printems, et comtam
ment pucelles :
Malgre qu'elles vous font des infidelites
.-.t lbyiez par voj maux, a baver condaal
nes.
Enfin je n'oublirai, ni prones ..... ni lotf
anges,
Qnoique, maitres fripons, vous paraitres
des anges.
L'on vous elevera dans tous lieux de:
autels ! a
lit vos noms deviendront a jamais iinmor
tels !
rtpour que vos foyiez entre vous uni
formes
Figures, qualites; egaux en toUtes formes:
Geux en qui d'entre vous, ont tail
cocus*
&uront par nies accents, ces bourgeon:
rab.ittus.
Vlais il faut, mes seigneurs, de i'argent, et
de graces.*
\iitrement vos ferez de villaines grimaces.
Qnoique c'eit en Gaulois, je me inets dan:
le rang
Etdifpute la course, au coufm Jonathan, t
?our cette course enfin rnon crayon le pre
pare.
On. li vous voulez, j'pfp're au candid t,
Vinfrque Jonathan, de ce beau tintamarrt
Que vous voulez nomer Puete Lauteat.
Le tafle courone, graces a Ton genie
3evait dans foil cflor ineriterde 1 encens
3 uis-qu'il fut applaudi, des terns ou L
Italie
Vpirait de la Grece aux plus males ac
cents.
'etrarch.enforcele, de lacharmanteLaure
Vlerita par son cueur, comme par le:
chanlons.
Ju'on le recouronat, du j >ur, jufqu' a 1
aurore :
,e moats ne font atteints, que par d'auf
li beaux sons !
'adin' re avec re~peß,le magsanime Pierre J
J -rce qu'ii tlagella le Lunauque Anglais
,'eit a dire, le R..i de cette race alciere)
2_ui craignant pour sou cou, tremble dan:
fun palais.
•?f Coctis. Jonathan pourrait lmaginei
[ne je le eopie, inais ceti a fete ecrit depui:
u-deux fem.nnes : car, comme je tranf
■ris le prefrut, je recois e. j'obfcrve, Odi
✓ it. To the Weli-Hor;i »re 3#d line—
- Of Gods that had tUeir dads cornuted.'
t Voyes, Probationary Odes of Jouathai
°indai , Ejq.coufin of Peter Pi dnr. it,
c vera 1 ! numbers of the Nation# i Gazette.
I Peter Pindar.
PROBATIONARY ODES
of JokATH an PiNdah, Esq.
(Cnnfiuutd.)
ODE vlll.
To MINOS.
i Jura Siletitibus
Rediit : Ovid.
■vj'F.RN Ju Ige of Shades ! reviiit'si
thou this earth
To try us all, ere we have crofs'd lh<
Styx ?
Not only punifliing our childilh tricks,*
:sut damning us, by wholesale, from oui
birth!
As moral iodic:, STATES, no doubt
have fouls.
Which brings them all within thy jui ii
dietion.
And since no earthly judge thy voici
contrwuls
They niuit be AvoirtA,-without a legal fic
tion.
Thine EMINENT BoMAiNj, what Stall
opposes.
Or dares remember it was sovereign
once !
Since to the grindstone thou haltbroughi
their noies
Thou'lt leave among them not a Englt
sconce.
Their little corporations all (hall meli
In the hot crucible that holds thy brains,
'Till not a fingU particle remains
Of all the fancied Sovereign I v
they've felt :
Avoicelhall then be heard in Con
grefs-Hall,
STATES are no more— and WE arc
ALL in ALL !!!
* The hasty nieafures adopted by form
of the Hates at the comment einent of the
ate revolution, which cooler politician:
:i ive lince condemned.
•{ ItVas been aliened by the moltgiavt
:i ,d lea lied authority of Judge Minos
•Mat by he right of eminent domain, tbt
United States, even before the adoptioi
ni the present conllitution. might bv then
treaties annul the alts ol the States, al
though at that time i>iqueJliQuai>ly fove-
£* i"i i JLi A i L L l I*l 1 A.
Saturday, july2o.
Yesterday arrived nere the brig John,
captain vVhitweil, from AmUeruam.
By this veiiet, which brings news trom
that port du.' n to the 17th May, we learn
turn the affairs of trance are in a more
prosperous lituation than the people here
(conudering tne information heretofore
received; can form any idea of—that the
mod lingular luccefs attends their armie;
every where —that it is with the greateti
diriiculty, with tne molt arbitrary proceed
ings, tliat the combined powers are able tc
iceep tlieir troops in tiler held —licknefs, fa
mine, a:id defeat are never abl'ent from
tlieici.
The papers printed in Amsterdam ars
inspected, by the autiionty, before they
i. e permitted to be publilhed.
Great Britain, the captain informs, ha;
made propoutions for peace—these wert
rejected iy the National Convention.
On the 7111 of May, in the House of
Commons of Great Britain, after a long
Jeoate, in which the house grew excee
dingly clamorous, on tne proportion 01
iVir. urey, tor a committee ot enquiry in -
to the parliauiciua. > reprefentatiori, a di
k .lion tooic place at 4 o'Uock in the morn
ing, when there appeared ißj againlt the
iiiotnm , for it, 41 —majority againlt it,
m» hundred and forty-one.
We are intormed that 30 fail of Freacli
mips from Cape francois, now lying it
iiampton road, Virginia, may be expectec
round to this city in a few days.
The French armed brig Little Democrai
has left New-Caltle u d proceeded to (ti
0:1 a crude. She has 011 board i2ochoicc
men, commanded by Captain Amiot.
The eoterpnze of the Eugliih upon Mar
tinique, roui various accounts, it now in-
Lonteltibly appears, is abandoned, witl
some loss 011 tiieir fide. Ihe following
particulars of the attack are the molt au
Lhentic. A defceut was elfeited and the
losv 11 of St. Pierre was attempted by tin
Englilh 011 one fide and a lmall party 0]
arntocrats on the other at the faint
time. Th« ati'ailants were repulsed ir
both quarters and the Eugluh experience*]
1 loss of about 400 men ; the Admiral':
iliip also fuftered some injury.
file federal executive, we underflantl,
;ave sent for four of the U. States' judge;
.0 take their opiniorts on (oine part of otii
:re-ty_ot amity and commerce u ith trance.
A French liny of 18 guns has captured,
ind Vent into Chef peke bay, a Dutch fliip
with a cargo oil board worth two million;
if French livres (150,000!. this currency),
extract us a letter from a gentleman ,1:
Londonderry, to his friend in Philadel
phia, dated 14th of May, 1793.
*' (jne of the molt prominent features iti
:he bad lorttlne of the French is, tii de
ertion of Dumourier. His co, duff re
:alis to every one's mind the eVer memo
■auie treason of your Arnold. ii the
talt magnitude of the combination agqintl
trance —a combination not to be equalled
,n the aun.ds oj mankind, that one thinks
it impollible for the new republic long tc
witnltand it. In this combination of all
rlie powers of Europe, the molt formida
ble and determined is England. John Bui!
10 longer talks of merely beating the
French 1- formerly, but of absolute exter
mination, or a complete rcftoration o!
oyalty, the nobility, and the clergy.
'• Suite 1 wrote to you, a great change
lis taken place in Ireland. The found ol
-efortnation and of l.berty is rto longer
• eatii. tvery writer, printer, or publilh
:r, Who dares .o whilper a sentiment hof
::le to the present iyttem of toerc un, i>
joth fined and in.prnoned, either by tht
ufuai courts ot jultice, or by the Secret
.omiiiitite of the House of Lords. Tc
::.rvy 1 he lyftein into effect, a great miliia
y Force has been brought into the country
Ind a body ot lixteen thotlfand militia i;
low r.iiinig, to enforce the 11 e. fures ol
,vbat is emphatically termed " a ltrdnggo
r eminent."
' So intcilt is England on the Conquefi
jf France, that the infamous difinember
nent of Poland is Hardly mentioned. It
ias been tiio't by fume, that if the combi
let! tyrants can effectually subdue France,
hey intend to parcel out your cou iti y
imong them —and thus ever)
park of liberty in the worltl
We learn, from an arrival at Baltimore,
hat (00 of the Britiih guards fell in ihe ac
lon with the French on the Bth of May,
learTournay ; and that the combined ar
uie - had retired from before Conde.
f here is a report in (from Balti
more) that Cape Framois is retaken from
; ;ie Commilfioiiers, by a regiment and fonu
. olunteers from fort Dauphin; that th
mulattoes and negroes had been defeated;
md that Santhonax had lolt his head.
AVeflel arrived at Baltimore, in 32 day
from Cork, brings an account of thede
feat of the combined armies at Conde, and
at an immtfnfe (laughter amdnglt them.—
fh. t the French armies havingheen so fuc
lei'ful, the people throughout Fug
land and Ireland, are seeking for
md it was the prevailing opinion it would
oou take place, highl) in favor, and mu.h
O Wv IW.l'Vl' of Hie i'I«UVU IMileUt
We hear that the fortifications on Muck
Island are repairing, and feviral-cannoii
mounting for tiie det'etice of the river. A
-ompany of militia is already stationed
there, to berelie\ed weekly.
There are now nine American veifels at
»t- Kitts, carried in by Britljh privateers,
nd tlieir cargoes condemned on pretence
jf tlieir being French property, iperely be
taufe they were bound to the French
idands, and no allowance made even lor
rreight. Thus are Americans and their
property treated by this degeneiate racej
who—
"Find it fafer thro' the Teas to go
And rob a stranger, than despoil a loe.'
There are also twelve American veifels
yingat New Providence, who by this time,
t's thought, are condemned on the fame
limfy pretence. Tliefe fellows ha- e the
mpudence to carry 111 every Am.ric n
?eflel they take, with the Union reverted.
The American Hag has there, as well as in
jthers -jf tlieir islands, been treated <\itli
rvery degree of disrespect.
A French East-India iiiip, from Pondi~
:herry for Fran e, was .aken in May last
>y the British frigate Thetis. On her way
o the Englifli Channel (lie was retaken by
he Robert privateer, of Na:itz, and ear
ned into that poi t. The cargo was wortli
ioo,oool. lterling.
By a letter from a gentleman at Buff doe
lireek (jfimilas above Niag ira)dated June
welearn that tlje commiflioners for trea
iilg with the northern Indians were then at
Miagara, and in great hopes of effecting
:heir purpose. The fix nations appeared
:o be friendly, and the Complanter and
Big Tree were Collecting their people to
to to the treaty. The Sandufki Ind'ans
were not expected to be collected till about
;he firft of July. Other aecmnts fa;', that
:he Indians will not treat unless the com
■niffioners consent to a cession as far as the
Ohio and Mufkingum.
[ From a Corrcfpondtnt.]
The enemies of republicanism and equal
rights are already sensibly affected at the
profpeft of the eftablifliment of Democra
tic Societies. A parcel of little hau kers
Having some how or other wriggled them
"elves into wealth, and from carrying, per
laps, a pedlar's pack, having by the events
»f the times, acquired the lofty air and
[trut of gentlemen, cannot, forfootb, benr
:he thoughts of political equality. Societ
ies of this kind are a death-ftroketo
tnd baffle all their hopes of ever arriving
:o be lords, dukes, or ki-igs ; or nietamor
ihofing their wives into countefles, dut
;helfes, or my-laiies.
Jn the aad Aricle cf the treaty of amity
ind commerce between the U. States and
France are the following words :—"lt shall
lot be lawful for any foreign privateer notr
Jelonging to French citizens, or citizens of
he United States, to arm their veifels in
lie ports of either nation " —Nothing -a .
:>e plained than this clause of tile article,
« h cli places the French and Americans
jpon the fame footing on the score of arm
ng : yet vefl'els under French natisnal 10-
our , ready to leave the ports of the Unit
;d States have been detained The 1 Jth
n title of the fame treaty gives liberty 'o
he United States to transport in their vef
"els goods belonging to fubjefts of a nrinca
it war with France, the American flag co
hering the cargo.
' ___________
[From a Correfa onient.~\
" I sometime since observed in the Ga
zette of the United States a parody cri one
■jf the Odes of Jonathan Pindar. I could
riot help thinking, on the occasion, how
*•11 the following// wii/tf fromMr.Trum
jull's AP Fingatl u buld apply to the mea
jre imitation farnilhed by Mr .Edito: of
:lie G.U.S, or some of his correfpondc-nts.
ro Jonathan Pindar, Efq author of the
Probationary Odes.
' In vain great John lhali play his part
To ape and counterfeit thy art ;
in vain liiall Sawney, more wil'e-pated,
4 conj'rer turn to imitate it
vV th like ill luck and pow'r as narrow.
They'll la e, like fore're sos old Pharoah,
tVho though the art they underflood
Jf turning rivers into blood,
4nd caus'd their trogs and snakes t'exift
I'hat with some merit croak'd and hilVdj
1 et ne'er by any quaint device
".ould frame the true Mosaic Lice,"
*»* The Editor htrc-by reqnefts all per.
bus in arrears for the Natioi at Uav. tte
uid all poll mailers and otiiers who may
lave received fublcription money tor this
japer, to to maice pu c>ual and speedy re
mttances. Such fubferibers as lhall be
uund 'liore than fix months n arrears will
3e politively ft uck oif the fubltrip'ion Ii t
iftei tne 26th day of October 11. t the
onciuhoii of the second year's publication
■>f the National Gazette.
(ts° We decline inserting any thing
■n the fubjeft *«f the African liuit i
cept written with '.he b reatelt brevity.New Pennsylvania Militia Law.
[Continued from our hjl J
St'flion XVII. And. be it en a fled by tht
authority afore/aid, Thai whenever it may
Ik' nefceffary to call nto adlual service any
par. of the Milit'ia, in cafe of rebellion,
or of anv actual or threatened invasion ol
this, or any of the neighbouring Itaces,
then it ffiall and msy be lawful for the
governor to order into a&ual service,
such part of the militia, by clafles, as the
exigency may require. Provided That the
part so called doth not exceed four claf
lies ot the Mi ilia of the brigade or bri
r?.des so called out. And provided as
That such brigade or brigade (hall not be
ag in ca'led out to fuvnifh any more Mili
tia until n equal number of classes of the
Militia -t the other brigade or brigades
refpe&ivcly, be firft called, unless the dan
pr of an invasion from Indians or others
fhonid make it neceffaiy to keep in re
serve the Militia of such brigade or Bri
gades so their own immediate defence.
Se ion X v 111. And be it further en
afled by tke authority aforefaid, That to
the end that the militia when called by
classes {hall be properly officered, the sol
lowing order s hereby directed and en
joined, that is to fay. For the firft draft",
the Captain of the firft company, the
Lie utenant of the second, and Enlign of
the fourth; second diaft, the Captain of
the second company, the Lieutenant of
the firft, and the Ensign of the third ;
third the Captain of the third com
ply, the Lieutenant of the fourth, and
E sign of the second : fourth draft, the
fourth Captain, the Lieutenant of the
third company, and the Enlign of the
firfl ; fifth draft, the fifth Captain, the
L riitenant of fixt'n company, and Enlign
of the eighth; sixth draft, the sixth Cap
tain, the Lieutenant of the fifth company
an.l Enlign of the fever.th ; seventh draft,
tli. (.apt i of the seventh company. th{
L ut'nant of the eighth, and the Ensign
o f the fix'h ; eighth draft, the Captain ol
the eighth ■•ompany, the Lieutenant oi
the fevetiih, and the Ensign of the
fifth j non-commiflioried officers to t:.k
tonr of duty with the commissioned
officers ; and the field officers of regi
ments in every division and brigade in
the ft-te, fhail be divided in like manner ;
and each clils to be considered as a de
tachment from different corps, liable tc
serve two months, and no longer, and t<
be relieved by the class next in numerica
order—the relief to arr ve at leafl tv/i
ciays before t e expiration of the term o:
the class 'q ber lieved—but nothing here
in contained (hall prevent the Governoi
from cmploving and calling out part ol
a' elafs, or any company or companies,
re- mem or regiments, without respeCt "c
tin* rule, whenever the exigency is tot
f Men to allow the affcmhling of the f at
tere - m litis, which Compose the particu
] fTe9, n 1 the service of '.he ptiifoni
so c> "ed out lhall be accounted as p-rt ol
t nr of duly; and the pay of tht
Miiitia >'n attual firvice (hall commettct
t < days before marching, and they : al
T- ceive and pay rations at the rate ol
fifteen miles per day m their return home
Sedfion XIX. And be it further enaStc
hy the authority aforefaid, That it shall and
m. y be lawful for any person called to do
r :."Ur of . utv,to find a iufficient iubftituu
f.i fubititute beiqapprove-J of by the
C ip'.ai'i com-'.andin? ■ Ificer of tht
comp 7 w'i ch he shall b- offered tc
f. 've : Provided always, That perlons
fcrvi: ; by fubft-'tnte as aforefaid, if f. id
y•bit. :: nail be called in his own turn
j afiual service before the term expires
rle was to serve for his employer,
len tiie person pr curing such fub
e itiall march in hia said substitutes
i ,:or b liable to pay his "inef or Tie
■& ; which"fine is to be recovered as
other fines for ritfgletk of serving are by
this ast dircded to be recovered ; and
that sons who are not fubj.Ct to the mi
litia law may be admitted as fubltituti. 5
f heir fathers.
it lon Xx. And be it further enaflea
I e authority ajore;,lid. That when the
ia, or any -c .. . I.ment thereof, are
,I ed out on utv, the pay of each Major
C- neral fha! be hxtv dollars p> r month ;
each Brigadier General sis y Hollais
er mon' ■ ; of each Lieuteuant Colonel
forty do'l rs pe v month of . ach Major
thir-!y d ;ars pet month ;of each Captain
twentv rive dollars per month ; of each
Lieut nt twenty dollars per month ;of
each tiftecu dollars month jof
each Serjfeanr eight dollars per month ; of
each Co poral fcven dollars per month, <Sc
of each Private and Musician fix doilais
permor.th ; and that every per fori refufing
( r negle&ing'to perform his tour of duty,
in perfoh or by substitute, shall pay the
(iim of twelve d<>ii ti for every such ne
gleft or refufal, if tl e tour was to be for a
term not exceeding one month, and in
proportion if the tour was to be for any
longer term.
Section XXI. And be it farther encSed
! y the authority afore/uid, 1 hat when any
c'afs or classes of the Militia (hall be call d
lo perform any tour of duty, the Briga e
Infpeftor shall cause each and every per
lon lo called to be notified of such call, by
a written or printed notice being deliver
cd to him personally, or left at his house
or usual place of abode, by some officer or
other fit person employed for that purpose
by the commanding officer of f. id com
piny, at lead three days before the time
of aiTembling the laid Militia, unless the
Governor, on a sudden exigency sb II
think proper to order any part of the
Militia into immediate and a?uiai service ;
and then the notice mentioning such Ipe
cial order, fhail be given for immediate
attendance; and any perlon refufing or
negltfliog to perform such tour of duty,
iball pay a fine of frxteen JoI aFS per month
for every such offence.
S.&ion XXII. And he itfurther enaflcd
by the authority aforcfaid, That the Inlpec
ior shall forthwith after the marching of
any part,of the M litia, call to his affilt.
ance two reputable c.tizens, one of whom
shall be a Jultice of the Peace, to fit at
the most convenient p ace for the inhabi
tants of their refpeftive di(lri£ts, notice
hav.ng been given of such place in the
written or printed fummens ot every mili
tia man f<> called out; and (hall there hear
and determine all appals that may be
made by the persons thinking tlxrnfelves
aggrieved by any thing d ne ir. pUiluance
of this ast ; and they are hereby autho
rised and required to grant such relief to
luch appellant as to them (hail appeaijuft
and reasonable, (in confluence of such
inability of body, as in the opinion of the
cou't renders him incapable of performing
military duty) or of unavoidable absence
from the brigade in which he (hall reside ;
and each of the said reputable c.tizens,
before they (hall fit on the (aid appeal,
shall take the following oath or affirmation,
viz. That he will hear and impartially de
termine on the cases of appeal, that may
be laid before him, agreeably to law, an
according to the bed hi 3 knowledge,
which oath, or affi-mation, the Inspector
is hereby empowered to adminifier; and
the fiid jullice and citizen shall have an
receive from the ; ltd Infpedfor the I im of
one dollar each, for every day they fit oh
the said appeals ; and the said Infpe&or
and Jullice of the peace (hall each keep a
leparate record of the proceedings of such
c.mrt of appeals ; and if delinquent,
whose appeal shall have been determined
ag'inft him, fha'l not pay his fine vithi <
five days after fu h determination, the
Infpecior'ffiall and may proceed to levy
the (aid fine in manner herein after men
tioned.
SeSion XXIII AnJbe it further enaß
by the authority afortfiiJ, That the com
manding officers of the several regiments,
liall attend at the place of rendezvous ol
the marching clais or claffis, and the
commanding officers of the marching clals
or- classes, are hereby required, then and
there,to deliver to the commanding officer
:>f the regiment, a in utter roll of all thole
ivho attend, and proceed to perform their
then required tour of duty, under the pe
nalty of fifty dollars, which return or
tnufter roll ffiail be tianfmittcd by she said
:omrnanding officer of thef. giment, with,
in five days after marching, under tiiape
nalty of fifty dollars, to tfie infpeftor of
the brigade to which they refpeCtivel/ be
long.
Section XXIV. Andle it further eruiFl_
td by the authority aforejdul, lti.it ;hc foi_
lowii g articles, rules an t regulations, foil
be thole by whiih the Militia ffiall be|jo
icrned:—
Article i. It any field or other com
m ffi'Micd officer at ..nv regimental review
or :ny other occalion, when the regiment
or company to win. h he may belong, or
in vvhi h he holds a command, is paraded
in arms, ffiall app* ar, milbehaveor demean
liimfelt in an unofficer lik - manner, he
(hall for such offence, he cuffiiered «r ptin
idicd by fine, at the difcre ion of a gene
tal court martial, as the cafe may require,
in any lurn not exceeding sixty doUars,
and if any non commissioned officer 01
private, (ha! on any occasion of paradffif
the company to which he belongs, ap
pear with his arms and accoutrements ir
an unlit condition, or be drunk, or fhal
( iiobej orders, or use any reproachful i
abufiite language to his officers, or any j!
them, or (ha ! quarrel himfelf, or promott
any quarrel among his felioiv soldiers, ht
(hall be difartned and put urid<;r guard, by
order of the commanding officcr prefen ,
until the company is dismissed, and (hal!
!>e fined at the discretion of a regimental
court martial in any sum not exceeding
four dollars, nor leis than one dollar.
Article 2. If the Lieutenant Colonel
or commanding officer of any regiment,
(hall negleCl or refufe to give oiders for
sflembling his regiment, at'the times ap
pointedby this law, or at the direction
of the infpeflor of the brigade to which
lie belongs, when the said infpe&or is
thereto commanded by the Governor, or
in cale of an invalion of the city or county
10 which such regiment belongs, he dial!
lie cashiered and punilhed by fine no' ex
cefding two hundred dollars, aMhe discre
tion of a general court martial ; and if a
ccmmiffioiied officer of any comnanv
dial! on any occaGon, neglcft. or refufe to
give oiders for aflembiing the company to
which he belongs, ci any part thereof, at
lhe discretion of the Lieutenant Colonel
or commanding officcr of the regiment to
which such company belongs, h.- (hall be
cashiered and .punilhed by fine, not ex
feeding sixty dollars, at the dilcretton of
a regimental court martialj'and a non
commissioned officer offending in fich
cafe, dial! be fined at the discretion - f a
regimental court martial, in any sum not
exceeding twenty dollars.
Article 3. Ifany Captain or command
ing officer of a company, (hall refufe or
11 'gleft to mak6 out a lift of the persons
noticed to pejform any tour of duty, and
Fend or convey the fame to the Lieutenant
k'olontl or commanding offic r of the re
giment to which such company may be
ong, for such neglect or retufal, he fhali
<e cashiered or fined at the discretion of a
egimental court martial in any sum not
;xcfeding forty dollars.
Article 4. Ifany militia man (ha'l de
ert, while he is on a tour of duty, he fljall
jC fined twenty-tour doll is forevery such
jfftnce, if a non commilli.>ned officer he
hr.l! be degraded and placed in the
ranks.
[To I; continued.
ME TEOROLOGICAL OBiE kf ATtUJ/S.
July 193.
D. hdrum.fTuti. C U'n j Wiatbt
Tuefiaf, 9. 6" 30. o! 73 [ i. | Vony.
. i 2-. ?tp.\v jj o
WeAmjday t ru. t>, 30. c 7c I .» \Fu:r.
?jj 3°v f - S/ ; . Vr •_>.
iburjduy y II oj 30* C' 74 j VV.|/'V7;r.
Vi ,*Pv £_3J 0. . i Jo.
Friday, 12. 0. 30. ij 7a N. tair.
84 Jo -
Saturday, jj» bj 3c* i| 0 6 M. w V air ~~~*
35 7 °- °<1 83 do. do.
bur.tiajf, 14. o<| 3°- °j 65 N. J Fur.'
3. c:J Bt= aim, \Haxey.
Monday, j<. 6j ,0. oj 6 . VV. l^ ioil Jy f
31 7.9. ij ■ 75 do. j
JitJi Pubiijhed
By Johnston and Justicf,
No. 4I) Ciiei.iut-.Vtitet, may t/c had at
No. 209, Matk.ec St»eer»
Price one and Jour pence huf penny ,
Travels through America y
A P >em —by Mjchael Foruest.
pOf T£ N T S :
VOYAGE si *<m Ireland to Newfoundland—
Description of Newf..u<>qiaaJ— fro .«
N"e*MnSndland to Bofton—Afl 1 tfi to Columbia 1
to the Boftoniaas, and to Bu leer's Hill—Voy a>c
from Boston to Baltimore—Qhfervati n? on par"!
Brandyivlne, going to Philadelphia—A view
>f a youth swimming in the river S . u Ikill an-.
!(>orti7Tg on its maigin —Deiciiptton ui Ftiuadei
i.iia — A fraternal Icene—A moral deducrd from
:J)e fraternal Icene—Battle 01 a>c kegs iii Phiia
Ifluiiia—Sailing from I'hiudVlj hia to B »rden
"wn in a stage boa r —Philosophical conremp £
"ion with rclpedl to human happiness— v'of
i>urli«gton and Briflo — A .cate view of ?
v iujig lady bathing in a Iy 1 v -rt pool—Rolands in
the [ifovty a »ur«l scene-—M ira. from the dittrefs
if Rolanda—Addrefs to Ro'ianda's inconftan l
I wain—The approach of W inter— A V.'intt
Storm—Fhe approach of Spi»nj_' — A view of tin
solar i-yIK-m on afine lummer ni^ht —Rora! oc
ferv;U .)ns—Bjttie of Trenton — l J jaife of Ciei e
nl Waftirg r on —Dai'hne 2r «j ifphon, a
Icene—Voyage to CharJefton, iouth-Carolina—
Deici ipti"»n of anu th; Ladies »;i C.a
■ 'lina ---Ver/es to"*a CarOtina Lao,-- Siege ot
Cru-rleflon — Address to ForUine--.Vrrfci ad
dielled 10 a young Ofotlvman 1 1 tht Chat'leftor
Coiiege-Acaiieiii) - --A f.fcwn of un^M-d
lubiiuie pocti*j—iVlaft ihali be tice, a new lcr. c .
ShrOvifonry and Ph: , ' '.in
STAG],
Shrew fourv and r'n n \ .. f
X will .-•ornmence toiun fcgula
•>ay he fourth of July, to loav : .
that after which t : n,r, du r ,
»t] IV, i w 1 I, nt: T ,rn M'Ke_ . V .
hmc £ '$ wharf a- P:i.: ■ delphia {the />
' u C i iir«-c : cverv S iriij ay
J-v Si p c»c ,o io Boraer»to;i—the »
i-uCLta ,i.t nexr ni rnin# to £ . ~ {
C> rt jr j on ever-, Tutj\.ay .nd i , - •, e
m .iot August, It w< ieave P?, at
- very and Thurfuay, anJ r. , v . *
Tuesday and Saturday.
Fare for Pailender# frtot) Philadel- h : a
toEdingto;j - - two dollars &an half,
i*or jjoods ditto - dicro pr. i-.vc. one dollar
VAN EM: URG & MCKEAN".
SAMvEi, Fox MAN
TSordefiton June 59, 17^3.
For freight or paflVge, to the n*afters oil
ooaid, or t.>
M'KEAN sis VAN EMBURGH
Who have-for sale as ujuai zt their /lores on f.v'd
. : a.r, perk, ; a n-, ?I • u., .a d, butter, rye i 1
india.i fDrai) tlieefc, bai l.on See. See.
J u 'y 3* lav. 2m:
JUST PUBLISHED,
ind to be fold by f hom As Don <n, WIL
liam Young, Roeer Campbell--
.Metir*. Rice and Co. and ja#N
Culloch, No. 1. North Thirci-i ree
A N EXAMINATION of the ]»te p <-
in rtv.,; >tic.<r i'x?
fficial cosdfcfr' of t.'ie Secretary of the
I reafury ; with Observations, tS?p. on the
application of Joans from HoM »ak*, negoci
ated under -the ;t;*s of the 4"t! 1 a d 12th ©f
A-uguit 179° —Tl.e price or ttie above
? tiiijihlet is three iixteenths of a dollar, or
is 4d. 1-2 April 24. 2a\v tf
Jtiji Publrfked>
And to be Sojd at the Office of the National
G _ze::e, N . *£9, Mirlcet-Ore t,
That celeb .> .d I rtjp ftnfek. entitled—
SURE and CERTAIN ME • HOD 3
or at aining a
LONG
AND
HEAL TH Y LIFE.
Wi itten by
LEWIS CORNARO, an 1 tali a N> b eman,
V-'hrtfhe was near an Hundred Year* o*' Age
Wiih a recommendation' by the H Joseph
Adbijoti, (Author of the Spe&stor)
I rt the f Word* •
CORMARO was ohan infirm contfitution
till about forty, when b. fleawily perfift
iig iij checourfe n r )iic recommended «n this lie*
tie book, he- >■«•<.< vere<l a pfrtril y* health,
i t';much that at fourfcorx he puLiiaie-d this
" 'k He lived ro give a third jruo fourth edi
i<" i t»u paifed his hundredth
':ar, died without ,pain or agoov, U'ac one who
tails : oecp. The trcaiife I mention has been
jf-z'.c- of by fe'vcral eminent atirlicrs, and is
written wi'h such a spirit ' f tiieerfutnei», religion,,
J d irnle, as ai • the natui ai cwucomirants
If tern, erance and f.-bucty. The mixture of
ihe old in it, is rather a recommendation
han a aifcrodit to Jt.' 1
K B. Toe London edition Jtas Jo d for 6/6•
Tl"s American edition t banJfomti'y bound and let•
tredy for 3/3 on!y. 1. a> w. 3. w.
FOR SALE,
Thirteen Hundred and Sixty Acrcs
of excellent
Farming or Tobacco Lands,
LYING in the county of Amherft, in the
(fate ol Virginia, on one of the principal
|r inches of James River, within liv miles of the
latter, from where it is navigable fur o-»at» of ten
or twelve tops burthen.—-Bcfides the advantage#
of chefe land», for the tuliivai< r of to-
Ltacco, they aie. iupj.ofcd, from a fm /} t'nougb
fuctefsful experiment, made by the l3tc cajonel
Chilwell, to contain an abundance of metals,
.vhich, if not of a precious (as has be?n even
supposed) arc certainly of a very vajoaV'e kind.
The better, however, to ascertain this and
jlace tnc puichafer on a faic f> n so hit*
ardnus a business, as all thole fui:terraneoui te
rearcfies, without the utmost certaioiv of an
abundancr of the desired ore, is fuppjfccJ to be,
-verv and necellary aiiiilance or indul
gence will be rendered thole inclined t<> ii)-ke the
as wen as every otiier r>£«:eiUry in'»
r rmarion yven by the Editor of tlu in
fhiiadeibbia, or
JOHN NICHOLAS^
Charlottefvil'ie, Virginia;
June S, 1793* 1 w6w
A FEW COPIF,SOF THE
T RANS ACTIONS
Of the Socwfy inftittited in the State of
New-York, for the prnmatiat. of
AGRICULTURE, ARTS, and MANU
FACTURES,
May be ,hd<i at this OTice.
[Price HALF a DOLt An."j
r—
PRINTED BY
CHI LD S and SWA IN E.
T THIII «rr JCE Ho. 200 fn r r.»». «: TR fc ST,
ntAK urTH-kTisn,
wH > ai)u. l : kfi t