By P. FR E NEA U: (at No. 209, Market Street) Publijhed WedhSsdats and Saturdays, [Three Dollars per annum.']
Numb. 65 of" Vol. ll.] WEDNESDAY, June 12, 1793.
French St. Domingo /"fairs.
[From Port au Trince papers..]
jIDDRES f of the merchants of tht town of
Part srt Prince in the national civil com
rrifiTio'ien, on board the America, a
French severity four gun/hip in the road
cf Port au Prince, dated the Bth of April,
i~9V [ Four-days before the fevire can-
took place of which -we have noted
rie particulars in former payrs.]
AS Ion» as we had any hopes remaining
that an accommodation would prevent
the misfortunes that are ready to burrt upon
Port auPrincf*. we did not think it our du
tv to trouble you in relation to the private
concern" of our commerce. Ar present e
very thing reminds us that we have every
thing to fear; we should t>e bbme-w orthy
then if we did not exert ourselves, in the
r-.nnr of that national commerce whose
confidence we possess, to make such rtpre
fentations as will serve to the advance
ment of its "laterelt•
We not here undertake the de
fence of an li.ifortnnate town, now for
three yeiri part the -victim of perfidious
eondutt; e will begleave toobferve,hosv
ever, that it ispninftil for its inhabitants to
be actitfed of cronies without being fnffer
eJ to exculpate themselves; to fee them-
Xelvesmenaced with puniihment without,
being informed what crimes are laid to'
their charge. Will the delegates of the
nation condemn them without a hearing;
will they indiscriminately involve in their
proscription the friends of lawful govern
ment. the faithful children of the parent
country, and these who are ecculed of
being declared enemies of both?—No; it
is impolßble the breasts. of the commillion
ers can harbour so cruel a thought. But,
citizens com,niffiont rs, if we ihouldl for a
moment flatter ourselves with a ray ofhope,
liow can we otherwise then despair when
we reflect that t-y your proclamation of
the 2ut ofl*ft Muixh. you involved us
all in an indiscriminate fcntcnce of fttfpici
on, and held as curtain truths the {lander
ous assertions of our enemies, carrying des
pair into every heart by your threats of a
deplorable ti-anfportJtion of the merchants
of Port au Prince from their homes and
properties. What citizen would not
tremble, however innocent he might be,
to fee hii name on the lilt of the proscribed;
to be separated from his wife, his children,
his property, from those vai ious great and
sacred concerns which are intruded to him,
and to be dragged like a criminal to the
terrible tribunal ofthe national convention
of France I In our hands remain the for
tunes, and perhaps the last resources of
those valuable men, to whom the republic
of France owes its prosperity. In defend
ing their iyterefts, we defend those of
the mother country, who vflll fine' in their
generous and inexhaustible patriotism the
means of refitting the enemies of liberty :
and vet. for fifteen days palt all our buli
nefs is suspended. An embargo lias been
put upon our droguing vessels, that keep
up a commercial connexion with all parts
ofthe colony, supply those with provisions
which cannot be resorted to by vessels from
foreign parts, and serve as transport ves
sels for the commodities with which our
foreign fhipsare laden. And how shall we
answer the private engagements we have
made; how (upply the demands of our
correspondents in Europe, if all our abili
ties are thus fettered ?
The armament in our harbour wears a
menacing afpeft, and the land forces col
lefted trom the weltern quarter, are
brought hither to annihilate the I ast hopes
of national commerce instead of aiding the
citizens of Port au Prince and Croix des
Bouquets to support them. At this inltant
the revolters are wafting and burning the
rich possessions in Cul de Sac; instead of
hastening todeftroy the villains, you arm
against a town that is actually at war with
• them, and which begs you for peace. You
retufeall intercourse with us, reject the
deputations we have lent to you. and-fliew
every hostile difpolition. Alas I do you
perceive how much future mifchiet is the
consequence of such steps. Do you know
that we have on lhore here our papers
and precious effects, and merchandize the
value of which is inestimable? that neither
these papers nor these articles of merchan
dize are our own, but that we are merely
the truttces of the greater part ? that their
deftruftion would occasion numberiefs
failures, which failures would bring on the
ruin 9fnational commerce, already shock
ed by the misfortunes it hasfuftained ; and,
finally do you knc\v,meflieur3 commifiion
ers.thatyou will be responsible for th»felof
(es,and that fix millionsofunfortnnate peo
ple, who are supported by commerce, will
with cries of defpiir demand vengeance
on the national convention.
Can it be your intention to set at defi
ance this aweful refponlibility, and there
by reduce u$ todefpair? we can 110 lon
ger doubt it, finre the orders you have giv
en to the captains ef the merchant veue'3,
to anchor out fide of the ships of war.
What can be your deflgns—will you pro
ceed to the last extremities against a town
whose petitions you have refufed to hear?
we now declare to you in form that the
I order you have given to the mercantile cap
tains cannot be executed without efl'enti
, ally injuring the concerns of trade. In
deed, only call your eyes on the situation
of the vessels in the road, few of them are
loaded or even ballasted ; it would be next
to impofiible that they can go out ot the
harbour, or be conducted into the grand
road without being exposed to considera
ble damage, and probably to a total lof>.
Besides, moll of the captains have their
cargoes on shore, which they are obliged tc
guard carefully : and how can they attend
to this duty, if you order them away tc
the grand road, at so confiderablc a difl
ance from thsir property. Will you an
swer for it, that on your attacking the
towu the commercial magazines will bt
refpeftcd ; and would y«u not be held re-
Jponfible for the loflTes that might happen
through plunder or conflagration ?
It is impoflible to calculate the evils at
tendant upon civil war ; and not one ol
them but is a mortal flab to the interefh oj
trade. Citizen commiflioners, before yot
proceed to extremities, refieft that peace i:
for the advantage of this colony, and thai
France Hands, in need of her commerce,
and that you yourselves will be held fori
oufly refponlible for the loss of either,
What is the meaning of that general em
bargo la.ii rolelv on tills port, w/lich put:
a flop to all ourbufinefs and occafians im
mense lofies to commerce. What mean:
that obflinate silence you keep notwith
standing ourprefling and repeated folicita
tionstoyou to explain yourfelve»—Wh-.|
mean those threateninglleps you are tak
ing against a town on whose fate a verj
large (hare of the national commerce de
pends?—ln fine, what conflruction arf
we to put upon the orders you have giver
to the captaius of the trading vessels to re
tire outlide of the ships of war ? —Is it re
ally your design to canniuiade th,e town
and to deflroy in one inflant the merchan
dize and debts due to the national trade
for such wi the consequence oftlie leal
ast of hoflility on our part.
We repeat to you, is it a time when thi
revolters lay waste and burn the rich pof
fellionson the plain,when they are ruinin;
the sources of national commerce, that yot
think it your duty to excite a civil war 11
the weflern province by arming fourteei
parishes against one. Is :t not raihei
your duty to deflroy the revolters befort
you think of re-eftablifliing order in ;
place where all is quiet—and do you sup
pose you will not have to answer for th<
conflagrations and devastations which art
daily committing in the plains,for want o:
the flipulated relief, which your procla
mation has prevented the neigbouririg pa
rishes frcun fending.
Citizen cojnmifiioncrs, we now declare
to you that this addref's is to be printec
and to be transmitted to all the commerci
al settlements of the republic, that we
transfer to yourselves all the refponfibilitj
we lay under to our conflituents, and thai
we will notify to them, that if they fuffei
lofies, we have used every argument vvitl
you to prevent them. You are ruininj
the colony instead of saving it, and tindei
pretence of avenging affronts which Franct
has never received, you will soon plunge
her into mourning, misery and consternati
on. Renounce then your intended attack,
give peace to the citizens of Port au Prince
and be convinced that they are worthy o]
the Freuch republic, and do not inerii
{lander or abu'fe. Suffer truth to fliine in
to yoi\,and turn not away from the mirror
we hold up to you. In a short time you
will no longer be able to look at it ; the
misfortunes we predict will fall upon your
own heads will then re
gret that yon had not prevented them.
Ye depoluaries of national confidence, the
voice of commerce ought to have some in
fluence 011 you. She has some right to a
foeciol proteflion, and you cannot without
acting a criminal part towards your coun
try,expof'e her bell intereflsto definition
[The foregoing was signed by near sixty
merchants and trading companies ir. Port
iu Prince ; the cannonade, notwithstand
ing took place on the 12th (four days af
ter the dite of the above J for the reasons
mentioned in the cominiflioners' letter :
See National Gaz. Numb. 166. j
For the National Gazette.
THE absurd zeal of some idolaters of
monarchy among us, in makinga god
of the late king of Franse jhas, as usually
happens, driven some warm republicans
into the opposite extreme of makinga de
vil of him. So aifo the base and wicked at
tempts to quibble and pervert the honest
meaning of the treaty, with France, to
bUeken tlie character of the French patri
ot, and to turn th£ stream of tfie republic
j '.'£lion from our republican friends and
a' ies towards a monarchical nation that
e en facrifiees her interest to her hatred
•"id afFefled contempt of us, have had a
liuilar e£'e£t ill routing honest paflions into a
fervour that would forget the blessings ol
peace and the pioper laws of neutrality.
It is the business of moderate men, who love
both their country aud the caule of liberty,
to check the folly of those who meaji well,
where it is thus produced and flimulated
by the orpolipe conduit cf others. It u
fiaterely to be desired that full credit
Ihotild be given to the unhappy Louis for
all the good qualities and merits he poflef
edj and that his weakiiefles, his vices, and
his guilty deeds Ifcould be no further re
membered or brought into view than may
be iiecefiary to do juftioe to a great patri
ots nation, and to Cave the cause of liber
ty aidhpmanicy from unmerited reproach.
Moderate men will upon the fame princi
ple wi Vto fee our country remain in peace,
a; -' leap all the benefits of neutrality, b>
a ~'e ct conduct that will give no just pro
utie hand. iior violate cm- e#.
gagements. our gratitude,or any of our mo
ral duties on the other.
Nothing is more certain than that a verj
refined policy calculated upon a felfilh scale,
generally outwits and always dishonours it
felf. This is a true and a trite observation
in private life, and holds equally as good ir
public affairs. For after all that has beer
said and written of the art of politics and
the maxims of (late, mankind seem to have
been brought back by the light of experi
ence to these simple honest truths, that the
best rule a nation can go by, is that which
should govern individual persons; and the
best rule individuals can follow is the e
vangelical one of doing to others as they
would have others do to them.
That we may therefore apply these rules
of condlift to the present cafe of America,
let us suppose that the French revolution
had happened before the American, and
that the people of America had been in a
state to heJp the French in the struggle for
their liberties, and had accordingly made s
generous treaty with them, sent them met
and money, and by these means had affifter,
and enabled the French to fliake off the ty
rannical yoke of kingly government, and
to eftiiblidi a free republican government,
like that of America, founded on the au
thority of the people, and intended for
their good. Let 11s next suppose that af
ter a (hort lapse of time an attempt were
made by a powerful monarchy, aided by
tyrannical princes and mercenary armies
for the purpose of robbing America of her
liberties and establishing over the people
the yoke of despotism. In this littiation,
let any candid virtuous man fay what sen
timents and difpolition might reafonablybe
expected by America from France in re
turn for what had palfed ; and in particu
lar let every American fay what he w 011UI
think of any set of men in France who
should endeavour to blacken the American
character, wish success to the despotic at
tack on her liberties, and do all thfy could
by indifett means, to forward the destruc
tion of a republican government in the
country of an ally and a benefactor that
had afiifted them in attaining a like free
government for their own country. The
leaft'that could be said would surely be,
thattheynruft either be void of the commoi:
feelings of men,or be falfe in their preten
ces of having any good liking to their own
republican government.
Those who have right principles in their
minds, with a tolerable snare of plain good
sense cannot, I think, be at any lofsto de
cide how Americans ought to feel, think,
and conduct in the present juncture t>f af
fairs.
[Total Numb. 169.]
As it would not he in our power to ren
der much aid by furce of arms to France,
and there is no ground to suppose that
France defiret or expeftsit, we are happily
freed from the only part of the quenioni
that could poflibly prove a difficulty or an
embarraflinent ; and under these circum
stances every honest American, friendly ro
the cause of liberty and humanity, and ihi
dious of the conlilfency and honour of his
country, must and will fay, Fir/1, The war
of the combined powers again!! the repub
lic of Fiance being notoriously dictated by
a malicious hatred againftthe rightsof nati
ons and the principles of liberty,ought tobe
execrated by every humane heart, and a
disappointment of their wicked designs
wilhed & prayed for by every rational and
well disposed mind.
Secondly, The obligations the treaty
with France, made when (o much needed
by America, «nd lb conducive to securing
to us the blessings ot freedom, now ilrug
gling for by France herfclf, ought to be
relig'oully discharged, and explained, with
out fophiitry or fubterfuge, in the obvious
sense and meaning of the parties at the
lime of making the fame.
Thirdly, Every external peaccable cx
prellion of kind and grateful afft-ftion to
the French republic is proper, and honour
able to the people of the United States.
Fourthly, 11 is their duly as men, as free -
men, and as confident Americans, as fur'
as they have a right by the law of ratio': s, to
favour and befriend the nation engaged on
the fide of liberty, humanity, and republi
can government (and that has a'fo been
the benefactor & supporter of America in a
like calife) and to refufe every ast of fa
vour and Iriendlhip that can br of right
withheld from the powers combined, as
every American believes and feels, ngainft
the laws of justice, and the lreedom and
happiness of bnman nature.
These are the sentiments, Mr. Freneau,
. Mti» seem to row from apt filtioc
ration, combined with a iincere attach
ment to liberty. I believe, nay I am fine,
the> willbe found the real fentimems ofihe
great body of virtuous and jiifcreet citi
zens ; and that inasmuch as they cannot
fail to be moll honourable to America in
the eyes of the best part of mankind, ana
above all, inoft pleasing in the fight of ti.e
Almighty parent of the univerle, so in the
end they must be moll favourable to th«
true and lasting, interests of our country.
An AMERICAN.
Philadelphia, June fv
For the National Gazette.
'T~)FMEMBF.R Thou art a man," was
JfV ' n ancient times the wife admoniti
on i epeated daily to a certain exalted per
lon age. who am id all the dazzling fpiericnpr*
of enor»icus wealth and supreme terrestri
al power, (fill retained so much cool ie
fle£lion as to appoint a monitor, v hose sole
business was to check the vain ambition of
his inafler, by a daily repetition of the so-
If mil memento above quoted, fie proba
bly deemed this precaution the more necef-
Cary from a confcioufnefs,that like all kings
emperors, governors, and other supreme
magistrates, he was liable to be so far in
toxicated by the adulation of court syco
phants, as well as by the vanity incident
to an exalted station, that he mijht be
presumptuous enough to conceive himfeif
foinething more than mortal.
To the want of fiu«i a monitor, and to
the poison of fnch lycephants, we may
doubtless afcribr, in a great degree, t!"e
infatuation of some modern great fnen,
who feemon certain occasions to arrogate
to themselves abfulute perfection, an attri
bute of which theydare ty rob the ftiprcm*
being. That the claims of petty mortals
to infallibility fhou'd not only be tolerated,
but supported by the bulk of mankind in
all ages, is not less wonderful than true.
It is indeed strange that the glare of a
throne, or the splendor of a crown fhvuld
so far dazzle the eye» of men, as to make
the possessor of either appear to them far
superior to his fellow mortals, in vifdom
and integrity as well station.
Without attempting to account for the
origin of a species of idolatry so degrading
to the human charailer, fufiice it'to fay,
that all the artificcs of political ttiyftery
and court intrigue have been coxiftantly
employed to perpetuate the delulion. The
mock-deity himfeif hrs generally kept up
the farcical appearance oj superior \vifdoiu,
by imitating as much as possible the ex
ample cf the bird of night, whose wife andSolemfl fr.ce is seldom to be -fee;i in open
<'ay among the refV of the feathered tribe-
At the fame time hosts of mercenary sy
cophants have been employed to blazo'i
forth in tile moil sublime drain- 01"pane
gyric, the exalted virtues, the jtidefci *ba
b!e perfeitioni or riicir jy-acieus fov.ereigu-
The unthinking multitude have seldom
failed t.) f.va.l" \ th- bait, and volunta i-
Jy to ratify * ;e ignominious deed ot their
gv i iricm. Thus '.live mankind ii:
■every a;e themlelves to be debafec!
b •ea:i' t.:e brute creation : for none ol
tliefe, 1 b::l:.-vc, ii*e (laves to an individua
of their owa speck ..
It is said that, at the present day, Amerie:
boafh of a more enlightened, and confe
que.itly a lets flavii'i generation of men.
but of this we mnl* judge by their practice.
Happy w 'l it be for thi'infelves and tot
pollerity if, warned by the fad example oi
■Other nations, they refufe to bend the knet
to Baal. and ad like men who cleferve to be
free. May they never forget that a super
ftitio'.is veneration of any one man is the
portico to the accursed temple of slavery !
May they, while they pay a decent refpet;
to patriotic men, venerate rectitude ot
principle only I and above all, may they e
ver aflert svirh firr.mefs the rdearell prero
gative, that of freely canv.lii >g public me;:-
fures, however popular, however tfxalted
in station their authors maybe. In th'r
way only can the sacred Hame of liber
ty, like that of the veilal virgins, be trans
mitted with undiiniuifhcd luitre, from age
to age.
The solicitude of a supreme inagTrtratt
for *h* happiness of his country fhouid keep
paco \v;th the high honours conferred or
him in being choferr to that place, and a
lrunly invemgation of public measures
o(ig!;t at ail times to be countenanced. Ii
confciertis of having atted well his part, hr
can have nothing to fear from the fevered
Icrutiny, which must rather turn out to hii
advantage, by placing his conduct in a re
fp'e£table point of view before his fellow
citizens. Belides in a course of free en
quiry, hints not unworthy of attention, art
frequently thrown out.
It every honest animadverter en what he
conceives to be abuses or error in the ad
ir.millration of government is to be (ilen
ced, without the fhadsw of argument, by
the hackuied cry, that he willies " to injure
the supreme executive," or, that his candid
are ** infultingto the President
of the United States I ' —lf to condemn mal
practice in ny department of government
fcs to ** iufult the Prefidenf'—if to deny, or
, even queflion the infallibility of a firll ma
gi Irate, be a political heresy of the deepelt
h —if the parregyrifls of governmental
nleafures ire eternally to silence the voice
of injured patr'tstifm, by crying out " The
government is in danger"—if all objeflions
are to be got rid of in this way, surely it if
time to al'c, in the name of heaven, tinder
what fort of government do we live—lf we
call ourselves freemen, the appellation rauf
be conftdered as a mere mockery, or at bed
an empty found.
- 'No one :aii fee insensible to what great
dangers the liberties of a people are expo
led, when the undue influence of one man,
whether funded on popularity or power,
is fu.t: e"t to carry down any public men
fur. 1 , and to (lifte all enquiry refpectirig
either itl jultice or expediency. The po
pularity of a supreme magiflratc has in ma
ny inltances served as a shield in the hands
of delig iug men to screen the authors of
all public measures indiscriminately; or
rather, as an opiate to lull the peuple into
feenrity, at timfcs the molt alarming. In
Head of watching over their own liberties
with an eye of patriotic vigilance, they ton
often fay, " our king, or our emperor, or
our president is at the helm, and there is
no danger."
In regard to America, it is happy for her
that some of her moll enlightened sons have
ilartcd back with horror from the preci
pice to which they had been nearly eon
dueled by a delusion of this fort; and have
founded a falutarv alarm among their fel
low citizens. The republicans of Philadel
phia have taken the lead on this glorious oc
cafion,and have acquired immortal honour
by a manly avowal »f this great truth, that
principles and not men, ought ever to be
the objects of republican attachment. To
the Britifli royalists in this country they
have resigned the slavish monarchical prac
tice of idolizing men. But hosv glaring
has been the insult to our present chief
magistrate by some deirotees to royalty in
Philadelphia, who, when met to eelebrate
the birth day of their king, had the pre
emption to toatl the Prelident after the
said king, their queen, and the whole roy
al brood of Britain I —They have placed
the President in the rear of a pretty train
indeed. A fmiilar honour was lately con
ferred on him by the St. George's society of
Charlelton —Snth are the men who atfect
to entertain a high refpeft for t]ie preii
dential character, who twelve years ago
would have exulted in hearing he had fi
■nifhed his career in the raolt infamous
manner-
But, were I to give utterance to my
feelings, this copious theme would carry
m? too far. My sole objedt when I began
thiseffay was to fliow the neceffityof can
vassing public measure» with a manly free
dom, without fulFering our judgment or
integrity to be warped by th» slavish influ-
ence of great names. If lr.y language
should be disagreeable to any in high itati
o.is. they will be pleased to remember it
is the language ot patiiatifin, truth, and
linccrity. Should: the splendour and im
portance of great names continue to be
h?!d forth by court- .vriters to deter indi
'iduilsfroma free investigation of public
uieafurei, I fliall have no objecVio-.i lore
fume my Dea, a id brint; unquestionable
argu mentsthat elevated station is no proof
of prelideatial, or any otker infallibility.
VER.IT AS.
Jnne to.
No. 11.
COOL REFLECTIONS relAtivetc
the FRENCH REVOLUTION.
Mr. Freneau,
T AM not one of those hackneved, c-olcT
*■ hearted politicians who think that go
vernments and nations have *-different rule
if action from individuals, that they ought
lot like individuals to follow the moral
:li£tates of the heart; but Ihould in all (mi
nions csft aside every confederation btu
mere interest and advantage. I never couli.
"ee that it was improper for the whole tc
Jo what it would be meritorious in eacl
me in particular to do ; or that nation
which are described as moral persons, were
,ot bound and would not in the end j,ain
by arting in every regard according to tin
piecepts of morality. Nor could my mine
ever comprehend how a nation could L<
bound to one moral duty and not to ano
ther. If a natioi) ought to be jufl, wlij
noc a!Co generous, grateful, btncfictnt, a»i;
charitable ; and this as well towards othei
ations *s towards its own members. Anc.
if honesty, as all hold, be the bell polic;
among nations, because it is so among indi
viduals, why is not generoficy, humanity
gratitule, &c. the belt policy alio ainon>
nations, feeing that the practice of thefi
virtues are as certainly the true policy ol
individuals, as the practice of jultice or ho
nesty itfelf. I conclude therefore that i
imi ft be the interest as it is the duty of tiu
United States to exejeife all the virtue:
[hat are praise \»orthy in private persons
aad confequelitly to pay the debt of grat:
tude, sympathy. and pood will, as well a:
the debt of gold or lilver, to all, whethei
i foreign nation or our own citizens, wlit
nay be entitled thereto. A contrary con
iuit would be as unwise as it would bc
mean; and would fallify all those magnaui
lious prot'eflions, and expanded principles,
which have spread afar the fame of our
neroes and statesmen, and given the cauft
if liberty, tirft cfpoufed by America, fuel!
Uuftrious merit in the eyes of mankind.--
The cralty and trickilh fnaxirns by whicl
kings and courts colour over the violatior
->r evalion of a moral policy, are growing
nto contempt even among theinfelves
through the experienced folly of them.
But here the queltion arises bttweer
America and France, whether the del to!
gratitude and friendfhip was contraftcil to
wards the French King or the French na
ion, I (hall try to conlider it with fair
:iefs and in as exatl a manner as breviu
will permit.
Gratitude implies that advantages have
seen conferred or intended, and the degree
ihereof ought to be proportioned to tin
7,reatnefs of the advantage combined witl
the benevolence of the motive. To deter
mine therefore, who it was, whether the
cing or the nation of France, that had the
mod claim to our gratitude, it mtift be con
idered which of them, principally, contri
buted the aids we received, and which wa:
-rned by til.' purelt motives of goof
will. Now this is i point that every grate
ful candid mind would fain decline, becetifi
-t i» the temper of gratitude to think fa
vourably of the bencfa£tor, and candour i:
jver ready to prefuine a good motive to t
jjood deed, where nothing appears to the
contrary. But in the orefent cafe as dif
ferent and clalhing claims are set up, we
,re compelled to examine and compare
them.
The advocates for the merit of the king
tell us it was he that made the treaty ol
independence ; he supplied us with money ;
he it was that sent out fleets and armies to
fight for us. It would not be unfair to
alk here whether he adopted these raea
fures as the magistrate and of the
nation, or merely of himfelf, without re
gard to the fenl'e and inclination of the na
tion ; for on the Jalt fuppolition iE ii im
possible to approve his conduit, tho' we
happened to g>-t fomethlng by it; and on
the other fuppoiition the nation will be let
in for the principal lliare of the merit. I
will not however purine this argument on
account of the difficulty of fettling the cx
aft relation between the king and the na
tion, under the old government ; but pro
r°ed to observe, that as to the pecuniar;,
supplies from France, they w ere nil in fac<
contributed by the nation, .and not by the
king. The money came out of the pocket?
of the people : it was made out of the la
bour of their hands and the sweat of their
brows. It is even true, (tho I take no
pleasure in the remark, nor would make it
if not-called for by the occalion) that not a
livre sent us, as I have ever under!.ocd,
was spared out of the sum appropriated to
the accommodation of the king (if it had,
[ it was dill money drawn from the pockets
of lite ptop'e) Lilt so much taxed as an ad
ditional burden on the nation. And as to
i,he bloodifhed ia our behalf. whose.was ii ?
Surely, not the king's. His little finger
never acted, nor was a hair of his head in
danger l>y reason of the war. Those who
fought for us were a part of the nation,
the foils, and brothers, and fathers of the
French people. They were fed and cloath
ed and lupported at the expence of tin
people, cheerfully afforded as we have good
reason to believe. And, excepfingperhaps
a pari of the officers, they are at this time
fighting on the fide of the naticn agaijift all
its royal combined enemies. Surely then
die benefits received by America from
France are to be set down principally to
the nation rather than to the king.
Next, for the motives—and these may be
analyzed into three.: 1. A hatred aguinft
Great-Britain on paftfcores.—2. A jealou
-7 of future danger from her incrtafing
iuwer and refourcis.—3 A good will to
wards the people of America in the caufo
»/ liberty w.herein (he had embarked.
Now, as to the tirft motive it was doubt
iefs felt ffrongly both by the government
nation of France. The second was in like
manner a motive with both, as we may 111-
turally suppose, in proportion to the atreti-
Lion given to the dangerous growth of the
Britillj empire. But it is the third and 1..1t
motive only which America is to regard li
the true and laudable object of her grati
tude. And does it require a moniert's
confederation to determine that there v. as
more of diltinjuillied cordial fympatby v. ith
lis, whilst for o;;r.; ; jlus a:.d li
berties, in the people of France, than in
:ie king ? If ~iiy man in hi; could
ji er have supposed otherwise, \ • null! now
be convinced by fails and events. For the
Irencb nation is now at war ag; hilt the
uhole world, a; it were, in that very cuife
•ii liberty and humanity in which they a.dcd
iiid befriended America ; and the unfortu
nate Louis has fallen a aielancho y victim
to his apoltacy therefrom.
PHILADELPHIA.
June 8.
FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
In addition to that given in our la ft and
'receding number, several letters appear
11 the European papers, written by Dll
- other officers, to different per
ons, on or about the time of his defer t.o 11.
:T nder the date of April 1, is a letter b)
lim addressed to general Mia2.in(Ui,inf orm
rig him of his having arrested the comnnfi
iners, and ordering him to march inllantly
igainft Lisle, to lake pofieflion of the ua
■,onal treasure theie ; to proceed trom
hence toDoiiay. and arrest general More
en—then to advance to Can,bi>.y, Sec. and
(during him that the whole army was de
cided for the restoration of mo.iarchy.—
Another letter appears from Duraonn-.-r to
:iie Adminiltrators of the Department of
he North, dated April a, giving a horrid
jicture of the anerchy at Paris, the cruel
jeifecutions set on foot by the Nation-.'
Convention, &c. expressing the strong at
:achment of his army, upon the strength of
which lie had seized the commifiioiiers, and
with wiiich he meant immediately
march towards Paris, to crown the dau
jhiu,'to put an end to riiforder, Ei:d to
naintain the conftitutionas adopted in 1 791,
ic. &lc. —A third address is alio publiihed
from Dumourier's adjthant-geiieral i.'Or
•ery, to the commanders at the town: and
iorts 011 the French northern frontiers,
lated St. Aniand, April 5, in which,
•!ecryine,& er'-ir ent
if' France, hetacill-y recommends to them a
participation in the treason of Dumourier
ind himfelf, and to give up the polls in
heir keeping to the Auftrians.—A letter
was also published trorp general Cuftine, to
Che French minister at war, dated Worms,
March 30, detailing some disastrous events,
jarticularly the loss of the post of Bingen,
iwing principally to the cowardly or trai
o: 0113 condutf of several battalions. Gene
al Poire was left the commanding officer
it Mentz, and other inferior officers in
whom he could repose confidence : Ctif
:ine himfelf was preparing to cover the
entrance of the departments of the Rhine.
—In addition to these there is published
mother letter, or rather proclamation,
: rpm Dumourier to the French nation,
inder the Paris head of April 9. —It is as
"ollows.—
"At the time I published my fiift pro
clamation I had founded the sentiments
f all my corps of the army under my com
mand, and all of them seemed penetrated
•vith the ir.iferies which an anarchical ty
ranny, exercised in the name of the Na
;ional Convention, had entailed on our
ountry. All of them acknowledged un
equivocally that we could not live without
aws, and appeared to agreein opinion that
:he re-eftablifhmcnt of the confiitmion
would restore us to peace and good order,
-.-cithout which is was inipoffible for us
longer to exist:
'■ I had not as yet reason to expect that
there could be the least wavering from an
L'j inion so well founded, ai d which also
puffed unanimous; and, indeed, who
Lould have conceived that the generals
rhemfelvcs would have fought, through
their ambition, or by a fpirir of infatuation,
to alter the refolujion of the army 5 Danj
p!errev SteteiiliofF, la Mcrliere, Rofcre,
Chancel, f'errand, lra\e ccnfpirfd agaiuflj
their country, againlt a good eaufe, agaiiiit
their companions in arms, and again)! me,
to whom tliey made repeated aflinances
that tl ey entertained the fame pri::riplcs
with ourselves. I ihali not reproach them
with ingratitude—ll■ e.r conuientes "svi! t
one day punish them fufficitndy, but (hall
confine lryfelf to this obiervation, that
neither of them esteems the niifcreanta
whom tiny now i'trve—The Jacobiss
will, in their blind lurv, cXcrcife ven
geance on them—for feteral of the
number are of the peiTei nre'd feft; ancf
the anar'hills will mptue to them the dil
afters that cannot fail to accompany th<r
raili and fan; tiinary plans w kich that afiem
blage 'of factious criminals w ill oppose lo
the regular plans of attack ol the combined
pi« ers.
'• The revolt arranged by these traitors !::is
for a moment changed the face of affair
whilst the commiffionersof the Conventic
afiembled at Valenciennes and Lisle, have
employed measures worthy of themselves
to milk ad the army, and llifie the pretend•
ed confpitacy which we all regarded as a
neccfi'ary aii'of virtue, finee it is trie only
means *f laving France : They have em
ployed the arms ol mifereants and cow
ards.
" On the 3d of this months, fix fanatical
volunteers c. me to-St. Amand to poignard
'me I protee'ed them from the fury of
the foidiers, and feiit tlieni to keep com
pany with the four commilSoners—they
will augment the number of hostages.
" On the 4tb. three battalions of national
volunteers deserted the c.mip, without or
ders, and threw thenfehes into Valen
ciennes. I met them on tiieroad between
St. Amand and Conde, at the distance of
about half a leagne-from tl-e latter place.
1 was then without eleort, as a father in
tile midlt of his children, (lor fitch was
the tender name the whole army had be
llowed on me.) I had. at the 1110 ft, fifteen
or eighteen pcrfons with me on hurfe
baci.—when tile battalions were To daf
tartHy as to afiail me with a dilcharge of
inufquctry. They killed several of my
(elite, as well as several horles.
•' They cvt offthe ro.id to the camp to
which I wifiied to return; and 1 was
forced to lave U:yfelf, v ith a part of the
officers who accompanied me, by crofliug.
the Scheldt in a* boat to repair to the tirlt
imperial poll. As i: was not our intention
to emigrate, and as we were allured that
the army expressed a strong indignation
against tliefe afiaflins, as well as an attach
ment to the re-sihiblifliment of peace and
good order, we repaired at day break to
the camp. Therft, however, amkiiS. . cite
rated protestations cf atcaeinnt'i'H 10 the
principles that determined u», we remark
ed a mute aid ftiiiea agitation, which
mi.de us judge that ffr.arge diflentiuns of
opinion prevailed. 1 acldreiiecl each corps,
and from each corps received a reply tan
tamount to that made 0:1 the preceding
day.
•• Wishing, however, after the remarks
we had made; to repair to the head-quar
ters at St. Amand-, «e learned the corps of
artillery formed tlie detifcji cf conveying
their great park to Valenciennes ; & that the
plot of the radio as men who mi (lead them,
was, 10 seize on us, to convey us thither,
and to make a merit of facr licing us to the
vengeance of our tyrants. "We had then
one expedient o:ny left, ili.it of repairing
.to the Jnipei-'SI army, which we ought to
regard as our ally, ■ tier tlie frank and 110-
oW pro. .. ...irion o£ tire general i» chief by
'.\|:olll'i! -11 <1 e <1. I
St v. of ■ utlery have already
o ned us leve.al cands ol infantry hate*
done the Mine ; av:d a* loon as. the Impe
riafills limit hav« entered '.he territory of
Fiance, not a-- vanqnifkers. and willing t»
ilucate laws, but as glorious allies, who
come to aid us in the 1 e-c-ltablifhing the
constitution, which can alone day the pro
gress of the crinreiand calamities thatme
nace France : many other corps will re
pair to unite Uiemielves to their brothers
in arms.
" I know the disposition of the army,
and more elpeeially that of the troops of
the line. Their principles are, at the bot
tom, pure. They may for. a moment allow
themselves to be hurried away by the ex
aggerated opinions incnicaitd to them ;
but as the invincible coin ; they have
dtfplayed during the present war, mil ft
nece'll-.rily be accompanied ,cy the desire
of poflefiiitg the law-, they crntjot find, un
lets in the conftittition. which will dtftrpy
the odious tyranny ot anarchiils, they will
be jealous of the public eiirera, . Thet
will blush at having, even for a moment,®
been capable of anr.exin?; their colours to
those of criminal licemiotvfiefs. They
will rally I" lid' the brave troops whohave
only accompar.ir cf- me in .my momentary
retreat to re-emer France wi, Itin two days
at fartheft. a: el tojut ;:i »::d to the vile
diforclers vV'hicli cover a!! 1 ranee with
mourning and terror.
" I fwcnr, in the name of my compani
ons, that Me will not lay de-v:i our arms
Until we liiall have fiuceed».d i.r our enter
prize ," • rd our fc>!e delign i-s, l" ce-eftablilh.
the conilitufion and roaftitmiosial
—Th.it no . 1 11: mer.t, no rair.r after ven
geance, no ambitious IV.OLvc, Iways our
j irpoi'e a j that ro ci flsall infnencc- our opinion ; that Wherever unar
c:,y Hull tease at the appearance of our
■- ins, and thole of the combined ar
- ne*, wi' will .conduct otirfelves as friend*
u.icl bio.hers ; that wherever %ve Iliad
meetwi.ii reiiltance we lhall know how to
felcit rite culpable, and spare the peaceable
inhabitants, the victims of the infamous
wile* of the jaaobins of Paris, trom whom
have arisen the horrors and calamities 6t
the war ; that we lhall in no way dread
the poignards of Marat jind the J.icobins ;
that we will deliroy the manufacture ol
these poignards, as well as that ot the scan
dalous writings by which an attempt i
ma,., to pe, vert the noble and generous
c..araflev of the French nation ; and,
fiiiaHy, in the :ninYe of my companions in
ins, I repeat the oath, that we will ii\ c>
urtd die free.
" The General in Chief of the French
f aritiv.
" DUMOURIER-"
C ln&uti of the National Convention onhear
!'/g of General Duniouriefs d-jferfion,
an I atte*>pi to re-ejiablijh royalty "■
frai'ce, isc. .
The firft (tep they took, (April 4th fit
ting) wa-,to lummon the executive council
to the bar, in order to prelt-i ve the peace
of Paris. The commandant general oi the
city, Santerre, wasfent for, a.ul ordered tc
concert with the civil magistrate in all
iiieafures which circumltaiices might re
quire. The Convention then decreed
tiiat the executive council iliouid inflant!)
nominate a general to fuccced general Du
mouricr, whom they declared a traitor,
and forbade him to be obeyed on pain oi
de3th and confifcation, and offered a rewarc
of 300,000 livres to any person that lhouli
brill* him dead or alive to Paris. A deput)
front Valenciennes announced at this day';
feuion, that a truly patriotic spirit reignec
'111 that city, notwithllanding the eftorts oi
Dumourier ; that there were ten thoufanc
determined men in the camp at Maubeugc.
and lix. ,houfa;id at Conde. — Seflion 01
Aprilii. —It was announced that general
Saliudet had entered Spain with two co
lumns of French troops, and had taker
polleffion of the v alley of Aran in the Py
rennees : 80 prisoners were taken fron
thtSpaniards, with 60 innlkets and 6ccc
cartridges, with the lols of only two chas
seurs killed aad four wounded. The tol
lowing particulars were laid before the
Convention, that 011 tiie sth of April at 1
in the morning, general Deveaux entereci
the city of Lisle, with ait order trom Du
mourier, for the troops under general
Maziertiki, then Rationed Uefore Litle, tc
repair to his (Dumouner's) camp, under
D-veJiux'charge. 111 reply to which the
adminil'tritors of Lisle produced the Con
vention's proclamation declaring Dumon
i ier a traitor to his country ; upon which
Deveaux and his attendant were arretted
--that 34,000 lbs. wt. of gunpowder hat
arrived fafe into Lisle from Caflel-r-dcfer
tioiis were daily taking place from Du
mourier's camp, but thole who continnec
faithful had been incorporated with tin
Aidtrians and Imperialists—a trunk wa
presented to the Convention, in which wen
found many papers difciofing Dumourier'
plans ot treachery and connexion with the
enemy—a Tyrolian captain was prefentet
tothe Convention,v. hohadfworii todevotc
hi.nfe-lf to. the defence of the republic ol
France. Oil th* 3d of February he deferr
ed from the Imperialists, and auuou cec
to general Stin ; ;en, that 5 Pruflianbattalion:
-wete advancing egainft Ruremond, and il
th" lie 'e of Maelfricht was not carried or
ivith confutable forces, the French woulr.
soon be obliged to raise it. Stingen repliec
that he never trusted a deserter—the lattei
a iked him, why the French army furmfliec
provisions and forage to the enemy ? Stm
eenfaid, it was a falfehood. When he
went to Aix-la-Chapclle, he announced
the lame facts to Miranda, who paid nt
more regard to then than Stingen.—li
was moved that the Tyrolian captain
Ihould enjoy the beneiit ot the law which
grants a penfiou to all foreign deierters.—
Referred to the military committee.—The
Hate of the northern frontiers was descri
bed to the Convention, in a letter from the
commissioners Carnot and Le Sage, who
represented the zeal and celerity employed
"1,1 providing tne molt efficacious means ol
defence. They added, that Dumounet
was abandoned by his army, and would
soon be left without a companion. Upon
his flight from St. Amand, several bat
t lUcini had fired 011 him, and shot his horse
from under him, and had arretted the pro
-refs of his aid-de-camp, who was un
lhorfed. Ml the heavy artillery, &c. had
Fbeenfafely conveyed to Valenciennes.
COMMUNICATION.
Tiie celebration of the birth-day of his
molt gracious majesty George the Third,
king"? Great-Britain, France, and Ireland,
by a few of h'l3 molt loyal subjects in Phila
delphia, and the publication of tiie toalt:
drank on that occalio'.l, is' a circumstance
(time and place considered) without paral
lel in the anaais of English impertinence.
It has baen said, that the great body of thi
people, if left to thimjeiiies, are a/uiayt
riy 'lt in their fenthne'nts and opinions ; but
t:m maxim is in direct oppolition to tl.e
sentiments of the Britilh government, ant!
to the opinions of the atsUPa
held at the tavern in Tenth-street: 1 his
being the cafe, was it prudent, was it a
mane of difcrction. to obtrude the'.r senti
ments on tho public, by pubiiU'.ing theii
toasts in 4 Philadelphia-oewfpapcrs ?— Flic
people of the United States with to fee the
world purged of kings, for they confidei
them as tiie pejh of the human race- Toaft
iu?., i s a method which focieti - have lately
adopted, to •rehmrie tlie articles ot their
po:iti;ai ihith. What then lh ill we lay to
men \vft.» tlare to drink in this country.
The red coats of London.'' Who are
•hefe red-coats ot London ' Are they no L
the lame Br'itilh hireling* whole progress in
the United States but a few >ears since was
marked by devallation, btirmug, rapes, and
murtkf, and who at this prefeni time are
employed in cutting the throats of ail w ho
deny the divine, indefeafabie, hereditary
right of kings, pafiive obedience, or no:i
refinance ? Are they not the hirelings of
a nation who have perfecutfd the philoU
pher Prieftlv, !i c s have found Paiae
of a libel for publilhin"; ths_Rights of Man,
and who give a loathsome jail as the por
.ion of those who have the courage to read
.hat celebrated work ? The health ot Ra
faillac>ill be drank by the regicide,tyr.mts
will fill bumpers to the memory of Nero
and Charles the ill: ; Cefar ISorgia will find
an advocate; traitors will not forget Ar
nold and Dumourier ; and libations will be
poured out to the " red coats ot London
ay the Britilh eimffaries at Philadelphia.
Americans look about ye; it is time to
ilirtinguifli friends from foes ; remember
your benevolent ally, the French nation :
.is republicans, as friends to the rights ot
man. forget not her cause, as far as your
ability extends to help her, for it is the
caule of the whole family of mankind.
PHILADELPHIA.
Wednesday, June 12.
On Saturday last, about ten miles to the
=ailward of Cape May, the frigate L'Atn-
Dufcade captured the brigCath i.ine, from
Jamaica to Philadelphia, which was sent
into.New-York. The lame day the fri
jate uasfeen in chace of a large merchant
lliip, said to be a Spaniard.
Letter from Get). Dampicrre (at present
'accessor to Dui'nourieij to the National
Convention of France, written before Ins
nomination to be commander in chief of the
lortheru army.—" Finding the republic in
Jauver, I have taken such extraordinary
neaVur'es as I hope will meet your appro
bation. I wiil rally to your Ituiidard a?
Tui«.-h as pofiible" the troops and all gooti
.itizens, to counteract the deligns of a trai
'or, who has now throw" oh the niafque.
[ dispatch to you citizen Tardie. an officer
>f enginry ; he has been a witness to all the
ntrigues of Diiniourier and his little .circle,
i d of all that horrid scene of villainy ol
which those he entertained about hirn were
:?.pable- He will let you into a full know
ledge of all this dark history. It is my
vviih to save my country : J wait with im
patience for your affiliance and proteaion.
I offer myfelf because I lee no otner gene
ral that w ill come forward. When a lu
perior is appointed that has his country:
salvation at heart, and the independence Oj
the republic, I will obey his orders to the
last extremity."
The following is copied from a London
paper of April 20.
" The intelligence which we communi
cated on Monday last, refpefting general;
Miranda, Stingen, and Lanoue, we welt
hopeful would have proved unfounded.
Subsequent advices, however, put it be
yond doubt, that they had fullered on the
leaffold. The fame advices state, that
Santerre, the commandant general of Pa
ris, has been appointed commander in chief
of the French armies. It is also confit ine
that Conde lias surrendered to the Auftn
ans. Valenciennes is regularly invelted.—
On the 13th instant Marat was arrcl.e l.
in consequence of»decree of the National
Convention, and committed to the lyifon
of the Abbaye."
By a veflel arrived here in three weeks
from Guadalolipe, we are informed that
great preparations are going on there
To repel the expected invafioil of the Kn
tiih ; that the difaffe&ed are impnfoned,
no persons allowed to leave that island or
M irtinique ; that several cruiters belong
ing to the linglifl) were hovering round
those iQands ; that all American vellel!
werefearched for French property, none
being allowed to carry any provisions ta the
inhabitants.
The English admiral, Gardner, is arrived
in the Weft-Indies, with a squadron of two
(hips of 98 guns, five of 74, and two fri
gates, and when the last accounts came
away he was cruising to windward of
lique. Sir John Laforey has lent tlic
fruity to join admiral Gardner. iwo
other (hips of war have also joined the
fqnadron, and another has arrived at Bar
badoes with troops.
General Dampierre, who after Dumoti
rier'sdefeftion took the command of the
French northern army, is a lincere Repub
lican, and an officer of conftderable milita
ry talents. This we have from a person
whu fsveval .'go, bsfvri wy ulea at
Dumourier'. treachery was entei t.uned,
declared Duinuurser an ftriftocrat at li^art.
The official intelligence that follows ap
pears in a French l'aiis paper of April B.—
" The posture ofaffairson our frontier is
hourly becoming more& moreencouraging.
Djimourier is nearly abandoned, and the
different corps of the northern army are
rapidly organizing into an invincible pha
lanx. The traitor in his flight had a nar
row escape from the fire of feveraJ bat
talions; his horse was killed under him,
a,.ci one of his a'.d-de-ca:nps fell by his
fide. All the heavy artillery is returned
f.,t'e to Valenciennes, and all the provision
ltores and ammunition to Douay. The
fortified towns on the frontier are in the
best poflible state of defence against the at
tack's of any force whatever, ai;d in a very
fliort time, from the exertions that art
making, will be proof most obftin.itt
fieffe, and provided ejmy necefl'ar>
for a great length of*Tme; WTiil e the ene
my are in an exhausted country, and mini
bring e\ irv brcakfad they make fotne hun
dreds of miles. Thus, it is to be hoped,
the check that treason has effeited on us,
will only ftrve in the end to disgrace the
traitors who perpetrated it; and it will
be fio small advantage to the republican
cause, if this event cures the French of the ir
extravagant idolatry for individuals, and
that filly propensity to enthusiastic adnn
lation of i heir leaders, upon every traulieut
gale of futcefs. Ignorant or ill tlifpoied
people do our cai;fe immense harm, con
ltaiuly spreading alarms and apprelienfions
on the Hate of our affairs, w tnch have aia
tal effect atadiftance. Recruiting isgoing
pn and discipline enlorcing. Our
eneni es well know that France can never
fall but by an ijl-dire£led application of its
ftre'ngth. On the fctla of April, (inftaiu)
after evacuating M aline*,an innnenfe value
of property an ived fafe into Douay. to lay,
90 pieces of cannon, 7,500 mufijuets of the
iirft quality, 2,ooo'pieces ot small cannon
,\ ith firelocks., 3.000 lbs. wt. ot copper, a
vait quantity of artillery implemsr.is, and
lastly a mortar that \\ as burlt in the bom
barding of Lisle, which the new lommif
lionert on the frontier have ordered back
to that place, in the name of the represen
tatives of the nation, which in their opinion
will be a molt acceptable present to the
people of Lille, whole firmneis and courage
once saved the republic, antl \> ill tave it
again."
Extrati of a letter from Gtrmantevin,
dated June 7.
" We had yesterday the largest and moit
refpetvable meeting of freeholders that ever
met iu this diffriit, in order to take into
conlidei ation the propriety ot the Cauii
and Turnpike laws ; when I liomus rOl -
reft, o»r repcefentative in the legi(latuf e,
brought forward ihe following refohit.o:^,
which were unauimoully adopted.
At a meeting of the inhabitants of the dif
tricls of Germantown, Roxbury, and
Briltol, held this 6th day of June, 1792,
at the house of Henry Swyre, innkeeper.
THOMAS DUNGaN, in the Chair.
Kelohed, .
THAT this meeting have the lughe.t
sense of the duty they owe to that govern
ment, that gives them protection in their
person; and property, and whillt they con
template the fui render of their private 111-
-It f<h' public good, they cannot conceive
that it is 1 utt for the legislature to graht
arts ~f incorporation, eltablifhing private
companies for cutting canals antl making
turnpikes at the expence oi private pro
perty : Therefore,
Rtf/'olved, That Andrew Wood ano A
braham Rittenhoufe, of the townlhip of
Roxbury, and Daniel Thomas and Jacob
Engle f rom the townlhip of Germantown,
and Paniel King and Doctor George Logan
from the townlhip ofßriftol, be anii they
are hereby appointed, to meet together, tv
draft a petition, copies of which are to be
circulated throughout the above townfliips,
and to be presented to,the legislature at
their next fefiions, praying a repeal ot fueh
parts of the a£ts of incorporation, as are
unconstitutional, and unjult, and fecurmg
to individuals a full compensation and re
compence for every damage they nave, 01
may fnltain by the turnpikes and canals, as
aforefind. . , ,• n.
liefolvei, That the committee be direct
ed and authorised tg meet at Nathan Le
verin-'s, on Saturday next at 3 o clock in
the afternoon, and there communicate the
proceedings of this dillrict with retpect to
the canal arid turnpike eonipan.es.
On motion, Is it the sense of this meet
in" that the ro id leading from Philadelphia
through Germantown to Chefnut Hill be
turnpiked, > « * ,;
The qiieftion being put, it was, on diw
tion, carried in the negative.
Extrati of a letter from a gentleman in
Savannah, dated Alay 22.
" Our frontiers have been attacked
lately in several quarters by the Indians.
Eleven negroes-were taken about a fort
niirht since from colonel Saunders's, which
is within 6 miles of North Newport Bridge.
The governor has been taking menfuies
for ourfecurity, but eur ultimate reliance
must be upon federal aid, which 1 hqpe
will be readily afforded, after the frequent
; r>et?e£tual measures which have been takes
v( ; ; ;sblifh a bf iwe«n tiesa and us.
[ Frow a French paper. 3
Copy of a'letter from V iennu, *jth March.
" Tile hopes of this court are not at all
abated : it flatters itfelf that tlie league of
despotic powers againlt France can meet
with few or no obllacles; no expence, no
pains are spar.cl to increase the number ot
combined enemies. The court of Vienna
particularly applauds herfelf for having io
happily diverted the attention of the peo
ple from their true interest, and entirely
corrupted their opinion in regard to the
nature ofthe French revolution. The no
bility, and all who hold a share i-n the ad
ministration of the government appear
enthulialHcplly devoted to the cauie ot
kings. However, notwithstanding all their
brilliant hopes, there is a fort of disquiet
prevailing among them vilible to the
fliohteft observer. The conlideratiuti,
that if republican France is not cnilhecl
and the war ended the prelent campaign,
gives extreme uneasiness, it being certain
thac prolonging it another year w ill involve
the "overnment in inextricable difficulties.
This reflexion alone damps the jov ot the
Germans even on the reception of the molt
favourable news. The people ofrepub.i
can France begin to be e.n object of terror,
and there is the ftrongelt rcul'on to believe
ihat the house of Aphria has at this mo
ment a set of proportions drawn up to
make peace with France upon any terms,
provided (he expressly disavows the repub
ican fyltern. There is another confa.era
ion that gives the prevailing party here no
mall trouble. It is forefeen that Fiance
tvill become a more military nation thai>
?ver by being preiled with the "league ot
joweis : the confequeiue will be that the
eague will be deserted by lome, and the
magnanimous exertions of France will £ a " 1
ter alliesaniong other powers. France will
.lien be at liberty to hurl perpetual ven
veance upon the house of Aultriajfrom gen
ration togeneration, till all her tyrants are
extincther peopU lree-,— 1 he present cam
paign will cxhi-.ult the vigour cf the ceffl
jination in a great titfgree, for every thing
w ill be done that it is puflible to do. Ten
.ot.Sand Croats are inarching to join Gen.
Wurmfer, who are deligned to enter Al
!a:e. The remembrance of the cruelties
ommitted in this department in 1744 by
: icfe barbarians is still alive, although the
French at lalk expelled them with horrid
fljuzhter. It is hoped they will again ex-
a fiiruiar fact froiii the hands of
free people."
PROBATION AR Y ODES:
[Continued/mi; A.' to?.]
o F> F, ni. _
To a Selkct fecflY of GREAT- HI En.
!on atkan approacleih the Holy ol : •»
' :rr 'i«M>eJ cut of hit fenfei »no knotktd down }
to depiecare uie wrath "I otiended
dgnity.
a Hcrrf rc Jlrideptes cardine f«e:te
14 YoT.dut.lUl pUftX.
MY Lords ! yoorfoet Unreal humbly knocks,
And begs permirtion to approach you« dooi,
I good my Lords! don't set me in the Hocks!
1 voyv 10 Gi.d, that I'll do 10 no moie.
Good Mister Sargrant ! (pare me this one time !
Lord, Sir ! you need not thus have koock'd n.e
down !
Wletch that I am ! — I'll freely own my crime
Dclei ves 1 Ihould be vvhipp'd thro all the town.
1 rever said, in secret yr u debaie
L;Ue Turkrjh Divan, or V,retn,npea s,
Hatching infernal plof jgainft the it ate—
Nay ! gcud my Lo«d»! 1 pray you l'paic my ears 1
I never said, whilst here in Hart you ft.
Like George's council, tin-.es as big,
bwoln by th«}nagic ot your y
Or folks tharVaik about without a wig;"
I never said that you were bound to do
Aught ell'e, but what your lorufhips fieely chofr ;
That States have any night to o.ueftion you,
Or thrust in your concerns a busy nufe.
1 never <jueftion'd your undoubted right
To give what titles, and to whom you please ;
YoJ ilia 11 be dukes and princes ! by this l'n,ht,
I'll lie as quiet as a moule in cheele.
I ne'er afi'erted that you r*Pd the bark ;
Or said it had an influence ever you :
You til fliall be dircflo-f, lirft in rank ;
And if you pleale, kings, lords, and commons too.
Gad so .' my gracious Lords, I've found at lat.
That I've been guilty of an indecorum :
I/; thus aadreffing you, I've been too toli,
I ihould have fir 11 atfdrefa'd his tear/hip Quorum:
Great Sir ! but t.-cth, this measure will not hie
1 he jo emu file 1 to HIM mull use ;
So, if you jleafe, 1 il flop a tiny bit,
And hold a conference with rnadam Muf,
VERITAS prefentshis compliments
0 Mr. Dunlap ; and la»ur.\ot
mm to reptiblilh in the American Daily
Advcrtifer the three pieces from the Isa
[ional Gazette (No. 166, 167, US)fignecl
Veritas, addrefled to the Prelideni ot
the United States.
Several communications are una
voidably de/errtd to Saturday.
price of STOCK.
Six per Cents J 7/4
Three pet Cents 9.'®
Deferred - ,0/
Jttarik vf the U.i'tsJ States 7 H- c «French St. Domingo Affairs.
[Continued from onr lad.]
Letter written by the Municipality of
Croix-les-Bouquets,, to Santfianax,
National Civil 'Comvpjfioner, Aprils.
'' /"CITIZEN Commifiioner, you have
been informed by the citizen go
vernor general, pro tempore* of *fc-hat has
palled in our quaiter since the 20th oi
January k(l.—~An unfortunate infurrec
t ion, of which the consequences are well
known, has made its appearance in the
plain country : conCderablc bodies of the
insurgents colle&ed in force ; and we ap
plied to our brethren of Port au Prince foi
relief, who generously came to our aflill
ance, and have continued it from January
24th to this day. The services of tliofe
brave citizenshave been conllantly devoted
to us,but notwithflanding their endeavors;
notwithftandiog we have killed a greal
number of the reyolted villains in the le
vera! engagements we had witkthem ; w(
Jolt all hope of reducing them before tin
rainy season set in, unless strongly rein
force. J by our brethren of Mirebalais
L'Arcahaye, Leogsne, and Petit-Guave,
PArcahaye, Leogane, and Petit-guave,
We had already received the ftrongcil as
finances 'hat our brethren of Martbalait
would march to our al:iftancc with 20c
men ; one hundred w.ll accoutred cavalry
"were also getting ready to adill uj from 1'
Arcahai e ; and a hundred more from Leo
gane. We were making preparations tc
receive these generous friends and bre
thren, who having formed a cordial unior
.with owr brethren of Port au Prince and
ourselves, might have crufhrd the revolten
by attacking them on every quarter. Wt
■were in full hopes of completely re-e(lab
lifhing order before the rainy season, when
all on a sudden a prpc'amation, issued b)
you. was sent ir.ro the several parishes, anc
pjlfied all our (Irength. Those brave
friends and brethren of ours, who were foi
the dHe execution of the laws, found them
felvcs fettered at the moment they w««
flying to our afiiilance. and from an inci
dent, oi which we had net the moil dif
tant appreheiifion, we found ourselves in j
Ctur.tion wot ie tl.a i death. Not having
received your proclamation ofHcially, Citi
zen Coromiflioner, we only knew of its ex
iileiice by means of letters from the muni
cip-litics of M'r.-balats and Port au Prince.
We do not alk why it was not transmitted
to U3: but will you believe, that of all
the great misfortunes we have experienced
Jince the revolution, the gteateft have ori.
ginated from your proclamation ? by
means of this fatal ediA we found ourselves
3t once deprived of a powerful aid, the
only jfliftance that it was pofGble for us to
procure-,, fjnee of all the tr.»ops sent hither
from the mother coun'ry, none came
among 11s, and yet we are equally her
children, art'! it is not her intention to
abandon us. By your proclamation, Na
tional Civil Commissioner, you exposed us
to the necefilty of abandoning our pro
pe-ty,Jf brethren of Port au Prince
relinejuiflien our cause. If we are forced
to decamp, at that moment the revolt will
become general, and that part of the flat
countr, which is rtill in our pofFeffion,
will become the prey of robbers and
plunderers, and consequently the reft of
thi province also.—For two months pall
our brethren of Port au Prince have ex
posed themselves to defend our property,
an ' for the fame space of time have fur
nifr.ed v.a with all the means in their power
for fubfifiing the citizens employed in our
defence. For two months they have
granted an asylum to our women, children
and old men ; snd lastly, for two months
have they lodged and fed all fuel; of oli
unforlonate felloiv citizens, who had no
other place of refuge from the fury of the
Brigands (negro robbers) bu! the bosom
ps tliefe generous brethren. We are ig
norant of what have been the supposed
.crimes of that unhappy town: all we
know is, that it has yielded obedience to
the decree of the 4th of April, that it has
been attached to the defence of our pro
petty, and that (he furnifiied u» with im
portant means of defence. ,
What 1 eitrzen national civil commission
er, do you delay tc> march out againfl the
Brigands after the reduft on of Port-au
Prince—What! are you in hopes that the
citizens of Cul de Sac will arm againfl
their friends and brethren, againfl the ci
tizeti3 who flied their blood for them, ar.d
lastly, againfl a town from which they have
received favours without number' —
national civil commissioner, we
think you
have been deceived, and that you are ra
ther officious in adminidering justice to
viituous citizens already obedient to the
law, and who always look for a father and
a protestor in a national delegate. Citizen
commissioner, the nation sent you hither
to rertore public order and tranquility : a
civil war is upon the eve ofbuHlini* out,
hasten to receive the proofs of afFection
from the citizens of Port-au-Prince, and
you will find that they are the great sup
port of the Preach revolution in this
country. Do not dqlay to come in per
son, and be a witness of our situation, and
you will confcfs it to be ind/fpenfibly ne
cefiary to employ all the dr'ength of th<
colony in reducing the feives, and that the
had delay owl b«teeised with the moll
ferions invite the paiiflies
who are coming to onr relief, to fly and
join to our dear neighbours those forces,
which are at your difjjofal. By this means
you will become our deliverer, and gain
our entire afFeftion."
\_From the General Advertiser..]
THE great even:s which hare of la:c si;
rapidly succeeded each other in Europe,
astonish the observer and have baffltd ali
expectation and calculation. Dumourier,
not Io»g since the object of our warmefl
praises, now deserves with more justice,
our fevered execrations. The belt friends
of the French cause have been heard more
than once, while he was at the zenith cl
his glory, to lament that a man of his more
than doubtful principles (hould ast so im
portant a part in their armies. His mili
tary /kill is acknowledged on all hands ;
but his employers, it >vell ascertained,
especially of late, much doubted the since.
rityofhis political principles, and enter
tained- serious fears from the well known
vsifatility whi h formed a principal fea
ture of his character, and his popularity
with his army alone, determined his sup
porter» in the National Convention from
abandoning a man fit for the base in
trigues of a corrupt con t, and not for a
soldier in the cause of equality.
His defection in the ifl'ue is nothing (hort
of a victory over the arts of despotism and
the m, chinatious of traitors. His pre
emption persuaded him, that the cause
relted on his flloulders, that in his-army he
was all powerful, and that if his army wil
led a king the nation mull have a kin-g.
The Austrian commander Cobourg ap
pears o have entertained the fame senti
ments ; but both were egregioufly deceiv
ed, because neither had calculated the en
ergy of a whole people, ftruggiing to pre
fcrve that freedom, they had risen to aflert :
and had tailed tho' imperfectly.
That Dumourierendeavoured to reflore
a limited monarchy and to prevail on his
army to f- pport him in tile attempt, is as
certained beyond a doubt l that he proved
totally unfuccefsful, and was obliged to fly
to the Audrians with a few of his crea
tures, is equally Accounts diffei
as to the number of his followers; bul
none exceed a few hundred, and mod agre;
that he escaped the just resentment, if hi<
patriotic army narrowly indeed.
It is worthy of remark, (and theobfer
vation will put the charafterof traitors and
tyrants in their true light) that bot|i Du
mourier and Cobourg's manifedoes contain
the mod palpable absurdities. Dumourier
after fighting like a lion in the cause ol
repuUicanifm declares, that France can be
happy under monarchy only, and Cobourg
as the organ of the confederacy declares,
that the former French conditution is what
France should have, though that very con
st l ution was the pretext with Audiia and
/russia to commence hostilities against the
nation—When the paths of reaion and ol
right are abandoned, it is not possible tc
ast confidently.
Time alone can discover what Dumou
r,er's v:cws were, when he espoused
the cause of liberty with such apparent
warmth ; it is surmised he was wholly im
pelled by views of felfilh ambition. Time
will also determine whether his treachery
was not also occasioned by another eccen
trie flight of that wild passion : Be it as it
may ; his charafler is now marked with
its real damp, and the doom of a traitor
awaits him.
The mind turns with pleasure from a
view of the b?fe conduct of a man whose
talents might have dtferved him immor
tality, to the contemplation of a great na
tion druggling under accumulated difficul
ties. We find her representatives calm in
rnidit of tTie florm, and deliberating
with firninefa and precision. From their
courage .'nd perfcv ranee, from the justice
tht which is that of humanity,
we anticip. hat the republic will rife
superior to every difficulty, secure by hei
success, h.r liberties., and emancipate the
world.
TH.IS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
, By MtVTHEW CAREY
* Nai jiß, Markct-Strret,
Embelli.licd .with a MAP of the orefent SEAT
i' OF WAR,
No. I, Of a NEW SYSTEM OF MODERN
GEOGRAPHY.
OR, A GEOGRAPHICAL, HISTORICAL
AND COMMERCIAL GRAMMAR ;
And prclcnt State of the Several
KINGDOMS OF THE WORLD.
eON TAIN I NG
I. The figures, motions, an J diftancej of the pla
nets, according to the Newtonian fjftem anc
the latest observations..
11. A general view of the earth coafijered as :
planet; witJi several ufeful geographical defi
nitions and problems.
111. The grand d.visions of. the globe into lane
and water, continents and islands.
IV. The situation and extent of empires, king
dotns, dates, provinces, and colonies.
V. Their climates, air, foil, vegetab'e produ&i
ons, metals, minerals, natural curiofit;es, Teas
rivers, bays, capes, promontories, and lakes.
VI. The biras and beaftspeculiar to each countrv
VII. ODfervati. ns on the changes that have beer
anywhere observed* upon the lace ot natun
since the m early periods of Liftory.
VIII. The history and origin of na .ions ; the":
forms of government, religion, revenues
taxes, naval and military strength.
X. The genius, manners, cuiioms, and habiti
of the peonle.
K. I heir. :ge, learning, arts, sciences, ma
nufactures, and comsn<*rce.
Kf. Fne c!) ti rules, rtruftures, ruins, and ar
tificial curiosities.
'CII. ihe longitude, latitude, bearings, and dis
tances of tne principal placet from Philadelphia.
TO WHICH ARE A OPED.
. A Geographical Index, with the names, anc
places alphabetically arranged.
I. A Table ot the Coins ot ail Nations, and the!
value in Eugljlh Money.
11. A Chronological Table of remarkable events
from the Creation to the present Time,
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE. F.fq.
ri.e Aitior.omical Part by James Fergulo.,l- .RS
To ivhub have been added,
I lie late Discoveries of Dr. Heilchel, and ot lie:
eminent Aftronomera.
Ibe firJl American edition, (orr*3*d t improved
and greatly enlarged*
Tils pnblifliar of t-His work, thankful for the pat
ronage with which he has been honored, fub
mi-cs the prefert number the infpe&ion 01
his fellow-citixens, and lays before them
1 he terms of publication ;
I. This geography shall be pubJ.lkeJ in forty
eight weekly numbers, each containing twen
y-four pages of letter press.
il. In the course of the publication will be de
ivered the following maps .•
I- The world. 2. Europe. 3; Sweden, Den
mark, Norway, and Finland. 4. Russia. 5.
icotland. 6. England and Wales. 7. Ireland.
>. France. 9. Seven United Provinces, jo. Au
fiian and French Netherlands, ji. Germany.
.2. Switzerland. 13. Poland. 14. Spa n and
Portugal. 15. Italy. jG. Turkey in lurojte.
'7* Alia. 18. China. 19. Hindoftan. 2o» At
ica. 2i. North Ainenca. 22. British Ame
ica. 23. Weft-Indies. 24. S.euth America.
15. Planifphete of the earth. *26. Countries
ound the north pole. #27. Discoveries made
; y Captains Cooke and Clerke. *28. New
tfampfhire. *29. MafTachufetts. *30. Con.
ne&icut. *31* Rhode- Island. *32. Vermont.
New-York. *34. New-Jei fey. *35.
Pcnnfylvania and Delaware. *36. Mavjland.
"37. Virginia. *38. North-Carolina. ' #39.
South-Carolina. *40. Georgia. *41. The
Sphere. *42. The Copernican system.
N. B. All the maps marked with stars are
added to this edition, exclusive of those in the
ast London edition.
That no disappointment may arise from sub
scribers expe&ing what the publisher neither pro
nifes nor is able to perform, he givej this early
fe explicit notice, that to Tome of the States it will
aeiiripoflible for him t® give maps fully accuraete,
no Jate surveys having keen made ; and it is -hard,
ly neceflary to observe, that it falls not within
his plan to go to the expense of surveys. But in
every instance, he will avail himfclfof the It ft
materials extant : and such corrections and addi
tions as his utmost exertions can procure, shall
be made.
111. The geography of the United States is un
dertaken by gentlemen of literary abilities, who
have engaged to give a more fuil'and fatisfaflo
ry account of it t/ian any ever published. li
will extepd to 250 or 300 pages, although in
the British edition, and even in that of 1 792,
it makes only abo»t 30.
IV. Should the work exceed forty-eight num
bers, the surplus will be delivered gratis to the
fub<cribers.
V. Ihe price of each number will be a quarter
dollar, t# he paid on delivery.
VI. Such fubferibers as do not choose to receive
the work in numbers, are to pay three dollars
at the time of fubferibing.
The printer, anxious to render this work as
perfect as the nature of it will allow, moil ear
nestly requefb, that such gentlemen, throughout
the United States, as have it in their povver, w>IJ
furnifh him with documents for correcting the
past t'nors in the geography of America, and for
furnifhing a more complete fj stem of geography
than has yet appeared.
The title page, l.ft c f subscriber's names, wTtft
the account of the Newtonian fvrtem, &c. & c
willbe given in the 47 th and 4 Sth numbers.
N. B. The subscribers, and the public in »e
---neral are rcquefled to consider the fallowing very
material circumftance--The London quarto edi
tion is fold here, tor fifteen dollars, although it
contains only 25 maps and plates, and of the geo
graphy of the United States, 25 hai been obfer»ed
above, only about 30 pages—where*., Carey',
edition Will co.tain 42 maps and plates, and have
rwo hundred pages of letter press more. And ic
need not be observed, that the fevenfeen maps to
be added, are of more importance to Americans
by far, than the 25 London ones. The observa
tion will apply with equal force to the letter prefj
additions. r
The maps will be published in such order of
fuccelhon as they are engraved, and direflions will
be printed for the proper runner of placing them
by the bookbinder.
May 22.
IHave claims to about two h-undred an J 1
| fifty thousand acres of LAND in the state of .
Kentuckey, in different parts ef that country,
lome of which 1 know to be equal to • al t
ofwhchl am inclined to dispose of, ei'th'er by
entire file, or by admitting one, or two partners
to «hoin the agency on the whote will be coai
mitted.
One frunh of the will be required ia
hand, either in caih, merchandise', or such afl'ets
as may be converted lo adlive ule, therefidue
may be apportioned In convenient instalments
The purchasers to give security, on the land,
or oth<*rwa)s,as suits theoi.
Knowing that theie is a prejudice againf} the
titles of land in that state, which is more general
than just, lam willing to ftipuhte in the con
trast, that a discount, or dflluftion, (hall be
made, where any land may be loft, by reason ef a
def.tfive title.
Any person inclining to such a purchase, is re
ceded to write to me by post, in answer to
"bom, more particular inforrration will be given.
HENRYS AN K S.
Richmond March 20, 1793. 2a wtf
TO BE RENTED,
Anu poffefficn given io July next.
A Merchant MIL L,
Also, a cou , ; <y and a saw mill,
e'fher 1 arately or togedier, with all the
c. . e- lencies thereunto belonging, confining of a
f oq -ramto d'-allipg hnufe, (tore house, graniry,
Coopers tables, &c. all in perfect good or
oer and almost new. Ikuate in a fine wheat coun
try, on a con'lant and plentiful dream of water,
at the head of a navigable creek,called Miflipilion,
froml whence. the fliailops trar,f,ort flour to Phila!
delphia without any trouble to the miller, and ad
iJining a fiourilhing village that always affords a
very ready fate for the offal of tile merchant mill
and an .Sundance of cuftora to the country an.
jaw mills. Thole advantages render these mifld
ntrior to none in this country; and the fixations
for a ft. re , s Cl , ua | any in (hs The
merchant mill is three (lories high vrfrh two pair
0/ burr stones, double geai'd, a rolling fcreene and
lann that cleans wheat inta both hoppers, two
fcolu ( cheas, and a machine for holding' that goes
by water. This mill manufaflures principally
luperfinc floor, that is much efteerr.ed as such in
hiladelphia Fcr terms apply to Robert Lewis
and Co. merchants in Philadelphia, or the fob
lerioeis jietr the prp.nifes.
ELIZABETH THORNE.
mr-.r PETER CAVERLV.
wlilford, Kent County, i'tate of Delaware
May. 1, i 79J . 2awt
JUST PUBLISHED,
[Price one quarter cf a dollar]
THE
laws
UNITED TT A T E S,
Palled at the lad S.-fßon of Co igrefs, which
complete vol. 11. "
Pullijhtd by Authority,
A Complete INDEX is a.toed for the volume
Philadelph.a—Printed b, Chilus Ssf Swain r.
Printers of the Laws of the United States; and
'"Id by them at tneir Office No 249, Market-
Street: also by the priscipal Eooklellers, where
(pi. I. is to be had.
JUST PUBLIS HE D,
And to be fold by T hom as Dobson, Wil
liam Young, Robert Campbell-
Meiirs. Rice and Co. and John M,
Cu I.loch, No. x. North Third-street,-
a n examination of the late pro
ceedings in. Congrcfs reflecting the
official conduct of the Secretary of tbe
1 re.afury; with Observations, on the
application of loans from Holland, negoci
ated under the arts of the 4th and 12th ef
Anguft 1790 —The price of the above
pamphlet 13 three fifteenths of a dollar, c,
4d. 1-2. April 24. 2aw tt
A Pressman wanted*^
One who i<= diligent, and hi 3
business well, may have an eligible situa
tion, and regular employ.—A; ply at this
office.
printed B r
CHILDS AND SWA IN E„
AT THElfc OFFICE NOk 20Q, HlflH f-TXEBTj
KZA ft FirTK-STSEFT,
'HIUPFLfHU-