•Numb. 5 x of Vol. 11. j
A coM'AtiATtvs view of the evils
of Licentiousness a.d Despot-
Isi*l •
r from a late Irijh paper.]
ON Sunday the ad of December 1 792,
til? volunteers of Lifburn went to the
prefbytei ian Meeting house ot that town.
\vhere an uccalitiiial was deliv
e.vtl :o tiieui by their excellent Pastor.
"1 he following extracts from the sermon
we think, will be accept b-e to our rea
tiers, on account their liberality, am
the found principles of liberty container
in them.
• IF all power ami civil authority bt
derived from the PEOPLK, and if those
to whom it has been delegated, have gen
er.il y aba ed the sacred trull reposed ii
them, how hath it happened tliat the peo
ple ,ave been led to insert any individtia
rr body of men " itli such a degree of pou
ec, so liable to be thus abufetl. I beiievi
the moil probable answer to this queftioi
is. that the people, dreading the evils o
liieniioufnels, have tamely fubmitrcd tc
{he horrors ot despotism. Let us, theie
tore, briefly examine both, and compun
the o.ie w;th the isther. By liceiitiuiifuef
ii meant government oy a lawl. 1110b, ir
v apJlition to the will of the community
By despotism we are to understand gm era
uient by a tyrant, cjr a number ot tyrants .
tbu- it appears that they are nearly alii
ed to each other and are both i.ico ,!iftenl
with liberty, and the true end of govern
went. In avoiding one of thole evils
mankind have often run into the other
but all well conllituted governments guari
equally against both.
•• It has been usual in pall ages, and 1
not uncommon at this day, to dticribe tht
evils of iiceatioufnefs by every epilhe;
which is calculated to rouse dread anc
honor in the breall ot man; while at tht
lame t me, the evils of despotism are pas
fed over urmotftfeS, <ffi H fpoke'i of, de
fciibed in terms very much refemblingth<
lan mage of to iplailaiue. The tonfe
nuence is, th it the people are in danger o:
led to prefer despotism, to the teni
uorary irregularity of the p< ople. called 1!
centioufnefa. If such sentiments had bet 1
confined to men of fl villi principles, tin
enemies to tile liberty of mankind, I ihouU
rot have noticed them in this difiourfe
but such sentiments have been adopted
aud recommended to our atte nio , nuclei
the fanftion of names truly dignified, am
highly refpe table. If liceiitiouliiel's hat!
dellroyed its thoufa ds, despotism has de
ltroyed its millions, and, therefore, \> hie
of the two is the moll to be dreaded ?
Licentiousness, having nothing to sup
port it but the tumultuous efforts of ;
1110b, isoffhort duration, and soon find:
its own remedy. Despotism proceeds u
ait under all the function and authority
and islupporttd by ail the power and re
sources d; eltabiiiiied government.
•• Much uutihief 11111 ft be effected before
it cab" clearly perceived, and « hen oiui
eltabiahed. nothing but the molt rcfuhitt
awl perlevermg itruggle* of the w iiol«
t oiiiumnity is able to fubvrrt it. 1 i is true
licentiousness may be compared to ttu
V. hirl wind, wh-fe nan ow, tliicluat.ngpath.
i< marked by ruin. Hut despotism. rutin
Ik's famine, It Iking aci<>fs the devoiei
I in,l, ar.d blowing mildew from hislhiivei
led lips, which tai.us and scalds the goldei
car, and hints eveiy vegetable production
" Licentiousness refcmbles the moun
l ain torrent which ovei leaps i.£ b.;. ... , anc
t weeps along flotks and heids and a.l th
labours of the hufbandmm but fpeedilj
returns to its usual channel. De potifm i
like the stagnant level link, out of which
jli'ue in conllant fiuceflion, foul vapours
loaded with plague and pestilence, hcknefs
mid death. Licentiousness relembles tht
burnings of a fever, whith, however pain
ful they may be, are of short dui atiou, anil.
(ametimes,renovate the conditution. Def
) potifni is like the consumption which ap
proaches by flow and almolt imperceptiblt
lteps, but in time witheis the fiefti, ant
parches the vitals, and, in the entl, reducts
ihe frame, to a pale, emaciated, a lifeltll
iorpfe.
111 a word, despotism deflroys all the
energies and every a£tive principle ot the
human foul. It is that ravage, deadly ene
my of man—against whom every man is
bound in duty, to wage perpetual warfare.
From the view which hath been taken ol
this fubjett, it appears that the abuse oi
power by civilgovennents, hath contribu
ted not a little to prevent the peaceable
Mid benevolent effeits of chriltianity in the
world.
By P. PRE NE AU : Pubtijhcd Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
WEDNESDAY, April 24., 1793-
•' The period in which we live appears
rem ukabiy Itrange and eventtu , and big
with the molt imp >rtant consequences to
til.' virtue, liberty, and happioels ol the hu
ii),in race ; —We have seen the lhir oi lib
erty and science which arose in tiie eait,
and for ages illuminated the nations . —
calling upon them itsfaint and fitting rays;
again nave we feei) it riling in the welt, and
b.a.uini; in free splendor on a mighty em
pire. Under its oenign influence eh ive
seen that empire burlting into freedom
and consequence. eflab.ilhing a goiern
ment on the uroad and solid balis of the ci
vil :nd religious rights of man; we have
seen its beams dart along the Atlantic,
again re-il.uininatinga. d rcg ner. ling th«
ilaiuiis of tile old world ; already has the
nidlt respectable kingdom ii 1 mope, ior
p ipulation, fc ; encc, and extent ot teri iio
ry, Ourlt afunde• the chains ot deljpotii'm
bne rites superior to the moll alarm ig ami
formidable combination, and is at th.s mo
ment hurling deitruction upon her devoted
and dt lettable foe : already have we bt
held our native country advanc ed from the
molt deplorable of circunilt.iuce.-', t<> tree
dam <Jf trade, independence <>t legiflauirc.
and perfect ecurity. Under the I iflue c<
of beneolence and patriot lui, bigoti)
vanilhes from our land ; religious ammo
lity and antient prejudice decay, and ever)
Ipetif:; of fiery zeal and perfectition foi
conscience, loon melts down into brother
ly kiiidncfi; and christian charity ; v. ho car
tell whether these thing', may not be sub
servient 111 the councils of the divine mind
to the introduction ol that happy era
when the glory of our C>_OD (hall till tin
earth, and good will lliall triumph and pre
vail !
'■ 111 contluCan, permit me. in a fe
words, to addle Is you my friends, win
coirpofe the arintd citizens ot the L fbut i
Union * 1 on have atlumed a name and ;
highly honourable o you, a.
men, as chriiiians, and members ot a frrt
tate ; —aee that by your conduct yon brinf
.10 disgrace upon it.
'• Let that internal union, «h ch aili
11 les the hearts, a"d directs the efforts o
he virtoou>, in the cause ot liberty anc
ighteouf.iefs, ever reign amo gu • Divid
dcounfels are never crowned with fuc
.efi—A house divided againll ltfelfmuli
fall into mill.
'■ Different fentimcnts and different
I'iews, will occationally arise, in the bell
•e b uiated of trail mortals. Suftei
mi such differences to degenerate inti
iirife, contention or anin.olity Lettverj
elhlh, or vain pillion be faciiliccd t' tlit
tioiiour and interelt of you corp . —out i
, not enough that you prekrve unioi
jiuongyourlclves ; for it >oi< " love then
•ainch love you, w hat lew aid have ye ?
ind if you salute you brethren only, whai
:io ve more than others .'"—Men of indif
ferent characters do lb likewise.
" Let u annuity, thertlore, and gener
ality of foul, bind you to f very other com.
>any of volimteers, and to each other
Von may one day be called upon to ac
I . concert, undertht bainiersot yourcoun
try, and in de.ence ol her rights ; in u .ior
you will lay the lurelt foundation ol fuc
reis. L>eiy attempt to deltroy thai at
iVition, t-> dissolve that union, whuii hail
„itherto, and 1 trust ever will, diilinguill.
:ne armed citizens of Ireland, ought to b«
.onlidered by you, as proceeding from tiic
.neuiies ol your peace, inteieit and ho
nour.
In a word, cultivate union with eve
ry virtuous inhabitant of your native coun
try. With ali your chriltian brethren, ol
very feet, pariv and denomination. Re
member that one grand delign of CHRIS"!
coining into the world, was, to eltabiilii
peace and uufon among men.
-;«• The Lifbiirn Union is composed ot
members of the ellablilhnient, Catho
lics, Sectders and Prtlbyterians.
Trar.flation of part of a letter from an of
licer in the French National Guards, tc
his friend in the United States, dated
December i 6, 1792.
'• I am pleased to learn from your let
ter that you arrived late in North-Ameri -
ca after an agreeable pallage. No doubt
you have long belore this time been in
formed of the events of the 10th of Au
j'uft, anil others subsequent. The rapidity
of our conquells during the autumn has
been altomlhing ; towns every where
threw open their gates at the approach ot
our armies, and valt numbers oi Pruliian
soldiers ffijferled their ftnndards to join m
in niakinjfhe.td againll the tyrants ot tht
earth ; they generally came over to lib in
compauiei'ol from icoto jSO at a time, as
loon as tney had learnt that the 1 rench (lit:
not eat their prisoners, as these poor de
luded meil had been taught to believe.
Great numbers of the Houlans vere ta
ken by cur forces, \v th arms in their
hands,' upoh whom we infli£ted 110 othei
pnniimneut than caufiiig them to kneei
down and Mi's the tree of liberty. Oil:
troops w ill have little chance of wintei
L[uartcrs, the executive council having or
dered .;i iflccU'.iut purfuii. of the enemy to
tie kpt tip. It is uncertain whether tht
,-mperor .iid the king of Prulfiu will try
:otiier campaign, tli<. re bc-i.g great infur
eciio ,so the people'both at Berlin and
> le ina. i'liere are however foine appear
iikcs, by 1.0 means equjvuc. l, of a gener
d war with all. or nearly all. the powers
jf l uropr. The comer.tiou has pallid a
Ic-cree to exe* t the llrength of the nalioi
11 favour ot all the cities, provinces, ant;
.i.igdoms of Europe, and even ot tin
.1 hole world, who are willing to be lrce
md to exterminate their tyrants, l-nt il
> not their delicti to take polltllion <;l at:
ich of territory, thc-ir aim 1;. if pollible.
o annihilate royalty from the fare ot tht
?arth, ai d to convert Fun.pe into a chai.
.f amicable republics, which it is hopec
a ill iii great part be accomplilhed in tei
cars, i.vtn George of England will noi
< (pared, aid at th ■ proper time we lhai
■o u tier the triumphal t ltandard ot li
>e. ty to dethrone the d. fpotic cm) crors 0]
Ji.na aid Japan. However improbable
ucli events 111 y now appear, tiiey will
Holt ccm uly come to piss ; and Ido no
lelp.ii". even in my time, of 1 ving to lee
. fodety of Jacobiiu eitabliihed at Pekin.
it Mexico! and at Koine. Kings, nobles,
irtd pr.elts are the threediftinctorders and
jodies :i£ -inlt whom we are reloivtd to
•anywi.-tftr wteriy vumju ; lh<jd. A;
:o England, we have nothing to fear fVftJTi
ler : the people at targe are tor lis, but
lare not speak out till an army is landed
here to keep them in connten nee. There
s at this moiricnt a society in Lo cion, coll
iding of at lealt three ihoulaad luiglilh
|ac.bills, a deputation from whom his
ately appeared before the convention, to
-ift'er, on'the part of the society, lix thou
sand pounds lie; ling towards supporting
the loldier* of liberty. The deputation
iv..s politely received m the bar of the con
tention. Ihe PrHident rose up, and in
I' rtned them that lie hoped, in a lhort time
.lie r publicans of France would go to
ioii"i-.iiulute a uatio.ial conventionin Eng-
Lnd.
'I 011, in America, cannot be ignorant ol
the tumults andinfurrefliont inlreland and
Scotland. 111 the latter country, the po
jiulace very lately difpi lyed king George's
.Kigy, pnadedit irom place to place, and
finally 1 lit oft the head and committed tile
whole toth- hames.
The convention lias decreed that Louis
Cap t (ball be arraigilfd at their bar for
tri.il, and in a lhort time, 110 doi.bt, he will
oav the forfeit ot his crimes, and exhibit a
dreadful example tu the insolent despots
of the world, who arc- already toticiing
upon their thrones, aud who would have
put to tlie (word all the inhabitants of Pa
ris, if thro' thsir r/iea"<i or.ly afu gle hair
from the head of the A ijiria.it A itoiuettt
icd fallen to the :—
It appears certain to me that Louis will
be ext. uted. The members of the con
vention are in great p.rt unanimous on
this fubjtct, and the whole city of pari;
impatiently waits the event.
Aa 10 that pantherefs. the (he-wolf ol
Anllria, (the late queen of Frame) it i:
thought, ihe will be brought to tbe tnbv.-
nal, a> w ell as madam Elizabeth. As I v\ a;
for some time upon duty v\ith the guards
at the temple, I might give you a long de
tail, if time would allow. This pile ol
buildings is composed of a large court, 01;
about ail acre and ail halt of ground, di
vided into two parts by a chateau audtht
tower in which the king ajid his iaimly are
confined. Four centincls are placed at tht
entrance into the Hi eet, and 12 in ilitlcr
ent parts of the court. Four pieces of ar
tillery, loaded, are mounted t<y the from
ot the Chateau, along which every one i
obliged to pals that would go into the gai •
den, aiul fiom thence to the l.rcct. li
this pallage are again fix centinels, and be
sides thcie, four of the corps de garde ii
the pallage leading lo the tower, and 25
others upon con li an t iluty in tlillerent pEi -
cos.—For the exterior fei vice oi the tower
[Total No. i 55.J
there are 760 men. I happened to be
among those who were llatie.i.ed within.
The door'of the fir (I apartment lipon en
tering the tower is th;it of the I. ,e-wolf
(Auto 111 tte) and Iter little one.—the eloor
of the feconel, belongs to the wolf (Louis,)
and in the thu d the royal pnfonei all meet
•it t!ie ifatcd hours, to tneir meals, when
those u ho have the curiolity may fee them
palling tronj one apartment to the other.
1 heir dinner ifca.r ed to then'in tvo co
vered ballets, acci n pan.ed by as n any
municipal officers with (carves on their, I
was upon guard one day when the royal fa
mily w tie to be eonduc ed lion, then lt\eral
apartments, immediately before br. akfaft.
My uniform had nothing brilliant about it ;
1 had 011 <,11 old greycoat, blaik hretcheji,
blue lioekings, ami a flapped hat, .. uch the
uoiTe for w earing. In my hand's 1 !. da
pike, tile handle of which uns painted of
three different c< lours.
I he niun.cipal off cer having gKeti me
.he cou.iiterlign, he immediately made >
g to t;ie jai.er to open the apartim nts.
lintauily the doors were unlocked and the
prifouers palicd 111 reviev before us. "E-veu
lie leemingiy trivial tranfacuon M open
ng the doors gives an alai m thro? a-teat
put tof the court. The elallic fpting'of
the lock sand the rattling ol tile chains is
err.bJe to tile eat that is not perpetually
iccuilomid to it, 111 this folicary maniion.
Mail ame hlizubeth Capet and the two
iitic ones firli made their appearance pi e
veiled by the municipal ottner. My di.fs
their eye, and they looked at 11 e«
with.(lie lame diftlainfiil afrOgerice', as if
Ll.ty uad been at court,in Verf.idles. v l hey
were under .. netellity of palling very near
to me, and even so clofeasto touch nie
k tile ltaircaie being vety little more than
l »o feet wide). —In 11-turn; I loektei at
Litem with equal dildain, ftirveying the
w.lio'e lauiily irom head to, loot, aiidgiv
itigiheni to iiiiderttand by a liunifuant
as they were not difigned
.0 bo, . eat ... nj. ulTu'.;... <
After breakfaft they w ere again fepara
:ed into their l'evefal rooms, lor they can
lave no other communication with Capet,
hail at meal tunes, and in prefeuee ot the
nuniiipal ofr.ceis. 1 hey a.e alio forbidden
0 ul'e enigmatical language, as ihey were
.von tto do in times pan. All tie win
low s and other apertures ot their rooms
ire doled with lattices which a,e so ior.-
rived as only to admit light from al;o\e.
In the chamber of Capet and in that of his
ivite there is fixed a laigecap of lbntv
ivith an oaken 1 row 11 above it, and iultcad
jl a looking glass the national colours and
he decree which abolifheel royalty and tf»
ablilhcd republicanism"
For the National Gazette.
Modern explanation ot' a few terms, cpra»
u.only miAinderllood.
A"llfe&eralift~K rtpublican of fe\ en
teen hundred and fcveiuy lix.
Banking —The real art of hocti poctis :
or, the foi cerit sol Simon Magus rev ived.
£ eigetic Govcrttmei.t—A fort of gov
eminent. wliUh many afpifing lads with to
fee realized litre ; a government in which
the few would be evejv thing, & the w hole
people nothing ; in which the press would
oe allow ed to fpt-ak only court language ;
and L.oyd's fate in the 13r.tiIh pillory w ou.d
be the j ortion of tvery man who dared to
ptiblilii his lent litems on political fubjedls.
Fcderatijh —1 he only honcft, diiinter
elf eel nun in this country.
Funding Syjtem—A ialfe spelling—Cor f
rige nino ],ti tn.lo, 1 unrmg iji cm.
Genihs—Momy catehit g.
A great genius— Agre. t money catcher.
Uicat men—Excellent judges of l.oi ie
fiet.i and horse-tricks.
Gaicl—A lort of mixed n.t'tal, imported
some years liuce into the United Mates,
'v. lien put into the furi.ca it i;< co net fain
any thing in w eight. A loss is rather plain
ly perceptible to all, except those who are.
nwei clUel in palming(t upon tile public lor
good Jinjf'■ It may not improperly be ter
med " L)e\il's gold."
iio'.ejl men—Stock-jobbers, scrip-mon
gers, and paper mongers of ajmolt eveiy
description, exclufivciy
jftjuiti —Pi lot-b oat-Men, educated at
Rome, bt- Omers, or Oei.eva-
FatriMjm—i peechilying in C—fs at fx
dollars per elay, atid clearing 01
per annum by fltiglit ot hard.
Printer —A mete machine for public
convenience, o.:e who is Jogive up Hie rights of private as well as of
public opinion, tiie moment he becomes
connected with a press.—also, a jack of
both lides, or " fcratcli me and 1 will
scratch you, Sawney."
Reports — Vague, endless, and contradic
tory things—iiui to be generally relied on,
anTl containing at lealt'as much failhbotl as
truth.
[ To be continued.]
To the EDITOR of the NATIONAL
GAZETTE.
S I R,
THE government of Great-Britain have
offered as a pretext for a war againll
France,the opening of the Scheldt, belong
ing to their allies the Dutch, which the)
guaranteed to them by treaty. To fulfi
their engagements with their alfies, they
are about to expend the treasure and the
blood of the nation ; and that without ha
ving value received or being called upor
for this fulfillment. It is not my intentior
to offer any remarks upon this plea for
going to war; I mean only to contrail this
conduct with the conduct of Ainer cans to
wards their allies the French. At the time
that France admitted us an ally and ac
knowledged our independence,(lie hazardec
a great deal, as we were incapable of af
for ling her much aid, from the then criti
cal and alarming lituation of our affairs
The clouds of misfortune had been gather
ing thick around us, and but one°ray ol
prosperity Ihot through the gloom, the cap
ture of Burgoyne. Unpromising as were
appearances, France not only rendered u:
pecuniary aili.lance, but her armies and hei
fleets were directed to protect us. Thro
their aid the career of a inercilefs few wa
checked—t!iro* their aid our fovereignt)
was eitatiliihed and our liberties fecmed.
In turning my eyes towards the late Revo
lution. to take a palling view of the im
me.ife lervice which we derived from oui
gallic connection, I (hall forbear taking
into view the inhuman tranl'acbons of Bri
tons; the blood of our slaughtered citizens,
hundreds of whom were fuffered to expire
in a land of plenty, without even being al
lowed •• the rrumbs which fell trom the
rich man's table," mingles in my foul Inch
fenfatio is of horror and resentment, that I
with to tl/ from so <lire a picture. Altho'
every American who felt an intereff in the
prosperity of his country, and the welfare
of thole deflined to promote it, inuft fee
an abhorrence for that government which
caused us so many miieries—l mean not tc
avail myfelf of their resentment, b:it ol
their grateful feelings towards a nation,
without whose affiltance we Ihould at pre
sent be groaning under a Britilh yoke.—
The principles of liberty, which the war
riors of France alfilled us to maintain,
ftrtick deep in their minds ; they had nevei
tailed, nay they had never seen the
freedom before, and they longed to mmglt
their draughts with men who drank of fuel:
happiness. This, combined with other
circumltances, communicated the ardour
which has since produced such important
consequences. America may be said to bt
the immediate parent of French liberty,
and yet we are about playing the Itep dame
with her For removiug the greatell and
perhaps the only remaining obilacle to their
freedom, we censure them without mea
sure and condemn them without mercy.
Had George the 3d been in our power du
ring the war, when our minds had beei
heated by the calamities which he had oc
calioncd, would his lite have been fecu. e ?
To use the bathos of Burke, ten thoufind
swords would have leaped from their fcab
b.irds to put an end to the moiiler.—
France has unlheathed the sword of justice.
and with it has smote a criminal who ha<
conspired againll a government which he
had sworn to maintain ; the magnitude oj
the criminal, and not the magnitude of hi:
crimes affeils us, contrary to every fenle
of justice which ought to proportion the
punilhment to the power and importance
of the offender, and the extent of his
crimes, without a view to his wearing a
crown or a cowl. For doing this, for un
dertaking to judge of her own interests, tc
judge her own criminals, and pronouncc
and execute sentence upon them, we turn
from them with indignation and horror.
So far are we from observing the conduct
of even Great-Britain towards her ally,
that we make a war of abuse upon ours,
instead of giving her every support and
countenance in our power. 1 his is so far
from meeting unto her as (lie meeted unto
us, that like the viper in the fable, we
fling the bosom which cherilhed and Cur
tained us. The Duke of Brimfwick's ma
nifedoes are not replete with more hofii
lity than forne of our public prints ; his en
terprizes, if they can be called such, did
not manifeft great> r enmity to republican
ism, than the bittemejs offome characters
among us, who seem to have combined
their cause with despots—Should France
succeed, equality will triumph, and the
head of the serpent of arillocracy and mon
archy will be crufiied forever—fliould (he
inifcarry, (which may Heaven avert !) it
will add new vigour to the efforts of the
noble few of our c ountry, and the death ol
republicanism there, will be the resurrec
tion of inequality in the United States.
April 22, 1793. WARREN.
To the Freemen of Philadelphia.
Fellow-Citizens,
A N opportunity will soon offer itfelf, not
oily to Iheiv our republicanism but to
maiiifeit tile degree of gratitude »e feel for
o:ir t reilch allies, and tile interelt we take
in their conflicts lor the rights of humani
ty— 1 hope lam wrong i.i the observation,
that our attachment to the canfe of France
lias been ebbing ever lince her enemies
hue iiicreal'ed, and her profpedts have be
come mure dark—Perhaps our Ultercourfe
with Great Britain may have jaundiced
our eyes, and her inlu)ioiiscondu(:t,and the
torrent* of calumny poured from her pres
ses, and which seem to be echoed with
malignant plealure, may have given impref
lions by some creatures among us, unfa
vourable to French liberty; howei er this
may be, it by 110 means argues in favour
of our national character, or our princi
ples, to fufter a diminution of our interefl
in the politics of our illuftriousally. The
time is at hand that iliall decide whether
we have merited the exertions which
were in-ide to refine us from tyranny, and
whether we are worthy the blefiings of
freedom—Mr. Genet, a diitinguifhcd
French patriot,and from the re
public is daily expected here from Clmrlef
ton—Our conduit on his arrival will c\ i
de.ice our sentiments of the cause of whicl;
he is an agent —Preparations, I am told,
have been made to welcome liini with the
firing of cannon and other demonltration:
of joy ; but have been prohibited by i
determination of the headi of Join e of out
departments—A Jpeciotts reafoil has beei
given for this, that "theprefent ambafla
dor was not received in this way, and ii
would be making an improper diltinflion.'
A change of circumltances requires a
change of conduit ; but as we are well
acquainted with the principles of some ol
the gentlemen at the head ot our affairs wt
need not be surprized at such a determina
tion; for France is not only waging wai
against the defpotilin of monarchy, bu
agaiiift the dejputijm of arijlocracy, and ii
would appear rather uncommon to fee
men welcoming the anibaflT.idor of repub
licans who are warring againlt their dar
ting aristocracy— But are"the freemen ol
Philadelphia to bs bound by the resolution
it the he ds o departments! Itruttnot —
Shall the oiticers ot our government pre
cribe rules of conduct to freemen i Tin
irbitrary mandates of a PITT are not.
is yet, adapted to the temper of Americans.
Fedow-Citizens, view this conduct well.
»nd you will discover principles lurking ai
bottom at variance with your liberty—li
:h« resolutions of the officers of gover.i
nent are to withhold your grdtuiations,
he fpirii! which animated you in your ion
litt with Great Britain mult have taken
ts flight indeed ; Who is the superior ol
the people? Are we already so dege
lerated as to acknowledge a juperior 111
he United States? To ihew their difap
>robation ot republican principles mull
lave been the motive of the resolution
iiggelied ; but I flatter myfelf there is not
:hat fertility in the citizens of Philadelphia
:o beiafluenced by any such determination,
lor any such apollacy from the genuine
principles of republicaiiifm, as to prevent
hem from manifesting a decided approba
tion of the cntife of mankind, by a proper
ind joyful reception ol Mr. Genet.
A FREEMAN.
April 22, 1:93.
EXTRACTS.
[Fro>« a Southern Paper]
r. There is a certain party in this coun
ty more or less busy in every place in en-
Jeavouring to excite a spirit of national
ympathy and compassion for themelnncho
y fate of the late king ofFraiue&h.s fami
ly, to awaken otir gratitude by a remem
arance of former services, and to place the
lew constitution of France and the an -
:hors of the revolution, in the molt odious
md contemptible view, by ridiculing the
3ne and calumniating the other. To el
ect these purposes, attention to argument,
■ruth and candour, has been disregarded.
\ mangled, disjointed account has. been
leld up toour view,lhewingthe popular pjr
:y in France has alone been guilty ot ex
cefles. While the mild, pure character of
the king has been exhibited to our view in
all the firong colourings, that arr'ent ima
ginations could suggest or fophiflry iilvent;
and Americans are called upon to come
lorward to save the man, (who, if we . re
to believe these fanciful writers,) in the
benevolence of his heart, ftreuhed In
mighty arm across the great Atlantic, and
ileli \ ered us from the chains of tyranny.
2. Many, if not all the popular excefles
in France have been unavoidable, from the
nature of circumltances : and yet no series
of events in hiftorv have been more mali
ciously, malignantly, and fyfiematically
exaggerated than the French commoti
ons. All enraged, numerous, and opulent
body of exiles dispersed over Europe—ha
ving. poflefled themselves of every venal
press, filled the public ear with a detail of
crimes never committed, and their confe
derates in America have echoed back the
fame polluted strains. Many excefles and
miseries have no dcubt been committed, at
which humanity revolts—but such will
ever be the cafe witli all revolutions, which,
!.ke that of France, is Itrictly popular.—
When a general movement of the populai
mind, levels defpotifni with'the ground,
there is revenue to satiate without autho
rity ro cuntruui- Paliio.is by which fucli
effects are produced, are too violent to fub
lide in a moment into fertility and iubmif
iion ; and in the inti-r■'uT w li.cli elapses be
lore .1 cnl;u fuccet els the boifterotis mo
ments c>i a revolution, it 1., in vain to ex
pect, that a people who have ages of op
preifion to avenge, will be pi::icti!i:;i.tij
generous in tile moment of triumph, like
ly discriminative i:i their vengeance, or
cautiously r,:i!el in the mode of ittal ati< n.
3 Popular exttflis have always au
alarming operation on the mind. The
wild jullice of the people has an undifgui
feel horror in it—its fmallei't movements
excite ine i,nation, while the maA'acio
of war, when functioned by king*, are dif
gnifecl by the solemnities which mvelt their,
and minder and rapine, if clothed with
state authority, ftaik abroad with impuni
ty, and we forget that the evils of anarchy
are fliort lived, while those of despot.c go
vernment are ofpermanent duration.— In
dependent of theft? circuinlhi; ces, as they
apply to revolution* i.i general, a candid
and ferions invelligation of the rife and
progress cf the French revolution, will
/hew that to it they are peculiarly applica
ble.
4- The private chaTafter of monarchs it
generally viewed through tile fplencicr oi
a court, but it is not to our purpose lo in
vestigate the private character of the lcinp
of France; it may have been as amiable
as reprefentcd— His public condnttis tht
fnbject of enquiry. We are told cf hi;
extreme moderation, and of certain enn
ceffions in favor of tile people—Admittin j
these afl'ei tions to be itriitiy true, (whiclr
by the way, they are not) it may be re
marked, that moderation is no great vir
tue. when men have affunied evtiy thing.
Ctef.ir, when he had subverted the libertie:
of his country, made fonie voluntary con
cellions in favour of her liberty, as if tc
convince her citizens th.it they owed eve
ry thing to his bounty—it can oniy be to i
li tiered as an aggravation of calamities he
had brough. upon his country.
5- One important truth is either igno
rantly or delignedly overlooked by tile
enemies of the French revolution which i>.
that it was not a revolution againlt Louis i (
but againlt the arbitrary principles ot tlu
government-It has bet-n aflerted til it the
l ite king, voluntarily called the llates-ge
neral, and from the manner in which it i
mentioned, it would appear to have flow
ed from a conviction in the king, that tliej
neceflary for the liberty of the pro
pie. The fact is, that the king, involved
in difficulties from the firmoefs of the Par
liament, and the ten icioufiiefs of tiie No
tables; but above all, from a total derail",?-
ment of fnv-inces, by the advice of Mr.
Neckar, the Hates general were called.—
V\eare now corns to a pctiid w hen ll
will be neceflary to observe the conduci
nf the court and the popular party, wher
we fliall discover that the popular excel'
fes have not been unprovoked.—We (hall
now discover the neceflity of the meaftire;
which were adopted by the popular party ;
for when one party resorts to violence ir
order to ftipport its opinions, the othei
mult resort to the fine mean:—and w'icr
reason isfupported by the sword.the (Irong
eft mult prevail.—No sooner did the 'late
general aflemble, than th"y difcoverec
lentiments of freedom, that the court toe
late endeavoured to fiipprefs, ti:o' it wa:
not without exeition, that it failed. O:
t.ie 20th of June 1789, when the Common:
would have met, they found the Hail
w here their meetings had beforebeen held
filled with armed soldiers, and themlelvc:
expelled by the point of the bayonet.—
1 lie temple of liberty was prephaned bi
the myrmidons of despotism I —On the 2
ot June in the lame year, the memorable
royal felHons was Ik Id. The speech of tht
king on that occasion un/oided his arbitra
ry principles.—Thi; speech instead of con
tainirgany conceflion, i:i favour of liberty
indicated a relapse into a inore le-fry eltf
potifm than had before ma keel his c onehict.
Mean while, legions of foreign mercena
ry troops were drawn from'the dillanl
provinces to crufii this infant ipirit of liber
ty-— Ihe patriots flew to arms ; the event:
and iffiie of the contelt are well know.
The ignominious flight of the enemies <>l
freedom, and the king's acct ptanee i t tht
conflitiition rellored tranquility. T1 e re
putation which the king had fufminc d lor
probity, fecurtd him tiie confidence of the
nation, and as much tranquility existed,
is could beexpectcd after fueli a nighty
evolution. Ihe intrigues of the e"mi
jrants gave serious concern to the friend!
jf freedom, and altho' among them were
nany of the king's nearest relations, he
was loved and unfiifpefted until his flight.
From that moment a gloomy fufpiclon
leized the minds of men—His lincerity
was suspected, and not without cause—
one event followed another, until the
king was fulpended from his fnn£Vion?.
The succeeding tranfaflions are lerent in
the minds of all, the fccne of wonderflii
events has been doled with the condemna
tion and execution of the king. It is im
pnffible to form a just idea of "the motives
which may have influenced a majority ci
the Convention in palling rfiii ft jiilT-jTy fb
vere fentenee, without eiideavour.iig to t
mveftigate a cii cumllaiiie, toe cuufe of
which .-.t this juncture, it ii ni!j.«ii:!iie
akertaiii.—Let us take a l.ricj *icw of
filth causes ab rppcar if not to have oc-
Cat.oned, at !e<-• ii lo have au . e.rauil the
melar.eholv iataftrophc.Th.it die popul r
indignation Humid be ieveiii.il aiv.uu U,e
ktrg, is a ciritimi'.ama nh.ch cam.eit ix
vile our afioi.iu 11.i lit. I tie i.iiiiiu.ti al>:vJ"
antl iliik.fl iniimccn at,ic caianitica whi.i
lie brought upon France, made an in.a.U
---!:on not 10 be effai<•(!. —Ct.nUl the p'opie
lo ' i>: 1 forget ti.ci.rges ci Lja.";;wy, \ er
elun, Liile. and t inotivirje : .out u.e
. avages c f the Aaltria.l am: Kitla..:* i:uuu
er.s.be rememlxrid, .i,;d <;,iifc ot a.I
theieeviU be (orgoftm ? What m»ai;beiS
of obfeure, but not | e (» ur..\.i tmute, j er
fons icil victims ra the narl a o < u.i.il
actions have been pe-riiiittee; to lorrefpoint
« itli didora:; 1.1. t. xtli«:e city, i.pwa:di
ol one million of inhabitants,wi-i e <t-.voieil
to deftrutticn n r the iii-ii.c.: ,;, u
toouepiiiilcgedf...,.iiy'l J am awaieliiac;
there ;;i e those wflo M'.ii t »j !c km,
«as not chargeable \vi:h a < aLmit'iv"
and that he had no h;,ml in ibem. Com
nion sense iauglis at such ntitei ah e !rp''i|
try, a::;i political judgm. ut w ill , it . u ,
jetuiueal prevarii anon mi,l, nleiif l(M .
tempt. I quit U:i- )V:bjtcr of :)n- ' ■
plcafure. for r. v.,.!, v. !?,
pa;n time I dv:i louci'itd them
it i. ••ia aa t eel i-at tVe fcbg Mai
arfwc-rakle no .anhlv t,,i>mi , r»r .
coiic.iiii, ili.it onuiMxttetire a
k>.!c' was cu".!»;)?re;:r r*» .• 01 <i,o ;>-n-;
T-/';- - J !:c ; s , ! ""' ,rn - c -•'v.; -.••>>« rn
»..g oy c:.\jne .i.;:hon;y, n.iginime oan**-
t\l bt-Uwrsfom* ceiuunes a - b--
enlightened period, it will £. 'tVeawd'tf*
tne legendary :a!.« of on e traik br -j-.M
* "k- I av.eit th.it the people have .1
right to rfa out ;• : /hi r own rulers, a;-.d to
c<il!:ier tiiem for wircon,:;. J — by' onliier
i"g. I mean) piiaifhiug . t h, n:-..de of Vnr-
J . ing feeing ten difcretionaiy. ii prtfnma.
bleto be j.-aportiooate to the oneme.—
Now it a greater offence can be commit
ted againlt a nation, or a g.vaur ,/. r'.,y
be brought upon 1, nation, than to int- ( -
dace a i-.uvlet\ holt of nitrivnurier. to can y
.lie aad sword into it, I hope for tile f, ke
morals, and for the fake of humanity
inch crimes witl rem .-ia t:. tii'cov rod < r
at It alt uiipraciict d. Houev,r I ,' n:l ' v
endeavour to jurtify the exielfes of the
popular party in France, I !in.;rcly )a
---n eiit the d.-atli of the iinfo,mnate Loniv;
how far It may be confident w-» ,i R .
licy of France, it i, im ; ,Var'
deierm.ne-i am Co ry. I.ovcvvi, vh»t the
iwenas or tlie icvolArio t '( 't v
•;|ve gone t<»» f« t \ -s hou ?!:- cr-'of
" a- ,•
r , 1 At evcrv in porta!.C
enb. , the fa-.ie obferv.itio,i ; i; , . tx-tmad, .
Wilt 11 toe miiio.iid ,-.i:'-irb'" -i—l »,,,w r!
ties, and (Vised the cha: ci :l,C£ }}''Jy U—
wa, ,he cr.v_ii.cv went too
fjrlor a privileged Older of jnoHii-are no
bles and hi;, 1 : be lefjied clcrg; msn." When
the ki g \wa Inj'per.tfcd iroltf f's fm;. w ii *
oils, the fame thing was repeated ; hut the
events that have foilawed, jultified i>ot ■'>
meafyres—at:dp,-rh;:;>s when our iiitclti
:renve dots not come tlirouidi tlie polluted
channel of British netffptipen, we f n; ,||
iiiul this lalt in ea I tire to havi* been d'-Cratcd
by neceflity, and warranted i y 11:e tye'unc*
ture of eiriumlta'nces."
philadelp H I A.
W EDNESDAY, A PRIL 2<l.
O.; Wednesday la:: tl.e Prcfdcw of'the
United States, retun ed iothi.> ctvi'ionj
his late journey to \ i■
On the "til of Air. I srrivcti ' Cii n lef
t( 11 Bar, the French frigate L'Anil-.uf. rale,
comman*ltil bv ii■ izen Boinpai il. i.;t,i, ■ ti;,.r
;,6 t\\e:ve j'onniiery, and manned with rjj
Teamen. This frigate had a paiii-ge ot;
days Irom Roehfort, and bra;-,;.::; a cor,.
lirmation of the dei lai at mi oi w. r anair.ifc
Englar.d, Holland and Rnfiia bv ti>e Na
tional Cor.vor.l'cn. i n tl.e sft d yi f }'el' .
i tiarv. Si eu as diip ,t, i,<.d l.y the Frnlv
Republic with M. dKN»,T, amba'fui'jr
Iror.i c::cct:riv c iour II of t!n:r r i: on,.
to tlit' President ar.d Congrcofthi U ;i:ed
State 1 !. Fie int our I v land fiom Ch.iriif.
ton far Philadelphia, on :he latii of April.
M. Genet ii Tsiilled fe. erai il ; ioa.ii ;.
ai.ions. n:o ticulariy a bite e inbairv to iln";.'.
The fri^a'e took tv.opr r-s h-.r ni'i
from i i .ate to ;;:o coa.'t e.f Carolir.a. c.ra
an Ellgliiii brig, rleimiuVa. tilt- o.iier
a brig of the fame nation'. <■ .' < It-iri.-lios*
bar : After the frigate K.-l la:aleil :.he am
liaflTador, ii.eproctid tl in a (lav two foi
:i:e 1 remii Vvr(i-li:dit». —"'i'he i"rit'.f ( »
merchants in Charlt ftan (fit)s a jitter finnt
thence*) were ill a terrible co:i:ter.:at:os
while the iV'gate was lying oti ;!:e bar.
All the Frgl'ifti ve&ls*oiit«au» lon ..{
at Rebeliicc road, and Fire rail om Hole,
w ere ordered up to town on her aape. . -
ar.ee. ' r
A detachment of B:'it : fhtrorps,.isfaid to
have been lately laixi.d at the Fcrmuda
idands.; and an additional reinforcement
was locked tor ; an attack fr- tn a Fremfc
fqiiadron on the Uermuda. bci.v fc r'xuily
apprehended.We hear, from Pittfknrgh, that the army
linger Gen. Wayne, was to move from
ttuir winter e -xampmeilt at } cgioi:vil!i
iibont the n.-ll oi May.—Laie letiers from
c\>. t I- rankiin to a per Ton at Pitlfburgh, af
ford fame hopes that, the Six nation* of In
dian* 'd remain'peaceable. About fix
weeks before thcfe letters came to hand,
a party of Indians had (tolen inirtjrdiorfet
ironi a settlement oft Rufl'el's creek, in
Kentuckey. They were, pursued by tile
inhabitants, who overtook them on the
foutii hue of Cumberland tiver, killed one
Indian, and regained the horses. Oil their
return, in the re-:r< Sng Cumberland ri
ver, the la 1 raft was fired on, and two ine:
wounded, bv i number of Indians, whe
hid embodied and pursued them. Tlte In
diaas.folluwed theinto thefeltlement, and
after the inhab tan s retired to their homes,
they again stole 20 of the fame horses.
The Georgia papers a!fo contain fevera
accounts of murders, robberies, and depre
:d itions being committed since February
by parties of the Creek Indians, within the
line run in December lait, agreeably to the
treaty of New-York, in 1790. A (tore ai
Trader's Hi!!, 011 Sr. Mary's river, wa:
robbed on the 1 Ith of March, of goods tc
the value of two thousand pounds (terling.
and the two (tore-keepers killed, by a par
ty of about 20 < reeks - with a number 01
, oilier infuits both in that quarter and alone
the Altamaha ; from all whicn it has beei
queried by the Georgians, whether an;
fairh can be placed in Geu. M'Gillivray, oi
Indian treaties.
Oitheijth inflint, was laid the firfl
Aoue (by the Rev. P.-elident Stiles, with
the irfual formalities) of the new edifice
of Yale College, at New-Haven, in Con
necticut. Af.ef laying the stone the Presi
dent made a suitable address to a verj
crowded audience. It is mentioned ill the
inlcriptiun on the stone that 93 years hac
el jpfed (iaoe laying the foundation of the
old college of Vale-
The reports of the arrival of a Britifi
fleet id the Weft Indies, under Lord Hood,
and of the inhabitants of Martinico and
Guadeloupe having surrendered those
53aid* to Great Britain, appear to be
without foundation. On the sth of April
lul'.i. 'i events had taken place, which is our
tare it date from that ejuarter.
G wernor Moultrie, of South Carolina.
It •iffiied orders to put the harbour of
Charleston in 1 (fate o. defence. Eight
eighteen ponnders were feat down t« fort
Jolinfon, a.id some works were ordered
to be thrown up 011 Shute's Folly, where
several heavy pieces of cannon were to be
pjante.d.
The two EnjliHi brif- taken by the L 1
Fanbufcade, had arrived in Charleston on
or about the 131:1 instant.
On Sunday last a sloop coming from
Maiferr r:o this port,svith 80 hhds of rum
oil board, was by some aftcident (having a
pilot on bo ird) run igiiult tile pierheads
ar mud-island, id funk in live fathom wa
ter. file people hid jult time to save
theuifelves on the piers.
The ship Beaver, Worth, arrived at
Nantucket the 25th of March i»ft, from the
coast of Peru in ihe south seas. During a
cruifeof f- months, We took about 1100
barrets of fpe: in->-eti oil, and two hundred
ot whale oil. OffCallao, the Beaver was
boarded bj' a Spanifii (hip of war, who or
dered him to leave the coast <vr he would
6? subject to seizure. Attempting to land
afterwards at Callao for supplies, Capt.
Worth was ordered away without being
fuffirrcd to purchaf. - themon any condition,
and warn#*) that if he fell in with any Spa
nilli lliip of war he would be captured.
[H->/pitality of Defpots.~\
The Corporation of Albany have pa fled
a l aw, ordering all water-fponts. of w hat
.kind soever, 10 be taken down previous to
la.- iinl 1! iv of M iv cDluing.—One of their
papers congratulates the citizens ejf Alba
ny on the near approach of the riav which
is to relieve tlieu> from fj unueccflary an
incumbrance.
For the information of those who hive
r.or recently examined the treaty of Amity
and Commerce, agreed to at P iris, on Feb.
fc, t";8, it may be proper to re-print th°
article of that treaty, for the purpose
of general information.—"ft fhallbeiaw
ful for the (hips of war or either party, and
privateers, freely to carry whithersoever
they please, thu (hip's and goosts taken from
their enemies, without being obliged t
pay any duty to the officers of the admiral
ty or any other judges : nor flia'l such
prizes be arretted or seized when they
J come to and enter the ports of cither par
ty ; nor (hall the searchers or other officers
of those places search the fame, or make
examination concerning the lawlulnefs of
such prizes ; but they may hoi it fail at any
time, and depart and carry their prizes to
the places exprefled in their commissions.
wliich the commanders of such (hips ot
war (hall be obliged to shew : on the con -
trary, no (belter or refuge (hall be given in
their ports: to such as shall hive made prize
of t ie fubjects,people or property of either
of [he parties; but if ftich lliall come in,
being forced by stress of weather, or the
dangei of thefea, all proper means (hall be
vigorously used, that they go out and retire
(rum thence asfoon as possible."
Party spirit is taid to run very high >,n
some parts ot Now Scotia, particularly in
~>t. Johns, Frederick's Town, &c. " 'i'he
greatelt diffentions prevail between thf de
mocratic and cuuit parties. Governor,
counsellor, and mobs, form one general
crowd. A few days ago, the molt,t.oifte-r
---mis debates arose and increased with fuel
impetuous fury, that nothing could quel
its rage, but swords and piltols, \< hich were
admitted into the court tioufe in St. John's
vVh.it the result will J>e is not known, bti
we believe may ealiiv be conjectured."
Extrnii of a Utter from an American kouJ\
at Cape-Francois, dated March 25.
"On the 22d instant, war with England
Holland, Rtiffia, Germany, I'ruflia and Sar
dinia, was proclaimed here in form ; man;
F.nglilh veliels have been flopped, am
I tear wili be condemned. A large fleei
is expected liere from F ; anre with troop?
In that there will be little danger ot an in
valion ot this island —but. the French trad,
must be deflroyed. Gc.' d freights are al
ready offered to American veflels, and fomi
have begun to load sol America and i
market. Weunderfland that a Commillar;
is gone <10111 France to ijhe go* eminent 0
the United States, in order to procure:
loan that may be fufliciunt to supply tin
f 1 ench Colonies with pfovifions. Some
thing mud be done on your fide more thai
they have yet done, else tliis colony must bi
reduced to a deplorable Hate for wane o
provisions; they already begin to gro\i
icarce."
Several British and Dtitch veftels havi
arrived at the Cape, flnce the declaratior
of war, and were made prizes of.
Exiratt of a letter from' Liverpool dated
February ;2.
" The French have ta'r.en great advan
tage of the Englifli: Pre fiou- to their de
claring war, they had till their fact anc
Weft-Indiamen insured at Lloyd's, ant
100 0001. insured in this city ; so that, i'
their (hips aie taken the loss will be upoi
this nation. I have great reafoii tobeliev<
that the Dutch will not; be dragged inte
the war. It is reported here, that the;
mean to acknowledge the French republic
and remain neuter ; if Co,, the French wil
be able to defend thefulolves againlt al
their enemies. I have a Quantity of (lieei
copper ready to ship ; am preventec
From shipping that and niaijiy other articles
which are prohibited from exportation
viz. nails or rod;, sheet le.fd, iron iniheets
i irs, &c. &c.—Ports for wheat and flo.n
are not opened yet."
The French National Convention, con
fidering that limber of tljie growth of the
United States, proper for the building o!
'hips, is eq'ial to any in the world, have
lately patted a decree, revoking in favom
»f the United States, all 'the l;i\vs which
heretofore have existed in that country,
with regard to the sale of foreign bottom:
within the French ports : so that Americar
built vessels seat-thither for sale, will ir
ill probability, meet with a very gooe
market.
" By our last accounts from England
government there are ob'i ged to keep r
t'ght rein on the people It is now dan.
_,erons to readPainfc'j/. ights of Man, altho
:lie publication of the tirfl volume was a!
Srfl not noticed by government;. —A gen
tleman, we underttaild, tomes paflengei
in the William Penn, who was obliged ti
Sy for avowing in a public coffee-houfe
tli.it he had read the work; and approved 01
its principles.—What cffjctth'is warrinj
cvith pfinctp'es will proc]ure,time must un
told. The Engli.'h gbvernnjtc n;: pp«arsto be
in the greatest dread, left the Frencl
fliould laiuhjo.ooo men on their coast—
the writer adds, that were such a cfrcnin-
Kance to talc place,th.' French would in the
courf- of three days, find their number;
"etc afc : to 600,000. ap the republicar
1 ' is viy numerousasd determined."
hole number qf religious male
drones turned out of cloisters, cells, cathe
dral*, in France, (liot including the
egular clergy) to 122.600 per
011s. The number of fhp-fluggards, nuns,
abbesses, holy fillers, &c, difJi.irged front
their gloomy since the revolu
tion. is 73.000 persons : in the whole,
195/00. —Many of those, it is Paid, are
now become industrious citizens, and ex
hibit in their conduct, that the molt likclj
way to ,p!ea('e God.i; to rentier themfe'ret
ufefnl to man.
It is saul the whole number of EnglitT
seamen flopped in the pprts of Old Franct
by the declaration of war, amounts t(
scoo. These have universally offered theii
services to the French navy, rather thai:
return to their own country and submit tc
the tyranny of press w arrants and prefi
gangs, in and by which the molt natural
rights are lawlessly trantpled under foot.
When the frigate L'Embufcade left
France, the French army had already be
iieged Maeflricht,and Gen Damourier was
on his march to take pcflellion of Amster
dam, where it was expected he would
be joyfuily received by a majority of the
inhabitants.
It is mentioned in letters from Europe,
thata very great part ol' Gen-Dumoufier's
ai my, intended for the incursion into Hol
land, 'Orififts of Dutchmen. It is a vulgar
e ™ lllat the Ariitocratic Dutch, (alias
the Kadtholder party) can lay the whole
country of Lower Holland under water
oy effecting a breach in the dykes. It is 011-
• v here and tlierein a low part of the conn
try that it can be inundated by any body-
-According to late Englifls accounts,
Vnflrs. Fox, Grey, and some other repub
lican characters in the Britilh Houf? ot
Commons, have been ordered to be im
peached. for utteringfentinients"toomuch
in favour of French republicanism, and the
general rights of man."
" The people of Courland in Prussia.
(faysan Engliih paper), have taken aim l
and drove the duke ot Mittau from the ca
pital ; on his retreat they declared them
selves free. Thirty of his guards were
killed in the attempt to defend the palace,
and the deferring sons of libei ty were tri
umphant.—The news of this bold and fuc-
enterprizehas so alarmed our gov
ernment, as to occasion the immediate lup
preffion ofnilmberlefs clubs, that have been
formed throughout Prussia. This ft retch
of authority, it is thought, will rather ani
mate than suppress the discontented.
The general council of war have de
clared to the king, that it will be both im
politic, and dangerous to withdraw the
troops from Berlin, Stetin, Koninglberg,
and Silesia, while tie minds of a large ma
jority of the people are in a state Of revo
lt] tional fermentation."
We are authorized to fay, that the re
port ot Lord Dorchester coming to the
United States as Afnbaflador from the Bri
tilh court, is without foundation.—An ac
count was circulated some timeiiuce, that
that nobleman had been re-appointed to
the government of Canada, and that he
was to land at New-York. on his way to
Quebec : from which, it is fnppdfed, the
above report mult have taken rife.
(Daily Ad.)
'• Many and various (fays a paper of
vcfterday) are the observations and con
jectures, res >efling the part which this
country will take in the present war. It
seems, however, pretty clear, that there is
no treaty now exilling, which binds .i.mc
ricato afliftthe trench, in any cafe what
ever. If this be true, it will undoubtedly
be for the interest of this country,, to ob
serve the ftrittell neutrality, Ifuett : Can
■-ye not, perfectly confident with this prin
:iple. receive into our ports, the prizes of
parties, without partially aiding cr as-
Ifting t ither ?
.Spuie p*r o.is have fuggefteel the 'idea of
i) ivateer b.-in .fittedoi t&owred in Ame
rica. This wou id undoubtedly be produc
tive of the mod dangerous consequences.
It would immediately draw upon us the
vfentment of Great-Britain, andeventu
lly involve the country in a war, which
iotw i til Handing the allertions of some bra -
vados, in the present ungnirded situation
>f our sea coalt, would be attended with
ruinous consequences."
The French appear not to beat war with
the Spaniards. Indeed, the marine o1
France, is the only rational security the
Spaniards can have for the dependence of
~>outh America on them ; and of this truth
they mud be fatisfied by a single moment';
reflection : for a war against the Spaniards
was barely prevented by the interference
of the French National Aflembly but tw c
years ago in favor of Spain, and the de
ligns of the Britilh cabinetagainft that ;jart
id the Spanish dominions, was then a point
of notoriety every where. We can farce
Iv suppose then, how everdifagreeable font
of the late proceedings of the French iftav
Have been to the Spaniards, that they will
violate the firrt principles of national po
licy, by tiding with their natural enemy
igainll their ancient friends. If Spain,
therefore, Ihould not interpose in the quar
rel, and the Dutch are attacked in the vi
tal-. of their power by a direit invalion ol
their country, the Britilh will be very like
!y ! o: to profit much by their absurd ant;
impolitic refentnient, which they have fc
freely expressed against the French, anc
by their hoitile preparations.—For if tlieii
ivlources are compai'ed, the French have
the utmost advantage.—as these last have
in immense territory, which they can dis
pose of to the amount, it is laid, of at leal
ine hundred and thirty millions sterling—
while the Britilh mull depend on taxe:
done to support their operations—the
French have acted withfpirit in anticipat
ing the meditated blow of the Britilh na
tion against them, and thus far profitin;
by their own experience in a limilar situa
tion.—The Britilh king complains indeet
with ill grace 011 tiiis point.—as it is wei
known in the war before last. eight thou -
sand French feameri were captured by the
Britilh, before a declaration had taker
place—And in the last war St. Etiftatius
was takenfrom the Dutch without the leaf!
regard to this national formality.
(Boston Gaz.)
The last will and testament of the king
of France, re-publilhed in this and molt
other American prints, from English and
Porttiguefe papers, is thought by many to
be a forgery of some Spanish or Portu
guefemonk—The story of the execution ot
of the late queen of France seems to be
wholly without foundation.
By a letter from England, from an Ame
rican merchant there, a report is comma
nicated that the Dutch patriots had olier
ed a loan of ten millions fteriing to the re
public of France* the moment their troops
Ihould enter, and takepofleffion of the fc
ven United Provinces, in order to free
them from the tyranny of the Orange, or
Engl i(h fatiioi in Holland.
Immense failures have recently taken
place in the city of London, and public
credit was on the 20th of February, in a
moll perilous and tottering lituation.'*
7 hcfe things are so well known (fays a
London paper.) that public credit cannot
poflibly fuller by the full publication of the
tail." At the above date four great hou-
IVs in London had (topped payment. They
were principally engaged in American and;
\\ eft-India brokerage and insurance con
cerns. O.ie house alone had tailed for
3oo,oool.fteriing, and anotherforsoo,oool.
J lie failures then known were cltimated
it three millions; and, it was computed
•vould extend to two millions more.—
The king of England had ili'ued a pro
lamation making all sailors liable to luffer
leath who should be found fer\ing on
'°ard French vefielsof war. The French
»nny under Gen Chamboran had had an
engagement with the Prussians, before
Vcnlo, about the 16th of February, but
lothing deciftve took place—Maeitricht
continued anobftinate defence—Breda and
Blrgen-op-zoom were both inverted by
the French ; and the furrenderol Sardinia
was believed i.i London to be a facljOn tll§
- 3d. of February.
By the PRESIDENT of the UNITE!}
S 1 ATj-.S of AMERICA.
A proclamation.
WHEREAS it appears that a ft,;te of war
exiils between Auliria, Prnffia, Sard.niaj
Great-Britain, and the United Nether
lands, of the One part, and France on the
other, and the duty and intereU of the Uni
ted States require, that they fl ould with
iincerity and good faich adopt and purfne a
.onduct friendly and impartial toward the
belligerent powers :
I have therefore thought fit by these pre
lents to declare the difpolition of die Uni
ted States to obfervt the conduit aforefaid
towards these powers respectively ; and tu
L ihort r nd warn the citizens of the United
States carefully to avoid all a£ts and pro
ceedings what.oever, which hiay in any
manner tend to contravene filch di;polition.
And I do lre,r.>y also make known that
whosoever of the citizeiu of t/ie United
States (hall render hinilelf liable to punuh
ment or forfeiture under the law of na
tions, by committing, aiding or abetting
Inutilities against any of thefaid powers, or
by carrying to a ,y of them thole articles,
which are deemed contraband by the nio-<
dtfn usage of nations, will not receive the
proteflion of the United States, against
ftich punishment or forfeiture; and fur
ther , that I have given inftruc.ions to those
officers, to whom it belong« to taufc
prosecutions to be inflituted against all per.
foul, who (hall, within the cognizance of
the courts of the United States, violate the
Law of Nations, with refpeft to the pow.
ers at war or any of them.
In Teltimony v hereof I have cahfed the
Seal of the United States of America
to be affixed to these prcfents, and
signed the fame with my hand. Done
at the City of Philadelphia, the twen,
ty second day of April, one thousand
seven hundred and ninety three ami
of the Independence of the United
States of America, the seventeenth
»,/ p rj G ° : WAs HINoiUN.'
By the President
Th : Jefferson.
P , R J C ., E ° F St °CKS.
iiix I'cr Cents r
Three Per Cents W
Defe.red
Bank of the United States g'j-r. c.
JUST PUBLISHED,
A: d to be fold by Thomas Dobm'N Wil
liam > ov.vg, Robert Campbell,
Mclfrs. Rice and Co. and John M-
Culloch, No. 1. North Thiid-flreet,
A N EXAMINATION of the late pro.
* ceedings in Congress refprfting the
official conduct of the Secretary of the
Treasury; with Observations, &c. on the
application of loans from Holl nd, nefoci
ated under the arts of the 4th and 12th of
Augult 1790 —The price of the above
pamphlet is three fifteenth's of a dollar, or
1 -is 4d. 1-2. April 44. 2&w tf
Journeymen Saddlers
WANTED,
By the Society of Matter Saddlers of the cTty
of Philadelphia—-Fifcecn or twenty woik.
men oftheabove proffeflion,willnu*t with constant
employment ano generous waver, by applvjng to
WILLIAM JONES, Secretary 19 ihe locietj, at
No. 3, South llrect,
April 24. tnjlru lint from the provi/tonal exccuti c
council of the French Republic to the go
, I'ei nor and d'n cßor of the French part oj
St Doningo.
WHEN France broke its fetters an!
brought the tyrant's head undet
the sword of jullice, (lie well knew that
furroundiug despots, would tinie their cf
foits againd her, and affilt in the cauft.
of the enemies of equality, but the oath
to use every effort and employ all the in
vincible energy of republican courage, and,
ifneceffary, die, in the defcnce of thofc
principles had univerfallv been taken. —
What was forefeen is now veiified; Rufiia.
England, Holland and perhaps Spain,
armed againll us, intend to try upon tlu
water and in ports at a dillance from tlu
mother republic, whether the soldiers ol
equality will be able every where to fight
and conquer. The empire, the king o
Sardinia, the king of Bohemia and Hun
g ry, the king of Pruflia unite to protctl
and revenge the cause of tyranny, tc
wrest from lis the fruit of our labour an '
jminenfe efforts. The French in the new
world, as well as their European brethren
will teach their enemies, that a resellers
ted people are not iinpun ly to be attack
ed, and that the slaves of despotism mull
fly before the soldiers of equality.
We confide in your patriotism to adop
the wisest and mod prompt mealures. —
Your firll care fhou d be to revisit th<
forts, arsenals, magazines, to examine anc
put in operation all the means of cefenct
■which the colony can oppose to its en.
mics, and to provide the island, before
hand, with all it will require in the courfi
of an obitinate war.
It is of the firll importance to kee[
the intercourse between the United S ate:
and the Colony free, a 6 it has been hitler
to, to dr w thence the precious afliltanci
they afford.
The frigate L'Embufcadc, on board ol
which the new ambassador to the Unitec
States is to embark, is to cruise in tholf
latitudes and then unite under the flag ol
reir admiral Gambis. It is to that (jf
ficer that the provisional executive cotin
cil have, for the present, entrusted the
command of the naval forces, to which
llation they had firft appointed rear ad
miral Morard Degall, who however is nc
longer ceftintd for that command.
Citizen Genet, charge del affaire* from
France to the United States, will attend
to furnifhing St. Domingo with provili
ons ; a talk which the republic cannot
undertake under the present circumllan
ces, which require the exe tionof all hei
resources for her f a and land forces:
the republic however will ufc every effort
to transmit to you, within two months, e
considerable quantity cf provisions of al
kinds, and those articles which a (late oi
war will rendei necessary.
The naval f rces » hich the provifiona
executive council intends for St. Domin
go will be composed of the fl ips Le Ju
piter and L Amtrtque, the frigates L
Slfire la Belionnc, k L'Emlufcade, ihe ten
tier la Prompte, the flute le Marjouin, anci
a few advice-boats.
It will be especially necessary to takf
the fafeft meaiurcs to protcdl the rettirr
to France oft estate Vessels, which rear
admiral Gambit is dite&rd to ftnd to Eu
rope. It would be dangerous to retarc
th failing of any i f these vessels.
The failure of any one to do wh t is
tlire&ed by the executive council, might
niar important projt&s, and the executi
on of plana adopted. The refpeQablt
forccs intended for the station of St Do
mingo should do away eveiy apprehension,
and you may rell assured that every pof
fible additional nava ! assistance will be sent.
See that no merchantmen leave the co
lony without the fafeft precautir ns, with
out your leive and such convoy as will
make them refpefted.
The provilional executive council re
commends to you all local meafurcs which
your prudence or the course of events may
dilate. Inspire the colonies w th the p in
ciples you have fworu to support ; per
fuade tl em, that unlefa they are united,
and faithfully attached to the mother
country their property and fortune are in
secure ; that on her profperi.y theirs de
pends, and that the means of refloring to
the colonies their former splendor, and to
their commerce itsa£livity, is to conquer,
to fti ike terror into the hearts of their in
ternal enemies, the only enemies, we have
row to combat. Let us fliew what
Frenchmen, freed from the chains of del-
potifm, can do. We shall be happy and
vi&oiious as long as wc are united,
t c■ j V Pache
Jan. 14. 1713. S.gned | M okge.
ExtraS of a Idler from a gentleman in Lon
don, to his friend in the United Stales.
" The present is an eventful crilis ; all
Europe is in a ferment, and the great Itrug
gle is, the overthrow or tie eflablifhmenl of
Liberty—On this occaGon, as a man a?
a friend to the happiness of the human
race, I cannot suppress the anxious sensa
tions which incessantly agitate mybofom —
Although an Englifliman by birth, I fttrl
myfelt a citizen ot the world—Oh ! my
friend 1 may the United States of Ame
rica continue to be an afjltim to the op
pressed ! But why (hou'd I give place to
a doubt ? It is fondly hoped by some 011
this fide the water, "hat you are insensibly
verging to a MONARCHICAL confti
tution ; they argue, th it a predilection
for this form of government ft ill exills a
mong you. It is further said, that your
senate is entirely under influence ; and that
the doors of that house are forever (hut a
gainst the people :—With us, even the
house of lords is open to pubhc curiosity.
Far be it from me to derogate any thing
from your worthy repiefentatives : But if
this inquifitoriaJ prerogative should ever
fall into bad hands, they may enter into
treaties, form idliancts, and even fell the
whole country to some powerful nation.
What » ould your btavery avail, when your
confidence had, from time to time,received
fleets and armies, under (ham pretences,
into the bosom of your country, when
your mgazines and llrong holds were in
their power? These are naked hints—
wiser heads than mine may obviate all dif
ficulties. Before this reaches you, I flip
pose you will be appr zed of the appoint
ment of an arr.baflador to your court —Sii
Guy Carleton is the personage spoken of.
Great Britain withes to fafhion you to bet
views ; and, therefore, relaxes her severity,
and fends a public and popular character
among you. But remember the French !
They fought for you—they bled for you,
and they now fuffer, because they have da
ted to imitate your noble example. Surely
no -ran in America will be so much daz
7,led by the cursed lustre of (tars and gar
ters, of toys and trinkets, as to w thhold
his hearty echo o , Long live the gloti
ous Revolution and the Independence oi
France 1"
EXTRACT.
" The Americans are charged with 2
want of gratitude towards their great bene
filßc.r to whom, if we are to credit fomt
men's affeitions, we owe all o ir happiness
and prosperity.— I am not o-e of thof<
who would undervalue the services o
France, by supposing (he was herfclf fuf
ficiently advantaged ; though fiich has al
ways been the language of a certain set
who now fdy the Americans want grati
tude. But I trust we do not want grati
tude to our friends and benefa£lors. In a
deipotic Hate, the monarch is the nation :
the nation is figuratively concentered it
him. It was the French nation who aided
us in our ardent struggle for liberty, auc
to the French nation is our gratitude ow
ing. A nation in the full enjoyment ol
liberty, cannot be indifferent to the drug
gies of another to attain it. Much lei;
then can Americans remain indifferent tc
the efforts of the French nation to obtain
freedom ; independent of that fraternal
concern which free nations feel for each
other, Amerca, by the additional tie of
gratitude, feels for France, and if we had
not 101 l a part of that fpir.'t- which once
animated us, our gratitude would not be
confined to empty profeffions or fellive ex
ultations.—Americans who yet retain the
character of republicans, will join me in
offering up the most fervent prayeis for an
issue of the contell favourable to the cause
of freedom—Nor ought we to reft too
confident from our local situation. 'I he
contell is not a contall of nations, it is a
contell of political prin iplcs ; and fnould
despotism prevail, our situation may be
come critical. The purity and excellet ce
of our government is painful in the fight
of tyrants, because it furniflies an example
of the happiness of equal liberty. Distant
nations may sigh for a participation of the
blcflings of freedom ; and sighs may gene
rate something more exprefiive On the
north we have a nation, of whose enmity
a ten years' peace has made no abatement,
and whose government has many years
back, been aiming at an abridgement o(
the liberty of her citizens. Oil the foMh
we have a nation, the principles ol whose
government arc so truly despotic, that the
found of liberty is not heaid—ln our
own country we have enemies more dan
gerous : Men who are diffatisficd with the
pure (implicit)' of republican government.
Men, whole virtues and t;.l nts cannot ex
alt them above the level of their fellow
citizens. but wilh to have the aid and con
ti ivances-of monarchy. Of such men, my
countrymen, let us beware, ftilpedl thele
satellites of monarchy and aristocracy—
Snfpicion, the so lilt ft trait in private life,
is the most lovely feature of public cha
rafter."
PRICE CURRENT.
Dollars. Cents.
A.HES, pot per ton i2od/r/i2jci
pearl ditto I 34 1 ' >4od
Bacon, Hitches per lb Bto c,c
(houlders do ]
Beef, Bolton per barrel I2d
Country do <)dto i id
Beer, American in bottles
including botitles per doz. id 40c
tlitto per barir'el 4d 67c
Bees wax p=r lb 26c 28c
Brandy, Coniac per gal 90c 100 c
common do 80c to 85c
Butter in kegs per lb 12c 13c
Cheese, Country per lb 8c 13c
Englilh '9 C
Chocolate '8c 20c
Coal per buihel 24c 33c
Codfilli per cut. 3 £ - 53 C
Cofi'ee f>tr lb '8c
Copperas per cwt id 67c
Cordage, American per cwt 7d 67c 8d
Cotton per lb 26c 38c
Flax per lb llc 12c
Flaxfeed pci bufli. 9 oc
Flour fnjierfine per barrel 6d
common 5d 6;c
Bur-midd lings, best 4d 47 c
Meal Indian 3 d 13 C
Rye, do 3 d 13 C
Gin, Holland pel cafe 4 d :oc
——— p._r gallon 80c 90c
Ciinfeng 20C *4<j
Gunpouder. Fine glazed per qr c 4d
Grain, Barley per buihel h1 3c
Belt ll.elled i>er bulbil 2d 67c
Buckwheat per buihel 40c
Indian corn toe
Jersey, do 63c
Oats 35C
Rye 6oc
Wheat id 7c to id 85c
Hams per lb 9 C
Hemp, imported per ton i2od M6d67c
American per lb 4c 5C
Hides, raw per lb 9c 11c
Hops . 2 "-
Ho iey per lb 8t
Indigo, Carolina per lb id id 20c
- , ——— French id see id 53c
Iron, Bar per ton 84c!
Callings per cwt 3d 4d
Nail-rods per ton io6>i 67c
Pig 2 4d
Sheet 173 d 33 c
Irons, fad i 3 33C
Lard hogs. per lb 10c lic
Leather, foal per lb i/ c 20c
Myr'lewax perlb 12c.
Mobiles per gallon 44c 47 c
Milliard, flour, in bot. per doz, id 20c
second quality, per doz. 87c
Nails, 8d led I2d and 20d per lb. 10c
Oil, Linseed per gallon 63c
Olive 87 c
per cafe 2d 50c
Pepper per lb 38c
Pimento '9 C
Pitch per bbl id 73c 2d
Porter per call; jd 33c
London per doz id 60c
Amer. bot. inclu. id 60c
Pork. Burlington, per bbl 13d 33c
Lower county 12(1
——Carolina 9 d
Rice per cwt 3d
Rum, Antingua per gal id
Barbadoes 87 c
Country, N. E. 62c
Jamaica id 12c
Saltpetre per cwt I4 d 33c
Salt, Allum, per bulh 331.
Cadiz 25c
Lilbon 27c
Liverpool 33 c
Snake root perlb 20c 42c
Snuff, per doz. bot. 4d sd (oc
perlb 33c 4<>i
Soap. Brown perlb 6<
White 8,
Starch perlb 7 c
Sugar, Havnnnah, white, perlb 17c 18c
Brown 11c 12 c
Muscovado per cwt 13d 151!
Lump per lb 24c
Loaf, fnlgle refined, 24'.
double ditto 33c
Tallow, refilled, per lb 9c
Tar, New-Jersey 24 gal per bbl 1 d
Carolina, 32 gal 2d
Tea, Hyson per lb 93c id 28c
Souchong SOc93c
Bohea 33« 3<"'
Tobacco, James River, be£b 4d 33c
Inferior ' 3d 33c
Old 4<l 67c
Rappahannock 3d 33c
Coloured Maryland $,:! Sd
D ark 2(1 40c
L-jng-leaf 2(1 401:
«•- EaOern-fhore eel 2d 23c
Carolina, new 2d 71 ;,d
Old 3d 33c
Turpentine per bbl ad 33c
Wine, Madeira, p. P. i?(,d 2j6d
Liibon laodiaG.l
reneiifFs per gal 67c
Sherry 90c to id 20c
TO IH£ PUBLIC.
TX7HEREAS an attachment at the suit of Sam*
uei Imljy and Nathaniel lmlay, execut-'irs
if the tefiament and last will of Peter Juilay, de
eafed, has ifTucd cur of iht Supreme Court of
judicatuie of \he (*ate of New-Jersey, against the.
mds of Garret Voorheis, late of the county «>f
M Jdlrfex, and fiate at>viefaid, leturuable to the
nft Tuesday in September, seventeen hundred
md ninety two. ■ Notice is hereby given to the
aid Gariet Voorheis, that unlets he 'appear and
s;e special bail to the said action, judgment
vill be.nieied again't him, by default, and the
and» so attached lold fur the izt is faction of such
if his creditors as fnaii appear to be juftJy entitled
o any demand thereon, and shall apply fur that
according to the form of ;he ftaiute in
•jch cafe made* and proviJed.
Cy order of the Court,
April 17- law. ty HOWELL, Ck.
I Have c'aims to about two hundred and '
fifty thou/and acres cr LAND in the Kate of
; xCn Tuckey, indifferent p.iits of that country.
Pome of which 1 know to be equal tu any ; ali
>f which 1 am inclined to oiljiolc of, either by
mtire lale, or by admitting i nc, or two pauier*,
;o who"* the agency on u.e whole v«ili be com
mitted.
One fourth of tho con'.radt will be required ia
land, either in cash, merchandise, or such all"; is
is may be converted to adlive use, the refuiue
nay be apportioned in convenient inflalments.
rhe pure hafers to give lecurit), on the lano,
jr otherwa<s,as suits them.
Knowing that there is a prejudice against the
li'les of" land in that rtatc, which is more general
han just, 1 am u riling to ftij ulate in the coiv
:.a£l, i hat a difcouni, or deduction, fliali be
nade, where any laud may be lolt, by realon of a
lefedive title.
Any person inclining to such a purchase, is re
juelted to write to me by post, in answer to
A-honi, more particular information will be H'»en.
HENRY BANKS.
Richmond March 2C, 1753. 2a w tf*
NEW 800 K 5.
ROBERT CAMPBELL.
No, 54, huoth .Second Mjept,
Has received b\ the Ship Oco'l2* R?'c!ay
A large ajfortmeul if BOOKS,
Among which arc,
Viner'd Abridgment oJ Law and Equity, iz
fo\s.
N. tt. Sutfcriftiom are rei c'liseafor the abi-ve
zvork at 4 Dotiars per Vuhme, 4 Volumes i»i Ibe
'eceived every fix menrbi till the work is ccrr pieUii,
wbih rviu tan the courje if eighteen rr.ovtbi,
Crokt's Reports, 4 vols.
L >id Raymond's Repoits, 3 vols.
Vattcl's Law of Nations
Comyn'fc Divert, 6 vols
Guthrie* Gengiaphy, a new edition in 4 tfl.
with elegant coloured maps.
Bo)er% French and Dictionary in 4 4?
S vo.
Hume's History of England, 8 vols—Same
jjok with Smollet** continiwiion, 13 vols, eie
jantly
Mnflieim's EcclefiaOicaJ History ,6 vols.
Gibbon's Roman Hiftory # »2 v Is. or
ilain
Necker on Executive Power, 2 vols.
History of ancient Europe, 2 vols
La\ater <n Ph>f.ognomy abridped
Large Family C>bie w».h elegani cuts.
Chapcail's Chemiflry, 3 vols
Monro's do. 4 vols.
Underwood on Children, 2 vols.
Clarke on the dileafes common in long vov * -
:es, 2 vols.
on Fevers,
Metherb\*s new Medical Di^lonary.
Gardner on the Gout.
P tt's Walks, 3 vols.
Nicholfon's Cnemiftry.
Lee on Botany.
White on the cifeafes of Lying-in Women,
cc. See.
R. C. Will receive bv the arrival of the
i; it veflels from Dublin an.. Ciafg..w, a larg ad
ition to his p'efc-nt futenlive alfort ment of book 3
rnonyrt which will be copies cf a.l the new pub
icationsof merit*-
April 13. ««'• tif.
JUST PUBLISH? 1) —
[Price three f.xlrentbi cf a d'J'ar )
to be lia't li""U H if ot
JOHN M'CULLOCH,
N'». 1, N. 3d Street, and of
THOMAS D O B S O N,
No. 41 South Second Sftx-er,
And 0 f other Book<ell.*»s in this ciry,
An EXAMINATION,
Jf' rhe late in Con:»'e "s thtf
OFFICIAL C 0 /V DV C T
Of the Secterary «r the '1 rrafury,
PRINTED BY
CHILDS and SWAINE,
\T THEIR OFFICE HO. 2<19, HIGN-STRB2T,
NEAR FtFTH-STH!IT,
r K I I, A nflM int,