Numb. 27 of Vol. ll.] WEDNESDAY, January 30, 1793.
DEBATES IN CONGRESS.
On Wednesday the 23d of January feverai
resolutions -tyre moved in the HouJ'e of
Repre/inta'iv?r of the United States,
by Mr. Gilk ; which were agreed to,
and infertel til the minutes of that day''s
procee lings [fee our laft.~\ The follow
ing coitai is the fib-'ian-e of the remarks
made by Mr. Giles, with his calculations
arijing fromtho/g re)olutions.
THESE Refolulions have grown out of
the embarraffinents I have met with,
in attempting to comprehend the report
of the secretary of the treasury made in
pursuance of an order of this house of the
27th of December 1-92, exhibiting sun
dry statements refpefting foreign loans.
These embarraiTnents nave increased in
proportion to the attention which I have
bellowed an the fubjecl ; and a number
of offici i! papers to which I have had re
ference for information, instead of elu
cidating fee n rather to obfcnre the inqui
ry. To obtain necefi'iry information
therefore is the objcft of these resolutions,
and no one can doubt the immediate ap
plicability of this information to a bill now
lying upon your table, for the purpose ot
reimbur ing the loan of : 000.000 of Dol
lars made of the bank of the United States,
by opening a new loan for that Ann abroad
and by changing the application of the
like film already borrowed and appropria
ted to the discharge of the debt to France
from its original destination, to the imme
diate difchar-je of the debt to the bank.
The fir t resolution has arisen from that
part of the pri ntcd report of the secretary
of the treasury which exhibits the termsup
which various loans have been made a
broad, but neither presents the precise au
thorities under which those negotiations
have been made, nor the precise amount
of the sums borrowed for the separate and
diftinft obje&s of the two a£ts mentioned
in the resolution.
/.TOthJTi""his Tr»g
gefted the p ' >pri ty of calling for the in
formation requeued by this resolution.—
The bill now upon your table which has
been before alluded to, contemplates the
whole of the monies borrowed abroad and
now on hand, as being originally appro
priated to the discharge of the French
deb:, and proposes to change the original
destination of these identical monies ; and
the reason assigned for this measure has
been the unsettled state of affairs in
France.
In the printed report, the secretary of
the treasury remarks that the fame monies
are applicable to the finking fund.—lt ap
pears Itrange that after express and dif
tinft appropriations by law, that any mif
underrtanding relative to this object,
should cxiit, and the information called
for may poflibly explain this seeming
contradiction-
The second resolution has arisen from
that part of the printed report marked B.
and which exhibits the payments made to
France, but does not furnifh the names of
theperfons engaged in those negociations,
nor does it present to view the length of
time these persons have been poffelled of
the public monies by dating the dates of
the refpeftive draughts in Holland and ihe
dates of the attual application of the mo
nies to the discharge of the debt, and it
is evident that from the times the loans
are refpettively created, to the times of
the attual application of the monies bor
rowed, the United States are paying the
usual interest upon the debt intended to
be redeemed, and the stipulated interest
upon the iponies borrowed for the re
demption.—This remark is equally appli
cable to the payments of other foreign
debts with the payments of the debt to
France.
The third resolution has arisen from
calculations drawn partly from the last
page of the printed report, and from the
original Bank book of the U. States,from
which it appears that the balances,in bank,
in favour of the United States were as
. follow :
Dolls. Cts.
In Bank ofPhiladelphia 30th)
of May, 1792, and the ( , .
16th of June fame f "7°i959 55
year in Branch Banks \
1792, June 30th in all Banks
in the United States, 555,271 22
Juiy zbth and 31ft in do. 511,423 91
August 25th 30U1 and 31ft
in do. 740,903 87
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhtd Wednesdays an,l Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum
On the lftofjune, a loan was negoci
ated with the bank of the United States
oil the part of the United States for
100,000 dollars at five per cent, per ann
On the rirfl of July another loan was made
upon the fame terms for the like sum.—
Oil the firft of August another loan was
made upon the fame terms for the like
film. It appears- from the lad page of
the printed report that there had been
drawn into America from the r sth of De
cember 1-90 to the 27 th of January 1 ;>O2 ol
the monies oorrowed abroad, the sum ol
2.663,63 1 florins, s 3 stiver?, and 6 deniers.
If this sum were unexpended and lodged
in the bank at the times of making these
loan?, (and Congrefi ha.- e never yet beec
i lformed of any deficiency of revenue) the
United States will of consequence have
paid upon the monies borrow ed from the
bank of the United States from ij to 1;
per cent, per ann, to wit, they will have
paid 5 per rent upon the original debt tc
France, j per cent upon tiie monies bor
rowed for its redemption, excluiive oi
douceurs and other charges, and 5 pc;
cent, upon the fain borrowed of the bank,
which inay be deemed part of thisdepo
lit made in the bar:k by the United State
but even discarding these inferences, i
mull be admitted, that the U. States ar<
paving 5 per cent upon a loan made o:
the bank, when a depolit of a greater fun
than the amount of the loan, has always
been in bank on the part of the U. States.
It is here tobe remarked, that a b ilancc
as cafli is admitted, by the tre.ifurer's re
turn, to have been in his hands jilt De
cember 1-00, amounting to 973.343 dolls.
$3 cents, and in July 30th 1791, the sum oi
582,189 dollars, 54 cents.
I am informed that bills are often dr iwi:
in favour of the bank for monies in the
iands of the revenue officers in difianl
sarts of the United States and that credi:
s entered in the bank book upon the re
:eipt of fnch bills, although the nionie:
may not aflwally be in bank for some tin*
iffer tTre credit is entered, arfd hencfi it i:
nferred, that the bankbook does not con
ilulivcly Ihew the real sum in bank,—not
:o mention thai such bills answer all the
jurpoles of calh and ought therefore to be
:redited upon the receipt of them. It is
:o be remarked that there is a regular
md continual influx of monies into the
sank by. tbe operation of these bills.—lt i:
not very material whether a bill lodged
nbank to day, (hould be paid t» day, pro
vided fomethi "3 like the fame sum should
i>e paid in consequence of a bill lodged in
sank one or t.v ) months ago, and the bill
aftoday tliould be paid one or two months
ience. The following statement will, in
"ome measure, explain this idea by exhi
biting half monthly the balances of public
monies 111 all the banks, about the middle
ind end of each month: beginning witi
May. 1792, and ending with December ol
:he fame year.
Dollars. Cents.
1792 May 340,323 11
ditto 333,116 35
June 776,107 65
ditto 532,272 22
July ■ 441,637 1.3
ditto 521,426 91
August 743,4/0 19
ditto -'40,903 8
Septein. 695,302 23
ditto 367,961 25
October 456,895 52
d'-to 47 3,388 99
Nov. 681,250 9
ditto 811,212 51
15 th Decern. 1,020,824 73
Do. 22 & sth Ja- 7
nuarylalt returns S 790,642 11
The fourth resolution has arisen from
hat part of the printed report which re
narks that the residue of the sum drawh
rom Holland amounting to 1,668,188 dol
ars 27 cents is applicable to the pur chest
■f the public debt. It is know n that the
um of 1,3-4, 656 dollars 40 cents, beina
:he surplus of the revenue up to the end
ni December 1-90, was originally appro
priated to the finking fund, that tile sur
plus of other appropriations have been ap
plied to this fund, and that the interell ol
the debt purchased has also been wholl)
appropriated to its incrcafe : It is alfc
known, that between 11 and 12 hundred
thousand dollars, and no more, of the o
rijjinal appropriation, have been really in
verted in the purchase of the debt; it is
therefore somewhat unaccountable that so
largeafuin as i,66B,ißßdollars should be
drawn from the loans abroad When
the linking fund has always overflowed
from domestic resources, and when the
pre liability of purchasing is extremely lef
fcricd by the rile in the price of papei* am!
Chd limitations of the lalt ast of Congref:
lipid that subject. It would not be decm
d mi o?conomical arrangement to make a
lor,hi of so large a sum of money Upon
fins by no means honourable or advan
and appropriate it to the pur
.fe ot the debt under limitations which
S'.'-ukl forbki Its invefiituie The inior
lu tion called for in this resolution mav
rtfibly exp in tliefe difficulties.
The fifth'ar.<i last resolution has arisen
roin that par: of the printed report (page
sth.) which ftaiesthe whole sums drawn
roin Holland to amount to 2.304,760 doi
u'. 13 cents; but neither immediately
> Merits to view the balance 011 ha.id ;
tor informs where tiiat balance is depofi-
It appears by the bank book, that
:ac whole depolit.of the United States in
iat:k at this time, from ail resources a
itßuntsto 790,642!d011ars 11 cents, hence
t vvill appear from aftatetuent partly con
oflural, and partly founded upon the
dements in the printed report, and
We official documents, that 1,554,851
lollars and 43 Cents remain unaccounted
ir, as will appear from the following ac
ount :
>,litis which ought to be in the treasury—
: Vhole monies drawn from °J>
J- olland as stated in the 2 >3°4> 169
printed report, p. 5. 3
Deduct paid for St. Doming 4 6
go, as ltated in do. j
Leaves a balance 1,859,506
Deduct ro foreign officers if paid 191,316
Leaves a balance of 1,668,190
Idd fur plus of finking fund, ?
conjectural, 5
4'dd surplus of revenue of ? „
i■ 92 reported at 5 2 '"3 3
Whole amount Dollars 3,345,495
bums not taken Into this eflimate :—
irft, any monies net paid of the 191,316,
lue ro foreign officers : Second, so much
noilies in bankasarofe from the revenues;
Third, the receipts of the current year.
Dolls.
"Vomthis aggregate sum of 2,345,495
Dedutt in Bank 790,642
Balance not accounted for 1,554,853
In this lalt ellimate cents have not been
:aken into calculut on, which makes an in-
Lonliderable variation infome of the sums.
Another circumlTance appears fome
ivhat lingular; 111 the printed report
!,956,000 florins are stated to have been
•Irawn from Holland in the year 1792. —
In the bank book it appears from the lift
as bill' drawn, that 8,695,137 florins were
:lrawn for in tile fame time. This differ
ence I presume may admit of explanati
on, probably from the manner of negotia
ting this buiinefs, or from fpme casual mis
take. It deserves however to be ex
plained.
It appears from another fotement made
up to the Ift of ,4pril 1793, that there
ought to beat that time a fufficient sum of
money in the treasury to reimburse the
loanof 2,000,000 to the bank, and to an
swer all the other purposes of govern
ment.
Treasury Dr.
April ift, 1793. Dol. Cts.
Balance of foreign loans 1,668,182 27
Surplus of finking fund conjec
tural 400,000
Bonds payable in Dec. 1792 460,126
Do. Jan. 1 ;93 129,332
Do. February 87,057
Do. March 202,447
Surplus of revenue of 1792 277,305 27
All the revenue of the current
year estimated at 1,000,000
These sums make the sum of 4,224,389 54
Treajury Cr.
Debt to bank, ifpaid 2,000,000
One quarter's interest to April
1793 700,000
Bonds payable in Dec. if applied
to the lalt quarters interest 460,126
One quarter's expences of army
and government estimated at 400,000
3,560,126
Deduct this sum from 4,224.389 54
Balance in favor of the treasury,
ifthe debt to the bank be paid 664,263 54
The papers from which I have collec
ted these statements may be deceptive in
[Total No. 131.3
themselves, or may be fubjeft to explana
tions trom others.—Candor, however, in
duces me to acknowledge, that impressions
resulting from my enquiries into this fub
jeit, have been made upon my mind, by no
means favourable to the arrangements
made by the gentleman at the head of the
treasury department. But I fliall keep
myfelf open to conviction in caCp of any
fuffitient explanation which may be iiere
af'ter given, and I now avow that my ac
knowledgement of mistake thall be at least
comment urate to any conviction produ
ced.
I cannot help remarking, before I fit
down that we have been legislating for
loffie yc-rs without competent official
knowledge of the state of the treasury or
revenues, in the courts, of which time we
hive been engaged in the most important
iitc i arrangements , that wc have author
ized a loan of the bank of the United Stares
for more than 500,000 Dollars, when pro
bably a greater sum of public money was
lepolired in the bank ; that we have paf
!ed a vote thisfeflion authorizing a further
loan for Soo.oco dollars, and that we were
upon the point of authorizinga loan abroad
or 2,occ,cco dollars, without knowing
"he extent or' the authorities at present
lifting for borrowing, the amount of
nonies on hand in consequence of loans
ilready made, or the application of the
nonies which may have been used ; and I
oiiceive it is now time, that this informa
:ioii be officially laid before this house.
The following is copied from the Nor
wich Weekly Rtgifter, of January 22;
being animadverlions on Chief Justice
Burkes' letter (inserted in the National
Gazette of December 15) v herein he
proposes the erection of a monument in
honour of Whaley, Goffe, and Dixwell,
three f king Charles the firft's Judges ■,
and who lie buried in New-Haven,
r\EATH battens with an equal step to
knock at the doors of the cot, and
he palace. Men, less impartial, endea
ror to make destinations, which the ghafr
y hero does not refpeft. Upon this idea,
he liberal Mr. Justice Burke proposes to
redeem from the grave, and consecrate to
111 mortality, the names of Dixwell, Coife
ind Whaley, three great men who have
I'utfered in the cause of public freedom,
ind hazarded personal ruin, in defending
lie rights of man. Whether these men
ire more meritorious than their fifty-fix
itfociates who gave their names to potieri
:y indelibly sealed by fame, in the warrant
:'or the death of their sovereign, I know
not. Whether the victim of their heroic
idjudication, were to be pitied as the mif
juided child of hypocrisy, or delpifed as
:he deluded defender of the precedents of
dominion, unaided by the treachery or fol
ly of his servants, need not be questioned.
By men of affluent eafeand tender fentibi
iity, the luxurious dignity of the throne,
and the grim solemnity of the fcaffold are
contrasted, and the arretted passions, go
hand in hand with the i> derftanding to
imprecate his fortune. By the phiiofo
pher and the political casuist, the united
happiness of polterity, and the right use of
the sacred depofitum of power, are put in
parallel with the momentary pangs of a
devoted malefactor, and they view him a
martyr to tyranny, and a meet facrifice to
public justice. The medium through
which an object is seen, will not fail to
qualify it, though the world and its affairs
may change, and though generations a-.i '■
ages /hould pajs av ay.
The proposal of a monument for the
three judges, does honor to the heat of
theprojeCtor, though it may be perhap; fu
tile and impolitic to effectuate it.
Far be it from me to retard the progres
sive fame of the meritorious, or refufe my
fuhfcribing hand to the certificate of their
greatness. But when justice is done them,
when their faithful portrait is dcpified in
history, whose characters resist devouring
tinie,& theruft of interment, the duty re
turns upon ourselves, and, haying paid the
lalt fad ti ibute, we resume the usual em
ployments of life, and feeknew objects for
our benevolence.
Not to depreciate the merits of those
men, whose memory it ispropofed to per
petuate, let me atk, is there an American
citizen who does not every moment fee
around liim those who with equal diiinter
eltednefs, have undergone equal hazards,
\nnc2.\\(e equally great, and no less despe
rate. And does our gratitude call upon
us to erect a monumental tomb to the me*mory of the former, while the groans of tlie
latter,decrepit!, unpeniioned, and indigent,
are uttered around us. Are those entitled
to all the joys and bliss of a firjt relnrrec
tioti, while the many virtuous soldiers and
citizens, who have .fallen in defence of their
native freedom, are treated as though they
were scarcely worthy of the lajl. Those
three men have long slept in dud and li
lence ; they yet (lumber among the heirs
of those equal rights for which they con
tended, and no less injultice will beinflidtec
011 them, by drawing them in folenin des
pite of their principles from their drear a
boiles than indignity to the military mar
tyrs of our country, by an attempt to dif
tinguilh others, while they are left in ob
fcnrity.
hut it is suggested, that by (landing ir
front of Yale College where Dixwell lies
such a monument would be to the youth f
good lesson, and cottjpicuoiu example, vjfr
The purpose of a monument is to lerve a:
a iilent preceptor, and admonition to attei
ages, from some great personage or event;
since the late donation of our Legifla
itir tothat venerableuniverfity, littleneer
apprehended from a deficiency iu filen,
pre :eptort.
But this example is to bespeak a moral,
and what is it ? " That the fame of great
men, win [uff'r i<i t>ie cntje of public free
dom, is not to perish. utterly." What! ftial
the liberal youth of that academy, line tin
unlettered laity of Rome, need the grof
addreff-s of feniible objects to inform then
of their rights by birth, and the inalienable
freedom of their anceitors, tranfmittec
without mixture ? In the (acred records o;
what family will the difficult birth ot 0111
republic be to remote posterity wnregit
tercd ? In whose nerves wili not the vigoi
remain of making the lad appeal, when s
concurrence of flagrant circumltances (lial
awake the occalion ? In whose bosom wil
not the ardour of liberty enkindle, whei
the abnfe of power, or the infringement o(
the dignity of man (hall trespass upon hi;
spirit ? Iu the bones of ourcitizens are bred
a love of virtuous independence, and ajuil
ly discriminating discernment between the
interelt of the people, and the partiality oi
government, which they will no fuoner
cease to possess, than they will cease to be.
In th°ir breads is a monument more dura
ble than brass, which time lliall neither
eradicate or efface ; and which future ages
and generations (hall defend with a rever
ential ferocity, as the venerable tomb oi
their fathers.
Altho' it is the warm wi(h of every liberal
man, that a proper jealousy relative to go
vernment (hould be kept alive, as the mod
vigilant guardian of our (ecurity ; it would
Hill be a thing greatly to be deprecated , that
a refpeftable part of our community (hould
be offended, or the lead encouragement
given to disloyalty, by a Hep either unusual
or romantic. A conduct like that of the
three men in quedion, though perhaps high
ly laudable in itfelf, is extremely dange
rous, and judicable alone on the narrow
bans of urgent compullion. The mod
powerful and dangerous medicine (hould
be but in few hands, for though necell'ary
and indifpenfible in-extreme cases, quacks
by misapplying them, may evince a fatality
repugnant to their end.
Jf in fine, the proposal of Mr Burke be
rather the hasty fuggedion of his feelings,
than that of ripe deliberation ; if it will
canfe compunction in the heart of the war
worn soldier at the ingratitude of his fel
low citizens-, if it be reflefling on the youth
of our country, by supposing that they
have not a monument in their minds,
whose moral is dill more forcible than
that proposed : if it will impugn that ex
cellent reflection, which has ever beer
made on viewing the scarcely didingnifh
edgrave of [ohnjDixwell, Here amonghv.
brethren, the advocates of equal rights, lie
a man who condemned a king to die, it mud
be thought futile & impolitic, & those whe
promote thepropofal mud,in the opinion ol
ail calm and candid men, be considered a;
facrificing their good sense at the (hrine ol
their feelings, and by attempting to con
fer honor on others, bring disgrace on
themselves.
MF.RCURIUS.
Subdance of Mr. Sedgwick's Speech, ir
the House of Representatives, on Mon
day January 14 ; the memorial of officer:
of several lines of the late army of the
United States, being under conlideration.
in committee of the whole.
Mr. SEDGWICK firft observed, that he
did not rife to express an opinion as to any
vote which he might ultimately give on the
fubje£t now before the committee. It was
undoubtedly an important fubje£t—impor
tant, as it refpeits the chai after of the ap
plicants, and as it involved a confederation
of the services which had been rendered bj
them. Mo man had a more refpectful o
pinion than he entertained of the honorable
patriotism of those brave and meritorious
citizens, who had ventured their lives in de
fence of their country. No man wouk
more regret than himfelf, that those ser
vices should remain unremunerated. Thus
feeling, he should be sorry if the motion ol
thegentleman from New-Jersey should pre
clude a discussion of the various questions
which might otherwise arise in the contem
plation of this fubjeit.
He (aid he knew several gentlemen who
believed that it was impraiticable to grant
the prayer ofthe memorials,without produ
cing evils, so many and lb great, as infill te
iy more than to counterbalance the benefits
intended. That it would be a criminating
reflection on gentlemen who, withfo much
warmth ot declamation, had espoused the
cause of the applicants, to suppose that they
forefaw those evils and were not prepared
to guard against them. It would be indi
rectly charging upon them as the motive of
tlieir conduct, to give an approving coun
tenance to an impracticable object, an in
tention of acquiring popularity at the ex
pence of the reputation of the government.
This was a charge he had ro difpolition to
make; he would therefore suppose the gen
tlemen had digelted fume fchenie, in their
opinion of practicable compeufation ; which,
by what they have said, they have pledged
to bringforward to the conlideration ot the
committee ; but they would be precluded
from doing it, Ihould the mover of the pre
sent queltion, perlilt in having the fate of
the memorials decided on his motion.
He laid that, confident in the hope that
the gentleman would gratify the uilhes of
'lis friends, he wouid take the liberty
jf mentioning some of the embarratlinj
which the committee mult meu
n the progress of this bulinefs."
The whole merit of the present applica
:ion, in his opinion, retted on the fuppoti
rion til at by the terms of the funding law
the government had made a saving to itfelf;
ar, to speak with more precision, to the
tlebtor part of the community. In other
words, that by the terms of the loan an ad
;qnate proviiion was not made for the pub
ic debt. This fuppolinon denied by ma
ny gentlemen, who did not helitate ex
tirefsly to declare, that the proviiion is am
■>ie and ought to be fatisfactory. Others,
le said, went further, and even infinuateil
hat there existed a sympathetic fenlibiJity
between the majority of Congress and the
ittblic creditors, injurious to the great bod)
jf tilt people. Tins saving coilfhtuted thai
•eliduuin of the original contrail which wai
he subject ofthe present demand. If ther
here was no laving there was norefidi um
—no subject of distribution. On this idea
:he application is to the ge'nerofity, not the
ultice of Congress. On this ground the
nemorials. he presumed, were not advo
tated by those gentlemen. Should it how
ever, be demoiiltrated that the eonteiiiplat
d saving had been made to the public, he
liked whether this v as the only defcriptioi:
>f creditors to whom injustice had been
lone ? and would not the fame arguments
.vhich fhoulddemonftrate their rights,prove
equally the title of every other original hol
der to further proviiion ? Was there any
iifcriminating principle by which it would
ippear that tiiefe men alone were entitled
to redrefsfor a violation of justice ? These
jueflions were important, and being obvi
ous, they must have occurred to the gen
tlemen; who, it might reasonably be pre
"umed, had come prepared, if not with fa
isfaitory, at least with plausible answers.
he said, that among the evils which had
ieen endured during our struggle for free
lom and independence, was a lapfeof pub
ic credit, by which there had been appor
tioned a severe tax on the citizens; and
dthough this was not in exa£t proportion,
set it was generally more equal than pro
jably any re-apportionment would make it.
It was said, at leall by some, that by coni
>aring the relative circumstances of the ar
ny belore and since the war, with the com
munity at large, it might be presumed thai
hey had not contributed to this tax beyonc
:heir proportion. If on the whole, the
;laim of the army could not be diftinguifh
;d from that ofthe other original credi
tors, and if justice required the provifioi
tontended for, then it would follow irre
illably, that an account was to be openec
with each original creditor ; that even if :
Jiftin£tion could be discovered which wotilc
luthorife a difference beiween the armj
md every other description of creditors, i
.vas, he said, further allied, by gentleme-i
,vho believe the project to be impi afticable
.vhether it was intended, by a further dif
inction, to separate the officers from tin
bldiers, to provide for the former and nol
for the latter ? If one part of the dilemnn
was chosen it would operate maniftft injus
tice, if the other the government would o
pen those sources of speculation whicl
Teemed to threaten to inundate the conn,
try withenormous evils. He said. gentle
men who were disposed to afford a favora
ble countenance to the present application
had undoubtedly confidereil these effects
and had also considered the means of pre
venting those evils, and candor requirec
that they fiiould be indulged with an op
portunity of exhibiting their system.
He said, that it was further objected tha
the proposed measure would materially al
tor the funding system, a ftri£t adherence t(
which was guaranteed to the public by ai
almost unanimous vote of both Houses.
He said, the objections he had mentionec
were among the molt important of thoft
which had occurred on this fttbjeflt; that ;
difcuflion of them would open an-extenfivt
field of argument. He thought it would b<
of public utility that they Ihould be discus
sed, he therefore againfolicited the gentle
man from Newjerfey, to withdraw his mo
tion, that an opportunity might be afforde<
to gentlemen to bring forward a digested
system.
Further proceedings relative to the fame
memorial, in committee of the whole, on
7 uelday Jan. rj.
The following; motion was made by Mr.
Serry :
" Kefolved, as the opinion of this com
nittee, That provilion bemr.de for such of
icers, non-commjffioned officers and fol
iiers of the late army of the United States,
,vho received certificates for the balances
lue to them on a final settlement of their
efpertive accounts. Provided, that such
irovilion shall not exceed the difference be
ween the nominal amount of tht said cert
ificates, and the real amount ef.imated
it the present rate in the market ; of the
ertificates which are or may be issued for
hose firft mentioned, pursuant to an afl
naking provifionfor the debt of the Unite
itates."
Mr. Clarke moved an amendment, which
ras to infect in the firft clause after the
Aord "for," all perj oils who hane receiv
ed liquidated certificates for Jervices ren
iered or Jitpplies fhrtiijhed Ai ring the latt
unr ; a', d.
On this motion to amend, Mr. Kartle)
nade the following obfer\ ations—
I wiflied that a question upon the prrver
yf the petitioners might be fairly taker
.vitlrout any embarrafTment or conne£lior
•vith another fubjeit.
Let us consider and d'fcufs the claims o)
he officers andfoldiers of the late srmy,aiu
either grant them, or dismiss their petition'
ivith decency.
The gentleman ffcmKcw-Jrrfev yefter
lay came forward with a rcfolution. ex-
Drefling that the prayer of the petitioners
ould not be granted—lf this was confif
ent with his opinion, it was candid—lie
ippeared openly to avow his sentiments—
[ cannot fay quite so much in his favor to
lay for withdrawing his motion.
Indeed, the motu.n presented by the gen
leman from MaffacJiiifetts, comes for war r
11 so queftiouable a shape. that I am at i
ofs to know who are friends or enemieste
:he objefrs of the petitioners.
To adopt the proposed amendment, ]
consider as death to the motion or. the ta
ble—it embraces too much—it contem
plates what the abilities of this country art
not competent to.
I hope it will not be agreed to.
The officers ar.d soldiers attempt to lhew
:!iat there is a diftinftion between their cast
and that of other citizens ; besides wlial
:hey have to hope from the bounty anc
magnanimity of the ration.
It may not be ainifs for me here to men
:ion, that I have never bad a certificate, am
hat I am not personally interested in the
question—l was an officer part of the war.
iut have nothing to ask for here. I confi
ilerthat the officers and soldiers have e
rlaiin of justice as well as equity, beside:
ivhat they might expeQ from the magnani
mity of the nation.
I shall fay but few words on the fuffer
ngs and distress of the army ; they v er<
;reat and unexampled in the hiflory o:
mankind—Those who are now pres ent, anc
were either in the cabinet or field, muf
know the force of my observation. I wii
not detail the scenes of miferv exhibitce
rluring the war.
To support the rights and liberties of the
country, eft'eers and soldiers freely enterec
into the fervice—ln the year 1-76, the offi
cers had half pay ; in the year 1777, the pa;
was nominally increased. but unfortunate!;
depreciation c?roe on, and their aPual com
pensation was less than the year before.
I have a refpefl for a militia-man, till
his cafe cannot be compared in point ol
difficulties and danger to that of the officer
and soldier—the former occafionallv callec!
forth—the latter constantly at the poll oi
danger and duty. There was certainly si:
inequality in their filiations, which ought
to have been compenf::ted for to the soldier
The officer w ho was married, though he
could meet the dangers of the field himfelf.
yet could not view with fortitude the po
verty and misfortune which threatened hi;
family.
Congrefshad made r.o prcvifion to gran'
half pay to the officers (w ho should fen etc
the end of the war) until some time in the
vear 17-? —Several offirers who v ere weli
attached to the cause. owing to their ne
cessities and the circumstances of tl.eir fa
milies, were obliged to rehgn.
The commander in chief saw the evils
which threatened his country and the ar
my ; he slated them to Congress; some
ftrorg promises and appearances w ere ab
folutelv necessary on the part of govern
ment, or the army would not be kept to
gether. These were rrade in the noli so-
Jemn manner. Many officers and soldier:
were retained.
Depreciation still continued—The sol
dier. hungry and forlorn, was obliged tc
take the paper that was offered him by the
government. This was not in general the
cafe with the farmer ; the latter moll com
monly parted with his property volunta
rily.
One kind of paper followed another du
ring the war. Each depreciated ; but still
Congress, by repeated resolutions (in order
to induce the officers and soldiers to re
main at their ports) engaged that they
should be compensated at the end of the
war.
Certificates of different kinds were issu
ed ; and I believe Congress and the w hole
American world, expefled they were tote
paid in specie as soon as there was fufficient
ability in the government. And I Hill think
there is a difference betwween their claims
and those of the other citizens.
At the firft fefiion of Congress under the
present government, the Honfe resolved
that they would support the public credit ;
and strong expreflions were used. This
gave confidence to the public ; certi
ficates were enhanced in value, and many
of them had passed into the hands of Gran
gers, under the faith of government; so
that when the funding bill palled, nothing
could be done without the consent of the
holders.
I wished exceedingly for an opportunity
:o give my aid in favour of the officers and
oldiers uho had served to the end of the
war.
It was a voluntary ast in the holder to
"und his debt at about four per cent, and
t appears there is a confderable saving to
Government out of the earnings of the offi
:er and soldier, and which may fairly anil
lonorably be granted to them.
I mean to reach this. Those who concur
ivith me in sentiment, ought to be against
he amendment now under confderation,
ind afiill to alter the motion so as to em
brace the objects we have in view.
[7c l>e continued.]
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF FFFRFSENTATIVES.
[The vras ;nd n«y on Mr. Mercer's a
mendment to the bill for the further af
"umption of the slate debts, (difctified on
Fhnrfdav last) were as follow—Yeas.'
Vieftrs. Afl?e, Baldwin, Clark, Dayton,
F'irdlcy, Croie. C r'fTn, Cregp. Giles,
Greenup, Heifer. Jacobs. Kitchell. Niles,
Lee. Miicon, Madi "on, Mercer, Miferge,
Moore, Orr, pi<ge. Parker. Steele, Schoon
maker, Treadwell, White. Wil
liamfon, Willi:— 30. Nays: Mefirs./mes,
Banwell. Benfon, Boudinot, B Bourne,
S. Bourne. Fit2fimons, Gerry, Oilman,
Goodliue, Gordon Huger, Hartley. Hill
houfe, Kirtera. Key, Laurence, Lirer
mcre, Lerrrcd, Leonard, IV i:rr;v. Muh
lenberg, Sterrett. W. Smith, Sturges., J.
Smith, 51 n.pter, Svlveffer, Sedgwick,
Tucker, Thatcher, Ward, Wadfworth—
js?>-
The motion made by Mr. W 7 illiamron,
Tee our lafl] was negatived, yeas 29 —
nays 30 (and not, " yeas 19," as was er
roreoufiy inferred in our minutes of that
day's proceedings.)
Friday. Jan. 2j.
A petirion of Julius Kirper was read
and laid on the table ; praying ccmpenfa
tion for.lofles ard services during the war.
The report of a committee was brought
in. allov\ii:g 7 bcmasWifharta lieutenant's
pay during a certain period mentioned—
also, a bili for fettling the da'ms of Jofejh
Henderfon, which was twice reed and
committed for to-morrow.
The house then, in ccmmittee of the
whole, took up the bill for granting fur
ther c< mpt nfntion to certain receivers of
continent;! taxes, who continued in fer
vicc after Dcc. ei. 1782. The ccmmittee
roie ard reported the bill without amend
ment : which the house having taken into
ronfderat on, and the question being put
For engrcfi rg the bill, it palled in the ne
irativc — year. — nays 24 —the bill was
lonfccuer.tly left.
The confderation of the bill was then
refrmed. for authorising a loan in the notes
ur certificates of the individual slates, to
Ihe amount which shall appear due by the
United States, upon a final fettlemeut of
accounts.
Mr. Dayton'; motion, made yesterday,
To pc.flpone the commencement of the
"übfcriptions to the loan,toJan. 15,1794,
ivas further conft'ered.
Mr. Dayton consented to vary his moti
on. which was pending yesterday when the
lou e adjourned, and fix the ift of Janua
ry 1-04, for opening the fubferiptiens ;
which pro if on was intended to give Con
zrefs, at their next feflion, an opportunity
r>f reviewing the settlement of the com
missioners, fl ould it be found necefTary.
The yeas ard nays were called on this a
menclment and were as follows :
Ayes—Mefirs. Ames, Afhe, Baldwin,
Barnwell, Berfon, S. Bourne, B. Bourne,
Dayton, Findley, Giles, Gi4man, Gregg,
Griffin, Grove, Hillhoufe, Jacobs, Kitchel,
Kittera, Learned, Lee. Livermore, Madi
son, Moore, Murray, Page, Parker,
Schoonmaker, Sedgwick, J. Smith, I.
Smith, W. Smith. Sterrett, Sturges.f v.mp
ter, Venable, VI hite, Greenup, Millcdge,
Orr—39. „
Nays— MelTrs. Boudinot, Clarke, Fitz
firnons, Gerry, Coodhue, Hartley, Heifier,
Huger, Laurence, Macon, Muhlenberg,
Niles, Steele, Sylvester, Thatcher, Tred
well, Tucker, Ward, Williamfon, Leon-,
arc—2o.
Mr. Boudinot moved aprovifo, giving a
preference to the state paper iflued for ser
vices Srd fuppl i s during the war, in the
fubferiptions contemplated by the bill.—
This smendir.ei't was agreed to.The question on engrofllng the bill wSi
then put, and the yeas and nays being call
ed upon this question were as.follow :
Ayes—Mefl'rs. Ames, Barnwell, Benfon.
Boudinot, S. Bourne, B. Bourne, Dayton.
Fitzfimons, Gerry, Oilman, Goodhue.
Gordon, Hartley, HiMhoufe, Huger, Kit
tera, Laurence, Learned, Livermore.
Muhlenberg, Sedgwick, W. Smith. Ster
rett, Sturge-'. Sumpter, Sylvester, Thatch
er, Tucker, Wadfworth, Ward, White,
Leonard—3?.
Nays—Messrs. Afhe, Baldwin, Clark,
Findley, Giles, Gregg, Griffin, Grove.
Heifter, Jacobs, Key, Kitchell, Lee, Ma
con, Madison, Mercer, Moore, Murray,
Niles, Page, Parker, Schoonmaker, J.
Smith, I. Smith, Steele, Tredwell, Vena
ble, Williamfoa, Willis, Greenup, Mil
ledge, Orr—32.
The Speaker Old aye, and the bill wa:
ordered to be engrofled.
SATtrr.DAY, Jan. 26.
A letter was read from the Treafkirci" o:
the United States, incloling his last quar
terly account of receipts ami expenditure:
for Oflober, November, and Decembei
v -,;2, as fettled by t!ie treafurv officers.
Several petitions were read and refer
red—alfo. the report of the Secretary 01
the Trcafury, on loft or destroyed proper
ty ; 100 copies of which were ordered ti
be printed.
A bill to authorize a loan in the notes 01
certificates of such slates as on a final set
tlement of accounts shall have a balance
due to them from the United States wa
brought in, engrofled. and read t'le thirc
time. Without tilling np the blanks, how
ever, in the bill, a motion was made foi
the house to adjourn, in consideration th
t he members of the committee on t'ie en
quiry into the canfesof the failure of Gen
St. Clair's expedition were then attendin;
the examination of several witnefTes
whose evidence was of importance, bill
who must neceflarily be difiniiTed if the
committee were required to attend foi
the present purpose : whereupon the quef
tion being put, it was agreed to adjourn t<
Monday.
MovnAY. Jan. SR.
After reading and referring a number o
petitions, n motion was made and carried
that the committee of the whole be dif
charged from the further consideration o
the additional bill, from the Senate, for ef
tablithing the judicial courts—the bill wa
then referred to a feieft committee.
The engrofled bill foralfumingthe balan
<;es of the ftee debts, was then taken int<
consideration - and the blanks filled up. Th(
previous question wasthen calledforbyMr
Page, viz. shall the main question on the bil
benow put ?—This was carried in the affir
mative.—Yeas: Mefl'rs. Ames. Barnwell
Benfon, Boudinot, S. Bourne, B. Bourne
Dayton, Fitzfimons, Gilman, Gerry. Good
hue, Gordon, Hartley, Huger, Hillhoufe
Key, Kittera, Laurence, Livermore, Lear
ned, Leonard, W. Smith. Sterret, Sturges
Sumpter. Sedgwick, Muhlenberg, Silvefler
Thatcher, Tucker, Wadfworth, Ward,&
White, —33. Nays: Mefl'rs. Ash, Baldwin
Clarke, Findley, Gregg, Grove, Greenup
Giles, Griffin. Heifter. Jacobs. Kitchell, Lef
Macon, Madison, Moore, Mercer. Mur
ray, Milledge, Niles, Orr, Page, Parker
Schoonmaker, I. Smith. J. Smith, Steele
Tredwell, Venable, Willis, and William
fon—3l.
The main question was then taken, fhal
the bill pass ?—when it appeared that th<
house was equally divided, (Mr. Key now
voting against the bill) the other votes be
ing the fame—upon which the Speaker gave
his vote in the affirmative. The bill there
fore palled to the Senate for concurrence
Mr. Findley moved for ttfkinn up Mr.
Hartley's late motion forgiving seven year:
half pay to widows and orphani of the offi
cers, who were killed in the United States
service since June, 1784. or who shall be
hereafter killed.—The committee of the
Whole,after (pending some time in consider
ing the fubjedt, rose and reported progress.
PHILADELPHIA.
January 30.
Accounts from France, by way of Bait'-
more fay. that five thousand of the Austrian
general Clairfayt's army had deserted, and
that the general was aflaffinated ; also,
that both Brufll'h and Ollend were in the
ha ids of he French—Sweden had acknow
ledged the republic of France—An insur
rection had broke out at Bruges, in Bra
bant. the popular party againlt the court,
and several lives on both fides were loft—
Eight articles of impeachment were exhi
bited against the late.king of France in the
National Convention on the |2th of No
vember, and from several circumstances it
began to be thought that his sentence
would be capital—The Pope had publicly
announced the Ecclesiastical territory to
be in danger from the approaching French
armies , but declined heading his troops
in person; this charge therefore devolved
on Prince Borghefe, and some others of
the nobility, who were taking measures
for the common defence.
The toast of the day in Boston, is, " Ci
tizen Steele, th? independent investiga
tor of the war department.''
Letters from Europe mention the prince
of Heileto be in a deep decline ; supposed
to be owing to his prel'ent embarraiiing li
tuationin his revenues, not receiving thir
ty pounds a man lor all the Hessian troops
that are killed.
" The federal House of Representatives
(fays a Virginia paper; has not, as yet,
turned the key upon us But if the port
office law is not a prelude to this, it will in
the end have nearly the fame effe£t, and
the people be as much in the dark with re
gard to the proceedings of this body, as
they have been, and are likely to continue,
in those of the Senate. Two of the moll
valuable periodical publications of this
country, (the American Mujeurn and V
niverfal A/ylum) have already been flop
ped in consequence of the oppreiiiTe opera
tion of this law."
Accounts from England mention, that
they begin to flog their soldiers for read
ing Faille's " Rights pi Man." This,
while it gratifies the low revenge of the
court, will notwithstanding be the readied
means to pablilh the book throughout the
military p.irt of the nation.
CorrcJpendents in one or two Eastern
papers seem highly at the idea
of a common hangman being thought a ne
ceflVy officer in the state of Connecticut,
or that there is any perforT there that de
(erves hanging. Such fqneaniilhnefs be
trays inconfiltency, efpccially when we
roniider that those very correjpm dents
have upon many other occasions conftanriv
manifested a lauiahle predilection and the
molt profound respect for exalted charac
ters.
We are informed, that the Electors of
the (tate of Kentucky voted for George
Wafhingt.lo and Tkorpas Jef'erJ'on. as Pre
lident and Yice-Prefident of the United
States.
M. ft Inn chard, the celebrated aero
naut, is about erecting a large building, in
the rear of the lot occupied by Governor
Mifflin, for the purpose of an aerodaticai
Laboratory. Here he proposes to exhibit
the balloon with which he ascended on
the 9th of January, and also another, much
larger, limilar to that with which hecroif
ed the British Channel. Some interesting
pieces of mechanifni will also be kept in
this philofopltical Laboratory. When the
materials are fully prepared, notice will be
given the public, and a second fubfeription
will be opened for a 46th afceufion, which
it is hoped will be filth as not ro dishonour
this great capital, the Athens of America,
and where every species of genius ought to
meet its reward. M. Rlanchard, we nn
derftand, does not mean to ascend, unless
the fubfeription (hall be such as to indem
nity him for th* experice ; the lafl having
fallen conliderably Ihort.
We learn from the Cofion papers, that
the appellation of citizen is univerfaily a
ilopting in that capital, in lieu of " your
excellency." " your honor," or, " your
reverence," by every independent free
man. However pleasing it may be to the
friends of republican finiplicity in the mid
dle and southern slates to fee fncli notifica
tions in their papers, it must be neverthe
less cotifefied that the proportion comes
with rather an ill grace from one or f wo,tht
tenor of whose publications his hitherto
uniformly tended to edablifh anflocratical
[Uftinftioiis in the United btates. In eve
ry quedion an honest man w ill
lake a decided part, and flick by it.—
Whifflers will always fwiiri with the cur
rent offuccejs
Royalty feeros determined to exhibit
"ome tokens of poinpofity in America, as
long as it has an inch of ground remaining.
Iniome late transactions ofthc afTembly ot
Lower Canada, wearetold of the Gover
nor being seated on a throne under a ca
nopy of Jtute, and adorned with other trap
pings that uiuft'appear new, even to that
province—
•' To sigh fjr ribbands, if thou art Jo filly.
Mark how they grace Lord Umbra, or Sir
Billy."
M, Roufftlet, late Editor of Le Courier
Politique de PUntvers, atßofton. has, af
ter publifliing a few numbers, difcontinu
?d his paper, and departed for Gaudaloupe
:o fulfil the duties of apostolic missionary
111 that ifland —Mr. Parker, of this city, has
ilfo discontinued his French paper, enti
:led Courier de /'Arrerique—Mr. Parker
-equeftsusto inform the public that he will
n a few dayspublilh at No. 259, north se
cond ftrcet. The irnpeachrnent cf M. de la
Fayette, with his Defence v a work peculi
arly interesting to American readers.
We hear that John Vining, F.fquire, is
elected Senator for the .State of Delaware,
in the Senate of the United States, in the
place of Richard BafTett, Esq. whose time
expires in March next.
DIED, on Friday !aft, in the 30th year
of his age, Mr. THOMAS LANG, of this
city, one of the printers to the Pennsylva
nia House of Representatives. On the
Sunday afternoon following, his body was
interred in the burial ground of the Free
Quakers, inthiscity. Mr. Lang was a na
tive of Scotland but had resided in this
country for ten ortwelve years pafl ; and
univerfaily fultaiued the character of a
worthy, honelt man.
Extract from The Connect cut Courant, o{
January 21.
" The experiment of elective sovereign
ty has never been fairly tried ; and there
has been no inltance in which the free
choice of a nation has ever been, or could
have been manifefted in the election of its
sovereign, in the European quarter of the
world."—" In tile United States of Ame
rica, we have fairly begun the experiment
of an elelti-je Jonereignty, in the choice of
our Prelident by the free fuffrages of a
whole people. It remains only to be de
termined by experience, whether this form
of government has fufficient energy to per
petuate our national happiness ; or whe
ther on the death of the man, " who unites
all hearts," it can cement the political u
nion of a territory so widely extended, and
a people so numerous, as the future inha
bitants of the United States.!!!"
[Frjjm a CorreJpendent. ]
The friends of Publicity in the menfure;
of government, and Rejponjibility in thofi
who adminiflrer it, will no doubt be weli
pl-nfpd to learn, that the public-fpiritetl
mister of a numerous academy in this cit\
has adopted a plan, which will, in dnefea
um, facilitate the diffulion of political in
form",(ion to every part of the Union. Al
present, the conlHtuentsat a distance have
frequently no other criterion, by which t<
judge ot the couduft of their representa
tives in Conj/efs, than tlie franked ac
counts they rcceive from the re;>refenta
t'ives themselves ; whereas, if their debate:
were fuily and regularly publiflied, theii
conilitueiits, instead of "feeing through i
glajs, darkly," would be able to fee witl
their own eyes, without borrowing politi
cal ielejcopet from men, who have ii
in their power to present them eithei
end of the perfpeitive, as may bell fuii
their own purposes. To five honorable
gentlemen the trouble of thus holding tif
the to the eyes of their conflituents
nothing i 3 wanted but the afliltance of 3
few men capable of taking down theii
speeches, and circulating them through the
medium of the public prints, independent
oi franks: and such men, though 11 o «
ftarce, will soon abound in this city, since
the teacher above-mentioned has alreadj
determined to introduce among his pupils,
Mr. Lloyd's Short-Hand System, publilhet
here a few days ago ; thus rendering hi:
(chool a fruitful nursery of expert ihort
hand writers, who, whenever occaiior
may call for the exertion of their talents
willbe able to gratify their diltant fellow
citizens with genuine and impartial intel
ligence refpeiting every important mea
sure agitated on the federal floor. As it i:
probable that other teachers will fgllow
his example, the confluence will be, that,
in a few years, every ui3n, who can writ<
at all. will/be able to write (hort-hand ;
every argument, that is advanced in Con
gress, v. ill appear in print ; and the citi
zen of New-Hamplhire or Georgia will bt
as well informed of the proceedings of tht
national legislature, as the inhabitant 01
Philadelphia.
ffrom another Correfpan dent. ]
Itappears from some late publications,
that a new order of citizens has been crea
ted in the United States, conlilting only oi
the officers of the federal government.—
The privileges ofthisorder, it is Paid, con
lilt in fharmg. exclulivelv, in the profits oi
the 25,000 dollars a year allowed for tht
Prelident's table, and in the honor of ga
zing upon him once a week at his levees-
It remains only to give this new order z
name, and allignita proper coat of arm;
and insignia; I ftjall therefore propose thai
it be called the mojl noble order of the
gooje, and that it have aflttmptive arms, in
the dexter fide of the escutcheon of which
lha',l be a knife and fork, or, the genius oi
America couchanton thelinifterbafe fable,
the crelt a feather, argent —A ribbon with
a rattle suspended to it, to be worn round
thewiift inltead of the (houlder, in imita
tion ot achild's JaJh, and that the order oi
the motto be, "pleafsdwith a rattle ann
tickled with a Jlraw.
Thoughts on sbverai subjects.
\_From a Corr;fponder.t. J
r. Honorary titles, by promoting idea;
offervile diltinction of rank in society, have
always been the fore-runners ofhereditarj
titles. Thole who have been uniformlj
labouring, in this country, for several yean
part, to introduce the former, would hard
ly hare the elfrontery to deny, if hart
pulhed. that the latter are their real objeit,
Openly and boldly to propose the adoptio;
of hereditary diltinctions in the Unitec
States would thow a man to be a bad po
liticim. and would at leaf! prove that h(
had not balanced matters properly in hi:
own pericranium before he proposed fuel
monstrous doctrines to his countrymen
a cov.rt method was therefore netefiary t<
be taken, and certain checks to be impofee
uponthe great leading notion, that contem
plates an hereditary American nobil.ty, ir
order that it might be attended with th<
willicd-forfuccefi. These ideas have beer
suggested to me by reading a coctinuatior
of pipers in the Connecticut Courant, enti
tied An American, a title that for fonif
time part feemsto have been appropriatec
to several scurrilous and ill-judged produc
tions, tending to abnfethe republican cfia
rafter of this country, vilify its best friends,
and introduce doctrines that would be but
oarely tolerated in Russia or Germany, and
which in 1775 would have certainly incur
red a vestment of tar and feathers here.
3» There is nothing more unaccounta
ble than that any nation at this enlighten
?d period fliould faffer characters to fill im
portant offices, whose principles are avow
edly hostile to those under the acknowledg
ment of which they were placed in stations
trust anci rtfpcctsbility. In Ordin?*
y of life no man confides his poul
:ry houle to the charge of a fox, his flower
3r kitchen garden to a swine, or flitters his
rife or daughters to be under the direftiort
>f rakes and debauchees; and yet how of
en do we fee a people entruftirg to pro
efied encmie3, or doubtful friends, the
I earefi: political interelts of themselves and
:heir poderity !
3. Several writers in one of the Con
ledicut papers (printed at Hartford) or
me wi iter under a variety of fignatures
lave from time to time publiflied fenti-
T!en " so profefledly hostile to the republi
an principles of our government, that not
i few have been led to suppose a design has
seen 1 mmed by a certain party to infln
■nce the good people of that state entirely
II favor of, at leaif,.eleftive monarchy as
>aving the way for hereditary. Every ho
le!; republican fliould keep an eye of ftrift
.vatchfulnefs upon those mischievous ebul
ltions of rancorous hearts and (hallow
leads, and makeufe of every honest means
,0 '"'P'-efs the public mind with horror and
letetlation of fuchdo&rines. But the dirt
1"f co '>™ out - and if the principles of high
icderalifm and old toryism have a tenden
ry to the lame objett. let them alike, in
..ue time, meet with the jnflly meriteci
contempt, disappointment, and disgrace.
4. Some there are who fueer at the
octrine of human equality, as a condition
?, r . : ' vilionary and not attainable in
;his life. That high blooded noble!, who
were born to titles and estates in Europe,
Ihould be tenacious of such opinions is by
no means strange, considering the force of
education concurring with a natural pre
judice in favor of rank and family ; but
reprizing mdeed is it, that fucli prepofte
-ous notions Ihonld be imbibed, advocated
ind propagated by new men among us the
creation of vefterday, who Jo unjeajmably
; Jt themselves up as " the better fort," and
ilecry every idea of equality, not confider
*or en ds belt known to>
herfelf, will forever fix a diftinftion be
tween man and man, in a variety of parti
culars, and that governments fliould insti
tute a political equality to counteract in
Tome degree, the seeming partiality of na
ture, and 1 = just to all alike.
5. The sycophants and tools of g eo
veriiment can have no idea that any man
acts in anyinftance from pure and diiinter
efted motives. Hence when they find their
favourite schemes detested and exposed,
unci that matters cannot be carried on fa
fmonthly as they imagined, ttfe opposition is
imputed lo the baleff principles and every
calumny invented that can blacken and de
fame. Salary is the great object of such
characters, altho' at the fame time confci
°us that the meanest salary is beyond their
defeits, and that the public money would
be wholly thrown away in employing them.
I he man who has only abilities to ring the
bell, or chime Godjave the king, ought not
111 reason to afliime the rector's pulpit, nor
should he who is only competent to the du
ties of a parish clerk, aspire after th- mi
tre of a right reverend. Flattery may,
indeed, do something, and elevate a man a
few inches above his natural level, but in
:he end (he rarely fails of leaving him
where (lie found him.
We hear fromSouth-Carolina, that a bill
ias palled their legislature, prohibiting the
importation of (laves from Africa, the Welt
Indies, and elfewhere,for the further term
of two years.—ln the Senate, the bill was
only carried by the Speaker's carting vote.
On the j;d instant a fre(h filmon was
exhibited in New-York market forfale.
Thus, if the Philadelphians have been gra
tified with their January (had, the New-
Yorkers have also had their January sal
mon.—They were, beyond all doubt a
couple of odd fijh.
A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
ALL pprfnns a ' e forewarned how they take
an alignment upon a bond of £. m ; »o
(bearing dat-e January 16, jynz, given by MOR-
DliC AI and NATHAN HUIjT, of the township
ol Horlham, county of Monrgorri?r\'j and State of
Pcnnfylvania, unto J/aiab Quinby of the town
ship of Amwell, county of Hunterdon, State of
New-Jersey 5 as the sum fpecificd within fa*d
bond has been lawfully tendered to the said Isai
ah Quinby on the day it became due ; but he
having refufed to comply with certain ftipulati
on-i agreed to before incontestable evidence?, pre
vious to his deceiving said bond, we arc now de
termined coconteft the fame.
MORDECAI HOLT.
NATHAN HOLT.
P. S. Said bond was obtained by illegal means
and may probably be cojitefted for reafona not
here referred to.
Horfham Township, January 28 1793#
3t.l.aw,CONGRESS.
Thursday, January 3.
Continuation of the Debate on reducing
the present Army Eftablifkment.
MR. MOORE f.iitJ, therefolntion as
r.ovv worded, contemplates the re
duction of the army to two regiments.
No icafons have been introduced for this
measure, which were not brought forward
in the firft dfcuflion of the fubjeft. He
thought tl at the reasons for continuing
the army, existed with additional force
He observed, that granting abuses had ta
ken place, it was no good rcafon for re
pealing a law. If abuses do exist, which
he by no means thought to be faf, this
was not the way to corredt those abuses.
But he infilled, that the mode proposed as
a fubditute for carrying on the war, was
the way to encreafe those abuses—the op
portunities would be encreafed—and the
means greatly diir.inifhed, by reason of the
distance, of detecting and preventing them.
He enlarged on this idea ; and then en
tered into a confideratiou of the quedion
whether the militia or the regular troops
were the molt eligible to be employed in
an Indian war? He dated the difficulties
and expences arising from the militia sys
tem—it would be much greater than it has
ever yet been. Adverting to the fydem
adopted by Congress, he observed that
two objects appeared to have been in view
2t that time—those objects exilt at the
present moirent ; they have reference to
two species of defenfive, and an
incuriive. He said if no other than a mi
litia was contemplated, the Indians would
never make a permanent peace. The in
curfions of the militia, and the burning of
their towns, vvi'l never bring the Indians
to terms —permanent posts must be estab
lished ; a refpeftable force must be fixed
in their neighbourhood. He alluded to
the treaties which had already been made
—the repeated violation of those treaties.
Fear only can keep the savages within any
bounds. Nothing else can effeit a lading
peace. A permanent regular force is
then the necefiarv result—the experience
of the French, Spaniards and English,
fufiiciently enforce the propriety and ne
cefiity cf regular troops. Here he enter
ed into a consideration Gf the difference
between such regular troops as he contem
plated, and those to which gentlemen ap
peared to be opposed. Added to the ad
vantages of discipline, the regular troops
may be trained to fight the Indians in
their own way, to greater purpose than a
ny militia ever can. On the whole, he
was clearly of opinion that the present
was not the time to reduce the military
force of the country —and should there
fore vote againlt the motion.
Mr. Williamfon so far supported the
motion, as to fugged the reducing
the number of officers on the regular e
stablishment, to the number of mtn in ac
tual service, and to flop recruiting after
the month of March.
Mr. Madison said the present difcuflion
involved a revival of the question agitated
the last session, whether the militia or re
gular troops were to be preferred in car
rying on the Indian war ? It is said that
this is not the time to reduce the military
force of the country—that the President
is inverted with the power of reducing the
army—that while important negociations
are pending, it will be attended with in
auspicious eflefts to lefTen the impressions
of our power on the minds of the Indi
ans. These considerations, he acknow
ledged to be weighty—but if the force of
the country can be continued on as re
fpeftable a footing as at present, and at
the fame time the expence greatly dimi*
nifhed, the government would be inexcusa
ble not to do it. It is supposed that this
may be done in perfect consistency with
impressing the enemy with the fulled im
preflion of our power. He fugeefted
therefore the eligibility of compleating
the effeflive force by the addition of vo
luuteer militia—to organize compleatly
the regular troops already raised—and to
reftrift them to the number that they al
ready consist of. To reduce this idea to
effect, he suggested to the gentleman
from North Carolina a modification ofhis
motion, by an amendment in conformity
to these ideas. |
Mr. Steele said he was perfectly in
sentiment with the gentleman, in regard
to the propriety of inserting an amend
mcnt to the motion, which might feeure a
fuflicient appropriation to carry on offen
five operations against the hcflile Indians,
by the militia of the frontiers ; and if an
alteration was proposed to that tffeft, he
would second it. The attention of the
house to this queftibn speaks its impor
tance ; it is probable, one more impor
tant will not occur during the present
session. On its decision are suspended the
hopes and fears of the people ofthiscoun
try, their hopes of a speedy and honora
ble peace, and their fears of a (landing
army, with its usual retinue of political
evils.
The present is regarded as an interfiling
epoch in the affairs of the United States ;
( and it has been perceived, with serious re
gret, that while our national character is
forming (he hoped it was not yet formed)
it ft ems to partake in foroe refpefts more
of the unnatural spirit of monarchy, than
of the mild and conciliatory temper of a
tepublic. The principle of keeping up
(landing armies, though highly obnoxious
to the great body of the people, has not
been equally so to the government ; they
have been maintained and encreafed with
oiitt affoiding protection, or even defence
to the frontiers : the supplies necefiary to
support the eltablifhment, begins to disco
ver an alarming derangement of the pub
lic finances, and it is now incumbent on
the House of Rcprefentatives to check
this growing mifchief.
Mr. S eele then adverted to the effects
of Handing armies on the morals and poli
tical sentiments of the people, wherever
tliev had been employed ; of the expen
fivenefs of all such cftablifiiments, and of
the wicked purposes to which they had
been, and might be subservient. He said,
he had prepared himfelf to have spoken
largely to this point, and ts> have quoted
the pernicious effedts of such a polioy in
other nations ; but the debate having been
already lengthy, and the committee pro
bably fatigued, it would be fufneient for
his present purpose for the members to
make their own reflections, and to mark
the rapid progression of the army from
178910 1792, both in numbers and ex
pences- Inftanres from foreign fti(l ory
are fuperfluous, when our own afford, such
ample teflimony. The eftablilhment be
gan with one regiment, it is now five ; the
House was called on in 1789 to appropriate
a little more than 100,000 dollars for that
department, in the present year above one
million is demanded. The reason of thii
extraordinary additional expenditure, this
unexpe&ed encreafe of the army, if not
enveloped in dark ness, has been founded on
policy hitherto not fatisfa&orily explain
ed- He said, however lightly he was dis
posed to touch this part of the fubjeft, he
could not avoid reminding the committee
of the memorable sentiments of 1776, in
regard to Handing armie» ; of the univer
falabhorrence of the Americans to them
at that time ; and to illuflrate it more
clearly, he read the expressions of some
of the Hates in theii Bill of Rights. These
were the sentiments of the whigs of 1 776,
and to such whigs he wished to appeal on
this occasion.
He also reminded the committee of the
recent debates of 1788, of the amend
ments proposed in several state conven
tions, of the unanimity which prevailed
among all ranks of people on this parti
cular point; and it is now to be lamented,
said he, that while the ink which recorded
these objections to the constitution is yet
drying, the evil then predidted has taken
place.
If there is a fubjedf on which much de
liberation is unneceflary, in order to for
ming a right opinion, it would be in re
gard to military eftablifhraents; the feel
ings of a free people revolt at their conti
nuance ; and every man who reads, or
thinks, can point out their dangers.
He said, he felt more anxiety for the
late of this motion, than commonly marks
his conduct, because this is the last fefiion
that will ever afford him an opportunity to
trouble the House with his fentimtnts on
this or any other fubjeft. The motion
was brought forward to discharge a duty
which he owed to his constituents, to fatis
fy his own conscience, and to afford that
prote&ion to the frontiers which they de
served, and to save the public montv. If
art uncommon degree of zeal was disco
vered in supporting the motion, it ought
to be attributed to these, and no other
motives.
[To be continued.']
PRICE CURRENT.
a Bollars. Cent!.
rYSHES, pot per ton 9od to iood
pearl ditto itfft to u^od
Bacon, flitches per lb 8c
shoulders do 7c
Beef, Boston per barrel 7d to 8d
Country do Mtoyd
Beer, American in bottles
including bottles per doz. id Boc
ditto per barrel 5d 33c
Bees wax per lb 26c 28c
Brandy, Coniac per gal 83c 93c
common do 75c 82c
Butter in kegs per lb 12c 13c
Cheese, Country per lb 8c 10c
Engliih 19c
Chocolate 18c 20c
Coal. per bushel 20c 22c
Codfifh per cwt 3d joc
Coffee per lb 16c 17c
Copperas per cwt id 67c
Cordage, American per cwt 7d 67c 8d
Cotton per lb 26c 35c
Flax per lb 13c
F iaxfeed per bush 90c id 10c
Flour, Superfine per barrel 5d 67c
Common 5d 12c
Bnr-midlings, belt 4d 50c
Meal Indian 3d 10c
Rye, do 3d 33c
Gin, Holland per cafe 4d 33c
per gallon 80c 87X
Ginseng, 20c 24c
Gunpowder, Fine glazed per q c 4d
Grain, Barley perbufhel id id 3c
Best (helled per lb 3c
Buckwheat per bushel 40c
Indian corn 53c
Jersey, do 57t
Oats 35c
Rye 60c
Wheat id 9c
Hams per lb 10c 11c
Hemp, imported per ton i2od 146 d 67c
American per lb 4c 5c
Hides, raw per lb 9c 11c
Hops 27c
Honey per lb 4c
Indigo, Carolina per lb id id 20c
French id 20c id 53c
Iron, Bar per ton 91 d
Cartings per cwt 3d 47c
Nail-rods per ton nod 11 id
Pig 24d 2fcd67c
Sheet 173 d 33c
Irons, fad 133 33c
Lard, hogs per lb 10c 11c
Leather, foal per lb 14c 17c 20c
Myrtle wax per lb 12c
Molafles per gallon 53c 37c
Mustard, flower, in bot. per doz id 20c
second quality, per doz 87c
Nails, 8d lod i2d and 2od per lb 10c
Oil, Linseed per gallon bic
Olive 8-c
per cafe 2d joc
Pepper per lb 38c
Pimento 18c 19c
Pitch per bbl id 73c 2d
Porter per calk jd 33c
London per doz id 60c
Amer. bot. inclu. id 4c id 60c
Pork, Burlington, per bbl iod 67c 11a
Lower county ' icd
Carolina 9d
Rice per cwt 2d 88c
Rum, Antigua per gal id
Barbadoes 87c
Country, N.E. 6§c 67c
Jamaica id 7c
Saltpetre per cwt i4d 33c
Salt, Allum, per bush 44c
Cadiz " 35c
Lisbon 37c
Liverpool 47c
Snake root per lb 20c 42 c
Snuff, per doz. bottles 4d jd 60c
per lb 33c 40c
:>oap, Brown per xb 6c
White 8c
Starch per lb 7c
Sugar, Havannah, white, per lb i-c ißt
Brown uc 12c
Muscovado pevewt 13d isd
Lump per lb 24c
Loaf, single refined, 25c
double ditto, 36c
Tallow, refined, per lb m-
Tar, New Jersey 24 gal per bbl id
Carolina, 32 gal" id 33c id 67c
Tea, Hyson per lb 93c id 28c
Souchong s oc 93c
Bohea 33 . c s6c
Tobacco, Jamesßiver, best 3d ~6oc 73c
Inferior 3d 33c
Old 4d 67c
Rappahannock 3d 33c
Coloured Maryland sc! 33c 8d
Dark 2d 40c
Long-leaf 2d 40c
Eastern-shore 'd 2d 23c
Carolina, new 2d 7c 3d
Old 3d 33c
Turpentine per bbl d 67c 2 d
Wine, Madeira, p. P. i76d 200d'a26d 67c
Lisbon 133 d 33c
Teneriffe per gal 67
Sherry id 10c.
A FEW COPIES OF THE
TRANSACTIONS
Of the Society injiituted in the State of
New-York, for the promotion of
AGRICULTURE, ARTS, and MANU
FACTURES,
May be had at this Office.
[Price half a dollar.J
Jan. 5.
WATCHES.
ROBERT LESLIE,
CLOCK and WATCH MAKER, No. 167,
Market-street.
AFTER returning his sincere thanks to his
friends, and the public in general, for the
great encouragement he has experienced since the
commencement of his business in this city, takes
this opportunity of informing them that, in con
sequence of his intention of going to London in A
pril next, he is felling off, at very reduced prices,
his stock in trade, confiding of a very large and
general afiortment of enamelled and plain gold,
gilt and fjlver, capt, and capt and jewelled
WARRANTED WATCHES,
Mod: of which are of the latest importation and
newest fafliion,—Alfo a variety of the highest <i
Bilhed cut steel, and gilt, ladies and gentlemen-
Watch Chains, Seals, Keys, and Trinkets, tog's
ther with a few Gold Chains, Keys and Seals, e-
Fhilad. Jan. 16, 1793. ef.tf.
CHARLES BITTERS,
No 120, South Market, near Fourth-Jlreet,
Has received from New-York, ami ma
nufactured by Lot Merkel,
A large and general afiortment of
Muffs and Tippets, Trimmings
and Edgings,
Great Coats, Caps, Mitts and Gloves lined
with Fur, which he will fell,
W'aolefale and Retail,
ac the lowest prices.
Nov. 24- 2aw
SIX-PENCE REWARD ~~
RUN AWAY from the subscriber, living in I
Southampton townfliip, Bucks County, on I
tb* fifth of January, a servant lad named THO
MAS SMITH, had on a striped cloth coat, old
felt hst, and woolen trowfers, whofoevcr shall
apprehend the said !ad, and bring hrm home to
"his mailer, /hail have the above reward, but ro
charges paid. JOSHUA WOOD.
Jan. 22.
JuJi Pitblijhed,
By H. P. RiCE, No. 50, Market-Street,
THE SYSTEM OF
c y/tori- tftsLind,
Uf<"d bv Mr. Llovd, in taking down the
DEBATES'of CONGRESS.
*** RE PRE SEN T ATION having been made,
that the fhortnels of the period, limited for the
fubfciiption, hr.s deprived many gentlemen at a
dirtance, of an opportunity of fending in their
names :—The Editor, in order to accommodate
them, and to .-crtder this publication more ex
tensively ufeful, has determined not to raise the
price to a dollar and an half (as intended) before
the rifteenth of March j—making however a dis
crimination, in favor of the a&ual fubferibers,
by printing their copies onfupeijine royal writing
paper. A few remaining copies of this kind will
be delivered to the eariieft of the non-fubferibing
purchasers, at the fame price as those on the com
mon printing paper, viz. one dollar, in maibled
covers ; neatly bound, a French crown,
Jan. 25. 4t.
Terres a Vendre
Dans un pais bien peuple>—
S AVOIR, foixantecinq mille, trois cens, foixc,
ante et quatorze Acres, en une few\e piec*
dans ie canton 1 e mieux peuple de j «• Caroline M -
ridio;-,a e, le Difhidt de Ninety , Si x , Ces terres
font fituces dans une contrce agreable, et falubre*
oil les fievres font inconnuesj a environ vingt lieues
fle Colombie, la Capitale, et contigues ala villa
de Camb/idge, «u il y a College, et Cour fuperi
bure. A environ douze lieues, iI y a bonne nave
gation jet il eft tres probable, que dans quelqui
rems on rendra navigable le Giand Salude, riviere
qui arrofe les terres raemes. Elles font agreable~
ment diverfifiees de coteaux et vallons charmana
propres a la culture du tabac, du coton, du ma Vs.
et du petit grain ; et dont une proportion confioer
abl'e'le peut aifement convertir en prairies fei ti s,
ilneeft peut-etre gueres possible de rencontrerune
pareille piece de trrre a vendre dans aucun autre
des Etats Unis 5 et pour les conditions de l'ach at
on les rendra tres commodes.
S'informer a rimpriraerie d e la Gazette Na
tion a/e. Sept. 5®
LANDS for SALE,
IN a well fettled Country. SIXTY-FIVE
I THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY-FOt'R ACRES OF LAND, in one
body, in die njoft populous part of the state of
South-Carolina, in the diftrift of Ninety-fix- —It
is situated in a line healthy cUmat»,free from fever
& ague,about tixty miles from Columbia, the feat
of government. The land is contiguous to the
town of Cambridge, where are a seminary so the
inftru&ion of youth, and a superior law court- It
is at present v. ithin about thirty-five miles of good
navigation, with a probability of having the river,
called the Great Saluda, that flows along one fide
if the land, made navigable. The land is beauti
fully diveifified into swells and vales, and is per
fectly well calculated for the culture of tobacco,
cotton, Indian corn, and small grain; a great
proportien of it may be made meadow grounds
There is not, perhaps, such a body of land, focii
cumftanced, for sale in any other of the U-. States,
The terms of payment will be made convenient to
the purchaser or puichafeis. Apply to the Prirterrf
August 29, lawtf
PRINTED BY
CIIILDSand SWAINE,
AT THEIR OFFICE NOS 209, HIGH-STREET
NEAR FIFTH-STREET,
PHILADELPHIA*