By P.FRENEAU : (at No. 209, Market Street) PublijhU Wednesdays and Saturday*, [Three Dollars annum.]
Numb. 70 of Vol. ll.]
• Citizens o/MeUNiTED States.
THE late intelligence from Europe, con
tains matter of the intereltin;
natcrethateveraffefted the civilised wc. Id;
it exhibits tn view an infant republic,
ftruggiiflg againit th,- molt fcatKtalaus afi'o
ciation of dtfpots that ever disgraced hu
manity; who, not contented v. ithenfliv
ing their own citizens,hav attempted to in
volve the whole human race in the fame
wretched state of vaflalage. Unfortu
nately for the world, a tlaf-i of political
Doctors have arisen in it, that preach the
abominable hcrefy, tha the nwU of man
kind have not virtue and abilities enough
to go»crn themselves, and therefore, o:u
time or other must submit to the govern
ment of princes, as though the latter were
an order of beings exempted from the
frailties and infirmities of human nature.
These doitors carry their insolence so fat
as to tell you, that the government oi
kings resembles tint of heaven, where e
very thing pays adoration and obedience
to t'le d.ity, as the comn.o 1 father of all
If the defendants of public rubbers ant
murderers can, through that channel,trac;
their pedigree to heaven, then kings ilia]
,be of divine extraction, but uith fubntif
(jun to these holy Apuftles <>f defpotifni, a
Ido not pay horn to inch deities
I pray God toprefetve me from their go
vernment.
The want of unanimity, which fre
rue tly occurs in the con i«ils of republics
and theafp'ring views of ambitious dema
£ tie-, give rife to partial evils, thele be
iiij; often caused by the eroiflaries, aru
magnified by the minions wid fycoph.mt
of the neighbouring coifrt* have cast it
Irillory. a dark lhade on the picture of re
publics; bet turn to the next page, am
reverse th.* picture. when tl.e ghaltly lhapt
of monarchy, in the horrid form of rd'obe
ry, extortion, afl'afiination. dungeons, poi
ders and mafTacres, presents it
felf toyovif view, feeling mm?
-with pity and indi nation—pity for the fuf
ferings of the unfortunate victims of.def
potifm, and indignation at the monsters ir
the lhape of men, that cxscute the tyran -
ny.
The resolution in France exhibits a
scene unequalled in the annals of the mo
dern world, taking in the magnitude of ths
object, the hazard of the euterprize, aut:
the boldnef* of executi >I.—The fire of li
berty, kindled in America, having beer
wafted into France, consumed. in one
blaze, the ancient despotism oi the govern
ment ; has began to spread beyond the li
mits of that nation, and warm the frozer
hearts of the (laves of Belgia —Alarmed a!
its progress, the despots of Europe have
formeei a combination, to extinguilh a fire
so peruicious to their power ; and (houlei
they succeed in their wicked designs again!]
France, can America think herfelf fate r
Do they notconlider this country as the
school of liberty, as the nursery of freedom:
France, yielding to their power, will the)
not lay tile axe at the root of the tree ol
liberty, and strike with their united arm;
our infant republic. The domestic ene
mies to your freedom, are so fenlible ol
this, that every misfortune that befall:
Trance is a buoy to their hopes.
The affairs of France is a touch (tone bj
which you may try the attachment of men
to your freedom.—Sufpeft the man tha:
attempts to dampen the ardor of youi
friendflvp to France, to whom you ate no'
only bound by the facretl tie of gratitude
but connected by the force of political
iympathy & the prelTure of common dan
ger. Ido not mean to suggest an idea ol
our joining France in the present war
em- lituation renders it unpolitic, and our
diltsnce from the feat of war tifelefs; bu:
thefi? observations are intended to call the
attention of my fellow citizens to the true
flat? of their political lituation, that the)
may prepare their mimls fur the worst, anc
be on their guard againd foreign & dome
stic enemies. Fortunately for the cauft
of humanity, the late dark conf'piracy a
gainst fieedo-m, has not clefed with . fa
tal a catastrophe as was Srft expetted : ant!
that Dumourier, the author of, and prin
cipal character in, the intended tragedy,
has quit the scene with the fame fuccef
and precipitancy as the celebrated Ameri
can traitor, so confpictions in the annals ol
infamy, and that the French army, uncor
rected by Austrian gold, and tindifmaved
by the treachery and desertion of their ge
neral, with the national convention, have
rallied round the ltaudaru ol' liberty, and
SATURDAY, June 29, 1793.
have determined t-o defend their country
or be buried under its ruins.
WILLIAM TELL.
EflTex, 15th June, 179 j.
Abf.racl offoreign Intelligent, with
remarks*
"From the Boftan Independent Chro
nic £E of" June 20.]
By the last accoiints, the situation of
[he French armies, it will be remembered,
was not thoroughly underltood; either up
on thy P.hine, of which the.cities ot Mentz
and Lan Jan, are the principal fortificati
ons; or in Flanders, of which Lisle, Valen
ciennes and Conde, are the garrisons. I t
was not even certain, whether the deiecti
on of their late general, DtJMOUiIIER, had
not extended its baneful influence to thele
places, so as to facilitate their fu render
ing to the Auftrians, of which theßritilh
pipers had announced the probability-
Nothing ofthis nature however, appears
cu have taken ett'eft, by the present intelli
gence.—On the other hand, the numbers
us 'he troops in either of them, were lup
jiofed by the national conmrnilliuners, fut
ficient to hold a'long and obliinate Iwge,
if not wholly to IVullrate the intentions of
the Gennan army. The battaliions of
France were recruiting tsft on the Iron
tiers, and the soldier; discovered in their
daily fkirmilhing, and in some actions of
magnitude, themoft heroic courage- He
roic we call it—becanfe the official ac
counts of the prince of SaXe Cobourg ac
knowledges it to have been obstinate—
an exprefiion of the utnioft force in the
mou.hofan enemy. The French indeed
like the Americans, have waflied-away the
slain of of imputed co'-vardice, with the
blood of their enemies.
It appears by these papers, that the Ger
mans are negociating by proclamation;,
which change the .ground in favour ol the
<iitacuhiea-ia- the of
jfUire fubjugatiou, augment. What, for
;x.ample, is more oppoiite than t'ne de
tlaratioas of the duke of Bruufwick and
he prince Cobourg—One was to burn and
Jeftroy Paris,if even one of the royal fami
y was injured. The latter willies for
upon the terms and ltipulations of
.lie 3rd constitution which the people had
adopted, and which aboliflies all the pri
vileged orders—lt wasjnft so in America
—In the firfl place, unconditional fubmif
lon. was offered—then conditional: and
ifte.-wards unconditional independence. —
Pray heaven, the event may be the fame
with the French, as the happiness of the
world, the exilteuce of civil li-
Deitj, even here,depends upon their main
taining their freedom.
In one of the English papers,
;hat the Germans have loft by action, tick
nefi'es. death and desertion, at 'east a third
:>f their army, si.ice the campaign opened
in February lall.
I t is certain at any rate, that some of the
battles were severe -and bloody; and
rvery body kfiows the dangers the health
jf foldicrs is exposeS to by their being early
.11 the field-
The accounts of tke commiflioners,
three of whom have tarried in the garri
on of Mentz, arc very favourable, ami
their presence will, no doubt, inspire the
"ojdiers with courage.
The vigorous proceedings of the conven
tion, in the punishment of the aristocrats,
•nid the fupprefiion of the rebels in Britta
ny, promises much to tile future security
of the republic.
It has been the policy of such characters,
confiding of the old nobility, or then
friends and dependants, to plead the con
flitutional authorities, to confound am
disorganize every thin;'. But moll ol
these persons have been seized, their in
trigues discovered, and their conlairacie:
fupprefled.
The combination of powers is more it
name than reality. One of the aijadu
camp of general Dumourier, has declare;
at the bar of the Afiembly* tljat the ene
mies of France difagrec' It is very cer
tain that every league of tlefpots to con
quer their enemies, has hitherto provad tt
be abortive, from the etvefts of \ ariot.s anc
dlfcordaht interests, which do not.fait tc
appear upon any material disappointment.
The profpert of famine in Franc.', with
which the Kritifh appear to have felici , -
ted themselves, is not now spoken of, cy
which we may conclude, that all their
hopes of such a dreadful calamity is nigh
at an end, The policy of the JSmifh i;abi
indeed Teems to lie in trying to ftarvc
li e womt' i and children of France, in or
ilcrto conquer th? men. But while they
are thus meditating all manner of evils
by Sre and sword, death and peltilence, to
ruin tl:'cattle of liberty in France, they
are arretted by diltrefies of a touching and
peculiar nature, in their own country.
It seems by the immense floods of paper,
and tlieiu jiier cxtention «,f credit, that
they have raised the quantity of their bills
uu't us all proportion to the money which
rcprefents them. Tlvs circumllance, and
the alarm it has occalioned among the
bankers, together with theftoppage of ex
ports to France, have checked their manu
faiturcs, anil have inundated the mer
chants with goods for which they have lit
.'ent. In ionfesjuence-of this, all trnit am:
.onfidetic.* betwe. n man and man is ;o to
:ally at tin end, that credit, (du* main
pring.of the British cotfilucrce) is slmoi
vholly at a. Hand —Failures, in number and
imonnt, beyond imagination, have iSkffn
ilate in tom'equeme; and all persons are
uminatitt;* with aiianillimenf, upon tile
lpvehy apd ditlrefs of theii (ituatioii, and
lpoti the means of relieving it. Hitherto
he only expedient propol'ed in parliament,
s worse than the evil it is intended to cor
■eft. For it obliges the borrower to de
jolit goqda to twice the amount of the
uin lie receives, and thus reduces him to
lie neceifty of giving the most "exorbitant
>reinium tor tne money he may takej as
iie liiuftiof these commodities to be depo
ned, are articles of trade, which he has
inquired upon credit, at the customary in
ereft cfj per centum a yrar. The go
ernrae.-.t af'rer all this, gives nothing but
>;!per, which is still add ng to t(ie mat's by
,vhuh credit has been oppressed, and the
irefent evils created.
But if we have not these particulars de
ailed as full length in their parliamentary
lebatea*.; the letter of Geti. Cobourg if
he ftropgeft evidence of forae calamity
.•xlftr; lie WUiffgtent powti of
i very ferioua nature ; for he has cojiftfieJ
hat the war v ithFrance has " Shaken Ku
ope itfelf to the foundation." A conf'elli
>n Which never would have been made by
lim, but upou the fulielt conviction and
he cU-areft evidence.
Two French privateers were taken ar.cl
"old for two hundred and fifty pounds,
.vhich had captured prizes from the Brit
ill to the amount of thirty thouCand pounds
teriing.
Itisfrtidin one of the Fnglifh paper;
hat Dumourier had depoficed two hitn
lfed thouf.md pounds in the British funds.
It was never known what Duclie the
Chaplain of Congress received'for his trea
iirvy, but Arnold it was fitppofed got a
jnnc ac.oco pounds (terling for his attempt
:o betray the garrison at VV'elt Point.
The French have fix millions of livre:
allotted for secret service money, the enfn
ing campaign ; no doubt t« countirtiine
.lie Britiih project of corruption. Tlii
Lirctimfiance may turn the tables, and con
tribute to defeat their enemies with theii
awn weapons*
There is a very remarkable clrcum
ftance in the BriiHli, which cannot fail ol
[iriking the mind of every American as s
most prominent and distinguishing feature
ii their national character : Their oppoli
tion to the French, is so great, that thev
would not go even to Heaven itfelf, if the
French were upon the fame i o.id .vitl
them—this is fully exemplified in all theii
daily publications ; for every newfpapci
teems with the moil cruel reproaches a
lainft the French for their zeal in defence
of their cause, and the resolution wit!
which they fuppdrt it ; Whereas formerly,
these very Frenchmen weie represented b)
them as slaves, unworthy the character oj
men, and the objects, 0:1 that account, oj
their utmost Icorh and indignation.
The French, on the other hand, seem t<-
invigoratein their efforts, and to lfrength
en in their resolutions.
Blancheland, the late governor of St.
Domingo, lias been convicted of treafct
against the republic, after a trial of 4:
hours, before -a jury, by the unanimou:
fuftrages of the court ; and yet,the ivifto
ci'ats of France, icattcred over Eng'nnd
and America, and who have no other em
ployment, are racking their inventions t>
jive a falfe colour to this, and every trnnf
aftion or' moment, to excite the prejudice
.if the honest and unreflecting, against the
French; just as the American refugees at
N'ew-Yoik and 111 England, in the late
ivar, were fabricating every calumny to
[Total Numb. 174.7
defame their own countrymen, of which
every American is fully sensible.
The molt alarming consequences \yere
apprehended at Manchelfer, among the
manufa&urers, who were out of employ
ment on account of the war. In Scotland
it was, (aid i'o less than 160,000 persons
were deprived of the means of support,
irom t!]e fame cause.
On the whole, the Ruffians {land aloof—
the Dutch are inactive as usual, the Spani
ards counting their beads, and trembling;
for the fate of their galleons—the Pri<fiians
remote, cautious, and occupied with .their
la.e acquisitions in Poland—the Aultrians
alone fighting this campaign, a*, the Prufii
mis fought the lafl—and the British employ -
d, as we have stated, iu bombarding the
French bv paragraphs, and deftroyirgthem
with their paper artillery.
Some accounts mention a duel l-etw ecu
the duke ol ork ai:d a son of the prince
at Orange. As indifferently as we think
of their intelleSs, we can scarcely believe
:hey have given this proof of their folly. -
"By these lafl accounts, Dumourier waj
making hir way to Vienna, in the interior
.if Germany ; and a greai diflance irom
France. So that this illuflrious traitor has
ufpended his visionary project of a counter
'evolution, at lealt, for the present. We
mstioufly 1 wait for further information,
which will be communicated, the momeut
ive receive it.
For the National Gazette.
Mr. Frinead,
-pHERE is an axiom laid down in private
lite, and another in politics, which
lave some fimilai'.ty, and may conjunelly
ipply to the llate of Georgia, at this awtut
unihire of her fate, in which it is pofiib'e
he late of the United States may beimol
ret\. The private axiom is, that the ciick
jlii is the last man in the pari.lt who per
ceives his own horns : the public one, that
10 man can tread down the bulwark of li
jerryTOspprhvis-poj/tilw-in-th* txtrsflu-.
The slate of Georgia has bee .i repeated
y injured and insulted in the groff.lt Inan
ler by the federal government, but ftich is
he artful knavery of the aristocratic junto
lere and theftrange (lupidity of too many
jf the yeomanry, that a great name gilds
very pill, which, however noxious, is
'wallowed with avidity.
It is high time the United States fhou'tf
enquire what fort of government they are
liitler—ls it republican ? Is it ariftocratf
:al—or, is it monarchical ?
It is not republican. If it Wai, we
hould not have seen ftich a Proclamation*
is appears by the pub ic prints to have
acen done at the city of Philadelphia on
12th of December last, offering joodollsrs
reward for each of the persons concerned
n killing certain Indians of the Cherokee
nation.
The infant state of Georgia swallowed
the federal coi fHtution. with, so voracious
m appetite that like the glutton with bis
syliers, fhetook not time to examine wht«
ther they Were milky or not, till they pro
duced fiicli a uaufea, as to iucfine thp poor
wretch toahearty fit of puking'when lie
had not the power of disgorging.
There were not wanting at that period
La Georgia chnrafters of duplicity who
wifbed for the eltablrfhrtient 0! a govern
ment wherein fycophancv and some other
reptile qualities of the mindwould exalt
them into public consequence, wherein
they might turn their abilities to the bell
advantage poflible—and to deceive the ig
norant majority they wirifpered in their
ears* that "nothing but the adoption of the
federal conffitution could save the Rate
from political damnation." Two only iu
tMe convention oppof<?d its adoption, but so
badly did they manage the matter, that
notwithllanding their opposition, the vote
palfed the houfc on the fatal moruir.g, he*
mint! contradict'),
At that day the bulk of the people of
Georgia, might have been aptly compared
to a child agreeing to burn its finger for a
ginger cake. The child had not sense
enough to d.fcoier that the smart was to
continue after the fitiger was withdrawn
from the blaze. The Georgia convention
(aveiy few excepted) had jnfl as much po
litical knowledge as would balance the
child's ideas <jf the effetts of fire.
The state of Georgia, a frontier, had,
for many years fufFrred grievously by the
depredations of the Indians. The federal
conftttutiim came forward in the garb c$
* Set; Nacioaal Gazette, No, 11S.an artful ghllant atlilrefliii?, an innocent and
unftifpecling girl, whose fortune, not her
person or mental accomuli llijneiTTs, was the
object of his atfecliun. The deceived mul
titude expected it would afford them am
ple protection against their lavage neigh
bours.
ArrJ it 13 with a vengeance we are pro
te.ced I—A feu> federal troops are Rationed
o.i our frontiers to give protection to the
Irivliiiis and pnnilh any citizen ot Georgia
wha (hall presume to kill one ot them
altho' of a party who had ju!l embrued
their hands 111 the blood of his wite ani
children, burnt his habitation, and carried
off as much of his {lock and furniture a:
they could lay hold of or manage.
Ye demi-gods of federalifm, do no "ifioP'
llaunt your (lumbers of the dillreU'es en
tlured oil onr frontier?— Surrounded b;
jninions, fycop'iams and paralites (the fini
AV-nfible marks of royalty) the glare o;
your borrowed plumes has so dazzled the
eyes ot the atlonilhed multitude, that ii
h<>, in fait, become difficult to periuacU
them that you are not infallible
Is it potlibie you can real!}/ conceive bi
suppose the Creek Indians tobeat amity
Xvith the United States, when a very flight
exertion might have procured you authen
tic information that the Cherokees, as well
as the other great and refpeftable allies oi
the T _'nited States, the Creeks, helped tc
defeat the two generals Harmar and St.
Clair ?
B ,>iiold the salutary effects of a royal man
date appearing in form of a proclamation
The prefatory part of it is fufficieiit tc
condemn the relitfue. Authentic informa
tion could not have been received, becault
to be authentic it wasnectffary it Ihould be
true. Hearken then to the voice of truth :
A militia officer, living o.i the wellerr
frontier of Georgia, had some horses car
ried off by a party of Cherokee Indians. A
few of his neighbours were killed, several
Jloules burnt, and a confulerable quantity
of Rock carried off from various people by
those rejpettabLe aborigines of this ill fated
country. He collected afew of his militia,
pursued the murderers, palied several In
dian towns without moleiling any of the
inhabitants, am! finally arrived at that in
"which the holtilefavages had taken refuge.
This hollile town he laid in alhes, as any
other good soldier would have done under
like circumflances, killed as many ot the
red men as he could come at there, and
then returned home, palling again in the
mod peaceable manner tnro' their towns,
when he had it in his povver to annihilate
them and their inhabitants.
This ofilcer had been generally a£live in
Juppreffing the violent attempts of the In
<dians, which thwarting the views of a few
of our oligarchical gentlemen, he was mark
ed out as a proper obje£t on which to try
the validity of the proclamation. He wa
"taken into cnflody by the federal marlhai
for the district of Georgia, when he chose
to go forward to trial, conscious of his in
nocence, rather than yield to the solicita
tions of his friend? ; one hundred and fifty
of whom prefentcd themfeh es, and prof
fered to rele ife him by force.
This, with the court-party, will be an
additional inßance of the Izwlefs difpolition
of the Georgians. Hut they areinillaken :
it was only a resuscitation of that patriotic
spirit which gave birth to the two battles of
Lexi'igton t-.nd Bunker' hill, and paved the
way to tn.ife exalted Rations in whichfome
now ifiine, who seem to forget that their
conference is wholly and totally from the
people, and that from tne current of their
breath it derives its exigence only.
As an extenuation of the condufl of the
federal government towards the United
States generally, and the Rate of Georgia
particularly, it cannot be denied but that
the people wear the yoke so tamely, that
ti • plain inference to be drawn is. The
Almighty originally intended them for
Haves, and therefore did not endue them
"with mental faculties to support fnch a go
vernment as they had been tantalized with.
Solomon slept with his fathers—Reho
fcoam ascended his throne—lie took bad
cotiufel, which Jereboam availing himfelf
of, rent the kingdom in twain. It is pof
iible, nay it is more than probable, that a
duplicate of the tranfaSions of those days
may be copied into the pages of American
Jiiilory, when certain heads, which are now
warm, are repoling in the dull.
A Citizen of Georgia.
Wilkes County, April 15, 1793.
NEW-YORK, June 2;.
Copy of a let'cr from a gentleman in Wil
mington, N. Carolina, to the printers of
the Daily Advertiser, dated June 16,1793.
" On Thursday laR was brought into
this port, an Enelifh {loop called the Pro
vidence, from Montego Bay, James Ro
bertfon, mailer, a prize to the French pri
vateer Le Vainqueur de la Baßille, Fran
cois Henry Hervieux, commander—fiuce I
when the privateer has arrived.
" It appears that the Vainqueur de la
Paßille. .ale the Hettcr of Philadelphia,
was ptirchafed in Charleßon by captain
Hervieux (an officer in the French navy)
who having through the medium of the
co'fill ol the French Republic, redding in
Charleßon, procured u commidion tor his
veflel, armed her. and having caused the
American papers belonging to the Hcctor
to be deposited in the enftom house in
Charleston, failed on a cruise.
" That between Cape Fear and Cape
Romaine, at the diflance of tour and an
half leagues from land, he fell in with the
Providence, which he captured after having
chafed her some time.
" Since capt. Hervieux's arrival, it hav
ing b.'en rumoured that a certain Gideon
Olinftea-d, formerly rlie owner of the Hcc
tor, had acted as an officcr on board the
French privateer, at the time of the cap
ture of the (loop ; although an American
citizen, two magistrates of the county,
in pursuance (as they supposed) of the pro
clamation of the P'-efident of the United
States, thought proper to illue their war
rant for the apprehending el' said Olmftead
—and upon examination, conceived the
evidence to I- e of a nature, ami his cafc and
situation such as deserved to be submitted
to the cognizance of the federal judiciary.
They accordingly caused Mr. Olmltend to
enter into a recognizance in the sum of two
hundred pounds, tor his appearance at the
next diftrift court, to be hoiden lor the di
itrict of North-Carolina, on the ftrll Mon
day in July next.
'• Cipiain Hervieux is acknowledged to
have treated his prisoners with unusual
gen -rofity ; nor have they since their ar
rival in the harbor, been at all retrained
of their liberty.
" 'I'he captain of the Br'rtifh (loop, taking
advantage Of this indulgenee, availing him
felf of the countenance and suppOrt he has
received in this town, and by advice of
connfel, has instituted an action of trespass
againit the commander of the French pri
vateer and Mr. Olmftead, in the sum of
two thousand pounds, upon pretence that
the capture Was illegal.
" Vexatious 'as is this suit. it will cer
tainly be productive of the mo&L&Hous in-
captain Hervieux, (who is
still in the custody of the fheriff) and will
prob ibiy discourage that liberality in others
which has prompted his conduct in thiscir
cumftance ; since far from releasing their
prisoners with fpeec'y humanity, caution
will teach the French crmfers in future,
the neceflily of confining (at leatt) their
Eriglifti captives, 'till they reach the terri
tories of the French Republic, or until the
chance of war fhaU bring tlfeni relief and
liberty."
By the arrival of the snow Pallas, captain
Avery, yefterd iv afternoon, from Lon
don, we ha\e received Englifli papers to
May 9, from which we have feleited the
following : —
BRUSSSELS, May i.
By private letters we are informed, thai
Nantz has furremlered to the vi£toriou>
arms of the counter-revolntionifts. The
lame fetters announce, that Philip Egalite
Was carried back to Paris, thofr who were
carrying him to being afraid ol
meeting the Marfeinefe upon the road.
LONDON, May 7.
From Tuifday's London Gazette.
TOURNAY, May 3.
On the lftinftant, the French attacked
the advanced posts of the left wing of the
combined army, but were repulsed in all
:heir attempts. On the fame morning the
French also attacked the advanced posts o;i
:he centre, but wore there likewise re
gulfed : They fuffered in these several en
gagements a considerable loss both of men
ind cannon.
We have this day received letters from
Bruflels, dated the 3d instant, in the after
noon, one of them inclosing the following
letter that moment come to hand.
" Mons, May 1.
" We have taken by assault the moun
tain of Aufin, orte league distant from Va
lenciennes, which was flrongly fottifiec
with cannon, and intercepted the commu
nication of the four roads. We have taker
several prisoners, and we are assured 40 or
;o pieces of cannon. However this may
be, it is certain that tVe have pofleflion ol
the mountain ; fothat we can keep a check
on the c*ntp of Fatnars, and get pofleffioE
of Valenciennes with more facility."
Extract of 3 letter from Dover, May 5.
" The captain of the packet from Of*
tend, just arrived, reports, that a melTen
ger arrived a s Oftend from the armies yes
terday afternoon, who brought an account
of an action, in which tfje French had sus
tained a considerable loss. The Duke ol
York v'as engaged in it; but particulars
are not ft a ted."
The whole capture of the Spanish gal
leon was on Saturday last adjudged to the
captors, and the Spanilh ambaflader has
aflented to it, after a minute inveftfgation
on the fuhject. Lord Hood will be entitled
to a lhare, as commander in chief of the
fleet which made the cspture ; and it i;
said that his proportion alone w ill amoum
to (-0.0001. sterling.
Lord Hood, as commander In chief of the
Mediterranean fleet, comes in for a 16th o:
this prize, whatever it may turn out to be
and all other captures made by the ship:
under his orders, which nuift nett his Lord
fllip a very capital fortune.
In consequence of the cargo of the rich
recaptured Spanish ship being allowed by
the government as an entire prize, a troop
of light hoiTe was clifpatched from Lou
don on Monday last' o PortfmCutTi,to efcoii.
this immense wealth tlireflly to town.
The French Convention have voted to
their minister at war, the enormous fuin
of 52,800,c00 livres, or about 2,300,0001.
to provide subsistence for the armies.
BriifTels Gazette Extraordinary.
" May 2, 1793- 1
" "*~he French came to attack us yester
day in force. They wei eat firft repulferi
from St. Sauve. There is reason to be
lieve that their intention was to turn the
left wing of our army.
" It was determined to make the feconei
line march by Sebourg, Conchies andPref
fen. Conchies has been burnt —The ene
my were beaten, and purfned asfar as Fa
mars.
" Four divisions of Braco drove then'
from Saten, and took from them fix can
non, with their horses.
About one P. M the firing ceased, but il
began again in the right wing of the arm)
about three, and was still continued tii;
seven.
" The corps v.ndergenera 1 Clairfayt, are
dill inptirfuit of the enemy. Our loss i:
rftinv.ted at almost 200 men. Onr chas
seurs fnffered greatly, and would have
been difpeifed, had it not iSeen for the sup
port of the cavalry.
" The French have loft a number o1
men. Besides thirteen ammunition wag
gons, we have taken from them 8 pieces ol
cannon, of which four are 4 pounders, twc
pounders, and one 12 pounder, together
with a 14 pound howitzer.
" We wait for more circumstantial de
tails of this affair."
A very important a£tion took place or
:lie 1 ft inft. between a part of the combined
armies and the French—On the morning
Df the lft. the French advanced a conlide
•able bodv of troops against the corps ol
Prullians under general Knoblefdotf, oc
upying the post of Maulde, and Kkewife
igainft the bod) of Auftrians occupying the
mportant p«ft before Concfe. Tie reliei
>f that place was evidently the object ol
lie French. They meant by advancinj
igainft the Pruflian general and the advan
:fd corps of the Prince of Saxe Cooourg':
irmy, to keep them in check, whr'e the)
nade their chief attack upon the Auftrians
inder cover of a large wood oi which tlx
French were in pofieffion. They torn
nenced their attack at five in the morning
ind between that ami evening made fotn
lifFerent attacks, the last of which, tin
irbft commenced at ihree, anc
ivas not over till between fix and feveh it
he evening. The Auftrians stood all tin
lifFerent attacks with tlie utmost bravei;
inel firnmeli. The greatest part of then
were engaged with nu<firtietry ih the wood
jencra! Knoblefdorf detached fevera
rorps from his post to their affiftance,wh;ct
le could do with the greatest fafety, aslx
,vas supported by twobattalions of Britill
"rom Tournay. The French were a
ength completely repulsed, and fevera
pieces of cannon were taken.
The loss wasconfiderable on both fides
The French were greatly superior in num
jers. They retreated in confufion to Fa
uars. It was supposed that the confe
rence of this victory on the part of the
:llies must be attended with the fall oi
Donde.
The Paris letters received yesterday, are
lated the 30th ult. They state that the
:ity was perfectly tranquil, and that no
hing new had occurred. The triumph oi
he Jacobins, on the acquittal of Marat was
In BrilTot's Journal tbis ac
quittal is mentioned as the ruin of France
The French have feflt out all the (hips ol
,v;rr they can muster to proleft the coast ol
Brittany ; so fearful are they of fuccoui
jeing lent from this country to the royal
fts in that quarter.
The French arefaid, from very good zu
hority, to have forty fail of the line now at
uid ready for sea, tolerably well manned,
uid in decent condition for service.
Accounts have been received from Tcr
'ey, of the date of the 29th ult. It appears
:hat on the 23d, a French fleet,lander con
■oy of three frigates of considerable force,
looel very close in vt'ith the ifiand, whicl:
jeeafioned the alarm guns to be fired, am,
:he beacons to be lighted. The French,
lowever, towards the evening stood away,
without attempting any descent. One 01
[wo of the French ships stood so close in, bj
ro fire upon some of the batteries on shore.
—It was this cannonading, and the fignah
?f alarm from the ifiand of Jersey, which
etl the Lieut. Governor of Guernsey to
jonclude that a descent had aflually been
itcernpted, and induced him to difpatcl
oitfe intelligence to England. The 11 tli
uid 12th regiments, which failed from Ply
mouth for tlie relief of the ifiand. will pro
jably retnrn to their former quarters, up
□11 finding it in a state ot security.
It is reported, that the con/mifTariei from
the National Convention have ordered all
the Knglifli merchantsrefiding at Dtihkirk
to quit thattown inlefs than 24 hours from
the Ift inft.
EXETER, May 8.
Ex trait of a letter from Lord Sheffield to the
Mayor of that City.
" Howfe of Commons, 4th May, 1793-
" I have enclosed some regulations and
rules which the commiflioners intend to »-
ilopt. ar nearly tlie fame. I nrgeiT the ne
cessity in a meeting (which, is this monienc
broke up) of fending to the country imme
diately some Iketch of our genera! inten
tions, and I hope the ewclofed will be found
ufeful at Bristol.
'• All persons who mean to derive any
advantage from Exchequer Bills to be
granted under the art of Parliament which
is expected to pass in two or three days,
must caMfe them to be delivered to the office
us the commissioners/or iffning Exchequer
Bill's, at Mercer's Hall, London, on or be
fore Monday the 13th inft. at 12 o'clock- at
noon, letters sealed up containing the
name and relidence of the party, the film
he requires, the poods or other fVcurities
he means to deposit, and if at a difltaxuo
Irom London, the name of the person t(»
whom the Exchequer Bills ate to be deli'i
vered. Applications to the board to be
kept as feci'et aspofllble, and all applications
tiot approved, or which do not come with
in tlie scope of the afl, or the regulations
of the board, (hall be returned to the par -
:ies, without the fame being entered in the
x>oks of the commiflioners.
" Except 011 particular occasions, pot
ess than 5001. or more than SCCOI. fecuri
y will be accepted from one individual.
" The fnialleft furo to be advanced to
iny individual will be 40001.
" This lad is a new clause in the bill.
" Not more than fifty per cent, will be
idmitted on manufactured poods, and sixty
percent, on raw materials."
'Translated and puiliflicd at the d'efire of
the writer.]
"opy of a Letter from J. L. COTELLE p
a:i inhabitant of Cayes, to Citizen GE
NET, dated Cheftertewn, June 9, 1793.
Citizen genet, minister of the French
rejrublic to the United States of Ame
"ica, in Philadelphia. —Citizen minister, I
lave seen with equal indignation and fur
irize the letter* written to you by the Civil
Santhonax and Polverel,
ind ain 110 less affected that out of compli
ance to them you have cavrfed it to be 111-
erted in the American newspapers. Its
abj-=-£t feems'to be to raise the fame preju
dices among the Americans* that these
entlemen availed themselves of in St. Do
ningo, against those emigranls wliram their
-,liud indignation pursued to these hofpita
jle shores. The character yon ha\e to
"uftain ought to ensure your impartiality ;
and since the civil conmiiffiotiers fland so
much in awe of the public opinion of this
country, as to endeavour to bewilder it by
fallhood and slander, I flatter myfeif that
you will not be offended with the pub
itation of this letter thfo' the fame channel
which conveyed yours to the world.
Let the American people know then,
that the far greater number of the St. Do
mingo emigrants have been nnder the ne
cessity of flying from the odious and abfurtJ
yranny which is enforced in that unhappy
country under the fanflion of the new re
public of France. Many ot them, and my
"elf of the number, have been compelled
o escape individually from a profcriptioa
he molt unnatural, executed without dif
:rimination. and the most unbridled licen
ioufuefs. They who know it not ought
0 be informed, that the fir ft constituting
lational aflembly, in order to alleviate int
liferent parts of the French dominions,
hose troubles which were inseparable front
1 great revolution, authorized the execu
ive to appoint civil comniilF.oners, whole
Hilinefs it was to employ the must perfualive
neans to recall exasperated or mifinflßrnitd
ninds to that love of peace, union, and e
]ualityT which in future (hould be the prin
:ipal foundation ol the new facial contract
)f France.
By the late revolutionary events of France,
hose civil commiifioncrs of St Donii' go
rausforined themselves into abfolutedi&a
ors, mid Tot themselves above all laws.—
!\n authority so absurd and exorbitant, it is
ivell known, can be no further tolerable in
inies of public confufion, than as it is in
orae fort conformable to juftke and im
lartiality, and calculated to crush such fac
ious combinations as would disturb the
public peace But what name iliall be giv
en to it when only employed ill fomenting
:he molt contemptible cabals, of which it
declares itfelf the avowed proteflor ? Such,
however, has been the part acted by the
commiflioners Santhonax and Volverel il*
St. Domingo, feirt thither with only the
nimble title of conciliatory commiflioners,
organize the colony accordingto the de
cree of April 4th, (792. which grants equal
ty of condition to all free men of colour*
I c has been their cons! ant endeavour to add
fuel to the flame of anarchy, in Cbftinatsly
contemning that decree, and trampling litt
ler foot that equality which was decreed
• :p!y with a view to throw into the hands
in the mulattoes, by any means how violent
soever, every branch of the administrative
and governmental authority of the colony.
So far frarn that, the decree forbade them
re eftablifhingthe conftitwt'rngauthority, ill
taking it even for the basis of their opera
tions. Itfimply empowered them tocreate,
of a new, a colonial afiembly by the legal
and constitutional method of a primary
assembly. Supposing drcumflancesto have
* See National Gazette of Ji.it e Urequire:! thit all the p.-ibjji funftloaaries
generally klO v 1 to be ctifiiFe;ie(l, or onl<
iuf}>?itecl of difaffeftio 1, ihould be recalled
pursuant to tile powers which no one evei
tjifpnted.the omii :li oners hid a rijhc ti
the fune decree in authorizing :
provision for ficcelTirs. understood without
doubt, that it (hjutd be by con titutiona
means. It certainly never me mr, that the)
themselves rtiould appoint o fieers tli.it ought
only to be nominated byth 'jrirlfd {lion, 01
that they should violate ad the ftjrmalieiei
prefgribed by ancient as well as modar'
laws, to confer the ftcre 1 ch i acter o
judge. or that like the Sulta i of Turkey
tile/ hull?) usurp the sacred rights of citt
2e 1 hip, or appoint any others forjudge
except m.-n whon thejieopie elleemed anc
had confidence in.
If" it ttiould ? proved that the commis
sioners have fuffeved tjie aff'mblies of thv
communes to elect municipal officers, ther<.
are grounds to fay that it would have beet
equally cafv to aifemMe them foe the elec
tion of all other public o.Seers, whose no
mination is constitutionally vetted in the
people. The affcinbiy of the commune
might even have appointed delegates t<:
farm anotiier colonial aflVmbly and fend
deputies to the cdfivention. But perhap
the inulattoe party, of w yich the civil com
xniffioners have declared themselves the
patrons, were not the prevalent one.or per
rap3 it was the intention ofthefe legiffators
thit neither party (hould get the bitter of
the other, but to suspend them both, and
the rights of both, in perfe£t equilibrium
However, there is not much to complain
of on this head ; for, by the firll nom na
tion,to which the unulattoes assented, there
was not a tingle municipal jurifdiftion in
the colony where they were not admitted,
pot .vith:Unding that at this period, in mo
of them the whites had a majoriry ; aid
this is a fufliciem proof of the submission ol
the 1 tter to the decree of the 4th of April,
a id of their dellre to concur by all possible
means in re-e!lablilliing peace The civii
commiflioners, theri, Mill always be under
the reproach of having been the firlt i.ifli
jjuorsofuur late troubles, and, as far a;
concernsth? citizens, having tyrannically
ut'urpvd all tlie pb.vers of government, and
in order t'' appr >priate th rm to themselves,
conlantly opposed the appointment of rie
legites, eith r to form a new afl'.mbly, or
to be feilt to the convention.
Such, citizen minister, are the truth:
which the ci* ,1 commitKoners hive not im
parted to vmi in their letter, and which are
jlf-vertheleTs necefTiry to he dd'clofed to the
A'tienc 1 is. ' 'hey "ought alto to be il
- that the •great crime of the com
mune of Port-au-Prine was,their dem Hid
ing the formation of a colonial a(Temb.y,
and for having agiintt their inclination,
th >* authorized by Ihe decree of {+>. 4th «1
April (as it authorized ail the other com
muies of the ilia id) proceeded to the
nomination of deputies for this aflembi)
a 111 to the national convention. It may be
DeceflVy to add, that the community ol
Cayes had tiie fame with for the
formation of filch an aflembly,and tor fend
ing to tile national convention.
This object of the whites was to enforce
that law of equ . whiclfthey had long
w»hed Jor to :io purpose; an equ dity \ liici
could no longer be real/y.ed, li ice the mn
iattots, grown richer than the whites bj
pillage a id robbery, had inclined the bal
ance of wealth to their fide.
Such are the real motives of that general
p ofcciptioii of the white citizens mo-'l
dei oted to the evolution. This <ondu£l
of the coi iiniffioaers, doubtless, con
ceals another design which the mulattoei
: y not be aware of. but the effects ol
which they may yet feel as well as the
whites: this is 110 less than apian for the
general emancipation of the (laves.
After having fomented the troubles, giver
strength to anarchy, aided the revolts oi
the (laves, and reduced to alhes the produce
of the colorty ; and having, coufequently
ruined the national concern for the prefer-
Vation of this invaluable pofTeffion, would
it now be very difficult to perfu ide al:
France that the only means to restore St
Do ningo to profp j rity is a general eman
cipation of the Haves?— Would it be diffi
cult to persuade her that tins is the only
method whereby (he can indemnify herfelt
for the enormous expence. that Will i 1 fu
ture be incurred, and to no purpose ?—or
to aflure her that fuck is the military (kil
©f the civil co nmiffioners Si.ichouax anc
Polverel, that it behoves he 10 know thai
the tirft was for a long time before his colo
ni.il dictatorlhip, hired ed'tor to the lufci
011s gaz tte of PrudkO'nme :
and that both Polverel and himlelf are botl
well known agrncs, I will not fay of a par
ticular feft, but of a faction, mo"e inclmec
to dilfeminate its own particular principle
tia 1 to aflert the profjjruy of Frendi re
publicanifm, e tablilhed as it is 0,1 a bafi
more consonant to 'luman reason, anc
therefore more solid th m any other fyttem
The commune of Cayes, equally alTem
bled under the authority «f the municipa
lity, took the liberty to make known t<
eominiffioner Polverel the conttiuuional re
prefeutations advanced in their proces
verbal oi t ie 29th of jf'anu >ry lad, and in ai
addref. nade to him, relative to ttte depri
vation and arbicr try imp> fonment of cer
tain citizens —Ha atif.ve.~ed, a month af
terwards, by a prcckiiuuon of the 4th of
March following. These are the two pieces
• tilt I subjoin hereto, by way of extract,
fubniitting tlieni to the decilion of the peo
ple of America. They will be the belt
judges of the enormity of the crime iinpu-.
;ed to the members of the abovementioued
jfleinbly (one of whole secretaries I was)
4.!lnJ may t'urm an opinion what credit is
due to these gentlemen in the report they
gave in of their futol'eqnent operations a
,;aintt the town of Port-ail Prince; and fi
nally they will belt judge what refpeel our
French demagogues pay to t'.e eternal im
mutable principles of sacred equality and
univerfyl jujlice, under colour of which,
they impose upon a t > > credulous and much
bused people, like certain falfepriefts who
preach up mysteries they do not believe in,
and a morality the auilerity of which they
weli know how to relax when it aft'efts
thenifelves.
(Signed) J. L. COTELLE.
Cheitertown (Maryland) June 9, 1793.
P. S. Jn tranferibing the two picces that
accunapany the above ietter, I could not
avoid adding several reflections on the fc
cond in order, which you are at liberty to
retrench if you judge proper, or publilh
with my letter. If I could have gone tu
tlie expence of the impreifion,l would have
t^iveil the whole entire, accompan ed with
an Etiglilh tranllatiun, as I am not certain
:h it merely at my requilition they would
..ej.iferted ill the public papers.
I certify the above to he a true copy
f 0111 the original, to be printed ac
cording to a req'Jeli made of me in a
le ter from J. L. Cotelle, dated the
9th i.'iltant—Ph.lad 'jMiia. June 13th.
1793- Esnatjlt.
TThe two pieces referred to will appear
i) future papers, j
PHILADELPHIA,
Saturday, June 29.
Extratl of a letter from Av.gujla (Georgia)
da'ed "June 7.
"People in these parts seem determined
to have their hands no longer tied up from
exerting those abilities that God and na
rure have given tnem against Indian mur
ilerer, and incendiaries. Regular bodies
of cavalry are formed and forming, under
the auspices of the Itate Government, to
carry retributive vengeance into the terri
tories of those unprincipled destroyers,
the savages. These bodies are arranged
on such a plan as to relieve each other at
proper periods, and by this means and
with their sudden inroads, ke?p the ene
my iu a state of perpetual couftemation.
It « * *:rc+-t«t«t tVdcinl «ioojm in this
Itate are laughed at by the Indians, and a
whole company of them not so much
dreaded as a single Jhirt rr.an mounted on
horseback."
Newlpapcrs received from France contain
the details of the whole of Dumourier's
plot and tfeachery (theyfhall be fuccef-
Tively communicated.) By these it will
appear, that that infamous mail had con
ceived the project of eltrxying the inde
pendence of his cauntry from the moment
he was placed at the head of affairs, by
men as despicable as himfelf. T— whose
presence is now tolerated in a freo country
where he is even received by perl'ons. \\ ho
appear to have forgotten all they owe to
thenifelves : T —.whom the French court
had employed in attempts to bribe those
whom they wiihed to bring over to their
interest, presented to the king,
as capable of directing him, and the choice
(hews, that he well knew how to select a
villain.
Dumourier, of an intriguing and ambi
tious difpulition, fcarcelv railed to the lta
tion to which he aspired, forgot his bene
factors. He believed, that lie could he
come all powerful, by wearing for a time
the maik of patriotifin ; having succeeded
1:1 his firft attempt, he determined to com
plete alone his ambitious plans; but he
was soon brought low again by those whom
he had forgot while fortune imiled.
Become more circumfpeft by this firft
fall, he felt the necessity of renewing his
connection with intriguers, whose power
he so sensibly felt when he was no longer
their accomplice. At the fame time he
resolved to rake vengeance 011 t'ne king, by
whom be thought himfelf injured; with
this view, instead of aorrefponding with
turn directly as the conftitutibn required of
commanders, he addressed his difpatcfies
to the national afTembly, and thus gave a
clue to the treasons of the court, to which
he was delirous, by making himfelf feared,
to become neceliary ;—But the people
puftied matters further than they wished—
i)umourier T—, SteFoi, &c. feeing the
king undone endeavoured, some to collect
the wreck of their difiionourable for
tunes, others the means of attaining pofl'ef
lion 01 the fiipreme power, and all finding
the king no longer ufeful to their designs,
abandoned him. T. went to England, he
was empowered to offer Dumourier's ser
vices to the king; St Foi remained 011
the frontier to serve as an intermediate a
gent. The plot attempted by Dumou
rier was laid by T —, by him presented to
lord Hawkefbury, and adopted by the
couucil of George the 111. Persuaded ot
its infallibility this noted conspirator has
tome to Anierica to continue his infernal
manoeuvres, and covered with gold and
•-'nines, a corrupter by trade,- he comes to
poifo!) this growing empire, endeavour to
introduce in it all the vices of courts, and
to draw it into the league of despots com
piled againlt France. [Gen. Adv.]
" The repeated accounts (Tays a corres
pondent) that we receive, of the flopping
and plundering of American vefl'els, by
iiritilli armed veffVls, isl'ogrofs a violation
of that refpeft due to neutral powers, that
if the government of the United States
ainely submits to these insults, we may very
liortly expedt our sea ports will be plun
lered tinder pretext of fearchi lg for
-'rench propewy. Were filch ails of holti
ity committed by any power on earth on
-iritifn v. flels, we Ihouhl hear of that 11.1-
ion's demanding redress and reliitution, as
lie did in the affair at Nootka Sound.
" The British subjects now refilling in our
.ouftti y, may perhaps, laugh at the idea ol
America attempting to relent thrfe injuries
— but it may be well for them to retolleil
hat America once defied the power 01
jreat Britain ; and "though (lie may Hoi
l ive it in her power, to compel that na
ion bv force of arms, to make reliitution.
he can seize Britilfi vessels and otlier pro
j rty within her own territory, and can
is ihe did at the commencement of the
ite war, drive every Brititli fubjLfl 0111
)f the country :—and it would require nt
;reat exertion on her part even to take
Canada.''
Extratt of a letter from Savannah, datec
'June 6.
11 The Uritilh here kept their king's birtl
Jay 011 the 4th, and drank roalts. Gooe
maan rs fliould nave taught them (confi-
Jering where they lire) to give the Prefi
lent of the United States previoujly t(
:heir king, queen, and royal family. Th<
:>ra£tice of publishing their toads in Ameri
.an newspapers is little better than an in
fill to this country, where (to fay Rotbinj
nore) the part their nation has taken again f
:he liberties of France limit forever rendei
i an obje£t of popular execration."
Accounts from Kentucky to the ad oi
fune mention that 400 Indians had croffec
lie Ohio the latter end of May, some dif
ance below Fort St. Vincent, 200 of whorr
vere deilined to attack the frontiers ol
Kentucky, while the relt were to enter the
.vildemefs with a view to intercept emi
jrants and travellers.
Heads of Intelligence by late arrivals.
Seveial fkirmilhes had taken place on 01
lear the French frontier, be. ween partiei
>f the republican troops and the Aultrians.
. a these the French have generally beer
occeiTsfiil, and given the mercenaries ol
iefpotifm a sample of what thay may expeifl
hould their leaders presume to condud
hem into the territories of th - republic.—
On the 30th of April Paris was inperfet!
rauquility, and nothing new had occurred
Vlarat had been acquitted : Several (hip:
jf war had beesi detached by order of the
:onventiou to protect the coast ot Brittan)
from any fucceursheing sent from Knglanc
;o support tne rebels in that part or' France,
The combined armies near the norther
frontiers of France could not act for wan
of their (lores and magazines, which hac
not yet arrived. On theeift, the. Freud
armies at Mentz and Lar.diu tffectualh
prevented the progress of the Prufli m>.—
The French frontier was daily and hourh
lirengthening, the military in high Tpirits
and determined to carry the glorious cauh
through, or perilh in its defence. Tin
Einprefs of Rudia had taken poHelßon of.
:onliderable part of Poland—She had at
tempted a juftiiication of her conduct, wltl
a; much truth and jultice as tlie king oi
Prussia for seizing on Dantzick : the kim
of Poland had been given to underitand b)
the Ruffian niiuilter that unless he attendee
the confederation at Grodno, Prince Louii
>f Wirtemberg would be appointed by the
mperial court to succeed him on the tfirone
jf Poland ; Staniflaua obeyed the mandate
mil was on his way to Groduo when the
ast accounts left Europe, to sanction the
>artition of his kingdom. The Englilt
ninifter at the court of Denmark had re
vived orders from London to require the
)jnes to accede to the league againlt
'ranee ; they, like the Swedes, had wilhed
:o avail themselves of the advantages of a
leutrality, but as Sweden was evidently
iverawed by Rullia, it was expected the
Danes would loon yield to the felicitations
the confederacy. Tile Dutch had begun
:o manifeft a strong dilinclinatiou to the
:.>ntinuance of the war, and had intimated
to England that a speed/peace was abso
lutely necefiary. The war on the part of
the German empire was carried on with
difficulty ; the emperor being obi gcd to
borrow plate &c. of his fubjefts. to be coin
ed, to be repaid at the end of lix years,
with an interelt of four and an half, anel
a premium of four per cent, per annum.—
The Austrian army near the French fron
tier were waiting for a body of heavy ar
tillery, that they expe£ti*f would carry all
before it in their intended attack on France.
Sixteen thousand horses were employed in
drawing it thro' the low countries.
It was believed is England, when the
laitaccounts cams away, that a pfan had
been agitated in the National Convention
for detaching Great-Britain from the ge
neral combination of powers, and two
perforis had actually arrived in Londort
with letters preliminary to a negociation.
The late Mr. Rumfej's (team-boat has
been tried on the river Thames, and found
to anfwerthe intended pur pole. The ves
sel is nearly of one hu Hired tons burthen,
and was propelledsgainfttheflre.nl by
means of a column of water forced ftern
ways in a horizontal dire&ion thro' the
keel, which is a hollowed trunk.
Several French frigates arrived at Cape
Francois the 11 th of June instant. On the
12th a Eritifh 20 gun (hip was brought in
there a prize to one of them The French
•hip Jupiter of 74 guns has aifo c aptur ed and
sent in the ftijp Ann of GlasgoW, last from.
Philadelphia, with 1500 barrels of flour
bound for the Bay of Honduras.
We hear from the northward that pre
parations are making at Weftpoint to put
that important polt into a complete ftateof
defence, to prevent any European attempts
at a partition of the United States. It is
added.that large quantities of lead are also
pnrchafing by order of government in the
d fferent states, and all the spare cannon
that can be lound. —Individuals from Eu
rope report, that if the leagued powers
against Frai.ce prove ftucefsful this cam
paign. America will soon be required to
accede to the general confederation.
A letter from a merchant in London (dated
May 1.) to his friend in New-York, has
the following paragraph.
"I find the situation of things at hom®
as well as abroad has brought Mr. Pitt to
lay very nearly as much as that he will
treat with the convention, or the men of
the day, if no better can be done. He is
so much frightened at the home situation
of things, that he will make terms witlx
France, and next packet \viil confirm to
you what I now write."
PROBATIONARY ODES
of Jonathan Pindar, Esq.
(Continued.)
O D E VI.
To MIDAS.
Jonathan entreateth Midas not to flarve the
nation : propofeth a project for pjying
off the national debt througti the in
strumentality of the S y of
the T y.
Sua fir tuna fabtr
Greedy Mid.is ! I've long fiitce been told
Whate'er yriu touch'd is lnftant turn'd
to gold j
Thine alchvmiftic fingers, prithee, flop,
Or thou'lt not leave us all a iingle fop.
Those fingers from thy birth have been
employ r d
With such ucli-tim'd precipitation.
That had thefacred coLege\\ tried,
Thou'dft beat them all at tra J\,bJlan~
ti at ion .
Briareus had an hundred hands, but thott
haft more,
Grafyingat oncethi spacious globe around r
One hand embraces the Chinefian Ihore »
Beyond Ohio's banks another's found.
Mountain's jnd rivers,rocks ztiCifugrtr trees.
Nankeens and China,green and B hca teas
Are inltant turn'd to gold whene'er you
please.
O spare. untouch''dj our codfijli, rice and
bacon,
Or else the continent must be forPa^Sn.
Midas, rrtuch fervicemight'ft thou do the
state,
Thy talents wert tholi Willing to exert ;
Relieve the people from a grievous weight
And give reward where there has beende
fert.
My project luay appear a ljttle hold ;
But sure I am, 'twill pay off honejt claims r
Touch Hamilton, and K.Nox,and Fish eil
Ames,
And turn the Speculators all to gold ;
Let Congress fend them ft rait way to the
mint,
They'll pay our debts—or else the 'devil
is in't.
|| The Vatican ; consisting of the Ppfe
Jnd his Cardinals.
Jonathan Pi'nhAr's compliments
:o John Fenno and his correfpoi.dent, the
Parody-Man—u iflietf them both a foul-re
frigerating Jmell of the Prpfident's kitchen
an or about the eleventh of Februaiy nexc
—Jonathan hereby (in due form) exculpat
?th the Editor of the National Gazette
from the horrid and damning charpe of
writing the Probationary Odes
For PORT AU PRINCE,
* The fact failing Ship
yflll BETSEY,
k l. E D READING, Master 5
jDURTHEN two hundred and fifteen tons: Sh«
has beenjuft hove down and is in comple;-
order. Has excellent accommodations for paf~
fengws,and will fail by the 15th of July next.For
freight or paflage appiy to the Caitain on board
or to Mr. John Dunkin, merchant, No. joe I
South Wacer-(lreet\
J une »?• 31POT and PEARL ASHES.
TO THE PUBLIC.
HAVING attended carefully to the
reluit ot several comparative experi
ments, which were made to ascertain the
nature and meri s of Samuel Hopkins pro
cess for manufacturing pearl allies or calci
i,id alkaline salts, we are of opinion, that
by his method wood aires may he made tc
yield a quantity of pearl allies of a very
fine- white colour, equal in weight an.:
ftreneth to the black or uncalcmed alka
line salts which are obtained by the ordi
nary method of leaching and boiling dewi:
the 1 lack leys, so that the manufadtuiei
who adopts this method, will probably
.rain all the weight which is 101 l by the or
dinary proc.fs of calcining, and m;:y efleCi
tie calcination in a much eaf.er manner.
We also examined a furnace erected accor
tjjng to the direaionsot Samuel Hopkins,
and were present during part of a process
which wa,~ co< du<fted in it and believe ii
to be so happily conllru&ed as to effect tlu
calrina ion'of wood alhes, and evaporate
the leys without more fuel than is used te
boil down the leys only by the commoi
method.
* David liittenhouje.
+ Benjamin liuju,
j James Hucbinfan-
Benjamin Say.
II Ca/pcr IViJhr,jun.
John Pcnington.
June 17, J"93*
In addition to the foregoing certificate
I conceive it proper 10 inform the public
in what refpe. my process differs from thi
uftial method, and to offer f..me direftiom
to such as may iucline to adopt it
lit. hi; jv i.cess confiiU in cacming
ccuimr.il Lotile or field allies » a farnaci
of a pecuiiar conduction lo contrived thai
the fame fire that boils down the leys cal
ernes the alV.es ; hence it appears there 1:
nor a greatei enfumption of wood in thu
new process than is necessary in the former
in biaining black salts, ano the a'hes fron
the wooc' so 'bo ing saved, which was be
f,, rt mu t;i ' ~ occasioned hy the ftronc
dratight r> ceffaty to keep the kettle:
baling- , , ,
2d I is 'ee.>mmended to such as m?j
adept this method, to pav particulai at
tent ion to the firll part of the pru.Ce s, viz
calcining the alhi s properly; for this being
carefully performed, the fubfrquent it<*p
become easy and i fs liable to fail.
3d. The alhes fnould be spread over th<
hearth of the turnace not more than on.
inch and anlialf thick, direst a lively blaz.
on them until they, beconv red hot, keep
ing them frequently stirred, and the dam
pers well cloieii.
4th In order that the workman ma)
know when his-afhea are fufficiently burr'
w ,til, he becomes enough perfect hi th<
bufmefs, from other circumtlances, a Imal
parcel may be taken out and put 111 aglaf:
with water, if the alhes fettle quickly aftei
stirring them, and the leys appear colour,
less, they ar<? fit for drawing into the all:
pit ; if ihey are calcined longer the quan
tity may he durtiHilhed.
eth. After the fires begin to burn, every
part of the furnace fhouid be kept as clole
as possible.the door of the ash pit and hearth,
and that for introducing the ashes cn the
he arth, Ihould be made to (hut complete,
for I have reaf 11 to believe a great draught
of air carries off much of the salts.
6th. Great cure Ihould be taken not tc
put more alhes into the furnace than I
have dirtfted above ; it has been found
b" experiments that when much more have
been put in, the faits are not so white not
the quantity so great. I believe it was
for want of attention to this circumstance
and allowing too great a draught of air,
that some who attempted my process have
not been so fuccefsful as was expeft^a.
7th. The alhes are drawn from the ail)
pit the next day ; after calcining and put
into leach tubs, the leys drawn from then
alter fettling ave boiled down, the fait:
kept well llirred in finifniiig off, until the)
become perfe&iy white.
* Prcfldcnt of the American Philofoph'ica
Society.
f t'rofeffor of the 'nftitution and Clinica
Medicine in the Unjvcrfity as Pennsylvania, for
erly Profeffor of hemiftry.
4 Profeffor of chemistry in th« University.
jl Adjunct ProfefTor of natomy, Surveyoi
gcc. in the University, formerly Proleffor of Chy.
miitry in the College
he other two whose names are without re
ferences, are phyiicians ol this city.
Bth. If the salts fliculj not become the
colour as is described in the fi:ft instance,
through an imperfect calcination,
'.hey may be dissolved, fettlid, and boiled
down again.
The advantage arising from this pro
cess may beconipnied under the following
heads.
ill. By calcining the allies before the
leys are drawn from tliem, we obtain as
threat a quantity at lead ot pearl alhes, as
of common black falts;pearl ashes general
ly fell when at market ?.t 501 per to-i :
the highest price for black salts is 251. per
'on, and if converted ir.to pearl alhes, it
requires as much more labour and fuel r.s
in the fir ft instance, and a loss from 25 to
30 per cent.
The foregoing observations are intend
ed for such as are or m;iy be engaged in the
manufadturing of pot and pearl ashes; they
will cafily underfland the terms 1 have
employed ; for the information of others
it may not be amils to explain, what 1*
meant by bUck salts, pot alhes and pearl
ashes.
2d. Black salts are made by boiling
down the leys from common wood ashes,
until they ore perfectly dry.
3d. Pot alhes are made by melting the
black salts in a very itrong fire, and lading
it out into coolers.
4th. Pearl alhes are made by putting
the bl ck salts into a furnace prepared for
I hat purpose, and throwing a llrong b.aze
on them ; this operati on is cal ed fcorch
i.'g; they are then dissolved in water, fet
tled and boiled down 'again, returned back
into the furnace and calcined until they
are fufficiently white: Pot ashes made
from calcined ashes are allowed to be much
superior to those made in the cominoti
mode
I expect the names and characters oi
molt of my fellow c.tizens that have sign
ed the foregoing certificate are well known;
they are allowed tobe well acquainted with
chemillry. A furnace was ere£led for
one of them, who kindly undertook to
make the neceflary comparative experi
ments, according to my directions ; the
result of which is-already let forth.
SAMUEL HOPKINS.
6th Mo. 22d, 1793.
I do certify, that I have crefkd a small
-furnace, in the suburbs of this city, op the
patent method, for the purpose of mi.nu-
L£turir,g pot and pearl ashes, which T find
to consume on an average no more than
one cord of wood per week ; two 1 ands
will calcine 20 bushels of ashes per'day,
and bale down the leys therefrom hi the
lame time, which if well calcined will pro
duce pearl ash the firft boiling. Ihe
are not so apt to boil over as those in the
common method. —The txpenfe of the
said furnace, excluflve of the boilers, did
not exceed ten pounds currency.
JOHN REELS'
Philadelphia, June 20, 1793-
CHARLESTON, (S. C.) Ma 7 17.
A gentleman on the South Fork 6' Sa
luda river, in a letter of the 23d uit. fends
his correspondent in this city tne following
defcripiion of an extraordinary animal
which has been lately discovered on the
Bald Mountain, and on other mountains
iu the Western Territory : —
This animal is between twelve and fifteen
feet high, and in shape refem'oling a lui
man being, exoept the head, which is in
equal proportion to its body, and draws in
iomewhat like a tarapin ; its feet is like
those of a negro, about two feet long, and
hairy, which is of a dark dun colour ; its
eyes are exceedingly large, and open and
(hut up and down its face ; the hair of its
head is about fix inches long, (lands itraight
like' a ueigroe's ; its nofc is like that of ti
human species, only large; and inclined to
what is called lloman.
These animjls are bold, and have lately
attempted to kill several persons—in which
attempts some of them have been (hot.
Their principal resort is on the Bald
Mountain, where they lie in w it for tra
vellers—but foine have been seen in this
part of the country The inhabitants of
this plac call it Yahoo : the Indians, how
ever, give it the name of Chickly-Cudly.
A FEIV COPIES OF THE
TRANSACTIONS
Of the Society infiituted in the State of
New-York, for the promotion of '
AGRICULTURE, ARTS, and MANU
FACTURES,
May be had at this Offici.
[Price half a dullAr.J
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.
June 1793*
D. H Burum. Tbcr. V/>7ld. JVeatber
Tuesday, iS. 6 73 N '- W. Fair.
7 88 do do.
iVidnrjdajt 19. 6 30, c 77 3, W Fair.
3 29. 9 r , 0' do.
■Tburjiiuy, 20. 6 -9. *5 79 S. w Fair.
329 75 S8 W. *7". C?«/?
i-riday, 21. 6 29. 7 75 C lou dy.
3 2Q. <; 85 r «i«-
Saturday, 22. 6 29.75 5S N. j£' ««jp,
3 29. S N- Fair.
Sunday, 23. b 29. 9 5& calm IFair.
3 29. c. 78 VV. (j */o.
Monday, 24. 6\ 30. »| 67 | o. jC/oa^,
3J 3°» 74
TO THE PUBLIC.
TITTHERE AS an attachment at the luit of Sam
" uel Imlay and Nathaniel Imlay, executors
of the testament and last will of Peter Imlay, de
ceased, has iliued out of tht Supreme Cour ol
Jcdica ure cf the state of New-Jerley, against the
lands of Garret Voorheis, lat<; of the county ol
Middlcfex, and state afore said, returnable to the
liilt Tusfday in September, seventeen hundret
and ninety.two ■■■ Notice is hereby given to the
said Garret Voorheis, that unless he appear anc
(ile special bail to the said action, judgmsni
will be entered against him, by default, and th<
lands so attached fold for the fatisfattion of fucb
of his creditors as (hall appear to be justly entitle*
co any demand thereon, and shall apply for tha
purptfe, according to the form of the statute 11
such cife made and provided.
By order of the Court,
April 17. law. jy HOWELL, Clk.
FOR SALE,
llnrtcen Hundred and Sixty Acre:
of excellent
Farming or Tobacco Lands,
LYiNG in the county of Amhe.rft, in thi
state of Virginia, on one of the principa
*nches of James River, within fix miles of th<
attet, from where it is navigable forboats of te/
ir twelve tons burthen.—BcJides the advantage
dF these lands, for the farmer or cultivator of to
Uacco, they are supposed, from a small thoug:
fuccefsful experiment, made by the late c®lone
Cliilwell, to contain an abundance of metals
which*, if not of a precious (as has been eve;
fuppoled) are certainly of a very valuabl" kin<l
The better, however, to ascertain this fa£t, am
.lact the purchaser on a fafefooting, in so haz
irdous a buiintf*, as all thole subterraneous te
parches, without the utrnoft certainty of ar
ibundance of the desired ore, is supposed to be
:very reasonable and nectfTarv afliftance or indul
jence will be rendered tiiofe inclined to make tin
ixperiflient, as well as every other neoeflary in
ormation given by the Editor of this gazette, ir
r'hiladelpiiia, or
JOHN NICHOLAS,
GhariottelviUe, Virginia
June 8, 1793* iawow
Harrijburgb Mail Stage.
STARTS ever) Wednciday from Mr. Henr
Epply's in race street, between third an
ourth streets, and arrives at Narrifburgh on t'n
Saturday morning following—Starts from Mr
innkeeper, fiarrifburgh, on Mond.i
uid arrives on Wednesday at Philadelphia.—
M. B. The Reading stage starts from Reading
it John Witman's, innkeeper, on Monday, am
arrives at Philadelphia on Tuefd2y morning—
Then starts from Philadelphia on Friday morn
ng at 4 o'clock, and arrives at Reading on Sa
;urd3y morning. The greatest care and
)n (hail be paid by the publics' humble fervaht.
WILLIAM COLEMAN.
N. B. A light stage upon l'prings, with twe
iorfes, or without horses, with complete geers
-nay be had at any moments' warning, for tht
iccommodation of ladies and gentl men, by ap
-lying to the above named Wm. Coleman, livin<
11 th? borough of Reading.
I Have claims to about two hundred anc
fifty thousand acre, of LANS? in the state ol
Kenfckey, ' n different parts of that country
fonie of which 1 know to be equal to any; al
of whe-h 1 am inclined to dispose of, either b;
rnt.re sale, or by admitting one, or two part.iers,
;o whom the agency on the whole will be com.
niitted.
One fourth of the contra£l will he required ir
hand, either in cafli, merchandif'e, or I'uch alien
as mav be converted to aflive use, the reiidui
may be apportioned in convenient inftalmeiUs
The purehafers to give fecuiity, on the lana,
or otherways.as suits them.
Knowing that there is a prejudice against th<
titles of lind in that state, which is more general
than just, 1 am willing to stipulate in the con
trait, that a discount, or dedoition, Ihall bf
made, where any land may be loft, by realon ol
dei'etiive title. '
Any peifon inclining to such a purchase, is re
quested to write to me by post, in answer tt
whom, more particular information will he given
HENRY BANKS.
Richmond M"»rch 10, 179 V 2av 'c
JUST PObi-iSHK L>,
And to befoid by THOM As D.obioN il
liam Young, Pv.obf.rt Campeeli.-
Mefli-s. Rice and Co. and John M'
Cui.loch, No. 1. North Thirc-ftreet,
A N EXAMINATION of the late pro
ceedings in Congress refpefling thi
official coaduft of the Secretary of the
Treasury; with Obfcrvations, &c. on tht
application of loans from Holl nd, negoti
ated under the ails of the 4th and 12th el
Augult 179 c. —The price of the above
pamphlet is three sixteenths of a dollar, or
is 41!. i-2. April 24. saw 6f
PRICE CURRENT.
Dollar-,. Cents.
(too Cents mmke 1 dollar.)
A.HES, pot per ton i2od/oi2sd
pearl ditto 134 d ft i4od
Bacon, flitches per lb Bto 9c
boulders do 7 e
Beet',' Bolton per barrel i2d
Country do 9df»iad
Beer, American in bottles
including bottles per doz. id 40c
ditto per barrel 4d 6ic
Bees wax per lb 26c 28c
Brandy, Coniaq.per gal coc 100 c
common do 80. to Bjc
Butter in kegs per lb joc 12c
Cheese, Country pe." lb 8c 13c
Englilh 19c
Chocolate iJ c '8c
Coal per bufliel 24c 33=
Codfifh per cwt 3d 530
Coffee per lb I4 C r 6c
Copperas per cwt 11L67C
Cordage, American per cwt yd 6:c 8d
Cotton per lb 26c 38c
Flax per lb nc 12c
Flaxfeed per bu(h. 90c
flour fuperfine per barrel td
common Sd 67c
Bur-middlings, fceft >d
Meal Indian per bbl. 3d 13c
Rye, do 3'' 33=
Gin, Holland per cafe 4d 6£c
- per gallon 80c 90c
Ginseng 2 ° c 2 4=
Gunpowder, Fine glazed per qr e 4<l
Grain, Barley per bnlhel id
Bert (helled per buflicl 2d 67c
Buckwheat per bufliel 10c
Indian corn 60c
Jersey, do 63c
Oats 35 c
Rye 6jC
Wheat 93c to idsac
Hams per lb 9cto 10c
Hemp, imported per ton i2od 14W67C
American per lb 4C 5=
Hides, raw per lb 9c nc
Hop; 2 fic
Honey per lb 7=7
Indigo, Carolina per lb id id aou
French id 20c id 67c
Iron, Bar per ton 8-' r d
Cartings per cwt 4d
Kail-rods per ton ioid 33=
pig 2411
Sheet 33=
Irons, fad 33=
Laid hogs per lb 9c joc
Leather, foal per lb 17= 20 =
Myr'lewax peril) 12c.
Molalies per gallon 44c 47c
Mustard, flour, in bot. per doz, id 20c
second quality, per doz. 87c
Nails, Sd icd iad and 2e'l per H>. ■ 10c
Oil. Linleed per gailou 66 c
Olive s 7 =
per cafe 50c
Pepper per lb 3®=
Pimento '9=
pitch per bbl id 73= 2tl
Porter per calk 5d 33=
London per doz id 60c
Amer. bot. intlu. ~ id 60c
Pork. Burlington, per b'ol I4 d 67c
Lower county 13d
Carolina 9"
Rice per cwt 3° 45=
Rum, Antigua per gal id
Barbadoes °-c
Country, N- E. 60c
Jamaica IC | l2 =
Saltpetre P?r cwt *4d 33c •
Salt, Allum, per bulh 33 c
Cadiz 2 5=
Lisbon 2 ' =
Liverpool 33°
Snakerooi per lb 20c 42c
Snuff, per doz. bot. 4d 5d fcoc
per lb 33 c 4°^
Soap, Brown per lb 6c
White 01 -
Slarch per lb _ 7=
Sugar, Havamiah, white, per lb 17c iac
Brown lICI2 =
Muscovado per cwt '-d
Lump per lb 2 4=
Loaf, (ingle refined, 24c
double ditto 33°
Tallow, refined, per lb 9=
Tar, New-Jersey 24 gal pet bbl id
Carolina, 32 gal 2d
Tea, Hyson per lb 93= T<l 2 °=
Souchong s oc 93=
Bohea . „ 33=36=
Tobacco. James River, belt
Interior
3 d 33c
Old 4d 67c
Rappahannock 3 C ' 33=
Coloured Maryland s^33°^
Dark 2<l 4°= ,
Long-leaf 2l ' 49=
Eaflern-lhore 2 d 2d «5 C
Carolkia, new 2d 703 d
Old 3d 33=
Terpentine per bbl 2d 33c
Wine, Madeira,'p. P. >7^
Lilbon iaodi26d
Teneriffe per gal 63c
Sherry 9 n = to Id 2 ° c
printed by
CHI LD S AND SWAINE.
11IC.It OFFICE NO. 109, HI r, H-5 H I*T»
),E» nrTH-imtn,
jaitioitfui*'