By P. FREN E A U : (at No. 209, Market Street) Publijhcd Wednesdays and. Saturdays, [Three Dollars per annum.']
Numb. 81 of Vol. ll.] WEDNESDA Y, Auguf!: 7, 1793.
from the Independent Chs,o
nicle, of July 25.
Ititerejling Gbfervations on Suing
the States.
r pHE question which now agitates the
]> 11 biit mind, is big with the wel
fare, peace and harmony of the Federal
Government in general, and of each State
and individual in particular". Itisaquef
tion which involves in it, the mofl inter
filing and alarming consequences, as it re
lates tu the Jnverc'gnty of tne Common
wealth, and the liberties and property of
every citizen :—For fliould it be admitted
that the States mny be J tied in the Federal
Judiciary, the numerous prosecutions that
wil immi d ately iflue from the various
claims of refugees, todies, &c. will intro
duce fi.ch a series of litigatidn, as will
throw every Hate in the union into the
greate;! cunt'u.ion. Our refeiument wbuid
be naturally excited, to fee cur Governor,
ami attorney general ctjnftantiy arraigned
bclo e the federal tribunal ; and we cotllci
not but feel an indignity while reading the
mandate, which COMMANDS and enjoins
them to attend on this bufi.iefs. Can auj
thina be ni >re wounding to the freemen of
Maifccliufetts, than the ltile of the ftun
m > ;s.' —It is couched in terms too humili
an to be here repeated. It might at
lea t !> ive carried in it a common decency
of The executive is " COM
MANDED" let the emergencies of tlife
Co n nj 1 wealth, be what they may, and
"laying 4iide ail other matters," to attend
at hij peril, on the claim of a William Vaf
fa.l. This "ORDER" is so percniptbry,
tliac nothing is to hinder him j and not
wi.hitanding the lilmitjoila is so urgent, it
rein lined from February to June, before
it was served. His excellency has now
nothing more Xo do, than hastily to attend
tithe Iriftifijj calls of'the commonwealth,
within the li iits of about fix weeks, and
then attend his important dutyat the fede
ral court, to anuver to the claims of sn
absentee.
Le'iflators of Maflachiifetts ! conltder
whether by adopting the conilitution, we
intended to place the commonwealth of
M tll'achufeits, in such a contemptible (ltu
ation I —We conjure ym, if the fovereigii
ty and dignity of the state mult fall, let
them expire with some degre ■ of deceacy,
and do not let the fiimmons of their dillo
lution, be couched in terms so pungent
ly humiliating.
The late atfion commenced agalnfl this
commonwealth, is founded upon the idea,
that the federal constitution, admits a:i in
dividual to sue a Hate. But in order to
ju.lgeon thisqueftion,as itrefpecis tile com
mon wealth, it is proper to take into conli
deration the debates in the state conventi
on, 0,1 this particular subject. Tne fenti
inents then delivered ought to liavetheir full
weight, even at this period ; as the princi
ples then advanced were undoubtedly the
opinions and intentions of " THE PEO
PLE." Admitting then that the judges
liave peremptorily decided, on the "liabi
lity'' of a date, tiiis date, if we are to con
clude from the deter nidations of the con
vention never acl ipted the constitution upon
any such acknowledgment; but 01 tne
contrary, all tie members expressly de
clared themselves oppoed to the principle.
If the decilion of the judges lias a tendency
to g ; ve an operation to the conltitutioit.
contrary to what the convention conceived,
the conifitntioii as miw explained, is 1101
the conilitution adopted by "THE PEO
PLE" of this commonwealth. It is pre
funied, that 110 advantage is to be taken 01
a subsequent conftruclion but that the de
clared intention of the convention ought
to have ftu h a decree of solemnity and force,
as to free'this slate from contending priii
tiples, which were in the firft inftancc
acknowledged both by the supporters aur
oppofers of the conilitution, a3 never beinj?
within its conltruftion. Every person thai
attended the debates, knows that this quel"
tion was agitated in the convention, a»<
that it was treated as a vilionary, antifedc
ral idea ; and that both parties nnittiall;
and cordially consented, that the "fuabili
iy" of the state was not contemplated b\
the framers of the constitution; that it
jiever could be exerc'sfed, and in fail coulc
never bear that conitruftion.
1 Ins being the determination of th,
whole convention, it was palled over with
out any oppolition. It was so umverfi h.
reprobated, that if any man had at tli
time conic forward with any degree of fe
rioufnefs, to vindicste contrary principles,
lie would li.ive become ail ohjefi. or univer
fa! ridicule.
A further proof that no such idea was
tnteitained by the convention is, that no
amendment was prdpofed on this article :
If there had been any doubt oji ihe fiibjett,
this would have been among the foremofl
ariiclet in the amendments; the total
lilence therefore, li.ows clearly that it
never entered into the ltiind of any man,
hat it liibuld ever take place.
These being the real fa.'h, can it be said
that the conftriitlion of the confeitution, as
giitnb) tHe juilges, i« a jult explanation,
■it relpeds ti <3 con,lll unvealtli ? Can ii
be argued that w c ought t.tc.tly to acquit Ice
in a decilion, so cbntrary to Uliatva una-
Nlr.loU.sUT acceded to in th& convention.
11l the common concerns of life, provide.:
the parties eipiefUy oliji ct to the lonilruc
tioji of a paragraph in any agreement pre
vious to signing of it, j'uftice would not
oblige them to comply with a decilion, dia
metrically contrary to the principles upoi'
.vhich the articles were originally fabri
eaten.
But it may be ohjecled that we are 1101
to fay what we meant at the time wt
adopted the conflituticn, but we mult sub
mit to the conilruction now put upon it b)
tile judge.. This kind of reasoning may do,
among a frt of lliarpers, negociator;, 01
hank-scrip speculators, who are ever plot
ting to impose Oil each other; but whet
ue are to ifulering a fubjeft on which the
liberty, harmony, and prosperity of a com.
muility depends, it is expected that othei
lentittients will operate ill the decilion. Ii
cannot be fuppoltd that the conftitutioi
wu.: offered, to entrap "The people," 01
surprise them into a measure wiiich the)
never contemplyred ; or th.it the fupport
rrs ot the conflitutioii, conceded to the. 1 op
pofers ol it, merely to take an advantage 0;
their credulity. When the objeflion wa;
made, tilt fir ft Characters (even learned ii
the law) pledged themfeives, that the ides
<vas erroneous, and that o profecutioii o!
a llate eVer could commence 011 the prill
ciple bf its own SOVEREIGN i"Y. Aftei
these folenin aflieveratiorts, is it a fair mode
of re foiling, to fay that we have adop.ee
it with all its impcrfeftions, and it u taw
too late to remedy our complaint ?
Nn freeman w ill be fati. si! d with fuel
paltry arguments. Maflachufetts Itantl:
too respectable in the federal lyitem, to bt
tllrouil from its elevated tilu tio.i by fu 1
ti iftnlg r atoning. She will not bedeprivet
ol ie.' foverelgr.ty, and reduced to the cO.i
tcmptible date of a parWll corporation, by
any'advantages th.it may be taken bj con
(IriKiions, contrary to what they tlieln
(elves meant lliould be fiib.tjiniaieti. Ari
we to fuffer th« commonwealth, togethei
with the property of every individual, u
become thefupport of every litigious pet
tifogger ; and admit our Sl'Pki? .ME Y X
ECUIIVE, to be perpetually harr.dfct
with innumerable prosecutions in the fede
ral court, by admitting a conflruclion, 11
direct opposition to what • 'THE PEOPLE'
by their reprefentatlves, openly, and ex
prefsly declared againlt ? Every freemai
nlult reply—we will not lore our liber
ties in so ignominious a manner.
Thi tieclaration made by each meiiibei
bf the general court is, "That the com
monwealtli of Maffachufctts is, and oi
right ought to be, a fret, Joverefgn, ant
iudfptuitnt Oate." We then retain 0111
lovereignty completely excepting so lv.net
as is given up to Congress. To ufcertaii
the degree of sovereignty \ve retain, we
mult examine what particular powers art
exclulively given to Congress ; and so fai
s the states are eXpressly left rifled, so far
aid no farther have we relinquilhed oui
fovereignry. Suppose then (for arguijien
fake) it is admitted, th t an individual cai
fne a slate, it cannot be in any other cast
than where the United States have an ex
cl 11 live riplit of judging.
For example, each state i . forbid by tin
co.ftitutien " from toini: g r one) ; n " t
mining bills of credit •• piling ex poi.
I do laws. &c.—Should a state j reftime t<
pay a creditor U a paper currency, of it
own ifiVling, or prfs an 1 x po!) law, ii
■ill ftlch cases the i idivrdual has hi- renicdv
II the federal j.idiciary.
Ei en attainting the fnsbility of a slate.
•lie fpl cre of it. jtlrifdidion, appears ton
li lt d to uch cases as rhe several Hates art
expivfily reftric:ed to by the conftktitioti; &
t.iis diflinflion determines ths txaft titiun
um of fove'-eignty relinquiii.ed, and foi n:
i prec fe bounelaiy, hew far the light of
m individual extend in a iiatc
before the federal judiciary.
T his construction is much more reason
able, tlian to fiibject a (late to be fueil in
discriminately in all cases ; ami to oblige
Jie executive to obey the fmnmonsofa
marlhilto the exclusion of all the duties of
his office ; and to render the commander in
chief of every slate a mere itinerant, to
dance attendance in Federal courts, to an
swer every trifling action that ißay be
brought by litigious profecutort.
it the ltate is subject to fiich prafecutions
in jll cases, it is the highest absurdity to
talk of our fovereigtity : for if this is ad
mitted, there is not a (ingle trait remaining.
If ue surrender ourselves Into the Federal
court, "in all cases whatever," it is but
little (hort of the British claim, 11 to tax Us
in all cases whatever," and will, in time,
operate as d.-ftructive to the RIGHTS ami
PROPERTY of the people. If this is ad
mitted in the latitude now pleaded for, it
is an impolition on our senses, 10 talk ofour
I >vereignty ; tor a nation ftirrenders its fc
vt reignty, ds far as it relinquiflies the right
of final judgment—and if in all cases, we
have done it, v\e have made by the adop
tion of the conllitutionj 9 complete sur
render of it to the federal judiciary ; as the
power of fin.il decilion is the eflence of so
\i re.gnty. Wherever thisdecifion is pla
ced, there the sovereignty mult be found.
But admitting (till, (lor argument fake)
that the constitution does allow an indivi
dual ;o Hie a (late, in all cases, it will not
follow that he can in those cases that origi
nated between him and the (tare previous
Lo the adoption of the conditlitlon—For
'he words are, '• that the judiciary power
iliall extend to all cases in law and equity,
ii iliiig under this conditution."—Admitting
tien, that an individual may sue a state, it
limit lie only in fhch inltances, as took place
after the adoption of the tonditution ; for
tins i in - period when the dates entered
into th:s po.itie.al fituatiou. fto rational
.nun can (u.-p ife, that the llates have made
thep'felves li. ble to anfvyt r be fore the Fe
deral .1 oi.i t, for tranfnetions they did, be
lore th-'j- h «♦ fui'rt • de-red this right.—
Provided this is the extent of the federal
:i;liln. 1 door is opened for proi'ecutions,
t '<m he ririt land iijj of our forefathers at
Plymouth, to tht prcfent day. Unless we
ix file point of time when the state became
fuabte," the lie rsof Sir Edmund Androjs
iiaie equally as good a claim upon this state
as the lieir »f William Vajfall.
I have in the foregoing remarks endea
fouieti to state the fehtiments of the state
convention 011 this question ; to draw a
ililtinc'tiou between the sovereignty retained
and reli'iqtiillied ; what actions are cogniz
able Before the federal judiciary: and
whether a state can be sued lor any tranf
actioi.s previous to the adoption of the con
ttitlitiou. The fubjeft is new, but of infi
nite importance to ih"e rights and property
.it every individual citizen, lor ftiould we
cquirfce in the decilioli, or take no itiea
lures to check its pregiefs, the boalled
berties of our country, which 1 ave colt so
mueii blood and trealnl eto preserve, will
jecome a "SOIND, AND NOl HIKG
LiSh."
A REPUBLICAN;
From the NF.w-Yoßk DIaRY.
| HAVE read with . t'ention the Various
sentiments that have been promulgated
through tke channel of newspapers, re-
Ipe-fting the Proclamation fii ft Iffiittl by the
President of the United States, declaring
the dilpofitibli of United America as 10 the
pou ers now at war. and having lately paf
ed f dm Philadelphia through this capital,
.aye haul an bpportunity of collecting the
n 'midns of men < f abil ty in both, .011 this
itereili.ig queltion. Ths reTult of iny re
lieitions. upon mature deliberation, with
that confidence which every freeman ouj.'ht
. cel. I (hail now submit to the conflde
ation of him who is 1110 ft iiiterefted 1:1 the
enquiry.
I lie Prelident when he ilfues a procla
mation, does it in virtue of Use powers
given to him by the constitution, the w'oi ds
of which are, " he (hall take care that the
lav. e (hall be faithfully executed." Being
> her. but the mouth piece of the law, it wus
that and that only, to which the proc'ama
rio 1 (liould have adverted ; a reference to
exidir.g treaties and a recommendation to
the people of the United States ftrifllv to
obf. I've them, vduid have been a uiore
consonant exercise of those powers with
which he is iilvelled, than any declaration
e f w hat he might conceive to be the difpo
litioa cf the j,
[Total Numb. 185.]
That man who is at the helm of date,
that will fee with his own eyes and govern
himfelf, may be truly ("aid, to be the lite
and ("oiil oj a ttate. While he who trulls
to the integrity,and abilities of thole around
iii'» i aild flitters himlelt tw be governed
by fucli as have gained an ascendency over
him, will ever be liable to deception and
inipolition. It is eal'y to judge of the ge
ii, us and capacity ot him who serves us ; but
it is almoll impofiible to do the fame of his
fidelity and dilintereHudnefi.
The impreflions of the moment produced
the tneafure, which 011 mature i cHeciion I
am Cure he mull condemn.
If the proclamation had not been ptiblllhed
would the people of America have mifcon-
Itrued the treaty, (or in other words the
law.) Has it thrown any light upon it, by
which they may dif'cern its mealing ? Shall
it in rtfell be considered as the law ? Will
t not give offence to those who are in alli
mce with us ? Is it not indirectly rtcom
nending mealures for our prolperity to be
mi Tued at tlie expence of our integrity ?
3j«l ihotild wei:i future Ita d in need of
lid to oppose the fuppieflibn of our infant
:ree of liberty in this' its only affyluin, by
he combination of tyrants, w ill we not
je looked upon as perfidious i*, not com-
Jlying with our treaties, and be treated
with licorn ? Let him answer, who gave it
ts exillence.
Some are of opinion that the republic of
France \\ill becruflied by the weight of the
xnvcrs oppofcd to her—l am not. If
France does not suCceed, it will be owing
o her intestine divisions. '1 Tieir cotrimo'n
lungers will, I iruft, produce an unity of
entimeiit. Thtir population is too great
0 admit the idea of a fubjeilion by foreign
orce.—And the ltrtngth ol their country,
lided by genius and art, renders them per-
Vflly fee tire from foreign foes.—From Bra
jant to D.iiiphine is a doirble chain of re
ionbts— And the frontiers r.ext to Cerma
ly, l.ys the great Frederick i fPruflia, re
emb.e the jawsofa lion Willi tuodread
ul rows of teeth ready open to dc\ our any
nvuder.
But adhlit for the moment that (lie trtav
je conquered—What will our Uriel ntu
:rality then avail us?— Great Britain will
ae among the caucjuerbrs—Will ll.e haic nd
:laim upon the combined powers lVr the
lid and fuppbrt Ihe hasgiVtn iii the fubju
jatlon of that colintry—Ami v. ill tiifey not
je willing in their turn; to root tip that
Sitter weed which this Toil firll nurtured,
md i.ow vigorously supports ? Ves : And
he will with a too w ell grounded coi.fi
deilce, declare to them, that in the bowels
iif this very country they will find a the; r
-111 and willing fnpport, by a numerous hi It
as her devoted minians, toaffilt them in the
work. Should t prt>je£t be purlued, Will
not that irresolute declaration of netitr.il
t}', to avoid a p relent intoatenieuce, v/or!*
our ruin?
I do not wilh that this country liiouid a
jain be involved in war; to be neutral is
Dili* bell interest: This interell may be
au: fried without a violation of our treaty,
ot a charge of ingratitude.- Nay, by the
Law of nations we may Ihew to our allies
md friends, that we feel for, arid will ait(
and a did them as brethren in danger anil
liltrefs, without the powers at war having
1 right to take offence at it. It isfuppofed
3y lortie, that he who aflitls (=ithi.t* of the
lowers at war, with money, triii.ps- or in
.my other manner, becomes the enemy of
:he Oppoling power, and tint fitch conduct
jives the oppolirig power a right to nial;«
war ngainlt him. Such 3 fiippofition is.
:ruel, and destructive of the tranquility of
nations. It cannot be supported b> prin
-iple, and the praftite of nations is diieftly
.he reverse. If by a treaty, concluded at
i time when there was no w. r fiibtifiing
i.etween the now contending powers, or
preparation making for olie, cc 11: ill privi
■ eges have been ftipulatcd to be granted oil
ihe pari of this country to France; neither
»f the other powers can j-t c;itire that we
lliould negledt to fulfill our iolemn feugage
mcnts, which we had in unqueflionable
right to conclude without any iijiiry t«
either. It is p iving a debt; we do them
.10 wrong in discharging it; and consequent
ly gue them 110 jull caul'e of lompl-im.
Such alliltance is now not looked bti t:s art
aet ofhoUility.il extei dtd even to i!;c j cr
luiflion of railing Volunteers. How bften
las Switzerland gr; nted levied to France;
at the fame tin e ihe such an indul
gence to the Hotife oi' Anftria, though both
lowers were in alliartet- with her—row
jften has file allowed thefn to one Pi nice
and denied them ;o his enemy, when ia 1;9SaHianre with either—She granted or denied
Them as she judged expedient to heifelf,
and (lie never has been attacked o.i that
account.
Let us then di(charge that debt of grati
tude which we 6we to our brethren of
France, with faithfulnefs and integrity—
Always remembering, that while we art
true to thole who have a just claim to owr
favour, we may expefr ever to receives
grateful return, let what will be their con
dition. A viitory is seldom so complete
that it enables the conqueror to lay alide all
refpeft bi.th for decency and judice. But
if they with whom you are allied are word
ed, they will ftili continue firm to you, and
afiiltyou upon occasion, if in their power.
— ■ . ———
Foreign Advices.
o
ofiend, June i. —A column of jood
French troops arrived before Furnes about
seven o'clock yederday morning ; the gar
rifbn, computed of near twelve thousand
Dutch, opposed them very bravely for four
hours. They had only three pieces of can
non, three pounders, whiHVihe French h:rd
more than twelve eight pounders ift this
a£tinn. The lofTes of the Freni h are un
known. The Dutch, after having had (ix
men killed, and ten wounded, were obli
ged to retreat, which thoy effected in good
order, and arrived here this evening with
their cannon and baggage. The French,
after having plundered the principal inha
bitants, left Furnes a! ten o'clock la ft night
taking with them the Bailiff, Burgomas
ter, and five nr lgiltrates, as holtages for the
contributions, which they dem mdetl in
cattle, corn.&c. The Dutch, having bien
inlormed of their retreat, returned thither :
this afternoon ; and intelligence is tince |
received that a number of Germ sn troops j
have arrived at Funics from Ypres and'
Coitrtray.
The transports with the Britifli dragoons
arrived here the day before yc fterday ; and
upon receiving the above intelligence, were i
perfectly ready in less than an hour to pro- .
cecd on reconnoitring parties.
Boienkeim, May 21. —On the 13th infb
tife rtihianced polls of the French were re
pfilled from B'iefcadel by Colonel Sockul.
Whilftthe advanced polts were thus en-i
gaged, Moj-fieur Houchard endeavoured I
with 26.000 infantry and ii considerable J
co: ps of cavalry, to turn Prince Hohenloe's i
camp nrar Honiburg, and to take poffeEen
of the mportant poiition ofliayferlauteiii;
but Prince Hoheuloe, having received in
timation. of that intention, quitted Horn
l>urg, and returned with ths greatest expe
dition toKayferlatttein, where lie arrived
only half an hour before the French army,
and ttitti fcciired that p.ifitiffiij. The emm
try ctDeuxPonts, Honiburg, and Caltberg
is consequently again abandoned ; and the
1%-euch, upon taking pofT-lßon of the feve
j at towns deserted by the Prufmins, com
mitted great devallations.
Manheim, May 25. —The forrnal siege
of Mentz will commence in about ten days
lience. The batteries of the allies are al
ready so near it, as to be able to reach it
with twelve pounders. The besiegers are
daily reinforced ; and the Anfpaches, Pa
latines, and other troops of the Circle, are
just arrived.
London, June 8- —Last night Mr. M:-jor
one of the king's mefl'engers, arrived cx-i
jirefs from the Head Quarters of his Roy- |
al Highness the Puke «.t York. The dis
patches are dated the 4th in the evening.
The siege of Valenciennes had not then
commenced, as had been intended.
By letters from Oder.d we learn, that
the Hereditary Prince of Orange, at the
bead of 1 3,000 men, with 60 pieces of ar
tillery, was about to make an attack upon
Gevel, a French poll in the neighbourhood
of Dunkirk.
Letters from Oftetrd fay, that in a Paris
paper, the Moniteur of the 31 (t tilt, it is
ilated, chat on the 26th ult. Gallon at the
head of the Breton Royalists, had gained a
very decided advantage over the Republi
cans in the neighbourhood of Fontenay,
in consequence of which it was apprehen
ded that R< chelle mult fall into the hands
of the former.
Wednesday there was a numerous
meeting of noblemen and gentlemen, at
the Crown and Anchor tavern, to take in
to confederation the long and faithful ser
vices of Mr. Fox, and to devise the means
of recompensing in some measure, the ef
fennal services he has rendered h'rs country.
Mr. Serjeant Adair was cafiei} to she
chair, several resolutions were entered
into, and the meeting adjourned to a fu
ture day.
On Thursday morning, the inhabitants
ofHythe were alarmed by the drum beat
ing to arms, in consequence of a privateer
being discovered close in land ; several pie
ces of artillery were immediately drawn
down to the (hore, and a number ot ihot
firc-d, on which (he (heered ofl. A person
on fiiore was wounded by a (hot from the
privateer.
Cork, May 29.—The brig Mercury, of
Whitehaven, failed 1 Monday from
this port for the Weft Indies, was captur
ed the fame night, a little weft of Cape
Clear by a cutter privateer of ten gun . be
longingto Bred. Said privateer had also
captured a (l ip frcm Iklfift for the Wcft
.'ndies, a sloop ftcra Dingle laden with
barley for COl k, and another veffcl. The
crews of the three veifels w ere put on shore
at the Caps'.
On Monday last about sun-set, three (hips
of war, conlilling of two frigates and a
cutter, were descried off tlifc mouth of the
harbour from one i-f the batteries, which
the mariners there, declared to be French.
June 2. — The lift advices from the com
bined armies leave them befo re Valenci
ennes, and are of the 27th. iNo.hing ma
terial has happened (ince the 23d, nor had
the (iege then commenced in form. Some
([lots had been expended, but the regular
(iege was not txpeded to be; 1 in till the
20th; in the interim the n:oft vigorous
preparations were making The next ad
vices will probably bring an account of the
fall of this place.
Tiie citadel of Valetlciernesis of flrengtb
to relist a formidable army tor month?
even after the city has surrendered, and
the approaches to it are undermined ii
every direftioif.
11l August last when Dumotirier held the
command at Maulde. he went to infpefl
this fortref, 011 which an attack was
day expe£t:d from the Auflrians. The
tomiuandant, Marefthal Ferrand, aitioflgfl.
other proofs of preparation, blew tip more
"than forty feet fqttare of furface, Et the
tlidance of a mile from the citadel.
The French in a late aftinn, are fa id to
have had 1000 men killed on the spot; 400
privates, one general, twe fierit. colonel,
one major, five captains, and seven lieute
nahts, wei e taken pi ifoners.
The French executive courtcil has order
ed a number of xabnoti to be sent from
Douay to Paris, in order to place that city
in the bell possible Rate of defence fhouki
the counter revolutionffts paf> the Loire-
June 8. Count d' Artois is fairl to havs
pafled from Hull by find to Fatmdtith,
from whence lie took fhkiping to Spain,
and returns to France \ia I'yrennees at
the head of the Spani/li and emigrant
armies. It is reported he visited the firft
perfohage in the metropolis.
Lenfcrs received from Flanders give us
very (1 rong reason to believe that Conde
and Va'enciennes will soon fall to the
combined armies. The former place was
to hr attacked in form 011 the 1 7ill instant:
and being a kind of a key to Valenciennes,
the latter cannot in that cafe long hold out.
AH the necessary artillery belonging to the
Aaftriatis is now arrived at their head
quarters.
It is very generally believed that the
combined armies will not attack Lille, hut
that after tiie capture of Conde and Valen
ciennes, they will move towards France,
leaving Lisle behind them, and an army of
obfervution to watch the motions of its gar -
rifou.
l.etters from Madrid ailvife, that all the
Englifli merchant fliips that had been re
captured by the Spaniards in the Mediter
ranean, &c. to the amount of 300,000!, are
ordered to remain in the Spanilh ports till
the fate of the St. Jago Remitter (hip has
been finally determined in England.
For the National Gazette.
[From a ]
1. "WIIf N an Attorney General is
brought forward, in an extra-official man
ner, to ' profane the facrcd h.dl of justice,'
with a political declamation, calculated to
alarm the fears of a jury, and to fnbllitute
political expediency lor jujlice and the taw
of tkt land; when the bench, instead of
prohibiting filch an unwarrantable pro
ceeding, not only listen to the declaiming
orator with pricked up ears, but after
wards addr.efs the jyry in terms equally
indecent and arbitrary, telling them, that
if they do not pronounce a fellow citizen
guilty, they are instrumental in plungiug
their country into ail .the horrors of war ;
in fine, when the mod alarming measures
are adopted, to ftifle the calls of justice,
and to intimidate an American jury into a
verdict consonant with the wid.es of a
court-party, or Britilh faction, it is high
time for the virtuous citizens of America
to be aroused to a sense of tiie daggers with
which one of their cleared privileges, that
of impartial trial by jury, is openly me
naced. In the indance alluded to, an in
dependent jury have firmly w ithdood the
violence of that ariltocratic torrent, whole
duices were opened upon tbcin ; they have
set hounds to the declamation of an attor
ney general, and to the sophisticated plead
ings (for pleadings they were) of an arbi
trary judge ; " thus far (hall your ratings
go, but no farther. 1 ' But, it is to be fear
ed, that further efforts w ill yet be made to
eftablilh tiie infamous dottrine, that Ame
rican citizens, (like feme European jub
je(ls) are /laves, attached to the foil 1 and
cannot, w ithoui leave from their 'matters,'
enter into the service of I ranee, or of any
other foreign power. Should the attempt
again be made. I trlift my fellow citizens
will repel it, 3s has already been done, with
the spirit of men who know the value oi
their privileges, and are determined to
guard them, with that patriotic jealoufv,
which ought ever to characterize the citi
zens of a iree country.
2. ' It is worthy of remark, that altho'
more than three months k-ne elapsed f nee
the PrefitKjit'» proclamation was liTue;! ;
and altlio' every governmental nerve has
bee n'ftraioed to induce the merchants of
America (who are, more thnn any o.her
class of citizens, friends to Great Britain)
to figuify tlleir approbation of the rata
lure; yet the number of those who have
'xpreffed that approbation, is compara
tively trifling. In Bcifton, before any vote
couid be carried, respecting the neutrality
declared by the proclamation, it wasfound
neceflary to premise a declaration, in which
the sacred obligation of our treaties w;u
fully recognized. And even then, the
meeting went 110 further than to express a
disapprobation of American citizens being
owners of privateers, employed to cruile
againlf any of the belligerent powers.—
1 hey, it seems, do not conceive i. a crime
in an American citizen t" enter into fo
reign ferriee ; else it is not likely that they
would have been lilent on a lubjec't of so
much importance."
3- Why are the devotees of a certain
party so arixioUs to hiive tne proclamation
echoed by every mercantile town in the
I Um:ed States ? Is it that ihe approbation
of a tew merchants may be fubUituted lor
the fan£li»>i of the American people, to
give fbme kind of force to a pusy inftru
| ment, which, in itfe-lf, is as totally devoid
of authority, as it is unauthorized by law ?
If, mllead oi convening Congress, tuis new
species of representation and legislation is
to be imputed upon us, would it not be
ecjuitble, rhat the agricultural interell
iiioul'l have a vo'ce in the business, as well
ls the mercantile i Surelv, if one c/a/j
ot citizens express their opinion, it is not
only proper, but necellary, that the opimoi]
ol ali Ihould be known. To eifect this de
sirable end, let meetings of the citizens be
immediately had, in convenient d.drifts,
•throughout the United States ; and let tne
general voice of America determine, as to
tne propriety of those measures, winch
have cither been enjuirted, or connived at,
by the executive, during theiall three or
four months.!
AbJlraCl cf Foreign Intelligence.
Several Danifli vefi-eis have Iwen taker,
and earned i,.t.-> different ports ol England
with French property on board. Tile r.n
glilh court has offered to pay the freight,
but the Danilh smibaiTador intitled o«i a
complete indemnification.—The hereditat)
prince ol the Palatine of the Rhine was ve
ry near being Blade prisoner by the French
011 the 14th of May, in the neighbourhood
of Newkirchen. They plttnrit red his pa -
lace «t its contents, and carried off tee
hereditary princess, and all the ladies of the
court, with the counsellors of the regeti
ey and finances. They took polielHo.i of
Newkirchen, and still occupii d it when
these accjunts came away. Lord Hood's
fleet was looked t or daiiy at Naples about
the middle or latter end of May, to
be joined by the Spanish fleet then cruising
off Genoa. It was tlrought cbeir united
force would be directed againtt Coriic;.,
or perhaps Toulon, or Marseilles- A large
body of infurgentsin Normandy had been
defeated by the troops ol the French repu
blic near port St. Pierre. In confequenee
cf this defeat, the communication wa» a
gain opened along that part of the coalt.
1 he army dcllined to quell the insurgent'
■ n the dittrict ot the Loire and Ytndee,
confided of Bo,oco men, commanded by
generals Biron and Canclaux. "J he gene
ral of the Alpine army had defeated a body
ol 2000 rebels, collected above
and completely dispersed them. 'I he liej;e
ot Valenciennes was an object of impor
tant expectation to the combined powers
the duke of irk was appointed to com
mand the siege, and the necellary troops
are railing againlt the town. TheFieiuh
had thrown 10, goo frefh men into it, and
were determined not to fnrrender it while
a gun remained mounted. Conde had been
summoned for the lalt time. O.n the 2iff
ot May one of the armies of the combina
tion, to the number of 80, coo men , com
manded by princes Cob;:rg & Hohenloi, lay
within eight miles of Famars, v\heie the
French,to th£ amount of ico,occ men were
flrongiy entrenchtd, and dcleudeii by va
rious batteries of heavy artillery. On tii
nightot tie 22d, a further movement ot the
allied forces took place, who poflcfied
themfeUes of dliferent Itations ard politi
ons near f amars. On the 23d at day-break
the prince of Coboui g':> advanced gua.ci
attacked the advanced camp o! the Frti.ch,
took two redoubts, seven cannon, and kil
led and took a number ol men, atier a
most cbftinate rtfiftauce. The battle con
tinned with impetuolity the whole day,
during which sixteen pieces cf cannon were
taken from the French. At nine in the
evening the French camp v as force*!, ami
at five 111 the morning the last redoubt car
ried, fwv»rd in hand, when the I'rench re
treated to Valenciennes and boucliain. It
was l iid the French loft in the whole, 30
pieces ot artillery, fcveral of laigeboi t .
On the 24th the entrenchments of mount I
Aufin w ere carried, which it was tliongln |
would greatly facilitate thecapture of \ a !
lencie lines and Condc. (Thisi s a Imortab \
ltrafl: of the Aullriau account of ai \
fait s-i
I A motion« as made in ihe Kat : < r.r' Core
veutii'jL] on tile ,th of A 1; \, lor ex chapp
ing all the remains of the loyal f i: ilv ■ iJ"
L 1 ance, now pi«'u ii f r n the iem pie, j"
the four commiffiuners, betrayctl by Vu
mourier.
The army of prince Cobourg consists at
prefc lit of 3.5,c00 men :at the commtntje
.mrnt of the campaign it was ellimated . c
So.coo men. It is ft ppofed that this i m
paign alone lias already carried of}', on the
pare of the whole belligerent powers,
uo.oco men. Bin thi is noc'iit jj to what
mult follow,before France can be f'ubdned.
when we conlider tlie great nuni6ti of
fortified towns that nnift be t Won befeie
the c rebuil d armies can take a (ingle it p. >
int< the 1* rend) territories. /
1 ii. Spr.n ih army on the French frontier
i»ii ieftetl with an epidemic difdrder, and
great numbers of them have died of the
campfever. This has retarded their attack
upon France, and in the mean time the
French have collected an armv to oppol'e
them, i'.onkl they attempt to pass the
boundary line oi the frontier.
PHILADELPHIA.
Wednesday, Angujl 7.
The following is a Jilt of the French pri
vateers now certainly known to be 011 our
coait, exclu(i\eof the Republican,of l&gims
and jo met) taken 08 Sandy Hook by the
Bolton (owing to thefalle or mitiaken in
formation of a pilot,who declared lit r to be
the French frigate Concorde) —viz. The
Jacobin, iz gun* 60 men—The Anti-
George, 12 guns,6o men—The Conqueror
of the Baftile, to guns, co men—TheCa
magnol, 14 guns, too men—The Line
Democrat, it guns, uopjtn —TheCitiv a
e let, 16 guns, 120 men—The Friend of
the Law, g guns, 40 men—The Sans ( 1. -
lottes Schooner, 10 guns, 50 men—The
Sans,-Culottes, Xebeque; 12 guns, 100 men
— The San pateil, 16 guns, 5.0 men—The
Impromptu 8 guns, 4omen —The Orlando
Furrofo, 13 guns, -o iiien—The National
Razor, 14 guns, 16© men.
It is mentioned in letters by the last packet
from Falmouth, that '.be F.nglifh parlia
meftt Ufculd be prorogued about the 13th
f June, The ear! of Cnrlifie is to be ap
pointed secretary of state for the home de
partment, in the ioc;n of Henry Dun
d<s®. H'qr.
The lume of tire 22 gun French fiiip « f
''ar, now in this port, is La Hnrmandt.
1 hat of the 40 gun lliip, La Precieufe.
The latter isfvil down towards the Cove.
Extrail of a letter from K.:-:gf}on (Jamaica)
June 23,
"Yeftcrdny failed from Bluefiffld', the
homeward bound fleet. accompanied by a.
very weak convoy. This i*. the lai geft and
richest fleet of merchantmen ever ciifpatch
ed from this ifiand : the vefTels belonging to
! this town only are valued at four million*
Sterling. There Was a meeting a few days
ag« of the inhabitants, to petition the go
vernor for the admiflion oj provilions in
American bottoms, or a famine mutt be the
inevitable conirqtience", lor. on the molt
mill it e invefi igat 1011, there are no nrovifiou%
111 town for a ortrights ftipplv, whr>c
with the numerous inhabitants, ihe soldie
ry, navy, vast number of Frenchprifoner«,
thirty c.'d fail t»f Guineimen in the turbo:-,,
and a valt number of Spanilh veii'els to
implied, yon will natura.ly conclude the
coufun ptf&n to be very great."
The British governor of St. Vincent-;
has 1 tilled a proclamation, dated June ?i',
declaring the extremefcarcity of provisions
in that illand, the probability of fpeedyr
famine; and giving pariuifiion tu the i. .si
importation ot provilions iuto the ifiand or
40 days from that date. Ihe pe.miflion
extends to ail \ellels except those under
Fi ench national colours, 01 belonging tt»
persons adhering l* that caofe.
Letter of advice from the France
to the crews of the two i re'. lH Jiupf of
xuar now in the port of Pht/adcipnitu dat
ed Ait gut i 3.
"The French citizens of the Nrrmnvdc
and hicetje are now among theii good
triends the Americans: it is, therefore,
their duty to piove to these jcod allies,
that the Fietuh patriots are worthy «V
"their efleem. They w.h tind among them
cordiality and attachment; and will,,
dt twtlefs, themselves behave with deceit
cy and politencfs.
I The patriotic sailors ought to He tipr.n
their guard ; because in this town they are
Lonllantiy li«.ble to be enfuared.
There is t.t Philadelphia a gr'-; t mini-
Iber of French, unworthy of the name:
enemies of their country, who will acro!t
and caress them to lead them al-ray. "1 hey
(iiould. tireielore, be always ready to repti
[ tbe peifidiotts inlamatioai, which will oe
mace to them.
it the French sailors are infuked, or
provoked, onto: reipefl to the .American
litizens, who are aiv> ays ready to appear
1.1 their defence, they oi.ght to -vi id rcpel
ling force by 1( rce , ai.d to be confident
that their officers, ar.d thenitnititr 01 tbe
| > reiivti jrcj-uotK, wiii «buiu juliite lur
I UiL'art«Ct'z-n - t will alvr/s take ple.-ifu *e
in , , - i .he f i'ilar;, friejdly to th„-
Freich i>", of every thing which ap
!11 ng, either relative to the
coil .to , ' themselves."
\li Frencn fadors, and fri'-n-.U to libertj
in 't--.ie.-n, wuo with to cute i ito the nayj
ten iae of t'ra ice o 1 board the to ■■o frigate
uov i l tliis a.irbor, are .vaulted l-iaoji)
itßiii.-ili itely to the cmfui ot the t'' elCi
republic a; No. 13;, N-.th Scco.-.cl Rieet.
O i Fii lay la I ir.-:ved at New York i'k
Fr'e i h .1- t, la'-1 f.'or.i the Chefapeak.?
c xi i [i 1-* if L'E de, a 74. the Jupiter ot 7.-.
t>i is uvj frigate . a il 12 ot!:er ships.
T iey cam -to ai)«fior off tile battery, fired
a f.il'.r.o of 1; 511 :u, which wj» an.weieu
Iron the battery.
We hear from Baltimore tv. it captair
Barney worked his Hup iioine from t.ie
J.Ve t Inili " . with the hand- put 011 bo in!
him by a Providence privateer. Th f.
co ,ii ie of three prize nutter* and eight
I'. I a.-ii. c : n Barney's cr w Incl b?en
all taken out of his fliip except himfell,
carpenter, and cook, and retook his veffe!
with the aHi it rice of fame paffengeis 01
band. During the conflict one ot the
prize matters was dangerously wounded, as
also one of t!ie seamen.
Letter from Portugal mention the bap
tism of a vomg Portuguese princes- at Lit
boil, d u.iluei of the prince of Brazil. Slit
v. , bapi.z dby 1a names, the lirft two
M iii Tucrefa. The ceremony via- per
formed with a jug of water, t.teen up to
the purp <1,-, lait January, from tile litwi
Jordan, in Alia.
A certified inftrunwnt appears in aNew-
York paper, signed by fix citizens, fp cifv
ing, that being on a failing party of pleafuri
ft Sandy Hook, they enquired cd some pi
lots who had jutt come in, whether ai
jirmed (hip, th it then hove ill fij'ht, wa
French or h vilifh. 'I he pilots, fnppofei
with a d li' i To deceive, told them (he w is
the Coßeorde, a French frig, ite,. Confi
cling in the ; r iniormat.on, the hO-.l s part;
put off and flood for her, but Toon fount
their mittake. She proved to be the B'l
ton —they fired at the boat (one hall nt-arh
fill I I'd her) and were taken prisoner , bin
v ere soon after discharged. Mr. Whet
in.,'. and ten mc\ belonging to the Am
bufc-de. were taken about the fame time
and ill the fa in 111 nner, ill another boat
and detain, d prifmiers. All of them tie
cla ed that the p'l >ts knb Wirtgly deceive.,
them, as tliey did the party ill the pleafir
bo.r. To explain rhis feeiniiig myltery, i
inull be oblerved. that tne pilots ol New.
V generally under th. influen e o
a Br.tifli 1; e cantile interelt ; it will re
main to be determined whether they ough
not to be enlilted, in future, under a dij
fevent h.tereli.
i'!ie weight f nieta! in thefiorton Pri:\ t<
i f1 id t< be considerably superior to that o
trie Ambufi ade. Her main deck guns an
F.ngiih eighteen pounders; those of tin
Ambuscade F am li twelves. The Mubr.f
cade' crew CO lifted of 305 persons, iiulu
di' £ boys j the Bolton ! ad 33®* i 'tl t thefi
(according to the Britifli mode of calculat
ing) were at lea it equal to i>Lo, ii not qjc
Frenchmen. The heat of theen jagemeni
continued full three giaffes (one hour arc
an half.) The chace by the lalt accounts
i 1 ted 5 hours; and nothing but tile Bos
to 11's superiority in failing large, preventec
her capture.
Extract if a letter from New York. Aug- 4
" The people from Ihi place Ih.lt occu
pied ill the failing boats that could be found
to view the engagement between thetuc
frigates, have been in a great degree dis
appointed : expecting the light to have beei
directly off tne light house, they remainec
toy far northward to have a diftincl view
The cool and systematic bravery ot tnt
Frenchman has larried all before it. Til.
E lglithmen have fled, and flying have let
an indelible (lain upon their boa.led na
tional character.
•• Tis the ait of a Briton, to blufler anc
threaten,
Hang his tail, like a puppy, when hand
somely beaten."
Sn'.o.wce of a Utter to the Mayor of Pa
ri!, giving an account if the tvyaiijls i>*
Brittany.
" The inftirgents at present occupy a
part of the territo y of fix. departments,
Indre and Loire, Main and Loire, Loir,
lnferiure. li Vendee, les deux Sevres,
and la Vienne. This invaded territory
forms a circle, the radius of which 111-iy
be about 15 or 20 leaguei. (This is al
lowing a c rcumference of from 90 to 120
league's.) The central point is at Che
milie, O lollet, and Montague. It Is from
the latter city that all the grenadiers oi
Saiimti 1 who were made prisoners are
Confined In these places the insurgents
have solleited together all their {tores of
reserve, which principally eonfid of troop;
of black cattle ; these they allow to feed
in the meadows. By the prodigious imm
ber of oxen u hich t iey have collected, th
failure 111 the Paris fuppltes may in a great
measure be accounted tor. The amount
of th - revolters cannot be calculated ; it
is pret v nearly to the population ot
the territory they occupy ; for they force
all th? inhabitants to march.
" Their anniei are from twenty to five
and twenty thousand men, each. I hey
are armed with fowling pieces, and have
neither swords nor bayonets. Of service
mulkets they have only such as they lihvl
t.ikei from the pat iots. The major part
.ire armed with pitchforks, ("pits, iticks,
&c. Tney have 111 their poflelfitth thirty
field pieces, but no heavy cannon. They
olten want powder, and you will learn
with indignation, that onr own volunteer
nave foil them their cartouches to pnrchaie
eg;s, batter, and other inch articles.
' r.uir women do not folio ,v them to
the field, but remain In the villages, and
serve as fpies.p.dli.ig on from farm to farm
giving intelligence ofthe polirion of the ar
mies of the Republic. It is all.' by their
nieans,that nviny of our volunteers have
lunv idered taeir cartouche*.
" So terrible did tliefe men make them
'1 v■: a: til aril oiil'i t, thai hole battali
un >: our me i ilyeu pi eci,aialeiv,t!i rowing
down tlieir arm., terrified with the repor,
of our own guns.
" The insurgents have no fort of rnili
: try organization, no regiments, no ada
:.on of officers and no plans, tor campaign.
They march in columns of three or tour
ue.i in front, the bead ot each column di
rected by one of their chef.>. who alone
k lows the poi t •<■> Which they are to be
i ondufcted.' V.'lletl they tight they ci.nct a',
themselves in tee heath -broom : on their
' rlt appeartfni e four or five o: them are
l>ercei» ed together in each d retli.dn, crawl -
:iig along the hedge* and dykes, aid en
deavouring to approach as near as pofljble
to dilcharge t fuco of out f >ldiei s as 111 *
advance before the line. The reniainde'
of their troops now arrive in a body, i>
fuii speed, without obfervimj any order
ind uttering loud iliouts : then afterward
extend to the right ai d left to car y off on
,oldie, y. I lliail not repeat to ycu all thai
lias been said of their fanaticifm. and e
he (tr .tag. ins the pi etts i-aie employee
to make itieni infe -.fib e of their d anger
he effect of thi ell rlauniim ir iy be re a
ili;y conceived The chiefs no longer
conceal themlelves : and fi",n themf-lves
the Geneiah of the ih- Chriilian army.
' It is cert i:i that a fliort time ago the
■>r efts & c) devant nobles willed to pa!' l
lie Loire mid proceed (trait to Paris. They
rutted that with the aid of the revolution
's, with whom they knew the metropolis
:<> swarm, tl ey cnuid succeed in breaking
ap Ihe convention. Ihe revolters, how
ever. dare not quit their country and have
.onlfantlv peililted in refilling to pals tht
Loire
"In the earlier part of this month, thev
i:irnaeed Angers, and afterwards, takin;' v
direction to Simur, attacked ! honor
which they tarried. It was then thoughi
rliat they wonld proceed towards Chion.
nil <r«ni thence to lours. They, hu-v
---ve:\ directed their prpgrefs to the nghi
o Parthenay, and have turned their b u 1<
>n the Lone. Thev are now circumfcribet
□etweev Nantz, Augers, Saumur, Tours
Poitiers, unci Nyort "
Pal tic'ilnr'i relative to t'u' !'r:gn:er> ei;t be
tween the A bujeade and fi'llou fri
gates, on Thurftiay the \jl of Angujl.
The boston frigste is said to have beet
Tent from Halifax lor the ex r rets purpoli
of taking the Anib.ifcade. Off the liuols
(lie fell in with the revenue cutter Vigi
lant, Capt. Dennis, being then lintl■ :r the
French national colours, and the ere a ha
\ i'ig national cockades ill their hats. After
"tone conversation between Capt. Dennis
a id the commander of the frigate, the lat
rer addrefi'rd huu in the follov.nig words;
•• I'ell C, pt. lJ.impard that 1 have come
all ti.e way from Hniitax on purpose to
take the An.buicade, and 1 lliall be Ver\
ppv to fee her out this way." Captain
Dennis then requrl ed of Capt. Courtney,
whether he fenoufly meant that this mei
(age lhotild be delivered ? The fir ft lieu
tenant answered him,it was ilie \ it!, ot toe
. ommander. The meflage was according
ly delivered, and a note of it put on tiie
toffee house books: In cons quence ol
which theAmbufc.de, after foilie delays
or want of a pnot, felting up her rigging.
Src. proceeded to sea oil the 3'fl, beating
down the channel without a pilot and on
he afternoon ot that day tell in with the
liofloii. Manoeuvring took place on both
ides, in which the Ambuscade Ihewed fli
irrior lkill. At day bieak the next mom
ng the frigate- being within a miie of each
iih.e.*, the Ambnfcade hoilled the n.,tional
i and the Bolton displayed the Britiih.
The battle now began, the Ambuscade be
ng to windward ot her antagonilf; a fretf
>i. ezr blowing ai N. N. E. I hey enga
ged within from 200 to 250 y. fd- of each
ither, -lie Boston firing a broad-tide with
nut hailing the Frenchman. Ihe Anibuf
cade returned the fire, carried away the
hofton's cress jack yard, and p fled by
I he Boston then tacked and came umh
the Ambufc id 's he quarter, when the
i. ng'gement became very severe. Thefirll
and lecond lieutenants ot the Boston were
u otrnded in the firlf halt hour at' the en
gagement, the former with a large tplinter
thro' his head which the surgeon cetrfd not
txtract. The fire «f the lioltou was
quicker than that of the Anibufcade in the
pr. p i tioii of 10 to 7, but every (t:ot of the
latter took effect. About the middle oi
the engageir.ent a cannon ball carried ofi
C apt. Courtney's head, together with that
of his lieutenant ot marines; and
about the fame, time mots of the officer
of the B >fton were killed or wounded-
Five Ihot Itruck the Botlon below her wa
ter mark (in a roll of the sea) nnd passed
through and through, carrying the coppei
with them, The rigging was alio great!)
damaged, and about the fame time th<
maiil top iijaft was (hot away. Ihe fail
and fmali (pars of the Boston were alio ft
cut and mangled that they had very little
omm and of the Hiip. Duri g the whole
engagement C&pt Bompard yrelerveti <
decided advantage over the Bolton, anc
kept it through the whole contelt. Attei
Capt. Courtney's death, thefirft lieut'enan
w ;is brought upon deck, and took the com
m nd. He immediately bore away, as th<
o'jly poffibie meriiod of laving the snip* * ,1(
left the Ambuftade mdlrefc of the nek
He fleered S. S. W. with the wind at N
The Amfeuffcade gave chate, but feve
•A of her mails being dangerously wound
ed, and triable to be r a press ot fail, iin
irove about aiter tv\o hours chace, ant
took a Porttigyefe brig, from Fayal.whul
ill? afterwards conducted into New-\ or
1 he h 111. df the Boston was much damaged
nd it was thought inijjoliible tor her t«
eep the sea any time. She (Veered nrl
for the Delaware, but learning there were
;.vo French frigate, in this portj Hie alterei
her eonrfe, supposed for Nova Scotia. T u
French frigates, however, had (ailed tron
the Hook to intercept her on that courte
flip French frigate received btic littli
damage, except in her ma'la and rigging
-he had 6 men killed and i i wounded
rh« B ifton had 34 hilled and upwards o
50 wounded. .. .
' Dunn)! the whole engagement, a httli
man was plainly seen, dreil'ed in a Hior
white j u ket, walking the quarter
the Aiubu c;,de» with his hands behind hi
■ack , 110« and then, however, taking t
,). )ch ot fanff. Thi was Capt. BoMPARD
He was pointed at by the officers ot tin
Boston as a marie for the mufquetry : bu
it appears he eftaped unhurt, as well < !
tii ttie o;ftcer>. we are informed, ol tin
French frigate."
" It is at all time . the privilege and th<
iu'y of freenic-n to speak and write theii
entihients 0,. a'l great political queftioin
11 which they may be concerned. Thi
i:■ h t, when used in mode ration, is fer
/iceable not only to the individual wht
• atlife.l it, but also to the public. Witl
us idea, 1 beg leave to offer a f#w re
mark* 0.1 the proclamation w hie the Pre.
ident, b. and with the advice and confen
>f hi, coiinft llors, thought proper to ufiiei
iiliongft the people f America:
Firil. the 1- —Had a ncecfjitv exift'ed foi
iny declaration whatever, the mod condi
inional mode,would have b< en, to havi
Lonvened at lead one branch <.f Congref
md w it!' their advice and ro ifent, to havi
rU' I'ned fe.ch measures as they (llould havi
clvifed.
Secondly—lf it isadmuted that the Pre
ident can flume to himfelf the right o
nidging for the people ot America in «>n.
ai- by collateral leatoning, it may ht
that this right extends to all cafe
vh.itever—As forihltance. if he volunteer
li* opinion a ,; the national sentiment. In tht
afe 01 neutrality, lie may, with as mucl
make any other national declara
ion, dining the recess ofCoiigrefs, touch
tig peace or war.
Thii dlyo-This premature step is \Veak,
ind ill advised. because it fubjecls us tc
• ommercial infiilt and injury, by inciting
:he jjritifli crtnfers to harrufs our trade
■nd plunder our teirds—The fuppofitior
>1 our pufill.i -iniity Simulates them tc
very outrageous ail.
Fourthly—Tnis declaration was officiou:
i..d una (Iced—Wa- it made to please th<
Enoliih, or to evince our ingratitude tc
:he French, and an averlion to their repub
I'uan principles? At any rate,by this pro
,nmntion,\\ would appear, thai the Ame
ricans had loft the democratic notibh:
»hich fired tlism in their contest for li
h. j rty, and that liberty was but a name
To an indifferent fpeftator, itwou'.d feeni
that the Knglilli pofl".(Ted a greater fnart
of American esteem, than our brave al.
lies, the republican ot France, and thai
\ e were fubieft to tl>e will of One man—
1 or the honor, Itappinefs, and the libert;
. niy country, 1(i icerelv hope the citizen:
of America will maniteft to the work
their attachment to repubiicanifin, and the
very great interell which they have 111 tht
It orgies of France; and that, wher.
ongrefs are ap .in in feilicm. they wil.
• ;7.. genuine complexion to the Ameri
can countenance, :n spite ot sinecures ant
ippoiiitments. those banes to every free
government."
[New-York paper.]
The frigate L'Embtilcade returned here
iVum fe » yesterday afternoon, having, a:
mentioned yei'erday, given the BRAOA
DOCIOS Of THE HOSTOy FkIGATK
A NEAT iiRVSBING:. whichwe hope
will tk Ach tnem a ujeful lejfon. N*,t /■
tc.d c'laiuitges, nor c.ill ths French cow
ards —t!f,oin: lef. haughtiness beconn-;
them. We hope to be able to give an oifi
ci.il account of this affair in our next.
[X. yorkDiary of Augvift 3 ]
Lafl Saturday, a company of artillery,
went down to fort MifHin, under the com
mand of Capt. Firtier and Capr. Lieut.
Thompson, to relieve the troops thai have
;>een ltationed there for foine time.
A veilel is arrived in the Delaware,
from the North of Ireland with 400
fengers.—Nine weeks palfage.
'I he Governor oi New \ ork has dif
rciilTed the Republican privateer, taken a
few days ago by the Bolton Frigate, tnro
the falle information ot' a | lot.
YESTERDAY anir.r.ber of citizens met
at the house of citizen Richardet to cele
brate the viaory obtained citizen
Bomparri nnd crew of L'Avi bufcade o
ver the Bolton British frigate: when alter
part -king of » dinner prtp r-d for the
company, the following ainOu" other toails
were drai.k.
1. The patriotic bard of heroes who
ompofe the CRLW ot the L AMBUS
CADE : May thev ever be fucCeisfu' in
defending the charatitr ot tree repub
licans !
2. The memory ofthofe heroes, late of
the L"AMBUSCADE, who feaUd their
Lonntry's t aufe with their blood
3. May British bOmbast ever meet the
fate of Capt. Courtney, when oppoled to
the sous of freedom.
4. The armies and navy of France : may
'hey, while engaged in the sacred canL j ot
liberty, be fuceefsful theJubjti.sui
tyranny.
5. The republics of America & France:
may their emulation only tend to a iove ol
each other. !
TO JUSTICE,
(A writer in the Gazette of the United
States.)
BECAUSE Tome pumpkin shells and lobflrr-claws
(Thrown O'er hii garden walls b)
Duke )
Have chanc'd to Fall within vOtfr meagre jaws,
A dole, at which all honest men Would :
cause l ime kreafuh luncheons >ou h.t gnaw'd
Like ra's »b?.t pre) upon the public ftote,
Must vou for that, 5 our crude-#uff belch ab' ad
And vomit lies on Mi"that pals ydQr door f
Tn bards, wherever bards are f-un^»
if full en jUSTICE does not give their due,
Spruce tho* you be, jour heels may drum the
ground
And make fine pastime for the fportite crew.
Why all these bin's of menace—da'k and fad ?
\Vhat Vs my crime that tnbs 'squire JUSTiCE
raves ?—
No fecret-tervice-money have I had
For Waging two years' war with tools & knaves^
Abus'd at courts—unwelcome to the GREAT,
This page of ours no tveil born alpe£t wears •
On honell ye men we repcl'e its site :
Ciodbvpf>er''i dollar is as good as THEIRS.
Why Would you then with hangmen-band destroy
A wight tbat wastes his ink in Jrceuom's cause 5
Who, to the last, his arrows will employ
To publifn freedom's rights, and guard her laws
O Thou ! that haft a heart so fiinty hard
Thus ofc, It olt, a poet to rebuke,
Fmm those that rh\ ine you ne'er fhal- meet regard j
Gl Braintiee's dutchy you ihall be no duke.
J US TIT i A FIAT.
OFFICERS of the mil it 1A of the
city of Pfi IL ADKLPH 1 A con;poling ! e
["nil brigade, with fucli of the general offi
cers in the city, are reqnefter 1 .0
meet at thejlate houje on Friday
ihe 9th infiant, at 7 o'clock, 011 bufmefs of
import afice.
Notice to Di/iant Subfcriberii
(Tj 5 ALL persons in arrears for thio paper,
and pdlt in liters and others who may have,
received subscription money on account of
the fame, are requeued to make fp'edy
remittances. To prevent the dues fuel
ling to mi it,/prefer amount, no p.:pc r ? will
be continued to fubferibers after tlie fir(t
[lay of November next, who (hall then be
indebted more than lis. months.—PnnShi
a'.ity ill fubfcrlßers, i; the firfl requ ate in
undertakings of this nature, aml.wstfeout
w it is impofllb!.- that any publication
ilependmg merely on fubfeription, can luiij;
t'Xill.
Shoals of Ogechee, {Georgia) J-tne 18-
ST O P THIEF.
THE public are requeit d to itop avrfi«m who
calls himfe'lt Thomas Steveh's, or Steven
(V.n, is a ftfoertia'ker, say's' be was born in the
late ot New York, is about feet 7or S inches
high, well made, lair complexion, (hurt curled
hair behind, 2nd ,hald before to the crown ; ha«
a fear 6n the back of his head, which he fays he
received in Savannah r defence 6f Mi.' RfH.fi
his en'.plcyer, By a stroke of a boot tr<?c by a Mr.
Smithfon j hastiavelled through every.state in.
the' Union,' and fc veral of the Jb»di2rt nations j he
'tule from this place a sorrel Gelding, about 1* £
r 14 hands high, has a star in his face, branded
on the mounting (boulder RM pace# an J
rots. Like wife, a half w. rn d üble fiiirtrd fad
ic, with plated ftirfups, and a b/tdte,w th
lalt moon plated buckles, and %.p 'if of gooff*
necked plated spurs. Whoever wilt bring
horse a n d thief to the fubfuibc, (hall xecei\e
Ten Guineas reward ,
SIMON DAY
J ,jl ) r- .Communicated by a CurrefpOhdet, t, uith i
request for piibli L c,iion.~\
SONGS,
unp at the teirbiaticn ol tit- fourth of lul\,
'/O?* tn PalKurk Townftiip, near Fhijauei
fnia, ft) a Selpdf Com) any.
1 0 the Time—Rule Britannia, <bc.
WHIN America fiift, at Heaven's com
mand,
Arose to i urb old Britain's pride.
Drive Tyranny sri 111 out ilie land,
Fail Freedom eclio'd far and wide.
" Konfe America, roule, be Cree,
For Nature's God gave L.berty."
To ihee belong-- the peaceful re'givj
Tl'v . ities (hall with c on-im* ice ti« w ;
Tiiv (h ps explore the bonudlefs main,
Ado "nty lan hat every foe.
Hail America ! thoti art free.
The uniicrfe lhall trade with thee.
The nations not so blest as \vp,
Sh i! in tlieir turn« to tyrarts fall,
Winlll thon lh It rile triumphantly,
The giory and the joy of all.
Hail America ! tliou art free.
The ilavifli Britons envy thee.
Still more majeftlc fhalt t' on rife,
Upheld by France's friend y wing.
And vii w thy commerce—fwift it fiies
As Nej tuneS car—old mean' 1 .ing.
Hail Anier'ua 1 thou art free,
The sea-gods ! ail, are f. iend- to thee,
F.ach haughty tyrant's fordid *"ke.
Their vain atten pts to bend thee clown,
Shall fall beneath thy ma >ly stroke.
With broken sceptre aii-1 loft crown !
Hail America! Thou ait free.
Thou'ft fought and bled for liberty.
The Muses on seraphic winig,
Shall to thy happy cuafts repair,
With laurel crown'd, and chant and sing
To manly hearts, who guai d the free.
Smile America ! Thou art Fair,
The Muses all are friends to thee.
Congratulating bowls go round,
To W ASKING I ON. and neverceafe ;
In ."out- fiumph. with mulic crown'd,
Tob.feiy. Liberty and Peace,
Smile Ameiica ! thou art free.
In spite of George and tyranny.
For Freedom! heirts and hands we't
join,
Blest Independence, hope and jov !
Th tin me. how noble, how divine !
Join, join the annual f u de-joye.
Smil* America ! thou art free,
A raie of Heroes fprmgs front thee !
ne—Girl fate great George, ifC-
T'AMFj, let thy trumpet foil id,
1 eil all the world around,
Columbia's fee !
Tell Ge.maine. North and Bute,
A id -verv other brute.
Tyrannic George won't fnit
Her liberty.
Trump r ortb in j yful found,
From camp to cai'iiprefound,
WaUiinj'ton's fame.
I-Ti feat spread far and near
That friends and foes may hear,
And Britain's iflanil fear
Washington's name.
A gforiotis ra-e lie's run,
Th' immortal Wafliington,
To make Us free.
He vanquifh'd all our foes,
The cliimfy Helti in know s.
And all uhodar'd t* oppose,
Our liberty.
The fifteen finked chain,
In union we'll maintain,
' Till time's ro mote.
Hark ! how the valley ring,
«' SI v'ry ! dt tested thing,
To hell with rapid wing.
Quit, quit our fiiore.*'
God grant since Wafnington,
Our liberty has won.
Sent from above,
St'l mayhis gallant arm,
Sectire u from all harm.
Our grateful bosom "arm.
With joy and love-
The bloody George in vain
May forge a stronger chain,
The deed is done,!
A greater George than he,
Hath f< t Columbia free,
linniortaiiz'd iball be,
George WASHINGTON.
A FEW COPIESUF rat
TRANSACTIONS
Of the Society i'.jptuttd in the State r>j
jVf"!l 7 l nrk, fur the promotion of
AGRICULTURE ~ ARTS, and MANU
F AC TURKS,
May be had at this Office,
[Price half a dollar.2
PHILADELPHIA.
A gentleman of charafler who has jufl
n:lived from Germany, brings the follow
ing Important intelligence'fo'fhe'friends of
'iberty and equality: Th?t in the middle
or the tenth of May lall, one of '.he mo):
1 efpeCfable merchants of Berlin, (the re
fidence of the king of Prussia) put tht
following infeription over his duor, in go!
den charaftcrf : hibtYtv, I'qua its, andlht
Rights of Alan. His Majrlty was imme
i lately informed thereof, hut through fear
i t his own luhjects, fuffered it to remain
unno'iced. A remarkable circumstance
which renders :t probable, that (hi debi
ht?»ed voluptuary will si on experience a
fur'iln- fate with Louis the 16th. Thij
gentleman farther tclatcs that his mittrefTe-
Have airtady ni. de iuch drafts upon hi#
tr ( a r urytha* it is nearly eXhaust d, an-!
tlii-y have d-bilita ed his body, whillt he
redita y j rince, to firch a degree, that
epileptic fii.i art his daily portion, an ' his
inabih y to goVcrn at present the grea e!l
misfortune to his fu jets Thefamcgen
tlemau add:., that the combined armfc'3 arc
in the g'eateii want ■ f money, provisoes,
and fnpplics cf al! kin.l 3, whereas the
Frc c!i have ev ry thing in abundance,
and that the fp.rit of liberty and equalitv
nas made and is (lill mak-ng incredible
progrefi in the German empiie
Captain Jol-.ua Bafney, who during the
late war commanded the Hyd r Ali, we
leain, from t> e befl authority, is arrived at
Baltimore, with ten men belonging to a
\ T ew Providence privateer, whom he cap
tured in the following manner :
On his voyage from Cajje Francois to
Oiitimor , off the Bite of Leogane, he
fel in with a Nt w-Providence privateer,
ivhich took his ship, the Ssmpfon, as hav.
nng French property on board. The
:aptors attempted to take Captain Bar
ney on board their vcflel, but he swore
:hey fl-.ould not t ike him out alive—that
ie would (lick by her while he had breath
n him : they ..cfilted, left him on board
lis vr/r.-l, wi h four of his men, and man.
led her with ten of their crew.
Capt. Barney sized a favourable mo
rien', when seven of the privateer men,
lUr ifted by their cupidity, were search no
ft, r plunder below feenred their, there,
n ilterej tli e remaining three, with tht
ifTtilance of his four men, and has carried
hem into' Baltimore.
' his in It a nee of cool intrepidity so cha
•afteriUicof t e brave Capt. Canity, is e
•'ipfed by an a&ion of the molt difint relt
;d heroism performed by him at the Capt
'uring the late catallrophe in that city.
He, notwithttanding a continual lire frorr
: e negioes, landed in the midlt of flame;
lnd saved from a merchant's counting
'ou e, valuables to the amount of many
houland dollarj.
From an English paper, dated Go r port.
June j.
Britons boast of their humanity to pri
Pollers taken in war; what will their hearts
Feel when informed, that, to the disgrace
:>f our national chara&er, some French
prisoners have been so much neglected,
'hat, but for the merest accident they mull
abfoli'tely have perilhed with hunger?
Sir Richard Worfley, the commandant of
this pine , happening on Sunday to visit
the pi ifon here, found fix French prisoners,
ill officers, who from the time of being
cor.ftiuH, viz on the Friday preceding
had not tailed food of any kind, notwith
ila i ing repeated (olicitations; nor could
[hey hav procured any hut for his deter
mined interference. This ta e needs not
to be dwelt upon—every feeling heart
must be filled with angtiifh at the bare re
:i *1 Sir Richard, wth that humanity
which is hisch rafteriltic, immediately re
iieved their d llrefs and ordered a proper
enquiry to be made into the abuse. This
bu .ness, of course, will be reported to the
duke 6f Richmond, and we hope the per
lons uho could be guilty of such inhu
manity, be they who they may, will re
ceive an exempl ry punilhment.
The daily r tions allowed to the priso
ners are only three quarters of a pound of
meat, ( ones Included) and three quarters
of a p.- und of verv coarse ill-baked bread—
a small enough allowance 1 and fhou d they
be robbed of this icai.ty pittance with
impunity? In Irance, notwithflanding
the vail diffeeence in the present ci cuiii
(lances of the two countries, the daily al
lowance g'ven to Englilh prisoners, is
sixteen Fiench ounces, equal to seventeen
and an halt English, of meat, and a pro
portiunable quantity of good bread; and
it would be death to the villain who (Jiould
rob them of it. Is It possible that French
men, who are daily represented to us as
ravages and barbarians, can excel Britons
in generosity ! In humanity ! in julticc ?
DECREE OF THE NATIONAL
CONVENTION, May 9 .
Art, I. Ships of war and privateers are
authorised to fcize and carry into the
ports of th- republic, merchant vcflfcls,
whxh are wholly cr in part loaded with
provisions, being neutral property, bound
11) an enemy's poit, or having on board
merchandize belonging to an enemy.
Art. II Merchandize belonging to the
enemy, Is declared a lawful prize, f ez ,ble
for the proht of the captor. Provisions.
being neutral property, fliallbe paid for at
the price they would have f Id for at the
port where they were bound.
Art. 111. On every occasion, neutral
vessels shall be immediately lcleafcd tin
moment the provisions found on board are
landed, or the seizure of merchandize (hall
leefTefted. The freight shall be fettled
it he rate p id by the charterers ; a pro
per con;ptnf.ition (hail be granted for de
tntion of the vefiels by the tribunals, whe
ire to - djudge t e prizes.
Ait. IV. These tribunals fiiall catif- tc
">c ma e out within three days after thi
ujgment has been given, a copy of the
u.mifelt of the provisions and good, found
in board to the miniller of the marine
and another copy to the miniftcr of so
eign affairs.
THIS D V IS PUBLISHED,
By mathew carey
No. I 18, Market Street,
Emb>lli<hrdwith iM/tP of South Atri'rics
M». VII, Or a NEW SYSTEM Or MODERN
GEOGRAPHY.
:>R, A GEOGRAPHICAL, H.S U ICAL.
AND COMMERCIAL GRAMMAR j
Anj pre!<- ni Si„ieol tire Several
KINGDOMS OF THE WORLD.
'CON TAiNING
. The figures, motions, and distances of the bla
nets, according to the Newtonian (\ Ren: am
the la eit obJC/vations.
I. A general view of the earth confidtre£ as a
pianet j with leveral ufeful geographical defi
nuions ai:a problems.
11. The grand v.nun of the globe into land;
and water, continent* and illands.
V. The fitualion and extent t f empires, k ng
di.m , (tat. . s, provinces, and Colonic*.
?. J neir climates, air,Tj.i, vegetable produtti
os, metale, mineiaL, naiural cuii lit.es, Teas,
r Ire Is, ba^s,capes, promontories, and lakes.
1 l'hc b<:as and D-'iiis peculiar to each couutry .
/if. Ot»lerv ations on live changes that hare bcei
any whets oblefved u:;.,n the face of nature
fir.ee the mult early ptrhids of hiltory.
Th<* hiftorv and origin cf nations; their
forms of government, religion, law:, revenues,
tax t, naval and military ihength.
X. The genius, manners, cuftoras> and habiti
of the people.
Their language, learning, arts, sciences, ma
■iufa&ures, and commerce.
£1. The chief cities, ltructures, ruins, and ar
t ficial curi«>iities.
til. The longitude, latitude, bearings, and dif
taactsof the principal places 'from Philadelphia.
TO WHICH ARC APBFDt
. A Creograpbual Index, *i<h the names, and
places a ipnabeiicaUy airanged.
i. A Tar.le of the Coins of all Natrons, and thei;
value in E glifh M ne>*
11. A Cbroroiogual .Table of rerhaka&le events,
fiotn the Creation to the pieient Timer,
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE. Esq.
rhs Aitior -nnvial I'ait Dy J jmes F .R3,
To which have been added,
Ihe late Diknvei ic: oi D,. H-richei, and ociie;
eminent Altronomers.
jirjt American edition, iirprcved•
and greatly enlarged.
The pub! (her of this woik, thankful for th? pat
ronage with *h:ch he has been honorfd, fob
mics the pre fen t number to the infpetiion ui
his lel.Ow-ciuzens, and lays before them
1 he terms of publication .
I. This geograpny fhail b. published in forty
eight weekly numbeis, each Containing twen
y >our pages of letter prelV.
11. In the C' urle of the publication will be dc
ivered the following maps ;
1' I'he world. 2. Europe. 3. Sweden, Den
naik, Norwa , and Finland. 4. Kurtia. 5
6. England ano Wales. 7. Jrelanu
■-.France. 9. S ve . United Pr »vinces. 10. An
ff.ian and l iencii Netherlands. u. Germany,
z. Switzerland. 13 Poland. 14. Soain a ...
Portugal. 15. Italy. 16. Turkey in Europe
7* Alia, ib China, ig. Hindultan. 20. Af
ca. 21. Norrh America. 2z. Britilh Ame
nca, 23. We!f-Indies. 24. Sooth America
25 Pianifphere of' the ea.-ii. *z6. Cou-u.ir
r un 't the north o.le. *27 Dilcover.es mad.
> Cipta us Cooke and Cleike. *28. Kt
H.imp.liir . *29. MaflachuYetta. *30. Co:,
i J efticut. *31. Rhode Island. *32. Vermon.
033. New-Vork. #34. New-je.fey.
# ennfylvania and Delaware. *36. Maryl ( ;i ti.
# 37- Virginia. •38. N-rtl-Carolina. *3,.
S *40. Georgia. ♦41. 7*/.
here. *42. The Copernican fjftem.
N. B. All the maps marked with rtars ar<
added to this edition, exciufive of those in thr
iail London euiiion#
< Int no difappo'ntment rr.ay arlfe from fob-
Icrrbers expedtiilg what the publiflirr ne iher pio
miles nui is -o.e' to perl,.im, he g,vej (hi, early
& explicit notice, that to some ot the States it will
oe impossible for him t. give maps fully accurate,
no late lurvejs having betn .T.ade ; and it is hard.
!v n,cellar, to pbkrve, that it falls not within
■>> plan to go to the ejpenle of lurveys. But in
very mllance, he will avail hitr.felfof the lilt
material extent : a dfuch Corr, flions and addi
wu a» his utrnoit excitions can procote, stall
e made.
ill. The geography of the United States is un
d-.tsken bj gentlemen of literary abilities, who
have ergagea to give a mine full'and fatisfafto
ry "Ciount ot it than was ever published it
wrll ".tend to 250 or 300 pages, although in
the britiih edition, and tven in that ©1 j?qz
it makes on!) about 30.
iV. Should the w- rk exceed forty-eight num.
bera, the l urplua wilJ be delivered gratia to the
lubferibers.
J. The p ice of ea*.h number will be a quarter
dollar, to be paid on deliver).
VJ. Such lubfcribeis as do not choose to receive
the woifc in numb' rs, are to pay thite dollars
ar the time of lublcribing.
The printer, anxious to render this woik at
rfeft a» the nature of it will allow, most <ar
eftlj requert*, that luch gentlemen, throughonc
he United States, as have it in their power, will
urnilh him w th documents for corn-fling the
nil errors in the a, hy of America, and for
urnrfhing a more complete fyfltm ofgeogiaphy
has has yet appeared.
Ihe title page, iill- of fubfciiber's aamee with
he account of the Newtonian (yltrm, &c &c
"ill be given in tne 47th and 48th numbers.
N. B. '1 lie fuufcribers, and the public in ge
eral are refuelled to conlider the following very
material ci cumftanee—l he London ijuarto edi
'on lold here, foi fifteen dollars, although ic
."ntams only 25 maps and pla:es, and of the geu
-riphy (,» ifce United Stales, as has been uMerved
above, only aboot 30 pages— vvheieas, Carey'i
;J.tion will contain 4?. maps ana plates, and havs
■*<> hundred pages of letter p r eh more. A„o it
'■eed not be observed, that the seventeen maps ro
-e added, are of no le importance to America
I'V fat, than the 15 London ones. The oblervn
."•n oil! apply with equal force to the letter pref»
iflditi >ns.
will be published in fui l< order of
uccetlion .is they are engraved, and ditections wilt
-e P 1 intcd for tile proper manner of placing thei»
5> tl e book, binder,
yuJlPubliJhed
KyJohnston and Justtce,
No. 4 t, Chd.iut Xtieet, and may be had ar
No. acq, Ma:ket Stieet,
Price one end Jour feme btf penny,
2 ravels through America,
jo y
■*j^m—-by Michael Fcrrest.
CONTENTS:
VOYAGE fiom Ireland to Newfoundltrd—
?elcription of News mndland—Voyage from
v'ewfoundla-d to Boiton— Add,efs to C .lumb'.a*
0 the Bnlfj.niani, and to Bunker's Hill Vovage
10*1 Ro(tn> t > oaltimore—Oofervati ,ns 011 pali
ng Brandyune, going to Philadelphia—A tie,.
.1 i voutlr fwimmiog in the river Schuylkill ant
parting my i*i roaigin—Defcriotion of Philadel
pma—A frat-rnai scene—A moral deduced fiotr.
lie fraternal scene—Battle of the ".egs in I'hila-
J'lphia—Sailing fr&m Philadelphia" t . B, rden
wn in a boat—Phiiofopliical conteropfa
;u»n with res; < t<, human ha.vinefs—View or
Lurli gton and Bristol—A de.icare view of a
.any iady bailing in a fy Ivan po jl—Roland iti
:l.e jirove ? a Jural Icene—Moral si in the ciitreTi
" i^«>landa—Adjrels tu RoJancia's irKonftani
iwait—'The approacli of Winter—-A Vviattr
Sr jrm The approach of Spiing—A view of the
solar fyl«em on a fine summer ni^ht —Horal ob
fi rva-fions—Bjttle of Trenton — Pra le of Gene
ra! W'- ,i .jMOfj—Da. 'line and S -ephon, a rut at-
Icene—Voyage to Cha.lefton, South-Carolina
Deicriptton of Chaileft anvi toe Ladies of Ca
rolina-- Veifes to a C> I'm a Lady-- Siege of
Ch.'rlefton—Addrffs to Fortune --Verses ad
ilrelied o a votmg Gentleman at the ChanT-ltoik
L"I Academy-- A of unlimited
sub imc 1 oetry—Man Avail be free, a new foa^
Shrewsbury and Philadelphia
STAG E.
Shr. w/bury a-d Philadelphia fta«re>
1 will conmence toruo regularly, u n Tburf
da> hefoiiith ol July, to leave Philadelphia o.»
that day, afte- which Mm-, during the niont}>
'tjuly, i wl 1} ut from M'Kean andYaoFnv
!ju £ s wha { a Philadelphia ('he next whaif be~
low Arch street) on every Sunday and WeJnet
id.v 3c proceed to Bordenton—the land to
on the next m >rning to E imgtjn, an t
return nn every Tt> fday and Friday. In the
"on hoi it wi ■ I leave Phiiiad Tphi* orv
very Sun-day and I'hurfday, and letuin on every
Tu-ldav and Saturday.
Fare for Paflengersfrom Philadelphia
n - - two dollars &an ha'f
For goods ditto - ditto pr. cwt. one d itar fc
VAN EM BURG & M K£ AN, *
SAMUEL FORMAN.
Rordenton June 29, 179^.
F .1 freight or apply to the mailers or»
>>oard, or to
M'KEAN &■ VAN EMBURGH
Who lia\e t< r fair as vjua! at their store 07 fa id
wharf, pork, iiams, slur, ]a'butter, rye and
/ndian meal, cheese, bar iron See. See.
J ul y 3- 2m. law.
PRINTED EY
C H I L D S and S W A I N E.
«T T hilt' IFF ICE No. 209, HIGH-STREI J",
VZAR rifTH-STitriT,
FAll ADSLVIiIAs