Numb. 49 of Vol. ll.] WEDNESDAY, April 17, 1793.
Mr FreneAu,
THE two enclosed pieces appeared in the
Hartford American Mercury of April ift.
They seem to have been calculated more
particularly for the meridian of Connecti
cut, bntuiayalfo be very acceptable to a
number of readers in " the latitude oj
Philadelphia." A. B.
AS the origin of all power is in the people,
a government recogniziug that prin
ciple, audfecuring the rights of represen
tation and election, is said to be a fret
government. The constitution of the
United States, and of the individual States
of America, fall within this description ;
for the people in whom the source of pow
er resides, impart the firit imptilfe and
moving force to the political machine, b)
ele&io i—This right forms the basis of out
freedom—it is the check to the en
croachments of the magistrates, and thai
degree of influence which they might
othefwife obtain over the fubjefts of theii
authority. The history of past ages, as well
as the known principles of human nature,
afford the fulleft evidence of the tendencj
of all government toward absolute domi
nion— Therefore, in its conllitution and
formation, that it be ballanced, checked
and secured, againit this natural tendencj
as far as the caie will admit, is not of it
felf enough ; there is a duty continually tc
be performed by the people ; they are tc
w.itch and employ the checks left in their
hands. The continuation of their liber
ty does not so inuch depend upon the ex
igence of the right of election, as upon a
vigilant and careful exercise of it.— The)
are the proprietors of government, and
the ruler, the person who isentrufted with
the management of the estate. If the
owners neglect their proprietary interest,
the manager may easily run off with the
profit, leaving them to {hare in nothing but
the expente. A progreflion of ftnull and
imperceptible encroachments may incourfe
of time grow into fyltem and acquire the
force of precedent. From the fame cause,
the sentiments, manners and habits of a
country, may fuffer a flow revolution, and
elections retain nothing of their original,
but the name.
These observations, though they contain
no new or uncommon sentiments to re
commend them, are, from the nature of
the subject, worthy of some attention, and
may lead us to reflect, that the liberty we
enjoy is an inheritance we are bound to
transmit to posterity unimpaired. If the
use or abuse of the right of election is the
medium through which it may be either
preserved or loit, the con:lu(ion i»obvious,
that an attentive exercise of this right is an
indifpenlible duty incumbent on every
Freeman. The c hies magistrates in Con
ne&ictit are often elected by less than one
twentieth part of the legal voters —But a
small part of the Freemen assemble, and
but a small portion of that part attend
when the mod important branch of the
bulinefs is tranfa ; tinif —the Tools and Con
nectioKs of thole who seek for office rc
left to execute their deligns unmolelLd
When such inattentioi prevails, it is nei
ther strange or unaccountable, that men
some times gain an election, and afterwards
hold their plat e againll the choice of a ma
jority of the people.
It may be urged tiiat the Freemen can
not have personal knowledge of every man
held up to view, as meriting their Suffra
ges throughout a whole State ; and mull
either be guided by the opinion of others,
or must many times negleit to act.
But if it be a buliuefs of such moment,
every Elector ought to i.iform himfelf, ami
always t.) give his fuffrage according to the
bed information he can obtain. Men who
have gained important offices, whether de
serving or undeserving, are, from their con
dition and lituation, always able to (ectire
to themselves friends.
The longer such office has been in tht
poileffion of one man. or one family, the
more numerous will be his adherents rea
dy to cover his faults, and exhibit only the
faireft part of his charafler. Hence ari
ses aqneflion worthy the attention and ex
amination of every Free Elector—Whe
ther public difcullion of the qualifications
and merits of candidates for office, be not
necefiary for the formation of a right judg
ment on that fubjeft—Men who occupy
elevated stations in life, are surrounded
with sycophants and flatterers, ready on
every occasion to pimp, cabal, vaA intrigue
for their patron. Nothing affords To great
fecurily against their deligns as a free pub
lic discussion, which awakens the attemioD
By P. FREN EA U : Publijhed Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
of every one, opens the sources of intelli
gence, and excites men to develope the
truth. He who fears to be tried by this
test, ought never to come forth as a candi
date for office.
Another thing deserving of notice in the
exercise of the right of election, is, that
the highelt offices be not continued too long
in one family or perjon,
In Connecticut the compensations given
for public services are in ijo cases so great
as to produce a dangerous accumulation
of wealth in the hands of those who re
ceive them, but it is very oovious, that the
long continuance of dignified and impor
tant offices in the fame -family, begets an
influence more dangerous to a republican
government than that which is derived
from wealth. Anltocratic fentimencs, and
aristocratic manners are here generated,
nursed and matured. A man born and
educated with exalted ideas of his own
greatness and that of his anceftofs, will
neverconiider his fell >w-me:i as his equals
or as partaking of the f ime riphts—lnve'l
him with the poweri of m igltVracy, and
all subordinate offices of trull and einoln
mcnt, wi.hin his reach. wilibefeized upon
for his own family and connections, to the
exclusion of those who are much better
qualified. By such means he will form an
atmosphere of influence tending directly to
sap the foundation of free government
Tne firft article of the creed of a repub
lican, is that all men are equal, and are
distinguished only by their ability and their
mprit.
But when power has been fuffered to
flow in the fame channel until it has pro
duced to itfelfa bulwark against the hands
who gave it, these principles are revers
ed—" It then becomes the Electors to be
fenlible of their just rights, in order, that
by understanding in the firft place what as
men they owe to themselves, they may in
the second make their rulers know, and i#
necessary feel, what they, as servants of the
people, owe to them."
ALGERNON SIDNEY.
In a preceding paper I fnggefted a few
thoughts on the importance of elections,
and the dangerous consequence of neg
ligence in the elective body ; in pu.-fuing
the fnbjett we fliall naturally notice tne
operation, influence, and effect of par
ties.
TT will be found in all free governments,
tvhere full liberty of thought & aition is
allowed, that the public sentiment will be
divided on many questions refpefting the
principles of the government, the admin
istration, or some other circumstance con
nected with the general police, from
whence parties arc produced. At the
commencement of the late war, some per
sons of haughty and imperious minds be
came leaders in the revolution, not from
an attachment to republican principles,
but from a regard to til? honors expected
to be fliared under tiie new government.
From this source originated two parties
in Connecticut, the one contending for the
good of the w hole, proceeded on democra
tic ground, and endeavoured by their prac
tice to verify their prcfeffions in the cause
of liberty—the other feemcd t» aim at the
good o(the few. and the aggrandizement of
particular families, clamoured for more
'vergy and a higher tone to the adminif
trat c inveighed ajainft the imbecility,
timidity ir>d dependance of the ma»,if
rrates, and . idiculcd every republican ar
gument opposed to their yfttm, T' e cn
;>hls and intrigues of this party ir. course
>f time, inereafed i " flrength by advanc
ing its principal ,'-t T to a higher and
more influential ftati
Though this was not the ast f the Free
men at large, but the refrlt of fliilful ma
nagement in the Legislature, yet it was
conlidered by the fuccefsfi.l partizans as a
fubjeft of triumph, and from thk rime
their attempts to influent e fucietding elec
tions, became more direst. open and noto
rious. The ribaldry of Bil:ingfgate was
letloofe upon their opponents fioma mer
cenary grai:pe of grutftreet Jcriblers.
through the medium of a projlituted pre/s.
Low ridicule, with them was forcible ar
gument. and the application of unmeaning
nicknames, such as Bubo, Wnglog, Wro>;n
head, Wimble, an& Copper, conclulive evi
dence. Inihort, men of the most elia
blifhed reputationfor integrity and worth,
who appeared on the other ficie of the
question, were traduced, vilified, andfenr
riloufly abused ; and if. I may use the lan
guage of the gamester, the design was to
jhujfle and cut the pack until all the hoi.on
should be dealt into their >uu hands. Jvjt
serious answer could very well be given to
a piece of vulgar ridicule, efpecidlly if it
had no other foundation than the place ol
one's residence, or the corpulent, or fleudei
proportions of his body : in nee some men
of too weak, nerves to be ir tlie fun* <-i
filch weapons, retreated from the cci fl.c.
and left the game to terminate as i h net
should dirett. To recount the wo.tlj
charatters, uhich have been displaced m u
important offices, and lattifueti to the de
signs of thi* party, would txuid the ii
mit» I haveaffigned ; they are well known,
and freih in the nunds of many e.f the £Ooc!
people of this flatfe.
It is remark-iblc that thr. ;!i the wln It
period of time in which tiiefe dhition.-
have Cxilled in he'ti t», . . the grca
truggles that have bee., made i creuit
the weight in the Ariji >cratic bcah- liirrt
us scarce any thi g ypear. <1 on that lid
iddrafled to the undtrilat.dmg and gooi
1.-nfe of the peopie. The dej>e.<da .ct
l'eenj? to ha.e been upon the wit rather
than the/rg/t of their writers. Ncithei
the Patio t, the Client, nor even thefolemn
firth eof the Attar, cou d dttain thof
v Ley firiblen from tile inure iirportam
aulinefsof their party.
I have taken bin a fumnary review 01
the parties in this State; whoever gives the
I übje£t a more careful examination, irn
enters fiiore minutely intt> the hittory of
it, will agree in tliepofitlon endeavored t
be supported by these papers, ihat the
»vhole fabric of our liberty, i epe.ds on
vigilance and attention in the exercije of tin
rights of election. Unlefsthe Frccuien look
tor themselves, they are li bit to iitipoli
tiou from all quarters. Thj esttenlive cir
culation of Newfp;'pers through thi. State,
might afford a competent (hare of infor
mation respecting the affairs of the public
to every iudividual. V. hatever appears in
the style of candid difcuflion, and is ad
d-efled to the understanding of the people,
ought to receive theirattention, but if Iro
ny, Satire, and Ridicule■, are adopted as the
guide of their judgment, they aie certain
to err.
At the last annual election, a sentiment
prevailed in all parts of the State, t!»at ii
was belt to make a change in the offite ef
Lieut. Governor. Judge Ellfworttt was
generally thought of, as a fnicable charac
ter for that pLce. But v hat was the op
position ? Not that Mr. Eilfwcrth wa:
.ess capable of preliding in the Court ol
Errors, than the gentleman then in office—
Not that his abilities were interior to the
other in any point of view—Not that hi:
integrity was doubted—Not that he d ;
not merit and poflefs the highest confide; ce
ot the people. No arguments orobjee
tions of thii kind were ever suggested. bui
the public papers teemed with the faint
kind of ridicule which has ever been the
chief iuflrument of the party in oppolition.
The Freemen were to be laughed onto!
their opinions, and eighteen hundred ant
ninety-four independent Fle£iorsuho ho
nored hira with their fuffrages, would be
nothing less than a Faction, in a slate oi
actual rebellion fgamlt the reigningpi"w■
e rs. Why? Becatife they judged It con
ducive to the public interelt to break uj:
the hereditary descent of an overgrown fa
mily, and introduce a 111 n more universal
ly ejleemed, into the line of succession.
Have the people of Connetficut no power
to change their rulers? Have they no dis
cretion to determine on whom the honor?
of government ought to be conferred ?
Are they placed under the conferration ol
<i junto ot blackguard fcriblers r Or arr
they at liberty to examine, judge, and afi
for themselves ? If the latter be the cafe,
let not the arts of the intriguingpartizan,
or the mean ridicule of the mercenary
Wit, divert them from the great objects of
their duty; let them enquire with dili
gence. deride with ileliberation, and tic)
with firmnefs—let them guard their rights
with care and defend them with fpirit a
ALGERNON SIDNEY.
" ' — lUßilij. 'I
Mr. PAINE'S reasons for preserv
ing the life of LOUIS CAPET—
AS DELIVERED TO THE NATIONAL
CONVENTION.
CITIZEN PRESIDENT,
MY hatred and abhorrence of monarchy
are fufficienrly known ; they originate i:i
principles of reason and convict s ,>n, nor,
except with life, can they ever be extir
pated ; but my companion for the unforrn
nate, whether friesd or enemy, is equallv
lively and finccre.
[Total No. i 53. j
I voted that Louis it.ould be tried, he
caufe it was netefiary tit afford proofs
the World of the perfidy, toutiption a»i
bominatioii of tlie monarchical fyfttm
The infinity of evidencetht has been pro
duced, txpofes them jn the )i oft glaring
■nd iiidtcu tuif-nrs. ,H;cnUf it rcfuitt!
tli f :t mimareh). whatevet form it i, ay a/-
fun c. ;;rb:t a. yor otherv .e, betoi;.<. ne
nil ;rjy a iiiitri, r< tine w huh are u ited
utiy !( e«.ies of conuptio i, and that th<-
ai-gty -rade is no ;aV dcttrrciht if ait
nu. liity iji, the hi ti an b.t.il tl;anth>
: rie < t aj extctitioi.eris-'U rii£me 01 ijv
fci'fibifi.y
1 tnui ber, during iny rlidonee i.i
i. o;. . r country. that J ■ c <
i urk w iih a lenience o* M Jiuihaint. at
- >.l-'i''lii)s. v.h tit ct.rrt ipojiti; exac./
wltf i y own iota, " jSJak. „ , , ki:igfp'_
■ ay.' l.nci lie, and I fh'ujl ie a rofcbei o»
i.< rn.u
Nc-,t tbeiefs, I :m inclined to believe,
>'>•' f L,ouis {,ap< . had bitll born 1. 1 an
' u "'f e. j dition, h. t! l;e ljied v ifl, ,i the'
■ rt.'t of (i) amiable a J refjei . 1 it 11. jfh
l ;®"' 1,1 <><!. at li'.crty • prac.-iA t: edi.t t's of•
dumeftic life, had h b.en it,c, fiur.u-d, l>
-armot b ieve ihftrht.wtD.il l:a\e fhewu
linifelt dell.ttite-of Axial virtues : we are
'i ■) mo tof ft, 1. t, tll>' :i .1,.c ihis. na
urally li 'e iui clgeitt to Iti: vices, or ra- •
■ htfr to thof of no n. Nongovernments,
*er j'.ard t- duitiOnai hori or a: d
d.g.'auon ; ej ait 1 or* hei
nous 'ban thoU Li ~.j rtiicct liors, but
leeaiife our eyes are now o|'en and f'ri l
feil of deli:,' on at .ti.i raWn; yet
tile lamentable, degraded slate to when
'e is actually reduced, is Aire Iv :at kfsim -
putable to him. than to the conflitutjit af
rembly, wjiich, Qt its own authority, with
out content or adviie of the people, refer -
cd him to the throne.
I was ill Paris at the time of the fl : ght cr
abdication of Louis X\l. aIICi .Own he
v -'S taken and brought brick. T lis pre -
pofal of refioring to him the lup, en » pow -
er Uruck me wnii amazement ; , nd a!-
though at that time, I was rot a Krericfc
ritiZten, yet as a citizen of iht world, i
smployed all the cflorts that depended 011
!!ie to prevent it.
A finall society, compost d only of file
persons two of wiiom are now nienrbers cf
the convention, took, at that time, t!ie
name of the-Republican * Club, (Siuirt'e
Republi. ainej. This society 'p, < ! d the
fe lor; tion of Louis, not 10-inftth 6 ac
count ot lijs own personal ftfit-nces. ' , u
order to overthrow the inonarihy d'.o
erea Oil its ruins- the Republican Syf.enj,
ai d an equal Rej>refentat;on.
Vv ith this design I traced out in the Er:-
1?I 'I' language certain pi opofitior -, w Inch
were tranfhited, with fume trifling altera
tions, and iigned by'Achiiles" DuchatJ:-?,-
aflually lieutenant-general in the army cf
the French Republic, and at that tiiHie on".'
of the five members which compofcd our
littleparty ; the law requiring rhe f. ;i
tureof a citizen at thi bottom of each
printed paper.
The paper was indignantly torn by Ma
louet and brought forth in this very'rooni
as an article of accusation agaiiift the per
lon w ho had signed it, the author :>nd their
adherents ; but such is the revolution c '
events, that this paper is noiv revived, and:
brought forth for a very oppi.fite purpose ;
—To remind the nation of the-error of
that unfortunate day, that fatal evrof
l aving not then banifheJ Louis XVlth.
from its bosom. & to plead this day in 1;
vour of his exile, preferably t.> l.i:. derta.
The paper in quefliou was loacdvcd ia
the following terms :
'• Brethren and Feflotu Ci/izrnt,
The serene tranquility, tlie mutual cofr
fidence which prevailed ainongfl ns, during
the time of the late king's cfcape. the in
difference with which we beheld him re
turn, are unequivocal proofs that the a b-
Ance of a king is more delirr.ble than Iris
presence, and that he is 110': only a politiral
fuperfluity, but a grievous burthen prefl;ii«
hard on the whole nation.
Let 11s not be inipofed on by Aiphifffls;
All that concerns this man, is reduced to
four points.
He has abdicated the throne in having
fled from,his poll. Ahclicat'o:: and de er
tion are not characterized be the ,'ejifith ot'
absence ; but by the firgle j;t ol fiijj.tr. In
the prelVnt iiiftance. the E ajs cvc.ythh .<•,
and the time nothing.
The nation can never give back i'scon
fidence to a man w ho.f !fe to his ;r.uU, per
jm ed to his oath, conspires a clanoelfir®
night, obtains a fraudulent p"(l]<rrt, cor-tills a kinj of France under the disguise
«i a valet, directs hi > co'urfe towards a fron
tier covered v:th traitors ami deftrters,
and evidently meditates itVeturn into our
counn-y, wii.ii a force capable of jiupoling
his own d.-fpoiic laws.
Wiieuier ought nis fl gilt to be conlider
ed a> .1;, own act, or tile act of thoi'e who
fled wicli iii:u., Was it a lpontaneous re
loKuio.io; his own, or wasut inspired into
linn by otiiers ? The alternative is imma
terial : Whether fool or hypocrite, idiot
or traitor, he has proved liuufelf equally
t! iwiii t:iy of the vail important functions
that had been delegated to him.
In every fern's that the queltio.i can be
conlidered, the reciprocal obligation whicii
fubiided between us \i diifolved. He
JioUU.nolonger authority. We owe him
no longer obedience. We fee in him noxv
Jio more than an indifferent person; we
can regard him only as Louis Capet.
r.ie lultory of France presents little else
than a longi'eries of public calamity, which
takes i,s source from the vices of her kings:
We have been the wretched vitfims that
have never ceased to futfer ei her by them
or for them. Tiie catalogue of their o,>-
prellions was complete, but to complete
thefii.n of their crimes, treason yet was
"wanting. Njw, the only vacancy is filled
up, tlie dreadful lilt is full : The fyilein is
exhautted : There i re no remaining er
rorj for them to commit, their reign is
consequently at an end.
Wliat kind of office must that be in a
government which require* n.ither expe
rience or ability to execute ? that may be
abandoned to tnedefperate chance of birth,
that may oe filled by an idiot, a madman, a
tyrant, with equal effect, as by the good,
the virtuous, and the wife. An otiice ol
this nature is a mere nonentity ; It is <
place of fliew, not of use. Let Francs
then, arrived at the age ol reason, no longei
be deluded by the found of words, and lei
her deliberately examine, if a king, how
ever insignificant and contemptible in him
/elf, may not at the fame time be extreme-
Jy dangerous.
The tliirty millions which it costs to sup
port a king ill the eclat of stupid brutal lux
ury, pref. it us with ail easy method of re
ducing taxes, which reduction would ai
once release the people, and flop the pro
gref. of political corruption. The gran
deur of iiatio is confifls not, as kings pre
tend, u the splendor of thrones, but in e
coafpicuous sense of their own dignity,
mid ill a juit disdain of those barbarous
lollies and crones, which, under the fane
tion of royalty, have hitherto defolatec
Europe.
As to the personal fafety of Mr. Lout!
Caper, it is so much t e more confirmed,
a- France will not (loop to degrade herfeli
by a spirit of revenge againlt a wretch
who iia-. dishonored himfelf. In defending
a jult and glorious cause it is not pofliblt
to degrade it, and the universal tranquili
ty which prevails. ;s an undeniable proof
that a free people know how to refpef
themselves."
Having thusexplained the principles am
the exertions of tne republicans at tnat fa
tal period when Louis was reinstated it
full pnli'iliion of the executive power
♦'hicli by hi -.flight had been fiifpended, I
re'uru to the firbject, and to the deplora
b e lituation In wii ch the man is now ac
tually involved.
Wnat w as negle£ted at the time ofwhicl
I have been speaking, has been finc<
brought about by the force of liecellily
the wilful treacherous defects in the form
cr constitution have been brought to light
the continual alarm of treason and colil'pi
r<icy roused the nation and produced even
tually a feco id revolution. The peopli
have beat down royalty, never, never «
rife :g in , they have brought Louis Capei
to th . bar, and dcinonlfrated in the face ol
the whole world, the intrigues, the cabals
the falthood, corruption, and rooted de
pravity, the inevitable effects of monarchi
cal governments. There remains thei
only one quejtion to be conlidered, whai
is to be do le with this man ?
For myfelf, I seriously confefs that wher
I reflect o.i the unaccountable fol.y thai
rector d the executive power to his hands,
all covered as he was with perjury and
treason, 1 a n far more ready to condemn
the coaftituent alfembly, than the unfor
tunate prilbner Louis Capet.
But abitr.uted from every other conlid
eration, there i., one circumftatiee in hi:
life W.iicii. ought to cover, or at lead to
palliate a great number of his tranlgref
fions, and this very circum'tance afford
the French nation a blefled occasion of ex
tricating itfelf from the yoke of kings,
without <1 filing itfelf in the impurities ol
their blood.
It is to France alone, I know that the
United States of America owe that sup
port whicii enabled them to shake off the
unjust and tyrannical yoke of Britain.
The ardor and zeal which file displayed to
provide both men and money, were the
natural consequences of a thirlt for liber
ty. But as tJie nation at that time, re
tlra'med by the (hackles of her own go
vernment, could only act by means of a
monarchical organ, this organ—whatever
in other refpedts the obje£l might be—cer
tainly performed a good, a great action.
Lettlien tllefe United States be the fafe
gn ;rd and asylum of Louis Capet. There,
nereafter, far removed fro m t ; le miseries
and cnmea ot royalty, he Iliay learlli
I ruin the conlhint alpecc ot' public profpe
'»«■>, tii-iiCutf true system of government
: 0i ! ,1;b > nof kinfes, -bn t in fair, equal
ami honourable reprefent :I tion.
In i"ci itiiig tnis and in
juiittintr tins prupolition, I conlider my
.fti a i i a citizen ot ooth Countries. I sub
mit i: as a citizen ot America, who feels
the debt of gratitude which lie owes to
?vcry French mm". I submit it also as a
nan, who, although the enemy oi kings,
:annot iorget that they are fubjeft to hu
man frailti/s.
I Cupport my proposition as a citizen oj
he French repubiic, because it appears tc
ue tlie bell, the moifc politic measure,
hat can be adopted.
As far a, my experience in public lift
extends, I hive ever observed, that the
jreat mass of the people are invariobly juli
)oth in their intentions and in their object.
>ut the true merhod of accompl fhing thai
• ffect, does not always (hew itfelf ia the
irft instance.
For example, the Englith nation hat
groaned under the defpot'ifm of the Stu
irts. Hence Charles the firft loft his life :
,'et Charles the second was restored to al
he plenitude of power. which his fathei
lad loft.
Forty yearr had not exp : red, when the
mie family ft, ove to re establish their an
cient oppressions, so the nation then ban
died from its territories the whole race
Die remedy was effec'ual. The Stunr 1
amily funk into obfeurity. confoundt dit
eh with the multitude, and is at lengtl
extinct.
I heFrench nation,more enlightened thar
England was at that time, lia carried hei
meafnres of government to a greatei
length. France is not ratified with ex
posing the guilt of the monarch. Ihe ha:
penetrated into the vires and horrors o
the monarchy. She has (hewn them cleai
as day light, and forever crufned that infer
ual system ; and he, whoever he maybe
that ihould ever dare to reclaim thofc
rights, he would be regarded not as a pre
tender, but puniHied as a traitor.
Two brothers of Louis Capet have ban
ifh.ed themselves from the country ; bui
they are obliged to comply with the fpirii
and etiquette of the courts where they re
fide. They can advance no pretensions or
their own account, so long as Louis fhal
live.
The history of monarchy in France, wai
a system pregnant with crimes and mur
ders, cancelling all natural ties, even thofc
by which brothers are united. We know
iow often they have afMinated each o
ther, to pave a way to power. As these
hopes which the had reposed in
Louis XV Ith. are fled ; the last whieh re
mains rests upon his death, and their litu
ation inclines them to desire this cataftro--
phe, that they may once again rally round
a more active chief, and try one further
etfort under the fortune of the ci-devani
iVJonljeur and d'Artois.
That such an enterprise would precipitate
them into anew a'oyfs of calamity and dis
grace it is not difficult to forefee ; but yet
it might be attended with mutual loss, and
it is our duty as legislators, not to spill a
drop of blood, when our purpose may be
effevUially accomplinied without it.
It has already been proposed to abolifl:
thepunifliment of death : and it is with in
finite fatisfa&ion, that I recollect the hu
mane and excellent oration pronounced bj
Roberfpierre, on that fubjeel, in the Con
ftituent Aflembly. This cause must fir<d
its advocates in every corner, w here en
lij2.hteneel politicians, and lovers of human
ity ex ft ; and it ought, above all, to fine:
them in this aflembly.
Monarchical governments have trainee
the human race, and inured it to the fan
-siiinary arts and refinements of punish
ment j and it is exactly the fame punifh
nient, which has so long; (hocked the light,
ami tormented the patience of the people
that now. in their turn, they pra£ljfe ir
revenge on their opprefiors. iWt it be
comes us to be itricMy on our guard againfl
the abomination and pervcrfity of monar
chical examples; as France has been the
irft of European nations to abolish royal
:y, let her also be the firft to abolish the
punifiiment of death, and to find out a
milder and more effectual substitute.
In the particular cafe now under confi
guration, I submit the following propofi
tio s-: — i ft. That the National Convention
liall pronounce fenteace of baniflimept on
Houis ami liis family. 2. That Louis Ca
pet fhal 1 be detained in prison till the end
of the war ; and at that epoch for the sen
tence of banishment to be executed.
LONDON, February 18.
The plan of the French is to carry on the
war principally against the commerce anci
the finances of England ; and one of their
chief objects will be, to deprive her for
ever of the carrying trade with America.
For this purpose, an a£ent was lately dis
patched from the executive council tc
Philadelphia. They hope, also to feduct
our Weft-India iilinds, by opening the
ports of France to their commodities, free
of all duties, giving independence to their
own colonies, and inviting them into a
Foederal Union witli the Britilh islands,'
America, and France.
The Ottoman Porte has obliged 74.Choi
feul Gouffier to leave Constantinople, and
avowed t s intentions to recognize the new
republic 1 of France.
The Sultan is now miking; preparations
for a war again It RuHia. Die recovery
of the Crimea is laid to have lately become
the o'sjeft of" his ambition; anTin tifis
proje rt lie is promised to be aiihied with a
French Heec.
Tile en-oeror is expect".! to repair, in n
few weeks, to the army "before Frankfort,
in order 10 open the approaching cam
paign.
1 lie court of Vienna tins agreed, thai
the king of Denmark ihall lurniii: his triple
contingent for HoUiein in money, and no!
in men.
Polietier, the member of the French na
tional convention, who was a(ia;!inated bj
a ruffian royalilt, for having voted for the
kings death, was a mag of confiderablt
fortune—He was owner of two of the si
nelt eltates in Franco ; St. Fargeau ill Pui
faye, and Mont Joye near Autun. At
though he had a \ ery superb house in Pari*
he lived, according to the present fylteu
of felf-elenial in Paris; in a (mail apartmei.
on the fourth floor—His father had beei
rigorous to hi#vafl'ais and the for, deemcc
hiivfait bound to re r -lir his errors. Hi
wife was' the daughter of Fleury—Slu
brought liini one datigh er, living now
and died herfelf of a niilK fever, ielie
titr hail tour brothers by the fcend mar
riage ot his father, \t-ry coifcientKH.!.;
he refufed to become a number of any o
the clubs of Paris.
rhe ve lfi?l of the latelamented Mr. Run".
fey. to fail wind and tide, h late
ly been tried, and was found, to fail loir
knots an hour. '1 he follow iftg is the prin
ciple upon which it moves :
A pump of tuo feet diameter, wnuigl.l
by a (team engine, forces a quai tity e>f wa
ter up through the keel., 'ihe'va.ve i:
hen (hut by the return of the ii'oke
which at the fame time forces the watei
through a channel or p.pe of (ix in
ches square, lying above and jiarallel tc
the keelson.out at the ftern,tinder the rud
der, which has alefs dip than iiiual to per
mit the exit of the water. The impetus oi
the water,forced through the square Chan
nel, against the exterior water, aits as ar
impelling power upon the vclfel.
If any thiilg could add tothepity exci
ted in every generous bosom, by the fn'ier
mgsof the, royal family of France, it h
the miftrable want and difficulties ir
which ihey are now involved : The queer
is unable to procure her Ton a shirt, with
out applying to the commtKns of Paris. She
has lately represented, that out'of twenty
four Ihi.i . wliieh her foil wears, nine art
in rags, and the reft too flu,rt for him..
She-requests a supply of fifteen new fliirts.
(Mmiltej'ial paper)
Mr. Lloyd, pursuant to his sentence
Hood yesterday in the pillory,<oppofite the
Royal Ertch nge, for the space of one
hour. It will be rfcrtieinbered, that f*pi
the b.ll polled up in the set prison, ex
prefling hi opinion ag-inlt a war will
France, and in rawurjnf a cOnrt reform.
&C. he was sentenced to three le irs irh
prifoiiment in Newgate. an<l to itfihd,. du
ring that period, once in the pillory. ]t
lias been the cuftomhitherto, never to car
ry the sentence of p ilory into execiftinr
till near tile expiration of the imp. i on
ment to which any oi'.ender is doomed ;
and the humanity of tiiis cuPoni is obvi
ous, inafmoch as it . fiords a funicient time
for the fermen. of the public mind to be
allayed.
To Mr, Lloyd, however, the benefit o.'
this culloni w a not exiendt d. As soon n
lie afcendcd the pillory he began to addnefg
the people—inftanily an order was giveu
to tighten the pillory round his neck. in
such ; manner as to-deprive him of tilt
power of speech. Mr. Lloyd, b-y the mo
tion of his hands, appeared to be in great
agony ; nevertheless the teniion was" not
tlecreafed tor the remainder of the hour.
When Mr. Lloyd was removed from the
pillory, his face exhibited a very livid hue.
and for some moments he was unable re
speak ; at length with some difficulty he
exclaimed, " On this spot the great Pyni
was pilloried—he lived, however, to fee
tjiofe principles applauded, for which he
who .do-med to fufter a lenience so igno
minious.' Mr. Lloyd was immediately
conducted to Newgate tofulTer the thre*
year. imprisonment, to which the court ol
king's bench has doomed him.
Of the people- nffembled, many applaud
ed, and others hilled Mr. Lloyd. Thole
who hilled, conducted theijjC'ln » with pe
culiar indccericy. A Prnlßan who was
amwng the number of those who applaud
ed, was pelted with mi,el and dirt, ami
very narrowly escaped with li e.
Collot d'He, bois io mentioned, in some
of the French papers, as the new rnjivll r
for the home department ; but he hat!
not been appointed on Saturday, I alt.
In general Ciifiine's army are said to
bemore than lopo women in the dress of
men. This explains an article in the
Frankfort Gazette, 'which dates, that one
of the French officers taken at Kockiteini,
was loon alter delivered of a line boy.
Sever*} French frigate s are now' poop
icruifv in dilwrcr.e pans vf she Atlantic.
Another of tiiefe heroines tal: -n at Pu -
re:;, was iui'.:.d«to u.ve received three
wounc!.
Tile imperial Catharine nmy probably
f fen appear 1:1 that molt obiioxiott, ot' .11
charac'.crs,a Democrat. There are itrong
chat ii:e is now eticoiira«iu g
ct republican party in Sweden agaia'V he
rege.lt, whom me hates rather -more ti)an
.he irtves royalty.
For the National Gazette.
'-p-HE imprc-ffion which the fate of the
la;e king ot'Fracce Raises in'thir part
o. i.ic world i; gf a r.acuri; too exlraordi
itmy toi remain unnoticed. t'r«viou% to
m enquiry into the pa> ticulars of traiiiac
tions relative to an event R> lir.enlarly im
portant, it might not be ii.ipr'.j.c-r 10 n?-
nark, that ail the accounts wiiicli we have
received are derived thro' the ibajjiiei of
>>ngn/h paperr which, on theflrek-jiuicta
fiou,cannot bijt.be;fufpttted.
'I he interdi w Inch a man feels for a f«|,
low being who has been so wrcuj.t d a„ to
inch from his crime; wi exemplary pu
nii|.merit, is highly worthy oi p'raifj*. If
bf th 1 ca(c wuh regard to the fafc of.
Louis, the fentunent is not only .tx.ctjfeable
out </ii).me»dphie ; but if this interclt
aril :: from co.;fi(ier;ng Louis as. a. bei;-.;r
"1)0. e men ai;d law s, 11 rpull come f.ort of
.s j I'ipole, ii intended trhi*o\y a cenfnre
j 11. a r.aticn v. and human
areluo w ell t . own .to be doubted. Let
. , i.uwever, examine ii' there be any
: un.ds ior ftich an accusation.
i he pa.-tizai.s «>f. monarchy delight in
epukilling Lou s as a prince whole only
:n.re wm to relieve the fuffering.-. of his
ple % how canA'ch an assertion befup
i.itiil : It ib wtil known that the expen
< of,lns luxurious court were so extrava
anil) cjiorinpus, that all the r. xes, mto
crab(e as they were, and which were fill
ii.crealing, were in. ufficient to fmmlv the
: oll.esol the royal fandfj. It „as on this
ecouftt ...U Louis was obliged to co/ivene
.ne al.eu.biy ol the notables, with tlie ex
pre: i.itt ntion oi taxing the two.privileged
;L)(iie> oi the nation, tiie nob'jity :-rd tier
»'* wnft "t!y refufed to bear their
'iu..e °i ihe inipoils, tiie pretext,
• ial L.u i't i emiej of she rate w ere lullicient
to baiai.ee the expenditures, if. the expen
es of the court: were reduced. Here it
nil'lit be allied, if Lotus sincerely delired
•° rch "' e im - PSPJ»Ie. why did he not re
ice the expends of ihe court? Vr hy did
le ret suppress- the innumerable penlions
. -ted to the favourites, fyfophanU, and
m il like that hovered about him ?
1 lie aflembly broke up without coir,ire
• > any agreement, fatisfsftorveither to ihe
*"'S 9 r the people. The king, then, by
"S Own authority, ei'lablilhed the ft amy
JCt, which hore entirely upon the induf
.""is part ol the community. But this
bang exacted with difficulty, and
•ol inadequate to the expenfesof the so.
► unintiu, Louis Called, a meeting of "the
ates gc leral, in hopes the representative*
>± t ,e commons would enable him to im
k taxes oil the nobility and. the clerry.
i>i mime hirai'elf a majority, the king
granted to the. commons, a m imbejr of re
. -itatii'ts, equal to thoLe of the pci
i. bodies.
- lie r. peated insults offered by the clergy
iiu. nobility to the commons, fort eel "the
Utter,;o 0..»1e their efforts to humble tliofe
t.it ..ni u elrfn peity tyrants Their
■ ontiiiH?! (jppofition to the welfare oi: the
> .te,, Kindled in the brenfK of the active
part (if the nation, that flame ps liberty,
:he sudden progreH of which fu ala med
Lotn , that to prevent its etfetls he called
:or the .(iirtance oi ihe military, who were
ameihate.y collefte'd round Paris .with .an
mention to compel the people to submit to
i tyrant s will. Hut a wife and over
ruling providence checked all thefe.dread
a. ...eofures, ihe LS .flile was taken, aaA
.ne troops ot defpoiif.n were obliged to
withdraw,
1 he National .Aflembly, out of r fpeftto
le n itional prejudice in favour of king",
'lifted Louis to the highelf decree of ho
ior and confequpnce that a citizen can af
iiie to. St)i h a proof of confidence, after
i!i tnat had happened, would have awa
»-net! in the mi t unfeeling man every fen
imeiit of eternal gratitude—Hut monarchs
n e not acquainted with gratitude : op
arcfTion and murder are their trade, and
creachery their leading cbarafleriftic. The
incerity and credulity of the nation were
leieivnl in the conduct of the king, ard
:!n-y lv*d now only to lament the blind con
lidence they had placed in afaithleftdefpot.
Ii words and oaths were thecriterion of
mfn.thegreateft ion fidencemight have been
repaf.d i.i Louis. But how did he keep
his promises? Was it in quitting the polk
•hit was entrnfted to him, after havin«r
been replaced in it against the will of the
na. on ? Was it by mafl'acres committed oil
peaceable and unarmed citizens, who were
haning a petition on the' altar of liberty, in'
tiie Champ de Mars ? Wasiiby inviting all
tlie tyrants of i- nrope to coalesce for the
parpofe of. cnifhing men, w ho ejaimed the
molt equitable ol' all rights, the of
"Sfete ■ W"is it by wafting and fending
■f the. national treasures to rebels and.
traitors, who wiilied to rer.d the bosom oftheir ftiu.itry ? Was it, in ;7nu"t. for having
«m the tenth of August caused wine an;
mon.-y to be diltribntfed'amongft the Swiss
gn.ii(l . to provoke them to fire on the
p. o;>i e ?
. It has, i-c'eed, been denied that Louis:
gave or ders to fire. Well, let it be fo —
Bitt if his wish had been to spare the blood
of the citizen;, why did he not give orders
to his guards to cease their firing?
It not be amiss here to oblerve, that,
a long time before this happened, the Na
tional Affembiy had begged Louis to dif
m:is the Swiss guards ; which he had con
ftanttyrefiifed to do. If all these circum
nces are not enough to convince the mod
prejudiced that Louis deserved the punifii
ment he differed, what possible crime can
■jl traitor commit, that can merit punith
liient ac all? Was Arnold, and fomeother
American traitors, a hundredth part fc
culpable, as he, for whose fate To many
Americans now manifeft so reftniful a
regret.
It may, perhaps, be objected, tliat the in
violability of an executive officer ought
to have prevented sentence of death /Voir
yaffil' -,• Vain objection 1 weak and Qelu
"live idea t It is well known that a major
ity of the conflituent affembiy confided o:
men from the humbled privileged oider >
ot';ers of them were bribed by the civi
lilt. These were the men that decreed th<
inviolability of thefupreme executive ; noi
that they fuppo ed it would consolidate th(
happiitefs of the people, but because it wa
advantageous to tllofe who decreed it.
I call upon the common sense of ever]
rational creature, to determine, whethei
there can be a more {hocking abftindit;
than that of the inviolability of a pubiii
officer. If the people were deceived b;
the reprelentatives, did they lose the righ
of punilhing the officer who abtifed tin
power entrulted to him? What ! cloathet
in his inviolability, was a public officer t(
squander the treafurcs of hiscondituenis—
was he to (hed, with impunity, t..e blood o
his fellow citizens : —was he to bring in fe
rocious barbarians to spread fire and fwori
through the nation, and rivet eternally tin
chains of (1 ivery ?
O Columbians! 0 my countrymen! 1
confide myfelf in believing that ftich opin
ions ire only supported by aspiring hypo
crites ; men among us, who under th<
veil of pretended pity, endr«> our to ren
der odiotls the spirit of repubiicanifm ; a ic
would crulh alike the rights of reason anc
of man.
Heroes, who have fallen ; brave and vir
tuous citizens \vho have been profufe o
blood in the facre;l cause of liberty ! fay
did you ever e iter:ai 11 an idea of an invi
olable officer ? Did you lay the founda
tioa ,of your country's Jiappinefs only t<
be tow on public fe.rvant. the right of beinj
above the laws ? If this was not your aim
why fhauld any one suppose that twenty
fix millions of men have been so devoid <>:
common aj to give theii
assent to the decree of the confl .tuent at
fembly, declariug Louis inviol able !
As we are at a great distance from th<
ficene of action, it would be p'rhaps the
moll prudent part to suspend our opinions
in regard to the justice of the decree tha
sentenced Louis, till direftintelligence ar
rives from France. If necelfity has com
pelled the National Convention to pas
sentence on the late king, what can be faic
again (I it ?—Salus publica prima lex.
But if, notwithstanding. after all that ha
been said in vindication of a people figluinj
in defence of the rights cf human nature
there should yet be any among us unfeelinj
enough to imprecate ill success on t e na
tional cause, m iv all such, sooner or later
have the ineffable honor and happiness ol
so far experiencing the favours end blef
fingsof royalty, as to be thrown into feme
ba tile, foinejipaud nt, a Magdebourg, ;
dungeon, or a prifon-(hVp, theie to sweat
away !ix, eight, or ten months, or as many
years, to ruminate at pie sure on the sym
pathetic kindness of their IDOL, and tc
curse the popular governments, which art
now dawning upon a long opprefled and
long benighted world.
SCEVOLA.
April 13.
Extk Acts from late French Papers.
1. The motives for the execution of
Louis are thought to have been motives oi
policy as well as of necelfity ; that his death
might be a terrific memento to all the
-browned fovereign.s of Europe. The fall
of the head of Louis will set the heads ol
all the European kings a quaking. When
George the 3d and Pitt hear that this head
is fallen, they will instantly raise up their
hands to feel if their own are upon their
Ihoulders—After such an example, the peo
ple of every nation will fay, when they call
an eye towards their monarths —" In truth
these heads are not so Jacred, but that, il
found guilty, they may be cut oft' also."
2. There are at present few Eiijrlifhmeri
who do not feel and manifeft a lively re
sentment for the fate of Louis the 16th-
Th'ife however who belch out the' bitterell
imprecations agaiult France are not those
who most regret the unfortunate king. In
the moment of weeping for his fate, they
betray the joy of their hearts by inflntiating
that the confluences of this event will be
fatal to tTie new republic. A perv.fal of
the London papers will fufiice to rivj an
idea of tire 11-uumepts trt the nnniUerial
i.d oppolition parties. " Abllrafted from
the enormity of the deed (fays the gazette
ci.llcd The Times) the tragical death of
Louis will operate a great political advan
tage for £u. ope. Monsieur, Louis's bro
ther, will be recognized regent of France
by all the pou ers of Europe ; and we have
authority to believe that Great-Britain
u ill be one of the firft to recognize hi in a
such. The present moment is the most fa
vourable tor declaring war. .It is highly
probable that the proportion will come be
fore parliament next week, (Jan. 28.) If
the w a r j las b een hitherto deferred, it is
the of deep policy ; for at no period
was war ever more consonant to the wishes
of the people. Every tiling leads lis to be
lieve that Spain will unite Iter forces to
those of other powers against France. Lord
St. Helens is to set out to-morrow as am
bassador to Madrid, and we have no doubt
but Spain will act vigorously in concert
with England, &c."
The t.bove quotation contains the whote
leeret of Britifti mHllfterral policy. Hence
we may know how to estimate the value ol
the apparent neutrality they have hitherto
aroferved, and the lincerity o' their lamen
tations for the execution of Louis the if.th.
The opposition party speak more like
Viends oi liberty and humanity. They
nd*eed, in some fort disapprove of the ri
gorous fenfeVice againlt rfie late kiirg. a
entence. of the jullice of which poftc-ri y
alone wili oe the proper judges. There :
eafon to tliink this, party in the Englilh
nation lincerely delii't d the prevention t>f
th'e bloody catastrophe, and were eve. op
poled to the 'odious and infamous niealuies
which have been resorted to t'f combine
England and a huO of other w*rs agamft
France.—" The fric. d. ;,i liberty (f }-
the Morning Chronicle) have done every
thing in their power, as individual?, tofne
the unfortunate king. If our miniflry had
maintained the fame upright delign;. and
been equally zealous, there is nctt a 'doilfft
but Louis mrght have Been butthry
»iihed to make his death the great incite
neut to a popular war. War is now ine
?itaMe ; the popular argument ior i.t isj
the death of the king ; and tifed v ith luc
efs. The blood and treasures or England
ire now to be lavilhed, under pretence ot
•eltoring a nation of mad men to reason
ind humanity. To contend with lo.lv is
to be guilty of folly—no man of good sense
ivould dispute with an ideott—But, £f&y
they) the French will propagate their tncul
'deat thro' the world.—By v hat means ? —
The Englilh miniflry fay, the French want
:!tf tinewi ©f war, and recommend 10 the
lation a crusade against France, who are
to be ealily crullied, because, it Teems, they
ire in went of every thing, and their inter
lal divilions will ruin them. If this be
ast, why interfere —why not rather leave
the French to dellroy fhetslelve ? — 111
hort, the folly of the E'lelilli is epidemic,
rhey are convinced that trie political sys
tem of the French cannot be eftaWifhed,
until yet they mult needs join in the com
bination to delh oy it."
*3. The follow! ig is translated from a Pa
ris paper of the Ift of February. It i
there given as a real extrail of a letter
from a Frenchman reliding in London
(dared the 25th of January, J 793) anrf
directed to his friend in Paris. J
"You were right iti refilling' to come
aver here. This is no longer a place for
Frenchmen, and tit this inftanr we,are ex
lofed to constant inliWt", efpecia|ly in pla
res. of public resort- The aristocrats arc
welcome at the court,and the coti..itution
fts are admitted into fonie societies ; but
50th the one and the other fecm lofl in tiie
general indignation that has been artfirffy
excited agai'tirt the French nation. Here
tofore v e were honoured v. ah the appel
lation of French dog, at ireieiu iti? French
tvger, with which it". eafs are con'antly
sflailed. There .re fcafVety'aftv resecta
ble French here now except pHefts As
to tiie friends of the republic, they are g'ad
to hide themselves an<l in no .Ihajte med
dle >vith politics fttr fear of popular in in it
and the inquisitorial eye of t e n;*.v b;i!,
which leaves 11s entirely to the mercy of
mini Hers. There is nothing here iti fa£lt
that affords fafety even for life itfelf to a
miserable French republican, except some
little remains of national spirit and piiblii
good manners. To Increase the htitred
against the French, the ministerial papers
are busy in inventing lies and calumnies,
and in order to give some colour ol justice
to Lord Grenville's inqtiili'tion-bill, they
pubHfcthat the French here are plotting
again!! the government, exciting a general
revolt, fcheining to take the tower, open
the prisons, and pillage the bank and other
national eftablilhments. The news oi
the execution ot Louis the 1 fitli has com
pletely the animolity of the Londoners,
not orilv or the class called the people, but
even of the more moderate, so that we have
110 friends here, at Jeaft none in pub:ic—
The news arrived yefteiday at 8 in the
morning, but the decree had arrived the
evening beforewhich limited the king's ex
ecution to 24 hours. The king and queen
were to have gone in theeven;ng to a p ay,
but caused notice to be given that they
would not attend on account of the mc
lancholy from France. At the ope
ra theypiayedCynjon, in wflich piecc there
is a proceftjpn where the insignia of tJic
fevcral orders of chivalry arc made to pals
in review. Y. hen the French (landard
appeared, liuTes, curies, and even howling;,
were heard from ail parts of the houie,
and rile scene was dispatched as fall as pof
lible. These colours were the old white,
and not the republican tri-color. 1 he
play Wifig finiihtd, the audien.Ce left the
houl'e and tlfe farce \yas omitted. Ycfter
day, al)_otib!icexhibitions were prohibited,
and this morning ail the minillerial papers
were bordered with black, as onoccaiions
of the greatest public grief.—All this de
lignates a feriotis spirit of \\ar in the Eug
lifh. To counteract it and humble* it, the
republic itnift ciill tip all its strength, and
it is inimerife': that Freiich enthuflafiu
mutt be put in aiiion which despises fear.
The old arguments pguinft an invalron oi
England are now wholly out ot date ; and
depend on it,- it is a measure which the
Englilh dread above all others ; in fa£t it i-.
tire only decilive measure the republic car
take; and with 500,600 of the IblfiiefS ol
liberty, and a hnmlred million of affignSts,
1 could think no undertaking whatever a
ralh one."
4. Ceremonial of the Burial of Le Pel
letier, member of . the French jsationa'
Convention, who voted for the death oi
Louis the XVich, confequenct
thereof afiiiffinated Hy M. Paris.
'■ The body of the deceafvd, half nak
ed, u as.laid li-po'i the iatuc. bloody bed or
which he expired, leavingqxyofed*to view
the principal w c.ur.d he. hid received, am
his i.us turned towards it.. The cutlass.
6y whidi h'e was nlluflmatcd, was cr.rritc
oh jiiltf s with his cloafhsand linen, ftafiitt
with blocd. After arriving at tire fi> 1.1 arc
' iie. y end' jne,'riie body \. as laid on tiw
fame pcffeiUl, w Inch but a flew months be
fore (ucported the . jlatc.e of Louis the
XTvtii. Tile Pcdei.iai was ornamented
With vhite ci'rVfiius, wifti wreaths yf Oak
and CyprelV. Oil one licit? Wer, tlie Wo! d
(the kilt'fpokeirby Le PeHetier) '• I art
con enfto have lry fcJood (tied for 111;
uou cry, lhope.it u lil be of life to ad
vanct the canle or liberty;; and equality
a*.d to : cLtcit its enemies."—The fume
Words v\ ere uiai tied upon . a pair ol co
lours; irafic?yn 'tliii occasion. in the froril
of the proctf!i "i w;is carried a lloite in■
fcr'bed with • tile ck'tiaration of the rtghti
of men, witter . .igtine of liberty and t'n<
arms of. the £4.0 pai fluents of Fiance.—
At poon, the -members of the Natipna.
Convention attended at the square lie v en
dome (now called the square of Pikes),
flic PrefideTU Iravi. graced tjpbn the hear
of the denea.'sW an oaken crown and i
wreathe of flov.err, the pr'ocellion began,
Fir ft, the cavalry ; muffled drums in black;
!etach«,<ents of tile .military,; the judicial
3odies; the public milliliter* ; the male anc
female member of tlie Jacobin club, o;
which the de'eeafed was President; the fed
?rates; occt laitly the whole N'ationa
Conveiflaon doled the procefiion, whi
made a halt at the jacobin;, and fevera
th r places. At every halt the Attorne;
General Chaumet read the decree
« hich »-ve to Le Pelleticr the honors du<
:o great men, accompanied with music.
When they had rt ached the Pantheon
Pelietier'.s brother spoke an oration ; anc
Jliyninfo liberty w as-chanted. The mem
jersof the convention then took „n oail
lo be faithful to the popular cause, and ;
lynin to liberty terminated the funeral
Oi*der and harmony prevailed thi o 1 th<
whole ceremony, and the people retired
lamenting the I .il of a patriot, for \vhof<
loss, perhaps, degenerate Europe wouU
not reckou even a monarch an equiva
lent 1
[Inf.-rted by delire.]
From the G: NFRAL ADV ERTISER
oi" lalt Thurklay.
Tolhc Freemen of Fen'jyh'tviia,
Fr.Ll.OVv CtTI ' F.-NS,
TO"o;ve an opinio:: U| on public men a;
is well as public measures fsnot only th<
■i 1 :v, but itlsthe duty of men whn will
:o koatimi'e frte. Whoever qiieftions :!u
Tilth of ihe one, or the propriety of t. 1
ather is"an cn,mv to equality. How eye
pffential it may be to have given princi
ales in government asaflandard to diref
us as well as to resort to, it is not less im
portant, that those men who have the ad
ministration li otild harmonize in theii
condufi: with the principles of the govern
meat under which they act. Every devia
tion foul tberightline of republfcanifm ,
an a:tack upon our constitution, and ever;
such attack merits the proscription of fret ■
men. This state has hirherto been air,oi;j
theforemoft ill the glorious cause of re
publicanifm ; her interest. her fame, anc
her happiness require a rigid observance
of those duties. In our present form oi
government gfeat powers ar? delegatec
to the Governor, he has not only the su
preme executive authority but he has ;
larfe portion of iegiflative power, and hi:
negative is equal to two thirds of the legif
latm e. A truil so great requires qualities
of the firft&rder; an ofEce of such mag
nitude demands principles not only pttr«
but unfufpeiled : As you are toeivci a go
>'t?rnor ..at the nest general -e'etiion, I
will take Hie liberty to offer "a' twin i'or,
your cor.lideration, Uhofe cfiarnfUr m;.«
lice itfelf cam.ot itrraigii. Frtdeiyk yui
guftus Muhlenberg is. known td you, Jj?
•as served you in some ot tile moli im
portant offices under your -government,
and he has served you v ith fidelity- [ lit?
uniform and firm triend to his country t!ti
ring chelate revolution, the ehrly sfnd lini
dy supporter of the ftileral goteniiriint,
he cl.nms the coi (idem eo! freemen ; i:n
fliaken in his principles.upr ght m his view;,
and firm in his decision*, lie has difviiar&eit
the various duties which you have aCigytd
him with (crttpuloifs exattnefs ; rrpjiblicai.fi
in his manners as well as in his'principle,'
informed by education anil experience of
the full value of freedom, he wilt prove
a fir in friend to the cause of republicanism.
His intimate acipiaintailie with the inter
ests of this itate joiiic-tf to his habits of pub
lic Inifirkfs, 'will make him an sttentiv*
and tifefui lie-ward. Religion and jh'orali
ty will fmd him their friend, and it exam
ple is ufeful to the preservation of virtue,
he may be weighed in a balance, and ire
wilt not befound. wanting. Such is the
m?n recon .niendt d to,'you, 1 trust he will
m'eellyour approbation.
A FARMER.
Lancffter county, April sth 1795.
The printer* efthje .itate are re-jtieftetl
to give the above address a place in their
papers. ,'jj •
PHILA D tLPHIA.
April. 17^
Thr ?rencH are p. , pared fcr war (f <ys
a lett'er irolii Eng.-nri) and if they at«
t: 11:!nilijoi.s among UieVnfVlves, will be ; n
ovcr-match for all the despotic n:on;:rchs
ill Furqpe. Gen. Liitu.ur.er \> a at Of
tc-i;d tile,--4th of February, and counted up
on being i Air.iit i'ciamljy,the 2lit-
The northern Irilh volunteers were met
in r.oSvfcuiiotj -Dii .gaanoii 011 the 15tt*
o;' Feßr'u ry, to de ;beraie on tile emanci
pation of the Roman C-SthMW# and a re
form in the irifli pui-lhsmc-nt. It was ex
pected one object of this convention wetitff
be ito declare the feufeof the nation ugainft?
a war with France, and another, to life
ev'try pi.fSble nieans to preserve internal
ti'ttlqtwity. The'government party, how
ever, Shewed tfcemfeivrt extremely inir::i
cal-ro the convention, and watched tis prr-
I iiuin; ry motions with- an eye or the nv '>
femnhipus jealousy. The people and t.*
parliament w ere direilly eppofed to secl»
other, the latter addremng the.king in fir*
vonr of that meafire, arc! the former c?e
claring the sense of the people rg'aia-.t r.
A complete repeal of ali opprefiive la\vs
- n the part ot the people,
and 110 tempo izing pateh-wo: k ey.peilicnfc
—all or 'nothing wthe ur.iverral cry. It
was remarkable, however, tlmt Flood,
Grattmi. and Tome other flaming patp ::s
hud become lnke-warin, and began to (!H»
cover fig 11 f of .in intereii again J} the people.
" Uilltfs the Pruffi :n army is able to
flog.Gen. Dumotirier's progress ff-.ys 3
foi ei ;npaper 1 there islittle doubt,from the
present temper of the beijjic tiatian, b .c
he will fucce'ed ill his ent'erprizes ag -i:lt
Holland. T c d'rftontchrs w Ith the Atifr
trian government, which a few 5 ears- a; o
werecheckeci by the prcfenreo'f an ;. 1-1. 7
of mercenaries, ar< by no m« ar.s at aneiuu
and the appearance of Demourier, v..:;i
any pro'fpeci of fivecefs, would bifiilg ma:-.y
thoi.f; ds to the republican uandWd
Fi s"ce
O.i Thtirfday 'nft tfie- l-y'r.-iture «-f '"-e
date ot Pennrylvatiia adjoi.- ' e to in t
again 011 the 4111 Tue.ftl„;. in Aia;,ii!'t iu x,t.
JUST PUBLI.SHE D,
[Price ok- tjvartrr fa C' ■ J
THE
LAWS
OF TJ»t
. UN IT E D ST ATE S,
Palled at the lall Sefljon of Corigrtis, w Jiich
complete vol. 11.
by Authority►
A Complete I^ T DEX is added far. rhfe vrlnrre.
Phi'adelphiz— Printed by Swmj? f >
Pr -'liters of the Laws of the United States j and
fold by them at their Office No Maiket
«S »eet : also by the principal Dookitrllers, where
vol I. is to be had.
TO THE PUKUC'.
T7T7.HEREAS .n a' . chment at the iuit of f!"r,
uel fml y and NathamU lm' Iy, cx-cut a.
sf the testament and I.vft wiil't-f Irri'ay, de
ceased, has iViued out of tht C-urr of
judicature 6f thefia eot New-Jeifey,the
.mds vf Garrtt Voorhels, Jate <if the countv of
Msic'lefex, and fiate n .forc»aS'd, r? f, jrnab : to
ftift Tucfiny -in- Str'errber, fevoitccn' Imnrfed
ninety-tv —Notite ii heVcltv wiven ro the
laid Garic; Vjo;!1 is, that »nlef« h --car anj
file special bail o the fa id action " t
will be entered ap.ainft him, by defaul', arid thr
lands so attached fold soT 1 her fati<fa£fioiV v i f such
of his creditors as llijli appear to he juftU entitled
to any dew.and thereon, and (hall apj ly-f - that
purpose, according to the form of the statute ia
such cafe made «nd provided.
By order of the Court,
Apr"! 27. ia\v. ly H'OWtLL, CikLONDON, Feb. 14.
" To US whd a e acquainted with the
resources of France and with the
■ipirit and unanimity that now prevails
through the whole \iountry, the idea ol
conquering it appears infinity ; but vyhi'L
the momentary excesses of an outraged
and justly exasperated mnltiti.de, are at
ptefent so malicroufly dwelt on, in order tc
depreciate the-generous uni». rfal principle,
ou which the na ion let us refer ou,
ttader3 to the savage horrors now daily ex
erriied on the frontiers, without a shadow
of mtereft or provocation, by the difcipli
-ied armies of P,ufli,i and Austria, undei
the command of that humane, experienced.
*nd plilofo, hie general, the Duke ol
Crunfwick the valiant brother of otii
TOyal George, and in order to give some
of the tendern fs and companion ol
the Fren h we C all relate the
fallowing anecdote, the veracity of which
ii generally acknowledged throughout Pa
ris, and we ourselves heard it triumphantly
recorded by a young French ariftocrate,
who occasionally aflifted at the ceremony
M For a conliderable time before the
tenth of Augull, the roy lifts assumed
a very imperious tone, their numbers
were truly formidable, & they announced,
"wi hout refenre, their hopes, which with
them amountedto* certainty, of a counter
revolution, and their pastimes were adapted
to the {anguine expeditions they indulged.
" here ' las ecn a machine lately in
vented in France for the execution ol
criminals, called a Guillotine, after the
name of its inventor, is so contrived,
on dropping, instantaneously to fevei
the head fiom the body. In the aristo
cratic families, and chiefly among those
connected with the queen, it was the cuf
lorr. every day, as soon as d nner was fi
nish <!, to have one of those Guillotines in
miriia ur , brought in with the desert.
Arou d it were fixed figures repreftnting
form <ft e principal and mull obnoxious
patriots, Mess r s. D'Orleans, Condorcet,
B. iff. , Sjc About tie neck of each, w»t
n fml l phial containinga crimson Coloured
liqi'i .l pe> fume. A inagiftrate (one of the
P''rry) was appointed to fy the criminals,
21 in ar.edia .1 yon sentence being pro
OCtinred, by an ingenious mechanical pro.
Cess, 11.iwn dropped ti.e Gu llotine.the ear
ms at c -ice chopped off. and the blood
flu • ed, when the company w genera), and
p '.rticulai! v tne ladies, eag r!y and joyful
ly (teeped their handkerchiefs in t, and
rp plying it to tlieir noses, in extacy ex
claimed, is *h ! qn'il ell do. x, le 'ang dei
patrioSs !" " At I how fueet i«<this pat
riot blood J" for am.ngft them, as with
fine gentry n Lo idon, the -word pat
riot is an epithet of mock, ry and derision.
" Prom the al.ove well km wn faS, w<
le>ve our readers to conclu e, what the
result would have been, if victory had in
dined to the r fide. Eleven thoufa nd vi •
tirns were already pre. el'ined 10 the lock,
and itcfcrm tbe fu,:pofed tliere would havi
been much pains bellowed 00 the forma
tlca of tribunals, f r trial."
A description'of the GUI LLO INE
or fatal machine, by which the late ling ci
Jrror.ce fuffcred, and which takes its nanu
from the person whob-ought it into us*
ha? been induflrioufly handed the public.
Loth through Britilh and American pa
p rs, >' it h an apparent intent idn of height
ening the lierrer of t e aft—but note well,
the org;n of the ccnjlruH'ton ol it, and the
intention of the machine by the original pro
j/Sors, have been <«s indulirioufly concealed
It is with pleasure, by the help of a p. tri
otic corr fp'indent, (and to vindicate the
w.iys of GOD to n.an) that we do, tiiii
day, undeceive the public, with relp tc
this novel piece of mechauifiii by ; iTcr'ing
from good authority, that the GUIL
LO'J'INE was conftui&ed by th arijlo
crnts at fARts, that LOUIS infpedud it
with pleasure, ind t- at it was intended
to be used by t' e t-edublalle DUKE of
BRUNSWICK, in the beheading ofall the
Convention oj France, and others who II otild
not have been murdered by the sword, and
other means of affafTinat ion, of thf host who
fl ouldoppofehis ALL CONQUERING
MANIFESTO — What .1 change s hete!
Louis dug a pit for tens of th'Ujands—and
by the dirc&ibn, no drtuSt, of the unerring
hand of God—HE alone, fell into it J
Where, reader, is your ho ror now ! changt
it into The ether /cole—cries the ft ill voicr ol
confeienee turn your face frcrn MOV
ARCHS—fupport THE RIGHTb Of
MAN and of human nature.
PARIS, Feb. 6-
A deputation of the Du'ch patriots
at Paris appeared at the bar of the Nati
onal Conventi n, on Tuesday February 5,
and presented the following addrtfs :
" Legislators, the pairiots of Holland
at length form a hope of feeing liberty,
so long oppr ffed, reviving in their c»u'
,r y. The decree so worthy of you, pal
fed in the memorable fitting of the ill o !
February, will forever decide the fate o>
Europe.
" It declares war against the Stadthol
er, that is, against him who has eve
fhewn himfelf inimical to the French na
tion, who in the American wa r , enterec
into every intrigue that could tbunceraf!
the generous views of France, who reu
:lered useless the alliance concludid be
fween her and our'republi : in short, whi
[pared ro pains to (hew his h'tred of tht
French since they have recovered then
iberty. It is with justice that your de
:ree makes a diftindtion between William
)f Naflau with his adh.rents, and tht
ound part of the Batavian nation, tht
riends of liberty and equality ; among
whom we boast of ranking ourselves —
This equitable dillin&ion forms the ef
ence of your decree ; it is to us, not on
y the mark to which we yield our coufi
ience, but it demands alf& our nationa
jratirude.
" Legislators, for five years pall, we
lave been panting ast r this happy mo
■nent ; repulsed so long by every fpeciei
)fariftocracy, the hour is at L-ngth ar
ived, in, in which we can (hew ourfelvei
worthy to so low your steps, in which wt
lope that no intrigue of your enemies car
3re*ail against the national will. Som<
lew days more, and the fun will rife upon
mother free nation. A few weeks long
er, and the mouths of the Rhine will be as
ree as those of the Rhone.
" Legislators, despotism is laid low in
France—in other countries its fall is pre
paring ; the indignant people are every
where riling against the insolent tyrants
who had divided the earth among them
[t is to you,'t is to'the French that t e
j;reat example is due which has effranchi
"ed mankind.
" Shall we mention our principles, le
gators ?—Liberty and Equality, are the
livinities which reason offtisto mankind ;
thele are your'», ih y are otjr's, and wil
loon be those of the whole world. Le
if flators, if some flight mills have appear
;d to divide the patriots of our country
lome diversity of sentiment has been per
ceived among them, all is new cleared up
-very cloud isdifpelled The great m a
Pure which you have decreed the commor
and sacred interest of the country, the val
light which lince the loth of August hai
Tione in the face of all Europe, has uriitec
t very mind among us. There is nowbul
>neobjeft, but one fen'iment, bu' one
cry, it is the fall of despotism ; it is tht
trumph of ho'y Equality We prottfl
here with you that the h; ppinefs of man
is dependent on these irrefragable pr nci
pies, that t-vtry thing cught to difappeai
before the eternal t nth
' We rcj d from among us, we pro
nounce an-.thema against whatever is coil
triry to this ; and the regenerated Bata
vians, biaft'ng their descent from tht
fill ermen nt the fifteenth century, will
flievt themfclves woithv to march under
the b-imien < f the rights of man, with
the Sanj Culottes ofWulini and Jcmappe"
Fmm the Bo[lon Argus■
CBSFRVATIO S on the lituatton ol
FRANCE.
WE confi.iei every attempt to reftort
liberty to mankind, as a glorious exertion
in favour o virtue. he men, who t.kt
1 lead in the important contest, we adori
as patriots, and a;'mire as. heroes. Ourin
tegriiyand our reafm urge us to condemn
to ruin and infamy, the tyrants, whose ava
rice and umbition, render the greater pari
nt the human race miferab'e, wretched,
and unhappy.— tew days since the town
us B H< n was (homing for the vidtories
of FRANCE, and exulting in the prof
psiityof a filter republic. The neigh
bouring towns joined in the fellivity ; and
•he gazettes teemed with toails, emanating
si si the feelings of liberty, pattiotifm,
and democracy. Wt did not then ce
lebrate a kingdom. We rtjoiced that
France was rescued from monarchy. Hei
ci-devar.t monarch was (l ipped of his roy.
ahy, and we congratulated France, that kt
was the prisoner of the people. But, he
is n w no more, the horrors of a trial, the
deadly images of the fc -ffold and trie ax,
have had acccfs to our feelings—and the
world, from the tenor of our hewfpaper*,
may well conlider us as 'liftrafted with
pafiion. Certainly, we will do ou l selves the
honor to rcfle.; coolly before we decide.
Perhaps our moderafion, our prudence, our
mterell, and our reputation, a'l whilper us
to be iilent on the great occasion
The people of France have bee.i, for
several centuries, so inu.h opprefled by
their government, thai they had nearly 101 l
all ideas of the rights of man* They were
liable :o the rack, and the (lake, if they
ventured to have an opinion in religion
i lie bait le and the gallows, waited, with
great impatience lor him, who dared hut
to conceive a political fer.timent.. The
Princes and Nobility were exempt from
t xation—while the body of the people,
poor, naked, hungry and miferabl .-, toi.ed
to maintain the splendour of a court, and
the la a 1 fs diflipation of the nobles.—-
1 hat legal security which gives value to
poffeflions, and renders lif an objedt of
tlefire, was not known in that country :
1 tie lives and properties of the people were
held on the precarious tenure of the Will
of Favourites to a debauched and corrupt
ed government.
When a people, who have been long op
prefTed, rife to regain their freedom, tome
thing great and aflumfhing is to be ex
pected rhe mountain, whi< h long re
tains the melting lava, will burst forth
wi h an agitation proportioned to its re
iudance and fufterings.
ThepeopleofFrar.ee have, for a long
time palt, had noihing to do, but to re
gain their reeciom, or perish in the at
tempt— The Die is cajl I—The nati n,
r the monarch, mutt be the unhappy
yittim of the controversy. If the king,
he princes, and the nobles, had, at firlf,
igreed for t mixed government, and giv
:n the people some (hare in iheir own
: ncerns, the contelt would have been
nded. Bur, rhe monar h was the mere
Engine utAWOM'N! full of VICE,
IN I'RIGUE.DECEPTION, and DU
Pi.ICI 1 Y I —Flic princes were ntoxica
ed with the love of defpou'fm,—uliik
he nobles huuged their aibitrary powers,
ind thei tinjult and eppreffive pnvilej e.s,
i. the i arli g , bjeiSs of their hearts.—
1 hus fituateif, all compromise was at an
?nd, and flrength of party was left a3 the
"ole arbiter ol the impor.ant lonteft.
Wl.ile :hc king remained a= a confti
uent branch of the goveinment, the
means of felf-iiefcnce could not be procu
red : and theobftacles thrown in the way
if republicanism were infurmountabie.
We rejoiced when the National Convention
lad grasped the powers of felf defence.
And, while we piti d the fallen monarch ;
»'e exulted at tl e progress of Liberty.
But upon the dea'h of the man, who was
'nee a king, we rife in opposition to all
nir profeffions and principles—Our Ga
tcttes teem with fentimenuborrowed from
he footllool of a throne, and calculated
r or the molt abject state of vaflalage.
Wepafs by nay, we walk over the bo
Jies of millions, facriliced to the pride ol
oyalty—we carelessly crush with our feet
he bones of patriots, and the friends ol
nankind; but, the moment we fee the
alood of a man, who was once a king, oui
? fiions are all inflamed in favour of royal
:y. Is this the land of Liberty ? Is this
he country of freedom? - Is this the
jljce of republicanism ?—ls this the
own of Bolton ?—I« this the United
S ares of America—Rife, ye Ghorts of
WOOSTER,—of WARREN, of
MON 1 GOMERY—of thoufandsof fl
itter patriots,—who have fullsn in dtfen e
of freedom, and corred the feelings of a
legencrate age —Do we attend the thta
ire to enjoy the death of JULIUS CM
SAR ? Hr was a greater and be ;er m.in
than the late king of France. Do we blels
the hand which has plunged a digger in an
indent tyrant, and yet do we weep over
a modern king? —If we do, then it is be
cause we conceive kings, (the reprefenta
rives of antient conquerois,) to be worthy
chandlers.—Do we fee the liberties of
England, in a great meafuie restored ty
bringing one Stuart to the fcaffold, and
by the expttlfion of another, who dies in
poverty and < xile ?—and do we yet pay a
tribute to royalty, by keeping the thirti
eth of Janu ry ar. a lalt,—and do we weep
over fallen deipotifm in a recent inltance i
Even the man, who ordered the thirtieth
of January as a fact, because a royal ty
rant was beheaded on that day, expel'ed
his Heir, and robbed him of his throne,
if it is robbery for one higluv y nftan to
rob ano her of that which lie his taken "
from the people by fbtce.
C \TO.
NEW books.
ROBERT CAMPBELL,
No. bouth Second sueet,
Has r ceiveo bv the Ship George Barclay
A large assortment. of BOOKS,
- Among which arc,
Vjner'a Abridgment ot Law and Equity, 12
vols.
iV. B. Subfcriftiofti are received fo r the above
xvork at 4 Dollars per Volume, 4 Volumes ivi Ibe
received every fix months till the \vork is cotr pitted,
ivh'nh iv ill be in the courje of eighteen months*
Crokc'& Reports, 4 vols.
Lord Raymond's Reports, 3 volsi
Vaitcl's Law of Nations
C m)n's 6 vols
Guthrie* Geography, a new edition in 4 to.
wiu» elegant coku ed maps.
Boyer a i'rench and Di&ionary in 4 &
8 vo.
Home's PLftory of England, 8 vols—Same
oook with Smoilet's coticinaation, 13 vols, ele
gantly gilt.
Mofhrim's Ecclesiastical History,6 vols.
Gibbon's Roman Hiltory 12 v. Is. gilt of
plain
N<cker on Executive Power, 2 vols.
Hiltory ot ancient Europe, 2 vols
Lavater of Phyfiognoray abiidged
Large Family Bible y/i n eiegant cuts.
Chapca« s Chemiltry, 3 voJs
Monro's do. 4 vols.
Umlerwt Oi on Children, 2 vols.
Lid ktori the diKates common in long voya*
ilfs, 2 vols
——— on Fevers,
Metherby's new Medical Dictionary.
CardrLct ( >n the Gouf.
P tt's Chiiurgical VVa: ks, 3 vols.
Nicholfoij's Chemiftr).
Le on B >ta> y.
Wniteon the dileafes of Lyin>-in Women,
fee. &c
R- C. Wii r< ceive by the arrival of the
i It vrileh from D ibiin G it'g •a , a lar,; ad
i.rion to his p efTit extc »i? »>?' merit f books
invngft which will be copies J a.I the new nob'
icatMnsof merit.
A P ril '3* 2aw. t;f.
WATC H E &
ROBERT LESLIE,
LCV.S. ana WnilH ivi.-is.EK, No. i 6**»
Mjik-*t-ore t.
AFTFR return g his si .cere iha . fcs so his
mentis, and th biu io general, lur :he
eat encoaragtm nt ii I,a, ex e,» rn rd lince the
inmencetrimt oi iis buli, ,l"s in ih,. c j ri> takes
s opjor umt\ of itforminf ihem that, in con
quence of r>is intention f f ,nnj to to..Jon in A
il next, he is ft-liing il} it v r\ reuutcd Alices,
is stuck in trade, c, ii ■wg„f I , er> )jr<< . aiuJ
neral jfl" rtment cf enamelled a..d plain
iit ,»i 6 ■ <■:, fa- .10 j. •) i „ e'led.
WARRANTED WATCH'S,
<4oft ol wiiicn ae • 1 ~ mi j , on an j
eweft fafhioi ,— A so a t e highest rt-
I'lhed cut ft eel, and ladies and gei>t)r men's
Watch Chains. Sea's, K , n.n J,, k , rcge
, ter with a few G lu Cnains, Kcjs ana Sials.
Phiiad. Jan. 16, 1793. ef.tf.
I Hare c'aims to about two hundred and
h;t> thoulai; • acres or L/iND i.« . c ttate of
<eijtuckey, in oifterent parts ot that Country^
lome of which 1 know to be ecjual to any ; all
)f 1 3m inclined to oifpole us, either by
rntire sale, or by admitting one, or two part erf,
:o whom the agency on the whole will be com
mitted.
One feurtn of the contrad} will be required in
*iand, either in cash, mercharadife, or luch alfets
;s ma) be converted to adlive ole, the refidoe
may be apportioned in convenient inrtalments.
The pure hafer* to give lecurity, on the land,
jt otherway»,as fuirs them.
Knowing that there is a ppejud : ce zgainft the
irles of hand in thai state, whicn is mote general
han just, lam willing to stipulate in the con
a£l, that a discount, or drduftion, /Kail be
nade, where any land may be loft, by realon of a
Jefedtive title.
Any perf'<n inclining to such a purchase, is re
juefted to write to me by post, in answer t®
vhoQi) more particular information will be given.
HENRY BANKS,
Richmond M h •?. . rr?, w rf #
Harrijburgh Mail Stage.
STAR I S every Wtdnelday from M<. Henry
Epply's in race street, hetvieen third an.l
uurlhUreetf, and arrives at Harrifturgh on the
Saturday morning following—Starts from Mr,
L'tabb's, innkeeper, Harrifburgb, on Monday
ind arrives on Wednesday at Philadelphia.—t-
V. C. The Heading stage starts from Reading,
it John Witman's, innkeeper, on Monday, and
irrives at Philadelphia on Tuesday morning—
Then rtarts from Philadelphia on Friday morn
ng at 4 o'clock, and arrives at Reading on Sa
urday Morning. The gieateft care and attenti
>n Hiail be paid by the publics' humble servant.
WILLIAM COLEMAN.
N. IT. A I'ght stage upon springs, with two
lorfes, or without hoifes, with complete gters,-
mav be had at any moments' warning, for the
accoir.-modat on of ladies and gentlemen, by ap
plying to the above named V* m. Coleman, living
in the borough of Reading.
PRIKTED BY
C H I L D S and SWAINE,
AT THE I k OFT YCE NO. 209, H ICH-STK SIT,'
NEAR Tit TH- ST REST,
PHILADELPHIA*