__ . „ V p i'-/w WfdnEsdays and Saturdays, [Three Dollars per annuv.]
Ry P. FRENF.AU-. (at No. 209, Market Street) Puiujhed WEDUKSDAT
I*4UM3. 7 " Vol.
UEMOCRATIC SOCIETY.
/ST a mteting oj the Democratic Swety of
Perw/ylv.viia, held at the city fFh 'la
del-pbin'for tktjaid city, J''h' J l '- '793*
On motion, 4
Ordereo: That die coranirtee of
correfp >mlence do publ.lh ".•» one or more
nf the public newfpa,>er- of rlns tity. th
principle?. articles and regulation. (greed
upon by t'lis meeting, together with ali t
<,f the names of the OfSc-r* thereof, nn I
the circular letter ordered to be sent ta
the different counties.
Extract from the minute*,
iTJK, Secretary.
Principles. Articles, and ReCtTLA,
tions agreed upon Hy the
of the DEMOCRATIC SOCIETV i>.
Philadelphia May, 30 rh, ' T93-
FTiHE RiOHT! or MA#, the genuine Jib-
A j.-tV, of Society,iyid the legitimate prin
cip'es of ■uoverrfuietit, hive been clearly
Hevelo,)e<f by the fucceflive revolutions ot
America aid France. Taufe events have
-wita'l"is i the veil, which concealed Mi
di'iity and tile happiness of the hum
-race, and have taught Un no loiter
z'-d with adre.i itioiis I'plen lor, oraueu
hv anriqiiat'd ufurpjtian, to erect th * te u
p'e of liberty on the ruins of palace j
a'ld thro tes.
At Mis propitious period, when the ni
ttire of freedom and equality is thu.prac
t: rally "displayed. aid .vhen their vilu'.
(bift under loo.i by thole, who have paid
the price of a. quiring rfi-m) i u iiverfally
acknowledged, tns patriotic m'/id v.ll n.i
inraily be f 'licito.i;, by eve' y proper p. e
«-;iutio.!), to peter, e and perp tu ite the
Melii if.s w itch Providence hath fc.'ftnwed
li'-in out* cou itry : for, in reviewing .he
Jii'Yary of i> mons. we li id occafio.i to la
m:at.' that the vigilance of the Deople has
b» r en tt)B e*% aflflirhed in vie'ery . aa<
th it the nrize, which has been atehieved
6 tiie wifdo n & valour of ole generation
his too often bc-eit left by the ignorant
a id fupinenefs of another.
With a vievr, therefore, to cultivate r
ju't knowledge of ratio lal liberty, to fa
cilitate the eajoyirt-nt and exercise of oui
civil rights, and to tranftait, unimpaired
to poilerity, the g:oriotis inheritance of t
J rti republican government, the Demo
cratic Society of Peniifylvaniais con
jfituted and eltablilhed. Unfettered hy re
iipim' or nationaldiftin&ions. unbiased b}
pVrtv, a id unmoved by ambition, th'S in
i!itu't)on embraces the intercft and incite
the support of every virtlioits citizen
The public good is indeed. its sole object
.md we think that the best means are pur
sued for obtaining it, \i hen we recogn z;
the following, as the fundamental princi
ples of our aiibciatioil.
I. Tk it the people have the inherer.'
r.nri exclufivc right and power of makint
altering forms of government ; ant
that tor regulating and protecting our so
oil interelts, a republican govern
WENT is the mod aatural and beneficia
jbriit, which the wifdoiri of man hasdc
vifed.
11. Tii AT the republican conftitutionsi'
the rviTED States & of the State or
leXNSVLVaNIA, being framed and fclta
bliihed by the people, it is our duty a aooc
<i'Jzens. to support thcin. And in ordei
rffeclu illy to clo so, it is lilcewife the diuj
of every freeman,to regard with attention,
and to tHfcufs without fear, the conduit oj
the public servants, in every departmeni
of government.
ill. That, in considering the admi
jii.Tration of public aff.irs, men au
meafurc?fhould be elli'iiated according ti
their intrinsic merits ; and therefore, re
gardJefs of party spirit or political connec
tion, it is the duty of evtry citizen, bv
making the general welfare the rule of his
conduct, to aid and approve those men and
measures, which have an influence in pro
moting the profperisy ofttie common
wealth.
IV. That in the choice of persons to
fill the offices of government, it is efl' nti
al to the exigence of a free republic, that
every citizen should ast according to hi?
own judgment, and, therefore, any at
tempt to corrupt or dt hide the people in
exercising the right* of Tuff-age. e'tner by
promising tlie favour ot one cand date, or
traducing the of another, is an
offence equally inj'irious to moral rec
titude and civil libe 'ty,
V. That the Peop'.e of Pennjylvania
fern but one indivisible community ,\\ hose
f eUticai rights autl iuiereils, whose iiau-
W E D N E S D A Y, July '7. >793-
onal honor and prnfperi'y must, in degt re
ind duration be forever fame ; and,
therefore, it is the duty of every freeman,
ind lliall be the endeavor of Democra
tic Society to remote the prejudices, to
onciliate th; a(T.?ction», to enlighten t.ie
i! tderftanding, and to promote llie happi
ief< of all our fellow citizens. _
Having united under thefj principles,
vr adopt the following rules and regulati
[>n fir tranfaOing the bulinefs ol the inlti■
tution.
Article I. The Society (hall be eo-ex
tenitve with the itatF, but for t*e conve
niency of the members, there (ball be a fe*
pirate meetitig in the city of Philadelphia
ind O'le in each comity, which (ball chuff
to adopt this constitution. A member ad
mitted in the cify, wln sny comity, fhai.
ofcotirfebe a Bismtie , of the Society <t
large ; and may attend any of the meet
,ii«s where ever held.
ArticKlU. A MEETING of the Society
(hall he» held in the city of Philadelphia, o
tie tint Tliarfday is every month, and i"
he respective counties as often and at fuel
imes as they lhall by their ovvu rule- de
ermine. Biit the prelidenc ofeach refpec
ive meeting the meinbers 01
,nv <peciar*«*ijpF.
Article iff" Tiik f'.ettion o'-.w mem
>er*& officers of the Society ihali be bv oal
l-)t a id by a majority of the votes ot the
me mbers prefr-nt at each refpeciive meet
( it. But no new fflttmber fhalt be voted
'ir at the fame meeti ig wni'-h he is p o
W«j. The nam.so the member- p '<>
loli'Kr any candidates for aditliflion fhnii ft
Itered in a boo.c kept for that purpof
ivrvy member on hi adm'inon fh ill (lib
i'cr be this constitution a d pay the Aim of
l.ilf a dollar to the ircafjtrer lor the uic oi
the Society.
Arttcls IV. The oiucers of thctnr?.-
i is; in ihe City o P iilade'p iia (hallco'dill o
! prefiiznt, two v'cr pttJtdttoU.twl*ct' ta
ri.'l *i'ta}rret -tr r.c <>-yerfO >•*'£
jrittee of five member ;&the meeting, oftht
refpetlive counties thail ci-utle a
and such other officers as they think pro
per. I'tie officers of the meeting held ir.
the city of Philadelphia (ball, be chosen O'
the fir t fliurfday in Januarj i'l
■•ear.
Article V. It (hall be the duty of the
comniittee, to correfponc
with the various.meetir.gs ot the Siuietie>
ind tfnth all other Societies, that mr.v be
elta di'hed on similar principles.in any otliei
tif the United State?,& to lay all cortinur.!-
tatinns which they lliall make and receive,
og( ther with inch otiier bufinefa as they
hail from time to time e'eem proper, be-
r »te the society at a "nesting held within
their refpeciive counties.
Article VI. It lliail be the duty of thr
Vcretaries to keep minutes of the pro
ceedings of the fever a I meetings; and of
lie treafurcr, to receive and account for
ill meines to them refpeQiveiv paid.
(CIRCI 1. AH.)
Fellow Criizr",
VXTF. bare the pleasure to communicate
to voti a copy of the constitution of
' The Democratic Society," in hopes, thai
lfter a candid cenfideration of its princi
ples and objects, you maybe induced tc
jroniote its adoption in the county, oi
,vhi< h yon are an inhabitant.
Every mind capable of reflection, miifl
ierceive. that the present crisis in the po
iticstif nations, is peculiarly interesting tc
America. The Kuropcan confe leracy.
riinfcendeit in power,and unparalleled ir
niqnity , menace, the very cxillence ol
Veedom. Already Its baneful operat or
nay be traced in the tyrannical deftructior
•f the constitution, and the rapacious par
itio 1 of the territory of Poland: ant
hould the glorious etiorts of trance be e
.•entually defeated, we have reaf-»nto pre
ume. that, for the ponfammation of mo
urchical ambition, and the security ol it
■ftablill.ments. this country the only re
ltaining depolitory of liberty, will not lonu
le permitted to enjoy in pi* ce the honor
>f an independent, and the hapi inefs of a
epnbhcan government.
N'oi" are the da gers from af®
e'gn source, the only causes. at this tims
if apprehenfiou and iolicitude. The feed
>f luxury appear to have taken root i:
Hir clom flicfuii; and the jerlotts eye ( '
5 itriotifm already regaids 'he fpivit <
freedom and equality, as eclipsed by the
pride ot wealth, and the arrogarite c
power.
Th.s -enera! view of our fitii"t'on, hn
led to ibv uiituuiiuu o: " Psniovrati'-
Society. 1 ' A constant cirtulation of nfe
ful information. and a liberal communica
tion ot republican fentimeiits, were
:houglit to be the best antidotes to any
political poison, with which the vital prin
ciplesotc .il liberty might attacked :
lor, by such moans, a Iratei rial co ifidence
will be ftablifbed among the citizens;
every fyrr otum of innovation will be (tudi
oufly ma *ed ; and a llaudard will be e
reifed. t<' which, in danger and distress.
the h ientis of liberty may fuccefsfully re
sort.
To obtain these objefH, then, ar.d to
cultivate on all occasions, the love of peace,
order, arid harmony; nnattachmenttothe
couOituti >ns, and a reflect to the laws of
our country, will be the aim of " I'll
Democratic Society." Farty and perfonai
confide rations arc exc uded from a fyflem
of this nature } for, in the language of the
articles under which we are united, men.
tnd measures wilt only be elfimated ac
to their intriniic met its, and theii
influence in promoting the profyetity of
:hc date.
From yon, citizen, we hrtpe to derive
flential aid,.in extending the Society, 'rii
nainraining its gfimtr.e principles. Wi
vcjueff, therefore, an early attention t<
he fitbi"#, and solicit a conftatxt corref
>ontfeni <".
We «e With esteem your
Fellow-Citizens
rliila. 4th July, 1793.
jCcers of the Democratic Society
ti-r the city and liberties ot Philadelphia.
David Rittenhoufe, Prelident.
ssr&El™* p " ii * n "'
James Hhtcbinfon,
Alexander James DaHa. /' Commitref
Michael Letb. 7 of Correl-
Jonathan D. Sergeant, Voondence.
Psti,', Jackson, J
Israel Ifrzel, Trcaftnvr.
•{' o° rt fJ"' £• Secretaries;
P. St. Dnponceau, 3
*'■■ I
The RoyALIST andREPUBLICAN.
Humorous Narrative of a Cattle between
en African Lion and a North-Caroline,
Snapping Turtle.
'From the NORTH C AROt-INA JOTTRNA!./
AFAM'D Hibernian, in this curious age,
Conlin'd the king df bcaifs within i
cage;
fCe-p ; >!? bis majcfly in durance vile—
From place to place he jouriiied many r
mile ;
Travell'd thro' Chow an, Halifax and Na(h,
And pocketed a devilifli deal of cafii ;
Commenc'd a gentleman, and taught tc
play
He grew in grace w.th fortune every day :
As Tuliy eloquent, as Stentor loud.
Thus lie harangu'd the evcr-\conderinj
crottd.
Come gentlemen—behold the fweetef
Creature,
That e'er was rnodell'd by the hands o
natnre.
A fpe&ac!!' to Fcalt a curious eye on—
Come, gentlemen, -Mailt up atidjee the Lion
/II beaits confeCt'd hit tyranny complete.
And, trembling, crouch'd tor mercy at hi
feet:
No animal his peerless power withfl.Ootf,
fie reign'd the monarch of the Lybiai
wood.
Sole fov'resgn of the plain ; no odds be beg
Of any bead that walks nponfoter legs.
All J said k Planter, in our modei ii age
To fee the mightiefl monarch in a cage
Is no new thing! —but, by the immoita
gods,
If you declare this Lion alks no odds,
An animal, I'll bring, shall make him roar
And bathe that visage with his royal gdre
M ake >ou the wager and behold wha
follows ;
Done, fiid the mnjltr. for an hundrei
dollars' 1—
Off went the planter for !.vs beast, so keen
All wond'ring what the devil he conk
mean.
At length he brought—the Lion to op
pose.
What feem'd "A fiddle that had fee t anc
toes." *
A 1 our in tht- l : listed States," b)
me Smyth.—tie thus di/cribes the Tara
pji.: " 1 saw an animal cr.-.wl behind s
oc>, v. hi;.b 1 could compare to notbin;'
but a fiddle with feet to it," —a hook he
\eath. tritium, ai d containing m>t>,i> g tc
■ ■ c,r.if.'t at ion. i-.it a tcg-lijl <f liable
/ - bjtj iIcVU '*
[Total Numb. 179.]
Here, I oaftful wretch, behold this Logger -
At ad,
Who nsver from his adversary fled :
iole monarch of the fwamp—h« fights his
foe
With certain lixill and conquers at - blow*
ihevv him the royal Lion a d you' ice
He'd reverence kings like prince Lgi'.ti c.
Now for the fight the combatants pre
pire—
Now in the cage b.-ho d the advent'rous
pair! —
The scales «f vi&'ry hnngi-"-', in the skies,
Weie then dil.oy; rid hypo tic eyes ;
Wavering, in doubt. Unki owing to fuHidr,
r'or CorvJii.ti's buajt or AfrUlCt pr'ulc.
Wife Tnrttpev. benca.ii hi coat of Trail,
Took in. fee lire, h's he,id and legs and t; il,
o when the wird blows hard, and t un
d, rs roll.
And tempefls shake the world from pole
to pole :
Fhp cautious fai or, fees the Vergi"g vtrp.
Furls up his fail", and drops the yard belcw.
Rides on the billow's top, fiibiinte ai d v..ft;
And scorns, serene the elemental blast.
Advancing firm—the monarch Of the plain.
Laih'd his jong tad ard rear'd his mighty
m in,
Held out his princely at one
thwack)
Fxterrded Tarapen upon his b ck:
But free from pain and w.thvut los- of
gore.
The Cnrolivitm fotr d his lfg« once ti ore.
Laugh'd at the Lic>\. ftri ngth,and mot: 'cl
his frown.
And rose the llron.ei for the knocking
down :
'Twas thus of old—poetic story fliows,
Alci&ti fought, and thus 'A, taus rose.
Hark! from the Ikies a ratrlinrr peal of
thu !
The gods and goddefTca look ddwn w ■ tf»
wonder.
Tis a Bog Turtle with the Lion {hives!
They never f w fin.htii-htins in (heir lives.
Now, let file Ca?>>.'rfrf&i/ f id,
A -'d (hwokthc reverend honors ot his h»-ad.
Whom Jupiter befriends mull then pre
vail,
Jo frnlling Victd y turns the dubious
scale.
Leo. unknowing whom he had to fight,
Stoop'd down his head to take a nearer
fight,—
While Tarapcti, firm, watchful, never
fiar'd,
Directly feiz'd his higlmefs by the beard
That IS so bit the Lion by the jo'u 1.
He could not difeujjage him tor hi: foul.
Clintu'd in the flelh, each tooth with iron
, £r'P
Like Vulcan's pincers, tore the monarch'*
lip :
Close as a lover t» his nilDrefs dear ;
Close as the p llory to a ralcai's ear ;
Uiofo as a miler to a bug of joes.
io close hung Tamper, lo Leo s nose.
Sobn as tile matter saw what carre to
pal's.
Not Sancho griev'd io loudly for his as ;
Not with more furrow did the Trijarx
dames.
Bewail their Hector dead, and Troy iit
flames ;
Nor trembling Frenchmen shew more
and fear.
At the last feat of general Dumoi/rieY.
■U length, to generous pity all incli. VI,
With g-idlike sympathy within his irii d,
I"he great Hibernian e><4 the fray as c. u. J,
In tears exclaiming, O, my beast I yj- a, H
Tlien to tne planter .uru'd —Aliltlcareit
honey,
ilelesfe my Lioti and lectivie your monty !
The fbbtil hero, liking \ ell ;hc truce,
' eceivV his bet and let' tf Lion lurfe :
Then to the mighty conqperer ft d Yes! go
>i j y your freedom In tin vale below ; '
Ne'er may vou « ant a wife in everyplace,
Some black ey'd mnd nyr ph, for ycur
fond en b: ice
O ! may your hed of laurel leaves be made.
And fwt&t magnolia bail Tom Found your
head ;
Amphibious v : Oori I arapen divini t
\ ours be the gl r,y, but the wager nune I
Tor tijt National Gazette.
AS A friend to mankind, I cannot for
*■ b, ar widiing fuccels to th<
cai.Tc in wlnch ihe French,art row t iierc
td; as n lover of my country I dtlire
lief to ! 'i»| r lilt li measures it:„y br
c.:rdii< ive t - the gencr: l welfare ; apt . z
a citizen oi the United Srares, I concrivtj
it to be a.) duty to lMcltignte the Vrjuyj,pies upon which those have acted. into
whose hands power has been intruded, as
veil as to remark on such condufl .as I
may arbitrary, tyrannical, or incon
sistent with those republican principles
which should lorni the basis of our govern
ment, or an usurpation of more power than
they are legally pofTefied of, or have aright
to exercise. The period. I trait is not
t ir distant, w hen we (hall be able with ac
curacy to discriminate between tliofe who
are the real friends and enemies of the na
tion. A spirit of enquiry seems to have
animated our citizens, which cannot fail
of being prodtiftive of the most beneficial
consequences to the community. The
intriguing machinations o einiflaries, and
d?fign:ng plots of interna! enemies, many
p.it io*k and well intentioned writers are
endeavouring to expose, and I hope we
shall soon plainly discover the inimical dif
p ifutons and hostile intentions, now rank
-1".'5 in the of the enemies to fiee
dom. To every one who feel h'mfelf in
terested in thecaufe of his country, it mud
he productive of the greatelt uneaiinefs tr
fee some who have hnz irded their lives,
p.nd facrificed their property 111 the cause
of liberty, ro v become the dtipesofde
iignrog men, and labouring to e-Rablilt
t i if.- > e y doctrines which they former!;
tlifcl >im-*d a- repugnant to reafoii. It i
equally lamentable that certain meafurei
si >uld be pwrfued by our government
\vhi h by many honell citizens are thoushi
to lead to a violation..of filemn treaties,
to infringe the unalienable rights of fiee
men and perhaps ultimately to involve in
i 1 a war, unjust as to its inducement, and
tin natural as to itsohjeft.
The Prelident's late proclamation ha'
been thec,bjeft of much anitoadverlion, and
censure from fnmr quarters. Nt to bring
into queflion the policy or legality of the
n J i,(ure. the ambiguity of its language ha'
ie'i a flu iibliil* block with many. If a
ft.'irt compliance wth treaties was intend
ed, nothing would have been easier than tc
liave ad »;.ted I'uchexp 'fffi as v ould have
fui-fid every mind, and not milled the
judgments of-fuch* weak individuals a
now f ipp.ife that those co nparts whicl
formerly ui.ted France and America, nc
longer ex ft The want of expl inatior
on this fnhjeCt has induced many to put v
conftrurtio mpon the proclamation, whol
ly irreconcil.'able with the well kuowe
chnr.irter of him who iflned it.
The iraprifonment of two Americans
w'lo generously abandoned their rountrj
to combat the enemies of I berty under the
tri "co'oured flag of France, ii an instance
o r outrage, which I hope, will forevet
remain unparalleled in the annal of free
dom. The right of emigration is one ol
the nioft invaluable which a freeman car
enjov. It is not delivered up into t.'if
J"ia-ds of the com nunity .it is one which
so far from infringed, should be
pr-tccted by ttje government. The verj
jdea of detenr 0:1 when no criminality de
m'nds a furrendor to j aAice, is totally in
conp3tib]e with the name of liberty
When therefore citizen' Singleterry am
Henfirld chose to abandon fieir native
country, and engage in the contest on tilt
p'irtof France, on board of a veTTel be
longing to the Fren h, commanded by a
Frenchman, and acting Under a Trend:
co.mmifliai), was not the fetal re <f theii
p.-rfoi an art of tyran ly, an cver-llretch
oTpower, as unwarranted by the principle:
of liberty, the rights of freemen, and the
laws of nation.", as it was cont ary to a
solemn treaty, and difjj■ aceful to a free
pe iple !
Tie detention the prizes belonging tc
the Fre.nih republic, has received to > inucl
difcufliOn in the public papers, to admit ol
a ly inima'dverfiohs, upon thepreflnt occa
lioii. A myleriou s dakieT, an affuminc
conduct, intrigue and chicane have market
in indelible characters the v. hole o' the
proceedings relative to that affair, as wel
as the intended ftappage- of the Lrttle De
mocrat. The principles upon which the
prizes were held in cultod , and the calling
out the nvlitia for that piirpofe, were my-
Iteries known only within the veil of the
cabinet. Far be it from me to inlininte
that every official act of the preii-ien!
fliould be communicatee! to the public im-
Hi-diately upon its execution j but in ar
affor of furh magnitude as the one under
co ifiderution. on which the opin.o is o'~t'ie
citizens are so mil h divided, which mi)
poflioly plu ige the cdunti y into a war, in
■which the milit • v force was brought for
ward to take polfedi iii of F. ench property,
the citizens ihould certainly have been
made acquainted with the principles thai
led to a pnrfu tnce of such a measure
Wnen public for.e w-is necefl'aiy to be
called out, was it confident with the cha-
of freemen to fight when they knew
not for what they were .contending. Yet
thit> would hue been the cafe bad the
F ench artempted to ref-iie their property
from the captors, whilil inverted by the
Philadelphia militia.
Arbitrary measures, intriguing conduct,
and dark policy are totally ihconfident with
the generous Sentiment? and oudrfiembling
manners thut should eharatte ze a repub
lic It is time to enquire into the origin of
those abuses, and when found, infiaatly to
a|)My a remedy, or the rui l of the United
States is inevitable. Since the re-eftiblilh-
Biea; of psac?, our country has Blade jra-
pid rfrides to wards aristocracy. It is high
time to arred her prcgrefs, left a: a Future
period it may be impoflible to (top her ca
reer, without another effufion of blood.
Wherever may be its source, we are cer
tain of its pernicious confluences. It
has already induced us to bear with tame
j'Ulillanimity the inftiks and injuries of
ihat tyrannical power which we formerly
elided, from r. hence it has been conjee
rtired that too many among us llill leai
and honour their ancient master. It is ap
prehended too by many that the measure;
which have been pursued In conformity tc
i his principle may probably plunge us into a
war on the fide of defpotilm ; but notwith
landing every step which may be taken tc
prevent their designs. numbers are dil
ready to recognize the plighted faitli o
freemen, with the fame energy that mark
ed their opposition to Tyrannical llfn'rpati
on. 'I' re are thoufandiof honed citi
zens in the Union, who are ready to ac
complUh their part in the fulfillment o
treaties defence of the canfe of tini
verfal freedom ; and (liould their natio
ultimately (hew itfelf determined to pur
sue a conduil inimical to the rights of man
they are ready to adopt the maxim of th<
immortal Franklin—where Liberty it theri
is my country. ALCANOK.
Philad. July 15th.
For the National Gazette.
QCCt RRENCES sometimes very trifling
in their nature have a tendency tc
(hew, in a very striking and -expreflive
manner, the opinion-! of mankind.
Haying been one of the crou d of pefta
tors who attended Mr.Ricketts's perform
ance on Saturday, I could not but observe
« hat mud have been obvious to all, tha:
when " The man of the people" was toad
ed in the presence of the perlon to w hotn it
was intended to apply, those warm emoti
ons were not excited in the breads of the
many citizens who were present, that the
fame circumflancc would have producec
fotne time ago.
But a few years part, involuntary shouts,
and appl itife would havefiucecd
rd the mention of this toast, as natural!}
as an effect docs its cause; hut on thisoc
calion the vain and unfiiccefsful attempt!
of a few to raise ?n huzza, only served t
indicate more clearly the change that ha:
taken place in the sentiments of the peo
ple, with refpefl to the whom tliej
have placed at the head of their govern
ment.
The enlightened and republican citizens
of America will not continue their eulo
gies longer than tiifey are merited : The)
willrot faraur any. one with the. title <1
the man of the people (lh« mod Uonourablt
and gloriuus one ever annexed to the name
of Walhington) who attempts to impjjfe
the impoffibte talk upon freemen, of obfer
ling a conduit equally "impartial, and
friendly" towards the daring enemies ol
liberty, and her si mefl friend-
While their gratitude fpr his eminent
fsrvices in their late caufe,\ eils the fiiialler
faults of his administration, they will rot
continue infenlible to flagrant violations of
their rights : They will withdraw their
edeem and confidence from aMy one of
their public servants, whose efforts are ex
rrted tj flrengthcn collaterally the arm o<
le(j>otifin,by vveakeiii'ig that of liberty; the
l ya! a.hlrefles that were received are only
ind caiive of the sentiments of a lew inte
relied individualsthe grt?at mass of the
3t ople are the enemies of slavery, end its'
ibettors, and however they may with to
Jreferve the blefii;igs of peace, will never
ieign the nod of approbation to a procla
mation, a ftridt and implicit observance of
which, might eventually prodrate the glo
rious tree of liberty which they formerly
nourished with aportiou of the fame Wood
:!iat continues to animate them Mav out
ongedeemed Walhington fpeedi y ihfin
:angle himfelf from thecoiinfels of tliearif
:ocratic friends who surround him, be
:om. 1 the active friend of our gencroti
jlhe", and command the univerjalregard
>fhis coiiturymen.
PHILOGENET.
July 15th 1793.
For the National Gazette.
pVERY on? rem'mbers the celebrated
Balloon for which the late Mr. Dick
er set a subscription on foot in New V ork,
in January 1-89. The subscription was
lill.-d by the July following, and the day fixed
fir the afcentof theadventurou aeronaut.
It is almost needless to brinj, into view the
fate of that immense unwieldy smoke-bag.
1c was attempted to be filled by meafts of
fire being set to several lubftances spread
under it, ftich as damp draw, chopped
v. 001, &C.&C. but through some miftua
nagement, or the inadequacy of the mean ,
it was never completely indited Jn tin
midst of the exertions of those* in the Jeer el
the balloon (whieh was made of raven'
duck) took fire, and it was with some diffi
culty the aeronaut tfcjtped from the con
ftagration with the loss of his whlfliers.
a (kin conliderably scorched by the blaze,
and the pu: firing curses, menaces, and ex
ecrations of one or two thotifand fubferi-
Icrs,—A few days before Mr, Decker'
in. ended ascent; the following addrefi was
lent to him, which you will pieafe to
prefetve ia your National Gazette.
" To Mr. Dr.CJCF.R.
Ot k vi:it to America is pleasing to
every one, and to none more than mvfelf.
1 have read with much pleasure, mixed
with altonifhment, many publications of
the surprizing and fuccefsful vo'yagc-s that
have been made into the upper regions ;
and as the clay isfaft appro idling, on u hie;.
Von mean r.o aflonifh the inhabitants of thi>
Itibliuiary world -itli your bold flight,l am
half tempted to request a palTage in the
grand balloon you are now preparing for
the enter,ainment of tiie citizens of New
*?rk. There is bjit one preliminary I
' 1 t() adjusted with you previous tc
departure, and that being agreed to, the
pillage money (ball be paid down.—Sir,
■«- are informed, that the upper regions
belong solely to a great p.ince, even the
; nnce of the Tower of the Air, who ha.-
tiillfway and absolute authority over the
v atmosphere of this globe, therefore,
notu ithftanding he has kindly permitted
vers! balloon men hitherto to proceed on
uninterrupted, and without a legal pas
e>. octired from himfelt or some of his agent
ere below, ;t may not always be the cale.
.i(l that fiion Id he happen to be a little out
•■f humour on the day of your ascension,
& on your mounting some miles high, (ltould
chance to meet you, full butt, and demand
(l fee your puss, blef. me what mull be the
atal consequence, fliotild it not be in your
power to produce one ? Alas! 1 fear no
thing less than the entire annihilation of
Mr. Decker, balloon and aM, in an instant!
i oil to know, Sir, the whole artil
er\ of t.ie f. y is abfoUltely at the command
of this prince, and a single tremendous
• Imnder bolt would fee fnificient to do
}om btilinefs cffeftfially ; therefore prav
ake my advice, and arm your balloon
° IIC ' franklin's fpecific con
ncting-rods : we are convinced of the
' '"cr.cypf them, and theperfeft fecnrity of
ii,barking with yon when thus protected ;
hen will Mr. Decker and I. if permitted,
triumphantly (oar aloft, and dare to look
lis god/hip full in the face, undaunted
at his grim fuily phiz and terrific appear
ince, and exnltingly proceed on in fjiire of
'II his feeble etfoi t? to prevent lis, and take
picturesque view i fall this little globe and
the wonders above !
AN ORATION,
Delivered at the request of the Ciceronian
Society by their l>i efident, on the Anni
verf.iry of American Independence.
Gentlemen,
'"pHE impifilion which you have made
upon my mind, by appointing trie to
this place, tan never be removed. Called
upon so unexpectedly to (peak amor? .fl
you in commemoration of an event which
the whole world has witnclled with thf
plaudits of rapture, without having that
affillance of time and leifme afforded ms
which the importance of the ftrijeft de
mands, my situation cannot but appear ex
tremely awkward indeed. The vail theme
which requires the energy of pathos itfelf
o do it j'iftice, mud 'tisevident, dwindle
even b low itsown greatness, v. rt
tempted by Hmon whom you have thoiicht
proper to impose the duty.
The 4fn o* July, i 776, is a riemorable
sra—big in itfelf as iU'efpefls the prefen;
age, and of the gre ate ft moment as it re
gard- polterity. The annals of every Ra
tio 'i are consulted in vain to fx attention
(lpon one f» replete with striking instance
of hardy figeneC., magnanimity, and glo
riuiis enterprise. None living at the pre
feiu day are ignorant of the illustrious iafh
which have tendefl to immortalise the
names of thufe heroes who were actors in
the great scene of the revolution. None
withhold the tribute of gratitude and ap
plause, at this day, for the grand achieve
ments of the late American warriors.—
And who, in turning over the records of
tim-, pauses not to contemplate rile majes
ty of that ..nguft synod which spoke Ame
rica free and independent > W ho reads the
hiltoric p?.ge& becomes no' fafcinated by
rhe astonishing fefforts ot calm deliberation
in the cabinet, and warm intrepidity in the
fia-cl ; of an infant republic 'railing her
fe.f to the rank of a nation, from the (la
villi ignominy offoreign.dependence? Who
bears not in mind the memory of "tllefe
brave patriots, toU'hcm only the bed c;
honour afforded art asylum from the hor
rors^of-the bloody conflict? B-lit it is net
lor me, my friends, to awaken you to an
acquaintance with the men and measures
<if 17-6, nor to dwell on scenes so recent
which have been fa of ten painted to you,
view, and which c'n never be forgotten".
Fhe b'aft of gratitude has already fprc:
rheir exploits round the u.nverfc ; 1
trump or fame is still distended in th. ;
praise, ifltiingfounds which (hall he h,.M'
by temoteft >"flerity. We may, 'tis true
and we oughtto teftify our gratitude so.
the zeal 01 our countrymen who bled 1:1
ofifti'ig the efforts of their domineer!
eiiem es, butthe attempt were vain, toadd
a Itiftre totheir praise Indeed, whyfhould
e call back with ofteivtatious etilogies
he departed spirits of those lieroes who
save feaied our happiness with their all.
iVora the eljfuim oi g.ory wiiicli euvirotio
then), to vitnefs our mortality ? No. re
happy honored shades, we wifli not to dis
turb your tranquility by the fbuuts of en
tltufiafm, but will not lorget the services
you have done your country. In our pride
we will not make gorgeous facrifice to
your memory ; but we will watch round:
yonl' graves and pour over your facrerl
tombs, t.ie foft effufion of gratitude mm
"tir hearts. The humble shrubbery abort
■ heir heads, shall be dewed with the tears
<>f sympathy. The odorous myrtle fltnll
(lied its fragrance to the breeze. The lau
rel.and the cvpref*. shall interweave their
foliage,and wreath a garland lor your Jail
ing monument- -
But are we, it is afued, precluded from
acting a>art in the political drama ?—la
there nothing left lor us to do ?—We
know very well, that tbe> patriots of the
Iwte war struggled againlt the ifurpation of
tyranny and oppression, thtir exertians
were ci ovvned with success, the glorious
privileges of freedom and national happi
iiefs became their own. Bfeffings so great
onghtiitJt to perish with the pofleficrs.—
Tile youth of this day, whom the w ant of
igedt barred from uniting in the confl ft,
receive!) at their hands that im gift
«hicb An.ericans acquired by their blo< d.
Our children have a right to t xpect a tranf
iiiilfion of thisblefli.ig to them, pure and
' iviulate as we re.eived t. And hence it
is our indifbert' ble ciity to exert every ef
fort agair.ft all those who would wrelt the
legacy from its.
My friends, it is on this account wc
(liou.d pause whenever an important politi
cal qiiellion is agitated ; we ihould ask
ourit'lves if v. ehavebeen faithful to the
trull reposed in us; we should make a
ftricl(crutmy. ami on every occasion regu
late our conduct bythe ti.ierr ng guidance
of republican plainness. \\ e (houid bear in
mind that before the happy ;ra of the
American revolution, the urm.verfary of
w inch we rtionld delight in commemorat
ing, that juvenile associations like our own
were altogether unheal d of, that we are
indebted to that event for the legality of
our proceedings, and that only by ? mutual
emulation in adhering to the principles!
which gai-e rife to the eflyvlifument of li
berty and equality, can the catife of our
fathers be fnpported. For though the Uni
ted States are now free from the fetters
of tyrannical ufurpatir.n. and thoup.fi the
flame qf freedom has began to fl.ine beyonct
the Atlantic, yet as the great principle is
l «it univerfdlly adopted there is danger to
be apprehended from a fluggifli confidence
■if our fecunty. The Sre which has pur
ged th s land from corruption,& which is
kindled in the bosom ot France, may be
erctinguifhed. And it' this should ever be
effeoe<i, as it is to be feared it v ill if fuel
be not cottflantly added to tjie blntr, the
defpotifin o! f urope \\ ii! rage with great
er fury than before, the various impurities
of, tyranny ~,vill aga<n dc iiie our foil, anil
the cause of freedom w ill receive a .fatal
wound.
(Remainder in our next.)
[From the Fayertcville Gazette. J
OUR neutrality prefVnf war is
serving the Britilh court more efncaciouOv,
than any one power France has to contend
with. From the number of Btitifh
witli their fnperior force in the Wcit In
dies, she tvllj receive provisions in an a
tUl d lit manner, equal toiler wants, with
the advantage of capturing on the coalls of
the United f>tatei, the fiipplie- which
France may procure. Her opening at this
time one or two of her islands, to enable
her to defyroy our allies, is a l'refli inftilt to
American undcribnding; we know that
without these States ller iuands. -much less
her fleets and her armies, <-otold not be
fcbfiMed.
ft is said by the friend' of Britain, we
have no right to intermeddle., anil it is cer
tain that republics move with caution.—
if flvuiKl.be com. Hied to f'ibmit to
her enemies, would rhe i(lands in -the W eft
Indies conquered by Bi itain. be returned
her? The in'fe is, Great Britain aims at
an universal monopoly of trade and com
i-.iercc ; and these State:, would fee their
tolly, when, perhaps it would be too iate.
For the fake of maKvflg, perhaps, two
or three millions, of do.', lacs, by this neutra
i ty, \Ve are.'to facr.lice our allies, who ad
vanced us nea.rly twenty miiiicn-, and
came with forty thotifand ir.cn to our aid ;
for this _ our national charafler is to
be biafttd foragesto "tome 1
That France has a right to eftabiilh
whatever form of government is (nitable
to her happiness. every rational bei:;g mult
allow. Tnat the despots oi Europe fliould
interfere to prevent this right, is an abun
dant evidence that ihe French are ailing
for the general wollare of thetrjelves and
che human race.
The many maflacres, murders and lamp
hangings, wbi h micilte. ial writers dwell
on with pleafnre, by reasonable men
! u tifl be laid on those who united and set in
i ferment this great nation; and our won
der at these accounts mnft eenle, when we
confuler the dreadful provocations and in
fnlts'offered to the moll refined, polite and
liberal tninded.nation in Europe;
There are foine hereditar - flroke; of
charatter by wiiich a famvh may be ast?er:n}' diftthjTfiiked, as by the blacked j
features of cue unman face. That Charlet
lit. of England, and JL-puis XVX. 01
trance lived and died hypocrites/is notilif
puted : Both were amenable to their sub
jects, whole urtferi tlierr tyranny
were tremeadou. In tiigljnd we lie
tin; Uritiih court armed witn the molt del"
poric antnonty—the kingdom
of-lreiand, winch co itaiu-j upwards ot four
millions of iduabiunts, plundered and abu,
fed i tilts unhappy kingdom :s doomed to
the heavielt curse a tyrant can inH>£t. Un
happy 1 rilhinen ! who lavUh their blood
aiid treasure for despots, are to be difariß
ect. St. Patrick never denounced so l'evere
an anathema against the 3s George
lIId. hasagaimt your feelings, your kjvai
ry and honor ! Can you live under this
reproach—l'he United Stares are open to
receive you,niil<*f> prevented by the wood
ken'tvalis of your opprelfors ; whole joy at
the recent treufon of the French" uenera.
Pu'nourier, appeared more contem, tible,
than when they bought Benedict A noM.
The despots of the earth being endowed
■with the bafelt of palTions, leave no method
untried to acconipliih the oeftructio.i of
tlie huui.xH race. We truit that the firm
:iefs and wifdam of the National All'emb y
will J>e equal to that of the A merican
Councils when Ariiold fold liimfelf—th_
fruits of whole t.eai'on was much more
prejudicial to tneir enemies than thcin
felves."
, i
PHILADELPIII A.
Wednesday, Ju'y 17-
Oil the 4th of Jul) instant was la : d the
r orn^r .fto.ie of the Grand H >tei, t» bL
b ult bylottery in the Federal City. M re
than 1500 people were present. Ttio root
of this building is to extend i?o feet and
the ?fl>mbly room will be 40 by to set.
The v. hoie will form the molt nuguihcent
building in America.
Intelligence from E'Jrppe Hnce otlr last
rmoants to little new,and molt of that lit
' cis conveyed through suspicious chan
nels. —A'cording to these, however, the
Spaniards (April 1 3) were preparing to in
vade France with an nrrny of 70.000 a'len.
The French army on the Moselle. con
fiftin" of.lo,ooomen,bad recodified Harn
liohrg si"i Deux Ponrs.—The position of
the French army on the Rhine, was strong
nnd advantageous ; the garrison at Mentz
was clol'ely ftlrronnded, snd pirched by
famine ; the French frequently Tallied out,
ar.d were fucc<?fjJ«ll lt> defu wyhij ths*n ■-
my.—r'en. Pampierreis said to be read,
prohably of sickness—and. according, to the
Bruflels Gazette; general Cultine had been
made prU'oner, with a part of the troops
under bis con»mand. —The French at Dun
kirk were preparing to attack Oft :ul :
other account' fay that Dunkirk « as to be
soon inverted by the allies by sea and land.
The lafl Er.glifh papers are from Liverpool
toM'ay23d. they mention the defeat oj
the Britilh guards on the Bth of May, but
omit mentioning the place where it hap
pened. There >s a remarkable chalm in the
chain:of intelligence between the 7th and
23d of May.
Pipers from Knoxville (territory south
of the Ohio) abound with accounts of In
dan depredations, thefts, and murders.
Matters are now come to finjli a crisis ill
those, and some other frontier parts, that
the planters are under a neceflity of keep
ing centinels oti!;whilft others are at work
in the fields. It is a late practice of the
1 ndians whenever they fall in with a drove
of jiogs, to kill and scalp them ; either as
an intimation to the inhabitants that they
;ire to expect the fame treatment, or rc
keep their hands in, in the practice ot tha:
ancient, tho 1 not very liberal art.
A Britillj (hip from Newfoundland for
Hew-York, is captured by the frigate Am
feufcade, and sent into Me.v-York ; a:; al
so a brijj, belonging to Jamaica, t<i
the Republican (privateer.)
The lliip Friendlhip, belonging to Phila
delphia, was taken'the 20th of M 0:1
her return from France, by an Engl '■
privateer lliip called the Alexander, anc!
fen: to Jamaica. The. pretence was, ha
ving French property on board.
Subfcriptionsare opened in the respec
tive wards of this city, for relief of the dif
irolfed citizei'3 from Cape Francois. Ad
miral Sercey, commanding the from
Cnpe Francois, is arrived in this citv from
more. Governor Galbaud is under
. on board one of the ships of wai
fff the fleet.
Two Dutih fiiips bsve been brought in
to the Chefapeak, prizes to a French 18
gun sloop of war.
said to he nrnkin? bv
Gov. Simcoe, in Canada, for building new
so' ts oil the other fide of the river, and
eppofite to those they now hold in the ter
ritory of t ie United States.
Gen. Rochambeau has entirely defeated
the aristocratic planter, in Martini, o ; kil
led many, and too'c many mo-e prisoners.
He had informed Admiral Gardner, that
the moment aßritifh fildier landed on the
island, he would immediately put the pri
|bners and Ist lodf? the negroes
o:i the invader;. The consequence is fait 1
to be, that tile admiral has returned to St.
Kitts.—Other accounts fay, that the Eng
iifh, in attempting to fubdhe the ffland,
were repulsed with the loss of 500 men.
Extract of a letter fromCharlefton, July 7.
41 The wind has blown fleadily at S. W
here since the latter end of Mijy- It i
faid that a current run. to the north eait
ward on the coast, v ith a rapidity equal tc
the Gtllph stream. Neither captains Skel
yor Burrows have yet arrived from Phi
.adelpbia, who mult have been out at leal;
i month.—We have had our tears here
for the French cause, and many ot out
weak-nerved gentry"began to despair ol
ts fuecefs. The cafe however is now al
ereci—'.vo are they will do very
•veil.—Nil eii ■dsj'.tranduin cts republica.'
On Monday lull the officers of the fe
:»nd regiment of the Philadelphia militia.
ifxtnbieJ at Weed's Ferry, to commemo
rate the overthrow of the BASTILE, on
he r4th of July. she Governor and Ci
izert Gf.net were invited to the enter
ainment ; the former attended, bus the
atter. having previotifly enpaged a p *»tj
>f his countrymen at his house, could only
:av the company a short vilit. During hi:
lay, hpwever, some of the following toafh
ver« drank, aKiidll the firing of cannon,
uiiich jihrharged 85 rounds in honorgf
:he 85 departments of France) and rhe ac-
Um itionsof the company, who felt all
he enthtiliafm with which an event to gjo
:nu> in the annals of the world, mull for
:ver inspire the breslis -»f patriotic free
pen.
1. The FOURTEENTH day of July :
'day it be a Sabbath in the calender «'
reedom, a id a Jubilee to the European
world. £ The 1 ENTH of August ; may
:iie t'reewep who offered up their lives on
:lie alt rofLihtrty, be ever remembered
it martyrs, and canonized as faints. 3.
May the Ka'.iile of despotism. throughout
[he earth, he crumbled into dust, and the
Phae ix 0:' Freedom grow otit of Ihealhes.
} Nerve to the arm, fortitude to the
heart, a id triumph to the foul, struggling
forthe rights ot in 1 ! 5 May 110 blind at
tachment to men lead France to the preci
pice ot that tvraiiny, fpom whith they
have efraped- 6. May the lifter republic:
)f Frame and America be as incorporate
•s- light and heat; and the man who en
;ieavours to disunite them, be viewed a
:heArnold of his country. 7. May honour
mid probity be the principles by which the
zonnex ions of free nations shall be deter
mined ; aui no Machiavelan comm/nta
-"i trpiain rhe t e-ciT6 c . reaties. 8." TH't
I'reaty of at imce -with France : May thofc
who attempt to evade or violate the poli
tical obligations ami faith of our country
be considered a' trr tors& co ifigned to in
fainy. 9. The citizen Joldierr. before the}
ast may they know and approve the cause.
and may remorlV attond the man thai
would think of oppofmg the French whilfl
diey war for the rights of man. 10. The
V out it ef the PArus Legion : may the
■ifing generation of Americaimitate theit
leroifm and love of country. 11. The
Republics of .France and America : ma)
he cause of liberty ever be a bonil of unioj
ietweeri the two nations. 12. A daggei
•n the bofoili of that man who makes pa
riotifm a cover to his ambition, & feels hi:
-.ountry's happiness ahlorbedin his own. 1 3
May French, superior to Roman or Greciat
Virtue, be the elestric fluid of Freedom.
:hat (hail animate and quicken the earth.
r4- Union and mutual confidence to the
patriots of France ; "confulion and diflrefi
:o the coifflfrls of their enemies. Ij. Maj
he succeeding generation Wonder that
"uch beings as KINGS were ever permittee
:o exill.—Volunteer fron the Chair—Tin
-ule of proportion : as France afied wits
*efpe£t to Americ a, so may America afi
ivith refpeft to France 1
Volunteer from Governor MIFFI.IN,
Peace t* France, and perpetuity to fie!
Republican Syfiem !
The entertainment terminated at ar
:arly 1.0-ur, and several of the officers, in
: ) lie} 1 ' ice of a general ihvitation from
:he Miuifier ot France, joined the compa
ny at'his honfe, where the day was clofecl
,vith that convivial and ■ raterqal harmony,
which it is to be hopeef will forever cha
- 'iterite theinterc'ourfe between the ti
izens of the filler Republics.
Princeton, July j. 1793.
Yesterday morning, the lig it infantry
company at Princeton, coin nai led bv
Uapt. Stephen Morford. paraded at the
ign of the Ltbertv Tree, and afte.
v Ollls throgh a variety of manoeuvre:
till about lu' Ipck. Fifteen vollie were
Liien fiied in honour of the new confedera
lion of til.-United States. Tile company
then retired, and far down to an elesran
dinner, when the following toasts wen
drank. 1. The U ircd Slates of America,
2 Tiie Republic ot France : may si e tii
umph over all the despots leagued againl
her. 3. The light infantry ot Princeton.
4. The fta'e of Nevr-Jerfey. 5. Tile
friends of liberty throughout the globe. 6
\ speedy downfall to all tyrants. 7. May
ve never forget the days, nor lose the fpi
ritof'l776. 8. The memory ot all these
men who nave ,alien in defence of liberty
j. we live to fes the d.iy when iiU
weapons of war maybe laid aside, and uni
versal peace prevail throughout the globe.
10. The nary of France : May they liuri
the thunder bolts of veiigeunce on all tin
despotic vessels they meet on the oceiyi
11. The citizen soldiers of the state of
New-Jersey. 12. The weflern army :
may they have a fuccefsful campaign, 13.
May fuceefs crown all republican armies.
14. May ill lories have a perpetual itching,
and never the gratification of fcratch
mg. 15. The republican ladies all ever
the worV. : may they be blessed with good
husbands, and crowned with content.
The-anniverfary of independence has
been more extensively celebrated this year
than tifual. It affords pleasing refteftions
to the patriotic mind to obserVe fucli a spi
rit of union anil fraternal affection amos.
the citizens of the United States. The ac
knowledgment of the blessings of independ
ence, as fecurcd by a jitft and energetic go
vernment, ;ire among the most striking
feiitiments ejipreflld on this occasion ;
while a generous wiih for the freedom and
happinels of the whole society of man, ap
pears to have glowed in the bosom of-eve
ry afiemblajje of citizens thro' the union.
The Santee Canal Company of South-
Caiolifla have now in employ 195 laborers,
brfitfi'.s trades nen. Upwards ot 400 yards
if the Cv'nal are completed. They have in
riank -I.<Xp doilars_, and the tool-, and up
wards ot 7,Q00 bushels of corn have been
pur-chafed aiili paid for ; and the flock
holders are only !i> be called on for twenty
inilling-, a-(liare, at ."he next day of pay
inent. The/e is every nrofpeft of the ca
naj being speedily compiled.
PropoliU ajre ilTueii in New Haven, for
printing Hy subs ription, a Kiftory of the
three judges of king Charles I. Lieutenant
Cfii. v\'n illey,'Majtw Gen. Goff, and Col.
Dixwell ; who, at the reftoYatio 1 )) itfo.
(led to America ; and were secreted ifi
M ifacluiiett-: and Oonnefticut, for near
jo years. With .an accoiint of Mr. Thir
nphilus Whale, of Narraganfett, supposed
to be one of the judges by Prelident
stiles.
Ev letter's this day from New-York, we
earn, that the Ambuscade frigate has arri
ved at that port ; and the ship Wafhing
lon'haj arrived at Wilmington, Delaware,
from Ireland* with about 300 paflengeis.
The following is the amount of lord
Hood's fleet delfined to ast in the Mediter
anean the present fuminer. Nineteen,
from 100 gm > down to -4 —three of 64 —
iftgrn fcj&B'", firefljlps, &.C.. In all 6c
pendants, to be.j lined by 35 Spanish (liips
r>f different rate*. It is fu'pefted the de
ign of this grand armament, was to attack
Wirfeillas and Toulon, probably at tie
'ame time.
[From the Rickmc.nd Chronicle
" IMPRESSED with the lingnlarity of
i dream I had lali<(iight. I am induced to
ommunicate the public.
I dreamed"l was in th? Federal City in
:he year 1820, and saw at the entrance a large
and magnificent house, the (lately, and loft)
pillars whereof drew my attention so much
that I was filled with amazement, and fee
ing at the door a mail superbly drefTed, 1
concluded that he Has nothing less thar
the President of the United States, whicli
tilled me with awe and refpeft j the mar
ohferving my fittiation, bid me take com
rage and come forward and ask him anj
queflions, as he stOod tliere for no othei
pnrpofe ihan to gratify the enriofity of al
Itrangers that came to visit the city.—En
cotlraged by his looks and kind expreffioits,
I allied him whose superb hotife it was : —
he told me it b< longed to the old ch:el
cook to the Vice-President who by artful
ly persuading his mafler to live a kingly life
had amassed a large fortune, at:d was now
fwpervifor of the city, with all the pom
polity of a lord mayor—Oh ! fays I, it is a
pity that ill this free and equal government
where it has been ulight us to despise kiag:
with all their pageantry,that our chief ma
gistrate should imitate them. Fie replied thai
it was not his fault so much as our forefa
thers, who allowed fuel] large salaries anc
erected i'uch magnificent buildings as thoft
are, pointing to three that I had liot ob
served before, which appeared to be equal
to ,my pa aces in Europe, the very fight ol
which filled me with, horror, and catiied
me to ejaculate in the following manner.
—O America ! this great and populous
city which thou prdeft thyfelf on, will
cause thy ruin—the very figi t of these
magnificent buildings carries with every
republican the idea of subordination—that
liberty and equality which our forefather;
ardently ffrusgled far, is entirely prepon
derated by ostentation, influence.and i.or
ruption—lliou art fti'.ed wife among the
nations, and thy manners are jpandid nd
[jlain amor.g the bulk of thy people- W'iy
then wilt thou let a few defigniftg and ..«i
bilious men deprive y 11 of that ineftima
ble jewel that h,«s cult your country oceans
of blood—Learn, Aneiica, before it is too
lite thy interell—h ndtr the yoke from
being piactd on thy ch Idreu ' necks, foi
power is much easier afi'umed than cur
tailed.—'The man heard me with a deep
i'ljh, and disappeared with this answer
bivw ilie trumpet, found the aiar»i } fcr
without great exertions her fall is near —
I was To much affected with what he said,
that I -awoke."
*»* The Editor of the National Gazette
is authorized to inform the writer of l'an
lus, in our ljft, that Mr. Brow nis not the
writer or author of the peice (igned X. Y.
in his paper( the Federal Gazette)of Wed
nesday, the 10th. inft. as infmuated by
Paulns in the National Gazette of lalt
Saturday.
-»**. A True American, and Paulus, in
our next.
[from a cnrrefpowiei t.~\
Verfeson the Singing of Mrs. PowNAl.
JF poignant pain aflail the heart.
* Or robs it of its common reft ;
If cruel love subdues your art,
Tis flie can renovate your bi eall.
If dark distress o'erclouds our views,
Dr sudden loss disturbs the mind ;
'Tis Ihe the fadden'd heart bedews,
4nd proves that Fortune is too kind.
Each harden'd heart forfakesits fteelj
To fympath fe for others' pains :
And ail ■ >nr paffioiu male a kin el,
While flirning to her 'Having drains.
" O blest captivity'" cf mine !
f thus the foft' sing Captor fwavs.
And always with such graces lliine,
I'd be a Clave thro' all my days.
S. R.
July Ijth 1793.
PATRIOTIC STANZAS
3n the Ann'v'erlary of the Storming of the
Bastille, at Paris, July 14th, 1789.
-pHE chiefs that bow to Capet's reign.
In mourning qow their weeds display;
But we, that f'corn a monarch's chain,
Combine to celebrate the day
To Freedom's birth tjlat put the seal,
And laid in dust the proud Baltille.
To Gallia's rich and splendid crown,
This mightv day gave such a blow,
As Time s recording hand (hall own,
former age had power to do :
No single gem some BrutU'- stole,
But inllant ruin feiz'd the whale.
Now tyrants rife, once more to bind
In royal chains, a nation freed —
Vain hope ! for they, to <le ith confign'd,
Jhali foou, like perjurM Louis, bleed'-.
O'er ""very king, o'er every queen
Fate hangs the sword, and guillotine.
" Plung'd in a gulf of deep distress,
France turns her back—r(fo traitors fay)
Kings,priefts, and nobles,round herprefs,
tiefolv'a to seize their deftin'd prey :
Thus Furope combin'd)
To Poland''s doom is France confign'd}'
Yet thole, who now are thought so low,
From concerts that were ba/eiy gain'd,
Shall rife tremendous f, otn the biow, •
And free two Worlds, that itill are
chairi'd,
Restrict the Briton to his isle.
And Freedom plant in every foil.
Ye fans of this degenerate clime,
Haste. arm the barque, expand the fail;
Aflilt to speed that golden time.
When Freedom rules, and monarchs fail ;
All left to France—new powers may
join,
And help to crulh the cause divine.
Ah ! while I write, dear France Ali.v'd,
My ardent wifli I scarce restrain,
To throw these Sybil leaves allele,
And fly t6 join you on the main :
Pray heaven, your guns may never fail)
Nor George reward me with a j irl.
Univcrfity of Pennfjlvania,
July 12, 1-93.
r pIIE vacation to the philosophical clafles
commences on Mon'd?y the 15th inll.
and is to continue Ji\ \\ eeks ; and tor the
different Ichools, belonging to the Inflitu-.
tion, on Monday the 29th inft. to cOntinlif
Four weeks.
The Commencement foV conferring tie
greesonthe Undents of the senior clais,
who have been already examined before
the faculty and truflees, and approved oi hy
them, w ill be held on the 2d Wednefdyv of
September next.
As the philosophical profefTors will be
gin their com fe of le£lwres about the hit
of September, to the cl.iffes under their
care, and a it i-< ufnai tor ftudejiti- from
diflant p.irts, \vho wifli to inilh their tiill -
c tion in the UniverlTty, to enter one <>r
other of these cl fiVs, a cording to rh.-ir
proficiency in literature,' it is recoimrftnr!-
d to fucll liudents to make their applica
ti 1 for admiflion at that time.
The Leitur/S of the Provott for the be
nefit of the medical 1 udents will (,<• 1
.1 usual, 011 the jftrft of November, w -a •
the Lecture!of the medicalprofeflors com
mence.
Bv order of the Faculty,
WM- ROuUIS, Sec'rv,New Pennsylvania Militia Law.
.[Continued from our
Section X jind It it further mailed
by the authority aforefaid, That each of
The f id infpeftors shall on or before the
firft Monday in May next, and some time
between the firlt day and lad day of
March, in every succeeding year, ifTue
liis warrant, ditefted to the captain or
commanding officer for the time being
of each company of thefeveral battalion's,
or some other fit person in his brigade,
commanding him in the name of the
Commonwealth, to deliver to him, the
said it.fpeftor, within t n days from and
after the date of the said warrant, (on
oath or affirmation, which the faid-in.
fpeftorsaie hereby empowered to admi
nilter) a true and exact lilt of the names,
ana surnames of each and every free able
bodied white male citizen, of this or any
other of the United States, residing with
in the bounds of his company, between
the age of eighteen and forty live years,
not being such as are above declared ex
cepted from Militia duty, and lay fujh
lifts, within three days after he /hall havt
received the fame, before the brigadier
general of his brigade, who (hall there
upon divide his said brigade into regi
mental battalions and companies, in man
tier herein before directed, to each o
which he shall appoint proper diftrifts o:
local fub-divifioni, paying due regard t<
the conveniency of the inhabitants, anc
taking care that cach person be annexed t(
the numerical clafis to which he formtrh
belonged
Section XI. yind le it farther enattei
by the authority aforefaid, That the elec
tions of such officers as are by this ad(
declared to be elective, shall be made as
f llows : The several brigade infpeftori
shall, on or before the si ll Tuesday ol
June next, give notice, by ad-vertif ments
at c : ght or more of the tnoft public places
of each regiment bounds or diftrift, ap.
pointing a certain dav for cach diflrift,
nt less than ten days after the said notice,
ami requiring all the citizens enrolled in
the said regiment, and residing within the
bound*. thereof, except as is herein before
excepted, to meet at a certain place, as
■near the centre of the said diftrift as may
be, and then and there, between the hours
of ten in the morning, and fix in the after
Tl >n of the said day to elect by ballot, one
JL < utmant Colonel : and tie enrolled in
habitants of each battalion bounds refpec
tivel), shall elect by ballot as aforefaid,
or the fame, or some other day, and at
such place or places aB shall be mofl con
venient, but with the lead possible delay
one Major : a d the enrolled inhabitants
of each company bounds refpeftively,
shall elect by ballot as aforefaid, on the
fame or some other day, and at such place
or places at shall be noil convenient, but
with the least possible delay one Captain,
one Lieute lar.t, ind one Ensign ; previ
ous to which said elect-ion or elections
rclpiftivily, the said enrolled inhabitants,
fliall elect two refpeftable citizens, ro pre
side as judges thereof, who shall certify
to the ii fpeftor, the names of the persons
so elected; and cach Captain shall ap
point a suitable person for a clerk in hit
company, and the said I ifpeftor shall at
tend and fu,permt«nd each and every of
the said battal on elections, and after the
officers are elected, shall give notice there,
of to the brigadier, who shall cause th (
Lieutenant Colonels of his brigade to as.
femble together as soon as may be, to cafl
lots for rank of the regiments, and the
said Lieutenant Colonels (hail afterwards
call together the Majors and C ptains of
their refpefti-e regiments to cafl lots in
like manner for their refpeftive ranks,
and the ranks of the Lieutenant and En-
Sgns shall be determined by the ranks of
the Captains refp ftivcly, and the said
Inlpeftois ftalJ, as soon as may be, after
the officers fhaU have been elected, and
tl eir ranks ascertained, transmit proper
certificates to the Governor, of the names
of the pfrfons so as aforefaid elected, and
their ranks, in order that commissions may
b- granted to them, atcording to the said
certificates ; and elections for officers in
the Light Horse, shall be made in like
wanner as elections for officer* in the in
fantry and artillery ; and in every cafe
ofbitore vacancy, whether by death, re
flation orabfence, herein after provi
ded, the Brigadier in whose brigade such
vacancy or vacancies shall happen, shall
immediately tipon receiving notice there-
of, cause one or mors rcgimtr.t, battalion
or company ele&ions, to be held in man
ner and form aforef.iid, in order to fup
piy the fame, and (hall, when there (hall be
occasion, cause the ranks to be ascertained
and make return to the Governor, in man
ner herein before provided ; and wiiene
verany vacancy or vacancies (hall happen
as aforefaid, in any regiment, Battallion,
or Company, the commanding officer of
(uch Regiment, Battalion, t)i Company,
for the time being, (hall give im'.ediate
notice thereof to the Infpeftor of his b i
gade, that the fame may be filled up with
out less of time : and if any regiment,
battalion, troop, or company, being duly
noticed and required, as aforefaid, {hall
neglect, or refufe to e!c& their officers as
afarefaid, then it (hall and may be lawful
for the infpeftor of the brigade, to which
uich regimmt, battalion, troop, or com
pany fliall belong, to nominate* with the
approbation of tire Brigadier General,
one luiiable person to the Governor, in
the ro im of each officer so neglected to
be cho r en : and the said Governor appro
ving thereof, frail commission the said
pe son, which (halite as effectual, to all
intents and purposes, as if the laid officers
had been cle&ed as before dire&ed ; and
the said infpeftor (hall, a3 soon as r.iav be
acquaint the p : ties so ncglettin-v or re
fufing, with the appointments that (hall
have been made as aforefaid!.
Section XII. jind so it further encßed
h de authority afo'rfaid, That if any
commissioned officer (liall remove out cf
the bounds of his proper division* brigade,
battallion or company, except uithin the
city of Philadelphia (as the cafc may be)
or fliall he absent therefrom (otherwise
than oVj militia duty,) for more than fix
months, his office (hall be therelry vacated;
and if a light lwrfeman fliall remove or be
absent in like manner from the bounds of
his troop, or be appoimed or tlt<fted a
commissioned officer in any other part of
the militia, his place in the said light-horse
(hall hkewife be vacated.
fciedlion XIII. slnrt be it further enoOed
h the authority aforefaid, That every mi
litia man migrating or removing out of tl.e
bounds of one battalion or company to an
other, fh, 11 apply to the commanding of
ficer of tie company to which he diu
helong, who fli -11, give trim a discharge,
certify the class to which lie belongs, and
whether he has served his tour cf duty or
not, and the time snd date of (aid feivice
which certificate, the said militia wan
fnall produce to the captain or commanding
officer of the company in whose bounds
lie next fett!e», within ten days after his
s ettlement, :nd the said captain or com
manding officer is hereby required to en
roll him in the class fp«cifieil in the said
certificate.
Section XIV. /trd be it JartLer cnaSed
by the authority aferefai-d, Tliat the whole
of the Militia of this state (hall be fubjeft
to be mustered and exercised in regiments
& in companies, by their r. fpeftive officers
in the Autumn or Fall season qf every year
on the days h. rein after dated, to wit, in
regiments as follow, the firll regiments
of each and every brigade in the Com.
monwealth fliall be exercised on the third
Monday in the month of O&ober, th e
second regiments on the Tuesday follow.
ing, the third regiments on the Wedncf
nefday following, and so on, according tc
their numerical rank, on every day in the
week, (Saturdays and Sundays excepted)
until the whole number of regiments fha j
have mustered and exercised in the afore
faid manner, and the several regiments
fliall meet and cxercife in companies on
the firft Monday in the month of Octo
ber, and the Militia fliallbe, and is hereby
indemnified and excufeJ (rom muflering
and exercising cn any other days than
those enumerated in this act.
Se£tion XV. Sir.d he it fur/her enaEed
ly the authority afnrcfatd, That if any com
miffioued officer (hall, withotit a lawful ex
cufe, negle& or lefuie to attend on any of
the daysherem before appointed forexercif
if a field officer he (hall forfeit & pay thefum
of four dollars,& every other commissioned
officer fliall fotfeit and p >y the sum of two
dollars,& every non-commissioned offictror
private, so neglecting orrtfufing to attend,
(hall forfeit and pay the sum of one dollai
for every such negleCt or tefufal, except
such cemmiffiened officer, non commif
fioned officer and pr.vates w-ho (hall be
summoned, and actually attending on any
of the days of exercise aforefaid, ap a juro
or witness, in any comt within this Com
monwealth.: and the. fame fines, (liali
he refpeftively paid by every officer, t*>n-
eomm (Honed officer or prvtc, v.-!;o fliall
'eave the parade on a day of e::ercif--, be,
fore the regiment or c impEny is difchargec"
withoi t leave si ft had and obtained oi
the officer cotnii anding.
Sedtion XVI /ind be it further enaaer
by the authority iifor£jaid t In order to afcei -
uin those persons who by their abfenct
on the day- of cxerc.fe, (hall h3vc incar.
red the fines above mention d, a fergean:
or the < lerk of the company fhail, on everj
such day, in the pre encc of the Captair
or commanding officer of the company
at the end of one hour after the time ap
pointed lor the meeting of tlie Company
or regiment, and aifo afier the exe'cife i
over, and before the men are
call over a mi: Iter roll of the -Company
noting these who are cbfent, and a re
turn fliall be made, cn the fame cr follow
ing clay offuch abfemees which fhali b<
signed by t!>c Sergeant or Clerk, a,nd b\
the Captain or the commanding office!
if the toip'pany, and shall, within ten day:
:hereafter, if a regimental meeting, or ii
i company meeting, within ten days as ei
:ke next regimental meeting, be returnee
oy the said Captain or commanding offi
cer of the company, upon his oath cr as
firmation, to the Infpettor of the brigade
under the penalty of fifty dollars far eve
ry time he fliall refnfe or negledt tc
make such return, and if any of the fjic
nbfentees fliall have been unable to attend,
from, fickncfd or unavoidable neceffirv
and fliall ivithin the space of eight dayi
nest after the day of cxercife, itate hi:
cafe, by himfelf or his friend to the fait 1
captain or •commanding officer of the
company, and fjtisfjr him of the truth
thereof, then tlrefaidcaotain or command
mg office of rhe company, shall mentior
n his said return, the particular reasons
if excuse which each absentee shall hav;
Tiade appear to his fatisfa&ion, and the
nfpeftor, on fight of the said return, fha'i
idmit every such excuse «.s fha 1 appeal
o him reasonable, without favour 01
partiality, a :d remit the fines accordingly
>ut tio ei.cule flull be received at any olhi i
ime, or in any other manner thanisabovt
jrefcribed.
CTo be continued'}
THJS DAY IS PU HUSHED.
By mat-hew Carey
No. 118, Market StrtJt,
Embelliflie with a MAP of Sou b Amiric;
Ne. VII, Of a NEW SYSTEM Oh MoD£lU>
GEOGRAPHY.
3R, A GEOCiRAPHICAI., H.SitUUCAL
AND.COMMLRCIAL GRAMMAR;
And prelent Stzreof the Several
KINGDOMS OF THE WORLD.
CONT.AJN ING
. The figure?, n»otiofis, and distances of the pfa
nets, according to the Newtonian fyftein am
the latest observations.
I. A general view of the earth frorfidrred sc ;
planet j with several ufeful geographical defi
nitions *nd problems.
11. The prafid divwion of the flobe Into land
and water, continents and ifiand*.
!V. The fituatron and extent of empires, king
dt) i s, dates, provinces, and colonies.
V, 'j heir climates, air, Toil, vegetable produfli
on?, metals, minetals, natural curiofitie«, seas
rivers, bays,capes, promontories, and lake*.
/I. Tne bires and beaftspeculiar to each coon rv
VII. Oblervations cn the change? that have oeei
any where observed upon the face of natun
since the most early periods of liiftorv.
VJII. The history and origin of rations ; thei
for ms of government, religion, laws, revenues
taxes, naval and military strength.
X. The grnius, manners, cultoms, and habit:
of the people.
<. Their language, learning, arts, sciences, ma
nufactures, and,commerce.
rCI. The chief cities, ftruttures, ruins, and ar
tificial curiosities.
rvll. The longitude, latitude, bearing, and dif
tancesofthe principal places from Philadelphia.
TO WHICH ARE ADDED.
I. A Geographical Index, with the names, anc
places a Iphabeticaily arranged.
I. A Table of the Coin s of all Nations, and thci'
value in Englifli Money.
iil. A Chronological Table of remarkable event?
f/om the Creation to the present Time.
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE. F^;.
The Altronomical Pait by James ,RS
To lobicb have been added,
The late Dilci veries of Dr. Herfche', and othei
eminent- Aftronomeis.
jbe JlrJl American edition, ecr*£El£d 9 improved,
and greatly enlarged.
The pti'oliflier of this woik, thankful for the pat
ronage with which he h»s been honored, fub
mir* the pieient nu nber to the infpedtion o)
his /eiiow-citizens, and lays before them
The terms oi publication .
I. This geogiaphy (ha.l be pu'oli/hed ir forty
•eight weekiy numbers, each containing twen
ty.four paged of letter prela.
Jl. In course of the publication will be de
iivered the lollowing maps •
I* The world. 2. fcurope. 5. Sweden, Den.
n\cik, and Finland. 4. KuHia. 5
C. ane Wales. 7. Ixelano.
<>. rrsncf. r. Sere - Un'tfa Provinc??. is. An*
ffr.an and Kciicli .Motherlands. ji. G
* 2 ' S ""«Ml»n«. ,3 p„| a „d. Spa.n j, 1
'orhigai. , 5 . Ital). ,6. Turkey in Europe.
7' Alu - ,8 - China. 19. Uindaftan. 10. As.
'Ca. ji. K ort h America. 22. Uritiih Ame
rica. 23 Well-Indies. 14. South America.
25- I lamfphrre of the earth. *25. Countries
round the north cole. »x 7. Dilco.er.es made
y '-"tains Cooke and Clerke. *28. N f ».
Hampshire. '29. Maffachul'etts. *,0. Ccn
r edticut. »3». Rhode-Jfland. '32. Verm- Ir.
nj3. Nevr-Vork. » 3V Newjerfey.
ennfylvania and Delaware. » 3 6. Maryland.
*37- Virginia. *38. N<rfh-Carolina. *30.
S'Uth-Carolina. » 4 0. Ceorjia. *41. Ths
sphere. *42. '1 he Copernican fjftetr..
_ All t'he maps marked with flars are
o'ded to this edition, exclude of t«hofc in thfi
jft - edition.
That no difipnointment may arise from fub
f-ribcrs expe&ing what the publilher neither pro
niles no. is ible to perform, he gives this early
& e*p|ic;t notice, that to lomr of the States it will
oe impofF.blt for him t* give maps fully accurate*
no i>te surveys having been made $ and it is hard,
ly necessary to observe, that it falls not within
his plin to go to the exoenfe of furveys# F*,t in
every inflance, he will avail himfrlfof the btfl
materials extant-, and fj C h carredtions and addi
ions as his utmost cxeitions can ptocure, (hall
oe made.
111. The grcgraphy ef the United States Is un
dertaken by gentlemen of literary abilities, who
have engaged to give a more futl and fatisfatto
ry account of it than was ever pobliflied It
will extend to 250 or 300 pages, although iti
the British edition, and even in that of j g2
it makes only about 30.
I vs. Sho«\d the w<jrk exceed f>rty-ejp'nt num
bers, the furplua will be delivered gratia to the
fub^cribers.
V. 'i he price of each number wi.M be a quarter
dollar, to be paid on deliver}.
VI. Such futfr-ribers as do nor choose to receive
the wo k in numbers, are to pjy tbrce dollaig
at the t me of fubferibing.
The printer, anxious to render this work as
perfect as the nature of it will ail .w, rr.otf ear
nestly reqjiefts, that such gentlemen,
:he United States, as have it in their power, will
furnifh him with documents for correcting the
etoors in the geography of America, a d sos
urnifhing a more complete system of geography
:ha« has yet appeared.
Ihe title pace, lift of fubfenber*# am?e v.* *Ii
rh? account of the Newto- L.n lyfter. , £zc. See,
"ill be given n tne 47th and 48th s.
N. B Ine fuftferioers, and the public in ge
neral ?re requeued to consider the fallowing very
"njteric'l circunnlance—The London cuaito edi
:ion is fold to r fifteen dollars, although ic
• >ntains oolv 25 maps and pla es, and ,»f the
r >phy ot the United States, ss ha< beer, rred
1 bove, only ab. ut 30 pa^es—*hereas, Carey's
Hition will roetain 42 maps and plates, and have
:wo hundred pages of letter pref* more. And it
need not be observed, that the frven een m»ps to
•>e ad ed. are of impottamr to America
far, than the 2$ Lo n( fon ones. The obierva
will apply with equal force to the letter press
a \ litiors.
The map? will be rub!i/hed in (ach eirder #»
ucceffion as they are fn , ra*e i, and wi|f
printed tor the pfap&r manner of piacitig them
he okbindsr.
Ivventy-five Dollars Reward.
RAN away from the fubfrrifcrr, in NVvwr,
the evening nf the sth infla. a Negro man.
Tinted SOLOMON, abcut five ft-et two or three
high, yelbw complexion, fpesks prod
Engli/h, can rr?d well, ®nd an active smart
ellow—had on and took with him, a new woo\
linfey full'd coar, sundry tests, or,* {Inpeij
jatrern not made uo, futlian overalls, new i?:oes t
ind sundry others not here afVertainei. — Whoever
will secure the above mentioned in anv
ail, so that the owner gets him again fhsli nave
he above reward and ail reasonable charges, by
JOHN HEWITT.
Newtow, Su(Te* County, New-Jersey,
July 6, 1705. ' xai*
JUST PUBLISHED,
to be fold at the reflective Hook of
Joftrph Crukjbevk and Tbemas Dsbfon t and mav
be had at the Printing office, No. ac9, M*f
ket-Street^—— [Price ore cighb rf a collar, \
LET T E R S,
iddrefled to the Yeomanry of :!:<•
United StiAtf.s:
Containing fame Observations on Funding
and Eahk Syflttms'.
By am AMERICAN FARMER.
Ten Doiiarc Reward.
RAN away from the fubferiber cn thi
of June last, an apprentice lad ramed
,OS£PH CURTIS, by rrjde a house rarperter t
uout 19 \ears of age, 5 feet 9 inchr*. high, i»
left hanocd, l)#ir, full : had
DO when he went away a brown broadcloth coat*
(pith metal buttons, striped cotton waiftcol?,
and homrfpun linen trowfers, coloured. Who-' '
. ver will take up raid apprentice, and f= cce ifr-. 5
m jail, so that his master may get him agr n.
;r biinfij h:m home, ii)all receive tiie above re
ward 9 and reasonable charges paid by
WILLIAM COOKE.
3ordent«wn, July 6, 1793. *aw3«r
PRINTED BY
CHI LD S and S W AINE.
AT THEIk «rr JCE NO. 209, HICH-STHERTj
MAR riTTH STliriT,
TUILAV II.PKI.At