[NumS. 20 of Vol. IX.]
Suljlance of the delate in the Hcufe of Reprc
fentatiits of the United. States, en Friday
Decerrltr 28, relative to the ReduSim
cf the Miliary ejabfijhintnt.
MR. STEELE, agreeably to notice,
cr.lled up his motion, which is in
the following wordsßefolded, that e
committee be appointed tu prepare and
bring in a bill, to reduce the military
eftabliftiment of the United States to
regiments or corps confitting each
of noncomir.ifiioned officers, pri
vate*, and musicians, with such proporti
on of commifiioned officers, as the Presi
dent may think proper to continue in ser
vice ; and to repeal so much of an ast pas
sed the sth of March, 1792, intitled "An
" aftfor making further&more effeftua]
" provifmu ioV the protection ofthe fron
" tiers of the United States." as may
contravene this intention."
Mr. Steele declared he did not rife to
fay much trti this motion. The opinions
of members mull be taade up from obser
vations on fails that have come withir
their own knowledge, therefore, what lit
could advance, he did not suppose, would
change heir opinions. The lioule is i:
possession of the motion, and every mem
ber Hand- refpouGb'e to his constituents,
and to his own conscience for the part he
£hall ast i j '-" 1 lt-
He preface a some obfer\'ation3 on the
nature or ,< ments in the progress o]
their ad u.iihation. Time brings abu
ses into »oft, and he never was so fan.
guine/he said, as to expect, that the Fe
deral government would be exempt from
them. But when abnfes did creep in ts
the admiuiftnitian of a government, silence
he considered as criminal, and a quiet
aequiefcence woife:—a free people, ho v. -
ever, wtre incapable of feeing them with
outremonllrating, and the people of A
merica possessed enough of the true spirit
of freemen, n6t to fuffer the progress of i
ruinous war system, or to bear the burder
imposed upon them to support expensive
projefts'of ambition without remonftra
ting. The people of the United Statei
are peaceful, they are attached from edu
cation and habit to regularity and peace
he wa9 sorry, he said, that part of ou
adrtiinifttation did not appear to be gui
ded by the fame spirit. Chimerical pro
jests had been set on foot without regarc
to the public opinion ; —armies had beer
raised ;md maintained without affording
protection to the frontiers, and the ex
pence of this system had justly roused tin
indignation of our citizens. The mottc
of a republic (hould be, 'Economy anc
peace.' With these cardinal qualities
any nation may be happy, without then
no government can be tolerable. H<
should proceed, he said, to enquire how
far they had dictated the meafurt s of oui
government. For ttiis purpose he turnec
to the appropriations, for the purpose o
defraying the expences of the Indian war
He read some notes, taken from the ex
iftinglaws of appropriation and the efti
mate presented for the ensuing year, froir.
which it appeared, That
Por 1789 1 ij-yOQG Uols. were appropriated for tht
war dep. and 20,000 lor treaties'
90, 181,792 20,©00
91, 70*988$ 74 ccnts 20,000
52, ty293»549 25,000
9?, «,J73fr7'9 50,000
Making a total of 3,534,347 : 20 c. foi
the inpport ofthe system since the eftab
lifliment ol this young government. Hi
invited the house to take notice of tlii;
enormous turn,- —the pubi c, he said, had
done so aiready :—and this money liac
been or vras to be appropriated withoul
scarcely enquiring how former appropria
tions had been applied. He hoped tht
house would do something to check this
growing evil ; if they did not, he fhouic
invite he said, the secretary at war him
felf, to take a retrofpeft for twenty year!
into the history of the frontier, and en
quire into the expence of defending il
when the defence was entruikd to ftcb
By P. FRENEAU: PubhflucL Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
individual ftatc, ani to compare that ex
pence with what has already been incur
red under the present system: It would
be difficult,he said, to point out and jufti
fy the causes of their material difference.
There was no good rcafon why so ex pen -
five a system as that now pursued Ihoujd
be ncceffary; and if the expences of the
war department could not be reduced,
the country, he conceived would not cxe
able to bear them.
His motion was intended, and his mo
tives in making it, were, to aftord effec
tual protection to the frontier, to dimi
nish the expence at present incurred for
that objea, and apply the savings to the
redu&ion of the public debt. He wa
firmly of opinion that if an economical
system was pursued, the dcfence of the
frontiers could be effected and a finking
fund eftablilhed that would begin to ope
rate four or five years sooner than was at
present contemplated by the secretary of
the tieafury, and that without any addi
tional tax. He could not approve of
any finking fund that mull be entirely
supported by new taxes, —much lrfs of
one which wats to depeud solely on loans.
He next turned to the mode of war
fare adopted since the establishment of
the federal government against the Indi
ans The history of the frontier from
Braddafck's defeat to the present day am
ply proved, that regular armies are im
proper for that kind of war. Ifthis his
tory had been attended to and the fate
of that commander had been considered
and placed to its true cause, three milli
ons of dollars and many valuable lives
might have been laved to the United
States. A regular army is an expensive
machine, and in its operations unweildy
and tardy, composed of men without the
ueceffary enterprize, constitution and acti
vity to combat a savage foe, accullomed
to fatigue and fighting for their all.
He quoted a passage from a communi
cation fiom the secretary of war himfelf
to the house, to (hew the opinion he en
tertained df the enemy. Their fubtilty
and activity, and our ignorance of the
rountry and mode of warfare. The house
he said, had not fufficiently attended to
the inadequatenefs ofregular armies in op
position to such an enemy, as demonllra
ted by expeiience, and that pernicious
facility of borrowing had induced to
pass v.ith two little difficulty appropria
tion on appropriation, *o pursue it.
If taxes had been demanded to makethefe
provilions perhaps the legifiature, he fug-
would have been more caution!
how they proceeded.
He again adverted to the mode of war
tare which regular armies necessitated ; —
jne expedit on can only fce effe£leu in ont
year, and indeed, it had been found, that
ven one could not be accompliftied tlii;
year, b'.it one expedition could afford nr
.-ffettlial prote&ion to the frontier. Be
ides the motions of a regular army are ea
•ly watched and known, —Indians well
knowing when to expe£t their encmyj
will collect in full force, and beat us a;
i'liey have done, and will do again, if the
Tame system is pursued.
He wis of opinion that if such a mea
lure would be admiflible on principles ol
benevolence and policy, that the Incian
war might be farmed to the state of Ken
tucky, and completely terminated, for ont
half of the sum now about to be appro
priated to suppOrt the present futile fyf
tem. He appealed for the julhce of the
position to those gentlemen acquainted
with thefeeiiiigs and habits of the people
of that (late.
Upon thefuccefs of his motion he con
ceived the success of the war depended.
Regular troops could never fight in the
woods. If the system is not changed the
war will be a seven or a ten years' war.
Active and entsrprifing frontier militl.i
alone were equal to oppofwg Indians.
SATURDAY, January 5, 1793.
In bis motion, as offered, there was, he
Taid, a blank for the number of regiments
to remain on foot. He should propose,
at a proper time, he intimated, to till this
blank up with two, which would give
2no private;, regulars, quite enough,
even if the Prcfident should think, it neces
sary to garrison all the polls which have
been elllblifiied for the proiedtion of the
frontiers.
He enumerated these pods as follows :
Fayette, Hamilton, Stubcn, Knox.
Tammany", Teltair, Harmar, l ranklin.
Jefferfon, St. Clair, Marietta, Malfai.hu
setts, Matthews and Knoxville.
Abandoning the fvltem of active expe
ditions by regu ar troops and giving tc
each of these an equal of the 2120
men, compofi, 1 the two regiatients, each
poU would be prate&eti h-j ; ? privates.
This number vould be iulficienl
und greater tha 1 the how efend : g fomt
of those poll- 1 ' ' l - s.hcd it left dif
cretiouary with t.:. i'reudent to distri
bute them.
He ftr ed, that the only objection ol
the fecicUry at wax even to employing
the militia in this war, wa3 the expence.
He withed to refute that objedtiou and
went into a reasoning of some length on
the fnbjeft. Regular troops, when inlif
ted must be paid, cloathed, See during
the whole time of tfieir enlistment, whe
ther in a&ual service or not ; the militia,
tho' more expensive while on foot, yet be
ing on the spot, executing an expedition
in forty or fifty days, then returning to
their homes and immediately on their re
turn being out of pay, would be found
In tfce uwi"ttv.ich less expenfrve as well as
much more effe&ual. Five expeditions,
he computed, could be made in eack year,
bv a militia on or near the frontier, and
50,000 dollars he set down as fafikicnt to
pay the expence of cach of these expedi
tions.
To give an idea of the expence of re
gular troops and to shew the alarming
progrefi of expence on this score since tht
establishment of the new government, lit
gave the following items from appropria
tion laws oast and repoits of estimates o!
what will be necessary for the enfuingyear,
Contingencies for the war department.
For 1790includingexpreffe8,&c- 3,000
9 1 5,000
10,000
ellimate for 93 50,000
Quarter Mailer's department.
Appropriations for i 790
91 25,000
92 50,000
estimate for 93 100,000
Hofpiral Department.
Appropriations for 1790 i.ooo
91 1,635. =<=
92 6,000
estimate for 93 25.000
Ordnance Department.
Appropriations for 1790 7,640.6..
91 6,303. 6f
92 7> 20 4- M
ellimate for 93 2 3>®35 -
The provision for the last mentionec
department, he conceived, bore a very lu
dicrous appearancc. He considered it as
absurd to attempt fighting Indians wal
artillery. Not all the artillery of Europt
would avail againlt such a foe. He coi/K
not fee that either reason or policy woulc
warrant an appropriation of upwards o:
23,000 dollars in the present fcflion foi
the purchase of artillery for such a war
And added that it feem'd ftiange, thai
the ordnance procured by the Unitec
States to carry on the British war hat
not been fufiicienttt) defend the frontie:
garrisons, without calling upon the go
vernment to appropriate in four years
the sum of dollars for this pur
pose.
[Total No. 124.]
He next turned to the pay, subsistence
and cloatliing of the troops. He premi
sed on this head, that it was well worth
conlidering, whether those articles kept
up an exadl proportion with the encreafe
of the troops, in the itemshe (liould give:
they certainly should, he conccived. If
the proportion of the sums latterly appro
priated according to estimates for thcfe
articles proved greater, there mud be, he
contended, abiife somewhere, and it cer
tainly is the duty of the Houfeof Repre
sentatives to examine where the blame
lies.
Pay of the troops Subsistence.
Approp. 1790 59,028 42,552
91 74,916 59,787
92 102,686 119,688
Etlim. for 93 304,308 312,567. 75
Cloathing. Total.
24,440 126.020
23,772.80 158,47580
48,000 270,374
112,000 728,875
He was at fomc loss to account for
:he want of proportion in the items above
[lated, compared with the number of
:roops employed,—perhapi more officers
were under pay than the public lervice
-equirecl,—thefe things deserve thorough
nvt Ptigation.
lie proceeded to show what would be
!aved to the United States by a change
:>f fyltem. He (hewed by a quotation
"rom a report of the secretary of the trea
sury, ihat it was the opinion of that of!i»
:er, that the current service of the en!u
injr year would probably require the
whole of the revenue ; but that he con.
templates a valuable furplfis for the re
demption of the debt, should a termina
tion be put to the Indian war. He made
[bine observations 011 the importance of
redeeming the public debt, as speedily
as pofllble, and complimented the secreta
ry of the treasury, in refpett to the dispo
sition he had shewn on thk fubje<S.
He was of opinion, that with peace and
Economy the resources of the country
would be fufficient to accomplish its total
redemption in ten years, by purchases
and regular inltalment payments —Under
the present fyflem of warfare, a begin
ning cannot be made without levying, a
new tax, and a new tax cannot be gran
led, until tie ..bufes of the war depart
ment areconlidered and corrected .
He proceeded to (hew the economical
effe£l of the redu&ion he proposed 011 onr
finances, by comparing the appropriation
of' 92 with the cflimate for 1793, for
tl'W war department.
Contingent Expences,
As fettled at the
treasury, 1792, 10,229
Per ellimaje 1793,50,000
Difference — 39>?7 3
Quarter Mailer's Depaatment,
1792, 50,000
1793, 100,000
Difference 50,000
Hospital Department.
1792, 6,oca
1793, 25,000
Difference 19,000
Forage for Cavalry, See.
>?9*. 4> l 5 2
'793' 44> 5 5 6
Difference 40,704
Ordnance Department.
The whole provifioa for this
department he conceived might
go out, however, to pursue his
plan, he took the difference.
1792, 7,204.64 c.
1793.23,835.64 c.
Difference 16,63*
Pay, Subfilter.ee and Cloathing.
1792, 270,374
17(43,728,8-5
Diffeience 458,50!
Total saved 624,607 dols-This was the annual saving he propofud.
In his calculation, he remarked, he neglec
ted the bounty held out to the 1600 men
yet to be enlilted. As he wai counting by
lens and hundreds of thoulands, this fuiii
he did not think worth attending to.
He concluded, that thedecifion of this
queition would speak thefenfeof the house
in regard to the cxilling jylleni, and whe
ther there was in the government a seri
ous desire to obtain peinanent peace, to
defend the frontier effettualfy, and to pro
vide, without resorting to new taxes or
loans, far the regular and ipeedy reduction
of the public debt.'—An object whichfeenu
to be nighly desired by tne secretary ol
thetreafury, and all other diiinterelted ci
tizens throughout the (jnioii.
C To be continued. J
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
N A M U K, Ollober 11.
The army under General Clairfayt have
paid dear for their attempts against France.
These troops have undergone the greatest
possible distress : they were 4 days with
out eating—at last they killed and eat their
horfeu, and if a truce had not been made,
they mult all have surrendered; out of
6000 cavalry, which composed this army,
not above 400 will return; the relt are all
either killed, taken, or the horses eaten I
The remains of General Clairfayt'i army
have already pafled the French frontier.
Hague, October j6. The various fuc
cell'es of the French in Germany and Sa
voy, occasion a good deal of coniternation
in this country, anil government is afraid,
left patriotism Ihoukl again rear its head.
Dumourier's threat of taking up his win
ter quarters at Brufl'eb, occalions a prodi
gious alarm, becaufc the people here well
know that it would be only a step to pro
ceed thence to Holland. Government
conlequently pursue vigorous ineafures a -
giinft all thole who are suspected of favor
ing patriotic'ideas, and the States of Hol
land have lately ifiued an order on this
subject.
Brujfels, Oct. 17. We hear from the
provinces of Nanuir and Luxemburgh,
that the army of their royal highnefies
Monsieur and the duke d'Artois, is dis
banded, as well a's that under the com
mand of the duke de Bourbon—the indi
viduals of which these armies were com
posed are in the greatest distress, wander
ing ind dispersed, without knowing where
to go, or what is to become of them; ma
ny without money; others felling their
horses, watches,and even their clothes. We
have seen some ofthera with no other cove
riagthan a blanket. A great many have got
only the iiiirt upon then; backs, and are
wading through thick and thin with half a
pair of ihoes. All these poor unfortunate
men have got their discharges in their
pockets, and anxiously delire to return to
their native country. It is to be hoped
that the French will shew themselves a ge
nerous nation in this instance ; and that
their humanity will lead them to forgive a
suppliant enemy.
Lijle, Oft. to. The fire of the enemy
ceased on the morning of the 6th, but they
did not abandon the villages of Fives, He
lemmes, Anappe, and other places in the
neighbourhood till the Bth.
They began their entrenchments ou
Tuesday, Sept. 25. Nothing could be
more beautiful or better disposed than
their works, and every one who has seen
them is astonished that they were able to
form them in so Ihort a space of time.—
The batteries rose one above another in
gradation, at the diflance of 100 paces from
each other, and they were so strong, that
15,000 men could uot have dislodged the
Auftrians. The loss which they hare oc
casioned to this city is estimated at fix mil
lions of livres.
Vienna, Oft. 6. The police of Vienna
redoubles its utmost attention to watch
foreigners as well as the fubjefts of the
Emperor, who may be infected with the
spirit of liberty.
According to the observations which
have been some time making, it has been
discovered, that those citizens whose at
tachment to the country was molt depend
ed upon, are the declared enemies of mo
narchical government, and have every
where endeavoured to make proselytes to
this opinion. It is found that persons of
all clafl'es and conditions are in these clubs ;i
it is feared therefore, that the tempest,
which must burst upon them, will be the
more dreadful.
Rome, Sept. 29. In this place, the
friends of the French are more numerous
than can be imagined, and the people want
nothing but a leader to crush the Papal
authority, and rescue themselves from fu
perltition and oppreflion.
Four thousand men were last week rai
sed, and ordered to the banks of the Ty
ber. They desired to know for what pur
pore they were embodied, but their requi
lition was denied. However, having come
to the knowledge that they were to em
bark for the purpose of alfifting the Auftri
ansto fight against the liberties of France,
these citizen ioldiers to a man laid down
their arms, and fold their regimentals to
the Jews.
The status of St. Peter, in St. Peter's
church,has been ftript of the gorgeous and
codly apparel, in which the Saint is annu
ally drefled, in compliment to the birth
day of his holiness the Pope. He now ap
pears in deep mourning, lamenting the
misfortunes of Louis ! —The Pope and his
Cardinals have put on sack-cloth and a(h
es, ami the statue of Pafquin is covered
daily with satirical poems against his holi
ness and his friends, which iu days of yore
would have been by the ignorant pronoun
ced—blasphemous!
His holiness, the Pope, has issued abun
dance of plenary indulgences, and promi
lirtg eternal liappinefs, to ail those who
{hall be killed in fighting against the re
public of France.
Londonderry, Oft. 30. The following
is a brief lketch of the present posture of
affairs on the continent :—A continuation
of the success of the French arms in Pied
mont, Savoy, and Swiflerland—The Prus
sians evacuate Verdun by capitulation, and
are quitting the French territory totally ;
it is generally thought, that the king of
Prufiia has made a separate peace for him
felf, leaving the Auflrians to fhift for
themselves—The king of Spain has given
up going into the unprofitable couteft ;
General Cuftine makes heavy contributi
ons on the Ecclefiafkical princes on the
banks of the Rhine—Gen. Oumourier, at
the head of jo,ooo men, preparing to
march to Brussels, there to plant the tree
of liberty, and to revenge the republic for
the burning of the houses at Lille—Strong
symptoms of discontent and revolt among
the people in the Netherlands, Germany
and Italy; the feeds of liberty are spring
ing fact up even under the holy walls of
the Vatican ! At Paris, adilference of opi
nion exists between the Convention and
the people of the capital (spirited on by ]
the jacobins) refpefVing the embodying a
protefling guard from the 83 depart
ments—The majority of the Convention
apparently inclined to lenient measures
with the unfortunate Louis the Last.
Strajbonrg, Oct. 10. The people of this
city have formally interred Louis the '6th, as the
last of his crowned race The coffin was follow
ed by a vast number of fictitious princet and ca
puchins, barons, 2nd Franciscans, gentlemen, and
doiftors of the Sorbonne, knights of the red and J
blue ribbons, dolors of the law, &c. &c. befidei
20,00Q male and female citizens,and a bando mu
sic playing the Dead March and the tune of Ca ira.
■
For the National Gazette.
To the Noblesse and Courtiers of
the United States-
W ANTED against the 2 if! of Februa
ry, a person who is well skilled in the trade
of verlifying, and who is willing to offer up
his talents to government as a Poet Lau
reat. As this is somewhat of a new trade
in the United States, and the person offer
ing himfelf may be aukward in the duties
which he is called to perform, it is intend
ed to write to the poet laureat of his Bri
tannic majelly for a few lessons. One
thing, however, will be certainly required,
a dexterity in compoling birth-day odes,
soaring above this clod for models for the
charaflers laureated. To compare an of
ficer of government to any thing on this
earth, would be an anti-hyperbole, unfuit
ed to the majesty of the fubjeft. It will
not be mal-apropos for the poet, in order
to render himfelf the more acceptable, to
have an intimate knowledge of the causes
of decline of all the republics which have
preceded us, that he may celebrate those
causes as favorable to American prosperi
ty. The ignorance of Americans will
render this tale highly pleasing—To give a
more perfect accommodation to this almost
new appointment, certain monarchical
prettiucjfes must be highly extolled, such as
levees, drawing-rooms, /lately nods in/lead
ofjhaking hands, titles of office, feclufton
\ from the people,&c. It may be needless to
mentioncertain other trifling collateral du
ties, but that the poet may be acquainted
with the whole circle of requisites, it may
not be amiss to hint, that occafioual strokes
of ridicule at equality ; the absurdity that
the vulgar, namely, the people, should pre
sume to think and judge for themselves ; 1
the great benefit of rank and distinction ;
the abomination of equality fnppofing that
the officers of government ought to level
themselves with the people, by viliting;
them, inviting them to their tables, &c.
may be introduced by way of episode to
the poem. It is a wretched and mad opi
nion that some high flying republicans
maintain, that officers of government
ought to deport themselves as the equals (
of the people: it is founded in human na
ture, that when men are exalted above
their fellows, they should feel a conse
quence, exercise an insolence, and observe
a stately superiority over those who have
advanced them ; for by equalizing them
selves with the inobocracy, they diminish
that reverence andJubmijjion, which ought
neceflarily to be annexed to every impor
tant office. The majesty of the people is a
ridiculous solecism—it ought to be the
jefty of the officers of government, " stuck
o'er with titles and hung round witfi
firings." As theobjefts are Iketched which
are to engage the attention of the poet, it
only remains to mention, that the perfoti
who can render this essential service wifi
be well provided for by government either
at home or abroad. Dec. 31.
From the /fmtricait Daiy Aivertijcr.
Mr. Dunlap,
HAPPENING to be at theHoufe ofßepre
fegxatives the other day, when the bill was
debated, for taking the money appropria
ted to the French debt, and applying it to
the bank ; and the motion for ltriking out
t.Vvo million and putting in 200,000, the ac
tual sum due the bank, was loit by the vote
of the Chair, I could not but clearly fee
the force of what has been offn said, re
fpeftingthe tendency of the bank to influ
ence the government, and the opportunity
the members of the bank, being also mem
bers of the government, would have to
forward the interest (including theirovvn)
of that powerful inflitution. For it was
clear on that occasion (and may be the
lame on all fuch-like occasions) that if the
members of the bank (who were doubtless
coring in a matter of their own interest)
had not voted, or if they had been divided
in their votes as much as other uninterest
ed members, that the question would have
jeen very otherwise decided. This ap
pears to me a mod serious matter, and that
-alls loudly on the public attention. The
deaol changing any appropriations, strikes
iifagreeably ; but to take money intend
ed for our allies, who lent us in our day
of trial— : at the crilis when the fate of their
awn glorious cause of liberty is depending,
ivas horrible to the feelings of an Ameri
can heart; and I do not believe would
lave been thought of for any other pur-
Jose (fhorr of felf-prefervation) otherthan
:o serve the bank ; and therefore, it de
nonftrates the mighty and truly-alarming
' "fluent e the bank has already got over
-lie government.
An honejl Republican.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Monday, Dec. 31.
A petition wasprefented and read, from
:he corporation of Rhode-Island college,
jraying compensation for reut, and dama
ges done to the said college, which, in the
jime of the war, was occupied by the
rrench and American troops as a hospital
Si barracks—Also, a petition of IJaiah Tho
nas, printer, of Mafl'achufetts, praying
.hat the duty 0:1 printing types, imported
rom Europe, may be remitted ; and that
:ertain bonds by him given to the collector
3f Bolton diflrict for the payment of fiich
Juries, may be cancelled—Referred to the
Secretary of the Treasury, to examine and
-eport thereon.
'A memorial was read, from the officers
•>{ the late Mafl'achufetts line of the army,
n behalf of themselves and the soldiers,
faying compensation for arrears of pay,
511 the depreciated certificates granted
:heni for services, &c. — Laid 011 the table.
The engrossed bill for ascertaining the
:ees " demandable in cases of admiralty
proceedings," and " for amending the ast
: or the regulation of seamen in the mer
:hants' service," was read the third time,
jaded, and sent to the Senate for concur
rence.
Mr. Williamfon reported a bill to amend
in ait for eftablilhing a mint, and regulat
ng the copper coins of the United States
—Read twice, and referred to a commit
:ee of the whole House to-morrow.
The House then proceeded to consider
Lhe report of the committee on " the pe
:ition of several of the inhabitants of Port
St. Vincennes, on the Wabalh. to be re
releafed from the expences of re-survey
ing their lands," and on "the letter from
the Governor of the N. W. territory on
the fame fubjeft." The report was favor
able to the petitioners—and a bill was or
dered to be brought in enacting " that the
lands of the petitioners who had made set
tlements previous to 1783, should be re
furveyed at the expence of the United
States.
Mr. Goodhue, from the committee, pre
sented a bill relative to claims against the
United States, not barred by any ast of li
mitation, and which have not been alrea
dy adjusted—Read twice, and made the
order of the day for next Thursday.
On renewal of a motion for that pur
pore by Mr. White, a committee was ap
pointed to bring in a bill " to eftablifb the
judicial courts of the United States," in
refpeft to taking bail in criminal cases.
A melfage was received from the Presi
dent of the United States, notifying his
having approved and signed the " ast for
registering and recording Ihips or veflels."
The House then, in committee of the
whole, took into consideration the bill
making appropriations for 1793 —Some a
mendments were made—and progress re
ported.—On motion, the committee oi
the whole was discharged, and the bill re
committed to the original committee.
A melfage was received from the Senate
by Mr. Otis, communicating a letter (sign
ed by about 150 of the citizens of Tou
louse, in France) to the Congress of th<
United States, denouncing M.dela Fayette
On motion of Mr. Grove, a refolutioi
palled the House, that the Secretary of th(
Treasury, the Secretary of State, and th<
Secretary at War, be directed to lay be
fore the House, lilts of the several person;
employed in the offices of their refpeftive
departments, with the salaries allowed to
each.
The House, in committee of the whole,
proceeded to consider the report of the
committee on the petitions of a number of
persons praying to be placed on the pension
list—Rose without coming to a decilion, to
take the fame into conlideration again to
morrow.
Tuesday, Jan. i.
A petition from Samuel Lindfay, pray
ing compensation for services rendered as
lieutenant in the late army, was read and
referred to the Secretary of the Treasury
—Also, a memorial from Nicholas Reib,
praying compensation for services, &c.—
Referred to the Secretary at War.
Mr. White brought in a bill to explain
the ait for eftablilhing judicial courts, and
taking bail in criminal cases—Read twice,
and made the order of the day for next
Friday.
The House, in committee of the whole,
took up the copper-coinage bill—several a
mendments were made and agreed to, and
the bill ordered to be engrossed. The
weight of a cent is fixed at eight penny
weight sixteen grains. In the course of
the debate on this bill, Mr. Boudinot mov
ed that instead of the figure of Liberty, hi
therto exhibited on specimens of American
coin, Ihould be substituted that of Colum
bus, the original difauverer of America—
On putting the question, this motion was
negatived.
In committee o? the whole, the House
proceeded to consider the report of a fe
ie£t committee, refpefting invalids—Several
amendments were agreed tp, and a com
mittee appointed to bring in a bill accor
dingly.
Tile bill for compensating Udney Hay, for
a claim of interelt, was also taken up in
the committee of the whole—reported
without amendment, and ordered to be
engrofled for a third reading to morrow.
The bill for fettling the claims of
Lewis Garranger, for services, &c. was,
ifter being amended, ordered to be en
rolled.
The reportof the committee, during the
ast fefiion, on the petition of John Tucker,
ivas considered. The sum then reported
ivas struck out, and a committee appointed
:o report a bill, with a blank for the sum
:o be allowed.
Wednesday, Jan. a.
Several petitions were reported on, and
•he reports laid on the table.—The fol
owing engrolfed bills were read a third
:ime andpafied —ift. For fettling the ac
:ounts, of Lewis Garranger—2d. Toa
tnend the ast for a copper
linage—and 3d. A bill to allow the pay
ment of interest due to Udney Hay, &c.
Mr. Sedgwick reported a bill for com
-senfat ing John Tucker—Read twice,
ind made one of the orders of the day for
;o-morrow.
On motion of Mr. Gerry, the several pe
titions of the officers of the army were
-eferred to a committee of the whole
House on Monday next.
A melfage was received from the Secre
tary of State.containing a lift of the persons
smployed in his department, and the fala
;ies received by each, communicated pur
uantto a refolutionof the House on Mon
day last.
The House, in committee of the whole,
proceeded to consider Mr. Steele's motion
tor reducing the military eftablilhment of
the U. States; debate was had thereon till
the hour of adjournment;progrefs was then
reported, the committee to fit again on
the fame fubitct.
The House, in committee difcufled the
bill for compensating the widows and or
phans of persons killed by the Indians
while under the fanftion of flags of truce.
—The committee refe without coming to
a decision.
Thursday, Jan. 3.
The petition of Charles King, praying
to be placed on the pension lift, was read,
and laid on the table.
Mr. W. Smith, of the committee ap
pointed, reported a bill to regulate claims
to invalid pensions—Read twice, and com
mitted for to-morrow.
A letter was read from the Secretary at
War, enclosing a lift of the several persons
employed in the department of war, with
the salaries allowed to each.—Laid on the
table.
The report of a feiect committee on the
petition of Joseph Henderfon, was refer
red to 3 committee of the whole to-mor
row.
The House then went into committee
of the whole on the bill making compensa
tion to the widows and orphans of persons
bearing flags of truce to the Indians, Mr.
Dayton in the chair, and having made se
veral amendments to it, rose and reported.
The House ordered that the amendments
lie on the table.
The House then resolved itfelf into a
committee of the whole, Mr. White in
the fhair, on the motion to reduce the mi
litary eftablilhment of the United States.
—After some time spent therein, the com
mittee reported progress, and allied leave
to fit agaia.PHILADELPHIA.
January j.
A correspondent observes, that it would
feetn bad policy to reduce the present ar
my establishment, before the concluiion of
something like a firm and general peace
with the Indians. Disarming any part of
our war eftabliihment before that period
will leave us at the mercy of the savages,
to fettle matters upon their own terms—
It has always been a European maxim,
to make peace with the jxvori in your hand.
—Our frontier is becoming so thickly fet
tled that the Indians now find it eafierto
get a living by plunder than by hunting ;
and they will not fail to prefer the firlt of
these modes, if they are not restrained by
a certainty of puoilhinent from a iuperior
force.
On Thursday, afternoon, a number of
the friends of equality and ot the French
revolution, Americans and French, assem
bled at Oeller's-hotel, to commemorate
the glorious fuccelTes of the republican
armies of France over the despots of Prus
sia and Austria. Fifteen toafVs, truly re
publican, were drank at the entertainment
>rovided on this occasion.
t
Extrad of a letter from Columbia, South-
Carolina; Dec. 9, 1792.
" The electors of President and Vice-
Frefident have voted for the present gen
tlemen in office. Major Butler is re-eie£t
ed to the Senate of the United States. The
gentlemen in nomination were Governor
Pmckney and Major Butler ; the former
had eight votes, the latter one hundred and
eighteen ; —a pretty strong evidence of the
sentiments of this country of Major But
ler's public conduit. —There is no man
possesses the esteem and confidence of his
fellow-citizens more highly than Major
Butler."
Decree of the National Legijlative Ajftm
bly of France.
Sep. 5. 1792-
1. The importation of every kind of
tobacco in the leaf is to be permitted,
from and after the firft day of October
next, on paying 10 livres the quintal for
the tobaccoes which are fubje£t to the duty
of 18 livres 15 foijs : 12 livres 10 sons for
those which pay 25 livres : and 15 livres for
all others,except those in fegars, which (hall
pay 25 livres. The duties of 10 livres and
12 livres 10 foils shall be levied as well on
the tobacco which shall be imported, rec
koning from the above date, as on those
which shall then be in Entrepot. The to
baccoes of the Levant shall be admitted in
bales ; those of Amersfort, in hampers,
and those of the Colonies in bundles.
2. Leaf tobacco imported by sea, shall
have the righto enterpot eighteen months.
They may even pass, by a continuation of
entrepot from one port to another. They
shall pay the duty on the actual weight,
and only at the expiration of the time of
entrepot, or when theylhall be taken from
thence for national consumption. The
whole on condition that the ware lioufes
shall only be in the ports, furnifhed by the
merchants at their own expense, aud of
which the regie shall have a key,
3. Manufactured tobacco which (hall be
fold in consequence of seizure, shall be
fubje£t to a duty of 15 livres per quintal,
4. Tobaccoes seized from persons un
known, and not reclaimed, may be fold
three days after notice, to the solicitor of
tiie corporation, and advertifmg the decree
of confiscation : the nett proceeds of the
sales (hall be paid immediately to the per
sons seizing, and divided according to the
rules established, or to be eftablifhed
j. Where several seizures of tobacto
shall be separately made from persons un
known, within the jurisdiction of the fame
dlftriit-tribunal, and the value of each
parcel seized shall not exceed jo livres,
the regie may demand confiscation by a An
gle petition, which shall contain the esti
mate of each parcel of the tobacco, and a
decision shall be IfTued on the said petition
by one and the fame judgment.
6. The resolutions, in the two preceding
articles shall be executed, in refpetl to all
seizures made from persons unknown, of
things which shall not have been reclaim
ed.
Ex trail of a letter from Mr. Femvict, con
sul of the United States at Bordeaux, to
t'le Secretary of State, dated Septem
ber 28.
' " THE crops of grain have proved
much less than was expected in all the
southern departments of France, and con
siderable foreign supplies will be wanting.
Mr. Cathalan, vice consul of Marseilles is
now here, encouraged by the citizens of
that place and the profpe£t of the scarcity
of grain to come as far as this, and go even
to America in order to buy and procure
supplies of wlieat and flour, but the uncer
tainty of tiie times has deterred him from
going on to America. We shall also want
much in this, and the neighbouring de
partments, and I prelume the prices will
S(j e high."
ExtraS if a letter from Mr. Vanderhorft,
consul of the United States at Brijiol, to,
the Secretary of State, dated Otlober 10.
A very uncommon wet harveit-time
here, has done muc|i injury to the crops of
grain, which were before very promiiing ;
corn in eonfequence has confulerably ad
vanced in price, and it is expected, will
(till be higher, so that there is at present,
no doubt aipong our merchants in this
place, but the ports of this kingdom, Will
in the course of next month, be opened,
for the admission of foreign grain of ail
forts—indeed so confident are they of this
that many of them have already sent large
orders abroad for the purchaling of corn.
The triumph of Liberty is now,in a great
measure, complete. The invaders oi
France are every where retreating before
the vi£torious armies of that republic. Il
is no longer in the power of Europe tc
bring about a counter-revolution. We
behold the French nation aflame a firn:
character and republican manners. We
fee order return, and diffufe the spirit oi
liberty; their resources encreafe, and'theii
armies are tenaciousof difciplint'. Unanimi
ty and connection mark their measures ol
defence ; and the confidence of the whole
people in the National Convention, give:
energy to their power, and success to their
operations. Had a king formed no part
of their original conllitution, it may now
be discovered, that the functions of its of
fices would never have been perverted.—
Even the friends of monarchy are now
convinced, that the second revolution was
unavoidable, and that there was no alter
native on the 10th of August between free
dom and slavery.
On the 14th of October, a citizen of Pa
ris preftnted to the National Convention,:
child, in whofeeyes, Nature had imprintec
the perfect representation of a Dial ; sot
whose future maintenance (being blind]
the convention ordered competent proviii
-011 to be made.
Some there are who complain that nc
original poetical compolition appears ai
present in the United States, but merelj
the old Liberty MaJ'i hafliedover and ovei
3gaiu. Whatever truth there may be ir
this obfervution, it would not be amifsfoi
these sticklers for novelty likewise to con
template the want of originality in theii
friends and patrons, in framing certair
political fyilems for this country ; the au
thors of which, altllo' cried up for fuel:
wonderful head-pieces by the speculators,
seem to have been more intent upon ftudy
ingand plundering from the British statute
book, than puzzling their brains, with in
vention, or even with i-nprovsme'Tt on in
vention. —What a striking resemblance do
we at present exhibit, in several particu
lars, to the machinery of a certain Europe
an insular government'.—insomuch, thai
were any American patriot or soldier, whe
fell during the war, to rife from his grave,
and come among us at this hour, he mighi
well cry out, with the surprized Scotch
man, on -mother occasion,
" This is nae mine ain hoofe,
" I ken by the rigging o't I"
{From Nevibzrn{ N.C ) December ir.]
The circuit court of the United State:
was opened here on the 30th of November
and continued open train day to day until
Tuefdaythe tith inft. when it was ad
journed by the diftrift judge until the ill
of June next :—No business of any kinc
was done, owing to the absence oi the cir
cuit or aflbciate justices—The jurors at
tended with great punctuality and patience
the whole time, although this is a very bu
sy and important season with the plantei
and farmer. Mr. Johniton, one of the as
sociate justices, had held thecourts inSouth-
Carolina and Georgia, and was taken ill al
Augulta, and his letter, authorizing the ad
journment of the court, was not receiver
until Monday the 10th. Several pirate;
have been for many months confined here
in a loathsome dungeon, praying for their
execution as a tender mercy compared with
their present confinement —and two per
sons, who were only so unfortunate as tc
be the witnesses of their crimes, not being
able to give security for their appearance,
are confined in a manner not much more
comfortable. Tiiefe poor wretches are
now doomed to fuffer the inclemencies oi
the winter in a iituation already shocking
to humanity. The accidental interrup
tions of the federal courts iince their insti
tution in this slate, and the entire loss ol
this term, have brought them into some
disrepute, both with the suitors and the
people. The judicial fyllem was so de
fective, both in point of principle and ar
rangement, and so aukward and unwieldy
in its operation, that the second feffiun oi
Congress saw the neceflity of an entire al
teration ; they modestly avoided the
work themselves, as if it had been a tail'
beyond their strength, notwithilanding the
number of profefliotial gentlemen in both
houses, and ordered the attorney-general,
in the Gongreffional style, a fort of Secre
tary of the law department; to report tnt
necelfary amendments ; —an elaborate fo
lio pamphlet appeared at the next feflion.
and thepeople exported the business would
have been immediately taken up.but anothei
of their fecretanes made a report on a pro
ject infinitely more interelt'.ng—[to indivi
duals); and thiselegant piece of refinement
and obscurity, the report of the secretary
at law, was immediately consigned to ob
livion ; and the great object of the admi
nistration ofjuftice, and the reputation of
the national government, were equally
forgotten and neglected.
[From the Bolton Independent Chronicle. _
" Congrattilations to the public, that
none who areftiled antifederals, or, to ex
press their meaiting more clearly, thai
none who had objections to the adoption
of the new constitution, are ele£t£d or ap
pointed to any places in the adininiftratior
thereof, have not a very conciliatory ap
pearance ; the hopes also of certain high
toned federalifts, publicly expressed, thai
this class will ever be excluded from an\
of the honors or emoluments, any of the
tru'ls or profits of this government, which
isiaid to hold forth its bleflings equally tt
every class of citizens, creates a difgufl
nhat,fooi:er or later, will be felt by the de
llgning and ambition*, and which alread)
canPes rhefervile abettors of power, part}
awl intrigue, to tremble.
It is well known, t! ,t while the consti
tution was in agitation, there were at lead
feven-eighlhs iof the v. oie mass of th«
people opposed to it. It is well known,
that many ge Jileir.en 'of uniform princi
ples, and acknowledged integrity, oppofec
the adoption, in its plefent form, withoul
tirlr pruning those excrefcenets, which, al
a future period, when the principles oi
freedom ur.-. ' be io ve as at pre-
Pent : when the lire' of liberty may he i
little deadened, iii endanger the happi
ness, if not defti Oy the ir.depr idence oi
the country. It is well known, that the
acceptance of it, was effected by fraud
lifiiinulation, artifice and intrigue, if nol
t>y corruption. It is well known, thatthe
i trge minorities of the several conventi
ons, and die larger majorities of the peo
ple abroad, submitted, in the decision o:
the conventions, to that maxim in poli
tics' '■'■that the majority (hould govern?
that they acquiesced in this nominal, ima
ginary majority, with a magnanimity and
jenerofity, that did infinite honor to this
enlightened nation. It is well known, that
liftory does not record an instance of fucli
i numerous class of citizens, many of their
-electable from birth, education, meril
ind abilities, so peaceably, and with fc
itcle murmur, submitting to, and tolera
ting such a torrent of obloquy, as has beer
tonllantly thrown upon them, merely foi
i difference in opinions, upon one e>f the
jreateftcjtrefHons, that almost ever agita
:ed a people ; which was thrown open tc
iebate, and in which it was ahnoft impof
ible for them to have agreed. It is wel
mown, that the antifederals, so termed,
ivere in general, as well convinced of the
leceflity of a firm energetic system of go
vernment, both for the honor and happi
lefs of the country, as any class of men :
out they could not be convinced of the
neceflity of the violent haste, with whict
this form was obtruded on the people, foi
the gratification of the ambition and ava
rice of certain high toned ariltocrats. I
is well known, that the oppolers of the a
ttoption of the new government (unlef
jrevioufly amended) have been as gooe
citizens, and would go as far to fuppor
the system, as any of its most zealous ad
locates. They have long enough submit
ted to this invidious treatment; their pa
tience is nearly exhaufled. They have hi
therto considered it as the ebullition o:
;>arty, and theinfolence of triumph. The;
lave seen themselves studiously exclude c
from any places of honor or emolument.
They have seen that the glorious boast o:
freemen, that " every man is eligiblei
not applicable to them ; and I believe theii
refentinent only waits for this principle o:
lisfranchifement to be as openly avowee
oy the Legislative, as it has been by the
Executive, to burst forth in complaint—
iiid perhaps more than complaint. Anc
ie allured, the awakened wrongs, and the
iftrve resentments of a hundred thoufanc
nen are not easily done away, or allevia
ted."
Mr. Freneau,
PLEASE to give the two following let
'ers a place in your paper, and you will o
blige
Your humble fervani,
JAMES BLANCHARD.
Phila. Jan. 4 1793-
S I R,
1 RECEIVED your's of November 15,
a few days flnce—Your information b>
Capt. Donald was true refpectiug both
your and Gen. Hull's circular letters.—
The Cincinnati, as a society, voted againfl
taking up the consideration, but had no
thing against the merits of the memorial oi
Gen. Hull, as officers. A number tif out
leading characters, from fortunate circum
ftau'ce*. kept their certificates, and perhaps
pyrchaled some in addition, and feel them
selves very comfortable. The officers oi
inferior ranks have mostly moved out oi
tile ftate,orby marriage or biifmef. got in
to tolerable circumstances. liisfatd 0111
members of Congress, at loaft two of
therri, viz. Boudinot and Dayton, have
made money by speculation—As for my
own part, thank God, I am able to live
by the sweat of my brow : almost all my
certificates I fold at about 3/4 for 29/. —
throwing in the interest. I thought from
the difpolition of the officers, at their last
meeting, that it would be difficult to ob
tain a meeting of one half on the fubjefl—
my business requiring my constant attenti
on, induced me to lay aside any thoughts
on the fubjeft—l have 3t the fame time no
doubt but about one half of our officers,
were they collected, would join with yotf
and the reft of our brethren, in asserting
claims founded in perfect: justice.
I am, Sir,
Y our obedient servant,
J. N. CUMMING.
New-Ark, Dec. 5, 1792,
Philadelphia, Dec. 19, 1792 -
Sir,
I RECEIVED yofor favor of the sth in
lant.and wrote you a few lines in answer ;
jut on a second reading, I beg leave to in
orm you, that I lament your senior off
ers declining to colne forward in behalf
>f those of inferior rank and the soldiery,
•vho have not ability to come forward for
hemfelves.
Notwithstanding those gentlemen have
>een so fortunate as to retain their own
.ertificates, and perhaps to make an addi
:ion. the remnant petitioned for would riot
itt'cct their pwrchafes, but do justice to their
>rivate stock.
With regard to your members, Captain
Dayton was not inCongrefs when thefund
ng law palled, and cart his bread upon the
A'aters with other speculators—But Mr.
3oudinot was in Congress, and having a
arge sum in fi&itious certificates, had an
jpportunity to fund a large sum of debt
"or afmall sum in specie.
The representatives from the Eaft3rn
States are endeavoring to persuade the a
sents that are here, that they will fee the
"allacy of tl.eir application; for the repre
entatlve oE the dates of Virginia and
Georgia do not mean, by advocating the
;aufe of the army, that they (hould receive
any payments, but to bring on a divi(ion t
n hopes to overthrow the government.
This would be an unpopular doctrine in
Virginia, as they have the fulleft confidence
n the justice and ability of their mem
bers.
The farmers in the southern states con
reive they have been swindled out of their
certificates by the New-England specu
lators.———This belief has been corro
borated on the information of a letter front
Mr. Amafa Learned, a member from Con
iie"cHcUt7 in tW beginning of th? I ast feffioft
to Mr. Jedidiah Leeds, of Richmond,, lo»
liciting him to be an agent in Virginia (ei*
:her on commiffions,or as a partner) for the
jurpofe of purchasing the deferred and
date debts ; adviling that those certificates
:ould bepurchafed at a low rate, and that
the Secretary of the Treasury was bringing
Forward a plan to make the whole debt at
5 per cent, stock, which was then felling at
>5 {hillings in the pound. But Mr. Leeds
loubted the propriety of the transaction,
ind declined the concern.
At present I can form no conje£ture of
the sequel—Col. Hamilton, notwithstand
ing his appointment in the continental ar
my, secured tohimfelf a placefrom danger,
and was indulged two years previous
Co the treaty of peace, to be absent or* his
private concerns, and in the advantages of
"peculation : since he lias been Secretary of
the Treasury, he is against any payments,
?xcept the depreciated paper which the ar
my have received, that netted them only one
fighth of the sum Stipulated in specie sos
their monthly wages : And the President,
notwithstanding his pathetic promises in
general orders, at New-Windsor (That a
country rescued by their arms from im
pending ruin, will never leave unpaid the
:lebtofgratitude)—is now (iient.
The writings for public information on
the funding system are nearly fii.i ied, and
1 part sre sent to tile counties of Berk
(hire and Hampfnire, in Meflachufctts.
I am, Sir, tikjlt r-efpectfully,
Your humble servant,
JAMES BLANCHARD.
To Col. J. N. Cumr/tif'ig—Newark
PRICE OF STOCKS.
National Bank Stock 36
N. American SS
Six per cents. 2 r
Deferred,
Three per cents. 12\fz
A r$W COPSES OF THE
TRANSACTIONS
Of the Society iriftituted in trie State of
New-Yorti, for the promotion of
AGRICULTURE, ARTS, and- MANU
FACTURES,
May be had at this Office.
[I'rice half a dollar.}
Jan. 5.THIRD DECLARATION of the
D uke of Brunswick,
[Read to the French National Contention
by M. Briflot.]
WHEN their majesties the Empe
ror and the King of Pruflia, in
confiding to me the command of the
armies which these two allied sovereigns
have caused to march into FVance, made
me the organ of their intentions, set forth
in the two declarations of the 25th and
27th of July 1792, their majesties were
far from conceiving the possibility of those
fcerres of horrcr, which preceded and
brought on the imprifohmcnt of their ma
jesties, the king and queen of France, and
the royal family. [?*&* gave rife to fomt
murmurs. ]
[M. Briflot here observed, that the on
ly answer he fliould make to this manifef
to, was that General Dumourier had ii
printed and dilbributed in his army ; the
good effe&s of which were found in the
increased courage and provoked indignati
on of tbe soldiers. He proceeded in the
reading of it.]
Such atrocious a£h, of which nations ir
the least degree civilized have not yel
(hewn an example, were nevertheless noi
the extreme bounds which the audacity o
certain factious men, who had contrived tt
render the people of Paris the blind in
ftruments of their will, had set to thei
guilty ambition.
The fuppreflion of all the king's func
tions, which had been reserved to him bj
that very constitution, which had been f<
long cried up as the vow of the whole na
tion, was thelafl crime of the national as
fembly, which has brought upon Franci
the two dreadful scourges of war and an
archy. [ Frejh murmurs J
[M. Briflot—l request silence, if it b<
only thro' pity.]
To perpetuate these evils, there re
mained but one Hep to be taken, whicl
could be dilated only by that mad spirit
the fatal fore-runner of the fail of empires
which has seized uponthofe men whodif
tinguilh themselves by the life of deputiei
Of the nation, chosen to confiim its right;
and happiness, upon the molt fubftantia
basis. The firft decree which they paflec
in their aflembly, was the abolition ef roy
alty in France ; and the senseless acclama
tion of a small number of individuals, o
whom even several were ttrangers, claim
ed the right of overthrowing the judgment
of fourteen generations, who have fillet
the fourteen centuries of the existence o:
the French monarchy.
This proceeding at which the enemiei
of France alone (hould rejoice, if they fup
■pofed that it could have a lading effect, 1:
in diredl opposition to the firm resolution
which their m.-jefties the emperor and the
king of Prufiia have taken, and frotr
which those two allied sovereigns will ne-
Ver depart, to restore to his molt Chrilliar
majefly, his liberty, fafety, and royal dig.
nity, or to wreak a just and lignal ven
geance on those who (hall dare any longei
to violate or infringe upon them.
For these reasons, the under-signed de
clares to the French nation in general, and
to each particular individual, that theii
majellies the emperor and the king ol
Pruflia, invariably attached to the princi
pie of not meddling in the interior go
vernment of France (a peal of laughter,
persist nevertheless to require, that his moll
Chrillian majefly, together with all the
royal family, (hall be immediately set al
liberty by those who presume to keef
them imprisoned. Their m<ijeflie3 also in
fill, that the royal dignity in France fhal
be, without delay, re eflabliflied in the
perlon of Louis the XVlth. and his fuc
ceflors :'(another and louder burjl of laugh■
ter) Anel furl her, that this royal dignity
shall be secured from any such affront ir
future.
If the French nation has not entirely
loft fight of its true interests, and if, free
in its resolutions, it is desirous of putting
a stop quickly to all the calamities of a
war, which exposes so many provinces tc
all the evils attendant upon the march oi
an army, it will not elelay an instant in de
claring its opinion in favor of the peremp
tory demands which I make in the name
of their majellies the emperor and the
king of Pruilia; and which, in cafe of a
refufal, will inevitably draw down upon
this kingdom, hitherto so flourilhing, new
and rooie terrible disasters.
The part which the French nation may
take, in consequence of this declaration,
will either extinguifti or perpetuate the
Fatal effects of a calamitous war, by remo
ving, in the suppression of royalty, the
means of rc-eftablifhing and keeping up
the ancient connexion between France and
the powers of Europe ; or may open the
way by negociation, to the restoration oi
peace, order, and tranquility, which those
who call themfelve3 the depositaries of the
hational will, are the mod interested tc
render as prompt as it Is necefiary to the
kingdom.
Charles F. Dule of Brunf'jjlck Lunenberg.
Head-Quarters, at Hans,
Sept. 28, 1792.
EXTRACT.
\_From the Federal Gazette.]
That the arms of republican France
" Ihould have been so soon, and so com.
pietely fuccefsful, is truly aftonilhing :
and while it affords a reasonable profpeil
of a happy iflue to the revolution, it mull
fill the mind of every tl.inking creature
with adoration for that Being, to whoir
alone such signal fuccelTes can be afcri
bed.
I hat the fuccefsof the French revolt
tion, is of infinite consequence to the peact
and happiness of the United States, nc
person who has fcen the combination ir
favor of monarchical principles amongfl
us will doubt. Had monarchy, or in othe
words, had tyranny prevailed over thi
Rights of Man in France, the advocate
for this exccrated system would have be
come bold and open. But thanks to ou
kinder liars, the reign of kings and tyrant:
is drawing to an end—and that of rcafor
and nature is rapidly advancing !
It is worthy of remark, that from th<
ever to be remembered 10th of August
l'rench affairs have changed their afpedl
having on that glorious day rid themfelve:
of the bauble of royalty, and totally de
prived their former tyrant of the power o
doing mifchief, from that moment the na
tion began to feel her power; from thai
moment they had confidence in their ge
nerals; their armies became disciplined
system took place ; plans were concerted
and unlike what had happened before ;
those plans have been executed.
The monarchy men amongst us, whicl
by the bye, amongst what are culled tin
higher circles, aie not a few, will now, it is
to be hoped, be allured that their fair)
profpe&s are at an end ; that the fuccef
of republican principles in France, has
determined the queltion against them.—
It is hoped that they will submit with 1
good grace to their disappointment, ant!
that they will be convinced, that howevei
" unfit the people are togovern themselves,'
they are resolved to make the attempt,
and to keep the thing at trial a few year:
longer.
i hat a very confiderablc majority of the
people of the United States think with me,
as to the importance of the late fuccelfe:
of out friends in France, is demonftratec
by the eagerness with which the informa>
is fought for, and the joy exprefTed from
every quarter—and with but a few excep.
tions from the "better kind"of people,maj
be said to be universal. Impressed wit!
this idea, 1 would beg leave to alk, if il
would not be right and proper for the ci
tizens of the United States, to express it
some public manner, their sentiments, upor
the retreat of the agent of the despots frorr
the French Republic, and the accom
panying fuccelTes of that magnanimous peo
pie. Perhaps from the etiquette of nationa!
policy, it may not be thought proper foi
:he government to order, or direst an)
lemonftrations of joy : But if the REAL
SOVEREIGNS of the United States
he MAJORITY OF THE PEOPLE
[hould think proper to celebrate so great
m event, I doubt not but it would be
highly acceptable to the friends of equality,
not only in France but all over the world,
and would be considered as a new a/Tur
ance that such are the principles of the
citizens of the United States of America. 1
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.
December 1792.
D. H, Bar. [Tber. JVinJ. \W t atb.
Tuesday, 15. ? 30. 25 37 Calm \Ct\udy.
2 3Q- 3 43 NN W.j Fair.
IVtdnefday, 26. 7 30. 5 28 N. Fmr.
2 . 3°- 35 4° N. do.
Tburjday, 27.7 30.45 21 NNW | fair.
- 3°' 4 H X.W. | 4
Friday, 28. 7 30.37 ,* N. VV. \Ftjir.
2 3°- 3 3i S.W. \Hazey.
Saturday, 29. 7 29. 9/ 20 | S.W. Fair.
1_ 2 9- 9 4 2 IWNWJ fy.
Sunday, 30. 7 29. 85 30 calm Cloudy.
2 2 9- 7 41 W. do.
Monday, 31. 7 29. 5 37 WSW dbudy.
2 ) 2 9' 55 47 N. do.
PRICE CURRENT.
A ctjpo Dollars. Cents.
oriJib, pot per ton to iccd
- ditto 137 c! /o 140 c!
Bacon, flitches per lb 8c
-(boulders do 7 c
Beef, Bolton per barrel to 8d
Country do fcd to 7 d
Beer, American in bottles
including bottles per dot. id 80c
ditto per barrel 5d 33c
Bees wax per lb 76c 28c
Brandy, Coniac per gal 83c 931
common do y sc 82c
Butter in kegs per lb 12c 13c
Cheese, Country per lb 8c 10c
Englifli , 9(
Chocolate ig c 2C(
Coal, per bushel aoc 22c
Codtifh per cwt 3d 50;
Coffee per lb 16c 17c
Copperas per cwt id 671
Cordage, American per c\vt 76 6;c 8c
Cotton pet- lb 26c 35c
I'lax per lb 131
Haxfeed per bush 90c id io(
Flour, Superfine per barrel <d r;c
Common
Bur-midlings, befl: 4d 501
Mea! Indian 3d io(
Rye, do 3 d 33,
C-ln, Holland per cafe 4d 331
per gallon Bcc 871
Ginseng, 2ct 24<
Gunpowder, Fine glazed per q c 41
Grain, Bai ley per bushel id id ?<
Befl: shelled per lb $ (
Buckwheat per bushel 4 c,
Indian corn 5 2,
Jersey, do 5? ,
Oat 3 , !(
R ye 601
Wheat ,d 3,
Hams per lb 10c in
Hemp, imported per ton i2od I4td 671
American per lb 4 c ji
Hides, raw per lb 9c 11<
Hops
Honey per lb 4(
Indigo, Carolina per lb id id 201
French id2ocidj3<
Iron, Bar per ton l{
Callings per cwt 3d 4?<
Nail-rods per ton nod 11 ic
P'2 24d 26d67(
Sheet '73d 331
Irons, ind ,33 3,,
Lard, hogs per lb 10c u<
Leather, foal per lb 14c i 7 c 2C(
Myrtle wax per lb ' I2<
VlolafTes per gallon j3c 57c
Vluftard, flower, in bot. per doz id 20<
— fecorid ouality, per doz S7l
Sails, 8d lod and 2cd per lb 101
3il, Linseed per gallon
—Olive 87.
per cafe 2 d s o<
Pepper per lb 38,
Pimento ,g c Jgi
Pitch per bbl id 73c 21
Porter per calk 5d 331
London per doz id 601
Amer. bot. inclu. id 4c id 6o<
Pork, Burlington, per bW iod 67c n<
Lower county , 0(
Carolina 9(
Rice per-cwt 2 d 88.
tluni, Antigua per gal
Barbadoes • g 7 .
Country, N.E. 65c 67.
Jamaica ,d 7 ,
Saltpetre per cwt i 4 d 33,
Salt, A Hum, per bush 44,
Cadiz
Lisbon 071
Liverpool 47 ,
Snake root per lb 20c 4 ,,
Snuff, per doz. bottles 4 d ;d 601
: — „ P erlb 33c 401
soap, Brown per 2b 6'
White g ;
starch perlb ,<
Sugar, Havannah, white, perlb i 7 c 18<
Brown ]IC I 2(
MnfcoVado per cwt 13d 15c
Lump per lb 241
Loaf, single refined, 25c
double ditto,
Tallow, refined, perlb n.
Far, Newjerfey 24 gal per bbl id
- Carolina, 32 gal id 33c id 67c
Tea,Hyion perlb 93c id 28c
j>ouchong soc
Boliea 33j; . 'J q
Tobacco, Jamesßiver, best 3d 60c }2c
Inferior ,d
r\l i 3 .
Old 4tl 67c
Rappahannock 3d
Coloured Maryland 5d 330%
Dark 2 d 40c
Long-leaf 2 d 40c
Eastern-shore ''d 2d 23c
Carolina, new 2d 7c 3d
t • °' d 33 c
Turpentine per bbl ,d 67c 21 l
Wine, Madeira, p. P. i 7 6d 2 ood 226 d 67c
I2 od i26d
■—Teneriffe per gal 63
Sherry 90c id 2^
THEperfon who borrowed aSILVER WATCH
last Augujr from a person near this city with
the letters M.T. (initiais of the owners name) ir
cypher, on the outside cafe, the number 4452, i<
dc/ired to return it to the printer of this paper.
Dr he will be advertised in a manner that will be
difgraceful to himfelf.
4t. 2av
Philadelphia if New-York
STAGES,
BY WAY OF
BURLINGTON, EORDENION, & SOUTH.
AMBQT—
W'F:, start from Samuel Ferry } oppo
fitc to Philadelphia, every Sunday and WeJ
nefday morning, during the winter season, and
arrive at South-Amboy on Monday, and Thursday
evenings—where a good boat will be ready to coa
vey Goods and Paflengers to New-York.
The Stage boats will leave New-York every
Monday and Thursday, so as to rtiPet the Stages
from Philadelphia at Amboy, to proceed for Phi*,
next day. All Baggage belonging to
palTengersto be at their own risque.
All Goods forwarded by the Stages on bill, t«
be under the particular care of the Proprietors of
the Stages j but not warranted against robbery or
damage—And all entering, clearing and permits,
to paid by the owners of goods.
Price of a pafiage from Cooper's f»rry to New-
York ' - - - £o. ii. 9 .
acolb. of Goods, to pay the price of a pa/Tage.
All Way paffi-ngers, 3d per milt.
AMOS HUTCHIN, and ? f*6r iJurlt/ijp-
NICHOLAS SCHENCK, £ ton line.
VAN FMBURGH Sc M'KEAN, 7 For Borden
md DAVID WILLIAMSON, J ton line. J
December 24, 1792. [jaw.«w.
notice.
LL persons having demands against the estate
of Gvil/rry Var.Heren, late of Bucks County,
deceas'd, are requeued to exhibrt their accounts
properly authenticated, in order for fettlelftent—-
And those who are indebted to said estate to make
immediate payment, to
JOHN HOUGH, Adtniniftrator.
Bucks County, Dec. 28, 1752. 4 t.iaw
WANTS EMPLOYMENT,
Either in a Dry*good or Grocery flore
A young man that is acquainted with both;
and can be well recommend«d*"-
Enquire of the Printer.
CHARLES BITTERS,
At?. 120, South Market, near Fourth-fir eel,
Has received from New-York, and ma
nufactured by Lot Merhd,
4. ar £ e an d general afi'ortment of
muffs and Tippets, Trimmings
and Edgings,
oreat Coats, Caps, Mitts and Gloves lined
with Fur, which he will fell,
Wholcfale and Retail,
at the lowest prices.
Nov-, s 4 . 2 awtf
Scon iv ill be pub'i/hed
THE SYSTEM Of
UfcJ by Mr. Lloyd, in taking dcKun tic Debates a/
Ccngrefi j—
A S* STEM so e»fy, that any m»n, of ordin«-
ry capacity, may clearly comprehend it m
half an hour, and soon praflict it, ia its fulleft
;xtent, without any further inftru£tion, than what
will be convevcd in a few pages,—the whole ART
being comprised in eighteen simple cbartSen, with
out any of those perplexing, arbitrary marks, with
which the learners of other systems are obliged to
burden their memory, and emkarrafs their prac.
tice.
Price, to Sobfcribers, Ore Dollar :—to Non-
Subscribers, a Dollar and h2lf»
Subscriptions received by Mcflrs. Rice. Book,
fellers, Marker-ttreet, and by
J OHM CAREY, No. 16, Paar.ftreet,
(C?* Half a Dollar to be paid at the time of
fubferibing.
Bank Of the IJwited States.
Philadelphia, tiov. 20th. 1792.
THE stockholders of the bank of the
United States are hereby informed,
:hat according to the statute of incorpora
::on, a general election for twenty-five Di
•eftors will be held at the bank of the
United States, in the city of Philadelphia,
in Monday the seventh day of January
next, at ten o'clock in the forenoon.
And pursuant to the eleventh lection of
:lie bye-laws the stockholders of the said
xink are hereby notified to aflemble in ge
neral meeting,, at the fame place, 011
1 hurfday the eighth day of January next,
it five o'clock in the evening.
By order of the Prefidentand Dire&ors..
JOHN KEAN, Calhier.
J
For file, at the printing office, a few copies
of thefirfl volume of the National Gazette-
PR. IHTED B Y
CHI LD S and SWAINE,
AT THEIR OFFICE NOl 209, HICH-STRItP
NEAR FIFTH-STHIST,
fHJtADILfHIAt