jf i f ) i'i f§f H
By J'. FRE N R AU : (at No. rop, Market Street) Publijhcd Wednesdays and Saturdays, [Three Dollars per annum.]
Numb. 85 of Vol. ll.] WEDNESDAY, Auguil 21, 1793.
For the NATION \L GAZETTE.
Mr. F.ieneAu,
''pHKK.: : are in you'- gazette, of the 27th
of |uly two petes which •agin
to fix the attention of your readers ; thy
Ji;it is the proclam itioii of S »'»ti»>»nax and
Folverel, the civil commiilioners ot Sr.
]11 ingo, by which they duel ire. that
4 * the wil! of the French republic, andtn.it
o.'iis delegates, .3 to give liberty 10 all the
r 'ij/'o warriors, w 10 will fiy,lit for [he re
|> ibic, under tad oders of the c- r J<lc >- nnif-
Ji inert the feco id is that so perfHionffy
p ibinned, u.uier the narpe ot the Frencn
refugee'. from Cape-Francois, bv which
they themselves seem to decree t ie trium
jj ;ai crown to their eJtterminutors, b\
throwin/. upon the unfortunate Galbaud,
ail the bfome and atrocity of that inelau
clioly event. Such fcandilous machinati
« ys are no new thing i 1 the French revo
) ition ; and ihofe wno think to get fucii
j ,*eat adv mtage from chem. believe, u<f
i ty funpofe, tn »t they are lpegking only
t . t tnat.es, who have rej cited every feitti
ji ?nt of hum-mity, or to a ttupid and a
b.ifed people, witn whom all crimes are
v . tue.H. Let iu analyse, However, thefc
t •» piece* vviili the lights ot good fen fe a -
)( te ; let irs examine Vn few words, what
ri 4lly inigat have been the wiil of the re
p ibiic.
It is fnperfluou" here to invefligate the
p.biic or private rights of nations, to learn
chat the French people, in ivneu/ing thfi
fu ia! compatl, had no ot er ' iglit over the
d Ferent part* of the aft* >ciation. than that,
v iich was g ve4 to them, by their new a
g dement. They ha % 0 themselves fel
b »u»i<U to all lawful authority in their tie
c irat on of the rights of men in foaefy.
N'j nation, however powerful, has more
r ;hC to an unlimited authority, than an
individual ; and it can no more act tyran
n cally with impunity. Thi tyranny would
b To much the more dreadful in that, like
t > the hundred headed hydra, it would not
e/en leave a hooe of its extm&ion, with
tie fall of the tyrant's head. But the
Trench republic, which corre&ec! the firfl
declaration of the r ignis of men, only to ex
plain the sacred principles in a Hricter feufe,
did then acknowledge, that her power anc
will could not, legally, be further extend
ed.
What now is the confeqtience ? either
that the French republic ought to ndmil
t le coionifts under the fame guaranty oi
persons and property, prom fed and gnar
s ityed to ail the members of the new a (lo
cation; or • that it had no right to d f
p >fe of their property without their con
font, and without previously making their
a fatisfattory indemnity or, in fine, il
h id no ether power, than that ofexclu
dng them from tiie new allbciatiou. A
more powerful consequence, which we
0 nght to ascribe to these principles, is, thai
their violation, in refpe& of the Frencl
V/eft-Indies, has no less broken all the re
ciprocal rights and duties of the firit alio
ciatio 1 , k under which they took their rife,
than tli* fame abuses and outrages, 011 th<
fi.le of England, towards the United State:
of North Ai erica, has juffcly effected thei;
1 {dependency. Thus, that ridiculous ac
c ifation, so often, and so profufely throw 1
< it against the unfortunate''French colo
l ilts, with the view of robb-ng them will
i npunity, is only an additional outrage tc
ail the others of their oppreflors ; anc
I ley would have been julkiti.ible in pro
claiming their indcpendency, if they had
liail the power of effecting it. We do no
fear then, nor scruple to aflerr, that if fuel
fce the will of the republic, 4 to give liberty
to our (laves, as has been afierted by thofn
p.efum'mg delegates, it exercises only tn<
r;ghc of robbers, I mean that of force." Ii
f ict, have tiiey not already violated .nil tht
rights of civil society, in feuding to 11s
II '.der the title of civil commiflioners, no
only fiery despots, * but blood-thirfly taj
gatherers, who levy their extortions upoi
us, with arms in their hands, and goven
i' > according to their fierce and favagt
wills?' What! could it poffib'y be the wil
of the French republic and its delegates
that more than an hundred thousand fanii
lies dispersed throughout the islands, Oiouic
be exterminated by sword and tiie, anc
driven from that unhappy country, or
compelled, ihwuid they remain, to prolong
an exiOence, itill more wretched ! we ma>
veil exclaim with a corempoi ary writer,
4 what monstrous despotism has hrd such
wretched effects I O ! Rome, how do I de
test thee !' Let our republic once more
f lory in having tor its founders the molt
ai dent lover* 01 humanity! b^vjlcitt
Ravnal, wben thou didfl prophecy to the
wu»te< of tile Welt Indies, tlif dreadiul
'•'enifjnte of the negroes, thou did I nol
cxpeit mat it would he excired by whites,
with fouls blacker and mi.re exasperated
than thole or the wretches whom they pro
fefs to reve'. -e. !
Hut I nid ilii- refledinn brings me back
to thr fecoprl piece I mentiwned above) is
it portible to conceive, that the furious and
wild proceedings of tlu-fj K.ench deiroin
of deftrtfttioH. (liould si d aptiioiiiU even
'ii this comment ? Would they atteinpr to
cultivate here the maclii .. : li.. i maxim,
tiiat, t(ie arbitrary wills of i dividual*. in
si ne cases, uiay fuppiyibc pl.ce ofexiitin,;
polirive 11'.v ! and il this maxim has al
r ady taken so deep root in France, wh;.t
will _h-: wretched iihabiut Is ofth.it cuun
"i y have (rained by their b jailed republican
c inditir ion ? forme, lv il ives to a ki'.g.
i:d .it pr felt flavis to a fell ite, a thou
sand times more despotic. would not this;
be their fid horoscope ? J n effeel, t!*e
nie;;ns which are practiced to !• cure the
iiii|inniiy of the connnilfioners,
ail ; Polv. rel, fufficient'y teltify, (liat tilcy
have only acted from the iilltruciions of
tholV, w i<> un-mirnin themfei.es to be
p.iiielled of the fate of tiie republic, dic
tate their own wills for hers. These in
llruetions. which proceedeil frovn 0 me
chief.*, eafv to be known, without n>m
i"g them, llill teflify that the "will'
us this powerful cabai, is to be refpefted
as the will of the nation. We have n >
reason to doubt then but the fame hand,
which directs here, all tne official accounts
which tend to lelfen the horror of that
coirfprracy. which will co(V France its belt
and Nrjr.elt poll'elfion , in the Weft-Indies,
we cannot doubt, I fay, but this hand is en
gaged in this abominable my.lerv ; it is this
hand, which has written the second piece,
which cli lrges the general Gaibaud, with
hiving "een thcauthor of the ruin of Cape-
F raicoit.
We fee, in tb» : r proclam itiort, the com
mifiioners, Santhonax and Polverel, put
ri ig very ridiculously, and when we con
l ie- them as republicans, we may add
very aukwardly. rheir o vn v. til on a level
a'iih that ofthe republic. Their
tines (till more, he puts it above; but with
out examining if general Gaibaud had
been well or iil appointed, where is the
other decree which con'tirutes the tom
niifßouers. Santhonax and Polverel. judges
of the proceedings of the executive
:onncil of the republic ? Where are
are their powers for depoflng this ge
lerai, lent to infpefl their own ton-
Jndt? Cromwell laid, that he preferred
the proteclorlhip to royalty, because, said
lie, the Engiifh know w ell the extent of a
lei ig s authority, but not that of a proteft
jr. When wili the French u iderftand tlie
rounds ol the authority of a civil com*
miliioner ? on a fuppohtion that the rival
hip between general Gaibaud and the
ommiffioners, Santhonax and Polverel, in
?xerci(ing their refpeftive functions. has
>een the principal cause ofthe cataltiop.,e
it Cape- Francois, juflice preferred to the
writer ofthe above piece, the duty to con
ider. that tliofe last were as culpable. as
he former. But his manifeft partialitv
nakes him to reject all other accounts of
his melancholy diltrefs, which come out in
unification of general Gaibaud, who was
lot able to suborn witneiles in his favour.
>r purchase a venal and corrupt account of
:hefe m '.Iters ; and hence it reltrts. • firft.
:hat it was the mulattoes who provoked
:he sailors by tlieir outrages ; and fecond
y, that it was the refufal of the coinmifli
>ners, Santhonax and Polverel, to lilten to
he remonttrance ofthe French admiral on
:his fubjeft, which occa float d the dreadful
u'liou, the consequence of which has been
the definition of that city In fine, it
mofr certainly was thecommifliouers, San
thonax and Polverel, who called to rhe'r
iliiltance the twenty five thouland black
brigands,' by whose means this opulent
city has been burned, and who obtained
from the commilfioners their liberty, as a
reward of these meritqrious services.' Ah I
nave Frenchmen ever been fnbjedted to
such atrocious extortions ; have tneir cities
■ver been plundered and burnt in so bar
barous a manner, under the reign of Louis
the XVI th, beheaded as the last tyrant of
France, as they have lately been, under
che jurisdiction and iw the name of the re
public ! But let us not calumniate the
French republic in admitting such to have
neen its w ill ; tor where is tie decree in
which this \\ ill is declared ? If il does not
exist, it is altogether the w ill ©f the com-
Miffivmr, Santlicnax awlJPvlyftei, ami ut
the infernal factum, which they serve.
The national convention will befufHciently
blameabie in having delegated an abl'urd
diJ-tatorlliip to such ha.ids.
A REFUGEE.
Philadelphia, Aug. 6, 1793.
For the National Gazette.
To Mr. E ,
" On the wings f mighty winds" republl
can-i m ■' ride /"
Six,
AS 1 underftmid you are making prepa
'* r irons lor your 46 h serial flight, tf
rue te.. it.al regions, and having aw irrefift
lhie d. lire to contribute to the utntoO ii
ny iM.wer towards tbeliiccefs of your tau
ufcle a id (to us) novel expedition ; 1 fenc
. ouincio;. d a letter, which I beg yoli wil
ielnei vvitit your osvn hand,—it may bt
it ast to you.
As I Imvebeeu an aflronomer, art astro
ger,-and a;i aim mac-maker, lor theft
orty years pall, n.y correipondence wit!
:;id Kin; wledge of" the world above, art
re.nle .neatly very great; as hath oftei'
ieen .. knoVflt dgrrf l»y lunft ol the bri;'hu(l
uiuintu ieion earth. and 1:1 a mort par'i
ular ijianrrci", by tliat prince ol' aftrono
nets Mr. R 1 himfelf.
I vvnl there!ore take the liberty of giv
•ig you a few (triple direfliohs : At the
>cgi:>:n :ig ol your diurnalevolation, after
.ou have palled li.e perigeum, and pro
eedtug through the different windings til
he zudiae-cirrle, be cautieusof approach
ug too near Scorpio.
Hy a i means avoid the Sun's H rtt, »s ir<
'eat will ue too vehrmeac, and may l'turcli
our ftiken tabernacle.
1 aiij gre <t care or the Dragon's tnil ,
iery a id po.for.ou3 eiiljvia iflue from U
1 ell ?>lai s, our go d and potent any, ti
lifplay his ting and hurl his thunder bolt
j.. t.ie heads ol the combined despots; ,el
li'ii there's aimolt an universal combina
ion ot the foils of gun.powder in this ter
aqueous globe, ag .inlt France and liber
y; tell hun tiiat in spite of them, Francs
•vill (till iiold up her heal and be trinni
jhailt ! and tell bim the tremendous and
mdoubtable hero! the Brvnsw ickean
Quixote, is difcomfirted and lunk l.kc
i lnllen (lar, to rile 110 more !
Avoid Venus, flie is a coaxing fiat, and
fxceedingly fond of lilk petticoats. Creel
lie Planets, faliue tlie Moon in your paf
age, and enquire of lier, what mean thoft
pots on her dill: ?
Whether they be beauty spots, silver
nines, w, ter, earth, vulcanos, or the bin
cen fragments of on old solitary, decayed
h orld i
Whether !he be a maid ? (if so, (lie mud
ie a very old one indeed, and I'll have 110
:liing to do with her) if not,
Whether the Man in the Moon, (as i?
vulgarly expressed) be her hlilbund i if not
Whether (lie be a widow ? if so, and Ihe
:ia:h any inclination to ei ter into a conju
gal (late, I'm her man : and the next trif.
7011 take, 1 will accompany you, and 11c
.lou! t, v. hen f);e beholds
phiz, we (hall instantly agree upon a match,
to ours ai d the worlds mutual advantage;
wr,as I am at lealt 5376 years younger thar
he ; I have the vanity to think, I can adc
ullre to her charms, and double the milli
ner of ft.jr.s in the firmament.
If yon fee Enoch* Elias, Moses, Lazarus,
VlahOmet, Deftartes, Galileo, John Clare'
I"oin Jacobs, Tom Godfrey, or Sir Ifaat
Newton, (for they were all balloon men,
iray present my compliments to them,. nc
,) they have any thing to communicate it
.he almanac-way, 1 liiali be imnitciy o
oliged.
Again, when yon have ascended as higl
is Caffiopoea, and mounted the Bear's-tail
endeavour to find the opening of the Ca
iaxy, (the entrance into the third heavei
through which tliey fay St. Paul p.,fled!
for, as that Milky-way ii compc fed of ai
innumei able number of half-Ooru liars,
like fhad-r&es in embryo) that touch eaci
other, there willbeno pofli'oiiity ofptiCi,..
through, nrilefs through hat aperture'
You need not ascend so high as the Geoi
gium Sitlus, that being a royal emigratu
itar, and you a French cit zen and re >11 •
lican, perhaps you may quarrel, and 01' ie o
both of you be decapitated, or a-la-lan
terned.
Neither soar so high as Saturn, as he will
receive you but cooi.y, (it at all) he'll net
so much as otter you a drink ol whiffcev
he's a dull, leaden headed, melancholy!
phlegmatic old flubberdejjuliion. and t>
iilii\ aiuiotiat.
[Tota] Numb. 189]
Beware, above all, of running foul of the
star Wormwood, as mentioned in the bonk
of Revelations $ 'tis a bitter itar, and you
ni?v rut it.
bnould you conftniihed to tdk£ up
your lodgings and, aoiiie a night, or lb, and
V otitis And you can't agree, on moderate?
terms, (as she v\ i 1 i expert, doubtless, an
extravagant price for her favours)—-fhntl
her * and try to hnd out jolly old Bac
clius's quai ,ers, who, Til warrant, will
r- ce vr y< a with joy and hofpitn'iry, !rnr!
you one ot his molt favourite nymphs, ca
roqze with von the whole night, and fwini
iii nectar and ambrosia.
bhouid you find your balloon likely to be
ex.iauiteft ol dephlogiftic ited air, apply to
Boreas, who will fupp y you at firrt * oft,
it his wind (hop ami-original ware-house,
at the fig.l of the Bellows, somewhere a
bot c the nor h, or north-weft corner.
Now, as I am luil as well acquainted
with St. ? aui with St. Patrick*
the former, on the receipt of tlie above
mentioned letter, will ro doubt furnifh
you Should there be occt,(iou) with his old
><et, as he hath long since left off catchieg
riih, to wrap ruund your balloon to fct lire
it fro 111 accidents, and Miouid a ilorm a rife,
° «> ill ?!fo opn *1 Me rho irr ~ou.
J s ut liiouid you fail in tiiis, as his net is
>robably, by tins time, worn out or IoU,
14col> will Jend you his ladder, if it be not
aroken, and fUould that be the cafe, you
null men cry aloud for father Abraham*
ivho will take yon m b : <? benevolent bo
om, balloon and all, ai.d wait you fa-e to
Joke's fplei did palace*
Wishing yon an agreeable ascent. and
inxioufly waiting your fate reruin, I am,
Hi, your moit obedient unknown friend*
'•"d humble fe?"*'*n f.
Ail old ALMANaC-MAKER.
P- S. Pray enquire of Sir Ifnac. what
iua, beton e vi [fi t Comet, we fd long ex
dnd whof? ?nnfaranc?, as Me cal
culated from his tables and logarithms,
would be in the year *789 ?
We alh onomers have been
•nt in our chronology, and are laughed at
and caiied loggerheads by every one. )
lin terribly afraid it will hurt the sale of
my next year's ainianacs—do id me know
low it i*.
Whether there has not been some unac
countable revolution, or wars in .ne pla
netary fyletn i
W lietlier Comets ever sleep, or £et tir
?d ? or*
Whether lie has not in his rapid course.
left the beaten track, and perambulated
through unknown worlds and dreary re
gions , (hitherto unexpiortd, nor even
contemplated Uy Jupiter himl'eif) loft him
relf, or been flopped in his career, by some
llrange, unknown, uncorht, umr.eiho
rlized, Uncreated body, far
m.ghtier than hm-ifelf, and in a dreadful
ronH.ct, have been tranfmu:ateii, I\\avow
ed up, or cruihtd to inviiibility !
A. O. A. M.
Philadelphia, Aug. 16, 1795.
To the EDITOR of tke NATIONAL
G :\ZETI£.
S I R,
W H L a " tHr r::Trr ? n e /!: ' fr - c nr'fiiner
ot 1- ranee tor faying he would appeal
to the people? I 5 the President a Ui.te
iraui charaiter, that an appeal from his
decilinns mnd be contidered criminal : or
are t te people in a (tate ot monartliii a! de
gr;: .atiorij that to talk of cpnfiiltii c them
be conlidered as great an litem e as if
we \vere under a dominion equal t. that nf
the old monarchy of Frame? What i* the'
legtflature of the Union but the peopi k
tiiCoigreJi tumbled, a , dis it already an
onence 10 appeal to ilieiu in cafe ol a con
ceived wrong by the President ? Should
opinions of tills fort obtain already in our
infant government, dre.rv indeed has be
come our profit it of liberty—lf this is a
governinent ol the people and not of ir
il'vidnal will, tliey oupht to be confultcd,
Uay they, and they alone, ought to deter
mine every momentous qoeltion j and en
qtiellion tt'hich refpeflcd their tranquility,
no helitation ought ro be discovered in ta
king their opinions. The backwardiiffs
which has been difeov°red incor.fnltliitf rl:e
reople ia their rcpri'fentatives, lias opened
' large Held of conjetiure j I hive heard
fever al members of Com res ex'jrcf: irucli
i urprize at it. and indeed they were totalis
ata lofstd comprehend its mrsninj
It there is a difference of opinion be
tween the executive an.' th • ■••ii "'Vr of
rr ince on the treaty, wiio to oeter
ulne tliu wfieicuce uut Uic jkvjik > xji?executive, from its di fiance from tlie peo
ple, can speak no opinion but its own, and
That immediately within its tortex ; but as
Congrefsemmatedirectiy Bom the people,
they would speak .the sentiments which
ought and will govern, the sentiments of
the lbvereign, the people of the
United States.—"l'he present differ
ence, if it fliould be true, may lead to an
unhappy ifliie, and may be the means of
p.',uij;;ing this country into a war with
France ; fhoulcl this be the cafe, there can
lie no doubt, that had the people been con
-I'Tsitc-d this would have been averted ; fc
fn favourably are they elifpofed towards
France, that 1/iey would have admitted the
mod 1 ibcr.i 1 construction of the treaty—
x ranee wifr.es the neutrality of the United
Urates, but Ihe willies them to behave with
lion or and fulfil their engagements with
her, and this maybe done without becom
ing a party in the war.
What the fpecific embarraSTments arc
v.'hich have been tlirowH in the way of the
minister, I am not informed, but th re i;
too much reason to believe that some of
our executive gentry have been exercifinp
their abilities for cavil, and that he is ag-
} r .rieved, or he would cot sis he has done
it) havefpoken of an appeal to the repre-
Jcntatives Bhemfelves ; for to suppose lie
meant an appi al to the aggregate body ol
the people from Ne.w-Hamplbire to Geor
gia, is too great an absurdity to require
■refutation.
But white we raise our voices here a
gaiiilt tile minister of France, lor his jufi
veneration for the people, we seem to num
ber over tile conduit of our minister ir
France. — Not content with speaking. ht
Jias acted, and was deeply concerned wit!
the king in forming a constitution foi
France, previously to his decapitation, ii
which an attempt was made to bring tlx
nation back nearly to her original despot
ism ■! This intermeddling in the affairs o:
France by our minister; this criminal at
tempt to ehflave a people has not excitee
that jult revenge which it merited: neithei
lias our government shown any disappro
bation ot the thing, or they would have re
called a man from an embalfy v\ ho is bettei
calculated to be the ambiflador of tin
grand Signior than the representative of i
tree people. We crouch to Great-Britaii
but we leem disposed to ta'.taiize France
that generous and gallant nation who gav<
us a political exigence —We talk of oui
incapacity to go to war againlt Great-
Britain for the reiterated insults and inju
ries we have received from her, but we ail
as if a war with France was desirable
■Abfnrdities thicken upon us, and I iluicl
fear that the flud/ed /ecrecy which obtain:
in our gcvernment,has partial and not pub
lie good for its object ; for where the peo
ple are fapreme they ought not to be kep
in ignorance refpefting their dearest con
cerns, any more than a (ervant fliould be at
liberty to veil his tranfaftions from hi:
mailer—The tranfaitions of the Divan are
not more impenetrable than the transac
tions of our executive ; for it appears tt
be a tenet that the people have no right tc
be informed, and that it would be lefieniwj
the dignity of government to explain it:
actions to them—This is republicanifir
modernized with a witness, when the fei -
vant (hall be greater than his matter. anc
the creature greater than tile creator
From the prevalence of futh republi
<canifm may Heaven defend us!
-Aug. 17th, 1793-. JUBA.
■An EJfay read in a Literary Society in ihh
city, Aug. 15, by one of the members.
JT must afford lingular fatisfaftion to the
1 friends of freedom, to contemplate the
havoc, which, Since the American revolu
tion, been made amonglt those nume
rous cuftoiu: and prejudices which fwayeel
the sceptre over our aristocratic and op
piciieei ancestors. It is, however, an equal
cause of regret, that so many opinions,
tifages, and laws, Still exiSt in enir country
which can be j unified only by the circnm
fcrihed reasonings of a Burke, and which,
if they are fuffered to remain unhandled]
may gather increasing Strength', and ulti
mately open the Unices for an inlet of poli
tical lierelies, that may inundate our coun
try, and involve our citizens in ruin.
111 a republican government, it is the in
terest and duty of each individual to paf<
ftriftures upon any proceedings which he
may deem inconsistent with the public
weal, as well as to propose filch measure;
as he may think conducive to the general
Welfare.
Convinced of the truth of the preceding
observations, any attempts to combat prin
ciples which may sow the feeds of arifto
cracv, but more particularly endeavours
to display the alluring, but venomous rep
tile that affords nutriment to monarchy,
limit be confielered as laudable in them-
and worthy the attention of the
candid republican, who, neverthelcfs, is
Still entitled to the equal right of being in
dulged in the defence ot a contrary princi
ple. 'When the sentiments of the people
are the laws of the land, it is of the highell
importance that those opinions, which em
brace the welfare of thousands, Should be
the result of mature and rational delibera
tion. What could more contribute to
produce this defideratiim, than the free
gublicatioii of sentiments, however eccen-
trie they may lo f. om the lsngtiage cf tVe !
citizens in general ;* What objeit could
"lore advance this purpose, than the public
difcnflion ofqueltions, in whole detritions
are involved the fate of the unalienable
rights of freemen ?
i am fenlible that controrerfies of this
nature, havefoinetinies been attended with
no benfrficial effects, and. when neld out
to the public through tlie medium of a
'ew(paper, have, by a refufal of publica
tion, been timely {topped in a career which
would have no better tendency than tc
involve the parties in <ii(grace : this ha;
been, when personal resentment gets the
oetter of a zeal lor the public good. To;;
candid mind, however, this can be no dil
paragement to the principles which r ad
vocate. So long only, as arguments art
conducted *\ nil cool deliberation, difpaf
lionate reafoiiing, and republican modera
tion, are they worthy the attention of tlie
citizens. For my own parr, whenever;'
writer deviates from his profefled subject
>nd launches forth into 3 licencious (trail
of malevolence, personal calumny, an<
abuse, I immediately accede to the opi
iiion, that he either lacks ability to defend
or if convinced of the injufl ice of the cauft
lie ati: mpted to espouse. But when well
intentioned periixns (tep forward and vin
dicate opinions, however contrary If) th■
vulgar prejudice they may be, they are (til
entitled to a (hare ol' the candour am!
clteemof their fellow citizens, and any in
fringement ofthe exercise of fueh a light
lliould be considered as a direct attack upot
the liberties ofthe people.
Hut, while on the one hand the freedotr
of speech and opinion ihould be defended
nn the other, we fhauld guard against re
lapsing into licentioufuefs. This, by til;
friends to mankind, is what i. equally ti
be abhorred with a degeneiacy into ai ilto
cracy. Wlic-n the lives and properties o
ihe inhabitants are subject to the tyranni
of a licentious mob, their fury is more t<
be dreaded than the discriminate vengeann
of an eastern monarch.
it is however natural, tint a people
who have experienced ail the horrors ol
defputifm, Ihould, upon a Hidden clianpt
111 their situation, be so fafcinated vvitl
the new and plealing objects that are pre
lented to their view, as to (tide into the
o her extreme. It has even been qnellion
cd bv fume, whether it is not abfolutclj
necefiary for the preservation of the com
munity. When the people at large have
faded of the sweets, nay, the lieentioufnd:
of liberty, no consideration will force-their
to forfake its cause, till it is leaned on i
jafis fufficiently permanent. When, ii
times of exigency, the populace have af
umed the right ofdeftroying traitors,, few
i-ive efcapcd the vigilance of the public
;ye. Wfien peace, however, ftiall havt
eltored tranquility to a country, which
thti; in some meal'ure experiences the evih
jf anarchy, experience will soon teacl
tiiem tiie necedity of subordination to tilt
foice of the people legally and pr»perl)
taken.
These reflections have ari/en, chiefiv.
from a conlideratioii of the comparative
inference between the revolutions of A
merica and France-. After conliderabh
•eflection, I am led to believe, that tile
telebraud work of Jonathan Swift, enti
tled the " '1 ale of a Tub," might, in ma
ty rel'petts, serve for nearly as good at
allegorical delcription of these two memo
table incidents of the present age, as foi
the diflention from poperty for which ii
was intended —
Martin, a deliberating, felf-co-rceitc
fop, and naturally attached to pageantry,
when anathematized by Peter, who hat
excluded him from the privilege of drink
ng wine, after having rid himfelf of hi
m other's tyranny, proceeds with flow ane
tautious steps to dived himfelf of thoff
trappings which had heea added to hn
daul coat. His timid spirit forces liim tc
jroceed with such caution, that when he
tompletes his bufmefs there Hill reinair
mnierou! fripperies, fineries, and infignic
3f fuperioritv. of which he is afraid to de
prive his veftnient, left it lliould spoil it;
ippearance.
Jack, on the contrary, of a quick and
"urious temper, enraged at the insults am
>pprellion which he had experienced, refo
utely determines, without a moment 1 -
lelay, to rid himfelf of every veltige o(
lis former gaudinefs. Here flies' one
thing, there another, as his pafiion directs
aim, till at length, tearing with violence
the lace from his coat, he rave the gar
ment likewise a conliderable rent.—
The refolute,determined, and impetu
ous tteps which the French have taken to
thvelt theaifelves of every remnant of arif
cocracy, may perhaps have impelled them
to make a temporary trespass on the other
lide of reason, yet they are fufficient to in
sure them fiiccefs in the cause in which
they are engaged ; and, when peace Dial I
have crowned the martial toils of the citi
zens with victory, they will have fufiicient
leisure to mend the seam which they may
have ripped asunder.
To America, it (till remains ro lay aside
* "In every political dilquilition that
comes before the public (fays Mr. Erfldne)
it is 110 matter whether tile parties that
handle the subject reason right or wrsng
it is fnfficient that they do reajon, and
Truth Iprings from the collision."
iiiany of I' oft which, so di
"cerning minds, serve as ail enfign"-of ot:r
former degradation. At some future )>e
rioelit rniij have beep in vainior sis to h.-vt
lopped off the branches', for, while tbe
root ;iiid body remain, it nnift gradually,
though perhaps inleufibly, iiicreale, till it
.it length spread iorth into the 7:njv
oak of royalty', under whose knoLty bought
we have (o recently reclined.
Numerous are the opinions cf those
who pry into the arcana of politics, refpec! -
ing the exiflence of tyranny. Vaiious art
tie eanirs to which they attribute its floti
riflfmg fimation. L ncertain as we may be
nsto itsbriprt, by recurrence to teftimdin
and experience, eftablithed by the univer
lal hill ory of every age and nation In whicl
it has prevailed, I think, we may by thi:
lime discriminate the fotirce of its continu
ance. May we net julMy ascribe it to trie
advantage which has been taken by ii;t
artful and designing in the times of igno
rance and barbarity, over the fuperflinou:
and credulous minds of those imc-nligtyen
ed foil: of antiquity. Prone by nature tc
believe in a sovereign arhiter of the uni
veri'e,: ny thing u hich was r.nd to be damp
ed witii tile faiitlion of a deity, was swal
lowed <• •th the utmost avieiity. Thus the
deceitful poison was prepared, which }ia•
ever since been the bane of mankind—thti
principles degrading to the human specie:
have been propagated—thus have leiui
ments repugnant to reai'on g dned afcen
tlencyover the minds of men—and thu;
have opinions calculated to mar the peace
as society, taken such deep root into 0111
breads, that it feenis to iiave penetratei
aor very nature. The decisive tellimonj
»f fa£ls corroborates my afi'ertibn, and
provided we juefge dellitute of prejudice
we must pronounce every fyficm ol fan a
ti ciftn, which has prevailed in the world
to < ontain sentiments which countenance
tiAirpation. Theforceof prejudice, aid
ed by time, is too powerful to be refiflet
by reason in a more uncivilized f ..te o
mankind. Universal cufloni foot) acquire:
the more atigidl form of a leco dary prin
ciple of our conrtitntion, and quickly gain;
in ascendency over the thoughts and ac
tions of men, which would aimod be incre
dible, were it not for the iiumerons in
taj ice's that might be adduced to prove it.
The aid which time affords to the belief oi
1 Itory, is too weli -:- i,-a <o need any ob
ervations upon that fubjeft : it is' not.
herefore, much cause of admiration, that
lumbers fhoulci (till remain attached to
:hofe irrational Creeds which have been
mpofed on their ancestors. To purify
:heir minds from th;> ftlthv pol!t;:torT,
ivould require more indefatigable laboni
Vom an Hercules, than to cieanfe tiie
Augean liable. Far be it from me to make
in attempt of that nature, but I cannot
forbear hinting at the political tendency oi
rhofe opinions winch are religtouliy im
aibed.
Happy would it have been for mankind
f, oil the formation of authoritative tenets
•he properties and worlhipof a Deity hao
only been inculcated. But the pontica
>pinionswhich are everywhere interfperfi i
throughout the religious, have been the
foundation of inconceivable hloodflied
ind of molt of those contentions, which,
tor tliefe eighteen centuries havedifgracec
Europe. .So long as men are of different
opinions, (and that will always be the
cafe) that a mail who implicitly beiieves !i
to be his duty to "honour the king," t.
bejubjeti to rulers," and to '• compel'
Ins brethren to "come in" to liis periua.
lion, can, without any flrain to his princi
ples, be, at tile fame time, a gooel citizen
in a republican government, appears to fnc
an inexplicable paradox. Let enquiry be
made ot the reason e>f the oppohtioii to tiie
eaufe of freedom ill France. Alk the
counte'r-revoiutionilis why they will Hot
fnbmit to the authority of the National
Convention ? The answer is ready, an(
every one is acquainted with it. I would
not with to iniinuate, (as perhaps some
would afl'ert) that I desire all religion to be
fvvept from the earth : i conceive it tei have
been agood political engine, and, perhaps,
may have been a barrier to the coinniiffioii
of crimes: it is that species of fniaiieifm
and bigotry which 1 condemn, that prompt:
one individual to molelt the tranqui ity eil
hi» neighbour, and unnecrfTarily t Q
the pursuits «»f his happiness. A*elil>olit;or
of this nature, I am foi ry to obierve, pret
ty generally pervades tliele fiates. Our cus
toms, our manner-, and even some of our
laws manifeft it univerfallv prevalent. The
" ° 'did era t ion of this may per haps be the fub
je6l of another efiav. I conciuele at pie
fent by remarking, that a democratic spirit
is entirely incon/jjat'rble with religions fa
naticiim and bigotry. The prevalence oi
one is a ftite ieflimony of the absence ol
the other. If the former should be the
balis of our government, the latter should
be entirety eradicated, as being the foun
dation upon which almost every anti
republican fuperilrufhire is built. They
seem at the present moment, contending
for the sovereignty of the Union. The
forme r, perhaps, may have gotten the flare,
but unlets we are vigilant, the latter may
ItilltaKe the lead, to thedeflrtrftion of that
labrie which has. been reared up at the
expense of the Wood and treafum of om
citizens, and to the eternal infamy of those
who now affio them in their pi ogress.
Aug. 17, ; 793. J. 1) \V.
PHILADE L p H i A.
Wednesday, Auginl 21.
7 IIP foliOM ;"rr j s a Jjft n f ( |, p J*r'
referred toin t|,e circular letter(in!lrted is
our l.tft) to the collectors oi u.e c
1. Citiaeu Genet—2. Suns Culot e —3.
Vainquenr de Kailiile. (These thr.e »eie
fitted out at Charlelton) -4. p e tit Demo
crat, fitted out at Philadelphia, a l'i ;;e "o
the Ambuscade: 5. Carmagnol, Del < _
The national convention of France have*
palled a decree, txceptjng 1 lit 1 -American
Hag, and the America only, jrom the ope
ration of their decree of May the ofli, by
which they declared thai, neutral vc-flels
ftionld not cover an enemy's property.
'J he tlux rages ro an extreme dcgj't'e in
several counties of Virginia adjacent ti>
the he .d oi the Potonißck navigation, and
Georgetown. Upwards ef 500 persons
have been Iwept off within a lew Weeks,
and in lome parts more than two thirds ot"
Come families have fallen the unhappy vic
t.ms of this depopulating diloriier.
It mid be obvious that the two frrrle
men (lee our lair) who have sfiertcd that
the ni.niller of France declared he would
appeal to the people iioni certain oenfion.*
oi the executive ol the United state . , Have
cautiously kept out of view everr cirnim
liaiice ot tun , place, manner, and o.cuu
-011, and therefore rendered ir ; :n; offiblc
twr tlie Iriemb of the minifler to e.lprove
the charge, ior want of its biirip more
jpecific. The publication of. Mr. j y ;.nii
ivir. King appears to oe principally .ntend
cd as a jult-iricaiion of ct»rain j 1.1 sons, for
Ipreatii.-.g a report againll Mr. Genet, un
der their authority, without averring that
it was a fait with iheir own know iedae,
but merely a recital of what they once fa°d,
and not of what they now ali.rm to be
£rl ' e - (N. York paper.)
However the old cry of ivoe.a,,;! and
anufcderalifl may be artfully kept up
(fays a corrcfpo.-uleiit) by dJigni..;;. cha ■
racfers, it is certain that th„!.ie" two, and
all other parties that have exified in the
United States,are nowclearly-YelijJvsblein
to republican and anti-uptii.ii.au oniv.
No otner p;:rries do in reaiity e.vift, anti
which oi ti.-eie n»o flla 11 predominate de
pends in no fm.iU degree upon the fuccels
01 t!;e preieut caiiip.r.gu 011 the 1 rentier ot'
h ranee.
A fm ill {loop was built on t'if
gahela a few months ago, a ftrle above
Pittiburgh, and was leaded on the vveflern
waters with tobacco and pelcrv. She thou
pafled clown to New Ork ans* v here the
wwriers were compelled to land their
goods, and pay 15 per rent ow ti.ei fuppo
led value. j neir vtilei was there to be
made a Span.jh bottom, or no rlrernrcc
could be obtained. Five per cent more
was t<» he paid for liberty to bring oft' the
goods ; a JTpanilh captain and p?or*le were
to be flipped, M.d ilit l sloop tuns iiaviga—
ted, failed lor Philadelphia.the real owners
ot the goods, citiiens of one of il\e weflern
countries of Pennfyivanin, hcinp on board
as paliengers. On her pafllge t! is veJJel r
the ftrlt adventurer il. this meritorious ex
pedition,w as taken by a French privatee.,
the Litiie Democrat, and br<a ht into
this port. as appear jig to lie Sparifh pro-
e hear a guard was ordered on
rH>ard her, by the governor, on Friday
la'!, and i:j all privbabiji:v the itgi lity cF
her capture wii. l>e litigated.
4k Many reports (fays a New.York p->-
per) have been circulated, irjuri -t sto ther
character or the minrfter of France 5.
parrK;i)iar]y that " !;e vn < uld apj>eal to the
on certain decisions ei ihe Prefi
deht 7 '; oTwhich"iafl report Mr. jay and
Mi\ Kir?g are the c'eciaied auihors; but
thin word aione, w:i! rut any proof or
circßreitance given, ought nor 10 be fi-ilj
cient to fix a charge of this ktrd, which,
every man of information knows to be ut
terly unfounded."
There has been lately advrr'ifod to be
Peen in Baltimore, an I; alt India animal
caljed a Mpygot, fnppf f.d to be the fame
with the j-iian ot the woods, deftribed by
Bufion and others. 'Fhe Aji ygot nearly
relembles the human species, and is en
dowed with every faculty or man except
speech.—He will take a ciip, and
drink with ihefame oecoru:M as anv intel
ligent being ; he can ride on- horseback*
climb a tree and dance the rcpe with a—
mazing agility; underftancb any thing that
is laid to him ; his fagacitv is fui^rifingto
ali behouicrs ; is remarkably t: n.e, if noc
unneceliarlv provoked j in fj»ort his un- /
cimmon qualities are such ar. f;:r exccecl
(.'e.cr ption. He i c about thrta feet ard an
half high.remarkably lirong built,bis banc's
a.id fee: exaitly rrfcinLling a man.—
V\ ladies honour hiwi uith their com
pany, he is 01 in his coat, jacket, 8c
.rowfers.
Madrid, me ,4. r n t?-e o.h Infiant,
Don Ventnra Caro, ot cite army of
a\arra,otdeicd 14-. ftttacli or? e r'reiicli
who were polled on three issnnmtains,
nearly inaccessible. After a en
gagement ot Sour hours, otiV tnwfM dis
lodged tiie- enemy, and took the;;- j.ofitioii.
capturing fort f 111011, a ... Uiem as
--r the vfi.agc wl Oi i..uo s 'Uierear of t'-ie Frjnr'i army rva- enrarTitfrt!.
'! hea.'tfo.i w ls very bloody, for the pof
feffun of th? heights, fV.»;n which 4,500
fn< >niarri« cfifluJged >00 French Tile f >r
tificinou of Hanoi furreudered to ti*spi
11MI1 forte 0:1 tne 3d in!t. the gainful, to
the -number of 350, remaining prisoners of
war.
r ', 0 T., re a accounts fmm Spain, it d ie
not .ippe.tr that ciiey have fucceed?d in
any one material i ilfince -I France.
7.x 'irebmin t a member of the present coin
bin. itio-.i, Spam aas proved herfelf to be,
what ihe has aiw :ys been ifl'erted, a feeble
monarchy. She is incumbered with a na
tion .1 debt of near fifty millions Iterling,
her refonrces are inconliderable, and her
military effort# are every where marked
with impotence ami ill success. y ome bla
zoning paragraphs have lately appeared of
funic, of the late toiiqueffi of her armies in
France, bat the authenticity of tiiefe ac
counts is disputed. A number of fortrelfes
in France, as llrongas Vaub in could make
theni. muftbetakta_byregul.tr lieges be
fore the country can be penetrated* and
when these les are overcome, the
Spaniards will hnd the country laid wa I.',
r.ncfno means of fuppiying themselves u irli
provilions" but by all almolt iuipracficabie
!<.nd carriage from their ow 11 country.
F.xirafl of a letter frtn; liambtngh, datjtl
June 15.
11 T' e German newspapers, I fend yon.
rre intended lor one of your newlpaper
printers. In making ufc of them, 1 lyult
remark. it will be neceflary to observe that
they are farced ainioft ail to he partial a
j'-in(t the French; and that their boasted
"vi&ories are neither To decisive, 1101 so
great, as is related. The war w aftej ter
ribly in lives and money, and the Emperor
and Prullia are a Iniofl exhaulitd in point
of finances. Unhappily teofe mifchit vous
New-Jacobinsdo ail they can to promote&
lecono the mc .fui es of the German and o
ther conspired princes. "larat, Roe. r
fpierre, and Damon, aie r. ally the grca'tcfl
enemies of France. But their parly be
giris to fail: and is entirely destroyed at
Marseilles, Bourdeaux, cvc. only Paris and
Lyons support it."
Letters to the 1 ;,rh of June r r«>m Am
sterdam, received < UNew-York, mention,
that trade was then extremely dull, ia
consequence of the French being in polfef
fion of Mayence, and likely to remain so.
This place commands the navigation of
the Rhine, so that none of their enemy's
shipping can venture either up or down
that river.
There had been a battle between the
PriifEans and the French about the lirft of
June, in which great numbers of the
French were loft. One of the heft of the
Pnrftian generals was miffing, and supposed
to be kiiied.
A. letter mentions, Cuftine had a
"battle with the Hollanders, Auftrians, and
Prtiflians, in which Cnftine came of victo
rious, and had made great (laughter of his
enemy. The battle is said to have com
menced nearLifle.
.Extrnfl nf a letter fron fyvAov, Jzne
" 1 am very confident that the French
cannot be 'fnbdued, and in cafe Conde and
Valenciennes (hould be taken, the com
bined powers will not tie a (ingle fttp
nearer the obj<=-tl: they aim at, than thev
are afprefent; became Lisle, and fever..l
other towns are so ftrongiy fortified, that
it is impofTible they (houldadvance into the
country, even were they fnperior in the
field, which is not the cafe."
Capt. Gregory Powers, of the brip Hi
ram, arrived here last Wednehlay, in 14
days from Cape-Francois, was boarded on
the firft of August, by the {loop Susannah,
off New-Providence, Capta/n Tucker,
mounting eight guns, off the weft Caicos,
who robbed the palfengers of every article
they had on board ; they even took two
yards of linen from one of them. He rob
bed them of about ;oo joes in ca(h, and
nearly the fame amount in plate. Six ne
groes were alf'o taken by him, two of them,
being favourite (laves, a girl and boy, were
redeemed, at the requelt of the owners,
by Capt. Powers, the girl for 100 dollars,
add the boy for rjo. Tucker had five
veifels in tow, all of whom he had robbed
of property. Captain Powers supposes
Tucker had upwards of half a million of
dollars worth of property 011 board, which
the pickarooning mifcrcant had taken from
diflreffed French families.
The Britilh brig Chilcomb, Kavanagh.
which failed from this port for New found
land, loaded with 400 barrels of flour and
30 toils of bread, was taken by the Car
magnole, after ten hours cbace, and sent
into New-York.
The following American vefiels are
taken by the Democrat and Carmagnole :
The brig Pilgrim, Captain Earl, from
Madras and the lile of France, bound to
Philadelphia.
The brig Gayofo, Graifberry, bound to
Newt-Orleans.
The schooner Dairy Maid, from New-
Orleans, bound to Philadelphia.
The Britifn (loop Hope, from Antigua,
and the sloop St. Alodia, from New-Or
leans, sent into this port as prizes to the
kittle Democrat, were on Saturday last
f:el;verc<l t:p to owners, they being
deemed unlawful prizes.
i he trench privateer schooner Citizen
re net, returning to this port f rom a crude,
was Dopped at fort Miiflin on Friday even
ing Jaft. This procedure was in confe
rence «f certain rules iili/ed by the exe
cutive, prohibiting French pi ivateerVfiited
out in tiie United Stares, or their prizes,
1. om coming into the American ports.
Trenton, Aug. 14.— On Friday the 2d
m, *nr, rhf- for tfie
uverior's entertainment, afUmbied at
tiie Indian Queen i:i tlii city, honored.,
pursuant to cheir affection ale invitation,
'•yirh ttie pri-fence of In* excellency, vvhero
tney partook of a very eiegaut and fiiperb
l epaJt, provided for the occalion. And 011
vlonday last, .ir the fame place, aflemhled
t':e ladies fubferibers to the tc-a-drinkin-j
tor r'ie Goveraefs. who was aifi) pleafcv
to favour them with her company. The
cii tie uas unmualiy la.ge and refpeftat-le ;
■'Vl<l to the fnblcriii-'s tile invited la. •
and gentlemen, it i: supposed thenum
bc, iiliiit hive exceeded i.o persons ; an<
perli.ips, to dojtiltice Co the citizen ]n.ii■
1 reiiton a .Ml it:: vicinity, one nivre biii
iiart and trn.y captiv atmg even Europe i: 1
•■••• i: » 1 ud not have formed. -
A grand bail concluded tap entertainment.
correipnndent queries whether ' f
wc.uld not he a mark of their aftac!:ir.e:i[
-o republican simplicity in t ie governors
o. the leveral states to difpe: ' • in future
wuiiriie honorary title 01 Kxcelic nc\\ U
»' "eraiiy applied to them at this <la>» ef
pec 1.1: j as,there are not w .niiny; fotne win
would iiillnuale they are very iittie uiore,
I" u aiuy, than high coullables oi corpora
tions. As the great officers of the federal
government have virtu ily difclaime-d this
title oi address, there is a na.pab e ahfnrdi
t> oi retaining it to the si. •. magistrates oi
tne hates, who behdes, in the present ton
dujon of things ought toexhibit themfeive!
the very pink of republican pjainnefs. u
tiifcouuienancc titular innovations r•.h
ful'pttfed quartet- '• His Excellency"
fouiids in iliy earthe very fame thirg a
His Serene Hitrhtuffs,''His Lfjrdiiiip.*' oi
" Wis Grace"—Let us sweep it an, thei:
brethren, from amoiigfl m with the be ion
of ciclti notion, —and may its place no more
be lound in thi l.im'l !—I do not, fee thai
it would :t ail derogate from the officii
dignity Oi'the firft inagilirate of a ikate
to be ftiled lin:piy '• the governor". It
may admit of a doubt however whethei
the Wife of a gnveruor liiou!d Ik- entitled
G;,ve>->/e/s, (as in New Jerfipy) the meic
circumltance oi being wedded 10 a go
\e, nor, by no means conflituting a lnfiv a
member of a state executive—or
lu-r to go ihares in managing the helm oi .
iViitc— U homines, adJ'ervttvtem partita!
Ac a litting oi the national convention
■ ■I the 2d of June, a number of the mem
bers of the convention were put under an
arrest in their own houses, charged with
fomenting difquieludes among the people
ul Pa: is, and secretly plotting a counter
revolution.
1 he members mentioned as arreted arc
Velgniau, iiarbaiuux, Salles, Genfonne.
Guadet, Petion, Briffot, Chambnn.
iiuzot. ■Bitoteau, Lidou, Lafou. ce, Gor
ia , L injuinais, Grangoneuve, Lehardyclu
ivioioihan, Leiage, Louvet, V..laze, the
member *of :.c c. mmdiion oi tweive, ex
■ tpting ihofe who tiit: not certain or
dersoianeft, and the minilters Claviere
and Le iirun are also arrcflett.
1 xii ar.t from a j)iece iigiitd A Fai'vicr, in
theN. Jersey Journal of Aug. 14. and N.
\ ork Daily Advertiser of Aug. 19.—"The
i.ditor oi the National Gazette even ap
peals to the Farmers of America to coun
teuance his abuse oi the Prelident's Procla
mation."—[A fatjhoon—the Lditer cf the
Na ioual Gazette has made 110 iucii ajj
peal. J —
The brig Chilcomb, prize to the French
privateer Carmagnole, fitted evi al
New Gaflie, arrived at New Yo;i,
011 the ibtn inltant. T'iic next day
a parly of niiii:ia was ordered on board
licr (laid to be] in coi.Teqoence of a requi
liiioii si tim the President of the United
Males, in order to have her . eftored to her
former owners, as being an illegal prize
On ihis fubji ft a writar in a New Y o rk pa
per queries a.;follows,•
ifi. If the ts'enty second article of the
treaty has any meaning, what reasonable
confi ruction can be applied to it, other
than that Franeefnall enjoy in our poru, a
privilege denied to nations at war with
her ? Will not the onnliion of the negative
"not" give the true & obvious meaning
of the contracting parties with reipect to
! ranee ? l>oes not common feufe approve
of this conftruetion ?
2dly. But admitting the Carmagnole
trespassed upon our neutrality in the :;,an
ner of her equipment, whence is derivec
our right forcibly to refiore her prizes to
irring in under the faHttion of a ti eaty: w -v
an attempt of tlie kind ever made before?
3d. Inllead of uforting t. torce in tin
firlt inilance, why has not Citizen Gene
bees applied to ?
4thly. Will a party of 30 or 40 men, i:
re lilted,be able to board a brig lying with
in reach of several French liagates and lint
of battle ships.
;thly. If the French admiral does not
resent this indignity to the national flag,
(which it is hoped he will-net! may wt cot
cxpe-'t t! !e >- a -t; r .t;y Convention wli! ma'<e
rep' ii .ti on «t:i vcitelnin their ports, ormav
ney not consider li.is conducl, as a deela'-
-aci"Ti ~f war again!: the republic ?
fithly. Is our country in fucli a state of
leience as to juflify these provocations on
iur part ?
Ttliiy. As we are daily submitting to the
Tloli atrociousdeprto'atioiis on our trade
>y the British, and to the rnoft flagrant
irwches ot the treaty of peace, had we
~t er col,l " v e at . few doubifui acts of
i^ththe!n?» hen r " ' hcadioD S lnto a wur
On the 9rh inff arrivednt Salem (MnfT.)
he hull of thefliip Aib.on of BrrfTbl, towed
1 conducU'll in by the (loop Nancy, capt.
1 ngevb.li, of Salem. The Nancy.had been
>;!t .° ( '?P Uom that pl«ce on he. pailase
" U bi c falling in with ttie
week ii!: the cr.ait of Virginia, and finding
' <'■! worth aitei.tion, lefolved 10
ave her K poitble. She was totally de
•i je-i oy h.v crew, ami appeared as if (he
lad been run down by fonit other vefTel
•eing-.very much dam.ged. her mammal*
md torenialtgorie, her itai board tiowl.ove
■1 even with tier lower deck, and 6 feet
v 'ter in h»r hoi<d. The crew of the
vnev pumped her dry in a few hours,
• ade foil.e temporary repairs, towed her
■ ' le then owe fad upon her, art!
lie ft.i day from their iirft jailing in with
c:\ arrived lale in S i1e,,,. Her cargo is
■Itton, fugmvtnrt, n-a began}' ai )r j oor |_
$ P a l !l f» u,l >> '■'<!, 'he .. pea red to be one
* Jamaica Meet, homeward
'Oil, id ; ano is ;.i)ui;t 200 burrhen.
Or. or about the 14th of July lalt, a p»r.
V ot v rile territory south of the
' lcl | "» w -tb a number of Indians on
!;e ncrt'i hra;,tii <»i the Temii ifee* A
" : ': vy hro O'.gait on both fides, which
ti,e . India 1. uverely, they leaped
to the river, attempting to escape by
vviijiniing over. Fifteen of them were
-ited while in the wate., besides one
rjuaw—lour fqm-ws were'.ken prifonSrs.
N't a man belonging to the white comna
iy w as hurt.
-'tttii frrm fpniu lay, that iinine rP.
lumbers of f u i, refractory pried* have
::e;'reiuge 1:1 t- at kingdom. 111 Biiboa
••ly 1 .lei e were fevc-nteen hundred and
ixty-feven of them, who hav«r been fin. e
1 'reed by the government to difperl'e in
>ie couutry,
' * c-i J <;d; n with his bundle of
Si. Gi egoiShones, and lcventeen thou
fano fit as.—
r.xtrnd of a inn r frnrn Xciv-Jerfev.
li. appears to b- a pretty general cx
>cctat:oi. here tint peace will take place
between hno land, Holland, ant!
' ranee, and thisl may venture to fay, i;
He general wish. There would not then
>e any uneafv apprelieufions for the fuccefi
>t France, nor are they nuijiei 011s now,
or we believe that Paine's observation
vill, upon trial, be found just, that "g
fviiole nation interested in a war, and de
ei mined to prosecute it vigorously, is. be
iiir(! a,I caicnlaiion, more powerful than
ormerly was the cafe, when only the go
ernments of two countries felt thtin
elves interested.'*
T ne town of Portland, (Maffarbufetts)
ifiembled on the 29th ult. entered in:o ii
lumoer of resolves, expreflive of their an
'l obation ofti.e proclamation of the Preii
lent of the United States, declaring the
■euti..lily of this country in the prefem
European war-also their determination
o ad.-.ere to the principles of neutrality ; •
ienned in the co.iflitntion, treaties, and
aws or the United States, and endeavor to
ieteat the intentions of those who may be
uherw if'e disposed—Since the above pe
' od in ny oti.er iieinbiies of petople hare
aeen held in different places, chiefly ita
■ort towns, for a fiinilar puipofe.
Anecdotes—A Scotch Jontlemar travel -
"■» wi| l« bis wife and family from the
ia, ren lulls of Caledonia towards London
topped with them at a tavern in
me of the mid.lie counties of England
vv th a design to refrelh—"Weel, Maifte,'
Oook (laid he upon entering) w hat ha' \e
;;at in the hoofe that we can "eat ?" D—n
Cou, replyed the cook, w hat have we got
11 the hoiife that you can't eat ?"
Mr. Dumlae, during his late precipitate
etreat from Pertly when the populace
•vers prepai inp his effigy, was counselled
jy a friend toflinga purse to the people,
u.hcieut to purchase a barrel of beer to
•xtinguifh the expefled blaze. " Na, na
■xclaimed the Secretary, the de'el take'
r,u ail I would na be burned 111 a peat
rack, eie they fiiould melt a guinea out of
ny pocket 1"
CO MMU N I CAT 10 N.
-Advertisement Extraordinary.
Notice is hereby given to whom it may
-oneern, that an humble petition will b
nrefented to the next general legislature o!
he Union, praying that an a6t may pass,
iv here by any perton or persons, who may
nave the afjuraace to qneftion the juredi
or (,Il 'e infringe the ancient
.■iiao.ifl'.fd Htaxini of
Superior locus judicatur a nemine,"t
ivlmhis now in fi,ii force in all the State?
nbn a to the iurifdiaion of his holiness, the
Sings of Sardinia, of Spain, and in some
my he io fkfr
A: , ; W'thout benefit of' clergy."—*
11 '"""pei-fable neceifitv c-iIU fnr thl
"lion ofthis act, as Mr G emft h cl °-
queftior.cd the imderftandiug of Hie" Frf^
ftThel the , r^ re '" e -agmrate of 9 ther^
the,, and there di<! fay, '< I anneal r»
Mr V h "" "r ,S P ub:i "'«l t;.at the
h a>e some portion Of equality i„ ,hi s
'! PPCr sent Cannot be """1 to
„ tiers" , b V lmv tr
—by this maxim, superior m ...•«•••«
iZje /° a " fwcr for their conduftto Cod
r ne PfioßAticnary O nEs
1 J No Ast, hlq.
(Continued.)
O D F. x.
■ r o the Dj-mocrai ical Society of
PHILADELPHIA.*
Jonathan reproveth the impertinent
or irflitution—P,ophecietii
concerning a wouid. b:gv , nt .J an , r
compart,on with the bod"!
™ merits of ;he
Heads, &C.
Per injidias ,ter efl, formajfuo fer„r, !m .
Ovid.
5° X herT SEEITION! fa - v - whatdoyoa
re and hydty rrrivatV reign >
VVheie wealth reward. tte/«v«WW
diftldin. 3 ' y ° Ur crovelin 8 art,
1" watch "1 Jt-o*. hi, Un'-arVn? r, R bt
jince time begtji, j;i|| unobfeur'd ren>,i« >
*» watch his beauteous /7-VVr-erA of'rieht'l
Train I Which loW P°ft
?°p!v:t your iefefcop? ; 3 t n ft each flap
found ! int Pl ' e ' e iUum " ti,e vast pro.
"'?, me . blc!n:fll amongfl them, fhal) easier far
i nan in »ur bright Galaxy, here,he found, f
S'o- Jefj :■! I„Jh e, n* not lefsin <]zc
i h.-in a dim plana to the orb of'dav
he ' v "' to vvi,u "'*'*'«•
Our V,ce like Mercury purges his way,
Scowling nt?li«nant on the Indian r ; :! ; ns
intent to Pet Cl.eir wi : - W ;.n: all an fire.
>ee k***, like ruddy Mars his ,ourfe
maintains
Through iions.fccrpions, & Chimaras dire.
Hncert of planets that adorns our inhere,
Refulgent in his triple§ golden " '
t,v".^ ******* Jupiter appear,
Wnh jatelhtu around his per thi one.
Whim on thoK minor orbs hi, /,*/,, he fheis,
that borrowed ligfct on him fhail they
|! e ,Jf pours down bleffii: n , . ; ,ir
With inceufe to repay fiiall they ne 2 iec>.
Remov'd beyond the reach of vulgar
As far as human brains, or thoughts afpir,-
Thefeif-tllumtr, d Minos (V eep-: the C 'es
Like Saturn, freezing,U 'midst his rirr
°J *
Yo^r^? ftbeho!d!wh -^^
n U ° a!l father meet:
p!-en-frM«^hat!
nn l r ? Geosge to u ke his ail- 4
nual leaf ? 9
Ceafethen, ye the, of darkne's ! cease td
pry
rnto those ferrets yoti're forbid to know :
oOJitent yourselves to Tcrutinize the iky ;
i i efume not to enquire what's done below!
» For the objects of this institution—see
he National Gazette, No. 179.
, t Dav.d Rittenhouse, F.fq. if not
Mfji'jl, at leafr anion;; t |, e ,<fv// Astro
NoMers_ which the world has produced
1 I.e tut immortal Newton, is Prefidenl
Jt tiie lociety.
n 14 e y er: w ftriai,reson th!s 'nftitmion
n ivlr. rtnuo s Grrzette.
J Head of the Treasury; ruler of the
bank! covimijfioner xri forciir,■ loans.
Jl The orbit of Sat,to, being at an im
rnenfe distance from the fnn, it is general! •
uppofedthat the temperature of that ti n
'let is as cold, as that of Mercury is V .
' r hc temperature of Mars is ftipped ro i-e
less ardent Chan, his ruddy look would in
dicate.
1 The names of feve-a! confutations
** It is then on.y to be fee., in its full
luiire s some oi the moll brilliant confteil--
tions being invijib e at all other periods.
p 3 Remainder ef a Song on a late n7-
v. >"'giKen)ent, and some other comnu. -
mcations, are unavoidably deferred t«
our next.For jhe National Gazette.
To Jonathan Pindar, Esq.
"DRAY, Peter s Coulin, lay slide your pen
Nor in bold metre venture to expose,
Th? creeping tricks, and hidden wiles
of men.
Who join in concert, underneath the rose.
Though they fliould blush ; determin'il
in Their crimes,
A brazen countenance again unfold,
Nor can the Satire of a thousand rhyme?
Jnfule remorse in those who may be fold.
Now having gaiu'd the banks and pen
sions both,
Aspire with nobles, and with lords to fit,
Who to.re(ign their birth and titles loth,
lii proclamations dark expose their w'.t.
Cesf-* then, nor with such acid tooh
engage
Though von may all great Peter's fiic
potlVfs ;
P.nt seek their rankling spirits to affmrt
Andleave such men to ravage and opp'-efs.
j. A. N.
ADDRESS of the French Citizens o
New-York, to the Mmitter of Fiance.
To Citizen Edmuhd Charles Gen-et
Miv.fler Plenipotentiary of the Republit
c) Fiance, to the United States of A art/.
America.
time is near at hand in whil
j[ mankind, by force of arms and rea
son will annihilate despotism. Your appear
ance in this our hemilphcre,& your mifiioi
as a plenipotentiary, from a free sik
virtuous people, eflure us of the triumph:
of the cause oflinmanity, and the future
hsppinefs of eur mo;her country. Oil
citizen ! it i* at tllia dear name that oin
hearts are roused, especially when we re
fltft on the masy evils which she has fuf
fered for ages pall, from a government nf
childish craft and ignorance, flriving to
er.fiave a nation whose literary fame ha>
ever diftingufhed it from the reft of
morta's.
In this land of Liberty you are surroun
ded with'hole sages, heroes, and repre
fenta ives of a free and magnanimous peo
pie, who £i ft imbibed facretJ pretensions
to the.rigi)ts of man ; those who destroyed
the infernal blind folds which hid the
chsrtm of truth , this is the people whe
demunftrated to France, to the universe
the pofiibility of obtaining them—thi:
Iniill be, then, a people of genius ; the)
reciprocally imparted to each other politi
cal knowledge and patriotic views, ir
spile of infernal fo'ges, and an abfoluti
power, which was frightened at phan
toiiis by a theory which seemed to Dt
the emanation of the divinity.
Receive, Citizen, the sincere vows w'nicl
we makeyou for that fuccelsin arm ; whicl
the people of France ough' to be crown
ed with in their vigorous efforts. Having
become citizens of Ameiica we refjr fl
its laws; but the prtfent cause being tht
cause of delpots against freemen, we can
not forefee with tranquility and indiifer
euce, thai if the republic of France fhoulc
be crushed by this unprecedented coaliti
on of tyrants, we also should be threaten
ed with the fame fate. The cause is com
mon to us, but we fubrait to the decilion*
of our »ife legislatures, whether we oughi
to remain ina&ive, or awake around thoft
| colours to which your nation lent a propi
» tious hand, and which triumph over ty
rants.
The joy which the people of this vafi
country have w tneffed to you, are the
n>ofl certain figne of their gratitude, ancj
as to us, citizen, it confirms us in the po
fitive opinion, that you will be prosper
ous in that important embassy that tht
people of France have confided to you,
which we all sincerely hope will be crown
ed with the happiest success
By order of the French Republicar
Citizens of the city of New York.
(Signed) JOHN F.VACB.EE,
Aug. 9, 1793*-
REPLY.
New-York, Aug. 9, 1793. 2d year
of the French Republic.
Citizens,
BORN Frenchmen, the love of liberty
drew you to America ; this, day, in
this double capacity, you come to manifefl
your vows and your affe&ions for your
mother country, now bccome that of
freemen.
1 he p-op'e of France have, for a lrn<»
tiaie, ardently wished to be one family
with the people of America ; kindred
sentiments have imperceptibly drawn them
towards each other ; this is well known,
and in spite of all those obstacles which
some have thrown in the way, thev are
convinced, that these two people are made
to love, to tdteem, and to be united to
each other.
Frenchmen, look upon that epoch as
great and happy in which the people ot
i wo free countries can give to the world the
f'.iblime example, of two rations mixing
their interells and their affections—then
will be commenced the mod; glorious revo
lution that ever honored mankind—'hen
hatred of people to people, fomented by
tyranny ; wars which have strewed the
gh>be wiih blood ; and the (hackes of
commerce, which discourage industry and
retard the progress of the social vi. tues,
i-.-ill difappear| and ail the human fp'cies
breathing, after a long m scry, will employ
themfjves on the fubjeft of their individu
al and joint happineis, in the bosom of
Peace, Abundance, and Liberty.
Citizens, the tribute of gratitude and
jffettion which you pay your country,
ioes you honor, and is natural ; those who
had the happiness to be born in France,
ivill never forge' their native countiy
Tliefe particular evidences of your cf
teem are, to me, flattering encouragements;
the only recomoence which I hop: if, to
obtain that of my fellow citizens ; having
such a repolrory for my confidence, I (hail
be able to support their rights with un
moveable firmnefs nor will any obstacle
ever abate my constancy or my zeal.
(Signed) GENET.
THE NEW MARCH ANT :
He Sells Cheap.
Ffom an Eajiern Paper.J
THIS fayirig sets the world a gadding
—girls and boys, old women and ail,
"or the store, and to fee the new mar
:hant.—Timothy Chowderliead, who is
oo lazy to hoe corn, goes to Ntw-York,
ind gets a hoglhead of rum, a few fans,
r auzes, buttons, buckles, tapes, r bbons,&c
See. on a credit for fix months—Tim, is
ow coaxing his cousins, and evety idle
lunce, to purchase—when any peifon who
A'eais naif a head, might know they won't
xay for them in fix years; but he fe'ls cheap
—Tim. Chowderhead will, perhaps, by a
ieaconifh story, and fair proimlcs (which
(ic knows he never can fulfill) get a new
recruit next fall—after which, friend Tim
othy mav have leisure to wind up his bob
bin, and seek a retreat in Canada or Ver
mont—Axd foerds ths new marchr.nt.
Peleg Waterfpotr, was by birthright a
horse jockv of the Hrlt fart—He could
drink new rum, chew tobacco, and tell
negro (lories—He bought Old Continen
tal horles, jt thirty (hillings a head, at the
close of a campaign, that were broken
ivinded, spavin' , fore-backed, and ring
boned—kept them till spring, and with
:he aid of his honsft father, fold them to
he fame haiids, for good and yom>or —His
:heats were known—but what of that ?—
twas the universal cry, Peleg fells chrap
—He then commenced merchant, fui!
flooded—Every old ma d in town visited
lis store—'twas a new store—he trusted
nil after harvest, and he fold eheap—Har
veft after harvest puffed, but no harvell
:ame for Peleg—the bugs had eaten thf
■vheat four years in advance.— Peleg goei
:o Vet mont, and turns preacher—and h(
"ells cheap—No taxes —no falary—-wlil
woald not go to hear Pekg—he is a JacK
it all trades—lf can fay a litof ev-r\
hing —he can read without spelling—tel
lories, and almost work miracles—<lrin!<
icw rum— chew tobacco, and tell negrt
lories—he does it cheap.
Peter Threfliabout, is a (lurdy lad, ant
might do honor to a broad hoe, or a ditch
ing spade—Peter has been sailor, toldier,
fiddler and peityfogger, and has twicc en.
tered the Stone Jug as a broken merthani
—But Peter always fold cheap.
Felix Mercury, mounts an old flanking
hag of a mare, with old saddle bags (luffed
with noltrums and boluffes, and-(allies forth
a Doctor at all points—the canker, rash.
and belly-ache are vanquilhed only at the
finell of him : but Felix trades cheap—
If an old maid chances to have the heaves,
'tis Hem. con dignified with a polypus upon
the heart—lf a j irl har flimfy ancles, nnd
turns her toes in, it is, to be sure, St. An
thony's dai.ee, und (lie mult be salivated—
Felix Meicuiy's conundrums are all of his
own preparing ; and if they don't quite
make the dead live, it is thought they will
and often do, make the living d.ad—aiifl
he still fells cheap Felix is a iron of to*
■erabie bodily abilities, and wields the
iiladoi-r with a ;rood deal of eclat.—'Tls
conjectured, that if Felix could be perfuad
-"d to confine his genius within a proper
phere, he cut a tefpe&able figure
it p. plough-'ail—But he is cheap.
N. B. A Jullice of the Peace has fuli
rjited a poll next in order to Dofler Felis
—however, as the measure of his iniqui
ties remains as yet unfilled, he mult lUik
by for the prefeni,
[From a Conatß'icut paper.~\
Mr NOTRIGHT was bred a me
;bau:e ; his father left him, beli.les hi
lade, a lnia.'l farm on which, with a mo
lerate share of labour he might have got
ten a good living But he was not-fatia
lied He calculated the profiis of trade
The retailers, said he, go 10 New Yorl
and purchase goods on credit ; they fel
hem at per cent, profit; the;
fend produce to nuke remittance, on whic!
they libewife make a profit : they mull
and do grow rich amazing fall! 11l g<
into trade. Down to New \ ork he went
purchased a large (tore of goods, put «>.
,iis ruffled fhi-,, and opened ilote in tin
proper mercantile taile ; his family like
.vise fty.-n became people of falhion, a:ic
.•ommeiiaxi good ciiSo-rners to the llore
He went rapidly on in bufitvefs, advetti
'ed pompously in the papers—built an ele
sam httufe—enlarged his (lore and 011
uuifes—pnrchafed fb.Tlior.s and j.icks—
ivas choien to offices in the town—be
:ame a great rich man, and the people
vere aftoni.htd at his profperiiy. liut lo j
he New iTork merchants bccame clarno.
oiu about rertain oi l accounts of iom ;
•ears Handing ; on examining thole ae
:ounts, there were found more than thirty
I'u's to one By. On examining his uc
tounisat home he fuund the cafe quite
lifferent, there were mcpie than th tiy
By'# to one To (By the,way this was
he lii ll time that he ever examine ! my o|
lis account)). He wasifumewhat f. rpri
ted—What Ihould he du ? He borrowed
noney at 12 pir cent, per annum inteiell;
;ontra£te«l new debts to pay old ones—
l'ook up more good? than usual, and l" Id
hem at his than prime coil—went in
.0 more branches of trade than before—
:ftjhliihed manufactures,, and leemcd'fobc
i greater and richer man than ever. But
ila3 ! a certain little mat. had the impti
ience, one to chp this great
nan on the fhotilder, and pronounce some
rry f ucy words. Here ended his career.
His estate wa3 delivered into the hands of
ruftees for the benefit of his creditors,
who it is said, will receive (hillings in
he pound. Mr. Notright is now etn
jloyed in making (hoes— had he
lot be;ter have been always thus employed:
Shrew/bury and Philadel^nia
STAG E.
THE Shrew(bury a.io Philadelphia fta^e,
will commence to run regularly, t.n I hurl
lay he fourth of July, to leave Philadelphia 011
:na'. day, after vr.iich tim;, during the month
3t July, ii will fla.t from M'Kean andVanEm
aura's wharf ai Philadelphia (the neit wl.ai f be.
low ArChlfreet) on every Sunday and Wednef-
Uy k proceed to Bj.-dcnton —the li.ad fta;e t,
proceed on the next morning t<» Edington, an;
to return on ev :ry TuefJay and Fri jay. In ihi
month of Augu'}, itwi'l leave PMiad Iphia. or
;rery Sunday and Thuifday, and returu on ever;
Tuesday and Saturday.
Fare for PaHengerjfrom Philadelphia
roEdington - - two dollars &an half
For goods ditto - ditto pr. cwt, cne dliai.
VAN EMBURf,® M KEAN,
Samuel *orman,
Bordenton June 29, 1793.
For freight or palfage, apply to the mattera 01
board, or to
M'KEAN & VAN EMBTJRGH
Who have for lilc as vjuil at thiir (Voies o« fail
a'f, pork, hams, H ur, lard, butter, rye ant
d;a,i meal, cbeefe, bar Irun Icq. &c.
J u '> 3* am.taw.
TO THE PUBLIC.
an attachment at the fait of Sam
uel Irnl.iy and Nathaniel Imiay, executor
nf thp testament and Ja'ft vi!! of Pete. Jnilay, de
has ifued out of the Sui.ieme Court of
Judicature of the state of Ncw-Jerfey, agaii.ft tlir
I? 1 ' f Garret Voorbeis, late i»f the cou'»r yOl
r '"-(er, and ftzte aforefaid, returnable to rh"
m L Tuelday in September, feventren hur.dre.
ani ninety two——Notice is hereby given to th
iaii Garret V >orheis, tl.at unless he an
I.- ipecial b-iil said adtion, judpmt*n
vmII dc entered against him, by default, a..«< ih
i.iios so attached mid tor the iatistachon ot fuci
i his creditors as (fcail appear to be jjjftty eolillet
r any dcmanJ ti\e!ion, and (lall ap.iy' f, r iha.
jirpwfe, according to the lurin 01 ihc ftdiule if
f;:h cafe made and p ovided<
By ord-r of rh» Court,
Ap*il 17. law, iy HOWELL,
Notice to Di/lant Subscribers.
p I'fuiu in arrears for this p..:ier,
and po'.i inciters :nd others who'may have
received fubfviption money 01 account of
the fame, are recjtielUd to make speedy
remittances. To prevent the dues iv>t. -
ling to a 1 improj.tr amount, ni papers will
be continued to fiibfcribcrs after rhe firit
Jay of November next, who ihali then be
indebted more than lix months.—Puiiclu
siity in fubl'ci ibers, is the sirs( re juifite in
undertakings of this nature, and .vii'.-out
« hit h it is iropoliible that any publication,
ilepeuding meivij on fubftription, can long
exiit.
AHtn to7vrfiit>, , jttjr ctunty,
To whom it may concern.
WHr.k'L,\S my wife Sfh< »H SHAW hath
jchaved <n a very unoecoming manner, I
lave thought fir ro forewirn all pe-fons tufting
ler" on my account, ss 1 am determined to pay
10 Jrbtg of her contradVing, after, the date
lereof.
JOHN SHAW.
Augu:"* 7793.
shoals <f Ofrrchee, {Gecrvio) June jB.
ST O P IHi £F.
THE public are requeued to )K> a villain wh.
cails h'm'.elf 'l'homas Stevens, or Steven
ion, is a ihcemaker, fays lie w «s barn in th c
rUte of New York, is aboiit 5 icei 7 ->r $ incne
high, well m.de, fair complexion, ih Tt cu;!id
hair behind, and bald before to the ; has
a fear on the oack. of h,» Ivad, whi.'b h? f.-.s be
in Savannah in d*. I'ence . r M . MiHin,
his ei>Dicyer, dv a fti olce of a b.<ot tree by a Mr.
Smith! «n j has trawcUed th v "niglv every state ij»
he Union, and frveralof the lioian nations ; he
loir from this place a lo re! GtMing, about 13*
»r 14 han. & ha® a fl-ar in ' is face, branded
»n rhe mounting • nouloer RM j>ioed, paces and
rotr. Likewile, a half worn d-m-bie ikined fad
ije, w.th plated ltirrurs, and a fnafftr oridlt, wiih
itirvou i-1 a led buckles, and a pairofgoofe
f 'ai. •. ipma. Whoever wi.J bring laid
wrfit ,ind thief to the lubUiiber, fiiaU receive
i en Guineas reward
SIMON DAY.
Jul} 9. 5,
■ — - ■ ■ " — - - I——
Seat of War.
FOR S A L £
At M. Carey's Store, 11 S, Mar
ket-(ireet.
A SHEET MAP
Of the French, A (Irian ani Dutch Ne»
th rlani!s,
In which thepro~rcfs of the pr fint War
may be trace;!.
Price three eighths i f a Dollar.
And a M A P ..f the
Three Northern Diltrifty of France, di
vided into Departments—Price
one fourth of a Dollar.
Maps of the United States :
A * pub /c-lpiritc. gentlemen, jjoliefled wick
i. jL materials for couching and improving the
maps of the several f<-ites, will Uy M Cart-y
under very particular obi garions, by communis
at»ng them. Hr is in irr>mc>:ia:e want of some
r New-Jerfry and. Drlaware j cf which
leis now p — rvinp rr»np«,
Guthrie's Geography:
THE fui'lci iption lor i;us ». • ilc will be conti
iued open, ai the present ate of twelve
ill tke firO day of November nest , after vWiicA
twil: bf raised tofouitecn lioliars.
Au(u!l jo.
yuJlPublfoed
By Johnston and Justice,
No. 41, Chel .ut-.Vr>eet, and may be had at
No. 209, Market Sr eet,
Price ore and J cur fence haif penny,
' Travels through America,
A Poem—by Michael Forrest.
CONTENTS:
VOYAGE fioin lieland to Newfoundland—>
Deicription ot Ncwiv.ui.u.uii.»-—■ . oyage frOiQ.
Newl'ou- oland to u jlton— Ar'drefj to Columbia'
to rhe ai;vj 10 H»M—Voy??«
from Boston t■; Baltimore—Oblcr.ations on pali
ng going to Philadelphia—A view
t a youth in tl.» schu_.lkill and
(;»orting on its matgin—Defer :»:soii of Fhiladel
; n ii ; —A frute-nal scene—-A m>'ra! deduced from
tie fraternal (cen • —Battle of tie kegs in Phila
delphia—Sailing from Philadelphia to Borden--
twn in a ftaue boat — Philolophical contempla
tion with reCpedt to human happinefi—View of-
Burlington and Briliol—A de irate view of a.
i 'ung lady bathing in a fyiv*n pool—Rolanda ir*
the t rove » a luial fcene—Mora from the dirtrefw
or Rolandu— Aodiefs to inconltanc
: -vain—The approach of Winter—A Winter-
Storm—l fie approach of Spjing — A view of il»c
jolar lylK-m en a fine iummer n^i^ht—Rural ob
.. rvat'or.s—Battle v.f '• iet:co.i —i'tajfe oj Gei>c >
■ • I Waidingi:on—Da.Lne <nd a ru»aii
i'c-rr.e—Vojagf-o CharklV«n, South-Carolina—•
description r I Chaileft -n apd the Ladies of Ca
i lin - -- Verses to 3 Car? lira Lady---Siege of
Ch.' leflon — to F«'rfi->c.-.Ve r frs a-'-
-ireHed to a you!- 5 oeotieinau ai ii»e Cbarltfton
C«>J ege-AraHi'Ti -- -A r> f unlimited
'ufciime poetry — Mai. ,r.all uc nee, a new fonn-
PRIHTEO BY
GUILDS and SWAINE.
AT TKEIf «Tf ICI N -. 1J 9» HirH>STlllT A
MAD FIFTH STS E JT,
7 KiIAU .*i iij Xt