/
v „ .... , w DArs and Saturdays, [Three Dollars per annum.]
Bl P.FRE gX AU • (« No. S.ta.)
Numb. 89 of Vol. li.]
FXTRACT from Governor Miffi.in's
Speech to b-th Honjes of the LJJJlatw e
ef this State ■
" '•pHE state of the Union,and of Pen 1 ' yl
-L vania, as an important member oi t.ie
Union,renders the present fslii •» peculiarly
fortunate. The exunfive commercial in
tercourse that fiibfiits between the United
States, and some of the belligerent power.,
of Europe ; the foiemn obligations o; trea
ty, by which we are pledged to others : —
thefentinients of a cordial friendllnp, which
cement our alliance with one party ; ar.d
the jultice which, as a nation at peace, we
owe to all the parties;—arc considerations
of filch variety and importance, as.can
not, I think, be contemplated by any pa
triotic citizen, without foiicitude and ap
ureheniion. But, however great the diffi
culty may be, under these circum.lances,
of preferring » neutral character, in a
manner univeiT.illy fatislactory, it is cer
tainly the duty of those, with whom the
adm'miftration of the public is en
trusted, to attempt the arduous talk :and,
1 am confident, that, recollecting the ca
lamities, which we have formerly expe
rienced,' an I refteftnig, wi'h becoming
gratitude, upon the present profperotit
conditio .of our country, you will appro* e
and (aiiftion every just and coullitntional
exertion, that is calculated to maintain the
dignity of our government, and to avou;
a participation in the war.
Upon this meritorious principle, anil in
order to put the citizens of America on
their ?uard, at this critical period, the
Pre fide nt ifljed a Proclamation, declaring
that the duty and interefl "t the United
States required, that they ihouid, with
Sincerity and good faiih, adopt and pmfue
a conduit friendly and impartial towards
the belligerent powers ; and, as the letter
which communicated, this proclamation,
expreflctl a confidence, that injunctions
interelVing to the happinefsand profperit)
of the United States, would have the be
nefit of my aid, to promote their genera
and ft rift ttbiervaace in Peivnfvlt inia, 1
thought it incumbent upon mc, I Itewife,
in the molt public manner, to rccomio nd
the fubjeft to the attention of my fellow
citizens; and to exhort them faithfully to
contorm to thedi:pofition, which thePre
fident had officially recognized and pre
scribed. . .
This amicable and impartial difpoGtion,
being thus announced, on behalf of the ge
nera? government, some occurrences soon
rendered it ueceSfary to provide an ade
quate & prompt remedy, in cafc of any vio
lence being committed by the belligerent
powers; upon vessels within thejurifdiftion
and protection of the United States , or in
cafe any of those powers, tiionld conimiffioii,
arm. and equip privateers within our port;,;
a practice deemed i.ieonfillent with the
duties of neutrality, and dangerous to the
peace'of the nation. Accordingly, in the
c.ipacity of commander in chief oi the mi
litia of the commonwealth, I received in
structions from the President of the United
States, to interpofo ill either ot those
events, and, with the aid of the militia,
to detain the aggreffor,in the firft instance ;
or the privateer in the second : until the
Prtlident f; ould decide upon such further
proceedings, as the occasion might require.
'These infh uftfons being immediately com
municated to the Board ot Wardens, with
a reqt;E ft that they would pay a vigilant
attention to the fubjeft, 1 w as afi'ured that
proper measures would cheerfully be pur
sued, for ascertaining and reporting, with
ontdelay, every traiilaclion, that appeaV <1
to militate agaißll the peace and neutrality
of the port.
Permit me here, gentlemen, b. iefly to
recapitulate the fevcral cases that have oc
curred under the Prcfident's instructions:
referring however, for a more particular
statement to the documents which X have
directed to be laid before y.ott-
The firft was the cafeof theftiip Willian .
brought into this port as a prize to the
French privateer called the Cit'r/.< 11 Genet,
but captured, as it was alledped, within
the limits of the protection of the United
States. The court of admiralty for thi■
difrict having decided against its own
jurifdiftion, as to trying t .e merits of th u
allegation, the President reuuefted., that I
would order a party of militia on board of
the (hip. for the purpose of keeping her in
1 fafe cultody, until his determination should
be had upon the fnJ-ijett. With this requeit
| I immediately complied ; hut, upon it'
i being officially intimated to me, that a
subsequent arrangement had been made,
lor leaving the iljip in the pofieCion of the
W E D N E S D A Y, September 4, 1793
French confiil; wl.ile the legitimacy f
c;jn,i;re was u leler confideivtio ). I d.rcvt
• •<i the party of militia to be w.tnar.wii.
\fSer this direction was given, however.
untied to the French consul, rhai
patWiiun tranfnutted t« me a writteri i. -
i!ni'dient, complaining ••■■■•> W. ute
the leisure iod detention ot -Ik
' l>r The next In'lance was attended, witi
more difficulty. Oiithe22dot J..nc, ti.t
nailer warden fupicitMl t» me, >lut t •
l it 1 !" Sarah (,m\v taJltd the Lu.le .).<■ ■
ni) prize to the Ambuscade <r:gate, w.a
irr„i<T out ill the fame manner a, puva
:eers : ;:;id th'.s information 1 'innieu a.et)
oniiMunicated to ilie Preliden.. Oil tic
>Ath of the fame month, the mailer ward-i
liade a more particular report on the luo
ea, which was, like-.vite, lubmuted u
lie Prefidem's consideration. But, as_ 1
lid not receive any directions ,n confe
luence of these communications, ] pie
umed that either the cafe itleif, was no
,v it hi n the meaning of the general in
iructions Mfhich had been given ; or tha
he equipments mentioned in the report:
>f the mailer win 'ens didjiot fufficiemlj
(certain the fact, that ihe-vtlf • w >s i,i
ended for a privateer. On the sth ot July
aowever, the secretary at « ar i cpre.eutei
0 me, that since the report 01 t.ie iriafei
,vaii'en, Inch indirect information h.u
been received, as would, i! founded, ren
ler it indifjUit.ible, that the Little Sai al
aas arming and equipping as a ci'uilei
jnd, thereupon, I inlliuited the neceilar;
.'iiquiries, for accurately afceitaming tht
:ii cumitances relating to the veflel. .11
uformation which I collefled, conhrmei
.lie opinion that I hadoriginally conceives,
ind afforded reafou ta suspect that (he hi
ended (liortly to leave the port. In uc]
herefore, to obtain an opportunity i(ir ih<
Preiident (who was then able'nt from t..t
itv) to decide upon the propriety, ct for
.ibly detaining her. as- the was declared t.
>e the propeitv i f tlie government '■!
[-Vance, I directed t! • fecietary of tlx
-omuionwe.iirl'. to wtjr, up' 1 the m.nil.ci
jf the r jiubiic, to repeefent to him tlx
i-.cuW- »uces ...' the c?-(c, 10 d ;om,i.c!i,
'or the preservation of p ace and harmony
hat he u uald give direct ions for fnfpe: dint
ler.drparture. But as the nlinifler woujc
lot enter into any fatisfactory 1 flnrance i;
his refpefl.l tho't it my duty, immediate!)
o iiift.ua the mailer v. a. den of the pen
o prohibit any pilot from taking charge o!
lie vefiel ; and I dflum Ordeis to tac Ad
utant General for making a draft from the
nilitia, for the pnrpefe of carrying inn
; if c a the President's > .d.T.aions. The lie
efljty ofaninlerpolition, in dfs mode, wee
"ortunately, however, superseded, by ai
rxplanation with the Miniller of Trance,
ivhich induced the secretary of Hate to be
ieve that the velfel would not Lie permit
eel to fail, till the President's fentiineriti
,n the fubjt ft were declared ; and, tipor
die requtli of the secretary of itaie, I dif
rontinued the military arrangements, v. hid
sad been prtviotifly direfled.
A few days subsequent to this tranf.iaion
he French consul represented to me, thai
;n Engii.'h armed vefiel, cal'.c-d the Jane
tarrying 16 guns, provided with a letter ol
narque, and deligning to cruise upon 0111
.oalls, had arrived at Mud Iflahi! ; and.
-eferringto the treaty of amity and cons
inerce between the United Stales am
Prance, he reque-fted that orders might be
riven to prevent this vefiel from entering
.'lie harbor. Up»n enquiring, however,
nore, particularly into the fails, the mallei
■.varden reported, that the lliip came fi
ller to take in a cargo for the ifiaud ot Ja
maica ; audit appearing that her eiUiip
nentsund commiflion were intended for
>1 oteaion. in a coLirfe of lommerce, ani'
ot for ofrenlive war, 1 did not conceive
hat the cafe was comprehended within the
irovifions of the treaty ; and, therefore,
"übmiited the consul's representation, snd
ill the documents relating to it, to the
Preiident : whole opinion. 1 believe, cor
-efpopded with mine upon the fubjea.
Though such were the sentiments enter
ained on the arrival of the Jane, it war
oon suggested, that her captain, having re
itted her in a warlike manner, wasendea
lourjng to incr'eafe the number of her
mi?n and guns. A vigilant attention was.
therefore, tneu to all her operations: ard
every article of authentic intelligence that
I colieaed, w as, without delay, transmit
ted to the Preiident; who desired that the
veflel might be flopped, in cafe (lie ftiotild
be augmenting her force, and about to
depart. On these points, conclusive evi
dence was, at length obtained ; and be-
cadie ir.y duty to provide, with the aid oi
Lne fhilitia, for detaining her. But in the
course of a eofrelpondeoce with the Pre
sident on the fubjeft, I was informed, that
in conftqiience of an arrangement with the
British uruifler, it was deemed imnecffary,
at that inoment, to interpose with the mi
litia ; although it was expected, that I
should jß.mpioy filch means of coercion, a:
were in my power, for flopping Iter, should
(he.attempt to depart before a liipulated
.Kiiod. a::d without a determination upoi:
1,..t i.'.V. The vefl'el; having eventual!)
compLed with the i-junc'iions that were
ijiven, for the reduction of her militar)
torce, v. as permitted to prosecute her voy
l*'i:t in the cotirfc of thcfe trmfaOions, 1
rlearly discovered, that it would be im
practicable to execute the Prefid-ent's in-
ItvncLons by drafts from the militia, made
Oil the tput of every occalion. It war, ob
vious that the equipmenc ot privateers,
and the lommiffipn of other outrages upoi:
the neutrality of the port, might take place
in the* (li eam ofihe river, ;it a confiderablc
di'tance from the lliores ; and thonld an)
oppofiiion be given lo the measures that
were ilire£led to be employed in fucli cases,
fur detaining the attending parties, ftlccef
nouli! be rendered doubtful ; the honour
of the government might be committed;
and the'tranquilily of the city mud he dif
turb«d. W'tha view, therefore, to dif
ch ute the duty itrpofed upon inc. in a
manner the inofl effieieot, and tlie luoft
, 1 tlationed a ptirty of militia at Mud
lll.ind, arid erefte-'l a battery there, so as
to comm hid the navigation ot the Dela
ware : having previiMifly communicated
H.y elrfign to the President, and < btainrd
die attorney general'# opinion in favour o;
its legality. I enj'.y the fatisfafti-.n in
deed of knowing, that the arrangement
\\ as !,ene'rally approved ; and, I am con-
Relent, tint, on your parr, you will not only
uieerfnllv elefriy the incidental expence
(of which, together with copies ol tlie or
der, that have been iilued, lrom time to
\me. an account will be transmitted to
it-ti). but that you will all-) pro* • e for die
o,' triuaace of so nece llary an eflabdftiment
upon a more perh ci t ; at ieatt tlar
-I,f tile cxiltence of the European war.—
I'he charge for the pay and ra ; o.i- of the
"ditia wall eventually be exhibited agairll
;he general government ; to v. liofe officers
I am indebted for the I .an of anus and am
nunition ; but it will be neceflary in rht
mail time that the legiflauire fhoi'.ld make
in appropriation for repaying to the Bank
■if Pennfyltania, a lam of 2CCO dollars,
lAhirh (being borrowed on my perfonnl
credit) has been expended, with the drifted
economy, in maintaining the men, railinj!
.he platform, ai d making the indifpenfible
epairs at the Fort.
The advantages of this arrangement be
came every day more apparent; particu
larly, when the Prelident, in explanaiior
jf hi 3 general inlirudtions, for preserving
tiu.r neutrality, declared, that no privateer,
which had been, or should b* fitted out.
within the United States, (hall be permittee
:o find an asylum in any of our ha, boars,
and th. t every prize, taken by fnch priva
teer, li.ould befeized, on her arrival with
i,i the j.irifdi£lion of the refpeftive dates,
for the purpofo of being restored to hei
owners, at the time of the cjpturc. Pay
ing a due attention to the President's De
llaration, you will perceive by the papers
whicli I have directed the secretary to de
liver, that the French privateer, called the
• itizen Genet, e.ne prize taken by her, ant
iour prizes, taken by the Little Democrat,
have already (and almofl all on one day'
required an inteipolition of the militia,
wh ch, mil .fs a party had been a finally or.
service, and a battery Creeled, at Meld -
Iflatid, could not have been procured with
funcient facility and dispatch. S<-me be
nefit has, likewise, I believe, been pro
dnceef by thcfe means, in relation to the
peace and order of the city, which, at one
! erioel, were so ihnoyecj, as to induce the
'nayor to ree]ueft a detachment of militia,
,11 aid ot the civil authority: And. upoi:
ihe whole, it is not improbable, that the
knowledge of our being prepaied to refill,
may happily contribute to prevent, an in
traction of'the neutrality cf our port."
NEW CONSTITUTION or FRANC&,
as decreed in June last by the
National Convention.
DECLARATION if thr RIGHTS of
MAN n'lilofth'j CITIZEN.
THE French Peoplt:, convinced that
the neglect and coatempt of the Natu
ral Rights of mail, are the folc caufcs oi
[Total Numb. 193 ]
misery in the world, have resolved to set
forth in a foiemn Declaration, those ("acred
a.tcl unalienable rights, to the end that, it
being in the power of every titizen to com
pare at all times the proceedings of govern*
ment, with the end of every social compact,
they may never fnffer themfeives to be op
prefied and debased M tyranny ; that the
people may ever have before their eyes i: e
baiis of their liberty and happincis ; the
magistrate, the extent' of his duly ; the
legflator, theo.-j- ft of his appointment. —•
With theTe views they proclaim in the pre
f'lue of t!!v Supreme Being, tlie following
Declaration of llie Ilights of Man and of
the Citizen.
Art. i. The end of all society is the
public happiness.—Government is ellab
liHied to feenre to man the enjoyment of
lis natural and imprescriptible rights.
2. These rights are equality, liberty, fe
turity. property.
3. All Bien are equal by nature, and iri
eye of the law.
4. The law is the free and foiemn ex
lrefiion of the general will ; it operates
equally on all. whether by pr/ite£ti.tg or
lunifliing ; itcan command only what is
ult and tifeful to society; and prohibit
»11!y what is hurtful.
5. All citizens are equally adniilfible to
niblic employments. As ee people know
10 other motive of preference in their
•ieftions than virtue and talents.
6. Liberty is the power which man pof-
Vfies of doing whatever is not hurtful to
:he rights of others. It is founded in na
;ure ; its bounds are marked by juliicc ?
aw forms its protection, and its. ntwral li
viits are defined in this maxim—l3o not to
others, what you would not with done to
yourfelf.
7. The right of eXpreifing thoughts and
opinions either through the medium oi the
press, or any other manner ; tie right of
quietly aflcmbhng ; the free exenife of
religious worship, cannot he prohibited*
The ncceffity of making mention of these
rights. suppose* the pretence or the recent
remembrance ot defpoliYtn.
8. Security is the protection rfTorded by
p.ciety t® e ich of it:, member;, tor the prw
i".TV»;i<»n«•( hi.- r>er!'«r:>.ri and prop.rty.
9. The law Should protect pi'.blh artl
individual liberty agnintt the Ojspreiiion of
iliofe who govern.
10. No one can be acrufed. arrefled or
Jetained, but in the cases laid crown in
the law, and agreeably to the forms pre
scribed. Every citizen summoned or ar
-et'.ed under the authority tit the law,
iiould immediat 1} obey; by re'bllance he
renders himfelf culpable.
11. Every proceeding against; a cit'zen,
nut of th' reach,Or without the JOl m pre
.cribedby the law,is arbitrary &*tyi annit al;
the person ar.ainlV w hoin it iliuuld be at
tempted to be executed by force, has the
right to renel it by.force.
12. Thclfe who fol.-.t, difpatf h.fign, ex
ecute, or cause to be executed. arbitrary
acts are guilty, and deserve puniflimcnt.
13. Every man being prefiimed innocent
until lie has been (tec! .red guilty. it it is
judged reccll'ary to ;ure!t him, ail ni.ne
. t ffary rigour in lei tiring him, fiiould be
t'everely prohibited by the law.
14. No one ihbiiid be judged and ptin
ilhed until he has been heard, or legally
appeal; d, and un'e:s he comes unoer a
law made public before the perperrat'u 11
of the crimes the law punishing ions
performed before it? tx ttence, istyranm
ial : the retrofpecTn e clTeft of any law is
criminal.
15. The law fiiould only decree punish
ments ftriftiy and ev cleill 1 y neccttary ; the
p.inilhment 1 lould be proportioned to the
crime, and uf.ful to society.
16. The right of property belongs to
every citir.eu ; it is the- right of enjoying
and difpoling at I.is will of lis goods, 1 re
venues', of tae fruits of his labour and in
dustry.
17. No species of labour, culture, or
commerce can be prohibited.
18. Everyman may bargain for his frr
vices an -J hr tin e , but he caa neither fell
liimfelf nor be fold. His peifon is not
alienable property. The law acknow
ledges no fci-vitUoe ; there can be but an
engagement to perform and to pay an
equivalent, between the mail who works
and his employer.
19. No per foil c.an he deprived of the
!eall portion of his property, without his
on! - t, unless the public uecefiities legally
afcertaiiied require it, and under condition
u s an ati" ' 1 : ite and previons coir.penl.ition.
20. No contribution can be required
except lor the general bench.• All c ti-TEens have a "igfct to concrr in fixing the
contribution;; to infpeit the expendi
ture of them, and to require accounts of
that expenditure.
21 Public succours are a sacred debt.
The society owes relief to unfortunate ci
tizens, either by furniihing them with
work, or by teeming the means of inbfilt
ence to those who are unable to work.
22 Inflruftion is rieceflary to all : soci
ety fhmild favour as much as poflible the
progress of public realon, and pla<e the
means of infhuilion within the leach of
every citizen.
23. The fociai compact consist; in the
endeavours of all to ailm e to each the en
joyment 3nd preservation ot his rights ;
this coropatt rclts upon the National sove
reignty.
24.- It cannot exifl unless the powers of
public functionaries are clearly deli id by
the law, and their refpou ! bility well fe
citred.
25. The sovereignty of the nation refide 1
in the people. It isindivilible, imprescrip
tible, and unalienable.
26. No portion-os the people can exer
cise the powers of the u hole people ; but
each section of the sovereignty afl'emblei
fha'il enjoy the right of cxpreffiug its jvil
with entire liberty.
27. Let any individual who should at
tempt to usurp the sovereignty be immedi
ately put to d.-ath by freemen.
28. The people have always the right
to revise, reform and change their conlti
tuticn. One generation cannot bind by it:
laws future generations.
29. Every citizen has nn equal right
to concur in making the law, and in ap
pointing his representatives and agents.
30. Public offices are essentially tempo
rary; tlicy c?nno be conlidered either a!
conferring aiilin&ion, or as rewards, but
as duties.
31. The crimes of the representative:
of the people or their agents Ihould nevet
go utvpunithed. No one has a right to af
tunie an inviolability that does not belong
to other citizens.
32.. The of presenting petition", tc
the depofftaries of public authority, can it
no cafe be prohibited, fjfpended or li
m ted.
33. Refinance to oppression is a confe
.quenee of the other rights of man.
34. Tne fociai body is opprefled, wher
one of its member; is opprefled. Each in
■dividual of the fecial body is oppreffec
when the fociai body is opprelfei
35. When the government violates the
right* of the people, infurreftion is to the
people and eadi portion of the people, the
molt faired of rights, and the moil inilif
jicnlible of duties.
[The Caujlitution in our next.~\
From the New-York Daily Adverti
ser.
Aleflrs. Ckilris ix Swaine,
The notice in paper, for the
Bon-conimiffioned officers and privates,
to meet last evening, having excited
fa ne alarm —please to insert the foilow
iM hie 1 was drafted, - and unani
jj, ufly agreed to.
New-York, Augurt 30, 1793.
May it please your Excellency,
THE no.i-cammiffioned officers and
privates of the New-York line, lateAme
r. hn arn:y, beg leave most refpe£tfully,
\ o address your Excellency, on the fubjefi
of our fufFeringscfur.ng the late war, and
t.ie m.ide ill vx hic b they have been repaid—
tha'-, having completed the revolution, we
retired to private life, to mix with our
fellow-citizens, with alfurances from your
Excellency, that we had served our coun
try faithfully, and our country would per
form all they had promjfed—bus ft'om. the
weakness of government at that time, ant
their resources being conducted by a finan
cier, we were obliged to take due-bill;
for our wages, when our diftrefl'es were
extreme, and compelled to alienate thofc
il':"-bills in the payment of public tax.es,
and private debts, at 2_/6 iii the pound, ant
made tributary to our atfigns by the fund
ing ast, inanett profitcf 12/ bin tire pound:
•and also, in the liiui of 13,250 dollars, an
nually, for offices of transfer, to" accom
modate thedealer in our due bills.
That as there remains in the hands ol
government, a small balance of the wage:
we so painfuliy earned, which we conceive
may be paid to the original creditor, with
out interfering with any system heretofore
adopted, and the documents neceflary tc
ascertain the amount of our wages, and
the sum government have paid by the fund
ing ast, and the balance that remains due,
are now, in existence.
Therefore, Sir, relying on your wifdorr
at the head of government, as we did on
your ability in the field, with a remem
brance of the confidence placed in your ho
nour during our ferviutde, and at the
diiroiution of the army, that a
fcued from impending ruin, will not leave
tjie debt of gratitude unpaid, nor so many
of our companions, worn by fatigue and
hard fighting, to solicit in the eve of lile,
the cold band of charity, in a country their
valour saved, and as the labours of the
gentleman, Mr. Madison, fecondcd by
IVlt. Jackson, \\ ho were dilinterefted, and
induced from principles of justice, in ad
vocatingtfie cstife of ?.n army, who hat!
clone and fuffered moie than any army
ever did for the freedom of the human
race, proved unfuccef.f ill : we solicit your
Excellency's advice and assistance at the
next meeting of C.ongrefs, to obtain the
remnant that remains unpaid on our cer
tificates. And 11 the mean time, subscribe
ourselves with aftVftioa and ell- c m,
Your humble servants.
His Excellency
Geo. Washington.
To be presented by Sergeant John Clark.
Signed, &c.
PHILADELPHIA.
Wednesday, September 4.
TheFrencli Republicansin formingtheii
lew Conftiiution, have net thought aPe
:laration of Rights a ftipcrfluous prelimina
ry to that work. This Declaration, 01
bill, consists of a preamble and 35 articles.
The following is a lilt of the Frencl
(hips of war that were laying ready sot
Tea in the port and department of Brest,
the latter end of Jnne - viz. lofliipsof 7.
guns —1 of 100 guns—of 11c —3 of So—
and 2 of 48, —in all 19 fail, well fitted anc
manned.
" The war of the allied powers agninfl
France (fays a letter from London) grow ;
daily more and more unpopulai. Those
powers are not likely to subdue the french :
and it is estimated that they have alread;
loft 40D,CC0 men. The failures among tit
commercial part of this kingdom are asto
nishingly great, and beyond any formei
period. Hie Brigands, or, Aristocrats, ueai
Nantz havr been completly defeated, anc
in two engagements have loft near 20,00 c
men. Al! is tranquil at Paris ; and Briflut.
and others of the Convention "who were
arretted, were treated so at their own re
quest."
A Spanidiprize fiiipfrom the Weft Indies,
with sugar and cotton is arrived at Beflon,
captured by the America, a French 74.
She is said to be worth 100.000 dollars.
When the America parted 'with her prize,
(lie went in chafe of fever al other vefiels
part of an Englifil ant) Spanifb fleet, among
which there was a profped of good pickings.
The privateer Roland, lately fitted out at
Bolion by French citizens, with a comniif
tion from the French Republic, has lent into
Bollon, her prize, the Engiifli fchoonei
Greyhound. An American was found 011
board the prize, acliniras pilot, who was
taken with a federal writ and committed
to jail for trial. The next day the priva
teer herfelf, came into Boston ; on board
of which three persons were fount!, said
to tie Americans —after examination, ihey
were also committed to jail, without bail,
to take-their trial at the next federal circuit
court, to be neid at Boflon the twelfth of
October next. The charge a Hedged ap ainft
tliefe persons is—aicli r ' and affiuing in
manning and fitting out veflels, and pira
tically and fclonioufly capturing vefTels of
nations, with whom the United Staj.es are
at peace.
Mr. P.iilas, of Peterfbnrgli, (in Russia)
has renewed the publication of Ilis Northern
Mi/ceilavy, and with a very valuable arti
cle—the voyage of t late F. G. Moller,
in the Frozen Ocean, undertaken by com
mand of the Empress, in 176 j. His ob
ject was to make the North East passage
from the ocean to the sea of Kamfchatka.
He did not make the paflage, or reach quite
so far north as 80 ; but received accounts
of neighbouring parts, and gave an inter
efling description of his encounter with
plains of ice and storms of snow in the
middle of July : with rigging iced, so that
it could scarcely be handled, and under
clouds, which the fun seldom penetrated,
to fljew the whole circuit of the dreadful
horizon. Lond. Pap.
We hear, Mr. Wigneli's new company
of Comedians, for th<? new Theatre in
this city, were to fail from London in the
fliip George Barclay, Capt. Collett, 011 or
about the 15th of July.
Letters from France fay that the taking
of Mentzand Valenciennes and the fuccef
of the royaiifts in France, were the whole
dependence of the combined powers, for
effecting a conntci-revolution this year
in the French Republic. The two former
events seemed extremely doubtful when
the last accounts can it way, and thole
who have been in the two places aifert
their capture to be impra£ticable, unless the
besieged themselves lend a helping hand.
The insurgents had-been every where de
feated, and ftattered ; and it was judged
that before October there would not be an
avowed royalist in the whole 84 depart
ments. <
According to Baltimore papers, the Bri
tifli 74 gun ship Orion is arrived at Hamp
ton road, Virginia, with the Fiench fii
vatecr schooner Sans Culottes, her prize.
We learn that Citizen Genet, ow ing to
the diflurbances on board the Jupiter, lias
ifftied a proclamation, ordering the crew,
with a few exceptions, 1 to leave the fliip
and repair to quarters provided for them
on fliore. This many did.
An attempt was made on the life of Ad
miral Cam bis, (not of Citizen Genet as
has been reported)in wMch he was wound- 1
ed in.the hand. The attempt was made 1
by feme of Hie crew of the Jupiter, a few
of which number have been apprehended.
General Galbaud efsaped from on bo-ard
the Jupiter on Friday )aft, and-took i-lie
rout to Philadelphia, efcorterl by a feu
of the crew of the Jupiter. A considera
ble number of" this crew, who were order
ed by the representative of the French na
tion, to repair to their quarters on shore
are travelling in a body armed towards Phi
ladelphia. i
It was currently reported when our in
formant left New-York. Saturday last
that Capt. Bompard would be appointee
commander of the Jupiter.
The Cerf, a tender of the French fleet
has taken into New-York a brig, as a prize
ioaded with rum.
Three hundred paJTengers are arrived it
the Ann from Londonderry. There is an
other passenger ship, we underhand in the
river.
Extract of a letter from Liverpool, datee
the 7th of July.
" On the firlV of June I failed from Bour
:leaux, on board the Ariel, captain Deca
tur, of Philadelphia, bounsl for St. Tho
mas's, in the Welt-Indies. On the iitl
of Jane, we were ttken by the brig Union,
i privateer of Liverpool, and carried intc
::.is port, where we arrived on the 24th.
They think to make a prize of the cargo,
but I think they cannot, as it belongs tc
the veilel. I hope it will not be long before
the ship will be clear—we have already loft
26 days to no purpose. So much for Neu
trality \"
Died, about the beginning of June lift
the celebrated Dr. Wdiiam Uobertjon
Principal of the Univeriity of Edinburgh
and one of the firft historians of the age
Ke died in his 72c! vear.
At Ainfterdam (lays a London paperlfoui
foreign loaus have lately been made. Out
of five millions of Dutch florins for Pi ufli!
—one of fix for the Emprefs —one of tue
for the Emperor—and one of three for the
United States of America, all at the intere!
of 6 pi" cent, f-'.ccpt tlr.a for America, foi
which fix and a half is f'.ipulated, during r
period of ten years, besides a premium o:
one per cent.
Mr. John Churchman is arrived in Lon
:lon, with recommendatory letters to tin
British government, from persons in theft
slates, refpefting hisfcheroe of the iViagre
tic- Variation, &c. It was feared his pro
posals cnuld not be attended to, the cause
of science, at present, being faciified tc
that of war.
ExtraSs rf Foreign European News ; t
July 5. [From London Papers
" Mr. Pitt lias proposed a tax upnr
knives and forks,"in order to help to sup
port the expenlive war the English natioi
is now engaged is. He has been warmh
nppofed, upon the principle that it will hoi
e productive,knives and forks being al
110ft out of demand in England, the people
laving nothing left to eat."
'tjohn Frost, I'.fq; an attorney at law
'ias been sentenced in the court of king':
bench, to fix months imprifoi.ment in New
gate, to ftaxd in the pi Lory one hour, ar,c
10 find surety for good behaviour tor five
years.—This man's crime, as stated in the
indictment, was faying—' lam for equa
lity; I'fee no reason why one man Ihoule
not be upon a footing with another —it i;
every man's birthright ; and that the Ei-g
---lifli constitution was a bad one, in faddlinj
the nation with a king."
" A treaty has taken place between the
kings of England and Sardinia, whereby
they agree to make a common cause ir
the war with France—the kingof Sardini:
to keep on foot an army of 5.0,000 l-.itn
during the war ; the king of England to
fend into the Mediterranean a fleet.to as;
as circuuiftances dire£t ; and to furniih the
king of Sardinia with 200. cool, a year,
while/aid" war lasts—the king of England
not to make peace with France without
refiiurtion of- that par; e>!' the Sardinian
tlomiuions, (Savoy,) now pofl'eil'ed by the
French, «1c.."
The following is from a Livefpool paper
of July 4.
" Hanover, "June 5.
" The States of Holland leave charged
their amballadors to propofo to the com
billed powers rtgociatious fur a peace.—
Their refohrion taken on tile 21 nil- pur
ports. that'their high inightineiies flattei
ihemfeivcs, to give the lneift convincing
proof ot their detire and readiness to ope
rate in th'ofe measures which are to he
taken by the belligere nt powers agaii)fl the
common enemy ; that at the fame time
they will also take care nut to involve
themselves more than their strength will
allow ; that tor this reatbn, they wifli ioi
the formation of a congress, to i.gree both
011 the measures which the future effective
operations of the war may require l , anel tc
fce«nse to a right undei (landing with regarel
to the proposals and overtures that inigh:
be made by France to accomplifn a termi
nation of the war."
' General Dumourier, on his arrival :;
Oflcnd, was arreflcd by the express ordei
of the Prince de Cobourg, 011 account ot
the vindication eif the Revolution of i"/80,
which he had publiihed at lii ullcls.
' The mot> finding, for ti c firfi time, tfia£
tlieir enmity againfi: this > fficer w as fanfli.
oned irotn authority, would have torn him
to pieces, if he hud not thrown himfeH ot>
the generous protection of two British offi
cers of the 37th regiment
' The liege of Mcntz commenced the
16th of June. On the night of that day, jeeo
workmen were employed in entrenching,
covered by Soco Hoc ps; but unfortunately
owing to the darknefx of the night, one co
lumn of t!«eAti!lrians fired upon another, I y
which f.xty men were killed on both fide.-,
and tin- wlu;!e retreated in confufton. On
the night of the 17th, however, the work
ing sri the trenches was renewed, ansl
without any material interruption front
the garrison.
' The mistake committed at the opening
of the trenches before Mentz, by two Au
(irian regiments, firing upon each other, it
is (aid, lias so disgusted his I r ruffian ma
ieftv, that he i« preparing to take a journey
10 Berlin; and tine D like of Brunlwick is
going to set off for Poland, to superintend
the new divilion of teriitory in that coun
try.'
' The National Convention, on the
of June, appointed" Citizen Alexander
Beauharnais, commander in chief oi the'
army of the Rhine, to be minister of war*
Citizen Deftottrnelles to be minister of
public contributions ; and approved of the
nomination, by the executive council, cf
general Houchard to lucceed gen. Beau
harnais in the army of the Rhine!
Chr.rlejion, Aug. 15.-The brig Thomas,
enj t. Pi yrinant. of 1 demon, Jj. C. arri
ved hi re vci'erday. in 17 days?from Cape
Francois. In her tame one hundred w hue
palfengers (among whom are M. D'Afias.
colonel of the n gin ent of tie Cape, find
M. de Graife; foil of the late admiral de
Grafle) and Ifervants.- On the3othr.lt.
the bi ig was boarded by the prirateer (loop
Sufasu.-.h, capc. Tucker, of New-Provi
dence. After having piratically plnnderf <!
thife til fated ;t::flergers, but jnfl cfcaped
fn 111 iiiaflacre and the de!lruclive elfint • t,
of me. ey and plate to the value of fo,oco
crowns and upwards, together with 35
prime (laves, tiiefe base icbhers difmil'td
the brig to proceed on her voyage.
fl/Jtim&re, Augtdt 2°. The French
frigate the Aftren, and the armed French
brig tlie Expedition, (arrived in this
port yeOerddy) having cinifed for a long
time oft the Gonaives, have facilitated
the entry of that bay to many American
vessel; ; and hive, 011 (heir paUitge to this
continent, re captured an American vefi I,
which has lince reached her place of desti
nation. She had fix Englifl'inen 011 board,
who were made pi doners. The Aflre.i
has aifo taken an European fliip, in b; Haft,
which fi:e broi?; lit into this port. Kcr
< rew, tw elvc in numbei, afe kept pr ifoi.ci s
on board the A Urea and Expedition.
'The Britifli fli-p Quern, r.f t)8 ; nr.r, the
Orion, and another - ; 4 with three frigates
and a Hoop of war, : re craifirg cfl'thc j.e
lawareand Chetapsake hay cud. heildes
tie privateec Stirs C Unites. the Orion las
taken the Induflry, a French privateer,
fitted out at Baltimore.'
Accounts from the weflward pr some
colour to information lately received frcm
Niagara, by way of Albany, that there is
every reason to foppofe the treaty new in
agitation, will not take place, nr-lef- the
An ei icar. commifitoners 1 onfent to the Ohio
being the tcu enry line. it. 1.. a tic , m »
great degree elUblili ccj. that the Bfttilh
are prcji iiinjr'to fettle a new pr< lince oil
the north-w ell of the Ohio, and • I r cna
niards une.her on the fonth-weft, with New
Madrid to be,the capital.
_The following Anecdote is broiifht by
one of our nefiU from the \V. Indies: —
That Gapt. Prince of Boston failed irom
Guadaloupe in company with a French pi i
vateer brie—that he was afterwards met
by a Britilli privateer, w ho, began to exa
mine him, and overhauj his cargo, for
Frendl'propeity; ti: pt. Prince afiurcd the
I eopie mat he had none, and tl.at inflead.
of detaining then'.(elves with him, they
might find a valuable prize/ In a hrij! v hie In
he pointedour to them, which h' knew to
be French property, both veli'el and cargo
—that on this the privateer emitted him,,
and made lor the 1 renchmar— thai a }harp»
conflict erifued, in which several w ere kil
led and wounded on both fides, bvt that
in the end the Frenchman carried his anta
gonist into Guadaloupe. Captain Prince
was afterwards carried into St. Kitts by
another privateer.
A hurricane took p'ace .at Sr. Fuflatius
and at St. Kitts oit Monday evening the
12tli of lalt month, and continued until
nine the next morning with unabated and
violent fury, fve vef.els went on 11 ore at
St. Eufiatius, a fid tifieen at St. Kitt . mo(t
iy American?. Ihe h.ip Liberty. Captain
Miller, and fliip Aurora, Captain In rjie,
belonging to this pert, ire amongthe lum
ber. We hi ar 110 lives v ere 1011. Captain
Amory's two infamous privateei* were
bloy.i; off: others lay, wiecktd.
The f<'-'owing extract cf a letter front
New \ ork may be depended en au
thentic—
'• Galbaud, after having made ttfe of
the bsli.lt u.cat.i, in corrupting tite trc\yof the Jupiter, mi fled others by his exam
ple, rendered the French forces of no et
ft-a, ansi their shy here odious by encou
raging i.ifuborUinition, has crowned hi;,
batencfs by flying- He has chofer. tor lit*
aid-de-camp Conscience, a corporal cal
led Bonne, who was impriloned lor torn
months at the Cape, upon liie 11 que!t o:
his fellow.foldiers, —-and a boarfwaiu, con
demned to iron- for having stolen ami fold
a cable at Norfolk. Warrants have beer.
iii'necl to arrest him.
The. Jupiter is now in fafe hands. In;
crew of the Ambuscade i-- on board, .-.ml
the lumber will be completed v >.'h chosen
men 011 whom d'e Republic rr.ay d- pent
for the defence of that fine la p. Iho fac
tious, the traitors, and hri'iers !i:ive tlie'.i
labour for th tr money, and their attempt;
arecrowned with fhameand mortification.
The (loop Peggy, capt. Eaf'con, is arri
ved at New-York from Cape Francois.
Capt Eaftor. was boarded, hours afcei
iie left the Cape, by one Harvey, of Ber
muda, in the !U>-:p Ann, of 8 guns, w sco
robbeti the palfengers, in number, of
5,500 doll„r~. and about 30 Joes worth <>i
t ,ble a.id teaspoons, \\ uh every tiling ot
value they could lay their hands on. So
preedy w:;s thin Harvey 'or plunder, that
he even examined i\tr tub-
A large Dutch (hip, from.Euftatla, bounc,
to Arafterdam. has been carriei'. into an
Irish port by a Londop letter of mark -hip.
Shehad previot lly captured by the
French privateer L.'F.ii dire, who took out
ofiier nine chelts oi gold : ud, 200 tons o.
ivory, and every other article of \a.i.e.
Several rernonlUance were yefterdav
Jirelonteil to the P-nnfylvan-a H»ufe oi
.Repreferitatives, praying a repeal ot tin
Canal and Turnpike laws. Ine remon
strance againlt tl).? incorporated company
cf the Sulqtiehannah and Schuylkill canal
is signed by seven hundred and ninety-oni
freeholders ; that against the Germantowi
turnpike company, by upwards ot oec
thousand.
f From the Spar'Jli iflar.A if Trinidadn.,
June 28. ]
" The Ferme arrived here two days ago
from Martinique, and has brought 25:!
aridocrats of all forts and fizrs, who arc
in the utmost distress; some of them with
out a second fhift of cloaths. and ma";
with not a dollar in their pockits; uha:
will become of them, God only knows
They make very free with the character o
the Enjlilli, particularly with their gene
ral and' admiral, who. they fay, are a fe
of the E-igliih f s, and old women ; tha
the (hips were afraid to go within gunlho
of the most infi-nificant fort'.—Whethei
these accounts are well founded or not, I
< a mot fay, but I hope, for the honor o.
OI I England, they are falfe."
The whaling lh'j> Liberty,Capt. Church
ill, is arrived at Providence (R. 1) fron
the Cape of Good Hope. She was bo;:\<
to Dantzick, and had been captured by :
jßritilh crijifer ; but Capt. C hurchill Bar
tteyed her, and conducted her to Provi
dence.
80/ ion, Aug. 27.
Yeflerday it was currently reportet
Jiere. that a v.eflel had arrived at Wifcal
let from White Haven, in England, whicl
brings accounts later than thole recc.i\et
from Bourdeaux and Madeira, the purpori
of which is. that there had been a fevert
battle fought at cr near Dunkirk, betweei
the combined armies and French forces
the former of which had met with so se
vere a repnlfe, that it was supposed the)
would not be in a situ ition to enter toe
field again for some months—repoi ta I;
fays, that the Duke of York is very baciij
wounded, his equipage taken from him,
and that three or' die br!iveil generals n
their army had fell in the battle.
On Sunday lalt arrived at New-Yor.c.
the P.iip Good Intent, from Bri'tol, aLettei
of Marque, 14 guns, takei) a prize on the
3 I of Augtift, by the (loop of war Mar
seilles, S3 gun's. Tiie F.nglifh (hip made ..
vigo ous reliftance, till her forem .It w*
carried overboard, when she fiirrendered,
having the captain and eight men killed
and twenty wounded. On the fame day o.
the taking of the Good Intent, the ilai
1 -••■lies captured 5 other vefl'els, off th<
Weflern Ides; among which is aSpaniu
Ihip of immense value.
1c is laid that 70 fail of velfels have beet
captured by tl.-j Marseilles and one othei
privateer, and are deftiiied to differen
ports in the United States.
The fame (lav arrived at New-\ ork, am
anchored in the North river, abreait the
Jupiter, the privateer fchooncr Carmag
nole, one of those proscribed by the go
vernment, as illegally fitted out in the L •
nited States. —Same day failed the l i encl
sloop of war Favourite, on a cruise.
The brig Endeavour, Paddock, is ari ivcc
at New-York from French Hifpaniola.
He was taken near Cape Nichola by an
ErelVfh privateer out ot St. \ incents, who
Hit 01 board a prize-master and three men,
and ordered her for New-Providence.
Capt. Paddock, afterwards re-took his
ye lie 1, and is arrived at New-York with
the four thieves.
The Englilh brig Chile lately arriv
ed at New-York, prize to die Carmagnole,
was delivered up Istt Saturday to her former
owners as an unlawful prize.
The American (hip Jay was taicen in
jmc, aiiii" iiie mouth of the EngliJh .an-
nel, By the Ore ties (loop of war, and car
ried into Plymouth-; It was expected she
would be condemned, as having a French
cargo on board —-in the opinion of the cap
tori.
On Sunday night last a Veffet arrived at
New-Yotk, in 36 days from London. She
London paper to July 25- C.onde
was taken before /he left London, the gar
rison '>ei : i/. ft.irved our. Mr. Childs, who
can" 1 111 illt'""""", inform?, that it was th -
genera: opinio ; the combined army could
not furmit hong, '"1 'heir present lituation,
lor v. aiit of provifiois and forage.
Extract of a letter from New-York, dated
the 30th lilt.
" There has been a plot diicovered here
vefterd.iy, which has laved several lives---
Mr. fjt'iiet, admiral Cambis, and alt the
principal officers, were to hive tieen nfiUlh
-11 a ted j the atteir.pt was made upon the
r-.o former, and the admiral defended
himfelf with his cane, ar.t lud two finders
nea ly cut off—This happened yelteiday
morning. It wa concerted 011 board o*
the Jupiter, and some Frenchmen from
the Cape, who are subsisted here by the
community. One Frenchman who ftrv.cK
die admiral is in jail, and confefled the
whole ir.atrr; papers are also tound in
iown which confirm it. No doubt Galbaufl
has Wen at the bottom <>f it, and deludec
these poor men by representing Genet ant
the Lhiefofficers as aristocrats.' (
By an ExpreO arrived Yerterday at the
War-Office, from the commissioners so
tr.'atinjr with the Indians north of tin
Ohio, we learn, that they were not aah
even to effect a meeting with the body o
the hoft.le Indians, who were affemolec
at the Rapids of the Miami river wbicl
runs into Lake E. ie. i
The I ndians, by depvftatioil infilled upoi
the Ohio as the boundary between then
and the United States. But as to ex ten
live a concefiion was inachniffible, a:.t! Ik
1-elaxa ion of this demand being indicated
lhe commissioners, who bad been waiting
at the mouth ot Detroit river 1 rom the 211
of July, left that place on the 17th ot Au
gutt, and arrived at Fort-Erie 011 the 2.V
---<>f the fame month. The tribes deteriiiin
ed for war, are the Wyaiidots, Oeiawares
Shiwanefe, and M mis ; although it i
underltood, that a conliderable portion evei
of those were tor peace. It is alio under
ltood, .that the Six Nations, incltldiPf
Capt. Brandt, and his Mohawks, 'troiigi;
urged the holtiie Indians' to makepeace.
Yesterday arrived here a French Indi;
n.ip, La Vilie de L'Orient, mounting 2:
guns, in 5 months from Bengali after niac
in.. the Azores,llie spoke .p. A.ii rtc.in cap.
tain who gave her the fir it into -111.111011 o
the war; on which flic bore away for th<
continent of A merit a This Ihip is (an
to be worth halt a million IttrKng.
s-„ lIV ,> of a letter from a person in Phila
delphia, to his friend i Maryland.
" Hiving fufficiently relied my!- It aftei
my arrival in this city, I divided the re
maining days assigned for my ltay here, int<
jqu.d divide xl,, that I might be clear ol
=mbarrairmei:t at the time ot tny intendec
ilep.ii ture. In the tiift place togratily m\
:uliolity, I wer.t to fee Mr. PeA!.e'>
Museum, a repofitoryof once-livingthings,
tircftvvtd Jo as to rsjeir.bis lift'.
The room so called is about 50 feet
long, and 20 high. On the floor, and near the
ioor the American Buffaloe {lands in its
huWand natural shape ; this aborigine ot
the weltern hemisphere may properly be
called a substitute for t'.e Cow : the tam
imr and domiciliation of which, is one 01
the greatest defideratums of the inhanitar.t;
in the Trans-Allegheny regions ot North
America, as it can fiipport itieli in t,.e
winter season, without the help of man.
Yarn fptin from the wool of this animal
was produced by Mr. Peaic, and cannol
be diftingui(hed from that mude of fl.eep's
wool.
44 Every portion of this spacious apartmen;
exhibited ohjeas to excite wonder and ad
miration, these, believe me, tir, are undef
fci ibabie, von mutt fee them, then, I e„x
pea you'll fay with Pie, " I mult fee them
aTai'n " for it is like Horace's fiiiilhed piece
n? poetry, '' Jecies repttita placabit."*
" I i any part of this room, a vast varie
ty of monsters of the earth and main, and
fowls of the air are seen, in perfta pre
servation and in their natural fit ape ami
order. Several of these cunohties are
from the Pacific ocean. Over them are
fufpetided 50 portraits, beingcomplete like
-11 elies of American and French-patriot ■-
Col. Smith, capt. Barney, and many others
of these are from Maryland.
MAt t i le further extremity of thi3 room
are to be seen a great colleaion of the
bones, jaws, and grinders of the lncogm
tiim, or non-delcript animal, royal tyger,
fliarks, and manv other land and marine
animals,hoftile to the human race jlhield.v
bows, arrows, petrifactions, Indian and
European fcalps,&c. &c.
" 1 was then conduced to the grotto,
which resembles 'a place cut out oi the
solid rock, the impending precipices in
teeming disorder, readv to drop down, the
rocks apparently forming shelves tor the
convenience of the deligner.
" t'tußi thisl'aon. i was recjuefted to en-
ter aa apartment black and
spotted snakes are confined in cales, cn
clofed with wire and glass. The rattle
snake as 1 son as alarmed, (hook her rattie,
as it cautioning 115 not to approach. Mr.
l'eae opened a b'jx in whicli two black
runners were confined, each about four
or live feet longs one °f these reptiles is
very tame, which Mr. Peaie took out as
unconcerned as it* it had been dead* J
Would rtoc do the like for the wealth x>t
Oroefus , but, perhaps Mr. Peaie never
law a bl;uk runner enraged and combating
with a dog for its life, as I have. Ihe
ierocity i>f this species of snakes would
probably damp his too sanguine aiTurance
jf inviolability ; nay, he permitted the
reptile to touch tiis cheek, and it inclined
to mtwiiiL- itl'eif round his neck.
" Eagles, owls, baboons, monkeys, a fix
looted cow, &c. &c. were (ten in the yard
iiul flable.
" Upon the whole I mtift declare in fa-
i T or of travelling by ftuges, rather than
:he old method of tiling the f.imily equip
■ge of fervauts, &c. when business cails
i person to this city, where so many curi
ilities may be seen at a trilling expeace,
a inch cannot be otherwise ealily attendee!
:o. I will give you an account land
md water Stages, to and from Philadelphia,
n a future Tetter."
' N- B. The expense of feeing this Mufe
uni is.,but one fourth of a dollar.
* It•willpleaje, repeat it even ten times.
From the New York Journal, &c.
IK the year 1788 eviery one knew how
r.i define an anti-federalilt—thofe in oppo
fitioil to the new conflitution fell under that
ciefcription. The constitution once adopt
ed, tlie appellation (hotlld have ceafe-d—
that not being the cafe, we will enquire
who are at present delignated by the epi
thet; instead of regarding it as a term ot
reproach, every true lon of Columbia will
glory in it.
A modern anti federalifl, then, is one
who is lincerely attached to the conflituti
on of his country, which has proceeded
from the people ; but he is difgufled with
ail administration; who have nothing lef
in view than the good of their constituents,
whose servants they are.
He fees with infinite regret, that not
w rhltanding the burthens under which our
commerce groans, the revenue is exhaulieil
in large and ulelef- salaries. and squandered
on a Inift of speculators, who receive fix
per cent, per an aim for a debt which coli
them 2/6 in the pound.
He contemplates with equal regret, that
instead of paying off the national debt,
everv ingenuity i > exerted to saddle us with
it forever. With these ideas of the funding
system, lie execrates it as the mod perni
cious for the liberties of the people whirl
human ftibtlety could have devifrd—Ths
n.fluence occalioned by it cannot tail tc
terminate in the deltruftion of a republi
-an government, which he verily believe:
a . the principal object in view by more
than one who had an agcncy in the framing
of it.
He comp'ains loudly, that after so long
1 peace, not a lliip of war been built—
1 town fortified—nor any other meafnre:
idopted to protect our sea-ports and cum
merce from the insults of those who chuff
: ) make them the object ot their_depreda
ion.
He feels warmly attached to the Frenci
•evolution —He confidefs our generoui al
lies as engaged in the cause ot mankind, iS.
deprecates, ts the worlt of evils, a wai
with the only free nation on earth, whicl
lie verily believes will be the confequentt
of certain public measures now pursuing.
While with his whole foul he withes tha 1
France may crulh her foes, he fees, witl
an honest and just indignation, the infolen
treatment we submit to from Great Bri
tain. They have forts in our territory
and we submit to the indignity. The;
plunder our trade, and we dare not evei
remor.ftrate. He thinks tie present a fa
vourable time to compel that haughty na
tion to iiften to the dictates of reason, an<
to comply with her treaty ; but he nuul
(cars that the weighty arguments of Bii
:iih\oi:i, will deprive 11s of the op
portunity of a\ enging these insults offeree
:o our national sovereignty,
He detells the corruption of the Britifr
1 ovtrument, ahd v ilh horror, a con
nection with a nation whose liberty is a
name, and whose exar pie would be per
nicious to an infant republic.
He abhors a tory, whether of home or
"oreign growth : and particularly withes
:hat a speedy stop may be put to the impor
[ation of those of Brit'lh and cot Li Ih pro
duction.
Lastly—a modern anti-federalifl is sin
cerely devoted to the v. eilare and prospe
rity of his country, and although public
.aeafures wear an unfavourable aspect, he
hopes thegenius of America will yet inter
fere and protect her offspring, againll the
too open attempts of an aristocratic faction.
10 erect a monarchy 011 the ruins of free
dom.
After this impartial delineation of an an
ti-fedcralift, no man will dlfriain the ap
pellation, unless he is alio alhamed oi be
ing chlfed among the
SONS of LIBERTY.
fXTRAC T.
THE United States of America, are?
pofieficd of more natural advantages, lor
I'rade and Commerce,than any other na
r ion on earth. On the close of the late_
v. ar, they fondly anticipated a fucceilion of
tliefe benefits for succeeding years. i haC
ri;ey liave not been realized, is said to be
awing to the imbecility of government.
Vet not one of the great advant.-ges, that
was expe&ed to arise from tlie federal go
vernment, was so fondly expected as tom
nercial prosperity. This idea we have
r omid delnfive. The government of Grea"
Sritain, liath received more advantage
Vorn this event, than her mod sanguine
riends could expect. Without any treaty,
lie has eftablifliments in all the Oates, and
iy the advantages of a similarity of habits
md of language, {he draws to her coders
he wealth while (lie effectual- •
y prevents our intercourse with her islands,
and puts every cblttuftion to impede -our
;rowth and prosperity as a nation ; among
which are, the retention of our welteTn
softs, and theharaffing our frontiers, by rr>
jredatory war, both' diflrefiing and enor
noufly expcnlive.
" Spain, who neVer wifhedour profperi
y, and is naturally inimical to the name
>f a republican, has uniformly b£en cold
md torpid. Her conduct with regard to
he river Miffilippi, evinces her contempt
if our weakness and inability, to avenge
jur wrongs. Perhaps 110 new country ever
'nperienced more incumbrances, than the
:itizens of America have on the vvekcrn
waters." r
ORLANDO'S FLIGHT.
ON prancing fleed, with fpunge at
From town behold Orlando fly ;
Camphor and Tar where'er he goes
Ti.'infe&ed lhafts of death defy—
Safe in an atmosphere of {link,
No do£tor gets Orlando's chink.
'Twas right to fly ! for well I ween
In Stygian worlds, by Jove's decree,
No blushing bloflom e'er was seen,
Or running brook, or budding tree :
No splendid meats, no flowing bowls
Smile o'er the meagre feafl of fouls.
No sprightly songs, to banifli grief.
No balls, the Stygian Beans prepare.
And he that fed on rounds of beef,
On onion lliells fliall fatten there—
Monarchs are there of little note,
And Oaefar wears a ragged coat.
Chloes on earth, nf air and (liape,
Whose eyes deltruy'd poor love-lorn
wights,
There lower their topsails to the cap,
Rig in their booms and fur! their kites :—•'
Where Cupid's bow was never bent,
What lover aflis a maid's consent ?
All this, and more, Orlando knew,
fin Lucian is the story told)
Took horfe—ciapp'd spurs—and off hd
flew
In no d d doctor's lift enroll'd—
Blame not Orlando if he fled,—
So little 'j got by being dead.
Aug. 3 t.
For the National gazette.
A new way to tell an old lie.
COME, fays King—JufticeJay,
Let's return —come a\Vay.
I long to retail thij fine flory,
If true—it is well—
If not, it will tell-
To a whig—like inyfelf—or a tory.
By the aid of your name,
I'll raise a hell flame ;
For stockholders, fools, and addrefiers
Each township will vie,
To confirm the d d lie.
And we, fliall be gorg'd with carefTes.
Now seriously. King :
I don't like this thing :
It never will bear litigation
Give me leave—for I think—
If we (tir, we fliall slink :
Thro' the honefter part of the nation.
And Rufus. fays Jay,
Can we pol'itive fay ?
We.ourselves, everheard such a word,fir:
No—(ays King—what we doubt
We may scatter about
As the slut sweeps l;er house of at — S : f.
At Private Sale,
To be fold a LOT of LAND,
IN Tredyffrin township, Chester county, distant
from Philadelphia about iS miles, and from
Lancaster road about containing TWEN
TV-fIVE ACRES. Of this Ibt about 8
acres onl> are cleared—the reft is woodland, con
fiding chiefly of young Chefnut Timber.There a;c
on the prepiifes a Lug Duelling House, Weaver's
Shop, a double Log Barn, a young Bearing Or
chard of 50 Trees, abput 3 acres of watered
Meadow, a good Soring,' and a never-failing
Stream of Water, running from a spout n<*ar the
door. F«otn its situation and the great advan
tage cf raising the water, it is thought to be an
r)igib»e place tor a Diftillcr, Tanner, Currier of
Mallier. For tenns apply near the prcmifes t<*
MORDECAI MOCRE*
September 3, 1 79}•From the New-York Journal,
To Mejrs. JAY and KING.
YOU thought proper, gentlemen, quit,
ting your high and dignified stations,
to come forward, on the twelfth of thii
month, in the public p pers, with th<
.following very extraordinary publication :
" For .he N. York Diary.
" MefTrs. Prin'ers,
" CERTAIN late publications rendei
it neceflary for us to authorise you to in
form the public, that a report having
reached this city from Philadelphia, thai
Mr, Genet, the French minister, had said
that he would appeal to the people fron
certain deciln ns of the President ; we wen
asked, on our retu n from that place
whether he had made such a declarator
—we answered, that he had, and ive aid
mentioned it to others, authorising then:
to fay, that we had so informed them.
JOHN JAY,
RUFUS KING."
Having descended from your car of pow
er and pre-eminence, and voluntarily adopt
ed the refpedtable title of tell tales, permil
me to remind you, that we Hand exaftlj
on the fame footing of plain un. ided cili
Zens, wiih this only difference, that, while
you have enveloped your tale in difgraccfu
tiarknefs and dtfigning obfeurijy, I fhal
endeavor to express rr.y observations or
both you and it, in a plamnefs of diciioi
and simplicity of (lile, of which no one
can avoid underfianding the true meaning,
and I will venture at leall to hope, ver)
few will disavow the propriety of—except
—the enemies of republicanism—the wel
wishers to the combined armies in theii
nefarious warfare—'.he fvcophants of pow
er—the admirers of dark envenomed fcur
rility—the timid detdlers of manly open
nefa and generous franknefs—with fom<
few others of your bed, warmed and moil
partial friends and dependants.
Before I enter into particulars, permit
me farther to observe generally, that at £
me ting on the last ele&ion, for firft ma
gillrate of thin ft; te, I said so much ii
your favor, Mr Jay, as to offend, in ;
very high degree, all my friends who wen
present, and were opposed to your filling
that high and re eitahle ofiice
It is with pleasure too, I confefs, tha
I have read, with inexprcffible delight;
many of your charges to grand juries, ir
your present dignified station of chief jus
tice of the United States.
The services you have rendered to thi;
country, I will admit to be great, noi
ought one adl of petulant turbtilency tc
obliterate them from a grateful heart ; anc
I iincerely wifn, for your fake, that ther<
was only one ast of that nature to com
plain of.
Having found but very few good King#,
in my perusal of either sacred or profant
history, I cannot fay, Mr. Rufus King,
that your name has created any allurements
on try mind to warp my sentiments ; and
not having the honor of your acquaintance,
but in a very flight degree, 1 mult rell
contented with my knowledge of your ge
neral character, in reflecting, that I have
heard much more said in tavor of youi
stern integrity 33 a man, or your fhininj
abilities as an orator, than of your decided
firmnefs as a republican.
Having ptemifed thus much, with res
pest to yourfeives, let me next view, I wi-i
not fay wi h a friendly, but with an im
partial eye, the features of. the untimely,
unnatural, ill begotten, and yet apparently
very favouiite child of your conjoined
; though appearances are at present
againd it, the drooping head of the dar
ling infant may yet be supported for some
time, through your parental care, and the
unabated attention of its friends and ad
nvirers ; for I have not, since its birth,
converted with a torv, who did not speak
of it with rapture, and seemed desirous of
becoming its nurse.
Do not despair, gentlemen—This vir
tuous and refpe&able class of men (for
they are not all citizens) have become your
firm, your established, your unalterable
friends, and will certainly continue so until
yoa alter your present system, Br I have
heard some of the warmed of them fwenr,
"By the love thev bore to this country ana
its eonflitution," that they would willingly
defend the legitimacy of your and tiieii
darling, at the vifque of their lives and
fortunes ; exclaiming, with a degree ol
joy bordering on phrenzy, that it carried
in its front such insignia-os wisdom anc
design, as to leave no doubt that from the
fame stock, th:re would fpnng out oihei
branches, vvtich, in process of time, would
amend all the evils in our government,
and plare us in that deledtable situation,
spoken of by the great and good Edmund :
Burke with foch heavenly (and, therefore,
to the base born) unintelligible rliapfody—
a situation which, for m;-.ny years, they
have fpr.red no pains to bring about, and
which, but for the ignorance and rustic
perverfenefs of the <whigs, they would long
ago have accomplished.
With what Chriltian meekness and be
coming fortitude mult you, gentlemen,
have behaved for some timejpaft, to have
thus converted your formerly greatell and
mod relentless enemies, ict» your firmeit
and mod determined friends.
You, no doubt, 1 ope, that you will not,
by this condudt, lose one of your old ad
herents.
Time will evince to the world, whether
:hefe hopes are, or are not, delulive.
Perm t me now, gentlemen, to inform
you in what manner I intend to examine
:his your very uncommon product on —
ill. I will endeavour to exhibit to our
"ellow-citizens the original view you mo!i
probably entertained, v. hen you firfl ven
ured to whisper the Tale, and deduce :n
---erences therefrom to Ihew, whether your
licencing from your r; fpedtive high fla
.ions, and volunteering in this low, secret,
ind subtle way, was ihe effedt of a patri
otic condefcention, or an intriguing im
pertinence.
2d. The quantum of good and evil which
las already, and dill wi 1 be molt likely to
efult from your publication.
3d. The very ankward situation in which
7011 have placed both the Prefider.t and
Vlinrfter.
4th 1 shall make some observations in
:Omparing Mr. Jay's fondnefs for receiving
iddrtffes, when dedicated to the real Chief
fullice of the United States, and -would le
Glovernor of this Hate, with his aversion
o that proposed to the Minifterof Franoe,
»hen it »as barely in embryo.
I (hall at present bid you adicn, gen
:!emer>, for a few days, with an afTurance,
hat it will be totally contradidtory to my
intention and dc-sign, if I either afft rt a
"aldiood, or put it in your power to fay
:hat I am
A FLATTERER.
New-York, August 27, 1 793.
Extract Jrem the Minutes of ihe Katior.al
Convention.—June 4.
A letter was read from the commifiion
■rs of the convention at Niort, near Ro
:hel|e, dated 28th May, by which it ap
peared that fucce'.s had itill attended the
;ims of the insurgents j but that affairs
pegan to look bet'er.
" Our army" f.iy they, " which the
lay before yeilerday was composed of 1200
rien only, is now more than twenty thou/and
trong. When firll Informed of our dan
ger the "neighbouring • dillridts rose in a
jody to cur alliltance ; one of them, the
liftridt of Mille, has not a single man left
it home. But the greatest part of these
patriotic citizens are pofiefTed of no arms
>ut their zeal for the Republic."
They further mention the arrival of 400
ps the hufTars of the Legion des Alps, and
icoo or 1200 infantry from Poitiers ; Ge
leral Biron was also arrived; and theimme
liate attack of ttie rebels was determined
)n as soon as a fufficicnt force (hould arrive
The departments of Cantal and Lozere
sere in a Bate of infurreftion. Thearmyof
he rebels in Lozere confuted of 8000 men.
June 24 It appears that the infurgent3
pad hurt their canfe by the'r appetite for
plunder. The People of the neighbouring
iepartments were violently exasperated a
jainftthem, Their army began to dwindle,
py a great number having fa'let off from
hem. Five thousand had already left them.
June 26. The committee of pub ic fafe
:y laid before the convention the answer of
general Wimpffen to the minifltr of war.
[ Ie had been ordered to Paris togiv} an ac
;ount of what had palled at Caen. Wimpf
:en in reply wrote that he would go to
Paris at the head of 60,000 men
A decree of accusation was palled againfl
Wimpffen.
June 29. Intlte fitting of the convention
of the 28th June, a let'er was read from ge
neral Biron :—This letter announces a bril
liant vidtory gained over the rebels in the
department of la Vendee. As it appeared
the intention of the insurgents to make a
movement towards St. Maixent and Niort,
general Weftermann was detached to in
tercept them. This officer immediately
gave battle to the rebels, routed their
army, took a great part of their artillery,
ijo head of cattle, and all tlieir (teres.
'I hey have nlfo been defeated in fiveral
other places. Ihe patriots of Nantes have
repulfcd them and put 400 of them to the
bayonet.
Thegarrifon of Valenc ennes in a sortie
defiroyed several of the batteries of the
besiegers.
In a letter from general Birojy, read the
27th, dated the 22d of June, it appears
that a detachment under general Chalbos,
and brigadier-general Salomon had defeat
ed a party of the insurgents, killing 200
of them and taking 20 prifoaers. The
army of the Republic did not lufe a single
man. General Biron complains of want
of discipline.
General Cuftine was at the head of the
army of the North, as appears by a letter
from him to the Convention, in answer to
the calumnies of general Farriers, tlated
Aire, 23d June, 1792, in which letter
he mentions two small advantages gained
by the troops of the . Republic, under
generals Leveneur and Lamorliere, over
the advanced pulls of the allies.
Aug"fi 30, T793
At a meeting of the Committee of Mer
chants of Philadelphia,
It was refolv d, That a letter from
Thomas Jefferson, Efq Secret?ry of
State, and the answer thereto, Should be
published in the newspapers of this city.
Extract from the minutes,
Robert Ralston, Set'ry.
Philadelphia, Augujl 27, 1793.
Gentlemen, /
Complaint having been ms 'etq the go
vernment of the United States of some
initances of urijuftiCable v<x tiotiaiul fpo
lirtion committed 011 cur merchant veU'els
by t' e privateers <f the powers at war,
and it being polfible that other inllsnces
may have happened, of which, no inform
ation has been given to the government,
I have it in charge f.om the President to
allure the/merchants of the United States,
concerned in foreign commerce or naviga
tion, that due at'ention will be paid to
any injuries they may fuffer on the high
seas, or in foreign countries, contrary to
the law of nations or to exiiting treatic ;
and that on their forwarding hither well
authenticated evidence ot the iame, propei
proceedings will be adopted tor their re
lief : The jult and iriendly difpoiitions of
the several belligerent powers, affor.l well
founded expectation that they will not he
(itate to take efleftual measures lor reftrai:)-
ing their armed vefiels Irom committing
aggrefiions and vexations 011 our citizens
or their property.
There being no particular portion or
description of the mercantile body pointed
out by the law's for receiving communica
tions of this nature, I take the liberty of
addrelfing it to the merchants of Phila
delphia, for tbe State of Pennsylvania,
and of reauefting that through them it
may be made known to all those of their
State whom it may concern Information
will be freely received, either from the
indiv duals aggrieved, or from any afToci
ations of merchants, who will be ple„fed
to take the trouble of giving it, in a cafe so
interetling to theinfelvcs and their country.
I have the honor to be with great
relpeft, Gentlemen,
Yourmoft obedient servant,
TIL JEFFERSON.
The Merchants of Philadelphia.
Sir,
The merchants of Philadelphia reccive
your commumc ition, as one proof among
the many of the attention of go.vern .Irnt
to the commerce of the United States,
■vhich involves in it every otner important
interest of our country.
They will avail themselves of the invi
tation given, to convey all filch informa
tion as they may obtain, refpefting the
vexation and spoil committed by the pri
vateers of the powers at war, upon the
trading vessels of America ; and they doubt
not upon representation being made, thoie
powers will fljeiv the bell clifpolition to
retlrain aggrefiions, which, being exercifcd
against a people, who, in maintaining a
tlrift neutrality, have maniftfled a friend
fbip for all, and ought to exempt them
from luch depredations.
I am with perfect cfteem,
By order of the committee, and
in behalf .of the merchants o.f
the city of Philadelphia,
JOHN NIXON.
To Thomas Jefferson, Efq- )
Secretary of State. $
Shrewfotiry and Philadelphia
s T AGE.
THE Shfeivfborj and l'h lndelplna
will co.r.mtnce to run rrg, 1 j r l>, on T |jui(-
~ he fourth ul July, to Itavt Philadelphia on
mat day, aj-'i*r winch time, during the month
it u ) i),nt from M'Kean andVanEm
bui;'» whaif ai Philadelphia (the nex wlaif be
iow A.ch itiirt) on every Sunday an'd Wednrf.
Jay & procerd to BurUcntoE—the land ftaje to
proceed on the next morning to Eciington, an J
10 return on every Tuesday and Friday, In the
month of Augutt, itwi.l leave Phiia-klphia on
"very Sunday ajid Thursday, and return on every
ftielday and Saturday.'
Fare for PaH'engersfrom Philadelphia
to Btiington - - two dollars &an half
For good* ditto - ditto pr. cwt. on** dllar.
VAN JEMBURG & M'KEAN,
SAMUEL FORMAN.
Bordenton June 29, 1793.
For Irtijil.t or pafl'age, apply to the matters ore
30ard, or to
M'KEAN & VAN EMBURGH
WhchaVe for sale as ujua! tatheir stores 0-3 f,M
poikj hams, il u , lard, butter, rye aim
?ian meal, cbeele, w bar uon See. &c.
J ul ) 3 • 2m. law.
TO THE PUBLIC.
W HER *; AS 2n attachment at the suit of Sam
uei imljy and Nathaniel Imlav, executors
>f the tertament and last will of Peter irtiiiy, de
railed* has iliued cut of the Supreme Court of
Judicature of the Aa.e of Ne«w. Jei fey, the
:i'ids ot Garret Voorhris, late ot the bounty "/
IVliddlelex, and ftste afortfai-d, returnable to the
irft 'I uefdav i-> feveuteen hundred
two Notice is hereby given (o the
> \\ Gariet Vborheis, that unless he appear aai
iie special ba r ! to the said a£lion, nt
A'ill be tnrered"againit him r by default, arid the
ands so attached lold for the fatisfoflibri of such
jf his creditors as lhaii appear to he jnlvly entitled
to any demand thereon, and /hall 2pply for that
: urpols, according to the form of the lla'.ute in
luch cafe made and provided.
By order of the Court,
April 17. law. iy - K.CWELL, C!*c-
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be foid by Thomas Wil
liam Voung, Roeeut Campbell,
jVlellrs. Rice and Co, and Jon M M l
Culloch, No. 1. North Third-ih*eer„
A N EXAMINATION of the late pro
* * ceedirijjs in Congress reflecting the'
official (.oruiinft of die Secretary of the
Jpreafury.j with Observations, &c. on the
application of Joans from Hoi! nil, negoti
ated under the ails of, the 4th and 12 th of
Augulfc 1790. —T'he price of the above
>an«phlct is three (ixteenihs of a dollar, or
is 4d. 1-2. April 24. 2aw if
*** The author requests .hi* readers to
:'orrect the loi Jawing KRRATA in the
pamphlet above mentioned page 5.
ine 1 1 —2d. paragraph, for Coalition read
Coltifinn. Page 25. iilie 11—2 d. parag.
nltearf of Bank directors read 44 Stock
jfilcUrrft*''
Just published,
And to l,c f<*!o at the res r&ive ft. '< Stores of
Jojtpb Cruhfhank and 7 rvas Dchjon, and map
be had at ths Printing offic", No. zcg, Mar
ket-Street. [ Price ere eighth of a uci!ar t J
L E T T E R S,
4ddrefie<l to the Yeomakiiy of ths
United STATES:
Containing some Obfei 1 r:o;is on In::(ting
and Bank Syjicnsi '
By an AMERICAN" FARMER.
Alien to7vvj7. it t I'ancaP.zr ecunty t
To whom it may concern.
WHEREAS rny wife SAR/'.H SHAW hath'
behaved he fs'f in a very unbecoming manner, I
lave ihoug it fit to forewarn ail persons fullinff
ler on it:y account, 2s 1 am determined to pa/
io debts of her contracting, after the datc
ic- r 9 . JOHN SHAW,
AuguftJ'tS, 1793.
W A N T E D,
IN TWO OR THREE MON THS,
AN APPRENTICE.
REG UL A R I APO THEC ARIZ
A Youth not less rba'i fifteen or (ixtei ;v
.•ears of age, with a CuitaMe education, and
;ood nio-al character.—For further parti
. ulars enqiii.'e of tr.e Editor. ?.awtf
A FEW SOP IE SOF THE
TRA NS A C TIONS
Of the Society iujiituted in the State of
Nevj- Y*rjt, f r the promotion of
AGRICULTURE, ARTS, and .MANU"-.
. F.iCTL'RES,
May he hat! at this OiSce.
[Price HAU a uoVLAr.J
- . - —— . .
PRINTED BY
CHILDS and SWAIN E.
at 7HBih <rnct No.' 2 9, Mlr. h- *tar. £t
-I»£AP FirTH-STRtlt,
rut A 4