By P. FRENF. AU : (at No. 209, Market Street) PubiiJJud Wednesdays and Saturdays,- [Three Dollars per annum.]
Numb. 6qofVot. ll.] W E D N E S D A Y, June 26, 1793.
Foreign Intelligence.
[From a Paris Paper.] .
EatraH of a letter from the French Minis
ter "f Fureig .< Affairs, to the Prefiilent
of the National Convention) dated Paris,
April 3, !?9J
*• 7 Haft been detonnceci totbe National
■*■ Convention for hiving deferied citi
zen Stmojlvllle, »mb'ndiidor from the re
public to Conlmtinople ; ami exemplary
punifttment is <lcm owe it to my
it-it' to fijbmit to the Convention tlte most
itiimite explanations in aider that they
m iy jiitljjc* between citizen Seinouv lie, and
. Tnyfl-lf fc 1 can at all times, with the gieat
eli c« nfidOnce, render an account nf my
conduct to the reprefefltatives of die njtion:
a-id although I can.lot applaud tne irreglila,
if) inner in which 1 a-p denounced. becaut
itevidertly tends to wea en the > efpo ililri
lity'of nliriilters, in ta.4i.lg away frstin th.in
the liberty of their »<vri ig<nN,
yet Hill I nn indebted ro the del 011
who have now given me a fail
fiiin to e*,»of • .to the ;>n >.ic rti? jvidity «!
intention tlv»t- a.-Jusc. I tl . efu'
c.mncil, -sml fhc. 11 1b ' p.'v*
p:i.'e,l. i uiii v . 1'
the Cmve it o1 in deta.i 1; , : ,
tending to wy juftifi it'on i .
myfeit to lu imitto cftein aiiuple *JiTa.ii
of f.itts relative thereto.
Prom th- time of tlie revolution in
Angilt 1, n, ci :- • < Semortville was nanerl
to the em' y '•> »n!tantinople. H
talerK3, ailivitjr, and 1 . proof* of patrio
tifin he had given, seem ' to -nfure tin
success of a million w itch ii— vrr finer
beea considered one ol um nuifl Important
>n the app-iiumeut of the republic. His
d.epirttire from Genoa was retarded by
delays ariliui from the clio ce otprefents
toh* Sittai tet! with iiifti for the Grand
Seignior. The arti'is that were employed
0:1 them did not finilh their work till to
■wards the end of September. It to.ik near a
month longer to convey the perfents to
Toulon, where they were to by ihippfd.
Thcfe delays preva ited the departure ot
citizen Semonville till th end ot' 05tober.
In this interval the executive council was
informed not only of the intrigues of the
«>ldminifter,Choifeuil Gofiier. at the Porte,
bur of all the steps taken by the inirt'flerj
ot the combined powers, particularly by
the Neapolitan ininifter, to render, citizen
Semonville odious, and prevent his recep
tion at Conllatuinople, as ambafljdot
from the republic.
" In order to the success of our nepoci
ations with the Porte, it was neceflary
to expose tlw republic to an affront Which
ihe could noc otherwise than have relent
ed, and would bring on a rupture with s
power with which the ciri uinflam es ol
the times tlrongly urge us to remain or
good term-. The executive therefore con
eluded it heft to suspend the departure ol
Citizen Semonville, and fend a fccondarj
agent to Const mtinople. not only to m.ik«
Avuy for the acknowledguir nt of the am
feafl'ador, b.it to enter prrivdionally upor
:negociations. which it would have beer
dangerous to deter ariv longer. Citizer
Semonville then received order? to remove
from Genoa to the ilia.id of Corlica, aur
Jiolc! himfelf in readmefs to depart at ;i
jmoinent's warning.
While the executive council were
taking every ncceflary precaution, the
Convention ordered the publication ot
the papers found in the iron chelt, in
the palace of the Thuillerren. A
inong tbefe pupei* was fnuild a letter
from Talon to the ci-devant king, in
■which lie propose» citizen Semonville a«
fttcceflbr to Diimourier, in the mini (try 11
f »re»gn aftairs, becanfe 41 under theappear
ice of a Jacobin, he had 1. 1 cart uholl)
d voted to tUe service of Lnuis."-—A copy
of the letter written by Talon is as fot
-4 >ws—" Sire, The importance of the oc
cation brings before you a servant, who,
tho'having relinquidiecJ all di.eit connex
ion!, has no.t been the left engaged in at«
tcntively making his obfervatioiu upon
whatever concerns your niaj<lly. Thii
morning, Sire, Duinourier i..tends to re
ejliefl his difinillion. It is necelfaiy hi'
tuccell'or (lionldbea man. who, under co
lour of being a Jacobin, (hould yet have a
heart wholly devoted to your service.
Such a man is M. Seitu nville. The part
he has afled for (ix months past is the
ltrongelt argument I can give you in his
favor. Your mnjelly has his confidence,
and I hope lie will merit y«iu's; lor rcci
procal confidence is the strongest tie that
can attach men to each other, however
separated by diftailce.—lt has been per
haps too presumptuous : n me to make thy
felf refyoniible to your majelty for Semon
ville's fentiincots : I may Udd. however,
that if events Ihould require a dietatorthij'
(already tried without (iiccefs) he, myfelf,
and one other pcrfon, would take the whole
ril'que upon ourselves, and be refponlible
for its (Sicccfa. I have said enough for
your majelty to understand what I mean
Should you wifli a further explanation, I
take the liberty to alk a private inter
view."—l jim, &c. your majelty'* molt
obedient and faithful IVrvant and fnbject.
Signed, TALON.
Paris, 21ft June, 1792.
The encomiums bestowed by Talon on
the secret fetjtimrnti of citiienSeinouville,
>vere not of a nature to inspire confidence
m the executive council, vvlueh from such
' id errct. would have dlfinilfecl him at once,
f 1 ti» y h id thought it their duty previ
>iity to hear the ambail',trior's iuftification.
'lit the delicate litustion in winch our af
nnv .ire. in respect to rhe Porte, and
.1 e'firy of freeing Our agent from all
■ 11.is been a motive with the exe
11 r concealing their opinion of Se
,lll order to give the agent time
1 1 Co ilhmtinople by land.
van not till the ad of February that
te ,0 tit zen Se.mmville, to acquaint
11 * itli t e ih.uhti which the publication
'I' 1 alon's I< tier had raised againlt his
lurachr. a<Mi to persuade him to return
'o France to jnlhfy himfelf. This letter
.vn meant to convince citizen Seiuonvllle,
nat it was a talk to ine to
nfoem! a man from the execution of his
ifnce, whose talent* and activity might be
.'fry ufeful to fjlr republic. This itiea
ure, dictated purest patrlotifin and
1 full conviftlon of that responsibility which
» fobinding upon the great oltLers of the
republic (a mvafuropodtbly ton moderate
when 011 c conliders the ltri4t meaning of
Talon's letter; has been reprefentcd to the
National Convention as treafan againlt the
epublic. and this fame Setnonville, whose
lame has so unaccountably been included
n the correfpondenceof Louis XVlth, has
ji'tfunied himfelf. to call in queliion the
Mtriotifm of those good citizens who have
lenouueed ine to the Convention."
FRANKFORT, (Germany) April 17.
Ceneral Kalkreuth, who direit* the in
i'ellment of Mentz. has fumtnoned the city
:o surrender ; but general 1 oire, who
:ommands there while general Metmier
las the command of Caffrl, replied that he
Mould defend it to the lull. The bum*
i-.rdinent ot this unhappy town was there
foie begun yelterday. The bcliegers hav
ng in vain attepmtcd to dillodg* the
French from the village of Weilleman,
which was nec< lfary tor them to carry on
the operation of the liege, they at length
let lire 10 it. All the environs are likely to
be fnbjetted in the fulleft extent, ta all the
horrors and devastations of war.
VIENNA. April 8.
According to letters from Florence, the
Grand Duke of Tufcany, renouncing the
Mtcm ot'neutrality, his ordered M. I,af.
lotte, tlx"French minister, to quit his dates
within twenty-four hours.
The army of the Prince deSaxe Cobourg
will be dill augmented with 49,000 men,
tn order that proper gnriifons may. be left
in the Aultrian Netherlands, and that our
army may enter French Flanders before
the beginning of May.
The day before yelterday the third co
lumn of our heavy artillery began to march
from this capital. It consists ot three com
panies of cannrmieri, one of bombardiers,
and seventy carriages laden with ammu
nition and Implements .eceflary for carry
ing on lieges, each dravtn by fix horses.
RATISIiON, April 3.
In the cunclufiun of the Empire, of the
Bid ult. when the war sgajnll Frs .ce win
declared, and the circulation of the French
aflicnats prohibited. it waslin ther resolved
That
" All treaties of peace hitherto conclu
ded between the Germanic empire and
France rre to be declared null, yet with
out pn jtidicing the rights of evt iy third.
" All written correfpoiidenee is to be
narrowly examined, but the commercial
ronneftions with France arc to be preser
ved till infringed by France hevfelf.
" All the states and vaff-iis of the Em
pire are to renounce their neutrality with
France.
" All frenchmen \vhe> cannot obtain a
permillion of from the maglf
•trates of a;iy port of the Empire, are to be
banished from all its dependencies."
O S T E N D, April 27.
The Bruflels while it laments the
obstinacy of the French, bears tcftilnony
to their intrepid conduit in the field. One
action there is ("aid to have hiitcd twelve
hours, and it is compared at fonie periods
of its duration to the battle of Jemuppe it
felf. The combined armies have, howe
ver, poflefied themselves of many polls ir
the French territory. St. Ainartd ha>
been lately occupied by them ; and the
Prit.lTa*s ore polled at Latinoy, Rotibray,
and Tnrcoltu, which are within five or lix
miles of Lisle itfelf. The greatelt diHref;
prevail: in thole (Jiftrifrs; so immoderate
is the price of articles of the firft necefiity,
that even to exist, it were necellary to bt
wealthy. Whether these difpolitions por
tend the (lege of Lille. I know not ; It
feetns, how ever prob ible, that when the
heavy artillery arrives, which Is expected
about the middle of next month, an at
tempt Will be made, which even if itlhoulil
n« filtered, will not be inglorious. It is
generally believed in this country, howe
ver, that i.ille will be taken ; the reason
of which belief, as has been Hated to me
with much candour and funplicity, feenu
Eo b*. that that they cannot conceive how
the'combined armies will be able to get 011
f they do not take Lille. Certain it is.
rhnt If they do take Lille, their will make
1 moll important acqullition ; for the
tortbern departments of France, conlift
ng of an iminenfe plain, as far as Paris,
would br open to the ravages of cavalry,
ind a real famine might be added lo the
ong catalogue «f calamities which has been
iberally alligned to that republic.
BP-USSELS, April 26.
General Dumourier's profpeft of reftor
ng a king and constitution to France ha<
otally mi fear lied. lam the more sorry
"or it, as I am perfnaded itc fuCccfs uotild
lave saved a deluge ot blood. A limited
monarchy in my mind, is the belt govern
ment ; and fucli an alliance as was propo
sed to be the consequence, would have
ertainly fecureirto the French a rational
*y!tem of liberty. Thouglr I mult in mj
:onfcience, blame all foreign interferenct
'open or clandelllne) in the affairs ol
France ; yet as this interference has beer
rarried so far, I (honld have been glad tc
"*e it terminated in a way favourable u
humanity, and not inimical to freedom : ;
very different result may now be appre
hended. Jt seems as if this project had mif
rarried from want of co-operation at Paris.
Dumourier's letters avowing his delign:
ivere intended as the signal for the Orleam
jarty to rife. The afilinbly concealec
:hefeletters, and the report of the coin
inflioners, as long as they could ; it wa:
fiipa'rtant for thein to gain time, becauft
:he new levies were agitators. Had the)
Utemptcd a malfticre, they would havt
directly laid ho!d of. Tjieir emiflarie:
hreatened, in the tribunes or tne adembly,
ixty of the molt noted republicans, but die
lot dare to put their threats in execution.
In lliort, this infurreition not having taker
jlace at the time it was expected, Dtimon
rier durlt not venture with the few tr«Oßi
Utaehed to him into the heart of the king
lorn ; be prop» ed reinforcing his armj
*1 th a Wody of Anllrians, and this clrcum
lance cooled nioft of his friends. The
onflant method is to keep themselves tot
unich backward, and depend too fuuch or
lu irqpents, so that what has happened tt
iJumourier is 110 more than what btfon
uppened tcrthe late king of Sweden ant
he Hrabanters.
London, April *j.
DUEL.
Col. Gardner's mother alTurid us, t'h*
she had received a letter from her lon ai
Antwerp, informing her, tliaf a duel hat
been fought there between the duke ol
York and the prince of Orange, in whirl
the latter was run through the body. The
wound, however was not mortal.
It is to be 1 (marked, that the Ivvo prin
ces are married to the two irlnceliei ol
Prnflia.
The duel originated in the order giren
[Total Numb. 173 ]
by the Aadtholder some time fmce, which
was reported 1n (his paper, that all officer*
and foldiera negle&ing their dtity, should
be lent to the piovoft, which answers to
the newgate of this country ; the Britifti
foldicrs were not accepted. Hii royal
highness remonttratcd, and at last decla
red, in peremptory terms, that BritoDS
fhotiid obey the ordvrs of u Briton only.
There is at this time a much greater
numbc r of American veflels in the river,
than at any peried lince the independence
of the United States.
Lisle is well prepared to Tuftsin 3 siege ;
450 pieces of cannon are mounted on the
ramparts ; the garrison has fullicient ffores
oi ammunition'and provilions ; and all the>
approaches to it is laid under water.
On Tuesday were fold by public awftien,
In the city, the two firft French prizescon
demned this war. The one Le Cuflinc,
Was fold for 1151. and the othtr Les Sans
Culottes, for 140 —These are the funis we
receive in return for prizes taken by them
to the amount of near 30,0001.
The premier, notwithfianding his elabo
rate display and enumeration of the re
fmtrces and opulence of the country, has
already changed his opinion upon that fub
ieft ; and what a few months part he def
piled and treated as trifling and inconside
rable, he now regards asobje&s offuchau
alarming nature, that all the /lei 11 and saga
city which may be employed upon the oc
alion, will probably prove in
iirinounting them. If the enquiry into
ihe (iate and condition of the country,
which Mr. Fox was so desirous might have
taken place, previous to the declaration of
war, had been brought forward and pro
perly attended ttf, the filccet ding misfor
tunes, which have nearly overwhelmed the
tomwei cial pm-t of the nation, <iould ne
ver have occurred ; and in lictt Of that de
(trudtion and defoliation which have taken
place in every branch of otir commerce
and manufactures, peace, plenty, and ge
neral unanimity, woftld have prevailed
throughout the nation 1 .
I he >ndile/iy oi Mr. Dfjndn* has long
leen proverbial ; if it were not, his late
ieclaration in tire Hotife of Commons,
would m:rke it so. That is, that the pre
ent diltrtfled titration of the trade and
:onimerce of the country, wns fairly at
tributed to her prosperity, Iter energies,
slid her spirit ot enterp'rize. V e know
the neceflity some persons maV have fur
mpoling on JOHN BULL, yet we cannot
[tippofe hlpi so dull as to give cndil to
Inch bfit that he will jpftly im
pute/the exiftrtig calamities to its real
caule, narfiely, The present uapopular
war.
May 3.
The Suffolk 6f 74 guns, with the Cen
Cioddard and Lafcellei Eaft-lmJiaifien, Ad
a large convoy, failed this afternoon for
the Downs.
The captain of the Spatrifli Register fbip
brought in here took the French prrvaieer
to be an Alge. ine, having never seen the
new nation ii culours. Or heaid of the war;
and from a dread of being made Haves
Hood an atlion offjve hours, in winch he
had ten men killed and 37 wounded. HU,
upper works were entirely fluttered, and
his people having betn at fia from the
time lie left Lima, could no longer support
the fatigue of the attion. The iqate «f
the privateer liro-gly recommended a run
to America with the prize-
May 7.
Intelligence is in this town from Paris,
olate a date a dale asthe 37th ult. when
ntU remained in Allien tranquility The
ffpbrt 1 cfpetting the state of the granaries
was, that they contained a fuflicieiit
t>f corn or a fortnight. The royal family
w ere fafe and in health.
Recrulng for the army centiuued in the
capital ; but in the provinces it every
where met with oppuiition.
Some (ituations of consequence on th»>
frontiers, towards Spain, are said to liaVe
fallen into the hands ol that power.
1 lie combined armies we do not under -
Hand, have made any progress iince the
last accounts received—neither have we
heard any thing more of the meditated
attack upon Dunkirk.
1( appears to be the determination Of
fiance in the enluiiig campaign, to ast
entirely 011 the defeiifi'Ve ; thus firmly oc
cupied, it is generally conlidcred, that they
will be enabled to exhaust the patience of
their numerotii enemies.The opinion greatly gam; ground, tliaJ
it is tne object of ihe ex.eciu.vc council oi
1 ranee, r.> c inciliate ir.calure,s vitli
E i 'la id, Holland and Spifo. -
Ato "v K IV! fnjyte failed fro« Cadiz
for the II iva.Tiah, i llie 25th of Marti),
\v ! t'i orders for tlt> o - fleet there,
\v ii. hvo 1 , i'> o 1 iii-re l'» ps ot h** iine• arm
ib;i. - frigates, t«M.i*"af-<?n 'Hoard a body of
li 1.1 '»rc- 1, f>r a,l aiXicic o"t St. D >m'trtgl>.
|*n> tVgncil have invaded Swi "'-erla id.
a*vl :i!y taken ' t >o(T ;i or S '!..ii,'e, th
cap.cat of the'cinwJJ of'ihac name, btfiUe;
fiveral other places?.
By letter, from t <c Hague, dated the
:4th u't. «'e li'Vi' iHC'-'intt fiom Paris ..
fit,- a, the iijth of April. A decree of coi-
JBcatioa of I.ls p. uarif-of M. fcjal.te.
]i id been pilled, \vu ■ 'lit prejudice no.ie
ver to rh • i iaun-. of 'us credtto -
One of the fe ft tvm.'.s in "h.
city 111", aci.it ' ironi H uland
« ttina, that. the French Convent.on h u
pril.d a d:\ref, prohibiting t .e fiab 1 -
i'i 4.ice from p tj'rtg Wy biJis acuratecl.h*
tiu'iii, il.'av. b . .ts at '.a" » u thai
t ou'itry, and that even -x pun.ihuient \va;
mrxe'd, wherever ui.i cecrte was iiifo
beyed.
The Fi'. :v aa: e '.ittin ~ o'r.t at i'otirdc >.
fix of the liiouteft privateer* ever f«.-n; tc
tea from France, tae f.r.alielt ot theu.
Mounts 36 gr.:ij
rAr.LiAMl-TII A:fY R'STORM.
Among the different petitions aedref
to the Hoilfe of Commons »'i this fubi
that from Birmingham is couched ill tc
the iticjifi re/pecliul and moderate i.
commences by «' kno alodging >
ijl'fll of government than that y King
Lord.. 2nd Commons, each of Which otiu, -
to be independent oi the other— 1 he Cenn
no -5 ought to be freely eiccled b-y K ina
jority of the people ; it .late?, tV.nt; on the
contrary, there arc many ; n-lances in w i.iih
tiuy are app'vnted b/ t.ie influence 01 t-hc
£x»cnliv Pe.ver; other?, by tlie direction
of wealthy iid viduals ; and yet ag. eatei
iiumber by combinations of men—l ha
■where eiection is apparent ly Ujiiiii a broader
r roil ml. it is fi> conducted as lb be ruinous
i-j the Candidates, and becomes an cnd.efs
fotirce of d.fj.'der r deb luchery anil prufli
t:;tio:i—That, at present.in cor.feque.ice of
t,he numberlefi comply:c cases which otcu.
fVo.n bribery, and other difpu'.ab'e points,
reipecting vtiith, t ie law p. not fufficientiy
explicit, the t f ixi e' of "Parliament is uaftetl
ki fettling diljiiues. while perhaps the 1111-
duly elected M .u&er fits to decide upon
tar atfairs of til-* Kation by which he was
r,o. i.ii'rr. led.
r > ilis i niierfeft ft ate of reprcffntatiotl,
tlie Petition further charges increase
of t.i\es, and tne frequency ot ruinous
■\y irs; it therefore appeals to the vi tue
and prudence 01 the pi'efent H'Utle oi Cum
jnons for a rcJ.'efs ot these grievances, and
t: rifly reeoinmends the ihbitening the du
i.jt.on of .Parliaments, lofar as to preserve
CfScacy.
PORTSMOU I H, May r,
Yeftf-d ly arrived the Surprize cutter,
London, cap- Sewartf, ffom a c u:a.
jHe feli in wit.i a Kie.iih EalV-In.'iamaa of
JJou '.leaux; and took her after an engngtf
r.ient of a 1 hour. At the momeirt ox
b > 1 ding, three ?4'g"'P H)ip ; uoder French
colours, bore down (ipon him, when the
cutter was oboged to qfut her, and make
Me be! of her w v o!T, afte.r throwing 8
of her gu ft overboard.
PLYMOUTH-DOCK, April 25..
A fieet of seven fail of tae line, a id two
frigates, with upwards of fifty I iil of mer
tha'itmen, were this morning Teen, fteenng
t.o t!:c westward ; it is f.ippcfed to be ad
iralCefoy's.
DUBLIN, APitiL 10. .
The iinS.ippy bankruptcies that diflraft
the filler country, are attributed bv Tome
Of our venal prints, to originate from an
Undue extention of paper credit and not to
tile war. into which the British empire htv
been precipitated. Now the fact is. thai
this terrible concussion exhibited no fymp
tbms —
—Until the farmers of F.hgland-were'pre'.
vented from exporting their corn tc
Prance. . .
U.it.l ;he entire foreign trade of Bntar
was (topped by a Scleral embargo on al
her fiiipping. _
the nnmecl-m?n throug'»our r.n-
Hand, allured,by the high rate r s i f inter
est the d?pr;llior\ of the funds induced,
drew from'the-hands of the provincia
banker, merchants, and raannfaftureri.
the capitals tiiey clepofitjed wirh tjirm.
-t-Untii by a. gKiiet".'l (top and cor.-iter
m rid of orders from the E id-country,
Holland, France, Italy, and almolt eve
r y other great market in Europe, tht
woole 1, hardwire, cotton, and earthen
ware niannfactorers received so great t
Hiocii that 500,000 induflnous men wevt
thrown otlt of employment, and obligee
to beg their bread.
—Until five hundred Brit'.lh merchant
fliips, richly laden were detained for
want of convoys from proceeding 011
their dtftincd voyages, seized in hostile
ports, or captured at sea—by which the
merchants, h'lU run out their courtt
long before the jiroviHuii ior inicharg
ing them arrives.
—t'nt 1 the uremiUftrs of insurances bein.
upled, alii the nniveif I want<
UiOiiey preiludikl; Srt adequate rile oi
good ~ the ineictiani ConUi not d.fpok
o.'ilrtm but at a jcTfdt a uVuita iofs.
It is not then an extencron ot paper v
i'Liulic irttiit, (the lirtl tune we bear
ill it fnch credit was an evil in a io.iiinet
cia! cotmtryj that has occalibiuU V!.
dreadful baiiArup v irs i>l t ngi<-.J:cl. iti
tile CP if queiue of war alone ; tile mi >i
ter who Ijas p.unged his country into thi
rti ro - ■ c Ititv
•J : i
f roti i-'i* \tllcne-iii vei luei..
rNFALLVBILIT V is not the lot of Ku
* main, v, and to arrogate it is the hight-l
preiuniptiou Top,.ue any individual it
i free goverhrtwi/t above iriticilm, i : t<
Wilder li.ni i tailibJe in eipaiion, and thi
ntaiiibility is a fpeeies ii tyranny- N(
public e'ha."u£ier ought fo-b# so tarred, »t<
makeit d-'iig,eroirs or criminal to arraign it
mis is a iik.iis of the invioia'-ility whit!
royalt;. ia/s claim to. and whue it obtains
taep ivtrment is no longer free. is iai<
col rt of the prerogative Ci a tree
ir ni 1 believe it is i eCognized eithei
■ i* c 'v or impliedly in our cojiftitnt:ou
scrutinize IVe public con duel of those ii
tithority, a .(! it this prerogative is invad
ed, ftlicr by law or opinion* it is tyranny
V irtue ai cl c nth w i'.t eve r ltand the t'elt o,
t ('[ti iy —luiiehood.and dilign, fltulk iron
the i t iiiveltigatioft. Vv here, then, i
rlie danger—where, t. en, is tlx irtigroprie
rv to Vcrtitin.ze the aitioiis of public uieii :
i'ffe ibun cf upright conduct, like j.oic
from the frirnate, con.esout more pure as
terthe ordeal.
T ruth, no doubt, is dfiimes ail utiwel-
gtieft to men .n power :it i a me
mento dt imperfeflioa to them, wliico the
voice of ft ittery has persuaded them the)
ar. Iree from, and the man who has Uu
udacity to int. odviir inch gnefts to Jht
n\)ti«e ef the would be/ovircigiis oi ou;
country, are bran tie. .yith op, robi um
" iiue>.diariei are the court!)
epith ts for ti c< men, w ho preftiine to avai
tbenifelves ot Heir rights, and fay that oui
governmental gentry are capable ot wrong
Sounds so hoirid, ha? terror only ioi
tb# vrtttf.i and the flavith— but they giv«
iiiew to the iiiilepe'ndent Jr.tnd.
It is a fartiion uilieag courtly writers it
mingle things in the if nature dillinft : tit ti:
are those Who cent ore the aimtuijiralio"
cilkd • anti-fideralijUy 1 as if the exilt
erice of the cofllißuticm depended «lorx
upon the aclors under it: and thus ar;
l-.iufe who qilellio.i the legality and pro
priety of-tlie Vreliileut's Proclamation,
[I.led " dejperadnei," vho v 10 P'tii'S 4
tiie United States into a war; tli : tiie)
in ty gain a.foinething. which couid not bt
acqtined in peace- 1 his ii a kind ot pou-
Ucal inquijition, earfculated to preclude tin
freedom of A higher tone thai
inliiniify is obfti v'ed by foine : they menace
n cjitrij'mi, is if treemt n t'fe sO be de
terred bj fitifx and gaiters !!
Whatever complexion may be given tc
llie intention of men who question ttie pro
priery c-'f the j?roclufti tioii, liom?ver t'uj
nay bea.iatheantifed by the.ourt.y tribe.
[ will pre;'ume to give ail opinion'ho mi
tonjecrated lull,ai d pronoiinct it to b. im
proper, ill-timed and til gal: improper, a
t threw all the belligerent powers into out
ndifcrimiliate Riafi.: ill timed, as it w.i
Jtitili.'bed before the arrivi 1 of Mr. Gc-ne
,i rliij city, and before he had an cppoi tu
V.ty of ditlafing the intentions oi his re-
Vublic; and illegal, as if placed itatio'ns.
ivitn whom we had' no treaty, no legal
;on.ie£lio I, o'n a footing with those v itt
.vliora we had alliance. It cannot be dc--
lied, that all the belligerent powers die
lot tiand in the fame relation to us, and
hurefofe to hafli tfieni all tip together
frieiids and aliens alike, was deftroyinj
.be relation which. fuSiilied betweenJomi
if them and us : An alliance lubiifted be
:ween France and the Un'ted States; an<
declare to t ie world, tint we viewet
t'rancc'. Who w:san ■ ■ iW. in the fame lighi
is Aufiria and S irtluii i. who are a-(ictii :c
ja. caiino: be reco'nci i '.1 no ' i tli-e ciimmi'i
jrinciple ot honour or '. ai'fn. \V hjr v.'ai
Lhe' proclaim'"' i i(Tued b'ifoff iHe arrl'vit
nf Mr. Ge. city' l" Was 4 not thii
:l •( taring a so leiture of o-n- engagement
with France, and tint we w onld remaii
n?uter, the ailiance and his inih'iift-ions ti
r'ie conirai*y notwithftartding 1) dno
.lie hurry of the pr -clamation, a? well a
.tie terms of it. amount to a dereliction o.
Oiir alliande? Fof. if we intended to fulfi
it, vvliv fncli precipitancy in declaring neu
trality? is tliere a treaty betweer Aailria
.Sardinia; an-1 the Unite! States? If there
is not, is'not lhe proclamation enjoining
•he fame goed'felkv.vfhip and good nf.ee!
to mem, as to Uiofewith wliomwareii
-re ity, an afl of injuflice 1 The duty oi
the Prelideut is executive, and not legifia
live; and if there is no trratv between
Austria and Sardinia, his deel n ir.g t .en.
entitled to equal privileges with our allies,
is an aot of legislation : it is an act ot /,ye
reigtlty. and of i ijuflice. The laws oi
Congress, explaining the prelidential pro
elamitionary powers, ftys. that the Preii
cJeut-lhaH iilUe his proclamation in tales •!'
nj ~rreßi*i\y cr of ipprfitivti-to the laws of
ne ». net! States. \Va- Ann rica in a
tale oi mfnrrecMbr' were its citizens
king opjjf fition to tin laws, thai a j.iro
."laii»at!on ia.uft n.etiaco tl • in' What I! pi
vc* fay of a pro lanvitio:' tlint level all di
"ti "cVion : nd put? friends and ;bens upon i
1" tliis a violat c.il ol 1;W a
veil us of common fintli ? Sor. where i
"lie lift- of treaties if nations, with whon
w. have no treaty, are to have the latin
countenance as ;;l!.es ? FrANOF Sardinia
and Austria upon J tooting i V
'nsi s! ;
If it is supposed, from any of the precedinj
reu:urks>thjt.l w.irh to pinnae this coimtrj
into a war. I can declare, that vat isvvha;
1 moll fiiiLi rely wifb to avert Could nt
rentier France any effectual afliflartce
it would be our " d ty ' —it Would be rtti i
■' inttrtji" to iftMurl the flanclard, o1
hostility ; Kut. as we are too feeble,
and France lias had the geyeroiity to fore,
go her claims upon the Unittd Stares, ]
wifti peace ir:.y be prefc r\ ed. It is ast alt
artifice, that to q>ic(li»u tfc<- propriety ol
the conduct "of Cjagifb ates, and expoft
iheir tifurptions, will have a tendency tc
involve us in war. This cry of v. oil ! wolt
is 100 hacknifd to E-lariro
J" cannot Close tnii effny, without one
word to the cunning ' Friend to J-true:
W hen the devil tempted our firft-pareiils.
he afiiimed a friendly appearance : It i:
fuel, indeed, that whenever he wi.lies tc
led.ucc virtue, he puts on virtue's garb —
Take care, next time, to conceal the etc
veu-fust. Another word from the poet,
for his edification :
" Sonie tttr rvioion 6n scraps of Irarnirsj
cots';
And think tTiey grow immortal as fhej
quote :
To patch-work learn'd quotations are al
lied ; —
Both flrive to make our poverty our/ ri:le.'
I'K.ILO-VtRItAS.
June 20, 1793.
kou
Far lie Nation'/.-l Galet-iE
Co t'te Author of the two I.otters Jigitei
•• A i r.tENa to' Pea ce:"
SIR,
r AM fu much delighted uitli your two
* letters to Veritas, in anfaer to.his i»ifo
enc letter* eo-the P.-elideiit, that I am. ciif
jol'ed to fcccome an interloper in this t or
refpondence also, for the purpose of point
ing out a few of t'je principal beauties in
your co'mpolition.
lit the lirlt place, by filling three Ct four
:olti.r,nsin tile gazette for \ er.u-'i one,
yon have convinced me that you have tilt
belt of the argument, becanl'e you have
mc/t to fay ; lor he who can fay f our time
i., much i-.s another oil any subjecT, fnut'
rvidentiy understand that fubjrft four
times as well.
As yon have declared Verit is to be ex
tremely ignorant and malicious, and yoi.r
relf vast ly intelligent and well meaning,
you have the advantage of liuu ag.iia ; for
as j our antagonirt has not thought proper
publicly to contend with you in felf-con
te:t, the public mull certainly decide the
claim to thlsuleful accoopliiltment i.l yuur
favour.
Yonr manner'cfwritfngistSecidedly pVe
fe able to Ms ; lor you Irave very pdici
cioufiy reversed the foolifli eld rule of nlul
l min / afro. Judicioully. 1 fay, b'ecaufe
when a man writes so diffufeiy aitofiive
the reader the trot.ble of thinking, he that
runs may read. To moil people, a glass oi
lirotig rum would be an intolerable ritVfe ;
but lit it be diluted witha pint or half a p'li't
as water, and it becomes quite palatable.
Jti a fsgna lire, you have greatly the
advantage—Veritas fimp'y f'gmties truth,
which you know found- very hardily ; efpe
, i illy in the Pars-os some men, the
fitbjeft is that <>t governmental office"-?—
But the name of " A friend tojieace." h ■!
a peculiar char.» at this jiin'fltire, in as nmcii
as it implies that there are some writers a
mong us who afefiit/.ds to KHtr ;" a fuppo-
Ittion which furnili-es the
with an excellent prettxt for crying' out.
Incendiaries I Hence, tdo, your incotVipn'-
rable arguments-in favour of peace' derive
their c hies beauty —Were w'e not oh'the
very p-J nt of being involved in the was,
Until vott made us converts to peace ?_
I call Hot fttHiciently admire yoirr inge
nuity in (bowing that, although a war raged
in Europe iti 1792, the proclamation was
not r ecefTary before the 22d of April 1793';
and that it became the imlifpenfabW duty
of the executive to iffu'e it precise!}' at that
date, tow arli our citizens from taking ai y
part in the war. . But some are so imperii
ncnttis-tofay, that a'pri'iciprfl dtlign df the
proclamation is to prohib'rt trading ill con
traband goods ; and as a trade of this kind,
wall any of the belligerent powers, woyld
haVe been as unjullifiable in 1792 as in 179?,
why, the'y alk, was cot the .prod matron
cither iiTtied in 1-9.2, or net at nil ? The
•• wife-acre;." who' ("tars this cbjetlion do
'not fecm to recolieft, that our goodJrW'd
Great-Britain, was not invoked In her
prelent jdft and honorable war with France
until t /93* hat bi-ilmefs had -,e to de
clare our netitralit), except as a hiai-k of
our grateftil eltcem for Xjreat-lir.taiti, it*
return for her numerous afis of geneiofitj
aad fiiendfliip tow sftls us. Arautinii vAg
fares us rt'e trouble and e:;penre r. r JefcswU
inp our- u t ltt . n polls, by prrifoning them
lor us, with her own toldiers, is certainly
entitltd to cur waimeft gratitude.
\our hints at trtafon at d contempts of
court, arc maftc r-ftrokes. The icrrors of
the Uw might,,! thiuk, tie more frequently
denounced agalefi the ,revilers ol eovcrii
inent, with good. etfeft. I \\ euld go
farther, and üßeTCver any meafi-re of go
v ■rninent was in d "gerol being too ih ictly
scrutinized, X'vfo'iiTtf profeutt the author
of the firft Hi ay on ta.it fobjeil, no matter
whether lie lud violated the Uws or not—
Whether innoseo.t or guilty, »U an ther in
quiry on ti.e l'rbjeft Wofilu be pret hided
lor a time ; or if ny dared to touch upon
it, they might be dragged before the conn,
Hi d ftvtrel; punillxd for a cor.ttnpt. with
out the intervention of a jury. This, I
ihiub, woii.d soon silence all thr preflrs,
except ftich as might b--- employed in found*
ing ihe prtiil'es of povermtje tt. I hope the
hint will not be Jolt.—Some have wondered
\\~liy you llionjd venture to go much far
ther than Veritas, on ground that you tie*
clare to ha so dangerous. 1 have accounted
for it, by fyppoiing that you were p.evi*
otifly litejifed to lay as much as you pienfed,
on the rig lit fide. I am forvy, how eve.,
that all your arguments hate not intineHie (
the admiralty court to decide in favour of
tiie libellauts. 1 think an opinion from a
man of your prtifijjional abilities, tbi't the
admiralty court was " the proper tribunal
to try the legality ot the capture, 1 ' ought
to have had tome weight v\ itii that t our:.
\ contrary decilion having been given by
the judge of the admiralty. I fear Veritas
may retort your charge of ignorance, even
in your ownprofelEon ; a k'tiKl of ignorance
the leaf! txcufeable of any.
A BKCH'IiUR-TORY.
June 2,\.
«CTrapssjaajig.wM ii..
VIIILA DE L P 111 A.
Wednesday, Jut.e st.
Oh Friday the 14th inlt, came on before
the" Hon. Judge I'eters, the . a»fe of the li*
iiel'aiiß ag.iiall the (hip William, of CI; f
gow.—And oh Frtrfay the 3 t't, the libel
plea a I'd repiicafron betiiij. fvfi recapitula*
:id Uy th~judj&f, as well die pleadings
>f the council, he proceeded to deliver his
Decree upon Me pled t*
as loilov, s—
Dlftri.f'Courtof the United . c t:ites, in and
for tile Pcnnlylvania Difltiffc
Robert Findley, j'un. and others, fuljeflfr
of the I-ing oi Great-Britain, *■ rjtis, the
fliip Wdliarii and her c ua>w in the
port of Philadelphia.
I luive g-iven this fui-.jcft every conside
ration L'oth capable of, and have tielibera*
red on the arguments and authorities,
brotightforward by the* advocates on both
>des the cpieliion, with the intention they
justly merit. But it feeuis to nt« that much
nas been (aid, n*t immediately applicable
to the only point I have now it- determine,
tov.it> Whetherthis tioiirt . 1 ve/!ed with
'hepower to enquire into the legality of tht
ptizi. aid to i.iefiig(je the Ji.Ci tit: vt&tci
ill the renfanii.gt art fuitpiiecl ■ If this fait
is edablilhed. and the extent of cair ti 'V
torial limits afeertaine'd, f« as to ina it
clear, that a capture has been made v. itMn
the territories of tile United States, then
not a doubt but that a flagrant violation of
.he rights of n*;ii rality has
and this is foliov.ed by many of the con
u.juences mentioned bj the adtotaies for
the libellants, so far as tftey refpeft our na
tional dignity and duty liivvjirds a friendly
power, endeavouring to catife reftitutioii
or recommence to be made Kar does this
feem to be denied by the other fide of the
quiftion. 15111 the euibarraflinent still ex
ills. Why ii ti enquire into t.:e v'otter, and
tith'etgiveQr.atti.mpt.the reii c/i ?
It isi'ifficuh lor a neutral natten, with
the belt d'ifpolition, so to cor.di.it itfelf, as,
not to d.fpleafe one or the ot icr of the
belligerent parties, heated with the rage of
«ar, and jealous of even, cu3i»w;i acts of
just ce or frientlflfp on its part. Neither
is it <»«iV for t ie nations at war to rcltraiit
then' fu'bjecls from acts of violence, even,
in the terricorit's of tbt-ir i.ler.ds. The
lead uiider lontcol. are tiio 'c \\ h«fe objecfc
js not honor. Ule conflict, or patriotic ex
fj tioi. Thele are aitijatcd by a spirit of
l*cre, \v4iVch not only in ites to plunder,,
the bjfe and lawle.fs si cebooters, but tar
■Ulies even hi-roilm, byl'tdwcing into un•
juflifabie actions the br. vjli men. It;
u onld be for the interest <>' uatiuns and the
llappiiß-fsnt mankind, if by u:iivt'C»al coil-,
lent, the qparrtis of nations vitre prevent
ed si out i.eiug turned t > ti'f purposes of
private advantage. but lite fvvoriU of
those who light for gain, v. iit not in out
day, be beaten into pipugb lii»re>.
We mult take ti 'tions and 11 en as we
find them, and c.ynfultr as i uvtu!, what
thufc uar authorize, so far as it icfpeiti
the parties engaged. Aiterail, it depends
n-.ucii op the interefl, the or
the food.temper of gov.<ir»i.it*n:s, whether
a nauuai. lhaii, cr fh ill oat he tnr. 'gcd in
war. A prtu'rent and ]w(t on the
part of the neutral, pariic.uiTly, is tut for
eit preventative. I>ut how to evince this is
a mutter of conlideration with tktfe to
whom the tovernmeiit Udtieg»ud, Thesi 'It r.nde of f vincing our impfl--t*ral dif
p ' : ui >, is to til * 0. toil
ii' i:ii ■ i.iii<iJ» n our p ■ Jicame ;t. An
«vji* a.irt'om z j il to avm i coitgis in i_v
other v' f> ie tJ ii; i iter errl % and w lile we
■rj e id? ivmrm,f to avoid tins rcick, we
)!Uv fp'it on another.
VT ittial toleration m b? ft s'reifed, for
t r>fe who lire itt war, ind fhole w'lo are
l >t, hive" their lharc of difficulties oil this
f.j -a.
. Under thii view oftheimattrr before me,
1 hive liven a patient iieari;i i >; to .>oth tides,
f ' h • t particularly attended to rjie ar
j ae it- by wliiv.il a jilrildkhon has been
i 1.1- ured to Be eilaolnlied in thi*! court.
1 certainly be allowed by the idvj
< a:< 'he libella its, that t'i?y have not
been '.o any direct authority upon
th i" Kir '.he two calVs of the duke
ih ! ' >y. ■ ising the vefi'el committing
the pi : . v '. . • tile part of Leghorn, a:ia
: . . l!:.• '. -, ■?f Kiijlaid, ordering relli
efi -its taken out of the horifes
(i| u'i?i ■ ; ant;', aid belonging to a f:;ip
• : i " I » |v)ner. d i«en hy its enemies
"1 fch Ihore, tpprar ifi h'.ve |i*;aj ei:t<. of
p kI iH>t done in coij(c.|iien'e oi'Je
cret , or •■•dersot courts ut'admiralty.
st.< t thele jurifdiftiont extfted la both the
cc-.tm r.es above-mentioned.
Th; cafe of Capt. Li 'dais, in rb? Ame
rican frigate Ailia ice, Who, wj- ordered by
l '.( coir c of tranee to restore a_<iip taken
by him, i- n >. in poi it—fur, the foiiT.,
wlio appeared as o i ner% were either fub
i ' :t», or persons lelident aAd dnmic}|rated
; i rra itc ; and the (hi |> was failing under a
]>a:l'port of that nation. Tltey therefore
c.iniid nut be conlidtrreda-- enemies, aid the
capture not being made from e-.cwin, the
cafe was not comprehended in th# treaty,
«>r the capture authorized by the laws of
nitio is. In the cafe f lling under the no
tice of the ktH£ of England, (except that of
Jiis liaviljr t.ie po \ er o. peace and war, us
an appendage to which, he inia;ht hive e&-
ercifed this kind ot authority I 1 flionld not
have fuj'poftd him veiled. without'an ast
(if the legislature, with the authority lie
lifed; and it is doubted by Binkerfhock,
whether he d d right in interfering at all on
tlie occalion.
If it be conliflent w'th treaties, and o
lherwife right, our leglflature can vest the
executive in future with similar powers.
I mould fnppofe too, thut the liberty of fel
ling prise-, in a,neutral country is not a
perfect right, anil may also be conlulered by
our national legislature, as a fubjeft of re
gulation. 1. any captures are made u ltliin
oar limits, and the ve'tels or plunder is
Wonght within our ports, the sale may be
forbidden, thjy ilUlft the.i be either aban
doned, or at- t-d tfv juri:dij;ti;:ii of
the captors ; where the proper courts will
oonlider of their leg nicy. \ct this is a
matter no: of judichl but of political ar
rangement and mull be left to those who
have the authority to diirefl. The fove
reigntyof nur nation is as complete as that
of any qrhtr.
Therefore whatever other sovereigns can
do, we hive in our power- But because,
&t thi: time, the authority fnppofed neces
sary on this occalion', is not as it is alledged
to be fount}' :n the executive branch, i do
not fee thai the judiciary ought to exercise
h, as a ice refnltjng from political
convenience or t|ie necelEty of the particu
lar cafe. This I fear would be a novelty
<li£lated by our zeal, and might give canfe
of offence to one, while we » ere a fUiiig at
jn'lice to ourselves, or gratification to the
,'ther. I h-fit3te not to use any plain .u
----thority. I k.iow this court to polilft, let the
eulife-iuence be what it may. But this is a
queflion too important in its etfecls, to be
u.:;d on but on the furefl ground. I a
g. =e b. e, as I do in many of the r othi.r
jiofitioiis, with the advoifaies for the libel
la its, v. lien they fiy that ' courts of adnii
j a ty juri dittiaa are Icf> liab'e to-objection
as taefe courts are regulated fcy thlt laws
and cujlums of all natioi.s, and no liable to
political bias or entangled in political .o
i terations." Thislliculd itrtluce the great
er caution In iheir detennins'iouj. 1 have
not seen any proofs th t "//;e laws hvd cuj
fomt of all i.aliotu" wairant the interfer
ence of this court. If they do not, no au
thority can be dtr veii si om ortrou it!aw s, if
they were not fileiit on the fubie£l. In the
exiffing arrangement of our g< vernrnent,
ve did not calculate on our relative titira
ioil, as to conte'ts Between o her nations.
J"t lor tills rc-afoii no immediate remedy is
srnd. who can jullly cenfnre the execu
tive when he has given dt cided evidence of
Ills impartial and just inclinations ? 'A hi
can with reason blame'the juri ciary, if the\
■v\ ill r.ot ifiume a power not conceived to
be vffled in them ? Kot the goveri irertt
of the country whose lubjefts are the libt!
tints, to whom I wilh every degree of juf
tace may be done. The principles eliab
lillied in the decisions of their own court:,
a id ike opinions of their mod celebrated
lawyers in the contells with the king of
t ulfia, in the cafe of the Silelia loan, in a
depree reach the poim, as to ju iuary
authority in a neutral nation.
In Palache's cafe, lam aware that-it is
only said the veSel '■'was taken at Jta,"
but if not, it rather appeals that it would
be more proper lor diplomatic than a ju
diciary examination. The general princi
ple as to tile capture is agreed j and is
CtisHnr to that efUbliflieJ hi otir treaty
with France, which ought to have its pro
per weight. _
It w.W re olved, by the while court of
King's B *ncb upon conference and delibe
ration, ttllt tite Spaniards whose Ihip had
bee i tak-'ii by an enemy, and brought into
Engla id, a friend to botii parties, had lo(>
the property of tlis goods forever, end had
no remedy for them in England. And re
lied principally upon 1 h-j books, in 2- R. -3
lib. supra being of so greut authority, for
by that book he that will 1 e to have refli
tntion of goods robbed at fei, ought by
law to prove two things, rft. that the sove
reign of tile plaintiff" was, at the time o)
taking, in amity with the king, of England ;
2d, that he wlio took the goods was, at the
time of taking, iu amity with the fovtrcign
of him whose goods were taken, then na:
it no depreditioh or robbery, but a lawfiu
taking, a? every enemy might take froi;
another." 4. ins. 154.
It is true that by the laws and cuftc.ni!
of nation-;, the capture if taken in neutra
bounds, is 110* a lawful prize ; but I <U
not fee that this court can get at that cir
cirinlta.ice, ivir/nut holding pleti as to tht
iawfalMjt of-'the prize. It is the origirta
qjieltiun and not collateral matter v. hicl
determine jurisdiction. The courts o;
common law in England will not take cog
tiiza c. of any thing aruing out of {he qu<. f
tion 'p ize or no prize, " because the ori
ginal caulV mult .11 come into c]tje/iinn a
;V'in " And yet the admiralty had deter
milled that the (hip was no prize.
This will be a proper fubjeOof enqnirj
on the part of our government,' or in «
co-.irtjd! the Country of rliV* captor. Even
nation has eftablifhert theft courts, an'
knowing that, f at war, tiit'y are answer
able 10 a nation at peace or in amity, ij
violation of territo y h'sppen in captors,
care is t. ken to examine into this circuni
itatKf. It on this account, the capture i:
illegal it is <oadj dgd: and th. j>art
is iiabie to dam. ge-s. Whether f(n.li da
mages Hull exceed the amount of the (e
---cttriry gi-eit by commanders of pn»aOj
illips of war, or whetiiet' one nation is an
five, able to another for'injuries dotVe bj
its subject to others, contrary to, or with
out its orders, is a matter in which there
are diltercnces of opinion aiisongft civil UiU
and which it is uuiieceflsry for me now tc
invelli^ate.
It is duubtlefs contrary 10 the hiftruSi
ons ot the Ere ic : i government.,that any ol
the (hips commiilioiied by them, in a
liol.lile maimer. in a fr*eadly ami aliiec
territory It is to. be expected by one
power Iron? another, that her courts and
her aifnii liitratio.i will do j uflice to the
fights of (o\er ieiuy ;.:.d aeulrality. It
will be the mure 10 t>e 1 1 ne itecli' a ;rieiu.
and i!(y il»:h..<l d.f .pp'ii..t t..;s expectation
— litiL Uiotiid til 5 be the c.ife, ic is nwt to;
me to fay what proceeding ti.oiVld bs had.
I have fubjoincd to this decree some ex
racU iroui the " Exposition of the Mo
tit/], ' dc. from the Duke of.NeWeillle
th Britifamimfter's letter to Mr. Mirchel
the miniiter of Prufli 1 and'lrom the reporl
and opinion of Sir George Lee. Docto:
Paul, Sir Dudiey Rider and Mr. Murray,
rhc late Lord Mansfield, on the fuojcctv
I have meritioued, which are to be foinlc
iu Magen's 463, 482, 48;, 391, 496. 505-_
Ouier authorities from britilh and othei
writers might be added, by nhith' it ap
pears, that when two powers llave am
difference between them, the alfair nnr.l
ne treated by negner/t lu. 1, and not th'rongl
tiieinilrumeiuaiity of their courts of ju
llice.
That affairs of prizes are only cogniza
ble ill tile courts ol the power making tht
capture; these courts being generally ltyl
ed courts of admiralty ; and that it ne* c
was attempted, before the fuljjea. of thai
controversy happen-, d. to ereic i'ii a nv hi .1
(late, courts lor thetial of pri2c9 takei
by belligerent powers, even where lien
1, Sis yvere cortcerni fl ; and that of conrk
•~o coti-1 c 1 one fovercign has a right to trj
ihe priiz. s tak-n by the (hips, jii.buc 01
private, of another.
A dispute of this nature, in which the
i.ing o; lVuliia could r.ot prevail, who,
tliou-;h weak jc sea, was powerful at land.
a-Kl had a propenlity for war, would iiiy
nit us. We have, indeed, (hewn that we
;new how to war, but it is now o|ir inte
eft and inclination to cultivate the arts oi
peace.
Aiiuh has Ven fa id on both fides, tci
. ew the impoitance ot this cause, and the
neccffity oi caution in iC- detc ru illation. 1
am futfieiently impicfl'ed with iKltfe coi.fl
dc i aidri. Btic I feel , niyfclf ,at ei.fe in
1 ''is view of the Uibjt'A. I' am perfu-clt d,
that any thing uhich affeefs the fov't reigmy
a. id rigi.ts of our country 1 , v» ill not be pulled
unnoticed by tl.cfe w 1.0 have [lie j:ow tr to
. egulate our national concerns.. 011 my
o\\ 11 account I have 110 (■bfcpiietude ; lor up
error ol m ne can alfecl the nation. T here
is an apptal. from determination I may
give, to a lupei ior 11 'bunal lam anxious
lor the peace m d dignity of my country;
but not deeming myfelf-uthor,ftd to juuge
i;i a matter growing out of the contells be
tween belligerent powers, nor conlidering
t'lV court in this inllance, the tmdicatrix,
or the rights of our nation, I leave in bet
ter hands ilie difcuCion on the Ailject of
n t/onai insult, and tlic remedy tor any
oiviSba cf tcfritwial r-ighu. The ;n.l_:;ce
'.ideofthis court Terms to haeeJothsrobjeiU-
And a priz.e court, in activity, when a na
tion is at peace, appears to me to be afole
cifm injunfprudeucv.
I DO TJIEJSror.E DECOBE, BHCEIt
AND A'Dj.jcgk, that the LIBEL in thl
cmfe be DISMISSED, and that the SHII 1
■ herein mentioned beDISCKARGEDfrom
ARREST, the PLEA IN THIS CASE
BEING RFLEVANT.
(Signed;
RICHARD PETERS.
June 21, 1793.
*** I he extract-referred to in the fore
going <leci *e, asfubjoined thereto, wilEbe
found in i/V Magtrti on J^/uia/u(,pn^tb
i°s, 49.1, 4A 437, 452, 463.
S f, A'COMBA T.
Fxtra£> of t let er from a gentleman of
iiforir.ation and crcdit dated Baltimore
June 23.
A velfe! from Havre, called L'Ami de la
Loi, c..pt. \\'m. Henip,' carrying 6 cannon
of 3 and 4pt ■ 'I ; i.. „ v.'ew of 1$ men
H"d 3 palieiift. •;>g 23 (ijjrs «*s from
Cayenne," IJ' it cotton, coifee, & c .
was met by -.11 K ■ ■ r!i private ror° 14 gtiiis.
He fuftatpi'it d combat of 3 hours long,
when having expended all bis powder, he
took meafurcs for boarding. This coura
ijeefls cbndnrt frightened the privateer and
forced her 10 fly. Capt. Henirt has not
101 l a (itiglt man, though his fails are ri.'l*
djed with bullets, and His rigging otherwise
ciaiti'aged. Huthe afiiirei us that the pri
vateer ftis flittered much mote: ail the
balls which he fired having* so injured her
hull as to render ic difficult to keep her
afloat.
Ext rati of a letter from Eviflbl May 4.
" The approaching Cummer seems preg
nant with »i gi'cut events as ever have been
recorded it. he preOnt century : To form
an idea of v it these events will be, is lai
b -yond'thep v- of niui't ' L'vwy heart
that is not >.vt ieu c... A the ide-.:s of I:v..
marmiy, iritr: f.-el indignant at t: c :.au of
Lpuis XVI. But wlte,her uie immolation
of thoufai ;s of i n-sten: perions to his
means. \>i 1 be • rate ill to them, 01 advan
tageous to the word, I mull leate to the
politician**, the time to determine Eng
land is beyond- comparifoir i:r a more de
pioruble Hatethan ever I k e.v her—Bank
ruptcies beyond conception—pub'ic faith
ipitirely gone—an etpeulive foreign war to
inppnr:, a 1 iVI a confiderabli faction to ou-eli
tt home. { i.lin what i hiivfc IHqS.'Che.war
is not a popular cue, and the fat!den cffeil
it nas had 011 trade matSe,-. it very ob'iicXiotrs
:o many 111 cIC mercantile line. The French
were prepared ft.r making leprifals at lea
upon tneit enemies sooner : .an a.iy of flic in,
and many valuable prizes have aueadv fell
1 .ito their hands ; but it is by ,no means
probable, that the French marine can f.,p
port it elf against the united 111,; ine .>l'
Hoilaud, Spaiii, ana Portugal."
TII9 Anibufeado•frigate has failed from
New-\ oork 00 a crUife.
'1 he cargo of the American fliip President
Washington, Capt. Sifl >n, u advertised for
file at Qrtend, in the French papers—Be
lize's great qaaititie of piece goods, there
are 91 r,7ocln. Bengal sugar; 2i,;'oolb. gum
arabic; 121 bags of c'offce, and 475 cheih
teas.'
A Calcutta paper gives n horrid recijal of
a getitlteiiia.i in the East-Indies, who was
feizeduya ti ; «er, and miraculoudy deli
vered from the jaws ps that ravenous foe
but not before ne had received such dread
ul wounds a* in a f'ew hours put a period
to his exillence.—Four gentlemen u ent on
no ifla.id to shoot deer; after purfuiug
their fportfbr lome time, they fa£ down to
take lime ren eihment. when immediately a
large roaring tiger fjji ung upon rtuc- of tilt
party: in a moment his head was in the
tieaifs month, who rulhed with hiin thro'
the thickell bushes and trees, every tiling
yielding to Ins ilionllrous (trength. The
gentlemen quickly laid hold of their nitif
icets, a;:d lliot several times at him, while
ciieir unfortunate companion was in his
mouth. The tiger was now fee 11 to dag
ger, and in a few minutes the victim of his
ferocity crawled towards them, covered
with bided. f here wi re eight or *.11 of
tfte natives about them, a laige fire was
kindled up. much noise and laughing at the
time ; but this ferocious animal did egard
ed all. He was about four ' and a,half feet
high, and nine feet long —his head neiy ly
a . large as an ox's—his eyes darting fire,
and his roar terrible.
,fn . confpcjueftce of an application from
the Prelideut Of the United States \.l- the
governor, as commander in chief of the
militia of Peniviyivania, a party of the nii
litia was, 011 Saturday latt, put on board
the (hip Wiiliftmi now. in lim port.as a prize
to the Frer.ih privateer Citizen Cenet, lot
the jJtirpofe <>l keeping her in lafe cullody,
until he had decidcd upoh nil allegation,
that Ihe was tapTuied within the limits of
ihe protcftion of the Uniteo States:—the
court of adim'tnity 'or this having
prouuun.ced a decree, agaiuil its own jurif
diitioa upon the fubjeci.
Lafl Monday the Prelideut of the United
States leit town; on a journey l-j
\ ernoa,
Dili, (ton of the Bank of Pennfyfaanttt:
* Jacob Morgan, *William Miller, ♦Kear
ny Wharton, *John Svyatiwick, *Cfr>rles
Kiddle, 'Samuel M. Fox, John Barclay,
Samuel Houel, James Crawford. Hugh
Holmes, John Rofs, John Leamy, Matthev/
Lawler, John Fry, jlirl. Godfrey Hags,
William Montgomery, PhilipNi'-kHn, Wii
iiain Sanfoni, Thomas Jlhuou. R. Ralfton,
Sand Ford, Waller Stewart, CharleiPettit,
C. Stocker, George Pennock.
Thole Directors marked with a (tar, were
cljofeti bv the legislature : the other nine
teen by che (iockholders,
The Directors have chosen the fotowijjg;
gentlemen officers of the bank—John Barc
lay, Esq. president; Edward Fox, cafltier;
George -Hughes,, firft teller John Knapp,
(econd teller; Fichird Gardner, principal
book-keeper; Edward Faris,difconm clerk;
Samuel Potts, transfer clerK; and Thomas
Aufiey, runner.
There has been much ink-lhed in New-
York lately, occalloned by the words.
" Theatre Royal," being printed Gil the
tickets <.f one of-the players. A
writer in the Diary in the following hi:-
morous remarks 6n the fubjefct:
'• 1 much approve of his idea of Theatre
Rayhl—it it certainly very proper, for it
dignifies our iniigniftcant ciiy. which, but
ior the Tpirired i xertions of our Englilh
friends. ir,i;>ht b? forgotten. You may
have obferped, Sir, ai you have pafll-d along
the ft reelt,fgns thus inCcrifcfd—A. B. mer
chant from London—G. U. hatter from
London—F. taylorfrOmLondon—Brufli
maker, tallow chandler, dentil!, barber,
walher woman, shoe fciaijc, &c. &c. from
Loudon. This f.ie«s they are acquainted
with the paffiorts the Americans have for
Britiih exports, and I doubt not, but that
In a little time, we ihall be so far polifntd,
that we (hall be supplied with lawyers,
clergymen, afj'emllymen, Cwgteh, aid
Rrejidint, all from LONDON ! ! !"
BRITISH DEBTS.
Ot Friday the yth inflant, the Judges of
the Federal Court, held in the city of
Richmo.d, cave tlieir opinions on the im
portant fuhj'e»l of the payment of the
iJritifn debts, which has engrojled the at
tention of the-court for several days past.
The points before the court were—
ilt. Whether the Britilt d«bts were re
coverable in this stats, the ails of the Vir
ginia Aflemb y having prohibited the rcco
\ i ry, whicb acts passed prior to the adoption
of rhe eoallitution <>i the Unite d States i
id.. Whither the payments made into
the Loan office were rot complete bar; to
the plaintiff's scUon for so muih as was
paid ?
, 3d. As thtf'Bjfihlilv'e trtafy h: d if
broken by the government of Great-Bri-.
a : n. whether the treaty ot peace Ihonlll
be carried into eiieel o.i the part of Ame
rka!
And, laflly, Whether the debtor was not
annihilated by the diiioliitf6n of the go
vernment,. on Vbe 4tlVilay of J\i-ly, 17;»6 ? .
The court were unaniniov.tlv' of opinion
on the /It,'3d and lstipoiilta, for tlie plain
tiff, cpnlider'yig the adoption of the con-.
fti.tiiljoD as a repeal of ail laws in chp'-li
tion to the tveaiy of peace, which, by that
adoption, had become the fiiprcme iaw c;f
rife iar.A ; ants upon this ground gave judg
ment for tlfe plaintiff on the (irfl point. On.
the third they were of opt.Jjo;). that the ■
court could not taTce notice of a breach of
treaty, if fitch,did erjill, without a decla
ration to that effcit from the Congiefs of
the United StStes. 611 11 i e-1 a ft, g vejcdg-.
utent for tlie plaintiff, as the piea of the.
defendant cotild not he fnpporred by the
law 3 antt usages of nations- t)n the ftcor.d
point, the court were divided, Mr. Jay,,
c hies Jufticc of the United States, for the.
plaintiffs, Mr. Iredell arid Mr-Griffin for '
the defendants—upon that plea thretj, judg- ;
ineht was entered fbr the defendants, a
majority of the court fuppof.ng, thi't as.
that law had been carried into complete
efiect bifore the treaty of peace, ami as by
that law thed'fendant wasdifchargerffrom"
the debt, the treaty of pcace could not
again charge him.
English Bankruptcies.
It may serve to {hew to our readers the
extent and nature of the bankruptcies,
which have created 16 rtAich diitrefs in
Great Britain, >vere we to the profef
uons of the seVeral bankrupts. In the lln
gle Caiette of M.ry 4th, we find, a cutler,"
carpenter and builder, jeweller,W-obl-ltap- ,
ler, woolen-draper, liifuor-meichant, vic
tualler, bill-broker, watch-maker, look
iqg-glafs manuiaclurer, taylor, mercer,"
loaj> boiler, innholder, mer
chant. oilnwh, boulting c!nth-w ea\ er, coal-'
merchant, linen-draper, cheesemonger, ha
berdadier, wine and brandy merchant,
clothier, lliopkeeper, grocer, and dyer.
Died, at Bath, the Marquis de GAGEs, s(
French Refugee, aged. Si- —In the tngliln
Miffiiippi fchejne, i.e acqUirtd propeny to
the nominal value sis thirteen millions hei l-
Three niiliions w ere then oficred by liiui
for the crown of alarms ftnj,
for the dominion of Sardinia. Upon the
failure of the stock, he became iuipintr
ifhed, and with his lady, retired to a pro--
fctot of finti : gc.'.', ii; th-* nuiiVi of Jjlt-nSVN E W - Y O R K, June 20.
At a meeting en Monday the 17th inft
the Tammany Society had the pleasure of
the company of Citizen Hauterivc, the
Consul from the French nation to New
York, of Citizen Dll Plaine, Consul to
Boston, and Citizen Captain Bbinpard, of
the Ambuscade Frigate, with several of
his officer*. The Grandr Sachem upon
their being introduced-, addressed them in
the following animated manner:
Citizen s of Frantic
YOU now behold before yo« a band of
Freemen who with an enthusiasm which
words can not defcribtr, regard you as of
the famegrrat family with themselves, even
as the fona of freedom. You behold fa
mily of brethren, who are bound in an in
diffolvable union, by the, remembrance of a
glorious contest, peculiar to the one you
and your countrymen are engaged in —You
behold a society, who in this temple have
eredted an altar to freedom, and hold them
selves bound to prcftrve upon it a bright
and inextinguishable flame. You behold a
body of free citizens, anxious to manifeU
to your nation the warmth of their affec
tions, and the congeniality of their senti
ments—to manifeft to their enemies at
home, tho' so feeble as fcarte to merit at
tention, that the principles they degrade
are their only protection—to manifeft to
their enemies abroad, that the full enjoy
ment of civil liberty is pe*fe£lly conCltent
■with the full reflraint of licentiousness; that
the knowledge of freemen forms an irflii
ence more powerful to restrain, than the
rod of the despot : To manifell to their
countrymen of the United States, their at
tention to the general government, and
also t' e regularity, the peace, and the re
fpeftabili yof the policc of this city : To
m-inifcft to t! e world that the compkte
enjoyment ofliberty, inspires an exultation
a:>d enthuliafm of happiness, which no time
or eircumflance can extinguish : To man
ifeft to you the pleasure we receive in meet
ing on the sacred ground the defenders of
freedom, and of the indefeafable rights of
■man.
To which Citizen Hanterive replied :
Citizens of America—Brethren 0}
the Tammany Society,
WE can r.ot leave this sacred place
without teftifying to you our real senti
ments. Brethren, friends, accept of our
real thanks ; of the purity of our hearts ;
of feiitiments of the mofl: ten er attach
ment, which yourlelves have imprefTed on
our minds.
You were the firlt born sons of libeity ;
your birth preceded outs. And after us
the whole univerfc will ent;-r into the fa
mily of a free people. We are friends, for
we have the fame interefb, and the fame
dangers threaten us. We aie charged
w th the noble taflc to-fiibdae the power of
tyrants ; and you, citizens of a country
•where despotism is deflroyed, you are
charged to prevent its refurrc&ion. Watch
brethren—yea be watchful over the cradle
of freedom ! We are going to conquer its
enemies—after the victory, we will join
our laurels with yours, and under the fba
dow of the tree of liberty, the whole uni
verle will enjoy permanent happiness.
After which the society partook of a
plain repaft,prepared for the occasion. The
Grand Sachem gave a number of toasts, a
mong which were the following :
1. Success to the airoy of France in the
cause ofliberty.
2. Prdident Washington,
3. The National Convention of Fvanc«.
4. In memory of the brave Americans
who fell on Bunkers bill, in the cause of
their country.
5. In memory of those Gallic r!eroes :
who fell at Jamappe,.in defence of liberty
and their country.
6. May the ties that unite America and
France never be. broken.
In the course of the evening a number
_qf patriotic songs were sung, and hilarity
and congeniality of fentimeiW prevailed.
The whole was conducted witk the
greatefl order- and decorum. At ten o'
clock the guefls retired, after, exprefiing
the higbefl fatisfaaion of the friendly and
affe&ionate manner in which they had
been treated.
Duel between the Duke of 1 ork and Prince
Frederick of Orange
A gentleman in this city has received a
letter from his friend in Bristol, via
dated April 30th, ia which he mentions,
that " The iladtholder iflued sn order for
no troops to be absent from their garvifons
or encampments—which the duke of York
took umbrage at, faying, none but a Bri
ton should (command a Briion, r.nd spoke
in fuel) language as could not be brooked
by the ftadtholder's son, prince Frederick
of Orange : a duel was the confequenee,
in which the Dutchman was severely
wounded.'*
A"ejfrs. GhiMs £9" Swaine,
Be pleased to insert the following ex
tradt, that the liberal conduct of the Re
venue officers and Merchants of London
derry may be made public :
ExtraSl of a litter from th<% Majter of tin
Jhrp Mary, at Londonderry, to hu vivnt >
in NetuT'irk.
" We may now think ourselves very for
tunate, for through th* imposition of Di
ver, we were near losing our (hip. When
he applied to you in Ne*'-Y«rk, little did
we tin k v/e had a fnviggler to deal with ;
in two of the calks which we supposed tc
contain flax-feed, were concealed two hun
dred and four pieces of nankeens, which
being fufpefted by the Kevenue Officers,
Oive-f went on (hore and informed that he
had na. keens on board ; upo i which Mr.
Ne vburgh, the Collector, feixed the (hip,
telling me at the fame time that he v/ns
obliged to do his duty, but that I might
depend upon his afliftaiice in my unfortu
nate situation. I immediately (by-the ad
vice of the principal merchants in this
place) gave in a petition to Sir Hugh
Hill, Bart, the principal officer of his ma
jetty's revenue, who being informed that
every body on board the ship (Diver ex
cepted) was quite ignorant of tks nan
keens be'r.g on board, ordered the fitip to
be fold at auction according to law, evtry
body being convinced that 1 had not
been concerned in the smuggling,. gen*,
toufly declined to bid againll me, and 1
purchased the Mary from the revenue ol
Ireland foi Tes Guineas when it wa;
generally expe&ed there would have been
a fine of 500 geineas on her."
BALTIMORE, June 14.
A well meant hint to the Executive of the
United States.
Translated Extrad of a letter from 1 re
fpe&able merchant at Rotterdam, [A
Hollander} to his friend in this town,
dated 20th December j 792.
" The French troops are near enough
to- our frontiers, and if they succeed in
driving the Prussians and Auftrians ovei
the Rhine, it is likely they may pay us s
visit, which will be altogether difagrceabk
to some, who, fhrw by their publication?
how much-they apprehend. The French
emigrants are now every where as much a;
profcritwd. What palpable con tradition!
in July it was publilhed, th« ro asylum
ffiould be afforded to " their kings tr?i
tors," and now, as this king is inpprifoned,
and shall probably be sentenced to die on
the ftaifold, it is prohibited to harbour the
very men who espoused his cause- In the
firft instance, the American minister, or
agent, Shott, condutted himfelf not as an
envoy of a republic, but as a minion of def
potifro I he was among those who then
(hewed the French minister the mod dif
refpeft. How indeed, can it be otherwise :
My lord Auckland is his counsellor, with
out whose advice he does nothing.
"P. S. 21ft December, what I wrote
concerning Short i 3 true. He is Auck
land's friend. Make what use you pkafe
of it—it may be of service."
In addition to the above, the editors
are authorised to assert, that letters from
France to fereral merchants in this town,
received this week, bring information, that
the British cabinet are tampering with
our minister there, Mr. Govemeur Morris,
for the purpose of drawing these States
into a coalition of the rulers of Europe a
gainst France.
The profpecta of* our farmers in the back
country seems to have been considerably
checked by a recent circumftan e. They
had contemplated great benefits from tra
ding down the Ohio and carrying their
produce to their own vefleis ; but it is now
said, that a Ftench house lately eftablilhed
at New Orleans,,has obtained frem go
vernment a cotnmiffion to contract for
10,000 barrels of flour annually, io the
United States, which consequently wiii
throw a monopoly of tire fupphes into the
hands of a single firm, and although it may
for a time make no material difference
with refpeft to the present interest of our
western farmers ; still they will retain a
jealousy agaiml tiiofe who r*,\v limit their
freedom in commercial fpeculatior.s, and
there can be but little doubt that they '"ill
ultimately force a trade down those rivers,
which nature h.13 lsid down for the benefit
ind convenience of all America.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
BY MATHEW CAR-EY
No. ijß» Market-Street,
Imbell'lhed with a MAP of South Americ:
SU. Vli, Of a NEWJSYSTEM OF MODERIS
geography.
JR, A GEOGRAPHICAL, HISTORICAL
AND COMMERCIAL GRAMMAR}
And prcfent State of the Several
KINGDOMS OF THE WORLD.
CONTAINING
[. The figures, motions, and distances of the pi a
nets, according to the Newtonian system anc
the latert observations.
11. A general view of the earth cor.fidered ns ;
planet ; with fevexal ulclul geographical defi
nitions and problems.
Irt. The grand division of the globe Into land
and water, continents and ifiands.
IV. The situation and extent ©f empires, king
doms, dates, provinces, and colonies.
V. Their climates air, foil, vegetable produdi
on?, metals, minerals, natural curiont.es, l«*as ;
rivers, bays, capes, promontories, and lakes.
VI. The bircis and oeaits peculiar to each country
VII. O&lervations on the changes that have beer
any where observed upon the face of natur<
since the early periods oJ hiltory.
VIII. The hi (lory and origin of nations ; thru
forms of government, religion, laws, revenues
taxc»i naval md military rtrength.
IX. The genius, manners,. cuftoms,-and habit:
of the proiHe.
X. Their language, learning, arts, sciences, ma.
nufa&ures, and commerce.
XI. The chief cities, Ibu&ures, ruins, and ar
tificial cuiiofitirs-.
XII. The latitude, bear'nes, and <3if
taraces of th« principal places iron* Philadelphia
TO WHICH ARE ADDED.
I. A Geographical Index, with the names, ant
places a Iphabetically arranged.
11. A Table of the Coins oi all Nations, acd thei
value in Money.
UK A Chronological Tablaof rcmarkiblo events
fiom the Creation to the pre (eat Time.
By WILLIAM GtJTHRIJS, Rfq.
The Altronomical-Part by Jam-s Fergufon,F.RS
To ivbicb ba-ve been added %
The late Discoveries of Dr. Herfchel, and othe;
eminent Altronomers.
Tbe firjl American edition, improved
ar-d grsatiy enlarged.
The pnbliftier of this work, thankful for the pat
ronage with which he has be«n honored, sub
mics the preterit number to the infpe&ion o
his feliow-citirens, and lays before them
The terms of publication .
I. This geography fliail be pubhlh<rd in forty
• eight weekly numbers, each containing tvven
ty-four pages of letter prels
-11. In the course of the publication will be de
livered the following maps :
i* The world. 2. Europe. 3; Sweden, Den
rnaik, Norway, and Finland. 4. Rotiia. r.
Scotland. 6. England and Wales. 7. Ireland.
S. France. 9. Seven United Provinces. 10. Au
ifrian and French Netherlands. 11. Germany.
;z. Switzerland. 13. Poland. 14. Spain and
Portugal. 15. Italy. 16. Turkey in Europe.
17. Alia. IS. China. 19. Hindoltan. 20. Af
rica. it. Ncr«h Ameiica. 22. britiili Arac.
rica. 23. Weft-Indies. 24. South America
25. Plaii'fphere of the earth. *26. Countiit;
round the north pole. *27 Discoveries TOadt
by Cnptains Cooke and Clerke. *".3. New.
Hampihire. *29. Maflachufetts. *30. Con-
Petiicut. *31. Rhode-JHand. *3?., Vermont.
n33- New-Vork. *34. New-Jersey.- *35.
*e:infylvania and Delaware. *30. Maryland.
*37- Virginia. *3s. North Carolina. *39.
Suuth»-Carolina. *49* Georgia. *41. Tlit
6'phere. *42. The Copetnican lyftem-
N. C. AiVthe maps marked with stars ar?
added to this ecficion, exclusive of those ia the
last London edition.
That no disappointment may arise from fub
fcribcrs expedling what the publiftier neither pro.
mifes nor is able to perform, he gives this earlv
& explicit notice, that to some of the States it wili
beimpofiible for him te give maps fully accu»arre,
no late surveys having .been made ; and it is hard,
iy necelTarv to oblerve, that it falls not within
his plan to go to the exoenfe of surveys. But in
every inltance, he wiLl avail himfelf of the btU
materials extant : and such cortedVions and addi
uons as his ,utinoft exertions can pjocure, (hall
be made.
111. The geography of the United States is un
, dertaken by gentlemen of literary abilities, who
have engaged to give a ropre foil and fatisfacto
ry account ot it than any ever published. li
will-extend to 250 or 300 pages, although in
the British edition, and even in that of 1 792,
it make; only about 30.
IV. ShouM the work exceed ,forfv-nght num
bers, the farplua will be delivered gratis to the
fubferib^rs.
y. The p ice of ea*b number will be a quarter
dollar, to be paid on delivery.
Vl..Such fubferibers as-do.not choose-to riceive
the work in numbers, are to pay three dollars
at the time of subscribing*
The printer, anxious to recder this woi-k a?
perfect as thejsature of it will allow, m.:l tar
neftly request?, that f««h gentlemen, throughout
rhe United States, as have it in their power, will
furniih hira with documents for correcting the
pad errors in the geography of America, and for
furnifliing a more complete system of geograph)
than has yet appeared.
The title page, lift of fubferiber's names, with
'he account of the Newtonian system, &c. fire,
will be given in the47th aud43th numiseri.
K. si. "fiie fu'ufcrlbers, pußlok we 3P-'
neral are requeued to consider rhe <vwy
material circumftarce—The hondon —
cion is fold here, for 6ffcen a'tafciwisgfo iit
contains onjy 25 maps and plates, an^ci#
graphy of the United States, as has beem <3&>lfcTrwft
above, only about 30 pages—'whereas* CarnV
edition will contain 41 maps and pla.tfs,anrf have
two hundred pages of letter press mo-re* Axs6 »£■
need not be observed, that the feventeew una;* to
are of more importance to Avna'-cs.
by far, than the 25 London ones. T»£<*M«ir*2~
tion will apply with equ-al force to the tetter prcfe
additions.
The maps will be published in fu-cfa < '
foccefiion as they are engraved, and -di-reDfoffS
t)e printed for the proper manner of placing tht.'X
by the bookbinder.
May 2.2.
» | j I
I Have claims to about two hundred and,
fifty thouland acres of in the ftateof
KeR tuc ' ce y> ' n different parts of that €000 try?
some of which 1 know to be equal to any; alfr
as wheh 1 am inclined to dispose of, either by
sntire sale, or by admitting o»f, or two par
:o whom the agency on the whtle will be com**
mitted.
One fourth of the contra# will be r?qu?rft? 'it
hs»d, e'rthsr in cafli, merchandif'e, or such
as roav be converted ro active use, the refidu?.
may fee apportioned• in convenient infla!rae*ts»
The purchasers to give security, on the iar>d,
>r olberways,as suits them.
Knowing that there is a prejudice a-gain* the
titles of land in that {late, which is more general
than just, I am willing to stipulate in the con
tra#, that a difcou'.r, or dedudion, shall be
uade, where any land may be loft, by reason of a
iefeftivc title.
Any person inclining to such a purcnafe, is rz
queftcd to write to me by post, in answer to
whom, more«particuiar inform2lion wii! be given.
hznrt BANKS.
Richmond March ac, 1793. aaw td-
Philadelphia, June 17. J
On FRIDAY the 28th*inli ant*
at 5 o'clock v. M.
Will be Sold at Public Auflioa,
vitF. Bailey's. No. jj6, Hi.jh-ilreet,
All the
printing; materials
of THOMAS LANG, late deceased, con
futing- of the allowing articles, viz.
One Brirtt'mg-Prefs.wirti a Bark, J nardd
Stc. fiva Chafes; one Rnpoling Stone an*,,
Stand with Drawers ; t«o Cafe Sirames ;
four Gallies ; three Conipoling Sticks }
thirteen pair of CJifes.
TYPE S.
One Fount of Paragon, about Bolb.
Que Do; of Pica, about sooib.
Ofte Do. of Blirgsois face on a Long
Primer body, about JSCT .b.
FRANCIS BAIL! V, 7 Fxecntors
SAMUEL WF.I lIEREL, \ CCU
■—
To the P U B L I C.
JSJOTWITHSTANDINC all the endeavors
of the ariltocratic party to prevent the citi
zens of the United Stares fiom encoui t>-e
Work entitled MAN UNDECEIVED, whirh £»
proposed to print by lublcription on the 2<jth Feb*
1 art, I feel nryl'elf happy in informing tne true
Kepublicans, that the lame will be put without
jelay to the .press, as tVe f®bfcriprion has beer*
f'lcccfsfully filled. Such unexpetfed fuecti. 1
rv.ve to the favor of feveial zealous friends. whe>
aiftjnguiflied themfeJves in the undertaking.
1 think ic uaneccllary to make any remark- at;,
prefrot reflecting the work, as rii# world nm.i
loon be enabl«d to pronounce tentencc upon it.
1 hope, there fore, that those wlvofe circumstances
areeafy, aoi whe hold the genveous principle of
democracy, will feel sorry for their indifference-,
with regard to fubferibing, in as much as tbr
ivorlc will confound the enemies of Reputli
canifdK I fiiall, however, rcferve every rcmaik
upon the fufcjcd for the Appendix to the woik.
1 have the pleafurt to exurefs my puolic than! e
to thofir benevolent American Printers through
the United .States, who had the kindnef&to inlort
:ny former adveitifement in tneir newspaper i_,
and I request them to give the prelent a place.,
delirmg them to fend me -ne of their papers Con
taining it, that I may become acquainted with
my friends, and fesd them a copy of the said work
as a toiif n of' my gratitude.
Those Printers *nty should take notice of thfc
requell who are true requblicaab, and jriends '.*>
mankind, a character acquiied »nl-y in the:
Ichool of democracy.
JAMES PH. Pt?GLJ.A#
; Lare fwom interpreter of i " bpannn gCc
June ji, *793.
JJUST PUBLISHKD,
And to be fold by THom A s Dft nsoN. Wilf
liam YOVNG, RoßxaT C.ampbf.Ll.-
Meifrs. Rice and Co. and: John M'
Culuoch, No. i. North Third-flreet,-
aN EXAMINATION of the late ]>ro
* ceedin«s iji refprftine the
official conduit of the Secretary <v the.
Treaftiry ; with Obft rvationp, or. the
application of loans from Holland, nejoc:
ated nntler the aits of the 4th and 12th fit*
Augult 1790. —The price of the abov :
pamphlet is threeJixteenths of a dollar, or.
is 4d. 1-2. Aprii-24- 2aw »t.
PR INTKO' B T
CHILD S and S W A IN E.
at t sIH o?y ICE Mo.ai'.q, Hi r, h-«>T hE z
N£-AR riFTH'STJItIXj
rnii,AOiirs!&»