Numb. 30 of Vol. ll.] S A T U R D A Y, February 9, 1793.
[Correspondence between Mr. Addison
and Mr. Clvmer ; continued from
our last.]
Copy of a letter from Mr. ClyMer to
Mr. Addison.
Pittlburg, Oct. i, 1792.
Sir,
T AM favoured with yours of the 29th oi
September, and am sorry to observe m
it the several grounds of objection to a
compliance with the request made in mine
of the 28th.
I did not mean you should act under a
delegated power, having no power my
felf but to point out to the Magistrate cer
tain witnefles, who might be examined by
him. This, Sir, I piefumed might have
been done by me as well at a diitance of
twenty miles, as in your immediate pre
sence ; thatprefence, nevertheless, I fbould
have fought, but for an opinion founded
on the general apprehension here, and
which you will pardon me in faying, your
letter is by no means fitted to remove ; for
if in the performance of a judicial duty not
voluntarily engaged in, but properly called
to, you, who (land so well with your peo
ple, could not hope to cfcape the odium,
what ought the promptor himfelf, and
one too in my predicament, to expert ?
fomethin;?; beyond the paffivenefs of hatred.
Neither to avoid this hazard, would I so
much affront my charaftcr as a public 2-
genc, as to accept the protection, which
you fay maybe had of any of those per fans
composing theaffembly at Pittsburgh, who,
in putting the officers of the revenue un
der the ban of society, by which they ne
cefi'arily ceafeto ast, and a law to operate,
have in effect undertaken to annul the law
itfelf; for the law exists but through its
officers 3nd in its execution. Thus be
ginning the measures of oppofitron, where
the mod decided enemies of government
wide* l • a bciri ar.il cpec hol*>
tility to its authority.
But could I really propose fafety to my
felf in a place, where the name of him un
der whom I profefs to aft—a name loved
and revered throughout the whole civili
zed world ! has within a few weeks past,
according to proofs in my hand, been pub
licly treated with the utmost scorn and
contumely?
I amnotfo competent to examine the
constitutional motive alSgned for decli
ning my request—a doubt entertained of
the judicial rights of a federal court in this
business, though I can discern through it
another battery raised against the United
States : but it mult seem plain to the plain
est underltantling, that it mult be an indif
penfible ast of any government to have the
cognizance of crimes committed against
itfelf, and not to be obliged to devolve 011
any other the care either of its honour or
of its defence ; neither do I well compre
hend, why an offence against the union
can be an offence only, as it may hap
pen, to diftnrb the peace or order of one
of its component members; for on this
ground. Sir, can the pretentions of the
states individually, to exclulive jurisdiction,
only reft.
But, Sir, were my personal apprehensi
ons go: over, to what purpose does your
invitation to Walhington tend ; for propo
ling to ast only through you as the most
refpeftable magistrate, howcouldthe (hort
ening any distance between us change any
the circnmftances which have disinclined
you to serve me.
I am, &c.
GEO. CLYMER.
Mr. Addison to Mr. Clymer.
Washington, Oft. 2, 1792
Sir,
I RAVE been favoured with your letter
(if ift of October by captain Faulkner: I
might have understood your meaning, and
better conveyed mine, had your firft let
ter any thing resembled your second. It
■was your commifiion and not my own that
you requested me to execute, and that so
far as you explainedit to me was to take
depositions and engage one or two of the
belt informed witnesses (having provision
made for thdir expence) to goto York
before nthof October, when the circuit
federal court will begin its fellion. And
your reason for making this request was
not drawn from any obligations of duty,
but from the danger of the business and a
delire of substituting to this danger my
person instead of yours.
This Sir, is as faithful an abstract of
your firft letter as I can make. In justice
to your second, I mult acknowledge it is
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhcd Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars pir annum..
free from those objections which I made
to the firfl, and as it contains an argument,
on my answer, the respeCt which I enter
tain for your judgment, draws from me a
lew observations.
In speaking of your personal fafcty and
in fuggetting the gentlemen of the com
mittee as areafonable fourceof confidence,
I spoke my opinion without any design to
deceive or intuit. And in declining your
commission, I gave no evidence of danger 1
for I argued from your fears, not mine
Whatever fears I may have, I am a Gran
ger to myfelf, if they are capable of re
tlraining me from duty.
Your argument as to the powers of the
federal courts, might be conclusive, if it
were the right, and not the expediency of
its exercise, that I question. Whatever
battery you may think this againlt the
United States, it is not raised for the pre
sent occasion. From the firft moment that
I saw the constitution, I believed as I yet
believe, that the judicial system w» im
practicable if the state judiciary and the
ellential privileges of the citizens Were to
bepreferved. That the power is plainly
given bv the conllirution and laws of the
United States, I have no doubt ; that
it never ought to have been given, I have
none, also. And you may call me a;
croaker, but I will venture to predict, that'
it ever these powers are brought into ex
ercise, the consequences which I hove sta
ted will ensue. Judge then if with these
fentimcnts, and in my flation, I (honldde
ferve to be thought either a good officer or
a good citizen, if without necessity or ur
gent reason, I contributed to such effects.
That the name of the Prelident of the
United States, has in this place, and with
in a few weeks pad, been publicly treated
with the utmost fcornand contumely I ne
ver before heard. There may be mobs
and blackguards in every place, and in this
,>!ac£ Ua t a.t-iay per haps-ttf less cf rfiEC-fH-*
ly adulation with which that great man
hath been punithed and insulted. than in
many other places ; but I will venture to
fay, that in no place can there be more
true respeCt for his virtues or more man
ly gratitude for his services, than here
and that such expressions were not used
here by any other person, or in any other
circumflances than might be found in the
High street of Philadelphia.
I (hould not take notice of your expref
(ion, my invitation to XVajhington, but that
coupled with other parts of your letter,
it insinuates an intention to deceive. I
with a man whose Underttanding I esteem.
to think otherwise of me, and in truth I
aflure you that I thould be very glad to lee
you in this place ; and I hope you would
then think better of us, than upon report
(and am sorry we have given too much
reason for it) you may do ; but I gave no
invitation, I only attempted to remove
those obstacles in your way to this place
that I understood you complained of.
Language receives different meanings,
according to the previous impreflions of
different persons. This may make both
you and me discern a sentiment in the ex
pressions of each other which neither of
us intended to convey. You will not un
derstand me right, if you do not believe
that I am with respeCt,
Sir, yours. &c. &c.
ALEX. ADDISON.
Treasury Department, February 4, 1793.
S I R,
r HAVE loft no time in preparing, as far
as has been practicable, confidently with
the course of tails, the several flatements
required by the resolutions of the Hotife of
Representatives of the twenty-third of last
month ; and I have concluded to add to
them such further flatements as appeared
to me necetfary to convey fully the infor
mation, which is underitood to be the ob
ject of those resolutions. It was my firfl
ntention to submit these flatements collec
tively, with such explanatory remarks as
the occasion might demand. But finding
on experiment, from the extent and variety
of the matter involved in the resolutions
that more time will be requisite for a full
developement of it, than I had anticipated,
confederations of weight in my mind have
determined me to present the different parts
of the fubjeCl successively. Among other
advantages incident to this course of pro
ceeding, will be that of having it in my
power to give a more accurate and mature
view of the intire fubjeft, without too great
a dereliction of the current business of the
department. In executing the tail; I pro
pose to myfelf, I Jfhall rely on the icdul
gence of the House to a latitude of obser
vation, corresponding with the peculiar
ciFcumftances of the cafe.
The resolutions to which I am to answer
fls'e not moved ithout a pretty copious
■..'ifj«-'.v of the reasons on which they were
liffcluled- These reasons are before the
public, through the channcl of the press.
They are of a nature to cxtfite attention—
to beget alarm—to inspire doubts. De
ductions ol'a very extraordinary complex
ion may, without forcing the sense, be
drawn from them.
I feel it incumbent upon me to meet the
suggestions which have been thrown out
with decision and explicitnefs. And while
I hope I {hall let fall nothing inconfiften
with that cordial and unqualified refpef
which I feel for the House of Reprefenta
tives; while I acquiesce in the fufficienc;
of the motives, that induced, on their part
th«- giving a prompt and free course to th<
inveiligation proposed—l cannot but re
solve to treat the fubjeft with a freedom
which is due to truth and to the confciouf
neft of a pure zeal for the public interest
I begin with the last of the four refolu
rio..s; because it is that which seeks infor
mation relating to the mail delicate anc
important of the that have beer
hazarded.
Here however I have to regret the uttei
impossibility of a ftri£t compliance with the
terms of the refoiution. The practicabili
ty of such a compliance would suppose no
thilg less, than that ftnee the last day o:
December, one thoufund seven hund-ec
and ninety-two, all the accounts of the col
leilors of the cufioms and other officers o
the revenue, throughout the whole exten
of ihe United States, could be digefled
m;, je up and forwarded to theTreafury
could be examined there, fettled and car
rif, into the public books under their pro
Pjfiieads: in a word, that all the account
iWH'i'f?*?/;...';, receipts ...Id txpe-tidiutf*
of rhisextenfive country could have paflee
through a complete exhibition, examina
tion and adjustment, within the fliort pe
riod of twenty-three days.
tt was made (as I prefumefrom the re
fult) fatisfa&orily to appear to a committei
of the House of Representatives, who weri
charged during the last session with fram
inga direction to the Treasury for bringing
forward an annual account of receipts anc
expenditures, that the course of public bu
fine ft would not admit of the rendering o:
such an account in less than nine months
after the expiration of each year; in con
fortuity to which idea their report iva
farmed, and an order of the House eftab
lifted.
I need do nothing more to evince the im
practicability of an exact ccAipliance wit!
the refoiution in question, than to observe
tJiat it is even more comprehensive, thougl
with less detail, than the order of the House
to which I have alluded.
To evince nevertheless my readiness te
do all in my power towards fulfilling the
views of the House and throwing light up
on the tranfatlions of the department, 1
{hall novv offer to their inspection fundi)
statements marked A, AB, C, D, E, F.
which contain as far as is at this time polfi
ble, the information deiired ; and with fuf
ficient certainty and accuracy to afford fa
tisfaction on the points of inquiry involvec
in the refoiution.
The statement A, {hews in ajbftract the
whole of the receipts into and expenditures
from the Treasury, commencing with the
firft of January and ending with the last ol
Dc*etriber one thousand seven hundred anc
ninety-two, corresponding with the ac
counts of the Treasurer. These account:
have been regularly fettled up to the enc
of September, and copies have been laid be
fore the two houies of Congress. The ac
count for the quarter terminating with the
year, has not yet paffeel through the form:
of settlement, but is under examination,
and will, no doubt, be fettled as it stands—
the manner of conducting the business, and
the usual care and accuracy of the officer
concerned, leaving very little room to ap
prehend mif-ftateinent, or error. A copy
of this account is herewith fubiflitted in the
schedule marked C.
This statement takes up the balance of
the general account of receipts and expen
ditures to the end of the year one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-one, as reported
to the House of Representatives within the
firft week of the prefen: session, and conti
nuing it down to the end of one thousand
seven hunilred and ninety-two, {hews a ba
lance then in the Treasury of seven hundred
and eighty-three thousand four hundred
[Total No. 134.]
and forty-four dollars and fifty-one cents.
The statement B, is a more comprehen
sive document. It is a general account of
income and expenditure. It Ihews not
merely the actual receipts of money intothe
Treaiiiry, but the whole amount of the na
tional revenues, from the commencement
of the present government to the conclusion
of the year one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-two, as well out Jlanding as col
lected—the proceeds of domestic loans—the
whole amount of the fuins which have been
drawn into the United States, on account
of the foreign loans—and all other monies
from whatever source, which have accru
ed within the period embraced by the
statement.
These items form the debit fide of the
account, amounting to seventeen millions
eight hundred and seventy-nine thousand
eight hundred and twenty-five dollars and
thirty-three cent«.
The credit fide consists of two items :
I ■ The whole timotint of the actual expen
ditures to the end of the year one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-one, as stated in
the general account of receipts and expen
ditures before referred to. 11. sThe whole
amount of the actual expenditure during
the year one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-two, as (pecified generally in the
statement A, and particularly in the several
quarterly accounts of the Treasurer, a
mounting to twelve millions seven hundred
and (ixty-five thousand one hundred and
twenty-eight dollars and eighty-three
cents.'
The balance of this account of income
and expenditure is consequently five mil
lions one hundred and fourteen thousand
(:x hundred and ninety-fix dollars and fifty
cents; which corresponds with the exceft
of the public income (including the pro
ceeds of loans, foreign and. domestic) be
yond the actual expenditure, or more pro
>-•••. V. . ....r. tiicof
the year one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-two. This of course is exclusive of
thftfe parts of the proceeds of foreign
loans, which have been left in Europe to
be applied there ; the amount, application
and balance of which are exhibited, as far
as they are yet known at the Treafurv, in
the ltatement No. I. of my late report on
foreign loan 3.
This balance as noted in the statement B,
is composed of the following particulars.
I. Cash in the Treasury [pcr
statement A.] Dollars 783,444. 51
11. Cash in the Bank of the
United States and the of
fices of discount and de
polit of New-York and
Baltimore, not yet palled
to the account of the
Treasurer, [per state
ment AB.] - - 605,83. c 9
111. Proceeds of Amsterdam
bills remaining in deposit
in the Bank of North-A
lnerica,including the flint
of one hundred and fifty
fix thousand five hundred
and ninety-five dollars
and fifty-fix cents advan
ced by the bank without
imereft, wjlich is credit
ed in the general account
of reeeipts and expendi^
tures [statement A.] 177,998.80
IV. Proceeds of Amsterdam
bills fold, but not yet re
ceived. - - 6/4,593. 02
V. Cash in hands of cblleo
tors of customs, [per ab
ftraftD] - - 151,851.25
VI. Bonds unpaid at the end
of the year one thousand
seven hundred and nine
ty-two, on account of the
duties on imports and
tonnage, and falling due
between that titne and
May one thousand seven
hundred and ninety-four
[per abftraft £.] 2,442,069. jo
VII. Uncollected residue of
duties riiftilled within the
United States [per ab
ftraft F] - - 3 4 J,057- 19
Making together, Dollars 5,116,897
This aggregate somewhat exceeds th£
balance of the accotmt; but in a cafe where
estimates must necefiarily supply the defi
ciency of ascertained results, differences of
this nature are of course. It is at the
fame time fatisfaftory to obt'erve, that the
estimates wiiichhave been heretofore cominunicateii are proved by the oficial do
cuments already received, to have been
eflentially correct.
Iz will no doubt readily occur to the
House, that a very small partipl the excess
which has been Icated is a real surplus of
income. There remain to be fatisfied nu
merous objects of expenditure charged up
on the fund by the which
have been made, that cannot tail ultimately
to exhaust it, probably within forvr or live
htndrsd thousand dollars; winch will be
embraced in the appropriations for thefer
vice of the year one thousand seven hun
dred and ninety-three. A further expla
nation-on this point is reserved for future
communication.
A due comprehension of the statements
now prefeiited mult obviate every idea ol
a balance unaccounted for ; in whatevei
sense the allegation may have been intend
ed to be made.
ll ill re was before any obfeurity on th(
fulii it. it was certainly not the fault of thi:
department. THI tl*e last resolutions, nt
call has been made upon it which rendere<
it proper to exhibit a general vie-.vofthi
public monies and funds—or to fliew th<
amount and lituation of such as were un
applied. Particular calls for particulai
•objects were made, which as I conceiv<
were complied with ; but they were no
coraprehenjive enough to embrace a dif
cloture of that nature.
It could not therefore with propriet;
have been alledg-d, that there was aba
lance unaccounted for—To inter it fron
documents, which contained only a part o;
the necellary information, was not jultilia
ble- Nor could it otherwise happen, thai
that cojclutions, wholly erroneous, woulf
be the consequences of . taking such imper
feci data for guides.
It may be of use, by way of elucidati
on, to point out forne of the molt palpable
feature of the er: or which lias been enter
tained.
The following items are fiated as the ba
sis oi : the supposed deficiency :
Keiidu ot the proceeds of
the foreign bills supposed
to be unapplied (after de
ducing the films furnillied
for St. Domingo, and the
amount of the debt to the
foreign yififer?) , Dollars 1,668,190
Surplus of linlcVngfund, mean
ing I presume that part of
the surplus of the revenue
to tlv. end of the year 1790,
which had not been appli
ed in purchases 400,000
Surplus of revenue of the year
1792, as reported 277,385
-■ „',ii>7s
Dcduct in bank, meaning I
presume the balance of tne
Treasurer's cadi account, 790,642
Balance not accounted for 1,554,933
It appears in the firft place, to have been
overlooked, that in llatement No. 3 of m>
late report cone rning foreign loans, men
tion is made, ha. 011 the 3d of January,
there remained to be received of the pro
ceeds of the foreign bills, fix hundred and
thirty-two thousand one hundred and
thirty-two dollars and two cents; conse
quently that sum could not be confulered
as in the treasury, and ought to be deduct
ed from the supposed deficiency.
A nong the official papers, which it is
inti Kited were consulted, was an original
account, rendered by the bank of the Uni
ted States, of the sales of Amsterdam bills,
shewing a sum of lix hundred and five thou
sand eight hundred and eighty-three dol
lars and eight cents, as having been recei
ved by the bank and two of its offices ol
discount and depolit, for the proceeds ol
those bills. Had that document been 1111-
derflood, it would nave been known, thai
this sum was 111 bank over and above the
balance of the Tieafurer's calh account ;
and this also would have forved to account
for a large part of the supposed deficiency ;
namely, °lix hundred and five thousand
eight hundred and eighty-three dollars
and eight cents. The course ofthistran
fatf ion will be hereafter explained.
But among the misconceptions, which
have obtained, what relates to the surplus
of revenue of the year 1792, is not the
least ftrilcing. The Laws inform (and
consequently no information 011 that point
from this department could have been ne
cellary that credits are allowed upon the
duties on imports, of four, (ix, nine,
twelve months, and in some cases of two
years. Reason diCates, that a surplus in
such cafe, must be conlidered as pollponecl
in the collection or receipt, till all the ap
propriations upon the fund have been fir 11
fatisfied. The account of receipts and ex
penditures to the end of 1791, in polfelfion
of the House, l]iews that at that time, 110
less a sum than Oi>e million eight hundred
and twenty-eight thousand two hundred
* and eighty-nine dollars and twenty-eight
cents of the antecedent duties were out
flanding in bonds. How then could it
have happened, that the surplus of 1792
was fought for in the treasury, at the -very
instant of the expiration of the year—l for
bear to attempt to trace the source of a
mistake so extraordinary !
Let me however add, that of the surplus
in qv.eftion, onehunihed and seventy-two
thousand five hundred and eighty-lour dol
lars and eighty two cents are not payable
till April and May 1794, as will be iVrwi
by the abftratt [£•]
Thus have I not only furniflied a just
and afnrmative view of the real (ituatipnwf
the public account, but havelikewife (hewn,
I trull in a conspicuous manner, fallacies
enough in the ffatenientj from which the
inference of an unaccounted for balance
is drawn, to evince that it is one tHfuc ol
error. In this, I might have gone (till
further, there being scarcely a step of the
whole process, which is not liable to the
imputation of mifapprelienlion. But 1
with not unneceflarily to weary the pati
ence of the House
Another circumstance, to which im
portance has been given, and which
noticed in connection with the fuggeftior
last difcutfed, is a disagreement between
a memorandum in the Treasurer's bank
book, and the llatement reported by me
of the amount of bills drawn at the troi>-
fury upon the foreign fund. A dilagtee
ment no doubt exists, and to the cxteut'ol
live millions seven hundred and lixty thoti
fand one hundred and thirty-eight florins
or guilders.
But the following circumftanees contain
the solution of this disquieting appear
ance.
There will be found in the statement
TA] two several credits each for two mil
lions of dollars, a, for monies received in
to the treasury with correlponding debit:
of equal sums, as for monies paid out ol
the treasury.
But neither the one nor the other did ii
reality take place. The whole is a mere
operation, to accompliih the purposes ol
theiith feftion of the "Act to incorp«
rate the fubferibers to the bank of the
United States ; without an inconvenient
ind unneceflary displacement of fundi.
That section authorises a fubfeription tc
the (lock of the bank, on account of the
jovernment, not exceeding in amount twe
millions of dollars, and provides for the
payment of it out of the monies, which
Ihould be borrowed by virtue of either oi
the acts of the fourth and twelfth of Au
511ft 1790, the firlt making provision for
the public debt, the last for reducing it,
enjoining at the fame time, that a loau
(liould be made of the bank to an equal a
mount. to rcplace the monies, which were
to be applied to the payment of the ftib-
Icription.
It is evident, that nothing could have
aeen more useless, (at the fame time that
it would have been attended with obvious
ilifadvantages to the government) jhar
actually to draw from Europe out oQUje
monies borrowed there, tits IMMf'lift "
for the payment of the fubfeription to ti.
bank, and again to remit out of the loan
which was to be obtained of the bank, 1
"ufficient sum to rcplace such monies, 01
"uch part of them as may have been defti
lcd for the foreign objett. Loss upon ex
change, in consequence of overllockinj
the market with bills—Loss in interest b}
the delays incident to the operation ; anc
which would necefiarily have fufpendet
the ufeful employment of the funds for ;
coniiderable time. Thefearefome of the
tlifadvantages to the government. To the
bank alone could any benefit have ac
crued, which would have been in propor
tion to the delay in restoring or applying
the fund to its primitive destination.—
Such an operation therefore could O11I)
have been jnllified by an indifpolition or
the part of the bank to facilitate the prin
cipal object, without the intervention oi
aitual payment.
But no such difpolition existed. Or
this, as 011 every other occa(ion, a tenjpci
liberal towards the government has cha
ra£terifed the conduct of the directors oi
that institution.
It was accordingly proposed by me, antl
agreed to by them, that the object to be
accomplilhed Ihould be carried into el£e£t,
by a merely formal arrangement. In
this however it was neceflai y to consult
the injunctions of law, anil the principles oi
the constitution of the treasury depart
ment.
These points then were to be effected—
a payment of the fubfeription money tc
vest the government with the property ol
the flock— poflellion of the means of g<iy
ingit, which were to be derived from rhi
foreign fund.'and of course were firftto be
in the treasury, before payment could be
made—the replacing what (houkl be takei
from that fund, by a loan of the bank.
The following plan for these purpose:
was devised and executed by previouscon
cert.
The Treasurer drew bills upon oui
commissioners in Amsterdam for the fbm
requisite to complete the payment on ac
count of the fubfeription. These bills wen
purchased by the bank, and warrants ir
favour of the Treasurer upon the banl
leryed toplace the proceccK in the treasu
ry. Warrants afterwards Kitted upon tin
Treasurer, in favour of the bank, for tht
amount of the fubfeription money, whicl
was receipted for on the part of the bank
as paid. Other warrants then iflued ii
favor of the Treasurer upon ihe bankfoi
equal sums, as upon account of a loan t<
the government; which warrants wert
falistied by a re-delivery to t!je Treafurei
of the bills that had been drawn upon the
commiflioners. In the last place warrants
were drawn upon the Treasurer to replacc
the monies supposed by the arrangement
to be drawn from the foreign fnnd, which
perfected the operation. But from the
detail which has been given, it will be
seen, that in fact no monies were either
withdrawn from or returned to that fund.
The bills were cancelled, anhexed to the
warrants, and are lodged in the treasury,
as vouchers of the tranfaftion.
These bills were for two separate turns,
each two millions four hundred and feven
ty-five thousand guilders, equal to a milli
on of dollars; the payment having been
divided into two parts, upon certain equi
table coniiderations relative to the divi
dend of the firft half year.
This tranfaclion explains four millions
nine hundred and fifty thousand guilders
of the sum which forms the disagreement
between the memorandum in the Treasu
rer's bank book and the statement repor
ted by me.
The reiidile is thus explained. The
sum of one million two hundred and thir
ty seven thousand five hundred guilders,
directed to be drawn for on the thirtieth
of November, was directed to be compri
sed in one or more bills, as the bank
(hould delire. It was at firft placed in
one bill ; but this bill was afterwards re
turned, with a request that it might be
onverted into smaller films. The bill
returned was cancelled , and in lieu of it,
there had been furnilhed prior to the firli
of January of the present year, nine hun
dred and thirty four thousand five hundred
guilders—the balance three hundred and
three thousand then remaining to be fur
nilhed—Thefumof ninehundred and thir
ty four thousand live hundred guilders con
feqii tly appears twice iu the memoran
dum.
These two funis of four millions five
hundred and ninety thousand and nine
hundred and thirty four thousand guilders,
exceed the difference in queltion by one
hundred and twenty four thousand three
hundred and sixty two guilders.
The Treaftirer informs me, that there
are two bills not included in the memoran
dum, one for one hundred and twenty
three thousand seven hundred and fifty,
ind the other for fix hundred and twelve
guilders ; which make up the above men
tioned excess. The former of these two
bills was furnilhed to the Secretary ot
State,for thepurpofe contemplated by the
third feftion of the ast oi the last feilion,
" An ast making certain appro
priations therein fpecified."
Is it not trnly matter of regret, that so
formal an explanation on ftich a point,
-'..ild have been mode requisite r Couiil
i- personal inquiry of either of the officers
concerned have luperfeded the neccflity
of publicly calling the attention of the
House of Representatives, to an appear
ance, in truth, so little fignificant ? Was it
lerioufly fuppofeable, that there could be
any real ditaculty in explaining that ap
pearance, when the very disclosure of it
proceeded from a voluntary ast of the
head of this department.
With perfect refpeft,
I have the hoiwr to be,
Sir,
Your most obedient
and most humble servant
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary of the Treasury-
The Hon. Jonathan Trumbuli, Efq-
Speaker of the Hait/e of Reprejeutatives.
P. S. Another statement of income and
expenditure having been made which pre
sents the fubjeft under another afpeft, but
agreeing in the result with the itatement
rB.l is herewith also fubmittcd, market
[Ha.]
For the National Gazette.
To David Jones, Minifler of the Cofpet,
Teacher of Love, Peace, and Good I|7/,
to all Men,
Friend David,
r HAVE read thy several publications it
*■ the National Gazette, wherein thoi
haft stated thy opinions on the causes oi
the present Indian war, and the mannei
in which it ought to be conducted. As tc
the firft thou art certainly right, in my o
pinion ; for I have often afierted, as thov
haft, that the war is a just one ; and as
chy mode of conducting it is the most oeco
nomic, humane, and effectual, there car
be no doubt but the commander in chief,
inftrufted as he now is by thy publicati
ons, will adopt it, and dictate peace or
the plan thou haft propofsd, until we can
prosecute thy method to civilize and bap
tize the whole race of savages. It is true
thy several attempts among them have not
been perfectly fuccefsful, either as to thy
acquisition of lands or communicating thy
holy religion: but a good flogging may
dispose the wretches to both.
Unfortunately, when I have asserted, as
thou haft, that the war is jult and nccef
fary ; that Indians are faithlefs people;
that they have no reason on their fide for
defeating our armies ; and that " the pre
sent war with them is a remnant of the
Britilli war," &c. my neighbours laugh
at me, and tell me, that in its com
mencement, it was the war of the gov
ernor t>f the Western Territory; who,
too hastily, and ignorant of t he <onle
gusiicei, lirft declared it by virtue of"
the powers very imprudently veiled in
him ; and that now it is the President's
war. because he, as imprudently as un
wifeiy, has been induced to fend threaten
ing messages to the Indian nations that he
would chastise them, &c.
Let me repeat my opinions ever so of
ten, and quote those of the Secretary at
War and of the Jeading members in COll
- (who they fay make longfpeeches a
bout what they seem not to understand)
my neighbours alk me for 1 cafons and
proofs !'Thus have I been confounded o
ver and over again by many of our town's
folks; and more especially by several of
our clergy, who quote many authorities
to (hew that the war in queftiou is unjust
in its foundation, and foolifh in praflice.
Nay, some of them go so far, as to pray in
their pulpits, that God may dispose the
hearts of our rulers so justice and peace
with our brethren, tlie natives of Ame
rica !
When I firftread thy publications, meant
ro encourage and excite the war, I was
delighted with them, and haltened to a
:o\vn-meeting, where I had often heard
:his fubjefl difcufled; but alas! it is al
ways fettled contrary to thy opinions and
method ! The town clerk read thy wri
:ings aloud, for the inftruttion of the com
jany : but to my titter riftonifhment, Juf
:ice Trueman, and others, ridiculed thy
jpinions mud unmerdifuHjr; and related
:hy land-jobbing vijits,m 1772 and 1773
imong the Indians; for thus he denomi
nated thy several christian attempts to ci
vilize them ; and he related their threats
igainft thee ; thy fears ; thy hair breadth
scapes; and thy consequent hatred to
hem and their friends ; in terms which I
will not repeat. But one thing X will tell
:hee, because I was surprised at it beyontl
measure. It is this : The Justice fays,
hat in the whole of thy publications, thou
naft not quoted one lingle authority for a
ny of thy aflertions; and that they red a
or.e upon thy opinion ; which is founded
11 thy ign r ranee : There upon I read over
lly publications again and again ; and I
uroteft to thee, friend Jones, that thou haft
emitted to quore thy authorities, chapter
snd verse : wherefore I request of thee, to
expound these matters, more at large, ac
:ortling to thy knowledge; for I confefs
o thee, I have, myfelf, no reasons or au
horities whereby to establish the justice of
:he war, other than the convenience and
•xcellent quality of the Indian lands,
which thou well know eft ; except indeed
t be the interest and dignity it would give
o our great s oi ~.wornn)ent to be
' theJole and abjolnteJovereigns n over all
he Indian nations and their territories;
as Justice Trueman (Vys our Indian coin
miiflioners infukingly declared to them, we
ire. The Justice, as insultingly, alks—
Who gave this sole and absolute sove
reignty ? and whether, after our having
made this claim and declaration (for
which he refers to the several treaties pub
liflicd with the laws of the United States)
there was ever any thing more ridiculous
than to impute the enmity of The brave
natives against us, to any other cause than
these instances of cur insolence and injus
tice ? And yet, fays he, we want to make
mir citizens believe that we have made
Fair purchase of the Indian territory we
are lighting lor. He alks, "Is it not
laughable, after this insolent declaration of
Mr sole and abjolnte jcvereignty over all
nations, north-weft and fonth-weft of the
Ohio, to fay that " the prcfent is a rem
nant of the late Britifli war !" as though
his insolent declaration was not fufficient
aufe?" And he does not hesitate to de
:larc it his opinion, that the promoters of
:he prrfent Indian war aim at titles and
jther aggrandisements, not attainable but
;>y means of a Handing army ! Or why,
"ays he, do they thus squander millions
which the people will foonfeel the evil cf
"e£is of? I have been thus particular,
friend Jones, in order to explain to thee
he general opinion of all I converse with ;
uid to Ihew the neceflity incumbent on
:hee to quote thy authorities, as thou art a
nan of learning and a teacher in Israel,
or what thou haft piiblilhed—and to re
"nfe tlvofe of Justice Trueman and others,
f thou canst : for, a: the Justice fays, it is
n thii Indian war bulinefs as in philosophy
inc! in religion ; A free and full examina
'ion is always favorable to truth, but fatal
'r> error. Therefore, I beseech of thee to
peruse the treaties held at Fort-Stanwix,
h'ort-M'lntofl), Miami, &c. above referred
to, and expound them if thou canst, to the
confufion of all lovers of peace ; and more
especially, juftify to the world, I beseech
of thee, the following paragraphs in those
reaties, which thejultice calls insolent,
viz.
" The United States of America give
rcace to the Indian nations, and receive
them into their protection'' under certain
conditions : one whereof is, that " The
Indian nations do acknowledge the United
States to I>e the sole and Absolute
sovereign's of all the territory described
in the treaty of peace between the United
States and Great-Britain in 1784." At
this the Justice laughs intolerably ; as he
f.ys the Indians do. Sole and Abso-LUTE SOVEREIGN. ! CIVE PEACE AND
protection ! In! Ha ! Hi! Further—
"The United Statessl!ot certain bounda
ries of this their territory, within which
the Indian nations mujt live and hunt, &c."
Here he laughs again, at the idea of our
prescribing b oundariss to the Indians in
which they m::Ji live and hunt < As to Tuf
tice Trueman himfelf, I should regard his
sentiments as unworthy notice, did not all
our town-meeting unite with him in wilh
iagjuftice to ue clone to " our brave bre
thren, the Ab-irigints .of America," as Par
son Goodma.i calls them : for between
thee and me, I luve heard it whifpsr<,«l,
that the Justice is himfeif of the naciv'e
blood of America ; and that he is even
proud of his pedigree; which, it fsems, is
from the old chief who protected William
Penn and his followers in the year 1681 —
& that chief was of one of the tribes we are
now at war with, called the Lenoppii, or
Delaware:. Hence no doubt his friend
fhip for them 1 Fare thee well, friend Da
vid—Be ftroog : Let us prove the Indians
have not, and never had, any rights but
what we please to allow them. Justice
Trueman fays they have offered to tre!at
with 11s and to make peace, on fufticient
proof that we will be ho.nest, and not in
sult them as with our claims of
sovereignty over them: And this proofs it
seems, is to adniitfofenin witne!fts,of their
nomination, at our treaties, in whom they
have confidence, to explain to theni the
full force of such writings and treaties as
we may ask them to sign. But in my opi
nion we had better continue the war to
the end of time than thus put it out of our
power to impose fueh treaties as may be
juoftfor our interett 1
JONATHAN JUSTICE.
P. S. Justice Trueman havingjuft now
vifitcd me, I read to him what is above
written : He requefh of me to ask the fol
lowing questions, viz.
ill. Haft thou, friend David, ever con
versed with any of the leading men of the
present hostile tribes on the causes of their
present hostilities ?
When ? Where ? and what said they ?
2d. If, as he afierts, thou haft not, how
cofneft thou to know they hive no cause
for hostilities ?
3d. What means of knowledge haftthou
had of the Indian character? How waft
thou qualified to obtain a knowledge Of
their charaftgr? He alferts that thy princi
pal object arrlongft them having been a land
jobbing affair, and they haVingdetefted.de
tefted thee and thy \\>eak attempt to explain
religious mysteries to them, by Way of ci
vilizing them 1 that thou knosveft nothing
of their language nor manners, and em
ployed interpreters who made it their a
musement to' li tn.i iTiee I That thy impru
dence, in land matters, induced the Indi
ans to drive thee out of their country, &c.
&c. &c. &c. He supposes that thou re
irtembereft thy hiding under the peltries &
deer-skins, in theloft of aloghoulc, in ve
ry sultry weather, and thy confequeni
sweat. He declares thy interpreter made
up the matter with the Indians to give thet
that sweat, and to frighten thee off; foi
theydefired not thy blood—they accom
plilhed their wifli, the Justice fays, with
out it.
4th. The Justice fays, thy cenfilres of
the President, of the late Commander ii:
Chief, and of the Secretary at War, being
very pointed, in charging tbem with fill)
operations, and rendering the United State:
contemptible ; and thy having undertaken
to dictate that our whole force should bi
collected at Prefqu' Isle, there to build a:
many vessels as would be necefiary to was,
«ur whole army into the heart of the In
dian 1 ountry, and /ail up the Miami of thi
Lake (the Justice wishes it could be callcc
by its proper name, the Ottawa river) 01
land on the Straits this fide of Detroit, in
duces him to ask thee, friend Jones, whe
ther thou halt ever been to either of thof.
places, Prefqu' Isle ? Lake Erie ? Miam
of the Lake . or on the Straits of Detroit ■
He alferts thou ha ft not: but if thou haft,
he recommends to thee to explain the prac
ticability of, and the cafe with which th)
meajures could be prosecuted ; and wifho
po fee thy eftiinate of the expence of car!
item of the account, for twelve month;
only? Jf thou haft never been at any ol
those places, the Justice fays thou mult bt
as great a stranger to the rout thou propo
feft as the President is, or the Commandei
in chief was when he attempted to find ou;
a fiiort cut f rom Fort-Washington to tlu
Miami village, when he was about to de
polit the men's knapsacks, &c. in expecta
tion of furpriling the enemy at that village,
in about 15 miles march, at a time he wa;
four times the distance from it, and had
wandered far out of his road, and knew
not what course to steer to the village,
whether E. W. N. or S. The JuftTce
therefore asks thee to be candid, and ex
plicit in thy answers ; and requelts thou
wilt not be angry with him, for expreflinc
his doubts of thy experience. He pretends
to great knowledge in these matters, ant!
fays thy whole plan is a mere dream, as
thy pretensions to an acquaintance witl;
the Indian character is. Farewell—l prtn
of thee to silence the Justice, if thou can ft.
or enable me to do it.
Chejler County, Februa
ry 1A 1793-
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Tuesday, Feb. j.
The bill in favour of" Thomas Wlfltart
was ordered to be engrofTed, having been
reported without amendment A com
nnttec was named to bring in a bill for fix
ing the lalaries for Prelident and Vice-
President—also, a committee, to meet a
committee from the Senate, for Counting
the ballots for Prelident and Vice-Pre
(ident on next Wednesday. P.eported,
without amendment, the bill to exempt the
inhabitants of Poll St. Vincennes from the
charges of refurveylng their lands : order
ed to be engrailed. Read the third ti mc
and palled, the bill fugitives from
justice, &c. The report of a committee on
the petition ot W. and J. Simms, wasreati
and agreed to : a bill was accordingly or
dered to be brought in to indemnify them
tor duties oil a cargo loft in coming round
from New-York to this port.—The Secre
tary of the Treasury's report on the peti
-loii ot Jacob Bell, Was agreed to and a bill
ordered to be brought in.—A committee
was Appointed to report a bill for granting
7 years halt pay to the widows and orphans
a 1 officers or the army killed fincc June 4,
1784 ; leaving, however, both terms blank.
—A mcflage was received from the Senate,
iguifying their non-concurrence with the
ail! lor the further alfumption of the Hate
Jebts—alfo that they inlift mon their a
mendinent to the bill for regulating claims
:o invalid penliyns, disagreed to by the
:ioufe—alfo, another mefiage, that they
Save concurred in the foreign iiltercourfe
iill, &c.
PHILADELPHIA.
February 9.
Heaii of [ntslligence from the Madrid Ga
zette to December 1 nth—ju/i received.
" The Duke of Alcudia is appointed firft
Secretary of State, in the place of Count
I'Aranda, who remains head of the cotin
:il—The duke of BrunAvick has retired,
ind lieut. general Kalkflaine succeeds to
he command of the Pru.lian army. Gene
ral Montefquieou, to avoid an arrest, re
ared to Geneva, and be ng demanded by
he French resident, fled across the lake,
tellerman, Who succeeded him, was pre
jaring to march to Rome. —In the battle
>f Halle and Audoerlooeh, near Brufi'els,
N'ov. ro, the French Tvere completely fflc
refaful. The duke ofSaxe Tefchendefired
>f general Dumourier a suspension of
irms, and to go into winter quarters,
.vliich was refufed. General Valence took
lofleffion ofNamur without opposition on
Nov. 21 —Le Moliere entered Antwerp
■vithout refinance on Nov. 18; and gen.
Labourdonnaye was to arrive there on the
9th with the main army: the citadel,
lowever, had not yet surrendered—Prince
•vaunitz is dead and field martlial Lacey
ll—lt was understood in Vienna (Nov. 5)
:hat the king of Prufiia had fignified to the
?mperor his desire for a conclulion of the
;var, and that the emperor inclines to a
:ompromife with France: but if the war
rontinues, their armies will act indepen
dently of each other. Fatts seem to indi
cate war, but this would be the cafe ever,
f peace were intended. Lord Aukland,
British ambaflador at the Hague,had decla
red officially by orders of his court that his
master would scrupulously adhere to his
[lipulations in the treaty of 1788, and re
commends the suppression of every attempt
to disturb the interior tranquility of the
provinces—The imperialilts loft 5000 men
killed in the battle of Mons."
Paris Dec. 1. " The lniniftry of France
has ordered general Dumourier to pursue
the enemy's army ifito whatever country
them an asylum, and to deflroy them
aefore they are re-inforced, or in a Itate to
renew their attack on France.—General
Dumourier was approaching Liege, and
Within five leagues of it on the 25th of No
vember. Curtine was at Marbourg on
Nov. 13, and had gained some filial! ad
vantages over the Prussians."
Liji'on, Dec- 21. " The French are in
pofieffion of and have declared
their design of opening the Scheid—La
bourdonnaye has resigned on a mifunder
ffanding with Dumourier, and lieut. gen.
Miranda succeeded to his command—The
ambaflador of France at Naples, has re
ceived orders to retire from the capital—
Gazettes are forbidden to be read in Cof
fee Jioufes and other public places in Lis
bon. M, Calonne had arrived in Lisbon
with an intention to make some flay ; but
he left it in three days, on intimation from
the court, as is supposed."
Extract of a letter from a gentleman of re.
Jpettability, in Annapolis, to a perjon
in this city, dated 2d February injtaut.
" While I was writing the above, Mr.
called upon me with a manuscript ac
count of a dreadful revolution in London,
which,began on the 14th December.—This
account was bronchi by a veflVl arrived at
Nortollc in 35 days from Havre tie Grace,
in 1 ranee. The vell'el left Havre Che iSth
of December.
" Notwiciiilaridini; the very particular
and circumft.mtial account given of this
dreadful revolution, and the murders ot
particular persons mentioned, the dedruc
tion of the king's palace—queen's house
—:nini(ter's—and of the Bank of England,
I can scarcely give credit to it. Thatfuch
a report was circulated in print when the
veflel left Havre, I have no doubt ; there
was time also for the news to reach Havre
from London ; but the atrocities said t<:
have committed are too great for be
lief—lf the above news should be true, a
national bankruptcy in England Will be
the ctfnfequellce.
Since the above letter was received, it is
said that by aletter of a fubfequen: date
from the fame gentleman, that the infor
mation contained in it is without founda
tion.
A correspondent wishes to be Informed,
through the medium of the National Ga
zette, " whether from the manner in
which the late militia law is worded,
bound apprentices are not exempted from
duty?— The insertion of the word FrjJe.
in the law, could not have been intended
merely to exclude negroes, because it i:
fpecified that the persons who come nndei
the law mud be white as well as free.—
The words are, " cach and every free a
ble-bodied white male citizen." Now
the queflion is this, Is there any boune
apprentice who is a tree able-bodier
white male citizen ?"
Mr. Barlow, of Connecticut- (now i;
London) haspnblithed a letter to the Na
tional Convention of France, on the de
fects of the Co.iilitution of 1791. T-hi
work, is spoken of in high terms of appro
bation in the European prints.
A conference was held about t\u
months lince at St. Mary's river, in Geor
gia, by the agent of the United States with
a considerable number of representative:
of the Creek Indians—at this conference
it wa; agreed, among other matters, thai
all United States priloners, with tilt
Creeks, should be immediately deliverer
up to the agent —the Indians to ileal 11c
more horses, or other property, frem tht
frontiers—and to join no other Indian na
tion, at war with the United States.—
There is, from accounts last receivec
from Georgia, a profpeft of a peace, fome
,vhat permanent, with the Cresks.
Ot the 4thinftant the debate was ta
in the Senate of the U-. States fai
opening the doors of their lioufe—and 01
the queflion being put it was determinec
in the negative, yeas 6—nays 21 —Yeas
Burr. Butler, Edwards, Monroe, Potts
ind Taylor—Nays,Ballet,Bradley, Brown
Cabot, Dickinfor.. E flworth,Fofler, Haw
kins; Henry, Johnlton, Izard, King
Langdon, Morris, Read, Robinson, Ru
therford, Sherman, Stanton, Strong
Wingate.
On Wednesday last, the 6th of February
beingtheanniverfary ofthealliance betweei
France and America, the fame was cele
brated in this city, with every demonftra
rion of joy and feftivity suitable to so bril
liant an occalion. The governor of tin
'late, ofneers of the city and Hate militia
the foreign ministers, &c. &c. met at tlx
Hate house for the purpose of commemo
rating this glorious day, and the rccent fuc
cesses of the French nation. From thenct
they proceeded to the city tavern, when
an elegant entertainment was provided
after partaking of Which,a number of toafl
were drank, excellently adapted to"tin
day. Having passed the afternoon in tin
greatest harmony, the company proceedec
from the city tavern to the house of tin
minifler ot France, from whence, aftei
giving three cheers, and playing ca ira am
Yankee doodle, they were difaiiffed to thcii
homes.
By a veflel that arrived at New-York
the jth instant, in 54 days from Cork, mi
learn, that the court of Great-Britain hac
ordered 47 fail of fhipsof war, into service.
agaiuft France, and that press warrant,
had ifTued for the purpose of manninp
this fleet—the English parliament met on
the 6th of December, but were adjoiirnec
to January 3d. The king and queen of
France had been tried and acquitted.
It is to be hoped, the intestate laws now
exilling in most parts of the United States
will be so amended, that the children of
intelfates, and even collaterals to the firrt
degree, may inherit, share and fliare alike.
The further this doctrine is carried, the
more conliftent with republican principles,
so as not to embarrass titles to lands. Equa
lity in eflates is a great security to a repub
lican government. Governments, like mo
rals, arefeldom fiationary, and our grown
wealth in the hands of individuals, leads
to dilfipation, ambition and oppreflion. It
is, probably, out of the reach of legislative
power to prevent, altogether, the ur.duein
fluence of wealth, confident with those fair
principles that ought to govern a free
country. The legislature may however, so
form and regulate the rules that govern
property, a: that our posterity may have
the belt chance of an equal enjoyment of
ir. The fame dangers are not to be appre
hended from large perfonat, as from large
real estates ; the former being less perma
nent, and more liable, from the cafnalties
of human affairs, to change their poffefli
on. I hefe refle6tions have in some mea
fiire, been occaiioned by the information
of the large files of lands made to a Hol
land company, which affords an additional
reason in favor of the above change.—
Guarded as liberty is, by the constitution
of the general government and that of the
individual states, without frequent recol
lettion of firft principles, those written
charters will be no better barriers to li
berty, than the scriptures are to morals.
[From a correjpondent. ]
The lovers ot our Union must behold
with the highest fatisfaftion and joy, the
fraternity ot sentiments (th w best cement
of the Uniort, as being a union of hearts)
which is evincing and opening itfelf from
north to south and from east to weft, in
celebration of the glorious victories and
triumphs of liberty under the banners of
the brave republican allies of the United
Siates. No longer can it be believed in
the Couth that their eastern brethren are
hankering after monarchy aud aristocracy,
or the titles and trinkets that belona to,
and may be the forerunners thereof." No
longer let it be pretended in the east that
their brethren of the south arc felfifh in
their politics and views, or enemies to free
dom, in their hearts. Truth is great, and
is already prevailing over all the calumni
ous arts by which an interested speculating
faction have divided, deceived, and would
impoveriCh and enslave the great body of
freemen who inhabit the extended territory
and varied climes of this vart country.
Ye citizens of the north and citizens of
the south—Ye citizens of the east and ye
citizens of the weft, be brethren in affect i
»n as ye have been brethren in affliction ;
and as ye are bound together by a com
part of government, so be ye united in the
bonds of mutual confidence, harmony, and
brotherly kindness. For be assured that
ye have a common interest at stake in the
preservation of the Union, and that the
truest way to secure the fame is to cherish
those noble sentiments of Liberty, Equa
lity, and true Repnblicanifm, which the
jrefent occalion has called forth into a
ymphony of voices, founding from every
State in the Union, and gladdening every
aeart that beats with love to the sacred
rights of man ; whilst it grates in the ears
and thrills inthe heart of aristocracy, and
is a doleful warning to the sons of avarice,
:o the band of money-changers and paper
lohbers, who have long, too lonj, profa
ned the sacred temple of Liberty !
Mr.. Freneau,
AMONG the volunteer toasts of the of
icers of the Philadelphia militia, an orator
s held forth who signalized Jiimfeif won
derfully in New-Jersey. It was scarcely
necelfary io travel so far back for a speci
men of his oratorial fiourilhes, for so late
ly as the fitting of the convention of this
tate for the formation of our present con-
Hitution, did he exhibit his prowfefs in the
powers of the tribune—His talents had
here a full opportunity for a display ;
they might have lhone forth in defence ®f
equal principles ; but excepting on one or
two trifling occalions, he never attempted
to astonish the convention with the thunder
of his declamation, or the lightning of his
argument. I will do him jufticc—he
drove to be sure, as far as his ingenuity
and a certain east of disposition would al
low, to remove the power of appointing Je
nutors from the people to a body of electors !
but in this attempt upon equality, upon
the inherent, the unalienable rights of the
people to appoint their own legislators, he
was loiled by the genuine talents and re
pnblicanifm of a Wilson and a Findley—
His oratory on that day will never be ob
literated from my memory ; but for his
own honor, as well as for the honor of
principles which he profej/es, it would
have been better that he had been horn
without a tongue. It is grating to hear a
man commended for talents that he does
not poflefs, and for principles which he is
a ft ranger to—Asa ion vivant he has pe
culiar merit, but as an orator and a ftatcf
man his station is very subordinate.
VERITAS;
Feb. 8, 1793.
*»* Several favours from Correjpoti dents
are unavoidably postponed till U 'elneJ'day.
THREE POUNDS REWARD'.
RUN AWAY from rhe fubferiber, on Sun
day the 13th of January, an apprentice
lad to the blackfrtwths business, named John
Layten, about eighreen years of age, five feet
three or four inches high, had on wliisn he went
away, a half worn fuperfine brown coat, a short
drab furtout, bust caflimer brceches a little,faded,
worded dockings, his (hoes tied with black wor
ded firings ; he is remarkably fond of llrcng li
quor, is very talkative when a little intoxicated,
and (peaks with a coarse ftrun* voice : whoever
apprehend! said apprentice and fee tires him 1o
that his matter may get him agaip, shall have
the above reward and if biought home, reafona
blc charges p 3 id. JSaAc WOODLAND,
Georgetown, Kent county, Cross Roads, Marv
,andt Feb. 4, 1793. iaw. Bw.RffleSions on the Engiifb Revolution of 1688,
and that of France on the 10tb of Augujl
1702. By M. Condorcct,
[ConliKtied from our iaft-"]
" A CONSIDERABLE portion of
_/jL the people, combining by sponta
neous impulse, and addressing themselves to
a legal aflcmbly of the whole, depart much
It fa from the common order of law than a
particular association of citizenß, addreflitig
themselves to a foreign prince ; and the in
fluence of the former proportion of the
people, armed in their own defence, was
much less dangerous to freedom than the
presence of a foreign army, devoted to the
will of a Angle chief.
" It was 35 abfohitelv and really impos
sible for the king of the French to resume
I.la fun£Uons, as it was for the king ol
England, after his flight ; and the two na
tions equally found themselves deflitute oi
all government.
" In England the former parliament was
not aflembled, and could not be convoked
but by the king ; and as James had dilfol
ved it, and had afterwards re'.radted the
order he had given for its meeting once
more, there consequently did not exist any
representative power.
" But the English parliament was com.
posed of two houses, tlie one of which was
hereditary, and therefore always fubi'ifting:
thus fucli of the members of the Uppei
House as happened to be then in London
believed themselves inverted, by necessity,
with the right of assuming the whole pow
er to themselves. They aflembled and be
flowed the government on the Prince o!
Orange. William accepted the gift, bul
knew that the people of England had fom<
right to be consulted, and that the heredi
tary senators were but the representative:
of themselves. His flirt cart, therefore
was to convoke thole members of the for
mer House of Commons, who were then ir
London, and with them a pirt of the cor
poration of the city. This irregular anc
incomplete representation confirmed th<
plan of the Peers, and the government wai
committed to the Prince,one part of which
according to the common law, was th<
right of convoking parliaments. Accord
inglv, he hastened to call a parliament, un
der the name of a convention. This was
the name given to the parliament, wh'd
recalled Charles 11. the term parliament
being rigorously confined to those aflem
bl'es, which are convoked in the name oi
the king. But the convention of 16SS ;
like that of 1660, could not but have pre
cifely the fame organization as the parlia
ments, and like them be divided into twe
houses, the mutual agreement of which was
neceflary to express the will of the nation.
Thus the will of about 200 could affumc
the right of exprefiing the will of the wholt
people ; and if there be any who dare Ail
affirm, that an institution like this is not an
attack on the rights of natural equality;
and such as no power can legalize, thej
mult at lealt corifefs it is absurd and tyran
nical, when it is neceflary to decide or
those fundamental qi.efliotis, which the
laws have not forefeen, and on which the
national will is not really consulted, unless
it bs consulted with the mod perfeil e
quality.
" In the revolution of the loth of Au
gust, the existence of an eflembly of repre
sentatives of the people, and the principles
which arc at present acknowledged by all
France, have prevented these irregularities,
" It is not to a foreign prince, followed
by an army, and pcrfonally interelted in the
decisions called for, that the executive
power has been confided; but to citizens
openly elected by the representatives of the
people.
" By calling a national convention, fai
from prescribing forms contrary to natural
equality, the forms established for aflem
bling the representatives of the people have
been observed ; which forms preserve this
inequality in its utmost extent. Neithei
has the power of dilating been aftumed.
but a simple invitation only was ifTued ; fc
that the natural and primitive rights of man
have been fcriipuloufly refpefted. Hence
the Frcnch convention is stamped with 1
chara&er of legitimacy, which the Er.glift
convention could not poflefs; influenced,
as it was, by an inequality, (established 1
grant by former laws,) and by a priuce at
the head of an army, personally interested
in the canfe on which they were to decide.
" Two opinions divide the friends ol
freedom. Some, but no great number, ac
knowledged thefacred unalienable and im
prescriptible sovereignty of the people ;
though it has not yet been rigorously ana
lyzed,its powers fully exposed, nor its con
sequences fufficiently developed.
" According to this opinion, all autho
rity is derived from the people, and inay be
legally reclaimed and again eftabliflied un
der new forms. Kings, like other magif
trates, are but the lervants of the people
they govern.
" The contrary opinion afTerts, that an
original contradl exists between king and
people, which is equally binding on both,
and which the people cannot diflolve, un
less it be firfl violated by the king.
" In those times when that was dccided
by authority which ought to have been
submitted to reason, when facts and exam
ples were fubflituted to principles, when
claims were founded on titles and not in
truth, this latter opinion mull have hare
been the mod general. Hiflory records
no people who really gave themselves a cons
titution : But it relates numerous conven
tions, made between the representatives ofj
i nation, or the nation itfelf and the go
vernment, which by chance had been pre
viously eftabliflied.
"Thus the idea of an original contrast
between the nation and the king prevailed,
in the convention of 1688, James 11. ha
ving violated this contrast, was said to
have abdicated, or renounced his right;
and the rational convention had a right to
appoint a fucceflbr.
" But this opinion of an original con
trail presents great difficulties in the ap
plication of it. If this contrast were
binding through all generations, could the
pevfonal forfeiture of a king diftblve the
obligations contracted by the nation as
well to his whole family, as to himlelf ?
Could there be so much as a right to de
pose the guilty individual, there being an
obligation to follow the eftabliflied order
of succession ? Did this right extend so far
as to choose another chief; or to eftablifn
a new order of succession ? In fine, could
there be so much as another form of go
irernment fftablifhed ?
" It appears, in examining these ques
tions, that the English convention rather
ronfincd itfelf to the nceffities of the mo
nent than to those principles of public
ight which might have resolved their dif
iculiies. <
"The majority were inc' : ned to pi*-
erve the fixed order cf succession ; but
his order called the son of James II
then in the cradle and carried into France,
/vhere he was to be educated in the Popish
eligion, and the maxims of despotism) to
he throne. It had even been rumoured
imongthe people that this was a fupp >fed
:hild ; but the two houses of convention
elt how dangerous and how little worthy
jfthem it was, to found a new govern
nent on the decifiou of a queliion in
vhich, by the very nature of the facts,
>roof would neccfTarily be uncertain, and
he incidents ridiculous.
" Resort, thenfore, was had to the ex
pedient of excluding all popish princes
rom the throne ; and it must be confefT
:d, that the application of this law, to a
:hild of 18 months old, had something in
t which waj irregular. Nor was this all.
Vlary, the wife of the Prince of Orange,
vas to be the lubftitute of her brother,
tccording to the order of fucccffion : But
:he Prince of Orange rcfufed to reign in
he name of his wife, and would not con
"ent to hold his power of lier, nor expofc
limfelf to the poflibility of descending
"rom the throne, should (lie be the firft to
lie. His army, his peifonal talents, and
lis political influence were all wanted, to
lefend freedom againfl the numerous par
izans of James, and to fubjeft Ireland, in
yhich the party of the dethroned icing
Drevailed. Thus it was necefTary to'vio
ate the order of succession, to declare Wil
iam king, and to attribute the authority
:o him alone, that they might not resume
this order of succession, till after his
leath.
" Hence the convention afTurnci! the
right of adding a new condition to the
anginal contra£V, as well as that of facri
ficing hereditary claims to national in
terest.
" Applying to the French convention,
which is soon to be aflembled, not, the
principles of public right, at prefept a
dopted by all enlightened men, not cor»
rupted by the gold of kings, but those of
the English convention, we fliall find that
we cannot, without contradicting these
fame principles, but grant to our conven
tion the legitimate power of doing all
which it shall think necefTary for the pub
lic good.
" Thus, for example, the Englifli mini
flry can neither regard this convention as
illegal, nor dispute its power of reforming
that, which in the conltitutional ast shall
appear to it to be prejudicial to liberty,
without, at the fame time, attacking the
legality of the convention of 1689, and
that of the r.folutions, which emanated
from that convention. The ministers,
who (liould advise such a conduct, mud by
such advice, confefs, I. That the house
of Hanover has usurped the throne of En
gland, and that it appertains to the king
of Sardinia ; 2. That the English nation
has no right to make any change in its
conflitution, except by the will of the
king ; 3. That the king may violate the
constitution with impunity, and that the
nation has no legal means either of oppo
sition or reflriftion ; which opinion no
minister could ptmue in ast, without ren
dering himfelf guilty of high treason;
nay, they n»u(l conclude, that they art
certain of having nothing to fear for the
prefetvation of the throne in the house of
Hanover, and they mud intend to eflab
lifh it as law, that this house poflefies the
crown by pure hereditary right ; that it
has not received it from the people ; that
all the claims and pretensions of the for
mer kings of England to arbitrary power
have been transmitted to the reigning fa
mily ; and thny must further mean to sup
port the opinions of the divine right of
kings, of pafiive obedience, of the difpen
ling power, See. and, in a word, all those
maxims deftruftive to freedom, which
were formerly held by the Stuarts, and
praftifed by the Tudors.
" In like manner, it was in conference
of this opinion of an original contrast,
that the United Provinces, and the Swiss
Cantons, shook off the yoke of their an
cient lords, who were hereditary chiefs,
and at the head of the executive power.
It w;.s the violation of such contrasts,
fubferibed to by these lords, which was the
motive for deposing them; and neither
the Dutch nor the Swiss can rtfufe to ac
knowledge the legality and justice of the
conduct of the French nation, without de
claring that they will submit themselves
to the heirs of the house of Austria.
" Those men, therefore, who, like the
French, love true liberty, who know that
it cannot exifl: without an entire equality,
and who acknowledge the sovereignty of
the people, are not the only persons who
ought to approve the revolution of the
loth of August. All who do not ac
knowledge an inherent power in kings
and princes, independent of the people, of
ivhich they cannot be deprived, either by
their usurpations or their crimes ; that is to
lay, all those who would not be slaves,
mull equally approve the present revolution
sf France and the revolution of England.
Both parties, those who would preserve all,
jnd those who wish not to lose all their
rights, such as thfy find them preserved by
ilie laws of their country, mult mutually
ipprove the French revolution.
" The creatures of tyrants have dared
to reproach the French with the crime of
calling on all nations to the enjoyment of
the fir ft rights of man, liberty and equality,
which are likewise the greatest good ; —
they accuse them of wishing to subvert the
ivorld, because they wish the voice of rea
son to be heard, and of univerfaliy kindling
the flames of discord, because they are de
sirous that the torch of truth (liould begin
to blaze.
" At present this refpeftable zeal, which
is so vilely calumniated, is not the question.
We do not ask foreign nations to rife to
those principles, in support of which we
have sworn to meet death; we only request
them not to abandon such as men, worthy
of the name, have profeffed these 400 years,
in times even of ignorance and superstition;
we intreat them not to descend below the
standard of the 14th century, and not to
whet that tyrant sword which, at present
dircdied against us, will soon return to
pierce the hand that drew it."
CHARLES BITTERS,
No. 120, South Market, near Fourtk-Jlrcet,
Has received from New-York, and ma
nufactured by Lot Merkel,
A large and general aflortment of
Muffs and Tippets, Trimmings
and Edgings,
Great Coats, Caps, Mitts and Gloves lined
with Fur, which he will fell,
Wholesale and Retail,
at the lowest prices.
Nov. 24. jaw
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.
January 1793-
D. 11l Bar. Tker.[W.nJ. l'/catblr.
Turfdaf, 29. 7 30. I zg WN'W Fair.
2| 3 C - i 37 V. W.' do*
IVidncJday, 30. 7 30.05 22 N. I*. Snow.
2 29. S 23 do. Hail.
Tburjday, 31. 7 29. 7 25 N. V/. C/oudy.
2 30- o 32 do - fVir".
tnday, icb. J. 7 30. C 9 N. W .Fair.
2 30. 5 26 W. \H*xry.
Saturday, 2. 7-30. ) 25 M. W. Rait.
' 29- 9 34 calm.
Sunday, 3. 7 30.25 33" N. W. Cloudy,
2 3to. 3c; 37 do. Fair.
Monday, 4. 7 30. 37 25 jTI Cloudy.
2 3c. 15 46 1 SW. F«<>.
y«/? Publijhed,
Bv WILLIAM YOUNG, Bookseller, No. 5
Second-ftreer, the comer of Chefnut-ftreet,
In two large Bvo. vols, neatly bound, price four
dollars,
ESSAYS
ON THE
INTELLECTUAL and ACTIVE
POWERS of M A N.
By THOMAS REID, D. D. F. R. S.
Edinburgh, Profeflor of Moral Philo-
Jophy in the Uni-jerfity of Glasgow.
IT would be improper for the publisher to men
tion anything, refpefting the literary talents
• t an author, so generally known and elteemed-
Nor does it appear necefi'ary to request attention,
to peruse a work, whose importance is universal
ly acknowledge. Thole who have read the an
cient fyllems, and these volumes, will leadily per
ceive, that the knowledge of phijofophy, advanc
es from a Rate of infancy, towards maturity j
nor will it appear too much, when it is said, that
Dr. Reid has diverted moral .science, from that
veil under which lor so many ages it has been
concealed, by ambiguous words and the jargon of
the I'chools. Thus he has adt.-d that friendly part
to motal science, which the ingenious Newton
and Fergqfon did to natural phil.ifophy 5 their
vnited and Ikiltul eflorts, render phifofophy, not
only an ulet'ul, but a pleasant exeicife, and a
more fate Introduflion to the motl important ftu
dies—lt is impradlicable to insert the lengthy
reviews of this work, and to give a part, woul4
be unfriendly to the author and reviewers.
ALSO,
Price, neatly bound in 2 ■vols, Bvo. a dollars
50 cents,
AeOMME N T A R Y
ON THE
BOOK OF PSALMS,
In which their literal or historical sense, aa
they relate to Kins Dav.,l, and the People of Is
rael, is illustrated ; and Iheir application to Mef
fjah, to the Church, and to individuals, as mem
ber? thereof, is pointed out ; With a view to ten
der the ufeofthe I'falter pleasing and profitable to
all orders and degrees of Cl.rirtians, The firft
American edition, from the fourth Biitiih.
By GEORGE, Lord Bishop of and
President of Magdalen College, Oxford.
ALSO,
Zimmerman oh Solitude : Price bound and
lettered, 88 cents or 7-Srbs of a dol
lar.—Also, Scott's Force tf Truth ;
price, bound and lettered 44 cents.
Just come to hand, and for Sale,
DAVIS'S SERMONS
Complete-in three vols. 8 vo.—price bound
j dollars and 25 cents.
Jan. 26. 4t, xaw.
Thole gentlemen, in different parts of the
Union, who hold
SUBSCRIPTION PAPERS FOR THE
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
Are requeftd to make returns of the fubferi
brrs* names as f ion as convenient—■
Messrs. the Printers, a I so, who have, at my
request, published the proposals, will F |eafe to fend
in their refpeftive accounts.
JOHN" CAREYs
No. 26, Pear-Stieet, Philadelphia.
"JuJl Published,
By H. k P. R,CE, No. 53, M Jrket.Street,
Ttf E SYSTEM OF
/iort-c/€cmd,
Used bv Mr. Llovd. in tskino down the
DEBATES' of CONGRESS.
*»* REPRESENTATION having been made,
that the ihortnefs of the period, limited for the
fubfeription, has deprived many gentlemen at a
dillance, of an opportunity of lending in their
names : —The Editor* in order to accommodate
them, and to render this publication more ei
tenfively ufeful, has determined not to raise the
price to a dollar and an half (as intended) before
the fifteenth of March ; —making however a dis
crimination, in favor of the aiflual fubferibers,
by printing their copies enfufierjine royal -writing
pafer. A fiiv remaining copies of this kind will
be delivered to the earlielt of the non-fubferibing
purchasers, at the fame price as thnfe on the com
mon printing paper, viz. one ddlar, in marbled
covers ; neatly bound, a Fur.cb crozon,
]'"■ 2 S- 4 t.
,
PRINTED BY
CHI LD S and SWA IN E,
AT 'THEIR OFFICE NO4 209', HtOK-STREIT
JIEAR J'irTH STf.fE T,
rKlLASiirniAi