By P. FR£ NE AU: (at No. 209, Market Street) PMifhci Wednesdays and Saturdays, [Three Dollars ptr a ,*«»*.]
NuMSi 61 of Vol. ll.] WEDNESDAY, May 29, 1793.
from the Richmond Chronicle, of May 17.
cUFFF.R me through the channel of voiu
O lirefLl , l iel . 5 Mr. Dixon, to congratulate
jtiv coinitry, on the advantages it has de
rived, from the labours of Futurus *
Dreadful inded, would have been the ra
1, oiti to which hemuflhaveb«n expl»l
ed had not this friend to America, ft..ppeci
,-orth. and pointed out the ( I.ne of condurt
fheoti'ht to pursue, with refpea to t.e
bellizeT-ent po\ve-s'.-His ar-uments-hh
reafo lin.r, awaked "1.1 the presidential mind,
that turpitude, whirl, m.ght have proved
ruinoir to his country; was it not. in cc _
tempi ition, to lit out a numerous and ere
Lendou< host. for the alli'tance of the
French resile > Was it not de-ermineci
upon, to raise one hundred th >u a> '
nentals, and twenty thousand 1 .duo .fro*
the w.'lern country'.-Were not the
com'miTiotiers of the.mint direeled w pro
ceed in the coin ige with all «pcd«t.on
and that th? eagles so Too 1 as ca.
fly to tne French coffers? And that a -
appointed fleet, was immediately to be g 'l
ready ?-Ho.w violent were the conteiui
ons for command ! r,, ™ e^ ec !* re s de
late u lfortunate general—but he •
jetted on account of his age, and atta
rnent to whiskey; others tor gen-. 2 »l ■
but his friends, objeftcd to this , g
was too fat and unwieldy and btfde wa.
011 the ro>d to wealth, and v>erie>a y
tented with his situation, in a snug J
Ascertain partizan general was no
ted and would have succeeded,— if a ' °'
le 1 r :hni.*nf to his certificates, had noi
staggered hi n-but on being told, trier
were no bus.i fightitusin France; ''"Jf* I
fav: on the pate, as Falftaff said, he t '
ed the honor.—But the content.on for g
ry, was checked at once, by the truiiiu
arguments of Futurus. A* soon is tne F
peril fed them hereturnedpofthaftetoP.nl
adelphia and iflued hi* proclamation—not:
little chagrined imiveyer, that his count >
£h >nl:l o-ve her future fafety, to tne fug
tr.''fions of a f ireigner—who among otaei
ar»flinents declared, that all America,
were opposed to thdfe ft. uggles for liberty,
which animated the vhole French nation ,
bit particularly the planters of Virginia
—And really it fh ml I seem so. for citizer
Genet, was mo;l negligently treated, hot!
in Charleston and Rich nond — and fre
qiKutly exprefled his wonder, that foinc
opulent and reputable citizen, had no
■waited upon him, with congratulations 01
hi» arrival.—A few iuconfiderable charac
ters indeed, did youchfafe to call on :.im
The only attention {of conference) tha'
(hewn him,was by the mayor who waite.
on him (after he was gone.') & profferec
him *.he free 10111 ol tlic city 1- dut th(
strongest argument that prevailed, to pro
duce the neutrality, was the irrt-matior
which Futurus gave t!ie president. ant
which he received from a conhdentia
friend at the Britiib court—that if Ameri
ca dared to a'lift those infernal affajjms f(
foou as the king of England had reftorei
monarchy to France, he was determined tt
overthrow the republic of America, anc
cut off the Prefident'.- head 1 1 '.— 1 his com
munication, made the P- wipe the fweal
from his brow 1
How many brilliant fortunes, has this
neutrality destroyed in emOrio 1 I hat
determined. myfelf,to fit out a ("mall priva
teer. under French colors, and lie in wail
at Norfolk, till some rich tobacco fhij:
fnould fail, & (provided flie did not carr>
guns) flip out after her, and—blood and
<ions ! 1 wish this fame Futurus had been
at the devil—or broke his other leg, be/ore
he became a writer.
Z.
* A writer who had been previotify la
faming to prove that the fahation of Ame
rica. depended on the flritieji neutrality,
in r 'ejpec! to the powers at war.
Anecdotes of Gen. DUMOURIF.R.
f From a London paper. ]
DUMOURIFR was born at Cambray
in the year 1740 and was ill. lieutenant in
a regiment of cavalry, when he diftin
gtii filed himfelf in different engagements,
during the German war. when Monf.
De Vergennes, minister of foreign affairs
discovering in him a bold and enterprizinp
spirit, employed him in several expeditions
as spy or secret emissary.
His firft niiflion was to tne rebel Pugats
cheff, in Russia, the French minister in
tending to make a tliverlion in favour of
he Turks, Pugatfcheff stated himfelf, in
a manifedo sent over ali Rullia, to be the
emperor Peter iI Id
A'particular account of this rebel and his
hifto. y is to be seen in Mr. Cox's travels
through Russia and Sweden.. Dumourler,
under the name of Beaupres, was his lieu
tenant and cotinfellor in ail his expedition
where, cruelty, plunder, and murder were
not spired ; he h din the
success again(V the Ruffians, but at lall was
taken prisoner. and executed at JVlofcow.
DumourieV escaped. In a Rullii-i
b>ok called Wafiliet's h'llory of the rebel
Pugatfcheff, which it translated into Ger
man. his portrait, which was sent to all the
jj. ifd ctions in Rufii!, was so well made,
that 1 recollected him last year when I
saw him at Paris.
In 1774 he was sent to Poland, as a se
cret em lfi.y to the confederates. He in
termixed with both parties, but his in
trigues were fjon discovered, and ptince
Sapjeha threw him out of a window at
W irfaw, by whicll he had his leg broke,
and rather lamed-
During the American war he resided at
London, under the name of Abbe Lem.»g
ue i. When he returned to France, he
was made Captain of the port ol Cherburg.
where lie lived in obscurity ti.l the tgin
uing of the Revolution, when he perform
ed the farce of a Ja-obi.i. but ill tact wa
an aristocrat. He was called into the mi
niffry, where he betrayed the king, the 11a
tion and the Jacobins. Hecaufed Wa.'to b
declared, k by his intrigues iuSered the
French to be beat at Mon i & I oiirnay. re
moved his riv-d Li Fayctt., and overturn
ed his feilou ministers. Seivmi Clavier,
on pnrpofe to b: prime minister.
He proposed to the king to give him an
order to all urinate the whole national if
fembly, but as the king re'r&ed this offer
with horror, he turned his greatefl enemy,
resigned the niiniitry, and went to the ar
my, where he t :rew hiuifrlf into the Or
leans party.
When he was fnrroin.«ed bv.the ilu-Ue
of Brunfwick, he b-. ganhi:. mjlterious ne
gotiation, of which theie are the fa£ts.
He promised the kina ot Prussia. to save
the itfe n Louis, and to re-eitablifh him.
As Frederick William would nor trust him
he sent a courier to Paris, where Peiion and
M inuel went to the king in prison. and
persuaded him. by the promifeof saving his
life, to write a letter to the king of Prnffia.
Louis complied with sorrow, wrote a let
ter to the king of Prufiia, who retired.
This was what the King intended to dis
close to the people on the fcatfold, when he
Was so cruelly impeded by Santerrc; but
as the king has given several copies of a de
claration to this effect, to his counlt llors
and other people, it is to be hoped the tail
will one day be dlfcovered.
[From tae Chester town SPY."]
r T , HE gallant contest in which the French
A nation is engaged, in defence of their
property, liberty and lives, mill! call forth
the sympathy of every American heart,
and remind them of their late glorious
struggles, during our revolution. This
nation had been a long time opprefied by
the iron hand of dejpotij'm, and fubjeited to
the uncontronlt d power of a king; they
had long groaned under the yoke offervi
tude, imposed by the tyrannical fwav of
Louis and his ancestors, and indeed Dili
perceived their grievances encreafe, as
years advanced along. At length, roil fed
oy wrongs too weighty to bear, the; dared
to break the (hackles which confined them.
,nd overthrow that mighty Gothic fabric
if government from which flowed all their
evils.
Those brave and independent people, at
the dissolution of their old government, af
f'embled at Paris to erefl a new one. Still
attached to monarchy, which had been car
Iv planted in France, they eftabliflud thai
form of government among them, limiting,
l iowever, the power of the monarch. Lou
i and his successors were appointed to tht
hi? heft offices in the kingdom; Louis ac
eptedofthe appointment, and swore tc
rule agreeable to the conl.itution. He
freely and without compulsion assented 01
objected to the a£ts of the national afl'em
bly. Louis at the reqneft of the nation,
invited the noblemen who had fled iron;
the firft tumult; which arose at Paris, to re
turn to their country, and share the privi
leges of other citizens : but these monften
wffhing to re-eftablifli a government that
gave them unlimited power over the Pr
ions and property of all other classes of ci
fizens ; and even allowed the father to be
imprisoned if he would not submit to tlic
protlitution of his beauteous ard innocent
daughter; These wretches re) used the invi
tation; but roamed about Europe, and
iailed forth the apprehenlions of its ty
i ants for their fafety, if they fliould not
co ilefce and crulh the infant, Liberty, in
its birth.
At this time Louis was treatc d \\ iih re
ject by. his conltituents, and received the
;rntitude of a generous nation, lor his ap
ready acquiescence to those ella
jlilliments. which lightened the burthens &
rncreafed the happiness ol the people.
ii!t nl is ! this generous behaviour proceed
"J from a base motive ; treachery ixiftei
0 his bosom, and perjuiy was forming i:
lis heart. He was secretly corresponding
ith the emigrants and their allies, ai.i
"iippiyi lg thein with the treasure-he hai'
jeen entrul'ted with to defend the libertic
f the nation. Knowing he was in dif
e. through which he might be difcover
'l, lu withd. ew hinifelf privately from the
.ipitnl, and endeavoured to escape to Ger-
; bfing discovered on his journey
iiid brought t» Paris, he was ag 1111 reltorec
0 the cu . lidence of the nation; again h
iolated the faith rrpofed in him, bj
lr iwing all their enemies to his palace,
1 .<1 exerc.ling every art to involve the na
ioii in a nu fihere, and deluge their conn
y with thcii blood. His scheme was de
nted at Paris on the 10th of August, 179 2 .
day memo; able for h ving given birth to
• new republic, and bringing a traitor to
tie block.
This is the tyrant whom the Franks have
xecuted j whom they dared-to immolate
ooYPended liberty, and to the manes o
lieir murdered brethren. To revenge
is death, kings have combined and arc
•oti.-ing forth tlie'-r mighty armies to defo
ate the fertile regions of France, and fati
ite themselves with the blood of its ii.ha
■itantAt firlt this brave people may b,
lefeated, but tin y wi.l tefuine their arms,
;.4!ti.i'relliv aloe, and defend their liberties
nid polleilions with an obilinate and invin
ible courage ; their llrnggles will be ma
lifold and various ; but t ley will perish in
he field before they will be carried into
lavery. Surrounded by their wives, chil
lren, and every thing that can animate
hem to the glorious combat, they will def
>ife the tenfold horrors ol death, and court
he dangerous pols to which they are rai
led by the flandard of Liberty.
E cry republican mull feel himfelf inte
efttd in their behalf; they ca have no
■neinies, except fools, madmen, fpecuh
ors and kings : and those despicable
i retches, the American refugees a..d to
ies.
FOREIGN ADVICES,
By the brig Orange, arrived at New-"Y erl<
o.i Friday last, m fix weeks from Bril
tol.
Brussels, April 3.— A letter from Gen.
Clairfayt to the Imperial Minifler at
the Hague, dated Tournay, March
3'- T ""93- . . .
" I lose not a moment in communicating
0 youi Excellency vvhat, M. Dumourier
las just written to me, when he sent to our
.amp eight or nine prisoners this morning
our of whom, with Gen. Bournonviile, he
fays, were specially commillioned by the
national convention, to arrefl and cerduil
lim a prisoner to their bar, and on any re
illanie. on the part of Dumourier, to have
lim aflaflinatid on the road: " But, " add;
:he writer, I have been before hand with
:hem, in feeuring those comirillioiiers and
heir deputies a my prisoners." 'Thele
le has lent under a llrong escort to the
prince de Cobonrg after having put seal!
Un all their papers,&c.
" M. Dumourier transmitted me at the
fame time a lilt of the prisoners, and con
1 ludes by faying, 14 that he was that inftani
about to move with the trusty part of his
army* in order todeftioy those who may
further oppose themselves to the public
good of France, and to give to that diffrac
ted kingdom permanent peace and tran
ijuility. I have the honor to be, &c. &c."
Cologne, April 2. We are this instant
informed, that Cuftire having marched
from Mentz on the ift instant, to retake
Oppenheim, the two wings of the Prufliati
army c ut offhis retreat, and he w as entire
ly surrounded with all his army; it was
supposed that he could r.ot escape.
Every thing is ready for the bombard
ment of Mentz and CaflVl, and :f the gar
[ Total No. 165.]
rifons eio not surrender, they will be en
tirely deftrojed.
Hague, April 4. Intelligence has been
received fiom General Ciairlayt, dated at
1 otirn y. lie 2d ii.si advifingthat General
Dumourier haci that morning sent to him,
as prisoners, M. Beurnonville, M. Can us,
and other commilfioners, who had been
authorized by the nation?! convention to
apprehend him, and coi.duft- him to the
bar, and that, in a letter to Gent ral Ciair
fayt, he declared his intention to march the
>ext morning to Paris.
Bergen, op Zoom• April 4. Intelligence
as been received from the prim e tie S. xe
cobourg's head quarters at Mens, thtt . tl
irmftice had been agreed upon between
lis serene highness and General Dunou
ier, the latter having pre* ioufly cor.fenu d
.0 evjcuate the Aullrian Netherlands ancl
Uutch Brabant: that Gen. Dumourier set
ut on the 3d inllant, on his march to Pa
is : that his serene highuef. had put his
troops into very clcfe canti 1 merts,ke< 1 1 g
hern in imratdiate readiness.to ail: that
:>e king of Prtilfia h. d crofled the Rhino
it Buchera. attatkt tl the French at Birigen,
oreittzenach, and Alt) eim, took G> 1 eral
Sen winger, 50officers, 200 non-comm hi*
>ned off.cers, and privates, 15 cannon, and
mlitary chest, a ;d had forme d t he bloc k»
dt of Maytnce: that Gen. Wurnfer,
Mth a Prullian corps, «as immediately to
>ass the Rhine at Manheim, ai d ast on the
eft of the king : that Worms a'd Oppcn
leini were evacuated, and that the enemy
iad retreated from those places towards
Landau. These operations happened fce
v.een the a;th of March and the ill ol A
jril.
Hague, April S. Lord Auckland the
Britiih minilier, set oft yesterday morning
or Antwerp, to meet his royal iiighneis
lie dnke oi ork, and trie prince of £>axe
,'obotirg— The honorable terms granted
.0 the French garrisons of Breda and Ger
irwydenburg, rppenr now to have been Hi*
sulated by Dumourier. in his conference
.yith the prince c.i Coh.-urg.
It is now rumoured, that Durrorrier,
laving found reason to fufpe£t the finct.'iljr
f agreat part of hi? army in the promiles
:ney had given to si pport him in his plan
>f marching to Paris, and placing young
Louis on the throne, had left his srt>.\ at
:he head of a regiment of eav.,)rv and
rone to the Aullrian am y We {.hr'his
merely as a report: we may, livtvt-r
idd, that no offical intelligence ofanyfuth
?vent has been received.
It was reported on Moildny that Ad"l"t»
■al Gardner had taken thirty f il of the
Trench Weft India men. The report was
received yesterday, with the fubltitutipij
jf Admiral Gill, tor Admiral Gardner,
The capitulation of Geriruyder brr r was
signed on the etl infant. 'I lie garrison to
march out with the honors of war, to car
rv off their provisions, horses., &c.
The garrison of Breda to carry iff their
military effe&s, arms and am'ii unition.
and to have a free paliage to the army of
Dumourier. The foreign troops in garri
son to be included in the capitulation j
prisoners on both fides to be restored.
Paris, March 31. Seflion of the J A COBINS.
Marat- —"The dangers which theateil
our country are at their height, and the
moment has arrived when the courage t>£
republicans ought to be difplajed. The
treacheries of our general are no loncer a
mystery. My predi£lions are accoirplilhc d
— But we have opened our eye t< o late—-
A meflenger has been-difp- tched to l'u>
mourier, and 1 wili warrant that by this
time he has emigrated. Bournonville has
set out to seize all the papers which may
tend to convidt himfelf, and perhaps to tiy
the march againll Paris with 1 umonrier. "
Danton, i n a fpecc h of some length, re
capitulated his former service*, in having
prevented the rniniftrv, of which he was a
member, from leaving Paris in September
hit. He knew Dumourier to be iirpiinci
pled and ambitious; but he knew his mi
litary talents, and wished to give his coun
try the benefit of them. But Dumourier
conceived the project of co querinjr the
"Netherlands and Holland, and makipg i-imr
felf their proteflor. All his atlions were
infected by this idea ; and if he did not an
nihilate the Prussians in the camp ofLa-
Lune, it was because he vvilhed to reserve
himfelf an asylum, in cafe of defeat, in the
States of Frederick William. retreat
from Belgium was rather the fanltof hi in
ferior officers than his own- Miranda was
a fool or a traitor. When D'.'.mourier. re
turned from Holland to Belgium he wasa fool or a traitor. When Dunionricr re
turned from Holland to Belgium he was
quite dejected. Ihe failure of his vilionary
projects reduced him almost to a state of in
i.iiiity. He retained .nothing of a repub
lican but his military ardor, and fought
every two leagues. >• But," continued the
speaker, " let us leave this raving General,
and think only of saving the republic.—
J ranee is far from having 101 l her force.
Under Louis XVI, file combated all Eu
rope, with rtfources far inferior. But
Where are thole resources ? It is for the
Jacobins to find them. It is not enough
to have levied an army of 300,000 men ; we
tnult raise a central army to defend Paris,
and fuccoiir all the red. Let the Jacobin..
call upon all good citizens, and select those
who are the moll capable or defending their
country, and we fHal 1 foeti have a formi
cl be army The factious talk of ditto!v
ing the Convention ; I cannot endure the
idea of a difiolution.
" Let those who have shewn tfoemfelves
too pulillanimous to join their names tu
those whose glory will descend to poflerity,
withdraw from it. Let us engage ttie peo
ple to (peak, and we (hall purge the Con
vention ot those who are incapable of raving
the Republic. Those only who hnve killed
a k'ng, are worthy of representing repub
licans.
Marat.— Dumourier is the creature of a
wicked faction. He was at fird their
pupil, and niw he is their protestor. I
suspect the commiflioners Camus and Treil
lard. Such men ought not to give us a
report on our lituation in Belgium. I mull
requelt that Danton will tear afnle the veil
before the Tribune of the Convention."
Danton —" I engage to comply with
that requed."
Marat.—"Act with energy and courage.
Behave like a true republican. Do as I
lhall do. If the enemy enter France, 1
lhall draw my poniard ar.d fall upon the
traito; s. £ Here Marat, drawing a dagger
from his bosom, brandilhed it in his hand. J
I am determined to die rather than bend
the k lee. The despair of liberty will give
me death 1 propose that a confiderabk
number of inch arms (hall be manufactured
a. d given to all citizens of known patriot
ilm who are not acquainted with military
evolutions Let 11s let on foot a fubferip
tion for this purpose. I myfelf lhall make
the fir ft (t. rifice to it. This was adopted,
and the fubfeription agreed to.
•St. Jll It—" 1 denounce Bournonville as
a traitor,"
AMERICAN ADVICES.
Charlejion, May 8. An express arrived
from general Pickens and colonel Anderfon,
which brings advices to the governor, dat
ing, that ageneral Indian war, on the welt
ern frontiers of the southern states seems
inevitable ; that by intelligence from the
country of the Creeks, all the tribes, ex
cept the CuiTitaws, are determined for
war; urged by Galphin, the fitcceOor of
M'Gillivray ; and that they have already
commenced hostilities within the Carolina
line, a party.of them having killed and
fcalpec! a man on Tugaloo. We hear his
excellency has ordered one third of the mi
fitia in the upper districts to be drafted, and
held in readiness for immediate fervu.e,
should the savages make further depreda
tions 011 the frontiers.
May 10. Yelterday evening, a gentle
man arrived here from Augulta, in Geor
gia, who informs us, that fix of the Creek
towns, with a number of Cherokees, had
declared war againd the United States, and
were actually marching under the com
mand of Bowles and Galphin to attack the
frontiers.
Augujla, (Georgia) May 4. On the 22d
of April, the Indians, *111 number, came
to the hou-fe of a Mr. Richard Threflier,
and fired upon and killed Mr. Thresher,
two children and a negro woman ; Mr..
Thresher, to a~*oid, if possible, the fate with
\v h ell (lie was threatened, fled, with an
infant of about 5 or 6 weeks old in her
arms, and leaped into the river—the Indi
ans purfue-J, (hot her through each thigh
and right bread, ftahbed her in the left
breast with a kni e, cut her left-arm nearly
off, and then scalped her. In this horrid
situ ition Ihe remained until the neighbours
could afl'emble in lufflcicient numbers to
cross the river and pursue the Indians. As
the firlt canoe was croiiing.lhe had (trength
enough to call for affi lance, they went,
found her hanging by a buih, in water near
ly up to her chin, her infant at the bottom
of tae river, a few yards from her. She
lived 24 hours, and when informed by her
piiylician that it was impoliible for her to
fiirvive much longer, Ihe with a fortitude.
that is rarely to be met with, called her
friends around her, and in a calm but pa
thetic mailer, gave her hand to each one,
wilhing thein a better fate than had befallen
hefelf and family ; and when after her
speech failed, as neighbors were co ldantly
coming in, (lie continued to give her hand
until about five minutes before (he resigned
her breath, which was without a groan.
Mrs. Thresher was about 2j years of
age. of a respectable family, and elegant
perfbn, and poiiefled an uncommon educa
tion.
On Thursday the 24th tilt, two men
were kdled in Franklin, 40 horses carried
effj andfince the accountspubliQied iaour
all the inhabitants cn the frontiers
have retreated into forts, without arms or
ammunition. At one meeting of near &r
perfonsihey could only jnnlter five old
mullets ; to heighten the horror of their
condition, the Indians were momently ex
pected. J
As fimilaf murders are daily committed
■t called up the spirit of 800 gallant fel
lows, who marched last week again ft thr
ravages, determined to revenge the cruel
ties perpetrated on the infant, the motiier.
and the defencelefs.
Alexandria 4 May 22. By the brig Vir
ginia, Captain Bean, which arrived in thi:
port on Sunday last, u e have received £
isritifii paper dated the 4th April.
In the Virginia came passengers fevera.
emigrants who are manufacturers—fro 11
them, and from the commander, we lean:
—That the mercantile and manufafhirins
interests in Great-Britain, are in a cala
mitous (ituation —That thousands of per
rons concerned in the latter are ready tr
emigrate to this country, whenever op
portunity and a profpeft of favorable re
ception (hall present themselves—Thai
commissions for privateering are withhelc
oil account of the difficulty of manning the
navy I hat the spirit of reformation ir
the government is spreading itfelf with
great rapidity—that a French privateer hac
lately been taken by the Britilli, the crew
of which were marched through the street:
of Falmouth, with a band ol mulic and ;
display of their national inlignia, furrotmd
ed by a multitude of the inhabitants of a!
descriptions, execrating the ministry anc
j]filops—That an action had taken place
between a French Faft-Indiaman and;
Britilli frigate, in which the former wa
victorious.
Address from a writer in the Virgin/,
Caze/ie, signed Philo Franklin, to tht
Printers oj that paper.
I OBSERVr that in compliance with the
request of one of your fubferibers, ,yoi
are now communicating to the public, tht
several reports of the Secretary of the
I reafury made in pursuance of the late re
lolutions oi the House of Representatives ol
the United States, reciuefting information
for the fir Ji time respecting the real Itate oi
the Treasury department.— It would pro
fa ibly aid the public mine! in forming jnll
conclulions from these report;, to add
to your Communications the remaiks o!
several anonymous writers, who appear to
have beltowed considerable labour upon
the iubjett, a,ul by a judicious chviuical o
peration performed upon the various, com
plicated,and heterogeneous mass of mattei
thrown before the public, to have extratf
?d some of its characters the molt eifential
and interesting to the community, and bj
:his necejl'ary Jecretion and Amplification
tn have leflened conlidcrably the difficult)
us forming an opinion.
Amonglt ihe various publications of this
.icfcription, I have selected several piece;
u bich have lately come to my ha"ds nndei
the iignature of •• Franklin," which ap
pear to have been written with firmnefs,
intelligence, and confeioufnefs of rectitude ,
I now inclose them to you and can venture
to aflert, that a re-publication of them, in
the r proper order, will give pleasure and
i.Uorination to many of your readers.
While lam making these inclofures, I can
not refrain from calling your attention to
the difficulty with which pieces of this kind
(however decent and intelligent) seem to
labour in getting before the public, as it
most of the prejfes hi the Union were as ap
prehensive of the confluences of inform
ing the people of their real political (ifua
tion, and particularly of the application cj
their money, as the adminijiration itjelf.\
engaged in making Juch application and
iutating the measures of the government.
Whether this phenomenon may be afcrib
able to an implyed w:Aerflandiit£ between
these various prefies and the administra
tion ; or whether the vigilance and fore
light of the favored, paper men, have gain
ed poffefiion of the preflVs, as the molt ad
vantageous ports for annoying t/icir com
mon enemy, the remaining mass of the peo
ble S I will not undertake to determine
But certain it is, that an appearance foex
.raprdinary in a government which boasts
nf founded in a fair compatt of indi
viduals, and can exist but in the intelli
gence of the great body of the people;
mult be ascribed to some extraordinary
eaufe ; audit is equally certain, that our
ileal arrangements have secreted the paper
men from the mass of the people,' have
[lamped them with a diftintt character, and
have bound them together by an incorpo
ration, with distinct privileges and with
militant views and interests.—They seem
to have been moulded into a kind of
ai military corps, and with the continual
lelps and favours of the government, are
Simulated to assail the interests of all other
;lalfes of the community, with the advan
ces ot vveH-furniflied, well-trained vete
-an troops, over undisciplined, unarmed
ind feattered militia.
The Secretary of the Treasury has in
ormed us too, that there ai e at present in
America large fnms of money drawn from
abroad, for which he has invented the no
vel denomination of '< instrument ah
tv"—A jealous republican therefore, may
I presume, be pardoned for ialinuating his
fears that this " instrument A lit y," to
him unintelligible, under some of its vari
ous disguises and occult operations, may
Have been applied at leaif to court the
complaisance and lilence of the prefies, the
necessary and only competent vehicles of
intelligence to the people.
' That it is not so, i hope—that it is so 1
fear. I tr 11 ft with confidence however,
that your press will never furnifli a juftifica
tion to Inch apprehensions, and tliatit will
•ilways exhibit a proper refpeift for the dis
cretion and virtue of the people at large, by
communicating without refpeft to parties
or pei foils, whatever may serve to inform,
inflrntt, or amuse.
Richmond, May 20.
[On the firft day of March 1793, the kin?
of Great Britain ifliied a Proclamation
for a general Fait in England, Wales, anc
the town of Berwick upon Tweed, tc
take place on the 19th of April.—Tit
following (fays a Boston paper) is t! 1
true English of the British proclamatiui
for a public fait.]
WE, taking into our most serious con
fideration, that the people of all Europe
itave folong groaned under the heavy yoke
of the Feudal Syjlem—have been so griev
on fly oppreiled with unnecellary burthen
lor the support of monarchy and aristocra
cy—that they are now obliged, in then
own necessary and natural defence, to raif<
against their opprelfors; b/ which the
r owns of all Europe are brought intodan
ger, and appear Jo totter 011 the heads o;
the despots: To prevent an evil whicf
WE have so much reason to dread, WE
have, with the advice of OUR Privy Coun
cil, thought fit to appoint a day of public
fnfliug a 11 prayer ; calling upon all OUI!
loving fubjeSs, to appear, and to hnn.blt
themselves upon this important and dread
ful apprehension ; thereby hoping that thi:
foletni.ity will impress their hearts with the
droine right of kingly power, and convince
them that the people are the property cl
their lawful sovereigns, liable to be fold or
leafed like cattle, as appurtenant to the foil
where they sweat out their lives, starving
for the support of their lawful matters.
And WE command all OURJubjeds, to as
semble on the occalion, and devont/y tc
re-peat a form of prayer, which WE have
ordered our Arch-Bilhop to compoie foi
them.
I t isfaid, that the Arch BifSnp will com
pose a prayer, in which there is to be the
following clause :
" Almighty, and most merciful Father
we do most humbly beseech thee, on the
behalf of ox; a tno'jl gracious sovereign
George the third'' and in behalf of all the
foveretgns in Europe, that light and :«w
---ledge may flill be hidden from the people
e)f all denominations whatever ; and that
the grofj & impenetrable darkness, so lonj,
and so perfectly continued under the feuds,
lyjleni, may be yet mojl mercifully sup
ported and upheld. And that thy fervaut
the Princes of Europe, and their nobles anc
bishops, may yet enjoy the divine right 01
eh J laving the People. And grant, Oi
molt merciful Father, that the valjals anc
the Jeitanjs, and all theirfubjeits maj yel
be co itemed in all godliness and honelty
to toil in peaceable and degrading servi
tude ; that the princes and nobles, by theii
labour may be yet indulged in all vice, de-
and folly; and that thy fervanti
the Bishops, their Curates and Deacons
may riot and grow fat 011 tythes which the;
never earn. And finally, that all the king
doms of this world, may derive fuppori
from fraud, cunning, b ibery, and the bleioc
of the people."
And all kings, potentates, fovcreigns
princes, nobles and bishops will give THEi
tlie glory! ! ! Amen and Amen I
ODE to LIBERT Y.
[See the original in our last ]
" 0 toi, dout L'augufte lumiere" See.
splendid light, that clouds obfeur'.
A So long from Gallic lands,
Goddess, in ancient days ador'd
By Gallia's conquering bands :
Thou Liberty ! whom lavage kinag
Have plac'd among forbidden things,
Tho' Hill averse that men be free
Secret, they bow to Liberty ;
O, to my accents lend an ear,
Blest objeit of each tyrant's fear,
While I to modern days recall
The Lyric muse of ancient Gaul.
Ere yet my willing voice cbeys
The traufports of the heart,
The goddefi to my view displays
A temple rear'd in ancient days,
Fit of tbe mnfe's art.
Now, round the world I cast my ey®,
With pain, its ruins I descry.
1 his temple nnce to freedom rais'd
Thermopyla: ! in thy fam'd strait—
I fee it to the dust debas'd.
And servile chains, its fate !
In thofefair climes, w here freedom reign'd.
Twothoufand years degrade the Greciai
name,
I fee them still enflav'd, enchain'd ;
But F ranee from Rome and Athens cauirht
the Same—
A temple now to heaven they raise
Where nations bound in tie.s of peace
With olive-boughs shall throng to praise
Thegallaut Gaul,that bade all discord ccafe.
Ee.ore tliis Pantheon, fair and tall
The piles of darker ages fill.
And freemen here 110 longer trace
* e monuments of man's difrrace.
before its porch, at freedom's tree
Kxalt the Cap of Liberty,
the cap* that once Helvetia knew
( I he terror of the tyrant crew J
And. on our country's I "altar trace
rile features of each honour'd face:
1 lie men that (trove for rqual Jaws
Or perilled martyrs in their cause. '
e gallant chiefs, above all praise
e K rut ill's of ancient days ! '
Tho' fortune long I,a (hove to blast,
x our virtues are repaid at )aft. '
Your heavenly fealts a while forbear
And deign to make my song your care:
My lyre a bolder note attains
And rivals old Tyrtbeus' (trains;
I lie ambient air returns the found,
And kindles rapture all around.
With thee begins the lofty theme
,;'?' na ! ® e ' n S —power supreme, '
Who p anted Kbeebom in the mind,
J he firlt great riglu of all mankind :
I oo long preftimptuous folly dar'd
To veil our race from thy regard ;
Tyrants on ignorance form'd their plan.
And made their crimes, the crimes of man,
Let victory but befriend our cause
And reafou deign to dictate taws ;
At once mankind their rights reclaim
And honours pay to thy great name.—
But O ! what cries oar joys molest.
What discord drowns l weel music's feaft »
•a hat demon from perdition leads
Nig.it, fire, and thunder o'er our heads 1
in northern realms, prepar'd tor fight
A thousand savage clans unite
o avenge a faithlefs Helen'? doom
' J l) P e s laves, determin'd, come
I reedom's fair fabric to deltroy
Ana wrap in flames another Troy !
u; h h ef r' r u h , efe are the y— lthe murdering bands,
\\ hose blood, of old, diltain'd our lands. '
by our forefathers chae'd and (lain
I lie monuments of death remain.
Hungarians, wet with human blood,
1 e Saxons fierce, so oft subdued
\y ancient Cauls on Gallic plains,
IJread, dread the race, that flill remains:
Keturn, and seek your dark abodes,
» our dens and caves in northern woods,
Nor (tay to tell each kindred ehoft
\ hat thousands from your tribes are loft.
A fiend | from hell, of murderous brood,
j.am d with a hapless hnfband's b.'ood,
Unites with Danube} and the Spree,i
Who arm to make the French their prey.
To check their hofls, and chill with fear
henchmen, advance to your frontier.
I here d'grhe ETERNAL ToMb of
l. r i olands fate each nionfter brines,
Mowsl miUieno down, your cause defeats,
IJnaePs horrid htne § repeats.
Ye nations brave, so long rever'd
in all her glory, fear'd ;
Vhofe stubborn mr id no iyr..nt broke
I o bow the neck to Cefar'syoke—
cvt hr aks ! whom Romans never chains;
jHiMA.vs ! that vrnfubdued remain'd,
fl,h . fee your foils, a fordid race
W nh despots leagu'd, to their disgrace
id 'lie base cause that you abhor,
And hurl on f ranee the florm of war.
Our bold attempts (hake modern Rome,
she bids her kindred despots come :
Prom I taly her forces draws
1 o wade their blood in I'Arouin's cause.
A hundred hords of foes advance
Embodying on the verge France ;
Afongfi these to guide the flame of war
I fee Porse.Nxa\|| just a score.
While from the foil, 'by thousands tyring
to deliroy each king.
O Rome ! what giory you consign
To (hose who court your ancientfame !
Frenchmen, like Romans now fhsli shine,
And copying them, their ancient honours
claim.
i' Fr irice, my native cl ime,my country dear,.
Whileyouth remainsmay I behold you free*
Each tyrant crufh'd, no threatening despot
near
To endanger Liberty !
By you unfettered be all human kind,
No slaves on earth be known
And man be blest, in frrendlhip join'd,
From Tyber to the Amazon !
* Which owes its origin to William Tell
the famous deliverer of Switzerland.
t Catharine the 2d, present empress of
Rufiia, who deposed her husband Peter the
3d, anil deprived him of life in July 1762
while under confinement in prison.
t Tu-O great rivers of Germany; here
metaphorically designating the Austrian
and PVuftian powers.
§ The Tlirkilh forti els of Ifmael, in 1789
stormed by the Rufiiau army. After car
rying it by afi'anlt, upwards of 30.CC0 per
sons, men, women. and children were
flnnghtered by the Ruffian barbarians, in
less than thrt c hours.
|| All ancient k'n:; ofFrruria, who took
J arquir:' part ayj inft the Romans.
* .V. e\ ,i!a. who attempted the life of
Poifiiina in his own camp, but failed.?iiiL±x l) t\ tf tl i x\.
Wednesday, May 29.
A correspondent informs us that Mr.
Henry Voight, an ingenious clock and
.watch nMKer in tliis city, and one of the
officers 1.1 the mint of the United States,
h is riifcovered the method of making Iteel
from iron, which exceeds the generality
ef a.iy imported cast Heel, when manufac
tured into knives, razors, &c.
It is said that Mr. Voight intends com
municating this'dilcovery gratis to all the
blackfiniths and others, interested in iron
and steel manufa&ures, which may prove a
conliderable saving to the United States, in
the importation of this necessary article,
as it will then be in the power of every
blacksmith to make his own Heel.
Two sailors belonging to Great-Britain,
have been taken up and lodged in j ii
for riotous behaviour in the streets, and in
houses, where they went in search of
French sailors, some of whom they insult
ed. The insolence of these people ha< ri
len to a degree above blood-heat.—Me
mento !
The following gentlemen are chosen re
presentatives to Congress from tlie ltate o;
jVlaifaChnfetu—viz.Samuel Holten.Dwight
.Fofier, William Lyman, and Peleg Wads
ilvorth, Efq'ri.
j The Island of New-Providence is open
ed to foreign veflels, for the importation
of provilious, which are there in great de
mand.
Th# island of Tobago is said to be open
ed to all neutral bottoms.
When the laH veflels left England, (April
ir) the general opinion was, that there
would soon be a peace.
Oi the following barbarities (faysaGeor
gia paper) we congratulate owe friends the
Quakers of Philadelphia, and the equally
piilanthropic Congress, who, among other
l.irgefles, ordered nine thousand bulhels of
corn to be distributed among the lavages,
ac 3 period when its scarcity enhanced tile
value of the donation, & at a time too
ample experience had evinced the impoli
cyof treating with these treacherous prow
ling monsters of the sorest, whose ferpci-.
oufnefs the revenue of the United States
could not restrain, nor all the philosophy ot
nations civilize.
The protufion of gifts, doubtless confer
red from the molt benevolent motive 011
these unworthy ohjetls, has produced pil
lage plunder & murder, in an accumulating
ratio to the bounty of the miideft and tuV
molt generous government. In proof 0/
the aflertion, and in addition to the cala
mitous scenes hitherto submitted to the pi
ty and spirit of a free people, it is with : e
ileepelt sorrow we are compelled to
publilh many deplorable facts, lias ! to
well authenticated to dispute their veracity.
By the Alexander, arrived from Sa
vannah, at New-York, on Friday last, we
learn, that the noted chief of the Creek..
(M'Gillivray) is certainly dead. We are
sorry to hear also, by this veflel, that-th
Indians have murdered fever.il persons, ta
ken much property,and threaten defoliation
to the state of Georgia; that 500 are armed
and within 60 miles of Savannah, and
that the militia in the several counties are
called out.
Genera'.Lincoln.one of the commi(Sorer»
for treating with the wertern Indians, v. 1 h
a number of Quakers and others I ft Al
bany the 12th of May, on his way (by Of
wego, and Niagara) to the Miapii Village
where the treaty is (hortly to be held.—
From S. heneftady, he proceeded by water,
with 8 large batteaus which had been pro
vided for that purpose, and for transporting
stores, baggage, &c.
From the Bennington paper of lathinft.
We hear from Niagara, by Mr. Hatha
way, who left there on the 23d of April
that the I idiaiis, had fat in grand council
for a number of days, and had concluded
their bulinefs the day before he came a
way—the council confilled of the lix na
tions, together with the Delau ares, and se
veral other nations who relide upon the
Iliores of the wellern lakes ; in their de
bates many of the chiefs discovered much
natural eloquence, their gestures were
strong yet expreflive —they spoke very loud
in general, and some ot them very lengthy
—the Farmers Brother, a Seneca chief,
spoke almost three hours in one harangue.
The final result was peace generally they
unanimously agreed to meet the Americans
in the grand convention, that is about to
Wholden in June next, on the south fide
of lake Erie ; and for the purpose of mak
ing peace more permanent and extenlive.
they have appointed Brandt, who is now
their king of kings, to go and convene all
those tribes who live to the north-weft of
lake Ontario. He accordingly the da/ af
ter set out for that purpose : it cannot be
doubted but that all thdfe northern Indi
ans, arc, fully determined upon peace,
and will do every thing in their power to
effect the fame ; their situation. if nothing
e-lfe, compels them to be at peace with the
people of the states : they live so contigu
ous to us. that if occalion required, we
might with the greatefteafe extirpate them
from the face of the earth.
The following is an extract of a letter
jilft received from London. 44 Money is
remarkably scarce—the bankers can 110
longer discount—several very large Inufes
have 1 ailed—two or three country banks,
leveral other capital houses in the city are
talked of. Such are the blellings of war.
At Sutton, a place where we have many
workmen—they have been lighting about
To,ll P ,ine, &c. &c. and carried their
quarrel to such a pitch, that they introdu
ced pistols, mufquets, and other weapons.
Tom's friends proving victorious, Meflrs.
Burx, Pitt, Dundas, and Rose were burnt
in effigy, They are now all going tolaw."
On Saturday lalt arrived herefrom Cape
Francois, the lliip Arethufa, which place Ihe
left tire Bth instant. She was boarded off
Cape Henlopen by an Englifli privateer.
The report said to have arrived by the
Vigate from Brest, with the new general,
efpefting Duimmrier's desertion to the
Auft ia.it, was generally discredited at the
Cape.
I here are eight cabin passengers arrived
n the Arethufa.—The inhabitants are still
uneasy on account of the partiality which
they imagine the coinmillioners used to
wards the blacks ; but it was hoped that
the new general would be abie to rcltore
. inquility amonglt them.
The {loop Sally, Captain Hefs, from St.
Euftatia, in 11 days, was boarded by a Bri
ifh Cruiser in his palfage.—There are se
veral Britilh privateers fitting out at 61.
Fullatia, but 110 prizes had been brought
in there. It was reported and aflerted as a
poluive fa£>, that a Britilh privateer had ta
icen an American brig with French proper
ty on board, and lent her into St. Kitts.
The above is also confirmed by a letter
to a gentleman here, which mentions, —
" That an American brig had been fcized
and sent into St, Kitts by an Englilh priva
teer. 011 suspicion that there was French
property aboard
i he brig Harriot, Capt. Bentley, arriv
ed here last Saturday, in 19 days from Port
-11- Prince, which place he left the 4th inft.
Spoke a brig the 7th. bound from Janevive
to Bait.more, in lat. 20 long. 71 ; faint
clay fell in with a French fleet, lat.2 1 .long.
and parted with them the next day,
jth, off Cape Frrfnfois; they conlifted ot
upwards of 70 fail oi' merchantmen, under
convoy of three frigates and a flaop of war,
all bou.id to France.
A gentleman who arrived lately from St
F.uftatia informs u , that he dined in com
pany at the Coffee-houfe in St. Eultatia.
where there was an American Captain
a 110 informed, that a 20 gun lhip. fitted out
>f St. Vincents by the Britilh, h id hoard
ed him on his pallage, examined all his pa
>er r- ry 1: i utely ; and even made him
pen his chelt. and when he could find 110
jtlier apology for obftnuting the Ameri
jii Captain, he extorted three or four
foes be!ore he departed. The American
Captain declared, that he would publiin the
w hole of this tra:ifa£liori on his arrival at
PhihuF Iphia.
A veflel, arrived at St. Euftatia from St.
V incents, brought accounts, that 1 late ar
'ivalfiom England had brought intelli
gence of t ie Turks having declared war
igaiult Russia, and all the other enemies of
llk' French repub.ic This, it wasobferved.
was more honor !>ie to France, than tin
■ iliance of tiie Dey of Algiers was to Eng
land, during the American war.
1 iie snow St. Thomi, commanded b<
Captain Gracez, a blackmn ; - ' jr j i;e(
deportment, and gentlemanlike address,
31 rived here on Monday in 60 days Iron
M deira, informs,that he fell in with a .Bri
tilh frigate, and eight fail of vcflels offßer
muda 011 the jth instant.
We learn, by agentleman dire£tly frerr
Halifax, that in conference of the \ 1,
bulinefs there was at a Itand, and the whale
men and fifhing smacks hauled up ; that
:he regular troops had all gone to t
Weft Indies : But that a hot press bathrr
ken place, to man a.frigate which w as de
liined, it was conjectured, to take S.Pierre,
lear Newfoundland,and destroy the J rencl.
liberies there.
The captain of a (loop just arrived fron
North Carolina, informs, that on his pas
sage, he saw an engagement off the Capt
ot'Chefapeak bay; between four Britill
merchant-vefl'els, and a final I French crui
Per, supposed to be the Sans Culotte, whi.cn
on attempting to board one ot the mer
chantmen was fired at, the ship having
Pome guns oil board. This oecafioned h
a brilk return from the Cruiser, and the
firing lasted untill the (loop, by which the
account comes, had loft light of t ie action;
but not before it appeared evident that the
merchantman had (truck. 7he othjr
three vessels may probably have taken the
advantage of the moment, and Iheered off
to sea.
Three privateers have been fitted out in
Barbaiioes, to cruise for some trench Gui
neamen, bound to Tobago, of whose fail
ing from Africa they had received intel i
gence.
It is said, that the French fleet in the
Mediterranean, which Conlifts of nineteen
fail of the line, has made many captures—
Among others, of a so gun lhip, and five
frigates,but of what nation we do not learn.
Three Britilh (hips ot war and several
merchantmen (accoiding to accounts from
Newbury-port) have been captured by the
French and sent into Port-au-Princc. —It
i» iaid, i he French iflr.nd of St. Peters, near
Newfoundland, is taken by the Ehglifl).—
A large French privateer is nusv cruiling ii
rhe Gi Iph, olf the coast of the Unitec
States. She was lately spoken with ; is iron
H.ivrede Grace, and had taken twenty-cm
prizes. There are also several frigates
trench and Englilh, cruising in these fea.s
and number of privateers of both na
tions.
Extratt of a letter from Barbadoes, Apri.
16.
' 1 Ere this, Tobago is captured, as admi
ral La Forey, with general Cuyler, in tin
Trnfty of lifty guns and fix hundred men,
failed from this, for that place lalt Friday.
Admiral Gardner, from Portsmouth, with
8 fail of the line, and 7000 troops, will be
there this week, and l am informed that a
descent is abfoluteiy intended, 011 the ad
miral's arrival, on theiflands of St. Lucia,
Martinique and Guadaloupe."
By the (hip Amiable, captain Paul, arriv
ed here on Sunday, from St. Vincents, we
learn, that Admiral Gardner, with fix fail
of the line, arrived before Martinique the
11 til instant. No land forces were on
board the fliips, it being fuppofe'd theifland
wou '! fi;rrender on the appearance of the
Knglilh fleet, but as general Kochambeau
commanded the troopsat Martinique, there
was no doubt of a vigorous refinance.
A vefl'el just from St. Euftatia, confirms
the accounts of the arrival of Admiral
Gardner, with a Brilifli fteet of eight fail of
the li *!e at Barbidoes; ou board of one of
which is the Chevalier Dubiic, and the
other gentlemen, who some time since were
deputed tofolicit the protection oftheßri
tilh government for the islands of Martini
co and Gaudalope. It is therefore ima
gined that the firlt object of the fleet will
be t: e capture of these islands.
The latelt Engiifli news in this country
is to April it. —These accounts generally
agree, that Dumourier had declared him
lelf in favour oi monarchy in France, and
the re-inftatement of thedauphin. Duinou
rier's treachery and the plots oi the coun
ter-revolution.fts in France, appear to be
the great dependence of the despotic pow
er . to effect the overthrow of the republic.
On the 3d of April, according to these ac
count! Dumourier began his march for
Paiis, at tMe head of an army determined
0 reflore royalty, and was joined by crouds
nf people to aid his defigus. The white
Sag was flying on the tower ot Lisle, in
which place was left a garrifou of royalist
soldiers. The dauphin had been declared
king at Lille, Valenciennes, and Douay
All offenlive measures against France were
to be suspended during the execution ol
Dumonrier's plan—a proof that the Au
ftrian leader was well allured of his fince
rity-—lt is added, that theinlurgent roy
al.lis of Brittany had tsken poifellion of
Nantz ; and that the Spanilh armies had
entered France in two places. Great con
fnflon prevailed at Paris ; the miniller
Roland, had been accused of being con
cerned in Dumourier's conspiracy, as also
the dtike of OrL ans (f galite). The Con
vention had decreed that all nobles, pritfts
and fufpe&edperfons in the republic lliould
be disarmed, which decree had been rigidly
executed. From the above deta.l, maijy
will despair of the cause of the French re
public. Let us wait, however, with pa
tience,for particulars through another that -
},el. tli t by comparing rhe relations lr»m
both fides, the real Hate of affairs be
twetn the French and their adversaries
nay be afcertaincd with more impartial
precision.
Extract of a letter from Cheflsriown
(Maryland) M; y 23.
" Information has been received in this
town,that a number oi Scutttjh and Britij.
ihopkeepers. in Baltimore, did lately order
he band of niuiic at the theatre, to play
"God save great George our king," which
line was accordingly played. This cir
cuuiftance would be at any other time, be
ne tli notice; but in the present crisis, it
s tie duty of every well-wither to Ameri
ca to give his fentimmts freely thereon.
Tiiis insult was evidently levelled at the
government a d cit zens of the United
ftatjs, as well- wilhers to the French.
• reat praise is certainly due to the Balti
moreans, for their forbearance on this oc
alion, and which, no doubt, mult be at
tributed to the infignificancy of these Rep
tiles. The insolence of these emigrants is
only to be equalled by their ingratitude.
On their arrival in this country, they were
admitted to a full ihare of all the blessings
of freedom, equally with the natives—
Blessings whiih it is well known, they ne
ier enjoyed in their own darling country,
tho' so lruih the theme of their song !
And the return, they make, is, in a If.rgc
commercial town, to openly insult, and,
s far as lay 111 their power, undermine a
government, the happ eft on earth. Base
ingratitude 1 Suppole foil e Americans in
England w ere to denial d, "Wall rgtoi.'>
march," or, " Clinton's retreat." to be
played in one of theirtheatres, what would
be the co feq'.ience ? Theanfweris obvi
ous. If this country, its con.htution, or
citizens, be disagreeable tothofe emigrants
in the name of God let them depart ; we
fl all thank them for their atfence. If,
on the contrary, they mean to continue,
let them recollect, that refpe£t and reve
rence, are due to the governmert, for the
protection ana futppuufi tuey enjoy un
der it."
ARISTOCRACY and DEMOCRACY.
i\
The world is at rlrio moment engaged Tn
the important contest—whether the people
:iiall rule, or be slaves ; tlip-Tucceff or ruin
us the French republic c!ecides the qnef
'ion.' In the mean time the a> iflpc racy of
ill countries are employing every erg £
:hat fear, or art, or revenge can devise, to
ecure and increale their power. Here
:h eir intentions are unequivocal,whi',; iifx
->ne hand they seem to decorate the ft itlie
if liberty, the other is alTiduoufly employ
ed in undermining .ts base.* While they
jretend to emancipate the Catholic, they
ire forgmg new fetters for both Catholics
ind Pruteltants. With an army of merce
laries at their they throw off the
nafk, and declare in the fenate,that —" the
>eople [w horn they call the rabble~\ hai no
>art in the conltitiitioii ; that an ariftnera
y forms the essence of it ; that wealth
Hakes power, and right."—lt remains,
lowever, for the bayonet alone to rend r
nch logic convincing. Wealth indeed
night claim a right to rule, if wisdom at <1
nrtue were its conllant concomitants, and
f those who wanted one, were proprr
ionably deficient in the other. But lince
ill ass is not the less an ass. although his
>annier be loaded with gold ; there is nc*
floral reason why a wealthy knave or fool
h.iuld lord it over a wife and virtuous, al
hough poor, man. Were the people proof
igainlt the con uptions of ve. Ith. they
■vouid soon convince their tyrant*. thot the
'ight is originally, of dot all tin as it thrn ,
ind that power and cumpt teney would fol
ow. \_Belfaft Taper.J
CO MMU NIC AT JO NS.
Captain Paul, malter of the American
ellel, the Amiable, on a late occalion,
hew ed the kindest attentiirn to the crew of
i French lhlp, on the point of perilling,
ind preferred from deitruftion a "nun her
>t citizens, of which the French republic
'lands in need more than ever, line her
nemies have increased upon her from eve
•y quarter.
This generous action was long unkrov. n
o* the representatives of the nation, who
ire nevertheless at all times attentive to
he reward of virtue ; the Convention has
herefore pasTed a decree, charging Citizen
IiENET, minifler of the Fiench republic
:o the United States, to return thanks, in
:he name of the French nation, to Captain
Paul and his crew, for th<* go .:to'JS atten
:ion fhewii to these French citizen*. Tie
atisiadliwn thev mult feel in having fayed
he lives of these unfortunate men, in the
alt extremity of distress, lannot be otijar-
Bi'ife t! an highly increased, when they came
:o be acquainted with the sentiments ot the
rrench naroiian thefubjeit.
( itizen Genet, being ignorant of the
ilace of Captain Paul's relidence, tices
his method, of a public rewfpaper, to re
lief! information of the fan e that it n »y
>e in his power to difcbaige tlie agreeable
luty afligned him by a decree of the Na
ional Convention. \C"pt I ail is ar
'ii'ed in this port fit.t.e out receiving the a
iove.']
The ingratitude which the pri
"oners ot war on board the i'Ai. bofcade
'iave (liewn to the French, and particularly
:o Capta n Boinpaid. w In ha; tri it d :hen»
with all pollib'e human',ty, i aiVuo, bnt com
>titheFre ch to adopt alevere lineofccn
dufl in refpefl to Enflfli prisoner's, in In-
Hire. How the T. nglilh treat thrir prion
jrs of war is no secret : the Americana
iave e- perienccd their u,'a 0 e too le»
merely to lorget it very foe.n. Some | er.
a>ns may, perhap),be ignorant, that tin En
jlilh are Itnpid enough to fupp. fe th t the
French treat their prisoners v. ell ui.l) ft um
motive* of fear. Such an idea conid <b
tain with no others than bafecalumni tors,
the mercenary tools of the britili go\ern
men in this country, whole cone net will
bring upon the credulous sailors of their
nation a just retaliation for their many io
fults, w holly unprovoked on the part of the
French. fl the characters behind the cur
tain, who are so busy in deceiving the ; no
rant sailors, were obliged to fight in iheir
room, there is no doubt but that instead of
reviling the French, they would speak in
favor of their cause, to ensure good »if ge
in cafe of capture. Having nothing to fear
in this refpeft, tliey trouble themselves very
ittle for the consequences of their beha
viour.
That virtue -u'/u'lli requires to be covflrr.t.
ly guarded is Jca cely ux rththe exj etje.—
i lie extraordinary and unfoiicited pains
taken;fcy feme to vindicate the chara£ «r
of the federal government, in totn, might
beget suspicion in those v.ho had not ftt til
ed its principles, that Jometkingis rotten in
Denmark. A found government, Ike the
character of an honelt man. never dreads
invefVigation ; and themofl virulent attacks
are always belt anfwertd by the tenor of
life and conduct. the furelf criterion of
good principles and practice, bvth iu lpea
and governnicnts.Second Trial of LOUIS CAPET.
£ Tranflatedfrom a French Paper, j
[Continued from our last—and concluded /
LOUTS CAPET then set forward or
fiis joupny, and after some hours :
travelling'. anived at the judgment feat o:
Minos. He trembled at tH£ Item afpedl
of the Judge and his affillants. " Terri
ble will be ny fa'e (said he) if lam fen
tenced to punifhme t for those peccadil
oes which were thought mrre matter o
mer imejit at Paris, before the revolution
But I will take courage, and (how him th
WILL, which my father confefToi was si
kin ! as to make for me ; and I am sure
/hall soon geti nto his graces."
Having thus fpoke,hethru(l himfelf int(
a or iwd of ghoft3 that environed the ba
of Minos. The judge d fpatched then
with a much hade as if he had been wel
paid for it : Some went away fad and de
jedted, others felicitated themselves on thfii
ientence. Capet's turn came at last, ani
Minos, with an air not over courteous, or
dcre(3 him to place himfelf in the bar.—
Ghojl- Do you know that I am a king ? —
Minot—lndeed ! so much the worse foi
you, then—begin with obeying my orders
£H-:re the dead man looked about !iim ir
that listless manner he was wont to do ir
his life-time, but feeing no guards at hi:
elbow to revenge the mortification, he pla
ced himfelf in the bar without making re
piy, and on the fame feat which but a few
minutes betr.e accommodated the fhoe
blocks of the Portt-Neuf, and the c®ok
wench of hi., Valet de Chambre, Clery."
Minos—Your name Sir ?—Ghojl—Loui:
Capet.—Minos—Your quality ?—Ghojl—
Alas ! for a long time part I have been o]
no consequence nor quality ; but time has
been that I was king of the French.—
Minns—What, Louis the lad ? are you the
roan that opposed the jutl laws of nature,
and refe ved for yourfelf only, and youi
favorites, the rights which the intended
equally for all men ?—Ghojl—This is al
falfhood and slander: When I saw tht
feop.e prefied down into the dust by the
immense weight of taxes, I, ot my owr
mere motion and good will, convoked tht
States General, in order to give them al
the juflice that was their due ; and so triu
is what I fay, that from this circumlUnct
I was univerfa'ly called the rellorer o:
French liberty.— /I inot—That may bt
true ; but when tiefe fame States Genera
had afleml led and issued their firtl decree,
which ir. :ome measure avenged the affroni
to nature, (he had so long experienced frorr
you, and your brethren in villainy ; fron
the effedt of that decree you began tc
perceive that reason had made more pro
grefs in the world than you had expected
and you immediately set about nipping tl«
infant bud of liberty, in order to fupporl
your prerogatives of pride and cruelty
You fjrrounded the National Affembh
with hired guards, whom you paid and in
flru&ed to your wish Humble remon
fir nces were made against this ast of def
potifm ; your answers were uniforml)
cruel and equivocal, and yon imputed tc
tie disorderly spirit of the Parisians, ar
effedt proceeding only from your ftrugglt
for the recovery of despotic power. It wai
then that your people for the firfl time,
fh iok off tiie yoke of opprefiion, and madt
their great effort for liberty, in overthrow
ing and erasing f om its foundations, thai
detffla'.le monument which, alone, con
demns yon, known by the name of th<
Ballille. When you saw your design de
seated, yon inllantly adted the fpanicl, and
did every thing in your power to calm
down that resentment of which you hac
Ik-atly become the victim. You afFedted e
chai after of popularity—and (pi'y indeec
that you could) you found forgiving
friends who received you in their arms and
covered you from vengeance with theii
own bodies. How did you requite them:
Accustomed to abuse your authority, what
you had been entrusted with you threw
into t e scale cf defpojifm ; you confirmed
personal servitude, feudality, tythes, &c.
The declaration of rights, and all othei
public aels that had the freedom and hap
piness of the people for their objedt, were
rendered fruit'efs by your treasons, and
your benefadtors soon repented of con
fiding power in your hands of which yoii
were utterly unworthy. I will not men
tion your drunken frolics, nor the nodtur
nal reve's of your wife, whom you fliould
have put Into close confinement after the
affair of the neet lace, a piece of villainy that
comp'etely debased her in the eyes of al
nations. Neither will I bring into view
all her adve/iturt s of gallantry, the notorie
ty of which rendered you b >th objects ol
national contempt. I well know that for
a long time the throne of France has beer
occupied by cuckolds & whore-mallers; but
■ill this is foreign to your preferit lituation.
i. will nt mention the criminal correfpon
ience you held with contemptible legifia
iors, with your brothers., your
md your al ies. I will only speak of what
ilrittly regards yourfel-, or is nearly con
netted with your own history. How wil!
you clear yourfelf of the black treachery
as your flight from the kingdom, of which
you had every reason to fear a dilcovery :
You endeavoured to avoid suspicion, tc
gain anew the confidence of the people,
alwa. s too ready to grant it, altho'yon
only meant to break your oath, and thereby
put yourfelf at the head of tt>e armies oi
you' accomplices, to re enter France and
to enslave a second time men who wereo
yerloading you with caresses and tender,
ness. You were arretted at Varennes. L
you had died then, Capet, your people
would havefti 1 mourned for you,would have
pardoned your weakness, & have pronoun
:ed it the lad effort of expiring royalty
—Your memory wouldthen have been lony
dear upon earth, and at your death the
jatesofElyfium would have opened to yoi:
without much difficulty — But this was nol
your fate—like a mean coward, you fuf
fercd yourfelf to be re conducted to Paris
where your entrance was the signal so:
blood and carnage. You then thought o;
nothing but a coalition of the tyrants oi
:he north, and at the very instant too wher
your fubjetts were still so affectionate as tc
:ake pi afure in feeing you, and providing
or you. fafety. I will pass over a multi
:udeof facts, which are but one tissue r :
reachery, that I may -tlend only to thofi
eading charges on which I am to founc
iiv sentence. Let us pass to the fatal Tent!
Df Aitgutl- Well may you tremble
This country resounds with the cries o
ts vi&ims You are mute —it is enougl
—Ghojl—But observe, Mr. Charon, tha
ny repentance basfome merit ; and tha
1 did repent,is clear from my last Will ant
Testament.—Minos— Hold! no more o
;hat—how dare you mention to me tha'
wretched capuchin sermon, which ever
your brethren nd adherents are afhamet
of. Capet, you are a notorious rogue, bu
I confefs you have Tome cause of excuse
You were habituated from your infancy t(
hear all your vices flattered, and to fe<
those virtues trampled underfoot, thefeedi
of which might possibly have been in you
but were never pra£ticed;you have facriftc-ec
to your passions a great part of your urifor
tunate nation, and smothered the cry o:
nature, only to iiilen to the voice of pride
and cruelty. I would fain persuade my
felf that your crimes ought rather to b;
imputed to your courtiers than to yourfelf
But the people knew you alone as king.—
In consequence of ail which I ordain, fen
tenre, and appoint, that conformably tc
your measure of capacity, you be confinec
to work at Vulcan's forge for forty thou
sand years ; after the expiration of whicl
term, I will fall upon Tome means to bcttei
your condition.— Ghojl—l3tit is there nc
pofiibiht}' of my obtaining an arrest ofjudg
■nent? —Minos—lt is written in the boot
of the fates, that you (hall be Vulcan';
bellow?-man—Retire ! Capet retir
ed with shame and confufion,fwearing (bui
too late) that he would take care how h<
ever came to that place again.
JUST PUBLISHED,
An 4!° , b = r °'i at tlls refpeOive Book Stores ol
Jofcpb Crukjhank and Ticmas Doifin, and ma,
be had at the Printing office, No. icq, Mar.
■\ I.T/rT f Pricl "" "gttb of a dolUrA
AddrefTed to the Yeomanry of th<
letters,
United States:
Containing some Observations on Funding
and Batik. Syflemsi
Bv an AMERICAN FARMER.
JUST P ÜBLIS HE D,
And to be foJd by Thomas Dobson Wil
liam Young, Robert Campbell,
Me. rs. Rice and Co. and John M-
Culloch, No. i. North Third-street,
AN EXAMINATION of the late pro
feedings in Congress refpefting the
official conduit of the Secretary of the
I reafiiry; with Observations, & c . on the
application of loans from Holland, negoti
ated under the arts of the 4 th and 12th ef
Auguit 1790.—The price of the above
pamphlet is three sixteenths of a dollar or
is 4d. 1-2. April 24. aaw'tf
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
By MATHEW CAREY
No. j 18, Maikct-Str;.;t,
Embellilhed with a MaP of the present SEA!
OF WAR,
>:o. I, Of a NEW SYSTEM O r MODERN
GEOGRAPH Y.
or, a geographical, Historical
and commercial grammar ;
And prtlent State of the Several
KINGDOMS OF THE WORLD.
CON TAIN J N G
I. The figures, motions, and oiftances of the pi a
nets, according to the Newtonian fvftemam
the J a cert obiervations.
ti. A general view of the earth coafidered as ;
planet j with leveral ufeful geographical defi
ijiiions and problems.
111. ihe grand d<vifions of the globe into lin r
and water, continents and illands.
IV. The situation and extent of enapiies, king
doms, states, provinces, and colonies.
V. Their climates, air, foil, vegetable produ£ti
on?, metals, minerals, natural curiosities, feat,
rivers, bays, capes, promontories, and lakes.
VI. The fcirds and beaftspeculiar to each countrv,
VII. Observations on the changes that have beei
any where observed upon the face of nature
since the mast early periods of history.
VIII. The history and origin of nations $ theii
forms of government, religion, laws, revenues
taxes, naval and military lirength.
X. The genius, manners, customs, and habi:.
of the people.
X.. Their language, learning, arts, sciences, ma
nuf a& ures, and commerce.
XI. i lie chiel citiesj llxudtures, ruins, and ar
tificial curiosities.
Xli. Tlie longitude, latitude, bearing!, and dis
tances of thft principal places from Philadelphia.
TO WHICH ARE ADDED.
I. A Geographical Index, with the names, in;
places alphabetically arranged.
i 1« A Tade of the Coins of ail Nations, and theii
value in English Money.
111. A Chronological Tabic of remarkable events
from the Creation to ;he present Time,
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, Esq.
The Agronomical Part by James Ferg U fou,F.RS
To IVbub have been added,
The late Dilcoveries of Dr. Herfchel, and otlic:
eminent Allronomers.
The firjl American edition, correfied, improved
and greatly enlarged•
she publilher of this work, thankful for the pat.
ronage with which he has been honored, sub
ici-j the present number to the infpedlion o
his fellow.citizens, and lays before them
The terms of publication :
I. This geography lhall b„- publilhed in forty
eight weekly numbers, each containing twen
:y-lour pages of letter press.
11. In the couife oJ the publication will be de
ivered the following maps
1 * Ihe world. 2. Europe. 3. Sweden, Den
nark, Norway, and Finland. 4. Ruflia. c
Scotland. 6. England and Wales. .7. irdand
France. 9. Seven United Provinces. 10. Au
liian and French Netherlands, ij. Germany.
' 2 - Switzerland. ,3. Poland. H . Spain an,
rortugal. JJ. Jtal). 16. Turkey in' Europe,
'7* Alia. iS. China, 19. Hindoftan. 20. As.
'Ca. 21. North America. 22. Britilh Ame
ica. 23. Well-Indies. 24. South America
*5' Planisphere of the earth. *26. Countries
ound t:,e north pole. *27. Difcovenes mad,
>» Captains Cooke and Clerke. *28. fve...
"lamplhire. *29. Maflachufetts. *30. Con
-edticut. * 3 ,. Rhode-llland. *32. Veimont.
'33. New-Voik. *34. New-Jerfev. *35
?ennfylv»nit and Delaware. *36. Maryland.
'37. Virginia. *38. North-Carolina. *39.
>outh-Carolini. *>40. Georgia. *41. Tht
Sphere. *42. The Copernican fyQem.
N. B. All the maps marked with flars are
idded to this edition, exclusive of those in the
ast London edition.
That no disappointment may arise from fub
cribers expefling what the publilher neither pro
nifes nor is able to perlorm, he gives this earh
Sc explicit notice, that to some of the States it wi:
>ennpoffible for him t 8 give maps fully accurate,
10 late iurveys having been made ; and it is hard!
> neceflary to observe, that it falls not withii
ns plan to go to the expense of surveys. But ii
:very instance, he will avail himfelf of the let
natcriah extant-, and such corrections and addi.
ions as his utmoil exertions can piocure, ft a I
)e made.
11. The geography cf the United States is un
dertaken by gentlemen ofliterary abilities, whe
have engaged to give a more full and fatisfadto
ry account of it than anv ever publilhed. li
will extend to 250 or 300 pages, although i,:
tne British edition, and even in that of 1792.
it makes only about 30.
LV. Should the work exceed forty-eight num.
fcers, the surplus will be delivered gratis to tht
fub<cribers.
V. Ihe piice of each number will be a quarte:
dollar, to be paid on deliver).
VI. Such fubferibers as do not choose to receive
the work in numbers, are to pay three dollars
at the time of fubferibing.
The printer, anxious to render this work as
perfefl as the nature of it will allow, most ear
ncftlv recjuelis, that such gentlemen, throughout
the u n'ted Stares, as have it in their power, will
furn./h him with documents for correcting the
past errors m the geography of America, and for
rurniftiing a more complete fyfiem of geography
than has yet appeared.
The title page, lift <,f fubferiber's names, with
the account of the Newtonian fyrtem, Sec. Sec.
the 47th and 4 Sth numbers.
' The fublcribers, and the public in pe
neral are requested to consider the follow, n? verv
material citcumflance-The London quarto edi
t.on is fold here, for fifteen dollars, although it
contains only 25 maps and plates, and of the geo
graphy oh the United States, as has been observed
above, only about 30 pages—whereas, Carey's
edition will contain 42 maps and plates, and have
two hundred pages of letter press more. And it
need not be observed, that the seventeen maps to
lie add*. , are of more importance to Americans
oy far, than tae 25 London ones. The observa
tion will apply with equal force to the litter prefa
additions.
The maps will published in such order of
| -cc,- !:ion as they are engraved, and di»etfi„ns *ill
be primed tor the proper manner of placing them
o> the bo icbinder.
May 22.
READING HOWELL,
To the attains oJ~ I*cktiJ1 *cktiJ y hnih
He ha, lii.w he pcaiurc Oi prctenting not
on h to them but to the uond £ t large
his iv.'ap, the conltant labour of in , C a,s dunne
which time he exerted, hi, /p.nng ne.!
ther money nor labour in bringing it to its" pre
lent perfection. Not the afliftance of a
preceding map founded on authentic documrnts
he was obliged to compile it ficm detailed iur
vey. collefled from the one to the other extreme
of the State at a very heavy fxpence. jet Un
ity small parts of ihe map rtmjin bLnk lot
■vant of materials, which he int.nd,
as they can be p.ocured. He prrf.mes ,i, a , ,he
work, is as corredi, it not more so, , or ,|, c ,
extent of country, than any map heretofore o*'
tiuced, even in the olJcft countries; ti„ s howe
ver he is wilting to fubmir to the,, impartial
judgment j well knowing that the nature of the
vork does lot not admit of absolute perftflion.
What errors it may contain he t „ be i„-
ormed of, in order for their correct,on on the
plate*.
He has a!fo for sale his small maps of Penn
sylvania to which he has lately added the count/
lines, torveyors diflritfs as they ere at prafenti
i road to the Genefee country, &c. &c. V
Mars of the State of Jertey done fi.:ce rhe re*
volution.
Maps of the world in f re, of the best imprefli
-on'~~r~Do ' l ' ie cit )' °f London, &c. &c.
which maps, as well as well as many others he
| puts U«1 linnen ; colours the refpedtive divisions,
; varniihes, and mounts on rollers or frames, and
-uts and folds them for pock-t carriage in a Hilt
j equally elegant, if not exceeding thole done m
j London j oj which he has fpecimeas.
I North fifth ftieci No. 88.
3 r February the ift* 1753.
I Have claims to about two hundred an d
fifty thousand acres of L.iNU in the Uaieo'
Kentucky, in different parts of that country'
fomeof which 1 know to be equal to any j al'
f wheh I am mclined to difpo-fe of, either by
otire sale, or by admitting one, or two partners,
to whom the agency on the whole will be com
nitted.
One fourth of the contrast will be required in
nand, either in cash, merchandise, or such aiTeta
as may be converted to adive use, the reiidue
nay be apportioned in convenient infta!rr»ents.
The purchasers to give security, on the land,
jc otherways,as suits them.
Knowing that there is a prejudice agalnft the
titles of land in that (late, which is more general
han just, I am willing to ftipuiate in the con
cra-d, that a discount, or deduction, ihall be
made, where any land may be loft, by reason @f a
defective titfe.
Any person inclining to such a purchase, is re
queued to write to me by pofl, in answer to
whom, more particular information wil■ <>e given.
UEN RT BANKS.
Richmond March 2 17 2a w
TO BE RENTED,
And pofle/iion given in [ulv next.
A Merchant MIL L 9
ALSO, a COUNTRY and a SAW mill,
either leparateiy or together, with all the
conveniencies thereunto belonging, confining of a
good framed dwelling house, store hottfe, granary,
Coopers shop, (Tables, &c. all in perfect good or
der and almost new, fuuate in a fine wheat coun
ry, on a constant and plentiful stream of water,
at the headof a navigable creek, called Mifiipilion,
from whence the shallops trar.fport flour tc Phila
delphia without any trouble to the miller, and ad
ioining a flourishing village that always affords a
very ready sale for the offal of the merchant mill
and an abundance of custom to the country an,
jaw mills. Those advantages render 'hefe mi fid
nfrior to none in this country j and the situations
for a store is equal to any in the state. The
merchant mill is three stories high with two pair
as burr stones t double gear'd, a rolling fcreenc and
fann that cleans wheat into both h ppers, two
>olting chests, and a machine forhoifting that goes
>y water. This mill manufa&ures principally
uperfine flour, that is much efteen.ed as such in
Philadelphia. For terms apply to Robert Lewis
ind Co. merchants in Philadelphia, or the fub
cribers near the premises.
ELIZABETH THORNE,
PETER CAVERLY.
Milford, Kent County, State of Delaware
May. t, 1793. 2a wtf
JUST PUBLISHED,
\_Frice cue quarter of a dollar J
THE
LAWS
OF THE
UNITED STATES,
Faffed at the laftSeflion of Congress, which
complete vol. 11.
PuUiJhtd ly Authority.
\ Complete INDEX is added for the volume.
Philadelphia—Printed by Chilps & Swains,
Printers of the Laws of the United States j and
"old by them at their Office No 20-9, Market
Jtreet t also by the principal Bookfel!ers, where"
01. I. is to be had.
Printed BY
C HIL D S and S.WAINE.
AT THEIK OFFICE N0.209, HIGH-S TRE* T ,
«EAR FIFTH-STREET,
FHILADELPHIAi