Nums. 6oof Vol. ll.] SATURDAY, May 25, 1793.
.At a me: ting of a number of Citizens of
Per.nfylvania, at the Prince of Wale:
Tavern, May 17th, 1793, convened for
the pufpofe of taking into confederation
the late unjust and arbitrary Law , by
which a few wealthy men are incorpo
rated and empowered to v.olite t.-e
Rights and Properties of their Fellow-
Citizens, the follow ing 1< efulutions were
unanimously adopted, and di reflect to bt
P'lMiiixd mthe fcnglilh and German
Papers.—
RESOLVED.
ift. >-pHAT it is the unalienable right of
*- every citizen to be protected by tiie
government in the .ull enjoyment of hi
life and property ; and that it is the dtitj
of every legal and jult government to pro
teit such rights.
2d. That in the opinion of this meeting,
the late acts of the legiCatt're, by which
few wealthy iradivtcJi: ils are incorporated,
and empowered to violate the property of
free by digging Canals and making
Turnpike Roads, tortile private advantage
and emolument of such companies, are in
the highetl degree iuijiift a.id dangerous to
the .'.berties of tie people—ilnjufl, becauft
these laws violently take the p.opertv of
iifeful citizens, and deliver it to wea thy
incorporated companies without the con?
fe:it of the proprietors—and da'gerou
btcaufe these ails of incorporation emboch
the powerful and wealthy to infringe at
any time the property ot the private ci
tizens.
Re/nhsd 3d. That George Log in ami
Edward Helton, be a committee to draft
an address to the citizens of Pennfylvaui.i
agreeaolv to the foregoing refolutioii . and
at the fiine time solicit diltricl meetings in
those parts of the state w here the property
of the citizens is immediately aPeiled by
these private incorporated comj a ies, re
ctielling such meetings to app.i'uu commit
tees to attend a general conference at the
hoj.ro of Nathan on tne Ridge
Roul, on the Bth day of June, at one o'
clock in the afternoon.
Signed by order if the Meeting.
GEORGE I.OGAiS', Chairman.
Lewis Jones, Sec'ry.
To the Freemen »f Pennsylvania.
Fellow-Citiitni,
THE arbitrary and usijnfl power whict
has lately been ajfumtil ly the legislature ir
combining the wealthy, a.id giving them
authority by acts of incorporation to vio
late your individual rights, d -minds your
serious attention- Such p. uceedings fhoulc
rouse yon from your dangerous letlurg).
and (hoiild engage you to form affociatiom
for the purpose of enquiring how far fuel
proceedings are founded in juflice, fount
policy, or right. The gre;.t body of yeo
nienry sire particularly in erect d in thi•
inquiry, because the property of this clal"
ot citizens is devoted to become the pria
cipal object ol plunder, although the nature
of their occupation requires the tteady pro
section of government, in orcler that b)
permanent improvements, t!;eir farms 111 a)
become productive of the necefl'ary fuppori
to their families, and of bciuli.ial wealt)
to their country.
Whatever may be t'-e put- xt for invert
ing private individuals with the public higl
ways, and giving them power to viol te the
rights of their fellow citizens, the rata tire
is uimeceflary. impolitic, a ic! unjust. The
reason adduced in frpport of thclV nnwar
rantable and unprecedented laws, i , thai
they are intended for the ptblic good, ant
therefore the legillature, invelled with the
ftipreme power of the people, had arighi
to facrifice the private property of indivi
dual citizens to the neceflities of the Ita.e
if the members of the corporations in favoi
of whom such law s have been made, are
not totally devoid of honor and probity
they will theinlelves declare, that in thelt
«*)rojeiSs they are indicated by the forclic
motive of private emolument, and not in
fluenced by the benevolenr principle o;
public good. Whilit therefore we pity the
weakness of legislators who have futteree
themfeJves to be misled by interested men.
we contemplate with horror and i idigna
tion the artifices of those who infiuencec
the measures.
The legislature, entrufled with the so
vereign power of the people, to protecl
to procure for them all the ad
vantages of civil society. can only exereift
the authority so acquired in protesting eve
ry individual citizen in the pofleflion of hi
property, r.nd in defending his person a
gainlt violence and injury. Can tlien the
duty of protesting the property of citizens
By P. FRENEAU: Publifked Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars annum.
confer a right at any time to violate such
property ?
In contradiction to these general and
fundamental principles of civil society, Bur
iamaque observes,* that the sovereign has
i right of making life of every thing the
fu'ojeft pofi'efles, in order toanfwerthe lie
cf the Jlale, and illuttrates his idea
of such necessity by declaring, that if a town
is to Ire fortified, lie may take the gardens,
lands or lioufes of private subjects, situated
in the place where the ramparts or ditches
ire to be railed. In sieges he may beat
down houses and trees belonging to pri
vate peifons, :» the end that the enemy
may not be lheltered by them, or the gar
rison incommoded. Judge Blacktlone, :i
■ onfiderable law charafler in England, and
cnnfidered in our own courts of jnflice of
tiltfirjt authority, obferves.t that the third
ahfolute right inherent in every Englfji
n.an, is that ol property, which confiits in
'he free life, enjoyment, and difpcf.il of all
nis acquisitions, without any control or di
minution, five onlv by tne 1.-uvs of the 1 ind,
wli'cli law s therefore in poißt of honor and
judice, are extremely watchful in afcer-
Mining and protecting this right ; :>nd
herefore, by a variety of ancient flatutes}
it is enafled, tliat 1 o man shall be difinhe-
I'rd, nor put out of his franchifes orfree
lold, unl li lie be duly brought to answer,
<nd be foi ejudged by course of law. Sc
>reat moreover is the regard of the law
or private property, that it will not an
norize the lealt violation of it, 110 not even
. >>r the general good of the whole commu
nity. Jf a new road, for instance, were to
ie made through the grounds of a private
[>erfon, it might perhaps be extensively
beneficial to the public ; but the law per
mits no man or set of men to do this with
out the consent of the owner of the land.
111 vain may it be urged that the good of
the individual ought to yield to that of the
.omnia nit v : for ir would be to
»ilow any private man, or even any public
tribunal to be judge of this common good
and to decide wh< ther it be expedient or
110. Belides the public good is hi nothing
more eli'entially interested, than in the pro
tection of every individual's private lights.
Not only an arbitrary afTuinption of pow
er can confer 110 right of exerulitig a des
potic power, but even the free anil united
consent of a people cannot legitimate
acts of incorporation by which posterity is
to be bound It is ablurd to fay, tli.twe
can do no injury to a people contenting to
the injury: nothing is more falfe than this
maxim. A legislature overpowered by fe
tltu .ion, may be hurried into a£ts> i..jui ions
to the rights of the people, but as soon as
the wrong is discovered, it b> comes the
of tht legislature to repeal tuch laws,
not only on account of the fublfantial jui
tice due te the present generation, but tc
poflerity. A good citizen ought touanf
nut his property free to his children ; hi
cannot with jullice leave it fubjeot to tin
rapacity of a combination of wealthy men
It we ih> uldeven have the foily and mad
nil's to continue the afls of incorporation
and ourselves submit- to the situation o.
II ves, having 110 property or improvement!
In.lt we can call our own, we have 110 all
thority to render our polferity so, who wil
it anytime have a right of removing tht
ivil. It is laid that it is now too late ti
oppose the turnpike and canal companies,
It even for a moment we can flop the pro
gr'efc of inj'.iftice, or remove the oppreflior
tif | ower. it is our duty to do so. As fat
us the honor of the legislature is intereflei
111 the repeal of the laws complained of,
« e know that it is a maxim of de potifn
that its will ought never to be refilled, anc
that its authority ought never to recoil. I:
• t not more gloriousto acknowledge an er
ror than obstinately to pel (ill in acts of in -
justice and oppreflion ? Would not the
Pate acquire more credit by repealing tiieit
hal'y and unjutt laws, than by continiiug
tht m in force, to the detlruifion of the pro
perty and rights of the cit.zens? Shoulc
they be thought sacred, and become pre
cedents for iimilar laws, the farmer anci
the miller w ill be discouraged from making
improvements, as their property will con
tinually be at the mercy of combinations
of wealthy men. For, however the laws
of our country may subjeCt such companies
to redrels injuries committed by them, yet
■K- Political Law, vol. 2. p. 211.
t Commentaries on the laws of Eng
land, bookl. c. r.
{ 5. Edw. 111. c. 9. —25. Edw- 111- p
c. 4. —28. Edw. 11l c. 3.
the inequality introduced by these combi
nation, will alwajs operate to thedeitriu
lion of private citizens.
For the National Ga4ette.
Mr. Editor,
n UMINATING, the other evening, over
the prominent features of the late war,
and tratiiig in my mind the steps which led
ns to independence, I arrived at the period
when the army w.u difoaiuled. 1 reflected
on the i jultice that ensued to the war
worn veteran, who had lent his services,
and the patriotic citizen who had opened
his purse to the country, upon its plighted
faith. In this part of the retrospect, cer
tain rii'ri;:ti!laixe» re. urred.that harrowed
up eve y feeling of my foul. I compared
the merits of the loldicr and the citizen
creditor (I ho t ;e their forgivenefs) with
those of tin- fpecnlating swarm, who be
came (it v. ill not bear to be mentioned!)
jjoilefled of the property of the former.
Alas !" said I to myfelf, " cruel has been
the lot of the American patriots.—Base
mu i be that system w hie h robs the worthy
enrich the worthlef.,!'" Nature gave
way—a languor pervaded my frame ; and
I funk into a dumber on my chair. I found
myfelf on the poll road, between Philadel
phia a:id N-'w-York. By the road lide,
:here llood a rude, but (hiking monument,
erected by some friendly hand to the me
mory of Untie person, whole name delicacy
lad concealed,. The infeription was cut
n Roman capitals -1 read it—and awoke,
a ith f motions I iajinot delcribe !
THE INSCRIPTION.
STOP, Travclicr !
Aiid
View this ToMB •
It coveia Liie TA.'
Of
A Valiant Soldier !
Imong the firft in that giorious llruggle for
Liberty, which gave to his
country Independence ;
He fought her battles —
He lived to fee Her free ;
HiMsel f —niaimea, mi/erable,dependent!
This is his (lory :—
In tjie delpcrate attack 011 I\:tebec,
Se fell covered with wounds, but his life
was (pared :
At Saratoga he 101 l an eye;
He wasgricvoufly wounded at Monmouth-,
At the ilorniing of Stony Point
Pis intrepidity (I.one forth afreih.
In this career of military exploits,
He aliilled at the liege of Charlejion :
There a cannon ball carried off an arm,
And
Disabled himfrcmfai tlier service in the line.
et,
inch was the unconquerable spirit, fucb
the putriotifm of this Hero,
[though emaciated by confinement in the
loathsome hold of a prifon-lhip—
tho' clothed in rags and pinched
s\ ith poverty)
That when the combined armies of Ame
rica and France
Invelted York-Town,
He flew again to the field,
Acting as a Volunteer in the trencher—
Till a cruel Ihot at once deprited him oi
both legs,
And
The means of future support.*
To this hard fate, he was religned—bui
not dilpiriteU—Confiding in the
juftiee of his country.
Which he mgafured by the rectitude of hi:
own heart:
—But alas !—
A scrap of worthless paper
Was thought reward enough for fucli faith
ful, long, and painful services !
To give a ciiftreffed family momentary
support,
To shelter a battered carcase from the
Inclemency of the weather,
This gallant veteran became
A prey to the unfeeling fp«ailator,
A facrifice to an ungrateful country—
A corrupt, tho' infant government.
Reader !
He died of a broken heart !
The toils of war are part—life's ills are o'er,
And want, and pain, and chagria are 11c
more.
* Here is a quaintnffsof expression which
on any other occaiion, might tie thought
inadmiffijjle.
[Total No. 164 ]
To the Printer of the National GA->
ZETTJE.
rjAVING seen a piece in your paper,
number 161, signed HoNESTUS, it has
been deeply impreded on my mind to make
the follow ing lew observations thereupon.
1 his writer (who, in charity, I suppose
means well) cautioned lis to beware of
(hewing too olleutatiotis marks ps prefer
ence to Citizen Genet, On his arrival, left
we Ihould give tjmbrage to the powers of
Europe ; and that " it is highly probable a
change has taken place, anil royal govern
ment rc-el!abiifhtd in France." 1 will not
call in question the fmcerity of honeflu jV'
irier.riiii.p tor our government, but sure I
am that his political creed is not adapted,
to the meridian of Pennfylvimia, or suited
to the relifli of the citizen (dldiers of (776,
many ol whom are itill in ej;iltence,
look back to the days of adverlity, (U,;\
frelh in their memory) vhen America da
red to eltablilh a government pn the
of equal liberty, at a time a combination
of enemies within, and the deluded valiala
of Britain without, were actuated by all
the elements of Hell (the natural element
ol courts and despotic governments) to de
stroy infant liberty and chain lie mind of
man as well as his body in perpetual llavery.
At that awful period, the government off
France, influenced no doubt, by that uner
ring providence which dirs£ls the affair.,"off
men, fteptforward to our afliilance with its
fleets and armies, and rescued our aftliGeci
cause from apparent deftru£tion. Hence,
gratitude has become the principle o»
affection and friendlhip in every true Ame.>
ncan bosom, that nothing but death will
extinguish ! and if thus attached ty France
while under thi despotic coritroul of a king,,
how lr.uch more so in her present ftniggje.
for liberty, when wading thro* fess of
blqod to eltablilh a government limilar toi
our ouui I
Should there be any Americans r hofa
hearts have become callous to)uch imprej
fiont, they fall under the description ps
Saft rds and not legitimate children.
Think it not strange then, hoi.eftus, jf
we manifelled the f< Ili g of <Or hearts
with all the spirit of liberty and gfatitude?
on the reception of Citizen GENET,- the
lirft minister from a free republic, whole
(entiineits vibrate with 01. r own, and
low 11a nrally as an ettefl from a cause.
But let us for a moment suppose,
Hmtejtus,, a royal government 10 be re
ellabnlhed in France. Its deration would
be momentary ; for the period i f ft' ap
proaching ( .ay jt is even at the door)
king craft, pried-craft, and every species
irfdefpotic-craft fliall be baniffed the earth,
agreeably to the pron ifps of ancient days,
from the unerring mouths of the holy pro
phets of the God of truth.
Paine, in his incomparable work, The:
Rights of Man, has fprcad the alarm
ill Europe. Hentp truth has fpning oun
of the earth, and a nation has been regene
rated in a day. The trumpet is blow 11, and
its found has gone forth thro' all the eai ih.
The governors of nations are angry, ancj
the kings and the mighty mpn of the earth,
who are of the earth, and nearly a/1 ic d tq
cite brutal part of the earthly creation ;
whose ideas never yet arose above the head,
or around them, but for the absolute fiib
jeflion or deffruttionof their species. 1 (icy
have collected their armed hoirs from ealr,
weft, north, and south ; and have come
againli thecamo of good and virtuous men
to deltroy the fair fabric Of Freedom. But
all their efforts will be vain, for the race is
not to the fwift, bu'„ depends aWe en he
jreat disposer of all events, who has de
termined the end and means to accomplish
it. Wars and fightings mult come, but
there is a woe unto all those by u hom they
lio come. 1 hey do not originate w irh tiie
people, but from the kings and tyrants of
the earih; who are already doomed tq
dellruttion, and rnuft be buried in the ge
neral inafs of ruin, preparatory to that
peaceable reign which all good men loolc
lor and will certainly find in these lattec
ages of the world.
A Friend to Peace (ind Mankind.
20th of May, 1793.
FOREIGN ADVICES,"
( By the laji Packet.)
London, March 30. Official account?
are received from Ruilia, that the empress
is to fend ten (hips Ofthe line in to the chan
nel, as her quota againll France, on con
dition they ;;re not employed in the Metli-terrancan. Her excuse for not fending
more is, the expediency of keeping fifteen
Jhips of the line to watch the duke regent
of Sweden. She has also notified the court
of Venice, that inltead of the stipulated
quota of land force in men, (he will fend
money; being in want of all her forces to
watch the motions of the Swedes and
Turks. Hence it would seem a delign is
formed ot dismembering Sweden, and per
haps adding Constantinople to the poflefii
o;i of Rudia.
The minlltry here are about embodying s
corps of emigrants, to be sent with ai m;
«nd ammunition to excite infurrettions ir
Jirittanny. The French,-to prevent thi:
defpicabie plot from succeeding, have (topi
all communication with England. No En.
glilh packets are fulfered to land, but have
been ordered peremptorily away, withoul
permitting the mails to be received, or a
ny paflenger w hartever to come onfliore.
April i. The king of Pruflia has taker
pofleffion of Dautzic. Tile partition of Po
land is not indeed avowed, but aftualt}
carrying into execution by those power;
who have so repeatedly, solemnly and re
cently disclaimed any such intention. Thu;
while we are at war, to prevent the ag
grandizement o r France by violence anc
rapine, the very powers whose arms we
are aflifting. with whom it is poflible we
jmy be acting in concert, are openly ag
grandizing themselves by the fame injustice
and rapine, which we are fighting to pre
vent.
The month of March has been a month
of carnage. In the course of it, 30,00 c
human creatures h.ive been swept by vio
lence from the face of the earth; but a:
they perilhed by the fortune of war, the
accounts of the conflicts in which they fell
of the plains covered by the dead, or o:
the hospitals crowded with the dying, o;
the air infeited by the {tench of maTmec
and mutilated bodies, and pntr fyinj
wou ids, are perused by the mod compaf
donate without horror, and by the mof
delicate without difgnft '.
April 4. Yefterdjy some difpatche:
were received at lord Grenville's oflke
Whitehall, from Oftend, which were feni
off to his majfty at VVi.idfor Lodge. Tht
French forces, it now appears, have whol
ly evacuated their late conquers, and re
tired within their own territories. Gen.
J)umourier is said to have gone to P iris.
The insurance for the Wed-Indies ant
America to London, is now dpne at fifteer
guineas per. cent, without covoy.
By a gentleman who was at Bruflels or
Monday the 25th March, we learn, thai
when the French army entered that city
after the battle with the Auftrians, he wai
witness to a scene tnat was shocking to b<
a fpettator of—the Freneh ar. iy werecui
and mangled in a molt terrible manner ;
some with their ears, noses, cheeks, ant
arms wounded ; and in short, Bruflels wa:
similar to a hofpital—Dumourier appearec
very much dejected and the day followinj
?uit Br ffels. The Auftrians are on th<
ro tiers of France, and at this time hav<
no 1 th in 50.000 of cavalry.
To . o•>E i Anniittr p.enipotenti
ary trom the elective Government o
France to the United States of America
S i R,
Permit me to offer for your acceptanci
the gratulations of a heart devoted to yoni
caufe,on your arrival among us,& my bet
wilhes that the obje£t of your miflioii maj
beaccj n,j!i hid in its fulled latitude,aod tha
everybenignantfpiritmayfmile propitious tip
on every private as wellas public endeavour
In these jovs and these wilhes, I will can
didiv co lfefs I am not wholly free fron
felt interest; for I consider your appear
ance among us, from the effects which hav<
already appeared, as the fabled bafililk giv.
jng death to an ariltocratic hydra by tht
mere coup d'oeil. Great were the effort!
to communicate to the people the insensi
bility to your cause which hung in icicle;
around the hearts of a certain defcriptior
of men among us; but the feelings of a
virtuous gratitude were not to be oblitera
ted by the laboured artifices of the enemie;
to equality: the people of America w ereftil
animated with the quickening principle ol
liberty, if it would exp<#id itfelf when a
proper object offered for its embrace.
Such, fir, have you appeared to them, anc
you have already interested their affeflion;
as much as if you were the pedestal ol
their happiness. The frozen maxims o)
courtiers have not yet chilled the honefl
sentiments of the enlightened citizens of the
United States; they have rejected with
ftorn the attempts to engraft upon their
natioual character, a stigma more oppro
brious than pnnic faith; under these impres
sions well might they rejoice on your arri
val, well might they hail you as the wel
come raeflenger of their affections. Ame
rica is indebted to France for her prefenl
portion of liberty ; nay more, (he must
look up to her for its prcfervation ; for so
incorporate is their fate that they mud rife
or set together. If the oak is prostrated
by the blast, the ivy which has entwined
itfelf around it, mult participate in the ru
in. Should France be fubjugatc-d by the
confederated tyrants, woe unto America—
for if a direst attack should uot be made by
them upon her liberties, the feduitive
power of corruption may make them pass
away like a meteor. There can be doubt
to any one -cnverlant in the affairs of this
couiyry, that we have characters among
us who wilh to abridge the freedom of the
people, to fw ell their own importance.—
Should therefore the intrigues of Europe
an monarchs, and the persuasion of their
gold be added to the influence and intima
tions of those characters, it would require
a sterner virtue than we appear to pcflefs
to guard us against the evil. But if we are
allowed to reason from what we know,
the flow operation ol poison will not be
used, when the stiletto can be employed
with more speedy effect. Thp motive
which produced a combination against
France inuft operate to our deflrutiion ;
for as long as liberty has a lurking place,
tyrants will hunt it out—for as long as it
has a being, they hold their sceptres with
a trembling hand. Should, alas! France
be the victim of tyranny, America will
not have a friend on whom (he can cast
herfelf for protection ; she will have no
Ihield but her own virtue, no llrength but
her own arm to ward off the merciless
blow of despotism. Thefa reflections juf
tify me in repeating, 'hat the United States
mutt look up to France for the perpetration
ot her liberty.
In another view, Sir, I felicitate my
country on your arrival among us—False
reasonings upon things have begotten a
difpolition for distinCtion, and some who
were exalted to be the representatives of
the I'overeignty of the people, began to be
lieve thatthey weretiieSovereign them
lelves. The gorgeous trappings of inonar
chy have been substituted tor dignified re
publican simplicity, and to be an officer of
government already con ituted a separate
privilege; for altho' the title of nobility
was not annexed to it, the exclusive privi
lege which it gave, inllituted a rank above
the people. Vou, fir, appear not only to
have laid alide thc jemblauce of superiority
but to wilh no other reality but what
republican virtue and fimpl.city btftows,and
a zealous interest and exertion in the
:aule of your country inspire. As example
is more powerful! than precept, in this
way you will be a powerful auxiliaary in
the caufeof equality.
A dangerous fupinenefs had already in
feCteo us, when the flame of liberty was
efk'Chd from your republic and rewarm
ed us with its heat. The citizens ol
America hac almost forgotten that freemer
Fhould be l,k velfal , keep pious and un
healing vigiU o.tr the sacred lamp of li
erty ; but ti:ey have started from tlieii
[lumbers, and scent the refreshing gales ol
re dom. How great are our obligation:
to the French nation 1
Although internal as -well as externa!
cnemiei, seek to deltroy yoUr country, ]
trull the fair plant of liberty will be che
rished by the hand of heaven, and that it
will bloom and c'iffufe its fragrance through
the world in spite of opposing tyrants.
MIRABEAU.
May 23, 1793.
O D E—A la LI BER TE.
TOI, dont I'atigufte lumiere
Si long tems avait fui nos yeux !
Toi, jadis l'idole premiere
De mes invincibles ayeux,
Libeßte, qu'un tyran fauvage,
\ I'inltabt meme qu'il t'outrage
Honore par des voet.x secrets;
4 mes accensprete i'oreille,
\ujourdhui ma muse reveille
L'Antique lutte des vieux Franfais.
Avant que ma voix obeifle
Au transport qui lailit mes fens,
Vlontre moi dtefle prepice
Un temple digne de mes chants.
Vlon ceil a parcouru la terre
|'y trouve a peine la pouiffiere
D'un dome a ton nomconfacre,
Un tyran siege aux Thermopyles
F.t sous les chaines les plus viles
Le capitole eft encombre.
Vingt fiecles de honte et de chaines
Out pefe fur ces lisnx divins;
Celt nous qui de Rome et de l'Athenes
Refufciterons les deltins.
Franfais, foyons feuls notre exemple
Qu'a ma voix on eleve un temple
On tousles peuples a jamais
Depouillant des haines fauvages
Viennent de palmes et dthomage9
Couronner les heros Franjais.
Devant ce Pantheon fublftne
Brifez ces palais infamans
De nos opprobres etdu crime
Honteuxetcruels monumens.
An pied de fes nobles portiques
Plantez ces bonnets Helvetiques
Devenus la terreurdes rois;
Et fur l'antel de la patrie
Gravez I'honorable effigie
Des martirs facres de nos droits.
Vous m'entendez, manes auguftes
De Thrafibule et de Brutus !
Les Deftinstrop long tems injuftes
Couronnent enfin vos vertus
Paraiffez, ombres adorees
Venez de vos fetes facrees
Remplir les sublimes concerts
Deja ma lyre tranfportee
Rivale ties chants deTyrtee
De fes foils etonne les airs.
C'eft par toi que l'hymne commence
Maitre supreme, etre eternal 1
Toi qui fisde l'independance
Le premier btfoindu mortel."
Long tems l'ignorance et I'audace
Couvrirent ton angufieface,
Du masque impur de leurs forfaits
Un feul combat, une vi6torie
Venge nos droits et rend ta glorie
Plus etlatante que jamai-s.
Mais quels cris viennent de nos fetes
Troubler les choeurs majeftueux ?
Quel demon porte fur nos tetes
Lanuit, le tonnerre, et les leux ?
Verrons nous des hordes fauvages
I-nonder encore nos rivages,
Des torrens du Septentrion
Et pour venger une autre Helene
Toute la force Europeene
Inveftit une autre Ilion.
C'etoient ces bandes homicides
Dont le fang verse tant de fois
De mes ancetres intrepides
Attcfle eniore les exploits
Fiers Saxons, Hongres fanguinaires
Efclaves jadis de mes peres
Craignez ieurs braves defcendans
Rentrez en vos cavernes fombres
Ou craignez d'avertir leurs ombres
Des revokes de vos enfans.
Une Tifiphone egaree
Teir.te encore du fang d'un epoux
Avec le Danube et ia Spree
S'unit etf'arnie coutre nous
A ces defpotes fanguinaires :
Francais, volcz fur vos frontieres
Creufer un eternel tombeau :
Ou craignez pour votre patrie,
Et 1' opprobe de Warfovie
Et les horreurs d'lfmailon.
Et vous qu'au fort de fes couqnetes
Rome craignit pour fes reniparts
Peuples dont lcfs auguftes tctes
S'indignant du joug des Cefars,
Scythes aux fers inacceffibles
Fiers Gerniains, Teutons invincibles,
Voyez vos laches defcendans
D'uneniain vile et fanguinaire
Sur les bienfaiteurs de la terre
Lancer la foudre des tyrant.
Ainfi, par des faits heroiques
Rome allarmant tons fes voilins
Vic tousles peuples Italiques
Vendre leurs bras a fes Tarquins.
Sur fes frontieres invelties
Avec cent hordes ennemij
La France voit vingt Porfennas:
Contre tant de liberticides
Nos phalanges tyrannicides
Vomiroot inille Scevolas.
O Rome ! tu leguas ta glorie
Aux peuples faits pour l'imiter !
C'eft nous Franjaisque la vi£toire
An meme faite veut porter !
O France, O ma chere patrie !
Puifle je au printems de ma vie
Te voir les defpotes foumis :
Et que par toi l'univers libre
De I'Amazone jufqa'au Tibre
N'offre que des peuples amis !
[ A Tranjlation in our next. ]
PHILADELPHIA.
Saturday, May 2j.
On Saturday last a republican dinner vvai
given at Oellers's Hotel to citizen Genet
by a refpeftable number of French, anc
French Ameiican citizens. The miniUei
and his family were present, also citizen:
Ternant and Laforet, the latter of whon
presided, the captain and oHcers of. the
frigate l'Ambufcade, &c. The compan)
confided of about 100 citizens, met in thi:
convivial manner to welcome the firft citi
zen minirter of the only European elective
Government. After dinner a number ol
patriotic and republican toaits were drank
of which the following is a translation.
i. "Liberty and equality. 2. The French
republic. 3. The United States. 4. The
National Convention. 5. The Congref:
of the United States. 6. The ftatc of Penn
sylvania and the city of Philadelphia. 7.
The valiant defenders of French liberty bj
(ea and land. 8. The memory of thole
heroes who have fallen in the cause of A
n erican Independence. 9. The virtuous
Wafliington : May Heaven grant to France
and to the United States many citizens that
referable him. 10. Union and perpetual
fraternity between the people of Brance
an-H tne United States. 11. The arm of a
Hercules to those who combat the hydra
of despotism. 12 May the next generation
know despotism from history only. 14. The
ye?rs 1776 and 1792. jj. May all heads
i'oon be under one cap, that of liberty.—
After the third toast, an elegant ode (fee
second page of this paper) suited to the oc
casion, and compoled by citizen Pichon.
a young Frenchman of promiiing abilities,
was read by citizen Du Ponceau, and uni
versally applauded. The society, cn mo
tion, ordered that citizen Freneau Ihould
be requested to translate it into Englilh
verfff, and that the original and translation
fliouldbepublifhed, The society also unan
imOusly voted that citizen Fiction (hould be
recommended to the notice ofthe minirter.
After a short interval the Marfeilleije
hymn was sung, :it therequeft ofthe socie
ty by c.tizen BotirnonVille, with great tafie
and spirit; the whole company joined in
the chorus. Two additions ftanzes
composed by citizen Genet, and suited to
the navy of France, werethen called for,
sung, and encored.=—lt should be mention
ed, that previous to the lingingof this ani
mating hymn, a deputation from the fuilurs
of the frigate LMmbufcade made their ap
pearance, were received with cordial em
braces, and took their feats among their
fellow citizens. Citizen Genet, at the
request of the society, gave them a fjng
replete with truly patriotic and republican
lentiments, and well adapted to the occa
lion, which he sung with great energy and
judgment. (The original and translation
ofthis song will be given in a future paper)
The table was decorated with the tree
and cap of liberty, and the French and A
merican flags. Thelaft toast being drank
the cap of liberty was placed 011 the head
of citizen Genet, and then travelled from
head to head round the table, each wear
er enlivening the scene with a patriotic
entiment. These tokens of liberty, and
American and French fraternity, were de
livered to the officers and mariners of the
frigate L'Ambufcade, who proniifed to
defend them till death. The company
*.hen left the hotel, at an early hour in the
Evening, and accompanied citizen Genet
to the city tavern . amidst the acclamations
of a very large concourfa of citizens, whose
repeated huzzas were answered by shouts
of, God Jane the United States !—(During
the entertainment a volunteer toast was
given •'Liberty and success to the Dutch
patriots."—with the following lines by a
patriot of that nation in this city ;
Geuereux freres de la repnblique
Amis des Bataves patriotiqoes,
La Patrie nous eft toujours chere,
Ecrafez nos traitres par le feu et ie fer ;
Donntz nous un Washington par
terre ;
Nous te rendrons un De Ruiter fur la
mer !—]
Extract of a letter from Mason county,
Kentucky, April 7. 1793.
'■ Within this month past there have been
[our companies defeated, in the wilderness
and about thirty people killed, amongit
whom tlie post-rider unfortunately tell,
the Indiansrfeem disposed tor war on all
our frontiers—a ftaiion was on the night
ofthe firft inft. attacked by a large number
of favages,and burnt to ait.es, eighteen per-
I'ons taken in all, including women and
children, besides three killed 011 the spot."
It is worthy of observation. that those
persons who vindicate the Britifli nation in
commencing ar againll France, are qui
etly for J'ubmitUng to have the Englilh
hold our frontier, contrary to express trea
ty. Whereas the only plausible plea for
England is that "the government of France
hive violated exiftmg treaties, by attempt
ing to deprive the United Provinces of
Holland, of the exclusive navigation of the
Scheldt." If this isa jttft cuofe of war on
the part of England, what can be said to
our fuffering the Englilh to violate exilling
treaties between the United States, in
holding our frontier posts ? If England can
be jultified by the e persons, in going
to war with France, for violating this trea
ty, how can these fame persons oppose our
demajidin.g an immediate surrender of
those posts, agreeable to "an existing trea
ty?"—lf war is jutt on one fide, for the
fulfillment of treaties, surely a demand on
the other niuft be much more reafona
blcl [Independent Chron. ]
Mere vague reports of French diftre
French defeats, counter-revolution?, &c.
may answer in England, but in America
we havce such recent proofs of the measures
taken by the Britifli ministry, and their e
miflaries, to propagate,fallhoods, that they
are viewed here as the lalt effort of a weak,
?xpiring oppolition. We know that Mein
and Fleming, Draper, Rivington. &c. were
Employed to print every kind of abnfe a
iainft our revolution; but their weekly
publications were known to be the ebulli
tions oftorics, headed by their noted cham
pion Maffachufettenfis. At that time these
paragraphs were retailed in the court
prints in England, as the real state of affairs
in America. The fracas between Mein,
and our late worthy patriot Capt. Dafh
cvood, it is probable was at the time, held
forth in their prints, as the formidable ren
counter of a body of counter rcvolution
ifts. Mein, it is true, got wounded in the
head, but whether the " lower part of his
belly" was injured in this engigment, is
not'thoroughly ascertained ; though it
thought that Venus was more formidable
than Mars as to his personal complaint or
danger.
It is our misfortune' to have among us
now, the fame kind of persons as when we
were at war with the Britilh. They are
actuated by the fame unfriendly principle?;
they are enemies of liberty, and ever wish
to fruftrate all measures that tend to esta
blish it. These people can always find
printers for their pnrpofe, and the venal
press under their patronage, i; constantly
idling its mifreprefent:.tions and falihoods.
But the virtuous 'American u ho feels for
the rights and liberties of mankind ; whois not led by the paltry motives of quarter
ly payments ; b.tnfc scrip, &c. cannot bur
implore the blessings of Heaven 0:1 the ef
forts of a natiun, in their ftruggtes against
the tyr mts of Europe, who have leagued
to annihilate every vestige of freedom
and the rights offociety from the face ot
ill? earth. America will soon becomt
the object of these defpbts; and as we re
gard our own liberty, a id the peace, fate
ty and independence of our country, it is
our duty earnetfly to pray for the success oi
France. [ludepend. Chrou. J
[From a Virginia paper of May 5.]
The report of the American Ai..baf
fadcrt>eing killed at Parris by the people,
is .1 circumltance that has been used by the
e lemies of Freiuh freedom, as much as
pnHb e, to excite an odium against that
regenerated people. Wrjether Mr.Alorris
is, or ;s not put to de it*j, I cannot deter
mine, butif it be so. 'lis not so much mitter
of surprise that iie i« killed; as that the peo
ple had not done so lix months age. Ever
filice he has been at that court, his opiui
® l, hive been klown to favour the old
principles of monarchy—he has associated
with suspicious or detested characters —he
has been generally mark"d as he pafl'ed in
the streets with the designation of arifto
crite, which in France is fynonimous with
traitor; he has condemned without reserve,
the dethronement of the kings, u ed coutu
melioiu language of the leading republican
characters, and with aforwardnefs and im
pertinence, peculiar to him Pelf, would in
veftig-ite and piffa contumelious negative
on every republican measure, while pend
ing on debate, nay so far did he carry his
violence a,id publicity of opinion, that he
did not accompany Iris countrymen to dif
chargetlie lalt ritesand refpeit to th 1 remain:
of the. brave, the uneqnal'd PAUL JONES
giving as a reilo.i. that he had engaged
coinp my to dine with him who by the bye
were, li'<e him, enenies to tliofe who had
promoted the emancipation of man from
the ihack'es of tyranny —to these facts lei
vis add. th it a mighty 11 itiou is convulfcd ;
liberty is the general object—they hue in
ternal enemies who plot their deftrufiion ;
external foes who have waged a general
■war—their tribunals not yet organized—
their king a traitor, condemned, and exe
cuted— 1 King tcio whom a little while agn
they loved with enthmlialtic idolatry—and
we could :iot have been astonished if Mr.
Morris had b "en killed, but rath, r that he
was fuffered so long under the protection
of an American diploma, to triumph i 1
•Wueeampled folly and impertinence—l> he
be in ■ reality no more, 'tis hop. <1 that our
government will direct the choice of his
fucceffbr to one w .0 is a friend to Liber-
Tyand to Man."
\_Fram t'le Charlefltn city Gazette.]
P.irt of a speech intended to have been de
livered by a gentleman from the country,
late an officer in tne American nriry
'■ WHO can tell what part America
will take in the war?—lf Ihe tan. I hope
flie will assist the French; and if Ihe can
not, the republic of France will have my
best willies for success. 1 glory in decla
ring that I have in my ieios French blood,
beiig a defiend.mt of a persecuted and
bmilhed Pretefiant, during the reign of
the cruel tyrant and king, Louis XVI.
" I Itand forth this day to declare my
felf.i.i enemy to the machinations of in
triguing men, who may be emilFaries of
the Britilh court to etfect certain purposes
jn America, and who would make of free
republics, tyrannical ariltocraues ; and of
freemen, slaves.
" I have alfifted, with the sweat of my
brow Stud with my blood, to obtain Ame
rican independence. I have fought, with
the French, the enemies of America ; and
I ;hall teach my children to lisp, with grate
ful hearts, prail'es to their friends and de
Jivefers from Britilh tyranny and opprtfii
on.
" Poverty (hall never humb'e me in nr
political p inciples, and were I f- c. d to
v. ear oznaiiurgj and follow the plough, Hill
w mid I declare my political fentni 'nt .
Jov : my country gl . y iu serving her, and
jn bei ig grateful lothe trench.
" Native Americans, prize and fnpport
your darling government i> id Puffer not
yourselves to be over iiadowcd by exotics.
" Frenchmen, pursue your glorious ob
jefl—fpare .Uier your blood nor your
treasures, ar.d you will be free."
A trader of veracity lately arrived
from Georgia, and whose excurliom 011
the confines of the territory of the United
States, were extenlive, informs, that the
depredations of the favajres have been un
ufuallv bold ; that a number of white peo
ple are more dangerous than the Indians,
•and that the Creeks were lately joined by
iome tribes of Northern Indians, fyhicii
mil ft prove a (timulus to more open and
outrageous operations.
A frigate with several other armed ves
sels and a number of transports with troops
on board, fiiled from H.ilifax the Bth of
May on a secret expedition.
The Governor of Virginia iffiied a pro
clamation on the I.4th of May, similar to
that of the President of the United States,
commanding all perron* in the jurifdiftion
of that state to ohferve the ftriiteft neutra
lity towards the European belligerent
powers.
Since our last, an extract of a letter,
said to be from New-York, has been pub
lished in the daily papers of this city. The
intelligence it conveys is affested to have
come in a veliel from Caiais to New-Lon
don in 27 days—'• That Gen. Dumourier,
on the 6th of April, by an atlonilhing ma
ittuvre, surrounded ten thoutfand of the
dower of the Prullian army, and cut them
to pieces to a man ; the king of Prufia and
.he duke of Brunfwick, among the (lain."
None of the last New-York or Eastern pa
pers mentioning a word in confirmation ot
rh's news, it may be concluded to be wit'h
utfc-jndation. From what intelligence
las this week come to hand ; from other
[Uarters, it appears too certain that
Jumourier had quitted his army, and goue
nver to the combined powers. That the
I'oldiers, however, remained firm to the
lational cause, not a man having quit his
tandards, We forbear adding any conjec
.nresonthe causes that may have induced
i Gener.nl hitherto efteeined an inexora
ble republican, toobfene such a conduit,
In our next it is hoped it will be better in
mr power to give an authentic deta.l ot
matters, in regard to which at prefeuc we
(lave very little more than hearsay, ru
mour, and fabrication.
The English government, jealous of fee
ing the m iferable Irilh leaving their land
as (lavery, for the more eligible forefts o:
America, has put a stop to the emigratior
of redeniptioners, more particularly from
the North of Ireland. None, therefore,
but persons of properly, who may be able
to advance the paftage money for them -
selves and families, can attempt coining tc
the United States ; and even those find an
almost insurmountable difficulty, in difpo
ling of their property : so that the people
ot Ireland seem to be in a manner com
pletely imprisoned, and obliged to remain
under their present yoke.
This, however, they do not so much
.omplain of, as that of being difarnied.
Tho' this has not yet been complied with
by the Northern Volunteers.
The gun-powder ast obliges evervman
to have a licence b. fore he can purchase a
charge of gun-powder, and he mull not
li ive more than a certain quantity in his
habitation. This operates in two ways ;
s rft, as a tax by the fumspaid for those li
cences ; and secondly. by affording to go
vernment an opport. niiy of searching peo
ple's houses.
111 Scotland and l'n the North of Ireland,
there are a great portion of the peeple,
who have declared th.ir entire dilappro
jatian of monarchical government.
A writer in the Daily Advertiser of Wed
lefdiy proposes, as the best means of j.u
jifhing the Indians, and inclining them tc
i peace, to fix convenient nations at pro
>er distances from Pielq'iie to the Greai
Vliami, to be occupied by regular troops :
ill friendly Indians to be invited within the
ine 01 these stations, ard there to be af
ifted in providing for fnbliftencc : that all
expert hiintfmen and woodfinen Ihall be
nvited by a reward of 501. for every Indian
c ilp that (lioti.d be brought in, without
egard to age or sex, and to have no other
:oropenfation for their services. This me
thod lie f lleems the only effectual one to
:heik the progress of indian insolence and
rruelty.
On Thursday next (the3oth inflant) Mr.
Blanchard proposes to exhibit at Mr. Rick
jtt's Circus in this city, an experiment in
latural philofopliy.with a parachute,or fal
ling screen. by means of which a person
nay defceudfroin any height to theground.
itliout injury. This experiment, the fn 11
of the kind ever exhibited in America, will
.ake place on the day above mentioned be
tween 5 and 6 in the afternoon; if the
weather should be rainy, or the wind toe
high, the experiment will be deferred tc
the next day at the fame hour.
A writer in the General Advertiser o!
Thursday, who signs bimfelf A Citizen,
makes the following reflections on the late
conduct of some Britifli sailors in this ciity :
—" It would not in the lead surprize me
f fotne of the English sailors in this city
lionkl lose their lives, on account of their
■ it - ;:;" and ill treatment to French fai
ors. The evening before last, a French
"ailor was walking peaceably along Front
Ireet, and was unprovokedly knocked
■town by four F.ngliih sailors who were
jrovid d with clttbs for that purpose. Had
it not been for the timely i.iterpofitibn oi
"ome citizens, he would either have beer
killed or maimed, as they vowed a horrid
vengeance upon every " D—d fcoundrt
who wore a National Cockade."
Unless some steps are taken by govern
nent to afford protection to our friends
the French, I am apprehensive serious
will enCue; for either the
Freiuh will revenge thernfelvts, or their
friends among us will take lignal vengeance
011 such infamous banditti. We are no
longer under a Britiih tyranny, where
quiet people are at the mercy of their sa
vage crew, but an independent republic,
that mull feel itfelf insulted by every such
daring outrage upon its laws.—This is the
fecoud instance of ill treatment to the
French sailors that has fallen within my
own knowledge, and I hope such steps will
be taken as to make it the last. I never
met with more peaceable men than the
French sailors in this city, and I am con
vinced no diflurbance would ever happen
■vere it not For the fwaggeriug insolence
and brutality of the Britiih tars."
Certain accounts are now received of the
capture of the French island Tobago by tile
Brit<fh forces from Grenada. The garri
son having refilled to capitulate on fum
nions, tlie fort in which the whole defence
of the jfland lay, was carried by storm,
with fomc loss of men. Admire! Gardner's
fleet had arrived at Barbadoes ; an<' t it was
generally believed that the French fleet had
arrived at Mart'iiico.
Extradf of a letter from a merchant in the
island of Grenada, to his correspondent
in this town. May 2.
'• The Britiih fleet under the command
<?f Admiral Gardner, has arrived at Bar
badoes, and commodore Thompson, with
two Ihips of fjie line, and a number of fri
gates, transports, &c. having on board 3
or 4000 troops, are momently expected at
that iflan4, which will make the Britiih
forceinth» Weft-Indies amount to t4lliips
of the line, as many frigates, and eight or
ten thoiifand regular troops.-—The cap
ture of the French, illands may therefore
shortly expected."
Department (f State, to wit.
r hereby certify all whom it may concern
* that I have received .an official commu
lication of the form adc-pted for letters oi
narque by the French republic of which
"orm the following is a tranflati.in. Given
mder my hand and seal of office' this 24th
lay of May 1763. Th. Jeh/erfon.
LTBFRTY EQUALITY.
In the name of the French Republic'
The provilionary executive council ol
he French Republic permits by these pre
ents to Arm and fit out for wai
1 called the burthen tons, 01
hereabouts, aflually belonging to the por'
»t with fiich number of guns, bullets
jnantity of powder, lead and other war
ike ffores and provilions as he lhal
urlge neceflary to defend hirrrfelr against
>.rates, robbers, rovers and generally n
; linft all the enemies of the Frencl
Republic, in what p.'a.e soever he ma>
r, eet with them, to take and «ondu£
hem prisoners with their ships, prms, an<
t>(her matters of which they may be poflef
■d : pro' ided, by the laid that he go
v ern himfelf according to marine regu--
atioiis and ordinancies oi the reprefenta
ives of the F'rench people, particularly th<
onrth article of the <lecrce of January 31
cfpefiting the number of men neceflary t<
iiake up his crew, and to cause thel'c pre
"ent Letters ot Marque to be registered ir
:lie Bureau des Clafles at the place fron
ivhich he shall fail, and to deposit there ;
ift, signed and certified by himfelf, wit!
lie Dumes, fumames, age, place of birtl
md abode of the people of his crpw ; anc
ipon his return, to make report before ar
officer employed in the administration o!
he clafles, ol whatever may have happen
d during his voyage.
The provilionary executive council re
sells all peopie, friends and allies of the
r'rench republic, and their agents to render
:o the (aid every alliltance, the free
jading and repaffing in their ports, with hi
aid vefl'el and the prizes he may have made,
lereby granting the fame permission in si
milar cases. It is recommended and en
ioincd to the commanders of public vefleh
:o fufl'er the said to pass freely with
tiis veflel and those he may havetaken from
the enemy, and to render him every suc
cour and affiflrnce.
These presents not to be in force but
for mouths only, reckoning from the
iate of thear being recorded.
In faith whereof the provilionary exe
cutive council of the republic has caused
these letters ro be signed by the minister ol
marine, and the seal of the republic to be
thereunto affined.
Given at Pa.ris the day of one
thousand seven hundred and
and year of the French republic.
[Signed,)
M O N Y.
By the ?>iinijier of marine,
(Signed,)
COTTRAN.
( Seal.)
Except this, no form is valid.
Letters from the windward islands fay,
that the Britiih illands of St. Kitts, Gre
nada, and Antigua are open for the im
portation oflumber and provision in Ame
rican vefleis.
The Britifli frigate Andromeda, of 32
nms, is cruising 011 this coast, directly from
E gland. The WLnchelfea is also said to
3e cruiling in the American seas.
Extract of a letter from Gibraltar.
" Since the commencment of hollilities
against France, our small squadron station
ed here, have captured 15 French fliips ;
eight of them with valuable cargaes of fu
j; ir, coffee, cotton and indigo, from the
illands, tome with wines and brandy for
the northern ports, and others with aflorted
cargoes from Marseilles, bound to the
Weft Indies."
"Wefoon expect here a ccnfiderable
squadron of Britiih, Dutch and Ruffian
fliips of war; these are to be joined b>
about 20 fliips of the line from Spain, tha:
are ready at Cartfjagena, v Jiich will.makc
;i very ionnictabi'e fleet; what, their in
tentions are, tin;e will diicovtr, fume
?nterprize mull be in bgiuition. The
French have failed in their expedition a
jainft the island of Sardinia, iiiiti nit with
Lonfiderabie k)fs, tfieir fquadion has reti
red to Toulon, where we imagine- they
will remain during the war." . c
A correspondent requests the publication of
the following Recipe to cure can
cers, which he pronounces effectual from
his own experience, as well as ioiiii?
hundreds of others.
' r pAKE a bulhel of red oak bark, and
burij it to allies : take the afi es anil
)01l them in three gallons of water, until
lie water is reduced to one gallon, then
:rainit, and boil it again till.it is retimed to
i thick substance (miliar to butter-milk, or
:ream ; then spread a plailler of it on lilk
jr lint, and renew the piaifter once in two
lours until the roots of the cancer are well
Hired. It will sometimes take four, and
"ometimes fix planters : but dont be dif
ouraged if it lliould take twelve."
Department of State, to wit.
information lias been re.
ceived that the municipality officer 1 ' of
he city of Dunkirk ha\e withdrawn the
3uoy which marked the entrance into the
-oad of that harbour, notice thereof is
lereby given to all mailers of veilels of the
Jnitod States, mariners and others whom
t nwy concern.
Given under my hand this 24th day of
Vlay 1795- Th. Jefferfon.
READING HOWELL,
To the citizcns of Perinjylvania.
HF. has new the piealure of .prcknti% Get
only to them but to the v.o>ld a: large
lis Map, the oonftant labour of fix jears, during
■vhich time he e\erted his ablings, faring nei
:her money nor labour in it to its pre
sent perfection. Not having the a&ftance o? a
preceding map founded on authentic
\\ft was obliged to compile it ficrn detached fur
ve\s col e£ted from the or.e to the othe; dxnepie
of the State at < very heavy expence. yet lun
iry small prrts of the map rtmain bl iik tor
want of materials, which he int&nds completing
2s they can be procured. He preftmes that the
work is as correal, if not more so, for the feme
;xtent of country, than ai y 4 map heretofore pro
iuced, even in the oldest countries j this howe
ver he is wiiliig to fubneit to their impartial
; well knowing that the nature of the
*o»k docs rot not admit of absolute ptrfe£tiori>
WKat error« it may contain he wishes to be in
ormed of, in order far their correction on the
>Ures.
He has also for sale his fma'l maps of Penn
ylvan'a to which he has 1 ate'y added the county
ines, furvcyors difl/itts as they rre at prilentj
'oft road to the Genel'ce country, &c. See,
Maps of the State of Jersey done since the re
solution.
Maps of the world id sets, of the best impreifi*
?n.- ■ -Do. of th< city of London, &c. See'.
Which maps, as well as well as manv others he
>uts on Jinnen j colours the iefpe6tive diviijons,
farnKh.-s, and mounts on ;o lers or frames, pnet
:uts an., so ds them for pocket carriage in a ltile
qually elegant, if not exceeding those done in
uondon j of which he has fpecimecs.
North fifth street No. 88.
3t February the ift* 1793.
INTIMAT IO N *
Re/petting James Fairweather, foTnetime in
the fourth brigade of Britijh artillery.
DAVID FAIRWfc.ATh.tR, la e leeulmari
in the Piealance of Edinburgh, North BrU
;aiu, hawing died in the month of November last,
;he aforefaid james Fairweather, his only son,
ucceeds to his father's heritable and Zonal el
ate, which is considerable. His relations are
mxioys if he be alive, that h? fli -uld immediately
eturn to Edinburgh, and on applying to Mr.
William Why te, writer, in Charles (treet, tdrn
surgh, he will be put in pofl'efiioft of his fathtr'a
:it a te. Ihe aforefaid James Fairweather, it i$
Believed, was left at New-Y«*rk, in North Ame
ica when the British army evacuated that city,
it is requeued that any person who has leen or
leard of him since, or knows of his present rt'fi
lence, or of his death, will transmit any intelli
gence concerning him to Mr. Robert Cam; bell,
uookfelter In Philadelphia, or Mr. Samuel Camp
jell, bookseller, in New-York. Any formatter
br other person, who wi.l bring the fald James
Fairweather to Er .tuin, or advance liim money for
[hat puroofe, will be rep-aid by MefTrs. Campbell,
>r Mr. Why te. If the said James Fairweather be
lead, his children if he left any> are entitled to the
iforefaid fucceflion, on proving their proi inquitv.
May 4. t /
Journeymen Saddlers
WANTED,
By the Sociecv of Maftcr Sadofers of the city
01 Philadelphia—FiJteen or twenty v.', rk
me,) oftlieabqve prot'effion.wiilmeet uith constant
rmploj ment ana generous wares, by applv in ß lo
WILLIAM JONES, to the (bciety* 1:
No. 3, South Front-street.
A P ril a - 23W 6t
STRAY MARE. "™"
CAME to the plantation ut William William
lon, late of Litrle Britain townlhip,
atler county, on Ine loth day oflall /Vpiil, a
small Ba\ Mare, a natural trottrr, about 13 hands
lugh ; (he was then advertised and since aipra .ed
The owner is once moie desired to come, prove
property, pay charges, and take her away, othe -
wile (lie will be fold in two months from th
te by MARGARfcT WILLIAMS ON.s
MaJarch aj, jjfr j,Second Trial of LOtflS CAPET.
L 1 ranjlated fm 7 a St. Dimingo Paper
of April 9. j
jj HE shores of the river Acheron were
JL lately covered with animmenfe nam
her or dead, who asked a pafTage across ;
and Charon, fatigued with labour, was by
n o means in a good humour with his pas
fengers. Every one would go over firft,
and the boatman, to avoid giving um
brage, determined to (hew a preference
to merit only.—An old grenadier firft ap
peared, and infilled on pafiing over im
mediately, because he loft his life Jn the
attack on the I3adile. This circumdance
gained him indant admiflion. Defiilles
related the aTair at Nanci, and Charon re
ceived him and it will be readily
conje&med that the vidtims of the 10th ol
Aliguft, were not mortified with a refu
fal. While Chiron was receiving all these
brave fellows on board, he ob'erved a fat
man, fhnrter by the head at least than the
others, who looked very four ai the recit*.'
of the actions ofthofe who had firll pas
fed. As there now remained to be car
ried over only a few priests and macaro
iii's, Charon gave him leave to step ir
without further examination, and withou
knowing hirr. D'.ring the passage hi
enquired, but could not learn whether hi
had been a citizen, a pried, or a noble
man. He ghod feeing Charon mucf
embarrassed, thus addressed him, in a me
jancholv tone of voice. " Yon seem anxi
oils to l.rtw who I am—leirn then, thai
in times pad I have made laws, and af
ter-/ :'ds caused them to be executed, bui
v. s at lad executed myfelf."
How! (said Charon) was you the la'i
king of the French ? Ghofl—Undoubt
edly— and facrificed to a faction of whoir
my dear relation is the head. Charon —
Say rather, that you fell a facriHce to youi
own treaclmy and the intri ues of youi
brothers ; for, why were y >u not ttue ti
the oath you took, when you c epte j the
constitution ? Why was the civil lilt reve
rue expended at Coblentz and at fevera!
other places, and indeed wherever the re
bels could be found, who were all nobleif
and your friends, notwithftandiug the cor.-
ftitution you had f\v f to maintain? Gh j
—I always bore an excellent charadter; ]
thought my people had need o' being go
kerned, not having capacity to goverr
themselves. I saw a great number of mi
dear filer,ds in Germany, who were daily
riflting their lives in my service. I couk
not otherwise thart make them fomecom
pens tion, and the civil lift revenue wa;
all 1 could get at for the purpose. Thii
was all I had to offer them. In my fitua
tion, every man would have done th(
fame thing. My only concern now is
tlsat my people are not happy, and wil
not recognize my good intentions.
Charon—Rather be concerned for your
felf and those of your description on earth,
You are soon to appear at the judgmeni
feat of Minos, that inexorable judge, whe
has no more partiality for kings than foi
the meansft qf the people. Ghoji—What
do you suppose then that Minos is com
miflioned with power to judge one of thi
mod powerfrll monavi is th :t ever lived 01
earth ? Charpn—How !do you who havi
butjud quitted the • o-intry of liberty anc
equality, you who are nothing but dud anc
athes, do you dill retain the pride of youi
former court, and the insolent spirit ol
your brother rovalids ? Lay aside such
impudence, which will not be borne with
at the bar of Min-s, and please to recoiled
that Fortune in placing you for a moment
at the he:id of a great empire, did not
theieby dedroy, and never will dedrov that
(ird law of nature, Equality. Ghojt—
Dues Minos make use of Letttes de cachet r
Chiron —What do you mean by that v ord:
Qhojl —It is a mod convenient contrivance
to extend the power of the sovereign
snd shut-up the mou'hs of those who are
bold enough to publish the weaknefTes of
great men. By means of a Lettre de ca
chet a prince can (hut up forever from so
ciety any of his fubjefts that are so unfor
tunate as to offend him. Charon—ln this
country we have a mi:ch more equitable
law, the law of retaliation (here the dead
roan gave a dismal grin : Charon then set
him ashore, bidding him be of good cou
rage, firft ffeing him to pay his passage.
The ghost gave h'm an affignat, or nation
alncte) Charon—Hah! what is this ? do
you think I am to be put off with the fc; ap
of an old balla- ? Ghojl—Why, this ir,
god, fait paper money, such aa circulates
through my whole kingdom. Charon—
How can it be that France, reputed so
fine a country, so rich, and it? people so
industrious ; how is it poflible that (he can
pay tier debts with ft'.ch paper rags as this!
Ghoji—France has been compelled to it,
ever since my wife ( Antoinette)to indulge
her whims and affiit her family, engrofled
all the coin in the kingdom. Chiron —
W.i it a let of devils! a tine famdy indeed !
Come ! you mufl fir;d some way to pay me
in hard money. Ghofi —I; is impoflible—
hut Hop—l have a little gold box contain
ing the relics of the blcfied St. Labre. It
was given me by my con efTor, but I mall
now make life of it to pay my pafiage.
[Here the boatman took the box, threw
the reliques upon the ground, and shewing
Louis Capet the road, wilhed him a plea
fant journey. J
[The remainder in cur next. J
PHILADELPHIA, May 25.
M. Mangourit, French Couful al
Char'eft'm, gave public notice in tlx
Charlcfton pap-rs of April 30, that from
the repeated insults offered to the Frencl
citizens in that place by the Engiifh fai
lors, they 1 have resolved to walk no long
er thro' the flreets of that city, without
proper weapons to chastise the irrfults o
the Britifli ruffians.
( From the Ch.rlejlon City Gazette. )
" IT is roundly afleited, that becauft
the French are allowed to fit out privateer
from this port, in orderto cruile againll
their enemies, that we Hull be involved ir
a war, and with whom ? With Great-Bri
lain I Fir ft let me a(k what are the French
to us ? Allies by the bonds of mutual
friendftiip and congenial (entiment—whal
are the British to us as a nation ? Nothing.
hut to some indivi u i's, alt in all. With
the French nation v-e have a treaty of al
liance foaled with the blood of each party;
a treaty which they made with us when
we wc r e diltreffed by Britain, an I by
ivhich we completed the work of our in
Impendence ; gratitude therefore, without
111 i 9 rreaty, vould compel every Amen
an to love the F er h ration, and to pre
fer their fiendlhip etore all others. I
lave foinewhat digrefi'cd, therefore to re
turn to the dreadful appi-hinfions -
" Privateers are not only si tid out ol
his port, but Americans are conccrnec
1 herein 1 hence it will follow that Great
Britain will consider it as a commence
ment of hollilities, and will avenge the
insult by declaring war against America."
riuch are the appreheniions of some, who
[her fore have thought it requifhe to cal!
the ciiiz' ns together, to take necessary
(teps for th salvation of poor America.—
Now, firs, we will admit it to be a fad,
that the privateer, Citizen Genet, is part
ly owned by Americans, nay, that hei
crew is partly Americans. Is not hei
captain French ? Is she not commiffionec
by the F ench Republic? Wi 1 (he not
light and capture prizes under the nationa
flag? Surely not e will deny this, and the
r i of its being so ; but because I, whe
am an American, chufe' to attach myfeil
to the French, and they have made war
against England, mull it follow that all
America is liable to answer for me as an
individual? Did this Bate, or the gover
nor thereof, fit out in a public manner,
and with a declared refolntion, privateer:
to cruise against the Britilh, it might in
volve the (late, but in my opinion, not the
Union, while they disavowed it. Pray,
Messrs. Printers, what will become of rt
nerica (hould her sons, who are now in the
armies of the F ench Republic, step ove;
the channel with Gen. Dumourier and in
vadeEngland; will the almighty parliament
of G. Britain declare war againll America,
! >ecaufe 1 or 200 of her sons have joined the
jovial fetwhoare hunting down heieditary
lefpotifm and tyranny throughout Europe:
I fancy not, therefore little,. pprehenfiom
can be held by America of an evil which
may ensue, to disturb her internal peace ir
consequence ofprivateershaving been fitted
out of this port by the French—besides,
have we not seen the.fame done in every
war. I will not apply to the war Ameri
ca had with England, for some American;
(at least they were born in America]
were in the Britilh army, and a few nativt
Britons were in the American service ;
but have not instances been known, thai
even when Enpland has been at war with
France, that the latter have received sup
plies from the foimer: and are there not
Englifl), Scotch & IrisH continually in the
armies of France ? Can it be hindered or
avoided ? No, not even by the despotism
or that barbarous tyrant of the north.
Man by nature is f.ce, and he will be lo
whenever he chufes to exert or afiume
Ins right. lam free to enter into any
ervice, or become a citizen of any nation
Wiio w.ll receive me. If the French re
public fit out privateers in this port, they
° no more than by treaty they have a
J >ght ; and this right the governor of no
lute in the union can either lessen or
take away and if on fitting out a private
vefFtl of war, Americans fiiou.d enter
on board, yet while {he is commissioned
y the French republic, (he is boncjidt
f rcnch, and the law of retaliation can nc
farther operate, on the fide of Great Bri
tain, i han as (lie can life it againlt Fraiict
ilireiStly. And however that in any enp
lures which England may mak,e of the re
public s private ships, orany other, of war,
iome of the crew, nay, some of the officer:
may happen to becitizens of America,it car
only affect them individually End not then
country ; and that, during the contest be
tween those two powers, this will fre
quently be the cafe, can admit of little
doubt. All the rclt refpefting the fit
ting out, See. in our ports, is done by trea
ty, which I truil no poweron earth willoi
can ever induce S. to violate."
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.
May 1793.
E. IterAW.ni. Mather
r, M> '4- 6 29. r- Sg S . Fair.
AT °y- ~-9 ' H-j VV. C.iaudj
ll' e ancjd«j, .5. c 30. t f 0 lv . r a ]r~.
" 3° 2 71 do. do.
t burjdtty, 16. 6 30. 5 ; 0 N. fa;'.
________ " "• 0 69 do do.
fnday, , 7 .'t 30. . 44 Jira .
3 3°" 2 i 74 • W. do.
Saturday, ,b. fc 30. II 61 W. Cloudy
'' 3°' ' Si do. Fair.
*unday t jc. t 30. I~ s \7Z7.~~
3 3 Q< 1 S q W. Shower
Monday, 20.6 30. VV. [ ~Va7T
3 3 0, 1 87 ]^ # W.|,S«>ciwo.
TO BE RENTED,
And poflVllion given in July next.
A Merchant MI L L,
ALSO, a COUNIRY and a SAW MILL
either separately or together, vv>#h all th«
.oi;vcnicncies thereunto belonging, consisting of ;
: <od framed dwelling houf?, store house, granary
-oopers /hop, stables, &c. all in perfett good or
;er and almost new, situate in a fine wheat couit
:ry, on a constant and plentiful ltream of water
.t the head of a navigable creek, called Miflipilion
rom whence the shallops transport flour to Phila
elphia without any trouble to the miller ; and ad
>ining a flourilhi.-ig village that always affords ;
• y ready lale for the oiTal of the merchant mill
;ad an abundance of cufiom to the country an (
aw mills. Those advantages render these mifl
1 frior to none in this »ountry j and the fuuation!
r a itore is equal to any in the state. Tlx
Tierchant mill is three stories high •• ith two pai
>t burr stones, double gear'd, a rolling fcreene anc
ann that cleans wheat into both hoppers, tw»
molting chests, and a machine for hoifling that goe
ay water. This mill manufactures principal!'
uperfine flour, that is much efteerr.ed as such ii
Philadelphia. For terms apply to Robert Lewi:
ind Co. merchants in Philadelphia, or the sub
icribcrs near the premises.
ELIZABETH THORNE,
PETER CAVERLY.
Milford, Kent County, .State of Delaware
May. j, 1793. 2a wt
I Have claims to about two hundred am
fifty thousand acres of LAND in the state 01
K.entuckey, in different parts of that country
ome of which I know to be equal to any ; al
wheh I am inclined to dispose of, either bi
•ntire sale, or by admitting one, or two partners
:o whom the agency on the whole will be com
mitted.
One fourth of the contra# will be required ir;
iand, either in cash, merchandise, or such affei:
is may be converted to a&ive ufc, the re/idu<
nay be apportioned in convenient instalments,
The purchasers to give security, on the land]
>r otherways,as suits them.
Knowing that there is a prejudice against th<
itles of land in that state, which is more genera
han just, J am willing to stipulate in the con
"ra.<fl, that a discount, or deduction, Ihall be
nade, where any land may be loft, by reason ef i
iefedtive title.
Any person inclining to such a purchase, is re
uefted to write to me by post, in answer t<
>vhom, more particular information will be given.
HENRY BANKS.
Richmond March 20, 1793. 2a wtf
■ II
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold by Thomas DobsoN, W il
ll am Yoitng, Robert Campbell,
Meflrs. Rice and Co. and John M-
Culloch, No. 1. North Third-street,
A N EXAMINATION of the late pro
ceedings in Congress refpeeting tiic
official coi-iduft of the Secretary of the
I reafury; with Observations, &c. on the
application of loans from Holland, negoti
ated under the atts of the 4th and 12th ei
AugulV 1790. —The price of the above
pamphlet is three sixteenths of a dollar, or
is 4d. 1-2. April aawcf'
PRICE current.
Dollars. Cm ts.
(100 Cents make i dollar.)
A.HES, pot per ton taod/oijjd
,7 pearl <Jitto 1 4(1 tn i4od
bacon, fiitches per lb Bto c.c
boulders do
Beet, Boston per barrel I2d
— Country do 91! food
Beer, American in bottle's
including bottles per doz. id 40c
——ditto per barrel 4 d 67c
Bee? wax per lb 2( -, c 2Ce
Brandy, Coniac per gat 90C lcc .c
common do Soc to 85c
!Vi! tte r ln '- e 2 s P crlb J2C Ije
Cneefe, Country per lb 8c 13c
— —En-lilh , 9C
Chocolate lßc JOC
per bufliel 24c ,- c
Codfifh per cwt 3d 53c
Coffee pcrlb ,2C ,y C
Copperas per cwt ,li 67c
Cordage, American per cwt 6~c 8u
Cotton per lb 26c 2 g c
V ax per -b , Jc ; 2c
r laxfeed per bufli. 9 oc
1 lour fuperfine per barrel cd
common jd 2 j C
Bur-middlings, best
Meal Indian per bbl. cd
Rye, do 3d ,| c
Gin, Holland per cafe 4 d 30c
— per gallon 80c 9cc
Ginfi.ni; 20c 2^c
Gunpowder, Fine glazed per qr c
Grain, Barley perbuhel lt i
Best {helled per bushel 2d 67c
Buckwheat per bushel 4 q C
Indian corn ;dc LOC
Jersey, do 6 , c
Oars OJC
R y e (■;<: 70c,
Wheat id 12c to id sjc
Hams per lb 9 c to , oc
Hemp, imported per ton J2 od iqMtrc
American per lb 4c jc
Hides, raw per lb oc n c
Heps 3 JS
rio'iey per lb g c
[ndigo, Carolina pcrlb id id aoc
French id 20c id jlc
Iron, Bar per ton g 4 d
Cartings per cwt g-]
Nail-rod? per ton joCd 67c
Pig 2 4d
Silee t 173 d 33c
Irons, fad ivd ; -c
Lard hogs per lb icc we
Leather, focri per lb lyc 2oc
Vtyr'le wax perlb J2 e.
MolaHes pergallon 44c 4/C
Multard, flour, in bot. per doz, jd ;cc
second quality, per doz. Sjc
N'ails, 8(1 jod iad and 2<sd per Ib. joc
Oil, Linseed per gallon 63c
Olive gt c
per cafe 2 d 50c
Pepper per Ib I. v 38c
Pimento ,„ c
'itch per bbl jd
Porter per calk s<! 33c
London per dot id hoc
Amer. bot. inclu. id (,p C
Pork. Burlington, per bbl 13d 33c
Lower county j/n
'Carolina
S-ice per cwt 3d
Rum, Antingna pergal ",d
Barbadoes 87c
Country, N. E. f I2C
Jamaica id 12c
Saltpetre p=r cwt x 4 d 3^
Salt, Alium, per bufti 33c
Cadiz 2?c
Lilbon • ' 2 - c
Liverpool 3^ c
Snakeroot perlb 20142 c
Snuff, per doz. bet. 4 d sc! 60c
perlb 33:4(ic
3oap, Brown perlb ( lC
White 8 C
Siarch p«r Ib y C
Sugar, Havannah, white, perlb 17c i.gc
Brown 11C12C
Muscovado per cwt 13d ijd
Lump per lb t 2 / t c
Loaf, single refined, ~ 24c
double ditto 33c
Tallow, refined, per lb 1
Tar, New-Jersey 24 gal per bbl id
Carolina, 32 gal 2 d-
Tea, Hyson per lb 93c id 2Sc
Souchong 50c 93c
Bohea 33c36c
Tobacco, James River, best 4 d 33c
Inferior 3d 13c
Old 4<l 67c
Rappahannock 3d 33c
Coloured Maryland 5d 33c id
Dark 2 d 4 cp
Long-leaf : d 40c 1
Eaftern-fliore 2d 2d 23c
Carolina, new 2d 7c 3d
Old 3d 33c
Turpentine per bb-1 2d 33c
Wine, Madeira, p. P. 1 jU\ 22
-Lisbon 1 cod 126 d
TenerifFe pergal 671:
Sherry 90c to id
PUNTED IY
C H I L D S AND SWAINE,
AT THEIkOFFICE NO» »1C Hf- STRR SJ t
fIEAR FUTH-STRTST,
ry 1 L A L PH I A,