Numb. 4.7 of Vol. ll.] WEDNESDAY, April 10, 1793-
Additional Report of ihe Secretary of the
Trcafury, relative to the Loans negocia
ted under the Ails of the 4th and 12th of
Augufl, 1790.
[Continued from our lafl.
HENCE it is only true that the treasury
bills sometimes answer the purpose of
cash to the bank—whence it does notfol
low, that they ought always to be conl'ui
ered and credited definitively It
is also true, though in a less degree, that
notes deposited with the bank by individu
als foh collection', sometimes answer to it
the purposes of ca(h—but it w ill be readi
ly perceived that it would be inadmiflible
as a sreneral rule, to receive and credit them
as such.
The effect in both cases would be, that
the bank v ould make an advance of a pre
fsnt fcim -without interejl, for a sum to be
received in future.
An arrangement indeed has been for
some time depending between the bank of
the United States and the treasury for se
curing to the government the advantage o
an immediate, abjolute credit for the bi i
deposited, as so much calh—to be couple.:
with some collateral accommod itions t ( -
the bank. But it has not yet been carrh • !
into effect. The fact heretofore, has been
as Itated, and the reafoiiing, to be jutt,
mull proceed on that bafu.
The lad of the two politions which have
been cited, has l'lill lels foundation than
the firft.
A film received to day, for a bill depo
sited two months pail, can in 110 view be
deemed a substitute (or the amount of a
bill deposited to day, to be received two
months hence. It is to be remembered,
that the amomt of the firft bill, was itfelf
credi'.'d at' the time of the deposit ; and
that the sum received to day on that ac
count can only realize the antecedent cre
dit. It cannot represent or be an equ va
lent for the future receipt upon a different
bill. i'-JTaffirm that ifcotfta, is to m.'.ke
one sum the reprefentutive of two. — Ihe
conference of the reasoning would be,
that the government ought to receive the
money paid in to day as a fatisfa£tion, as
well for the bill deposited to day, as for
that which was deposited two months part.
Making the proper deductions 011 ac
count of the bills ; the amount of the ef
fective caih in the Banks at Philadelphia,
New-York and Baltimore, was on the firft
of June, 587,091 dollars and 11 cents; in
other banks there was then also the fur
ther sum of 9591 dollars and 89 cents,
making together 596,683 dollars ; the
amount of the effective cafli on the second
of July in the Banks at Philadelphia, New-
York and Baltimore was 217,234 dollai
and -6 cents ; there were then alio in the
other Banks 184,998 dollars and 85 cents,
m iking together 402,233 dollars and 61
cents; the amount of tlie effective calh or.
the firft of October in the Banks at Phila
delphia, New-York and 8.-ltimo.e, w;:
244,394 dollars aixl 27 cents; there
then also in the other Banks 145 4-'° dol
lar; and 24 cents, making together
dollars and 51 cents.
The deductions for bills at the fevera!
periods were June ill, 157,508 dollars anc
33 cents —July 2d, 220,900 dollars—Octo
ber 1 ft, 31,100 dollars ; so that including
the bills at that epoch, the whole sum li
the banks at Philadelphia, New-York anc
Baltimore, amounted to no more thai"
275,494 dollars and 27 cents; the sums ir
the other banks to 145,420 dollars and 2J
cents.
On the firft of June, there were paid or
account of the debt to France 100,000 dol
lars ; the day following, the firlt install
ment of 100,000 dollars, 011 account ot tin
loan froin the Bank was received. 011 the
30th of June, the 2d instalment oi
jco,ooodollars was received. These tw e
Lnltalments, amounting to 200,000 dollar:
are included in the sum of 217,234 dollar:
and 76 cents, which, on the 2d of July,
constituted the caih in all the Banks al
Philadelphia, New-York and Baltimore.
About the beginning of Augult, anothei
installment on account of the loan of the
Bank was received, and on the 29th o:
September another ; making with the pre
ceding ones. 400,000 dollars. This fun
was involved in the balance in the Trea
ftiry on the ift of October, which, it ha:
been seen, did not exceed in the Banks a:
and near the feat of the government,
including even unfold and unpaid bills.
37.5,494 dollars and 27 cents ; and, compre
hending the sums 111 all the other Banks,
amounted to no more than 420,914 dollars
and ji cents.
By P. FRENE A U: Publijhed Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Doll
From the foregoing deta'l it appears,
that excluding the 200,e0C(l0llars received
oil loan of the Bank oi the United States,
iii the month of June there would have
been, on the 2d of July 1793, in the com
mand of the Treasury at thole place:,
si om which immediatefupplies may be de
rived, no greater fi:m than 17.2 34 dollar,
and 76 cents ; that ex tiding."the 4co.cc.'
dollars, before that tin.c received on lua
ot' the fame Bank, there w uld have bee.
on the firlt ol Occobtr, 179-, an ablolute
deficiency within the scene described, o
124,505 dollars and 73 cent* ; that t!i
whole balai-.eetheninthe Treasury where
I', ever cleponted, amounted only to 420.91
dollars and 51 ccnts, and excluding t,.e loan
of the Bank would not not e been n.or
than 20.91 4 dol.ars and 5 1 cents-
There mpft be fame very radical error
in my conceptions 01 the proper co. d 11 ■■
of the Treasury, if it was not in a futhci
i-ntly low (late, (luring rhe wiiole p i»'.«
under conlideration ; and it it be notcu
montirated, that the monies taken of the
Bank on loan were riecclii iy for the pub
lic service, and were obtained with a due
regard to economy.
There are ( ;ci es which Pill fur
ther manifeft the attention which has bee.l
p..id to this print. p ers given to
uake loans .or do> c purpefes at dil -
ier. ut times, up ti Bth t -Vay, i~Q3-
.•c:iiprehendan ;'?.j»r j .teot 1,053.35s < !o >-
I.;s .. ..d 74 C»- . ■0 fe wllil ll t'.a\ ..
been afltirilly obtained upon intered
amount to no n'.or.- than 4i~ > dollars.
Thecont: ,t 11, on \* ::c 1 ; e 4.10,001'
dollar* were obui-xil wa " •• the 25th
of May, 1792, exie'iding 1 > 52;. jo • dol
lars, and contrrnnlatm;; ine p:.; uv. Nt o
400,000 d"!la of t.iat lii. ta ■
.n ecju.il m«. ;t liy in!.- iiiijcn'.s, f.;> ' '
on the firfi of June, and ending 1 - 1
September; the residue on the if- >'• .!■
nuary, 1793-.
Previous toJhe• rr ding iMhot co«»»
there h id been flipi-'ai -d to be p..id on ac
count of the French < ebt. it;. iupp ; es ti
St. Domingo, 400,000 doll .rs, oi which
1-4 was paid in March, another fourth was
payable cn the ill of June, aiot-er fourth
on the firft of September, a.id another
fourth on the ift of December.
Particular causes rendei ed it.inccoramo
d'ltion to theagents ot Fr. n.e to po<'ponec
subdivide the Septei- her inl'-.llmi ru. A
(imilar poftpont ment took plice, with re
gard to the inftailme't payable the ba
on the j!V of September, which wa m"
demanded 'tilltheirtter c: d the month,
and the remainder o' the < < 1 r'tra ed
for has not vet been dem 'd 1 Tie spi
rit iff the precaution, w i •l p red to the
public the privilege >■" 1 • iorbe.ir
ing its calls, act to c.. cumltances.
needs no cofmi e.ir
There re: ' h-' noticed two cir
cuit ■ ' lets :ii '.'.ill serve to th 'ow ad
ditional light up - ' r' conduct which ha
been observed w , 'gain to the Ami:
iron time to tin:e k-.pr on hand. A com
parifonof the Aims i the tre 'fury durinp
riie years rn an i~ will cor.t d.ci
the idea df any ti eiition to Ad" r the
public monies to a.tiipni.ate, for l ie be
nefit of the bank of the Uni', d States and
it, fubtlivifions and will at t'n fame time
indicate the general»ille w he. .1 has govt r"-
ed. In this comparison, it is neceiiary to
recollect that larger operations w ere to be
performed in 192.
[To be continued-]
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
On Tuesday evening lalt arrived at New-
York, from Falmouth, with the Febru
ary mail, the Britilh Packet Roebuck, 1 y
which London papers are received to the
13th of February. The moll material
intelligence is as follows :
FRENCH NATIONAL CONVENTION.
F rjdAY, Feb. 1.
Report of M. Brijsot on the condutl cj
England towards France.
THF. Court of England willies for wri
—the hope cheriflied by those who regard
with horror a wa** between two fiee na
tions, is now no more ; the hoilile views
of the court of London are at la.t discover
etl. A perfidious mafii ol neutrality iiiii
covered them- Your republican finnnefs
lias caused that mall, to fa.l oir.
GEORGE has debauched the opinion of
the Engjilh nation : he has dillurbed com
merce, he has given orders to parliament;
h has menaced the ministers, and upon this
coalition, he now declares war against you,
In-cuife he believes the moment arrived
when he may with fafety and impunity era
, U.v his forces against ynitr liberty ; he has
declared war agauilt you by ordering your
i nbalt .dor to depart from England within
: .'ht days; he has declared it by publicly
Ldtifyiiig marks of sorrow for the l'ate ot
the conspirator, whom you had justly ton
;!e nned to punishment; lie has declared »t
ny demanding from parliament, upon the
iteilUynte of ii S death, a considerable ad
dition of forces by laud and sea. l'o dif
-111 ig.iomiiddbfly theagent of the repub
lic , a.id to rill Oil the intelligence of the
.leatll of the traitor, is it not to fay to Eu
rope,to tiie universe "France has condenin
rt Lonis as a traiior, and I believe him
n..0 c-.it, I fee in France only rebels ami
acrilegious persons ? France no longer
•. iihes'for a king or royalty, and 1 wiw to
i i "e the ki.ig and royalty ? Rather may
•j'f,gland pel iih than behdld the eftabliih
,!,:ut of the French republic"
Such is the barbarous wilh of the king of
Ireat-Britain, if he did not immediately
,nd openly declare war against you, it wa;
ijecaiife his ministry did not second with
futlicient aOivity, his orders of vengeance,
lecaufe his forces were not yet prepared tc
Jellroy our commerce, to take from us om
. olollies, to rav age our country. U ndoubt
, , v if til." Englilii people had not allowed
.licinfelves to yield to the forcible impulft
die mir.iiiry, they would have coulider
•d the olfences with which we are re
■ o: ched, only as thecr':me> of individuals;
hey would hare regard d the punilhment
ai Louis as a great act ot justice ; and, con
ii.ceci of these truths, would have bee;; ol
ipinion, that to declare war against lis,
bee life we do not wilh for a king, wohlc
u ail act of injustice, and a violation ol
he aw of nations, and that we might ha\c
.oiitiniiid to have been brothers, thougli
...u-t-a- diiiereut form of government.
Such, u ithout doubt, is the fcntimentol
j great part of the Er.glilli, and which
.. n.d have already displayed itfelf, if it
iad not been for the terror of bayonets ;
•Lit the Euglilh nation once enlightened by
.m. example, will at last do justice on it:
. a.;., i- . 011 its conspirators in place. The
t'urce ofthe eternal trial of baitings will
..ot be renewed, and fcaftolds will once
uior ilz' of use r tlie Stafiords and Laud 1 :
ii: iii- government, as well as for private
. nil. >. is.
Citizens, it would not be proper to dif
lemble from you the dungers of the nev.
>. r; we have II the tyrants of Furope ti
lumbat by land and sea. Ail the people
alone are our all'es ; but these people are
nothing let you, lot they are in chains, and
r.icic chains must firft be broken. All your
means ti.en must depend upon yonrfelves
:,lone. V our foil, you. .ndul'ry. yourcou
, .i e. mu!; fuppiy what nature and circuiu-
Ita .ces refute y< u.
'1 he trader, forgetting his commerce,
must become a warrior, thole who ha\ c
capitals mult employ their funds tofuppo. i
• uir alll.rnats, and .upply the w ant of mo
ney ; the proprietor ol land, and labourer,
renouncing ad speculation, must furnifl
he means of abundance, during the opera
. ions of the war, every citizen, like a Ro
n.in soldier, must march, not only with nit
irms, but with provisions tor a given time,
md thus you will defeat the calculations ol
your enemies with refpecttp the emptinel
ifyour magazines. Ihe great family ol
; renchiiien mull compose only one army,
md all France must form oniy one camp,
.vhere nothing but war is talked ol—where
lothing is pursued but war. Above all.
.'ou 11111 ft espeft distress, and prepare your-
Vlvts for futfering every fptcies of want;
fnortly indeed, it must be a crime, for a
:itizen to have a change of cloathing, ii
:here is one oi our brothers v. ho isdeftitute
jf covering.
To declare that France is at war with
F.ngtandis likewise to declare war pgainll
the Statdholder of Holland, 'i he llntd
holder, who is rather the lubjeit than the
ally of the court of St. James's,- who ha;
been, and frill is, a pafave ipfrumuit in
their hand , who, in fubi< rvience to ail
their inclinations, has in the courfeof the
revolution favoured the emigrants and the
Prufllans, harralTcd the French, and treated
with iafolence the French government.
1 here allude to the circumltances ot re
-1 eating the perlons gmlty oirfoig.i.g
nats arretted in JHoiiand. The slaulhcloei
arms in the mean tin e to i'upport the war
of the court <.i London, joins iiis i!.:ps to
the Engliih fleet, favours our enemies by
[Total No. 151.]
putting obstacles in the way ot our expor
tation of grain.
After all these confulerations, your com
mittee of general defence has charged mg
to present to you tlie plan ot the following
decree.
DECREE.
"The National Convention, after Jiav
ing heard the report of their Ccfir.mittce :>(
General Defence, in the condu£t of the
F.nglilh Government,
"Conlidering that the king of England
has perlifted, especially tince the revolution
of the 10th of Augutt 1792. to give proots
of his being evilly disposed towards the
French nation, and ot his attachments tu
the coalition o crowned heads.
"That at the period aforefaid. he or
dered his ambahador at Paris to withdraw,
becatife he would not acknowledge the
provilional executive council, created by
the legislative assembly.
" That the Cabinet of St. James's had
ceased, lince the fame period, to corrtl
pond with the French anibail'ador at Lon
don, on pretext of the fuipenlion of the
heretofore kingot the French.
"That (ince the opening of the National
Convention, it has refuted to resume the
usual correspondence between the two
llates, and to acknowledge the powers of
this convention. *
"That it has refufed to acknowledge the
ambaliador of the French republic, altho"
provided with letters ot credit in its name.
"That it has endeavoured to impede
the different purchasers of corn, arras and
other commodities ordered in England,
either by French citizens or the agents ut
the republic.
"That it has caused to be flopped f.-veral
boats and (hips loaded with gram for France
contrary to the treaty ofi-,86, while ex,-
portation to other foreign countries via*
free.
"That in order flill more eifefiualiy to
obftrutf the commercial operation ot the
republic in England, it obtained an act of
parliament, prohibiting the circulation of
alliguats- i ■ , r
" That in violation us the 4th article
the treaty of 1789, it obtained a.2 other ai>,
in the month oi January ialt, which fiib
jefts all French citizens relidingin or com
ing into England, to lorms the moil inqui
sitorial, vexatious and dangerous.
" That at the fame- time, and contrary
to the tit article of the peace of r,B>, it
granted protection and pecuniary aid not
only to the emigrants, but even to the
rebels, who'have already fought againlt
France; that it has maintained with them
a daily correspondence, directed againjk
the French Revolution ; that it has ..'.[a
received the chief of the rebels ot the
French Welt-India Colonies.
" That in the fame spirit, without any
provocation, aftd wheii all the maritime
powers are at peace with England, ihe Ca
binet of St. James has ordered a conlnier.-
ablc naval armament, and an segmenta
tion of the land forces.
" That this armament was ordered at a
moment when the Britiiii 111111.iter was
bitterly persecuting thole who Supported
the principles ot the 1 rencn Revolution 1 1
England, and was employing all pohibU
means, both in Parliament and out ol it, to ,
cover the French repub.ic wH'l ignominy,
and to draw upon it the ejcecrat;on ot tiie
Hnglilli nation, and oi ail Europe.
"That the object of this armament, in
tended agaiolt France, was not even oi!-
guifed in";he Englilh Parliament.
That although the provh'ior.al exeei
tive council of France has employed every
measure for preserving peace am; iratermty
with the Engjilh nation, a" (.l has replied to
calumnies and violation ol ail treaties.only
by ren.onflrances founded on (be principles
of juflice, and cxprehed with the dignity (1
free men.the Englithniiniher has ptrfevcr
ed in his fyllem of malevolence and hofliii
ty, continued the armaments, and lent a
;'x)uadron to the Scheldt, to dii'i:rb fjie o
perations of the French in JJelgitini. _
•That, on the news of the cxeciiticSj of
Louis, lie carried his ptitrages to tin.'
French republic to such a length, at to or
der ihe Ainballadof of frar.ee to quit the
tSritilh territory within eight days.
"That the king ol England .has mani
fefted his attaclin.catsfo the eanfe of that
traitor, and his dtfign to support it by <:ii
ferent resolutions adopted at the meme: t
us hU death, ho:h by ran. aiatina -enei als
us his land army, and by applying to par
liament for a confdeia ble addition of land
and lea forces, and putting ih'spj of war in
lommifilon." Tin: hbfecret coalition with the ene
mies of France, and particularly with the
Emperor and Prussia, is confirmed by a
treaty concluded with the firft in the month
of January; that he has drawn into the
fame coalition the Stallholder of Holland ;
that tlmt prince, whose servile obsequious
nels to the orders of the courts of St. James
and Berlin, is but too well known, has in
the conrfe of tiie French revolution, and
notwithstanding the neutrality which he
profefled, treated with disdain the agents
of France, received the emigrants, harraf
fed the French patriots, counteracted their
operations, released, in oppolition to esta
blish usage, and notwithstanding the de
mand of the French minister, persons who
had been guilty of forging allignats ; that
in the mean time, with a view to concur
in the hoilile designs of the court of Lon
don, he gave orders for a naval armament,
named an Admiral, appointed Dutch ihips
to join the English fleet, opened a loan tn
defray the expence of the war, put a Hop
to exportation to France, while he fa
voured fending fuppliea of provision to the
Prnflianand Austrian magazines.
Co.ilidering, in fine, that all these cir
cumstances no longer leave to the French
Republic any hopes of obtaining, by means
of amicable negotiation, the redress of
their grievances, and that all the acts of
the British court, and of the ftadtholder of
the United Provinces, are acts of hostili
ty, equivalent to a declaration of war;
the National Convention decree as fol
lows:
Article I The national convention de
clares in the name of the French nation,
that, considering the multiplied acts of ho
llility and aggreilion of the above menti
oned nations,
THF. FRENCH NATION IS AT WAR
WITH THE KING OF ENGLAND
AND THE STADTHOLDER OF THE
UNITED PROVINCES.
11. The National Convention charges
the Provisional Executive Council to call
forth such forces as may appear to them
neceflary for repelling their aggrefiioi, and
maintaining the independence, the dignity
and the interests of the French Republic.
111. The National Convention authoris
es the Provisional Executive Council to
dispose of the naval forces of the Republic
iu such a manner as the interefls of the
{late may appear to them to require; and
it revokes all particular dispositions order
ed in this refp'c£t by preceding decrees.
Favre-F.glantine moved that an
addrcfs to the English people might be
drawn up to inform them of the real mo
tives which have brought on the war be
tween the two countries; and that the
Convention would decree that all English
and Dutch merchants and other indi
viduals who may be travelling in France
on business. shall have every prote£lion,
provided they conform to the laws of the
Republic. Both those propositions were
decreed.
Saturday, Feb. 2. The Convention de
termined to publish an addrcfs to the En
glifli and Dutch nations.
On the 13th of January the people of
Rome maflacred Bassevili.e, Secretary
to the legation from the French republic.
The hotife of a French Banker, and the a
cademy of the nation were burned on the
following day. The quarter inhabited by
Jews was attempted to be set on fire—they
were supposed to be friendly to the revo
lution.
The Convention is determined to exe
cute a funimary vengeance on the inhabi
tants of Rome on account of the above
transactions.
The marine minister is charged to ex
plore the forefts of Corsica and transport
all the wood he can find to Toulon :
8c0,c00,000 of aflignats are to be created.
LONDON, February it.
Hmtfe of Commons.
Mr. Dundas presented the following
meflage from his majesty.
" Th '.t his majesty thought proper to ac
quaint the house, that those who at present
exercised the power of government in
France, had, without any previous notice,
commenced direct hostilities against the
persons and properties of his rnajefty's sub
jects, in open violation of the laws of na
tions and the stipulations of treaties, and
had fii'.ce actually declared war, against
this kingdom and the United Provinces.
" That under these circumstances his
majesty had taken the neceflary steps to
maintain the honor of his crown and the
rights of his people, and therein relied on
the affection and support of Lis faithful
commons. His majelfy hoped, that with
the co-operation of his allies and the com
mon assistance of those powers and of every
oerfon who was at all interested in the sup
port of good government, laws and religi
on, to be enabled under the divine provi
dence, to relilt the extenlion of such prin
ciples as, enforced by the arms of the
yrench nation had already affected the ba
lance of power, and menaced the general
liappinel's and tranquility of Europe.
The confederation of this meflage was
ordered to be taken up to-morrow.
The secretary at war presented several
accounts relative to tiie land forces.
The Chancellor of the Exchequer, after
a molt eloquent and animated speech, mo
ved an address to his majesty which was
a faithful and affectionate echo of the mes
sage, and promised in the warmed lan
guage the ltrongelt afl'urances of support.
Mr. Fox opposed some parts of the ad
dress proposed, and offered one which lie
conceived was free from the objections to
the fii lt, and which he thought, could meet
the dil'approbation of no one member.
Tile amendment was loft, and the origi
nal motion carried without a division.
House of Lords, February 12.
Lord Grenville brought down a meflage
from his majesty, informing their iordfhips
that the government of France, in coufe
quence of a number of alledged offences,
had thought proper to declare war against
Great Britain.
The meflage was ordered for coafidera
tion to-morrow.
Lord Grenville, after a rrr-.-.ft eloquent
and convincing speech, moved an address
111 answer to the mefl'ag#from his niajelly,
the purport of which was, " 1110 ft humbly
to thank his majesty for his mod gracious
meflage, expreiiive of the approbation ot
the house of the measures he had taken to
support the dignity of his crown and the in
terelts of his subjects; to afl'ure his majesty
of the support of the house, and declare
their lordlhip'sfatisfaftion in being inform
ed of the good understanding fubfilting be
tween his majesty and his allies.
Earl Stanhope objected to the motion
proposed by Lord Grenville, and offered
an amendment to the following effect,
" That their lordlhips humbly beseech his
majesty 10 communicate the objett of the
war, and engaging then to take the mes
sage into their 1110 ft serious consideration,"
The amendment wa.s negatived and the
original motion carried.
Feb. 13. The French have declared war,
and actually commenced hollilities against
this country and Holland. They have ta
ken the Pearl, a Plymouth trader, and
two Dutch veflels laden with spirits; in
consequence. flocks have fallen this morn
ing above one per cent —An embargo is
laid upon all Britifti shipping in French
ports, by the French executive council,
nd extended to the veflels of Prussia, Hol
land and Spain. The number of Englifli
seamen detained in France by this unex
pected stroke, is rated as high as 15,000
men. The Pope has declared war against
:he French, and is preparing all his "force
:o join the general confederation.
Orders ifl'ued yesterday for flopping all
the French veflels in the Englifli ports.—
Their number, however, is trifling, and
there are more Englifli veflels seized at the
lingle port of Havre, than can be found
as French in all the Britilli harbors toge
ther. "
The French ambaflador at Rome (more
properly the secretary of the legation) has
been murdered by the populace, in conse
quence of an attempt to fix up the republi
can arms of France over the door of the
French consul in that city. Several houses
were burnt, the residence of French revo
lutionilts, and the quarter of the Jews was
attacked, who are supposed friendly to the
French revolution. The military of the
city, however, prevented 11 atters from
being carried to excess; but the French
were mostly obliged to fly, or conceal
themselves-
General Dumourier is arrived at Dun
kirk, to put himfelf at the head of the
French troops for an immediate invasion
of Holland.
Letters from Germany announce im
mense preparations for war. The differ
ent corporations of Vienna have offered
the Emperor funis without interest. They
work day and night in the arfenak o!
L ologne, in manufafturingcartouch-boxes,
which arc no sooner finiflied, than they are
expedited to the various armies. The
moit urgent orders are given for transport,
ng the baggage of the generals. 11 is certain
that the Lmprefs ot Russia has appropria
ted a fund towards maintaining the corps
of emigrants under the command of the
Prince de Conde.
The French troops, afTembled on the
coast. of Normandy and Picardy, amount
to 11 o,oco men ; but whether they arede
ligned for the defence of the ccalt, or to
attack Jersey and Guernsey we know not:
M. Maret, anew F.nvoy from the French
republic to the Englifli court, charged with
certain preliminaries of pacification, took
his departure yesterday afternoon for Pa
ris, in consequence of a note from the Se
cretary ot State, intimating it as his ma
jesty's pleasure, under the alien ast, that
he and his suit fl.ould depart the kingdom
in three days.
efterday a second order was sent to
all the ports, laying an embargo on all ves
sels clearing, or cleared out, for places
now occupied by the French of course
this extends the embargo to all the ports
in Flanders.
The Seamen at Newcaflle upon Tvne,
Shields, and along the eaflern coalt, have
entered into resolutions to refill any at
tempt to press them, and they have invited
all the faiiors in the kingdom to join them.
"1 hey have advertised ior this purpose in
the Newcastle Chronicle of the second of
this month. We hope government will
take some decisive measure to flop the pro
g Ti of this very alarming combination,
which threatens the cxiftence ol'the Roy
al Navy.
Lord Auckland has promised the Dutch
the assistance of" 12,000 EnglilTi within 8
days after the requisition. Dumourier ar
rived at Antwerp on the 2d of February.
The Poles at Warsaw are resolved to op
pose the entrance of the Prufiians by open
force.
It is reported that the PrulHans on the
24th of January invested the city of Thorn,
and that the gates were forced. It is re
ported that Choczim will be offered to the
Turks on condition that they reject the
new French mini Iter.
The tumults in Ireland continue, and
such is tlie temper of the people that the)
will bearnooppofition. Numerous bodies
have formed, with a determined intention
to procure an ample magna charta of
rights or to throw off all allegiance to
British government. The military are e
very where ordered out, and every thing
wears the appearance of matters coming
to extremity. The Senate has voted an
address to the Lord Lieutenant, offering to
support government with their lives and
fortunes.
The United Iriflmien have entered into
very lfrong resolutions, which, for compo
lition and manlincfs, are not less diftin
guilhed than ihofe that have repeatedly
proceeded before from this great and re
fpeftable body. The ferment that prevails
is beyond belief. There is nothing spoken
of but a National Convention ; but what
ever the people may imagine, we trufl that
government is really lincere, and that it
does not intend to trifle with the country
on those great and important quetiioiis,
on which the exiflence of their freedom
and liberties depends.
The people have a majority without
doors, and they have more than once had
a majority within, w here the salvation of
the country depended 011 the independent
condii£t of the house. That parliament
will unite in preventing the impending
dangers we again hope, and that thenecef
lity of a National Convention will be ob
viated by the manly and popular conduct
of the representatives of the people, in
granting the people their reafouable de
iires.
M. Pelletier, our of the members of the
French National Convention, in conse
quence of voting for the death of Louis
the XVith, was followed home and aflafii
nated by a royalilt named Paris. A de
cree of accusation being issued, the afl". fiin
was discovered, who fliot himfelf dead at
the moment of' being seized. Paris had
been one of the king's guards; in his
pocket was found a paper, acknowledging
himfelf the murderer of Pelletier; "and
that it had been his intention to serve
Egalite (Duke of Orleans) in the f-me
manner when opportunity should oiFer,
for having voted for the deaUl of his cou
sin german, the king. Pelletier's funeral
has been defrayed at the expence of the
nation, and his body depolited in the Pan
theon.
Two important decrees are juflpafled by
the National Convention.
Py tiie firft, every person in F ranee was
ordered to give an exact account of his
property, on oath, to coinmifiioners ap
pointed for that purpose, and to contri
bute in a ifatcd proportion to the necefiities
of the republic. For the amount they are
to be looked 011 as creditors of the state,
and to have securities on the national pro
perty.
The second orders peremptorily, that
every man in the realm of France," capa
ble of bearing arms (hall hold himfelf in
readiness to serve when called 1 pen.
On the 28th of Jan. the eldelt brother
of the king of France was named Regent
us France by the Empress of Ruflia. The
fame ceremony was to be performed next
day in the name of the Emperor of Ger
many, and the king of Pruflia. The emi
grant French princes are now in the circle
of Westphalia, and arc faon, with the Re
gent, to ope n a council of State.
Berlin, January 26. The crisis of the fate
of Poland is at i;.ft come. The Pruflian
troops are at least on their march to enter
the Polifn provinces They are divided
into three different corps. The firft is
commanded by general Hentb'e ; the se
cond by general Mollendorf, coming from
New Mark, and the third from Siltfia, bv
general. Dnlwig.
These three corps are to eater Poland
at one and-{lk- fame time, and form a cor
don in the provinces where they are to be
quartered.
The cityof Dantzick i? to be excepted
from that chain, and will preserve her in
dependence.
War/aw, Jan. 19- On the 16th inff. M.
Buchaltz, the Prnlliaii miniffer presented
to the great chancellor the declaration of
the king of Pruflia announcing the march
of the troops into Great Poland. Jt has
made great imprtfiion 011 the king and 011
both parties.
The rumour of war between Rufiia and
the Porte gains daily more Strength ;nd the
Xu Hi ails are making great preparations in
Crimea. General Kachowiski w ill go to
iheDneiftei and general Eugclftroem who
is to command the Ruffian troops in Po
land lias arrived at Grodno, where the
Ruffian ainbafihior is also arrived,
Th? f )'low:ii; 's t'u Protect of lord > L-»nr*
down, Lauderdale, jid D.rfiy, of the
Jiritifli House of Peers, a;.iinft voting an
address to the km«, f-' ar with France.
DISSLN II En r,
i. Because tlie inimedijte tendency of
tile address is to plunge the nation into
War
2. Because we consider wa as sn evi] of
filch magnitude, that nothing but absolute
necessity can juitify it.
3. Because we have not heard of any
danger to this country which re . rs war
necefiary.
4. Because the o' fervance of go: ' faith
towards oui allies, does not requii' ijs to
engage in war, his majesty's minister hiv
ing admitted that Holland has not den vi
ed our interference, and it being 110 c. . -us
that Pruiiia has been the aggreilbr a< , ill
i'rance.
S- Becanfe, thejigh we feel the ntmoft
horror at the atrocious ait of cruelty and
injuflice, mention, d in the address. we
think that no injustice, however flagrant,
committed in a foreign ftatc, and having
no relation to other countries, is t i a ft
ground for making war.
6. Because we are more likc-ly to obtain
the objects, whether of policy or principle;
in the way of negociation, than war; the
averlion of France to break with this coun
try, whiali has lately flood the tel! of re
peated provocations, putting it in our pow
er at th: moment to give peace to all Eu
rope, whereas by entering into the war,
we ftiall put all at Hake; we lhall be to join
a league, whoft duration cannot be depend
ed on ; our marine will be to act a'gaiuft
armed veflels only, and that cfthe French,
agai.nlt a trade which covers every quarter
of the globe.
7. Because, in no view of policy can we
discover any advantage to be obtained to
this country by war, however fuccefsful.
1 he expei ience of our two last wars has
taught us the little value of foreign acqui
(ion ; for having loft America in the last of
them, we i.ow enjoy a more beneficial in
teicourle with it as an independent state,
than ue did when it formed a part of the
Britilh dominion's.
8. Because wethinkit the intereftof this
country to preserve peace with all man
kind, but more especially with France.
9. Because, even it it lhould be thought
consonant to the honor and magnanimity of
tais nation to seek the depression of France,
ihat end wi!! be moii <-j!e£Uially promoted,
by leaving them to their own internal dif
lentions, instead of uniting them by a hos
tile aggression iji a eominon caufc, end thus
calling forth all their energy.
10. Lccatife, as every war mufi be con
cluded . y a peace, negoeiatiohs muftat foine
time takeplace, and w emuft ultimately de
pend upon the good faitli of France, nnlefs
we proceed upon a principle of partitions,
eonqueU, or extermination.
11. Because the ineafures now in view
will utterly derange our system of finance,
our war refourtcs having been applied to
wards defraying the expence of our peace
fftablifhinent, in consequence of which
or.r floating unfunded debt, which amount
ed at the commencement of the American
war only to 3,100,0001. has accumulated
to above ten millions, exclusive of India
bonds! belides which, the additional eft'eft
ihat the iate enormous extcntions of pri
vate banking, to an amount unknown, may
have upon our public credit, in cafe of war,
is what no one can forefee.
12. Because we dread the increase of
thole public burthens which already bear
so hard on the poorer part of the commu
nity, and because we are convinced that
nothing can endanger our happy conflitu
tion, biit-an interruption of thole blellings
which it now aiiorcls 11s, by the calami;i;is
of an unnecefiary war.
L Avsdown.
Lauderdale.
Dissentient.
For tile ift, 2d, and 3d reasons, and for
that part ol the 4th, beginning with the
word (interference), and for the whole of
the sth reason.
DERBY.
PHILADELPHIA.
April 10.
We have accounts from Gibraltarby the
Frederic kfhurgh Packet, and from M -laga,
which Vrflel touched there, that the Alge
rines had declared war against Denmark,
Sweden and Holland, in consequence. of
not having received hifficient prejehis from
those pnw ers.
European accounts mention some illfuc
eefs attending the French fleet, in landing
ti cups on the i!!and of Sardinia : that 1500
were killed and taken prisoners, and that
the fleet, confiding of 44 fail, wasfoon af
ter thfperfod, and much damaged in a vi
olent pale cf wind.
1 r.e 1 rederic !< {burgh packet, from Ma
laga, repeats the account of ihe lato
queen of France having been executed,
after a formal trial, on or about the 10th
of February.
In the British house of commons, on the
Ift F< !'.ru.urv, a warm debate took place;
I.: which V . F«C reprobated in the feve-reft terms, the confederacy against France
0:i the 22(1 January the French conven
tion decreed, that 500,000 livres fliould be
immediately issued to the pensioners of
Louis, and that permanent proviiion fliould
be made for their support —Roland, mini-
Iter of the home department, had rriigned.
Mr. Fox hasaddrefled to hisconftituents
a letter, in vindication of his motion in the
ho life of commo is, that an ambassador
ihonld be sent to treat with the executive
council of France, in which he coniiders
the obje&ion to that measure.
Sundry letters received by the packet
ftate, that on the lecond of February
France declared-war against Creat Britain
and Holland ; that sundry vessels had been
captured, and carried into Calais and other
ports of France ; that many vessels laden
with grain or flour (British) were prohibi
ted from failing, without security that
their cargoes Qiould not be landed in
France ; but that American veflels were at
liberty to proceed with their cargoes whi
thersoever they plealed.
Prosecutions for seditious libels are in
stituted in almost every part of Great Bri
tain—press warrants had been ifl'ued, and
dispatched to the several ports.
The Dutch, to prevent the French armies
from making an irruption, have laid part
of their country under water, and the
dikes are ordered to be cut at the fir!t lig
nal to inundate other parts, to hinder, i
pollible, the French from penetrating tc
Amsterdam.
In the accounts by the February packet,
not a word is said of the execution of the
queen of France. This, however, doe
not amount to a contradiction of the ac
counts previouily brought.
A Brig from Cape-Francois arrived here
on Sunday. In virtue of the declaratior
of war, several Britilh and Dutch vefl'el;
jhat lay in that psrt, were seized.
European papers mention that the gram 1
Duke of Tufcany iias received with nianj
marks of esteem, M. de la Flotte, as reli
dent at his court from the French republic
In the grand Duke's note 011 this fubjet"
he promises the moll perfeit neutrality
and a desire to maintain a friendly under
standing with the French nation.'
When the last accounts left the continent
of Europe, the Duke of Brunfwick lay ill
of a bilious fever. His brother. Prince
Frederick was to succeed him in com
mand. The plan of the French general'
appeared to be an instant incuifion into
Holland. " General Miranda was to ad
vance tho' Gueldres, and general Duinou
lier thro Gorkumjthe two armies to unite
in the province of Utrecht, where the peo
ple ate ripe for a revolt from the Stadt
holder."
We hear from Providence, Rhode 1(1
anil, that on the day of ihe confirmation
of what they called the murder of I.oui
the XVlth, the inhabitants of that towr
fell into an immediate date,of deje£ti'on,am;
in the evening et all the bells of the
charches a tolling. It is added, that man>
of them have put on mourning, as a token
ct the lincerity of their grief for the fall ol
the " Lord's anointed."
" This royal death provok'd a thoufanc
fight,
" While tears, unafli'd for tumb lee
from their eyes."
On the 11 th of January a comet wasfirfl
seen inthe-Conftellation Cepheus. It pal
fed rapidly from thence, through Cuffiopea
Andromeda, the Triangle and Aries, into
the Whale, where it disappeared. On the
nth and nth. it wai superior in brightnef
to a liar of the 2d magnitude, when seer
by the nakel eve; but through the tele
scope, it appeared an ill defined spot o!
faint light, occupying 10 or 12 minutes,
and brigliteft in the centre; though neithei
nucleus nor tail could be perceived. Ii
grew fainter from the firft evening it wa
discovered ; and the last time it was seen.
\va« on the Bih ofFebruary. January 1 7th
it was very near the firit liar of Aries, anc
on the 2 ill. a little below Flamfteed':
84th of she Whale, not far ftom whence
it was 101 l fight of. It does not seem to be
any one of about 60, whose orbits have
been heretofore determined by aOrono
uiers.
A bill has parted the Senate of Mafia -
hufetts, allowing a theatre to be erectec
in Bolton, under certain limitations anc
reftri&ions.
, j Isaac Coles is elcfled representative ir
Congress for Halifax diftrUt, Virginia
and not Matthew *'iay, as mentioned ir
our paper of last Wednesday.
A project of a decree appears in the Pa
ris papers for facilitating the payment ol
the debt due to France from the Unitee
of America, which is, to make pay
ment in the various productions of the se
veral States, to be transported to France ir
American bottoms, and delivered at the
prime cost in the said States. It is alfc
projected in the decree,that no production
of the United States fliall be othervvife
than direitly imported into France in Ame
rican or I rench bottoms, under penalty of
conlifcation of veiled and cargo.
Upon the new eftablifiiincnt of the
French armies, the whole is to coi.lift of
196 battallions of the line, incorporated
with 392 battalions of volunteers, which
will form a 111 ass ofinfantry equal 10462,736
men ; to which when are added the artil
lery, light troops, light horse &c. the whole
will amount to 591,816 men.
Intelligence has been received here by a
late arrival from Liverpool (whi:h brings
accounts to the 21 It of February) that the
French army had entered Holland, and
defeated the Dutch and Prussian troops.
Mr. Paine, in the Natioual Convention,
was againlt the execution of Louis. In
iiis opinion given on this occalion, he pro
posed that the king and his family Ihould
bs banijhed to the United States of America.
A " Ladyin a Bcfton paper,has publilhed
her determination to wear for mourning
for Louis tlie 16th, for the period of one
month, a black roje, near the left bre.iit.
Not content with this tribute herfelf, Hie
entreats her dearly beloved livlers through
out the United States to follow her exam
ple !
The Britifli court went into mourning
for the king of France on the 2>th of Ja
mary, and :hrew it off 011 the 7th of Fe
bruary. By this we may fee that despots
and ariflocrats occasionally mourn for cacli
other, tho' the murder of a thousand men
by the connivance of a crowned ruHiart
produces not even a hgh of compaflion.—
Follies of this kind might be forgiven to the
prejudices of the European, but that the
filly American, jutt emancipated sri 111 a
tyrant, Ihould join in the whine of condo
lence, is indeed lamentably i.bfurd anc
wholly " out of order. 1 '
Extrad of a letter from St. Mary 1 s Georgic
March 33.
" This morning an express arrived Iron
Traders Hill, which is about 70 miles lroir
this place, that a tribe of Indians fuppoW 1
to be of the Chorneas nation—in mimbei
bout 30, entered the store of Cape. Ko
bert eagrove, the 1 ith inlt. and plunder
ed it of goods to the amount of 1 jool. "el
ling. 1 tiey put to death Mr. John Flem
ing, who kept the (lore, & a jVIr Moffet l > >'
the molt brutal manner, cutting and mang
ling their bodies, and then scalping the"'-
One Ann Gray who lived at the fiore wa:
severely beat and bruised, bound and thei
.hrown out, supposed intended to be m::d
iprifoner ot, but getting loose while thi
lavages were murdering the men she cfca
ped, leaving her two children behind wht
were adecp in a room adjoining the (lore
where tlicy remained without the favagc:
Lhfcovering them ; which the mothci
found at her return. Fuur men thai
were at the store with the unfortunate
Fleming and Moffett, made their escape.
The India . remained but about twe
hours, ,nd 1? 1 went over to Florida,
with tiie r hoifes which they brought witl
:hem. v'hen the news reach ?d th:« place,
which was two days after, they multerec
is many as they could and went in purfu'n
of them, but fouiid nothing of them 1
the murderers having 48 hours start o!
them.
The next day, viz. the 12th, anothei
jarty proceeded to rob another (lore, be
longing to Mr. Cafk.im at Settil ; the;
came within a few miles of it, and meetinj
a waggen loaded with goods, as th'
people were moving from the back coun
try. they fired 011 them, and ftopp'd t
waggon, the people attending it madetheii
?fcape as well as they could : One man ir
attempting to get oft with his daughter, t
:hild about 7 years old, which he had it
lis arms, they fired at them, wounded bot!
:he father let his child fall, ran a fev
rods and then fell ; they were taken up ;
few days after and buryed :• they wen
"calp'd. Nothing more was heart! con
:erning the affair when I left the place
which was the 2 1 ft- infta.nt."
\_From a correJboiident.~\
By several hints in late Boston papers, i
appears that a branch of the monarchica
lad aristocratic fattion in that tov n, exert
;d themselves to excite the feelings of th<
ignorant "in favor of a perjured king.—
The beheading of Benedict Arnold, thai
noted and known traitor, would without
rloubt touch the feelings of a few paper
made nabobs amongst us, who would fel
their country's liberties for a funding JyJ
tern.''''
" It was very pleafmg (fays the Boston ga
zette) to fee,at the moment that the mourn
ers of Louis entered liberty square, the
true spirit of liberty in a great number ot
citizens who broke down the barren head
and jaws of despotism, with the gilded
horns of monarchy from a pole lately erec
ted, and tumbled them, together with the
trunk of Louis, into thedock of oblivion,
there to remain forever ; and then deanfed
the air, that had been contaminated by the
passing of the dead trunk of monarchy,
with a liberty discharge of cannon acd three
equal huzzas !"
We hear from Boston that the choice
for federal r«*prefentative from that itate
lies between Bejamin Austin and Sam
uel Holten Esquires.
There seems io be (fays a corrfcfpondent)
a want of common national pohtenefs in
tins country towards France. As they inter
bred not in our sentencing criminals du
ring the war, what pollible light have we
to pafa a jucgment upon similar tranfacVions
in France ?
[From a Correspondent.]
Citizen GENET, who has been chosen
by the National Convention, Ambafladoi
from the French Republic to the United
States of America, is momently expected
to arrive here. This citizen is equally
distinguished for his abilities and his pat
riotism. In France, his opinion has beei:
consulted by the firft flatefmen, in the moll
difficult affairs. It is expeftedthat he will
be received with a salute of cannon, anc
by the companies of light infantry, undei
arms, as the firft mark of our attention or
his arrival; which will at once demon
ftratc the patriotic character of our fellow
citizens, and the interest they take in the
noblest of all causes, the success of oui
French allies, who are giving up all thai
is near and dear to them for the genera!
interelh of human nature. And may we
not hope that the true republicans of this
country w ill hoist the three coloured flag,
the emblem of patriotism ; and to com
plete the spectacle, that our fair Pennfyl
tanians will decorate their elegant per
fbns, and adorn their hair with patriotic
ribbands 011 the occasion ?
A Pennfylranian•
V Many persons. who \\ ifli ill to the fitc
ceC of l ie French arms in Holland, seem
to imagine that all the Dutch have to do,
is to lay their country under water to pre
vent the ir.road of Dumourier, "byway
of Utrecht." But to effe£> this, the w hole
country of lower Holland ir.uft be laid
eleven feet tinder water, which if done, it
is doubtful whether they might ever be
able to recover the land, so as to make it
pay the expences of the labour."
Letters f.om England give a deplorable
pifftire of the state of freedom of opinion
in tn tcouniry. The Portuguese inc|uili
lion does not exceed it. Every thing is a
libei, and a man can scarcely venture to
put pen to paper, 011 any political fubjett,
without the rifle of, at lcalt, Handing in
:he pillory, and being pelted to death by
:ne creatnrc,, of the court, of the king, and
lis royalJons.
Lord Howe is appointed to the command
jf the Englilh channel fleet, and lord Hood
a command their fleet in the Mediterra
nean. The duke of Clarence is created
in admiral, to serve under lord Howe.—
rile duke of York is to command the Ha
loveri in forccs, to ait in the combination
igainft France, &c.
This week the fliip George Barclay,
3apt. Collett, and several other veflels
lave arrived from England, after difagree
ible pafl'ages of eight weeks, and upwards.
The following sentiments by M. Con
lorcet, afford a hint of what might have
"aved the life of Louis the 16th : " It is
>y no means necessary to observe, that if
my one contributed voluntarily, and by a
yltem steadily pursued, of perfidious poli
ces, to ;he death of Louis, it is (him the
Icing of England) who now appears to be
wail his lol's. For, he was able to have
"evered Prulfia from Austria ; to hace de
manded the difpirfion of the emigrants,
and theabftainment from war. He could
by arecognition of the French republic,
at the end of September, have procnrec
her a fafe and honorable peace, and lefl
herat liberty to listen only to her clemency .
He has not done all th.s, and therefore
could not but look upon the fall and death
of Louis as an even; ui'tful to his fecrei
designs. Now, what are those dtfigus
It is not difficult to divine their. Ht
wifhetl no; t ie confolidarion of conftitnti
oast royalty in France, because he dread
ed in a powerful nation, so near him, the
example of a king having lejs ptwer thai,
him/elf"
Marrif.d, on Sunday evening last, b)
the Rev. Mr. Smith, Mr. Archibald
Woodruff, Printer, of Elizabeth-Tow n
(New-Jersey) to the amiable Mils CA
thArine Summers, of this city.
To those Concerned in MILLS in tit
United Statu.
OLIVER EVANS, late of the state ol
Delaware, informs the public, that he
has removed to Philadelphia, No. 437,
North Second-street, where he will thank
fully receive any applications for the tifcof
his Patent Improvements on Mills, and the
art of manufacturing flour. He will fur
nifli those who are not fnfliciently acquain
ted with the principles of his improve
ments, with drawings and descriptions,
that will enablj them to erect ail the
different machines r.ecefiary to perforin the
operations of cleaning, grinding,
and ofbonltinp over the middlings or coarse
meal, and grinding it over with the grain,
Io as ro finifh all together, thereby milking
the grcan-ft quantity offupei nns flour, thAi
the grain wiil produce atone operation- —
He has been at much expense in colle i'.ir
the different and molt approved conflrnc
tions of mills anil plans for boultiug. and
the quality, size, and manner of the mill
f'cones, suitable to the power of the mill,
and quality of the arain : and will afHit in
planning rnles from the foundation, hnd
make drawings thereof, if required. He
has for sale, boultin.g cloths and mill-stones
of the firft quality, at the lowelt prices,
which he will war rant. If theftones prove
not good, they will be received -gain. and
the colt of carriage paid Those who ap
ply for either (tones or cloths, wi.l pleale
to mention the power of the mill, size of
the bonlting-reels, qualify of the grain,
and oil what bulinefs it is to run. Orders
by post, or otherwise, u ill be as punctually
attended to as if the parties were present.
April io. 31 law
Just come to Hand, from Pittlburph, and to
be Solduy John M'Culloch, No. i,
North T/iird-Jlreet.
MODERN CHIVALRY:
CONTAINING THE
Adventures of Capt. J. FARRAGO,
and
TeAgue O'Regan, his servant,
VOL. 111.
By H. H. BRACKENRIDGE, Esq.
J. M'CULLOCH Has also for Sale,
Spectator, 8 vols.
Goldlmith's History of animated Nature, 8
vols.
Blackftonc's Commentaries, 4 vols.
Smith's Wealth of Nations, 3 vols.
Moore's Travels, 2 vols.
Brydone's Tour, through Sicily and Malta.
Montague's Travels.
Rights of Women, by Mary Woolftonci act.
Seneca's Morals.
Junius' Letters.
Knox's Eflays, 2 vols.
Peter Pindar, 2 vo's.
Cullen's Practice of Phytic, 3 vols.
Humphries' Works.
Zimnvrman on Solitude
Pieceptor, 2 vols.
Evelina, 2 voli.
Ertkine's foleft Sermons.
Anderfon's Sermons on Faith.
The Child's In.trudt >r j being a Spelling Book
on a new Pian : By a Teacher in Philadelphia,
The Mocking-Bird : a Collection of a
number of which are set to Music.
The American Letter Wiiier.
Fairy Tales, (jfc,
IN THE PRESS,
A Collection of Church Mulic and Anthems ;
to contain 200 O&avo Pages.
I Have claims to about two hundred and
fifty thousand acres of LAND in the Hate of
Kentuckey, in different parts of that country,
some of which 1 know to be equal to any ; all
of which J am inclined to dispose of, either by
T.tire sale, or by admitting one, or two partners,
to whom the agency on the whole will be com
mitted. »
One fourth of the contra# will be required in
hand, either in cafli, merchandize, or such aflcts
as may be converted to active ule, the residue
may be apportioned in convenient irllalments.
The pure hafers to give fecunty, on the land,
or otherways,as suits them.
Knowing that there is a prejudice against the
titles of land in that slate, which is more general
than just, J am willing to stipulate in the con
tract, that a discount, or d>:du£ion, fl*«ll be
made, where any land may be loft, by reason of a
defective title.
Any person inclining to such a purchase, is re
quested to write to me by pott, jn answer to
whom, more particular information will be given.
17 EN R Y BANKS.
Richmond March 2c, 1793. 2a w tf.
WAS LOST,
YES'I ERDAY on the Y ik road, betwixt
Philadelphia and the Crooked Biilet, a
BOND, Irom Jfaac Lewis, to the fubfciiber, for
the lum of two hundred pounds, payable the fiift
ttf April 1793- —Any perfen finding the (oir.e,
and delivering it to John Moore, Esq. fcnkiji
town, William M'Calh, Abingdon, Thomas
H >uj.h, at the Crocked-Billet, or to the fubfori
6er, (hall be handsomely regarded.
JOSEPH HART.
April 2 x 79- 3 r 2aw
|T O BE SOL D,
By JOSEPH CRUKSHANK, in Mar
ketJlrett,
LETTERS
Addrefled to the Yeomanry o\ the United
states, {hewing the neceflity 0/confining the pub
ic revenue to a fixed proportion of the net pro
luce of the land, and the bad policy and injuttice
>f everv species of indirect taxation and comnjei*
ia I regulations .
BY A FARMER.
Also, may be haci at the fame place, a few co.
.ies of the FARMER'S LETTERS, containing
J&rvations on the. dangerous fchnne of Governor
)uer and Mr, Secretary Hamiltoh to eltablilh
National Manula&ures.
Feb. 22. 3t. law
A FEW COFJrSOF THE
T R ANSACTIO N S
Of the Society i 'ftituled in the State of
New-York, for the promotion cf
AGRICULTURE. ARTS, ar.d MATW
EACTURF.S,
May be hid at this Office.
[Price half a dollAk.j
Tan. r .Mr. BRISSOT's Speech in the National
Ajjehibly of France, on ~ ugujl 8, 1792.
in fupp'irt of the accusation of M. dc la
Fayette.
(Continued from our -lafl and concluded.)
DID Washington, whose example he
pretends to have continually in his
eye, amuf- himfelf in petitioning against
societies, and writing in the Gazettes }
No, gentlemen, he often fought, fometimee
triumphed, and always wrote to tht Con
gress with refpeft. I observe, gentlemen,
that no one has dared to re produce the
obje&ion made by Mr. Ramond, that Mr,
La Fayette had a right to present you a
petition in the name of his army, since yon
had received the like from the battalion oi
Paiis. But wl at comparison is there be
tween a pet i ion 1 xprefFed is the molt im
perious terms, attributed to an army aSu
ally in the field and preiei ted by it« gene
vat,-and addreflcs, almost the whole o
which contained notMng more than expref
fions of relpedt and duty, and prelentec
by citizens armed and not armed afferoblec
together without diftinftion. These pe
titions were not the requests of an armee
foice, but rather of a /eflion in which was
concluded the battalion of the feftion
In this cafe, gentlemen, there was no dan
gtr ; the principle of the conllitution wai
not violated : for what is the principle ?—
To hinder the aimed force from erecting
itfelf intoa dijhnfl power, dangerous to tlx
civil authorities. Now, in the addrefle;
ofafe&ion where its battallion is included,
the armed force is not diltin&; the citi
zens of the bittallion appear among tht
reft, and the wh le present their common
request. But, in the petition of Mr. L?
Fayette, the dangerous prine : ple whicl
the conflitution has been so careful to a
void, (hows itfelt in all its force. The fc
much dreaded influence of the army on the
del,berat ions of the lrgiflativc body anc
the adtions of the executive power, Mr
La Fayette has attempted to exercise ir
its fullcft extent.
In short, gentlemen this is th<
third cr me I alledge against Mr. La Fa
yette) has he not ordered you in the nami
of his army, to annihilate the popular soci
eties, ra'her than request their annihilati
on ? Has he not fought to intimidate you
to oblige you to enait laws of his own die
tating ; by hinting that he wa surround
ed with that hono able rampart the army
and by telling you that this irmy demand
ed both the diflbluii n of the popular so
cieties and the punilhment of the leaden
in the affair of the 20th of June? Nay
does he not yet feck to intimidate you
by publishing a coileftion of the adrirefle
which he himfelf by the means of his offi
cers, firft solicited from the troops ? Is i
not clear then that General La Fayetii
wilhed to prove o the National Aft"-' ll
bly that he had an army intirely devotee
to his will,—an army ready to march a
gainst it at the firft signal, which is tlx
lame thing, against the factious, who, a
he pretends, governed the AlTembly.
Read again these pafiages of the addref
fes, gentlemen : some of them declare
"we are all devoted to the general anc
particularly to the supreme chief of thi
army." Others fay "the general ma)
lead us with confidence againlt the enemiei
of the state oreign and domestic." Then
is not a v oid here of the requisitions o:
the civil power. As if they had said
onr greatell enemies are not in the Ironi
of us, perhaps at this moment the monster
are at our backs I let us away ! let us pre
vent the blow !—The Nationa' . 1 flembl>
has not ordered us ; but the general is
fufficient. " There," said his prompter!
to him, "the confidence you have inspired
in the army is yourfecurity that it will bt
directed by you alone." - It was thus, gen
tlemen, that the legions would
have only Cxfar for cl.ief. In a word,
their cry was : Let us exterminate the fac
tious ; order, general, and we will exe
cute
And who are these madmen ready tc
march at the signal of the general, against
they know not whom ? Let us not ca
lumniate the army, gentlemen : it is nci
the army that has repeated these seditious
and rebellious clamours; tl ey belong tc
a few squadrons, a few companies, whose
tinderftandings have been milled by en.
venomed reports or by seducing promises ;
but what can he said in defence of die ge
neral, who, in place of blaming the corps
that had manifested such culpable senti
ments, encouraged them by the vile ft
means, afterwaids published them' and
propagated them through all our armies ?
Ought we not to conclude them thns,that,
in 'he firfl place, he wished to prove to the
National AfTembly, that he had an army
entirely at hisdifp. sal; and in the second,
that his aim was to dragoon them into a
compliance with his demands ? He evi
dently falls then under the 4th article of
the penal code, which I have already cited.
It is evident, gentlemen, even from the
text of those addrefles, that they were dic
tated by officers devoted to Mr. La Fay
ette, and under pretexts the inoft notori
ouflv falfe. It may not be amiss to re
mark here, that the affair of the 20th of
June has not been the pretext of all of
them ; for in reading them ovei we observe
that many of them were drawn up ante
rior to that event. They mention are
fignation of Mr. La Fayette ; his bring
persecuted ; a ruling faction that mifleade
the National AfTembly. In a word, every
little art has been employed to render po
pular a mail who is incapable of acquiring
popularity by his aflions or talents. Here
we fee a repetition of those comedies so
often played at Paris by the aids de-camp
of the general to procure him a refpeit
little short of adoration, and to erect his
reputation into a rampart against the pat
riots and the National AfTembly.
Yes, gentlemen, every thing proves that,
for a long time, Mr. La Fayette, discon
tented, because his partisans did not total
ly direst the National AfTembly, or rather,
because he himfelf could not direst it by
thei' means, has endeavoured to debase it ;
and this is the fourth crime I lay to his
ch rge. Wi'hout repeating the numerous
proofs To well unfol led b' Mr. Lafourfe,
without recalling here all the difcouries,
held openly in the camp of Mr. La Fay
ette by (lis general officers, (discourses that
tended not only to degrade, but even to
offolve the National AfTembly) is it not
evident from his own letters, that he en
deavoured to debase the legislative body in
the opinion of his army ? Did he not fay
in these letters, which he caused to be diT
tributed with a criminal profufion, that
the National AfTembly wa3 under the in
fiuence of a faction that wished to overturn
the conflitution ; that there exilled in fact
neither liberty nor conflitution, because
the Jacobin focietie* existed ? Was not
this iulinuating that the A fTembly was no
thing more than the tool of the jacobins ?
Is not this the sense of all the addrefTes,
in which, under the name of factious, are
equally deiigned the patriots and the Na
tional AfTembly? Is it not the sense of
thi fe insidious recommendations contained
in the Ie ter of the 16th of June ? Does
not he accuse you of having encroacl.ed on
the authority of th king, in recommend
ing to you to rrfpeft his independence ?
of having violated the religious liberty by
your decree against the non conforming
priests ? "f having been unconstitutional
and unjust, in recommending to you to be
constitutional andjuft ? If there were any
doubt of the meaning of these reproaches,
w< find it without disguise in his letter of
the 22J June. There the general declares
without the lead reserve, tha- the National
AfTembly is misled by a f diion, and that
it has deviated from the line of the conili
tulion What a galling reproach to yr»u,
who have ever religiously adhered to the
conllitution ! to you, who alone have
maintained it, snd who will still maintain
it, though your enemies co- tinue to draw
from thence the rrows with which they
pierce you! could any accufa, ion possibly have
borne a mo e formidable afpett, inculcated
a more dangerous principle; since its evi
dent tendency was to excite the depart
ments and the arr.iits to despise you as
perjurers, and to oppose a legal refiflance
to your dec rees ? Thus, gentlemen, from
this accusation resulted at once, contemp
for the legislative body, and revolt against
it. It was then a crime, since it might
have produced a civil war ; and this, ger.
tlemcn is the fifth crime I impute to Mr.
La Fay 1 tte. He has endeavoured to pliingt
he nation into a civil war, in exciting »hi
people and the armies against the club:
and • hose whom he calls the factious, by
railing a general clamour against them bv
spreading hi:, inflammatory letters and ad
drefles, and by fuppoliwg the National As-
Tembly devoted to a fadtion. Was it not
to llir up a civil war that he fir It caltimni
atcd theParifians to his army, in imputing
to them crimes absolutely falfe ; and th 11
Ins army to the Parisians, in imputing to
it the sanguinary request of his general of
ficers ? Was not this double calumny well
:alculated to biow the embers of diflentijn
nto a flame ?
Besides, has not Mr. La Fayette clearly
d'fcorered his intention to excite a civil
lv ar in this sentence of his firft order ? "It
ls fufficient for the present, to fatisfy the
National Aflembly, the king and other
conllituted authorities, of the conttitution
al lentiments of the troops." That iste
fay, it is fufficic nt for the present to draw
up petitions and write letters ; but if they
be rejected we will have recourse to more
efficacious means.
Is not this sense confirmed by the pas
fge of his letter of the 16th of June, where
he boafls of ihe part he had in the dectara
tion of tights ? as if he were the invenftjr of
them j as if their principks were not
known long before he ever thought of
them ! He tells you, (and he digrefles
from his fubjedt too, on purpofc to tell it
you) that he was the firlt who declared
reftjlanee againfl opprejfton to be the molt
sacred of duties. This was plainly giving
you to underltand, that the moment of re
finance was not far off.
But, indeed, it is not the fault of Mr.
La Fayette that a civil war has not before
now drenchcd the empire in blood : at lead
if we judge from the famous declaration of
Marshal Luckner. Six of your members
heard this declaration and have attested it -
The triple negat on that has been given
to it ought to allonifh nobody. Interest
extorted the two firft, and complaisance
the turd. It iseafy to perceive here an
other hand than that of the Marshal, whose
aversion to the controversy is so well
known, and who has h mfelf dec'ared to
yout Extraordinary Commission, that he
did not trouble himfelf with writing, that
he knew how to figut only.
As the letter of Mr. La Fayette, where
he makes, according to cultom, a faftidi
ous display of principles upon wlii h he
was not queltioned ; where he vaunts o(
being the defender of rights th t he tram
pies undv r foot \ we way answer his four
words so extremely short, by three (till
shorter : that is true. There is riot a rea
sonable mm, who, in comparing the re
fpefhve affirmations, can poffiblv i elieve
that the fix deputies, (who by the bye have
all given f >me proofs of their patriotism
and veracity) have agreed together to de
ceive the Aflembly, or to be deceived
themselves ; and who can besides believe
Luckne' to have a belter memory than fix
individuals upon a fact committed to writ
ing immediately afterwards ; I may fay,
upon the spot. Now, gentlemen, thofc
inconteltible premises being granted, there
is no one who would not fooncr believe
La Fayette ambitious than Luckner a.'
impolter and consequently that the Mai
fhul has told the truth. We mull here ei
ther believe in a miracle, or believe that
the proposal uas made. Every thing cor
roborates the truth of the proposal, whilfi
the falfehood < f tie fix members, or o:
Luckner, (always upright when left tc
hin.felf) bears not the least ftiadow of pro
bability. Let every one then, in difcharg
ing the functions of a juror of accusation
descend into his conscience, and he wil
not doubt a moment; though there exilti
no legal proofs that the proposal has beer
made But should dure (till be doubts,
the avowal of Mr. La Fayette and Mr.
Bureaux Pufy mult infallibly cJidipatf
them. The latter cnnf fTcs, that one o:
th principal ohj dts of liis mefiage wastr
communicate to Luckner, that it appearec
lo Mr. La Fayette, that the moll pri-ffi t
necessity of the It te, was to put a Itop t<.
the excefies of anarchy. And Mr. La
Fayette wrote to Luckner on the 22d ol
June : " I can no longer submit in silence
to the tyranny exercised by the faftiout
aver the Ne-iional Aflembly and t : e king,
in obliging the fonier to swerve from th<
con Ititutiort which we have all sworn to
defend, and in putting the latter into im
minent danger, both as to his poiitical and
physical txiftence."
Now, gentlemen, if on the other hand
Mr. La Fayette could r.o longer submit
himfell to the National Aflembly, milled
by the factious, and if on the other it ap
pears to him, ti.at the molt pieffi- ; neces
sity of the state was to put a (top to the
excesses of those fait ions, is not the im
mediate ccnfiquence, that he wi!hed to
employ every means in his power, and
that it was to that end he made the pro
posal to Maifli I Luckner? What then
were these means ? The infurredion with
which he has menaced you; the armed
forces'; his p titioning officers and soldi
ers, wo paKted lor the glory of falling
upon their unarme i fellow citizens, whom
they had the insolence to term the fadtious.
We mult believe that Mr. La Fayette fe
rionfly intended to make war upon these
fadlious, or we mull believe him to bt a
downright idect, for diking permission to
comcto Pa-is merely to fvrmon the J co
bins which would be more worthy a school
boy than a general But, once more, it is
with this key we come at the bottom us
:ne conduct of Mr. La Fayette : thisex
a'ains why, in changing frontiers, he
would not change armies ; why lie chose
0 expose his own to useless fatigues ra
her than be separated from it. He
would have an army devoted to his will,
necaufe he would be the head of a partv ;
>eeaufe he would crush the opposite party.
Fhefe were exadly the politics of Crom
vell, and I fay with Mr. Lafource, tha if
La Fayette does not come up to hischa
adter, it is not his villainy that he wants
>ut his courage and his talents. How
ler, it would be decfliult to find a man of
vhom Cromwell could be more ji'ftly cited
is a model, if we copy his portrait after a
celebrated Englilh historian. I invite
Mr. Dumolard to confnlt the original En
;lilh, which I tranfiate literally.
'• Cromwell, a vain-glorious man, who
ought to di Itroy the authority of par
ament by ali the artifices of hypocrisy j
vho in order to ingratiate him elf with
he loya ifts, obtained an amnesty for
hem in !en:ent terms ; who favoured on
)ne fide those who were of no religion
it all, and on the other the bigots who
joifoned the min's of the troops against
he parliamentby inflammatory pamphlets;
vho frequently I eld military councils at
lis own house, wliere the quellion on the
nffoi uiiofl of the patliament was firll agi
ated ; Cromwell, at la'l, presented, in the
lames of his army a petition, in which he
lemanded, w th uncommon insolence, a
eform of abuses."
H ere it may not be amiss to observe to
Vlr. Dumolard, that an hoficlt fanatic of
hose times, in a panegyrick on the Englfh
1 fur per, called him the ettlejl Jon of liberty.
Flic parliament thanked Cromwell, who
n a few days after turned out the par
.anient.
Give me leave to quote another example.
General Lambert in 1659, p efented to
he parliament an address, in the name of
lis army ; ' e demanded, l.ke ourge eral,
.e prompt chadifement of the leaders in
in inlurredtion, the abolition of <tll parti
cular societies, and the appointment of ge
leral officers to his fancy. A mot on was
tiacie to fend him to the tower; gentler
lieans were, however, preferred, and in a
month after th t the p rli .ment was dif.
ulved by General Lambert. I have no
tpprehenfions that you will experience a
ike tate , for there is no Cromwell in
France ; nor, above all, are there any fol
iiers of Cromwell. But, Gentlemen, the
najeltv of the people infuked, the eonfti
lution violated, the fafcty of the Hate ex
posed, our liberty menaced ; all demand an
rxemplary vengeance ; a decree that may
prove to the nation, that all are truly equal
in the eye of the lawx and that no one has
the privilege of b ing criminal with impu
nity. Either this decree or your ignomi
ny ; this decree or the abasement of the
:oniiitution.
Mr Dumolard, who felt the weakness
jf his cause w th regard to the law, has
very ab y expatiated on the services of the
15 neral: he, knows to interpose his power
.etween the conHituted authorities; in a
word, it he has a used the public force
:ommitte;i to his chargc, in order to create
limftlf a party, is it not evident that he
s criminal in the highetl degree ? o fay
hat there 13 not ground of impeachment,
jr limply toceniure him, is it not faying
0 him openlv, General continue your
nlots, but manage them v ith moredifcre
ion ; continue to influei.ee men's minds
tgainft Ihe factious, to keep alive our 1111-
iappv diffenflons: time may bring you to
1 more favourable opporturi ty, and then
>■011 may llrike with luccefs ; for,fince you
ire acquitted, it is evident your party is
:!>e strongest. In finort, ge".tle:nen,
icquit Mr. La Fayette is not only to give
aim a general brevet of impunity, but it
s to prepare him a throne on the ruins of
:he law and the constitution : and it is
not I who pronounce this sentence it is a
L-elcbrated man whom we all revere; it is
Rovjfciiu. "Whatever," fays he, "be the
conitkut'en of a government, if there be a
(ingle man who >s exempt from the law,
all the red ar necessarily at his discretion "
1 I A*rAvtl General La Fayette the
'here! of CLCCi /
PRINTED BV
CHILDS and SWA IN E.