Numb. 3iofVoL. ll.] WEDNESDAY, February 13, 1793.
Conclulion of the correfpondencebetwoen
Mr. Clymer and Mr. Addijon.
Mr. Clymer to Mr. Claypoole, printer of
The Mail.
TSEING at least equally reln£ka:it with
Mr. Addifon to appear in public, I
lhall make my fev ottfervations oa his
piece as fhortaspotfible.
He charges me with initVeprefentinj his
motive for declining my rt i .iiiition, a: id
appeals to the publilhed correfyondence
between us. I join iflive with him, and
reft upon his firft letter of the 29th o!
September, wherein nothing can be plain
er than his opinion of the odiouf.iefs ot
the talk I meant to afiign him, th.it of ta
king the examination of .Me witaefies at
Walhington—Thefe are his exprelfioils .
"If therefore itb? t ne, aai yo. i c-ar.ioi
doubt it, that it is the measure, and no: the
man, that the people hate ; k it p.-upet
for you who have accepted the comimflion.
to devolve the execution of it on one, icc.''
What commission ? o e tu take the exa
mination. It would therefore have been,
aci'-rdingto hirafeif, odious to take tlit
examination.
To go further—" But I hive," fays he
" other reafonsfor deciinin rhis eonimif
fia.i " These certain./ r.m.t be reasons if
aiiilion.
But Mr. Addifon f-iys.l led him intc
a.-, opinion, that he w.ll ivijuired to taki
eliminations under a delegated authority
a service he might decline, as bi'i i 1 t;iv
cafe optional, not obligatory. lam to L\
pardoned in considering this appreheniioi
only as affected ; for not being a judicial oi
cer, which he knew,he alio knew that Icouh
not personally adnuniiler an oath. Th>
phrase "to take depolition contained ii
lnyinftruclioi), a copy of w 1 ch he h id,conic
not have been ynderftood by him i t an)
oilier fenfe-thau-tii,:. . .. .. :..«j t)w-Vn fc.
taken. The justices at Pitdbargh so under
ftoodit; they made examinations ; the)
took depositions, not as my delegates, bui
in their own right.
Having drawn forth Mr. Addifon froir
the shelter of fubterfuge, I might difmif
my subject; but I cannot help aim.
why he chufes to forfake this ground ofre
fufal altogether, and trull to anothei
muchlefsdefenfible; toputit upon hisoat
dislike of the judicial fyltem of the Unitec
States, and not upon the odium to be in
curred by compliance. On the latter hi
might poflibly liand acquitted, for it is pain
ful to encounter the hatred of neighbours:
but how (hall we excuse him as a magif
trate or citizen, for disregarding a law
merely because the law is not to his mind
We fee in thisexample,Mr. Addifon run
ning exaitly parallel with his countrymen
when they oppose a revenue art of tin
United States : they both set up their o
pinions against the government; they botl
lefufe to obey because they dislike, arc
1b undertake, as far as it refpecls them
selves, to annul a lawofthe land.
Mr. Addifon has laboured in extenuati
011 of the otfences of the western peoplt
against the notoriety of numerousfacts.am
against the general belief; and according
to him, " I have laid improper things
in reference, as I suppose, to some free
doms taken with the perfonsof the magis
trates and clergy.—They were juftifiable.
And I am authorised to re-affirm, what
has been already said with refpeit to the
people generally, with an added afliirance,
that notwithstanding the general- difcoun
tenanceofthe union, they still perlilt v
the boldest defiances of law and govern
ment. If I have " impeached the jufticc
of the country," it is because I had heard
file had generally but very illy proportion
ed her punifhmcnts to the crimes commit
ted.
Mr. Addifon declares, he shall confine
himfelf in his publication entirely to an
explanation of the charge, as he calls it,
brought against him ; but why in the very
ail of fliewing fucli a sense ot decency
and decorum does he violate their rules,
in glancing at vulgar (landers already sub
stantially exposed and despised.
GEORGE CLYMER.
Philad. Jan. 28, 1793.
Note.—ln my printed letters I observe
great inaccuracies, which I believe are not
in the originals.
Conclusion of the delate in the Hot:fe oj
Representatives en Saturday, January 5,
on the reduction of the prejeut military
ejlablijhment of the army.
(Continued from No. 133.)
Mr. WILLIAMSON did not entire
ly approve of the motion in its present
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhed Weus todays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per anntm.
form ; the blanks m:;~ T :t be so filled, he
thought, as to import a thing opposite to
his willies—they might import a discharge
of the troops already raised- He believ
ed his colleague h:ul no fiich desire ;he
thought the liieafure would be improper,
but he wished not to have a regiment of
officers without soldier—he wished to fix
a time at which the recruitingfervicefhouid
cease and thefupeiliumerary officers fhouid
be discharged. As he intended to move that
the proportion might be so amended, he
(houid therefore c.-Mlidcrit in that light—
and he believed th - neafure would not b.
imprudent nor iuco:t<i(lent with the mo.
vigorous measures of dt fence or offence.
It (houHl be remembered that the House
of Reprefrntutives, when tliey had tin- bill
before tiiero * hioh la«t winter patted into
a Inv for defending the frontiers, font it
to the senate with a clause importing that
officers below the rank of field officers.
Ihoukl not be put into commiiiion any faf
ter than troops could be enliited. The
Senate adhering to their privilege, refufed
to agree to that clause in the bill, anditbe
came nccefiiii y immediately to commi.'ii >n
the oiiic it ; for 5000 men, some of whom,
if fame fpitts truth, not covetous of honor
are com . 'it with their pay, without having
railed three men. By the propoftd ii'ivwl
ment, the officers only would be difinifted
whom moil of us wished never tohavefeen
in tommiuion.
The proposed regulation has been ce i
fured a. implicating some ktfid of censure
on the executive. He viewed it in a dif
ferent light. The executive had done what
waa-proper and necellary at the time. But
if it fhouid appear thac other measure
would fit the change of circunjlla..-
ces, he did not fee why those nl alures
fhouid not be adopted. It fhouid be rtcul
'ected that during the lafl w'ru, r. <*h-f»
tiie ett unite of 5000 men neceUary for the
defence of our frontierwas handed to C. 011-
grefs, there was no militia law. A well
armed effective mditia, that palladium of
liberty, had once and again been recom
mended b',' the President to the attention
of Congress : but Congref, from year to
year, as if they wished for a (landingarmy
had neglected the militia. Towards the
Jose ot the lad feflion indeed they |) 1 ileel a
law. He hoped he might without offence
call it the shadow of a law.—lt was faying
in a few words that tiie fever.it Hates might
lave a good militia il they pleased ; and ir
they pleafed, v they might have none at all.
Was the executive to trust the defence oi
1 country to a militia formed under luch
a law ?—He thought not—but he observed
that since the last winter it had come to be
generally known that a clalsof our fellow
citizens exist on the frontier s,, who are at
all times ready to serve, not as drafted
militia, but as volunteers. These are the
iuen,faid he, by whom the Indians mult b.:
chastised, or we lliall never have peace.
They are the belt woodsmen and marks
men, and they have 110 profeflional intere'.l
in spinning out the war. He said he muii
repeat the observation, that volunteers o!
:he militia are the only troops for vigorous
offenfive operations. Figure to yourfelve
an army of regulars creeping through tire
wilderness with all its cannon and otliei
military apparatus in chafe of anaked lavage
who fees it without being seen. It is ar
elephant in chafe of a wolf. The troops
already raised may be pretty well disciplin
ed before the season for action—they art
fufficient with the co-oper3tions of the
militia, to take a port, and build fort:
where they please—every thing else is be.
yond their power, if they were not five but
fifteen thousand. They will never fee an
Indian uulefs he chooses to be seen. —He
wilhed to be indulged in a single observa
tion respecting a cafe in which it was fait
the other day.theinilitia had been surprised.
He was sorry that his naming Major Adah
had produced the remark; he would
nevertheless venture to repeat the cafe a;
an inflance of vigilance and bravery. Tht
Major believing that there was an enem)
at hand, had vilited all his pods at mid
night in perfc>n ; his Lieutenant, Madison.
before the dawn of day. roused all tilt
men, telling them that the Indians were
coming. 1 lie Major withing to leave the
ground before day-light called in the cen
tinels, —but the Indians rushing in with
them, gave a heavy fire before there war
light by which they could be seen. The
Major, lie said, had not the merit, as he
believed, of having been a continental
officer, but had the merit, not less honor
able, of having served bravely in the mili
tia. He tjueflioned on the whole, whether
any of the green troops to be raised next
spring or fumnier, will make so good a
defence as Major Adair's militia had nude:
They had taken scalp for scalp, though
they fought against the odds of three to
one.—He prayed that it might be remem
bered, that his ideas were not founded on
any hopes of fuddeu peace with the In
dians; on the contrary, every motion of
the Indians, and every measure taken by
those who had the mo<t influence over the
Indians, induced him to regard an Indian
•i ar as the perpetual tax 01" at lealt one
million per annum. It is fortunate, as
lie conceived, that the United States know
i!ie source of their misfortunes—and if
rlisy are compelled to spend one million
:r annum in oppoling a savage enemy
\ho seer.is to be hunted upon them, per
they may be taught to i demnify
th-*iflfelves by refilling to expend several
fiiiliioiu which they can ealily save. If a
perpetual tax on this head must be raised,
fjund policy will readily point to the pro
) .-r object of taxation : but this mull re
niin over for our fucceflbrs. In the
■ -in time believing that the troops al
ready raised are fufficient to maintain every
■ ' >rt that i , erected, and being confident
n;:t volunteers may be found atany time
>.!!!.ient, if it [hall be liecelfary, to ex
:;rpite every hoflile tribe of Indians—he
iiauid vote for the proportion with the
nopofed amendment.
Mr. Wadfworth closed the debate by
,; pl>'' n g particularly to that part of Mr.
tel.'. speech, in which he controverted
'UiieofMr. Wadfworth's flatements.
Mr. Wadfworth raid, in the ast of May
i l , 1792, <173.500 dollars were appro
. iated for various pnrpofea, of which
v,cao dollari were for the quarter
ii(« titer's department, which sum added ft*
!.coo, appropriated by the a£t of De
v.4 79.1, ni-jke ;lu' tlwrnfuul
foil alsashe hid before (fated—not finding
the eltimates in the Clerk'soffice,on which
hefe appropriations were made—l went,
"aid Mr. Wadfworth, to the War-Office,
md took copies of both estimates, which
1 have iii my hand—and there can be no
loubt of the fact, as it has been slated by
110. Mr. Wadfworth added some gene
•al remarks refpefting militia and regular
:roo;>, —the merits of the former he never
iieant to depreciate—he had been witness
o many brilliant actions in which they
lad been engaged. On the present occa
ii):i, his wilti was to impress 011 the house
he superiority of a regular eftabliflied
orce for the service now under confidera
:ion.
For the National Gazette.
Ibfervations on the propriety of extending
the ptriuers of the Juflices of the Peace.
VyHEN the conflitution of Pemifvlvania
' ' was new modelled, a conliderable
:!iaage was made in the courts of common
3lt--is ; though the extenlion of the powers
of juflices of the peace for the recovery
if fmail debts to the amount often pounds
jail given general fatisfaftion to the peo
ple, and had produced very few appeals
from the juflices' judgment, yet the con
tention thought it would afford greater se
curity, if the commiflions of the plea?
r.;dpeace wei"e separated; and consequent
ly the persons who gave judgment in a
fdinniory manner, pre vented from fitting
;n courts upon appeals from such fnmmary
judgments. Tiie conllitution also direits
a simple and fnmmary method of bringing
the judgment of a justice of peace before
the court by certiorari.
The people of Pennsylvania, confirmed
intheir opinion by mature experience, hac
long wifhecl to have the power of the jus
tices of the peace in the recovery of debt:
farther extended ; and when the new con.
Ilittition had chrectedan arrangement whict
afford-d greater security at a confiderabh
expellee lo rhe slate, a law for this purpose
was generally expe&ed ; consequently the
fir ft House of Reprefeutatives elected un
der the new conflitution, originated a bil
for extending the power of the juflices ol
the peace to the recovery of twenty pounds;
but it was rejected in the Senate. The lafl
House of Reprefeutatives originated afimi
lar bill, but it experienced the fame fate
in the Senate.
When we reflect that both Houses are
elected by the fame conflituents, and ob
serve how great a majority of the House
of Reprefeutatives 011 both occasions voted
for the bill, hot withffanding that an elec
tion intervened, we arc at a loss to account
for the conduct of the Senate, in thus re
peatedly rejecting the bill. That the law
[Total No. 135.]
yers and their friends made the most ar
dent exertions to influence the Senate, and
that a majority of eighteen members are
moreeafily influenced than the majority or
(ixty-nine, appears the most rational
ground upon which this unexpected con
iluft of the majority of the Senate, can be
accounted for.
Not doubting but the present House
of Representatives will exert itfelf in
endeavouring to accomplilh this salutary
purpose, and hoping that the Senate, a few
members of which havd been changed last
election, will ltudyihe interest, and attend
to the voice of their constituents, which I
understand is now unequivocally exprefled
ay their petitions, I, though relidiug at a
distance, wi(h to contribute my mite, by
offering a few thoughts on the subject
through the channel of your liberal gazette.
That the summary powers of the jutti
:es of the peace in the recovery of debts is
nconfiftent with tryal by jury, is tl\e most
"orniidable objection to the bill, 1 prefuine
.vill be admitted.
I answer, that this objection will appfy
is powerfully to the repealing of
sting laws which enable the juitices of the
>eace to recover forty (hillings, five pounds
ind ten pounds under different regulations,
is to prevent the extension of their power
:o twenty pounds ; for if the principle is
wrong, a few pounds less or more do
lot alter the cafe; the poor man's forty
hillings,or five pounds,are according to the
:onflitution and moral equity, entitled to
the fame protection as the rich man'sfifty
sounds; therefore the members of Aflem
)ly who for conlcience fake vote against
;he extension of this power Co earnellly
lelired by the citizens, inuft alio for con
cience fake, endeavour to procure a repeal
>f the exilling laws on this subject.
But I may be told that this manner of
•eal'oiimg would eqnaliy juftiry extending
:he power in queltion much further ; that
t would apply 111 favour of one hundred
pounds as well as twenty: I grant it would,
and when the citizens are convinced by
experience of the propriety of extending
it farther, it ought to be done under pro
per regulations.
What ! fays an oppofer of the bill, in
"urprize ; would you destroy tryal by jury
altogether ?
No, I would be among the last that would
impair that bulwark of liberty, and belt
"ecurity of property ; but tryal by jury
mud in every cafe be enjoyed according to
the forms prescribed bylaw; the jury mult
be summoned and pannellcd, and the acti
on brought as the law directs ; the courts
must decide that there is cause of action
&c. The interpolation of the justices'
judgment in certain cases is only the mail
tier prescribed by law to come at tryal by
jury/n these cases ; for either party may
aring his cafe before a court and jury with
as little cost, and have as speedy a decision,
as if it came before the court in the Jtrft
inflance, with this additional advantage to
the plaintiff, that the property of the de
fendant is sooner secured from being eru
oezzled. Surely this form of coming at
tryal by jury when ic is neceflary, is much
more rational, than the figment of anejeCt
nent, without which nonsensical form, a
nan cannot recover hisplantation ; and if
t is not neceflary, parties in suit ought not
:o be put to cofts,expence and delay.mere
y for the fupportof county court lawyers.
This brings into view an argument
which I am informed was uttered on the
floor of the House of Representatives by a
jrofeflional member, ill opposition to the
Q. 20 bill when it was firlt agitated. He
Paid that aCtions for debts not exceeding
£. 20 afforded the only provision for young
attorneys, and in conducting these they
gained experience and credit, fufficient to
recommend them to more important busi
ness and offices in future.
In the name of justice, is this particu
lar slafsof men to serve an apprenticelhip
at theexpenceof the poor debtors in the
commonwealth ? are they to be the (elect
ed favourites of government, to vhofe
emolument and aggrandizement,the courts
of justice, the powers of the magistrates
and the interests of the citizens, n.vut all
be peculiarly accommodated ?
I efteein and would encreafe this clafi of
citizens as far as I consider their profeflion
ncceflary to the other orders of citizens ;
but it must be acknowledged that the farm
er, the mechanic, and dealer, add some
thing to the public stock ; and that the
lawyers do not; 'therefore the lawyers
ought only to be encouraged in society as
far,or in such numbers,as is neceflary for the
benefit of the other orders, and no farther.Much as I refpeft tliis order of mjn, I
would n»t be sorry to fee fucli of them, as
are nnneceffary, more honorably employed
at the plough ; I expect Btey would make
Ikliful farmers iiiri ufeful members of so
ciety when they would have more of a
common interelt therewith, for they them -
selves will acknowledge that,in the, arts ■ol
tie 1 ny, the chicane, bargains, Jkc. in ufc
wirh thrife gentlemen", aiid upun wliici;
much of their profits depend, and which h
a part ol their fyftera, theyjlvipe not i
common intereTt with the -corr>phimity
Qewevcx.l do not my owi
lltferiugi, so • though I hive had a com
mon fhi-e of dealing, and am now fixtj
years nf age, I never had an a£tion befort
a court, nor gave a lawyer a fee on mj
own account.
Extending t:ie power of the juflices o;
the peace to £. 20, is not doing more ir
the year 1793, then extending their powei
to £• f' n tV,e y°ir '745 was. At that time
£. 5 would have phrchafed as good a horft
as a . 20 w ill do nojv t«\s-1 ;:tely as the year
1763, horses wer • purchafeV. at £. 100 1
fco-e, viz. for Go!. Bouquet's campaign,
and many of thent W'ereofafufficientfizefoi
the Waggon or plow ; and land which fold
at/.'3 an acre when the £. 5 law Wi
made would cfrtninly fell now for £. Ij.
In short the nominal wealth of Pennsylva
nia is now more tiian four times as much
as it was then ; therefore if a law ena
bling the jnOices of the peace to give
judgment . i actions of debt to the amoiml
°f £■ s' n '745 w sfuinble to the weak!
ami dealing-, of Perinfylvnmu, a law e'na
bling them to recover debts to the amoun
of £. ;o now, ninft be full as fuitafcle.
But the profefiionalgentlemen afTert wit!
vehemence, that it will ruin the poor peo
pie and enrich the lawyers ; that they op
pole it for the public good.and that did thei
Ihwly their own as lawyers, the
would fuppnrt the measure, as tliey woul<
enrich thcmfelves much more by action
on appeal, than they could do by aclions i:
the firlt inliance. Though I iiigiily ap
prove of their patriotism in this instance
vet I mult beg leave to differ in opinio]'
with re) the fact. When the/, j
law w.i; eii-ftcd, lawyers were fewer ii
number and had less influence than at pre
sent, tho' no doubt they had as much vir
tue, and yet we do not hear that they op
poled that law. However, when tile/, ic
law was enacted, they opposed it with the
fame ardour, and 011 die fame grounds up
on which they now make this (land. I was
then a member of aifembly, and such oj
the member* as were lawyers, and their
brethren out of doors, who advocatei
their caof<,.moJe such pathetic lamenta
tions for the danger that the people wotih
be expo fed to, ai:d the exorbitant wealtl
the lawyers would accumulate in conse
quence of that law if it passed, that I was
almoft-difiiiaded from votiqg for it. This
circumltance made nip the more attentivt
to its operations and I am now convincei
from experience, that appeals have nol
been encreafed in proportion to the en
creafs of judgments ; and I presume the
sage and difintereited gentlemen of tilt
foarr will candidly acknowledge, that they
have not had.it in their powe" to make the
extensive fortunes they boasted of by ap
peals from decitions under that law. Con
sequently the people's property is fafe, anc
the tender confcienc£s of the lawyers nol
wounded.
Therefore, I infer that if the/. 5 afl
was a good oneforty-feven years ;igo, ant!
if the ten pound act was very acceptable
to the citizens, if it afforded security to
their property w'thout fubjetting them tc
the avarice and artificial delays of the law
yer--, when the justices of the peace anc
the judges of the pleas were the fame per
sons; I conclude, that now,
when the appeal is more prompt, the judg
es more dilinterefted. and the influence of
the lawyers watchfully exerted to pro
mote ccrtioraris, and to prove the disgrace
and difmiflion of the juflices of the peace,
who have no longer a controul over the
barr, the £. 20 att will be fafe and saluta
ry, and that it is the duty of the legisla
ture to enable the justices of the peace to
recover £. 20, or a higher sum, if the peo
ple require it. It ought to be coijifidered,
that beiides the other checks upon the jus
tices of the peace, the legislature has the
power of their removal from office at plea
lure.
In the present situation of Pennfyivania,
when commerce and the arrangements of
the Banks, render proihpt payment in ma
ny cases indifpenfibie, I am of opinion the
creditor ought to be enabled to recover
from the debtor according to the terms oi
the contract. The artificial delay of pay
ment after judgment, while it favours the
defendant in attion, occasions distress and
fometimesruin to numbers ; fertile plain
tiff may and often is, debtor to another,
and he to a third person, &c. However, I
do not with that a law of this nature should
affect contra£ts already 'exifling, nor even
those to be made, without previous warn
ing to the citizens. Whether these thoughts
will have any influence with the legisla
ture I know not, but I am certain I speak
the sentiments of perhaps ten to one of the
citizens with whom I am acquainted.
A SUSQUEHANNAH FARMER.
Feb. 7, 1793. >
For the National Gazette.
T7OR several years prior to the year 179 c,
there was a very general attention paid
to the arts, by men of every decree of
wealth; there was then an attentive ear
to every thing relative to the arts that w as
likely t:> he ufeful to our country, 1 and an
aiding baud every where visible. Some
undertakings in the new, or improved,
arts failed from being too complex, and
by the application of powers not perfectly
irnclerflood, which eventually tended to
the discouragement of many other ufeful
and practicable improvements. At the
commencement of the above year, nevs
objects (like a new coat of paint 011 an old
ground) objured the old ones, anions
which, however were some of the more
recent arts or inventions which are now to
be buried in oblivion for want of a littl 1
fafbionable aid.
As, according to the ruling fafhion of the
times,little or no encouragement i <
to the arts either new or old, so of coniV
quence, it has become a kind of hzr.jy to
mention the word machine, be it for eve;
lb valuable a purpose. If an artiif offers
any new i lvention that is pi ufible, every
body affects to wonder why lie is not en
couraged, and yet 1:0 one lifts a finger to
do it—This i.i varnishing matters over with
the new beu<h.
If an agricultural machine could be
produced that would serve to abridge la
bour in two branches (and another in the
manufacture oi duck-twine) that would
lave from 50 to 400 dollars annually, in
proportion to the lize of the farm, and the
machine not to cofl more to each farmer,
or manufacturer than from 10010 125 dol
lars, and to Ia ft 20 years, many would fay
such an arfijl. and the fabrication offnch
machines ought to be encouraged.
They order things very differently in
(.hina. There, agriculture and its im
provements are theprir.mm mobile.
It will reatliiy be admitted that there
are at lealt JOOO farmers (some lay 5000)
within th" present population of the union
who could afford the expence, if the fav ■
\ings could be really attained by the
means—fuppot'e the average to be 100 dol
lars annual favingto each*—thfct would be
ico,oco dollars every year, or i,gco,ccc
tor every ten years.
Many readers will consider this ffate
ment as chimerical, and call it, no doubt,
a balloon-affair, altho' there i, hardly a
v.letui new invented machine thrt has met
even with baljoon 'encouragement. The
opinions, however, of such as are 1101
competent judges, will b?vu f ::r
weight, as it is always eatier to conn i;4r
than laveiiigate. Let ft be remeniberit:
that there are men in this city of th? bed
judgment in mechanical affairs, who enter
tain not the leal; doubt, but such machine!
as are above alluded to,may be made, tc
lave as much as represented ; and thoft
who make the attempt maypromife them
fehes every probability of fucccfs.
The above representations, altho' foun
ded in truth, were rather the more urgec
From feeing a late publication in the Na
tional Gazette, intimating there is soon tt
De erected a laboratory to exhibit balloons,
and other curious machinery. As theft
exhibitions are to be fupportrd by donati
ons, the above declaration refpeclinc ufe
tul machines is made (if not in the f.tni
month) at leafl in the fame year, for rea
sons too obvious to mention'
Now Quere, which is the mofl valtia:-
ble to our country, such a machine, if it
can be accomplished by public encourage
ment, yr the balloon ? To afcertaiu tht
practicable utility of the one will req; i.->:
2codollars (the difference of cod between
rity or country is 125 and 200 dollars}—
the balloon, if elevated, will cost betweel!
1000 and 2000. If there fhonld be an
who are as much interelted in the know*
edge of the one as some are in the other,
:hey will enquire for information at the
printing office, No. 209, Market, or High,
Itreet, where a paper is left for the peril
al of those who wilii to be informed of the
iifes andpurpofes thereof. When that in
formation is attained, so far as it may be
atisfactory, it is hoped they will fubferibe
the above sum for a machine for agricul
tural purposes, which fliall then bt J built
and exhibited—for nothing.
Feb. 9.
For tie National Gazette.
Numb. 11.
AS the funding fyffem of the United
States has every appearance of beco
ming highly injurious to the rights, and
dangerous to the liberties of the ? -< : ;.e;
it not only demands the serious attention
of every original creditor, but of every
real citizen. On this important fubjeit
let 11s examine principles for ouirfe'/es,
and let us determine what measures ought
to be pursued to prevent the impending
evils.
It has been asserted by a person who hi
therto has been fuffcred to ojjhnie tcogreat
a degree of authority in the government,
that a. public debt is a public blessing.—
This bol.d aflertion cannot merit belief,
as it is jWliolly inconliflent with the na
ture of things, and is in no degree sup-
rorted by well atteiled facts. The boaft
:d reputation of this ftireffnn \y'Jl iel
no validity to his mere opinions, 1101- \\i
■is clecifionsbe regarded as oracles except
by those wlvo never think forthemfelves,or
who aretoo indolent to examine his opini
ons, always enveloped in darkness and
myfterv.
Those who areanxious an<J always rea
dy to trump up the pretexts of a govern
ment for pursuing unjoft meafmes, do not
: onfider that the law of nature has ail equal
authority with the municipal law, and
(hould be equally refpe&able and sacred.
There can be but one foie rule of justice
for aIL mankind, whether individually, or
united in society. As an individual, by co
ming into society, does not relinquish his
natural right's, neither can society collec
tively be juftified in doing an action which
would be improper or criminal in an in
dividual— all actions or situations juftifia
iii« in the one cafe, are equally juftifiable
i i the other—under particular diftrelfing
circumstances of individuals, it has been
thought neceflary and proper to set alide
the common law, by acts of bankruptcy,
bv which a bankrupt after giving up the
whole of hisproperty to be divided amongst
hi: creditors, an indemnity is granted to
h':;-i and his posterity of being free and
d.fcnarged forever from all debts ow ing
by him at the time he became a bankrupt.
Companies or societies of men are equally
liable to mi fortunes jikl to the derange
ment of their affairs,as individuals When
ever the expences of such foci eties exceed
their ordinary revenue, they become in
-1 olved in debt—when such debts hate once
been accumulated to a certain degree,
there is/carce a (ingle instance of their ha
ving been fairiy and completely paid
The liberation of the public revc-nue, if it
!i is ever been brought about at all, hasal
u ays been brought about by a bankrupt
cy , fomelunesby an avowed one, but al
ways by a real one, though frequently by
i pretended payment.
The tailing of the denomination of the
coin has been tW most usual expedient by
which a real public bankruptcy has been
disguised under the appearance of a pre
tended payment. When it becomes n.;-
ceffary for a (late to dechire itfelf a bank
rupt, in the f 'Uie manner ar> when it be
come:: necellary for an individual to do la,
:i fair,open and avowed bankruptcy is al
ways the measure which is both least dif
iionourable to the debtor,and least hurtful
to the creditor.
The Romans, at the end of the firft Pu
nic war reducfd the As, the coin or de
nomination- t>y "\vhtch thiy r'rtrrfpirf 'd the
talfle of all theirother coins, from contain
ing twelve ounces of copper, to contain
:>nly two otnees. The republic was in
this manner enabled to pay the great debts
ivhich it had contracted with the sixth part
t>f what it really owed. In the end of the
reign of Henry Vlll.and in the beginning
r>f that of Edward VI. the Engliih coin
was not only rnifedin its denomination but
adulterated in its itandard.
In the year i 74- * the Colony of Mafia
chnfetts Pay paid the greater part of its
public debts with the tenth part of the va
ne of the money for which its paper
aills had been granted.
The Congress of the United States paid
the soldiers for their meritorious services
and the fanners for fsipplies rendered, du
ring thejate war, with bills of credit and
certificates of one eighth of their nominal
value. Parting with the evidences of the
mblic debt has been imputed to the origi
nal creditors, as a crime, and therefore it
s said they fuffer by tlvir own wrong—
this i* adding insult to injury. No com
mutation of this kind can be just, because
the creditors feeing the diftfefs of their
country, and knowing its inability to make
*ood its contrails, received the evidences
it their demands at a depreciated value,
:nd their own individual diftrefles obliged
them to part with such evidences at a rate
u ixed by public opinion—The creditors ha
ving in this manner received two (hillings
ind fix pence in the pound, from the go
vernment in an actual (late of bankrupt
cy, and parted with the evidences of their
laim at the fame rate —can it be thought
■eafonable or just that the afiignee (hould
iow be entitled to that which the assignor
jononrabty relinquished to the diftrelfed
late of his country. Must it not rather
>e regarded as the inoft atrocious a£l of
niquity and injustice, that ever disgraced
the annals of civil society, that to secure
the full payment ofthedebtto the afiig
nee, a funding system (hould take place,
by which the original creditors and their
posterity will become the hewers of wood
and the drawers of water, to a foreign
n.onicu interest?
AN AMERICAN FARMER.
*See Hutckinfor?s Hjlory of MqJJhchufetts
lay.
To the Freemen of america.
Fellow Citizens,
pACI lOUS,difcontented and disappoint
ed as I have been supposed, still I w ill
not be turned alide from mv purpoiei by
idle and unmeaning founds, but continue
ray feeble exertions in the fer'vice of. tjy v
country, whose dearest intcre'Ss arc n. •'»
subservient to private aggrandizement, :d
■ ported with without compnnflior.. The
man who has ever dared to c;,]l in question
the infallibility of administration, or the
virtue of its intentions, has always been
branded with the character of factious, or
envious, however upright his views, how
ever unambitious his willies, and however
intimately incorporated his interest with
the prosperity of his country —This is a
mark which administration, or its fyco
phantJ. lixes upon him to lellen theinfju
ence of the voice of truth ; it is an unnght
cous policy, which the enlightened jnindi
of my countrymen will not ifufftr to ope
rate, without having firll ascertain d the
jnfiice of the application. If 'ft ■: facts
which were adduced are unfounded if the
reasonings upon those facts are'foj : lical,
your own good fehfe will difcove the de
ception, and give their author hi- ■ 11 mea
sure of contempt-; if, on the coin ary, the
fails are undeniable, and the Inferences
from them flow naturally, yoii-Aill'dUow
the injury has not been rti3g:i:ii;d , and let
them have their just weight. We, as yet,
inhabit a land of freedom, and it is a right
which iflues frim this freedom, that each
citizen fliall be at liberty to declare his sen
timents \\ ith the boldnefe and dignity of his
republican charter—Courtiers alone flat
ter, they are the consumptive iiifecis of a
monarchical fun, which the hardy climate
of republicanism is unfitted for : but free
men know no other idol than Liberty, no
other object of homage thai their <^od—
The fertility of indifcrirabvate approbation
of the measures of government be longs on
ly to courtiers ; the foul of a true republi
can recoils at a bafenef-. which wouid fub
(cribe to a meafureincompatible with that
character which he has avowed before
heaven and the world. Can a freeman
reconcile it to his confcienccto fay that
levees are proper in a republic r— Can he
lay his hand upon his bread 'and declare
that the tirlt magiflrate ought to withdraw
hiinfeir trom the people ?—C.* n he admit,
that the IVefident ought to diltinguilh, in
a;ls of hofp.t.'.lityand facial intercom fa be
tween a member of Congress, afnjo private
citizen of unblemithed i pntatk^ii 1 . How
ever great ray admiration of th ji-:'?(ldent's
virtues, iny love for my count! v is para
mount to every other feeling ; -and what I
contidorcd a. a trtfpafs upim equality, I
fi'ould view :is ail infringement upon our
liberties, at;d m ike it the flhjefi of com
ment, let who would be in competition.—
I turn from this (abject, whish has already
been difc;l(fed, to on° not lift HiMt'Sntovt'y
the Jersey v/the Senate oft.Ue V:;itek States
i'. their legislative deliberations. Amotion
for opening the doo s of the Senate cham
ber, has again been loft by a confide; able*
majority, in defiance of inftrutlion—in de
fiance of your opinions—in defiance of eve
ry principle which gives feGiirity to free
men I What mean this conduit ? Which
exprefiion does it carry ftrorgeft with it,
contempt for you. or tyranny? Are von
freemen who ht to know ths individual
conduct of your legiflatoijs, or are you an
inferior order of beings, iftcSpable of com
prehending the fublimiiy*" of senatorial
fun&ions. and unworthy to be entrusted
with their opinions ? How are yon to
know the just from the imjml ftev. ard,
when they are covered with the m.'ilitic of
concealment ? Can there be any question
of legislative import, which freemen thould
nst be acquainted with ? What are you to
expe£t when the stewards of your house
hold re'ufe to give an account of their
stewardship ? Secrecy is nccellhry to d. iign,
and a mafpie to treachery; ho.idiy'lbriiiks
not from the public cy.-. TU- !'•*<«its of
America disdain to be seen by vulgar eves;
the aulic of their voices is harmony *>niy
for themselves, and mult not vibrate in the
ravished ears of an ungraceful and unconrt
ly multitude. Is there any congeniality,
excepting in the administration, "between
the government of Great-Britain, and the
government of the United States? The
Senate suppose there i?. nnd'ufurp the se
cret / rivileges of the i-loufc of Lord?
But whom do the lords represent ? not a
free people, but a nobility ; and who does
the Senate represent? not a free people.
r,»t a nobility as yet, but themfelves —If
they represented a free people they
would hold themselves bound to listen to
their opinions, and attend to their instruc
tions; but as they are an inpilattd br'v. the
would be fo-uereign of the United .States,
they disdain every ether influence. Shall
the mailer listen to the lifpings of the ser
vant? This would be changing the cur
rent of nature indeed, and converting the
right honorable Senators into the mere re
presentatives of a free neon'c—This sure
ly is a character too infigniffcant for briey ;
(I dare not call them men, it would !el:ia
their quality) who move in a Cohere above
the lot even of regenerated hums nit-/.—
Remember, my fellow citizens, that you
fiill are freemen ; let it be impreued upon
your minds that you depend not upon your
reprcfentatives, but that t'niy depend upon
you : and let this truth be ever prefentto
yon, that secrecy in your representatives is
a worm which will prey and fatten upon
the vitals of your liberty.
MIR ABE AIT.
Feb. 7, 1792.FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
Oil Thursday evening last-) arrived at New-
York, the EnglHh Packet,Toriland, in
45 days from Falmouth.—By this vcflVl
we have London accounts to the 20th of
December, from which we have extract
ed the following iatereffing Heads of
Intelligence.
L a N D O N, Dec. 4—;o.
The French army oil the Rhi:ie is to be
raised to -0,000 men, 53 thousand of which
are to be ftationedin thcenvirons of Mentz.
The Prnflian army at Coblence is 25,00 c
men, and magazines forming at Wartz
bnrg, for an army of 0,000 Außrians,now
on their march'from Bohemia, where great
tumults have tuSfn place in cpnfequence
of a demand, fro\n the government, of a
gift of provifmnslfrom the people—The
government of Hanover and the Elector ol
Saxony have put their troops 011 a wai e-
Jlablifhment. and drawn a line on theit
frontier. Cuftine'sarmy isre-inforced vvitl
3000 men, with 1 10 ammunition waggons,
75 of which are laden with gup powder.
Two French frigates arc fjliedfor Civita
Vecchia, with a plenipotentiary oa board
of one of them to the Pope ; who lias givei
orders to receive him with the greatest at
tention.
Letters from Genoa" fay -that the whol<
Frenchfleet is row in ttfeiinlph of Spec
cia, viz. 20 (hips of war Si different fiz.es:
and 21 others hourly expccied from Tou
lon, with 16,000 troops.
The avowed determination of the Frencl:
to open the navigation of the Scheld, :
measure which would go materially to in
jure the commercial interests of the Unitec
Provinces, and with it ultimately that ol
this country, justly alarms the English Go
vernment, closely leagued as it is with Hol
land and Prussia, by the rtioft natural bond
of alliance.—ln consequence, we are in
formed, that imlefs -France immediately
explains fatisfaftorily to the court, a fleet
will be Instantly ordered of twelve (liipr, o!
the line, in addition to t,lie ten frigates
(four »ere added i:i confcqftence of a court
of Admiralty held on Saturday) already
put into commission, which fleet will-be
followed up by a more formidable force ;
and contracts are already eatesred into with
government to supply this equipment w th
all the neceflaries required in actual fervicje.
On the 26th of November, General La
Bourdonnaye proclaimed at Antwerp, that
the national convention meant to pass a
decree for the opening the Scheld —Oil th'e
28th, the citadel of Antwerp was taken by
the Frrtu'u, ',iu one vr-. k er . sur
render of the city—the cidadel of Nainut
was also taken,by ftorin,three or four days
after the surrender of the city.—A misun
derstanding has taken place between Du
mourier and La Bourdourytye ; the latter
has resigned, and Gen. KeHfrmann ha:
gone to take command of the Alpine ar
my.
Extract of a letter from Paris, Dec. 11.
' 1 The commifTaries of the Temple have
rendered to the council general an account
of their execution of the decree i (filed for
taking from the persons of their royal pri
soners all edged inflruments and offenlive
weapons. It appears from their report,
that the king on this occasion behaved
with the mod perfect complacency. Hi;
valet de chambre gave into the hands ol
the commissioners all the instruments of
that description that were in the room :
and his majesty delivered all those which
were in his pocket, observing atthe time,
that they had no reason to be afraid ol
him; lie wiOied only to retain a trifling
article ; but the commifTaries (ternly in
lifted on the literal execution of the de
cree, he immediately gave it to them.—
They afterwards repaired to the apart
ments of the queen, who, dcfpiling the in
dignity too much to appear to feel it.
calmly enquired,if the decree extended to
deprive them of their needles also. Her
Majesty was apparently inclined to hAe
added something more, but, 011 a (ign from
madam Elizabeth (he desisted.
" At fix o'clock yesterday evening the
charges exhibited against Louis XVI.
were read in the Convention.—The prin
cipal articles are as follow :
1. The interruption of the proceedings
ofthe National Constituent Afiembly on
$e 10th of June 1789.
2. The calling in of foreign tronps.
3- TheinlurreGion ofjales.
4- The maflacre at Nancy.
J. The corruption of the members of
the Legiflatnre.
6. The flight of Louis to Varennes.
7. His protest to the foreign courts a
gainst the reftri&ions on the sovereignty.
8. His paying, correfpondiug with, and
encouraging the Emigrants.
9- The mafTacre in the Champ de Mars.
10. The orders given at the Thuilleries
on the loth of August to fire upon the peo
ple.
"The guards at all the ports have been
quadrupled and all the inhabitants are in
vited to repair to their refpeftive feftions.
" The unfortunate Monarch is to be
brought to the bar at 11 o'clock tcr-mor
row morning.
' Thirty members of the council gene
. a f e tH surround the carriage in which
tne ci-d?vaat king is to repair to the Con
vention.
File mayo;' ic to fit by his fide, and the
P-'ocureiir and fe<;retary of the commune
aro he pi. iced opposite him.
" Nin: v >'i p uroles are to parade the
city mall pj!]Hile directions.
" General Anfelm's ran guard ha- £ lin
cd i vicl ); y over the troop? of the king of
Sardinia, and takep pofTefiictn of their camp
Theprifoners amsuut to no more than
thirty.
"M. Egalite (M- d'Orleans), pnhlifhed
nil Monday lafl a proclamation, declaring,
that he forever renounced all claim to
Royalty."
Extract of a Letter from Corke, Nov. 25.
" .Within this week very alarming
and desperate riots have happened in thi -
rty and its viciniti'e:. Tlie dearnefs of
provifio is, and the larg? quantities of
jraii*exported, have caused various mobs
to ailemble, for the purpose efp.-e* ,'nting
the further exportation of wheat and flour .
" At Bandon, a body of ;oco people
met, and committed cpnfklerablc depre
dations on the farmers, whom they suspect
ed of monopoly. The mills of Sampson
Stawile, F.fq are razed to the ground.
1 liefe ig:ior nit people destroyed this im
mense building, under the pretence of die
proprietor being in exporter of flour.
" They next proceeded to Castle Ber
nard, in the fame neighbourhood!, and
threatened to blow i.p the Cattle, which
they declared tl>ey would have done, ex
cept in compliment to the lut'e Mr. Ber
nard. Young Mr. B. sent a flag of truce
to the mob and offered, if they would de
part, to diflritiute one thonfar.d guineas
among them. Thi they dec lined, observ
ing they were reformers, and not public
plunderers, like their rulers.
J' From thence they paraded to the town
oi Bandon, where they were received bv
the P. ovoit and a troop of dragoons. The
magistrate declared.that the military fliould
Sre if they did not inflantly dilperfe ; but
'he reply was that the firft (hot fired fliould
>e the signal for the 1110b to cut off the
Provofl's head ! Order is at lengtii reffored
iU the neighbourhood of Bandon.
"In Corke we are extremely alarmed;
the mobs here have dethoyed the mills
of Mr. Burke, and have emptied all the
jranaries of the corn and flour laid up for
exportation. They vow vengeance also
igainft the mills of Mr. Penrofe, at Gian
ni ire, and seem to despise the military
power. In these riots, the bellowing of
the multitude evinced that they have tlirn
:d t<> politics, rfnd that Ireland
IS nut destitute of a vail number of repub
lican spirits even among the rabble. The
Union, the Boyne, and the True Blue Vo
lunteers, are day and night under arms."
The whole duchy of Savoy is new, at
the requefl of its inhabitants, andfev a e'en
equent decree' of the National Conven
tion, annexed to the republic of France, as
»n 84th department, under the name of the
department of Mount Bfanc—The Liegois
are also about to the Convention
to be united to France as an Bjth depart
ment—A large body of Dumourier'a armv
is before Maeftricht, and a body of French
troops has arrived at Aix la Chapeile—
the Empress of Russia has demanded recbo
troops and 6 (hips of the line, of th<=
Swedes,to act in the spring as auxiliaries—
the request was refufed, unless Ruflia is fir ft
attacked by a foreign power—On the 2d
of December the Heflians and Pruflianr.
took Frankfort, and some French troops
therein, amounting it is said to 1500.—0n
the Bth, four French frigates and as many
cutters entered the port of Antwerp— -The
Dutch have avowedly given up all idea of
contending either by arms or nepociaticn,
for the exclusive right to the navigation of
tne Scheld. fa new confederation is on
foot at Warsaw, in Poland, for re-eiiab
lifhing the constitution of iMay ;d. i-qj.
They rely on the French for afliftance —
Accounts are received that the queen of
Portugal died on the 3d of December]
When the French frigates, &c. entered
the Scheld, to convoy stores to Antwerp,
the Dutch took protefls againfl their pas
sage, but did not attempt to oppose them
by force. There are also three English
frigates in the Scheld.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
W'ednesdav, Feb. 6.
After reading and referringfeveral peti
tions, including one from the officers of the
Rhode-Iflar.d line of the army, which was
laid on the table—the following bills were
read a third time, and parted, viz. a bill for
fettling the accounts of T. Wifhart, late a
lieutenant in the army— a bill for adjusting
a claim of Joseph Henderfon against the
United States—a bill exempting the inha
bitants ofPofl St. Vincennes from expen
ces of a refnrvey—and a bill to reimburse
H. E. Lutterlohfor his expences in com
ing to America to join the army. The
House then, in committee of the whole,
took up Mr. Greenup's resolution for pla
cing on thepenfion lift, such militia officers
and prtv a f CS as ma y woll nde<! in the pub
lic lervice, and are not otherwise provided
l or —ifter Come debate, the resolu
tion was ljiodified byjcaving blanks for the
day and year from Wnicli the disability of
Inch officer; or soldiers may be dated —the
queltion was then put and agreed to, with
an additional resolution, ascertaining the
nature and degree of the disability, and the
annual allowance to be granted for the
fame. The committee rose and reportec
the two resolutions, which were adopted
and a committee appointed to report a bill
A bill was then reported from the commit
tee appointed, for compensating the Presi
dent and Vice Prelident of the Unitet
States. Read twice and committed foi
to-morrow—.twobills were reported, en
rolled ;:iid signed by the Speaker; the firft
'or regulating the value of foreign coins
the oßher. the foreign intercourse bill—
report of the Secretary of War was reac
on the petition of Simeon Thayer, late :
major in the army, and disabled by a wounc
received in the battle of Monmouth—th<
following resolution on this fubjeft wa
agreed to ; tiiat upon returning his com
mutation of half pay, with the interelt tha
has accrued, he (hall be allowed the hal:
pay of a major roni the firft of January
i "Si—a committee was appointed to brim
11 a bill accordingly. The report on the
petition of Elijah Boftwick, was ngreec
10, and a bill orderedto be brought in—Or
the question for palling the bill to compen
sate John Tucker, it was determined in
the negative.
ThursdAy, Feb. f.
.4 ItifflTage was received from the Senate,
that they concur in the resolution lor a
ioint committee to count the ballots from
lie. executives of the Several ftatesfor Pre
ident and Vice-President of the United
itates—and have appointed a committee
of threefor that purpose reading
wo petitions lor compensations for
military fervicesrendered (tvhich were re
vrred to the Secretary at War) a refolu
ion was laid on the table by Mr. Clark,
.hat a committee be appointed to bring in
i bill for regulating tees in the Treasury
jffice Mr transferring public fecurlties.—A
eport v .is then read from a committee on
he petitions of several persons concerned
n the manufacture of cordage, lines,
wines, and pack-thread—The report was
avourajjle to the petitioners, and referred
:o a coihmittee of the whole, to-morrow.
The House, in committee of the whole
lifcufleti the bill for compensating the Pi e-
Ident apd Vice-President of the United
States.—Several small amendments were
made yhe blank for the President's annu-
I fa!: .vallied tip V.irtl 25,660 dollars ;
Mr. Kitchell moved, the insertion of
lollarsper day to the Vice-Prelident, dur
ing his attendance in the Senate, instead of
dollars per annum : this motion was
afterwards withdrawn, and the last blank
illed up \vithsooo dollars.—The bill was
:fieu r< ported with amendments, and
igreed to by the House—Mr. Mercer re
lewed his motion for limiting the bill to
'our years from the third of March one
:l otifaud seven hundred and ninety-three
—after a long debate on this motion, the
peas and nays being called, it was deter
ninedinthc negative—Yeas, 27 ; Nays 33-
Several bills were read twice and commit
rc,d for to-morrow—a report was read,
avourable to the petition of Robert Hea
:on. r o • Jemnify him for duties on cattle
and (lock imported from England ; and a
:ommittee was appointed to report a bill.
A report was also read, favourable to cer
tain petitioners in Newark New-Jersey,
praying compensation for an academy de
flroypd bv lire, during the war—on a mo
tion that the committee Ihonld agree to the
report, the question being put, it paCcd in
tha negative.
Friday, Feb. 8.
Rill for relieving Elijah Boftwick, read
twice and committed for next Monday—
the bill for compensating the Prelident and
Vice-President of the United States, read
a third time and pafl'ed—A memorial from
the officers 01 the lateSouth-Carolina line,
for further compensation, &c. was read
and laid 011 the table.
The House, in committee of the whole,
then took up the bill for granting half pay,
lor a certain term of years to the widows
and orphans of the officers who have been
killed since the day of or fliail be
hereafter killed in.thefervice of the United
-States—The term of years was limited to
five, and the latter blank filled up with
March 4, 1 784 —7"he bill was then report
ed with a few additional amendments—
T he motion for appointing a committee to
bring in a bill for elrablifliing fees for the
transfer of flock, in the Treasury office,
was agreed to and a committee appointed.
A petition was read, from the town of
1 xorfofkin Virginia, praying provision to
be made for lick and infirm seamen—and
referred to a committee of the whole
Mr. Smith notified the House that on next
Monday lie should renew the motion for
providing for the redemption of the pub
lic debt.—A mefTage was received from
the Senate, not:fyiijg their concurrence in
the bill for fettling claims not heretofore
barred by any r.a of limitation, with one
amendment.—The bill relative to fugi
tives froni jnltice, and abftonding servants,
was reported duly enrolled.—The bill for
relieving W. and J. Simms from payment
of duties on a cargo loft in coming round
from New-York to this place, was taken
up in committee of the whole, but on the
question of being engrossed, was loft—
A meifjge from the Senate, fignifving their
concurrence in the coaftiiig bill, with
amendments, and non-concurrence in the
North Carolina boundary bill.
PHILADELPHIA.
February 13.
The accounts from England, brought by
the last packet, seem to leave us in doubt
whether a war is seriously meditated a
gainst the revolution of France and the
progress of liberty on the continent, or
whether their preparations and proceed
ings are secretly meant to ftrfle the rifmff
spirit of their ewn people, and over-awl
the remonstrants of Scotland and T f-land
Whichever may be their purp< an d
particularly if it fnould bethel-, er the
government ought not to be lurpnzcd' if a
new ftimttlns lhould be given to the public
uneafinef:, and to the demand of reforms
in every department where abuses have e
qually excited fobcr animadversion and pc
ptilar clamour. In one particular the in
formation is fingnlarly remarkable. The
only mobs we are told of are on the fide of
government, and are warring an-ainft their
own rights and those principles of political
equality which constitute the best, and of
ten the only property of a large part of the
society.
from this, as well as other circumftancesrf
we may expect that liberty v. 'll find r l0 rc?
obstacles to a complete Triumph in fritain
than any where else He, partial enjoy
ment of it, and the pride inspired by com
parative prosperity. willhave a ftrone ten
dency to keep her stationary at her prefcilt
point °f mediocrity ; and it will not be
wonderful if the nation, which has hither* '
Co beenthe ireeftin 1-urope, should ere
long, be the last to yield to the spirit rf re
generation now pervading Eunjpe and
perhaps the globe, and be belov. 4ery o
her nation in the scale of liberty prefpe
rity, andtrne greatnefa. Her chairs be
ing lighter (he is the less anxious to eft
them off, or perhaps because they ;>re -ilt
over, she may even hug and be vain"of
snein. The Clnnefe, who have lona bee:'
naif civilized, is the nation, more than all
others, opposed to illumination aid im
provement.
« Our p.ibJio affairs (fay letter W
England) are in a very critical filiation ;
government is greatly alarmed, and has
mmmoned suddenly the parliament : great
facrifices must be made before the ferment,
is allayed, pensions and salaries reduced,
sinecures abolinied, parliament reformed
by a far moie equal reprefer.tation \
church preferment more equalized, and a
variety of objects to be embraced, highly
proper to have bee effefled half a centu
ry back—we are all alarme;—all anxiety ;
all Europe is occupied with the affairs of
I'ranee, and much of it is ready to fol
low her in her career to Liberty—funds
arefalJen here prodigiously from the ex
ertions our government is making in war
like A double number of
soldiers areftationed at the bank, the mi
litia are held in readiness, the touer is
strongly guarded, the cannon iix d on the
old walls, besides new tv-i'ls built to
strengthen it—orders are continually fend
ing for equipping squadrons and fliips of
war at the sea ports, and a very confidcr
able number are already in commission
mobs have risen in fcveral parts of
land, Scotland, and Ireland ; in
mollly on the fide of government anc ,rt
Scotland and Ireland on the iide of the
people."
Thomas pjine, member of the French
Convention, has had his trial for a libel a
gainil the government of Great-Britain,
of which the jury found himguilty without
leaving the court.
On Monday the 4th in ft ant the Senat?
of the United States re-agitated the ques
tion of opening the doors of the Senate
chamber—when the yeas and nays were a®
fcilow :—[and not as infeited erroneous
ly in our last)
Tear.—Messrs. Brown, Burr, Gunn,
Hawkins, King, Butler, Edwards, Mon
roe, Potts and Taylor— 10,
Nays- Messrs. Bafl'ett, Bradley, Cabot,
Dickinfon, Elfworth, Fcfter, Henry,
Johnfton, Izard, Langdon, Morris, Read,
Robinson, Rutherford, Sherman, Stanton,
Strong, and Wingate—lß.
So it was again loll—and the PEO
PLE are to remain ignorant of the pro
ceedings of their Senators, for a season
longer!
*** articles of intel
ligence are deferred to our next.Conclusion of Mr. Boueiwot's Spscch
in the House of Reprefcntatives, on
Monday January 14,011 the petitions of
the officers of the late army for further
comper.fition.
[Continuedfrom No. ijj.]
< vent proved the truth of tie
A fuppiJition, and the value of the
funded debt at one time rose to 2 ;s, on th_
pound on 6 percent, w-hiie loans have been
made by the United Stales, at from 4 to
5 percent. Congrefsthen §ave a ccrtainty
of 6 per cent, for a number of years, on
the terms of the loans for a partial reduc
tion for 10 years, and a kfs interest on the
arrears of interest then due. This was
certainly a full and generous equivalent,
End the only advantage gained by the pub
he, was a modification of the debt, by
». hich the burthen would be divided, and
the increased number of citizens during
14 or 15 years, would bear their propor
tion of f e expence of a war, in the benefit
of which they so eflentialiy participated.
At the time rf funding the pub'ic debt the
i'redeemable quality was confulered 33 a
full equivalent,and 3 compliance with the
public faith. Mr. B. alledged [hat he was
then a public creditor, and confulered it in
that point of light. lie was a creditor
tint had a right to feel a loss as much as
any man.—He was 1 creditor of 1776,
wlun the army could notbeTent toCana
da without hard money.— He was a cre
ditor in 1777) when the prisoners were
per'fh ng for want of food anJ cloathing,
and the government could not furnifh a
finale suit, or a tolerable ftipply for their
exirsnie distress—lie was a creditor of
1778. when, at the Valley Forge, the
tracks of the fuldie'rs were marked with
flood for want of (hoes, which he colleited
Ln different parts of the ftnte by his own
e':e!tiort, and at h sown ex pence without
fee or rcwirri ; 11 ! was not repaid till
1779. —He was t large creditor of 1779,
v.hen Congic-fs fert to all parts of the U
rion, earuc!'.!calling on the friends of
their country to come forward with loans
for the publ 0 exigencies ; and he was a
creditor as an officer of the anny, in which
he had served. Under this vew of tiie
fubjeifl, Mr. B. ack lowledged that he had
entertained great jea - ulles, left some othe
end was airrud at by the prefe.u reLlu
tion, than the olteniible one ; this was
raised when he heard gentlemen found the
success of the resolution on the fav ngs
made by the funding system, when those
gentlemen had for years pall been conti
nually representing that fyllem as founded
on an extravagant wufte of public treasure:
That the irredeemabdity of the debt was
n tax on the govern rent, which ought
rievtr to have bc:n admitted, as monies
might have been loaned at 4 per cent and
by that means one thiid of the debt saved
to the union : What ideas then mull we
form of a icfolution calculated to raise the
hopes of the memorialists, which in the
end would certainly turn out a mere sha
dow and worse than a fliadow ; this really
was trifling with the complaints of our fel
low citizens. There had been no fairings,
the creditors who had pofftfiion of the
public contra&s, had received a full equi
valent for their demand by their own free
consent, at 20s. in the pound ; where then
was room for a demand on the government
for any Giving? It there was a foundation for
clai.p, it mull be againll the pofTefTors of
the certificates, but however jult it might
be, it was merely illusory to form the reso
lution on principles that had no exigence.
The losses fullained by the line of the
army, were not peculiar to them as credit
ors of the United States. All classes of
citizens who had generously advanced their
money for the support of this very army in
food, cloathing, arms and ammunition, as
well as that of the government itfelf at
home and abroad, had been equal fufferers,
without the emolument that the army had
received, in the moll distressing times of
the war. The army had been a refuge for
many gentlemen driven from their homes,
while other citizens were obliged to wander
for a considerable time without employ or
relief. He continued his observations to
other citizens who had fuffered during the
war, and particularly mentioned the fuf
ferers at falmouth, Charles-Town, New-
York, Norfolk, York-Town, and South-
Carolina, as those who were of the fir ft
clals in the United States; as also the
aged, the widowa, and the orphan credi
tors, who had fuffered without receiving
any advantage whatever from the public
bounty.
Mr. B. then proceeded to consider the
piacticability of themeafure, supposing its
equality and juflioe to be fairly ellablifhed
As the app ication was now founded on
tie savings on each man's individual cer
tificate, the principal equally reached eve
ry public creditor. Suppose then A. B.
C. D. and E. fold their certificates toge
ther ; A. fold his at 6/8 in the pound to
riife a capital to purchase public lands,
which at one time in this city fold at 6d
per acre. B. fold his certificate at a/6 in
tlie pound, to keep a wife and children
from llarving. C. fo'd his to raise a ca
pital to go into the fpectilaling line, !)■
fold on one day from neceflity, but repla
ced it the next day and kept it, till the
funding system took place, and then fold
at 20/ in the pound, while E. having con
fidence in the government, and not under
a nccefTity of felling, funded it under the
present system. How could a discrimina
tion take place here, or would it be fair e
qually to remunerate all these original
ho'ders ? but suppose some had fold at 2oj
and also had received all the emoluments
of the Pennsylvania line, where t would bt
the dillributive justice of the rueaime now
proposed. If you extend th s dodtiine to
the public creditor* at large, it will appear
it) a llrange point of light. It is well
known that the common pradtice of the
government during the war, was to ifTue
certificates iti fictitious names, the names
of clerks in office, of heads cf depart
ments, or other persons, merely to make
them answer the purpose of a paper cur
rency : As they were payable to bearer,
the name was never thought to be mate
rial. The person do ng the service or
lending his money, received these certifi
cates, and was really the original holder :
yet the face of the certificate spoke a dif
ferent language. In this cafe a discrimi
nation would be impossible, and much the
largest part of the public debt was con
tracted in this way. After the war was
over, many del.ti had been paid by mer
chants and others to their foreign credi
tors and others, in certificates at their no
minal value, and in other cases individuals
had failed, and the loss wholiv fallen on
their creditors.
Mr. B udinot earned!)- contended that
tl-e fxpence of * discrimination would ex
ceed the revenues cf the United
The nature of transferable Hock, which is
deligned to operate as current (noney,
forbids the idea of a difcriminatioji, and
all public credit mull uecefTarily fail if such
a do&rine was to prevail in the finances of
the union This was a very ferions and
important idea, worthy the attention of
the applicants, who certainly were inter
e!ted in the public weal. The right of
freemen to d fpofe of their own property
as they plcafe, was involved in th'e ques
tion ; for if the government was td make
up every loss on a transfer, then it'ought
not to be made without their confertt.
Mr. Boudinot 1 oped he would not be
underflood to deny either the service* or
the ftifFerings of the army ; but he slledg
ed the promised recompence was given,
which had been transferred with all the le
gal and equ'table right to the holder who
had received from gove nment the full va
lue, and therefore no further demand ei
ther in law, or equity,remained against the
government. The negotiable quality was
i principle in the securities inilled on by
the army, and which they had exercised as
they chose, for different purposes, and
from different views. He acknowledged,
that the generosity, benevolence, and hu
manity of Congress had been adilreffed :
To this he answered that they were but
llewards of the people's property, fer
which they were answerable. That they
were notfent heretofliow their generosity;
it was to do justice, and that not to one
1 lass, but to every description of citizens.
He knew of but one rule for every citizen
of the United States. They were all e
qually represented in that house—but at
all events it became them to be just before
they were generous. Mr. B. assured the
house that he had taken up so much of
their time, because he found that no one
had come forward fairly to meet the ques
tion, and he had too great a regard for
the memorialists to wish them to go away
under the idea that any thing had been
refufed to them which ought in proprie.
ty to have been done. At any rate he
had candidly and above board given the
reasons of his vote on this important oc
casion, which would be against the ques
tion proposed by the gentleman fron Vir
ginia.
PRICE CURRENT.
A Dollars. Cents
**-SHES, pot per ton 9cd/oicc(!
pearl ditto 13-d to 1401'
Bacon, flitches per lb 8c
shoulders do 7 C
Beet, Boston per barrel 7<l to 8<
Country do 6Atoy>.
Beer, American in bottles
including bottles per doi. id Bck
ditto per barrel 5 C ' 33'
Bees wax per lb 26c 28c
Brandy, Coniac per gal 83c 93c
common do 75c 82<
Butter in kegs per lb 12c 13;
Uheefe, Country per lb 8c 101
Engliih 19<
Chocolate 18c 20<
-oal, per bushel 20c 221
-odfifh per cvvt 3d 501
Coffee per lb 16c 17c
•opperas percwt id 671
-ordage, American per cwt 7d 67c 8c
"otton per ib 26c 35c
' lax per lb 131
'laxfeed per bush 90c id ice
r'lour, Superfine per barrel scl 671
Common 12 <
Bur-midlings, bed: 4d jc<
Meal Indian 3d 101
Rye, do 3d 33c
jin, Holland per cafe 4d 33c
per gallon 80c 87 c
TJinfenj, 20c 24c
Gunpowder, Fine glazed per q c 41]
Li rain, Barley perbnlhel id id 31
Beit (helled per lb 31
Buckwheat per bufliel 40c
Indian corn 531
ferfey, do 57 <
Oats 351
Rye (ios
Wheat id 9c
Hams per lb 10c 1 ic
Kemp, imported per ton i2cd 14M 67c
American per Ib 4c j<
Hides, raw per lb 9c 1 ic
Hops 27c
Honey per lb 4c
Indigo, Carolina per lb id id 20c
French ul2oc id 53c
Iron, Bar per ton 911
Cartings per cwt 3d 47c
Nail-rods per ton nod nr<
Pig 24c! 26<1 67c
Sheet 173 d 33<
Iron?, fad 133 33<
Lard, hogs per Ib 10c in
Leather, f'oal per lb 14c 17c _o<
Myrtle wax per lb I2<
MolafTes per gallon 53c 571
Mustard, flower, in bot. perdoz id 201
feconcl quality, perdoz 871
N-iils, 8d lod 12d and zed per lb ioi
Oil, Liifeed per gallon _ :
Olive 8 7 <
per cafe 2d 501
Pepper per lb 381
Pimento 18c i9<
Pitch per bbl id 73c 2c
Porter per cask jd 331
London perdoz id 6o<
Amer. bot. inclu. id 4c id 6o<
Pork, Burlington, per bbl led 67c 11c
Lower county 10c
Carolina 9c
Rice percwt « 2d 88<
Rum, Antigua per gal ic
Barbadoes 871
Country, N.E. 65c 67c
Jamaica id -t
Saltpetre percwt 14c! 33c
Salt, Allum, per bulb 441
Cadiz 33 c
Lisbon 37c
Liverpool 47c
Snake root per lb 20c 421
Snuff, per doz. bottles 4d sc! 60c
per lb 33c 40c
Soap, Brown per ib (a
White 8c
Starch per lb 7c
Sugar, Havannah, white, per lb 17c 18c
Brown 11c 12 c:
Muscovado percwt 13d ijcl
Lump per lb 24c
Loaf, single refined, 25c
double ditto, 36c
Tallow, refined, per lb 9c
Tar, Newjerfey 24 gal per bbl 1 c
Carolina, 32 gal id 33c id 67c
Tea, Hyson per lb 93c id 28c
Souchong 50c 93c
Bohea 3jc 36c
Tobacco, Jamesßiver, best 3d toe 73c
Inferior 3d 33c
Old 4(1 67c
Rappahannock 3d 33c
Coloured Maryland 33c Bc]
Dark 2cl 40c
Long-leaf 2 d 40c
F.aftern-fhore ->d 2d 23c
Carolina, new 2d 7c 3d
Old 3d 33c
Turpentine per bbl d 67c 2c!
Wine, Madeira,p. P. 176 c! 200d , 526d 67c
Lilbon l'33d^3c
TenerifFe per gal " (, 7C
Sherry id toe.
Those gentlemen, in different parts of the
Union, who hold
SUBSCRIPTION PAPERS FOR THE
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
Are requeftfei to make recurns of the fubferi
bers' names as soon as convenient—
Mcflrs. the Printers, alio, cvho have, at my
■ equeft, published the proposals, will plrafe to fend
in their refjiefliveaccounts. JOHN CAREY,
No. 16, Pear-Street, Philadelphia.
Terres a Vendre
Dans un pais Lien ptuple,—
S AVOIR, foixantecinq mille, trois cens, fofa?,
ante ct quatorze Acre: y en une fe&le piece
dans le canton le mieux peuple de la Caroline Mr,
ridionale, leDiftii&de Ninety-Six. Ces tcrre
font fituees dans une contrce agreable, et falobre
ou les fievres font inconnuesj a environ vingt lieues
de Colombie, la Capitale, et contigu'es ala vills
de Cambridge, eu rl y a College, ct Cour fuperi
eure. A environ douze lieues, i 1 y a bonne nave
gation ; et il eft trcs probable, que dans quelqui
terns on r<ndra navigable le Grand Sa'lude, rivitre
qui arrofe les terres meir.es. Elles font agreable
ment diverfifiees de coteaux et vallons charman®
propres a la culture du tabac, du coton, du mai's,
et du petit grain ; et dont une propoition confider
able'fe peut aifement convertir en prairies ferti.'es,
ilneeft peut-etre gueres poflible de rencontrerupe
pjrej Ile piece de terre a vendre dans aucun autre
des Etats Unis jet pour les conditions de l'ach aC
on les rendra tres commodest. *
S'informer a l'impiimene de la Gazette Na
tionale. Sept. 5.
LANDS for SALE,
IN a well fettled Country. SIXTY-FIVE"
THOUSAND HUNDRED ANIT'
bEV't NT Y. FOUR MRES OF LAND, in one
bcdy, in the most populous part of the state of
South-Carolina, in thedilbifl of Ninety-fix---It
is situated in a fine healthy climate,free from fever
& ague,about sixty miles from Columbia, the feat
of government. The land is contiguous to the
town of Cambridge, where are a seminary so the
inftruftion of ycuth, and a fu.perior law couif. It
is at present within about thirty-five miles of good
navigation, wiih a probability of having the river,
cal'ed the Great Saluoa, that flrws along one fid's
ot the land, made navigable. The land is beauti -
fuiiy diveifified into swells and vales, and is per
fectly well calculated for the cultuie of tobacco,
cotton, Indian corn, and fin all grain j a great
proportion be made meadew ground.
Theie is nor, perhaps, such a body of land, focif
cumftanced, ror sale in any ether of the U. States.
The terms of payment will be made convenient to
the purchaser or purchafeis. Ap(.ly to the Prir ler.
Augull 291 rawtf
Philadelphia, January 12, 1793.
MATHEW CAREY
Refpeciiully informs the Citizens of the
United States, that the Mapsfor his
intended edition of
Guthrie's Geography*
I M PROVE i>,
Are now engraving-— ard as soon a■> a fuflicrent
number of them are linifhed, to fee are a regular
fopply during ihe publication,w hich will proba
bly be farly next the wo;k will be put
to ptefs.
He returns his acknowledgments to the very
refpedlable number of fubferibers, who havecome
forward thus early to patiorize this arduous un
dertaking. He allures ihe.m and the public in
general, that no pain* or **pt&Oce ibail ka faftied ; fi
the cxetiKion of the vv -t'c.
Tern's r.f. the Jf'crk :
I. IT (hall be pui iilhed in 4S weekly num
bers, each containing three .h eis, or twenty.four
pages, of letter prels, in quai to,.printed with new
cvpes on line paper.
H. In the courfc of the work will be delivered
about thirty laige maps, of the fame P.ze as those
in the Eutopean editions, viz. molt of them
maps on port paper.
the tr.2ps in the Britifb Editica*
this ivork nil contain n'.r.e tr tun American States
Maps.
HI. The price of each number will ue a quar
ter dollar, to be paid on delivery.
No advance required.
1\ . Suolciibefs vvh• > disapprove of the work,
on the publication of the three firlt numbers, are
to be at liberty to return them, and {hail hav«
their money repaid.
V. The lublcribcrs* flia)l be prefixed aa
patrons of the undertaking."
*+ * Subscriptions received in Philadelphia by
the intended publisher ; iir New-york, iiy aII the
bookfeliers ; in New-Haven, by M . Beers : in
Hart fold, by Mr. Fatten j in Bolton, l>y 'Mef-*
Thomas and Andrews, and bv Mr. We it j in
Baltimore, by Mr. Rae $ in Richmond, by f,*r.
J. Carey ; in Charlelton, by Mr, W P. Young,
and by sundry other, pei lons throughout the Uni
ted States. lawtf
Philadelphia New- York
S 1' AGES,
BY WAY OF
BURLINGTON, BORDEN7ON> & SOUT'T
AM nor—
start from r'j Ferry, oppo
. fire to Philadelphia, every Sunday and Wed
nefJay morning, during the winter fe.-t >n, and
arrive at South-Amboy on Monday, and 1 huifd.iy
evenings—where a good boat will be ran to cot* •
vey Goods and Paflengeis to New-Yoik.
The Stage boats will leave New York every
Monday and Thur/day, so a-; to meet the Stages
from Philadelphia at Amboy, to proceed for Phi
ladelphia next day. Ail 'Jage U
paHengernto be at their own rilcjue. A
All Goods forwarded by the Stages on bill, To
be under the particular care of tn? Proprietors of
the Stages j but not warranted against robbery or
damage —And all entering, and permits-,
to be paid by the owners of gpods.
Price of a frc m Cooper's ferry to New*
York, - £0. IS. 9#
2Colb. of Goods, to pay the price or a
All Way palTer.grrs, 3d per mile.
AMOS HUTCH IN, and >Forfe}irl;rg-
NICHOLAS SCHENCK, 5 t. n line.
VAN EMBL' RG H & M«KEAN,7 .or Borden
and DAVID WILLIAMSON, 3 ton line.
January 16, 1793. [law. eiv,
PRINTED BY
CHI LD S and 8 W AINE,
AT THEIR 07PICE N0.20q, HIGH &TAEE f>
NEAR FIFTH-STRE
PHI LADE; fhlAi