[NuMB.2 2ofVoL.il.] SATURDAY, January 12, 1793.
[The following is copiedfrom the Genera!
Advertiser. and infertcd at the particular
rcquefl of jeveral of our fulfcribers j
To Thomas Jcfferfon. a free citizen and
Secretary of the United States.
Fellow Cit i zkm,
AS a freeman, sincerely interefled in
the welfare of my country, 1 am
bound to addfefs you. Your republican
principles and deportment put me at ease
on the fcoie of this address; for although
I have not the pleaftire of being perfon
s,lly known to you, I am convinced from
the general terror of your conduit, that
you will liltcH to the voice of every free
man, however objeure he may be, or how
ever deficient in what is lately termed
consequence, provided he comes forward
to you recommended by honed princi
ples, republican conduit, and love for his
country. As an individual I have no
thing to a(k, for thanks to my God, ai;
independent profeffion has removed nu
from th?.t state of pioditution whfch is ne
ceffary to a courtier : As a citizen oftht
United States* in common with my fel
low citizens- I have a claim upon you ■
a claim which as a friend to your coun
try you cannot refufe—lt cannot be ne
cessary to inform a man of your enlig! t
ened pattiotifm, that when your coun
try needs your fervice3, as a confident pa
triot you cannot withhold them ; the du
ly you owe her cannot be furrendercd ai
p'eafure —It was with the fincereft emo
tions of distress, I heard that you intendec
again to seek the peaceful (hades of pri
vate life, to foUce yourfelf with your fa
vourite philosophy, and leave to anothe.
pilot the helm of date. Tempefhwua si
the Tea upon which you have embarke,
has been made for you, the profpeft ai
length is smiling, the dark vapouts o:
ariflocracy are difTolving, and propitioui
gales are arising to waft you and your vef
fel into a haven of security. The ere«
are your friends, and notwithftandii>£
the endeavours of the officers to raise i
mutiny, to fupercede you, and have th.
management entirely to themselves, youi
honed labours and firmnefs have fruflratec
their wicked intentions, and you ride tri
tynphant. True merit is modell; I ant:
cipate your reply, that there are man}
characters in the United States who hav<
equalcapacily and integrity for the talk ;
if the ravings of patriotism can be re
ceived as a criterion, no doubt w<
have i but it is a melancholy truth, thai
offices have changed the current of prin
ciple, and ofaftion, and that few or nom
who have filled them have been able tc
withstand the temptation to domineer
which their fancied exaltation above tin
sovereign, the people, bns given them—
The unify of your conduit; your dignifi
edand republican simplicity ; your enmi
ty to fadidious didance and reserve ; youi
refpeft for the people, are fubjeits o
affection and commendation, and ough;
to be of imitation to every man who i;
the friend of equality. Ihefe, fir, make
your refignstion to be deplored ; these
fir, make your successor to be dreaded—
At present you appear to be the colofTw
of opposition to monarchical deportment,
monarchical arrogance, and vwnarchi£6,,
J'plendor ; but were you withdrawn, mo
narchy and aridociacy like an inundati
on, would overflow our country. —A
continuance of your example will appa
N4he enemies to equality ; for as long ai
the public mind has a distinguished repsb
lican to fix its eye upon to contrad with
the gaudy infects of a monarchical fun,
their love for republicanism, and detec
tion of inequality will incrcafe, 'till those
pestilential animals shall cease to contami
nate the atmolphere of liberty—The peo
ble are already alarmed,—they fee oflen
tation displayed where they lead expec
ted it; they fee [lately superiority a/Tu
rned where they looked for equality and
simplicity ; they behold the glare of mo-
By P. FRENEAU: Publijkld Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Tiirke Doli-ars per annum.
narchy where they imagined they should
find nought else but republican plainness ;
so true it is that when the exaltation of
ambition is gratified, its concomitants
mud receive their (hare of the feaft——But,
Sir, the veil is almost rent which over
spread the eyes of the people—what
they have viewed with the eye of affec
tion, they begin to examine with the eye
of republicanism, and soon will the tide
of popular opinion begin to ebb from
that channel where it flowed like a tor
rent, unless elementary principles andJirjl de
clarations are resorted to as the standard of
conuuA—The conspiracy again (I you by
a minijltrial and arijlecratic faction y who
leek their own aggrandisement at the
expence of the dearest iuterefts of their
country,has only served to endear you to
yourcountry; fortruft me,fir,that man on
ly deserves and will obtain the lasting af
fedlion of his countrymen, who conliders
their interest as inseparable from his own.
Let Catullus rave, [a little incrcafe in the
disturbance of his intdlcds will make him
i duke or a /-;«§■] let him wage war against
you with all his royal and fycophant'ic
of the Treafuryat his heels,you may smile
it his drawn dagger and defy its point ;
ihe armour of virtue will ever defend you
lgainft the affeflinations of vice; you live
n the hearts of all true Americans, and
:he dagger mutt pass through their hearts
before you can be deft•■oyed—-Let not the
serfecution which has beer, raised againil
pou operate on you to retire : the acu-
Tien of calumny is spent, and s recoiling
jpon its author —you are approved by
(rcur country and th»s mull rob envy and
lander of their fling—But if von are
efolverl, *I»e ~nod \viih« f f every frier.d
o mankind must attend you ; and while
[ regret a refolntion which is a real evil
o my country, I moll sincerely hope that
lealth, peace, and content may be the
:on(lant attendants of your retirement.
MIRABEAU.
January 3, 1793.
FOREIGN AFFA IR S.
PARIS, Nov. 13.
ExtraS from Gen. Dum'jitis :cttef to tht
National Convention, giving a fiOrticu
lir account oj the battle with ihc /.nj
trians, on the 6th oj November.
" IN the morning I ordered out II
pieces of cannon 16 pounders, 12 twelv<
pounders, and 12 howitzer*, to be planted
along the front of my line. Genera
i'Harville, polled on the lieights of Ci
phy, flanked the enemy's left, whiiil I at
tacked the right, taking from them agair
the village cfCarignon bythe Belglc corps
supported by nine battalions under tht
command of M.jors Central Ferrand,
Roziere, and Bloifiere. The centre ol
the attack composed of jR battalions, was
under the command of lieutenant Gene
ral Egalite (the eldell son of the Duke
of Orlean ) and Majors General Staten
bolfr, Deslorets, and Drouets. Ihe
right, contilling of the advanced guard,
was commanded by Lieutenant Genera;
Bournonville and Major Gemral Dampi
erre. Gener.il d'Harville could afllfk us
in the attack, only with his cannon, his
division being at too g'eat a dillance from
the enemy's entrenchments, to be able tc
engage.
" The Austrian army, on the lowett
computation, confided of 20,C00 men.
viz. 16,500 foot and 3,500 horse—Others
ellimatcd their numbers at 28,000.
"We had not more than 30,000 fight
ing men. The position of the enemy
was truly formidable. Their right was
to the village of Genneppe, and their left
to the road leading to Valenciennes. Theii
whole was polled on a chain of heights,
overspread with clumps of trees; three
tiers of redoubts rose as in an amphithea
tre, one above another, maintaining in all
at least 20 pieces of heavy cannon, and as
many howitzers, whilll each battullion had
3 field pieces ; so that the enemy had neat
one hundred gun*, which they could bring
to bear upon us. We had as many to
play upon them. But the elevation of
their batteries would have given them a
great advantage over ours, it we had been
i Joked to riik the fate of the day upor,
our.vrtfllerv.
" My troops, full of confidence in their
awn bravery, had expressed to me their
most earnest wish to come to close action
ivith the Auftrians. I had entire confi
dence in their resolution, for in all the
movements which I had made them make
under the enemy's fire, I saw that they
-narched and went through the evolutions
is on a field day; but particularly on
he three preceding days, when I could
lot but admire the coolness and precision
with which they executed all the manoeu
vres which I had planned.
" A hot .cannonnade began on both
ides, at 7 o'clock in the morning, and
aftpd till ten ; at which time, I was not
ible to perceive that our success was
r uch as to make it eligible to confine my
felf to that fpccies of attack —Whilst I
irifited the different paits of my lhre, the
troops expressed their impatience to push
sayonets with the enemy. General Bour
nonville and General Egalite had repeat
idly proposed the fame measure. I re
trained their ardour, only, that I might
Dake its exertion the more vigorous :
: or it was my plan ultimately, to tlorm
:he redoubts. In the mean time, how
ler, I contented myfelf with ordering the
irtillery to be pushed nearer to the Auf
trians, that it might have the greater cf
;e£t ; and I ordered an attack upon the
, llage of Caiignon, because I could not
".ill upon G 1 nHi cope on that fide, withbui
being firll mailer of the village.
" I sent Colonel Thouvenot, my Adju
tant General, an offic r of the highelt
nerit, with orders to direst the attack, and
;arrv all the right flank of the enemy.
[ desired General d'Harville to advance
lis batteries nearer to them, that the great
:r execution might be made upon theii
eft. I ordered Gen. Bournonville to dc
he like, and be ready for the attack, pre
:ifrly at noon. I difpatchtd similar or
ders to the left, because I calculated we
hould by that time be mailers of Carig
ion, which it was necessary we fliouh
lave in our possession, as the left of ni}
ine attacked might be turned if that vil
age was to continue in the power of thi
;nemy.
" Precisely at twelve o'clock at noon
the whole of the infantry formed in co
umns in the tw : nkling of an eye, and ad
vanced with the greatest rapidity and a
lacrity towards the enemy's works ; noi
i fingleheadof a column remained be
lind.
" The firft tier of redoubts was imme
liately carried with the greatest vivacity
3uc soon the difficulties and obstacles en
sealing, the centre was in some danger
ind I law some of the enemy's horse rea
3y to enter the plain, to charge the co
umns in flank. I instantly difpatchec
thither Lieut. General Egalite, who, b)
lis cool bravery, quickly rallied the co
■umnß, and led thein to the second tier o.
redoubts. I ordered the third regiment
afChaffeurs, and the sixth of HulTars tc
support this attack, who arrived very a
pro-pos to make head againll, and charg(
the enemy's cavalry. I repaired at the
fame time to the tight, where I foxnc
that Gen. Bournonville,having turned ant
carried the redoubts, met with complett
success ; his horse had been thrown intc
some disorder, whilst he was busily em
ployed at the head of his infantry. I
quickly rallied them, and they inilantl)
charged with the greatest vigonr the ene
my's horse, who had already reached oui
right flank. Whilst c.ur cavalry was ral
lying, a body of the enemy's horse attemp
ed to break the Hi ft battalion of Pari;
volunteers, who received them with flea
[Total No. 126.]
dinefs, and with a (ingle discharge killed
sixty men !
" In the interval of this action on the
right, our left had carried the village of
Genneppe, and our centre had stormed
and taken the second tier of redoubts ;
we ft ill had another battle to fight before
we could become mailers of the iaft tier;
but it v?as neither as long or as hot as the
former ; the AulTriana being fiiled with
conllernation at the exploits performed by
the obllinate and (till encrealiog bravery
oT our troops.
«' At two o'clock they retreated in the
greatest disorder, leaving us in poflefuon
of the ground which they had occupied,
and which was covered with the killed of
both parties. Their loss was so consider
able, and their conflernation so great,
that they pafled through the city of Mons,
without once halting ; neither did tiiev
fialt at Berthomen, or Mount Palifele, or
:ven on the heights of Nieicy.
" I led the whole vi&oripui army to
:he height of the Village ofCufm 'S, where
[ placed some infantry, and found one
thirteen pounder. I colleded there fotr.e
wounded, and deferteis. The fame d3y
[ sent a detachment under Gen. d'Har
rilie, to take post on Mount Palifele, and
mother ur.der Gen. Stetenbolfe, to take
possession of Bartellement.
" I sent a summons to the city of Mons
:o surrender, and a parley took place, of
.vhich I inclose the particulars. The
:roops, though they had fearcely closed
m eye for three days, and had not been
ible to prepare any dinner 08 the day of
:his terrible battle, pretTed me nevertha
efs to let them march to Mons, and take
:he town by escalade. I told them they
llooid haT* that fatiefaitioo the r.-e.-.t day;
ind I accordingly took proper measures
r or completing the circumvallation of the
;ity, and attacking it in several places at
jnce. But ♦he enemy availed themselves
jf the night, and evacuate 1 it: the last
joo men of the garrison left it at nine
i'clock the next morning.
<< I was making preparations for plant
ng my batteries, when the inhabitants,
sfter having broke open the gates, which
lad been closed by the Auftrians, came
r orth and invited me to enter their city/
which I immediately did. I found the
nagiftrates at the gates lo receive me ;
hey offered me the keys of Mons : lay
ng my hand upon them, I told them we
were come as friends and brethren, to
aerfuade them to keep their gates always
ihut against their old oppressors, and to
kfend the liberty which we had just pro
ved therii.
«' This ever memorable event covers
France with immortal glory. There is
lot in the whale army a battalion, or
'quadron, or even a single individual, who
las not been in close engagement with
the enemy. You are already well ac
quainted with the abilities and bravery
as Gen. Bourncnville. All the other Ge
nerals, particularly Gen. Egalite, (hewed
the greatest judgment in leading on the
army. The field officers and aid-de camps
carried my orders with the greatest acti
vity and precition, through the midst of
the rtjoft dreadful fire and (laughter.—
General Drouet has had a leg broke by a
mufltet (hot, Colonel Claumont, Adjutant
General, was (hot through the arm, and
had his horse killed under him. Gen.
Ferrand received a contusion in the leg,
and had his horse killed. Adjutant Gen.
Monfoy was (hot in the mouth, and has
seven of his teeth knocked out. Col Du
bourret is badly wounded, as is Citizen
Lieutenant Berlicke, of the National
Gendarmerie, who received 41 wounds
(all given with broad fvvords) after he
had with his own hand killed 7 of the
enemy. Citizen Laffi (Tes. Lienteflant
Colonel of the two battalians of the twa
Sevres, had his arm b:oke by a mulkec
iTiot. Several other officers aud soldiers
have been killed and woundsd." I am not exactly acquainted v. ith thi
amount of our lols, but I estimate it at a
bout 300 killed, and 600 wounded. I
will fend you a more exact account, as
loon as I receive the regular returns from
die different corps. The enemy have 101 l
eight guns, taken by Gen. Bournonville's
advanced guard, and three in our-attack of
their left. Our gunners maintained their
reputation for bravery and ll'.lll, so much
dreaded by our enemies.
" The Auftrians have loft in killed,
wounded, and deserters, at lead 4000 men,
exclusive of almost as many more miffing,
and disbanded, some of whom we are evei"y
hour picking up.
" Such is the detail of this battle, which
may be considered a? decisive of the con
uueft of the Netherlands ; for the Auftri
ans will not again venture to measure their
strength with u: in a pitched battle ; in
this last, we have (hewn them that the uni
ted refburces of (ituatioii and art are not
able toraife a barrier too strong for French
bravery to pull down.
" The bearer of these dispatches, is
Lieutenant-Colonel Lame, my aid-de
camp, a man of the greatest intrepidity.
M-DtfMOURIfiR."
" Commander in Chief."
November 7. Plan of the Decree on
the trial of Louis the 16th, as reported to
the National Convention by the legi'.lative
committee.
Article 1. Louis XVI. can be tried.
•a. He shall be tried by the National Con
vention.
3. Four commissioners chosen from the
assembly, and appointed by ballot, and by
the plurality of votes, (hall be ordered to
collect the papeis and all the necessary in
formation, to form a report, which they
(hail lay before the assembly.
4. These commiflioners (hall close the
report by an express detail of the crimes
imputed to Louis XVI. when he was up
on the throne.
5. The reports, and the particulars of
the crimes, imputed to Louis XVI. (hall
be printed and distributed.
6. One week after the distribution, the
difcu'lon (hall open on the nature of the
crimes, which shall be adopted, or rcjeifted
by nominal appeal.
7 \ copy of all the papers lhall be given
to Louis XVI.
8. The copy of the report of the con
vention (hall alfobefentto Louis XVI.
9. On the requisition of Louis XVI. and
his counsel, the originals of the papers (hall
be carried to the Temple by twelve cora
iniffioners, who (hall return them into the
national archives, without being fuffered
to go away without them.
10. The convention shall fix the day of
Louis XVI. appearing before them.
it. No paper (hall be Pent out of the na
tional archives before an attested copy is
made of it.
12 The counsel of Louis XVI. (hall be
permitted to prefeut his juftification, writ
ten and (igned with his own hand.
1 j. The verba! defence made by Louis
XVI. (hall be taken down in writing by
the secretaries.
14. After the expiration of the periods
fixed the convention lhall pass their judg
ment upon him by nominal appeal.
Tiiis ; >p').': was much applauded, and
ordered to be printed. Each member is
t6 have ten copies, and it is to be sent to
the .S3 departments.
Bellaud de Verennes moved, that the
convention (houkl immediately decree the
firft article, but the further difcuflion was
adjourned till Monday.
Paris, Nov. 22. This evening the fol
low; g letter from Gen. Dumourier (da
ted oruffels, Nov. 14) was read in the
National Convention :
" Citizen President,
"I ye terday presented myfelf before
B. 1 flels with my advanced guard. The
Auftrians disputed with me the heights of
A i.lerfecht. I was unwilling to expose
my brave comrades to (lied blood in vain ;
night came on ; I kept my troops under
arms ; and, in the morning, I was received
at Brufjels as the Deliverer of the Nation !
The citizen minister at war will lay before
you the concise details which 1 have sent
to him. The army of the republic is more
animated than ever : It may receive for
a motto, Vires acjtiirit eitndc.
(Signed) DUMOURIER,
General in Chief of the Army in the
Austrian Netherlands.
LONDON, Nov. 20.
If the French (hould offer to attack Hol
land, after over-running the Austrian Ne
therlands, it is probable that a conliderable
number of Briti(h troops will be sent to the
assistance of the United Provinces, to op
pose the progress of the French arms,
which may eventually engage this country
in a war with that power.
Orders have been sent to Woolwich to
complete the two battalions of artillery
now in' England, with the utmost polTible
expedition : and recruiting parties are to
be immediately difpatchedto every part of
Great-Britain for that purpose.
On the 13th of September last, afire
broke out at Constantinople, which com
pletely consumed 6000 houses, 6000 shops,
5 mosques, numberless ware-houses, and
100 noble buildings, the relidence of the
principal miniflers, great officer;, and ge
nerals of the Porte.
For the National Gazette.
" He that is urgrat'ful has no (rimes but ore. I ''
WHAT is considered as vicious or crimi
nal in an individual mult be considered as
equally lb when extended to a society ; for
nothing, as the ingenious and republican
Dr. Rufli has remarked, can be politically
right that is morally wrong—Topoftpone
the payment of a debt of gratitude until it
is demanded, is to be truly ungrateful ;
for when the service is properly eltimated,
we anticipate of those who have
served us, and spare them the disagreeable
talk of becoming duns,
" A grateful mind,
By owing, owes not; but (till pays :
at once
Indebted and discharged."—
It will scarcely be denied that Frnnce
has rendered us efiential lervices both by
loan and her arms, when our affairs wore a
gloomy afpe£t, and when the ftoutelt re
publican heart felt some tremor about the
lllue, and yet we are hesitating, we are de
bating whether we shall discharge this ob
ligation of bonefty as well as gratitude, be
cau e, as it is ridiculoufiv (aid, (lie has not
demanded it o us—What, are we to be
dun'd'mto a payment of a jult and honorable
debt ? Can it be imagined that this pro
ceeds from her not wanting money ? Sure
ly not,but more probably from the delicacy
of hep-fituatien—Her aliignats, like conti
nental money, may serve her for a time,
but (hould the itruggle continue they may
meet the fame fate ; already have they
ebbed from their nominal value—at a t me,
when France is the champion of liberty,
apd is (igaalizing herfelf in tbccaufe of hu
manity ; when, (lie is combating the fell
holts of tyrants and feels a derangement in
her finances, from immemorial mal-admi
niltration, as well as from her present un
fettlecl slate, ought we not to anticipate her
demands, and not only discharge her law
ful claims, but exert every means in our
power to succour her ? I blu(h for my
country, which is laid to be the relidence
of freemen, when I rededt, that a motion
to discharge this honest debt, a part of the
premium of our liberty, was loft by the
calling vote of the Speaker of the House of
Representatives, snd was superseded by a
resolution to pay the fame sum to the Bank
of the United States—As long as Bar.k di
rectors, Stockholders, & Stock jobbers form a
conliderable part of our federallegiflature,
we are to expect that our honor and ho
nesty, our faith and our virtue are to bend
to their views—But fays our wary minister
at the Republic, (I will not insult freemen
by faying the court of France,) "if we dis
charge this debt now we may be obliged
to pay it again": (hameful and difgraceful
caution, an opprobrium upon our country,
and worthy only of the reptiles of change
alley, or of a land broker —Had this been
the language of our faithful allies in the
period of onr diltreffe?, what would have
been the confeqnence ? Was our indepen
dence established at the time France open
ed her purse to us ? Who indorsed our
contracts, who was our security that the
loan would ever be repaid ? Ungrateful
Americans, and from such conduct unwor
thy of freedom ! Should the treasury of
the United States be emptied into the lap
of France, it would not cancel the obliga
tion, it would be but a small offering at the
(hrine of liberty. To aid twenty five mil
lions ofpeople inafierting the rights which
nature and nature's God entitled them to,
(hould be the pious wifli of freemen, and
(hould call forth their greatest exertions;
but it cannot be expected from a minister,
who thinks that " a Republican is the
proudefl animal in the whole world, ex
cepting a TURKEY cock" '. !
Jan. 9, 1793. FRANKLIN.
For the National Gazette.
PLEASE TO TAKE NOTICE,
i THAT on Monday next will be brought
to the grand forum of the nation, for TiU
AL, thefoldiers of thelatf American army,
charged on the following indictment, viz.
1. For surviving the fatigues and support
ing their reputation to the end of an ardu
ous and hazardous war ; and preventing
Walhington, Hancock, and Adams, from
dancing upon nothing.—2dly. For retiring
from the field with a promise of the evi
dence of their wages, and carrying with
them a load of honour and a knapsack
3dly. For not having fufficient ability to
retain the certificates afterwards given as
evidences of the debt, until they could be
funded or fold for 20s. in the pound.—4th.
For felling their certificates in times of dis
tress to the speculators at 2pb for 20s. to
their own loss and the great injury of the
public faith and national honour —sth.
For conceiving it a hardlhip, after loling
seVen eighths of their pay, to be compelled
to work double tides to earn money topay
the full amount of the certificates to the
gentlemen speculators.
All which crimes were considered as
highly subversive of peace, good order, and
occononiy, and the fifth charge repugnant i
to the several plans adopted by the Secre
tary of the Treafnry to lupport public cre
dit ; and against the honour, dignity, and
expectations of those who confided in pub
lic faith.
The defendants being arraignedat New-
York, in February, 1790, plead guilty to
the tirft charge. To the four succeeding
charges they plead notgtiilty of intentional
indignity, or an expectation of loling
their wages ; and put themi'elves upon trial
by God and their country —which country
found them guilty, of the five charges ex
hibited againll them.
The Hon. Samuel Livermore, ( - oun '" e '
Fijlrer Ames, and C r tor
Egbert Benjon, Ejq's. J P^ rs
James Maiijon, Esq. counsel
for the defendants.
The defendants by their refpe£live me
morials have obtained a re-hearing ; and
the parties concerned will give their atten
dance, and govern themselves accordingly.
A CONTINENTAL SOLDIER. 1
Jan. 10, 1793.
Fcr the National Gazitte.
Continued from our Paper of the 19th of
December last, (No. 119.)
" IN vain, fays Mr. Otfego, have his
(Governor Clinton's) partizans explained
away his opinions, in vain have they tried
to throw a veil over his aitions. 111 spite
of all their endeavours antifederalifm, am
bition, and ani:ifatiable thirst fur the emo
luments of office are plainly discernible."
Here is another very evident mifipplica
tion of terms, for not his partizans, but his
oppefers, have endeavoured to expiain a
way his opinions ; thole who, while they
usurp the name of republicans, would frit
ter and explain away the molt eilentfal
principles of a free government ; who,
while they profefs themselves friend? to the
rights of man, openly oppose a formal de
claration of thole rights ; \lilo, while they
pretend a warm attachment to the Hate
governments, are for attachingall the pow
ers of government to the general one, so
as to render them merely formal and use
less inftitutiona ; who instead of securing
the rights and liberties of the people, by
eftablilhing proper checks againlt the abu
ses of power, are for eltablilhing powers
independent of the people, as checks against
their rights and liberties. These are the
men who would fain explain away his opi
nions and principles. Not those who think
that a proper bill or declaration of rights,
and a suitable degree of power rcferved in
the state governments, where the peo
ple have a full and a fafe representation,
would be much better balances to the ge
neral government, and more proper and
effectual chccks againlt its opprefTions, than
an hereditary monarch and house of lords
at the head of it: Not those who think
that government is made for the people,
and not the people for government, and
that the end of it is to secure the rights and
promote the happiness ef all, not to en
rich, aggrandize and exalt the few.
His oppofers also, isnd not his partizans,
would be glad, was it in their power, to
throw a veil over his actions. For they
have been as uniform and unequivocal as
his opinions and principles, and I believe
both will bear the left sf the flrictelt fern
tiny and investigation. Both in his opini
ons and pra£tice he has disco*. ered a steady
adherence to the equalizing principles
whish governed our councils and conduct
in the year seventy-six, when aristocratic
pride and ambition durst not shew it: head.
The man who in that day would have pub
lished doctrines, and pursued measures,
which are now preached up and pursued
by the opponents of the partizans of Go
vernor Clinton, would have betn confin
ed as one whose going at large would have
been dangerous to the liberties of the
country.
As to the charges of antifederalifm, am
bition, and third for the emoluments of
office, they cannot be all true, because
they are inconiiilent with each other; for
if he is an antifederal in the sense the au
thor would insinuate he i? opposed to a go
vernment, which alone can gratify the
cravings of ambition, or any very great
\ thirst after the emoluments of office. The
state governments were not formed upon
the plans of ambition ; and it is to be hop
ed that the adminiltration of them will ne
ver become so corrupted as to make the e
moluments of office defireable objefrs ei
ther to avarice or luxury, neither of which
ought to be admitted to participate in the
administration of a republican government.
It is the general government alone, if a
ny, in this country, which can support that
pomp and fhew,that mimickry o: lordliness
and royalty, which is the general pursuit of
ambition : and it is this alone which can
annex such emoluments to offices, as will
attract the notice of the avaricious or of
the extravagant. Hence it is evident, that
where either ambition or a thirst for the
emoluments of office, are the ruling pafli
ons, they 11111 ft produce an attachment for
the general government, and form what is
called a federalift ; for it is better to be a
door keeper in the House of Congress, than
to fit on the throne of government iu some
of the states.
To be continued.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Monday, Jan. 7.
. (In the lafl paragraph of Saturday's mi
nutes, in our last, injlead of " 48 against
21" read, " 21 members only rising in fa
vour of it.")
A bill was reported, from the commit
tee, for repealing part of a relolution of
Congress, relative to the inhabitants of Post
St. Vineennes, on the Wabafh which waa
read twice and made one of the orders oi
the day for to-morrow.
A bill, providing for the support of go
vernment for 1793, was reported by the
committee to whom the former appropri
ation bill had been, recommitted—read
twice, debated on in committee of the
whole, reported without amendment, and
laid on the table till to-morrow.
The House then went into committee of
the whole, on the invalid pension bill. Af
ter some progress made, the committee rose
without deciding-
TuesdAY, Jan. 8.
A petition of William Wirtz, praying
compensation for services in 1-82—referred
to the Secretary of the Treasury.
The appropriation bill for j-93 was then
read a fecondtime, amende*!, and ordered
to be engrofled for 3 third l eading to-mor
row .
A meflage was received from the Senate,
that they had pi:lied tlie bill in addition to
the ait for edabldliing the judicial courts
of the United States ; as also, the bill pro
viding lor the allowance of intereii: 011 the
sum ordered to be paid by the resolve of
Congress of Sept. 20, 178j, for indemnify
ing the persons therein named.
A letter was received from the Secreta
ry of State, with a report of the allays and
experiments made by the director of the
mint, 011 the gold and illver coins of France,
England, Spain, and Portugal, purliiant to
1 order—read, and laid on the table.
The bill (lent from the Senate) foreftn
j l>li(hing the judicial courts of the United
! States, was twice read, and made one of
j the orders of the day for next Thursday.
The House then proceeded to consider
i the motion for reducing tfte military cfta
| blifhment of the United States, disagreed to
I in the committee ol the whole on Saturday
Jail. A motion was made and fecondecl
for amending by ftrikingout certain words
of the resolution, and inferring others in
their {lead, which was negatived—yeas 26,
nays 32 —The quefrion for agreement be
| ing pi;t, it palled in the negative—yeas 20,
pays ;6.
The IToi-fe then went into ccwnmittee of
the whole, on the bill for regulating claims
to invalid penfious—after some time spent
therein, several amendments were report
ed, and partly cortfidered—the further con
sideration deferred till to-morrow.
Wedmes.tAy, Jan. 9.
The engrofled bill, making appropriati
ons for 1793, was read a third time, and
sent to the Senate for their concurrence.
A petition was read from tlie comb-ma-
I kers of several states, praying encourage
-1 ment of said manufaflory, and that the dir
ty on imported combs may be incrcafcd—
referred to the Secretary of the Treafi ry.
Several other petitions were reed, and re
ferred—and then the house refr.r.ied the
consideration cf the invalid penlion bill ;
a motion was made for amending the fame
by adding a fettion, excluding all persons
who were not on the liA previous to the
23d of March, 1702; the qtiertion being) ot
on tile said motion, was carried in the af
firmative—yeas 40, nays 20—The bill was
then ordered to be engrcfTcd for a third
reading to-morrow.
A report \\ as made from the committee
that thev had examined the bill providing
for the allowance of intereii on the sura
paid by order of Congress, as an indemnity
to the persons therein named—The Speaker
signed the bill, and the clerk of the hotifi
was ordered to acquaint the Senate there
with.
A mefikg* was received from the Senate,
that th; v have palled the bill for eflablifh
ing a mint, and regulating the copper coin
age of the United States ; ajid made seve
ral amendments which were taken into
consideration and agreed to.
Thursday, Jan. 10.
The engrofled bill to regulate claims to
invalid peniions, was read the third time
and palled, yeas 36. nays 13.
Report was made from the committee on
enrolled bills, on the bill to amend the a*
eflablifhing a mint and regulating the cop
per coinage—the Speaker then signed the
fame.
The house proceeded to consider the re
port on the petition of the Illinois and Wa
bafh land companies, made the lafl feflton ;
the report was favorable to the petition
ers—A motion for referring the report to
a committee of the whole house was neg
atived.
Amotion was made by Mr. Smith, (S.
C.)that the Attorney-General be directed
to report a table of fscs in the judicialcourts of the United States, at the next fef
lion—laid on the table.
Mr. Boitdinot moved,for the appoint
ment of a committee to bring in a lilt of
the names of such invalids, who since the
21 ft of March 1792, have been returned to
the war office, together with the vouchers
accompanying the fame.
The home then, in committee of the
whole, proceeded to consider the resoluti
ons respecting the loan of tiie balances, due
from the United State? to the individual
states ; after some debate thereon, the
committee rose and reported progress.
In committee of the whole oro the bill
relative to cla: us against the United States,
which are not barred by any act of limita
tion, and which not been already ac
jufted.—The bill was read, and debated
on. Oil motion of Mr Giles, the bill was
amended, by fnbfiituting a fettion, making
it the duty of the treasury officers co report
to Congrcfs on the claims presented purui
ant to this n£t—agreed to.
The committee then rose and reported
the bill with the amendment.
PHILADELPHIA.
January 12-
The title of the earl of Calais, with an
estate of fifteen thousand pounds fteflir.g,
per annum, has lately, by the death of ti
old earl in Scotland, devolved to Archiba....
Ktnr.edy, Esq. of King and Queen cou:i:y,
in the state of Virginia. ihe late Alex
ander Kennedy, father to the above men
tioned Archibald Kennedy, d'ed about two
years ago, and altho'heir apparent to tins
estate, was fulfered by his great uncle, the
late earl, to struggle with every difficulty
which narrow circumstances. and a nume
rous family may be supposed to create.
On Wednesday morning last Mr. Blan
chard, the celebrated aeronaut, made his
ascension from the jail-court in this city.
He took his departure precisely at ten mi
nutes past 10. The weather was tolera
bly clear, with ?- small air from the welt
ward. His general direaion after as
cending to a considerable height, was S. b.
E. He was 46 minutes in the air, and
landed, after three attempts, in Glouces
ter countv, N. J- about 15 miles t. om .1-
ladelphia, and from thence was escorted
back to town by several gentlemen, where
he arrived at fix in the evening. He sup
posed his greatest perpendicular height
from the earth to have been about two
miles.
Two persons were lately apprehended
in New-York (city) for attempting to
pass United States 13ank notes of jo dol
lars. A third was the next day (Decem
ber 19) taken up at Newark. In the foal
of one of his boots was found a plate tor
striking 50 dollar notes, with 29 bills of
that value, finilhed and lignrd. In the foal
of the other boot were Gxty-feven bank
bills, not signed. In his pocket book was
found another 50 dollar bill, and apiece
.cf poetry. It is to be lamented that all
the paper, found upon this unfortunate
man, was not of the latter denomination.
A number of emigrants ar.d transient
persons from the French \\ eft-Indies have
petitioned the Affembiy of this state that
their negro {laves attending them might noi
be set free, by the law exilting in Pennsyl
vania in favor of {laves in general. The
report of the committee on this fubjecl
was unfavorable to the petitioners, and
they had leave to withdraw their peti
tion.
Some diftur'oances have recently taker
place (the 3d or 4th of December) in the
town of Cape Francois, between tht
whites and muiattoes. On the sth, how
ever, all was quiet again. During tht
commotions in the town, the negro arm)
without made an attack, and had once
nearly carried the place, but were at
length repulsed with considerable loss.
A letter from a gentleman in Boston,
mentions that a European vefiel had arri
ved there, the 29th ultimo, which bring:
accounts, that a truce has tak<n place be
tween the French and Austrian armies;
that a grand Congress was to be formed or
the continent, for negotiating a peace ;
and, that the National of France, are tc
fend deputies to it. In confequenceof this
it had been determined to recal the Frenci
armies within the frontier, and the enemj
to evacuate the entire line from Dunkirk
to Geneva.
We are informed, that the inhabitants oi
the islands of Martinico and Guadaloupe,
have lately captured, by an armed force,
the islands of Lucia and Marigalante, twe
French islands. It is said, the two former
colonies have renounced the jurifdiftion oi
France, and have eftablilhed themselves as
an independent state.'
We hear Mr. Paine's work on the rights
of man is become so popular as tobetranf
lated into several languages of Europe.—
The Secretary of the king of Sweden, has
availed himfelf of the" liberty granted by
the regent to translate this workalfo—and
we do not despair that in a few years this
invaluable performance may even reach
and pervade European Turkey itfelf.
Sevei al accounts from Europe represent
the lituation of tiie French emigrants in
inch a difiua! light as to excite coinmifera
tion in the bitterest enemy. More than
t:in thauf.md pfrfons, molt of them hereto
fore noblemen, and ali gentlemen, are
now wandering about without money, fuf
t -nance, or even cloaths to cover them
from tiie rigour of the winter feafon—-Jbe
rate miferi, cavete, felices.
No lefi than three or four French ladies
a.-e at the head of troops in different de
partments of the war in the vicinity oi the
kingdom. Among these Madame Anfel
me is the molt conspicuous. She is liltei
to the p itriotic General of that name, anc
commands a body of 15CO men.
One of the Indian Chiefs who arrivei
here from the Wabalh country, died :
'ew days lince of a pleurisy, contracted 01
iiis way hither.
From several concurring accounts there
3 no doubt but the French republic is now
itting out a flrong squadron of veli'els o:
>var. In the Mediterranean they have i
:on!iderable number of large (hips actual!}
truiling : some of these have not long
ince appeared off Civita Vecch'.a ; lo thai
t is not improbable an expedition into Ita
y is intended ; and that Rome tiie arjci
.•nt miltrefs of the world, may once more
>pen her gates, not to Goths and barbari
ans but to the free foidier citizens ol
France ; not to be fucked or laid in afues.
is formerly, but to adop: the laws of rea
"011, liberty and equality.
A motion was made and fecontlcti in the
senate of the L'nited States on tiie in{l.
.hat the following reibintions lie adopted—
[. That the Senate of the United State;
ire individually refponfibie for their con
lucl to their conTituents, who are entitled
o fnch information as will enable tuem tc
"orith a just estimate therein. 2. That the
onrnjils are too voluminous and expen
"ve to circulate generally, and ir it were
itherwife, that the information tiiey con
:ain, as to the principles, motives, and de
igns of individual member..' is inadequate.
That this information, defeccive as it is,
k-comes more nugatory and dclufive, in
jroportion as the oecalion lor it ef.creaies,
ince the Senate make their own journals.
l. That the condu£tinj of the legillatiye
.nd judicial pow ,-rs of the Senate in pub
ic, and fufferiag an account of their mca
yres and deliberations to be publilhed in
he newfpa'pers, is the befit means of diffu
ing general information, concerning the
>rinciples, motives, and conduct of indivi
iual members, and that by withholdirg
his information refpon'ibility becomes un
lvailing, the influence of their confi/tnc-nt
,ver one branch of the legifiature in a
rreat measure annihilated, and the belt
ecurity which experience ha', dev.fed a
rninfl: the abuse ot power, and a mal-au
niniftration, abandoned. 5. "I h3t ic be a
landing rule, that the doors of tiie Senat'
:hambe" remain open whiift the Senate
liall be fitting in a legislative and judica
ive capacity, except 0:1 filch occasions as,
n their judgment, may require secrecy;
ind th it this rule (hall commence and be
n force on the lirft day of the next feflion
if Coigrefs. 6. That the _ Secretary oi
;he Senate requelt the commissioners of the
:ity and county of Philadelphia, to canfe a
rroper gallery to be erected for the accom
nodatiou of an audience.
The above resolutions were laid on the
:able, and made the order of the day foi
:he firft Monday in February.
~ From the Harrifburg Advertifcr cf lflj~
Monday-J
Notwithstanding the idea of an exclfi
law is reprobated from eaflto well on tlli:
extended continent, yet so determined an
aur state ciiicers to act in open contenipl
and disregard of the people's inclination
'Jul they infinuttte an obedience to the di
abolical hydra by force of arnts. Thi:
[Ivle and language would well fiiit the
::ourt of a defpotTbut does not apply te
men who ore no-,v, in proper person, the
living monuments of their Own liberty ; —
which liberty they do not mean to relin
-,;_-,i "1, without their own proper consent,
nor to be fettered by a law which they dif
spprove. There is no foarchiag of mull)
records of ancient date, to inform Ameri
cans. that they mv.si- not have laws ti
Vieafe themselves : no—that ceased whe;
:iiey. by their prowess, loss of blood, nnc
wounds, which they now carry about, and
ire yet hardly healed, extricated them
"elves from the hard grasp of British taxa
tion. This ariflocratic fondnefs and at
tachment to an excise law, seems to
je borrowed from the moll enllavcd
aart of Europe, namely, Ireland. The
thousands extorted by the excise, and
the bayonet, its natural concomitant, from
tiie unhappy people of that country, (ince
Mr. Barrisford's refinement on that busi
ness, is now viewed here with a jealous
eye- Money would hire foidiers, and fol
dters would dragoon people into a compli
ance with any law. A law that gives uni
versal fatisfadlion, needs not the daring
front of a foidier to giveit weight or effica
cy : no, it diffufes itfelf mildly, without
tumult, difguil, or outrage, to the moll re
mote part of the Hates. — Let not then
those who are only the echo of the people
perliflin intruding an excise law , but, on
the contrary, repeal it, and encourage,
;ven by premiums, every art and manufac
ture of our own country.
Abridgement of foreign news by the lale
arrivals.
The amount of the property taken in
Spires by the French republican General
Cuftine, is thus enumerated —J4OO mul
kets : 7 fix pounders : a howitzers : 2(>c
calk; of lioui" : 1 !,7~0 sacks ot oats and
barley: 1927 trufles of hay : 1500 tent;:
j j bales of lhoes : and 1,770,000 Kvres 111
l I.fli (from Spires and Worms) —1 he Se
nate of Venice had wholly declined i
kin?' anv part in the war agaiult 1 ranee ;
llledging that their affiltance could be bin
trifling, and that the forces they have arc
in 1■ i wanted at home to keep out the con
:: gion of French liberty.— Ihe court oj
spain had sent a formal meilage to the
French Convention, that they meant not
:o join the league again!! the nation, and
:hat their anny was not upon any account tu
xifs the Spaniih frontier. Gen. Culline,
a a Utter dated Eldcr/heivi. Oft. 16, had
nformed the National Convention, that
i. ieteen thoufaiid Ruflian troops were
then marching into Germany, ! o aflift in
lipporting the despotic cause. He ados,
:lic they were to be followed immediate
y by a much larger army, with an ir.ten
:ton to invade Silesia, to serve as an in
lemiiiiication to the emperor Francis :
:hi , it was thought, was one reason ot the
king of Priiiiiu, hurrying back from the
frontiers of France to his own dominions.
Gen. A lifeline had added Villefranche tc
lis other conqueils from the king of Sar
dinia. The governor of that city, tho
trongly fortihed, surrendered upon film
motls —with the city, was captured a fii
rate, a !!oop, all the magazines for the uft
t>i' tiie Sardinian navy, and above ico pie
tes of artillery. Tiie town ot Longwy.
neretofore taken by the combined forces.
>va.i re-surrendered to the Frrnch on the
iSc'n of October, by the king oi Prufiia. —
Dhcoveries had been made that Louis the
• 6th, so long ago as the 10th of June 1791,
u,d privately lent a letter of protestation
.0 every court in Europe, disavowing ait
lecrees he had cr might fanciicn, while
mder the dominion of the National Ai
embly.—A decree of accnfation had psfled
the National Convention against M. Choi
eul, French ambaflador at Constantinople,
for co-operating with that court, and feve
•al others, in preventing the admillion ol
M. Semonville, the ambaflador named by
tho afl'smbly of the nation, to fiiperfedt
M. Choifeul.—The army ot the French
Liiiigrants, under the Bourbon prince:
were reduced to a small number, mod oi
then) having quitted the service, their fit-
UK' -' prospects preferring nothing but dan
ger, distress, and misfortune, in Irelanc
affairs began to wear a fcrious afpeci ; the
;eople clamorous for a refioration ot na
.ural and equal rights. When the last ac
jouuts left that island, upwards of eight;
thousand men were under arms with ;
determination to work a reform in govern
ment, or eftablilh a new one for them
"elves.—The. National Convention o:
France had palled a decrec against the Emi
grants, condemning them to perpetual tx
lie, in form as follows :
•' Death and confi'calion of property to al
( .. . . ants who inhabit, or have inhabit
ed, countries at war with the republic.
'• Coniilcation of property to all who inha
bit countries not at war with the repub
lic.
" Death to all who have aided, excited
or favored emigration."
All hopes of agreement between th<
States ol Brabant and the Austrian go
vernment had vanifheci,. the people bein;
inclined in all those to revolt, anc
eirabliih a republican government, undei
the auspices of France. The patriotic
party 111 Holland are again exerting them-
I elves again ft the Stadtholder, countenan
;ed by the French conqueils, and the coun
try was in a state of tumult when theft
accounts left Europe. Gen. Duntouriei
had (ignified a wilh to the National Con
icnth 11 to retire, and had rtcormnehded
Gen. Valence, as his fucceflbr. Frankfort
Dii the Main had surrendered to Gen. Cuf
nr.e without the leaf! retiftance : in it
were found 165 pieces of artillery, and vail
; u»ntities of military {lores and ammuni
tion. Louis the 16th, it wasexpefted,
would soon be brought to his trial, but
that no capital punishment would be in
flicted on him ; the national vengeance be
ing amply glutted in his degradation, and
being obliged to live in the m'ldft of frec
raea—The French were making prepara
tions to over-run Italy, and little doubt
exiiled tiiat the triumph of liberty in
trance would not end till the old papal
serpent called Anti-'Chrift is completely
humbled to the dust : but to prevent this,
the Emperor of Germany had iflued his
mandate, ordering and exhorting all the
princes of Italy to unite with the king of
Sardinia, in repelling the French.
[Communications from Correfpondents.~\
A new Titular Dictionary is said to be
composing; at Hartford, in Connecticut, in
which will be difujfed and explained the
origin, etymology, and true import of all
Titles, from " your majesty," " your lord-
fiiip," or " your filglinefs," down tofirri
ple ESQUIRE. It is conjectured that
when this work is accomplished, the claim'
of the above place to the old afilimed title
of The American Athens, will be renew
ed. Two Epic Poems, oSe Mock-Hero
ic, The Triumph of Infidelity, and a
Spelling Book, had previously given feme
colour of right to this title. But the ad
dition of A DICTIONARY will difurm
Envy herfelf, fliould she attempt to dispute
tiieir claim to Parnafiiis.
One cannot help admiring at the weak
ness, or effrontery, of certain writers who
would, if possible, persuade the public that
no happiliefs, nor temporal benefit of any
kind, is at present enjoyed in this country
but thro' the operative influence of the fe
deral government. Candour fliould in
duce them toconfefs, that no visible alter
ation for the better is wrought thereby on
the circumstances of the generality ot the
people. Poverty ftifr reigns triumphant
over her thousands ; and thousands after
pvery effort of ceconomy and indnfiry, Ail I
(lirink into the cheerless hut of want and
misery, as before. Speculators and mini
iterial favorites may, indeed, boast of the
vast bleflings ensured to them from the
change, and it is from these, cbiefly, that
certain animated eulogiuins proceed. At
the fame time let it be remembered that
this class of citizens do by no means speak
the sense of the people at large—
.Sir.co federal-fway hath been exerted here
What numerous blefilngsto our country flow !
Whales on oar shores have run aground,
Sturgeons are in cur rivers found ;
Nay—foips have on the Delaware fail d,
A fight mod new!
Wheat has been sown—
Harvests have grown—
Gn coaches,'how, gay coats of arms are bore
By some, who hardly hai a coat belore—
Silk gowns, inflcad ofhomefpmi. now are seen,
lnftead of native prow, the Leghorn hat :
And Sir, 'tis true
( Twin me and you,)
That some have grown prodigious fat
That were—prodigious lean !
I'or the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
SHORT CA NE S !
TWO bucks, having loft their bamboos in a fray,
Side by fidefwagger d into a toy fhopone day,
Each, by a new purchase, his lofa to repair.—
But, lo ! when for payment our heroes prepare,
All the cuih 111 their pockets, together ccmbin d,
For the purchase of or.e, scarce fufficient they find.
Jn common they buy it ; and, nice to a hair,
In two drey divide it, and each takes his lharcc
Our beaux economic, improving the hint,
The length of their canes have determin d to flint:
And when they would buy, a whole company splice
Their pence and their farthings to mal.e up the
price.
Hence, view the smart beau, and you soon afccr
tain
The depth of his purse, by the length of his cane
MOMDS.
Philadelphia, January 12, 1793.
MATHEW CAREY
Refpe&fu'ly informs the Citizens of the
United States, that the Mapsfor his
intended edition of
Guthrie's Geography
IMPRO V E Dj
Arc now engraving—and as soon as a fufiicient
number of them are finished, to secure a regular
supply during the publication,wjiich will proba
bly be early next Sf>rirg y the woik will be put
to press.
Hereturns his acknowledgments to the very
reipeflable number of fubferibers, who havecome
foiward thus early to p3tiomze this arduous un
dertaking. He. allures them and the public in
general, that no pains or expiree'lhall be fparcd in
the execution of the work.
Terms of tie IVtrk :
J. IT ill aII be pubiifhed in 48 weekly num
bers, each containing three fiuet., or twenty-four
pages, of letter press, in quarto, printed vuth new
types on fine paper.
11. In the course of the work will be delivered
about thirty large maps, ef tht fame iize as those
in the Furopean editions, viz. mod of them sheet
maps on post paper.
Besides the maps in tie Eritifh Editions,
rbis ivork W/.7 contain nine or ten American State
Maps.
111. The price of each number will be a quar
ter dollar, to be paid on delivery.
No advance required.
IV. Subscribers who disapprove of the work,
on the publication of the three firft numbers, arc
to be at liberty to return them, and shall have
their money repaid,
V. The fubferibers' names Hi all be prefixed as
patrons of the undertaking.
* # * Subscriptions leceived in Philadelphia by
the intended publifiier ; in New-York, by all the
bookfeliers j in New-Haven,, by Mr. Beers : in.
Hartford, by Mr. Patten } in Boflon, by Mefi".
Tbomas and Andrews, and by Mr. Weft j in.
Baltimore, by Mr. Rice ; in Richmond, by Mr-
J. Carey } in Charlelton, by Mr, W. P. Young,
and by fun dry other persons throughout the Uni
t:d Stales. ja-wtf[Continuation of the Debate in the House
of Representatives of tlie United States,
on Mr. Steele's motion for the reauc
tion of the Military Ellablifliment.]
Wtdnefday, January 2.
MR. WADS WORTH firft noticed
Mr. Steele's statements and calcu
lations.—These, he said, were erroneous;
and even if covrtft. the inferences the gen
tleman had drawn from them did not ap
pear to him just. He was surprised thai
the gentleman fliould so positively havt
pledged himfelffor their accuracy, when
they tvere so very far from deserving thai
character. As the statements of Mr
Steele lind been publilhcd to the world,
he thought it right to state in what the)
are erroneous.
The great object of that gentleman ir
offering his calculations to the house, was
to fnew a prodigious progrellive encreafi
in the espenccs of the war department
since the cftablifiiment of the new govern
ment. For this purpose he had comparer
what he dated as the appropriations o
the years 1790, 1791, and 1792 with oni
another, and with the sum now called so:
from that department for the year 1793
Mr- Wadfworth proceeded to shew thi
inaccuracy of the gentleman in this at
tempt, by the following statement :
Mr. Steele stated that for 1790 the ap
propriations for the quarter-mailer's de
partment amounted to 15,000 Dols.
Whereas the fumappro
priated was 20,000
Omitted by Mr. Steele, j,ooo
For the hospital in the
fame year Mr. Steele
Hates 1,000
Sumactuallyappropriated 1,250
Omitted, 250
For contingencies in the
fame year Mr. Steele
states, 3,°°°
Sum actually appropriated 3,750
Omitted, 75°
pay,fubfiftence and cloath
ing, for 1790, Mr.
Steeleftates, 126,020
Sum actually appropriated 147,100.8
Omitted, ' 21,080.!
Total oir.iffions for 1790 27,080.!
In the year 1791.
Mr. Steele states the quar
ter-matter's depart
ment at 35,000
Sum really appropriated, 75,000
Omitted, 50,000
The hospital department 1,635.20
Really appropriated, 5,635.20
Omitted, 4,000
Contingencies at 5,000
Appropriated 30.000
Omitted, 25,000
Pay.fubliftence and cloa
thingat 158,475.80
Appropriated 331,788.20
Omitted, 173,312.4 c
Total omissions, 252,312.4 c
In the year 1792.
Mr. Steele states the
qiiarter-mafter's de
partment at _ 50,000
Sum really appropriated 120,000
Omitted, 70,000
The hospital department
at 6,000
Really appropriated, 15,000
Omitted, 9,000
The ordnance depart
ment at 7,204.64
Appropriated, 28,704.64
Omitted 21,500
Contingencies at 20,000
Appropriated, 50,000
Omitted, 30,000
Pay,fubfiftence and cloa
thing, 270,374-70
Appropriated, 707,405.42
Omitted, 437,030.72
Total of omissions for
1792, dollars, 567,530.72
From the foregoing the inaccuracy ol
Mr. Steele's statements, and of the calcu
lations founded on them were evident.—
The prodigious rapid encreafe of the war
department expences did not appear,
and the gentleman's favlng plan, founded
on the difference of the appropriation for
1792 and the sum edimated for 93 proved
very ti id ng indeed, amounting to a few
thoufand6 only.
Mr. VVadfworth said he did not posi
tively pledge himfelf for the absolute accu
racy of his datements; but if there were
errors in them he ventured to fay they
were but trifling.
He next took notice of Mr. Steele's ar
guments relative to the ordnance depart
ment From what had been said by that
gentleman on (his he truly thought, as he
had expressed it, that the bufincfs bore a
ludicrous appearance : but on further en
quiry, by looking over an account of the
expenditures of the war department, it
appeared that the large sums appropriated
for the ordnance department, far from be
ing expended in the purchase of cannon,
not one {lulling had gone to that use, it
was all for repairs to arms, &c. The
statement of the gentleman in this parti
cular he could not conceive confident with
candor.
As the gentleman from North Caroli
na reded his aflertiou of abuses in the war
department, on the statements he had pro
duced, these aflertions he conceived, he
fufficiently answered, by shewing the state
ments mis-stated.
Mr. Wadfworth referred to parts of the
Secretary at War's reports to flicw that
that officer had been in favor of conciliato
ry, and averse to hodile measures with the
Indians, to another part to diow liis opi
nion where and how militia were effective.
He next turned to the causes of the
war. The edablifhment of a war depart
ment was, in his opinion, by no means, as
had been suggested, the cause of the In
dian war, but rather the effect. The war
exided before the edablilhment of the pre
sent government —it is ail inheritance from
the old confederation and so is the war de
partment. The hidory of its origin and
progress was in record, and might he tra
ced by a reference to the resolves of Con
gress. The war exided in 1784. A
communication received some years back
from the executive of Georgia would e
vince its exidence and shew its violence.
The executive complained that the fron
tier was too thinly fettled, and some coun
ties broken up, and ordered out 3000
men to protest it—since that even the ci
ty of Savannah was, he had heard, so fe
riondy threatened, that the citizens were
obliged to keep guard in it—and this be
fore the present war system.
Neither could the present mode of car
rying 011 the war be called the creature of
the war department. It was rather the
President's war—or the war indeed of the
lioufe, the war of the legislature ; the plan
was a good one as the experience of the
President in these wars made him a proper
judge; it had his approbation and we
know it.
He mentioned several indances of the
cruelty of the whites towards the Indians,
healfo stated the information of Judge In
nis of the depredations of the Indians ; the
single didritt of Kentucky had loft from
1783 to 1790, 1500 men, women and
children, killed and taken, with 2000 hor-
Fes and other property, amounting to at
lead 50,000 dollars, and to these he attri
buted the war in which wc were involved.
The hidory of the settlement of Kentuc
ky, if recurred to, would affoid a series of
:aufes of Indian hodilities.
He next proceeded to examine the opi
nion advanced of the superiority of militia
over regular forces in an Indian war. He
recurred to hidory to disprove the opinion.
So early as the year after Braddock's de
feat, he said, Virginia attempted to pro
test itfelf against the incursions of the In
dians by edablilhing a number of polls a
long their frontier. The Indians, not
withdanding, penetrated the frontier,
came 60 miles within it and drove the inha
bitants as far as Winchester, In the war
which lucceeded the peace of 62, garri
sons, T4 or 15 in number, were edablifhed,
to afford the wished for protection ; they
were all captured by the Indians, 3 or 4
excepted. The Pennfylvnnia frontier had
been more than once penetrated notwith-
Ilanding the refidance of the militia. He
next cited the indance of Col. Bouquet's
luccefs against the Indians with only two
regiments of regular troops, which had e
fen been much weakened by a long cam
paign in the Weft-Indies. These two re
giments marched into the Indian country:
A.t fird, finding no kind of support on
:he frontier, and when arriving at Csrlifle
where he expedted to be aided by (lores,
troops, See. he found a general panic had
taken pofleflion of the frontier—the coun
ty of Cumberland through which he was
to pass, deserted; the roads covered with
diltrefTed families; but here having got to
gether a few pack horses he flood in need
of, he (till advanced with the few troops
under his command, & gave the Indians
battle. Thecombat lasted from one o'clock
till night, was renewed the next morning,
continued thro' the day and ended with
the total rout and deftruftion of the Indi
an army. He then stationed his force in
a commanding fort, and so effectually re
ft-ored peace to the frontier and foirit to the
inhabitants that they returned to their
homes, which they had abandoned and
lent their afiiftance against the foe the next
campaign With the militia of Virginia
and Pennsylvania he entered the heart of
the enemies country and forced the Indi
ans to fubmifilon. He cited another in
ilance of the success of Indians against mi
•'itij. The engagement between Bco mi
litia, under General Herkemer and 700
Indians, and others, where a total over
throw was given to the militia.
The firft check the lroop3 of the United
States met with during the operation of the
present war system he adverted to, —in the
expedition under General Harmar. In
that instance the want of vigour in the mi
litia, is acknowledged by their own cam
mander ; and as to the expedition under
Gen. St. Clair, the regulars were few and
not to be named when compared with the
number of the militia. The advanced
giiaid, in this action, composed entirely of
these.not only run off without firing but e
ven threw away their guns and perhaps
their coats too, which circumftance-inayac
count for the appellation of coat men, giv
en to our men by the Indians.
He next took notice of a late instance,
the engagement between Major Adair,
commanding a party of militia, and some
Indians. He txpreffed his good opinion
of that officer, but the conduct of his men
he wished to bring to view ; and this iie
evinced from the commander's own letter
wherein he fays, •' that the Indians ob
tained their end, the triumph is theirs,"
and in another place, " I will candidly
confefs, when thev retreated, the Indians, I
believe, it was more the effect of choice
than necessity."
Mr. Wadfworth then combated the opi
nion advanced, that Indian expeditions by
militia, were less expenlive than by regular
troops; after mentioning several facts to
the contrary, he inltanced general Clark's
western expedition which had c ;ft, he was
not prepared to fay how much, but im
mense sums. He appealed to gentlemen
who had commanded militia and continen
tals in the late war to declare which ap
peared to them the most efficient troops —
the gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Parker)
who had spoken in favour of the resolution
before the houfc, he said in one inflance in
the late war, if he recollected right, had no
great reason to boast of his companions
He mentioned, as the cxpence,
the walte of (tores, inseparable from cxpe
ditions with militia, as well as walle of
lives.
The settlement of Kentucky, he said,
which had been prote&ed by militia, had
cost more blood than the whole American
war, he believed. If the number of live 3
loft in that undertaking could be compu
ted it would make the refledting ihudder.
Something had been said of the tardy
nature of military operations with regular
troops, and it had been remarked, that an
expedition this year had not been effected.
He attributed this to the llowneis of the
recruiting service owing to the clamour
raised against the war by those opposed to
the present system. Besides, the govern
ment had been blamed for not (hewing pa
cific dispositions towards the Indians and
had withheld the war, to procure peace by
treaty, a vain hope.—But several attempts
had been made on our part to procure
peace. The fate of Harding, and others,
were melancholly evidences of this truth :
But the certainty was, as it appcarad to
him, that the Indians must be forced to
make peace, they would not be quiet of
choice.
A gentleman from Virginia hadobjefted
to a refpe£lable military eftablilhment, be
cause it would produce an increase of mi
litary among the BritiOi and Spaniards to
the north and south of us. This was no
reason with him, why the United States
(hould not make themselves refpc&able in
theeyefofthe Indians.
Some years since, they told us of their
[ confederacy, and to think of no separate
treaties—to keep on our fide of the Ohio.
We now flatter ourselves with peace, be*
cause they have told us they will treat—but
in what language, and by whom di£lated,
I am forbid totrlf, the doors were closed
when we received it.
The fame gentleman had also mention
ed those enlifling in our service as worth
ies chara£lers ; the sweepings of the
ftrcets, Scc. They appeared to him as
refpe&able, he said, as the generality of
those who turned out in the American
war.
He made some fifther observations on
! the comparative excellence of regulars and
militia, and brought some further infta:ices
into view in support of his opinion.
Abuses, it had been intimated, had
crept into our army ; no army could be
totally free from abuses, he observed, and
he gave it as his opinion, that the army of
the United States was as free from them
as mod, especially when its distance from
the feat of givernment was confidcred.
He concluded by a recapitulation of the
sentiments he had exprefied, and which
should influence him to vote against the
motion. Especially as the system had
been adopted after mature consideration.
To change it now would argue that when
it was firll adopted, it was done with unbe
coming bafie, or (hew a great inflabllity.
The Indians would laugh at us as ihconfift.
rrit, and might be induced to give us the
epithet of petticoat men, and no longer coat
men.
In some part of his argument, he ex-
I prefled it, as his opinion that notwithr
j '.landing appearances to the contrary, we
should not have peace very soon.
To be continued.
♦" 1 • 1 M.l, | , m
meteorological observations.
January 1793.
D. til Bar. [Tier. I Wind. llVeatb.
Tuesday, 2. 7 30. 1/ 27 N.W ICloudy.
2 30. 24' 30 N. I do.
r/edtujdoyt 2. 7 3 C - 1 30 S.VV ,ha;r.
2 30. °6 41 dc. [Cloudy.
Tburjduy, 3. 7J 30. 42 30 N.li. \Chudy.
' 33 \do.R«'w,
Friday, 4. >" 19. 75 38 calm Rain.
?. 20- 6 41 S.VV. Cloudy.
Saturday, 5. 7 29. 9' 35 N. W. J Fair.
2 2Q. 95 42 W. \Cloudy.
Sunday, 6. 3c. j 33 W. Cloudy*
2 ~,0. c 47 dn. Fair.
Monday, 7. 7 2995 33 S.W. Fair.
2 29* 92 51 do. do.
CHARLES BITTERS,
No. 120, South Market, near Fourth street,
Has received from New-York, and ma
nufactured by Lot Meriel,
A large and general afl'ortnient of
Muffs and Tippets, Trimmings
and Edgings,
Great Coats, Caps, Mitts ana Gloves iin«d
with Fur, which he will fell,
Wholesale and Retail,
at the lowest prices.
Nov. 24. 2a\vtf
Soon -will be published
TltE SVSTF.M OF
Ujcd by Mr. Lloyd, in taking dczun the Debate^if
Cungrcfi
AS\ STEM so easy, that any man, of ordina
ry capacity, may clearly comprehend it in
'naif an hour, and soon practice it, in its fulleft
extent, without any further inftru<slion, than whar
wi;l be conveyed in a tew pag< s,—:he whole ART
being compriled ir. eighteen f.wpie ckara&en, with
out any of thole perplexing, arbitrary marks, with
which the learne: a of ether systems arc tbliged.to
burden their rr»c*riory, and emb.arrafs their prac»
tice.
Price, to Subscribers, Or.c DoiL r : —to Non-
Subfcriberfi, a Dollar and'half.
Su'ofcriptions received by IVleiTrs. Rice. Book*
fellers, Maiker-ltreet, sua by
JOHN CAREY, No. 26, Pcar.ftreet,
Hilf a Dollar to be paid at the time of
fublcribing.
A FEW COFIES OF THE
TRANSACTIONS
Of the Society infiituted in the State of
New-York, for the promotion of
AGRICULTURE, ARTS, and MANU
FACTURES,
May be had at this OiFi ce.
[Price half a DOLLAR.3
Jan. 5- ____
For [ale, at the printing o//ice, a few copies
of the firjl •volume of the National Gazette,
PRINTED BV
CHILDS AND SWAINE,
AT THEIR OFFICE NO'. 209, HIGH-STREET
NEAR riFTH -STREET,
PHILADELPHIA*