By P. FR£ N E A U : (at No. 209, Market Street) Publijked. Wednesdays and. Saturdays, [Three Dollars per annum.~\
N-jMfi. 73 of Vol. ll.] WEDNESDAY, [uly 10, 1793.
French Si. Domingo Affairs.
[Continued from our lalt and concluded.]
PROCLAMATION of the Natf«nnl Civil
Commifiioner POLVF.RKL, piveu tit
Aux Cayes y the c,th of March r 7V3-
(With remarks.)
IN the NAME of the NATION'.
rOLVFRrt, National Cm'
C ommifliojier, delegated to the Frcich
American leeward ifiands to re-ellablife
public order aud tranquillity.
"HA> INO foen the copy of a decree
parted on the 29th of January lafl by the
eitir.ens affemblcd in the parish church of
the town of Ciyes, signed Rolls,lN, preli
dent ; Efuault and Cotellc, secretaries,"
&.c. \Rernark :—A dictator, it seems, ts at
liberty to regulate every thing by his own
Vill, and adjttfl all laws to bis own lik
ing : for, only observe, commiffioier Pol
■verelin order to palliate his odious des
potism. does not dare to reuognize this
afiembly of united citizens as a commune
legally convoked and authorized by the
municipality. 1
" Artcl eonfidering (continues the procla
mation) the obligations which the united
citizens have laid me under rd denounce to
the tribunals of the colony fiich persons as
ft all ft.it>d ar b? guilty'''' [fynohi
mius wrdi, itietms. in the new French
refi' blica'! aifiionarv~\ "of difaffeftion or
reliOam-e r n th& I ? w,' 1 s again \
"or fufpeftect of being the authors of the
troubles in the colonies 1 * fit it a urpnder
the thovght did not »ccj< rto aim to accuje us
&y name~\" which is a formal difubedience
to the law, a criminal attempt againlt nati
onal authority," fbig worth to of
fended dignity of tke riiHatbr~\. ''finre tTiy
Jaw declares tliat all crimes ef that nature
are those of Lcze nation, ami that it enjoins
me to fend the guilty to the lejitlative body,
to whom alone it belongs to decide whe
ther there be or b<? not can't of acdufatio'n
fcertainly the law has acted very wrongly ;
for it would hav£ been much k-fs absurd
to have sent out tllefe national civil con
ciliating commidioners accompanie«f with
She gitilletine, t™judge ill Hie most fumina
ry manner, and 011 the spot those that
fliotild appear to them to be guilty. In
this view a guillotine and a judge are fyno-
Tiimous terms also]
" C oflfidering furcJier that .the pretence
they have made of obliging me to give an
account of my conduct to the citizens of
the several diftrifts of St. Doratngo, and
my motives for orders of arrett. or for
thofr fufpenlions which the fevertty of «u
---jniniffry may require me to make, is an
offence againll the law, which commands
,vne to account to none except to the ley,if
Native body; ar.d considering also, that it is
a deliberate 3ttack upon the sovereignty of
tie French nation, whose reprefencativet
Jiave referred to themselves the exeluftve
right ofre-judging my proceedings.and that
the contrary would be the readiest mean:
to render ineffectual all the powers with
■which the law has invelted me
Considering again. that according to thf
old monarchical conflitutjon of France, the
public functionaries cannot fuffer depriva
tion but by forfeiture duely adjudged, thai
they ran only be suspended by an admittec
nccufation; &that a law adapted to circum
funces(and which the events of the 10th oi
August had madt neceflary) has authorize
tRe civil commiifioners to fnfpend provifi
onally the public functionaries, and ti pro
vkie for their re-inftatement on conditio!
that the legislative bodv should be forth
with informed thereof."—[Under the ol<
jrovernment Lettres de ca.het were alft
laws ofcirttimflance ; or rather is this pre
tended fort of law any thing more th-it:
merely'a republican Letter de cachet, wh'u I
delivers up all the colonifh to the sole hi--
will and plrafure of Mr. Stephei
polverel—bow absurd to suppose so 1] '
Considering moreover that the nation
al convention, which is not at all bound ! j
the monarchical constitution since a rrpub
lican confiitution has bem. formed"—[Bur.
captiou' declaimer, confefs nlfo, that until
tilio conflitut'on was marie, the < <»n ention
deK.lired that all such articles of the firti
conftitHtion, which were not cxprefsly a
bolished hy particular edi.-.5. fiu/t.ld he in
fore* 1 ; and do not make the convention a
creature as violently monOrous a,~d absurd
as yourfeir] ''the convention (you go on;
has authorized the minister of the marine
not to suspend provifioiially, but to ttirs?
out of office, and replacewith others, fuel,'
«f the public functionaries ui the leeward
iflaneh wjiofe fide vy m~y be ftifpeQed ;
and that on this fnbjedt the niinifter has in
verted the national civil commilfioners with
c 'ipetent powers"
[Alas ! instead of seeking to juftify. as
you do in the succeeding paragraph, a prin
ciple Co absurd and (hocking in legislation,
that the Turk himfelf would rot venture
to reduce it to a written la%v; instead of
letting the law in this odious point of view
'.vhich a ill forever disgrace ihe memory ct
your infant republic, aud will be aJUmiing
evidence to all future a'res of the fname
lefs tyranny of certain hot headed charac
ters, who preferred to force upon us, rather
than apologize or, a law evidently pro
ceeding from the gloomy hearts 01' those
lame men who have as much dilhonoied
the facrtd c'iara£ler of as in
their private lives they have forfeited the
reputation of iioneft men—irdlead of a£feng
luch a part, I fay, you fiiouid out of re
fpeil to the whole body, (loathe yourfelf
ill mourn,ng, as a token that under liic:;
law, vl ; fn.iil foo:i fee the empty phantom
of French ii-berty dilappear. line out
of refpsil to a people that are really free.
I pass over fevcra! more leav
ing what I have fa:d to their judgment.]
" Oonlidering also (proceeds tlie procta
mati'ii:) thatthe signature oi the prelideni
and the two Secretaries of the alfembly are
appended to the decree and petition ; i: '
a lull proof that they arjr the thjee person:
moll criminal, anil that therefore there i
no neceflitv of our increasing the numk/
EECL AKf D, chat as far as respects pub
lic I will ~pi permit a lingle
one to remain in the toTixiy whole attic/i
---ment to tiie French rcpiiblic is not cleai
and unequivocal. I have not ordered the
ftifpenfiou of one of them ■sutlhout
notwithtlanrlinjj the litis o£_
anrl r,r)twic!.rt:tn<' , i: g the urgent wilhes ol
tlijf-fctizens, expreded aloud"—[Good God
what a government nmfl that be, where
thegenerat of the citizens is collect
ed froin profcripMijjl lifts, and a man muf
he convicted v, klwtit being a!!o\vc.' to en
rer a plea against and, wirhoui
i hearing or proof, nmft ).e' from hi:
habitation and sent off, and charg.
:d yvith the crime of treason ■:he
lacion " Altho' the decree did noi
mthorize me to suspend from ofhee with
out proof, yet it now authorizes me to pal!
sentence of deprivation upon all .public
?ancV;on#ries whose fidelity is fiifpected. v
which 2bfolves from the troublWome ie
ctffity of proof— what a law 1 uy ;gaio!
Gut does it really mean that a man lhali
ae fa lieu away from his affairs & fenr gooo
miles upon a charge of fufpicioii ? It wa:
agfinft this unprecedented tranfpcrtatioi:
■>f citizen Marfolai that the commune ol
C;jes principally rertlUnftrated : aud it
was in tjonfequence of this proclamation
that the officers of the aflen.b'y of the com
mune, lire theinfelves accused of the crime
of Leze nation-—bt t let us go on with the
procn nation.j tl 'l lie new powers with
which lain inverted are pofitivc, f.rifllj
impartial. mid know no refpeef to person: ;
and they do n»t deny me the privilege oi
fatisfyinji the withes of all true republicans
at the fame tiim- that I exercise the pow.
etsthat have been delegated tome, wit!
tirmnefs.: —I <lee.Ure therefore, that citi
zens Rnlloin, K f l uiit, and Corelle appeal
tome guilty" Us the guillotine, he n eaus'
"of attempt- agviisft the n.-.tiona, 1 sove
reignty, and of pl<As tending to diftityb the
peace of the colony ar.c! excite a civil wai
againrt the republic, by arming certain ei
tizens againrt the ex&.uti'oii of th« lawfu.
authority of the delegates t>f the nation
In consequence of which'l hereby deprive
the fa.el h-fnault cis liis office at attorney ir
the Senechsl jurifdiition aijd admiralty 01
Csyes. I ORDAIN that, as veil he u
the laid Rolloin and Coteile flia.'l be V.\,l
under arrert and sent on board rite frigate
ol the republic, Le -Surveillant, there to bi
fafely kept imtill t!» earfieft opportuiiM\
fiiall offer (or (hipping them off for France—
and on their arrival, to be put into the firll
i'ood and f. ffirient prison that mt \ 'je con
v ar.;ent to the p l ate ef the A If.oiio ol the
national convention.- eat Cav
es, Jlu 4' hof March, 1-93, the- lirlt ytai oi
the v epubhe.
(Signed) POLVERFL.
(A lit\le Tvwer was written by the n. ti
onalcivii coiiMmllionei,) Polverel, jtin.
I certif tl.is iopy to be a true extract,
and agreeable ti the pvilirtcl copies which
I forwarded to the national cotuention.
J. L. COTI.LLE.
Che/lertown, (M(iry4wd) June 9, 1793. '
For the National Gazette.
Mr. FnfcNEAt?,
r THE day is tome when every American
x fhoiitd rouse from the lupine lethargy
sf fen years ; tlie tijne when every repub
lican fhou.'d (hake off that (loth and indif
ference that has for a season enveloped his
.enfes, and turn an attentive eye to li
tuations, perhaps critical to liberty, and to
:hara£ter.>., pei iiups dangerous to republics.
How uimilpiuous were we but yeftcr
ilay of the integrity und principles of Come
men, and how far were, we from fiippof
ing that there was a (ingle resident in rinit.
"icy. that was a friend lo despots, or inimi
:al lo tlie breffiug of a iree government 1
France, tliu' her thrill clarion of liberty,
las scarcely been able to penetrate the dens
'ars of Americans, and invite them to a
.■ie.v of tlie horrors of that precipice, t'j
which the foes of nature & of man,uii.kr ihe
netendedfunction offriendlhip,were lei d
ng them blindfold-, the victims o/incaution
md inexperience.
The perilous lituation, however, of our
rieiul and benefactor in the days of atlver
ity, has uripped off the malk from these
ecret work.rs of iniquity; & from her
t> uggles are we taught to know anddiltin
;uilh who are the enemies of mankind.
But !■■■■ifwiicftanding, we (Till appear
ignorant, in ;• great il--gree. of the cir liens,
LHid are to;> inattentive to tlie busy aftivitj
of these tinbluOiing enviiaries, wh« pre
fumeto come forth In the face of United
America to oiuVininate the?.- peftileotial
Joetrines. and to poilon tlie very vitals ol
iliat government, which the choice of a
11 ee people has eitabtilhed for their protec
tion, and which »i,gkt to diftlain the (belter
of c/„;adtjj:»e operation. Tbrfe emifli
ries have already Capped the principles ol
pure republicanism as far as their inlluenre
eould go. They scruple not to declare a
lotid their weight in the governmental feale
of influence, and have set republicans a!
defiance by theinfulting exhibition of the
laitreat adui ition of,Go<l/ave king George!
( oilld that heart be of American texture
which did not swell with indignation pud
horror at the unparelleled degree of info
ience wiiicht dared to tell us in our own
prints, that they had publicly celebrated
tlie anniversary of monarchy in the very
".ei.tre of a republican comury, and that
they touted the monarch on the Very spot
where bis sword h;,d but recently (l:td a
deluge cfb'ood, ami among that people
who e lives had paid the forfeit of his dif
pleafnre! Ti? thus we are ififitlted with
adoration paid before our faces to that be
nevolent author of the late war, whose
wifli it was to teach his American Juijeiti
the duties of son-refinance by the delibe
rate methods of rapine, blood ord murder.
'Tis those (laves of tyrants Who openly
avijw the wiihes, and perhaps the inten
tion of their matters, who, fhoitld they
vanquilh The foes of'monarchy in Europe",
hope to exterminate the liberty of mankind!
and chain the generous democratic Ameri
can with the vile ariltocratic (lave 5 ol i'.n
rope.
Nothing but the psfrie spirit which the
power of neutrality enforces, and a full
confidence iH the fuccefsof the confederated
legions againd France, could produce filch
wiac.hWfs pivfumption or encourage agents
ami-: g us to ofeer fuchanopen infuit to the
feniijiients of a nation that has so lately
fn itched its neck frcm iheigriominiousyoke
Ot royalty, ami lipped the sweets of tree
ilo:u unmingled with the gall of slavery.
Were such characters only infiguificant
PA ty-puffers, or unprincipled persons,
p i. 1 in led with the gold of foreign despots,
Itiil they are ofcje&s of suspicion, and call
for more attemion than tonfifts with (j,n
---pl» i 'iffidenee.—Never did our independ
enoe know a time more critical than at the
prt ft i t day, and never were the time;
lliore \ rolilic thaii that at present, in gjvinj
birth t '•> political incendiaries. Caution,
circuit I peilion, ar>d the ntn.oft pridcnct
ffliould France f ill) v. ill feared/ (ave m
frevn tlKVfe gorf 011 munfters, or us ii:
that r"et!ii.m iter, l.y w luth we may efcapc
the gi\ «!y fangs of ambitious a: A avaricious
tyrant;.
Now i the time that our farrcd palladi
njn i . tri (. - fecc.rcd: no v i> the time ill. 1
■ilerty is I.ffet on all (ides; in rr ncel -
tue Imoi.li of dcf| ots ; in America, bv
intri ne, i; a hination, •• nd the pandemonic
councilv of emifiaries : now there
ire is the tirtS to feenre the veilal purity
wfour cqpnny.'Vom the rapacious power
>f her enemies.' by guarding the a\ enue<
t-i her tcpij. W V.iri'i '.he spirit cl' free me:;
[Total Numb. 177.]
brandifhinp the sword of vengeance over
guilty intruders; or by expelling the vise
iiKfiollors trom a land in which they have
no (hare, no inrerel), no deftre but that cr
enslaving its inhabitant 0 , deluding its ruleri,
and infilling into the very vita!s of the £c>
v eminent, the deftruclive vencin of cou#t
influence.
Americans! arotife from the dull lan
at arcomp ' ties feenrity, learn to
Mtingu lh ycur true friends, and watt It
with p jealous eye the sycophants of the
prefect hour, and the duplicity of those
who pretend-a friendly regard for Ame
licaand are butchering the friends of free
dom. Should goverr.ment ih.nk j > oper to
hear with the infinit* ai.d abuies of a h-.iifh
iy toe, and connive at their oppu-iin e acts.
Ji.dc r the of nentraiky, let us N
i'.Ke !reen:en, individuality li.tw the fpiriu
ut firiilnefs and reiolution. by un;inimonffiv
letting ourselves to counteract the conufei's
11 t "°, fe . court-fed minions, by expofinc
-ie vi.luny of their dt%i s by pt blilhi;."
.o tne woi Id the diftintlive marks by which
hey may be known, and by defeating thoU;
nany artful inlinimions and wiles by which
ey feck to bewilder and millead all those
i*oiri the light of reaioii, have a pro-
Jeulity to lepubticaniim.
Poliefied cf this diagnostic spirit—the
p.l it of i.jvefiioation and difcernineut we
nail at once discover the myilerious ma»-
let that attracts theft iron-hearted friends
rom the abodes of monarchy : we (lw.ll be
eel to form a proper judgment of the cha
■atter, ajli} fufpett the visit of him, uhofe
ove for royalty catifed him to desert Ame
i a in her llruggle for liberty, and to tl/c~
ate such coi.dwft to the immortal Walli
rigtaii, as none but Arnold. Di ckc, or Du
mouner could Hoop to follow !
Be hoTdjfit /.g od -1 iic s champion of moner
.•hy, tins cfflcftial intercefibr. has returned
among those whom he once called '-the
Iregs of America,,-"the lowed of the
jeoplc —among those who, according to
lim, were "without principle, without
:bnrage —for what ?-Not, I hope, from
imilarity of priniiple-for I would fain
h:nk mere charitably of the fervan's cf
: fnrefy not for the love of cowardice :
rue, religion forbids the thought. If he
neans once tnjre to inculcate thole holy
marines which marked his departure froni
imtricii, he will find more infidels than
hat general\ w hoJe inpiety refxftcd this
i;illr. ;:ary of political fantfity. He will
ind thoufanrls equally bigotted to that hoy
id caj rom of refilling oppreflion, and com
jatiDg iniquity, and paying their adoration
ather to the rights of man Chan to thole
>f delpsts.—Americans; lctjuftice attend
fflltr fci u r tu;y : but lot that scrutiny feiett
or you proper objccls ol'friendfnip and
ritiijiat:o|i.
VJRGIKIUS AMiIRICANUS.
June 27th, 1793.
oi'i the NCKFOLK Advertiser ~
are informed that MefTrs. Weji and
Btvvai will in a few days open the
Sew Theatre ; as a friend 10 the Drama;
Mt'» « e!l wither to the managers, whoso
attention ; n contributing to the amusement
sf the public, h is always merited the moji
liberal patronage, I (hall trouble )ui wkh
a few remarks.
In every age the flag? has been the school
of instruction, as well as feme of atnuf.'-
ment. At on? time vice and folly are ex
pofetl for the bentfic of moral improve
ment, at another time the heart is fofteiud
and humanized by the representation of
pirtne in diflrefs. Sometimes the ftzre
becomes the fcheol of patrrotjfrii, when;
the virtues of our ancestors are revii...,
and tl;e political creed of a nation is n -
liearled. On thejudprm :it of managers in
felefling proper fui.'jefls for representation,
the appiopciatiou of the public mult ex
pend— great attention fliould be
nothing which is adverse to the geuins and
government of a free country (liouUl be ex
hibited 'n a meritorious 1 ght: — For exam
ple, the ancient Romans would hav? cOn
ceivcil thf mfelves much irifuUed hadtKv
been colieihd to ha\ e (een the expul/icii
us the Tarquins repreferted as a of
-ompcflion ; nor would the modern French
be flatter, (I in Jiearing the decapitation of
I.oui-, and the ini|-riiohment of Maria
Antoniette, trag (ally lamentfd, and
then selves cal'ed inffisns and murt'erers.
Repi blican Americans would be very iiule
gratiiiec! with the 1- ombaflickl rhapli dies of
loyalty for kin;;s and princes, or their ima
ginary diftrefies; and democratic \ rrv,9
■vould. illy suit a roy«i audivuff at l-'ruiy
iane-.It has been said that the managers havejf
determined, if pollible, to give fatisfactio 1 t
to ail parties ; —lt is hoped that we are ,
Kat to be infitlted by feeing a set of itine- ,
rant people, reliding here for the purposes |
of trade, or brought here by accident, ex- 1
alted into the d : giiity of a party. Toufe
an old adage—" When we are at Rome,
we mult do as thev do in Rome;" and
men of fe'ife will readily acquiesce.
The allies of the French will be as much
tlifgufted to fee a Frenchman reprefenfed
as a monkey, as an Engliilimau would lie
to fee him represented as a rational being—
'• Goii save tke ii/ig" will be ;>• unpleasant"
to some as "Cairo" wou!«l be to others.
I do not with to regulate the publis talte ;
but I am fafe in faying, that the managers
vught to consult the difpolkion of the au
tlience. I own it is unfortunate for us,
that depending oil thi English dramatic
writers, we are, as Americans and friends
to France, oftencommpelied to hear tilings
xvliich are as inlulting to our own feelings,
as tiley are illiberal towards our frie'-ids ;
—Hut a little attention in om tting some,
and qualifying others, would not be unde
fervOujj the notice of judiciaus luanagera.
EXTRACT.
[Prom the Virginia Gazette ]
In an a Idrefs from the Baltimore Me
ch mic il Satiety, to the PrefWent of the
V lited States, will be found the following
pdlY;e : "But the miferieiof war, we de
pre.at;, a id circHiH tanced as oiu* country
a id government are, the generous French,
will irquiefce with :he American citizens
in t!ie acicnowled ;em?nt of that political
truth, which y >u have so wifeiy enjoined
that the duty and interelt of the United
States require, that we (hould, with lince
rity and good faith, adopt and pursue a"
<>idu:V friendly and impartial towards the
b'lligerent powers." Tha language of
t lis address seems to indicate, after a ten
v y • trs peace, in the course of which our
<oil 11 try has incfeaf din the proportion of
©ne third ih population, attd with the ad
dition of its fertility aid other resources, '
mall have doubled its strength, that we
ought notwithitanding. so far to deprecate
the evils of war, as that ill order to avoid
tie n, we (hould tamely fubmil to every
iadignity and infiilt, which the pride and
arrogance of Britain may think proper to
offer.
Is not the erroneous po.ltlon. laid down
in jultiHcation of oir conduit toward
the French, that circumltanced as our
country and government are, it becomes
O'lr duly and interefl to adopt and pursue
with linearity and gooif faith, a cond.icl
friendly and impartial towards the bell -
gereit powers, as strong an invitation to
the British to mfult and invade us a» they
could desire ?
What are those «f our
count y and government which lhould in
<l ace us humbly to fiibmit to the imperious
«I.elates of a petty tyrant on board of an
armed Sritiffi velfel ? Shall we now tame
ly fulfer the inv-ilion of those rights which
twenty y»ar> ago we so ob.linately and
properly defended ?
Tlie Freuch want no apology from us
for refilling them aili.tance—perhaps they
■want 110 a!fill3nce—»if they did, they would
3iave to lament that we want fpirlt to re
sent the insults offered to ourselves, and
therefore will h.-.rclly exptfl u., from a
principle of gratitude, or even in compli
ance with a lolemn treaty, to aflift them.
However neceflTiry it may be from duty
and interest for the Americans to adopt
and purlue an iinptrtial conduct towards
the belligerent pouers, I trust it will hard
ly I>e in their dilpo itions to view with sin
cerity of friendihip the conduct of those
powers who have provoked war for'the
purpose of forcing defpoUfm 011 uiankiiid.
EXTRACT.
from the Southern Ce.ntinel, printed at
A igiLjla, in Georgia : June 13.
When the misfortunes of a large and res
pectable community are to be "attributed
ta the conduct of a single indivi«lual, it is
our duty not only to animadvert on his
m" ifures, but to trace the fotirce from
■wtience these misfortunes flow If " a
great m in (truggling in the storms of fate
J- a light 0:1 which the gods might look
down with pleasure ; with what indigna
tion might they not behold that wretch
who, "roni the fordid view of gain, would
furifiet" the lives of his fellow citizens and
open a scene of savage cruelty 1
With a pitient endurance of fhfirering
a?gravated by circumstances the moH in
fulting, Ihe people of Georgia have f.ir a
contiJerabl • time been expefed to the fe
ro. ityof savages without the means of
felf -defe-ce. Or the pou»i- of retaliation
At this ltlpment, when our frontiers are
la.d wade with murder and devaltation •
when men, wonen and children, are put
to the mo ft cruel tortures; a law is 111
exiften-e, prohibiting a citizen of the Hate
of Georgia from touching a Creek Indian
on pain of being given up to the mercy oi'
those ravages. This law alio furiiiflies the
Creek* with arms and ammunition to kill
the Georgians, but it makes no previous
for the Georgians to kill the Creeks, in
cafe of an attack. ■ If this law is conlillent
with the principles of a free government,
or with civilization, or with any thing
that bears the name of humanity, then are
my arguments without foundation.
The treaty of New-Yoris has been pro- ,
ductive of more ill confequ«nces to this
llate, than Britilii devaltation and plunder.
It was not the deliberate and mature act
of a wife legislative body, but the hatty
eSufions of a man who bore no good will
to Georgia.
The next wife meafiire planned and a
dopted in the fam# department, was the
appointment of an agent for Indian affairs;
in which exalted office James Seagrovc,
ESQUIRE, was placed. By wkatinterell
or by what recommendafion, Mr. Sea
grove came to the appointment, is not my
present pnrpofe to inquire into; "What
Ins former merits were I neither know
nor care ; but were we to judge the man
by his conductance a federal officer, we
(hould not be apt to pronounce his princi
ples pure and uncontaminated.
Tuat he commenced Indian trader, as
soon as he was coinmitfioned, is a fait
well afcertaineri 4 That, with a view to
monopolize that trade himfclf, he made
life representations to the exe
cutive department, of the hellile difpoliti
on ol the Indians towards thisftate, carries
with it the air of probability;— That he
lias violatt; 1 the trult reposed in' him. 1
leave his fellow citizens to determine: But
that l»e hasa&ed unworthily of a free citi
zen and a public officer, is-a point I will
maintain.
1 1
To the Editor ef the National Gazette.
.<? 1 R,
, THE event which I hare been long atiti
-7 ciptting is flattening upon us, and in a
, little time, «nlefs the people (liake off this
lethargy, uelhali be plunged into ununni
-7 tural war with Franc*, and we x fhall fi-d
ourselves a member of the combination o!
tyrants. The einbarrslstnents which have
, been jludlonjly thrown in the way of the
. Freuch here favour the opinion, and the
I long-winded Machiavelian elftvsof wri
, ters who are any thing but republicans,
I and who would facrifice the liberties of
, their country for their own aggrandize
ment, give countenance to my afi'eition.
j rhe inftrumetrtality of certain tmlf'orii >
now among 11s, lias perhaps facilitated the
present holtile meaiures, and has rendered
s their voyage to America not ufelclsto their
employers. I flWd be glad know
t why our executire was so patfivewberi rhe !
brig Little Sarah was arming here, altho' j
, w •'> Bn'tijh bottom, ant! commanded
- by a notorious The inter
ruption whlcn was intended to be given her (
by the executive, now she is converted in—
. ra tht.LJtth Democrat, is trulyn()oni(li:nj*.
~! N >tvvit!iftandii!g she belongs to the nation j
1 >f Franee, having been captured by one o r
rer and fitted out at her ©xperce
. yet fiich a British conftruftion has been pj.u
j upon the treaty; and at the hazard o> V>
volving us ia a contest ViWea
-5 voiir-s have been to pi cvetrt tyre fai
,, ling of ttm veflel. Why all ihis buille
! in<e the change of property? Perhaps
_ we had no British runners to convert the
I merchants, and light a blaze about it.
a Are two or tlu-ee hundred uierchans in
_ Pmladelpma to be the oracles of treaties
the depoiitaries of our national f'„i:h a'd
honour, and to give law to the United
; st,,tcs - the voice of the ftiil virnion
t yeomanry of A nerica. because they are
not within Hrsti»h inflrnrjientjility, to be,
drowned and unheeded. Machiavelianr,
beware I Americans have penetr tion
. enou S« to into y QU r policy, and virtue
- eiiouglvo resent it.
The militia of Philadelphia seem tm He
made the tools ofdefign and dillionour.
r allhoods are made life of to gain them
over to purposes which their fouls would
t revolt at, were thev not deceived. Wiiv
were they told that the Britidf failrrs in'-
tended to set the iliip William on fire, and
- that they were called upon to protect her,
when the fact was oiher wife, andthev were
s to hold tier in poffelfion for Britons, cor.-'
s trarv tn i reaty, and to give mortificaurm'
and mintlo our allies? Will the tnftitij
, of Philadelphia fnbmit to he the iiftru
ments of revenge for Britons ? Have th? y
- fix-gotten the lircumftances of the Icte re
volution ? Let it not be said of them tJa
[ they were the tools of minilterial pol/cv
to harfafs and difhefs the faviotirs of our
1 country.
The miniffer of France. I hops, wil'l acl
"ith tirmnefs and with fpi/it. The peo
ple fx • his friends,or the jriends of Fi Mice,
and he wilt have notj-tfug ..to apprehend:]
7 , A" y et t ' ,e P ro P' .' are the fiivcru en 0 I
the U uteri States. Too much compiayen ►
L y ls '" 1 '"J'TV d'yne his canfe, for as (lfU
advantage isavendftaken of Franco („Jl
by the further 1 niaV'
lead to ahufes. If one of tj- e lead-'
1 ing features of our government is nufil
ty V' e " the British ' ion f '»» ' >•»
ieet.l, -t France and her ast as
becomes the dignity apd jii(ii/. e of their
caute, and the honour «ild laitj"; of rations.
JVBA -
PHILADELPHIA. j
Wednesday, July 10.
By the arrival of the schooner '
capt. Jones, in 12 days from Cape Fran- ,
cois, we have received the melancholy in
telligence of the burning of thatonce beau
tiful town, by the Mulattoes. Several
palfengers have arrived in the Ea£le, who
were glad to save their .Jives and leave all ]
their property to be deilroyed. There
were alio above no fail of merchantmen, (
who were obliged to leave the Cape, under |
convoy of some French Ihlps of war : ma
ny of thole merchant velfelsput to sea with j
Uiort provisions ami without half the quan- .
tVty of •Svater necelfary to bring them to
the American ports, although they are in
general lull ol paiiengers who tied from (
the toi flagration. Hundreds were Jh^;t bp
the Mulattoes, on their way as they ran
from their houses towards the boats—for
as soon as tlie town was tired in several
places, particularly on t'ne 23d ult. the
white inhabitants ran out into the ftreels
dillracted, and were barbaroully murdered
by the Mu'attoes, without refpeft to fjx,
age,or condition.
It is d.fficult, as yet, to arrange any
thing like s co inetted account of tais
dreadful cata(h"o|)he. Bnt so far as can
be colleiled from the [jafl'engers, and from
<;apt- Jones, it appears, that the whole ori
ginated from some jealotify between gene
rat Galbaud, a id tiie co'irimifiioners San
thonax and Polvcrell, who behaved very ill
to him and the wh.tes, as wed as to the
admiral »f the llert.
Some fay th3t Galbaud had entered into
some contrail:; for flour, duringthe abtence
of the commiilioners, while they w ere at
the fourli li<>e of the island. This they
diia.pprovrd of. Others liatc, that
general Galbiud li.id . '.1 eftatein the Spacifli
part of the island, he could not be quali
fied to hold the conmiiffion he has from tie
French Republic. Be this as it may, the
cojnmiluoiiers ordered him to be arreted
and sent back to France. But during tljefe
disputes. which lasted from the 17th tu'the
:4th of June,-other fcc'nes of diflrefs were
fling in every quarter—Several fajjor..
vere insulted by the Mulattoes, and cut
with fibres ; complaints were made to
he coivnni(fi.>ners in. vain,, for they were
twtally devoted to the Mulattoes' interest,
a id won.d scarcely hear a word from a
white perfan ; nay, they insulted the 1110 ft
refpeilable merchants tint cjme to them
,*ith complaints againli the Mulattoes ;
this encouraged the latter to the greatefi
<legree of insolence. and they began to f--c
tht town on the 20th', in Tome pdacc* : the
idnorrat now ordered all the li^rchant (hips
.way from the ;ac o s.en, failorj
and lohliert, were landed to fupprefr the
Mulattoes, but tfiey -rere grown to.o pnw
eilul, and a lir>»-v bee commenced which
1 Med nenrif toirr days—Galbaud'i brother
■vas t.JfT n prisoner. We do not yet heai
v'.vfiv. become ol him, neither can it be
said whether the comiriiffioiiers
joined the mulattoes and IJacks, al
though there is reafun to. fuppef* it. A
dreadful (laughter was the consequence,
and it is feared that verv few white peo
ple have efctped—The (nocking ftenes of
lonely women and children running Jroqi
There burning habitations in dHlraftiMl aixl
their being (hot down in the llreetj, wbs
too rrffefti g to be related.
The grand (lores & fliops were deftrrjy
id £*i over the p'ate, and in fail it vis,
entirely confirmed (he 23d and 24tji Of last
month, when captain Jones failed.
Some are ofopinion that the admiral did
lot behave right, and they think that if he
- iad threatened to bsmbard-tlie town.iijliead
of fending men on liiore, lit would have
prevented this miserable fate oj' so many
thoufandsoi the people. It is nethewever
eafv to afce; tain any real (late of the aiFair
un 1 we receive further acconntf.
With regard to the EngUfn attempting
in inviiiipn, it is 3 ridigulr'ns idea, tor it
would cod a to ]-',y the expenfet
of getting a tolerable footing on St. Do
mingo with fin army.
The general Galbar.tl v ashighly esteem
ed byrn ny, an.l thj? en mini (Honors abo
minated for many of their proceedings,
! - particr latiy, the e.nlntrying 400 of the B i
;jands from priOn, who intfaiitjy joined
ttie Mulattoes 1/ t'reir'plunder. ai:d mur
dering b i! bari ty.
The Eccm/nts further- ft; te. that the
reason of G /ibnid's hein? difaiill'ed by xht
commiffioyers <va his haying Oeen aid-de-
to yencrni Dumouritr, and his prin
, iples w ere fufpecltd.
The. miserable fate of the whites may
n a measure Lieattiibittd to the.ii
, obftjliiate hatred and op|>olitnin of every
, 1 a v.-• ;uid ei ery attempt made by the ci ui
;niilioiiE». to rellore the tree Mulattoes to
the natural rights of citizenfnip to which
■ they were not oaly bom, but have doub/v
qnalitied theiufelves to enjoy the bhlliy s'a
of freedom. —Mary of tliofe Mula/toes
• have received very liberal ednctitUms., and
wonkl make a refpsfiablej fly,ire in
'any (lation of life. Eut a;l t;,at tould be
• done, could never bring :fe whites to
; jvrmit them to tho conioit p privilege ol
■ nun.
This, although it n< counts jn some de
gree for the origin of the troi bl es at the
Cafe, yetit vviii have I,° with the
hroiMne .ieart, m aton ii g for the afeoniim
ble cruelties rne Mulattoes have commit-*
ted, and which, it is probable will operate
more p.gainii their liberties, and keep theiit
the iu a itate ot dependence.
/)■ AdvertrJ,rr.
The following is another Jlatemeat' cfthls
intelligence as given by capt. Jonts.
On the 7th of June, as the armed Mulat
tos were going out to lore Picolet, th-y
ueie met by several Tailors, who were in
liquor, and one of them joflleel againltone
ot tile men of colour; he immediately
tlivvv his hanger, and wounded him ; the
relt of tile faiiors immediate ly Itoned them,
and they tlevv. On the ißtii,a great number
of men of colour came on the king's wharf,
and gave themfome very iufoientlaiignage,
whicit was the cause of a quarrel : me
Mnlauoes being ail aimed, the fiulors had
to fly ; they leizcd one ot ihe marines be
longing to one oi the lhi|is of war, and
made him beg their pardo.j on his knees.
Alter the aaove, leveral of the inhabitants
that wei e ftandiiig at their doors, were
wounded by the Mulattos,—They went
to enter their complaints, and received 110
fatjslaciion. On cue 19th a proclamation,
was ilfued out by the commifi'aries : on the
-Oth, two hours after the faiiors lanned,
the coinmillariei opened ail the prisons,
and let the Brigr.ncs out, to dell.oy the
town and its inhabitants.
June *9. A proclamation from the two
commiliaiies, iMeiirt. Saiuhonax Snd Pol
verel, was read, ordering all officers snd
teamen 011 board ihsir relpeftive veflfels at
1 7 o'clock, P. M. 1 hey, thinking it an un
warrantable proceeding, would not com
ply u iih it. ..n oiticer oelonging to one
the French (hips, being in u public house,.
was accoftcd in a wry-familiar manner by
a Mulatto—negave him a pulh; on which
he drew, ga\e him a biow with hie
hanger on the arm. jhe officer then en
tered a complaint to the admiral, and oit
the lame da) the admirals waited on the
comiuiiiai ies £\\ ho v ere giving a concert
to the peop.t ot colour) to demand fatis
faction for the infuit, committed upon ope
ot the officers ol tile. fleet under his com
mand. The admiral* were sent awav
without any fatiUacliou. On the 20th, in
the morning, the two admirals waited
second time on the commiliaries, and were
sent aw ay almost w'lthetft a hearing. They
then repaired on board the liiips of \v ar
and immediately o. Jertd-a,I the ships that
were in Ikiore oi tliom, to remove out of
the way. ihe three 74 gun ships then
drew up in a line in order to cover the
landing if* any refinance was made. / t
><alf palt 3,, p. M. i hey nrmnrd their boats
and landed tiietr men to the number 0 f
2000. under the command of general Gal
bar.d, who <vas lent as general to the island
of Hifpaniola, &d-il',:o(ffeiled Q f j,isgovern
ment by the commiiiaries ; they thinking
Ins con,million not .(.ftiuent, and coninrr
£0 the laws of France. At a o'clock the
action began at tli; gbverfloieiit house, be
t'lV"en ttie r->nty and the
faiiors. Prevails to thi there was a
guard fitV-'tcd m ftich a fii.miicr, as to pre
vent the landing or embarki'iTE ofany per
sons oi property. Ob tire'2lft, a few
houlcs were let on fire. » n d at 4 o'clock s.
grejit number ofN"eg!*c*es were seen cann
ing into ttmrt, and on the 22d, in the
mora ng early, great bodies of revolted
Negroes were leen coming into town ■ and
at 12 o'c ock'the middle of the town was
.11 flames ; and on ihe cjdrlr v .h6le of the-
Cape m like ctfml.ii 0.1 A t nigjit, the fleet
all unmoored, and proceeded to s ea as faffc
as poliible, as there was information given
that the Mnliitfties and Negroes intended
burning the fleet if pofßble ; on the 24th,
at i in the morning, cai.ie out in company
with the } reneh fleer, in number 120 fail
oi men of war and men hannnen, bound
lor Philadelphia ; 011 the 2*»ih, at noon,
irtt tire French fleet under the Weft Cay
cos, and proceeded to Philadelphia.
the whoje of the above time (except on
the 2£d, at which time the faiiors left the
tor. n) t.e re was a continual I firing of can
non and fmal.l arm*, from the whites, who
;ad poileflion of the arietta!, a,sd a finali
fort aoove the town.
C. apt. Jones further informs, that the
office's belonging to rl,e British Hoop of
a ar, Hyas;;a, a prize taken into Cape Fran
cois, by the French men of war, were
laved by the f.tcateO Being
.-oncluaeit down.to tl,e American wharf,
°y (l,l " e °f tl«e Negroes wholpv'-? En?li(b
:hey immediately leaped off and were ta
irn up by the American boats, and eo\-
veyed 011 board the French iSips. Capr
janes fV.w a nuinher of the injisbitr.nts of
tin- Cape pref.. rved in the fame manner
The brjg Act We, Waters-; Hope, Pool, '
r, hooner Juihi, 1 anner. tmdtwo ichoonerl
'Belonging to Baltimore, eft the Cape with
I capt. Jones—all the other vessels that wer•
' there vvtret to Jeewai d.
Monsieur Rohejoe. n r nf;'rr- rr with
capt. Jones, was confined to hi? house un
til the 22.G, afterwards Gonciucled down to
the wharf by l-'uir.e trie.,wily Negroes, and
made tils efeape 011 board t.ie schooner, in
| forms, ihas the .Vi-jlattocs con.e to hi»
lioti e, axd alfed his Negroes if' ay were
• »ofrreaay~immediately upon wMchthey
bst u open the doors, and erc jaimrd " Vi
ve le Commiff.drie, ir is he who has trlveft
us liberty, and we will fight for him.""
Jones made very particular enqui
■ r) iOi the iatety ot the Aaiei icans, and isInppy t« inform, that all cfcapsd, exccpt
Nut and Miller, of Charleston (S.
C.) who were milling. He further adds,
tii it itis impolfible todefcrib? file cfifireffes
of the unli >v inhabitants of the Cape ;
every build, ig of consequence he saw in
fl ines, and the pjtfengers, by him, flew
to prcferve their lives.
Since the foregoing intelligence was
communicated we have heard further ac
counts bv the brig A&ive, capt. Waters,
and several other vessels : —
It is said that the British prifonprs at the
Cape, amongfl whom were the officers and
marines and feainen belonging to the pri
vateer Hvxna. (captured only a few days
before this melancholy event took place)
J>u: themselves under the command of a
British officer, and fought bravely by the
fide of the F'rench soldiery an<l f.iilorj under
" leral Galbuid, againlt the coiiimiifion
rs, mulattoes, and negroe.i. But Gel
band. had he flood out 5 minutes longer,
it is thought must have gained a vi£tory ;
he, however withdrew the troops and
"went 011 board the French ships of war, af
ter fighting three days, and with him took
the British officers, &c. who had so cou
rageoufly afiifted him.
Thisis a striking inllance of the uncer
tainty of human events, and the fate of
war —How remarkable to fee the French
and British soldiers and fajlors, who, but
a few <hys before were employed in the
trade of (laughtering one another, so soon
join hand and fight like brethren against
the nmlattoesand negroes' —
At the fame time that Galbruid quitted
thefceneof attion, it is said the commis
sioners, Santhonax and Polverel, also fled
with the soldiery under their command in
to the country, and thtr- the town of Cape
francuis bei.ig evacuate I by both armies,
was immediately exposed to the depreda
tions of the negroes, mulattoes, and bri
j!;and% who finding nothing! o oppose them,
rulhed in with demoniac fury and set fire
to i; in every quarter. —Had either party,
Calbattd's or the commiflioners succeeded,
this inoft unfortunate event would proba
bly not have happened.
Another American veiTi-1 is taken and
earried into Jamaica, the brig Defiance, of
ii iltirttore- She was I iden with sugar and
coffee, and bsund for Baltimore ; had on
board 30 negroes a id 8000 dollars in spe
cie. The i.nglifh privateers are very
troublesome to American vefiels among
the windward islands: several have been
very latelytaken and carried into St. Kitts.
»pd every ungenerous pretence made-use
of to hive the cargoes condemned.
Liters from England mention, that pro
duce of every fort there has aftonilhingly
declined in value. Jamaica, or St Do
mingo cotton will not bring more than from
ii to 13 pence prr lb", and impossible to
jijnke sales of that or almost any imported
article, there being no demand and the
Itocjc on hand very great ; added to which
the whole manufacturing buiiuefs of the
country is at a tiand.
On Sunday la'l arrived here a large brig,
call el the Mary, from J.imiica, taken
off the Delaware Capes by the frigate Am
bufcadc. Her cargo confilts of Wed-India
produce. The privateer Citizen Genet,
tias sent a prize into Baltimore, taken
about 10 leagues from the Capes of Chesa
peake ; also uSpanifh brig, prize to another
French privateer, has arrived at Norfolk.
She had an action with the privateer, in
•which 4 of her seamen were killed and j
jumped overboard.
Extratt of a letter from Jamaica, June ro
"Oh the 4th inft. at Savannah-la-Mar,
"was burnt in effigy, Thomas Faine, with
the cap of liberty on his head, set off with a
variety of labels and inscriptions. You
will not be in the least surprized at this
tranfaftion, when you consider that a herd
of Jamaica negro-drivers can have no dif
tin.it idea of the rights of man."
Extratt of a letter from Paris, dated
April 3.
" You will judge, my dear friend, to
what height public spirit has risen in this
city. About 2000 yonng people of 14 or j 5
years of age but who have not compleated
their j6th year, and therefore not liable to
enter into the national gu,i. d came out of
what is called the battallion of childien,
and hive been at the national convention
to prefest 011 their knees a petition to go
to the frontiers at the expence of their fa
milies, f,vearing at the lame time they
wquld not rife until they fhonld do juflice
to their demand. The members of the
convention could not refrain from tears, at
the interesting light of youth so cournge
oully offering itfelf. They rushed for
ward to embrace these generous children,
who, without changing attitude, inrreated
the legifl'ature immediately to pronounce
their concurrence, but feeing the afllmhly
undetermined, the lead, r and orator of
this affeiting deputation, turning hijnfelf
towards his brethren, addrefied them in
the words following, which were fre
quently interrupted by his tears.
" My companions let us go, and return
didtbnoured to our families, for the fa
thers of oar country judge us incapable of
dying for lire republic." A niajeitic calm
fueceeded all at once to this public fcene
and the convention, after a lhort debate,
decreed in the greatest silence that the le
gion, called the children of the republic,
fhottid hot J itfelf in readiness to depart in
8 days for the frontiers. Instantly shouts
of long ti-ee the republic were heard from
every corner of the hall, and more than
20,000 voices replied from without. I wa?
there, my dear friend, and 1 cannot recall
the ravilhing light, without shedding tears
of joy. The mothers of these inconceiv
able children attended Them at the paflage,
and, weeping, congratulated them oil hav
ing deserved the confidence of the rcpnb
>ic. The executive council hath given
orders that this legion be condu&ed by
short marches to the frontiers, and that
the national volunteers of Paris should go
in two months to relieve from their polts
these young pttpils of the country,little ac
customed to the fatigues of a camp. What
an example for every town through which
they will pass, and what e ithutiafm they
uiuft spread on their return."
Extratt of a ktter from Cadiz, dated
April 22.
" Many of your people will wonder at
the difiolution of the family conduct, the
ties of religion that formerly held Spair
and France together, and our new jurfti
on with a power with which we have for
centuries hcen on bad terms. The mat
ter will he plain when it is said, that If.
France becoming a free and republican
nation, Spain evidently fee; the emancipa
tion and independence of all her vast pof
feflions in America. Theeventis dread
ed here universally, aryJ those who dare to
think (for speaking is out of the queltion)
are convinced that it is not remote. Your
Miflifliippi will then be free, and your flag
appear in ports of your adjoining conti
nent that, while dependent oh old Spain,
will ever be inaccefiible. One thing is really
wonderful that England hss so far over
feeir her interest as not to unite \yith
France in haftcning the freedom of Ame
rica, which would be immensely to her ad
vantage in acomhiefcial view of things.
But this it is thought will yet be the cafe,
when the people there are governed by
their own voice, and not by the voice of
the court."
[From a Correspondent at Elkton,
Maryland.']
Elitvn, July sth, 1793 —Yefterdav the
Citizens of Klkton. a patriotic little band,
ever mindful of the glorious anniversary
of cnir independence, affcmblcd at Seasr s
Hotel, and celebrated the-day with their
nfuai feltivity—UfcEßTY and EQUA
LITY 1
Extratt oja letter from New-Providence,
June 19.
" You will nn doubt be rnrprized to fee
the date of a letter from me at this place,
but when I inform yon of the cause, & you
are made acquainted with the treatment
Americans receiva from the Britifti cruiz
ers, your surprize will be removed, and
you will probably feel that indignation,
which every American ought u|'on such an
occasion.
" J failed from Ar.x-Cayes about a fort
nighrfince, with an American Hoop hound
for Baltimore, full of freight, when eight
or nine days after leavingAux-Cayes, I tell
in with the schooner May Flower, a priva
teer belonging to this, port, who took me
into possession as having French property
on board, and sent my veiTel and cargo here
for trial. On their tirft taking nJe, they
mentioned that American property was not
to be diflurbed, bnt that all French proper
ty they were determined to have ) and in
consequence of an information lodged by
one James Alpine, who was, or acted us
mailer of a fcHoone* belonging to \ irginia,
they were particularlv informed my vellel
and cargo were both French property ; this,
although an infamous fatlhood. had induced
them to libel both (loop and cargo, and be
ing an entire stranger here, and delVutite of
the money neceff.iry ta secure iureties for
the cost, I am neceflitated to give up my
property, -.vhere I have all the profpe.it in
iife of gaining my claim of the (loop, which
God knows is just, if 1 had - wherewith to
support my claim-; in this situation I know
not what to do, and all the confutation I
can have in my mind, is to menace them
with the hopes of revenge.
" I am not alone in this bufmef;, there
are how here seven American vefleJ;, v i"h
the greater part of their cargoes libelled,
ahd more expected every day, many iroi;;
Aux-Cayes, which are likewise informed
against by the said M'Alpine, they have
likewise libelled the schooner M'Alp ne
was in, merely from his faying (he was fold
in and altho' the proprietor
was present, and nothing can be proved to
ascertain the sale, yet I think, and am
afraid, his chance will be small of recover
ing her—for it is hard going to law, where
the Devil lits judge."
Many arguments have been made tife of
to Tefiite those whp havejailerted that A
merica ought to regard the king an I not
the nation of France as the object of our
gratitude-for the hlefiings which we now
et)joy from independence, a good govern
ment, and a fertile country, the produce
of which we can spply to our own use.
1 o prove to which of the parties sur obli
gations are really due we will quote what
followsfrom the Annual Register for the
year 1776. page 184, under the head of
The liiftory of Europe "It is probable,
that Europe much indebted for the con
tinuance of its tranquility, to the pacific
disposition of the French monarch, which
is fuppolVfl with difficulty to have retrain
ed the activity or restlessness of a close aily
and powerful neighbour, as well as the
ardour of the princes of the blootj, the
nobility, and the nation in general, who
are thought to be eagerly dil'pofed for a
\yar.
" Indeed from whatever cause it pro
ceeds, the American party is so strong in
France, thai seems nearjy to include the
whole nation, except the ruling part of
crte court. However, that may be, the
prcfent disposition of the courtls favoura
ble to the happiness of mankind, and, in
the present date of affairs, particularly
fortunate to Great Britain."
The applicability of the above passage in
the history of Europe, written and pubiilh
ed by EnglWhmen, is a proof, beyond the
pofiibility of doubt of the falfhood of those
fa&sfrom which the inferences of certain
writers are drawn, and too pointed not to
enforce conviction on scepticism itfelf.
\V irg. Gaz. ]
The following is a translation of the toasts
drank by the French Patriotic Society,
aflembled at No. 94, North Second-street,
on theevening of the Fourth of July, to
celebrate the ani'iverfary of American
Independence.
1. "The day we celebrate. 2. The
French Republic : may ber popular go>-
vernment, ai d her primary aflemblies,
serve as models to all Europe. 3. The
Republic of the Uniteil Statt-s of America;
thefirft founded oil the principles of im
mutable truth. 4. The National Con
vention ; may their courage, principles,
and virtue be immovable. 5. The Con
greCs of the United States, and the Decla
ration of July 4th, 1776. 6. Liberty,
Equality, and no king. 7. Principles, and
not men. 8. The Democrats throughout
the world- 9. The Democratic Societies
of Pennsylvania, and all those instituted in
France, and in the United States on the
fame principles. 10. The Sans Souliers
[soldiers without shoes] of Valley Forge,
and the Sans Culottes of Jemappe. 11.
May the Frcnch never have a king under
any title whaifoever. 12. May the Cap
of Liberty preserve from epidemic aristo
cracy. 13. The writers, friends to liber
tyand eqiir?!itv. ?4. M y the United
States by fauhftillyTulfilling their treaties,
teach even England to execute hers. 15.
The fair fex,.friends to the rights of man.
16. Profperityto the French navy. 17.
Perpetual union between the French Repu
blic and the United States of America. 18.
Republican limplicity and sobriety!''—The
room was decorated with the French and
American colours, joining under a cap of
liberty, on which the national cockade
was fixed.
Lart Saturday arrived <it Baltimore the
privateer schooner Citizen Genet, wfth
her prize, the brig Lovely Lass. On the
4th (lie had a warm engagement with the
British (hip Trusty, mounting 8 nine poun
ders, and the brig Cornwallis, mounting
6 eight pounders, about 5 leagues east of
the capes of Virginia. The brig Corn
wallis tlriick, after engaging one hour.
The ship Trusty fought the Citizen Genet
3 hoars* when the ammunition chert on
board the privateer took fire, blew up, and
wounded lix of the crew in a terrible man
ner. In coiifeqnence of this accident (he
bore away for the Chesapeake, without
being in a condition to feture her prize,
who with the ship crowded fail, and llood
away S. S. E.
A venel is just arrived at Norfolk in ten
days from Bollon, spoke a brig from Bri
stol, only 28days out; the captain of which
informed him, that the French had gained
a signal Victory over the combined
armies of Austria, ahd Prnffia. near Dun
kirk—that they beat and drove them in ail
politions, making gt «jt. slaughter, and tak
ing a number of prisoners;
The following accouiit of the diftrefles
at Cape Francois is copied from a New-
York paper of lad Monday.
Capt. Fanning of the brig Union, ar
rived yefterdiv in 14 days from Cape
Francois, gives the following melajicholy
particulars refpefting the fate of that un
happy island.—
" On the > Bth of June, the civil commif
lioncrs, Meli'rs. Santhonax and Polverel,
arrived at the Cape from Port-au-Prince,
—they immediately fulpended Molls. Gal
beau, th£ governor and commander of the
troops at that place, and Cent him on board
ihip ; on the 19th a number of mulattoes
were encouraged by these gentlemen, to
come into town, who, by unfair means,
armed all the negroes belonging to the
liti-zens, and encouraged them to affilf in
deftro'ying all the whites, which fcer.e
a£talu'v began 011 the 20th about noonv hen
an indiscriminate mr-h'acre of both sexes
took plate—men, women and children
were cut to pieces, to the number of be
tween 8 and 10 thousand ; numbers took
refuge in the mountains, where it is fup
pefsd they i»ave ihared a firoilar late to
their brethren ere this ; —thofe who were
more fortunate, escaped oil board the (hip
ping with what little cloaths they had on ;
the wretches then began to plunder th»r
town, after which they set fire to it, and
on the 23d, when capt. Fanning failed,
there were not more than johoules {land
ing. Capt. Fanning failed in oompany
with 250 fail of vefiels bound to different
ports in America, umjer-eonvoy of two
74's and five frigates, who were bouftd to
Boflon or Newport,fo that we may hourly
expect to hear of their arrival. On Sa
turday last he fell in With the l'Ambufcade,
otf Barnegat. who detained him for three
hours, and then ordered him to proceed
on—Capt. Fanning's register, and all his
papers were burnt at the Cape.
The merchants of the city of Philadel
phia assembled on Monday last, in conl'e
quence of the departure of the French brig
Litt'le Democrat (late the Little Sarah)
armed& fnppofed to be bound on a cruize.
They appointed a committee to infoitn the
governor, that at lead one of the hands, if
not more, on board said brig is a citizen of
the United States. This committee w,A
also directed to make further enquiries re
lative to the equipment of the brig in this
particular. '1 hey were 10 reporr in the
evening.
On the sd inft. a velTel arrived at Boston
in 15 days from Oftend, which place (he!
left the 15th ot May. The French were
then in high spirits and determined to de
fend their country to the last extremity.
Every neceflary of provifionj, &c. were in
plenty, and no appearance of want
throughout the republic. Accounts were
current in Oftend of an engagement be
tween one of the French armies and the
Britifii and Auftrians combined, in which
the latter were defeated with the loss of
twelve hundred men. A body of 1000
British foices marched from Oft end on the
10th May to join the combined armies;
others had arrived, and more were expec
ted. Gen. Cuitine, at the head of 20,000
men was ready to attack the ele&orate o(
Treves, and his advanced pods were ac
tually on the electoral frontiers.-.
On Monday morning last died, Mr. BeM*
lAMin TowNE, many years a printer irt
this city. His remains were interredyeiter
day evening, attended by a refpe£table mint
ber of citizens; &molt of the typographical
profefiion in Philadelphia.
*** A Friend to Truth, and several other?
communications, in our next.
——<
juji Fubiijbed,
And to be Sold at the Office of the National
Gazette, No. 209, Ma-ket-ftreetj
That celebrated little Book, e-ntitled—
SURE AND CERTAIN METHODS
of attaining a
LONG
AND
HEALTHY LIFE.'
Written by
LEWIS CORNARO, an Italian Ncbieman,
When he was near an Hundred Years of" Ape
With a recommendation by the Hon. Joseph?
Addison, (Author of the Spfr&ator)
In the following Words :
tc was of an infirm conftifutto**
ti!l about sorry, when by tfeadily persist
ing in the eouife of lile recommended in this lit
tle book, he recovered a petfeft state of health,
insomuch that at fobrfcore he publi/hcd thi#
work. He lived to give a third and fourth edi
tion of it j and having palled his hundredth
year, died without pain or agOnv, like one whd
falls afieep. The treatise 1 mention h?s befcn
taken notice of by feverai ertiinent authors, and is
written with such a spirit of cheerfulneft, religion
and good sense, as are the natural concomitants
of temperance and sobriety* Thfr mixture of
the old man in it, is rather a recommendation
than a difcredlt to it."
N. B. The Louden edition has Jo'd for 6/6.
This Anttrttan edition, bandfomely bound and Ut
ttrcdy for 3/3 only.
Ten Dollars Reward*
RAN away from the fubfcribir on the i6:h
of June last, an apprentice lad named
JOSEPH CURTIS, by trade a house carpfntfir,
about 19 years of age, 5 feet 9 inches high, U
left-handed, light brown hair, full faced ; had
on when he wi»nt away a brown broadcloth coat,
with metal buttons, ftfiped cotton waiftroat,
and homespun lir.en fcrowiers, coloured. Who*
ever will rake.up said, appjer}tice, and secure him
in jail, so that his mafttr may get him again.
| or bring him home, shall receive the above re
ward) and reasonable charges paid by
WILLIAM COOKE.
Bordcntewn, July 6, 1793. lawjw
Twenty-five Dollars Reward.
RAN away from the ftibfcriber, in Newton,
the evening of the sth instant, a Negro man
named SOLOMON, about five f«et two or three
inches high, yellow complexion, speaks good
Engliih, c.in read well, and is an a&ive smart
fellow—had on and took With him, a new wool
bar, linfey fulPd coar, sundry veiVs, on* striped
pattern not made up, fuftian overalls, new flioes,
and lundry otfaeis nop here afaertained.— Whoever
will secure the above mentioned negio in anv
jail", so that the cwnef gets him Sgain shall have
-he above reward and all reasonable' by
. . JOHN DEWITT,
N»wtop, SufTex County, Nsw-Jericy,
July 6,1785. "wNEW MILITIA LAW.
An ACT f r the Regulation of the Militia
' thi Co hmOMVcultb oj Pennfy <vtwia.
HERE AS a well regulated Milili.i it
<he only fafe and co:ifti:ution il ne
thod of def n ling a free 1 • a!•.: And where
the levcril laws enacted fy the Lej;ifl<
ture of ilus Commonwealth, for tlie regu
lation of tie Militia thereof, have beer
found to req lire material alteration ; i
order to which i: has been thought mor(
advisable to revise the whole f/ftem thar
to amend it by fupplenientary llatutes ;
Th refore
I. BE it enaßcd Is the Sevah
en! House of Reprefcntatwes f the Com
monwealth of Pennsylvania, in General /If
femlly met,, and it it hereby enaßcd ty th
authority of the fame, That each and everv
free white male citizen, of this or any
other of the United States residing in
this Commorwealth, who is or fh:!! bt
of the age of eighteen years, and untjel
the age of forty-five years, txcept as
herein after excepted, Oia'l feverJly and
rcfpe&ivtly be enrolled in the Militia, bj
the Captain or commanding officer of th<
company within whofs bounds, such citi
7 u shah refidr, within three months aftei
the paffi' g of this idt-f and that it (hat
hi ;:t all t mts ferealter the duty of everj
f ich captain or commanding officer of <
cirppany to enroll every such citizen ai
afi irefaid, and also those who (hall frorr
time to time arrive at the age of eigh eer
y ars, or being of the a'e of eigh eer
5 cars an 1 tin ler'l-eage of f rt five ye rs
rnd i;ot excepted ! y th s ast, lha'l comt
to reside within his boun s, and fhal
withtu' delay notify such citizen of tht
f id enrollment by a pro er noo-vommif
si ned officer of the company by whoiT
such notice maybe proved; and in al
c.fes of doubt rsfpcdh'ng the age of any
perfpn enrolled, or intended to be enroll
ed.tl e party questioning fhafl prove hisagi
to the fr>tisfa&:on of the officers of the com
piny within whose bounds he may reside
o a majority of them.
Scftion 11. And be it further enaSed I)
th: authority aforefaid. That the Vice
Pref'dcht of the United Stares, officers
judicial and executive of the governmenl
of the United States, the members of tots
Houses of Congrtfs, a"d their refpedtivi
offictrs, judges of the fuprtme court,
j'ulges of the court of commtm plea;,
attorney general, fccrctary and treafurei
of the state, fhcriffs, gaolers and ktepe !
of woik-hottfis, all post officers and Itagc
drivers who are employed in the care and
conveyance of the maii of ihe pofl-offict
of the United States, all ferry-men tm
pToye3 at any lerry on the poft-roai's, d
it.f. ftors of exports, a'l pilots, all mart
lets a&ual' employed in the fia fervict
of any ci izen or merchant within tin
United States, minillers of religion r,
everv denomination, prrifeffirs and teach
trs in the university. colleges, academii:
and fchcols, the librarian of the Librarj
Company of Philadelphia, ami of tlx
Liganian Library, and menial servants oi
fmbafladi'rs or minillers and consuls frorr
foreign states, and no other person oi
persons, shall be and are hereby exceptec
from militia du'y, notwithstanding theii
being above he age of eighteen, and un
«ser the age of fo-ty five years: And alfc
all young men u-der the age of twenty
one years and all servants pu-ehafed bon:
fide, a:id for a valuable consideration
though enrolled agreeably to the fufl
fe& on of this 'aw (hall be exempted fro i
furnilhing the necelTiry arms, ammunitior
and accoutrements a- are required by the
fifth fe&toti thereof, and fhrfll be excepted
from militia duties and fines during such
minority or servitude, except in cases o|
tebcllion or an actual or threaten o inva
lion of this or any of the neighboring
states.
Se£tion 111. /Indbe It further enaSeo
ly the author ty aforefaid, That the miliii?
of this Commonwealth fl ail, within tht
r lpettive hounds herein after mentioned,
be arranged into divisions, brigades, regi
ment.i, battalions and companies—that
each brigade so to be formed, shall consist
of not lefsthan two, nor more than eight
regiments, each legiment into two bat
talions, and each battallion into four com
panies, in such manner that no company
{hall consist of more than eighty, or left
than forty individuals, or as near a» may
be, ha> iug regard to their local lituations;
there fli 11 be to ach battalion at lead one
company of grenadiers, light infantry or
and to eack div.fisa there shall
b« :.? leaf! one c? .irtiHery, anc
one troop oi horse, which (hall be forme,
oi wlttnte ra from the refpedtive brigade:
at the difcret'on of th: governor, not ex
ce»ding one company of each to a regi
ment, nor imwe in number than one tie
venth pnrt of the infantry ; -Provided ai
"'•iiysi i hat the several volunteer corps o
art!llery,cav;lry ami infant y, which bar?
hitherto exifled in thia commonwealth,
ami h.ave not be p. included in the gene
ral formations of the militia, shall conti
nue to exilt as heietofore, and retain tin
privileges which they have hitherto en
joyed
Se&ion IV. />rd be it further enafie
by the authority afore/aid, That the terri
torv of this Commonwealth, for the pur
pose of making the arrangement in tin
preceding fettion mentioned, be and ii
her:by divided into division bounds, a
fallows, to wit The < ity and coun'y o
Philadelphia fltall form one division—
I he counties of Bucks and
one other division—The counties of Chef
ttr and D la ware one other divifi >n —
The counties of Lancaster and York om
other division: The counties of B-rks an(
Dauphin one other divilion—The coun
tics of Cumberland and Ira (din one o
tlur division—The comities of North
ampton, Northumberland, and Luzerne
oie other divip >n—The counties of B-.d
ford, Huntingdon and Mifflin, -one othe
divilion—And the counties ofWMtmore
land, 'Wdfhington, Faye te and Alle e he
r.y one other division—The city of Phi
l ;delphia (hall form a brigade, an I eael
county shall form a hrigade ; provide,
that it shall be lawful for the governor tc
divide any county into two brigades
when the number of men enrolled in tin
m l lia of such county /h .11 c.cceed foui
thoufanl.
Stdlion V. And be it father ev.aF.ec,
by the authority afore/aid, That in ordei
tiiat the miliu;* may be properly armed,
equipped and accoutred, every citizen en
rolled, and notified of this enrollment in
manner aforefaid, except fs is herein be
fore excepted, shall within fix months as
ter re- eiving such notice, provide himfell
with the arms ammßoinofi and accoutre
ments herein after mentioned, vix. Every
non commillloiied officer aud private ol
the infa itry, (including gtenaditrs and
light infantry, and of the artillery) fti:.l
have a good muflc t or fire lock, a fuffici
en. bayonet and belt, 'wo spire flints
and a knapsack, a pouch, « ith a box
therein t. contain not less tlisn twen y
fcur cartridges suited to the bore of his
musket or firelock. each ca tridge to con
tarn a proper quantity of po.rrlcr an!
b:'!, or with a good rifle, kntpf/ck, (hot
pouch and powder horn, twenty bah? ful
tej to the bore of his rifl and a quar!ei
of a pound of powder : the commiflionei 1
officers of infantry ITi.tII be armed with ;
sword or hanger, and an ef>ontoon, arc
those of artillery with a sword or hanger,
a fuzee,b yonet, and bs.lt, an 1 a cartridge
box to contain twelve cartridges ; the
commiffioaed officers of the several iroopj
of orfe shall furniih themselves witl, good
horfea of at le?ft fouiteen hinds and ai
half high, and shall be armed \v th a fwrorf 1
and a pair of piflols, the holders of whicl
shall be covered with bear flcia caps ; each
light horseman or dragoon ffiall furnifli
hiinlelf with a fervice.ible horse of at leall
fourteen hands and an half high, a good
saddle, bridle, mail pilli n and velife hoi-
Hers, and a breall piste and crupper, a
pair of boots and spurs, a pair of pifto'f,
a fab e and a cartouch box to contain
twelve cartridges for pistols ; the artillery
and horse (hall be uniformly cloathed
tn regimentals to be furnifh-d at their own
expence, the colour and fafhion to be de
termined by the Br gadier .commanding
ih: brigade to which they belong ; everv
militia man shall appear so armed, accou
tred and provided when called out to ex
ercise 'j? into service (except that when
called out on company days, to exercift
only, he may appear without a knnpfack)
and every man so enrolled es aforehi.:,
and providing himfelf with the arms, am
muniti n and accoutrements required a-;
aforefaid, shall bold the fame exetnpte 1
from all suits, diftrefies, executions, or
sales for de; t, or the payment of taxes :
each battalion and legiment shall be pro
vided with thefi ate and regimental colours,
by the field officers, and each company
with a drum 3nd fife, or bugle horn, by
the commifltoned officers of the company;
the expences of such colours, drums, fifes
or bu;'le horns to be repa'd to the pin
cers out of the fines incuried by this a:t j
Prwtdea always, Thjt -.vhsnc ?r the field
officers of any regiment (hall judge an)
person enrolled therein unable to arm atrc
equip Limit If as aforefaid, inch person
fr.al l not he fu' jcft to any fine (or not
arming, any thing here n contained to the
contrary notwithstanding.
[To be continued. ]
T't IS U'W IS PUBLISHED,
By MATHEW CARE Y
No. lii, Markct-Srtrwt,
Emb- I (hrdwi h aM-.P ~f South Ammo.
Of a KhW SYSTEM ()' MODERN
geography.
OR, A GEOGRAPHICAL, Hib 1 Oit IC AL.
ANU COMMERCIAL GRAMMAR j
And p. e lent Sratc of she Several
KINGDOMS' OF THE VYOKLD.
COM A J N i is G
J. The figures, motions, 2nd distances of the pla
nets, «c«or<ting to the Newtonian Hem and
the lareit ob'.-\ va;ions.
11. A geneul view of the earth eon fitted as a
pane' ; wi;h Icveral ufcful dtfi
njtwns and oroblems.
If. The granH d'viifon of the globe into lands
and water, consents and lilan.is.
IV. The riruKJAti and ex'ent of empires, king
doms, ftaces, provinces, and colonies.
V. ] heir climate*, a;« , foil, vegetable producti
ons, rnetaia, minerals, natural curiofiues, teas,
rivers, baj s, eapes, promontories, and lakes.
VI. The birds and oeaflbpeculiar to each Couutrv.
Vil. Gbfervatione on :he changes thai have beer
any wheie observed upon the face of nature
fmce the 010 ft early periods of hjftory.
VIII. The hifiory and oripin of natron? ; their
forras of government, refigion, laws, revenues,
taxes, naval and mili'ary .Length.
»X. Thr gen us, manners, customs, and habit,
of theV^e.
X. 1 heir learning, arts, fciencei, ma
nufa&ures, unci commerce.
XI. ihe chief cii!rs» ltTuciures, ruins, and ar
tificial curiolliies.
XII. The longitude, latitude, bearings, ar»d dif
tancesofthe principal places Irwn Philadelphia.
TO WHICH ARE ADDED.
I. J2 Geographical /»;«jVx, with the namcr, an J
places 1 lf>habetic:.ily arrange d.
il. A 'Table ofrhe Coins or aii Nations, and their
valur* in Ei.glifh Mont's,
111. A drono/ovical Table of remarkable events,
Iroaj tne Creatun to the prelent i ime.
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE. Fr^.
The /vixrot-o nical Pnrf bv Fct e uf n,r(,RS
To ivbicb hiive been added,
The late Dilcoverie* of L'r. H. ifchel, and ether
eminent A!tronomcrs>.
The JlrJl American tit it fan, cnrref?eJ t in:p'C*ved t
and greatly enlarged.
The of rn«« wotk, thankful fcr the pat
ronage with which h* has been honored", fub
n.i » the prefer, t "number" 10 the n.f Oion of
his cirirens, lays befre them
The terms of publication .
I. Trtis geography fliall be pt&lifned in forty
eight weekly- numbTs, each containing twrn
> -four pai.es cf letter press.
Ji. In the cnurfe of the publication w*H be de
livered the loHowing mirps e
i* Ihe world, a. Eurooe. 3; swe4en, Den
maik, Nurwav, an 4}• inland. 4. jßciiia. 5.
"norland. 6. England and \Val:s. 7. Ireland.
■ France. 9. Seven United Province's, to. Au
■liao ano Fic» ch Netherlands, m. Germany.
T2. Switzerland. 15. Poland. 14. S r ain an.'
P.>rtuia'. 15. Ira Iv. 16. TutV-y in Europe.
17. Afu. i 3. China. 19-. liindoftan. 20. Af
rica. 2r« Norrh Ame.'ica. 22. Bsitifli
rica. 23. Well-lnd-ie§-. 24,. Soi/tb
25. Planifj here of the earth. *z6. Countries
round the north p <le. *27 Dilcorenes- mafde
ov Captains- Cooke and Cleike. *28. Ne\»-.
Hamper ire. *29. Maflachuletts. Cor-
Pefticut. *31. Khode iliaod* *32. Vefmoni.
n 33* New-Yoik. New-Jer/Vy# *35
ao4 Delc.vate. *36. Marytantd
'37. Vrrg;nia» Nwrth *30.
South-Caioliria. *40. Ge>r}'ia. *4'- 11k
suhe>e. *42. The Copernican flenv.
N. B. All the maus n\f<i it; d wirh ft?rn arr
added to this edition, exclusive of in the
ast London edition.
Thst no m:iv arise fromYub
fcribers expecting the p'ubliJhrr n-rither pro
mises nor is t • perlorm, he this car)'
3c explicit notice, that to rome oi the States it wiil
be impo(f;ble for h :n \* givr*. maws fullv accurate,
no- late furvevs having been made ; aod c is haro.
ly necefl'iry to observe, that it falls not withi;*
lis plan to go to the exoenfe of lurveys. Bur in
•-•verv inl'?''ce, he will Lva;' r, r- -ir of the hffi
murerja's extant : and tocii cotr' «itions and addi
ions ao his utmost excitionk can j-iocute, H»a J
be made.
111. The geo,.""a; by of the Unr.erf Is un
dertaken by gentlemen of l<re-abiliiies, who
have engngeo to t ! ' ca m -'e i\ !! and laU<t\:€to
ry account of it rhan was ever publiined Jr
will extend to 250 or 300 pages, although in
the F.ritifh edition, and even in that of *"*52
i-t makes on4> about 30^
IV. Sh6u\d the work exceed num
bers, thefurplus will be delivered gratisr to tiif
sub bribers.
V. The p ice of each number wilJ be a quarter
dollar, ro be paid on deliver).
VI. Such fubferibers as do not choose to reefivc
the woilc in numbers, are to pay tluee dollars
ar the time of fubferibing.
The printer, anxious to render this work a;
DerfeCl. as the nature of it will allow, mofl- <*ar
nefily rcquert*, that fdeh gentlemen, throughout
rhe United S>a?<'<;, as have it in their power, wii!
furnish him with documents fr»r corveOing rhe
pad er:nrs in the geography of Ameiica, and for
furn thing a morf comoiete fjftem ofg" gTaphy
tl.an has jet appeared#-
Thr ;tt!f «-fA.2,frr:bir'i him, wit!,
'11l account ot [he Newtonian system, &c. &c.
will be e iv-„ in tne 47 ,h numkers.
N. B. ihe futolcribert, *uj (he public in ge*
neral are r?que(ltd Co conlider thr tallowing vc-ry
tiiaterial ci;cumltance-- 1 re London quarto edi
'ion is fold here, for fifteen <-ilbrs, although it
-ontains only 7.5 m.-pa and plaies, and of the geo
.raphy at the United Stales, as j„, been obferred
• b-ve, oply lb ut 30 pajej—whereas, Cate»'»
:diti<m will coatain 42 map! and plate*, and haW
»o 1 mitred ; ages of letter preft inors. And ie
need r.ot be obfrved, that the f-venteen maps to.
be added, are of note in.pouan.e 'so Americk
by far, than the 25 London ones. The oblerva
■on will apply with equal force to the letter j.»efe
addition*..
The maps will be pubHflird in fuck order «f
uCcellion as they are engraved, arrd ditedttons will
JC P "" eJ 'or the proper manner o/pi»c ln£ thcai
V tiie bookbinder.
Mi) 22.
To the PUBLI C.
N^^ Tand:ng '»•
"Vork. euritird MAN UiVDECCIVEO.'^chI
[TiZT """'Si °« <he 25th Feb.
«->, 1 jeei my (elf f, ai ,,. y i„f orro i
the fame will ~ D „ t l
•day to the prtfs, a, t*e j, ll"
uccef.Mly filled. Such unc« r % e H f" cc .ft ,
to the favor of f 4 »eral reaiou. 1" ,"**
'f p-f* themfelvei in the '
I think it unnecelTary to malre anv ~m ark. ...
v.ork, a, the Cm wi'f
[\"\-.-\VAXte t "tha" n ,h''i Ct j " f rrncc "P"" if.
'r , 7 -fe cirrumftarcf*
1I C ea, \ , 3(i , v. 1 hn H rKa cr- •
< T -C,, will fee,
*" h . r " '"bfrribing,
W '" """oond the eftemre, ot Reo„Lli
h-wver, referee even. remark
.fhfe h P , f ifttre /° «*•>'«* my p . Jty{ic t?sankgk
fly le benevolent A net. can Prirt-.< t k tnil u
be I ,itri States, who hid the kwii t3 inl 'f rC
:-n,,,,.h, r , fend
ai-.i.g./r. that I , n3v fc.. come actjuaimed with
'.-•ITr d r rmit
it, at, ke nofjnv gratKinlr.
... ' :,p/s take npf - fC? of
■na-'kirtd ar ',""' rr r ,lt '' i "'". a»d friends to
k 1 3 <ha,3a " acquired only i„ the
cnooi ot democracy
, . , JAK!F,S F-t. PWCLIA,
La e fw„, interpreter «rf iae Spanilh language.
June 12, 1793. 6 s
: fort Au P RIN cE,
The /,,ft fl!lin s ' 9hi ?
BETSEY,
A t E D READING, Miller:
gURTHEM two hurtrrd and fifiecn tons: She
has beenjuft hove down and i-s in compic-te
n:er. H&> rxceliervt accommodations fir pas
; n g crs,and will fail bv th« I sth of Juiv r.eit.For
rt iyht or ii;.p/y tu the Ca pt.sin on board,
r t«i Mr. J t ir i D'tnkjn, merchant, Ko.
iouth V/ater-frreer
J u " c 2 9- Jt
Pcur le Port au Princc,
Le Navire LA BETSEY,
C?v''a'nc REED Reaping - ,'
DU PORT de dpux cens rt quinzr rohneanxy
tres bo. 1 voilifr j a ei£ frthfckvmfnt m-
rt fn le rneSHebr- er.lt pn Uf J 2 m fr . L r
Betfcv *■(} birr a prendre »>t pif?a
_ers, et aar i.a fur le Quin/ em? jour d» mois.de
foijlet c» crant. C-ux qu» y palter <m
a >:?r s'add-eftcropt a ie Capita>ne fur le
nu a M. JEAN DUNKiN, .
No. 105, Ki-e dc lVau (VVafcr-Screet) de Sud.
a Phitad-ctpiiie, le premier de JuifJec, 1793
Cizin\s to rvbout two lmndrcd and
tirty iho»i;aiid acres (l f LAND in tne of
•sen T,jr ' fe y» «n dinVrent p.irrs of that country,
Tome whjch j kivow to be tqitaj Co any ; 3JI
»f '« h' f h ?'am inrlVned to cifpoie of, e" her by
ntirc fa'c, or by admitting one, or two partners,
:<> the agency on fJje whole will be com
mittfsi.
(;, c fourth of the contrail will be required Ira
h?wl, richer in cash. t meichand-ile, or fu-ch afJeta
as may he converted to active ufc, the rrfidue
mav be apportioned in convenient
Ihe purchasers to gWe security. on the land,
or ot;ierway3,aa suits them.
Knowing that there is a prejudice the
i*les of land in that lVare, «hic.') is rnorc general
han juH", 1 am billing to'ftiptilate in rhe con-
r>»at * (iifc<»unt, or orfiticVton, Oiall be
v/here any land may bt lolt, by region of a
title-
Any tterftn ir»ciining to fncS a purchase, ts re
qtiefted to wri'.e co nie by pofr» in anJ-.ver to
whom, more part-colar i» ' ation % ;!i lif o»^*?n.
ti E NRT BAN K S.
Richmond March :j, r 793- i?w ,
PRINTED BY
CHILDS AND SWAINS. '
AT TREIK «f PIC t NO. 2f9, »ICH-fTkEST»
NFAR PirTH-STP.fIT,
r K 1 L A D E 5. f «. i AT' I^.