By r. Flt ENEAUi (at No. 209, Mark«t Street) Pub'ijhid Wednesdays and Saturdays, [Three Dollars per annum.]
Numb. 64 of Vol. ll.]
Gen. DUMOURIER's LETTER
to the French Ration, dated Bat/u of St.
A>nand, April 2, 1793.
[Continued our laj} and concluded]
T ICENTlOVSNESSandexcefsfoonren
tiered it impossible to support the yoke
of a cojiltirution that gave laws. The tri
bunes influenced the aiii-'tubly of represen
tatives and were themselves awed by tlie
dangerous club of the Jacobins at Paris.—
• Thf ftrife between the two powefs became
at length a daily combat. Then was the
equilibrium de'.troyed—Francs cesifed to
have 1 kingi; and the victory of the 10th ot
August was foiled by tlie atrocious crimes
ot the firll days of September.
All the departments, but more especially
the wretched city of Paris, were delivered
np to pillage, to denunciations, proscripti
ons, and No Frenchman, the
aS'ailins ami their accomplices except-,
ed, had either his li: - or his property in
fecurityl The coiiflernation ot slavery
was augmented by the clamourous orgies
of villains. Bands of pretended Federates
ran through and laid waste the depart
ments; and of the seven hundred indivi
duals who composed this tlefpotie body,
four or five hundred groaned aud decreed,
and decreed and groaned, exposed to the
exterminating sword of the Marats and
Robefpierres. It is thus that the unfor
tunate Louis the iwcteenth perilhed, with
out a judicial trial, and without a tribunal:
and'tis thus that the decree of the 19th of
November has provoked all nations by
holding out to them our aid, provided they
will consent to disorganize theml'elves.
'Tis thus that the unjult and impolitic de
cree of the 15th of December has alienated
from us the hearts of the Belgians, has dri
ven us from the Netherlands, and would
have brought about the maiTacre of our
whole army by this nation provoked at
our outrages and our erimes, if I had not
saved that very army by my proclamations.
*Tis thus that a decree eftablilhed the bloo
dy tribunal which places the lives of the
citizens at the mercy of a final! number of
iniquitous judges, without recourse or ap
peal to any other tribunal. 'Tis thus that
during the lait month all the decrees have
been marked by the (lamp of insatiable av
arice. bv the blindest pride, and more es
pecially by the desire of maintaining pow
er, by calling to the mart important polls
of the Hate 110 other than daring incapa
ble and criminal men, by driving away or
murdering men enlightened and of a high
character, and by supporting a phantom of
a republic which their errors in adinini
ftration and in policy, as well as their
crimes, had rendered impracticable. These
leven hundred individuals despise, detell
calumniate and revile each ottier ; and have
already, and that frequently, thought oi
poignarding the one the other. At this
jmotnent their blind ambition has impelled
them to coalesce afrcfh ; and bold crimina
lity allies itfelf to feeble virtue, to preserve
a power as unjust as it is unfteatly. In the
mean time, their committees devour ever)
thing, that of the national treasury abforb
inp the public funds, without being able
to render any account of the expendi
ture.
What has this convention done to main
tain the war it has provoked againlf all the
powers of Europe?
It has difbrganized the armies, instead
of reinforcing and recruiting the troops oi
the line, and the ancient battalions of na
tional volunteers, which would have form
ed a refpettable army. Inltead of recom
pensing these brave warriors by promotion
andpraifes, these legislators have left the
battalions incomplete, naked, disarmed
and discontented. In the fame way have
they treated the excellent cavalry ; and
* the brave French artillery is in the fame
manner exhaufled, abandoned, and ir
■want of every necellary. They notwith
flanding, create new corps, composed ol
the fatellihes of the second of September,
and comma.-.ded by men who have never
ferred, and who are in no other way to be
dreaded unlefsby the armies they surcharge
and disorganize. The convention facri
fices every thing to these satellites of tyran
ny, to these cowardly headloppers. The
choice of officers, and that of administra
tors, are in every particular the fame :
we fee thoughout the tyranny which flat
ters the wicked, because the wicked alone
can support tyranny :—And, iti its pride
and its ignorance, this convention orders
the conquest and disorganization of the
whole universe : it fays to one of its gene
rals, go and take Rome—and to another,
SATURDAY, June 8, 1793.
sally forth and subdue Spain —to the end
that despoiling commiflioners, limilar to
those horrid Roman proconsuls againfl
whom Cicero declaimed, may be sent thi
ther. In the worst season of the year, it
fends the only fleet it poffefles into the Me
diterranean, to split and founder on the
rocks of Sardinia; whilst it exposes thr
fleets of Brest to the fury of the storms,
by fending them in qnelt of an Englilh
Seel that has not yet left its port.
In tile mean time a civil war spread
through all the departments. Some ot the
mfurgents are excited by fanataciim th;
neceilary effect of perlecution; others,
3 y a n indignation at the tragical and trmi
ffs end of Lotlis the Sixteenth ; and fl
eers, filially, by the natural principle of
,-efifting persecution.
Arms are every where taken up ; mur
iers every where committed; and every
■vhere are pecuniary supplies and proyili
>ns intercepted: Ihe Engiifli foment
hei'e troubles ; and will, by tneirfuccours,
"apply fuel to them at their pleafurc.
toon will every one of our corsairs difap
>ear upon the ocean, soon will the fouth
;ru departments cease to receive supplies
>f corn from Italy aud Africa ; and alrea
ly have those from the North and from
-iinerics been intercepted by the fquadroni
jfthe enemies. Famine will annex itfelf
o all our fcourg*»: and tiie ferocity ot
iUr canibals will but increase with our ca
amities.
Frenchmen! we have a rallying-point
•vhich can ftifle the monster of anarchy ;
tis the conflitution we swore to maintain
n 1789, 90. and 91 • 'tis the work of a free
>eople, and we fha.ll remain free, and (hall
•ecover our glory, by resuming our conili
ution-
Let us display our virtues, more efpeti
dly that of mildness : too much blood has
)een spilled. If the nionfters by whom
we have been diferganized chufe to fly, let
is leave them to meet their punilhmerr
>lfe where if they do not find it in their own
orrupted hearts; but if they wifli to fup
jort anarchy by new crimes, then shall the
irmy punifli them.
In the generosity of the enemies, we
lave so grievously outraged, I have found
he security of external peace. Not only
lo they treat humanely and attentively
)iir wounded, sick, and prisoners, who
"all into their hands —and all this in despite
if the calumnies spread by our agitators to
ender us ferocious—but they engage to
"ufpend their march, not to pass our front
ers, and to leave to our brave army the
ermination of all our internal diifenti
jns.
Let the sacred torch of the love of our
:ountry awaken in us our virtue and our
:onrage I at the bare name of constitution.
:ivil war will cease, or can no longer ex
ist unless against certain malevolent men
who will no longer be supported by foreigr
lowers. These have 110 hatred to any o
thers among us, except our factious crimi
nals, and desire nothing more ferventlj
:han to restore their esteem and friendflii}
to a nation whose errors and anarchy di
[furb and trouble all Europe. Peace wil
be the fruit of this resolution; and the
troops of the line, as weft at the brave na
tional volunteers, who, for thefpaceof;
year, have offered themselves as willing
'ucriiices to liberty, and who abhor an a r
=hy, will repofe'in the bosom of their fa
milies, after having accomplilhed this no
ble work.
As to myfellF I have already made ai
aath, and 1 repeat it before the whole na
:ion, and in the presence of all Europe
that immediately after having effected t'n<
"afety of my country by the re-eftablifn
ment of the constitution, of peace andgooc
arder, I (hall abandon every publicfunftion
and (hall seek in solitude the enjoyment oi
the happiness of my fellow-citizens.
The General in Chief of the French Army,
DUMOURIER.
Baths of St. Amand, April 2, 1793;
From the NEWPORT MERCUR Y•
TO all those who are pleased to fee the
French nation emancipate thenifelves
from a government too preposterous and
corrupt to be any longer tolerated —To all
those who are anxious and fearful for their
fucccfs, in a struggle the most daring, the
molt dangerous and virtuous, that was e
ver made by any portion of the human
race, at a moment when their whole hori
zon ("eems darkened with enemies—BK IT
KNOWN, that this fame FrencU uation
have heretofore fought anil conquered
against this fame combination of foes :
"January l6tb, 1692, At the Congress
of the Hague, confining of the princes ot
Germany, the Imperial, the Englifli, Ita
lian, Spanish and Dutch ministers, a decla
ration was drawn up, wherein they so
lemnly protested before God, that their in
tentions were never to make peace with
Louis XIV. until he had made reparation
to the Holy See for whatever he had acted
against it; and till lie had annulled and
made void all those infamous proceedings
against the holy father Innocent XI : or till
he had reltcred to each p«rty ail he had-ta
ken from them since the peace of Munftrr
—Nor till he had restored to the Protelt
ants of France all their pofleilions and
goods, and an entire liberty of cohfcieilce
—Nor till the e'ftatcs of the kingdom of
France {hould be eltablHhed in their anci
ent liberties; so that The clergy, the nobi
lity, and the third eflate m'rglit enjoy their
ancient & lawful privileges — Nor till their
kings, for the future, fliould be obliged to
call together tilt.- said eltates when they
delired any supply, without whom they
Ihould no: raise any money 011 any pre
tence whatever, and till the parliaments of
that kingdom were restored to their jult
rights.—And the confederates jnvited the
fubjeils of France to join wi'h them in
f'lis undertaking, for lettering them to
tkeir rights h id liberties; threatening rll -
ir and devaflation to thole that refi<led.'
B it how much the French government re
• rded this threat, the tollowing lads
« ill Ihew.
"April loth, 1692, Mons was furrcn
dered to the French*
" June sth, 1692.' The town of Namur
surrendered to the French*
" August: A battle was fougbt at
Steinkirk, the confederates were comman
ded by king William in person, and the
French by the duke of Luxemburg —"1 he
jnfederates were forced to retreat with
ftie loss of several Uioulr.nd brave oi .cers
and soldiers.
" June 16th, 1693- Admiral Rook with
:wenty-three men of war, having the Tll r
key fleet under his convoy, was attacked
uff cape St. Vincent by the whole French
leet, under tlie command of Admiral
Tourville ; twelve Fnglilh and Dutch men
of war, and above sour-score merchant
men were taken or dcflroyed by the
French.
" July E9th. The confederate army
commanded by king William, was entire
ly defeated by the French, under the com
mand of Luxemburg, at Landen, ill Bra
bant.
" September 24th. The French under
he command of Monsieur Carmat, defeat
ed the confederates, under the command
:>f the Duke of Savoy and prince Eugene,
it Marligiia, near Turin,
" June Bth. The English fleet with a
Dody of land forces on board came before
Brest in France, and gen. Talmarlh land
ed with the firft five hundred men, w here
they found such batteries and entrench
ments that they retired immediately to
;heir ihips ; br.t the tide going out, the flat
joata ltruck upon the ouze and were not
ible to get off, and most of those that land
ed were killed or wounded, and among
:he reft general Talmarfli biuifelf was
mortally wounded, and died at his return
to Portsmouth.
May 26th. The French made themselves
masters of Cathagena, in America, from
which admiral Ponts brotight away with
him to Franca the value of twelve millions
of crowns, according to the Spaniih ac
count,
" July 26, 1697. The earl of Portland,
and Marflial adjulled the differ
ences between king William and the French
king near Brufl'els, without the privity of
any of the allies, w.hu were treating at
Ryfvvick : And September it, tha peace
wasfigned between France, Great-Britain,
Spain, and Holland, and ratified by king
William at Loo the 15th. King William
concluded this peace, without the concur
rence of the emperor and tne empire,
and left them to contend alone with
France."
Thus did this nation (who at that time
werefpoken of by the English as ragged,
hals-starved Frenchmen, fed on fiog-foup)
defy and triumph over a combination oi
enemies neqriy equal to the present, and
upon thefume ground-
From this piece of hiftoi y, the friends
of France, of humanity and equality, njay
learn two important points. Fnit, that one
hundred yearsago,tlie miferiss &fufferings
[Total Numb. 168.]
of the French nation, from a cruel govern
ment and policy, was not a mere vulgar
notion, but a real grievance, that employed
the councils ant! arms-of nearly alt Europe
to redress it. And secondly, that this
fame French people, under this cruel go
vernment, badly cloathed and fed, by'diut:
of numbers, bravery,'activity and iugenui
ty, \\ ere a match for England, the emperor,
and the princes of Germany, the Dutch,
Italy, and Spain—Good Heavens ! of wljat
contradictions are men capable:—ln the
year 1692, the princes of F.urope pledged
themselves to their god and ro eaehother,
that they will reform the abuses of French
government, and mend the condition of the
people, bur are not able to do if. Thi;
French groaned under these increasing a
buses one hundred "years longer, and then
(jreuk their chains. And lo ! these f3ine
princes combine, with the molt Herodian
K rocity, to exterminate the people of
France, for doing of thenifelves, and for
thenifelves, what these princes wished and
attempted in vain to do for them. Kings
and hereditary princes, irom Pharoah and
Kehoboam, down to the Frederick's and
George's of our time, have been just as
beneficial to the human race, as fchool
iioys have been to the race of fparrovv?
They have killed more men by kindness,
iii adminiltering the benefits of a'good go
vernment, than havJ been destroyed by fa
mine, pelfiTence, ea/thquakes, and every
other scourge to.which men are liable.—
Our late moll gracious sovereign, in the
richnofs of his cleitiency, and the fulnefs
uflijs royal mercy, put about 150,000 of
liis very good fubjeftsin America to death,
to convince them how to live comfortably,
and alter all failed of conviilion. The
present combination of princes in Europe,
actuated by the noble and godlike motive
nf bettering the condition of mankind, are
about to teach the molt polilhed and en
lightened nation in the world, that they
are wholly unable to manage their own
affairs ; and that they mull receive a good
plan of government from them, viz. AH
[he natives and inhabitants of France, to
be divided into three grand divilions; the
firfr,an hereditary nobility ; the fecond.fol
ilieri; and the third commoners, or fieri
?tat ; in plain language, hewers of wood,
and drawers of water ; so that every com
mon man in France lhall have two masters,
the one called a civil officer or matter, who
holds a pen and paper, and marks down
low much he mull pay to government a
year; the second, called a military officer,
chat is an uncivil mafier, who carries a
tiayonet, and pricks him on in cafe he don't:
jay in season. The two firft divilions are
.0 eat the egg, the third eAate the fliell
and the bruth ; the two firft divisions will
t>e taught to fight and read, and keep the
third to hard labour and poor living. Butt
we trull, and sincerely believe, that the
wit, activity and bravery, that have main
tained their territory and reputation a
midlt furroundhig 'enemiej for ages past,
will dill support them, to verify by prac
tice and example the truth of that potition,
made by one of their own writers, thau
mankind may be happy without kings.
No. J.
COOL REFLECTIONS RET. ative Tt»
THE FRENCH REVOLUTION.
Mr. Kreneav,
■"pHE affairs of France, the late measure
of putting the king to death particu
larly, have produced much diflerence of o
pinion in the world ; so that some who
wi 111 well to the true happiness of mankind,
but have not the time or the means of ex
amining the matter for thenifelves, are at
a loss how the revolution ought at prefect
to be viewed, or what should be the right;
difpolitiyn and feelings of this country to
wards that. To this temperate descripti
on of lionert citizens I ihaM offer, for their
conlideration, a few thoughts 011 rhe fub
jett founded on fa£ts, and dictated by rea
son and morality. Infodoingl ffiall en
deavour to keep in the line of true liberty,
equally defpiling the hard-hearted sons of
arrillocracy who seek to crulh it, and dis
regarding the hot-headed promoters of
levellil'm. if any such there be, who would
run into anSoppolite extreme.
Rel'pecting the lentence against the un
fortunate Louis, I would oblerve, that the
tlilFererfce in convention was not occa
fuined by any appearing do tibtfulnefs of kisgußt; but consisted ill tli« different views
ol tile policy best befitting the peouliarcir
cumltances of tlie cafe. llie members who
inclined molt in his favour never pretend
ed that he had been otherwise than trea
cherous to his flation and lo his country.
Thomas Paine appears to.have been moll
indulgent on the occafiou, yet he allow:
the king to be guilty of the facts charged
and apologizes for Jhim, by catting tUt
blame on tile aflembly that replaced him 01
the throne after his elopement, when thei
ought to have laid hold on that fair oppor
tunity for an earlier extirpation of royal
iy. The opinions of Briifot and others o
molt eminence in the convention, went al
011 the jjndeniaJ>lenefs of,the proof, and tb<
jultice of pan lh-nent, but from ideas o
prudence and expediency inclined to dif
lerent modes of llaying the execution
Hence I conclude, that the proof mill) liavi
been very clear and irr«fiftable against thi
unhappy Louis.
Further: It is to be conlidered thai asal
molt of the able!! men in the conventi
011 were from motives of policy or pity a
gainst proceeding immediately to the ftna
act, the death of Louis cannot be charje<
to the overpowering talents, address, am
influence of particular leaders of the body
and consequently mult have flowed fron
the free sense of the bulk of the mem
bers; or rather probaolv from a regard t(
the sense and spirit of the nation at large
fur we discover no reafo.n to doubt that tin
measure was in the fulleft harmony witl
the feelings of the public. And I believi
it will be found generally true, as happen
ed in our revolution contrary to thu alfer
tions of its enemies, that in trying time
when all depends on the support of tin
people, public bodies rather folld"\v thai
lead the mind of their conftiruents.
Suppoling then that Louis was in fai
guilty of treason, aggravjted by perjur;
and ingratitude against his country, an(
that his punifliment was functioned by tin
sense of the nation, who certainly had tin
sovereign right to judge its own magif
trates ; I cannot perceive upon wlia
ground or principle any one, but parti
ticularly any American, can undertake t<
use the cruel language againlt France an<
the revolution, fonie times uttered in par
ticular circles of thi* city, and echocd ii
certain newfpupers. Nor can I ever be
lieve, where ignorance or mifinformatioi
cannot be pleaded, that any who do uf<
this language,are in their hearts either trui
Americans or sincere republicans. Why
Sirs, this uncharitablenefs towards agrea
nation, ftrugglingfor its rights and libertie
against the molt wicked and powerful con
federacy of tyrants that ever disgraced tin
earth, and fuel: a tender fyinpathetic feel
ing for a king who was notorioufiy ant
treacherously conspiring in the attempt t<
refix the yoke on five and twenty million:
of people, who had nobly shaken it off
Kings are no where any longer held to tx
divine. That blasphemous folly has va
niflied before the dawn of reason and truth
In this enlightened country even the fa
crednefs of their persons is justly detmec
a inoft slavish, absurd, and pernicious doc
trine. Guided by the true principles o:
liberty and the experience of free go
vernments inlhtuted for the public good
everyfincere- American will fay, that kings
where they hold their power againlt tht
will of the people are usurpers and tyrant:
and so, being the greateit of malefaitor:
deserve the severest punifliment ; and thai
where they derive their power from thf
will and authority of the people, there
like other magistrates, they mull be an
fvverable for their conduit to the nationa
sovereignty ; and in cafe of treachery 01
abuse of power given for the public good
may be brought to condign punifliment.
Gratitude, I perceive, is now a can
word in the mouths of all who endeavoui
to alienate the good wishes of Americ;
from the cause of liberty in France, by ex
citing our pity and companion for the un
happy Louis. Some have gone so far as tt
tell us in the newspapers, that all our obli
gations were to the king, not to the peo
ple or natron of France : and that his deatf
has put an end to our treaties of coramcrci
and alliance, and by parity of reasoning, tt
all the debts we owe to France. Nay, ii
has been suggested by Pome that the treat)
and guaranty being made with Louis a
gainlt hi? enemies, America wat bound tc
support him in all his kingly power and ar
bitrary prerogatives even against his owr
nation, after the rupture took place be
tween them. As the authors of all fuel
fhameful quibbling fophiltry against public
faith, national honour, and the firft princi
ciples of moral duty must be either the se
cret tools offome unfriendly foreign pow
er, or moved by an inbred malice again!)
the republican cause in general, I (hal!
leave themto that just contempt and de
testation, which they metitfrom a virtuous
and lenfible people. But it will be proper
to examine a little the point of gratitude,
which being a highly laudable and honour
able I'entiments we onght to fee well who
has the true title to it, and what duties we
lie under therefrom. This enquiry will
be contained in another paper, which I
will endeavour to finifh in time fer your
next Gazette.
PHILADELPHUS.
June 5, 1703,
For the National Gazette.
'"pHE citizens of Philadelphia hive at
length broken the fetters of idolatry; they
i havf emancipated themselves from their
superstitious veneration for individuals, and
have fixed their eyes upon one immutable
point, that of truth. As long as man ac
customs himfeff to reverence the supporter
of a principle, inllead of tits principle it
jelf> so long will he be liable to impolition,
so long will he be exposed to deception ;
but when truth, immutable and eternal, is
his obje£t, the fluctuations of human opin
ion! and conduit, will not tarnish the prin
ciple any more than clouds interposed will
destroy the brilliance ef the fun. Religior
itfelf has futfered frequently in the estima
tion of mankind, because its disciples have
acted incompatibly with its dictates; the
temple of liberty has been profaned because
pretenders to virtue have offered incense or
the altar ; but If rip religion and liberty oi
men ; behold them in their naked and ab
flracted ilmplicity. and our adoration anc
affeflion will be eternal. Revolution! are
too often favourable to thai tyranny which
they are intended to deflroy, for this plain
reason, that the affection which ought to be
given to the principle, is given to fomedif.
tinguifhed agent; and the natural ambitior
of the human foul, its innate thirst of pow
er, makes it embrace every occasion tc
lord it over its fellows. Thus are thing!
diftinft confounded, and the principle ii
1 condemned because the agent has beer
combined with it.
The civic fealt of Saturday is an epoch
in the annals of this country —never wai
a larger and more refpcftable lonventior
of citizens in Philadelphia, to express theii
zeal for liberty, and never were men ani
mated with more genuine sentiments ol
philanthropy and independence. Neithei
slaves to opinions nor to men,they disclaim
ed every homage but to the sacred princi
ple of liberty itfelf. The falhions of mon
archy had been preserved, bad been chr
rilhed in this country with maternal felici
tilde ; a transfer had been made of its vir
tue and patriotism to an individual, and !
man received the homage from citizen!
which JubjeCts only are in the habit of be
llowing, and which is due to the aggregatt
patriotism of America. With such man
ners and such habits, how easy the transi
tion to monarchy 1
The citizens of Philadelphia were among
the firlt to aifert the cause of freemen—ai
the commencement of the revolution, the)
were the fird to oppose the idolatrous cuj■
turns of monarchy, which have risen with i
hot bed growth. Freemen should rever
ence their LAws, and rejpett theii
magistrates—to reverence the magiflrate i:
to,make him equal to the laws, and thi:
equality is the bane of freedom. Kow de.
firable then that the example of the citi
zens whoaflembled at the civic feaft should
be fallowed f—How worthy of imitation is
the conduit of men, who have " 710 otAer
idol than and who place their de
pendence, not upon an individual, but
" upon the whole body of the people
The fervour of liberty which animated
men diflintf in language, but congenial in
principle and in foul, was a luxury to vulgar
minds unknown. It was the enthusiasm ol
humanity conne£ted in the warm and ten
der embrace ot friendfliip— The American
charafler never (hone more refpleadent,
than when freedom and gratitude linked it
to a nation who had alliited in breaking
the fetterj of despotism, forged for this
country.
It mull be a consolatory refteftion to the
republicans of the United States, that the
spirit of equality has awakened from the
deep which the anodyne of aristocracy had
produced. Men and things begin to be
analysed, an'd the perfection which'an en
thusiastic attachment taught us to expect,
has proved to be a change, in discord with
equality, and in unison with royal itarion.
In proportion as we awaken from the
dream, we fliall discover that men vary
with their stations, and that there is nofe
curity, and no dependence but upon the
whole people. We have too many of the
follies of monarchy in our country, and it
is high time to purge onrfelves of them—
let us begin ere they hava taken too deep
root, for it is lnach ealier to pluck out the
plant than to fall the tree. Let the true
republicans form a centre of union ; let
:hem determine to exterminate the politi
cal herelies which have sprung up among
:is , let them, from this moment, declare
ivar against every aristocratic and monar
chical principle and fafhion, and hippinefs
ind liberty will be perpetuated.
AN OLD SOLDIER.
June 6, 1793,
For the National Gazetti.
'"pHE apprehending of two failorsfor en
-1 tering into the service of France, by the
executive of the United States, has occa
sioned serious alarm in the brealts of the
citiaens in gene-al, who are without Che
vortex of Britijh influence—They are to
tally at a loss to comprehend the principle
upon which a freeman can be arretted
for entering inio a foreign service. During
the American revolution, and previonfly to
the recognition of the American republic
by France, many Erench officers entered
eu;- service, one! they were fuljetts,
and owed allegiance to a /overeign, yet
they were not arrested and committed to
pnlon for it. Even in the despotic govern
ments oi Europe, officers leave their coun
try v. hich is at peace, and engage in a fo
reign war—lf the privateer did not art un
der the authority of a French comnuflion,
there would have been jultice in the arrest;
but as she did, what shadow of just pretext
can there be, as no ails of hostility were
committed as American citizens, but as
volunteers in the service of France ? Has
the European conftriiflion of allegiance
found entrance in America? It has been
thedottrine of freemen, that they owed
no allegiance but to the laws, as they had
no other fovereigu ; but it appears as if the
sovereign was changed, and that inflead of
laws, proclamations are substituted ! The
doctrine of the sovereignty residing without
the law s may suit the meridian of London
or Cwnltantinople ; but heaven forbid that
Americans should already 'fivbmit to have
their government tortured to support the
purposes of tyranny. Admitting for arrro
ment, that there was a law of the United
States prohibiting their citizens from as
sisting their French brethren, would it com
port with the good faith of our country —
would it be reciprocating the good offices
of France, to punish men who would serve
her? Are treaties of alliance of so little
moment to our governmental men, that
they not only with to a« faithlefsly and un
gratefully themselves, buc to prevent citi
zens from acting up to their wifhesaud
their rights? The treaty of alliance be
tween America and ,Fi anc*e required cer
tain offenfive operations from us, and not
withstanding this, a proclimatioii was itfu
ed, without knowing what the amount of
the minif!e inftruetions were, "enjoining
the ftrifteft neutrality, it being the 'duty'
°f 'he United States to treat France, Great
Britain, Pruflia, &c. with the fame good
fellow/hip. It perhaps may not be aniifs to
ask if treaties have the force of law here ?
Or if proclamations can set them aiide ?
If they have the force of law, how crimi
nal is the prosecution of the two volun
teers j it proclamations can fupcrfede them,
how loft is our country. The government
of the United States shows a disposition to
draw th« cords of authority tighter than
proper: and it js certainly of the moll inter
elting moment to freemen to keep a watch
ful eye over some influential charaflers ;
a want of attention in a republic is crimi
nal, for it permits opportunity for usurpa
tion. There is a tendency in all govern
ments to despotism, for there is a difpofK
tion in the human mind to tyranny, and to
guard again ft a calamity so great, requires
the molt zealous vigilance, and the rnoft
minute enquiry iVito every tranfaflion
which has even the semblance of usur
pation.
BRUTUS.
June sth, 1-93.
CANALS.
[From the Whitehall evening Port, March
,6 > '793-]
Mr. Curzon's reply to the answer of the
Afhbey de la Zonch Canal Committee to his
safe and objection—That the proposed ca
nal, from its necessary depth and length of
cutting within the rock which contains
Mr. Curzon's spring will inevitably destroy
it, will be clearly proved, as well by the
evidence of men whose abilities and great
practical kuowledge of mineral fubjefts
cannot be questioned. as by the evidence of
the persons whom Mr. Curzonfirft con
futed.
If the Afhbey de la Zouch committee
were.' as certain that the spring in question
would not in the f'malleft degree be injured
by the projeited canal, why did they after
declaring in the country newspapers, for
many weeks, that the spring would not be
destroyed, and offering to guarantee Mr.
Curzon in the full enjoyment of it, so
earnestly request that Mr. Jeflbp and Mr.
Whitworth might make further experi
menUonMr. Curzon's eflate, in order to
demonstrate whether the intended canal
wouid in any manner, and how, injure the
spring which supplies his house, and thus
incautiouily admit that furtherexperiments
were neceflary to ascertain whether the
spring would or would not bedeftrov«d. As
the making the proposed canal would be
the inevitable deftruftion of the spring, the
futility of the offer of a guarantee, and of
being at the expencc of laying pipes to the
Itoufe, is but too apparent.—The Afhbey de
la Zouch committee not having varied the
course of their projeaed canal one yard
from the line firft proposed for its direc
tion, Mr, Curzon's objections on account
of its interfering with his plan of extending
the limitt of his park is still unremoved,
notwithstanding the committee's pretence
of giving him the utmost fatisfaftion in that
particular.
To judge how far the landed interest
approved the bill, it may be neceflary to
rein ark, that the country have twice ne
gatived thepropofal of carrying the intend
ed navigation from Afhbey to Grits.and that
near 14 miles in 30 of landowners, or) the
line from Afhbey to Griff, are now diffdet
irg, from a conviction that private intertji
has suggested the present line—a line which
cannot be fnpuurted 0.1 the rrouad of pub
lic, utility.
[b rom the Whitehall Evening Pod.]
House cf Lords, March 14, 1793.
CANAL BILLS.
The order of the day being read, that
all the Lords be summoned—
Lord Stanhope presented to the honfe
the refoliitionsrefpefting canals : and their
lordfliips unanimously ordered that these
rtjolutions Jhould be entered tn the jour
nals.
ift. That no canal bill ftiall be read a
third time in the house of lords, unless no
ticeof the intention of cutting such canal
(hall have been inserted three times in the
London Gazette, in the months of Anguft
and September previous to the session of
parliament in which such bill /hall be
brought in, and unless a notice has been
printed, in the country papers of the town
through which fjch canal is intended to be
cut, in the said months of August and Sep.
tember.
2d. That these notices fliall contain the
names of the parishes and townlliips, and
110 other, into which such canal, Sic. is in
tended to be cut.
3<t. I hat 110 bill shall be read a third
time in the house of lords, unless a map of
tiie intended cut has been dcpofited with
the clerk of parliament, describing the
line, together with a book of reference
containing a lift of the names of the own
ers and occupiers of such lands refpe&ive
ly, with an annexed estimate of the ex
pense, ligned by the person or persons who
are to make the fame; with also an ac
count of the Aims then fubferibed, and the
names ofthefubferibers.
4th. No bill ihonld be read a third time,
unlels application has been made to the
owners of the lands through which fucli
canal is to pass for their consent, and unless
the map or plan has been (hewn to such
owners, diltingniftiing who has ailenterf
and who has diflenfed from such intended
canal, and unless the map has been depo-
I ted with the clerk rf parliament.
No. nr.
To titk PRESIDENT of the
UNITED STATES.
SIR,
J\ I this momentous crisis of our public
affairs, when solemn treaties and the
lacred rights of American citizens seem to
be openly violated, it were treason against
the deai eft intersfts of America not to warn
her firlt magiflrate to ihut his ears against
the whispers of servile adulation, and to lis
ten to the solemn admonitions of patriotic
truth. Let not, I bcfeech you, the opiate
ot sycophancy, adminiflered by interested
and deligning men, lull you into a fatal
lethargy at this awful moment. Conlider
that a iirit magillrate in every country is
no other than a public servant, whose con
duit is to be governed by the will of the
people, as expressed in their constitution
and lawi.
The legality of your proclamation I do
not now propose to invefiigate, but permit
me to a/k, if a proclamation was juftiiiable
and proper in r793, was it not equally foia
1792, when several European powers were
actually engaged in 3 war ? If so, why was
it deferred till Great-Britain became a par
ty? I believe such answers could not be
given to these questions as would be per
ieaiy fatisfactoiy to the public. It is but
too evident that the conduit of ourgovern
ment, with respect to that of Great-Britain
has tor some years pall been lhametully
pusillanimous. For ten years has that
haughty nation held polTeflion of posts int
our territory, in open violation of treaty,
as if we were tributary provinces. Whe
ther our government has demanded them,
and been insultingly refufed, are fails with,
which the American public have not been
made acquainted. It is to be hoped that
our public councils have not been duped
into any difgraceful negociation, respecting
the American posts occupied by the Britilh.
If they have, lee the infamous Iranfaition
be divulged. If they have not, let them
publish the truth for the fatisfaaion of the
public, and in vindication of their own
conduct. Let government ever avoid that
narrow policy which involves in mystery
the avis of public men, which ever creates
diftrufl in the minds of the people, and is
only fit to be praclifed by magiltrates the
moll corrupt and worthless. Should the
people be much longer kept in the d»rk on
thisfubjefV,icwould not be furprizingif they
took the law into their own hands(as Ethan
Allen and his Green mountain boys did in
1775) and wipe off the disgrace of the na
tion by driving the invaders from our coun
try. I forbear to enlarge further on this
difgraceful theme.
Since my last letter was written, I have
learned with regret, that those citizens
who complained that our treaties with
trance were violated by the proclamation,
construed it rightly. It seems that our
conrts are to take cognizance of the legal
ity or i!leg»lity of prizes brought into our
ports by the french cruisers; an intermed
dling expressly prohibited by treaty—Per
mit me to ask. Sir, whether you conlitler
yourfelf veiled with legal powers to annul
solemn treaties by proclamation ?
I have also been informed that two melt,
formerly citizens of the United States, but
lately in the service. of France, have bee»seized «nd thrown into jail, to be tried by
our laws, for a violation of the neutrality,
declared in your proclamation. This is an
important queitioii indeed, whether we
view it as ail intuit to France, or as ail in
fringement of those rights which it is pre
sumed every American citizen poffeilej, o(
entering the fcrvice or becoming the citi
zens of a foreign nation whenever he think:
proper: questions, these, which I lhall not
now discuss. I shall oiiJy remark, th.it, it:
my opinion, an American on entering int<
tils service of any of the belligerent powers,
puts hiiufelf beyond the jurifdiotion as wel
as out of the protection of the Unitec
States.
But notwithstanding all our endeavour
to curry favour witn Great-Britain, it i
• viJent that file despises our profeflions an<
acts of neutrality. We are informed bj
the public prints that, in open violation o;
the rights of neutral nations (lie has deter
mined to seize velfels bound for France
though they may have no contraband arti
cles o.i board ; and that no neutral veife
which has cleared out from a French port
is to be admitted into a Britifn port. Wil
not this, together with the retention of th«
Weltern Poits, serve to convince Ameri
cans of the hostile views of Great-Briitin j
I conclude, Sir, by cautioning you no
i V> take all upon your own (houlders ai
•/his critical juncture. Let the represen
t at Ives of the people, wha can alone expref:
the national will, be (peeddy convenec
and let all branches of the governmeni
unite their councils and their efforts toi
the promotion of the public good.
VERITAS.
June 6.
PHILADELPHIA.
Saturday, June 8.
The following was the (late of the Frencl
navy i;i January last. Seventy-four ships
of the line, exclusive of ten on the stock;
nearly finifhed. Sixty-two frigates, and lis
new ones on the Itocks in great forward
nefs. Twenty-nine sloops of war from iS
to 26 guns. Twenty-two armed b'igs,
from 12 to 18 guns ; 14 flutes or pinks ;
16 lighters, and one tartane, or large armed
galley. Several (hips of force have (ince
■been taken, chiefly in the Mediterranean,
and added to the French navy. We are
authorized to fay that the (hips were never
better manned in any former war; and of
ficered with infinitely abler men than under
the monarchy, when birtli had the prece
dence of merit. There were atfea in Jan
uary last, ninety-five large French priva
teers of different denominations, having 011
board them 25,172 men, and 2870 pieces of
cannon of different bores ; the number of
these has greatly increased since that time ;
and in general their cruises have not pro
ved ineffectual.
On Wednesday afternoon last, Mr. Blan
chard made his parachute experiment,
with complete success, in presence of a vast
concourse of fpeclators. A balloon .of ten
feet diameter, was inflated, to the lower
part of which was attached a bafliet con
taining a dog, a cat, and a squirrel. The
cords by which the balloon wai held being
cut, the balloon ascended rapidly to a vafl
height in the attnofphere with its passen
gers. A match had been so placed as tc
separate at a certain height, the cord thai
connected the balloon to the parachute,
under which the animals were secured.
The balloon then rose with increased ce
lerity, in an inverted position, and disap
peared behind some thin clouds : The pa
rachute, with the baiket, descended atfirfl
rapidly, but soon spreading in the (hape oi
an umbrella, nearly, it fettled flowlj
and gradually to the earth, and brought
the travellers down in fafety near Bulh-
HiII, about one mile from this city. The
animals when at their greatest height were
elevated about one mile from the earth. —
From the preceding experiment, it is evi
dent that every heavy body attracted to
wards the earth with an acceleration pro
portioned to its weight and bulk, may de
scend with the lightness of a bird, by the
help of a parachute ; as Mr. Blanchard
once experienced himfelf, when foine ac
cideit happening to his balloon at a great
diltance from the earth, he was obliged tc
descend in this manner from a perpendicu
lar height of (ix n.iles, in Zeland.
frigate L'Ambufcade, we hear, as
gaji>- out of the Capes of Delaware.
The (hip William, captured by the French
privateer Citizen Genet,andthebrigFanny,
aprize to the Sans Culottes, have been li
belled againlt by their former owners, as
illegal prizes.
When the last veflels left Ireland, it was
currently reported, and believed there,
that it the combined armies prevail against
France, England intends then to invade
the United States of America. The north
western pods being still in the hands of the
Briti(h, gives some colour of reality tc
such dark designs, though yet in eHibrio.
Richard Howell, Esquire, is appointed
Oovernor of New-Jerfsy, vice William
Paterfon, Esquire, appointed one of the
judges of the fuprenie icdei'4 court.
Abjlracl of Intelligence by the lajl
arrivals.
After general Dumourier's defe£tion
from the canfe of the nation, he was san
guine enough to suppose he pofTelfed the
confidence of tke army in fiich a degree
that he could march them to Paris, and re
eltablifh despot fm in the person of the
dauphin. With this view he proceeded to
Cambray at the head of ig.ooomen. Here
the patriotic sentiments of the army began
to dit'cover trieuifglves ; the artillery and
national volunteers firft deserted him, and
the remainder in rapid fuccefiion. In vain
he endeavoured to rally them by depicting
the republic cause as desperate, and the
Convention a hera of banditti : the army
refufed their alfent to his projects, and re
minded hirn of the oaths they had taken to
support the free conllitution of France. —
Dumourier then taking the alarm inftantlj
quit the army at the head of about one
choufand hussars, and returned haflily tc
the Aufhian head-quarters at Mons.
Young Egalite went off with him, and foor
after aflinued the title of Duke de Char
tres, a circumitance, it was thought, thai
would ruin the old Duke ol Orleans,and hii
party at Paris. Dumourier did not propoft
to remain long at Mons, but after coher
ing an army of French royalists iu the Ne
therlands, to resume his deligns iipor
France in favour of' royalty. Genera
Dampierre took command of Dumourier';
army on his leaving it.—This firm conduf
in the army had greatly damped the spirit;
of the despotic powers combined againf
France ; as from a long knowledge o:
Dumourier's treachery they had confiderct
monarchy as good as reitored, u l.ereas
now they saw it necelfary t» force theii
pallage into France, which would be :
work of time and attended with infinite
:xpenfe of blood and treasure : the fron
:ier of France being one of theftrongeft ii
he world, and a great number »f ltroni
jarrifons to be taken, before they coulc
venture to pass it.—ln England, great ex
ertions were making to f-upport the wai
igainft France on the continent : 3600 ca
/airy were under orders for foreign fer
rice, besides several regiments of toot, i
leing a received maxim at court, that th<
inal eftabiifhinent of repnblicanifm it
•'ranee would be the ruin of monarchy ii
England.—Many late letters from Europt
nention a profpe£t of a speedy peacc. Thi;
dea, it is presumed, proceeds from a fup
mlition that the republican system ir
■'ranee will be speedily crushed, as the def
>ots wilh to crulh it every where else eithei
>y force or bribery. But as republicanifir
s yet in higli vigour in France, it is noi
ikely a speedy peace will take place on the
"core of coaqueft.
Some letters (late, that it is the genera
>pinion, that the bill now pending in par
iament, declaring it high treajon to fel
>rovifions, &c. to French agents, or to di
e£l to proceed to French ports, will pas
nto a law—and this has lowered the price
jf wheat, flour,&c. very materially ; bu
an alteration in the injur anct clause
American bottoms, with American pro
luce, may be insured from America ti
France, and back.—lt is further (aid, tha
:ruifer« are expedited tothe coasts of Eng
and, Ireland and France, for the folepur
sofe of intercepting every kind of fupplie:
:o the French republic—thus is Englanc
sent 011 rhe definition of that republic- —
Very disgusting news had been received ii
Engiand, importing that the inhabitants o
Bridgetown, in Barbadoes, had burn
ting George's effigy, which it was though;
ivould be attended with serious confe
rences, it being less criminal in the eye
jf the court to burn ten living men thai
jne wooden king.—The following is s let
;er from the Commidioners of the North
;rn French Army, dated Valenciennes
Vpril 4, at 3 p. M.
"Citizens, our colleagues, yefterdaj
ind to-day many battalions have come ir
:o range themselves under the standard CI
:he republic. The traitor Dumourier wai
eft by the third battalion of Yonne at St.
Amand. He saved hnnfelf by swimming
he river.
"We have already sent you several
:ouriers, we do not know whether they
reached you or not.
" This inflant we learn that the arrny
marches to attack Valenciennes, com
manded by the traitor. To avoid all sur
prize we fend this difpatcli by two different
routes. Weare forming a camp at Fa
mars, but we want camp equipjge. The
republican army increases every quarter ol
an hour. The battalions bring few effects
with them, because they are obliged tc
conceal themselves ; if they durst avow
themselves the army of Dumourier woulc
Ipeedily be annihilated. We have confer
red the command of the army provifionall)
on general Dampierre, who appears to u
every way deserving of it.
'• We fend you the copy of two letter'
that we have addreflfed, the one to genera
Valence, and the other to general Egalite
We do not know whether our endeavori
wilt be crowned with success, but we as
sure you that they are dictated by th<
purest patriotism. We have written tc
our colleagues at Douay, to engage then
to place general Duval at the head of tilt
army of the Pas du Calais.
" At thisijillant, 5 s'clock in tlie eve
ning, the army of Daimauricr is no triors
to In seen. We presume that it is a falfe
ruiiiour. We harrangue the batallions as
they arrive, and we often fee tears of joy
Hart from their dyes at their having escaped
from the snares of the traitor. Several per
sons have been *rrelted with uncivic cock
ade*—you may believe that their process
was not long.—We have also arretted a
fecrctary of Dumourier, and he is this mo
iiu under examination.
'• Six o'clock. Th.ey just announce to
us that Dumourier Iras emigiated. The
third battalion of Yonne took an oath that
they would affullinate every traitor. This
oath was their own proper aft—it was the
product of patriotism. All the neighbour
ing places are in very good order. You
will ealuy pardon the derangement of our
letter. We ast and we write in the open
air.
Paris, April 7. We are informed that
yesterday three regiments of cavalry, and
twoot infantry, abandoned the ilandard of
the traitor, Dumourier ; anil that between
Queiiioy and Valencienneswe have already
30, oop fighting men. This day, in the Na
tional Convention,
Sevigny, aid-tie-camp to general Duval,
announced that Deveaux, Durnourier's
firft .;id-de-canip, \\ as apprehended j and
thut trie 40CO men whom Mazienfky had
led to take polTeffionof Lisle , had all (worn
to die in defence of the republic. A pro
clamation had been ilfued to invite all citi
zens to join these 4000 men, and already
numerous legions covered that important
purtof the frontier.
A letter was also read in the National
Convention, dated Valenciennes, April
sth. 8 at night, as follows- •' The Com
iniflioners of the Northern Army inform
the Convention that our country is saved.
The camp of MauldeAs dilbanding, and al
most all coming in to us.
" It is to be hoped, that to-iriorrow Du
mourier will be the general of an army
composed of two or three dozen officers
without soldiers or cannon. The firft en
try of artillery lonfiftcd of 80 pieces of
cannon, as we have already Hated ; 500
artillery waggons, -co gunners, and 700
auxiliaries. It is the heavy artillery ofSt.
Amand. Citizen Songis, lieutenant-colo
nel of artillery, fub-dire£tor of the park,
commanded this important portion of our
means of defence. Dumourier had sent
orders this morning to conduit this artillery
to Maulde.
" Half an hour past B.—We »re in
formed that the treasure in queltion is
retaken. The light artillery is come in,
but we know not the details. The artil
lery of Maulde is Hill on the ro2d, but will
jrrive in a few hours.
The Commissioners add, that if genera'
Ferrand had been left honourable, the)
mult now have been in the power of the
snemy, Dumourier having given onlersfoi
taking them. The lour commissioners
and Bournonville, had been carried fron
Mons to Bru(TelS,and thence to Maeftricnt
Bournonville having attempted to refill
had received several wounds with a sabre
" Nine at night.—Dumourier, Valence
and Egalite, the two Thouvinots. anc
"everal other officers, the commiffary
general Soliva, and the greater part of tlx
tinflars of Bercheny, are gone over to th<
enemy ; all the reft are ours. Genera
Diermann, who is jnH come into our office
with several officers and soldiers, allure u;
of this. Such is the catastrophe of the
piece. We have only to replace our cams
?quipage, and toreftore orderin this army,
disbanded and flocking hither detachment
an detachment ; but the intelligence anc
i6tmty of general Dampierre, whom we
lave appointed provisionally general ii
Chief of the division from Valenciennes
will retrieve us from these difficulties.
" Adjutant-general Cherin, who wa:
irrelted on the 3d by Dumourier s orders
ivas fortunate enough to elude the guards
and we to poflefs him (till, for he is an ac
:ive and intelligent patriot.
" We are informed, but not with cer
:ainty, that the enemy a--e marching in twi
:olumns against Conde."
French St. Domingo Jffairst
£From Port-au-Prince papers.]
Letter from the commilfioner Polverel tc
the Municipality of Port-au-Trince,
dated Nov. 22, 1792 .
" The people of the place whom you re
present, gentlemen have shewed a greal
example of patriotism. After experi
encing more than a year the miseries ol
war, pltmder, fire and devaltarion, the un
fortunate town of Port-au-Prince never
theless saved enough from the wreck of it:
former opulence to facrifice a million ofli
vres to the fafety of the colony ; and se
veral of its inhabitants made the greatell
personal exertions for raising this film
having previously renounced every idea ol
compensation for so doing. The whole
colony cannot be otherwise than acquaint
ed with these generous facrifices to the
public weal, facrifices which would electri
fy the coldest and most unfeeling hearts-
France ought to be acquainted with whal
was done, in order to diltinguilh the tri:e
friends of their country, and should be in
formed, that in no part are there more ri
gid observers of the laws, nor has the me
tropolis more 10731 citizens, nvr the fta
ti#nal Conventionmore Warm friends than
the inhabitants of Port-au-Prince. Will
you be so good, gentlemen, as to transmit
to your feilow citizens ray afiurances of
the completed fatisfa£tion,and the promise
I now make to employ all natural and mo
ral means, and to l'acrhice my life itfelf, if
nece/fary, to the prosperity of the colony,
and the happiness of those brave patriots,
who have so well deserved the title of
French citizens, with whicli they are ho
noured, and which I am happy in sharing
with them."
[To be continued in our next.3
Authentic extract of a letter from a gentle
man in Philadelphia to kit correspondent
in New-York j June -jth, 1793.
<l I received yours of jnft, and am
lorry to find you so much dispirited on ac
count of what you call the decline of thl
Hritijh interefl in Philadelphia. Believe
me, my friend, your apprehensions on this
(core are groundless. True, there was no
['mall suss among the " fwinilh populace"
t>n the arrival of Genet, but our interest.
with some men of influence is vVell secured;
The truth is, that many of them hope soon
Co fee the confederated powers turn their
attention to America after they have fet
tled the bulinefs with France. Some who
have experienced the sweets of office, would
rather hold their appointments for life
from the king, than be fubjefted to the con
tinual clamours of a rabble. Letters from
England render it probable, that one greet
Dbjeft of the late Congress at Antwerp, was
to fettle a plan for the division of the con
quells made and to be made.
which may be laid to be already conquered,,
will probably fall to the iliare of Rulfia and
l'rullia, fonie provinces of France to Auf-,
tria, and the French Welt-India islands.
together with the United States of Ame
rica, (as they have been called for somes:
time) will tall to Great-Britain. Thu*
will licentitufntjs be rooted from the face
of the earth ; France be puniflied for her
aerfidyjiu formerly aHillingthefe colonies iit
:heir unnatural rebellion ; and, what mult
yield sincere pleasure to every true Bi iton,
our gracious sovereign will be again pof
fefled of his revolted American provinces *•!
Believe me, the king has many good friend*
here. On Tuesday his birth-day was ce
lebrated by several companies, public and
private. 1 was one of an honest party of
Johnny Bull's, who kept it up at Richardet't
tavern, like men. lnclofed you have it
more particular account of the bulinefs,
than we thought prudent to publilh. A
lew of our toalls only were admitted into
two newspapers, and even this was going
far enough to (hew that we are not crowed
down by the " scoundrelly vtfhiggifh mob,"
who have made so much noise lince Genet'*
arrival. You mull have heard that it ist
determined in Great-Britain to seize all
American veflels bound for France, and tc»
admit into their own ports no veflel which
has cleared out from a French port. Thus,
you lee, that notwithllanding the nominal
independence of America, and the eftab
lilhed rights of neutral nations; Great-Bri
tain can still controul these upflart flateSj.
and regulate or prohibit their commerce as
Ihe thinks proper. Long may file reign
milirefs of the seas, and triumph over all
her enemies. At prcfent we hold the welt
crn polts, in spite of the clamours of fomer
turbulent Americans ; and soon, I hope,
we lhall fee the whole country under
drift subjection to its lawful sovereign.—*
America will not have France to aflill her
ss formerly, and in herfelf she is weak.'*;
P. S. " I request you may forward the in
closed packet to Lord Grenville by the firfb
vessel that fails for any port of Great-Bri
tain." [On the interefling contents of*
the foregoing extract, we leave every trufc,
American to make his own comments.]
A Pressman wanted.
One who i« diligent, dnd understands his
btifinefs well, may haVe an eligible situa
tion, and regular employ.—Apply at this
office.
FOR SALE,
Thirteen Hundred and Sixty Acres
vf excellent
Farming or Tobacco LaK£>s,
LYING in the county of Amherft, in thtf
state of Virginia, on one of the principal
Branches of James River, witirin fix miles of the
latter* from where it is navigable for boats of ten:
or twelve tons burthen.—Besides the advantage*
of these lands, for the farmer or eultivater of to
bacco, they are supposed, from a small thought
fuccefsful experiment, made ky the late colonel
Chil'well* to contain an abundanae of
which* if not of a precious (as has been ever*
fuppoled) are certainly of a very Valuable kind.
The better, however, to ascertain this fad), and
place the purchaser on a lafe footing, in so
ardous a business, as all those subterraneous re
searches, without the utfnoft certainty of am
abundance of the desired ore, is supposed to be*
every reasonable and neceflary alTiftance or indul
gence will be rendered those inclined to make the
experiment, as well as every other ne<"«(tary in-r
formation given by the Editor of this gazette, ia
Philadelphia, or
JOHN NICHOLAS,
Charlottcfville, Virginia;
Jifce S, Ja*6wPHILADELPHIA, June S.
lIE lad letters received by Citizen j
A Genet, minister plenipotentiary of
tlie French republic to the United States,
from the National Commissioners at St.
Domingo, contain the moil fatisfaftory
particulars refpefting the tranquility which
the colony enjoys firice the l'urrender of
Port-au Prince, on the I2tl» cf April last,
and ihe expulsion of men, who llirred up
by the Britilh government, had formeJ
rhedefignof delivering up the colony to
that power, where they had long been so
menting diflui-bailee.", and meditating the
ruin of the country, or its separation from
the French empire."
These inveterate enemies to France are,
110 doubt, those who have spread a notion
through the United States, that American
veffcis carrying provisions to the French
part of St. Domingo, might run the riffk
of being seized there with their cargoes.
The citizens of the United States, may on
the contrary red affined, that they lhall
always receive from the National Cum
mifiioner3 and public functionaries in that
colony, the pioteftion which they have a
light to expeift for themselves and their
property, and that they (hall be duly paid
lor all such articles as they may supply
the colony with ; the National Convention
having put coufiderable sums in their dis
posal for that objedt, besides what they
raise from the contributions in produce
levied on the inhabitants of the colony.
The attack made by the British on the
ifiand of Tobago, will be one of the me
morable serns of the French revolution.
Soldiers animatedbythelove ofhbertv,were
alone capable of the refillance which was
eppofed by FORTY MEN, to a very
numerous body of English troops. On
the 15th of April, in the night, the Eng
li;h landed on Courland Bay two com
plete regiments, besides a great number of
volunteers brought from Barbadoes, and
French emigrants from the colonies. The
landing was efiedted by the active adillance
of four fifths of the inhabitants of the
iiland, who are almost all English, and
with whom the British generals had long
maintained a secret correspondence. Those
coloniils who were atleait bound by their
oaths of allegiance, to remain quiet fpec
tatois of the contefl—ferved on the con
trary as guides to the English troops
during the night, who arrived at 3 o'clock
in the morning under the small fort of To
bago, garrisoned by 40 regulars only.
Not until that moment, was Montel, the
commandant, informed of the arrival of the
Britilh ; the garrison immediately pre
pared for a vigorous defence, with an ar
dour that it is irnpoffible to describe.
The brave Montel, who had already ac
quired a great reputation by his conduit
at St. Lucia, of which he was goveinorat
the time of the rebellion of Martinique
and Guadaloupe, being summoned to fur
lender, answered, that such men as his
fellow-foldiers and himfelf, could not sur
render to the slaves of despotism. The
filing began and was kept up very brilkly
on both fides ; the English aftonilhed at a
reliflance \vhich they were not prepared
for, from the affuiances they had received
from the French emigrants, that the pa
triotic banditti, would fly on their firft ap
proach, offered for the second time to the
commandant, a cap tulation on the mod
honorable terms ; his answer was, that he
never would capitulate, and that they
might begin the ailault with which he was
threatened. On this answer, the English
generals in fact ordered the foit to be
itormed : coinage was obliged to yield to
numbers, and the fort was taken sword in
hand. The loss was very corvfiderable on
the fide of the English, one of their gene
rals was dangerou/Iy wounded. On the
French fide, the brave forty were almost
all killed or wouqded, and the few survi
vors were sent to England as prisoners of
■war; commandant Montel was one d
these.
Those forty men, were a detachmenl
from the second battallion of the brave
31ft regiment, formerly called Aunis,
which is stationed at St. Lucia, and has
acquired the greatefl reputation, by the
valour and patriotism of the ciiizen sol
diers who compose it.'*
According to Britilh accounts, a Swe
dish naval armament is going forward in
the port of Carifcrona, in Sweden. The
fleet confillsof sixteen fail, from 70 to 26
guns. It appeared to be deflined for the
Baltic, and it was reported that a fleet of
35 Ruffian men of war were to join them.
Two commillionsrs of the French National
Convention were daily expe&ed at Stock
holm to aflc whether the Swedes' chose to
acknowledge the French Republic. In
cafe of refufal, they were to threaten the
government with an embargo on all Swe
iiift (hips in French ports. The fleet above
mentioned was to take on board three re
giments of land forces, and 3000 gunners
and matrofies.
The follawing lift of the members of the
third Congrefj of the United States, has
been collected from the newspapers of the
fevera! Hates, and is thought to be pretty
accurate. The Third Congress will meet
r>n the firft Monday in .December next. —
SENATORS—New Hamplhire ; Johr
Langdon, Samuel Livermore—Majfachu
felts; George Cabot, Caleb Strong; Rhode
[/land; Bradford, Theodore Foltei
— Connedicut ; Oliver Elfworth, Rogei
Sherman—Vermont ; Stephen R- Bradley
Moses Robinfon—NewTork ; Aaron Burr
Rufus King—New-Jersey ; John Ruther
ford, Frederick Frelinghuyfen—Pennfyl
vania ; Albert Gallatin, Robert Morris—
Delaware ; George Read, John Vining—
Maryland ; John Henry, Richard Potts—
Virginia-, James Monree, John Taylor—
Kentueley ; John Brown, John Edward:
—N'jrth Carolina ; Benjamin Hawkins
Alexander Martin—South-Carolina; Pierc<
Butler, Ralph Izard — Georgia ; Jame!
Gunn, James Jackson. —REPRESEN
TATIVE6" —New-Hampjhire ; Nichola:
Gilman, Jeremiah Smith, John S. Sher
bourne, Paine Wingatc—Majfarhufetts
Filher Ames, Shearjafhub Bourne, Davie
Cobb,Peleg Coffin, Samuel Dexter,Dwighl
Foster, Benjamin Goodhue, Samuel Hol
:cn,Wm Lyman,Samuel Lyman.Theodon
Sedgwick, George Thatcher, Peleg Wads
ivorth, Artemas Ward.—Rhode-IJland ;
Benjamin Bourne, Francis Malbone—Con
netticut; James Hillhoufe, Benjamin Hun
tington, Amafa Learned, Stephen Mix
Mitchell, Uriah Tracey, Jonathan Trum
Dull, Jeremiah Wadfworth—Vermont; Na
:haniel Niles, Israel Smith—NewTork ,
E. Van Allen, Theodorus Biiley, Philip
Vaii Cortlandt, Peter Van Gaafbeck, Eze
iiel Gilbert, Henry Glenn, James Gor
lon, Elias Talbot, Thomas Tredwell, Johr
Watts—New Jersey : John Beatty, Elia:
Boudinot, Lambert Cadwallader, Abra
lam Clark, Jonathan Dayton—Pcnnfylva
,la ; James Armstrong, William Findley,
Thomas Fitzlimons, A ndrew Gregg, Tho.
■nas Hartley, Daniel Heifter, William Ir
vine, John W. Ki'tera, William Montgo
mery, Frederick Augustus Muhlenberg,
Peter Muhlenberg, Thomas Scott, John
Smiley—Delaware ; John Patton—Mary■
'and; Gabriel Chriltie, George Dent, Uri
ah Forest, William Hindman, John F.
Mercer, William Vans Murray, Samuel
Smith, Thomas Sprig — Virginia ; Thomas
Claiborne, Isaac Coles, William B. Giles,
Samuel Griffin, George Hancock, Cartel
B. Harrifon, John Heath, Richard Blanc
Lee, James Madison, Andrew Moore, Jo
seph Neville, Anthony New, John Nicho
las, John Page, Jofiah Parker, Francii
Prelton, Robert Rutherford, Abraham
Venable, Francis Walker—Kentuehey ; A
lexander D. Orr, Christopher Greenup —
North-Carolina ; Thomas Blount, Williair
Johnson Dawfon, James Gillefpie, William
Barry Grove, Matthias Locke, Nathanie
Macon, Joleph M'Dowell, Alexander Me
bane, Benjamin Williams, Joseph Winfton
—South Carolina ; Lemuel Benton, Alex
ander Gillon, John Hunter, Andrew Pic
kens, William Smith, Richard Winn—
Georgia ; Abraham Baldwin, Thomas P.
Carnes.
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIQNS.
May 1793.
D. H{Bas. I Tbtr. W.nl- \V/eatber.
Tut/Jay, 2S. 6 29. S5) 70 E.N.ETair.
May. 3 20. 8c 68 E. Rsmy
Wtdntjday, 29. 6 29 & 57 b. N.h , Cloudy
3 29. 8 62 do. Cloudy.
•Iburjday, 30. 6 29. 7 34 E.N. Cloud).
3 29. 7 57 do. I do.
tnday, 31. 6 29.75 54 E.N .L Cloud)
3 29. 7 60 do. |
Saturday, I. 6 29. 7I 53 t. jß*l"-
June 3, 29, 7V 61 W. \Shoiotri
Sunday, 2. 0 29. 7 54 W. iClouds
3 29 8 64 N. E. tSbomm
Monday, 3. 6 1 29. 9 55 E. jCloudy
3 30. c s 62 j do. 1 Fair.
A FEW COPIES OF THE
TRANSACTIONS
Of t'n Society infiituted in the State of
New-York, for the promotion of
AGRICULTURE, ARTS, and MANU
FACTURES,
May be had at this Office.
[Price half a dov.lA.k.J
Department of State, to wit.
J HEREBY certify all whom it may con
cern, that I have received an official com
munication ol the form adoptee! for letters
of marque by the French republic of which
iorm the following is a translation. Given
under my hand and seal of office this 24th
day of May 1793. Th. Jcfferfon.
LIBERTY EQUALITY.
[n the name of the French Republic.
The provilionary executive council of
the French Republic permits by thefc pre
fects to arm and fit out for war
1 called the burthen tons, ot
thereabouts, actually belonging to the porl
of with ftich number of guns, bullet!
quantity of powder, lead and other war.
like stores and provilions as he dial
iudge necefl'ary to defend himfelf againlf
pirates, robbers, rovers and generally a
gainst all the enemies of the Frencf
Republic, in what place soever he maj
meet with them, to take and tonduci
them prisoners with their Ihips, arms, anc
0 her matters of which they may be poflef
;t ; provided, by the raid that he go
pd rn himfelf according to marine regu--
1 aeons and ordinancies of the reprefenta
:ives ef the French people, particularly the
Durth article of the decree ofjanuaryji,
refpe&ing the number of men necessary tc
make up his crew, and to cause these pre
sent Letters of Marque to be registered in
the Bureau des Classes at the plate froir
which he (hall fail, and to deposit there 2
lift, ligned and certified by hiinfelf, with
the names, surnames, age, place of birtl
and abode of the people of his crew ; anc
upon his return, to make report before ai'
afficer employed in the administration ol
:he clafles, of whatever may haveliappen
sd during his voyage.
The provilionary executive council re
lnelfs all people, friends and allies of the
[■Tench republic, and their agents to rentlei
:o the said every aliiltance, the free
jailing and repafiing in their ports, with hi<
aid velTel and the pi izes he may have made,
lereby granting the fame permiflion in fi
nilar cases. It is recommended and en
oined to the commanders of public vefTels
o fcifF-r the said to pass froely with
lis vellel and those he may have taken from
he enemy, and to render him every fuc
:our and a!lifiance.
These prefeuts not lo be in force but
or months only, reckoning from the
late of their being recorded.
In faith whereof the provilionary exe
utive council of the republic has caused
hefe letters to befigned by the minister ol
uarine, and the seal of the republic to be
hereunto affixed.
Given at Paris the day of one
thoufund seven hundred and
and year of the French republic.
(Signed,)
M O N G E.
By the minister of marine,
(Signed,)
C a T T R A N.
(Seal.)
Except this, no form is valid..
TO EE RENTED,
And poflVtfion given in July next.
A Merchant MIL L f
ALSO, a COUNTRY and a SAW MILL,
either separately or with all the
:on veniencies thereunto belonging, confining of s
sood framed dwelling house, store house, granary,
/hop, stables, &c. all in perfect good or
ier and almost new, situate in a fine wheat coun
:ry 9 on a constant and plentiful stream of water,
it the head of a navigable creek, called Mifiipilion,
trom whence the shallops tranf|iort flour to Phila
delphia without any trouble to the miHer, and ad
joining a flourifhing village that always affords 2
very ready lale for the offal of the merchant mill
and an abundance of custom to the country an,
|aw mills. Those advantages render these mifld
nfrior to none in this country; and the situations
for a rtore is ecjual to any in the ftatc. The
merchant mill is three (lories high with two paii
°>f burr Hones, double gear'd, a rolling fcreene and
fann that cleans wheat into both hoppers, twe
bolting chefis, and a machine for that goei
by water. This mill manufadiures principal!)
luperfine flour, that is much esteemed as such ir
Philadelphia. For terms apply to Robert Lewi;
and Co. merchants in Philadelphia, or the sub«
fcribers near the premises.
I LIZABETH THORNfi,
PETER. CAVERLY.
Milford, Kent County, State of Delaware
May. i, J793. 2aw t /
Books & Stationary.
ROBERT CAMPBELL,
Mo. 54, Second-Street, South, lecond door be
low the corner of Chefnut-ftrt et,
HAS IMPORTED,
By the late arrivals from Britain and
Ireland,
The ancient tc modern universal history, 60 vols,
Guthries hiltory of the World, 13 vols.
Biographical Di&ionary, 12 vols, elegantly gilt.
Anacharfii's Travels in ancient Greece, 7 vols 1
gilt.
Gibbons's Roman History, 12 vols. gilt.
Hume & Smoflet's Hiltory of England, 13 vols.
Robertlon's history of Charjes the*. V. 4 vok.
History of America, 3 vols.
De la Croix on the different conltitutions as Eu
rope and America, 2 vols.
New Annual Register, 12 vols.
Ntcker on executive Power, 2 vols.
RufftPs hillory of ancient Europe, 2 vols;
J.lilluiy of modem Euiope, 5 vols,
Ycurg's traiels 't\ France, 2 veto.
Fie/ding's Woiks, 12 vols.
PrieftJcy's LeCtures on History, 2 vols?
Same book in 1 vol.
P ieftley's Historical Charts on Rollers villi books
of description.
King of Pruflia's Wo: ks, 13 vols.
Enfield's History of Philosophy, 2 vols. 4to ele
ganily gilt.
Same book in 2 vols. 2vo.
Bell's British Theatre, 25 vols, coarse or hf\c
p aper.
[> ot kelpeare's Woiks, in 1 or 7 vols. ,
anic Garden, 2 vols, bound in one.-
oiheim's Ecclefiaitical History, 6 vols,
oddridge's Family Expofuor, 6 vols.
ardner's Works, n vols.
Whitfield's Wei-ks, 7 vols.
Biltop of Landaft's Theological Tra&s, 6 vols.
Large Family Bibles, with beautiful copper
plates.
Lavater on Phvfiognomy, abridged.
Young's Annals af'Agriculture, 1S vols.
Tour in France.
Natural History of Birds, colored plates, 3 vols.
Baretti's Italian and Englifli Dictionary.
Bwlarelli s do. do. do. 3 vols.
Italian and Engliih Exercises.
Paines Works.
i AnderCon on Commerce 6 vols.
Viner's Abridgment of the Law, 12 vols. 8 v®.
1 vVood's Conveyancing, 3 vols, folio.
Same book 4 fir it vols. Bvo.
| William's digest of the Engliih 2 voIs } .
Comjns's digest of the Law, 6 vols.
Croke's Reports, 4 vols.
Salkeld's Reports, 3 vols.
Henry Blackftone's do.
Wm. Blackfton's do. 2 vols.
Burrow's do. 5 vols.
Ambler's do.
Cowoer's do.
Brown's do. 2 vols.
Douglas's do. Veyfey's do. 2 tolj.
Dallas's do. Coke's do. 7 vols*
Wilson's do. 3 vols. Raymond's do. 3 vols*
Strange's do. 2 vols. Comyn's do.
| L/lly's Entries, 2 vols.
Coke on Littleton.
Morgan's EUays, 2 vols.
V.ittrll on the Law of Nations.
Woodefon's Lectures, 2 vols.
Harrifon's Chancery, 2 vols.
Hinde's do.
Powell on Powers.
Powell on Contracts.
EfpinalTe on Nisi Prius.
Sullivan's .LeCtures.
Eunomus, or in tSe Laws Se conftitu*
tion of England.
Motherby's medical Dictionary,
Mcdical Commentaries, it> »>>ia, by D»ncan.
Medical Communications and inquiries, 6 vols.
Medical Memoirs, 3 vols.
Morgan on the feat and causes cf diseases, 3 vols#
Pott s Chirurgical Works, 3 vols.
Olburn's midwifery.
TransaCtions of a new medical society.
Underwood on the dileafes of children, 2 voli,
Wallis's Sydenham, 2 vols.
Van Swieten's Commentaries on Boeihave, xS
vols.
Spallanzanics ditfertations, 2 vols.
Hunter on the Venereal dilcie.
Hunter on the diseases of the teeth.
Hunier on the animal ceconomy.
, Reid on the diseases of the army aad navy
Blank books of all lizes.
Writing paper of all kinds.
Durch quills ol the very best quality, &c. See.
R. C. will supply country (tore-keepers on the
very lowest terms, with family, pocket, and com
mon bibles, spelling books, reftaments, primers,
waters, writing paper, wrapping do. play/ng cards,
Englilh and American ink powder, quills, bonnet
papers, Young man's companion, Dilworth's
Arithmetic, Watt's psalms and hymns, Wesley's
hymns, dictionaries, histories of ail kinds, See.
■ TO THE PUBLIC. *
TX7"HEREAS an attachment at the suit of Sam
uel Imluy and Nathaniel Imlay, executors
of the testament and last will of Peter Jmlay, de
cealed, has issued out of the Supreme Cour of
Judica*. ore of rhe state of New-Jersey, against the
lands of Garret Voorheis, late of the county of
M ddlefex, and state aforefaid, returnable to the
firft Tuesday in September, fever,teen hundred
and ninety-two Notice is hereby given to the
1 said Garret Voofheic-, that unless he appearand
' file special bail to the said aCfcion, judgment
will be entered against him, by default, and the
lands so attached fold for th« fatisfattion of fucfl
of. his creditors as (hall appear to be justly entitled
to any demand thereon, and {hall apply for that
purpefe, according to the form cf the statute in
such cafe made and provided.
By order of the Court,
April 17. law. iy HOWELL, Clk-
Horrijbttrgb Mail Stage.
STARTS every \Vednefday from ?vlr. Henry
Epply's in race street, between third and
! fourth streets, and arrives at Flam/burgh on the
j Saturday morhing following—Starts from Mr»
Crabb's, innkeeper, .Harrifburgh, on Mond;y
arrives on Wednesday at Philadel <kia*fv
N. B. The Usading (t*ge (tarts from R; d".
at John Witman'a, innkeeper, on Mond;: ar:vi
arrives at Philadelphia on Tuesday mon ng—
Then (tarts from Philadelphia on Friday morn
ing at 4 o'clock, a.nd arrives at Reading on Sa
turday morning. The greatest care and attenti
on (hall be paid by the publics' humble servant.
WILLIAM COLEMAN.
N. B. A light stage upon fpiings, with two
horles, or without horses, with complete geers,
may be had at any moments' warning, for the
accommodation of ladies a»d"gent|emen, by ap
plying to the above named Wm. Coleman, living
11 the borough of Reading.
PRINTED BY
GUILDS and SWA IN E.
AT TMEIK OFFICE N0.209, HTO H-STR,EET>
NEAR FIFTH-STREET.,
r a 1 l as e i. rn-ktu