Numb. 103 cf Vol. 11.] I? Ji DNBS DA r, Oaobcr 23, 1793. [Total Num. 207 ]
For the National Gazette.
il Inafnuch as ye did it not unto one of
the leaf} of theje, ye did it not unto me."
Matt. xxv. 45,
"yE rich ! who ba(k in tfie fun-lhine of
ease and affluence . whole fpiendid car
riages wait at y >ur command, to roll you
to the the* theatre, to fceues of plea
sure and gay fellivity, look round you, and
canfider the liaiatlo'i of heiplefs widow:
and orphans, whole hulbands and father!
have been torn from them by the deitruc
tive pestilence—
To you they call,
And with a pleading voic£ —
to save them from hunger, cold, and na
kedness : Pitv, Oh pity the diltre lTes of ma
ny ofyour fellow creatures* who have novi
no friends, ro relations to a (lift & prote£]
them—spare a little of your fupeKfluou
expences indrefs and e juipage, and at lead
fuller them to pick up the crumbs that sal.
from your tables—Find out objects worth)
of your compafliou, and relieve them—the)
will, with love and gratitude to you, ac
cept your charitable donations, and bleO
their generous benefactors Remember
that you can do nothing which can so truly
rvul eminently ex.dt you; and the happiness
you will feel from benevolent actio.is,
will be a fufficient reward —For surely it is
Tile greatest p'eafure tnat the heart can
know,
To ease the widow's and the orphan's woe.
Let not the precarious pittance bei owed
onthelei idigentcreaiui e by tiiofe who c. n
hardly arford to give at ail, fitisfy you—
Be among the number, for your own fakes,
that condescend to enquire into the cir
cumstances of the poor ; not to intuit their
poverty, but to (helter them from distress,
and let them not fay ofyou, that they were
hungry, and ye gave them no meat, they
were thirsty, and ye*g«rve them no drink,
ft rangers and ye took them not in, naked,
& ye cloathed them not, lick and in prison,
and ye came not to them. But if, regard
leis of all humane confederations, you re
lufe to exercise the noblclt privilege of
your Itation in life, reflect what may hap
pen to yourselves, notwithstanding the
prejent security you seem to have of a lonjj
enjoyment of your wealth, for such is the
uncertain condition of things, that your
children, the dear pledges of your so .dell
affection, may one day (land shivering witli
cold and hunger at the doors of others,
begging tor a morsel of bread.
Oaob. 21. X. Y.
Extracts from French Papers.
Rochelle, f u h *8. The declaration ol
theßightiof Uan, & the Con itutional a£l,
has produced the expected effects j that i?
to fay, the Republican constitution has beer
received with all that enthusiastic ardoui
that characterizes men deserving of liberty.
After this very iutereltinj' proclamation, z
universal cry of Long live the Republic,
wis heard, arid the Marfeifles hymn
concluded the ceremony. It was observer!
in na-y neighbouring towns, that no with -
standing the cold indifference oi a numbei
of the inhabitants, t.;e gener dity appearet
perfectly fatisfied wit i the couflitution.
which wdl very probably be accepts, d ever)
wherewith eagernefsand joy.
Paris, July 24. The Revolutionary Tri
bunal pa fled sentence of death yefierda)
upo-i Joseph La Mazeliere, gentleman
31 years, a native of C iltel-Jaloux
department of Loire and Garonne ; he »va
found guilty of mrving migrated in Janu
ary and in July, 1792, and f having re
turned in April and November, of the/arfit
year. He was sentenced to fuffer death tlx
fame evening.
About a year ago a decree was proposed
declaring the banifliment of all re ration
priests to French Guyana, in South Ameri
ca. A mode of carrying this dtfign int<
„execution is now to be fixed upon. The
existing circumstances of things render ii
difficult. Breard, in the Convention, ha
given his opinion, that we ought not tc
fend such pests among our brtthren ol
Guyana.—Danton thinks, that as our port
are for the inoft part blocked up, the fleei
conveying these priests would be taken bv
the enemy, who would land the Deltilenti
al crew again on our own shores." Other?
proposed that the herd oi refra£tory pried
should be transported to the Pope's terri
tories. This measure appeared to Cairibon
and others as unavailing as the fending
them some time ago to the islands of Jersey
and Guernsey; where they were set on
Ihore priejlsi and have returned generals
oi armies in \ cntiee. A member obfcrv-
(/s>-:< j (ff g* if S'£ V
\/ J P fl A" | '** TS 3zl /
C>y : y'S'';'l' Y
By P. FREN EA U : (at No. 209, Market Street) Publijhcd Wednesdays and Saturdays, [Three Dollars per annum.']
Ed that if they were baniflied to Italy, the
maritime department of the Alps would be
invaded ; it was better to (end them to Al
giers to convert tiie Turks —Other propor
tions have been made refpe&ifsg the pritfh,
but nothing determined on.
August 4. The BritHh government, after
vaunting itfelr the prote&or of Liberty,
has at length become its moll dangerous
oppreifor. This boaded free government
now countenances every poflible crime,fuch
as corruption, alfaffination, conflagrati-on,
treachery, spies, and treason, in order to
destroy tiie liberties of France. The Na
tional Convention accnfes the Britilh go
vernment in the face of the Britllh people;
France denounces it to all Europe, to all
mankind—& hi (lory itfeif accuses it to the
world at large. This is thegovernment that
in .the war with I ndia, coiiiigued the In
dian nations to al! the horrors of f.imine.
i hey have tried the fdme game againd us,
and have seized upon the high ocean thole
articles ot fublidence which a neutral com
merce afford us.—This is the government,
which in Bengal (hut up the productions
of whole provinces in magazines and
iiore-hor.fes, (whofi? gates nothing could
pen but all potent goid). By this means
thonfands were defiroyed, that the im
portunate dilirefles of the remainder might
bring thele perilhing wretches under lilt
yoke of abject slavery.—This is the go
vernment, that,in the American war, hired
German soldiers, mere armed machines, to
be sent away like a purchase of beads, to
hed the blood of the free citizens of Ame
rica.— This is the government, that gave
1 premium t<-) the lavages for every scalp
of American freemen that they fiiould
bring in.—'i his is the government which
bought American officers in the fame man
ner as they .paid the German soldiers; they
purchased Arnold there as they did Du
mounief here. — This, finally, is the 'go
vernment which employs the treasures of
India to enslave Europe ; turns the blefl
ings of commerce to the dedriution of
liberty, and the advantages of social inter
courie to corrupt mankind, and spends the
taxes extorted from the people, in cutting
the throat?-of the French. Pride and mi
sery are the two gi-eat effects of the Eng
li(h commerce ; but such criminality can
not go long unpunished ; its reign mult
disappear before the rising luminary of
freedom. Kingly authority, by pafliuginto
the hands ol miniiters, is visibly progressing
t ° its own dedru&ion ; and the bloody war
they againd Liberty is fortunately
nothing more than the suicide of kings. It
is not strange that the Britilh are the Aloft
active and crafty of ail our enemies : they
are ever faithful to their own principles,
and endeavour to corrupt where they can
not conquer : a i'illy vision influences their
despotic monarchy (disguised under the
malkot liberty), and Pitt fondly hopes, anc>l
expects, soon to set an Englishman upon
the I rench throne. This young (lave of a
lunatic king ought to recoiled, that in cen
turies pad his coutrymen have at different
times invaded three fourths of the French
provinces, and tho' often attended by bril
liant victories, which feeified to prom (e
un(haken,everJading dominion, they never
failed, in the event, to be difgraceftilly dri
veil from our territories.*"
A number of papei s have accidentally been
di (covered, and transmitted to the Conven
tion. It is learnt from them that the En
giifli government has been extremely busy
in (ending fp.es, emiflaries and agent., tl.ro'
the Republic, efpecialjy into the sea port
towns, to the frontier towns, and into Pa
ris. It is alio dilcovered from them that
n indigated by the Englilh
minilter for burning our magazines and
public stores, by means of phosphoric
matches; blowing up our parks of artil
lery, &c. &c. 1 hole papers also fontain
innumerable plans of aflallination by the
hands of women and refra£tory prieds.
One fait is after taii-ad beyond contradic
tion, that the inhabitants of Lyons have
received from Pitt, by way of Geneva,
tour millions in ready cash, in order to
support their revolt. . The English have
been the principal indigators of this civil
war among us, it is supported by the En
glilh, and the expences of it are paid by
them. This is the honed ule their mini
der makes of those millions of pounds der
litig granted by his parliament, under the
name of secret service money. It is to be
lamented that neither Marseilles or Tou
lon have religiously flaut their gates againd
Bri illi gold, <or their ears againd danders
to the prejudice of the National Conven
tion. Intrigr.e has been employed there
100 fuccdVfuUy ; fa lie patriots, salaried a-
gents, and Grangers have corrupted the
public mind of fciiefe two cities,hitherto so
famous tor their love of liberty.
FOREIGN NEWS.
PARIS, August 4.
The Repreferitatives at the army of the
North, at present at Cambray, to the ar
my, dated July 25, 1793.
Republ } can Joldiers, our Brethren ana
friends,
THE National Convention have put
CuUine in a slate of arrest ; the fame pa
triots who have denounced La Fayette and
Dumonrier, have produced to the com
n ttee of fafety, papers and proofs con
cerning the cendutt of rhat general.
Remember, republicans, to what dan
gers the country has been expofcd, by 1101
uiving in time, taken prompt and vigorous
■"ie ifme^againll Dumonrier; confideron
>' the public latety ; t!ie lot aof man origin
•or. to iutereil you fa; ther than is confiit
nt U ith justice ; it will be done in regarc
0 Cuftine; if he is innocent his enemie;
vili be confounded ; if he is culpable
you will applaud the firmnefs *>f the Con
• ention, which cannot separate the fafet)
:>f the country from that of the army ; in ;
e; übiic, :he yreater the military tal< nts oi
• miirt, the more watchful we ought to be
>1 his conduct; it suspicion falls upon him,
e ought to juftify himfeJf; let us wait
:.ien, with patience for his juftification.
PROCLAMATION ofCoBouRG, en h>\
entry into the town of Conde.
THE city, fortrefs, and diitritf of Con
i!e having been obliged, by the brave troop c
u liich i have the honour to command, te
übmit to the emperor and king, I declare,
jy the present proclamation, that I take
JOiielHon of it in the name of his imperial
and royal majesty, and that I grant to a!!
the peaceable inhabitants of the conquered
country, ever y security and prdte£fion ; 1
declare further, that I will employ the au
thority with which I am inverted, in virtue
of the right of conquelt, in maintaining the
public order, and the security of pe Tons
and property; and wishing to take the
inoft efficacious measures, to obtain tholt
important objects, 1 declare also, that I ex
pect that all clubs or aiiemb!ies,, not autho
rized, whatever they may be, (hall dif
(olye immediately ; beiri£ in the firm reso
lution, to cause them to be difi'olved or re
prefild, by every means in my power, and
to cause to be baniftied ft verely, n ilitaii
ly, and exemplarily, all rhofe who hole
:!iofe afiemblies or clubs in their honfes.
thole w ho excite them, and those who afii't
at them; those \v ho, by word o 'action, infuli
or injure any person whatever, and in one
word, all those who, in any manner what
ever, diftnrb the public order or tranqui
lity.
Given at Head-Quarters, at Herin,
July 23, 1793.
Anfwerto the Proclamation of Cobourg, b>
Dubois Lebais, Representative of the
1 rench pt 6ple, c.attd July 24.
You f y. that y< u take poffrfllon of tin
city, loi treis. and oiftrift c. Conde, whici
have fubmitttd io the power of your cm
peror and g, by the brave troops which
> ou command.
This impolhi, e is, indeed, worthy of,,
(lave, and a vile supporter of defp.otifm ;
lor it is not your valour which has put yon
ni pofleflion of it, you owe it to the mon
iter" Dumuurier, who prevented the fupply
iirg it; ii you had had no other alliltanct
than your iToupag^your Satellites would
never have foiled that place ; you ma>
convince yourfelf of it, by the hunger
which those brave republicans who defend
ed it, have fuffered so long before they sub
mitted.
\ ou speak of maintaining the security of
property, and you violate the most essential
and sacred of all, by disallow ing clubs, and
subjugating even their thoughts; for men,
who know the price, and arc sensible of
theii own dignity, there exitts no property
without that ; thus the order and public
tranquility which you promise at that price,
are no more, properly fpeakiug, than the
dark and cruel repose of slavery : already
the unhappy inhabitants of Conde hear
around them the frightful found of chains,
which you are preparing for them; but
under their grievous burthens, they pre
serve freefpirits, and their unhappy breth
ren will net lor.g fnffer them to bear pati
ently the odious yoke which they at present
groan under.
Behold your blind satellites struck down
before the wails of Valenciennes; lee the
brave republicans of that citv dare the
thunder, and despise innumerable hords of
brigands, who come from ali parts of
Lie.and of iiaves, to conquer them ; you
wi.l soon learn from them, what depend
e./ce you can have on yonr courage, and
what yon ought to expect, frbm the invin
c.ble courage-os freemen; dare to advance
niruher in this land of liberty, and your
uelciuaion is certain; an indignant peo
ple will rue together, crush by their
veight alone yv,ur whole army offlwes.
n'"ki la£e ' asla "''»l as unextin
guilhable, purge the land of tyrants, ard all
tlicir yile supporters ; notwithflajiding
your delpicable commands, the French na
tion Wl.l preserve their liberies, and give
1 whole world an example of what u
people call do, who are resolved to be free,
(-.lory Gobourg, 111 your conquest, which
he iTft C ° 1 a S r '" n of powder, nor
treason p3r . t,cle ot blood » owe it to
The on I y °a afcrlbe hto valour:
band nf V C 'u ?" e t ' vvbkh >' nu and >' our
own I h ' li3Ve a ri * ht tu "II your
its end, gr h VC . J eVery day y° u fathonz
Its depth; each day you offer up victims
Who are devoured by it, and in propS
as you advance upon the Fiench territory,
you approach it. Tremble! a:;d be convin
tec., that such will be tne end of fan
quinary and impotent efforts.
. ♦ .
- ORK, O&ober 15.
. New (papers Irom Paris of the begin
mug ot Aug 11ft, fay, That France by a sole
decree, has ordered seventeen hundred
millions of Royal Ailignarsto be deflroyed.-
a Ins c.eed, which has been celebrated I y
all the French people, strikes with numb
neu cue combined powers, by the profpeft
Lie re is of tne immense finances of the
New Republic; the motive of this decree
has been the difeover> os-he conspiracy in
which Put directed all the interior
noeuv res of the nation ; his prcjefts-, his
correfpondeuce, and the names of the most
>art ol his agents have been discovered bv
etters intercepted at Lisle, and in many /f
the sea port towns--Alio, by declarator*
of diaries chief ot the rioters or rebel* an
Lozere. It has been discovered that one
hundred and twenty millions oflivres tl a^-
this minilier had voted for his private and
ieciet expences, and the enormous sumS
he had borrowed, ierved only to encreafe
the royal affignats, and that he made use of
these allignats to pay the rebels at la Vendee
to (pread animosity in the French armies'
and to excite civil war at Calvados,
Bourdeaux, at Lyons, and iMarfeilles Ic
lias been discovered, that England had in
many French towns, agents, (as well a in
the country) who were to set on fire the'
ltores and provihons of the armv I, e
papers found, ft ate, at the sam- tine tie
means easy & inevitable ro burn them w ■ h
phosphoric matches, these words were no
ticed, " You will endeavor that i; reTai
ijnations be made with prudence—Pi - \
dilguifed, and women, are the most t>rn\ cr
pei sons for this bulinefs." The K;<uii
newspapers have not mentioned tJifi
covery : O ! ye Americans ! these are the
men whose agents have ft ill influence hi
your territories J
i he following are he decrees proposed
by Cham ban and Barriere ; and by which
the National Convention, always just a id
firm, has fruftrated the infamous' projects
of the enemies to liberty :
ill. TJie royal allignats Mbnve too livres
shall no longer have a fore.a course lor
caffi; they fiiall be received as payment
for contributions to the national fund, for
He rii.irJa.grrow tj} for what
s owed to the nation. " j
% m g • —^
v e 100 Jivrcs fl ail fcjj
exchanged lor Republican affignats. O 1 til
ill of January, 1794, there flialJ no longed
ex lit royal affignats. b
2. I here shall be formed between Paris
and the northern army, a camp of 300,c00
iTrif" the f arrifoil Mayence lliall ppft
hr Vendee. The population, ihe
houses, the harvelt of the rebellious de
partments shall be destroyed. The wo
r^ e^ dren ' f' ,d shall
•u u r ,nt ? the interior, where they
will be ftipported and treated with huma'
nity. The property of the rebels f! all be
coifiifcated, and a distribution made to in
demnify the faithful inhabitants who /hall
have fuffered loss in theirproperties.
3. All strangers of foreign powers at
war with the Republic, shall be ftopt, and
tneir papers sealed. Thegates or Paris
iivali ue Ihut, and the guards augmented iricur fca ports and public places. The Con
venrio;! confirms the nominaton of Billaud
tie V.irenncs, and of f e 'n t to Ca
Jais, to ftr>p the English conspirators-; the
Convention denounces to tlie world, and
to the t.nglilh themselves, the atrocious aud
cuwardly corrtluft of tlie Britilh govern
ment. Ye Americans! Free and allied
with the French,'tis to you irt particular
tint this declaration isa'ddrefled ; bale ca-
InlDni ttors fqi&nder their.money, to dil
hoi or and olackcn the charatter of this
great nation ; rreverihelcfs, you have ob
fei ved on this important-futjeft, a lilence
which at once betrays a gui.ty conscience
and the lhame of being thought an actum
plice.
PHILADELPHIA.
Wednesday, October 23.
The malignant difurder that has so lone
raged in tliis city, is visibly moderating
frx'm day to day, and, where it exifl>, has
affnmed a nrikl appearance. The death;
at the liofpital have greatly decreased,
and the number of convalefcems is be
coming numerous. With a continuance
or coo. weather there is every reason tc
presume, that the liclcnefs -will wholly dis
appear in a few days, and the intercourfc
between this and other cities, by stages.
&1, be reltored. People are now daily
returning to their habitations—and weheai
of none having taken any infeaion
w2r Tue £ lay ' the 8;l1 October, SA
MUEL ADAMS, Esquire, was declared
Governor and Commander in
Chief of the llate of Maffichufett';—fuccef
lor to the patriotic HANCOCK, deceased.
" Our country's saviour, and Columbia''
pride.
The orphan's father and the widow's friend
Mayluture Hancocks Maff.chufetii'
guide-;
tj Ancock I—Thv name alone with time
flidll end I l '
On the 1 of August last, happened the
mod terrible hurricane at the Danifhifland
of Sr. Thomas, in the Weft-Indies, that
has been experienced lince the island was
nrft fettled Great numbers of American,
and other veflels, were loft in the harbour'
and property to a vatt amount: many of
the neighbouring islands luffered in an
equal degree.
Letters from the aflert,
that the Spanilh pi ivateers take all Ameri -
can veflels they fall in with, and carry
them into Cuba or St. Domingo, puttin"
the crew? in irons, and treating them al
most as pirates.
A correspondent enquires—" Is it not
time that the intercourse be opened be
tween this city and neighbouring states ?
—Under proper precautions, i t is thought,
by Kiany, the stages might be again fei
a going ; and that travellers might proceed
oh their bulinefs, as heretofore."
" It is hoped, such inhabitants of thi:
city a< have been for several weeks remov
ed into the country, will not crowd in to<
suddenly to the city,upon afnppofition thai
all danger is over. It would beprudent u
A-vait a fall of rain, and a subsequent hare
froft or tivo, before re-entering theii
Jloufes, particularly if fitnated in narrow
alley;-, or ill-ventilated parts of the city.'
A very pompous account is given iii :
Londoj paper of July 17th, of the Pre
cieufe, a i rench 36 gu:-i frigate, being ta
,n °y the Englilh sloop of war Proserpine
ot 28 guns, a ter an action of two hours.—
They promifc the particulars of an aftior
that never took place. [Tlie Precieuft
rehtted in this port, and is now failed on ;
cru'fe troui New-York, with the Jupitei
and other French ships.]
Letters from Hamburg, of July 26. men
tion that a large Ruffian fleet had just ar
rived before Copenhagen, to oblige tlie
Danes to join in the war againrt France
This fleet, it was thought, would be dan.
gerous to American veflels that had taker
in cargoes of grain for France.
It is with the mod sincere (atisfaftior
we observe many {lores opening in this cit\
that have been long (hut; many familie;
returned, that have been long sbfent: anc
the wharves, and Water-Street,once more
enlivened.in Oune degree, by the occupati
ons of incluftry, and commercial inter
course. rhe George Barclay, captain Col
let, from London, is come up from Chef
ter. and, cargo. ffun y Q .
■giyftflw below, it is said, are following
K example.
P' Should momentary clouds, with envi
' v,ousi"ade,
ißlot the ,;ay scene, and bid its colour:
fade,
As the next hour a gleam of joy supplies,
Ssvift o'er the mind the pafling sun-shine
files ;
No more the tear ef transient forrou
flows,
Ceas'd are the widow's griefs, the or
phan's woes."
Further accounts from Europe mention
that the Ruffians have again been infringing
®u the Turkiih territories, and in particu
lar the town ot Ramineck. This, it wa
thought, would prevent the reception ol
the Rafiian minilter at Constantinople. M
Defcourches, the French envoy, had ar-
rived there and was well received by the
JJivan.— The Englifli had taken 8000 Hef
."s '"to their pay; they were to join
prince CobourgVi army about the .29111 of
Jury.— Die republic of Venice had given
ortence to the combined powers bv
• ckuowledging the French Republic and
accepting their Envoy—The ambaflbdor
Jt the court of Vienna, the Spanish am
>aflador, and almost half the nnnifters had
trc Venice on the fame account.—Citizen
-Jiiys, Llie French Charge des affaires to the
egeiicy ol I ripoli had been received with
' e highelt honours by the Pacha. He or
dered the Republican flag to be fainted
vith 2 1 cannon, and other marks of diftinc
.ion that were never before Ihown to the
nolt favoured nation.
A house ol ill fame was a few days ago
>roke up in New-York, by the populace,
i writer in one of the papers of that city
"ery jultly queries, Whether the ptinifh
iiient of offer,tk'rs, inhabiting these houles,
should not be leit to the city niagiftrates
rather than to an indiscriminate collection
of people, who rarely ast from motives ol
rationality, or love of social order.
A company of money coiners have been
ately deteclcd at Brockfield and Spencer,
towns in the state of Mafl'achufetts ; one
Jf the Artilts acknowledged he had palled
:hree hundred dollars. The dollars are
aid to be well executed ; some were of
pewter only, and others covered with a
• hin plate of silver.
1 hree pei foils are to be hanged in New
-1 ork ill November, one for forging a deed
md two others for .puffing forged deeds'
snowing them to be forged.
Seme persons imagine that the fate of
f ranee depends upon Conde, Mentz, Va
enciennes, Lille, or Dunkirk: So in this
-ountry during thelafe war, when Boston,
Pimadelphia, New-York, or CharlePon
'* ere 111 the hands °f the British,"there were
lot wanting thufe who continually were
:rying out, A I is loll!— There is a vast
ufterence between taking towns and con
tiering countries. Every town taken by
he combined army weakens its force, and
ts very conquests, if continued, will be
:°me thecaufeof its difiohition.
Letters from Fiance mention thntyoune
uOll is capet (alias Louis 17th) wa by order
j| the National Convention bound appren
ice to a Cobler 011 the 10th of Augtift lalt.
Five criminal prisoners, in the new jail
>f this city, one day last week, blackened
heir tongues, and other ways so well conn
erfeited the common symptoms "of -the
mellow fever, that, forfear ofinfefting the
)rifoil, they were conveyed, seemingly in
i low slate, to the hospital 011 Bu(h-Hill.
neie, they took the firft opportunity to
nake their escape, not however without
lrft robbing the nurses of a considerable
um of money. One of these persons, we
ire to>d, is since retaken, and brought back
o Sail.
Capt. Knight, lately arrived at Salem
rom Port-au-Prince, on the 9th of Sep
tember, fell in with the Britilh frigate Al
ligator, of 32 guns, commanded by Capt.
Rowley : the later boarded him, ex imined
(lis papers, and returned on board the fri
gate, telling Capt. Kn.ght he Ihould receive
ifignal when he might depart.- when the
rign.il was given, the muJic oil board the
frigate immediately (truck up Yankee Dro
ne— a favourite tune with the britilh, ever
'■nee their glorious march to Lexington, in
T 775-— [N. B. It ought to be repeated,
once 111 a while, that the British troops
when they marched out of Bolton for Lex
ington, played the above tune, in derision
of the Americans ; and that on their retreat
L he latter followed them back with the
fame merry tune- B.irgoyne and Corn
walhs also marched to the tune of Yankee
Doodle, at Saratoga and Yorktown.j
C. ipt. Knight, with true Yankee humour,
ordered his black eook,to re-echo the tune
oil his violin.
Extract of a letter from Hartford.
We have been highly favoured here
(thro' mercy) in having generally efcapec
the contagiousPliiladelphiafever, conlider
ing the many travellers from that city thai
were daily passing through from thence,
and even sojourning here during the month;
of Augult and September. It is with mucli
pleasure I can allure you that only three
persons in this city are certainly known tc
be down with the so much dreaded yellow
fever, viz.. MelTrs. Hudson and Goodwin,
Editors of :!i e Connecticut Coi_, ant, and a
correspondent of theirs. Who dwelleth a
few doors distant. All three of these poor
gentlemen took the infection from a cer
tain southern newspaper, which th?y hap
pened to peep into without previously fu
migating their nostrils with hot vinegar ant
taking a dram of llinkabus. They are fre
quently delirious, and it is remarkable,
that in the paroxysms of the fever thej
yelp exactly like puppies ; often, in theii
frenzy, /napping at the Cazetce that Wa;
the innocent cause of their calamity. Thai
their teeth may speedily be beaten intc
pruning-hooks and plough-shares, is the
ti icere Willi of yours, with sincere refpeft,'
&c.
Maryland papers relate, " that a voice
has been heard in the streets of Philadel
phia, warning the inhabitants to prepare
• or their doom, as written in the .book >of
the prophet Exekiel, chap. 27th." They
farther assert, " that two angels have been
leen, that converted with the Watch of thib
city at midnight, on the fubjeft which the
r I O^ e .. v ° lc f ' previously proclaimed. "
Lit is high time that men were afhauied of
propagating filch lilly falfehoods as thefej
without foundation in nature or reason.l
i\?- a S enE^ elrian arrived at Baltimore in
a (hip from Fayal, we learn, that Fayal,
as well as Madeira, and all the Azores or
Weltern Isles, were apprehensive of an
approaching famine— their crops of grain
having nearly all failed this season—That
in a few days after their arrival at the said
place, (about the Bth of August), the eo
vernor, chief judge, and senate, had called
a meeting of the inhabitants, for the pur
pose of adopting some plan to guard againfl
e expected calamity, by procuring pro
vihons from Portugal or America, but that
through party diviiions, they had come to
no resolution on the fubjeft—that there
was not a bufliel r>f wheat or corn, nor a
barrel of flour for sale in the whole island.
I hat the principal part of thepeople there,
lived on garden roots, fruit, and fifh, hav
ing no bread to eat—that several cargoes
Of grain or flour would barely afford them
a temporary relief in any one of the said
Fa > al being in want of 60,000
bulhelsfor its consumption alone ; Tercera
and Michael's had undergone an equal scar
city of crops with the former island ; that
veneh going to Europe this fall, would do
we I to flop there or at Madeira, as they
will have an opportunity of making sales
to great advantage.
The gentleman who gave the above in
formation, further adds, that it is a fre-
L ' uel ' t P ra &'ce :n the above mentioned
ifiands, to take advantage of ftran-rers in
calculating accounts in their currency—
and the exchange of specie or sterling mo
ney ; which he thinks theconfuls of diffe
rent nations, who reside in them, ought to
make known 011 the arrival of every vessel
here belonging to the coumry or nation
whom they represent.
Extract of a letter from Shelburne, to a
gentleman in Norfolk, dated Sept. 8.
"Admiral .King, with three fail of the
line and three frigates, is arrived at New
foundland, and is daily expected at Hali
fax, at which place we imagine part of ad
miral Gardner's fleet now is, though we
have not heard of them thir fortnight past."
Some scattering intelligence appears in
the New Providence papers,pnrpoi ting that
an hnglilh fleet from Jamaica under Com
modore Ford, had failed with troops on
aoard, on Sept. Bth, to attack Port Jere
mie, in French Hifpaniola-that the Eng
lilh colours were flying at Nichols Mole,
itc. [From such important intelligence
coming thro'no ether than the New Pro
vidence channel, it may, after such an in
■erva' time, be supposed somewhat
lotibcful.]
From the London Morning Chronicle 0)
Siturday, July 27, 1793.
OnThurfday evening was decided before
judge Buller, at his house in Lincoln's. Inn
fields, a cafe of the utmolf importance to
the rights of neutral powers. Collin M'-
Kellan and James Fergufon, both Anuri
cans, and who were imprelled 011 the jßth
;>f last month, were brought before the
above mentioned judge, by virtue of a writ
of habeas corpus, which was issued on
the 21ft ofjunelafl, returnable immedi
ately, for the purpose of obtaining their
tlifiharge ; when lieutenant Haworth, the
commander of the Enterpriz.', reru ned
that those men were natural bom fubjefts
as the king of Great Biitain, and there
'ore not exempt from beingimprefltd into
11s service. This return was fnpporied
•>y the attorney.general and Mr. Baldwin,
□11 the part of the crown, and opposed by
Mr. Merryatt, on the part of the men, whe
contended, that altlio' the men were born
fubjefts of the king of Great Britain, yet
by virtue of the declaration of indepen
dence in 7776, and the solemn recognition
and ratification of that declaration bj
treaty, and by ast of parliament in 178;,
these men, as well as all other citizens ol
the United States of America, were be
come foreigners, and not liable to be im
prtffea into his majefly's service. Tin
judge however, declared, that he could
take cognizance of nothing but there
turn, and therefore was bound to remand
them. It is a circumstance well worth)
the attention of the public, that in order
to ol.tain the writs of habeas corpus, tc
oring these men up, affidavits of their being
Americans had been made, but the return;
to the writs are not upon oath, and the
affidavits are not permitted to be read up
on the hearing, so that falfe returns may be
made and the judge cannot permit an affi
dav t to be read, which would prove the
return (which is not upon oath) to be
falfe. As the men have found that they
mult submit, a memorial of their cafe,
verified With affidavits, will be immediate
ly tranfmited to the President of the Uni
ted States, that proper measures may be
taken to obtain redress.
In several American newfpaperi, menti
on has been made of one captain Walker,
a pirate spoken with at sea, and eruifing
under French Republican colours—The;
public are delired to take notice that no
such vessel or captain has received a com-
million from the.executive of the Frencb
Republic.—All coinmiffions granted to
rrench privateers have been accompanied
with the Itrongeft inftruaions 10 the cap
tains to conduct themselves like republic
ans, men ol honour, soldiers of Liberty
friends and allies of the Americans.
On the ijth of Oaober instant, died in
the liofpital at Bush-Hill, near which he
was interred in a public burial ground,
rity Storch, printer, of this
Gibraltar, Aug. 3. The English at pre
sent areott Toulon, and are to continue
there till theSp«ni(], fleet (who are cone
nto water) join them. The Berwick
parted from the fleet on the 21ft ult. off
I oulon in a gale of wind, and arrived here
fCuerday, having sprung her bowsprit, fore
ind mizen mads, and maincrofs trees. The
Leda frigate has been roughly handled by
hree French frigates : the flluftrious. was
II company, and it is said an enquiry is to
Je , ma^-"Uothecondua of her captain for
lot a flirting. We have had no late ac
:ounts from England, but expea from
• hence every hour, the Montague. The
French have,6 fa,l of the line in Toulon,
■nd the Spaniards are in daily expectation
ot the surrender of piedmont.
Aux-Caye,, Sept. 4. Capt. Young, arri
>ed at Neivburyport from Aux-Cayes, in
orms, that three days before he left that
place, the Mulattoe» role upon the Whites
Hid »ade themselves masters of the town,
4 ith little or no opposition.
Port -art-Prince, Sept. 6. This place
-ontmues to become more aiid more
ivretched —the government of the Whites
a at an end—and those of property who
-emam here, are going off with it, as fall
's they can, apprehending that the Negroes
>vill fliortly possess what remains. There
s 110 sale for American produce ; the
own is glutted with flour, particularly.—
lie conimiflary Polverel has been arrived
it Port-au Prince from the Cape some
Jays. His bulinefs is to make regulations
or the colony. His fyftom is said to be,
:o aboliih slavery among the B1 icks. Among;
other arrangements, he is about pnblifhine
a decree, that all Negroes, who Ihall join
nuliil arms, shall be made free after a
-ertain term offervice.
About the middle of Augult. a body of
Spaniards attacked the French fettlemerts
Jack of Gonaive, but were repulsed with
$reat (laughter.
Salem Oft. ,5. Capt. Odell arrived here
alt week from Guadaloupe. While he
•vas there, the Negroes on the plantations
oie and embodied, and on the 25th of
marched against the town of St.
r~ but the inhabitants went out and
marked thein, beat them off, and killed a
lumber. It was said that about 300 had
Keen dellroyed at different times—among
lie number taken prisoners, was a Priest
uho iu the market place had his brains
3 'own out by four boys, with each a pistol,
utter which one of them cut off his head
»ith a hanger. Several of the more aaive
Negroes had been taken rding from plaec
:o place, calling upon the (Lives where
■hey meant to rile, for now w as their time:
uch wei e treated with no mercy—but
■ iie inhabitants fell upon thein with their
Jioad fuords, and rut them to pieces
leaving their mangled carcafesfor the dogs.
The inhabitants of the plantations were
.et ing in couHernation to the towns tor
fafety.
Baltimore, Oft. 18. This afternoon ar
rived here, theFreneh frigate. La Citoy
r,N.ve Francaise, mounting 36 guns;
ail her coming to anchor she fired a salute
3f 15 guns in honour of the fifteen Ameri
:an States. Dnring her cruise off this coast,
(he took f prizes, one of which she ha*
wrought in with her to this port.
On Saturday; the s th inft. a terrible fire
Droke out at Lanfingburgh, in the State of
Vew-York : 14 buildings were destroyed,
ind other considerable damage done.
Providence, OR. 12. Saturday last arri
ved the (hip Providence, capt. James
Munro, in 35 days from Cape-Francois,
ind brought about jo French passengers,
nen, women and children. On the 29th
if August, off Heneague, he was brought
:o and boarded by the privateer schooner
Hornet, capt. Solomon Steele, of Bermu
-la, who treated capt. Munro and his paf
engers with great politeness, taking from
-he latter only 44 a few Negroes.''
On Thursday last, the General Assembly
3f Vermont convened at Wimlfor for the
anniversary eleaion. In the morning was
Jifplayed a variety of military manoeuvres,
Jiid in the afternoon an ingenious and ele
gant difconrfe was delivered by the Rev.
Mr. Shuttleworth. Upon examining the
votes, it appeared that, by a majority of
212, his Excellency "THOMAS CHIT
TENDEN, F.fq. was eleaed Governor
and his Hon. Peter Olcott, Esq. Lieu'-
tenaiit Governor for the enfuiug year,
which was announced with a dilcharge of
15 guns. In the evening a splendid ball,
graced by a molt brilliant circle of the fair
of that metropolis, was givei; by the gen
tlemen of that town.