fIR •■■ ■ v'J^v''/■lf yBH# • OH. ■ ffl| jffc.. dflL »
- • Hp <£■ j| B 1M m <» IB' W% £ fly w r y ,: , ,«^D
By P. FRENE AU: (»t No. 209/ Market Street) PuMi/ked VTtouitni'tt and Saturday*, [Thau Doll All per annum.]
Numb. 78 of Vol. ll.]
OkATioX;
, By Ckimm BaACKumuDot, on tie CeU
brat,on of tht Annvwrfary of InJeptn
.* denct, l;Pitt(b«rg, July 4. J
°' -?he <la ' r introduce"
* the of th« principle that- gave it
hirth : Was it the wifdoni of the king of G.
Britain who saw the growing greatncf
of the province 1, that they now o'
•ge to ail for themfelvet. and bade them
be independent ? No-*The wifdo n »»t the
parliament of Great Britain,'that feeiny
The inconvenience or impofflbility of our
being represented in the legislature, .and
(anlible of the 11 nreafo riablenefs of beini
bound by law* without being represented.
saw the expediency of a reparation from
them, and said tow. Be independent and
become an allied power I No—lfothllii
of all this. The king, and jparliament ol
Great Britain, were of opinion that with
out representation, we were boil id by
their law*, and tSoiigh deTcendantt of their
isle. had no right to freedom in 4 great
sorest. • ■ •
Whence then our independence ? Il
was the offspring of the underrtanding and
the virtue of the people of Adierica them
selves. The eloquent advised, the bravt
i'eught ; and we fircceeded. The day on
which we aflumed our rights became a fef
tival ; and every future yeat (hall remem
ber it with t.'dent exertion.
The eelebrati<» 1 of the day inrrodnces
the ide-i of the effictofit beyond rhe fj»here
of thefi ftite*. The light kindled here
bai been refl?iJ;d tdßritain, and a reform
in the repre.e"tation of tiie CubidO'K is
expered. The lighi kimlied here ha
been relied to France, and a new order
of things his arift n. Shall,, we blame r'te
inte.nperature of the exer;|»-is ? Was
there ever •tacliuliifm without intemper
ance ? an<t was there / ever a preat
witauir enctiH'iafm ? Thy principles, d !
Liberty, are not violent or .cruvl.: but in
of thjr effort* against tyrajj-
Uy, is '.ulut alwiyaprvHMe to keep svirWn
the limit of th«- vengeance antply to de
fence. Do w** acenfe the air,' or, tiie b if
tile of the mouriraih, when the rock is
b'Jrft and trie \owti engnlphed ? The *ir cf
ifielf is mild, and fjarcely Waft* a feather
from it« place: But retrained and impii •
foned/tlie yielding and placid element
comes indignant. j*nd te*rs the globe be
fore it. i3p we nccufe the, hurricane,
when the mariner i»Aoffed with the te;n
pe'.t, and is an incidental fufferer in the
storm ? The . ivituralift dors net. . He
tell* you that the equilibrium of the atmos
phere has been disturbed, and if man has
fhffered more than the demerit of his tranf.
jrre!fion% it isia a ftrnggte of nature to re
store herfiflf. . • ... •
Is it the dutf of these (fates to affilt
France ? That we are bound by treaty,
and how far, I will not fay ; because it is
not necessary. We are bound by a higher
principle, if our a Alliance could avail j the
great law of humanity. ...
We might, it is trurf, alledge theft'pula
tlona of a treaty, and the guarantee of htr
fffejiont to Frmnct. But all the world
would, know, and we o'ught to avow it,
that it is the cause of republicanism whith
would Induce onr efforts. The tyrant of
Great Britain alledged the ftipnlation* of a
treaty relative to the opening of the Scheldt
and wfited'for no requisition 011 the part
of Holland to observe the guarantee. But
all the world knew, and he might have
avowed it, that it was not th/ opening of
the Scheldt, but the attack upon monarchy
that ~ prompted his interposition. Shall
kings combine, and shall republic* not
unite ? We have united. The heart of
America feels the cause of France; <he
takes a part in all her council*; approves
her wisdom ; blameeher excefles ; (lie i.
moved, impelled, elevated and depreflld,
with all the changes of her good and ban
fortune ; Ihe feels the fame fury in her
veim ; (he \% tofled and Oiaken with all the
' variety of hopes and fears, attendee her
situation : Why not? Can wc beindiffer
ent ? I« notour f.'te Interlaced with hers .
Tor, O France !if thy republic perilh,
• where is the honour due to ours From
whom relpeil to our Hajt up'iir the* f as?
Nbt from France reflorecl to a monarch,
•nd indignant at thefc very feeling* which
are now our glory : Not frdm the deTpots
that at-e against her : these will easily re
called that the cause of their evils took
their rife here. -
Can we alfilt France by arming in her
fav«r i I will 110 c fay that wc can. But
SATU RD A Y, 1 July 27, 1793.
could we, and Oiodd ,FU»te fa*. United
States, your neutrality is udt'Aifficlentj we
expett the jun&ion ..of Jour arms with
yqur heroes on the (bit, and your
privateer*, on the ocean, to distress the foe;
wlu» ii there Would not fay, It (hall be so i
you (haLPbave them.; our citizens ,(hall
arm » .they (hall attack ; our 04k* (hail de
fcenfiirom the mountain* ; our.VeTfts bf
launched upon the llream, and' the voice ol
our war, however weak,' (hall be - heifi
#i{h yourtl
If we mftMvm ftiould judge that 0111
Irmj France, ev«n though th<
generous republic required it not, yet win
would belitate to interfere.'nor only at th«
rilk oi"property, bur life ;tfell F.islttllu
fion, da I Fra'ice fay ; Vly daugh
ter America ! I. know the dutifulpefa ol
thy towards in* ; ami that thou ari
disposed to (hew it by ta'tlng pari ,j;i till'
war. . But I wilh thee not to provoke ho-
Hilitiet for my fake. If Ip. riih, I pe; iih ■,
>■1 let not a mother draw in a h plefi
•hlld tol'olfer with herf£:f. Is it illn'ion ;
jr do 1 hear America reply? I do, and il
is iu the language «>( the .MoaUltefi Ruth,
:o her upother in law. the Jewish Naoiqi.
•' Intreat me not to leave thee, or return
From foiUwing thee } for whither, thou
joell, 1 will go j and where thr>u lodged,
1 will lodge ; thy people ihall be my peo
ple, and, thy God, mv (rod ; where ti|op
died, I w.ll die, aid there will 1 be burir
fd. Gi ddofo to me, ind more alio, if
mplu but tie .tli (h tli ( >art th'eeand ma."
But whether > e idi Uir not) thy taufe,
0 ! France, ,\t il lv .V uinpSant. Did tne
.'nthn<iafm of a (mail Kooian people, repel
;hcir invaders. un:i! Koine became the
M-oteetreftof o.itions ' Did the enthusiasm
it a feiv Greeks,n pel the millions of Alia,
utd afterwards overrun her kingdoms ?
>.d the enthusiasm of the Saracena.in a
vw vears spread to Spain on the one hand,
•iid th. Indus, on the other ? Did the en-
V„liafm ot a few mad Crusaders, burd
ij-on the Saracen, aid rftabliih the king
lorn °t Jerinal-m m the cpnter of hU em
sire Ar>d ihall the enthuliafm of a brave
jeoplw rtlore nnmeroqs than the early Ro
-IUO republic; t/ie Grceki under Aiexaq
ler, tfic Sa< arena of Arabia, or the Crufa
lers oi turope, btfebdued by all that are
<£ainft them ? The weight will but con-
Jenfi refitwnce, and a> the materials of
rx.ploho.llll theordonanie acquire a spring
>y >-oiili'ieineilt, so in proportion to the at
.ackoi thi people, will their voice be ter
'«b.<*. their (slow irrefutable. . ■,
franc* will be independent also, and ce
ebrate her anniversaries ; and in doing so
»ill recollect that our independence had
ireceded and made the example.
The annivt-rfary ,of the independence of
America will be a great ejiocha ot-Liberty
the w.prld. Proceed we then
:o celebrate the day ; advance to the fef
:ive board ; pour out libations to fenti
mentt of liberty .and let the loud mouth
rd artillery be heard on the hill 1
From the feosToN Mf.rcukt, of July 16
T» the Citizens of tht Commonwealth of
, MaiflTachufctw.
*1 « . ..
-pHE extraordinary cirrumdaaee which
A has given occation for the proclamati'
»n from the Ettcutiv* of this /re#, /«w
---rtig", and Independent Common
mtl AtTH, is troly alarming to every iadi
ridual citizen, whose liberty and interefl
ire deeply involved in the important bufi
lefs of it." The p«wer which the federal
government has, to call into their courtsa
Znmmohviealth or • (late, to aafwer to the
lem <nd of foreigner (perhaps a tory) was
r"nvtrfully oppefei in the Convention of
ilils and other commonwealths and States
in the Union. It was debated la our Con
tention with great drength and propriety,
:bat the power »nce given, would not.only
rndknger the Sovereignty of the Com-
MpNwEALTtt r but would open a door
for the tor ler and refugee! to sue for edates
which were forfeited to, and juiUy confif
cated by, their country from which they
lia'd deserted in an hour of didrefs. The
manner in which individuals managed with
some of the toriel (their friends) edatet,
prevented government frain making an
impartial confiscation. 'It waa/dieln the
-xtrrme, for the Sttftei la alienate ayirwer
and retain only the hope of it* never being
exercised ; a power the innre dangerous
win n alienated, a* we new Jie,that it leads
iq a .direH cfn/'ohdatioti of the government!
of the Union into one, to become iuviA'able,
iaJ iejhutlivt tu the Hbtrtiet
ofUl»lT<* AMEHicA.Thii poVer in th«
federal government, would not have beer
contented to by this commonwealth, bui
for Rttfua King, Kfq. who " pledged hi]
bonoar," fat the Stite Convention, " fhat
the Convention at Ph'il-delphia nevefr dif
tovere'd a cfityiofition toiirfringe on the go
vernment of an individual rtate, and thai
in hit opfniittWo Congress oti earth wcutd
dare to invade the sovereignty or this.
CDMMOIfVtfEALTH." On tlie <tre>gth of
the geritiemfcn'a opinion, the article in the
Comtitutiou was aiil-ntcd to but by a fntaii
m.ijorify v Attempt* have been fmremarit
by Congrefi fa delkrojr the joveicigr.ty of
the States ; and we now fee this gentle
niun't. a tier.ion completely negatived, b>
the commonwealth's being ftiiiiiiioued.Autl
the governor and attorney general taken
by.tlii marjhal to appear and answer to
ihe demand of a tory in the federal court
:o bj holder! at Philadelphia, 300 nines dif
tjnt from' where tfte. prectpt uai served,
»nd Uijder the penalty of 400 dollar*. Ci
tizens, 1 ou('e ( Let us before the general
swart together, call town ir-eeting*
aid county conventions c this tfufineft, to
take the fenfeofthe people on a queiti
on as Hj with the fate of our inter eft and
Hiertits at any one that has agitated the
public mind lince the pcace wirh Britain.
I am fully convinced of a combination ex
iting among us to destroy the J over eighty
the Commonwealth, and with it the li
berties of the people. Let the freemen
of MafTachafetts but only hear, much more
r ee, that the arm of a tyrannical powlr it
upl'ffed to Jbrikt a blow ai their liberties :
and the hated Monster, whether, it be
thfe mandate of a federal court, a funtlirg
'yjtem, or any other demon *f defpotijm,
Ihallvani/h before their breath, and hide
its deteflable head iu the cave of oblivion.
The people of the United States of Arae.
ricst, fought, bled, and conquered to enjoy
IOVKRIidN liHxTTj our A ate and
national government exilt. only by the
v<*te offreawilm, and whenever our ftr
vantt u/urpan authority, to adminiltcr one
»r the other, in a tone iijpleafmganA con
trary to the true principles,, in sere II and
'eelings of the people, the fame original
bower that nlade, can,'and moll afliirediy
will, unmake them. The people will
maintain their liberties, fcy the ptaceab'e,
<acred and (Lmme right of election
to the end of time, unlet* diilurbed and
molerted in the quiet exercise of this
right, which they will ever wateh, by the
during projects of ambitious mmi who
would enjlave their country t> ennch thtm
(etves} and, when the rigtn of election and
fovereigvty of t/te commonwealth lhall be
endangered, let u* dtaw our Jwords like
free citizen foldiert, and swear, that we
will '-proteit and hand down the liberties
of our country, that we bravely won iu the
field, to our pdlterity unimpaired) or die
in the attempt." , -
- MARCUS.
v Salem, July 13,1793-
French Refugees.
OflE finncfred and flfty vtflels have
come tip the Chefapckn bay, with up
wards as twelve hnndred patten
gers, men, women and children* on board,
nwiny of whom have escaped by fwimmfng
from fir a and sword, naked and in want of
every thiny. Seme French patriots and a
number or Mary lander* have already made
up a considerable sum for their relief; ho
doubt the generosity of the Philadtlphlune
and of the inhabitant* of every city on the
continent will prompt.them to follow the
example. Among these unfortunate peb
ple are m number of French patriotic cop
tains who have been obliged to fly and a
ba'ndon their veflel* and property { num
ber* of old men and heads of familiet.once
wealv y but now redded to misery and
want. Some among them may havi by
their drawn the misfortunes theyf/el
on theif 6wn heads, but they are ast unfor
tunate, aqd pity istht tmly fentitnenf that
breaking situation con inf^r*.
Thit fleet has been convoyed by "5
ty four*, 4 fdrty gnn frigates, a 0/ thirty
fix, a twenty fbur gun cutter*, and two ar
med brig*.
From what we have been able to learn.
Gen. Galbo it the canfe of this dreadful ca
taffcrophc; he is on board the Jupiter. The
following detail of thi* affair i* colic-fled
from several persons, .arid we b«a«ve it
come*n<ar the ti'tnh.,
Upon the arrival of the national com
miffioncr*, Galbo, who wn apj*»;Bt»d by
[Total Numb. iß*.j
the old ministry of France, w«» fufp«oded..
He had time to mrke himfelf a party a
mong (he coloniftt, but,however, re/igned+
Rational coimnilTontr* feeing tho
danger, oi fiifferingGalbo to remain inth*
country,, fciuived to IV nd him back to ,
France put him prfoner on board a
liiip bet anting 'to the republic. Qalba
toolt advantage of hi* (itua,idn, gad of tjw
ic'iiiimnts »f the ufticcn oi marine to
ript (he crept, with money, and by ih«*
means nf tome of the coloniftt. whom ,he
narl attached .to him. Hr often harangn- •
ed .hem and .whenthe crewa went a (here,
di uik waapventhem by the ill disposed
col omits, who at the fame, time cxafpfra*
thfDi agaioilthe tolopifti.
fre **ere feveftii bloody affrays in ,
confequf nce%, T®* national con.miifian
ers fretng the storm that wat gathering,
ftutd a proclamation, which prohibited
L'very Tailor from being afnore after seven
in the evening. They atled in ,
ly within their authority \ but Gal bo made
use of thU circu.ip (lance to ekalberate the
Tailors (till more agaioit them ; and, in
.oncer; with their .officers, fucceedcd in •
prevailing on them to land as weH at the
he troops on ; the ill disposed colo
nifttjoined tbcm, and even a r.umber of
well inteqtioned white* were forced to
take up arms and follow them. Tbey at-.
:acked in full force »t<o -
tookiefnge iu tj.t government botife wflh
Come white*, who remained with them .
tnd some blanks. . , ,
3 he intention of Galba wit to make the
-omnnDio. trv to pt.t tli< m on
boa.d the armed veflelf Le cou.d depend
upod. to denounce tbeui, *nd ferct tnein to
France. . But the coD.roifliomii to b«tfle
llii* attempt called to their affilta. ee lie
negroes ot the ( country,.' Tw.-nty five
thousand camejn. ll.ry were armed, and
their, ficedom was pr.mlfcd rhem i£ ihey
would hfcht in tlie cau'fe of firedou. it
<va? in.pcSble UiMmr«te ike refemmmt „
orthefe, t/iey murdered ami burnt uithput
d>fcrimination,& those arrived in this toun.
tryewetieir Oifcty to tbeir hight.Sc thaic ■
abandoning their property t« save 'their •
lives. - - •
Ffom the (B'ftri) Chro
-1 NICLH of Jaly 18. -
To lie Membert ojf the Honourable General
Court.
D Y the proclamation of the, governor,
you a. e called on to a£en>blc on
18th day of Septembri\nexc. to contider a
afore momentous queflion than bat been
the (abject of lefcillative deliberation,, lince
the ever, memoi able period of the Stamp- ■
Act. Jc is a fubjeain, which i« involved
more danger to the liberties o£ America
than the claim of the Britfth parliament'
( 9 ta * »' without our con/erit. Jt U a
queltion in which it involved the ve
ry exiflence or non existence of your real',
legislative fupdians.. It is a queKion qn,
the determination of which depend* tbo
"overeigory, independence, and even the
rxiftence of this state, a*a..flee republic,
[f yon-acquiefce in the conltruftion gl»en
ro the federal conAitution, relative to the
lodiciary powers thereby verted in the fe
deral povernmcnt, (which two of the af
foci ate judge* haye decided in favour of
their own iiirifdiftiont you will seal your
nwn at a legislative
become merely a court of frflions o{ a
:ounty, and a body of eleflort'of the sena
tor* of the JJniort. Your future delibera
tioti* vill be on fubje&t of mere county
regulations \ and your aaa those of an
unimportant subordinate corporation.
If you a«cede to the claim of thp federal *
will be accessary in overtnrn
int the tedefal goveaoment, ansl eftablifli-,
ing in it* ftetd an lu.pOrial o'r.e. If you
do ; not oppose Ir, yon will surrender.tie
Povereigntyot tbe of Maffaahuiett*
(«hofe voice, can never be heat* with ef
(<■4l, but in the £ate legiQature) to a fo A
reign power ; for that government, H)urt
evpr be foreign to the people, which %iU
not be guided by the gcufM will, so of
ten exnrefled in public, and so nniverfally
mad* known and deQred by individual* In
every situation. If you Aibmit to the de
mand,you will authoriz* a foreign jnrifdiftU '
on,to exercift a power,which can never be>
cxercifed by It, but to the defau3ion nf •
your awn power ;to th> overthrow of the .
f.t K , 0 r V t , " m f nU / 10 lhe
of the Union, for the purports of arbitrary
power ; to the downfall of liberty, ami thefcdverfion of the Rigfcti of the People, for
whenever all thl important powers of
»eriV"cut, thall be concentered in that of
the United States, it will be wKhout
check or controul—it will aovefn by-force,
and the governors of provinces, as m the
days of imperial Roh»e,wWl not lopgheace
he the mere crcatutes of it« creation,.and
amenable thereto, f«r every ast of their
doing •• Already.they are "commanded to
leave U»eir governments, and to appear at
the •'Seat"of Government of the United
Surfeu" to answer 14 certain demands be
lore the federal ju4iciary. What a i®'«-
cifmin political ideas \ To order tbe cnlel
urtgittrate <*f a free and Sovereign repub
lic, to give an account as himlelf and nis
constituents, b?t'«»re a foreign judiciary 1
Ye wife legislators of M«ifachufetis !
Ye can nv'ver-believe that the,i<eopie iu
tendetl to give filch a power to the fede
ral government ; no-—nor can ye ever be
lieve that if their voice ever hno an)
■weight in the deliberations or decilions ol
it» adminlftrators, such a monttrons anc
prepoitcrou- claim could ever be set up b>
thun. If you concede to one usurpation
you will betray the sacred trust confided m
you by a brave and free, but unfiifpectin S
people; if vbu comply with this haughty de
mand olf.'if important and ambitious men
your degraded condition will ever be a
ffiam ion the fathers of MafiaciiufettJ v & a
felf humiliation unparalleled in the record:
of hiltoryt Your acquiescence will confirm
e conftruaiongiven toa clause of the * ede
raf Conftiturion, by the admihiftrators ol
it; (oiid which clause was evidently deign
ed to be ambiguous at the formation there
of) which will not only overthrow the go
vernment of M .ffachufetts, bntfwallow u s
in one gulph, all the states of America. -
Your concurrence in favour of the clam
wiir lay the found itioir of a proud and dp
preffire empire, long fought lor by youi
enemies, and whose cxtenlive boundariei
\vill thf-n be only equal to its powers, anc
■which cannot be exercised bnt to enthral
and rnflave the people. The great Mon
tclou! -a fay<,Avery extensive country can
not !><- fee uuder one single government ;
but:: may be free jiuder the governnieni
of a confederated republic—or words tc
that effect.
Wife Legislators '. Wilt you th<n con
rent to enslave, not only yourselves, but
be accelfary to the enfliving all your fel
low citizens in America, to the latest ge
neration ? Will you tamely yield to what
is conceived to he an usurpation, and which
was apprehended by many of the members
of the Massachusetts Convention, when de
liberating toa that very clause of the fede
ral convention, tefpetfing the jadiciar)
power, but which appreheiiuans were fai®
to be groundleft by the advocates of tlit
Conftitntion, and the jealousies ot th<
members on that fubjeft, w*re laughed at
and treated as ridiculous by a "®
others. Their suspicions were coufiderec
by them, as vilioys and chimeras ot the
brain, and as phantoms of a d.ftorted ima
gi nation. But what do we now behold
these chimeras, these phantoms t'lefe vi
fions, are no lo )ger imaginary, but
Sn the bo*d colours of a demand, a* foun
ded on ih it very conftitntion 1
Leziflators of Massachusetts 1 Many Ol
you were members of the convention:
Is it so long a time since that event happen
ed, that you have forgotten the
Wonine which then prevailed on you tc
adopt that con'litution ? I think not. ,
then let me ask you. did you th '
you -*ave such a power to the Federal J ud
«s. Is is now assumed under that govern
ment? I believe ybu will fay, no; thei
let me conjure you to be watchful of »
progressive encroachments. If this clain
is fitted, all the evils which have W
appreliended by the patriots of Amenta,
•will be poured out upon them, and tb<
ftatss individually, will remain a feebW
and miserable (keleton, of a once rofcul
government; for if the states, like
p>tty corporations, can do no ast which
jV final, and from which there lies
peal to any other power a (Turning to bi
paramount thereto, what is their c ° n *|"
in different from a county or parito.
which has power onN to make Bye u*
liable to be judged of by another body 1
all cases ? I fay in a" cases, becaufc th«
claim set up by the federal Judiciary, m»j
be extended to any or every cafe whate
ver. Jf the states are thus answerable foi
their eonduft to a federal judge, where",
their sovereignty, where
and importance as a state ? T.® wh * c e .°
is the guaf intee of the United States, thai
the mdivid lal states shall alwilys have a re
publiCa.i torm of government, if those re
publics are stripped o{even the lhadow ol
C realtors of Massachusetts !
to tS claim, nor thus fhamefully kiss th«
h«d that chastens you ; rather let th,
world know the strength of T oor °wr
power, and stretch forth your right arm so
' the protection of your invadfd rlghrt I 1
is the cause of liberty to four millions ol
people ! Assemble with alacnty. deliberatc
Vith 'firmoefs, make a declaration of th«
rights of the state, a» connected in the Fa
j„,| Union ; publish ao address to the pea-
Je the sovereigns ol Massachusetts, calling
•■if them to fuppon and defend the right,
$a free legin.tnre! Urrow
free* lik« » *» nl ewy encroach-
mentj review the code of law» madebv
the federal legitlature, and point out every
encroachment wherein they may have tram
pled cipher upon the rijhtaof the " a jc> or
the rigbu of the people ! Rcmonftrate
with firmnefcagalnft them,' and take mea
sures for preventing filch uncanftitutional
,i£h» if any, froip being carried into execu
tion : Thu'» you will convince the enemies
of a Free and equal government, that
" Maffachnfett* i», and of right ought to
be, aruE. sov*rei©n, and indepen
dent state 1" , b RUTUS .
Foreign Adrico.
t OND'ON, May «i. , 1
Copy of a letter from Glasgow, March 29.
" I wtt witnefa yesterday. to an occur
rence, which had in it« nature something so
rxtremely ludicrous, bur at the fame lime
accompanied with certain serious c'trcum
(lances, that I am at a loss in which of these
drains to give you an account of it.
" Yelterday the annual sermon, before
the society for the benefit of the Tons ot the
clergy, was preached at St. Andrew s
church. After the service, I wasl amaxed
to hear a band of fingers'begin " God Cave
the Kingl" Struck with the ftrangeoefs ot
the circumftauce, I could no? well imagine
hOwTnch an exercise could be introduced,
immediately afcertbe serious work in wnuli
we had been engaged, as I considered the
tionfe of God sacred (he purpofea il
i>iet> and devotion, but I found, uponin
that it was by delire of the nwgil
trates, who were then present.
* 4 The cjrctjmftance being in itftlf lo ex
traordinary and unexpected, I felt a lively
feufe Of the ridiculous, and expe£»ed when
the song was liniftied, to bear the church
echo with the l eply of " enccre, tticore.
but 1 foiin found niyfelf chilled with tlie
idea of profinity, committed againd that
Being for whose worlbip we h.id allembled.
It was meant as an expreffitm of loyalty—
Away with fueh expressions of lo)alty from
the House of God I—Let us not profane his
worlhip by the praises of a mortal man • J
wish, as much as any m.in, to encourage
'entiments of Wyalty to his majesty ; but we
tape that, in a future expreffiou thereof, 11
little more decency, as to titue and place,
wilt be observed.i , . ,
"It was with a mixture of disdain au«
jity, that I observed many present. who fate
n filcnce during the praises of God, join
with alacrity the chorus ot the song .
' It way be warth while to enquire what
were the present nobility of Europe in their
origin? Nothing more than the cb
ferocious warrior , who naited barbarity
of conquest with barbarity ef manners;
whose firll rights were those of usurpation
ind plunder, and who founded their pre
eminence merely on the command which
they exercised in war. Thus was the field
of battle, thenurfery ofthi« nobility, afin
eul r. a (Inking, and an alarming feature
of resemblance with the Cincinnati, an or
der founded in America Immediately upon
the 1 close of her war with this country;
<nd for whith, it is said, they are indebted
to the manoeuvres of a certain German
Baron now among them.—From such an
origin issued that lwarm of counts, dukes-,
and rnarqu.fles, which overrun and defo-
I.7ted Europe. All those titles of human
vanity were in their origin nothing more
than military titlea, denoting different de
;ree» of command, but Coon they became
splendid diftinciions and privilege in civil
life. Soon they laid the foundation of thai
jarbarous feudal fyltem. which for age:
lebafed all h»inan kind, converted whoU
nations into herds of Haver, and a few indi
viduals into broods ot tyrants.
COMMUNICATION.
Mr. Freneav,
ton are rtquefied ly a number of youi
(übjeribers to rt-pMJb the following AdJrcfi
from the Chailßsto* Daily AJver/ifer,
as July I*-
McflVa C««t « Ha**l»o»,
If you think the endofed entitled toaplac<
In your ufeful paper, you will oblige m<
by inferring it. It is not nyr Intention
to confine my ftriftures to the Prefideni
alone. I shall occasionally take noticc
of Tome other diflinftafhcd per J mage 1
and atn abnodantly turnifiied with ma
terial* for this purpose. It is high tiun
that a check should be given to the arro
gant and ambitions designs of certain
characters, and by dripping them ol," then
meretricious covering, enable theif fel
low citizens ta estimate their nrfpeftive
merits In the prosecution of my plan,
J will use the decant and manly language
•f a Republican. But should my indig
nation be sometimes roused beyond for
bearance, I trust I Ihall not be censured
for indulgiag it.
To the PRESIDENT of the UNITED
STATES.
J. .
ONE great advantage resulting from a
republican system of government, is,
the unrestrained privilege of fcrutlnixing
public meafwres, atd candidly iavettisatln 2
tbe'conduft of those men, who jure etitr rill
"1 with the-management of public affairs.
N*eibara£ler, however dignified, no mea
gre,® however Impewrtant, can possibly
efcapfc the exercise «f (his invaluable jriMt.
It is unnecctfary, *t to emplO}
mucH time in pointing out thft, many g oot
effett*, which might be obtained by a oj
ccnt nfe of thifimportiDt privilege. B>
cxpoling to a public officer the Imprpprietj
of nisconduft, it may prevent*.a,
of error>, and by detecting defects injpublie
meafurei, it may render the necefiarya
mendments more prafticable.ln addreffinj
to you thit letter, "J am actuated by mo
tive* purely disinterested ) and I aav ver)
much millaken in your private eharafter.
if a plain exposition of fa£H will not be
more congenial to your mind, than all thf
arts of courtier like sophistry, V trick* o(
ariitocratical ambition.
Every (hjr'i experience, fir, con*incei
me of the mutability of popular applause
and the facility with wtiich a public eha
rafter, gloriously acquired, may betarnilh
edi by an - unhappy dereliction of those
principles by wnkh it-was at firlk eliablilh.
ed. It grieves me, fir, to observe, thai
you may be adduced as « melancholy proo!
of my remark. was a time, "wbei
your mame occupied an elevated pofitloi
in the minds of your cotmtrymen ; anc
your charattej was bejoved by every ge
nuine son of America. You was londl)
coi'fidered as the fr He of your country
and prononnccd by every tongue aa orna
ment to human nature. The man whi
dared to diminiih, in the smallest degree
the lullreofyour military achievements
was co»(idered as an enemy ty his country ;
and the flighted expression of difrefyet
procured the execrations of your fellow
citizens But alas! what an allonifhki|
revolution hasa few years of peace pro
ductd in the sentiments of your country
men ? The affections of thoufaiid* of yeui
fellow-citizens are withdrawn from you
and fufpiciotjs are entertained, that yot
have, indignantly, cast behind you thofj
endearing principles ofrepublicanilm.whicl
are so congenial to the minds of your coun
try men, and to aftria oUfervance of which
you are, in a great measure, iadebted toi
all your fame. Should these fufpiciwn
be true, what a melancholy iiiliance will i
not exhibit of human frailty! What an
guilh will it not bring to the besom of eve
ry untainted Amwicm ! What a triunipl
will it not afford to those degeneratee
charatter*, who have o|>enly avowee
themselves holtile to the differing canfe o
republicanism and the,equal rights of man
Do not luppofe, fir, that 1 write in tbi
spirit of controversy, or that the informa
tionl havecomniuni-ared is an exaggeratee
fable. I speak to you the langi age o
truth, and did you calmly attend a moinen
to circumstances, you mud be convinced
that the reprefcntation is just. Permit me
however, to mention one (ingle f.ift, whicl
I have feletted from many others. Oi
that fame day, that a few of the inhabi
tarts of Philadelphia presented to yon ai
address, approving of your proclamation
wbieh enjoined a ftritt impartiality witl
refpett to the belligerent powers in Europe
on the fame day, I fay, an asldicfs o
joyful welcome was presented to the am
baffador of the French republic. But hov
different was the flile of 'each address
how very different was the manner of pre
fentation !' The address to you, fir, u a
presented by only th>*e hundred inhabitant
—the address to the French ambalTidoi
was delivered amjdfl the Ihouts and accla
motions of feverul thoujttnd citizet't- Wha
inference, fir, ou'ht you to draw froir
this circumstance? What a trfeful lelfor
might it not teach you ? Do yon suppose
fir, that the mod refpe&able citizens oi
Philadelphia would have feletted that da)
to address the ambaffaelor of the 1" rencf
republic, had they still retained that love
and efleem for yon which they once glo
ried to exhibit ? Had your proclitmarisr
been as consonant to the withes of the citi
zens of Philadelphia is the arrival of the
French ambassador, would the circum
(lancet attending each been so inateriallj
different? Had they been equally agree
able to the citizens of the United States
would not your proclamation have beer
more warmly received and generally ce
"petted. ,
It will be permitted me here to observe.
:hat the profecutlon you have ordered t<
je commenced againll two of the citizen:
jf the United State*, who had fervedor
ioard the Citizen Genet, has excited mucl
urpriae, mixt with Hot a little indignation.
It is not to be.supposed, that you wilh t«
introduce into the American, government
the drift discipline of a ctmp, and to efta
blifli no either measure between the exe«n
live power and the citizens, than rigic
command and implicit obedience. —Thai
■im American Ihould fee profecnted for en
listing under the banners of the French re
public ; that a citizen of the United States,
ihould bepuuilhed for legally fighting agaim.
a perfidious nation,that our govern
ment, rfeprefles our trade, and wantonlj
tramples on treaties is a meafare incom
patible with every principle of republican
ifin 5 abhorrent to the feeling* of ever*
honed American, and ought not to be
paltively tolerated. ItUa measure which
no motive of policy or prudence, can juf
tify.—lt U a uretch of power, which no
exifHng lawi, ne existing treatlef, which
even jour own "proclamation caunot au
thorize. "Let us admit, tir, sfcat the treaty
of peaca between Grearßrifain and Ame
rica exprefdy prohibited the American
citizens frpm taking up arms on the present
occaliou. and fighnng individually under
the.celours of the French republic, oughts*
free and Independent citizen to be punifticd
for ailing in dire® opposition to thia
tceaty, wben even the British government
has not yet complied with some of its, most
important articles ? Every honest Ameri
can will fay ,No. Let the Britlfh mimftry
tirlfc discover a difpolltion to ®ithiully ex
ecute the treaty ; then may you, fir, with
Tome propriety, authorize a prosecution of
svery violation on our part —-"tout I humbly
prefame not until then.
Permit me, fir, to close this addreft t®
you with oue irrefragable truth. It l*
;hii—that a .very large majority of the ci
tizen! of the United stat* are warmly in
terested in thd success of the French reso
lution, and begin to conceive, that the ex- *
Hence of the American independence I*
nfeparably connected .with tae eP»bfi(h
lieut of French republic. I Ihall fay
more on UiU fubjeel in a future address.
A CITIZEN.
Cliarlefton, July 4.
' a
«
/ «
ftr N4T:«*n GulTrl*
TO PAUL US.*
A FRIEND of mine has this moment ex
plained to we, what I protest I did not
before perceive, that tti your last perform
ance you bite your itrumb at me. 1 at»
entirely ignorant who it the author X. Y
w hom v» u are hunting the city for, and
cannpt even griefs, for Ihave never teen the
publications with which you are incensed.
If your comments on his writings are just.
his freedoms with a greit charatter prove
him to be a twin brother of your own, for
I fee you are guilty of the fame mefideinean
onr. The gentleman whom you mention
with so much arrogance, never exchanged
a sentiment" with me dire&ly or indireiuy
upon that or any other fitMeft. nor have 1
ever received communications of the nature
from any quarter. As >ou entitle me an
aflaffin of character, why do yoy foMow ail
example so pernicious, In belying, under
cover, those who know not you ? A news
paper being a kind of public conufellor,
c* ery outrage against the liberties of the
people merits reprooj ; bnt so marvellous
has the tempest of words against the
government of the Union, >nrf so malig
nantly and nnfparinglj have you and your
coadjutors la\ i(hed cenfbre upon men and
measures, that St is now very evident the
design is not to explain errors, but tod#-
l.afe, if not d«l>roy the government it'elf.
I need not repeat the woeful defeats of
your party. ,'The lomivon gOardians ms
our public peace and happinefe, .rienci
of sober rational liberty have d ap
plauded. To butcher my n.imr may alle
viate In some measure your vexation, dif
appointnienr, and lemorfe, and you are
welcome. Mindful how much I have beet*
wronged iu this city myfeif, - sometime*
when I have a vacant liour, I vindicate, as
well as I am able, worth and innocence in
native and foreigner, ever fttidionato pre
fer ve the nnacft truth and decency, and
promote the peace and welfare of the citi
zens of the United States; but as I sincerely
forgive all my enemies. ,God forbid that I
(hould write a line to injure any of the no
man race.—As yon fay you know my name,
I need not sign it.
July 27th,' r:yj. *
* See National Gazette of Jnly ao.
To the Editor. •/ the National Gazette.
IT is raid that the Judges of the UniteJ
A States have been convened to a»U tne
□nderftanding of our executive on tne
treaty between France and the
Status—lt is a little Orange
alone thould be supposed capable of decKP
,„B n^.con.rnoXfW
entertained by the "VXh"^
;„cv . if the opinion of the people ougnt icf
£ nmleof comlud in a free
which feemt a little doubtful
are not the people, in their reparatives
convened Jd confolted
molt serious import to the United Mates.
a myllery about this which I can
s« i. "w™»rjlis
voice of America would be the beftiater
pretation of the treaty, and furelyJ*'* "J
Sat to be obtained fr<nn a few intereftwl
individuals buzzing la the£«**»«
favAiir • or trom-a pair of Secretanet wnoi®
princpesare alittledoubtful ; orfrom.
b"nch P of judge-, whocan speak
fenfc of it, but not thefenfe «f the P^oP I®--1®--
If instead of UgO'fJH himfelf, the Pru
dent had convened Congress, the P*®P**
would not have beheld the arbitrary use of
power which has exited alarrt, and he
would have escaped the' censure which haa
been so generally heflowcd. It
peaed that a certain great man who diretta
ih« political mevemeuts of the executive,
Jtho" not the officer of the P;
tie timid, for fear the p-</'*' Congreft
lhould make him paU Uwothan hr has hithe-to undergone, and that
this it ili'o trde reafo.i \fchy the reprtjcnta
tines *f the people are not consulted upon
tills hiomentous-occnfion —Thi» has the air
of probability ; for the number of 6ank-di
recUri, Jfockholdert, and jlock jobbers, do
not b<ar quite so great a proportion to the
whole body of Congress as they did at the
lafk (Vffion. Our executive are in an- up
roar hecaufe a French brig ha» been armed
in this po. t» but they appear to slumber
over the Britijh armaments that have bee*
made berc, and the multiplied injuries and
insults that our flag has (attained from the
pirate* under Englith colours. What doei
this difference of conduttto the two nation:
indicate ? Americans, it is time to lpdlt
about you.
JUBA,
July as, 1793.
PHILADELPHIA.
Saturday, July 27.
There were letters in town yefterd*)
frim Cape-Francois, dated fonie dfcys since
ttfc burning of that place, which mention,
• tranquility is a;aiii restored—and thai
"plumber of white inhabitants if iil remair
Ml the town, which is not more than twe
thirds deftroyrd. in consequence of this in
telligence, there are fevrral families pre
parirg to return there from the different
ports of the United States ia American
bottoms. "The oily obstacle to this deter
irvn ition i«, the risque of meeting with in
and every kind of interruption frorii
the New-Providence privateers, fitted out
by Lord Dunmore and the Refugees, of:io-
Corious memory iu New York, 6cc.
The Xebeque Sans Culottes.Captain Mol
inari, belongs to Marseilles, and carries ic
double fonitied 9 pounders and too men ;
fell in with the (hip Flora of Glasgow,
bound outward to Jamaica with dry goods,
on the 29th of May, and sent her with a
prize matter to this port. Th«r; were ic
paflengers in the Flora who are now 011
board of her. The privateer came up to
port on Tuesday morning and fired a falutc,
as did also the prize Ihip.
The Flora carries 6 pounders and 4 swi
vels, so that die seems to have been fitted
•ut as a letter of marque.
The Ihip Fair Araericai) was boarded out
side the Capei by the Petit Democrat pri
vateer, who examined their paper* and
then left them.
Captain Gillies left Tortuga about the
7th current, and wa: at Cape-FrancoiS du
ring the conflagration of the 23d ult. He
is of opinion tbat there is only about one
quarter of the town dcftroyt?d. There are
several paflengers in the two vefTels from
T°rtnga.
It may be proper to notify the mer
chants, that when (jie Britilh privateer?
board our veflels, they take full liberty of
opening any letters they pieafe which the>
can find aboard, whether public or private.
Th< s may serve as a caution'to those who
•re fond of literary correspondence. Wt
have this from unquestionable authority.
I
Captain Caffels from St. Johns, neat
Tortola. in 1 7 days pnflage, informs, that
the Englifti Windward I (land fleet, caalift
ing of 138 fail of m«rchantihen, under ef
cort of three 50 gun Uiips and two (loops of
war, failed from Tortola on the 23d June,
for, Europe. Further, that information
had been received from Antigua, that at
the failing of the above fleet, the troop,
bound to the attack of M-irtiniq'ie were
embarked, and were to fail that day.
K/ngflon {Jam. ) June H. Arrived, prize
brig Defiance. James Newell, matter. She
was under American colours, and laden
w rh fug»r, coffee, 30 (laves, and 8000 dol
lars : (he was bound to Baltimore.
The French X*beque Sans Culottes,
from Marseilles, now in this port with her
Cize, the Flora, from GlasgOw, was
ought to by the fort on Mud Island on
Monday night last, and on Tuesday morn
ing failed pad with her prize ainidft the
of the garrison of the fort, which
were ansWered by the crews of both veflels
We learn, by an arrival at New-York,
that left Cape Francois the 7th of July inft.
the Spaniards were within four miles of
the town, committing every poffiblc depre
dation. Before lo >n.; fight of land, there
|>ort of cannou wa» hard nearly in the di
feflion of the Cape j supposed to be an en
gagement between the forces of the com
ttiiilioners and the Spaniards.,
On the 17th inft. two veflels arrived at
Boston, one from Liverpool, the other from
Amsterdam. By neither of them has any
intelligence been* received than we
were before in poflVffion of. ' The letters
from Amtterdam are as late as May 26.
Business was extremely dull at Ainfterdan
tiotwitbftanding the war; nor were there
•ny vigorous warlike measures pursuing.
With regard to the battle on the Bth ol
May ,'it was thought iu Holland tne French
has as good a claim to the victory on that
<lay, as the combined armies. The fact
was, that the French made the attack, re
inained mailers of the field two days, and
on the third retired unmolested, The ac
tion was long auU vveli bvlh fides.
The Auflriain and PrnlEans loft 800 men
killed ;■ and the iiriti(li guard* lulfered in
such a manner, as to give thim an idea the
conquelt of Fiance is a matter of ferioua
enterprize, and not to be easily accoin
plifhed oven by those that tight under the
Itandard of the Britilh lyon.
The island of Jamaica' ii, in' great part,
ferionfly diftrefled for the article of prori
lions. About the latter end of June, a
committee of th« inhabitants were about
applying to the governor to open the porti
to American vellcls for a limited time.
The (hip Flora, from Glasgow, was ta
ken by the xebeque Saus Culottes, of
Vfarfeilles, the 29th of May, in lat. 37. 36.
l °ng. 33, 33 W. There were 14 paflen
jcrs 011 board the Flora, three of whom
were ladies. We are authorised to fay,
that the paflengers, while here, cxpreflcd
:he4r gratimde in the ftrongelt terms, for
:he humane and generons treatment they
rxperienced froiu captain Molinari, of the
Sans Culottes, his officers, and every perlon
Ait on board the prize,.'
A report was raised last week in New
i ork, by a few contemptible enemies of
the French, that the Englilh prisoners »n
aoard the L'Ambufcade w'ere treated with
rile parsimony, and that the captaifts ol
the merchantmen wera. reduced to the
aire allowance with the'r men. In con
ference of, such malicious reports, aiu
Talfe as malicious, the commander of" th<
(rigate invited all ped'on. to come 01
board and scrutinize his conduct toward;
the prisoners in the ftri&elt manner : Ir
consequence of which many citizens, a:
well as Englishmen, and others, went ot
board, and after examining the prisoners
were conltrained to report that the cap
tains qf the merchantmen, agreeable to the
national order, eat daily at the marter'i
table, and that both captains and men par
ticipated alike in the extraordinary allow
ance of rum aftid wine dillributed 011 cer
tain occasions, bvfides living aLotf:er timei
it least as well as the French officers anc
cre>v. They who are acquainted wit!
the ships of republican France, will ac
knowledge th.it 110 man 011 board is liifFer
ed to want the necefl'iries, or even the de
cent comforts of a Tea life.
Charles Weem«, mailer, and James Fish
Teaman, of the schooner F.ig'e, of Balti
more, have given in their deposition be
fore one of the jufticesof Camden county,
in the state rf Norlh-Caroiina, relative tu
their capture at feu by the privateer Kjre
capt. Brownlow, of Bermuda. W; fli.-.1.
give the particulars of this deposition in our
next.
Letters from Port-an Prince, of Ju'y j.
fay. " that general Borel was then i.i Port
Jereinie ; he is inverted by an army fr-»m
Port-au-Pi itice and Leoj;a»e, and alio by
Pea. It ii (aid that Jcrcmi<; is fupplird
from Jamaica with piovifions and ammu
nition. The veflels from the Cape liavr
gluttej the market : three American Vef
[els from thence hare been taken for want
of papers, and fentimo Jamaica."
Proclamation of the Civil Commis
sioners. *
Cape-F.ancois, June 21, 1793.
WF. declare, that tbe wilj of the French
republic, and that of its delegates, is, to
give liberty to all the negro warriors, who
will fight for the republic, under the or
ders of the civil coinniillioners, as wkII a
gainrt the Spaniards, as against the othw
rnemies, whether internal or external.
1 he republic desires also to alleviate the
condition of the other slaves—by prevent
ing them from being ill treated.as former
ly—by fumifhing them with better provj
lions, and more capacious apartments for
their convenience—higher wages by the
year, and more leisure through the week
to attend to their own affairs—more kind
ness and refpeft for tbe women who are
pregnant, and f«r nurses—by affording then
certain means of redeeming themfelvei
by means of determined sums finally. b<
jiving gradually liberty to thenegroes «h<
can fuyiifh proofs of their good conduit
snd of their alJTduity iu labor, and by giv.
ingthem at the fame time pieces of lan<
snd property fufficient to afford themfelvei
aud families an honest fubfillence.
All the negroes who may be declared free
by the delegates of the republic, (ball bt
equal to all freemen, whether white or ol
any other colour : they shall enjoy all the
rights belonging to French citizens.
This is the million which the natioua
convention and the executive council ol
the republic h»ve given to the civil com
niiflioners.
turned* POLVIREL,
(Signed) SANXHONAX>
Letters from Paris are received to the
1 jth of May. One of these mentions that
the affairs of the Republic were going 01
well. " The rfiltin&ion of royalist is a
bolished, and all good citizen; call them
selves Jacobin. Our troops have taken,
and are in pofleffion of Leige, Brufl'els,
Mons, Tournay, and one other town,
the name of which I cannot call to mind.
The wa. fliip that failed from Brest the
latter end of March,ha* feut into L'Oriem
jo fc'nglilli and Spanish veflels; feme ot
them mounting jo, and others 40 guns.
The vi' the i reutU awy is au^weuietl
; sols per ( | a y. The estate* belonging to
the emigrant* are fee up for stile ; the royal
palace of Bourbon is (old 'to a company, of
manufacturers; Chantilly gardens are like
wise fold off in lot*."
9th July tflere were 13 or 14
American velfcls lying at New-Providence,
detained and under leisure. They were
all takeir on their pafTage from St. Do
mingo to different 'ports of the.j£7»ited
States, under pretence of
property on board. There are now a
great number of prifoaers at New-Provi
dence, taken out of American veflels,
inudlly the miserable refugees from Cape
Francois, who had taken fan&uary tnjder
the American flag, but have been so unfor
tunate as to fall into the bands of the com
mifltoned pirates that infefl the Bahama
seas. Jh a late instance, they had even
the heart to take the lalt barrel of coffee
from a diftrefled widow, lamenting the
untimely fate of a murdered husband and
children.
We are informed that the grand jury of
the circuit court, on Wcdnefday last, made
several presentments to the court, of divers
persons In this city, for having caused sun
dry veflels in the port of Philadelphia to
be anned aitt equipped in a warlike man
ner, beingr an iniraction of certain treaties,
and a direCt violation oi neutrality ot
the United declared by the Presi
dent's proclamation.
One of the Goodrich's (Bridger) of infa
mous recollection in the iare war, is now
employed in fitting our privateers at Ber
muda, to criiile againlt the French, and
American veflels, / pp j:d to have French
property on board.
fCommunicat-.-d by a Correfpondent.J
TOASTS given on the 4th day of July,
1:93. in Paflyunk town Hup, by a telecl
coivpany.
1. The greatest GEORGE on earth. 2.
The United Stares rf America. 3- Th«
Worthy and patriotic g vcrnor MIFFLIN
4- Succeis to the Republic of Franee. 5. Ci
tizen GENET. 6. May the celebration of
the anfpicious fourth day of July, nevei
be but kept up by us and out
pofierity wiin emreafi.ig eclat forever
Amen. 7. Afpceriyeniaiicipatioii.ro the
whole ere:.t up. 8. May the valour ir
war, and the fc-. ll in peace,- of pilot Wafh
ton, never be wanting £uide the politi
cal helm of the American barque. 9. Maj
the superlative bit-flings \te enjoy, teact
us to defend them. ro. May the fun ol
unity, peace and concord, continue to (him
with additional lustre. on our Americar
Canaan. 11. Mny the good Prug of A
merica teach all birtl* of pall'ige to b«
'.havkful, and not attempt to perch on toe
a branch, and dogmatically dilate or
affairs of government. 13. May all ene
m>s, fj ies, emiilarie* and difhubersof oui
internal tranquihty.be guillxtin'd, or a-la<
lantern d. 13. May all those who envj
us, never partake of our bk-fliigs, and thcli
co lta.it abiding place be Nova-Scoria anc
B itany Bay, there to live on cod-fifh taili
f.iaked In whale oil, with a small moiTel ol
liread. 14. M:y confuflon and want kc
the constant companions of the armies, anc
tlifunion and diflraCtion ever attend the
rounfel* of all congenial defpoti* powers.
ij. May the French beat the'Audriam
»nd Prussian Blues, 'till they become black
and-blue ; and all thp enemies to Frenci
freedom, be tordcnincd all their days
(o pound Plaifer cf Pari*. 16. Volun
eer Toast—May the Poles unite their
trength, and with the affiltance of the
friends to univerful freedom, ohl ge those
imbitiou*, npat ion land jobbers and land
Rtifli.-., and I russia, to be so
Pole-ite as to rertore the stolen property
10 the r gl.t and lawful owners, with dam
\g#s, and Ihe Royal Thieves be condemned
o undergo a total and eternal objuration
jy the Sun of Liberty.
Letter from Citizen A. F. Lozeatl. mem
>er ot the National Convention nf Franee,
;o the Editor of the French National
:<azetie,dated 30th April.
Citizen Editor,
I beg you to publish the following ac
:ount of the bravery of of citizen Scorfery :
—Captain ScortVry, coumanrier of th« pri
/ateer L'Ami des Lois, of Dunkirk, car
rying a tun:.and 40 men, failed the Bth inft.
jn a cruize ; the next day flie carried two
jiizes into Havre, one of theta English,
oaded with hay. grain, and strong beer,
:he other a Dane, loaded withSpanifh wine,
>ound to PrutEa. On the 14th, the feut
nto the fame port a Dutch /hip loid*d
with cheefc and leather, bouud to Fal
mouth : after having manned the three
• forementioned prize*, there remained 'or
board the privateer only jj men, with
whom the brave Seorfery did nothelitate,
on the 20th inft. to attack an English brig,
on board of which there were one hun
dred and Sve soldiers and three officer*,
which, after *n oftinate engagement, be
look and carried into Dieppe.
Citizen Scorfery and his brave compan
ions merit the highest eulogium*. for en
paging a veflel loaded with troops, and
with unequal force—they ran great danger,
without expectation of any profit.
The difintereftednefi, patriotism and in
trepidity of tb'efe brave republican*, con
cur equally to render these brave French
men A. f. LozijAV,
Last Saturday failed from the Chefapefcey
bound for New,-York, two French Onps p*
war oi 74 guns each, four frigates, and fix
(loops of war. Tbefe veflels are hourly
looked for in New-York, inoft of which, it
is said, are to {lay on these coasts for Come,
time, • and, with the Ambuftade, to>forni *
line of crujfert off the principal port*.
Late letters from Bourdeaux mention
hat the insurgents Lu France are mostly
juelled and scattered. The armies of tltt»
Chine, the Moselle, and the North \ver» '
"oon to ast ofieniivciy against the combined
tJowers. ,
A correspondent has a other iff to allure
:he citizens of the I'nited States that th«
ninifter nf France has heard with pain a
eport, that a vtflel .belonging to the re
public fliould have offend violence to aa
American velTcl. The miniftrr has gi
»en orders that the offence IhouUl b«; iiu
ncdiately t-nv|uired "into ard die captain,
f found guilty, H.ould be displaced and .
Mjnilhcd. He has likewise given peremp
:ory direction* :o all commander* of vef- .
Vis in the fernce of the French republic,
>11 the American station, tppay that xt
ention and refpeft to the American fljr
hich is due from ore ally to 1 another, 311 a
;onformab!e to the oblijjatidjj oi' treaty
i nd Iriendiliip. ™ /
Extra£l of - • letter from Rotterdam, da
ted May 4.
" As if it was not enough to be at war
.vith Fiance, and to fee many of our veffeia
Vised and taken by that nation—with the
Algerines we have now War likewise. This
jcople were honed enough, however, t»
release ten or more veflels taken before a
imited time, but since, they" took many
rich prizes, and we are apprehensive fop
more. Our (hipping diminishes woefully
—If peace was made this moment, I tlunk
kve ihould have at mod one fourth only of
:he number of veflels our nation had aC
Tea in 1779."
[From a Correspondent."],
The liberty of the press, the right of
tlifculling public measures. a::d the conduct
us public officers in their official capacities,
is a right the people have expreily reft-rv
rd to themfelvts in their Conllituiioni.
1 here are, lam told, a set of geutlemen.
"ery busily engaged at this t me in laying
(Iheinesto abridge this liberty, either by
menacing the conductors of fu. h nenfpa
icrs as do not suit their palate's ; 01 by
throw ing to others a fop, so as to ket p up a.
;ood undent .Hiding, iin cafe of neieffiry.
Ir rests with tlie pu' lic to keep an e- e u,i<>ri
he conduct of thrir typographical firvuncs,
intl fee that the Piefa i< nti uc» in this
:ountry\\hat it oug it to be, no r<jpecttr of
VerJ'ont : —
3 fieri d weapon ! left for Truth'? defence.
Belt Aon £<. of fol;y, vii_e, !».ul ins ili-nce ;
Still be t' y powei.. to*- avi:,i hands i!ei::.<d.
No Trealtirics ruit thee—aiid no Jtjuitt
guide.
£xtraft of a letter dated Bourdeaux,
May u, 1-93. ,
The channels now Its: to write you from
this country, render it iu»;r uJetit to f«y
any thing on the fubj-.-tl of politics. We
are perfefHy quiet here, and in tie n«igh
borhood of this department. Thegovern
ment of France contiinies their liuiforw
prot.flion and favour to the American
commerce, and the trading perple have
much confidence in, and pay higher freight*
to American vefleis than to any other '
neu'ral ones.
[ The prices current in our next ]
The day before the Marseilles privateer
Xcbeque, Sans Culottes, now in this port
fell in withrhe rich Glasgow ihip Flora*
(he was chafed by a frigate, which gaining
011 her, obliged the captain to have some of
her beams Cawed, that by having her worka
loufencd, ftie might fail falter. This had
the defii ed effect.
In three late London gazettes there are
no less than fifty fonr bankrupt comniif
fions ! A letter jufl received from London
mentions that another deputation of mer
chants hid waited on Mr. Pitt, -with ar.ex-
remonstrance againfl the conti
nuance of the war. No l>ii»fa£tory an
swer was given.
Ks* In our last, we omitted to mention
that the gross amounts of duties and ton
njge, f«r the (everal ltaces, were for
three mouths only—Coma the ift
ot October 1791, and endi:i« on' the Jilt
•I December of the fame year.
Components to JUSTICE, in Fen-*
ho\ Utl Gazette. He is delired to advance
and give us an opportunity of determining
whether his cou tensnce Is Leonine or Afst
Icune-H tjie former, we have a Taraoen
tor him; ff the latter, a Madrigal, to*the
r,<■*<
PRICE OP STOCKS.
•'«PP r Ccats ,J..
Thrte p«r Ccats 10/ I
Dcfentd
Sank »f the Uaitcd StaUi c.'ad#torwPennfylvaniiMiLiTiA Law.
fr»m our loji. and concluded.]
Se&ion XXVII. And it it further cnaß
id by tb* mtthotiiy'afbrefjid, That any per-
Sn wKo (fcatl'of ority oe appointed ty any
rigaete lulprftoi witUm this. itate, iot
toHet\ the militia (hall be bound to
account with, and pa* ever to the Infpec ,
tor of the Brigade, bv whom he lkall have
been lo appointed, all the monies he ihal!
bare received for £nei, within ten day*
after demand thereof fl-.al: bemade j' a.na.
all and every fucK perfori* re'Fufiflg to ren
der or fettle his Vcconnt, in manner yfbre
{ i I, (hall be liable to Have Hi j good*, chat
tela, land* and. tegmenta 'within this
llate, seized andiccured b* warrant, tinker
the hand and (eat of the In r peAor of the
brigade in which such delinqnent-colle&or
hath or may have acted, dire&ed to the
(hetiff or coroner of the proper county,
who (hall make-repfrt of his proceedings
to th« (aid Infpedior : and if there are no
such goods, chattel*, lands or tenements,
or they being seized,' he ihalN-rtntinae to
withhold, or refufe'to fettle his account
of fines received, then, and tn tftit tafe,
the said Infpe£lor"fliall i3ue his warrant,
under his hand and Teal, dirc&ing the (he
riff dr the cot6ner of the cfiunfy in which
the delinquent may be, to feiie and take
hi* body, and commit the fame to 'he
common gaol of the county, there to con
tinue without bail or msin'jriltf, tin'jl he
Jhal) exhibit,and fettle his account us afore
faid, and discharge the colt* of pioficu
tfon, and all and every collector,
as afore said, who hath, or fliail, "Upon set
tlement of his'account, be foutvl to have
balance due by h'in of the fines oiled
id, and shall not, within ten days af:er
demand mad£ by the Ins -edtor discharge
"and pay the full amount thereof, then and
in lu<rh cafe, it (hall and may bv lawiul far
tlie said InfpeQor, immediately to iSue
This warrant to the flierifF or coiot.cr, ti
levy the sum due by fueh delirqii'i t roi-
K<ior, by distress and f leof the offender's
goods and chatte s, lands and tenements,
together with cpfts and cha/ges, which
<!lftrefs and sale (hall'he made in tr. nfter
before directed for tour and muster lines
and finrs .mpofed by Courts Menial,'but
if no luch goods aiul cha'tels, lands 01
'tenements, can be found thtn to fe ze
take the body of such < ffendcr, and coih
init him to the common goal, thereto re
tain for the fpsce of fix months, unlefa
he (hall foone idi fcha rge the deb: rproc ure
"such security, that the fame (hall ue dif
«harged within a reafoirtble time. aa nay
fecwre and fa isfy the said infpe&or.
Sea ion XXVIII. And It it fufthn
'tnoßcd by 'the authority That al
and every of 'the fines and so feitures bj
this att made' payable, and the modi
«f recovery not herein beforp particular!)
pointed out, (hall be recovered by tin
Infpedora of th» several brigades, in th«
name and for the use of the Common
wealth, by a&ionof debt, Before a Jullic<
of the Peace, or in any Court of Record
within this Commonwealth, as from the
amount thereof, they (hall be more pro
jierly cognizable, and the laid lnfpedtoi
'ihall account for, and pay yearly to th<
"I reafury of the Commonwealth, all such
"fines zt he (hall receive by virtue of tbii
act.
Sefticm XXIX. jlnd be it further enaPet
ty the authority aforcjaid, I hat all moniei
palling into the Treafu-y by virtue of the
directions of thisa&, (hall be appropriated
as a fund for the purpose of supporting
the necessary ofiirifcrs for carrying this la*
into effect, and of equipping ar.d furnifh.
jng the Militia wfth <Very uee ffary appa
rat us for the defence and security of tin
(state. the fuif>l«is if any, to be sppropri
ated in'fuch manner and to such uses, ai
the General f. (Terribly fliail (rom . tint, tc
time dfredl and app. int. And the Trca
sure' of tie Commonwealth fi-.all keep al
the monies aiiffg from fines by the Mi
litia Law, (cpar. te from all other moni< s,
and keep a separate book of the fame, are
the expenditures thereof, pursuant to th«
directions o : tin*
Section XXX. ylnd he ft furthet enaPec.
iy the authority afortfaia, That the 13ri
uade Inlpea-rTihd two
{ball. apprai(e the horfc of each pirlon
; crv ng as a light horfem.in, immediately
before every time of going into attual
Jervice, and enter the fame in a b' ok ; »r<j
in cafe such borfe fuall-be killed, or die in
ifftual service, or he taken by the enemy,
other wife than by neglc£t,he (hall be paid the
full value of his horse, according tot hefaid
appraisement, by an order to be drawn by
the Infpeftor on lh« militia fund, iq' the
of the Tr/enfucer for that purpose., 1
Section XXXI. find be it further enaQea
ly tbe authority afarefaid, That if any
officer,' tion'commiflioned officer, t>r pri
vate or vblunteer afttng with
the m.Efn, rfffidinjr in this state, having a
family, fhatl be killed, or fhal! die of hJ
wounds, received in the service of thii
Hate, his widow, child or children, ihall
be entitled to firnilar relief, and ondcr the
falne regulations and relliiftions, as *e're
provided by the ast, entitled, " u An a>3
t*> provide for tSe riiore effectual relief oi
the widows and children of tbe of&ecra
and privates of the milit who have 101 l
their live* iu the Service ©f their coon
try 5" palled on the rwentv-feventh diy
of March, One thousand seven "hundred
and ninetv j and if any officer, nun cdm
milfioned officer, or private militia man,
or volunteer a&ing with the 'militia, rc
tiding in. tbis fla'.e, shall be \*feunded, 01
otherwise dtfabled in the service of' thii
Hate, lie bef milled to lirrvilar rel ef,
and iindfrrtbe time regulation* and re.
Itriftions as hid been prov.Jed by An ast,
entitled, " An ast to alter and ,4.v.end the
ast, "entitled, " An ast for tin* relief oi
officers, fohliers sr"d teamen, whe in
course of the Vr war have beeu wounded,
or otherwilr uitnS.o<* in >he service of rhi«
flute, or o! the Uiiite4 States;" .piffeil
the tenth di;v ot IvWcli, one ' thouf-fIU
seven hundr-d and ei^ht*-feve*i.
Se" ion XXXII. .-nd be it further en
sled ly the authority ~ far? fa id, That il
any or perfa.u lualt knowingly f 11,
btiv, take or o.incealo*- other
wise fraudulently receive, any artrtr, ac
L'outn-flints, co!..:lrs or drums, belonging
to this llate, or tlie Unit.'d S'at s, on any
:c oiiiit or pretvnee .vl.n fqc«er, the per
rou so offei.Jinjr, ocin ? emvifted thereof
jefor« one or moro Jotlice 01 Jnfttces oI
lh* Pence of »he city or county where
li ch offence Hi ;li be committed, (ball for
k-it and pay so* every such offence, treble
:!ie value of such arms or 'ccoutrements,
o be afcertmned'by Jult ce orjnf
icel, and levied t~y Jithc.s and f.le ot the
["fTencer? goods and' ciiJttleti by the Ju'Mce
'r Jufti ft before whim such offender (ball
be conviftad, retu,r ing the overplus, il
my, on demand, to inch offender, ar 1 for
want of such di!h-;fs (kail commit fm-li
Sender tothe common goal ot t!ie county,
there *0 remain, without bail or ■ \ainpriz-,
for any term not exceeding three mouths,,
unlets (uch money 1' all be (o-tiier paid, an '
In every furch cafe the proof ot the pro
perty fr.kli be made by the pcdleuor of iuc'i
irmt and accoutrements.
Section XXXIII. stnd Be It furiotr'er.
ißed by the authority afirefaid, That if any
fust or suits (hail be !;rou., ht <ir commenced
aga nft any person a' ptrf'«ns to. any
done in putiun .ce of rb's ast, tht action
Ihull be laid in the county wh re the
sacfr of such atvio i did arifej «nd noi elfe
wh;Te, and 'he or Ci fendants in
such action or actions to be brou-ht, may
plead the genera', iflue, and gjve this ao
and the special matter in evidei ce 5 and il
(he jury (hall lind for the defendant or de
fendants in such action or actions, or if the
plaintiff or 'jl'ittr.ifls (hall be nonsuited, or
d'feontiuue his or their action or aftioj»s,
sfter the defendant or defendants (ball have
appeared, or if upon demutr r, judgment
thai! be given against the plaintiff or plain
tiffi, tbe defendants fhalt have treble colts,
and have the like remedv Tor the fame, ai
any defendant or deTendants hath or have
in other cases to recover cofls by law.
St ft ion XXXIV. And be il farther en
aP.td by the aithuri'y aforefuid, That an ast,
entitled, ".An ast for the regulation of th<
nvlitia o'f the commonwealth of Pennfyl
van'a," passed 011 the twentieth day ol
March, in the year of our L.ord one thou
faud fiven hundred and eighty * also, s
fuppLmi nt to .the said ast, passed th«
twenty second day of September, in ih«
year of our Lord one thousand <even han
dled and ; also, the fu)(plement tc
the faicT ast, passed on the twenty firft day
of M<»rch, in the year of onr Lord one
thousand seven hundred and eighty three j
also, a further supplement thereto, palled
on the' twenty second day /of "'September,
in the year ot our Lord one thousand fever
hundred ai/d eighty tbree ; also," so muct
of an ast, passed on the ninth day of De.
cember, in the year of our Lord one «hou
sard fevetr hundred and eighty three, en
titled, " An ast for the more effeftuall]
fei uring and rccoveVing for the ufea of th<
commonwealth the monies "due for excifi
»nd militia fines, and for other pur;ofes
therein memioned," at c~>mes within the
intent, meaning, Snd purview of thi» ast ;
tlfo, a further lupplcment to the said reci
ted adj, passed on the twenty second day
of March, in the year of our Lord- one
thousand ftven hundred and eighty.eight,
be, and the fame %re hereby repealed and
ni'de null St void. Provided a!<wajs, That
nothing herein contained (hall be'conilrued
so as to revive any former law-, or part of a
law, whivh in and by any of the said re
cited afls i.n and made void. 'Pro
vided aijo, That nothing in this .'£l con
ta ned fhatl'hi deemed to repeal, alter
dispense with the powers, authorities or
duties of thc-prefent 1 eutenants of th« city
of Philadelphia, and ot the several counties
in this'c»mmouw. ahh, or j6f any Other of
ficer or perton under the militia laws that
have'been in this ftue, imme.H
»idy before the pafling of this ast, until fcy
uefr- ippo ntments liuder tliis ast their rf.
fpeftive fu-)ftions and du'ti.-s (hall hav,e de.
solved on other peifons ; and that the said
prcfent hctite.Tan 9 arid other proper officers
ire hereby authoiifed, required arid en
loincd to collect, or canfe to be collffted,
ill fucfi fines and forfeitures as have been,
jr (hall be incurred during the c •ntinu
mce of their refpeftive commiffioris, and
pay in the fame, agreeably to th>s law or
ihc late 'laws aforeliid, on or before 'the
lirft day of Jatuiarv'next.
'Section XXXV. Ar.d be it further en
iSed by tht authority a/'orefaid, That the
Governor fhidl ctufea futficient numfe* of
;opies of this law, and of the rules ot dil
ripiitie* approved and fftablirtiea by Con
rrefa i.i their rcfj+oti not the twenty ninth
Jay of March, one thoiifind leven hundred
ind ft?venty nin«, t6 be priuted in the Eng.
ifh and German languages, and distributed
hroughogt the Hate, so that every gene
'al and field officer, every brj/adc iufpec
r>r, and t v»ry captain, be farnilhed with
»ne c»pv ; and it (nali be t'>e auty of every
:aptain, at every comp ny meeting, to
•ead, or canfe to be read to the company,
he fame, or foch part theieof as he may
hinfc necs-fTtry.
G til A ROUS WYVKOOP,
«»£ th,: House of Re.refcatativts.
"S.iMUEL POIVLL,
S; jakei or the Senate.
Apbroved, April 11, J 793
THOMAS JVJIFFLINT,
Governor of the Commonwealth
of'Pcniifylvania.
METEOROLOGICAL OBiERf ATtONS.
Juiy 1793.
D. // Burv/n.fTbtr, Wml Weather
Cut/day, i 6. 6 ay. 7$ 70 W. Rain,
.J, 26. 7 £2 d">* Fair,
- r ■- - — - ■ • ■ - # — ■ ■ 1 ■ ■
V<o ftrjti-}, 17. t- 19. $ rye *>J. Fair,
5 ai y» W. da.
1 uu'iUuy 9 iZ o j , c W. f'uir,
——. v?° s. w." <io.
-Js. 0 -9. 175 >
3 ac o . 8: W. ley Ay,
*vfurdsy, ao. 6j 30. C 7 A W. 1 sir
. j}] 30. .0 $ \, W
tunaay, zt. o( 30 . • 7c fir.
3 To. J'- tO I do.
HjMJ y, 2"* t| jC. >» 7* J.VV | tairr,
• | 8 7 I to. ,| do.
JuftPubliJbtd
fcy JoitNjTow and Jujticje,
No. 4i,Cbii..ui >V(i«t, ii.u may Lc had at
i No. 209, Mftrkci Sticet,
Pri<* Mt andJ»ur pence tsf penny t
Travels through America^
A Kem—by Michael Forrest.
CONTENTS: '
VQYACE from Irelind to
ps Newfoundland—'Vo> age from
Nc«fuundUod to Cotton—> Add reft to Calombiß*
to (he Boftoniaoi, and to Bunker's
from Boston to baitimore—Obfcrvati n« on pafl-
m b Brandyrvine, to Philadelphia—A view
us a >outb iwimming in the river ScUtlkiil an«.
1 porting on ita matgin—Dcfcription us Philadei
p'nu—A fraternal Kcoe— A moral deduced f<on.
<he fraternal scene—Battle 6f the kegs in Phils
dilphi a—Sailing from Philadelphia to Burden
t iwn in a ft age boat—Philaiophical contempla
tion 4rTth refp«d X 6 hulnan happiness—View tl
Turlington and Bristol—A delicate view of a
»uungltdy btthinf iha sylvan pool—Rolanda In
the fcfnre, a tural fcefie—Moral from the diftrtli
or Rolanda—Addreit to Rolanda*a inconftam
fwt«n—'The approach of Winter—A Wintci
Storm—The approach of Spring— A *iew of th«
folarfyftem on a fine summer night—Rural ob
fervatiora— Battle of Trenton—Praise Of Cene
ral Wa&i t^ton— Daphne ard S.trephon, a rtsra
Icenc—Voyage to Charleston, fco«th-Carolina—
Pcicription of Charleston and the Ladies of Ca
rolina---Verfes to a Carolina Lady---Siege o:
Ch.rledon---Addr«fs to Fortune-«*Verfcs fd«
drifted (o a young Centleman at the Chaneftor
Coi rge-Academy--.A fpecimcn of unlimited
(hall be tree, a new song.
# , FOR SALE,'
Thirteen Hundred and Sixty Acrtt
of excellent
Farming tfr Tobacco Land*,
LyiNti m the count) of Aroherft, j a ,b«
•a*i» ol Virgiala, aa one of the priacM
krai.chei of Jamet River, within fix milci of the
Utter, IrolD where hit aavigable for baata of mm
or twelve ioaa burthen—Bef.de. the advantage*
o» tbefc land., for'the farmer or cultivator of to.
u.cco, the> arr fuppoTeJ, from . f mJ || though
locce(»fol ««p»n(B'nt, made by the late colonel
Cbilffell, to L-or.taio an abtiudance of natali,
which, if not of I precioi n <a* hit been even
foppofed) are Certainly of a vKry valuable kind.
The better, however, t.'afc'ert'ain thii fafl, and
place the purcl.afcr on « fife so 'ting, in so ha I- '
aidinii a bttiintfi, ai all those fubterraneoui it
fearchei, without the utmost 'ienlinty of ,a*
abundance of the dtfired ore, it supposed to be.
every reasonable and neceflary aAAance or Indul--
H'nca fc* rendered those inclined to malt* tba
raprrllfiknt, 11 well at every other necefTary
formation given by the Editor of tjiia Iliiue. ia
Philadelphia, 6r
JOfIN NICHOLAS,
Charlortclvllle, Virglhlw
June B,'i7 >3 . 'atrtu
' JuJi Publi/hedy |
And to be Sold at the Odice of tha National"
G «au-, No. 105. MarlteMlreet,
Tha' c*! b- i rd .inl- R,>qk. entitled— /
SURE vihd CERTAIN^ETHOM
of at aining a
LO N 6
he Alt H D y. !l if&
Wntten by
CORfffARO, an Italian Nobleman,
When tie Wat rr'lr tn'H'undttd Yrirt of Age
W»»h a iecumn)cnd4tiyo bv the Hon. Juairlf
Apdison, ( Author of the Spectator) '
i'J the following Words t
was of an in Aim c»a(fitntlM
, aaout forty, when b\ (indily perfift
in the course of life recommended in this lic
tie 000k, he recovered a perfed Aa'e of health»
iniomuch (hat at fourfcor* he |>übtifhed thfa
•e.ifk. He lived to 'give a third and lourth afci* .
tion of ir ; and having pafltd h»s hundredth
ear, died without -pain or agon*, like one who
uls aflerp. The (reatiTe 1 -.oention hai
3ke*l notice bf bv'fevcal eminent authors, and ia
written wi<h fucii a Jpirit jI cheerfulnefs, religion,
nii gooj U nif, as aie the naimai concomitant*
•f temperance and fobvety. The mixture «f
he old mn irt it, Is rather a recommendation
han a oifcrcdit to y." # y
N. B 7oe London edition bat fo'd far 6/6#
Tbs Amtr'uan edition, bandjotntly bound and /##•
/-*/, for yi only. i. a. w. y w*
- ■ *
A FEW CO P/ESOF THE
TRANSACTIONS
Of the Society injtituted tn the Stat* as
New-York, for the promotion of
/VGR.ICULTURK, ARTS, and MANU-t
, FACTURFS,
May be had at this Office*
'[Price half a dollar.3
JUST PUBLISHED.
\nd to be fold by Th om a \ Dob.von, Wil
liam youNG, Rob>?ii Campbell-'
iVK*flr3, Rice and Co. and John M
Culloch, Np. i. NorthThirc-rtreet,*
jk 19 EXAMINA TION of the Iste pro»'
* cctHngs in C'lngrefs refpe&ing the
official co. dust vf tiie Secretary of the
rre?.fury; with i«vatiotM, &c. on '
ipplicat s .on of laanj from Hull nd. negoci
itpd nntler the acts of the 4th and 1 jth ef^
1790 —The priie of the above
jamjjhlct it three tixteenthi of a dollar, or
1 s 4«J. t-2 April 24. 2awtf
>
' i *.
to the Public.
\yHEREAS an astachmentat the luit o/Saa*»
uei 1111' ay and Nathaniel Imlay, esecutora
it the teAameMt and last will of Peter jmlaj, de
: ■ afrd, has illued out of the Supreme C oi
[ udicacure of the rtate of New- Jet fey, apainltjbe
andi of Garret Voorheit, late of the com ty ©r
Middlesex, and Aate afoiefaid,-returnable to tha
lift Tuesday in September, Ceventeen hundred
ind .ninety t*ro Notice ia hereby given to the
aid Girret Voorheis, that jjnleft he appearand
iie special bail to the faii ad -n,
will be entered against hiorv, by default, and the
andt so attached fold for the fatisfachon of such
>f his creditors as (hall appear to be jultly entitled
;o any demand thereon, and fcall apply for that;
vurpofe, according to the form oPthe statute ia
such cait made and provided.
By order of the Court,
April 17. ia*. iy HOWELL.CIk.-'
_' , -——
JUST PUBHSHED.
And ro/bc fold at th/ B k Storea of
Joftlb Crukjlank and Tbtmst aod may
ba had at the Printing offK'f No. *cf, Mar*
ket-Stre^t,—fPrice ear »f a dollar.]
letters,
AddrefleU to the Y*omanry of the
United States:
Containing some Observations on Funding
and Ba><k Syjlems:
Br an AMERICAN FARMER.
ntITID IT
CHILDS and SWAINEi
at TftSft»a9t«ct vol***, moß*iT«ilta
val>A(iirKi4a w