By P. F RENE 4U: (at. No. 209, Market Street) Publi/hed Wednesdays Saturdays, [Three Dollars per annum.]
Numb. 77 of Vol. ll.] WEDNESDAY, July 2+, 1793-
From the Virginia GazettEj
of J. ly it.
HWING been caled from the country
t it ie towns of Richmond and Petert
burg 1 v days since, I could not helj
obieTviug about a half dozen piper deal
ers in ench p ice, with as ma y British
traders a id f. > .<•* am<-fi whoin w<■ re some
ot tne i nolo 1 otl of tlie old tori's,
v.iifp"riii •to each other with 11 iiCna !
earrteiinefs : u, " e qui v I touiid ti
fuujcct w •itii e';:fd their attention gre\
out of foinc at- |'iib i' itions 1 onithepiei:
resetting; the oiiniai conduct ot the? fecre
tary of th ' tieafu ) ; 1 observed too mat
nvtead of co si g'.ft ir whiipers tb ihein
selves, they li.id ( * e> al (to its at their fin
gers eno>; which t • v indiiltrioufly preflec
upon eve v refpectab.e character Irotn tin
country, and related them with an unifor
mity, which mutt necefl inly have been the
effect of previous concert —i remarked tiia 1
they said little reflecting tile actual 60i.a..ci
ot tiie gentleman at the head ot the trea
ifliry department, nml manitefted rather n
ftifpicious anxiety to divert the public at
tention from rhe invettig tionoftiatJubjeS;
add to amine it with some litt e (lories
respecting the characters ot the persons
■who were the real or supposed agents in
bringing the fubjeil into public discussion.
Two topics were particularly prefl'ed. the
one, tnat the motive of enquiry did not
fpringfrom a difinterelted zeal for the pub
lie good, but from perfonat ditlike and a
previ.mfly concerted system of perfecutian
again't the treasury officer; the other, that
Mr. Jefferfon was the scourge of all oppo
sition to the treasury administration, and
tne Jnftigator of theinquirv from its incep
tion to its m itwration. These appearances
wade considerable impressions upon m>
mind, and these (lories smelling rathet
frankly of llander anc! ci malice, I deter-
Ijliine'! to iar; j y myfelf as to the real c<r
fcumltaiii.es which jttended the cOi . ne.ice
jjnent of the erftjHirv, uid which iiave b)
fro me mcj is been carefully kept froai the
jptnlicvie v. I rriveli ice done fo,&< o i.eivt
\trie inform itio i 1 have received fufficient
lty i ite eJting to obtain a place in yout
Oifeftil p |Kr.
' I ci i tot help 'ic!u!g nyfelf. however,
ywith a few j f4to-y m r.cs upon tlu
jru 'j 'ft i ii- ' • tiVlf to me
' nl. i r deal Britifii tra
cers, and i tones, (llould become L
comb; led c n-; ard supporters of tie
preje-it ad -ui i t- Mion of the government
ot ieUi.it ' re , whit 11 profefle to •
tend th,. good > lie vv 1 ole A lericu pf~
fU is a circnni I in. as unnatural as it <
o nitons and n- iat >g.
2d Til the a t .apt to fnppori the
frefent ai •-i i'tratnn oy deception anc
come ilnient, i es i's vicioufhefs
parti ■ lit v. and ou m to invigorate public
Invelligaiion.
3d. Tn it attempting to obflruit the pub
lic enquiry 111 t.o t ie official coudiKt ot the
treasury officer, by f. il ig its attentioi
■with malicious infinuition- against the cha
racters of individuals, i*. an i 'fult upon t t
public iiiiilerliaiidi g ind evidences a cou
fcious baseness i 1 the cau e, which ttoop
to such pitiful artifices.
4-h. T at a co.H'ciou- rectitude is dif
playei! by the opposite party, in d fd-ininj
»li artiti ial expedients, and in calline a loin
to the public, "to attend to the I:tlj (t >]
enquiry itjtlf" and always pointing to the
m.i'.t authentic document data for its in
formation.
sth. Thit applauding an officer for con
cealed deviations from the 1 bvious injunc
tions of the LAW, is subversive of the Jane
lity of its obligations, and inculcates a dan
gerous difaffeclion from the constitution
'.by consenting to a radical revolution in the
government, which in theory, is made ■<
government of LAWS, bun by practice
rendered a government of MEN.
6th. That the idea of pecuniary profit 01
loss to the public, is contemptible, whei
put into competition with the found obli
gation of LAW.—That the officer wlu
disregards this obligation, fubvertsthe con
figured tribunal of decifio .1, and usurps il
legitimate authority—That Inch uftirpa
tion contains in itfelf the eflence of cri
niinality.
I will now furnifli a flatement of fft
eflentially confiding with rhemort accurate
information I have been able to colle£l.
Th t the paper dealert, British trader
and old toric-. of the favours the
receive from the preftnt ndmi'ii/lrari"
and believing tba the\ cat no longer flip
* poi v the o/n uor reuLi tue ot/'ur, thun iliej
are able to cajole and deceive the remain
ing clafles of the community, are constant
ly engaged in fabricating tne moll indecent
falfetfoods : That Philadelphia is the great
centre of concert ; that from the mint
eitablifhed there is ifl'ued all this base conn
terieit coin, which is distributed amongit
their feudatories in every petty town and
. orponition in America ; that the stories in
circulation here were probably cointd in
the fame mint, as they Ikar its appropriate
Uanip-of coiii.tirj.it d bajci tji. Tha:
Mr. JefFetbn is me object 01 the averlion
ot t i- - dSfcriptihiis of men, not because o;
any polliblt o*-j ction to his character a
mail, but becauf of his know 11 regal d so.
Ri PUBLICAMiM tin inviolability oi
la s, a.id eqn < iit \ in the social rights ul
man, ..nil became «>F In pointed retufal tc
become a one. at the v..i ions scrip feall.
which hav -en delicately cook d iij-» an*
up 11 which e scrip . c itry have fa 'tenet:
i m ppfi..gly, ill he remains i <
,« nt(i). T. a; Mr. jeii't i foil h. < a
lines ondli :ed hi'i'frit wrlith. in.) .e
i led delicacy refpefti'.glejiflati*. 1U >; cb
mat ne rarely exp. efl'.d tu opi ion. upon
Uiem, a. d never du i. g their peim ■> bt
fore Congress. Tint h" never difcove c
lie prefumptio : of Milting upon he inlai
.ibiiity of his political opinion.. nor ha» hi
diftruit of the talents or tne i itegrity ot tin
Virginia delegation, been fuffieient at an)
line to juftify the intruliot: of his counsel;
11p<->n their deliberations ; that in (hori, ht
ii..s at all times rigidly observed the valua
ale ft'fib \of attending to his own bufintf:
without intermeddling with that ot others
As to the particular circtimft mte of the en
quiry into the official conduit of the trea
lury officer, it was rather accii entnl that
deligiicJ, and commenced in the foilowm;
:uann «•':
O.i the 20 h of November, 1-92, Mr
Dayton, probably ill conctrt with the Se
cretary of till' Treasury, moved a refolu
1 0:1 for referring to Sim, to report a jlai
for reimbuiling the loan nadeof tile 1> 1 :
of the United States ; that oil the 301(1 o
tne fame .:1011th a report was ni de con
I'oi mably to tie refoiu.ion ; that this ri ■
jo. t was. a % is lifual, r.f. rred to a commit
i f of tlu- whole house fbr exami iati«n
that before it was a ted upo 1 in committee
j motion was made lor discharging tht
committee withoulexann inj>. the übje£t.£,
a refoiution acco vpuiyi <<• tile moti 1 . wa
proposed, that a 'ill be prepared age., bl;
to the Secretary's report — I his n oti-.i, wa
upptifed is containing an unufiial precipit t
tioii, anil not warr .lit., cl by theftateofin
f«. m itioa before tiie house ; but upon tin
{fin ance of tiie mover, that the b 11 wa
thing of eourfe, and required to be paflet
b ie ii 1 of January, 1793 and that tht
fu left iriforinatio 1 lliould accompany tin
bill when rep rt»d, the oppofitiwi wa:
vila» 11, and the motion agreed to —
That .||| was Ih irtly reported, referrec
to a committee of the whole house, anc
was acted up< 1 the- 24:11 t-f December—
I hat 11 the comfe of 1 lie iriveftightionl :
w a inaile ot tne wail! of iufur
iliatoii. wh:cii seemed prttty nbvious
vh.cli w a folios' ed by inotibn from Mr
Pa er—" That the tieaftiry officer be di
reirte o ay brtore the home, an accouni
jfthe application' of the mo des borrow ec
it Antwerp and Aiufterdam," —This refo
iution may be deemed the inception of tilt
tnqmri into the official conduct of the Sc
; eta.y of the treasury ; that onthe2fth oi
:he fame month, another motion tor inter
[nation was offe- ed by Mr. Giles, mori
con prehenlive in its requilitions, and defi
nitive in its objects, but on a cry of ' order,
the (tibjeft being then under debate, the
motion was with-held 'till next
day, and then renewed and carried —For 2
further explanation and corroboration oi
this llatemcnt of facts, I was referred t<
the resolutions before mentioned, the re
port of the Secretary of the Treasury upor
tiie plan for reimbursing the loan of tht
bank of the United States, and a ft etch oi
the di bates of the House of Reprefentativc:
upon that subject, taken front Fenno'.
paper.
From the view of the fubje£t, which thef
papers have presented to my mi. d, 1 ha\t
come to the following conclusions :
1 ft. That the enquiry into the offici 1
ondtift of the Secreiar> of the Treafuri
was casual and no; premeditated, aid ot
eoi rte could not have o iginated in a mo
ve of systematic pt rfecunon.
2d. That Mr. Jefferfon ct uld not have
ieeii tie inftigatcr of that meai'ure, it hav
ing obviously commenced ill the ufuai
cotirfe of debate, and in his ablence.
3d. "1 hat the enquiry commc-nsed upon
tlie firft occafTon which was offered during
the fe3ion, and that this occalioii was not
fotiTli! for, b'tt was offered by the uniform
lupporters of traafury influence.
4th. That in the whole progress of the
bilj v.':iich gave rife to the enquiry, a j J
p?cioui precipitation, isobvioufly difcovei
nble-
jth. That Cortgrefs were debating in
lhe tl k. .it being unknown whethei the
moiK '■ to 1.: diipolVcl of by the biJl undei
confiri ition, was in Europe dr America,
'he exuVit of theprevioufly existing wuho
i icies to borrow, nor the application of the
)oi roived monies which had been expend
ed, il'sr the lituatiou of such as remained
u.iapp;:ed.
6th. That it is not inferable from the
f cretary's report, that tln> borrow ed mo
ley u la; plied, was drawn to America, o.
Any t.iie florin of it.
7th That from the fkctih of debates, it
pei teiv. ble, that it w as then underltoi d
tilt H life of Reprelentatives, that tilt
it! i J in qiieft on Mas borrowed uiidei
,ne . 1 of tin- 4th of Augult 1790, and tin
iertlu aci 01 the nth ot the fame month
.nd Ho id then appropriated to the pay
-11 nt t'f the debt to France, but for cer
: ill] leai-ris lor some time tnyfticall)
-MiLr'.ud, id at length lpari ;gly and re
tut iitiy disclosed tKat its original dellina
: 1 oil had bcenva icU, that tfii variation was
Hot fanclioiled bf th- author.ty of LAW.
.: / i rubabl; aroje from an unfortu
nate mi] calculation, /pri'gi g from a to"
~(,nd indulge .ce if the j ItUiing h pe that the
luktf f BrnnJvjick u,.ud t ,iort.> t/ieteaftn
reti the r *v< red Jta-idard of de/potijm in
'fie hi art of Paris. *
It is here worthy of remark that intht
■ery report made pu-fuant to ilit lalt relo
utiop, this fame fuin o. mone> is thus def
:!'ibet!, "l.hereiidueo: tli funidrawr fori
ippluablg to the purchase of tiie pubio
lebt,'* b» which manoeuvre it becomes
iro'M the art of the fourth
:o the art of the twei.th <>f At gull,
,1 t fabfe .juent report upon antuipat
■ig thi tjuery—Has the money drawn for
jt tii so applied ?it is said no,but it wa *'the
nftriwiiewtality of making purchases," and
T the lalt page (22 ) of the lalt report lipon
he fubj.rt when it is made chargeable lip
jn the unexpended revenue, it is thus de
"cribed, " Bai nte of foreign fund not
",ecii'ly applied and fubjert to difpolitioil:"
trange transformations ot an item of
iigures, which one would have thought
. puble of the most definite and unchangea
jli rtainty.
8 h 1 hat 34 members of the last Cbri
ji.ls a ere found will ng to vote a new so
eign loan for 2,000,000 dollars, to f 5 the
itaif, upon the mere -'ipfe dixit" ot the
[1 tafury olhtcr and without any competent
underftaiidingof the 1 übjecf, that it vc as tht
rnguiar f:ite of the fame proportion, upot
due information reiurtantly furnifhed, tt
meet with an unanimous negative.
1 cannot Accurately eitiniale the advan
tages accruing to the few w ho are favcret
with play ng a hand in the complicatec
games, of pap .>r tricks, of loans, of jobs,
jfb.ll drawings, of prompt difobedienct
of law s, of deception*, &c. &c. But it may
be confidently allerted that the interefi ol
the great bulk of the people will at all
limes be promoted by
FAIR PLAY.
Dinwiddie, July 3, 1793.
* The miscalculation refperting the face
us French affairs and the operations of the
duke of Brunfwick, is slightly hinted at by
the secretary in one of his reports, but
would be ealily urderftood, I am told, by
reference to the official correspondence be
tween the feiretary of thetreafury and Mr.
Short, our agent in Holland, which has
how ever been deemed too precious for the
profane eye of the public.
For the National Gazette.
1 XTR ACT f orn an Or-A t lon deliverer
at Federal Poird, near Philadelphia, ot.
the > OL RTH t/Jui.v, 1793, by > Lt H U
PALMER, citizen of Pen. Jylvwia ; anct
publi\M&by reqtttjl of thnjc who heard it.
Friends c> d fellow citizens!
r pHF ::ge of reason and phiiofophy lias at
length arrived, and begins to illuim
' ate the world ! While that veil of d rk
nefs, which spread itfelf over all nations,
uas faithfully prelers ed by tile picas alii
■ ncc nf Church and Hate, the earth
wore a wretched afpert. and humanity
wept for the niifeiies of man. Butwhei
enlightened rrt 11 began to ex. mine the
tallies of human wretclitdnefe, and by
[Total Numb. 181.J
their efforts had penetrated the secret cor
ruption of royal courts, the pillars of des
potism were fliaken to the foundation.
King-craft and prieft-craft, thoie mighty
enemies to realon and liberty, were ftrucle
>a ith eleath by the genius of 1776. l or fe
ventei-n yearstney have been decaying un
der rhe influence ol a mortal wound, and
now in the lait ltage of their txiftence,
like a drowning man catching at a straw,
»n« more desperate effort is making to pre
i. i e thi r.i irom inevitable deUruction.
But they are fummoncd with a mighty
voiie to the dark abodes of oblivion, "to
which 1 wiili them a speedy and unob
ilrucled p.ff.ge," never more to rife again
Co fcattei mifchief among deluded nations.
In th s vijw of the fubjeft, and consider
ing tne consequences, it is impossible noc
Lo admire the manly firmntfs which didat
;d tl;e declai at,oll of American Independ
;me. "1 hufe bold patriots defeive and
a ill undoubtedly obiain the thinks and
epplaufe of all posterity. how much is it
0 be lamented, that any uhofe names we
ee affixed to that great inftrumsnt, ihould
it this day affoi d good ground of fnfpicion,
.hat iheir political principles are direited
o the total deflruttion oi liberty and equa
lity. But the genius ol liberty is rtsunng
From {lumber, and w ill eventually emanci
pate the world. Beware, ye American
aristocrats! your principles and efforts are
leadingyoutoaprecip.ce, from which the
juit reientment and indignation of an inju
red people will hurl you into eternal infa
-11/. Civil and religious oppression will
not gain much ground in the American
world, tbo' attempts are making to effec
tuate both. If the cause ofFrance, which
s the great caufeof human nature, fliould
uccttd. then farewell kings, aristocrats,
,nd rl.fr"lo::g catali gne of clerical impofi
ious—iivpi ii'ions which have robb'd man
•fhis greatell dignity, and dosed every
lienuc of iude|!i ndent retii ftion. I deed,
liad it not been that the clergy gamed a
con.plete afeerdaiKy ovei the mi: d of
11 en,the civil opp, elhcns o! the w oria v. i.uld
longfince have tumbled into ru'n. But living
0.1 lilt spoils of the people, it was easy li.r
[hc(e impollros 10 preach Up the beai.ty
and excellency of humiliating poverty,
hat they thenfelves might riot upon the
luxuries of the earth. And thus while they
degraded the human iharacfer and fealted
>n the iniquitous profits, they . iclcd ttie
•Iready ti o potpnt arm oi the civil tyrant,
and prepaied eiery living creature for the
irmpli eft fl; very.
J ow lamentable is it, that religion,
wliieh on h' louii e all hearts, fhonld fc;
oft-. 11 be made life of as a cloak for the
jor 'v flion of the greafelt crime . aid by
ihofe vci y men too, w ho have so often im
posed thcmfelve upon the world us f erfons
of si perior fanflity and Virtue. Ido not
mean to inlinliate in this place that there
are not virtuous and upright individuals
amongth.s bedy of men; but, rake their as
n hi e'y, they have done infinite milchief,
a,:d many of then- merit the curses of the
present and all future ages. In jnftice,
bow ever, to the Arneric an 1 lergy. it ought
'o be Obfei ved, that in effefling oiir revo
ution, many of them by their precepts and
rxample afforded great service, and were
:ruly valuable members of the community.
[ wish it could be said at this day, that
none of them affun ed the mysterious car
riage and imaginary dignity of an European
aifliop.*
But the enlightened friends of humanity
may congratulate each other upon a giori
[)lis profpech The empire of reason \vill
soon sweep from off the earth rhis bundle
nf nonfeni'e and oppreflion, and perma
nently fix the attention of the human mind
upon a point eflential to its dignity and
happincls. Already have the two revolu
tions of America and France awakened in
(he inelleftual world anew enemy of
thought, and turn'd the pursuit of man
upon fcientific principle into the p >th of
liberal difci.ffinn. Previous to tl:ile t>i eat
event: —e*. »> unparalleled in the hiOory
nf ages, every 1 ; 11 it of man was tinftur
• il with the despotism of chwih ail(\-flvte.
Scarcely a (ingle art or science cc.uid be
ii:«!e (.endei.tiy v-'.ihout «c«r
tren-bling; at lead it uaifu:
_.
* In the slate of Connefficut tlm
thought generally to have deviaied'
the revolution*! y principles of r-?f
clergy in Connecticut (fays Mr.
hive Hitherto preferred a kind of a..
tieal balance in the very democ::
vernmcnt of that (late ; which har ■
operated as a check upon tha r
/pirn of repiiiiieaK'Jm." [/Herjhow the proof of a-y propofiiion woti'd
jfFcft the power ami influence of chose two
Uoi) (iters, wh ful.jugated tlie eartU in
perpetual bond ;ge. Tiie rights, dignities,
and eflential privileges of the human race
were buried 1:1 the gu ph of royal and cle
rical avarice and deception. But these
d iys of fa,latuifm and oppreffi >n are
vaniflling -»vv y, and the phiiofophy of the
human mind i> making deep refe.irthes, to
(develop* tne nature of til. fe principles,
which will ffo. d a permanent hope to the
wretched i i every p u t of the world.
The cries of million* of innocent fufFer
ers are calling aloud upon reason and phi -
lofojihy to come forth to their aid, and
lead them wi>h a powerful hand to the
land o. light and joy. And it i, a mattei
of unufii.il conf.ilation, that the two great
events, previously meittio ed, have so iar
contributed to ftimiilate railing memo
inveltig ite the principles of nature, as lead,
to ah ipe, that a I itnig lonrte of felicity
may be eltablifhcd to' the gieat lamdy ol
mankind Not nn.ch longer inall fu
p ?t "ioir itn > >11 itcimate the truits o
n i's indu try: Dtit the principles ofgo
vferuine.it, reli j.i > ~ tur.iturc, and in aa:
lhail rcceiv cnat cand d and impartialdif
cnllion, which the nature and importance
of tne leverai fu j s require. Already
£ at iMipi ovemeuts have been made, am
tho'many a e i;i dre itl of innovations, yet
I conceive no good ground ofapprebenlion
has been I'hewn on these lubjects.
I jie phiiofophy 01 thi age teaches the
mod pure & unaoultented morality •, ana
stripping religion o its mysteries and ex
ter.ial trappings, will prefeni it to the view
of the tinman mind in more beautiful ana
attractive charms : so that in every point
of view theft? great political events vvil.
serve to ameliorate tue condition ef the
human r ice.
Abjlraci of Intelligence by the lajl
arrivals, (to May 24.J
London j\lay 10. M. Duniourier has
trmfmitted to the State- General <.f Hol
land the obligations ot fixDutchmerchants
to pay linn 4 000.000 florins, or 35,000!.
as fool as he Hipuld have taken Breda and
Maellrich;. for the purpose of producing a
K voiutioni i the Un ted Prov.nces. Their
offeree in ma d ig such an agreement, and
hi in furrenderi .g it, after he had at
tempted to benefit uy it, are, at least, riv.i
treai heries!
0.-i Sept. 21, 1-92, the Spaniards were
still in pill ill 11 'f No nka bound and
conn:ry, and ihewed o d fpafition to give
it up ; 11 conference of . bicli the Bri
tilh govt rnor t..at had been lent out to
II <e polfelß 11, wa returning home. The
mi nnry cftoofe to put up with this insult
r tier tna i interrupt their pr< sent preject
o conquering France. His majesty, God
V A him. is I iltd ki'ig of France, and why
fliould he not b so in reality ?
The coasts of 1 taly fwafm with French
privateers, whole cruises have already
proved so fuccefsful, that they have very
la ely fen t into Marleilles upwards of 40
Spinilh, Dutch, and British vessels ; molt
ot 1 n with very rich Levant cargoes.
Tlie iaw fu ts relative to the St. f-iuftatia
prizes, taKen by Lord Rodney in the late
American war, are wholly finifhed. A
curl fetms to have attended that affair.
Hio lordlh p died so poor that his body was
buried by public iharity ; and upon divi
sion of tiie nett prize-money to the innu
merable claimant., it appears that each
com non sailor's entitled 10 preci ely one
si.'thing; the bulk of thi- immense pro
perty, to the amount of neariy one million
sterling, has been previously lhared amo g
the vultures of Wellminfter Hall ami
Doctors Commons.
The failures in England since the break
ing out of the present war. are eltimated
so millions sterling, a film exceeding
one half of the current specie of the 811-
ti(h empire.
The Grand Seignior, at Constantinople,
ilTued a proclam ition, enjoining his
fubje£ls to a ft. i£t neutrality in their con
duct tovva ds the powers now at war ; and
to lhew.no m;\rks of p i. tiality in favour of
cue lide or the other !
According to advices from Algiers,peace
will be fp.ee dily re eflablilhed between the
Algerines and the Dutch. Great prepara
tio is are making at Algiers for war, pro
bably to join the league against France.
The following is a letter from Gen. Cuf
tine, to the National Convention,
dated April 28.
" I am informed by a sure communica
tion, that in the sortie tnat took place on
the nth. the Hulfars mdSxov.s (\i fl ain d
conliderable loss near Mentz. but they en
deavored, according to their custom, to
conceal it from lis by carrying oft" their
i<i ad. Our army occup'es an advantageous
■ j >. 111 oil at Weliemen, near Fort St A b 11.
, iuipolfin e to d (lodge them from it.
'■"«vr, ,!~F his po ition prevents the eiirmy from
their trencher before Mentz. On
and 16th they attempted new at
without fuccef«. by their own
they loft 2000 men. They have
|m||A the tSth there was a very fcr'.fk
011 both fides; and another
has just now taken place while I am wri
; ting. Ido not know the ifiue of it, but
the lucctfs of the troops of the Republic
juftiiies the idea I have always had of thi
poll, and I hope that Mentz will be the
grave of the German armies."
Letter from the minister of the French re
public to the Secretary of the United
States of America.
"Philadelphia, Feb. 6. 1793,
Second Year of the Republic
"IN conformity to the orders I have jull
received, 1 am eager to notify to the Go
vernment of the United States, in the
name ot the pfovifionary executive coun
c:i, charged With t le admin ifl rati on of our
government, that the French nation has
co iltituted herfelf a Republic.
" This notification would have been ac
ompanied with irelh credentials, if the
bulij which ought to be eftablilhed 011 thi
head had been finally regulated, and if the
execunye council had not chosen rather
to maniteft, as soon as possible, the refolu
lions taken by the whsle nation, of decla
ring the üboiition of royalty, and the cre
ation of a republic in France. Indepen
dent of the interest which this great deter
mination of a nation, that has given her
concurrence to the defence «.f liberty, and
eflabhfhment o»" Independence, ought to
'inspire here, it will doubJe s also be con
lidered by the United States, a- ; a new
Hedge oi" the close friendihip whi. h fub
filfs between the two nations. In thisper
fuafion, the executive c< until of the
trench Republic has charged me to afl'urt
your government of her difpofitioni, which
are likewise tin fe of my nation, to rivet
the ties of our f. iendfliip with you, and to
multiply bt tween the two nations com
inercial connections of reciprocal utility.
" 1 congratulate myfelf upon being able
totranfmit to you the expreflion of senti
ments in w ich I participate to the utmost
extent,and of which my conduit (hail never
cease to bear an invariable testimony.
(Signed) " TKRNaNT.
Answer of the American Secrctai y of State
to the Officer of the French Ministry.
Philadelphia, Feb. 23, 1793.
SIR,
I HAVE laid before the President of the
United States your notification of the 17th
inHant.il] the name of the provisory exec e
tive council, cha. gt d wilh the adminiflra
(ion of your government, that the French
nation has constituted itle.f into a K pub
lie. The President reciives with gi eat
fatisfaition this attention of the cy vjiti> e
oulicil. and the desire they hive ni niftf
red of making known to us the re.ulu.io;
entered into by the National t on,
even before a definitive regnlatio 1 of then
new eltabliflimcnt cotnd take p ace. Be
?(fured. Sir, that the government ind the
Citizens of the United St.ites v,eu with
the 1110 ft lincere pleaftire, every advance
of your nation toward it* happiriefs,an ob
ject ellentially connected u ith its liberty,
and they conlider the union of principles
and pursuits between our two conntries as
a link which bindsltill closer their interests
and affettions.
We earneflly wifli 011 our part, that
these our mutual iipofitions may be im
proved to mutual good, by eflablifliing our
commercial intercourse on principles as
friendly to natural ri. ht and freedom a;
are thofeof our go"ernmerits.
I am, wilh lincere elleeni and rtfpeft,
Sir, dc. 1 H. JhtFERSUN.
Commonwealth of Mn^achtijetts,
By Hi.- ExcellencyJOHN HANCOCK Efq
uovernor ol .he Coinnioiiweaith of iMaf
fachufetts.
A PROCLAMATION.
WHEREAS the governor of this com
monwealth, has this day been served by
John Brooks. Eq. marlhal of the federal
court of the Lnitcd States, with the fol
lowing w l it, viz.
'• William Vaflal, The President of the
Compl inant, I United States, To
iu equity. I John Hancock Efq
Versus J Governor, and fan,e s
The Common- f* Suliiian Efq Attorney
wealth of as- j Gener los the Com
fachufetts, ! monwealth of Mujfa-
Defendant J ihufctts.
Greeting,
, " FOR certain causes offered before the
flipreme court of the United States, hold
ing pleas in equity, WE command and
Itriitly enjoin yon, that, laying all other
matters aside, and notwithftnnding any ex
enfe, you be and appear on behalf ot the
Commonwealth of Maffacliufetts, before
the! iid Supreme court of iheLnited State:
holding pleas in equity, p'l the jth day of
Augnft next ensuing, at the city of Phila
diljhia. being the fat of government, to
answer concerning those th ngs which fliall
be then and there objected to the said .
Con.monwealth ; ard do further and re
ceive on beh ill of the l.nd Coinnioiiweaith !
w hat the f.iid court (trill have conf'dc; ed
in this behalf; and this you may in uj j
wife omit, under the penalty of four hun
dred collars.
" Witilefs the ,»n. John Jay, F.fq.
Chief Jultice of the Supreme Court
of the United States, at Philadelphia,
the eleventh day of February, in tin
ye;ir of our Lord one thousand seven
hit. id,eel and ninety three, and of the
American Independence the ftven
teenth.
SAMUEL BAYARD.
Clerk of the Supieme Cutot
of the United States.
And Whereas.it being a matter in which
the inhabitants of this free commonwealth
are deeply interested, and which will re
quire the consideration of the general
court, at an earlier time than that to which
th y Hand adj urned :
I h.ive therefore thought fit, by and
with the advice of the council, to convene
the general court, upon Wednesday the
eighteenth diy of September nexir, at 10
o'clock, i. M. and they are accordingly
to meet at th3t time, at the State House in
Boston ; a id all the members of the said
court are required to take notice, and go
vern theiufeives accordingly. And the
'heriffs of the several counties, their under
iheritfs or deputies, and the constables of
the several towns within the fame, are
hereby directed, to cause this proclamation
*.o be forthwith published, and polled with
in their refpetfive precincts.
Given at the Council Chamber in
Boston, this ninth day ot July, in the
year of our Lord one theufand seven
hundred and ninety three, ai d in the
eighteenth year of ihe Independence
ot the United St -.t*es of America.
JO. ;N HANCOCK.
By his Excellency s c nimand,
JOHN AVER\ , juu. Sec'ry.
P H I L A 1) E I.PHI A.
Wednesday. July 24.
Extract from a New Tori Paper.
" The Prefiden.'s late Proclamat.oll ha
put this country, no doubt undefignedly
nn his part, in ail ignominious as well as
dangerous situation. It cannot be denied
that the Britilh are r.ow seizing indifcri
minately every American veilel rhey can
find with French property on b-ard, and,
in the European sea-, prov lion vefl'els de
flintd for the ports of France: that they
will condemn the property the-y so find, is
certain; that they w 'II condemn maiy <r
the veilels too, there can be very little
doubt. What if this Proclamation is found
Jo he their only juftilkatiah"? Can tli-.r.
be then a moment's doubt in thePrefident'
mind that it should be recalled. When
we find the name of the lirft roagiftrate of
our country to the reservation of a fpeci.il
pleader, we know prudence has been
surprized ; and the work is difrefpecUd
becaufo the drift of it i« difcerrted."
ExtraS of a letter from 3oJ2on t ju'y I£.
" Some persons censure governor tian
cock for calling a meeting of the General
Court on the summons ef the Federal
Judge, on the score of its being expensive.
I hel'e are toi if s and enemies to all free
government antl the rights of the people.
But w ho w ere the cau e of this expenl'e ? —
not the Governor or his p oc amatiotl;
but the officers of the federal government
who could have served the.r Mandate at
two different times lince the date of it
i Feb. 11) and at both periods when the
General Court was in feliion, v. hen the
business might have been iletei mi ed with
out extra expense. But setting alide thi;
what are 3, 4, or even io.oco dollars, when
weighed in the scale with the Sovereignty
of the commonwealth of Mafl'achufetts?—
The truth is, the vortex of the federal go
vernment, the funding fyllem, or more
properly the army confifcation ast, has
brctl up a set of men to riot in luxury, on
the hard earnings of the war-worn fol
eiier, and the indulfry of the koncjl mer
chant. and who seem to aim at the defirue
tion of our liberties, either by open aflault,
by bribery and corruption, or by contuling
us with their accnifed schemes. The\
\v ili find us, however, firm, resolute, and
united. Ihe flrong arm of freedom gave
support to the federal conflitution, and the
arm and voice that made it, have power
to amend it , and the sooner ue set 3bout
the work, the better will it be for us,"
Letters from the territory Sctith of the
Ohio fay,' that it is not thought the Spanilh
government have any hand 111 exciting 01
aiding the Indians to depredations on om
frontiers ; but on the contrary, that tit
governor of Louisiana has written to then
to pursue a peaceable line of conduit ; in
consequence of which the Cherokee;,
("reeks, artel some other tribes of Indian
had agreed to pay a visit to
this summer, to fix on the terms of a fub
tfantial peace with the government of the
Uttited States ; or in other words, to re
ceive two or 'three and twenty thousand
doilais, and when those are expende d, take
up the hatchet again to procure a new
treaty.'
Dublin newfpaprrs are received in this
city to the 25th of May ; all of wiiich co, -
roborate :h • accounts of tile fin cef of the
French arms over the combined force .
I he accounts by a Kite arrival from Am
ftcrdam are to the 19th ot May, but no*
newspapers later than io the j6th. Ac
cording to these, in the battles of the lit
and 13th ot March, Saxe had
killed of his army 4 Half officers a;ld 27
others of diltinftion, 937 privates, and 525
horfefc—The wounded were 1 general. H
ftaff, and 80 other officers, 2883 men,
and 330 horfes—prifouers taken by the
French, 20 officers & 25 privates—miffing
43 officers,4oo men, and 12 dozen of horse
J here are 110 free papers 11.»w printed rrt
Aialterdam or any part of Hollai.d. Even
1 lie Leyden Gazette has become a corrupted,
source, every lheet of jvhich, and other
papers, is examined by the Stallholder's
Licencer previous to going to prels. Those
papers mention that the court of Denmark
had refufed to acknowledge Monheur, the
king's brother, as Regent of France.' It v
was also mentioned at Amsterdam, that
the English were negotiating with th
French tor a peace. Upon the whole, sv_
may fairly gather troiH the in onnation re
ceived by Ilie lall veliels, that the Erenci
are much better provided with necessaries,
of every kind, than the combined armies
are. and confeque, tly, they will he able to
make a good Hand agaiirft the petty
princes, with all their dukes, kings, an.)
emperors at their rear; for we don't hear
much of those great heroes expotiilg their
persons, often, in the front of the battle.
The schooner Eagle, of Baltimore, has
been taken by a Bermuda privateer, and
sent as a prize into that island. She was
bound to a port in French H.lpaniola. The
Amci ua:i captain and crew were taken o.t
board the privateer, ironed, and othcrwife
ill treated.
The Proclamationof governor Hancock,
i ifei ted .1) this Ua,i tu.innit excite ii_ilol s
ideas in those who have irom the begin,
ning been inclined to susp ft that tl s
bf. r r tion of tie liate governments laj
k-iig been a matter determined 011 by ccr
tai 1 influential characters i.i this country,
who are aiming gradually at monarchy.
' federal jurilp udence has aimed a mor
tal blow at the sovereignty of the ii.d.v idu
al llates, and the late de«iiion o! the I'u
preme tribunal of the Union has placed
the ridge-pole on the wide extended in -
iric of consolidation. The representatives
of the irec citizens of the independent It. te
of Mallachufetts, will no doubt cherilli tinr
pii it oi jhvelfigation, and rtiiiouHrate o»
.his fi.bject with w ifdora and ftrmnefs." ;
In the borough of Eaflon, Penney!'.'ani?, J
a free negro man. of the pame of (homo-, j
Htrculti, was on the 6th d j tif July infi. S
cholVn town-clerk of that borough, by .1 )
decided majority of votes. —TliUwe men- i
:ion as a proof ot the growing liberality of \
the prelei t age, when virtue and worth j
alone, and not mere colour, or irippery ot' \
1 ank and (plendor, kegin'n to recommend \
a m 111 to piajes of trait and confidence. <
Accounts from Algiers fay. that fh emi- ?
on, endeavors have been lately marie by 'he I
panifli mimiter th: 1 e to pro Uie a p.- e
for Por.togal with the Dty but v.iiho- : ;
effect. tr? in, bow ever, hasmediated more
fuccef fully for j'rnflia ; the terms ;o,(oo
leqnin; (140,000 dollar ).a tribute every two
year , and consolatory prcfeiits. The war
of this piratical State with Por ugal ope
rates much in lavor of America - whene
ver a paace takes place, there will be no
thing to p:-eve:i t tliefe rovers irom i"relt
■ng the Atlantic, and intercepting our Eu
ropean trade. There are many American
c ptives jet in a Hat. ot Uaveiy at aacl
.bout A.gier.', and were it not that they
receive a (mall annual allowance from
Congref , their htuation would be li.toie
rab e. According to a la;e letter front
Algiers, every nation are ransoming their
prisoners, cxcept the Americans, 1110 ft of
whose captives there have been eight ot*
ten years in a Hate of bondage.
Fif:y fail of large Ihips from Cape Fran*
coi.-v. e arrived at Norfolk. Part o! the
wretched inhabitants of the Cape ar
rived, and landed at Norfolk, deflitute of
every thing, -ind depending solely on the
efforts of the public,
T he exports of the United States for the
year ending on the lalt of September, 1792,
anion..ted to the enormous valueoi twenty
million, five hundred and eighteen thoi -
land, and fourteen dollars.—The value os"
goods, wares and ! lerchandizr: exported r
roni each Itate, Hands as follows New.
Hampshire 18 '.407 dollars—MaMsuhufetts
2,889922 dols.—Rhode-ICa d 698 084
dols. —Connetticut 749.925 dols.—New-
Vork 2,528.085 dols. — New Jersey 23 524..
lols. —Pem.fylvania 3,820.<46 dols.—.!'e
.aware '35.97- dol.%.—Maryland 2,550.258.
lols —Virginia 3.540.4! 9 dols.— North-
Jarolina 503,294 dols.—South t>ro!ina
2,430,4 5 dols.—Georgia 458,973 dols.—
Total, dollars 20,518,014. T'"" nroA a
inount of duties, lor the difteit.nt iiates,
thus : New-Ham;.lhi;e 7,677 dols.
and 35 cents—MailachtifVtti- 151.2/17 dols.
96 cents Rhode*) fh d c.ol . 53
ents—Couneflicut so. 074 dol> f 5 cents.
New-'Vork 161,483 dols. 90 cent —New-
Jerl'cT 2,186 dols. 20 cenu—.P.iiflfyivauitk
158,291 d'i. . ai ten:Oelawaie 6,705
d 0.4. 59 cents —Maryland 60.557 doii. 7ccn'r—Virgin'i 14' 215 :o! ■ ) rents —N.
u 20,097 ilu.j. 5 --'.1:— i. Carolina
90,671 dols. 93 cent;— Georgia 8,089 dols.
41 cents —Total gross amount of duties.
853, 189 dols. 55 cents. — Total nect amount
of duties 789,073-
T"tal amount of Tonnage and Tonnage
Money, paid on foreign and home vc.flcis
in the fever jI llates.
New-Hampshire 3.726 tons—2Bl dols.
20 cents. MaHachufetts 47.569 tons—4,
9C4 dols. 30 cents. Rhode 5,728 ton —
473 dols. 54 ccnis Connecticut 8,305 ton
1,083 dols. 41 cents. New-York 26,051,,
to 1, —7,508 dols. 23 cents. New-Jerfe>
2,083 tons —125 dols. 1 cent. Pennfylva
ji 23,551 tons—4, 800 dols. 81 cents. De
ia vare 771 tons —16 dols. 8 cents. Ma
ryland 17.945 ton —3,423 dols. 48 cents.
V ugin'u 30,043 t0n5—9,397 do.s. 62 cents.
North-Carolina 9,149 tons —1,707 dol.s.
cents. South-Carolina 15.201 tons —4 543
dols. 30 cents. Georgia 5,085 tons—l,B:s
dols. 97 cents Toialamount of foreign
aud domestic tonnage, 195,2 15 tons —ditto
tonnage money, 40,360 dols. 56 cents and
an liaif.
We learnby a vessel from Port a Pais,
i.i French Hilpanialt, that the Spaniards
from S -11 Oomingo, taking advantage o
tile troubles at the Cape, had taken Fort
iXuiphi 1 (.1 lil.ie to the vveftward of
Monte Chrifto). The gtrrifon being 50
men, defended it bravely, but were ;u
lengta obliged to fnrrender to fuperloi
n rubers. We are informed by the fan.,
vellels that about one ton th of the tow
at tile Cape it Hill Handing ; the coinmilli
o ier - were about one mile from the ciiy,
TTinch in want of ammunition, three ma
gazines having blown up during the con
flagration.
An Eigliihfrigate of 36 guns is carried
into Cape Franceis, prize to the America,
a French 74 : Another 74 and a 44 gun
llnp lay at the C ape the 2 - h of June, to
protc:c such veflels as were i:ot ready to
go to lea.
Accounts are received from New Provi
dence, by way of Charieiton, that a French
fleet of considerable force had fallen in
with the Britilh outward bound fleets for
the East and Well Indies, sometime about
the latter e(id of May, off Cape Finifterre,
sni Spain, and captured one hundred aid
flxty fail, then under convoy of two men
of war and four frigates, the principal
convoy having left them in a more north
ern latitude. This news was confirmed
bv tie arrival of a F e icli frigate at the
Cape :n 35 days from Breft.a'lo by accounts
from Jamaica, and irom another quarter.
T'»e f.'.'op Alexander Hamilton on her
from Aux Cayes to Baltimore (an
American v°(Tel) was taken and carried
into New Prov.dence—the cargo ordered
to be landed as French property ; the vefiel
given u,j and lince arrived at Charleston.
Several other veflels have very lately been
carried into Providence ( the old nelt of
pirates) and treated in the fame manner.
Many of the veflels are detained, excluiire
of their cargoes.
A Freuch Eift India {hip with a rich
cargo, hai atrived in Long island found.
Havi 1; spoken a vefTe! before the arrived
in the European latitudes, nad finding war
hid been declared (he altered her course
for North America.
O 1 Monday the 24th of June, being the
anniverf.iry of St. Jotiii the Baptist, the
Brethren of Lodjje No. 10. of ancient
York Mafofis i;iet at Georgetown in Suf
fer county and State of Delaware, alfc
several viliting Brethren, to commemorate
said feflival, where thegreateft order and
decorum was obfe Ved—A sermon suitable
to occafioi wasdelivered by our Rev. Bro
ther Phillip Hughs : — Brother David Hall
was 011 that day installed as worlhipful
Master of said Lodge. —On the fubfequen:
day theßreth:en ittended the burial oi
Brother Jaquez Seift, who was unfortun
ately dro vned in attempting to land from
on board the (hip Indultry Capt. Caffin ;
a sermon adopted to the oecalion was de
livered by the Rev. Brother above menti
oned.
The brig Georgia Packet, Burrowes, ant
the schooner Peggy, packets in the Charles
ton trade, that left this place in May ant 1
June last, did not reach the bar, the for
mer till about fix weeks from her leaving
the C ipes of Delaware; the litter, 21
days; a strong foutliweft wind blowing the
whole time without intermiflion. and the
current fetting3 or 4 knots north-ealtware
dire&ly againlt them.
The French fleet that is said to have cap
tured the 160 fail of Britilh merchantmen
oil" Cape Finifterre,is mentiooed in anothei
paper to have confiHed of 9 fail of the line,
several frigates, aud a number of large pri
vateers of from 24 to 36 guns.—A let
ter from the Havanna to .1 merchant in
Charlellon. confirms the fame news; it
was generally believed in Charleston,
when the last veflels left there.
" Tin? Americans (fays a Jamaica papir)
seem to be in a state of preparation for
war The fortifying and arming of the
harbour of Charleston by the executive of
Sonth-Carolina indicates a fearof hoililiiies
—with whom ?— have the Indians a «:» ?>"
[No—but there are that have ]
Tf;aiericau brig Setfey, Capt. Gierke,
bound from St. Bartholomew to Ham
burs'i, witli Dutch property aril one pas
iVng.r, \va ; c.ri: uivd by a French privateer
polacre, the !--a,is Culotte of N ntz. o'-
the VVeflern Ifiantfs The pafl'enger is faicl
to be a Swede, and was kept p'rifolter on
board the privateer. Captai i Clarke was
allowed to (lav with his brig. Ic isltip
pofed the cargo will be condemned. C ipt.
Ci.irke came to town 011 Monday J alt —
Tlie prize -,vas at Mu# Fort, and the pri
vateer coming tip the river after her. —The
privateer Sans Calotte, o! Nantz. has also
captured the ..hip Flora, of Glafgo\V, bound
to Antigua, worth jo.ocol. fttrling ; also
a Bremen brig and a brig.
A vefiel in 20 dars from Poi t-au- Prince,
brings no intelligence of the capture of
Tort Dauphin by the Spaniards, as men
tioned above.
The Pennsylvania and Maryland canal
committees have b..d a meeting and paritcl
several refolnriens for the incorporation ot
companies for the, pnrpofe of opening
:he navigation of the Sufquehanna from
Wright's Ferry to the Maryland line, and
for conneSing the De 1 aware and Cnefa
seke bays by a navigable canal.
Extra?! of a letter from Dullin, dpril 23.
" Nothing but calamity i before lis it
s fnppofed wav will soon be declared
i»ainff A • erica by the crowned heao that
are now againfl France. ("his may be
only a supposition of the j eo >le, and yet it
seems more than probable it will be the
: afe. 11 appears in a lit le time emigration
inuft be (lopped, or I beluve halt of the
people would go to America. Lilt week
when I was in Belfaft. no leG than five
failures took place one of them for 50,c001,
a cotton m iniitacfnri g company. This
.me failure has thrown 300 men out oi
employ."
We have it in our power to give a direst
;niurati::t! on of the Eig'.iih accounts of the
japture of Natitzby 1 lie Bi irta ly ir.ftirgents.
—The privtcer Sails Culottes sos ()
France) left that city on he 28th ot Apr 11,
ivhen fnch aneve.it was not even feared,
:>r Thought of. The F. Mi d <te of its
capture was 011 the 24 h.
Accounts sri 111 New Providence fay, that
a number of Jamaica ships, huiiieuarrl
sound, have been captured by the French
frigate, La Concorde.
The Britifli news, ptiblilhcd in wiwfl of
lie American newspapers, ha: zo.coc
r'reneh had perished 1: ar Majenc® i- p f
tng the Rhine, to escape the_ purfirt of iht
?nemy, appears to be totally void ■f 1 ni
dation.
Gen. Wayrre, with the forces under hi'
command had arrived at Fort Walhi igton
before the 27th of June. All expectation
af a treaty with the savages in that q.i uter
tvere given up, and the commander in chief
latl difp 'tched nil expref: to the President
as the United States, soliciting orders for
jffeafive operations.
This day, we are informed, comes on the
:rial of Captains Singleterry and Henfield,
for entering and serving 011 board the
t'rencn privateer Citizen Genet.
[Of the French jacobrrs. ]
The Jacobins of Paris have been the fub
jeftdfmuch ignorant abuse. The (imple
fact and history is this : Early in the pro
/refs of the French revolution, a number
if patriotic societies were formed at dif
ferent places and under different appellati
ons, todifcufs the pontics of the day, and
propagate the principles of general liberty
One oi these societies, called the Friend - of
the constitution, becoming numerous, rent
ed a part of the old convent of the Jaco
bins, at Paris, for the purpose of their
meetings. The difcuflions that took place
there, and the occalional publication: ifllied
from thence, attracted the public attention
Co strongly, and co-incided so well with
the sentiments of the people, that the con
ffitutional society at the Jacobins soon be
came the largest and most important of the
patriotic societies of France ; and similar
corresponding meetings, under the fame
appellation of Friends to the Conliilutio'i.
w ere formed ill most of the principal towns
of the kingdom. The Jacobins, therefore
(as they are called from the places of meet
ing of the Parilian society) confifl of a
large part of the French people, a decisive
proof of their merit, and a full reply to the
calumnies of their enemies. Mr. Fd
nuind Burke has been pleased to call their
traitors and regicides. 111 the comxnoi:
acceptation of those w'ords the aflertion
cannot be true. The society of the Jaco
bins exercise no public function : they are
not officers of shite, legislative, executive,
or judicial; they have no public trust im
poled on them, and they do nothing but
debate political subjects, and now and then
direct the publication of a political dif
conrfe. As individuals, they ,\re like the
component parrs of all other htimhnfoci
(.ties, good, and bad, and indifferent; but
if the good did not greatly preponderate,
they never would have experienced the
support of their fellow citizens, as they
have done ; nor would they have become
the objects of hatred and dread, to the des
potic governments of their European
neighbours."
i he following gentlemen are proposed
a: candidates for governor of Pennsylvania,
at the entering election, viz. William Find
iey, T nomas M itli-n, F. A. Muhlenberg,
ar.it William Bradford.
We hear that governor Simcoe, of Up
per Canada, lias refufed the United States
ieave to transport provilioiis thro' his go
vernment to fnpport the Indian treat) ,
but has promised to furtiifli all (hall be
wanted, without any cxpente to the United
State-. (" TimeoDauaoj etdonafersr.tes.}
By the Sally, Captain Egger, from Cap.
Francois, which file left the 4 [ h of July, we
learn, that at that time about one fourth of
the town remained (tandirg, but entirely
:le(Vrted by the white inhabitants, \\ ho hao
fled in every direction, to avoid the melan
h ily scene. A few negroes remained,
who were employed in burying the dead.
The Conimiffioners Santhonax and Polve
el remained nt Aude du Cap. a small dif
cance from the town, attended by the niu
attoes. negroes and other adherents. The
rotrniiffidners had ifl'ued orders to one ot
the mulatto generals to oifarm all the
whites, as it was supposed peace could not
>e restored to the itl.ind until they were de
lved of all power of iuterfe: ing with the
.ommifiToners, whose expref bulinefs was
:o enforce the decree of the Convention o'
trance, granting certain privileges to the
People 61 colour.
On the 27th of June a fire broke out at
Auguita, in Georgia, which did damage,
t was supposed, to the amount ol 30001
heir currency. Seven or eight houfei
ere deHroyed, a number ot llores and out
loufes, but fortunately 110 lives 1011, altho'
he tire broke out ibout midnight.
We learn from New Providence, that
T \ ;ral privateers have been fitted out oi
that port, and that two or three ot them
are said to be the property ofthat immacu
late character, captain Kidnapper, alia;
lord Dunmorc, whose 11 oral character and
political honefly are too well known
Co need any encomium.—Thr-te privateers
ve are inionned, have carried into New
Providence twenty-two (ail of Americar
veflells, nioft of them belonging to the
southern Stares --among which are, tlie
John, ot Norfolk ; Robert, oi Portsmouth ;
Governor Pinckney, o Charleston ; Alex
under Hamilton, and Pi e, ofjalr.es river;
and a fctiooiier of Baltimore. T liefe vet
IVI and their cargoes were moflly libelled
— uiel as trie D—i fits judge, littie justice 01
. quity can be expected in the course oi
.cir trial. We may therefore concludt
hat mod of them have been condemned
&c the proceeds 110 doubt pocketed bymajol
Curij'ie. captain Kidnapper, a"d the rett 01
the fable crew- [Virginia paper.
We learn that the number of inhabitant:
Df Cape Francois, lately arrived 111 (ilie
fapeake-bay. amounts to near 40C0. Thi
at jounts already given to tl.e public ot th<
ilillreffes of these unfortunate pe >ple, hav<
not been exaggerated 01 peihaps equallec
to their situation—and renders an exertioi
to relieve their present wants indispensa
bly necellary. Ditto ]
In Great-Britain the sums levied annually
for public pnrpofes, amount at present to;
funi not lets than twenty five millions o;
pound': ftcrling. The income of his ma
jelly George the third, which has been re
jarded as not more than necessary for the
maintenance of Kingly dignity, may be rec
ko ed, one way or other, at twelve hun
dred tho: sand pound- yearly. Stppofinj
the average price oi i b"ur to be a fliillinj
a day throughout Great-Britain, hi." ma
jefly's expences confnme the perpetual dai
iy labour of above sixty thouland men.
Yesterday arriv ed here the (hip Flora, ol
Glasgow, bound to Jamaica, and prize tc
the French privateer Sans Culottes. She
is said to have a cargo on board worth
30 000 l sterling ; alfoher prize, brig Betsey.
The French privateer Little Democrat,
nf 14 guns, is no V cruising off the Capes of
Delaware. It is said the L'Ambufcade is to
take a Italian off the Chefapeke.
Extratt of a letter from New-York, dated
Friday morning, July 19.
"News of this day is, that a privateer
winch failed from Boston for Cape Fran
cois to get a French commiflion, on her
way thither took an English (liip, which
was retaken and with the privateer carri
ed into Halifax by a Britifn cruiser, and
the privateer's crew hanged."
Ancient Apologue, ;ot inapplicable to cir
cum/lances of the prejent period:
Once upon a time the il.eep entered into
alliance with the dogs, for their protection
again!! the wolves. The consequence was,
that the fhecp remained in fafety;—The
wolves de-filled from their attacks and all
was peace.
After a time the U'olves found means to
persuade the flieep that the dogs were a
useless burden and a needless expence. The
dogs w ere difmifil-d and the wolves fel,
npoH the flieep and devoured them.
[From a Country Printer. ]
11 Some allowance is ever to be made tc
court writers and court printers on the
f:ore of rank aid htgh connexion. The tot
of the federal government being ftrikingh
monarchical, its writers will of course as
sume something in that way. Hence, the
peculiar llyle of arrogance and infolen,
menace frequently observable in their new f
paper lucubrations, which if it does no:
prove there men ot jprudtnee renders ii
highly probable that most of tfi?m }>
been put in goal heart with the profpeft i
a treajnry luncheon.—ln one or two lat&
papers of your city (not to mention Fede
' Gazette ol June 15) a fort of unusual
threatening language has been held forth
ajiainft the Jibe 1 1> of the profs, with ***-
*****, and hints to certain editors noi:
to adn.it ftriciures upon certain great cha
racters, or ******* —Can it pofiibly
be that these gentlemen, (if their hints are
flighted) ir.eaft to bear clown upc-n us with
tlitir pijleretoes, their mucklt -w bangers,
olazi g-irous, crab-iticks, bfunder-bludge
obs, and cutteati de cheeses !—! Gentlemen
court writer , the American editors oi free
republican papers, k cw their duty ; and
******* to the m .11 or nitn that dare
to interrupt thcni in the execution of it I*
Parody, for the 14th of July.
[}Vr ttcn by a Lady. J
IRI-NCHMEN, this glorious day, this
hallowed ground
Shall never be forgot ; to the Bastille,
i heftiteo) freedom,Gallia's Tons {hall come
ihail tread w here heroes and where patri
ots trod,
To? orfhip as ihey walk !
The day of freedom now begins to dawn,
Ked in its rife, heaven opens : ano behold
1 l-.ff hours of glory and tin morn of MEN
ik °i the globe. Ait asra new,
1 nc J jit or ages now begins to roll,
lie 1 eign of Liberty. The Goddef* conies
own irom high heaven; her garments
dy d in blood :
The sword refui ent in her lifted hand.
She looks: a iu'fixes, 11 vei to remove,
her waving bannei o't. the G lie lai.d.
1 he guardian oi the gic.bc, Die gi\ cs
the law :
She calls the winds, rhe \\ ird . obey her call,
-i-nt >eartiieih(i der of her po,v eto bunt
er the aftonill.ed slaves, and cai i y late
i o Kings, to tyrants, ai.d set free the \\ odd.
T1 ?.y e l *J e Grecian or th' Roman name,
Unlike the great destroyers of tne glc.b,%
s>ne tights and conquers in her own great
cause.
her song of viflory the nation? (ing :
Her triumphs are the triumphs of man
kind !
i French 1 l.ci) y :■ . luinued ireni our last.]]
£ Jonathan Pindare.
S\? U ;1 Jonathan !je vondrai, te conaitre
Mcritcr par mesfons, dc rappeller frere .-odfin-
Heureux de me trouver a cote d'ungrar.d ma ; tre'
Et courir avec lui dan see noble chemin. '
Temnii), ta cirquieme Odo,» avec fa metaphore
Dont la male ' eaute, pe>nt le grand en petit
rots, que je la relis, et la rclis encote
U plus je la parcours, plus j'y trouve d cfpri;.
Vllle et niille fentiers nous conduifcrt a Rome
I our mn j'aime le court, et je vais fans facon,'
I on feul trait, si je puis, je terraffe nion homme,
Quand les hoireurs du crime, en di. ent fa raifjbn.
Lc milliers de grands ir.ots, dont ton difco.rs
abonde
Ne faura'cnt • obten ; r, ni grate? n> dr.urenrs,
' c n efl pasmatin, qui n* 1 niorrl p - ctgrortcle;
Qui pent flcchir le tonde cc deux impoflcurs.
it veus dire a K—. cettr groiTe barrique,
Moin f, ite pour i'elpri: qu'a regor ■; rde vin,
Qu pour mieux si tu veux I, mblahle an dome ique,
Qui mange tout le jour, et du loir au matin.
Qu' attends tu d'un cochon, dont la guole afiamee
1 t'b ie et son devoir, et la force tit iceu ,
fe lais ce qu' autre fois en dit la ftcnomee
Sur la maifon : de briq-ue.... a present i son
honnu«jr.
Forgerons de Vulcain, deites infernales !
Foudre du Vatican....Brunlwick, Arnold,
' iV] ourier,
Auriez vous pu former, par vos noi es ca bales
L : n monftre corrupteur.ou unplus fourbe Ella.'.er;
siie ne l eft H— envers 1 efpece humaine
-rphelins delai es ct vous, veuves, en plcurs,
i de vosmaux cuiffants, fentez toute la gene '
.et ambitieux, imputez leurs horrcurs.
II feroit difficile de trouver clans la
loelielyrique, tant des anciens que clans
.elle des modernes, ou meme ceux qni out
esplusjurtes pretentions au premier rang
le cette partie de la literature, vingt hint
.■ers anffi jolis, auffi bienfait. et qtii don
ie.it une idee auffi claire du fujet comir.e en
es trouve dans 1' ode ?n queflion.
| Les confeils fuivis de cetce fcavatite
3ete in rent la cause de la perte de la bat
raille de Germantovvn.
t II eft t;-es protive qu'il donne fo'uvent
ra parole cl honneur, et qu'il manque de
meme com me ila manque de foumettreles
■auvages.
Wants Employment,
* SINGLE M.-.N w, ' , ', , ,
A , . . a-g3od hand,
.nd is thoroughlj with bee
keeping, accounts, c o r r ef nderce, & c . His
. Qivity, sobriety, and fijelit, can be proved bv a
recommendation from a claifical House of this
,-it>, b> »hnm he was lately cnmloced—Or, he
would be glad to meet with fomr accommocl., i„,
in any part of the country within the United
Stares. Enquire of the Editor of the Nation.
G,2-tte, at No. 209, Maiket Street.
N.K. No one need apply except he really want
a pcrlon of the above defciiplion.
PhiladelphiarJ ;w Penn'yl«»nia Militia Law.
£'Continued from our lajl J
_ Article 5. Every Gene al C n Ma
tml lhail co.difl of t irteen in ;b' ■$ oil
of whom (hall be coram ffioned offic r B ,
and of iuch iank as lie c t fe ni v wirre,"
and these thirteen fh d' choose Prch ■ 1
out of their number, who lhall be act.
officer.
Article 6 Ev >vy Regimental Coup
Marital shall be comp •! dot five member
2J commissioned office 3 who are to
c'.oofe one of t <ir m mbers a Preside it,
not under the rank ot a C ptain.
Article 7. In any Gmrt Martial, not
Jets than two thirds of the members mril
agree in ev.ry* f ntence for inflicting a :y
punishment, ot erwife tne person ciiarg
cd (hall be acquitted.
Article 8. The Prefictent of each and
every Court Martial, whe her general or
regimental, fhali require a l witneffis, in
order to the trial of offenders, to declare,
on oath or affirmation, that the evidence
they (hall give, is the tut: , the whole
truth, and nothing but the truth, a d the
members of a!l such courts, (hall take an
oath or affirmation, which the President
is required io administer to them, that
they will give judgment with impar
tiality.
Article 9. ? 11 members of any Militia,
«11 nefT.s in any cafe, before a
(. art Martial, who fh-dl refufe to at end
and gm vidence, shall be censured or
si-cd at the disci ion of the court.
Article 10, No 1 fucer or p-'vatc man,
charged with tr~nfgr ffi :g these
ru' , (h ; 1 b • fuffered to do duti ir the
, 1 r:. ent, company or troop to which lie
'' : . Until h. lias had his trial by a
C art Mirtiai, ant! every peso:, so charg
«'■ - lie as 10011 „s a C u t Mai
lt.: en conve.ii ,;tlv b ■■■fleir.hlcd.
Ait ■le it. If a.y offi v rr or priva e
man. It. ,J1 hi-.k himfelf injured by his
L': ;:eii tCI >n 1 or the commanding
oificer of i:ie regiment, and fh.i'l upon due
ap.> cation made to him, be refuf d re
del , ... : y complain to the B..gi ier
Gener. I, whj shall dire ft the 1 fpeftor of
the br,.t summon : G neral Court
Martial, that jullice m,.y be di'fnt.
Arricie 12. If ny r. fe or officer *or
private man, f all think In.; lelf injured by
lus Captain or other superior in the regi
ment, troop or company to wh ch he be-
Jong?, he n,ay complain to the comman l
ing offi' er of the rei*l«ient, who dial 1
funimon a Regimental Court Martial, for
doing juitice according to the nature ol
the cafe
Article Ij. No penalty (hall be in
fl flsd at the discretion of a Court Mar
ti 1, otticr than degrading, cafhit ring ot
fining.
Article 14. The comnaandinsr officer
of the Militia for the time being, (hal
have full power of pardoning or mitigat
ing any censures or penalties ordered tc
be i ./lifted on any private or non-com
iniffioned officer, for the breach of any
of these article , by a G neral Court Mar
ti; 1 , and every offender convicted as afore
said by anv Regimental Court Mar:ial,
may be pardoned, or have the pen.lt
miligated I y the Lieutenant Colonel 01
commanding 1 ffitcr of the re ; r ie t, ex.
cepti'ig only where fr.ch censures or pe
nal i s are directed as satis attion for in
juries received by one officer or private
mar. from another but in c fe of officers
fuc 1 fentenc to be approved by the Coin
minder in Cnvf or the near It general
officer of thi MiHtia,who •re refnectiv y
empowered to p <don or miti, ;e fuel
sentence, or disapprove of ihc fame.
Article 15. I he Mi tin on the dsvs
of exercise, may be detai .el underarms, in
<lt- y on the fie!! any time not exceedi y
fix hour*, provided they are not kep.
above three h.-.nrs under arms at ar.y on.
time, without allowing th. m a proper
time to refr. Hi themselves*
Article 16 No con.p,'try or regiment
shall meet at a tavein on anyof the days of
exercise, nor (hall march to any tavern be
fore th.y are difcharg.d, and any person
■who fliall bring any kind of spirituous
liquors to such place of training, fh iil
forfeit such liquors o brought, for the ule
of the poor belonging to the ward, dif
trift, or townfliip, where such offender
lives.
Article 17. All fines that /hall be in
curred by any breach of these rule, shall
fc. paid iiito the hands of the oi
the hri-;ades to wh: h the offenders be"
'ong, or to fitch other erfon or persons .is
he (hail appoint and make k jown in
general or brigade orders, as I is agents
»r at ortiies to receive the sim , within
hree they become due ; but
' 1 cafe ot neglect or refufal 'o pay any of
lie (id fines, the laid Inipeftor fhsil
■us, the fame to be collected and levied
i: manne herein after mentioned.
ir'itleiß The Rul sos Difcipl ne ap
proved and efbiblilhed by Congress in their
'•tf .uiMin of the twenty-ninth day o:
one th jufand seven hundred and
.-vrrity-nine, ih ill be the rules of discipline
to be obfervd hy the Militia throughout
-hie Hate; exi-ept such deviations from said
rules, as .n.iy e ren deicd necessary hy the
rcq ifitions of this '.'t, or some other un
• voidable circum an eit fliall be the dut j
if the commanding officer, at ' very mas
ter, whether by tegiinent or single com
pany, to cause the M itia to be exercifec
and trained, agreeably to the laid ruLs Oi
discipline.
Article 19. The Mi'itia of tl is flat;
whilst in ihe actual service of the Unitec
Scate-, (hall be fu'.jett to the fin riles
and egulat.ons as the fe eral army, pro
'•'.'dtd that upon any transgression or of
lence of a militia man, whether offi er oi
private, against the rules and regulation
of the federal army, the cause shall be triec
and determined by a Court Martial o
i e Militia of this state, and that it fnal
he in the power of the Governor, or ir
-ale of his absence, or of the commanding
officer of tl e Militia, to mitigate fu pen..
>r pardon any punilhment to which anj
mlitia man may be sentenced byaganeia
C 11 rt M.rtiai.
tudtion XXV. yfnd be it fur: her enaHec.
by the authority afurefaid, That no civi
process fliall ue served on any commiflion
ed, non commifTioned officer or private, al
an\ regimental review or training . f am
rompany, or wli:!; going to or returning
from the place of such review or trainin .
Section XXVI. And be it jurihtr enutlec
'jy the author ':■/afortjaid, That for the pui
pole of collecting : nd levying the lines
hat flii.ll be incurred as well for non-at
:e dance on days of exercie, as for ne
left of performing tours of duty, and a si:
til such si es as lha 1 be impof-d by Courts
Mati.tl, on peifons belonging to the 1
efpeftive briga'es, i- fh.--.1l and miy he
awful for the several Brigade-Infpeft rs,
:o appoint o e or more proper perfo-ts b l ,
tvrrran-, under their refpeftive nands ard
Seals, to be 'oMeftorst of the said fines,
arid the said C lefti.rs, by v.rtue of the
f id wa rants, shall be authorised and em
powered to call on every delinquent that
Tiall in the litis to be lurnifhed
te> them by the f.id I' fpeftors, and de
mand payment of th f1 id fines, and of
ive per centum on the ?incunt thereof,
for their tiouble in c hetn g the fame ;
und on negleCt or r. f• 1, lot such payment,
■ hen the fob C ji. t■ s ft Ilnr ' i-ed to
vy the said fi-es with r. lis eq al to
ihofi receive;! I y c..nlt«b'.-« r.r ,TuTs in
similar cases, by iltr f» 111 -p: vjfable and
lale of the offenders goods .id chatties,
ands and tenements, in lik n.an;.er, and
nith hk" effect as 'l.e C lectors of taxe;
Tijy or can do, by virtue of any law 01
aws of this C"i-:nonwe J:h : Provided.
1 :.ar in the cafe o fe.'ftire if lands or ten
-1 ments, the fame rot ice fliall be given pre
tit.us to the. sale thereof, as is required ii
.-a'e of 1 nd fold Vy a fheriff, by virtue ol
i w it f v nditioni exponas, ar d no pro
:efs shall issue, to flay the execution ol
nch warrant, unless in the cafe of the
eifure of real elates: Provided always.
rh 't if any perf)') (hall think himfelf ag-
I reve i in the leizureofhis lands and ten
li e its, he may enter an appeal before the
judges of the next Court of Common
Pleas, for he proper county, and on the
parties giving fufficient security, within
ifteen days next after any lands or tene
meuts fliall b seized or dirt rained as afore
hid, to pr .fecute such appea 1 with effect,
the Judges fh 11 receive the fame, and flay
further p.-octfs, and the said Judges dial!
return every such appeal on the firit day
of the text term, and the ourt fliad di
rest a trial by jury of the county, as in
caf.-s of debt, whofc verdict shall be fina'
and conclulive, and exept in extraordi
nary cases, of w .ich the Court shall judge,
all such appeals fliall be tried at the te-m
to which such returns (hall be made :
Provided also, That in cafe real estates be
told as afotefaid, such sale fliall be made
Ly the fheriff of the county, who (1 all
make a fufficient deed so the fame ; and
ii any Colk&ur appuinted by any Bri^de
!>>fpt:..icr as arorand liav'njy accept
e<i of llls appointment, shall refute or ne
g.edi to perform his duly, he fliall for
every fnch offence forfeit and pav, 'hr
d:fcr tion of the Courts of QMrt r Scf
iions of tne Pec., within lht? Common
wealth, any ium nut ex. eeding for.y
dollars.
[7*o Ic concluded in our ««I.]
THIS D 1Y IS PUi LISHiD,
By MATHEW CAREY
Nji Jli>, Market Sustt,
Emb»lli(h rdwith a MAP of Sou'h Amrric
N,.vii Of . NEW SYSTEM Q MGDERf.
GEOGRAPHY.
OR, A GEuGRrtPHtCAL, HiS > ORICAL,
AND COMMERCIAL GRAMMAR;
And prefeut State of the Several
KINGDOMS OF THE WORLD.
CON TAJNING
[. The figures, motions, and distances of the pla
nets, according to the Newtonian fyftemano
the latest observation
U. A general view ot tiie earth considered a? a
p'anet ; wifth several ufeful defi
nitions an« problems.
111. The grand oivifion of the globe into land;
and water, continents and islands.
IV. The fituat.On and extent ot empires, king
doms, rtates, provinces, and colonies.
V. Their climates, air, foil, vegetabe produ&i
ons, metals, minerals, natural curiosities, leas,
rivers, ba s, capes, promontories, and lakes.
VI. The birds and oeafts peculiar to e&ch countrv.
VII. Oblervations on the changes that have been
any where observed upon the face of- nature
fitice rhe mod early periods of hilrory.
Vi iI. The history ara origin of nations j their
forms of government, religion, laws, revenues,
taxes, naval and military itrength.
IX. The genius, manners, cu£loms, and habit:
of the people.
X. Their language, learning, arts, sciences, ma
aufaftures, and commerce.
XI. The chief cities, ftruttures, ruins, and ar
tificial curiosities.
XI.. Tne longitude, latitude, bearings, and dif
taacesofthe principal places from Philadelphia
TO WIIICH ARE ADDED.
I. A Geographical Index, with the names, ant
places alphabetically arranged.
11. A Tat-if of the Coint o< all Nations, and thei
value in Englilh M< nt\.
111. A Chronological 'Table of remaikable events
from the Creation to the present Time.
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE> F.fq.
The Agronomical oy James i • .RS
To ivh:cb bane been added,
The late Dilcove, ies ol Dr. Heiichel, and othe
eminent Aflronomirs.
I The firjl American edition, correfiedf improved
and greatly enlarged,
I he publisher of this woi k, thankful for the pat
»ge with which he has. been honored, sub
mils the prefeut number to the infpe&ion o
his lel.cw citizens, and lajs before them
l'he terms ol publication :
I. This geography /hall bv.- pubiifhed in fortv
tight weekly numbers, each containing twin
y four pages of letter press.
11. 1 me course of the publication will be de
livered .he lollowing jnaps ;
j* Ihe wond. 2. Europe. 3. Sweden, Den
maik, Norway, and Finland. 4. Ruflia. 5
>t nd. 6. England and Wales. 7. Ireland
• Fran.e 9 Svc U iea ro ny
iia'. aid F nc Nerhrr'ands. 11. Gem.any.
Sw zeriand. 13 Po'a- 14. Spain an :
Portoga. 15. lea.. . j6 Turk' , m Europr.
Alia. 10. China. 19. Hindoftan. 20. At.
ca» 2J. North America. 22. Britilli Ame
*ica. 23 Well-Indies. 24. South America.
2.5 Planiiphfere of the ea-th. *26. Countiie:
lound the north pole. *27 Discoveries madi
l>v Captains and Cie ke. *28. New.
lamplhire. *29. Maflachufetts. *30. Con
edicut. *3!. Rhode Island. Vermont,
133 New-yo k- *34. New-Jei fey. *35
t'linfylvania ana Delaware. *36. Maryland,
37. Virginia. *38. Nerth-Carolina. *39
S »uth Caiolina. *40. Georgia. *41* Tn
Si here. *42. Ihe Copermcan fv(ltm.
N. B. A 1 the maps marked tfith stars art
,r ded to this edition, cxdufive ol t-hofe in tl.<
jft London edition*
That m disappointment may arise from sub
r bers ej pedbng what the publifhf r neither pro
nifes nor is .b;c to perfo m, he gives this carl
i; explicit notice, that to tome cf the Mates it wil,
>c impoflible for him te give maps fully accuratt.
1 iate surveys having been made j and it is hard.
, necefTarv to observe, that it falis not W.thn
us plan to go to the excenfe of lurveys. scut '1
very inflance, he will avail limlelfof the beji
materials extant : ai d such corr< ftions and adai
ions as his utmost e-xertions can procure, lhai.
e made.
ill. The geography of the United States is un
< c taken by gentlen.en of lite ary abilities, whe
have engaged to give a more lull and fatisfado
ry account of it than was ever pubiifhed ]
will extend to 250 or 300 pages, although ii
the Britifii edition, and even in that of 1/92
it makes oi l) about 30.
V. Should the w rk exceed forty-eight num
tbefurplas will be delivered gratis to the
fubfcriLers.
V. The price of ea<h number will be a quartej
dollar, to be j or del.very.
I. Such fubferibers as do not choose to receivt
the work in nurai rs, are to pay thiee dollar
at the time < f lubfcribing.
The pr nter, aiixious to render this work ai
perfect m the aature of it will all. w, most ear
peflK requefl-5, that such gentlemen, throughout
the Uniteo Sta!es, as have it in their power, will
urnifh him with fluumen's for corredting rhe
I tit erro:* in the of America, and foi
r ;rr:ftiinf a m-re romylete fyllem of geography
*■ an J• a •• u, •en '.
ih tip tobic- :ber*s aamee with
h" sec. unt <t the Newtonian lylten , tic Ac.
Vil be t iven in II e 47th and 48,k numbe.s.
N. B. ihe In f uers, anu the public in
>1 a.e -ttj dto nfider the following very
n lerial 1 t *>li. 11aj c--~ ine Leo don ouaito edi
'? fold *>"•> (0 rilieen dm rs, a though it
nt.,in< 15 n,..| nd places, anr. the t t3i
r.ph I ~ Uimtu ft ..as las ben bferved
"ove, on I jb it 30 y„ e—v. i .teas, Ca s
c> "" Wl ' <"«iain 42 n-apa'anr. plat a i have
hundred pa st e r pr ,fc more. Ano it
"<• d not be bit ve - rh t t c f fv enteen maps to
■e --'lie ■ are of 1, Sl , (e tc America
1 ?r ' han t' el sln on 1 i.es.
lon will j ,ly with .(j il f. rce o the let.tr preft
011 • ns.
The maps will be publiflird in such order nf
ucceilion ss hey ate engraved, and directions w 1
•e p inted for the propei manner ot placing them
• ••e book binder.
Twenty-five Dollars Reward.
RAN away liotn the lublcuber, in Newtona
the evening of the sth mfta: t, a Ne f .o man
oaii.ea SOLOMON, abwut five feet two or thtee
inches high, yellow comple*i-n, speaks p.od
fcngh/h, can lead well, and i» an aflivr smart
fellow—had on and toe k With him, 3 new wool'
nat, linfey tull'd coat, f,ndry veils, on- striped
'attern not made up, fuftian overalls, new /hoes
ind sundry others not here alsertained Whoever
will /ecu re the above mentioned n(; o in any
lail, so that the owner gets him 'again (hall have
c ab °" reward and all leafonab e char :ea, by
~ JOHN DEWITT.
Newton, SulTe* County, New Jerley,
J uU 6 >'9V ' 4 t law
TO IHE PUBLIC.
W f ' ERKAS an at:jc hmentat the suit of Snm
" Imley and Nathaniel Imlay, executrs
)t the teltament and lift ,11 „f Peter Imlay, de
j-.afed, has illued out of the Suoreme C .urt of
Judicature of the 'la-e of New f,,fe>, i|.M the
aods of Garret Voorheis, late us ..lie county of
VI jdlelex, an: ftat, a.'.refaid, returnable to the
nf! Tuesday in Septe.nbfcventeen hunrrtd
md ninety tw Notice is h reby given to the
laid Gariet Vooih-isj that unlets he appear and
file Ipecial bail to the fait a&ion, judgment
Will be entered agaitrft him, by default, and the
lands so attached /old for the latin r a'.ti Oil ,1 such
it his creditors as (hall ap, ear to be julll. e\titled
to any demand thereon, and lhali ap Us.. chat
purpose, according to toe form ol the itaiute in
such cafe made and ptovi ed.
Bv order of *the Court,
Apr.l 17. iaw. iy HOWELL,CIk.
Ten Dollars Reward.
RAN away fmm the (übferib r n tre ifih
HHHor June Ijfl, a n aporrntice lad 3tamc4-
|U 'LPH CURTJS, bv trade a house carpenter,
boat 19 )ears of age. j seer 9 inche; hi f i, ~
left h inoed, li nt brown hair, full faced ; had
"! wllcn he w ß"t away a brown broadcloth coat,
Aith metal buttons, striped co t~l waift t ,.,.t,
•nd hnmefpun linen trowfer;, col.ure.. Who.
will take up said apprentice, and Iccuie h m
m jail, so that his maftermay get nim aaaith
■>r ..ring him lume, /hall receive the above ,e
- and leafonaole charges paid by
WILLIAM COOKE.
Borden town, July 6, 1,93. lm ,„
JUST PUBLISHED
And to be fold at the refpedivc B k Sto-es of
Jof'pb Crukjl:ar.lt and Tbimas DsbJ'or, ai d may
be tiad at the I'r.oting affiee, N- . icq, Mar
ket-Street 1 p,„, one tifhrb nf a dollar. 1
LETTER S,
Atldreffed to the YeoMansy of the
United States:
containing some OLife viitions 011 Funding
and Bank Sy lews:
By an AMERICAN I MER.
Shrew (bury and Philadelphia
S T AGE.
T'TE shrew/bury a.d Hmlafelphia ftage^
w ill e-ommenee to ■un regt 1 rly, v n rhurf
lay he fourth of July, to leav Philadelphia on
hat day,_ ast r which -im-, d iring the month
>t July, 1- w l start from M'Kea.i aridVanEm-
lAhaif ai Philadelphia (the next wharf be- '
OT Arch H-tt) on every Sunday and Wednef
lay & proceed to Bordenton—the land fta»e to
roceed on the next m .rning to Edington ° and
:j return on every Tuesday and Friday. In the
nonth of August, it wi• I leave Pnila'd Ipl.iaon
very Sunday and Thursday, and return on every
Tut-fdav and Saturday.
Fare for Pjfieogers from Philadelphia
toEdinntn - - two dollars &an half.
For goods d.tto - ditto pr. cwt. ~n e dollar
VAN EMRURG & M'KEAN.
SAMUEL FORMAN!
Dordenton June 29, 1793.
For ireightor passage, apply to the mailers on
board, or to
M'KEAN & VAN EMBURCH
Who have for f a i f as „J ua / at thf j r ftorcs fa
vba t, pork, hams, fl„ur, lard, butter, e and
india . meal, cheef;, bar iron &c. See.
I uly 7.
J ; * I aw. 2mi
PRINTED BY
CHILDS and SWAIN E.
AT THSik »FFICE N0»209, HIGH-iTRKIt,
fiEAR FIFTH-STRIET,
THILADILfHIAI