r. FRENEAU t (at No. 209, Market Street) Publijhcd Wednesdays and Saturdays, [Three Dollars per annum.-]
Numb. 88 of Vol. I!.] S A T U R D A Y, August 31, 1793.
Cape-Francois, S'th July, 1793,
2d year of the French republic.
The Civil Commissaries of the French re
public, to citizen Mangotu it. confuJ from
the republic aforefaid, to the fuuthern
date's oi' America.
WE have read i'l the Sti>\ and in tht
chn-lejlon Daily Advert if sr. ot-thc
i:ki lime, 1793, an account, lhair.efully
!;Jfc-ue, of the proceedings .it Port-311
We are ton murti occupied with
otner b'. ,r nef.' to writ* a full detail of these
proceedings; but here follows a datemsnt
of the principal fatts, which we deiy your
emigrants to deny.
ilt. The town of P<>rt-aii-Prince, and
the parish of La Croix tie Bouquets, until
then enemies, formed a coalition, and in
vited, in the public papers tlle '4 pariflies
of the Wt ltern"Province so fend, each ol
them, two deputies to a federal aflembly,
for the purpose of deliberating ' upon tilt
new order of things which the events r!
the 10th of August had occasioned.-' U;-oh
or AjainJt is the f inie thing : for whpev-e:
l.as the right of deliberating upon, has o!
conference the right ol deliberating a
2d. A proclamation of Polvsre', one < 1
us, made this projrrt prove abortive,—tht
federal afiemb'y did not take place.
3d. Two or three d'ays after the slave:
of La Croix de Bouqif- ts were put into r
{late of revolt, and the m dl'acre and con
flagration were commences! by thatcla!
of citizens who were sworn to niaimai.
the decree of the 4t.11 of April, 1 793-
4th. The reduction of Poft-au-Prince.
the confi leinent of Hanus de Jumecourt,
and the flight of Borel, chief of the re
volters of Port-au-Prince, were fufficiem
causes for us to force all tlv insurgent flave
of La Croix de Bouquets to return to then
duty without any elFulion of blood.
sth. Borel and his accomplices ha*e
» quitted the colony, loaded with gold and
bills of exchange. Where have they taken
refuse? At Jamaica. You will observe,
that the declaration of war againll Eng
land was then known all over the colony
for more than three weeks.
6th. The letters of Borel, and the other
fugitives that accompanied him (which
have fallen into our hands) prove that the;
were sent to Jim u a for no other purpose
than to return to the colonies with all the
Britiih sea and land forces—they prove
that after having concerted their fscrc-i
plans at Jam area, they hoped to appear a
gain in force within lix weeks, upon oui
coalls ; but that the retufal of the paymenl
of the bills upon Lindo and other mer
chants of Jamaica, which they carri- d wit!
them, would disconcert their project anc
weaken their hopes of the fuccefa of the
invasion.
The disastrous events of the Cap?, art
no doubt dill much more mifreprcfented.
inasmuch as those who were ths greatell
culprits mall be now with you, and as the
more grievous and evident their crimes art
—the greater mult be their elfurts to leac
aflrsy the public opinion.
We were occupied in restoring ordei
and public tranquility in the wed and ii:
tb» fonth, when Galbaud arrived at the
Cape.
In our absence lie wanted precipitate!)
to take upon himfelf tin- onice of governor,
although the executive council velted i-r
us alone the power of making him knowi
ns such to the people. He caused his coin
million of governor to be publilhed an<
proftife!y circulated over all the colony
agreeably to the usage of ancient depots.
Louis tlieXlVth, or Soiiman, or Ferdi
jiand the Catholic.
In his firft proclamation, he fought on!)
to deflroy the credit of France, by an ex
pggerated picture of the facrifices vhicl
the republic had made in order to conver
her aflignats into dollars.
At the fame time he exerted all thi
force of his enmity against 11s, in Lis j)ri
vate conversations ; and whi 1d he did him
felf remain behind the ciirtain h# 111 de hi
brothei Cezar Galbaud (a>inan equally in
solent ard brutal, but nevertheless as great
V n coward as himfelf) the oftcnfible charac
ti riu forwarding his evil designs ; he pio
jiiifed the convoy tliat tliev fliorldfail with
out etir consent, and contrary to the order
prescribed by the executive council.
He aik-mbled ali the incorporated b-fdie;
cf the Cape, and. there summoned all the
American merchants ; he founded the a
larin at the town of the Cape ; lie greatly
alarmed even the intendant of the marine
himfelf.bv representing our urgent necellity
afld want of resources. It Was very so
lemn'y declared ia this avF-'mbly, that the
town of the Cape was in great wane ot all
kinds of provitluns, although the event has
proved that it was fujjplied with more than
fu&cicnt for one month., It was then well
known that the service could not be fup
porte I by any other means, than by draw
in* bills of exchange u;>on the treifury of
tin.* republic, which Galbaud began tosry
tl uv i ; he even went a* far as to declare,
th it, even w'itii the wtliflance ot bills on
France, the public service could ."lot, with
out a miracle, be long supported, although
we then had at our difpoial to the amount
of from thirty to forty millions o! livres
worth of colonial produce, belonging to
the republic, which was -iiiortiy to come
into our hands.
We at length arrived, and Galbaud, bv
the reception He received from the citi
z;ns, perceived that his influence and cre
dit was less than he expelled. The day
after our arrival, we h id an interview and
explanation with him in. the presence of the
inteudant of marine ; we told him, in the
firft place, that CezarGalbaud. his brother,
from his conduct and conversations, could
not remain in the colony. 2d. That he
was hunfelf, by law, excluded from t ie
government of St. Domingo, in confe
queuce of the decree oi the 4th of April,
which !;as deprived all ttvofefrom any hand
in the administration of the colony, who
held pofi'effions in it, ants that decree had
not yet been repealed. The day after lie
declared to ;i in ivritinp', that he wifliet!
us to apply to him that decree of exclufi
-011 ; and laid, he was too m ich an enthu
fl irt in the cause of liberty, and too much
of a republican not to obey our order and
requisition.
He had the fatisfaSion L-> demanded ,
for ue declared he could not be governor
of St. Domingo, and we accordingly
forthwith deprived him of that office to al.
intents and purposes, and Tent him 011
board of the armed transport yeflel cat
led La Normande.
It was in this stage of the business that,
in concert with admirals Cambis and Cer
.:y, he put the sailer; of the r<= petite io ?.
[fate of revolt; be was declared governor
-ommandaut ot the sea and land forces,
ind caused the vefi'els of the republic to b'e
drawn up agaiuft the town of the Cape.
He, with the arined crews of the veflels,
m ide a defevnt and took poflrffion ot the
arsenal ; he directed the who e of his ar
tillery and mufquetry against the house in
which we were lodged ; he set fire to the
town, and reduced three-fourths of it to
a.-hcS ; he set the example both of pillage
and of cowaidice.
On bis retreat he caused all the cannon
to be spiked. and threw into the sea all the
warlike ltorev ai d ammunition belonging
to the arsenal.
It was not till after this horrible expe
dition that he si t off, witn the ships Jupitei
andL'Eole, the frigates La Surveillante.Ls
Concorde, and La Piecieufe, the (loop o)
war the Favorite, and the Cert and Ls
Manche tenders, together with all the
merchant veflds that were then in the
road of the Cape. It appears ;hat La Con
corde has fmce lett them, but we know
not what became of her.
Galbaud has cost the town of the Cape,
or France, by this conflagration, ten hun
dred millions of livres ; and more than
[ixty millions to France, if the convoy and
its escort ihould fail into the hands of the
enemy. '
There remain with tis in the colony
airly the Americaof 74 guns, three frigates,
[>ne of which is out of service, their crew s,
me troops well habituated to the climate,
and 60,c00 revolted (lave*., devoted to the
Spaniards and the cause of kings; and ne
vertheless, \\e;ire far from despairing of
he public cause. We ■- e nt/t fallen, and
the republic thall triumph as long as we can
Hand.
We reqtiett you to publish the foregoing
[lateinent of fact:, and you do it under our
lignatures and guarantee.
(Signed)
PQLVEREL & SANTHONAX.
NUMBER 11.
" Though led to the Land of Promise,
by the hand of God, —the If. aelites wither!
to return to the Fiefli Pots of Egypt, and
to their former Captivity."
rpHE Jew?, who had been accnflomed to
-* the bondage of the Egyptians, and their
manner of living, quitted Inch habits with
reluctance and regret; and it cannot be
denitfd, that we Americans, have but Wo
nearly so.lowed them in disposition. The
mo'.t iniplacahle war of devastation and
cruelty, .or seven years, did but suspend
the h'.biu and planners of the Englifit a
niong our citizens ; and though compelled
to a political reparation, pur taste and dif
potition remains unaltered, Tho' France
wooed us to her bofosi, we returned iin
mediately to the diflempered and rotten
breath of an unnatural mother, <vlißfe
hatred and brutality could not wean us—
whole corruption pleased our taste..——
While I lament this natural weakness in
the nation, which cannot be concealed, 1
inuft reprobate our legislators and govern
ors, whose duty it was to have corrected
its general influence. The moment we
no longer wanted the aid of France, our
'.'.oveniun, meanly, and of course ineffec
tually, paid their court to the government
of Great-Britain, intrigues in our enn
grefs, which would have chfgraced the
ilaves of despotism in Europe, marked
•heir daily proceedings—every state eon
tending who mould have til? honor of fend
ng a i..i. t -Iter to our new friends -.private
meeting*.—secret management —mutual ac
:ominoili ions and connivance, atiaft made
np the arrangement —4ad though they <si.>
lot name tlif ablell, they sent the vainej}
man of; ' the thirteen confederated [fates.
The remnant of our dying ciedit was ex
iiaufted support this dignified peribnage
in magnificence and (liow, til! it became
too degrading tp be continued. ' The reft
r>f the acts of his reign, and all that he did,
they are not written in the Chronicles of
the king* of Judah.'
Act's of the Britifli parliament succeeded
thick Upon each other ; all acls of implied,
jr dirett injury, to this country; import
int ports with-heid, tliQugh solemnly re
inquilhed by treaties, undifpnted de
mand*, refufed payment,—all accompanied
with unexampled contempt, and nnqualT
-sed hanghtinefs ; yet, to this hour, have
jni" agents, in whom *ve trulf our honour
and interests, filled theirpockets with these
irritatin / indignities, which the Gentoos
jf Inc!• ■ * in, or the broken-hearted defcau
'.iiits iifMunteznina, would and mull have
•efented.
To tl.is Hour, it may be remarked— Pitch
Vems our infatuation for tfiis old hag of
:ontamin*tion and leprosy : that all the
vealth we acquire, and surplus of all our
nduftry, is poured into her lap—(upports
ler rank and consequence—without which
he would iniiantly fall into indigcnce,
ivretehednefs, and consumption.
I saw, and lamented, at the close ftf the
ivar, the dangerous consequences of Eng
ifh faihions apd Englifli habits. We im
port their vices wiih their baubles, their
chicanery,with their laws, and their pride,
with their politic*. Their principles, and
heir manners, pervade the feat of govern
ment. the bench of.juftice, and the politer
circles.
Many of our Convention, whoformed the
Conttiuition, were hardy enough, to re
commend a kinjr, a houfi} of lords, and a
bench of bilhops,
Some of our judges have, on a late occa
sion, inltrucled our juries in the courtly
(tyle of Jefi'eries. Our principal ladies
require prcedence & rank—hint distinctions
nf taniiiy, and drink their tea at an Englifli
hour.
I regret the negligence of our Conventi
t>n; they ought to have ordained a Herald's
office ; who knows but it might have
Ihown the of n house of peers;
The very lift of the oid Bailey would have
gone great length?, and cut deeply into
the line of our anctftry.
Perhaps 1 owe an apology to the mi
nister of the French republic, for having
drawn a melancholy picture for his con
templation ; but he wiil pardon me for
having ilated I'aP.s. He must expect the
g. eat men in office, as coid to the inte
rclls of his nation, as they are to those
honest, but negiefcled patriots among us,
who bore the burthen in the heat ot the
day ; their buflnefs is t.o secure the good
will of the rich, who came in at the ele
venth hour. What are the murmurs ol
disbanded soldiers, compared to the ffiiiles
of those who have got their pay. They
must linger in the fliades of ictirement,
tili the drum beats them upon their lege.
He will have the •
him ; their God i 3 their interell ; itocJ<s
recede, like the sensitive plant, at th-.
most distant approach of danger. The
merchant is against him : for he wifhe
high freights, and low insurance.
The clergy are enlilled against him : for
to them enquiry is a dangerous enemy, ant)
philofapoj 1 the king of terrors.
[Total Numb. 192 J
But to halanre all these, yon have, c'ti<
zen Minifler, three-fourths of the virtu
ous and untainted Yeomenry of these
stater, who ((hough hitherto they have fat
peaceably under the Tree of Liberty,
which they have planted fry their courage,
which they have watered with tjieir tears,
and which they will, if neceff.uy, itonrilh
with their blood) will not hrfitate a mo
ment, if called upon, to unite
to their beloved brethren ofFrance against
every hated and malignant clefpot of the
universe. When the Lion ruareth, the
beads of the field tremble; when the
brave & hardy foils of 1775, unsheathed the
Iword, these little drawing-room gentry —
levee hunters, fpecnlators, and excisemen,
who now pester these growing dates about
the importance and mystery ofgoverninent,
will immediately (ink into their original
inlignificance ; then the honed old general
will recognize the poor, but \ irtuoui com
panions of his glory; he will feci more
solid comfort iji one moment, from be
holding the facetofthefe defenders of their
country, than he ever received fiom all
the grinning attendants of his triflirg, odi
mis, and difgulling levees, for these
many years.
My firft w ilh is, honourable peace; if it
:annot be preserved without honour, it
rannot be lading. Had I access to the
President of these dates, I would advise
lim to call upon the delegates of the na
iou inltantlj. Had I a voice among them,
[ would prepare for war, as the only
ure means to avoid it.
Aug. 28. ' KAMLET.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTI.
\tOTIIING can equal the insolence rf
some iiewfpaper efl'ayifts, buttheflu
}itUty of'( ertiiin individuals, who cannot
jerceive the snare that is laid for them.
Dili* administrators of government, confi
dently secure behind that veil of lecrecy
hat covers the multitude of diplomatic
"111s,enter into party feuds, not with a visw
jt aliening the rights of tiie people, but 10
"npport the malk which is beginning to fall
"rom their faces. Is this a proper (lyle of
reaiment for the people of America; or
lo they mean by the propagation of falfe
eports, fabricated in their offices, and
liffeminated by their creatures, to fnip
ivreck us on one rock, while they pretend
o inftru£t us how to avoid another?
111 this manner are the common pfoplf
jfEnglard and Ireland tampered with —
By fucli debasing means a corrupted Britilli
niniilry, not capable of supporting their
irecnriuus exidence any other way than
jy diverting the public attention from their
nefarious proceedings, have involved Eng
mdina foreign war, in order to burlt
sfunder those infant friendly connections ~
ivh'reh were beginning to take place under
:he auspices of Liberty, end to unite two
neighbouring nations in the bondsof peace
ind amity. Such were the deps they took
:o render a war with France popular, and
:o liir up Englifli fubje&s, now become U fa
brutal than of old, to drink with avidity the
jiuod of the French ! —From whence arises
:b sudden a change in the fliort space of
:wo years?— How is it,-that we fee the
very men, who could not find exprefiions
SufficientlyJervile to atidrefs the late king
jf France, now treating with so much in
dignity the people ofFrance ? French
men ! our generous friends, our brave al
lies ! —'tis almost to no purpose to tell you,
that it would be fruitlefs for you to look
['or friends amongst th? Americans. I
am alrnoft tempted to fay, You have none !
Th« friendlhip of your quondam king,
Louis tiie lalt, was an ineffable favour
to our heretofore great men; but what
have they now to look for from a nation
who have no crowns to give ? They are
aspiring to reign ! —What have they to ex®,
peitfrom a nation that offers.neither rib
bons, titles, rank, grandeur, or prece
dence ? The court of France, supporting
the great men of America by her pow- y
erful arm, would have led them to royalty,
in spite of ir—but alas ! their dearefl hope?,
their fondeft expe£tations hi've fallen to
the ground with Capers head, victims lo
the llroke*>f the unfeeling guillotine 1
Time has been, when a religious relpeft
was attached to the perlon and charafler
of an ambaflador : a charge of the lead
difrefpett towards Hi moli Christian Ala
ie/ty's euvov, would have been deemed
fufficient cause to difmifj an imprudent offi
cer from place. But then, my dear coun
trymen, the molt gracious fevereign ofTrance he!<l up to the't- enraptured eyes,
in the not distant perfpeftive of futurity, a
brilliant, a rav.iibi is>; crown—so captivating
a crown! which, far, better than die vul
gar 1 mrel, bejljived by the*people, would
have nodded over the mijsltic
eye-brows of-cne weli-borii ot th- United
!
Wrapped a}>in this vifton, they
were 1 forward to the acco/nplilU
ment of their glorious scheme, wnde the
•' fwinilh multitude". enbraced the mere
lhadow of independency.
Ye b.ife calumniator-, of that people, who
yiii vjh.it y*u are, how ca 1 ye, tor a
moment-, suppose t-jat thecitizens ot Ame
rica are so far degenerated "as to pals cArer the
hiltory of your corruptions, withqut no
ticing them ? You have the wenknefs to
fuppbfe that your dark intrigues will ever
remain unferutinized. Miltake not, how
ever ; they wkl'kuow them will uot fufter
it—they will pull off the remnants of a
tattered mask, aid present a likenefs —the
image of yonrfeives —a picture, that, line
the fabled head ofMedufa, shall chill your
fouls with horror at the refeiriblauce.
But why is it that you endeavor to avert
your eyes from the real injuries we sustain
— why -are you purposely mifco-nftruing,
and emhitteiiilg the minds of the unin
formed againlt the pure tokens of friend
ship ottered by the gredteft power oiieartJi.'
In wh it inllaivce has the French nation in
jured America? Was it they *tha:kindled tlu
periodical torch'- oi war a -d burnt to alhe?.
the new raised cot-nges cr our unfortunatt
brethren in the weflern \vlicit rnefs ? Wert
those Ueltrjiitive poignanb, that annually
spill the b'iood of our frontier inhabitants,
forged in France ? Ivit France that ex
cites the blobd-thirfty Creek Indian u
deeds of horror and unqualified murder
does (i-.e influence the sanguinary confede
ration of Miami ? Tl.efe are the real
■wrongs that ought to kindle your refent
jnent. If you had the interefls of youi
country at heart, as much as you pretend,
why not cry oat aloud againfi TfcePu uic
faith of Great B.itain, the country thai
now ho'ds i.i her hands the very keys oi
our fecurity---Why not raise your voice
figainlt the (li.iaiefnl yoke imposed upon
these lt.ites ay the vile, dejenerate Span
iard, who squeezes a merciless excif'e iron
.an infant branch of our profperity—*why ft
im te oil so material a part ot our interelf .
Avh re ".rant ofpowr to resent, certain >
cannot be the motive for acquiescing ir
their repeated infringements?
But li. t in turn our eyes to another quar
ter. a id we (hall observe a like pnfiUanimi
ty of conduct Forty American velfeli am.
at this moment det: ined in F.arbadoes -
I'jfty have been carried in, and treated a:
captured bottoms, at Jamaica. A fleet oi
them are lyi"g in that, -v/orte 'than i urk
j'h Algiers -->f America, 'the iiland ot We v. -
providence, lfby the laws of nations, at
enemy's propeity is feizable on boaic
neutral veifels, the vessel is hy no means tc:
be involved ill the seizure. Well I our (hip
are notwithstanding (fill under detention,
our Tailors fmpi ifoned, in irons, or farcet
to turn pirates upon the commerce oftneit
country—Our fllperrargoes have been
dragged on board the vefiels of the Britifl
lea "tyrants, tied hands and feet, and the
very Spaniard, (who would believe it ?)
extorts from our captains an equivalent in
money, for every (hot-he illegally difcharg,es
at their vefleH ; in this, at once aiiing the
part of arobbtr and an afi'aflin.
An Twer me, ye who delight in spreading
among us that discordant spirit, the traits
of vv Inch appear on every countenance, are
you not negociating at this moment with
the Britiih and SpanHh courts, in order tu
obtain Iroin one what/lie of right ewes to
us-, and from the other a certain grant,
which by the laws of nations .{being our cvjh
property) we *-:/ght not to Jo icitasa favourr
But is it one of the clause» of this rumouret
compact, that America is to become a par
ty in that violent hatred of George the jd,
againlt the French nation, and a participa
ter in the fanatical turpitude of Charlec
the 3d, in his conduit towards the fame
power ? This is, indeed, a new fort ofpo
licy whieh forfakes and infuits an old
friend, in order to ceurt the friendlhip oi
thieves and robbers. If we descend to
purchase the advantages just mentioned by
such infamous conduit, I ranee it iseert3iu,
■will with her returning tide ot profperitv,
despise our advances. If honor was the
iimple criterion of our conduit, we fhoukl
have refrained offering injury to France till
ilie wai in a situation to resent it—We
'*e\ze the gloomy hour of her misfortune
to dishonour and affront her ! According
to my conception ot things, nothing is (o
base and dastardly as to insult even a fal
len enemy. What sentence, then, will
impartial pofteriry pronounce upon Ame
rica, should they read in her iftoricannal ,
that Ihe insulted anunfortunate friend?Ko
language could afford an expreflion to cha
raiterize such a degree of national baseness.
Except among the ancient Perfnns, a law
never exilted to punilli inflances of irigra
titude between man and man —but in the
process of human affairs, we find, fron
the long records of antiquity, that national
ingratitude (be the cause what it may) is
rarely or never fuffered to puss without
severe, and signal reprehension from Him,
that is the fupreine and abloiiite disposer
of all eve.nts.
Aug 28.
For the National Gazette.
Fellow Citizeni cf Pennjylvahia,
t*7HILE you have been watching the ad
*'• infiltration of tiie i'occieral govern
ment, with a vigilance in the highest degree
jealous and ftifpicious, as if your liberties
were alone vulnerable from that quarter,
you appear to be perfectly indifferent to a
late open and daring violation of your con
ftnirtion by your it-ate legislature. As ii
tyranny in « fniall ft-tte, was not more for
midable a;id oppressive and conl'eqneritly
more to be guarded against, than in a large
onr. The truth is, tuat both the general
and (late governnu r.t ought equally to
lliaTi our attention. While you are wrang
ling about the interpretation ot treaties
and the conduit of the ambassadors.you
are incouliderately and absurdly (uflerinj
vonr own constitution to be trampled upon
with impunity and unconcern : and yci
vour constitution is the only security (u:i
---lc! < a civil war be expeitcd) you have a
iramlt the horrible inroads of defpotilm.
By the Bth article ot your excellent con
stitution the members ot the general af
(Vmbly &c. shall be bound uy oath or aJir
inatio 1, to support the constitution of this
Commonwealth, and to perform the duties
of their respective offices with fidelity.
In the 9th article, are enumerated those
powers, which, the people or convention
diti not think fife to delegate.
In the 17th lection 01 the 9th article, it
is expresily provided that, no Expojt-facto
iaw, or any law impairing contract?
(hail be nude; and the words in the lail
fectian of the fame article are intended U
guard against violations of the high power:
ilien delegated to them, we further de
claring that, every tiling in this article not
expres'ly delegated, is excepted out of the
general powers of jroverniiieiit and dial,
tor ever remain inviolate.
The general affenibly met the firft Thurf
day in December 1 sit, took their feats, and
a£ted nnder a known law (which was cer
tainly an affciit to it and became a contrail
011 fheii part to comply with it untili alter
ed, whicl alteration could only regaic
their fuaire services) for about 3 months
at 2 dollars per day, when tkey palled ar
Expoftfacto law to pay th.-mfelies 3 dol
lars per day from the commencement c;
their fitting. Mow an Expofl fatlo law i
a law, which '1 Triads to operate ai;d pr< ■
dace effetts prev'oujly to the t'vie of its be
> j) enacted: as the one now alluded to
which wasjnadeto have the force of lav,
or 3 months orthere about before it wa:
palled. But two laws, interfering with,
and contradicting each other cannot botl
be i i operation at the fame time. It 1
admitted on all fides that the si. ft law
which entitled the members of the alleHibl;
to 2 dollars perday and for which they ac
tually did fei-ve their coiiftituents for abau:
3 months, was in as fail force as any otliei
law whatever, untili altered or repealed
And not withstanding this rational concef
lion, without which no government coulc
exist the aflembly absurdly, feifi;h:y, incieli
cat- y and unconstitutionally pals a law
which they decree fiiall operate to pa)
themfelv 3 dollars per d y from the be
ginning c*.he session; that is to alter 01
repeal a law three months before it coulc
be altered or repealed—But if they can dc
this for 31110 Whs they can for 3 year*—and
there is no end to the absurdity.
When \ye refieft that, \\e have in rea
ality to support the b:irt)ien and expence:
of two governments the foederal and state,
we cannot be too severe in our strictures,
upon fnch a felfifti mifappiication of tht
finances of the state.
But it is not so much the expence ol
this additional dollar, however extrava
gant and confequeiitly, cenfureable it ma)
be in itfelf, that we ought to dread : there
ii a rauch more formidable danger to be ap
prehended and against which we cannot be
too much upon our guard. It is immate
rial wii'-ther any particular violation 01
the constitution be in itfelf trivial and un
important. Every part of the conflitutior
claiming its inviolability from the fan;<
sanction viz. the authotity of th; ptoplt
there is 110 p«rt ot it more lacred than tht
reft. If the legislature violate it in an)
one instance, they may with the f?me pro
priety in any other : inafmuthas they-It
but violate the fame fanftion aud trample
upon the fame authority, to which the)
are indebted tor their power and for theii
exiltence.
The members of Montgomery county, i;
b true, alledged that they voted against tht
law. lam afraid that they gave it but t
feeble opposition, and that they were toe
willing to be overpowered. VVhy else di<
they not enter their protest against it ? 1
have already proved that this pretendec
law was unconstitutional. andthatit woulc
have been equaiiy so, whether it allowed
them lor 20 dollars per day. But they
i oted against it—Did the y vote against it ai
the Tieafury ? they equally with its advo
cates, pocketed the 3 dollars per day from
i heir firft fitting, although they had but a
little before lolemnly contended that it
was unconstitutional, or at least {for they
11111 ft hpve founded their eppofition upon
one of these realons) that their services
to the public would have been fufiiciently
nd amply compensated by the former
law.
But uo doubt they and the reft of the
minority, thought it,their duty to fubrnitto
the majority : and I may faftly fay, that in
no i-liance was this good maxim molt
rigidly or more wiifingLy adhered to.
But, my fellow citizens, if what 1 have
Hated appears to you to be true, rnd 1
hare reason to think that you agree witii
nfe in opinion, you have at least one reme
dy in your hands.—No longer trust thoft
men, who have had the temerity to abuff
your confidence, and trample upon the
constitution, the only bulwark of your li
berties.
A Montgomery Farmer.
P, S. I am informed that a motion has
been made in the Afli'mbly, to repeal this
law, and a committee appointed to re
port upon it. II ihey do repeal it, do you
imagine it will mention any thing about
refunding?
No—No—That would be clearly ejepoft
facto and unconftitutional —Be not deceiv
ed ; it is merely an electioneering ma
noeuvre.
FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
The ship Adtiana arrived here on Wed
nesday lali from Liverpool, which port Hie
leit the 12th of July—The following brief
Librati of advices is made from Liverpool
and London papers, received by the Adri
ana.
Additional inftruftions were iflued by
the Britilh court on the Btli of June, em
powering liiips of war and privateers, un
der the Knglilh flag, to flop all vcfiels laden
in whole or in part with corn, Hour, or
me. 1, and bound to any port in Francp. to
fend them to the molt convenient poi ts, tw
be unladen of Inch corn, flour, and meal,
to be purchased on behalf of government,
and then the Pnips to be released, after al
lowance for freight—All veflels found at
tempting to enter any blockaded port in
France, were to be made prizes of, except
veflels belonging to Denmark and Sweden,
who arc to be prevented entering on the
firft attempt, and on a fecoiul to be sent
for condemnation —A convention had been
entered into between the Britilh and Ruf
lian courts .the fubllante of which is, a
mutual engagement to afliit each other in
the course of the present war ag tinft
Fr mce from England and Russia, or from
the friends or allies of those powers. They
also agree to renew, provilionally, the
treaty of 1776, except a few alteration';,
cheifly relative to commercial intercourse.
On tiie 12th of June a body of 10,00 c
French troop Hiade ail attempt to dislodge
tlie advanced ports of the Sardinian army
near Nice, and alter an engagement o! Ji
hour* were repu fed (fay the I urin ac
counts) with the loss of about Soo men
killed anc! 1500 wounded, and a number
tak- n p ifoners.
Bowileai.\, June 16. All the fe&ions of
this city have declaied theivfelvesto be in
a state of infurrecVion, and delegated t ie
exercise of their rights to the conliituted
authorities of Bourdeaux. They after
w arfs gathered in a body under the title oi
the •• POPULAR, commission of the pub
lic we.il."
An army of the insurgents under genera!
Gafton had taken the two towns, Saumur
ind Angers in the province of Oriean:.
The accounts of this affair are various and
.ontradiftory. The artillery and men or
dered from Paris to reinforce the troops
igainff Gafton, let out on the 16th of June.
General Biron with 12OCO picked men
".ad advanced so as to cover Nantz and to
lem in the Britanny infiu gents on the only
quarter in which they could have pulhed
heir conquest with hopes of success. O
:her accounts fay, that Nantz was in the
ireateft danger, being besieged by two in
'urgent armies, one of 50,000 the other 01
50,000 men.
The town of Valenciennes, on the
French frontier, continued to be besieged
ay the Auftrians : mult of its buildings
were destroyed by bombs thfown in by the
but it was thought it might hold
jut till Augult. The beliegers on the lali
jf June had not opened any battery nearer
:hail 360 yards, but were preparing to he
jin a third pamliel. The ci
:adel had not fuifered any material injury
jy the befiegcrs : the Auftrians, provoked
~jy the obstinate refiltanee of tl>e belieged
w ere determined to storm the place, and
irince Cobourg had taken meafureb for
.hat purpofe—Conde was expe£ted to fall
iu a few days.
The Auftrians in an engagement with
"ome reg'meuts of Freirch near Arlon, had
ieen beaten, with the loss of {500 men,
:heir baggage and magazines. On the 1 jth
jf June a detachment of 400 French march
;d against the Aultrian polt; at Faha, Siniz,
ind Keipling. At th ; s last plate they took
bis imperial highness the arch duke Joseph,
as Auftris, with five dragoons. Every ef
fort was made to recover the archduke,
nut in vain. The prince of Waldeck had
Jeen mortally wounded aiot'.t the f. me
:inie in an attack on a body of French
iroops near Verwick. The capture of the
ii ch duke Jofcph, is however contrajiified
,11 one or two London papers.
In Savoy the French had surprized the
imporlaut polt of Affiette, ard by that
means eliablilhed a communication be
tween general Kellermaun's army aad thai
of Nice.
The fate cf Fjialitf (la's t'like cfCrleansf
was 4 iil in n i an. viti. ihtlf accounts
eft Furcpe. I f hi <1 ir.c'irjfii a long
txaniii aiinri ai Mtr.'trHes ,i v 1-c I I e ;,o
litiveiy denied hll counter let < lutiti ary
intentions. It was tlcijjnr ] reel would
be wanting for capital u rv fiicn.
Gen. Cufttue. ttjsoi afi n 11.or: frrm the
national corxcr.tu n. 1.; (1 left his am yat
Memz, awl reuilcd Jisri: on the 2(1 h of
June. The convention virt it tr< fane
time delibeiatii g on tie late ot Fr'fint
and other nun bent urdir arnll, aou!cd
ot plotting ac<in t< r tt\ o linen. Ihe re
mit had not trarfpir«d. One account
alieits that c n Jvne as thtrev ck rilitutic 11
was concluded at Paris. ;i.<i decreed a
midfl the loudest 11 plaule. Alt ot the
lame time the new shm reached Park that
[lie ihfiirjjenc am y under Gallon had beiii
defeated by general B.ron. with the loss
i'f -coo hit 11 011 the part of the iufurgeuts,
ihe-ir baggage and artillery.
The follewii g artie'e appeared in a Lon
don paper of Juiy 4.
"Mr. Thomas Paine has now loft his
.haraiter and popularity in France. His,
nan e is inlerted in the minutes of the con- )
mention among the otlier fufpec'W d mem 1
jers. His fullome flattery ot the king and
;\ueen of France ;.nd bis cruel and illibe
al reflections ay i>nit Krd George Gor
don, in " the Rights ot Man," fiift induced
rregoir a d Roberfpiere to ftifpeft him of
jeing fecretiy pensioned ; and his late con
duit in the convention, by attaching him
"e 1f to the parry of petion and Bt fibt has
:<mfiriued his disgrace. Heme followed
.lie late refutations o; his conltituents, the
ieputies of the iix fettions of the town of
Arras, to adhere to the decrees paflett
incethe 31ft of May and ttieir deck. ration
:hat " Thomas Paiile had ioft their confi
dence."
Gen. Dumourier paid avifit to the bank,
as London 011 or about the middle cf June,
tnd transferred a part of the nionev veiled
;i the Englilh fnnds in his name. He fail j
sdfor Oftend on the 19th, where he is
" id to be under a sentence of arrelt. Pur
ng his fiiorc (lay in London he received fe
deral challenges. One gentleman Sketched
:he figure of the Guillotine 011 a letter, and
left it at Duinourier's lodgings, with his
iddrefl'es eilcloted w and others had declared
:hey would spit in his face wherever they
r.et him.
The troops actually engaged in the (lege
as Valenciennes, are in number 18,500.
The covering armies undtr prince Cobcurg
and the d tike cf York are 80,000 men; ;<
mall army blockades Qiiefnoy, and 4000
[new are employed in the liege of Conde.
Tile liege of Mentz w as carried on with,
rigour by a part of the combined forces.
Nothing decilive however had taicen
.slate as the «ilt of June, n®r had the
whole fire cf tfie besiegers effected any
sreach in the works. The fire of the gar
'ifon was at Wait equal to that of the be
ieger , who had fuffered considerably
herefrom.
PHILADELPHIA.
Saturday, Augufl 31.
A letter appears in he CliarleftonState
jkzette of AugutV :e, ackireifed from capt.
VlarlU.ill, to the printers of tiiat paper, apo
ogizinj for his conduit in arming a HritiiU
rellel in that port, under his command,
iid bound for, Jamaica. It appears that
: aptain Marshall's velfel was threatened to
le taken from him, as soon as hepa&ed the
>ar,by a French privateer, then in CharleN
on harbour, which was the reason of li s
uming. He denies having opened a.iy
•endezvolis for privateerfmen, or having
;-en concerned in any step of ths kind,
ind "hi pes his coadiift, upon examination,
■vill prove ftich, as to extenuate the elifgul't
:hat may have taken place between ih?
-.itiztns of America and his fellow Jttb
:ecls."
The American brig Grand Sachem, si orri
Hifpaniola to H1 him ore, was taken July
u. in the bite ol Leogane by a i .iti',. pri
vateer from N. Providence, who ordered
lor for thai place, after taking poifellion.
Fiie brig, however, was afterwards reta
ken by tlie crecv, and the Providence priva
eerfmen l>nt <ir in a boat for their own
(land. TWo American veilels were fe>-n. iis
iiiitslHon of Providence privateers, unjer
.he lee of Crooked i(land.
Adnnral Gan.bis, of the French i'quadron
it New-York, lia< publifiied.his d« :ial t;f
:ertain charges that have appeared «ain(l
liim in the pulsiic prints ; particularly,
■' that the company of the Jupiter have on
just grounds of suspicion arretted the faitl
Admiral Carnbis"—and, "that the men
accuse Cambis of being the cause of the
troubles at the Cape."—" The connexions
(fays lie) that I have been tinder a nccefiitjti
us maintaining with Galbaud, are of a na
ture so fcandalotis, for a man whopreferves
any esteem for himfelf, that 1 anj less foii
citcus to lay them before the public than
to verify them belore the tribunals appoint
ed to take judicial cognizance of them."
About the middle of July last, the state
ment of the western army under general
Wayne, Itood as lollows : 3 lieutenant co
lonels, 8 majors, 35 capta ; ns, 59 fubalterrt
oflicers, 206 sergeants, 206 eorporals } 3.304
privates.The new brig Aurora, a p*k?t in the
Charlpfton anl Philadelphia trade, qui:.,
-lew, Chjrolina built, .1 nti jH:(i \[iv n te oi
t le coiupietelt velt-.-is «Hct to the
p.irpole, w.i; wr, 0,1 ti>e i.uh init. on
trie beach of one of me km-ilia aj,, it> miles
W. S. W. of C ij,.. Hatttr.i.. .It u well
known to all American coulters that veti'ei
when en'oiyed between Cape Hatter.ts
and Lookout, ii meeting with eafteriv
i:i tnat iituation, can (carcely fail ol
going 0: !;ore, be their capac ties of failing
what they may—A ceruticate appears
dated 14. ligned by captain strong':
p flen gers, exempting him from any charg<
n b arue, or neglect, un accountot theiof
o lie Aurora.
f From a Southern Print.^
In many papers we have been favourer
with thc» i-hn rafters of f>me of the * %-;eau
-1 f ig 'Ha* 'jet s"i the Fre i< 'i 'Jat? '•lal 6':»// •
va ition" "by Mr. &c.<bc. —
I have lately met with a work, pubiiihe<
ai Pari ;, entitled, characters
"by M. I their pub
-1 cation in your Gazette.
GEOfIGE G\\ ELPH-, alias
- GEO \R G E IHd.
He has been'the tyrant of the English na
T '°n ever (i ca the ye .r 1760 -in h;s yout:
r . narkable pains was taken to give him a>
ciius.at.on, on: natural fhinidity a:'.d ino
rofe temper, prev nted any great acquire
nfents of m ral know edge —tie is fre
quently insane, tn - cause of whiclfc fay-
Peter Pindar, wa owing to his happening
at a cottage to observe a 1: old woman mak
ing apple dumplings—the king could no
perceive how the apple could get withii
the dumpling, a id tiie old woman not fa
tisJving his cur o.iry, it 'b confuftd hi
oraiu, that he he:.s often been heard to ex
claim Oh ! the apple-dumpiiugi, Oh ! how
<lid the apple get witilin the dumpling.
The fen 1 the ft am! where is t hticain!
the prince of walks
Tor debauchery, drunkenef:, gambling
and every vice, has exceeded an)
charafler in the Englilh nation—he has been
Itnow-t to have a fer::giio of 35 milh eiV ;
ri ' ; n • • -to which he introduced his
another on an anniversary of h: birth day -
- - '•* t uie n ition about eighteen mii-
Jion> iteming lor hi 1 cfebts, and it
said now to be a bankrupt.
WILLIAM PITT,
Was formerly known as the friend of
the people, but having received large tri
butes and otherwise corrupted by the ty
rants of the court, he is at length abforbcr?
in tie maH of despotism, fiuce which h
has in olved .the nation in a ' tiin nis war.
brought bankruptcy on the people to the
amount of 20 millions lterling—ruined it
trade and manufactures, which may eve' l
* -My involve it in ail tlie horror sos a civu
war.
sHE DUKE OF CLARFNC.E,
Is the third son of the king, and has '-re
ly taken a feat in parliament—this youti
has been in the Wed-lndies and America,
where he :s well known—in the forme,
his attention to the female negroes ant
mulattoe* gained him their uneverfal c
fteem—in Barbadoesnt is wel! known thai
he mad? overtures toproititute the reputa
tion of a virtuous lady at a public altemi>i v
—he is aukward in his manners—was bred
to the lea, and bid: fair to be a '. eat man.
Mr. BURKE,
Has made hirhfelf corfj>iCuous by his in
flammatory inve&ives agaiuft our revoluti
on,for which his nation has given him about
jf- 20,000 —lie lias already declared if tht
convention would give him the like sum, lu
would write a pamphlet in c mtradiclior
of his former principles, and for the fun
cf 50,000 would espouse the catlfe of liber
ty and equality 1 .
DUNDAS,
His father was a copper-smith, in Bir
mingham, who by his trade acquired great
"wealth in counrerfeiting coppers and Iriffi
farthings; the foa seems per'ecUy acquainc
ed engraving, and is the very person
who firtr let on foot the counterfeiting af
fi^nats —hi; government have rewarded
.nyn bin-I nneiy for this bnfinefs by giving
liiin the place he novv occupies.
The brig Prudence, Doane, is arrived at
New-London from with
34 paifengers. She left the Cape July 3c.
Under the weft Caicos the Pruc;euce was
boarded by a privateer from New-Provi
dence, and compelled to anchor. Notwith
itanding the representations of the captain,
and the prayers and intrcat'es of the pal'-
fengers, the inhuman Britiih, privateer's
men plundered them of their p'lare, a few
pieces of linen, some boxes of fcap, and
fo;ne money in their pockets, their last re
source in the strange country they were
to, and the miserable oitrance they
-h'ljd left si om the ruins of their fortunes
in rlifpaniola. •• The persuasive cries cf
the widow and the fathcriefs, the pleading
tears of elegant and imploring Beauty, the
eloquence of generous and manly persua
sion, were fruitlefson this occasion, except
so tar as to prevail upon the captain of the
privateer to return one piece o' linen, and
a few silver spoons and forks to a widow
whom he had robbed of a confiderabie a
mount. 7 Several other American vel
fels were plundered at the fame time n
jiiQiig the C»aicos« Duuze reports
that feven-eigfiths of Cape Francois town
is burnt to allies. The place is now gar-
Nioned by uiulattoes and negroes, but
mo l :. y flic latter. They were, about thr
. oi July, in hourly expectation of aviii::
from the Spaniards, of Spanish St. Domin
go-
The sloop Sally, Capt. Ham, of Norfolk,
\ ii';rini,i, ai rived ,it that port oil til - 2 111
inff. in t5 (lays from >t. Kuftaria. Capt.
Ham, <»■»_ iits through the 1 fluids,
•yas taken by a Ijr.tifh and car
lied into Nevis, 'vilere he was detained trr
and plundered of 5S hogftieads of fu
l ,ir by The Britifli privateer, although tin
property of an American citizen. Tiie rcl
ol liis cargo lie was permitted to taken
« ay, on paying thirty Joes for his expellees
; oiii' American vcfijls lay at Antigua, tin
clar (entente of condemnation ; and a tieei
oi chem it St. Kitts.
A i'rench of 4 \ guns, and ar
armed bri, ; of 16 runs, are arrived in pa
tapfco-river, in Maryland, with an Englill
imp, tl>e:r ;■ ce. taken 011 herpafiage iron
Jamaica to JsJ vv- York.
(Georr.i) Aug. 8. "To the
eterii il ( os-liberty and humanity
rtie pseudo'ppa.rutsi uts oj Savannah, nave tar
red ana feathered a leiiow creature, jail
delivered from ill.' danger of ill!pwr eck
in Unarmed alien, saved from tne wreck
of.a French privateer on the illand of Ofla
traw, whole only offence was his haviuj
joined tin 1 French nation in their magnani
nious endeavours to deliver theinfelves.
a ill their fclfow-fiiiFerers, from the op.
preflion of tyrants.'
We hear from New York, that tin
French Ihip L'Eole,-of 74 fyuns.is shortly tc
I -il from that port on acrnif. ; and thai
the Jupifer, having cornproniifed son, e
lui f li nti ciitandings of the crew, is to follow
her in a few days.
I lie last account's from Ireland muntior
several delperate contests between the mi
lit. ry and the people, on ac omit of theii
militia acf. In the county of Rofcommon,
1 great nninner on oolh fides have been
killed and wounded. Difeontents every
.1 here prevail againff tile Englilli govern
ment of the illand ; for the people having
iuffered themselves t<> be new-yoked, artl
dilarmed. cannot now, with anv counte
nance, upon Hercules loradiliance !'
On ! hurfday l.ifi arrived here the lliip
Andrew, from L'Orient, which place Ihe
leftth-' 4thJu!y.(By tl.is veil Iwe have the
ajreeaoie and certain intelligence that ge
neral I)iron had beaten the inlurgents near
N .ntz in two engagement, in the firft 01
which 7000, and in the second ii,oco ot
rile rebels were killed. The citv of Nantz
'..'as n t. nor had it been in t.ic hand: ot
rile inlurgents, as related in the E lglilii
papers. Even the capture of the citadel
<<» Saumtir had liot been heaici of; and
t.iough party ran high, yet tiie rational i*e
publicans preva ; led, and tiie affairs ot
France v. ere c'oniidered as in a very jirofpe
rotss lituation, confident!" the number 01
the enemies of the republic. A co.ifider
able change had taken place in the national
convention, greatly to the nonor andf ifety
,-i tiie nation. Cuftine was at the head of
the main frontier army, and in the fulled
confidence of thl? nation. Prizes from the
Eusfilii, Dutch, and Spaniards, to an im
mense amount, n .d been brought into L'
Orient, and other' weftei 11 ports of France,
and in general, it appeared that every
1 hi ng was going well towards the complete
eltablifliment ol" the republic.
011 riiurfday last, the Governor of the
slate of Pennsylvania, met both houses of
the legislature in the senate chamber, and
delivered his speech 011 the opening of the
leiiion, extracts from which will appear in
our next.
From the gen-eral afpefl j>{ the London
and other Englilh papers, the cause of re
publicanism in France is on the verge of
ruin, and a counter-revolution on thepoint
of 6eing effected. From our own former
?:tper ence, large allowances niuftbemade
111 reading those accounts. It is well re
membered, that (luring the American u ar,
the Royal Gazette, at New- York, detailed
I'carcely any thing else but a conllant fuc
c-efiion of tiie molt brilliant victories gained
by the king's troops for upwards of seven
years ; and even Cornwallis's capture was
by fi.-ne of the royaliffs, interpreted into
a fignalbleffiilg to the arms of Great-Bri
tain, and their glorious monarch.
An American vcfl'el was, in June last.
captured by a French privateer, out of
Nantz, and fix of her hands, with a mate,
taken on board the privateer. The veflel
<vas afterwards rc-tcken and carried into
.01 tfmonth. in England. The American
feiimen sued the privateer, and obtained
damages for their detention, their wages
from the time of their capture, until they
should reach a port of the United States,
their pafiage, and all cofis of suit to he paicl
by tiie privateer, who belides forfeits forty
tnaufandlivres, for insulting the American
flag.
Capture of a French frigate.
"On the 19th ot June airived at St
Helen-, the British frigate Nymph. of
guns, with the Cleopatra Frewh frigate of
40 guns, and 320 men, her prize, whit I, fiie
took after a nioft gallant contellr. Oil the
18th the Britifli frigate fell in with the
C'eopatra. off the Start Point, when the
Ymiih lnueri witli uu^
abating fury for about ;o minutes, when
tae Cleopatra's mizen matt: and tiller were
mot away, which rendering her ungovern
ah!e, Hie fell on board the Nyinph. Ihe
Bririfh captain then gave orders to board,
which were iilflantiy executed, when the
frenchman lli uck, the EngUlh frigate be
nig greatly superior in numbers. Tin
ui'iti.h \ t .iel liaci 24 men killed, and ;8
vvounded ; the Cleopatra raear 100 killed
ant. wound d, including the captain. The
coiMiieuceinent of tile action between the
Nymph and Cleopatra, was the molt noble
and awlul that tile naval history of the
world ever recorded, The French tap
tain ordered his (hip to be manned, and
coming iorward on the gangway, pulled
"ft his hps, and called out " Vive la Na
tion ! when the (hip's company gave three
c it-ei s. 1 heEnglilh captain in like manner,
ordeifd his men from quarters to the
in ouci and gave three clieers to " Long
live king George the third," and hisputtine
his hat pn again was the signal foi
aeuon, one oi the molt desperate evei
ouiiiit. J hegreatelt part of the time tht
twoflnps were yard-arm anil yard-arm.
and 011 board, that at last the
r ymph's people on the tops actually weni
n-' 111 their own yards to tkofe of the Cleo
; : : and cut the people from their quar
£crs-" [London Paper.]
On Saturday, Aug. 24, failed from Bos
ton, the French frigate La Concorde, atx
mutual salutes palled at the forts. Previoui
to lading, citizen Van Dongen, the cum
m inder, caiird upon deck the Englifli pri
! "tiers 011 board, and enquired ot" their
whether they h id been in „ny manner il
uied during their confinement, either bj
officers or fcamen. Th y answered, they
had received the befl treatment poflible
eier iince t;:e:r capture, for which the)
- : oiHcers and crew roacceptoi
'; ,r warmeit thanks. 'i'he commander
- hull delivered them over to the BritHl:
i o'iiu!, a.t they were ianded on Frida\
evening the 23d.
I'rem a London pcftr*
Jt is impofiible to forefee what will be tht
liue of tlie present conteit between the par
ies 111 fiance. At Marseilles, when the
irrelt o the members of the convener
•vas made known, (he people rose againll
he jacobins. At Amiens, the two depu
tes who went thither to hasten the march
jf troops to Paris, were obliged to quit tht
>iaie without accomplishing the object, ant
Jne of them u as relu ed a paflport at Don
ens, 'us native place. At Rouen, the admi
n.tration of that department have deter
-111 ied to suspend all communication with
lie metropolis. The people of Toulor
lad annulled the measures taken by the
leputie,irom the convention, and have re
eai'ed all the prisoners confined bv the [a
-obins. At Versailles a schism is likely to
.ake place between the commune and tht
le'partment. At Lyons, the section. after
1:1 obihnate engagement with the jnunici
jauty, have proved victorious,' and beint
Oined by different corp., of lmffars and na
1 guards, their prelidents constitute tht
jroviiionary government of the town. A:
1 yreuH, on receiving by express the decree
■<t the convention which ordered the refi
lence of the department to be transferred
lie hall in which the members of the de
)..riine :t hold their iittings was liirroundee
a ith <: Im.ll. and 800 men set out to meel
he commiflloners Tint from Paris to en
torce the decree, whom they arretted. Ai
Retires the constituted authorities oeififl
1 tnufe measures which they have taker
or marching troops to Pans, At Caen the
.noil violent mfurreftions have taken place,
>110 in fliort, tile whole country of France
' l , h V present moment in the molt con
. t.lfed liate, into which it has been throwr
ly f^, e r:,;ul 'ncfs and civil war that agitate
he Convention. 0
Tl ? e wllule of the Span'fh fleet failed froir
- ajjiian on the 18th of May, and fteerec
owards Corlica, where a part of it is te
"in the Britilh fieet, and the reft were te
th ;/ V P n^ h Prfo-iiers taken in tin
1 ands forte and Antioch, to port
Vlahon. The Spanitti fleet confiits of twen
y-tnree (ail of the line, of which three
airy one hundred and twelve guns each
ind three frigates. * '
[From the Baltimore Evening P O JI, of
Augujl 26.J
" France as yet having defied her foreign
enemies is now engaged in quelling an in
foe - which (eenis to threaten the
National Convention with its total over
, row before the end ofthejear, and (hould
die armies of the royalilt party increase
with the rapidity they have done hitherto
■ here is fearcely a doubt but they will ac
-omplifli their infernal designs, and involve
that nation in a feene of blood (lied, maflacre
and delolation never yet equalled in the
Luropean world.
" rhe fate of those important fortrelfes.
Conde, Lisle, and Valenciennes, is probabJv
determined ere this, and whether'they re
m»'» '« , t ' le hands of the French, or are
pnnefled by the prince of Coburg, we ft, II
h , e =i bl ,f 'o'inform our readers perhaps bv
the firft fall finps, or the next packet, which
may be hourly expefled.
England has dispatched a powerful fleet
under the command of lord Hood, for th<s
white it ia to be joined
by 3a ? panifli fail of the line—when botij
fleets are united they are to attack 1 oulon'
Alar fellies, and the ill and of Corsica, all
of which places thiilPpr«bably furredder
the great Jorce defined to act at>ainft
them. "
' ' l,e Ruffian? have concluded a treaty
With Pruflia, and divided the king of Po.
land _s dominions between them, lave alittle
. nit which they allow him merely ,»
keep up his title as a king, and save hini
from ufinal starvation, or a depend mce
upon other powers for a support.
Tf .. rill J e y» Sweden, Denmark and the
Italian dates, rem .in silent fpeftators of
the convulhoiis which agitate the relt of
urope, and leem to enjoy an envied tran-
Mi.l.ity m the internal management oftheir
elpeclive governments.
i j'n' pl |- alliance of En 2 land, Hoi
land 1 rullia, in concert with the em
peror, are resolved to rertore France Co a
ZT* whnher to a li,nited or
we '3'-enot yet certain-bun
•I 'swe know, that Frenchmen will never
tibinit to the odious oppr.effions and exac
- " s which have been imposed on them by
1 1 oiei moiiarchs to the eternal dif>rsce of
-heir memories." °
; ®' E , D -;- on Thurfda ymorning lafl.Mrs.
, H WR'ght, wile of Mr. Jofephi
Wright, ofthis city. J 1
IHE PROBATIONARY ODES Or tONA
THAN PINDAR, ESC>. CONTINUED.
O D F. XII.
Jonathan taketh leave of his Correspon
dents : apoftrophifeth'a Great Mast
withoutJiain, and giveth to real merit
merit's due.
Major A canarnus.—Virg.
UNOUGH of Atlas J and the venal train
1 hat round his paper-fin ine attendant
wait :
Enough of Daddy Vice's fertile brain,
i it!es and Rank prolific to to create ;
Prolific as Egyt/an oven vast,
\\ here chick 'nk, ducks and veefe are
hatched so fact !
>■ Enough of the well-born! those hrdlinf
.... c,ts < [heads :
\\ ho now presume so high to held their
\» retches, whole pride by far outweighs
their wits,
Who, if they know, try to forget their Pads
Just asrank weeds that on a dunghill gro\v>>'
Shoot up at once, to hitfe the filth beiow.
As the philofopherin search of Trtrh
With high contempt each bife deception
A r. 'P"™; [youth
As from the Midnight ptlnk th'e generous
To the chafle oeject of nis pafficn tiinu •
As from & loath'd disease returnin, health ; '
Or, as from beggary the joys of wealth ;
As to the blind the new-found bliss of
fight;
As to the ga ley-slave fair freedom's hand ;
As frotn a dungeon the return to j-?ght -
from a fhipureck the long- wifh'd-for
" rand s f dWdain
My foul turns from them all with high
X o hud n> Geor_.se truegreatuejs % wth~
out J taili,
O Wash ingtoN ! for whom my willing:
lyre 19
Unhidden vibrates loudest notes of praise
\\ hen lliall thyyctunrivali'd Tuorth\nlb'ir&
Some emulation ol thy glorious days !
Still as afATHERto thy country dear
Regard not those who seek to wound thy
xr . P"' ac . c \ . [ear,
or to ' h . eir >mp,ous falfehoocls lend an
Who would perfnade thee her regards
can cease. b
Still at the helm go on our bark to steer
Nor quit it, till'i hou leavethink
equal there.
And now, good folks, a dozen odes I've
writ,
'More by one half than e'er I tho't to write)
And it I have not always shewn my wit
No doubt you'l fay that I have shewn my
Jp'te J
Fof. to all party hut the tublic wea!,
All (econdary motives I disdain ;
Nor ne er (hall -worth my smarting satire
feel,
Nor Vise a plaudit from my hand obtain.
Farewell ! perhaps when our next Con
gress meets,
Amongft,thein I may take a little peep ;
Not to disturb their worfiiips io their
feats,
But just tofee -wh^wakes, and who's cfleepi
. JONATHAN PINDAR.
Virginia, Augtift 3.
"
IN TWO OR THREF. MONTHS
'AN APPRENTICE '
regular apgthecart.
A outh not less than fifteen or fixieeti
years ol age, with a suitable education and
good moral character—For further 1 art!-
vulars en<juiie ot the Edito jr. 3 awi(NEW YORK August, ?8.
THE attempts con!rautly making tr,
an abandoned arillocratic faction tc
embroil the Uni'ed Staff 6 with Frs.nct
cannot but excite our serious apprehenli
inn. It has become a common laying, at
lead with this faction, and their adher
ents the tones, that if we must have war,
it had better hi, with France than Great
Britain. The firfr, thev fay, is already
overwhelmed with foes, vv hi lit the latter hr.s
r.o enemy but France—as to the cause o:
liberty in which our generous allies are
engaged, it you mention this as a reafor
lor at lead within;; them well, you ar<
flared at as a madman, or laughed out o:
countenance as a f<ditious democrat
While theft fentimen'.s prevail in some c:
our sea ports, which are crowded wi l
contemptible adventurers from Great Bri
tain, it must be observe lto the honor o:
the American character, that the great
body of people with one voice and one
heart unite in wishing well to the Frenct
revolution. It cannot however be con
fealed that many late publications, anc
we m?y add many meafuret of govern
ment, have a Undency to involve us in <
war with the only free nati n on earth
Among "this kind of publications may bj
claffeil those under the figna'.ure of Paci
ficus.—Thtffe tffivs have been induftri
oufly republiPiK'd in every city on tin
continent and with some others of tlr<
f ore eomplexion, are attributed to tht
i—y of the t —y. Under a pr.tence o
vindicating the President's proclamation
they contain a most infamous libel on tin
French nation. The treaty is frittered
into a dead letter, every measure of thf
revolutionills is vilified, and praise i:
bellowed only on a worthless traitor whe
endeavored to.betray his-trull In hii
next number we may expect an eulogiurr
on Dumoiirier, who certainly deserve;
well of the ariilocratic part of mankinc
for his attempts to betray a nation of re
publicjns.—Americans, beware ! whsr
fitch fentimeftts are inculcated from thf
profs—when a nation to whom you owe
your it-dependence, is publicly vilified ar.c
traduced, and for no other rea'on v thar
because she has unrtieathed the fwcrc
ngainft tyranny, an attack upon your owr
liberties cannot be distant. I might point
out several measures of government which
have the (atne pernicious tendency of em
broi ing us with France, but it would bs
very inconvenient just now to be indicted
in the federal court for a libel, which ap
pellation might easily be given by a cun
ning federal bench to any enquiry irttc
the mei-fures of government.—Thejudges
have good salaries, and as they are cer
tain of enjoyinf them while the govern
ment lads, I fiiouid not like to have my
liberty or purse at tlie mcrcy of theit in
terpretation of the doctrine of libels. But
for this well grounded appreheniion, we
might aflc why was Henfield indicted :
was it not to pleale Hammond and \ex
Genet? or in plain English, was it not to
court Great Britain, and to irritate
France? Would lie have been indicted il
he had served on board the Bolton in hei
late conflict with the Ambuscade ? In
fneh a cafe Pacifi us would have proved
from Vattel, that there was a material
difference between serving on board of a
royal and a republican frigate The
whole bench of federal juuges may be
with all thehr leisure, to hunt
for cases, to produce a iingle ii stance of an
individual of a nation at peace being in
dicted for voluntarily entering into the
service of one at war. (Too much pfjife
cannot be given to the virtuous and patri
otic jury who acquitted Henfi.ld, and by
{heir verdict have confirmed to every A
mericau citizen a right which fubjefts,
even under a despotic monarchy, have
hitherto enjoyed without interruption. J
Henfield was scarcely acquitted wHen
the press labored with libels againll citi
zen Genet. Anonymous signatures were
adopted, and a chics jullice and a senator
of the United States quickly offered their
aid in support of publications replete with
abuse of this worthy character. In the
very ast of coming forward they ou l raged
not only citizen Genet, but decency,com
mon feufe and their fellow citizens—ln
flead of- disclosing the whole truth, tl.ey
related only what suited their own purpose
and the views of a base party. Mr Genet
has observed a dignified iilente. Well
knowing he could acquire no credit by
calling them to a personal account, he
djfdained to enter into a nefpaper contro
vet'fy with them—Whether hit rep.ublic
will resent die indignity, is yet to be af
certhined ; in the person of our m r
at Paris they never will. He is below
their contempt; liis chara&er is as well
known there, as it is in this country, yet
such is the respect paid to the Un ted
States by this infant, but great republ c,
that wliile they execrate the ariftocrr.lic
principles, and attempts of our m r,
a guard isplaced at his door to prevent any
insult from the revolutionills. If the U
niied States are the object of their refent
raent, in what situation will a declaration
of war, find them—France has a fleet—
we have none—We have a commerce —
France has none—The sea ports of- France
are well fortified—ours are defencelefs—
The armies of France will consist of
freemen, and enthusiasts in the canfc
as liberty—ours, if we have any,
will be composed of despicable arifto
crat3 and tories, for not a real whig will
draw his sword in so wicked a caufc,
And yet in this defencelefs situation,
which is a disgrace to admini(lration,are we
provoking a power which has withstood,
and will »anquifh, (notwithstanding the
prayers of Pacificus and his adherents to
:he contrary) the combined force ot
E Jtope.
The forcible seizure of fevera! French
prizes, with oilier fl grant inflations of
our treaties with Francs, will be consider
ed hereafter.
Americans ! be on vour guard ; the
detestation of the French revo'ution,
which is become so fsfhionable among
those in office, results from :«n affection
for monar. hy Under this form of go
vernment their salaries will not only
be encreafed, but perhaps perpetua
ted. That inany, even of those who
formerly passed for patrio's, (while they
had places and faiaries in view) have this
execrable form of government in contem
plation, is obvious to the mod fuperficia!
observer.
■ ■ ■■■ • fUWK" - -
NEW-PORT, ~ (R I.) Aug. 13.
" ON the 13th of July lad arrived
here the merchant ship Catharine, Wil
liam James Davis, master, from Ja
maica,for New-Brunfwick, mounted with
8 cannpn and a number of wooden guns,
but not comrniflioned ; and navigated by
16 men, with a 1 niall caYgo, and fevera
pafTengers with their servants, and a large
quantity of baggage, which he had con
trailed to land at Sandy Hook, or in this
port. y
On the 31ft he entered his vefTel, anc
propoftd to enter his cargo.—ln the
forenoon -of the next day.. the judge o:
the ditfrifl. court was informed, that capt
Davis had, off Cape Hatteras, violently
entered a flocp, callcd the Rainbow,
Mackay, matter, belonging to citizens oi
the United States, and bound from Cape
Francois to Philadelphia, with a number
of French pafTengers on board, whom lit
robbed of several bags of money j and
that one of the pafTengers of the Catharine,
if called upon, would attest to the truth
of this information. The judge immedi
ately took meafnres to obtain his testimo
ny. —He appeared, and, aficr his deposi
tion was taken, had liberty to be absent
three quarters of an hour, while a fait
copy of it was making out, when he en
gaged to return, and swear to
the truth of it. But ir.flead of returning
»t the lime fixtd, by the interference of <
gentleman, whole duty it could not be tc
letain the witness, but whose duty it wai
:o discountenance any violation of the
neutrality, fubfjfting between the United
States and Great Britain, he did not re
urn till two hours and a half had elapsed,
when he fubferibed and made oath to the
deposition. The judge, in the mean time,
cad drawn a warrant for apprehending
capt. Davis ; and notwithstanding the
time which had been confirmed in taking
a iong deposition, the delay occafiorted in
the manner hinted, and some delay caused
by an improper meddling of the gentle
man referred to about the time the depo
sit ion was sworn te, the warrant was de
livered to the deputy marshal at 8 o'clock
in the evening, with positive directions to
execute it immediately—He it seems
thought bed to defer the buflnefs intruded
to him till tlie next morning ; but desired
the captain of the fort to keep a good
look out, and to fire upon the flrip if The
(hould attempt to pass. Between ten and
eleven o'cl. ck, the wind, which had been
southerly, fuddenlv fhifted to the north
ward, and blew frefh. The (hip's cable
was flipt or cut, and she was under way.
The captain of the tort fired at her as
scon as she was in motion, aad repeated
lifs fire ; tut tlie battery bein* out of
repair, the fire could not be continued,
arid (be was soon out of fight and the
reach of the cannon ; and thus, by the
interference and intermeddling hinted at,
and the remiflnefs of the deputy mar thai,
1 culprit, who had violated the laws of
neutrality and humanity, was fufFered, if
not encouraged, to rfcape the punishment
due to his crimes. He carried along with
him his paflengers' baggage, and servants.
The passengers have declared they spoke
with the Briiilh frigate called the Bolton,
commanded by capt. Courtrey, who" in
formed that he had conic from Halifax,
armed at all points, to take the Ambus
cade, to whom capt. Davis delivered one
of the bags of monev, to the amount ©1
850 dollars, of which l.e had robbed the
unhappy French.
The diftrift judge lias since taken the
deposition of the other paflTengers, which
agree in substance j and we presume has
transmitted all of them, and '.he other pa
pers, to the Prcfident of the United States,
who will without doubt, treat this fee
rolbery as it deserves. Viewing this mat
ter in a national light, I shall forbear any
abf rvations on the atrocity of the crime,
considered in that view ; and only makt
a (hort remark on the cruelty of Davis.
I do not believe that the history of pi
rates, furnilhes an inflance of persons
being robbed by them of their property
who had ef. ped from the recent destruc
tion of their country ; and had nothing
to support them, but what they had
hatched from its ruins. Blulh Britain,
that one of thy for.s should be gi ilty oi
such unexampled barbarity ; blush, and
revenue the wrong !
The account we have given is from in
formation but we have reason to think it is
true ; and it is communicated with a view
to correct the misapprehensions, whicl;
Tome entertain of this tranfa&ion.
It is a vulgar proverb, but it is just,
'' Ltl the fuddle be pl. ced on the rtgh,
borfe."
Mb I iiORULOGICAL U lio i. h.f sil IuMA.
July 1793.
D. I' arum. Ibrr, ll'.nt 'JVeatber
Tut/day, 20 . t 33. j 69 |N.N. £• 1 ilir,
3. -jo. 12 82 ltl. NE • I'l l"
IVeantJday, 11. bj 3c. 15 62 j si. \t'air.
3 30. jN.N.E. do
Cburjday, 22. 6 30. ' 6, ! N E F,.
3 30. 35' %■> I - s - I do.
Friday, 23.6 30.251- 1 cum j lair.
3 W- Isl _Ss Is. ; j!^
Saturday, 34. 6 30* ] 73 ; .jim,
__ ? * S' | ■so. Rain
Sunday, 25. 0 30. 1 71 N. E. R o )tj.
3 3 0< T (^r '* zt.ra'w
Monday, 26. 6 30. I 5 59 |N. F. \CJcucy.
3 30. 2 69 |N. E I do.
To be Sold or Let,
(And of this immediate pojjrtfiin given.)
THAT handsome, wcll-bui.t three flcry ne^ 1
house, lituate on the east fide of Tout]
Fourthflreet, ne..r the Indian Philadel
shia. This Situation is valuable, being in ;
:eniral part cf the city, and convenient to th
:anks and public offices. The house is 25 fee
n front, and, with its offices, extends nearly. io<
eet backwards. Jt has the privilege of an alle
|.i feet wioe* The offices aie three stories high
ind, together with the house, are built of bricic
hefecontain five apartments, besides a wa:h house
|nd four of them nave fire places. In the dwell,
ng house it felt, there are nine .rooms and eight
ire places : fix of the rooms are fpaciou-s, and
afhionably finiflied. The garrets are ceiled : th»
tair-cafe iselegar.t. There is a good cellar uncei
he whole, and in the yard a pump.
And to be Sold,
230 Acres ofur.imprjved iaud,iß milcejfrom the
Hiving town 0/ Hairifburg, Pepnfylvania. Thi;
radt lies in a yale ; , and is laid to be verv gooc
arming land, 'j here are one or mqre mills nrai
he premises. The river Juniata is about fiv<
nilesdilianc j whence it is beatable into the Suf
iuehanna, and tlifiice to Harritbmg* Alio,
A aeji table retreat, or. firm, in Newfowii, the
ounty town of Bucks, Pennsylvania j contain
ng nearly 15 acres of la'nJ, naturally very ri?!i,
md now highly improved. It is furroun.ied on all
ides by public ftree.ts or r«#ads j and may, with
ircfent advantage, be converted intd town lots
hat would prove of growing importance. Th-r<
s a conim dious brick houle upon the premises,
wo ftorh.s in height, having 1 »ur r<j ms on 2
ioor, a spacious entry or pallage throughout, and
i cellar extending under the v-hole-houfe. It is
veil accommodated without houses. About three
icres arc occupit-d by an orchard of the graft
rd Newtown pippins r ciiflai.t from Philadelphia
15 miles j from Trenton 9 ; from Bristol ii j and
is within fiye miles of the river Delaware. Tht
situation is extremely IlealChy- j the profpedls art
charmingly pi£iurelque # and the neighbourhooc
affords a genteel focietv.
Bejides the above, *
Two corner lots in the town, of one acre each,
are ofte ed for sale, together with airolit 16 acres
of excellent land, half a mile from the town
under the best culture and impi . Twt
or of tiaele acre? are in timber.
Likeivije :s be Sc/'d.
An ejlimable farm of. 53© acres, in the countv
of Chefler, 39 miles from Philadelphia: iow acre
01 which are of the richcft bottom.' whole
of tli's 'and en)oys a kind, rtrorgami fertile foil,
is well watered-, and adapted to the
raising of grain and ail kinds of stock ; at present
there are nearly 30 acres of made-meadow, and
to or 30 more of watered meadow may be made
at plealuie : too-c 2CO are luxuriantly covered
with a variety cf valuable timber. Upon the
prem fes, theie are a f*im house, barn, &c. a
never.failing Stream of good water, and a most
proc-udiive apple-o:chard c< rering aoou: fix acres j
the fruit of a good and lading quality : the pur
t-hafer may be accommodated with all or any part
bf the stock or farming utensils upm th« place.
The position of this farm is important, lying on
both fides of the main road, and bounded south—
:rly by the road to Philadelphia through Down
ng-town j—whence it is distant 12 or 1-» miles :
Oi the noi th it is bounded by the rord to Warwick
Furnace, Situate hue a tew miles distant. Ai this
|>oint, the pre mi fee enjoy a capital fland both for
a Store and tavern, and alio an eligible situation
For a village, which would here have feme
commanding advantages, and might be an obje&
to any gentlemen wifliing to fou;id an excenfive
and profitable settlement. On the one fide, it
has a dircft communication with Downiig's
town j and with the rich and populous Settlement
t Coneftogo valley on the other, both lying with
in a Short ride of the place. There is alreadv a
■ arket here lor produce at the Philadelphia prices
-—the neighbouring iron-works creating a constant
demand. Plenty of good limeSlone mav b<; had
»irhin 5 miles of the premifes,,aod a U
make use of it will be conveyed by the
tor if required. In flioit this farm deServes the
attention or sny perlon or persons inclined to
avail themlelvts of advantages such as those it
offefies.
'1 title to toe several premises are indifpnta
pie } and the proprietor will warrant to defer, d
hem. Ihe terms ot (ale, for.ail or any of the
ands, will be made accommodating to the ourcha
trs. For farther particulars, apply to the (ob
criber, »t No. 6, iouih Fourth-itreer, or ai his
th" corner of JVluiket and Thi.d-Sheets,
Philadelphia.
ROBERT SMOCK.
■Aug. 10. • ia. w. 1. f.
W A R R i NT ED
Bowling-Cloths Mill-Jlones,
For sale ac No. Nogrh Second-ftreel, by
OLIVER EVANS,
w Ho viewed the Cloths and Stones in a
great many of the best mills in different pans
• f Ameiica, and procured sam; les sis the cloths,
ivitl) an account how they, pioved, and collected
:he opinion and judgment of many of the m ft'
IxperienCfd millers refpe&'mg the quality of cloths
In J ft one for the' different purposes : therefore, if
hey do not prove good, and suitable for the pur
poses for which he fells them, they v wi;| be re
reived again, others delivered in their ftc-ad, and
:he ccfis of carriage paid. Drafts of the L.eft and
Smplefl plans for boulting, and best and fim. 1-ft
|onftru£li -ns of mills now in use, will be shewed
sco the porchafers, if required.
August 17. I a. w. t. f.
Shoals 'fO'gechee, {Georgia) Jui.e -8.
S T() P TIiI EF.
T HE „ public * r e rjrnueSted to iiup a villain v» h
& calls h:mfelf 'I jiomas Stevens, or Steven-.
Ton, is a pood Shoemaker, fays he was born in tl>-
!>ate cf New York, is about 5 tret 7 or S 'mcht-6
high, Veil made, fair complexion, Short curled,
hair behind, and bald before to ths crown f has
a fear on the i.ack of his head, which he Says he
received in Savannah in der-nce of Mr. JVnliin,
his en*player, by a Stroke cf a boot tree by a Mr.
Sim 1 ijfon j has tiavelled through everv /late in
the Union, and 1 veral of the Indian he
Stole from this place a Sorrel Gelding, about
or 14. ban* s high, has a Star in his face, bra.nded
on the mounting inouider RM joined, paces and
trots. Likewise, a half worn double soli-ted fad
die, witli piated Stirrups, and. a inaaie uridle,witb
hil' moon plated buckles, and a pair of g.,-fe
necked plate* 1 (purs- Whoever will bring said
lor/e and thief to the subscriber, Shall receive
Ten Guineas reward
SIMON DAY-
July 9. ' St
Seat of War.
FOR -SALE
At M. Carey's Store, 113, Mar
ket-Street.
A SHEET MAP
Df the French, Auitrian anj Dutch Ne
th rlar.ds,
In which the progress of ths pr-ftnt J'/ur
msiy be traced.
Price three eighths of a Dollar.
And a MAP of the
Three Northern Diflrids of France, di
vided into D.'partmen's—Price
om fourth of a Dollar.
Maps of the United States :
/\ - piibiic-Jpinted gentlemen, pcSJctled wikt
l a. material* for correOing.-arid improving tiie
T;?;>s cf the feverjl fiarep, will lay M- Carey
'tidcr very particular obligations, by commur.i
them. He js in imrneoiate want of force
r New-jersey and Dt-iavvare j of which Slate*,
he is now c taring maps.
Ljiithris's Geography :
THE fublcription (or thu nu »,|| be conti
nuej opi-n, atthe j.Tere.lt rare of twci»e doll»r<r
ill rhcri O of November iext; after'«4iich
it v ill h- raif'd to fourteen dollars.
August le.
PSISTSa BY
CHI LD S and SWA IN E.
VT ThIU O'nct No< 209, HIOK-9TKKIT|
MAS rirTH-StR r. ST,