Numb. 36 of Vol. ll.]
Report of the Secretary of the Treasury, re
lative to the Loans negotiated wider tht
Aits of the c,th and \2th of Augjft, 1790.
[Continued from our lajl.~\
TF there be any want of legality in the
pla i which has been pursued, I was
not at the time, and ain not yet sensible
of it.
I know of 110 rule which renders it ille
gal in an agent, having from the fame
principal two authorities to borrow mo
nty,whether for one or different purposes,
to unite the loans he may make, upon the
foundation of both authorities : Provided
the terms of them be consonant with both
or either of his commiflions. If the pur
poses are different, it will be incumbent
upon him, to take care that the application
of the monies borrowed makes the pro
per separation ; and doing this he will
have fulfilled his trust. Toteft this por
tion it Teems only neceflary to alk, whe
ther the principal in such cafe would not
be fully bound to the lenders ?
In reflecting originally upon the regula
rity of the proceeding meditated, there
was but one source of hesitation ; th? dif
ferencein the funds upon which the loans
were to rcil Butthe following reason
ing fatisfird the scruple : The pledging ol
particular funds is for the security of the
lenders. It they are willing to wave the
special security, by lending on the genera
credit of the government, or to dispense
with the preference of one fund to another
where two are pledged, by lending indif
criminatelv on the credit of both, the one
or the other circumstance mtiftbe alike
indifferent to the government. The au
thority will have been well executed, tc
the extent necefTary for public purposes.
and if any thing remains unexecuted, it
will be in enlargement, not in abridgment
of .he public rights.lt is however prelumec
t tat th? prn&icsi cwnftrucHtjn, in the pre
fjnt cafe will be, that the two funds pledg
ed will constitute an aggregate, for tin
joint security of the monies borrowed up
on both aits.
The second general circumstance ref
pefling the foreign loans, negotiated un
der the a£ts of the 4th , and 12 th of Anguft,
which requires attention, relates to the
terms 0.1 which they have been obtained.
These.it appears have been represented.as
neither honorable nor advantageous.
The following facts, witnefled by the
correlpondcnce bei'ore the Senate, more
than once referred to, and well known to
all who have had opportunities of infor
mation, demonstrate, that the terms of
those loans, have been both honorable and
advantageous.
1. There is not one of them, which ori
ginated under the arts, that was not effec
ted upon condi ions equally favourable
•with those attending the loans of the co
temporary borrowing powers of the molt
tried resources and bell established credit,
and more favorable than w ere obtainable
by some powers of great refpeOability
2. The United States took a lead in the
market, in regard to the subsequent re
du£>ions of interest ; having had either
earlier or more complete success than ar.y
other borrowing power.
3. From a rate of five per cent, interest,
and four and a half per cent, charges,
which marked ths level of the market
when they begun their loans, they In the
course of a single year, brought down the
terms to four per cent, interest, and five
per ccnt, charges ; th.;t is from an interest
on the nett sum received (including an in
demnification for charges) of 5.5012,
something more than five and a half per
cent, to an interest on the like sum of
4.4951, something lefsthan4 [-2 per cent.
When this state of things is applied to a
government, only in the third year of its
cxifter.ce, and to a country which had so
recently emerged from a total derange
ment ofits finances, it would i'eem innpof
fible to deny that the ifi'ue is not only 110-
3iorable, but flattering , unless indeed it
can be denied, that a found and vigorous
state of credit is honorable to a nation.
I forbear a comparison between the
loans of the present, and ot the former
government of this country, because an
immense disparity of circumstances would
render it an improper one—further than
to take Eotice of a very great error which
has been upon some occasions advanced.
It has been alledged, to disparage the
management, under the present, that the
loans of the former government, in a situ
ation comparath e'v very disadvantageous,
By P. FRENEAU: Publifhcd Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
have be - i effected upon equal terms ; and
in proof of this an appeal has been made
to the io.ni of 2,000,0d0 of guilders at
four per cent, which is that of the gth of
March, 1784.
Nothing can manifeft more clearly th in
this, the very precipitate and fuperficial
views, with which fu on impor
tant public fubjeits, are sometimes made.
Thelaft four per cent, loan, obtained
under the existing laws, including char
ges, is a real four and ahalf par cent loan
ur more exaftly'a 4.4951 per cent. loan. The
four per cent. loan of March i"B4, is a
i real 6.C4fiS per cent. loan. The diifer
?nce which exceeds 2 per cent, arises
irincipally from extra premiums and gra
'fications which were allowed upon this
oan, and which are unknown to the o
:her.
Much praifeis no doubt due to the ex
rtions which effected the loans under
:he former government. A fnperiority of
lierit, (hall readily be conceded to them,
Vom the circumstances under which they
.vere made, and their lignal utility in the
evolution. But it is not nerefTary to
heir eulogium to affirm, that they were
nade upon equal terms with those lately
ibtained. or to deny the gopdnefs of the
erms of the latter. Truth will not jufti
'y the one or the other.
The facts which nave been stated prove,
hat the terms of the loans are advanta
geous as well as honorable. They are
romparatively advantageous, becanfe the\
ire as moderate as other powers in the
>eft credit have allowed ; and tliey are
ibfolutely achantageous, because the high
lit real not tiotnirial rate of interest,
vhich has been given does not exceed
a fraction more than 51-2 per
:etit. while the lo weft real rale is 4-495'
1 fraction leO than 4 1-2 per cent. >
If the question whether advantageous
>.* ni>t be te(t«d *>y the pr«rpofV*s for which
Jj loans have been made, the conclusion
equally in their favour—The payments
>n ac of the foreign debt, were .111
ildifpenfabie obligation. Unless it can be
hewn that they might have been derived
Vom another and more advantageous
oiirce, it will follow that it was the in
ereft of the government to avail itfelf of
he resource which has been employed,
iccaufe it was its duty todifcharge its ob
igai'ons.
It is sometimes urged, that foreign
oans for whatever purpose are pernicious,
lecaufe they serve to drain the country
if its specie for the payment of interest,
ind for the final re mburfement of princi
lal—?hat it would be preferable for that
eafon to procure loans at home, even at
i higher rate of interest.
To this, feveial answers may be given,
"ome of afpecial, others of a general na
:ure.
In reference to the reimbursement of
:he foreign debt, it may be observed, that
is a debt had already been incuried abroad
ipon which .ntereft was payable, the con
trailing of new loan? there for the reim
burfement of that debt, would leave u>,
is to the denial,d for the exportation of
jur specie, just where we originally stood.
Moreover if the money could have been
jorrowed at home, for that re'nnburfe
nent, the remittance of it would hav.
leen ruinous to the country. The mere
leceffity of remitting could not alone
lave mere-fed the foreign demand fur
jur commodities ; so as to deduce from
in extra exportation of them, the reqni
ite means of pavment ; and if our specie
ivas to perform the office, the countiy
would speedily have been exhaijfted to a
fegi ee irconfiftent with the fapport of it
:o_mmerceand iiuluftry. The quantity of
:oin in the United States has never been
ronfiderable enough for such ail opera
ndi.
But this very ftaie of things would
have rendered the procuring of the 1110-
ley from domestic resources impracticable.
Thtfe it may be fafely affirmed are too
limited for extensive loans, of any confi
ilerable degree of permanency.
In the last place—The expedient of do
mestic loans, would not oreveni the evil,
which is delired to be prevented. Fo
reigners would either in the firft instance,
bring their monies to (übferibe them to
the loan-, or, they would afterwards pur
chase the Hock arising from them ; and in
either cafe they would equally draw away
the money of the countryon account oftl.eir
interest and principal. The only confe-
of giving a difpropoi donate rate of
S A T U R D A Y, March 2, 1795.
interest for domestic loins would be. that
our specie would be carried, away so much
the fafter.
Experience having (hewn, that nations
fometiines pay more regard to their ex
ternal than to their internal credit, this
confi4eration co-operates with reasons of
convenience to induce monied men abroad,
to be coment with a lower rate of inte
rest, stipulated to be paid in their own
country, than if the place of payment be
in another country ; making even a great
er difference, than is an equivalent for the
expence and risk of obtaining remittan
ces.
Th : clear inference from these obferva
lions, is that with regard to the reimburfe
tnent of the foreign debt, no other expe
dient than that of foreign loans was prac
ticable or eligible.
Th? utility of that part of the loans,
which has reference to the purchase oi
the debt, has already been explained ir
:ertain Views. So far as their agency ha:
jeen hitherto concerned in that operation,
it is a fnlficient demoaftratio'.i of the advan
tage of the measure toftate, that the sum
inverted in purchases up to the period
as the !afl report to Congress has redeem
ed what is equal to an annuity of 6.15
per cent, including also the advantage of
inking a capital more than 50 per cent.
;reatcT than the sum expended.
A valuable profit will arise from the in
feftment of the funis on hand, either in a
jayniei.t to the bank or in the purchase
jfftoefc. The liberation of an annuity of
ix percpnt. can be secured —while upon a
;reat part of tliefund which is to effetl it
10 more than 4 1-2 per cent, is payable,
ind lefi than 51-2 upon the other part.
The mean of these rates beiqg 5 per cent,
in annual favipg of one per cent- may be
?ftetled, which upon 2,000,000 of dollars,
ntereft at 5 per cent, is equal to a capi
tal or gross sum of 400,000 dollars : an
tem certainly of no inconsiderable confe
rence.
Against the advantages, which are
tlaimed in favour of the loans, it is natu
ral to place the loss of interest incident to
:he delays, which have attended their ap
plication to the purposes, for which they
were obtained. This leads to an exami
lation of the cases of delay,their causes.the
:ircumftances if any, which counterba
lance them.
There are three instances of material de
—one refpeoVuig the firrt loan, another
the fecund loan, and a third, a part of the
two last loans.
The firft loan, it will be fern, was npt
applied till a coniiderable time after its
commencement. It has been already in
timated that it was undertaken without
previous authority from l;his country —
t"he motives to the meafu.i e are detailed in
a letter from our bankers of the 2jth of
January, i79Q,acopyof which accompa
nies the communications herewith made
by order of the Prefirfent. A regard to
'hofem tivesled to an acceptance of the
ioan. Nor could it have been denned an
unfortunate circumstance, that fucli an
auxiliary to the operations of the treasury
had beenprevioufly p.epared.
The laws authorizing the'loans, passed
the 4th and 12th of August. As early as
the 28th of that month, the acceptance a
bove mentioned was communicated, and
the application of 1,500.000 florins, in a
payment to France directed. So far no
:1 me was loft, more than could not have
seen avoided.
But the bills for the sum to be brought
iiere were not drawn till some months af
ter. This proceeded from an unwilling
ness to risk the public credit, by drawing
before there was a certainty of funds to
answer the drafts. It was not impossible,
that the great delay which had attended
the parting of the law for borrowing, might
have led the bankers to come to some ar
rangement with the money lenders, for
surrendering the monies paid in, and ter
minating the loan. Independent of this
source of apprehension, they had expressed
themselves, in their letter communicating
the step they had taken, to this effeiV —
•' To i'pare the United States all poflible
advance of interest, while the money shall
remain unappropriated, we fliall issue the
recipilTes at the option of the buyers t<
take them Jo late as they please, on the
expectation the three millions would be
placed in a few-months." This, though
it announced an expectation that the mo
nies would be paid in, in a few months,
did not render the event certain. And as
[Total No. 14.0.]
the bankers appeared from that precauti
on, to have adverted to the idea of saving
the United States an advance of interell,
it was ftippofieable t.bat they might have
found means still further to procrastinate
the payments, or a considerable part of
them, rill they had received a confirmati
on of the loan. This policy \yould have
been the more natural, as they risked the
loss of interell themselves, if the transac
tion fliould not have been finally ratified.
Under such circumflances I thought it
most prudent to defer the drafts, 'till ad
vice was received of the a&ual progress of
the loans. There was no room to hesitate
between the loss of a small fuiTi in intereil,
and the danger of committing the public
credit by a premature operation.
(To be continued.)
For the National Gazkute,
To JONATHAN JUSTICE, alias, C -
DEFAMER.* ' '
r\NE evening this week I fell in acciden-
tally with several of my old friends
«nd acquaintances. The National Ga
zette lying on the table, one of the com
pany took it up, and alked the others, if
:hey knew David Jqnes ?—The great' 4
:r part said, they knew'him well; and <>n
jfficerof thePennfylvania line asserted that
le had served with him all the war, that
le was no coward, but that a coward in a;i
inmauly manner had abused him; and
she knew the person, he would bellow
ipon him due & wholesome chaltifement,
as a reward for his libel.
AllEGitaus said he had been well ac
quainted with Jonathan more than 20 years
rod if he had for once acted like an honefl
nan, in appending his real name to his pub
lications, every person acquainted with
aim would have known his reaforis, and
ivou'.d have heartily drfpifrd him.
enlarged on the fubjeft, very little t<? tbe
llonor of Jonathan, and said he was always
making mistakes in his writings, such us
lating a letter at Fort Pitt, which
written in Philadelphia, and now he
tvoold make the world think he lived in
Shelter county, when In fail he resides in
New-Jersey, where he has a farm, obtain
ed bythe magic of continental money.—
But previous to this, he was one of those
nonorable citizens in Philadelphia, knows
jy the qame of bankrupt.
One of the company, named Ohianus,
aeggedto be informed by the others, if
:hey knew why Jonathan was provoked
with Mr. Jones's publications, feeing not
but meafur.es, were his object, and
:hat, like an honest man, hp signed hii
[lame to his writings ?
I know very well (replied Alleginius)
Jonathan's reason for being angry with
Vlr. Jones, as well as with governor St.
Clair. The reasons (continued he) are
partly the fame, viz. neither of them
ellablilhed Indian J overeig'.ty, which is a
capital object vith Jonathan- He then
proceeded to inform the company that
Jonathan and his friends had many Indian
ieeds, which if he could once establish,
Jonathan and those friends votild be aIL
nabobs. But poor Jonathan was an un
fortunate man. and notwithllanding his
jefiiitical cunning, things always termina
ted contrary to his willies, which had al
most ruined his temper. Alleginius went
un with his ftory,and inforpied the com
pany, that Jonathan had applied to Eng
land to have his deeds recognized, but that
th.e war came on. and, unhappily for Jona
than, terminated to the disadvantage of
old England ; that then Jnnathan&his ac
complices applied to Congrefs.butCongref*
could not, for their fouls, fee into the juf-'
tice of his Indian deeds, and they obffinate
ly refufed t® acknowledge the sovereign
ty of the t/rai<e Aborigines of America.
How blind nm{J Congress be !—Jona
than is a man of perseverance : he more
than once made his experiments on the
legislature of Virginia ; but they were as
obllinate as pongrefs, laughed hearti
ly at Jonathan's vanity.
Now (said Alleginius) when you conli
der Jonathan's situation, you 111-y discern
the reason why his malice propenfe "flames
out against all who do riot favoilr his
schemes.—Jonathan is a man of fciiemes ;
hence, if one fails he pursues another.
But hitherto he has been very unfortunate.
More than three years ago, Jonathan un
dertook a crusade, down the Ohio, to the
* See Nc.tiur.alGczettg, of February c,Mifiifippi, and, as he never much loved to
work himfeif, he employed some Sh:.\ ane.
Indians to go with him, at the price (it is
said) of ole dollar per day : Btit tha boli
nefs he went upon'iiot proving fticcefiful
Jonathan forgot to pay the " brave' abo
rigines.''''
Some of them returned to. the Miami, to
Judge Svmmet's station, and related the
whole affair to the Judge, and infilled on
payment. The Jud.-e told one of them h.
had no connexion with Jo mthan ; to which
the " brave aborigine''' replied,He had been
a gSod friend to ths white folks, b: t, if this
is the lyr.y of them, he would be a friend no
logger /" The conlcqilence was. that ia
a few days af:er, Mr. Milliard's son \\ a.
killed nrnr the llation, and hostilities com
inenced that settlement. Had Mr.
Jones known this, he might have given it
a- an operating cause of war with these
friendly Indians.
OHIAN JS said, he hid heard this fame
flory at fort Washington and at Columbia
Upon this narrative, the company decla
red they were now well fati fied with the
reafo is of Jo lathan's publications, and eve
ry one exprefled his abhorrence of such de
fam ition, and requeued me to let the pub
lic know the story. But (fays Alleginius)
I have not yet done : You fee why Jona
than is enraged with Mr. Jones, ami, in
part, why he is so swollen with malice a
gainit Governor St. Clair : But there is
another reason to be affigued for his mind's
enmity again'! St. Clair, which is this—
Jonathan had high expe£tations of being
appointed Superintendaut of fidian Af
fairs ; but, to his great mortification, AR
THUR St. CLAIR was the person fixed
upon. Had Jonathan been the man, he
would doubtless have pursued every mea
sure to edablilh I.idian importance, and all
with a view to have his Indian Deeds re
cognized—for these Deeds influence all
Jonathan's movements.
It is said, Jonathan has now by him a
new scheme, which is, to fnggeft that the
Indians mult have some person of their no
mination to appear at the next treaty, to
have matters fairly explained; and Jona
than expects to be the man to eflabliih In
dian fuvereignty. And then the Deeds will
b'crecommeaded by the ■'■brave aborigines''''
once more !
Jonathan seems to be in a fever about
Indians. Sometimes he fays the war may
be called a child of the governor of the
Weflern Territory; at other times he
bl -m the Secretary of War, and at lad,
as tire summit of his climax, ascends to the
I'reii : nt, who. it seems, has imprudently
fentfoine degrading melfigesto the "brave
aboriginesßut the I dian Deeds the In
<iian Deeds, are his object ! Could the In
dia.i deed i by any means be recognized,
ALI. WOULD BE WELL.
It may be supposed that Jonathnnis now
hard at work to get himfeif nominated to
act as the confidential friend of the brave
aborigines. The Indian Deeds will make
h!:;i faithful againlt the country : but, very
little confidence can be pi iced in any man
in his situation, to do any jultice which will
operate against th'e DEEDS. Jonathan
knows whether Alleginius has been rightly
informed—Be that as it may, he fpokevery
positively. frequently quoting chapter and
verse, and requeuing me to transmit the
conference for publication.
PHILALETHES.
Feb, 27, 1793-
FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
LONDON, January 9.
M. Le Brim's [French secretary for fo
reign affairs J report to the National Con
vention 011 the situation of affairs.between
Great-Britain and France.
" The Britilh parliament, which had
been prorogued to January, has been fud
denly aflembled: the feflion was opened on
the 1 3th of this month. This extraordi
nary measure naturally called the atten
tion of government to its cause, and its
co.ifequences. It is my duty not to leave
the National Convention ignorant of what
1 have been able to discover. A little as
ter the immortal day of theiothof Au
gud and the change produced upon that
occasion in the form of our government,
the Engliih ministry were pleased to put a
flop to all official communication with us,
and to recal their ambafiador ; either be
cause they were persuaded that the dayiof
counter revolution and of our slavery
were near, or solely, as the illustrious ora
tor of the oppofit on (Mr. Fox) ingeni
ously said, on tfie .firlt day of the fefflon,
because they thought it unbecoming and
unworthy of the royal majedy of Britain,
to have a representative to an extcutive
council, the members of which had not
been anointed from the ("acred phial at the
grand altar of Rlieims. Whatever be the
caule, the provilional executive council did
not think proper to follow the fame proce
dure—'they continued to keep, at London,
a minider of the French republic, whom
t'ley charged to seize every occasion to af
ftire the F.nglifh nation, notwithflanding
the ill-humour of their government, that
the French people delired mod ardently to
merit their esteem, and to preserve that
good undo.-{landing and friendfliip, which
ought ever to unite two free and generous
nations-
l_ 1
"The National Convention have re
ceived upon different occasions, ltriking
tedimonics of the re ciprocity of these good
dispositiOns,. and of the lincere interelt
w lliclrthe Ettgiillt people take in the l»c
---cels of our arms, and the triumph of
Fi cneh liberty.
'• But these fame glorious event* produ
ced a very differe t eft'eft 011 the minittry
of St. James's. In a iliort time fear, or
jealousy of our victories ; the felicitations
of our base rebel:.; the vile intrigues of
hodile courts; and a secret umbrage in
spired by the numerous addrefies of lelui
: tion which came to us from all parts ot
England, determined them to adopt milita
ry pec par: lions less ambiguous ; and ab
ruptly to affemblc Parliament.
The National Convention will fee by
the king's speech, of v\hich I subjoin a
tfanflation, that the hodile measures,
whicn are chiefly and ollciilibly directed t<
oppose the popular ferment which had lor
some time discovered uf-lf in England, are
likewile, to a certain degree intended a
gainil France, as several accufaiions art
thrown out, of which wc. cannot millakt
the application, notwithltanding the vague
manner in which they are presented.—
When the moment lliall come to reply to
those accuiations, it will be easy lor the
French government fully to juflify itfelf. It
will not fear to appeal to the judgment ol
all Furope—to the teflimony of Pin liini
felf. It will then be seen who ought real
ly to beaccufed of having sown, by cor
aptinggold, didrult, commotion and dis
order.
" Truly, if the agents, even these ac
knowledged by their court, whom wc keep
in England, could have been really sus
pected of those arts which are only em
ployed by weak minds—if their conduct
had not always been circumfpeift and loyal,
can it be believed that the members of the
Engliih ministry would have delired to fee
them confidentially, to communicate witli
them, to grant them secret conferences ?
I will fubinit to those committees wlion
the National Convention may appoint, ex
a£t details of those conferences, of the
complaints, the objections, the answers,
the offers and propositions which have
been made on both fides : the inttruftions
which have been given to our agents in
th fe delicate circumltances; and ladly,
the ftatc of the armaments which have
been ordered.
"From this llatement it will appear that
these armaments, as yet, need not alarm
us, fnce they amount only to four ihips ol
the line more than the edablifliment oi
>0. mer years : lince, of the sixteen fliip
which are in a {late to ast, there are at
lead ten known by the name of guard
.hip 1 ", the oldest and word of the Englifii
navy ; finally, fnce the king has declared,
that the armament will not be attended
with any additional taxes, and w ill be de
frayed by the funds destined for the annual
reduction of the national debt.
" It will likewile appear that the griev
ances which serve as a pretext for these
armaments, may be reduced to three
heads, namely,
" I. The opening of the Scheldt.
" 11. \ our decree of 19th Nov.
" 111. The intentions imputed to the
French republic refpecling Holland.
" An answer w is given to the firlt point,
by arguments founded on the righ T s of na
ture. o' i the rights of nations, and on the
principles of jutice and liberty, which the
French nation has consecrated, and the full
and entire enjoyment of which it could
not refufe to tlje Belgians It was replied,
that treat es extorted by avarice, and con
ferfted to by despotism, could not bind the
Belgians, restored to fret dom and liberty—
an answer was given by tint filen e which
England itfelf observed in 1 85, when the
fame queltion was hoftilely agitated by
Joseph II
" To' the second complaint an answer
was given by the frank explanation of the
eal intentions which animated the Na
oiial Convention, when they palled the
beneficent decree There are two very
diftintt cases in which tnis decree may find
its application, either towards the people
ho re under the dominion of those pow
ers with whom we are at war, or with rc
fpect to countr.es governed by powers ab
solutely neutral. I a these there can be no
difficulty ; in the firlt cafe, the decree
finds it - application in a direct manner, and
in the utmod extent, and no foreign power
whatever can find fault'with it. In the
second cafe it is clear, that the intention of
the National Convention was never to en
gage themfelvet to make the cause of a
few foreign individuals the cause of the
whole French nation ; but when a people
fubjefled to a despot, lliall have the courage
to break their chains ; when this people,
restored to liberty, lliall have conllituted
themselves in such a manner as to clearly
manifed the expression of the general will ;
and when this general will fliall call to its
affidance the fraternity of the French na
tion, it is then that the decree of Novem
ber 19 naturally si ids its application, and
we doubt whether it can appear strange to
any one. It is then that we give to a na
tion newly made free, a support which we
ourselves would have delired, and which,
perhaps, we fliould have had a right to ex
pea from another free nation. To this
general answer an cbfervation was added.
which relates more particularly to the re
proach thrown out againlt us ill respect to
Holland—it was, that it is much to be de
sired that the Britiih ministry had never
interfered with the interna! government o!
that republic, which they -have aflliVed to
subjugate, and with which we'ourfelve
do not wifli to interfere.
" In (hort, Citizen Prelident, I have
charged the miniiter of the French republic
at London to demand a new conference
with Lord Grenville, who has the depart
ment of foreign all'airs, and, after renii <1-
.ing him of the futility of all the complaint'
against 1 then have authorised him tc
deel .re, in the nameof the French Repub
lit, that it, contrary to expectation, tht
intention of the miniiter of St. James's b<
to oicafion a rupture at any rate ; a., we
ihall have exhau!ted all the explanation:
eceflary for demonflrating the purity o:
>ur views, and our respect for the indepen
dence of other powers ; as it will be evi
dent thatthis war is only a war oftheßri
tifti minillry alone against us, we (hall no 1
faij to make a folenm appeal to the Englifl
;.:tion ; that we lhail refer to the tribuna
ot its jufticeand generolity, the examina
tion ot a cause, in which a great nation wil
be seen supporting the rights of nature, o
justice, ot liberty, and of equality, again!
a ministry who will have created thisquar
rel only from motives of pure persona
conveniences j that, in fine, we will con
ftitute the Englilh nation the judge be
tween us and them ; and thus the exami
nation of this process may lead to confe
quences which the Britifii minillry have no
forefeen.
" I expert the result of this declaratian
and I will take the earliest opportunity o
communicating it to the National Conven
tion."
Jan. 10. —We learn that the whole mi
litia of the kingdom is fliortly to be callei
out. The number of the militia of Eig
land and Wales, when completely embo
died, amount to 30,840.
Every measure of the Britifb cabine
seems preparatory to war. The utinol
energy pervades every department of tb
state, with whiJi it is falisfa£tory to fe
that the spirit of the people keeps pace.
For the National Gazette.
Number. IV.
notwithstanding the infoien
oppolition of an aristocratic junto, t
every enquiry of the people refpe£ti>:
public affairs, free citizens will not be dif
couraged : having drawn their concluiion
from known facts and experiments, the
will think it their duty to give their opin
ions on every fubjeft, in which not oni
theinfelves, but their pollerity are inter
eiled.
Independent of the high injuflice 0
mortgaging the labour of polierity by
funding fyllem, hiltory will furmfh us wit
a knowledge 011 this fubjea well defervin
the attention of American Legislators.
In order to take a clear and comprehen
live view of the national debt of England
it must firll be premised, that after the re
volution, when her new connexions wit
Europe introduced a fytlem of foreig
politics, the expences ef the nation no
only in fettling the new establishment, bu
in maintaining long wars as principals o
the continent, for the security of the Dim\
barrier, reducing the French monarchy
fettling the Spanish fuccefiion, fupportin
the House of Austria, maintaining the li
berties of the Germanic body, and othe
purposes, increased to an unusual degree
insomuch that it was not thought advifabl
to raise al! the esfpenfes of any one jear b
taxes to be levied within that year, leai
the unaccustomed weight of them fliouh
create murmurs among the people. I
was therefore, the policy of the times ti
anticipate the revenues of their pofterit
by borrowing immense funis for the cur
rent service of the State. A fyfl em w hie I
seems to have had its original in the Stati
of Florence, A D. ,344. This laid tin
foundation of what is called the nationa
debt. Hy this means the quantity of pro
pertyin the kingdom is greatly increafec
in idea compared with former times, ye
if we eroolly consider it, nor :t all increafee
In 1 eality We may boafl of large quantitie
of money in the iiinds ; but"where doe
this money exitt ? it exifis only in nan .
in paper, in public faith. But then « lu.
is the pledge which the public fiith ha
pawned for the security of those debts i
I lie land, the trade, and the personal in
dultiy of the people; from which the mo
ney mult: arise that supplies the fevera
taxes. In these therefore, and these only,
the property of the public creditors doe;
real y and intrirfffcally exit! ; and of course
the land, the trade, and the personal indus
try ot individuals are diminiftied in theii
ti ue value, juit so much as they are pledp
ed to answer. In short, the property of i
: creditor of the public, conlifts in a certair
portion of the national taxes : by how
much therefore, he is the richer, by ft
much the nation which pays those taxes, i:
the'poorer. It is indisputably cer r ain, thai
the present magnitude of the national debi
of England is productive of the o.reateft in
conveniences. For firtt, the enormoir
taxes that are raised upon the neceiFaries oi
iife for tiie payment of the it.terefi: of tjil.
i debt, arc a hurt both to trade and manu
factures, by railing the price as well of the
artificer's subsistence, as of tiie raw mate
rial, and of course, in a much greater pro
portion, the price of the commodity itfelf.
Secondly, if part of this debt be owing to
foreigners, they draw out of the kingdom
annually,' a considerable qir: n'.ty of specie
for the interelt Thirdly, if the whole be
owing to citizens, it is then charging the
active and int uilrions citizen who pays his
(hare of the taxes, to maintain the indolent
and idle creditor, who receives them.
Lafily, and principally it weakens the
internal flrength of a Itare, by anticipating
those resources \\ hic'n fliould be reserved
to defend it in cal'e of necefllty.*
The public funds of the different indebt
ed nations of Europe, particularly those of
England, have by one author been rcpre
fented as the accumulation oi . great capi
tal, fuperadded to the other capital of the
country, by means of which its trade is ex
tended, its manufactures multiplied, and
its lands cultivated and improved much be
yond what they could h..v<.- been by means
of that other capital only. ! e does not
conlider that the ippit'! which the jfirft
creditors of til • public advanced to govern
: ment, was from the moment in which they
advanced it, a certain portion of the i.mu
1 al produce turned away from serving in
the function of a capit 1 to I'erve in that of
a revenue; from maintaining productive
labourers, to maintain 11 ip odu -rive ones,
and to be spent and walled, generally-ill
t the course of the year, without even the
hope of any future reprodm liqn.
When for defraying tie expence of go
i' vernment a revenue is raised within, the
■ year from the produce of free or nnmort
gaged.taxes, a certain portion of the reve
■ nue of private people is only turned away
1 from maintaining one fpecjes of unproduc
■ tive labour towards maintaining another.
• The public expence however, when de
frayed in this manner, no doubt hinders
t more or less the further accumulation of
t new capital ; but it does not necefiarily
; occasion the definition of any a£lually ex
; ifting capital.
The peace revenue of Great-Britain a
mounts at present to more than ten mil-
I lions a year. If free and unmortgaged it
might be fuflicient with proper manage
ment and without contracting a (hilling of
new debt, to carry on the inoft vigorous
war. The private rev enue of the inhabit
t ants of Great-Britain is a: present as much
> incumbered in time of peace, their ability
; to accumulate is as much impaired as it
- would have been in the time of the molt
s expensive war, had the per, iziout Jyftem of
i funding never beer. nd> / ted.
In the payment of the interefV of the
1 public debt, it has been said, it i- the right
- hand which pay the left. It is only a pnrjf
of the revenue of one let of the inhabitants
f which is transferred to anctlur. This a-
J pology supposes that the whole public debt
i is owing to the inhabitants of the country,
I which happens not to be true. I'ut though
the whole debt w ere ow ing to the inhabit
- ants of t!.e country, it would not upon that
account be less pernicious.
The farmer is interefled f<T the fake of
i his.own revenue to keep his eflate in as
i good condition as he can, Jjy building and
t repairing his houses, by making ar.d rnain
t taining the neceflary drainsand encioftii ej,
i and all those other expensive improven ents
l which it properly belongs tc , good hus
bandman to make and maintain. Fit l;y
I different taxes the revenue of the fanner
may be so much diminifhec!; .:d 1 y differ
' ent duties and excises upon ihe mc- fTaries
; and conveniences i ♦ life, tin t din.ii ifhecl
revenue may be rendered of so little real "
■ value, that he may find himfUf altogether
i unable to make or maintain those expensive
I improvements, without which agriculture
: tnuft dccline.
The pr iflice of funding has gradually
enfeebled every slate which has adopted it.
The Italian republ cs leeirf to have begun
i it. Ge oa and Venice, the only two re
-1 maininrr « liich can pretend to an indepen
dent exigence, have both been enfeebled
by it. The republic of the United Pro
> inces is as much enfec bled by its debts as
either Genoa or Venice. Is it likely that
in Great-Britain alone, a practice which
lias brought either weaknejs cr dijolation
into every o'her country, fliould prove al
> together innocent ?
The foregoing observations contain the
opinions of Judge Blackftone and Adam
Smith, on the important subject of public
debt : both court writers, who therefore
would fay aS little as possible againfla sys
tem which is fondly cherifl cd by all thp
courts in Europe, j Altho' the dangerous
prerogative of the Crown of England is di
minished, yet it has acquired almost an un
united influence by means of banks, public
debt, and a fyfrem of finance connetled
with excises and othertnd reft taxes upon
the neccflaries of life. I These several sys
tems have undoiibtediv contributed to flip
port the po<\ er of courts, and to cherish
the principles of ariflocracy in every go
vernment in which they have been titab
lifhed.
An AMERICAN FARMER.
Feb. 27, 1793.
* Blackflone's Commentaries, Vol. I-
Eook I. ch. S.For tie National Gazette.
Nvmbe,l V.
/CONSCIOUS of not being ft'mjulatcd i 1
J the minute!! degr - \ by a personal <> • i
private motive, I will yet proceed in the
difiipation of tliofe clouds which have been
intrrpofed between the true deligni of th •
Secretary of the Treasury and the public
cognizance.
Two laws exist, one for borrowing
12,000,000, and the other 2.000.000 of dol
lars, 011 different terms, for different ob
jeits, and on the credit of different funds.
The Prelident of the United States isin
veiled with the folepower of directing anc
applying theie loan , and could as legallj
have resorted to the agency of another, a:
of the Secret 1.7 of the Treasury. The
law conft'nuting the Secretary's office, die
not invert him with the cl aimed latituh
ofdi/cretion," whith would in every cak
amount to a power of leg illation.
The Secretary was only inverted with J
prefer bed power. It is defined and limi
ted bv t -e President's inlirnctions, which
have n v appeared, to the borrowing ol
money for the sole purpose of dilcharging
the French debt.
But the Secret.:ry, being let in upon the
loaning bufiaef:-, immediately blends the
two lav stogether, and betrays, bv disre
garding the real power.entrurted to him-x
On the very <! .y of receiving this powei
from the Prelident, the Secretary difclofei
hisrefo'ution to hold in contempt both tht
laws and his inductions, in the followins
extract of his letter to the public banker:
in Holland, d'ted July aS, 1-90.—"!
Ihould also with for particular reasons, tba
the business may be regulated o as to give
it the firm of two loans, one for 2,000,0 re
florins, under the firft ast, and the other sot
1.000.c00, under the fVcond- But-neithei
about this inn I fofolicitoiis as to be tvil
ling it Ihould conllitute an cmbarraf
ment.
The little folicitv.de exhibited in this let
ter, flowed from part ,:Jar reajons, 110;
fromthe tninuteft inclination to obey tht
laws and the inrtructions. An inyreffior
of this kind would have delineated itfell ii
the following " In obedience tc
law—to fpei ial appropri: to :; —t > the dil
tinft terms of loaning—and to explicit (ii
rellious this day received from the Pre
fider.t, I am bound to make separate loan'
under the separate laws, but at present m\
powers only go to borrowing tor the pay
ment of the French d^bt-"
The particular reajom which produced
the letter, were the designs which the Se
cretary had formed of exceeding his pow
ers bv d.'j'.ying money to America, as a
pretext for which, he withed that 1,000,00 c
cf fiori:;. fhonld be arranged ' to give u
• {fa form''' 1 of a loan under the law, foi
aiding in this manner a deficiency of t e
finking fund. But knowing that this defi
ciency. the only substantial reason for bor
rowing, did not e:ult, and hav.ing yet de
termined to break down every barrier, ei
ther legal, constitutional, or executive, tc
get at the calli, he is not ''/o felicitous" as
to il the form , 1 * a> that it Ihould be pro
ductive even of an " embarrajfrnent."
The national gratitude finds in this in
rtance a new occalion for commemorating
the virtues of the Prelident. He does nol
empower the Secretary to draw this mo
ney hither, because neceflity did not urge
it, and it was a violation of every princi
ple of oeconomy. But the Secretary da
ringly perpetrates what the Prefidenl
would not fanftion, and relies upon pre
ten. es to befurnilhed by the chaptefol ac
cidents, out of which to compile a defence
The Prelident probably - knew that tht
finking fund had even overflowed from it!
domertic resources, and that it coi tainec
even now a surplus ol above 400,000 dol
lars.
Whilst this fact evinces that the Secre
tary conceals from the Prelident his poli
tical intrigues, it :dfo proves that he is I ;-
ing up a ltock of personal influence, to be
tiled as occasion Ihould require. And thai
no lymptom of respect for the executive
appear . as a set off 'gainst his total disre
gard of the legislature.
Appropriations 0/ money by law, are ol
afaued nature. They are tile conftrtu
tion.il barriers againlt pecuniary abuses,
executive ufnrpations, and military despo
tism. Hallowed as they are in the eyes oi
the Prelident, the brilliant example can
not arreit the fyflem of the Secretary. He
prottrates every barrier provided for the
preservation of liberty, because it is his ob
. jec> to deitroy it.
W The suspending power exercised bj
Charles the ift, was inferior to that con
tended for and exercised by the Secreta
ry. Charles only affiimed the right of ar
resting the execution of a law : the Se
cretary both annihilates and enafls, "ai
eccafion Jhould require
The laws give the power ofdirefting the
loans to the Prelident- He employs the
' Secretary as his agent, withprecije instruc
tions limiti' g his powers. And the Secre
tary, to life his own words, usurps " a
, considerable latitude "of anci
acknowledges no rertraint, except such
"as occasion ftiould require.'''' Wherein is
this usurpation inferior to an unchecked
power of legiflaticn ?
With all the earnestness of one contend
ing in his own canfe, the Secretary enters
if.to a laboured defence or the laws tot
loaning, and yet he impeaches their fnffi
ciency or efficacy, by (fating and infiftii'.o
•>a his own emendations. Hear his lan
guage.—" He appropriated a part of the
(jans to France. 1 His conriuft was influ
enced "by collateral co'ifiderations —
Tho' he varnishes over his intrlifion into
the legislative province, by a flourilh about
piifUlanimity 'and- feeble conduit," hi
mblications do yet abound with legijlotive
language. How can the man love the
1 iws or the constitution, who all rts " that
it is pulillanimous and feeble," to obey
them.?
The Secretary's words and aJtions unite
to exhibit a contempt for the legislature
and the constitution, which can only be e
tjualled by his obvious difrelpeft for the
President. He treats the whole as beings
>f his own creation, and in moulding th. m
into whatever form he pleases, admits no
.'liraint but " occasion" upon "a confi
iirabh latitude of discretion."
In atjembling the apologies for drawing
the great film of money from Holland, it
.5 alledged by the Secretary, that 500,000
lollars ought constantly to be in the b .nk
jr the treasury, to answer sudden and un
forefeen emergencies: whereas one great
irgument for the establishment of a bank,
was, that it would occalionally advance
temporary loans, a> the public neceflities
required. And 60th these arguments are
resorted to by the Secretary, tho' it must
be confe{led, 011 different occasions.
A reliance on a blind faith of Congrefi
in his sCiUP-Cnres. could only have encou
raged the Secretary to resort to such ar
guments. For there is certainly some dif
ficulty in proving, that the borrowing of
100,000 of our own dollars of the bank,,
for the fake of keeping 500,000 beforehand
in the bnnk, corre ponds with his argil
merits in favor of that inftituiion. .
Equally difficult is it to Ihew, that the
t'libjeqiitr t event of an Indian war was his
motive for 1 ving previa,ifly adopted the
bill drawi g bulinefs. A motive which he
conceals f; Mil Congress, when they are
[earthing fund?, with which to defray
the expence of that war.
The Secretary is therefore now evident
ly ccn j■: .ring, concerning his own 1110-
:ives, bin lie overlooks one, which is more
than coujecture : and it is one which will
leither admit of a chronological refuta
tion, or conflict positions laid down upon
mother occasion;
A motive for drawing this money hither,
iv as to favor paper men of every denomi
nation. But, principally, to be prepared
.0 keep up the price of certificates, thro'
the medium of the finking fund, and to ad
l)iniiter seasonable aids to the tottering
;r dit of the bank. Himfelf and his fa
llite-i have seriously argued, that it was
jeneficral to do this at the public expence.
Left the holders fliould fell to foreigners
i 'low par, the public, fay they, should pay
''1 e dijference. Landed men, are you wil
ing to be taxed for this purpose, unless
tompeiifation is made by devoting a por
tion of the public money, equal to what is
,ifed in keeping up the price of certificates,
to the more beneficial object of keeping up
the price of your wheat?
To escape that compilation of perplex
ity, prepared by the Secretary to entrap
the unwarv, and for the fake of perfpicu
ty I will subjoin a catalogue of some few
:>f his political fins, leaving the public to
.heir own commentaries.
1. The Secretary was inclined to mo
narchy in the general Convention, and in
tead of facrificing his principles at the
hrine of the Constitution, is endeavouring
:o difieminate them, by administering gild
ed pills to influential charaffers.
2. Hefofters exorbi nt wealth, topro
i ide an ariltocracy as the harbinger of mo
narchy.
3 He a flumes the reputation of a great
inancier, uliiHt he i, secretly man p,i.;s
tjublic monies, for the purpose of eftablifli
ng undue influence.
4. He hath deceived the President froir
lis j'alfe representations, into a public en
jomiiini on the slate ot the finances, and ;
rupciition to commence the reduction, ol
iie debt, whillf that debt is accumulating—
■.vhilft he is feiretly using borrowed mo
lies to pay its interest—and altho' he ha
ven proposed to borrow 800,000 dollars of
the bank, tor the service ot the current
5. He recommends with ardour to the
egiflature, the itrict inviolability of the
inking fund, whilst its fanftions are nc
•eftraint upon himfelf.
6. He uses this fund for the purpose ol
enhancing the price of certificates at th
public expence. out of favoritifm to specu
lators, whilst the people are deluded with
an idea, that it was designed to fink tiic
debt.
7. He has only permitted 957,776 dols.
I ( cents of this fund out of 1,374 656 dol
lars 40 cents, appropriated in 1790, to be
applied in two years, leaving a large sum
constantly in deposit for the purposes of
influence, and because the invelfiture ol
the whole money would have defeated his
object of effecting a permanent operation
in favor of speculators at the public ex
pence.
8. He has during the fame period drawn
hither f foin Holland 2,304,769 doK 13
cents by bills, and 1,8.53,189 florins paid for
the interest of the foreign debt contrary to
law (this i.itereft being payable out of our
domejtic £unds) under the,pretence ot it;
inj}rilm(ntality in aid of the linking hind,
altho* this fund is unexliaufted.
9. He is reduced to the ni ferable fhift
of letting off againtt the excels of this fun:
beyond the legal allowance to borrow.
Ihould occafioii require, two portions oi
clie French debt; pretending that it vva:
mcefary to draw money hither from Hol
land, i.i order to fend it back to Francc
a .id St. Domingo.
10. He hull drawn hither this money
njt only without the authority, but again],
the directions of the President.
11. He concealed from the legiflatun
his having done so, in violation ot an ex
press order ; exciting by thi* flagranl
breach of the conltitution, of ilie laws, ant
as his official duty, the molt alarming fuf
jicions.
12. He has deiignedly blended two law:
For borrow ing 0.1 different terms, to give
aim a greater scope in the mifapplicatioi
jf public monies.
13. Hc borrows of the bank, at an in
:ereft, monies which h? knew to belong t;
:he public, and for which the public wert
aaying latere ft in Holland.
14. He disobeys laws and disregards ap
propriations, claiming and exercifinga dif
retionary power, equivalent not only ti
egiflation, but subversive of the conftitu
:ion.
15. He'.afults theexeiutive by the mof
arompt disobedience.
16. He adventures, when afettlement o:
ii . accounts is moved for, outrageoiillyl'
nfringe the privilrges ot the house of re
arefent itives, and evinces the efficacy o:
lis measures by escaping with impunity.
17. And he crowns the whole by exhi
biting volumes of argument to the public,
nftead of figures, and thus wafting the fel"-
ion, lb as to defeat an enquiry designed tc
nformthe public mind,'upon the 1110 ft im
portant public fubieft-
Judge, citizens, whether the meafurt
of this man's poiitical iinlulnefs, is 1101
full.
It is a maxim, that 110 constitution ca:
:>e long preserved, unjefs incroachnient:
jpon its principles are nipped in the bud
What then is our danger, when Uiey arc
full blown ?
If Liberty is worth preserving, ever)
:lafs of citizens (the paper men excepted
aught to befummoned to unite linniy a. (
teadily for its preferv ti ''i. The agri
:ultural and labouring cI a ties, who alont
"upply the Ijxuries of exorbitant wealth
and are cheated by paper tricks, are devo
ted to burthens daily accumulating. Aru
-veil t-e fpecul'ators thrmfe'ves niuft joii
in a rt form, or be content with the misera
ble alternative of becoming tyrants 01
(laves.
FRANKLIN.
Feb. 27.
.uMBBHSV* f v . - '-*■«»« - - -
PHILADELPHIA.
Marck 2.
William Smith F.fq. is re-ele&ed a Re
presentative in Congress, for diitritt ol
Charlelton, S. C. TheoJorus 13aiiey.
Peter Van Gaatbeck, James Gordon.
Fzekiel Gilbert. Henry Gle. J. E. Vgr
Allen, and William Cooper. Esquires, ar<
chosen Heprefentatives 111 C.o o i\ Is for the
(late of New-York, who, in addition tc
the three former gentlemen nientionec
in our last papers, complete the Represen
tation from that state
Late letters from London mention tlie
death of Mr. Riiimey. in that capital. He
was a native of Mary land,-and well knowi:
both he: e and in Furope for his ingenious
mechanical inventions.
Hy veilLl from Cadiz, we learn the
Spaniards were fitting out a large fleet '111
January ; deltiiu tion unknown.
By account- from England, tile manning
of their new ly commissioned iiiips of war
<>oes >'i very heavily. For the tirft four
teen days in Jamiary the returns to the
admiralty amounted only to 750, a ttrong
proof that the brave tars no lpuger conlid
er themselves in the light of bull dog;
wliofe only life and end 11 to kill or be kil
led by Frenchmen.
Extract of a letter from a Gentleman in
this city to his friend in Virginia.
" The monarchical farce of the birth day
was as usual, kept up, but with this dif
ference, that great exertions were made to
render it important, andt,o impress a belief
that the republican dodrines which bad
been advanced were unfavorablyreceived ;
Like the collection of all the powers ot
nature, immediately befoie death, they in
dicated the conflict of expiring diftin£tion ;
Whatever may be the efforts of the mo
nocratic and aristocratic junto, truth, like
the morning fun breaking thro' the vapour;
exhaled by the r.ight.will chafe away everj
cloud which they have raised to overfha
dowit—To make the people of America
believe that the diftincfions and customs c,i
monarchy are necefiiiry to this country, ii
would be a firtt requilite that they fhouli
be untaught; for ignorance, combines
with corruption, always precedes the- ds •'
clenfion of republicanism—Hitherto they
have pafled over the absurdities- of levees
& every J pedes of royal pomp and parade,
because tliey \\ ere aflbdated with the man
of their affections, and perhaps, in hope*-
that they might serve as a new rattle,
which would amuse during its novelty, and
be thrown alide, when it was worn off;
but their own interell has at length con
quered the delicacy of their attachment,
and they begin to express their abhorrence
of the gewgaws of a court with the nian
linefs of freemen, who are resolved not to
erect a funeral pile for their liberties —tor-
rents of inventive and abuse have been
poured upon the authors of certain publi
cations which commented with proper
freedom upon the whole tiliiie of royal
tionfenfe.butina bad cause calumny gener
ally takes place of reason and argument,
md the asperity of aristocracy has given a
keener edge to thedoftrines of republican
fin —However profane the opinion twelve
months ago, that no man in our republic
tiould be above the criticism of the'prefs,
;he criminality of it at present is less hide
jus, and the man who maintains it begins
;o be thought orthodox—no truth can be
setter established than that of revelation,
ind yet christianity fuffercd the extremeft
lerfecution on its firlt introduction : thus
tis with every new truth thatJtrikesat the
-oot of popular prejudices, and thus it is.
with the republican truths which have late
ly been declared from the press—A hue
md cry has been rai fed again ft them, the
cruelty and injustice of them have been
painted in all the colours ot a poetic
imagination ; the President has been
pictured as spotless and infallible, as
having no likes or dislikes ; the glory
and atchievement of the late revolution
have been entirely imputed to him, and
were he virtue's felf, the strains of panegy
ric could not have been louder, in order to
compleat the (hame and disgrace of repub
lican dogmas —Great is the danger when
anti-republican culloms are sanctioned by
high authority; and (till g eater is the
Janger, when, to question the infallibility
of man is considered as criminal ; but, Sir,
freemen are to be deluded by such artifices,
no longer ; they are disposed to judge by
the unerring standard of right, and no lon
ger by the erring standard of affection. To
prove to you how great were the exer
tions, and how great the adulation, birth
day odes were circulated by the mana
gers of the Dancing Aflembly (who ap
peared as news boys upon the occa
lion) among the citizens, who had as
sembled to ftuifflle to the Prefident'i
honor —Ths od; contained the mod ful
fome flattery, and mull have been dif
•;iifting to every man of sense ; and as it
jppear'd to be the production of hard la
bour and costive brains, it was conjectured
that the managers had employed some
grubb itreet rhymer to fafhion it for them;
for . to do them justice, they were not
charged with even the management of the
muses. To add to the partial folly of the
xhibition, a foreigner ran about the af
fc-mbly room with his bundle of odes,
i rying out they will have a good effect,
they-will have a good effed \ as if the talk
of becoming the aristocratic Atlas, in this
country, had fallen upon his delicate Ihoul
(!ers —When the Noblejfe were obliged to
.etreat to such means, am I not licensed in
faying that great as well as little exertions
were made to blight the opening buds of
truth ? The Prelident did not attend the
ball, and the reason afligned for it was the
lolsof a favourite nephew ; but I am in
clined to believe that his real motives
were more prudential, and more to his
iionor—That some men who are inimical
to the equality of this country are \y idling,
to influence, can scarcely be questioned ;
and that they are the real enemies to him,
and notthofe who have spoken with the
candour of freemen, is a truth as well
established in my mind as the existence of
a deity—The time will come, unless a.
change (hould take place in measures, that
will give verification t-o this opinion, and
that will, perhaps, enforce a melancholy
conviction that a set of vipers have been
cherilhed, who, animated by a too indul
gent warmth, have struck their poison •
ous fangs into the placid bosom of peace
and virtue."
The Barracks in Perth Amboy,
Late the property of Major Richard Lloyd,
Deccajed,
WILL be rxpofed to public Tale on Monday
the firft day of April next at the house of*
John Thompson in Perth Amboy aforefaid ; f a ij
barracks are an elegant large brick building,
containing about 30 rocms, the middle house cf
*hich is three stories high—They are finely fitu
;ted commanding a beautiful profpedt of the
rown and furrour.ding waters —the lot on which
they stand, contains about one acre and an half in
which are two wells of excellent water—At the
fame time and place will be fold a water lei
and dock Jot lying in Perth Amboy aforefaid—-
for all which good titles (bv virtue of an order
of the Orphan court of the county of Middlesex)
will be given by
WILLTAM LLOYD.
NA'J HANIELKtR.
j^LtniriJlrators,
A Hen town ; Monnvoutli county, i ct. 25, |79' *
4JLONDON, January 5. —9
Some ingenious experiments are making
at present, by two clever mechanic, to
raiic the Royal G.orjt, which have been
attended with infinite success. Several i;uns,
) iltols, b yoatlj, Sic, have been taken from
the wreck ; and by means of a lantern
which keeps lighted under water, the diver
can fee the fituatioa of the ship and ex
amine every thing on deck. It is in
tended to lighten the vtffel as much a
pofiib'e, before the grand effort is made
to raise her from the deep. Should the
par,ies be fuccef»ful, of which they have
the molt fnngtiine hopes, they wili clear,
ai lealt, 20,0001. by the r indullry. The
cannon ire bra s, whicn wiil fullain little
i:;jury and there is, besides the usual ma
terials, a great quantitv of specie on board.
— Bets are now offered, that this ship will
be afloat before the expiration of the pre
sent year.
[[Heads of Intelligence jrom the Continent."]
Geneial Cudine I as returned to Mentz
with 40,000 men, determined to defend it
to the last extremity—the king of Prussia
and the Landgrave of Hesse advancing
upon him with 70,000 men—At Berlin,
warlike preparations going oh with the
utffioft alacrity, and every arrangement
making for a vigorous campaign early in
thefpring. On the Bth of December the
town of Koningftein, in pofleffion of the
French, was reduced to a(he6, by bombard
ment from the Prussians—the inhabitants
thereby reduced to beggary and misery.
Tne Elector of Hanover[George ITI Jhas
given orders to the regen v to fend on his
quota of troops, as his contingency for the
army of the empire. The Porte is arming
againit Ruftia, in hopes of obtaining some
advantages which they were compelled to
give up on making the last peace. The
General, Bournonville, is now mailer of
the whole territory between the rivers Sat
ard Mofclle: the heights of Vavrin,
guarded bv 3000 Auflrins, were taken on
the 12th v December, and the g?rrifon
difiodged. by 3 column of 1200 French
grenadiers only: The cliffs were covered
with snow.and the grenadiers were an hour
in zfcending : the Auflrians fled, leaving
a 7 pounder,-.car 900 killed and wounded,
too prif >ne s, and about 100 deserted.
The Nation .1 Convention has appointed
M. Genetl Ainbalfador to the United
States of America. M Le Brim, has de
dared to the National Convention, that
ttie SpanYi. Minifler had not concealed
from him, that one of the powerful mo
tives \vh ch had decided the king of Spain
to treat with France was, to be enabled to
influence the fate of the king, his cousin,
1. te Louis the 16th. The Fiench Com
mandant at Antwerp has written to the
London merchants, that the Scheld is
open to all trade, and promising protec
tion to all consignments, &c. made thro'
the medium of commerce on that river.
It seems to be the prevailing opinion in
Paris, that the sentence of the king will be
referred by the Convention to the rccon
of the Primary AfTemblies. The
next question is—whether the mob, who
are intent on his immediate death, will
permit such a reference. In either cafe, a
*erv serious tumult seems certain.
Letters from Paris, to Dec. 30, men
tion that the greatell quiet continues in
that capital, notwithstanding the resolution
paired in 3 feftious, to declare themselves
in a (late of infurre&ion if Louis is not
put to death the friends of tranquility and
justice are now fuffic ently numerous and
powerful to overawe the abettors of anar
chy.
" There is no longer a doubt that the
judgment of Louis will be referred to the
Primary AfTemblies of the republic, in
order to give more regularity and dignity
to that judgment which Europe is expe&
i ig with the moll anxious impatience —
The issue o» this interelling affair is there
fore flill uncertain ; i* is thought that moll
of the departments, if the decision is left
to them, will incline to banishment.—
Gen. Dumourier is in Paris, but the ob
ject of his journey was not reft, nor his
motive difconteiit, as reported. He is
very aflive with the executive council in
forming p'ans for the future operations o!
the army—a majority of the National
Convention has decided for at> appeal to
the Primary AfTemblies of the naton, in
legard to the fate of Louis—Joel Barlow,
(an Ameiican, from the (late of Connecti
cut) isileCleda member of the National
Convention for the department of Mont
Blanc. Tlie king of Naples has recogni
zed the pre font government of'FrarfcJ;
in tlie fame manner, and it is supposed, on
the fame grounds, that it is recognized
by Spain.—The king of Prussia is using
every effort to make a Hand rgainft the
F ench at Frankfort, and for undertaking
the fioge of Mentis, uhi Ii Gen. Cultine
had been lummoned to surrender, to which
he returned a spirited answer of refufal.
PRINCE EDWARD.
A letter from Canada informs, that a
confpracy had lately been discovered,
againlt the life of Prince Edward, fourth
son of George 111. and Colonel of the
seventh regiment of foot, now in that pro
vince The cause is supposed to have ori
ginated in the severity of discipline eftab
lifhed by the prince, and his repeated
whimsical alterations in the uniform and
equipments of his regiment, which occa
sioned many floppages in their pay : A
general meeting of the regiment it is said
had been agreed on,and the sfTaffination of
the prince ; which was to have been ex
ecuted in the following manner. A small
building n ar the prince's quaitet» was to
be set on fire, and an alarm given : three
of the conspirators were to lay wait and
fh&ot the prince on his appearance, and in
the midfl of the ennfufion, join their com
rades of the conspiracy, 60 in number,
provided with 60 rounds of cartridges
each, and make the belt of their way to
New England, by the new road, generally
called Arnold's road. The plot was re
vealcd t > the prince by one of the band of
music. who join ng in the mutiny, relented.
On receiving their information, the prince,
it is said, prepared to go to the barracks
perfedly undannted, but was dissuaded by
General Clark, the governor, who went
himfelf, ordered the regiment out, and
desired that all who were difTatisfied with
the prince would manifeft it by a certain
token, which it is afTorted, was given in
stantly, tiv all except the musician before
mentioned, and two others. The general
it is said then ordered three men of each
company to be arretted for trial, but their
fate w is not decideJ when our accounts left
Caiada.
The prince is said •to have indulged a
whim, limilar to that ofFiederick 111 of
Prussia, and to have embraced every op
portunity of procuring well built, large
men for l is regiment ; for this purpose he
bought ofFihe large men from other regi
ments, however abandoned in charafler,
procured the refufe of goals, and convicts
of every description, if of robull make and
tall, and on the whole had compacted the
tailed but word regiment, as to morals, in
the British service.
[ Vermont Gazette ]
Copy of a letter from an officer of rank in
the 1 .te American army of the Milfa
chufetts line, to the fecr.tary of the
general society of the Cincinnati; da
ted January 18, I 793.
S 1 R,
WHEN all Europe have their eyes fix
ed on France, and every one who rovctes
the Rights of i\Jan, is admiring the mag
nanimous conduct of the French—l was
the other day molt sensibly affedted on
reading the account of the conduit of Ge
neral D umouriEr, when he presented
himfel before the Nationr.l Convention,
in the month of Odtober last. This offi
cer, whose military and literary talents
place him in a moll conspicuous light,
and who cannot but nofTefs the molt lefi
ned sentiments of honor, as well as exqni
site feel.ngs for thole marks of approba
tion which are conferred on diltinguifhed
merit—than which nothing can be dearer
to afoldier ; yet this great and celebrated
Citizen General, in the pr fence of that au •
gult assembly, took the Crojs of St. Lout;
from his brealt, and made an offering of it
at the shrine of Liberty ; thereby indica
ting that he disdained to wear, among a
free and equal people, any mark of dif
tindtion, evidenced by an Order or Devise
which could be conllrued, repugnant to
Liberty and Equality,
If the Cross of St. Louis, long worn in
France as an emblem of the diltinguillied
merit of the wearer, isjudged by this great
man as improper to be worn in a Republic,
how canl,a citizen of the renowned.imcriean
Republic, allow my name to Hand affixed
to an Injlitution, or wear a Devise which is
conllrued by many of our fellow citizens,
the indication of an Order and dj/linnicm in
foeiety\ Animated Ly tin's recent example
fcflhe Gallic Citizen '-eneral, I do hereby
tt'queft, that you will he plsafed to erase
my nam' from the institution of the Society
of the Cincinnati ) as 1 do from this mo
rn tit, for myfelf, renounce the Inflitution•
At the fame time. I pray you be adored,
that an affeflion and edeem for every
brother Officer of the late American Ar
my, will continue to possess a warm corner
«f my h art, too deeply impressed to he
effaced, or to (land in need of the aid of
any Devtfe or fnjlitution,as remembrancers.
While we are celebrating in high fefti
vity, the condudt and successes of our
French friends, let U3, if not already prac
ticing, imiiate such of their examples as
appear evidently marked with propriety,
and calculated to eltablifh those principles,
which form the permanent balls of a gen
uine Republic.
With sentiments of refptcl, I am, &c.
Hon. Henry Knox, Efq Secre ~l
tarv of the General Society >
of the Cincinnati. J
OFFICIAL LETTER
From the French Republic to the United
States of North-America, dated at
Paris, Decceinber 22, 1792.
" President of the United States
of North-America.
"Amidst the dorms which buffet our
infant liberty, it is a comfort to the French
republic, to have communication with a
republic founded as her own. Our bro
thers of the United States Will no doubt
Save heard with gladness, the new revolu
tion, which overthrew that lall obdacle to
our liberty. This revolution was necessa
ry. Royalty was (till exifiing, and in eve
ry constitution where it exists there is no
true liberty. Kings and Equality are in
compatible with each other ; it is their bu-
Cmefs to conspire against equality, and
against the sovereignty of nations.
" The United States of America w'l
liardly credit it ; the support which the
ancient French court had afforded them to
recover their independence, was only the
Fiuit of base speculation ; theii glory of
fended its ambitious viewj, and the am
i iffadors bore the criminal orders of (top
ping the career of their prosperity.
" Nay, it is only between free nations
ha; (incere and fraternal treaties can be
Formed. The liberty which the French
republic wishes to redore to the nations
that /hall call for her afiiftance, will not be
polluted with (imilar stains; it (hall be
pure like herfelf
" The immense didance which parts us
prevents your taking, in this glorious re
generation of Europe, that concern which
) our principles and palt combats reserved
to you. Single and alone against the co
a it ion of kings, we have (hewn ourselves
worthy of being called your brothers ;
and the ignominious retreat of their com
bined armies, Gennappe, Spires, Savoy,
Flanders—all these successes ought to call
to your remembrance Saratoga, Trenton,
and York-Town.
" When will the final term of our drug
gies come ? We do not yet know; but
tree Americans, rely on our coutage and
perseverance; not a Frenchman shall re
main, or they diall all be free. L : berty
[hall become exlintt in Europe, or our
principles (hall triumph every where over
the league of despots They have raised
'lorms againll us even in your own hemis
phere ; tiiey have excited our islands to
ebellion, but our principles and our arms
("ill finally give them again calm and prof
verity The United States "have contri
juted towards it, by the ample relief they
lave afforded our colonies at a moment
vlien France was too remote to give them
upport. Thar.ks to you, generous A
nericans—it is a debt which the gratitude
if the French republic discharges with
leartfelt fatisfaftion.
" The time is doubtless not far didant
ivhen the colonies, iar from being a fubjeft
if eternal rivalfhip and war, will only be
i farther tie among nations. The time is
lot far diltdnt when found policy shall lay
Jown the basis of commerce, not on ex
:lufive intereds, but on the conjoint inter
;fts of all, and on the nature of tilings.—
It depends on the courage of the United
States to accelerate the happy moment,
ind the French republic will eagerly give
ler concurrence to all the efforts they
liall make far rivetting the political and
:ommercial ties of two nations, who can
10 longer have but one common fenti
nent, since their princ'ples and intereds
ire common and the fame."
7&ETEOROLOGICAL* G3SERV ATIQWS
February 1793-
. D. Hj Bar. \TierA!r, n l. \Wtarbir.
Tuefdjy, 19. , jo. 2/ 3, E.IC/Wy.
2 1 1° M 4' I E \P.am.
li'cdncfday, 20. 7 29. .• 5,
w - If""--
■ Tbur/day, 21. 7 29. fc 3-, S W j/W.
20. a 40 VV. |
22. 30. 2 vl. w PaiTT
' 34 <to ! </,.
Saturday, 23. y 30 4' 22 >J. E. Sr.'.w.
* | " do. Cloudy
Sunday, 24. 7 29. 54 5.5. VV.i
J - so S, v/.|cw»
Monday, aj. 7 30. 3 34 \',N.E CWj,-. '
2 3 0, 35' 35 |N. E. [ da.
Tliofe gentlemen, in different parts of the
Union, who liold
SUB^CRIPTIO\ PAPE;' 1 FOR THE
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
Are requeued to make returns of Hie subscri
bers names as soon as convenient—■
MelTrs. the Pr INTE Ks, also, ivho have, ar my
tequelt, publilhcd the proposals, will pleaf'e to fend
in their tefpeiftive accoun's. JOHN CAREY
No. 26, Pear-Street, Philadelphia.'
THREE POUNDS REWARD.
RUN AW AY from the fubfci iber, on Sun
day the 13th of January, an apprentice
lad to the blacksmiths bulinefs, named |..hn Liy
ton, about eighteen years of tie, five feet three
or four inches high, had on when he went awav,
a half worn fupe rile brown coat, a ihort orab
furtout , buff caflimer breeches a little faded,
worsted (lockings, his flues tied with black war
ded brings j he is remarkably fond of strong li
quor, it very talkative when'a little intoxicated,
and speaks with a coarse (Irong voice ; whoever
apprehends laid apprentice and secures hi.n, fliall
have the above reward, and il brought homr, rea
onable charges paid.
ISAAC WOODLAND.
Georgetown, Kent county, Cross Roads, Ma.
T y ]jni Ftb. 4, 1793. iaw.wr.
'i'erres a Vendre
Dans un pais Lien pcut>lc } —
SA VOIR, fiixanteclnq milJc, trois ecus, foix
ante et quatorze Acres t en unc feale piece
dans le canton le mieux peuple de la CaroJi-ie Ms
ridionalr, leDiftiitf de Ninety-Six, Ces terre
font fituees dans une contrcc agreable, et lalubre
ju les fievres font inconnuesj a environ vingt lieuec
ie Colombie, la Capitale, et continues ala vill-
Je Cambridge, eu il y a College, et Cour fuperi,
:ure. A environ douze lieuej, i 1 y a bonne nave
nation ; et il eft tres probable, que dans auelqui
(ems on rmdra navigable | c Grand Sa,ude, riviere
|ui arrofe les terres memes. Elles font arable*,
rnsnt diverfifiecs de coteaux et vallons chartnan
propres a la culture du tabac, du coton, du ma'is,
at du petit grain jet dont une proporti n confider
-3 ' e K'-' ut aifemtrnr convertir en prairies fr, ties
ilneeft peut-ctrf gueres pofiibie de rencoaireru e'
pareiile piece de te rs a vendre dans aucun autre
de# Eats Urns jet pour les conditions de Tacii a
on les rendra tres commodes.
S'informer i I'irr.piimerie de la CaieNa
tionale. r
Se
LANDS tor SALE,
j-N a Well fettled Country. SIXTY FIVF
1 THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AVD
SEVENTY FOUR JCRES OF LAND,
bod), in the mod populous part of the Ita-e of
South-Carolina, in the diftrifl 0 f Nine tv-fix- Ir
s situated in a fine healthy climat-.free )>, m levtr
k ague,about fixly miles from Columbia, he f f ',t
.(government The land is contiguous t„ the
own of Cambridge where are afemi o a,v f„ the
'iiftrutliun of you.tli, and a superior law c i„ rt - It
r.at prelent within about thirty-five ~f good
avigation wuh a probability of having ,hi river,
al cd the Great Saluoa, that flaws along one fide
f the land made navigab'e. The landl Zf .
ally diverfified into fwclls and vales, and is re.
fedtly well calculated for the cult.,,e of tobacco"
otton, Indian corn, and small ■ a "real
proportion of it may be made meadow ground
I here is not, perhaps, such a body ofiand, fociil
umftanced, tor sale in any other of the U-'s*ate«
l"he terms of payment will be made convenient to
he purchaser or purchafeis. Apply to the Prir tc ,"
29. |iw[f •
TO BE SOLD,
By JOSEPH CRUKSHANK, in Mar
ket Jlrect,
letters
AdJreflcu to the Yeomanry of the United
state;, (hewing the neceflit, of confining the pub
lic revenue to a fixed proportion of the net pro
duce ot the land, and the bad policy and iniultice
of every species of indiieft taxation and co.-nmei
cial regulations .
BY A FARMER.
Also, may be hau at the fame place, a few co
pies of t ? e FARMER'S LETTERS, containing
Mifcrvations on the dangerous fcherne of Governor
Duer and Mr, Secretary Hamilton to eftablifli
National Manuladlures.
Feb. 22. ,
3t. law
Forjale, at the printing office, a few copies
of thef.rH volume of the National Gazette.
P R INT E D B Y v
CHILDS and SWAINE,
AT THEIR OFFICE NO. HIGH-STREET*
NEAR FirTH-STFTET,
PHILADELPHIA,