[Numb. 21 of- Vol. ll.] W E D N E S DAI Y, January 9, 1793.
From theGAZKITE tftbtUNITED STATES
of Dicttnbcr 22.
JF perseverance c..n supply the want of judg
ment, Mr. JefTeffon has an excellent advocate
in the writer of his " Vindication." But 1
ittiftake, ifhislajfc attempt is noc found to in
volve ft ill more deeply the chara£er he willies
to extricate.
To repel the imputation on Mr. Jrfferfon, a
rifiDg from the aJvice which he gave to Congreft
refpefting the debt to France j he nor* only la
bors to fliew, that taken in all its orcumfimee!
it is not of the exceptjogful". complexion undei
which it has been represented, but endeavours to
infufe a bel-ef, that the sense of the eitrait ori
ginally communicated, has been altered by the
interpolation of certain words as well as bv the
foppreffion cf a part of the paragraph, from which
the extradt is derived.
It will strike the most careless observer, as not
a little extraordinary that a person (who by un.
dertaking to state the contents of a letter, with
precise accuracy, and even to detcft a minute ver
bal deviation, mull be um'erftood to have access
to the original)-—/iiouid, inttead of submitting
to the public eye a literaj tranfeript of that ori
ginal, content himfelf witli giving his own para
phrase of it, and Should exp«tf that rhis would be
accepted, upon the strength of his afTurance, that
it exhibits the genuine contents of the letter, on
the paint in difputc contained in one paragraph
only-—" That the art ar.gemcnt of the idea is the
fame, and that it?fubjiance t nothing has been ad
ded to, or taken from «t, thus modcflly offering
his own ctnflruEi'ion the very thing is
quettion, for the thing itfe-tr.
1 hat the extract, as given by nir, is correal
in every material expr+ffioxy is proved by the
statement in the Vindication. That it is
literally corrp&f | mutt continue to believe, un
til lomething more to be depended upon than can
flru&ivefubjiaiice, is offered int iieu of it.
The information, I pufiefe, is drawn from two
sources j one a memorandum in rhe hand writing
of a friend, which was given to me as an
tranfeript of the words of the letter, and whict
was copied verbatim, in the second of these pa
pers j the other, a document of unqueAionabh
authenticity, not long since confulied, whici
states the contents of Mr. Jeffeifon's letter ir
the following form
Mr.-Jc&erL'o suggests tbat 14 if there » a dan
ger of che public payments not being pon&ual
%ib<:h<r it might not be better that the dWeonterit!
which would then arile, fliould be ttansferres
from a court, ot whose good will we hava famuct:
need,to the breads of a private company.' 4
" That the credit of the United Stares ii
found to Holland, and that it would probably noi
be difficult to borrow in that country the whoh
sum of money due to the court of France } and
to discharge that deVt without any deduftior.
thereby doing what would be grateful to ch<
court, and eftablilhing with them a confidence ir
our honour.
This ftatcment in the document alladid to
fifrves to confirm the memorandum, in form a 1
well as fubltance. Speaking in the third person
it represents Mr. Jeftcrfon as ffggejlingy <{ ivbe
tier it might not be better, &c." whence it is na
tural to infer, that fpeakingin the firft person ir
the letter, the terms are, "I submit whether I
may net be better, &c."
The form of conveying the idea by way of quef
tioo, is common to both vouchers ; and the wore
" whether", which is also Common to both, pre
supposes the words ** I suggest," or *< I submit,'
the last being the most accurate, and in that vieti
the niuir likely to have been used.
It is observable, also, that the fame ft.itemen
difcontie&s the two propositions, and gives then
a difiindl and independent afpecK The conjunc
tion ft But," which is alledged to be in the ori
ginal, does not appear in that statement.
It ispoftible nevertheJefs, that fonie immateri
al departures from literal preciiion, may hav<
found their way into the tranferipts, which art
relied upon. But while this conceilion, as s
bare possibility is made, it is not intended as ar
escape from a rigorous responsibility for the es
sential accuracy of the disclosure. If there be ir
what has been communicated as a literal extfa&
any exprejfion the leaf material, tending to th<
crimination of Mr. Jefferfon, which is not to b<
found in the original, it is admitted to be inex
cusable.—But not having been pofiefled of th<
original, as has been several times dated, any ac
cidental variation of exprefiion, not affe&ing a
all the sense of the quotation, or not affecting ii
difadvantageoufly to Mr. JelTerfon, cannot be ad.
mitted to be of moment j in regard either to the
merits of the difcuflion, or to the fairnefu of pro
cedure. To press such a variance, as an ohjec
o^9 n » ' 3 t0 cavil, and betray a confcioulnefs o;
pweaknefs.
Now it happens, that the variance, which ii
alledged to exilt, if it has any influence upor
the meaning of the pafTage, has one favourable
to Mr. Jefferfon ; taking it for granted, thai
his apologia has given a true account of it. This
will be seen by carefully contrasting the phraseo
logy, in the two cases.
The extra#, as rtated by me, is in these words;
if If there is a danger of the public payments noi
bdrg punHual, I t'ubmit whether it may not it
bitter, that the discontents which would then a
rise, fhauld be transferred from a court, of whoft
good will we have Jo much need } to the breajis of
t private company,"
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhed Wednesdays oj<i Satwrdavs, a/ Three Dollars
The llatement in the vindication represents,
that Mr. Jefferfon, ii Having dated the propo-
Utijn as above (referring to die proportion lor
the purchase oi the debt) objertoctfurther upon it,
in its relation to this country, that if there be a
dang er our pttfynentsnoy *ot be punclual, it might
be letter y that the difcor.tents whl.h would then
if rife, (houed be transfer red fro,n a court t of whoft
gjjd will we huvefo mticb need, to the brcajls oj
a private company
All the material and phrases are
the sam€ in the two (latements-—'Tlv only dif
ference between them i«, that in the firft Mr.
jeiferlon is made to fitbmie in the modest form
ot a que.lion, £< whether it Hot be better,"
the identical sentiment or aavice, which, in the
iail, he is m-.ie to convey in the *.Ttrmative tone
of an obfeivation, that 11 it might be better"-*
The lejft mode of cxpre.'Tiun is certainly ftrongei
than she Srft, and ;r t'.ie sentiment conveyed be,
os it undoubtedly is, an improper one, the cen
fare due tc it is encreafed by the greater
of decision with which it is exprefTed, as being ar
indication of a mure decided fta e of mind con*
cerning remark, which might otherwise
appear nice and critical, is naturally drawn forth
by the attempt to have it underlto-.d, that th;
words, "ljubmit whether" which are laid tc
bave been interpolated, have an influence upon
the sense of the clauie injurious to Mr. Jefferfon.*
The refu!t is, that the alteration of terms faic
:o have been made, if real, must have been cafu
il, because it either does not vary the leolc, o;
/aricsit favourably to Mr. fefftrfon : and cor.
cquently that the charge wfcich has been broagbi
eft* upon him in its primitive force, unmiti
;ated by the alledged change of terms.
In like manner admitting the flaiement ol
vhat is laid to follow as a part of the f.im* para
graph, to be truly repreibnted in the vindicati
m—lc cith«r corresponds with the view I have
leretofore given of the matter, or it imbiicitei
Mr. Jefferfon, in greater reprehenfibility than
)as yet been charged upon hire—lt either pre
"ents an alternative proportion predicated upon
he supposition of a flat* of things different from
hat which is the bajis of the firfl, namely, the
langer of a deficiency of means for pundiuai pay
ment, and in that cafe does not derogate from
he firft j—or proceeding upon the supposition ol
he Jame fate of things, it contains advice to Con
;iefs to avail thenrtfelves of the yet 'found state
>f their credit in Holland, treacherously to in
luce individuals upon the invitation of the go
vernment to lend their money on the ordinary
crmsy for trie purpose of making full payment to
p rance, in order to guard her from IoG, and pre
erve her confidence, in direct contemplation o|
tot being able to render the ftipuJated justice tc
hose individuals, if this was the advice of Mr.
fefferfon, it leaves his conduit without even
hose flight extenuations which have been fuppo
ed to afford a ftmblance of apology, it takes
iway the feeble pretexts deduced from the offer
laving originated with the company, and from
heir gaining a cor.fiderable boon iij the fiifi
mrchale.
Thd last I acknowledge, is the conftrufii«n
left warranted by the ftru(fture of th'c paragraph
as delineated in the vindication.—This, as it
there stands, would be the most obvious and na
tural reading If there be a danger that our
payments may not be punctual, it may be better
that the discontents which would then arifrfhwik
be transferred from a court of whose good will we
bave so much need to the breasts cf a private
company. But flill it has occurred to me thai
we may do what is preferable to accepting the
proportion of the Dutch company. We maj
find occasion to do what would be grateful to the
court of Franc., and eftabiifh with them a con
fidence in our honor. Our credit is good in Hoi-,
land—-may it not be poiTible then to borrow then
the four and twenty millions due to France, an<i
pay them the whole debt at once. This, be fide(
transferring the discontents, to be expected frorr
the want of punctual payments, from the com'
of France, to the breasts of individuals would
have the further advantage of saving that couri
from any loss on our account. It is in this sense
only, that the firft suggestion can be considered a?
over-ruled by, or absorbed in the last, and thai
Mr. Jefferfon can be said to have difcountenancec
the propoiition mads By the Dutch company,
If this be the meaning intended to be contended
for, no pains will be taken to dispute it ; and the
comment will be left to Mr. Jefferfon'a most par
tial admirers.
Tho writer of the vindication continues to in
sist, that Mr. jefferfon was only the vehicle ol
communication, aligning as reafuns for this af
(ertion that the tranlaclion had taken place be.
tween the parties, before any mention was made
of it to him, and that in communicating it tc
Congress h.e only made known to that body the
defirs both of the company and of the French
court j That the opinion which be gave arose out
of the proportion, was in furtherance of the view,
of the parties, and that in fa& no decision could
be formed on it, either by the Congress, or him
felf, without a companion of the parties as cre
ditors of the United States. But these reasons
do not prove that Mr. Jefferfon was only the ve
* The words t( might not be better," are also
laid to bave been interpolated—though all but the
<{ not" ate in the quotation made by the Vindicator j
a fptcimen of his \accuracy %
h»c<«' of communication $ they prove the contra
ry j ityat he was both the vibkle of communica
tioi',! 4.'i4 the pulton, though noi the author oJ
the The precise difference between
mere yebiclc, and beir»£ hpth the •vehi
cle - ten the patrw of a confix in thi*;
th«ff )'ip< the frrit cafe die agent (Hoes nothiot
mort shan communicate the proportion—in rhf
laflf & r:- < s -in VptJtfon arifirig cut of it, in furthe
r-dim of thi 'j'teKVi tf the trropofers j which is ex
ittl ■/', -.vhat is acknowledged to have bccu Wotu
by V. r. Jefferibn.
1 bt pica that there could be no immorality. 01
indei <2. y t in eipoufing a piojwlition coming iVoru
the j jrties amounts to nothing. Tht
charge is not, that .advice w.*s to accede t:
th? piOpu£;ijfti'jut chat a Jvkcwas given to accer!;
jßai'tuhitc Ftound cvbicbwaS (ii/kctiCttrabitfrutjvf.
It it 'he condition upon which the acceptance i;
advitfsd, that Conftit)ites the culpability.
In No. 4 of the vindication, the attack upoi
Mr. jcfftiton is faiU to proceed t'tOUi private re
vevri. In No. sit changes its nature, and be
coratj an attack upon principles ; a monarchica
plot JgSinft tiie republican character of the cam
mun# ; . How slid how ofren ai the yta
pje o* America t** be insulted with this TTVpocr;
ticai rant ? When will theje political Fharifee;
ieatn, that their country men have too much dif
cernment to be the dupes or their hollow and of
tent.it;ou» pretensions r That the citizens of th;
United States know how to diftinguiih the mer
why UrvJt them, from thole who only fluttn
them, the men who have substantial claims tt
their toj.fidence, from thofc who study to concea
the want of qualities, really lb lid and ufeful, un
der the mask of extraordinary and exclullve pat
riorifm and purity ?
It is curious to observe the pathetic wailing:
which have been produced by the animadversi
ons in ihefe papers. It would seem as if a cer
caiT* party Conlidered therelelves as the sole and
rightful censors of the republic $ and every at
tempt to bellow praise or blame not originating
with them, as an usurpation of their preroga
tive, every stricture on any of their immaculate
ba;id as a breach of their privilege. They ap
pear to think themfclves authorized to deal out
anathemas, without measure, or mercy, against
all who dare to swerve from their itandard of po
litical orthodoxy, which are to be borne without
rwimJOicm or mtrrmur. And if any fyxnptom of
either filews itfeif, they are furc to rails the dif
tnal cry of persecution 5 themselves the firll to
all'ai and the firft to complain* But what it not
permitted to men who have so clearly eftablilhed
a title, little lffs than divine, to a monopoly of
all the patriotic virtues !
The only answer, which is due to the feint of
offering to enter into arrangements, for ascertain*
ing whether the writer of these papers has in
theinftancc under confederation been guilty of
mifprefentation—and the breach of an official
luty—is to remind the public that in my firft
paper I declared myfelf willing to be known on
proper terms to the ofiiccr concerned. To this
I adhere, in the fpiric of the original intimation,
but I deem a perianal disclosure to any subaltern
of his, improper 5 nor do I perccive that it is in
the present cafe necefiary to an inveOigation of
fatts. The writer of the vindication admits in
fubltance what is alledged, and as to his collate
ral statements, it has been {hewn that they imply
more blame on the chara&er meant to be excul
pated, than was originally charged. I forbear
any comment on the indecency of naming upon
conjecture rhe person who has been named as the
autnor or ihefe papers, or upon the palpable ar
tifice of making an avowal of them, by thzt par
ticular person, the condition of a difclofuie of the
name of the writer of the vindication.—-Indecen
cy and artifice are the proper weapons of fach ad
verlaries.
CATULLUS.
Numb. VI.
{Continuedfrom No. 117 of this paper.]
1 DID not expect, after my last paper, that the
public would have been longer wearied, at least
upon the fame terms, with a continuation of
those inve&ives which have for some time part
been iflued, thro* the Gazette of the United
States, from a writer uccer the lignature of CA
TULLUS. I thought 1 had placed the point in
controvcrfy between us in such a light as must
compel him to bring it immediately to a close.
But th/'s writer has disappointed my reasonable
expectations in this refpeft, by /hewing that he
was capable not only of a malignant afperlion, of
rhe chara&er in question, but likewise of a
(hamelefs effrontery in the mode of conducing
the difcuflion.*
The impartial public will however take into
view, on each fide, the object of this controvcrfy.
They wiil mark its commenceitieat, and its se
veral stages 5 the nature of the charges exhibited
and of their support, together with the present
dilemma of the writer. They will likewise par
don the trouble I £hall give them, in pursuing him
through every fhlft. A tfriCl analysis of his per
formance may perhaps render some service, o»
therwifc than by the mere exculpation of the ci
tizen aflaileH. The merits of the aflailant are
* This, it is to be hoped, nvill be deemed a fvf
ficient apology to the public, for departing from
the refolutien wit 6 <u bicb tie iaji number iuai
clojfdt
[Total No. 125.]
now likewise before them, and of which it may
tend eventually to fix a more preci/e estimate
than has heretofore been furnished.
Whether ic would be prudent for the author
of CATULLUS to give his name to the
public, and take on himfelf the credit of
those performances, which bear that fignatore, he
alone should decide. He polTefief the rrght to
act in this refpeel as he pleases, and no person can
deprive him of it. There is a difference be
tween a suspicion and the confeffion of guilt,
which every culprit may avail himfelf of. To
submit to the judgment of his peers, after the
charge lhall be fairly eflabliihed against him, by
evidence he has endeavoured to repel, is all that
can be required from even th 4 most profligate of
men.
Yet if truth had been the sole obje& in view,
in the immediate point of difcuflion between us,
I was, and still air« persuaded, 1 had placed" it
within the reach of fair and easy attainment.
And the mode suggested in my last seemed to be
proper, as it might refpeft either the putative or
any other author of those pieces. Were the pub
lic i.-.t-erefitrj in the charges exhibited against the
Sc-.fcjry oi State, ftrppofing they contained in
them any thing culpable ? If they were not, why
trouble them with what, in that view, must be
deemed the effect of a mere personal animosity ?
And if they were, will it be honorable for the
author, when his fadls are denied, his veracity
questioned, and a fair mode of investigation
pointed out, to fCulk behind a mafic, and deny
himfelf to any one, even the most- humble of hi*
fellow-citizens ? All that can be deemed necef
ftry for the establishment of truth is, that some
person, in whom the public may confide, should
be announced, that he might accompany the au<?
ihor, whether Mr. .Hamilton, or any other per
son, to the proper source, for rhe purpose of ob-»
taiuing from it an authentic copy of the original.
Would the grade or station of the character thus
notiiied, be it what it might, encreafe or
ifli the confidence of the public in the result,
provided it were suitable in other icjpefls ? and
in tfce situation of the author, attesting at one
time one thing, and at another yielding it up,
perpetually fhiftiog his ground and owning him
fei/ guilty of palpable inaccuracy, and of courfd
of misrepresentation, might it not rather have
been cxpe&Cjii JjtC would have causht with avidi
ty at the opportunity fornifhed, of eftahitfhing
what was in reality the truth, as the means of f
in some degree the appearance of can
dor with the public ?
And will tbe author of these pietes leave us in
suspense, upon the important concerns of his ve
racity and fame, until they shall have gained the
attention of the character, at whom they have
been principally pointed ? Would it be proper for
the Secretary of State, to lay bare tbe files of his
department, and publish a secret document even
in his own defence ? For although perhaps of but
little importance in the present instance, circura
ftanced as things now are, yet in relation to
those rules, which should be observed in the go
vernment of a public office, might it not fubjedt
him to the imputation urged with such propriety
against the Secretary of the Treasury, in cafe
these publications have proceeded from him ? Can
no other mode then be devised that might tend
to relieve him from this painful embarraflment ?
I can suggest none j perhaps his own ingenuity
may be more fertile j but to me it appears proba
ble that unless this delicacy with refpeft to rank
should be dispensed with, his situation must con
tinue to be an unpleasant one. The mind of man
is naturally attive, and disposed to pursue its ob
je& ; it will form some concluflon relative to this
attack and its author. To the claims of fair
and honorable indulgence it will yield its prompt
and ready afTentj but when charges are exhibit
ed against the chara&er of a refpe&ab'c citizen,
fa£s afTerted which are not supported, and the
obvious means of proof when pointed out fhrunlc
from, upon a mere point of etiquette, fafhiona
bJe as is the age in which we Jive, they must
recoil with accumulated force upon the aflaiJant.
1 have, I presume, shewn in a former paper that
upon any ilatement yet given, if its true import
only were regarded, there was in reality no im
propriety in the fenrfment afctibed to Mr. Jef
ferfon* Let it be admitted, for the fake of argu
ment, that he advifea Congress upon the profpedt
of the failure of pun£tu?lity fn the payments,
ro agree to the transfer of the debt from the
French court, to the Dutch company $ that he
even originated the proposition, end prefenced it
to their view, without an alternative, wherein
was the impropriety ? Is a nation inhibited by
any principle of morality, from borrowing money
for the most necefiary purposes, in cafe there is a
poflibility of failing in the repayment, precisely
at the time stipulated ? If this were the cafe,
hew can the original loans, of the whole foreign
deb: from Fiance and Holland, bejuftified ? The
profpeft of ultimate reimbursement, whilst tjie is
sue of the contest, and our independence were ac
stake, was certainly more distant and equivocal,
than after that happy event was accomplished,
and the wh 1< resource* of one of the most ex
tensive, fertilf and produ&ive countries in the
world, under our command. Yet although
doubts may have exitled whether, under those
ctTfcum(ranees, any person woijd lend,h believe no
one ever hciitated, whether if we could, we
would borrow. How can the pra&ice of our own
government in borrowing money irj Hc;!land>from one set of men to pay the irstereft be
coming due to another at the very period
of this letter bejuftilied? In Jhort I take
it to be well eftablilhed, that if there be a
moral competency, at the time a propor
tion for a loan i 3 made, for fulfilling the
proposed stipulations, there cannot be any
impropriety in the mcafure. The turpi
tude confiits'l.n not doing afterwards what
we have it in our power to do. Did he
give any admonition to his countrymen to
this effect ? Did lis advise them not to pay
the debt, or to relax in any degree, in their
efforts, for that purpose?
In fact, a change of the debt in some
fliape or other, either by the negociation
of the French court, or die Congress, with
luoney-lenders in Holland, termed to be
the necellary conference of the relative
situation and interests of the several parties.
France was distressed for money; nearly
exhausted by a laborious effort, in favor of
our independence, and daily impoverilhed
by an expensive court and profligate miai
fter, (he grasped with avidity at every re
source, however trifling, to fupp jrt her de
clining credit. Our debt was becoming
due by large inltalments. To indulge us
was beyond her power; to have claimed
it, would have iiained our national cha
racter with ingratitude. On the other
hand, we were at the time unable to pay.
Our requisitions were {lighted—our go
vernment was feeble and without rel'ource.
But we poffefled beyond a doubt, under
wife arrangements, the means of fulfilling
more exteniive engagements; and the sage
and deliberate councils of our country,
were rapidly maturing that important
change in our fvftem, which mufl give us
the command of those resources. Holland,
therefore, in this situation, became the ob
je£t of both parties. To the exigencies ol
Fiance (lie could yield relief; to us die
could give time. Was it not then natural,
.we Ihould look to that quarter, for the
means of fatisfying our ally, and relieving
us from embarrallinent ?
In the proportion for a new arrangement
with another party, the door would be o
pen for stipulations in every refpett more
suitable to us. Tiie reimbursement of the
principal, which was becoming due by
great instalments to France, was the true
cause which endangered our punctuality.
With the Dutch, this inconvenience might
be guarded against. To protract the re
payment to a distant day, has been hereto
fore as desirable to them as eligible tor us.
And that this was the object contemplated
by Mr. jefferlon, no reasonable man can
doubt. In this point of view, his conduit
was not only strictly proper, but highly
laudable ; aud nothing but the most falla
cious statement could throw the smallest
shadow of doubt on it. This has been at
tempted in the instance before us, by fup
prefling the eflential difference between
the time, at which the old debt was, and
that at which the new debt might be made
payable, and like every other attempt dic
tated by the motives which govern Catul
lus, must recoil 011 the author.
To me it has appeared perfe&ly imma
terial, which of the expedients was that of
Mr. Jefferfon —for I can conceive no pos
sible impropriety in either ; nothing but
what was warranted by the most delicate
sentiment of honor, and the practice of out
government, from the declaration of inde
pendence to the present day. Upon prin
ciple, therefore, I (hould not have noticec
a difference. I did it for the fake of truth,
and to fbew, that whilst he wilhed the ac
commodation of his own country, it was
in a manner that might do justice, and e
vince our gratitude to the French nation.
I did it likewise, for the purpose of (hew
ing the fallacy of the writer, and his ea
gerness to wound that gentleman's fame,
by every plaulible misrepresentation in his
power. Upon the whole, therefore, I
must confidcr this, as one of the most illi
beral and contemptible efforts to injure the
character of a refpe£table citizen, that ha!
occurred. That the ground has been in
every refpeit the most trifling and frivolous
that could be, and that nothing but a great
deal of malice against principles, as well as
the person entertaining them, could have
given birth to it—unless Catullus (hall de
monstrate that malice cannot exist in the
fame mind against both, at the fame time.
I (hall conclude this paper by observing,
how much it is to be wilhed, this writer
would exhibit himfelf to the public view,
that we might behold in him a living mo
nument of that immaculate purity, to
which he pretends, a,id which ought to
distinguish so bold and arrogant a censor of
others.
For the National Gazette.
To Mr. James Blanchard.
S 1 R,
AFTF.R having served your country
with distinguished honor and integrity, dur
ing the late arduous contest for freedom
and independence, you have now nobly
and intrepidly stepped forth, to vindicate
your own rights and those of your fellow
soldiers, by calling on your country for that
justice to which they have so righteous a
claim and which has so long been denied—
you have attacked speculation in its strong
hold, no doubt the nest you have disturbed
will fend forth a bowling tribe about your
ears, but persevere in the good eaufe—be
not deterred by the open threats or lecret
frowns of men in office—we haveloug been
amused with hints and insinuations reflect
ing the dark intrigues of Congrefs-uien—
It was reserved for you Sir, to point out
the culprits. Neither names nor flation:
should screen public plunderers from pub
lic execrations ; go on, Sir, in the noble
work you have begun—ltste facts, produce
your vouchers, name your men, lay opei:
the whole scene of iniquity and let ven
geance fall on the guilty—itrip off the mall:
that conceals the speculator under the guile
of the patriot—drag forth to daylight the
men iet. them be who they will; whether
they be Presidents, Vice-Preiidents.juices"
Senators, Representatives, Secretaries!
Comptrollers, Auditors, Commissioners!
Registers, Clerks, Collectors, Supervisors.
Inspectors, Agents, Contractors, Quarter
mailers, Generals, Colonels, Governors.
State Comptrollers, Treasurers, Account
ants, or whatevc ~ else may be named. Lei
the Augean stable be cleansed, tho' the
world be turned iniid** out or topfy turvy —
order will spring out of confulion, light
will slash out of chaos, rogues w ill ""be
exposed. jufiice shall appear, and the war
worn fokiier, the penoyiefs ofitcer, and the
long cheated real public creditor lhall blsfi
the name of Blanchard. Having enterec
on the arduous undertaking, having col
lected materials in your late southern tour,
having an able friend aclv.for and counsel
lor in that independent and truly dtflnter
efted friend of the poor J'oldier, the author
of '• the poor soldiers' plea"—you in lift be
armed at ail points, your enemies cannoi
assail you with advantage ; they shall retire
from your attack, and the whole herd ol
(peculators, from the iirft man in that Go
vernment, to the despicable wretch whe
prowling thro 1 the country for prey, has
bought the soldiers or widow's mite for a
song, (hall crouch and refund their ill-got
ten gains—cloath'd with the impenetrable
armour of honour, faith, a good consci
ence and an unspotted character, you will
etfeit your object, tho' Appollyon and al!
his host of treasury blood fuckers fhoulc
hand in your way.
A FELLOW LABORER.
For the National Gazette.
VERT unnecefiary pains have been ta
ken of late to prove, that our brethren of
the eaflern Hates are republican in their
principles, sentiments, and manners. Witt
refpedt to the general body of the people ir
that quarter, as in all other parts of the Uni
on, the fait could never have been called ir
question. But, on the other hand, that an
anti-republican combination existed, and
was at work indiffufing itspoifonous influ
ence, has for a considerable time been evi
dent from the pirit of several of the pres
ses, particularly that of the Connecticut
Courant, printed at Hartford. Publicati
ons sneering at the rights of man, traducing
the cause of liberty abroad, and teeming
with inveitives against its belt friends at
home, have ifiued from time to time, in
greater or less disguise, as effrontery might
prompt, or the occasion might tempt. Ir
the following piece* the mt.fk seems to be
entirely dropped. The noble fttuggle o!
the patriotic French for republican liberty
is held up as the design of artful and afpi
ring demagogues. The people are abufei
for not fitting down content with a half
way reform under the government of apu
fillanimous prince,in aflual confpii acy will
the despots in arms against his country. A
constitutional king, and a representative
affemblv, are pronounced, with a note oj
ejnphajis, to be " rational liberty confiftini
in the government of the laws" ; to berths
" great bulwark of freedom which faftfoni
had broken over." In fine, the doctrine o
tquality is represented as chimerical, tin
immutability of diftinciions afierted ; am
the works of Mr. Adams referred to foi
the proofs that they are inherent in society.
ft would be needless to frimulate the in
Jignation which every reader, who is not
j royalist in his heart, mult feel at fuel
Kirefaced attacks on the republican cai'./e.
3ut it is proper to remark, that the bold
lefs in the writers is abundant proof that
they confide in the influence, if not in the
lumber of the party enliited under the
janners of monarchy and arillocracy. Nor
:an we avoid adding to this remark, how
tnuch it is to be lamented that the fecontl
officer of the L T nited States should be liable
:o be claimed as the champion of principles
nbverfive of the republican foundation on
which our national government is esta
blished.
Philad. Jan. 7, 1793.
* For the Connecticut Courant.
lt Homines dum <vitia witant in ccntrarla currunt."
THE present affairs ofF'rance, serve to
shew in the most lively colours the advan
tages which the inhabitants of the Ijnited
States enjoy over any European nation ; —
even that, which has boasted of being the
most refined and polished in the world. If
it is asked in what these advantages consist ?
the answer is ; in the superior knowledge
and information which is polfefied by the
great body of the people : for with refpeft
to real virtue, it would perhaps be pre
sumptuous to aflert vvliat country is the
moJt -virtuous. The United States, ftnce
their reparation from Great-Britain, and
in the course of about five years from the
settlement of peace, have eltablifhed a na
tional constitution, which has the i'aireft
prospect of being permanent, and several ol
them have formed constitutions for their
refpe&ive states, -without the effuftou■ of
any blood.. It is now about five or fix years
since the people of France, fiimulattd as
has been often represented by the example
of the Americans, and perhaps hi part, alio
excited by the gradual progress of fciente.
attempted the reformation of abuses which
were almost immemorial, and to fubftituts
in the place of Despotism, a constitutional
king, and representative Afiembly ; antl
thereby to establish rational liberty, con
lifting in the government of the laws. I;
pursuing this reformation, tending to me
liorate in so great a degree the condition oi
the great body of the nation ; the most vi
olent contentions have arisen : and we be
hold with horror, among a people celebra
ted for their civilization and politeness, ir
some instances the extremes of cru
elty : the nislfacres, the rapine and injus
tice which have been committed will black
en the page of the future historian. Bui
faction who 13 the child of ignorance ha:
been the greatest enemy they have had tc
contcnd with in so glorious acaufe. Froir
whence has tins sprung, but from the warn
of knowledge among the people, fufficienl
to understand their true interests. The
want of this information, ever expose:
them to the designs of artful and afpirinj
demagogues, and while, like the waves o!
the sea, they are continually agitated bj
contending factions, they lose fight of those
principles upon which they set out; art
prevented from regaining their natura;
rights when within their power, or ever
from discovering in what those rights con
filt.
Had the people of France, been fatisfiec
with the privileges which they had regain
ed, and set down contented with the con
stitution, as framed by the eonftituent As
sembly, and accepted by Louis XVI. ir
1791, they might probably have been hap
py. This constitution, if not so perfect a!
that ot the United States, contained the
great principles of government, and gave
as much liberty as was conliftent perhap:
with the genius and manners of theFrencl
nation. Not all the influence or intrigue!
of fugitive Princes and aristocrats, nor the
menaces or feeble attacks of foreign pow
ers could have endangered in any degree 1
fabric so well eltablifhed and supported.
But when Factions had broke over this greal
bulwark ot freedom, and excited the peo
ple to riotous proceedings by throwing out
the alluring term of equality, when by the
chimerical proje£t of equalizing the citi
zens, they had destroyed those natural ane:
immutable diftinftions, which a great wri
ter and politician of our own country ha;
aliened, and ingeniously proved, are inhe
rent in every fuciety ; * all principles upor
which a rational government could reft,
were destroyed : and how much blood ha;
been Ihed, or how many years it will be be
fore France will establish a permanent con
ftitution,is notyetafcertained :—fodilficuh
is it in politics, as in every thingelfe, to at
tain the golden mean !
As history is " precept teaching by ex
ample —let us learn in this country, tc
diflufe the means of knowledge to all clafle:
of people, by the encouragement of schools.
public libraries, printing, &c; —being per
funded that knowledge is the fuxeft barriei
against the extremes of anarchy or oppres
sion : and is indeed the only basis upoi:
which a free government like our own car
poflibly reft.
* See Mr. Adams' Defence of America>.
Conflitulions —page 107 —114.
[from a Correjpondeut. ]
Those who are so apt to take fire at the
iealt intimation given in any of the public
prints, that republican!J'm has been of lati
omevjhat objaired in certain parts of thi
'Jvited States, ought tocurb in the violence
jf their resentment a little, when they are
informed that it is from the general tenoi
jf the newspapers of any (late, or commu
lity, that people at a distance (howevei
improper the criterion) take their ideas o:
:he prevailing politics offuchftate, or com
munity. When therefore there is obferv
;:ble in any papers {such, for instance, a;
the " American Mercury", and the " Con
nedicut Ccurantboth published at Hart
lord) a constant, inveterate, and most il
liberal abuse of republicanism, and repub
lican characters, fele&ed out for the fhaf t;
of contemptible malice ; can the person at
1 distance be much blamed who supposes
that anti-republicanism and aristocracy are
there prevalent ? Such a conclusion, how
ever, would be erroneous. It cannot be
denied that the New England states are
truly republican, both in the manners and
condition, as well as in the government of
their citizens.—The ebullitions of certain
writers among them, (a real disgrace to
their prefl'es) ought not to stamp the lead
ing opinion. When therefore we fee such
an original performance as the above in the
Hartford Connecticut Courant of Decem
ber 31, 1792, let us not presume from
thence, or from scores of similar prodnfti
ons, that the great body of the inhabitants
are aristocrats or monarchy men, than
which nothing can be more falfe. Caie
ought to be taken, however, bv trie friend
of republicanism in Connectici:, that such
impudent effulions of ariftocrac-> be annu
ally burnt ill a heap, by the com':,.„,v t.a:■»-
man ol the.itate ;to (hew the -cl coS
tcmpt of the public,forfucfc infamous. • : ii
five, and uneoaliitucional production...
For the National Gazette.
Extrafl of a genuine letter from a gentle
man, refilling at Hammerjmiih, in En
gland, dated March i, j 792.
" I hope it is not true that the Indians
have defeated Gen. St. Clair. Some peo
ple in England seem to enjoy it much. I
own myfelf entirely ignorant of the cause
and merits of the present Indian war j
perhaps you'll be kind enough to inform
me. I hope, however, the American
States will not fuff'er the Indians to crow
over them. I make no doubt but that a
great number of people will go over to A
merica from Europe in a few years, espe
cially if America does not adopt tile Eu
ropean mode of taxation. Many seem dis
couraged already from their having enact
ed the Excise Laivs among you, "as they
think it a bad omen. Molt men think,
that if the excise is once introduced, it
will never be abolilhed, but rather encreafe
continually. The old faying is a true one,
A burltt chili dreads the 'fire: people have
long experienced the truth of this adage in
this country, and therefore they conclude
it will be so in America also. The tyrants
of Europe are ail alarmed, as well as the
Oj-b Tyrant at Rome. But the time is
hauening when men will take,die liberty
of feeing with their own eyes, and of hear
ing with their own ears, and of judging
of what is right and proper, and of Ithe
contrary. The above tyrants seem to
combine and nnite to maintain king-craft,
and to flille freedom and libertv in Its very
birth. But I trust it is of Cod, and that
" he who fitteth in the heavens will
them to scorn."
I believe, indeed, that national vices are
generally purged with national judgments
01 afflictions, or calaminej, call them which
you will. There may be much blood spilt
in fiance, perhaps, before liberty tri
umphs ; but triumph it shall, it mil ft, soon
er or later, I am confident. Nor do I
think it will be confined to that kingdom,
but rather that it will be extended to all
the kingdoms and flares in Europe, yea,
and the whole world. ,r
■ HREE things may be observed from
this extract, ii!, That the flame of Li
berty is now kindled in England. 2dly,
That the excise laws are attended with
pernicious confequer.ces in Great-Britain,
by preventing emigrations from thence to
America : and 3dly, That some good peo
ple in England are concerned for the well
fare of America, while others rejoice at all
of the calamities attending an Indian war.
It is with surprize and real sorrow that I
have observed for months part, many pub
lications charging our rulers with raihnefs
and imprudence in commencing war with
the holtile tribes of Indians.
Men are not to be centred for igno
rance, when they do not enjoy the means
of information ; but Purely that man is ve
ry blameable, \\ ho writes on any fubje£t,
with which he is unacquainted ; and of
this class, i mull conclude, are all those
persons, who have reproached our rulers
for attempting to convince the lavages of
the impropriety of (In tiding innocent blood
incessantly.
I fnppofe it is weii known in several of
the flares, that in 1- 72 and 1 7-3, I vilited
the Shawanee Indians ami others, with a
wilh to civilize them, ar.d from that time
to this, I have frequently been on the wa
ters of tne Ohio.andhave enjoyed such op
portunities of information, that I mult be
better acquainted with Indian alFairs than
any person, even of superior abilities, who
has never been in the wefrern country. —
From many considerations, I now think it
my duty to exhibit a true statement of In
dian ar.airs, as far as my knowledge ex
tends ; hoping what I may fay, will be fa
tisfaftory to all good people, who are un
informed j aild as for such, who are dispo
sed to be contentious, l am fully persua
ded, neither arguments nor fa£b will avail
much.
It is well known when peace was con
cluded with Great-Britain, Congress
thought proper to fend ambassadors to the
Indians, to invite them to a treaty in order
to make peace. 7'his measure was repro
bated by persons belt acquainted with In
dians. as it would impress on them an idea,
that we were unable to difptlte with them
by arms, and therefore applied for
A treaty confequentlv was held at Fort"
Stanwix, at the close or which, a purchase
was made of a large tract of country, and
the con fully paid, as I sup
pose.
Now the tomahawk v.as to be buried,
and peace forever eflablifiitd. The Uni
ted States were informed of the whole
transaction by proclamation, aid requelted
to direct their conduct accordingly. But
alas ! notwithstanding ibis tine Treaty,
whichw-as not violated on ouf fide, con
stant nrriircf re conn don the Ohioand the frontiers Ecljactjit, It was not
long before the fine blankets were worn
out, and from the distressed iiate of affairs
on our frontiers, Congress thought propei
to propose a second treaty. This was
held at or near the Bis Miami. This wa.
expected to be final, an:! every cause o;'un
eahnefs forever to be removed. Here a
gain a fair purchase Was made of the land'.,
by such persons as Congress cor. ided in a:
qualified to tranfa-cl the bufmefs But a
gain alas ! we were disappointed, fur not
withstanding the lands were purchased .
second time, and 110 violation of the treat)
on our fide, cruel murders and horfe-fleal
ing went on as usual at Kentucky and else
where. Many worthy families were bar
barously murdered, and others reduced t<
the greatest ditlrefs by having all their hor
ses ilolen from them, by Indians whofc
towns were near 200 miles from them.
Accounts of such outrages repeatedly
filling the ears of Congress, no doubt, af
fected the heart of every man of feehnj
among them ; and I mil ft fay, it is aston
ishing that their humanity and patience
would bear with such horrid perfidy anr
wickedness any longer ; but what (hall i
fay ! —fuch was their superlative lenity,thai
a third treaty was propofsd at Fort Har
mar, at the mouth of Mil fit in gum. Every
measure was pursued to collect the whoit
of the Indians, that if there was any cauf L
of complaint, it might be removed : bin
here, we were in great measure difap
poinred, for the greater part of the Shaw
atiees and Wiandots refilled to treat.—
However, a considerable number of feve.
ral nations convened, and concluded the
third treaty, and the lands were again
purchased.
This treaty was managed by Gen. St.
Clair, Gen. Butler and others, who wert
appointed by the United States.
How extremely ignorant, or hardened
mtift that man be, who has very freely cer.-
fured Gen. St. Clair for uling his influence
to raise an army against such perfidiou:
murderers ! It is astonishing how he coulc:
forbear so long ; but whoever is truly ac
quainted with his chara&er, knows him tc
be of an easy temper, and never guilty of
hasty and imprudent measures. If on thi
fubjeft there is any blame, I believe itinufl
be for moving so slowly in defence of hi
poor fellow creatures.
I cannot devise what is meant by the
publications against an Indian war. Would
such men with that those savages should
murder and lay vafte our weltern coun
try ? or do they wilh us to compel the
western world to revolt from the (Jnitec
States and defend themselves? If theft
are not the objetts, for shame let them be
silent.
Jan. 5. DAV ID JONES.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
F.i 1 DAY, Jan. 4.
The bill for corripenfating the widow:
arid orphans of 44 the persons killed by the
Indians, while a£Hng under the sanction o:
flags of trace," was farther difcufled ir
the committee of the whole houfe —feve-
r3l new amendments were made, report
ed, and taken into consideration. Furthei
amendments being made, the bill was or
dered to be engrofled for a third read
ing.
A letter was received, and read, frorr
the Secretary of the Treaftiry, enclo!ln|
fix. lifts of the persons employed in his de
partment, and the salary allowed to each,
A (latement was a!fo received of the seve
ral Joins made by the executive of the U
nited Spates, purfnant to law, with the ap
propriations of the fame.
Tiie house then went into committee ol
the whole on the invalid peufion bill. Af
ter so me considerable length of debate or
th'l3 bill the committee rofe t without co
:ni:\; to a dec!lion—.and the house adjour
ned till to-morrow.
Saturday, Jan. 5.
Several petitions were read—l. of Wil
liam Seymour, praying a pension in consi
deration of wounds received during the
war—referred to a select committee. 2.
From the merchants of the city of Hud
son, praying it may be made a port of en
try as well as of delivery—referred to the
Secretary of the Treasury. 3* A petition
from Gabriel Allen, praying renewal ol
two 500 dollar certificates, loft-—referred
tp the committee, before appointed for the
purpose. 4- Petition of Nicholas V rig
land, praying renewal of a loft certificate
—referred as before. 5. Petition of Jo
nas Stevens, praying compensation for ser
vices and lofles, during the war—referred
to the Secretary at War.
The Secretary of the Treasury's report
on the petition of Timothy de Mombrun,
■was read—unfavorable to the petitioner-
Voted, that he have leave to withdraw his
petition.
The bill for compensating the widows
and orphans of persons killed by the Indi
ans, while under fan&ion of flags of truce.
&c. was brought in, engrofled, and pall
ed.
The house, then, in committee ot the
whole, went into a long debate on the sub
jest of red&tkig the military sftablilhinttit
of the United States.
A motion to amend the original refoln
tion beitignegatived (jut« 24) the ques
tion wac ;>ut on the original rei'plution, as
moved by Mr. Steele, which was also ne
gatived, 48 against 21—-The committee
then rose and reported accordingly—the
report laid 011 the table—Adjourned.
PHILADELPHIA.
January 9.
On Sunday evening last. the November
Packet arrived at N ■ w-York from Fal
mouth. She brings European intelligence
to the 20th of November. On the 6th of
that month the French attacked the Au
iirian army near Mom with such impetuo
sity, that in the action, which continued
from 8 in tlie morning till 4 in the aiter
iioon. the whole Au Vrian army was com
pletely routed, and retreated to Callrau. a
league beyond Mons. A summons was
mmediately sent in to the last mentioned
r.ity by Gen. Dumourier, to surrender ;
ivhich was obeyed, and 011 the 7th, at 12
Vclock at noon, the French tookpofleflion.
By an article of the capitulation, the An-
Irian forces were to have evacuated the
Belgic provinces (Luxembourg, Limburg.
v.id Guelderland excepted) bytheijth of
November—From these accounts, there
was a complete breaking up of the combi
ned forces ; the whole Au (Irian army was
reduced to 50,000 men, continually wafting
away, and in a most feeble and dispirited
condition.
On the 2-th ultimo great rejoicings were
made in the city of New- York, in confe
qlience of the news of the glorious succes
ses of Republican France against the com
bined forces of despotism and tyranny.'
The bells were set a ringing, and every to
ken of the most animated joy was exhibit
ed ; particularly by the Tammany Society,
who in the evening of the abovementioned
day met at their wigwam, which they illu
minated ; where thirteen patriotic toalls
were, during the evening, drank on this
exhilirating occasion.
A correspondent under the figtiature of
A. B. requests us to fnfert the following
note to a writer who iigns himfelf A Tra
velling Farmer, in the National Gazette,
No 118. —" Great complaints have long
existed among the brethren of your pro
feilion in the middle states of America, ref
pefting what is called by them " the fpew
ir.g o.J of thtirgrain", to the great injury
of their wheat crops. If you can tell t)<
the cause. and remedy, you will merit the
thanks of our country, and you (liall have
those of your humble servant," &c.
The committee of the Assembly of New-
York, have completely gone through the
examination of evidence on the conduct of
the late canvassing committee for Gover
nor, and'are discharged, On the 4th in
stant the house were to go into a full hear
ing on the evidence.
V\'e hear from South Carolina that
William Moultrie, Esq. is appointed go
vernor of that State, for the two years en
suing, instead of Charles Piuckttey, Elq.
whose time is expired.
The citizens of. Boston have m ale a se
cond application to t'ue LegilUture of
Maflachufetts, for a repeal of the law pro
hibiting theatrical entertainments.
A considerable number of persons are
still wanting to work at tlie canal for
uniting the waters of the Schuylkill
with the Sofquefranna.' the canrl at Gone
wago, andfor tfteLancaftcr and Philadel
phia turn-pike road, l ive doliarsf ,a
month 3re paid from November 1, to May.
i ; and !ix dollars a month for the other
iix months —provilions found, and a place
to lodge in, the labourer providing hi own
blanket—Every person who obtains 25
men , to have one dollar for each, and 7
dollars a month.
In a late Boston paper (THfe Argus, of
!>ec. 25) a writer, who signs himfelf " A
Inber man", addrefles tli'e _p''inter as fol
lows :
"The tale is true :—I loved my
country Ifi 1775 my only son fought 011
Bunker-Hill- —I was by,his lide—His mo
ther sent the chair down to carry him
home—She wiped from h.s
nd dreifed the wound in his head '''
washed his bosom,. and drelled the wound
ill hi-; br- '.ft—He died—My neighbour
Small aSsre, insulted my grief ; he laid.
" It was the proper reward of rebellion .'
but that a 'miter would be more proper.
I persevered in the cause of freedom. Con
o'refs wanted money.—l called in my
debts, and fold all my land, excepting forty
acres. In the year 1778, I ' !ac l Twelve
Thousand Dollars in paper money ; I loan
ed the whole ; and when they were conso
lidated at forty for one, I had a loan office
certificate for THREE HUNDRED DOL
LARS. In the year 1784, the General
CourtifTueda large tax. —As I could ob
tain neither t>ie principal, or interest of my
loan office note, I was obliged to fell it.
My neighbour Smallacre saved his proper
ty from the waste of a cause to which he
was heartily opposed, and he appeared to
buy my note at Three Sii'rflings so. Twen
ty By this means, I puu; my state tax
of nine pounds ten (hillings and had four
| pounds left for town and parish taxes.
I A my son was dead, I was content to be
po&r, became 1 was not difiveffed.
;My old chair and horse remained ; they
enabled my wife, who has become infirm
from hard labour, and myfelf, who am a
'cripple with rheumatic diforckrs, to go to
meeting. My Neighbour Smallacre has
now become rich by the purchase of Pub
lic Securities, from people diflrcfTed as I
was. He tells me. that our HANCOCKS,
afid our ADAMS's, and those kind of men,
know how to pulldown a government, but
do not know how to build one.—That the
strength of government depends upon a
Urge Public Debt, which will till the purses
of a few men, who will ftapd ready. Lives
rrnd Fortunes, to hire mercenary troops, to
kill complainers ; and that by borrowing
money in foreign countries, and raifmg Pa
per as Silver and Gold, calli is made
plenty, the people rendered easy and con
tented, until t!ie public opinion eftablifiies
the powers of government so firmly, thai
the Secretary of the Treafnrv may lay tax
es upon real and personal eflales, as wel!
in upon polls ; and then, they who cannol
pay, may become tenants to them whe
can.—-He fays, the :;reat and wife govern
ment 1 . in Europe are all supported in tlii;
way. This is all too deep for me—But I
know what I feel —Neighbour Smallacre
has with my note, got one for One Hun
dred Dollars in Six-Per-Cents —one for
rhe fame sum in Three-l'er-Cents —and
jiie for the fame in the Deferred Stocks.
3v these. he draws nine dollars a year from
:he treasury. Of this, I pay, for the fub
iitence of my wife and myfelf, on 12 gal
011s of molafles 2s —on four pounds of Bo
lea tea 4/6. on 24 pounds coffee (f on 30
iounds of brown sugar 2/6. on 4 gallons of
■um 2/U- on our wearing apparel about
>,/. making in ail £ i : [8. a year ; which
s about 13 percent, interest for the money
le received for my note. What he re
vives besides, makes it about 20 per cent
11 all. —and the property he took of me for
C. 13. 10. will now fell for £. 66.—But I
low find, that the Secretary of the Trea
ury has a New Plan, to lay a Tax of One
):illar more upon my old Chair, and ano
:her upon my oldHorfe. And all this does not
the interest which my good neighbour
Iraws for his £. 13. 10. —My miniver tells
Tie, that all great things are made up of
'mall ones."
[From a Correfbondent.]
In the debates in theHoul'eofFederalße
iiefentatives on the motion to reduce the mi
itary eftabiilhment,abufes in the army were
iccounted for by its dijlance from the feat
md eve of the government. In like man
ler, abuses in the government, mull be fa
voured by its di(lance from the abode and
?ve of the mass of its co.iftituents, which
leceflarUy weakens the principle of refpon
ibility. This is an important truth which
10 real friend to the government will de-
TV, or attempt to pervert. He will rather
j'fe his endeavours to promote the proper
remedies for the evil —such as legal guards
:o prevent abuses, an investigation, andex
pofnre of such as cannot be prevented—
Publ: i>y in all governmental tranfeftions
lot ' r.'t in their nature —frequent and
Fail j. 11?ts thereof tranfmictcd for thc
iiformalion of the people in the distant a:
well as neighbouring parts of the union
Vsthii information cannot be otherwift
.onveyed, with due effect, than thro' th<
han l-l of newspapers, every real frienc
:o the government will be a friend to fret
iswipapers, and to all jtr't measures foi
:hear>ening, expediting, and ensuring, th(
j'.rculation thereof.
'Short abflrait of foreign news by th(
packet.^
On the nth of November. Ghent the ca
pital of Auflrian Flanders, surrendered tc
the French army under Gen. Labonrdou
nave, without opposition—Gen. Valence
it the head of many thousands of his vic
arious troops had entered the province oi
Wartiur. the country every where fubmit
:ing to the republican arms ot France—
The duke-regent of Sweden had acknow
edged the independence and fovereigntj
jf tiic republic of France —On the x Ith o:
November Heile Callel .vasii l lull poflelfioi
Vf the'Trench—Victor Amadeus, king o:
Sardinia; had follicited the affiltance of tht
Swi<s Canto;: ■■ igainft France ; the anfwei
was. that it was the determination of th;
Helvetic Body to preserve the ftrictei
neutrality : 3nd ref'ufing any accefiion tc
the league against the French nation —Gen
Durijoiirier had entered BrufTels at tilt
head of his numerous army, on the nth o:
November, r.midft the most enthufiaftii
acclamations of the inhabitants —whof<
persons and property were held sacred or
theoccauon —the vermin of royalty, v/hi
had long neftied in this city, retreated a
the apprdach of the French ; the Arch,
dutchefs, princes, peers,parahte.~, a:ul mi
nions, and in the rear of the train, Lore
Elgin, th? most noble and pu.i! int aiiihaf
fadpr of England.—The volunteer co.p:
of Ireland were rapidly on the increase.
to demand a repeal of grievances, and
were fnortlv expected to amount to So.ccc
men.—o:i the j. ::i of October the French
armv under Gea. Cuftine, summoned
Mentz to surrender, which being refuted, ...
the city was battered till the morning of the l f
2111, when it was deliveredup on capitula
tion—The eleftdr had previotifly retired
under a guard ofpriefts, but was soon af
ter retaken by his own huflars 12 miles oil
his way—The king of Prussia had order
ed his troops to occupy Luxembourg till
the emperor had indemnified him tor the
expenccs of the war—Gen. Cuftine had,
in addition to his other conquests, taken
Frankfort.—The national convention of
Prince had decreed, that the French Ihould
noflay down their arms until the Aultri
ans re-crofsthe Rhine.
[From a London Paper of Nov. 20.]
By the Packet.
The hews of the taking of Bruflels arri
ved yesterday by three different channel! ;
the tirlf from a banker of Paris, who writes
to his correspondent, that as he was going
to seal up his letter, a private letter had
,>een received, mentioning that Dumourier
had taken pofieflion of Bruflels ; the se
cond by a gentleman who declared upon
Change, that he had advice from his rela
tions at Dunkirk, faying that three days be
fore the 16th inft. the French had entered
Bruflels ; the third another gentleman ar
rived this morning from Bruflels, afl'erts,
that on Friday last he had the pleasure to
brcakfafl with Gen. Dumourier at Bruflels ;
md yet the Monitor of the 16th does not
mention a word of the capture of that place.
The following letter frorn Gen. Dumou
rier, dated Mons, Nov. 7, was read in
the National Convention on the 9th.
" Citizen President,
" For five days has the army of the Re
public been in presence of thelmperialifts ;
and not a day palled without an aflion-
Vi£tory at length crowned our arms, and
Mons is the firft fruit that we have reaped
from it. We were received there this
morning as friends and brethren : the So
vereignty of the People is the basis of every
public opinion here ; and the inhabitants
are eager to take up arms in defence of li
berty ; they are every where forming new
Municipal Bodies ; elections are going to'
take place ; and soon there will be no dif
ference between the province of an Hai
nault and a Department of France. Our
fuccefles give weight to our arguments;
and for once, reason and juilice have been
on the fide of power.
" I cannot (peak in terms fufiiciently
high of the superior bravery of our troops,
and of their humanity after the mod dread
ful battle in the memory of man. Forty
thousand Frenchmen have beat 28,000 Au
ftrians itrongly intrenched in woods and
heights, covered by upwards of 40 re
doubts, by 20 pieces of heavy cannon, and
a great number of light guns and howitzers,
rll all the preceding aflions the advantage
was on-oar fid*? }■ but thebattie of Gejn\ap
pe was decisive : it was one of the mofl:
general that ever was fought. tvery
point of the enemv's line and flanks was
attacked at the fame time. Every corps, I
inay fay every individual in the army, was
engaged ; and after a molt obstinate re
mittance, the French nation was tiiumphant
m every quarter, through those means in
which her strength chiefly consists—artille
ry and the bavonet.
" The Citizen Minister at War will give
the National Convention a more ample de
tail of this important business. A battle so
long disputed and so bravely won, could
not but be attended with a confiderabie
loss of men. I have not yet been able ex
actly to ascertain it; but estimate the num
ber of killed 011 our tide, at 3 co i °f the
wounded about 6co. The loss on the ene
my's fide from the 3d to the 7th, butparti
:ularly on the 6th, amounts to upwards of
1500 prifotiers and cteferters, and upwards
of 400 killed and wounded. Nine pieces
of cannon, some tumbrels, and great quan
tities of ammunition, have fallen into out
hands, and prisoners and deserters are
hourly coming in. The inhabitants ot
Mons", who received us as friends and deli
verers, allure us that more than icoo Au
[trians had concealed themselves in differ
ent parts of the city from their command
ers, for the purpose' of surrendering to us.
I have some light horse in pursuit of the e
nemy, who no doubt Will bring us in more
prisoners. We have found here, some
[tores of forage and provisions. I am dis
patching General Bonneron 011 one fide
with 8000 men, and General Dampierre on
i-iiothcr, with neaviy an equal force, to
make themselves mailers ol Ath, and c£
the immense (lores laid up in that town.
" The Auflrian army has retreated in the
areateft disorder towards Brussels and
Brune-le-Comte : It was to have been
joined the day after the decilive battle was
fought by the forces under the command
of General de Clairfayt : I will soon set
out in pursuit of the runaways.
'• The troops of the Republic, notvvith
flandinn- three nights of bustle, 3nd four
days of fighting, and the absolute want of
many necefTaties, wh:ch cannot ar.'i\e.as
quick as we could wiih, display an ardour
and constancy. which cannot fail to over-'
, cme every difficulty The privates, offi
cers, and generals oi" this army, are all en
titled to the confidence and efleem of the
Nation. Doumotaier.
*** IIIRABEAU in our neat.Continuation of the Dei at: in the House cf
Riprcjiniatives, on I'/ednefd'iy, Dec. 281
re,'alive to the RiduSion of the Military
SJiablifhment of the United States.
Mil. HARTLEY declared himfelf
againll the object of the motion.
He was of opinion, that at this time, when
n treaty of pcace was depending, it would
be highly dangerous to adopt any step for
reducing our military eftablilhment. Tilt
Ptefiiient, he /aid,appeared to him to have
with thegreattft o&conomy in organ
izing th: tarcea he was empowered to raise.
He Hated the difficulty of rai&ng troop;
in this country, and again infill d on the
impolicy of difbandin;, thrfe entitled at this
critical period. A refpeftable force kept
uj>, might product! peace by fpr'ing, and in
that cnle no one would regret the expence
■ the equipment.
Hie part of the country from which the
email who made the motion earnest was
true was not exposed to the incursions ol
the Indians* but this was by 110 means the
cale in other parts of the United States.
He then adverted to Mr. Steele's argu
ments to prove that regular troops were
ti-iegual to a contell with Indians Thert
was 09 inflance in which, lie answered, a
body of regular troops had been beaten by
an equal number of Indians. The army in
the campaign of 1/91 Was urtriifciph'ried ;
the only regiment properly di'cip!in:d at
the time of General St. Clair's defeat was
not in the engagement ; this instance
therefore of the Indians' should
not, he conceived, be drought into view as
a proof of the ineffieacy of regular troop:
in fucli a war. It was evident that the
troops 011 the frontiers this season, had af
forded very ei'Feftual protection to the fron
tier! of Pennsylvania and Virginia.
He dwelt 011 the impropriety of era
ploying the militia in this service : the
dillrefs that the loss of a coniiderable bo
dy of the heads of families in a diftrifl
would occaGon, was too serious an evil to
think lightly of. Men entitling as re
gulars, on the other hand, were chiefly
adventurers and Jingle men, the tufa ol
whom would be much less felt.
Mr. Parker role in favor of the motion.
He adverted to the effects produced by an
inereiife of the Handing forces of this
country, it immmediately occasioned j
proportional increase ot the armies of out
nlous n ighbor3 to the north and south,
■entioned a paper that was some timt
e read in the Houfij, a message or talk
11 Lord Dorchester to the Indians; in
hey were told that prince Edward, :
1 of their friend the great king, had ar
nved with a chosen band of warriors, tc
protect them. The Indians, he said, had
a higher idea of the military protection
ot the Biitilh, and would prefer it tc
ours. The Britilh were better acquaint
ed with the effe£t of military parade on
the Indians, and better able with their ve
teran troops to take advantage of thofc
feelings. Every effort of our 3to enhanct
our military reputation by an encreafe ol
forces would be followed by a similar llej;
in the Britilh colony, and we should in t! e
end only make war 011 our finances. Tht
Britilh, he Hated, were better able to afford
to make a perpetual fliew of ini.itary—:'(
was more-tonfiltent with the lpirit of the 1
political inftiti'.tions ; a limilar fyilem «?.;
not well adapted to the fentimen's of the
people here, where citi/.en foldiets were
ready to turn out for fometbing substan
tial only.
Before this tail war with the Indiars.
depredations had no doubt been ni3de by
them on our territory, and by our people
on theirs, but nothing serious had occur
ed till the war was begun.
He approved of garrisoning those polls
that aould afford shelter to the inhabitants
of the frontier in cafe of attack ; but did
hot think regular troops adequaie to any
other talk in an Indian war. He infilled on
the opinion that the militiaalone were equal
to undertake an offenlive wai againll the
Indians.
Mr. Fitzfimons firfl spoke of the impor
tance of the quedion. It ilrikcs at a to
tat alteration of the fyilem adopted to
preserve peace and protest our frontier
citizcns. He was not of opinion that
those citizens on the frontiers were able to
protest the country ; the light which
would be thrown on the fnbjeCt in the
course of the debate, he expected would
determine the point; he hoped the qucf
tion would be amply difcufled. But in the
tnean time he was sorry, he said, to fee an
attempt tr.ade to influence the opinions
of members by ftatemeuts and calculations,
which he imagined were by no means ac
curate. He mentioned an inflance in
which they had been placed in such a point
of view, as might make ail improper im
predion. The gentleman dated, that the
war had cost the Union upward of 3,cir,ooc
dollars.
Mr. Steele said in explanation, that he
hadalTerted, that that sum had already beer
appropriated, or was called for.
Mr. Fitziimons said, the money appro
priated was not all expended ; and" that
asked for was ilill i;i die power of the
House to gr..nt or not. He could nol
politively fay, at fir ft view of the gentle
man's calculations, whether they were al
equally erroneous, but this iuflanee.he con
ceived, was not mSjch in favor of his ac
curacy. Circumltances might very wel
account for a difference in the eitpencc
of the ar-ny ; troops near fort Washing
ton could not be provided at the fame rati
as in more populous parts of the ilates
The depending treaty of peace he declared
raised a great objection in his mind tot!,,
object of the motion. If on confidcra
tion, however, it should appear, that tin
frontiers could be better defended withou'
regulars, and a valuable saving made, 1-.
fhou dbe in favor of- the motion. He re
minded the gentleman when he quote,
the amount of the saving he pvopofeJ, L
had forgot to into view the expend
of the 5 Kentucky expeditious.
Mr. Steele said he had mentioned thai
these might cach cod 30,000 dollais.
Mi. White exprc-iTcd his diilike to re
gular (landing forces, and that he wifhci
more life had been made of the miiiti:
againit the Indian:;. Yet he was averfi
to a reduction, 11 r. I- f« a more efFrftual plai
of defence was offered as a fubftimte t<
that now in ire.
I: was moved to i> fer the motion to ;
committer of the whole
Mr. Steele t xprefTed hiswifh to fee tin
>Hje£t of the motion difcufTed in commit
ice. He said femething on the accurac
jf his llatements vvh cl» had been qneflion
ud, anJ menti uied the foir.-.e fiora whicl
they were drawn.
Mr. VV illiamfun, as a proof of the efli
.acy of iuilitia in oppolition to the Indi
ans, cited the iuilance of major Adair':
reliilance to a body greatly superior ir
numbers.
Mr. Smith, S. C. declared himfelf a
the object of the resolution. Tin
President, he laid, had the power to dif
iund any part of the army when their fer
nee was no longer wanted, and his confi
Jence in the President (a feeling whjcl
trom the unanimous vote of re-election In
had recently received, seemed to be ver;
preva'ent) led him to feel well la'isfiei
that they would not be kept in service un
necessarily one moment.
Mr. Dayton next rose. He said lit
was in fivor of referring the in iiion to <
committee of the whole house. :1 .■ fhouk
not, he declared, liave risen, if he had no'
heard from the two members from North.
Carolina the ftrnngell perversion of argu
inent, and the rr.olt extiaordinary kind o
rcafoning he ever remembered to hau
heard. The memb.r who lpoke firfl fron
N C. decried every idea of energy anr
efficiency in regular ctifciplir.ed troop
confide ring them not only inefficient bin
contemptible when employed againll In
clians, and to confirm his afßrtion had in
llanccd the expedition and defeat undei
Gen. St Clair, when it was well knowi
that there were not in fa£t two coinpanie:
as regular difciplmed infantry in the army
that General—The other member har.
as extravagantly commended the b.<c!<
country militia, and extolled them foi
their elSciency and luccefs in Indian war
fare, ot which niaj t Adair in a late ren.
counter with a superior body of favagei
had, he said, furnifhed an evidence. lii
mfwer to this Mr. D. was compelled tc
icmark, what he should otherwise nevei
have done, that the affair alluded to, made
on his mind a very different impression,
and lea to a conclusion diredlly contrary
to that which the gentleman had drawn
Irom it—The major had unquestionably
been surprized, and as unqueflionab'y been
beaten, and fuffered the capture of almofl
all his horses and other property in hi?
camp, but what he conceived to be (till
worie, it appeared that at the commence
ment of the action, about half of his men
defertedhim, and secured themfelvcs with
in the garrison. This instance of the
prowess of irregulars feledted by the N. C.
member to support his arguments would,
Mr. Dayton believed, be found upon en
quiry to be an unfortunate one.
As he was upon the floor, Mr. Dayton
observed that he could not refrain from
taking some further notice of the labored
speech which the house had just heard
>iOm the mover of the proportion under
coniidcration. He should, he said, be
(hort, for no member could be supposed to
be prepared to answer a speech which
certainly no one could have expected to
have heard within those walls ; but as he
thought it probable such another one
would never again be uttered there, lie
could not omit a remark or two upon it.
It was admirably calculated) and would
feein to have been designed, to prejudice
the people o! the United States agaimf
the whole adminiflratiori of the govern
ment. It would doubt Lis be recclledted
that but a few days ago, this very gentle
man was tlrenuoufly contending for pro
priety, decorum, and decency in debate,
w"ich he complained, was not observed by
gentlemen who were opposed to the re
port of the committee on the failure of tht
wel'ern expedition ; notwithllanding this,
not contented with levelling the molt un
bounded cenlure againll the head of tht
war department, he had lavished the molt
virulent abuse upon the President of tht
Lr.iied States particularly, and Upon :
large majority of both houfesof Congrefc.
1 he member had produced a variety o:
arithmetical (latcments and calculatione
t.he accuracy and truth of which not only
had been queltioned. but denied by othei
members who had replied to him. On:
thing Mr. Day ton laid he could not avoh
remarking, which was that that gentle;
man h-d rcprefented as unaccountabh
and mvfter'ous the encreafed appropriati
ons for the war department for 91, 92
and 93, as if it was in any wife flrange
that 2000 men should require more ordi
nance, h fpita!, and quarter mailer's (lore:
than icoo, or that live thousand mti
should require more than them both, Yt
f:om statements of that nature the gen
tleman affected to believe, and boldly de
dared that there mult be the groflelt abu
fes in the adminillration. If the annu
al encreafe of our expences for
the irontiera, defcrved the censure that
had been so liberally bestowed, it ought
to fill direilly upon the legislature who,
Mr. Dayton said, had directed it by their
laws, and not upon the executive wI.l
were merely the inflrument to carry thole
laws into etfeft.
So much for the speech, but with refpeft
to the motion which called lor a very dif
ferent anfwer,and more mature confiderati
dn, he should only add, that however h
tnig't favor a redudiion of our military e
llablifhment, if the quellion flood upon it;
own merits alone, unconnected with some
recent circymftauces, he should think it
his duty to oppose liie measure at the pre
lent, as it might tend to einbarrafs the ex
ecutive in their pursuits and profpeits ol
pacification, and because he well knew it
to be the temper of the Indians, and in
deed of every other people, to rife in their
demands in the fame proportion that their
treating eneny quieted their fears, and
ltfleued their danger. If our e(la;lifh
m.nt was determined to be lefTened, it
woui'd be known to the savages before the
treaty—in consequence of which, he did
Hot doubt, they would become more ei
travagant and insolent in their terms, and
that of course what was now recommend
ed as an (Economical saving to the public,
would eventually prove to be profulion in
the extreme.
*'r. U adtworth ejprefled h'mfelf in a
few words against the resolution.
Mr. Ames did justice to the gentle
man's industry in the collection of materi
als in support of his motion. An oppor
tunity, he hoped, would be given to go
ov.r the ground he had so ably traversed.
He laid something of the necessity of
(lability in the mealures of every govern
ment, on the importance of the quellion
which the fate of the resolution was to de
cide, and hoped it would meet an ample
difcuflion.
1 he motion for referring the resolution
to a committee of the whole was agreed
to, and Wednesday was appointed to take
it up.—Adjourned.
[To ti continued.]
A FEW COPIES OF THE
transactions
Of the Society inflit-utei in the State cj
Ne-w-Yotk, for the promotion of
AGRICULTURE, ARTS, and MANU
FACTURES,
May be had at this Office.
[Price half a uoLLA-]
Jan. 5.
Terres a Vendre
SAvni^T-"" faU - bl <"
4VUI "' iwixance cinq mille, trois cens, foir.
ante et quatorae Acres, en one feole pitce.
dans le cant::, h rr.ieux peuplede la Caroline Me
ridiouale, leDiftiift de Ninety-Six. Cej terres
lunt lituees dans une contre'e agri-able, et falubre,
ou ies iievrcs font inconnues; a environ vingt lieues
, Co'o'Dbie, ia Capitale, et contigues ala villa
<ic Cambridge, « u il y a College, ct Cour fuperi
eure. A environ douze lieues, ily a bonne nave
gation ; et il e:l tres probable, que dans queiqui
terns on rendra navigable le Grand Saiude, riviere
qui arrole Its terres mcmes. Elles font agreable
ment diverfiliies de cjteaux et vallons charnian*
proprrs a la culture du tabac, du coton, du mais.
et du petit grain ; ec dont une proportion confider
a.ile fc pent ailement couvertir en prairies fertiles,
ilneeft peoe-et.r guciei poflible de rencontrerune
p.neijle pitte 05 teire a vendre dans aucun autre
dei E'ats Ur.is ; et pour les conditions de I'ach aC
un les rendra trcs commodes.
. S a l impiimerie de la Gazette Na
t,onaie - Sept. s .
LANDS for SALE,
JJi a wHI ferried Country. SIXTY.FIVE
u THOUSAND THREE HUNDRED AND
SEVENTY- FOUR ACHES OF LAND, in one
Judy, 1:1 the most populous part of the state of
soiit!).Carolina, in tile diftrift of Nioety-lix-.-Jc
s fltuated in a fine healthy climat-,free from fever
fc ague,about sixty miles from Columbia, the fear
>1 government. The land is contiguous to the
town or Cambridge, where are a feminarv for the
inftruition u/ youth, and a fjperior law court. It
IS at prelent within abuut thirty-fire miles of gc,„;
navigation, with a probability of having the river
called the Great Saluoa, that flows along one tide
"f the land, made navigable. The land is beauti
l.ullv diverfified into fwellj and vales, anj is per.
tcciiy well calculated for the culture of tobacco
cotton, Indian corn, and small grain; a o^. a |
proportion of it may be made meadow ground.
1 here IS not, perhaps, such a body of land, so cii
tiimftanced, tor sale in any otherof the V. States
The terms of payment will be made convenient - i
the purchaser or purchafeis. Apply to the Printer.
Auguli uwf
Philadelphia & Nen/.Yark
stages,
BY WAY OF
TURLINGTON, BORDENTON, & SOUTH.
A MB OT—
yV £rC Irom Samuel Cooper 1 : Ferry, oppo
me to Philadelphia, e«ery Sunday and \Ved
y morning, during the winter faafon, 2»<l
"rive at South-Amboy on Monday, and Thurfri.lv
evenings where a good boat will be ready 10.C;;-
> r y Cooiis and Paffengersio New-Yoik.
• :ie Stage br.ats will leave New-York every
Monday and Tin,,(day, so as to meet the Stapes
'' ' ■ ''' • " r'' !; lat ,11to proceed for
I.Jelplua next day. All Ravage belonging
palls ngcrsto be at their own riicjue.
All Goods forwarded by the Stages on bill, to
be under the particular care or" the Proprjetoraof
the Stages j but not warranted robbery oc
damage—And ail enteri„ 6 , vising and permits,
to be paid by the owneis of good,s.
Price of a pafiage from Cooper's ferry toNev-
Vo,k > * £o. .8. 9 .
2colb. of Goods, to pay the price of a pafTaje,
All VVay palTtfngers, 3d pei mile.
A:»10d HUTCHINi, and ? Por Burlijiir-
NU HOLAS SCHEMCK, i ton lire/
VAN EMBURGH & M'KEAN, > For Sordea
and DAVID WILLIAMSON, j ton line.
Dtcemb.r 24, ,792. [taw.ew.l
NOTICE.
persons having demands against t!»e ei>ate
of Godfrey VarMrtin, Jaie oi Tiiicks County,
deceas d, aje requeued to exhibit their accounts,
properly Authenticated, in order for feftlemertt—-
And those who are indebted to said etiate to make
immediate payment, to
JOHN HOUGH, Admvnitfraror.
B u ck» County, Dec. 28, J7§z. 4t , lavv
Soon ti'Hl !)g pul}!i{pad
Ti|£ SYSTEM O.F
<-"//iort-^6 ? a7id }
Used ly Mr. Lloyd, in laihg down tie Delates ef
CetigreJ'sy—
AS"i STEM so eaiy, that any man, of ordina
ry capacity, clearly it in
half an hour, and feon practice it, u> its fulleft
extent, without any further inftru&itfn, than what:
*'i Ibe cofive\cd in a few pages,—the whole ART
being compriied in eighteen fimpjfi cbflwSi.e'ri, with
out any of those perpiexipg, arbitrary parks, with
which the learners of other systems are obliged t3
burden their memory, and embarraL their prac
:ice.
Price, to Subscribers, Or.e Dollar :—to Ncn-
Subscribers, a Doilar and half.
Subscriptions leceived by Meflrs. Rice. Eook«
ellers, Maiket-lireet, and by
JOHN CAREY, No. -6, Pear,ftreet,
Half a Dollar to be paid at the time of
fubferibing.
For fate, at the printing office, a few copies
of the firjl to'ume of the National Gazette*
PRINTED BY
CHILDSandSWAIN E,
AT THEIR OFFICE N0.209, ftIGK-STRKXT
HEAR FIFTH-STRR IT,
p Nit, ad i l r h i a »