Numb. 46 of Vol. ll.] S A T U R 0 A Y, April 6, 1793.
Additional Report of the Secretary of the
TreaJ.ry. Relative to the Loans negoti
ated under the A:ts of the 4th and izth oj
A,.git ft, 1790-
f Continued from our laft.~\
THESE last bills were drawn, when thr
rapid rife or (lock commenced, anil
were fold upon a credit of three months
It was a natural conjecture, tftUt a rife f'
li.dden and violent couldnat b? of longdu
lation—and that a declension w«,uld wort
lv succeed, which would afford an oppor
t unity of purchaii ig with advantage ; and
render the intervention of puolic pnrchi
i'r■ uivantajjpoiis in more than onerefpect.
The event fully corresponded with the an
ticipation.
With regard to the bills drawn in April
lafl, it lias been dated that they were di
rected to be fold upon a credit of (ix
months; thatthuf. drawn in July, Augutl
ami October ,vercmade payable, o ie moi
ety i.i two, the other moiety i 1 four
months. Hence, with a moderate allow
ance for delay in the sales, the period con
templated by the arrangement for the com
mencement of receipts was the month of
October ; that for their consummation tht
month of February.
The inducements to the draw ing of thefc
bills have been (tated. The present exam
ination lus relation merely to the qneltioo,
whether the bank of the United States., by
premeditation of this department, or fnb
fequent omissions, had enjoy d any undue
advantage from the of the pro
ceeds of the bills at the end of the year
1792, the point of time to which this en
quiry has reference.
T'le itatemeiK which his been made as
to the time the morircs received to that pe
riod had remained in d.polit might alone
be relied upon as a futficient answer. It
delinquency can he attached to the 11011-
empiovment of one or two hundred thou
f mil dollars for 1 few weeks in the money
operations of a :> ition, it implies a minute
.n-jfs of responsibility, which could never
be encountered with prudence, aud never
■will be fulfilled in practice. The diffrac
tions of attention, incident to a great and
complicated scene of bulinefs would alone
<jilappoiiit the expectation.
But I lave 111 are than this to offer, upon
the present occasion The opportunity for
inverting the monies on hand during the
period in queltion favourable. This
was experienced by til- Treasurer in his en
deavors to invest the fund arising from the
interelt on the purchased debt. There
was 110 part but the deferred, which coulc
be had at all within the limits prescribed.
Several indications of an approaching fea
l'on, more advantageous for purchase, were
difcernable, and a better employment ol
the money than at the then prices prefent
editfelf to the option of the Legislature.
This mode of employing it so medin rnj
wind part of a general plan for the regu
3ar redemption of the public debt accord
irig to the right reserved to the govern
ment. The one per cent, which might bt
saved, was regarded as 0:1 c mean of con
stituting the proposed annuities.
Accoidinglv: Oi the }oth of Noveni
iier lad, pursuant to a reference of the 22c
of that month, and. connected with the
j.l an of redemption contemplated, I si b
initted to the House of Representative*
proportion for applying the monies in ;uef
lion, towards discharging the debt, whit
the government owes to the bank, and up
-on which an interelt of lixper cent- is pa)
able. This was manifeltly, at the time ol
»he proportion, tne molt profitable life
that couid be made of the fund. It ha
been already stated that it would produce
a saving, if extended to the whole two
millions, worth to the government an an
iiual sum of 20.000 dollars, equal to a ca
pital of 400,000 iloliars.
This proposition tended to accelerate
the employment of the monies 011 hand i:
a way the molt beneficial to the govern
inent ; and consequently to Ihorten the du
ration of the advantage to the banks ot
holding them, by way of elepolit. I fubmil
it to the candour of the f'oufe, whethci
it be not full evidence, that there was nc
difpolition, on my pa. t. to prolong to those
2 lit 11111 ions a benefit, at the expeuce of tlu
government.
The proposition itfelf has not yet re
leiied the decilion of theEoufe.
Another grot, I, upon which the fug
jeftion of niifmamigciiient and undue con
-1 ellion to the interests of the banks lias
been sounded—respect. the domefiic loan*
vhich have been obt ined. Those of them
vhichhavc been mack of the Bank ol the
By P. F R E.N £ A U: Publijked W Ejp t/esda ys and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
United States are reprefentecT a* unne
oelfUry, tending to afford an emolument to
that institution. for which the fc'yjted
">t. t.'S hid no equivalent advantage.
It will conduce to a correct judgment oi
this matter to re fume a point already touch
ed upon, arid to add here the turii, r iliuf
trations of it which have been pi'vmifed
to wit) that it on.wit to be a genti<ji prin
ciple to have confVautly in the toiiupand ot
tne treafnry, at its different plates ..'1 de
jolit, a Turn of about 500,000 dollars • a
principle, too, which mini be undcrflood
with reference to the be; innings of the
quarters of a year, when tile chief publu
payments are made and making.
file following observations will apph
generally to the balances, which appear ai
tne commencement of each quarter. Tilt
greatell part of t'le interefi lor the pre
ceding quarter will have been then deduc
ted. But a part is always in a different li
t nation.
The payment of" interefi upon a publu
d. bt, at thirteen different places, Han ope
ration as difficult and complicated, as it i:
new. In carrying it into execution, it i
ui necellity to lodge for some lime previ
ous to the expiration of eath quarter, ct
several of the loan-offices, drafts of thi
Treafurerfor the funis ellimated to be ne
eiirii y, at those offices, with bl.inrt» for ttic
direction, and with liberty to the respec
tive officers to dispose of them upon dif
ferent places, as a demand accrues. 1 hi;
irrangement has an eye to two purpon.s ;
:o avoid large previous accumulations at
points ; tofacilitate the placing
jf the requisite funis, where they are want
;d, without the transportation of specie.
I'he allowing of the drafts to be disposed
jf 011 several places gives larger scope to a
leinand for them and renders them more
>a!tjy saleable. But it is a confequwite oi
his. that a part of the drafts arroften not
>laced and brought into the accounts oi
he Treafiirer, 'till some time aftertheex
>iration of the qu.irier. The fund tot
hem of course appears on hand, 'till the
ranfaclionis completed.
Coiuiefted with the circumflance of pay
lg the interelt upon the public debt at dif
"ere'nt places is this further confeqnence.
The trail fers continually going 0.1 iron'
Dne office to ano her render it imp ffibie tt
enow at any moment, when provilion foi
.he payment of interelt is to be made,
■x hit sum is requisite at each place. Mi
niate riiuft fnpply the want ot knowledge,
md to avoid disappointment any where,
theefliinate must always be large, and ■
.orrefpondent sum placed in the power 01
the commiflioners. The circumftanc<
alone requires an extra fnm at the differ.
;nt places of payment, which ought not ti
De computed at less than 50,000 dollars.
j\ffiin—the fmns payable on account o:
the civil lift, at the end of each quarter
which amount to about fifty thousand do!
lars, exclusive of what relates to the tw c
Houses of Congress, are always in a courft
jf payment for some time within the Cue
-ceding quarter. The fund for them con
sequently appears in the monies on hand al
the beginning of such quarter.
Again : There are conltantly confider
-1 hie arrears of existing appropriations, foi
cvhich demands on the treasury are at eve
y moment pofEble—the times when the)
v ill be presented, and to what extent, ai
my time given, being in a great degree
0 itingent The arrears for the different
>bjects of the war department, can feldon
be ettimated at lefsthan 150,000 dollars.
It is presumed to be a clear principle,
that the treasury ought to be always rea
dy to face fucli arrears, as may be clainiet
ar every inffant, or within any short peri
od. An hour's difirefs or embarrassment
to make good a public payment, alread\
ilue, would be baneful to public credit, li
lias been a uniform maxim of the prefeni
aduiiniOration of the treasury never to rift
uch difirefs or embarraflinent.
Independently therefore of the weight;
onfideration of being prepared (efpeciall)
■vith a war 011 hand liable every moment tt
greater extension) forfeiture casualties.the
mere fatisfa£tion of arrears, ought to cauft
he conflant reservation of a sum, thai
would be moderately dated at half the fun
which it has been alledged ought alw ays
to be in the treasury. It is to be observed
that it does not often happen, that the cur
rent receipts to be expected in ai:v imme
diately fucteeding quarter, are likely to
exceed the probable expenditure of thr
ijiiarter. The reverse is as often the cafe.
1 'cute thegre.iter neccffity oi maintaining
a coafiant ftrplus.
There are (till other confn'erations of
weight, in a just eftiniate of the point in
question.
The fnm stated, as neceflary to he al
ways in the command of the trealury, i
never in fact at the feat of the government,
where far the greatest part of the public
ilifburfements are to be made. 1 he deposi
tories ot it are the several banks tron
Charleflon to Bolton. The whole fun.
therefore can never be brought into imme
diate action, for answering the claims upon
the treasury. No part can be proper!)
viewed as in this situation, beyond New-
York on the one fide and Baltimore on the
other. Whatever part is more remote
than those points, ought not to be regarded
.is capable of being commanded in less time
upon an average, than sixty days, makii.f
allowance tor the nfual delays in the sale
of bills, & the usual terms of credit, which
, xperiente has fliewn to be convenient.
In eftimacing die effective fnm at any
time on hand, in the bank ot the United
States, it is neceflary to be known, that a
Practice for the Amplification of the 1 ret
furer's bank account, begun with the bank
"f North America, ha? been continued with
the bank of tile United States, ot this na
rure—The bills drawn by the Treasurer
upon d rtant places, and deposited with
the bank for sale, are immediately pafled
to his credit as cash; though they are allow
ed to be fold at credits from thirty to iix
ty days ; and it is understood, that the pro
.eeds are not demandable of the bank, 'till
;hey are collected. He<ue the apparent
sum ill the bank of the United States is al
ways greater than the real; Ibinetimes to
x large amount.
The deductions to be made for this cir
cumstance are Ihewn in the Treasurer':
in If monthly llatement of balances No. V ;
beginning with the tit It ot June 1792, and
ruling wills the firft of J.inuaiv 1-9;.
The period begun with is that, when tlu
irfl inflalment of the loan from the bank
nas payable ; and has been feleftcd foi
this reason.
The propriety of tliefe deductions ap
Dears to have been objected to, by antic;
jation, on two grounds—one, that the bill'
iopofited anfwtr all the purpefes of end;
md ought to be credited as fuel), on the re
:eipt of them—the other, that '-there is a
-egular and conitant influx <*f monies into
:lie bank, by the operation of these bills—
md that it is not very material whether r
3111 lodged in the bank to day fhculd be
jaid to day, provided something like the
ame sum fhoulcl be paid in conference o.'
1 bill lodged in the bank one or two month;
igo, and the bill of to day (houid be paic
>ne or two months hence.
Neilhci the one nor the other of theft
two positions is correct.
In no sense are the notes, of the purchas
er» of the bills, which-are taken, payable ir
30,45 ar: d (o days the fame thing to a bank
as ctijli. 'Tis evident it could not pay it:
own bill with thole notes. In this prima
ry particular therefore the compai ifoti fail:
—neither could it make d.(counts upon the
balls of those notes as cajh. Becanfe ever;
discount gives a right to a borrow er to cal
and receive in coin, it he pleases, the. a
mount of the sum discounted. Notes are
noi coin, nor do they confer an equal pow
er to pay. 11 is tree that a bank will ii
its discounts some calculation on ex
pected receipts—but it can never confidei
them as equivalent to calh in hand—nor
operate upon them in any degree to the
fame extent as upon equal funis in cash.
If notes payable at future periods were c
quivalent to cash, then every discount made
by a bank would confer a faculty to make
another for an equal sum ; for there is al
ways a note depolited for the sum discount
ed—and the power of d fcounting might b>
the mtve txvrcift of it become i.ifinite. Ar
hypothelis of this kind will never hearted
upon by any prudent directors of a bdnk,
and could net be long aOed upon, without
ruin to theinftitution. It is to be observ
ed that the great profitable bulinefs of 2
bank consists in difcounthig.
There is but one light in which the po-
Gtition under examination is in any degree
founded. It is this, that were it not sOl
the Jnftrunientality of the bill-;, the specie
of the bank would be fonietin.es remitter
for purposes which are answered by the
bills. As often a;; this happens, they are a
fubflitute to the bank for calh, becanfe the)
prevent equivalent funis from being earn
ed away.
But this oily sometimes happens. In
llimerous instances the enttrprifes to
which the bills are fubfc.-vlent would uot
[Total No. i 50.]
be undertaken at all, were it not for the
power ot' ant'"i|>'tion, which the credit's
upon them afford. In many other inilaii
ces the bills of the bank itfelf would b;
remitted itiftead ot specie ; in others p:i
vate bills vvou.d be lubftitnted; in others
mutual credits between the merchants, to
be liquidated in the course of mutual dca.-
ings, would supply the call.
[ To be continued.']
~lVe are requefled to injert the following
Addrefs,fro m Mejfrs. Loudom' Zlcvj- \ or!;
Diary, of Mar en 27 th~\
Meflrs. Printers,
LAST spring, soon after the cojivtilfions
in the speculating world, WILLIAM
DUF.R, had the following hand-bill pub
i(lied and difperled in this town :
•' To the Holders of tingngemerits uuder
the signature of the Si.bjcriber.
" New-York Prison, March 24, 1792.
" It is with regret that the fubferiber
inds himlelf disappointed in bringing for
ward to his creditors. 011 this day, such fpe
ific propolitions for the ultimate redemp
tion of his debts, as he had once reason to
;xpe&.
•■At a meeting ofa number of gentlemen
jail of whom (tiled tbenifelves his friend?-,
iwl amonglt whom some were reaiiv (<>)
t was thought advifeable to pollpone the
wblication of the plan he had in view, fill
t was supported by them in such a ma.nwr
is they conceived moll likely to infurc fuc
:efs.
" But (the can Per of such change it is
lot necessary to detail) the.malice of op. ,1
Miemies, end the inlidioiis ii.lnitiations of
jretended friends, have chilled the fir it
;low of benevolence : andlelt'o h* !> 1 i>-
briber the grtardianfhip ot his own tame,
1 id that of the interelt of all his creditors.
\facred trull! which the Itibfcriber piedg.-
;s hivnfelf to discharge with fidelity and
lonor.
" In this view it is proposed by him as
ollows :
'• ill. That he will within nine months,
omputed from the prefentd ate, (or so n
?r if pollible) maKe a fettlemcnt of all hu
oncerns, point out the sources and amouin
>f his lofles, and constitute' an adequate
und for the ultimate redemption of the
>rincipal and legal interefl i t his debts.
'• 2d. That this fund ihalt he so fornu d
is not to place it within his own reach, to
livert it irom the objects of its dei'hia
:ion.
" 2d. That he will make prompt arranye
nents for the re-imburfement in the si 1 it
nflance, of all advances made by ditlrcl
ed widows, or orphans, mechanics a::u
radefmen, to whom any coniiderable tie
ay would operate as ruin.
" 4th. That til! the above objects are t f
fefted the w alls of a prison ll.all fecme
;hat confidelice v hich he feels might have
aeen juflly placed in his honor.
" sth. That trtilling to time, and a
conscience void of intended injtnyfor ji f
tification, he at present leaves to h.s tnt -
miesthe cruel triumph of'fportingover Irs
afflictions ; and to a generous people v. ho
may dill be mindful of his public and pri
vate services, the proteciiou of a i.ru.i.us
wife and innocent family.
"Win. DUTIi"
Twelvemonths have e'apf d (ince tie
publication of this Address, a d the crec! t
ors of Mr. Otter appear as diltant as t».r
from the settlements p; 0111 A d.
The gimp nfbenev <let,ce so cilfphaticallv
mentioned, seems to be fncceede<l by t ie
chill apathy of a hardened impol'or. he
whole was nothing more f. 0111 the beg .li
ning than an expansion of that diabolical
yltem of fraud and villainy, which ta s
arch-impostor—this in r amotis swindler—
this ronber and mifcreaiu, bad coiiceiti dto
fleece the innocent and unfufpectinj;. ot the
hoaeft gains, and hard earnedpittai.cc tiny
happened to pofl'efs.
Nine months w ere the extent propoful
by himfelf-—at that time it v as thought 1111-
neccifarily long; but not knowing la-*"
far his accounts were etnbarraiic <? aid
perplexed, by the carelefiiiefs and precip.-
tation which marked his own proc'i uln ,
as w ell as those of It is co-adju 1 01'— the r.
ceffity of patience was aiquitfctd in, aud
Mr. Dut r was unmolelled
That the whole w as an ilhtfive dr< epti
oii- proportion in the firrt inft iiuf,
from the refult—for. if lionc.i; and ho
nor ...,d .0. ii.ccl - p.t.t i llie >.w.ii:itt.iiitprinciples of his ch.-raSei 1 —T that i:obls
p_lo v of Sympathy for the unfortunate
po >r. lad iiuc retided mereiy 111 the hollow
i\jinnl of profefliuii, would not Something
tangible have been brought into view be
fore this, for their belief? His conduit
7/ives the lie direfl to Ins pretended fenfibi
iity. as displayed in the 3d proportion—and
curSss of the n-fceflitous widow and orpliaii
reduced to indigence, are now daily heard
:j 5.1 in ft the author of their w retch ed
llefs.
A view of the 4th proposition will afford
one of the molt demonstrative proofs ot
his duplicity that could pollibiy be given;
< ontr acted with his present Silence, and his
pertinacity, what imprellions does a peru
f d of that article leave upon the mind? —
The ivalls of a pri/'on, secure that
CONFIDENCE tu'itch hi feels might have
b:en JUSTLY placed in his HONOR.'
Honor!— Good God! A prostitution of
terms, hitherto held Sacred among man
kind, is here discovered. which, by all dif
cerning men was seen in the beginning,
and which the moit credulous mull now
See as obviously as the fun 3t noon.
After hliving precipitated thousands into
distress—aster" having ruined hundreds,
to whom he never meant to make repa
ration, the deluforyaddrefs comes forward;
couched in terms, and conceived in a man
ner which apparently prepoflefied feverai
(who were uninterefled) in his favour.
Hio deSign undoubtedly was to lull the pub
lie vigilance, and allay the ferment and ex
alteration excited by a detection of hi:
baseness and fraud.
He has now appealed to "7V»je"—bill
ho.v does it refulr in a conviction that he
pofl'efl'ed "A conscience void of intendet
injury!"—-Is it not rather evident tiiai
conjcious guilt drove him to feck an afylun
within the ltrong walls of a prison ; per
suaded that 110 other method would be ft
effectual to elude the vengeance of lus cre
ditors?
" An adequate fund for the ultimate re
demption of the principal and legal i: ter
eft of all his debts," was proniifed within
nine months —Where is it ?—We hear 11c
more about Mr. Oner's arrangements i
11 either never exilted even in possibility,
or it has indeed been " placed beyond hii
reach," —The general opinion, that he poS-
Seises a secreted property of great amount
is probably well grounded ; ior it would be
next to miraculous that the whole could be
ililflpated so suddenly and entirely, as to
leave him deflitute —One of his Subordi
nate tools has been Hourifiling at Newark,
and scattering the grains of villainy with a
profufion equally extraordinary and intle
fenlible, coniidering the derangement of his
affairs, and the jult claim which many
have 0.1 hi 111 fell as well as on his princi
pal.
To divert the public mind from the con
templation of his business, Mr. Oner, 1 ill
Snring, when the conduit of the cnuvaffer?
was the object of ferutiny throughout thi:
slate, came forward under the signature of
Oracctiuand by his polluted phillipp'cs.
endeavored to raise a faitious Sedition
a along the people, in the hopes, that in
proportion as our thoughts were engaged
on .1 great political topic, would tine infa
my of his traufaftions, the complicated vil
lainy of h'sSpeculating projects be obliterat
ed from the memory—That period is paS
sed—the question has been decided by the
legislature, and it is now high time to ad
vert to objeits which more immediately
and personally affect 11 s.—l therefore call
upon you,
WILLIAM DUER!
to enter on your proniifed explanation •
exhibit your account ; point out the sources
and amount of your lojfes ; and conjlithte
an a.U.juate fund for the ultimate redemp
tion of the principal and legal ivterejt oj
all your debts. Your character is already
1 tamped with VILLAINY in letters legible
to all the world ; retrieve it if pofiible;
surprise us with a performance ot your en
g igemcnts ; and give one more proof, that
though you have deceived the people into
a belief of yourpojfible honesty. by a fal
lacious address : yet your intentions were
rigidly honorable, and that your confine
ment has been for 110 other purpofc than to
enable you to perform the part of an ho
uclt man.—The foppofed impofiibility of
your being a man of honor and honesty will,
then strike us with a proportionate aston
ishment. D.
From the Virginia Gazette.
y T is to be regretted, that under a re
publican government, and among people
who have fought for its inefiiinable and
fundamental characterises ; there fliould
be any persons patronized by the commu
nity who do not contribute towards Sup
porting the enchanting fabric.
Bin strange as it may appear to be, the
liberty of the press, though Secured by the
con!ti:ution of the United States, is fet
tered : and by whom? Those very per
lon, who have been fanned into animation
bv the friendly breezes of public confi
dence; who, contrary to the principles of
atirude, treat the dear bought privile
:. of their countrymen with contempt, to
■i- uify a few inSignificant characters, who
irom their conScious tangibility, mav wiih
10 shield ■ aemSelves under the banners ol
» vena! ar reffrai.ied preSs.
-11l Ei.gVmd, before the genial rnys of
freedom had invigorated the mi ids of the
people, the liberty ot the press was not
known : theart of printing was only va
luable to the governors, because it was
•• fybject to the coercion of the crown.*"
but we find at a subsequent period, when
the representatives ot tlie people began to
have a proper idea of their importance,
though attempts were madebyene branch
of government to continue its fetters
" yet tiie parliament reiifted them so
llrongly that oppolition finally expit ed, and
the press became properly free in
and lias continued so ever linct-:'' and we
may farther remark that a crown law
yer, whose mind it is natural to fnppofe
was under undue influence, has not the
confidence to recommend any other re
(lraint, " than to punilli (as the law doet
at present) any dangerous or offenfive wri
tings, which, when publiflied, lhall on
fair and impartial trial, be adjudged of a
pernicious tendency."
If this was the language of a Minion, at
a crilis too, when the representatives of
the people were perpetually ilruggling a
gainll the ariftocratical branch of govern
ment ; lhall those to whom we have dele
gated authority, at this enlightened period,
when the whole universe is in agitation,
and zealoudy engaged in fapDing every
germ of disproportion in point of impro
per encroachments, either on the part of
the governors or governed, attempt to
introduce innovations fubveriive of the li
berty of the press ? But perhaps it may be
said, my apprehensions are groundless:
that the press is as free as it has been since
ill revolution j which is certainly the cafe
so tar as it relates to inserting any pioduc
tion which may be conveyed to the printer
for that purpofc* But what will it avail
us, if from the tax which has been laid on
newspapers, the poorer fort of people have
it not in their power t<» read them ? If
we intend by the liberty of the press to
ere£t a barrier againlt the tyrannical usur
pations of those in whom we have veiled
power by representing their conduct in a
fair point of view before the awful tribu
nal of their conflituents ; surely the more
generally such information is dilfeminated,
the nearer do we approach to the object at
which we aim : Put if by this inlidious
tax, tlu'fource of this attempt is checked,
we are certainly as unfortunately lituated,
as if the pi cfs had been guaranteed to
Congress by the constitution. Perhaps it
will be urgrd, that as the tax is inconsider
able, it w ill prevent but few people from
taking the papers : to which I answer,
that if Coigrefs hive a light to lava tax
ot even one ..ent. they may extend it to
one t.'ioufand dollars : and surely it never
will be plead in exculpation of a crime,
that there was not much of it—Again, it
gives thou a decided influence over the
printers, as an increase of the tax would
lelfen the number of fubferibers, and we
all know from v oful experience, that in
terelt in this country has proven itfelf to
be a match for integrity.
CATO.
* Not univtrfally true, however. It is
well biown that a Jncakirg rejpett for trea
suries and treajury men has with J owe pro
ved the abortion-do/e of many apiece that
ought, upon the principles of impartiality,
to have J'een the light.
To the EDITOR of the NATIONAL
GAZETTE.
S I R,
T HAVF. lately heard much refpefting the
Cen'' s of the United States, and have
obtained I'ome with difficulty, having called
five times at the narional bank, and found
" no cents to day."
The value of these mud increase in gen
eral eflimation. when it is known that they
cost the United States fix pence a piece,
calculating the salaries of the public and
private officers engaged in their manufac
iure. However, there are many causes to
which we may attribute their scarcity—
Connoifl'eurs have been deputed from dif
ferent antiquarian societies in Europe to
collect all the variety of coins iflued by this
flourifliing country ; and as it is necefi'ary
to give good impreflions, the frequent
breaking of the dies must be thus account
ed for, and not attributed to the imperfett
knowledge of the artists engaged in the
work. Another cause of the coijis being
in demand, we have lately ascertained to
arifefrom speculation for the French, who
will at any price buy the head of Liberty
engraved so freely and unconfined. It re
presents natural liberty. \\ hich is the 1110 ft
perse.3—the face is consequently favape,
the hair like wire, or strong Indian hair
never combed, defp ling the ea(y wave of
ringlets as too foppifh tor republicanism.
A chain is 011 the reverse, (hewing clearly
that American liberty is the reverje as jia
very. The fmallnefnof the coin may be
considered in more advantageous lights
one.
id. It expends less copper, and confe
quentlv gives less encouragement to the
miners of England, our political enemies.
2clly. The coin is more portable,and w ill
not neceflitate us to call so loon for silver
and gold coins :
And the workmanship is foexquifite that j
no tvio in engraving will evei think of is
suing counterfeits, through the temptation
of (gaining by the copper ; for though ihe
coins are sO various that i)o pe.rfoil c:»n If id
two alike, yet tile fame gre.it matterly
touches at' the artiit, have given them a
stamp of originality, that can never beper
feitly imitated ; and we hear it is in con
templation to cut a die in diamond, which
will never futfer injury ; but if none can
befound in our own mountains, the Recent
lately presented by the French to the Kni
peror of the Turks, will be purchased by
our AmbalTudor for the pur pole.
I am, Sir, your moll obedient,
And molt humble servant!
A FREE MAN.
April J, [793.
FRENCH NATIONAL CONVENTION.
ThursjAy, January 17.
The Appeal Nominal ou the question,
what puni[iimeut (hall lit: inflated upon
Louis Capet ? continued through the whole
of yelterday, aud the preceding night, eacli
member alligning reasons for his opinion.
The following are the moll remarkable :
Delligoyte—" I will not enter into any
compolition with tyrants. I vote for death
and ipeedy execution of the sentence.''
Garran de Coulon—" 1 am of opinion
we cannot exercise, at the fame time, the
functions of Accufcrs, Judges, and Jury.
The people did not delegate to us th* right
of pronouncing without their ratification.
I conlider that to be tyranny, when men
place thcmfelves above that ever sacred
law, the sovereignty of the people. I re
fpecl the opinions of those who entertain
sentiments different from mine, but I can
not adopt them."
Chabot—" I vote for death, because
Louis has been a tyrant ; because he is Hill
one, because he may again become so."
Robertfpierre—" Because you havee
ftablifhed youi selves the judges of Louis,
without the usual forms, are you less his
judges } You cannot separate your quality
of judge from that of legillator. These
two qualities are indivilible. You have
acknowledged the crimes of the tyrant.
It is your duty to punish them. No con
federation ihould make you hclitate re
fpefling the punWhment reserved for the
greatest criminal that ever exilted. 1 vote
for the punilhment of death."
Danton—" I am not one of those states
men who know not how to determine but
from political principles. lam a republi
can,anil do not hclitate refpcflingtbe choice
of that puniflmient reserved for Louis the
last. You ought to (tiike terroi into ty
rants by an inllexiblity of character. I vote
for the punilhment of death."
Robert—" 1 vote for death ; and if any
regret remains with me, it is, that my com
petence does not extend to all tyrants. 1
would condemn them all to death."
Barrere—" The tree of liberty does not
fiourifli, unless inoiltencd with the blood
of kings. I vote for death."
ECALITE—" Those w ho have made,
or may make attempts againlt the fove
reignt* of the people Oeferve death. I
vote for death."
Condorcet—" I declare that no circum
stance except theprefent, could inducc me
to pronounce sentence of death againlt any
one. 1 requelt, that the feverelt pir.iiih
ment, next to death, may be inflated 011
Louis; but in cafc death (hall be pro
nounced against him, I requelt that the po
litical eonlideration presented by Malche,
viz. ' Whether the punilliment ought to be
accelerated or retarded ought to be dif
culTed."
Lananal — " A republican is a man of few
words. The motives of my opinion nre
here, [laying his hand upon his heart] I
vote for death."
Barbaroux—" I vote for the death of
the tyrant. In a few moments I fliall vote
for the expullion of his family."
Villette—'• I vote for the confinement
of Louis as an holtage of peace. He is o
verturned amidst the ruins of the throne,
and will now close up every avenue of it."
Anarcarfis Cloots—" In the name of
the human race, I vote for the death ot
Louis."
Thomas Paine —" I vote for the provi
lional confinement of Louis, aud for his ex
pulsion after the war."
BrilTot —" lam of opinion, that the only
way of avoiding the dangers which threa
ten us, is to pronounce the punilhment of
death againfl Louis, and defer his execu
tion to the moment when the people shall
have fanftioned the coultilution which we
fliall present them."
The Prelident announced, that he vas
going to proclaim the result of the Appeal
nominal. The molt; profound silence pre
vailed for fevcral minutes. He laid,
•' The Aflembly is composed of seven
hundred and forty-five members—one of
these is dead, fix indif'pufed, two ablent
without cause, and censured in the minutes
conformable to the decree, eleven abfeut
upon commiflions, and four who do not
vote, making in all twenty-three member
who have given no opinion. The number
of votes is thus reduced to seven hundred
and twenty. In order that there may bi
a majority, it is nectflary that there should
bean union of 361 fultV: ger. Twenty
one numbers have voted for djath, wits
the demand ot .1 difcolium on tlie period of
his execution ; one has voted for death,
with the reserve of its commutation or de
lay ; two for death, not to be carried into
execution till peace, 11 ilefi ill cafe ofinva
lion oftheFrenchte: ritory, to beinflated ill
hours after tlie invalioi; two for chains:
31 w for imprifoqmeiit and banilhment; and
366 for death.
Th; Prelident then lowering the tone of
his voice, amidtt the molt awful iilence,
proclaimed the following sentence :
'• I declare. thai, in the rtame of the
Convention, that the punijhment which it
pronounces againll Louis Capet. is
DEATH."
January 2 1.
On Friday morning,the Dauphin flo!e
down (tairs—the sentry at the door *<kecl
him where i e was going—" into the Ifreet
replied the infant prince, through all Pa
ris to beg of the people not to lei 11 my dear
papa." One of the guards carried him to
the king ; when he heard u hat the child
had Hi id, he burlt into tears, and pressed
him to his bof'om.
The king took leave of the queen and
his infant son and daughter, at five o'clock
yesterday afternoon. The queen was in a
raving delirium.
Defeze, the king's connfel, is dying with
a broken heart.
M. Malefherbes is the man who announ
ced the king his fate in these words : —
uMy prince I know you are courage
ous, but I cannot forbear telling you, sen
tence has been parted."
" Well then (said the devoted king) so
much rhe better, my resolution is already
tormed. I behold, without terror, my lalt
hour approaching : and I (hall layiny liead
011 the block without any uneafmefs ; what
will perhaps furprifeyau more, is, that my
wile and filter think on this fubieft exattlv
as I do." '
Maletherbes fell at his feet and said ; " I
will never leave you, my good prince, I
would die for you."—He was torn from
the royal victim by a municipal flitellite,
who tolil him, lie had orders from the
council that he Ihould quit the temple.
Malelherbcs departed, and fainted before
the door. He was cariied home, and is
much indisposed.
His ma jetty had embraced him, taking a
ring ot; his finger and (jiving it to him, fay
in£ "Remember me!"
January 22.
THE EXECUTION.
Conformably to the arrangements made
by the executive council, Louis was yes
terday put to death at the Place tie la Re
volution, heretofore Place de Lo: is XV.
Twenty five citizens, of known princi
ples, well armed,acquainted v\itli t!.emanu
el exercise, and having each hxteen rounds
ot (hot, were chosen from each fettion to
form & guard of 1200 men, who accompa
nied the unfortunate monarch to the place
of execution.
Strong detachments from the different
legions were polled in the itreets through
which the royal prjfoner was to pass, and
also in all the avenues leading to the Place
de la Revolution, topi event any confufion.
and each fe&ion had a body in reserve,
ready to move at a moment's notice, to
maintain pub.ic order, Ihould any attempts
have been made to disturb it.
Cannon were also distributed in every
quarter w here it was thought they could be
any way serviceable, had events made it
■ leceffary to have employed them: for
even to the lall moment the sanguinary
taction, who pronounced the death of the
unfortunate monarch, manifefled symp
toms of fear that some attempt might be
Blade to rescue him.
Between eight and nine o'clock in the
morning Louis proceeded tiom his apart
ments in the temple, and cot into the May
or's carriage, who accompanied him, as
did also M. h.dgworth or de Fermon, an
Irith prietl, whom he requested might at
tend him. Louis was dretied in a brown
greatcoat, white wuiftcoat, black bree
ches and liockings ; his hair was drcfied.
The procefl.on, commanded by Mare
fchal Santerre, proceeded along the Bou
levards to the place (le la Revolution.—
One hundred Gendarmes on horseback
formed an advanced guard to the procef
fioii. The rear guard was composed of
one hundred national guards from the
military school. Various reserves of ca
valry lined the procefliou and patroled the
outskirts of the city.
The unfortunate monarch arrived at
the foot of the fcaffold at twenty minutes
part ten. He mounted the fcaffold with
firmnefc and dignity—appeared desirous to
ddrefs the people, but even this was deni
ed him—d.ums and trumpets gave the
Signal, and at twenty two minutes part ten
his head w as fevered from his body.
The place de la Revolution was so
strongly guarded by troops, that no person
was flittered to pais after tie king had en
tered it—thofi, lumeic., who had previ
oullv entered and near enough to the
fcaffold notV'ithf!auilin<' the indecent noise
of the drums and tn-mpets, heard him
plainly pronounce these words— 11 Citizens
1 forj \ ir.y e;:tc,ivs, u;.u 1 die innocent !A :t iib-d'.i'h, the neireft fpeftators |
jl: . tf ,i t:n;> !; ■-ivin what of his hair had
b. .1 q»t oil" by the itroke of the gulotine !
and f. 'i 'r. iis were so 1 nh-tllu.i.l as to
,1 it i ha.ulkerchiefs in his biood which
th j y t:r wards carrjred about trying,
" 3eh01.l the blood of i tyrant !"
Wnen tlie executioner (hewed his head to
the pe > >i , '• ii-'S of " Vive la nation ! Vint
la Rip Mi> were heard oil all lides, and
several gr >tips nude use of the following
exprc fiori , "We always -wished well to
him -Many, however, iliewcd emotions I
■of a d ' r 'it nature, but which they were
obi gc'vi to onte il, as much as pollible,
for t : ?ir own perfond fafety.
Hisbody was transported to the pariln
chu'h of ! a M i.KI dene, where it was in
terred, without my intuit being offered to
it, between the persons who loft their
live; during their illuminations on aacouu:
of his marriage, and the Swiss who ieil on
the lothof August.
Louis before his departure from the
temple, delivered lo tiie commiflioners of
the cou : i! general, who were upon the
guard, his latter will ; two copies ot which,
he had written on the 25th of December
laii—
Three thousand livres (uol. sterling}
wire found in his apartments at the teui
p , which were lent to the council general
oi the commons.
: ,e city remained quiet, in gloomy fl
it , through the whole of tne day—in
::u 'ruing, the (hops were fiiut, and 110
\i<> . , was allowed to be in the streets
t:i! '.Ie proceffiou had returned with the
body of Louis.
In the House >f Representatives
or the United States.
Thurjda-j, tie 28 tk of February, 1793.
Conti. tied fro n oitr laji—and couclnded.
ANOTHER motion was then made, and
the question being put, that the house
do agree with the committee of the whole
house, in their disagreement to the fourth
resolution, in the words following :
•' Rejolvsd, That the Secretary of the
Treasury has deviated from the inrtruc
tions given by the Prelident of the United
States, in executing the authorities l'or
making loans, under the acts of the 4th and
12th of August 1790."
it was resolved in the affirmative—Yeas
39— Nays 12.
The yeas and nays being demanded by
one fifth of the members present,
Those who voted in the affirmative, are
Filher Ames,Robert Barnwell, Egbert Ben
fon, Elias Boudinot, Shearjathub Bourns,
Benjamin Bourne, Jonathan Dayton, Tho
mas Fitzlimons, Elbridge Gerry, Nicholas
Oilman, Benjamin Goodhue, James 'tor
don, Chrittopher Greenup, Samuel Griffi 1,
Wiiiiain Barry Grove, Thomas Hartley,
James Hillhoufe. William Hindman, Phi
lip Key, A iron Kitchell, John L iwrence,
Ainafa Learned, Richard Bland Lee,
George Leonard, Samuel Livermore, Fre
derick Augustus Muhlenberg, William
Vans Murray, Nathaniel Nil s Theodore
Sedgwick, Jeremir.h Smith, lfracl Smith,
William Smith, John Steele, Samuel S'.er
ret, Jonathan Sturges, George Thatcher,
Thomas Tuder Tucker, Artemas Ward,
and Hugh Williainfon.
Those who voted in the negative, are,
John Baptist Albe, Abraham Baldwin, Wil
liam Findley, Wiiiiain B. Giles, Andrew
Gregg, Nathaniel Macon, James Madison,
John Francis Mercer, Andrew Moore,
Alexander D. Orr, John Page, and Jofiah
Parker.
Another motion was then made, and the
queilion being put, That the house do a
gree with the committee of the whole
house, in their disagreement to the fifth
resolution, in the words following :
" Resolved, That the Secretary of the
Treasury has omitted to discharge an es
sential duty of his office, in failing to give
Gongrefo oificial information, in due time,
of the monies drawn by him, from Europe,
into t'le United States; which drawing
commenced December 1790, and continued
till January 1793. and of the causes of ma
king such drafts."
It was resolved in the affirmative—Yeas
33— Nays 15.
The yeas and nays being demanded by
one fifth of the members present,
Those who voted in the affirmative, are,
Fiflier Ames, Robertßanuvell, Egbert Ben
fon, Elias Boudinot, Shearj ilhub Bourne,
Benjamin Bourne, Jonathan Dayton, Tho
mas Fitzlimons, Elbridge Gerry, Nicholas
Gilman, Benjamin Goodhue, James Gor
don, Thomas Hartley, James Hillhoufe,
William Hindman, Philip Key, Aaron Kit
chell, John Lawrance, Amafa Learned,
George Leonard, Samuel Livermore Fre
derick August its Muhlenberg, William
Vans Murray, Theodore Sedgwick. Jere
miah Smith, William Smith, John Steele,
Samuel Sterrett, Jonathan Sturges, George
Thatcher, Thomas Tuder Tucker, Arte
inas Ward and Hugh Williainfon.
Those who voted in the negative, are
John Baptist Alhe, Abraham Baldwin, Wil
liam Findley, William B. Giles, Samuel
Griffin, William Barry Grove, Richard
Bland Lee, Nathaniel Macon, James Mad
ifon, John Francis Mercer, Andrew Moore,
Nathaniel Niles, John Joiiah Par
ker, and Israel Smith.
Another motion was then made, and the
question being put, that the house do agree
with tne committee ot the whole houle, in
tiieir disagreement to the lixth reloiution,
in the words following :
" Rejoined, That the Secretary of the
Treasury, has, without the inftrutVions o)
the Preiident of the United States, drawn
more monies, borrowed in Holland, into
the United States, than the Prefideut ol
ti. United States was authorized to draw,
under the act of the 12th of August 1790,
which act appropriated two millions ot dol
larsonly, when borrow ed, to thepurchafe ol
the public debt; and that he has omitted
to d.fcharge an essential duty of his office,
in failing to give oiEcial information to the
Cdmmdlioners for purchaling the public
debt, of tiie various funis drawn, from
lime to time, suggested by him, to have been
intended for the parchafe of the public
debt. "
It was resolved in the affirmative —Yeas
33— Nays 8.
The yeas and nays being demanded by
one fifth of the members present,
Those who voted in the affirmative, are
Fisher A rues, Robert Barn well, Egbert Ben
fon Elias Boudinot, Shearjathub Bourne,
Benjamin Bourne, Jonathan Dayton, Tho
mas Fitzlimons, Elbridge Gerry, Nicholas
Gilman, Benjamin Goodhue, James Gor
don, William Barry Grove. Thomas Hart
ley, James Hillhoufe, William Hindman,
Aaron Kitchell, John Lawrance, Amafa
Learned, George Leonard, Samuel Liver
more, Frederick Augustus Muhlenberg,
Nathaniel Niles, Theodore Sedgwick, Je
remiah Smith, William Smith, John Steele,
Samuel Sterrett. Jonathan Stui ges, George
Thatcher, Thomas Tuder Tucker, Arte
mas Ward and Hut'h Williamfon.
Those who voted in the negative, are
John Baptist A the, Abraham Baldwin, Wil
liam Findley, William B. Giles, Nathaniel
Macon, James Madison, John Francis Mer
cer and Joiiah Parker.
Another motion was then made, and the
question being put, that the house do agree
with the committee of the whole house,
in their disagreement to the seventh reso
lution. in the words following :
" Resolved, That the Secretary of the
Trealury did not consult the public inte
re(t, in negociating a loan with the Bank
of the United States, and drawing there
from four hundred thousand dollars, at five
per centum per annum, when a greater
sum ol public money wasdepoiited in va
rious banks, at the refpe. ive periods of
making the refpeftive drafts."
It was resolved in the affirmative—Yeas
33— Nays 8.
she yeas and nays being demanded by
one fifth of the members present,
Those who voted in the affirmative, are
Fisher Ames, R ibertßarnwell, Egbert Ben
son, Elias Boudinot, She .rjnfliub Bourne
Benjamin Bourne. Jonathan Dayton, Tho
mas Fitr'.imon , Elbridge < erry, Nicholas
Gilman, 'enjamin Goodhue, James Gor
don, William Barry Grove, Thomas Hart
ley, Jajnes Hillhoufe, William Hindman,
Aaron Kitchell. John Lawrance, Amafa
Learned, George Leouard, Samuel Liver
more, Frederick Augustus Muhlenberg,
Nathaniel Niles, Theodore Sedgwick. Je
remiah Smith, William Sin ' h, John Steele,
Samuel Sterrett, Jonathan Sturges, George
Thatcher, Thomas Tuder Tucker, Arte
mas Ward and Hugh Williamfon.
Those who voted in the negative, are
John Baptist Afhe, Abraham Baldwin, Wil
liam Findley, William B- Giles. Nathani !
Macon, James Madison, John Francis Mer
cer, and Joiiah Parker.
Another motion was then made, and the
question being put, that the house do agree
with the committee ot the whole house, in
their disagreement to the eighth refolu
tion, in the words following :
" Resolved, That the Stcreta'-y of the
Treasury has been guilty of an indecorum
to this house, in undertaking to judge of
its motives in calling for information,
which was demandable of him, from the
constitution of his office, and in failing to
give all the necellary information within
his knowledge, relatively to theJubjecis of
reference madeto him, of the 19th of Janu
ary 1792, and of the 22d of November
1792, during the present fellion."
It was resolved in tiie affirmative—Yeas
34 —Nays 7.
The yeas and nays being demanded by
one fifth of the members present,
Those who voted in the affirmative, are
Filher Ames, Robert Barnwell, Egbert Ben -
son, Elias Boudinot, Shearjalhub Bourne,
Benjamin Bourne, Jonathan Dayton, Wil
liam Findley. Thomas Fitzfimons, Elbridge
Gerry, Nicholas Gilman, Benjamin Good
hue James Gordon, Thomas Hartly, James
Hillhoufe, William Hindman, Aaron Kit
chell, John Lawrance, Amafa Learned,
George Leonard, Samuel Livermore, Fre
derick Augustus Muhlenberg, Nathaniel
Niles, joiiah Parker, Theodore Sedgwick,
Jeremiah Smith, William Smith, John
Steele, Samuel Sterrett, Jonathan Sturges,
George Thatcher, Thomas Tuder Tucker,
Artemas Ward and Hugh Williamfon.
Those who voted in the negative, are
John Baptist A(he, Abraham Baldwin, Wil
iiamß- Giles, William Barry Grove, Rich
aril Bland Lee, Nathaniel Macon and
James Maclifb'u.
Extract from the Journal,
JOHN BECKLEY, Clerk.
PHILADELPHIA.
April 6.
Yelterday arrived here the ship John
3ulkley, from Lilbon, which port {he left
the 24th of February—and Brig Kitty that
failed from St. Enftatius, the 20th ot
March. By these vessels we have accounts
that the queen of France was beheaded on
the twelfth of February ; that France had
declared war againit England, Spain, and
several other powers; and that a general
embargo had taken place in England on
all vessels outward bound.—An account
from Oporto to New-York, mentions war
having been declared by Portugal againit
France on the twenty-lixth of February.
A committee of the Pennsylvania house
of representatives have presented a number
of resolutions to the consideration of the
houffe, tending to the impeachment of John
Nicholfon, the comptroller general of this
commonwealth, ar.d directing the attorney
general of this Hate to inflitute a suit a
gainlt said John Nicholfon, Esq. to recover
lor the life of the commonwealth, the a
inottnc of the new loan certificates, which
have been redeemed and paid at the trea
sury of this Date. The total amount of the
new loan certificate: redeemed by the slate
at their nominal value, interest included,
amounts to 63,0-5 dollars and 37 cents,
60220 dollars of which were fubferibed in
the name, and of course appear to be the
property of John Nicholfon. The report
011 this subject was directed to be primed,
and made one of the orders of the day lor
yelterday.
M. Blanchard is making preparations for
a 46th aerial flight from this city. It is
said, the place from which he is to ascend
will be fpacions, and such as may conveni
ently accommodate at moderate prices all
rtiofe who would wilh to witness the pro
ofs of filling, ar.d ascent of the balloon.
F-ifteen per centum per annum is the a-,
verage profit on well cult ivated vine yirds.
Mr. Lf. Gaux, by a Iteady attention to
the culture of the vine in this country'for
the lalt 7 years, has ascertained, beyond all
doubt, that thac branch of liulbandry will
prove profitable among us. He has tried
several fptcies of fbreipn vines here, & lias
found atl, by certafrr variations in the mode
of culture, to produce as fine fruit, in
deed rather more fu culent, than what is
produced from the fame plants in Europe.
In conference of so high an inteiilt as
above mentioned, Mr. Le Ganx's plan
will not only prove highly beneficial to the
country at large, but profitable to those
concerned in the bulineis.
Thomas Claiborne is chosen member of
the House of Representatives of the United
States from the fttate Virginia. There is
an other dillricl from which no return is
yet received.
Mr'. Paine (in effigy) has met with every
token of contempt and hatred from the
too.s of royalty and the court, 111 several
towns of t.ngiand, particularly in Liver
pool, a place that has long been famous, or
r ither infamous for the hatred of its inha
liiL.uits to the Rights of Man, as particu
larly evidenced by its being the principal
port in England for owning and fitting out
Guinea fliips, employed in the infernal
traffic of human fitfh. —It mult be a con
folatlon to the friends of liberty, that al
tho' the i'lfeds of a corrupted court can
burn the tffigy, it is beyond their power to
burn the political principles of Mr. Paine,
which are Ipreading rapidly thro' Europe,
a id mult one day conf.'itute its uni'verfal
creed.
On the 24th of January, and inllantly
upon the news arriving ot the decapita
tion ot Louis the XVlth, M. Chauvelin,
French Aniballador at London, received
the following note from the EngliihSecre
tary of ffate.
" 1 am charged to notify to you. Sir,
that the character with which you have
been inverted at this court, and the f mixti
ons of which have been so long suspended,
being now terminated, by the fatal death
of his molt Christian Majelty, you have
no more any public character here.
The King can 110 longer, after such an
event, permit your relidcnce here. His
Majelty has thought fit to order, that you
should retire from this kingdom within the
term of eight days ; and I herewith trans
mit to you a copy of the Order, which his
Majelty, in Privy Council, has ordered to
this effe£t.
I fend you a paflport for you and your
suite ; and I shall not fail to take all the
other neceilary Heps, in order that you may
return to France, with all the attentions
which are due to the character of Minilter
Plenipotentiary from his Molt Christian
Majeitv, which you have excrcifed at this
Court."
The following is a copy of the king of En
gland's mell'age to the House of Com
mons osi the 28th of January.
"His majesty has given direffions f«r
laying before the House of Commons, to
pics of several paper* received troni M.
Chauveiin,* Jule ininiiter plenipotentiary
fropi the nio/t.cliriftiaii king, by his majes
ty's feeret.iry of Slate, and of the anfwt-rs
thereto, and a copy of an order made by
his majeily in council, transmitted to the
laid Mr. Cliauvelin in consequence of the
account of the atricocious act recently per
petrated at Paris.
In theprefent situation of affairs, his ma
jelly thinks it indispensably npccflary to
make a further augmentation Of his fort
es by lea and land, and reiiesonthe known
affection and zeal of the House of Com
mons to enable him to take the inoft effec
tual meafnres. in the present important
conjuncture, for maiiitainii g the fectiritv
and rights of his own dominions, for im -
porting his allies, and for oppoling view s of
uggrandizment and ambition on the part of
France, which would be at all times dan
gerous to the general interell of Europe,
but more peculiarly so when connected
with the propagation of principles which
lead to the violation of cl.e moil faciei!
duties, and are utterly (u.bverli i of the;
peace and order of civil societies."
The brig Ann, arriveel at Baltimore oil
the second instant, from Lilbon (which
place (lie left on the 24th of February)
brought several letters, all of which men
tion war to have been declared by France
against Great-Britain, and several other
powers that had not acknowleel&ed her in
dependence as a republic.
The members chosen in the next House
of Representatives, from South-Carolina,
are as follow: William Smith, Charleltou
diftrift. Alexander Gillon, Beaufort and
Orangeburgh, Lemuel Benton. Cheraw and
Georgetown, fUchardWinn.
Hunter, Ninety Six, Andrew Piikem,
Walhington and Pinckney.
William Goforth, Esq. of Cincinnati
(western territory) in a letter dated from,
that place, Jan. 8, gives a circumstantial
narrative of the fate of Major Trueman,
Col. Harden, and others who were sent
lall year on embaflies, and with meiTages to
certain Indian towns, relative to a treaty
of peace with the United States. This
narrative was taken from the accounts giv
en by William Smallv, who attended Ma
jor Trueman, anil returned by way of
Detroit to Columbia, in Pennsylvania, the
place of his relidence. It appears from
this narrative that major Trueman, his
waiter, and Srnally fell in with three Indi -
ans on their way to the Mauniee towns,
the two former of whom w ere treacher
ously murdered hj' the Indians while in
theircompany, andto all appearance friend
ly. It further appears that the horses, anil
the other property major Trueman had
with him, was the cause of his being mur
dered. Smally se as informed, while among
the Indians, that Mefli's. Joseph Cerrard,
Isaac Freeman, and a Mr. Lavara falfo on
an embassy to the Manmee towns] were
killed by a final! party of the favnjres five
or fix days journey from Fort Walhington.
While Mr. Smally wis at the town of
Glaize, several articles were brought in,
the property of Col. Harden and his com
panion Mr. Flinn, who had been sent 011
an embaflv to the Indian nat ons, and were
on their way to the Sandulki towns when
killed. Col. Harden had fallen in with an
Indian hunting party, when, upon confu
tation, it was agreed by them (on» excep-
kill Col. Harilen and Hnn, who
were tomahawked accordingly—The opi
nion of Mr. bmally is that the Indians are
generally for war. and that the rep'-rt
ampng them is, that at their next battle
they expect to have eight thonfand men,
rho' he queltions their being able to rai r e
more than sor 6,000. He adds, that the
Britilh are not at this time a£tive to allift
the Indians in the present war wi'h the
United Slates ; but merely fulfilling the
agreements and flipul-itions entered into
with them at the clcfe of the American
war.
[From a .Crrrejj 01 dent. ]
It is remarkable that in the prosecution
of Mr. Paine, for libellous writii gs, before
Lord Keuyon, and a special jury held at
Guildhall, in London, that the \ ice-j've
lietent of the United States is expressly
named by the Attorney General, employee!
on that infamous occasion, as the writer of
the papers that appeareci about two ye:,r3
ago in Bolton under the fignatnre of }>u bit
cola. Mr. Attorney General, on the fame
occasion, not only read several paragraphs
from that work, tending to criminate Mr
Paine, but also the contents of a letter
which "he had received from the second
person in America (Mr. Adams" " Having
had the honor of his (Mr. Adams' ac
quaintance (Taid the Attorney General)!
wrote to him relative to the prosecution
and in answer I was informed, that it w :;s.
the wish of Thomas Paine to convene the
people of Great-Britain, who had neither
government nor conjlitution, for the pur
pose of prevailing upon them to adopt a
confiitution limilar to that of France, and
to establish a government proceeding, di
rectly from the fdvereignty ol the p c < pie.
Mr. Paine had aifo called on the citizens
of America, to rally round bin l , in order
to afford aliiftafice to Great-'-'M- ;ii, in the
completion of a 1 evolution," ! ! 'Mr. BRI'SOfs Speech in the. National
/Iffembly of France, on siugufl 8, 1792
in fvfport of the accufalion of M- de la
Fayette.
(Continued from our last )
MR. La Faycte will fay that he had
concerted with Mai thai Luckner
But iiad he conccrtcd alio wi h the Au
itrian General? H d he concerted with
fortune ? Had he her in his hands, at his
ordeis ? No, gentlemen ; he might be at
tacked ; he •was attacked in his absence.
Fortune has favoured our arms ; it might
have been othei wife, at Irall if it were not
Jli/ulntedio the contrary. In fact, gentle
men, thejauut of Mr. La Fayette was very
well worth a victory to the Auflrians.
But, laying a fide hypothesis, I said the
Aullrians were not tuperior in numbers;
and why then this everlalling maftion ? It
is a glaring crime. Either the Auflriana
were fnperior, or they were not ; and to
leave his army was to betray the state. It
appears by the account of Mr. Bureau x-
Pufy, that Mr La F*yette was in the
firft mentioned cafe ; for he allows that
1 he camp of Tenieres was a dangerous po
rtion ; he agrees that there were bu' eigh
teen thousand men, when the catr.p was
capab'e of containing fifty thousand, and
when there was in front a body of twenty
live thousand men. He owns that he was
ignorant of all the movements and projefls
of the enemy. He mull then have been
in contlaut ?pprthenfion of an attack ; and
lie exposed his army by absenting himfelf
from it at luch a critical jnndVure.
Again, gen lemen, if this absence had
had for its obje£l the service of his army,
Mi. DumeLrd has told you, it was to press
the activity of the Minillers ; but, gentle
men, this anlwer is a mere pleasantry. Is
it ufua, o solicit the adtivity ot one's own
creature 3, elpecially when they have been
Itallied by ourfclvcs ? He has told you that
it was to demand military (lores ; but does
not Mr. La Fayette who is fnrrounded
•with a croud of aids de camp, know how
10 employ them ex ept in hawking peti
lions up and down in the different camps,
in intriguing at court an . in the city .'
Could he not spare one of them to hail en
the (lores? It is adding cowardice to cri
m;nali \, and impudence to both, to dif
j;uife the b fenefs ot his motives bv sub
terfuges like these. His journey to Paris
rould have no other object hue that of in-
Irigue ; it was 1.1 fadl peifc<iil> ridicu'on.;
fir t e came to make a complaint that had
idreaiiy been made, to demand a profecu
tion ihat was car lying on'; and, in fuppo
(ing that the law had permitted his peti
tion, tTe interest of the Hate, of his irmy,
commanded him either to fend it by the
prft or to charge some o e nith it.
I do not here speak of his quitting hit
sr.l y without leave. Mr. Dumolard has
not dared to affirm that he had one ; but
I luppofe the fatt true : I tuppofe it with
smother member who has deserted his pod
in the moment of danger : I suppose him
to have had an unlimited 1; ve : however,
lie ought not to have made use of it, ex
cept in the moll urgent circumilances.
To abuse it by ablenting hiinfelf, f om mo
tives foreign to the f rvice of his army,
and at a time wh«n that army was in the
moll critical polition, is treason to all in
tents and purposes.
You have been told that there is no law
that sorb ds a general to quit his poll. I
aufwer, that the law of the 30th of Sep
leinber, 1791, SiSt. 2d, slrt 10 th, fays:
" Every olhcer, non-commissioned officer
or soldier, who (hall quit his poll without
the permission of h s commandant, (hail
iuffer a disciplinary punishment by order
of the commandant of the corps to wiiich
1 e belongs ; except (onae aggrava ing cir
cumftances Shall determine tie Auditor to
transfer him to tiie cou t-martial ; and il
fit he transferr.d to this cou t, and found
guilty, he (hall fuffer oeath."—lc surely
will not be pretended that, if the law
(hikes at the funple officers and soldiers,
1 h genera! is to be spa ed ; at leafl if we
do not believe that the guilty ought tc
escape punifi ment, only when his crim> s
are ftich as may produce effects extraotdi
liarily fatal.
I e me to the second offence ; it has
been cl-arly prove ! by the orators w c
l avc gone betoie me. 'l hey have proved
l-y t' e conllitution, that the armed iorce
is ejjential'y obedient ,* that it has no right
J . ile ibcrate, and coi;(equently that Gen
eral La Fayette could not, without be
* The vjorJs of the Conflitution.
coning highly criminal, be die bearer of
a like rtqiic.ll
What dots Mr. Dumolard oppose to
this deinonftration ? He tells you, that
the rcqucll of the army was onlv indivi
dual, and that an individual petition is
not a deliberation.
Does he not blush to attempt the de
fence of one of the f r amcr of the consti
tution by si.cli pitiful fophif i s ?
1 answer Mr Dumolar I by that bun
die of addresses lying on the tab!., which
vcrv Well proves that there have been col
leftive deliberations; I anlwer him by
the petition of Mr. La Fayette itfe'f:
"The outrages of the 20th of June,"
fays he, '■ have every w ere excited alarms,
and roused the indignation of all the good
:itizens, particularly of the army. In
;hat which I command, the whole of the
jfficers, non-commillioned ofTicers and sol.
have but one sentiment*—l have
promifrd to them," adds he, "to express in
dividually the general sentiment." It is
evident then, f;om Mr. La Fayette's own
words, that he was the bearer of the com
mon requefl, of the colledlive request ol
bis army, which, in the terms of the con
Hitution, cannot deliberate. He has then
violated the constitution.
He came alone, fays Mr. Dumolard
Well ! and what of that, gentlemen :
I'he petition that he brought you con
ained the request of all his army. Out
:annot with a word change the nature ol
1 thing. The petition was here collettive.
('though the individuality of it has beer
"o roundly (fined.
He may fay purhaps, that it is as all
ien, and not as general, that he has addref
ed yon. But he will not then fay that
t is the common sentiment of his army
lhat he has expressed. Let h'm chooft
lere : either it was his own individual-re.
tjueft, or ii was that of his whole army
In the firft cafe, he h<s (landered his ar
my, in pretending to be the bearer of thcii
:ommon lequcft ; in the Ltter, he is c>d
pable for having delivered a request p>ohi
bited by the constitution. But who doei
not fee here that the general, not daring
to attack openly the constitution, ha* tri
sd by a fubterfuge to cover his vialatior
t>f the law ? Who does not fee that he ha:
presented himfelf as a citizen 'n order tc
liave a hole to creep o,it at, and that Ik
bas prefenicd the requ ft of the whole ar
my to intimidate the National AfTembly
In short, who does not fee in this farce, ii
which the legiflalive body and the c<Ttfti
tution are so impudently iniulted, an ag
gravation of his crimes
Yes, gentlemen, it is very possible thai
in t e firft moments of the operation of <
constitution, the principles of which arc
not familiar ; when every thing temjs tc
provoke the execution of the laws ol
which the provisions are numerous and
complicated , it is very pofiible to violatt
the confti ulion without knowing it, anc
to appear culpable without being so. Il
is, for example, very natural to believe,
that the non commjjioned officers andfoldler.
from their being petfuaded that they did
no more than fulfil a sacred duty, in tefti
fying their indignation against the event!
of the 20th of June, were ignorant ol
what they did, and that every thing wai
disguised in order to deceive than. lam
therefore very far from regarding all theft
petitions as culpable ; but can there be
any one weak enough to believe, that Mr,
La Fayette, who himfelf assisted in the
revision of the conftiiution, who himfell
so kited with considerable vva'mth the re
ftridive law concerning petitions; who
has himfelf laid down the principle, that
every armed force is ejfential'y obedient: 1
fay, can there be any one weak enough to
believe him ignorant of this famous law,
this well known princ'ple ! he has violated
th :n wilfully. He knew them, fays Mr.
Dumolard, and he has adhered to ttiem ;
for it was to put a Hop to the coll.stive
reqnefts that he came to Paris ; that is tc
fay, that to put a (lop to a colledlive re
quest, he consolidates it with his own, and
presents it hinfelf: that is to fay, that tc
prevent the violation of the law, already
consummated, he gives it his fanftion !
he becomes the organ of it ! thus, doubly
to violate the law is to refpeft it, in the
eyes of Mr Dumolard.
What a cause, great God! must it be
that is reduced for defence to such
puerile sophistry I—The signature of m\
letter of the 16th of June was doubted,
Mr. La Fayette has said you should have
signed it afre(h and ftaiJ a' your camp.—
But the king's life was in danger from the
commotions in the capita':—The Nation
al Affcmbly was there rea('y to protefl
him or pei ifli by his Cde.— The fame fears
were entertained for the National Aflem
tily :—What ! had it then teftified any
such apprehensions ? Did not every day
after the 20th of June bring you fatisfac
tory accounts ? from the 22d was not all
q'liet at Paris, except in the seditious
minds of the ministry and the direflory oj
the Department ? What could alarm you
on the 26th that you (hould intrude on us
your unafked-for and infuhtng protection !
Had you forgot our troops? Could you
doubt that the forty tlioufand national
guards; that the piques whose courage you
had so well proved on the sth and Bth of
October, 1789; that the brave fellows
whom you had seen diflinguillied them
(elves on thole memorable days, would not
form an l'mpregmble rampart round the
person of the king ? Yes, you have calum
niated by your petition, the people, the
national guards, the army and this afTem
bly. This confideiation alone islufficient
to condemn Mr La Fayette, e»en if there
exifled no politive law to that effedl. i r.
Dumolard has denied that there is any
law, which forbids a general or his soldierS
to present petitions. He forgot then the
a ticleofthe conllitution that I have just
quoted. He has forgot then the pofitivt
law ciied by Mr. i-afojree, and which I
Hi all read once more to the National /f
---fembly :—" Every deliberation," fays the
law of the 21 (I of September, 1791, "held
by the nati .nalguards npon affairs of state,
of their department, dillri£t or commune,
except such as are ltgally referred to the
disciplinary councils, shall be considered as
a seditious attempt upon the public liber
ty, a crime against the constitution, f r
which all tho!e who may be active in
forming such afTemblies, or who may pre
side at their deliberations, fliall be respon
sible." This law, gentlemen, so impera
tive for the national guard, ought to be
much more so for the regular forces It
is impoflible to answer this argument;
and it is for that reason, I suppose, that
Mr. Dumolard has not attempted
Here, gentlemen, the attack on the con
stitution is so much the more crminal as
Mr. La Fayette demanded, in the name
of his army, a thing not only unconstitu
tional, but even impoflible : the abolition 0)
the patriotic societies. Mr. Dumolard has
told you, that it was not their abolition
that the general requeftcd, but the fup
pr.ffion of their abuses. This is another
of the cowardly fltifts of the enemies of the
popular societies. Are there not the laws
and the tribunals to putiifh these abuses :
Why not bring the offenders to trial ? It
is because the law would acquit the po
pular societies ; and it is more convenient
to the general and his party to crush them
by a decree. Such, gentlemen, is the real
sense (and Mr. La Fayette will not dare
to deny it to me, who knows his sentiments
on thefubjedt) <f that pafTage in his let
ter where he demands the annihilation ol
the-clubs—And why is he so exasperated
againfl them ? Because they do not fpart
him. He had but one answer to give tc
all his detractors ; —niSory
[jVo be Continued.]
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONi.
March 1793.
D. 11 [Bur. Iter, IVinl. Weather
Tue/day, 26. 7 30. 5 47 N. E. Cloudy.
2 29. 75 <4 S. do, Ra'n.
Wcdnrjaay, 27. 7 29. & 43 i VV. fair
2 20. 9 51 vV.NW Cloudy.
Ttu'/duy, : 30. 15 33 S. VJ. Ftir.
2 3Cy. 22 45 vVN W. j do
Friday, 29. 7 3°* 3 3+ '• " Fair.
2 30- 25 57 da. | J o _
Saturday, 30. 7 30. 2 41 >J. Cloudy.
1 30 it' 58 dn j Fair
Sunday, 31. 7 30.22 42 >]. t.j Cloudy
2 30 2 6 1 'J. W.'Fair.
Monday, I. 7 30.2 c calm j Cioudy.
2 30 3 70 ji. W.lTdir.
TO BE SOL 1),
By JOSEPH CRUKSHANK, in Mar■
krt Jlreet,
LETTERS
Addrefled to the Yeomanry of the Unites
States, {hewing the neceiTit) ofconfining the pub
lic revenue to a fixed proportion ot the net pro
duce of the land, and the bad policy and injustice
L>f every species of ipdiredt taxation and commei
ciii regulations .
BY A FARMER.
Also, may be haa at the lame place, a few co
pies of tie FARMER'S LETTERS, c
'bferva tions on the dangerous scheme of Governot
Duer and Mr, Secretary Hamilton to efiabli/b
National Manufa&ui es.
Feb. 22. 3f. law
~!T Have claims to about two lutndrtd and
f fifty thouland aires or LriND in u.e it n-of
in u !fl"er« :;t fuwta of ihat country,
some of which 1 know 10 be equal to any ; all
( ;f which ] am inclined to cilpofe of, either by
entire sale, or by admitting one, or two part ers,
to whom the agency on the whole will be com
mitted.
One fourth of the contract will be required in
hand, either in cash, merchandile, or luch «.iicis
as mav be converted to o&ive use, the refioue
nav be apportioned in convenient intialments.
The pu» c halers to give iecurity, on the land,
>r oth**rways,as suits them.
Knowing that there is a prejudice against the
<i:ics of land in that (late, which is more general
han 1 am willing to stipulate in (he con
tia&, that a discount, br dedudlion, shall be
made, where any land may be lott, by leaioii of a
Jefcdive title.
Any prrfon inclining to such a purchaf", is re
queued to write to me by pott, in ai.fwer (•
whom, inoie particular information will be given.
II EA R T B AN K S.
Richmond March 2c, 1753. 2* w tf,
W A T C H K S.
ROBERT LESLIE,
CLOCK. an«l WATCH MrtK.ER, No.| 167,
Mai kct-tfreet.
AFTE R retu:niog his sincere thanks to his
friends, and 'he public in general, for the
iieai encouragement he has experienced'fince the
rommencrment of hi* bufir.efs in this cits, takes
his oppor'unity of informing them that, in con
"equence of his intention of going to London in A
>ril next, he is felling off, at very reduced prices,
lis Hock in trade, contorting of a very large and
jeneral afl'irtment 0/ enamelled and plain gold,
j/lt and silver, cant, and cap' aid i-velled
WARRANTED WATCHES,
Mod of which are of the latest importation and
newest fafhion, — Alio a variety of the highest h
mfhed cut ftecl, and gilt, ladies and gentlemen's
Watch Chains, Seals, Keys, and Trinkets, toge
;her with a few Gold Chains, Keys and Seals.
Philad. Jan. 16, 1793. ef.tf.
WAS L O S T,
YES'I ERDAY on the York road, betwixt
Philadelphia and the Crooked Billet, a
BOND, from 11a a c Lewi?, to the fublciiber, for
the sum of two hundred pounds, payable the firft
of April 1793- — Any person finding the fame,
and delivering it to John Mnore, Esq. Jenkn
rnwn, William M'Calh, Abingdon, Thomas
H -ugh., at the Crocked-Billet, or to the fubkri
bci, shall be handsomely rewarded.
JOSEPH HART.
v April a 1793* 3 l
A FEW COPIES OF THE
TRANSACTIONS
Of the Society infiititted in the Stats of
New- York, for the promotion of
AGRICILTI RE, ARTS, and MANU
FACTURES,
May be had at this Office.
[Price HALF a dollar.J
Jan. j.
Philadelphia, "January 12, 1793.
MATHEW CAREY
Refpeclftilly informs the Citizens of the
United States, that the Mapst'or his
intended edition of"
Guthrie's Geography
IMPROVED,
Are now engraving—ind as soon as a fuflicient
number of them are finiflied, to secure a regular
supply dui.ng the publication,which will pioba
bly be early next Spring, the work will be put
to press.
He returns his acknowledgments to the very
refpeflab e number 01 fublci who havecome
forward thus earl\ to patronize this arduous un
dertaking. He a flu res them and the public in
general, that nopains or expt nee {hall be (pared in
the execution of the work.
'Terms cf tie Jf'crh :
I. IT fliall be puolflied in weekly num
bers, each containing three sheets, or twenty-four
pages, of Utter press, in quarto, printed with new
types on fine paper.
il. In-the course of the work will be delivered
about thirty large maps, of the fame lize as those
in the European editions, viz. moll of them sheet
maps on port paper.
Hefdes the maps in the British Edition,
tbis work ivi I contain r.\nt or ten American States
Maps,
111. The price of each number will be a quar
er dollar, to be paid on delivery.
No advance required.
IV. Su'ofcribrrs who difjpprove of the work,
>n the publication of the three firft numbers, are
r o be at liberty to return then), and ihall have
;heir money re, a J.
V. The subscribers' names fliall be prefixed as
matrons of the undertaking.
* # * Subscriptions received in Philadelphia by
he intended publiiher ; in New-York, by all the
lookiellers j in New Haven, by M . Beers : ir
Hartford, bv Mr. Patten j in B.'fton, by MeP
fbomas and Andrews, and bv Mr. Weft j i;
Baltimore, by Mr. R ce ; in Richmond, by l.*t.
1. Carey ; in Charleston, bv Mr, W P. Young,
md by fu idry other persons throughout the Uui
ed States. t.f. la.w.
For faie> at the printing office, a fenv copies
if the fir Q vonim: of the National Gazette.
PRINTED BY
G HI LDS and SWAINE,
\ t their orrice no. 219, hkh-sihui,
NEAR FIFTH STRIET,
fUILAUtLfHIAi