Nums. 48 of Vol. ll.] SATURDAY, April 13, 1793-
Additional Report of the Secretary of the
Trcajury, relative to the Loans negotia
ted under the Acts of the tfh and 12th of
August, 1790.
[Continued from our lafl, and concluded.]
tT may be obje£led, that the rule laid
•* down has been on several occasions ex
ceeded. How this has happened at cer
tain periods has been explained. But there
is a view of the fubjefl which will throw
further light upon it.
The sums which appear on hand at the
end of any quarter are always larger on a
retrofpeHive than on a previous view. This
proceeds from the following cause.
The judgment to be formed beforehand
of the funis which will be within
any future period, mud of ne< e'iity be re
gulated by the returns in pofleflion of the
treasury, at the time the examination if
made. As these come forward with nio c
or less punctuality, that judgement will b?
more or less accurate ; !>w tlv- :;|>p .1'
ance on the returns \vill always be fliort o!
the fa£t ; because a certain number of re
turns, at any period of examination, will
neceflarily be deficient. What does not
appear must of course be eflentially ex
cluded from the calculation ot the receipt;
to be expefled within any near p.nod.
Because the extent of the funis which ma\
liave accrued, beyond those (hewn by the
returns in hand is unknown, and it is lliil
more uncertain in what months the pay
ments of them mayfall—and the combi
nations of the treasury, asto the means ol
fulfilling the demands upon it, ought to
proceed as little as poflible upon conjec
tures and uncertainties.
Monthly abdrafts of the bonds taken at
each port, are the documents which serve
to inform the treasury of the progress ol
the receipts upon the duties of imports.
From these a general abltraft is made up
once a inon 1 h at the treasury, for the in
formation of the head of the department,
(hewing the amount payable ui each month.
But very conliderable differences appear
from one month to another. The State
ment C, will serve as an illustration.
It contains a comparison of the funis
shewn by two successive abdraits, one ol
the 7th of November, the other of the 7tl;
of December lad, for .1 term of ten
months, distributed into monthly ftibdivi
fions. The aggregate difference upon the
whole term between the two abdratls is
495,308 dollars and 73 cents: upon twe
months, beginning with November ant
ending with December, it is 151,789 dol
lars and 40 cents ; upon a quarter begin
ning with January, and ending with March
it is 174,471 dollars and 66 cents; upon :
fubfeqnent quarter it is 81,055 dollars anc
81 cents ; upon a dill subsequent quartei
it is 87,991 dollars and 86 cents.
Hence it is evident, that an arrangement
founded upon the abstract of the o.
November, wouid fuppefe a receipt durinj
any part of the time embraced by it, eve*
the mill proximate, conliderably less thai
would appear by the abdratt only oik
month later : and it mud always happen
from thistircumftance, that the actual re l
ceipts, while ptintluality is preserved, wil
exceed the anticipations of them, and thai
greater balances will be found to cxift a
any piven period than could have been be
forehand fafely calculated or aaed upon.
This circumstance, duly confide red, wil
be a further and a powerful judication o]
the condnot pursued generally, in relatior
to the monies from time to time kept 01
hand, and particularly with regard u
the loans of the bank, low as the (late ol
the treasury appears to hpve been 011 a re
trofpe&ive view, when the monies upor
those loans were called for, the prolpect.
at each time, mud have prefeuted the ap
pearance of a less competent supply, ora
greater deficiency, than was afterward:
realized. .
I am not sure but that I owe an apology
to the House for taking up so much of its
time in obviating the imputation of paiti
ality or favoritifm, towards the banks—
The afpe£t under which I view it, admo
nishes me that I may have annexed to it
greater importance than was intended tc
be given to it by its authors.
That adifpofition friendly to the accom
modation of those institutions, as far a:
• hey might be confident with official duty &
the public interest, has charafleriCed the
conduct ot the department, w ill not be de-
No man placed in the office of Secreta
ry flf the Treasury, whatever theoretic
doubts he may havebrought into it, would
be a single month without furrenrtering
By P. F REN E AU: Publijhed Wednesdays ana Saturdays , at Three Dollars per annum.
those doubts to a full conviction, that banks
are efl'ential to the pecuniary ope rations oi
the government.
No man, having a practical knowledge
of the probable resources ot the country,
in the article of fpecic (which he would
with caution rate beyond the actual reve
nues of the government) would rely upon
the annual collection of four millions and
a half of dollars, without the instrumen
tality of institutions, that give a continual
impulse to circulation, and prevent the
llagnation, to be otherwise expected from
locking up from time to time large funis
(or periodical difburfemcnts ; to lay no
thing of the accommodations, which la
diitate to the merchant the payment of the
Loniiderable demands made upon him by
the treasury.
No man, practically arqua nted with the
pecuniary ability ot intlividuals, in thi
conntrv, would count upon finding th.
means of tbole anticipations of the cur
rent revenue for the current fiprvice, which
have been and will be necessary, from any
jther l'ource, than that ol the banks.
No prudent administrator of the finan
ces of the country, therefore, hut would
Yield to the difpofuion, which has been ac
knowledged, as alike eficiitial to the nuei -
ell of she government and to the <atiriac -
:ory discharge of his trust : a tlifpoiition
which would naturally lead to goodotf.ces,
within the proper and jultifiable bounds.
After the explanation which has been
offered, to manifelt the neceflity and pro
priety of the loans made of the bank, it
:aii scarcely be requisite to enter into a re
futation of theprocefs, by which it hat.
been endeavoured to eltablilh, that the
government pays seventeen per cent, upon
;hofe loans—The Hate of the treasury ren
dered it expedient to borrow the fufljs
which were borrowed ; they Have been
inly received,,and the rate of intereii lii
aulated upon tliein is 5 per cent. T he gov
rrnment then pays upon them 5 P cr tcnt
md no more. _ _ '
The hillory which was given in my last
etter of the course and Situation of the
"oreign fund, proves that the supposition,
'rom which the inference, of paying fe
. enteen pcr cent, upon the domellic loan,
las been drawn, is erroneous.—The ba
lances 011 hand at the refpeftive periods in
(tiellion, are the residues of the monies
which had been received from every
fource —including the loans foreign and
domcltic.
But if the supposition, which appears to
have been made, had been true—it was
[till impolfible that seventeen per cent,
rould have been paid. By 110 construction
can the rate be extended beyond ten. —
The mean intereftof the money borrow
ed abroad including charges is j per cent.
—the interest stipulated to be paid on the
loan from the bark is dfo five—the Allll el
the two is ten. —It is immaterial for what
purpose the foreign fund was obtained,
whether to pay to France or to purchase
the debt—the worlt confequenee that can
rcfult is double not treble interest.—The
interest payable to France is payable lor
monies borrowed and /pent during llie war.
It can never be truly laid that, that inter
est is now payable 011 any cxiltiug fund,
whether borrowed in Holland or borrow
ed in the United States, or borrow ed rlicre
ind re-borrowed here—ltcarinever fervc
:o make an addition to the enft or charges
L>f any fuchfund. '1 is payable upon out-,
long imce procured and hjed.
But it is not obvious how the suppositi
on came to be entertained, that all the mo
llies drawn here from theforeign fund'had
been borrowed forthepayment of the debt
to France.—The prelumption would feeni
to have been more natural, that they hud
been principally, if not wholly introduc
ed with a view to purcliafes of the debt,
and consequently had a more special refei -
ence to the ast authorizing a loan lor that
purpose. And the fait is, that this \Va:
the deflination of far the greatest propor
tion of the funis drawn for—lt has been
Hated, that a part had an eye to the l'up
plies to St. Domingo, and that anothei
part was introduced with a view to the
payment of the foremen officers.
The additional observations to which 1
fnall requcft the attention of the HOIIO
will apply to the course aud state of the
linking fund, concerning which, I tranf
initted with my last communication, three
llatements numbered I, 11, and 111. t
To give a more colleftcd view of thi 1 .
part of thefubjeft, it may be of life to in
clude here a recapitulation of some ideas,
which have been itated in other places.
1% is the coitrfe and prafticc of this de
partment for all public monies, tronrwhat
cver source proceeding, to pass into the
treasury, and there torn) a common mal* ;
I'ubjeil, under tire responsibility ol the of
ficers of the department, to the dispositi
ons whiuh have b£en prefcribtd by law:
The surplus at the end of the year 1791
appropriated to the finking fund ant;
amounting tq 1,374,656 dollars and 4c
cents, vv ent as it \» as received into ti.£
treasury.
All the proceeds of the bills drawn tip
i;j the foreign fin d, prior to April, 179-,
.•xcept the luiuof 177,998 delit:r< ant,! c
. cuts,' left in depohl with the ba::I: ol
North-America, tor reufons which have
>eeii explained,.palled from time to time
Dto-the freafuiy- 1 hew hole amount oi
he fun.s paid 111 is 907,294 dollars and 23
J he proceeds of the bills drawn for ir
fuMequent to April, i 7 9«, have not
/if palitd into the Treafui'y, for re»(V»ns
av-»v !i c betn lircuite i.Uigncd. It
ailjflfiiiave-betU dune bcic.re this time a?
Arab the receipts had £Oiie, but c - r '' ,c
iref-iit inquiry, whith temporarily fuf
>ended it 1 thought it belt to make no
4j; ration in tlie Hate of things, as they
ioovl when i»- began, at lealt, 'till all tile
ifformation desired had been p,iv*u. Mea
tires w ill now be taken for afettlement ol
lie accounts aiitl l,ir a transfer of the pro
ved s. 1 lie whole ai)!ouiit of those bills
|iaid ajid Unpaid, including an eftiiiiated
am of intcrell, will be, as heietolore ila
ed, 1,220,476 dollars and 10 cents.
'yhe whole amount of the bills drawn is
11305,-60 dollars and 13 cents.
Out of the linking fund composed of the
'ut plu.s tif the revenue, to the end ol
ind the proceeds of the foreign bills, there
.♦ere iffuei from the J rcafury, and ex
pended in purchases to the enil of 1792;
1J7,7"° dollars and 65 ccnts.
for teafoirs which have been Cated, it
■vas finally deemed advifeable to piacc
hofc purchases wholly to the account ol
he surplus of 1 790.
Consequently there remained on the ill
if January, of the present year 416,885
lollars and 75 ccnts, of the above menu
>ned surplus unapplied to purchases—ami
he whole of the foreign fund, except the
um of 726,000 dollars paid and rcfervec
:o be paid, for the life of the colony of St.
Domingo, and the fnm of 191,316 dol
lars and 90 cents paid, and reserved to bt
laid to the foreign officers, became fre*
or future application. 'J he balance o:
he proceeds ot the bills alter dedu£Hnj
for those reservations, is 1,388,452 dollar:
and 22 cents.
Since the ift of January, 1793. then
have been ifi'ued 011 account ot the fore.gr
fund, for purchases, 284,901 dollars and »c
cents.
1 he practice has uniformly been not tt
separate any of the momes belonging t<
the linking nind, from the common mass o:
the monies in the 1 reafury, but in propor
tion to the occalions ol inverting them ii
purchases.
Ileiice the sum of 957,77° dollars and 6 <
cents, ifliitd previous to tiie present year
and 1 he sum of 284-901 dollarsantlß9 cents
lined during the present year, making to
1.242,672 dollars and 54 cents, aic
all the monies, which have been ever fepa
t-ated Irom the common mass of the trea
sury foi ihe pin pole of the linking tnnd .
the w hole of which, except 49, aSs dollar!
.uid 74 cents, have been <»c,Ually expendec
in purchases. , _ . .
The unapplied sum remains depohted 11
the bank ot the United States, excepts
lii,all iallance of 61 dollars and 76 cents,
in thi hands of William Heth,
From the above rule, the port of the
linldr,;- fund ariling from i.itereft oil tlu
debt rxlim nifi.ed by purchases or other
wile, is to'be excepted. The praaice hi-
J,two, has been to m-.lude this imertll ir
tliegeneral dividend Of- each quarter, an<
the w arrant ifliied to the Galhier of tht
l ank for paying it. The llatenient >,o.
111, accompanying my lali letter, (hews thf
application of this lund hitherto.
The law d:re£ts that this fund dial! be in
verted within 30 days after each quai ter.
This provision began to take effect 011 tht
lit of July lall.
But the ir.veftments were notmade With
in the refpeftive times prescribed. This
proceeded partly frouj) the state of the
market, and partly from the regulations
adopted by the fiommillioners, who were,
the Secretary of State, the Attorney Gen
eral, and the Secretary of the Treasury.
[Total No. 152.]
Their regulations applying to the two
firft quarters, limited the prices to certain
rates and prefcr.bed the mode of sealed
proposals. The Treasurer was appointed
agent for the commifliencrs.
The proposals, with rc-garcJ to the firft
quarter were receivable 'till the 28th of
July inchifively—none were offered, as the
i reafurtr reported td ine, and nothing was
done.
The experiment of sealed proposals vvai
again tried the second quarter, with fame
what more, though fliiluith but little
luccefc —T he relttittion to this mode of
proceeding was refunded, on the last day
of the thirty, allowed for purchafsig, and
fomr furtherpurchafes were made, but the
whole sum inverted was only 25,969 dol
lars and 56 cents.
The refidr.e of this fund except some
final!ftlfnt noted at foot of flat-ement No.
14 w as inverted in Januury part.
The unapplied part of the fnrplus of
1790, having been expended in aid ol the
recfijis of 1:91, according ta the prc.vi
ion which waiii;a(fe for that pufpofe, vi'l
remain flifprnded until the future receipts
Ihall so far exceed the current dijii.r/e
---v.ents as to produce a fnrplus for replace
"g't-
In computing the amount of the tnap
>lied foreign fund it is neceflary to take in J
:o the account, the payments made from ic
luring the years 1791 and r792, on account"
>f the interelt of the foreign debt.
Provision having been made for paying
his interelt out of the doniellic revenue*
—the funis whicji have been paixl on that
iccount from the foreign fund, are to be
:oniidercd in the fame light, as if they had
>een transferred here by drafts.
Ihe amount paid at An.fterdam is
,633,189 guilders and 2 stivers, eqnal at
;6 4-11 ninetieths per guiltier, to 659,874
lollarsand 34 cents.
There will be additions to be-made,
•\hich are not at present afecrtained.
Adding this sum to the proceeds of the
>ills and deducting the funis paid and to be
>aid for St. Domingo, and the foreign of
icers and these applied topurchafes during
In present year—there will remain a sum
:f I, (3,424 dollars and C 8 cents, fubjtft
o a future application.
Of this fiim 1,715,098 dollars and ti
:ents, will be properly applicable to the
uirchafe of the debt. I>wt circumstances
nay render it eligible to appropriates part
>f it towards the difiharge ol the foreign
lebt.
From the plan, which has been pursued,
t is also liable to this application.
I have the honor to annex to the ftate
nents heretofore tranfmiftcd those in the
>rinted chednles marked A, B and C.
A, exhibits the relative fiats of revenue &
appropriations co'theeud of 1752 E, the
e) alive slate of appropriations and expen
lit-irts to the fame period — (hewing the
jalance unfatislicd of each head of appro
priation. C, applies these (iatemenis totn
explanation of the demands or charges
,ipon the excess of income, beyond the dif
>urfeinents to the end of I:9a.
In addition to these are two ftatemer.ts
narked D E.—D, (hew irg \\ hat pi 0-
jortiuns of ilie balances iinfalislkd of the
leveral appropriations are likely to be real
expenditures, and w hat part are net lik'e
ly tobefo—ln this however in feverai in
(iances probability imift guide, the natine
as the thing not admitting of" certainty.
E. fliew ingthe calh 011 hand upon the firft
of January lart, aiul likely to be received
from that day to the lit of April next, and
the funis paidand payable during that pe
riod.
The result, founded npon fact'-, contra
dicts very cflentially that fiatemeiit, v hiclr 1
aims at (hewing the ability of the TrcaftiP''
ry, befidcs defraying the current expeuu
of the quarter, to pay off two tnil'ionJf'trcM
the bank ; still leaving a balance in f-.UWr'
of the Treafnry of 664,293 dollars afld-isVl
•Jl!) 118
cents. ,
It (hews that sfter fatisfying thff' -Hi* 1
inands for which (he trtafiiry is fcotW<t''tb l
be prepared, including a payment t't> thii.'
baukof only one ter.th part of the2,oo6'ilfefc£
o{ which the fiatemeiit alluded to
fes the complete payment —there v.'6i,U'
remain a balance in la\curof the (reafuty
o. 1 ' no more thai- -Jcda; - :. '
It could ar.fwerno vaiuaole purpose to
delay the Hoiife with a particular exam ill
ation of the various mifapprohtnliOiis
which have led to a result, to d JiVreut
from the trite one. It <viii bf lUfScient as
an example, to slate a (ingle i-nUance 11 is
aduuied as au item in the calcula'.-oa, thata Aim of j million of dollars will come into
the treasury by the firll of April, on ac
coii it of the revenue of the car rent year ;
viiile rlie probability is, that the sum re
ceived m'.y not exceed ten thousand dol
'ar3—this presumption of a million is evi
dently founded upon two miltakes.—ill.
It proceeds on the balls of an annual reve
nue »t four millions of t;ol!ars, and fu-p
---pofes this luin equally distributed between
the different quarters of the year, a milli
on to each quarter, when infacl there ane
two fe ifonsof the year incomparably more
productive than the other parts of it, viz.
Those portions of th» spring and fall which
are embr iced by the second and third quar
ters—the firll and fourth lef; pro
ductive. 2d. It supposes all the duties
which accrue are immediately paid ;
whereas the cases of prompt payment are
confined to those in which the duties on
particular articles imported in one veii'el,
by oneperfon or co-partner(hip, do not ex
ceed 50 dollars; in all other inllances, a
credit not less than 4 months is allowed,
which carries the payment on the impor
tations. upon the very fir.t day of the quar
ter, a month beyond the expiration of it.
If the whole amount of the duties,
which accrucd during the firft quarter ol
179 A in caih and bo ids, was no more than
307 r63 dollars and 84 cents, adding 1-7
for the additional duties, it ought bv ana
logy to be the firft quarter of the prefenl
ye ir. 32.1,472 doll irs and 94 cents ; in
totality, than the sum which it has beei
computed would be a£tually in money ir
the treafiiry, by 677,527 dollars and fi>
cent 1 * ; and lefsby the whole million, near
ly, than will probably be in money in thf
treasury on tiat account.
With perfect refpeft,
I have the honor to be
S I R,
Your moll obedient
And molt humble servant,
ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary of the Trtajury
The h'tn or able the Speaker of
the Honje of Reprejeutati'ves.
Feb. 19.1793-
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE
LONDON, Feb. 14.
The French fyltem of war is offenfivi
in the northern parts of the republic, when
their force will be greatest. The change
introduced inco their fyltem threaten Ei.g
land with an invalion—Lalt year Germa
ny u lited ag linlt France an army of Too
000 men : this army has been greatly di
minilhed, but will be augmented this yea
to 180 000 m;n. To the southward th
fyltem of France will be defenlive ; Spu'u
cannot put quite 50,00 c men on foot,Sardi
nia nearlv the fame number.
The French force is to confilt of upward
of five hundred thousand men, to be divi
ded into eight arm.es, three in the north
/three in the south, and two in the foutl
ea.t. B lides this immense force there i
to be an army of reserve at Chalons, am
an ar ,iy of observation on the coast oppo
lite to England.
Tne i-larfeiiles forces left Paris the 71!
of Jam iry lall ; having previously and in
dividual!/ aken a f >lem 1 oath to aveng<
the bioo 1 us the French Ihed inltaly,evei
in the midlt of Rome, thf mother of abo
initiations—•• We are going to Rome
(said they) .m l we will not return till \\t
can walk 111 proteffion with the head o
th ? holy father, the pope, npoiftjpike !
1 n the prefeut fever of loyalty, whei
every Engljlhmao is under inqu litoria
juriftticti >n, one or two fiich resolution
as the following <vould not be amiss to bt
adopted —-- Resolved that the care of oui
foifi> iball be lefr to theprieih, and of oui
liberties and properties to the statesmen ;
and that We w.ll pay our tythes and taxes,
and put our implicit trust in them—Resol
ved. that we will carefully avoid all wri
tings md meetings, and conversations aboul
articles of belief or the rights of man,
linca they are heretical and Seditious. —
Resolved, that the means of knowledge
ai)d .improvement are the contrivances of
allien s and republicans—wrenhes who
despise the holy doctrine of infallibility in
church and llate t"
Wiiat 11 strange species of monster mud
t|iis ''lomas Paine be. that all the rules ol
equity leaf., to be rules the moment he is
th? f.ifljeit of aniinadverlioii 1 , Ait ihat were
pr-.fent at his trial know by w hat means a
verd it agaiml him was procured ; by re
peated proclamations, by all the force, and
all the fears of the kingdom being artlul
ly turned againlt one man. Those who
came out of court saw hand bills in tin
molt vulgar and illiberal style distributed,
entitled, The confeffion of Thomas Paine.
Not three fqtlares could be walked before
we were encountered by ballad-lingers
roaring in cademe rude a set of fturrilous
ftanz,as upon his private life. An infatuated
people may for the present applaud fucli
proceedings, but will in the end regret
them, as giving the last fatal flroke to the
liberties of Englilhmen.
The courts of England and Spain have at
last come to a settlement about the Noot-
Jia found balinefs. The court of Spain
Glides restoring the several vefi'els captur
ed, pays an indemnity of 210,000 dollars.
It ii expetted a decree c>f banifliment
will fuon be pafi'ed Uy the convention
against every individual of the Bourbon
race now in France, .uul death in cafe they
return. M. F.galite (late duke of Orleans)
to evade the sentence is endeavouring t"
make itappearthat h* is of illegitimatede
fcent, being in reality the fun of a coach
man. This however, if it prevents his ba
nilhment, will not feci'.re his inheritance,
vvhich if the bailardy is proved, will bt
considered as national property.
For the National Gazette-
No 11.
To the FREEMEN of the UNITED
STATES.
Fellow-Citizens,
THE proofs of the misapplication of the
_ public monies by the Secretary of tin
7 reafury are abundantly concltilive, anr
flow out of the defence made by hiinfelf.
now before the public. Every paee of thai
defence, whilst teeming with apologies fo>
his mifco idu£t, contains.an acknowledg
ment of guilt. "V ou, my fellow citizens,
at large, have been the AilVerers—the ba;il<
of the United Statesand its favourites, the
frincijal if not the only gainers. I pro
ceed tntrefore to (hew,
Firji, The a£tu ;1 loss to the peopled
the United States by the mifapplicatioii ol
public monies
Secondly. The actual gain to the bank bj
an illegal use of the public monies.
Thirdly. The poflible and probable gaii
to the favourites of the bank, by the n.Jlru
me'itcdity of difce-unts on the illegal rWpo-
of the public mollies.
And firft. as to the actual loss to the peo
ple of the United States by the misapplica
tion of the public monies. On this poini
:he acknowledgments made by the Secrc-ta
ry are, lit, 1 hat be drew over from Hoi
and 2.304.769 dollars, including therei
the sum of 445,263, dollars, supplied foi
the rel'et ot St. Domingo, on account o'
the debt due to France.—2dly, That the
everal banks were the agents he employee
:o fell the bills drawn for the said money
$dly, That not one (hilling of the money f<
Irawn from Holland was ever advaneee
>r paid on account of the linking fund ; bu
hat all the purchases of the public deb
ivhich have yet taken place, were mad<
nut of a furpltf, of revenue at the end o
:he year 1-90, and no part of them out o
iny of the foreign monies.—And 4thly
1 hat 011 tlie firll day of January lalt, then
oras 011 hand, as Hated in my firll number
-xclufive of the aforrfaid payment to St
Domingo, the sum of 2,333,7 0 dollars o
'üblic money, in cash, belides the very lafg<
■ mount of 2,854.195 dollars iq bonded du
ies, which principally fall due in 1-93.—
F rom which acknowledgments the eleeluc
j an is felfei ident,that no part ofthe afore
aid f.im of 2 304.769 dollars, drawn ovei
from Holland lias been apple-d to any pur-
T>fe or demand of government whatever
or appears ever to have bee n neceflary so
my ftich purpofr or demand ; but that tlx
whole of it has been mala fide, appl ed ane
a fed to the sole and exclulive profit ofthe
everal banks employed by the Secretary a'
'lis agents, in the sale of the bills, from tin
ime the monies were paid in Holland un
il the present time. Hence it refills, tha
lie Secretary of the Treasury is accounta
ble to the public for a loss of interest o
he entire sum drawn for in the year 1791
it fix per centum per annum, from the
imes refpe£ti"ely that the payments of tin
ame were made in Holland," until the i(
lay of January 1793, when by his owi
hewing the said money was laying 011 hint
n cash, untouched, and not even pretendce
o have been used —This loss. as will b<
een bv the following ftr.tement, amount
:o 76,354 dollars—tn wit i
On 110,591 dollars paid in Amfterdan
28th Feb. 1791 —Intert fl at 6 per cent, te
ft January 1793 —12,166 dollars.
On 41 543 dollars, 22d March—intercl!
0 f me time, loft 4,389.
On 135.914 ditto, 30th April—interest
o fame time, loft 13.580.
011 77,600 ditto, 31ft May—interest tc
'fine time, loft 7.572.
On 129,336 ditto, 27th July—interest tc
ame loft 11,628.
On 74.400ditt0, 44th Augurt—intereft tc
ame lime, loft 5,951.
011 16 382 ditto, 26th September—inte
rest to fame time, loft 1,415.
On 18,000 ditto, 31ft Oftober—intereft
10 fame tune, loft 1,260,
011 15,816 ditto, 28th December—inte
rest to fame time, loft 948.
On 316,966 ditto, 31ft January 1798 —in-
terest to fan-e t'rlie, loft 17,424.
On 13 or o ditto, 20th February»-intereft
to fame time, loft 650.
Total loss to the public upon the monies
drawn tor in 1791—76,354 dollars.
T he Secret 'ty is also accountable to the
public for a loss in thepayment ot interest o
so much of the debt to France ag is equal in
amount to the aforefaid several films drawn
over to this country during the fame period
of time, (ince it is now well understood and
admitted, that the diversion cl the money
here produced a defalcation ;n the pay-
ments to France in equal ratio. 1..
computed at 5 p:r cc.it. is equal to 6:9
lolljrs, and added to the aforefaid si.li) of
6-354 dollars makes tile total loss w hie ji
he public fultaine'd upon the money drawn
>vcr in ihe year 1791, one hundred and
hijrty-nins thcufand, nine hundred and
■ighty-three dollars.
The lof> upon the monies drawn over in
i "92. ought to be computed upon the fame
jrinciples; the amount drawn for being
ibont r,200,000 dollars, but the Secreta
ry's reports refpefling it have been so dark
u d ambiguou no dale or amount being
;:ven to a ii;-gle payment made either in
urope Or this country, that no precipe
fateinent of it can yet be made. It is,
lowever. leaving-littie to conje&ure, if thi:
ols be eflimatect as at ieaft equal to 50,00 c
loilars, making the aggregate loss to the
)üblic upon the whole of what has beer
ailed iujlrummtality, or the <t>ill draft/tug
infinejs, 189,983 dollars, it will be re~
lien.bfned, too, that during the year 1-92,
Hid W'hilft the bank w as poilefled of a mucl
arger sum of publicmoney, the Secretar)
übjefted the public to a further loss ot ;
)er cent, interift. on the sum of 4CO,OCC
loilars ,J'aid to be borrowed of the bank ai
he fame time-
No exception will, it is prefnmef!,be ta
<e:i to t-ffi:l ating the public loss general!)
1. equal to eleven percent, altho'the Se
retary in his report of the 19th of Febru
ry last, page 11, fee:ns tp infer that th<
01? could not be extended beyond ten pei
'ent. His words are. "If tlie fuppolitior
a hicli appears to have bet n made, had bee
rue, it was fiill impoflible that 17 per cen
:ould have been paid. By no conjlruciiot
an the rate Le extended Oeyond ten." Fo.
lie Secretary a| pears to have forgottci
hit whilfl we were paying j percent, to Hoi
a: d for the money borrowed and draw i
>vei- here, and another 5 per cent, on tht
lebt due to France, one of which was;
.'ear loss to the United States, there wh
noreover an actual loft of fix per cent, in
urrcd at home by the non-inveifiture o
he money in flock, his own ffatement
;xhibiting tnat,until Augull 1 791, the mar
'.et prhe oi' lix per cents had not reachei
SOS. in the pound, and that purchases in th<
; per <ent-. aid deferred debt could ha\i
leen made confider.bly later, and at ;
nuch greater profit to the public.
Haviag thus exhibited the aggregate a
nount of Icfsfuiiaincd by the people ot tin
Jnited States, in the misapplication of thi
public monies, it occurs to ihew.
Secondly, The aiiual gain to the bank
jy an illegal u 'e O the public m<*iier.
Upon this pniilt, after the acknowledp;
lient made by the secretary, to wit, Tha
m the ill of January 'aft,' there waj 01
land a greater amount in cafii of the pub
ie money than the whqlefmp 0f2.304.-Y-K
loilars originally drawn over iron) Hoi
a id, it would be fuperilnous to exami.ii
mnutely \\ hen the monies so drawn ove
ivere palled into the treasury, or receive*
it bank, since it mull be admitted as untie
liably jnff, that if the secretary and tin
)anks can charge the public with the/?/
irumentatity ot that money for public pur
jofes, when it is acknowledged never t*
lave been expended, the public have a tw<
old claim to ch rge the secretary and the
- inks, in whose hands the money aftualb
vas, with the inftrnmentality of the fa mi
noney for bank purpofes.up'to the said fii I
lay of January lad. In this view, thegai,
o :Ue banks is clearjaid obvious. By°thi
barter and conflitution of the refpectiva
xmks, they are ed to discount at ;
ate not exceeding fix per centum per an
"ins, upon twice the amount of the monie:
hey may at any time have in deposit; am
r is a well known principle of banking thai
lepolits of money do not lay unemployed
Hence, elfimating at the fix per cent, rate
ifintereft, the loss to the public upon the
monies drawn over in 1-91, at 76.354 dol
lars, and upon the monies drawn over ii
1792, at 50,000 dollars, making togethe:
1 -26,354 dollars, it results that the ac.ua
lain 10 tiie banks may be computed ai
dollars.
It now remains to Ihew, Thirdly, Th.
joffibie and probable gain to the favourite;
at the bank by the injhumentality of d f
counts on the illegal depofitsof the public
monies.
The report of the Secretary lart referred
:o. page 14, throws some light 011 this point.
Hellas there given a certificate ligned bv
Vlatthew M Connell, one of the broker.-
at Philadelphia, Hating " the marketpri;e
ifpublic flocks, taken from actual purchase
and sales during the years 1791 and 1792.''
From this certificate it will appear to the
(lighted observer, that the brckeraec rntt
if interest tor money during those periods,
and which it is well known was never lef
upon the average than two per cent, pei
month, did not reach or exceed the atlual
prefit 1 o the buyers and fellers of flock,
uhich its fluctuations of price yield; d
Hence, those favourites o tl c bank, win.
ilelired to profit by the' Huftnarions in th,
pijcei of stock, and were always at bane
to» receive its discounts, could place the
money thus obtained to a dear profit ol
1? per centum per annum, that bring the
difference between he before mentiont c'
brokerage rateo!' interest, or monthly pro
fit of money during the periods I have re
termed to, and the lix per centum p;r a.i
uuiii, paid to th." ba. i; for its diUouiits.
If tlien, as linsbeen fhcwn, rhe bank at it
legal rate of" iix per ceit. interelt.mighr
E ;< ' e . *5-i.708 dollars, it follows that The
profit to its favourites, eftimatid upon the?
foregoing principle at 18 per ccnt. would
be equal to ihe sum of 758,124 dollars, be
ing thrice the amount of the legal pro.lt to
ch» !> ink. But could there exist ~'d lu i>t as to
thepirffible 1 ain here dated to the favourites
"1 the bank, it would be removed by cal
ling to mind the progress of tilings dtirint
t!ie period of the Scrip-mania,which com
menced 011 the 4th of July i 7yi , when the
inscription to the bank of the United
S tales took efiect, and continued until some
Lime iij Maccli 1792, w hen the bubble burlt
by the failure and imprisonment of its prime
mover William Duer, late afirtant to the
Secretary ol the Treasury. How many
favourites made their fortunes within that
period, or how many, for lack of prudence,
I ailed to dofo, it may not be materia! r.o-jj
to panic ul.rize. It will be fufficient to
glance at a few of the co,liberations which
lU.tiiy the probability that the pojfible gain
Oi 753,124 dollars before stated has been
realized to the favourites of the bank.
Eveiy one has seen, that fincethe eftab
iiihment of the bank and funding system
men have come from each extremity of
the Union, who,st the ci mmenceinent of
iliofe inltitmions were notorioufiy known
not to be monied men, and who have since
Itarted up bank-directors and flock-holders
to large amount. p6ffeffii, E the mofiexten
live mon,id credit and influence.
La.ge as the sum I have stated appears
tii ,;e. divide it among some twenty of the
favouritesMiSJtipporters o:certain tyft em ,,
■•I'd it c iininiii.e- to Icfs than forty thou
a«.d dollars each.
And are there not among the difliJgui",.-
'■d feij, enough who now ajpea>- ni cir
. uinltances to juilifv every fufpuio.-i? Has
not the information wh ch ofi cial and lc
;ifl.itive lituation afforded, been violated
i t. abuftd by the Reprtfcnt. the to prey
-poii the ignorance ot his ConUitnent ?
Haie not pilot-boats been dispatched from
r/ o1 s< veln, " en t during the ftfiions
ongreio, uro 1 the nefaiious bnfintfs of
inn haling np ccit.fiiate in dilhuit state
he value of v hichdept mi. d upon the votes
'■thtmemltrnfj.ctnm, body,w|mh mem
bers by thedifpo;ition oftheirvotescould ob
:ainc!if.ou s6o a lyamoun;? Are iot atJecfi
uelve ot the members of the House of
ftepre eiitative- of the United States,floik
lolders in the ba k of the United States,
ind five of th< in bank-dirctfors ? Are not
en or twelve more of" the members of the
.tine hotife large stockholders in the funds
» f the t 11, ted States? Did not every mem
ber Whether bank -director, stockholder
II the bank, or stockholder in the funds.
'°te for the acquittal of the Secretary of
he Treasury on the late enquiry ? 'i t | »
nigle man interested ill the bank, or in the
public debt vote against the secretary ?
Were not those votes his principal and al
i.oft only support ? Were not three of the
xink-direftors his principal champions and
defenders? Takeaw ay the votes of bank
:lire£>ors and flockholders, and is the Se
.retary fairly acquitted or condemned >
Is not the bank, its direflors and ftockhol
:!ers as much a party defendant in the late
■"TO" rhe secretary of the treasury
Flluifeir . \\ a~, nol tile enquiry (imply
ivhether the secretary and hir agents, the
nan'cs, had illegally and improperly'ufed
and applied two millions of the public mo.
1-y drawn over from Holland in an unau
ihorized manner ? Were not bank-d:rec
:or.i and Oockholder,- interested in the quef
: on, and if so, partial and improper judges*
Such, my fellow c tizens, is the nature
jf those reflections and enquiries which
:Ins important fubjea presents. On a fu
:ure occasion, another, and equally inter
ring view of it w iil be taken, tending to
Jrove that die public debt is encreainjr,
*as encreafecl. and will be yet more cod
iderably eiiireafvd, under the present ad
ninillratioii of its finances.
, ~ , TIMON.
April 2d, 1-93.
Co the EDITOR of the NATIONAL
GAZETTE.
S I R.
\ GERMAN society has been eOablin,.
Ed in this city, for .republican ptirpo
es. and as a hue and cry has lieen raised
igainft it by some who are both iglioraiu
• I its principles and its objects, and as a
liifreprefentation may excite prejudice in
he minds of even candid a"d ren,jki; aK
nen, you are requeued to give thp enclo
<l circular letter a place in your nfeful
,> per—As the objects of the society are
ntficiently designated in the letter, it will
be nnneceflsry to enter into any'further
explanation, either tofatisfy the well dis
posed, or to Ihut the mouths of [narlert ■
.t would be to the advantage of Pennf v ]l
ama and oftheU lion if political fociet'ies
•vere eftabliflied throughout the United
States, as thev would prove powerful in
.truments in support of the present fyflem
or equality, and formidable enemies to
ariltocracy in whatever (hape it miirht ore
f-r.i itfelf — May-the example of the Ger
man Republican Society prove a spur to
the friends of equality throughout the U.
niteu States I
A CUSTOMER.Frituas a:/d Fella-j) Citiznu,
IN a republican government it is a duty
incumbent on every citizen to a Sard his
afsfiance, either by taking a pari in its ini'-
mediate adminirtration, or by his advice,
and watchfulnefa, that its principles may
remain uncorrupt ; for the spirit ot" liber
ty, like every virtue of the mind, is to be
kept alive only by conftam aftion—lt un
fortunately happens that objects of gene
ral concern seldom meet with the indivi
dual attention which they merit, and that
individual exertion seldom produces a ge
neral effect; it is therefore of eflential mo
ment.' that political societies fa >uld be
cltablithed ill a free government, that a
joint operation may be produced, which
lhail give that attention and exertion so
necelfary to the preservation of civil liber
ty —The importance and truth of these re
flections have operated upon a number ol
Germans in this city, they have therefore
thought fit to ali'ociate themselves in a so
ciety under the name of the German re
publican society of Philadelphia. The
..German character has hitherto languiihed
in America, owing to the inattention ot
the Germans to obje£h »f governme it
and education ; it is high time they Ihould
step forward, declare themselves indepen
dent of other influence, and think for
themfelves—lgnorance not only excludes
us from many enjoyments in life, bnt
renders us liable toimpofition, and to judge
of an evil, and its extent we Ihould have
a mUdcultivated by education, added to
our own, or the experience of others ;
hence the neceflity of inltruction and in
formation in a government where every
citizen ihould be capable of judging of the
conduct of rulers, and the tendency of
laws—The society withes to impress the
importance and the advantages ot educati
on upon the minds of their brethren
throughout the state—To be reflected,
men should be virtuous, but to be capable
of fulfilling a republican duty and ot ser
ving our country, we should connect wis
dom with virtue—There is adifpolition in
the human mind to tyrannize when cloath
ed with power, men therefore who are en
trusted with it, should be watched with
the eye of an eagle to prevent those abuses
which never fail to arise from a want of
vigilance—Jealousy is a security, nay it is
a virtue in a republic, for it begets
watchfulnefs ; it is a necefiary attendant
upon a warm attachment to our country.
Tne society wifli to call the attention of
their countrymen to affairs of (tare ; they
wilh to inspire them with jealousy to guard
them against every encroachment on the
equality of freemen ; As the faithful ad
mi iiltratioii of government depends great
ly upon a judicious delegation made to of
flees dependant upon the people, it is a
common duty to give this every attention ;
we (halt, therefore, comprehend this in
our plan, and we will take the liberty,
uccalionally, to offer ouropinions, and (hall
t!:ke a peculiar pleasure in receiving a
free communication of fentimerlt from
you on this subject—We think proper to
n lign reasons why we have aif iciated our
feilves in a German society, and why we
hive chosen the German language, to con
<lud and communicate our tranfaftions ;
A large portion of the citizens of this Itate
are German, and many of them are whol
ly ignorant of the Englilh language, and
therefore ignorant of the most essential
transactions of our government ; it is but
jult, therefore, that information should be
given them in a language which they un
delftand, on those subjects which involve
this d'-areft interests —Being, in rommon
wilh our brethren of other nations, but
ole people, we will not to m ike national
didincfions but in so tar as neceflity may
require ; a kindred in language w ill ne
cefi'arily draw men together, for we are as
naturally inclined to those with whom we
can hold communion in our own, as we
are distant from others, who are incapa
ble of social intercourse with us from an
ignjiranc'e of their language—This will be
get dHHnifion, but as it is more the diftinc
tioit of language than of nation, it will
only remain until the-~finglHh language
(hall become the mother tongue of every
•citilen in the state. Our ficuation is pe
culiar, and we mult avail ourselves of
those advantages, which our brethren,
who are coaverfant in the Engliih language
Ctt Ti Kii'riv,-
Thus we have, in as concise a man
, ner as poflible, pointed out the views
t of the society, and we hope for your con
currence and afliflance in giving the Ger
mans that station which their industry,
their integrity, and their patriotism merit;
Any communications which you may have
•to m ake, you wiil please to addrfcfs'to the
Preli dent and German republican society of
Phil; delphia. As we have in our conlti
tutio n provided for the admission of mem
bers at a distance by the title of honorary
and corresponding members, you will
pleas e to inform us if you wish to be con
fident as one of our botTy, that we may
enroll you accordingly.
Viith our best willies for your private
as Wi II as public happiness, we are—
By order of the society,
HENRY KAMMERF.R,
Vice Prclident.
A pril 11.
[From the VIRGINIA GAZETTE-]
THE tumult which the late election
X for a delegate lor ,this diflrict has
produced, and the report of my having
taken ail a£tive part therein, has rendered
it necefl'ary that I make the following re
marks.
I luppofe that the strictures on the pro
ceedings of Cosigrefs which have appear
ed in yours and other papers, tinder my
lignature, are still remembered, which a
mong other confederations proceeded from
the opinion that the Secretary of the Trea
fury, had either ex officio, or by ufurpati
-011, acquired an influence aid power over
the wealth and councils of America which
are incompatible with the principles ui
that conltitution under which he holds hi
appointment—Thus thiiiking. I rejoiced
at the prospect of that .pu'ilic inquiry,
which the refolutioni of Mr. Giles con
tempiated ; to obtain certain aid earl\
information on thisfubjeit, I wasextreme
ly inquisitive, and was advised before the
resolutions were acted upon, that a majo
rity oi Congress were determined, either
to perplex them with difficuliies, or de-'l)
their propriety ; it remained then only to
inquire who 01 the delegates from this
itate ihould give aid to tlie forejudging
majority.
i he yeas and nays as publilhed in the
Nation il Gazette, which wasthetirt cer
tain inform ition I obtained, dated tliat
Mr. Gritii i voted with the majority, anil
in opposition to the general voice oi his
colleagues—being of opinion that they
were merely queitions of fait, that there
was a predetermined majority, and thai
the members who were of the minority
had in every initaiice shewn themselves to
be firm patriots, 1 declared that Mr. Grif
lin ihould not have my vote, which decla
ration being made, it became necefl'ary
then to give my reafous. The day after
[ uas informed bv a member of Oongrefs
ihat the communications from the treafu
ry department came so la.e into the lioufc
that it was impoflible for members uhoh, d
not been eng iged 111 the detail, so to invefti
jate the fubjett, as to give a condemnato
ry vote. I alio heart! that Mr. Giles was
lot permitted to withdraw the aforefaid
resolutions.
Under these imprefllons, I had some con
serfation with Col. Goodall of Hanover,
nul retai led the fame sentiments, until l it
ivas communicated to me by Mr. Giles,
hat Mr. Griflin, did not even in his view ,
lefei ve censure, that he had Voted for one
>f the rofolutions, and that he could not
noflibly have had time to invest"gate them
ill minutely, as to the particularsof which,
I refer to your last paper ; in confequenct
jf this information I thought it my duty
:o undeceive those who might have rectiv
;d a prejudite from my declarations—l
lot only did so, but gave Mr. Grilfin my
fote—and ,hould have informed Col
joodill thereof, if I had not heard that he
Hid not intend to go to the election, and
:hat Mr. Giles had freely made the fam<
ommunicatimi! to many of Mr. Griffin's
riends, both of this place and Hanover.
With respect to the gentlemen Ulit)
were candidates, I never was the partizan
>feither—my intention was to vote for
lie man who I thought would render the
110 ft service to his condiments, and al
though I voted 011 Monday with cheer
"ulnefs for Mr. Griflin, on Saturday I
hould have a£ted very differently —By
his Ido not mean tojnftify Mr. Griffin's
/ote, though I am fatisfied that his motive
ivas strictly proper.
And now, Mr. Printer, I fliall take my
eave, with the observations, that although
he resolutions may never be revived—al
hough Mr. Hamilton may be continued
iurjng life as the legiQative diitator of the
mion—although a fiction may fiipprcfs
jr negative all future enquiry, I never
si-ill believe, that our countrymen, Madi
-011, Page, Giles, Parker, Moore, and Mer
;er,would act and vote as they have done,
.vithout a juftification beyond the reach of
-eproof or criticism. And it is a mat
er of contemptuous indignation with me,
:o hear contumelious insinuations from
lien who, a little time ago, considered one
if thein as the pivot on which the conlli
ution relted ; —but then there was no ex
rife—llo tax 011 newfpapers—noconfolida
:ion of revenue—llo national bank—no
iflumption—no faction—no jesuitical dlf
;incti«n of orders and balances—no fell
.reated, upltart aristocracy—no con
:laves—no levees—no di&atorial execu
:ive officer—llo crusadings again(t Indians
—no credit in Europe—in fine, no meta
physeal essays to prove, that 'tis light for
:he adminiflrator of the revenue, to keep
ip 500,000 dollars of the public money
.inder the designation of initrlimentality.
svhen the whole continent was in tumult
:o obtain a finaller sum, by the means ot
an excise, so odious and difgiilling, that
even the great and virtuous W; fliington,
was obliged to ifliie an official proclamati
on.—Oh Americans—Americans 1 how
are you debafedandinfulted, by those who
fay that (three or four excepted) there
are none anion" you qualified to discharge
the higher offices of government ! The
question presents a melancholy and awful
profpeft, the evils of whicl) it behoves
vou to prevent.
HENRY BANKS.
PHILADELPH I A.
A PR JL 13.
Letters received at New-York from
Dublin, on Tuesday J alt, inform that Gen.
Dumonrier liad taken Rotterdam, afeaport
town in Holland.
It is mentioned in a letter received this
week fcom France, that " the National
Convention have decreed, that the prizes
made by the cruisers belonging to the re
public of France fnall be tqually divide*
between the French crew and the crew ol
the veflel taken—lt an armed vefl'el is cap
tured, the admiralty lhall purchal'e the
priZJ, and the ainou.it be divided as above. !
Er.glilh papers are in town, to the i 1 It 01
February. As thole mention nothing o]
the execution of the late queen of France,
the former account may be conlidered a:
fully contradicted.
Letters from Sweden intimate, that a
ferment prevails thro' all the provinces ol
that kingdom. In Stockholm a violent
affray took place on the Bth of January, be
tween the military and the citizens, w her
a pistol was tired into the window of the
palace of the Duke Regent. It is appre
hended, ilia- foniething like a French revo
lution is deligned by a number of patriotic
characters in S wden.
A de cent was daily expected, when the
last (hips left ling and. on theiflandsoi
Guernt'ey and Jerl'ey. To prevent the
French from landing, three Fngiifli ships ol
the line and a frigate received orders tc
watch the motions ol theFreuchn that part.
By an arrival at Baltimore lroni mar
feilJes, we learn, thai a multitude ot French
privateers «ere fitting out at Marseilles,
f oulon, Cette. and other ports on the Me
diterranean, about the last of January," to
cruise i'gainlt the Britilh trade. On the
JOth ot February a French privateer of 14
guns tell in with fix fail of F.nglifh and
Oucch, off Cape Palos, took five, and one
brig efcaped'into Gibraltar.
A veilel arrived yesterday that left Fal
mouth the 24th of February the brings no
news of a later date than by the for met
arrivals at this port and N. York
When the last veflels left Martinico, q
report prevailed there that the National
Convention had declared all the French
(lands in the Welt-Indies, free and inde
pendent.
Col. Joseph Neville, is eletted a Reprc
lentative in Congress for the counties ot
Hampshire, Hardy. &c. in theftate of Vir
ginia. Tins completes the \ irginia re
turn, 18 names having been already pub
>ifhed.
It is highly probable(fays a French paper]
that the court ol London took some ltep<
tofave the life of Louis the XVlth, which
at present are not known publicly. In the
afternoon of the 21 ft of January, a intfTen.
t',er from London arrived at Paris, and a
lighted at the house of the minister of fo
reign affairs. The niinilter was inflantlj
.'een reading, with great emotion, the dif
i<atches that had been put into his hands
After he had done reading, he callid th<
melfenger to him and ("aid. " My friend
you have made great haiie," (he had 1 oint
in 49 hours) -' but you have come too fire
Yon are uncoubtedly much fatigued ; Re
ire, and take some reft."
It apjjearsfrom various French papers tha
a £reat a 1 el'ormation in education, t ligioi
and morality is contemplated by the F 11c!
patriots, as has already taken place in po
litics. The Univerlity of Paris is threa
tened, as the engine of the delpotic kings o
France, and the mother of abomination a
mong them—" "V es (fay they) thou pom
pous daughter of royalty I yet a little tims
nd thou shall be levelled with the dull,
bate inllrument yf the monstrous domina
tion from which we have escaped 1 Yet a
little time and the fliarp blade of reforma
tion lhall revenge the -eatife of affronted
Reafoh, by tumbling fr< m its elevation the
enormous cololfus which has been elected
upon ignorance and prejudice—Great in
deed would be our folly, if after railing the
noble edifice of freedom and equality, we
left fuceeding generations to imbibe the
principles of slavery, and teachers to edu
cate m the principles of Spartan aulterity.
pupils who would ligh for the golden chains
of Perfepolis and the enveflomed cup of
the whore of Babylon !"
In the Virginia Centinel of the firft inft.
ispublifhed a lift of th{ murdersanddepre
dations lately committed by thefavages in
Mero diftrift, from the iSth to the 26th
of January last, eleven killed and seven
wounded—and a confiderafcle number of
horfesftolen. ''
[From a Correspondent.]
British habits, British affeSions, ideas, at
tachments, prejudices, and even resent
ments have vegetated rapidly in this coun
try since the late war. No better evidence
of this truth is wanting than the torrent ol
abuse daily pcured forth from many of the
American presses by the vile tools of Bri
tilh miniflerialifm and British king-won
fhippers against the republicans and patriots
of France, ant! the ea«fe, which America,
at leait, irom her own recent fufferings,
ought to cfteetn the caufeof human nature.
It tile enlightened citizens os-America
know how \ enerate the French, and'would
not be eonlidered in Europe and by every
confident character here us degenerate
from the manly principles of 1776, they
will turn with' abhorrence from the men,
who by the aid of the press are endeavour
ing to prejudice the community cjainlt
France, and td excite the sympathy of. th<;
public in favour of royalty, eternally ex
tirpated aj it is from this country, anil
from the hearts of all true Americans.
It appears from theßoftcn papers, that
the head and horns of t!ie Ox (which was
facrifited for the proceflion in commemo
ration of the French successes, and whose
head and horns were afterwards expuled
011 the liberty pole) were, upon the news
ol Louis the i6ths' death, decorated with
black crape and ribbands, to honour the
memory of the departed monarch, and to
express the chagrin of a baml of royalists
in Boston, becanfe the kingofFrailce could
not conquer his A writer ill one
of their papers enquires, whether an ox : s
head and horns in mourning is not a novel
mode of paying refpe3 to an unfortunate
monarch, and whether " it is not a fly hint
that the poor man w as cornuted
At the late election in Boston, John
Hancock had 1124 votes, Ilb ridge Gerry
34 and Francis Dana Ij, for governor..—.
For lieut. governor, Samuel Adams had
1 171. For federal representative, Bcnjamlrt
Aultin, Jun. had 770, Samuel Holten 566 ;
Returns lrom 29 tow ns in the fame diftrici
gave Sainucl Holten 2183 Votes and JJenja
min Auiiin, jtin. 1383.
Extract of a lettei from Belfaft, dated Jan.
2j, to a gentleman 111 this city.
" The firft volunteer company of this
town, and eldest in the kingdom, have em-*
bodied themselves into a regiment, conlift*
ng of upwards of 500 men ; their uniform
s green faced with yellow, with leather*
:ap.,. The military quartered here is
augmented to one regiment of foot, two
rroops of horse, artillery, &c. in (hurt, the
whole kingdom are in arms ; twenty vol
unteers for one there was at the time of
he late American war. 11 seems, the flams
yf liberty is spreading fait throughout tlitf
tingdom."
PRICE OF STOCKS.
Six Per Cents J7/4
Three Per Cents jq/
Deferred fo y(j
Bank of the United States 9 yr. c.
JUST PUBLISHED —
(Price three fixteentbs of a doiar.
And to be had at the Bo< k store 0 f
JOHN M'CULLOCH,
No. 1, N. 3d &treru ana « f
THOMAS DOBSON,
No. 41 South Second Street,
And of other Booksellers in th s citv.
An EXAMINATION,
Us the late Proceedings in Con*iefs refpedi- g '
OFFICIAL CONDUCT
Of the Seueiary 0/ the Treafufy.
AJEW BOOKS.
ROBERT CAMPBELL.
N 54, iouth Second Mrter,
Has received b\ the Shi-. George Barclay
A large ajfortmttit of BOOKS,
An org which are,
V iner s Abridgment of Law and Equity, it
vols.
N. B. Subfcriptiotis are receive* fc tie alive
idorii a: 4 Do'lars per Volume, 4 Volumes <wi lbe
received every fx months till the work is con>plcteit,
whi-h 'will hem the course of eighteen months.
Crpkt's Reports, 4 vols.
Lord Ra\mond's Reports, 3 vols.
Vattel's Law of Nations
C myn's 6 v6ls
Guthries Geography, a new edition in 410*
tfi'h elegant colcuicd maps.
Boyer's French and English Dictionary in 4 Sc
3 v .
Hume's Ylirtory of England, 8 voUa-Same
book with Suioilei'e continuation, 13 vols, eie
iantly gilt.
Mofhtim's Ecclefiaftlcal Hiftorv,6 vols.
Gibbon's Roman Htfiory/ia vJs. 0 /
plan
Ntcker on Executive PoWer, 2 vols.
Hiitory of ancient Europe, 2 vols
Lavaterof Phyfiognortn abiidged
Large Family Bible wi h cgts.
ChapcaiTs Chenitflry, 3 vols
Munro's do. 4 vols.
Underw«oJ on Children, 2 vcls.
Clarke on the dileiri-cs .common in long voya*
fjes, 2 vols.
on Fevers,
Metherby's new Medical Dictionary*
Gaidner on the Gour.
Pott's Chirurgical "Walks, 3 vols.
N itholfon's Clietniftry.
Lee on Botany*
W'hiic on Ihe <iife.afe> cf Ljing.in
Ac. &c.
83* R. C. Will rrceive by the arrival of fh a
fijft veflji frc m Dublin and Glafgnw, a large JOJ
dition to his piefent rxten!i*e afibriment of book*
amon 6 (l which will tt copSt: cf ail ihe nrw FVb
lication* of n;Cilt.
April 13. saw. ti?7LAST WILL and TESTAMENT*
of LOUIS the XVI. written by hiw
feff.
From a London paper.~\
JN the name of the holy trinity, the
father, the son, and the holy ghod.
this day the 21ft of December, 1792,1
Louis the XVI, of the name, king of
France, having been for more than four
months imprisoned with my family in the
tower of the temple at Paris, by those
who were my fubjefls, and deprived of all
communication whatloever, ever since the
I ith instant, with my own family; more
over, being implicated in a trial of which
it is impossible to forefee the ifTue, 011 ac
count of the paflions of men, and for
which no pretext or means can be found
in any txiding law ; having only God
for the witnefa of my thoughts, and to
whom J can address myfelf, I here declaie,
in his presence, my last will and senti
ments : •
" I leave my f6ul to God, my creator,
I pray him to receive it in mercy, and not
tojudge it according to its deserts, but
according to those of our Lord Jelus
Chriit, who offered himfelf a facrifice to
Cod his Father, for us men, however un
worthy, and for me the mod unworthy.
I die in the union of our mother the Ca
tholic, Apollolic, and Roman church,
who holds her powers by an uninterrupt
ed fucccffion from St. Peter, to whom Je
fu» Chrid entruded them I firmly be
lieve and acknowledge every thing con
tained in the commandments of God and
the church, the lacraments and myderies,
such as the church teaches, and hath al
ways taught them ; I have never preten
ded to make myfelf a judge of the differ
ent modes of explaining the dogmas which
divide the church of Jesus Chrid, but I
have conformed, and will always conform,
if God grants me life, to the decisions
which the highed Ecclesiastics of the
holy Catholic church give, and (hall give,
conformably to the discipline of the
church followed since Jesus Chrid. Ila
ment with my hear-, our brethren who
may be in error ; but I pretend not to
judge them, and I love them no less in Je
sus Chrid, according to what Christian
charity teac'ies US. I pray God to par
don all my fins ; I have endeavoured to
know them scrupulously, to deted them,
and to humble myfelf in his prcfe ce.—
Not being able to avail myfelf if the mi
nidry of a Catholic pried, I pray God to
receive the confeffton which I have-made,
and above all my profound repentance for
having put my name, (though it was a
gainll my will) to afls which may be
contrary to the dif ipline and belief of
the Catholic church, to which I have al
ways remained f.ncer.ly united in heart ;
I pray God to accpt of my firm refoluti
on, if he grant me life, to make use as
soon as I can of the minidrv of a Catho
lic plied, to confefs myfelf of all my fins,
and .0 receive the sacrament of repentance;
I request all th fe whom I have offended
thro' inadvertence, for I do not recollect
having knowingly offended any one, or
those to whom I may have given bad
example orfandal, to forgive me the evil
which they think I have done them.
" I intrrat all charitable persons to join
their prayers with mine, to obtain of God
the pardon of my fins.
" I forgive, wiih all my heart, those
who have tnade theinfelves my enemies
without my having given them any cause ;
and I pray God to forgive them, as well
as those who, through a falfe or mistaken
zeal, have done me much evil.
" 1 recommend to God, my wife, my
children, my fider, my aunts, my brothers,
and all those who are attached to me by
the ties of blood, or in any other manner
whatsoever. I pray God particularly to
look with the eyes 0/ mercy on my wife,
my children, and my filler, who have
long been the partners of my fufferings ;
to fudain them by his grace, if they (hould
lose me ; and as long as they remain in
this perilhable world. I recommend to
her, above all, to make them good cliridi
ans, and honed members of society ; to
mak them conlider the grandeurs of this
world, if they are condemned to prove
them, but, as things dangerous and pelifh
able, and to turn their views towards the
only and solid glory of eternity. I re
qiicd my lifter to continue her teSdernefs
to my children, and to be a mother to
* The 'Will ivas read before the Br'it'ifli House
of Commons on the ziji cf 'January, the day of
the execution of Lcuis the ibth.
tlicm, if they fl.onld have the misfortune
to lose their own.
" I entreat rny wife to forgive me all
the evils which (lie iuffers on my account,
and the untafinefs which I may have cau
sed her in the course of our union ; as (he
may be allured, that I remember nothing
againll her, if (he thinks Die lia's any thing
to reproach herfclf with.
" I earnedly recommend to my chil
dren, next to their duty to God, which
thev ought to prefer to every tiling, to
maintain mutual union, fubmifiion and
obedience to their mother, and gratitude
for all the cares which file incurs for them,
and in memory of me.
" I entreat them to conCder my filler
as a second mother. I recommend to my
son, if he fhonld have the misfortune to
become king, to tliink that he owes him
felf entirely to the good of his fellow-citi
zens ; that he ought to forget all hatred
and all resentment, and especially whatever
relates to the misfortun s and uneafincfs
which I experience; that he cannot pro
mote the good of the public but by reign
ing according to the laws; but, at the
fame time, that a king cannot make the
laws rf fpefted, and do the good he wishes,
but in proportion as he has the necessary
authority ; and that, without this, being
fettered 111 his operations, and ir.lpiring 110
refpett, lie is more injurious than ufeful.
I recommend to my son to take care of all
the perf-ns who were attached to me, as
far as his circumdances (hall give him the
means ; to th ink that this is a sacred debt
which I have contra&ed to the children or
relations of those who have died for me,
and next, to those who arc unfortunate 011
my account. 1 know that there are many
persons of those who were attached to me,
who have not conduced thtmfelves to
wards me as they ought, and who have
even shewn me ingratitude ; but I forgive
them (often, in the moments of trouble
and effervefcence, a man is not master of
himfelf;) and I entreat my son, ifhe thould
have the opportunity, to remember only
their misfortunes. I could wish to be able
to tedify my gratitude to those who have
dilplayed a true and diflnterefted attach
meiit to me. On the one hand, if I was
fcnfibly ast eft ed by the ingratitude and dis
loyal y of persons to whom I had never
(hewn any thing but favour to them, their
relations, or friends ; on the other, I have
had the consolation of feeing the volun
tary attachment and interest which many
persons have shewn to me. I entreat
them to accept of my thanks ; in the sitU
ation in which things still are, I (hould be
afraid of bringing them into danger, if ]
were to speak more explicitly ; but 1 re
commend particularly to my son to seek
all occasions of discovering them.
" I should nevertheless, think that I
calumniated the sentiments of the nation
did I not openly recommend to my son
M V. de Chamilly and Hu, whose true
attachment to me induced them to (hut
themselves up with me in thu mournful
residence, and who were near being the
unhappy vi&ims of what they did. I alio
recommend to him Cleri, with whose at
tention I have had every reason to be fatis
lied since he has been with me. As it is
he who has remained with me to the lad,
I requell M. M. of the Commune, to de
liver to him my clothes, my books, my
watch, my purse, and the other little ef
fects which have been deposited at the
Council of the Commons.
" I also mod willingly forgive those who
guarded me, the ill treatment and severity
which they thought it their duty to make
me fuffer. I have found some feeling and t
companionate fouls ; may they enjoy the
tranquility of heart, which ought to spring
from their manner of thinking.
" I entreat M M. de Malelherbes,
Tronchet, and Defeze, to receive here my
thanks, and the expression of my sensibili
ty, for all the care and all the pain which
they took for me.
" I conclude by declaring, before God,
and as I am ready to appear before him,
that I reproach myfelf with none of the
crimes which are alledged to me,
" Done, in duplicate, at the Tower of
the Temple, December 25, 1^92.
(Signed)' « LOUIS."
( \ True Copy)
BAUDRAIS, Municipal Officer.
AFRICAN CHURCH.
On Tuesday the ?d indant, the Cor
ner Stone of the AFRICAN CHURCH
was laid in Fifth Stieet, between Walnut
and i>piuce Streets, by four of the mem
bers of the church.— One of them after
wards kneeled down upon the stone and
prayed in a fervent manner for the success
and ufefulnefs of the undertaking.
This church will be forty-fix feet in
front, and sixty in depth. It has been be
gun by private subscriptions from a num
ber, and by a loan from one of the citi
zens of Philadelphia.
Should these resources prove infafficient
to complete the building, it is to be hoped,
further contributions will not be withheld
by a people who have been celebrated in
dillant countries.for originating plans, not
only for emancipating, but for improving
the condition of the opprcfled bhcks.
There are at present, nearly 5000 Af
ricans and descendants of Africans in this
city.—From the natural attraction which
persons related to each other by sameness
of color, country, and above all, misfor
tune, have for each other, there can be no
doubt but these people will be belter ta
ken care of in religious inttitutiotss, con
ducted by themselves, than by persons
who are not related to them by the fame
peculiar and forcible obligations.
GUILLO 11NE.
The following is a difcription of the
fatal machine by which the late king of
t ranee suss, red, and which takes its name
from that of the person who brought it
into nfe, (Guillotine.)
It i» in form of a painter's E fel, j- and
about ten feet high ; at four feet from
the bottom is a cross bar, oil which the
fulfcrer lays his head, which is kept down
by another bar placed above. In the in
ner edges of the frame are grooves, in
which is placed a Iharp axe, with a vast
weight of lead, fupporud at the fuminit
by a peg, to which is fattened a cord,
which the executioner cutting, the aie
falls, and beheads the -prisoner. The fuf
ferer is lirlt tied to a plank, of about 18
inches broad and an inch thick, Handing
upright, fattened with cords about the.
arms, belly and legs , this plank is about
four feet long, and comes almolt up to
the chin ; the executioner then lays him
on his belly on the bench, lifts up the up
per part of the board, which receives hit
netk, adjulls his head, then (huts the
board, and pulls the firing fattened to the
peg, at the top of the machine, which
lifts up a catch. The axe falls' down, and
the head, which is off in a moment, is re
ceived in a ba(ket ready for the purpose,
as is the body in another basket.
f A wooden frtme, on which they nail can
vas, &c. that ii to be painted,
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATION*.
April '793-
D. a Bar. The,. Pr.nl. [Weather.
Tuesday, 2. 6 30. 25 47 S. W. lair.
3 30. n 71 Hi. do
IVednejday, 3. . 30 1 56 ta ,n, 1 u , r .
30. tt, 7S E. j do.
Thurjday, 4. t 30. 2 51 .t. CUiudy.
% M 7 2 K. Fair.
Friday, 5 . 6 3c. 5 53 S. E. 'Cloudy,
3 3 C - c 61 dr>. \P.ain.
Saturday, 6. 1 29. gl bo :.,lm.
1, 76 W. \fair
Sunday, 7. c 29. 9 51 V. W. If air
3 '5 W. ( do.
Monday, '8. ( 30. 1; 46 IN. w j Fair,
3) 30. 1 74 ,S. W. I d>.
Harrijburgh Mail Stage.
START!? every Wednesday fmm Mr. Henry
Epply's in race flrret, between third and
fuurth ftrerts, and arrives at Harrifburgh on the
Saturday morning following—Starts Itom Mr.
Crabb's, innkeeper, Hairilburgh, on Monday
and arrives on Wednesday at Philadelphia.—
N. B. The Reading (Vage starts from Reading,
at John Witman's, innkeeper, on Monday, and
arrives at Philadelphia on Tuesday morning—
I hen starts from Philadelphia on Friday morn
ing at 4 o'clock, and arrives at Reading on Sa
turday morning. The greatest caYe and attenti
on /hall be paid by the publics' humble servant.
WILLIAM COLEMAN.
N. B. A light stage upon springs, wiih two
horses, or without horfea, with complete geers,
may be had at any moments* warning, for the
accommodation of ladies and genvlcmen, by ap j
plying to the above named Wm. Coleman, livin. !
in the borough of Reading.
WAS LOS T,
YESTERDAY on the York rnad, betwijit
Philadelphia and the Crooked-Billet, >
BUND, from Haac Lewis, to the fobferiber, si t
the sum of two hundred pounds, payable the fird
of Apiil 1793. —Any person finding the fame,
snd delivering it to John Moore, El"<j. Jenkin
rrwn, William M'Callj, Abingdon, Thomas
Hiugh, at the Croekrd-Billet, or to the fubfcri
ber, (hall ba liindfjmely rewarded.
JOSEPH HART.
Apnl », 1793. 3 t, av ,
To those Concerned in MILLS in lie
United States.
QLIVER EVANS, late of the slate of
Delau arc, informs the public, that he
has removed to Philadelphia, No. 437,
North Second-ttreet, where he will thank
fully receive any applications for the ufeof
his Patent Improvements on Mills, and the
art of manufacturing flour. He will fur
nifh those who are not fufficiently acquain
ted with the principles of his improve
ments, with drawings and descriptions,
that will enablj them to erett all the
different machines necessary to perform the
operations of cleaning, grinding, boulting
auil of boulting over the middlings or coarse
meal, and grinding it over with the grain,
(o as to liniih all together, thereby making
the greateii quantity of fuperfine flour that
the gram will produce atone operation.—
u ec,) l t expense in collecting,
the different and inoft approved conitruc
tions of mills and plans for boulting, and
tile quality, lize, & manner of dreiling the
mulitoncs, suitable to the power of the
mill and quality of the grain : & will afixft„
in planning mills from the foundation,and
make dro w ings thereof, if required. He
has for sale, boulting cloths and mill-stones
ol the firft quality, at the lowelt prices,
w inch he w ill w arrant. If the Aones prove
iioi good, they will be received again and
the coil ol carnage paid Those who ap
ply lor either ft one* or cloths, will please
to mention the power of the mill, size of
the boulting els, quality of the grain,
and oil what buiinefs it is to run. Orders
by post, or other wife, will be as punctually
attended to as if the parties were present.
•Apiil 10. iaw
1 hiladelph la, January 12, 17QZ.
M ATHEW CAREY
Refpectfully inlorms tbe Citizens of the
United States, that the Maps for his
intended edition of
Guthrie's Geography
improved,
Arc now engraving—and as soon as a fufficient
number 0/ them are finished, to secure a regular
supply during tlie publication,which will proba
bly be early next Spring, the woik will be put
to press.
He returns his acknowledgments to the very
refpeflable number of fubfci ibers, who have come
forward thus earl.v to patronize this arduous un
dertaking. He allures them and the public in
general, that no pain? or expence fliall be spared in
the execution of the woik.
Terms of tbe Work :
I. I T /hall be published in 48 weekly num
bers, each containing three flitets, or twenty.four
pages, ot letter prcls, in quarto, printed with new
types on fine paper.
11. In the course of the work will be delivered
about thirty large maps, of the fame size as those
in the European editions, viz. 010 ft of them /heec
maps on oft p?per.
fcj" K'fAri ,tr n,p, in the Briti/h Edition,
ibis work w: I contain r.ir.t or ten Stmc.icar. Statu
Maps.
IJI. The price of tach Dumber will De a quan
cer dollar, to be paid on delivery.
CCi 1 "' Ac advance required.
IV. Subscriber# who disapprove of th>- work
on the publication.of the three firft numh.rs, ~'c
t> be a: liberty to return them, and (hall li a » e
their money re t - a:J.
V. The fubfcriW names/Hall be prefixed as
patrons of ihe undertaking.
%* Subscriptions received in Philadelphia by
the intended publifber j in New-York, by all the
bookfellersj in New-Have*, by M . Beers: in
HaitfoiJ, by M,. Patten ; in fcoitoif, by Mefc
Ibomasand Andrews, and b\ Mr. Weft - ir
Baltimore, by Mr. Rice } in Richmond, by'fj.r.
]. Carey ; in Charleston, b> Mr, W. P. Youi.g,
and b> sundry other persons throughout the Uj»i-
States. t.f.ja.w.
I Have claims to about two hundred und
fifty thou (and acres of LAND in the ftateof
Kenfuckey, in different parts of that country,
foir.eof which 1 know to be equal to any ; all
of which J am inclined to dispose of, either by
entire sale, or by admitting one, or two partners,
to whom the agency on the whole wili be cr-xn
mitted.
One fourth of the contrast will be required ia
h?nd, either in cash, merchandise, or such affect
as may be converted to aftire use, the residue
may be apportioned in convenient inftalmcnts.
The pure hate is to give security, on the land,
or otherways,as suits them.
Knowing that there is a prejudice againfl the
eitles of land in that state, which is more general
than just, Jam willing to stipulate in the con
trad}, that a discount, cr mall be
made, where any land may be loft, by reason of a,
defective title.
Any person inclining to such a purchase, is re
queued to write to me by post, in answer t*
whom, more particular information will he given.
HENRY BANKS.
Richmond March 20, 1793* 2a w tf.
transactions 1
j Of the Society instituted in the State of
New-York, for t/ie promotion of
AGRICULTURE, ARTS, untl MANUi
FACTURES,
May be had at tliis Office.
[Price HALF a dollar.l
Jan. 5.
PRINTED BY
CHI LD S and SW A 151 E,
AT THE Ik OFFICE N0.209, Hir.H-STRJ.ST,
NEAR FIFTH-STKIET,
T K 1 L A D F. I F B J A 1