By p. FRENEAU: (at No. 209, Market Street) Publijhci Wednesdays and Saturdays, [Three Dollars per annum.']
Numb. 66 of Vol. ll.] S A T U R D A Y,. June 15, 1793.
For the National Gazette.
Mr. Freneau,
j T would be to the advantage of the Unr
ted States it" there was not a newspaper
in it, for t!i:v are the vehicles of sedition,
wilt ;:rt til-.' llie illi of exciting jealoulyin
the minds of the people and diltniit of the
infallibility of their rulers. They have
tee.ne.l lately with criticisms on the pro
clamation of the Preiidetlt, which was evi
dently deli/.ned for go«d purposes, to warn
t!ic ;)'<)j;! people ot America th ic the lt.ite
of' France \v.«H critical, that they fliouM
have nothing to do with her, that treaties
•were those »f inttreft an 1 not or faith, anil
that if the citizens interfered they mould
be put to the bar of the government. Nu
difpalßonate mail could take ex.eep.ion at
this intention. Although the proclamati
on was irtued immediately after the c.eua
jration of war by France againit Gre.it
Britain, it is evident that there was a go
vernmcntal I like wrmnefs before,aid inat
lje imprudence of France in not l ubniittin ll
tj t!)e ditlator/llip of Great Britain, ha
produced a ftiil greater coldness Surely
every one niuit allow that the connection
between America and France is a very un
natural one, considered in every point of
view, and that therefore the executive was
highly to by commended tor taking the
eirliell opportunity to make ic appear.
The French have a diltinA 'language, the
execu rive in general do not speak : rench,a
coa.ieftion therefore between them and
Frenchmen mult be unnatural. Our man
ners, cuitoins, habits, have aßrltifii etymo
logy, and as there is no nation in thf
world, nay I would fay in the creation
tha: can possibly compare with them in an)
t'ling that is great and wonderful, no won
der that we Ihould give them a preference;
I: is a compliment paid to ou f.-lves.—
There 13 a considerable analogy between
the governments and leading ine:) of the
two countries, as well as of their iyllems.
ihefe would naturally incline n that way
as birds of a feather flock tnget/ier—there i:
a congeniality of sentiment between Aims
influential ■men here and there, a politica
affection, and as they have the fame object:
in view, a connection is quire natural —
With France the thing is otherwise—the
dregs of society, the people, wifli to posses:
the fovereignty —Tuis is unnatural anc
therefore cannot beget the afFection of on.
government —In France diltinetions arc
abolilhed ; even the niolf trifling pageantr)
of monarchy or ariltocracy i 3 abolished
and therefore it does not harmonize with
the men of our gover .menr—l n France
merit begets confidence and trull, her<
money is the high road to confluence ant
power, how unnatural therefore mult b<
such a connection —In short, altho' the pea
pie may correspond in their principles ant
their willies, there u such a dilcordanct
in the governments, that a connection can
not pofiibly fubiift—lt might be fuppofec
that the late war between America ani
Great Britain, had alienated every favour
able impredion ; but this has only obtainet
among the vulvar, who are more difpofe<
to resent injuries, and keep alive enmity
than men of better condition —The wif
men of this country, by which is under
flood, the men in office, are not under thf
influence of such narrow considerations,
they love Great Britain, becaufc she fa
vours their views, they detelt France be
cause (lie i« hostile to them—How judici
ous, how wife was the proclamation 1
It is a blefled circumltance for the Uni
ted States, to keep at peace with Great
Britain, for without it, we fuould have no
.loathes to wear —nakedness and barbar
ism would be seen (talking thro'the land—
JJ"he manufa£tnres and literature of France
V are a bagatelle in the scale with Great Bri
tain's—An Englilhman can tight three
Frenchmen, and by the fame rule he can
make better cloth, and better ideas—How
politic is our government to cringe to the
Britiih lion, as well as to the BririQi Mi
uerva !
Itisanabfurd and vulgar idea which
many people entertain in this country, that
treaties ought to be held lacred—thf y are
things of convenience, and as soon as they
answer the purpose. they arc to be laid
aside, as a man would lay afitlj his breeches
when he had no further life for them—the
treaty with France, was a thing of necefii
ly with us, and as it was the effect of force,
it ought not to be binding —The proclama
tion has wifely declared this.
An error has crept into our confiitution
that treaties fliould have the force of law,
but this constitutional prortfion is very pro
prrly superseded hy proclamation ; for ac
cording to ir, have two men been arretted
for acting according to treaty, and agaiiilt
proclamation—The Cayenne republicans
censure this actui arbitrary, and fay that
the proclamation was au infringement ol
law, and not the conduct of the volunteers,
for independent of the treaty they were
freemen, aud not {laves obliged to obey
the mandates ol" a Jovereign —But this it
all fluff; lor their aiTeit i?j approved of by
the Britijli influence, which is muchgreat
erthan every other influence put together
[t :j »tl J direct the muttons of government',
the spirit ol the proclamation declares u
to be fubjeits, and no fubjett seas a right ti
trespass upon the edicts of fovereijnty;
How just then is the prosecution, ho w jult,
how leg a 1 the proclamation ! Upon the
whole, sir, in whatever light I place the
conduct of governmental men, and in what
ever light 1 view the conduct of men who
illlethemfelves republicans, jour "OA;
Soldiers. vourßr. tuJes,and your Verita
ret.'''' 1 find much to commend, and much
to censure and abominate.
JOHN BULL.
June ii, 1793.
[Rcpubli'hedby requeff, from the Ame
rican Lailv Advertiser of June
10]
To the Author of the letters to the Presi
dent of the Uuitcd States, under the sig
nature of VEIU T A 5.
S I R,
VT7HF.N a citizen undertakes to remark
on the public conduct of government
nr it's officers, every poflible attention
Ihould be given to the as v eil to
juard againrt the encroaciiments of their
.lower, and difcoverthe errors they may
have committed, as to prevent improper
ideas being entertained igainft them ; for
3s much evil may arise from rendering a
jood adminiflration unpopular and odious,
us is to be feared by an enlightened and vi
llain people from a bad one. The lor
:ner, overturned, makes a change of fylteni
and coiiduct neceflary, which mult be for
:'ie worse, while a discovery of the latter
rnuft always tend to better it by amending
what was faulty.
I am led to this reflection by your twe
letters under the lignature of Veritas ir.
the National Gazette, ol the iff and jthoi
]une. addrelled to the President of the
United States, oil the fnbject of his pro
clamation concerning the neutrality of the
Union in the war now raging in Europe.
You have in a file and manner of some
what more tlia:i individual importance,
undertaken to censure the Preiident for
:iie opinions contained in the proclamation,
<ml have boldly pronounced, " that the
ritiiens of these Hates from one extremity
if the Union to the other, are firmly at
tached to the cause of France," and the
inly apparent tendency of both your let
:»rs is to intimidate the executive intc
"nmc ait that lhall infringe the neutrality
>f our nation, and involve us in a war 011
thelkleof France againfl all Europe.—
One of the advantages laid down by moll
writers in favour of a republican farm ol
government is, that it is flower to wrath
ind to war than a monarchy : that the
jood sense of the community at large will
:ertainly "set down aud count the coll"
Defore it engages in hostility : that i«,it will
"ee whetht r the objett ii worthy of the ter
ible conferences which always ensue
when the bonds of friendlhip between nati
ons are broken asunder, and the citizen:
educed, as to each ether, to a Urate ofna
mre ; wherein thegreateft muiderer,plnn
tlerer & delli oyer of lifr& property is some
times fallely honored with the greatefl
You, however, would fain have us
chink you are a republican,not withllanding
the evident tendency of ynur letters is foi
war, and you are not contented with gi
"ing your own opinion 03 the subject but
fay it is the decided opinion of the Union.
1 suppose you to be a private citizen, ami
as such, you have undoubtedly a right tc
give your private opinion, and so have I.
and every other individur.l citizen; but it
becomes us. when we do it, to do it with
some little degree of rnodelty. and especi
ally when the proper officer of the govern
ment, entrulled by the conffittition to
speak the sense of the Union in the execu
tive department, had spoken that opinion
in the way that the constitution of this,
and the laws of all nations warrant, by a
proclamation conceived in terms of repub
lican decency, and when this opinion had
iscen approved in addrelles to the President
lay a number of the merchant's and traders
in tlic.- city of Philadelphia, the tow not
Baltimore, and other places where a sense
of a fm;ill p.irt at lealt of the community
one would think might be collected and
known.
Now, Sir, I have no need to call infoVid
any of the eminent qualities wlifch have
been universally allowed to the Prcftdent
whom you so fiercely dttiaunce and call on
to account to you for his proceedings ; be
came, admitting him tots no more than
you allow him to be, your fellow citizen,
and equal in character to yourfelf, his opi
nion is as much entitled to our candid re
ception and examination as your's : and a
little morefo ; because he has put his name
to it, and you have thought proper to con
ceal your's under a signature which I ;a
ther fnfpeil will be an eternal dilguife to
your real name.* There is another consi
deration, that, with modest men, would
certainly give the preference over your's,
to the PreiidenVs opinion, and that is, th;<t
jy the constitution of our government
: which I fear you will nor allow much cre
:lit to, from the tenor of your writings)
certain persons are declared to be his advi
:'jrs ; that is, he has a right to call npon
them for their opinions 0:1 any fubjeel
wherein he Hands in need of advice, and ol
ihefe, at least one, is acknowledged byyoui
warmelt pat tizans to be a true republican ;
md if I millakc rot, he 01'ficially attells the
proclamation. But, Sir, as I don't uiilito
.countenance " our executive department
n aping any abfilrd or tyrannical tyftcms"
[ have meant from the iirft to come to ar
gument with you. to difcardall declamati
on, and examine coolly the merits or de
merits of the proclamation.
Your obje£tions to the proclamation are
imply that the President has laid, it is the
" duty and interest" of the citizensof these
[lates to preierve ftritt neutrality,and-'im
parrial friendlhip to the belligerent pow
;rs"—Thefe are the expreliions on which
foil found your alarm, and \\ilh to rouse
the spirit of 1776 ! In we had enemies
to contend with, who having been accus
tomed ito govern us under what was
by them claimed to be a conflitutional au
thority, aimed to destroy our liberty and
property at one stroke, by making laws
binding on us in all cases whatsoever.—
"fhis extravagant claim was attempted to
'V enforced by myriads of hireling troops
rent i:i.'o our aountry to reduce us to fub
ection to iheir will. We refilled force by
force ; our mct;o war, pax queritur bello:
kve conquered —weob.-IJied pcace ; that
peace was solemnly ratified by triples a
jreed on between plenipotentiary mini
ters on both fides—The horrors of v. ar
:ealed, and we became friends to Britain
jpon terms advantageous perhaps to both
ides, at any rate they were to us.
I don't mean now to enter into the me
-its of thetreaty. it is fufficient for my pre
ent purpose, that a treaty of peace \\ as e
tabhlhed, ratified and confirmed, befweer
jsaud Great Britain, that similar treaties
ere, Come before and some after, ratifiec
jetwejn and the states of Holland, the
cing of Prussia, and some other powers in
Europe, molt of whom are now ::t war
.vith France—Now, Sir, you feein to be
ivhoily ignorant of the force of the term
luty, as mentioned in the Pi efident's pro
:lamatioii. There are, Sir, duties fiibJlit
ngeven between enemies at open war.—
Under the republics of Greece, captives
:;iken in war were either made (lavesfor
ife, or more humanely facriiiced to the
manes of the deceased friends of the c;:p
:ors. Under the Roman republic a milder
fyllem of national jurifpruder.ee obtained,
and their captives were only fubjecled to
1 political fpecic3 of slavery, from which
merit and talents often relieved them ; and
we find that some of the greatett men who
adorn their history, were their lihertini,
or freed men. The introduction of chris
tianity into Europe foftencd, in some de
cree, the lot of captives in war, and'many
us the severities attending it; lience, by
the common consent of modern Europe
an nations, hasrefultecl a fyltem called the
Jus belli et pneis by some, the lew of nature
nations by others ; Grotius, Puiferidorff,
Vattell and some others, have written very
learned works on these fubjefts, and tho'
they have never carricd their ideas as far as
modern treaties between some of the belli
gerent powers anil the United States have
done, yet they all acknowledge certain
things to be due from a nation at peace to
every nation at peace with it. These things
¥; Veritas, the Latin word for truth.
[Total. Numb. 170.]
are properly called duties, and whatever
comes within this description was certainly
the duty of the United States, not to Frcnce
only, but to all mankind, with whom we
were not at war: Hence the Prdider.t in
.lis proclamation very jufily made use ot"
tne exprefiion duty. j don't wilh.toavoid,
or even parry, any thing you may have to
lay on this subject, by a change of exprtf
lion. for 1 aljert (and I have a.; good a right
to aflert, as any other person has to deny)
chat it is the duty ot the United States to
avoid every ast which will offend any other
power in the world ; unless* tl.ey are
bound to do such afJ, by some solemn and
..'xpicls treaty. J hele duties include pro
tection within our bays, ports and har
bours, and in the Ureeta of our peaceful ci
ties, t. oni mutual insults to tl:e citizens or
I'ubje&s of contending powers, and an exact
and equal friendlhip and impartiality t»
jotii. ihe dignity of our government
c quit es this, and many ether ihi:ios, and
when; vera fafliou on either fide Ihallbe able?
to intimidate the federal government iiiifit,
J'i.'fuing tills line of impartiality, I li.all
:late its decline from that day. Jam very
eiiiible, and therefore (top here to lay it,
-iijC these sentiment., will, by writers of
v'onr ciafs, be called the "Buzz of the ari
iiocra.ic iew and their contemptible mini
ot peculators, lories and llritilli emif
jaiie:, i:i order toleflen their influence ;
but let such writers remember that on the
moment they (hall be able to f.lenc-e the
public voice, "by these hard names, that
moment they drftroy liberty of fpcech, li-
L>erty ci the prels, and with these every fpe
..es oi liberty. Itisvainin an anojymou*
kvi .i.r to pi etend to ardor fur the public
>ood. These sacred words may be aliamed
-iy a mail ed Cataliue ; and while I conceal
;ny real name, I pretend to no better ti~
:le to the confidence of the public than I
will allow to Veritas, that is, the weight
us argument, which our refpeflive nerfor
mancts contain. I am.rot on? of those
persons who wish to rife by others falls, bt z
anew ho would willingly rase ifpoliible, aIL
mankind to his own muderate level, with
out attempting to bring those. v.'hcm the
ultrages of, his fellow citizens have p'acecl
ibove him, down to his level : let these
.ibfer vations fuffice as to those parts of your
etters, which are meant to throw an odi
,lm on all who differ from you in opinion,
liid dare to publiih their sentiments. Ire -
urn then to the word which gi\es yon so
much offence, the word duty, I wil'h, you
iinderftood the iorie of it in regard to tie
government, nnder which xoiT enjoy li.j
.ranf«.£;.i,^i: t r.crrty of traducing it ; a li
berty, winch, J have certainly as -good
iglu to claim, in specking well of it.
[To be concluded in cur next.]
At a meeting of the inhabitants of the dif
trici jof Germantown, Koxbury, ai.J
Brillol, held on the 6th of June, the fol
lowing petition v. as drafted, to b«circu
lated thro* the above townships, and to
be prefetued to the Leg flau re of ihe
11 ate ot Peunfyivacia, ac their next feiii
on.
To tie House cf Representatives of the
(late of Penr.fylvania.
The Remonstrance p/the SU/crilcn,
Citizens cf Petinjylnania,
Rrfpet:fully Jbeweth, That
W7K have observed with great anxietv. a
Bill before the Legifluture, entitled,
•Ail ast to enable the Governor of this
Commonwealth to incorporate a company
'or making an artificial l oad, from tin,- city
>f Philadelphia to the ten mile ft one on
Chelhut-Hill, ai d from thence to North
impton county."
With legard to the general principles of
:his bill, we doubt whether the lejnliature,
?ntrufUd by the people with the gtu rdian
!,ip of tnery fijcc.es of pnbiic property,
can, confident with the powers veiled in
them,alienate the public high-v ays ior the
private emolument of individuals. Tlie pub'
lie roads w ere thought of so much in j ort
ance by the original founder of Fenniylva
nia, that they occupy the full article of the
conditions entered into between William
Penn and the adventure rs to this country,
in the jear 1681, in which article it is de
clared, that the surveyors (hall eonfider
what roads or high-ways will be necefi'ary
to the cities, tow ns, or through the lands :
greet roads from city to c.tv, not to eon-
Lain then foi tv feet in breadth ihall be
rirlt laid out, and declared to be for high
ways, t tiers ifcs dividend of tvlit• "Man. Coorag?; patriatifm, ah-T want
duplicity, are virtues, winch, in vour
. ia:ion fh*>nld rile iiiHititely sup rior to
the temerity, loyalty, autl cii:::iku,,
vh'.c i ever dHVmguifiied til-.* fateiiites oi
<ts. R'fie, and ,ive liberty to myli id.
if citizens of Europe, who, if yr.ur txtr
in are wanting, may pruonbly b.
. *.; and secure your ow i t'i eed" 11 upon
. :;u>repermanent bafts. ALCaNOji,
June jJ, i ; Vj
-
TO THE PUISI. IC.
,- \N the i ' of june. John Curwm, f'iocr
-** iir ?ntiaiit of tne" Pniladelphia .'.ml L-m
----. i'U'r Tnrti pike Road, came to my house,
d me if 1 -vas willing lie fhoul.d be--
i to form the ro.- 1 o:i my ground—l told
■ ,n :i-j—not till I'):;: agreement was made
.. i me, so that I mi : : be secure, and in
. ::i.:iiie»l for the injury I mig.it fultain by
- ouclion of n■ y propc, ■. 1 politive
y forbid him proceeding, a ' Inoultl op
poiV hini if lie did, and obilmct r • work.
He then conclude 8, he wouid watt 'ur
ther orders fmui the board of managers—
- r wi; -_-h, I heard no more from him,
1 th; . win*ii one of the ov-erfeeri
c e i.. in 'formed me, that lie wa
£<•> >gt«> "■ !, but did not i..form
if i it .-•■•inpi'-.'iej of men, wfoo
v. . work , mediately ; but,
bu .er,t i on i,uaid. in a lew mi
. ,tc< saw t..e fuperiutenda.itgoing ciiroi.gh
my ground, with a ltake on hi a lhouldei,
mid at the fame time about forty i i.'ii com
ing down tlic road, in order to meet him in
a lield below niy house. As soon as tilery
came oppoiite my house, [ Hepped t-, t!l
road, ami forbid them to enter: they ai!
halted except lix, who, went to the fujier-i
i.nemlant men ion the ground, and I feeing
them pi epai ing to ber,in tlitir op rations,
went do.vii, and puiled up thejine that was
Wretched, in order to maVk out the road.
It was tiien !i retched a fecoud : me, when
i cut it in two. This ended the d.., ute
lor the prele .t: they 1, ft the ground, and,
I am told, the main b-idy v.a-i highly cc-a
fuied aud tlire tened to be dilVharged, al
though they had no overleer to lead them
on : the ovetfeer havingdeclin .I tile d:ia
greeable service, incl:.ayed behind, a >1 tin
fuperiuteildant, bei. g.co.i ui'ed, know ;:g ;t
unjuit and ill--: I ,ai, to violently deprive a
citizen of his property, had not the a< lef
to lead them on himieif, or evd to cali
them, although they were within a lew
paces. The matter being thus fettled for
tliat day, he mounted his horle, and pro
ceeded to Philadelphia, to carry the new;
of his defeat to his molt ] Uifliint and
matters,' who, irom circuniii nice.,, -ai
to have laid apian ior a second .» t.u... 0
the morning of the Bth in'.l.int, Vaunie}
Fitlier, one of tiie managers, p dby m;
home, on ins w ay to meet tiie lujier. uend
uiit, wHo had p.cpared himi'elr with four
companies. In a ihorc time ajter, I re
ceived iniormation, that fometh :ig more
than common was to be done that day—
that ttie upper caAipanies were coiling
down. Soo l after came f'ra tcis jomifou,
a.i ither of the managers, to my huufe : we
had not been in converfatn.i long, belore
the troi j; appeared, making a very warlike
appearance, with their lhovels anil spades
exwiuied in the air: j;.tinfoil and myfeif
fell iii, and inarched to the held ot athon —
when eighty-lix men, four overseers, with
the fiiperintend nit, be?,... 1 the attack ; af
ter being baal-.d awhile, by my cutting
their line, they threw them by, and worked
by giu-fi. 1 left the li.'ld, and they finilhed
what they intended; a -,:i the loth, I
opened a mill-dam on a part of the work,
and let the plough to level the other pait.
While I am writing the Ihcrilf appears with
a fumnions, for me toanfwerfor a trespass
on my own ground. Is not this tyranny ?
is not this the mod arbitrary and unjust
violation of property and citizenfliip, t ~.t
t-verhas (toihe disgrace of America be it
f.iid!) taken place in Penufj ivania?—ior
ninety men, under (the auspices and di
re£tion of a corporation, to attack the pro
perly of an individual with force and ai ills,
in older to rescue the property out of my
hands, without trying to come to any terms,
although tiie managers were then on the
ground, or giving me the lealt fatiifaokion ?
This, my fellow-cit.ze. s, is the blessing
attendant on incorporate bodies! This is
but a sample of what we are to expect.il
men of fucli despotic principles are fuSered
to reign, and become lords and mailers ol
whatever foil tliey think will yield them
htteen or twenty per cent, when turned
into canals or turnpike roads. So great a
violation of the, property of a citizen, has
not takerrplace'under the despotic govern
ment of Great-Britain. For eighty-lix men,
attended by their mailers, and I'iipportecl
by the pretence of two of the managers of
\ the company, coming like a : i:n;:tti ct
jobbers, with a full deterni'm itieu to do as
'•they please, without offering to treat with
me.—and now I am summoned to the bar
of juflice, for averting niv .right, and em
bracing the molt fundamental part of com
mon law—that of t)ie defence of my pro
perty, or tiling it as I please. But theie is
no need to fay more ; iacts I'peak ior them
selves, and my cast is but one aniocg ma
ny ; there are others who fuller, or expeil
to fuller, the l.ofs of their property, by the
turn-pike ai.d canal.
EDWARD HESTON.
rhil.-.delphia County, jir.i'e n, 1793.
P*ii ™" nei-P ni A.
Saturday, Jwi e 15.
A Kr!ti!h (loop of war in the Wert Indies
1 u captured t. 1 e fcliooner iiegillator. o!
..i.timore, hurac .v rd bound, and another
choa.ier or ia ia I'V u'• 01 her return
lere. Rota of tiieie v fi.U were from
?ort- an- P nil e, were captured under pre
en. •of I; iiig F. etuh property un board,
iiid feat to Ja rat a
'J lie rr: ; Ire I.'Ambufeade left the Dela
.v.ire Capes on the 7th iultant. Tue next
lay ihe took theßrij; Catharine bouud from
jotnaica to Philadelphia. *"-o sooner was
.he priz' mailed and ordered lor N?w
---\ oik, when they gave chace u> a large
!hip, which upoa approaching, they found
to be a Ihip of War of two tier ot ;;un.l :
the frigate then put about and 101 l light of
her. 0.1 tiic ! temn. as the frig-itp was
(landing in lor the land, at 2.in the 11101-
iv.a l .:, two lights were dilcovered, to which
, . e chace. and when within gun U.ot,
found h ni to be two large snips at anchor,
1 to fathoms water. At live i 1 the mor
ning another large fhlp was difcoveied a
bout two leagues to -eward, tnat gave
chace to the frigate. She appeared to be
a 40 gun {hip, but the frigate being within
ten leagues of two other men of war, did
not think it prudent to engage Inr. She
then proceeded ru out, w tier,*? fht
anchored in the Nort 1 River oil Thursday
last, when flie fainted the city with lirteen
(in s, which were returned from the bat-
Another account lays, the innate
was chaced in by 2 Eitglifn hups, oue ot 40.
the other of 50 guns.
Ave'Jel is arrived at New-York in 39
days from Newry. In the Irilh channel
(lie pulled thro' a Heet of 30 fail ot Enghlli
ve He Is, with twelve regiments on board,
rle(lined to make an attack on lj.:itaun),
to favour the ariliocratic party in, France.
All the ports of the French Weft-India
islands are now open to American vessels,
as appears by adecree of the National ( 011-
ventiiui that* has been published lurou&:;out
the French Well-Indies.
A gentleman who lelc "New-York on
Monday morni -.3 la.l, gives us the follow
ing account of a recent tranfaftiou in that
ciTy : A finall vessel hr.d been within a few
weeks fitted out in the port oi New- York,
laid to be intended 0.1 a trip to Charlefion,
and not till witnia a few hours of her fail
uig dicl lii? ailiuuc the appearance ot a pri
vateer. On Saturday evening, between
the hours of 9 and 10 (he took in her giuis
and ammunition, 'the mayor beng in
formed of the circumstance, communicate*
it to tlie governor, when they both, wit!
laudable zeal, and accompanied by fonu
dicers of the peace, purfiied the vefiel
w1 a had let f-il, overtook her,and brough
her bat.:. Our informant saw her ur.de:
,Ijard, as he crofled the North River.
A conliderable numbt rot t.ie inhabitant
of the island of St. Peters, near Newfound
find, taken some weeks lince by a Brititl
iipiadron. have arrived at Boston. Thefi
unfortunate peopl ■ mean to reiide in Mai
achufetts till the forces of the 1' nglilU do
pot are driven from t lie above islands. W
are happy to add that every attention na
I been Ihewri to their comfortable accomim
dation in the patriotic capital of Malla
chufetts.
We congratulate the public 011 the fpee
(]y completion of the llib.eriptiolls to til
bank of Pennsylvania, the city having ta
ken all the ihares C2OCO) allotted to tiieu
; with an alacrity and spirit that is at once
proof of their* confidence in ihe govern
. ment which proposed the n.ea.nre, an
their own opulence who li.ne given it f
I decided a support. [Daily Paper. J
i "The prei; nt campaign will colt tl
? Englifli 1: tioil, at lead, eight millions ftei
f :g, bdidesthe loft of liies and merchai
t and bankruptcies, which lalt hai
t four months ago, taken place, to the e>
r tent of twelve millions flerling. Th
- was their own computation in March lal
- and the sum is molt likely doubled by th
, time.
y on a reasonable estimate, Britain m:
, lose, in the firlt year of the war, five liui
e dred vessels at sea. Indeed, about 1;
? were f'eized at a fingie tiroke, in tl
g french harbours. If these fix hyndn
s veftels are worth, at an average, thrc
f thousand pounds, the sum total is exact
d two mil.lolls of guineas.
if If we consider all these circumflances,
II is probable, that, in one way or the othe
d this tingle campaign will colt England thi
a ty millions flerling
s In the mean time,the minister and his i\i
- inidons are busy in telling the public,, t ]
1. one year more will end the war, : ,nd ti
tl the national debt is annually
f by ten hundred thousand pot ,r.<ls. B
f unfortunately, it requires an unconim
1 gulp of faith, to believe Either of th
h aliertions. "Lenil me tF,n guineas,
r (hall pay back one," is, a t least, not av(
.- goccl way to difchary a debt; and as
.- the French war I^.I.fmg but a firgle vc
1- it is a cafe precedent iu Eng
is hiftoi y for the in jt; i; ve centuries.
1- The war is 'jkely to lalt as long as
i- government ' jf England can borrow 11
il I.ey to fuv it." Yv'lien that refou
e fails, the problems of monarchy and
fiindir be solved together by a n«
oual convention, a revolution, ai:d a
P u! jl'.c." fDa./ iv.]
rTxtrT^TT
tionais, and other French papers.
■ Coujianii'iopie, 8. " The various
polities ot fortigu courts are here ill the
higlieit fervid a:r.vity. The ilritifh court
has at no former period hao recourse toi
fucli low and infamous intrigue with the
Divan as at prefcnt. After aii, however,
the Porte wiil be refolnte enough, and is
fuffitiently conscious ot her own ftrerigth
to emancipate herfelf from the leading
ltriu.;s of the Empress ot liui.ia, and to re
ject the influence of theßritiii) minifler. 1 he
Turks never found themselves in better
condition than at preferit. Their ioi tiheae
tions are every where repairing, a
confiderabie fleet is in preparation. The
i ircuinftances of the times only influence
Catharine lid to grant this short brtaili
of rrpofe, but let tlie times change and
the Sultan will iind her as inveterate an
eilemy as ever. The court ol Peteifbuig
will soon have an.anibaffador from hence.
He is to travel with a suite ot three hun
dred persons, and carries with him an im
inenfe number ot rich presents for the r.m
prefs and her nobility. Soon v. ill tl.c
Tnrkilh minifler be admitted into the very
ball-room, where the court of Ktiflia ex
hibited a regal feliival in honour of the
30,000 Turks slaughtered at lfm.iel
Valenciennes, -April 7. Dumourier's
camp is in a date ot r. pid dillolution. Not
an hour paflesbut f refn conipan.es or bat
talions of soldiers are coming 111 —filch is
the force of patriotic virtue. But the ty
rant Dninourier keeps up luth ,1 rigid c:i
fcipline. and has to attached the hearts of
many soldiers by his courage, his ilefperate
plans, his writings, &c. tn..t fowe remain
w :th him purely from fear, and others
from a iiliy idolizing ci char, cter, a pro
pensity that is inseparable from many in re
yard to the object that has once engaged
their esteem. There is not in l.iito:) .11
example of villainy equal to that of jJ)u
---1110111 ler. Catiline's cannot be ton.par. d
; with it. He has with him a printing preh
j and printer . by nuans ot' which lie daily
I publilhes some new proclamation, at oikc
irttidiou-, treacherous, and inic ..nt. He
| h.:d curried his villainy so far as to counter
i:eit decrees of t.'ie National Convention,
j ptiblifti tneui aifuch, long previous to hit
. I defection, and wlncli for darx purposes
j authorized jhe foidiers of ins arn.y to toiii
nnt crimes w: iek were «•.!..otis to 1! ;e ,
French cause jn.llia Belgic provinces. Jus
l a fact unden: ibie, tliji for alo i-..ie U |
> j prevented any ot the na"ional pro<.ln:n.i- j
lions, injunctions, or writings of avy kind |
1 1 from ccming to tile know 'edge ol the ... -
1 11 v ; but he proved 111 this the old adage,
? that the over-cun ling always overflioot
, themselves. He has taken fucn precautious
t that tl.ole niiferable men wlio are fiiii at j
: Wachcd to !;ini, tannot come at the truth ol j
things, or they would dejert him in an in
s ilant. It is a molt '.ncoiitellibie fact, and
- will be proved in the face ol the y.orld,
I l rat no public p ptrs whatever, ofiiaal »r
c itherwife, ha/- been allowed to re-ach the
army, while in Belgium, except Only ionK
tew that contained recitals of lecnesot de
-3 olation and blood in Pari 1 -, the unhappy
is coufequeiite of fanatical lrenzy or ovei •
•• heated patriotifni, and contlautly tending
- to feandalize .and citbafe the National
Convention, to depict them a Land ot sac
- tious hypocrites and usurpers ot lovereign
e authority, and whose only 1:m was to ad
:- vauce their own private and in
1, terells, to get some property in theii
a hand:., and then desert tne nation forever !
1- How many mournful truths are the pre
id ludes to Pumourier's defection I —to dif
-0 gull both officers and soldiers under him,
he took every poflible means to effect an ar
ic tiheial fcarcit) m the army, thatdeUrtions,
r- discontents, and difafFctllpn might enfiie.
iit In many inllances he favoured plunder on
d. the property of the inhabitants—and when
.. occalion offered v ould fvy to the pillagers,
lis -'My friends, I cannot bi'diie you, the
[1, National .Convention h*s let you the ex.-
iis ample —
/tiar/eilles, March. 55. " Unite, patri
ay ots, and keep an ev upon traitors, buth
1- are at this moment in the enemy's service.
;o The country is. in danger !—May he perilh
:ie who remains indifferent to the danger that
sd threatens Rouse.citizens, in the name 01'
ee all that i j tlear. Now is the time to vin
ly d.cate "your freedom, or die. him
who ( s unaiile to render perfonalfervice pay
it for aie thingto liim that can march agamK
T , \ne enemy. Opulence itltlf mult not now
make voluntary gifts, but confidcr its con
tributions as a debt due to nature tiid to
yr- man. A moment of llecp is now tl.e fluni
hat ber of death, and repose will be the ruin
fiat of all we hold dear in this life- Ihe go
-1 jir vernmcnt of Prance well knows the
Ut' of the nation : they have counted well up
ton on itsftrength—Let the nation but stretch
,fe forth its arm, and Liberty triumphs, and
d I tyrants are prostrated in the iluft. —O you .
cry who live in indolence, ar.d in the bosom of
foi wealth—the molt urgent neccllity now de
ar. mands your aid * yourliipertli.xofwealr.il
lifli i 3 the property of your country you chat
live in abundance, who in, the multiplicity
the of your domeitic:, rob tire earth of (aboreis
no anil your coun.ry of defenders—-depn\e us
ice no longer of a share of your firength. Great
of dangers require great aid, and when your
4 ti- brethren are in distress, only heart's of iron
re- can refufe it. Hut to the Yeomanry ol
the foil "do we chiefly ; v u:;lve- ;
— 1 ——■ ■
you alone, are the people that have f yid
Liberty—tl;c common n. oilier of nu r, the
earth on which we dwell, now for
your exertion.. Lay cfide all anißKfay,
ail party spirit, and only be ai"/,)y al
wretches v. ho are betraying you, ; rid try
ing to enslave you. tly to the trciitiers,
for it is to you. principally, that lilt 11 y mult
owe her fafety. Let all luxuries be laid
aliele, let the patriotic altars be covered
with your gift;, or rather the payment as
your debts.-Paris .vd Marseilles have more
than once saved their country. —1 he eyes
of the world are ftiil upon Paris and Mar
seilles, to Ihew what exertions France can
make againll the prefiure of tyrants. —X>o
more delay—no more rctieitions ; the hour
of battle is come : the exillence ofli eedoin
is menaced; traitors surround us and are a
moiig us, and the death of liberty is perpt -
trating—but let unanimity prevail ai el all
is late. —Evil be: to 1 him whoi'e cars :ire
deal to the cries of his country 1"
[From the Fayetteville Gazette.]
The United States having offered nil
asylum to the oppreli'ed and fuffering in
habitants of Europe, it may perhaps be .1
queltion, whether this liberal aj el humane
offer, without foine qualifying laws, may
not be a means of injuring our fine citizen
As emigrants experience the benefit c.f i r.r
protection, and have guarantied by the li
berality of our laws, their property, aial
whatever advantage can arile from the ex
ertion of their talents ; allegiance, r.nd-a.
("acred reverence for' tliel'e laws e i ght to
follow : But.unhappily for our country,in
grates intrude among us, who, with pa -
tional prejudices, a love of monarchies art!
kings, dared, oil the intelligence of the ex
ecution of Louis XVI, [by a judgment <-f
the National Convention, which lor jullitf
has not been exceeded lince the days of
Moses, that great Lcg'flator] they have
dared to atraign the jvillice of our magna
nimous allies. Siith characters are netwcl
tometo this land of freedom, and are un
■ilcaCant to the cit /ens of ti efe (tales; as
ay fcve'reful.erin; . ii.u..h b'.ood and trea
"ure, they know now to appreciate th-c
ovcfnnient which holds to view every
privilege and blc (hug that a Tree government
.an rationally e jey.
'fen years have pared avvav (ince the
leacewith < ivat-3r.ritr.in, in which I pace I*
ive nave Cefcn tne uniform illiberal policy
jf her government, to embarrafsour tract,
: jure and nnpeele cur growing greatrci'%
which her imperious defpotifni makes ur,
me! all the commercial world exrri .ence ;
:.. ugh the-trade carried on with ihcie„
iiates is 1: own to be but little iii< rt of a
nil',ion fierli ;,inher favor, and everyway
111 dvailtage oil., to America.This superior!-.
:y has been eiTc.cd d by fraud and pow crier
nfati.-ble thirll for old does not pernii. he r
.o be quiet.—For the interference of Loni.
XIV,' in favour of James 11, in the hit
ent.urv, file denounced the greased, violr
ion oi the law sos nations. Immunity and
Cilice ; and expended nearly one hundred
millions to wrcakhcr vengeance on I ranee,
.lie now avows the canle of tyrants, and ill
. lion with them is making attempts oil
hat Republic, the molt execrable anc-1 tv
arinic ever .made cm freemen.
'lhefignal victories gained by Fiance ill
rheir late campaigns, has afforded the citi
i:us of these liates the utmoll joy and fa
:r faction. Our cncreafing re,..nries for
:rade and commerce must perpetuate the
jlliance ; die hoJds to view , aii'a republic,
,-veiv advantage, by a reciprocity of inte
;■ efts', that mult accelerate our prosperity
jnel happinecfs. —It must excite our indig
nation'' that Great-Brita.n . or.ld ciaie
;o dictate to the French Republic—though
her power may liipe rleele the laws ot rea
son. humanity and jitdice, it cannot ccn
! train the laws of nature; nor is it bareiiy
polnble to conquer men determined to be
free. Gratitude for Cervices the most im
portant rendered the United Slates in e.if
:refs, and that natural tie which cenKnts
Republics; will not, it is preCumed, permit
ustoCee, with impunity, her dedruflipn,
which is the obvious intention of the com
bined tyrants of Europe.
\\ e have nothing to fear from Britain,
who, diftraaed Ly parties, iminenlVly in
debt, her coriHitutiOn corrupt, Ireland in ;i
ferment, and arming in part from internal
fear; her tender mercies ve have already
experimentally felt, and our citizens oil
the frontiers are weltering in their blood
fneel by the savage allies fcf England, who
unmindful of treaties, have armed the fe la
vages with the fearing knife and toma
hawk. —The prodigious wealth which
Great-Britain boafts'ol, Is well known to
be a moveable property. America, how c -
ever young as a nation, can furnilh mate
materials, in conjunction with France, a.
will transfer a gi eat proportion of theie
floating moveables to her uie ; and ev.nc*
to her enemies ftie is llrong and vi;:orons,
with ability to counteract the a.b.t: . '
I'yftem impbfed by that power, which ai
rogantly Cays, (lie "will make old ocean
tremble under her numerous fleets Mi"
EQUALITY.
*** Correspondents at a chflance. are.re •
quelled til ti aniunt their j Days, o: c lor
the National Galette, pc>Jl pciiri > otjKTwnc
they will jw; be altent'.cJ to-ou'titoi" contemplated "Hid iutetlded that
the roads through the different parts of tlie
' country, fliould ever be pfefcryed free for
the advantage of tic '.mv\'e. We fee no
* reafoii why they Ihajit jw become'ob
jects of private fp> Nation.
Should the iegifLmire think it proper to
enact a law of till nature, we beg leave to
i rtlggell our liifapprobation to some clauses
' in ciie bill now utldcr confederation.
* The ninth fe£liou, bv which the president
and in makers, with their workmen, 5 c.
ore authorized to take the property of ci
tizens without their concur, is a violation
of tile :'s,.:d unental principles of civil soci
ety, by which every citizen is guarantied
in the ill I enjoyment, and the free disposal
of his property. This we regard as a great
injury, particularly when we coniider that
tile company lb authorized are aifin* in a
private capacity Tor their own private e
molument, on which account we are of
opinion, ti:t (Government ought not to in
terfere in the contrails of the company.
Cull it he tlwugl t confident with jullice,
that a farmer elsgaged in the moll ufeful
and necefi'ary occupation, by which he
does n-t clear j per cent, on his capital,
ftoi'.ld have his property taken without his
coufent, to enable an incorporated compa
ny, engaged in a fiibordinate occupation,
10 make a dividend of i j per cent, per
annum, oil their capital ltock.
We coniider the reparation of the pub
i.c high-ways as a nect airy public expence
To which the citizens fliould contribute in
proportion to their property. The 12th
ieflion of the bill is totally incontinent
with this jult principle of equality, as it
fubjefls the poorelc citizens, who in their
daily occupations are engaged in fupplyiiij;
tjie city with provilions to pay the fame
toil with the mod wealthy: as far as
f?icfi toll is considered as a tax for the sup
port of the highway, it operates unequal
ly, ;■ id as far as it is intended to put an u
surious interell in the pockets ot the cor
poration, it niuit be regarded as unjtifl and
opprcfiive.
Till3th feftion, in which it is declared
'"if arty waggon or other carriage fllall be
drawn along the laid road by a greater
number of horses, or with a greater
weight thai is hereby permitted, one of
the horses fliall be forfeited to the use of
the fan! com; a y, to be seized and taken
by any of their officer* or servants, who
fnr.ll be at liberty to choose which of the
said horses they may think proper, except
the lhaft or wheel horse or horses," is to
tally iiiconfificiH with jus.ice and found
policy ; as the molt powerful party is
jn.nl; judge in their own caule, and are
authorized in a fuimnary inanuer to exe
cute tiie law, ami to take from a citizen a
horse of the * alue of one hundred dollai s.
for an iufult offered to the dignity of the
corporation, rather than any real injury
done to the road belonging to the cojr.pa
liy.
Influenced by the foregoing reasons, we
are en;> ged to reiiionlli ate on this occasi
on, and to prav the legislature not toenail
the aforefaid bill into u law.
Signed, &c.
No. 111.
REFLECTIONS rei.ative ti
i i[e . KEKCH Kr:VCLI/TIO>;.
r T~ I HE French revolution, next to the
A American, is the molt intereiling ant
awful crisis in human affairs, that evei
claimed the attentionof the world. I fay.
next to the American, becalife the Frenct
revolution may be conlidered in a greal
tneafure as 1 consequence of the American.
Many cause; doubtless coufpired to prepare
the way in France for the great even!
there, and many circumstances, indepen
dent of America, may have coufpired with
her example to propel the French nation
towards the attainment of liberty. But il
is. highly probable, that if America had
basely given back from the glorious contcll
to which Hie was called, or had failed in
elhiblifhing her independence, that France
at this hour would have been groaning
under her yoke, and mankind deprived ol
that general prospect of a better order of
things, which the French revolution holds
out to all Europe. In this point of view it
is natural for every American to feci a pe
culiar interell in the affairs of France, liuce
befidis tiie common motive of philanthropy
and a love of liberty, he mull coniider the
itriiggles of France as a continuation of the
glorious struggles of his own country, for
tiie emancipation of human nature from
llavifh governments and llavifli prejudices,
and for the enjoyment of the equal rights
of man, anil all the blefliugs of civil society,
under the virtuous auspices of a republican
fy.lem. Accordingly, it is mod clear and
certain, that a hearty good will to the
French cause prevails through the great
rnafs of the people, notwithflauding the
artful niifreprefentations which have been
employed to hood-wink and millead them.
They know tiiat theFrenchare fighting for
their rights and liberties, as the Americans
fought for theirs j and that the kings and
nobles of the eartli who have for ages
pall rioted 011 the sweat and blood of the
people, and trampled on all laws divine and
human, are leagued together in defence of
tyranny and iniquity.
i |»e » c •! .* " rthr.ei ts of Am- t <■ a
were mod unequivocally evinced, w lien
they celebrated last winter the ftitcffles of
che arms of the French Repu>,;.ic. The
loth ofAugud putin ("ufpenfipii on royalty ;
and foo'n after the king, for betr;.)irg l'is
trtift, was formally dipi ived of his crown,
$nd the natiun'tlechned robe a Republic.
( his change in thefceneof things, as could
not but happen, was attended with vio
lence, toiivuliiorr, and blood. The agonies
of expiring monarchy, anil the panglul
birth of freedom, difpl. yed a fptffacle lhas
could ealily be disfigured into a pi mire of
horror, and a fad example of popular go
vernments. Advantage was taken of this,
every where, by the enemies of,liberty, to
blacken the revolution, and the fame ait'
were pra&ifed for the purpose here ; so
that for a time the people, embarrafitd
thereby, was beginning to doubt the
propriety of their zeal for the French
cause". At length, Truth forced its way
through the cloud that had been thrown
over it. Fails and circumltances c; me to
be understood. The people found that the
French nation, provoked by royal tifurpa
tion and perfidy, had only, like America,
declared theinfelvcs independent ot all
kingly government, a:.d had set up a Re
public in its (lead ; and tl e confequeiitci
that fell on the enemies of France nu i e ii
evident that the change was a nectii'.'i)
a:td wife, as tvell as a jurtifiable meafuie.
In this (late of things the half-fir,othsrcd
feelings of America broke cut into ;:n ar
dent and general jubilee in honor of the
French Republic. If the public of i
liion and disposition was evtr irrefragably
nianifefUd on any occalion, I think was
on that. For the I:gns and indications of ii
were perfectly free ami | ontaneons. Ihe
example began at Boflon. U the ttf:;irtoi:e;
of heart-felt congratulation with the glori
ous champions of republican liberty in Eu
rope, became in a moment iiniverfaj
throughout our continent. It reminder
me of the effect produced by the pamphlet
"Common Senle," in favour of indepen
dence. The suddenness and universality
of the effect evinced that the fentimenl,
which was the true cause, was before ir.
tile hearts of the people, and was only
brought into a£llon by a well-timed ;.d
---drefstoit. The celebration of the Rrjttih
lican viiiories of France, in or.e view was
the flronger cafe of the two. For, as 1
remember, the people of their ow 11 accoicl,
rullied into f'eilive expreiHons of their joy
at didant places, so near the fame moment
of time, that at many it could not be produ
ced by the example set at others, but mull
have been the uninfluenced,benevolent efi'u
iionof hearts gladdened with the preps ef:
and triumphs of that liberty of which they
taded the sweets themfclves.
The conduit of the American people on
the occalion alluded at, is the more de
serving our recolleflion now, bccaufe it
was poderior to anjtl founded 011 a know
ledge of the and ;<' ' 1 ijon
met.t of the king, and the erefiicn of t/.i
Republic on the ruins of monarchy. Tin:
conlideration proves clearly the attachment
of the Americans to republican government,
antl that they approved of the proceed::.--
! agaiuft the king, 011 the bel tf of bib en-
I rninal attempt to betray the cor.iututioi,
he had sworn to ftipport, and the countrx
that gave him bit ll\ into the cruel har.ds cl
foreign I'-fp- ts . Now, it the people of A
merica viewed ti.e niatter in this light,
how can it be, as feme would afi'e£t, that
their attachment to Louis riiould alienate
them from the nation for putting him tc
death, a: d out of pity to one poor mortal,
make them indifferent or unfriendly to a
cause involving the late of millions, and
perhaps the fate of liberty in one half the
globe, and possibly, in the event, oil the
other half too. No—lt is impossible. If
the king deserved to lose his crown in the
eyes of Americans, and they deemed the
eltablidiment of complete liberty agreeable
to American principles, on a republican
plan, so glorious to the people and nation
of France, the circumdance of punilhing
the royal offender with death, can never
turn their eyes or their hearts from the
grand objett Liberty, the liberty of
France, the liberty of Europe, the liberty
of human nature. They may recollect
with fenlibility the light in which they foi
inerly viewed the unfortunate Louis; they
may and ought to pity his lamentable faie ;
they may perhaps Willi his life had not been
taken away, or they may blame many cir
cumdances related, (whether truly or not
we cannot yet fay) of the trial, treatment
or condemnation of him. But then, on
the other hand, they are forced to remem
ber, that h's conduit had been-acceflai y to
the death of thousands of illnocci t people;
that it was treacherous anil dangerous to
the happiness of millions—that i- was his
conntry that condemned him, which
had the bed right to judge and could
bed judge whether his life had been
forfeited, and ought to be required at
his hands—and, that whether the French
nation judged right or wrong, in this
indance, or were governed by reason or
paflion therein, it cannot s.lfeff thecaufe
of liberty in general, and the merit
afcribecl to the French in abolishing royal
ty ; nor diminilh the anxious' wishes and
prayers of every American, true to repub
lican principles, that the Republic, so glo
riotifiy fc: up by France, ma/ prevail uvel
s, and tn: t iirt'cr trf !
Df het example, arid the example of An e- |
rica, the reign of Liberty may l." ur.i\ er
faily eftabJiU.etl.
rHILADELPKtJS.
June i i:
For the National Gazette.
sensations n.uft dot bt
~/ less arifg in lie bieaft of every perlon,
who is not irimically diCpoCcd towards t'»:e
rights of HKn, Upon healing, or rea3ir.g of.
the too CucceGful progress of the various
combinations for the defti uciion of the tit e
ot liberty. So numerous are the votaries ol
avarice, credulity, prejudice and fuperfliti
on on the other lide of the Atlantic,that the
intercft of a few individuals is preferred to
the \v diare of millions.
•• Happily for the United States of Ame
rica, they are now enjoying a well-earned
honorable peace. Having now gained our
own freedom, we may lit quietly down,
every man under his own vine and his own
lig-mc, i'.nd view with a calm compolure,
thole calamitous wars which at'prefent de
luge F.urope with blood.''—lf luch is i.ot
the real language , f many ol' our w orthv
citizens,it is a conitruction w hUh ma) juili)
be put upon several if their luiubiations.
In vain is the cau'fe of humanity adduced
to plead the caufu cf France titioi e Cu'th
judges as il.efe, \\ hen a fellilh iniei ell is an
advocate for the other party. Lan an;,
tn.e republican view thefreedom ol man
kind at Hake, whiift at the faille tin'.'e he
lefufes )lis tftolls to aid her trii.n.( h : ht t
can ar.y Con of Amcrica behold the unequal
coiJKlt which now tx:fis in Furipe with
t i t vvilhrng his country to pay that dtbt ol
gratitude to France which ihe has Co long
contrsfied. by ; ,(lilting her to support the
car.Ce of humanity, and defeat the iniquit
ous' deTi gns ivf dt Ipots. Fienchmi n, by af
lilllng this oppn fled country in l.cr fn njlgle
for her rights, caught the ardent fume
which glowed with Co liiucli vi f our in its
native loil—They waited it into tl.e:r own
territory, where it blaztd with redoubled
luflre—Oreat-I'i itain, Poland, Ciimany,
Sweden, Hoi! a i.d, and Spain fee nit d 10 l.av t
been (corchcd by its heat ; and al! 1 lire pi
bade fair to be Coon unitrd ii! one ; ei ei«l
confiagrat on, v.hiih would hiir iliumina
ted the whole world with the benthcent
rays of real'on, science. human:'.) and vir
tue. But how darkened the pro.pi ct v. hi eh
is now pfei'enttd to our vie w ! '1 hecrown*
of c % cry nation in Eui c pe ft em deteimint J
to check its progi tls. F.\r: > i.uuuU i.c
quainted with the alptQ'w hich the came «J
freedom now we..cs; and ihall we, ui it
grcateft hour of difficulty and d-i ger, poC
cls no niore iflhefpirit oi i'retn en, tl.r.i
to fufi'tr it V* l.e abandoned ly 11;e urj
perfens who'fir it efpouCtd its intt rti-.s. i;
it jufl ? is it gratelul ? is it horoiabie ? ii
it rcafiinable i is it humane.? If tvranu)
is incompatible with the inti 11 fts of iuni.ai:
nature, is it .not the duty of cve i v manic
promote the pi chiefs of those lentiir.cn;:
which are calculated to facilitate the wel-
IVi eof mankind. VI hen our filiation wa:
peculiarly unfortunate, France : ii.'itd us
in the time of danger : will a fie is ai.c
gratefVl people reinfe to return their tri
bute of afliflance. w i.ea its? < x. gent y of af
fairs demands it !
But if we are loft to every manly fenti
mer.t. and callous to every feeling whit!
ii.ould diflinguilb freemen from have, lei
us not be blind to our own inteuiis. '1 ht
cause of France, in my i pinion, is in .
great nieafw e the cause of An erica—Vvni
knows but the combined aimits, if the)
are firccc-Csful againlt her, will ntxttur:
their attention to this wellem continent ;
and the infernal deCpots, in pelled'and ait it i,
by our ancient Co.vcreign loidar.d n.ai'.cr.
will attempt to flifie every Cpark of philan
thropy by jeducirg thele Hates into ino
jeft provinces. The idea isnotnew.it i ; s
been talked of, appeared in some of the
public prints, and is even laid to have ac
tuated the late CongreCs at Antwerp. The
appearance of circunillances countenancea
Cuik an opinion ; and with me, irom an
ancient conjecture, it is now reduced into
a probability, if not a certainty. Vvhy has
the king oC Great-Britain, in violation oi a
(Oleinn treaty, as well a 9 the laws if na
tions, kept pofleflion of the Weltern polls,
and not withdrawn his forces Irom theie
United States:—why have fucli repeated
insults been offered to the Aiiierical) flag in
foreign ports by Bi itifli CuLjects: —why, ai e
tfTe liberties ot the Amtri.ans Co abridged
by a B>itiji) act of Parliament . —Are uiet'e
not fufheient to convince us that t nderthe
present prosperous appearance of" their af
fairs, they are seeking for a pretext ii r a
future war with us. Are not these tufli
cient to conviuce us that they are ftiil our
enemies, and wait for nothing but a fa
vourable opportunity, to Ccize upon our
liberties.
But we Cet'tn dead to cur danger—faf
cinatedwith tliepleaiing influence of cie
lulive prol'pefls, we will tamely lufier our
treaties to be Cportcd with, our laws to he
violated, and our natural honor inCulted.
Is this the effect of that freedom which we
Co dearly purchaled I is this the firft con
duit of a iree people ! May we not ascribe
it to the pernicious influence ofbritifii iu
rerefl. What the conquering arms of
Ron.e, in fuc%-c2ive t.n ~. c ..ici iw.
eft c v , w Frorjht :Hot.nn a few years by
the inrftuhi&ioii of fop •• n luxury. W<f
at r tto p \xe our conimei. ' ' tercourle
wi;h C.ieat-b'iitain al too liivli a rate—We
11i! 1 view c;r ii otl.tr couniry witli an eye
as prejudice. If we rt tei\ e ir< ill the Bri
tilli f i liiC of tlie necti aiies of lift, ilo v. a
not likewise import many of their fupeiflu*-
tit:'. htxnrifr .i rsci vices. ? If. by an inter
.ourfe with us, principles of iit etion: ate
lificminattd o\ er theircountry, are « e r,( t
n return tainted with the cimiptirg a;*l
utractne grandeur of a corrt.
Lifien to tiie voice of reason, fellow-ci
.ztiis, A.fler not \ our jniij- litems to be mil
led by the flattering appearance of picfent
tttcrefl. Itis now high tmcto \ ii. diiate \
ur national character, l.y cc n pelling tl.oltr -
a 1.0 now I'port with oor ueatits to comply*
.vitii their engagement;. Have ,v. e not
iiiitrej 'inrfelves to be trampled Upon long,
nough to tiiiplay to the world our Ithity
ltitl love icr peact —]! wertiuain inxtiive
inylot'j.ti, will it net be i oiifuticd intc*
niliiiaminity :—Does not the infultirjr;
treatment our feamtn have experience tK
w arrai.t us lo cciiclt.de ti at the lit"it.f 1 Lave
ilreatiy pi t Inch a cons.i uc.io/i upon oi r
tieii dnfl ? Our \ ifit is have been pillaged
by Er glint fub.ieiis, and American failure
dragged from iheir own fi.ips ;o ti. 1 t p tie
iofs of the Br".tilh navy ! Is r.ot Great-
Britain ttc'eti!, in a manner, in a slate t.f"
warfare with us,, by rttainirg troops in
u;r tit n.in,(is ? Do we not experience the
of; if tbe iwrts in their pofkii.on in a peiu
;ar ti.i.i,, er (luring-our war with the In
dians? How long will i: be, before we
Ihew to the wuilel, that we .pofTcfs a real,
as w ell as a I.oli.it.a! Irt t den..
T ht re toiiid not jit si bly le r. more fa
vourable opportunity than tie prcfent, of
lot t ii g a ti i: piiance w it li ti , at it s, as well
is icnitVn i' our national crtdit—W biie
the f.ett of Gieat-britain l as to ion.bat
with the naval loiteof a people who are
exciting tb.tmiehes with the energy of
fit t n. en, we could liav e !;i lie to lear li out
tl.at terrific tiuarier. 1 l.e i.b.creations ot
jVir. l-'aii.c, in his Con n.m tenle, upon the
lobject of cur . bility at lea, will apply w ill*
nioie paiiituLr iwte at ii.e piefent mo
lt, tni. 7 l.c .nbi,n.ail tt.ttfe, in wbith
Cleat Britain is now en;,;.ged, as well as
tbe diiitii t.aisi es which aj-jjiar libeiy to
bic.-H* 'it at hin.e, ti oi ii! pieclt.de the
iof l.i r .nil ;', ii.iuli oi her military
: oi ce le r this i ortii < i t.
but oil ,iie contra;)', if we wait till a
pi m nutiLiitd wnit tie belligerent
icwers ofhintp*', what will betheconfe
.|iiciite. If frame piotcs ititccUul, fbe
i'.iil l;a\e too mai v i'i ntthic concerns to
..tie-iel 10, bcl'i ie (be li.ii.ailis il.e fate of
.another vi. i. If the con.felted armies aie
i t 11 ions we fiiaii 1 i.\c t> 11 > thing to lear,
land nothing lo In pt. ( 'j.ci; oil the north
to our eit .i its-tie britilh ; oil the fotillt
to tl.e ?p;.ii.;,it:s ; on tie w tit to the ir
t i t for s oi i.i lii.e lav: ye 1 - ; ai d on tbe talt
to tiit attack if ai.y ii.aiit n.e jower.we
nay leecn.r aniaiy pity to tbe hungry
ir.vceiers. lie vvi.oit i. \ its ol Citat
britain. bpain. 1 oil. 1 liancl.; ei baps Fi anct T
will tfiti; ual.y obfu act nll y cctnii.ti tia!
inter'coi.rie.
1 be te ti i fderations are w ill vv ortliy the
attention oi Uic rt prelcntatii cs of the peo
ple. Tie iul jt cb w ill ;onitol no procraf
imatHin. It is the itlnt of i t mbers oi th .
tit.zti.s ibat it n.ouni ;ptt t-1 ; time under
their toi i del at,on. jtisti e i efot e hoped
ii at tie F.e. i.tr.t will toa.piy with the
voue oi the pccpie/'w Uiisi* jiurxt % by con
vfiiiig tbe ru.piclenutives of the Union
with ail poflitle ceieijty, lor thepurpofe
o) conf.Cei ii g our i eiatii e precarious fitu
ationwith certain foieign powers. It is
heiwi \tr tie bt i.i.els of tbe fe.ple to eon-
I (it r it, as veil as tie l■- j,, -- -. Our ton
oiict w ill niaiiiielt our alt. it n.ent to those
pi nit', pies w btsi. w ere tl.e gjts y of our c. ti —
zc ns in i: 5 ; it v. ill cite ..re whether we
t.rue fwervtd iiem lliofeltntiments whicli
we (..le lijpoiutl; -i.el IUW how iar «e
have elapfeci into the Cavifn i. aimers of our
anctftois. It is «>p.prebeiit!ed our liberties
are m danger, we have i: ; itive spirited
exertions ill eieleht eof tie in ; v\ e ha\ e ex
perienced tome of tbe biin. ts reiultiiig.
tiom tl eir enjcynient :if ti.a tontefi is not
en(ltd, let lis lupport tbem with that en
eigy which be' oiiits thole v. bo have talieel
thefwectsof fieedriu. \, t- aienow blt'J
jt-d witn a col iiitution, v.biili, though it
dots not politifs the many iihcginary cx
ctileiuic wliicii lome (jiccnlt-i.ve thcorifls,
would wi:i,t!ill let aii s .ii.s
(|iialiltcation, i bat it is calculated never tt>
iffcttitriite. blow w.oiij eiir.erentis our
llate of ailaii s-(rein witat they were 40.
years ago. The people now enjoy the
" otii.tr ci/m (Ugh it ate?? w h'.cli c ur tyrants,
foin i-i iy [.oflencd, We can now perform
tiie citities 01 freemen, \»ithout tl.e cxpenfe
anil inconvenience of elt cfirg our execu
tive: anil, thanks to'heaven, there are al
ways enough patrit t ill .tu 1 i lea, vc ho are
willing to iegiti.i.e i. r time, v. .tbrut even
giving tiie people tbe of prefentinjj
them with ir.!triic,icr.;.
Kife, it liow-i iiiit-ns, be no longer deaf
to your own ii.terefts and tt.'e catife of
mankind. Be 110 lonyer dtipts to the en
ticing attrac.ion if 11 iullit Iml splendour.
lake /.. eJ iejl you le Jetlt.ced jrvft tie Jim
. I,.t\ truit is in true repvuli<.ri,.i l ',n. The
tii ;J, the luxuriDiib ci.ciu.jiacy of a
ur*, ..zi Li.. 1. -'.'v i.ec wc* .i- . . l-uiicc of aUniverjity of Pennsylvania.
IT lias been hitherto the pra&iceof this
seminary, (as it was all along the prac
tice both of the OIJ college, and of the
old uuiverfity) to examine the fcveral rolis
once aweek-; and on every such occasion
to levy lines (except whsre corporal pu
nifhment was to be inflidled) on such ol
the lludeiUs, as during the preceding week,
liad been cither late in their attendance, 01
absent altogether; at any particular session.
Cut this praffice, however good the
deligri with which it was instituted, was
instituted, was found to be attended with
some inconveniencies. The colle&ion ol
so many petty fines was both troublesome
and degrading to the profefiors. Neither,
after all, could the imposition of these fines
be esp;fted to produce the desired effect :
for, if eonfiderable, they operated rather as
a tax upon the parents, than as a punifh
inent on the boys ; and if inconsiderable,
were but too apt to be disregarded—And,
as to corporal punlfhment, the inflidtion ol
it so frequently, and in so public a manner,
could not bet tend to wear oat that in.
genuous sense of (hame and regard to cha
racter, which it is one great end of educa
tion to cherilh and promote.
jSt a meeting therefore, of the Faculty, belt
JtpTil 18, 1793, l * wai unanimoujly re
fotved,
Firlt, i hat all fines and corporal pu
nilijments for attending late, or for being
absent altogether, at any particular session
fliall be abolished.
And secondly, That on the firil Wed
nesday of every month, thtre (hall be a
meeting of the several ProfelTors and Tu
tois, for t':e purpose of examining th«
general roll, and compiling their ftvera!
particular rolls,when an accurate (latement
of the attendance and behaviour of each
student, during the pieceding month, (hall
be mace out. and presented to his parent!
or guardian."
The Faculty confide, that by thus ex
tending the authority of the parents and
guardians, there w.ll be the less need for
the exertion of other authority; and that
the apprehension of this monthly notice will
be lound to have at lead as mueh influence
0:1 the minds of their pupils, as the appre
lienfion of the weekly fines & punishments
were found to have formerly.
Pubhfhed for the information of the pa
rent; and guaidians of the students and
scholars at the university.
By order of the Faculty.
y m. ROGERS, Sec'ry.
Philad. June nth, 1793.
PHILADELPHIA, June 1 5 .
There are letters in town from a refpec
tabic house in Amsterdam, of the 191b of
April, mentioning that their high migh
tinefsthe dates general, will give r.o per
miflion to the American veflels there, to
take a freight or be chartered for tlu-
Weft-Indies. One veflel had been char
tered for 40,000 guilders, but would not
be fuffcred to proceed: The confequencc
is,that there are many American ships now
lying in the Dutch ports, some of which
are detained even in ballad. The letters by
which we have thi'3 intelligence, further
mention, that our (hipping, were also pro
hibited from being chartered even to Su
iinam and Demarara. When we compare
this treatment, with the detention just
before, of captain Millar, of the barque
Hope, belonging to this port, for the space
of five weeks, we are forced to conclude,
that there seems to be an intention, on
the part of some European nations, of
cramping the flourilhiug date of our mari
time trade as much as it may,
for a time, have some efre<3, but unless the
course of nature (hould be quite reversed, it
■\\ il! be in vain for all the nations on earth
to pi event the ultimate profperuy of the
United fatates ; for nature has indisputa
bly laid them out, not only as an asylum,
from the perfections of the old world,but
for the mod populous and greaieil nation
on the earth.
All theports of the French Wed-Indies
<ire open to American velTels, as appears
by the following decree, some particulars
et which we have already pubhfhed, but,
for the further fatisfaftion of our readers,
it is now given at large.
In tie name of the French Republic.
George Henry-Victor Collot, major-ge
neral of the armies of the French repub
lic, governor general of the Iflanci of
Guadaloupe and its dependencies.
"" ~niSat Jolioriafi
Art. I. Every port of tlie French colo
nies are open for the veflch of the United
States of America.
/Art. It. Every produce exported or
imported by Ame.ican vessels, fliall no:
pay going out or coming in, in the colo
nies or in France, but the fans; duties laid
on those which French vessels take in.
Ait. 111. The executive council is au
thorized to pursue every convenient mea
sure, that the dates, with whom the re
public is at war with, (hould not reap the
advantages granted to a friendly power-
Art. IV. The executive council is di
rected to enter into negociation with
the United Congreis of America, to ob
tain in favour of the French traders, a
reduction of duties, such as is granted b\
the prcfent regulations to American trad
ers, that it may link together the ties ol
acknowledgment which unite the two ra
tions.
WE, by virtue of the powers delegate; 1
to us,do order every corporation of julllce,
municipalities and tribunals, to give di.t
execution to the above-rnentipncd articles,
to have them transcribed on their records,
lead, publiChed and patted up where il
may be nectflary.
Given at BafTe-Terre, the 26th 01
April, 1793.
Signed VICTOR COLLOT.
By the citizen Governor :
Signed, HENRY.
Extras of a /(Her from St. Peters.
May 20,
" I have the pleasure to fay, the Iflanc:
of St. Peters and Miquelon furrer.dered al
dilcretion to his mnjefty's forces on the ij
inlt. They attempted to demand term:
of capitulation, which was decidedly rcfuf
ed. Had they kept a look out, with theii
numbers, and such a battery a> they have :
mounting efght 26 pounders, which effec
tually defends the harbour, they might
have given us feme trouble. The numbei
of inhabitants is 1,502 —the filhermen ant
troops arc to be carried to Halifax—thi
others are to remain untill his majesty':
pleasure i 3 known.
" As there are a number of frnall craft
which cannot be sent away, 1 think il
would answer exceeding well (if any art
so inclined) to come here to pnrchafi
them. There are also a great quantity o
si.li and fait."
The Proclamation.
A few days after the Philadelphia mer
chants and tiaders had presented their ad
dress to the President, one of the figneri
(in a large company, of which the writei
of this article was one) declared that, i,
h■ s opinion, the proclamation required eve
ry individual citizen to treat a minister 01
fubjeft of Great-Britain with the fame
refpett as a minister or citizen of France ;
that Britilh and French vefi'els of war and
their prizes, were to enjoy equal privilege:
in American ports, any treaty to the con
trary notwithftandiiig ; and that to obfervc
a different conduct, in either of these re
t'pefts, would be a flagrant violation oftht
neutrality, impartiality, and equal friendthij.
to a.M, enjoined by theproilamation. An
other signer of the address remarked, that
the salute of the French frigate had beer
returned by some American volunteers j
not to pay the fame compliment to any
British ship of war that might arrive in 0111
port, would be fufficient ground for Great-
Brit ain to declare war against this country ;
" but, continued he, if we mufl be invol
ved in the war, I hope it will be on the
Itrong fide-"—Such were the impression;
under which these gentlemen addresser:
offered up their incense at the President';
flirine ! !! —Doubtlefs many of their fellow
wcrfLippers were equally refpeclable, both
in understanding and principle!!!—Wiial
a sublime composition mufl this fame pro
clamation be, which soars so high above
popular comprehension!!! lam told how
ever, some ingenious persons have disco
vered, and can clearly prove, that it is
flri&ly confident with all our treaties.—
It is said these discoverers mean to apply
for a patent.
War !—War! !—WarM !
The public are under innumerable obli
gations to some of the quick-sighted cen
tre's of government, who have detedled
a treasonable plot of certain infernal in
cendiaries in this country, to plunge the
United States into a war againfl Great-
Britain and the other confederated powers.
At an appointed day all the arni3 and am-
icnala, throughout the United States, were
to hpe been seized by the conspirators :
who had formed a plan for inftaiitty em
arking one hundred tkoufandmen in canoe:.
jiJt bottomed boat;, fmacka, &c.
lorne or whicii were to have taken the
Lritifh Weft-India islands, while others
proceeded to France, to join the Sam
Culottes.—Oh, wnat vile incendiaries !
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.
May 1793*
<r /• 1 D - [I. lU'.ni. Wcatiji
Tu'fdoy, 4. 6 30. c) 54 ( E.S.E R.i-.r
J"'-' 3l V>- < 60 \ Ho. Cloudy
If ednejday, j. I ~~T~
I • c 72 lair.
'Iburjdaj, 6. tig.) 5 !».>. t
: 2 9' /5 7' )' S. Rain.
Friday, 7 . 6 29. 8, 6 g rg. w f^T"
3 2 9- li 78 W. i <!«.
Saturday, 8. 6 30, cl — 6"J 'w. fj.-r.
3 3°- 0 S. W. do.
Sunday, s . 6 29.95 7°
3 2') t SS ; S.w.'f.ii.
Monday, jo. 6 29. 5 74 A. w. ifT^.
3 2 9* S 1 90 jdj i ,/a.
TO THE PUBLIC.
a " attachment at th. Juit of Sam
uel fmlay anJ Nathaniel Imlay, executor:
I).' the testament and last will of Peter Imlay, de
ceased, has iftued cut of the Supieme Cour 01
Judicature of the l!ate of New. Je.fey, a jainlt th.
lands of Garret Voorheis, late of the county 0]
M ddlefex, and state afcrefaid, returnable to the
111 it Tuetday in September, feventeea hundrei
and ninety.two Notice is hereby given to th.
said Cariet Voorheis, that unless he appear an<J
file special bail to the laid adtion, judgment
will be entered against him, by default, and the
' and Iso attached (old for the fatisfaflion offuch
I>t his creditors as (hall appear to be justly entitled
to any demand thereon, and (hall apply fur thai
purp.fe, according to the form of the'ftatute in
luch cafe made and provided.
By order of the Coujt,
April 17. law. jy HOWELL, Cllf
Harrijbargh Mail Stage.
STARTS every Wedneiday from Mr. Henry
Epply's in race street, between third anc
fourth streets, anJ arrives at Marrifburgh 0:1 the
Saturday morning following*-Starts from Mr.
Crabb's, innkeeper, Harrit'burgh, on Monday
and arrives on VVcdnefday at Philadelphia.—
N. B. The Heading llage starts from Reading,
at John Witman's, innkeeper, on Monday, anc
arrives at. Philadelphia on Tuesday morning-
Then flarrs from Philadelphia on Friday mom
ing "t a o clock, and arrives at Reading on Sa>
turday morning. The greatest care and attenti
on /hail be paid by the publics' humble fervanr*
WILLIAM COLEMAN.
N. E. A light stage upon lprings, with twe
horses, or without horses, with complete geers
may be had at any moments' warning, fur the
accommodation of ladies and gentlemen, by ap
plying to the above named \\ m. Coleman, living
n the borough of Reading.
FOR SALE,
Thirteen Hundred and Sixty Acres
of excellent
Farming or T. obacco Lands,
IYING in the county of Arnhfrft, in tlif
(late of Virginia, on one of the
branches of James River, within fix miles of t'l
latter, from where it is navigable for boats of ten
jr twelve tons burthen — BeSdes the advantage,
at these lands, for the farmer or cultivator of to
bacco, they are fuppoled, from a small though
(uccelsful experiment, made by the late colonel
Lhifwell,. to contain an abundance of metals
which, if not of a precious (as has been eve,!
luppofed) are certainly of a very valuable kind.
Ihe better, however, to ascertain this fa<s>, and
-'lace the purchaser on a fafe footing, in f 0 i.az
ardous a business, as ail those subterraneous re-
Marches, without the utmort certainty of an
sbundanceof the defued ore, is supposed to b,-
:very reasonable and necelTary affiltance or indul-'
jence will be rendered those inclined to make the
experiment, as well as every other necelTary in.
ormation given by the Editor of this gazette, in
I'hiladelphia, or
JOHN NICHOLAS,
Charlottefville, Virginia.
June 8, 1793-. „w6w
I Have claims to about two hundred and
fifty thousand acres of LAND in the (tateoi
Kentuckey, in difi'erent parts .f that country,
I'ome of which I know to be equal to any; ai'
of wheh I am inclined to dispose of, either bv
sntlre sale, or by admitting one, or two partners
to whom the agency on the whole will be com
mitted.
One fourth of the contrast will be required ir,
hand, either in calh, merchandise, or such alfct;
as may be converted to active use, the relidue
may be apportioned in convenient instalments.
The purchasers to give security, on the land,
or othervvays,as suits thetn.
Knowing that there is a prejudice against the
titles of land in that (late, which is moie general
[han just, lam willing to stipulate in the con
trail, that a discount, or deduction, shall t.f
made, where anylanJ may be loft, by reafun efi
defective title.
Any person inclining to such a purchase, ia re
quested to write to me by polt.'in answer tr,
whom, more particular information will be given.
H E N RT 'B AN K S.
Richmond Mar«h zo, 1793. iu4 tf
Dollari. Cents.
(ioo Cents make 1 dollar.)
AIIES, pot per,ton i2od/«i 35 rf
pt*- 11 "' ditto *24*1 to 14c*!
iiucoo, Hitches perlb gto gc
!hou:ders do - c
iJeet'. Bolton per barrel ~,1
Country ' do 9 d/»i2a
Beer, American in bottles
including bottles per doz.. id 40c
-—ditto per barrel 4d 67c
Bees wax per lb 26c 28c
Brandy, Coniac per gal 90c 100 c
common do " g oc to 85c
Butter in kegs per lb J2C
Cheese, Country perlb g c n c
—- — Kiiw I i ill I9 3 c
Chocolata l3c 20e
Coal per bushel 24c 33c
Codfifli per cut 3d j 3c
Coffee perlb 14 c' 16c
Copperas per cwt id 67c
Cordage, American per cwt 7 d 6;c 8d
Cotton perlb 2 6c 3 g c
•Max per lb ncl 2 c
Fluxfced pei bufli. c OC
Flour fnperfine per barrel 6d
common s< j (, JC
Bur-middlings, belt
Meal Indian per bbl. 3d j 3c
Rye, do 3 d 3jc
Gin, Holland per cafe 41] 66c
— per gallon 80c 90c
Ginseng 30c
Gunpowder, Fine glazed per fjr <2 4J
Grain, Barley per buihel ,d
Best {helled per buihel 2d 67c
Buckwheat per buihel 40C
Indian corn t, ac
Jer'fey, do gj
Oafs „ 5C
Rje
At neat 93c to id soc
Hnms per lb 9 cto 10c
Hemp, imported per ton i2od 146d6;c
Imerican per lb 4 C j C
Hides, raw perlb o c , IC
Hops j 7;
Honey perlb g^
Indigo,' Carolina perlb id id aoc.
French id 20c id 53c x
Iron, Bar per ton g^ ( j
Cartings per cwt 3d 4d
Nail-rods per ton 106J 67c
£ is 2 4 d
Sheef tyxA 33c
Irons, fad iiidiic
T ..1 I i» *5;> u 5J c
Lard hogs perlb ioc 11c
Leather, foal perlb 17c 20c
Myrtle wax perlb 12C .
Molali'es per gallon 44c 47c
Milliard, flour, in hot. per doz, jd 20c
-second quality, per doz. g 7 c
N.;i!s, 8d lod I2d and 2©d per lb. 10c
Oil, Liufeed per gallon 63^
Olive S;c
per cafe cc
Pepper per lb 3 g c
Pimento iqc
Pitch per bbl id 73c 2d
Porter per ca/k s< | 33c
London per doz id t, oc
Amer. hot. inclu. id 6oc
Pork ; Burlington, per bbl 13d 33c
Lower county J2f j
Carolina p ( ;
Rice per cwt 3 <|
Rum, Antingua pergal id
Barbadoes g 7C
Country, N. E. 60c
Jamaica id 12c
Saltpetre per cwt I4d 33c
ialt, Ailum, per bufii 3 3c
Cadiz 25c
Lisbon 27c
Liverpool 3 , c
Snakeroot perlb . 20c 42c-
Snuff, per iioz. bot. 4d 5J 60c
~ perlb 33c 40c
ioap. Brown per lb s, c
White gc
Starch perlb 7C
iugar, Havamiah, white,perlb 17c 18c
Wn lICI2C
Mulcovado per cwt J3d i;d
Lump per lb 2^c
Loaf, single refined. ZZr
double {litto * c
Tallow, refined, per lb t c
1 ar, New-Jersey 24 gal per bbl /d
——Carolina, 32 gal 2d
1 ea, Hyson per lb 93c id 28c
Souchong 30 „ 93c
Bohea
Tobacco, James River, befl
OM ri ° r 3d 33c
4d 67c
Kappp.hannock
Coloured Maryland 33/gd
P ark . 2d 40c
Long-leaf 2 d 40c
Laftern-ihore 2d 2d 23c
Carolina, new 2d jc~d /
Oill <7(1 /
Turpentine per bbi 2 d 33c ,
Wine, Madeira, p. P.. , 76d 2 26 d
Lilbon , isod 1261!
JTenenfFe p erga l 6?c
Saerry
PRINTED BY
C H I L D S AND SWAINE.
AT THKIk OFFICE N«». 20Q f HIOH-STK££T;
kear riFTri-sratiT,
LAV I t-f! I