By P. FRENE AUi (at No. 209, Market Street) PubliJlied Wednesdays and Saturdays, FTiirfe Dohapc * 1
/ 1. collars per annum,^
Numb. 87 of' Vol. li.] WEDNESDAY, 28, rjV 1 w
' ' - ' v.v |_ x otaJ Numb. igi,J
NEW-YORK, August si.
To the Printers of the Daily Adverti
ser.
Gent trtien,
A MONG the various fubje&s which at
p efent occupy the attention of the
public, the conduct of the Company of the
Jupiter seems to he none of the least intc
relting—th ■ Oieculative mind of the publii
js held in fnfpenfe, and not knowing the
jnotives 0.1 which they have a&ed, canno:
form a proper judgment of their conduit.
The following addrefles, therefore,
they rend conliderably to elucidate th
lubj ?£t, can lot fail of be ng aeceptab e.
The fir.l which was sent to Citizen Ge
ret, requires little explanation. The
Company of the fnpiter, anxious to inve
the caules and tn discover the authors 01
the late e.i ■ mities committed at Cape
Irancois, in which they were influenced to
bear a part, and of which we *1 iv every
moment witu»fs t i» iniferable confequen
ces, hive on jnlf grounds of fufp'cion u -
1 eftsd their commander. admiral Cam:.is.
*vhom they n-e determined to conduit,
i g» ier.il G-i I'i md. to the National
Convention, toanfwer for their reflective
conduct before that augiift tribunal—and
3n order t!ie better to this purpose,
t icy are determined to fail, asfoon as polfi-
Ale for Fra'.ice.
Ihe miniiter, on the o*-be p band solicit
ous for the fd'ety of admiral Cambis. and
perhaps with a view towards the re-effib
1 ilhment of orth-r and union in the fl et
Jield a counci. ->f war at his lodgi.Ts on
}■ rid i)* even last ; when among t;t r
uiattei , no do :bt of equal importance, it
•was determined that the prifo.iers Ihould
be liberated, and that the Jupiter, with
some other vessels of the fleet, ihould be
sent on » crnife.
Ihe relult <>f these d 'iberatforf c \i
verbally coniniu lie i id to the pimp n. ot'
thejupter. who h .<li,.g them diametr i *1
jy opaolite to rh;',i inte--»tio is, therenpor
feat the following address to the ambalfa
tlor :—
The 1 . rich Repub icans of every denomi
nation. on board the veiTel of the Re
public the Jupiter ;
To Citixen G let, M:n'/fer of the Republic
to the U ruled Stales of Am r'tca. '
Citizen,
. THE 1' of deception is patted—there
js not a i rrntlu itizen who is unacquainted
with hi; o vii right or yours—we hive pe
netrated through rhe ohfctirity of the
council of W ar heid yelfe,ia> at your
noul * —we were too niucn iuterelled iiuhe
event not to fuccef'd in our i veiligation
Mylrery was welifii'-d to the old govern
ment, but it is us.-d to little purpose to
wards patriotic citizens; wejenow a ||
w»are no lenger to he deceived, neither
wi.l we be engaged in any reduction. We
are accufetl of being the ai - '.if, of thole
■very crimes which we ha e endeavoured
to prevent -the National Con • enroll .none
can be our judge, and we a ill no lon»er
remain here underthe preflure of the molt
grievous accusations, however great the
glory,or however brill ant Uieiamels which
you oroniife. We have no coi.fi ience but
in the nation, and we declare to you, that
being determined to go and demand it. her
tr ouiial iuftice and vene.e nice, ne.ther von
.nor any other lhall detain us longer in the
American seas.
Galbaud, that citizen \\h,>m you, no
.doubt, are u lacquainted with, lince we
k'i'.vvthat you yourfelf taiuni'.iate him,
fhail go with it* to the Coiiventrcin.
Ca t'&.s. although he wishes to avoid it
fliall go there also : the so.i of pnlverel
ruid le B fine, »i»m yon willi to efc.u>e
from on board i'Koie, we will in like man
ner c mduft to th-td"- 'd Convention.
Gil baud, and ourselves, as are con
scious of our iunoce ce, ,r v not afraid so
■arp-ar before that jufl tri u :al.
Ci .zen Minii!?' , arte •(' then to the co:i
sequences—You ns as c , ,oie
and before we hi,- j« If tied our/Vlvcs u
the National Convention. that you
will her, make US fervc vfiplihli;
She (hould have no fervanrs, no dcfeudei
butfuch a: are worthy , r and when
we (ha!i have proved to ier that we arc
her true children j wh, we I all be wo:
thy to combat her enemies, we will en
counter tliern.
It :s then to nr, purpose that you emplo\
agaiiift us and the other republicans of our
fleet, thnfe arts and maciii uions of the
<J.d p6ltcy, which though they might in
•fed beatable to the cabinet of *Vei^iil-
ies, that receptacle of lies and tyranny, pre
n°t agreeable to the principles of repub
licans.
You are the representative of the Re
public—be worthy of your office, and do
not keep us any longer at a distance from
our country, fer in Ipite of your efforts V, »
a ill go to her. and (lie (hall then give her
judgment of that ast, which you will not
■il to fully with the name of disorder and
want of(ubordi ation, but which we cali
an ast of republi. anifm. beraufe we hold it
the fir't and ni.it lacrtd of our duties, to
'te our innocence before tile Na
tion, 1 Convention.
O b;rd r; :l - Jnpirer, the i-th off
Au.cift, vj. the P;ci>nd year /•
°t t e * ench Republic. j
Signed bv tne Head Officer of each
t.
* Monf ,:net was formerly Secretary
t Veifaiflps.
1 he co rinclofti'f uirapmy of the Ju
ire r having ten rcprel'e led to their bre
> -n of the Aiiibiif. acie—the folUwins.
'ddref, i v a g ne' il j ftification ofthei.
iro eed g- together with a declaration ol
neir p;Urio;ifii], .i.;cl hit i«>ii»n 11* a r ta h iicilt
torhecaue which thrv have undertaken
0 defend; the fi,H parafpph w II be
ntellig be ; o iliofe w -io do not '.now thar
'ie .i-iii invof [(ie .imbufcade, were tc
iave b. i <e it on hoard the Jupiter, to
■ I in the vellel : on thisoctalion ail ad
t Was Cent to the people of the Am.
ii a<,e, to which this paragraph has re -
•eren<e.
B 'hers ar.<l Friends,
T HS moment of your arrival, convinces
1 ' ist von hive not received a letter which
At? had tne honor to address to you thi>
"l -rnip.; we doubt not that your com
manders have acquainted you with it, as
w::: add relied to the crew—neither do we
:lou 1 the patriotilm of captain Bompaid,
or his officers.
Remember we are all children of one
cot, mo-i irother, our country.
Remember rhut we all delend the fame
;anf, .—- fji, oath which <v? h-ve tahen,
to defend Liberty and "Equality, is furcly
irrevocable.
We have been painted to you in the
blackest colours, ancfw :io can prove that
we h vp acted o ntr- ry to true patriotism.
Ah ! b ethren, ho»- great, how nume
rous, are our common enemies ; traver'fe
every part of the world, and you will find
in each of them beings, who, under the
ipecious mailt of patriotism, devise the
blackest plots againfl the defenders of f<i
beneficent a republic: no sooner i-, one
project discovered, than they contrive
others, which in their turn are dictated—
what do they, what is their last resource ?
'T'hey Tow the f. Eds between the
different companies of the ' eflels of that
republic, which we bave all of tis sworn
to maintain, and we now swear that we
are ready to spend our last breath in her
defence. _
Citizens, if we were culpable, the ene
mies of the cause which we have bravely
and firmly defended, would readily have
madeu« return to France, to undergo the
puniftiment which the law inflifti on ail
Frenchmen who :ire traitors to their coun
try. Can there be any doubt of our patri-
Oiifm, alter having con bated the opinions
'■f the tr-itor Hlanchelaude, the flagitious
La V oiqniere, and many others whom we
'hall not forget to name to the National
Convention.
Fear the language, of reason; we who
address you are Frenchmen, we are your
rothers—we (wear to continue To, being
fi.-il perfnaded that when we fliall have ap
•eared before the tribunal of juilice. you
viil an hundred times repeat, "Where
ire our brothers the company of the Tu
piter ?" J
Would you not be surprized, citizens,
(honld >> - tell vou, that within two years
we nav, loft fifty rhotifand men, fightine
s o e'labudi order in a colony, which the
m0i1..-! country had entrusted to our care
Co oiH jrn s.
Hut how have they died, have they been
11 ■?' • ■ No ; 'tis not the fwerd
.lone. t bi;t si e and poison* has destroyed
ht m ; you ferk for justice vou will si.-d
t in pnfovs, and under the weight of irons;
uch aie .lie a: burary preceedings of those
v " arc '"nulled with the reins of 20-
vernment. *
At present it is impollible for us to in
form you of the whole truth of the sffair
-htlT nZ , hi)ve a PPeared before
that august Convention, it neyer
can bs known. For this reason, citizens
we « ,(li to return to France ; tiiat we may
nuke known the language of :rnth.
(Signed) f ;ie Company of Hie Juniter.
* Fernaps it is not k'town to every one.
tint numbers of tbcfl rave patriot:, fell „
lacrifke topoifon. ill t.'-.sirwiheand
vitluais; it is certainly of some confe
rence, that tile perp- trators of i'uch vil
lainny should be detected.
From the New-Youk Diary, of A..-
gust :
Citizen GENET. Mi::iper PUnlpMemi.
V£S?J he Fr,y,A A w""W,V. to Civ
WASHINGTON, Pn-Jideht of the li
fted States:
Sir,
JNI RUiTF.D in this part of the worl'
withthe interetts and , -hrsofthe Freml
people, as you are wiih th"in of tiieciti
''ens of America, I b [ 0
ountry. a d imposed it ~ <~; - c d dnu
1 i myfeil never to permit sv
•itions or ether motives son i-vn from th.
eneral weal to impede n., in „ lint ! con.
•.v the I :ie of duty. My cordt.it ha'
ccordingly been marked u itlt all the rner
ty and franknefs which ever charafterizc
i true republican. To you alone, throu^ 1
the Secretary of State, have I cr>mp! a i,.ed
the principle-; you have adopted and re
monftrated agamrt decilions hull have
•;> lulted therefrom. To you alone have I
ne. lared that the federal goverr.aient, fa,
11 0111 niamfelling any regard for „ur eo
nerous conduit towards this countrv—to,
:ne new advantages which We wereoif r
•ngto hercommerce-orforthe reiterate,
demon Orations of our real an<l difintereftcc
Iriendfhip, were faerificing our interests tc
thole of our enemies, by their interpreta
tion of the treaties which exist be'twcei
US. To you have I represented wiihoui
reserve, that this conduit did not appear t<
correspond with the views of the people ci
Amer.ca with their defile to observe « if,
u.ehty their public engagements or wit!:
trttr alreitionatc regard for tne caui • oi
liberty,npon which their very exigence an:
prosperity depend. Certain decifioin <,l
your tribunals and verdifls of your juries
d to the sentiments of your fellow ci
tizens publicly exprefled, might permil int
without a crime to draw this inference.
Nevertheless certain persons, actuate,
by views which time will develope, <U
pairing to attack my principles, have de
fended to pe fonal abule—ln hopes oi
withdrawing from me that esteem whicl
the public feel and avow for the represen
tative of the French republic. They pub-
I'fli with great warmth that I have infultec
>ou, and that I have threatened you with
an appeal to the people, as if you woulc
pei nut any one u ith impunity to treat you
« uli difrefpea, or as if the flighted hint ol
an appt al which, a magidratedefervincr ol
his h.gh office, ftould ardently desire wa
to you the greatell offence I could offer.
It is become necessary, Sir, to tliffipatc
.' le " culuilimes by truth, and publi
city.—l dare therefore to expeitfrom yom
c mdor and probity an explicit dedaratior
that. I have never intimated to you an in
tention of appealing to the people; thatii
I: n<)t c ''«e 'hat a difference in politic"
ftntiments has ever betrayed me to forcer
wwat was due to your character or to the
exalted reputation you had acquired bj
humbling a tyrant against whom you fonohl
m the ' alife of libei ty.' A publication^
vour answer will l, e the only reply whid
fliall be g.ren to those party-men; whe
never fail to confound the individual wit)
; £nf e ' Wl,ith tht> y too often makt
nfe of as a pretext for their zeal and a rea
son for dastardly appearing under anony
inous fjgnatures.
As to myfelf, I have always openly de
clared what I thought, and signed what ]
had written, and if others have fuppofet
they could advance my views, bv news
paper publications & paragraph: 'they an
much deceived— A good cause needs 11c
advocate 1 ,mr and truth will make i,
triumph, and ours must triumph in spite oi
, I " Tip ' a ." ble enemies, and the prefem
co.d indifference of some who were if
ancient iriends.
I have the honour, & c .
Mr. JEFFERSON'S Answer.
Philadelphia, Augu i ,6, i rq ,.
oJR, 7 '
THE Prefidenj ef the United State-.,
.J. leceived the letter which you ad-Ireffed
.0 htm from New-York, on the in ft.
anc! ram desired to observe to <on that \r
iiw'tic e!la/'ili(hed courfc fSS
mat.c charaften .wilding here, to have any
correfpoudence with him,_ 7 he Se«
wiVclwhe' ' St;; ' te, ls . the °rgan through
which thei■communication liquid pass.
, 'h* President does not conceive it to
him 't,Th thC <>f P rr P riel y or (l "ty for
on wh" l bear . ev ; ,,ence agaiuli a declarati
on which, whether made to him or others,
1 perhaps immaterial ; he therefore de
ciines interfering in the cafe.
1 have tiie honor to be,
With great refpedt,
Sir,
our most obedient.
And mo ft humble servant,
TWT-n-A "n, • TH ■ 7£FFERSOnI
'i-Plenipotentiary t
ot t.ie Republic of France. j
From the New-York Jovrnai.
Ruminating last evening upon the pre
r»r.>b ih ' P< ) r lUe ° f P " bl!c affairs - and their
; rubable htuation at the openir.n 0 f the
"ext century, I fell intb a sleep, during
>our Journal, contain"
Ste following paragraphs. and dated
• O Vl i' °'l Was P»t my hands :
'Monday ?'. 1 arnv<?d in this City, in
:" pr V r M "" bercne Highness
° r Ule .V nited States > ««
e day next will review the regular
t! Oop? winch compose this garrison.'
" y "me on before tlie circuit
B°reV? r , Vr -' ui K r > the trial of James
' lefi>ot, labourer, for carelefsiy treading
_ the eat toe of my Lord Ohio. The -
,• was found ;,uiity. but as the of
q"ite acc ' f ' t> ntal, and bis
■ drt> , nad already i: Aided on him fifty
,"' ' s ! ; c court fii:ed him only ,col. and
imprisoned lix months.
L, ;; ,'h C I <! and rank of thc pto
.ecutor, the humanity of the sentence can
not be too much extolled. His Lordlhip's '
i"e of°rh i 7-° f recovery, although
! .p.,", , P'lyfitians thinks the m;il ia
eilerday tvSs capitally eonvifted, by :t
; >"v/_r o! the jury, John Mifprilion, f»r
P, , a"' (° r Jy"Z with tilc Ulifti ess of
ihe j rotec.or s s ec ond son, the Dul<» of
~ r ' e - , t,re at efforts will be made to obtain
a pan ion, but it is feared, that the enor
f: y , h!S offence, with a fofpicion of its
! f t,llr<l or fourth time he Ins taken
his liberty with his Grace, wifl prevent
heir desired efFefl, (
•1 ;\s firft quarter s interest on the defer
,h. I . bec ;: meriue yesterday, but altho*
l--nd. poll window, house, and othei
htc'y d. h,w proved
| 1 'Uilvproduftive. it has been thought
be,, to poflpone its payment for a few
?h ■ • I a '""itabie augmentation of
uie ci\ ii lifl h;»s t.iken place. *
' Oil Sunday was delivered of a fine hov'
< jra ce the Duchess of Lifter Tlie
mother:, better than might have beenex- -
pec td after an operation so dangerous to
one of her quality.'
Several merchants lass week joined in a
run.on the rrotefn.rV bank (lately ,!«•
bank of the Ln.ted States.) The firil lord
Ot the treasury was in much consternation.
but by the injlruwevtaliiy of cents and
the run had not occafioned-a
Iway • PPage When ° Ur informa "t came
' f u " cla y 'act. being the birth dav of the
Proteaors lady, was celebrated" in this
city with becoming nttebiion Ko di
vine fe S vicewas performed.—The levee
ol her fiighnels Was remarkably crouded
Mie lookea uncommonly rhe.-.rful, co;i
---u ering it is the niauh month of her ores
"a"c.y- \ e'-enirg the theatre Was un
t finally In expeclation of h»r
Highness 5 company, r. ho, for the reafoi:
just mentioned, was obliged to forego thar
pleasure. " l "°-y
' Tt is laid Lady Charrplaire. a maid of
•'Onour to her Highness the Protec'torefs
wlfh'thJ" tr, eV e , afco »' Months Cine
the Dutcheis of Rve s'footman. The*
appearance of her Ltidyftip's wailt, with
the intimacy between her and the Dntchefs
give as air of authenticity to the report.''
o remedy the inconveniences auend
ing an elfflion on the death of every nr, -
tector, a bill will be brought in. at the
next feflion of congress, to make the office
herei.itary, and toefici ease annuai re
venue from five hundred thoHfand to one
million of dollars. It i certainly in po(H
hie for his highness to support the dignity
alwancl ' lUti ° n l ' P °" >' refe!,t " na)l
'It is now certain, that the Myor anj}Common Council of the state corporation
of Georgia (the office of governor being
aboliffoed) with the principal citizens of
Savannah, are impi ifoned for a debt
from lhat corporation upon an execution
issued out of the supreme court of the Pro
leftor. Our information adds, that fusts
multiply so fait againlt the dates' that new
gaols are building in every ward for tbe
better accommodation of the prisoners.'
1 We have not room to insert rbe whole
of the new treafen a£t: The principal new
treafjns created by the ftatuteare —Speak-
ing difrefpe£tfully of the Prote&or, his
lady and jfnie, whether legitimate or ille
gitimate —Attempting the life of either of
the lords of the hereditary council —of any
feiiator —of the lord chief-juft'ife, or of any
other seder al judge—To violate the cliaf
tity of the lady, daughters, aunts, or mis
tresses of either of the great officers of
fldte, or to propose any alteration in the
government, unless with the consent of a
majority of the officers abovementioned.
•The 90th and 95th regiments of infantry,
commanded by the Marquis of Ontario,
aie on their march against the mal -con
tents of Virginia. These rebellious and
turbulent people have had the temerity to
petition for a redress ot grievances. From
the gallantry of the Marquis, and the de
termined bravery of his troops, lately dif
playedon a fnnilar occasion in N. Carolina,
we cannot but flatter ourrelves that their
arm* will be crowned with complete suc
cess.'
'The hereditary council will meet in fu
ture at the new palace in Philadelphia.—
This superb edifice cost the moderate furn
of lix hundred thousand dollars, ten cents,
and five mills, which exceeded the emu
lation of the firft lord of the treasury only
by two dollars, three cents, and one mill.'
' 7 he principal alteration in the jury ac
is, making the verdict of a maj rity as
conclulive in criminal cafcs, as if the ju
rors had been tinanimons.'
« A few copies of the ast to ' restrain the
freedom of the press,' maj be had at this
effice.—'!!!
—No. I.—
" There is Something rotten in the Jlate of
Denmark."
WHEN my great ancestor made the
above declaration —no matter, whe
ther in real history or profitable fable—it
may, too often, be applied to all govern
ments.
My fellow citizens will agree wiih me,
that there is something rotten in every ad ■
jniniftration of Europe—will it then be
criminal to make a fair enquiry, as to our
own ? Can the examination do us any real
injury ? The fabric is alnsofl new—if it is
unsound, there must have been some
bad materials in its composition : if it
is weak, lome original fault, in its con
ftruftion : if injured, there must be bad
management, by some part of the family,
who h -vc had the care of it—leaving it to
the good sense of the people to decide 011
the fact, it (hall be my province to state to
them, fo-ne material and striking instances
of past mismanagement, in the government
as their affairs—fome notorious abnfes of
their confidence —not to look back for jus
tice, but to be on their guard, for the fu
ture. to prevent them.
I am a federalift, an advocate for unity
of empire—l do not with to injure our fe
deral government —I vvifh to correfl and
amend it—if it is tolerably good, may the
people preft-rve it so. But it wiil soon
grow worse, if we do not watch it.
Set it down as a maxim, my fellow citi
sspns, that eve'y nation under heaven, let
their government be ever so good will
soon find it perverted and corrupted, if
the people are not continually active to pre
vent it. Do we not fee the fa£t every hour
.—that when the heir of an estate leaves the
management of it to agents, they soon ma
nage it for tbtmfelves —it he lets them
have long pofleffion, they will dispute his
title deeds, and call it their own.
Ininy future letters, I will demonstrate
the force of this maxim—at piefent, a
matter of high import, preffeson my mind,
as neceflary for our immediate decifios.
The pretended misunderstanding betweer
our firft magistrate, and the French mimf
ter, may and will be attended with tht
word of consequences, if not iiiflantly done
away. Our union was never more necef
faiy—it was never more feverelv attacker
—nothing, that I can figure to my imagi
nation, could more completely g'ut the
malignant pride and wishes of our Ameri
*in tories, and their Englilh associates.
than a fcrious dispute between France anc!
America. By our alliance, they have been
reduced to infignificance and ihame—by
our divisions tliey may reaflume their
haughtiness and importance. It is evident
that the lie they have propagated, is be
lieved, even by the Preiident, by Mr. Jay.
and Mr. King ; of course, it has had credit
among the people. Ask the President, il
the minister made such a declaration to
|jj m —his answer implies a negative—Ja>
and King fay they heard it from Hamilton
Hamilton heard it from Knox—Knox
heard it from Mifflin—Mifflin from his fe
cretary —his secretary from God knows
W here is,the man then who has heard it?
If those principal officers ot our govern
ment, do not, openly, and immediately.,
acknowledge this matter to be a lie—that
they were betrayed into a bel.ef of it, t|iey
may expeit their fellow citizens will form
a molt unfavourable conclulipn. i hey
will, and ought to suppose, that the thief
leaders of our- administration, have from
inclination, given weight to the vile re
port, ; wishing to find a pretence lor their
cold conduct towards our flittering allies.
—Alas 1 what a change in the language
of our governors ! When we wanted
men. money and arms, these generous
Frenchmen were ourgreat and good friends
—we the grateful sons of freedom ready to
spill onr blood in payment, for efficient
aid. Mr. Genet has too much delicacy to
reproach us—but feeling as I do, all the
love and gratitude I felt, as a citizen in
1778, I may freely express my opinion. I
difllke, and disapprove, not only the pro
clamation, but the tenor of the conduct o'
our executive towards France, for some
time pad. Wehave-fent a minister there,
who has inceffanily abused the National
Convention, with illiberal epithets and
bitterness ; who has offended their minis
ters not to be forgiven—and he is con
tinued again ft the will of the nation. In
dead of offering them our services, one oj
nur admimftration is supposed to be now
ivritinga gainst their-conftruftion of one of
the molt disinterested and generous treaties
that ever a nation conceived or executed.
I Will venture to fay, that had the hearts
us the honest whigs, w lw» fought our bat
tles ; who carried our President 10 victory
and tame, 011 bare feet, been flittered K
"peak, at ihis important crisis, their lan
milage would have been nearly this.Brave
and worthy Frenchmen, we do not forget
nor do we wifhtodeny, that the land* we
now pofleft, the peace we now enjoy, the
wealth we now acquire, the very libertj
we so highly value, was Jeciired by you-.
tell us how to repay thedebt of gratitude.'
They would have laid to England, "We
have 110 politive with .0 do you injury we
lave forgiven your fins, though of crimfor
dye, in the blood of our country ; but yet
have no claims on our friendlhip, having al
ied yourlelves to the highway robbers of
the world ; be Satisfied if we take 110 part
igainft you." I will, for example fake,
uppofe the cafe of an individual. Had 1
blind a man, in the hands of a ruffian, who
lad robbed his house, bound his children,
ind was, that moment, aiming a blow,
hatmuft have ended his life and the hopes
jf his family—in a word,faved him, and
dl that he bad, from perdition: what
.vould be my feelings and language, if he,
n turn, saw me attacked by barbarians ;
liould I not fairly expert him to fly to my
illiftance ? ought he not to lend me a
'word ? Could I expea him to hold my
lands, to please them, or the language of
mmility tu sooth their wrath? Could 1
?xpe£t him to snatch up his tables of arith
netic to know whether his interest lay
jgainft me or my afl'aflins : taking into
he balance, the a customer, or in
urance against a broken head ; how could
[ refrain calling him a dirty calculating
coundrel, who ought to have perifiied un
ler the hands of his enemy 1
Aug. 26. HAMLET.
NEW-YORK, August 22.
Every good republican cannot be other
wise than highly piealed with the manly
ind firm.letter of Citizen Genet, which
tppeared yefteiday. Instead of defct;nd
ng to a newspaper controversy with his
rweinies, he boldly appeals to the only per
-011 who could know . tor a refutation of
he charge—while his letter breathes the
anguage of a man, sensible to the indignity
iffered him : it does not merely lolicit the
President's intervention, or throw a veil
D»er his palt conduct. He reminds him
if the remonstrances he has had occasion
;o make, but calls 011 him as a man ofpro
jity, to deny the actuation, of his threat
ening to appeal to the people. It is to be
amented that it did not comport with the
President's dignity, tu answer the letter
limfelf. Some think that a letter from
:he President to a Minifler from the firlt
nation on earth, when appl; ing to him on
3 per/onal and confidential, and not on an
official or diplomatic fubjotl, would not
hzve derogated from his honor, more than
writing to Mr. Crugar, as chairman of tie
meeting in front of Trinity Church. There
was a liine when the President would
have afled a less stately part, Jed'tempora
mutautur et nos muiamuv cum illis!
From Mr. Jefferfon's answer, it appears
that the President could, if he hud pleased,
;>ear evidence against the declaration ot
Mr. Jay and Mr. King: as he withheld
this teltimony, it w«uld have been in cha
ra&er, to have been equally tenacious ol
his opinion. It was for a fact, not an opi
nion, that citizen Genet applied to him.
No part of citizen Genet's letter to the
President has given greater oiience to
itie good people of this city, than that
in which he calls his Britannic Majefly a
tyrant-—whatever America might have
once thought of this grtat perl'onage, flu
now th inks him a very clever fellow: Citi
zen Genet, w ill please therefore, to ex
punge this exceptionable expreflion in the
next publication of his letter or he wil
hear something from a legion of citizens 1
It is high time the crown on the upper
extremity of the spire of St. George';
Chapel flwjuW be taken down, V/ithom
administering liints for that purpose thro'
the public prints. The high churchmen
afl'ert that it is not very easily taken down,
owing to the crown's being fixed to the
fame spindle which runs through the iron
work below, and that it turns with the
vane. Notwitliftanding these difficulties
the nuijance complained of might be easily
done away, and at a (mail expense, by co
vering the crown over with the cap of Li
berty. This would make a much better
appearance than that relique of tyranny,
and would convince our fellow citizens, as
w ell as foreigners, that the congregation
is not so loyal and warmly attached to
crowned heads, as people in general ima
gine. We are told of a church.jn Phila
delphia with a mitre on the fjiire. Jt is
high time such baubles were taken down,
as they are an abomination in the eyes ol
every true republican.
By fimdry letters from an officer in tin
vjejlern country, to. a gentleman in Staun
ton, (Virginia) dated July 2, 1793, ve
learn the following : —
" That general Wayne, with about eocc
men, had arrived at fort Walhington on
the 7th of May, and more w ere expected ;
they encamped 011 the banks of the Ohio,
but were not expefled to remain there
long. Gen. Wilkirifon, on the 27th oi
May, was encamped, with a few companies
of infantry and one of artillery at Lud
low's (on Mill Creek) five miles advanced
of Fort Walhington : he had opened a
road from fort Walhington to Fort Ha
milton (about 27 or 28 n.iiei) 4ofcet wide,
and cleared of everv obflruction. A few
days previous to this, capt. Cufhing had
been out at Forts Jefferfon and St. Clair,
picking cut the invalids and all such as
were riot fit fcr a£lua! service. These are to
£0 to gai rifons, and the companies from
which ihey are taken, will be sided up
with those from the garrison- fit for in.me
diate service. A large quunity of corn is
taken toFort J fferfon, where it is expect
ed the greater part of the army will soon
be. In the beginning of June, colone!
Strong, with a detachment of 500 men.
ttpened a road as wide and in like manner
is the one formed to Fort Jefferfon, where
hey were expected to Hay for the purpose
if making hay : it was much apprehended
his detachment would havebeen attacked,
aut there was not the leaf! iign of an ene
my j several of the men loft thenifeves,
and on their return said they were chafed
3y Indians, but it is probable this was ail
i fiction. Every poflible preparation was
"naking for a campaign, but it would be
Pine time before Ihe conference of the
reaty would be known, and the neicflary
orders from the war department could
each the army, if war was to be carried
jn."
~P H I L A I) E~L P HI A.
Wednesday, August 28.
A Fhsnch paper contains the- following
remark :—' \V e have not a single ally ; or,
to speak more truly, the people of ever)
country are our allies, but thc governments
are our enemies.'
A correspondent observes, that the above
Dbfervation applies with peculiar propriety
and truth to this country. We find at lead
Tome of the principal officers of our go
vernment not only waging war against the
principles of the French revolution by
words and deeds, but are endeavouring tu
(lit up the people to an opposition by ca
lumniating the mimffer, and Cowing the
feeds of distrust and jealoufy—Witnets the
monarchical Pacificus, and the inlidious
No-Jacobin, and others —the work of one
pen. Let it be aiked whether the public
fives 3500 dollars per year to an officer tc
employ part of his time in vilifying repub
licans, and fpreadirg the tares 01 ariltu
craey and monarchy in a country which
lias in all probability (heltered him from
' poverty and infignificance.'
Citizen G. A. CHKRUI, Agent of the
French Republic at Alexandria, to the
Citizens of the United States —Alexan-
dria, Aug 20.
"IT is useless to put yon in mind of tlx
plots that the Ariltocfats have formed foi
many years past the Republican:
and the Friends to Liberty. You are not
igrWrant of the blood these cruel allafiin:
have spilt, in every part of France, in la
crificing and putting to the sword those
brave citizens that gold could not corrupt.
Open your eyes, and know that this in
famous coalition of seditious men cxilts in
this continent, and that their design is tc
eftablifli a new theatre of cruelty and ca
lamity. I was told yesterday, by peep'.e
worthy of faith, and known by. their pa
triotism, that ill-intentioned people, gran
gers to this country, have publithed inia
inous calumnies against Citizen Genet,
Minilter Plenipotentiary from the French
Republic in the United Stales of America,
which are fufficieilt to break for ever the
union that now exiils between the two
Republics, and to operate the ruin of par
wile and virtuous Miniller.
It is my duty to make al! ncceffiry in
quiries to discover the authors of such an
1 odious accufatiqn; and it. is with fatisfao
tion 1 hear that this piiSßcaticr. !:r,s net
been made by American citizens.
It is in the name of Liberty, that every
virtuous man ought to revere, I beg tie
American citizens, our brothers, to lhi:c
their hearts against all tie (editions and
calumnious discourses which they may hear
against the honour and dignity cf the re
sectable Citizen Genet, and to look upon
the author* of such seditions reports; as
men bribed by our common enemies, win*
reek nothing elle but to diftionoursud abo
i tfh the French Republic, and to (pread
:livilion and discord betwtea the iv>»
powers. 1
Extrall of a letter from N. Yori. At:™. 20-
" The city is as quiet as if there wire
,10 foreigners here. The French are re
markable for their civility, ami peaceable
einperate behaviour. TiioOjrfi there are
ibove 5000, one would not, from the noise
ivhich is made, suppose there v. crs sc.—
They generally return on board at seven
j'cluck. The Mayor was ' reqioeited by
bme persons, who app: ehnttied diftur
>ance, that he would defile the Admiral 10
irder all his men on board at an t-ariy
sour. The Mayor (aid it was hard to
onfine them on board the fleet in fucit
.varm weather, anc! while tin y continued
o b»haveas they have done, lie ftottldnot:
nterfere.—So you fee, they 3re not wild
tten, ready to prey en the delcncelefs."
Particulars relative to the flopping of the
Jloop AP.ive, a Britijh 'vcffcl, at Char-
Is/ton, ihe captpin of z-.h::h was at
tempting to arm her in that port.
August gi.
Vhe wailike appearance of the (loop
Ailive, William Mnrlhall, j after, from.
Montego Bay, occasioned fufpition in the
..reads of theft citizens,who, 10 their ere
:lit, are tenac'tousof their country's honor."
No existing i: eaty warranting a Britifn
vt flfel to r.rm in an American port, in ad
dition to thePrelidcnt's proclamation, cap
:ain Marshall's meafnres soon because ge
aerally known. The republican society,
which appears to be but a patriotic aflem
-ilage of the citizens of Charleften, f*ln
;hemfelyes deeply intereded. But wir.lt.
lot less attention to the majeily of private
irtue, than to public order, were their
jroceedings directed.
Mr. Edward penman, of the Iroufe of
Vfeflrs. James and 1 iKvartl Penman, had
aken an affidavit before Juflice Cunning—
on, that the veflel in queftiori ",vas con
•gned to him for tl)e sole purpose of load
ng with rive—that (he had 110 commiffior*.
>r letter of marque, or meant to ast ire.
my refpeft as a privateer, or had guns or
jther warlike {lores of (lis providing.
Capt. Marfllall alio took his affidavit of
laving no intention of arming his veflel—
lenied her having warlike (lores or a com—
nifficm either as a letter of marque or pri
vateer..
A committee was appointed on Tuesday
■vening, to wait on Mr. Penman, awl after
nqtiiry into the circjtn ftancet, demanded
hat the arms and military (lores said to bo
>11 boatd the Aclive, be. reianded : Mr.
penman declared his ignorance of the in—
entions of the captain, till within a few
lours —said the captain ncttd without hia
>rders, and gave hr word of honour as a
onfignee, to order the capuin to re-land
lis military accoutrement"s.
The written order of Mr. Penman to>
Dapt. Marfliall, to difarnl his vefiei was.
hewn and acknowledged to (ome gentle—
nen by the captain, accompanied with
leciaration tin r he would parr them only
>y force of arms. A >v.i tit p. cf the society
jvas held 'cd Wednesday evening, and a.
efoiufion entered into, upon a general
ip'Hiion of its legality. from the well
mown maxim, 'that pi i.ate jtiftice mult
•he place to public ficurity, 1 of obliging;
he captain to con ply with the law of na
tions. Another committee was appointedl
0 visit Capt. Marshall, on ThuiTday. morn—
lig, iit the name of th • republican (ociety,,
md demand his answer, whether or noc
le would comply with the afore nienti
)iied requifttion, allowing him till eighir
j'clock. He enquired by w hat authority
hey came—he said perhttps he would obey
he governor's commands, and used many
More evaflve politious. I'pun theit urging
he neccffity of a decifire anfuter, he told
hem he would not gi e up hisguns, &Ci.
iil obliged to by force of arms. The com
nittee made their report, and the unani
nous relblve ot the focicty determined the
;vent. Capt. Cnnnington's troop ancJ
1 detachment of the battalion of artillery
11 their uniform, attended as a guard, and
;he veflel, by the citizcns. w as boarded ant!
.varped in .withoutoppolition. The greatefi:
jolitenels was (hewn to the captain, buthis
lehaviour favoured I'trongly of obstinacy—
The following (lores were landed & fafely
:ondutt£d to thelaboratory ol'the artillery,
—3 (is., pounders double fortified, 2
:hree ditto, 4 fwivcls, 325 1 ound (hot»
"ome grape (liot, and a Dumber of pistol
Dails.
Three unfiniflied carringfs, worms, &c.
were found by a detachment of the horse
in a blacksmith's fliop, which were to be
lent ou board by Tuesday next, nndfeventy
men were to be put 011 bo«tJ when (he
(hould have pafli-d the har.
Too much cannot bo- said upon the mo
dsration oi aitusUv (UKeraed intl is After lind'ng the stores,
tie officers declared their readinc-fs to fta>
fej Capt. Marlhall, if he thought hi ml: If
in danger of insult or injury. The vefill
tl ey . tfered to replace in the ft re am ; bu
a men were in pay, Capt. Mariliall told
tkem it was unnecdr.ry—he would there
take charge of her again, and they ac
cordingly left her to his direction.
A number of the inhabitants of Newark,
in New Jersey, have publiiiied their re
solves, figuifying their approbation of the
P. elidc-nt's proclamation, enjoining neu
trality ot conduct towards the powers at
Mar in Europe. A number of the citi
zens of Hartford have addrefled the Preli
dent 011 the fame fu bjett, and received kn
answer.
Advices from Spain fay, that an impor
tant engagement had taken place between
two diviiions of tht Portuguese fleet, while
lij on their way to join the combined fqua
di oils of Spa'rn and England, destined for
the capture ot Brest. 1 lie engagement is
said to have continued several hours, and
much damage done beiore the mifiake was
tl; (covered.
We learn from St. Kitts, that nineteen
L.i of American velieis were lying in Baf
ieterre road in that island, on the 25th of
July, carried in by force, and detained
without the fliadow ofcanle. The Si. Kitts
-privateeri are said 'o be htted out by lour
villains of that island, viz. Arcti.bald r.f
-dule, judge of the admiralty, Benjamin
Amory, Joseph Amory, and Antaony So
inerall.
By the brig Mary, capt. Barber, from
St. Kitts, lalf from St. Eulfauu-, in IS
<iays, we . re informed, that 011 the tfl ol
Aligiilt, failtd from Baflettrre, St. Kitt.-,
the British Jul) fl et of merchantmen , con
fining of 150 fail, convoyed by the iliij.
Queen, adnnn.l G lrdil; r, 01 98 tin) . th.
V tike of 90, lind.r a jury maiiimalt,
difmafled before M rtimque , three 74
•svith the Ti ully of 60 Ulyiiea 01 40 tin ,
and five frigates.— Ihe Mary pfi o t
fleet in the pallage
Admiral Gardner wth two 74' and tun
frigates, were to f pirate a id cunvoy a
part of the fleet to H tl fax, . here it w -
said he was to pa the In:, -ic .Re month
and employ the 74's and frigates t. ci 1; Ir
off the coalt ot the United to protedt
the British trade from Fiencl; privateers.
We hear from Spain, (via Gibraltar)
that the fleet under lord Hen ci failed from
Gibraltar the 2d of Julv. to form tht
blockade of the touch poi ts ot France, in
union w ; th the Spanlli fleet from Cadiz
It \vas said their chief intention was to
bombard Toulon, for which pnrpofe gun
boats and floating batteries were preparing
at Carthagena.
" One would imagine that the robberies
committed by the pirates of /Jamaica, An
tigua, Bermuda, Providence, &c. upon tiie
property ot our citizens, deserved some
attention. It is presumable that it i . not
unknown,the manner in whichourckizena
are treated in thofi? places ; how they are
robbed of tiieir property, under pretexts,
and by contrivances, that would disgrace
Algerines—liovv their persons have been
thrown into jails, and loaded with mana
cles; In a word, that our commerce fuf
fers every depredation which pirates can
commit, and our citizens every injury,
■which malice can infliit. But, alas! the
spirit and vigilance of our government ap
pear to point only one way ! We mult be
neutral at the expehfe of all we have—Tin
spirit and energy of the government appeal
to be so absorbed in punithing disobedient
citizens, that it has become qui e callous to
foreign insult and injury—Unless indeed,
the Little Democrat fli .uld bring an Ame
rican velfel to, and then we are all fir*.—
John Feuno, and his coadjutors, are never
tired ot deprecating the insult. If the go
vernment will not f'tep forw aril u ith spirit,
end redress the injuries which ou r citizen.-
are daily experiencing, those who are Hi
injured \\ ill seek their own remtdy, tho 1
treaties and proclama ions are held up/
t rro'etn.—That government which can
-11 t. or wll nor, affoid protection, ha 110
claim to obedience."
[y/'g. CkroA.J
JExtralt of a letter fi-m Neivurk. A: g. 24
" In every village, town, and city on
this continent, there exids a ness 11 (del
tories, and their brethren, feeler ; paper
jobbers, who take upon them, whenever
the ihadow of occasion offers, not only to
speak what they prefu ne to call the It-iife
of the public, but to publijh their crudi: ; es
to the wo ■1 as such. This has recently
proved the cafe in many inlfances, with
relpecl to certain governmental inj /trillions,
tending, in the effimation of many, to in
fringe an important article of the treaty, ot
an ity and commerce with France ; which
have been re-echoed by this unprincipled
/toand, as the fenfeof the people, from eve
ry quarter where they have a foothold. It
n'ight be proper to intimate to those a<l
drefs-mongers, that their t<nmes, individu
ally, would be a delirable appendage to
the ; r peiformances, as we Ihould then be
eniL (to diltinguilh the people of a place
from a number of characters, who, in ge
neral, exifl by fleecing, cajoling, and over
reaching " the people."
Ext rail of a letter fr»»\ a gentleman in
Londonderry, to his friend m this town.
" I am forty to inform you that bulinef
of all forts is at a ftarfd. There is neither
credit nor confidence among the mercan
tile people;—and no wonder indeed it
itioiild be so. Failures are every day hap
pening, efpeciully in the great mercantile
towns; anil to take a view of the critical
lituation of Ireland, and indeed Europe ir
general, it wears a very gloomy appear
ance.
" You will fee by the papers that I fenc
with this letter, the turn that our glorioui
militia bufmefs has taken. The peafailtrj
in different parts o: the kingdom have ta
ken up arms in open and declared oppositi
on to the embodying the militia. Skir
inifiles happen as often between then am
the military, as if they were the advancec
guards of two contending armies.
■'Tile Roman Catholics seem to havt
borrowed a leifon from the French;—ii
some places they have nailed up their cha
pel doors, in others tney have btiniihec
:heir clergy, and superstition, thank God.
is verging so fa ft to a close, that some 01
the molt bigotted Papilt:, do not look upoi:
it as a fin to tuck up by the neck, some oj
;heir own prielts, who have been molt for
ward in aiding government to rivet the
.flams of the people of this unhappy conn
try, by enforcing a vagabond militia. 1 hi;
.. an absolute fact—one or two of them
have met their juit reward in the manner J
tell you."
'I'h»' brijßetfey, from St. Fu(latia,a few
lays ago ott the Capes ot Delaware, wa
brought to by an armed brig, in compa
..y «ih a two decker, then at a diltancc
neither lhewing qny colours; but by theii
pianatuverii l ,', he fuppof'ed to be French.
A'pilot arrived here alf'o informs u-, thai
0 1 hurlilay lalt, he was told by a Reed)
1 (land pilot, who was then coming fron
iea* that he had seen two British 74's, ont
i>f which was called the He£tor, then 1
> ■ le..gUes off the Delaware Capes ; saw
1- Democrat, Carmagnole, and the fiiij
v 1 and Sufaii at New Castle and the L:
Noinialide this fide of Marcus Hook.
I'he n.vv brig Aurora, captain Strong
one o the packets in rile Philadelphia anc
Charleiton trade, was loft on the 14th inlt
1.1 a heavy gale of vv ind, on Ocracock Dar
>ii h. r pafl'age to this pl-.ee; crew aildpaf
i'rjigers laved.
\\ e from Cape Francois, that thai
place is totaliy deserted by the whites, anc
the piace solely pofl'elfed by the mulattoe:
mid negroes,under the direction of the civi
:omnii(lionert. —The mulattoes had alft
jot poffclfion of the fort at Aux Cayes, bui
it was supposed they would not inju:e tlx
town.
A veflel is arrived at New-York thai
eft Liverpool the 13th of June. Such wa
the lituation of things in England at thai
late, that a national revolution appearec
inevitable.
Yelterday, agreeable to adjournment
the two branches of the General Affembli
3f Pennfvlvama convened at the Hate houfi
in this city. -
The diltrefies of the miserable refugee:
rrom Cape Francois, one might imagine
cvould excite sentiments of sympathy in th<
110 ft ferocious of mankind. Not luch i:
the cafe with the piraticil inhabitants o:
New Providence, who plunder men, wo
men, and childred of the last fai tiling foi
their support in a fh'.inge land.
" Meflieurs jay and Kingffaysa New-
York paper) will be pleased to take notice
that the public are anxioully waiting foi
further intelligence concerning the report:
that have bee • circulated to the difadvan
t3ge of Citizen Genet'.vchara£ter, and thai
it they do riot come forward and state the
particulars (as has been already hinted;
he republicansol New-York will conlidei
tliemas the original foui;ders &propagators
of reports, railed only out of malice.&ha
tred 10 the caiift o! tret dom iH w liich France
is engaged: But perhaps the gentlemen(be
ing big men; may think hat their hare
word, w thout any proof w nattver, is fulfi-
; but we a Ik, u hat is their word more
hail the wold of anv other man? and
r herefore if ihey do not untold the whole
ir the matter to the-public, we muff attri
bute all the ntifchiti which has or may a
r'fe in consequence of thereport, to them ;
and for the future, view them as men dan
gerous to, a'.d enemies of a republican
government."
(Japt.Korton, of the schooner Robin, ar
rived here Iralt Sunday from Tortuga, from
which place he failed the 7th inflaut ; and
b ought aw ay 22 French palfengers, moll
in whom had been driven away by the dif
afters of the C.,pe. They had also about
19 or 2onegroes. ard a ccnfiderable sum
ot money, with fomelitlle other property,
which they had saved ; But 011 the Bih
following, fell in with a British Bahama
privateer flrop of fix guns, commanded by
Francis Tticker; who boarded captain
Korton, and made prisoners of all his sail
ors, leaving only the captain and mate on
board the schooner Robin. They then
searched every where for French property;
& plundered the unfortunatepaflengers of
53,100 livres, some plate, 18 negroes, and.
in fliort, whatever they chefe to takeaway,
—and did not leave the molt trifling arti
cle belonging to men, women, and chil
dren. 1 hey offered a largi bribe to the
mate, John Brock, if he would discover
' ver y tiling he knew refpeAing the French
property on board, but he despised such a
conduct. 1 lav ng detained captain Horton
jO lionrs, they let liis Tailors again on board
the Ichooner, and permltted"her to pro
ceed.
I lie ports of M irtinico, since the ex.
pulfion of tha t.nglilh, and French ar'rlto
ciats, are opened to American veflels, with
every species of country produce. i
I fie fliip Ann and Susan, with 405 pas
sengers on board, from Londonderry, is
new lying at Newcastle in polleffion of the
two t reneli privateers Democrat and Car
magnole— Ihe pafi-ngers aud property on
board are claimed as Britilh.
Lexington, (Kentucky) July.
About the 20th of May fait, a boal
bound to the Illinois from Kentucky, wa:
t.;.:en by the Ind ansnear the mouth of the
Ohio; there were fix men on board, the
whole of which were killed, their head:
and hands cut olf, and their bodies ripl
open ; the boac was loaded principally witr
nterchandife.
By a gentleman who arrived in town or
I 11 delay last, from Cumberland, we art
informed that just before he left that placc,
ajbn of general Kobei tfon's arrived there
from the Chic:ia:aw nation, with infor
mation of great offers having been made
by the Spaniards to that nation, to induce
them to break with the United States,
which offers were treateel with contempi
by the chiefs of the nation, anel elpeciall}
the Mountain Leaders.
Mr. Robertfon further informs, that a
bout 400 Creeks and Gherokees had latel}
palfeei by thai nation toward the Miffifippi
Baltimore, Aug; 16.—Yesterday t e ho
horable Judge Paca pronounced his de
cree, against the jifrifdiciion of the court
of admiralty of this country, to take cog
nizance ot the legality of captures, b'
French fliips ot war, or privateers, or an'
of the belligerent powers. The qneflioi
came before the court upon the pleading
1 übjoined, which from the importance o
the fubjeft, we have procured, and prefen
to our readers. The cause received even
support ot which it was susceptible, 01
either fide, from the arguments of Mr
Smith, for the 1 i bell ants, and Mr. Win
Chester and Mr. Chase, for the cap
tors, which took up three days. The
judge, m a very learned and elaborate opin
ion. unfolded his reasons against thejurif
(iictiun of the court, in a manner, that w (
hope will leave our allies to the lull enjoy
ment ol their acquisitions, without furthei
nioleltation, under the treaty of amity anc
commerce.
Fresh Anecdote.
Three French patriots, over a bottle o
wine, were very cheer'full on Monday l*f
at a public house in Front (treet. The con
vei fation turning on po itics, the Preli
dent's proclamation became a part of the
topic ot discourse. One of the 'company
observed that this proclamation was of in
limte service to the Printers, that in th<
present dearth of intelligence nothing
but the proclamation could have sup
ported so many newspapers, anel that
w ere he a printer, he would call the typo
graphic craft together, and recommend t<
them to address an humble, and dutifu
petition to the President, requesting oi
him that he would be graciously pleased tc
iflue another proclamation soon, and ii
four months more, another, for theii
daily bread, so as to give them and the
world at large, four proclamations per an
num!
Troin theN. York Daily Advertiser.'
IF I had entertained any doubts refpect
ng the propriety of citizen Genet's lettei
:o the President, the indignation discover
?d by the tories, would have removec
•hem. 1 hey ftigir.atize it as impertinent
and are altonilf .eel, that 'their worthy' Pre
lident did not resent the insult, either b)
ordering the marfiiall to arrelt Geuet 01
by fending h.m ftraigluway to his own
country. '•What 1 iufenefs,"iay they, "iua
pitiful minilter representing a paltry re
public of 25 millions of pet .tmaitres and
frog-eaters, to appeal to the President for a
refutation of the charges brought againil
him 1 What con uinmate aucacity this
ral'cally French de*mucrat mult posits,, to
think the great Waliiington would condes
cend to bear teliiinuriy in his contempti
ble eaufe ! —and to dare in contravention
of e(ta :lillied rules to address a letter im
mediately to the chief magiltrate of the
United States ! What an indignity to our
beloved general, to put him to the trouble
of breaking the seal himfplf? Is any
crowned head ever addrelled but through
tie intervention of a Secretary ?
1 his might have been, born j but he
dares even to reason with the President
and contemptuously recapitulates his for
mer arguments. In his official remon-
Itrances, he brings in aid, to support
his own conltru£tions, the decilions of
our courts, anel the verdicts of our juries ;
he dare*even te> remind the President 01
what trance has dune fe>r this country j of
her friendtbip for it; and gives a broael
hint, that our exifteuceasa nation depends
on our attachment to liberty, a ll
this might have been palled over, but fa
hisinfolence in calling by the odious epi«
thet of tyrant the liieekelt and mildefl fo
vereigu who ever wielded the Britirh
lceptre. Buc then the anfvver of the Preli-.
dene—what diguity in every line—hov\r
properly does ;he President' observe his
diflarice, &c. See. 11
1 frefe, MefTrs. Printers, are precisely the
tory effulions which thele papers have gi
vfen birth to. Those which iefpe£l Genet
or his country, are no doubt made with all
pofiible sincerity. But when a tory laviflies
nis endearing epithets on the illusions de~
tender ot his country's liberties, it brings
to recollection the devil's flattery of our
Saviour, when seated on the pinnacle ot the
temple : the fame answer of kt get ihte
hence Satan" will, we hope, be returned
to every paraiite of this description.
A WHIG.
iDireSed to the ITditor of the National
GifiETTE. J
gemote from immediate information to
ascertain the tad, whether or hot a co
py right has been claimed or obtained for
the j idj.es opinions on the suability of a
fate, and relying that your cerrefpondent
1 ■ <<>. would not alfert to the contrary if
one had been obtained, I readily comply
with Ins recjueft; I hough he may be allur
ed my informants were too relpeftable to
ck'tire to deceive Or impose-but such an
idea has been adopted ; lam happy to be
undeceived, and doubt not we (hall now
loon lee the opinions of the judges, 011 that
lifted tant qUelHun ' more generally pub-
A Citizen of the U. States.
— "I!
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
To the person who, under thefigrtature Ci
wrote again Jonathan pindar, iii
last Saturday's Cjazette of tile United
States.
AT Jonathan's verses Tome puppies will
growl,
While others attack witha yell and a howl-
But know, Miller C.
I is the Muse .> decree, [known,
That Jonathan's Stanzas (hall live and be
When youi'% to the bog-lioufe of Pluto are
gone.
No federal num-fcull his verses indites ;
He fjys what he thinks, aud he thinks
what he writes:
Not an ii.Jett in place,
But his ptnlhall disgrace ;
Their tools, and their trotters, he holds ill
disdain, [to reign.
And laughs at fume folks that are fclieming
All jobbers in pnper, his lashes (hall feel,
And lharpers in ofiice, ijiail whimper and
fqileel:
At a flirt of his pen,
The lies of big Ben,
Shall meet the reward they have long been
In i'earth of. [off.
While he and his tories to Beelzebub march
THE PROBATIONARY ODES Or .JONA
THAN PINDAR, ES<i. CONTINUED.
ODE XI.
la Atlas; being the feeond part of
Ode 11.
Jonathan recanteth his former errors «
—Uifdofeth the secrets of a great afllm
bly Again donbteth, and cuncludetfi
with an apt Simile.
A TLAS ! 'tis true that once I said,
You prop the States up, with your headi
but I was wrong to do't:
My recantation, then, believe,
And ti uit me,'what I now perceive
Youv'e trod them under foot. '
'Twas you, that in Conventionftrft
Pronoune'd the government accurfl,
YV hilft sov erkiON i hey remain'd •
Then boldly movM to knock them down
And crujh them all beneath a 1 111; o nE
Or, to it have them chain'd.*
Sure, 'twas enough to flrike them dumb.
1 o put them under Sheriffs Thumb
Like ctilprits vile and bate : '
What though they are not ha: g'd at yet ?
Still, two to one, perhaps you'd bet
That it will be the cafe.f
But after all—no doubt, Irate
TOO high your influence in the State *
Nay, I'll be sworn, 'tis so ; '
The town-clock tells us when to dine •
The weights that move its hands' and
THINE
Play out sf light, below!
* This fact has been so often afjerted
without being ever contrndided, that there
ca " r £;n ia in little doubt of its authenticity.
t Execution, fays Lord Coke, is the end
ol the law : it would have been happy for
America, had the convention rc Heeled
how this end was to be obtained againlt a
STATE. "The following verse added to the Mar
seillo! s Hy n, watcomp ofed by
Citizen TmomassCn, Lieutenant Colo
nel of the National Gendarmerie, & sung
on the 10th inft.
FRANGA IS,que ces joursmemorables,
Soient le fceau de notre union ;
Ameriquains incompar-ibies
O Vertueufe nation ! Bis.
Eaifons le3 fernjens inviolables,
De relter a jamais unis,
Que, tousles ty.ans reunis,
Tombent sous nos coups redoutables.
Aux armes Citoyens,fornuz vos bataillom
Marches, Marchons,
Qri'nn fang impur abreuve tos fillons.
IMITATED*
Frenchmen, too long the sport of
fadtions,
This day flionld quench fell discord's flame
Americans, wliofe virtuous actions,
Excel the proudest nations' claim.
Let us forever be united,
Conipiring kings our wrath shall dread;
Our thunders burlting on theiv head,
Shall hurl them from their thrones af
frighted.
Arm, Citizens, to arms !
Arran e the warlike band ;
March on, march on,
With blood impure,
Imbrue your thirfly land!
j,
HISTORY OF the BOHON UPAS.
(Concluded, from our lajl.j
THE violent effedt of ihe poison at so
great a dillance from the tree, cer
tainly appears surprizing, and almost in
credible ; and efpeciaily when we consider,
that it is possible for delinquents who ap
proach the tree, to return alive. My
■wonder, however, in a great mafure
■ceased, after I had made the following
observations : —-I have said before, that
malefa&ors ere inftiudted to go to the
tree witli the wind, and to return againll
the wind. When the wind continues to
blow from the fame quarter while the
criminal travels 30 or 36 miles, if he be
not far pafled the prime of life, and of a
good conllitution, he certainly survives.
But what proves the molt deftrudtive is,
that there is no dependence on the wind
in that part of the world for any length of
lime. There are no regular land winds j
and the sea wind is not perceived there at
all, the situation of the tree being at too
a d.stance, and surrounded by high
mountains and uncultivated forefts. Be
sides, the wind there never blows a frefh
regular gale, but is commonly merely a
current of light, foft breezes which pais
through the different openings of the «d
joining mountains I is also frequently
difficult to determine from what quarter
■ef the hoiizon the wind really comes, as
it : s divided by various obstructions in its
pafTage, which easily change the direction
of the current of aii and often totally de
stroy its ess fts. I therefore impnee the
diftanl effects of the poison, in a great mea
sure to the frequent gentle winds in those
parts, which have not power enough to
disperse the poisonous particles. If high
winds were more frequent and durable
there, they would certainly weaken very
much, and even deltroy the obnoxious ef
fluvia of the poison but . itliont them;
the air remains infected, and pregnant witli
these poiionous vapours.
I am the more convinced of this, ss tin:
old eccleliaftic assured me that a dead
calm i 3 always attended with the greatell
danger,, as there is a continual perspirati
on issuing from the tree, which i 9 seen t«
tife and fprcad in the air like the putrid
fleam of a marihy cavern.
It may probably be asked why no ef
forts have been made to deflroy fa dread
ful a tree —more dreadful indeed, in rs
effects, than plague, pestilence, and fa
mine united. The reasons are obvious.
No man, without abfolutc certainty oi
death, could venture to remain near it for
so long a space of time, as wonld be re
qtiifite to cut down a tree of such magni
tude, which if once wounded to any con
siderable depth, would in a moment de
flroy an army of men with its deadly de
-1 terious eftluvia : Nor could materials to
set it on fire be carried en to the place
without almost certain deftrudion, the
fire, as it were, drawing r;:pidly to a cen
ter the violent energy of the dirfufed poi
sonous particles. Befidcs all this, the
emperor derives a very considerable reve
ime from the sale of the gum, which is
used for various purposes, but more parti
cularly iu war and executions.
In the year 1776, in the month of
February, 1 was present at the execution
of thirteen of the emperor's concubines
at Soura Cbarta, who were convicted of
infidelity to the Emperor's bed, It wai
in the forenoon, about eleven o'clock,
when the fair criminals were led into ar
open space, within the walls of the em
peror's palace. There the judge passed fen
temcc upon them, by which they wen
doomed to, fuller death by a lancct poison
id with the gum of the Bohon Upas. Af
ter this thcAlcoran was prefefitedto them
:ind they were, according to the law ol
their great Mahomet, to 'acknowledge
and affirm upou oath, that the charges
brought them, together with the
sentence and their punishment, were fail
and equitable. This they did, by laying
their right hand upon the Alcoran, their
left hands upon their breads, and their
eyes lifted toward, heaven—The judge
then held the Alcoran to their lips, and
tliev kifTed it.
These ceremonies being over, the exe
cutioner proceeded on his bufitiefs in th.r
following manner :—thirteen polls, each
about five feet high, had been previously
er-.-ited. To these the delinquents wert
fattened, and thuir breads dripped n Iced.
In this lituation they remained a fhori
time in continual prayers, attend by feve
ral prieds, unti : aiigiul was given by thi
judge to the executioner ; on which tht
latter produced an indrument, much like
the spring la.ice*ufed by farriers for bleed
ing horses. With this indrument, it be
iwg pi.!foiled with the gum of the Upas,
the u hanpy wretches wert lanced in the
middle of their breads, and the operatior
wis performed upon them all in less thar
two minutes. My adonifliment was raifec
to the higheddegree,when I perceived th«
sudden tffefts of that poilon ; for in a
bout five miuutes after they were lanced
they were taken with a tremor of the
nerves, after which they died in the great,
ed agonies, crying out to God and Ma
homet for mercy. In sixteen minutes, by
my watch, which I held in my hand, al
the criminals were no more. Some houn
after their death I observed their bodiei
full of livid spots, their faces swollen.
their colour changed to a kind of a livid
blue, their eyes looked yellow, Bcc &c.
About a fortnight after this I had at
opportunity of feeing fnch another exe
cution at Samarang. Seven Malayans wert
executed there with the fame kind of in
drument, &in the fame manner, & I found
the operation of the poison, and the spots
on their bodies, exactly the fame.
These circumdances made me dtfirout
to try an experiment with fom« animals,
in order to be convinced of the real ef
f«dts of this poison : and as I had then
two young puppie3, I thought them the
fitted objects for my purpefe. I accor
dingly procured with fonie difSeully some
grains of Upas. I diifjlved half a giair
of that gum in a smalt quantity of arrack,
and dipped a lancet into it. With this
poisoned indrument I made an incifior
in the lower muscular part of the belly
of one of the puppies; three minuUs-aftei
it received the wound, the animal begar
to cry out mod piteou/lv, and ran as fad
as possible ftom one corner of the room tc
the other So it conti med during fix
minutes, when ail its drengih being ex
haud.-d, it fell upon the ground, was ta
ken with con»ulfions, and died in thf
eleventh minute. I repeated this expe
11'ment will) two rvh, r puppies, as alfc
with a cat and a tewl, and found the ope
ration of the poiiuu in all of them the
fame; none of thofa animals surviving
thirteen minutes.
I thought it necefTary to try alio the
effect of the poison given inwardly, which
I did in the following manner. I dif
solved a quarter of a grain of the gum in
half an ounce of arrack, and made a dog
of seven months old drink it. In seven
minutes a reaching ensued, and I observed
at the fame time that the animal was de
lirious, and as it ran up and down the
room, fell on the ground and tumbled a
bout ; then it xofe again, cried out very
loud, and in about half an hour afterwards
was seized with convulitons, and died.
I opened the body, and foujid the do
mach very much inflamed, as the inteftiues
were in some parts, but not so much as
the domach There was afmall quantity
of coagulated blood in the domach, but 1
could discover no orifice from which it
could have JfluecJ, and therefore fuppofedl
it to have been Squeezed out of the lungs,'
by the animal's straining wliilft it was
vomiting. From these experiments I
have been convinced that the gum of the
Upas is the molt dangerous and mod vi
olent of all vegetable poisons : and I am
apt to believe that it greatly contributes
to the known unhealthinefs of the island
of Java. Nor is this the only evil at
tending it, hundreds of the natives, as well
as the Europeans are yearly deltroyed
and treacherously murdered by that poi
son, either internally or externally. Eve
ry man of quality or fafhion has his dag
ger or other arms poisoned with it ; ant
in times of war the Malayans poilon thi
springs and other waters with it; by this
treacherous pra&ice the Dutch fuffered
greatly during the lad war, as it occasion
ed the loss of half their army. For tlii;
reason they have ever since kept fi(h it
t'.e springs, ot which they drink the wa
ter ; and centinels are placed near them,
who infpedl the water every hour,- t<
fee whether the fi!h are alive. If they
march with an army or body of troop;
into an enemy's country, they always car
ry living fifh with them, which they
throw into the water (sue hours before
they venture to drink- i , by which mean
only they have been able to prevent theii
to al deltrudion "
In future, thole who visit the iflan'd ol
Java will probably now be induced t(
make the Bohon Upas an obj 61 of then
rclearchcs, and will furnifli us with a fui
ier description of this wonder:* ' tree.
SPANISH NAVY".
The following is a lift of the Spanill
navy in the Mediterranean, which is tc
ast in concert with the B itifli fquadror
in their operations agamlt the French.—
They are to rendezvous at Port Malion ;
and it is thought have Corsica for the firll.
and an attack on some of the Frencl:
po'ts for a second objetl : viz.
Conde del Regala I i 2 guns ; Salvadoi
del Mundo 112; San Carlos 94 ; Regi
80; St. Rafael 80; Bahama 84. ; §t. An
gulline 74; Arogabita 74 ; Maguanimt
74; Oiien.o 74; San Firmin 74; Sai
Jorto 74 ; S?ne 74 ; San TVlino 74
Atigc Degorada 74 ; Atalanta 74 ; Fir
ma 74 ; Gloriefa 74 ; Guifero 74 ; St
Francisco de Afis 74 ; t>t- 11 Defonl'o 74
St. Lorenza 74 ; St. Paulo 74 ; Tcrri
ble 74 ; St. Francisco de Paulo 74 ; Ef
pania 68 ; St. Roman 68 ; St. Pcdrc
Alcantara 64; St. Leandro 64 ; Ont
forty gun (hip, ten figates of 32 guns
Come brigs and cutters.
Shrewjbury and Philadelphia
S T AGE.
THE Shre ihtiry aod Philadelphia ftarrc
will commence to run regularly, on Thurl
lay he lourth of July, to leav t Pmladrlphia il
.hatday, alter winch time, dufing the moiul
jt j -ily, i' wli lii- c Irom M'K.eki,i .1 dVa-iEm
s whaif a< Philadelphia fthe next whaif be
ow Aich on every Sunday arid Wetint l.
i«y & proceed to Bordenton—the land Itage ;
pioceed. on the next morning to Edington, an.
:o return on every TueTday and Fnjay. In tbi
month of Augult, it will leave Piiilajrlphia 01
very Sunday and Thursday, and return on ever*
Tuelday and Saturday.
Fare tor Pallengersfrom Philadelphia
to - - two dollars &an half
For gooes ditto - ditto pr. cwt. one d.lai,
VA'; EMBURC & M KEAN,
S-AMI/jii, fOiUIAN.
F.ordenron June 29, 1793.
For freight or passage, apply to the mailers on
board, or to
M'KEAN & VAN EMiiURGH
Whohave for falc as ujua tatheir ftorcs opi said
beef, pork, iiams, fiou , a:J, but r t rye anu
Jia.ii meal, chcefe, iron &c. &c.
J u 'y 3* 2m. law.
TO THE PUBLIC.
"\X7HEREAS an attachment at the fuir of Sam
uel imlay and Nathaniel Imlay, executors
of the testament and last wiiJ of Ptter Imlay, de
ceased, has ifTued out of the Supreme Court o<
Judicature of the Hate of New-Jerfcy, ?gain/t rb
lands of Garret Voorheis, late of the count y- ol
M d rile lex-, and {late aforefaidj returnable to the
(irft Tuesday' in September, seventeen hundred
and ninety two Notice is hereby given to th».
( lid Ganet Voorheis., that unlets he appear an
rile special bail to the said attion, judgment
will be entered again'} him, by default, and th;
lands so attached told for the fafi- ration of fucb
of his creditors as {hall appear to be ju.lly entitle,
to any demand thereon, ill ai 1 apply ft-r tha ,
purpose, according to the form of :he llatute ir
iuch cafe made and piovided.
By order of the Court,
April 17. law. ly KGWELL, Cik. j
PRICE CURRENT/
Dalian.Cents.
(ioo make 1 dollar.)
Ahes, -■ot per ton nod
pearl ditto 134 c! tn i 4 od
Bacon, fiirthes per lb Bto 9c
flioulders do -e
Beef, Bolton per barrel y d
Country do yAtouA
Beer, American in bottles
including bottles per doz-, id 74c
ditto per barrel Cd
Bees wax per lb 26c 28s
Brandy, Coniac per gal 90c 110 c
common do 80c to 85c
Butter in kegs per lb joi 12c
Cheese, Country per lb- 8c 13c
Englilh 20c
Chocolate 18c 20c
Coal per bushel 24c 33c
Codfifli per cwt 3d 53c
Coffee per lb 14c j6c
Copperas per cwt ul 67c
Cordage, American per cwt, 7H 67c 9c!
Cotton per lb ' 26c 38c
Flax per lb nc 12c
FSaxfeed perbiifli. 90c
Flour fuperfine per barrel 6d. 33c
common 6d
Bur-middlings, best jd.
Meal Indian per bbl. 2d 52c
Rye, do 2d 40c
Gin, Holland per cafe 4 d 66c
— per gallon 80c 90c
Ginseng 20c 24c;
Gunpowder, Fine glazed per qr e. 4d 3c
Grain, Barley per bulliel id
Belt llielled per buihel 2d 67c.
Buckwheat per bafliel 402-
Ijidian corn 53c
jersey, do 60c
Oats
Bye 60c
Wheat looctoiao
!-lams per lb 9c to icc.
ienip, imported per ton t2&d ijod67c
American per lb 4c 5c
iides, raw per lb 9 <
lops 28c
-fooey per lb -jqj
jwligo, Carolina per lb id: id aoc.
— French ul 20c id 67c:
!ron, Bar per ton 84c 1 !
Callings per cwt 4d
Nail-rods' per ton ioul aiK
Pig 2 4 d.
Sheet 173 d 33c
'rons, fad p?r ton 133 d 53c:
'-ird hogs per lb 9c 10c
Leather, foal per lb 17c 20c
uyr'lewax peHb 1,2 c.
tolailes per gallon 33; c 40a
Milliard, flour, in bot. per doz; sd 20ti
second quality, "per doz. 87c
Vails, 8d lod I2tl and aod per lb. 10c
3il, Linseed per gallon fc6c
Olive 87 c
per cafe jd 10c
Pepper per lb 38?;
Pimento 1 gcz
Pitch per bbl id 73c 2d.
Porter per call; 5d 33c
London per doz id 60c
Ainer. bot. inclu. idSocr
Pork, Burlington, per.bbl l6d 50c
Lower county 34d 50s
Carolina 1 rtiL-
R.ice per cwt 3d 45c
Pvum, Antigua per gal uB
Barbadoes 87c;
Country, N. E. ■ 62c:
Jama.ica id 46c.
Saltpetre per cwt 141) 33c
Salt, Allum, per bufn 33c
Cadiz • 2jc
Lilbon 27c
Liverpool* _ 33c
Snake root per lb 20c42
•snuff, per doz. bot, 4d jd 60c
per lb 33c BjeS
Soap. Brown per lb 6cs
White 8c:
jiarch' per lb 7s
>ugar, Havnnnah, white, per lb 14c i6t=
Brown lOC Met
Muscovado per cwt 9d i2ci
Lump per lb 21c
Loaf, lingle refines!, . 22^
double ditto 33c
Tallow, refined, per ib -jc.
Far, Ncw-JerXey 24 gal per bbj. jet
Carolina, 32 gal 2<b
Tea,.Hyfun per lb 93c id 2Sic
Souchong joe
Bohea 33c 36c
Tobacco, James River, bed 4d 33c
I inferior id-ic
. Old 4 d 6 7 C
Rappahannock 3d 33c
Coloured Maryland jd 53c 8d
Dark . 2d 40c
Long-leaf 2d 40c
Eaftern-fljore ,sd 2d e;c
Carolina, noiv . 2d 7c 3d
Oid 3d 33c:.
Tterpentine per bbl 2d 33c
Wine, Madeira, p. P. I7fid ?26d
Lisbon i2odi26-i
Teneriffe' % per gal 63c
Sherry 90c to td 2CC
PRINTED BY
CHILDS and SWA IN F;
AT THEIR rrJCK N0.2 iy, Kit l:-STRHT ?
WE An F I PTH- STR R VTT m