Numb. 28 of* Vol. ll.] SATU Ft D iY, F^bruir7 2, 1793.
Philadelphia County Jan. 28 1793.
Mr. FrEneau,
YOU will oblige several of your country
subscribers. in repnblilhiijg from TH
MAIL oflad S iturdny, Mr. Addx on' '
letter to the 'V or of that paper; to
gether with the fubfequeut letters that
palled between Mr. CI) er and Mr.
Adiijou d.ring the visit of the former r<
the we/lern country in September lad
\ ours, &c.
W. T.
I No. 1. From Mr. Addifon to Mr. Clay
poole, printer of THF. MAIL, dated
Wafhir.gton, December 19, 1792.
IN your Mail of the 29th of October lad.
[See National Garotte, No. 113 .]! wa
furprifedto find a publication, evidently
proceeding from Mr. Clymer's pen, i:
which, among many improper things, it
contained an assertion with respect to me
not less unprovoked than untrue. I cer
tainly should avoid thus noticing the Tub
ject, were it not that the public are, it:
fotne degree, intereited in the conduit of
every officer ; and th. several of mj
friends are folicitousfor an explanation o!
the charge bro't againd me I shall, how
ever, confine myfelf entirely to that ex
planation, without attempting either t<
ridicule or to fatyrize the proceedings o:
the fupervifor—wtiofe own reflexion inu(
fugged, that in the choice between
fahhood and a misrepresentation, a mail oi
spirit will be indifferent.
Mr. Clymcr has asserted."that I evprejs
ly gave asone for declining to take
the depofitionsof witnesses pointed out tc
roe i,i the cafe of a riot, the odium to b«
incurred by it." Lead I (hould be sus
pected of imitating Mr. Clymer, I (hallnoi
trull r<» nv . 1. >;it of r»w> i .
exhibit, to those who choose to examine
it, the condn£t itfelf. Mr. Clytner al
ludes to a correspondence between hiir
and me, which I requed you will publift
annexed to this letter. To those who
/hall take the trouble of reading this cor
respondence, it is not neceirary to remark,
that I considered Mr. Clymer's application
to me as, at leuft. indelicate: that I difbe
lieved and denied the danger to his person,
which he fuggelted ; but arguing on the
supposition of its reality, as with him it
Was fair to do, I thence inferred that hij
butinefs mult be odious, and in this hypo
thetical and not express manner, I gave
tfii; odium as a reason ; not why I decli
ned to take those depositions, but why it
was-indeeent in him to alk me to doit. I
gave him other reason; for declining it.
There is another assertion in Mr. Cly
mer's publication, which involving in it
the character of public justice in Pennfyl
yania, I consider in a far more feriotis
light. He ought to have so viewed it, and
taken good heed that he knew what he
was faying. If he knows any facts to
support his assertions, " that the feint ani
madversions of the State Courts in this
country upon offences committed again ft
the laws of the United States, have afford -
ed real encouragement to them " his own
reputation, either for truth or discretion.
requires that he disclose them. I ought
to know, at lead, as well as he, and I
know none, and deny that any exid. Im
prudence or a worse motive mud have
dictated this assertion. But in my letter,
Mr. Clymer, vvhofe senses were remarka
bly (harpened by every thing that happen
ed to him here, had discerned a battery
raised against the United States, and he
perhaps thought, that in Philadelphia he
might fafely ere£t a counter fortification.
The assertion might be believed long e
nough to serve as a fufficient pretence for
a vigorous exertion of the authority oi
the federal courts; andeven whendete£t
ed, might charitably be considered as a
pious fraud to advance the political hie
rarchy, and contribute to the desirable end
y t)f sublimating all authority in the arm oi
the Union.
If those who have read Mr. Clymer':
publication {hould also take the troubled
reading this and the following letters, 1
hope it will be thought, that I have not
I'afhly depped into public examination
nor extended it to unreasonable bounds.
I entered upon it with relu&ance, and now
drop it entirely.
I am, Sir,
Your very humble servant,
ALEX. ADDISON.
[To be Continued.]
By P. hUNEAU: Ptibltjli:d Wednesdays ait'. Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
On the EXCiSE LAW.
[Extracted from the Fayetteville Gazette
of Jan. 15 ]
■""pHF. extreme rigour, cnieltj, and op
preiiion oi the excif- i. is further
mamteic in the quantum of punilfnu-nc .1
infljefs. For 1 omideriug the number ar.d
variety of fmail flavUh requilites imposed
011 diilillers by tliis ast, it might have
seemed, that the forfeiture of all the (pi
nts they o ■. n. would be a fufticient and
dequate cunilhment lor >ntglt£li»g toper
lorni each or any 1 f those iiicomid. ruble
and favifli t equifitions. But by this ast
rhere is frnnrt 1 :ne- not only a forfeitureof
ail the fj>"r t. a distiller polfefl'es, but like
wise the value thereof'at tne highn't rates
of fiich spirits fold in the markets; though
generally the forfeiture is to includc not
only all the distiller's spirits, but at leaf!
one hundred dollars fur every non-obftr
vance of even the-moft ininnte and tri
lling reqnifitions enjoiopd by this act. So
rliatfuch a t zeri who may wi(h to gain
Something for the comfortable support of
lis fani ly. by diliilling up the fuperfluou
materials produced by his indefatigable
industry, in the cultivation of his land
and the improvement or hi. farm, i- to b.
;r once Uroke lip a ,d railed, and in 1!.:■
iy cases, his family turned out 01" doors
if he chances to incur a forfeiture, by o
niitting.a pi.;iftilions observance of every
the moll trifling reqtblite, imposed upon
!iim by this act.
He will in thtfe cases be sued to a fede
ral court, at the diliante, in many instan
ces, of frojfll two, to three or four hun
dred miles from the plate of his retidence;
where his antagonifls will always hive tk.
idvaotj;;e of him, at I-.-aft In point ot* ma
nage ur.nt, and in providing testimony to
8' 1 V ><• '" "/ 'nm \Vb'-rh.<r ar.
l"very he tin:: 1! y iiad against him or not.
yen his being dragged down to a federal
court at the rema'.-j diltance before men
tioned, in nejlect of t!ie bulinefs of hi;
farm, and of the aaerintendency of hi
domestic affairs, added to the heavy ex
udates he will neceil'arily be at, in atten
i on, and defending his suit, will even
at trie best, greatly injure, impoverish and
Hiftrefs him. But ii the penalty be reco
vered pgainit him. this, together with thf
;ofts offuit and all his expences incurred
in the course of his attendance and de
fence,—added to the loss of his time, the
legleft of his domestic concerns, and the
lavoe that will probably take place in
:he file of hi elf 'e, through the scarcity
as money in the part of the country where
he resides, will be apt to reduce hiin and
his family to total def: rudion and ruin.
I acknowledge, that there i:- a section in
this excise ast, which seems to hold forth
a method of relief to a person again!!
whom a rigorotr. recovery of a penalty
has been had in virtue of this ast: which
ir to be by a petition exhibited to a cfilirifl
judge, which i afterwards by him to be
transmitted together with the depofitiom
of lasts thereto annexed, to the fecretarj
of the treafiiry ; who is authorized there
upon to mitigate or remit such forfei
ture, if he thinks proper. But I look up
on this feition to have been thrown inec
the body of this ast, with scarcely any o
ther delign, than by wav of palliation, tc
wear the appearance of foftening the ri
gour of it without giving any certain ot
effectual remedy againit the oppression oj
it. Though it carries in it the certaintj
of much trouble and espence, that mull
necessarily attend the mode of procedure
thereby pointed out ; which may in forr.t
cases amount nearly to the value of the!
film forfeited, whether the petitioner suc
ceeds in his application or not. —I con
ceive that any further observations on this
head, ar? unnecefl'ary to convince every
person of common sense, of the wauto;-
nest, cruelty and opprsffion of this excise
act.
-In the next place I observe, that the
mode of the tax imposed by this ast, as far
as itrefpefts the spirits diflilled from ma
terials produced from the orchards anei
farms of the citizens of the United States.
is unnece[fary, un/atisfatiory, and odious.
to the individuals on whom it is to fall.
Very little is necelfary to be said in ordei
to prove, that the mode of this tax is un
fa isfaftory and odious to the people of the
United States in general, and especially to
those who live in the interior and frontier
parts of the country.
When a great, generous, and enlighten
ed people have waded through such scenes
of blood and distress, as the citizens of the
American dates have done, and have in
to. feqiience of their perseverance and va
lor, acquired a perfect freedom, andeltab
!i-'hed their independence and sovereignty;
Mmething is certainly due to their f.• nti
lents, to their habits of living, and even
ili'.heir prejudices ; and their feelings an 1
net to be outraged or sported with b>
:';tir rulers, who derive their authorit)
it j:n the people, for no other purpose bin
to render profperou;, latislied a:ic
undo:- the government they theui
ft Ivesjiave initialled.
■' von in the oldest countries,where theii
ni.uuifaitjircs and home productions whicl
are the object of extife, are more thai
tvpial to the confuniption of the inhabi-
M. ts, —no mode ol ta:ti.t;o:i is so gene
rally unfati .factory, odious ami deteftabh
o the people, as a:: excise; which is ill
.iced a specie; of tax w!iU li ot><;ht n-.-vei
o..be adopted but in tile lad instance, ant
which nothing can jullify in any country
>n<! f())ecially in a country offree citizens
>uc the lad pinch of neceilitv.
Becanfejt lays open the peaceful dvvel
ings of the inhabitants ol a country to th
Jiuran.ce, insult, aild rudeness of a set o
inpr.'ncfpled excifenien. Many of the ci
tile United States, especially a
he mv'l of jhem have been accuftomet
<> a Jiredl tax, payable immediately out o
heir pockets, would think themfclve
• /•(•> under the imposition of such a di
reft tax, rather than to be fubjedt to th
ihjoct and f. rtile performances retpiirtt
>* thorn by this ait, and the dill urbance o
hp peace and happiness of their s familic
•>y the entering, searching, antl raufackii::
nooir house:- anti t !ofc t., by a set of rudi
inlulting oxcifemen,authorized there
<• 8v the fame act.
tor to pre re. d to evade the fa&, or pal
: -t' c theji.u tllliip of this outrage, by tin
'Wends oF'tHs act, is netdieis. It is tin
lei iable, that every itizen's house in th'
I'rited States, is liable to undergo tile in
ult of a search, if the excise / officeris ca
sable of fwe ii ing prtt.y roundly, foi
rounding his suspicions oft he concealing o
;>ir is h i o 1 vhi' i the excise has beei
jrjfuiiijtl tut to havebeen paitl. V.'hicl
. -p tit; of swearing in such excise officer
ive have probabi} litrl- occefum to cioub
:.t. He will therefore without doubt fuc
:eed in hisdelign ; efpetially as it may not
-e clifru vi!t to hnd a willing federal judge
lr juiliee of the peace, lor granting ;
eareh warrant to answer iiis purpose
tnd a tondableor othtr peace officer ma'
alily be had to accompany him in hi
earch ; who will perhaps have previonf
y entered into a stipulation with such ex
.:f •••r.ter, to come in tor fnaciu vvitf
lim."
To the Editor of the National Gazette.
SIR,
r T~ i-' RE appears to bo a great uproa;
A in your city about Levees—ltv..t ;
[otig time before I could underfiaia! tilt
me.ining tf the word, having never heart
it 'till lately, and as it was a new and ou
tre found to n.e, I supposed it li.nlt have
:a veil its rife in the nature of our govern
ment, antl be applied to some favourite
republican diftiaoion ; 1 therefore refol
> etl to trace its origin—l found that it was
the legitimate oft pring of inequality, be
goneu by aristocracy and monarchy upon
corruption, and that the famous quon
dam councillor and afiifcuit (I will not
"ay principal) of the S of the
T , his excellency IVm. D ,
v\as the author of its being, and intro
duced it into the vocabulary of this coun
try, to the great credit and honour of the
I :,ited States ! l Ihould be glad to know
if he holds levees in his present dwelling in
New-Yark, for itis to be feared, uniefs
he Hill tountenances the young inoiiiier by
his example, as he has already tlone by hi.-
adviceand afiidance, the people will lose
that fuperfiitious veneration for it, which
has hi herto been inseparable from ihoft
u ho adopted the bantling—There was n
time, antl that since the effervefcence of
republican enthusiasm hud abated a little,
cveii fmce the peace, when the citizens of
the United States, who were the friends
of the revolution, would have execrated
everything which had the leaf!: analogy to
royalty : when they would have contem
ned, even the man of their fouded affefli
ons, bad he attempted to blind them with
the glitter of dilUnition ; hut not long
lince they feem'd to think danger at too
grea: a distance to alarm them, because
[Total No. 132.]
iiey hart become too supine to take the*
trouble to separate the a£tion from the ac
tor, the corruption from the than of their
confidence, or they would, perhaps, have
difcover'd that an implicit reliance on any
man is to give an anodyne to N liberty—
I pretend not to divination—but if I may
be allowed to reason from what I know,
and predict from what has come within
my own knowledge, there will be a mon
strous revolution in the opinions of the
people of this country—My friends anil
acquaintance have nothing to do with fac
tion or party, they judge difpallionately be
■-aufe they are without the vortex of pre
judice, and I know nbt one among them
vvhofe opinions have not undergone a
change—They fay, and very justly too, thar
when men change their conduct (and it is
only from that they can judge cftheirprin
c iplesytheir opinions of them ought to keep
with tins variation—A few days ago 1 had
a warm argument with a friend of mine
who is extremely zealous in his republi
ii >r nciples ; I contended, forthefake
of argument, that we had nothing to fear
from any one man among us ; that tho'
i inie of the officers of government had de
\ iated from the true principles and prac
tices of republicanism, they could have no
delign upon the liberties of the .people, but
that they were under the influence of a
■vat lily, which sober reflection might do
away j that tho'attempts had been made,
and werellill making,to Introduce distinc
tions among us, and make equality less
common, the bafenefa of such attempts
would for.n be discovered, and would
bring contempt, and perhaps infamy upon
the authors ; that the freemen of Ameri
ca understood their rights, and the dignity
of their tharafler too well to furreiider
them for the gratification of the ambition
of any man, however well he may havd
deferred of his country: that—My friend
could bear with me no longer—"Zounds!
exclaimed he, who would have supposed
that Cromwell ever had it in contempla
tion to raise himfelf to kingly authority, or
that the republicans of that day would
have ever bowed their necks to his ambiti
on ? Trace his conduct from his firft ap
pearance on the flage of nation to his as
sumption of the proteftorfhip, and what
does it exhibit but republican profeflioii
tophi (Heated with religious & moral cant;
and after having made himfelf the idol of
the people by pretending to be their friend,
what did he do ? He endeavoured to be
come a king—l tellyou. and I can prove
it by the teltimony of all ages, that it is
dangerous in the extreme to set up any
man as an idol, to suppose that he alone is
capable of dispensing the blessings of liber
ty ; to proflrate your entire confidence,
and fecmity before him ; to hail him as
your political saviour ; for however defer
ring he may be, there is a magic w power
which assimilate: everything to itfelf,&the
more implicit your confidence, the more
easily will you become dupes to his views—
Cail to mind t.lio ostracism of the Greeks ;
so jealous were they of their freedom,
that they thought it insecure to'retain any
man among them, who had it in his pow
er to command the entirewill of the peo
ple, left he might turn it to their ruin, and
vet you think yourselves wiser than all the
world, and are willing to commit your
, most sacred treasure into the hinds of one
man, without other security than that for
med i>v a heated imagination—l respect
every man for his virtues, but I idolize
■oman; it is beneath the dignity of free
men, ami I lincerely hope, that slavery will
be his portion, w ho bows down before any
being but his God!" The solemnity of my
friend's declaration startled me, for I had
never before heard him express himfelf
with so much fire, and as I wiflied not to
inflame him further, 1 put an end to the
| argument—Yonfee, Sir, that even mode
rate men are awakened intorefentnient by
the monarchical practices of adminiftrati
-011, and that the spirit of equality is not iu
so found a deep, but that it begins to oj en
its eyer—l hope the Prefideut, who ' »
hitherto had the warmest aftedtions of h's
fellow citizens (the great eft diftindinn
that he could receive) will be no longer
milled by evil counsellors, but that he will
abolish every custom which can call in
quellion the sincerity of his profeffions,
the upriglitnefs of his views, or that
would lell'en a fame, which was more
glorious, than erer fell to the lot of mor
tal man.
A FARMER.
Bucks County, Jan, 29,1793.foreign intelligence.
LONDON, Nov. 2—20.
The trial of Mr. Thomas Paine is ex
pected with more than usual eagernels by
the public : nothing, can be more interelt
iujr to Engliftimen than to know whether
opinion is free, or not, upon general lnb
jects of politics, for such is precisely the
question to be tried.
Every poflible attempt has been made to
seduce Mr. Erlkine from Handing forth
Mr. P.line's client. Thus, are there found
i 1 the kingdom men base enough to at
tempt debauching the honor and intereli oi
tie Britilh bar. It is almost needless tc
fiy that every endeavour of this kind had
n > effefl upon Mr. Erftiiw. The light will
be oild enough—a distinguished member oi
the French National Convention to be tri
ed at the Fngiilh bar, for afierting th£
Kights of Man !
Several accounts mention the failing oi
the French fleet from Toulon. Ihe at
tack of Civita Vecchia and Rome seem:
decided on. The men of Marseilles are
also proj-Cting an expedition to Loretto, 2
city 011 the eastern lide of Italy, where is
the d:poJit of riches in the Holy Houte for
merly brought from Bethlehem 011 angels
back*. The holy chert will probably lur
nitli the French with the greatell quantity
of rich plunder, of any place in the world.
It is foinewhat wonderful, that in the ma
ny wars of Europe, none of the privateer:
of any nation have ever attempted topil
-1 ige it. Ab the reign of superstition is now
on the decline; it will hardly befofafein
future.
A learned Profcflor in France, who has
for a long time employed himfelf in ma
king refearohes into the comparative ana
tomy of the brain, has publilhed one great
discovery, relative to the influence of the
ftrnCture of the brain on the intellectual fa
culties. He has found the brain, from the
most accurate iuveftigation, to coniilt of a
vast number of Inmi'itr, or thin ihe lis, 11 -
milar to the coats of an onion. These, in
some persons, he has found to amount to
the number of 7So. In others, they may
poifibly amount to more. In the brain oi
an ideot which he difleCted, were found
110 more than 324, and in a dumb perlon
only 362. He therefore. with"great rea
son, foppofes, that the intellectual powers
of inan are proportionate to the number oi
these lamina, or thin coats of the brain.
It would have been curious to have difTec
ted such a brain as that ol Newton : the
lamina would probably have exceeded
j 000.
From the experience of ages, we may
consider the clergy of all religions as a body
of men who have separate interests and
views, dirtinet from thole of the reft oi
mankind. The most despotic monarch:
exercise no jurisdiCtion but over the bodie:
and goods of men ; but all the clergy, from
the great Lama of Thibet to his Holinef:
at Rome, and the Archbishop of Canterbu
ry, at London, aspire to despotism over the
mind ; a despotism which is the more dan
gerous, as when once it is eftabliihed, it
extends to every thing else. The body
and goods are no better than rags ; those
gentlemen are the sole disposers of our sal
vation, and what will mankind not
obtain it ? This has been fufficiently evin
ced during seven or eight centuries of the
reign of the clergv and of ignorance. A:
to kings, their influence, origin, and con -
sequence among mankind, may be aptl)
depicted in the following apologue : Once
upon a time the horse called man in to his
aififtance agiinft the stag; the man got on
his back, aflifted him, fnbdued him, and re
mained his master. Thus did men call in
kings to aflift them against each other.—
Horses are still, luckily, ignorant of their
own strength, as well as subjeCts of their
natural rights : if they did but know them,
how many riders would be thrown, and
how many kings dethroned ! Some re
mains of ignorance in these matters are
perhaps an advantage.
Soon after the conclusion of Lord
North's administration, Mr Edmund
Burke became himfelf a pensioner in clif
guifc ; in the fame manner as if a pension
had been granted in the name of John
Nokes, to be privately paid to and enjoy
ed by Tom Stiles The name of Edmund
J3urke does not appear in the original tran
saction, but after the peniion was obtained,
Mr. Burke wanted to make the most of it
at once by felling or mortgaging it; and
the gentleman in whose name the peniion
stands, applied to one of the public officers
for that purpose. This unfortunately
brought forth the nameof Edmund Burke,
as the real pensioner of 15001. per annum !
When men trumpet forth the bleifings oi
the English conititution. it ought to be
known w hat fort of blessings they allude
to.
Mr. Boudinot's Speech in the House oi
Representatives, on Monday, January 14;
the house being in committee of the
whole, on the petition of the officers &c.
of the late continental army, for furthei
compenfat-on.
Mr. Boudinot allured the committee,
that he had determined not to trouble them
on this flibjeft, and he fliolild have carried
chat determination into execution, did he
aot find that the question was likely to be
taken in a manner not altogether plealing
to him. He had expe&ed that the claims
of the officers would have been fairly met,
and if decided in the negative, tliofe gen
tlemen would have gone away fully fatis
tied that their claims had received a fair
and candid difcurtion : But he feared, from
the arguments of gentlemen, that the idea
that the United nates had unjustly failed
in performing the contrail with the army,
would take place, and an ungrounded im
putation of partiality, (at lealt in the minds
of the petitioners) would be left on the
government, when, Mr. B. thought, t
lair iiatement of the matter would un
doubtedly put a very different face on the
whole business. The officers of the arm)
had come forward as creditors of the Uni
ted States in a decent and becoming man
aer, and presented their claims founded or
'ormer contracts, which they conceivcd hai
lot been fulfilled, and therefore they callet
an government to do what was right anc
lift; on the occasion. Congress were the
independent representatives of the wholt
anion, to whom every citizen ought tohavt
free access. and where every Citizen wa:
to be considered as equally entitled to ai
mpartial hearing. It on examination i
Ihould appear that juftite required a far
:her competition to the petitioners as i
:lafs of public creditors, when considered 01
1 general scale, 110 man in the house wouk
De more ready tlrin himfelf to give his voice
"or such a measure. But if it should ap
tiear that the contrast 011 the public hac
iieen complied with, as far as diflributive
uftice would permit, he vvifhed the petiti
oners to be convinced of it, and that thoft
losses they had met with, were such as hat
seen equally borne by other creditors of the
union, and therefore a general burthen, b)
which he hoped they would receive full fa
tisfaction on this ftibjeft.
Mr. Bouelinot, while he acknowledgec
:he patriotil'm and virtue of the American
irmy, and fubferibed fully to their eminent
ervices and patient futferings, he could not
join in decrying the eliential services anei
"ufierings of the other public creditors ol
:lie Uniteel States, who in the day of their
liltrefs, had administered their property, tc
:he support ot that army and the defence
jf the union. Ail public creditors who
jrefented themselves in the day of diflrefs
:o the relief of the union, were equally en
titled to the attention of Congress ; but
:he officers in their memorials liad applied
111 behalf of the army alone, he wiflied to
conlieler their cafe, in the firft instance, ab
lfra£tly, without connecting it with any o
ther class of creelitors, and then compare it
with others of their fellow-citizens.
He undertook, therefore, in the firfl
ulace, to slate the public conduct towards
the army from the beginning to the com
mencement of thp present government —
He would then examine the conduct of the
present government, and lafHy, supposing
their claim just, enquire into the praftica
oility of it.
The committee were well acquainted
with the rife and progress of the late war.
At the firft alarm, the patriotic citizens of
the colonies flew to their arms and formed
in the field, without terms or stipulations as
to their services. In 17-5, Congrefj turned
their attention to the army as the firlt great
abject, and having organized it, fixed the
pay at the rate of 50 dollars for a colonel,
and 20 dollars for a captain. In 1776, de
lirous of encouraging citizens who were so
zealous in their country's service, they gave
a bounty of 20 dollars to each private, a -
mounting in the whole, to upwards of
200,000 dollars, besides a promise of 100
acres of land, and to the officers at the rate
of 500 acres to a colonel, and the reft in pro
portion. In October of the fame year, de
irons of keeping up the zeal of the officers,
they increased the pay in proportion of 75
dollars to a colonel, and 40 dollars to a
captain, and gave a suit of cloaths per an
num to every private, or 20 dollars in cash.
111 Dec. 1777, Congress fliewed their desire
of encouraging the service, by giving a
month's extra pay to the army. The offi
cers, anxious for their future support after
the war was over, exprefl'ed an earnest de
lire of having forne provision of this fortan
ticipated, and Congress in compliance with
their desires, after a consideration of three
months or more, agreed in May 1778, to
give each officer half pay for 7 years after
the enel of the war, on condition that they
did not hold any office of profit under any
individual state, and 80 dollars to each pri
vate. In November following, they gave
to each fupernuinerary officer one year's
pay extraordinary, and increased the allow
ance for every retained ration, to 2s. 6d.
in money. The army, not being fatisfied
with this provision, in August 1.779, a com
mittee appointed for the purpose, reported
farther provision of half pay for life, with
out any condition in favour of those who
should continue till the end of the war, and
recommended to the states to provide for
widows of officers and foleliers who should
be killed in the service. Congress likewise
encreafed the allowance of monthly subsis
tence for officers to 500 dollars for a colo
nel, a captain 200 tlollars, and a private 10
dollars, and_added to all this, Congre/s al
lowed the officers to receive from the pub
lic stores, one hat, a watch coat, body coat.
four vests, four pair breeches, four shirts,
four itocks, fix pair stockings, four pair
(hoes, per annum, nearly at former price?,
and the folcliers in proportion. The half
pay for life was adopted, to the great of
fence of individual states, who sent forward
petitions againfl the measure as impolitic
and unjust. The war continuing, the dif-
Crell'es of the country increased, which re
duced the public credit so low, as to pro
duce great uneasiness among all clafles of
public creditors, both in the army and
country.
The gentleman from Pennsylvania (Mr.
Hartley) in his argument reprefente'd (ir
Mr. B's opinion)his own'feelings on the oc
calion,rather than a comparative view with
the fufierings of the citizens at large ; for it
is not uncommon, when gentlemen arc
connected with a particular class ef fuffer
ers, to view what they fee and hear as
an exclusive and peculiar evil, withoul
considering what pafles elsewhere. Thui
the soldier considers the facrifice of the ar
ny as the only intolerable burthen, while
he merchant, knowing his own loiles bell,
.onliders others' complaints 3s trifling as
uis ; and the farmer, who earns every far
thing by the fvveat of his brow, blames the
government for not giving him the firft place
in all their systems. Yet the fair cortclu
lion is, that the burthen has been generall)
nearly equal, and a common tax for the de
fence of our country —And altho' Mr. B.
readily fubfi ribed to the great fufterings and
patriotic exertions of the army, yet the)
should also give credit for the attention oi
their country, to the utinoll of their abili
ties. As the gentleman from Pennsylvania
is befl acquainted with the line of his owr
(fate, Mr. Boudinot undertook to mentior
what was done by Pennsylvania for he:
own officers in addition to the allowances
of CongreCs.—During the war, llores were
provided, from which they received a par
tial supply at the hard money prices. The
depreciation of their pay was fully made nj:
to them ; at the faies of tile confifcated es
tates their certificates were received as hard
money ; the fame for lands in the land-of
fice—the intereff of 6 per cent, was paid on
their certificates for a number of years—a::
additional bounty of land was given to them
ready surveyed and free from expence ;
and when the funding system took place,
they had their 3 cent, and deferrec
debt made good to 6 per cent, oy addition
al certificates from the state, which were
afterwards redeemed at about 50 and y,
per cent, in hard money.
[ J'/ie remainder in our next.2
For the National Gazette.
No. I.
nnHE present rulers of the United States
call peace, peace I—but there is no
peace. Peace reigns where jtiftice reigns ;
where this is not made the foundation of a
government and of laws, confufion mull
ensue.
Whatever were the nftenfib'e reasons for
adopting the present government of the U
nited States, there is no doubt but that it
owed its existence to the influence and ar
tifices of a few men, who had taken advan
tage of the diftrefles of this conntry unci
who had largely fpeculatec in the certifi
cates given for services rendered by the
mofl meritorious citizens. Thefarmers anci
soldiers, knowing how much cheir countrj
had fullered du ing a long contett to sup
port the natural rights of men, they accept
ed certificates in lieu of their full pay, al
tho' public opinion at the very moment oi
acceptance, had reduced them to one eightl
part of their nominal value; thus making i
facrifice of their equitable demands to tilt
distresses oftheir country. These origina,
and honorable creditors, when thej
parted with their certificates, regarded the
public opinion refpeiting their value, as the
mofl certain criterion of the value of the
public debt. They knew that it was to.tht
prosperity of citizens, and not to the de
mands of the creditors of the state, that the
firft and original faith of government was
pledged. The claim of the citizen they re
garded as prior in title and superior in e
quitv; and never contemplated that the
rights and privileges of their fellow citi
zens were a part of the creditor's fecurit)
exprelled or implied. Congress coult
pledge nothing but the public eltate, whicl
confifled in an immense tract of unoccupiec
and unimproved land : this much was en
gaged, and nothing else could be engaged
to the public creditor.
Whilst with the ardor of freemen, we
were contending againlt the arbitrary views
of the Britifli government, who wilhed to
prevent the free sale of the produce of our
industry by commercial regulations, and tc
draw a revenue by means of indirect taxes
on tea, painter's colours, glass, and other
necessary articles, we had no idea that the
corrupt and wretched system of Britifli po
litics and finance, would ever become the
favorite object of an American government.
It is as much the duty of American citi
zens to oppose such ruinousmeafures, when
brought forward and supported by a few
androcratic characters amongst ourselves,
as when attempted to be enforced by a fo
reign power. The American farmers and
soldiers should take care that the property
facrificed by them to their country v hen
in distress, ij not by a mod iniquitous furd
ing system, now put into the pockets of un
deserving (peculators.
An AMERICAN FARMER.
Jan. 31.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Tuesday, Jan. 30.
The report of the felett committee be
ng 1 ead on the petition of Thomas Wi
hart, said report was agreed to, and a bill
was ordered to be brought in pursuant
hereto—A repi rt was also made by Mr.
Benfon, in favor of the petition, read tome
ime since from Robert Heaton, a "V ork
iiire Englilh farmer, praying exemption of
luty. on cattle and other propertj brought
with him from Europe—laid on the ta
nle.
The house, in committee of the whole
proceeded to col lider the bill from the
Senate, for regulating foreign coins, and
for other pm poles. After making several
inconlider-able amendments, which vtre
agreed to, the bill was reported, the a -
inendmentß adopted, and the the
third time—On the question, bill
pass? it was after some debate, agTeed to
by a confiderabie majority.
A mefi'age was received from the Se
nate, informing, that they had agreed to
che bill (with the amendments) for regu
lating claims to invalid penlions—and re
qudting the concurrence of the House of
Representatives.
The committee of the whole house then
took up the conlideration of the bill lor
promoting the progi ess of the ufeful arts :
after difeuffing the fame for some time, the
committee rose and reported progrels.
Wednesday, Jan. 30.
After admitting a new member from
Maryland, William Hindman, Esquire,
vice. Jolhtia Seney—A petition was read
From G. Brown, praying compenfatiori for
wounds received—also, a petition from
Patrick Dennis, commander of the reve
nue cutter for New-Yo.k diftritt, praying
augmentation of pay for himfelf and crew
— referred, the firf't to a select committee,
the latter to the Secretary of the Treasu
ry—A memorial was also read from seve
ral Printers and Bonkfellers o f Philadel
phia, praying that the duties on royal, me
dium, and clemi printing paper may be ta
ken oft", as alio, the- duty on imported
—referred to ;i committee.
Stveral other petitions were read and
referred.
The refohltions of the legiflattire of the
(late of Kentucky, laid before the hrufe a
few days ago, were, on motion of Mr.
Greenup, referred tr a committee of the
whole 011 the Hate of the Union.
The hill (received from the Senate,
with their amendments) to regulate claims
to invalid penlions, was taken into consi
deration, and referred to a committee of
the whole house to-morrow.
The house then went into committee of
the whole, on the bill to amend the ast to
promote the progress of ufeful arts—The
committee proceeded as far as the lixth
feftion, and having made several amend
ments, rose and reported progrels.
Thursday, Jan. 31.
Mr. Parker, from the committee, re
ported a bill in favor of the claim of Tho
mas Wilhart—read twice and made one of
the orders of the day for to-morrow. A
petition was re; d from Meflieurs Brown
and Francis, merchants, Rhode-Hland,
praying allowance of a drawback on g n
aild fifii, which they had re-exported alter
previously paying the import—referred to
the Secretary of the Treasury.
A bill was reported by Mr. Grove, from
the committee, for re-imburfing H- E.
Lutterloh, for expences in coining to A
merica in 1777 to jointheAmerican army—
read twice, and made one of the orders of
the day for to-morrow.
The Secretary of the Treasury's report
on the petition of Captain Bell, was then
taken up—the prayer of the petition is, to
be allow ed a drawback on goods exported
from New-York, which the collector of
that port refufed to allow, the terms of
the law in fiich cases having not been com
plied with ; which refulal was confirmed
in the report —referred to a committee of
the whole house 011 Tuesday next.
A melfage was received from the Se
nate, informing, that they had considered
the bill for regulating the value of foreign
coins, &c. and had pafled the fame with an
amendment, to which the concurrence tif*
the house was requested. A letter was al
so received from the Senate, directed to
the Frefident of Congre/s, and read in their
houle, f rom M. le Brun, French minister
for foreign aftairs, relative to the pay of a
b rench officer formerly in the American
service, and praying payment of arreara
ges to his heirs.
1 he house ihen resolved itfelfinto com
mittee of the whole on the bill to promote
the progress of ufeful arts—after some time
(pent in difcufling, the biil was reported
with amendments—-which were laid on
the table.PHILADELPHIA.
February 2.
The mail from the fonthward, due here
lall'Tuefday, was robbed soon after it left
Baltimore. Few, if any letters, however,
arc said to be miffing ; the person who
(topped the boy, having taken the port
manteau into an adjacent wood, and after
opening several letters and packets, and
taking out bank notes to a confiderablc a -
mount,made olf and left the budget unin
jured.
The Legislature of the (tare of Kentuc
ky have pafled an act, giving further time
to proprietors of lands, within their jurif
diftion, for surveying the fame, and for
returning plates and certificates to the re
gister's office The time allowed for the
purpose of surveying, is to the firft of Ja
nuary 1794 —and the term of one year,
from the eighth of August ntxt, for return
ing platts a id certificates into rhe regis
ter's office. It in ly b? proper to mention,
also, for public information, that all lands
in the ltute of Kentucky are liable to pay
an annual date tax of (ixteen pence, Vir
ginia currency, per hundred acres, thelirfl
paymMl to be made the fourth day of Fe-
: on failure of'fentjringthe
lands by the fourth of February 1795, with
the coinmiflioners of the county, and pay
ing up all arrears of taxes, with interest at
five per cent, to that day, inch lands are
to be forfeited to the if ate. This law e
qnaliy a(fc£ts residents and non-relidents.
nor is there any other duty required ot
the proprietors.
Accordingto letters fro:n F.urope. "the
French National Convention have order
ed the printed trial of Charles the!, of
England, to bp translated and published for
the use of the members; and that it is
conje&ured by many, the king and queen
will make the fame end that he did.
de la Fayette continues in priion Some
juftify him 011 the principle of his having
gone as far with the people as, in honour,
lie ought to have done ; or, at leatt ai he
thought he do. confluent wiUi hie
oath to the new co ifHtution. Perhaps lie
ought to have gone further, and ftlick to
his party, and thus have retrained many
of the enormities that were committed.
It is certainly a wrong part to take, which
renders a man obnoxious to both (ides."
Extrai7 of a Utter from a gentleman in
Virginia, to his friend in tUis city, datca
January 1 \th.
" The alfairs of France give joy to eve
ry true republican. The people here dis
approve very generally the tax proposed or
jiorfes, nor wiil the people who have car
riages fubmir to a tax on them, unless one
on sleighs equally high should accwinpan>
it, as they are certainly made use ot a;
much, or more, for pleasure than carriage
are here."
The Buffaloe beeflately killed in this city,
fold in the market at 2s. 6d. per lb. The
exa£t resemblance of the creature in s
preserved state, is now to be seen ai
Mr. Peale's museum.
We hear from Weft-Indies, that ths
illands Guadaloupe and Martinique are ir
great confuiion; the aristocratic inhabitant:
being buiilv employed in packing up anc
quttingthofe i Hands, under an apprehenlior
of a French fleet arriving speedily to puitift
them for their revolt from the nationa
cause. The mulattoes have joined the pat
riotic party.
The new theatre in this city is now finifh
ed. It is computed to hold, with perfef
convenience, two thousand people.
The code of criminal law in most coun
tries begins to attract the attention of en
lightened men. Nothing is more commor
in England (and may we not fay in many in
fiances, 111 America also ?) than for a pooi
creature, impelled perhaps by hunger, tt
befent to the gallows for a trilling theft o:
four or five (hillings value, while the granc
speculating robbers of,millions, are screen
ed by law and fuffered to plunder the indi
gent and ignorant clalfes of society witl
impunity. The time is certainly approach
ing when mankind will look back witl
horror on the millions of legal murders thai
have been committed, and to make form
atonement for the part, will leave no ftef
untried to adopt and propagate a new anc
more benevolent fylfcm.
Late accounts from Ireland mention the
Roman catholics of that i(land,to be almofl
in a (late of open rebellion. Handbills, ex
p eflive of the general hatred of the present
government, are continually parted up in
ry part of Dublin ; and at the time ol
t 'efe an ouuts coming away, every thing
foreboded the nation to be at the eve of a
revolution.
®ttbfcriptions are on foot in several capi
ta sot the United States for celebrating the
glorious fuccefles of theFrenchnation. The
grand civic sea t 011 that occalion, was to be
celebrated in Boston on Thursday the
24th of January
'• A pompous display of royalty has late
ly been exhibited at Quebec, in their firll
outset under their new form of govern
ment Every American, not degenerate
from the p mciples of hi? revolution, will
read with difgutt the dictatorial language of
their lieutenant governor, in a late speech,
footed, oft hi! throne. It is true, we have
nothing to do with their r'ollies, but we have
as good a right to remark on their conduct
as they o 1 ours. It has long been predicted
that C inada would not remain many years
under the government of Great-Bntain—
quem Jupiter vultperdere, prius de mental;
and it appears obvious that this trait of
royalty being planted in Canada will prove
the flirt flep to their emancipation. Roy
alty is a foul weed, and can.iot tfouriih in
the free air of North America "
It is an old trick ofdeligning c iara£ters,
to cry up a lingle individual as the life, fafe
ty and Jine qua rttn of a nation ; and by de
ifying him, to make themselves the real
sovereigns over the people. "It has ever
been thecrait of courtiers Mr Paine)
•or the pufpofe of keeping up ail expeniive
and enormous civil liit, and a mummery of
useless and antiquated places and offices at
the public expence, to be continually bnflg
ng England upon fameindivklu d>w other,
called king, though the man might not have
capacity to be a pari ii coiUtable- The ful
ly and absurdity of thij is ■■.ppearing more
ircd more every day; a.-.d ;iill thole ine
contiuue to a.:t as if no alteration in the
public opinion bad taken place. They heat
sach other's nonfeuie,. and fuppole the
>vbole nation talks the fame giboeriih."
On Tuelil'y evening last, the weathft
uddenly changed from warm# < mode, it
'.as had uninterruptedly been the ca:e if.i'tt
the beginning ot the month) to a ftve-t
iiiow rtorm at north-Pall, which conti 11 tu<
the whole of th-: fueceeding day. Tin- hi:
tor the present put an eud to the expsrta
'ions of our ihad-epi. ures—That tilt Feb
ruary in New-\ ork, t\; 1
ilfo be difippoiuted, at leaf for the sirs!
naif of the month, i 3 more than probable.
Where row are. alt r ju J inoary (had
Arid f.ilmon—tkc—thai came before llleir time—
Atas! they're fltd to some lef< rigorous clime,
Where funs, that never Jquitit, fbail make inert
glad—
no more fur falrnor, fee your caps-
Some weeks 100 (fifli giris fay) mu't now elapfr
*Xiil (had aocr more fiia:l be so void of brains
Ai to be captured in bur fcins—
Then pray don't fob and pout—•
If abfetvl from our ftfeam,
There's only one to blame,
"Winter,that ant federal knave—'tis—keeps their
gut.
The committee of the House of Repre
entalive- . appointed to enquire into the
:aufes of the failure of the late expedition
inder General St. Clair, have resolved,
:hat no farther teltimony will be received
>y them after this day, the second of Feb
ruary.
On the irth of Octuber was married at
Sourdeanx, in France, the right hon. the
Earl of Shrewibury, to Miss Hoy, of Dub
in. Thi: lady is daughter of Mr. Hoy,
lationer, of that city. His lordfliip touch
nig at Boui deaux, in his elegant yacht,
aw Miss Hoy at the house of a merchant.
0 whom he hod letters of credit. Her
:harins were found powerful enough tc
ecure her the firll Countess's coronet o)
England. The present Earlof Shrewfbur)
lis premier Karl of England, and pofl'ef
es a clear eflate of eleven thousand pel
innum. [London paper.^
An Englifli paper presents tbe following
'ie wot the present humble lituationof the
Prince of Wales—"He devotes five sixth
his income to the liquidation of hi:
debts, and with the remaining i2,c001. ;
pear, he, in a finail house, served by half t
iozen domertics in brown frocks, enjoy:
ill the comforts of a private gentleman.'
This little remnant of his income, upor
which the prince now lives in so frugal l
manner, is upwards of 50,000 dollars .
pear, or more than twice the annual fala
-y of the Prelident of the United Stales-
Jo much for monarchy.
Private letters from Europe fay, thai
incethe National Convention of Franct
lias begun to agitate the question of tin
king's trial, he has fallen into a proiounc
melancholy, of rather the lethargic kind—
:hat the Fniprefs ot Riiffia has pofitive
y refiifed to furnirti her quota of trotips tc
:he confederacy against France, preferring
:o pay her contingent in money : Ever)
:hing in Germany wore the appearance oi
1 long war, and frelh contributions were
evying to carry it on with renewed fury—
-his was conlidered as a dreadful incident
or the lower and middling clafles ofpee
ple, whose earnings were almolt nothing,
and to make things ftili worse, hardly any
money was current. The niannfaffurers
it Vienna had discharged upwards of 6000
lands, mort of whom were reduced to beg
:heir bread in the rtreets. Their number
oon amounted to 8 or 9000, who went in
1 body to the Emperor Francis and peti
:ioned to be reinlfated in their places
Their request w as refufed—they then sur
rounded the palace, crying out, Grant us
bread, we do l.ot want-wages! The milita
ry were then called instantly in, and this
starving mob dispersed.
Almort the whole oflaft week parted in
feftivity and rejoicings at Boston, in con
sequence of the success of the cause of li
berty in Europe.—One of the many toarts
on this occasion was, '• May tyranny, dej
pntij'm, and ujurpation, with their concom
itants, be forever blotted from the records
of man, and Jecurely depojited in the ar
chives of that region, prepared by the dei
ty for the reception of every evil work \
Illuminations, proceffinns, and plain tho'
abundant tables in every quarter teftified
the ioyot the citizens on this exhilirating
occafjon'.arid to complete the display of re
pubiicanifrp, a balloon was to be <lilpatched
to the upper departments of the atmof
pbere, inscribed in large letters, LIBER
TY aid EQUALITY —The animated re
joicings of the people of Boston, on the
glorious fticcefs of the arms of republican
Kranpe, is a Itriking contrast to the indif
ference and coldness with which the news
has generally ben received at the feat of
the federal government.
It is mentioned in a London paper,
that 4< the people of Cheshire have made,
as a prelent tor his Britannic Majelty, a
cheele of near fourteen hundred pounds
weight: So that, in cafe of a revolution
here iiinilar to that in France, it is pof
lible his nii.jefty may yet go out of his
kingdom in a cheele".— ii The above
c heeie.(fayj the fame paper) was prefent
td to his majeily by Sir T. S. Cotton, and
:roai the weight aiid dinieflfions, one
wm;d suppose it was the production of
'B<*>biig ag in ft tad of Chtfiire James
-' - li'xth, iooii after hisarrival ii 7 England,
w .» preiented with a Chelhire Cheese, oi
:o(jui Sooib. wt. and his remark upon ii
ilef.rves to be recorded— '■ .\ hen it i;
looped to the iiiell. there will be a ver;
pretty iituation fur the retirement of a
r ■iteinplative rat.''
1 lie coiumillioncrs for erecting public
buildings within the city ot H'ajnirgton,
for the permanent rtfidence of Congref;
after the year 1800, have publillifcl the
pi.in ct a lottery, tor effecting improve
ments in laid city, building aHOTF.L,&c.
ihe number of tickets is JO,Coo at 7 dol
lars each—total number of prizes 46-3-
tMe remainder, blanks—the highest prize
L > be the Hotel, valued at 50,000 dollars.
U)' 1 remainder calli prizes, viz. one oi
jj.ooo dollars—the IVcoud, 20, cc-
:."c third, ijooo; tlie fourth, 10,000 —two
f 5000 —ten of 1000 —twenty of 500 —one
hundred of 100 each—two hundred ofio—
lour hundred of 25 —one thousand of 20—
liid lilteen thousand of 10 dollars each—
«te drawing is to commence at the cily of
Walhiugton 011 the ninth day of Septem
i>-f next.—N- B. one hundred dollars are
jircred by the comuiiffioners for the bed
dan of an elegant and convenient Hotel, ot
Inn, with hot and cold baths, out hotifes,
"-C. if presented 911 or before the 10th
.iay of April next.
The general aflembly of Pennsylvania
lave now before them a petition of Mr.
Lfgaux, respeCting a plan for the eliab
itnuieiit of the culture of \ INKS in said
tste ; apd we uuderftaiid a bill is to be
'. ported on that subject in a few days.
Vlr. Legaux alferts. fromfeveral years e>.-
jer.ence, that the \ ine may be cultivated
n Pennsylvania to at lealt as much advan
:age, as in any province of France ; he
I,ls publiflied the pi ai of a fubfenption
"or theelfablilhment of the culture of this
r.iluable piant, and offered ten years ot
11s own time to aliiit in bringing it tu
)ci section.
] From the Fittjburg Gazette of Jan. 26. ~
Brigadier general Putnam, and the Rev"
Mr. Heckenwelder, palled thro' this town
jii Monday lait, for Philadelphia,
11 part, completed the bnlintfs they were
eut on by Congress, to the Indian nations.
It is said, that from the intelligence they
have received from the Miami Indian-
I here appears to be no difpolitionfor peace
yn their part.
Colonel Thomas Proctor, of Philadel
phia, arrived here on Sunday lait, and 01:
Monday proceeded on for Fort Franklin,
accompanied by Joseph Nicholfon, In
ilian interpreter—his bulinefs is not known
but it is thought to be with the lix iiati
I I US.
[From the Maryland Journal, of I ast Tuef
tlay ]
" Yesterday morning, the post-boy. with
the mail from this place for Philadelphia,
was flopped about t\\ o miles from to wn,
by a single footpad, who obliged him to
dismount, and mounting the horse himfelr,
proceeded a little dillance 011 the Phi.a
delphia road, when he dismounted, leit
the horse in the road, and made tor the
woods. The alarm being given, a number
of persons fat out in quelt of him : a (light
(now having fallen during the night, they
were enabled to trace him, from the road
co the place where he had left the port
manteau, which they found cut open, a
number of the letters, with their
seals broken, were lying around it; some
at the mails were left entire, and otheis
L.iken away : his footlteps were traced
from thence, across Joneses Falls and the
back of the town, into Howard's~ltreet.
A liberal reward has been offered by the
merchants and others, lor apprehending
the villain, and diligent search is making,
but hitherto without effect. We hope,
however, to be speedily able to announce
to tne public the apprvhenfion of this da
ring highwayman. One of the mails from
tnis place, tor Philadelphia, one end oi
which had been broke open, but the let
ters left untouched, was found in Colone
Howard's field, containing a number c>J
letters, some of which were directed t<
members of Congrels. It is supposed thai
the robber, conceiving these lecters to bt
entirely on public bulinefs, threw them a
way as useless; he, however, as far as we
can learn, mi (Ted the greatest part of his
booty; for one of them contained up
wards of eight hundred dollars, in bank
notes the property of a merchant in this
town."
A letter from a gentleman in Baltimore,
dated January 29, tohis friend in thii city,
contains the following intelligence: "I
have just returned troin the examination
of a man who is fulpe&ed to be the villain
who robbed the mail on Monday eis
committed for trial—and though a man of
genteel manners and good family, had eve
ry appearance of guilt. Circumstances are
much against him."
Extract of a letter from Kentucky, dated
Nov. 10, 1792.
" Our with refpeft to a trade
lown the Ohio 1 iver brighten every day,
n.d I have reason to hope, that all duties
witi be removed, and a free paflage given
£0 us ; or at least that the duties will be
mconlidernble."
I.ondon papers mention, that upwards of
.eventeen thousand pounds sterling has al
eadv been railed in that city for the relief
Jt the emigrant French clergy.
Ou 1 river is now full of floating ice, arid
■he navigation nearly, if not wholly ob
hufted. ,
ExtvatifrnnilVliJi tVilliam's " Letters from
i ranee"—{a very late Englijli publica
tion. )
" One subject of complaint among the
Paris ariltocrates is, that (ince the revolu
tion they are obliged to drive thro' the
tieets with caution : The life of a citizen
s now confdeixd as of some value, and the
Joor people 011 foot cannot be trail,pled up
,n hv the horses of the rich people in car
riages, with the fame impunity as lormerly.
' It i. foinconvenient (said an ariftocrate to
ne lately) when I go to the country in my
: triage, the people v\'ill not get out of the
Vil y as they used to do—they are really be
-011,e intolerably insolent—you are obliged
o take such care nottoru over th« m. °nd
hat colts so much time."—lViad me de
Pompadour, m.ltrefs to Louis the 14th, who
dways travailed with great expeditio . was
jailing tiiro' Orleans, when h.r coachman
'rove over a poor woman whom age and
nfirnaty prevented from getting time e
lOUgh out ot the way, and it.e was killed
.ipoii the ipot. The coachman (lopped the
:arriage, and the servants told their midrefs
hat the poor woman Was killed.— '■ Well,
said (he, with the greatest coolness ima
ginable, and Hinging a louis d'or out of -he
A'indow—) here is fomethingto bury her
50 on, coachman."—li itpoiiib.e to hear of
fvery feeling of humanity being thus iufult
•d. without a degree of indignation which
an only b<j soothed by the refkaion ihat
uch monstrous evils exill no longer ? Is it
jollible to hear this incident without re
oicing, that a system of government which )
ed to such depravation of mind is laid in.
""ins ? For my part, I confefs myfelffo
Hardened ,1 patriot, that I rejoice to fee the
lower order of people in this country have .
loft somewhat of that too obsequious po
liteness for which they were once diltin
• uiflied ; and that whenever they find
ihemfelves in the llightelt degree offended
they assume a tone of manly independence!
While we were walking yesterday along
the very Square where the poor old woman
was killed, I heard a day-labourer fay. in
an angry tone of voice, to a gentleman by
whom he thought himfelfill-treated, "Sir,
we are equals—l am a citizen, Sir, as well
*s another."—Some of our company were
(hocked at his insolence. while T re fl
ing the poor old wom-n, could not help
repeating to myfelf, " Ah ! my friend, ne
i'er forget that you are a citizen as well as
another."
"Crying up the excellency of govern
ments, (fays a correspondent) however de
based, is a (tale device, in mod countries,
to make the people fit enjy under their op
preilive dominations. Even at Constan
tinople the common people labour under
o gieata deception as to suppose tiiem
> Ives the ireelt on earth. The govern
ment of wrest-Britain has not beerl behind
liand in playing a like game ; and there are
other governments who seem to be comino
dii tolei'ably well in the fame line- " The
Englilh government, (fays Paine) has been
oftentatiouQy giving challenges for more
than an hundred years part, upon what is
called its own excellence and perfection.
Scarcely a king's ("peech, or a parliamenta
ry speech has been uttered in which this
j,lovehas not been thrown, till the world
has been insulted with their challenges
Hut it now appears that all this was vapour
and vain bonding,. or that it was intended
to conceal abuses and defects, and liuih the
people into taxes.
*•»* Several communications and e[fays
from correjpondents -will appear in our
next.
%* The Eaflern J\lail had not arrived
when this paper was put toprejs.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
National Bank Stock 36
N. American 35
Six per cents. 2C3/4
Deferred, 12/S
Three per cents. x2.fiJCONGRESS.
Saturday, January 5.
Continuation of Mr Steele's Speech,
on the reduction of the present Army
Eftablilhment.
THE question will now soon be taken ;
if adopted, I fliall be among those who
rejoice ; if rje&ed, among those who havt
alw vs fttbm tted •. i h a proper degree ol
decency to the deeifion of the majority,
But in any event, 'he public wi.l know
that we have asserted the sense of the peo
pie again ft Handing armies, that we art
anxious to dtf.nd the frontiers against theii
enemies, that we have recommended a fyf
te:n of ceccnomy and efficiency, inilead o!
profulion and delay, that we have rccom.
mended a fyi'tem calculated to producc
victory and peace, indead of disgrace aac
war, and that wc wish to rescue the g«
vernment frotn the intoxication of tlx
t'm 1 and ail the apery of military ellab
lifhments.
He laid, he had been attentive to tht
arguments of tht opposition, and they tent
principally to four points. If nei Itr o
these positions be found tenable, the mo
tiot. will certainly succeed ; and that the;
are not tenable, is believed and will bi
fiiewn.
1 ft. It has been boldly asserted tha
the '"rclidet t is the author of the exiftinj
fyftcm.
2-.: lv They call in qneHion the finceritj
of our decli'.rdtiont in wifhmg to afford ef
fcCtual protection 10 the frontiers.
:■ iv. Tiny deny the competency o:
the militia.
4'h'y. The mpoiicy of reducing thee
ftahiihment, when a treaty is expected.
In regard to the firft, we deny that th«
Preft'en is t:,e author of vhis plan of pro
feci;, ing the war, Hot having avowed ex
pli. 1 iy hirnfelf that he is so, and nodocu
men: appearing to confirm that opinion,
we are juftified i'l attributing a fylletr
wli ch apptarsti- ti' incfftthial, to his le
cretary and not to him.
It is true that the Secretary is only «
finger of is hand, & the intimate connec
tion which m uftofneceffityfubfiftbetweer
them, perhaps is the ground upon whicl
the assertion lias been made. The Secre
taries are all ecju. lly near to the President
and if it be admitted that he is the authoi
of this, he may with equal propriety, b<
said to have been the author of every fy t
tem on general fubjefts, which either o
them have recommended.
Wa. ' e the author of the report on th<
fifherics ? Was he he author of the plan foi
eftablilhing the National Bank ? It i:
known that he was not, and circumftancei
might be mentioned (which are withheld;
from delicacy) to confirm this opinion.
Was he the author of the funding fyf
tem ? Some gentlemen in the opposition tc
this motion, would not be willing to givt
the President that credit, if he claimed it ;
and some who support this motion, wouh!
not only be sorry that the President hat;
even clnimed fuc'h a credit, but believe
that it wes in no refp?£t attr butable tc
l>im. The fame gentleman
Wor: It,) who firft fferted th.t the Presi
dent was ne author of this militry plan,
in the fame speech, admitted it to be th
■war, as well as the plan of house, and then
argued on the neeffi'y of liability in our
measures. It is not very material to the
present question, whose plan it is ; being a
public meafuve. we are juftified in offering
our objedlions to it , and this is the firft
time that I have heard it publicly asserted,
that a government should perftvere in an
error because they had usdertaken it. Ii
the plan be a good one, it may be sup
ported by reason ; tf a bad one, no
ought to be called in to prop it up.
The iuconfiftency of that gentleman's(Mr,
'Wad'worth) arguments not only support!
the motion before the committee,but thews
the wretched fhifts which hav'e been used
to defeat it.
It has been said in the course of the de
bate, that individual members, and ever
this house, are incompetent to decide upon
the efficacy or inefficacy of military plans.
In answer to this it may be said, that it we
are not all generals, we are all members,
and that we have the privilege of thinking
for ourselves and for our conftitnents. To
admit this doctrine in the latitude which
has ben evpreffed, would be to introduce
military ideas indeed ; it would be to make
soldiers of us inflead of legislators ; nay
vvorfe than that, it would be to revive the
exploded do&rines of passive obedience and
non resistance.
In regard to the sincerity of his inten
tions to afford effedtual protection to the
frontiers, Mr. Steele said that he had been
fuffici ntly explicit, that a feeling for the
fufferers had diflated this motion ; that he
was forty it had been whispered in the ears
of some of the members, that it was in
tended to withhold the necessary appro
priations, and divert them to other pur
j;ofes.
If two regiments were inefficient to
garrison all the polls neceflary for defence,
he would even under certain reftri&ions,
consent to continue the three sub-legions,
thereby enabling the President to eftabiifii
double the number of ports now erected il
he should deem it advifeable. Regulai
;roops being incapable of active expedition;
laainft Indians in the wilderne s, his wid
was to abandon that system, and confint
:hem entirely to the gainfoo.
The next objection to the motion is th<
incompetency of the militia, and to fuppori
[his opinion, the gentleman from Connec
ticut (Mr. Wadfworth) has made this ex
preffion, " that as to the expedition unde
General St. Clair, the regulars Were few
&not to be named when compared with tin
number of the militia " The truth is, then
wasnot a man engaged th.-t day a sa rniliti;
man, except the advarce guard command
ed by Col Oldham, which c nlilted of 30c
perhaps a few more, the field return of .hi
day preceding the action being in thi
war office, this can be afecrtained wit!
p'ecifion. The ballance of the army or
that unfortunate day, had b.en enlided a;
regulars, even cloathed s rtgula s, wer<
fought as regulars, ;ind poor fellows, diet
ike regulars. Thty fuffcred the fate whicl
awaits every re ular army deltined for si
milar expedition#.' Even the handful o
militia employed that day, did not defiyvi
:bat name, they were chiefly substitute.» foi
draughted men f:om the ceded territory
Phis draught become unavoidable, fron
1 misfortune to General Sevier, which
Mi. Steele related.
Theat.ack on Adair has alft
jeen mentioned as a proof of the incom
petency of mi itia, and Mr. Steele infille<
that the only inference whLh could bi
drawn from thence was, that ICO militii
were able to repel, but not dedroy nea'
200 Indians. This event he conceivec
was in favor, and not againlt his motion.
He next adverted to the argument o:
Mr. Wa> fworth, in regard to the war o
1762; of the ednblifiiment of pods it
Pennsylvania and Virginia, and of tin
fno ess of Col. Bouquet's expedition 1
rwo worn-out regiments at that time weri
fufficient to defend the frontiers, and wit'r
the aid of the militia, to term nate th<
war, two new regiments, in them, all thi
i(igor which the gentleman described U
now pofiefs, with the aid of eitahlifhec
polls, and a much more effective militia
an certainly be equJ to the fame end
After examining Mr. W.'s arguments foi
Tome time, Mr. Ste. 1 said, that w hen ana
lyzed, it would be found, that they pro
V'. more than they were intended to prove
but the meiits of this motion did not re
quire that he fliould take advantage o
hefe indiscretions.
He Ibewed from the hi (lory of 1762
iiat tho' polls were eftiblilbed, with ;
handful of regular troops in each, the)
lerer answered the purpose of tfTeflua
orotedlion ; but the frontier people wen
drvays obliged, in a great degree, to de
end themfelve3 ; that tiny were bed cal
:u!atcd for that service, and that the)
ivoulii perform it now with alacrity anc
.uccefs, if well rewarded.
Mr Steele then refuted the objeftior
sgaiull the militia on account of theii
ivalte and expence which Mr. W. had al
luded to. The law allows a mounted vo
lunteer, furnilhing himlelf with a gooc
horse, good arms, provisions, and ever)
other necelfary, except ammunition, at
his own risque and expence, one dollai
per day. The exafl expence of such ar
expedition, can be calculated. Whethei
fuccefsful or not, the charge to the public
cannot be encreafed. The contractor's,
quarter-matter's and hospital department's
are all avoided, with the abuses, expences
and frauds attending such eftablifliments.
Mr. Steele enlarged upon this point, and
said that these were always found to be
the mod expensive depaitments in any ar
my, and that the federal treasury had felt
their effedls already. In favor of the mi
litia it may be alked, who fought the bat
tle of Bunker's Hill ? Who fought the
battle of New-Jersey .' Who have fought
the Indians so often with faccefs, under
Generals Wilkinfon, Scott, Sevier, and
others ? Who marched in 1776 under Ge
neral Rutherford, through the Cherokee
nation, laid waste their country, and for
ced them to peace ? Who fought the bat
ties of Georgia, under Clark and Twiggs ?
Who fought the battles of South-Caroli
na, under the command of an honorable
member, now present ? Delicacy forbids
to enlarge upon his successes in his pre
sence.
Who fought the ever memorable bat
tles of Cowpens, King's Mountain, Hang
ing Rock, Blackßocks; the pivots, on
which the revolution turned in the south
ern dates ? In {hort, who fought all the
battles in the southern dates, while we had
a mere handful of regular troops, scarcely
the shadow, much less the reality of an
army ?
They were all fought by freemen, the
fubdantial freeholders of the country :
men attached to the revolution from prin
ciple : men who were sensible of their
rights and fought for them.
Such meir will not enlist in regular ar
mies, nor will any one who h.is the dispo
sition, or the constitution of a freeman
-1 It would give me pain to defer be the
j trafli which composes all regular armies:
They enlist far three dollars a month ;
which, in a countiv like the United Staes,
is a (jiffieient defcriptiou of their bodies as
well as their minds. Such men are not
fit to combat the moll active enemy in
the world. Here Mr. Steele read Major
, Gaither's and M jor Trueman's depositi
ons, refpefiiiig the defeat of the 4th No
vember, I 791, dating, that they could
j not fee the Iniliins, because they were
behind trees, &c. that the regular troops
i tried, but could not fight that way ; that
they seemed to be ftu'ptd, and incapable
of refidance ; and that if any General in
world had commanded such men that
day, he mud have been defeated as they
were.
An additional argument, and one of
the mod weighty too, againd regular ex
peditions, in this species of warfare, is
that by the slowness o! their movements,
the force of the enemy may be concentra
ted, —time is afforded thein to form alli
ances, and to confederate againd those
whom they coniider a common enemy.
| It is otherwise with militia tncurfions. He
off red a number ofreafons to (hew that it
1 was so, and how essential for the intered
of the United States, to adopt a policy
calculated to detach the tribes from each
other as n<uch as pofiible.
But it has been said these men were not
regular troops. Mr. Steele alked, what
then were they ? They surely were not
mili r ia.
[To be continued.]
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATION*.
JA ' UA.E Y 1793 •
D. Hi Bar. [lb r. tV.ni \Wtatb.
Turfday, 22. - 29. s;] 27 N NVl'.j Fair.
2 211. V, 3.! v. w.j Jo.
Wednejtlpy, 23. 7 29 75 22 w. \v 1
22c- 37 W J dc.
Tburjduy, 24 7 29. 9 50 \\ Cloudy,
2| 11 ■ 9 3Q .\'do.
Friday, 25. 1 30 > V. . t ,nr.
2 30. c 41 -w. \Haxry.
Saturday, 20. , J 30. 05 31 :N yj .[ljir.
iiunujy, 27. 73. I 23 W. r aim fur
2 20. 01 3S S. Cidy.Sn.
Monday, 2%. 7 29. c . 33 S. Crudy.
2] 29. 6 45 , SjW. l*r,fine
Philadelphia is New-York
STAGES,
BY WAY OF
BURLINGTON, BORDFNTON, & SOUTH
AMBOY—
TXT'ILL start from Samuel Ferry, oppo
fue to Pniladeiphia, every -Sunday arid Wed
nesday morning, during the winter season, and
arrive at South- Amboy on Monday, and Thurfda*
evenings—where a good boat will be reaoj to cob
vey Goods and Patfengers to New-Yorl:.
The Stage boats will leave New-York every
Monday and Thurlday, so as to meet the Stages
from Philadelphia at Amboy, to proceed for Phi
ladelphia next day. All Baggage belonging to
paffengersto be at their own risque.
All Goods forwarded by the Stages on bill, to
be under the particular care of the Proprietors of
the Stages j but not warranted against robbery or
! damage—And all entering, clearing and permits,
I to be paid by the owners of goods.
Price of a pafiage from Cooper's ferry to New
York, - ,£O. 18. 9.
2Colb. of Goods, to pay the price of a passage.
All Way pafl'cngers, 3d per mile.
AMOS HUTCHIN, and 7 For Burling
NICHOLAS SCHENCK, S ton line.
VAN EMBURGH & M'KEAN, > For Borden
and DAVID WILLIAMSON, £ ton line.
January 16, 1793. [iaw..ew
JuJl Publijhed,
By WILLIAM YOUNG, Bookseller, No. 5
Second-ftreer, the corner of Chefnut-ftreetj
In two large Svo. vols, neatly bound, price four
dollars,
ESSAYS
ON THE
INTELLECTUAL and ACTIVE
POWERS of MAN.
By THOMAS REID, D. D. F. R. S.
Edinburgh, Profejjor of Moral Philo-
Jophy in the IJniverfity of Clafgovj.
IT would be improper tor the publisher to men
tion anything, refpeding the literary talents
Jt an author, generally known and esteemed.
Nor does it appclr neceflary to request attention,
ro perul'e a work, whole importance is universal
ly acknowledged. Those who have read the an
cient fvftems, and these volumes, will readily per
ceive, that the knowledge of philofophv, advanc
es from a state of infancy, towards maturity;
nor will it appear too much, when it is laid, that
Dr. Reid has Jivefteii mrral faience, from that
veil under which fur so many ages it has been
concealed, by amb'guous words and rtie jargon of
trie fchouls. Thus he has acted that friendly pare
to moral I'cience, which the ingenious Newton
and Fergufon did to natural philosophy : their
united and Ikilful efforts, render philof , noc
only an uleful, but a pleasant excl „r,d a
more lafe intruduftion to the mod imp J&t stu
dies. —It i, ineradicable to inlert thelerigthy
reviews ut this work, and to give a part, Would
be unlricndl) to the author and reviewers.
ALSO,
Price, neatly bound in 2 vols, S-uo. 2 dollars
SO cents,
A COMMENTARY
ON THE
BOOK or PSALMS,
In *hich their literal or historical sense, as
they rela e to Kin; David, 2nd the People of H
raejj is illuftra . d ; and their application to M f
frah, to the Church, .md to individuals, as mem
bers thereof, is pointed out : With a view to ren
drt'ihe use of the Pl'alter pleasing and profitable to
all orders and degrees of Christians. The Hrft
American edition, from the fourth Britilh.
By GEORGE, Lord Bilhop of and
PrefiJcnt of Magdalen College, Oxford.
ALSO,
Zimmerman on Solitude : Pricc bound and
lettered, 88 cents or 7-Sths of a dol
-1 ii"- —Also, Scott's Force of Truth;
price, bound and lettered 44 cents.
jfuji come to I,land, and for Sale,
DAVIS'S SERMONS
Complete in three vols. 8 vo.—price bound
5 dollars and 25 cents.
Jan. 26. 4t. ia\v.
Philadelphia, January 12, 1793.
MATHEW CAREY
Refpeftfully informs the Citizens of the
United States, that the Mapsfor his
intended edition of
Guthrie's Geography
IMPROVED,
Are now engfaving—and as soon as a fufficient
number of them are finjftied, to secure a regular
fupf»ly during the publication,which will proba
bl) be early next Spring, the work will be put
to press.
He returns his acknowledgments to the very
refpedtubv number ot fubferibers, who have come
forward thus earl\ to patronize this arduous un
dertaking. He aflures them and the public in
general, that no pains or expence (hall be Ipared in
j the execution of the work.
Terms cf the Work'.
I. IT fliall be pubiiihed in 48 weekly num.
i bers, each containing three sheets, or twenty-four
; pages, of letter press-, in quarto, printed with new
i types on line paper.
11. in the course of the work will be delivered
1 *bout thirty large maps, of the fame size as those
n the European editions, viz. most of them sheet
o>aps on port paper.
BefAti tbe maps in the Brttifo Edition,
this work ivi I contain nine or ten American States
Maps.
111. The price of each number will be a quar
ter dolhr, to be paid on delivery.
, No sdvar.ee'required.
IV. Subscribers who disapprove of the work,
n the publication of the three firft numbers, are
j be at liberty to return them, and ihall have
their money repaid.
V. The fubferibers' names fliali be prefixed as
patrons of the undertaking.
Subscriptions received in Philadelphia by
the intended publisher ; in New-York, by all the
uookfellers j in New-Haven, by JVI . Beers : i»
Hartford, by Mr. Patten ; in Boston, by Mefli
Thomas and Andrevs, and by Mr. Weft; if
Baltimore, by Mr. R.ice j in Richmond, by fvxr.
']. Caiey j in Charleston, by Mr, W. P. Young,
and by sundry other persons throughout the Uni
ted States. lawtf
For fate, at the printing a few copies
of the iirjl volume of the National Gazette#
; -
PRINTED BY
CHILDS and SWA IN E,
: AT THEIR OFFICE N05209, HIGH-STREET
JiEAR FIFTH-STREIT,
PHILADELPHIA*