Bv p. FRENEAU-. (at No. 209, Market Street) PMijhtd Wednesdays and Saturdays, [Three Dollars per annum.]
Numb. 91 of Vol. 11. j WEDNESDAY, September 11, 1793.
From the Newport Mercury of
Auguji 27.
Non ejjet fiodie Jei v-tus, si ebrittas lion
fuijjet.
WHEN the present ConstitUtion of Go
vernment was proposed :o the Citi
zens of the United States for their accept
ance, many serious objeitions were urged
against the principles upon which it was
conftruSed. —A numerous and resectable
party appeared in opposition to its adoption;
and, on its final eftablilhment, a powerfu
Tnineriiy continued to impede its practical
progress. Anarchy had been the evil pom
plained of under the oIJ system, and Ener
gy was recommended as the remedy in the
new. It is not then to be wondered at, that
in receding from tj>e one extreme, we
iliould approach too near the other.
It was not long before the revolution o.
France oflered to the discontented paity,
profpeitof redress. They beheld in the
French revolution that full-grown perfec
tion of principle, which they before pol
fefled t he delire Qf obtaining,without a con
ceptiou of the means, of a thorough know
ledge of tlie object; and thus the Unitet
States were alijlolt univerfall/ divided intc
the blind admirers, and inveterate enemiei
of F ranee. —The former opposed with the
greatest rancour the measures ot our go
vernment, Jeemiffgly rather with a view oj
producing its diflolution tlian of accom
plishing a reform, while their real & sincere
willtes were, without doubt, pointed at the
great object of afllmilating the ConfVitutioi
of the United States to ah uniform am
universal Syftemot Equality and the Right
of Man. And at the fame time the ene
mies of France were distinguished by ai
implicit adherence to the ConstitUtion, anc
an indifcrimiiia;e admiration of its detefl;
and virtues. Zealous in the fopport ol
what tiiey emphatically styled an '• ener
getic Geverhrtlent." they appeared resolv
ed to deflroy oppolicion, rather than to ex
cite confidence and accommodate opinions
lathis fituatioo were the United States o(
America at the commencement of the pre
sent war between Great Britain and France.
At peace with the one, and in alliance with
tjie other —our ficuatioa was new and al
mod unparalleled in the political world.—
The declaration of war had been made b>
France —as allies by a defenfive treaty we
were not therefore obliged to become a
party to the Cornell:. 11l coufequence oi
which the Prelident of the United States
thought proper to illue a Proclamation,
declaring their neutral dispositions, and
enjoining 01 tlie citizens thereof to oblerve
" a conduct friendly and impartial towards
the belligerent powers."
This Proclamation, thus iflued, has be
come a fubjeft of universal fpeculatiou—
It has been ably combated by the friends
of liberty, both on the grou ui of confli
tution llity and neceflity. It has been con
sidered as an aflumption of prerogative in
consistent with the principles of liberty
and universal right—And it appears thai
the result of the investigation, even 01
these primary queltions, is at leafl proble
matical-
If, however, the President of the Umtec
States has exercised a power not altogether
warranted hy the ConstitUtion, or juftifiec
by the neceflity of the cafe, I doubt not but
that the citizens of a free republic wili
exteud their charitable indulgence to ar
error which could have arisen from 11c
other than the bell and most honorable
motives, and I doubt not that they will
conlider the imperfections of a great ant
faithful-fervant of the people as the venial
weaknefies of humanity, inseparable fron
the highest degree of wisdom fliort of omni
science 1
But if this proclamation had beenfufrerec
to relf and take its fate with other govern
mental a£ts, in the torrent of public opini
on,lefs anxiety might have been occafionec
in the breast of that meritorious charaftet
who gave it existence.—But such is the
wild an 1 savage appetite of Aristocracy.
that it is not fatiJfied with carrying the
point in contest, but it inuft receive tht
ratification of mankind to its ambitious
fcheines.
111 this manner have aflemblies beer
convened in v rious parts of the Union, tc
exprefa their approbation «f this Procla
mation not with the sincere defigil of giving
a fatisfaftion to the Prefider.t of the Unitec.
States, or with a design of securing aftricl
observance of the neutrality : but with
the mercenary view of calling an obloquy
upon the French nation, and of 1 xsitiug ai:
anjmoflty ajaiujl tfefir [uiaripifisf
And, where is the propriety of callingon
us to sanCtion that, which from its queftion
o:i able nature tfe mult tirft pardon ? Is it
not fufficieu? that the haggaid dayman of
prerogative {I?uuld dare fcreft its baneful
crelt tor a mbment in the Land of Liberty,
but we must be called upon to ratify the
foul corruption ? I call it with confidence
a " foul corruptionfor whenever the
power of exprelling the will of the people
relTdes in one man, this power is subversive
of the principles of equality and reciproci
ty,and can be termed no other than a Pre
rogative of Despotism.
Perhaps I (hall now be accused with tin
inconflftency of palliating as pardonable ir
pratlice, that which I have execrated as :
corruption in principle —but supposing
corruption to exilt in the principle of oih
Conll'itntio-n, will not this vicious principle
operate as upon the adminjftrator:
of the government ? If the inflriiment b)
which they ast is Reformed, will not theii
administration partake of its deformity r
And when the bounds of duty are inde
finite will they not plead the imperfeftior
ai a palliative for encroachment? Tc
conclude, is not the Conflitiition of the
United States in many refpetfs, incdM
PLF.TE, INCONSISTENT, and SUSCEPTI
BLE of Amendment ?
To thislaft quefticn some will reply with
ihe loud clamourous affirmation of high
toned Democracy and tinreftraincd licen
tioufiiefs—While others with the wary re
serve ofariftocratic importance, or with a
sneer of confciolis security i 1 the poUeflloti
t>f unmerited honors, will caution us to be
an our guard against the faHatacifm of de
magogues, and the enthtiliafni of the vul
var —They will tell us there i> a natural
arlftocracy in every nation, which mult be
•eprefented by ajuperior order, nd fup
"orted in fuper'or Jplendor ; and thus b>
the honest and mifgnided zeal of the one
:art.y, together with the impudent and ar
cogant presumption of the other, the mn
:ual and reciprocal good of the whole is
,ort and forgotten.
And what is the caij't of this animosity r
The want of a liberal and enlightened fyf
em of moral and political philosophy. 1 he
want of that system which inult ceacf
mankind that the good of the whole, and
jf each individual, are universally recipro
cal.
And if the system is attainable, 'to what
causes are we to be indebted for its eltab
liiliment ? To this interesting q'uellion the
philosophic mind replies svithout hehtation.
Co the Revolution of France and. the pre
valence of French philosophy—To the ge
neral difi'effiiiiation of that philolophj
which his eftablilhed in the tumults of wai
and the dissolution of empires, this lacrec
fundamental of universal happiness anc
philanthropy, " Liberty coniifts in the
power of doing every thing that is not in
jurious to the rights ol others."
It has been argued in favour of the Pro
clamation, that it was necefl'ary as a forma
ast of government, and at the Jame timt
that the people might retain their predilec
tion in favour of France in their individua
capacities. But, we now behold the aristo
cracy in a new and more formidable lhape
We behold them summoning the people
together for the express purpose of decla
ring as individuals that they will observe s
" condnftfriendly and impartial toward:
the belligerent powers," at the fame time
that they are bound not only by solemn Iti
pulations of treaties, but by every tie ol
interest and gratitude to grant particulai
immunities and privileges to one of thole
powers in preference and to the exclufioi
us all the others ! However such a decla
ration might comport with governmental
policy, it was to have been hoped that the
Dopular voice might have been unpollutec
by profefiions in favour of tyranny.
There is one consideration which alont
ought to forbid us from making a declara
tion in favour of the Proclamation, which
is, that with such.a declaration is necelfari
lyconnefted an avowal of sentiments liof
tile to the liberties of France, and conse
quently to our own.—An opposition tc
principles inevitably involves an opp6fitioi
to measures proceeding from similar prin
ciples ; and as the Proclamation has beei
Supported ou principles an J by persons ini
mical to general liberty, it is to be hopct
that we (halt not concur in their views anc
abet their designs,
By giving the fanftionof the public voice
to the Proclamation, we (hall involve con
sequences which do not immediatc!y;ppear
on a cursory view of the fubjeft ; as in the
tirft place, we lhallratify anafi'umption* ol
power, and" au infrhigenjeiit of the fufida ■■
mental rights of equality—Secondly, we
(hall fay ameafure so general and notorious,
create i c'uldnefs with the only nation on
e: rtl. to which we can look up with that
confidence ariling frem a similarity ot' prin
ciples, and a mutuality or' intereih ; and
laftl;, -ve (hall incur the contempt ot" Great
Britain, and all the combined powers, by
Inch a pnlillanimous adjustment ot'our po
litical IVntimehts to the versatile antl ini
quitous policy of"ddf'potic courts.
Bearing then in mind,that as with France
we survive, with France we peri (h J 'may
we pursue that line of conduct which fliall
molt favour her interest and our own tran
quility. r.hich will, without doubt, be that
jfafjflemof neutrality'conformable to,
and under the mollification of., ex'Jliilg
:i eaties, and not by exprcllisg that we will
n;rfue (t a conduct friendly and impartial
owarris the belligerer.t powers."
These observations are with deference
übmitted to the public, by one who pro
files himfeif an enemy t<3 pernicious prin
iplcs, wherever they may be found, and
26/ to mi (taken men sby one who wi flies
.veil to the governors of the United States,
it the fame time, that (ufmg the right of
?very free citizen) he disapproves of lome
>arts of the conllitutional system ; by one,
vho imputes their errors to the imper
"e£t definition of their powers, and who
sdifpofedto wait with patience for the
lappier moment of complete reform."
CALLISTHENES.
August 20, 1793.
* Although the Proclamation may pojfibiy
lot be an Aflumption of Power on the
principles of the Conilitution, it certainly
son the principles contended for by a
;reat proportion of the citizens of the
Jnited States, and in that sense termed an
' jufripgeiuent of the Rights of Equality.
J E R S E Y-C OAST
INLETS.
THE sea coast of New-Jersey, like thai
if the greater part 6fthe United States.
:»nlilts of a frontier of fea-i(land% with
"ounds of more or lets extent within, ge
lerally from 5 to 7 feet in depth, and com
uunicating with the sea thro' inlets that
eparate the islands. The islands are uni
"ormly long and narrow, frequently mere
rtnd banks thrown up by the sea, without
i bush or a tree on them ; in other parts
:overed with wood, particularly a ("mail
pedes of cedar, and more southerly wkli
lve-oak, palmetto, &c. On the cuall ol
Georgia and S. Carolina, these illands be
come pleasurable retreats, and exhibit de
lightful and romantic scenes. The fame
may be said of those on the coast ot Flori
da. The island of Amelia is a verdant Pa
radise.
From Sandy Hook to Cape May there
is an abundance of inlets, which admit the
flood tide with rapidity, but in general tnej
are so narrow and (hallow, that while the
tide ("wells on the main beach,at an average,
ix. feet, it scarcely l ifes more than twe
feet and an half in the founds within.
The firlt inlet we meet with fuiith o(
Saiiniy Hook, is that ®f Shrewfoury, which
jives entrance into a river tof the fame
name, running several miles into the coun
try, in two branches, one north, the other
011 th. The bar on this inlet is very dan
gerous, and at present only admits petti
jugers, and other flat veflels, of not more
:han j feet draft of water. The entrance
a'f the river is about eleven miles S.S.W.
as the light house.
Squan inlet is the next in ofder, about
;o miles from the Hook, very fliallow and
scarcely pafTable by the fmallelt boats. A
few miles further we come to Barnegat
inlet, which admits vessels of 6 or 7 feet
draft of water into a large bay.
Cramberry inlet is the beit on this part
of the coast, and here at full sea a veflefw itt
a pilot may carry in ljfeet water. The
south channel is at present the belt. From
this inlet we enter a spacious bay, anc
lteering westerly, Toms river, which will
carry a vessel of 30 tons several frilss up
ths country. Lumber and tar are the on
ly articles of export from this river.
Little Fgg Harbour lies 60 n iles from
the Hock 111 lav. 39. 30, and is by far the
belt inlet on the whole Jersey sea coast.
Captain Dennis of the Vigilant cutter, has
carefully surveyed this channel, and given
the following directions to such as may
have occalion for entering it.
•' WHEN you are in the lat. 39, 30. N.
and wilh to proceed into L'ttle Egg Har
, boar, run in far the land till yuu discover
[Total Numb. 195 ]
two beaconj on or near the extreme point '
of the In . beach. Bringing then,in one line
they will bear W NiW. from you. Run in
that direction till \ cu pass the (outhbrealc
er-head, which lies on the larbord hand.
You will then discover two beacons on
Tucker's beach, bearing S. VV.byS. at
the fame time Tucker's lioufe will bear
S. W. By fleering in this direction, you.
v. ill carry in 12 feet water over a middle
ground, which lies on the llai bord hand.
Eut in order to keep the best water, yon
ft haul close in with the south breaker,
is the re is no danger within half a cableli
length, where you will carry from ;6to 18
feet Water, and regular foundings on the
[iarbord hand, with fufficient room to work
1 top-fail veflel, that does not exGeed 12*
reet, but with a leading wind you may run
n with a draught of 1401* 15 feet, with
afetv. When yoa are up with Tucker's
leach, W. N. W. is your course to the
t" ox Burrs, or Welt Marfli, which you may
ie along fide of with fafety, in 16 feet
A-ater. This harbour is very convenient
n the winter season, being free from ice,
md several other obstacles.
The beacons on the N. beach aretwd
pars, 45 feet in length, ami a sixty gallon
:afk half way up ; and a ten gallon calk on
:he top, each painted black, the spars are
white. 1 hose on Tucker's beach are
pars painted white and red with a plank
lalf way up, in a horizontal direction, and
black. rhefe beacons are perceivable at
!ix or eight miles dillance."
Between Little Egg Harbour and Cspe
Vlay, there are a number of inlets, but
lone of a.<iy conliderable conference, ex*
:ept that of Great Egg Harbour. 011 th~
jar there are from ioto 12 feet at full
:ide j but the channel is intricate, and re
juiresan experienced pilot.
[From the General Advertiser.3
IT has been said that the combined flee(&
jf England and Spain, have failed to attack
Touiou. To (hew how improbable such
in alfertion is, we are favoured with the
'(■Mowing account of the amazing llreneth.
3f that city.
Toulon is defended by at least 700 pieces
if cannon, inoft of which are 24 and 36
sounders. The entrarfce into the har
lour is about two miles wide, and is de
fended firft by a battery of 12 camion oit
:ape Sepet, near which is a signal tower ;
lext by another battery of l'Hopital, of 10,
immediately opposite this by the Grande
Tour of 20. Fort La Majgue of 200 guns Sc
iniong these some calverines that carry
ipwards of 4 miles, and are 18 or 20 feeC
ong, fs immediately behind Grande-Tour,
irotefts also the entrance and commands
:l>e great road, De la Valette, on the fide
afSavoy.—Petite-Tour of 12 guns is also
nearly opposite Grande-Tour,and is thelall
fort at the end of the arm of the sea which
torms the eutrauce into the bay of Toulon.
The pafl'age from this place te the citi ,
about two leagues, is extremely narrow.
:rooked & difficult,& can be navigated only
Dy the affiltance of buoys which mark the
:hamiel and may be ealily removed. The
whole of these two leagues of bay is wirh
n the reach of the cannon of Grande ami
Petite-Tour, or of the batteries ofTou
on ; which are in double tiers, the whole
ength of the port and extremely formida -
ble. So much for an attack by sea, which
co fail of the line would not be late in
lttempting.
If troops ftflOuld" be landed to tbe weft or
Toulon, which would be very difficult
rom the abruptness of the shore, (till they
ivqtild meet with iiifurmountable difficul
ies in an attack on Toulon in this quarter
fhe old fortifications of this city have been
trengthened by the addition of new walls
ig'ainft the old, anil an additional ditch j
ort Louis on this fide presents also a for -
nidabie pbltacle; but besides, in this
quarter of the environs it would be impof
ible to attempt a (lege,for breaking ground
s impraclicablc, owing to the inimeruui
:oiffiderable springs of w atei, with which
he ground abounds.
On the eattern fide of the city, nature
lasoppofed few obflacles, but art has won
lerfully encreafed them. Fort La Malgue,
if 200 guns,„ we have already said, com
mands this quarter; from this fort to the
:ity is a covered way, from which an ene
my could be much annoyed, and besides
these, are forts St. Marguerite of 40 gun: ,
Artigne of 30, and F.ron v f 12, which all,
from different heights command the resit
aud plain "below The Jail fpir.uuaf'ifort is lltnated on a rock so steep and so
illfficult of access, that the cannon with
which it is fortified were obliged to be cud
on it, the materials being carried lip by the
labour of men. This fort, however, not
withllawd'iHg its height, has tile ad vintage
of an unfailing spring of Water.
It vvas on this si.de that in 1744, prince
Eugene attacked it with a formidable land
force ; but after a two months' fiejje was
obliged to abandon the enti rprize. This
quarter can also be proctfted by fiiips,
whose cannon may be bro't to bear upon
an enemy beywnd the covered way. Thi>
was fully experienced at the attack by
prince Eugene, whose a. my was put in
- great difordcr by the fire of four lliip
brought there during the nipjit. Toulon
has a fortified port, in which a confidera
b!e fleet may be kept fequre and used in
cafe of need, at a short warning. Its gar
rilon is generally 12,000meu, half soldiers,
half sailors.
REFLECTIONS on ftvetal SUBJECTS.
1. There is a certain party in this coun
try, who in politics maintain tha-fame per
lecuting spirit as actuated the old catholics
a century or more ago in matters of reli
gion. Enemies to free dlfcnfiiOn, they
gnarti their teeth at all who prefti'ne to
speak a different language from themfeives,
or even hint their difVent from what is ve
ry absurdly calicd the reigning politics of
the land. Are the United States in a firiu
ridiing condition ? It is instantly af'cribed
to the wisdom of tne party, when it is evi
dent that peace, indoftry, and our increaf
,ed population are the real causes of what
prosperity there is among us, rather thai]
dark paper tricks and jobbing contrivances.
—This party also call themselves the go
•oemmeiit : and are angry if the m'oft un
limited confidence 13 nut reposed in them.
Hence fait hand not truth. becomes their
political motto, and (as in all religions e
itablifhed by law) they take care to substi
tute my {icy for knowledge, and require a
Tjlind idolatry, where even simple beliel
ought only to proceed from the mull en
lightened conviction.
2. The funding JyJ}em will for ever re
main a blot upon the chara&er of the admi
niltration by which it was framed. The
inteßt of it vvas to enable speculators and
moneyed men to defraud the public of the
paper securities they poflefl'ed, There wa:
a time (may it never return) when specu
lators coulil calculate events in Congress
The wounds fufFered by individuals from
paper money were healing, bnt by convert
ing this ideal fabric of w ealtb into a fyflem,
a few cunning individuals have been able
to lpeculate on the property of a nation.
The ajfumption is a finking feature of this
fyflem. The people asked for no fueh thing,
nor did any urgency press it. But it fa
voured the views of administration ; ftatc
debts fold at a low rate and therefore
might easily be monopolized. In lliort, the
funding system was intended to efFea what
the bank was contrived to accelerate ; »iz.
nn accumulation of great wealth in a few
'hands; apolitical moneyed engine; and,
lastly, a fupprefliou of the republican ftatc
aflemblies, by depriving them of the poli
tical importance retailing from the impo
sition and dispensation of taxes. The
whole original design then of this system
was to destroy the conftittition, and to e
re£t upon its ruins a usurpation, not fane
tioncd by the national will, or acknow
ledging tbe fundamental principle, that
the people are the only legitimate foun
tain of civil government.
3. "It (liould be one great object of every
honest governn ent to counteract and dis
countenance a certain love of diliinttion,
generally mod obfervablg in the vain and
Worthless members of a community, but
more or less prevalent in all mankind, and
always operating towards the support of
arillocracy in any government, efpecialiy
■where foftered by influential or govern
mental mjn. We are told the Saviour of
the world was unacceptable to the Jews
principally because his million was not
amid the blaze of temporal and princely
splendor, but rather in the garb of humili
ty and despised poverty. The French con
ftitutiun being founded upon the broad ba
ils of equality of political rights, or in
other words, giving the poor man the fame
rights as a rich one, in point of political
privilege, has consequently become odious
to the royalists and ariftotrats of every
country. Perish their principles with them !
and may that system speedily fall into rain,
which establishes the happiness of a small
part of the human species upon the misery,
and degradation of millions.
4. As the ancient enemy of mankind
took his feat on a certain occasion anions
the sons of God, it cannot be denied that
abundance of paper men have, in times
pad, in like manner been introduced into
■Congress, or been changed into paper-men
after they got in. From that moment, as
far as lay with them, the public good was
facrificed to their private interest. Hence
too, an unnatural alliance„took place be
tween certificate and bank-flock holders.
The public money is depolited in the bank,
and tfie higher the taxes, the more of this
Snoney is lodged therein, and consequently
the more paper the bank can circulate oil
sj:s credit, the grcate.r will ba its pro-
Tits. If the bank will stick by a niinifler,
a m'nifter will {tiek by the lt nk. The
amount of taxes and loans are known from
the minister's ediinates, and when these
are laid before Gongrefs, paper-men in a
bundance step forward to support them,
having a private interest in'fhe accumula
tion ot public burthens ; and thus the mea-
Uires escape that itrict dlfenffion which
they ought ever to meet with from unbiaii
ed representatives. If a minilter fliould in
this way accommodate the bank, and turn
bank flock-holders into members of Con-
the bank and such members, may
alio accommodate him and his>fiieuds.
Odcalional accommodations of money, o
perating to acquire an influence ih Cou
grels, may be eaiily obtained by means of
a good understanding ; and a good under-
Handing is eaiily formed between good
friend;, united by the tlrongell of all ties,
mutualfipport.
5- Thole who observe the events of the
present day, -will refieft with horror and
indignatioh, that the moment a good un
derstanding began to luanifeft ii("elf be
tween the people of the French and English
nations, the court powers of both set them
elves in dirett opposition to every idea of
"heir mutual fricirtlfhip. The Britilh court,
leiug Hill in'<?xittence,have well succeeded
in reviving the old popular animosity, and
ill the virulence of national hatred ugainfl
:heir gailic neighbours. Hence we fee
:heir sailors ifill aduated by a ferocious
md cruel spirit ; a Frenchman when ir.
:heir power, is treated as their natural
'tieiny, a term of Kn'glilh growth, and
which, as Paine well observes* can, and
>ught,to be applied to tht devil only; & not
:o any nation of our fellew men. Thii
:!eltru£tive principle, however, of national
itiimolitv, excited by the artful and male
i'ol?nt spirit of monarchy, is growing ovit
>1 fafhion, and we ihali certainly find that
ivhen a general friendttiip prevails between
he people of different nations, courts and
cings will inltantly bG annihilated, or ra
her their fall will bea natural confequeilce
it a friendly coalition among mankind,
onnded upon the t,afisof lieeanu universal
:oimr.erce.
L 0 N D O N, Jn ly io.
Farticrt!ars «f acajat/ori again ft M. L,
Egalite {late Duke of Orleans.)
The ast states, Philip Joseph Egalite, ac
rufed of having made manyjonrnies to En
;land with a delign to engage the British
onrt to arm againlt France; of having
>roj»oled the marriage of his dati;;liter with
in Engliili prince, to promote which he cn
leavoiired, in concert with the court of
to get polleflion of Brittany, to
cparate it from France, and to unite it to
England ; of having monopolized the
.'rench corn, and exported it in foreign
/ellels; of having by means of intrigue,
ilevated Necker to the situation of comp
troller general ; of having after the rs'.ig
lation of Necker, excitcd the people by^ a
jorfufe d'ilributioti of money, to reiuft.itc
lim in the ministry ; of having intrigued
>vi th Mirabeau, in order to get himfelf
sroclaimt'd king of France ; and of having
iromlfeil him millions if he could by any
neans in -his ;power prevail on the con
lituent Ailembly to place him on the
:hrone by the expullion of- the reigning
prince ; of having kept up, by force oi
•.old, a numerous party both in Paris and in
he Provinces; of having cauferi to be fecret
y made many millions of millitary drefl'es;
J nil buttons numbered for different regi
nents that he proposed to raise, and which
lave been lince found in the cellars and
"übterraneous palfages of the house of V'il
ers, Cotterets, Du Raincy. and MofTeaux;
jf having collected together some of the
inert horses that could be procured, for
he purpose of furnidling himfelf with ca
valry; of having distributed money among
:milfarhes, during the tranfailious of the
;th and 6th of October, with the design
-■xciting the people to go to Verfaille'! for
he purpose of murdering the then existing
"oyal family ; of having kept up an anti
patriotic connection, anil holding a crimi
lal correfpondeHce with the ci-devant
nonfieilr ; of having been informed of the
:lepartur£ of Louis XVI. and his family
ti the month of June 1791, and of conceal
ng it from the constituent assembly ; of
laving constantly had private communica
tions with all the minilters ; the agents of
the executive power, to impede the ope
rations ol the legislators; of having kept
up a continual correspondence with Mont-
Tiorin, Delelfart, and Jabbe ; of having
:onfiantty perjured himfelf at the federa
tive fetes, in the oath which he took to
maintain the French conftitutioii, while he
endeavoured to overturn it ; of pretend
ing to have had an open rupture with, and
1 decided enmity for Conti, Penthievre,
ind his other relations, for the purpose o!
deceiving the legifhtors and the people,
while it was with these relations, that he
was forming a project to deflroy all those
who had fliaken off the yoke of despotism;
of having favoured the escape of the par
ricide Lambefo, of Polignac, and ofCat
jn."e ' hav ! n S abetted the divisions and
*uimofities that prevailed in many provinc
es of the Republic, by keeping in pa; a
lierd ot intriguers; of having engrtged wri
ter?, by means of pecuniary recompences
and particular protection, to sing his own
praises, and vilify M. de la Fayette; the
then commander of the Parilian Guaid,
with the dehgn of being Mmfelf elevated to
the throne ; of having carried On an epi
lloiai y correspondence with tlie ci-dev'ant
count d'Artois, for the ptirpoff of engag
ing the kings of Spain and Sardinia to enter
into a league with the emperor, the kings
oi Pruflia, England, and Portugal, with
Rtjliia, and the eleffors, to attack our ar
mies, to invade the French territory, to
annihilate the constitution, and to ettablilh
monarchy; of having aflil-led at private
midnight meetings, and those 'ofßuzot't
wife in the Fauxbourg St. Germain, which
were composed of Dumourier, Roland
and his wife, Vergnienx, BriCot, Genfon
ne, Gorfas, Louvet, Petion, Gaudet, &c.
of having openly received Dumourier at
his honfe latt winter, as his molt intimate
friend ;of having concerted with him the
til ft operations ot the campaign ; of having
engaged to make our troops retreat from
Holland. Belgia, and Brabant, and to give
the Pruliians and Auftrians every opportu
nity of entering on the territory of the Re
public ; of having engaged his eldelt foil to
follow the example of Dumourier; of
having correfpondecl with that general at
the very moment that he was preparing to
deliver up the magazines and the various
treasures of Belgia, and even the town it
felf; of having voted the punifhmentoi
Louis XVI. with ail intention of reviving
royalty after the death of his relation: oi
having lately travelled through the Pro
vinces and the different departments oi
Brittany and Normandy : us having, b)
himfelf and his agents, corrupted the in
habitants, by exciting them again to de
mand a king, under the pretext that thei
world be more happy under a Monarch;
than under a RepuDiic, where every oiu
wifKedto rule,and by engaging them to re
ceive and join fucli of tile Englilh as fhoulc
land there; of having conspired with tin
generals V alence and Durcourier again!!
the patriots of the National Convention ;
of having by his influence, caused the no
mination of all his partizans, the ci-devanl
nobles, and the enemies of the Republic,
of liberty and equality, to the command ol
the French armies ; in fine, for being the
author of the dilturbance-s which have ta
ken place relative to thefcarcity of bread,
for the purpose of promoting a civil war ;
of driving away the National Reprefenta
tive°, and of making the people again crv
nut for the ancient government; of having
exerted all his endeavours to annihilate
the conflation and ihe Republic, and o]
beinggudty of high treason.
General Cufline'/ Let'er to the Nationa,
Convention, dated Cambray, July 2.
l 'l announce to you with pieafure, that
the troops of the Republic have been at
tacked in various advanced po!h; but the
French soldiers have repulsed with greal
loss the Janiflariss of the united despots at
Pont a Marc. The action was very
brilk; the enemy arrived with the confi
dence of certain viflory ; after a long and
brisk action they were obliged to abandon
their enterprize, and retreat very much
hurt: we haveJo(tlittle; the communica
tion of Lisle with Douay by Pout a Marc
has been preserved. Pontaraihe has been
attacked, as well as the Abbey of Flins;
but at every pod the enemy had 110 advan
tage ; they were forced to retreat ifter a
levere conllitt, and without having made
us lose ground, in spite of their great fupe'
riority of men and artillery. Under the
reign of liberty, it we can obtain a military
organisation which can proinife us a hap
py discipline. the diftinftive charailerHtics
ot the military of a ftourifhitig Republic,
our luccefs will be enlured, and soon kings
and their vile courtiers will be forced to
renounce their iufolent pretentions of giv
ing laws to a nation which has taught all
people to know their rights and their pow
ers Believe, citizen Prelident, in my en
tire devotion to the imerefts of the Repub
lic." _
DEPARTMENT OF STATE:
r HEREBY certify that I have received
A official communication of a Decree of
the National Convention of France, where
of the following is a translation.—
Decree of the National Convention of
the 23d ot May, which declares that the
vessels of the United States are nut com
prehended in the ptirviau of the decree of
tiie 9th of May.
Ihe National Convention after hav
ing heard the report of it's committee
ot public fafety, wifliing to maintain
the union eftablilhed between the French
Republic and the United States of A
inerica, decrees that the vefTels of the
United States are not comprehended in
[/es dijpofitians] the purvieu of the decree
of the 9th of May, conformably to the
16th article of the treaty executed the 15 th
of February. 1778.
A true copy.
Le B R UN.
Given under my hand this 9th day of
September, 1793.
Tk : JEFFERSON.
PHILADELPHIA.
Wednesday, September ij.
Yesterday morning the Prefktent of the
United States, and family, fee out from
tiiis city, oil a tour to Virginia,
The late General Aflembly of Tennfyl
vania commenced the 27th ofAuguft and
ended the sth day of September following
During their session, five afls were pafl'ed'
and one supplement to an act. Their sud
den adjournment was occafiojied by ihe
peltilemiaJ fever prevailing in this city.
T he Mayor lias informed the citizens of
Philadelphia, that the number of persons
carried eft by the above mentioned difor
<-er, from its enrlieft appearance to the
2d of September (inclusive) did not ex
ceed 140.
By letters received in town, from Ma
drid dated the 11th July, it appears that
riellegarde surrendered to the Spaniards
Oil the 24tli of June, and that Nice\\a«
evacuated by the French, njo,i the ap
proach of the Spanish fitet, with great
loss; b
The Spanish fleet of 30 men of war was
previously joined by the Britifli of 27 fail
of the line in the Mediterranean.
We hear the king of Spain js now raif
mg a new regiment of Life Guards, all
conlifting of South American noblemen -
fuppolcd to be particularly attached to his
majeffy both from interest and inclination.
l'> an fib't ad men.Hem Jle/i a fepten/riona is.
Extract of a letter from Maryland, Sept. 5.
•' Some persons are much afraid of of
fending Gieat-Britain, and thereby brine
nig the refeutment of that nation on the
L lilted States. Put what has America
moie to fear from Britain than from any
other nation : or what has America done
to draw down BritiOi indignation upon us
more than that of some other powers. The
favour granted to the French, to fell their
prizes in our ports, extends to all the ene
mies of F ranee. Ihe fears of certain per
sons are- therefore grotmdiefs, for nothing
has been done to give the I'.nglifh the lealt
offence ; but the most fhameful indignities
have been fliewn by them u> the American
flag. A very learned gentleman of the
law, it is true, has given it as his opinion
on the 22(1 article of the treaty with
France, that we have given ground of coni-»
plaint from England ; but that gentleman
is known of old to be extremely unwilling
to fay any thing agaiult a nation whom
many among us seem so afraid of offending.
The language ofthe aad article plainly im
plies, that " altho' other nations are pre
vented from certain privileges, yet the
French by no means are," or certainly the
treaty would have beea more explicit :
becanfe the delign of treaties is to give
particular advantages to the parties form
ing them. It was natural, 011 citizen Ge
net's coming to a newly cftabiifhed repub
lican government, in alliance with France,
to expect much more of a patriotic and
sympathetic spirit among a people who
have but in ft emerged from
oppression, than what he has seem Tiie
fact is, the sentiments of the people at large
have not been taken, and the few who
have written on a candid explanation of
the treaty, were faltely accnfed of being
influenced by Mr. Genet. The mifrepre
fentatioH of the treaty, has for its object
the reparation of America and France, left
liberty fliould triumph over intmarcliy, end
equality over despotism."
In the feflion of the National Conven
tion on the 4HI of June, " a band of black
people, of both sexes, amidst the found of
martial music and efcortcd by a vast croud
of Parisians. came into the hall, to return
thanks to the Legiflqtors. for having raised
them to the rank of MEN. The President
gave the fraternal kiss to asi old Negress.
114 y,ear» of age, and mother to 11' chi
ldren. After which she was ref'peaully con
ducted to an arm chair, and seated at the
right hand of the Prefulent, amidst the
loudest bursts of applaufij."
F.xtraa of a litter from Full's Bay Set
tlement, (S. Carolina) dated Aug. 15.
" The eleaion of a Negro to serve as a
town clerk of Eafton, has given cause of
no little difgtiit in Charleflon, and some
other places of this ft.rte. It isconfidered
as a kind of eccentric aa, and operating in
tome degree contra bonus meres. W ehave
many negroes even here, vhofe real merit
and acquirements would perhaps entitle
them to be town clerks of'Charlelton itfelf;
but that is not to lay that the city of
t-harlefton will ever el.ea a negro to be
her town clerk.''
Extraaof a letter from London, dated
.J , ! ly 2 7' "
11 1 he-indiscriminate effVas of our im
press is likely to raiie a serious question be
tween tl is country and the United States.
Protections are granted to American sail
ors upon affidavit ofthe captain, that they
ai e natives of the said itates. In many in
fiances, however, Americans have been
preff'ed, and in two inftnnces have been
detained prisoners, ei'en after a writ of
habeas corpus was iflued for bringing theni
before a Two Americans werepre (Ted a month ago at Wapping. The
captain with whom they hail failed had
made oath before the lord mayor, of their
being natives of che United Stares, and
protection had been granted them. The
faille wric was granted three days after, by
SIR Nafli Crofe, to bring their bodies be
fore him, to ascertain the fatf of their be
ing Americans or not, but the writ has not
been obeyed, and the/ are ft ill kept on
board. X an) informed that proofs of these
lasts have been tranfuiitted to America ;
& the cases of falfe imprisonment arc to be
brought in tlte mea.i time before a jury.
There is something very lingular in the
fort of protection from being preil'ed, that
is now granted to the American seamen ol
American fliips trading to the port of Lon
don. } was a few days ago on board an
American veflel, now in the Thames, and
Avas told by the chief mate, that his pro
yeflion (though lie has a certificate from
the American Secretary of State, declaring
that he is a native of that country) did not
protect him in any other place than the
veflel of which he was on board ; and that
he was oblged to fend for a taylor to moa
fure him for a suit of cloaths 011 board, be
raufe he was in danger of being prefi'ed if he
went 011 lliore ; and yet this mate h id pro
perty on board to the amount of mmj
thousand pounds, and will probably be ap
pointed to the command of a vell'ei in less
than fix months."
Last Sunday morning between three am
four o clock, a very alarming tire broke
out in the back buildings of .Mr. Kennedy 7 :
house, in Second between Market am
Chefnut-ftreets, which soon communicatee
to Mr. Dobfon's printing-office and the (fa
bles and warehouses contiguous thereto
all of which are entirely conrnmed— Tht
difficulty of playing on the fire in this con
fined place, was found hi be considerable
and notwithlfanding the usual exertions ol
the Fire 'Companies and Citizens, it wa'
one of the most eibftiifate fires to extinguift:
which we remember, indeed it is hard ti
fay to what extent the flames would have
spread, had it not been for the capita
manoeuvring* of the crews of the French
frigate La Precieufe duel the India fhif
La Ville de L'Orient, who came with theii
portable engines and forced themfelvesintc
the most dangerous llations where thej
could play upon those parts where oui
eugines could not be continually applied,
Too 'much praise cannot be given to the
officers and men from thele fliips—twe
persons were killed in the dreadful catas
trophe and several badly wounded—the
fire was a: length got down about five
o'clock.
Another account of the eleftrnftive fire
on last Sunday morning is as follows :
" At about half p ift three o'clock the
soap-house of Mr. Andrew Kennedy
(Chand'er), back of his dwelling-house
in Second, between Market and Chefnut
ftreets, was discovered to be in flan es
The citizens were soon apprized of if, bui
were not able to flop the progress of the
f re, u.itil it had done very considerable da-
Two buildings, the property ol
Mr. Kennedy, together with the work'
and" improvements, which he has of late
been at a very great expence in erecting,
were entirely confrimeel. The fire pro
ceeded from thence (consuming in its way
two small franle9, the property of Mr.
Flickwir) to the printing-offices of Mr.
Thomas Dobfon, which were nearly de
stroyed, with printing materials to a large
amount. ' We cannot form a just calcula
tion of the whole 'ols, but, by the bell in
formation we can at present collect, sup
pose that Mr. Dobfon and Mr. Kennedy
together, are fuft'erers to the amount of ai
least 2DCOI.
" 'Tis with unpleafirg fenfatiom that we
add to this melancholy iketeh, the fate ol
a young man of this .city (Mr. Williarr
Cooper), near 2 1 years of age—who wa
killed by the parting of a fide wall of one
of the burning houses, while lending hi:
aid to quell .the conflagration. Two fine
children, eac,h about nine years of age
forhe time after the fire had been cxtiu
guilhed, were unfortunately buried, by a
limilar parting of the wall, in i f s ruins.
They were both found in a few minutes
One of them, the daughter of Mr. Win.
Richardson, was quite dead ; —the other,
a daughter of Mr. Roger Fla>avan, fliewec
forne ligns of life—and we are (ince inform
ed that hopes are entertained of her reco
very."
By the fliip Alexander, Woodward, from
Killybegs, arrived last Saturday in 42 days,
there are letters received in this city which
mention great discontents prevailing among
the people in the Weft and North of Ire
land—some blood has been spilled at Sligo,
the regular troops are ordered from the
northern extremities of the island, to Bel
•fuft—the volunteers will not lay down their
arms, and flioiiM the French make a landing
near SJigo it was the opinion of many, that
the Roman Catholics and Presbyterians
would join them, so great is the abhorrence
of the people to corrupt measures of go
vernment, particularly the Roman Catho
lics who feel themselves imposed on by the
pretended relief offered Uiem in the late
laws.
Capr. Barrow, of the Briflol, arrived at
N. \ ork, from London, was boarded by
tlje Thetis frigate, lat, 41. lpnjf. Jt. £.Qi
whotreated him with the grc.iiift civility.
This frigate belonged to a British squadron
of / fail, that had taken 7 prices, then in
company, 4 of which were Ealt-Imliamen.
[NeiU; fork paper.]
Extract of a tetterfiom Baltimore, Aug. 30.
"Depend 011 it there is some newpiot ii
agitation. Letters received from N. Yoi i
make mention, that Galbaud had notifiet
the aristocratic French colonilts in these
Itafes to hold themselves in readiuefs tc
embark in one month. Touzard is here,
at the head of the corifpiratoi s, a perfor
whole life has been spired by the too leni
nt laws of France, and who is the leadei
of a plot tending to the prejudice of the
French caule; he is a man who has (bow
ed himfelf its mod violent enemy oil all
uccafions. He keeps up a conftaiit cor
respondence with Galbaud, Tangui La
boiliiere, and with Borel, at Charleston ;
GslbaJul has promised them the polfellion
of the Jup'tef. Preparation's are now
miking, threats are held fort-h. and they
pretend they are sure of the afiiftance ol
2000 men. It is more than probable that
the great outline of their pian is, to fail
for St. Domingo, to complete the e<leftruc
tion of the remainder of the sailors belong
ing to the fleet, and even destroy the fleet
itfelf. Many of these ariftucrats have
thrown off the lhafk, and there is not a
species of (lander but they vomit forth a
gaimt the French republic—Some of their
trdfty friends, nevertheless, are perpetual
ly prating of patriotism arid repuUlicanifm,
than which nothing is farther from theii
real sentiments, and it appears they have
the faihe object in view with the others.—
I fnall not lose fight of the heads of this
new conspiracy, but will inform you o]
every thifig. Guard Galbaud vigilantly
for he is the foul of the " conspirators."
[N. York Journal/
Governor Moultrie, of South-Carolina
'has ilTned a Proclamation, dated Atig. 23
prohibiting in the ftrittefl manner, the pi
lots of that port, from bringing up anj
vessels from the Welt-India iflauds nearei
than Fort Johufon ; till they have under
gone an examination by the Health-Officer:
and Physicians of the port. The famfc in
junition is laid on the pilots of the neigh
bouring ports cf George-Town and Beau-
I o rt.
We learn that the empress of Russia ha:
carried her inveteracy against the F.renct
To far, as to forbid veifels bringing an)
French produce whatever into her domi
nions.
From St. Juh'i's, (Porto Rico) Aug. 13.
" A French schooner of tS guns and i
(loop of 14 have entered a small port, the
weft end of Porto Rico and took out ij
fai! of Spanish veffeb, and afterwards de
manded and obtained a ransom from the
town of 14100 dollars. These two vefi'eli
then failed round the south and east fide
and picked up all the veifels they coulc
find."
itfaterforrl, (Ireland) June 17. " The
Romilh clergy are loli.ig their popularit)
fact among their own people, who fay they
have made a jobb of them with the go
vcrnment. In many places they have (h •
up the chapels, and fworu vengeance a
gainst the priests. In Carrick the prietts
have been obliged to celebrate mass behind
a ditch, to a few old women and children
for none else would goto hear them. Ii
is evident the Papiits are beginning to
think for themselves, and to despise the re
ligious dreams of antiquity.
*' No less than 700 bankruptcies have taker
place in England and Scotland, fmce the
commencement of the war ; public cre dii
was never so low in these kingdoms as ai
present ; we (hall be ruined it the warcon
tinues much longer."
Lexington, (Kentucky) Aug. 3. A vari
ety of concurring circumstances, tend tc
confirm a belief that the volunteers now
raifng in this state, will very shortly receive
marching orders ; confecjuently a report it
circulation that no campaign w ill goagainfl
the Indians this season, is without founda
tion.
Aug. 10. On the t(t inft. the Indians (tole
a number of horl'es belonging to the Q.. M
under the pickets at Fort Hamilton; the)
were pursued by a detachment of dragoons
and rifle-men, to the distance of about 4c
miles, where the Indians appeared in fucli
force, that the pursuers thought prudeni
lo decline coming to action.—The Indians
>ting in fnch farce near the out posts, is an
argument that the treaty has failed, and of
:ourfe the army will very fliortly receive
inarching orders.
Baltimore, Aug. 26. Lately ciied, aged
53, Mr. William Baker, of Suffolk, O. E.
ivhofe remains were interred the flrlt of
June —The weight of the deceased svas 30
Hone, or 42clbs. —His coffin was estimated
at 6 (tone weight—its length on the outlide
was 6 feet 3 inches—its width 2 fc-et j inches
and a half—its depth 1 foot 9 inches, belides
a part rai fed on the cover for the reception
of the breast and bowels, of full 7 inches
add a half.
Extract of a letter from the Territory
South of the Ohio, Aug. 16.
" On the 4th inft. Col. Dauaherty, of
Jsfferfon county, with 180 men, crossed the
Teneflee to the valley Indian towns, killed
jiiije fellows and two squaws, took
brought irtjwven prisoners, burnt twenty
towns and villages, and deltroyed a valt
quantity of vegetables. The whites had
nve men wounded—The inhabitants on
the frontiers are in dole forts, expeftiilg
a vilit from the Indians when the volunteer;
are tired of harraffing them. Indeed the
spirit of volunteering feeuvs to be on the
decline; only 40 men paraded on a signal
tor an expedition, a few days ago ; though
1 think a large company alight be railed,
under the function of government: and ii
is absolutely ueceflary to give them afeverc
fiogging, in order to b; ing them to a fenft
:>f their duty, arid teach them to pay some
refpeft to treaties."
Charlejlon, (S. C.) Anguli 27. —To the
Patriots of GJiarlefton —•• The challenge
which the commander of a Brit'rlh fiiip oi
war had sent to citizen Bompard, of the
French frigate I'AmbufCade, we havfc tc
announce to our republican friends, ha:
ended inoft gloriously to the navy of the
French Republic. It is an event worth)
in be celebrated by the friends of liberty
and equality in Charlelton, who are in
formed that a dinner will be provided al
Harris's on the Bay, on Tuefdsy next, a!
-I o'clock, to conirtiemorate the occalion.
Those who wifli to partake will be pleafer
to provide tliemfelves with tickets to be
iiad at Harris's 011 or before Monday next.-'
" I have attentively perused (fyys a wri
ter in the Kentucky Gazette) the publica
tions relative to the official conduit of the
Secretary of the Treasury.—The refoluti
nils 011 that subject were framed by a mem
t)er diftinguiflied for his republican princi
ples—were advocated by a Findley and ;
Madison, and were approvsd by one o
our Keprefentatives from this state whe
poCbfles in a high degree, the conlidenn
of his condiments. The result of tha
enquiry has alarmed many of the friend
of liberty, not only here, out ill every par
of the Union. I have heard the sentiment
of many of the moll enlightened citizen
of Kentucky on this fubjeit; all of whon
have exprefled their surprize that thofi
resolutions (hould have met with any oppo
lition. Wliy one of our Representative
his voted against them contrary to the opl
nion of his conllituents, is a question whicl
tuight to be explained : The gentleman u
ivhom I allude is now in this country, anc
1 hope has too jult a sense of the fourcf
rom which he derives his appointment
:o refufe or evade an explanation of the
principles upon which that vote was giver
—His constituents (hould know, why ar
Executive officer has with impunity, vio
lated the laws of our country - difobeyec
the inltru£tions of our firft magistrate—
Jiffipated our treasures. and insulted thai
legislative body, to which he is refponfibk
for his conduit.''
[From a late French paper.']
The old nobility of France are now re
duced to the molt abje£t rtate of beggar)
and alms-asking.- Not that they have it
reality changed their former occupation,
under the monarchy ; all the odds is thai
they now beg 011 foot, thro' Europe, anc
in a fubmiflive tone of voice; whereas,
formerly, and particularly in and aboul
Versailles, they begged, riding in gilt cha
riots and in a style ftf extreme impudence.
The following little incident palled late!)
at Duil'eldorf, where there are con(lantl)
of theft exiles. A chevalier of St.
Louis, having begged alms of a poor wafli
erwoman in a bye street, after hearing hi;
requelt, she anlwered—" Mondeur, I air
but a poor walherwoman, who fublilt wit!
difficulty by my daily labour."—" That i:
the very reason (replied the chcvalier /
why I address myfelf tft you ; it is onl)
from the wretched and unforturtate of thi:
world that we can get the leaf! trifle ol
charity !"—Upon that, the walherwomar
*ave him two foils, which the chevaliei
fiad the Jpirit to accept. Such things hap
pen daily: And yet there are Jome emi
grants who are not absolutely incorrigible
In Dufleldorf there are two noted ci-de
vant French nobles, who condescend tc
labour for a living. They hire them-
Pelves by the day to a Tobacco-lpinner
where'they turn the great wheel fron
mc-rning to night for 4 sous a piece!
The following pafTage is taken from the
British Annual Jiegt/ter, for 1781 " July
10 —Yeflerday was executed—and the bo
dy hung in chains—Capt. rownfend, of
the Rover privateer, of" Bristol, convicted
of plundering the fliip Victoria, a Venetian,
Capt. Sylvefler, of one lilver watch, 39 dol
lars, and fix cages with binds, she being a
neutral vefiel."
If the fame justice would influence the
Britifti government al this time, the plun
derers of American vessels will mfet the
puniftiment their piratical conduct justly
merits."
To do juflice to the crew of the French
frigate fREeiEVsj: and of La Vjj.i.e
de i.'Orient it mult be said, that their
exertions, by means of two portable en
gines were of the firft confluence in ar
reting the progress of the flames on Sun
day morning Jail. Th c of their en
gines permitted their be of fcVvice,
where the water of" tht: could feurce
iy reach.
_Miss Broadliurft, and Mr. Marfhali, lath
ot Covent Garden Theatre, Mrs. Shaw, of
Drury Lane House, with several other
pei tormers, failed for America on the 13th
of July, to fulfil their engagements with the
manager of the Philadelphia Theatre.—
so fays a London paper of July 18.
On tlie Bth of Augtili, a Iliip of war,
ind twelve transports, with 2 regiments
;>n board, arrived at Barbadoes from Ha
ifa*.
Extract ot a letter Jrom a gentleman ia
Barbadoes to his friend in Philadelphia,
Augult io.
."1 7 ' le E a '' ant major Gordon, who was
irincipal in taking Tobago, is since dead;
tie died in Dominica of a violent fever,
which has raged here as well as in all the
(lands to a very great degree : those who
lave been attacked with it have never lived
;o fee the fift i day.
Ks* THE fufferers by the late Fire, ai
tvell as those who by tile vicinity of their
ituation were :n their property and honfes
mmiriently exposed to the moll: alarming
J anger, take this early opportunity of
publicly returning their unfeigned acknow
ledgments to the prompt care and alacrity
at their fellow-citizens ; and in a particu
lar manner to the Republican Seamen
di" trAnce, who, by their meritorious
exertions, were highly inflrumental in the
preservation of several valuable buildings
in Second and Chefnut-flreets.
.N
The Mayor of this city communicates to
the public,that the African Society, touch
ed with the dillreffes which arise from the
present dangerous disorder, have volunta
rily undertaken to furnjjh Nurses to attend
the afflicted, and that by applying to Abfa
iom Jones, and William Gray, both mem
bers of that society, they may be supplied.
For the Nursing of the Sick and burial of
the Dead-
As it is a time of great distress in this ci
ty, many people of the Black colour, un
der a grateful remembrance of the favours
received from the white inhabitants, have
agreed to affilt them as fur as in their pow
er for narfiug of the flck, and burial of the
dead ; application made for either of the
above purposes to Absalom Jones, living
111 South Third street, a littie below Stam
per's alley, No. 165, or to Richard Allen,
in Spruce Itreet between Fourth and Fifth
(treets, No. 150, who have a knowledge
of the nurses, and keep horses and carriages
tor taking the dead to the burial ground.
Absalom Jones.
Richard Allen.
'Particulars relative to Gen. Dumourier.]
After his infamous ast of Treason, he
retired into-Switzei land ; but the inhabi
tants of every canton, where he made his
appearance, inttantly gave him unequivocal
:>i'oof> of their hatred and contempt, and
forced him to quit the country. He next
.00k refuge i;i Margentheim, a town of
:he electorate of Wishing to
remain there uninolefted he writ to the
:i-devant archbilhop of Mayence, who re
timed him an answer fully exprellive of
he contempt in which he held him, and
lis farprize that such a chsrafler as Dti
liourier should be found ifi
ivhofe absence he above all things wllhed.
Thus expelled from Margentheim, he
>afi"ed over into England, but scarcely had
he miriifier heard of his arrival, when ha
"ent liim a written order to leave the Bri
:ilh dominions within three dajs. Then
le returned to Brabant, where they ap
prehended him and sent him to a*remote
tillage. He was given to understand that
he might rti'nain there, and be at liuerty,
provided he would refrain from talking
and not put pen to paper. This is liberty
with a ivitiiefs—bwt such is evermore the
fate of traitors to their country. [.DJtts.J
*»* A certain poet once wrote a lono
poem to prove that it is " Contentment
oily that makes a person happy." On read
"g it to his patron, the latter objt aed to
liis pohtion. Why so ? said the poet—l'e
raufe (replied the other) " Riches art tl.c
yfouree of Contentment."
ALL persons in arrears for this paper,
ind polt mailers and others who may have
eceived fubfeription money 011 account of
lie fame, are requested to make speedy
emittances. , To prevent the dues fwel
mgto an improper amount, no papers will
3e continued to fubferibers after the firft
lay of November next, who (hall then be
ndebted more than fix months.—Punau
ality in fubferibers, is the firfl requisite in
undertakings of this nature, ami without
which it is impoJiible that any publication,
depending merely on fubferiptrion, can lonsr
exilr.
THE fubferrber finding his
Name mentioned as a candidate for
the OFFICE of GOVERNOR, deems it
incumbent upon him, in the moll: unequi
vocal terms, to decline the Election
(Signed) WILLIAM FINDLEY.
Weftmoreland county, Aug. 15, 1793.
[The Printers throughout the I'nitetf
States are requested to give tJie above n
p 111 ie in their papers. JEXTRACT.
AT a time when the friends to liberty
throughout the whole world'are re
joicing in the success of the French revo
lution, it cannot be viewed with indiffer
ence that there are fume among us who
fee their success with anger, and rejoice
at all their misfortunes. If it was but a
small number they would be regarded only
with contempt ; but it cannot be concealed
that these are the sentiments of a confi
derabJe body in the United States, and
of not a few in this city. The cause of
this depravation, both of the moral and
political principle, is worthy of out atten
tion.
It appears at firit unaccountable, that
persons living under a free government,
who make the laws tlat govern them, and
choose those who Execute the laws, should
refufe these fame rights to another nation,
much more refpe&able ir. arts, commerce
and population, than that of which they
are a part. If this dislike to the change
in the French government was owing to a
prejudice in favour of the former one, we
should have at once the reason for their
opinion. But I have never yet seen any
man, who dared to insult the reason of
mankind so much, as to speak in favour
of the former French government. Tiie
politics of that court wsre the foundation
of all the wars that have desolated Europe
lor above 2CO years. The ambition of
.Louis XIV. coil France ten times more
lives than have been 101 l in the present
revolution. The people at that time had
no share in the government. It was the
king who made the laws ; and some idea
may be had of the fufferings of the people,
wheu I affeit, that from the days of Clovis
to Louis XVI. a space of 1300 years,
there was not one good king on the throne
of France ; not one who made the happi
ness of his people his lludy.—lf t* this
we »dd the power of a clergy, pofTeffiyg
one fifth part of the lands, and devoted
entirely to sensuality and indolence ; and
who granted pardons for all crimes, as they
praflifed them freely themselves.—The
mod lively imagination cannot conceive a
greater combination of evils, ta a/HltSk
mankind.—And when this government,
through its own infufficiency, is over
thrown, and a great nation have made
themselves free—to detelt their cause, and
wish success tb their enemies, can be the
cffedl of a bad heart only; or, to use the
words of a judicious writer, as applied to
one person, " his anger is not the emo
tion of a great and good mind : It is that
of Miltdn's fiend, contemplating the -in
nocence of our firfl parents, and the pofii
ble happiness of their race.''—A conlide
ration of the charadlers of those who are
opposed to the French revolution, will
oftentimes confirm this afiertion, In con
sidering this party, I will speak freely ;
Truth is fufficient for their enemies, and
exaggeration need not now be made use of
by the moll malignant. Mine is the cause
of liberty, and I am not afraid to avow
or fuppoit my opinions.
Though America was in general violent,
ly opposed* to Great-Britain in the lafl
war, yet there was a confider'able number
among us who espoused their cause, aflifted
them, and not a few who took up arms
agaiafl their countrymen. Many of these
men, after the war was finifhed, returned
among us. An ill-judged policy has lince
overlooked their behaviour, and some have
appeared in several offices of state. But
can it befuppofed that they have changed
"their principles? If they have not, are
they fit to rule freemen ? If they have, I
should flill be unwilling to trufl them.
There are converts in religion, but none
in politics. It hiay perhaps be urged in
their favour, that the knowledge of their
■own hearts has convinced them of the ne
cefiity of slavery, and a despotic power
is the one which is worthy of their am
bition ; for in that only, can they exercise
their favourite virtues. I accept the ex
"Cufe, and trace a connexion with their
whole condudl, After having attempted
to deflroy the liberties of their country,
it may easily be supposed that they are not
willing that others should be free Habit
alone would be fufficient; and the ill suc
cess of their faveurite Britain, which not
even her depredations on the Americans
can eompenfate—adds to their anger. Un
able to feel, or unwilling to confefs, the
generality which has signalized the French
nation flill more than their bravery, which
lias made them the terror of the armies
of Europe j t,hey dwell with peculiar plea-
Jure upon cxceffes, which fall far fhott ol
retribution. As if they could expect, that
injuries should be forgiven, because the
offended were at that time unable to re
Tent them ; or insults fuffered
without chaflifement.
A late addition has completed the edi
sice, consecrated to despotism, in which
pride and paflion are the high priefls, and
virtue and good sense the fa'crifices.
Ihe present obje& i 3 important. If
Americans can be taugkt to approve tlit
efforts of despotism, and despise the ftrug
g!es of liberty, they will f!>on be fit for
the yoke themselves. Exaggeration has
been frequently made use of, to raise the
pity of weak minds ; and in several instan
ces, the vanity of a man has been called
forth to harangue a croud, and to condes
cend to become the organ of mifreptefen
tation and calumny, whose pride will not
fuffer him to afiociate with his equals. But
the credit of the court, of which these men
are the true and loyal fubjedts, needs now
all their ingenuity for support. The ruin
of the British empire, by its immense
debt and the cofruption of its government,
was before inevitable ; by the ill policy of
their ministry, it is now accelerated. The
awful period rapidly approaches, and the
lall efforts of Britain are spent, not in en
deavouring to regain their former prospe
rity, but in attempting to drag another
nation, along with herfelf, to deflru&ion.
PHILADELPHIA.
A Correspondent, upon reading the
narratives of the various actions between
the armies of France and the combined
powers, cannot avoid making the reflec
tion, that man, where free, is equal toman
on every part or point of the globe. The
prejudice is now wearing off rapidly, that
one Englishman is equal to three French
in prowess; and we, in America, from
pa.pable demouftration" are convinced
of the fallhood of that assertion ; and are
rather inclined to believe that the present
cviancipated spirit of the French has ren
dered every individual of the nation at
leafl equal to any three of the slaves of
despotism from any part of Europe. From
those horrors of blood and death, dffplayed
on the stage of human action at the present
period, one would be inclined to aflc, Are
not mankind still in a state of political
childhood ; and might not the records of
the present and the pad ages of the world
be jultly denominated by a more enlight
ened posterity, " The HISTORY of the
BIG BOYS !" All this seeming puerility
of conduct, however, may be deduced from
that unnatural, predominant, form of go
vernment, called Monarchy. As long as
the bulk of mankind are content to look
upon any individual of their species as an
abfolllte, hereditary mafler, and hold their
lives ana'property at his disposal, so long
will they be bale and contemptible, and
liable to be let on, like blood-hounds, to
dellroy and massacre their fellow men, for
the benefit of a few, who, while noting in
luxury, and gluttonizing on the blood,°are
perhaps laughing at the miseries of their
ddilded/uijefls —America! come the day,
when your benign example (hall convince
Europe, that all wars are merely the work
of jcfuitical policy, and that every na
tional queltion of dispute may be more
rationally as well as effectually decided by
the amicable method of pacific negocia
tion. We, of the present day, live at a
period when the strong holds of despotism
are breaking up ; when nations just begin
Jo discover that all human government
should be aclminiflered by the servants,
and not by the " ma/lers" of the people!
Let us improve upon the hint, and let
every individual be solicitous to contribute
his mite to the general emancipation of
his fpecics, at this very interelling period,
U U J\ ln the dawning of these mighty
times
IVhofe scents an paintedfor eternity ;
Difentions, that /hall, fioell the trump of
fame,
And rum brooding o'er all monarchy J"
[From New - Tork t Sept. 6.]
" I was yeflerday on board of the Con
cord, and thi Jupiter, the latter now com
manded by Capt. Bompard, who has near
ly 600 men on board, and exnedts in about
eight days to be ready for any service—
He »ook with him, 3 10 of his old crew ;
he has ico of the Jupiter's former handt,
he has received 100 from the Concord
vefterday, and 60 from the Normande.
Two of his former lieutenants arepromot-
Ed, viz. Lieutenant Byeman, to command
'lie Liverpool, letter of marque, mounting
16 guns, captured lad Saturday, and fentin
here- and Lieutenant Connel, to command
th« little Cornelia.
ExtraS of a tetter from New-Providence,
dated tstb Augufl, 1793.
" I am in this place, and arrived here
the gth ind. being taken by a cruiser from
this port. I,am surprized that the mer
chants of the United States or our govern
ment, has not sent out l'oine power or othei
to protest the propeity belonging to the
citizens of the United States, for it 13
going to wreck every day ; and we poor
devils are lodged in the hands of a parcel
of ravenous wolves, not knowing who to
trull here; but was there a eommiffioned man
sent here to protedl us on* our arrival, so
that we might be acquainted with the
conduct of these people, it would be much
better ; as it is impossible for one vedel to
escape these wolves, as I said before, for
they have orders to feud all in under sus
picion."
Extraß of a Utterfrom /Intigua, Aug. 6.
" We hear from good authority that a
fleet is very fliortly to fail from Fort-Rov
al, Martinique, confiding of 18 or 20 fail
of very fine (hips, under convoy of the
Felicity frigate. They are to be joined
by 2 (hips, letters of marque, from Gua
daloupe, of 30 guns each. The Felicity
would be, if taken, one of the richelt prizes
that ever failed from the Wed-lildies, hav
ing on board all the plate and money that
could be colle&ed, belonging to the royal
ids; they chufe the hurricane months for
failing, taking it for granted that all the
Englidi frigates v/ill be in port. They
are likewise fitting out there numbers of
privateers, even open row boats, with 4
swivels to go among the southern islands.
Several velfels belonging to Barbadoes and
Grenada have been taken, besides a brig
from Halifax, that touched at Barbadoes
and failed for St.. Vincents."
Extras from General Cvflint's letter to tht
National Convention, dated 30 th of June.
"We have just learnt, that 12,00 c
Ruffians have been embarked from Pet erf
burgh. 1 his completes the coalition ol
the tyrants of Europe; but these hardy
foldkrs shall not terrify the Republic.
Our success will be certain; for liberty
will make 11s triumph over our enemies,
if the choice of the nation falls on men
of talents ; if intrigues ate baniflled from
yotir councils, and if a war minider ol
talents and judgment is chosen, who is able
to direst the plans of the generals, and tc
make them refpefted and executed.
'" The new constitution ought to be the
admiration as well as the dread of our ene
mies ; but the Republic mud have mini
ders of integrity and talents, and coufe
quently very different from those we have
already seen. Then will the French Re
public dand on a solid balis, and plant
with glory the triumphant Tree of Li
berty."
Several English papers mention, thai
Gen. Dumourier may be speedily expe&ed
in America—[They probably mean in
Nova-Scotia, or in one or otber of the Ca
nada's.]]
Baltimore, Sept. I. The intelligence
from France is better and better the con
vention after having finilhed the Conditu
tion, which was approved and accepted by
the people, adjourned to the month ol
November, submitting the execution ol
the laws, and the management of thewai
to the direction of the executive.
Ui all the parties engaged in theprefent
war, the empress of Rufiia has the mod tc
hope and the leail to fear. If any thing
is to be paid for the conted, she has few
merchants to fuffcrand no territories that
can be seized ; if any thing is obtained,
die will have a share of the prize, or will
find, what is better, a pretence for another
war ; and, jf all parties recede from it
with loss, the is dill a gainer.
WANTED,
IN TWO OR THREE MONTHS,
AN APPRENTICE
REGULAR '^APOTHECARY.
A \ outh nor/less than fifteen or iixteen
>ears with a (uitable education, an J
good moral character.—l' or further parti
culars enqune ol tiie Editor, savvtf
TO THfi PUBLIC.
AS an attachment at the suit of Sam
uel Imlay and Nathaniel Imlay, executors
of the testament and last will of Peter Imlay, de
ceased, has i/lued out of the Supreme Court of
Judicature of the /l ate of New-Jersey, against tfie
lands of Garret Voorheis, late of the county of
Middlefsx, and state afc-refaid, returnable to the
firlt fuefday in September, seventeen hundred
and ninety-two —Notice is hereby given to the
said Garret Voorheis, that unless he appearand
file fpccial bail to the said altion, judgment
will be entered against him, by default, and the
lands so attached fold for the fatisfaftion of fuel*
at his creditors as /hail appear to be juftiy entitled
to any demand thereon, and fiiall apply for that
purpose, according to the form of the statute in
such cafe made and provided.
By order of the Court,
April 17. iaw. jy HOWELL, Clk.
JUST prjBLISHE D, *
Ant! to be foid by Thomas Dobson, Wil- u
ham Young, Robert Campbell,
Meilrs. Rice and Go. and John M 4
Culloch, No. i, North Third-ftreer,
examination of the late pro
ceilings in Congress refpefting the
official conduct of the Secretary of the
Treafbry; with Observations, &c. oa the
application of loans from Holland, negoti
ated under the acts of the 4th and 12 th «f
Augult 1790. —The price of the above
pamphlet is three sixteenths of a dollar, or
is 4d. 1-2. April 24. 2aw tf
*** The author requests his readers tp
correct the fallowing ERRATA in the
pamphlet above mentioned Page j.
line 1 1 -2d. paragraph, for Coalition read
CollifioH. -Page 25. line 11—2 d. parag.
inltead of Butilc diretlon read "Stock
holders."
WARRANTED
Boulting-Clotbs £s° Mill-Jlones,
For sale at No, 437 NorthSecond-ftreet, by
OLIVER EVANS,
Who hath viewed the Cloths and Stone* In a
great many of the best mills in different parts
of America, and procured samples of the cloth?,
with an account how they proved, and collected
the opinion and judgment of many of the moll
experienced millers refpedting the quality of clotha
and stone for the different purposes : therefore, If
they do not prove good, and suitable for the pur
poses for which he fells them, they will be re
ceived again, others delivered in their stead, and
the colts of carriage paid. Drafts of the belt and
simplest plans for boulting, and best and simplest
conftrudtions of mills now in use, will be /hewed
to the purchasers, if required.
Augult 17. ja, w. t. f.
Seat of War.
FOR SALE
At M. Carey's Store, 118, Mar
ket-street.
A SHEET MAP
Of the French, Aiiftrian and Dutch Ne
therlands,
In which the progress of the present War
mty be traced.
Price three eighths of a Dollar.
And /MAP of the
Three-Northern Diftri&s of France, di
rtded into Departments—Price
one fourth of a Dollar.
Maps of the United States :
ANY public-spirited gentlemen, poflefled with
materials for correcting and improving the
maps of the several states, will lay M. Carey
under very particular obligations, by communi
cating them. He is in immediate want of some
for New-Jersey and Delaware 5 of which states,
he is now preparing maps.
Guthrie's Geography:
THE subscript.'on for this work will be conti
nued open, at the present rate of twelve dollars,
till the firft day of November next 5 after which
it will be raised to fourteen dollars.
August 10.
At Private Sale,
To be fold a LOT of LAND,
IN TredyfFi in townfliip, Chester county, diftanC
from Philadelphia about j'B mile*,, and from
Lancaster road about 3»4th», containing TWEN
TY-FIVE ACRES. Of this lot about S
acres onl) are cleared—the reft is woodland, con
sisting chiefly of young Chefnut Timber.There are
on the premiies a Log Dwelling House,
Shop, a double Log Barn, a young Bearing Or
chard of 50 Trees, about 3 acres of watered
Meadow, a good Spring, and a never-failing
Stream of Water, running from a spout near the
door. its situation and the great advan
tage of raifing,the water, it is thought to be an
eligible place for a Distiller, Tanner, Currier or
Malfter. tor terms apply near the premises to
MORDECAI MOORE.
September 3, 1793. iaw3w
PRINTED BY
C HIL D S and SWAINE.
at THSik.rricx I*o*lo9, mcH-si(itT|
»«AI rifTH-ITHIII,