Numb. 35 of Vol. ll.] WEDNE SDA Y, February 27, 1793.
Report of the Secretary of the Treasury,
relative to the Loans negotiated ui:der
the acts of the 4th and 12th of August,
179<3-
[Continued from our laji.}
AN enquiry naturally arises here—Were
the monies which were drawn from
Europe on account of the foreign loans,
the instrument of the purchases, to which
these beneficial effefls are ascribed ?
I answer, that these purchases arc to be
attributed to the ihftrumentality of that
fund—that had it not been for this re
foiu-ce they could not have been made at
tiie early periods, when most of them
were made. The cnurfe of the tranfacTi-i
on wili be fully and with more propriety
explained in another place.
An attention to both objects—to the re
imbursements to France, and to the pur
chases f the debt, rendered expedient a
fiibdiviiion even of the firft loan. Conli
derations of the moment seconded those of
a general nature, to induce an immediate
payment to that country—The loan had
been undertaken without previous autho
rity from hence, with a view to such pay
ment. This was known and a correfpon
deut expectation excited. The immedi
ate situation of the French finanses, ren
dered a payment at the particular juncture
more than ordinarily interesting. 111 such
a (late of things, there could be no hesita
tion, about applying a large part of the
loan to that object. Anotherpart of it wai
of necessity applied to the payment of the
sums, that were falling due on the Dutch
loans. And it Is presumed, that the rea
sons which have been afligned, will ap
pear to have been fufficiently powerful to
have dictated the drawing of a part of it
to the United States.
Accordingly, a million and a halt of the
three millions borrowed, were appropri
ated to France ; something mare than
Soo v coo guilders were drawn syr here,
Aad't'ii- remainder of tSeifca3"wk to
be dilbarfed in Holland. j
' It shall not be concealed, though 1 am
aware that the acknowledgment may be a
fubieft of criticism, that the condua which
was nurfued, both with regard to this and
to the fncceedi'ng loan, was in fomed egree
influenced by a collateral confutation.
The government had but jlift adopted a
plan tor the reftorationof public credit. The
periodical payment ofintereft was to com
mence on the Ift of April 1791. A con
siderable part of the revenue out of which
the monies were to arise, was only to be
ein to accrue on the firft of January pre
ceding This revenue was liable to cre
dits of four, fix, and twelve months.
How far its eventual product would an
swer expectation—how far the punctuali
ty of payments could be relied upon, were
point* unascertained, and which required
to their ascertainment much more expe
rience than had been obtained. In such
situation it was not only natural, but ne
cefiary for an administrator of the finances
to doubt—and doubting it was his duty to
call to the aid of the public credit, every
auxiliary, which it was in his power to
command —He was bound to reflect, that
a failure in any stipulated payment would
be fatal to the dawning credit of the coun
try—to the reputation of the government,
iuft beginning to rife. That a wound in
flitted upon either, at so early a stage, un
der all the circumstances ot opposition to
the constitution, which had exilled in the
community, would have been deep.y felt,
and might either not have admitted of a
cure at ailornot till after * length of time,
and a series of mifchiefs—that it could
rjot but be an important service rendered
o the country, to ward off so great a mif
fortune, by the temporary life of any ex
traordinary resource, which might be at
hand, till time was given for more effectu
al provHion.
If iri the course of such reflections, a
, doubt had occurred, about the stria regu
larity of what was contemplated, asipof
fible resort, a mind fufficiently alive to the
public interest and fufficiently firm in the
purfuitofit, would have dismissed thai
doubt, as an obstacle, suggested by a pu
sillanimous caution, to the exeicife 01
those higher motives, which ought evei
to govern a man, inverted with a great
public trust. It would have occurred thai
there was reasonable ground to rely, thai
the necessity of the cafe, and the magni
tude of the occasion, would irifure a juf
tification, and that if the contrary Ihould
happen, there remained still the consola
tion of having facrificed personal interest
and tranquility, no matter to what extent,
By P. FR.ENEAU: Published, Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
to an important public interest, and of ha
ving avoided the humiliation, which would
have been jultly due to an opposite, and to
a feeble conduit.
The disposition which was resolved upo 11
with regard to the tirft loan, involved ne
cefl'arily a decilion of the point, that the
loans might be placed on the joint foun
dation of both a£ts. That loan having
been undertaken, as already mentioned,
without previous authority, and conse
quently without a particular eye to either
act, it was probable, that it would be
found too late to make an apportionment
of one part of the sum borrowed to one
ait, of another part to the other act. In
that cafe, the distributive application of
the fund to the d'.ffereiit objects was to be
relinquished or the pofiibility was to be ad
mitted, of the loan being left to stand up
on the authority of both acts. The fame
disposition of the firlt loan, will also illus
trate the convenience and expediency ot
the plan which was finally adopted, that is,
of placing the loans on the bafls of both
acts.
The idea of a concurrent execution
of both the objects to which the loans
were deHined, could not conveniently
have been pursued, upon the plan of a se
paration of the loans ; which to be effec
tual, would include the' drift application
of the proceeds of each to tile purposes o:
the particular ast, upon which it was
founded.
Amsterdam was naturally looked to, a?
the great scene of the intended loans.t-
There, as everywhere else, there is but a
certain quantity of money floating in the
market from time to time, beyond tht
neceflary demands of trade and industry,
Peeking for employment in loaps. Thi
quantity, of course, varies at different peri
ods, from a variety of causes. Of the
quantity at any time afloat, but a certwi:
borrowing power ; owing to the compe
tition of other borrowers, who have each
their connexions through their bankers,
with different fetsof undertakers "and mo
ney lenders. Nor is it always that conii
derable loans can be had at any rate. —
There are certain feufons only, when
they are practicable.
To have brought two loans upon the
market at one time, as an opportunity of
borrowing offered, which must have been
the cafe in order to make concurrent
provision for both the objects in question,
if the principle of a separation of the loan;
had been adopted, would have been to
exhibit to the money lenders a very unu
sual appearance. With men known to be
much influenced by precedent and habit,
such an apppearance could not have failed
to prove a i'ource of speculation aud con
jecture ; and might have led to a confu
fed idea that the wants of the United
States were excefiive ; a supposition, by
no m?ans calculated to promote their cre
dit. It would moreover have been a de
parture from that simplicity of procedure,
which,where numbers are concerned,is al
ways of moment to a right conception of
the bulinefa to beaccomplifhed., and ought
not to be abandoned, but for reasons of
real utility and weight.
To have instituted the loans fucceffive
ly,founding each,upon one or other of the
acts, would have had a tendency to occ.l
- longer intervals between thepaymenti
to France, than was desirable. 'The in
tervention of a loan for the purpose of
purchases, would have created of course a
very coniiderable chasm. It may be ob
jected that such chasms did happen on the
plan which'was pursued. This is true in
two instances ; but the molt material of
the two proceeded from cafualties'foreign
to the plan vtfelf ; which are detailed in
the correspondence more than once allu
ded to.
It ispolfibletoo that a separation of the
loans might have rendered it less easy to
take advantage of a state of the market,
favourable to their extension at a particu
lar juncture. The loan to be brought or
the market might relate to the purdiafe ol
the debt . The moment might be favour
able to a more coniiderable loan, than wa:
within the limits prescribed for that object,
and the opportunity might flip before' t
feeond could be inftitu ed. Iu this busi
ness moments are often of importance,
and are to be embraced with promptitude
and dexterity.
Thus it appeal s, that in different way:
the negociation of the loans might have
been embarralTed by their separation.
But the mod obvious, if not the molt ferU
ous of the inconveniencies which would
have attended it, refpe£ts th? application of
the sums borrowed- This could not then
have been moulded, as the interelt or po
licy of the government might dictate, A
loan for the purchase ps the debt might
iMve been made under profpeits, proini
ulig a ready and berieficial inveltmenc of
it r but befof-e the ihvefhnent was made,
:■ change of the market might render'it
ineligible—involving the alternative, ei-
Cher of a difadvantajjeous investment, or
of leaving perhaps a large film of money
a long time unemployed. Such a ltate of
things might have produced to the banks
an advantage, and to the government a
a loss, of magnitude fufficient to give co
lour to a fiirmife, that the public in
terelt had been facrificed to the profit of
thole inltitutions. The contrary course
has eflentialfy avoided that evil; which in
this and in Other instances, would have
been incident in a far greater degree, to
the modes of proceedings, contralted with
ihofe that have been puvfued ,'t!ian has in
reality attended them.
Or political conliderations might have
rendered it advifeable to transfer the ap
plication of the fund from one obje£t to
*he other.
' Of this, the cafe of St. Domingo presents
[11 example. It might have happened on
i>e plan of fepsfrate loans, that there was
,;o tond in hand but for the purchase ut
he debt* Then On the principle of that
)ian, there would have been uo fund, in
;!ie disposition of the executive, applicable
'.o the other object, which would have em
jarrafled the performance of a duty to
wards a friendly power, ana ift a way
which included the positive advantage to
kiie country of paying direitly a part of its
foreign debt, in its own productions.
Such were the embarraifments avoided,
.. ,«! (wrh the conveniences secured, by the
.nT.-.y"!' ■■ ■' ff'v' 1, ,
upon the authority of both acts.
In the opposite plan, I can discern no
counterbalancing advantage nor conveni
ence.
Consequently, if both are equally legal,
there can be no doubt which of them
ought to have been preferred.
[To be Continued.]
To the EDITOR of the NATIONAL
GAZETTE.
SIR,
XT is incumbent on every one who re
gards the interelt aiid happiness of his
country, to take notice of every flioal and
rock that have proved fatal to other re
publics, and endeavour to guard against,
the like mischance in this happy land. Un
pleasant as the tall', is, to publicly censure
the conduct of any of my fellow citizens,
yet as the public welfare, in my opinion,
is involved ; I conceive that silence would
be criminal The measure 1 alkide to,
was the celebrating the birth day of the
President of the United States, by a part of
the city militia. It appears by the condutt
of fonie men, that we are only republicans
in name and not in principle. Kor sure
ly the cultoms and manners emanating
from, and congenialXvith, monarchy, mult
be incongruous in a rep'iiblic. Who will
deny, that the celebrating of birth days is
not a striking feature of royalty ? We hear
of no such thing during the republic of
Rome. Evert Cincinnatus, now conlign
ed to immortal fame, received no adulati
on of this kind. I am as fertfible of the
services of the President as any man, and
think him worthy of the high regard of his
country. But surely the office he enjoys is
a fufficient tMtimony of the people's f*-
vour, without \vorlhipp<ng him likewise.
I believe, 1 may venture to fay, thstt such
fiilfome adulation does not accord Xvith
his feelings'.
If this evil was of no greater extent,
than merely debasing thole who are in
the practice of it, I fllould not feel much
concern. But when I conlider it a fore
runner of other monarchical vices, and
holding up an improper example in this
country, and an example at precedent, I
cannot but execrate the measure. I api
well aware that courtiers, and all the sy
cophantic tribe, will endeavour to take off
the force of these remarks, and others of a
(imilar nature, that nave been lately made
by some' republican writers, by bawling
out fa£tion, fedition&c. I trull, however
for the honour of my cenntry. that such
characters are riot, as yet, numerous hare.
[Total No. 139.],
The/ are therefore of no consequence.
But there are others, who fee and judge
only through the falfe medium ot pafioii'
ar prejudice, that may not relilh theft opi
nions. To them I' would ju3 oijferver
that the novelty ot* any doctrine ought not,'
to be an argument against It—nor Ihould it*
be condemned without a fair aftd difpafli
onate crimination. I appeal thefi to the
joodfenfe of my countrymen; whether, by
placing one man above all equality a«d
heaping honours upon hrm, it does not, iu
the fame proportion, lefleu the eOnfe--'
quence of every other person : And, whe
ther this is not (owing the feeds
lions and inequality which will indubita-
Sly produce a change in cur government L/
It is true, that during the administrati
on of the present chief magittrace, these
predictions may not be realized,. 11 His 4'uc
cefl'er however may be a different chai*ac- 1
:er. He may poflefs immoderate ambition
md a riefire of dominion. Dazzled with
he splendour cf his flation, and puffed
with tlie homage that a misguided people'
lave annexedto that expefr
ather marks of adularioji besides' celebra
ting his birth day, attending his levess&f.
And his courtiers and sycophants,'" (far
there will be always filch aniinals) wil!
conspire with him to produce them.—
His person mull be made
placed above all law.' Thus by decrees, 4
equality, 'the great foundation of oils
liberties, will'be uatlenoitted ■ The pea-»
pie, having unfortunately fufjered ha-'
bits of fertility to-gain Urength among
them; and their minds being-qf
corrupted, will not' fe& their danger un-'
till it is too late to' be remedied. Whoe
ver doubts these affertiom—let him recur
to history for their'truth. He will there
find; that the making oneperfon more than'
man, evidently degraded others—that this
diftinQion produced correfpondi'ng princi*
pies and the one haad, a de
*' 2 : U<yAw«;<ie •>*
of the liberties of his country ; 'on the n -
ther. a servile obecliertce to his wil'
pleasure.' Nor can we flatter 'oiirtylve#
into a belief, that the (ante causes will not
prod uce like effects in all ages' And coun-"
tries. " Happy are they whom other peo
ples' misfortunes learn to be wife."
VALERIUS.
Feb. 25- 1793- * ' 1
Extracts from London papers to Jan. ti —
(received by the January Packet.)
LONDON, Dec. 29.
Letters from the Lower Rhine mention
the decisive advantage said to- have been*
gained over the French army tinder Gene
ral Cuftine, to be premature. There ap
pear only to have been force serious ren
counters between the posts; The Prpfliait
troops, under the king of Brufiia and the 1
duke of Brunfwick, marched *agarcft the?
French encamped on the heights of Efch."
They trofled -the ftreit, and (trove them
from Swalbach, VJafladten, and Kemem,
as far as Wilbaberr. The action was bloo
dy, and the duke of Brunfwick's son was
wounded in two but not denge
rolifly. ' ' 1 ' ; . . • .
Yesterday, in consequence of the recor
der's report, several criminals confined in
Newgate, were brought otit for execution by
order of his majeftv, among others, Tho
ilias Folkes, for robbing William Dunn o;i
the highway "of two pence halfpenny—
Henry Wild, for robbing William Bufli 011
the highway of a canvals bag, containing
18 guineas aud an half, and John Caftle
dine for' dealing five guineas and a silver
watch,'were ordered to be tranfpprted, the
former for life, the latter for seven years.
JanuaY.y 4. Private letters from Pari*
give us strong aiiiirances that 'the public
mind ft'changing -fact on the subject of the 1
king of France's trial, and that there was
every reafoii to hope that the moderate
party would be able to his lite. - Par
ties are coming in from all quarters i;i
preserve peacfe against a intnlber of anar
chifts,\vhofe views extendfo far as,by ex
citing the' execution of "Louis, to ailill in
restoring a monarchical government.
Neve* wa\ money (b fcarceln London,
as at the present time.' Thisis octafioned
by the profpetl of a war with I'r.lfice—Mi*
niflerial papers fay, that our 'government
has refilled to hold any fconfeVenccwifli
M. CliauveliiT, tlie-French ambaflador—it
this be true,'a War with the rejvuWVc is in
evitable."'Kye'ry public 'niesfure, indeed,
r "sUis to annt)unci that we ale on tire «\«
»f aV.ar : within a very feu days contrails
t> a" v large-arncjunt have beenfor transports an J all kinds of rav.il and
military cores—i (inall fquadcpn h.jve al
ready led fro.a the to
the o reward, fuppoi-.-d, for the river
Set: 'dt: we arc alf.lredj- the Dutch are
l'C! >:v .! not to *tive up their right tatlie
e::. lu'ive na- ;a, .tio'i qf the Schejdi.
'Ju ary ' T'« ' .hiiders flpop of .war
is arrived at FpWey fi{hm aitrune- Bejng
off Brel a fe-v d iys before, aad (landing in
to m k j th r bfervntiosm.tbey were fired
i p :>y three batteries. Oily one shot,
\ ever, (truck the veflel, which did no
damage except fpiittin» to pieces a carri
511a. Three- fiiil of. the line and five
irignces .were ieen in Breit Harbour, ready
for sea.
FRENCH AFFAIRS.
PAR I ■>, Dec 27.
Yc-fterday morning*at 9 o'clock, the 1111-
fortun ite Loi.'.s was brought to the bar of
the Natio;; 1 convention, accompanied by
tile Mayor «>' Pari.-, and several others—Be
in; required by the i-refident to make his
ulrim ue defence, he answered, that "his
defence wouid he read to them by hi coun
fei"—M. de Seze, his'counfel, then began,
and continued reading bis defence for fe
ver ll h«> irs, of which the following is an
abftraft :
" Citi zen Reprefeut.itives of the Nation,
the mom mi t is then arrived, in which Lou
is, accnfed in the name of the French peo
ple, and rtirrounded by the Counsel which
hum uiity and tile /aw have given, him, is
about to deliver hisjufthication. Even the
fii: nee with Which we arc surrounded, in
form. me, that the day of justice has fuc
c reded to tile day of presumption and pre
jndyiient. The mi. fortunes of kings have
fomctuing much more affecting and more
sacred than those of other men ; and he
who once occupied the mod brilliant
throne in the uaiverfe. ought to excite the
mo:' powerful inter, its. ion have called
him into the midlt of you, and he is come,
with calrimefs, with dignity, strong in his
innocence, supported by the cefliuiony of
a whole life. He has discovered to you
such to be his thoughts, by difcuiing, with
out preparation, without examination,
charges which he could not forefee,and of
fering an ext<finporary defence. Louis
could onlv tell you of his innocence ; I
come to prove it. Would that this circle
could increafi? till the whole multitude of
citizens, who have received a dreadful im
preliiou r.g'.iu.l him, could be contained in
it, that they might form i different opin
io 1. Louis kna-.v; that Europe expects,
with impatience, the judgment which yon
(hall give ; he knows, that poilerity will,
one t' Iy, invefligr.te it ; blithe conliders
oily his contemporaries. Like him, we
forget posterity, and fee only the present
moi.ic-Jt/'
M. de Seze then said, that the question
wight he conlidered in two points of view,
eitrier with res;. -ft to Louis before or af
ter hi • acccptance of the conftitutioh. The
nation, he admitted, was the Sovereign,
;:nd was free to give itfelf what form of
government t plc-afed ; but the nation it
felf could not e.v rcife its own sovereignty,
an<| mull, therefore, delegate it. In x 789
the n tio l chose a ilionarohic'al government,
a id decreed the inviolability of its chief-
He theji Ihewcd, that the forfeiture of the
throne was the only punishment to which
the king, according to the constitution,
could be subject ; ; nd that it was only for
crimes committed alter this deilitution,
that he could be tried, like other citizens.
Either the crime.", of which Louis was ac
cused, were .held crimes by the constitu
tional act. -'.nd of course, if proved, were
to be pondh'ed according to th,.t ast, or
1 hoy were not to be found in it; and were,
therefore, not to be punillied at all.
He* would, however, admit, for argu
ment fake, that ;he crimes were all prov
ed, and all mentioned in the conditutional
act. What then was thepunifhment? The
i'. idicruion of the throne. But it might be
fnd, that the nation had already abolilhcd
the throne, so that there was no further
pi liihment of L"ui< : were new laws to be
;.i ide, nplic hie only to one man, and
forme ! n.ue the accvfation itfelf ?
If, 110 vev<>r,Louis was to be deprived of
hi s inviol ibility as a king, he mall then, of
course, have the right of being judged like
a ci;iand, i.i that cafe, where were
the pre:' rv.it >ry forms of trial decreed for
c;i .c-.i rr the law? Where were the ju
rors. those ho'iges for the lives and honor
of citizens ? Where was the proportion of
fu'rrages which the law had so wifely e
iidbii J ? .Where that lilent ballot which
iiiclofed within the fame urn, the opinion
and co.ifci .-ice of the judge? '• I (peak to
you," said M. de Seze, " with the freedom
of a free man ; I search among you for
judges, and I fee only accusers ; you would
ujve judgment upon Louis, and you have
accused h 11 ; yon would'tryhim, and you
have already e .preifedyour will.
" As to the c' I'ce of having widied to
difiblve tiiii lot:on:il Allembly. Was it
forgotten that Louis had convoked it?
Wa; it forgo : 1 t.'iat dun !;; 150 years,
Princes, more jealous of.their authority,
ha'd coniiant'y rcinicd t :.tt convocation ?
Was it taat i»-t for Louis —but
for the numerous facrinces to which he
had coiifented, the audience could not
then be fitting to deliberate upon the inte
relts ot' the State ?"
He would not then (peak of the Mpmoir
in whie Talon was faiti to have the care
of p i'iid i: dug a counter re volution iutiufted
i.i jjart to him ; but even upon an ordina
ry trul, could it be permitted, that paper
taken from a citizen, without an invento
ry and unsealed, by the invaiion of in,
houfs, (hould be produced in the evidence
agaiuft him ? In some of thefep ipers men
tion was made of money which had beer
expended ; but even i it had been cleniet
that this expence was for purposes of be
nevoleiice, could it be forgotten how ealil;
kings were circumvented and deceived :
The plan of a letteto La Fayette and Mi
rabeau was spoken of, but this. lettejJhi"-
nor been sent ; and as to the letter o;
thanks to Bouille, the Constituent Aiiem
bly itfelf !'ad voted thanks to that officer
But the words were still to be utterec
which would immediately overthrow the
whole series of accusation* —they wen
these : " Subsequent to all these circum
stances, Louis accepted the constitution
"J'he constitution was the pact of alliancf
between the people & the king—there wa:
no longer any contention—the past wa:
forgotten. Vv hat had been done subse
quent to this acceptance was now to be
examined.
" The constitution had not ordered the
guarantee of the king for the Minirtert ;
but, on the contrary had commanded tin
refponlibility of the m nilters for the king
and even if the constitution was forgotten
the king and his ministers conldnot be boti
accnfed for the fame aits. Louis had beci
accused of delaying the execution of tin
decree relative to Avignon—the minittei
Delettart had been accused of the fanit
thing. Louis had been accused of not
communicating intelligence of the treat;
of Piinitz ; but was not that the province
of the minister, even if it had been a pub'
Jic instead of a secret tranfiction ? He hat
been reproached with the troubles o:
Nimes, Jales, and other places ; but wa
the king to be answerable for all the trou
bles of a great revolution ? The accoun:
given by Narbonne was laid to the chargc
of Louis; but had not the National As
fembly itfelf declared, th .it Narbonne car
ried with him the regrets and the confi
deuce of the nation: 1 The surrender oi
Longwy and Verdun were imputed tc
him ; but were not the inhabitants of theft
places the guilty perlons ? And who hac
appointed the commander of Verdun, v. he
chose rather to die than to yield ?
Was it not Louis ?"
M. de Seze pursued his fpeecii witl
much perspicuity, contending and (hewing
that either Louis had no knowledge of thi
circumltanoes with which he w as char g d
or tliat they were not criminal ; or that in
could not be held refponlible for them ; 01
that, if refponlible, the putiifhment coult
not justly, or even lawfully be greater ilia;
the depolition.
With refpetf to the affair of the ioth o
August, he argued, that the king had mad<
no preparation for the defence of his owi
palace ; that tlie constitutional magiilrate
were with him, and that one of thole reae
the article of the law which authorized tin
cp;>ofition of force to force ; that whe:
he was invited to the Aflembly, he wen
there, and that the battle did not com
mence till an hour afterwards. It hac
been said by many deputies in the conven
tion, that tin y had allilled in producing the
events of that day : If then, they had beer
premeditated, how could Louis be accufei
of them? Louis, who had never given :
sanguinary order; who, at Varennes, chose
rather to return a captive than to expose
the life of one man ; who, on the 20th ol
June, refufed every fort of defence, ;.n<>
chose rather to remain alone in the midtl
ot his people?— Louis, of whom history
would be heard to fay, that during a reign
of twenty years he had borne only an ex
ample of manners, justice and oeconomy ?
who had abolilhed fervi.ude in his do
main) ; who, when the people wilhed so:
liberty, gave it to thejiy?
There was here fomo.snurnmr ; but the
counsel went through fevt ral other articles
of the acctifatory act, Wnich.it is lef, ma
terial to notice here, and admonilhed the
convention that history would judge their
judgment.
At the conclusion of the speech Louis
rof; and said, " Citizens, the means of my
defence have been just expofeel to you ; 1
hull not resume them. In fpeaknig- to
you. perhaps, for the last time, I declare
that my co science reproaches me with
nothing. My defenders have said only the
truth.
" My heart is torn when I perceive niy
ielf fufj>efted of having wished to died the
blood of the people, and especially ot being
the author of what patted 011 the ioth ot
August. I avow that the multiplied proofs
of my love for the people, seem to me fuf
firient to remove from me this charge, and
to prove, that I have not feared to expose
myfelf that blood might be saved."
After answering several qneftions rela
tive to some keys found at the Garde Meu
ble, of which lie declared ignorance, Louis
retired, with calnfnefs, only (bedding a few
tears—a decree was then instantly patted
that he (hpuld be reconducted to the Tem
ple—several other decrees were alio pasT
ed, relative to the defence by him
ft If anil counsel, etc.—the remainder of
this day's ciifcuiiion was very tunTuilucus,
owing .principally to the queftioh, Snail
tlii- king be tap.tally conviited or not ?—
ON Fr.davv Uetenibcr aß,a riote was lent
into the Convention iiy the jiii,.nier of tu
rcica affairs, from t..e kiltg of Spain, in
•which he authorizes his stiibaflador in
France to aiiiire the government that he
Ihall observe the ftrictelt neutrality, upon
condition that France withdraws the extra
ordinary forces flic has alfembled on the
frontiers adjoining to Spain, a,r.d leave:
there only the ulual ganifons—The fol
lowing is a copy of the firft declaration,
ligned by the duke of Alcudia, and dated
Madrid, December 16.
" The French government, having tef
tifiecl to that of Spain, a delire of leeing
that neutrality formally attefled, which in
fact prevails between the two nations ; his
Catholic maje.'ly has authorised the under
ligued, principal secretary of itate, to de
clare by this note—V That Spain will ob
serve on its lide, the ftrifleft neutrality in
the war in which France ii engaged with
other powers."
'• This note shall be exchanged at Paris
with another signed by the ininilter for fo
reign affairs, in which the fame aflurances
Ihall be given on the part of France."
Copy of the Jecond Declaration {signed as
before) dated December 17.
" The Catholic king, in consequence of
the neutrality agreed upon between Spain
and the French government, 011 an r.lut
rar.ee of the friendO'.ip and good faith of
the French nation, Ihall order the troops on
the frontiers to retire: retaining, in pla
ces of strength, the number neceflarv for
the service, and that of their refpetlive de
tachments, which shall be executed im
mediately after the Frenc+i have delivered
a declaration fitnilar to the prtfent, pro
filing to act 011 their part in the fame man
ner. Commifiioners shall be appointed by
both parties, to allill at the execution ot
'his agreement, at the period which may be
lixed, and all measures shall be taken with
! "mutual concert, acting with that good
taith which is proper.
'• This note, lignec! by the principal se
cretary of State of his 1110 ft Catholic ina
,jelly, Ihall be exchanged at Paris for ano
ther ligned by the minister for foreign af
fairs, in which the fame afliirances Ihall be
given on the part of France."
I \ A note was subjoined to these declarati
ons by the Spanish minister, requelling the
French minister to communicate the king
of Spain's intentions to the National Con
vention, which was accordingly done : a
number of general reflections were insert
ed, tending to exculpate Louis from the
criminal charges urged on his trial, and
n.owtrtgrfie neceflity of a magnafltmou:
conduct towards the late king, fuffering
him to choose an asylum for himielf and
family, &c. The alfembly ast rwards
.palled to the order of the day, and decreed
that " the executive council be informed
111 what quality Bourgoing, minister from
the republic to the court of Spain, is ac
knowledged by that court, in order that
he may be recalled, if not acknowledged
as Minister from the French Republic.''
For the National Gazette.
No IV.
OINCE my last, the inflructions given by
0 the Prelident to the Secretary of the
Treal'ury, and two laboured apologetic
performances of his, have made their ap
pearance. Matter thickens upon the pub
lic. Ihe frivolity with which the Secre
tary affetted to treat the fubjetf in hisfirft
letter, feeins to have fublided into fad and
forrowf'ul earnestness.
And there is in truth good reason for his
folicitudeand anxiety. That monarchical
adrruniirration, which he hath evidently a
dopted for the government of the United
Spates, is threatened by sundry portents.
The vanity of this pretended Atlas, has
certainly Simulated him into an arrogant
.idea, that the rights of the continent reli
ed solely on hiinfelf. For a consciousness
«t refponfibiiity only, could induce him to
wander into a laboured defence of the
laws ior making foreign loans; and into a
fnamelefs acknowledgment of having afi'u
med powers exclusively entrusted to the
Prefiaent.
Nor ought the indecency, with which
through seventeen pages of sophistry, he
compiles hard thought of motives for his
own direction and application of the loans,
with scarcely an alluiion to the personage
exclnlively entitled by law to direct and ap
ply, and without even the decorum of an
apology, to escape animadversion.
Several resolutions have pulled the House
of Representatives, requiring a plain ftate
inent of public funds. Of w hat do these
funds conlift ? Of dollars and cents. How
can dollars and cents be comprehensibly
exhibited?' By figures. In a month, three
Statements appear, confilljng chiefly of so-
arguments: the. firft exhibiting
I inger—the second vanity—and the third
>rolixity and confterr.ation.
But the public funds are left in a state of
perplexity almost inexplicable, whilst those
of his own mind are exhausted in elFeeling
this great defidcratum.
Every man w ill admit, that the Secreta
i"y pofffTeS penetration enougK to know
'hat the community can derive but little
information ftonj these laboured perfor
mances ; but the idea ought to quicken
the public invefligation, as it obviously ac
knowledges a concealment.
This new exercise of fifcal evolution,
does however sometimes pitfe it the Se
cretary in attitudes, exhibiting his real
purposes ; the only difficulty L, to catch
the pofi ion before he a flumes a new fi
gure. Let lis attempt to fin-mount it.
And that this Proteus may not flip out of
our hands, it is belt to resort to figures.
Dec. 1790. Total of jinking Ools. Cts.
fund in calh and bonds j ,374,456. 40
Ballance of money drawn
from Holland in 1 790, 91, fc
92, after deducting acini!
payments to St. Domingo &
loreigu officers 1,851,150.51
3,225,606.91
Dednff total laid out in the
linking fund to this time 957,770. 65
Ballance, surplus of the
finking'fund and iaflrumen
tality . 2,267,836.26
From these figures, extrafled from se
veral returns, and brought to a point, it
seems difficult to discern the necessity for
borrowing this inftrumeiitality, in aid of
tie Jinkingfund. Let us try it another
way.
I ot'al receipts in cadi of do
mestic funds from the begin
ning of the government to ja
-4.399.472.99
f otal expenditures, inclu
ding cafli paid on account of
the linking fund , 3,797,436.11
Ballance of cafli, beyond ex
penditures and excludinglaans
t0 1 79 2 " 602,036.86
And on July the ii>, 1791, the cafn on
hand beyond every difhurfement, from the
fame resource, dols. 54 cents.
et the Secretary drew above a million of
dollars, of this fame injlrumentality, from
Holland in 1790 and.9l*.
Once more we will strive to discover a
reaion for it, by enquiring how matters
flood at the end of the year 1792. The
Secretary (fates the ballaiice thus—
By excess oi income beyond
the actual difburfeir.ents of
the treasury to the end of the
year 1792 5,114,696. 50
This sum includes bonds, calh and loans.
Can this enormous accumulation of
funds be accounted for and diHipated, 1 v
the magvrs; to.ins " t:ijlnmentality a A
appropriation r"
I hits it appears that the revenue has
been continually accumulating from the
iingle resource of taxation.
At the end of 190, there
was a surplus in bonds and
ca "' 1,374,656. 40
At the end of 1791 of
At the end of 1 -92, inclu
ding 556,595 dols. 56 cent 3
of domeftif loans of 2,809,027. 37
And throughout this period ofconflaiit
accumulation, the Secretary has been as
conflantly drawing bills 011 Holland for
money borrowed there, to the amount,
including payments for interefl in Holland,
which is an indirect mode of drawing, of
above three million! of dollars, exchifive
of domestic loans.
The regular accumulation of our do.
mefiic resources flowed from two causes.
Firfl, from a surplus of revenue beyond
even the appropriations to the end of 1791,
of 952.765 dols. 93 cents. Secondly, from
furphjes of appropriations beyond the real
expenditure-
Hence, tho' this accumulation was mod
of it in bonds, yet as these were regularly
and monthly coming in during the follow
ing year, it constituted afur.dl'or anticipa
ting the annual revenue.
A confeioufnefs of this ir.riuccd the Se
cretary to invent the term. " inftrumcntal
ity," with the broad veil of which to cover
the enormous sum drawn from Holland
during the last two years. He had not
purchased public debt with it—and he
could not fi;:k it by anticipations. Accor
dingly he is obliged now to exhibit the mo
ney in the follow ing articles—.
Calh in tjie bank, but not iu Dols. Cts.
the treasury . 695,883. OS
Pawned to the bank of N.
America as a fccurity for
156,595 dols. 56 cents ' 1-7,998.60
Due for bills of exchar.re 614,593.02
For St. Domingo a; li fo
reign officers, of v ;.ich how-
ever only 453,618 dols. 62
cents iiave been paid 90
2,315,791. S<*
This view of figures deir,onltrat<rs, that
infiruwentality does net mean payment!
and yet it also demonflrates the neceffitv of
the word, "lie Secretary, knowing the
checks refultirg from the figures he has been
obliged to fcairer about from time totiifi"
in his llatemen;s anil reports, ,if collected
to a point, couid rot venture to iini
money by anticipations, or the help of the
linking fucd. If this linv. pi fiance p!t;r-get! hini into a dilemma, it has alio exhibi
ted his adroienefs in extricating himfelf, by
puzzling others.
O.'.e diking fact will illustrate the fyf
teni ot tr<e Secretary : a! the begi.: ling oi
this year, he had compiud the enorraou:
Ann of 5,114,696 dollars 50 cents, in bonds,
bills a.id cacti. A fuai more than fiiiQcien:
to defray the whole annual expenditure 02
the nation. A great loss of interelt muli
have resulted from this management ; foi
regular periodical loans have been maki
for more than two years, 111 order to col
lect this aggregate. Some of these iiave
been made 01' tlie banks, the depository oi
all the calli, thus conltantly collecting. At
allin>~ne):ts the banks have polltß'ed a
iargar Jan of public money than. hat!:
been burrowed of them, and at this mo
ment are reported to pofiels among
thejji tlie fijni-flf 1,339,327 dols. cents o!
aa: al cit?.', excluding 614,59.5 dols. 2 cents,
due for bills, of which the-banks have had
til? negotiation. And even at this moment
tire public are paying inter, it to the bank
of the United States 03 a loan of 400,00 c
dollars.
Is this ceconomy ? Is this honesty ? It is
neither ; and yet I confefs that it is injlru
mentality. It is a:i i dlrumentality by
which ail influence may be gained—it may
bo deposited in tlie banks, where thu' it is
a loiing ialrrumeiuality to the public, it
■will produce profit to llockholders—and it
may b? used as a balis for accommodations
to favorites, without any apparent inter
vention of the Secretary.
When did a nation, until now, accumu
late a film before-hand, moltly by bor
rowing, equivalent to the whole expendi
ture of the current year ?
But an event yet more extraordinary
hath occurred. Congref. have aflenied tc
a clause in a bill, permitting 800,000 dol
lars to be borrowed of the bank ot the U
nitedStates. The neceflity for this, is in
ferred from an argument so contemptible
as to exhibit a symptom of that mfirttmen
tality, which is to be deprecated.
For, the unfatislied appropriations o.
part times, are admitted as a debit again,
this accumulation of real revenue, altho
these appropriations were originally con
jectural, and in mofl inltances are provec
demonftrably to be a C:\ ing. But the bal
lancing rtal cajii by / leas only, is in ths
secretarial stile.
The monlirou3 absurdity of such mea
sures and arguments, mult give them aj:
enigmatical appearance. But the riddle i:
eafdyfolved. Bank directors and flock
holders are not fcatrered fparfnn in thele
"giflaturc. They cou.itenance-and fuppori
jnifapplicatVons of public money—.they im
pose taxes and-make loans to swell depo
fiw—theytain L* *i •*>..»*
appropriations, to gain a fhrplus ttiad t
the public, but alive to tiiemfelves—they
approve the featuring public monies, so a:
to obviate all poflibility ofdeteciing a misap
plication—and they support mif.inpropria
tions of public funds. And why? Becaufc
all these measures combine secretly, a:
well as avowedly, to in xeafe their private
funds at tile public expence.
Dilinterefted cjtizens, what do you ex
pea to gain, wir.lft you fulfer the whole
game to be played by men, who are unitec
by the (trong ties of common interelt anc
common depravity, the food tor which y r oi
mull furnilh. until rapacity itfelf isfati
ated ?
FRANKLIN.
Feb. 26, 1793-
for the Nation al Gazette.
Number 111.
To ALEXANDER HAMILTON, Secre
tary of the Treafiiry of t'ie United States.
T S it poflible to review the circumltance
Itatcd in my last letter, without rcllec
ting 0:1 the singular and extraordinary
'*!»cfacle ot a Secretary of the Treasury
fb'emnly called upon by the Reprelenta
tives of the people to report " inch a viev
of the public finances as would enabl
them to judge whether any farther taxes
or burthens, were necessary to be impofei
upon their coiiftituent:, —who, aftci sou
days reflection report* to them Jpecifual
ly all the items ot demand upon govern
jnent contrasted with a like view ot al
i-ts resources, at the fame time ferioufl
and deliberate!v . 11 ri ee them ' 4 that thenc
would refutt fubjlaniially the informatio:
jjefircd, as far a.; it was then in the powe
of the Secretary to give it "—concealing
nererthelefs, and "Withholding from tha
w report, cvety t elie 01 inlormation that re
late<i to the enc.rmous (uin of one millio
of dollars of the public money, which th
fame Secretary had in a Jecret and Wtau
thorized manner,drawn .over from Europe
and every Hailing of which he had receiv
ed in caih, before the 23d of January 179 a
the date of that report?
And if, Sir, in the ccurfe of these re
flections, it becomes difficult to divin
what were tiie Jtrong, cogent, and j'tfiifia
blic public inducene. its to a conducrfo ex
rraoiciinary, how does that difficulty in
crt-afe as we progrefj with you in this bufi
ness ? when we fee t:»4 fame Secretar
who had thus created an artificial necejjit
for farther tar.er, and burthens 01} the com
■numity, him/elf recomjpiemling -that■ those j e
farther taxes and burthens should be lifipo- I
fed—that the trade and commerce of this g
country lhould bear that additional bur- h
then—that instead of that burthen being t
m idc temporary arid, for one year only, as h
contemplated by the legiflaxure, one half c
of it should be made perpetual, and com- u
menf irate wish the exiflence of the public t
debt—that great and /eemingly (incere re
gret should be expreflt'd by the fame Se- c
cretary of 11 this ueceffity for so early a
resort to farther burthens on commerce'*; <
that at the Jame time and from the fame t
Secretary should be depending before the f
legiClature a proportion for further of- <
fumpiion of State debts—that the fame Se- i
cretary after the said 23d of January 1792. s
should renew and continue the secret anil 3
unauthorizcdb\\l\ncfo of bill drawing for c
another year, and to the amount of alio- t
ther million of dollars—that during the '
two years of this bill dravjing (pt'-Jinijs. '<•
i Congress were in feilion three times, and f
tyet the,great and comprehensive mind of ;
the Secretary should deem it of inferior c
confideratio.i to acquaint them with the '
progress of it, and even, as far as the pub- I
lie are hitherto informed, that the Prefi- ]
•dent himfelf should be unacquainted with I
the extent of the business—that this fame
business of billdrdwing should be covnmen- I
ced in express violation of the inflrutlion 1
of the President of the United States, and 1
moreover continued to the end of the
two years, as far as yet appears, without
any subsequent inftruftion of the President .
to juflify it.—That special appropriations ,
by lawihouldbe departed from afid difre- I
garded irj the use and disposition of this j
money, and thereby the Constitution of
the United States prostrated and trampled
upon, by a secondary executive officer of ,
the government: That the present feaion
of Congress should commence with infor- :
mation from the President of the completi- 1
on of two foreign loans, to the amount of '
fix millions offtorins, and an earned re- :
commendation to begin the salutary work j
of a redemption of the public debt,and yet,
Sir, you, whose especial duty it was to lay
before the legillatute, accompanying 1u- :
formation of the situation of the Foreign !
loans, of the fiate of the linking fund, and
of the aftnal condition of the public finan
ces, you. Sir, I fay, should refill: all the
powerful motives which could be supposed
to urge the performance of a duty so es
sential and indispensable, and withhold the
information : And fur:her, Sir, that du
ring the present feilion you should call up
oa the legislature to appropriate i,;oo,ooo
dollars for the current expenditure of the
vear 1793-' That you should ftibmit to
. their conlid.er3t:<m - o^aluGAh'.'
4o oc (ft. recomtne-rred
by che President) predicated 011 the idea of
immediate, direii, and permanent ta-ees
for a series of years, and of correspondent
&.cortimenfura:e public loans by way of an
ticipation of those taxes; Aud in the 1 feme
report recommend 10 the Legj fiat tire to
; make a loan of ttvo million! of dollars, to
re-imljurfe a debt from the public, of the
fameamount,to the bank of the U. Statea ;
■ and {till, Sir. pertir.acioufly withhold the
■ information I have mentioned.
! Invincible as was the lilence you obfer-
I ved, until the House of Reprefe natives by
I an express order drew the unwillingjecret
■ from you—what was your conduct on that
occasion ? On the third day of the last
month your firft report was made, which
you call a statement of the foreign loans,
the molt evasive, defective, and unHitisfac
tory that cui'ing could contrive, and in
which you carefully conceal from the pub
lic view ti.e date and amount of every pay
ment which was made either to yourfelf or
to your agents, the Bank-Directors, on ac
count of bills fold for the sum of 2.504, - (g
- dollar:, drawn over from Europe—was it.
Sir, that you were unable or unwilling to
s ass >rd this information f Wa it inexpeii
- ent to do so, Sir, and therefore the cause
y of all that angry and peevish invective
, which is displayed in your letter ot the 4th
- of this month, where, in r.nfwering the re
v Solutions of Mr. Giles, you acknow: dge
e the infufficiency of your former report, and
1, with great apparent sincerity declare
d that you will meet every point of enquiry
r with d'eifion and explicitue] s ? What, Sir,
'- a decifioii and expli itnefs, applicable only
- to further concealment ? And does it (till
II continue so inexpedient to give the infor
y mation to which I have referred, thflt now,
:e even now Sir. when<?// your defence isbe
n fore the public, it is yet withheld ?
;r Pardon me, then, Sir, if lam one of tljofe
j-, unbelievers, who placing no confidence in
it any of your profeflions, do verily think that
you neither wish, desire, nor dare to meet
m full and fair enquiry. Have you asked it,
le Sir? Have yen exprefled a wish that the
Legislature should inflitute a mode of en
e, qtiiry, or appoint a committee for that
. - purpose ?
2, \ou have done neither. Sir—You. I
presume. disdain the honorable example ol
1- the Secretary at War, who called for pub
ic lie enquiry, and demanded to be heard.
2- Satisfied with having delayed fix weeks, ir
c- preparing the multifarious matter of fom«
a- halta dozen pamphlets and twice as manj
a- conjectural Statements. not one of which 'r
ry authenticated by an offccr of your de
fy partment except yourfelf—Satisfied wit!
a- having furnifned evafiou and contradiftior
enough to puzzle the Legifiatare for ano
ther fix weeks, and to be utterly unintelli
gible to the people at large. Satisfied with
Raving .thrown all thole perplexities into
the last v/eek of a fefiion, your wounded
honor and troubled spirit,- can quickly re
cover tlx.- injuries they have fuftalncd, a .id
fink' witlk.-ofe iiito a liftjefi state or indif
ference -'".I i::fcp.Ability.
That proud and difdainful mind which
could not brook the firft dawnings of sus
picion, bat inn ft the:i write volumes in its
defence, can now compose itfelf in perfert
tranquility, and become at once vjonder
fMly acjifieJ'cent under those thick and
dark clouds of suspicion which beleaguer
it; all the provocation ofdiredt
and positive charges, and content not to
all; for a (rnhlic enquiry, nor tha* the Le
giflatiire I'.ould even examine and fee for
themjelvts, where the public money now is:
An examination which is desired by many
as one of the means to ieflen or remove
present fifpicion ;for let It be remembered,
Sir.rhata'-cordingtoyourownfhew ing, there
oavhf{o '-nv» been on the firft of January
lalt, about ,700.000 dollars in cafli, of
public m»itr , on hand, much the greater
part said to be then in the Treafurv, or in
the Bank of the United States,
It is in va;n, however, to pursue you
thr? 1 all that labyrinth of evasion, contra
diction, ,Ind artifice which your apologies
exhibit; a new and more interelting view
of the secret bzifinejs of bill-draw ing, will
be taken ill connection with another fub
je£t, which being a creature of fifcal con
trivance,' owes its birth, its growth, and
pre Tent maturity, to the fame prolific brain
and foftering hand with the other, and
therefore may reafqn;ibly be supposed to
hive largely partaken of the waruielt and
Itrougeft fympathiei of a mind at all times
so feelingly alive to the public intert-ft—l
j mean, t!*.' Bank of the United States.
The bank and the bill-drawing fyfteni,
• maybe "denominated twin-brothers—bje
! gotten ajnd born of the fame parent, they
, came into exigence on the fame day. The
14th of December, 1790, you reported to
CongreUthe plan of a National Bank, and
; 011 the. 1 yh of December 1790, you com
menced (Mil-drawing.
On tMji 14th of July 1791, the fubferip
| tlons to'the bank were made. On that
day youfliad drawn bills upon Europe to
the amount of 556,000 dollars, of which
sum ,000 dollars had been actually paid
in Am:'erdain, on or before the 31ft ot
preceding, not one (hilling of which
sum ha<? been byyon pa fled into the Trea
sury of ~le United States, as far as yet ap
pears, (v> the said 4th day of July. The
expreflinn in your letter of the 13th instant,
wlk—'v !j.fpea!cof merits at
" teatiwf';•* it is*"-' wsrf^Ct, Jyt" ilnllars &• u
34 cents were patfii over to the Treafwer
in 1791." And by the Trcafurer's ac
counts it appears that he did not receive
this money, until some time in that quar
ter of 1791, which terminated on the 30th
of September ; but neither he nor you
have d'ewed it expedient to name the
> -fh or day- It also appears from the
Trcafurer's accounts, that on the 30th day
Qf June,four days preceding the fubferip
tion to the bank, you had of public money,
depo iri-rl in the bank of North America
the': ' 'ier sum of 4:8.100 dollars, and 17
cents. Thus, Sir. on the 4th of July 1711,
it i-. fairii' p.efumable that besides the said
dcp:>!it of , 100 dollars of public calh in
the bank of North Vuerica that that bank
and file ha. -.v-Yo-k, which had
also de: ' tli said 30th of June,
I 92680 lilar < • • public money,
were e r ' ed to discount for 30 days at lead
to the f\ill amount of the before mentioned
• sum of .86,000 dollars of the publicmoney.
That tliey did so, is not for me to fay—
) that they were enabled to do so, any mail
. who .ill recur to your own reports and
i compare tin m with these circumstances,
may be fully fatiitied. But this is not all:
■ the ' fubfeription to the bank under the
■ happy aujpices and infiramentality ofyour
1 / madam friend DUER, it is well known,
pr .luced that general intoxication, better
3 remembered by the name ot the Scrip Ala
-1 nia. Various and extraordinary were the
? fluctuations of this buir.iefs, and perhaps,
• Slr.yott would haverenderedCongrefs quite
, ar nr. ich ufeftd information by reporting to
1 themtha prices of Scrip thro' tiie year
1 1791, as you did by reporting to them the
- prices of fix per cents, three per cents, and
, deferred, during the fame year, taken and
- vouched on your behalf, and at your rs
qnefl, from those high and respectable au
e thorities, a BROKER'S books, and Johnny
a Fetwo's Treasury Gazette. The.fluftua
t tions in scrip continued until some time
c in January or February 17925 and in the
, latter month the bubble burst, your frienc
e Duer retreating to the jail of New-York
- about the firft of April. Before Februarj
t you had drawn bills on Holland foi
upwards of one million ot dollars, and 01
I the 20th of February 970,000 dollars oi
if that money had been a£hially paid in Am
- fierdam, altho' no more than 361.391 dol
!. lars 34 cents had been by you parted over tc
n the treasury of the United States on t?-1
e last day of that month. Your next pay
y ment of 327,136 dollars, being faidtp be 11
is i\lnr /• 1792, which I prcfume was ast c>
- The bubble luirlt—from which time unti
h the 28th of December last. you conriuurc
n to draw for a farther film of 1,209,720 dol
lars, nil in favour of the bank of the Uni -
ted States, solely'; and of which sum yoft
admit that not one (hilling had been pa[fed
oner to the public treasury wlien the pre
sent enquiry commenced.
The foregoing facts are few, concise,
and ilrong ; if any thing in them appears
too pointed, you, Sir, only have to regret
that they are I'oundcd in ia£t, and taken
from your own exhibits. That they may
lead to the developementof yet unexplain
ed motives, and aflill the public mind in
the further investigation oi those stimula
ting Causes by which the fecitt bufmefs of
bill drawing .t as influenced, is the only
wifli, as is the discovery of truth, the only
motive of DECIUS.
February 2 7th, 1793.
i—MIIM nißHumri—1 —
PHILADELPHIA.
February 27*
We are desired, from good authority, to
correct a paragraph in our paper of the
sth of January jart, relative to the i-iecti
on of Senators for the State of South Ca
rolina, in which it was mentioned, " t.iat
Governor Pxncknev woj in nomination y
or a candidate for Senator." —We are te
quefted to declare, "that Mr. Pinckney
was not on that occasion, nor ever thought
of being a candidate as a senator ; and
that upon being spoken to,previous to the
eledtion, by some of his friends, he not on
ly pactively declared he would net be a
candidate, but expressly directed a num
ber of the members ol the legislature, that
if they saw his name up, as a candidate,
to ilrike it out —and that he was not, nor
ever had, the least with or thought at;
that time,of being a candidate as a fenatoi,
is so well known to the members of the
legislature, that it 11,1 ft ap, ear afUmifh
ing how such a miitake could be made.as to
suppose he was," [The extract of the letiCi
alluded to above, u>as copied into the Nati
onal Gazette, from one of the Daily ? a ~
pers of this city,in mofiof which it appeared
previous to its insertion in the A atior ah
Gazette.]
Letters from Cape Francois, to the 21ft
of January, particularize lonie of the late
fuccefles of the volunteer army of whites
and mulattoesagainft the negro infurrents.
On the ;4th, the army lefc the Cape. On
the 16th they attacked the poftotGrand
pre.i tnd Grandriviere, both of which they
carried—The negroes fled, and were dri
ven from fort to fort, and in various
dircttions towards the mountains. 'I hey
arc now driven inr.aa fulfil apd barr~n d:-
vifton of the country, w here it was thought
they could not long subsist- Several gangs,
when these accounts left the Cape, had
sent in flags to their matters, that they are
willing to return to their duty.
• The-BritUh government lias prohibited
the exportation of foreign wheat from
that country to France, and have oKtered
nona to be admitted to entry for that king
dom, but only to neutral countries, under
bond for its difrharge there : an embargo
has been alio laid in Ireland upon all kinds
of provisions, with a view (it is said) to
starve France, if poflible.
On Thursday last a resolution pafied the
Pennsylvania Honfe of Repreferitatives,
for granting the sum of 7500!. to finifn the
house intended for the accommodation of
the President of the Uiited States. This
sum, is to be borrowed on loan, and to be
repaid by a tax on the New Theatre, of
50 dollars per nieht. —Should this refolu
pafs into a law, it is said, a remonstrance
will be handed in on the part of the fu'o
fcribers to the Theatre.
The French naval force in the Mediter
ranean is said to amount to 19 fail of the
line, 3iid many large frigates. The Re
publican, of 110 guns, is in Toulcn RoacU
All the war-fhipsof the Dutch have re.-
ceived orders from the government to be
ready for sea in March.
We hear from New-York, that Philip
Van Cortlandt, Esq. is chosen one of the
Representatives in the Congrpfs of the U
nited States, for that state,
Prices of American produce at Brijlol,
December 24, 1792.
Pot-afli (firft quality) 29/ to 30/ —Pearl
ditto 34/ to 36/"— Rice, long price 2(J ihort
price 1 —Indigo 2f(i to 5/i> —Pitch ~J to
7_/6 —Tar 1 3/— Turpentine 8/6 —Bees wAx
81. to 9I. —i>eer fhlns in the hair, found,
17d per lb—Ditto, half drefled 2Qd to 22d
—Pine boards and plank from ic/ to
per hundred feet (inch thick) —Oak ditto,
14/ to 1 5/per hundred feet, inch thick—
Pipe staves, 81. 81 a ijl. 3,J per M.—Khd.
ditto, 51. a 91. per ditto—Barrel ditto 41.
4/a 61. per do.—Flour I<J to i-J per C.—
Wheat (f\ to 6/9 per bnlhel—Pig iron 61.
to 7I. —Tobacco 4d j-4 to 5d 1-2.
(Signed)
ELI AS VANDER HORST,
(American Consul at Briftfil.)
>
In the piece flgned DECIb S, in our
last, the reader is desired to correfl the
following error.—F'i",e 3. Column 1 —55
linesfrom the font, for fold, read, dfg- t yn.ODE TO LIBERTY.
Written by a Young Lady of the city of
New-York.
W H ' LE fierce ftellona's war-inspiring breath
O'er trembling £iirope. scatters plagues and
death ;
W'hilft kings an J princes, leagu'd{l? oft before)
With powers infernal, her rude form adore,
Feart their.bJeai'd eye« with scenes of human woe,
And Ov.ut,, responsive to each deadly blow :
Whilst Gallia's sons oehold, w: . ardent fiyhs,
O'er her fair hills the threat'ning tempests rife ;
VVhilll Prufiia's kinr, and Brunfwick's pre
fu-me
To ihroud her profpetts in eternal glo.om,
'I o wrtft lair freedom from her weeping plains
And bind the yoddeln with rnonarchial chains:
Elut, dazzled with be* glerions light,
Retiring, /hun the unequal fight j
Whilst miaft their horror-smitten bands
Black devaltation rears his head,
Malignly smiles at heaps of dead,
Aiid bathes in flavilh blood his murderous hands,
Whilst deeds like thele diftra& the earth
And give ten thoufa.nd evils birth,
Say—(hall the muse bv fear oppreft
Recline on floih's unfeeling breast ?
No ! —tho' a theme so high, so great
Should break her lyre's untutor'd firings,
Yet/hould the fuffering cbordi relate
That Liberty's enchanting name
Taught their young brearh to sigh for fame
Surpafs'd their feeble power, and.feai'd their fate
O thou ! who etft from Europe flown,
Plac'd in this western world thy throne,
No more a hated exile, now
See Gallia's sons before thee bow,
Fur thee they twine with frantic joy
A wreathe, which Time fiiall ne'er destroy j
Whilst at thy feet, with gasping breath
Fell tyranny th) empire owns
Rattles her iron chains, & grinds her flinty teeth
Hut tho' forgetting former wrongs,
Thou feek'ft again thy native land,
To fill her groves with joyful fangs,
And scatter blefiings with a parent's hand,
Thtu haft not from Columbia's shores
Withdrawn the form she dill adores,
But, with benignant zeal, itnpreft
Thy lovely image on his offspring's breast.
O, may thy cheering influence spread
From skies which kiss the saftern fun
Till where—(his shining circuit run)—
He rests in Ocean's ample bed «
Till Afiic'a heat, and Zembla's fnoar
With the celedial ardour glow,
Till all who boall the human name
Bind on their hearts this firm decree,
Each llavilh palfion we'll fore'er disclaim
And perish in the bright attempt,
Or Live—foe ever free !"
CONGRESS.
Wednesday, Feb. 20.
After leading a communication from thi
Secretary of the Treasury (relative to thi
resolution of Jan. 23d.) the bill was re
ceived from the Senate making appropria
tionsfor the fuoport of government so;
J 793, which they had pafled with amend
ments. —'i lit Speaker signed two enrollei
bills, to authorize a settlement of Thoma;
Wifhart's accounts; and for the adjuftmtnl
of Joseph Henderfon's claims againlt th<
United Sta'es—The Senate's amendment;
to the appropriation bill were read, ani
laid on the table for confederation to-mor
row—The bill from the Senate, additiona
to the ast for the establishment of jtidicia
courts of the United States, was read ;
third time and pafled—Mr. Murray laid :
motion 011 the table, for apppointing ;
committee to report a bill for regulating
the mo.le of taking bail in certain cases
regulating rec.overy of colls against infor
mers, &c.—On motion, a committee ol
three was appointed for bvingiug in a bil
for fixing the time of the next annual meet
ing of Congress—A bill was directed tc
be brought in for the relief of the inhabit
ants of the French settlement of Gallio
polis, on the Ohio, in confeqtience of a
favourable report from the committee to
whom their petitions had been leferred—
The amendments to the bill for regulating
invalid pensions, were considered : The
lioufe receded f om their disagreement to
one of the amendments proposed by the
Senate, and voted not to recede from their
d fagreement to the other.
Thursday, Feb- 21.
Two reports from the secretary of the
treasury were read, on private petitions ;
one was referred and the other laid on the
table—A bill was then twice read, and
committed, appropriating a fumto defray
the expence of holding a treaty with cei
tain hottile Indian tribes—Several reports
were read from the Secretary of War on
petitions from widows and orphans of offi
cers killed in the service of the United-
States prior to May 18th 1778, and for
oificeis andloldiers wounded, since that
period. On motion, a committee was ap-
pointed to bring in a bill providing for
certain judicial objects &c. A letter was
read from the Secretary of Mate, relative
to the President's message (of Feb. 4.
1791) on the commercial intercourse be
tween the United States and foreign na
tions ; dating the neceftity of deferring
the conlideration of fucli report till next
session, thAt in the interim materials sot
better information may be obtained—re
ferred to a feleft committee—Mr. Claris
vofe,and moved, "That as the Mace of this
house is a useless instrument, a fuperfluou:
ornament, an unmeaning symbol, and un
worthy the dignity of a republican govern
ment, or to be retained in thr fe,it of re
publican councils ; that therefore it be
broken up, the silver sent to the mint
melted down, (lamped into coin, and de
posited in the Treafitry of Uniter
States"—The quellion, will the house now
proceed to confiderthe said relolntion ?—
palled in the affirmative—and on th<
quellion, will the house agree to the refo.
lution? the fame was negatived— 13 mem
be's rising only in the affirmative.—A
mefiagefrom tie President of the Unitec
States was.received, informing thjt he hac
approved and signed the ast for promoting
the progress of the ufeful arts, including;
repeal of the former ast ; and an ast foi
repealing part of a resolution of the lati
Congress, relative to the inhabitants o
Pod St. Vincennes—The house then weni
into committee of the whole on the bil
from the Senate for an additional ast ti
amend the ast for extending the time li
mited for fettling the accounts betweer
the United States and the individual State;
—A motion was made for llriking oul
the firll section, the object of which is tc
repeal the second section of the former ast
making the State of Vermont a party tc
the accounts between the United and in
dividnal States—After some defcate thii
motion was negatived; other amendment!
were proposed and disagreed to, and tht
bill then agreed to without amendment
—The yeas and nays for linking out fee
tion 1, were—Yeas 17 —Nays 39
The house in committee of the whole,took
up a bill for exempting from duty ufefu
apimals imported for breed j a amend
ments being made, the bill was ordered tc
be engrofled.
Mr. Barnwell laid a motion 011 ;be table
that a committee be appointed to "bring ir
a bill for fixing the salaries of impoll anc
tonnage collectors to dollars per an
num. 1
[From The MAIL.J
On Monday the 18th of February, tht
Judges of the Supreme Court of the Uni
ted States delivered their opinions upon
the important quellion that had been ar
gued before them for thirteen d^ys—viz
Whether an individual of any liate may
sue a Hate, or, the United States ; 01
whether the citizens of any one state, may
sue another state. 'I he Attorney-Gene
ral (Mr. Randolph) was employed on
behalf of the executors of a citizen of the
state of Georgia, who had left America
previous to the revolution, and removed to
Great Britain, after fettl ng a partnerlhip
account with two partners in trade, and
whose bonds he took for the balance due
him. After his deceafp, his executors,
on making application for payment, found
that those two persons who had given
their joint bond had been inimical to the
cause of liberty in the United Sates, and
that their property was confifcated. '1 he
executors, alledging that the |>ond was
given previous to the revolution, applied
to the state of Georgia foi relipf. It then
became a matter of dispute, whether
those executors, being ci'izens of South-
Carolina, could sue the state of Geo.
rgia. An ailion was instituted in the
United States Circuit Court of Georgia,
and a verdict obtained in behalf of the
plaintiffs, but removed by a writ of demur
rer to the Supreme Court of the United
State 6 ; and after being argued for several
■Jays by the Attorney-General of the U
nitrd Statts, and Mr. Dallas, who was em
ployed against him, the five Judges, as we
have already mentioned, on Monday de
livered their opinions. Judge Iredell's o
pinion was againll the doctrines advanced
by the Attorney-General; but the Chief
Jll ft ice, Mr. Jay, Judge Cufliing, Judge
Wilson, and Judge Blair were of an op
posite opinion, and confirgicd tftat of the
Attorney-General, which fixes a molt
material and rational feature in the judici
ary of the United States—That ev- ry in
dividual of any state has the natural privi
lege of suing either the United States ot
any (late whatever in the Union, for re-
dress, in all cases where he can prove a
iuft claim, a loss, or an injury having been
sustained, and viceversa.
Communications from Correspondents.
A writer in the Gazette of the UniteJ
States, of last Wedncfday, complains that
" a certain Gazette'' appears to him for
all the world like a Tar Keltic—Merely
(it is fnppofcd). on account of that Gazette
being at all times open to free discussion
on all questions, and from all parties,but by
no means excluding such pieces as have a ten
dency to fmole out the gnats and infeßs r f aris
tocracy and monarchy from these territories.
A burnt child, (not only the tar burnt)
always dreads the fire : and probably a tar
kettle, a mop, and a coat of plumes might,
in 1775 have been to this pcrfon, an equal
objeS of terrific apprehension.
The aftonilhing successes of the French
nation in afierting and vindicating the na
tural and political rights of mankind in
Europe, has evidently thrown a fettled
scowl of haggard and disconsolate tmlan
choly over the visages of the enemies of
those general rjghts in this country. Ho
ping Itill, however, to carry their favourite
point by hypocrisy, and finding it necef
fary to yield in some small degree to the
irrefillible torrent of the times, tlie thin
veil of republicanism is afTumed. Even
certain writers (noted (ticklers for Titles)
in the Hartfoid papers, begin to compli
ment themselves with the appellation of
• Republican,"and"we republicans",in some
of their late writings "we apples (said
the hprfe t—ds, as they were floating a
long in company vvith the apples) how
pleajantly do we ftuim !"—The application
is easy.—May they be converted from
their error,and befaved.
It is wished, that with the general de
molition of useless and unmeaning titles,
that of reverend may be laid aside by they
clergy of all denominations. A moment's
conlideration of the real import of this
word will demonflrate the impropriety of
its use. In days of old when the clergy of
papal Europe (with whom the appellation
originated) were little better than a kind
of inquisitorial aids-de-camp to civil defpo
tilm, and closely linked ill with civil po
licy, the better to tyrannise over the peo
ple, the individuals of the clerical body
might properly enough have been flyled
reverend, as being objects of aweful-dreati
and servile veneration. This, indeed, and
this only, is the real idea comprehended in
the word, derived from the latin, revereor,
i - e. " to (land in awe," or " be greatly
afraid of"—illy adapted indeed, to a poor
frail mortal, whose breath is in his nostrils
and himfelf transient as the grass of the
field ! — Render unto Ctfar the things that
are Cefar's, and unto God the things that
are God's ; and let those, who would be
thought wife, not arrogate to themselves
the fearful- attributes of divinity
Titles among men, if at all jultifiable, can
only be so on the principle of rational re
fpe3, and not of blind adoration.
T O B E SOLD,
By JOSEPH CRUKSHANK, in Mar
ket flrect,
LETTERS
Addrefled to the Yeomanfy of the Uniteu
States, {hewing the necefliry oi'confining the pub
tic revenue to a fixed proportion of the net pro
duce of the land, and the bad policy and injuftict
of every species of indirect taxation and commer
cial regulations .
BY A FARMER.
Also, may be had at the fame place, a few co
p;es of the FARMER'S LETTERS, containing
'bfervations on the dangerous fchsme of Governor
Duer and Mr, Secretary Hamilton to eflabliih
National Manufasure».
Feb. 22. gt. law
Jujl Publijhed,
By ft. & P. RjCE, Nr>. 50, Market-Street,
T H SYSTEM OF
/iort-P£ci7ic/,
Used bv Mr. Llovd, in takine down the
DEBATES'of CONGRESS.
# # * REPRESEN T ATiQN having been made,
that the shortness of the period, limited for the
fubfeription, has deprived many gentlemen at a
Jiflance, of an opportunity of fending in their
names :—The Editor, in order to accommodate
them, and to render this publication more ex
tenfively u feful, has determined not toraifethe
price to a dojlar and an half (as intended) before
the fifteenth of March ; —making however a dif
crimination, in f*vor of the actual fubfciibers,
by printing their copies on fupajine royal ivritirg
paper. Afeiv remaining copies of 1 his kind will
be delivered to the earliclt of the non-fubfci ibini?
purcha/ers, at the fame price as rhofe on the com
mon printing paper, viz. one dollar, in marbled
covers neatly boynd, a French frojvn,
Jjia. 25. 4t.
A CAUTION TO THE PUBLIC.
A LL persons are forewarned how they take
L A- an afiig nment upon a bond of £. 112 ; 10
( bt-aring date January 16, 179;, given by MOR
DF.CAi and NATHAN HOLT, of the townftiip
o: Horiham, county of Montgomery, and State of
l J ennfylvania, unto lfalah Qiiinby of the town
ship ot Amwell, county of Hunterdon, state of
X'ew.Jerfey ; a? the sum fpecified within fail
bond has been lawfully tendered to the said Jfai
ih Quinby on the day it became due ; but he
having refufed (o comply with certain (lipulati.
oni agreed to before inc<-nteftabie evidences, pre
vious to his receiving said bond, we are now de
termined to concert the fame.
MORDECAI HOLT.
NATHAN HOLT.
P. S. Said bond was obtained by illegal meant
and may probably be conteiied for reasons njt
here referred to.
Hor<ham Township, January 28 1793.
3t jaw.
Philadelphia, January it, 1795.
MATHEW CAREY
Refpettfully informs the Citizens of the
United States, that the Maps for hi J
intended edition of
Guthrie's Geography
IMPROVED,
Are now engraving—and as soon as a fufficient
number of them are finifhed, to secure a regular
supply during the publication,which will proba
bly be early next Spring, the work will be put
to press.
He returns his acknowledgments t 0 the very
refpeflable number of subscribers, wh havecome
forward thus early to pationize this arduous un
dertaking. He aflurts them and the public in
general, that no pains or expence i7ia.ll be spared ia
the execution of the w>rk.
Terms of the Work :
I. IT /hall be published in 48 weekly nurn
bers, each containing three flieeis, or tW:ntv-fou
pages, of letter press, in quarto, printed wiih vr
types on fine paper.
11. In the course of (he ivork will be delivered
about thirty large maps, of the fame lize as ihofe
iii the European editions, viz. molt of them
maps on post paper.
Be/ides the maps in the Britifb Edition,
tbis work ivl l contain nine tr ten America'/ States
Maps.
111. The price of each number will oe a quar
ter dollar, to be paid on delivery.
i'Ct* No advance required.
IV. Subfjribers who disapprove of the work,
on the publication of the ch;ee firft numbers, are
to be at liberty to return them, and fliafl have
their money repaid.
V. The subscribers* names (hail be prefixed at
patrons of the undertaking.
*** Subfcriptiotis received in Philadelphia by
the intended publisher ? in New-York, by all the
nookfellers j in New Haven, by M . Beers : ia
Hertford, by Mr. Fatten ' x in Boston, by Me&
I»ouma» fed Andrews, and by Mr. Weft } ir
Baltimore, by Mr. Rice j in Richmond, by
i. Carey j in Charfefton, by Mr, W. P. Younjt
and by sundry other persons throughout the Un£
ted States. jawj
Philadelphia & New-York
STAGES,
BY WAY OF
BURLINGTON, lORDKNTON, & SOUTH.
AM:BOY—
TX7"ILL start from Samuel Cooper"s Ferry, oppo
lite to Philadelphia, every Sunday and V/ed
nefday morning, during the winter season, and
airive at South-Amboy on Monday, and Thursday
?venings—where a good boat will be ready to con
vey Goods and Paflengers to New-York.
The Stage boats will leave New-York every
Monday and Thursday, so as to meet the Stages
from Philadelphia at Amboy, to proceed for Phi
ladelphia next day. All Baggage, belonging to
paflengersto be at their own ril jve. %
All Goods forwarded by the Stages on bill, to
be under the particular care of the Proprietors of
the Stages j but not warranted again-ft robbery or
damage—And all entering, dealing and permits,
to be paid by (he owners of goods.
Price of a paflage from Cooper's ferry to New-
York, ' - - - - £0. 18. 9.
2Colb. of Goods, to pay thepj-iceof a paflage.
All Way paflengers, 3d pet mile.
AMOS HUTCHIN, and 7 For Burlinj-
NICHOLAS SCHENCJC. S ton line.
VAN EMBURGH k M'KEAN, \ For Borden
and DAVID WILLIAMSON, $ ton line.
Jani'arv 16, 1703. [ law, w.
~~ WATC HE S. "
ROBERT LESLIE,
CLOCK and WATCH MA.K.ER, No. 167,
Market-street.
AFTER returning his sincere thanks to his
friends, and the public in general, for She
encouragement he has experienced iince the
commencement of his business in this city, takes
•: his opportunity of informing them that, in con
leqnence of his intention of going to London in A
pril next, he is felling off, at very reduced prices,
his stock in trade, confiding of a very large and
general alTortment of enamelled and plajn gold,
gilt and fil v<• -, car>r, and capr and i-velled
WARRANTED WATCHES,
Mod of which are of the latest importation ani
newest fafhion, — Also a variety of the hi ghe ft 11-
nifhed cut lleel, and gilt, ladies and gentlemen's
Watch Chains, Seals, Keys, and Trinkets, toge
ther with a few Gold Chains, Keys and Seals.
Philad. Jan. 16, 1793. ef.tf.
PRINTED BY
GUILDS and SWAINE,
AT THEIR OFFICE NO. 20Q, HIGH- STREET,
FTFTH-STR lIT
Philadelphia#