Bt P. FRENEAU: (at No. 209, Market Street) PnHijhtd Wednesdays and Saturdays, [Three Do llars per annum.']
Numb. 98 of Vol. ll.]
LONDON, August 2.
ARTICLES OF CAPITUL IT] ON,
Proposed by the Genera! of the tiiviiio'n,
iERRANi), commanding tile troops of
the French Republic at V aleucieiihes, the
26th of July, 1793
To Frederick duke of York, tnm:nandrns >
the combined army at the j.t&i of
Valencieiinei.—
pENF.RAL FERRAND will deliver tip
to the duke of York the town h < ita
del of Valenciennes, upon the following
conditions.—Anf. General Ferrand (hall
" deliver tip to his royal highness the duke of
York, commander in chief of the combined
army employed at the liege ps Valencien
nes, for his majesty the emperor and king,
the town and citadel of Va! 'iicienoes, on
the conditions hereafter flipulated :
Article 1. The garrison lhall obtain the
honours of war, as well as every military
article.—Anf. The garrison lhall march put
by the gate of Cambray with the honours
of war, and lhall lay down their arms at
the houfc called Le Briquet, where they
lhall leave their colours aiul fisld piece*,
without damaging them in the least. They
fliall likewil'e leave the troop iioi fes, artil
lery, provillons and other military e(fe£ts.
Those belonging to the officers lhall be re
llored to them, with their swords.
2. All the ammunition of whatever kind,
artillery, & every article, constituting and
making part of the army, fliall be retained.
Anf. Refined.
3- The garrison fliall march out from tlv
place on the sixth day after the llgiiature of
the capitulation, by the gate of Tournay,
to repair to such part of the republic as ge
neral Ferrand lhall judge proper, with
arms and baggage, horses, drums beating,
matches lighted at both ends, colours fly
ing, and all the cannon they cin carry, a
way.—Anf. The garrison (hall march out
on the 1 tt of Auguit, in th? manner stipu
lated by the firlt article ; and as they lhall
he prisoners of war,their i:oute to return to
France shall be commiusicated to them
twenty-four hours previously to their de
parture, in order to receive their parole of
lionaur and the officers, as well as to ar
range other matters refpecling the foldierv,
who fliall engage not to serve dui inp: the
whole course of the present war againlt the
armies of his majesty the emperor, and of
his allies, without having been exchanged
conformably to the cartels, under pain ps
military punishment.
4. The other pieces of artillery fliall-fol
lovv in eight days after the departure of the
garrison, as well as the ammunition and mi
litary effects Anf. Refufed,as to what re
lates to the artillery, and, in general, to all
the warlike (lores and provilions, and other
military articles ; but grained, as to what
relates to the personal property of the offi
cers and fiddlers of the garrison.
5. The neceflary carriages and horses
for transporting the baggage, aud for
mounting the officers, fliall he paid for as
may be agreed upon.—Anf. The neceflary
carriages and horses for the transport of
the baggage (hall be provided for the gar
rifon, 011 being paid for; and the coinmif
faries at war, who drill on their part re
main in the place, (hall be perfoually re
fponlible for the return of the said carri
ages and horses.
6. Tsvclve covered waggons (hall be pro
vided, which are not to befearched.—Anf.
Refufed
7. The convalefeent soldiers, in a Hala
tion of being removed, shall be carried a
way, and the neceflary carriages for their
removal (hall also be provided by the befie
gers.—Anf. Granted,under the llipnlations
of the fifth article.
8. As to the flck who are unable to bear
removal, they shall remain in the hospitals
where they no\v are ; being taken care of
by the officers of health appointed for that
purpose, at the expence of the republic,
ander the infpeclion of a commiflary at
""war ; and whenever tliefe sick persons lhall
be fit for removal, they lhall in like man
ner be furnifhed with carriage";.—Anf.
Granted : provided that the commil'iaries
remaining for the administration of the
hospital fliall be fubjeft to the military po
_ lie, as well as those mentioned in the jth
article; and the convalescent soldiers fliall
be prisoners as rtipulated in the 3d article.
y. The representatives of the people, and
all persons attached to the republic, of
whatever description they may be, fliall
participate in the capitulation of the army,
and shall enjoy the fame conditions.—Anf.
All persons, not military, being confidert'd
a-s citizens, fliall enjoy the treatmeiU grant
ed to this cl-fs of persons,
S A t U R D A TV October 5,
io. The deserters lhall remain recipro
cally in the corps in which they are, with
out bo-inn molefteel. With regard to the
prisoners, th*y m y be exchanged.—Anf.
Refufed. The deserters (hall be fcrupti
uully delivered up before the garrison
eaves the place j and the nccenary re
earches lhall be made to discover those
who may be concealed. The Austrian
prisoners, and those of the allied powers,
lhall be faithfully, reflored.
i!. Gommilfaries fhadl be appointed on
both litles, to fix upon the objects which
Tiill be adjudged to the republic ; as well as
ill the pspersi rejatite to the artillery, the
'ortilicatiuns and military registers, as well
those ot this town'as of every other pb.ee
belonging tu the republic. The fame4hill
ie oblerved with refpefl to all the paper:
t>{" the civil and military adminiltrationj.—
Anf. GommifTaries froii all the civil, and
military departments lhall be appointed,
o receive the papers, elTc'fls and inilitarj
mildings, artillery, call-iron,arfenals, war
ike (lores and provilions. military and ci
/il chelts. In a word, all the other objeitls he
onging to the government, of whatever de
cription. These commilfaries (hall be in
roduced into the town immediately aff'cr
he exihangf. of hollagc. The chiefs ol
:he different,corps (hill be perfoually re
ponfiDle for the frauds which uray be com
mitted in the delivery of the papers, chsds,
artillery, and other objects above menti
oned.
12. The inhabitants of both sexes at pre
"ent in this town, or those who have taken
efuge in it, the public fun&ionaries, and
ill the other agents of the French republic,
hall be protected in their honours, their
lives, and their properties, with permission
:o retire wherever they please. — Anf. The
*ood order and discipline of the allied ar
mies will preserve the inhabitants from ea
tery kind of insult in their perfoHs and
properties.
13. For the maintenance of ortler in the
police, the fafety of persons, and preserva
tion of property, the cpnftituted authori
ties and the tribunals (had remain iti the
tlifcliarge of their functions until ft may be
jtherwife provided. The decilions of the
tribunals (hall"be refpefted, and 110 confli
cted authority lhall be called to account
hnr the legal proceedings of its adminiitra
ion, or of its jurHeli&ion.—Anf. Kefuled;
jut the adminiurative and judicial corp;
lhall be respected, until it (hall have been
Jtherwife provided by his imperial niaje
ly.
14. No person (hall be molested for hi;
opinions, whatever they may have been, or
or what he (hall have lawfully said or
lone before or during the (iege Anf. The
ntentjon of his majelly the emperor ant
the king "is, that the peaceable inhabitant
lioulel in 110 wife be dillurbed.
15. The inhabitants (hall not be fubjeS
to the quartering of troops. —Anf. Grant
ed; as far as the number and accommo
dation of the military buildings will allow.
16. The inhabitants {hall not be obligee
to perform any military duty, and thoft
why have done Io until Ihe present mo
ment (hall not he considered as military.—
Anf. The inhabitants (hail not be obligee
to perform any military service, except ii
the usual cases, in the Provinces of his ma
je-lty the emperor in the Low Countries.
A« to those who lhall be armed or in uni
form, they (hall be treated as the other mi
litary, according to the 3d article.
17. The inhabitants (hall alio be exempt
sd from military labour.—Anf. Referrec
Co article 16.
18. Those persons who (hall chufe ti
-efiele elsewhere, (hall hat'e liberty to de
part from the town with their families,
>agga*e, furniture and effects, and to dif
uife of their immoveable property,or whai
s deemed filch', to the profit of whomfoe
ker they may think proper, during the
term ot fix months. —Anf. The inhabi
tants lhall be permitted to retire witl
their effects, within the term of (ix months,
wherever they please, and paflports flial
be granted to them in confequenee.
19. All those who may wifii to returr
to, or to come anil inhabit 111 the city, Ihal
be received, arid (hall enjoy the fame ad
vantages as the other inhabitants. —Anf.
Granted.
20. The present currency, namelyeffig
nats, (hall continue to be received.—Anf.
Refufeel to acknowledge aflignats as mo
ney until an ulterior arrangement.
21. The national domains, which have
been fold in comformity to the exilling
law s, (hall be reserved to the pnrchafers. —
Anf, This gr.iUc not being of a military
nature, fliall be reserved, as the preceding
one, for future arrangement.
22. The commonalty (hull tontinue to
enjoy the properties which they at present
pof.'efs, both moveables and immoveables,
especially the corn which they have in ma
gazines, lor the fublifleripe-of the inhabi
tants! Answered as the preceding
;irti:!e. With regard to the magazines of
conTj they lhall be elifpofed of for the bene
fit of the persons to whoin they of right
belong.
23. The colleges, hospitals, and other
charitable cftablilhments, (hall continue in
:lie iree and peaceable enjcryment of all
their piopei ty, moveable an 3 immoveable.
—Acs. Granted for all legitimate property.
24. All lebts coiitracteii'jjefore and dur
ing the liege by the myjiicipality, the ge
neral council of the commonalty, and o
ther cohftituted authorities, wnetherliqui
tlated or to be liquidated, fliall be held as
IjwfullJr and fuftlj contrafted.—Anf. The
debts contracted by the garrison, the mili
tary citizens ar.d inhabitants of whatever
tjefcription, ftiall be liquidated tothefacif
t; ifiion ot the parties.
25. If any difficulty in the terms and
cend.itions of the capitulation fhouid Oc
uir, it fliall be understood in the most fa
vourable sense for the garrison of the place
and its inhabitants.- Ar.f. All the anlwers
above mentioned being clearly e::prcffed,
this article is without an object.
Given at my Head At Valenciennes, the
quarters, before 27th of July, 1793,
Valenciennes, this iti the 2d year of the
28th of July 1793. French Republic..
(Sigt/cd) (Srgtied)
Frederick, dwks Ferrand,
or York, Cojn- The General of the
nrmder in chief of division commanding
the allied army be- in the place.
fore Valencien
nes.
ADDITIONAL ARTICLES.
Art !e I. This thy, the 28th of J'jty.a!
fev j n o'clock in the morning, the garrison
fliall deliver np to the forces of the belieg
ing army the outworks, the half-moen, the
crown work, the counter-garde, and the
pate of the gate for the fnccour of the ci
tadel, as well as the half-moan and the
horn work of the gate of Cambray. And
for the fake of j)referving order until the
departure of the garrison, they (hud retain
the interioi- of the gate of the Corps de
Place, of the citadel, and of the city, unii.
"heir departure.
11. If an anfvver is not returned by ge
neral Ftrrand, before (even o'clock in th<
evening, it is declared to him that the tire
of the trenches (liall re-commence at niti<
o'clock, when the truce will be terminatec
by his fiience.'
111. The commanders of the different
corps, who have papers or effects to deli
ver up, fliall remain in the place until th<
delivery and Inventories of the papers anc
efl'efls lhall have been made by tile Imjee
rial commiflaries.
IV. As soon as the capitulation fliall b«
ligtied, hoflages (hail be lent into the place
namely, a colonel, a major, and a captain
who fliall be exchanged against officers o
an equal rank of the garrison, which hof
tages fliall be reft or ed immediately alte
execution of the articles oi the capitula
tion.
Given at my head-quarters before Va
lencieiHies, this2Bth as.July; 1793-
(signed) Frhuekick Duke of York
Commander in Chief of the Allie<
Army belieging Valenciennes
Mr. FreneAu,
YOU Hill oblige orie of your conftan
readers by inferring two or three (hori
pieces in the National Gazette, from the
New-Brunfu ick CuArdiAH. The
Meeting to which they allude, was re
fpeftable, being aided by the Prcfiden
- aiHiV'u e-Prelident of Princeton College,
a lawyer of some eminence, &c. The)
all harangued the people, to induce
•them to tome into certain RESOLVES,
that I believe have been "republiflied in
one or two of the Philadelphia papers—
How much it will redound to their ho
nour, the public will in due time judge.
A. b.
Aliddlcfex, (N. J.) Sept. 28.
r T~ , OUhofe who fliall have pertifed the Re
it solves adopted by the delegates afletn
bled 011 the 30th tilt, from the couilties of
SonVerfet and Midiiiefex, to take into con
sideration the Prelideni's proclamation, re
fpetting the neutrality to be oUfer > €4l;
[Total Numb. 202.J
Whereas the 6th, 7th, and Bth refoJves
"are volunteers (i. e. entirely difcon netted
with the Object which occalioned their
meeting) you are to corilider the delegates
in their indiridtial capacities,as exclusive y
entitled to all the credit which thrt-e
merit—doubtless they will raise the thanks
of the French nation for the 6th, where ri
they have so plainly pointed out the man
ner In,which their ambaflador is to condi>6fc
hiftifelf, and so clearly defined their rights
—or is it to 6e supposed, that the French
will consider any insult or.indignity oif .red
to tha organ through which they hold a
Communication witli this country as an in«j
dignity offered to themfelves—for the de
legates seem to have forgntten, that a
grcc.bly to the laws oi' nations, an ambaf
fatfor ii entitled to peculiar privileges, antl
" Is by the universal practice of nations,to
euiov an entire independency from the ju-»
rifdiftion and authority of the state where
he rtlidc*." Vat. p. 688.—As a citizen of
this state I feel a degree of mortification
that the resolves of the delegates, on a fub
|ecl on which, they are incompetent to de
cide, Iho'sld be publithed through the Uni
ted States. Will it not give room for
forming a contemptible opinion of us as a
date ?—We havrrfurcly no reason to with
ts dignity lefl'ened, but on the contrary
ought ro exert ourselves to add to its re
peatability. S.
September 7, 1703.
T COME now, fir, with your leave, and
with the leave ot my fellow citizens here
present, to speak a few words on the prof
pea there lecms toarifeofa war between
(it eat-Britain and the' United States, which
leeais to be the deligtr of the proclamation
to avoid. It appear* to me, "and I prefnnie
to every thinking man in the United Ststcs,
that we have.had and {till have an indireA
war with that restless anddeligni»gn«ition,
nenrly lince finning the late peace, rhroujh
their unjust detention of the vvefter.ll polls;
which if, was prefn'med at that treaty they
really meant to give up in the courf'e of a
year or two —taking a reasonable time for
:heir traders to call in their property front
:he diftailc It is true that that part
as the treaty is loo;1y worded,and not so ex
plicit as a bargain Ichool boys would have
nadein the transfer of a top,a ball,ora mar
hie—yet I think the hotleft tfnfufpe&ing
hearts of our comniilfioners thought the
Britons :u honelt a? themselves,& that they
ivouidfoontgive up those polls according to
lie true intent and meaning of the treaty.fc
I can by no means impute their conduct,
is has been fur mi fed, .to the Britiili gold
Just blinding the eyes of their underitau-
Jing in the ligning that article.
From this cause, without a doubt.arising
in the, mind of any sensible man I have
:onverf'ed with on this subject, fpriiigs the
>var with the Indisis?, for it is well known
;hat at those po!h they a: e supplied licit
jnly with arms and ammunition, hut wirit
rvery article they Itand in need of for their
avage depreciations, 111 which the United
States have luffered the loss. of thoufancis
if men, women nod children, befidss the
.expenditure (if at lead five millions of dal
ars, and in the prefect.year, I doubt whe
ther the account will be closed under two
millions and perhaps the lives of many of
jur worthy fellow citizens; which money
ihould have bee.-j applied to pay our jult
Icbts ; add to this their late and present
fepredations on the ocean, perhaps not le-is
:iian 1 50 ofour vessels, taken bv them, from
jur honelt merchants, and unjustly de
fined to the ruin ofour families, and 'our
unarmed seamen treated in, an inimmaii
manner. Now if we are to bear all this
ivithout' a profptil of redress, and mid
lands to be tied up, let us ilrike out front
jurnew made calendar the, day that has
ieen kept in remembrance of our birth a£
a nation, and return to lick the dtift that
ilefpots are preparing ifor 11s. If the Bri
tons wifif to be at peace with the United
States, let them come forward and (hew
an example of jultfce and humanity, by
immediately giving up Niagara, Detroit,
and ail the extent of country to
11s by the late treaty of peace ; but so lorj
as they hold those ports they 'certainly war
in a dastardly manner against 11s. And let
our government also come forward and
shew an example of justice to the natives;
and this terrible and exptnfive war will
soon cease. It is true that we as private
citizens cannot judge fully of these hiLtteri--,
not knowing the secret iprings of govern
ment, but so far as they luve come to blir
knowledge', we as free citizens have a right
to judge lor Viinfivesj aftil mj Mill JSti£S-'{to fiVtfter purposes hy the delicti'ng, and
commonly leads to dcfpottfin, in the f.ims
manner as excefive miftruil le«ds to anar
chy."
Extract of a\letter from New-York, Oft. i •
" I have not met with a (ingle person a
mong those denominated anti-federalifts by
American aristocrats, title Imnters, & mo
narchy-men, who has expressed a wilh that
the United States (hould take any part in
the present European w.irs, or be involved
in their politics. This pretext of abnfe is
nevertheless continually made use of by
wealthy paper jobbers, and their tools, in
order to depreciate the republicans of this
country, and reprefeiit them as patrons oi
anarchy. The war, however, that the high
federanfts have so mm ii deprecated will
certainly come upon them, and a little of
their ill gotten hoard mull be parted with.
The weltern countrv miift either be given
:ip or defended. The late determination
at the treaty, certainly involves us in a Bri
ti(h and Indian war (as 1 am informed
from Canada) unless the Ohio is mads tile
fixed boundary."
The following card appeared in a New-
York paper of lalt Monday :—" It will be
very plealing to the greatefl part of a con
gregation, if the pastor wijl not let them
know his political sentiments. at a time
and place when a more rerious fubjecl
should be at hand ; for be allured, Rev.
Sir, while your great exertions are mad<
to enlarge your flock, fnch conduct wil
only tend to dim'nifh it, if a liiutenefit upot
this head is not to take place."
According to Ariofto (in his Orlando Fu
rioio) Alloito, a knight errand, was on ;
certain occalion carried to the nioori. H<
was surprised, on his arrival, to find it;
world like ours; to fee rivers, seas, moun
tains, cities, forefts, &c. as wirh us. Anion;
an infinity of animals there, he difcoverei
man ; but he was a creature of an ibferioi
order, and not much regarded The rutin;
Order diftingliilied him by the name of th<
hoard ! ng animal, as being constantly em
ployed in amafling pravifions, &c. to an a
jnount far beyond what the natural limit o
iiislife would evcrpoflib!y allow hint tomaki
life of.—Quere, whether full asjuft a defi
nition would not have been, the lelfifli ani
mall—Certain recent tranf.iftions on out
earth seem to render the latter definitior
at least as applicable as the former.
Extra£t of a letrer from Liverpool, Au
gllft IJ.
" It is impossible that the Americans cat
much longer submit to the insults of th<
English on their trade. Every port in thi:
part of the kingdom swarms with Ameri
can vefl'els, taken and brought in by Britilli
rniiferj. 1 have attended several trials at
DaCtors Conlmons 4 where I have been
ihocked to fee the unaccountable conduct
of both captors and judges." Bribes are
frequently offered, from 5001. to 10061. to
the captains and mates of the prizes, Jo
f\vear against their fliips ; and, lorry Jam
<0 fayj some of them have received the
bribes, and on others the bribes have been
proved, and the vefiels (till detained. No
American veifel is allowed to pass to France
■with any cargo, except Tobdcto, nor is ad
mitted from thence but in ballall. From
what I fee of the wretched ftute of this
country, the Americans have the means of
redress in their own hands, and by acting
with a proper degree of spirit a war may
be prevented. But if the Americans remain
quiet, there is no doubt but this country will
offer Itill greater insults, and they will at
lift be under the rteceltity of taKingup arms.
The best plan for tlie p.-efent, would be to
come into a non-importation agreement
of every article manufactured in Bri
tain. The English and Scotch manufacto
ries (already in the lalt ltage of distress)
would then be wholly at a Hand, and the
many thousands that now fublift by the
American trade, would be reduced to the
greatest extremities. Manchester has at
this time upwards of twenty thousand of
their workpeople maintained by fubferip
tion ; and every manufacturing town in
the country is in the f;ime deplorable con
dition. One cloth manufactory discharged
twelve hundred workmen in one day.—
The other day in Leeds market, upwards
of 10,000 pieces of cloth were put up for
sale, and not 30 fold. Should the United
States (top the trade with Britain, there is
no doubt but the inhabitants would instant
ly refufe any further fubmillion to the folly
of their tyrannic rulers, and would compel
the minister to change his conduCt towards
the Americans. Thus would a war be pre
vented, which mud otherwise soon involve
both countries in ruin."
[From a CorreJpondcnt.~\
To the public:—lt has been remarked by
several citizens that a great number of
lioufes in this city have been doled during
the present contagious and baneful fever,
whereby the air confined in them has be
come stagnant, which is well known to a£t
injuriously to the health of the body. Pure
air is abfelutely neceflary to wholefomere
fpiration, in which the country abounds
where those now are whose houses are clos
ed. I would therefore recommend to
tfcetn, if they have the welfare of their
fellow citizens in Philadelphia at heart,
that they would exert their endeavours,
by some means or other to have their
lioufes daily well aired, whereby many
lives might be f.ived ; for if this precauti
on be not attended to, it certainly will be
followed with fatal confluences. The)
might confide the care of their houses tc
some trusty persons of their acquaintance,
who are yet remaining in the city, during
their absence, for the purpose of airin{
the apartments, whereby the otherwise
probable fatality may be prevented."
A Citizen.
Madame Galbiu, the lady of genera
Galbau, is to fail frum New-York in e
few days, with her family, for old France.
On Tluirfday arrived here tile prize (hip
Golden Age, of Liverpool from Ja/iaica.
She was taken on her pafl'.ige to Liverpool
near the Banks of Newfoundland by the
privateer Ihip Le Citoyen Francois, ol
Bourdeaux. Tile Golden Age (hews ter
ports of a iide, but mounts not more thar
J2 guns. Her cargo is valuable, confut
ing offugar, coffee, cotton, hides,&c. &c.
Several other veilels are arrived in the
Delaware since our lalt, molt ofwhich are
detained below fort Mifflin for inlpeitlor
by the health officer.
Arrived it Nantucket, 2oth ult. (hipFa
voiirite, captain David Folger, from the
coast of Brazil ; who was intended foi
Dilnkirk : But hearing of war, in the
mouth of the Englilh channel, thoughi
belt to fteerforNaiitucket. He has broughi
in goo barrels of whale oil, half his cre\%
down with the scurvy when lie arrived—
having been more than 12 months at sea.
THE Committee for providing reliel
for the sick of this city, have received s
letter from Dr. George Logan, in whicl
he informs them that he has very recentlj
paid a vilit to the hospital at Btilh Hill, anc
found the hoiife perfectly clean, withoui
any offenfive finell : that the sick are wel
accommodated, and every attention givei
to render their lituation easy and comfort
able, by citizens Gerard and H«lme—tha
the viliting physicians are patiently atten
tive to the complaints of each individual o:
the fick—t|ieir practice appeared rational :
anil that he was informed a free and eafj
nfe of blilters had been attended with the
nioft teneticial cffects. Dr. Logan recom
mends it as in indispensable duty, todif
patch persons to the hospital in th« earliefl
Itage of the disorder ; and that the prac
tice of some, in not fending their friends
till they are palt all medical assistance,
has probably been the cause of many deaths
which by a more early attention niighl
have been prevented. On his return from
Bulh-Hill, Doctor Logan met a man con
veying thither, that was breathing his last.
St. Eitf!atius, Augult 30. Capt. Henr)
Ducket in the bark General Orde of Briltol.
who anchored here two days before, pu;
to sea 3 little after 8 o'clock in the evening
of the 12 tii. He had taken the precautior
to (hike all his guns below and to put hi:
vetlel in the belt possible order : the hurri
cane came on so violently that he wasforcec
to cut x'ie cable, and to fcpd before the
wind without a rag of fail about S. S- W,
till 2 o'clock oil Tuesday morning, wher
tlie wind (hifted to the southward : the bart
broached to about 11 o'clock, when Capt
Ducket thought it prudent to cut rfway the
mi?en malt; lhe again broached to abotn
1 o'clock, when pollibly they were upon the
Saba bank, as the sea ran very high and
very uneven ; it was tllen the main top-mas
cap and head of the mainmast were all car
ried away at once, the Ihip became logged
her decks being conltantly full of water
and the sea continuing so eXcessive high thai
it was impossible to bring her to ; at twt
o'clock the wind abated for a few minutes
it then got to the southward and seemed ti
blow with redoubled force ; the (liip wa:
kept before the wind as well as it was pos
sible to do, but became quite unmanageable
111 consequence of the quantity of watfi
with which her decks were always loaded.
About 12 o'clock on Tuesday land Wasdif.
covered right a head and not a quarter of s
mile off, it was not pollible to guide the
Ihip any way so as to (teer clear of it, and
equally to difcovcr if any landing could be
attempted, tho' as a lall resource, Capt.
Ducket ordered the fpritfail to be set, but
it was blown away in 5 minures. In this
extremity, without an alternative, the Ihip
llruckfeveral times, &at laftherdecks fell
in : every one now began to think of saving
himfelf if possible, tho' no one knew or had
any conception of what could be done to
effect it; some jumped overboard, others re
mained with the wreck, all were equally
uncertain of their fate. About 2 oclock,
P. M. ten of the (hip's crew, and among
them Thomas Hawkins, chief mate, found
ihemfelves alive upon land, but not one
could give an account how he got alhorfe,
as the rocks over which they clartibeivd or
were thrown by the fei, were amazingly
high, and inaccessible in ati ordinary time;
the few who were saved were much
bruised.
Of 42 negroes which Capt. Ducket had
brought with him, 13 only were found
alive, and one of them died the next day.
So little of the wreck appeared, that, but
forthefe melancholy circumfiances, itcould
not have been believed that such an acci
dent had happened ; the land proved to be
the foutli fide of" Norman's Iflind (one oi
the Virgin Islands). At a moment before
the mate quitted the fbip he stood hand in
hand by the lide of Capt. Ducket, whose
lalt word was, Hawkins save yourfelf, and
in the ieap he made to difengaje himfelf
Irom the wreck, he fnppofed Capt. Ducket
(till by his fide, till, to his infinite grief, he
found to the contrary, and that his captain
whom lie loved, and whose life was dear
to him as his own, was ;iot to be fonnd,
i>r his body distinguished, the n?xt day,
from the carcases of 30 of his comrades,
who had fallen victims 011 this melancholy
Jccafion.
Frtdet ick-tvwn, Sept. 19. The irial of
Ensign John Morgan is now going 011, ai
head-quarters, General Pofey, president
us the court-martial—Members—Majors,
Thomas Hughs, Thomas Doyle, and John
Mills — Captains—Ford, Porter. Guion,
Peters, Eaton, Jeffers, M. Campbell, B.
Price, and J. Pieue.
Alexandria, .sept. 26. The President
and Dirertofs of the Potowmack company
have juftp*bliflied leveral particulars of in
formation relative to the progress made in
clearing that river. The money expended
[ince their meeting in Augult, 1792, is
11763!. 14s. Virginia currency; the sum
:)ue frohi delinquent fubferibers 84951. 13s.
lod. ; the cash in the hands of the trea
surer amounts to 33871. 18s. 1 id. Before
winter it is experted to complete the locks
and thecanelat the little falls, and clear
!he river between the great and little falls,
"o as to render it navigable to tide-water,
and reduce the land carriage at the great
[alls to about 400 yards. Great advances
have been made the season past in opening
he river towards fort Cumberland, the
month of Cougocheague, &ic. A vafl quan
tity of produce has been brought down the
Potowmack this season ; a part of which as
far as 25 miles.above fort Cumberland. In
:he article of flour, upwards of 15000 bar
rels have been brought down. Great num
bers of mills have been eretted this feafori.
Stockbvidgc, Sept. 17. On the 28 th tilt -
Mr. Silas Chapin, 'of Tyringham, accom
panied bv a boyj being in pv.rfuit of some
itray (heep, discovered a rattlesnake, which
an light of them, fought a retreat between
two rocks. They immediately begun dig
ging, and in a (liort time discovered more
nakes—and at length drew out from the
-ock 110 less than twenty-feven,five of them
nld, the relt young ones. But the molt re
markable circumltance attending the tlanf
irtion, was the discovery oi one fuake witli
:wo proper heads, tws mouths, and four
;yes. The snake has been seen by num-
Ders, and is ftiil kept for the gratiticatior
»f the curious.
New-York, Oifober 3. TheSurveillante
gun French frigate, which has been foi
Tome time refitting, is at length fully read)
For sea, and, we underlfand, is intended tc
:onvey Rear Admiral Cambisto France
:hat he may appear before the Convention
111 order to appease the doubts entcrtainet
of the civifm of the French fleet at prefen
in this harbour, and clear up some myste
rious mattters relative to their conduit a
Cape Francois, during the late diftreliinj
event which took place there. ,
We hear f l*e Surveillante is to be accom
panied to France by the Kormande, a vic
tualling fliip, carrying 24 guns, who take:
a cargo of flour. Itisfuppofed they wil
botli fail in thecourfe of next week.
The committee appointed to prevent th»
introduction and fpieading of the infeftioir
disease in this city have reported that 11c
person in this city, or on the iflandj within
our knowledge, is infected with the disor
der, now prevailing 111 Philadelphia.
The military fame of Louis XIV. re
vives with the tedioufnef«, of the prefeni
cbnteft in Flanders. Not a place there bul
is indebted for fame part of its strength to
him ; and still more the country, whi.cli
160,000 men have aflailed for four months,
with no other advantage than that of tak
ing one town by famine; he entirely con
quered in three months, with an-army ne
ver exceeding forty-feven thoufsnd men !
It is generally supposed that Gafton, who
heads the loyalists 111 Brittany, is an aristo
crat, and a friend to the ancient monarchy.
—The fait is quite otherwise. Gafton is a
friend to freedom fectiredby a limited mo
narchy. He is so fat- from entertaining
principles of despotism, that lie aitfiS to
Hand on popular ground, and reft'fes to
admit the old nobility into his army. Should
Gafton prevail, the confederated nionarchs,
would n«t have great matter >f felicita
tion J the rights and privileges of the Peo
ple would l»e eftablifiied on fticli principles
as were adopted by the firft National Con
vention ; there would be a king, or firft
m;giftratp, under some other name, bul
he would only be the mod honoured servant
ot the public ; the fnpreme authority
would remain with the People.
There seems to be a conffderable degree
of resemblance between the chararter and
situation of Gafton, and thatof the renown
ed Scottiih hero, Wallace, who led on a
party of his countrymen in the paths of true
liberty and glory, 111 spite of the king of
England on the one hand, and a combina
tion of the principal Scottiih nobility on the
other. [London Paper.']
LEGISLATURE of MASSACHUSETTS'
The report t>f the committee of both
houses on the governor's speech, was com
mitted in the bouse who reported a con
currence with the senate. as taken into a
new draft : this new draft relolved, thai
at the time ot the adoption of theconftitu
tion, it was not in the contemplation of
the people to grant a power to the federal
judiciary, by which a state should be com
pellable to answer tothefuitsofindividuals
that it was unneceflary and vexatious, &
might be produflive of dangers to the free
dom and independence ot the states, and
eventually to endanger the federal conlti
tution—that the lenators in this state in
Congress be inftrutfed, and the representa
tives fequefted to use their influence to
procure a speedy alteration and amend
ment ol the constitution ; and that the go
vernor be requested to forward these reso
lutions to the several executives in the U
nited States, to be laid before their several
legillatures, on the quellion of acceptance
ot this report. The yeas and nays were
required, and Hood as follows—j eai 107—
nays, 19.
Address of the National Convention to the
People of France, resetting fallified co
pies of the New Constitution.
THE National Convention is informed,
I'lfi !i?i encm ' es of I'berty have already
tjie conftitutioHal ast, an d are using
every perfidious effort to circulate inprofu
fion copies of it disgraced by lies.
Th* 13 tG discover their intention,
fhey wifli to prevent the people from
knowmg and appreciating the real labours
ot their mandatories. They with to cor
rupt and divide, by anticipation, the public
•pimon-they will, to ftifle that general as,
° the natl T- read y lo burst forth, anct
tv . n e L er / ,a ' ba( ' s of , libe ' ty and equa
lity , they behold only with despair the ap
o^utl^ rt r g !' ° f ( ' ,e law; hasten
•L rr t^f nire,v «. by moral anarchy, with
-onitit.lt- esand misfortunes of which the
-onititutioii is about to deprive them.
"r V W f r and foo| ifii are these corrup
"s P H . bllc '"52(011, who imagine that.
>y obfeunng it for, Tome days, it will never
n?har 'r" ' > the Pe ° ple could be miftakea
n that relpea ; and as if the treft, which
10r y r W ! r e '? :i ? ake their accomplice, will
lot confound them by conveying ,0 the
ntTl thoughts of their Conflitu-
Such attempts of modern aristocracy were
jnknown to the ancients. If the power
Jt printing was wanting to them they
were at least ignorant of its rtimes. They
.ommitted llieir laws only to incorruptible
Srals, or to the pure remembrance of
children : and they did not behold them
slatted 111 their infancy bv that invention
which ought to consecrate and diffufe
them.
It Utherefore anew obligation imposed
an the legislator, to watch over, and as one
may fay, to follow his own work, until it
arrive in full purity at the most diftanc
cottage. It is also a new duty for a revo
lutionary people, who, by the nobJeft
means, are approaching the term of their
regeneration, to guard, with the utmolt
vigilance, against thole base calumniators
ot the conftitutioHal monument—thole IW
cret enemies 01 the nation, why wifti to
annihilate all its rights, and to blast even
its hopes, by breaking the anchor which
the legislators have throwri aniidft the
Itorni.
Among the Athenians the haw inflicted
death on every stranger ivho introduced
himfeli into she popular aftembly, becanfe
he ulurpfttf the sovereignty. Among the
French, become free, let him who fhaU
introduce himlelf into the thoughts of the
legislators, 10 misrepresent the result of
them, fall under the sword of the law.
I he National Convention invites all the
friends of liberty to search out with dili
gence these fabricators offalfe laws. It
recofhmeiulsto all citizens nnt to pass fen
tcnce, not to express their will, but on au
thentic copies, addressed dlreflly by the ex
ecutive council to communes, and the con
stituted authorities.
Frenchmen, yoyr pj»t:iotlfn) tvili eal'ily
defeat those manoeuvres. Every grand
epoth of the revolution has always excited
one crimfc more of aristocracy and royal
ifm. We had reafbri to espktf, that all
their crimes and efforts would be united at
the moment when the constitution was a
bout to appear : but these efforts them
selves will eiifure to Joti the success of {f
work, which thev would have altered,
had it been hurtful to the people ; and in<-
favonrahle to their rights. These impo
tent efforts will conduce to eflablifh the
republican constitution, as calumny has
always conduced to the triumph of Vir
tue.
Decree passed in the National Conventiori
on the firlt of July.
Every person wl)o fl.all cause to be print
ed, fold, or rfiftributed, one or more altered
orfalfified copies of the declaration of tfir
rights of men and citizens, and «f the coti
ftitutional ail, the wording-os which w at
decreed 011 the 24th of June i 793,>and pre
sented afterwards, fev the National Con
vention, for the acceptance of the French
ftople, fliallbe pnuiflied vt it'll dtath,For the National Gazette.
Mr. Freneau,
The following excellent produffion was
written about 50 years ago : it has often
been since re-printed in the Miscellanies of
the day—but at the prefen: awful criils
■will appear with.peculiar propriety.
Your's, &c.
Eusebius.
ON SEEING A SCULL.
preacher, fiknt yet severe,
X Proclaims mortality to man ;
Thou, like this emblem (halt appear,
When time has meafur'd out thy span.
Here once was fix'd the dimpled cheek,
And from this fallow naked crown,
The curling honours, long anil sleek,
Fell light and negligently down.
This part once fortify'd the brain,
The feat of sense in ages fled ;
From whence might flow the raptur'd
(train,
<Or truths, bv {acred science bred.
Here hung the lips that once cou'd smile,
And here Werelix'd the orbs of light;—
Extingilifh'd now, corrupt and vile,
Suffus'd io everlafling night.
Behold ! the locket's empty space
Affrights the yet perceiving eye ;
And spreads pale horror o'er tile face
Of all that live, alas ! to die.
Here yet remain, efcpos'd and bare,
By dull delH'd, of earthy hue,
Those teeth that age vouchfaf'd to fparc.
A ufelexs and a moulJ'ring few !
Gay friend, here hung the lift'ning ear,
That fed the foul with sense, by found :
Her-; the loquacious tongue, aiid here
The noff, on this diilorted wound.
TJiefe all had convsrfe with the foul,
Myllerious work of heav'nly flcill;
Clay join'd to spirit form'd the whole,
And quicken'd dull; obey'd the will.
God call'd the life he lent away,
The dull return'd from whence it came ;
The spirit left the ftifl'ning clay,
And death difl'olv'd the vvotid'ious
frame.
Be witty, mortal, bold and free,
Yet own thy knowledge centers here ;
Ere long thy foalp, like this, (hall be,
Not worth the fordid fcxton's care.
Phis one, perhaps, a statesman's fchemej
Of guilty wealth and power contain'd :
V/herc now are ail his flattering dreams?
And wkof'. the mighty sums he gain'd ?
Perhaps forne former Garricl bore
This scalp aloft with graceful pride,
Ales ! his action charms no more, •
That once new force to wit fupply'd.
Perhaps, with cunning quibbles filld,
'Twas once a lawyer's—arch and dry :
To obviate every claim, tho' fkill'd,
He paid one debt, decreed to die.
Perhaps some haughty Beauty's charms
Adorn'd this bone with white Sc red; —
No more the nymph the world alarms,
The lillies and the roses fled'.
Perhaps a crown these te*mple3 bound.
Before it subject nations bow'd ;
Now undiltinguifh'd, in the ground,
The beggar tramplis on the proud.
What cause.has mortal fiefh to boalt
Of tranfi "nc knowledge, wcauh and
pow'r?
The summons comes, our breath is loft,
And all is nothing in an hour.
All, all mult pais this dreary road
To dull and lilence, cold and gloom ;
All red in one ohture abode.
The dwelling of the world, a totnb.
O Thou wiiofe gift is life ! beilow
Yet moe in virtue an i in truth,
And lead me thro' this vale of woe,
The llalF of the guide of youth ;
Sullain ma in the mortal hour,
i*or then 'tis thine alone to save ;
And let me triumph in thy pow'r,
A joyful victor o'er the grave*
From the Archives of the city of Barra
taria, 1693. —
Pcrfona Dramatis—Satigrado, a phylician
—Fluellen, his coachman—Donald, a
sick patient—Tom Pipkin, footman, Sec
Satigrado—Fluellen ! it is high time we
were packing. Let me fee : Three died
of the contagious fever lad night, within
thr-e doors of me. Seven at the dillance
of lix doors, and a dozen door 3 off, the
lord knows how many have died. It is
time to be packing, I fay !
Eluclle*.—What, mailer do£lor, and
leave the poor lick man, your neighbour,
in dillrefs, who has crawled here no less
than a dozen times, for advice and drugs
for himfelf and his poor family ?
Sangrado.—The sick man and his poor
family mull e'en fhift for themftlves —
Self-prefervation is the firlt law of nature,
Fluelien ; come, run out the old coach;
and fee that Duke and Darby and the
two dray horses are well fed and rubbed
down—we will ride coach and four as well
as the belt of them —[Exit Fluellen.]
(Enter, Donald.)
Donald —Do&or Sangrado, I am your
humble servant. My fam'ily are again tnkei.
ill. Will you be so good as to come down
to fee them—and prescribe something to
gel us all on our feet again ?
Sangrado.—Did I not tell you, Donald,
I would have nothing more to do with
you. I tell you again, you and your fa
mily have all caught the yellow fever ; and
it is death to come near you : You may
as well go home, make your will, and die:
On iny confcieuce, I can do nothing more
for yon, Donald.
Donald—ls that your charity, to un
dertake by the year to keep people on
their legs, and then leave them to go to
the d—l, when your epidemics and malig
nants come among them ?
Sangrado.—lt mull be even so, I think
—However, take this bottle of drugs with
you. In one hour after your
return home, give every one of the sick a
table fpoonful of this mixture in warm
water ; and in twenty-four hours they will
all find the efle&s of it.—."You may also
drink beef tea—Ay, ay, beef-lea in abun.
dance—nothing like beef-tea, Donald.
Donald.— I hank yourhonour : and ean
j I»get more of these fame precious drugs,
I in cafe your honour does not return home
| in due time from the country ?
Sat.grado.—Ay, ay —Jeffe, the (hop
boy at the apothecary's v»ill serve you
\_Exit Donald. ]
[Re-enter Fluellen ]
Fluellen.—The coach is ready, fir ; only
I am sorry to tell you that Darby, the
near (haft horse, is sadly foundered.
Sangrado.—Foundered or not foundered,!
jhe (hail go, that he (hall—he (hall travel
at a bvilk trot, I'll warrant ye—aye, and
40 miles too before funfetting.
Fluellen.—Well, fir, but how is all this
furniiure to be (lowed in the coach. My
lady will not have ro«m to llir leg, foot,
or toe—and Mi£s Sally, Miss Jane, and
Miss Dorothy—God hilp them ! they
might as well be screwed up in a black
| fmitli's vice !
Sangrado.—No matter, Fluellen. It is
better to be screwed up in a coach than in
a coffin. Hand along that hamper of por
ta, you there !—the ten gallon keg of old
Madeira, I em—the cafe of Ratafee for
the ladies—the balket of Chefhirc cheese
—that firkin of rounds of beef, and the
tub of cold neat's tonguej. See that they
are Well secured. Are the trunks ready ;
the small chest of tea-tackling, the table
snd dming tackle, hell !—and where
' B .Margery, the cook-maid, and Dolthe
kitclx - girl ; and the fat lap dog—will
the* tieve: be ready, or is the whole family
to for them and them only ? Are
thole otherfive cheftsweH (lowed and lashed
behind the caach—Tom Pipkin, the foot
mart, fee that you fit on them, and that
none fall off by the way.
hluelien.—All are now (lowed away
inug, Mailer do6tor ; but the young la
dies squeak miferab'y—poor fouls! one
would take them to be in the Spanish
inquisition—young mailer Bobby too, is
too much pinched and squeezed up to tra
vel with any fort of comfort—and as to
the monkey, he is too full of tricks, as
well as too much in the way, to be allowed
a place in the coach. Shall I take up
mailer Bobby and the monkey with me
on the coaefe.box, Do&or Sangrado ?
Sangrado.—No, no, Fluellen. The large
hou'fe deg Touzer mull ricje on the box
with you : he is at present lame, but when
he recovers he may be uteful (11 the coun
try. He'll catch squirrels ti perfection,
I'll warrant ye.
Fluellen.—Zoons fir, may I be spitted
alive for a green goose if I will agree to
any such tiling Why Touzer's eyes are
already as yellow as fdflVon ginger cake,
ol- feed cucumber: ah fir ! only look at
him—the yellow fever!
Sangrado.—Stab my vita's, if the dog
has not a (lrange appearance about the
eyes, He mull e'en ltay at home then,
and take his chance with the refl of the
citizens. I will carry no infecled perfoni
with me not I, faith—drive off without
him ! \ Steps hajllly into the coach.'\
Fluellen (mutters to bimfdf.) " I re
member when I came over lea from my
aear native country, in itormv weather
the captain did rot leave the quarter deck
to ikulic in the cabbin among women and
children. Can aphyfician in good health,
round and found as any in Barrataria, quit
his poll with a clear conscience when the
most cruel of all ltorms is fprcading deso
lation through that devoted c ty for want
of medical assistance—l think not—but
hup! ho! hey! for the country."—[They
drive of.
METEOROLOGICAL OBetf. RfyiTlONS.
September 1793.
D. H\ Barom. < fber t J IVtnd. \KUatber
Tut/day, 24. 7 30. 2 65 1 N.E. jClauds.
- 30. 2 70 [E.N.E\Fair. .
V'tdncj'ay, j 5 7 30. ,5 c, ' N.E. j ChiTdJT
2-1 30. o 63 U Ho. j do.
Tburjday, j6. 71 Z q. i 58 Cloud}.
2Q- 7 79 ! N- Fair.
Friday, Z7. 71 atJ . 7 | 6 4 |N . W.\cleuny.'
I , I N.W. F a ir.
Saturday, zS. 7j 30. 5 54 | N.V(. Fair.
1 ;o- i- 7-i ' it-
Sunday, 25. ? j 30. , j, jj; £ Chudy.
JZ—L 74 'iF-N.E Fair.
Monday, 30. 7 ! 50. 3 J jy ; F^7y~
*i 3 s * 3! 75 I S.W.i/a„.
Extract from the Minutes of the-Synod of
Philadelphia, met at York-town, on the
28th day of August, 1793, and continued
by adjournment.
THE Synod of Philadelphia, taking into
their molt Tenons consideration the very
critical (ituati'on ot" the affairs of these Uni t
ed States, at this events ul period ; the
great degree of iilfenfibiltty in matters of
religion that has prevailed in all ranks cl
men amongit us, notwithflanding the many
great judgments and deliveraiues, which,
as a nation, we have heretofore experi
enced ; she prevalence of infidelity, and
the negleit and opposition di covered by
many with regard to the inltitutions of
chriltianity, and the mediation of our Lord
and Saviour Jesus Christ takingalfo into
view, the alarming and increasing, judg
ments 'of' Gud that are abroad in the eartli,
the convulsions that have taken place in'
Europe, and the probability that our guilty
country nlay be involved in similar calami -
tie*; unanimously agreed, in appointing
rilurfday, the 24th day of October next"
to be obfervea as a day of faffing and pray'
er, by all the churches under their care. -
The Synod molt earneiUy ex.iort and en
join upon per foils of ail ranks in our com
munion, to lay aside on that day their ufiial
bulinefs, and unite in humble and eanieft
fupplicatiuns to the throne of grace, thro'
our divine Mediator, that God would im
press the minds of all with fiich a sense
or" his Majeffy, as the great Governor in
the affairs of men and nations, and of their
obligations to him as their beneficent Pre
fciver and Guardian, as fliall lead them to
glorify HIM in whose hand their breath is,
and \yhofe are all their ways; that he would
inspire our rulers and magidrates ot all
ranks with 3 sacred and pointed regard to
his providence and approbation, and fucli
wisdom to discern, and such resolution to
pursue, the measures that conduce to the
public interest at this critical period, as
may, under the favour of heaven, secure
to these tfates the continuance of the blefl
i'lgs they enjoy that he would prosper
tiie labours ot the hulbandman ; ar.elt the
p.ogrefs of irreligion and immorality ;
grant a gracious elftifion of the Divine
Spirit's influences; restore peace to our
frontiers; protest our commerce; disap
point all wiio may have designs unfavoura
ble to the tranquillity and prosperity of
theie lfates; and make us a wife, a pious
aud <i happy people.
Publilhed by order of the Synod,
Naihaniel Irwin, Moderator.
3t. Samuel VVaugii, Synod Clerk.
EIGHTDOLLARS REWARD.
RAN AWAY on the 20th of June lart, from
the fubferiber living in Caroline County, in
tne itzre ot Maryland, near Choptank Bridee. 3
NEGRO HOY, named Jonathan* about 1
sears of age—he is tree born, but a bound servant
until 21 yeartof ajje—he is tolerably flout and
it rait built, has a yellow call in his Countenance,
talketh tfilh his tongue his teeth, -ha
laige thickfse t, his toes square to the ends bis
mother s nahv* is Lidye, who now lives in lones'
Neck in Delaware ftatt, where the boy has form
ed some acquaintance since he run away. Ant
person taking him up, must ast with the greatest
caution, or he will give them the flip. Whoever
takes up the s a id boy, and secures him so that
the owner may have him again, lhali have the
above reward, by
WILLIAM JACKSON'
P'" 4j '793- jaw6w
To the EUSorsfor the City and County of
fhiladelphia. J
Gentlemen,
I you my sincer e thanks for
all former repeated favors, and solicit a
continuance thereof at the enfuine Elec
tion for the Coroner's ofEce, wiilch will
lay an additional obligation on, and be
grattfuily acknowledged by your nmrh
obliged friend and humble servant
Sept. L^C ° CK > c «"»«r,
To be Sold or Let,
(And of this immediate pofl'tfiisn given.J
i well-built three ltorf new
house, fituat'. on the east fide cf foutk
Fourth-greet, near the indian- Queen, Philadel
phia. , his situation is valuable, being in a.
central part of the city, 3nd convenient to the
banks and public offices. The house is 25 feet
in hont, and, with its offices, extends nearly io»
feet backwards. Jt h as privilege of an alley
4* feet wide* The offices are three stories high,
-ud, together with the house, are built of brick :
chefecontain five apartments, besides a wafli house,
jnd tour ot them have fire places. In the dwell
ing hoafe itfelf, there are nine rooms and eight
nre places ; fix of the rooms are spacious, and all
/afiiionably finifiied. The garrets are ceiled: the
ftair-cale is elegant. There ii a good cellar under
the whole, and in tfye yard a pump.
And to be Sold,
Z3O Acres ofunimproved la;.d,iS miles from the
thriving town 0/ Harrifburg, Peanlylvania. This
tradfc lies in a valley, and is said to be very good
farming land. There are one or more mills near
the nremifes. The river Juniata is about five *
miles distant j whence it is boatable into the Suf
quehanna, and thence to Harrilburg. Also,
A dejirable retreat, or farm, in NewtoWn, the
county town of Bucks, Pennsylvania j contain
ing nearly 1 acres of land, naturally very rich,
! and now highly improved- It is surrounded on all
(ides by public streets or roads j and may, with
j ore fen t advantage, be converted into town lotj
i that would prove of growing importance. There
is 2. commodious trick house upon the premises,
two ftor.es .in height, having four rooms on a
floora entry or paflage throughout, and
i cellar extending under the whole house. It is
well accommodated with out hjufen. About three
acres are occupied by an orchard of the bef* graft
ed Newtown pippins r di/tant from Philadelphia
25 miles ; from Trenton 9 ; from Briiiol j 1 ; and
:s within five miles of the river Delaware. The
Utuauon is extremely healthy 5 the profpeds are
charmingly pitturefyue, and the neighbourhood
jlruros a gfintecl focietv.
Bifida the ab o<ve,
Two corr.tr lots i. the town, of one acre each,
are orleieu tor sale, together with about 16 acres
ot excellent land, half a mile from the town
under the belt culture and improvement. Twu
or three of these acre? are in timber.
Likeictfe ts be Sad,
An ejiimahlt farm of 539 acres, ia the county
ot Che Iter, 39 miles fro<r, Philadelphia : jot, acr-j
Ot which are of the richest botr«,ro. 'Jhe whole
ot this land elljoy s a kind, strong and fertile foil,
IS well watered, and adrniiably adapted to th*
railing of grain and all kAds of (lock ; at ; relent
there are nearly 30 aires of made-meadow, and
20 or 30 more 0! watered meadow mav be n.adn
at plealure : about 200 are luxuriantly cove-ed
Wllh a variety of valuable timber. Upon the
prom leg, there aie a farm houle, barr, &c. a
ntver-f.ilin, ilream.o'f good water, and a molt
productive covering about fix acres :
the fruit of a good and lading quality : the pur
chaler may be accommodated with all or anv part
ottheftockor farming urenfils upon Ilie place.
The position of this farm is importer, lying on
doth lues ..f the main road, and bounced fouth
trly by the road to Philadelphia through Dow*,
rng-toivn whence it is diftanc 12 ot 13 miles :
On the aoith it isboundtd by the road to Warwick
1- umace, situate bur a lew miles dilfant. At this
point, the premises enjoy a capital tUnd both for
-a (lore and tavern, and alio an eligible fi.uation
tor a village, which would here have foms
commanding advantages, and might be an object
to any gentlemen witliin; to found an exienfue.
and profitable ftttleme/it. On the one fide, it
h.is a dircft communication with Duwnirg's
town j and with the rich and populous fettleinenc
Ot ConcttoKO valley on the other, both lying with
in a /hort ride of the place. There is already a
market here for produce at the Philadelphia prices
—the neighbouring iion-works creating a conftanc
demand. Plenty of good limeflonem.iy be had
Within 5 miles of the premise?, ana a r\g-b! to
make ule of it will be conveyed by ihe pioprie
tor it required, in Hiort-t'iU farm asierve. the
attention of any person or perlons inclined to
avail themselves of advantages such as ti.ofe ic
pufleljes.
The title to the several pc<'mj&s are iodLfputa
' and thc proprietor a., ;l warrant to defer,4
' them. The terms bf faie, for all 01 any of the
lands, will be made attnmtitaii'arini: to the nurcha
lers For farther particulars, apply to the fub
leubcr, a.t No. 6, south Fourt i-<ti-e:, or at hi
llore, the corner or M„i:..-t and Tiiiid-flieets
Philadephia.
ROSESfT SMOCK.
Aa S- ,0 - la. vv. t. f.
JUST PUBLISHED,
Ant! to be fold by T homas D«ii.oN. Wit -
Li AM Young, Robert Campbell,
Meiii's. Rice and Co. and JuaNM*
Cut.loch, No. i. North Thirc-ftrecr,
A.N EXAMINATION of the late pro'-
... . c^ e '" n 2 s Congress respecting the
ol" ci a J condua of tiie Secretiry of the
I reafury; with Observations, &c. on the
application of loans from Holland, neooci
ated under the acts of th« 4th and 12th of
Augult 1790. —Tiie price of the above
pamphlet is three sixteenths of a doliar, or
is 4 d. .1-2. April 24. 2aw tf
* nuthor requests his readers to
nam 6 ht "'t followin £ KRRATA ill tiie
pamphlet above mentioned Page j.
rn!r ~- d ' P ara g'' a pli, lor Coalit.on read
Colt,Jiofi.—-Pag t z; . line rl _ 3t) _ par _
inltead of Bank direiUn , VJ d "Swck
liolclers. 77
PRINTED BY
CHI LD S and S WAINE,
AT T»«l* .rncx NO: 209,
FJFTB.MMEr,On rr, efMr. Duer, of New-Yjrk
conded b' Mr. Barrill, of Massachusetts,
Refolded, that a committee of seven, be ap
pointed to report laws, ordinances
and regulations as lhall seem necefi'ary and con
venient for the government of the corporation,
and that they make fucn report at the next
meeting.
The members chosen were, Mr. Duer, of
New-York, Mr. Bingham, of Philadelphia,
Mr. Low, of New-York, Mr. M'Connel, ot
Philadelphia, Mr. Smith, of South-Carolin3,
Mr. Mason, of Ma(T«chufetts, and Mr. Watts,
of New-York.
Revived, That when the said committee are
agreed upon their report, they have the fame
printed for the use of the (tockholders.
Adjourned to Monday evening next at fix
o'clock.
By order of the meeting,
THOMAS WILLINC, chairman.
Attest. Edward Fox, Sec'ry.
Y.xtrafl of a letter from Holland, dated Aug. zo.
" Notwithstanding what may be supposed the
ardent desire of the Emptefs of Rulfia, it
not appear that under her auspices the Rufliai:
armies will ever becjmc conquerors of Conlhin
tinople, as threaten-d. On the contrary, then
is every profpecft of a speed« peace tat in/> place
between the Aulirians, Ruliians,and Ottomans.
The hopes of a counterrevolution in France art
more and moreon thedecline, and although thi
King of Sardinia is making immense waiMkr
preparations in favour of supporting the atifto
cratic exiles from France, and restoring the cK
despotic government, the Emperor of German;
has declined giving them any effe&ual afiiftance,
It may reasonably be concluded therefore, tha
the powers of Europe will either not intermeddli
at all in the affairs of France, or if they do
It will be by a negociation rather than by violen
measures."
Jt having been fuggefttd to the Editor oj
the National Gazette that IVednejdays and Sa
turdays are the mijl frequent days of
publications in this capital, he las cn that actoun
varied a little from bis original flan, andchanfa
his days ofpublijbing to Monday and Thuifdav,
Poetical Addkess to the Public of the
United States.
THIS age is so fertile of mighty events
That people complain, with some reason
no doubt j
Besides the time loft, and besides the expence,
With reading the papers they're fairly worn out:
The paji is no longer an object of care,
The prejent consumes all the time they car
spare.—
Thus the reader, but still he on,
With his pence and his paper unwiiling to part,
" i'ees the world pa (Ting, men going and fc vnc,
uj vine riding in coaches, and some in a cart :
For a peep at .the faice a Jubfcrlption he'li
g"< ve i
Pvcvolutions must happen—that Printers ma)
live.
~cr a {hare of your favor we aim with the reft —
To enliven the scene we'll exert all our /kill j
Whit we have to impart lLall be some of the
best,
And Multua in Parvo our text—if >ou will :
Since we never admitted aclaufe in our Creec
That the greatest employment ot lite h —
to read.
The King of the French, and the Queen of the
North
At the head of the play for the season we fin J :
From the spark that we kindled a flame ha:
gone forth
To expand thro* the world and enlighten man
kind :
With a code of new do&rines the univerft
rings,
And Tbvmui is preaching strange lermons tc
kings.
Thus launched as we are on the ocean of news.
In hopes that your plealureour pains will repay.
All honest endeavours the author will use
To furniih a feaft for the grave and the gay j
At least he'll eflay such a track to purlue
That the world (hall approve—and his news
(hall be true.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE
The following lines, inferibed under the Bufl
of Voltaire, at Paris, have already appeared in
the General Advertiser. A ParaphrafticalEngliil:
translation is now added for the more general
fatisfaftion of the reader.
JADIS dans Athenes et Rome
11 falloit pour chaque grand hommc
Cifeler un marbre nouvcau :
Ici, Partifte pfus habile
Sous son magique cifeau,
A fait revivre en ce morceau
Sophocle, Tacite, et Virgile.
[translated.]
Athens and Rome in ancient days, we find
For each gieat man a splendid Bust design d,
And, proud mark of public praise to give.
Bade in the breathing stone their favourites live :
Here, anew genius to our wondering eyes
With magic touch a nobler form fupplirs }
For, in the image art has copied here 1
Virgil and Sophocles at once appear, %
H.re Tacitus, the chifiel*s art restores— .
Thus, three great men in one the world adores.
It is a glorious sentiment, " That
the people who have rcfoLvtl to be
free have always been victoriousl he
experience of Switzerland, Holland,
and the United States, vouch for the
£a&.
MEMBERS of the SECOND CONCF.tSS.
Members of tic Sk n a Tr.
New-liamp/hire, Delaware•
John Langdon, Richard BalTert,
Pain Wiwgate. George Read.
Mafj'acbujettii Mary and,
Caleb Strong, J 0 ' 1 " Henry,
George Cabott. Cliaries Carrol!.
Rbode-IJland. Virginia.
Theodore Foster, Richard Henry Lee,
fofeph Stanton. J..mei Mu'nrot.
ConncElicut* North-Carolina.
loger Sherman, Samuel Johrilton,
Dliver Elfworth. Benjamin Hawkins.
New-York. South-Carolina,
lufus King, Pierce Butler,
varon Burr. Ralph Izard.
New-Jersey, Georgia,
Miilemon Dickinfon, William Few,
[ohn Rutherford. James Gunn.
Pennjylvania. Vermont,
Robert Morris. ,
Members of the House of Representa
tives.
New. Ha mp/hire, Delaware.
'annuel Livermore, Jo < V't.
>1 Scholar Gil man, y»'<
eremiah Smirlv*. Jofhvja Seney,
Majfacbujuss, Samuel Stcrrrft^
; ifher A:ncs, Upton Sheredi/.-.
i I bridge Gerry, 1 -j.i'ip Key,*
'enjamin Goodhue, William Vans Murray
Theodore Sedgwick, Virginia,
George Thatcher, John Brown,
&r tern as Ward,* William B. Gile
ihearjafliuh Bourne.* Samuel G'iffin,
Rbode-IJland, Richard Bland lee,
Benjamin Bourne. James Madison,
Connecticut, Andrew Moore,
f. Trumbull, speaker, John P«ge,
/eremiah Wadfworth, Alexander Wh-'->
fames A. Hillhouie,* JoHah Parker,
[onathan Sturges, Abiaham Verable.*
Vmafa Lamed.* North-Cm ohra.
New York, Baptiii Alhe,
[ohn Lawrance, J°hn Steele, '
Egbert Benfon, Hugh Williamfon,
s eter Silvester, * Wil«v»m B. Groves, *
|ames Gordon,* Nuti'Jniel Macon.*
rh'. nv*« T/.-J . 1J 7 * South-Carolina,
1. C. Schoonmaker.* Danie Hi gefj
New-Jetjcy. William SmiG),
\braham Clark,* Tilomas Sunitter,
Jonathan Dayton,* Thomas T. Tucker,
iiias Boodinot, Robert i rnwell*
laron Kitchell.* Georgia,
Pennfyl-vania, Abraham Lulcwin,
: . A. Muhlenberg, Fra cis Viiii-.,*
rhor.iai Fitzfimons, Anthony W n e ,*
Daniel Heifter, Vtrn. nt.
frael Jacobs,* Nathaniel Niks,*
■ ohn W. Kittera,* Smiih.*
Thomas Hartley, Kentucky amct into thy
-Vjlliam Findley.* unioi: in June, 1792.
Tbojc with this * mark were net members Oj
beJirJi Congrejs•
Intelligence received by Capt, Fraz,ier i ivbt arriv
ed at Bojioiip in 35 days J;om Lundon,
P A R J S.
National Assembly. S f.
A proposed decree was read by M. Bcametz
elative to the presentation of the Confti tutiona
2hart to the King, and refpeflng liberty
vhich it is necefl'ary togrant to the Moi aith, am
he forms and ceremonies which aie to.be obierv
d on this occasion.
Bef.-re he read his decree, the orator made .
ong speech which abounded much lefj \ irh ar
;ument and found eloquence, than with higl
bunding bombast. The nation, (fays ne) ex
tfperated at the rifles which you have run, an<
"atisfied with.your conduct, awaked .ike a fo<.e'
eign—(he stretched out her arms and all he
langers vanished.
He then read, as spokesman tor the Commit
ees cf Conilicution and Revilion, the 0 lowin,
irticics.
Art. I. (t A deputation (hall be appointed t
>resent the constitutional a£t to the King to
lis acceptance.
2. " The King fliall be requeued to give fuel
►rders as he lhall think necellary, respecting h:
;uards and the dignity of his pei son.
3. (i If the King accede to the wifhi of rh
r rench nation, by accei ling the conflict ion h
hall be requeued to name day, md M men
ion the forms to be oblcrvea at thi tin e ; iat h
hall solemnly pronounce in ptelence 01 c>z Na
ional A (Terribly, his accepuon of Cor.ilitutionj
Royalty, and his engagement to th
luties attached to it."
September 5.
'rejentation of the Ccnjfitution to the Kit -\ so
bis acceptance. •
The Grand Constitutional Chart lb 21
ini/hed, and wa 3 on Saturday last pitfc."ed t
he King j who received it with a coununanc
n which much outward fatisfadlion was dej dtd
The members met in the hall of the Af-'embl
it fix o'clock in the evening, but it was half
>ast eight before every thing was ready.
M. Vernier, the Preside.it, then inti natcd
hat he had waited on the King, and ann .unce
heir intentions, and that his Majesty wa read
0 receive them.
On this the deputation moved on towaids thi
>alace ofthe Thuilleries, between a double rov
f national guards, flambeaux preceding, IgUow
n?, and accompanying them, and marti .1 mu
ic frriking up and continuing during the rocef
ion.
[Here folicivs a liji of the members emp werec
■y the yljjej}:biy i to prejent the new ConJlit„ *\on t
Liu is XVI.]
Having arrived at the palace, the deputaticr
vere immediately ulbo-ed into the Grand «.oun
:.l chamber, and introduced to the King, whe
vas leated on a throne, surrounded by his Mi
lifteis, and a great number of other per.': ns ol
jitlinflion.
M. Thau ret then advanced, and fy-ke s sol
lows:
" The representatives of the nation now pre
i'ent to-your Majesty the- Gon.'tirutional A&,
which consecrates the imp.refcriptible rights, of
th? FrerCh nation; which gives to the throne
its true dignity, anil which organizes the govern
ment of the empire."
The King instantly replied :
" 1 now receive the Conftifution prcfented to
me by the National Affemblv. I mall inform
them of my refolutiun, after the fhortetl pofiiole
delay which the examination of such an impor
tant objedt demands.
" ] am refolvcd to remain in Paris ; I.shall
ve the nectfiary orders to the Coin nfi and an'
Genera! of the nationalPariiian troopsrefpefling
my guards."
The deputation having received this anfwc;-,
jnd M. Thouret having asked and obtained .1
copy of it in writing, for the fatisfa&ion o; the-
Assembly, they instantly returned with the fam.
ceremony that they had set out.
Yefterdav the Thuilleries were openeo, nllth
centinels potted to prevent th'c entrance ofitrAn
jjers being removed.
A prodigious crowd of citizen? laving go*;<
:o the chapel during the morning th"
:ntrance of the FCing and to hear mal; .
I number of voices exclaimed, VWe la Nation !
Vive la Confutation !
HisMwho was taken unawares, bein.
jr.ao!<? to hide :.is emoiion at this circumstance
N-rft into teats. On this the audience cr.e-i out
Vive fa Kci ! Vive fa Liberty! One perfjn i;
>artiru!ar pronounced a loud and diflind
■oice, Vive le Premier tßoi ConfUtutional de
? rancois !
LONDON, Sept. 6.
Declaration of the Emperor, in eorjunSlioi
with the Courts of Berlin, London, Mad
rid, Turin, Naples and Peterjburgh.
" The underiigned are ordered b\
heir relpe&ive iovereigns to ihaki
cnown the following :
" That notwithstanding the glaring
orce and violence which both preced
d and succeeded the atts of confen
Irawn from the King of France to th(
lecrees of the National Assembly, ye
hey had with-held their opinions a:
i) the free will of his Christian Majef
y in the confentabove mentioned, bui
hat the attempt madeby that Monarcl
o obtain his freedom was an undoubt
:d proof that both his religion and hi;
■vill, had been violently forced, anc
hat the formal arresting of the King
Jueen, Dauphin and Madame Eliza
icth. occalions grounded anxiety as u
he further views of the oppofmg party
"That the before named Sovereign
ran no longer forbear theii
celings, and declaring the resolution!
.vinLii ihc> have been muueed to
n the present situation of affairs, anc
.vhich the honour of their crowns, the
ies of friendfhip, and the earnest willi
or the good order and peace of Eu
ope, require of them, and they have
:harged the underiigned Minillers tc
declare in theirnames,
"iff. Th py look upon the caui'e
as the King 0.. Frjnce as their own ;
:hat they require thift that Prince and
Iris family be linmediately set at liberty,
md free to gp where they plcafe, and
to restore to his Majesty that sacred
honour and submission due from a peo
ple to their Sovereign by all laws ol
nature and civil society.
" 2dly, That the Sovereigns will
unite to oppose and revenge any fur
ther attempts against the security of the
persons, or the honor of the King.
Queen, and any of the Royal Family.
"Sdly, That they will not acknow
ledge any other constitution as legal in
France but what has the unequivocal
approbation of the king, given when
he is at full liberty to a£t as he plcafes.
" 4thly, And if no such legal conlli
tution is fettled, they will jointly use
every means 10 put an end to that spi
rit of anarchy and confufion so contra
ry to the regularity and good crdei
which it is the duty of all governments
to cherish and support."
[Signed by the different Ministers.]
HARTFORD, Od. 24.
Lad Wednesday, after a full debate,
the House of Reprcfentativcs repealcc
the Certificate Law, palled la ft. Ma v.
by a large majority of votes. The fate
of the bill in the Council was doubt
ful.
Applications arc making to the Lc
giflature for a purchase of the Wefterr
Lands belonging to the State, so thai
the State may now reap fume bcr.e'r:
from them. is feared that the
fame mad policy, which has hitherto
prevented the sale of them, will govern
the legislature ; and that under pre
tence of holding them till they rift in
value, they will be held till the'ra-re
for fpcculatioii is over, till the rnonied
men havi -Iled ,in , ....
lands or CTprize-.,
defignin; n will
nity of p hdfing th:
N. E -YO R \ ,
By ordi Sir Jihn
his £ nnicMajefiy \
era! 3 u 6 hout th ,
or America :
INFORMATION ' , hv
for the government c
commanders of .Briti.h . ,
may arrive at the pom , ■, ,j
United States, that an ait - 1 iia
ment of the eleventh ani twelfth
William the third [made ,> ;ji ■
tht ast of the 9th of Georg the . :}'•
cna fts, " that if any mast. of , n
cha'it ffiip, (hall, during 1..$ bci;; 1
bfo;d, force any. man on fh. 1 or w;
fu.lV leave ljim behind, in at.jj of Ms
Ma^fty' s phntations, or elfezvhtrt, /
t>sinj thereof legally convicted,
threi months imprisonment, vitho
bail 0 main;:rife."
c ■ ?hho's-Town, Oft. 1
v \i 'fier expedition, under
cv.mi* General Chfl
£" ot: rendezvous at George"
' ,JW 5 ill) 011 Thurfdiy the
d. -•*! >er jaff 'th 30 days
proVmon, 11».0 • jinit. the
'.'ommt r en;.' y. fh , of this
cxpeditir i'not > . v,,, by the
general gcrcrnsi at, ur.ic A ices
fhouldbe undered, which, in thr eye
of Congress. nay be thought defervin?
of fomc compci/ation.
Welearnbyfome travellers who ar
rived in this fawn a few da Y s iince
from Wheeling that the weftem army
moved from hcid-quarters at Licking,
an the 15th in(f .nt, on their way to the
Indian coun' y,ierefore'vemavfhort
ly expe£l iterelling infoimation
from that cjnarte
T BE SOLD, BY
JOHNCAREY,
No . i Jnion-Street,
A CDIIUCTION OF
Zcarc-: end Valuable
BOOK S,
Which may befeen tverday, until e.c'chck p.m»
Among the-iti art-the following :
Folio. Homer, ».n;}hon, Plato, Plutarch,
F.ukbius, Soaoruen, i ttudoret, Virgil, Horace,
Livy, Tacitus, Pa;en.u.us, Pliny, Concordant
ia Lat. Concord antia Gr. Thesaurus Ciceronis,
Biblia Junii ft Tre.meil i, Bible de Martin,
Wells's Maps, Scapula—Phjvorini—Martini;—•
Hoflmanni L;xica, Voffii Etytnologi in, And
juit. Ecclef. Britannicse, See.
Pindar, Cyropatfia, Be;itl/':s H.i
ace, Terence and Phaeirus, O id, Jn-venal,
Vlanilius, Ciceronis op. om. Csefar, Suetonius,
lulius Pollux, Hederici Lexicon, Voffii '•.s
Jram. Cluverii Geographia, Jullinian Code, i c.
OSavo tt infra. Homer, Anacreon, Ai fto
h lies, Longinus, Thcophraftus, Hefiod, Pi ax
nisores Gr. liberates, Phalaris, •various edit. ■
/ Horace, Virgil, Terence, and Ovid, Tibnllus,
J lautus, Lucan, Martial, Claudian, Val. Flac
us, Aufnnius, Buchanan, Salluft, Curtius,
"lorus, Jultin, Val. Maximus, A, Gellius v
August. Scriptpres, Englijb and French
Translations ot" forne of the Clalflcs, a great va
iety of Greek and Latin Grammars. &c. &c.
td 3 Catalogues may be had of Meflrs. Rice &
-0. Booksellers, Market-ftrect, or of
JOHN CAREY.
Oft. 31.
This day is Published,
By CHILDS and SWAINE,
In one Volume O&avo ;
Price Or.z D-har ar.d a ba/f 9 the final] Edition,
and One Dollar and three quarters the large* 1
THE
LAWS cf the United S~. - zs.
Collated with, and correfled by theor:g, 1S ."Hells
in the Office of the Secretary of State.
With a copious INDEX . or
\ complete DIGEST of the LAWS ,
(Making 56 pages:)
ExecuteJ by an eminent Law Charafler.
To obtain this ufetul and neceifary Part of th'
Work complete, has retarded the Piblica'ir-7
This Volume comprizes the Alls of ti -
of the fir ft CtngrtJ,; m, th
■cnftitutien, and the Trea'ies between t:
!a tcs and Foreign Nations-~Togetbcr <wi\ ■ 7
ie.-.Jix, containing the Declaration of .'
'»«, and sundry Ordinances ar.d Refol- ,
W r '^ er lDe Confederation.
Sold by Cbilcls and S-waine, No
i"/' ' l r U »*' MS", 7'f'tb t>:.
Rc-.r; Canpbtll, Pbiladt.fbia.
Printed by CHILDS ar »
at their Office, No. 239, 1,, .' ;o .
between Sixth and S S
Philadelphia.