By P. FRE NE A U: (at No. 209, Market Street) Publijhed Wedkesdats arid Saturdays, [Three Dollars per annum.]
Numb. 92 of Vol. ll.] *S'. A T U R D A Y, September 14, 1793.
jit a Meeting of a number of Farmers at
the house of Citizen Levering, on Saturday
lafl, the following Remonflrance was agreed
upon, to be presented to the LegiJ'aiurs oj
this Commonwealth.
To the House of Representatives
of the State of Pennsylvania.
The Remonflrance of the Yeomanry, anil
others, Citizens of Pennsylvania,
RefpeUully Jheweth, Tb it
IT is declared by the Constitution of our
country,that" the citizens have right in
a peaceable unnner to aflemble together
for their common good, and to apply to
those inverted with the power of govern
ment for redreTs of grievances, or other
purposes, by petition, address, or remoii
ftrance." Supported by this authority,
and as free citizens of an independent Com
monwealth, we consider that the right of
giving our opiuion on public measures, is
iufficient to impose on us the duty of call
ing your attention to several laws, by
which a few \vealthy and powerful citizens
liave been embodied, and are authorized tc
dig Canals and make Turnpike Roads for
their private emolument, to the de!tru£ti
on of public and private property. Shoule
those laws not be repealed, but become
precedents to (imilar laws, the liberties ol
the people will be deftroyefl by incorpo
rated companies enjoying partial and dan
gerous privileges.
We consider that Under every legal go
vernment, whether the foveifeign powet
is exercised by a king, by an ariitocracy,
or by a popular afiembly, the People are
entitled to be prote£ted in their lives and
properties. The social compart ensures
those rights, and at the fame time eftablifhe:
a perfect equality among citizens, that a!
all lay themselves under the fame obli
gations, and make the fame Sacrifices t«
society, all ought to enjoy the fame pri
vilfges. Laws made contrary to these
fundamental principles, are made in vio
lation of that duty which the Legislature
owes to the People, and therefore mull be
regarded as arbitrary and unjult. A natior
is obliged to preserve everyone of its mem
bers. The nation owes this to itfelf, flncc
the loss even of one of its members weak
ens it, and is injurious to its own preserv
ation. Those who comjtofe a nation are
united for tneir defence and conimon ad
vantage, and none can be justly deprivec
of the protection of the union, or of the
advantages which flow from it, whilst he
a£ts the part of » good citizen. If the go
vernment has a right to take one acre oj
the property of the farmer, Without hi:
content, and bellow it for the advantage
of a privileged company of citizens, it ha:
the fame right to deprive him of his whole
farm. In whatever country, or undei
whatever form of government filch an a
buse of power is exercised, there can onl]
exist matters and Haves—The theory o:
such a government is falfehood and mock
ery—the practice is oppreflion. Nothing
appears more absurd, than to esteem anj
ait right andjuft, merely becaule it has the
fanftion of the legislature. If our right:
have no other foundation, they are as inse
cure as under the ilioft despotic monarchy.
What encouragement to agricultural im
provements, if the property of the farmel
is at any time at the zbfolute disposal ol
others?—if that power which, when re
ftraiaed within its just bounds; would dis
pense light and heat to the whole country,
may be employed like a devouring flame
to destroy ? It is a matter of the firft im
portance to a free commonwealth, to have
the powers of the legislature defined with
preiiifion. We do not thifik it neceflary to
enquire into the extent of this power.
The history of governments will furnifh
nothing Satisfactory on this fubjeft. In the
disputes between Sovereigns and the
people, recourse is commonly had to histo
ry, to seek in the decilions and in the an
cient cultoms of nations, examples or facts
to regulate the judgment, but these histo
ries, often dictated by fear or flattery, ex
hibit little more than the most horrid a
buses and opprellions on the part of the So
vereigns, and the too ineffeflual druggies
of the people to preserve their liberties.
There does not exist a country in which
she just limits of the Sovereign and the
rights of the people have been preserved.
But it is not to the customs, to the exam
ples, nor even to the eoncsflions of other
nations, to which we appeal 011 the present
question ; it is to the unalienable rights of
rtje people, i: is to veafon, it ii to justice, it
is to the enlightened understanding of th«
representatives of a fret people,
We observe with great anxiety, wealthj
incorporated companies taking poffeflion ol
public and private property. The outrages
c*mn!itted by those privileged orders, have
already occaiioned several hundred of dur
fellow citizens to appeal to the legislature
;or redress. The inequality introduced
by ftich eitabli(hments,muft deltroy the liber,
ties of our country. No obfervationjs bet
ter fup()orted,than this that, a country can
'ot long prefcrve its liberty, where a great
nequality of property takes place. Is it not
lerefore the molt dangerous policy fn this
nfant republic, to combine the wealthy in
irder to mike them powerful ? Whilst we
contend foi - an equality of rights, we have
no idea of the juliice of an equal divilion of
property. We know tliat a difference will
always take place in society, .according to
the pbyfical and acquired abilities of its
members, and this inequality so far from
Deing a source of evil, is the true basis of
jublic prosperity ; it invites the members
if the fame society mutually to aliilV each
Jther, according to their various abilities.
This mutual exchange of good offices is
leftroyed, and the commonwealth endan
gered, whenever by arbitrary and partial
aws, a few men are incorporated, and
made fufficiently powerful by privileges
ind wealth, to purchase, or to deitroy, the
and rights of their fellow citizens.
Influenced by these principles, and en
gaged in an'occupation, not only necessary
:o the existence of our country, but which
.Ve know to be produ£tive in proportion
o the liberty, independence and security
>f the farmer, we trull that the legifla
ure will neither think our requell unrea
onable or Unjult, when we pray to have
liofe obnoxious laws repealed, by the au
:hority of which, companies have been in-'
:orpoi ated to dig canals and make turnpike
roads, to the Injury of public and private
iropcrty. An Set of this kind, howerer it
night be censured by a few interested in
lividtials, would not only be consistent
with the ftri&eli principles of jilltice, but
:ouliftent with the ftri&eft principles sup-
Jorted by precedent. Vattel observes that
he prince or superior of the society, what
/er he is, being naturally no more than
he adminillrator, and not the propri
etor of the llate, his authority as fo
reign or head of tbejiation, does not of
tfelf give him a right to alienate or dispose
if the public property. The general rule
.hen is, that the superior cannot dispose of
be public property as to its fubltance. It
:he superior makes use of this property,
he alienation he makes of it will be inva
lid, and may at any time be revoked by his
"ucceffor, or by the nation. This is the
aw commonly received in France, and i>
ivas upon this principle that the duke of
Sully advised Henry IV to resume the pof
:'eflion of all the domains of the crown,
alienated by his predeteflors. The records
of the legiflatureof our own country afford
an honorable instance of fubllantial jiillice
in the reltoratioi) of private property ta
ken from its owners by law. On the me
morial of Dr. William Smith and others,
trustees of the college, acadeniy, and cha
ritable fchcol of Philadelphia, a law was
enacted by which the former law was re
pealed, and the property restored to the
owners.
ExlraEl from the Log Book of the brir
SALOME,Capt.Hugh Wajfonfhatfailca
from Havre de Grace the 2d. of Jfunt
laji, bound to Philadelphia.
"QN Sunday, June 2d. failed from Ha
vre de Grace. Nothing remarka
ble except occurrences of wind and wea
ther, till Wednesday June 19th, when at 6
A. M. saw a (hip Handing to the westward,
carrying a heavy press of fail. At IP. M.
having neared us, and firing a gun, we took
in oar studding fails, top-gallant-fails, and
llay-fails. At one quarter pall 1 the (hip
rounded to, & gave us a Ihopt. We then
rounded tp in like manner, and hove a
back the main top fail, when (he came up,
ind hailed us, From whence we came ? It
was answered, From Havre de Grace and
sound to Philadelphia. He then ordered
js to hoist out our boat and come on board
if him. Answered, by the captain, that
lie had no small boat on board, and that
the long boat was very heavy, and so full
of sundry goods that he could nor, pofiibly,
hoi it her nut. Upon that, they got out
their own baat and came 011 board with
an officer and fix handij. The ship then
(hot ahead of us; then luffed up till her
fails werf aback, and dropped along fide.
So unskilfully did they manage matters that
we expected her every moment to be on
board of us. Her spanker topinlift caught
our ftarbord topmast studding fail boom,
and carried away both fore yard haufe and
and studding fail boom. By this time the
boat came on board, with one officer and
fix men, as before mentioned. The offi
cer ordered captain Waffori to Ihow his
papers; which he did. He then ordered
him to get in.o the boat and go'on board
the ship. This was also complied with.
Daring the <aptain's absence, the officer
and two hands were left on board, whom
the officer ordered to go below in the hold,
and make a search. They soon returned,
faying "it was so d—d full, they could fee
nothing." At 4 in the afternoon the captair
returned on board, with a prize mailer
and fix men, with orders to conduct the
brig into Liverpool, as a prize. At 5 P. M.
the Egglifh boat returned on board theii
Ihlp, not forgetting to lteal two loaves oi
Pngar and two fniall pigs: we begged
them not to rob the brig of her stores.
They handed up the two pigs, and faic
ihey had nothing e|fe. They were ther
3efireJ ta reftorethe loaves of sugar thej
jad Uolen—Anfwered. 11 You lie, you for
if a b—ch ; if I had you here, I woulc
knock your life out of you."—They ther
landed up one loaf of sugar, and said the)
lad no more ; and so went off, with the
brig's Itores.—At 6 in the evening the boal
jgain came 011 board : they then searched
:he pa&engers' trunks for warlike arms ;
ound one or two cutlafles, and two 01
hree pair of pistols, which were willingl)
;iven up them. The boat was nowdif
latched again to the armed Ihip for hant
ind When lhe returne3, ad
irrllinf, capt. Waffon, they said, "Capt,
?ou must luffer yourfelf and your mate tc
ieputin irons!" Captain Waffon anfwer
?d, " just as yon please." They, howe
ver. thought better of the matter, and faic
10 more to capt. Waffon about his
nto irons. At this time there was a fail
n fight, when they hailed the boat to come
in board the fliip; they then took off
rom the brig, one cord of wood, one do-
Si 1 of tpwU, two cutlasses, two small
words, three sword-canes, two pair of
iocket pistols, not forgetting to steal two
liore pig 3, and to heave a close-stool over
board that was for passengers' use. The
:ane-fwords, pistols, and other swords be
jonged to the paflengers .N.B. The second
ieiiteii.mt was the officer of the boat, and
eeing him, when leaving the brig, wish a
pig in his hand, I said, 44 Don't take away
our pigs."—" D—n them, replied he, why
[hould we let the b—s have theiri ?—That
however, was not the last boat that came
011 board. At 10 P. M. the Ihip tacked
to the southward in chace 6f a fail that
was to wind ward, and left us under or
ders to proceed towards Liverpool, as un
der suspicion of having French property on
board.
We continued standing to the eastward
till Sunday, June 23d. under convoy of the
privateer, making towards the port of Li
verpool. At three P. M. on this day, saw
i ship bearing down towards us. At 6 (he
poke us; bidding the prize master to ast
with thegreateft precaution, an<l telling
lim that was a prize that was following
iim; the captain of the ship then hailed
iur prize master, and allied him how he
ared ? the prize master answered, "he
-ould not wilh for better." The captain
if the Eftglifli veflel answered, "I am ve-
T happy to hear it." At the fame time
liere were two fail in fight standing fouth
>vfeftwar«l. He said that he would go and
ee what they were. In a short tifne one
it those veflels got a stern of us,then wore
ind flood for us, and in a little time spoke
.is ; he asked hs from whence tt'e came ?
The prize master answered him, "from
Philadelphia, and bound to Havre de Grace
—What are you loaded with ? Anjwcr,
Sour—"What Ihip is that a head of you?
Aijvier, a Liverpool privateer of two and
tweuty guns.—"Where is flie bound to?
Anjwer. to Liverpool.—The people 011
board of the French ship (as she proved tc
be)'called out, a prize ! a prize ! —then or
dered us t« wear and stand to the west
ward, and said he would hoist out hi:
boat for the captain and the privateerfmei
to cotr.e 011 board of him.
The boat having come along fide, capt
Waflbn and some of the Knglifh privateerf
men went on hoard of him, leaving onlj
two officers & five of their men in the brig.
At 10 P. M. captain Waffon returned on
board with orders to proceed on his paf
lage towards Philadelphia, and take lour
ol the •jjie pas-
Numb. 196,]
fengers in the brig were pver joyed at this
fortunate release, gave the French fliip
three cheers, and we then made fail. Dur
ing this time the Liverpool privateer made
all poflible fail to get off. The French
privateer, that released lis, was called the
Republican. [The Salome arrived at
Philadelphia on Friday Sept. 6th.]
ADDRESS
To certain holders of Public Securities.
[From the (Boston) INDEPENDENT
CHRONICLE of September 5.
TT is suggested, (with how much propri
ety I will not pretend to fay,) thatJome
individuals, who are largely concerned in
the public flocks of the United State*
(peak very indifferently with refpefl to the
republic of France—write against the nati
onal proceedings with acrimony— treat the
miniiter of that nation with difrelpect
and in all their conduct seem disposed to
favour the Brjttjh, in preference So the
French.
To this class of people this address is par.
ticularly dedicated, and as I mean to ar
gue as it aftecls their interest, they mud
excuse the plainneU of the cominunica
tion.
In the firft place, gentlemen, please t®
recollect what nation in Europe enabled
the people of this country to vindicate their
"S a j nlt tlle "furpations of Britain,
and a lifted them to accomplish the great
buliuefs o. the American revolution?
V\ hat nation patronized our cause at an
early period, and under whose a furan,e
and protection did Congress declare our
independence P-Whofe navy fectired
our extensive sea-coasts from deftruflion ?
Or whose soldiery flood as a breait-work,
to check the ravages of Britons and Hef.
fians, through our defencelefs villages
When our paper became Wllrft
depreciation, from whence were
.heie states supplied with a permanent cur
rency?— Who l'uppqrted our commerce
-.tiring the war, or on what nation were
oills of exchange drawn, at 33 ,-•? pe r
:ent. difcount?—ln short, gentlemen
without enumerating particulars, (as
thousands mult anfe in your minds) what
European nation gave a permanency to
our public debt, eflablilhed the liberties of
our country, and enabled vou to e»ioy
under your own vine and fig-tree the
various luxuries of life attendant on your
inunenfe pecuniary acquisitions ?
It isarefleaion worthy of von feri-s
ous confideratiou, that unless France had
become the ally of America, the debt con
traced during the war, instead of being;
uncer the direction of out ovjh voierti*
meat, and in ibe hands of uur ovjn citizens.
would have been, charged to :hefe /lata,
and th? British government would have
illumed '■'the r'ght to tax us in ail ca/es "
tor its discharge. An "ASSUMPTION"of
the 1110 ft aggravated nature would then have
:aken place, and you, gentlemen, instead
at.the p.eaiing prospecTs which now pre
ent themselves to your fancies, would
with the reft of ytjur countrymen, have
jecome a group of contemptible vaff„ls
ind condemned to toil for the emolument
if a numerous body ol task masters, acting,
jnder the controul of an incensed mini
fy. .
Pardon me, if I enquire whether fomt
3i you hare not ,amassed your fortunes
under the friendly patronage of the consuls
at 1-ranee r During our content with Bri
tain - di .j| rlot jotne of you experience the
molt liberal advantages from the nation,
whom we then glijried in calling our ally 3
Was not the utmost confidence placed in
your negociations, and did jon not then
consider yourselves highly favoured, in be
ing within the focus of their contracts 5
The benefits you received are too evident
to be concealed, neither is it prelumed
that it is your wish to difclaiiu vour con
nexion.
If there are any of the holders of our
Public Securities, unfriendly to the cause
of France,no men can q£tmoreinconfiftent
with their own interejl. I would alk fucli
provided France lhculd be conquered by
the combined armies, where is the security
of your present funded property ?—From
whence are your quarterly payments to
arise (-Do you fuppole that the Britifli
nation, after subduing France, will tameiy
States to raise a revenue for the
difcnarge of a debt contrasted in a rebel
lion (as they would call it) agaiuft them f
—Do you flatter yourselves that the fame
appropriation of finance will then be ner
fliUted wider the dir«ttiunof *ur o-.vn. jo.veffiilient,toenrich theprefentproprietors?
I—Do you suppose that theprefent ministry
■will not be as anxious to raise a revenue
from this country, to support the almost
exhausted funds of Britain, as Bute or
North, during their administration ?—
If the trifling duty on Tea was then an
objeCt, what do you suppose will be the
disposition of Britain towards us, when
they fee we can raise an Impolt and Ex
cise upon almost every article of foreign
importation ?—Will not a rapacious nii
jiiltry view with a wifliful eye, our flou
rifliing resources, and purfhe measures to
acquire these advantages to themselves ?
X)o you suppose, after the British have •ex
hausted the wealth of their nation, and
thoufandsof their merchants and manufac
turers are begging for afliftance froni go
vernment, in consequence of their bank
ruptcies, that they will fuffer tliefe states to
enjoy in jecurity their immense revenues,
and permit you, gentlemen, to draw your
annual payment under the aulpices of tue
present system of finance—elpecially when
they confrder that our funded debt origi
nated from the war commenced against
them ?
These are reflections worthy of your
coafideration. Depend upon it, immedi
ately on their conquering France, the pow
ers of Europe will look towards this coun
try to indemnify themselves for their ex
penses, and the United States, like the un
happy Polanders, will be divided between
rhem to satiate their avarice.—The system
of finance, as already cut and dried to their
hands, would, without doubt, be appro
priated to their particular purposes. Your
whole funded stock, bank-fliares, &c.
would probably be confiscated, and yoO
together with your families, turned from
the magnificent dwellings you have lately
•eretted, to give place for court favourites.
The contest with France, being a war
of principle—despotism against freedom —
the tyrants of Europe would think their
work but half accomplished, unless they
txtinguifhed the flame of liberty in Ame
rica.
These hints, gentlemen, may appear lu
dicrous and rifionary, but however you
may now treat them, a few years, (in cafe
France is subdued) will substantiate the
truth of the foregoing observations.
This being the cafe, is it wife, prudent
or politic to endeavour to difaffeCt the
French nation, or affront their minister?
Is it for your interejl to favour the British
in preference to the French ?
If gratitude, therefore, has no influence
on your conduit, it is prefuined you are
attached to your interefl. —lffo, let not
the writings ofPAciFicus orCAMj llus,
(men who aim to weaken our attachment
to the cause of France, and who are zeal
ous to invalidate every important article of
our treaty) bias your actions or mislead
your juogment; neither let the abuse and
scurrility which appear in some of our pa
pers operate unfavourable towards her
minister; for it is a faCt that cannot be
controverted, that some who pretend to
be the firm supporters of the honour of
our country, and the reputation of our
"illustrious" President, were, 'during
those times '■'■that tried men's a
mong the enemy plotting our ruin, and
rioting on the property of the Americans.
BRUTUS.
BRIEF REFLECTIONS on SEVERAL I
SUBJECTS.
X. IT is remarkable, that no sooner
had the Americans by their virtue, their
conttancy. and their fufferings, emancipa
ted themselves from the yoke of foreign
tyranny,than a spirit of internal aristocracy
began to exalt itfelf over the people. The
image of a cruel and ferocious bird was
fixed on as the future emblem of military
diftinCtion,and expreflive of an Order sepa
rate from the body of the people, and
worthy of certain exclulive honors and
privileges. The adoption of the federal
government, by some strange fatality, sup
plied fuel for this spirit, and certain per
sons who were fixed on as the temporary
servants of the people, instantly with the
"eyes of Don Quixote, saw nothing but cas
tles, crowns, sceptres, lords, knigUts, prin
cefies, and kings, while in reality all this
was no more than mere taverns, Scotch
bonnets, inn-holders, market wenches, &
country squires. To delude the people
the more effectually, a Gazette was set oil
foot, to persuade the Americans that they
were not fit to govern themselves ; that
privileged orders wereindifpenlible in eve
ry well governed state ; to advertise the
births of the well-born ; to sing birth-day
odes ; and notify the world of the deaths
of great men, " who held offices over the
people. ItisafaCt, in that Gazette, for
a long time,
" Every rogue that flunk alive
Became a precious mummy dead."
2. How many are now hugging their
darling fix-per-cents, and trembling for
their fall ! Contrail the situation of these
men with that of the difabied and starving
soldier, who served in the American war,
and it might be expected that the crumbs
from their tables would be allowed to the
men whose fufferings and miseries consti
tute the basis of their fortunes. What
are the characters of some «f these fix-per
cent me-fl ? of many of thara not very
patriotic There could be little or 110 pa
triotism in flying from Geneva to Loudon
& from London to Geneva,juft as the news
from America was fortunate or otherwise,
and keeping themselves constantly in a
situation to join the victorious party.
3. Time alone can make an order of
nobility refpeCtable. The nobility of all
countries have originated from wars, con
quests, and revolutions, and at firlt were
ferocious, barbarous, and unpolished; it
oeing impofßble that dating part of one life
the rude habits of a former condition could
be enlirely eradicated, and more polished
manners substituted. Nothing, however,
can be more absurd than an order of nobi
lity, fhiaing in immense wealth, and yet
retaining every original trait of meanness
and littleness. But long fucceflion, educa
tion, and abstraCtion from the vulgar, at
length effeCt a refinement of ideas, and
melioration of manners. The German,
Britilh, and old French nobility, tho' the
greatest fcouudrels on earth, are, and were,
nevertheless. the most civil and polite peo
ple in the universe.
4. Those persons who disapprove of cer
tain measures of the federal government,
are reproached with being in search of
loaves aud fijhes. Let us a(k, what are
these loaves and fifties ? The present pof
feflbrs of them can belt tell. Legal salaries
of office are too moderate to be an objeCt
of avarice, or be a fund for those enormous
acquisitions, which have not escaped the
eye of America. Is the favour of admini
flration lucrative, or in any mode benefi
cial ?—I should be glad to know, in what
way, and to what extent, in order that
undue felfifh influence may be detected,
operating upon those who complain of its
measures. If the government is already a
government of loaves and fifties, it implies
the necefiity ofinftant reformation, because
time fanitifies abuses —if not, the motives
which aCtuate those, who are striving to
prevent its becoming so, mult be pure and
patriotic.
PHILADELPHIA.
Saturday, September 14.
It is rather fuiprizing (fays a corres
pondent) that among all the communica
tions for preventing the infection, or reliev
ing those afiliCted with the Weft-India yel
low fever in Philadelphia, the Jiinls of the
benevolent Howard have not once been
recurred to. His books upon prisons and
lazarettoes ought to be the constant study.
not only of the physical faculty, but of all
who are concerned for the extinction of
so infectious and malignant a disease as rages
here. Howard, to prevent infection, plac
ed his confidence principally 011 white
wafliing the apartments with quick-litre.
To this may be added, the strong vibrating
explosion of gun-powder ; for the mere
flafiiing of gun powder, or burning of ni
tre are infignificant. A sea-engagement
has been known fs entirely extinguifli the
j yellow fever infection on board of ships,
j —The following requifitesto prefervefrom
infection are from the firft authority—
cleahfinefs, cheerfulnefs, courage, regular
and 'temperate living ; with the very mo
derate use of brandy and other liquors, so
far as to aCt as a gentle stimulus upon the
spirits. Soakihg sheets of paper in a difib
lution of falt-petre, and agitating the sheets,
thus soaked, through a room, is also an ex
cellent preservative from all infeCtion.
" The Americans (fays a Virginia paper)
notwithstanding they were formerly har
rafTed Co support men of titles over the At
- lantic, do not yet seem to have imbibed
that averfiou for titular distinCtions which
the nature of their government demands.
Every Jnftite of Peace is still styled " His
worship"—we mult not open our mouths
to a Judge, without calling him, " Your
honour.' 1 In our Assemblies we still reply
" To the honourable member who spoke
last."—As to ejquires and gentlemen, they
have increased so much as almost to super
sede the use of plain Mr. in our addrefles.
Nor do we find more humility among the
clergy, who are not only-reverend, but
growing up, in a hopeful way, to be right
reverend in several of States. This is let
ting the people drink their fill of the dregs
of nobility, witl out benefit to themselves
or the public, when they might draw it
from the pure fountain, with mutual ad
vantage to both. These titles, which the
.virtuous, republicans. of America are so
fond of annexing to their employments,
are au injury to merchants and men of
other profeflions, who have not an oppor
tunity of afluming the fame privilege, but
are thrown into the common herd, with the
indifcrimniate title of plain A/r." !
ExtraCt of a letter from Bofion, Aug. 29.
" The state of politics since I saw you
has become more turbid; its atmosphere
is clouded with conflicting elements ; but,
I hope, in the political, as well as in the
natural, it will purge itfeif of all extrane
ous matter, and subside upon its proper
basis. May Liberty, Equality, and the
Rights of Man be the great principle and
standard of every American Gazette ; and
may America aud France be only the van
guard of the great proceflion of mankind,
in entering the mighty temple of universal
freedom J While your paper advocates the
cause of human nature, in attaining thole'
rights which God deligned for man,it will
never fail of the support of -every wife A
merican, nor want wishes of one
who subscribes hiinfelf, your friend," &c.
—P. S. "I have just time to add, that lor
48 hours part we have had a series of arri
vals, bringing good tidings from our noble
allies. God lend them, and all Europe,
and eve.n America, a speedy triumph over
tyranny, and may your paper be one of the
heralds of the victory."
Capt. Coffin, in the brig William, from
Jeremie to New-York, was boarded on
his pafl'age, by the sloop Maxwell, captain
Clutfom, of 6 guns, and sent into New-
Providence, where he was detained 9 days.
About 14 tons of coffee and cotton v\ere ta
ken out of capt. Coffin, as French proper
ty, although it had been (hipped as Ameri
can property. Capt. Coffin received from
the New-Providence Juris of humanity, up
wards of 400 dollars, as freight for the
property they flole from him. He was
boarded on his pafl'age by sixteen different
pickaroons. y
" The late favourable news from France
must be plealing to every friend to this
country ; however disagreeable it may be
to those who are unfriendly to the cause
of that republic. The success of the
French nation is of the utmost consequence
to the United States, both as it refpetts
our liberties and properties. Should
France be conquered, the former would
foen fall a facritice to the principles of mo
narchy, and the latter would be exposed
to every depredation by sea and land. E
ven at present, our navigation labours zan
der alnmlt as many etnbarraflinents, as if
we were aitually at war. The several
British Weft-India lilands, are cVouded
with American vefl'els, taken by their pri
vateers : and though we are so desirous to
keep in a date of neutrality, yet the Bri
tifli nation are pursuing the matt insolent
conduit towards us, and we have heard of
no remonftrain es to that nation. Suppose
the French had been guilty of one quarter
of the enormities of the Englith, would
they not before this, have experienced the
direful vengeance of our vindictive hand ? '
[BOJIOII Indepen. Chron. ]
Portsmouth, Middletown, and the inha
bitants of several other towns in the East
ern states, convened in town meetings,
have published their votes, approving the
President's proclamation of neutrality.
There are now building in the state of
Maflachnfets, uear one hundred failofvef
fels from 150 to 800 tolls burthen, a great
number of which will be launched this
autumn.
It appears from English papers, that no
thing but the present combination of Eng
land and Spain against France, iprevents a
renewal of the dispute between the two
former powers, relative to Nootka Sound.
Owing to a want of precision in the con
ventional articles agreed an between Fitz
herbert and Count Florida Blanca, the
Spanish Governor at Nootka has refofed
giving up the country to capt. Van Couver,
the person authorized by the Britifti court,
to take pofl'elfion, alledging that the treaty
only gavi; them a coiner of a little cove,
one hundred yards in extent, which he
would put the Englifli in pofleffion of as
soon as tl«?y chose. This was refufed.
Nootka is made a free port by the Spa
niards, open to the ship» cf all nations.
Nootka Sound lies in about lat. 48 North,
in 65 degrees of western longitude from
the meridan of Philadelphia, and about
3250 miles W. N. W. of that city.
Extract of a letter from an officer on board
the Boston frigate to his friend in New-
York, dated Halifax, Aug 26.
*' Before this reaches you, you will have
heard of the action betwixt us and the
Ambuscade, our loss is as follows—Captain
Courtney and Mr. Butler of the marines,
killed early in the action, with 8 others,
and 24 wounded, amongst which are the
firfl and second lieutenants—neither danger
roufly. We have fufFered a little in our
hull, but very much in our rigging; our
men seemed to be in good spirits, consi
dering the lufs of our captain; but alter
the lols of our main-topniaft, the French,
fleet was dtfeovereef from the mafl head,
and we were obliged to make all the fail
we could."
The French 40 gun (hip La Precieufe,
that has been some time in this port refit
ting, is,now nearly rea'dyfor sea. L'Eole,
of 74, at New-York, is the flag ship 1 f the
fleet, and commanded by admiral Seney;
the Jupiter by Captain Boinpard. L'Eole
was to have failed 011 a cruise 011 Wednes
day last, and to look out for the British
(lfip Orion, now in the Chefapeak.
Papers from all quarters are yet filled
with enormities committed by the New-
Providence privateers on the American
tr; de.
It is fa!d. that admiral Gardner, since his
repulse at Martinico, has loft the friendfhip
of all ranks; scarce any cne will keep his
company.
By late accounts from the East-Indies
we hear that ail the Indian princes are
again about to join Tippon Saib, in a com
bination against the British force in that
part of the world.
The matters of British privateers in the
Weft-Indies, have orders to fend into fort
all American vessels whose cargoes are not
wholly consigned to the captain on board,
or whose captains will not swear that the
whole carg» is American property.
The following is the partition of France,
to be made, in cafe the combined forces
are victorious. Allace and Lorrain, to the
elector Palatine, in the place of Bavaria
annexed to the domains of the house of
Austria ; Artois and part of Picardy and
Champagne, to the prince of Hesse Caffel;
Normandy and Britanny, together with
Maine and Anjou, to the duke of York;
Burgundy and Franche Coiute, which lat
ter joins the king of Prussia's principality of
Neufchatel, are to go to that monarch ;
the principality of Orange is to be restored
to the house of that name ; as well as Avig
•non to the Pope. The king of Sardinia is
to have Provence, and the king of Spain,
Gafcony and Rouffillon, which formerly
belonged to him. France will be no longer
a maritime power, being entirely cut out
from the ocean by this curtailment. Her
foreign poffeflions are to go to the Englifli
and Dutch. The ancient government un
der a Bourbon prince, will be eftabliflied
on the pitiful remnant.
The July packet is arrived at New-York,
but having had a longpallage, the accounts
by her art not of so late a date as by other
velTels. The latest arrivals trum France,
aie to the Gheiapcak, and bring in general
the most fati faclory news with regard ti»
the affairs of that republic. Toward the
lull of July, a perfett tranquility prevailed
over tlie whole 84 departments, and the
new Constitution had been accepted With
a general applause. The combined armies,
far from being any wife fuccefsful, were
effectually checked, and in many places
routed. Notwithstanding the base efforts
of Old England to starve the Repnblie, the
French privateers had been able to supply
every species of provifioßs to their country
in abundance from the Englifli provision
vessels, going out to supply the Itarving co
nies in the Weft-Indies, andevervday saw
he prizes crouding into the French ports.
The follow ing are the particulars of th&
defeat of thw Spanish army near Bayon
ne, in June lull, by the French under
Gen. Courpon.
" The Bth inft. we had a great many
workmen employed, to repair the fort of
Socoa, and as it was important to the Spa
niards, to prevent this being done ; we had
forefeen that they would attack us, and
had concealed in the neighbouring woods
a masked battery, of 14 pieces of cannon,
and 40C0 men, lying 011 their bellies, on
the ground, and while the troops and
workmen at Fontenis, appeared to retreat,
our ambuscade took them in flank and
rear, and put them totally to rout. They
left 011 the ground, *4566 men dead; 19CO
prisoners, and nearly as many wounded.
The fine regiment of Spani/h CarabinieJ-s,
was totally destroyed, as well as one of
Dragoons. We took 1300 and odd horses,
all their field tents, which they occupied
the night before, and pursued tlifin lor
three quarters of a league beyond their
former encampment. I need not tell you,
tliat all their provisions and warlike llores,
fell into our hands. We loft only 79 men.
killed, and 114 wounded.
History will never fail to make honora
ble mention, of our brave republicans, e
specially of the battallion of Giroilde,
who determined the fate of the day 1 To
do thetn justice, each individual fliould be
named ; but above all, was distinguished
citizen Fauver, a merchant of Bordeaux,
and capt. of foot, Chapefen ; he took with
his own hand, the colonel of the Spanish
Carabiniers prisoner, after having pursued
him upwards of Sc<s yards, overthrowing
every thing in his way. They hiid not
determined how to celebrate this heroic
a£tion."
The fliip Active, Capt. Seaman arrived
at New-York, on Wednesday last in fix
weeks from Liverpool, She brings no later
intelligence than by former arrivals. Five
and forty pnflengers came in the A£live.
The Mayor of the city of New-York,
has requested of the practicing Physicians
there, to leave at his office the names of
all such person's as have arrived, or (hall
arrive from Philadelphia, or any other
place, that may be sick, and tinder their
care, with their place of residence, in order
that such as are infe&ed with the yellow
fever may be removed out of the city.
" Abftra&ed from tories, paper-jobbers,
Englishmen, and English agents in this
country (fays a letter from Boston) there
are few that have put their names to the
Addresses tending to vilify and abuse the
Minister of France. Of these few, many
are of the 1110 ft contemptible class, and
noted time-servers, or jacks-of-all-ftdes,
as convenience may suit."
The following strange exaggerated ac
count of the dilVder in this city appears in
one of the Gazettes of a neighbouring
State, dated Sept. 5. —"The yellowfever
hath killed some thousands of the inhabi
tants of this city. Eight thousand mecha
nics, besides other people, have left town.''
&C.&C. *
In the brig Almy, capt. Butler, that ar
rived at New-York on Monday last, in 49
days from Glasgow, came 72 paflengers,
who report, that great numbers of their
cou.uryuu'ii are preparing te quit thatImid oppression—that since the parli;i
nt'eiitary order to turni'.h the Scotch garri
sons with Hdfians, and other mercenary
butchers, the country has become ripe foi
another '45 plot, and it is a queitiou with
them, whether there will not loon be an
open rebellion.
A meecing ot the subscribers toi collect
ing funis of m >.iey and contributions lor
the life of tile French Republic, was or
d.-red to be held at Cariifle on Monday
last, in order to present an address to Mr.
Genet, Mini Iter Plenipotentiary from the
Republic of France to the United States ot
America ; and to agree respecting the dil
pofil of the Hour, that has been cgntru
biited.
Prividencs, (Bahama) Aug. 16. " The
Blanche frigate lias arrived exprelsfrom
England, in 2} days, with dispatches to
.-Mliuiral Gardner, the day betore he failed.
Yt wj. raid, lhe brought intelligence ot a
fquadrou of seven lliips, belides frigates,
having left Brell; itsdeltinatiuii unknown.
Cha> lefto'i, Aug. 22. Capt. Patten in a
schooner belonging to Marblehead, from
Cadiz, bound to Malaga, within a lew
leagues of his destined port, and one league
off the it.'jre, about day break, tell in with
two Algerian galleys. He had jult time
to get his boat out whea one of the pirates
came c!ofe along fide, so that he was oblig
ed to make for the Ihore without saving
his money, papers, or cloaths; and he had
10 pass the other, which had £ot between
him and the Ihore. Both gave ch.-ice and
kept a conltant tiring while he remained in
seach of their guns, however, fortunately,
he and his crew got off unhurt. Captain
Patten car e afterwards to Gibraltar, and
as he had fold his cargo at Cadiz for b'll;
011 Malaga, he wasenabled to make a pur
chase of a French prize vessel very cheap,
there being but iictle demand lor thole ves
sels. Patten failed from Gibraltar foi
Marblehead on 29th of June.
Peace and commerce, we are well anur
ed, begin to succeed war and desolation in
the weltern parts of Hifpaniola.
" Though ;he melancholy catastrophe of
Cape Francois has been severely felt thro'-
out the whole illand, Port an Prince, even
lince its bombardment by the America, ha;
continued in a ftate.of tranquillity. Ne
groes are at work ; the proprietors liavt
inoltly returned to their lands, andiolai
has the number of refugees from the coun
try been diminiihed, as to enable the ad
miniltrators of government to make, on
tbe lilt of July, a reduction 0f630J ration:
from 1J.303. which was the number dail;
delivered out 011 the lit of May last.
Salem, Sept. 5- A vessel from Oftenc
is iult arrived, after 55 days paflate, com
manded by capt. Stone. He confirms th<
accounts by former arrivals from Europe
of the dull movements o£ the cbmbmet
armies—who had not, nor was it probabl.
they would, 111 ike the lealt impression un
favourable to the cause of France and o
liberty. A few days before capt. Stoni
failed, all the Dutch troops who were eo
camped about 15 miles from Oltend, dec
into the town, Danic (truck, on alarm tha
the troops of the Republic were marchinj
against them, who are in great force neai
that plaoe—this circumstance will give ai
idea of the impression which the Frencl
foldi'.rs make upon their enemies. The
inhabitants of Oltend were under fearfu
appreheniions of the French attacking it
which is coufidered as a very probable
d»ve it, as the Englilh have great quantitie;
of hay and other i'tores, and a vult deal oJ
property there.
Capt. Stone w»s in company wuh ai
Englilh colonel at Oltend, who spoke very
faintly of their profpeSs at Valenciennes :
there are 8o,o»o men attacking it (whe
were then many of them severely attackec
by the d/(entry) among which are the
Englilh troops. It is bravely defended b>
10 000 French, who are affilled by the in
habitants: They have fix months provifioiv
in the town, and are determined todeiem
it to the last extremity. The Duke ul
"York, (who nominally commands) sent 11.
lour times, deliring a furender—the lad
time the commandant informed him, thai
if he was impertinent enough to repeat hi;
message, he would hang the messenger up
on the ramparts. It reported and at
terwards contraditted, that the houses 11
Valenciennes were principally deltroyed.
When capt. Stone was at Morlaix (in
June) there were 15 rich prizes sent in by
the French cruisers—one of them a large
(hip from Bombay,with two thousand bale;
of cotton on board. The citizens ol i lot -
laix ivere iu excellent spirits, cenfident ot
the speedy fuecefs of the armies ot liberty
over the combination of despotism. Pro
visions there were cheap, plenty and good.
Before he left Morlaix seven gun-boats,
well armed and equipped, failed 011 a ftcret
expedition.
Pittjburgh, Sept. 17. Sunday last arrived
an express in this town from the Comnnf
li oners who were sent to tie at with the In
dians: He had left the commissioners 011
this fide Lake Erie, having eroded over
with them froin Fort Erie, that day eight
days. They had been 111 it at Niagara by
Indian commissioners, and with them had
failed in feparaie Yeffels to tlie mouth of
Detroit river 18 miles from Detroit, where
our commifiioaers were directed to remain.
until an answer fliould be brought from
the great council of the Indian nation?
aifembled at the rapids ot the Miami ant
the Lake. On the 2d of Align ft an anfwei
was brought to this effect, that the onl)
terms on which peace could be made wa:
our ceding the country on the weft of the
Ohio arid Allegheny rivers. The cbmmif
lioners fuggeited the impoflibility ot doiuj
this, as the lands had been fold bv tht
Congress, and people had lettled on them
but that the United States would be willinj
to give more goods than they had given a
any other time. The Indians replied, tha
if tlie Congress would give one halt of theli
goods to the people that had ftftcled. the;
would leave the land, and remove thi
difficulty. Our commiilloners replied tha
the land they must nave, and would no
give it up. The Indians said it was well
tiiid there need no more be fa'd. However
■leiired them to remain if they though
proper; until they returned to the council
and laid this before them. On the i6tl
of August two Indians came and informec
that the final result of their deliberation
was the country in question, or war. Ih<
?xprefs is of opinion from the language o
individual Indians in privare, and fron
ather circumstances, that the Britifli whollj
:ondu£t the.r couufels, and ditlate theii
demands.
By the arrival of some persons from i 011
Washington on Monday last, we are in-
that the Indians (till contimu
hovering about the out garrisons, and occa
[ionally dealing horses ; —that the army 1
in high spirits, anxiously waiting the eveni
»f »he treaty, and hoping that a ca/npaigi
will take place, as 110 idea of peace is en
tertained by any one—that the greatel
pains hjs been taken by the Commander ir
Chief, in training men in the acl: o]
wood fighting, and that from their pro.
laiency, and the unanimity prevailing
throughout the whole army, success ma)
De iliould a campaign take place.
Fro?7i NeiV-York, Sept. 9. The Ft encl
lave published a Bullet* n y add relied to the
:rews of their fteets in America ; in whict.
they charge the late general Galbaud oi
having made. ule of every means to deceive
and seduce the people of the Jupiter-~01
abusing the molt refpettable titles of Re
publicans and patriots—of faying that he
was firmly resolved on going to Frame,
with the intention of juftifying himfelf be
fore the Convention ; arid at the lame
time, of ullng the molt base and vile iiieans
to dellroy the forces t-f the Republic, aac
to promote the designs of their enemies.—
Of concerting plans with others who wore
the mask of republicanism, to cause the
fleet to return to the 1 Hands ior the mofl
pernicious purposes ; that is, to make the
forces of the Republic, the executioners
of their private vengeance, in facrificing
the remaining seamen who hadtfeaped the
catastrophe at the Cape. _
The papers have been detected at the
house ot one of his principal agents, which
have disclosed the plot, equally ridiculous
and abominable. M. Galbaud, convinced,
that being thus detetled, he should not onl)
ie abandoned, bwtdefpifed by ail the brave
seamen of the fleet, has contrived his
,'scape.
" Galbaud has attempted his flight, and
las fucceecledI—he1 —he has basely deceited the
nen who had sworn to guard him faith
fully, and having given them a rendezvous
it Philadelphia, set off himfelf for Canada,
and is, going to take refuge with our ene
liies the English.
" It is known how he escaped the Ame
ican authority, but it has not been told
perhaps, how haughtily he boaftr. before
:he Tories and Aristocrats who have be
friended him, that he has never iincerely
acknowledged the Republic of France ; and
that his only delign in attacking the Cape,
was to reft ore that colony to the royal
dominion —-to that of the little Capet
"alias Louis XV 11-3
" " Tliefe fa£ts being deposed before the
Mayor ot the city, with much besides, not
less important,ought to prove to the people
of the fleet, that Citizen Genet was not at all
mistaken, when, at his firft arrival, he de
nounced Galbaud to them, as an accom
plice of the wretched Dumourier.
" Now that all is discovered, the people
have but one thing to do, to prove the
validity of Lhelr patriotifro—and that is to
bring to light, all those who have abused
[heir trust in exciting them to rife againll
the appointed authorities. —Such can be
none other than the agents of Galbaud—
and such flagitious character-, cannot dc
[erve the honor of fighting againlt the ene
mies of their country."
Boflon, Sept. 5. A gentleman well
known in this town and in Salem, and who
arrived yesterday from the latter place, in
forms us, that he had converted with the
captain of the ship, which arrived there on
Tuelday last, in 50 days from Nantz, who
told him, that he was an eye-witness of
the a£tioh of the 29th of June, between the
patriots and insurgents—that it was re
ported, there were 35,000 of the insurgents
embodied, with an intention of attacking
Nantz; that the patriots being apprized
of it,made afally upon, routed and defeat
ed the whole body, leaving new jj,ooo
dead ; that the insurrection was entirely
at an end ; a;id that t.vj patriots were de
termined on establishing a conftitntion,
without the interference of any pov.eron
earth ; that the patriotic females ot Nanlz.
were fpiritediy employed, previously to the
action, in preparing lint and provilions, ti
•lid in crnffiing the rebellion ; that Valen
ciennes wa>; not taken, and no danger ap
prehended from the combined forces : ii
ihort, that the affairs of France were :
more pleasing aspect, than at any time finct
the revolution ; and that it was- believet
at Nantz, that the British cabinet weretlu
principle fomenters of all their interna
commotions.
After the action of the 29th of June, tlit
patriots, it is said, examined the dead bo
lies, in order to find theprielts and nobiii
ty, who were the principal leaders in al
:heir internal difficulties, but being difguif
;d in the habits of peasants. they could on
y discover them by the foftnefs of theii
'lands, and the petit maitrc effeminacy o
their persons; there were many ofthofi
gentry, however, found among tiiem.
Savannah, Aug. 22. The Creeks keep
jp the old cuftoni of pilfering on the front
ers. In the night of the Bth inft. a party
"aid to belong to the Euchee town, at
tempted to (teal some horses from captair
'-Villiams's ltation at St. Savilla. That vi
gilant officer was prepared for them, anc
jne of the Indians mult have dearly p.iic
for his temerity ; he was seen to fall, ant
n the place where he fell near a pint 01
blood was found, with his bag of paint
fealping knife, and other war implements.
The fellow, however, whether killed 01
wounded, was b.irne off by his compani
ins. Advices received to the weltwarc
mention that one of the Indians captaii
Williams fired at in a former attempt hat
arrived in the nation desperately wounded
Bait-more, Sept. 7. This forenoon ;
melancholy circumstance happened in Mar
ket, near in this town. A
Doy playing in a back yard in which was;
well that had been lately uncovered foi
:he purpose of cleaning out, dropped his
hat in it—a young lad attempted to g<,
joftrri for it,but 011 descending 10 or 12 feel
le was fnffocated—Mr. Gaulter Hornby,
1111. foil of Gaulter Hornby cabinet-makei
n going down to bring the lad up met
with the faiiie untimely fate —and a negrc
ad who was let down after him was very
lear being deprived of life before he g,oi
:o the bottom, and when brought tip was
to all appe&rance dead. Let this serve a:
1 caution to people in future, never to at
tempt going into wells, or vaults, befort
ihe foul air is dispersed by burning; of gnr
powder, nitre, or lonie oilier alkaline lub
itaace.
CharltTton, Aug. 20. Capt. Talbot, o]
the (loop Alexander Hamilton, which ar
rived here on Sunday evening, informs us
that, on his outward bound pailage toNew-
Providence, off Egg-Island, he fell in wits
the privateer Sally, commanded by Jeremi
ah Grant, of New-Providence. The firll
"dotation he received from the privateei
was a discharge of two mu£cets, loadet
with balls, which went through the jib ;
npon which he hove hi» veflel to. Captaii
Cjrant then ordered liiin to lioift out hi
joat. Captain Talbot replied, his bnal
was leaky and would not fvvim. As fodit
the answer was given, the privateet
ired a volley of muff-eery into the sloop,
by which her fails and rigging were great!)
injured. Grant then sent his own boat, anc
carried Talbot 011 board the privateer. He
h id no sooner got on board than he was ac
coftfed with very abusive language and re
ceived a blow from captain Grant; by which
be was knocked down, and afterward:
Itai'ipcd under feet, when the firll lieute
nant (a Mr. Lyburn) interfered and de
clared he would not fee a man abused ir
that manner. By this time Grant hat
drawn a sword; and swore he would take
Talbot's life ; but the lieutenant arreltec
his arm, and prevented him from doing all)
further injury. Captain Talbot believe?
that he would have been murdered by the
said Grant, had it not been for the timely
interposition of the lieutenant Lyburn. Al
the crew of the sloop, except the mate
were taken out, and the veflel fuffered t<;
J rift out of fight, before they were return
;ii, which was not till after a detention o)
['even or Sight hours.
New-York, Sept. 12. " A cdrrefpondem
ibferves that in order to compole ana quiel
the public i-nind which is much agitated or
iccount of the fever now raging in Phila
delphia, it would be well for the authority
i>f this (tate and city, to cut off all com
munication with that place, but by post—
It might be confirmed by fonie, as an unne
cessary stretch of power or authority, but
tiie great law of neceflity is superior to all
others, and is itfelf a principle of action,
.hatin particular circumftancesis and ought
to be irrefi(table—This might be effected
jy a variety of means—at any rate it would
be proper abjolutely to forbid the landing
beds or bedding of any kind, and to order
nil cloathing to be infpetted and aired be
fore coming into the city—Noperfon la
bouring under any illness or fever, lliould
be permitted to come from Philadelphia—
our correfpoiident derives tliiis iiinu Ii ta
some of his medical friends, with wholrt
he has conversed, and submits them to the
serious conlideration of his fellow-citizens,
and the authority of his country."
Peterjburgy Sept. 3. At a large election
in the county of Beaufort, North-Carolina,
for members of the house of commons of
that state, a riot took place, at the time ot
counting om the ballots, in consequence of
the election being likely to terminate a
garioft the vvifh of the rioters.—Near the
tlofe of the poll a general battle ensued, in
which the ballot box was taken poiftflion
ot, and destroyed.
Baltimore, Sep. 9. A correspondent in
forms thai the captain, lieutenants, surgeon,
kc. of the privateer Sans Culotte, lately
.aptured by the Orion 74 gun' Britifti (hip,
ire confined on board the said ttrip, in an
roil cage, which modern writers term a
var jacket- So much for privateering 1 It
s the ardent desire of every true American,
:hat all the crews of the N. Providence
jirates, and Britifti plunderers of every
iefcription, may meet with a similar fate.
Captaitl Reilly, of Conne£licut, front
?ort-au Prince, arrived at CharlefVon, the
toth ult. was boarded by two piratical pri
/ateers. and aft«r insulting him, they put
wo prize-mailers on board his brig, and
ix sailors, and ordered her for New-Pro
/idence, but bn the 4th day after his cap
:ure, lie retook his veflel, and carried the;
ibove culprits into Charleston, who were
;ommitted to jail, as being concerned in
he aforefaid att of piracy, cominitted oa
he high seas, Contrary to the law of na
:1011s. They will t,e tried at the next cir
:uit court, which meets in O&ober. and
:here is no doubt but they will fuffer the,
penalty of the law.
ExtraJV of a letter .from Georgia, Aug. 22-.
" What federal protection have we re
reived? It has been as much as the federal
:roops could do to prote£t themselves.
some people console themselves with an
jpinion that the nextCnngreJs will do fome
hing'for us ; but if the Indians continue
heir present depredations, orte half of our
:itizem may be mafl'acred, and the other
lalf be driven from our frontiers, before
1 law of Congfefs can be pafled for any
jeneficial purpose of relief, even fuppof
ngEaftern policy might not oppose it. Our
Voatier at present displays a horrid scene.
Numbers of our citizens, even of the ami
ible and tender sex, are at this moment
laves to Indian insolence and brutality,
Irtidglng at the molt laborious and degrad
rtg kinds of servile labour, and (fomefe
nale prifoneis) forcibly prostituted to all
ivho fee (it to abule them, in deiilion ot
Georgia and her government !"
We linderftand that the pestilential fe
i er, lately so prevalent in this city, begins
.0 abare. persons from the country, may
now fafely 1 efcrt here, and remain free
from the contagion, provided they avoid.
nfeQed houses, or perlons.
The Charleston City Gazette of Augt'.ft
>2, slates an atount of the taking of a
"chooner of Marblehead, from Cadiz to
Malaga, Capt. Patten, by two Algerine
but the people all went On lhore,
aving nothing, and had arrived at Gibrtd
er. Captain Prelor, train Gibraltar t<>
who brought this account, con
ir 111s what was before heard, that the Bri
illi fleet there failed up the Levant on the
27th June, 011 a secret expedition, with fe
deral regiments 011 board—flippofed with
>4 Spaniiu iliips, and 28 frigates, to attack
Toulon. The Britifti fleet consisted of two
hips of 100 guns, 3 ,of 98, 12 of 74,30?
'>4, iof Jo, 12 frigates, 3 sloops of war, 1
ender, 2 firelhips, 1 hbfpitai fliip, and one
torefliip. There mull be treason in the.
:amp, if they take Toulon, the force of
,vhich we (hall give soon.
The municipality of Cambray.the native
dace of gen. Dumourier, have erected a
oftjr gibbet on the road, a little out of the
:he city, with the following infetiption : —
' The Commune of Cambray shudders at
laving given birth to the traitor Duraou
ier. PafTengers ! partake «f tlieii horror ;
md you, tyrants, tremble !"
OnTriday evening the 6th inft. departed
:his life, Doflor James Hutchinson,
n the 41ft year of his age—This gentleman
s one among the many rHonrnfui <i£tims'
i\ ho have fallen a prey to the present ma
ignant fever raging in this city ; but there
ire few wliofe loss can be attended with
more circumltances of general regret, a&
well as private misfortune.
Died, yesterday morning at 2
Mr. Joseph WriG iit, of this city, por
trait painter, an honed, worthy man.
Moral Reflections : from Prior,
" THUS Adam fniil'd,' in new born grace,
Life's flame infpir'd by heavenly breath ;
Thus the fame breath sweeps off his race
Disorders Nature's beauteous face,
And spreads disease and death."—
"IN vain we shun approaching ill—
Dangers cau multiply their form !
F.xpos'd we fly, like Jonas, flill;
But heaven, when 'tis heaven's \vilt
Q'trtakcs us with—a Sbptm. % [FRANCE.
LThe following is the real interrogatory
of PHILIP JOSEPH EGALITE,
at the criminal tribunal of Marseilles,
and his answers, as they were publi/hed
by \ oidel- his counsel; together with
the examination of his son, and the
ci-devant Prince of Conti.—the quef
trons of the President of the tribunal,
and their answers, may serve to throw
great light on several interelling circum
ltancea of the French Revolution*]]
F A R I S, June 23.
TRIAL of PHILIP EGALITE, (late
I)uke of Orleans) before the Criminal
Tribunal of Marseilles,
THE Prefitlent of the tribunal began
lis interrogatory as follows :
What is your name, citizen ?—A.
Louis Phi/ip jfofrph Egalite.
How old are you ?—A. lam forty
fix years of age.
Where were you born ?—A. At St.
Cloud ; my residence is at Paris.
yon know for what cause you
We arretted ?,—A. No, citizen-— Ihe
deciee of the Convention states the caviie
of being arretted as a measure of general
fafety : I know no more.
Qj_ What was your opinion concerning
the General States of 1789, who took the
name of National Assembly ?—A I tho't
they ought to be a National Aflembly.
In that firft Alfembly did you not
endeavour by your intrigues to prevent
the deftruftion of the clergy, 'the parlia
ments and the nobility ?-—A. No, citizen:
I did not then, nor ever did intrigue, I
w33 one of the fit ft of the order of nobi
Ifty who joined that which was then-called
the Order of the third Estate.
Q. In Odlober 1789, when the people
went to Vcrfa*illes to force Capet and his
family to go to Paris, had you not a partv
corn!lifted by 1 f:raih.iu to feat you on the
throne ?- A No, citizen ; I never bad a
party ot any kind. I ever had an aversion
for the throne: I never afpi.ed to it, noi
had any particular connexion with Mira
lea a.
At what period, hbwever, was it that
Mirabeau fa id to you, Mount your horse and
you ar kin ft ! —A Ido not recoiled that;
he never h;ld such language to me. I
fliould not have listened to it coolly.
It was then aflerted that you caused
excel live sums to be diftrifented to ascend
the throne, and that you made use of the
influence of Mirabeau to gain popularity •
—A I never caused any sums to be dis
tributed ; I never cherilhed nor desired
any thing but liberty.
Were you not present at private
meetings held by Bouille, La Fayette, Mi
rabeau, and others whose object was to en-
Ilave us!—A- No, citizen ; I never had any
knowledge of those meetings, and was never
present at private meetings of any kind.
•r (^-} Vere y ° U " ot thc '"nft'gator of the
visit of the people to the Thuilleries 0,1
the 20th of June, 1792, in the hopes that
they would murder Capet and his son,
and that you would succeed them to the
throne?—A. No, citizen; I never had
such a theught. I was not at Paris at the
time.
Ql flattered yourfelf, however, on
the 10 th of August, that Capets ad his
son being killed, you would be made kinc
A. No. b
Q. Was not the object of your journies
to England to engage the court of St.
James's to assist you In ascending the
throne of France ?—A. No, citizen ;my
firft journies to England were made with
no other view than to enjoy that liberty
of which we were then deprived. I un
dertook the last in 1789, with a commission
from government, and the approbation of
the National Assembly.
Did not you employ artifices to ob
tain the nomination of Representative to
the people ?—A. No, citizen ; I desired
it, but employed no artifice.
Ql What was your opinion at the mo
ment of the abolition of royalty and on
the eftab!i(hment of one indivisible Repub
lie ?—A. My wish was for one indivisible
Republic.
But you then conceived the project
of being Di&ator or Pro:e&or ? t\, N oj
citizen ; I never had that desire.
Q__ What was your project in fending
your two sons to the army ? A. They
had entered into the military career; the
one was Colonel and the other Lieutenant
in the fame regiment, and they followed
that career.
Q. Wei*e ysu not closely connected
with Dumrurisr i—A. No ; I knew him
very little.
he not take y6ur two sons with
him to the army to draw on them the af
fections of the soldiers, and mjtke them
inltrumental to his infamous treachery ?—
A. They were in the army before Du
>nourier took the command of it ; for they
served at the time when it was commanded
by Marshall Rochambcau.
You undoubtedly saw Dumourier,
when he cr.me to Paris, and he communi
cated to you, the sinister projects he had
; hen formed ?—A. I never saw Dumourier
Jut once, and for about fifty minutes :
tie communicated no such proje&s to me,
ind if he had I should not have kept them
ecret. It was by accident that I met
lim.
Did he not tell you that he would
nake your eldelt son Duke of Brabant
ind Holland, while he, Dumourier, would
>e Captain Genera! ?—A. No, citizen ;
le did not talk of that to me : He only
old me that he had much cfteem for my
on, who was a good officer.
mull necessarily have had some
project since you sent your daughter to a
rontier place near Dumourier, with the
armly of SMery ?—A. My daughter had
)een in England for her health, and to
ifrfeft herfelf in the Englifa language,
she had been entrusted from her infancy
since two years of age to the care of the
wife of citizen SiUery. When the Englilli
smbalfador in France was recalled, I wrote
politively to the wife of Sihery to bring
3ack my daughter to France, not being
willing rhat ftie should pass for an emi
grant. Ihe wife of Sil/ery put off her re
turn on different pretexts of ill health,
and she did not arrive till after the decree
concerning the emigrants had been passed :
As that law ordered all persons who had
been travelling, and who had explanations
to make concerning the motive of their
travels, to quit France, in the mean while,
I made her set off for Tourmy, and she
made the declaration of her departure to
the municipality of Paris : but from that
moment I withdrew from the wife of Sil-
Ury the powers I had given her, and the
authority Ihe had over my daughter. I
charged some persons in the Belgic pro
vinces to look out lor a woman who could
take care of her, as I could not at that
time fend one from Paris, who would have
been considered as au emigrant on leaving
Paris.
Your eldefl son in his eorrefpond.
ence with you mult undoubtedly have in
formed you of the counter-revolutionary
plots of Dumourier ?—A. No, citizen—
the judgment of Louis Capet our
correspondence was becom much cooler
his opinion being different from mine. He
made krfroton no project to me.
Q, :t i» fmpoffible that your eldest son
fnculd haVe been ignorant of the plots of
that i;;famoii3 general since he fled with
him: \ou mud consequently have been
informed of them yourfelf—l call upon
you to speak the truth ?—A. It is with
the greatest truth I declare, that I had no
knowledge of them whatever If I had
had the slightest suspicion I (hould no*
have kept them secret.
. as ' l not t0 mask your real inten
tions that you seated yourfelf among the
Mountain in the Convention, and voted
for the death of the tyrant, without any
appeal, while your partizans and friends
were among thole who voted for the appeal
to the departments?—A I never had any
party ; 1 never did any thing to mafic my
intentions ; I followed only the dictates of
my conscience.
Did you not after the death of the
tyrant fend emissaries to the Department
Df the North, to found the public opinion
ind to try whether it was not repugnant to
your being made king ?_No, citizen,none.
Qw Some of your domeftica have, how
ever, been recognized overrunning the de
partments, and holding nearly that lan
guage?—A. That cannot be.*
What connexion had you with Bi
ron ?—A. A conneaion of friend/hip of
thirty years (landing ; we are of the fame
age, and we were born the Tame day.
Was it he who requelled that your
youngest son should serve in his army ? Or
was it the miniiler who sent him to the
army in Italy ?—A. It was my youngest
son who requelled it of the miniiler, after
having obtained the coufent of Biron.
Was it not part of your plan that
one of your two sons should acquire po
pularity in the aimy of the North, and the
other in that of the South, in order to fe-
conJ the infamous projefti of BumOurler
for the deftrudtion of liberty ?—A. No>
citizen, I declare once more that I had
no knowledge whatever of the infamous
projects of Dumourier. It was my son who
desired to go to the atmy of the South, I
only complied with his wiffces, in obtain
ing the consent of Biron.
Who were the members of the Con
vention you mod commonly alfociated with
—I alfociated commonly with none ; I wa:
intimately connedled with none. Thofi
with whom I most communicated, in th(
Convention, were those who seated them
selves on the fide commonly called th<
Mountain, our opinions being similar.
(The remainder in our next.)
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.
September 1793.
D. H Banm. Tber. I IKnd. Weatha
luejdcrf, 3. 6 30. O 60 I N.W. Fair.
3 | N. dtp
IVedneJday, 4. 6 30. j 5 55 jW. Fair.
_ 3 3°- '5 75 ! W. do-.
Tburjday, 5.6 30.nl 62 S.E. jFat?.
.3 3°- ' 80 j S. ICloudy.
Friday, 6. 6 39.97 y 0 iw.s.w Fair.
9 ' Cloudy.
Saturday, 7. 6 30. 0 iw.K.w Vsr.
3 3"« c 77 N.W. J o _
Sunday, 3. 0 30. ) 64 calm Chuay.
3 3°- ' 70 do. ,j u .
Monday, 9. 6 50. c 66 S.E. R um .
3 3=» J 80 N.W. Fair.
JUST PUBLIS HE D,
And to be fold by ThoMAsDobson, Wit •
{•'AM Young, Robert Campbell
Meilrs. Rice and Co. and John M'
Culloch, No. 1, North Third-street,
EXAMINATION of the late pro
ceedings in Congress refpeftine; ilit
official conduct of the Secretary of the
J reafury ; with Observations, &c. on the
application of loansfrom Holland, ncnoci
ated under the arts of the 4th and 12 th ef
August 1790.—The price of the above
pamphlet is three sixteenths of a dollar, or
is 4d. i-2. April 24. 2aw tf
#* The author requests his readers ttj
corr e a the following ERRATA in the
pamphlet above mentioned Page j.
r,,'r ~ 2d ' P ara 2 ra ph, lor Coalition re u
Lotlijion. Page 25. line 11—2 d. parap
instead of Bank directors read "Stock
holders."
Seat of War.
FOR SALE
At M. Carey's Stora, 118, Mar
ket-street.
A SHEET MAP
Of the French, Austrian and Dutch Ne
thcrlands,
In which the progress of the present IVar
miy be traced.
Price three eighths of a Dollar.
And a MAP of the
Three-Northern Dittos of France, di
vided into Departments—Price
one fourth of a Dollar.
Maps of the United States s
A NV publie-fpirited gentlemen, pofl'efled with
materials for correcling and improving thi
mips of the several states, will lay M. Carev
under very particular obligations, by communi
cating them. He is in immediate want of fomt
for New-Jersey and Delaware; of which states,
lie is now preparing maps.
Guthrie's Geography :
THE fubfeription for this work, will be corni
ced open at the present rate of twelve dollars,
II the firft day of November next j after which
>t will be railed to fourteen dollars.
August 10.
w A NTED,
IN TWO OR THREE MONTHS
AN APPRENTICE '
TO A.
REGULAR APOTHECARY.
A Youth no: less than fifteen or fixteer
years of age, with u suitable education, and
rood moral character.—For further parti
culars enquire of the Editor. 2 awtf
JUST published"
And to be fold at the refpedtive Book Stores ol
Jofefb Cruhjhttnk and Tbttnas Dot/on, and mav
be had at the Printing office, No. ic 9 , Mar
ket-Street.— [Price one eighth of a dollar. 1
letters,
Iddrefled to the Yeomanry of the
United Statesi
Containing some Observations on FtmAino
and Bank Syjlems:
By ah AMERICAN FARMER.
AUen "wnjhip, Lanca/ler county,
A FEW COPIESOF THE
tra nsacti ° ns
Of thi Society injlituted in the State oi
. _ f or t!ie promotion of
AGRICULTURE, ARTS, and M ANU
FACTURES,
May be had at this Oflue.
[Price HAfcF a dollar. J
DEPARTMENT OF STATE:
I ;HE RE BY certify that I have received
official communication of a Decree of
the National Convention of France, where
of the following is a tranflaticn
Decree of the National Convention of
the 23d of May, which declares that the
veflels of the United Scates are not com
prehended in the pnrvieu of the decree of
the 9th of May.
The National Convention after hav
ing heard the report of it's committee
of public ftfety wishing to maintain
the union eftablilhed between the French
Republic and the United States of A
merica, decrees that the vessels of the
United States are not comprehended in
lies dijpofitions'] the purvieu of the decree
, I ? t , h °f M ?y. conformably to the
1 a .' t ' c ' e °* 'he treaty executed the z stl*
Of February, 1778.
A true copy. Le B R U N.
Civen under 1117 hand this otli day of*
September, 1793.
Th : JEFFERSON.
To be Sold or Let,
T(Ani of this immediate tWJfio* givtx.}
HA I handsome, well-built three story new
house, situate on the call fide of foutk
•ourth-ftreet, near the Indian Queen, Philadel
'hia. This situation Is valuable, being in ■
:enlral part of the city, and convenient to the
Janlcs and public offices. The house is 2e feet
n front, and, with its offices, extends nearly io»
eet backwards. It has the privilege of an alley
b feet wise' The offices are three stories high,
ind, together With the house, are built of brick :
hefecontain five apartments, besides a walh house,
; htm havc fl,e P'aces. In the dwell
ng house itfelf, there are nine rooms and eighc
ire places : fix of the rooms are spacious, and all
alhionably finifbed. The garrets are ceiled: the
ia"--cafe IS elegant. There is a good cellar under
he whole, and in the yard a pump.
And to be Soldi
230 Acres ofunimproved land,lß milesffrom the
hnving town of Harrifburg, Pennsylvania. This
ral lies in a valley, and is said to be verv gool
arming land. There are one or more mills near
ne premises. The river Juniata is about five
lilies dillant ; wnence it Is ooatable into the Suf
;uehanna, and thence to Harrifburg. Also
A defirabu retreat, or farm, in Newtown, they
own of Bu <*s, Pennsylvania ; contain
i.g nearly 15 acres of land, naturally very rich,
id«"hv M y lc '» surrounded on all
ides by public streets or roads ; and with
efent advantage, be converted jnto town lota
hat would prove of growing importance. Thero
s a commodious brick house upon the premises,
wo stories in height, having four rooms on a
ioor, a spacious entry or paflage throughout, and
' cellar extending under the whole house. It is
accommodated with out houses. About threo
teres are occupied b, an orchard of the bed graft
id Newtown pippinsr distant from Philadelphia
i 5 miles ; from Trenton 9 ; from Bristol 11 ; an,l
s within five miles of the river Delaware. Tho
ituation is extremely healthy ; the profpefls a<e
harmingly pifturefque, and the neighbourhood
Htords a genteel focierv.
Befidei the above t
Two corner lots in .he town, of one acre each,
are otfereo for sale, together with about 16 acres*
>t excellent land, half a mile from the town,
jnder the best culture and improvement. Twa
or three of these acres are In timber.
Liketvi/e :$ be Sold,
An tfiimailt farm of 53® aC res, in the county*
>f cheller, 39 miles from Philadelphia : ,0® acre,
e I C , a / C ° the r ' cbell bottom - The
" tm *, land en J°)'« » kind, ftrongand fertile foil,
S we.l watered, and admiiably adapted to tha
fifing of gram and all kinds of stock j at prefenc
here are nearly 30 acres of made-meadow, ani
o or 30 more of witered meadow mav be mads
t pleature : atc.t 200 are luxuriantly covered
vith a variety of valuable timber. Upon tbo
■ rem.fes, there are a farm house, barn, &c. «
lever-tai/mg ftrcam of good water, and a molt
.roduflive apple-orchard covering about fix acres :
■he fruit or a good and lading quality : the pur
•haler may be accommodated with all or any part
>f the stock or farming utensils upon th. place.
'f ° f th| is important, lying 0 ,«
)oth fides of the main road, and bounded fouth
■'ly by the road to Philadelphia through Down
ng-town {-whence it is dirtant 12 or 13 miles t
Jn the noith it abounded by the road to Warwick
urnace, situate but a few miles distant. At this
Joint, the premiles enjoy a capital stand both foe
' " ore sad Uvern < :,nd »lfo »n eligible situation
or a village, which would here have foms
-ommanJicg advantages, and might be an object
; 0 any gentlemen wishing to found an extensive
ind profitable lettlement. On the one fide, it
lias a direct communication with Downine's
town j and With the rich and populous fettlemeae
Ot coneltogo valley on the other, both lying with
a.<ho" r,dc of th <= Fiict. There is already *
■narket here lor produce at the Philadelphia prices
--the neighbouring iron-works creating a conftanc
emand. Plenty of good limestone mav be had
withm 5 miles 01 the premises,. and a t»
make use ot it will be conveyed by the proprie
or ,f required. In /hort this farm delerves the
ttentlon of any person or persons inclined to
poffefles ° advanta S cs such as those i;
hi Ihc T'.V 0 thc fevcral premises are indifputa
, ; an l. hc ptopt'eiur will warrant to defend
them. The terms of sale, for all or any of th.
ands, will be maoe accommodating to the purch.-
ers farther particulars, apply lo the fub
criber, at No. o, south Fourth-street, or at hi.
Philadelphia; rnCf °' Ma ' k " " d Thifd " a -'..
Aug. 10 ROBERT SMQCK
■- ■ 6 '«■ w. t. f.
PRINTED BY
GUILDS and SWA IN E»
*T TUfi 1 h * FFJCE no. 209, HIGH-STilEiT,'
WEAR IiKTH-tTKEIT,
'XliftDlLtlUAi