«
Numb. 44 of Vol. ll.] SATURDAY, March 30, 1793.
For the National Gazette.
THROUGH the channel of jour ufeful
paper, Mr. Frencau, I beg leave to
fuggelt a few hints to, the soon to be, legi
timate children of Madam Median a.
This old lady, 'tis said, is now big with
youngs and will, in all probability, be short
ly delivered of a numerous brcrod.
How well soever informed in inecfical,
metaphysical, philosophical, and other mat
ters, the young onesmay be, feme sugges
tions, the refulc of observation, refpedting
the manner of obtaining institutional evj
dence of p-ofefiional abilities, may not be
unfeafotiable.
Know then, dearly beloved doctors in
embryo, that the birch, *- some time age
used, with the molt salutary effeits, in tilt
family of the aforefaid good old lady, ha;
been miflaitl. I cannot inlift that this in
formation iso. i.uich importance to von.
particularly when it is recollected, thai
clullneft, ignorance, and vanity, alone were
objeitsof correction. It would be pre
judging to iiilinuatc that any of you could
be clafled under either of the above heads.
At any rate this keep in mind, ' out ofyour
own mouths will I, " at some future day,
" judge you." Should gangrene orproua
flejh appear, (kill, urged by humanity, will
prescribe the knife or cauflic-
As you well know, the regulations o)
Alma Mater require, that each candidate
shall produce and publish a thelis on some
medical fubjedt; which is to be conlidered
the test of his capacity for dispensing health
to the nations. When we come to exa
mine this requisition, it really is not so ty
rannical as it, at sirs.' fight, appears ; for
remark, it docs not fay that the candidate
mult write. No, no. This would be both
arbitrary and unjust, nay it would be anti
federal.
A young man, for instance, troubled
.with excessive weight of brains, and niiid
dinefs of intellect, cannot perhaps conve
niently write, and yet he may be of good
ly appearance, flow spoken, and of fulemn
and cautious dememour. But what mult
he do? Let him get a friend to vamp up
something for liirn, out of the mass of mat
ter, already cut and dry to his hand, giving
the cheat as much as polfible th* complec
tion of originality. This done, he fathers
the bantling, makes 3 malk of his face,
mimicks the owl, and under the stile and
title of Do(lor proceeds, without either
fear or dread, to the business of death 1
It is, I am informed, optional with the
candidate in what language to write, on
this occasion. This undoubtedly is an
agreeable latitude of indulgence', andfuch
as may be beneficial under certain circum
stances. Subjetts, for inltance may be so
trite, that prudence would suggest the
propriety of difguifmg the borrowed ideas
in Come foreign tongue, latin for inft nee
But Should the candidate be ignorant of
this language, what a dreadful dilemma !
Here also recurrence mult be had to
foreign aid. A journeyman can be em
ployed, (consoling idea 1) who, magician
like, will, perhaps so effectually me t amor
phofe the fu'ojett. that even the original
author would not be able to know his own
ideas in their new dress. So much the
better. Should inaccuracies, 01- misappli
cation of terms be discovered by the hawk
eyed critic, it is a matter of very little im
portance, as this language, with some
others of equal infignificance, is proscribed,
and very jiillly, for they were dangerous
to liberty.
Finally, gentlemen, I beg leave to re
mind you, and urge with the mod pointed
persuasion, that yon would pay eCpecial at
tention to the bulinefsof dedication. This
particular will be of more real advantage
to you ill your future eftablifliinents, than
the fubjeft matter of your refpe<stive dis
sertations. Your situation is perfectly
similar in this to a man's, who goes to con
siderable expence and trouble in prepar
ing an entertainment. Now, if this man
be a clever fellow, in the liberality of his
heart, he will invite a numerous compa
ny ; and as men are, not unfrequently,
governed by interclted motives, he will be
particular in the choice of fucli as may
Ji3ve it in their power to befriend liiin
1110 ft.
Aghin. Would you not consider that
mill a fool, who alter he had prepared a
funiptuous banquet, invited but one ioli
tary individual r the hint I doubt not will
be ftifficient.
Therefore, I entreat von. to confnl:
your own interest, and invite every mo
thers foil of the profeflors, to your tiafti.
Impartial Review.
By P. FRENE AU: Publijhed Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
A!fo, the members of Congress of your
native slate ; your old school matters ; all
your country cousins, and maiden aunts by
your mother's fide.
You may. poflibly, be unacquainted with
the modes of invitation curtomary on oc
casions of this nature. I will therefore
suggest fume ideas relative thereto, but not
before I heartily curse the rascally gram
marians, who have limited you to three
degrees of coniparifon, whereas you have
now need of three dozen.
In addrelfing the profeffors, tell them by
all means that they are " friends of the
science of medicine." Talk of the "le
gitimate principles of their respective
branches" their " humanity, liberality
and great ability, to relieve the dittrefTed.
and to smooth the avenues to death." Lei
them know you think them " equally ref
pefted in Europe and America for uriiver
faj information as inen.of science, superi
or abilities, politeness of manners, une
qualled eloquence, perspicuity, and hap
py talent of communicating ideas on tilt
most abstruse fubjefts, as lecturers."
Members of Congress mutt be " dittin
juilhed patriots, conspicuous in difTeminat
ng knowledge in the iegai department
minently refpefted for political abilities
ilifinteretted fentinients and canoid decifi
sns, publicly exhibited on the political the
itre."'
As to school matters, the very found i
:o me the fame as the " recollection of a:
;fcape from a lion or abe;ir."' Those re
■Trend fathers, the -country coulins, anc
:he maiden ladies, I reiign, gentlemen, ti
t'our own discretion. Manage them a
eon, in your wisdom, fnall think proper.
March 26, 1793. GALEN.
JAMAICA,
January 31 —to February 16.
We learn from the windward islands,
hat the republican party at Martinique,
Jaudaloupe, &c. have so completely tri
jmphed over the advocates tor ariltocra
:y, as to banilh every one ol them from
he islands.
Upwards of five hundred of tliefe ex
jorted unfortunates have implored Iheiter
it St. Kitts, the governor ot" which is
ibout to charter a large veli'el to carry
hem to England.
In the latl and decisive engagement be
ween the two parties, each allilted by their
-efpective dependants, it is said, that more
:han three thousand of the latter were
billed on the spot.
There is not remembered a period dur
ng peace, when so many ships y.ere in
Kmgttonharbour as at present. Liguanee,
unfortunately for the planter and Ihip hol-
Jer, will this year contribute but afcan
ty portion of sugar for their freight home.
Some Englifn botanifls are now said to
be exploring the continent of South-Ame
rica, and to meet with every encourage
ment. Save emancipating their depen
dencies from that abominable rigid yoke
under which they are bound, the Spani
ards can fcarcety perform a more accepta
ble service to mankind, than by aiding men
of science in the discovery of the many
valuable plants with which the continent
abounds, and in the bringing their produa
and virtues into general use.
Extract of a letter from Bridgetown, Bar
bados, dated the 29th iujl.
" Many inhabitants of this town alTem
bled, and had the effigy of Thomas Paine,
with his " Rights of man," carried about
the town ; and afterwards burnt him on
the parade, in the green, jlift above the
Cage, while the band played God save the
king." [In the true spirit of fw-ine, who
are known to be so enamoured of the mire*
& filth of their enclosure, as frequently to
lacerate the hand that lets down the fence
for their deliverance.]
We underftaud, that an Irish paper
(which we h«ve not yet seen) mentions
Col. Tarletou's difinilfion frim his Majes
ty's service, for having displayed too ninth
civisM a la mode a republique.
The Providence (Capt. Bligh) will not
fail for Great Britain before the latter end
of March. An earlier arrival in a north
ern latitude than the lhip will have, in con
fequencc of this delay, might prove ex
tremely prejudicial to many ot the plants
intended for his Majefty'sgarden.
In addition to the bread-fruit and the
many other valuable plants sent to the. bo
tanical garden, Dr. Dancer has lately re
ceived from the society ot Arts some feeds
of the New Guinea nutmeg, a spice little
inferior to the nutmeg ot the Moluccas—
Should they succeed, they will prove a va
luable article for cultivation in this island,
account of the high prices
of the common nutmegs in great demand.
The breadfruit plants are divided as fol
low.; : To the county of Surry 83 ; to the
county of Middlesex 83 ; to the county ol
Cornwall 83.
On board the Providence are one or two
large boxes, and I'ome other ufeful arti
cles, made from the wood of the tree. It
is of a close hard grain much resembling
mahogany.
'The south sea plants, intended for the
leeward part of the island, are to be con
veyed there by his majeity'* brig Afliftanpe,
commanded by Lieut. Portlocke. Sl.e is
appointed to fail in a day or two.
Such of the plants as are to be deposited
at the garden, late Mr. Ealt's, were land
ed from the Providence yefleiday at i'ort
Augusta and Greenwich
Feb. 15. His majesty's Ihip Providence,
Capt.* Bligh, and brig Alliitance, Lieut.
Portlocke, failed Jefterday morning : the
■ormer for Mo: ant Bay, a.id the latter for
Savanna la Mar.
We are.afl'ured as a fact that, for the fix
large breadfruit plants, the property oi
Capt. Bligh, and now on board the Provi
dence, an opulent gentlemen offered the
sum of fix hundred guineas, which tin
Captain politely refufed,«declaring it to be
his intention to place them in the Botanii
garden, as a present to the country. A
noble intlance of felf denial that tc
our adinirationoi his character, and .vhich.
we triift, will not, for the honor of the
country, be forgotten.
The Otaheitan apple tree, the fruit oi
which is said to be of filth exquilite flavour,
grows in its native foil in fucii great quan
tities that Captain Bligh entirely wooded
the Ihip with its timber. The wood is
light, of srgreyifli hue, and, in filbltance.
fomewh.lt resembling common pitchpine.
The St. Vincent's collection of plants,
whkh are to be taken home by Captain
Bligh, has been landed and placed under
the ftiperintendence of a gentleman emi
nently qualified td fee that juftic? is done
them while they remain here. Dr. An
derfon, who has the ftiperintendence of
his majelty's gardens at that island, ha;
been collecting ever lince the Bounty firO
commenced her voyage, three years ago,
and made several voyages to Guiana and
other islands for the sole purpose of col
lecting native plants to enrich the collec
tion.
Those who are pofTefTed of the bread
fruit plant, fliould consider them as a sa
cred triift deposited for public benefit.
Independently of the immense distance of
the island whence they were brought, there
was not a plant onboard the Providence
that does not, on a fair computation,
including the prcfents made to the natives,
colt government five pounds sterling.
Taking in the efiiinates the expence ol
the outfit of the Bounty, her fubfeqtien!
loss, and that of the Pandora, togethei
with the cost of Capt. Bligh's last expedi
tion, the procifring the breadfruit trees.
&c. will not have cost government lefsthan
one hundred thousand pounds flcrling.
The whole lift of the plants., brought
from Otaheite by the PfoVidence, amount
to 595 in number.
The Providence touched at Timor for
the express purpose of making an attempt
to obtain the nutmeg plant, but notwitii
ftanding all Capiain Bligh's vigilance and
enterprise, not one could be procured.—
In exploring part of the country, one of
the fruit was found, which \> as planted,
and there is some hope that h will grow.
There are two male natives of Otaheite
on board ; one of them, we understand, is
going to England, at thedelire of hiscoun
tryinen, to learn the bufmefs of a ftiip
wright; the other came away without the
knowledge of Capt. Bligh—he secreted
himfelf in the (hip and was not discovered
till (he had been four days at sea. The
small pox being very general at St. Vin
cents, Capt. Bligh had them inoculated,
and they are doing well. The deport
ment of both is extremely gentle and tin
embarrafled, and they arc matters of a few
ps the molt familiar phrases in our lan
guage.
Capt. Bligh could gain no intelligence of
the mutineer Chriltian, and his accompli
ces, who were on board the Bounty. V hen
they returned to Otaheite, alter executing
their infernal project, the natives, fufpeft
ing some mifihief from the nou-appear
ance of the commander and the gentle
men with fiim, laid a plan to seize the yet -
[Total No. 14.8.]
fcl and crew, but a favorite female of
Chriitian's betrayed the cle/i|;u of her coun
trymen ; he put to sea in the night, anil
the next morning the llisp was nearly out
of fight.
Supposing (fays a - London paper) that
we should enter into an immediate war
with France upon so insignificant a subject
as the Scheldt, what would it end in at
lafl ? When would there be a profpe£t of
peace ? Can we possibly believe that a Jin
gle campaign will compel the French, a
desperate people, to lay down their arms,
and restore the monarchy ? Have we not
reason to believe they would continue the
war lor ever, rather than do this ? Did
not the war with America continue for se
ven years and cod this nation eighty milli
ons of money, with the blood of an im
mense number of people ? And is it pro
bable that a war with France would colt
uslefs? Belides, the French would have
every encouragement to continue the war
with us ; because it would be a gainful
war to them. They would enrich chem
felves by the defh'Utiion of our commerce;
they would lit out swarms of privateers,
and be amply repaid by the capture of our
valuable Ihips from all parts of the world.
The Americans, if they did not join
them openly, would line their coads, and
all the coasts of America, with their pfi
rareers, under French colours ; andfearce
a (hip wouldefcape in their palfage from
the Weft-Indies. The smugglers 011 our
own coalts would do the fame, and join in
the general depredation, as they did dur
ing the lalt war. Whereas our merchant*
would have no incitement to tit out priva
teers, to make reprisals ; because neither
the French nor the American ships would
be of fufficient value to indemnify ti:e ex
pence, or even to defray the charges of
condemnation. But a further conlidera
tion is, that the Dutch, as we know from
former experience, would throw the bur
den and expence of the war upon 11s, be
ing a people governed entirely by their
own interest, and likely to desert us before
the end of the war. It would, therefore,
be a wife flep to avail ourfelvesof this fe-1-
rifh propenliryof the Dutch, by perfuadinj
ihern, it would be contrary to their inur
. to contend with the Frcnth, at this
urne, about so infignificant a matter as the
Scheldt. '
For it is evident they can gain nothing
by the war: & th.it we can ga'm
the war ; but that both 1 ;.■: inevitably
lose much.—And after all, v. iten peace liiail
be made, it is probable that it will he with
the humiliation of acknowledging the
French Republic, after an immense ex
pence of blood and treafcre ; a circum
llance which may be avoided, if we act
wifely, and (leer clear of the prtfent con
tinental disputes.
If we guard ourselves at home againlt
the machinations of republicans and level
lers, and take care to pretlrvethe internal
peace and fafety of the nation : which the
alien bill, the embodying the militia, and
the aflocUtions in defence of the confuta
tion, seem well calculated to do ; we may
flill preserve our present superiority anions
all nations, and continue to enjoy the t-lef
(ings of peace in an extended commerce,
an influx of wealth, and a higher tide of
:i:ofperity, while the poweis on the lon
:inent are ruining themselves by bloody and
;xpenfive wars, the natural 10nfcq11cr.ce
}f their folly and wickedness."
Extract of a letter from London, dated
January 14.
" The French ought by 1:0 means to I.p
-onlidercdas a feeble enemy, forthefert <->f
.var they are likely to v age. Thtywill
Iriveonly to play upon our trade : and it
ireients, in e\ery corner of the world,
emptations which will procure them af
iOance. All their ov.n Well-Indiamtn
ire lying idle in port; their sailors are :t
jurthen to the maritime departments from
ivant of employment ; these will be im
mediately brought into use ; and wc are
.infortunatcly warranted by experience,
when wefay, that even on the Royal i x
:hange of London they will find lunds for
:l:e lucrative pursuit.
Never, we have said, did this country
filter on a war. so ill prepared to carry ic
on with vigour. The trick of Mr. Pitt's
"chems of finance w ill now be unaiiiinouf
iy developed. There arc at Icaft ten mil
lions of unfunded debt, which a£ts for the
moment as so much fictitious wealth, as
the bills are in circulation, hut which limit
be provided fer by taxes before v.c c. u
make a loan.He -.ropofcJ, merely as t'.ie meanj of
' hj the funds, th.it the floating fuui 1 -
i;i die court of chancery Ihouid be placed
,u the Hocks, under the condition that tue
nation ihould pay whatever 10.0 theie
mij.hr fail 0:1 tliem. Between 3 ami
400,000 pounds were at ninety-three and
upwards. 1 henat«on thereiOre will ha\e
a'-tofoof 16 or 17 per cent, to make good
on this fll ni—The country banks operate
itiil more fatally ; lor by encouraging the
circulation of paper for the benefit ot the
stamp.our manufacturers have been able to
c >.d their trade greatly beyond their ref
peitive capitals. The whole was carried
on by paper, while the ready money, was
veiled 111 the funds. The fall of theft
funds would now make it fatal to fell out,
and hence discount i> almost totally flop
ped. Let this alarm continue, or let us
be plunged into a war, and mull be
come of the manufacturers ot England ?
These are at left grounds of precaution,
which it would have been wellforproud a
ristocracy to nave travelled over belorethej
gave a loose to their grand and glorious
indignation, merely because the men cho
sen to conduct the affairs ol France hat.
not well-born minds."
PHILADELPHIA.
March 30.
. 011 Wednesday lalt arrived here th<
Ihip Dispatch, Cape. Hodgdon, from Lis
bon, which port Ihe left the 20th of Febru
ary. Just as'Capt. Hodgdon was gettinj
under way from the harbour, the piloi
who brought hiin out, informed him, thai
Mr. Bulkley. a refpeftablc merchant ir
Lilbon, had told the pilot, that an expref:
liad, that moment, arrived from France
with an account of war being declared of
the part of the French nation againfl al
the combined powers of Europe, who ha<
refufed to acknowledge their indepen
dence, or rejected their ministers, endea
vours to negociate for peace, viz. Rullia
Pruflia, England, Holland and Sardinia ;
Spain and Portugal Were not mentioned,
neither does the Captain recolleit thai
Aullria was amongst the number, but thi -
maybe owing to their being already al
war with that power. There were 41
fail of French fliips of the line ready to ge
to sea.
Tiie general opinion, however, was.
that this war will be chiefly carricd on b)
mercantile (hipping, as the merchants anc
every person of ability in France, will fil
out fighting veflels at their own expence,
which the government will commiflion.
There was no mention made at Lifoon of
any injury being offered, or intended by
the French to the queen or her childrrti—
neither did the French accounts fay a word
of any intention to bringher to trial. The
ilory reported by the Englilh ariftocratu
prints, of the king having been executed
in the court of the temple, in so indecent a
manner as was lately publilhed, turns oul
tobeagrofs falfhood, for it was at the
Place de Louis XV. and performed with
great Solemnity. That the French people,
inltead of being diflrafted or divided bj
tliofe domettic feuds which existed previ
ous to the death of Louis, have all united
in one lirm pha!anx;&by an open,bold con
duit, declared war againfl: their enemies,
whom they are dcrjrmined to fight, whilll
a man, of their ten millions of soldiers re
main, and is able to carry a firelock. It
vindication of their conduct, it is said, the>
mean to pnblifli appeals to the people ol
Great-Britain, &c. stating, that it was
with the utmost relu£tance, and not until
they had been drove to this dernier resort.
that they had adopted ftich disagreeable
measures.
The ensuing fummcr, we fear, will fur
nifh a dreadful feene 011 the flage of the
old world. \_Am. Daily Advr.'
£ From the Baltimore Athertifer, of
March 26.]
Captain Jofliua Barney, of the fhipSam
fon, arrived here from the Havana, which
place (lie left on the 10th inflant, informs,
that the day before he failed, the Spanifi
frigate Juno, arrived there from Ferrol in
28 days, with dispatches for the different
Spznifhgovernments. The advices by the
Juno were, that the king of France had
been decapitated—thathoflilities had com
menced between England and France, and
that there was an hourly expeftalion of a
declaration of war between France and
Spain ; that the Empress ofßuflia had ac
knowledged the republic of France, and
declared herfelfher ally. The Juno flop
p.'d but four hours off the Havana, and
men proceeded to la Vera-Cruz, to pre
vent the failing of a 74 gun fliip and a fri
gate, which had gone down to take 011
board eight millions of dollars, till a fur
ther convoy ihould arrive. Captain Bar
ney also informs, that an embargo was tu
take place atthe Havana, the day he left it.
Lord George Gordon, who in 1786 was
fentcnced to seven years imprisonment in
the Newgate prison in G. Britain, was to
li ive been liberated on the 28th of Janua
ry 1 dt ; the term of his confinement expi
ring 011 tiiat day.
" The fcveral banks at Boflon frill flop
discounting, owing to a jeaioufy of eatlc
other, and the-wan: of confidence in tlv.
di.-cttora, which lias thrown the commer
cial part of tiie town into great coniuiion,
&. has bankrupted many per foil, oi'hereto
fore good credit, wh<> had wilhed to en
large their views, and the
terms-held o«t by the various banks for
ilifconnting, whose fiulden lloppage had
nearly effected their ruin ; in Short we arc
informed that thole banks are become the
links of speculation, and even are thoi:;!'
lo be the very funds for those purpol'es,
and all concerned therein ; ffocknolden
are strongly fufpe£ted to be inte relied ii
ihofe manoeuvres, that tlie public papei
may be bought up at a depreciated rate,
and then appreciated in their hands. V.
hear the government of JVlaiiachufctts ai >.
looking into thele affairs. &mean to expose
the principles upon which all the l.tte flop
pages have taken place. Banks begin to
be considered as the mod dangerous of ail
yftenis, and are elteemed only as inftitu
ions by which the Stockholders may mo
nopolize all the most valuable real propei -
:y of the state, and instead of being aids to
:r.ide, are becomenuifances to society, and
f not carefully guarded, may become the
übjett of popular fury, and the direftort
ind stockholders, considered as the ftanui
in.lifers of old, and the office derogator>
to a citizen. We are happy to know
that the bank in this liate is under the di
•eftion of gentlemen, whose wifdoin anc
foi elight does not permit them to exceei
the bounds of prudence, and are conten
not to exceed the limits of a moderatt
interest, and who chufe rather to ferv<
:hofe who have milled to their generolitj
n the continuance of discounting only foi
them, rather than to embark in risque
which may bring any obloquy, or the ap
pearance of any danger to themselves.*'
( N. Hamp/ltirepaper.)
By private letters from Canada, we ar<
nlormed, that republican principles nr<
irevalentin that province.—That revolu
ion societies are formed and hold fre
|uent meetingt, and the de:reafe of mo
larchical folly and valfalage becomes con
picuous in the complexion of their public
papers. The affairs of France are eager
y fought after and regularly publilhed
ind the Rights of Man investigated wit!
ividity ; on the whole, it appears higlil;
irobable that the extensive province o;
Canada, w ill at an early period, add one
:o the number of independent tree repub
ics, to grace the western hemisphere.
[Vermont Paper.]
Further accounts by the Jay, fron
Ciork, arrived at New-York, state, that in
had been received at Cork a few
lays previous to her failing, from Dublin
a hich mentioned that the Dublin volun
eers had lately been under arms—and ii
tew uniform ; on the buttons of whicl
nere engraved the Irish Harp without the
>own, in contempt of Royalty—the con
equence of this was. the regulars wen
mmediately ordered out to disperse them
n order to prevent the volunteers railing
iny tumult—these citizen soldiers, whet
the regulars came up to them, and mad:
known their bulinefs, gave them to under
Hand, they were determined not to yieli
without making some reliftance. The)
then exchanged a few fliots, and number:
fell on both hdes, amounting in the whole
to upwards of 30, when both parties fel
Dack and retired.
[From Charleston, March 16.
In the French windward islands, ano
ther revolution has taken place. Ihe re
treat of the combined armies from Franct
dccided the contest in the colonies infavoi
of the democrats —and the adherents ti
the old government have been obliged tc
Peek refuge and Ihelter in Grenada and St.
Chriltopher's
As a war between Great Britain am
France seems now inevitable, we with tc
call the attention of the American mercan
tile interelt to the peculiar predicament in
which the United Slates Hand, in cafe oi
such rupture.
To this end we have publilhed the trea
ty of alliance entered into between theft
Hates and France, in the year 1778.
By the nth and 12th articles of thi:
treaty, it appears clearly, that it Great-
Britain makes any attack on the Frencl
polfelllons in America (e.g. Weft-Indies]
we arc bound to aflift the latter. Now.
>t is almost felf-evident that the firft offen
live preparations of Great-Britain will lie
ceffaiily beagainit the French Weft-Indies
not only as they are the rnoft vulnerable
and difitffefted, but also as they promii'e
more national advantages than conquelts,
which inuft be purchased at much greatci
L-xpenditure of blood and treasure.
Whilst this however, appears the clear
interpretation of the text, we know not
how far ourprefent executive government
may consider themselves bound by a trea
ty entered into by powers 110 longer exist
ing on either tide the Atlantic.
At all events, the war will place this
continent in ail aukward lituation, be
tween their natural predilection and mul
tiplied private ties to Great-Britain, and
their gratitude and public engagements to
France.
A veflel, arrived a fen.' dayj u lien:
Cap,e FraiKois, is said to have brought in
formation of the arrival oi a ihip lrom
Fra'nce in 27 days, with oi
war having been declared in 1 ranee ag linii
England.
By letters from Cape Francois, receiv
ed by gentlemen in this town, dated Fe
bruary 14, we are informed,'that the day
before an express packet arrived there
from Brett, informing that war had been
declared between France and England—
that, in confeqnertce, an eittbargo had
been laid 011 all the wild- in Cape Fran
cois, and that the produce of France had
risen 100 per cent, in conference.
Extract of a letter from Rlartinigo, datei
February 13
" We have much talk here of war witl
England. Preparations for it are making
This day a proclamaiion has been reai
throughout the town, forbidding any fo
reign vessels whatever, to enter any por
of the island except St. Pierre, after this day
and all that nre in the ports at present, an
permitted topurchafe no more goods thai
the amount of what they entered at tin
cuitom house will pay for."
We hear from the town of Paterfon, ii
New Jersey, th.it a mechanic of that plan
lias invented a wheel to work by wind, ii
a horizontal position, which bids lair t(
become of great public utility ; the con
ftru&ion, in molt parts, differs material!)
irom any hitherto attempted for this cle
ment, and is in all points applicable where
wind, water, fleam or horses are necefla
ry.~ It is calculated to receive the wine
without the lealt change in the polition oi
the wheel, let it come from whatcvei
point it may, which totally removes the
objettion to the European vertical wind
mills, which require turning or setting al
every change of wind that takes place ;
and it is well known that nearly two third:
of the wind acting against the fails of one
of these mills is totally loft in point of pow
er, being exerted in a line of direSior
with the axis, while the construction ol
the horizontal wheel admits without the
lealt diminution of power the whole force
of the wind to ast upoi» it, and from its
tapability of compression ill a peculiar
manner during its revolutions, nearly al!
counter resistance is done away, and this
machine upon its horizontal principles, is
fully equal to the European vertical
wheels, with only one third of the fame
quantum of canvass ; and in cafe of gust. l
or sudden squalls, the attending person.
can in a moment, with the ntmoft ease
throw it out of gear, and totally stop the
wind from having the least effect upon the
wheel, and consequently, prevent all thoft
damages which at fnch tiniest 00 frequent
ly happen, to the very great detriment oi
the mill and injury of the owner.
We hear, that " great discontents pre
vail, in general, among the Farmers over
vvhofe land the Pelaware and Schuylkill
canal is to pass : It is added, that the
work is at present at a Hand, owing to
near 2CO labourers having quitted the cm
ploy in disgust."
Extrad of a letter lrom Eafl fer/c\\
March 16th.
" The enquiry into the conduit of one
nf the great departments will no doubt give
a serviceable check, as far as it has gone.
3lit a renewal of the subject will no doubt
:lo more good. Aristocracy is vegetating
too rapidly in this country : its feeds, I
find, are taking root in individual farms,
lieretofore, as was fnppofed, the retrea
and abode of honest labour, fimpTicitv,
Jomeftic virtue and unambitious indnftry;
in fliort, it is making rapid strides in al
noft every county and, certainly, in every
slate of the unio.i by the flock-jobbing
ind monied interest. If this inlatiable
:hirft was confined to people of narrow
property and labouring under the prelfnre
if pecuniary difficulty, the matter would
lot be so strange ; but it is a fa£t that the
"icli and wealthy, at least too many of them
ire, and will be led blindfold too far into
:he path of speculation to find their way
jack, and in the enel will be compelled to
put on the appearance of voluntary fub
miflion to the very principles they \» mid
have opposed with all their ltrength, had
they been timely guarded against them."
A nuisance has from time immemorial
exifled in the European cities (and from
thence transferred to America) that it is
hoped will in time be done away. "The
French have already aboliflied this relique
of the 3ges of superstition and bigotry.—
In a large city, which is commonly crowd
ed with churches and spires, the tolling
and ringing of the bells nuift be one oi
their molt prominent nuisances. The
hateful knell, which was congenial to the
gloomy habits of monks, and fnch beings,
can by no means be acceptable to a biify
and induflrious laity ; and many there are
w'ho are hurried from the bed of sickness
to the grave in consequence of this fupcr
ltitious abomination."
A memoir on the important subject ol
preserving water in long voyages, was
foinetime since read before the English so
ciety for the encouragement of arts, ma
nufaflures, ar.d commerce. It appears
from experiments that have been made
that caihs burned in the making, till a
crust of clrarry matter is formed over the
whole internal furface of the-ftaves jjJ
preserve the water, put into them, perfect
ly sweet for years. The heads of caiks
uft also be charred, and great care is to
be taken in fitting the heads that as few
chips be made as poliible, every fredi f, )o t
having a tendency to taint the water. '
The electors of the county of Fairfax,
Virginia, have re-elected Richard Bland
Lee, Esq. as .» reprefeiitative in the next
Congress.
France, in cafe of a rupture with Eng
land, will, it is Paid, immediately declare
lier islands independent, fenliblehow inad
equate her naval forces w ortfd be to protect
them a*iinft the combined power of Eng
land, Spain and Holland. If this (hould be
the cafe, we lhall be immediately releafecl
from the guarantee stipulated in the treaty
us alliancc. [Gen. Adv. ]
One of the Paris Gazettes, (Patriate
Francois) among other remarks on a ccr
:ain American publication, makes the All
owing :
" There is now tranflatetl into French,
i book entitled the Ft derail J}, cm: a collec
:ion ofpieiesin favour of the constitution,
jropofed for the United States of America,
iy the Convention of 1787, publtftred i;i
New-York, by Meflieurs Hamilton, Mad
fon, and Jay,citizcns of the United States.
The bookseller, Btutfon, has done France
jreat service, especially in her present cir
-11111 fiances, in publishing this worm, which
s clearly the best the world has hitherto
"een on the fubjefl of confederate govern
ment. It mud be confelied, however, that
11 some places, there are paflages, taken
n certain views, wherein we may remark
in ariftocratical tendency ; but in general
he political maxims are exellent."
Exlratt of a letter from Aux-Cayes, da
ted February 14.
" Tranquility is not yet restored to this
.-olony, and cannot be restored until frelh
r orces arrive, commanded by true republi
cans. Hitherto we have seen only parti
sans of the ministry. Of the three civil
ommiflioners sent us, one failed back for
france without the least notice. San
thonAx is in the north, making procla
nations. and the famous Polverrel, lor
"ome time pallid, residing here, prohibits
:he execution of tliofe proclamations in
:he Weft and South. These two dictators
work us in different directions, and the ef
fect of this unfortunate difigreement is to
keep us in a tlate of deplorable anarchy.
" It is seen, that it would be nectlfary
to form a new colonial alfembly to bridle
the caprice of thole two little despots ; but
it is neceflary to wait until the nation (hall
rrevocably acknowledge two claflesof men
in the sugar 1 Hands, frjr men and slaves ;
Chen, and then only, an alfembly will be
ible to go to work'upon a solid basis, and
we shall know w hat dependence to place
an our property.
" I have always thought, with you, thac
free people of colour Ihould enjoy political
rights, but the enormous crimes of which
they have been guilty by uniting with the
counter-revolutionists.call for punilhment;
and if the guilty are not punilhed the iaws
arc but an empty name.
" We have, for near fix moaths past, re
taken polleffiou of the parish of CAVAIL
lon ; but we are not yet finally fettled up
on our plantations there. We have two
camps, one upon the plantation Labi CHE,
and another in the heights. We have
made a sortie against the rebel slaves.their
camps were destroyed and numbers killed,
and many have returned to their masters.
We are preparing for a second attack, and
are determined not to return until we ef
fect a total defeat of the negroes.
" Some of the rebels, have lately set fire
to the sugar workc in the quarter of des
Ances, belonging to fevera! planters.
" By the lalt courier from Port-Atj-
PRiNCE,we learn, that an American ves
sel has been seized at Fosse, having on
board 6000 mulkets and 1000 pair of pistols,
conligned to the worthy de Jumecourt.
A few days more and th,e province of the
Weft would have been ruined It has been
saved by the courage of the patriotic Borel,
who was so cruelly treated by the perfidi
ous Blanchelande."
Extrall of a letter from a gentleman in
London, to his friend in I\la(fachufett!.
" We have more reasons for leaving Eng- I
land than when you left us: Government
has taken steps which have exasperated the
people againit difl'enters. There have been
several riots, ail fmiiiar to that at Birming
ham, which they attribute to the difl'en
ters. Numbers of alfociations have been
formed by persons of various defcripticns,
to obtain a parliamentary reform, which
persons in power represent as inimical to
government, and designed to overturn the
constitution. Twohundred informations
of seditious books, the attorney-general
hasput upon theiile tobeprofecuted.Paine's
pamphlet has been condemned as seditious
and libellous. The high church party spi
rit rages with intolerable fury ; and the
people envoyra 1;. il.'ov thole in power, will
proceed to ;jrea: excefies : a Sabbath or
two ,-!«o the;- i!r-;"£c<! thr Rev.Mr.Hull, ofNj'.vport-P.ignel out ns lbs pulpit into ths
street, and I underlhind m i:!e him ling
44 Gael fav& the king They were going
to destroy a-gentleman's hoafe at Manches
ter, bur. lie and. his friends defended it—
and a meeting-honfe at Cambridge, but
■were prevented ; these things are laid to
the charge of the fufferers. The militia
are embodied—barrack* are'eredled in va
rious parts of the kingdom, anil the coun
try going to be plunged into a war with
F•. ice.—They have written upon tlv.
walls of Hackney—" D--n Dr. Priestly
and his servants are afraid to steep in t'le
house with him. And if this spirit en
creafes, where (hall we flee to, but to th.j
land of liberty, where you have arrived ;
where we shall meet with the descendants
of those who fled tiieie to enjoy their con
science and their ood. Many good people
think that some dark tempestuous season is
approaching : and those will certainly ail
a wife part, who from circumltancesper
ceiving these calamities approaching, these
itorms arilmg, endeavour, not at all e
vents to weather out the storm, but to
elude its force, and escape its dangers, by
making forfomc secure harbour."
1 William Duer, Esq. is peremptorily cal
led upon in one or the New-York, (cityj
pipers, to enter immediately upon the ex
planation of his alf.iirs (as promised in hi:
letter, dated New York Prijoti, March 24.
1 92) and to exhibit his accounts to the
public view ; to point out the fourcesanc
amount of his lodes: and to conflitute
an adequate fund for the ultimate redemp
tion of the principal and legal interest ol
all his debts.
A Rhode-Island paper mentions an infal
lible method to prevent the canker worm,
palmer worm, and some other infers from
committing their nfual ravages upon apple
orchards. The remedy is 110.other than
inserting a small quantity of quicksilver in
to the body of the tree a little before the
sap begins to ascend. The following is a
detail of the experiments of a reputable
farmer in Rhode-Island, who made this
discovery— 41 He had several orchards, but
the one the experiment was made in, was
an old orchard of very large trees. Nine
trees, the molt central in the orchard, he
bored with a fpike-gimblct about four or
fivefeet from the ground,an inch &an half
or two inches into the tree, rather slanting
the boring downwards. He procured one
ounce of clear quicklilver from an apothe
cary ; half an ounce he inserted into one of
the trees, a quarter of an on ice he inserted
into three trees in equal quant'ties; and
the other quarter of an ounce, as equally
as he could, he divided into five othet
trees. He then (Jugged up the holes tight.
This was done, I think in December.
Some weeks after he took out the plugs,
and found the quicklilver in the fame ftatt
he had put it in. He again plugged up the
holes ; and some time after the sap of tht
trees had began to ascend, he again took
out the plugs,and found the quick ilver was
gone, leaving behind something like the
(lime of a snail. The worms came as thej
had done the year before, and totally de
ft.-oyed all the verdure, &c. of all the tree;
except those nine, which were in as good
order as ever they had been, and yielded
their common plenty of apples, about one
hundred bulhels. The boughs of some oi
the nine trees interlapped, and were inter
woven with the branches of the other
trees ; and he said the fruit upon them was
equally good, while the branches of the
other trees so interwoven among!! them,
appeared as tho' they had been fired. The
tree 3 with the lead quantity of quicksilver
were equally protested or preserved as the
one which had half an ounce. He infertec
the quicklilver with 3 quill open at one
end. and the fide of it cut in the mannei
we make a pen, the more readily to let the
quicksilver into the quill."
We have it from unquefHonnble autho
rity, that in the two towns, Lynn and Read
ing, in Mafiachiifetts ,there are couflantl)
■fifteen hund ed persons employed in manu ■
facturing women's shoes. From the pro
duct of their labour are annually exported
from thence, to different parts of this con
tinent, 450x00 pair of shoes, which makes
a saving to the United States from the fo
reign importations of this article at 4ft
a pair, of 337,500 dollars; and they car
afford their Ihoes on lower terms than car
be imported.
" A total reformation (fays a French pa
per) has taken place in the republic ol
Geneva. Aristocracy and ariflocratic ty
rants are now rooted out, and under the
auspices of France, their governmen thas re
verted to the pure principles of democracy,
and frch as Athens might have cheriflied
in her mod virtuous days. Before this
revolution at Geneva, it is remarkable
that the mad despotic spirit of the tyrants
of Europe had taken full pofi'eflion of the
little ariftpcratic tyrants of this almofl in
visible spot of territory. These diminu
tive infects of despotism had the desperate
and audacious follv to throw their little
weight into the scale of the powers com
bined against France, and far from being
intimidated by the example made of then
neighbour, the late duke of Savoy, tliey
imagined that the victorious forces of
France would be repulsed before their
petty ramparts. In contempt of treaties
they invited Swiss troops into their pay.
It became therefore our duly to deliver
the people of Geneva from the tyranny of
a set of overgrown knaves, whole inso
lence deserved chaflifement, had it been
only for giving an asylum to our rebellious
citizens."
I From the American Daily Ailvertijer.~\
Is there a true American who does not
believe that the French nation is well dis
posed to this country ? Do not all of us
who have either as statesmen, soldiers, or
citizens, taken a part in the revolution feel
this truth ? Do we not wish well to that
nation—exult in their fuccefles, sympathize
with them in their misfortunes, and feel
mortified at their errors ? As men engaged
in an interesting conflict, they cannot be
alwaysright. But th- truefriends of Ame
rica, who will not juflify what they thinl*
wrong, will yet feel as true men ought tc
do—They will espouse the cause of the
abfeht friend —and I fear that the French
nation are conficlered by some in that light.
Whylhould Americans conceal their Sen
timents ? We are all friends of equal poli
tical rights, but not the levellers of proper
ty, as is insidiously represented ; we have
more reason—The fuggeltion is a vile trick
played by the minions of the kings of Eu
rope upon the unsuspecting citizens of thf
nations of the world. The French anc
Americanpj-inciples on this fubje&'coin
cide. Let all the citizens,asfuch,haveequa
riglits under the government, that is,equa
political rights. But this rational fylteu
of equality which is the glory of the Ante
rican free conrtitutions, never meant thai
my indullry ninft: be exercised for another
The difference is so plain that all may fei
it. I may gain £. 10,000, and a thoufaiu
industrious men may gain as much and w<
may all enjoy our earnings and tranfmii
them to our pollerity. But if lam a ty
rant my people are slaves —If I, and one
hundred of my people are tyrants—the red
are slaves in the fame manner —For tyranny
in one or many, excludes the enjoy;:.ent ol
liberty in others of the fame nation. Tht
kings of Europe and their minilVers, have
not a doubt but property will be secure,
3ut they tremble for their exclusive privi
eges, their titles, and their power, anc
knowing that this monopoly turns upon the
monarch as upon a pivot. The prefem
war is of the kingly power againfl that o
:hepeople of the world. It can be plainly
hewn, if it does not appear plain enougl
already, that all the publications on the.
•oyal fide, a flume the principle that equal
ty of property is the object of the French
•evolution, when nothing is more falfe—
The question turns entirely 011 thetquaii
yof political rights in the nation. Thi
jeoplc, we all believe in America, have
■ight to delegate to such perfiino of merit
is they think equal to the t (k, the powers
lecefl'ary for the adminillration of the go
vernment.
Oifmal Pii'iare of the manner of living a
mong the common people, in Ireland—
Extratted from a letter written by Pat
rick o'Hurley, to Mr. Wilberforce, da
ted July 20, 1792.
" Before you set out on your journey tc
Africa- or the Welt-Indies, to examine in
o the miserable situation of negro slaves,
[ beseech you, my dear creature, to flop a
.vhile in poor old Ireland, and take a pte
it the slaves in this country. By my flioul
ny dear joy, but I think you need go no
arther. Here we are Ifarving in the very
and of promife,furrounded wi.h milk and
loney, and all the sweet things of creation,
r'or my own part, I (hall certainly go mad
f some charitable person or other does not
ake compaflion upon myfelf and my poor
amily. My old mother has been bed-rid
or four year.s—my wife not able to do any
hing since flie lay in of her fourteenth
hild, and nothing to do if file was ever so
ible; and whatdo you think, Mr. Wilber
orce, we live upon ? why, four pence a
lay, which is just two {hillings a week, tc
upport the whole of us. The gentleman
:hat I work for rents about two thousand
icres of land in the county of Limerick,
ivell flocked with all forts of cattle, and
producing wheat, barley, oats, &c. in a
nmdance ; and yet, as God is my judge,
leither I, nor my wife, or my old mother,
jr the nine children, which are all that
.leath has left us, has tailed either bread, or
beef, or mutton, or beer iince last Christ
mas day. To all this I know Mr. Wil
berforce will anfvver, How the devil then
Ho you all live, Paddy O'Hurley ? 811 as
:his is really a queltion which I cannot
solve, I'll tell you, in atifwer, how we
L-ontrive to starve. We break our farts
aponpotatoes and spring water; and fome
:imes a few sprats, and sometimes a drop
as buttermilk, and sometimes a grain of
fait, and very often when we grow weak
and agueifh for want of sprats and butter
milk and fait, we moisten our potatoes
with fait tears. Our cabbin, may it please
your honour, is a fort of round building
made of mud and wattles, with a hole in
the top to let the smoke out, when we can
get a bit of fire—in one corner of which,
we keep a pig (which I dare not tell you
how I came by) and in another corner \ie
all pig ourfelvcs, men, women, and chil
dren upon one straw bed. As for cloath
ing, the old woman who never flirs from
under th e straw, has ho use fo.f any : my
wile a.id four girls are pretty near half na
ked ; t!ic five boys intirelyfo; and as for
myfclfl wear an old great coat that was
given to me by the squire's coachman, God
bless him, aml that covers every thing.
1 have a relation who was formerly fet
tled in America, and used to work in t!ie
fame tobacco plantation with the black
Haves; and he allures ms tjhat there is no
comparison between the"manner fhey Jive
there, and in the WelMndies (where he
has alio been) and the way we flarve in
poor old Ireland. The black Haves, he
fays, eat and drink, and dance, and are
cloathed, and are merry, and would think
it the created of all curies to be sent bach
again to their own country, while the pool
white slaves in Ireland can get neither
meat, cloaths or any thing else, and are
every day flying in thotifands to foreign
countries for relief. Let me therefore
entreat you, Mr. Wilberforce, to turn
your bleifed thoughts upon our condition
in Ireland, and let yotir charity begin as
near home as polfible, und in so doing you
will greatly oblige, your obedient servant.
Patrick o'Hurley."
EXTRACT.
" The use of European luxuries, is degra
ding to the virtuous spirit of American Re
publicans. It is a wonder those penetrat
ing geniuses. who are perfectly mailers ol
the whole political arcana—who have tor
tured their invention for schemes to in
crease the revenue \\ ithont oppreflion
have not discovered, that a much greatei
source of revenue than that proposed by
the excise law, is attainable by taxes whiei
inflead of opprefling any part of the com
munity, would enrich the whole. Per
haps this may be doubted by Tome ; but i
very little refteftion on the enormous fun
that would arise from a heavy duty on
each of the following articles, will demon-
Urate the truth of it. Firfl, wines of al
forts, rum, and all other foreign elidillec
(pints, (ilks, velvets, and a thousand othei
European gewgaws—all which are calcu
lated to enervate the minds and bodies ol
our good citizens, to encourage vice am
dillipation among us, and drain us of out
calh. Cards, dice, billiards, &c. ('lhcwel.
bred, who efcapelhe effects of the txcifi
ast, would pay a large portion ofthefeduties;
Heavy taxes on these, and similar evils!
might, in a certain degree, prevent thai
baneful, yet prevailing, viie, gaming—
might operate, in a great meaiure, as j
prohibition to unneccfl'ary importation
and as a flimulus to the improvement o
our own nianufaftures. By this means
our foreign debts would be continually de
;reafuig, and our internal wealth conllant
y accumulating : the necefl'arv expen.es
of government, (I would not be under
llood to include the support of a Handing
army among them), would be freely ant
punctually paid, without foreign loans, 01
that bane of democracy, excise. It ap
p. : s evident tha'a Handing army is requi
lite to support the excise law , and the ex
cife law to support a Handing army. In
terelted men urge the necelfity of a Hand
ing army, by magnifying the dangers te
which the United States a:\. exposed, frou
the depredations of a few naked savages
!i proper men and measures were em
ployed in the adminiflration, the citizen
of the union might cultivate their lands ii
peace, unrlilvurbed by Indians, and the In.
ciians might pursue their favorite employ
nent, unmoleHed by us. When the liber
ties of a nation are attacked by thofi
uhofe bounden duty it is to cherilh ant
protest them, an army beeonres necefl'ar;
n screen the traitors from the juH veil
of the people, as well as to enforei
the execution of those partial edicts, whicl
~re calculated to destroy democracy, am
to ereCt aristocracy on its ruins. Such i:
the excise law ; and, therefore, the aver
lion to it, which generally prevails, doe
not derive its origin front a reluftancy t(
contribute to the support of government
but from aconvifiion of its being, to t+n
iaft degree, partial and opprefiive; partial
as its whole weight rells oil the llroulder
of one particular class of citizens; whih
those who contrived, and those who de
rive their support from it, are unaffeftee
by it ; and oppreflive, as it fliackles hon.e
manufactures, and affords encouragemen
to the importation of foreign luxuries
which ought by all means to be discounte
nanced irr such a country as this, which i
capable of yielding at leait.all theneceflarie:
of life in the greatelt proftifron."
[from CorreJpendents.~\
The future political happiness or mise
ry of the United States will in a grea:
ineafure depend upon the nature of tin
information that is conveyed to the peo
ple through the medium of free prelies.
Time was, when an afluming party, njo
narchifls in their hearts, and rapacious vul
tures in practice, imagined by puffing ofi
every meafnre from complaifaut prejj'es.
they could mould the people and the con
fiitution, in a few years, into whatevei
lliape they pleased, as belt adapted to »::■
fuer their own ambitious or mercenary
views. Forfome time the people fuppo
n. d a great and/killing light "had appeared
in Ifrad" togihde their licps in tlie path
nf knowledge. Time, however, I'.ss till-
covered its gleam to be of the fan:e natwi
with that faTfe light ilfiling from the c- v>.• >
of putrid full in « dark cellar, which hum;
only by means of corruption, ar.d daon'
inltead of directing how to walk in the
right way. Ar.y honed endeavours niadsr
to counteract the nrifcliievotis tendency «
the effuiions of ir.tercfttd paper jobbe. >
and unprincipled (Vriji-iiionger.s mult natii
rally expect to encounter ihe Hide afcfffe
ot an irritated, tho' in feme degree ilitcp
pointed faction, their countlcis train of
runners,and dependants, who, with then'
prompters, arc only waiting an opportu
nity, an<l indeed frequently lament in
some of the public papers, that tht-y have
not already the power, to t eftrstn w isc
they call the licentiousness of such prcfles
as will not condescend to clhnie in with
their own note. The people will, how
ever, judge for themselves, and hat ing al
ready been, in great part, the dupes cf
f'unding-fyilem-inet), and other {lavilh f;. !-
tents imported from Britain, they will'be
cautious how they give full credit to
the mere aflertions oi those whose interell
it is to deceivcand darken the public mind
for purposes that at present ne behind a,
very thin screen ofdifguife, but will fliort
ly be revealed in the glare of full day.
Nothing is a plainer proof of the flrong
propensity to arillocracy, in at leait, many
ut the trading towns of the United States
than the lamentable effufions on the decap
itation of Louis the X\ Ith, and the un
qualified abuse that is lavilhed upon those
who refufe to join in the melancholy con
dolence. The great charge against those
who cannot yet fubferibe to the injultice
of the sentence pafled on the unfortunate
monarch, is ingratitude, on the score of
his having ajjijted and delivered America
ill her hour of distress and difficulty—lc
is well know 11 that the aid furnilhed by
France to this country, under her old gov
ernment, originated in the jealousy cf o;:e
despot towards another : England and
Fiance were inveterate iocs ; another war
between them was an object not very re
mote, and to weaken England by tvei*y
pollible means was then the leading fylieiu
of policy with the French court. Under
this view, the obligation to Louis (indivU
dually) doe-s not appear in a very ft ri king,
[joint of view, particularly, when we coj.-
ider further, that, when the war was en
:ied, the fame policy manifelled a jcaloify
i>f our prolperity, and edia upon cd;ct
Ihewed a llrong inclination to clip the
wings of the " new republic."—lt may be
remarked, that it ill becomes 10/eigners,
who have been bred tip idolizers of royal
ty, to abuse (he good people of the United
states tor not joining them in chanting the
jraifes of fallen despotism. if they ihem
elves are fuft'e. Ed (while here) to ling th.ni
ir, peace, let them not prcftime to force it
upon others who think it their firlt and
jreat duty to abhor kings, despots, and
.very species of kingly government. If
:here be any American w ho mourns tor the
fallen monarch, and yet counts as nothing
ihofe multiplied murders ot the feoplz,
which are no more than a confequencc of
'lie usurpations of kings, he mult be of
the degenerate class, who have facrificed
every benevolent sentiment to that fordid
and felfifli habit, which, with the Hidden
accumulation of wealth, hasformcd a le
cond nature, and will in time, if not check
rtl, (tamp our national character.
" l'cr feir and nature, iinlt'd in une gicat frame,
Shews true telr-love and nature are the Ume.
Eternal matter to one centre brings
Men turn'd to beads, and infetis dianjj'd t king' :
Who dares with lorce on r>aiure's chain to itr; Ue,
On men or infers jars the chain alike,
On lelf, uhich changing, never quits the chain
in lite or death transmits or ioy or { ain."
Just come to Hhnd, from Pittsburgh, a'.d to
be Soldby John M'Cuj.locii, No. i,
North Thirdflreet.
MODERN CHIVALRY :
CONTAINING TIIE
Adventures of Capt. J. I ARE ACQ,
A N 1)
Teague O'Regan, his fe>rvant,
VOL. 111. .
J. M'CULLOCH Has aljo for SrJe,
Spectator, S vols.
Goldlmith's History «f animated Nature, S
vJfs.
Blackftone's Commentaries, 4 vols.n
Smith's Wealth of Nations, 3 vols.
Moore's Travels, 2 vols.
lirydona's Tour, through Sicily and Malra.
Montague's Travels.
Rights ot Women, i>y Mary Woollionc:aft,
Seneca's Morals.
Junius' Letters;
-Knox's Eflays, 2 vols.
Peter Pindar, 2 vols.
Cullen's Pra&icc ot" Physic, 3 vols.
Humphries'Woilcs.
Zimmerman on Solitude
Preceptor, 2 vols.
Evelina, 2 vols.
Eifkine's seleCt Sermons.
Anderfon's Sermons on Faith.
The Child's InftruClor j beinya Spelling: Bork
on a new Plan : By a Teacher in Philadelphia.
The Mocking-Bird : a Collection ot a
number of which aie ftt to Mulk.
The American Letter Wiiier.
Fairy Tales, c.
IN THE PRESS,
A Collection of Cin.icn Mulic and A-ithcrni •
tc contain 290 Qcraw P-ges.[Inserted ly defirc.~\
CIRCULAR LETTER of the Hifto-
Tic.! Society, in IvJ .flichufetts
Rc/prlfu/'y addrejjed to every Gentleman oj
, Same: in the Continent and IJlands oj
winter ica.
SIR,
\ SOCIETY has lately been inftitu
ted in tills slate, called the Hillori
cal Society ; the profeffed design of which
if, to collect, prcferve and communicate,
materials for a complete hillory of this
country, and accounts of all valuable es
s rts of human ingenuity and indullry,
from the be<jinnin<r of its fettlemenr. In
pursuance of this plan, they have already
amassed a large quantity of books, pamph
lets and manuscripts ; and are Hill in
search of more : A catalogue of which
will be printed for the information of the
public.
They have a!fo encouraged the publi
cation of a monthly pamphlet in which is
given the refidt of their inquiries, into
the natural, political and ecckfialtical hi
story of this country. It is requeued
that you would contribute to its value and
importance, by attention to the articles
annexed. The Society beg leave to de
pend on your obliging answer to thtfe
heads of inquiry, when leisure and oppor
tunity will p.rmit.
Your letters addressed, free of expense,
to the fubferiber, will be gratefully receiv
ed, and duly noticed in the Society's pub
lications; and you will have the fat isfacti
on of contributing to the general (lock of
knowledge, with which they hope to en
tertain the public.
In the name, and by order of the Society,
JEREMY BELKNAP,
Corresponding Seeretary.
Botlon in Massachusetts.
November I, I 791.
Articles on which the Society requejl infor
mation.
1. The time uhen yourtown or city
was incorporated : its Indian name j
when the fetrlement began ; whether it
was interrupted, and by what means ; tc
what colony or country it was firfl: anntx
eJ ; and if there have been any alterations)
what they are, and when made. .
2. The exploits, labours and fuffering!
of the inhabitants in war ; particular ac
counts r f devaltations, deaths, captirit es
and redemptions.
3. Divifrins of your town or city in
parifhts and precindis, or the erection ol
new towns within the former limits.
4. Time of gathering churches of every
denomination ; names of the several
minders ; tie times of their fettle
ment, removal and death; and their age
at the time of their death.
5. Biographical anecdotes of persons
in your town, or within your knowledge,
who have been remarkable for ingenuity,
enterprise, literature, or any other valua
ble acomplilhment ; an account of their
literary productions, and if poflible, copies
of them.
6. Topographical description of your
town or coun:v, and its vicinity; moun
tains, rivers, ponds, animals, vegetable
produ&ions ; remarkable falls, caverns,
minerals, stones, foffils, pigments, medici
nal and poisonous fubltances, their uses
and antidotes.
•7. The former and profent slate of cul
tivation, and your thoughts on farther
improvements, either in refpedt to agri
culture, roads or canals.
o. Monuments and relieks of the anci
ent Indians ; number and present Hate of
anv remaining Indian's among you.
9, Singular inllances of longevity and
fecundity from the full fettlenitnt, to
the present time.
10. Obf.rvations on the weather, diseases,
and the influence of the climate, or of par
ticular Camions, employments and ali
jncnts, especially the effedt of spirituous
liquors on the human constitution.
11. Accurate bills of mortality, fpeci
fying ages and cafualtits, the proportion
of births and deaths ; and the incrsafe or
dccreafe of population.
12. Accounts of manufaflures and
fifheries, and thoughts 011 the farther im
provement of them.
13. Modes of education, private or pub
lic ; what encouragement is given to
schools and colleges, and what is done to
advance literature ; whether you have a
facial library,what u the numbercf books,
and of what value.
74- What remarkable events have be
fallen your slate, count)-, town, or parti
cular families or persons at any time.
P.S The corresponding members of
this society are requeiled to transmit to
the Corresponding Secretary, any hii" ori
cal information of which tJv.v may be
pjfiefied, refpe&ing- any p-.irt cf the A
merican continent and islands, together
• - . .
with prmted adls and jcur.sals of aiTem
blies a n'l conventions whether civil or ec
clesiastical. Ar.d the society will grate
fully receive from them and from all o
ther persons whatever, any books, pam
phlets, manuscripts, maps or plans which
may be uleful in forming an hiltorical
colledlion—and any natural or artificial
produ&ions which may enlarge the Mu
feum,
The Library and Mtifeum are depofi
ted in an apartment of Faneuil Hall.—
Any person desirous of making- a search
among the books or manuscripts, may
have access to them under such regulati
ons, as may be known by applying to any
one of the members.
Oil Giants—From a Correfpondcnt.
That a race, or nation of Giants have
formerly exilled on this earth, has been
generally allowed by all who have relied
upon the faith of ancient hillory. Their
univerLlchara&er was fierce, cruel, murde
rous, tyrannical, and poflefllng llrength
and power only to turn it tothevileft pur
poses. In corroboration of the exiflence
of this monstrous species of human be
ings, as aflerted in history, lkeletons are
said to have I een dug up in many coun
tries, particularly Sicily (:he ancient
refiderce of the Cyclops) at leafl four
or five yards in length. Notwithflanding
all this, however, I have conflantly enter
tained doubts of the reality of the former
exiflence of these beings, either as a dif
tindl race, or as inhabiting at some remote
age, any considerable portion of the ter
re/lrial fuperficies of this globe. Should
we suppose the latter to have been the
Cafe, and that Giants were the predecelfore
of the present race of mankind, we mull
behold in ourselves a degenerated species,
tho' in fame degree of an ameliorated and
improved nature.
Tho' it would be rash to fay that no
Giants have everexifted on this earth, yet
from a close and candid consideration of the
fubjedt, one would be inclined to think
their existence has been only in figure
and metaphor.
It is remarkable that the charaßeriJlic at
tributes of kings, despots, andg ants, are the
fame. There is therefore good reason to
conclude, that when ancient hiflory, or
poetry, entertains us with tales of giants,
or men 5 or 6 yards high, it means no
more than the despotic heads of nations,
who by means of their unlimited power,
and the bad use they commonly made of it,
were aptly enough styled giants, or great
men, who exijied by [pilling the blood of na
tions, and making the world a theatre of car
nage and desolation.
What considerably flrengthens this o
pinion is one or more passages in the He
brew Scriptures, where after mentioning
that giants had exilled in the earth, they
are called the sons or children of Anak.
From this Hebrew word, in all probabili
ty. was derived the Greek word Anax, in
English a king ; so that when the Hebrew
hi dorian talks of Anak, and the children o)
Anak, he can mean no other than certair
ancient kings and tyrants of Asia, a ract
of despots, whose crimes were at length
the cause of their deflru&ion, and out oi
which grew the Jewish and other theo
cracies, from an aversion in the people
(from what had pasTed) to be governed by
one of their own species, altho' this refor
mation was quickly the cause of nearly as
bad a tyranny in the persons of the priests,
who were a long time admitted as vice
gerents of the deity.
But after all that has been fa'd, if giants
have really lived in the world, there can be
no doubt but their numbers mull have
been comparatively few with the reft of
mankind. Their tyranny and oppressions
produced an opposition : and the inferior
ftatnre of men were compelled to unite in
their own defence ; they warred again!!
these monllers, and by degrees extirpated
them, male aad female, from this terres
trial globe.
The fame necefiity of union exifls in
this late age of the world to root out those
figurative giants, called hereditary kings
and emperors. Power was not made fcr
one man ; it can only, in the nature of
things, belong to colle&'ve bodies. Is it
not worse than madness then, to confer
unlimited authority upon any individual,
especially ;:s allhiflory has taught us, that,
with but very few exceptions, it never fails
to make even a virtuous mail a fiend of
darkneis, and an inveterate enemy to the
temporal happiness of his species.
From the NewTorl Magazine.
In the funimer of 1791, fcveral gentle
men (of diftin&ion) in the ltate of New.
York, made a tour through its wefteru ter
ritory. In their progress along tlie eall
bank of the Scneca river, fix miles foutf
of Grass and Salt lakes, and forty jnUc
south of the fore at Ofwego, they disco
vered a remnant of ancient Indian de
fence, unequalled perhaps even by the
celebrated vestiges at Muflcingum.
The principal fortification ij 220yardi
in length, and 55 in breadth. The ban!
and corresponding dilch are remarkably
entire, as are two apertures oppolite eac!
other in the mddle of the parallelogram,
one opening to the water, and the othei
facing the fore,ft.
About half a mile south of the grcatei
work, is a large half moon, fuppoled to bt
an out-work ; but attended with this fin
gularity, that the extremities of the ere
scent ai e from the larger fort. The bank
and ditch, both of this and the firft for
tress, are covered with trees which exhibi
extremity of age.
Over a fmali elevation in the great fori
the gentlemen observed a flat flone, fiv<
feet in length, and three and a half ir
breadth, and fix inches thick, which wai
evidently a sepulchral monument. Then
were a number of figures engraven upot
it, by being funk with a chifTel near hal
an inch lower than the general ftirface o
the (tone Upon removing the stone, om
of the gentlemen with his cane dug up'i
piece of an earthen veflel, which fiom th<
convexity cf the fragment he fuppofec
might contain twog.llons: it was verj
well burned—looked red, and had its up
per edge indented, as with the finger in it:
imprefiionable state.
It is remaikable, that in the enquiries
the travellers made concerning these fingu
lar conftrudtions, among the furroundinp
Onandagoes and other nations, they weri
so far from receiving any information tra
ditionary or otherwise, that the native!
themselves had never noticed it.
Perhaps the day is not far distant, wher
foitu American Gabii or Herculaneuir
cvill astonish the world with a western liif
tory, great, important, and interesting ai
the oriental,
Inventions and Improvements.
The science of Mechanics, is much in
debted to the ingenuity of Mr. Roltr,
Lejlie of the city of Philadelphia. Th:
following is handed to us as a lift of a
few of the inventions and improvements
not including those on time-pieces, &c.
which he has made during his residence
lere. Their merit will no doubt bring
:hem soon into general life.
A machine for threshing wheat, on a
lew plan.
A horizontal tide-mill, to work with
30th tides.
A boat to fail directly againll the wind,
)r in an) other dire&ion.
A horizontal wind-mill, so conftru&ed,
hat the wind adts on both fides of the
j'heel at the fame time.
An improvement on the common
Wheat-Fan, by which it is made to pro
luce more wind with less labour-
An apparatus for blowing the fire of
iny kind of furnace by a stream of water
without a bellows. The power of this
rontrivance may be increased to a greater
degree with a given quantity of water,
than the fame quantity could produce
if applied to giving motion to a common
bellows.
A machine for measuring a ship's way.
An improvement on carriage springs.
A flandard of invariable length, by
means of a cylindrical rod of iron of such
length as to perform its vibrations in one
fec»nd of mean time.
A method of continuing the impref
lions in dyes for coining and other pnr
pofes, uniformly the fame as long they
may be wanted.
Several ufeful discoveries in tfiills &e.
[Ft cm a. •ch paper.]
It mud appcai -i/hing 'to philofo
phcrs that, uader ll; French govern
ment, prejudice {hoi Viave impressed a
chara&cr of difjrace upon the profttTion
of a comedian, whilst it highly honoured
other occupations of a kindred nature, but
far beneath it in dignity, such as those of
preacher and orator. We will not so far
disgrace the charadifer of a good comedian
as to contrail it with that of an crator, in
point of requisites of genius, which would
be like c< roparing a fkilful physician to a
drug-pounding apothecary. Our new re
public cannot too 11 inch honour a profeffion
which, if we wou:d hasten a regeneration
morals, will conllitute an eflential part
of public inltru£uon.
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATION ).
March 1793.
D. llißar. \T\n. W; n i. 'Wcatlu,.
Tut/Jay, 10. 7 29. 85 53 W. 'Fair
2 ro- c to do. | do
'Yednejday, 20. 7 3c. 2 <s ■■. i\ L. TaiT. ,
I<>>. 16 61 S. S. E. do.
iburjday, at. 7 .9. S 41 i. t. 1 • ui)i.
I ■ 4■, ..N\v vdy.
Vnauy, 22. ; 30. c 3 .\l .\Fj.~r~
2 c .1 ' do.
Saturday, 23. 7 30. ci 3. N.
I 20 ' , 7 5 V,'. do.
Sunday, 24. 30. t ;7 ~ Fair.
: _VJ_ J- do.
Mvndtiy, *5. TI i -3-1 3 5 • • ■' -tr.
■I 1° 3S' 59 J
The Barracks in Perth Amboy,
Late the pvperty of Major Richard Lloyd,
Deceajcd,
'ry ILL he. xpofed to public sale on Monday
the firlt day of April next at the house of
John '1 h"mpfon in I'erch Amboy aforefairt .• fajj
barracks are an elegant large brick building,
:<>nraining about 30 rooms, ilie middle house of
kvhich ia three ftoriefc high—They are finely situ
ated commanding a beautiful profpedt of the
town and (urrounding waters—the lot on which
they stand, contains about one acre and an half in
ivhich are two wells of excellent water—At the
fame time and place wilt be fold a water lot
and dock lot King in Perth Amboy aforefaid
for all which good titles (by virtue of an order
jf the Orphan court of the county of Midclefcx)
will be given by
WILLIAM LLOYD.
NA I HANIEL KER.
Al minijirators.
Allentown, Monmouth county, Feu. 25, 1793.
4:. law.
FOR sale.
THE Subfcribcr wishes to fell the HOUSE
and LOT :n Princeton, now in the tenure
of William Worth , it is an eligible stand, either
for a private family or a trai*!cfroan, being situated
on the North liJc of the ftieec, near the centre of
the town, and a little tall of the market house—
rhe lot contains forty-two feet in front, and up
wards of two hundred feet in depth j on the prc
mifes is creeled, and in good tenantable «rder, a
two florv dwelling house, twenty feet front by 26
m depth j two rooms on the lower floor, whh an
entry fix feet wide j three rooms on the second
floor, and a room in (he garret, lathed and pjal
tered. In the irar of the houle, and adjoining
thereto, is a large kitchen, ano the cellar extends
under the wnole of the house. in rhe yard, there
is a well of excellent the yard and garden
are enclosed with a gooo pale fence. This »oufc
and lot iTvght be an objedi to fume gentleman *ho
might wish to educate his children either at the
College or rhe Latin or Englifn fc'.iools, which
are conduced upon an improved plan—The title
i* indifputabJe, and pofTelTion may be had the firft
of April. For terms apply to the fublcriber in
Princeton. JARED SEXTON.
PRINCETON, Feb. 28. 4W2av/
I Have claims to about two hundred and
fifty thousand acres of LAND in the state of
Kentuckey, in different parts of that country,
Tome of which 1 know to be equal to any ; all
which I am inclined to dilpofe of, either by
"ntire fair, or by admitting one, or two partners,
to whom the agency on the whole will be com
mitted.
One fourth of the contrafl will be required in
hand, either in ca/h, merchandise, or such aflets
as may be converted to a&ive use, the relidue
may be apportioned in convenient instalments.
The pure hafers to give security, on the land,
)r otherways,as suits them.
Knowing that there is a prejudice against the
titles of land in that (!ate, which is more general
than just, I am willing to stipulate in the con-
that a discount, or d-du&ion, shall be
madr, where any land may be loft, by reason of a
defective title.
Any person inclining so such a purchase, is re
quested to write to me by pert, in answer to
whom, more particular information will be given.
HENRY BANKS.
Richmond March 20, 1793. 2a w tf.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS and SWAINE,
AT THEIK OFFICE NO. 209, KICU-STK E S T",
N EAR F IFTH-STBFST,
P H_ U- A J) ! L P II I A.