Numb. 58 of Vol. ll.] SATURDAY, May.B, 1793.
For the National Gazette.
T F.T a man abuse a physician, fays the
humotous author of Tom Jones, he
makes another phylician his friend ; but if
tie attacks a prie.t or a hornet, both nelts
are Aire to be indantly upon him.
This obfervatioii no: o.ily applies to the
clergy, but to cvt-ry body of men, whole
intermit: it is to continue linked together,
and whose consequence would be hurt by
an attack upon abuses, which serve to fup
purt their dignity. However ths liberty
->f the press is indefinite; and as therein
no other channel thro' which the senti
ments of an individual may be conveyed to
the public, and abuses. however rank,
cannot be eradicated before they art-
EP.own, and the obje£t of the author is no
thing but abuses ; no person has a right to
■complain when tiuih Hows from the pen,
and personality is avoided.
Under these considerations, Mr. Editor,
I submit to your judgment the following
queries.
ift. Whether a degree in medicine,
like honour, lliould not be a thing not to
be bought or fold ; whether every person
ifioifelfing medical knowledge should not bo
entitled to a degree, upon paying a rea
sonable compensation for an examination ;
and i'lftead of bt ing a certificate, as it now
is, that the purch.ifer has attended the lec
tures o: all the profeffors, should it not ra
ther be the test of merit j and if know
ledge i • diseases is not as ufeful, whether
obtained from Culten's First Lines, which
may be purchased for seven dollars, and
read over and over again, as when obtain
ed by retail'from a course of manuscript
Je-tures, transfcribed from this author,
which colt sixteen dollars.
2. Is it not the real interest of the man
of genius to bring about such a reforma
tion, and fit was to take place, would it
Hot have a good effect in obliging the com
piler or the plagisrilt to resign, or lecture
ta empty benches.?
3. Does not the practice of compelling
tho'e who wilhtograduate, to attend ali
the lectures, make a profeflorfiiip a sine
cure, and are not all sinecures contrary to
the true spirit of republicanism ?
4. Will not the degree-lhops of the
present day, appear equally as absurd to
poiletity, as the (hops in the time of Hen
ry the eighth, for felling indulgences, to
free the foul from the pains of purgatory,
now appear to us ?
5. As the knowledge of two thirds of
ail who buy degrees, is an indigested farra
-50. might not (lie practice of publishing
diflertations, commonly called theses, be
a'jolifhed, for reasons evident to every
medical man. Would not every valuable
purpofc be anfwered,by submitting the dif
iertation to the profeffors in m mufcript.alid
then, if worthy of publication, let it come
forth -v'th th... approbation ? If this was
t i take place, the world would not be pef
; red with, nor the press be delivered of so
i.iaay foundlings.
6. Is not a degree a (trip of parchment,
eiititßng the purchaser to *• Immunia, ju
ra, honores et privilegia," when in fact,
there are neither honors, rights, or privi
leges belonging to a degiee?
MARTIN LUTHER.
May 15th, 1793.
From the New York Daily Advertijer, of
Monday lajl.
7"" OWN I have fujh an unbounded defe
rente for the uames which ulher to the
world the Proclamation* of the 22d of
April, that I have concluded what seem;
tn me a palpable omiffioii in it, is' rather
t e rel'ult of my own ignorance than any
iixftake of theirs.—l die more readily ad
i! it my own poilible misconception, when
J recollect the predilection which the Se
o etary of State is said to entertain for thm
country, whose principles (dear I hope to
ile hearts of every American) have pro
cured against it the fhameful combination
which our proclamation only, I hope, re
cords withouL applauding. If it be true
tlut a virtuous man Itruggling with mis
s i tune-, is a fight upon which the godr,
may look down with pleasure, I aik, what
ought to be our sensations on feeing that
nation, to which .ve are indebted for our
L berty and Independence, struggling to
piieferve its own exiltence. — I am no law
yer by profeflion, and therefore know not
Jiftw far those matters may be underrtood,
.about which not a fyliable is exprefied.
See National Gazette, No. 155, for
i'ic President's Ptoclarnation.
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhcd. Wednesdays and Saturdays at Three Dollars per annum.
If the proclamation meant to inforrrt us,
that it was our duty and interest to observe
towards the belligerent powers, all the im
partiality confident -with treaties* I fee in
it that watchful solicitude for our honor
and interest, which has ever diltingnilhed
that great charafler which illiies it. I hope
this reference to the treaties, can by some
legal intendment be under/food, in which
cafe, (tho' the omilioii is somewhat sur
prizing) one is confined so tine bare fault in
the compolition—b'.rf if the doctrine which
I daily hear ot this neutrality, and which 1
fee has now in this llate, unproved itfelf
into the " itricteft impartiality," be in
tended for practice, I own, for one, that
is I cannot understand, I should be deft
rous utterly to disregard it. I hope I am
mistaken when I fee a d reft repugnance
between the subsisting treaties with France,
and the ftri&elt impartiality to the powers
which are at war with iier. These dilem
mas will soon present themselves, and it is
needless to add, there are enough upon the
watch to avail themselves of them. I con
fefs I have 110 delire to fee a Britifb fub
jefl producing our proclamation, while a
Frenchman refers us to the treaty. I
know the numbers to whom even a deci
ded coiiduft against France would be an
unspeakable gratification ; but I trust this
country is notgoinj; to mark its outset by
a dereliction which would leave even pu
nic faith so far behind it. These observa
tions may at lead call the attention of thole
to the fnbjeft, who know the reference 1
lament the want of, to be either useless or
eflential—in either cafe, I have done my
duty. He is not a good citizen, who, with
refpeot to the concerns of his country,-is
not able to fay, " liberavi animam mcafri"
however unimportant his
prove eventually.
Ext rath from French Papers printed at
Paris, from-March i—to Marsh 25th.
1. Zadkin Hovi itz, a Jew of Poland, to
his catholic fellow-citizen and friend A. J.
Gorfas, on matters relative l to Louis the
16th. 1
'• I cannot conje&ure. my dear catho
lic and apoitolic fellow-citizen, why so
much need be said about the sentence pro
nounced on Louis the 16th. His pretend
ed good qualities, his evil education, his
habit of intoxication, in short, every ex
cuse for him of this kind is absurd—as they
were equally applicable to Cartouche,
Maidrin, and many other criminals. As
to the plea of his inviolability, that invio
lability ceased the moment the king abdi
cated the crown, that is to fay, on the ve
ry day he accepted t'he constitution, and
I'wore to maintain it; since it was fu ,y
proved, that both prior to, and subsequent
to that day, he kept his guards conitantly
in pay, as well as the emigrants at Cob
lentz, in arms against their country —not
to mention a number ot other treasons by
him personally committed, and for which
his then miniller< could,not be held refpon
llble. Having abdicated the throne then,
and confequcntly ceased to be inviolable
for more than a year before his impeach
ment, it is cle;:r he was punishable for all
crimes committed after the period of ab
dication. It is absurd to fay, he did not
folenmly publish his abdication ; the con
stitution required no such formality ; it
does not fay that a traitor-king (hall bn
judged and condemned to lose his crown,
but that in the treason itfelf, he is to be
considered is having in fact abdicated it.
It is hefides, absurd to fay, that Louis the
16th ought not to be puniflied for his
crimes, bocanfe the constitution is not fuf
ficiently clear ill this respect; as well might
it l e argued, that the Athenians never pu
nillied parricide (or treason against coun
try,) because Solon had the prudence not
to mention it in his code of penal laws.—
Had the constitution even given to Louis
the right of murdering men, still he would
have been punishable by virtue of the law
natural, which is the firft, and more sa
cred than all human constitutions whatever.
Finally, the question not only concerns the
deaths of the patriots, but alio thole of the
emigrants, theSwifs guards, the Pruflians
and Auftrians, who have perished in awai
of Louis the t6th's contriving, for these are
also men, tho' men milled. Now, the e
migrants, the Swiss, the Pruflians, and the
Aultrians neveraccepted our constitution,
and their blood cries to heaven against the
emigrant French, William the ftadtholder,
and against Louis the i6th, their accom
plice. I fli ii only add a single reflexion :
If Louis had been acquitted, the nation
muf! have tacitly acknowledged itfelf guil
ty of the death of .lis agent*, Bachman pud
La Porte, who haung not been his mini
sters, v ere not r«ri lonfible for the crimes
that were commit ed by his order.
2. Wit'i the < cline of tyranny, the
gods of the earth ;:e also coming to their
end; those fconrr,; r nf mankind, to whom
the idolatrous fpir tof the world has too
lung offered ( * s of servility ! For
fourteen centurir,'. have we been tiarraf
fed by this unnatnrai order of beings ; in
ri.eir day of pride, they styled themselves
ourjnafters—and we basely submitted to
be called their fubjcfts, their slaves, and
in effect, their cattle. Vanity or caprice,
led them 10 undertake a thousand wars,
that have converted the best peopled coun
tries into inhospitable defarts :—ln de
bauchery and unbounded licentiousness
they have t > 'ed tiiofe immense contribu
tions, which they extoi ted from their
wretched worfhippi rs, reduced thereby to
iiveon hard and black bread, in order to
cover the tables of these monarchs with
fuinptuoßS delicacies, and to fill their pa
laces with your Lais'sand Meffalina's.
3. Itfeems fomeuhat strange that the
foil of Tufcany, amidlt the corrupted and
tyrannical governments that surround it,
:houM be so productive of virtue, as to
force the prince that govern it to follow
wife counsels, and measures of jnfticeand
prudence. Leopold, once Grand Dtike of
flffcany. while in • that station, merited
ihe general eftcem of Europe, which he
lolt upon succeeding to the throne of Vi
enna ; and probably had he only remained
Ouke of Tufcany, and been left <to hitn
felf, he would have acted with as much e
quity towards the French Nation, as the
present Duke . Ferokiand the 3d, who no
bly acknwledgcd cid- Republic-, when all
the tyrants of Europe were arming again!!
11s. From the very different condi.:£t of
monarchs and limited governors, on iimi-
I ir occasions, ay important truth maybe
deduced, thaf kinds' alwaj s czjlfait iheir
individual interelb, whiuh may be conli
dered as the spring of all their aitions.
4. The man mull almoll hate human
nature, that read*, thercp'>r: made to the
National Convention by the committee ol
a 4, that were appointed to collect and re
port the criminal causes of accusation a
gainfl the late king. Additional proofs are
every day riling up againlt him, tho' now
dead. Let us hazard thereon a few re
flections, The ccHiftitution of this, then
monarchy, had declared the perlon of the
king inviolable ; and supposed the refponli
bility of the king's minitlers fufljeient to
secure the due execution of the laws. Be
) ond all doubt, the inviolabil.ty of the mo
narch was a r.eitijary principle in a mo
il archical form of government; and is a
glaring proof of the imperfection insepara
ble from monarchy, becanfe in the vefv
firft article, a man inuft be acknowledges
independent of, and above the laws—o
man, againlt whom nothing coercive can
in any circumstance be employed. But,
after all, what is this mighty word, Invio
lability ?—The c,ue(tion is so natural, one
would think, that there could be no ex
cuse for not answering it—and yet it ha;
not been done, \\ hether thro' treachery or
negligence I will not fay.-The real im
port of the wprd seems to be, that any na
tion that allows the inviolability of itschicl
or any other u>.igiftrate, fells to that king,
or magistrate, the infallible right of op
prefling or convuHing the nation whenever
hepleales. The rejponfiiility of ministers is a
mere farce,and it is attonifhiiig it coulfrl have
been admitted into the former constitution
by those men of superior abilities and dis
cernment who were entrusted with the
framing of it. The responsibility of mini
tiers will evermore be a weak defence a
gainst the machinations of a b3d ki n g. Let
us suppose the king, in cafe ol'crimination,
to be left untouched, andth;:t therejpon
fible minister is seized 011. He h«s to an
•wer for his name appearing to orders, con
trary to law, which throw a damp upon the
exertions of national Jive),gth, or deliver up
France to her enemies.—Let us suppose
rhe trial begun. It is focn discovered that
it is of lehgtby process, witneiies are 10 be
collected from, all parts of the realm—eve
ry thing is embarrafied—the "chief magis
trate remaining in office in the mid ft of his
splendor, his courtiers, and his sycophants,
throws a weight into the scale that crulhes
all enquiry. But let ns suppose that one
or more refponsiUe miniitei s are at length
denounced traitors —let us even suppose
that the term ot their appointment is to be
closed in a few days ; (till, upon a ludden
emergency, fudi a? the enemy advancing
[Total No. 162.]
hafHly towards us, being at our gates, or
the like, of necessity the king, in ailing
the part of a fuvereign, would at that very
moment re-eftabliih his authority, would
cut oil the heads of his opponents, and re
ward those who had* favoured his de%; s !
—Such was the cafe on the iothof August
i 79 2 - A decisive execution upon the people
was to have followed the mandate cf the
king responsibility was a dream—and
there were tlioufands who looked upon
the cause of the king as the caije »j virtue
'tfelf The law of inviolability is there
tore merely nugatory, and a flat contra
diction to the universal reason and comir.oo
Tenfc of mankind.
Extract of a letter from the Members of
the Society of Friends to Liberty and
Equality at Nice, in Savoy, (dated Feb.
1 793*) to the National Convention,
ot France.
The citizens of Nice, the defcend
ints ot the ancient Phocians, are still wor
thy of their illustrious anceilors, by the*
irm resolution they have taken to renounce
ife, rather than that sacred liberty you
lave conferred upon them. This city and
:ountry has experienced many revoluti
ons, and the wounds received in different
iges, will yet bleed for a length of time-
In the year 551, ofthe Chriflian sera, we
rose upon the ruins of tlie ancient city of
■umea. Long before that Cpf r had re-i r
utedus to Narboreiifian Caul. 111 138?, we
ell a prey to Amadeus, seventh count of
Savoy. In 1543, our city was taken and
nined by the pirate B?rbarofiTa ; it after
wards recovered by flow degrees, but lofk
uuch of itsancient splendour. In 1691, it
iv«s taken by Marechal Catinat, and in
was given up to the Duke ofSavqv.
ft was taken by the Duke of Berwick in
1706, and was reflored to Savov at the
-reaty of Utrecht—ln 1744, the'S. an arc!s
md trench took pofTeflioji of it, oniy to
*ive it up again to its old tyrant. Fir I'y,
jii the 29th of September, 1792, a if. y to
56 ever memorable in the annal? or our
history, the Republican French came to re
[tore uc to those rights which tyrants had
111 urped from the sovereignty of the people.
We have now all taken a moll foleum
> ith, to live free or die. We are defceiid
lnts of those heroes ofPhocis, who, when
quitting theland of tyranny, threw a wedge
nto the sea, fweanr.g they would neVer
return till it should rife to the furface : Lre
jiflators of France, during seven centuries
vye were under the dominion of your na
ion; we were Frenchmen, and are dill
oby the vigour of our character. For
1 jco years we groaned under the hnJefijj
weight of despotism ; under the reign of
many hateful dynasties our ancestors, like
fours, dragged out a wretched existence ;
ant we are at length avenged. Now, freed
?ternally from the yoke of royalty, we
[hall no'longer be a prey to the defpet of
1 urin, who, in the sacred name of God,
thought himfelf authorized to tread man
kind under his seer. We have now ,wrru
:o be buried in the ashes of this city, ra
:her than become (laves to tyrants, to
whom we bear an immortal hatred."
! Official Paper, publijhed by order cf the
National Convention. J ■
The Republic of France contains at the
oweft computation, one hundred and
wenty millions of acres of land, improved
ind capable of improvement. This, 'at pre-'
ent, deducing paftnre-lands, forell:, ;,1-
ow-grounds, &c. produces yearly, fr.cty
niliionsoffetieri, [afetieristvvelve Englilii
>ufliels and two gallons. ] Such a coun
ry, inhabited by at lea.si twenty-fix mil
ions of ppiiple, if not thirty, may indeed
ometimesbe exposed to famine, but this'
rannot often happen.
It is now our business to open a more li
beral plan of commerce, than has ever yet
:aken place. This, with a prevention of
he infamous praflice of forell ailing, will
ecu re to the Republic an unfailing abund
ance. Let us protect commerce, .ndpi o ■
cure an accel'sto our veflels into ail coun
tries, and we (hall soon have an iinmenfe
importation of provifionsYrotn all qnaittrs
.il the globe. National famine, a;;d fear
city will then be mere names, that may
jnft recall the idea of our old tyrannical'
government, ami put us in mind that kins*
have exifled, Aich as Louis the last, who
by engrolfing the article of grain, »,ppref
fed and ftar»ed millions of his fiibj<tts.
England has had the address to engross
all t; v vrain -nd llour trade with the Vei
led btatTs of Amei.ca. She had too nt ch
railed the fweots of tliat trade before the
Americ an Revolution, easily to give it up.
J769, and 17:0, England drewirom America 1500,000 quintals of wheat,
of which 32,000 were confiunefi among
themft Ives and the residue (hipped to Spain,
Portugal, and the Mediterranean. This
quantity (hipped to England iias heen con
flantly inci eaiing ever lince by the yearly
addition of new cultivated lands in Ame
rica. It must now be the policy of France
to endeavour todraw this profitable branch
of commerce to herfelf, or at lead to have
her snare. I"he molt effe&ual means tc
accompli(hthis purpose, will be, to eftablift
certain free ports and erect (tore houses,
&c. fuflicient to receive and contain th-.
American shipments of grain. By thi
means the grain will always be in readinef;
to be (hipped wherever there (liall be a de
m ind. Tliefc fame free porfs ought alfc
to be a depot fur all commercial article
in demand in the United States, Y.&lis ver\
evident that a grain and flour trade with
America would be reciprocally advanta
geoustoboth nations; advantageous to A
merica, because the certainty of a place o:
depot, where a generous price would al
ways be given, and the duties very low.
would always command a speedy exporta
tion of their crops : It would be advanta
geous to France, because the people having
a constant and plentiful resource in their
power, they would be effectually secured
from all internal monopoly. Such place:
of depot would also support abrifk coaitino
trade from the north of France to the fur
theft ports 011 the Mediterranean. But
Poland offers 11s resources still more abun
dant than North America. Three of its
mod southern provinces, Podolia, V'ollii
nia,'and Ukraine, produce such immense
quantities of grain, as would supply all
Kurope for three months in the year. Bui
the Black Sea being the only natural open
ing for the exports of Poland, and the navi
gation thereof being only permitted to the
Turks, the Ruffians, and the Auftrians.
there is confcquently little grain exported
from Poland, and the people are under a
necefiity of convertingitinto brandy. Were
the Black Sea once open to our vessels, we
should receive constant supplies from the
provinces on the Dnieper and Niefter ri
vers ; and by means of the Danube we
should import from Hungary and Molda
via, all fertile countries and abounding in
wheat. Neither is such a trade unprece
dented. We attempted it in 1779, under
the Ragufan flag, which is freely admitted
into the Black Sea, while that of France is
prohibited. This trade was greatly in
creafcd in 1786, under the Ruffian flag ; bul
the last War with the Turks, and thepolic)
of the court of Peterfburgh, have now de
ftroyed it. It is now time, however, tc
give new encouragement to this brand
of indullry; and the dignity of our re
public, and g-sod understanding with the
Turks, demands, that the navigation of
the Black Sea should be opened- "
A pamphlet has lately appeared, giving <1
horrid lift of M. de la Fayette's crimes and
treasons against the nation, amounting to
no less than one hundred and twenty-five
capital actuations. The pamphlet is sign
ed by several refpe£table patriotic charac
ters. As our limits will not allow us to
detail the whole, we extratt a very few
of the accusations, without choice or dis
crimination.—He is in the firlt place ac
culed of "refilling to accept the com
mand of the Paris militia, unlefs-with con
sent of the king, (which militia meant to
take up arms agaiuft the king)—but this
was perfe£tly in character'; he being a
Marquis, and his family receiving 1800,000
livres, yearly pension from the court, it
was but natural that he should endeavour
to bring down the spirit of the people to
his own b ife level ; a people who had de
termined to assert their own dignity in o
vertnrning a tyrannical throne. 2. He
granted an armed escort to that old trea
sury traitor, Necker, as far as the frontiers,
laden as he was with the spoils of France.
3. He arrogantly demanded ot the Nati
onal Affrmbly, that four millions of specie,
gold and silver, the pretended property
of Necker, seized 011 the frontiers ol
France, should bereftored to him. 4. The
monarchical club at Paris was at all times
under his protection. 5. He intereffed
himfelf in procuring the departure of the
king's aunts from Paris, granting them a
guard, as far as the south-eastern fron
tiers, of several of his aids-de-camp. 6.
He brought 12 pieces of cannon and 800 c
men,"with fixed bayonets, into the Thuil
leries, in order torepulfe the unarmed ci
tizens. women and children, who begged
of the king to recall his aunts; those wick
ed women having carried .off with them
an immense ftim of the national treasures
to Rome. 7. He required of the nation
al guards a molt unconstitutional oath ;
that they should fwe.ir to him fidelity, sub
mission, and th» mod blind and implicit o
bedience. 8. He-persecuted, tormented,
and arrested the hawkers of patriotic
prints, a long time before the decree,
which at length, thro' his influence was ob
tained againlt them. 9. On the 18th of
April, 1-91, he engaged the king to make
a journey to St. Cloud, byway of feint,
knowing that his baggage snd other nccef
faries were then ready for bis flight. 10.
He was an accomplice and witness of the
king's escape, in the qight of the 20th of
June, having previously made himfelfre
i'poiMbie for the king's remaining in Paris,
jr. He employed one of his aids-de-camp
to go a little in adv'Shcc of the king, whild
on nis journey ; prderlng him, if his rha
jelty fliouid happen to be flopped, to do all
in his power that he fnould be carried pri
soner to t]ie fortrefs of Verdun, rather than
brought back to Paris. 12. He demanded
and obtained of the National AH'embly 2
decree, permitting any individual to leave
the kingdom with hi* arms and effects,
without a paflport; which gave an oppor
tunity to all traitors and confpiratots to
go out and come in at' plealiire. 13. Ke
brought into ilie Champ de Mars an arm
ed troop, with the red flag flying, and ar
tillery in the centre of each detachment,
who made three fucceliive discharges on
the people. He alio neglected or defpifec'
all those humane formahtts, defigncd by
good men. to mitigate the bloffriy feveritj
ot mditary la\v, which was only meant foi
robbers a d ruffians, but in this in,lance,
had its full effeil upon patriots and inno
cent persons. Three discharges of artil
lery were made before the red flag appear
ed. he then g :ve orders for the ranks tc
Scatter and n. ;11 acre \\ ith their sWords, sa
bres, and bayonets, those miserable men,
women, and children, that had by thi:
time turned their backs and fled—it is toe
ti ue, tne number'of these victims t»
tiie inhuman -vengeance of royalty coulc
never yet be afcert'ained ! 14. Alter thi;
horrid carriage, he c::ufed Ills troops tc
wafll the faces ol the dead, to discover i:
anyof the proscribed was among the num
ber ; the next flep was to (trip and throw
them iuto the river, leaving only clever
on the field of death ! ij. He has alway:
obuinatety retained the badge of Cincin-
NAT us ; nolwithjianding a decree, ivhizl
expre/sly ordains, that no Frenchman, ot
French Citizen, who wears a foreign badgt
of nobility, can, in France, hold a plact
of public employ. 16. He transmitted tc
Bruirels, to the holtile commanders, oui
leveral plans of attack, the fthemes of out
operations and the slate of our armies,
and otlier matters, as well civil as military
17. He gave up his own army to the
will and direction of the enemy, to con
rlutt them to Paris, to cut the throats ol
the National Aflembly and thf patriots ;
and afterwards to give lip one army to be
(laughtered by the other !
Such was the conduct of the perfidious
La Fayette! It was high time then, w her
he fled, that the jultice'of the laws flioulr
b.ive taken place, and the recall of our mi
lifters ; without whom we were upon tht
i erge of deitruaion ; 3nd the iincll coun
try in Europe, on the point <?f
irey to twenty tyrants, who would have
omented eternal wars in disputing about ;
partition; and the people, more entlavec
•han ever, would have become the fooc
ind nouriiliment of these infernal monller;,.
March. 2j 1793. Letter from Cen.
Duniourier, commander of the
army of the North, to the National Con
vention, dated Louvain, March 12.
Citizen Prejident,
The fafety of the people is the supreme
aw; and to that fafety, I have facrificed
in almost certain conquest in quitting that
/icloriuus part of the army who were up
)n the point of penetrating into the heart
>f Holland, in order to come to another
>art which has experienced a reverse ol
ortune, owing to certain physical and mo
•al causes, which I shall explain to you
■vith that open freedom of opinion which
s now more necefTary than ever; unci
•vhich would always have had a salutary
•ffefr for the republic, if all he N r public fer
/ants had been less parsimonious in the
jfeof it in their official communications,
ind if. whsn communicated, they hat!
:>een : ttended to with more complacency
:han the idle strains of flattery.'
You cannot be ignorant, Citizen Repre
sentatives, into w hat a wretched slate ol
Jiforganilation our armies in Belgium hac
learly fallen by means of a minister and
pfikers who conducted France to the brink
if ruin. That minister and his officers
lave been changed, but so far have they
:>een from receiving ptmi'fhment, that both
?ache and HaCenfratz were appointed
to the mayoralty of Paris, and from thence
"orward the capital has beheld fcencs ol
:arnage and slaughter in the ltrcpt of the
Lombards, &c.
In the month of December last, I laid
nefore you four menior.als, Hating the abu
"es that were to be redrefTe«; I pointed out
to you, the only means which could put
an end to these evils, reltore to our mi
mics their wonted vigour, and to the cause
as the nation that justice which ought to
ae her charafteriftic. These memorials
■emain neglefled,flighted and unexamined;
.nit if you will give them a fair review,
you will find therein predicted all that has
lince happened ; you wil! alio find a reme
dy propoied for the various dangers which
threaten our rifuig republic. Our Belgic
armies, in the neighbourhood of Liege and
Aix la Chapelle, have flifiered every spe
cies of want and misery without a mur
mur ; but by reason of continual lose-,
owing to ficknefi and fl'.irmilhes with the
enemy, the desertion of a number cf ""offi
cers and soldiers, they were reduced to
less than half of their former frrengtii.
It was not till Geaerr.l Benrnonville
C3ineto the miniftrv, that the army began
to be furuifhed with recruits and supplies.
But he was in Co foort a time, tii.it w . fl.it'
experienced ail the misfortunes to which
our disorganized expnfed u :- c i
was the adjial iitiwttimi hi :: on
the jft ofj ebriWy y-Mi;tlijT:;-,?fr
tor tUfr ■honor of the nation To <hv larr <*•*
againd England and Holland. From that
instant I l'acrificed all my chagrin, and
thought no more of tne difmiflion I had Col
licited in my memorials. The great dan
gers and the salvation of my country were
my only solicitude. 1 endeavoured to get
the ft art ot the enemy, and for the lake ot
attacking Holland, mv fuffe-ring army for
got all its miseries, Whilst with the frelh
recruits from France I took Breda, Kllii
dert.and Gertruydetiberg, Lhe Belgic army,
animated alike with cvturag&aii.l patriot
ism undertook the iiege and bombardment
of Maeftricht.—All proper preparations for
filch an expedition were wanting. The
authority of the new administration was
not yet eltabli filed ; that of l"he old was
both facily and criminal ; the nation a
bounded with money, but the new Forma
lities threw so many impediments in the
way of the.treasury, that ny part of the
army received pay. —It is out of my Slow
er to detail the causes of the check these
armies have received, iince I am but jnll
come among them : they have not onlv
given up,ail hopes of taking MaeftricM
but have retieatedin disorder and witli
loss. The magazines of every kind which
were begun to be collc&ed.at Liege, are
taken by the enemy as .well as pari of the
field, and battalion artillery. '1 his rtrtreai
adds also to the number of out enemies,
and on this head I mean to be particiilai
on the causes of out misfortunes.
I n the events of human affairs, there al
ways exists a reward for virtu? and punilh
ment for vice. Individuals may indent
escape the eye of that providence (or call ii
what you will) becaiife they are merel)
imperceptible-points in the great order of
things—But take a view of hillory, ane
yon will find that-nations never escape.—
As long as our cause was just, we conquer
ed the enemy; but when our began
to be directed by avarice and injuliice, we
were madi the inflruments oi our own
deftruttion, and our «?neniiesjiave profited
by i-t.
You have been flattered—you have beer
leceived—but I vvVJJ tear the veil from
before your eyes- The Belgi ins have thro'
the means ot our armies inhered evecj
pedes of vexation, and in rtfpeft to them
the sacred rights of liberty itfelfliave beer
violated; their religious opinions ha\ t
been .iifulted ; their very -church furni
ture has been, profaned by pitiful mean
pillage ; yon have been mifmr'onned a:
o their character and intentions ; the re
union of Hainault was effected by dint o!
mufquets, sabres, antl bayonets ; that oj
Briifiels was brought about by a band ol
men, who could notexift tinlefs in feene.
of tumult and trouble, with the additior
of some ruffians, \\ ho were collecleel foi
the- purpose ot intimidating the citizens.
Examine the history of the low country -
and you will find that the Belgic nation is
good, liberal, brave, and impatient of fia
very. That most cruel of ail ti.e monster
in the service of Philip the id. the duke <.:
Alva, put to death no less than 18,000 oi
them by the hands of the executioner.
The Belgians took ample revenge by keep
ing the country in a state of civil war lor
30 years, and their attachment to the re li
gion of their fathers, and that alone, v. :
the cause of their returning under the Spa
nilh yoke.
"Y our'finances were exhausted when we
filtered the Belgic provinces; and your
ready money had disappeared. Canibon.
who may indeed be a well-meaning citizen,
but is certainly unworthy all financeeriiuj
confidence, saw no other remedy than li
the poflelKon of these rich and fertile pro
vinces. He proposed to you the fatal de
cree of the 15th of December. You ac
-eptcd it unaninu ufly, and yet every indi
rioual member that i spoke with elifappro
vedit, and allowed the decree was unjuti.
One of my .four memorials particularly op
posed this decree; it was not read to the
assembly. This very Camboil d'.d his ut
mofl t.» make my remonlhances apppa r i.
in odious and criminal point of vie w; "bv
iflerting that I was opposing the decree o;
the sfiembly. You confirmed that deti.ee
by another of the 30th of December ; at)<!
charged your commitlioners pereinptoril 1 ,
to put it into execution. Accord,ng ti
your orders, the executive powerdifpatch
rd at lealt 3o commffiioners. The choice
as them was bad, and except a few, they
were generally men void of all.rtfteSiim
and prudence; and uhem a violent z. .l
hurried to a degree of action and in
tance beyond their powers.
"i 011 may rely upon it as a truth of the
S.rft magnitude, that the age!:'! <f drjpoti..
tyranny, were spread imwenfiiy u.Kk.
throughout Belgium. "J lie military com
manders, in obcdicnce to the decree, -i ere
obligee) to employ the forces enti tided t<>
them according to orders. These extor
tioners completed the enmity of the Bel
gians. Thenceforward terror, and per
haps hatred, took place of that fraternal
!pir;t, which marked our mere early pi o
grefb into the Belgic. piovin'ce.-: and, i.;n
iortunately, it was at the very hour of 01 r
reve. Eof fortune, thartht above mertio: id
mercenary agents oftyra'nny ext. V. d ihem-
■"elv s in the catife of viok ncr nnd »ljufliee.
i'on have b ;en d:v/:v\ wuiir. ,ard to
the re-union of France with (V. i parts
Iff Belgium. You. luppofed it a v u.itary
nei, because you were deceived ! y sals-
Anddx. Honce'you luppofed yo:: v tre at
liberty to take the fuperfiuous jji.Hefrom
the churches, to help oay the ex;;-.- ifes of
the war. Youthen ioniidefedthe Belgians
as Frenchmen—Suppoling them so, a vo
*i;:tary surrender of this plate, ought to
have taken place, without wliicii it was
in their eyes fuoilege. Ti is is wh t has
actually happened. Theprieib and monks
have taken advantage o: fuel) impii dence,
and conlidered us as plunderers; and the
village communities have we'ry where
armed again'.t us. This is nor. a war of
aristocracy ; far our revolution is favour
able to the peafuntry, who nevei ilielefs
arm against us aud found the alarm in all
quarters. With them it is art war,
and on our part a criminal war. We arc
at this moment fucrounded with enemies :
you will fee it by the accounts I tranfmir
10 the minilter of war; you will at the
fame time fee the firft me sure's wh'ch ne
ccliity forced me to take to five the Fremh
am y, the honour of the nation, and the
republic itfelf.
Representatives of the nation, J call both
upon your juilice and your important cb'i •
guions; I call upon the sacred principles
delivered in the declaration of the rights
<>t man; and with in patience I wait your
d'ecifion. At this moment the fate of-the
empire i? in your hands, and I am persuad
ed that y»ur decdions will be marked with
truth and virtue, that you will not fuffer
■ our armies to be fbiined with crimes, and
then become the viiiims.
(Signed) The Commander in Ch ; ef,
Dumoumer.
[ The above letter appears in the Mo
ii:.'.ur UMivcrJetle of the 25th of March,
which mentions in a note, " That the
letter had not been read before the Na
tional Convention, but printed ar.d publilh
cd in the Belgic provinces."—At that time
it was not, probably, thought prudent to
it in the Convention. It was refer
red to the committee of defence, and Du
mor.rier requelted the Convention to come
to no decision on it till he had again con
ferred with the Belgic commiffior.t n>.]
For the. Nationat. Gazette.
Fellow-Citizen Printer,
EVER did the baneful eft'efh of an in
-1 tj-iguiiig funding system in the United
States appear more eonfpicnoiafjy than az
present. The nation of France engage 4
in a general war for the rights of the peo
ple against the ctefpotifm oi tyrants, is con
demned, cveu by iome Americans : Leu us
ncjuij c ho they are ? The answer is ob
vious ; men diverted of ev#py ft-nfe of gra
titude, vile (peculators who are intereKed
in the public funds, and of coisrfe In(up
port of every liieafureof government whe
ther right or wrong; harpies who are
grown fat on the former hard earned duefc
or the war-worn pa riot soldier, w relied
from liim in a Hate of hard neceiiity; and
even the present earnings of him, as well
<; s other good citizens who are obliged to
pay indirect taxesior the inter eft of twenty
iiiilli>gs principal, which was i . fely ob
ta ned at two fhiliings in the pound. As
tor tiie old bitter tones, ait-Jicugh U me of
them are (to our frame be it spoken,) upon
Chatham principles, put into public c£ices
of ti lilt and proiit; new comtrs of preju
diced ignorant Europeans ; and reiigtoiis
fanatics.of every deft ription; they are still
the avowed enemies of France and Ame
rica ; lor it is impofllbie in the nature of,
things, that any man c:m be urcaTlV.end to
the republican government of the United
states, who is an enemy to the French.re
solution.
Ungrateful Americans 1 "Had France in x
Lhe important hour of your for li
peuty, proclaimed it her " duty and inte
eft to be impartial toward you," what
v. ouldhave Ijpcn theproJbableconfeqveUce?
:!iat you would at this moment, in a state
r poverty, be vijely groaning miller the
yoke of "Britila" (lavery.—
vriftocrats, courts, and crow ned heads are
oathed in mourning i'-.-r the death of
Louis XVl—Tender hearted creatures !
10 so much lament tb£ loss of one man,
when they are the cause of hundreds, per
'i;;ps thousands, -toeing butcliercd <iai ;• ; let
; iiem luourn aiid treiUoJe ! not for the love
hey bore to the late perjured and traito-.
ous Jcing of the Frencai, but for fear of
their own appr. aching fate, vhe a 1 rr.nce
in spite of them, (hall eXtabiiHr her republi
can independence.
II I am rightly informed, even' feme of
the clerr.y in this city have prtf im d to in
sult the patriot feeling's of their h. . r.:rs in
lately applying the downfall of An: h: ift to
the downfall of the Roman C holic
religion in Ftj ce ; and in av ry recent
nftance public pra.vers wetc devo;.;iy of-
Kred up .to the throne of grace, "< r the
fafe arrival of a certain ecclriiafiic (not,v in
this city) of (em irr.er.f r.orprioi?: \ nijuical
to our revo!'mvnr~~ — c
American's, r< use 1; < m yov.y ' rgy,
and think for yourfelies ! be r> v* ie«.i
nor iufiuenced by ir spies cr e 'ffavies of
your rate cruil, ar.d present umJ ntingenemies; remember your real republican
friends and iHies the French ; and do not
for; , t the forin&f conduct of the Britiih,
with their infern.il herd of brutilh plunder
ers and barbarians, the Heifians. Let us
' not approximate that state of ignorance
anil contempt which has lately been exem
plified in nglantf, at the embarkation of
the po.>r deluded guards forHelvoc-t Sluys,
to jam the llavifh armies of tyrants, in op
.poiing the invincible patriotic armies of
France ; when they acknowledged " fenii
bly to feel the gracious and alfeKionate
mark of ccrndefcenfioij in their king, who
with the tender regard and anxiety of a fa
ther a cl a friend, honoured their embark
ation with his prcfence !"—Too ignorant
to know he war, fending them like oxen to
the {laughter, merely in defence of his own
empty crown ; but such is the delulion in
ajl kingly governments, that amor t egis
prevails iijftead of amor patria.
The fate of the French revolution must
evidently determine the fate of the United
s tates; with the republic of France we
si rid, with the conquest of France we fall
•In:l:r.:ce Poland, already conquered by
rubbers and divided amonglt tyrants, fu'j
ject to their despotic government and ty
. aniTical laws—Think of ten ;honfand Bri
• i! troops, accompanied - by the king of
i iigland'o son, now in Canada, and in pof
fefiion of our frontier ports, held in viola
tion of treaty, ten miles within the boun
daries of the Uuited States, robbing us of
our fur trade, and supplying the hostile
Tndians with all kinds of military stores to
fight aga'nft us—Think of the preliminary
a' liile of a treaty now proposed and infill
ed upon by the Indians, no doubt dictated
by the British with a view to become pro
prietors tbemfi'lves ; 1 mean a right to the
foil weltward of the Ohio—Think of the
Spaniards to the southward, ufi. g every
means in their power to stir up the Indians
agair.ft us—Sum up all these considerations,
and many more v. hich may naturally oc
cur, and it will b» easy to draw a proper
conclusion. You will surely afiilt those
who have afHfted you in diltrefs : and you
will aid the cause of repnblicanifm in
France, if not from principles of gratitude,
(of which I dill hope you are not desti
tute) y>u mult frim motives of your own
future prosperity.
It therefore behoves us immediately, if
govei nmentally neutral, yet individually
patriots, to contribute our fnpport to th
French cause as our own, and to manifei;
it by signing our names to the fnbfcription
papers now open in this city for that pur
pose.
A CITIZEN.
May 16, 1793.
For the N.vtiinai, Clazstte.
Mr. FreneAu,
CINCF, the consultation of last evening, I
find more embarraflYnent than ever, in
ft right and prudent choice of the belt means
to check the formidable combination of
power drawn up again!! our private pro
perty ; and against the constitutional rights
of every independent citizen in the ltate of
Pennsylvania, as the legislature has ad
journed—For though I have already fuffi
ciently founded the alarm, and exposed the
daring attempts that are made on the dear
est, and molt precious rights of freemen,
by an arbitrary domineering ariflocratic
junto in the city, we are rtill menaced,
aiid infiilted by t ieir sycophantic tools in
power ; who exult in the expectation of
opening their trenches in two weeks, in our
meadow grounds ; and to get through them
in the (ourfe of eighteen months.
The indignantfpiritof patriotism through
out this great and magnanimous common
wealth, will revolFat hearing of such un
manly and contemptible triumphs, over the
few devoted victims to the Canal law, 011
the banks of Schuylkill. But Sir, where
iafolence, ignorance, and power unite to
form the character of a public man, he
will consequently be the belt instrument
for the base purposes of oppression. Hence
it is, that the board of (peculation seem to
have been peculiarly fortuii te in the molt
judicious felechon of their managers, con
tractors, and overseers, for carrying their
canal law, per fas et uefas into inimed .*"=•
operation, through our meadow grounos.
But how shall we account' for the eagcr
i:efs they discover, to fall at this feafori of
the year on those bottom grounds, when
they know, that the whole crops of hay in
every meadow, through which their ban
ditti digs, must inevitably be destroyed ?
Have not those grain of muftard-leed
men, mountains, precipices, and impene-
JB'.r,:ble rocks enough to remove into the
water' of the river Schuylkill to keep up
their stock jobbing bubble for eighteen,
months to come.' Let them come forward
and speak for themselves, and undeceive
a deluded public. I throw drown the
gauiuiet to their pettifoggers, pedagogues
and r.nderfti appers in oilice, to meet me
on folic! constitutional •ground, in a fair and
upright discussion of the question,
It will hardly be credited by our com
patriots of the neijhbnurifig states, that
the people'of Peittlfylvania, renowned as
they jul'tly are, in arts and in arms, should
at so early a period in the infancy (Jf their
government, encouicre the promulgation
of fvvinctling law:, excluflve charters, and
oppreifive monopolies ; ami ;tt the fame
time, proclaim to an aitoniihed world, by
tlie mouth ot' their chief' inagiftr.ite, that
" we cannot err in ascribing the prosperity
of our conntry to the fra :ie and operation
of her political institutions." Isqtvvith
itauding his Excellency's boafVed ' per
fection of our political institutions, Ire
will pardon lire the presumption of an
unequivocal, nay, an unanftverahle contra
diction to his encomiums on-the ii;(iiUuior
of the Schuylkill canal company. For
whatever a few interested' individuals
may propose to themfclves by that arbitra
ry law, the independent class ot citizen!
in the couflty of Montgomery,and through
the (Sate, as far as my obferv itions havt
extended, begin to think for therafe'.ves
and are greatly alarmed at the unconstitu
tional fao.i'-.ces of private property, thai
will be made for the local conveiiiency o■
aud emolument of the board of specula
tion, and the corporation of the city o,
Philadelphia.
R. S.
Plymouth, (Montgomery County,) Ma)
10th, 1793.
PHILADELPHIA.
Saturday, May iS.
On Thursday J ast, at one o'clock, P. M
arrived in this city. Citizen GENET, Am
baflndorfrom the Republic of France, t<
the United States of America. We ar«
authorized to fay, that Citizen Genet can
not fufficiently express his gratitude forth(
kind hospitality of the inhabitants of the ft
veral Hates through which he has passed
lince his departure from Charleston, to hi
arrival in Philadelphia. He Jias ever;
where observed among the Americans, :
grateful attachment ta those who, lik'
thcmfelves at a former period, are now
ftrtiggling in the cause of liberty ; and ha:
every where received the mofi flattering
marks of attention. On his way hither
both farmers and merchants readily offeree
him their floiir, and other articles of pro
vision, at a lower price than the/ wouli
dilpofe of them to the agents of any othei
nation. The article of flour only, that ha
been offtredhim, amounts to more tha'
!;x hundred thousand barrels.
The crowds of citizens that flocke;
from every avenue of this city to meet tht
republican ambaflador of an allied natljpr
at Gray's ferry, were a proof to him tha
the Penpfylvanians are not Tjehinrl theii
lellow citizens of other slates in tjie fpir'll
of republican pairiotifin. We have nc
doubt but the popular charaiter and enga
ging affability of Citizen Genet, will gair
him the efieem of the inhabitants of this
city and country ; and awaken in therr
sentiments of gratitude for our generou:
allies, the defenders'of the rights of inar
and reat friends to America in the dart:
days of war and desolation.
On Ttiefdav evening arrived here, the (his
Argonaut, of Marseilles,• (mounting it
guns,) Capt. Chabert, from China and the
llleof France. This veflel was bound tc
i'Orient ; but not being well informed ol
the Date of European politics with refpeft
to peace or war, thought it moll prudenl
to make for this continent She has had 72
days from the I lie of Franee, brings a car
go of teas, nankeens, &c. in value to the
amount of two millions of livres. J;he wa:
formerly a frigate, belonging to 'the Pope,
called the St. Charles; butnowh private
property : —mounts 14 pieces of 12, and 2
of i-6.
Some curious pecuniary manoeuvring ha;
lately taken plSce in thi city. Menacing
letters, demanding sums of money, were
sent to several perfoiis, thro the medium
of the port office, with fictitious signatures.
and directing money to be enclosed tc
their addrels, thro' the fame channel. On
Fuefday afternoon, a hair dresser, of the
name of Guillioux, brought a paper to the
pest office containing the several fictitious
names, and requeuing to receive the letters
so them directed, if any. He w;r» imme
diately apprehended, and, after some pre
varication, acknowledged he had been em
ployed by Mr. Joseph' Ravai a, who had
..ireatened, in cafe of discovery, that an
accomplice would infallibly assassinate him.
Upon this evidence Mr. Ravara was taker,
before an alderman, who confirmed the
hair dress. r's Itory; adding that a person
unknown to him, from Spanish America,
had requeued him to ?pply for these let
ters, for as they were intrigues offtate, he
dared not to appear, left he should em
broil himfelfwith the Spanifu commission
ers'."— .Mr. Ravara is committed to jail, to
take his trial.
The Governors of the States of New-
York and Maryland have ifftied proclama
tions. similar to the Federil proclamation,
ifi'ued on the 22d of April lalt', enjoining a
conduct of itrift neutrality towards the bel
ligerent powers.
The armed fliip Argonaut, that arrived
here 011 Tuesday evening last, from China,
left the island of St. Helena on the 31ft u;
March. They, had intended to anchor and
take in water there, but from fever.: 1 fuf
picioiis circumflances (particularly the tie
t&ntion of a .French armed tirlg by the
Englilb goverhor) the captain quitted the
i(laud fw.idenly, leaving his boat with nine
it)en on fiiore.
On the ijtli of April, a bombardment of
the town of Port-au-Prince took place, in
eonfequence of an obltinate oppoiition
made hy the aristocratic faction there, to
acknowledge, or treat with commiflioners
from the Republic of France, whoarrived
there i't the America, a French 74 gun
ihip anci two large frigates, on tile 4th oi
April. About 9, A- M. the America con:-
silenced a molt dreadful cannonade (ail the
merchant /hips, French and American hav
ing been previoufiy ordered out of the
port.) The America began the cannon
ade on Fort St. Clair, the frigates at the
fame time benibarcung the town, which
continued without a mcine a's intermiifior
till some time in the afternoon. Three a
ri.locratic forts returned the fire with des
perate intrepidity. It was computed the
three (hips elfcharged about 3,500 large
balls again(f the tow n and forts ; upward:
of 80 persons were killed in the town.—
Towards evening, Borell, the leader oi
the_ aristocrats, made his elcape with 30c
whites and ico negroes, to Jacomell. The
cailnonade then ceased, and tlie commif
lioners took poffellion. Four of the ring
leaders of tiie faction were lent on board
the America and hanged. Tranquility i:
now restored lo the island, the commifli
oners ;ire engaged in organizing the army,
and ali are republicans again, notwith
(tanding the attempts made by emifiarie!
to difaifect them from the national cause.
r bree hundred ol the mofl dangerous aris
tocrats are imprisoned on board the met
of war."
A large number of French emigrants
have lately arrived in Canada, amongll
which are said ttf be lixty Roman Catholic
prielts. The governor of Canada has if
ftied his proclamation, commanding the
Britifli fubjefts in that province, to make
prizes or' all Fi ench Vefiels that shall fall ir
their power.
Ou the ift of March, the provifionarj
executive council of the French Republic,
reported the fubdivilionsof the French ar
mies.—The whole amount from the seve
ral fubdivilions of the north is 50,039 men,
under Gen. Duniourier, Eruflels the place
of rendezvous. 2. The army of Arden
nes, under Gen. Valence, 32,757 men;
Sedan the place of rendezvous. 3. The
1 my of the Moselle, under Gen. Beurnon
vdle, 33.416' men, rendezvous, Metz. 4.
Army of the Lower Rhine, Under Gen.
Cuftine, 45,885 men, rendezvous. Stras
bourg. 5. Army of the Ardennes, under
Gen. Kellerman, 30,508 ; rendezvous,
Grenoble. 6. Army of Italy, under Gen.
Biron, 3 1 .Sfi »ien, rendezTotis, Antibcs.
7. Army of tiie Pyrenees, under Gen. Ser
van, 30,566, places of rendezvous, Per
pignan and Bayonne. 8. Army of the
coasts, under Gen. Labourdonnaye, 43.553
men ; places of rendezvous. Rochelie,
Vanncs, Quimpen, St. Malo, Vologne and
Havre.—Besides these, there is an army of
refer ve; under Gen. Berruyer.—The sum
total of all the abo-ve, is 298,537 men, cx
clulive of Berruyer's army. —To this im
rnenfe force, more than double tlie num
ber was to be added, provided the fo.tes
of the German empire should attempt an
impression 011 the territories of the Repub
lic.
The flip Charlotte, lately arrived at
Bollon from London, brings the following
paragraph, elated Peterib'urg, Feb. 4.—
'• Our victorious armies are putting them
feive? in motion to go againlt the F.'-ench
regicide*.a formidable fleet commanded by
the intrepid admiral Riias, will immedi
ately pass thro' the (traits of the Dardan
elles, ;:nd proceed to attack Marseilles.
The celebrated general Suwarrow will
embark on the fame fleet-with a body of
troops destined to make a descent. Prince
Imarette is in full march, at the head of
20,000 Coflaeks and Kalmucks (!!!) and
three thousand Huflars. to join the combi
ned army. They will be followed, we
are allured, by another body of regular
troops."
When our laO accounts left England, it
was generally believed that the infatuated
n inifiry had entered into a league with
the despotic powers on the continent, to
re-eflablifli monarchy in France by the
point of the bayonet. The league was al
ready so. [trong that the Fngiifh vefiels of
war took all merchant ships whatever co
ming out of French ports, whether neutral
or otherwise.—Very late letters mention
that Mr. Pitt had informed the hotife of
commons that there was a prolpeJt of mat
ters being accommodated with France,
and that lie acknowledged the Frcnch
fleet to be superior to the Englilii —If there
beany truth in this, it may be explained
by the following paragraph from a London
paper, "The king of Prufila has idema; d
ed a categoric d iiifwer of our court,
whether it is their intention to join fpirit
eelly with the combined powers for re
ettabli thing monarchy in France. And in
c ,fe they lhoiild not, it was his determina
tion immediately to withdraw bimfelf
with his forces and retire to his own do
minions."
The celebrated Baron Trenck, who
fuffered ten years imprifonmcnt in the duu
geon of Magdebourg, by the old tyrant of
Prussia, that scourge of mankind, is arriv
ed in France, from Hamburg, This man
vyas (hut up for the "pelled of years,
uirh a critft of bread, a jug of water, and
hktomb-ftone conflantiy before his eyes ;
the iii/iriptioo only legible, by tJtaint,
glimmer of day that was admitted !—
A writer in the Virginia Hearld. (who
ligns himfelf Hamiltomertftj) fearing that
many perfojH-might be at a lots to inder
itand the meaning of certain terms in the
late reports of the Secretary of the Trea
ftiry, tints explains the word Jijirumcvta--
lity, from Sam. Johnson's folio dictionary.
'Instrumental it y—agency of any th.ng
as Kieani to an end.—Perhaps J'ome of the
members of the late Congress may give 3
more fatisfaflory definition.'
There is now living, near Prince Ed
ward court liotlfe Virginia, a person na
med John Holloway, born in England in
the year 1669. He left England in 1714,
and arrived iirVirginia a few v eeks after.
At the age of 67 he married a woman of
44, by whom he had a son now alive, aged
J.l ■ — Holloway is now in the year
of his age, and in good health and lpirits.
The Secretary of the land office of this
fl.Tte, withthe Receiver and Surveyor Ge
neral, notified the public on the 13th in
stant, that a considerable number of war
rants of fnrvey are ready to be delivered
to the persons refpecliveiy who have filed
applications therefor, and that unless
within 30 days from the date of their notice
filth warrants are c: lied for, and paymert
made according to law, the refpeQive ap
pliiat'ons wilt Infe their priority, and
warrants will be iflued for the lands, to
any other persons who shall make appli
cation according to law, and who fnall
pay for the fame."
The Britifli, in Nova-Scotia, are forti
fying Halifax with additional (hong works
of defence, and repairing the'.old ones. A
regiment of troops was railing, and the mi
litia embodying.
An Englifli fleet is arrived at Antigua,
under Admiral Hood, with 2000 troops on
board. The merchants of Antigua are
fitting out privateers against the French,
who had been very fuccefsful In capturing
Britifli veflels, particularly off Turk's-Ifj
nnd, where tiiey had cruising two feventy
four's and a' jogun ftiip, besides frigates,
and many prirateers.
Fourthoufand French National troops
are arrived at Cayenne, a French province
in South Amerisa.
Heads of foreign Intelligence since our lafl-
F.nglifh veflels in conformity to the mi
nisterial plan of sowing disunion in France,
had landed great numbers of incendiaries
or. the northerneoaffs of the republic.parti
cularly Normandy. These w ere chiefly fa
natic priffts or emigrants, who by exciting
a spirit of fanutacifm among the ignorant,
had in some places succeeded in disturbing
the public peace. The exertions of the
good citizens, however, had cruil ed nil
tears of a counter revolution—Recruiting
was going o-i rapidly; and tofuch a degree,
upon hearing of the cheek in the Nether
lands, that there was a profpe£t of railing.
300,000 additional men in a fortnight, if
nejeflary, to maiehto the frontiers—pub
lic loans were effected uiih ease—the na
tional finances well regulated, and ,;!c
----quute to every exigency—their navy fnl
ly manned with brave and determined men
now free from the effeminate courtly
wretches that formerly oi,graced the ua
trv element, and flamed the marine cha
raclsr ct the French—Not a fmgle mer
chant of consequence had foiled a ftrono
proof that the national spirit is above aiT
casual misfortune—ln England eve. y thing
feenu-d verging to the worlj—credit at a
very low ebb, and loans not to be had un
der 8 per cent—a large fleet w ere laying at
Spithead, but wholly inactive, while the
French were scouring the channel with
only fourteen fail of the line j mercantile
and manufacturing bufmefs wasar a f:>-d ;
one bank in London had fail. . two
millions,with many capital hoi.fes, and in
evitable national bankruptcy feemtd close
at hand.
At a meeting of the citizens of Philadel
phia, on Thursday evening lalf, it wa u
nammoufly resolved. That a committee < f
seven citizens flionld be appointed to pre
pare an Address to M. Genet, minilUr
from the republic of France to tfie United
States ; and that a general meeting of the
citizens should be called on Friday evening
to receive the report of the committee.
Agreeable to notice, a very large and
refpe&.ible number of the cit'Lens met,
according to appointment, when the com
mittee repoi ted the-draft of an adsireis
which was twice'read, unanimonfly agreed
to, and a committee of thirty appointed to
pi efent the fame. The commitli e ac
cordingly repaired to the city tavern, two.
by two, followed by an iinmenfe eonccnrfe
of the citizens, walking in procefiion, and
there prefeiited the minister with the ad
dress, who alter receiving them in a molt
friendly and polite manner, made a
verbal reply, in terms the mod ieelir •
and afiecfionate, which was answered bv
the Ipudeft acclamations of the citizens, t-x
prei'ive of jheir sincere joy on this, ani
mating Qccalioo.F.Xtrafls Tranjlated from a French pamphlet
entitled, Opinion of CONDORCET,
on the trial of Eouis the XVlth.
Printed by order of the National Convention
" an occasion where a whole of-
Vy fended nation is at once accufei
and judge, it is to the opinions of mankind
and posterity that they ought to be ac
countable for their conduct. All the
general principles of jurisprudence, recog
nized as luch by the enlightened men ol
all countries, (hould be refpe&ed. Tliey
ought to defy the blindelt partiality to
adduce any maxim of equity which they
have not ftriftlv observed j and when a
king is judged, kings themfelvesin the fe
cret of tneir hearts, (hould he compelled
to assent to the jnftice of the sentence.
It is necessary for the good of mankind
that the cor.dust of the French in regard
to the man whom they too long called their
king, (hould put a finding ilroketo thefu
perftitious hom :ge of other nations to luch
chara&ers: above ali things we (hould be
careful not to increase this fuperflition a
mong those where it (till reigns. All na
lions do not acknowledge those eterna'
truths upon whose impregnable basis the
French repu lie is founded; and whillt
•ur ph lofophers and our soldiers arc
spreading them among foreign nations,
while tyranny trembles alike before our
armies and our principles, it might be im
prudent to altonifh, perhaps to Itartle, by
the ralhnefs of our proceedings, those who
Would pay refpe-t to (evere but impartial
equity. We mult submit our decisions
then to the laws of t at universal justice,
Common to all constitutions, immutable in
the mi''ft of the (hock of opinions and the
revolutions of empire.
„ Tl e question is, can the ci-devant king
be tried i Aw adtion cannot lawfully be
punished, unkfs a former 1. w had expressly
made it criminal; nor bysny other mode
of punishment than what had been decreed
by a 'ormer law also. This maxim is the
voice of humanity and jultice. but if in
the catalogue of crimes the law may not
have diftindtly marked ont those which
cir umltances of aggravation render more
highly criminal, we ought not to conclude
from thence that it meant they (hould gc
unpuniihed, but simply that these circum
ftanccs of aggravation (hou'd not appear
to enjoin the eflablilhment of a particulat
punilhment. The laws of Solor. said not
a word agaiuft murder : but are we to con
clude from thence that the monger whe
wis guilty of such a crime would have 50m
unpunidied ?—No, he would have furfe-ec
the punishment due to a murderer. II
the laws of France are silent stc
the punr'iment of a traitor king, altho :
much more highly criminal than a citizen,
it does not follow from thence, that he
ought to be spared, but only that tht
compilers of the laws did not mean to dif
criminate him from other traitors. If ther
he has not been made a formal exception
of by f me particular law, it follows that
he may be judged by the lawi
But, was an exception made in his fa
vour in the constitution ? Citizens, if fuel
impunity had been decreed ; if the Conlti
tuting Assembly could have b«en guilty o)
such a crime against the world ; if the
tion had been weak enough, by its silence,
by the choice of its representatives, by the
oaths which it required of them, to conferil
to so dilhonorable a law ; as the friend ol
liberty I would fay, The king can neithei
be judged orpuuilhed.—But such a scan
dalous impunity was not mentioned—atic
only two articles in the constitution make
it credible that such a thing was in'en ed,
In one the person of the king is declared
inviolable and faired ; in the ot er it is de.
clared, that, for crimes committed aftei
his lagal abdication, he (hall be tried like
other citizens.
It is necessary then to discuss the mean
ing of these two articles, and however mi
nute the difq.ifition may appear, I hope
I (hall be excused for entering upon it
when it is considered that there can be no
liberty in a country where pofuive law i:
not the only rule of trials. The social
compidt does not e-ffentially consist in the
consenting to submit to the antecedent and
common rules of moial relation between
man and man, the natural rights of whom
are the basis and limits of legal principles.
The law pcfitive ought to be nothing
else, in a wife legislation, than a conse
quence or an application of these rights,
adopted and agreed to, or at lead a'ready
known arid understood by those fubjedfed
to thit law. Soj the queition would not be
whether a sentence should be declared, after
natural law, or after an arbitrary law, but
whether adtions ought to be judged accor
ding to what was thought to be jtift when
they were committed, and not according
to what was deemed to be just at any
succeeding time.
J he person of the king was declared fa
cred. Either this woid has no meaning
at all, or the fame as is attributed to the
principles of relit-ious feftauans. Unjust
violence is a crime against religion, fttper
added to a crime atfainfl society ; in legal
f ntrnces of criminality, degradation pre
cedes judgment, in otder thereby to in
pire more refpeft for a chnrafier in fomc
fo-t fupernattual. By this expression the
constitutional king was compared to a bi
; (hop or a priest, whose persons weie also
sacred altho' notw thftanding amenable
to the laws for their conduit.
I iie authors of the constitution, in their
making royalty one of its principles, erect
ed a power out of the order of nature, and
thought it necefTary to have recourse to the
terrors of superstition for the better secu
rity of kings; but the only result of the
expression is, that if royalty had not been
abolished, the king's sentence of forfeiture
might have been pronounced by a fcpa
rate decree
1 he word inviolable, is not defined in
the conftitution,where it treats of royalty ;
but it is defined in another place, where
it speaks of the repreftntativct of the peo
ple.
Their inviolabil'ty includes two condi
tions, perfectly dilliriift, and both appli
cable to the king ; the one, that thev
lhall not be prosecuted f.r any thing said
or done in quality of representative ; and
after the appointment of a king, it was
thought neceflary he Ihould partake of the
chara&er of inviolability.
This prerogative being extended to all
the acts of th • executive power, ifTued by
the king, presented fconfequences of dan
ger veiy different from that of the repre
ientatives ofthe people. It was neceflary
that the king should have those acts fign
:d by a miniller responsible for their le
gality ; the nation was not without a
guarantee ; and if they had it not so com
pletely as the principles of rigid jufticc
Teemed to demand, it was as much so a!
was compatible with the absurd intermix
ture of royalty.
Thus then, all the a£ls of the king as
the truilee of the national power could
not be imputed to him ; but he was ac
cused by the public voice of crimes whol
ly disconnected with royal fun&ions It
was not in hl3 kingly charafler that he
paid for libels calculated to destroy the
national credit ; that he furnifhed monies
to the enemies of France ; that he for
med in concert with his brothers, a
league with the enemies of his country,
It was not as king of France, that in di
rect contradiction and contempt of lawi
approved by himfelf, he armed foreign
soldiers against our citizens.
Another condition annexed to the in
violability of the representatives ele&ed
by the people is, their being exempted
from prosecution, except in virtue of a
decree of the legislature. So, when in
the con ft it lit ing a(T;mbly, the question
was agitated on the king's inviolability,
a motive was allcdged, and with some
reason, that from the nature and impor
tance of his station and duties, he could
not be fubjeft to answer at the tribunal
ot jufticc, at the requisition of those very
officers whose comluft he himfelf was ap
pointed to guard. It was proved that
the man who had authority to suspend
the enaction of laws, the head of the ex
ecutive power, of the army, and of the
marine, ought not to be exposed to arrest
from the great duties of his office, by the
will of any particular tribunal. Other
reasons were used, and with like success
in his favour, to fectire the representa
tives of the people from being fubjeft to
the common mode of judicial profecutio-is.
Thus it appears that a method was traced
out forpunifhing a reprefen'ative of the
people, which they did not dare to apply
to the king ; at the fame time it must be
confeffed.that the constitution of France,
made at a time when (he was but h .If
rid of her fetters, never admitted so b:,fe
a principle in direst terms, that a king
who proved a traitor, an incendiary, or
an assassin, should go unpunished. ' Can
any one believe, that if so base a princi
ple had been in the text of the
constitution, the nation would have adop
ted, or assented to the constitution, oc re
garded it es binding upon them I Or
would we have dared to have held it up
to mankind as a constitution less debased
by cv-.-y gross violation of" natural right,
than tnc conflitut'ons of mo!t other nati
ons ?
Will any one fny that the inviolability
of the king ought to be sacred b'.'cault
in rcfpedi to hitn thete can be noimparti
al judges ? Th s is faying, the greater the
crime a man commits the Icfa does he
merit punifliment ; and that attempts
upon the fafety of the whole people
ought to be exempted from the attaint
of the laws. According to this reasoning,
any king at the head of a conspiracy, who
had endangered the liberties of his CCUII
- might fay to a nation—" You can
not judge me, for I have offended you ail ;
there is not one of you but I havs put in
his rights, his property, or his
life. In this cafe every individual has a
right to provide for his own fafety, and
becomes independent, since the law ceases
to protest him. Such a refinement on
u ice would be the lignal for every, fpe
jcies of arbitrary vengeance and difordei.
Will any one bring as a proof of this
absolute impunity, the article by which
the king, in cafe of legal abdication, is to
be tried for crimes afterwards committed,
like other citizens ? but, for crimes com
mitted after their dedtion, the representa
tive, being now inviolable, as legislators
are judges as well as other citizens.
1 he inviolability of king and represen
tatives, being exprefTed by the fame word,
should be undei flood in the fame sense,
with this sole difference, that the constitu
tion has prcfcribed the mode of trial for
the latter, but is silent with regard to the
king ; and such silence was doubtless fuf
ficient to rouse the indignation of men
who carried in their breads the fenti
ments of liberty and equality.
Thus we fee the impunity of the king
was not established by the constitution :
neither has it fixed the mode of trial. It
has declared, that if he had ceased to hi
king he might, for crimes fubfeqnently
committed, be prosecuted and tried like
other citizens ; but has determined no
thing on the mode of trial and profecuti*
on for anterior crimes.
I might finifh my examination cl
the constitutional articles. In fact, if a
ftrift adherence to the letter of the law is
nectflary to the prosecution or puntfli
men: of an individual ; if he cannot be
prosecuted and brought to trial when the
law it not positively and formally agaiuil
him, is it not equally jjft, on the con ra
ry, when exceptions are to be made and
especially exceptions eppofed to the com
mon ideas of justice, founded on political
confederations, not to extend fuclt privile
ges beyond the precile text of the law :
If these exceptions, as including the wholf
body of individuals, do Hot fall upon fom<
persons in particular, unless at a rifle equa
to all, they ought to be conflrued in the
moll favourable sense."
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATION'S.
Mat 1793*
D - Weather*
Tuefrlay, 7. 6 30. 4 50 N. E. C /Wy
May. 3 1Q- 4 08 | do. Fair.
Pf'edmjday, 8. 6 30. 35 5g [calm Chuj.
:J. 5 |5- W. fair.
Tturjday, 9. i 30. 35 61 a.m.
3 2 W. Fair.
Fnaay, ,0. 0 70. 5 OJ b. Sbotvc's
' 71 do. Hazy.
Saturday, 11. 6 3 c. ,1 55 V. E. CUu7y~^
; 3°. 3 75 SS. K. fair.
Sunday, is. 6 30. I 61 5. Ctouay. '
3 "I- 76 W. Shiver,
Monday, 13.6 29.95 57 N. FWT~
3 *!>• 95 78 1 E. Fair.
I Have claims to about two hundred and
fil'ty ihoufand,acres of LAND in the (tare o!
Kriltuckey, in different parts of that country
some of which 1 know to be equal to any ; al
f wheh 1 am inclined to dispose ~t", either bv
entire sale, or by a Quitting one, or two partners'
to whom the agency on the whole wilt'be com.
mitted.
One fourth of the contrast will be required ir
hand, eithr.r in rash, nierchandile, or such after:
as may be converted to afliveufe,- t 1 rsfidu.
may be apportioned in convenient inrtalwer.ts,
ihe purchafcrs to give security, on the land,
or otherwajs.as suits them.
Knowing that there is a prejudice against the
titles of land in that (late, which is more general
than just, J am willing to stipulate in the ctn
tuft, that a discount, or drduclion, be
made, where anylaud may be loft, by realon o: 5
'kfeflive title.
Any person inclining to such a purchase, is re
queltcd to write to me by port, 'in a-if' er to
V.bom; more particular information will be given,
H R N R r BANKS.
Richmond March 20, 17J3. aj w:f
IN TIMATION
RejpeEiing James Fairruealh r, sometime ir.
the fourth brigade of Rritijh artillery.
David fairwlatki.r, ia-e feed fm an
■I "> »* PjeaUnce of Edinburgh, tforth Bri
c-iii, having oied in the moot!) of November last,
tiu aforefaid James Fairweather, his only Ton,
iucceeds to his father's heritable and personal et
tatr, which is ronlideiable. His relations are
anx'ous it he be alive, that he th ;uld immediately
return to Edinburgh, and on applying to Mr.
William Whyte, writer, in Charles Itreet, Edin
burgh, he will be put in pofiriiion of his father's
citare. Ihe aforelaid James Fairweather, it is
believed, was left at New.York, in North Ame
rica when the Rritifh army evacuated that city.
It is requested that any person who has leen or
heard of him lince, or knows of his piefent refi
uenf, or of his death, will Cranfmit any intelli
ence concerning him to Mr. Robert Campbell,
b jokfeller in Philadelphia, or Mr. Samuel Cimo.
be!,, bookseller, in New-York. Any shipmaster
or Oiher person, who will bring the said James
. L airweather to Britain, or advance him money for
that purpofc, will b - repaid by MeflVs. Campbell,
'T Why re. It the said James Fairweather be
dead, his children if he left any, are entitled ti> the
afoie faia fucceliion, on proving their propinquity.
May 4. Jt
TO BE RENTED,
And pofl; ilion fciven in J il\ next.
A Merchant MILL,
si, LSO, a COUNTRY and a SAW MILL,
X X either leparatety or together, with all the
c >iiveniencifs thereunto belonging, of a
good framed dwelling honfe, store house, granary,
Coopers thop, ftaolits, &c. all i„ perfect good or
oer and almost new, Stuate in a fine wheat coun
ty, on a .onftant and plentiful dream of warer,
■t the head of a navigable creek, called Mifiipi -on,
from whence the lha lops ti»nf„nrt flour to Phila
delphia wi'hout any trouble to the miller, and ad
' "nmg a flonrilhing village that always affords a
very ready lale for the offal of the merchant mill,
and an abundance of custom to the countrv and
.aw mills. Thole advantages tender these mifls
rtlrior to none in this country j and the fituatioa
'or a ltore is equal to any in the Hate. The
merchant mill is three dories high with two pair
or burr flones, double gear'd, a rolling fcreene and
fann that cleans wheat into both hoppers, two
bolting cherts, and a machine for hoiOing that goes
by water. This mill fnanufadlures principally
foDei fine flour, that is much elteemed as such in
Philadelphia For terms *cply to Robert Lewis
and Co. merchants in Philadelphia, or the sub-
Icribers near the premises.
ELIZABETH THORNE,
PETER CAVERLY.
Milford, Kent County, State of Delaware
May. 1, J793. 2a wt
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold by ThomasDobson Wil
liam Young, Robert Campbell,
MeflVs. Rice and Co. and John M-
Cullocii, No. 1, North Third-street,
A N EXAMINATION of the late pro
* ceedings in Congress refpe&ing the
official conduct of the Secretary of the
Treasury ; with Observations, &c. on the
application of loans from Holland, neooci
ated tinder the ads of the 4th and 12 th of
Augult 1790. —The price of the above
pamphlet is three sixteenths of a dollar, or
is 4d. 1-2 April 24. 2aw tf
i.
Journeymen Saddlers >
WANTED,
By the Society of Master Saddlers of the city
of Philadelphia—Filtten or twenty work
man ofthe above profcfiion,willmeet with constant
employment and generous wages, by applying to
WILLIAM JONES, Sccietary to the society, at
No. 3, South Front-Iheet.
A P ril 24" zaw 6t
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold at the refpeflive Book Stores of
Jofepb CrukJJjank and Thomas Dcifon, and may
be had at the Printing office. No. 2C9, Mar
ket-Street. *[Price one eighth of a dollar.J
LETTERS
Addrefled to the Yeomanry of the
United States:
Containing some Observations on Funding
and Batik Syflemr.
By an AMERICAN FARMER.
Harrijbxrgh Mail Stage.
STARTS every Wednefdav from Mr. Henry
Epply's in race ctree , between third and
fourt* ftreers, and arrives at Hariilburgh on tll«
Saturday morning following—Starts, from Mr.
Crabb's, innkeeper, Harriiburgh, on Monday
and arrives on Wednelday at Philadelphia
N. G. The Reading stage ft.irts from Retdii/g,
at John Witman's, innkeeper, on Monday, arid
arrives at Philadelphia on Tuesday morning—
Then starts from Philadelphia on Friday morn
ing at 4 o'clock, and arrives at Reading on Sa
turday morning. The grea'.eft care and attenti
on /hall be paid by the publics' humble iervant.
WILLIAM COLEMAN.
N. B. A light stage upon springs, with two
horses, or without horses, with complete g'eers,
may be had at any moments' warning, for the
accommodation of ladies and gentlemen, by ap
plying to the above named Wm. Coleman, living
n the borough of Reading.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS and SWAINE
AT THEIk OFFICE NO. KJGH>STRE£T/
NEAR FIF TH-STH t£ T,
p HILAD ELfH I A,