By P. FRENEAU: (at No. 300, Market Street) Pub'ifhcd aid Sato k days, [Tiip.es Dollars ;,t
Nume. 86 of Vol. ll.] SATUR DA Y, Augufl: 24, 1793-
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
VfANY 1 long-winded'Eflays have been
brought before the public, in confe
quenoe of the Prelidem's proclamation,
&c. and other proceedings of our «ov?rn
ment, in which the'affairs of the republic
of France were atfefled ;—there has been
much unnecefi'ary, a:id even tirefoine de
clamation from the crimlnatiri and rec i
mi'intorSi who take up a considerable por
tion of their pieces in personal inveilive—
The generality of readers would
to fee the ar ininents on both fides (fated
with precision, in preference to having
them enveloped with Inch high colouring.
1 do not Hold the infillibility of any mortal,
however dignified the flation to which lie
is exalted. When he i? supposed to have
erred, it ought to be told in a mild and in
oft'enfive meaner ; biu if he perseveres, I
do not think he can be tgo severely re
primanded.
We have b?en, (I was about to fjy, en
tertained) instead of which read.difgudcd,
with repeated exprellions of tear, left Bri
tain fliould take in dudgeon any bro
therly acts of friendfhip towards #Ur re
publican allies ; even though they fliould
not exceed what is particularly stipulated
-for in extfting treaties. How unmanly—
how pulillanimous and effeminate are tht fe
fears. If Britain, or ratHer George 111.
ii difpofrd for a declaration of war against
this country, he will not defer it long (or
want of a p. i :ence. If he wishes to main
tain peace, 110 act of our government, if
conformable to treaties, will provoke it ;
although we fliould even perinitthe French
to fell their prizes in our porti, and pro
Libit the Englilli from actinjj in the fame
manner. I am fully persuaded it is the
wish of the great body of my fellow-citi
zens to remain in peace ; but at the fame
time, I may as fafely affirm, it is their de
lire to shew every favour ft) the French
that can be done confidently with neutra
lity. These are not mere aflertions, but
collefled from the conversation of people
r.'veral hundred miles apart, and of the
majority with whom I conversed in the in
termediate places through which I palled.
But for my lingle felf, were try arm nerv
ed with flrength fufficient, I would give a
fatal {tab to the hydra despotism, which
nothing will satiate but thousands ot re
publicans for her daily repart.
A TRAVELLER.
From the General Advertiser
rpHE late capture at sea, on her pallage
-*■ from New Orleans to Philadelphia, ot
the vcffl'l built on the Ohio, witllin the
ll.ite of Prnnfylvania, owned by citizens ol
the United States, and whofecargo belong
ing to American citizens, conii::s in pro
ductions of the growth of this country, de
inoultrates the evident necoflity of a treat j
with Spain, refpeiting the navigation ol the
jYliffii'ppi.
It is a matter of fact, that the lands oi
the wedern country are much more luxu
riant and fertile than tho-'e of the Atlantic
parts of the United States ; it will follow
then that western cultivated landd will af
ford a larger proportion of produce for
exportation than the fame quantity of
cultivated lands on the ealterti fid? oi the
mountains ; but when we take also into
conlideration, that no.t of the wellern
inhabitants are farmers, thnt there are but
few mschanics among them, and that they
have no large towns to fnpply, we will
readily admit that the proportion of theit
produce for foreign market mud be ft'jl
greater. It is very true that the popula
tion of the weflern country is inconlidera
bl?, comparatively with the vast extent of
that territory ; yet the number of its inha
bitants is respectable, and defervedoubtlefs
the attentiwii of the lupreme legislature oi
the Union. The slate of Pennfvlvania has
fe»eral populous counties beyond the moun
tains, whose produce must go to market b)
the Alleghany and Monongahela rivers
.down the Ohio and Miffifippi. Virginia is
in the famelituation, as to herpoflelfions or
the Ohio and Great Kanhaway rivers. Tilt
fiate of Ketituckey, which is far from be
ing contemptible for the number of het
inhabitants, has no other way to export
v her produce. The territory north well
of the Ohio, comprehending the several
settlements of Scioto, Miami, Wabafh, and
the villages and country of the Illinois,
ill the very fame predicament : and lalily,
the territory south of the Oli'o, containing
upwards of 50,000 fouls, lies altogether on
the weflrern waters, and is more conveni-1
fitnated than all the others to the na
vigation of the Miffilippi. At a mode
rate calculation then, w- may well elti
maie half a million of people, modlv far
mer, who can export none of their pro
duce, but through the channel of the Mif
iilippi. So great a part of the nation ought
not and cannot much longer be negtefted.
The preterded exclnfive right of S'pa'n
to the navigation of the Miffifippi.Ufotliiri*d
on no principle of equity or natural justice.
— Thalia country of more extent than any
of the kingdom ol Europebe debarred of
its natural right of fendi ig its produce to
sea, because Spain happens to have a small
town with a few filbjects hear the mouth ol
the Miffilippi ? Ho'.v long will Americans
fubinit to the oppreflion of paving, a hea\)
and degrading tribute to a Spanilh officer,
for a license (In his power ever to deny)
to proceed to lea with their vefl'cl and pro
duce ? ar.d kinder the rellriftion of mik
ing Inch veflels Spailifh bottoms, which
fubjeils them to be feizable by the armed
Ihips 6f France.— In what a wretched Htua
tion these arbitrary proceedings of Spain
placeour w edern i itizeHs ! If they will) t<
export their produce, they mult not onh
snake life of the mod hurtrlilt folicitatiom
but they are compelled besides to piy a
very high duty for the permilfion of failing
nut of the M liifippi under the colours of a
foreign nation at war with our allies.—
How degrading fnch reft rittions ! how
rumiliatinjr 10 dii American !
It is easy to forefee w hat willbe the con
equence, if a treaty be not soon, and very
oo 1, negociated with Spain. — The wellern
nh. bitants, whose increase daily
jy the conllaut emigrations from the At
antic dates, have oomph Ined for nea
en years pad, of the op, relfion they labour
inder : but the confidence they had in
heir delegated rulers, caused themto wait
ill now, not without impatience, the ef
fects of negociation ; they are a hardy,
:ourageous and enterprizing people, and
hough they entertain the greatill rtfpe;t
"or the laws of their country, and thou»h
hey are much attached tojhe federal J,o
,'eminent, yei their favorite axiom in po
i;ics is, (a maxim eflabiilhed unanimously
n (776, by the Congress of the United
tate;) " that alleg<anct and protection art
'eciprocal
Quousqur tandem, Hifyania, abuteris Patentij
nostia ?
" X.
r'he Affellations and Fopperies cf Heroes
and K 1 Ngs.
[From an FiiglifhxMagazine.}
"pHRRE is 110 kind of folly that satire
hath fadened tij'on with a keener
:oolh, than foppery. There i- scarce avir
:ue, which hath been more highly extolled
:tiati magnificence. It is natural, there
rore, to luppofe, that the noble receptior
lllowcd to the lad, has been the bait ti
educe such numbers into the lirfl ; • and
t-et there is 110 more similitude between
.hem, than between paint and beauty.
The very elfence of the ridiculous is af
"eftiition ; nor would the owl and ass bo
reated so ludicruudy, as they always are,
f, overtheir natural dulnefs, they did not
ivear the malk of w ifdoni. As-Sancho fa
;acioufly declares, we a r e all as God made
us ; and, therefore, while we continue a:
ive are made, we ;.re no way obnoxious tc
jlame or laughter, for not being what vc
ivere never intended to be.
But common sense is not ful to the
u ill of kings, and challenges a prerogative
fupcrior to theirs.
Hence it w as, that even a diadem col-Jtl
not cover the ass-ear; ot Midas ; throng!:
that dazzling circle they beti ,--ed them,
[elves, and every sycophant who approach
ed him, laughed in his sleeve, if not in his
sovereign's face.
Had his ailinine majefty /lever slept into
the judgment-feat, and underteek to be e
man of tade, he had never fallen under the
displeasure of Apollo, or been ear-mark
for tjie ridicule «f all ages.
I' have ever been particularly pleafec
with Ovid, for having played off this plea
fant piece of revenge upon a king : it ha*
i'erved to illultrale molt effectually, that ii
kings are gods in power, they are men in
judgment; and if mod of th'fe date idols
had not been vilited, like Ahab and Aga
memnon, with a lying spirit, it might pos
sibly have kept them from trel'palfing on
their own abilities, and afpiringto be ridi
cnlous.
But power intoxicates, as well as wine,
and the phrenzy it creates, seldom evaps
rates, but iu the deep of death.
Thus Alexander himfelf. though perhaps
(he molt magnanimous of men, i idiculouf
ly enamoured wi'h the charafler of Achil
les, set iip the poet's phantom as his moiiel
in all thing*. Hepheltion thits became his
Patrocltis, and was lodged in his bol'dm,
rather perhap . throfigh affectation, pardon
the )ingle, than affection. Thus, likewise.
he piqued himfelt on being fu Ift of foot;
as also oi his own ptrfonal valonr, and the
giving a fr:e loose to the moll violent ot
liispallion »• And lallly, fitch strength did
this vain glorious humour of his acquire
by longiiululgence, that, not fatisfied with
the red! glory he had acquired by his victo
ry's, lie took pains to biall the reputation
nf both his parents,in orderto be elteemed
the son of J.. piter.
In all 11jtie lights, aslikewife irt his
weeping for more worlds to conquer, a c
tvillas his ambition to excrl all rneji in all
things, even Alexander himfelf becomes as
?rtlineiTtly ridiculous, as, eiilulive of his
'•'< Hies, he iva3 eminently worthy of admi
ration.
The affixations and obfurditles of A!ex
i:ider were, however, ihofe.nf a hero ;
:he Achilles he mm it Iced was the Achilles
if Homer ; the god h J mm ; desirous to be
lei ived from, w as the ki"g anil father ot
:!:e e,t. Glory was the deity he wdrfhip
>ed ; and the contelt ot generWify between
lim and Porns bears wituef , that he de
ir-d to have a reputation founded on vir
:ue, as well as victory.
Eve i C.elar, the man of reiifon, P.s xrel!
is enterprise. could irot help being dazzied
vith the wintering figure of this human
['inEniK : this is evident by his bursting into
ears, in) recollecting that he himfelf was
carte Iciiou n to the u orld, at an age w hen
A/exan er was both the wonder and rtiaf
:er oi it. Csefar, however, did not fuft'er
lis -dßiiration to htirt Ins discretion ; and
f he tmnlaied his virtues, he carefully
ivi ided hisexrravagaficies.
Cnarjes XII. ot Sweden, like ui ft, ap.
jare illy cop ed tlie military part of Alex
mde< Vchai-after; in confeqoe'ttce of which.
.< ar bccatnc 1m element, and to (lifpole oi
cingd mis, not puffefs them, what he prin
ipaily aimed ai, as tlie fruit of his viclo
•ics : hue as Csfar (tudied only the cxcel
nii.'s of Alexander, Charles was ena
moured even with his faults; and as al
iefVctsin a fine original are if
I fervileCopy, so if, Alexander was rafli,
diaries was rafhuefs itlelf ; which be car
■ied to filch an extremity, that while in the
ield, scarce any thing less than a continual
"ericsot' miracles could havepreferved him
rom day to day. He is not, however, to
ie upbraided with Alexander's debauche
ies ; and if the Greek was continent once,
he Swede was so always. Alexander agiit)
"i und leifiire, in the inidft of a carh'p, to
;ultivate the arts and fcience',to beelegant,
o be magnificent, (let it be I emembei ed, I
Id not fay, to He prodigal or o(t-?ntatijtis)
whereas Charles -.ias so immersed in the
Irudgery of war, that he forget thednesof
lecertcy. and in hisfigure more resembled
ancient Pistol, ai (Irelied for the Uage.
n khafcefpearp, than a great king and
mighty conqueror. The Spartans, \tere
lever so spruce, as in the day of battle ;
lor can I fee any necefiity that a great hero
i.oufd be as great a flovetj. To finifh with
his royal .Suede : as Alexander had his
Hepheltion, Charles had his prime ot
VVirtenbeig : a circrmftance w hicli 1 men
: on only to fbew, that Peter the Czar had
uithorities of ail forts for calling hin-i, th< ■'
omeu hat in from, the Alexander of the
lorth. , E,.g. M„.g.
NEW-YOKK, Anguft 17.
To the honour, ble John Jay, Kfq. Chief-
Justice of t e United States, and the
honour: ble Fulns King, Ffq: a l-nembei
of the honourable the Senate cf the
United Slates'.
Hnnotjrrb'e Cent'rmen, .
THE very intereftj'ng information con
:aintd in your card publ'ihed in Monda;'.
Diary, and the very condeftending inannei
n which you ha\e deigned to make the
communication, demand the irn ft si bm f
ive acknowledgments of all your leilow
'fubjefts.' When the chief-jiiflife and a
senator of thtj United States (loop so far,
as to addref themlelves immediately to the
people, who that is not cailotis to the fen
iiinents of gratitude, does n<.t perceive
ai>d crpfefs the important obligation ? Re
reive then, dignified Sirs, the thanks due
.0 you for so obligingly importing ti\ us the
i try indecwrmft language used by Citizen
Genet; But for you. we fhonld vet have
aeen groping in the da: k, ai"d taiituing
[Total Numb. 190 ]
ourfclves with useless conje.stnres; and
yet fonie captious people among; us, take
exception at your card. They fay, that
utter spending so man* days, in' the worth
ing of it, tliey expected much fu'ler in
forntaticn respecting the minister's con
duit; they nlk in what manner this lan
guage was used, upon what occalion ?
Whether in writing, whether by word of
moti:h, whether they were addivfled di
rectly to the IVelident, \\ hether to his own
republic, whether to his oxvn amily, whe
ther to yourselves, (which appeared molt
probable, as you do not (peak from infor
ination) whether to your friend the secre
tary ox the treasury, or whether they were
dropped (ai foine fay) in a private table
converfatiort. '1 o silence these cavillers,
we tell them, you were riot obliged to de
clare the whole truth, and that'yon have
chfcldled quite as much as the vulgar ought
to know.
Others there is a want of candour
in yr r trying to palm the report on others;
it mult be cOiifeiiefl, there is a studied am
biguity in this particular; the card fays
report having reached the city, yott
« ere allied so and so.' It took me half art
hour to convince an obstinate ami Fedel'a
li!t, that this expression contained no direcl:
rlenial of your being the authors of it ; that
chep ra r eolor>y was futfii lently clearforthe
well born, ai d that men in exalted lhiti—
tins, never aimed at being comprehended
jy those of plebeian underltanding.
Another Jellow, (as bad an anti-federa
, as cither of the former) pretended
that you u ere afh.nned of raifiiig the re
port, became you wanted us to believe
that you h id been litem until applied to,
nn the fubjeft—elfe why fay 4 you wcra
Rlked, and answered lo and so'—This could
not in every instance have been true, fays
this carper, for the chief jullice, on the
morning Genet was expected, flopped arc
acquaintance of mine, and told mm the
»l.nle Itory, although he was alked no
quelHoris about it.—Why yn;i blockhead;
laid I, don't you obfei ve, that although
tile card is calculated to make an illiterate
perfofi believe they had not volunteered
this information, yet a man liberally and
genteelly educated, will ealily discover on
a third or fourth reading, that they had in
fowie instances graciously made the com
munication to feme per fa its who did not
trouble themselves to nfk any qtieltions a
bout It. it is well replied, laid this crea
ture, you have fatisfiecl me on this head,
lor I was buly, and had made Corfiderable
proprefs in obtaining certificates, tha 1 the
chief-jufiice, as ionn as it was in contem
plation to address Citizen Genet, became
as brify as a bee in circulating the story,
which with fonie weak persons had the e'e
dned effect.
fhis impertinent fellow was scarcely
:iifpatched, when another of file foule anti-
Federal stamp. ftrutied up and made hii
fancy remarks on your card. ' Methink%
r ays he, Jay and King, (ior I protest he
gave neither of you a title, which (hocked
my federal delicacy dot a iittlif) had better
mind the bulinefs they are paid for, than
to propagate such idle tales against the mi
nilter of our good all'ies.' This was pro.
iiouiued with a look so fierce and angry,
that I dared not open my lips in your fa
vour, for- fear of being huflled out of the
coffee- hotife.
1 he moment this furious jackanapes
talked away,another ruder fllll stepped up,
mil v. ith a temerity, aifumc'J only by anti
k deraliils, questioned even the ptirity of
your motives—'W hat end can it answer.*
id this ipipudent railer, ' at this critical
moment to provoke a war between France
and America, by treating their minifler
with open difrefpeft—Our papers teeni
with libeis against him—Not content villi
inonyuioiis fcurriiity, the officers of go
vernment conie forward,and by ambiguous
"id dark innuendoes endeavour to deprive
vin not only of public confidence, but o/
the common civilities of life—Had half as
milch been laid of the Englilh ambaflac'or,
the printers v ould have been profe'e iitfc.il
tor a libel, and we should have seen the
judge* as Unanimous against thetn
as they wei'e in (he cafe of poor fientield.
It Mr. Gtnct has acted improperly,- irt
God s name why don't the Prelident resent
it ? It the peop e are to judge him, why is
not his offence mare accurately definud '
Surely they are not to give a verdlit upofi
the loose jesuitical trfFiiiionyalready bctoi e
thuhi.' • Kir my < . i part, ' Oontiniicd
this brawler,' Ido not fee what the r;eo
pte have to d» with this bulinefs. VVnile
our government receives Mr. Genet a*
amball.i'jr, it is indecent in others not tpte civil to him. I tsv, excise oar great
officers of ft»;e wh< , except the Prelident,
hare tlie revolution, for shewing their con
tempt of him, but I hepe they \\i>l not be
infrared by the republican funs of Colum
bia who love liberty, and had rather fight
for it than fee France conquered.' Ihi
democrat then expatiated on liberty, re
publicanism, patriot! m, national gratitude
:.n<" good faith, and declaimed so loudly »•
jrtii.lit hn»i archy, ariltocracy, and slavery,
aat 1 am sure, grod Sirs, you would have
been as glad as myfelt to have escaped Iron:
his company without attempting a reply.
T e object of thi address is to fuppl.c >te
\ou to employ some person to attend dail)
at the cotfee-houfe to explain your card,
and to defend it againit the contumelious
mid anti-iederal criticisms levilled again)!
it.
1 have only to aflure you, noble Sirs,
that I am not at all m;.keu in my atiti fe
deral p. inciple:, nor in my detefkation of
The French revolution and liberty, which
so honourably diftinguiih our party,
1 have the honour, honourable and well
born Sirs, to be, with all thatfobniifTive rc -
ipeft which becometh an American fnbject,
and with all suitable arillocraiic devotion
and submission,
X our very obedient fsfrvant,
Jin jlr.il Gullican Fcderalijl.
LONDON, May 19.
A flagrant inilante of erueity and injtiftTce
toward the poor, is the practice of impi ef
fing. The labour of the pour man, confti
tntes the whole of his wealth, and his da
meftic cannexions aimoft- the whole of hh
happiness. But on a Hidden, under the
dubious authority of a p-efs warrant, he is
cut off fiom his peaceful habitation anci
<lomeitic foc ; e:y, and forcibly dragg -d or.
board the floating prison of a tender : he i
compelled to labour in the drcadtul service
of t inrdering his fello.v creatures at the
command of his superiors, and paid fu.h
scanty wages, not as he can earn or deserves.
jut as the niggardly fyllem of government
finance thinks fit to allow. His family
eanwhile, who look up to him for com
iort and fubfiftfnee, ignorant of his inislbr
xutie, are anxiouQy expeQing his wonted
return ; perhaps their home y repast for
the niftht depended 011 his earnings for the
day; but his ufnal hour of retH-n to his
Jamily is gone by; each pilling /ootftep,
each noise of distant fitfiilarity, is eagerly
lifte.ied to in vain; hope, still draws out
the lengttie ied evening till a sleepless ni*ht
of lamentation and despair fucteeds the
dreary melancholy hours of fucceflive dif
-appoirtment and fruitlefs expectation. —
The next or succeeding day briegs the
jnourrful tidiags of his delliny ; and leaves
the widowed wife (pei haps the pregnant
juother) to eke out a comfort iefs existence
under tlie accumulated preflnre of want,
,and labour, and sorrow, and disease.
Innumerable are the cases of this nature,
that mult of necessity attend the practice of
j-inpreffiilg for soldiers and mariners. But
The mifcries of the lower classes of society
are borne in torpid lilence, and patient re
signation ! The feeble voice of fuffering
noverty can seldom extend beyond the
humb.e limits of her own habitation ; still
. ?fs can it penetrate tlie joyous mansions
«>!' the great, or intrude 011 the pompous
occupations of the statesman ;—otherwife
It might truly fuggelt, that even if wars be
jiecelVary, this tyrannical fyflem of violence
and robbery is not so. It is the offspring
<>f ftate-parfimonv alone. Why not add a
fourth or a half to the common wages, to
induce volunteers? Why not double the
p,,y ? Why not ?—Becaufe the overgrown
fortunes of the rich landholders, the mon
opolizers of wades and commons, would
experience an almofl imperceptible dimi
nution. While, by the good old fafliion of
dragging away the poor by means of a prefs
ngTno taxes are laid upon the wealthy ;
and a due portion of the fwinifli multitude,
the scum of the earth, are periodically
swept away as food for powder.
Such are some among the numerous
hardlhips of which the Britifhpoor have
too much reason to comp all Indigence,
one would think, is of itlelf a fufiicient evil
to an inhabitant of society. without being
lield out as a repro ,ch, or converted into a
crime. Why then should slavery be added
to poverty, and the rights man be in
volved in the misfortunes of the citizen ?
A citizen indeed is an improper appcllaiion;
the poor man is not a citizen : for being
denied, even by the spirit of the conititu
tion, the privilege of representation, he is
fubjeft.to those who make, and the power
of those who execute the laws ; and he i?
at bed but an inhabitant of his native land,
for the benefit of his tidier neighbour.
BERMUDA, July 27.
This port is open lor the importation of
all kinds of provisions, naval and militaiy
fVores, in foreign bottoms, uutillthe ift of
January next.
The Aflembly is prorogued to Monday
the 7th of October.
A fleet of 150 hoi.'.jward bound Jamaica
nien, under convoy of four frigates, &c.
-were spoke with 4 daysfince, a few leagues
to the welKvard of Bermuda, by a vellel
from New-York.
Yesterday arrived the Fox privateer
from a cruize-; Die re-captured c.i Thurs
day the brig Carriere,Archibald M'Donald
late mailer, of Glufgow, bound to St.
Vincents ; the brig was captured by the
l-'Ajax French privateer, of i 6 guns and
260 men, of Bourdeaux, off the Western
Ifits, about 3 weeks since ; the was order
d toDdl'.imore, to get American papers,
oad with flour, and f iil immediately for
Frame ; the privateer took out of the brig
all the merchandize, confiding of about 55
pales ar.d package.-! ; (lie is a vi ■ 7 fall fai1.12,,
.12,, line brig, and worth about 3COOI. fterl.
I he captain of the French privateer be
'taved with great civility to the crew ot the
irig L; rriere, and the crew of the Fox
:reated the French crew taken prl'fouer.
aith equal liumanity and attention, by
jiving up all private property. By the
tbove French prifoneis, we learn, that
-.here are 4 (lout privateers, of 28 to 44
runs each, cruising off the Western I Hands,
ivhich fetid all their prizes for America.
The crew of the F'x go into the priva
te!" fliip EXPERIMENT, which is to b;
aunched on Thursday next andwhich is
■xpe£ted to out-fed ary thing evt r built.
August 3.
By the sloop Perfcverance, Williams, ar
'iv (.d.yeflrrday in 14 days from Barb ~-loes.
ive learn, that the packet brought order"
10 (lop admiral Gardner lrorn failing tS
Halifax, w here he was bound during the
hurricane months; and that 30:0 more
troops were expe&rd daily at Barbadoes,
:he Bi itilh being determined to reduce ali
the French poll' ffions in the Wed 1 wlies. —
That three French (hips of the line were
arrived at Martinique.—That t< 11 fail ol
the line, with io.oco troops on board, art
arrived at the Havannah.—And tar i
homeward-bound fleet from St. JCitt .
were to fail the firll of Anguft.
The Hornet privateer h is brought in the
brig Phoebe, bourd to Philadelphia, Iron
Lhe Cape, with coffee, v chest of dollars
two chells of plate, 36 negroes, a id dry
goods, belonging to the French. The brij
left the Cape the-isth July ; the negi oe
li act then full poffellion of that [lace; the
brig lay juit out of reach of the guns, I*;
:lays, to endeavour to procure water, witl
many other vessels. She htd 60 white pas
fingers 011 board.
BOSTON, August 15.
Extract of a Utter from Philadelphia, da
ted July 24, 1793.
" A year and the me. it i and impor
ir.ee of tie French revolution, were con
inel in their effects to but few speculative
oliticianseven in this coi ntry.But n pre
"ent, to the infinite mortification of con
ealed enemie to the free principles 011
a hich it is eltablidied, thousands who were
he 1 scarcely affected by its animating in
iuence, are now w arm d ard inv goratee
n the cause of " Liberty and Equal ty," tc
i degree scarcely b: 'oiv the <>••::' ine ant
"alutary Ihindard ot 17- j—i lines o!
jartition are dra\ ing . . , anj t is with
jle .sure, 1 can assure yi.u, that triefr cir
uraKription is every d.iy more and more
limited. It is very vilible here I know
lothow it is in Boston) that within them
ire to be found, every ancient tc
he free principles which illuminated the
jaws) of our revolution- Among this de
rcriptionyou find, conspicuous and reveal
eevery old tory, to a n an, (to give the
devil his due, they are wonderfully cen
i(lent) .nd every halfway,timid, helitacinj
whig of the eleventh hour, joined and in
:oi'po'rated v iih the train band of fpecula
:oi>, {wit! 1 some exceptions) and the nier
:hants in the British trade, in about the
"ame proportion. Let me know how ii
is in Boflon. Do you not lee there the
ante leaven at work, openly or secret y
as will belt suit their designs ? Under the
plausible exterior of national independence
if foreign connections, do you not perceive
he Englifli influence in full operation, tc
i-ilify the envy Europe n power, that
from principle, interell and inclination, car
wish well to American liberty.—lf this
lower is fubvertetl, wi'h what other na
:ion can we form a union ? Would the.
Spaniards afli t- usin a future coined with
:he Britifli ? OrcouU they, if they wo:,Id?
Would they with to fee this-country rife
:othe height, and importance of which it
s susceptible, with the green eyed jealon
y which even now diflorts every object in
lature orfociety ?—Would the Dutch ? —
Aias! the patriots with whom we nego
:iated our provisional treaty, in the late
ivar, or rather., who negociated for us, are
;ither dead, or in exile. Some of them,
ike Van Berkel or Capellan, obli
ged to abfeond by the power or the Orange
fa&ion. —Some others like DESEtivtLLE,
obfeure and unfortunate ill America. Can
we expect allillance from the Ruffians, the
Prussians or Auflri.ms ? They have no
■ nartne for our affiftanee ; and the -Swede:
and Danes are too remote-In fatl, my
good friend, it is the British nation to
which we mull revert, according to tin
fyftetn of the(egentlemen—and then tteii
iVhemes will be matured, under the folier
ing, maternal care of tbisamiable go\ern
ment ? our President, Jike that of the
Dutch,may be rendered hereditary;our Se
nate independent—car Repfeieutativc
corrupt and venal, imir.erfed in the vor-
texo f intrigue and (peculation—But all
ill's is jtbfu.d— y< u'.i lay ; —lio\r oufurd :
Has it rot happened before? Is it n"t. pre
c felj.the cafe in Holland ? Ai e the'Dn'ch.
at tlii4 moment,iny more Man the fatollites
of the Britilh ? Even in this combination
.•gainfl Fiance, have tliey not been sorted
into the wnr contrary to their incli iati<• n
or intere'l, by the F>rit"• fli ? Did they not
with to nego, Kite the affair of the Scheldt ?
And were they per milted to do it by the
Cabinet of St James" —Ail these truths
are evident and indisputable—But ftiil irri
tate, lr. ult, perplex and abuse the French,
till we are drawn into a war with them,
ind the end will be obtained. God forbid
T should be uncharitable; bLt I firmly
believe this is the view of sum
mean nothing —for they neverliada mean
ing— Still my good fir, the found part of
the Americans will not be corri:p ed b)
the rotten and detective—You must b \i
/ilant & decided however—REMEMBER
the freed 111 of North America can be 101 l
only in France, and the dissolution of t
Gal'ic republic. will renew the convulltve
struggle for our rights.
" But the French, under tliere-eftab
lifhed orde: of despotism, would fiili i t
our friend ." This hypofhefis is lunacy hi
the extreme —What I After feeing th.
[illlars of li.on rvhy shaken. and even pr -
ftrate, eweuld a f utureiiionarcli o: Franct
tamper with the very contagion which h. c!
i nte befre effeficd the deflruflion of the
ancient efhblifhmej'ti n his own kingdom?
You might as well pei fuade me, that ;
Leo or a Clement, or any other infalli
ble fuceefi'or of the papa! power, woulc
have joined in a crusade of Proteil ants
I con after the reformation of I utH ER, tc
limit the authority of a Catholic potentate.
More likely—for that they began a new ex
pedition, to extinguilii the only remains <>l
real liberty in the w*rld, in this country ;
for tliey have felt from this source, v»l a!
they ncvcV even imagined to be pofEbie.
w hen the court of Versailles firft under
took to sustain the tottering cause of Ame
rican Liberty,"
"Notw ithftar.ding the mean & contemp
tible inlinuations in yefterriay's Cent'.,el,
nfpefting the deception of CitizenGENET
at Ndu' V ih. \\ e doibt not, and \\c think
we can be jnfllfied in aflerting, that lboui<
tint-genllenian pay a vitit to this metro
polis, he would be received by eve
iy real republican, with that friecd
ihip and cordiality which is due to the mi
nifler of a great and magnanimous ally.
Thefevera) paragr. phs which conflant
ly appear in the Ctntinel, apparently lin
der the Britilhinfluei. e. and evidently cal
culated to leflen the afivftion of the friend
of Liberty, to the cause of France, are a;
base and infamous, as the authors of then
tan be despicable ar.d wreti hed—the) art
treated by every independent citizen wit)
the contempt they merit.
One would in fact suppose, by reading
the Cet.tihei, that the Editor of that papet
was employed by Great Britain, or fomi
other of the con bined powers, to prof a
gate stories unfavoural le to France ■, a
every paper teems u ith th molt bitter ii -
vecfives, either againll tht ra ion at large,
or against their iniiiifter noV in this.coiiK
try."
Er.traEls from late French papers.
i. " The English are now at wai v\ it>
the French, but the time ; s not ren on
w):en that nation shall do itfelf ample jus
tice upon its corrupt miniflers, and tl'eii
fcaffcltls will fooil fmcVe with the t'» o ol
the L.uds and StrtiTords of the pi\ -in
riav, who will fuffer the docm of commn
robbers At present we h<-ue in a mannei
the wo; Id combined again!! us; we have
no: a single ally ; or to (peak more ti irly
the/ie pie ps every country are our ailus
but the g;:-j rr mtrh are our enemies. Tht
people however can render us no efl'entu
service of themselves, till unlettered frou
their chains, and th s it mult be our bu
linefs to effect.
2- "The viflories of onr armies, an:
the general good .:fpe£t of our affairs, h :vt
been the cause of much exultation among
the inhabitants of the United States : thi rc
are ai New-York a -d Philadt Iphia a num
ber of ariltocrats and royalilts, who gratt
their teeth at the probability of our flic
cess, and utter cxrcrati"ii for the deal! of
Louis ; i. ,t in general the downfall of the
tyrant and tyranny is highly approved of.
Our successes against the leagre of despots,
ai e f(> much the more acceptable to Ame
ricans, as they consider themselves a-our
elder brother- in the great work of Liber
ty. From what we hear, however, it is
(till in our power to give th m fcveral les
son on this subject. For exrn pie, the
ariflo ratic alphabet of the F.nglifl. is {till
too prevalent among the Americans. A
number of words are Hill pronounced a
mong them that cannot but wound the ear:
<iF every good republican, yeni honour,
iworjhipftl, excellency, rever. R.i, , &c.
It is pity that having thrown slide the
pompous trappings ot their old goi eminent,
they Ihculd (fill retain trifling decorations
which can only set easy on the shoulders ot
puppies, and neglect the honorable title ol
Citizen. 7he phrase Citizen lies made,
we are told, many Americans (mile ; wife
men, I ow«. ver, it has set a thinking. We
find nothing that is a better criterion of
tlie general fentimer.ts t>f the American
war. ejieir te-.ifls pi;bl;ll,tii in the iiewfp;-
pers. Frc m theft it is wonderful to learn;.
rhat they ('ill befitate to pronornee La
Fayette of ire: foil agamft the na
t von!
3. " Andreas Chenier has given rb -1-
tio 1 a ftibliuie, animated tragedy, enti"'
FeneloM. This piece, io the repref
tionjh is L eei' attended with the con:; •
fuecefs. It abounds with the purcil i
mi ft amiable morality; and the author of
Telemaehiit there appears, as in his bcok,
t!< fame virtuous character, ihe fviei dof
mnßkind, and tlie friend ot liberty. A vr.!l
number of particular verses in this woik
have' met with the most unbounded ap
plauds, and are worthy 10 be engraved lip
on man's memory. Anions; thtle
maybe reckoned tlie following—Die: jit
ia \ibtYte, Chommi afait ?ejc a-vr.gs. Ct d
made liberty j mancniy is the autUor of
slavery !
P H 1 L A D E 1 F H 1 A.
Saiuriay, Anguft 24.
Letters from Paris mention, that several
En..liil.nieti refid.ng re have lately been
denounced to the Committee of Safety,,
or having aecn noi e tree in their conduit
ind convt rfiition against the pies nt Older
f things than was prudent. Antongft the
umber is a captain Grimftone, of York—
hire, formerly of the Britilh Guards, and
low an half-pay 1 ffi< er, who is in confine
nent. 'He would have been guillotined
ometime ago (fay our accounts) had not
fiom.as Paine. (who was the peafon he
hietly reproacht d) in theme ft liberal man
icr exerted hiiv.felf to fire has 111 e. *
Extract of a Utter from Ghe/ltr county t
A, gvjl I 7;
" 3 do by no ho d your project te>
le eii ler weak or chinieiic lof inut dn
dug the French language into general life
n this country, and thereby fuperftding the
t.nglifli. The puipofe? to be -answered by
tK'h a change are gi eat ai d deli able ; par
i< ularlv, it would put 11s in a fpir way of
id-ding obi selves of numberless prejudices
ow, and for. a long time past, In bibed
Vom the literal y proeluftions ef a natio: a
s hich in fume sos t go-, -i n tie tin'dti Mai.»
ngs of Americans, and lead many vt thenc
0 suppose, that nothingexcelknt evt r did
r (an exist out of England, and that the
i.-ft way oi rendering ourselves acceptable
:o God, is ttj murder and dt flroy our fel
ow men. No tme can be preferable t®
he present for ('• tting about this great
ork, the country being in a manner full
French people, the tar greater part of
a h/ m mean to fettle in the Hates, and be
.ome American citizens, so that in every
tillage, and aln oft on every farm, the
nbabitants will have an opportunity of
leconiing praoti'cally ; eqtiai.tteei with this
alegnnt language. Let no one e-efpair at
:l facilities in theii si ft attempts : Doctor
1 r.inklin learned te> speak the French flu
ently a.'ter he ; .ad j ailed his seventieth
iear. lam 11Id the most of our iederal
xeuu.ve speak it; by their ft tting. the;
xample. and allowing no other to be used
•n their families, the p-.-oj !e at lar; e would
con c< me nto the general life of it, and
.lie next age would fee the French te>ngue
:he vernacular idion of this country.'?
Extralt of a left / •< Capt. Brooke, of
the lihoji.er Harriot, to Capt S.'.-cun
(if Alexandria) her ow/ni —St. Kittys
J:,ly 20.
" T here is all the reason in the w oriel
:o complain of the tre: :i;uut 1. Ameri
cans have received in this ] 1 ice from the
p. ople of the "Hand ; and I hope our
'nerds will tal eit into confideraiian.fo sm
10 give us some fatisfaCaon for fuck treat-,
inentv
l> There are about thirty American ves
sels here fall of tnem in tl e.n ai't of ad
-111 ira 11y}; and it ii nieii h, feared that many
«f them will fnffer on account of the ap
proaching hurricane m< :i:hs. Ti;e courc
ias been employed all this v, eeLin trying
ihree but no determination has
vet take, olace. It Ihey do not get thro*
the bufmefs falter than they have done,
some ofeiur countrymen v, 1!] lie t get away
before next spring, Five or C.x si reerican
liiips and bi igs hope to fail in about ten
days; but what they will to for hands I
know not. 1 heir Jia:it!s have bi en induceel
1 o leave them by the owners ef tl.e priva
tiers, although American citizens, and
every affiltance given the hand- th<v could
with for to recover th ir \v; ges.by law.
Some mailers have been fer.t to gaol, on
refnfirg to pay such demands : but. tit last,
were permitted to land fou.e p it of their
cargoes, and fell them at veßd'ie, in order
to raile the money for those fellows, and
pay their gaol fees, as fhey had no money
when brought into this place. Sueh 'ifage 3
I ho; e, will remain 111 the bre.aU. of every
true American.
" \V hen I was firft brought iwo this
place, they took nee n 11;o. c, a■ 1 .'er to
undergo an examination; but the court
not being prepared. I was side-red tc give
no o' e anj fatirtaftion wd:o might villi to
speak to me cunetrnii g the \ lie! i.d car
jo; and was moreover pieventrtl from
Speaking to any Au.etUim until 11 y trialJhould be over. This I conliclered as a'
o'ieva.i'ce ; butnuub-rs hatfc
treated in a more difreOeftfnl manner
t!;a 1 ijiyl'-'W. .Some American mailers hare
been detained in lhe harbour four' or live
day* on board the privateers, and not al
lowed :o put'their loot on (hore, bee ulle
the court was not re idy to give tliem a
hearing. This is confide red by those who
are ger.tleinen £God know ! but fewrhc-y
arc] to be a very unlawful proceeding.
Besides this, all the American veflels bro't
here, whether they have French property
on board or not, areobliged to enterclaim
for their vc fills and cargoes, and have a
trial for them in the court of admiralty
before they are set at liberty, and have no
satis iction made tliem for the detention.
I hive been in this place near eight weeks.
" I fcippofe yon have heard of the Ante
rii n vciub: being brought in here with the
V'liin ibw'i. This hasbeen done repeat
edly, and 1 have seen it leveral times, with
The i.Killer on board, and they dared no:
a en pt to reverie the colours for fear ut
being ill-treated. 1 make no doubt our
countrymen u ill take such inP.iltsinto con
sideration, and know the reason of them.
ixtrad from the J?urv.nl and L"g B"ok oj
t';e J Jiuontt E.iza, Capt. Fan
ning.
" On the morning of the (7th of July,
vn failed from Cape-Frai 5. >is in rdmpaii)
-■ vit' 1 the brig Mary, belonging to Pliila
delphia. At 10 P. M. we were fired it ant!
brotigbt to by an aimed sloop, and did no
perceive that lhe Ihewed any colours—het
boat boarded us with a number of armec
nen and took pofllflion of our vefl'el, the)
told us the privateer was from Jamaica
commanded bv David Harris, called the
Joseph and Mary, and mounted 8 guns.
Oil the fallowing day their boat came or
board again, they broke open our hatche
ard fore scuttle, and took out a conlider-
part of our cargo, u hicli were hides.
Kot finding any thing to render our
suspicious of being French property, :h?y
int rhp hides down again and clo ed our
hatches,fome oftheinhowever wc e dan a
ged in consequence of the ffea that v as th 1
running. Hiving 18 French pafl'engers or
board, they broke open tlieir trunks and
took all the money, plate and jewels they
could there find. The capt .in of the pri
vateer feeing a fail, gave chact to her, and
ordered us to follow after him, he foor
came up with and took her : she proved tc
be the vefTel we had failed in company witl
from the Cape, and had ijo French pas
senger on board. On the 20:h, they a'-
choiedusboth at that wild and uninha
bited place called Great H-'neaga. Th j
proceeded to search our vefl' l again, re
ex'. nined the trun'cs, not excepting the
captain's, tore up the after cabbin floor and
botiom of the lower births Having now
taken all the money, p'ate afid jewels the;
could find, besides live ne*gro girls and fom
small articles, and hiving drank moll "t
the pafT-ngers wine, they gave us a dif
cliarge, with orders to depart immedi
ately. We bad 110 sooner got underway,
t'lan a person bythe name o f A inias Mac
Dougal, came on board ; he commanded
a fohooner privateer from New-Provi
<le;ice, called the Brothers, mounting ic
guns. He roared like a madman, and too:
poffelfion of the vcflel : upon beina a Iked
by what authority he did it, he answered
in the following manner : ' I do not choose
to fliew every one my authority, when
your vefTel is along fide of my guns I ma>
doit.' The captain then Ihewed him the
discharge he had received from the othei
privateer, he said he did not care a damn
for it, he had often got good picking- out
of others leavings, tlren ordered his boat
off for twenty men with loaded guns and
cutlafl'es, part of which soon after came
armed as ordered. We were now taken
close under our captttrer's guns, and seve
ral other privateers whicn appeared to be
in concert.
" On the succeeding day, our hatches
were once more broke open, and our car
go taken out to the dunnage. Our water
calks were scuttled, and about 500 dollars
tal'en out of them, which our French
pafl'engers had there secreted. We were
now once more released. Our paflengers
101 l none of their cloaths, exc. pt a few
handkerchiefs ; Capt. F-anning loft a hat,
■which one of our people saw oil the head
of the prize-mailer of the Joseph and Ma
ry, when 011 board of her. which he in the
, presence of the captain allied for, but they
refufed to return it. In the evening of the
day we failed from Heneaga we were
spoke with by the said Ananias M,Dougal,
who informed us, that he in company with
live other privateers had taken the Ame
rican (hip called the Harmony, belonging
to Baltimore, and on thefncceding day we
saw them anchor her ander Atkins Key."
We fearri from a Norfolk paper, that a
16 gun (hip of war had arrived-at St. Kitts
in 26 days fro.n Liverpool, with the intel
ligence that peace was eflabliflied between
France and England. What gives feme
degree of probability to this news, is, the
total inability, as well as inactivity of
Holland, in prosecuting the war ag inll
J'rance; the Spaniards near ly a -inactive;
England left to support nearly the whole
expence of the league, and the combined
powers discouraged, their fubjefts on the
point of revolt, and their united force not
able to drive even Outline out of Germany.
Intelligence is received from England,
through the übove channel, that Mr. Fox
had resigned his- feat in parliament, on
which occalian the friends of liberty h tl
set a subscription on foot for him, and al
ready raised 40,01101. A number of addi
tion.d failures hail taken place in London,
B: litol, &c. as also in Scotland, and the
mercant: e part of the kingdom were in
[lie nrcaielt conlternation. 111 Ireland
publn affairs were in a more deplorable
rtiKtion than ever; the price of cloth and
varr reduced alinolt to nothing, and pro
v'Coni of every kind higher than ever be
i ire known in that island.
Kxtruit sis a letter from a gentleman in
Ntwlrk to his friend in this city, dated
Augujt 18, 1793.
" This lo bi sure is an age of wonders —
It is wo.idei;ul that th 1 American revolt)
1 i»n was effected w.th l'o little bloodshed,
with inch small refoui ces, with so little
expente, tnd in so ati ne. Wheii
we contemplate the affiitance which France
rendered us,. it may abate a little of this
wonder: lor it will hardly b. fnppoftd,
that liygly we (hould have been a match
.or Great-Britain. I:.is wonderful that the
nil me nfe iVrv.ce> w.iiciw? received from
France (hould so loon be effaced from the
remembrance of many pretended patriot
among 11s—But this wonder may fuffer
a dimi lutioti a I;e 11 we co (idertiiat F . nice
become a Rep blic, and hat the elta
blilhirtent o' her republican government
m y be tne deftrniliou of aristocracy and
inequality throughout the European world,
and may exiend its influence ac ofs the Ar
lintic. It is wonderful that thole who wei"'e
the molt diftinguiihed for maintaining
the fo»ereignty of the Hates Ihould be the
lirlt for a confolidai ed government} when
10 hint that a conformation Vas in con
tehip ation was branded with (he cha rafter
r>t antifederalifm—lt is wonder!u. that
those men who were the molt vehement
ieclaimers for liberty, again It the en
;roachments of Great Br tain, Ihould be
the firlt to aim at inequality now we have
aecouie 111 independent nation, and they
lave become pou erful among us, and that
hey lhoidcl aim at aggrandizing themselves
it the expellee of the general happiuefs
jfA nerica. It is wonderful that there
.hould be a difference of sentiment between
he people ofi free country and their ma
,iflrates, a id that the infiltrates ihould
:hi.ik themselves a superior order of be
ngs to those who created them—The na
ural order of things would lead to an opi
lion that the people ought to be fupremp,
hat their voice ought to govern, and that
A'h 'never there was an opportunity of con
ulting that voice, nothing ought to inter
jofe—We might naturally imagine that
here ought to be no jecrets in a free go
'erninent ; that whatever interelled the
jeople oliiht to be made known to them ;
hit as :hey w ere the source of authority,
hat as they mult feel the good or ill effects
ifthe management of their tnagiilratej,
hey ought to be informed of the motives
vhi 1 : produced their actions. It i> won
lerful that attempts should be made to
.alumniate the minifler ol Fra"ce, in order
o d fgrace the nation of which he is the
■eprei'entative, & that such attempts fhouM
ie made by those who ought rather to con
iliate than endeavor to produce a mif
inderftaiiding between France and the
United States; but, perhaps, this won-
Jer may be weakened when we conli-
Her, that a mod abandoned traitor to
'lis country, a perfidious fugitive, (hould bj
:ar fled by the officers of a free govern
ment : Treason againll liberty may be
well supposed where a T—receives attenti
ciuj&a cor.fpiracy againftou ■ epublican al
lies may be presumed when he has familiar
access to the influential characters of our
Lountry : Our political horizon appears to
be fireu ed with wonders : Who was more
loud in favour of the rights of man than
Judge W—, and yet he is the fir ft to at
tack those rights in their strong hold
n the trial by jury. The man who w:ll
"iy to the jury. This is the 1 >'v (giving Ins
jpinion) '■'and you must decide acctrding to
aims a dagger at the vitals of liberty,
tnd this blow was aimed 011 the trial of
Gidton Kenfield.
—Among many other wonders we Aay
rcckon a departure of some in high (tatior
from republican finipiicity and ease, and
their afl'uming a ffately Itile of fuperiorit)
over the people—What are levees, feciu
lion from the people, the diltinftions o!
t b!e, distance and reserve, the fplendoi
which surrounds them—what are they but
the traits of monarchy ? Ought the fer
e-ants of the people in any instance to affnmt
a lfate above them ? Surely not, for if the;.
Ho, they are more the men ol the people
but ailing only for themfelvcs. It is a cir
cumllance of re, ret that the charafte:!
whose fame and whole glory could receive
no addition, (ho ild, by their conduct. have
occasioned suspicions that their republican
ism was not of the best kind, and by means
of a change in their deportment Ihould have
alienated the affections 1 f many worthy ci
tizens. It may be said, that there is nothing
wonderful in these things, that they are ne
celiary results from the circumllances of
our country ; but altho' there may be no
thing wonderful in them to those who are
hackaeyed in the de.eits of men, to »n
honest and ingstmous mind they conv e
the idea of wonder.
" You have, no doubt, been intormed ol
the 11 lealinefs in this city occasioned by -I t
rtjj'o tion that Mr. Genet had said Ik
would appeal to the people." Amo'-ig the
foremoft cf tlurfe who are indulging them
selves in the abtife of the mini!reis Wil
liam Willcock , the very man who addres
sed him alone from this eity, and wlie, ti
(how his co'Jejuenct aild his zeal, wire
drew his address into a breathiefs length
Such abfurdi 1 s are nothing for him, and a
he is of little imporcance in the scale o
things, he has attracted little attention
and f. otn the minilter, nothing more thai
companion lor his weakness. Round as
fertious are made refpe&ing Mr. Genet
and I have authority to aflert as round!;
that the reports of him are false am
MA Li Ctcus, raijed to i jure the caije oj
France, by men who. dread the triumph ij
republica'ujm."
Fredericlfown, A ;g. B.—Juft as this pa
per w a> going toprefs, a gentleman atiivee J
in town from the westward, who informs,
that genera! Wayne had left Fort Jefterfon,
and that general Scott had joined him witl
-2000 nii'itia from K ntncky, and intended
to march direilly into the Indian towns.
Charlejton, Aug. 6.—On Saturday even
ing I all arrived hi re the snow H. pe, captair
Weft, in 63 u iys from Philadelphia, biu lafl
from the Havanna, where (lie v\ as not fuf
fered to enier : flie put in here in a leaky
condition. On the 27th of July, being the
day before (he left the Hav. nna, the floo|
R mger, captain Barrett, of Philadelphia,
arrived there, and was also denied admit
tance into thai port.
Tlie Bolton, is an old fliip of 32 guns :
and failed from Jamaica, by order of the
iiritilh naval commander there, in quest o)
tbe Ambitjcade: She came to off the en
trance ol Halifax harbour, and sent in loi
a pilot; but did not anchor, or take 01
board any itie-n there. Capt. Courtne;
was killed by a fplmter from the quarter
rail, the ball which made it. killing an c f
ficer of marines. [Softon l J aper.'
" Every faliliood that malice could in
vent, every pitiful charge that invention
could conjure up (fays a correspondent]
has been circulated by a deligning faelioi
in several mercantile towns, to injure tilt
mil) Iter of Franpe in the estimation of the
people of this country. Si'ch miferablc
attempts may have a momentary eft'eft to
his prejudice, but in the end tile people
(who always judge right) will fee through
and despise the jinny efforts of a herd ol
unp'incipUd Jlandcrers, who have been
enemies to the French revolution from the
beginning, and at present find no better
way of gratifying their enmity than b> fpit
ti ig tl»en- venom at the reprefei.tative ol
ttie f IVuch nation'. '>
[5y Requcjl.~]
DIED, on Friday the 1911 of July, ai
his fc..tin Mi-nolupon,Monmoi:th Is.
JOHN ANDI.RSON, Efq aged 91 —For t
number of years, pi eceding his death, hi
liuiation was uncom3i!oiily helpless ; hi;
body wa reduced almost to a Ikeieton, anc
his mind correfpondently impaired ; and ii
may be emphatically said, he had reacl.ee
[he aj,e of fefonu childhood and mere ob
livion—he had a 1 ery imperfefl and faini
recolleftion.evea ofhis nearest neighbours,
when informed of their names. The par
tition which separates this from the nexi
Hate of exigence was perhaps more {len
der in him than ever existed, for an equal
'pace of time, in any of the human race:
but the barrier was at length broken d >wn
and he jotirn -yed for that land from"whof(
bourne, 110 traveller re turns".
Queries to MeJJrs. Jay and King, in confe
quince of their declaration, refpeSing Mr,
Genet. (See National Gazette, No. 188 j
Candid answers 10 the following quef
lioiib are abfi.iutely tKceffary, to enable the
public to form an adequate judgment re
jecting Citizen Genet's, conduct. Had you
jeen explicit when you dragged the minif
er before that awful tribunal, much trou
b e and uncertainty would have been avoid
rd. I neve'r saw the propriety of your ap
pealing to the people in a matter cognizablc
:>uly by our worthy Prelident, in whose
lands Ameiica cheerfully and v.ith con
fidence reposes the executive duties of go
irernment —He knows how aid when tc
rcfent an insult offered to him, and w lie 1
to call on the aid of his fellow citizens
whose ardent affetlion for him is fueh, thai
at a word or hint from that quarter, tliej
v ould in a moment rally round his {land
ard. But as the peopie have not the fame
reason to place such implicit confideni e ir
you, especially when you appear before
them in to exceptionable a manner, the)
mean to suspend their opinion until Mr.
Genet's offence is more accurately defined,
and better authenticated. The lubfequen!
interrogatories tend to a dilclofure of the
whole truth, which the people, no less than
Mr. Genet, have a right toexaft from you.
Having volunteered your testimony, lame
as ;t is, in support of the libellous publica
tions againlt the minilter of France, What
claim will you have to the charafler of
candid men, if you prove.' tmw:iling wit
nefles upon your cross examination ?
First—Who informed you that Mr. Ge-
net (aid, He would appeal to the people
from certain decjfion* of til® Prelident ?
And what w ere the decilions from which
he threatened to appeal ?
Secondly—When did y®u firlt receive
this information ?
Thirdly—Have yon ever converted with
the Prelident on thisfubjefl ? Wh.it in or
vnation d:d you receive irom him ? Relate
t?:e whole that pilled, without any mental
reservation whatever.
Fourthly—Did the President desire you
to make puilic the information lie give
you. or was his communication confiden
tial ?
Fifthly—Upon what occasion, and to
whom did Mr. Genet make the threat ?
Was it to the Prelident—to the Secretary
of State—to the Governor of Pennsylvania
—to the Governor's Secretary, or to an/
other person ? How was it made, in wri
ting or byword of mouth ? in public or pri
vate? as ininilter or a private gentleman ?
deliberately and coolly, or in a palHon : or
in any other way ? Reserve nothinp, but
declare the whole truth, and nothing but
the truth.
Sixthly—When did you firfl fp'eadthe
report in this city ? Did von fay any tning
about the matter until we talked of ad
drefling Citizen Genet ?
Seventhly—Was it from public or private
motives that you circulated <he re port ?
Was it to prevent Citizen Genet f.om be
ia j; addrelkd, a-d to please Mr. Hammond?
Or was it really bccaule you thought it
your duty to run ahbut and ttll the Itory ? v
Eighthly—Do you wilh well or ill to the
French revolution ? Do you willi to fee
America at war with France? Do yon be
lieve abuling her ininiller, and treating
him with difrefpefl. will have a tendency
to alienate the atfeftions of the French, and
break the alliance between us ?
Ninthly—Have either of you vifitec! Ci
tizen Genet (nice his arrival in this city ?
Have you diffuadtd others from viliting
him ? Does your hatred and incivilip to
w. rds him proceed from your haired and
detellation ol liberty and the Ficiich ? or'
si oi-n any other and what cause ? Deciaic
firmly your motives for abufi g this niinif
ter, and your attempts to make other peo
ple do the fame.
Tenthly—Are you authors of any of the!
libels which your publication is intended to
lupport ? Relate which you have written,
a id particularly v\ hether the pieces, finned
W. Willcocks, on this fubjeit, are oi your
sompolition ? [JV. York Journal^
On a late memorable Naval Engage
ment.
[Concludedfrom No. 188.J
THEN to it they went, with a bloody
intent
The fate of the day to decide.
By the virtitestf powdci—(noargumeßt
louder
Was e'er to a fnbjeft apply'd)
A Gaul with a Briton in battle contends.
Let them rtaiid to their guns, and we'll
fee hew it endsi
As the Frenchman (hot past, Boston gave
him a blalt,
Glass bottles, cale knives, and old nails,
A (core of r<v"id (hot, and the devil
knows what,
To cripple his marts and his fails—
Madam Boflon fuppos'd it the faefl of her
play,
To prevent him frfcin chacing—if (he ran
away.
The Frenchman mofl cool, not a hot
he ided fool,
Return'd the broad-fide in a trice,
So keen was his he brought down
their cro'jick,
And gave the 111 some rigging to splice,
Some holes for to plug, where the bull
dogs had gone,
Some splinters to draw—and some heads
to put on.
Th. ee glafles and morp, their cannons
did roar.
Shot flying in horrible squads ;
'Midst volumes of smoke the Republican
spoke,
And frighten'd the Anglican gods—
Their frigate so they no longer
defend her.
And Courtney (hot down, they bawl'tf
out for furreuder.
O damn their French thunder, said cap
tain O'Biunricr,
I think with the devil he deals,
But since we diflikc to furrehderor strike,
Let us try the fuccef of our heels ;
We may save the king's frigate by run
n;ng awaj— »
The Frenchman will have us—all hands
—if We (lay.
So, fqtiaring their yards—on all captain
Bompards
A volley of curses they (bed ;
Having got their discharge, they bore
away large,
While the Frenchman purfu'das they fltds
But vain was his haste, and vain was his
fpei d.
He ended the fray in a chace.
The Gaul had the best of the fight, 'ti|
agreed,
The Briton—the best of the race.De/cription of the BOHON UPAS, or
Poison Tree, in the IJl >nd of Java, in
the jt.ajl Indies, By a Gentleman xaho
resided many years in th it place.
DESCRIPTION, <bc.
INJava'sifle, midst circling mountains
plac'd
The Bohon Upas casts his deadly (hade ;
With poifiHlous Iteanis, this tyrant oi the
watte'
Tai:it3 the warm air and bids all nature
fade.
Each beast of prey. each bird of loftieft
flight,
m,!ii himfelf the deadly vapours seize,
Bind the clos'd eyelid in eternal night,
Quench the blue vein, or bid its current
freeze.
THIS tree grows in the Dutch island
of Java, in the Eait Indies, and
renders a vast extent of country round it,
noxious and sickly by its vapours. The
following account of this extraordinary
tree, which is found in no other part of
the world, is extracted from a letter writ
ten by a gentleman of information and
veracity, a furgt-on by profetiion, whore
Tided many years at Batavia, in the island
of Java.
" In the year 17*74, I was Rationed at
Batavia, as a surgeon in the frrvice of the
Dutch Eatt India company. During my
residence there I received several differ
ent accounts of the Bohon Upas, and the
violent effects of its poison. They all
then seemed incredible lo me, but.raised
my curiosity in so liigh a degree, that I
resolved to inveltigate this iwbjeft tho
roughly, and to trust only to my own ob
fervations. In cottftquence of this reso
lution 1 applied to the governor general
for a pass to travel thro' the country —
My requell was granted, and having pro
Cured every information, I £et out 011 my
expedition. I had procured a recommen
dation from ah old Malayin priest to an
other priest:, who lives on 'he nearest ha
bitnblefpot to the tree, which is about 15
or 16 miles d ill ant. The letter proved of
great service to me in my undertaking, aS
that priest is appointed by the emperor to
reside the e, in order to prepare for eter
nity the fouls of those who, fo.r different
crimes, are fentenc-d to approach the tree
and to procure the-poifon.
This malignant tree grows about 27
leagues from Batavia. It is surrounded
on all fides, by a circle of high hills and
mountains, and tile country round it, to
the dill ant of ten or twelve miles from the
tree is entirely barren : Not a tree, not a
' shrub, nor even the lead plant or grass is
to be fcen. I have made the tour all
around his dangerous spot, at about 18
miles distant from the centre,>.nd I found
the afpe.n of the country on all fides
«q ially dreary. The winJs are for the
mod part hot and sultry, at other times
the atmosphere is calm and fuffocating,
and every thing around wears the appear
ance of dejedtion, death&melancholy. The
eafielt ascent of the hills is f om that part
where the old ecclesiastic 1 wells. From
his hcufe the criminals are sent for the poi
son, into-which the points of all the war
like instruments arc cipped It is of high
value, and produces a considerable revenue
to the Indian emperor of the interior regi
ods of the island.
The peiion which is procured from this
tree, is a gum that iflues constantly out
in abundance between the baik .md the
tree itfelf, like the camphire. M ilefac
tors, who for their crimes are sentenced tc
die, are the only persons who fetch the
poison, and this is the only chance they
have of saving their lives After sentence
as pronounced upon them by the judge,
they are alked in court, whether they will
die by the hands of the executioner, 01
whether they will go to the Upas tree sot
a ' *of poison J
Th;y commonly prefer the latter pro
pi 1 1, as there is not only some chance ol
preserving their lives, but also a certainty,
in cafe of their fafe return, that a provision
will be made for them in future by the
emptror. They are also permitted to ask
a favour from the emperor, which is gen
erally of a trifling nature, and commonly
granted. They are then provided with a
silver or tortoise fhellbox, into which they
are to put the poisonous gum, and are pro
perly inttru&ed how to proceed, while they
are upon their dangerous expedition. A
mong other particulars they are always
told to attend to the diredtion of the
winds, as they are to go towards the tree
fc«fore the wind, so that the effluvia from
die tree Sre always blown from them.
They are told, likevvife, to travel with the
titmoft dispatch, as that is the only me
thod ef enluring a fafe return. They arc
afterwards sent to the house of the oIJ
pried, to which place they are commonly
attended by their friends and relations
Here they generally remain foine days, in
expe&ation of a favourable breeze. Du
ring that time the etclefiadic prepares
them for their future fate, in the eternal
world, by piayer6 and admonitions.
When the hour of their departure ar
riv.s, the pried puts over their heads a
long leather cap, with tvo glaflcs before
their eyes, which comes d wn as far a;
their breail ; and also provides them vvit'i
a pair of leather gloves. They are then
condn&ed by a guard, attended by the
pried,and their friends and relations, about
two miles on their journey. Here the
pried repeats his indruftions, and tel's
:htm where they are to look for the tree.
He shews them a hill, which they are told
to ascend, and that on the other fide they
will find a rivulet, which they are to fol
low, and which will conduct them dire&ly
:o the Upas. They now take leave of
?ach other, and amidd prayers for their
r uccefs, the criminals haflen away.
The worthy old ecclefiadic has allured
cne, that during his residence there, for
ipwards of 30 years, he had difmified
\bove seven hundred criminals in the manner
which I have described, and that scarce
y two out of twenty have returned. He
shewed me a catalogue of all the unhappy
ufferers, with the date of their departure
r rom his house annexed, and a lift of the
:ffences for which they had been con
demned. To which were added the named
as those who ha I returned in fafety. 1
lfterwards saw a lift of those culprits, at
he jail keeper's at Sotira Charta, and found
hat they perfe&ly corresponded with each
3ther, and with the different infoimativms
which I afterwards obtained.
1 was present at some of those meian
:holy ceremonies and desired different
Criminals to bring with them some pieces
if the wood, or a final! branch, or some
eaves of this wonderful tree. I have also
jiven them silk cords, defuing them to
ir.eafure its-lhickncfs. I never could pro
;ure more than two dry leaves, that were
picked up by one of them on his return ;
md all I could learn from him concerning
he tree itfclf was, that it dood o» the
borders of a rivulet, as described by the
jld priest, that it was of a middling fiz»,
"another account fays eight feet in circum
'"erence near the ground, and about ninety
Fe t high] ;:nd that five or fix young trees
:>f the fame kind, dood close by it ; but
:hat no other 111 rub or plant could be seen
n its neighbourhood ; and that the ground
:onlided of a brownifli sand, full of pebble
Hones of a flinty kind, almod impractica
ble for travelling, and covered with bleach
id bones and dead bodies.
After many conversations with the old
Malayan pried, I rpeftioned him about the
fird discovery, and alked his opinion ol
this dangerous tree; upon which he in
formed me, that above one hundred years
igo, the country round the tree was beau
tiful and verdant, but inhabited by a race
i>f people drongly addidted to the fins of
Sodom and Gomorrah : when the great
departed prophet Mahomet, incensed that
they led such detedable lives, applied to
God to punish them : upon which God
eaufed this tree to grow out of the earth,
which destroyed them all, and rendered
the country forever uninhabited.
Such was the opinion and creed of the
Malayan priest. I fliall not attempt a
:omment, but must observe that all the
Malayans consider this tree as an holy in
(lrument of the great prophet to punifli
the fins of mankind, and therefore to die
if the poison of the Upas is generally con
sidered among them as an honourable
death. For that reason I also observed
that the criminals who were going to the
tree, were generally dressed in their bed
ipparel.
This however is certain, though it may
ippear incredible, that from 15 to lb
niles round this tree, not oaly no human
:reature can exist, but ill that space of
ground, no living animal of any kind has
ever been difeovcred. I have also been
allured by several persons of veracity, that
there are no fifh in the waters, nor has any
r -t. mouse, nor any o.her vermin been
seen there ; and when any birds fly so near
his tree that the effluvia reaches them,
hey fall a f.crificeto the effedts of the
poison. This fircumftar.ce has been as
cettatned by different criminals, who, in
their return, have fc:n the bir<3a drof
down, and have picked them up dead, and
brought tl.em to the old eccieiiallic. I
'."ill here mention an instance which provet
this fact beyond all doubt, and which hap
pened during my stay at Java. —In the
year 1775, a rebellion broke out amor.g
Ihe fubjefts of the Mafiay, a fovereigir
prince whose dignity is nearly equal to
that of the emperor: They refufed to
pay a duty imposed upon them by their
lovereign, whom they openly opposed.
The Mafiay sent a body of a thousand
troops to disperse the rebels, and to drive
them with their families, out of his do
minions. '1 hus 4.00 families, confiding ol
above 1600 fou!s, were obliged to leave
their native country. Neither the empe
ror nor the sultan would give them pro
tection, not only because rhey were rebels,
but also thro' fear of di pleasing their
neighbour, the Mafiay. In this dillrefsfr.!
situation, tlicy had no other rcfource thar
to repair to the uncultivated parts around
the Upas, and requeued permission of the
;mperor to fettle there. Thisrequeft was
granted on condition of their fixing theii
lbode not more than 12 or 14. miles from
the tree, in order not to deprive the inha
hitants already fettled there, at a greater
•-i'd a nee, of-their cultivated lands. Wit!
this they were obliged to comply : bin
the confequsnce was, that in less than twe
months their number was rednced to abotn
500. The chiefs of those who remained.
l eturned to the Mafiay, informed him oi
their loflVs, and intreated his pardon, which
induced him to receive them again as his
fubjeft.=, thinking them ftifficiently punish
ed for their mifconduft. I have seen and
coriyerfed with fever .1 of those who fur
vived, soon after their return. They al
had tile appearance of persons tainted with
an infjftious disorder ; they looked pale
a- d weak, and from the account which
they gave of the loss of their comrades, ol
the fymptomsand circumstances which at
tended their difiolution, such as convjl
fions, and other ligns of a violent death,
I was fully convinced that they fell victims
to the poison.
[The remainder in our next.]
METEOROLOGICAL OBzEkf siTUATS.
July 1793.
D. Vi\Barum. 7b(r. jy.ni. JVtatbcr
Tuefddy, 13. 6| 30 05 71 S. wLFW.
V 30. o 89 W. H •
Wedntjday, 14. Ctj 30. c 75 S. VV . hair.
~ 1: oc 8a IS. W Ruin.
'Tbur/dJJ, 15. L, 30. u 72 N.N fc.j Rain.
330 1' 7C j Nt- Clouay.
t riddy, 10. o 3;,. i yj jN.N.E .\talr.
3 1 V- il S3 IN. h I fIV
dd: '■ rday, 17. 6 33. l| Ijb. Vv fair J
3' 30. G' Bfi IS. W. <in
Sunday, it, o 30. 1 73 c-.in ,Fuit.
3 30. o 89 S. W do.
Monday, 19. 6 30. ji 72 N. \ratr.
3 30. i| So N. I Cloudy.
To be Sokl or Let,
(And of tbh immediate pojjr-flun given )
THAT handsome, well-bum three ltory new
house, fuuate on the east fide of fouch
Fourth-ltreer, ne. r the Indian Philadel
phia. This fituati>n is valuable, being in a
central part of the city, and convenient to the
banks and public offices. The house is 25 feet
in front, and, with its offices, extends nearly 10c
feet backwards. It has the privilege of an ale .
4 \ feet wiae* The offices ate three stories high,
and, together with the house, arc built ot brick :
thefecontain five apartments, befiJes a wash houle.
and four of them have fi.e places. In the dwell
ing house itftlf, there are nine rooms and eight
fiie places ; fix of the rooms are spacious, and aI»
fafhionably finifhed. T1 e garrets are ceiled : tht
stair-case is elegant. There is a good cellar under
the whole, and in the yard a pump.
And to be Soid,
230 Acres of unimproved la' <.i, 18 miles from the
thriving town ol Harrifburg, Pennl)lvaiiia. This
tract lies in a val'ey, and is fa id to be vet/ gooo
farming land. There are ore or more mills near
the prcmifes. The river Juniata is about five
miles distant 5 whence it is boatable into the Suf
quehanna, and thence so Hariifburg. Also,
A deftrablt reirtat, or firm, in Newtown, the
county town of Bucks, Pennsylvania j contain
ing nearly 15 acies of luid, natural]) very rich,
3nd now highly improved, it is surrounded on all
lides by public flreets or roads j and may, with
present advantage, be converted into town lots
that would prove 0/ giowiwg importance. Then
i- 2 commodious brick houle upon the premises,
two stories in height, having four rooms on
rloor, a fpsCious entry o-r pafiage throughout, and
a extending under the whole houle. It i
well acCcrwmodated with out houses. About thret
acres are occupied by an orchard of tfie best graft
ed Newtown pippins r distant from Philadelphia
25 miles 5 from Trenton 9 ; from Bristol 11 ; and
is within five miles of the river Delaware. The
situation rs extremely healthy ; the profpe&s are
charmingly pidiurefque, and the neighbourhood
aftbrds a genteel society.
Besides the above,
Two corner lots in the town, of one acre each,
are ottered for sale, together with abowt 16 acies
of excellent land, half a n.Ue from the tywa,
under the bed culture anJ Improvement* Tir»
or three of t'nefe acre? are in timber.
Ltkeicife :s be S Jd.
An eftimablc farm of 53© acies, in the county
ot Chelter, 39 miles from Philadelphia : acres
of which are of the richest bottom. 'The whole
of this land enjoys a k:nJ, itr.ng and fertile foil :
is well watered, and admiiab'y adapted to the
raiting of grain and ajl kinds of (tock \ at prefenC
there are nearly 30 acres of made-meadow, and
20 or 30 more of watered meadow may be made
ac pleasure : about 200 aie luxuriantly covered
with a vaiiety of valuable tirnber. Upon the
preni fes, there are a fsim house, barn, &c. a
never-failing dream of good water, and a moffc
produ&ive apole-orchard covering about fix acres 5
the fruit of a pood and lasting quality : the pur
chaser may b<". accommodated wich all or any part
of the stock or farming utensils upon ths place.
The position of this farm is important, lying or\
>oth fiJe9 of the tnain road, and bounaed south
erly by the road to Philadelphia through Down
ing-town j—Whence it is distant 12 or 13 miles :
On the north iris bounded by the road to Warwick
Furnace, fjtuate but a few miles diltant. At thia
point, the premises enjoy a capital stand both for
I store a»d tavern, and also an eligible situation
for a village, which would here have foms
rommnnding advantages, and might be an object
:o any gentlemen wishing to found an exrenlivc
and profitable settlement. On the one fide, it
has a dirctt communication with Downing'*
town ; and with rhe rich and populous fettleunene
>f C<>nefto«o valley on the other, both lying with
in a /hort ride of the place. There is already a
market here for produce at the PhiladeJphn prices
-•-the neighbouring iron-works creating a constant
demand. Plenty of good limestone may be had
within 5 miles of the premises, „and a ts
make use of ir will be convejed by the proprie
tor if reouired. In short this farm deserves the
attention of any person or persons inclined to
avail themselves of advantages such as those it
■JflVlTes.
The title to tl'r several premises are indifpnta
ble 5 and the proprietor will warrant to defend
tiliern. The terms of sale, for all or any of the
lands, will be made accommodating to the p*urcha
lers. For farcher particulars, a, ply to the sub
scriber, «t No. 6, south Fourth-ftfeef, or at his
store, the corner of Market and Thiid-flreets*
Philadelphia.
ROBERT SMOCK.
Aug. 10. i'j. w. t. f.
WARRANTED
Boulting-Cloths & Mill-Jloms,
For sale at No, 437 NorthSecoml-ftreet, by
OLIVER EVANS,
VAT"HO hath viewed the Cloths and Stones in a
gteat many of the be/t mills in different parts
of America, and procured samples of the clcths,
with an account how they proved, and colle&ed
the opinion and judgment of many of the molt
experienced n;illers refpedVmg the quality of cloths
stone for the different purposes : therefore, if
they do n »t prove good, and suitable for the pur
poses for which he fells them, they will be re
ceived again, others delivered in their ftrad, and
the cofls of carriage paid. Drafts of the belt and
fim;ile(t plans for boulting, and belt and fimpltfk
cpnftrudtions of mills now in use, will be (hewei
to the pUrchasers, if required.
August 17. I a. w. t. f.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold by Thom asDobson, Wil
li am Young, Robert Campbell*
MeflTrs. Rice and Co. and John M,
Culloch, No. 1, North Third-ltreet,'
A N EXAMINATION of the late pro
* ceedings in Congress rcfpe&ing the
official condu£V of the Secretary of the
Treafnry ; with Obfrrvations, &c. on the
application of loans from Koll ml, negoci
ated under the aits of the 4th and 12th of
Aiiguit 1790.' —The price of the above
pamphlet is three sixteenths of a dollar, or
is 4d. 1-2. April 24. 2aw if
*#* The author requests his readers to
correct the following ERRATA in the
pamphlet above mentioned Page 5.
line 11 —2d. paragraph, ior Coalition read
Collifio?j. Page 25. line n—2d.parag
■tead of Batik directors read 44 Stocks
holders."
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to b« fold at the refpedlive Book Stores of
Jofepb Crukjhank and c Than:as Dcbfon, and may
be had at the Printing office, No. 209, Mar-
[Price ore eighth of a dollar.J
' LETTERS,
iddrefil'd to the Yeomanry of the
United States:
Containing forae Obfcrvations on Funding
and Bar.ft Syfiemr.
EY an AMERICAN FARMER.
AU/v town/hip, Lancd/lsr county,
To whom it may concern.
WHEREAS my wife SARAH SHAW hath
>ehaved tiefelf in a very unbecoming manner, I
>iave thought fit to forewarn all persons t»-ufting
ner on my account, as 1 am determined to pay
"o debts of her contra&ing, after the date
nereof.
JOHN SHAW.
August C<h, 1793.
PRINTED BY
CHI LD S and SWA IN E.
AT Tit—lfc *TF IC S N0» 209, HICH-STI E£ T»
MAS FIFTH-STB EIT,
VMUADSLri«t*«