Numb. 34 of Vol. ll.]
Report of the Secretary of the Treasury, re
ia'ite to the L?ans negotiated under the
A-ii of the 4//: and iii/frf Augujl, 1790.
k£Pub!'iihed by order of the Houfa of Re
presentatives.]
TREASURY DEPARTMENT.
SIR,
T7IF. next most important article of in
quiry involved in the resolutions of the
Home of Rcprefentatives of ths twenty
third of January lalt; a.nd in the observa
tions which have been made refpefting the
cond i t of this department, relates to the
ioa as negotiated under the acts«»££|ie fourth
■and twelfth of one
hundred and ninety. •
The papers which have been tranfinitted
to the Konfefcy order of the President, dif
■clofe the following particulars—
r. That the immediatefiiperintendance
of the bnfinefs of the loans was confided to
the department of the treasury, being na
turally connected with it. This trull, be
lidcs the original inftruttions for regula
ting the execution of it, which have been
communicated, was of course fubjeft to
such directions from time to time, as the
President should think lit to give, or as oc
cafiom (hould require— \ considerable la
titude of discretion, nevertheless, from the
very nature of the cafe, attended it; so as
justly to leave 0:1 the head of this depart
ment, a complete refponlibility in all in-
Itances, where special exceptions do not
appear.
3. That the fir'ft loan which was obtain
ed. was undertaken and completed by the
agency of Wilhetn and Jan Willink, and
Nicolaas and Jacob Van Staphorft and
Hubbard, who both under the former and
present government, have been and are the
banker s of the United St ites at Amsterdam.
That 'vith ill? finale exception of the
firii loan, Wdliain Short, Esq. then charge
des affaires at the court of France, now re
sident mini iter at the Hague, was coniti
tuted the sole agent of this department,
for carrying into effect the powers confided
to it : with this qualification only, that it
any negotiation with a prince or rtate, tc
whom any part of the debt to be discharged
by the loans was due, Ihould be requisite—
the fame was to be carried 011 through the
person, who in capacity of miniller, charge
des affaires.or otherwise,then was or there
after might be charged with transacting the
affairs of the United States, with fuel
prince or state.
4. That all payments, which have beer
nade out of the proceeds of the loans, have
heen made by the immediate and fpeci 1
order of Mr. Short, except those, upon th;
bills of the Treasurer c orthe monies drawl
to this country, and thofc to the inone;
lenders in Holland ; which were made ir
course by our bankers, at the periods the]
refpeftively became due. This consequent
ly embraces all the payments to France
the very 1 ast of which, though agreed foi
by Mr. Morris, in confeqnence of his ha
vin; been employed for a special purpof<
by Mr. Short, was not. and could not b;
complete I, but by the lame immediate ant
special direction of Mr. Short.
It moreover appears, from the fame pa
pers, and more fullyfrom the correfpon
dense at large, now before the Senate, th r
except in the particular'inftance which ha:
been jut Hated, with regard to Mr. Mor
ris, there has been no other agency in the
whole bnfinefs, than that of Mr. Short, anc
of the bankers at Amsterdam and Antwerp
whom he neceffirily employed as inftru
melts in the negotiation with the mone;
len.lers.an 1 in the receipt and difburfemem
of the monies borrowed.—These, as alrea
dy mentioned, were at Amlterdam, the
two honfes of Wilhem and Jan Willink
and of Nicolaas and Jacob Van Staphorfl
a id Hubbard : at Antwerp a Mr. G. De
Volf, was the banker.
It may not be without it 3 uses to add,
that the monies proceeding from the loans,
have constantly remained in the hands ol
the respective bankers, till they have been
paid over to the creditors ; namely, the
French treasury, or their bankers, the mo
ney lenders or their representatives, ths
holders of the bills drawn from this conn
try by the treasurer. Neither Mr. Short
nor Mr. Morris, ha 3 ever had possession of a
single guilder. The latter indeed has never
even had power over one, excepting mere-
Iv a sum of roj,ooo guilders, by letters of
mine dated the 13th September lalt, placed
at his disposal for paying at Paris, according
to stipulation, the incereft 0:1 the debt due
By P. FRENEAU: Publijhtd Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
SATURDAY, February 23, 1793.
tn foreign oncers. The fact is, ami it *.s so
demonitrated by the correspondence al
ready referred to, that I never wrote a line
to Mr. Morris 0:1 the fubjett of the lo.ns
or their proceeds, but in reference to the
cafe, juit mentioned of the interest payable
to foreign officers, in refpeclto which local
foliation governed.
One more circiimftancc only is necessary
to be noticed in this place, vCith a view to
Che elucidation intended : It is this---that
the last payment, though originating prior
to the change in the political polition of
France of the 10th of Augnlt lalt, not ha
ving been consummated till the 6th of Sep
tember following, fell of conrfe under the
tlifpofition of those then in poffellion of the
jower of the nation.
It could not but have been unexpected
:•> me, that exception should be taken to
the report lately made by me on the subject
>f foreign loans, for the omiiEon of details
which I did not at the time, and do not yet
:onceive to have been called for, by the
:ermsofthe resolutions upon which it
ivaJ founded. The request addrefled to
:he President, by those resolutions, was,
that he would cauie to be laid before the
louse a particular account of the sums bor
•owed under his authority by the United
States, the terms on which each loan was
obtained, the applications, which had been
Tilde of the monies, agreeably to appro
priations, th«" balances, if any, which re
named unapplied, fpecifying also at what
imes interaii commenced on the several
"urns obtained, and at what times it was
topped by the several payments made. It
ivas not natural to imagine that these ex
pressions were designed to comprehend a
pecification of the precise authorities, un
ler which the loans were negociated, of
the names of the persons by whom they
ivere negociated, of the particular place or
places where the balance unexpended of
he fuias that had been drawn fen- to the
United States, were depolited. Still lef»
latural was it for me to anticipate furmi
es, which could give to such particulars
lie (hadow of importance. But as ani
nadverlions have attended the emiflion of
those details, I ought to regard it as an ad
nonition to me, to be more full and pre
:ife in my present communication; a mo
tive which co-operates with my desire, to
throw all pollible light upon the fubjeft.
The firft general circumstance, which
-equires to be noticed and explained, after
the particulars that have been communica
ted is this—That all the loans which have
been hitherto obtained, have been made
nnder the authority of both acts, without
particular reference to either.
The idea originally entertained, was. to
conduct them oil a different plan, founding
each loan upon one or the other of the acts;
is will be (Veil by my letter of the 98th of
August, 1790, to our bankers at Amfler-
Jam ; at the fame time, that it will ap
pear, from the fame letter, that the sepa
ration did not appear to ine a matter of
ttonfequence, and that I anticipated the
possibility of a dilficulty in adhering to it in
the particular cafe. That difficulty pro
ved, in the opinion of the bankeri, to be of
Tufficient moment to render the arrange
ment contemplated, under the circumltan
ces of the cafe, unadvifeable ; as they in
form me in their answer to the above
mentioned letter.
But prior to the receipt of that answer,
further enquiry and reflection had deter
mined me to abandon my original idea—
is likely to produce embarrafl'ment and
inconvenience, both in negociation of the
loans, and in the application of their pro
ceeds. It was accordingly concluded to
let the loans proceed indiscriminately, up
t>n both arts.
These loaus were to have reference to
two purpofes—firft, the reimbursement of
the foreign debt ; second, the purchase of
the domestic debt at its market price.
There were weighty reafonsfor carrying
on both these operations concurrently.—
The arrears to France had been a conside
rable time accumulating. It was in every
sense proper that a reimbursement of them
fliould begin witfiaat delay,and dcfirablc for
obvious reasons, that it should go on with
out any very considerable chasms or inter
miflions. This manner of proceeding could
not but have the fairelt chance of being
the molt fatisfactory and convenient to
France ; unless indeed the business were
to have proceeded upon the principle of
an entire postponement of the domestic ob
ject, to that of the reimbursement.
But very cogent reason* rendered this
course not the most eligible. The early
commencement of purchases of the debt,
was a matter of real and great importance.
It was important in two relations ; as it
regarded the advantages to the govern
ment, from redeeming a portion ot t.'ie
debt at low prices ; and still more, as it
regarded the savings to the country from
railing the price of Hock on foreign pur
chasers; the beneficial influence upon the
credit of the nation abroad and at home,
to be expected from a quick appreciation
of the public obligations; the benefit to
the public creditors in general, and to the
molt meritorious classes of them in parti
cular, winch would rfftilt from the fame
cause ; all which objects were fuggefled
from the treasury, as motives to the provi
ion respecting purchases, and are evident
ly c ntemplated in the preamble of the
i£t, * li!«U makes that provitioii.
Exclusive of the otlier advantages,
whi !i ,jlve been cited, and which are of a
ri:\ urs. truly precious and important, that
i)f preventing foreigners from acquiring
the property of our citizens at a great un
ler-value is too obvious not to be eftima
:ed, as it ought to be, at fir ft light. It
:annot require argument to shew how
rreat an evil it was, that foreigners should
je able to acquire with nine or ten, that
or which the country would ultimately
lave to pay them twenty, with full inte
:eft in the interval ; nor how much it
nerited the attention of the government
:o prevent or lefl'en so serious ail evil.
Btjt the influence which the purchases
iy the government may have had upon
this event may not be equally obvious- It
s however not difficult to be traced.—
Price niturally keeps pace with competi
tion and demand ; whatever increases the
latter, Oeceffarily tends to an augmenta
tion of the former. Merely then as ano
ther purcli3fer, by adding to the competi
tion and demand, the purchases of go
vernm it, were calculated to influence a
rue o? price. L.it they Iml xv effect
more than proportioned to their real ex
tent. Imagination has much to do in all
fucli quellions, and in scarcely any thing
so much as in what relates to public
funds. Kxperience proves, that it is here
exerted with uncommon effort. The ap
pearance of the government as a purcha
lerhas not failed to excite the expectation
of a greater demand than was real, be
cause the extent of the resources to be
employed, might be very great, and was
unknown : which by Simulating the zeal
of those who wanted to buy, left the price
should rife suddenly and coniiderably upon
them, and by encouraging those who wan
ted to fell, under the hope of a better
price, to ho!»l back the commodity, has in
both ways generally contributed to give a
spring to the market. Prices once raised,
when founded on intrinsic value, tend to
maintain themselves ; becaufc those who
have given them, are for the most part
interelled in keeping them up. And eve
ry nc-.v impulse, which they receive, serves
to cairy them rapidly to their just level.
Those who have been «olt attentive
to th.; operation of the public purchases,
will have the least doubt that they had a
material agency, in accelerating the ap
preciation of the public stock.
\To be Continued,.3
For Mi National Gazette.
vyERE itpoffible (and it is believed that
** it is) that a machine for abridging la
bour could be rendered as effectual for
that purpose as represented in the National
Gazette of February 13, there are few if
any lawful means that would be more
likely to contribute to meliorating the con
dition of the slaves, and to lefl'en the want
of such numbers of them, than the contri
vance there suggested. The friends to
the abolition of slavery and the lovers of
their country, among us, as well as of ag
riculture, will, no doubt, feel a degree of
fatisfaition in the refillt, should the ma
chine proposed meet with encouragement.
One of the pnrpofes of a machine men
tioned in the paper above referred to, is tc
increase the culture of that valuable arti
cle, Hemp. Indeed, it would be equal tc
any bounty given within the union. The
amount of bounty given in some states 011 c
year, on the whole quantity of this arti
cle, wonld be a valuable compensation tc
the artist—and where the bounty is so gi
ven, it might be taken off, as the cultiva
tion would be more benefited by the aniojim
ot labourJaved than by the bounty given.
As some perfotis at u tliflance, who rea.'
[Total No. 138.]
the National Gazette, may not have an op
portunity to enquire, and yet would be de
lirous to know the particular uses of the
machine alluded to, upon that considera
tion it (hall be described more particular
ly, especially in its application to the inter
ests of agriculture.
It requires to be explained, how is the
saving to be made ? Should the inventor
meet with encouragement, he promises the
execution, in the several uses, ihall be such
as is hereafter stated.
It ought to be observed, in the firft place,
that there is scarcely any man, who has a
regard for his reputation as an artist, that
would in this free manner, hazard it ill
:he face of the public, had he not cogent
ind well founded reasons for so doing;
md it is chiefly upon the known opinion of
many, who are well versed in mechanics,
hat so bold a declaration is now made.
Che properties of the Machine are as fol
low :
One of them (hall threfti at leafi sixty
mfhels of wheat or rice per day, and other
;rain in proportion, with two men and one
-.orfe [or it may be fitted to go by water
ilfo, in either cafe.] The machine (hall
ilfo turn a common fan, to clean the grain
it the fame time.
The expence for threlhing wheat by
land, in the usual manner, at four pence
jer bulhel, amounts, on a thousand bulh
.ls, to £. 16 13 4 —Provifun for the la
bourers for the above quantity £. 5 o o—
otal £.21 134.
The fame machine, the form being chan
ged in part, fliall break 400 Vt. of hemp
ier day, with one man and t\\ o horses :
flax, if of a long growth, in proportion.
The expence of breaking hemp, by hand,
s 11/3 per hundred wt. per 1150
—a labourer's provilions £. 3 o o —total
S O.
The machine, being in the fame form
ivith that last mentioned, one man and two
Siorfes fliall pound (or beat; from 400 to
;co wt. of hemp per day ; iit /or spinning
fither for duck or twine—whereas, the
?xpence of pounding hemp by hand for
wine (as now given) at 1 penny per lb. a
nountstojf. S 6 8 per ton.
As the above statement is on one ton of
lenip and 1000 bulhels of grain, the farm
?rs and manufacturers may calculate there-
Tom the expence and saving, according to
;heir lituation. If only one out of tf>e
liree purposes proved fnccefsful, the ma
rine would be worth the cost for either.
[N. B. The coil of the machine has been
before stated.]
Feb. 20.
To the Editor of the National Gazette.
S I R,
vyHEN we contemplate the wretched*
ness of the people in monarchical go
vernments, we have great reason to con
gratulate ourselves, in being placed in a
:ountry, where the rights and privileges of
:he poorest citizen, as well as the moil op
ulent, are recognized, and man acknow
ledges no matter except his creator. As
ife without liberty is rather an evil than a
jleffing, but when connected become the
:hoicell gifts of heaven ; we ought to be
equally solicitous for the preservation of
;ach. As the former is prolonged by a
Irift regard to temperance and avoiding
uxury and dillipation, so the latter depends
lpon keepingour political confliti 'onfree
if all diseases. Unfortunately for man
cind, they inanifeft too little attention to
his fubjeft. Having by the most noble ef
forts, once obtained their freedom, they
"oon become insensible of its value, and fuf
er it to be loft by fheir intolerable fupine
lefs. The history of most countries, war
ants this aflertion. Liberty, like the chaf
:ity of the fair sex, ought to be well guard
ed—lf the unwary female surrenders the
smallest out-poft, the capture of the cita
:lel will of course follow. So it is with
efpect to governments. When the people
[uft'er the least innovation, it becomes 3
licp for other encroachments, until the
£reat barriers of their liberties are en
tirely levelled.
Much of the security of a republic, de
fends upon the prudent choice of public
f rvants. For my own part, I apprehend
more danger of a change being made in
our excellent constitution by the vices ot"
men ill power, than from foreign invalion.
While their views, extend only to the in
ter eft and benefit of their country —while
they manifeft, by purity of morals, (impli
city of manners, plainncfs in their drefsandirmfffc cf living, ind a love of equality, a
contempt of baubles and titles which mon
archs and aristocrats make their glory to
conlift of ; 110 danger may be apprehended
—On the contrary, when they become in
fected with the vice; of royalty, and aflume
the fa(hion; of monarchical governments,
we (hould watch them with the eyes ol
Argus, and as soon as in our power (trip
them of a 1 atithorty, left the contigior:
ihouid spread. Sufpxion, tho' by no mean
amiable in private life, yet in politics is es
sentially necessary. Tnet mple of Liberty
like that ot Velta. should never be withou:
a centinel. Far be it from me, to incul
cate a fpir't of licentioufnef. among the
people. I love order and. good govern
ment ; at the fame time, I profefs an ab
horrence of the customs and manners o
courts, as conducing to corrupt the mind
of the people, and to dellroy that equalit;
which is the basis of a republic. For in
flance—were I to fee public servants en
co'. raging levees, making expenlive enter
ta: nnents, setting up magnificent equipa
ge ■-, cloathing themfe'ves in majelteria
■ ibes, (hutting the doors of the le.iflature
upon the people, and excluding private ci
tizens from their tables ; I {hould not heli
tate to found the alarm, and freely declare
flich pra&ices to be dangerous to liberty
and entirely inconsistent with the princi
ples of a free government. If, however
those features of royalty (hould take place
here, I trull my countrymen will not be
dazzled at the light, nor will they bellou
adoration upon mere empty (how, bu
make virtue and patriotism, only, the ob
je£ts of their approbation.
VALERIUS.
Feb. 19, 1793.
Forth: National Gazette.
Number 111.
THF. climax of evidence, adducible te
evince the inimical impreflion toward
the constitution, which actuates and impel:
the Secretary of the Treasury, atfords se
veral important fa£ts for conlideration anc
application. Nor can it be forefeen where
the evidence will end. His ftrugglings pro
duce frelh entanglements, and fur
ther to nullify the matters he is striving tc
conceal.
On the firft days of June, July, August
and September, 1792, respectively, the fun
of 100,000 dollars was borrowed ot the
bankoft'ie United States, making in the
whole the sum of 400, oop dollars, foi
which this bank has been ever liuce, and i
How receiving interest.
It appears that this and other banks
were on each day polfefled of a much largei
sum, than the sum on each day borrowed
of public monies, entered in the account o:
the treasurer.
But waving this fact, for the fake o
viewing the Secretary's conduit with al
poifible favor, it must be admitted as re
sulting from his own fiiewing, that more
than the sum borrowed, of the monie:
drawn by him from Holland, was in some
of these banks, before the loans were ne
gotiated, and are flill there.
For thus I prove it. Above 1,265,44!
dollars were drawn hither from Hollane
previous to June 1792, and moftofitir
the two preceding years. Deelu£t the fun
of 445,263 dollars, 83 cents, paid for the
relief of St. Domingo, and there remain:
820,184 dollars, 17 cents. This money
the Secretary slates, enabled him by it:
mftrumentality, to proceed in the purcha
ses of the public debt. He endeavours tc
imprefsan idea that he aflually used it foi
that purpose, but cautiously avoids such ai
aflertion : recollecting, that he had in hi:
report of January the 3d, given an accoun
of the whole money drawn from Holland
incompatible with fuih an idea. And thi
reduced him to the dilemma of inventing £
new term, 111 order to account for the ap
plication of money. But this idea (hali be
further illullrated in my next.
The order of January the 19th, 1792,
calling for information respecting the itate
of the finances, mull have been for the pur
pose of enabling Congress to judge, whe
ther taxes or loans were necefl'ary to sup
ply the expenditures of the Indian war ;
and t' report which followed it, compi
led in the boasted offices of" check, anc
signed by the Secretary, concealed frou
Congress, that above 1,027,068 dollars hac
been drawn for previous to November the
ill, 1791- If Congress had known thi:
important fact, would they have fandtion
ed the loan from the bank in 1792 ?
From this concealment resulted the ne
cefiity, exhibited by the report, for the law
enabling the Secretary to borrow of the
bank, and he executed the power with a
knowledge, that either in this, or in other
paper institutions, a much larger sum ol
public money was lying unemployed, alias,
working by the new rule of inflrumental
ity-
In this tranfa&ioi* is displayed thefyflem
ofoeconomy and finance, by which the Se
cretary is directed. The payment of in
terest for the fame money, both to Hol
land and the bank, for the purpose ofinftru
■mentality only, may comport with his sys
tem, tho' it cannot conlilt with the com
mon ideas of husbanding public funds.
If the motive for this management had
been only private gain, or official pecula
tion, altho 1 it would have been )i:ghly re
prehenlible in the emcer, yet to the public
the misfortune would have been limited
by tile number o. dollars attuaily'loft.
But this ameliorating motive does'fiot
appear, nor can it be for a inoiix iit attri
buted to a politician of boatifd talents,
gre it ambition," and expanded \ .evvs
No alternative remains but to consider
this a. a political tranfaflion. In tin
view it resolves itfelf into the following
purposes.
To provide a fund ready to be employed
for political objects.
To acquire the powerful support of all
the puper institutions, by distributing a
mong thein the inftruuientality of a great
sum of public money.
To be prepared for accommodations to
individuals, that the legillature may be
more manageable.
In short, for the purpose of introducing
and establishing the Britilli idea of govern
ng by a mode; to convey an idea of which,
:he courtly term " influence" is reforteS
:o.
This design is truly alarming. Balance
he loss of 100,000 dollars, (imply, again ft
:he introduction of such a political fyllem.
is your constitution, at which this fyllem
s levelled, only worth a few dollars?
Of all aflailants, those who poflefs the art
jf Tapping, are the mofc dangerous; con
.caled from their unfufpefting victims, 1111-
: 1 the mine, is in readiness for the explo
ion, inevitable defh uftion ensues. What
:ompar son can be drawn, between the ma
ignancy of public and private immoral
ly ?
In these observations, to avoid all cavil
ing concerning facts, the argument has
aeen confined to a small portion of the
2,304,769 dollars 13 cents, drawn from
Holland, nor has any notice been taken of
near a million of the money, borrowed
:here, applied to the payment of the inter
est of the public debt, contrary to law,
ivhilft funds were provided here for the
lurpole, and the legillature are kept unin
formed as to this misapplication.
As rhe laws require the fanclion of the
President, before the Secretary could take
i step in this hufinefs of loans, an inspection
as the instructions given by a man, whose
political and private integrity is founded
on a rock, would be a public gratifica
tion.
Then it would appear, how far these in
ftruitions would jultify the Secretary—and
then, if no such juftification should result
from them, instead of being limited to an
article or two in these animadversions, the
fubjert would expand itfelf; and a field of
political evolution?, extenfiveindeed, would
emerge from its present obfeurity.
Perhaps it might even be inferred- that a
leading motive inducing the latter drafts
from Holland, through the medium of the
bank of the United States, was gratuitously
to subjoin to their other chartered privi
leges, at the public expence, a right to go
vern the rate of exchange.
It might appear that this monopoly of the
rate of exchange, would, by enabling the
bank to govern its fluctuations, enable it
also to filch from individuals, confulerable
unearned gains.
Nay, it might poflibly appear, that this
money was devoted by the President to the
payment of the French debt, and that he
had been ignorant of this vast train of tif
qal manoeuvring;
111 drawing money from Holland hi
ther, for the pretence of pa)'.ig officers in
France :
In the pretence of relieving a French
island :
And for the pretence of discharging the
public debt, whilst this increment of the
fund, is not divulged to the President, to
Congress, or to the Commissioners appoint
ed by law to invert it.
Such facts- as these would explode the
whole system at once. A difintetefletl man
would no longer doubt. The admimftra
tion of a republican government, upon mo
narchical principles, would then be obvi
ous to the molt cursory observer. And
then the people might consider, whether
they would fuffer a system, which is making
proselytes at their expence, which engen
ders influence by the means of influence—
and corrupt.on by the help of corruption—
ought longer to exist.
Oil Catullus ! Catullus! is thy patriot
'fin extin£t ? Thou, who couldeft with mi
croscopic eye, pick out a fpeculativc moat,
and depiflita mountain ! wilt thou lilert
ly fuffer the demon of influence to infufe
itfelf into our political system so entirely,
as that no chyniical art shall be able to de
compose the mass ; and that nothing short
of a political explosion, can reduce it to its
firft principles? But thou art dead—thy
immaculate foul, tortured as it was with
the most minute official spec. could not bear
the killing fight of our couftitution sapped,
undermined, and influenced into 1 uin.
FRANKLIN-
Feb. 20, 1793.
For the Nationai, Gazette,
Mr. Freneau,
A S the senate of this state has at length
yielded to a joint vote for a federal se
nator, and an election will soon take place,
it may not be mal-apropos, confident)" the
prefer.t condition of things, to give a few
hints refpefting the character who ought
to receive tne appointment.
i ft. He ought to he a man of decided and
tried republican pi inciples, and an enemy
to inequality ill every lorm or manner.
2d. Ke ought to be a man \»h<>conhders
himfelf as one of the people, and as their
agent, and therefore not above injfiruttioli;
for the agent who considers himfelf as the
superior of his employer, and treats his in
structions with contempt, is unfit lor any
trust.
3d. He ought not to he a /peculator t
bank diredorstockholder or certificate mon
ger of any kind, left the agricultural and
commercial interests of the United States
fliould be loft in his individual concerns,
and the Secretary of the Treaftiry become
his conscience keeper.
4th. He ought not to be a slavish imita
tor of moriarcnical systems or monarchical
parade, but he ought to consider simplicity
of every fort as congenial with our govern
ment, and neceflary topreftrveit Irom de
generacy.
jth. He ought to be well informed oi
the interests of the United States, and com
petent to the exposition of certain heretical
politico-metapHyficalJubtilties which have
sprung up among us, calculated to perplex,
if not to delude us.
6th. He ought to have firnmefs enougl
to be above being taken by the teeth; foi
when the understanding is impregnable ti
direct attack, it sometimes yields to the
mining qualities of good dinners.
7th. He ought to be firm and indepen
dent in his sentiments, and ahove being
fettered by names or station—truth anc
reason ought to be the firft articles of hi;
creed.
Bth. He ought to be a man who wil
give a decided opposition to every thing
which can lefi'en the dignity and impor
tance of lepublicanifm, such as titles, anc
every species of royal baubles J and whe
will proscribe every folly which can impair
the vigor of our republican character.
Such ought to be the man who is to fill
one of the moll important stations among
freemen, and such I trust he will be. A
riflocracy is at present in convulsions, anc
will 'ere long breathe its last : the fuccef
of repnblicanifin in France, and the dille
initiation of her principles among us, have
operated as a poison upon it, that has pro
duced this conHift of diiiblution ; and I'enn
fylvania, who has hitherto been among th<
foremolt in the glorious career of repub
licaiiifm, will renew the fatal potion 'til
death (hall dose the scene. May even
Pennfylvanian contribute to the dellructioi
of this hydra.
PHILADELPHIENoIS.
Philad. Feb. 21.
For the National Gazette.
Number 11.
To ALEXANDER. HAMILTON, Secre
tary of the Ireufi.ry of the United States.
■-pHE intended difcuflion of the two ini
portant quellions, slated in my firfl let
ter as the ground of charge against you foi
a misapplication of the public monies, wil
be deferred until the whole of those month
ly lucubrations, which compose the niotle;
defenceyou have set up, are fully and com
pletely before the public. In the meat
time, that you may be turnifhed in due fen
Jon, with fufHcient matter for a fupplemen
to those elaborate treatifes'you have com
piled, and are preparing to circulate ii
thousands throughout the United States
and moreover that you may pollefs mate
rials for another and farther conjedum.
Jlatement. I (hall now proceed to exhibii
to the public view, a charge against
arising out of a circumstance glanced at ir
my late letter, and which places the cor
rupt principles of your fifcal administrati
on in too strong a point of view, to be de
nied, evaded, or explained away.
The charge is this, that you influenced the
paflage of the act of the second of May
1792, " for railing a sum of money for the
protection of the frontiers"—which is bet
ter known to the merchants by the name
of the additional duty ait, thro' the oper
ation of politive causes produced by your
felf under circumstances of wilful decep
tion, concealment, and misrepresentation
of the then atlual ftateand condition of the
public-funds and resources, and that from
the operation of these causes, and of that
preifing artificial necefiity which you had
thus created, the two Houses of Congref;
were, it is believed,induced to pass the act.
and the President to approve of it, when,
had the true and real Hate of the public
resources been faithfully exhibited by you.
the presumption fairly is,that neither Con
gress or the President would have given a
fanftion to the measure.—My proofs are
stubborn, fir, and fortunately those only,
which have been prodr. Ed by yourfelf.
Previous, however, to a recital of the
fails, it will allilt the public mind in a righl
application of them, to offer a few prelim
inary remarks on some of the considera
tions detailed at large in your letter of the
13th of February, and which have imme
diate and particular relation to thisfubjeft.
Amidst that profufion of felf-adulation on
the measures of your own administration,
and of those comprehensive views of policy
which ftitrulatcil ycu to iratefrchgip.rr.-
tic exertions to fsvecur totttrir.g empire,
you fay that feelingly alive to tie public
intercit, you difmifltd from your n.ii.d all
inferior confederations of the J', rill propri
ety of what you was doirg. as t qually
weak and pusillanimous, confidently rely
ing, I prefuine, that th? purity oi your mo
tives would always cniure a juMification.
In this paramount fpiritof patriotjm, you
saw with eagle's eye the firft approach of
danger from Indian warfare and tell us of
General St.Clair's letter of the23d of Au
gust 1790, announcing its appearance. which
came to hand exactly eleven days after the
adjournment of Congress—This, fir, cal
led for all your vigilance, and yon assign it
as a principal cause, if not the basis, of that
Jecret iyitcm of bill-drawing, which you
prefer.tly after commenced v.ithout the pri
vity or knowledge of any of the depart
ments of government, so far as the public
are yet apprifeel, and continued until the
28th of December 1792, at which date you
had completed the drawing over 2.304,769-'
dollars of the public money from Holland
into this country.
1 fey nothing, fir, of the incongruity of
that spirit of patriotism so feelingly alive
to the public fafety when clanger was re
mote and distant, and of the contrary
operation of the Jame J pit it, when de'eat
and misfortune having closed the campaign
of 1791, you were solemnly called upon
by Congrcfs. at that time infeffion, for your
financial aid and resources, to enable them
to augnijaiii%nd recruit the aimy for the
purpftle'of another campaign. You will
not aflign this as a farther evidence that
until the 23d nf last month " no call had
before been madei'pon you which rendered
it proper to exhibit -a general view of the
public monies and funds, or to (hew the
amount & situation of futh as were i//.ap
plied"—if you fiiot.ld let fa&s speak in
that review ot the cafe, which I now pre
sent to the public in lupport of my charge
against you-
St. Clair's defeat happened the 4th of
November 1791; it was announced to Con
gress by the Prelident some time in Decem
ber, I believe :—Congrefs immediately
took up the fubjeft, and having soon decid
ed as to the neceffitv of another campaign
and the confee ( uent augmentation of thr
army, they called upon you by an order of
the 19th of January 1792, to report to them
" J'ui h a -view of the ptiblic finances at
wot/Id enable them t« jt.dge whether any,
and what, additional Jnpplies were requi
site for the Jervice of the current year.'' 1 —
Von accoi dingly reported on the 23d of
the fame month, anil to that report fubioin
a {latement marked A, ihewi: g the expen
ditures made and to be made under all
the exiftigg eftahlifhrnents of the govern
ment from the beginning of the year 1791,
to the end of the year 1792, amounting to
7,082,197 dollars and frventy-four cents.
— You also subjoin to the fame report a
statement marked B, exhibiting a view of
ali the resources of the government dur
ing the aforefaid years 1791, and 1:92,
compelled of the following items, viz.
Dols. Cts.
Amount of import duties fer
the four quarters of 1791, 3,t~9,755 26
Duties on home made spirits
from the firft of July to
the lalt of December 150,000
Duties on imports lor the
year eltimated at 3,300,000
Duties on home made spirits
for the fame year estimat
ed at - - - 400. oco
Making a total netr revenue
for the year 1791, ami
1-92 of - - 7,029,755 26
And leaving the revenue in
arrear at the end ot 1792
the sum of - 52,441 74
7,082,197
In the body of your report, referring to
these statements, is the follow ing sentence,
" From tkeje statements will re/ult Jub
flanti ally the information which is d?fired
by the Honje of Reprejenlatives, as far as
it is now in the power of the Secretary to
gin! it."
It is farther worthy of observation that
in the cftiinate A, /hewing the expendi
tures of government, during the above pe
riod, you charge the full amount of inter
est which was payable both on the freign&c
domestic debt for the laid years of 1791
and 1792, amounting to 4,910,056 dollars
and 13 cents; precluding all apology of
having withheld a demand on government
for the payment of interest 011 the foreign
debt.
I fcavebeen thus particular in traringthe
foregoing circumstances, as well that the
public might fee for themselves that on
this solemn call and occalion, you wilfully
concealed From the view and knowledge
of the legiilature all information refpefting
the monies anting from the foreign loans,
deliberately alluring Congress that in the
llatements you had furnifhed, " would re
fill!ftbftar.tially all the information desired,
or which it was then in your power to
give"—as to contrafl them with the fol
lowing circumstances, which were extort
ed from you, and for thefirftiime brought
to light and to the knowledge of Congress
in your report on foreign'loans, madethe third clay of January, in the present
year, r 793.
In tliic report you acknowledge that you
began to draw bills on account of the mo
llies, arifmgfVam the foreign loans, on the
15th of December 1-90 ; and 011 the 31 it
of October, 1791, had drawn to the amount
of 1,005,526 dollars and 36 cents, of which
large sum it appears by your letter of the
13th of this month, no more than 361,391
dollar iad 34 cents had been paid into the
Treasury fomerime'm 1791, leaving 011 the
said 23d-of "Janti ary 1792, the date of yo;n
firft mentioned memorable report, a sum
ot 644,135 dollars and 2 cents in your
hands, unaccounted for and concealed from
public view.—But this is not all :itis w ell
known that in confeouence of your said
memorable report of the 23d of January
1792, a motion was produced in Congress
on the Bth of March following to refer it
to you t<> report " your opinion of the belt
mode of raising the additional supplies re
quilite for the eiifuing year.":—which, as
' ter violent couteft was carried in yourfa
vour by a majority of one or two votes,
including in that majority the votes ot al!
the Bank-Dire£tors. I fay nothing, by the
by.;, of the artificial neceffiry you had thus
created for additional supplies, and which
produced a reference to you to report real
not artificial means of supply—nor of the
fitnation of the Bank-Directors, the only
men in Gongrefs who knew a word oi
your fecrct proceedings refpectilig the
loans.
On the 16th of March 1*92, you report
ed to Gongrefs your plan for railing the ad
ditional supplies, in which stating the sum
of 52 s-950 dollarsas neceflary to beraifed,
yo'j fuirgeft three expedients—firft, to
dispose of the i'ltereft of the United States
in the bank of the United States—second -
ly, to borrow the money—or, thirdly, to
raise it by taxes. You presently condemn
the firft and second expedients, as unad
vifeable. and recommend the adoption oi
the third. You speak in this report with
ail the affected concern of a man who re
ally felt for theincreafed burthens on com
merce, and fay, " It wereimich tobe wifli
ed, thatfo early a resort to new demand:
on that class of citizens, could have been
avoided''—when at the moment of writ
ing. for all that appears to the contrary, the
aforefaid sum of 644.135.d011ars of the fo
reign monies, was still in the situation
above defcribed—for altho' in your letter
of the 1 3th of this month, yon f>y a far
ther payment was made to the Treasury
bf 327,436 dollars, in March 1792, yet as
you have notfpecified the day of the month
when it was paid, the prefupiption is. that
it was not paid until after the 1 6th—and
even if it had, it would itill leave a sum or
3r6,9 ''V dollars in the predicament I have
Hated.
To proceed: After your report for the
additional taxes and duties was m ule, they
were speedily adopted by Gongrefs, and a
lawfor the purpole, allowing for the delay
of palling it through both Houses, laid be
fore the Prelident, and approved by him
on the second of May 1792, at which time
you had 011 hand the lad mentioned sum
of 316,999 dollars, concealed from public
view.and not paid into the public treasury,
altho' the bills had been fold so long as the
31ft of October preceding, on a credit not
exceeding 90 days, besides a farther sum of
202,020 dollars and 20 cents on bills drawn
the 17th of April 1 "92, and fold 011 a credit
of fix months, m iking together 519.019
dollars—and the whole sum proposed to be
railed was 110 more than 525,000 dollars.—
It is further to be noticed that betweer
the aforefaid 17th of April and the 28th
day of December I ast, you continued tc
draw to the amount of o>te million of dol
lars, of which enormous sum, no more thar
50,000 dollars, on account of bills paid tc
Mr. Jefferfon, had been received at tht
treasury when the enquiry which extorter
the fecrct fromyou commenced, altho'yoti
now confefs that 605,883 dollars and 8 cent:
had then been received at the bank of the
United States and the ofHccs of difcoum
and deposit of Baltimore and New-York.
Neither should it be omitted, that in the
face of all the strong and pointed circum
stances I have stated, you did on the 25th
of May 1792, under the authority to bor
row, which was given by the aforefaid acl
for raifmg additional supplies, contra£l
with the bank of the United States for a
loan of 523,000 dollars at 5 per cent inter
i eft, and received on the firft of June,
100,000 dollars, on the firft of July 100,000,
n the firft of August 100,000, and on the
,rft of September too,ooo dollars. Altho'
n each of those respective days there was
. , n the treasury not less than four or five
* hundred thousand dollars of the public
noney, besides which the bank of the Uni
ted States, which you admit to have been
the sole agent in the sale of the bills for
the aforefaid one million of dollars, was
deriving all the benefit of credit which the
sales of bills to such an enormous amount
procured it.
These are the fa£ts and data on which
the charge against you, dated in the for
mer part of this letter, is founded, taken
from your own letters and reports now
before the public.
Numerous and important are the re
flections they produce. Various are the
interests which have been affected by them,
and deep the imprelfions they have made.
That I may not, however, become tedioir
I Ihall reserve until my next letter, ttioft
further animadver.'ions which the lubjeci
prel'ents, connected with another and ve
ry interesting view of it, and wliich ma;
podibly lead to the development oSJecrec j
not yet before the public.
Feb. 31. DECIUS.
For the National Gazette.
No 111.
■yyHILST we are aflumlng the merit ol
a glorious revolution, let us take cart
that we do not give posterity reason to re
gard our emancipation from Great Britaii:
rather as a revolution of men than aiprin
ciple i. As far as the situation of the Uni
ted States would admit, we have introdu
ced the form of the British government
united with the parade of a court, levees,
&c. and we are daily imitating her policj
and cuftomi. A funding system is one ol
the moll ruinous parts of the government
of that country which we have imitated.—
If in this manner we adopt and pursue
the principles of that corrupt court, we
Ihall inevitably create an inequality be
tween our citizens, which, in its excess,
every real patriot must regard as the great
eftof evils. Banks and public credit, in
all countries in which they have taken
place, have uniformly tended to increase
this evil. However they may enrich a few
or contribute to fjpport and cherilh thi
vanity and dangerous ambition of courts,
they contribute nothing to the happiness ol
the people.
National credit, unknown to the anci
ents, has become a general expedient with
modern statesmen, by which the property
and labour of pofterity x is mortgaged to fa
tisfy debts contracted by the present gene
ration— It may be allied, what claim ha 5
the present generation to the property and
labour of posterity ? On the full and im
partial examination of this question, every
mail of candor and common sense mull al
low, that the practice of mortgaging the
property of posterity, to discharge debt ;
contracted by the present generation,
is highly unjufl and criminal. I would
carry this idea still further and fay that the
present generation even to preserve it?
own exigence has no right to infringe on
the property of poiterity.
The following axioms must be regarded
as immutable truths, as they cannot be cal
led in question without sapping the foun
dation and subverting the unalterable de
crees of God refpedting man.
ift. The earth and the fruits thereof be
long to the living, by the gift of God.
3dly. The dead have neither power nor
1 right over the earth, nor the property
thereon, we have then only to determine
■ what length of time a law made by one
■ generation can continue in force, without
i violating the rights of their fucceflbrs.—
' This knowledge may be acquired with a
• considerable degree of precision by the bills
i of mortality.
• Let us suppose a whole generation of
1 men.to be borne on the fame day, to attain
: mature age on the fame day, and to die on
, the fame day, leaving a succeeding genera
; tion in the moment of attaining their ma
t ture age all together. Let the ripe age be
f fuppofedof2i years, and their period of
a life 34 years more, that being the average
t term given by the bills of mortality to per
-9 sons who have already attained 2 1 years
e of age : each successive generation would
- in this way come in and go off the stage at
n a fixed moment, as individuals do now:
h then we fay the earth belongs to each of
o these generations during its course, ful
ly and in their own right—the ad genera
n tion receives it clear of the debts and in
o cumbrances of the firft ; the third of the
e second, and so on—for if the tirft could
d charge it with a debt, then the earth
u would belong to the dead, and not to the
ts living, which is contrary to the axioms
le with which we set out : therefore, no ge
lt neration can contrail debts greater than
c. may be paid during the course of its own
le existence.
l- What is true of a generation all arriving
:h to felt government on the fame day, and
■- dying ail on the fame day, is true of those
ct in a constant course of decay ar.d renewal;
£t with this only difference, a generation
a coming in and going out entire, as in the
r- firft cafe, would have a right in the firft
e, year of their felf dominion, to con
o, tract a debt for 33 years—in the iotli
le for —in the 20th for 14 —and in the
o' 30th for 4. Whereas generations chang
as ing daily, by daily deaths and births, have
ve one constant term beginning at the date
lie of their contract, and ending when a 111a
li- jority of those of full age at that date (hall
en be dead. The length of that term may
or be ellimated from the tables of mortality,
as Take for instance, the table of Buffon,
he wherein he states 23,994 deatiis, and the
nt ages at which they happened. Suppose a
society in which 23,994. persons are born
cli every year, and live to the age stated in
ir- this table ; the conditions of that society
en will be as follow . — ift. It willconfift con
>w flantly of 617,703 persons of all ages—2dly.
Of those living at any one instant of time,
e- one half will be dead in 24 years, 8 mouths
he and 3 days—3dly. 10,(175 will arrive year
m, ly at the age of 2 r years complete—4thly.
le. It will conu.uitly have 348,417 persons of
all ages abov.? 2 r years—sthly. The half
of those of 21 years and upwards, living at
any one instant of time will be dead in 19
years. Then ry years is the term beyond
which neither t;ie representatives o£ a na
tion, nor even the whole nation itfelf as
sembled, can validly extend a debt.
Observing the practice in civil society,
jf reg'ilaring the descent of property ; it
is (aid whole communities (liould be equal
ly fubjeft to such regulations, and Ihould
be obligated to pay the debts &make good
the contracts of their predecefi'ars. The
observation would be proper, were the
: aij'es any way similar. An individual re
ceives property from his father or friend,
made fubjeft by the municipal laws of hi
c ountry to the payment of the debts of
:he former possessor. Altho' the legatee
may not in this cafe have been previously
acquainted with the condition of the be
.]ueil, yet having a full power to reject the
egacy, without putting himfelf in a worse
ituation than he was before, he, in fact,
becomes a partner to the contrast. The
ituation of a whole society is very differ
ent. On the demise of one generation,
:he succeeding generation take an uncon
litional pofTemon of the earth, as their na
ural right. The firfl is an adventitious
ight, wholly depending 011 the municipal
aws of a country. The second is a natu
-al riglit, derived immediately from God.
Altho' we may find no difficulty in bor
"owing money from the bankers and Jews
if Europe, to support any extravagant
['theme of the present generation, can it be
thought just to mortgage the labour ofpof-
Lerity to discharge debts thus contracted ?
An AMERICAN FARMER.
Feb. 2r.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Monday, Feb. 18.
A committee's report oa the poft-office
law was read and referred for to-mor
row—Several other reports on private pe
titions, and petitions were also read ; after
which a mefl'age was received from the se
nate, informing that they have concurred
in the bill to authorize a settlement of Jo
seph Henderfon's claims against the Uni
ted Stares—The ait for promoting the pro
s;refs of ufeful arts was reported duly en
rolled; also an ast repealing part of the
resolution of a late Congress relative to
the inhabitants of Post St. Vincennes ;
which were then signed by the Speaker. —
A meffiige was received from the President.
with a map of the territory of the United
States, oh the Potowmac, & the commifli
oners' report refpeftingthe fame: the house
were also notified of the President's having
signed and approved the act for enrolling
and licenling veifels employed in coafling,
and for fixing the compensation of Presi
dent and Vice-President of the United
States.—The House then, in committee of
the whole, took up the amendment": of
the feieft committee to the bill in addition
to the ast to eftablifli the judicial courts of
the United States, —After some debate,
the amendments were agreed to by the
committee, which were then reported,
and adopted by the House, except the
lalt.
Tuesday, Feb. 19.
The President's communication of ye
sterday, refpefting the Federal territory on
the Pocowmack, was read and laid 011 the
table—Several petitions were read and re
ferred ; among these was a petition from
the manufacturers of printing paper, pray
ing that the duty on certain descriptions of
imported printing paper may not be taken
off—laid on the table—a report on the pe
titions of certain Canada refugees was
read, and referred to a committee of the
whole on Saturday next. —A bill was re
ceived from the Senate, authorizing the
comptroller of the treasury to fettle the
claims of Lieut. Thomas Wilhart, which
had passed their house with an amend
ment —also, a mefl'age from the Senate
that they infill on some and recede from
others of their amendments to the bill for
regulatinginvalid pensions; In confequjnce
of a decition made yeiterday by the su
preme court, that slates are liable to be J'u
fd by individuals, a motion was made by
Mr. Sedgwick, that an article may be pro
posed to the State Legillatures, to be in
serted as an amendment to the Federal
Constitution, " that 110 slate fliall be liable
to be made a party defendant, in any of
the judicial courts, eftabliOied, or to be
established under the authority of the U
nited States, at the suit of any person or
perfoos, citizens or foreigners, or of any
body politic or corporate, whether within
or without the United States —laid on the
table—A ineffage was received from the
President, notifying the House, that an
appropriation would be necessary to de
fray the expence of holding a treaty with
the hollile Indian tribes—Mr. Giles pro
posed the following as a fubflitute for
the resolution refpefting the commissioners
of the linking fund, that " the commission
ers for jmrchafing the public debt be di
rected to report to the House a statement
of ali their proceedings uot heretofore
furnifhed". This occasioned Tome debate.
The yeas and nays being at length called
on the motion of Mr. Giles, it passed in
the affirmative, yeas 39, nays 22. —viz. —
Yeas.—Messrs. Aihe, Baldwin, Clark,-
Findley, Gerry, Giles, Gordon, Gregg,
Grifiin, Grove, Hartley, Heifter, Key,
Kittera, Lee, Macon, Madison, Mercer,
Moore, Muhlenberg, Murray, Niles, Page,
Parker, Schoonmaker, J. Smith, I. Smith,
J.Steele, Sumpter, Sylvester, Tredwell,
Tucker, Venable, White, Willis, Green
up, Milledge, Orr, Hindman.—39-
Nays.—Messrs. Ames, Barnwell, Ben-
Con,Boudinot, S. Bourne, B.Bourne,Day
ton, Fitzfinions, Gilman, Goodhue, Hill
houfe, Huger, Kitchel, Lavvrance, Lear
ned, Livermore, Sedgwick, Sturges,
Thatcher, Wadfworth, Ward, Leonard.
—22.
The message from the President of the
United States was then read, relative to
n treaty to be held with the hostile In
dians in the country north weft ofthe Ohio,
with the Secretary of war's estimate of the
probable expense—a committee wag ap
pointed to coniider the fame.
PHILADELPHIA.
February 23.
Tuesday evening last arrived at New-
Y'ork the ship Briiiol, in 54 days from Lon
don. The heads of intelligence extracted
10m papers, to the 25th of December, by
:his veilel are as follow.—The Court of
Vienna was preparingfor warwith France
with redoubled vigour, putting all their
regiments on the war establishment, to the
imount of 360,000 men, which were to be
ready for marching the beginning of De
cember; 72,000 men, of the Hun
garian army had arrived at or near Vienna
—The whole province of Austrian Gueld
res,with its capital,had surrendered to the
French gen. Miranda, the Austrian council
and their regular army of 3500 men having
retired before them—The French Nation
al Convention decreed on the 16th of De
cember, that all the members of the royal
family, Bourbons, and Capets, cxcept An
toinetta and her son (confined in the tem
ple) should quit the department of Paris in
24 hours after the trial of Louis Ihould be
tinifhed, and in three days, the territories
ofthe republic, and the countries in which
the French armies now are—an exception
was afterwards offered to this decree in
favour of M. Orleans (Egalite) the deci
sion on which was portponed for three
lays—Ou the 26th of December, the late
was to receive his final sentence from
:he Convention ; the event extremely
loiibtful, whether death or perpetual ban-
Ihment—General Montefquiou, who fled
from his. command of thr French army
near Geneva, had arrived in London.
The report of a committee of the House
of Representatives ofthe United States to
whom was Tome time iince referred that
paragraph of the President's speech which
relates to the transmission of newspapers
by the public mail, is in substance as fol
lows :—The poll master-general to be au
thorized to dire£t his deputies • o receive
fubferiptionsfor newfpapers;,and that eve
ry fubferiber, at the time of fubicribirig,
pay to the postmaster the amount of half a
year's postage on the paper which he en
gages to take, and half ofthe annual price
ofthe paper —that of the postage thus ad
vanced he retain one fourth of a cent for
each paper he will have to receive or de
liver, during the firft half year; and of the
price of the paper, twenty five per cent,
and remit the reficllie ofthe postage to the
general post oflice, The postmasters,
and not the fubferibers, to be refpon
lible to the printers: they (the postmasters)
receiving the 2 5 per cent, before mention
ed, as compensation for the above inten
ded agency in the business—The commit
tee also fuggefl the propriety of securing
the printers'money, by the fame bonds, of
the postmasters, by which postages are se
cured ; and that duplicate lilts of the fub
feribers ihould befent by the postmasters to
the general post office ; and that upon the
complaint of a printer against a poffmafier,
payment may be enforced, under tlie fame
bond that secures arrearages of postage of
letters to the office.
We hear from Newark, that a fubferip
tion-book for erecting bridges over the
Hackinfack and Paffaick rivers was open
ed at that town on the 14th instant. —
" Such was the avidity of the public to en
gage in this important undertaking, that
the number of shares (one hundred) allot
ted for ftibfcription in Newark, was in
stantly filled : the demand so far exceed
ing the proportion to be fubferibed that
thares have arifento 30 dollars advance."
The Senate of this state, on Tuesday
last, passed a resolution for the appoint
ment of a Federal Senator, by joint vote
of both houses. The resolution it is said,
will be concurred in by the House of Re
presentatives of Pennsylvania.
We hear from New-York that John
Watts is chosen a representative in the
Congress of the United States for the rii
ltri£t of New-York ; end T. Tredwell for
the diftrift of Long- Island.
•7>'§-K- Several Communications are
deferred to our next.Verses composed at LITTLE NECK,
Point Judith —Bth month, 1787 —By a
Young Lady of Rhode I/land.
T OST to youth's enthusiasm,
Loft to all poetic fire,
The mind mull be an empty chafrn
That thcfe Icenes do noc inspire.
Whatever can warm the imagination,
Fleafe the eye, or charm the ear,
In enchanting variation
Bounteous nature laviA'd here.
Her?, the vast, unbounded ocean
His majestic billows rolls,
Raising mod sublime emotion,
Lifts and awes the altonifh'd f®ul.
There, his waves with hope elated
Strive the upland heights to gain,
But, like human hope fiuftrated,
BelJow to the distant main.
Still with indignation fwe'ling
Calls his surges from afar,
Still repel'd and still repelling
Rages, in continual war.
Here the waters idly sporting
Fondly wooe the gralfy fliore,
And more calm recedes courting
Shun the ocean's stormy roar.
ence, more tranquil jovs pursuing
Pettiquamlcott (teals awav,
Oft h»s peaceful course renewing
Winds along with lweet delay.
Lo ! the raptured eye beguiling,
How the distant profpeft charms,
Hocks, hills, vallies, meadows smiling
Rife, secure from all alarms.
To these the Grove his shade opposing
Overhangs the peaceful flood,
Above, his towering branches clcfing,
He rivals each surrounding wood.
l'ious awe and sweet composure
This fequeirred inspires,
While from its secure inclofure
Every ruder thought retires.
Moss-grown rocks the:r heads ere&ing
Heighten still the pleasing gloom
And their circling flowers protedling
Bid them, unmolested, bloom.
Here, the birds, the fun-beams flying
Nature's inspirations sing j
Echo, to their voice replying,
Makes the neighbouring vallies ring.
This fair fprt, with partial pleasure,
Vetti%uan7fc6tt % & arms entwine,
Leaves, with pain his favourite treasure*
Parting, feels regret like mine.
Soon again thy waves returning
Shall embrace this blifsful (hore,
Fate, my fondeft wilhes spurning,
Bids me different scenes explore.
Follow still thy sweet employment !
Wave, ye woods, and ocean roar !
Ye /hall give sublime enjoyment
When your Emma is no more 1
\_The redder toill observe, the following i
from a London Ministerial print. /!no
thcr account, from a more impartial quar
ter,fhall be given in a future paper.
Brief view of the Trial of Mr. Paine, be
fore Lord Kenyon and a Special Jurj
at Guild-Hall, Tuesday Dec. 18, 1792
The King againfl Thomas Paine.
THIS was an information filed ex ojji
do by the Attorney-General, againfl
Thomas Paine, author of the Rights 01
Man, for publishing in the second part o:
that work a scandalous libel upon the con
flituticn, laws, and government of Eng
land.
Mr. Percival, jun. Counsel for the
Crow", penned the pleadings.
TheAttorney-General then solicited the
moll feriout attention of the jury, to what
he termed a clear, plain, and indisputable
cafe, that he should lay before them, and
which referred to one of the mod seditious,
wicked, and dangerous libels, that ever is
sued from the prtfs. It was contained in
a pamphlet of which the defendant was
the avowed author, called the second part
of the Rights ps Man. The pernicious
consequences that bad flowed from th<
publication of this work, rendered it unnc.
cefTary for him to occupy much of tht
time of the Couit; and in the firlt place, il
■was a duty he owed to himfelf and the
public, to contradict a rumour that hac
been circulated, that the present profecu
tion did not correspond with his private
judgment.— Such a rumor was totally def
titute of truth, for he (hould think he
ought to be expelled from society, and
branded as the worlt of men, if he had not
molt cordially brought the defendant be
fore the court; the Attorney-General took
notice ofthe uncommon pains that had been
taken to eiiftribute the libellous pamphlet
throughout the nation. It was not con
fined to the judicious reader, whose judg
ment would refute its fallacious and alarm
ing do&rine as he went along in the peru
sal, but it was sent to all persons : to the
poor ignorant mechanic ; to the credulous
and uninformed of the lowest order; even
the sweet-meats of children were wrapped
up in it. It was the offspring of sedition,
artifice and cunning, and calculated not tc
inform the judgment upon any principa
topic, but to inflame the paflions, to with
draw the allegiance of the people fronr
their sovereign, and to induce them to o
verturn the constitution. The style anc
rompofition of it evidently proved, thai
his was the object of its author, for il
:ontained no reasoning, but consisted o
nothing but daring afiertions, unfoundec
descriptions, and falfe dogma. The offen
res he imputed to the defendant by thi:
ibel were of the mo!t serious nature. H<
mputed to him a deliberate intention tc
vilify the whole constitution of this coun
:ry, as fettled and explained at the revo
ution, and to eradicate that enthiifiaftu
love the people had always dfcovered foi
it. He charged him also with represent
ing the Legislature of this country to be ai
usurpation, and that the laws were foundei
on their usurped authority. The defend
ant had in truth said, that the laws wen
net binding, and of course that the peoph
were a lawless banditti.
The Attorney-General then read fix 01
feren paragraphs from the pamphlet to the
jury, upon which he animadverted wit!
great ability : he dwelt a long time upor
that paragraph, in which Mr. Paine call:
the Bill of Rights a bill of wrongs and in
lults. He alio read a letter sent by the
defendant to him [the Attorney-General"
upon the present prosecution. This let
ter is dated froin Paris, and in it Mr.
Paine avows himftlf the author of the
Rights of Man. In the concluding part:
of this letter are several scandalous anc
treasonable refle&ions on his present Ma
jefty and his royal sons. Mr Attorney
General dwelt upon this part of the lettei
with great emotion and indignation, whicl
inspired every person in Court with thi
feeling of affection and loyalty to theii
sovereign, and indignation against his ca
lumniators. He added many other ob
fervations, and concluded a moll admira
Lie speech.
Several witnefies were called, who pro
ved the hand writing of the defendant, anc
that he was the author of the pamphlet ir
question. One of the witnesses laid tha'
Mr. Paine came to give diredtions abou l
printing it at one time while he was in <
state of intoxication : that when he wa:
drunk, his favorite fubjeft was religion
that he exprefled a great dislike to thi
Diflenters, whom heconfidered as a set c:
hypocrites.
Mr. Erfkine began an admirable de
fence for Mr. Paine, and declared, thai
his feelings and emotions were as great a;
those manifefltd by the attorney-general
when he heard the concluding part of the
letter dated from Paris read. No mar
felt a greater portion of loyalty for the
king, nor affedion for his royal sons, than
he did, but this (hould not detach him ftom
the duty he owed to his client. The
fruits of a fair and impartial trial were a
proof of the excellency of a constitution
and a good government, and it would be a
foul (lain upon the Britilh constitution il
the defendant had reason to fay that he
would not be defended upon his trial in
this country. Mr. Erfkine said that he
himfelf had been calumniated by ignorant
er ill disposed persons for becoming the ad
vocate for the defendant, although the ho
nor and integrity of the bar would be loft,
if counsel aftumed the power of prejudi
cing, and refufed to (land between the
crown and an accused fubjeft. Thank
God that was not the oafe in this court.
With refpeft to the letter alluded to, al
though he abhorred the concluding part
of it, yet there were truths in it that no
man could deny ; but this letter had no
thing to do with the charge in e;ueftion.
The strong ground upon which he should
contcnd, that Mr. Pa'nc ought not to be
found guilty, was, that there t xifted no e
vidence of any intention on his part to oc
casion an infurreftion, or to induce the
people lo alienate their affections from
their sovereign. His defence of Mr. Paine
was founded upon the principles of the li
berty of the press and the right of free dis
cussions of all political fubjedls, a right
which the Britiih constitution gave to eve
ry man, provided they acted bsna fide, or,
in other words, contemplated the happi
ness, and not the miseries of the people.
Mr. Erlkine dwelt upon this point a con
siderable time, and went into a long and
mod able argument to prove that the de
fendant's pamphlets were provoked by Mr.
Burke's attack upon the French revoluti
on, and not intended to fcduee particular
persons from their allegiance, but ought
merely to be conCdered as an appeal to
the universal reason of mankind upon the
defcfts and advantages of different forms of
government.
The jury found the defendant guilty.
Some few persons hifTed at the verdi£k,
who were immediately taken into cuflo
dy.
The court was more crowded than it has
been known for a number of years ; and
when the trial w?s over, some of the peo
ple took off the horses from Mr. Er/kine's
carriage, and drew him to his house in
Serjeant's Inn.
The following paragtaph appeared in th?
Albany Gazette of January ;8.
" Some complaints have of late, as well
as heretofore, been heard from the feat of
government, rcfpe&ing certain parts of the
pod-office law—but from no other quarter,
except in an indance or two, an echo from
some one of the southern Hates. In this
part of the Union, its good effe£ls are very
confpicuous—for waving the consideration
of nevi fpapers coming to hand with much
more regularity than formerly, already are
the establishments of the pod-office extend
ed as far as Whiteftown, to the well ; and
from thence letters, ne\rfp?.pers, See. are
conveyed, by regular Hated private polls,
thro' all the Genefee settlements, to Nia
gara, the capital of Upper Canada—To
the northward, the pod office is ellablilh
ed at Burlington, on Lake Champlain, in
the (late of Vermont, where it communi
cates with the edablifhed pod offices at
Montreal, Quebec, and other parts of the
provinces of Lower Canada- Thu3, thro'
the medium of the pod office, on its pre
sent edablifhment, not only letters and
packages, but newspapers, are transmitted
with fafety and expedition to almodeverv
quartc of this extensive continent.—Will
then the jiod office law be complained of,
because a few printers at the feat of go
vernment cannot fend their papers thro'
the continent /ret of expcnce ?—ls this a
reasonable requed, when the cit-zens of
every other part of America, pay to pri
vate polls a greater sum for pollage than is
demanded by the poll office law?"
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.
FR BPUARY T797.
D, li 1 Bar. iTber. IV.nl. IVe atier
Txefdaj, 12. ; 29. 7 20 M. 0. Snoto.
2 20. < 28 dn. Cloudy.
Wtdnejttuy, 13. 7 29. 4 21 ... vv. c7oud~
20. " 51 Ho. Snrtc.
lourjdayi 14. ; 29. 4 27 VV . Cloudy.
2 20. r do. Fair.
trMy, 15. 7 30. li ~-> W
? 3 ( "* 1 4 0 W. Haz.ey t
Utiurdey, ib. 7 30. »i' 2g M.t. c^udy,
? 3". 1 42 S. E. do.
o)t«jjy,o)t«jjy, j 7 . 7 20. t' 44 1.1,,,. R UI „.
2 29. ( 48 S. Rair.
Mummy, »8. , 30. c 39 \v. l/ou.Cy
2 30. ] 49 | do. Fair.
P R I C F. CURRENT.
\ Dollars. Cents.
/iSHES, pot per ton uod/oujd
-» pearl ditto 134 c! to 140 c!
Bacon, Hitches per lb 8c
flioulders do 7 C
Beef', Bolton per barrel 7d to 8d
Country do b&tojA
Beer, American in bottles
including bottles per tloz. id 14c
ditto per barrel 41!
Bees wax per lb 26c 28c
Brandy, Coniac per gal 90C looc
common do 82c
Butterinkegs per lb 12c 13c
Cheese, Country per lb 8c 10c
Englilh , 9 c
Chocolate 18c 20c
Coal. per bu.licl 20c 22c
Codtifh per cwt 3d 50c
Coifee per Ib 16c iSc
Copperas per cwt id 6-c
Cordage, American per cwt 7d 6ic 8d
Cotton per lb 26c. 36c
flax per lb 8c 10c
Flaxfeed per hlid. 9 d
Flour, Superfine per barrel 5d 51c
Common s<| j 3 - c
Bur-midlings, bed 4d 50c
Meal Indian 3d [0C
R ye, do 3d 33c
Gin, Holland per cafe 4cl 40c
— per gallon Bgc 87c
Ginseng, 2cc 24c
Gunpowder, Fine glazed per q c 4>l
Grain, Barley perbulhel id 14c
Best (helled per bufli. 2 d 67c
Buckwheat per bufliel 27c
Indian corn 6c c
Jersey, do 63c
Oats 23c
Rye 60c
| Wheat rd , 3c
Haras per lb 9c
Hemp, imported per ton nod i4(d 67c
American per lb 4c 5c
Hides, raw per lb .yc 11c
Hops 27c
Honey per lb 8c
Indigo, Carolina per lb id id 20c
French ulaoc id 53c
Iron, Bar per ton 93d
Catlings per cwt 3d 4d
Nail-rods per ton tied 11 id
P'2 24d 26d67C
' Sheet 173 d 33c
Trons, fad 33c
Lard, hogs per lb 10c tic
Leather, foal per lb 14c 17c 20c
Myrtle wax per lb 12c
Molafles per gallon 53c
Mustard, flower, in bot. per doz id 20c
second quality, per doz 87c
Nails, 8d rod I'd and 2od per lb 10c
Oil, Linseed per gallon o-c
Olive " 87c
per cafe 4d scl
Tepper per lb 38c
Pimento iße 19c
Pitch per bbl 2d 25c
Porter per calk 6d
London per doz id 60c
——Anier. bot. inclu. id 4c td (>7<l
Pork, Burlington, per bbl iod ("7c ml
Lower county 811
Carolina 9<l
Rice per cwt 2d 89c
Rum, Antigna per jal i,i
BaHiadoes 87c
Country, N.E. 6;c 67c
Jamaica id lO c
Saltpetre per cwt i2»l
Salt, Allum, per bu(h 53c
Cadiz joe
Lilbon 5jG
Liverpool 510
Snake root per lb 27c
Snuff, per doz. bottles >jd ;d 60c
per lb 33c 40c
Soap, Brown per ib 8c
White. 9 c
Starch per lb -c
Havannah, white, per lb 14c
Brown i,c 140
Muscovado per cwt 13d ijd
Lump per lb 24c
Loai', lingle refined, 25c
double ditto,
Tallow, refined, per lb "9c
rar, New Jersey 24 gal per bbl id 20c
Carolina, 32 gal ' id 33c id 67c
Tea, Hyson per lb 93c rd 28c
Souchong jOC 9^
Boliea 3JC 3 j c
Tobacco, James River, best 3 d 60c 73c
Inferior 3d -'3c
Old 4d 67c
Rappahannock 3d 33c
Coloured Maryland jd 33c Bft
Dark 2d 40c
Long-leaf 2d 40c
Eaftern-Ihore "d 2d 23c
Carolina, new 2d 7c 3d
Old 3d 33c
Turpenrine per hbl ul 6-c'jil
Wine, Madeira,p. P. i7fd 200 d 2261! (>~c
Lilbon , iSjdj'c
Tenet ilFe per gal 67c
Sherry id toe.
THREE POUNDS REWARD.
RUN A WAV from the fnbfcriber, on Sun
day rhe 73th of January, an apprentice
lad 10 the blacklmiths business, named |ohn Lay
ton, about eighteen years of a<?e, five feet three
or tour inches h gh, had on when he went Jiwav,
a half worn fn per fine brown coat, a (hort drab
furtout , baft ca(Timer breeches a little faded,
worftM flocking", his (hoes tird with black wor
ded brings he is remarkably fond of li
quor, is verv talkative when a little intoxicated,
and lpeaks with a coarse strong voice ; wheevc.*
apprehends said apprentice and secures him.fbn;!
have the above reward, and if brought home, rea
sonable charges paid.
ISAAC WOODLAND.
Georgetown, Kent county, Cross Roads, Ma
ryland Feb-4, 1793. law.Sw"
Those gentlemen, in different parts of the
Union, who hold
SUBSCRIPTION PAPERS FOR TH"
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER,
Are requested to make returns of the lubfcu
b?rs' names as soon as convenient—
MeflVs. the Printers, who have, at r*y
lequeft, publiftied the propofais, will rleafe to fer 5
in their refpettive accounts. JOHN CAREY,
No. 26, Pear-Street, Philadelphia.
at the printing ojficc, a few cop':: t
f the Rr(l Dolumz of the National Gazette.
PRINTED BY
C HILDS and S W A INT,
AT THEIR OFFTCR NOi «OQ, Hirs.STM »7>
FIFTH-STRItfT .»
'Hit. API! f