Nu "vf b . 43 of Vol. If.]
Spec* of Kks a int on the Britijh War,
:> t' ■■ ' y ui -..ventioH of trance, on
Tot!id-: uiry i.
[Tranfl <d in-m a French Paper* j
[Continued from our lad, and concluded.]
IT io net witli the i ich. the prirfts, or the
lords that Pitt will fit out the fleet & fill
up the army. But, as 1 have bt :"oie (aid,
1 fe.ir that he will dispose the nation to
war. We mult then undeceive thein ; and
if Pitt fends a fleet to sea, i,s a prelude to
fighting, why might not a French commo
dore atldrefs the following speech to the
English nation ?
«'Enjliflimen, the men who have over
thrown the defpotifni of their king, whole
Victorious arms have driven from their
Country the armies of two of the great
eft military powers ot Europe, are flil!
compelled to li^bit in order to d . end th-. .1
liberty. You ought at least to. know what
insults yon have to revenge. Kavfe the
French infringed upon any territory of
yours ; have they molelled yoyr trade, in
sulted your flag, or betrayed the rights of
hospitality towards your citizen'
Throughout the vast extent of your pof
feflions have you any complaint to make
agamft the agents of our republic ? No ;
and if you have not been deceived, no af
front or motive of this fort can in
yo'ir eyes the war you are now dragged
into : and yet your blood and ours is to ba
mutually f:-d on those waves over which
we ought to past in quiet, to enrich our
difo rent countric-.. on which we ought to
embrace like br thers, nd extend 'the
' hand of kind relief! The French have de
clared that 11 men are born free and e
qual the end and deiign of the laws
ought to be toenfure the enjoyment of li
berty ami equaiii v, which tlicy have pro
nounced to be the rights of man. People
of England, this i: the fin ot the French
nation; this combined again ft them
Icrio-s nobles, and priefls ; for those men
wifat'o a. knowledge no such thing as e
qualily. but a i'i' eal to ? out '
fuences—Would you make war upon them
because they have proclaimed your rights
and their own ? It is a tact, that t.ie cuf
fufion of these truths has made those
tremble who every where oppress and un
dervalue their fellow-creatures, and en
joy with an unfympathizing heart, in the
bosom of wealth, those delicacics of life,
the toil and misery of fupplymg which bears
upon the shoulders ot those they call the
people. But will you, who are now prepa
ring to fight us, you whose courage and
itrength isdeltined to be fnbfervient to the
passions of pride & avarice, content to serve
th" haughty men who hold you 111 dik.ain
answer, what is your lot ? What are your
hopes, and what advantages will you reap
from war, whether victory terminates
with you or with us ?—We will tell you :
If the French fail in their efforts for tree
dom, liberty is forever banished from Eu
rope, and perhaps from this globe-ifwe
triumph, you are free ; luice it is for the
rights of man th t we are fi 2 ht.ng ; and if
you are men, our victories will be yoms.
Now, will you light ? Speak :-are you
friends or enemie .
Perhios this speech, were it heaid by
the whole Eniiilh nation, would termi
nate our anxiety, and would make an ally
of the nation that n»w menaces our liber
ty. The truths which I utter are diflenn
nated among all the enlightened spirits of
En-land. Let the p>'. eminent dread an
explosion, end the events of the war will
molt certainly accelerate it.—This obser
vation bttngs me back to myfubjeci.
In taking flicii a view of aliairs, i am
more and more confirmed in myfirfl opin
ion of the secret designs ot the English mi
niftrv. Pitt is wife and has ability, lie
withes to prcferve the government from
the inevitable conferences of a revolution.
He at least hopes, by his preparations and
negotiations, to prevent the people from
perceiving his real object, by keeping up
the idea of a war, upon which, however,
he will not finally determine, till lie has
thoroughly awakened the ancient ammo
-1 iity of "the English against us, and has
gained over, by his intrigues, a diforganiz
ins party in France. lam .of opinion thai
their minister deceives himfeU egregioufly
it, both ends that he proposes, particularly
in re-ard to *:s. lie judges of our counti)
by his own. France, in a state of liberty,
cannot be influenced by tear ; file will re
ceive no law but from herfelt. One oi
two men govern England : Here, the pub
lie opinion only governs. In r.ngland the
contention for governing is between par
ties ; in France, the contention is for the
approbation of the people. In England,
By P. FRENE AU: Publijhed Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
WEDNESDAY, March 27, 1793.
the ministry rules the nation ; here, they
are only iu agents. Pitt knows of no go
vernment except under his own authority.
In France, the government follows the
will of the nation. I will endeavour to
undeceive this man, whose errors may be
come at this time so ruinous to the world.
Let him attend to me, and underftancl that
there is no refemblauce between a country
that fails in a pursuit of liberty, and such a
country as France, where liberty has beam
ed forth for the firft time, free of aristoc
racy, and pure as virtue and truth itfelf.
He should know, that you do not fear
kings, and that if even you fuffer them to
remain, you will not enter into any trea
ties with them except ratified by their re
ipuiii rations. He fliouJd be little to
under Hand tliht you can Jive in peace with
kings, but can only enter into bonds ol
iinternal friendlhip with nations. He
[lioulct be made •to understand, that
France will oniy*ake peace upon condi
ions honorable to herfelf, and will secure
:he independence ins the nations, whose
voke we have broken—He nnift learn,
hat v eare not afraid of war, and that the
irft cannon ball fired upon the ocean, will
>e tlie signal to set free Holland. Spain, &
America; an attempt which is by no
neans above our national courage and our
ncans, because the interests of those nati
are in our favour, and it is their secret
vifh tint France {hould now exert herfelf
or their deliverance.
He ought finally to be informed, that
he friends of anarchy, tools to a govei n
nent that has corrupted Europe, are ai
eady fallen into contempt, that their
ibettors will be in the fame situation in a
liort time, and 1 hat our present agitations
efemble those raised by a tempest on the
jcean. The furface only is moved, but
hegreat body of waters is tranquil.
I will now examine intotheconfequenc
?s of the war with which we are threat
filed ; and will take it for granted that a
vnr \virh Koala lid w ill involve n* a. 97-n
---•ral contest with all the maritime powers
il Europe. However true this polition
nay be, it ought not to alarm us; it is on: -
ntereft that in such a lirnggle there (hould
ie no neutrals; but if we are forced into
t, I propose that we should ifl'ue a general
irodamation, addrefl'ed to every people,
' that in a war of kings against human na
ure, we can only know friends and ene
nics."—Policy would advise such a deter
mination, apparently desperate ; but I will
jive my reafonsfor it
England is a power so preponderating in
commerce and navigation, that other nati
ons are in a certain degree only her mer
cantile fatlors ; France, indeed, only so
faf as refpecls her internal industry and
wealth procured therefrom ; but Spain,
Portugal, and Holland, and the small re
publics of Italy, trade upon the funds and
profits of English industry ; and the trea
sures of the new world and those ot A(ia
are in the mean time tributaries to the ac
tive industry of the merchants and manu
fa£turers of that nation. Denmark, Swe
den, and Rnflia have an apparent staple of
commerce in naval ftorcs, which are almost
peculiar to them. But this staple is al
ways rated to the height ot its vjlue by the
Englilii dealers and brokers; and there is
no where to be found any lucrative branch
of trade which has not been already ex
plored and exhausted, by the efforts ol a
people profeflcdly mercantile.
I know that it is a bold undertaking, on
ly to attempt to declare war against a host
of enemies; but if such a determination
holds forth great d ingers, it alio disclose:.
great refourccs. If the question was, to
attack a combination of nations, the pro
portion would be weak and not worth dif
cufling ; but in such a war the people of
those nations will be only the passive in
ftrunient, and as they will experience los
ses without any indemnification, it will be
the more easy to convince them that it is
unjust, and their inclinations to oppose us
will finally be a matter of triumph. Hard
ly have we estimated the advantages of
those nations who wage war in a collefr
ed mass, forthemfelves, and for the com
mon cause. It would be profitable, how
ever, to recollect at this instant, when all
Europe threatens us with a general war,
what have been the etfetls of the efforts of
even feeble nations, but resolved and deter
mined (as we are) to live free or die.
What resources of strength have they
drawn forth in circumstances nearly simi
lar ! The brave resistance of the Athenians,
whose territory did not equal the fmallelt
of our departments in extent or popula
ti®n, to a terrible war which theyfupport-
Ed 38 years againfl all theneighbouringna
tions, as fatal to all Greece as to the Athe
nians themselves, is the noblell monument
lh'-:t history lias handed down to 11s of the
courage,the bravery, and the genius of
man. It is also a proof of what thegeni
us of liberty is capable of performing.
A more recent example, however, pre
sents itfelf, that of the Hollanders (haking
off the yoke of Philip the second. " A
small corner of earth (fays Voltaire) al
most drowned in the seas, which fubfilted
only by the herringfifliery, became a for
midable power, made head againfl Philip
Che second, and deprived liis fucceflors of
ilmoft all their pofleffions in the East Indi
?s ; and lias at length terminated its career
i>y givHig protection to its enemies— 11 Such
;reat effects attended the persecutions of
Philip. But the end of our revolution
,vill be the effect of the persecutions of
entire Europe, altlio 1 the completion of it
>■ ill cod 11s millions. —Well, it war im
>overi(hes 11s, it will effect a change of
"aimers; and will accommodate them to
he fj.irit of the revolution ; a maritime
aar will, instead of extending our fyllem
liro' Europe, recall our forces to the de
ence of our frontiers. There we fliall
jc invincible. And if Spain, England,
uul Holland, invite usinto Alia andAineri-
M—we will vigorously force our expediti
ns to those rich countries, and will call to
aind thai it was the Pope who gov: Amer
a to Spain ■'
If we consider the vatl field which this
>kl idea liys open to the courage and ac
ivity of our sailors, the immenl'e refourc
: vwhich it presents : it we fix our atten
:ion upon the multitude ot richly-laden
,eflels, that will fall a prey to our cruisers;
f we includein this ourmaritime war the
mmenfe number of brave men, who will
lock into us from all Europe, to acceler
e our expeditions ; if our nation (whole
oreign commerce ought to be prohibited
lie moment the war begins) directs its
''i' l Ito lIHVLI 1 t <!C t'l ~, ill
:oiifon.incc with thefpirit of the govern
ment : if we attack at the fame inflant
'or a maritime warought to be eflentialljr
jifentive) the richelt pofl'elfions of Spain,
Holland, Portugal, and England, then we
hail fee that tlirfe powers, difcour.vged
iviththeir lofles, and their rt'fources dryetl
,ip, will begin to find that we have (truck
it he root of their treafUres.
The credit of England rests upon ficti
cious wealth The real riches of that na
jon are scattered over the whole globe,
md are from their nature moveables. As
confined to her territory, the public estate
jf England lies almost wholly in her bank,
and the w hole flruiture isfirpported by the
wonderful activity of their maritime com
merce. Asia, Portugal, and Spain are her
moll advantageous markets, and where
they find a vent for the products of En
jlilh industry. Opening tliefe countries
lotlie whole world will be,in effeit, (hut
ting them agaiult England.
We 11111(1 attack Lifbort and Brafil, and
lend an auxiliary army to Tippoo Sultan !
Portugal can do nothing, in her own de
fence. A naval tore#, after penetrating
the Tagiis, and laying the country under
contribution, and after having destroyed
their magazines and (tores, would tinifli
ihe career of success by taking and liberat
ing Brafil. An expeditiondireffed againfl
the Englifli Indies would equally menace
the Dutch settlements, the Cape of Good
Hope, Batavia, the I(land of Ceylon &c.
We (hould find nothing there to oppose us
but men enervated by luxury, and who
would tremble before the soldiers of liber
ty—As to Spain, her inhabitants carry in
their breads a native dignity of fonl which
entitles them to freedom, so that in Eu
rope they will make but a feeble (land in
defence of the Bourbons ; In America,
the transatlantic Spaniard calls for Our af
fiOance, and by marching into the heart of
Mexico we (hall give a lesion of caution to
England ; for, such a holt of enemies as
are combining againfl us offer this advan
tage, that each will be compelled vigor
ously to guard his own pofleffions and we
fliall never have bu r one of them to fight
at the fame time. The Italian republics
will furnifli us with many rich prizes at
sea, the loss of which 11111 ft fall chiefly up
on the Englifli commerce, by reason of the
far greater part of their cargoes being al
ways the property of the London mer
chants. The forces of those little dates,
even including Portugal, are trivial, and
may by falling into our hands, serve to re
cruit our own. England, Spain, Holland,
and Ruflla present to our view a numer
ous naval force, but I fee no two of them
[Total No. 14.7. j
that can a£t in union, except perhaps En
gland and Russia. Spain will be taken hi*
in defending her numerous foreign poflef
lions. If we push the war vigorouflv into
Zealand, we fliall at once deprive thettadt
liolder of his great resource of naval sup
plies ; and the patriots of Hoiland who
have long been invitingus to their aid, v> ill
when supported by our arms, foou show
theinfelves, to the terror of the ariitocra
tic party.
If we knew how to direst a maritime
war with (kill, it will amply indemnify lis
for the expellee of wars by land, and per
haps like the Athenians and the Holland
ers, France, immensely powerful as (lie is
in her land armies, will nevertheless owe
the ellablifliment of her liberty to the \ic
tories of her naval forccs.
All the French poffefiions beyond fca are
at this inlla.a only a dead weight to the
parent country ; which drain our treasures
and give us no equivalent. If England
fliould capture them, the prizes taken from
them in consequence will be very lucra
tive ; and the emancipation of Mexico
cannot be set in competition w it.li the Iof;
of a few little islands. But there is no
doubt but the colonies will be vigorously
defended, and it is even polljble that our
enemies will fail in their attempts 011 that
quarter; a military spirit has discovered it
felf there in consequence of their internal
civil wars during our revolution, which
with the forces that have been recently
sent from France for their support, w ill
soon put them 011 a retyeitable footing of
defence. I s.m of opinion that all partic
among them will re-unite, in order to re
main French, and that they will fei/.e upon
the occalion to prove their attachment to
their country. But if they fliould provt
ungrateful children, they neither merit 0111
exertions to save them, nor would they be
cause of much regret, if loil. In one word,
if England becomes miflrefs of our colo
nies, the will be under a necefiity of vigilant
ly guarding them, at an expence that wiH
>reatly weaken ber ; while mm' ,»wu iorcr
being released from an attention to them,
will be at our disposal to seek ample com
pensation elsewhere.
Supposing our enemies fliould invade oiir
coast, can we have a doubt but that 0111
brave guardacoalfs will repell them ? F.nr -
land threatened with an invalion, and h.i
ving nothing to protect her but her fleet,
will be under a necefiity of retaining a
great part of that fleet and her land furies
for her own immediate fafety. Georj
will be under conllant apprehentions oi a
vilit from the friends of the rights of man.
But the Ruffians-*---and will not the Turks
give the Rufiians foine cause of disquiet
and will not the Swedes, the only people
that seem to take 11s by the hand, make
some effort to iuterrupt the progress of i!,«
barbarians that menace our liberty ! Let
that be as it may,both Rufiians and Dutch
men, confederated, would be effectually
flopped even in the sea pom of England,
by our very fifliihg boats, who are always
in readiness to carry over the channel o-ie
hundred thousand i'reachmen ; and it is.
perhaps, by some such expedition, w t fliali
terminate our quarrel with the governing
powers of England, and upon the rmns 01
the tower of London, sign with the undr
ceived people of that country, a treaty
that fliall fettle the future defUiiy of both
nations, and lay a foundation lor the li
berty of the whole world.
From all that I have said result feterSl
general considerations, upon whieh I will
lieg your attention. Always well ground
ed in your principles, let it be your pru
dent care not to provoke a war, but at the
fame time, as remote from all fear, we
fliould hold twrfelves determined to repel
every unjust aggreflion. lluis {had the*
war with which we arc threatened be fa
tal to those who have provoked it, w bile
we prepare to support a vigorous confiiA
with England and her allies—ln this view
I propose that the Convention flicuid pals
the following decree.
1 Let the minister of the marine ifliie
orders inflantly, thro' all onr ports, to (it
out 30 (hips of war and 20 frigates, lo be
provided with fix months stores ot provisi
on, and water for four months. 2. Let or
ders be issued for building 25 fail of the
line, sos 100 guns, 6of So, 1 4 of 1, ci
ther in the ports of war or commerce. 3.
Let the executive council take the molt
prompt measures for eilablifhiiig a ("effici
ent force for guardrn ■, t lie coalls, and to
pot in motion, the ensuing tyring, 100 b:u
talions in the maritime departments, 01-
those adjacent to the fca. 4. 'file com
mittee of war fliall lix open the leatl burdenfome means of preparing tb's force
which ihuii be particularly deliined to fa
vour the maritime expeditions. 5. The
committee of the marine/hall present llate
ments and el timates of the expences necef
faryfor carrying these plans iiiio execution.
6. The diplomatic committee fliall make
a report 0:1 the tituatiou of the feverat a
ge its of the republic, in governments
where they (till remain. 7. The execu
tive council (hall lay btfore tils Conventi
on a memorial 011 the respective interests
of the Englnh and French nations, and
this memorial, after being, approved by
the Convention shall be addressed in the
name of the French people to the people
England. 8. The coinmifEoners that lhall
be sent to the maritime departments fliall
ina.ve an enumeration of the persons capa
ble of serving the republic in the naval e
ftablifhment,and shall allure the inhabitant
of the coalls, and the teamen, that a large
fliare of the prizes taken from the enemy
fliall devolve upon them. 9. The com
mittees of war, finances, the colonies the
marine, the diplomatic, and of the conlti-
Cution, fliall each of them name three of
their members, . whu lhall meet together
infome dated place under the name of the
committee of general defence. This com
mittee lhall be con (lan tly employed, in
connexion with the miniflers, in forming
such plans as the approaching campaign
and the present posture of affairs lhall re
quire, and their reports fliall always be the
order of the day."
M. Kerfaint hiving concluded, it waspro
pofed that the last article Ihould be imme
diately put to vote. Char'ier and Thuriott
opposed this motion : they thought that
establishing a committee of external fafe
ty would weaken the responsibility of the
minilters. Marat said, he wanted more
time to reflect on the matter. Robaud&
Rouyer dwelt much on the topic of gen
eral fafety, and the necessity of instantly
forming a powerful naval force. The lat
ter observed that even now 15 English fliips
of war were ready to set fail.
The last article proposed by M. Kerfaint
was then decreed.
FOREIGN ADVICES.
Amjlerdam, Jan. 8. The last letters from
Newrembourg, bring advice, that the
Prince of Saxe Cobourg, commander in
chief of the Austrian army, fixed his head
quarters at that place, whitfl 38,000 iinpe
rialifts, of which 12,000 were cavalry, pas
sed by 011 their inarch to the Rhine.
Dublin, Jan. 19. Yesterday evening ar
rived a mail, dated London, January 15. —
It brings intelligence that the Dutch have
laid the environs of Bois le Due tinder wa
ter ; that the inhabitants of the provinces
of Utrecht,and Friefland having displayed
the French cockade, troops had been sent
to those places to prevent tumults.
The Prince of Caftlecicula, now Neapo
litan ambaflador at London, has received
orders from his Sovereign, the king of the
two Sicilies, to take his departure to Paris,
in consequence of being appointed Ambas
sador to the republic of France.
London, Jan. ij. The three manly and
honorable men, who divided against a
war in a court of common council of Lon
don, have a right to be groud ; we pro
phecy, that in three months from this
time they will receive the thanks of that
very common council.
There are 110 fewer than two hundred
indictments prepared by the crown officers
to be presented to the grand juries
throughout the kingdom, for libels and
seditious words. They are of all kinds,
some against newspapers, some againfl
pamphlets, and hand bills. &c. and of the
seditious words some were uttered from
the pulpit and some in the ale-houses, in
moments of jollity and inebriation. On
the slightest computation, the trial of these
indictments in law cods, and Ihe value of
the time of the imprisonments that may
follow conviction, cannot be less than
50,000!. to fay nothing of the utter ex
tinction of free opinion.
Leghorn, Dec. 19, We have further
accounts of the departure of the French
fleet from the bay of Spechia ; ten of them
;<regone to Toulon, where there are said
to be sixty transports, with 15,000 troops
on board, waiting for them to convoy.
Eleven other French fliips of war, with
some bomb ketches, are gone .to Corsica,
to take in 4,000 men. After this the fleet
will unite again, and, it is said, will fail
to Sardinia.
Admiral Truguet has declared that as
Tufcany has observed a very strict neutra
lity, it fliall not be molefled.
Calais, Jan. 5. "A number of priva
teers are ready in this harbour to ifl'ue out
immediately on a declaration of war.—
Troops are railing very fad in the depart
ments. lam ferry to observe the day be
fore yesterday. several chests of hard mo
ney were landed out of three Englifli vcf
fels, and immediately proceeded under a
strong escort, to the national treasury at
Paris: several carriages of this kind have
been landed within these three weeks."
[Probably the Patriotic Contributions
from Jeveral farts of Great Britain anil
Ireland.J
Ratijbonne, Dee. 30, Twenty two bat
talions of infantry andiß squadrons of ca
valry,have set out by order of the court of
Vienna an their march towards Manheim,
probably with a view to cut otf Gen. Cuf
tinc from Alsace. Gen. CuUine's fituati
■ 011 nt Mentz is critical. He has endea
voured to get the court of Munich to con
■ tinue its neutrality, and has made every
preparation to secure himfelf at Mentz.—
The inhabitants however lhowed tokens
of discontent, which accalioned Gen. Cuf
tine to iffite an edict threatening death to
1 ail who ihould talk of a surrender of that
• capital. The clergy and old magistrates
are said to be the chief inflriiments in fo
menting popular discontent, who have in
confequencc had a fine imposed upon them
of 500,000 florins. The defence of Mentz
is to be entrusted to Gen. Wimpfon. The
whole army of Gen Cuftine consists of
22,000 men, 10,000 of whom are at Callei.
For the National Gazette-
No. I.
To the FREEMEN of the UNITED
STATES.
Fellow-CiJizetu,
■\/OUK attention has been drawn at the
late fellion of Congress, to two subjects
of great national importance, and deeply
interfiling to the feelings of freemen—"J'lie
one an invetligation into the conduit of
the War Department, lb far as it related
to the failure of St. Clair's expedition :
the other relating to the unfaithlul use,
and application of the public monies, made
by the head of the Treasury Department
Enquiries have been had as to both these
very interesting fubjeits; and you have
been told with all the effrontery and disre
gard to facts so usual to the sycophant editor
of the uazette of the United states, in his
paper of the 6th instant, " That two of
the great departments of the government
have been scrutinized in the course of the
session ; and that on the feverej} investiga
tion prnjecutcd by the firjl abilities, ill the
opinion of a very large majority, not a spot
or wrinkle was found to fully the official'
conduct of the high and responsible charac
ters concerned."
Shanielefs and unfounded as this afler
tion is, are you disposed to afl'ent to it,
and thus permit the currency of untruths
and public imposition through such a
polluted channel ? Is it not true that
a contmittee of Congress have made
a fecoml report relative to the causes of
the failure of St. Clair's expedition, in
which the conduit of the War Department
is implicated in much stronger terms than
in their firfl report on that fubjeit ? Is it
not equally true that Congress have had rfc>
proceeding whatever on the report of tMt
committee, and consequently that 110 ac
quittal of the head of that department ex
ists, except in the Gazette of the United
States ?
And upon a candid review of the pro
ceedings as to the charges againfl the Se
cretary of the Treasury, does his boafled
acquittal Hand upon much better ground ?
What was it more than this J Certain pro
pofiiions expressive of the mal adininiltra
tion of the Secretary, brought forward
three days before adjournment, referring
to numerous fails and documents, the ex
amination of which required much more
time than Congress had to devote to that
objeit—thefe propositions without the fails
being inquired into by a feleit committee,
which is the usual and proper course of
bufmefs in ali legislative bodies, forced into
discussion before a committee of the whole
house, and after two conversations upon
them, voted by a majority as disagreed to.
And that majority content with this mere
negative vote, not venturing to bring for
ward any affirmative proposition to declare
or eitablifh the innocence of the Secretary.
Where then is the man who from a re
view of these proceedings in Congress in
relation to the maladministration of the
Secretary of the Treasury, can lay his hand
upon his heart and difp.iffionately fay /
believe him acquitted? If he be a b-nk
director who pronounces him innocent—
if a flockholder—a paper man of fix per
cents, three per cents, or deferred debt,
1 who has furidenly flarted up poflefl'ed of
accumulated thousands acquired by the in -
Hiumentality of speculations founded 011
large discounts by the bank of the United
States, at times when by the direct and po
litive inflrumentality of the Secretary of
the Treasury, hundreds of thousands of
dollars of the public money lay in the hands
and at the disposal of that bank, without
being palled into the public Treafury—lf,
I fay, he be a man of either of these des
criptions, will you receive his verdiit, and
admit it as the verdict of a man impartial
and disinterested!
And if you will not, nay cannot, let me
beseech you to look with a critical eye at the
names of that majority, who voted 011 what
has been erroneously called an acquittal of
the Secretary of the Treasury. Three of
those names {tand in the lift of bank direc
tors ; and fifteen or twenty more are re
puted to be flockholders in the fame bank
of the United States. Can these men be
admitted as judges—men who in fail are
parties in the cause—members ofthatvery
inAUiition, the bank, to whose benefit the 1
■ public money in question, has been almost
■ foleiy and excluiively applied ? Strike
i them out then from the pannel of this in
quelt, as in honor and coufcience they
ought to have liriken themselves out ; and
ofwhomdothe remaining portion of the
forty acquitting votes comilt ?—it cunliits
of men who with the belt intentions for the
' public good, fuffered motives of polity and
• humanity to direst that, vote, which never
> could have been given had time ior ihvef
■ tigation and due deliberation to guide their
< better judgment been allowed. Humanity
: laid, if we err let it be on the fide of mercy
> J —ami policy seemed to dictate that it were
j better to hand over to the next Congrei's
i ; the ultimate impeachment of a criminal
i i public officer, without deciding any of the
■! preliminary points of his guilt, \\ hen it was
' | manifeftly iinpuffible for want of time, then
to prosecute his impeachment ; and more
especially as acontrary conduct at the dole
of the feflion might have involved great
confufion and public inconvenience.
It mull alf> be remembered, that of sixty
odd members present in the courie of the
enquiry, fourteen voted against the Secre
tary, and ten or twelve absented thein
felves avowedly to avoid the giving a vote
011 a fubjett which they had not been al
lowed time to inveltigate. But after all,
what has been the finding of the majority ?
Is it not in the merciful language of an
inqneft in a criminal cause ?—" Ignoramus
—We are not informed—We cannot a
gree." When at the fame time had those
: v_erj*n been called upon to vete affirma
tively that the Secretary was innocent, it
is not polfible that any ten of them would
have given fuck a vote.
This then is the boaffed triumph of the
Secretary of the Treasury—temporary and
Ihort-lived indeed must be its elfe£t —vain
and illusory Juch an acquittal. There re
mains an appeal to the impartial tribunal
1 of the public—as alio to that patriot citi
zen and upright chief magistrate, whose in
tegrity and virtue are above all praise—
He will equally disdain and reject all per
sonal prejudices or attachments, all sepa
rate views or party animolities ; all private
interelfs or corrupt speculations—lie wiL
take care according to the solemn injunc
tion of the constitution, " that the laws be
faithfully executed not less by himfelf
than by nil the public fun£fionaries of his
appointment—He will take care that the
mal-adminiliration of unfaithful public
servants shall be visited upon them by me
rited disgrace and punishment.
In prosecuting this appeal then, and
fliewing the fallacy of a supposed acquittal
from any proceedings which have yet been
had, it is important to review the circum
stances which have been brought before
you in relation to the Secretary's mifcon
diifl. as rhey now appear, after the belt
defence his friends have made lor him.
And here my fellow-citizens, pause, re- .
fleft, & weigh well the firft consideration 1 ,
shall present to you.
The Secretary is charged with having |
violated law, and inftrudlions, in drawing <
over to thi;>[countryout of monies borrow" ,
ed in Holland, upwards of two millions of
dollars; that this drawing was carried on ;
for a period of two years, in a fccret and [
unauthorized maimer; and that no part of !
it was ever uled to any public purpose (
whatever ; but that it was wholly, and ex- ;
clulively applied to the emolument of (
banks, bank direcloi s,and their favourites. ,
The defence of the Secretary is, That he
is not conjcious of having violated law or (
injlrullions, but that if in any part of his
conduct, he shall appear to have done Jo,
there is a complete rejponfibility upon him
in all in/lances where Jpecial exceptions do
not appear; and tileji in purluance of this
idea of responsibility, he goes into several
elaborate treatifes,w hich together contain
about 200 octavo pages, and which he was
four weeks in preparing; (fating the many <
and great public causes of necejjity which r
compelled him to draw the money over; c
and finally, that in the uje of the money he ■
was guilty of no favoritijm to the bank. r
Now then, my fellow-citizens, if re
sponsibility implies a violation i f law, and r
inltruftions, if causes of public necessity |
are urged by the Secretary as paramount to 1
the Ihiit letter of law and inltruction, and t
to jultify a departure from them—what a c
strange and lfriking contradi£tion doe the c
defence of the Secretary made by himfelf
afford to the fpeeclies and votes of the bank J
directors, and his otherfriends in Congress, t
who have said, " that he neither violated t
law or initriictiuns, and from the beginning a
to the end of the business. did nothing but t
what he was clearly authorized aiid im- j]
powered to do."—For, if it was clear that v
he did nothing but w hat was authorized", n
was it rjot very absurd to maice an apology t
for having done his duty ? 'Nay more, to
write an elaborate defence for ha-vingdone >g
; to detain Congress fix weeks in an en- c ]
quiry about nothing ; and finally when a n
partial and equivocal hearing has been had, ii
to exult jn an accquittd.! f,
But the friends of the Secretary thought tl
it fafer and ealier, to gloss over a violation l
os law and inilructiorit , or even boldly to a
deny it altogether, althq' the Secretary has p
expressly acknowledged both, than to ha- ti
zard the enquiry, what use the two mil
lions of public money li2d been put to by t<
the Secretary. In the firft cafe they only n
exposed him to the sbfurdity I have ftatcd';
ft Pbi:t in tlie latter, tliey could not so clearly
e exonerate liim from the charge of an un
- t.iithful application of the public money—
y Unfortunately for them, as well as ior
'1 himfel , he was obliged to acknowledge,
i- that notwithstanding all those cogent and
Is pressing public necessities, which in the pe
riod or two years had irrefutably comptiUd
'I him to draw over tlie two millions ot'riol
r lars from Holland, yet at the end ot'the
(aid two years, after all these cogent and
pr effing } üblic ntceffities had beti.'provided
y tor by the ordinary revenue, there remain
y ed oil hand, on the firft cljy ot' January
e lait, the funi of 2,333,770 dollars and 66
s cents, confifiing of Dolls. Cts.
' Can' in the treasury at the end
e ' 79 0 , ■ / 8 3>444- 51
1 Do. in Bank, arising from
l! loans, and not pafied into
e the treasury, . 605,883.08
e Do. proceeds of bills drawn
t on account of foreign loans,
account not fettled, 614.593.02
Y Do. deposited in the bank of
i North America, - 177,998.80
- Do. in the hands of collec
■ tor£ , - - 151,851.25
2,333,7-/°- 66
A sum exceeeding by thirty thousand
1 dollars, the whoJe amount of money drawn,
s over from Holland.
The money then being on hand, and
- manifeftly not one (hilling of it ever used
■ lor any one of these great purposes of co -A
\ £ ent and pressing public nectffity, {fated bf
1 the Secretary, it became a natural and
necefl'ary qneftion, to' what uj'e, and for
• what purpose the money had been reall/
1 applied ? Since there was 110 man either
1 in or out of Congress, who had so far loft
■ his senses as to believe in the conjuring
charm given to this money by the Secreta
ry, namely, that it could be played about
tor two years in the hands of the banks,
■ as agents for the public, and hy mere in
chanting force of its inflrumentaiity and
applicability, without touching one {hilling
of it, could latisfy and difciiarge all the
cogent and pressing public necejjities, which
occurred during the said two years, and
'. yet at the end of that time, the v. hole of
the fame identical money be found undi
minilhed, and untouched in the public
treasury. Here then the Ihoe pinched, and
the enquiry prefled ; for altho' the Secre.
tary had acknowledged that the ban ks
were his agents, respecting the whole of
this money, which of course made bank di
rectors and stockholders parties in the
cause before Congress; as ill truth, they
had been the only and happy few who had
fenlibly felt the real and actual in fir tnr.cn -
tality and applicability of it, yet there were
realons of the moment which rendered it
neither convenient nor proper to pursue
very clyjely this part of the enquiry ; and
therefore when the honeftFINDLEY in his
fpeechf came to that part of his argument,
he was ciamoroufly (topped, and called to
order faz AJr, Mercer had been 011 the lame
occaiion before him.
Such my fellow-citizens, are the plain
and simple facts on which rests the firfk
point of consideration offered to your view,
and if in the perusal of them you feel your
selves injured and imposed upon by the
actors in this business, remember t. h atjure
at the great and impartial tribunal of ihe
public, there is no calling to order, no
flopping the current of free enquiry ; and
chat as truth is mighty lhe will prevail.
TIMON.
March tosh, 1713.
For the National Gazette.
Mr Frf.neAu,
A S no pains are spared by expiring aris
tocracy to vilify ami abuse the i'fench
revolution, the following instance will elu-<
cidate the views of men, deprived xn the
power of prolonging their too long endu
red perfections.
A member of the national confe.ition
proposes to deltroy the prejudices of the
people, as an obstacle to the progress of
liberty ; he offers a morality freed from
the gross images of superstition, and is in
consequence immediately denounced an
open Atheist.
Some Philadelphia papers aflfert that Mr.
Dupont had avowed himfelf a Deist, o
thers, an Atheist. Well—let lis admit
this last denomination, since the writer of
a paragraph, inserted in the Daily Adver
tiser, will needs have it so ; and add*, that
if he had avowed himfelf an aristocrat, he
would have been hifi'ed or perhaps dis
patched, whereas his confeflior. gained him '
the plaudits of the Convention I
I have no objection to granting the-para
'graphift all he fays ; but after all, what
does it prove cxcept that an aristocrat is a
more dangerous animal than either a
ift or an Atheist ? The Aristocrat oppres
ses the moral andphvlical faculties of man,
the Deist, or Atheist, onprefs 110 body.—
His opinions are his own, and alk not the
aid of rich and cruel priests ; he ereOs 1111
piles, stakes, hpr fires, nor kindles the def
truftive animosity of religious warfare.
Without aiming, or even attempting,
to juftify the principles of Atheism, might
not one a!li. what ideas can tyrants have
of the yxiftenve of s Supreme Being, whenen-'oyol n tuning the ws.-ld upside
down with their ambitious Wars —when
they imprl(o:i, torture, or put to death
virtuous men, who hive courage enough
to tell them, the truth—when, to fati>fy
their avarice they crulh nations under an
intolerable weight of taxes, impous, and
vexations of every kind.
And let us enquire alio, what tan be the
creed of crafty and covetous priests, vhc
facrifice every consideration to their tliini
for gold ?—how can they have the alfu
lance to pnfe!'- ths chiriftian religion—
a religion .vivcli inculcates poverty, humi
lity, fo'pveneu of injuries, and even love
towirds our enemies !
The truth is, they find it their interefl
to prevent light from fpr -adiug among
mankind. They are fenlible that tiue
science, in restoring the rights oi humar
nature, would soon convince ir.cn thai
they can be hapjry without the interventi
on of crowned or religious despots. l'<
set this aflertion in ac! -arer point of view
I will introduce a pafiajs of Bar infants
as quoted by Eufebius. Speaking of th:
Sires (the ancient ("liinefe, before th<
time of Confucius) he Jays, —Apud Sera
lex efi, ilia ceedesjcortatio, ft.rturn, et Si
mulacrorum cultus omnis prohibetur ,
quart:, amplifiimaregione non templum -oi
dAis, non leuam, non meretricum, uon a
dititeram, non fur em in jus raptum, nor
hjTKicidum, non toxicum." [Fragment o]
Rardefanes in Eufebius, Praepar. Evang
Lib. 6 Cap. 10].—" Among the Seres
the law forbids murder,debauchery, theft
and all kinds of religious worship. Thus,
in that immense country, no temple, nc
public woman, no adulterer, no thief, ni
murderer, nor poisoner, are to be seen".
What Being is there, endowed with the
rift of common f.-nle, that would not pre
fer living with fttch a people, rather thai;
as in Europe, to groan under the iron rod
of a tyrant, or be fubje£ted to the tempo
ral and spiritual persecution of a set oi
cruel and begottedpriefts 1
March 25.
For the National Gazette.
Afcrap of .Modern Antifsieralifm,.
<~pHE managers finding their party on the
-*■ decline, and knowing it will not an
swer thei r purpose no-w to find fault with
the constitution of the United States, and
that they are not likely to gee much by
railing at the official conduit of its public
officers', have changed their ground. They
tell us we are to be deprived of our liber
ties without our knowledge, and lay to
the world in as many words, that there is
nobody in the country fit to be trutted with
the government but themselves and friends.
In OT'er to cover their a ..bilious ueiigna
and to dupe the people to put them into
power, they ajfc.l to clothe themselves in
the humble garb of simplicity, while they
inodslHy affu-ne an exclufbe right to the
ptle of republicans ; and like a certain ci
devant duke, preach up the doctrine of
equality.
It is said the fchcme is of Virginia ex
trattion (a foil not more likely than some
others to produce much true republican
ism) and was fuggeftcd by some of their
firft partizans, with the laudable delign of
enabling the few, to ufnrp an authority
over the minds of the many. This is cal
led by way of diftinftion, znewgams adap
ted to the times, contrived and played toi
the purpose of getting into the saddle
PHILADELPHIA.
March 27.
On the 14th of March arrived at Charles
ton, S. C. th? fliip James from Bristol,
which place the left the 28th of January.
The former accounts of the execution of
the king of France on the 2 ill of January
are confirmed by this veflel. The molt
material particulars by the James are, in
brief, as follows :—On Sunday the 20th of
January the executive council assembled
early in the morning, with the Mayor and
other officers, to concert measures for the
execution of the decree againit Louis the
XVlth.' Having concerted the measures
of execution, at 2 o'clock P. M. they
were sent to Louis, who was at the fame
time waited upon by the president of the
executive council. The three extracts of
the decree of the national convention were
then read by the Secretary of the execu
tive council. To which Louis answered
by reading a written paper, signed by him
felf, making known his lall requests. which
ran thus—" X demand a delay of three
days, in order to make the neceflary pre
parations to appear in the prcfence oi
God !—I demand for that purpose to fend
k for and fee freely the person whom I lhal]
name—the person whom I demand is, M.
Efcheauvaux deFormont, he lodges at No.
483, Rue de 3acq.
" I demand that his person be secured
from all disturbance, from all appvehenli
on on account of the la.it offices of charity
which he shall render me.
" I demand to be freed from that per
petual iufpetlion, which the council gen
eral has eltablifhed over me for some
jnouthj.
" " I demand in this interval, to be able
to fee my family as often as I ihallrequelt,
and without witness.
" I would request, that the national
convention would immediately proceed tc
deliberate on the fate of my tamily, and
permit xhem to "retire freely, wherever
they may think proper.
" I recommend to the nation, a'l the
persons who were attached to me. 1 here
are many of them who have expended all
their famines to purchase places under
the new government, and who, having
now 101 l their sole dependance, must be in
circumstances of want. Among my pen
fioneri, were many aged ant' ;idi/er.t per
sons, who had no other meat.sot lupport
except the penlion which I gave them.
(Signed) LOUIS."
Done at the Temple, January 20th, 1793-
On which one of the members observ
ed " Louis. Capet has pnly made these
demands which you have now heard, to
the deputation of the executive council,
because they did not inform him of the de
cree pafied yelterday on my proportion, in
which the greater part of his requests are
anticipated. I demand on that <;rou d.
that we (hall pas. to the order ot the day.
The a dumbly accordingly pafled to the
order ok-theday.
EXECUTION of LOUIS XVJ.
PAils, January 22, 1793-
Louis was beheaded yesterday at the
Place de Louis XV. at a quarter pair ten
o'clock in the morning. He was conduct
.ed thither in the mayor's carriage, accom
panied by his confefTor and two gendar
mes. Great silence was preserved during
the proceflion, but when he reached the fa
tal spot. the noise of drums and trumpets
was great. He ascended the fcaflold with
firmnrfs, made a sign he had something to
fay : little, however, was heard, on ac
count of the noise, ex:ept. " I die inno
cent 1 I forgive you all ?" 1 he (en
tente was inllantly executed, / ive lu
Nation resounded on all lides.
The whole place, and the avenues, were
filled with troops of the line.
A member of the convention, who voted
for his death, was attacked in a coffee
houf< and killed. This, is feared, is but
the beginning of a scene of bioodQied,
which will not (oon be terminated.
Orders have lately been sent to Truget,
to fail from the Mediterranean into theo
ceau to watch the motions ol Lord Hoou.
By an arrival at New-York, that left
Ireland the 24th of January, we hear, that
the uiiturbances 111 that kingdom were ve
ry great, occasioned principally by a f cu £"
city of provihons which prevailed through
out alflreland. especially in the northern
parts, where, it was reported, many thou ,
finds of the inhabitants were embotlie...
and had committed great outrages : and
so alarming were their excelfes that molt
part of the troops from other quarter* '-ve.e
drawn off, ill order to quell the rioters.—
When th:veflel left Cork, pressing rf men
to go on board {hips Ol war, had not taken
place, but it was hourly expected would.
We hear from Martinico that tranquili
ty is perfectly reitored in that island-
The republican flag of the nation was
hoisted 011 the 4th of January, immediate
ly after the departure of the fleet of royal -
ills, who have taken refuge in the Spinilh
illandof Trinidada, where they were but
indifferently received by the government,
which has iince written to Spain relative
to the part that is to be taken with theni.
A squadron was to fail from France the
24th of January to restore order in the se
veral islands,
Thegovernor of the United States ter
ritory, south of the Ohio, iflued a procla
mation on the 28th of January, notifying
a number ofdiforderly persons under his
jurifdiftion, who were collecting with an
intention to march to the upper Cherokee
towns and destroy the fame, to refrai
from any fitch attempts, and
them to disperse, &c or that they
fwer the contrary at their peril—ll' <*n; ■ -
quence of the proclania.iou the',' dilji .fed
accordingly, and returned to iheir homes.
Numberless depredations we hear are to'i
ftantly committed by draggling Indians on
the frontier of the territory above menti
oned. Their chief object appears to be
carrying ess horfrs, in accomplilhing which
they pay no regard to the lives of the inha
bitants, many of whom have been killed
during the late winter.
We hear from Jamaica that on the 6th
of February Capt. Bligh arrived there
from Otaheiet, in the south fcas, bringing
with him 347 plants of the bread-fruit tree
332 of which were left in Jamaica as a
(lock to be propagated thro' the islands.
The remainder are to go to England, be
ing intended for the king's gardens at
Kew.
" Beiides the plants above mentioned,
(we are told) Captain Bligh has brought
248 plants ot different kinds ; among which
are the Otaheite apple, (one of the faioll
delicious and high flavored fruits in the
world) the mango, China lemon, almond,
and two nutmegs, whichharibeen planled.
and it is expe&ed will grow. He all'
brought two natives with him; one ol them
came with an intention of going to Efig
1 aid, tlie other remains in Jamaica, to as
ft .1 in Php cultivation of the plants.
It is worthy remark,fays a correspondent,
with how much address certain suspicious
voters on a late apjfittal, go about to pu
rify themfelves—fenGble thafe felf purga
tion is neceflary, they attempt directly or
iiulireftjly to insinuate .to acertain perjon
age that they have no interest in a.certain
thing called public blelling, alias, public
debt, or in its agent inftnsptent-ality * alias,
bank of the United States- 1 Having, as
they suppose cunningly eluded.discovery,
by transferring intruftto a fan, in law,
brother ifi Jaw, father in law, &c. &c.
that interest which under this specious co
ver they still retain in the corrupt leaven
»f iniquity. But how would the mind of
that perfoliate be imprefied, if calling for
the original subscription to the bank, or
tor a lilt of such members of a certain bo
dy as were stockholders on the firlt tfay of
Jan nary last, or for the original books, of
transfer of public debt, he {hould discover.
what is now pretty notorious, that at lead
twenty-five of a certain class of voters,
have their names enrolled in one or other
of tiiofehn'iourable lilts, to the honourable
amount of thousands upon thoufanda ?—
and what too, if he (liould find the three
or four principal defenders of a certain
character holding some one, two, three,
and even four hundred shares in a certain
bank!
There is (fays a correspondent) fomp
thing extremely paradoxical in the present
crying and almost calamitous scarcity
of cadi, not less among the people at
arge than, as it is fuggelled, in the
jank and treasury of the United States.
Nor will it at all allift to unriddle this pa
radox, if referring to the reports of the
Secretary of the Treasury to Congress,
ind upon the evidence of which his reputed
icquittal ttanc]'. the public are told by the
Secretary that late in the month of Febru
iry [here was on hand of public money in
he Treasury and Bank of the United
itates upwards of two millions of dollars,
>efides the coming in of about 600,000
11 ore of bonded duties which would fall
lue between the firft of January in the
irefent year and the last day of this month,
perhaps, however, ip may not he expedient,
jr there may exifl rerjons of the. mo'rtent,
A»liy no part of this enormous excess of
:a{li is, at this time applied in thepurchafe
jf t'ne public debt, particularly, when it is
onfidered that now fix per cents may be
>urchafed at from 17/6 to iB/t> in the pound,
tnd the Secretary himfelf wasJo apparent
'yanxious on the 30th of November last to
apply this money in that way, as to re
juelt of Congress in his repprt of that
late, to pass 1 la-.v to aicthorize him topur
hetie fix per. cvntt at the market price, tin?
ibove par.
flxtraCls from various late French Pa
pers.]
1. The death-stroke was not given to
nobility in France till Royalty was wholly
ibolilhed. Royalty it felf is a species of
lobility, and as long as a particle oi it re
mained, nobility might have been restored.
livery deprived nobleman, who now rec
ions any tiling upon his ancient titles of
lobility, mull be a fool, equal in lnadnefs
:o the Norman who some years ago pre
"e lied himfelf Jo Doctor Fraoklin, at Pa
ris, ami offered to govern the Americans,
nkiiig, in virtue ot poffeliing some drops
as the blood-royal. Hut if there is a man
n France', of what they call noble birth,
fc who \ *.;• : himfelf upon it. he must bs a
traitor liofe sentiments he accepts
any place lev .he republic,
2 Tiu . :i» fepm to forget, whei
o vocife: - " ;it tile debates oi the Nati
onal Co.: ■ :n, that they no longer ad
ex-, i litiv e body at the direction 0:
L c.uis the XVlth. Americans did no
•:i persecute their Congress during th<
.car wirli.f ngiand—they left them to i:c
y, a:ulftiil watched them narrowly
\v..l out perpetually giving them advice u
it;c bar of their deliberations.
3. Letters from Germany announce tha;
3,l'eat numbers of the French emigrants
'eeing their brilliant expectations not si
hear being realized as tlicy imagined
havebetakenthemfelves todJierent trades,
Thus.nothingis morecommon among then
now th in to fee the gramlfon of a greai
general turn butcher ; the descendant of ;
minister of state felling small drugs in ai
apothecary shop ; and the foils of courl
favorites employed at the noble occupa
tion of tooth-drawing!
4. If there was a time proper for open
ing the yeins of the body politic, there i:
alio a time to close them, for fear the
w hole frame ftiould be convulsed. The
opposition of a particular will to the gen
eral >vili is tyranny ; and if the insurrec
tion against despotism is I jnclioped by the
public voice, an inlurreition against the
republic is impious. The firlt is virtue,
the feconcl a crime. The republican torn
of government is founded upon the piili
and generous virtues or the heart, the vir
tues of hospitality, fraternal affection,
and the feelings of humanity ; but what
are called the virtues of monarchy, arc op
predion, violence, proscriptions,'and ci-n
tempt of men. Rome, while free anil
republic, was nottlifgraccd with ten mur
tiers ip the space of three h;:i,'i!re<i ye.-,:"' .<
whenunder kings, and in a fluteot Caw,
ry flic-was the tonftant scene of mvrjer.
proscriptions, and death. Monarchy
tragedy that always vvimjs iip itscari'ciwitti,
terror and tlefpair—but terror
national character, and defpai}; mifieatjj it.
5. Iratriotifm, like religion, has its hv
pocrites. If \ye would unruaik itj. ft cr
phants, we must always tonikler what Ari
Aides, Pfaocion, Epaminqndas, lirutns, or.
Cato did in fmiilar, or at. the fame June-,
ture of cjrcumftances ; and- 01. the other,
hand, what were the proceedings as ;?y(if
trates, the Decemvirs, Sylla, Ma rins, or.
Clodius ; the former never enters.i into,
lenathy, intricate difcullions 011 the affairs,
of liberty and the republic, but (lid then r
duty. They did not call theinfelvcs the,
friends ot the people, twit were »o in real
ity. It was not an. insatiable ambition,
and-inordinate pride, but their humility,'
thcirlimplicity, a n d their public fjjivit, that
conferred on them thg yf yea;,
men. The latter, deftroyeii, wkfe on.'
hand, the barriers of all power ; and with,
the other raised up a barrier for their
own security.at once hideous and terrible.
They gabbled about liberty, and yet even,
the liberty of opinion in the moll ordinary,
tilings was compelled to yield to their im
perious controu!—tljey talked about the.
public good, while their bloody {lands were,
fcatterifig all around titein hatred, dH'cprd,
and death—republicans of S"rajice 1 ii'i>
pours to tlifarm thole apoflles of defpot
iCm, of t.heir. faggots and their daggers ;
but do not turn them against their ";>\vu
guilty, breasts—spare even those who have
pared 110 man ; and by loading then.
A'ith. favours, let us give them an example'
if republican generolity.
6. There is an ai illocracy of public build 1
ugs which ought not to he coyntftjanceii,
n p(ir reoublic. ]jut ill reprobating tliCs
iriltocracy of palates and pompons (lpyics,
et 11s not confound in the general cgnfure.
liofe edificesdefignedfor the deliberation!
jf the elective representatives of the peo
)le, Any ltructure ere&ed. folelyto ho
lor and ackn9\ylgdg» the fnpi emacy of the
aws (that ftibfiil by the general consent ot
lie nation) is praise worthy in the'nioft
/irttious republic, as it tends to impreflstbtt
:itizens with a rcfpecl for the laws. la.
his view therefore, a few parsiciilai
juildir.gi, for holding the public councils,
n every department, may, not be. linwpr
.hy th? future c gnlideration of the French.
Jeople. But the arillocracy, in buildings,
lere referred to, is w hen the people us'
republic are to blind' as to authorize tha.
railing to the honor, and for the fi.cerilu
jus accommodation of tjie mere private
perfonsof the magistrates, thoie edifice>
which are ralhef calculated for heredita
ry kings than the transient exsuitiyes of
the national councils. The people are
evermore an object of hatred, and fear to
tyrants and the sons oi' tyrants, who foi
lliat reason akftract themCelyes front
them as much as pollible, and live,
recluse in vail and solitary habitations,
the resort only of courtiers anil fvco,
phants.—But as the fate of France depends
iot upon the talents of any que mail, fu
let no one man be fetlnded froth the peo
ple, by a public aO, in a highly diftingui/h
---sd dwelling. Our strength is i.ll the laws,
:he laws fubfill in equality, and equality
s at an end when are cpnlider
.d, personally, or abflracredly froiji their
office, in any other light than that of citi
zen, or when that veneration is proflitu-i
ted to men which is due .0 principles on
ly. It may be said that, " the edifices we
arefpeaking of, cannot be dangerous to
liberty because the offices in our govern
ment are transient, and he who is to day
railed to delegated power by the fviffrages
of the people mull shortly yield to a fuc
celfor, that liberty may not be endangered.'*
We anfvver, that a faithful inagiftrate du
ring his niagiftracy ought ;o know nptji'mg
but care : if we surround hiin with the
pleasures, the splendours, the pomps, and
the vanities ot the world, and put him
with all llnfe into a (patriot;* palace, he
will regret the loss when the term of his
feryice is expired, and will omit 110 ei'dea
vour to be seated in his great houie again,
and even to coulign it to his pollerity after
him.
I Have claims to about two hundrtd and
fifty thousand acres of LAND in the state of
A.entuckey, in different parts of that country,
lomc of which 1 know to be equal to any; all
ol which I am inclined to dilpofe of, cither by
entire sale, or by admitting one, or two part icrs,
to whom the agency on the whole wili be com
mitted.
One fctjrlh of the contract will be required in
hand, either in calh, merchandise, or luch aflets
as may be converted to adtive use, the relidue
may be apportioned in convenient inlialments-
The purchasers to give Security, on the lanJ,
or otherways,as fuiba thern.
Knowing that there is a prejudice against the
titles of land in that liate, which is more general
than just, iam willing to jtipulate in the con
cra&, that a dlfcount, or deduction, Olall be,
made, where any laud may be loft, by reaion of a
defective title.
Any perlon inclining to such a purchase, it r. -
quested towiite to me by post, in answer t
whom, more Particular information will be givtn.
tl EN R T B Wi\jC S.
Richmond Match io, 1793. V.3da.:s c i Official conr'uS of the Secre
tary of the Treasury.
(Concluded.)
FsinAY, March I.
Mr. W. Smith—[in continuation.)
THE house knew as well as the Secre
tary that loans had been made, and
that monies had under them, been drawn
into this country j but they knew that
thole monies had been specially appropria
ted to the linking fund, and it never en
tered into the ideas of any member to di
vert them from that beneficial object, in
order to apply them to the current service :
It was not to te presumed that the Se
cretary would have recommended such a
diverlion.
To impute blame to him for notcom
mr.riicating the amount of monies drawn
from time to time, there mull have been
some law or order of the house requiring
the communication, or it must have been
necelTary to lome object depending before
the house. What law or order of the
house made it necelTary ? None: The laws
authorized the loans and prescribed their
objects ; 'he reft was mere executive bu
i'mefs ; and no communication was neces
sary to any measure depending before the
house.
But though the Secretary would not
have been censured for omitting to givt
the information, the truth was, that the
PicfiJrnt's fpe- ch of Bth December 1790,
the Secretary's report of 25th Feb. and
the ast of the 3d of March 179 1, were
conclulive proofs that the legislature knew
that the proceeds of the loans were in a
train of being brought to the United
States. The accounts of receipts and ex
penditures prcfented in the firil week ol
the session, informed the house that i
large sum had been drawn for ; and the
i'reafurer's quarterly account contained
lu thcr information 011 the fubjeft, all
which was piior to any call of the house
for such information. Hence Mr. Smith
deductd, that it was not a fadt that the
Seer.try had failed to give the informa
tion, as lilted in the resolution, and that
even had he so failed, he would not have
been censurable for a breach of an eflent ial
duty of his office.
It had been said by a member frotr
Ptmifylvama, (Mr. Findley) that the late
ne's of the information from the Secre
tary, made it inconvenient to go isto an
enquiry of his official conduct lo near the
close of the session. To this Mr. Smith
replied, that he did not expeil such a re
mark from that quarter of the houfe—ll
the gentleman had not been prepared foi
the enquiry, or thought it an impropei
feafjn 10 enter upon it, why did he second
the motion for bringing forward the char
ges ? If fufpieion had so long exilled a
gaintl the integrity of the Secretary, whj
was not information called for at the be
ginning of the session ? Why was the cal!
delayed till the session was within a week
of its termination ?
It was admitted, that the Secretary had
obeyed the order of the house with won
derful alacrity and promptitude; it was
indeed strange, that the gentleman whe
brought forward the charges, should be the
firll to complain, that there was not time
for their confidcration.
Mr. Smith concluded by noticing the
observation of Mr. Mercer and Mr. Mad
ison, that the opinion of the house on the
preceding resolutions would not change
the truth of fafls, and that the public
would ultimately decide whether the Se
cretary's conduit was criminal or not.
This, said Mr. Smith, was like the con
duit of a prosecutor, who having chosen
his jurifdidlion, and being non-suited, wilh
ed to appeal to another tribunal. Why
were the resolutions brought before the
house ? Was it not to substantiate the
truth of them by a vote i And had the
• prosecution fjcceeded, would the Secreta
ry have had an appeal to the public ? No,
the resolutions would have been sent to
the President, and the Secretary would
have been removed, disgraced, and ruined
forever, wi hout appeal."
After some further debate on this reso
lution, the committee divided, 16 to 35
againfl. it.
The other resolutions were 101 l without
a division.
Go that which accuses the Secretary
of having been guilty of an indecorum, by
the llyle of his late report, Mr. Findley
made the following rematks:
Since these resolutions were laid 011 the
table, I have upon reflection been convin
<_cd of the impropriety of conncfting it
with the others, or of treating this part of
the Secretaiy's conduct in this manner.
It is solely in the power of this house to
punish all contemptuous or indecent treat
ment of its authority or orders ; for this
ourpofc it is not nectflary to lay our opin
ions in this way before the public, report
hem to the President, or make them a
foundation of impeachment. We might
have ordered him to the bar of this house,
and obliged him to make proper acknow
ledgements. I have known tome high in
office treated in this manner for infinitely
less an impropriety. It is true in the cafe
to which T allude, I thought the affair was
carried rather too far. The offence was
only a letter to the house refpefting the
:onduft of a member, whom the officer
:harged witl making free with his cha
racter in an insidious manner. I would be
lorry to fee this house pursue such trifles,
hough the indecorum of the Secretary
to this house is ol a higher nature. I
:hink it is bed to treat it with silent con
tempt. I will vote against this resolution,
ell it should be interpreted as a relinquifh
nent of ourauthoiity to punish contempt "
The committee then rose and reported,
:hac they had disagreed to the relolutions
eferred to them.
The house then took up the resolutions
and passed a decision, on each as follows :
On the question of agreeing to the re
port of the committee which rejects the
Several resolutions—
Ayes Noes']
On the I ft resolution referred 40 —12
2d 39 — j 2
3d 33—15
4th 35— 8
sth5 th 33— 8
6th 34— 7
Calumnies againjl the French.
During the vehemence of a speech in
the French Convention, the Orator cri
ed out that, for himfelf, he is an Atheist.
I'his is wonderfully worked up, and
founded forth by the enemies of France,
ind is accompanied with conclusions bold
is they are sals: ; that that declaration
sr the dodtrincs of the oration, refpec
ing the fubjeft matter of Atheism, were
■eceived with unanimous applause (except
iy two or three Pricfts) and that there
ore it may be considered as an exposition
>f the creed of that assembly ; and the in
inuation is, that it is the ireed of the
lation. These ideas, with many others
ire industriously ulhered into the Ame
ican newspapers, with a view, as it seems,
:o warp the minds of Americans with the
prejudices of another nation, against the
French Are there citizens of America
lifpofed to promote such abuse of a nati
>n to whom America, as a nation, is obli
ged, and that too when she is struggling
r or her precious liberties against the inve
erate enmity of all the despotism of Eu
ope ?
Can there be a single citizen, faithful
o this lovely country and to his own
lonor, who is disposed to injure the
French nation ? or become the tool of
hose whose ill will to the French is con
picuous, and whose difpofi'ion towards
>ur own nation we cannot be ignorant of?
When we consider the relation be
ween the two countries, France and A
nerica, the obligations conferred by the
)ne, the gratitude due from the other,
t would be infamous in any citizen of
his country, on any account, to Jlir up
• nmity against France. " Ingratitude is
.vorfe than the fin of witchcraft, which
safin againft'both God and man.
If there be Atheiftsin the world, men
who deny the existence of a God, and
tvho have no religion at all, either true or
alfe, the number is very few. It indeed
is said, that no man can be an Atheist,
For that all nature cries aloud through all
ber works, " there is a God !"
It is not possible that France should
be a nation of Atheifls. There is not
in the whole world a nation of Atheids :
there never was, and never can be any
number of them together: they consist
of a few, dispersed, speculative men, who
perhaps unhappily for themselves, have no
conception of a God other than Nature ;
of which they do not conceive of it as be
ing a person : they know not the comfort
of depending on a providence, but they
avoid the error of imputing bounds or
lhape to Nature, their God, by imagining
it to be 3 per/tn. Diary
K. B. In the French original M. Da
bortjiles himself a Deijl: See National Ga
zette of March lsth.
P R I G E CURRENT.J
Dollars. Cents.
AhES, pot per ton i2oil/o 125 c!
pearl ditto 134(1 to i4od
Bacon, flitches per lb 8c
Ihoulders do 7 c
Beef, Boston per barrel 7 ( ' B ( ''
Country do CAtoyA
Beer, American in bottles
including bottles per doz. id 14c
ditto per barrel 4d
Bees wax per lb 26c 28c
Brandy, Coniac per gal 90c 100 c
common do 75c 82c
Butter in kegs per lb 12c 13c
Cheese, Country per lb 8c 10c
Englifli >9 C
Chocolate '8c 20c
Coal, per bufliel 20c 22c
Codfifh per cwt s°c
Coffee per lb 16c '8c
Copperas per cwt id 67c
Cordage, American per cwt 7d 67c 8d
Cotton per lb 26c 36c
Flax per lb 8c 10c
Flaxfeed per hhd. yd
Flour Superfine per barrel 6d
Common 5 1 ' 67c
Bur-midUngs, best 5d 33c
Meal Indian 3''
Rye, do 3d 33c
Gin, Holland per cafe 4 C ' 70c
per gallon 80c 44c
Ginseng, 20c 28c
Gunpowder, Fine glazed per q c c
Grain, Barley per bnlhel id 14c
Bell fhellec! per bufli. -ad 67c
Buckwheat per bufliel 27 c
Indian corn 60c
Jersey, do 63c
Oats 35c
Rye 70c
Wheat id 25c
Hams per lb 9c
Hemp, imported per ton 120<,1 I4<>d 67c
American per lb 4c
Hides, raw per lb 9c 11c
Hops 27c
Honey per lb 8c
Indigo, Carolina per lb id id 20c
French id 20c id 53c
Iron, Bar per ton 93d
Calling'; per cwt 3d 4d
Nail-rods per ton nod iiid
Pig 24d 2<id67C
Sheet 173'' 33 c
Irons, fad 1333 3c
Lard, hogs per lb 10c 11c
Leather, foal per lb 14c 17c 20
Myrtle wax per lb 12c
Molasses per gallon 53c 57c
Muflard, flower, in bot. per doz id 20c
second quality, per doz 87c
Nails, 8d lod I2d and 2od per lb 10c
Oil, Linseed per gallon 67c
Olive 87c
per cafe 4d sd
Pepper per lb 38c
Pimento 18c 19c
Pitch per bbl 2d 25c
Porter per calk 6d
London per doz id 60c
Amer. bot. inclu. id 4c id 67c
Pork, Burlington, per bbl iod 67c iid
Lower county 8d
Carolina 9d
Rice per cwt 2d 88c
Rum, Antigua per gal id
Barbadoes 81c
Country, N.E. 65c 70c
Jamaica id 67c
Saltpetre per cwt 112
Salt, Allum, per bufli 53c
Cadiz 50c
Lisbon 55c
Liverpool 53c
Snake root per lb 27c
Snuff, per doz. bottles 4d 5d 60c
per lb 33c 40c
Soap, Brown per 2b | 8c
White 9c
Starch per lb 7c
Sugar, Havannah, white, per lb 14c
Brown )ic 14c
Muscovado per cwt 13d isd
Lump per lb 24c
Loaf, single refined, 2 5c
double ditto, 33c
Tallow, refined, per lb # yc
Tar, Newjerfey 24 gal per bbl 1 d 20c
Carolina, 32 gal id 33c id 67c
Tea, Hyson per lb 93c id 28c
Souchong 50c 93c
Bohea 33c 36c
Tobacco, Jamesßiver, befl 3d 60c 73c
Inferior 3d 33c
Old 4d 67c
Rappahannock 3d 33c
Coloured Maryland sc! 33c 8d
Dark 2d 40c
Long-leaf 2d 403
Eastern-shore ->d 2d 23c
Carolina, new 2d 7c 3c
Old 3d 33c
Turpentine per bbl id 67c 2d
Wine, Madeira,p. P. i?6d 200 d 226 c! 67c
Lisbon 133d3d
Teneriffe per gal
A FEW COPIES OF THE
TRANSACTIONS
Of the Society injiituted in the State of
New-York, for the promotion of
AGRICULTURE, ARTS, and MANU
FACTURES,
May be had at this Office.
[Price half a dollar. J
Jan. 3.
W ATCHF.S.
ROBERT LESLIE,
CLOCK and WATCH MAKER, No.£ 167,
Market-llreet.
AFTFR returning his sincere (hanks to his
Iriends, and the public in general, for the
encouragement he has experienced since the
commencement of his bufmefs in ibis city, takes
this opportunity of* informing them that, in con
ference of his intention of going to London in A
pri! next, he is felling off, at very reduced prices,
his (lock in trade, coufi ling of a very large and
general attornment of enamelled and plain gold,
gilt and silver, capt, and capr and jewelled
WARRANTED WATCHES,
Most of which are of the latest importation ani
newest falhidn, — Also a variety of the highest li
niflieJ cut steel, and gilt, ladies and gentlemen's
Watch Chains, Seals, Keys, and Trinkets, toge
ther with a fevv Gold Chains, Keys and Seals.
Philad. Jan. 16, 1793. ef.tf.
TO BE SOLD,
By JOSEPH CRUKSHANK, in Mar
ket jlreet,
LETTERS
Addrefi'ed to the Yeomanry of the UniteJ
States, (hewing the neceffitv of confining the pub
lic revenue to a fixed proportion of the net pro
duce of the land, and the bad policy and injuftie'e
of every species of indirect taxation and commer
cial regulations .
by a farmer.
Also, mav be had at the fame place, a few co
pies of the FARMER'S LETTERS, containing
observations on the. dangerous scheme of Governor
Duer and Mr. Secretary Hamilton to
National Manufactures.
Feb. 22. 3 t. law
FOR SALE.
THE Subscriber wilhes to fell the HOUSE
and LOT in Princeton, now in the tenure
of William Worth i it is an eligible (land, either
for a privatrfamily or a traiefman, being /ituated
on the North fide ot the street, near the centre »f
the town, and a little east of (he market house—
1 he lot contains forty-two feet in front, and up
wards of two hundred feet in depth ; on the pre
mises is erected, and in pood trnantable »rder, a
two rtorv dwelling house, twenty feet front by 26
in depth j two rooms on the lower floor, with
entry fix feet wide ; three rooms on the second
floor, and a room in the garret, lathed and plaf.
tered. In the rear of the house, and adjoining
thereto, is a large kitchen, and the cellar extends
under the whole of the house. In the yard, there
is a well of excellent water—the jard and garden
are enclosed with a good pale fence. This koufe
and lot might be an obje<3 to some gentleman who
wilh to educate iiis children either at the
College or the Latin or Fnglilh schools, which
are conduced upon an improved plan—The title
is indisputable, and pofieflion may be had the firll
of April. For terms apply to the fubferiber in
Princeton. FARED SEXTON.
PRINCFTON, Feb. iS. 4 w2aw
PmiiiELmU, January 12, 1793.
MATHEW CAREY
RerpecM'ully informs the Citizens of the
United States, that the Mapsfor his
intended edition of
Guthrie's Geography
IMPRO V E D,
Are now engraving—and as soon as a fufficient
number of them are finifhed, to secure a regular
supply during the publication,which will proba
bly be early next Spring, the work will be put
to press.
He returns his acknowledgments to the very
number of fubferibers, who have come
forward thus early to patron/ze this arduous un
dertaking. He allures them and the public in
general, that no pains or expencc (hall be spared in
the execution of the work.
Terms of the Work :
I. IT (hall be puhli/hed in 48 weekly num
bers, each containing three sheets, or twenty-four
pages, of letter press, in quarto, printed with new
types on fine paper.
11. In the course of the work will be delive ei
about thirty large maps, of the fame size as those
in the European editions, viz. moll of them sheet
maps on pott paper.
Besides the maps in the Bn''{b Eriiti?n %
this work <wi I contain nine or ten Amt,\c*n States
Maps.
111. The price of each number will be a quar
ter dollar, to be paid on delivery.
No a tin} an ce required.
IV. Subscribers who difapprovft of the work,
on the publication of the three firft numbers, are
to be at liberty to return them, and (hall have
their money repaid.
V. The fubferibers' names (hall be prefixed as
patrons of (he undertaking.
*#* Sub/criptions received in Philadelphia by
the intended publisher 5 in New-York, by all the
booksellers j in New-Haven, by M . Beers : in
Hartford, by Mr. Patten j in tiofton, by Me<&
Tbomas and Andrews, and by Mr.• Weft \ it
Baltimore, by Mr. Rice 5 in Richmond, bv L*r.
J. Carey j in Charleflon, by Mr, W. P. Young,
and by sundry other persons throughout the Uni
ted States. t.f.ja.w.
Forfale, at the printing office, a few copies
vf the fir (I volume of the National Gazette.
PRINTED BY
GUILDS and SWA IN E,
AT THEIR OFFICE N0.209, HICH-STREST,
NEAR FI F TH-S TR FF T,
Philadelphia*