Nums. 52 of Vol. ll.] SATURDAY, April 27, 1793.
IRELAND is at present a great objc£i
upon the political theatre of the world ;
ami every tlrp ihe takes towards her email
cipation mu'.tbe highly intere,ling, & parti
cularly so to Americans. Such ol their pa
pers as are not under the baneful influence,
or fear of the court, speak in every page
that bold anil glowing language of Liberty,
which upon greatoccafions Ihe neverfailstc
inlpire. From an immense number oi pi o
ductions of this fort, the following is fe
lefted as part of the entertainment of this
day's paper.
THE SOCIETY OF
UNITED IRISHMEN,
AT DUBLIN,
TO THE
VOLUNTEERS OF IRELAND,
William Drennan, Chairman., Arch- Ham.
Ro-wan, Secretary.
Citizen Soldiers,
YOU firft took up arms to protest your
country from foreign enemies, and
from donu llic difturbaace. For the fame
purposes.it now becomes neceflary th-u
you iiiould resume them. A proclamation
has been issued in England for embodying
the militia, and a proclamat on has been
issued by the lord lieutenant and council
in Ireland, f»r repi*efling; all seditious allo
cation.■ In confeque ice of both these
proclamations, it is realonab e to appre
hend danger from abroad, and danger at
home. For whence but from apprehend
ed dinger are thole menacing preparations
for war drawn through the ltreet <•» this
capital, or whence, it not to create that
internal commbtion which was not found,
to Hi ike that credit whuh was not afetted.
to blalt the volunteer honour wh.ch was
hitherto inviolate* are thole terrible fug
gettiuas and ru nours and whispers, that
lfleet at evtfry corner, agitate leaf!
our old men, our women and children.
Whatever be the motive, or from whate
ver quarter it arises, alarm hasrifen ; and
you, VOLUNTEERS OF IRELAND, are
tnerefore Summoned to arms at the in
stance of government, as well as by the
refponlibility attached to your character.
and the permanent obligations of your in
f.itution We will not, at this day, cori
del'cend to quote authorities for the right
of having and of uling arm.-. ; but we wi.
cry aloud, even amidit the liorm raited b>
the witchcraft of a proelamatio i, that tc
your formation was owing the peace anc
protection of this ifl nd, to your relaxation
has been owing its relapl'e into impotence
and i ilignifi. ance, to your renovation mud
be owing its future freedom and it
present tra iquil ty. You are th resort
l'liinnioned to arm-, iji oder to prcferve
your country in that"guard(d quiet, whicl
may f.cure it from external h iltility. anc
to maintain that internal regimen through
out the land, which superseding a notori
o.is police, or a ufpefled militia, mly pre
serve the blessings of peace by a vigilani
preparation for war.
Citizen foidiers, to arms ! Take up tin
fhiekl ot freedom, and the pledges of peace;
—Peace, the motive and end ol your vir
tuous ialtitution. War, an occalional du
ty, ought never to be made an occupation
Every man Ihould become a soldier in th<
defence of his righ:s ; no man ought tc
k >ntinue a foMier ;or offending the right!
f others. The facrifice of life, in the
Service of our country, is a duty much toe
honourable to be intruded to mercenaries,
and at tni's time, when your country has
by punlic authority been declared in dan
ger, we conjure you by your interelt, youi
duty and your glory, to to your arms,
and in spite of police, in spite of a fenci
ble militia, in virtue of two proclamations,
to maintain goo.l order in your vicinage,
and tranquility in Irelafld. It is only bj
the military array of men in whom they
confide, whom they have been accuflom
ed to revere as the guardians of domellic
peace, the protestors of their liberties and
lives, that the present agitation of the peo
ple can be stilled, that tumult and licenti
ous less can be repressed, obedience secur
ed Co exiiting law, aud a calm confidence,
diffuftd through the public mind, in the
speedy refurrettion ol a free constitution ;
ot' liberty and of equality - , words which
we use tor an opportunity of repelling ca
lumny, and of faying, that,
Bv liberty we never understood unlimit
ed freedom, nor by equality the levelling
of property, or the deltruction of fubonli
nation, This is a calumny invented by
that failion or tu.it gang which misrepre
sents the king to the people, and the peo
ple to the king ; traduces one half ot the
By P. FREN EA U: Publijhcd Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
nation to cujole the oiher, and by keeping
updiftrult and division, wiflies to continue
tne proud arbitrators of* the fortunes and
fate of Ireland. Liberty is the exercise of
ail our rights natural and political, secur
ed to us and ourpoflerity by a real repre
sentation of the people ; ai.d equality if
he extension of the constituent to the ful
iett dimensions of the constitution, of the
pJe&ive franchife to tht w holy bocivof the
people, lo the end that gover num. which
.s colieftive power, may be gi ded by col
lective will, and that legislation may origi
nate from public reason, keep pace with
public i provement,and terminate inpub
iic happiness. If our com.itution be im
perfect, nothing but a reform in represen
tation will rectify it> abuies ; it it be per
se&, nothin. but the facie reform will per
petuate its bleflings.
We now addrn you as citizens, for to
je citizens you became so diers ; nor can
we help wishing that all fuldiers, partaking
:he and interelt of the people,
vvouid remember that they were once ci
:.zens, that seduction made them foldiefrs,
—• but nature made them wen 11 Vv ead
Jrels y ni w i hout any authority save that
)t reason, and if we obtain the coincidence
> public op iion, \t is neither by force .01
tratagem. for we have no power to tern
y, no artifice to cajole, no fund to fedine.
iere we lit—without mace or beadle. ue»
her a 11 yftery nor a cr ft, nor a corpora
ion.—ln four words lies ill our power,
JNIVERSAL EMANCIPATION, a d
REPRESENTATIVE LEGISLATURE;
ieL we are confident that on the pivot o!
hi principle, a convention, —still iefs— j
ociety—lefs ftill—aliugle man, will be able,
irit to move, and then to raise the world.
We, therefore, wish for Catholic emaiui
)atio;i without any modification, but (til.
,ye coafider thi necefliiry enfranchife
nent as mereiy the port .1 to the temple oJ
lat.onal freedom ; wide as this entrance
a —wide enough to admit three million-,
t is narrow, when compared to the capa
:ity and comprehension of our b <>ved
jrinciple, which takes 111 every individual
>f the Irish nation, calls an equal eye over
he o hole island, embra< e> ail that tin k,
ind feels for all that fuffer. The Catho
ic cause is to our cause, and
ncluded in it, tor a* UNI 1 ED IRIbH-
Vlr.N, w adhere to 0 feet, but to 1 >«. iet>;
o no creeu but chn iianity , to no party
nit the whole people. —I"- the fin. e: it) oi
>ur fouls, do we dtlire catholic euunc pa
ion ; but were it obtained to-morrow,
o-morrow would we go on, as vv do to
lay. in the pursuit of the reform which
a ouid 11 ill be wanting to ratify their liber
lies as well as our own.
For both these purposes it appears necef
*ary that provincial conventions fhouid as
emb-e preparatory to a convention of the
ProteUant people. The delegates of the
:atholic body are not jultified in commu
nicating with individuals, or even bodies
if inferior authority, and therefore an as
embly of a similar nature and organiza
[ion is necelfary to eflablifh an intercourfc
?f fentimeit, an uniformity ot conduct, an
united caufe,and a united nation. If a con
mention on the one part does not foorr fol
low, and is not soon connected with ti.a.
on the other, the common cause w ill fplil
into the party a I i itereft, the people w iii 1 e
lax into inattention and inertness—the
union of affection and exertion w ill dif
solve, and too probably some local i..fui"
region, instigated by the malignity of our
:ommon enemy, may commit the charac
ter, and risque the tranquility of the lfl. nd,
which can be obviated only by the influence
if an afleinbly arising from, assimilated
with the people, and whose spirit may be
as it were knit with the foul of tne nation.
Unless the sense of the protellant people
be, on their part, as fairly collected and
as juditioufly direaed, unless individual
exert 011 consolidates into collective
strength. unless the particles unite into a
mass, we may perhaps serve some person,
or some party lor a little, but the public
not at all. The nation is neither insolent,
nor rebellious, nor feditiou^; while it
knows its rights, it is unwilling to manifefi
its powers ; it would rather supplicate ad
mi nift rati on to anticipate revolution by a
w ell timed reform, and to save their coun
try in mercy to themselves.
The 15th of February approaches, a day
ever memorable in the annals of this coun
try, as the birth day of new Ireland—Let
parochial meetings be held as soon aspof
lible. —Let each parish return delegates.
Let, the sense of Ulster be again declared
from Dungannon on a day auspicious to
union, peace, and freedom, and the spirit
of the north will again become the spirit
of the nation. The civil aflembly oughi
t'> claim the attendance of the military al
bciatidiis, and we have addrt fled you, ci
t.zen soldiers, 011 this fubjeft, from the be
lief thatyour body, uniting conviction witi
zeal, and zeal with ailivity. may havt
much influence over your countrymen
your relations and friends- We offer on
ly a general outline to the public, &l mean
ing to address Ireland, we pi t fume not a
present to fill up the plan or pre occup;
:lie mode of its execution. We havi
thought it our d ity to speak : answer 11
by actions, you li.ive taken time for con
[deration. Fourteen long years are el p
fed lince t le rife of your aflbciafoiis ; am
i) 1"8j, did you imagine that in 1792
:his nation would dill remain unprefented i
How many nations in this interval hav<
gotten the dart of Ireland ! How nianj
jf our countrymen have (unk into tht
jrave 1
address
r o the king of Great-Britain, moved i>
the Hiufe of Commons, 011 Thurflay. thi
zi/t of February, by Air. Grey, on tht
propriety of goii.g to war with trance.
[This address does infinite honor to thai
Inning character. It puts the queition ir
ts true aspect. and fliews unanfwerubJj
hat neither wisdom nor vigour have beer
xerted on the part of the Rnglilh minif
-1 y to avert from their country, in the da)
>f unexampled prosperity, the evils o;
.var.] N B. The Addrels was reje&ed.
pHAT an humble Address be prefentec
to hi- rnajefty, to allure his majedj
hat his faithful commons, animated by <
j.'.tcra -nd dutiful auachmfrrt to his yer
oil and family, and to the excellent con
tirntion of this kingdom, as well as by ar
irdent zeal for the interelt and honour ol
he nation, will at all times be ready tc
npport his majedy in any meal'nres whicl
t iiue übfervance of the iaith ot treaties,
he dignity ot his crow n, or the feenrity o<
lis dominions, may compel him to under
lake.
Th.it feeling the mod earned folicitud
o avert rom our country the calamine
if war, by every means confident witl
loilour and with fafety. we exprclltd t"
lis niajefty, at the opening of tile j.relt u
effion, " our fenfeot the temper and p> u
' dcce which had induct d his m jtfty t<
observe a drift neutrality with refpcc
' to the war on tne continent. & uniform
' ly to ab lain from any interlerence in tht
' internal affairs ot France and otn
lope that the fleps his majedy had ta
ten Would have the happy tendency " tc
• render a firm a.d temperate conduit ef
• lech; I for preferring the blcfltngs o:
• peace."
That, with the deeped concern, we now
ind ourftlves obliged to relinqtiilh tha
lope, without any evidence having bee:
produced to latisiy 11s that his majesty'
ninilfers have made such efforts as it wa
:heir duty to make, and as, by his majef
niofl gracious speech, we were tanghi
:o expect, for the preservation of peace
—11 is 110 less the refolutioii than the dtitj
jl his maj fly's faith lul commons to fc
ond his efforts in the war thus fatall)
ommenced, so long as it I'iall continue ,
ant we deem it a duty equally incumbent
ipon us to solicit his majelty's attention t
:hofe reafunsor pretexts, by which hisfer
/antshave laboured to judify a conduct or
:heir part which we cannot but consider a;
laving contributed, in a great measure, to
jroducethe pi tfenl rupture.
Various grounds of hostility againf
France have been dated, but none thatap
jeared to us to have condituted such a:
urgent and imperious cafe of necefiity a
eft no room for accommodation, and inad(
war unavoidable. —The government o;
France has been accused of having violatec
thelawcf nations, and the deputations o
exiding treaties, by an attempt to deprive
the republic of the united provinces of th«
cxclulive navigation of the Schilck. Isc
evidence, however, has been offered u
convince u- that this exclusive navigatior
was, either in itfel. or in the estimation o:
those who were alone intereded in pre
ferring it, of such importance as to judify
a determination in our government to
break with France on that account ; it, in
(ast, the dates general had Ihewn a dispo
sition to defend their right by force cf
arms, it might have been indance of the
trued frier.dfhip to have f'j£geded.to them,
[Total No. i 56.]
(or their serious consideration, How far the
aijertion of tliis unprofitable claim might,
in the prtfent circumstances of Furope,
tend to bring into hazard the moll elfen
tial interells of the republic.—But when,
on the contrary, it ha- been acknowledged
that no requisition on tliis fubjecl \\ as mad£
to his m jrfty, on the part of the Hates
general, we a:e at a loss to comprehend otl
what grounds of right or propriety we
take the lead in aflVrtmg a claim m which
we are not principals, and in which thS
principal party lias not, as far as we kltlow'j
though; it prudent or to call for
our interposition.
We muil further rem rk that the | o:nt
in di pure seemed to u to have been re
lieved from a material part of its difficulty,
by the declaration of the h inn er pt fo
reign aif iirs in France, that tne French na
tion gave up all pretentions to deter
mine the question of the future navigation
of the Scheldt. Whether the terms oj this
declaration were perfeiily fati. factory or
not, they at leiril left the qneftion open to
pacific negotiation ; in which the intrinftc
value of the object, to ai y of the parties
concerned in it, might have been coolly and
impartially weighed against tht conicquen
ces.to which any of them might be exposed
by attempting to maintain it by force of
arms.
We have been called upon to resist views
of conquest and aggrandizement entertain
ed by the government of France, " at ail
" times dangerous to the general intereflt
"of Furope, but" aliened 10 be - ' ptcnli
'■ arly so, when connected with the propa
" gution of principles, which lead to ihe
" violation of the 1110 ft sacred duties, and
" are utterly subversive of the peace and
" order of" all civil society."
We admit, that it is the interest and du
ty of every member of the commonwealth
i>f Kurope tofupport theeftutrtiftred fyfiem,
ind dillribution of power among the inde
pendent sovereignties, which actually lub
llt, and to pre'vnt the aggrandizement of
myflate, efpeeially the moll powerful, at
heexpcnie of any other ; and, for the
lonour of his majesty s councils, we do
ndlt earntftly wilh, that his n.iniflers had
iiianifeltcd a juli fenl'e of the inportai.ee
>f the principle to which they i ow appeal,
n thecourfeof late events, which seemed
:o us to threaten its entire dtlhuiiion.
W hen Polx.d was beginning toiecover
from thelang calamities of anarehy, com
bined uitii Oj-.p. effion ; after (lie had <fta-
aliflied an hereditary and limited n.onar
.hy like ourown, and was pi ace: I'iy em
sJoyetl in fettling her internal ppvert mcnt,
lis majelfy's ministers, with apparent indif
erence and unconcern, have leen her be
ome the viitim of the moil imp. o\iked
ind unprincipled invasion ; het territory
•verrun, her free couftitution subverted,
ier national independence annihilated,
md the general principles of the security
if nations wounded through her fieie.
With all these evils was France scon after
hrea'teticd, and with the fame appear nee
?ither of lupine indifference, or of let ret
ipprobation, his majefly's ministers hehelcl
h.' armies of other powers (in evident
jonecrt with the opprellor of Polhi d) ad
vancing to the invasion and subjugation of
France, and the march of those ai mies oif
inguifhed from the ordinaly hofiilit ie of
.iVilized nations, by inanifeltoes. whuh, if
heir principles and menaces had bten tar
led into pratfee mutt have nev t bhpio
ilicert the " return of tnat fcri ory and
' barbarism in war, which a beiufic< n£
1 religion, and enlightened manners. and
•' true military honour, have for a long
• time banished from the cfnlltlan world.'
No effort appears to have been n . < e to
heck the prog reft of tin fe invading ar
nies;—his nnjefty'sminifters, a dtrap e
nded refpeft lor the rights art) rdf p< li
cence of other fove.eigns. thought h at
lliat time, to refufe even the intei pofnieti
of his majefly's councils at d gocd i fl ces,
teifavefo grtat and in portal.t » p'jVtioi. of
Furope from falling tn der tie <•' n •' ion
o a foreign power. But no fo> nt r. by an
fver mttnoi able reverse ol t iluiie. had
b rame repulsed her invader and carried
her arms into their territory, than hi; ma
jesty's minilters. laying ailde the codufive
indifference which had marked the.r con
duel during the invasion of Frame, be fan
to expre'fi alarms for the general security
of Europe, which. a< it appears to us. thejr
ought to haveferioufly feb, and n mht'fiave
exprefied. with gre; ter jnflice, on'the pre
vious fucctflts of her powerful adverfa#
ries.
We will not dlflVir.ble our opinion, th.'.S
the decree »t' ti-e national convention ofFrance of the 19th of November, 1792, was
in a great measure liable to the objections
urged againlt it; but we can. 10: admit tlu t
a war, upon the iingle ground oj such a de
cree, unaccompanied by any overt aCts, by
•which we or our allies nngtit be directly
attacked,would be jultiiied as neceifary.aiHl
unavoidable. Certainly not —unlcfs, upoi:
a regular demand made by his majesty's
miniiters of explanation and feenrity in be
half ot us and our allies, the French had re
luted to give his majeity such explanation
and security. No fuc!i demand was made.
Explanations, it is true, have been receivec
and rejected. But it well deserves to bt
remarked and remembered, that tnefe ex
planations were voluntarily offered on the
part ot France, not previously demandec
on ours, as undoubtedly they would have
been, if it had suited the views of his ma
jelty's ininilters to have acted frankly and
honourably towards France, and dol tc
have reserved their complants for a future
period, when explanations, however rea
sonable, might come too late, and hoitilities
might be unavoidable.
After a review of all those considerations,
we think it neceli'ary to represent to his
majeity, that none ot the points which were
in dispute between his miniiters and the go
vernment of France, appear to us to have
been incapable of being adjulted by negoti
ation, except that aggravation of French
ambition, wnich has been stated to arift
from the political opinions of the Frencl
nation. 1 tiefe indeed, we conceive,form
ed neither any delirable object of negotia
tion, nor any intelligible reason for holtili
ly 1 hey were equally incapable of
adjulted by treaty, or of being either res ut
ed or confirmed by the events of war.
We need not state to his majesty's v\ if
dom, that iorce can never cure delusion
and we know his majelty's goodness toe
Well to suppose, that he could ever enter
tain the idea of employing force to deProj
opinions by the extirpation of those whe
hold them.
The grounds, upon which his majefty'i
miniiters have advii'ecf him to refufe the re
newal of (bine avowed public intercourse
with the existing government of France,
appeared to us neiiher juftifnd by the rea
son of the thing itfelf, nor by the usage oi
nations, nor by any expediency arifingfroir
the present state of circumstances. In al
negotiations or difcullions whatsoever, ol
which peace is the real objeCt, the appear
ance ot an amicable disposition, and of 2
re idiiiefs to offer and accept of pacifi: ex
planations on both fides, is as necessary and
ufeful to enfnre success, as any arguments
founded 011 striCt right. Nor can it be de
nied, that claims or arguments of any kind,
urg.d in hollile or haughty langu igb, hou -
ever equitable or valid in themselves, art
more likely to provoke than to conciliate
the oppolite party. Deploring, as we have
ever done, the melancholy event which lla
lately Happened in France, it would yei
have been some -consolation to us to have
h.ard, that the powerful interpolit'on ol
the Britilh nation on this subjeCt, had at
lead been offered, although it lh»uld unfor
tunately have been rejected. But, instead
of receiving such consolation from the con
duit of his majesty's miniiters, wehavefeen
them with extreme altonifhment employ
ing, as an incentive to hoitilities, ail event,
which they had made no effort to aveit by
negotiation. This inaction they could on
ly excuse on the principle, that the inter
nal conduct of nations (whatever may be
our opinion of its morality) was no proper
ground tor interpolition and remonltrance
from foreign Mates—a principle, from which
it mult ftil 1 more clearly follow, that such
internal conduit could never be an adm f
fible, juility ng reason for war.
We cannot refrain from ohferving, that
such frequent allulions as have been made
to an event (confefledly no ground of rup
ture) feemeel to us to have arisen from a
finflter intention to derive, from the hu
manity of : nglilhinen,popularity for mea
sures, which tneir deliberate judgment
would have reprob ited. and to influence
the molt virtuous sensibilities of his majes
ty's people, into a blind and furious zeal for
a war of vengeance.
His majesty's faithful Commons therefore,
though always determined to ffipport hi
luajelty with vigour and cordiality in the
exertions necefi'ary for the defence of hi
kingdoms, yet feel that they are equally
bounel bv their duty to his majesty. and t<>
the»pfellow-fubjects,todeclare,in the moll
solemn manner, their difappvo'jation of the
conduCt of his majelty's ministers, through
out the whole of these transactions ; a con
duct, which in their opinion could lead to
no other termination, but that, to which it
seems to have been (tudioufly directed, ot
plunging thfcir country into an unnecessary
war. The calamities of such a war mult
be aggravated, in the estimation of every
rational mind, by reflecting on the peculiar
advantages of that fortunate lituatioti,
which we have so unwisely abandoned, and
which not o.ily exempted 11s from lharing
in the diflreffes arid affliaions of the other
nations of Europe, but converted them into
sources of benefit, improvement, and pros
perity to this country.
We therefore humbly implore his majes
ty's paternal goodness to listen no longer to
the councils, which have forced us into this
unhappy war, but to embrace the earliest
occasion, which his wisdom may discern,'
of reltoring to his people the bieiiings of I
peace.
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
Official account of the takh.g of Breda by
the French, oti the 23d of ietruary.
La(t Saturday, the 23d instant, about
half after eight o'clock, a trumpeter, ac
companied by a French officer, arrived be
fore the gates of Bosch, and were conduc
ted to the commandant, whom they sum
moned in the name of General Dttmou
rier, to surrender this city. The com
mandant sent an answer about 12 o'clock,
implying a refufal; ttoflilities commenced
about hull alter 3 o'clock ; the French
threw some and howitzers into the
city : the firft was so well directed, that it
tell before the guard house, and wounded
a grenadier. By the subsequent bombs fe
deral houses were damaged; the alarm
was immediately be:it, and the militarj
took their respective stations. From th it
time the bombardment became very vio
lent, and uninterruptedly till fevei
o'clock at night, when all was still for
Come time.
On Sunday morning, about half after
three o'clock, the French bombardment
became extremely violent, and was weli
answered by thegarrifon. It lasted till se
ven o'clock, and during that time the
French threw in 150 bombs and howit
zers, which demoiifhcd more than lixty
houses.
The damage might still have become
greater,&couldnot poffiblybe repaired,(ince
no person durst appear in the llreets to
catch the bombs and extinguilh the fire,
and every inhabitant fought refuge' in the
cellar ps his house.
On Sunday towards noon, another ftaff
officer with a trumpeter, arrived before
the gate of Bosch, and was again conduc
ted to the commandant, to furpmon the
city again, threatening to reduce the place
to aihes, and to put the whole garrison -to
the sword. After this, the firft council oi
war was held, and towards night a • Major
with a trumpeter were dispatched ito the
French General, who remained with the
trench all night and did not return till
MoncTay mormrtg, when we heard that the
capitulation was made.
We u ere then informed, that the garri
lon I hold d march out with all the honours
of w ai, each battalion with two field pie
ces, to Bosch, I hiel, Bommel, and
Utrecht, with perfeif liberty to remain in
the lervice of tiieltale, and to pgainil
any enemy.
In virtue of this capitulation, this after
noon about four o'clock the battalion 01
Orange-Naflau, with a part of that of
Dam, marched, drums beating, colours
flying, and two field pieces, through the
fates oi Boftjhi
At three o'clock about 450 men, infan
cy and Cuirallicrs, entered this place from
the French camp.
Fortunately few lives have been loft:.
One burgher was killed by a bomb, and an
apothecary's wife dangerously wounded.
Thegarrifon have not loft a lingle man.
What number the French have loft we
cannot tell.
Stockholm, Feb. I.—A war between
this country and Russia has been deemed
probable ; it now appears inevitable.
Advice was this day received, that a
Rullian army 0f'24,000 men had been for
med on the frontiers of Swedilh Finland.
The ace tint has occasioned great alarm,
and Count Cederllrom, the new adjutant
general, has received orders to march to
rhe frontiers, and with Inch forces as he
may be able to aflemble, to oppose the
Ruffians should they attempt an invasion.
This city is in a (fate of the utmolt fer
mentation.
Troops are daily arriving in this capital;
ind the duke regent has issued a procfa
nation, Hating for reason of these extra
>rdinary movements— that Count Gylden
tolpe. governor to his Swedilh majesty.
lad 1 epi efenttd to him that hi; majeliy'-
ife_was ingreat danger ; and that a con
piracy asa nll the (late had been entered
nto by fever d persons.
Amjt.rdam, Feb. 20. Several courier
nave been dispatched from hence to Ma
jitricht, but tiiey are all returned, that
ity being completely blocked up by the
French detachments.
The lafl letters from Venlo were re
ceived on the 14th instant, they state, that
lince the Pruflians have entered Vonlo, and
the French have taken poff. ffion of the
Sconce of St. Michael, which lies opposite
to that polt, nothing important has hap
pened except some brilk cannonades on
both fides.
Aix !a Chape lie, Feb. 9. —We are in
formed, that the French advanced polls,
alter an obstinate conflict, forced the Auf
tr'ians to evacuate Wallenberg, Berueln
and Effelt. The day before yellerday the
French troops took polfeffion of thervdla
ges of Vaels, Gulpen, and Herl, in Dutch
Guelderland.
B":.rdeaux, Feb. r4.—The diref?or O;
the custom-house made a report i-pon the
result of the embargo : 35 (hips belonging
to Holland, seven English, and one Kt.hiai.
ship have been seized.
li orms* Feb. r3. The army of.the allies
has loft, from the month of December to
tile 18th of January, by sickness or desertion.
9eoo men. Its number is now 36,000 men.
1 his is divided into three corps : tile firft
cotnpoled of 18.coo,fiai:ioned betwcca Con
Pance and OldLrifac: tbefecondof 12,000,
between Alurlbourg ami Scelengen ; the
lait oi 6000, between Fredericfelt and Ma'n
heim.
Edia of the Lords of the States of Holland
and Welt Friefland, declaratory of the
different difti i,ts ofthofe provinces wli'ich
were to be inundated—dated Feb. 14.
1 HF unpleasant circtimftances in which
.hefe provinces find themselves, obliges 11.
■ o have recourse to all the means that can
n any manner tend to their defence and
fafety ; and tliefe means we propcl'e to ex
ecute in proportion as the fear of aji hostile
invalion may increase.
" The firft expedient consists in inunda
tions of the country, and the fuKinerfion of
luch of the lands through which the enemy
may attempt to penetrate into the centre
of the two provinces. To effect these in
undations, the necessary preparations have
been made with our approbation : And as.
contrary to our intention, a panic may
spread among the peaceable inhabitants,
and chiefly the country people, in these pro
vinces; and as ill di/pofed persons nay ;:t
---tempt to frnftrate otir efforts, tending to
preserve, with the Divine blelTing, thgfe
provinces, 011 these accounts, and to fj uiet
the minds of all and every one. we declsrc
that no more land (hall Lr even] >wed iimn
is absolutely riecefl'ary to ci.e o!f; om int
enemy the approach to the forts and oth -i
ports capable of defence in the provinces,'
as v ell as its further advancement in them ;
and that all the damage which the people'
of the flat country may fnftain on tl.at ac
count, (hall be made good by the provincial
treasury.
" And that these :nilndation»may be ex
ecuted with the utinoll ef:< a, we enjoin ail
the intendants and infj.eaors of dykes', as
well as all bailiffs, jmiiciarie s, and inspec
tors of lands ll,tit up by dykes, in every dif
tria where inund tion may be necclfary,
to take the pr»pcr nie: lures, that in the
countries comprised in the said iiitmdatir.ns,
the mills may not lie, till further orders,
without water at their rrfpeaive openings
—as well as to aflilY with all their j ; wer,
those who may be authorized ir- 0111 1 oil 11- ;
fellors deputed to form these inundations ; j
under pain, that those among them who„ I
contrary to expea.ition, may be negligent j
in this affair, shall be rigoronfly punifh'ed ac- '
cording to the exigence of the iafe.
" Vv'e fofbid al! and every one by these .
jSfcfciits. to oppose the formation of these
inundations, by words, writing, or acts ;
under pain that Inch as shall be gui!tv of
fnch offences, shall receive corporal punifli
ment, or, according to the hemoufrfefs,
death. Proniiling to this efl'ea,' that those
who shall discover to our counsellor depu
ties. the authors of luch attempts, writings,
orblameabie actions, so thai they may'be '
convicted of the fame, shall be fully reL( 111-
penc-d, and pardoned, if they were accom
plices therein. To this effea our councilor \
deputies are autuorifed by these presents. ,
And to the end that none may plead igno
rance of it, but conform thennelves to it j
exaaiy, we authorize, by these prcCeiltr, ;
our deputy cnunfellon. that, by means of j
the comptroller-general of the forcifuati- \ \
ons, and fucJ) perfoiu as they and his high- !,
ness have charged or (hall charge with the |
formation of these inundations thev catife ,
to be pi.f'lifhed and affixed this declaration 1
in the diftrias where fnch inundations shall f
be judged inevitable, and in the usual
places."
The Dauphin has been proclaimed 1
king of France, under the title of Loui -
X V 11. at Coblentz, and acknowledged as ,
such by the king of Pruflia a d 'Emperor , ,
and Monlieur as Regent during the initio- !,
rity of hia nephew. Such conduct mav be j
fatal to the poor infant.
Par:!, Feb. 22.—Genera! Dumourier, ■
nas publilhed a proclamation to the Bata- 1
vians, announcing, that he was going to ■
advance, at tiie head of 30,00 c men, to v
deliver them from the slavery under which '■
they groan. n
They write front Leghorn, that the
French f'quadron deftineriYorthe Sardini- i
an expedition, was on the 23d ulf. station- "1
ed off Cagliari. That thev had ta. en the It!
little isles of St. Magdalen and St. Pierre, |l!
whose garrison withdrew, after having fp ; - I a
ked their cannon, and moved their iiiiiit
artillery. •;
M. de Semonville, has embarked 011 H
hoard a merchantman, for Conkantinople, '
having been compelled to yield up tlie Ju- n
110, in which he was to have failed, to Ad . <
miral I ryguet, for the Sardinian expedi- b!
tion. L 1 Ptrle, and the (tore ihip La Ga
barre perilhed in the llorm of the 21 it. _bi
t 11-is gene: ally believed, that Garntwill pi
be nominated miniUer of the home depart-, ih
ment, and that Cobier, Lcretarv" to th '
department, will succeed him as" minifLi
or justice. r i
Many of the French privateers have beet. '■>.
1011.pelted to put back, ill confecjuence o. °
bad weather, without having t en a fit; .;e
pi ize. Others have brcn ve;y fneeef
Many privateers are lifting" o'ut at ..
vre-de-C.i ace, nionnting in u: 15 to ;c
32, 40, and even 50 t,i;.is.
Three hundred and forty seven volames,
and 3j boxee, forming the remainder of
the title and j i .gies of the ancient
orders of the m b lity, ..re to be burnt to
morrow ill tile Place de s Piques.
YYe are informed by letters from Brett.
;hat the following frigates, la Bellona, la
P roit rpine, la C !c atre, 6'. FF.ngageante,
..1 il4 ft li mn thenc. onthe /th, in order to
crude in tne Bntifti channel- Several
large privateers wLie expetted to f.,il in a
lew clays. * '
S-übfiance of Gen. JJ'tmoinier's Proclama
watiou t« the Dutch.
" Upon fcpiiblican principles, the Stat
'older is only your captain general; who
fhoiiid irt in (>bui ,ence to the sovereign
All l holds y.iii neverthelef- in ilaveiy.
ou kiijKv v'our rights—ycu lately at
tempted to r.".ire them—you applied to
lia..ce, but Fr.. < e then groaned ander
equ J defpotilui ; ■ d you were made the
fpoi t of her p... iulidiis court.
• nendlii) oi prnflians again reduced
you to [ very ; led on by that man whom
i navech ied from France—the hope of
liberty among jou has been extinct, til! the
period of the gku i • ms revolution of France;
t-e French now -.jt. i themselves your al
oes—powerful and free.
Notagai. i ■ people, but aga-mft your
tyr-ii:ts we v . •\t r—The.Englilh—proud
oi uoerty, are milled by gold a..d *»» of
v.'hmn i .lev \\ ill ioon tire. Let our erie
mies inerea'fi im io'd, it will but inere fe
ouHtuii ~i propagate our inions.
ei".. i- / Joli -::. tl the friend" of the
■ nteh, arid the e:ieraie» of the house of
Orange—yo'u tanhot but feel its galling
yoke—has not the ftadtholder fatrliked
our intcrej to iiis own —facrifi-ed your
!L ''' ' ! . wci.tis (o that of ].rp.lai:d ?
t gi eatnefsyou will never regain till you
are free. " 6 3
s < hack your despots to Germany ; a
repi blicaii army pr.ee rpt', fed will fon'n
bieak Hie force tyranny—(ben will the
t: ucps jml the brave faiiors of I 'olla.id be
one body of men v.ith those of Fr a-ue.
The lirfl of-,., : nd'fo. wa. d friall enjoy
the fir ft fpoi I v of lyrarir.v !
lam -:t ' he .1 of 6c,oqr free and ever
victorious Freni: n eu-£ c ,< en« le the
defender, "1 : :,t, are re. d\ to tea < w
i e it needful- \\~• go to fe't; atfl-e F . gue
! :e jihater.- a-aii:!l our ant!; our life. tie —
ror theiu w'e reie i ve our vengeance.
Bata\ ians,_£onrie!e in a man vhofe mine
isk.iuun to j ::—who le els Frenchmen
to battle, be., re win m hae'e ficd the i rx
lants of jour tyrant. Toe Belgians tall
me t;-,.;:- deliverer, 1 will fpcedily he
\ ours . '
D A . Mcwifjflo.
In a, i »'er to Gc Dumourier's Proclama
tion. a nia I cli'o has been published,
by the Da government, which ton
cllldt tl.ll :
: WE .' ather expefl that all citizens,
J"''S ,!t ' Vj.a,ty fp.ru which difu
mtes teem, \\ I'l i ,te their elForts to < urs
and to,thofe oi a,I the true, jrit; <ls of his
< i atiy, io e > (i ami pieferye. under
d.vine protet ion. the ten- ttiry which has
1 . /en them 1 . il , and in which they hue
bee b|-ef! t t - ey will /iiatih religion
and tru- tilci ty. tl.ofe guarantees of our
ppine.v Itt. ithe infuj>j-orrable yoke of
O' eigy and barbarous hordes.— V< e ex
>fl every rh Iron] their courage .i d
" ) ; cl y : " v are persuaded that they
a '' "e' li ; r tl' .'iilelves to be intimida
c' ' e e J ' rerattd llaterrent of the
one s li:eh ait i eprefenttjd as ad\ancing
igaii.il them: \t e ■ persuade .ourselves,
: ttaey w ii rteicher forget the invinci
,iev our v . .: » ii.eb our immortal aneef
ors r .i.ied (;k ctl ully thele very French
'■ ,tl '• f"" wl e;i the greatefl powers
u , ure; ed:ci cir, as at this day,- combat
• h i . ut «>•> the other hand, wen
'■ - :( t enemies;—nor the fl tll -
t" nol oi;r t iv, which more efpccial
•;iis • oj,poles uafurmountablc
■ i ieies to ■ I: ;• ,e invasion ; no, the-di
'£'• teoaiic! i t i-getic activity of the
"' lll ■ Wi will neglect nothing t®
-•■tiret efv . I:, of our common efforts;
or, , tlie< eaeious fucc ours neex
- h> efrom our faithful allies.
• 1 i ortant conliderations,
U '.V 11 ,a > - i ii a motive to confirm
1 tion to facrifke every
,n > 111 1- c'l 1 ■' e of their dear country,
e ii. i.l n e their view the.exam
!<? \ ' 1 ■ .ours the inhabitants of
";-A- '.a i 'lands, who have cal
o ou and welcomed as friends, the very
en r • who '„.a to call himfelf their de
verer. and tho.'e very Frenchmen he
an ilia: s ; thole Belgians now reap the
t '' !l 1 1 ate.. ir heedless credulity.
' l! yn , prente and all-puiflant
.v.ho ! i: often extricated this re-
ic rem t imminent dangers;
to preserve it at this day from such
<: v ;! ' e ' ■' 1 from such friends."
—' e inveftnient ofMaerlt
ch , : •' 'N made on the right
.• f" ' * "e, and upon the height
" t a crrps of 15,c00 men at
ph.ee, which only cott
'' ' • • erdayfummoned the
ei that he would not
1 . ir.g eort;menced that
is--- ' '- 1 -' after we difeoveredtnatfome part of the town was on fire
which however the enemy extinguifheu.
This morning the flames broke one afrefh,
and the town is this moment burning.—
The enemy have made two ('allies, one by
the gate of Vie, and the other by that of
St. Peter ; but they were repuifed with
The war minister Was announced a viao
ry of conliderable importance, gained by
the army of general Biron, over a body oi
Auftrians anil Piedmontefe, at Sot'pello.
Biron having gained intelligence, that a
corps of 2coo men had taken port at Sof
pello, with a view of securing the advan
ced polti of Nicf,dilpatchcd about 800 men
under the command of Dagobert and bru
net, todiflodge them: These officers con
ducted this eiiterprize withfuch ability and
resolution, that they carried their point.
The attack was vigorous and the defence
obstinate, but the e lemy at last gave way,
leaving behind 300 Austrian prisoners,
among whom was Major Strafoldo, cuu
fin to th • general of that name, and. feve
rrl other offset's. The greatell praise
£ iven by general Biron to the oflicers and
soldiers under his command.
Marie Antoinette a:'d her family nave
not yetftirred nut of the apartment which
they occupied the temple- The day be
fore vefterday in the commissioners of the
Commune invited them to go down into
th" garden to l.*!ie the air, and to enjoy the
benefit of the tie weather.. The widow
of Louis thanked them, and refufed then
offer, faying,that "'twould be too pain
ful to her to j>afs by the door of the cham
ber from which her hnlband had been led
to the place of execution."—She alio le
fufedto go up 011 the platform of t.ie Greai
Tower, at least for the prefent.—Hei
daughter continues to be ill, the fwellini;
in her legs is not abated.
Cagliari (Sardinia) Jan. 2j.—° n t ' :c
2 ift! inft. aFrehch Ihip of the line and a
bomb ketch appeared before the iflar.d 01
St. "Pierre,which was immediately surren
dered to the French, tde commandant ha -
ving previously retired to this p ace wit.,
adetachment of 800 men, brought wl'at
provisions they could and spiked the can
non they le't behind. Ihe trench !ia\c
also taken the island of Antioch.
V'efterday the French fleet, confining oi
19 ft ps of the line, anchored in this har
bor. The admiral sent a detachment of
20 men 011 fliore with the national flag and
an officer, who demanded the furrendei
of the place ; but the lieutenant of the
port cautioned them not to advance : ami
when they arrived near the patrick house,
the) Sardes killed the drummer and 1'
others ; the reft retreated to the It
is expected that the town will be bombar
ded this morning.
LONDON, Feb. 22.
The true reason of the rife of two per
cent, in the dividend on India Stock is tc
sugar the pill which they are to be forced tc
swallow. The minister knows will that
he cannot go on without relieving the
market from a part of the floating paper,
and yet in the prefer temper of the times
to fund the navy, and lay additional taxes
on'the people, wou'd r .ot be the belt
means of drawing them on blindfold,to the
definitive and unintelligible war in whicil
they have plunged 11s. It is a faler ma
noeuvre than to take the India Bonds out oi
the market, which will at as a temporary
aid to lis scheme of finance, and at leati
p->:fpone the gloomy day when a thoroug!
account ntuft be rendered.
Tliefe bonds are 10 be converted intc
stock, and thus the great calamity, the In
dia c ipital, is to be increased two millions,
A dictionary of the Engliili Language,
lik the court Calender, ought to be prin
ted annually, for every year our words ad
mit of new definitions. Thus an Eriglijl
j~./ 1 means ail armament, an India),
j'iirplusjoan.
The Dtrch have four fortified places
M.'iiftricht, li.-eda, Ber A en-op Zoom. am
Bois-le-Duc. Of these Bergen-op-Zoom
only is open to the East Scheldt, and ma;
confeLjuently be relieved by the sea. Tc
this garrison then, perhaps, our gillani
prince, and his few bra e followers, are
to be sent. We seem to be acting pre
cisely on the plan of the American war.
The enemy is avowedly 60.c00 Ifrong,
and we are to fend 1500 to repel him.
However we may have got into the war,
war muftbe Supported. This country
cannot, must not fee the French extend
their maritime frontier through the whole
sea line of the Dutch territory ; but if we
are to avert this fatality, we must begin by
addressing the crown to remove the mini
fters, whofeimbecile councils, in bringing
us into the calamity, give us no confidence
in their talents to conduit it.
For /ta National Gazette-
To the Militia of Philadelphia.
Fellow Soldiers,
tT has been, and I am, fearful still is, the
* difpolition of all governments to con
'pire against the people: they appear to
■ orni separate interests, iind the many are
-Jwaysthe objects of pre;y to th efsw. This
disposition produces a sympathy among
governments, and whenever power is the
uiijett, arid there is no jarring ot other in
terelts to oppo e it, they are always ready
to afford each other aid. It is this which
nas produced the cimibi ation of govern -
mints againll the people of France. In
the infancy of governments, when the voice
of the people is conlidercd as the voice or
God, the people have their full (hare oi
conlideration, because they are then the
power oi' the nation ; but in proportion a
manhood approaches, a:.d governors
their authority with the vigor
of the government, the peopie are viewed
at secondary beings in the scale of thing
The example of 1" ranee has llrutk terror
intoa\\governments, &: itappearsasif ours
wasfeized with the panic, and was difpo
led to exercise the governmental sympathy
which European nations feeni to teel. Io
reason a priori upon the fubje£t, we should
be led to conclude that men who ityled
themselves republicans wouldfeel foreach
other ; but if we recur to experience, and
the immediate facts before us we lhall dis
cover that a republican government is
lending its sympathetic feelings to manar
chy. By a treaty formed between France
and the United States in the hour of adver
sity, we guaranteed certain things to f ranee
if Hie u ould lend us her afhlfance ; Hie has
been faithful to her contrast, while we
leem to be flirinking from our faith, 'lis
true that we Yormed this treaty with the
monarchy ot France, and it will no doubt
be explained ..way by every friend to that
Ipecies of government. But 1 will alii,
what were our objects when we applied to
France for relief? Torender our/elves free.
What .s the prt sent objeil of tne Frencli
nation -?—to render her/elf free. 'Ought
not then the analogy of our circumstances,
independent bf every other conlideration.
tn ca life a favprable difpoiition towards
France ?
It we are republicans in substance and
not in lhadow tne aauver will be very ea
-1 y —11 is fa d, thai our coolness towards
France isfo great tuat meal'wres have been
[ •.ken by so .ie of the f officers of our gov
ernment; to prevent a joyful reception o!
cue French amballador The reason al
ledged for this .s uifulting to freemen—
it cannot be blotted from the memory ol
mir citizens that the present aiub.-iliadpr
was received with the ringing of bells ;
but as he was the ambalfador of n monarch,
i:id Mr. Genet is the ambalfador of a re
public he is to be received with less ref
jc£t. Is this difpolition friendly to uur re
public a! allies ?
Men are fond of precedent when it cor
responds with their views : but admitting
tiiere is no precedent for the tiring of can
non &c. (and I b. lieee there is) on the ar
rival of the ambaflador of France, ought
this to prevent it ? As republicanswe ought
to evidence oar attachment to republican
ism by the molt refpettful reception of the
representative of the people ot France.
Was there a precedent for the tiring ot
cannon on the arrival of a parcel of Java -
ies among usJome time ago who had been
butchering our citizens on the frontiers?
Are Frenchmen e titled to lejsrejpeit t ian
cavalcade of Indian chief's / PnHadel
phia was made to tremble with rejoicings
aecaufe a set of painted roomters arrived,
who came to be pampered, .nd return o
massacre as they h id done before; and the
amba]fador of is not conlidered en -
titled totiie fame reception •• becauje thsre
is no precedent O tempora ! O mores!
Hut, my fellow soldiers although fu'ch
lhould be the wi 11, such be the resolution
of the officers of govern » ent, you have too
much honor, too much g atitude, too much
republican virtue to perni.t it to operate
upon you ? Call to mind that it is the re
presentative o a people who have fought
for you, who have bicd for you, who is
expected.
Remember that France » j your fhiekl
in the hour of that she became
your friend when you were ie die , anil
that (he stretched torth the i i iga. mof
protection when you w ere e icom|.allnl oj
f oes ; —and if aftei such recolleciion ; >ou
will, hesitate t." welcome her amb H i'oi
with the rejoicings which have even been
fnewn to savages, I will mourn over tne
ieparted virtue of my country.
AN OLD SOLDIER.
April 23.
PHILADELPHIA.
Saturday, April 27-
A pilot arrived here yellerday from
Delaware Capes, bringing intelligence tli
the French frigate L'hmbulcade wn> oil
mdhjd taken the lhip Grange, outward
bound from this port to Liverpool, and
the brig Little Sarah, for Jamaica, which,
he added, were both on their return to
town, accompanied by the frigate. It
was also said by the pilot,that from the ac
counts he had received, the frigate had
captured in all seven vessels on the Ameri
can coafl, 4 sent to Charlelton, one to
New York, and two to this poTt.
L'Embufcade, and her two prizes, were
expe&ed up last evening, but it being ebb
tide and the wind N. E. none of them had
made their appearance when this paper
was put to press.
It is aflerted in a paper of the tSthirtft
printed a t S:ockbridge (fays a corivfpori
dent that '• from Georgia to Ne\V-Hamp
(liire, a collected majority or the people ol
the United States would applaud from the
heart, the Supreme Executive's non-ac
knov. ledgment of the ambanador from the
French republic." Such a fentiinent inuft
lie conlidered as difgraceful to Americans
as it is deilitute of truth ; and could only
have originated with some rotten hearted
fellow that would fell his country to Bri
tain for a "funding system."
Captain Storer, who arrived at New-
York on Monday last, from Charleston, in-
I'orms, that on Sunday the 14th infl. he saw
1 large Englilh flup from Bremen, going
into Charleston harbour, which had been
made a prize of by the French frigate I'E.m-
Tufcade—that i'ome French merchants in
Charleston were fitting out privateers;
:he l'ljmbufcade continued to cruize olf
Charleston, making thi bar in the morning,
and then (landing off the remainder ot the
:lay : and that the Britilh merchants there
were fearful to let their vessels leave port.
The French ambassador was in Charlcl
:on when Capt. Storer failed.
Capt. Storer further informs, that the
commander of the TEmbufcade, in order
:o render himfeif more secure, had offered
a lieutenant's coinmiffion in the French na
i'y, to any American who would undertake
:o att is pilot 011 board his vessel, and that
:he offer was embraced by Capt. Witti
liore of Boston.
" The public mind has been for some
:ime in a (tare of fufpence, as to the part
jur government would take in the pre
ent di!lurbances ; in Europe. It, was con
eded on all hands, that our best infercfts
peak peace hut by many it uasfeareck
h it existing treaties rend'eied it impofflble
hat we ould remain neutral. Thfc pub
it mind is now relieved from this a*ixieiy
>ythe proclamation of the executive, which
nforms us it is t|ie duty, as « ell as in
erelt ot the United States, to ait towards
he belligerent powers with perfect
lartialit
" It i» extremrly happy for this country
hat no treaty exists interfering with tin
it utrality which it is our interejl to keep
it the present juncture. Had we been o
iliged to take p irt with the French, our
jecuniiry'refour'ces would have been im
laired y a diminution of our in portand
lie credit of the United States would have
uftairied a proportionate Ihock. A greai
lappmejfs it is, that our plighted faith doe
lot 11a id in the way of thole w-rangeßieni!
111 which our paper credit is fuppoitcd. and
hat while Europe is rent by the fiend 01
.var, we can uurfe the bantling in the arm
if peace."
'rices current of American produce a^
Briltol, the 16th of February, 1793-
Pot Allies, firft, 30/— Pearl, ditto, 32/ to
;5f —Rice, Short price 18/—lndigo, Caro
ina, ij'3 to 5/6 —Pitcii 8/ — Tar i~J to 18/
—Turpentine 9/6 to 10/ —Bees wax 91. t'
ol.—Deer Skins in the hair, per lb. 1
o ißd —ditto, half drelfed—do —22(1 to
>/—■ Pint boards and Plank.pcr 100feet,10/
:o [ —Oak ditto—do 14/ to 1,6/— Pipe
laves, red oak 101. 10/ —White oal. i6i
16/—Hhd H O }1. 5/-W.O. 81.8/—Bam 1
XO. 4I —W. 0.51. 10.— Flour firft 18/ per
:wt._Wheat 6/9 per bum.—Pig-Won 61.
:o 71. per ton —Tobacco 2d 1-2 to 4c!
)er lb.
Extrall of a Letter, dated Dublin, March 4.
lt The confufion the Hone of Lords arc
laily throwing this city into, by their ar
bitrary government, prevents me from get
. ng forw aid. If any person reflects on their
ncafures; they are summoned before tlu n
ecret committee, and there examined b)
:he Lord Chancellor,or some of the bilhops
»nd Lord-, that form that committee. An
ict has been lately palled, received the roy
il afl'ent, and put into execution before M
..rattan knew a"y thing about it, enabling
;overnmeiit to take fire arms from even
fefcription of people who were fufpectec
n be dii'jffc-cfed, and I was told Mr. c*rat
an laid he knew nothing of said bill until
t was put in execution.
" On Wednesday last the army went tc
:hf Liberty, and took a pieces of cariiinr
YOlll Mr. Tandy's corps ol volunteers—
- :d yefter'dav the honourable Simon But
ler, as chairman, and Oliver Bond, as fe
i retary to the society of United Irifhmcn,
were summoned before the lecret com
mittee. alluded to above, for publifhin"
their opinion. They were fined in £ 3 . 50c
each, and fix months iniprilonme-.it : in
ronftc|iience of which, they were sent to
Newgate, W here they now are.
" In Belfaft they are nearly mad, and tc
attempt to disarm the volunteers there,
« ould canfe immediate rupture. Govern
ment is fending cannon down to the North,
which indicates their suspicion that all wili
not terminate quietly."
Heads of the /ateji Foreign Intelligence.
The French had taken two frrorg for
treffes that fcciired to them the navigation
of the remained c-r.n -
pletely blocked up b detachments of
French forces ; fuctefs continued, to at-
tend the army under Gen. Rumourier, am!
it was univerl.illy expetted he would reac]l
Amlterdam by.tnc middle ot March—Tuo
h.igli/li ve'Uels liad oeen carried into Dun
kirk, valued at 4u0,000 livre's—Four oihers
into L'Orient, one of which was an Eift-
Luliaman wim a very rich cargo—The
Engliih cruil'ers had also made fonie prizei
fro u the French, bu moltly enfurtd in
England. The duke of V ork had landed at
Helvoeifluys,with the 2000 guards that had
failed from England tor Holland, to aflift
agauill tiie French—Every thing wore the
appearaitce of tiie fiercelt contelt, during
tlie ensuing Cummer, to decide whether
universal despotism or republicanism Ihoulfl
prevail, tne canfc of virtue and equality, or
the cauie of wicked and envenomed tyrants.
ExtraCt of a latter from a Britifli merchant
in Philadelphia, to his friend in Liver*
pool, dated April 2£d, 1 -,113.
"In a conversation I had withyouat
ohr friend 13 '5, one evening Han tly be
fore I embarked for this country hilt fun..
mer, I recollect the a t pi the nlidiis you tX
prelfed, lhat mould Great-Britain take an
active part in the w ar.ag.iinli Franc . fne
mml of couil'e be invp»\ed mi war with
America, to tlie uiur dt ruction of her
Welt-I.dia commerce, and the inevitable
loss of Canada. The tiiiie has come, how
ever, when Great-Britain lias acuial.y en
tered tlte lifts, and; 1 am happy to inform
you, thai so far from any hoiine thfpoiition
towards her discovering nfelt in'.the United
States, the conduceo; the Frentjh nation is
reprobated, with no fma.il t.egree of acri
mony, hi alnrtolt eveiy (oihpaiiy. It is t-riie.
tins is in lome meaQirp owing to the great
Ilia re of Brifnh influence, which prevaiHjil
the puncipai commeicial • town 9. \ oil
\v.i*u tl be aponilfied t-o fee with what fer
viie pliability niyjiy of tne printers on tllij
comment, join 11J furthering our views.
Ind'et d, it is no other than a return ot gra
titude, for being 11 a "great mealure flip*
ported by our 'they make
u.o scruple to rend, r their papers pleaiing
lo us. by pawling the conduct ofuhe > rerrcil
to .1 nit blacKelt colour?, whenever a ht
up onun ty occurs. 1 lie decapitation of
Louis was a.nJble fulijeit ot declamation,
a. d a very 1 general one' too ; for moil of
tlie people Have 110 opinion of their own.
but, ii.ee a p.c.e of bound ■, join in wl.ute-
v -i' try is railed by the 11 leaner!, many of
hoin ai e 111 our iiiterelt. I speak ot the
people ol tne cities ; 1 do not know that
-e Hand so well ir, ine country, gentrally:
nit tnis is not very material, as the y 0.,
~ amy have no great '\i eight,-' cdmpared
.til mat of.tne Bt mill merchants and their
friends in tlie cities—vVe are'allb aided
11 our endeavours to exciie prejudices a«
the Freucli, by lonic ol tli« molt in
iiueiltial officers oi g. —t, as well aB
ay the monied men who are lteckholder.s
ni the funds and nat onal bank ; for the tlu-
Lies on imports, which are chiefly from
reat-Bruain, arc the main support both
■if the credit and exiltenie of the govern
ment.
• I"hat these observations ai;e julf, you •
will be convinced, when you have read the
nclofedproclamation, in which the in.par*
':ality and neutrality oi' the United Stnttlj
1 ith refptit to all the belligerent powers,
ire declared ; noiwithllandiug that.Arhe
ica "is bound to aJ partially lowariU
1 ranee,- by .exijithg treaties- But neither
reaties nor gratitude lor the former friend
nip of the French nation w ill induce the
.v inericans to make any fat rifices of theft 1
uterejl. It is only to be feared that France
nay take in dudgeon the conduct of hcv
illy, and declare war againit her ; but e
ee 11 this would be advantageous to Britain,
ly depriving France of the supplies of pro
wlions with which America might other
wise furnilh her."
[From a CorreJ'por.dert.]
In one of the city gazettes of ApriT j£d. I
abferved a paragraph, in which it is faicf,
hat the French National Convention are a
et of rajcals for debauching the Engliflt
sailors, in offering them half of the .prices
.aprured from their nation.—Without fly
ing into a paflion about the matter, might
iot one reasonably ask, which of the two
k tokens the molt rascally conduct ; the dß
'eauchii.g people to learn the mult precious
a .'all human rights,or lofeize, w i .-.out the
'ormality of declaring w ..r, thirty lltvi.
met/, to throw them into prifon-ihipi, jaw,
and dungeons, where thile unfortunate
ne.rfons perished, unpitied and u'lrhcard ofr
uch, at lealt, was the condnfl of the Hng
ulh in i7sjand 17-6, and in part during the
■ hole war with America ;or the recovery
of her liberties. Let us add. to this lh->
plunder ofjSt. Eullatia, the tranlm liion of
merican prifoiiers to the l.afl li.diej, ; :-<i
a variety of other cireumftance; i.i cruelty ;
and an unprejudicedperlon w iil soon jut e
which of the tvjo nations are a set f
RASCALS.
This number (156) completes, one
■ car and a.half: papers. Persons in ar
rears for fix months, one year, or upw at t.',
re requefled to inafce ipeedy pay meiit.
hose w ritinv to tht- Editor ol tiie Nation
al' Gazette by the ptn-.hc mad, on buflncis,
are desired to tranfiilit their letters poll
paid, if they wifti to have them attcneict. to.The Ne"" Republican Con/litution of Francev,
Jnjlituted Jtnte the death of the ling.
[Ads idged.J
The object of a'l union of men in Soci
ety, being the maintaining of natural, civil,
and political righ s these rights ought to
be the bafts of the foiial compad. The
acknowledgnient and declaration of them
ought to precede the conllitution which
allures the guarantee of them.
Art I. Natural, civil, and political
rights, are liberty, equality, fecuri'y, and
property, the social contrad, and resis
tance of oppreflion.
2. Li erty consists in the power of do
ing every thing which is rot contrarv to
the right of ano her. Thus the exercre
of this natural right has no other limits
than those which secure to the members
of the f me society the enjoyment of the
fame right.
3 Every citizen oupht to submit to the
law which is the expr.flion of the gene
ral will. Whatever is not forbidden by the
law, cannot be prohibited ; and none can
be conllrained to do what it does nut en
join.
4 Every man has the liberty of mani
festing his thoughts, and his opinions.
5 The lib rty of the press, and every
other means of making known his fenti-
cannot be forbid Jen, suspended,
or limited.
6 Every citizen is free in the exercise
of his re'igion.
7 Equality consists in the enjoyment of
the f..me rights by every ci izen.
8 The law is equal to all, whether it
proteds or punithes.
9 All citizens are equally admifiible
to all appointments. Free people know
no other motive of preference than pre
eminence of talents and virtue.
I j Security confills in the protedion
granted to all the u'tizens, for the pre
fervation of their persons, of their fortunes,
and of their rights.
II None can be accused, (lopped, or
detained, but in cases pecifird by the
law, and according to thi forms it h«8 pre
scribed.
12 Th<[citizens against whom arbitra
fy atts may be exercised, have the right
to refilt then. byf-rce; but every man
accused or arrelted in virtue of the law,
ought to o<.ey it inllantly. He rende s
hiinfelf guilty by r fiftance, (N. B. a mtf
take in the order )
13 Those who so icit, expedite, exe
cute, or cause to be executed ar -ittaty
or .ers, are guilty, and ought to be punch
ed.
14 Every man ought to be prefnmed
innocent, till he has been declaied guilty;
if it is found neceiTary toanvft h 111, eve
ry rigo' not reqnifite to secure his person
ought to be severely interdided by the
law.
15 None can be punilhed but in virtue
of a law ellablifhed and promulgated an
terior to the crime, and lega'ly applied.
16 Every law which pum(his crimes
anterior to it promulgation is an arbi
trary ad. Every retrofped effed of law
is i crime
17 The law ought only to inflict ne*
cess .ry pi.nifl ment proportioned to the
crimes and ufeful to society.
18 The right of property is, that every
man may difpole of his substance, his
talents, and his industry.
19 No kind of labour or industry is
prohibited to citizens, who may buy,
fell, or transport it freely.
20 A c tizen however, cannot fell
himfelf, his petfon not being a.ienable
propei ty.
21 None can be deprived of iiis right
of property, but when public necessity,
leg-illy proved, evidently demands it,
and on condition of a just and previous
indemnity.
22 No contiibution can be levied but
for the public goad : all citizens have a
right to assent to its ellablifhment.
23 Public inllrudion is neceflary to all
24 Public luccours ate a debt due from
society.
25 The security of these rights is an
ast of sovereignty.
26 Sovereignty is one, indivisible, and
imprescriptible.
27 It resides eflentially in the people.
E ch citizen is equally entitled to exer
cife Sovereignty.
28 No individual, or any union of citi
zens can arrogate to themselves the ex
eicifes of Sovereignty.
29 The social compad cannot cxift,
where the limits of powers are not exad
ly fixed, and where agents are not made
vefponfible for their conduit.
30 All citizens are obliged to be aiding
to the law.
31 Men united in society ought to
have a legal means t)f refilling oppreflion.
32 There is oppreflion when the law
violates natural right, the<-e is oppreflion
when the law is violated by the public
fundionaries. There is oppreflion when
arbitrury ads violate natural,civil, and po
liti al rights of citizens. The manner
of refilling oppreflion ought to be prescri
bed by the conllitution.
33 The people have the right ofchange
ing the conllitution. One generation has
no 1 ight to fubjed to the conltitution fu
ture generations.
After the recognition of these rights,
on which the government is founded, the
French nation is declared to form one in
elivifible r public.
'I he division into departments is retain
ed ; each department is divided into
communes or diltricts, &each commune in
to municipal fedions and primary aflem
blies.
Primary AJfemblics.
In the primary aflemblies, every man
aged 21 years has a right to vote, provi
ded that his name is inferibed on the civic
table, and that he shall have relided one
year in France.
The primary aflemblies shall be so dis
tributed in each department, that none
shall confilt of less than 400, or more than
900 members j in each of these a feled
committee is to be chosen by ballot, con
filling of as many members as there are
fifties of citizen* in the aflembly.
In this committee, he who has the ma
jority of votes (hall be president of the a(-
fembly ; the three next on the lift II all be
secretaries. The duty of the feled com
mittee is to keep the records, and to ar
range and fuomit the butinefs to the as
sembly.
All eledions are to be carried on in
those aflemblies. The intermediate, or
eledoral affem lies, have no place in this
code The elections are to be made bv
what is culled a double ferutiny ; each
gives in a signed lift of candidate * equal to
the number of places to be filled. These
bulletins, or lifts of presentation as they
are teimed, are sent to the administration
of each department.—They (eleit a triple
number of those candidates who have moil
votes, and from those sent ba k to the
primaly aflemblies ; a definitive eledion is
made, eac citizen giving in as before, «
lift of the candidates to whom he gives his
preference.
In the deliberations of these aflemblies,
the fame mode is to be followed as in the
eledions. Th; qtieftion is to be shaped so
as to be answered by a fnnple negative or
affirmative. On the day appointed for
the decision, each citizcn g'ves in a bulletin,
or flip of paper, inferibed with his name,
and t e word yes or no. These are to be
transmitted from the diftrid to the depart
ment, where the general result is to be
ascertained.
Adminijlrative Bodies.
There (hall be in each department, an
admini. r tive council, of )8 members,
with fubordina-e agencies. The former
are to controul the revenue, and to cor
respond with the executive government.
The inferior administrations arc not as yet
organized-
The adminillratorß are to be eleded in
the primary aflemblies, and the half re
newed every two years.
Executive Council.
I. The executive council of the republic
(hall be compo ed of seven general agents
or ministers, and a Secretary.
11. There shall be,
1. A minister of legislation.
2. A minister of war.
3. A minister for foreign affairs.
4. A minister of public contributions.
5. A minister of the marine.
6. A minister of agriculture, commerce
and manufa&u>-vs.
7. A minister of works, aids, public
eftabliftiments, and arts.
111. Each of the ministers (hall alter
nately preside in the executive council, and
the prelident (hall be changed every fifteen
days. To this council it belongs to exe
cute all the laws and all the decrees patTed
by the leg flative body.
'I he minifteis are to b? chosen in the
primary aflemblies, and in the manner be
fore prescribed, Eight fnppuans or fubfli
tutes, are to be chosen at the fame time.
! The members of the council to be cho
sen for two years. The half shall be re
newed every year; but they may be re
elected.
The executive council are accountable
to, and cannot be members of the legifia
tive body. They have no controul over
the national treasury, which is to be di
rected by three commiflioners appointed
lor that purpose, and eletted in the fame
manner. Two hundred members are to be
chosen in the legislative body, of whom a
jury of seven is to audit each account.
Legislative Body.
The legislative body is to consist of one
chamber, and to be renewed annually, by
elections, in the manner before mentioned.
The number of deputies to be sent from
each department is to be newly fixed every
ten year 6, according to the increase or de
crease of the population.
The members of the legislative body
(hall not at any time be prosecuted, im
peached, or tried for any thing which they
may have said or written in the exeicife
of their fndtious
No proposition shall pass into a l n w, un
less it be firft proposed in the aflembly,
then referred to a committee of thirte n,
and after the interval of a for.night, if the
time Ihould permit, re debated in the as
fembly.
Cenfo Jh'ip of People.
Under this head it is proposed, that any
citizen (hall have the right of convoking
the primary aflem! ly where he resides, ta
consider of the enactment of a new, or the
repeal of an exilting law. If they agree
to the proposition, they are to address the
people of other affcmb ies, and the wtfli of
the department thus colle£ted, is to be
tiranfmit'ed to and decided upon by the
m mberß ot the legifhtive body.
The citizens shall likewise have the
right to demand an inquiry into the con
duit of public functionaries, in cafe of abuse
of power and violation of the law.
A Convention.
A convention is to be summoned when
ever any change is made in the legislative
body. In the 2Cth yrar after the palling
of he conllitutional code, a convention
hall be called to revise and improve-
The convention cannot hold its fittings
within 50 leagues of the legislative body.
It shall be formed of two members from
each department.
Adminijlration of
In the civil as well as the criminal code,
the trial by Juiy is to be eftablifhcd. The
jurors a? w 11 as judges ar- to be eleCted.
The former to be taken one from every
hundre 1 citizens. The jury to confiil of
a director, a reporter, a national commis
sioner, and a number of jurymen to be fpt
cified.
The punishment of death is abolished
for all private offences.
There are to be two juries, whose func
tions correspond with tliofe of the grand
and petty juries in the EngliQi con'litution.
Judicial censors are to be appointed to
travel at fixed periods, and to iry all quef
tions of appeal.
A National Jury, confiding of three ju
rors from each department, is to try all
questions of High I'rcafon.
The arrefl and detention of an individual
are qualified by a number of minute regu
lations, highly favourable to personal li
berty.
The liberty of the press is declared to be
indefinite.
None can be judged either civilly or
criminally, 011 account of writings printed
or publilhed, except It (hall have been re
cognized and declared by a jury, id. whe
ther there is any criminality in the writing
denounced ; 2dly, whether theperfoi. pro
fecuted is guilty of it.
Public Force.
The forces of the republic, are placed
under the controul of the executive coun
cil. The public force is declared to be
eflentially obedient, as no armed body can
deliberate.
The commanders in chief are to Lave
annual and revocable commiliion from the
executivecouncil.
The commanders of the national guards
shall beeleded annually by the citizens in
each dillridt.
Public Conlributior.s.
The pub ic contributions ought never
to exceed the exigencies of the date.
There cannot b. tftabliOied any contribu
tion, which by its nature, or by its mode
of exaction, might be injurious to the free
'disposal of property. to the progrcfs of
inriuftry, and of commerce, to the • ircui
lation of capitals, or might produce the
;violatioh of the rights rccogni2id and de
clared by the constitution.
The amount fliall he fixed each year by
the legifiaiive body, and ratinot exceed
that term. They are to be pubiilhed an
nually.
Relation to foreign powers.
The French will only take lip arms for
'.he fake of their liberty They renounce
all accefiion of territory, Unless by the wish,
fre Iv exprflTei!, of its inhabitants.
The declaration of war fh.ill be made
by the legislative body; treaties of peace,
commcrce aud alliance (hall be made by
the executive council, and ratified bv the
legislative body, &c.
PrTented by the members forming the
committee of conllitntion.
BARRERE, BRISSOT, CONDOR
CET, D ANTON, GEIV6O x NE,
PEITON, SIEYEvS* THOMAS
PAINE, VERGNIAUD.
MEIIOROLOC ICsiL CB ER.VATIONS.
Apkil r793-
D. H]bur. jiler. Wn*. [Weather*
Tae/Jay, 16. 6( 29.5;,/ 46 VINW.jI. u ay.
"I 2q o- 6- xj. VV. Fair.
Wednejday, 1,. •' 30 J 4S X. V/. fair.
' 2 c 67 *'•
c i<i 5 2 >. "V »t;uHj,
2 2 9- "Pi' ;, W hair
frUay, 19. 6 29. 5i t. fa" .
2 75 => W. Jo.
Saturday, a_i. _ 29. 52 . Xain.
>20 4.9 do . jut'y,
Hunaay, 21. £9. 95 44 S
3 V- L <1 ; do.
Mtnday, 22. (jq ~ . j
3) jo. 01 46 | Z-IJ/iut/y.
NEIV B 0 0 K S.
ROBERT CAMPBELL,
No. 54, South Second btireet,
Has rpce'fvtd by thr Ship Geor|;e Barclay
A large a [fortmerit of BOOKS,
Among which are,
Viner's Abridgment ol Law and Equity, ia
vols.
N. B. Sulffcrijjticns are receive# for tbe above
work at 4 Dollars per Volume, 4 Volumes am Ibe
received every fx months till the work is corral, teJ,
tifi.l ken: tbe c&urje of eighteen months*
Croke'a Reports, 4 vols. f
Lord Raymond'* Reports, 3 vols.
VatteJ'a Law of Nations
Comyn's Divert, 6.v01s
Guthries Geography, a new edition in 4 to.
with elegant colcmed mis».
Boyei-js I'rc.ich ana Ungliih Di&ionaty in 4 &
8 vo.
Home's Hlftory of England, S vols—Same
book with Smollet's coutii uation, 13 vols, ele
gantl> gilt.
MoJhtiirTs EcclefiaAlcal H'ftorv,6 vols.
Gibbon's Romao . Hiitory ; 12 \ Is. gilt or
plain
Nf Executive Power, 1 vols.
H»ltv>"y of ancient Europe, 2 vols
Lavater <n Physiognomy abridged
Laige Family Biole wi h elegant cuts#
ChapcaiJ's Chemrfltry, 3 vols
Munro'9 do. 4 vols*
on Chile r*n, 2 vols.
Clarke on the dileates common in Innr voya*
ri es, a vols.
on Fevers,
Metherby's new Medical Dictionary.-
Gardner on the Gout.
P tt*s Chiiurgical Warks, 3 vols.
Nicholfon's Chemilhy.
Lee on Botar y.
White on the diseases of Lying-in Women,
&c. &c.
{£$* R. C. Will receive by the arrival of'he
firft vedels from Dublin and GJafgow, a large, ad
dition to his present extenfitre aflorrment of books
amongst which will be copies cf all the new pub
lications of merit.
April 13. »aw. t-.C
T Have claims to about two hundred and
1_ fifty thouland acres of LAND in tiie if ate of
kcn t u c k ( *y, in different parts of that country,
some of which 1 know to be equal to any ; all
of which I am inclined to dispose of, either bv
entire fele, or by admitting one, or two pait-iers,
to whom the agency on the whole will be com
mitted.
One fourth of the contract will be required ii»
hand, either in cash, merchandise, or tuch aflfet#
as may be converted to adtive use, the reftdns v
may be apportioned in convenient instalments.
The purchasers to give security, on the land,
or otherways.as suits them.
Knowing 'hat there is a prejudice again ft the
titles ot' land in that state, which is more general
than just, lam willing to stipulate in the con«
tract, that a discount, or dedu6>ion, Ihall De
made, where any land may be loft, by reason of a
defe&ive title.
Any perftm inclining to such a purchaie, is re
queued t? write to me by pofl, in answer to
whom-y more aarricui*»r information will be given.
n £N RT BANKS*
Richmond March 2c, 1703. 2a w rf,
PRINTED BY
CHILDS amd SWA IN E.
at TBUk arnce'no., 409, higb-stre*T>
Isi-A* f1 i r'TH-STR tI T ,
HJ/,