Numb. 38 of Vol. ll.]
Report of the Secretary ofthe Treasury, re
lative to the Loans negotiated under the
AUs of the <\th and \ 2th of AuguJl T .1790.
[Continued from our I ast —and concluded, j
r T~ I O the foregoing representation, it may
X fecm an objection that the purchases
to the end of 1791, appear to have been
carried to the account 01 the surplus at the
end of 1790.
The ult:mate form which it has been
judged convenient to give to the tranfaca
-011 in the accounts ofthe Treasury, tan
not change what was truly the course of
fadts. The proceeds of the above menti
oned surplus and of theforeignloansfoim
ed together the fund for purchases. In tilt
accounts of treasury, the tiling was fuf-
of various modi(k>-tio.>,> at pL-a
fure- The two parr, of the ..fiyM ju«£li.
have been united in one accoßHl, or divid
e*l into dirtinct accounts. Being separated.
monies ilfued for purchases might have
been legally carried to either of them.
It was judged mod advifea'.iie, in the
forms of the treasury, to place the pur
chases to the end of 1791, to the account oj
the domestic fund, because it was calcula
ted to give greater latitude and energy tc
the finking fund. Had not this cour.'e beer
pmTued, the bulinefs would have taken the
following shape—the foreign fund to th(
extent of the purchases, would have beer
exhaurted—the whole, or the greater pari
of the surplus of 1790, would have conti-
Aued wrapt up in the expenditure of 1791.
not liable to be liberated, till the receipt.
into the treasury should yield a correspond
ent surplus beyond the actual dijbtirje
ments—which could not have been the c fe
while the war with the Indians continue:
to call for extraordinary expenditures.
From, the form into which the thing ha*
been thrown, the foreign fund has been fel
frre to be applied to in. pnrctrafifs ;
and a necessity produced of anticipating
the qutftanding duties, by temporary loans
for the- current service.
I trust there can be no doubt, that the
course pursued was regular, and within the
discretion of the department. I hope al
so, that it will appear to the hotife to have
been the mall eligible The expediency oi
giving the earliest and greatest pofiible ex
tent and activity to whatever concerns the
finking fund, will, it is prefunied, unite all
opinions.
What has been said hitherto refpecling
the employment of the foreign fundsis ap
plicable only to that part of it which \va.
drawnfor prior to April 1792 ; the residue
ft.-mding in a different situation and requir
ing a separate examination.
From the statement which has been giv
en, it may be perceived that the fund ir
quertion has neither been idle nor useless.
A confirmation of this will be found in the
following detaila.
The whole sum successively received or
account of Amsterdam bills up to the 17th
of August 1791, was 361,391 dollars anc
34 cents. The amount of the ,ies in
verted in purchases prior to mat clay wa:
350,000 dollars, chiefly by anticipation oi
those receipts.
The whole sum successively received or
account of Amsterdam bills from Augufl
17, 1791, to March t, f92, was 408,722
dollars and 69 cents. The amount of the
monies inverted in purchases between those
periods, was 349,984 dollarsand 23 cents,
chiefly in the month of September, and by
anticipation of those receipts.
The whole sum successively received or
account of Ainfterdam bills, subsequent ti
the Ift of March, and prior to July, 1792.
was 235,412 dollars and 33 cents. The
amount of themonies inverted in purchas
es between those periods, was 242,688 dol
lars and 31 cents.
It was stated in my firft letter, thai
177,998 dollars and I- o cents, of the pro
ceeds of the foreign bills were left in de
posit with the bank of North America ;
and in a note upon fUtement B accompa
nying that letter, the occasion of it wa:
{hewn to be an advance without interelt
made by that bank, for the ufeof the de
partment of war ; which could not yet b<
covered in consequence of a doubt flill re
maining, whether the fund appropriate!
for fatisfvi: g that object, was adequate
it, the fufiiciency of that fund depend in,
in part on certain unexpended refniues oi
antecedent appropriations, which it wa
expected would not be finally necefj'ary so:
fatisfyingthe purposes of those appropria
tions.
It is to be remarked that the delay oi
tie employment of this part of the pro-
By P. tRENEAU: Put/lij'icd Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Tii rf.e Dollars per annum.
ceeds of the foreign fund, has been com
penft.ted bv afaving of ijitei olt o.i the luin
advanced by the bank. which otherwise
must have been procured, upon a loan with
an allowance of interest, probably at the
tin:eoi the advance, at a rate of 6 per
cent, fothat even in this p rticular, the
fund, though temporarily fufpendtd from
; ts destination, .as not been idle or iripro
duciive. I refervefor another place some
additional observations aid ftateuients,
which will be calculated to lliew, that op
portunities ot inveii ig the mon.es at a iv
tune on hand applicable Co purthalys ot
the debt, were nor fullered to pass unim
proved, and that 3s much in this refpeoi
was done as the state of the treafuvy ami
the liate of .he market would permit-
It ha# beei said, that actiftiiiQ ex.irain
atio i woiild beproper wsth regard to tile
□ills w/hieh have been dra%vn upon the so
reign fund, subsequent tp March, 1792. I
proceed now to this examination.
Tile expediency of what has been, in
this refpeit, done, seems to have been cal
led in question, under a fuggeflion that an
application oi the fund to purchases had
ceased to be advantageous
-1 he drawing of these bills has been ai
.'liferent periods influenced by various cor>-
iderations. A leading motive was alway;
-lie purchase ot the debt. And a correal
ww of the fubjeft will, I doubt not. satis-
J the Houle, that the measure was re
commended by an adequate profpett ol
advantage.
It is to be observed that all these draft;
were predicated uponthetwofour per cent
loana ; being as already stated real 4 i-e
aer cent loans.
There was good ground to presume, that
opportunities would be found of inveftinj;
he monies drawn for 1 1 purchases which
ivould yield at leal! 5 per cent, with a pof
Sbility of doing, hili better. The clittcr..
rrjeo of i .2 per cent, was alone an
of importancebut it would be coupled
with the further benefitot reducing a prm
ipal sum materially exceeding the sum in
vert-id When the thi ee per centsa. ff pur
-haud at iSsin the pou d, there isnoton
y a redemption of an an itiity cf 5 per
■ eut. but a 11 ifcing of a capital of aos. for
12. And thong 1 this might no, be mate
rial, if the ni-ri.et rate ot" interest (hould
lever fall below ; b ..a: fe in tnat cafe the
.hree per centJ jl.Utiys be pure hated
at t ;e I' me rate , yet if it mould at any
.iiTie happen, that inteieft tell below five,
it wo;.hi jc a pain to the ent to
have purchased at 5, i* 1 is.ct proportio -
co the chit rente between 5 ar>d tiie then
market rati. Add to t:ii». th t the price
3 per cente have ge.ieialiy 1 value i
the market more than proportioned to the
income they produce, v hi h arises from
the capacity oi the capital to >ppreci;ite
even to par. These observations are ;*lfe
for the most part applicable to the defer
red, with this circun.llance in add.aon,
tiiat w hen interest begins to be pavbi< < n
th ,t species of stock. the monev "invj -r
and which in the mean time itm li ,, jV i
produced five, would then b- 11 to pro
duce to the government 6 per cent, with
the advantage of having ant,tip ted ir
redemption of a species of ih:. lof ht
only gradually recteeirvb' t. Ok.bini-v
these conliderations, it app<; rsro he cJeai
!y and even eminently for t' i e eft lot
the government to pure hale s\ thi , the
limit suggested. with a tu d ulmh dots
not cost more than 4 1-2 per te t
That this was the vieu of the fubjVit
which governed, is dtdutib'e not o;:!v
from the circumstances of the fa£l, biii
from my letter of the 2d of /pril, 179;
so Mr. Short, announcing my intention to
draw, in which I ajlign as the ground of
■ hat intention, " rhut I cojifidered it fdr
the interest of the United States to profei
:ute purchases of the publk debt with mo
nies borrowed o 1 the terms or the la/ft
loan," meanirg the loan of the ift of a
nuary 1792, at 4 per cent.
If the event be taken as a criterion, tfie
anticipation will be more than j'uftificd, the
prcfeut offering-an opportur.i tv
ior purchases peculiarly advantageous.
But without in'iftinor on a state of things
occaiiuntd by extraordinary circumstances.
it was morally certain, that the common
course of events would render the opera
tion a benefitial one. And it would not
a-gue peculiar forelighr. if a calculation
wa- even made on the effect. which thefi-
and probable progress of affairs in
"rope might produce upon our market.
A pretty general war rhere. by extending
the demand for money would naturally di
vert from our stocks a portion of what
SATURDAY, March 9, 1793,
might otherwise be employed upon them
fi:id atfefl iojurioufly their prices. It is al
io .1 la. nilidv fail, that during the winter
in this country, there is always a fcarcjt)
of money in the towns ; a circumliar.te
calculated to damp the prices of stock.
A I'o.ilideration, which collaterally in
fluenced the drawing of the latter' bills
ivas the (ituation ol tlie French coiony ol
St. Domingo.
This not only produced an early appli
cation for a conliderable advance, whicl:
was promised ; but it was to he forefeen.
that (till t'u. ther aids would bi- indifpeufa
ble.
Indeed lundry letters from Mr. Short,
the firll dated at Paris, the aSth Oecembei
179r, announced the daily probability o]
an Ji'ra igeinent, requiring a,, advance here
■it 800,000 dollars for the life of that co
lony. A fuiii of 4,c00,0c0 of livres ha;
m tad! b.'en fncceflively ltipulated for thai
'ibjetl, the greatelt part of which has beer
actually fm nilhed.
It is known, that these supplies cov.lc
:>ro t _>cd from no other source than the so-
Sign lund.
The payment to the foreign officers o:
n.'a. 200,000 dollars, by which an interef
Hi.6 per cent, would be releiifed, wa:
mother objedl for which provision was tc
>e made out of the fame fund.
These several purposes conspired wit!
the object of purchaling the debt to induce
he latitude ol drawing, which took place,
But there was dill a further inducemeni
which came in aid of the others. The time
!'or reimbursing the firil Miftalment of the
wo millions of dollars due to the bank
v s approaching, when by pufitive Itipu
ation, the government would have to paj
.wo hundred thousand dollars, for whicl
there was no domestic fund, that could be
jjared from the current exigencies. ]
iiwn,;htitincumbentupon this depa. (nier
:o have an eye to placing within the read
at the legillature the means ol fulfilling
this engagement ; the objeftof which bort
a itridt analogy to that for which the twe
millions authorized by the attmakingpro-
I'ifion for the reduction of the public^debl
ivere to be borrowed.
1 did not even fciuple to take into the
;ali. ulation, that if from the extent of the
Iraughts upon the foreign fund, there
hould happen to be found 011 hand a larg
er sum than was necefi'ary for, or cculd bt
ulvantageoully employed towards, t!it
"everal purposes which were the immedi
ate and duedl objects of the operation, the
urplus wouiclf. cilitate to the governmeni
measure manifestly and uuequivocallj
t>eneficial—an additional payment to the
3;nk. oh account of a debt, upon which ai
imual interell of 6 per cent, was paya-
D.e; a measure by which a certain favine
)f one per cent, o t;ie extent of the pay
ment that might be made would be accom-
Dlidied.
1 he poflibility of this application of the
nnd afforded a perfect aflurance, that the
jnbiic interest could in no event fail to be
i omoted.
I felt myfelf the more at liberty to do it.
became it did not interfere with a com
pete fulfilment of the public engagement.
11 1 ..d to the foreign deot. It could
1 do ■ co 'fiftently with a full reimburfe
> c- t of all arrears and inllalments which
i :d acci lied 011 aciount of that debt.
f he detail which has been given com
>rehends a full c>ipofition of the views and
ret ives that have regulated the conduct of
is department; in relation to-thefe part
f the proceeds ofjhe foreign loans which
lave been transferred to tltfc- United States,
•xcept as to the lart sum of one million two
"undred and thirty seven thousand five
bundled florins, diretfed to be drawn so.
an the 30th of November lad ; in regard
to which, circuniftances of a special na
ture co-operated, as is explained in a
note upon the copy of my letter of the
26th of that month, to Mr. Short, form
ing a p irt ot the communication herewith
made by order of the Prelident of the
United St-jtes.
The House will perceive, that the vari
ety of matter comprized in this letter has
not been coUefted and digelted into its pre
terit form, without much "labour and an
unavoidable expence of time. I trull they
will be f'eilfible, that no delay has been un
necefl'artly incurred. Jt is certain that I
have made every exertion in my power,
at the hazard of my health, to comply with
the requisitions of the House as eariya?
poflible. And it has even been doae with
more expedition than was defircub'e to se
cure the perfe£t accuracy of the commu
nicati 01.
[Total No. 142.]
i et I hat'e still to regret that some part
of the fubjeft mu't remain to be presented
in a subsequent letter. To leflen howe
ver the in convenience of this further de
lay, I (hall traafmit with the present letter,
the statements required by the firft and fe
coud ot the resolutions of the 23d of Ja
nuary, which will be found in the fcne
dules herewith marked No. I to V ; those
required by the lalt of the resolutions hav
ing been already forwarded.
J here remain, however, fomc particu
lars to complete the information contem
plated by those resolutions, that mult be
reserved for another communication. This
1 may venture to allure the House will not
be deferred beyond the present, or at lealt
the firft day of theenfning week.
With perfect respect,
I have the honor to be
S I R,
Your mod obedient
And moit humble servant.
ALEXANDER HAMILTON.
Secretary of, the Trea/uty.
The Honorable the Speaker of the
Houje of Reprefentati-ves.
[From the General Adv;rtifer.~\
Minutes of the Enquiry into the official
conduit of the Secretary of theTreafu
ry on several of the Resolutions moved
by Mr. Giles.—Thursday, Feb. 2S.—
1 he House in committee of the whole,
Mr. Muhlenberg in the chair.
Mr. Giles, the original mover of the.
resolutions, rose. He was feniible, hefaid,
that he itood in a peculiarly delic ite situ
ation, in which nothing short of the public
good could have induced him to place him
ielf. It a public and highly refponiible
officer h-d violated the laws. it was necef-_
Pary that he ftiould be called to an account
for it : and to determine whether in the
instances before the ho 11 ft he had been
juilty of that violation, it is necefl'ary to
compare the teltimony with the facts al
ledgeclin the .resolutions before the com
nittee. He firll adverted to the law au
ihoriling the Prelident of the United States
:o borrow 12 millions of dollars for the
jurpofe of paying the foreign debt. On
this he remarked, that the authority of'
borrowing was expressly given to the I're
ident, no doubt with an eye to the peifon
il virtues of the character who fi.ls that
office ; the loan is also directed tobemade,
olely for the purpose of paying the public
Here he remarked, that in every
appropriation law, the appropriation is al
ways emphatically mentioned, which is art
;vidence that the legillature intend to re
uain the sole judges of the applications of
rtoney. He read a letter from the re
arv of the Treasury, who was employed
>y the Prelident to negociate this loan, to
Wr. Short, the Secretary's foreign agent
or this purpose, dated the 9th of May 179 1,
n which the Secretary informs Mr. Short,
:hat one million and a half of the money
tie had obtained on loan was destined for
Prance; of which sum he was authorised
:o apply immediately one million, but to
'eferve Bco,ooo florins to answer subse
quent directions, he fhquld receive from
the Treasury. He cited this paflage to
hew that the million and a half which hud
been obtained on loan, was destined Icr
France.
To remove any doubt that might remain
upon this head, he referred to a preceding
letter from the Secretary to Mr. Short,
dated the 13th of April, in which it is al
io expressly said, that of the two millions
borrowed, one miitipn and a half is intend
ed for France, the remaining hall' million
to wait for further direction*. Having
established tiiis point, fie adverted to the
refohition before the committee, which
fays, that he applied a portion of the prin
cipal borrowed to the payment of the in
terest frilling due upon thatprinsipal, with
out being authorized so to do by any law.
To fliew this he referred to a report of the
3d or January, containing fisndry frate-,
ments refpeftingForeign loans. That pare
of the report to which he alluded in proof"
of the fact, stated in general tei 111s, a Aim
paid on account ot foreign loans, and thi»
'ufn was taken from the principal borrow
ed, ancl amounted to i-,fe33,j£9 li<;iins.
this statement was accurate, the'fact l e
wiflied to eftablifli was, he Paid, prpved.
He wanted more light, however, he con
/efled, than he could cnlle£t from theSeci e
| farj's ofitial contrcimicctfons. He C,sulci
j rot go into the examination -of what cir
-1 08-l'snses might .have induced the Cccr^..tury to deviate from the positive inj'ure
tio .5 of the law, or to make any remarks
upon nis conduit until he had heard what
gentlemen would lay to controvert the
lacr .ie wilhed to eftabtittt.
Another fact of coni'equence he wilhed
to prove, viz. that part of the money ob
tained on loan in Lurope had been drawn
over tho' not wanted here lor any pubiK
purpose j this appeared, he said, from other
papers. He turned to the inftruttionsfrom
the Prefideiit to the Secretary ot the Trea
sury, authorizing inm to borrow i4,ooo,ccc
us dolls. in wnii.li the secretary is caution
ed to keep in view the two several ast:
authorizing the loans, and the diltinci
condi ions theycontemplate. By the in-
It'riKtiOiis of the Prelident the Secretary is
authorized to apply the monies. In the
execution of the trull coniided to him, tin.
Prelident generally directs him to employ
Mr. Short to negociate the loans, to bor
row in the manner prescribed by the acts,
and to difeharge immediately the arrears ol
intere.t due t > the French, to which pu -
pole and to the complete payment of thai
debt the 12 million loan was altogether ap
propriated. If this money, then, wa.
Ihewn to have been drawn here, it was
neither warranted by law nor by the»Preii
dent's instructions. The Secretary did be
gin to draw as early as 1790, and had con
tinued to draw from time to time, til)
j 793, without giving notice of this to the
Legislature. Having Ihewn that the Se
cretary had drawn without authority tu
draw, he next proceeded to coclider the
purpose of those drafts.
The money thus drawn for was not, he
Hated, applied to the purchase ot the pub
lic debt, no monfcy obtained from foreigr
loans was thus applied until this year, the
domestic refotirccs appropriated to this ob
ject were exh lulled. These were
the facts involved in the firft resolution,
whuff he wilhed to eftablilh ; beiore he
proceeded further in the difcufiion, he
wlh .1 to hear what gentlemen had to fay
to controvert them. He wilhed to fee jus
tice done in the bulineC. before the house
he v. -{hed juftiec, also, to be tempered w tl
modera.ion and mercy, and if gentlemei
could Ihew a neceliity for the deviation:
from positive law which he had endeavour
ed to printout, it would exonerate the Se
tretary from a very great (hare of blame."
Mr. Barnwell called for the reading 01
certain parts of the two acts authorilinj
the loans. One, of the 4th of August, au
thorizes a loan of 12.000,000 to be obtain
ed without limitation as to the interest, foi
the pu-pole of paying the foreign debt, the
other is of the 12th of Aug t«r 2,000.000 ;
the interelt to be not more than 5 per cent,
and for the purpose of reducing the do
mestic debt.
Mr. Sedgwick, to disprove that the
drafts alluded to had been made without
the knowledge of the hgifliture, called 101
the reading of the Prelident's (peeihtc
both houses oil the Bth of December 1:90.
and a fubequent report of the Secretary ol
the Treasury to the fame point. By thii
it appeared that the power of borrowing
liavi ig been exerciied under the joint au
' thorny ot the two acts, the Secretary
(lates a difficulty that trad occurred to him
on the subject of the drafts alluded to. —
The money hiving been obtained 011 an in
terest of five percent- exclulive ot dou
ceurs, he wilhed the legislature to deter
mine whethei it might Unctly be conlider
ed as borrowed under the second act, \vhich
limited the interest at 5 per cent This
was lufficient, he conceived, to Ihew, that
the legillature were not ignorant of those
drafts, and ail ast was palled solving the
Secretary's doubt, and fa.iftioning his con
ftructiou of the law.
Mr. Giles remarked, fhat he had drawn
before that fanftion as obtained.
Mr. Fitzlimons observed 011 the firft
charge in the resolution, that as the inter
est of the money borrowed in t urope is
pay ible where borrowed, it was oecono
lmcal in the Secretary to pay that interest
with monies there, which were to be
drawn here, and replace the sum by ta
king the amount from the funds here def
tin.d for that payment. A financial ope
ration of this nature is limple, and saves
the trouble of drawing with one hand and
remitting with the other- He conceived
there was 110 just foundation for the lirrt
charge'.
Mr. Lawrence said that when the reso
lutions calling for information from the
treasury department were firft brought
forward, the public mind was imprelfed
with an idea, that there were monies un
accounted for ; this charge is now dropt.
and it is honorable to the officer concerned
that after much probing nothing is found
to support it. The enquiry now is, whe
ther a debt was paid out of this or that
fund. He did not admit the fact, that it
was paid out of any other monies, than
what law ftriftly warranted- He went
into a hiltory of the bulinefs from its ori
gin. He llated the nature and purposes
of the loans. There was nothing to pi e
vent the Prcfident, lie said, to consolidate
the two loans, provided such an arrange
ment did not interfere with the purpol'es
intended by them. The Prelident employ
fid the Secretarp to obtain the loans under
the joint authority of both acts, as it was
found that the object could bell be carried
into eifeft by such a;« arrangement. The
money thus borrowed, became ftibjeft to
the appropriations of both acts, and not c
-11 ulively lor the payment of the foreign
debt- ' Then as part of that money was
lubjeft to be drawn here lor the redemp
tion of the donieltic debt,. and the intes ell
of the loan was to be paid with doineflic
funds, it was perfectly re. fonable to avoid
I urLber drafts and remittances, to pay the
debt there with money there, and replace
it litre with money already here. The
fa ft slated in the firft part ol the resolution
is by this plain Hate of the cafe substantial
ly refuted, and appears altogether unfoun
ded ; but if the fact is proved, what is im
plied ? No injury to the interests of the
community; the intention of the legisla
ture has been in every point fulfilled. Ii
the Secretary had acted differently, lie
would have been guilty ol an absurdity,
and to blame for iauilicing the public in-
U-rtft, and neglecting the lpirit ot the law
tor a ftrid ?nd unprofitable observance ol
its dead letter.
Mr. Sedgwick by adverting to the fpeecl
of the Prelident and report ot the Secre
tary, had (hewn, that the ltgillature hati
been made acquainted with the drafts, anc
(auctioned future ones on the fame princi
ples. The latter part of the firft rcfolutioi
.riminates the Secretary for making then
without inltrucHons from the Prelident.
Kven if this was the cafe, he did not Know
whether this was really reprehenlible. Ht
defended it on this ground, that the Se
.retary i:; the officer appointed by law tc
uperinte d the finances and apply all mo
lies agreeably to appropriations. He took
i view of the bulinefs as slated by Mr.
Lawrence, and concluded by aiking, whe
:her if the Secretary w as found on a criti
cal examination to have deviated in a tri
fle from the letter of the law, Inch a devi
ation w. s fufficient to w arrant the alarm's
being founded from St. Lroix to St. Ma
ry's, and whether the precious time of the
tionfe, at the close of the fefiion, with a
variety of bufine s on their hands, u onld
be taken lip in so unprofitable and frivolou;
an inveftig ition.'
Mr. Giles said the transaction alluded tc
by the gentlemen to conti overt the fail
laid down in the firft part of the resolution
before the committee, was not so immate
rial as they had endeavourtd to shew it.
It wiis not merely a financial operation tc
avoid the necellity of drawing and remit
ting. The truth was, that theSecietu-y
had drawn over near 3,000,000 of dollars.
The President's authority was limited to
2,000,000.'
Mr. Lawrence was of opinion, that if
the Prelident, or his agent, had drawn the
whole amount of the money obtained un
der both loans, he could not be said to
have gone beyond his authority. He was
authorized to borrow 12,cc0.000 to pay
the arrears on the foreign debt, and to
modify the whole. In the execution of
this trult he might have found it advifea
b!e to draw to the country the whole of
that sum. It had been found advifeuble to
draw for part, and to pay the French by
(hipping produc eto St. Domingo. If the
money expended for supplies to St. Do
mingo is deducted, the balance will be
found less than 2.000,000.
The committee reported progress, and
obtained leave to fit to morrow.
(To be continued-)
For the National Gazette.
Number V.
IN ftjpport of the doctrine, that public
* credit and funding fyffeins are impolitic
and rui nous, it may be also proper to quof
the opinion of Mr. Hume ; this celebrated
hiflorian, when treating on public credit,
observes, that it appears to have been the
common practice of antiquity, to make
provision in times of peace for the necessi
ties of war, and to hoard up treasures be
forehand, as the inflruments Vither of
coiqueft or defence; without trusting to
extraordinary impolitions, much less to
borrowing i times of difbrder and confu
lion. The wiser Emperors of Rome, Au
s;ufhis, Tiberius, Vespasian, Severus, &c.
always discovered the prudent forefight of
laving great funis against any public exi
gency.
On the contrary, our modern expedient,
which has become very general, is to
mortgage the public revenues, and to trult
that poflerity will pay off the incumbran
ces contracted by their ancestors : and
they having before their eyes so good an
example of their -wije fathers, have the
lame prudent reliance on their poflerity i
who at last, from neceflity more than
choice, are obliged to place the fame confi
dence in a new posterity. But not to
wafle time in declaiming against a pra&ice
which appears ruinous beyond all contro
rjerJ'y, it seems pretty apparent that the an
cient maxims are, in this refpe£t, more
prudent than the modern ; even though
the latter had been confined within some
reasonable bounds, and had ever in any
inflance, been attended wrth filch frugali
ty in time of peace, as to discharge the
debts incurred by an expensive war.
If the abuses of treasures be dangerous
either by engaging the flute in rafli enter
prizes, or making it negleit military dijeti
plins in confidence of its riches; tife a
buses of mortgaging are more cerjuin at «
inevitable; poverty, impotence, and fub
jetiior to foreign powers.
It is vei y tempting to a minister so em
ploy Cu'-li an expedient, as enables him
10 make a great figure during his admini
stration, without ov erburthemng the peo
ple with taxes, or exciting any immediate
clamours againfl himfelf. The practice.
therefore, of contrasting debt wil: almoil
infallibly be abused, in every government.
It would scarcely be more, imprudent tf
give a prodigal Ton a credit in every ban
ker's (hop in London, than to empower s
llatefman to draw bills in this manner up
on pojlerity.
W hat then (hall we fay to the new para
dox that public incumbrances are ot them
selves advantageous, independent ot tht
necessity of contra&ing them;, and that anj
(late, even though it were not prelled by i
foreign enemy, could no: pollibly liavt
embraced a wiler expedient tor promo
ting commerce and riches, than to creat<
funds, and and taxes without limi
tation ? Reafoiiings, such as these, mighi
naturally have paifed tor trials ot wit a
mong rhetoricians, had we not seen fuel
abjurd maxims patronized by great mini-
Hers, and by a whole party among us.
Let us examine the consequences o:
public debts, both in our domellic manage
ment, by their influence on commerce anc
mdultry ; and in our foreign tranfa£tions
by their ettect on wars and negotiations.
In oppolition to the favorable circum-
Vances, perhaps of no very great impor
:ance, eigh the many disadvantages wnicl
attend our public debts, in the whole in
terior oeconomy of the ltate . you wil
ind no comparison between the ill and tht
jood which refultsfrom them.
First. It is certain that national debt
:aufe a mighty confluence of people anc
iches to the capital, by the great funis le
vied in the provinces to pay the interest o:
these debts.
Secondly. Public flocks, being a Kind o;
3 aper-credit, have all the difadvantagei
attending that species of money. The;
banilh gold and lilver irom the mod conli-
Jer ble commerce of the ltace, reduce
them to common circulation, and by thai
means render all provilioiis a d iaboui
dearer than otherwise they would be.—
Thirdly, ihe taxes which are levied tc
p y tile interests of the debts, are apt enhei
[o heighten the price of labour, or to l»t
311 opprellion 011 the poorer fort.
Fourthly. As foreigners pofl'efs a greai
(hare of our national funds, they rendei
:he public in a man ier tributary to them
and mny in time occalion the transport o;
aur people and our indullry.
Fifthly. The greatelt part of public
flock being always in the hands of idle peo
ple, who live 011 their revenue, our fund:
jWe great encouragement to an useless anc
naftive life.
But though the injury that arises tc
-.ommerct -and ii.diijiry from our publh
c untU will appear, upon ballancing tht
whole, not inconsiderable, it is trivial ii
:omparifon of the prejudice that result:
:o the (late co ifidered as a body politic,
which mull support itfelf in the society ol
lations, and have various tranfa£tions with
other Hates in wars and negociations. Tht
HI there is pure and unmixed, without anj
favourable circuinltance to atone for it
and it is an ill, too, of a nature the higheil
and molt important. Mr. Hume aftei
making further remarks on the deflruc
:ive consequences of public credit, observe:
:hat the nation inuft dellroy the public
:redit of Great-Britain, or public credii
will destroy the nation. It is impoflible
:hey can both subsist, after the manner the)
lave been hitherto managed in that, a:
well as in some other countries.*
France under the old government, pur
lued the ruinous system of mortgaging it>
-evenues- This fyllem however, almoil
unaided by any other cause, has overturn
ed that government, by means of the moll
extraordinary revolution upon record. II
Louis the XlVthamidft the splendour ol
lis reign and career of his conquests coulii
pollibly have forefeen. that the second so
vereign in descent from him would be let
:aptive by his subjects on account of tht
iebts he was then contracting he woulc;
either have rejected \\ ith horror the fyften:
lie adopted, or have manifelled the moil
entire want of those feelings which oughi
to dwell in the bread of a great and am
bitious n onarch. But after this memora
ble example to other countries, it remains
a Aibject of infinite curiolity to fee how
tar the 'infatuated and blind spirit of fund
ing will now bepurfued.' Every hour af
ter the great event in France will mak>- ii
more and more critical, and will inevitably
involve in its trajn new revolutions, per
haps of a complexion more dangerous tc
eltablifhed families, than any thing we have
fel n in France.
Legislators ought to contemplate these
efl'etts of that PUBLIC CRKIJIT upon
which the banking, money-changing, anc!
Itock-broking writers, with Neckar at
their head, have delivered such panegy
rics ! A system that never entered a coun
try, but to dellroy or to annihilate poile
rity : it has spread ruin or debility in Spain,
Holland, Genoa, Venice, and France : i;
threatens speedily the extiaftio:] of the
* Humes' Effayt.
power niiU fLie overthrow of the court itu
tion of Krjland : it ha 3 weakened ant' al
mofl deftet>ye<l Europe, except one coun
try saved by the splendid talents of a lingle
sovereign. f
AN AMERICAN FARMER.
March 6th, 1793-
•(• Young's travels in Franc:.
To the EDITOR of the NATIONAL
GAZETTE.
SIR,
TT is remarked by aprofound writer,that
1. " all societies throughout the varied
forms of democracy, ariitocracy., and mon
archy, verge more or less rapidly to des
potism, us ail rivers, whether their pailage
be thro' vallies, hills, or mountains, bend y
their course invariably tothefea.'' This
remark ought to be a serious memento to
the citizens of the United States ; and as
decay and death seem to be the lot of
every free government, temperance in the
body politic ihould demand the fame care
and attention, that the body natural re
quires, that the progress to the grave of
iiefpotifm may be impeded. As the period
i)f exigence very often depends upon ori
ginal stamina, and "we are yet in the infancy
of a government, too much attention can
lot be bestowed to give that vigour of po
litical fibre which will alone insure us a
free, a nervous, and a comfortable age.—
Children who are taught to admire frip
pery, and have their minds furniftied v ith
the vanities of this life, have a cast given to
their actions which oftinies haunts them to
their end ; ill like manner, when follies are
engrafted upon a government that has just
emerged into being, they not only enervate
it in embryo, and make it the perpetual
jbjeft of a nursery, and a phyiician, but
ihey hasten that dissolution which every
freeman ought to deplore— and
forms have an influence upon the human
mind, for sb much are we the creatures of
imitation and of habit, that we afient to
things because others have done so; and
continue improper practices because it re
quires an effort to change them. " Even
uames," faysPaley, " are not indifferent."
When the multitude are to be dealt with,
here is a charm in founds—lt was upon
this principle that several itatefmrnof those
times advised Cromwell to ailume the title
us King, together with the ancient style
and jnlignia of royalty. The juinds of
many, they contended, would be brought
to acquiesce in the authority of a king,
who fufpeftecl the office, and were offended
with the administration of a protestor..
Novelty reminded them of usurpation—
The adversaries of this deiign opposed the
ineafure, from the fame perfusion of the.
ejjicacy of names and forms, jealous leji tke
veneration paid to theje, jnould add an in
fluence -which might er/Jnare the liberty of
the Commonwealth." The government of
the United States may be fa d to be iq its
infancy; it has just attained its fourth year,
and on it.. present treatment depends its
future charafler—lf we are a republic, re
public ill manners, republican laws, and a
republican aclminiftration Ihould obtain—
If we are not, oilier requisites would best
accord with our government. If names,
aciordingto Puley, are not indifferent, and
forms influence the mind, we cannot pro-
I'cribe every name and form too severely,
which have had their origin in monarchy,
an do not apply to the true character of a
republic. To what source can we trace
levees, drawing rooms, Jeparation from the
people, robes of office, ire'. Certainly not to
a republican one, for these are the veryop<
pofites of equality—W hat will be the re
fijlt when the mind becomes accuitomed to
the regalia of a cpurt ? Is not the tranli
tion to monarchy more easy after the mind
is habituated to its names and forms ? Let
it not be said that t efe things are indiffer
ent ; for nothing is indifferent which can
sap the foundation upon which our equality
relts. An inattention to this, is an intem
perance which will hasten the period of
decay, and verify the remark with which
I began this essay. Republican laws are an
essential prop to republican existence ; but
is a law which fixes a perpetual debt upon
us, republican ? " Debt is the ready way
to poverty : a wife people, no more than a
wife man, will ever place their security in
a load of debts. He that is in debt, is loft,
loft to the society of which he is a member,
because they can receive no benefit or af
(iftance from him ; and loft to himfelf, be»
cause he will be no longer trusted, and is
expufed by his neceflitous circumstances to
the caprice, contempt and power of bis en
mies, and too often to the ingratitude and
flight of those, who have lived upon him—
It is much to be feared that a nation op
pre fj'ed with debt, -Mill but too much rejem'
ble the prodigal thild, who having
dered away his patrimony in luxury and
profujenejs, gives himfelf up to corruption
and venality. For, as national debts and
taxes enable one Jet of men to corrupt, Jo
they lay a multitude of others under the
temptation of bti'g corrupted—And it is
well known, that poverty and bad exam
ples will drive men to fell their dearelt
birthright" The opinion that "a public
debt is a public blefling," is of very modern
origin, and it a sophism pregnant with evil---That a public debt often becomes a pri
vate blelling ami a public curse, the history
of many miiiiflerial chara&ers will fuffi
ciently authenticate ; that it has dispensed
blessings to individuals in America cikmot
for a moment be doubted ; but that the
United States have been benefited by their
debt and the prefeivt fifcal arahgements, ii
a problem not likely to be solved in favour
of its author, uniefs by fpeculatort and
flock-jobbers. What have been the eitect
of union and an efficient government have
been ascribed to the administrators, altho'
the fame benefits would have flowed trom
it had the head of the treasury never ex
ited—Do the laws of the union, the re
fpeifability of the American charatter, the
commerce, manufactures, and agriculture
of our country, the individual honelly as
well as the public Integrity of every de
partment of our government depend upon
the administrator of the finances? It is
fiid that our credit has been established by
theadminiftration ; but will any one offer
such lfult to the United States as to fnp
pofe that their credit rested upon the nar
row flioulders of one man? Suppose the
funding system to have been diiterently
and that the original holders
Los the piper of the United States had been
indem-vfied, after the completion of the
organization, would not our credit have
been the fame ? Our credit depends upon
our national character, and not upon the
Imagined importance of any individual in
the union.—Suppose the old confederation
to have continued, what would have been
the credit of the United States, even had
the finances been in the administration of
its present officer? This is the quefticn,
for by contemplating it properly, we (hall
be able to decide, whether the credit of
the United States depended upon the new
ly acquired vigour ol government - , or upon
an cfluer acting under it. It is the falliion of
the day to ascribe every benefit which has
resulted from the energetic union of the
states, to the fthemes of the Secretary of
the Treasury ; as if, not only all the abil
ities, but all the virtues of the union had
their focus in him. Public credit is a de
lusive thing, it means a facility of borrow
ing. and liKe private credit lays the foun
dation of distress and bankruptcy. The
iituation of our country, removed at a dif
tr nee from every foe which can endanger
her independence, makei the fame expen
ces and provilions nnnecefTary, which Eu
ropean governments require—We have no
increase of military establishment to con
template, no naval armaments to antici
pate, no application of our monies for
court intrigue to expect ; a facility of bor
rowing therefore is not *oour go
vernment ; for as the expeucet of trcr ef
tablifhmenc can be calculated with tolera
ble cxattnefi, the sources of revenue can
be fixed and can be made commensurate to
the objefl. Public credit produces public
debt, public debt increased taxation, and
increased taxation poverty and oppression ;
the sooner therefore we relieve ourselves
from our debt by an honert discharge of it,
the sooner shall we efcapefrom the clutches
of that hydra, which has vomited forth
misery upon every country which unfortu
nately foftered it. The improper influ
ence which public debt gives to the head of
the treasury is dangerous to liberty we
have already seen the coloffial power of
this department ; we have seen it resorted
to on occasions, in which even the venal
parliament of Great-Britain maintains its
jealousy, the originating of money hills ;
■what are we to expert when age fliall have
ripened it, and fholl have added to it the
vigour of manhood ? It is a pivot now on
which a coiifiderable portion of our go
vernment turns, and is likely, if not check
ed. to become a centre towards which
even the United States will gravitate.
March j, 1793. GRACCHUS.
To the EDITOR of the NATIONAL
GAZETTE.
TjF.ING at market lafl feventhday, I cal
led at thy office for my paper as (jfual.
On my return home, I visited my neighbour
Justice TRUEMiN ; and among other en
tertainment and inftruftion, we perused
the angry epistle of friend Philalethes * di
rected to me ; at which 1 confefs myfelf
diverted, and the Justice laughed exceed
ingly.
" Does PhilaJethes, (said he) pretend to
impose on the citizens of America his abuse
of a man he does not perhaps even know,
as an answer to thy queries directed to an
author who has undertaken to instruCt go-
W»*ernment, and to inform his fellow-citi
zens ? I have long known this Philalethes,
vhof." fuggefUons will not diilurb even
those whom they mod concern. Bj*f I
really wifli to fee a man of information and
good JcnJe attempt to jullify the present
Indian war, if it can be done : for as I
have already mentioned in a former ad
dress, a free andfull examination is always
favourable to truth, but fatal to error.—
He who dares to embrace truth, and par
ticularly in this instance, mull expert to
have dirt thrown at him by Philalethes, and
by all thole whose bulinefs and interest it
is to promote and continue the war."
* See National Gazette, No. 140.
Thus, friend F fener.u, I have thought
proper to remark to tliee, Jultice True
mail's feutiments, and to express my hop?,
that one better INSTRUCTED than Phi
laletiies, will f.itisfy my inquiries—l re
main tny frund,
JONATHAN JUSTICE.
3d Month, 4th, 1793
CONSTITUTION of the FRENCH BE
NEVOLENT SOCIETY, eftablilhed
in Philadelphia, in the year 1793.
n~"ITLE and objeCi of the society.—Article
1. This society shall be called the
French Benevolent Society, eftablilhed in
Philadelphia, in the year 1793. ts on 'y
object is to aflifl unfortunate Frenefamen
with advice and pecuniary afliftance.
Qualifications for a tmiffion and ajjif
tance.—Article 2. Every perl'on deliroc.s
to contribute to the object of the society,
may beeome a member, and every indivi
dual. or descendant of an individual, born
within a French territory, may call for its
afli fiance.
Contributions of the Members. —Article
3. Every citizen that (hall offer himfelf to
become a member of the society, shall sub
scribe the present constitution, and lhall
pay immediately to the treasurer, foe en
trance money, a benevolent contribution,
which (hall not belefs than Two D.ollars i
which contribution shall be exprefl'ed in
words at length upon the treaflirer's book
in the hand writing of the donor. At eve
ry quarterly meeting of the society, each
member lhall renew his benevolent contri
bution, paying not left than half a dollar.
Contributions from Jlrangers.—Article 4.
The society will thankfully receive al
charitable gifts, which (hall be made foi
the furtherance of its object, from othei
persons than its members.
Meetings of the society.— Article 5. Th<
society convene in Philadelphia ever)
second Saturday in March, June, Septem
ber, and December. BeGdes these quar
terly meetings, there (Iml 1 be an anniversa
ry meeting on the (ixth of February, ever)
year, in commemoration of the alliance be
tween France and the United States 01
America. In fnch cases as will require an
extraordinary meeting, the prehdent, or ir
his absence. the vice-president, may direel
its convocation with the consent of a quo
rum of the acting committee.
Fines in cafe of abjence.—Article 6.
Every member who lhall not attend at th.t
meetings (hall incur a fine, for the benefit
of the society, of half a dollar at the anni
versary meetings ; of one quarter of a dol
lar at the quarterly meetings, and ot on«
eighth of a doll r at the extraoi dinar)
meetings, except in cafr rfficknefs-r w*
whoever (hall not have paid up his contri
butions and fines at the end of each year,
lhall be deprived of the right of voting,
until he (hali hare fettled with the trea
surer.
Quorum to tonjlitute a meeting.—Article
7. In all meetings of the society, elever
members, iucludmg the prelident or vice,
prelident. (hall coaflitute a quorutn, and ir
cafe of absence of these two officers, th<
members present (being at least elevei
in number,) shall choose a president pro
tempore-
Officers of the society and ailing commit
tee.—Article 8. The olficers of the focietj
shall be a president, a vice-president, ;
treasurer, and two secretaries. There
shall also be a permanent committee, un
der the name of the acting committee, u
be composed of twelve members, of whon
the four firft mentioned in order shall bt
changed at every quarterly meeting, ajic
of whom five will form a quorum, met ai
the place fixed on by the chairman, whon
the committee shall have chosen at the pre
ceding fefiion.
Duties of the president.—Article 9. I
lhall be the duty of the prelident to kee|
good order in the assembly, to fgm up ar
giunents, to put the queltion, to take the
votes, and to call up the motions in order
When the votes shall be equally divided
the prelident shall have the carting vote
He shall sign the debates of the society, anc
shall execute those various other dutie!
which shall be prescribed to him by th<
conltitution. In his absence, his dutie;
(hall be performed by the vice-president,
and in the absence of the vice-prelident al
so, by the president pro tempore.
Duties of the treajurer.—Article 10. Tin
treasurer (hall be the depositary of the re
cord of the confiitution, as Scceptcd b)
the society, and shall keep a register of the
fubferiptions, which shall be ligned anci
countersigned by all the officers of the so
ciety. It shall likewise be his business to
receive donations, contributions, and fines.
He shall moreover keep a just and faithful
account, which he shall deliver to the ail
ing committee fifteen days before each an
niversary meeting, to beprefented re
marks, if need be-
Duties ofthefecretarics. —Article 11. The
secretaries .shall serve alternately. Their
duty shall be, to give public or private in
formation to the members of the time and
plice of holding the quarterly meetings,
anniversary meetings, or extraordinary
meetings, at least three day* previously ;
to take down minutes of the debates at the
meetings, and to keep the records of tranf
aftions ; to deliver the certificates of ad
mifiion ro all members ps the society that
lhall desire it, \\ hich ce.i tificate fiiall be figtl
ed yy the preiident, one secretary, & the
trealurer, who fliall receive oil account oi
the society, one dollar for every certificate,
before affixing his name thereto.
Duties of the acting committee —Article
'2 ■ The duty of the acting committee (hall
be to afliit with their advice, and with such
monies as the society fhnli leave to their
difpofd, all such unfortunate Frenchmen
as (hall requell it ; to keep a jourusl ol
their own meetings,<and to 111'ake rules pro
per to expedite, as much as pollible the re
lief to be affordjed ; to have an eye upor
the affairs of the society in the report
of its leflions ; to nominate their otfi
cers, such as the chairman who dial
prelide over them, and their secretary ; tt
propose in the meetings of the society
thro' their chairman, such objects as in tin
course of their bulinefs (hall appear t(
them deferying of particular attention
T he demands for pecuniary relief direfUt
by the a£ting committee, fliall be finned bj
the chairman, and the secretary of the fai<
committee.
Election of officers, arid of the attin%
Committee. Article 13. The election o:
officers and of the a&ing committee dial
be made by majority of votes, and by bai
lot. For the firlV year only, at each quar
terly meeting the society lhall proceed tc
there-elertioßof the President, Vice Pre
sident, Treasurer, and Secretaries. On tjie
fycceeding years these officers lhall be cho
sen at the yearly meeting, and (hall remair
elected the whole year.
Replacing of Officers. Article 14- It
cafe of the death or difmillion of an officer
there lhall be convened an extraordinarj
meeting, conformably to the sth'article,
within eight days afterward , for the pur
pofeof providing a fypcefl'or. In the in
terim, the acting committee (hall nominate
a fijbftitute. flioufd the cafe require it. _
Dijp sal of Tite funds »/' the Society. Ar-
The funds of the society (hall he
depcilited by the treasurer 111 the bank ol
the United Spates of America, in the name
of the society. as soon as four hundced dol
lars (hall be fubferibed ; mid nothing (hal:
be drawn from thence, without an ordei
firft signed by the president or the vice-pre
sident, the ireafu. er, or one of the secre
taries : which order fliall not receive tfrf
above mentioned signatures unless by <
\\ ritten request from the chairman and se
cretary of the atting committee.
Limitation of their uje.— Article l A
The society (hall at no timedUpofe of mor<
than four tenths of their capital in oii<
year, and even that (hall not take place til
after the completion of the present year
counting from the sixth of February. 1793
during which year the foc'u ty /hall not dif
pose of more than one fourth of its tapi
tal.
" Rules for their uje, and accountability
Article 17. At every quarterly meeting th<
sum fliall be fixed, of which the actmj
committee may difpole, during that quar
ter. This sum (hall never exceed on<
tenth of the (tock of the society, and th;
committee (liall account for its life, thro
their chairman, at the succeeding quarter
ly meeting. The president and the secre
tary (hall (ign the order, taken at eacl
quarterly meeting, relative to the sum fix
ed on ; and this order being returned u
the acting committee, lhall be their direc
tion towards diflributing relief. Tht
committee are not, upon anyprettxt vvha
ever, to go beyond this sum, and in cafi
of unexpected and urgent demands, whicl
will require funds more considerable, the;
are to wait for the decision of the foci
ety.
Alode of amending the conjlitution—Ar
:icle 18. The present constitution canno
be changed or amended, unless two third
of the. members present at the ordinar;
meetings (or at one extraordinary meet
ing convened for this pnrpofe, in conse
quence of a requisition made by (ix mem
bers to the president, or in his absence tc
the vice-president) (liall previously confen
to the amendments or alterations propos
ed ; these alterations or amendments lhal
then lay upon the table till the next quar
terly meeting, which (hall definitively pro
nounce upon the adoption or rejeflioi
thereof, by a majority of two thirds of tht
members present.
Done at Philadelphia the 6th of Februar)
1793 —The second year of the French
Republic.
[Here follow a great number of signatures. -
..i—iUM MBJUI'<I,3;-,-,»»»»«——
PHILADELPHIA.
March 9.
The following is a lift of appointment:
made during thefecond feflion of the Con
gress of the United States —Zebuton Hoi
lintjvjorth, attorney for the United States
in the Maryland diftiift, in the place oi
Potts, resigned. Copland Parker,
surveyor of the port of Smithfield. vict
James Wells, resigned. James Gibbon,
inspector of furyey, No. 4 in Virginia, vice
I Thomas Newton, jun. resigned. John
I Armijlead, surveyor ps the port of Ply
mouth, in North-Carolina, vice Thomas
D. Freeman. Thomas Parker, attorney
for the United States in the South-Caroli
na diftrift, vice John I. Pringle, rgflgne.d:
Thomas Moflat, fnrveyor of the port *>£•'
Frederickfburgh, Virginia, vice William
Lewis, appointed keeper of the
Oil Cape-Henry. Benjan.in Joy, of Mas
sachusetts, consul of the United States at
Calcutta, and other ports and places on.
the coast of India in Alia. Bettjamin Har~
■wood, commissioner of loans in the slate of
Maryland, vice Thomas Harwood, reiign
•ed. William Richardjcn, inipedlor of the
revenue for fnrvey No. 3, in* Maryland—
Thomas Overton, infpe£tqr of tke reve
nue for fnrvey No. i.N. Carolina, vice
James Read, religned. Thonas Ben
bury, infpeclor of the revenue for furvcy,
No. 2, N. Carolina ; his comtriiffion as in
fpeflor of fnrvey. No. 3, btin'g vacated in
cqnfeqnerice of an alteration in the fnr
veys. Daniel M K/Jfack, inspector of thd
revenue for fnrvey No. j, N. Carolina,,
vice Joseph M'Doxvell, resigned- fder.ify
Voight, of Pennsylvania, chief coiner in
the mint of the United States. Samuel
Trqduell, collector and infpeitor of tfip re
venue for the port of Fdei,ton, N. C. iJiii
infpe&or of fnrvey. No. i in the M.. C. jlif
trict, vice Thomas Benbury, deceafei^. —
Edward Way man, fnrveyor andinfpetlpr of
the revenue for the port of Charlelton, S,
C. vice > dward Weyman, fen. deceased.
George NiJicjas, attorney for the United
States in the diftrifl: of Kentucky, vice'
William Murray, resigned. Wiliiam Mun
fon, fnrveyor and infpe£tor of the port of
Connecticut, vice Hezekiah
Rogers, religned. Nathaniel Cutting, of
Malfachnfetts, consul of» the United States
for the port of Havre-tie-Crace, Edward
Fop, confu! of the United States at Fal
mouth, in the kingdom of, Great-Britain.
JoJephYznardi x confni of the United States
at Cadiz. Robert Montgomery, coijlul of
the United States at the port of Ali'c'apt
(Spain)— John Parijh, consul of thf Uni
ted Sta.tes at Hamburgh. Hfr.ry Cooper,
of Pennsylvania, consul for the Vnitel
States in the island of Santa Cruz'. David.
M. Clark]on, of Pennsylvania, consul o£-
the United States for the island of St. Eu
iiatius. Benjqmin H. Philips,of dp. con-'
ful of the United States in the island of
("urrafoe. Samuel C. Johonnct, ofMaf
fjchnfetts, ponful of the United States at
Demarara. Michael Murphy, consul fpV
the United States at Malaga, in Spain.
James Creenteaf of Maflachufetts, covful
of the United Stales at Amlterdam. 3i n~
jarnin Lincoln, of MaiTachufetts, ttevejly
Randolph, of Virginia, and Timothy Pick
ering, of Pennfylvama, 1 oinn:itßoilers on
the part of the United Statgs fiy holding
a treaty with the holHle Indians* William
Paterjcn, of N. Jersey, aflociate jiiftice of
the supreme court of the United St. ;es, in
the room of Thomas Joiinfon* refif.ned —
Me lane than Lloyd Woo/Jey. collector of the
diltri&ofChamplabe, in New-York state;
and, William. 7honip)ofy, for tlltt
port of Hardwicke, 111 Georgia.
ExtraS of a letter Jrom a Gentleman in Vir
ginia, dated Feb. 26.
" The lirlt Report, wb'ch I curf?'-"'y.
-ead, breathes a fpii it of reprehenfipn of
:he legislature for instituting the enquiry,
lulecent and bordering on what may not
improperly be c;U{ejl infylenr? ui office,
md will, I expect, undergo the severe ani
madversion of the legislature, unlefi they
tan ftibmit to the imputation of negletling;
to perform that duty which the conftitu-
Lion and the interest of their conflituents
required. It is very civil in the financier
to tell the legislature they might have got.
the information called for by coming tQ
his office, instead of giving hinj the trouble,
of bringing it to them : but fhonld there
exilt hetween the members and the finan
cier this tender regard for his feelings by
avoiding public examination, how are the
people to be informed from time to time
of the application of their money ?—By,
I presume, those clear, concise, ai.d per-'
fpicuous exhibitions pccalionaliy reported
by him, which may be understood by Con
greft and those about the feat of govern
ment, but not so by the people at large ;
who would be much better ratified by ths
certificate of a committee of Congress
having examined and pafled the accounts, 1
than by any publication of the financier."
Chefler-Town, March ;th, 1793.
At an adjourned meeting of the " Chef
terTovvn Abolition Society ", heid in this
place the 2d instant, the following gentle
men were c'lofen ojficers for the prefenc
year: PRESIDENT, James M. Ander
son—Vice-PreHdent, J.osf.?h K. Ni
cholson—Secretary, Abu AH a >1 Ridqe-
LY —Treafurer, James Plper—Counfel
lors, James Hotiflon Joseph H. Nicholfim.
—Honorary Councilors, Jaines Scott,
John Scott—A£iing coptuitlee, James
Maflin, William T. Rinrgolfl, NjchoUs
Brown, John Lorain, \Varller Raiin,
Abraham Ridgely.
Several communications, too late
for this day's paper, lhail appear iu out
next.
P R ICE 0? STOCKS.
Sis Per Cents ,8/
Three Per Cent; jo/4
petered ,, /4
Bank of the Uniped States
B. N. Am*rif» ji do. *U NiTED STATE S.
In Senate, 'January 29th, 1793.
.The Coriimitti-e to v.'was referred the
Motions i cfore the Sena e illative tc
the MeASU&ES and W eights of tht
Unilei, Staves, —report,
r e '' ailt^ OT *' ,e mea
A fines and weights of the United
States bean uniform cylindr cal rod o)
iron, or such length as ill the latitude oJ
forty-live degrees in the level of the ocean,
and in r:n apartment of uniform tempera
ture, shall perform i:s vibrations in one se
cond of mean time ; that the diameter oi
f'icli rod shall not be more than the hun
died and twentieth part of its length, noi
the ate of its vibrations more than four de>
grees, and that the said flandard rod fhal
be divided into four hundred and eighty
nine equal par's
2d. I hat the unit of measures of I ngtl
fha 1 be a foot, which shall be equal ir
length to one hundred parts of the afore
said ftandird rod.
That sixty fix feet shall be a chain, anc
eighty chains a mile.
3d. That measures of furfacc be mad<
by squares of the measures of length ; bui
in the Ct-fe of land the unit shall be ar
acre, which shall contain forty-three thou
(and five hundred and sixty fq>iare feet.
4th. That the unit of the measures o
cap city shall be a bushel, which shall con
tain one cubic foot and a quarter of <
cubic foot.
sth. That the unit of weights shall be;
pound, which shall be equal in weight to fix
teen thousand cubic cents of a foot of r ir
water, me fured and weighed in an apart
ment of uniform temperature
6th. That the units ol the measures anc
weights ol the Uni ed States shall be di
vided into rents or hundredth parts, am
where necessary into mills or t.ioufandtf
parts; and in the cafe of weight 3 the mil
shall be divided into seven grains.
Explanation of the Report of the Commit
tee of the Senate, to whom the Subje3 o J
Weights and Measures was referred.
THE report of the committee is found
ed on the principle that a rod which vi
brates seconds in the latitude of forty-fivi
degrees is fifty-eight inches and sixty
eight hundredths of an inch in length ;
dividing a rod of that length into foui
hundred and eighty nine equal parts, oru
hundred of those parts will be equal tc
twelve of the above mentioned inches, 01
the foot now in use. In this way a roc
may be made a flandard, and if the mea
fures in use be 101 l or become uncertain, ii
may be always resorted to in any part o
the United States, by making due alow
ances according to tht difference oflati
tude.
The committee propose to m ke certaii
measures and weights now 111 use, the unit
of the measures and weights of the Un : tei
States, that the adoption of the fyllcn
may be the more easy to the community
as no difference will take place in the con
tents of the units It 'is also propofet
that the units fhou d be divided into cent
or hundredth parts ; this div fion woulc
make tie arithmetic necefTarv for the com
mon purpofei of life easy to every capacity
as the four simple rules woul.i be ftifficient
without the compound met os j and ai
the divisions of the units of the measure:
and weights would be the fame with thoft
of the u i' of the money of account, th<
fame species of arithmetical calcnlatioi
would take p ace, and the computation o
either would soon be easy and familiar
By the division of the units into cents, tin
denominations of the measures and weight!
would be few in number, and those fami
liar to our ideas, and the memory woulc:
be no longer burthened with the perplex
ing multiples and divisions of the present
measures and u eights.
In the n eafures of length, it is propofecl
that the foot, cnain,and mile should remain
the fame as those now in use. The divi
hon of the foo». into cents, will be conve
rgent foi wotkmen, as Gunter's carpenter's
rule, vvßich is generally used, is divided
into cents, as well as into inches ; so that
the relative proportion between them may
be eaftly ascertained. The chain is the
infttument generally used in meafuringdif
tiinces, and. is found from experience to he
the mod convenient length for a&ual mm
furation : it is four of the present rocs 01
poles, twenty-two yards, or sixty-six feet ;
and ten chains make one of the present
furlongs.
In the measure of land, the r.cre is pro
posed to be the fame as the present acre*,
and illmeaiuripg of land the chain is also
n! d ; it is already divided into han redth
parts, called links; chains and links mul
tiplied by chains and links give acres and
decimals of an acre, which has occasioned
the divilion of an acre into cents, to pre
vail already in some of the flaus, in pre
ference to roods and perches.
In measures of capacity, the bushel i;
proposed to be a cubic foot and a quarter,
or two thousand one hundred and iixtv
cubic inches, which is about a mean of the
several b ifhels now in use ; some of tht
llates having bushels containing near fifteer
cubic inches more, and others near as mr.cl
l'-fs, —it is the quantity proposed by tht
Secretary of State in his report on mea
sures and weights ; his idea is also adopt
ed of abolilhing the diftiu6tion betweer
wet and dry measures, of disregarding the
ale and w.ne gallons and o having only
one measure of capacity By dividing the
bushel into cents, an easy reference may
be made from the cents to the different
measures of capacity now in use: Fifty
ents will he equal to the h ilf bulhel, and
(wentv five cents to the peck.
In weights, the pound is proposed to be
:he fame as the Avoirdupois pound, and
he gram the fame as the Troy grain ;
by dividing the pound into cents, tht
:ents into tenths or mills, and the mill in
to seven grains, a series is formed whicl
;onnefts with exaftnefs the pound Ai'oir
[<upois with the grain 1 roy. In weigh
ing large quantities the Avoirdupois furies
is used ; in weighing valuable articles, as
j;old, lilver or diamonds, or small quanti
ses as medicines, the Troy series is used :
.he two series may therefore be connected
o as to make but one species of weight:
icccflary, without any inconvenience :
The weights for gold and silver, the iteel
j'ards, and the common iron weights, may
:ontinue to be used, and be adapted tu
lie new series.
To the Citizens of the United States.
□ s THE DISCONTENTS AND PARTIES IN
the United . tapes.
THE true cause of both is the funding
Tyllem—it is founded in injullice—it has
.•ommitted a three fold robbery.
lit. Upon the officers and soldiers ol
:he late Amtrican army, who were com
pelled contrary to a solemn contract, tc
eceive a certifica c worth only 2f(> in the
jound instead of twenty (hillings.
2d. Upon the whigs of 1776 who fold
:he>r houies and farms, and lent their all
:o th s country, and who were afterwardj
:omp lied by the iufolvency of Congref
0 tell tue (.ledger of their loans for 4 or
1 (hilling. in the pound to keep themfdve!
Rom ttarving
3d. The funding system has robbed the
L n:ted States bv rendering the redemp
ion of the diWt more difficult and bur
henfome than it might have been made,
y borrowing money in Europe at 4 pei
:ent. a-d purchasing the debt of the Uni
:ed States with it.
Tlie injustice and wickedness of th.i
y(t m doe» not (top here. It compcis,
.vithout a single exception, the officer;
ind f Idiers of tilt late American army,
ind the whigs of the years 1776 and 1777
o pay the deficient sum they loft on thei;
■ertificates to the purchasers »r present
of them Jhe murder of the
Mexicans by the Spaniards 111 South-Ame
iea, in order to dilcorer their treasures of
ilver, docs not exceed this moll flagitious
6k From this poison us fountain hve
tic.wed all the discontents and clamours o(
3Ur country. It has inflamed and divided
1 1 e citizens o ft.-te; formerly united like
a band of brothers. It has railed fpecn
lators and the friends of speculators to
some of the highell honors of our count y
It has opened batteries of scandal againll
some of the purest characters in the le
flative and executive dcpar ments of our
government. It has created the moll
malignant hatred between the inhabitants
□ t our cities and country places. It has
giv 11 birth to a set of vultures who have
grown fat upon the miseries of our ci i
zens. It has created sudden miniftetial
ellates, and with them all the folly and ar
rogance of sudden elevation. It has gi
ven being to that imtnenfe inequality of
fortune which is so dangerous to public
liberty It h s given a check to ir.dullry
by diverting many fiom uleful employ
ments to speculation. Intoxicating as a
South-Sea bubble, it has scattered ruin o-
vcr the unwary, and Las beggared many
worthy characters. It has created an un
due influence in our government, alarming
to the friends of equal liberty. Happy
w 11 it be for the citizens of the United
States, happy will it be for the unborn
lons of America, if its evils end here !
The Voice or the People.
March 6, 1793.
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.
February 1793.
D. 111 Bar. ffift. ty.nf. Weather
Tuesday, 26. j 29. (I 35 N. E. Rain.
2 2<:- ' w A fifty.
Wtdnejday, 27. 7 lij. 7 43 ~ Ru:~.
2 2043 \VNW. Clcudy.
lburjaay, 28. 7 30. 4 14 N. VV. Fair.
",o ; 26 V. VV.j do.
1 riday t Mur. 1. 7 30. 7 20 ~ Fa.r.
2 30 55 -S do. do.
Saturday, 2. 7 30. 5 3: "cdiin. hazry,
7 4 51 S. Ckuily
Sunday, 3. 7 30. 15 48 ~~sT R7w
2 3<i<. iq 63 S. "W Fitir.
Monday, 4. 7 JO. ij 43 calm. Hazey,
2 3c. 05 6J | S. do.
PRICE CURRENT.
A Dollars. Cents.
-iiSHES, pot per ton i2od?»i2sc
— peari ditto 134 dto 140 c
Bacon, flitches per lb He
Ihoulders 1 do
Beet, Bolton per barrel 7(1 to S<
Country do Cd/ovc
lieer, American in bottles
including bottles per doz. id 141
ditto per barrel 4(
Bees wax per lb 26c 28c
Brandy, Coniac per gal 90c iooc
common do 75c
Butter in kegs per lb 12c 131
Cheese, Country per lb 8c io<
- English , 9 c
Chocolate 18c 2ci
Coal. per bu!hel 20c 221
Codfifh per cwt 3d 50,
Coffee per lb 16c 18*
Copperas per cwt id 67(
Cordage, American per cwt 7d 67c
Cotton per ib 26c 31" <
t ' iax: per lb 8c 101
Haxfeed per hhd. 9 <
Hour, Superfine per barrel 5d 5a
Common 5 d 151
Bur-midlings, befl 4d jch
Meal Indian ~d 101
Rye, do 3d 331
iin, Holland per cafe 4d 70c
per gallon 80c 441
jinfeng, 20c 281
Gunpowder, Fine glazed per q c 1
Orain, Barley per bnfhel id 14c
Belt shelled per bush. 2d 6 7c
Buckwheat per bulhel 2-c
Indian corn 60c
ferfey, do 631
Oats 2 2 (
Rye 6o>
Wheat id i^i
Hams per lb 9 ,
Hemp, imported per ton i2od 14611 67<
American per lb 4c 5,
Hides, raw per lb pc ik
Hops 27,
Honey per lb 8,
Indigo, Carolina per lb id id 2o<
French idibc id 53,
Iron, Bar per ton
Cartings per cwt 3d 4c
Nail-rods per ton nod iuc
p 'g 24d 26d6 7 <
Sheet 173 d 33 (
Irons, fad 1333 3<
Lard, hogs per Ib IOC in
Leather, loal per lb 14c 17c 2c
Myrtle wax per lb ' I 2(
Molasses per gallon 53c 571
Mustard, flower, in bot. per doz id 20c
second quality, per doz 8"<
Nails, 8d tod i2d and 2od per lb io<
Oil, Linseed per gallon (,-<
Olive 8 : c
per cafe 4 d Jt
Pepper per lb 38t
Pimento , 8c Iyc
Pitch per bbl 2 d 25c
Porter per ca/k ~6 ( j
London per doz id 601
Amer. bot. inclu. id 4c id 6-c
Pork, Burlington, per bbl iod 67c nd
Lower county g t l
Carolina 9( ]
Rice per cwt 2 d 88c
Rum, Antigua per gal K ]
Barbadoes 81 c
Country, N.E. 65c 70c
Jamaica . -d 6- c
saltpetre per cwt 1,,
Salt, Allum, per bulh 53c
Cadiz oc
Lisbon
Liverpool ,. t
Snake root per lb 2 -c
Snuff, per doz. bottles 4 d jd 60c
per lb 33c oc
Soap, Brown per ib g c
White „ t
Starch per lb
Sugar, Havannah, white, per lb i',
Brown IIC , 4l
Muscovado per cwt 13d 15c!
Lump per Ib
Loaf, (ingle refined,. 25c
double ditto.. 33,.
Tallow, refined, per lb 9 c
Tar, Newjerfey 24 gal per bbl id 20c
7 —Carolina, 33 gal id 33c id 67c
Tea, Hyson per lb 93c id 28c
Souchong 50C 93c
Boliea -^ c
Tobacco, James River, best 3d 60c 73c
Interior 3 d i3 c
4d 67c
Rnppahar.nock 3d 33c
Coloured Maryland cd 33c 8d
P- ,rk 2d 40c
Long-leaf 2 d 40C
Kaftern-lhore ->d 2( | ,^, c
Carolina, new id 7c ?d
Turpentine per bbl ,d 6;c"d
VVine, Madeira,p. p. i 7 £d 200 d 22Cd 6-c
t, in>o % , '33d 33 c
Tenenffe per gal f>-, c
Sherry ld IOC '
FOR sale.
The Subscriber wifiies to fell the HOUSE
and LOT in Princeton, now in the tenure
1 William Worth , it is an eligible stand, either
■oi a | tivate family or a traatefman, being situated
n the North fide of the fiieet, near the centre of
the town, and a little east of the market house—
1 he lot contains futty-two feet in front, and up
wards of two hundied feet in depth ; on the pie
n.iles is eredted, and in good tenantable order, a
two Hory dwelling house, twenty feet front by 26
n depth ; two rooms on the lower floor, win an
fix feet wide; three rooms on the iccond
» and a room in (he garret, lathed and plaf.
ered. In the rear of the house, and adjoining
'hereto, is a large kitchen, and the cellar extendi
iinder the whole of the house. In the yard, tht e
s a well of excellent water—the yard and garden
're enclosed with a good pale fence. This bouse
•nd lot m ght be an objccT to f,>me gentleman Aho
"'tht with to educate his children either at the
College or the Latin or Englift fchoo s, which
lie conduced upon an improved plan—The title
s indisputable, and poffefiion mav be had the firfl
>f April. For terms apply to the fublciiber in
Pnnceton.
JARED SEXTON.
PRINCETON, Feb. 28. 4W2IW
~i~o~ißiE~sinrDr^
By JOSEPH CRUKSHANK,\nMar.
iet Jheet,
LETTERS
Addreflcd to the Yrvmanry of the United
-.tates, (hewing the necefiity 01' confining the pub
ic revenue to a fixed proportion of die net pio
uce of the land, and the bad policy and injufticc
>1 every fpecits of indirect taxation and commer
ial regulations .
BY A PARMER.
Also, may be hao at the lame place, a few co.
>;es of tSe FARMER'S LETTERS, containing
bfervations on the dangerous scheme of Governor
)uer ani Mr, Secretary Hamilton to ellablifh
ati 'nal Manufaflures.
St. law
The Barracks in Perth AviboTT
Late the property of Major Richard Lloyd
Deccajed,
vylLI. berxpofed to p .unc sale on Monday .
the firft day of April next at the house of
John Th<>mpfon i n Perth Amboy aforefaid .- fcid
barracks are an elegant laige brick build ng
rontaining about 30 rooms, the middle house of
"hich is three stories high— They are finely f ltu .
ated commanding a beautiful profpett of th
rown and furrour.ding waters—the lot on whu£
:hev stand, contains about one acre and an half i n
which are two wells of* excellent water—At the
lame time and place will be fold a water Lot
£d dock lot lying in Perth Amboy aforefaid —
for all which good titles (by virtue of an order
H the Orphan court of the county of Midolefex)
jw;l be given by '
WILLIAM LLOYD.
NA j H -\NIEL K.ER.
Allentown, Monmouth count), Feb. 25, 1793
4t.iaw,
THREE POUNDS REWARD.
RUN AW AY from the lubl'criber, on Sun"
day the 13th of January, an apprentic e
ad to the blacjcfmitfis hufinef, named John Lay
in, about eighteen \ears of age, five feet thre e
it four inches high, had on when he went away,
I half worn fupetfine brown coat, a ihort drab
jrtout , bus} caffimer breeches a little faded,
■vorfted (lockings, his ihoes tied with black wor
tedftringsj he is remarkably fond of (hong li-
is very talkative when a little intoxicated,
.nd fp'aks with a coarle strong voice ; whoever
i ore , ends laid apprentice and secures him, rt«H
lave the above reward, and if brought home, rea
enable cnarges paid.
ISAAC WOODLAND.
Georgetown, Kent county, Cross Roans, Ma
y'anJ FeJ * 4> 1793- 1aw.31.
I hose gentlemen, in different parts of the
Unioh, *ho h«ild
SUBSCRIPTION PAPERS FOR THE
AMERICAN REMEMBRANCER
Are requelted to make returns of the fubferi! '
b-rs* namts ai fuon as convenient—
MfflVs. the Printers, also, who have, ar my
equelt, publilhed the prupofals, will please to fend
in their tefpeftiveaccounts. JOHN CAREY
No. 26, Pear-Stieet, Philadelphia'.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS and SWAINE,
AT THfilK OFFICE NO. 209, HIGH -5 T R.E RT,
NEAR FirTH-STI fIT,
fHJLAOSIPHIA,