By P. FREN EA U : (at No. 209, Market Ssrect) PuhUjhtd Wednesdays and Saturdays, [Three Dollars per annutr.J
Numb. 63 of Vol. If.] WEDNESDAY, June 5, 1793.
FOREIGN ADVICES,
LONDON, April n.
*' arc now embarked in a warwith
* France,upon the old U'igenr lisp in
cipleofjol.'ling in kicking a man down hill
\vhen all the world is aijai ilt him. The
•war however is carried on under peculiar
circnmflances. fiancehhea e few trading
lliips at sea, few foreign polf.'flioiis which
(he does not al molt wim to Jof*. and has
many spare hands to throw into her fliips
of war, whereas ours can be but weakly
manned. She will either defend the Weil
indies with negroes armed to aflitt her, or
more probably, fuiVer us to take tht-m, or
at lead a part ot them, and to be at the
trouble of aranging their governments ;
and then attack our trade during the war,
and demand the reftitutiou ot them or ot
their equivalent at the peace. To know
the force of France at sea, conlider her on
ly as an Algerine power, of twenty times
the naval (trength of such a power, and
with a far more dangerous situation for at -
tacking our trade and wafting our poffefli
ons; a'id with i iti lirely more power to
defend -herfelf at home againit iiivalion.—
To fheir formidable artillery a id engineers
the belt in Europe, they join under dit
fere it (happs. one mi! ion of mufquetry,
and miv add to them whenever ;he> thoole
two millions of pike men ; anew invented
■weapon, but which bds fair to render
thole invincible who become dextrous in
its use. and fooneror later to overthrow
all off.'alive war a id all internal tyranny,
inasmuch a3 Handing a mies mu't always
be weaker thin arm d nations. Th j
French hive now acqu red nor only mili
tary experience, but th c ijlilitary pafiion. I
too natural in man, which is now become!
the predominant palfiquin France.—Here,
in L igiand. we ar# depending on the fiic
cefs of intestine divilions in France ; and
so we have done for tour years, and yet
we fee their prcfent exertions, which are
far greater than in the time of their mo
narchy. Whenever the/ seem nrareft to
an extreme calamity, they have always
been found nearest to a remedy, tne dan
ger producing a proportionate exertion.
The French now perceive that Britilh
treasures are spent in feeding factions in
France, and will soon turn the tables upon
ut with our citholics and negroes. Cor
ruption is no new instrument, it was tried
in America : it will have a given success
and no more "
On Wednesday at noon, Sir James Mur
ray landed at Dover, after a a ge of
eight hours from Offend, and took poll
immediately for London, where he arri
ved between eleven and twelve at n gnt.
Sir James le r t Antwerp on Tut flay;
and beiides a confirmation of tile failure of
Dumourier's plan for res oring royalty in
Francc, and his being ob to consult
his personal fafetv, by 11 > n,i t ■oni hso n
army to the Aultrians; brought the res
of the Cougrefi. held at Antwe: p ou Mon
day.
At the Congress were present.
The Prince of Orange and his two sons,
His Excellency Vander Spiegel,
His R. H. the Duke of York.
His Excellency Lord Aukland,
Hij Excellency Kuller, MVniOer
of Pruflia,
His R- H. the Prince de Saxe Cobourg,
His Excellency M. Metternich and
his two sous.
The Count de Staremberg,
The Cpunt Mercy d'
The Minister of
The Minilter of Naples,
The obje£l was to fettle a general plan
for the profecntion of the war, and, as Du
mourier's defection had produced no ijia
terial alteration, to determine whether tin
combined armies Ihould again attemjit the
invaiion of France.orby confining theFreuch
-within their own frontier, and cutting them
off from external communication, leave
the reltoration of monarchy to the effort'
of the loyalilts within the Kingdom, and
the natural progress of difconterit atifmg
from diltrefs among the people.
The ill success of the campaign of last
year, had taught the Aultrians and Pruffi
ansthe difficulties that must attend entering
France ; and produced declarations, that
it was not their intention to diftare a form
of government for the French, but to pre
vent the effects of those licentious princi
ples which tended to the fubverfiou of eve
ry eltablifhed government.
BytheCongrefs.however.it was resol
ved to commence a plan of active operati
onsagainft France, and instead of the chi
merical projeit of marching direftJy to Pa
ris, to beliege at once as many as pollilile
of ;he ■ftruig places on the frontier, which
*.\ ill block up er call off the greatest part of
the republican troops from the interior of
the kingdom, and leave the rovalifts with
in it, without ninth opposition. If these
places fall, they will be immediately occu
pied by the troops of the combined powers,
and serve as points to ast from according
to circumstances, whilltt'ne fleets ot Eng
land, Holland and Spain, are to lorm a
chain of cruisers round the coast, ready to
favour the royalifls wherever they appear,
"and to cut otf all supplies by sea, as the ar
mies will do by land. 7 has attacked and
hemmed in on all lides, with a ffrong par
ty to a.-t againlt them at home, the republi
cans, it is hoped, mult be soon subdued.
The cessation of holtilities was declared
at an end, and the allies immediately com
menced their operations.
Such we underltand to be the plan agreed
upon at this memorable Congress, in the
execution of which (jrtat Britain is to al
lilt with all her forces by sea and land.
Ofirs practicability weprefumenotto give
any opinion ; but from [he conduct ot the
allies in other cases, we have little doubt
but that ifihegai rTons on the French fron
tiers lliould fall, the Aultrians will take
podellion of French Flanders. Lorraine.
ami Alsace This being accomplifhtd,
P, utfia will have an equivalent in another
quarter, and peace will be offered to the
i- renth without much regard to what form
of government they may choose to eltab
blilrw
hxrrait of a letter from Antwerp dated
April 8.
" His royal hichnefs the duke of York
from JBergen-op Zoom, the prince of O
range, the hereditary prince, and lord
Ankland, from the II prince de Co
bo urg from Mons, with general KnobelN
dirf (of PTuffla,) and count Metternich,
hive arrived liere to consult on the plan of
operations to be followed in the eniuing
eanip-iin.
" The deputies put under nrreft by Du
monrier, and sent to prince Cobourg, are
at Maeftricht. —Dumourier with young E
galite, who now calU himfdl the duke de
Chartres, and his filter, Mademoiselle D'
Orleans, are at Mons.
" The army which general Dumourier
lately commanded, is in the utmolt conlu
fion. mid it is" even said entirely dispersed,
without any regular leader. T hat gene
ral perfuadec' him Pel f, from the personal
attachment (hewn him by his army, that he
mignt promise himfelf their support, to the
extent of his wilhes, in the project he had
5o Hied. He was, however, mistaken.
He had advanced as far as Camhray, on
the r >ad to Paris, when he found his army
deferring h m ; the artillery tirlt forfook
him, th n then ti anal guards. He then
hi: - ngued the tioopi ot the line, who, in
return, i .formed ii in, that, notwithstand
ing their lore to him as their general, and
as a brave f >ldier, they were determined,
to a m in, nether to fight againflf their coun
try, nor co violate that conftitutiou which
:lity hid sworn to maintain.
" General Dumourier finding that he
could not depend upon the army, immedi
ately fit out with jonng-Egaiite at the head
ot two regiments of horse, and took the
road to.Mons. He was, however, so close
ly purftied by a party who followed him,
that he was ..bfolutely obliged, to fight his
■vay. ...
"It is said, that Dumourier intends to
ecruit among the royalifh, who now are
very numerous in France.!!!
" The Aultrians havelaid siege to Conde,
and expect to have made conliderable pro
'l-efs in France before theend of fx weeks.
The French garrison that were in Breda
have made a requitition to be allowed a
Itrong escort, led they lliould be murdered
by the Brnbanters, who are highly incensed
against the French.
" The people of this place, when the
French attempted, before the arrival of the
Anflrians, to carry off the images and plate
iiom the churches, afl'embled and declared
o general MarefTe, that if they did not im
mediately replace the flatties, they would
rake exemplary vengeance upon them.—
This had the desired effect-"
Dumourier wrote from Mons, requeflin£
permission to attend the Congress which
wasrefufed him.
When he f«t out for Paris, he wrote to
the prince of Saxe-Cobourg, that he could
I depend on the garrison of Conde, and that,
if the AuUriaus would approach it at a par
titular time, it would certainly be deliver
ed up to them. A detachn ent was sent
according to his directions, the command
ing officer of which, after waiting some
time, and receiving no proportion from the
sent parties to fcuur the country
lor intelligence. Soon after information
was brought him from Mous that Dumou
i er vas arrived there, and that the plan
had miscarried.
Duinourier sent notice to the prince of
Saxe-Cobourg, that on the firlt appearance
cf difl'atisfailion he had founded his army
regiment by regiment, and found that none
would Hand by him but two regiments of
cavalry, making together about 1 100 men,
with which he had made his escape. He
,fcund it impracticable to deliver up Valen
ciennes and Conde, but exprefl'ed hopes,
that the garrison ol" Lisle would open the
gates. MareiTe, on whofr talents and abi
lities to serve the cause of royalty, he be
llowed a high encomium, he thought would
join with thegarrifon ol Antwerp ; and the
g ;rrifons of Breda, and Gertruydenberg,
he was confident would implicitly obey his
orders.
These were probably the felf-delufions
of a man, who was Hill willing to pcrfuade
himfelf and others, that he could perloim
fpiue part of his magnificent promifei. Tne
real (lite of the cafe appears to be, that
while his army thought that the convention
had sent to arrest him, merely becau:e he
had been beaten, they relented it as an <11-
fnU offered to themselves, and were ready
to make a common cause with their gene
ral ; but when they discovered, by feuding
Brturnonville and the corumiffioners as pri
(o iers to the Aurtrians, that he was in con
cert with the common enemy, they resolv
ed to abandon him He had been three
times (hot at before he made his escape,
wis purfiied, 3nd probably care cd but a
Tt'*s ftaraU part of the two regiments oi
horse to M«n».
General Valence was at Antwerp on the
day the Congress met, not as a member of
it, nor as a prisoner, but having gone thi
ther during the suspension of hoftillties.
Our accounts do not state on w hat motive.
It was reported, and gained credit in the
city, that the unfortunate prisoners in the
temple had been murdered at Paris We
traced the report to two of the channels of
information through which it was (aid to
have come, and found it with refpeft t«
them to be totally unfounded.
It was also raid that the convention had
ordered a million of men to be railed, and
I,2ooi'ieccs ofcannon to be call.
Pumourier refuelled leave to attero the
congress at Antwerp, not from any poeti
cal views, but merely that he might have
an opportunity of confuting so great an
authority as Lord Auckland on the subjeCt
of changing fides, he himfelf having been
troubled with scruples of conscience from
the moment that his army declared that
they would be true to theii oaths.
The mode of electing officers in the
French army which Duinourier in his let
ter, after the battle of the 18th of March,
pru'poled to suppress. has been the means
offavingthe northern army to the repub
lic. Had Dumourier had the appointment
of the officers everfmcehe took the com
mand, tlie army would have' gone with
him. By the mode of eleaion they are
worfefoldiers, but much better citizens.
General Dumourier has placed eighty
thmifaud pounds in the Englifli funds, for
what purpose time will discover.
One is tempted to admire the extraordi
nary address with which Dumourier firfl
lulled, and then triumphed over Jacobin
vigilance. It may be remembered, that
when he was minister, he was marked as a
suspicious charafler; nay, they difmifled
iiimfrom hi« employments He then de
termined to lote his life in the service of
his country, and affeCted a fort of patriotic
desperation. When with the army, he took
care by some important services, firft to sig
nalize himfelf, and impute blame to others; j
at length he seized upon the polVof Gene
rJtiflivno, and was {tiled by the ruffians he
served, the favionr of his country. Now,
lie throws off the mask, and avows himfelf
the ariltocrat he was born.
When the commissioners of the conven
tion were brought before the prince de Co
bourg, Camus, speaking for the reft of his
companions in misfortune, said, J tjptre.
Manfieui\ JW dpw auvez pour nous les e
gards qifontdns aux reprtjtntans (Vime
grande notion***'' 1 hope, Sir, that you will
treat us with the respeCt due to the repre
fentativesof a great nation. " The prince
replied. " Vous fousitz etre ajftrts qi.t J'
[Total Numb. 167.]
aura pour nous Its egards fat aux afajpnt
de Itur roy." ''Aflure yourlelves that I w 1
treat you with all the regard due to tli*
affalliiis ol their king.
Some reports Hate, that general Bourne
nonville is treated more honorably by
prince Cobourg, than the other coinmif
lioners of the coniniifiion. We are in.
formed that the latter have betn sent pr>-
foiters to the cadle atAiitweip, and that
Bournonville is confined at Bruflels. Thi»
circiniittancc, if true, give* a colour to the
report that Bournonville and Dumourier
had acted in concert, and accounts for the
compliments which the latter cunltantiy
paid him. particularly in his letter to the
convention on the 12th of March.
The Empress of Ruftia has sent persons
to all the towns through which the count
D'Artois was to pass, with inll ru£tions t<>
pay his royal highness all the honours due
to his rank, and to declare to him the in
terett which her imperial majesty lakes in
the cause of theFrcnch p inces.
The game which Dumourier is now
playing may afford him fonie credit, but it
will be difficult to fay much in favour of a
man, who'e leniiments and principles of
morality arc guided only by the molt inex
hauflibie ambition.
The marefchal prince of Saxe Cobourg:,
in chief ol the armies of his ma
jelly the empt ror and of the empire,
TO THE FRENCH.
The general in chief Dumourier has
communicated to me his declaration to the
French nation. In it I find the fentimeutg
and principles of a virtuous man, who tru
ly loves his country, and who wishes to
put an end t-> the calamities and anarchy by
which it is desolated, by procuring for it
the happiness of a constitution antl a wife
and permanent government. I know this
also to be the unanimous wilh of all the
fovcreigns whom some factious persons
have armed againtt France, and particular
ly that of his lru.jctty the tmperor, and his
Pruflian majesty.
Filled at this moment with ertoem for
the bulk of so great and generous a nation,
to whom the immutable principles of ho
nour and justice were held sacred, until,
by the repetition of outrages, dil orders and
impottures,lhat part of it has been eflrsng
ed and corrupted, which, under the m lit
of humanity and of patriotism, speaks of
nothing but affaflinations and poignards.
Knowing also that this is the wife of all
virtuous people in France,
Profoundly penetrated with these great
truths, and defiling nothing but the prof
pet ity and glory of a country torn by so
manyconvulfionsand misfortunes,
J declare by the present pioclamation,
that I will support by all the force in my
power, the generous ard beneficent inten
tions of the gmeral in chief, DtimoiJnr
and his brave ai my.
I declare besides, that, having lately
fought us on several occasion as a valiant,
intrepid and generous enemy, 1 will join a
part of my troops, fliould general Dumou
rier dtlire it, or even all my army to that
of France, to co-operate as friends and
companions in arms worthy of reciprocal
ettcem, so as to reftoreto France her con
stitutional king, the conflitution she has
chosen, anfl, as a neeeflary consequence,
the means of perfecting it, if the nation
fliould fiv'l 11 imperfcit; thus to reflore to
France, as well as to the reft of f vrope,
peace, confidence, tranquility and happi
ness. 1 therefore declare on my word of
honour, that I will not enter the territory
of France to make conquetts, but firnply
and purely for the purposes ;.bove menti
oned.
I further declare upon my word of ho
nour, that should the military operations
require one or more fortrcfles to be given
up to my troops, 1 will keep them merely
as a sacred tmft ; and I engage, in the
most express and positive terms, to restore
them as soon as the government which (hull
be ettabllhed in France, or the brave gene
ral with whom I am about to make a com
mon cause, fliall demand such a lonctfiion.
1 also declare, that J will give the molt
ttrift orders, and will take the most.
rous and effectual measures, that my troops
(hall not commit the least difordcr ; not
allowing thefmallcft exa&ion or violence ;
and refpefting, every where on the terrij.
lory of france, persons and property.—
Any one btlongingto my army, Who (hall
disobey my orders to this effect, fliall be
immediately puniflicd with the mofl igno
minious death. Given-at the head quar*
ters at Mons, jth of April, i - 93:
The pRINCit. EECOBOURC.The narefcha! prinre of 0 AXE-CcfSOURG
general v>i v• . ui.i icier i,j li;.#■ of Uk
armies ofii.smijeU) the c inpe- ar, a.ii
of the empire, o Tu : i
1 ae drciaratuitjNvhich I made I', im nt*
hs/a.! quarters at'Mons. dated ilie jcii o
•April, i 93, is a public celtiiiiofy of ni)
personal I ntLnents to reft-d*e, is fbou
P >(Rble, peaceaiul tranquility to Fur-ipe
l ilt I ma.ufel'ed, in a limere and oiie
m - finer, my particular deiire that th
1 vnch nation might have a foiid and dura
ble government; rounded oi tne u liiaice
bails <>t jit'tice and humriity, which
e larepeice to i.urope, and happmefs t
I' ' ice.
Now that the refulr of this declaratioi
is so ip,niJae to tile eft' cts it ought to hav.
produced, a >d which p oves bu too plain
iy tliac f»e feiitiments which have dittacec
it, have been mi u.iderltood, it only re
fiitioafor me to revoke it entirely, and c<
hectare formally, mat the llate of wa
xvhlch subsists between the court of Vien
na and the combined powers, and France
ss fVom this m mieni unhappily renewed
I si )d myf ; if, therefore, forced by the
predominating influence- of the 'circuin
itauces which ihe molt guilty m n perlift ii
directing to the overthrow and deltructioi
ot their country, to annul entirely my for
mer declaration, and to make known, tlia
a state of war, so unfortunate, being re
Hewed, I have given the necessary order
for re-commencing it, in concert with th.
allied powers, with all the energy and vigo
of which victorious armies are capable.
Thccefl'ation of the armiltice is the firl
hostile step that the unfortunate combina
tion of events has forced me to take
There u ill, therefore, only subsist, of m
former de laration, the inviolable engage
nient, which I again, renew with plejliwe
that the rao.'l ex ill difciplirie will be obfer
ved and maintained by my army upon th
J-'renth territory, and that every breac
thereof will bepunifhed with th* utmol
rigor.
The sincerity and loyalty which at al
times ha'e been the principle of my aiti
ens, oblige me to give to this new adder
to the French nitiou, ail the publicity o
which it is fufceplible, to leave no doub
of the confequem.es that may result frou
it.
Given at my head quarters at Moiij, thi
9th ol April, 179,3-
The PRINCE DE COBOURG..
Gen. DUMOURIER's LKTTFR
to the French Nation, dated Baths of St
Ama'id, Aprils, 1793.
SINCE the commencement of the revo
lution I have devoted myfelf to the main
ten tnce of the Liberty and Honor of thi
Nation
The services I renderedin theyear 1792
are the 1110 ft memorable. Miniller of so
reicn affairs during three months, I elevat
ed and fuffained the dignity of the Frencl
name chronghout all Europe. I was ca
lumiiiated by an odious cabal, by whom ]
was charged with having plundered so
jniliio'.js of livres deft in ed for secret fer
vices. I have proved, that of this fuin ]
did not expend half a million.
Hiving quitted the career of politics to
wards the dole of the month of June, 1
commanded a fmali army in the depart
ment of the North. This department ]
xvas ordered to quit withmy troops, at tlx
very time the Aultrians entered in forct
that part of the repub. ic. I disobeyed tht
order, saved the department, and an at
tempt was madeto come on me by surprize,
for the purpose of conveying me to the ci
tadel of Metz, where I was to be condemn
ed by a council of war to fuffer death.
On the2Bth of August, I took upon me.
in Champagne, the command of an arm)
of twenty thousand men, weak, and with
out either discipline oj" organization. 1
arrested tht- progress of eighty thousand
Pruflians and Heflians, and toned them tc
retreat, after they had facrificed the one
half of their army . I was then the favioui
of France ; and then it was that the moll
wicked of men, the opprobrium of French
men—in a word, Marat began to calum
niate me, without any mercy. With a part
of the victorious army of Champagne, and
some other troops, Lentered, 011 the jth oj
November, the Belgic Provinces,,where I
gained the forever.memorable battle ot
Jenappe ; and. after a fncceffion of advan
tages, entered Liege and Aix la-Chapelle,
towards the close of that month. From
that moment my deltrnftion was resolved
011 ; and I have been accused of nfpiring,
now, to the title of Duke of Brabant, now
to the Stadtholderfhip, and again to the
Di£tarorfhip. To retard and crush my fuc
cefTes, the Minister Pache, supported by the
Criminal faftio.n to whom all our evils are
to be ascribed, fuffered the victorious army
to want every thing, and succeeded in dis
banding it by famine and nakedness. The
eonfequence was, that more than fifteen
thousand men were in the hospital, more
than twenty-five thousand deferred through
misery and difgult, ind upwards of ten
thousand horses died of hunger ! 1 1
I transmitted to the National Conven
tion very ltreniioU3 remonstrances, which
I followed up by repairing in person to
Parts, to engage the legislature to apply
& remedy to the evil : they did not even
condescend to read the four memorials I
delivered in. During th« twenty-fix hours
I fp< ! t i-1 T"j>iis. I t emd (luring night
wands of pretended Federates demand ny
Head; and calumnies o every deli iption,
as well as uviinccs and intuit l -, foliowed me
ven i.jtu tlie country house to which I re
tired.
Having delivered in my resignation. 1
was retained in the ferviie ctfmy country
bec-nife it was proposed to me to negociate
ine fuipenhoi of the var agaiutl England
and Holland, which I had conceived as in
fpeiifiblc to the fact ty of the Netherlands.
W.nt't I nejjociated, and that luccefifully,
the national co.ivemioa itfelf battened (o
declare war, without making any pi epara
rations, and without either puutr 01
means for its support.
I was not even advised of this declara
tisn, and learned it through the medium of
the gazettes only. I battened to form a
fmali army of new troops, who had never
("tight; and wilh these troops, whom con
rirk nce rendered invincible, 1 made myfelf
ma'ter ot three strong places, and. was
eady to penetrate into the middle of Hol
land, when I learned the difalter of Aix-la-
Chaprllr, the railing of the liege of Mae
stri, tit, ana the fad retreat of the army.
Hy this army I was loudly summoned—l
abandoned* my conqueds to Hy to its fuc
c<mr ; and coufidered that we coukl be ex
tricated irom our difficulties by a speedy
luccefs only. I led my companions in.arms
to the enemy. On the 16th of March. I
hid a confide I';.ble advantage at Tiriemont.
On the 18th, 1 brought the enemy to a. ge
neral action; and tin centre and right
wing, untier my charge, were victorious.
The left winy, after having attacked, im
prudently Aid. O■< rhe 19th we retreated
honorably with the brave men th« were
lelttogether ; fir a part of the army dis
banded itfelf. On the 2i(t and 221), we
fought with the fame courage ; and to our
firinm fs was owing the preservation of the
remains of an ai my which breathes folcly
so true liberty, for the reign of the laws,
and for the ext.nction of anarchy.
It was then that the Marats, the Rohe
fp;erres, and the criminal fe£t of Jacobins
ofPiris, plotted the fall of the generals,
and more especially ot mine. TbcCe vil
lains, bribed with the gold of foreign pow
er to complete the disorganization of the
armies, caused almott all the generals to be
' rrefted. Thev keep them in the jails of
Paris, to Septemb. rize them ; for thus it
is that thele monitors have coined a word,
to hand down to polterity the remembrance
of the horrid mafl'acres of the firit fix days
of Septs mher.
Whittt 1 was employed in re-composing
the army, in which employment I labourtd
night and day : 011 the ift of April (yefttr
day) four cwmmiflioners reached me with a
decree, purporting that I (hould be brought
to the bur of the conventioH itfelf. The
war mmi<ter Bournonville (my pupil) was
weak enough to accompany them, to suc
ceed me in my command. The perfom
who were in suite of these perfidious emit'-
faries, informed me themselves, that ditfe
rent groups of afl'affins, either fugitives
from or driven OHt of my army, were dif
perfed 011 the road to kill me before I could
reach Paris. 1 spent several hours in en
deavor ng to convince the coinmiflioners
of the imprudence of this arrelt—Nothing
could (hake their pride ; and I therefore
arretted the whole of them, to serve me as
hottagei against the crimes of Paris. I in-
Itantly arranged with the Imperialists a sus
pension of arms, and inarched towards the
capital, to extinguith as speedily as possi
ble the lighted embers of a civil war.
My dear countrymen ! it is expedient
that a true and brave man remove from
you the veil which covers ail our crimes
and mi -fortunes.—in 1 "S9, we made great
tffoits to obtain liberty, equality, and the
tbvereignty of the people.—Our principles
were consecrated in rhe declaration ot the
R gilts of Man ; and there have resulted
from the labours of our legislators, ift,
the declaration which fays, that France is
and [hall remain a monarchy—2<lly, aenn
ilitution to which wefwoie feaity in 1789,
90. and 91. '
This oonflitution might, and indeed must
have been imperfect; but it ought and
might have been believed, that with time
and experience its errors would be recti
fied, and that the neceli'ary (trite between
the legislative and executive powers wogld
eltablilh a wife equilibrium, which would
prevent either of these powersfrom seizing
the whole of the authority, and attaining
defpotifin. If the despotism of a tingle in
dividual is dangerous to liberty,liow much
more odious mutt be that of seven hundred
men, many of whom are void of principles,
without morals, and who have been able
to reach that supremacy by cabals or crimes
alone 1
[Remainder in our next. J
N®. 11,
.To the PRESIDENT of the
UNITED STATES.
SIR,
TN countries where the people have little
or no (hare in the government, (as in
Great Britain for inftancc) it is not un
common for the executive to a£t in direst
oppofi-tion to the will of the nation. It is
to be hoped that the practice of apeing the
absurd and tyrannical fyttems of Britain,
though already carried to an alarming ex-
tent in this countfy, will never procced fa
iar, as to induce our cxetiiLive to try the
vain experiment of officially oppolinj; the
national will. An atceu.pt ot tins kind, at
present, would be ftcuiicd with defers eil
contempt, and bring rnin on its author ;
mill filth mu.t continue to be the cale, 1111-
ief's government lhal; be able to eliablilii so
liucli corrupt influence as, with ihe aid ot
-ayonet-logic, will be fnflicient to lnpport
t, in defiance of the people.
Had yon, Sir, be* ore you ventured to ifluc
a prociama ion which appear* co have given
much unealinels. confuited ths general fen
tinunts of your fellow-citizen-, you wou.d
nave lounil tkein, from one extremity oT
the Union to the other, firmly attached to
the cause ot France. \on would not have
found them disposed to conlider it as a
" duty" to forget theirdebt ot gratitude to
the French nation ; or to view with uncon
cern, the magnanimous efforts of a faithful
ally, to baffle the infernal proj;£ls of those
delpots w ho have confederate d for ihe pur
pofw of crufiling her infant liberty. Neither
would you have found them so tar divelled
of the feeli.gs of uien, as to treat with
" impartiality," and etjuul " friendfliip,"
thole tig«s» who so lately deluged our
country with'the blood of thousands, and
the men who generoutly flew to her rescue
and became her deliverers. No, Sir—had
even no written treaty exilled between
France and the United States, stilt would
the ffrongert ties ot amity have united the
people of both nations j Hill would the re
publican citizens of America have regarded
frenchmen, contending for liberty, as their
brt ihren ; (till would they have sympathized
with them in tl.eir misfortunes', and have
exulted in their success. Such, unques
tionably, is the difpolition of the generality
of the people of the United States with re
fpeft to the French revolution. To fn-i.li
a people it wou.d have been a pleasing or
umffance. toil ivebeen able to discover in
the proclamation a recognition of the trea
ties with Frniice. That so little attention
has been p.iid to the clamours which have
arisen on this lilbjecf, in various parts of the
Union, is to be lamented by every friend
to the general government. Had you. Sir
confide led the importance of retaining
your popularity,you would, perhaps, nave
lutened to the murmurs of the citizens ;
and l\a>e deigned to give tfcem fucb expla
nations as might appear nectfl'iry to cleai
up the doubts which yet distract their minds
If this would have becnde/iindi/.g too far,
the fecretarv might have been author.zee
to fatisty the dou&ts or correct the mittake:
of the people.
It ought never to be forgotten by but
magistrates, that popular opinion is the
balis of our government ; and that whei:
any public measure w not well uiultrftood,
it would be by no means degrading to the
authors of that measure, how ever exalted
their Ration, to explain. Let me intreat
you, Sir, to deal candidly with the people ;
and, without loss of time, to remove their
anxiety, hy i iforming them whether it is
intended that the* treaties with France are
to be observed or not.
I an aware, Sir, that feme court-fitel
lites may have deceived you, with refpefl
to the sentiments of your fellow citizens.
The lirft magistrate of a country, whether
lie be called a king or a prefute.it. ft Id o*l
•<now s the real ftateofthe nation, particu
larly if lie be so much buoyed up by official
importance, as to think it beneath his dig
nity to mix occasionally with the people.
Let me caution you, Sir, to beware that
you do not view the slate of the pub Jit
mind, at this critical moment, through a
fallacious medium Let not the little
of the aristocratic few, and their contempt
ible minions, of speculators, tories, and
British einiffaries, be milfaken for the ex
ulted and general voice of the American
people. The spirit of 1776 it again roofed;
and (oonfliali themulhroom-lo; dlingsoftiie
day, the enemies of American as welt ,is
French liberty, be taught that American
whigs of 1776, will not furfer French pat
'iot. ®t t792, lobe vilified with impunity,
>y the common enemies of both.
VERITAS.
June j.
PHILADELPHIA..
Wednesday, June >.
Last Saturday, an elegant civic fi??fV was
s' ven by the citizens ot Phil ulelphia. at
Hotel to citizen Genet, minif
:er plenipotentiary from the French Re
mblic to the United States. Upwards of
:wo hundred citizens partook of this en
rertainment. The following toath were
drank :—l. '• The people and the law. 2.
The people of France : may they have but
one head, one heart, and one aim in flip
port of the righteous cause of liberty. 5.
I he people of the United States—may li
berty only be their idol, and freemen only
be their brethren. 4. The Republics c'f
I" ranee and America—may they be forever
united in the cause of liberty. 5. May prin
ciples and not men be the objeifs of repub
lican attachment. 6. May France be an
example to the wor.'d, that tile balances of
government depend more upon kniAvlec. l e
and vigilance than rpijn a multifarious
combination of its powers. 7. In coni
plsiping of th? rcrrporary evt!: J. rev«:u-
tions. may we n.rver farjet ftiat the greater
eviis of monarchy aid ariflocraiv a reper
petnal. 8. 1 lie spirit of fc-venty fix and
ninety-two—may the citizens of America
and France, as they are equal in virtue, be
qua] ill fucctfs. 9. May true republican
Im.plicity be the oniy 01 nainent of the tua
: ill rate in every elective government »o.
Confufion to the councils of the confede
rated despots, and difm y ro their hofb—
may they never be able 10 form a certre cf
11 to .01 ofaflion. it. May France prove
a political Hercules, an<l exterminate the
hydra <1' despotism from the earth. 12.
f. ace, liberty, and independence— inay th«
tyrants ai d traitors of' all cotintrie» be pu
nilhed by the elfabliiliment of the happine-ft
which they wiih to betray or dellroy. 13.
May the iyiicms of the United States be en
tirely their own, and no corrupt exotic be
engiaftcd upon the tree of liberty. 14.
May the defection of individuals teach us
tu place our hopes of the fafety aivd per
petuity ot freedom', on the whole body of
the people, ij. May the clarion of free
dom, (Vunded by France, awaken the peo
ple of the world to their own happinefs
and the tyrants of the earth beproft; ated by
its triumphant founds."—Fifteen rounds of"
cannon were fired for the ift, Bth, 3nd lalt
toalls, and three for all the reft. Several
volunteer toasts were afterwards given by"
citizen Genet, the governor of the State,,
doctor Hutchinfon, Sic. and a number of"
songs sung, adapted to the occasion. The
cap oi' liberty w as placed at the nead of tbe
table between the American and French
colours, and about nine o'clock the ton —
pany broke up in perfect good order and
good humour.
o.n Saturday Kill (the ift of June) ar
ri\ed at New-York, the lhip William,,
capt. Ander 011. in 41 days from Liver
pool 1 his v> fiel brings London news u>
tlie iSthiof April, tlie particulars of which
will be given in our next. — The film of her
accounts is, that Portugal hail joined in the
league againfl France : That a French jm
baU'ador had arrived at Lifboii, who after
two days flay„was ordered to leave tie
kingdom immediately— that an infurreflioji
had taken place ill Pat is, wherein 30.c00
persons 101 l their lives—that all the Bour
bon family, except the queen and the pri
fonersin the temple, were to be confined
at Marseilles, and to be held as holtages
lor tlie fafety of the tommiflioners, \* lioiu
Duinourier's treachery had delivered 1 p.
to the Auftriaus.— The foregoing, will*
m.iny others, are Hr 1 tifh minilferial ac
counts. From the minutes-os tlie National-
Convention proceedings, and other Pari*
documents to nearly the middle of April,
the republic was in fafety,. tji« ini'urgents
on the decline, and a certainty e.sifted that
Dumonrier, witha troi pofhufi'ar cavalry,
general Valence, young Orleans, and s ie\v
otner officers had gone over to the enemy,,
but that the army remained firm, and wa
re-organizing anclre-er.liff mgrapidly under
general Dampierre ; I(i unfa lids of recruits
were coming in every day, and the north
eni army growing to fucli a lize as to pro
mise in a ihort time to be able to re-com
mence active operations the despo
tic forces m a 11.011 time.
"The Traitorous Correspondence biP (fays
a letterfrom London) has paifed tiie Houie
of Commons, and will also. the House of
Lorrls—The American merchants ecu Id
not fnccsed in their applications for Ame
rican vefiels to be exempted. It checks alt
interconrle v\ith Frau-ce, even in neutral
bottoms. Infurames hei e 011 all veliels,
even American to France are void, though
from America direct with provisions of e
very dtfeription. No vefiel touching here
andifor a market can go to France.
" It will be followed tip bv ail the F.ll
- courts to check ail political ant?
commercial intercotirfe with France."
•' The Congress at Antwerp have deter
mined an active vvaragainll France, wit It
all tile combined furies by Tea ai.tl land."
1 he frigate l'Ambufcade failed from the
port of Philadelphia 011 Saturday morning
'ast, fuppofi d Oil a cruil'e ; but her deltiua
t on is not certa.,.ly known.
The fliip Hero, one of the F.njylilh mer
chantmen that engaged the Sans Culottes
atf the Capes of Chel- peke, had her quar
ter and flern Hove i t by the severe fire from
the ppiv jteer. The lull Ihot that the Hero
fired at the Sana Culottes, was accompa
nied with tlie captain's arm and ra.'iner of*
[he-cannon (the cartridge having taken lire
111 the act of loading )
The example of Humounei '.! treaeherv
(hould put people 011 thrift guard ajainffc
tonlling ME N. J his perfidious officer hats
been toalled near a thoiifand times in A
merica in public entertainments, and as
length turns out an arrant Arnold.
" It is worthy of remark, that the com
mittee who had the arrangement of tin
civic feaft, on Saturday lalt, determined to*
celebrate it in the true republican stile, and.
to regard principle', and not men. as the
übjeflt of commemoration ; in the opinion,-
t/.at principles alone, are immutable and in
ternal, but that men ureliable to changs."
An English squadron from Nova Scotia. ti; -
Jer Commodore Affleck, has taken St. Pe
ter's, a small ifiand belonging to the French
11 the neighbourhood of Newfoundland.
I t-is said, they proceeded from thence to
;.'je iilard of Ml-iueiou, c» An samsYcfterday arrived hero the brig \urora.
Cape. Stro.ig, in feveu clays from Chnrlef
ton. It appears from the public prin's by
this vefiel, the late accounts ut I'idiaii tie
predatiotis in Georgia had been greatly
exaggerated. In the month of May, oiu
family had been cut off: and that high tip
the Oconee river. One or two (light fkir
mi flies had taken place between very !mal!
parties of Indians and Whites. The Che
rokee? were perfcftiy disposed for peace.
The Chickafavvs had declared war against
the Creeks, and it was thought would be
joined by the Chaftaws.—The ri<_e cro]>s
in Carolina had been conliderably diiniajjid
by a fuccetiiou of great rains.
Patriotic Innholders Ihould be careful
in tiiis country not tra exhibit 011 their iipns,
the heads or representations of kings, de
spots, despotic generals. Saracens, princes
khans, mamalukes, and other tyrannical
rharafters that disgrace European and Af
fiatic legiilation. A writer in vefterday's
Dafly Advcrti/er jullly remarks 011 the ab
surdity of a number of republican freemen
agreeing to meet at the J'riiice of \Val<ifs
tavern on the St.i infant, on the Canal bu
iinefi. —"What concern have we (fay*
with the Prince of Wales, tyr his head ?
We Ihonld rather appoint a day of thanks
giving that we are not obliged to discharge
the d.btsof this promilicg youth Since th<
glorious American revolut on he ha< colt
Britain at leal! twelve or fifteen hundred
thousand pounds and he is at pre
f#nt fnppoled to be another mil ion worse
than n'thing. In plain Knglilh, he is a
bankrupt for that sum, and an api■■ 1 aiio
is expected in parliament next fellion, t"
fatisjy his creditors; while in th? iiae
time, his illnltrious papa has filteen n;
twenty millions fierling at inte eli
Such are the buffings of royihy. and tht ir
happy constitution has become, as Mr
Burke affurf u-, the wonder of furrouiid
i.ig nation- !"
After a forfeit it int lligence,
it may lot be am.Ps to give our re:.den a
scrap from.the moon—'• Mr. Herf-hcli
(fays a Liverpool paper of April 11) ha:
now, by the aid of his powerful glalies, re
duced 10 a certainty, the opinion that the
moon is inhabited. He has difcovrred Unci
and water, and is en ibltd to diftinguilh
between the grte.i and barren mountain
ous spots 011 the former, which, as with us.
are subdivided by theft 1. Within til le
few days he has ditlinguiihtd a large edi
fice. apparently of greater magnitude than
St. Paul's; and lie U confident of fliortly
being able to give all accouut of the inha
bitants. "
Extract of a letter from Laucaftcr, dated
May v
" From tht tenor of some late accounts
from England and Holland, it appears to
me that if there is not more virtue in the
bodv of the French nation than in a major
ity of her councillors and g?neral«,the revo
lution will fall to the ground and monarchy
again take pi ice. Should a counter-revo
lution be etfe&ed, and a king set on the
throne, no doubt it will at firft be in the
character of limited monarchy, in order to
regain gradually from the people what
would not infantaneoufly follow from tilt
counter-revolution. I look upon limited
and despotic monarchy, with aristocratic
republ'ca'iifm, to be one and the fame in
their general effects, only the latti r 1 more
refined way of cheating the prople th «n go
vernment in the hereditary ' or 111 Siionidmo
narchy actually be re established inFrance
I have 110 cKiubt it will be th;* predomi >ant
fy'lem for a century to c >me in the oh
wcirld, and 'if the fpjrit of p i.iof.ipiv and
free enquiry fhoul-l be ijue ic 'i< d ; perhap
forever. In the probability of either ci 1,
let Americans be upon the 100 vat la'
well affiired by late emigrants, that "0
pains are spired in Britain no expence re
girded to procure a government in t ..
United State , limUar to their n v 1 a id '■
the fame pnrpofes. Every a r t will H* •
for this e.id : let us therefo e w'i> li 1
public servants wit 1 the eve >f nnre"iitt n
jealousy. arid Ann d attemp" be m d' o
break through th" prt '<'P •' t rub
lican system, iet the of -1 ebe refetiud b.'
the people. The primip of our revolu
tion Ihoirtd be kept conltaiitly in view, and
practised. without which, tyranny w 1 soon
make her strides over lis, and crulli lis even
asthofe in Europe are crushed. It appears
to me that if the sacred fire of liberty and
Jiublic virtue is to be preserved in this
world, its temple 11111 ft he in America
(where virtue is yet fomeihing more than
a name, and (iifi.ntereftednefs not an abso
lute flranger) and that from hence Europe
jnuft be regenerated. This howaver can
only be effected by maintaining the put it)
of free republican government, growing
m are and more powerful and at length act
ing as a check upon monarchical ambition
Nothing appears to me more deftruftive of
liberty in America than the neglect of spee
dy rotation inimportant offices. Cincinna
tus after freeing the Romans, returned to
his 4 acres of ground and relumed the oc
cupation of the plough. We find few Cin
cinnatus's in our days ; but on the contrary
almost every public officer faying to his of
sice, eOo perpetua ! Ma)'tl thou remain
forever with me- Let us be grateful in
rewarding services and merit, but let not
our gratitude be at the expence of princi
ples.—N. B. J lift previouflv to writing this,
I have retehed some intimations gf Lu-
mojirier's treachery- Should this news be
vonSr-uwd.it will be another lesson to if
how much men ot' re 1 honor, probity. an<
principle, t>>i£ ht to he prized, yea. more
Mian the gold ot Ophir, when found- Bin
unfortunately time only can discover win
are the upright, and in the interim the
mifchief is awcoinpliflied. Were Ito givi
my dying advice to America, it would be.
not to ncglect elections. Sordid, ambiti
ousl and felf interelled perlons, and cha
racters rep ete with low cunning, are every
where foiftmg lhemfelve» into our repre
sentations. Hence it is that States truly
republican are frequently arifloiratic in
their representation. '1 he experience ol
every relielent freeman in the circle of his
own county or diltrid, might at all time*
determine vii are for the people and who
sor themfelvea."
Ei.trad ef a letter from Montgomery
county.
" Your description of the critical fitna
.-.tion of a reprefeiuative of the people in a
popular government, hnotonly «jutt one.
hut we fee it daily verified in this and other
countries ; and no man of parts, though he
may not be 4, tlie son of Jupiter," in my
humble idea, should riik his reputation
unong as„ lefled group of J!ate gambler*,
for the fake of popularity, in order to go
"nacks in their win ngs- —X on have been
»ro:ufr of "o jd la guagc to elifiuade me
from folic 'ting ai y i 6t nclion in this line,
•1 which I as rii i .-.fraid : for it is not
lie fir It invitation 1 have received from
refpertable perlonages in cur settlements
inn* I have redded -n the country, to ac
cept of that cfH ; to whom my answer
iia, eonfta itlv b '.n, " the post of honour
in t,mes of pi.b'lic commotion is a private
tation ii.d th .. p".b!'. employments,
from r/ ;ii* ;T lUulK'f, «■>'■ '<-■ tfiUcU ll
v, u: r r.ry fort of g«»ve, .Mnent., only
h to qtv lify one for a better
?i;oy,:i tile „ ■mafp.Jtate in
:hs even 'J of life, at 1 ' t. • place In the
pou er of thinjrs at pr. ie r t to give me,
:oii!d tempt me to ii". p tii and re
llnqr.i.h the ineffable f.vfets <»f independent
retirement. Sue. 1 , be been, you Well
.O ,my invariable declarations, both in
my public writing l ', as well as in my con
/erfatioas with m> friends, and I wish all
my arqu lintaiKe® now to know it.——l re
proach nor envy no man for the adventi
tious blelfings of a ;:ond edncj'tion u ' su
perior noderltandi 'g. Thele qualifications,
i ded by the experience of grey nittfl
qualify a m m. it any thing will, for taking
hi-- trick at the beiill of the ship of (late :
which characters, you inlitluate, may be
found in every townfl.ip a ,d fettleiuent.
whom our iotereft, cwme'ited together,
rm fleet tioffi e. But this i» a random
(hot of yours, ancf wide, I believe, from the
definition , f your views. Doleful txpiri -
enee,l am very sure.tells n» there re few
luch men throughout the Itate, w h>» have
not bowed the supple kn. # to Bail in the
polluted temple of devoted Niniveh. II
however, such men are really to b.-? fou'd
thev are prudent enough to Hand ulool
from the perils of public life.
" Happy the man who innocent
brieves not at ills he can't prevent,
H stkiff does with the current glide,
Not puffing pill I'd againtt the tide.
He piddling by the fenffling crowd
Sees, utv oncerned, liie's wager row'd,
And wl en he can't prevent foul play,
1. ii joy - the fillies ot the fray."
B«t dul ili men join In opinion with this
poet, and con.ur in a tame acquiescence
•\ ith the nulverfitions of bad men, anil
D id me ftires in government, there would
■"-)i,i b. but two forts of people in the
\o Id—tvra .'i aid slaves. If all gooc
iir.n were riiibarked in the fame cause, we
1 m d ii >t be w nting for a more fictlfn.
i'io: tV n m V-if to preserve the fliip ol
'» >; tne 1 <Us and quUkfauds of de
. policy Let there be occalion.asyou
■ -re is for men of principle, wif
' i d abilities to serve in the importanl
'o - o; l-.-jiflation. But « here are they tc
be found ? How are they to he known r
Where have they diftingu'flied themft-lvesi
Wary experience a.d trials tell tis thai
r he fate of a whole people mutt he rilkei
r>elore they can have a decided charaiiter.
Rome never saw but one Regulus, one h a
biu , one CamillU', and one Sc.pio ; but
ii e groaned for many centuries under the
tyranny of herCefars. — Apropos I ob
serve a flaming firebrand to the tail of some
fox ill your city, and the press is chosen a:
the coinbuftible to scatter it among the
.rain and hay of the farmers. But yov
may reft lati fled, that such kind of reason
ingas' 1 ' afriewd 10 improvements, . ha'
made use of, will never convince thr fluh
l orn yeoiuenry of true republican princi
ple:,. that ..rbitrary laws, exclulive char
er.s, and oppreflive monopolies, are an im
provement in this or any other well regu
lated government. 1 hose laws which
promote and enconrape dillinctions among
c'tizens in a republic, haveevei been found
obnoxious to the people ; and history shew;
us a varietv of injtanccs in which the anti
dote has overpowered the poison. Conlider
the admi.nitration and tragical end of Ue
Wiit, Grand Penlioner of Holland. That
instance ought to caution our demagogues
not to over-rate the importance of wealth
and popularity, under the dominion of a
people, jealous of their equality, rights and
R- S-
Extra's of a letter from Trent or, June 3.
44 Perilling Gen. Dumourier'i letter to
tlie French nation, arid comparing "it with
;hat of Dottor Duche to Gen. Walhington
(dated Philadelphia, Oct. 8, 1.777*) I wa *
llruck with the remarkable fimiiarity ot
sentiment and language. Compare the fol
lowing extra# from the Rev. do£tor's let
ter with part of DumonrierV and you v ill
he convinced that the language ot treason
and fedicion is always the fame."— 44 After
this view of the Congress (having previ
ously called them the dregs of America)
turn to the army. The whole world knows
that its only exigence depends upon youij
that your death or captivity disperses it in
a moment, and that there is not a man on
that fide of the question in capa
ble of succeeding you.—As to the army it
felf, what have you to expect from them ?
Have they not frequently abandoned you
yourfelf in the hour of extremity ? Can
you have the least confidence in a set of un
disciplined men and officers, many of whom
have been taken from the lowest of the
people, without principle, without cou
rage; take away them who surround your
perfun, how very few are there you can ail.
to fit at your table !"
A London paper of April 15, mentions
the great fnccefs of the French cruisers in
the Mediterranean. Among others, eleven
fail of rich Englifli merchant veflels had
been carried into Marseilles at one cap
ture, the tatter end of March.
Englijh papers fav, that Gen. CuHinehad
evacuated Mentz, and was rapidly retreat
ing into FranM. Other accounts, howe
ver, contradict this, and alien the French
are in fucli force at Mentz, as to defy the
ntmoft powers of the despotic forces for
kt fix months."
An Englilii paper of April 17, mention?
the Austrian troops being within a few
hours march of Dunkirk ; and that the
French had evacuated the place.
Orteaccount from Gen. Cuitine's army,
f. fief that he had ordered back all the sup
plies of ammunition and provision toAl
faie. That Mentz was blockaded by
3 2 coo of the combined armies, and th.it
82,1*60 more piefl'ed hard upon him—That
ii was not in his power to oppose more than
50,000, & that he h .d reqUested a fucceffbr.
Communicationsfrom Corref pondents.
I thirk it is of iome importauce to the
Freemen of the United States, to have the
principle developed upon which two volun
teers on bo rd the privateer Citizen Genet,
were arrefled. : —If there was a laiv ol
the United States forbidding the citizens
of America from entering into foreign ser
vice., the arrest was legal ; but ii they
u ere apprehended on the flrength of the
proclamation, the freemen of this country
have degenerated into lulj \!< instead ot
being exalted into citizens. Have procla
mations the t>f la-w in this cvui try ■
Thisis a important qoeOion, for accord
ing to their validity 1!..iil we or fl ail w t not
need a leg flaltire. If proclamations are
to-haveth-? efftft of laws, better . t once,
convert Congrets into a'l ancient French
parliament for regtftering edicts, and let
us net be deHidul by i.ppearatices.—Pre
cedent i or Wi iitir'g for this mirpofe ; for
the king <>■.' the Learned government oi
Gre.lt Biit. i ,h is already afforded one bv
forbidding his Jubjetis from entering the
French service on pain of death. France
iv, at p. efent, the enemy of Great-Britain,
but were they friends, had France contri
buted to the freedom of Greats Britain, did
1 er r olitical happiness owe its cftablilh
ment to France, would the have if
fijed a proclamation to this effrtt Corrupt
as he is, he would scarcely have carried
his degeneracy to such a length.
This process again ft two sailors, who
have become French citizens by entering
into the service of Franee, by the executive
authority of the United States, is a fubjefl
of too much magnitude to pass by unno
ticed. It appears to involve a queltion
of t'.e firlt magnitude to Americans,
and that is, iv net her they are J'ubjttis
of the United States, or citizens? I
1 hope this bitfinefs will be explained ; and
as I wish for information, 1 will suspend
any further remarks on the fubjeik.
June 3, 1793-
Through your paper, Mr. Freneati, I
beg leave to aik—ilk. Are the poilsw hich
the Britilh lie-id within the territory of the
United States, at the cond ulion of the late
unnatural and bloody war, given up agree
jbly to treaty ? 2d. If not, what is the
reason ? 3d. Has any demand thereoi
ever been made ? 4th. Whose duty is it.
whether of the Legitlative or the Execu
tive of the Union, to demand the ctfiicm of
thole posts? sth. Is it the interest of the
United States tnat they be given up? If so.
I alk, is it not highly criminal in that in
dividual, or body, whose duty it »a to in
iilk 011 a compliance with the treaty, to
have deferred it to this time ?
The public are entitled to fatisfactory
answers. They will not be bamboozled.
This is not a lit foil for chicane or cov.rt
intrigue.
Of all the adronomers, Mr. Herfchrll
has been most fuccef»ful in bringing us to
an intimate acquaintance with our atten
dant planet, the Moon. He has totally
exploded the old opinion of there being no
atiiiofphere around her, h topfequently no
air, by his difcoverv of three bmrningroown-
tains, or volcanoes,on different p*rts of the
Moon's iurface, which could not exiit
without air. indeed, lam convinced that
an atmofpere more or less dense, is an in
separable appendage to all the opakebodies
of the nniverfe. Some of his mod recent
discoveries are mentioned in a late Daily
Paper, As to the large edifice, of the size
of St. Paul's, the less that is said about
it the better. I lufpett that it is rather
loine promontory, or broken cliff of im
inenfefize, which Mr. Herfchell has mis
taken for a building. Unfortunately tor
the curious, it is the grand imperfe£lion of
the telescope, that in proportion as it mag
nifies, it darkens. Hence the improbabi
lity that the inhabitants of the moon will
ever be difcoverabk; by means of glasses.
It has a long time been my opinion, that
the luminous portions of the moon's fur
face are seas, and the dark parts land;
and, to the lunarians, the seas and lands of
this earth, no doubt, exhibit an appear
ance greatly iimilitr. A man Handing on a
hill in a dear day, In view of the ocean,
ivill at once observe by carting his eye on
:he two elements of earth and water, that
:he latter rtflectJ the light much more
Irongly than the former, and fumething in
:he manner of a polished mirrour.—lf the
moon isno other than an atterdant, or fer
yant, of the earth ; if we are the parlour
Si she the kitchen,as all astro lomers agree.
I do not much regret the imperfeilion of
:elefcopes in not affording a more exact
knowledge of her interna! ceconomy. If
his earth, which is thirteen times larger.
*nd superior in every refpeft, exhibits fucli
wretched scenes of blood, misery, and de
flation, as we daily fee or hear of, the
moon, being no other than her kitchen, it
jy fair inference a world of w.ir and ven
geance, without the !■ all interval of paci
'ication, & the meni is that inhabit her are
indoubtedly a set of blackguards.
Lately died, (or more properly was kil
ed) at his feat in Anfon county. Nor:h Ca
olina, the Hon. S«mvel Spencer, L.
L. D. and one of the judges of the fnpreme
.ourl of that (late.-—" Judge Spencer's
lealth had been declining (f.ys the N. Ca
olina State Gazeite)for about two years,
nit he performed the lalt circuit three
lionths liiice, and We understand intended
o have Jelt hom<- in a few days for T'den
-011, where the superior court is now lie—
ing, hail it not been for the following un
rortunate accident, which it is thought haf
ened his death : —He was fitting in his pi
izza with a red cap on his head, when a
large ccck turkey palling, (he judge being
leepy, began to nod, when the turkey mif
caking the nodding of the red cap for a
;hallenge, made so violent and unexpected
in attack on his honour, that he threw liinx
out of hit chair on the floor, and before he
.oulil get any afliilance, so beat and bruised
i>in, that he died within a few days alter."
In this degenerate age
YVhnt hods of knaves engage !«—
Do all they can
To fetter man.
Dreading lie si ould be free !
Leagu'd with the scoundrel pack
tven turkey-cocks attack
The c A J> of Liberty.
PROBATIONARY ODES-i.
[Continued from cur
ODE 11. t
TO ATLAS.
JofcAT&AN turn'd fptcutatcr, in behalf of the
whole corps addieflcih their great btrteJuSibf
and patron,
Ingieditur loio, et taput inter nubi!» condlr."
Vir S >
nunquam dimoveas !
voo, great Atlas ! prop the ftat*
* ' Nor totter underneath a weight,
That would a giant crulh j
Let p>gmy Vtights in Congress-hall
Set jparrttv- traps to work your fall.
Regard them Aot a rulh !
A lion should a fpar.iel bay
The kirg of bealts would keep his way
Nor heed the babler's throat :
Then deig-n Hot, Atlas, to look dowa
Or pum/h 'tvitb a fmgle frown
The anf ry l'nailer's vote.
Whilst on your paper 11 rone you fit
VVi:h foiid gild beneath jour feet x i
Fear not a regicide t
v our faithful f anizarirs all
-.ball mutter thick in Corgrefs-hall
To guard their leader 'slide.
Co en ! great Ck if f. to make us all!
Mor horn yout [urhhiers calf the ba 11^
Led we, Ii should drop.
A-ho on a golden pippen prey y
l ill hiipl/ on fume ftorni) day
'Tis Hi a ken from the top.
CARD.
FLIJAH RUSSF.L, cf CoNcbRD (New
Haniplhire,) Printer, presents his compii->
ments to the printeis of newfpapert in the
United States —and will thank them to for
ward him their papers, in return for which
he v ill regularly fend them his—N,
Please to write on the paper without en
ilofmg it under cover.
Died,- on the 28th of May, Mrs M\rV
House, an old and refpe£tablw inhabitant
«f tiiis city, ajjtd 62 ycam*NEW O D E—
To a popular tune.
GOD save the rights of man !
Give us a heart to (can
Biefiings so dear !
Let them be spread around
Wherever man is found,
And with the welcome lonnd
Rayidi his ear i
Let us with Fiance agree
And bid the world be free,
While tyrants fall
Let the rude savage hod
Of their vast numbers boast —
Freedom's almighty trust
Laughs at them all !
Tho' hods of Haves confp're
To quench fair Gallia's fire
Still fliall they fail ;
Tho' traitors round her rife
Leagn'd with her enemies,
To war each patriot flies,
And will prevail !
No more is valour's flame
Devoted to a name ;
Taught to adore—
Soldiers of liberty
Disdain to bow the knee }
But teach Equality
To every (hore.
The world at last will join
To aid thy great design,
Dear liberty !
To Ruflia's frozen lands
The generous flame expands—
On Asia's burning sands
Shall man be free.
In this our western world,
Be freedom's flag uufurl'd
Through all ou' ft,ores !
May no deftruftive b'aft
Our (Lies with clouds o'ercaft ;
May freedom's fabric last
While time endures !
If e'er hrr cause should fail,
Ambition's fiends aflai ,
Slaves to a throne—
May no proud despot daunt
■Should he his ilandard plant,
Freedom will never want
Her WASHINGTON!
June I, 1793.
PHILADELPHIA,
June 5.
" THE writers opposed to the French,
are fond of setting up a man of Jiraw, jufl
to have the fatisfaftion of beating bin:
down. They exclaim aganft involving
curfelves in the present quarrels of Eu
rope. No man has ever appeared to urgs
this } no American wifhesto be concerned
in the contest ; but the only question is.
whether <we are obligated to comply with tin
terms oj a sacred treaty ? The honor and
pledged faith of the States were violently
contended for, in discharging our public
debt, and the fund-ng fyflem was eflablifh
ed on these principles. But our engage
ments bv a solemn treaty, (which are the
great basis of national honor and security)
are held up by these writers, as a fubjedt ol
a trifling nature ; as not worthy our atten
tion, and ou ( ,ht to be set aside by fophijlry.
or any other artifice we can devise. Out
treaty, fay they, is with " His Chrijliat
Majejly," but now the government is
changed, we are not bound to comply with
it- How would this reasoning have suited
these persons as it related to the public
debt. It might have been allied, whether
our engagements were with the army ; and
lince they had alienated their property,
and fold their notes at 2/6 in the pound,
whether we were bound to discharge them
at 20/"? Such an interrogatory, would
hsve been anathematized, as it refpe&ed
the funding system j anjl if it had prevail
ed, thousands who are now wrapt up in
their paper certificates, and bank scripts,
would have remained in their original state
of obfeurity.
All writers on governmeut, hold up the
facrednefs of treaties—that they are to bi.
faithfully observed. Those writers there
fore, that are for breaking our treaty with
France, and for giving equal terms to Eng.
land, do not understand the ties which bind
nations, who have by treaty become allies.
England has no claim upon us, but France
has ; if we should at this moment prove
perfidious to the latter, we may place our
selves in a very disagreeable filiation
Should we hesitate to eomply with our
treaty, France may so far resent it, as to
declare war against us. In this cafe, what
would become of our trade ? The whole
commerce we now carry on to any advan
tage ,is with the French : The Engli/h have
ever shewn a determfnation to injure us in
every part of our trade : France, on the
contrary, has opened her ports both in
Europe and the Wejl-Indies. The English
embarrass us in ail our connexions with
them, while the French art: pursuing the
mod liberal measures to facilitate our com
mercial negotiations. Our importations
from England, confiding of gew-gaws, to
pamper our follies, are dedru&ive to the
interellof this country: It' atradethat will
finally ruin U3, and in time render the
greatest part of those who are concerned
in it vaflals to a set of Britiih rc/idents who
reside among us, merely to overjee the con
dud of their customers, and to receive
their money as fad as they colledt it in
th :ir stores and ftiops.
Upon the whole, our duty is to rdhere
to our treaty, and to give it a fair, candid
condru£tion ; not attempt to nullify it by
!rifling fubtcr?~ug-es, or pettyfogging sophis
try. We wish to live in peace with all na
tions, and the moil effectual method to se
cure our tranquility, is to ast ftriftly on
the principles of national honor No civil
ized nr.tion can dejtre us to break the so
lemn obligation of a treaty, neither is it
i xpedted that France will require any thing
unr afonab/e to draw us into the p.efent
war. The generosity of that nation, it is
probable, will permit lis to continue in
drift neutrality, and we have move to hope
from theirfriendly difpofuion, than from tlie
fnphi/lry and aiufe of writers who are w,fil
ing to explain away the obligations of our
treaty." llrid. Chron ]
\\ e are informed that in consequence
of initru£tions from the executive of the
United States, to the Attorney for the
di drift of Pennsylvania, prosecutions have
been inllituted against John Singleterry,
and Gideon Henfield, charged w.'.h vio
lating their duty as citizens of the United
States, in entering on board the armed
schooner Genet, in the service of France,
and, with others on board the said fchoo
ner, capturing feverat v.fTels, the property,
and otherwise annoying the trade nd
commerce of the said fu jests, contrary to
the laws of nations and treaty of peace sub;
lifting between the United States and his
said Britannic Majesty.
The above named persons have b'-en
committed to the jail of the county of
Philadelphia, to take their trials at the next
pircuit Court of the United States.
Singleterry is a native of Charleston,
Sontl -Carolina, and lias a familv at Beau
fort, North-Carolina; Henfield was born
it Salem, in MdiTachufetts.
JUST PUBLISHED,
[ Price one quarter of a dollar J
THE
laws
OF THE
UNITED STATES,
Palled at the lad Seflion of Congress, which
complete vol. 11.
Publi/hcd by Authority.
A Complete INDEX is added for the volume
Philadelphia—Printed by Childs £? Swain e •
Printers of the Laws of the United States; and
old by them at their Office No 209, Market-
Itreet: also by the principal Booksellers, where
>1. I. is to be had.
TO BE RENTED,
And poffrflion given in July next.
A Merchant MILL,
Also, a COUNTRY and a SAW MILL,
either separately or together, with all the
onveniencies thereunto belonging, confiding of a
! 'Od framed dwelling house, (tore house, granary,
-oopers /hop, (tables, &c. all in perfett good or
ler and almost new, situate in a fine wheat coun
ry, on a constant and plentiful stream of water,
it the head of a navigable creek,called Miflipilion,
rom whence the fnallops transport flour to Phila
• elphia without any trouble to the miller, and ad
fining a flourilhing village that always affords a
.erv leady sale for the offal of the merchant mill
!nd an abundance of custom to the country an ,
law mills. Those advantages render these mifld
ntuor to none in this country; and the situation s
for a ftere is equal to any in the (late. The
merchant mill is three (lories high with two pair
It burr stones, double gear'd, a lolling fcreene and
linn that cleans wheat into both hoppers, two
bolting chests, and a machine for hoifling that goes
bv water. This mill manufadlures principally
u per fine flour, that is much edecmed as such in
Philadelphia. For terms apply to Robert Lewis
and Co. merchants in Philadelphia, or the lub-
Icribers near the premises.
ELIZABETH TKORNE,
PETER CAVERLY.
Milford, Kent County, Stats 0/ Delaware
May. 1, 1793• 2a vvtf
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
BY MATHEW CAREY
No. 118, Market-Street,
Embelli/hed with a MAP of the present SEA!
OF WAR,
No. I, Of a NEW SYSTEM OF MODERN
GEOGRAPHY.
OR, A GEOGRAPHICAL, HISTORICAL
AND COMMERCIAL GRAMMAR;
And present State of the Several
KINGDOMS OF THE WORLD.
CONTAINING
I. The figures, motions, and distances of the pla.
nets, according to the Newtonian system anc
the lateit observations.
11. A general view of the earth cotfidered as a
pianet j with several ufeful geographical deli
n.lions and problems.
111. The grand divisions of the globe into land
and wa er, continents and islands.
IV* The situation and extent of erapires, king
doms, ftaces, provinces, and colonies.
V. 1 heir climates, air, foil, vegetable producti
ons, metals, minerals, natural curicfities, seas,
rivers, bays, capes, promontories, and lakes.
VI. Ihe biros and bealls peculiar to each country.
VII. Observations on the changes that have been
any where observed upon the face of nature
f»nce / the tnoft early periods of history.
VIII. Ihe history and origin of nations ; their
forms of government, religion, laws, revenues,
taxes, naval and military strength.
jX. The genius, mauncrs, cuftoms> and habits
of the people.
X. Their language, learning, arts, sciences, ma
nufaCtuies, and commerce.
XI. The chief cities, structures, ruins, and ar
tificial curiosities.
XII. The longitude, latitude, bearingj, and dis
tances of the principal places from Philadelphia.
TO WHICH ARE VDDED.
I. A Geographical Index, with the names, and
places a Ipbabetically arranged.
11. A laole of the Coins of all Nations, and theii
value in English Money.
111. A Chronological 'Table of remarkable events,
from the Creation to the present Time,
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, F.fq.
ThejAitiono nical Pait by James Fergufon,F.RS.
To which ha-vt been added,
f tie late Diicoveries of Dr. Her 1c he 1, and otlici
eminent Aftrcnomers.
The firjl American edition, ccrrc-d-ed, iwfrstted
and greatly enlarged.
The publilher of this work, thankful for the pit.
rouge with which he has been fconored, fub
tr.iis die present number to the infpc&ion o;
Ins feliow-citizens, and lays before them
1 he terms ot publication .
I. This geography (hall bj publifliej in forty,
eight weekly numbers, each containing twen
ty-tour pages of letter press.
il. in the course of the publication will be de.
livered the following »aps :
:• The world, j. Europe. 3. Sweden, Den
mark, Norway, and Finland. 4. Russia. 5.
Scotland. 6. England and Wales. 7. I.clanu,
S. France. 9. Seven United Provinces.' 10. Au
finan and French Netherlands. 11. German.
11. Switzerland. ,3. Poland. ,4. an.
I ortugal. 15. Italy. ,6. Turkey in Europe.
17- Asia. 18. China. 19. Hindoltan. 20. As.
;ca. 21. North Araenca. 22. Britidi Ame.
rica. 2;. Wefl-lodies. 24. South America
25. Plamiphere of the earth. *26. Countnei
: ound tke north pole. *27. Difcover.es mad,
by Captains Cooke and Clerke. » 2 8. New.
Hampihire. *29. Mafl"achufett«. » 3 c. Cm.
nedticuf. *31. Rhoae llland. '32. Verm. n-.
*33. New-York. * 34. New-Jerfev. *35
Pennsylvania and Delaware. .36. Maryland
*37. Virginia. *38. North-Carolina. *39.
5 Jth-Carolina. *40. Georgia. *41. The
■Sphere. '42. The Copernican system.
N. B. All the maps marked with liars are
added to this edition, exclusive of those in the
last London edition.
That no disappointment mav arise from sub
fenbers expecting what the publiflier neither pro.
mrfes nor is able to perform, he gives this ear'*
6 explicit notice, that to some of the States it wii
beimpoflible for him t« give maps'fully atcuiaete.
no late surveys having been made ; and it is har.i!
ly necefiary to obl'erve, that it falls not withn.
nis plan to go to the expense of surveys. Eot ir
every instance, he will avail himfelf of the btji
materials extant-, and I'uch correflions and addi.
tions as his utmost exertions can piocure, fiiali
b>- made.
111. The geography of ,he United Stat<> is un
dertaken by gentlemen of literary abilities, who
have engaged to give a more foil and fatisfado
ry account of it than any ever published. It
will extend to 250 or 300 pages, although in
the British edition, and even in that of 1792,
it makes only aboat 3C»
IV. Shou\d the work exceed forty-eight num
b-rs > the furplua will be delivered gratii to the
1 übferibers.
V. The price of each number will be a quartci
doliar, to be paid on delivery.
VI. Such fubferi'oers as do not choose to receive
the work in numbers, are to pay tlxree dollars
at tne time ot fubferibing.
The printer, anxious to render this work as
jerfeft as the nature of it will allow, most ear
leftly request?, that such gentlemen, throughout
he United States, as have it in their power, wHI
urnidi him with documents for cone&ing the
>ast errors in the geography of America, and for
urnirtiing a more complete system of geography
:han has yet appeared.
Th« title page, lift of fubfcrlber'a names, with
he account of the Newtonian system, &c, &c.
"ill be given in tne 47th and 48th number?.
N. L. Ihe fubferibers, and the public in ge
neral are requested to consider the following very
Tiaterial circumstance——The London quarto edi
ion is fold here, for fiiteen dollars, although it
.ontains only 25 maps and plates, and of the geo
graphy of the United States, as has been observed
ibove, only about 30 pages—whereas, Caie\'s
:dition will contain 42 mrps and plates, and have
wo hundred pages of letter picfs more. And it
need not be observed, tTiat the seventeen maps to
be added, are of more importance co Americans
by far, than the 2.5 London ones. The observa
tion will apply with equal force to the letter press
additions.
The maps will be published in such order of
fucceliion as they are engraveo, and dire&ions will
be printed for the proper manner of placing them
by the bookbinder.
May 22.
READING HOWELL,
To the citizens of Pcnnfylvania.
HE has now (he pit-sure ot prejenring nat
only to them but to the world at large
Ins ivlap, the conllant labour of fix years, during
which time he exerted his abilities/ sparing nei.
thet money nor labour in bringing it to its prc
fent perfection. Not having the assistance of a
preceding map founded on authentic docuroen:
lie was obliged to compile it from detached furl
ve>s collected from the one to the other extreme
jt the State at t very heavy expence. yet fun
iry small parts of the map remain blank for
>wnt of materials, which he completing
is they can be piocured. He prdames t1,..t .',e
woik is as correfi, if not more so, for the ..me
rxtentof country, than any map heretofore pro.
Juced, even in the oldelt countries; this 1. we
►er he is willing to (übmit to their irr srtiafc
judgment ; well knowing that the nature of the
Jvoik does i ot not admit of abfolote perfection.
What errors it mav contain he wiftes to be in
'ormed ot t in order fjr their Correction on the
plates.
He has also for sale his small maps of Penn
f) Ivania to wliith he has lately added the county
lines, surveyors diftritfs as they ere at pralent,
post road to the Gencfee country, &c. See.
M 4psof the State of Jersey done lince die re
t'o'ution.
Maps of the world in sets, of the best imprefli
on* of the city of London, &c. &c.
Which maps, as well as well as many others he
pifts on linnen $ colours the refyedtive divisions,
varnishes, and mounts on rollers or frames, and
cuts and folds them for pocket carriage in a Hilt
equally elegant, if not exceeding those done in
London jot which he has fpecimess.
Noith fifth ftieei No. 88.
3 C February the ift* 1793.
I Have claims to about two hundred aai
fifty thoufanO acres of LAND in the state of
Kenruckey, in different parts of that country*
lorne of which i know to be equal to any j alt
of wheh J an", inclined to dispose of, either by
<*ntire Tale, or by admitting one, or two partners,
to whom the agency on the whole will be com
mitted.
One fourth of thcr contra£V will be required ia
hand, either in cafli, merchandise, or such afTets
as ma\ be converted to active use, the residue
may be apportioned in convenient inftalraents.
The purchasers to give security, on the land,
ir otherwa\s,as suits them.
Knowing that thece is a prejudice against the
itles of tend in that state, which is more general
than just, lam willing to stipulate in the con-
Craft, that a difcou-nrj or deduction, (hall be
nadr, where any land may be loft, by reason ef a
lefeflive title.
Any person inclining to such a purchase, isTe
quefted to write to me by post, in answer to
whom, more particular information will be given.
11 E NRT BANKS.
Richmond March 20, 1793* 2a wtf
Harrijbt;rgb Mail Stage.
STARTS every Vvednefday from Mr. Henry
Epply's in race ftieet, between third aai
rouitl) streets, and arrives at Harrifburgh on the
Saturday morning following— Starts from Mr,
Crabb's, innkeeper, Harrifburgh, on Monday
ami arrives on Wednesday at Philadelphia.—
N. B. 1 he Reading stage starts from Reading,
at John Witman's, innkeeper, on Monday, and
arrives at Philadelphia on Tuesday morning-
Then starts from Philadelphia on Friday morn
ing at 4 o'clock, 2nd arrives at Reading on Sa
turday morning. The greatest care and attenti
on fha:l be paid by the publics* humble servant.
WILLIAM COLEMAN.
N. P. A Pght stage upon springs, with two
hoirfes, or wiibout Loifes, with complete geers,
may be had It any moments' warning, for the
accommodation of ladies and gentlemen, by ap
plying to the above named Wm. Coleman, living
n the borough of Reading.
JUST PITB LI SHE D,
And to be fold at the refpe&ive Book Stores of
JoJcpb Crukjhank and Thomas Dobfon, and may
be had as the Printing effice, No. 2CQ, Mar
ket-Street. [Price one eighth of a dollar. ]
Addrefled to tlre Yeomanry of the
L E T T E R S,
United States:
Containing fofne Qbfervations oil Funding
and Dtitfk Syflems:
BY an AMERICAN FARMER.
JUST PUBLISHED, W
And to be faJd by TitoMAs Dobson, Wil,
ham Yovng, Robert Campbell,
Meiirs. Rice and Co. and John M--
Culloc-h, No. 1. North Third-street,
a N EXAMINATION of the late pro
ceedings in Congress refpe&ing the
official coinluft of the Secretary of the
Treafiiry ; with Qbfervations, &c. on the
application of loan? from Holland, negoci
ifed under the acts of the 4th and 12th ef
Auguit 1790 —Tile price of the above
pamphlet is three iixteenths of a dollar, or
is 4d. 1-2. April 24. 2awtf
F P. INTED BY
<2 HI LD S and SWAINL
AT TBEIK OFFICE N0.209, HIOH-STR E*E T p
NEAR FIFTH-STRUT,
'UlL.iDEl.rjlHi