Numb. 42 of Vol. ll.]
Debate on the Official Conduct of the Se
cretary of the Treasury, (continued
from our last.)
FiudAy, March i.
Mr. Madison —{in continuation.)
The want of any apparent authority from
the Prelident had led fever.il gentlemen to
infill on presumed authorities, fuperfe'ding
the inftruetior.s joined with the conuniilu.n
to the Secretary : But here 3g;;i 11 the fair
inference was to be reversed- A commu
nication of the authorities given by the
President to the Secretary as to the appli
cation of the foreign loans, h id been ex
pressly requeued by the vote of the house : It
was not to be supposed that the Secretary, if
lie had received further authorities or in
ftru£tions would havefail.edtoproducethem
or to refer to them, in the jultiScation of hi;
conduG. Far less could it be presumed that
the President, if he had given any fuperfe
din~ authorities or inltruitions, would not
have caused them to be communicated tc
the houfr ; or that he would have futfe-red
a partial communication to mislead tht
house into an error, as to so important a
fait. The President was the lalt man in
the world to whom any meafuie whatever
of a deceptive tendency could be crediblj
attributed. .
Thus far (said Mr. M.) his obfervationi
had departed a; little aspoftble from the
question in its (tr'ureft fenle. t-e Ihoulc
now avail himfeli* of the opportunity af
forded by the terms of the last clause which
fuoke of drafts, generally to take a more
particular notice o! thpfe recently made, it
doing which he conlidered himfelt fafe
within the rules of the house, which ivert
so rigoronfly enforced aga'mit the affirma
tive fide of the que(tio:i.
The whole amount of the foreign loan:
transferred directly or indirectly to the U
nhed Stated, npp-artd from the vera
statements to be about tnree millions o
dollars.
The amount of the d;reit dratts \va:
2,304,769 dollars 13 cents 1 .
Ot the draft; made since the 16th of A
pril 1*92 and fold by t ie ban»v, or payable
into it, b-'fore the fir(t of April nest, a
mount to 1,220.476 dollars. Qt this fun
5 to,ooo dollars have been diawn in thi
course of theprefent fLllion ot Co lgrefs.
With refpeft to the times and the a,noun
of theft draughts, hitherto absolutely un
known to the legislature, because the ac
count of them had remained in the books o
the bank without ever appesring in th<
books of the treasurer, Mr. M- co.ifefiet
that he had found no explanation-, that t<
him were fatisfaftory. He had
through all the reports and all the commu
nications before the house, without disco.
vering either that they had been made bi
the authority or with the knowledge of the
President ; or had been required for, 01
applied to the purchafc of the public debt
or had been ever communicated to th<
trufteei of the linking fund, who had tht
direction or such purchafe3; or that the)
were the effect of any necessity that coule
juftify them.
And if there was no evident necessity foi
the proceeding, it was the more to be la
mented that whillt we were every where
fympathi.'ing with our allies, in their ardu
ous ltruggles for liberty, and echb.ng fron
every part ot the union our congratulations
and good willies, the pecuniary succours.
so critically nccelfary to their cause, and
the molt substantial proof of the fiucerity o!
our profeffions.iiiouUl befilently withdrawn
across the Atlantic, from the object for
which they were intended ; succours, too,
which Were not merely a tribute of grati
tude, of generosity, or of benevolent zeal
for the triumph of liberty ; but a debt
moreover of Itrict and positive obligation,
lor value acknowledged and received. In
contemplating the fubjeft m this point o,'
view, lie felt a pain which he could not ea
sily etprifs ; and to which he persuaded
» liimlelf, the breast of rio other member
co 1 1M be a flranger.
Laying alide. however, all these unfa
vourable considerations, the important
queition (till remained, why the legislature
had been uninformed of the monies so un
expectedly drawn into the bank, and to so
very great an amount If the drafts had
received every requisite fanfticn ; if they
had been produced by the mod juftiftable
tauf.s, the exillence of 1,220,476 dollars,
in a lituation so very different from what
had been contemplated, was a fact, which
the reprefentntives of the people had a
l ight to know ; v. hich U was important to
them, and their conftititents, that they
By P. FREN EA U : Publificd Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
should know ; and which it was the imhf
penfible duty of tiie officer charged with it,
to have nude known.
This omission was the more remarkable,
when conlidered in relation to the measure
above mentioned, of paying otFatonce the
whole sum of 2,000,000 dollars, pay;*ble to
the bank by instalments in ten years. A
bill to this purpose had been introduced,
and was on its pafTage. The object of it
had been patronized liy .a report of the Se
cretary not long lince made. In o:ie of
his lalf reports, he expref>ly llates among
the inducements to fnch extensive drafts of
money from Europe, that they were made
" with an eye to placing within the reach
of the legislature" the means requisite for
this ohj-'ct- Was it not extraordinary ;
was it not unaccountable, that so impor
tant h meaftire should be recommended,
and be actually introduced, and that mo
ney otherwise appropriated in Europe,
fliould be transferred to this country and
depolited in the bank, in order that it
might be within the reach of being applied
by the legislature to that ineafure : and
yet that no dilclofure should be made tc
the of the fa t, that the money
was so drawn and lay at the bank withii
their reach to be applied.
If any thing could heighten afionifhnient
on this occafiQ'i, it mult be the reafo.i as
signed by the Secretary for an obfeurity
that mighc have hung over our finance —
■' that till the lalj refutations, no call had
seen made on the department, which ren
dered it proper to exhibit a general view of
the public monies and funds, or to (hew the
imoiint and situation of such as were un
applied." Mr. M would not di vide that
:he legislature was free from blame, in not
iiiiug more full and efficacious means of
obtaining such informations, as would have
removed all obfeurity ' but whatever de
cree of blame might fall on them, it never
:onld be admitted, that their calls 011 the
department had furnifhed no proper occafi
m for exhibiting a full view of the pnbiic
fiances. He referred generally to the various
"efoiutions, which, without the lead force of
:onftru£ti<vi, would have extended to cve
■y proper article of information. He re
minded the committee of the,latitude ofre
?orts under certain orders of the house ;
and asked whether less ireedom of con
(tru£tion was to be allowed when inform. 1
tion was to be given, than when power or
tliferetion was to be cxercifed ? But inde
pendently of this view of the matter, Mr.
M. held it to be clear and palpable, that
the very situation of the money afforded an
occafio.i which rendered it proper, that
the house should. be informed of it. If a
liberty could be taken, of removing money
from Europe, where it flood appropriated
by law, to this country, where there was
no legal object that required it, and with
an eye, as was stated, to an object to which
no money was applicable, without the au
thority of the legislature, how could it pof
iibly be supposed improper to take the fur
ther liberty of communicating what was
done to the legislature ?
He concluded with recurring to the par
ticular form, in which the subject preferr
ed itfelf to the committee, and repeating
that whatever quality might be attached
to .lie faefs charged, or however improper
it might be thought by fume, to proce. d in
lialte to any affirmative decision 011 them,
it appeared irreconcileable with the evi
dence which had been produced, to de
cide, by a negative vote, against the truth
of the fa£ts.
Substance of the observations mad? by ?>lr.
W. Smith, 011 the following refolulion,
viz.
Resolved. That the Secretary of the
Treafuryhas omitted to discharge an ef
feutial duty of"his office, in failing to give
Congress official information in due time,
of the piunies drawn by him from Europe
into the United States; which drawing
commenced in December i;<;o. and conti
nued till January 1 "93 ; and of the causes
of making such drafts.
Mr. Smith said, that after the vote which
had just prevailed by so conlider: ble a ma
jority on the preceding refutations, the
committee could not with any propriety
criminate the Secretary for failing to give
the information alluded to —because by
that vote it had been eftablilhed that the
Secretary had only tiffed under the autho :
rity of the President, and conformable to
his inftruftipns ; if there had been any o
mission to communicate information to
Congress, that omillion was surely not
chargeable toihe Secretary. But it had
already been clearly llrewii, by documents
SATURDAY, March 23, 1793.
in the possession of the house, that the ne
cefl'iry information had been communica
ted. The Treasurer's account', which had
been from time to time Laid before the
house, exhibited the amount of monies pro
ceeding from the file of bills, and the Se
creta, A v report of February 1791, con
veyed full information of the drawing. It
wa« wis 3 Turn of about 6gq*coo
dollars, the proceeds of bills which, as had
been remarked by a gentleman (Mr. Ma
dison) did 110 c appear In the Treasurer's
account; but this was owing to the sales
i)f thte biJU by the bank not having been
closed at the time the last quarterly ac
count was rendered, and conf'equently that
fuin could not appear in the Treasurer's
account.
Mr. Madison said he had not meant to
:>lame the Trealurer.
Mr. Smith proceeded. The gentleman
'lowevjT had attributed mifcondu£t to the
Secretary, for withholding information of
:iie amount of monies in tile Treasury, ac
:ruing from foreign loans, when dire&cd
jy the house the iyth,of January 1-92, to
•eport wheth.r the exifling revenues were
idequate to iV.ce the additional expence cf
:he Indian war". Mr. Smith could not for
jear expretfing great surprise at this remark
if the genrhniiii from Virginia (Mr. Ma
li fori) when he recollected what had been
I nil before said by the fame ger.tfemr.il in
upport of the former refohltion. The
;entlefhan 0.1 that occnlion, iu his attempt
:o disprove the right of the Secretary, ex
■>ffici to superintend the monies derived
■ oni the foreign loans, had endeavoured
o ertablifh a nice diftiaction between the
Ordinary internal revenues of the country,
i:-.d tile resources rcfuliing from foreign
oan.-. The law, conlfituting the treasury
Jepartment, he had iV.d; gave the Secreta
ry power only over the revenues, which
en&r.tcei! o :iy the ordinary resources;,
Areas, loans \tefe dolin. t thirds, the
managiMuent and difpof.d of which was
fpetully entrusted by law to the su
preme magistrate, and in relation to
which the Secretary could exerciie no au
thority whatever that was rot derived
from the President. The gentleman now
argued that the Secretary was blatneable
iu not giving information of the Hate of
these extraordinary resources which were
not within his department, when only call
ed upon to date th.' amount of the ordina
ry revenues, which were within his depart
ment. He left it to the gentleman .to re
concile this contradidtion, for certainly hi
doctrine was erroneous o:i the iormer oc
calion, or it mud be so now ; if the monies
obtained from foreign loans were to be
deemed the revenues of the country, then
they fell of course under th? management
of the head of the treasury department;
and it was wrong in the gentleman to im
pute mifconduft to the Secretary for cxer
cifing legal authority. If on the contrary,
those monies were viewed as an extra re
fcuirce, and not within the pnrvi-.w of the
Secretary's functions, then it was wrong to
ceiifure him for not communic: ting a liate
of those monies when required only to re
port the ordinary revenues.
Without admitting the soundness of the
dioi;k"l ion set up by the gentleman from
Virginia, Mr. Smith said that it was never
in the intention of the house, nor in the
idea of any individual member, to call for
a liate of the monies proceeding from the
foreign loans when they paiit d the order of
tile 10th -Jail. 1 79 a.
That order wasin these terms —" Order
ed, that the Secretary of the Treasury be
dire: ed to lay before this house, such in
formation with refpeel to the finances of
the United States, as will enable the legis
lature to judge whether any additional re
venue will be necellnry in consequence of
the propo'ed increase of the military eftab-
IHhment." ThU call was fully complied
with, for the Secretary laid before the
house an cftimatc of the internal revenues,
which unqnefHonably were the only reve
nues in contemplation of the house at the
time, and the house beingfarisfied that they
were incompetent, laid additional duties.
The house knew as w ell as'the Secreta
ry that loans had been made ynd that mo
nies hail under them been drawn into this
country, bet they knew that those mollies
had bee lfpeclaily appropriated to the linlc
ingfnnd; and it never entered into the
ideas of any member to divert them from
that beneficial obje£lr, in ordt'r to apply
them to the current service. 'TWr.s not to
be prefunwd th.it the Secretary would have
recommended such adivifion.
To impute blame to him for not com
[municat.iig the amour.t of monies drawn
[Total No. 14.6.]
from time to time, there limit have been
fonielawur order of the honfe requiring
the communication, or it nmft have been'
necellai'y to foine object depending before
the house. What law or order of t{)c houfii
could make it neccfiary ? None.—The law
authorized the loans and pfefcribid their
objects j t'le reft were mere e:;ccu:":ve fcn
!:::cfs, aad no communication war, necefi'a
iy to any lrieafure depending before tli?
house.
But though the Secretary would not
have been censurable for omitting to give
the information, the truth was thet the
Prelidem's speech of Dcc. 1790, the Se
cretary's report of Feb. 25, and tile aot of
March 3, 1791, w ere conclusive proofs that
the leg;flature knew that the proceeds of
the loans were in a 'train of being brought
to the United States, and the account; of
receipts ami expenditures prefentccf in the
iirft week of the feflion. informed the house
a large sum was drawn for, and'the Trpa
furer's quarterly account ccntained'fui ther
information on the fubjeft, all which was
prior to any call of the house for fucb in
ioriiiation. Hence ]>*r. Smith deduced,
that i: was net a fact that the Secretary had;
tailed Lo give ths information, as ftaied in'
the refolntion, and that even had he so fail,-'
ed, he would ipt h ve beep censurable for
a breach ol an cifential duty eifh's office.
It had been said by a member fror.s
Pennfylvani.ii, Mr. f indl'ey, that tiie late
liefs ol the information frpm the Secretai 7
made it inconvenient to go into an enquiry'
of his official conduit so' near the clcle of.
the fefiion.
To'this Mr. Smith replied, that hediil,
not expeSt.fuch a renin: k froih that quai -
ter el the house. If the gentleman ha.J
not been prepared for ihe enquiry, o.
thought it an improper feafi>t) to lliter up
on it, why did he fecund the motion tor,
bringi g forward the chargesJ If fufpici
6'n flSf! rolor.o- exiffcy acaifift tile :r" 1•'
ol the Secretary, why w as not inform; lion
called for at the beginning of the fefiion ?'
Wiiy was the call delayed till tiie ftffion
was within a few weeks of its terming-'
tion ?
It was admitted that the Secretary had
obeyed the order of the honfe with won
derful alacrity and promptitude ; it wf;
ndeed ft range tWt c'.:e gentleman who'
brought forward the charges won';! be the
fir it to complain, that this was not ii|ne for
their conlideration.
Mr. Smith concluded by noticing the eb
fervations of Mr. Mercer and Mr Madi
son, that the opinion of the house on the
preceding resolutions, would not chantrc
the truth of fails, and that the public
would ultimately decide whether the Se
cretary's conduit was criminal or rot ---
This, f; f id Mr. Smith, was like con,
dust of a prosecutor, v. ho having choffiu
his jurifdiition, and being nonfuitrd, w ill: -'
c<l to appeal to another tribunal. WI;.
were the resolutions brought before the
houfe?.Was it not to fupftaritiate the
truth of tJieni by a vote ? And had the pro
secution fuccecdcd, would the Secretary
have had an appeal to ;he public ? No—the
resolutions would have been lent to the
Prelident ; and the Secretary would have
been removed, diigra' ed, and ruins 1! for -
ever, without a] peal."
Mr. Ames prefaced his remarks on
the business before the committee i v
some observations on the na'ure of thft
charges brought forward. He was happy
that they were determinate, and cnrccive ]
that the defence could he crouded in
nutfliell. As to the hill charge in t!;J
refutation immediately before the commit
tee he had f en no proof in fnpport ol ic
brought forward. It is founded only on
aflertion, and le conceived that contra
alfertion vva, fufficient to meet it. No au
thptity, it was said, was given to the S.-
cretary to obta n the loan under the blend
ed authority of both aits. This is noc
one of the charges included in the resolu
tions before the committee, and then so: •
tin's is not the time to answer it. How
ever, if this were fail, nothing criminal
could, iu consequence, be imputed, and
since the purposes of both laws were car
ried into execution, there could be nu
ground for faying tlift either was violated.
He said much on the impracticability of
the line of conduct which lome gentlemen
appeared to think (liould have been follow
ed by the Secretary It was impqfiibl. tu
[.SVe la'l fr£.<]r O KF.IG N INTELLIGENCE.
LONDON, January 14. —
611 the 27th of December, Lord Gren
viiie, h'u majefty'i principal Secretary of
State, received a n 'Ee from v l. Ch.'.uvelin,
Hating his appowitnicJK, a; miniiier pleni
potentiary to the cour; of Great Britain
from the French Republic. M. Chauve
lin was in ormed by the Secretary ofState,
that as,!i:ice the iot!i of Augufi, the king
hail suspended all official communication
with France, his appointment could not
be acknowledged—To this answer the ex
ecutive power of France replied on the
7th, making fnndry explanations relative
to the conduct of the nati.wn in several
particulars, especially the opening of the
Scheldt, giving the ftrongefl a!fnranee of
a desire for peace and good underitanding
with Great flritain, and concluding in the
following emphatical words :
'• After so frank 3 declaration which
imnifelts fucli a lincere desire of peace,
his Britannic majesty's miniflers o'-:ght not
to have any doubts with regard to the in
tentions cf France. If her explanations
are yet infufficient, and if we are yet obli
ged to hear a haughty language ; ifhoftile
preparations are yet continued in the Ell
- ports, after having exhaulied every
means to preserve peace, we will prepare
for war with a sense of the justice of our
cause and of oir efforts to avoid this extre
mity. We will fight the English whom
we esteem,'- v.'itji regret tut without
i r ■"
On thefime clay (January 7) M. Chau
velin transmitted another letter to Mr.
Grenville, complaining that the king of
England had 011 the 15th of November, by
proclamation, prohibited the exportation
of grain and meal from the several British
ports, and that in consequence thereof
many veflels leg:;lly freighted and ready
to fiil for France had been detained not
withstanding the law which expresses that
the ports fnould not be shut till 15 days
after the date of the proclamation ;
that another proclamation soon suc
ceeded, which excepted the grain of fo
reign growth from the liberty of exporta
tion, in consequence of which all the ves
sels loaded with foreign grain upon ac
count nf France were arretted in the Eng
lish ports, by order of the government —
The letter concludes thus :
" Think, my lord, that in the bofont of
peace, and far from any appearance of
war. that the English government have
profited upon the good faith of the affairs
ofEurope, and the security of a friendly
and neighbouring country, in order to
draw to its ports flich commodities as it
lias flood in need of. Br.t if, at prefeut,
the fame minifler should profit upon the
fii'ft ho'tile measures, which he alone is the
author of or fiialj have provoked, to with
hold these commodities, in hopes, it may
be, that a famine might be added to the
internal agitations of France, what punilh
ment would he not deserve for such an act
of perfidy? or, what would he obtain by
the success of such an e.lterprife, but the
fhnme of having employed means, that
even in the midll of a terrible war, an
enlightened and generous nation ought to
loo'; upon with horror; an action which
had disgraced the commerce of England,
in violating the sacred asylum of its mar
kets."
An account of an ambassador from the
Pope having appeared, the following state
ment is said to be the fa£t: A person arri
ved lately in town, directed to Dr. Doug
las, the Catholic Bishop of London, en
trusted with letters from the Pope, which
Dr. Douglas was desired to present to his
Majefly's Minifler!, reqnefting the affifl
anceof this country in repelling the inten
ded invasion of Italy by tiie French. Dr.
Douglas immediately acquainted Lord
Grenville with the* circumltance ; his
Lordlliip doubting whether he was juftifi
ed in receiving an emissary or papers from
Rome, advised with Mr. Burke upon the
fubjeft, who the next day took the opinion
of an eminent counsellor of Lincoln's inn,
who informed him, " That although it
was contrary to act of Parliament to re
ceiv? any bulls or inflrumentsfrom Rome,
yet he thought that his L .rdfiiip wouldin
cur 110 danger by receiving the papers in
queflion " I 1 consequence of the opinion,
Lord Grenville informed Dr. Douglas thai
he could not fee rhe embaffador but would
receive his papers, which were according
ly lent. It is not known what, his majes
ty's mmiflers have determined 011 theiub
j?a.
The executive government of France
displays its usual coufiftency in calling 011
the United States of America to fulfil the
treaty defenfive or offenfive, entered into
by them witli Louis XVI. while his de
polition from the throne is confidcred
by that very government as a ground for
violating every treaty they had unfortu
nately ratified with the powers of Europe.
Avery little attention, however, to the af
fairs of the American states, since the last
peace, will diiiipate every idea, that they
can so far forget their bell: intereils, as to
take a part in the difientions of Europe.
Al! the advantages which could be derived
to their, from becoming parties in a war,
wo.Ud be the casual, partial and difhqnor
ablcgfin, which might result to individu
als from privateering expeditions ; and
the loss, i:i fucli a cafe, would be, the infi
nite benefits, both civil and political, which
an infant Itate must derive, in a very pre
eminent degree, from the blefiing of peace.
I iie never tailing care and comm^ndim l
influence of Mr. Washington, which have
hitherto preserved kis country from the mi
sery of tends among its people, will, w<
doubt not, be efi'eihtally exerted to favt
it alfd from the calamities of war wit!
other nations.
On Monday January 7th, Meflrs. Byrn
Keagh, and the other Roman Catholii
Deputies, had their I ait conference witl
Secretary Dundas—To every liberal mini
in England, we may be permitted to giv<
the cliearful conf>ilation,that the claims o
this great body of peoplaareto be conipli
ed with, and thus the harmony and ptac<
of Ireland is preserved.
The firft orders, sent by the adniiralt;
to the Navy Board, were for the equip
ment of thirty eight line of battle ship
and forty frigates, which added to th:
twelve fail then in commiilion, makes thi
number of fifty fail of the line : the bef
conditioned of which and the flouteft sri
gates, were ordered to be the firft got rea
dy.
The French naval force in the Medi
terranean, amounts to twenty fail of tin
line and many large frigates. The repub
lican, a firlt rate, is at Toulon.
The promotion of British Admirals nov
daily expetted, is to be immediately sol
lowed by the appointment of flag officer
to three fleets, equiping for sea.
Three English frigates have failed tij
the river Scheldt aftej; the French frigates
Commodore
to Flushing with four others has notified hi
arrival to the States General and th<
Prince of Orange.
If the rulers of France imagine, tha
any appeal to the paflions of the people o
England, will have the efreft they ma;
with on British seamen, they will be otitii
their reckoning ; those brave fellows wil
fliil fight with as much courage and zea
againtt <the enemies of their country a;
ever : a despotic monarch, or a fnrioti
tyrannicjconvention who know no bound
to their ambition, and who disturb Olt
England's tranquility, are equally its ene
mies, andjuft objects of national venge
ance.
Orders are gone from the war-office foi
two regiments of foot to be immediate!;
embarked from Gibraltar, to reinforce tin
i (lands of Dominica and Barbadoes, in the
Weft-Indies.
Everyday, and every new event, con
firms the opinion, that a war with Franc<
is an event at no great distance.
We are given to understand, that ;
manifefto on the part of our court isalrea
dy in preparation. The publication of i
Iboner or later, of course, will depend ci
future events ; but the conduct of tin
French and the late audacious address o
the minister Le Brnn, 011 his majefty'i
speech to parliament, will probably acce
lerate it. The refufal of lord Grenvilh
to confer with Chauvelin, the agent of tin
French in London, is said to have been im
mediately succeeded by Lc Brim's threat
ened solemn appeal to the English nation
which came over ready prepared, in tin
fame dispatches with the order for a con
ference with lord Grenville.
The preparations for war making bj
3Ur government are principally direcfet
To the protection of our trade. On thi;
account it is, that such an nnufual num
ber of frigates had been put in commiffinn
Pome of which are to be commanded bj
Admirals. The duke of Clarence we un
derstand, is to have a new ship of 98 gun:
now nearly ready for sea at Portfmcuth
The Dutch arc extremely busy in pla
:ing their marine on the most respectable
footing. Several line of battle snips were
jut in commiilion in tiie course of the lafi
fortnight.
War being now considered by many
is certain, and not, on any terms short oi
ibject fubmiflion, to be avoided ; all de
scriptions ofperfons under government
ire tiling exertions, to meet that event,
iltogether unexampled in any country.
Neverthelcfs, so much at variance fernr
the public opinion, (and the perpetual anc
:onfiderableflu£hiation funds, istht
fulleft proof of the last) that whiift the
immediate dependants on government an<:
those whose trade is war, call most vehe
mently for it, the bulk of the nation, thai
wiihes well to the civil and religious li
berties of the French, hope and believe
that so deflructive a calamity will be
averted.
Jan. 21. —Our learned and eloquem
Secretary of State sets out, in his elaborate
r£tVpipt with faying that he fliall give M.
Chauvelin no credit, but as he is accredit
ed by the king of France. No fuel', per
sonage being now in exiflence, w hat de
gree of credit can be given him r He
would then, it Teems, in 110 Tort whatevei
treat with a minister from the republic 01
France? in his own highmindednefs,&high
mightinefsfiiip, not allowing that country
to alter itsgovernment. when the majori
ty of it think it fit. What would Olivet
Cromwell not only have said, but have
done, had Mazarine refufed to acknow
ledge the fovereighty of the republic of
England.' He would have dellroyed with
iiis rieet all tlie sea-ports ofFrance towards
ike Mediterranean.
It is known th.it government, upon the
present occasion, are providing lor the de
fence of the kingdorr, by ail encreafe of
the ariny—the readied: and lea'S expenfiye
mode of doing which is, by railing inde
pendent companies.
PARIS, Jan. 7.
Extracts of a Liter from General Tiumou
risr, tit the President of the National
Convention, dated Dec. 31.
" Tiie whole German empire is armir."
against us. We have cut off some of the
heads of that hydra, Despotism ; other:
spring up; but we shall still humble them,
or die in a manner becoming the ferns of
freedom. Such are thefentiments of your
fellow-citizens in arms. lam a surety for
them, for I have had a share in their la
bours. their dangers, and their vi&ories
" They are far from being intimidated
by new dangers; but they have need oi
clothes, arms, horses, and a certain fnpplj
of provision. They have no occasion for
encouragement, but they ought to be re
warded.—Your Generals have need ol
your confidence. You are the Reprefent
tatives ofthenation in theAffembly; your
Generals are its representatives at the he 3(
of the armies. Their functions are more
laborious than your's, and they are befidei
under the mod terrible refponlibility—
death and the inflexible judgment oi pos
terity."
" I am better acquainted than any ont
with the courage of the French, and th(
resources of my country. If its forces art
weff diftritfutedj if -can refi)\ all-Europe
The experience acquired in different office
which 1 have held during the space of thir
ty-fix years of a very laborious and bus]
life, lias given me the knowledge of all th<
means of this beautiful republic. I oifei
to it my vigilance, my experience, and mj
life : lam not afraid that I shall be sus
pected of aspiring at the dictatorfliip o:
lladtholderlhip of the Belgic Netherlands,
though such absurdities have beenpublifh
ed by malevolent persons, whom I coufider
as greater enemies to the republic than tc
myfelf.
" I have taken an oath,and I here repeal
it, that I will retire from all public em
ployment on the conclusion of a peace. J
lhail then have done enough for my coun
try, and for history. Should this precau
tion be not fufficient, when the republic i
delivered from the scourge of war, to re
move all suspicions, I prcmife to impose
upon myfelf the moll rigorous oftracifin.'
Extra/t of a letter from Gen. Valence (da
ted Liege, January 2.) to the Mini net
of War.
" I have the honor of informing vcu.
that a detachment of the van-guard, com
manded by General Neuilly, li.is been feni
into the country of Luxembourg, undei
the command of Colonel Colomb, wilt
announces to me, that he has seized in the
Emperor's treasuries, cafli to the amount
of 200 000 livres. When I receive thai
sum, I shall transmit it to the pay-maftei
of the army."
0/lend, Jan. 16. A recommendation ha;
come to the merchants of Dunkirk from
the executive Council of France, to, fit out
all the privateers they poflibly can, againfl
Eugland.
In consequence of this, all the vefiels at
this port, that are fit for the ptirpofe. are
buying up ; but no merchant of this cit>
will be engaged in fitting out any vefi'el
against Great-Britain.
The following are the particulars (by
letter) of a recent a£tion (Jan. 6,) at
Hockheim between a body of French and
Prufiian troops. —" This action was very
finart 011 both fides—The French troops
stationed at CafTel, under the command of
General Newinger, wanted to force their
way to Hockheim, but the Hefllan and
Prussian rroops contested the palT.ige.—
Prince Hohenloe attacked the French in
flank, which forccd them to make a hafly
retreat to their entrenchments at Cafiel.
When the king of Prulfia entered Hock
heim, twelve Frenchmen, who were con
cealed in the tower above the town gate,
fired down with muskets and carbines upon
his majeftv. who was then very close, hut
escaped without injury. A Heflian detach
ment immediately rulhed into the tower,
and cut the 12 Frenchmen to pieces.
The French left 300 men dead and woun
ded on the field. The Heifian Chafieurs
have flittered considerably. This after
noon (fays the letter) r6o Frenchmen and
12 pieces of cannon were brought into
Hockheim, preceded by 12 trumpeters,
as trophies of the engagement. Morepri
foners are expected to-morrow."
NATIONAL CONVENTION,
January 1, 1793.
Speech of M. KersAint, 011 the Bri
tiih War.
[Tranflatedfrom a French paper. ]
The National Convention has referred
to you the memorial of the miniiier of so
re , 2ibirj oa t.ie p.-efent condua of the
brni: ? government, and the- proportion
tm.t I Have made to prepare for a
time war if the fafety and r 1 -h»
republic fhuuld require it. ' "
I (hall divide the result of my reflections
dh tiiis impoi tanc matter into two parts ;
in the fir it I (hail endeavour to penetrate
into and cring to light the intentions of
the Bntifr ministry ; in the second, I (hall
boldly anticipate the confluences of the
war With which we are threatened.
If the cabinet of St. James fhonid declare
Ns tir again!!: you, you will discover the
combination of the maritime powers, and
you may be sure before hand, that you will
have to fight them all at once : but it is
not of their number, or of their willi to
hurt us,that I have any doubt, but of their
power. Thegovernments of Britain, Spain,
Holland, Ruiiia, and Portugal are our ene
mies, for they are all de'fpotic. Let us
confine ourselves at present to the molt
powerful of them, becanfe it governs a
people who formerly enjoyed Come decree
of liberty; and that (ingle advantage "had
rendered it formidable while ourselves
were fiaves. Let us consider what th-
Bntifli government can do ; let us unravel
its designs and discover the end that r
withes to obtain. I perceive three dif
t.n_a: mterefts, all equally foreien to the
Bntifii people. The hatred which the king
bears to Jie French, and his fears for the
...fetv of his crown, is the only motive of
the altered that he has manifelled for I.ouis
aYI ; this intere!t is ilrengthened by that
01 the nobles, and of the episcopalians our
natural enemies. The anxiety et the prime
rounder, Pitr, the matter ofErg
land for eight years pall, and whom the
norm oi a revolution or of a war equally
threatens to hurl from his feat of rev. er ';
this party is coune&ed with the other by
the ariflocracy of ttiotjied men and the nu
merous agents ot government : the war
will bring about a coalition of tiiefe two
interells, and such is their force, that they
will carry England along with them. The
ambition and genius of Fox, and the in
trigues of hisi party, endeavouring to avail
themselves of every circumrtance in order
to lay hold of the reins of government ;
Battering with great nddrefs the various
hopes or reformation which he thought the
mon proper to keep the nation in a fer
ment, v. h.'ch hopes the idea alone of a revo
lution has converted into fears; so that the
leaders of the oppohtion, deprived of their
iormer weapons, have been left 'at the
mercy of the government : a jnlt punifli
ment and a memorable example, which
ought to forwarn free men of the darrer
of intrigues. The cause of this event
which perhaps will be fatal to the world,
is tnai a&eriilic of that celebrated ora
tor, who by his genius maintains the repu
tation of a party, the la(l frail fnpport of
the defenders of liberty in En"lard ; n
friend to the rights of man, and a flatterer
° tl,e an oppofcr of the measures cf
Government, and yet a fuperflitious admi
rer of the Bririfli conflitution : a popular
irifiocrat, a democratical royalitt ; l'o:c
ias but one view, that of raising himftif on
he ruins of his rival, and avenging for
'lice, so many parliamentary defeat" nor.
icfs fatal to his interest than to his glory.
His prudent adversary has need at
this moment c£ all his flrength, for lie
mult at oncc defend his popularity and
lis party, evidently arifloc'rarical', ic\-
alty and its power evidently alifolrte ; and
it war (hould break out, can he Le sure of
preserving anichf the events that will b~
its consequence, that preponderance whk'j
is disputed with him in time of profound
Iris a fact well known in Lmdand
and which a croud of examples has'mtde
a political axiom, that the n inifler w\ o
begins a war never fees the end of it.
Pitt cpnlidera war a the termination of" his
authority, therefore Pitt does not uifh for
wai ; but what arc his views ? What ar *
the views of the various parties concerned
in this grand conflict ? Ccorge tie thirl
would have war from the impulse of his
Fox would fain lead the iriuiftrr
into falie measures and coi ipel them to de
lend the abuses of government. Ti thopes
to extricate himfelf frc.m this dilemma, I,y
offering his mediation to the belfigcr'ei t
powers,he has the weight of government
with him, al! the branches of which are
in the hands of his creatures ; he has for
him the theory of corruption, his eloquence
ar.d tile key of the treasury. Our emi
grants and the arifiocrr.tes who fnrrcnrcl
him, urge him on to the two determina
tions which he seems to have taken : viz.
to check the rapid course of cur \i&ories
by land, by the (ear of a maritin e war,
and to bring us to an accommodation witli
our enemies by means of ins mediation. »
It is natural that Pitt fin • id be fetiucrd
by these ideas ; and the partial knowledge
that he has of our foliation makes h'uri
look on his as certain ; for our in
renal notations, the apparent disorder of
our legislative delibei ation-, the mass < f
our expenses, the violence of our rvtrt'e
all thofeexternal characterises eft he moll
violent crms which a nation ever experi
enced, arc. we ran ft own, well calculated
to ground tie hopes on which that mir.ittcr
relts —He does not that the immi
neiicy of" public :- £ e r will re-unite us •he dots not know that those agitations, so
much talked of, (hew an excess of i'.rength,
and cannot belong to a debilitated body ;
that our exper.ces however enormous,are
nothing, it we compare them to our re
sources ; that the whole of France is here,
and that we have yet several milliards in
store, of which we cannot make a better
life than in employing them to found our
internal and external independence; he
does not know that the number of our en
emies, far from difcotiraging us, will call
forth our activity and our resources ; and
that a people who bring into a common
flock, their hands, their courage, and their
fortunes are invincible ; that they can nei
ther want foMiers nor money ; in fine, he
does not know that such is our iituation,
that we must no longer count our enemies,
and thar they have placed us under the
glorious necellity of conquering them or
periOiing in the attempt. If Britain vvith
out a motive, in contempt of the law ol
nations, ftiould declare war again!* us,
frenchmen, remember Cortcz burning hi?
veflels in light of his whole army landed on
the Ihores of Mexico. ,
But after having drawn your attentior
to the actual (late of tiie British govern
ment, permit me to call it now to the dil
pofition of the Britifn people, for that peo
ple is not yet reduced to that degree oi ser
vitude that they Ihould be reckoned sos
nothing in the fuppolition of an approach
ing rupture with their government. We
have been accuftomeel to designate undei
the generic name of Engliflimen, three
different nations whoin nature has separa
ted, whom force had brought together
whom interest conltantly divides, ane
whom the principles t>f our revolution havi
variously affercteel.
The English people, like all conquerir.r
nations, have long opprefled Scotland ant
Ireland ; but it mult be obforved, tha
these two lalt nations, always restless ane
secretly revolting at the injustice of tin
Englilh nation, have obtained at differem
periods, such concessions as have left then
the hope of regaining their full indepen
dence. I shall not here expatiate 0:1 the
circumstances which form the difference
between Ireland and England. Every oni
knows her parliament, her vice-roy, a:ie
the kind of political liberty which (lie ob
tained by open force during the America!
war ; but what is not so well known is
the difficulties which the British parlia
ment continues to throw in the way of the
indnllry and commerce of Ireland, ane
their constant oppolition to the freedom oi
that commerce. The Catholic feit is yci
fubjefledto the Gothic and barbarous law:
of intolerant ages ; and with this kind a:
partial independence.the Irifhfeem to tnn
their eyes upon us anel teli us—Cume,Jkeu
your jellies anclw; are free.
Scotland labours under other grievances
flie is represented in parliament, b it in s
manner so disproportionate to her riches
Jier territory anel her population, that (h.
mult befenlible that (lie is in fa£t. n ' mart
than a colony dependant upon the Englill
government, and yet the Scotch know
their rights and feel their flrength ; the
principles eieveloped by tiie French nation,
iiave found their zealous defenders, who
.have deferveel the firft honors of the perfe
ction of the British government ; bill
those persecutions iiavc made proselytes, £!:
no where have our triumphs been celebra
ted with greater joy, than in the cities ane
towns of Scotland, the principal of wliicl
have been illuminated on those occasions.
Ireland anel Scotland, attentive to the
progress of the French revolution, know
with what regard we have spoken of the
people of England ; it will be harel to per
fiiaele them that in contempt of every ieler
of equity, thjey ought to pay frefh taxes tc
make war upon us. because we have resto
red to a nation the navigation of a rivei
which opens to them a communicatior
with the ocean, aael even affords to the
trade of England a shorter anel surer roaei
tofecure to herfelfthe rich produSs of the
llilgic provinces. But can the people ol
England, properly so called, in their pre
sent hoflile difpolition towards us, difpnft
of the resources of government as the)
please, to make an unjiift war upon us ?—
I ought to fay, however, that the citizen:
of London, anel the principal towns ol
Knglanel are labouring fe>r that purpose, ai
the present instant, with infinite pairjs.
Such is the power of the government in
England, that it can do every thing. It
engrofles to itfelf a multitude of men thro'
the medium of intereit. The arillocracy
of the cities and revenue departments, is
infinitely greater than in France when the
revolution took place in 1789. These de
scriptions of men are now the auxiliaries
of tiie court anel the parliament, and make
■ a great outcry at our flare of confulion.
our anarchy, our weakness, anel certair
misfortunes of the present el v, which it
seems we are to blct from the pages of out
hiliory. They are afraid of th ■ people in
the country ; and the Britifn clergy ane:
the cpifcopalians, employ that hypocrifj
which if. congenial to then, and their influ
ence, over the minds of the people, to ef
face the impreflions-made by our fuccefles,
and the evidence of the truths we have
proclaimed.
In fine, have you forgotten that the Bri
tifn government nvie'e war again!! their
colonies, contrary to the willi of the F.tl
gllfh peopie, ami 10 fatisfy the private re
sentment of the king ?—O thou land', here
tofore the theatre of liberty, unfortunate
country of Sidney and of Milton,who can
without grief turn his eyes to this quarter .
Who can fee tiic tower of London metn
morphofed into a Baflile of Paris, so long
an object of horror to the people of Enp;-
land—Who can fee the liberty at theprefs
and the liberty of opinion banilhed from a
country where these two palladiums of
public "liberty were framed by the tutelary
genius of the Rights of Man —the philoso
pher Prieilley persecuted, Thomas Paine
proscribed, Cooper and Walker belieged
in their honfes for having aflerted that men
are equal and free (
Such is at this moment the situation o,
an illand. lately so famous. Such is the
power of the aristocracy, of the nobility,
of the rich, and of the priests, 3t London,
that our debates of the National Conven
tion, that are read with flich avidity, so
esrneftly liftencd to, and which.occupy fu
large a space in all the French gazettes,
are wholly excluded from these of Eng
land. Who would believe it ? EvenaSpa
nifli inqulfition could do nothing more crat -
tily tyrannical, than what the Englifli go
vernment lias dared to do at this instant tc
diilract the national opinion, to awake the
old prejudices of the people againlt us, arc
to intercept the light of truth in a country
which the government has condemned u
ignorance and slavery.
In the mean time, the rigorous i»ea
fares of the government, and its fears are
i proof, and may determine the progref
the French opinions have made among tin
people.
fThe remainder of M. Kerfaint's fpeeci
will be given in our next.]
• <-'**« ■■ ■ mut Ljnxp ummwernum
PHILAD E L P H I A.
March 23.
Extract of a letter from Oporto, to s
respectable House in this city, dated
January ij. «
"We are Innrly expecting to hear,
liat England, Holland and Spain have de
tailed war with France : These combin
ed forces by sea, intend to prevent any
>rovilions entering the ports of France,
.vithout refpeit to the flae of any country;
'russia Germany, &c. &c. will h irrafs
hem by land ; inlhortall Europe seems
.ombined againfl that nation. Mofl peo
ple are of opinion, that Portugal will
maintain a neutrality, which will be very
lappy for us.
Accounts from Dominica (late, that an
'.lined copper bottom (hip had arrived
:here from England about tiie jotn ot
rebruary, after a remarkable short paiTage.
jy which intelligence was received that a
,var with France was now become inevita
ble, and that eight guineas bounty w ere
dven lor entering feanien, when she fail
ed.
\_Frov 2 a Corre/f trident."]
"It is fai l that the American Roya'ifls
iavebeen much embarrafied, as to the man
ner of evincing the sincerity of their grief
"or the " murder" of his Chr : f}ian
raiefly—Whether by muffling the beils,
n all the large towns and cities, for the
pace of twelve months at leaf}; or by
rloathing themselves in the fable rarb of
mourners, on the occasion. The lail mode
aas met the approbation of a majority ;
jut a refpecifor men in power, whichij cha
-atteriftic of these mourning gentry, has
:leterred them from haflily putting their
fcherne in execution, until the crrt f all
liave time to lead the way.—lt has been
suggested. that, in order to fr.ow their
marked abhorrence of the "murder'' of
Louis, they oujht to burn in effigy, the
fix huntirtnl.and ninety three members of
the convention, who facrilegioni'ly dared
to declare their Sovereign guilty of those
crimes which brought him to the fcaffold.
The mourners, it is said, would be inccn"-
folabte, did they net entertain the mofi
fangnine hopes, that the nccefiion o( Great-
Britain, Spain, Portugal, Holland, anil the
Germanic empire to the last year's combi
nation of kings, will be fufficient to enable
the duke of Brunfwiik, to put his I,aft
year's threats ill execution ; to "take an
ever memorable vengeance" on the French
revolutionists, by putting every man of
them to the sword ; and u totally to de
molish the city of Pari", not leaving one
(lone Handing upon another. ,l It would
i>e extremely hard that such laudable
hopes Ihonld be difappointcd
We are requested to contradict the in
formation in our lait relative to Cel. Proc
tor's " having received word from the In
dian chief Cornplanter, that his people
were inclined for war, and that it might
not be prudunt for the Colonel to pay
them a visit"—"No such communication,
it appears, was made to Colonel Pro£tor.
and the whole account is by him. fmce his
return from lies weflern tour, declared tc
be unfounded.
Caleb Strong, Esq. is chosen Senator,
in the Senate of the United States, for the
state of Maflachufetts.
About the eleventh of January a party ol
Indians appeared near Fort Jefierfon. \vh<
were fired at from the fort and ore -.von
ded. This is the only party that have •
pcnrediii the neighbourhood ofFortJef
ferfon lince the beginning of November
lalt, when they engaged with Major Adair.
An American gentleman juit arrived front
France, where he h id every opportunity,
and (pared no pains to collect the belt in
formation, communicates the molt agree
able accounts from that quarter. The
city of Paris was in a Hate of perfect tran
quility, and under the ltrifieft police ; the
military under exa£t discipline, the order
:>i the convention great, confidcring the
number of its members, the natural viva
city of the French, and the unbounded va
riety of buiinefs they have to tranfaft. La
Fayette, he also informs, meets with good
treatment in his confinement.
We hear from Jamaica that the govern
ment of that i(la"d is putting all the forti
icatioiu into the belt slate of repair, and
lumbers of troops are soon expe&ed, addi
ional to tliofe now in the island, to gar
■ifon the various forts and other places
if defence.
Since cur lalt there are no arrivals that
"urther confirm the former accounts of the
.xecution of the king of Franee on the at It
if January. From a variety of corrobora
ting circumltances, however, the truth ol
lie matter is now considered as beyond a
ioubt. The lalt letters fiate that he fuf
ered about 4 i:i the morning, by torch
ight : his head being fevered from his
lody. fell into a hole below the fcaffold,
uul his body was thrown in after it.
r/ic folhivi'T is from n late Charlefion
\_S. C.~] paper. and (qs prefixed in the
Refoliiticns) signed by a very large num
ber of reputable names.
tyE uhofe names are under-written.
** magillrates, planter ~ merchants, and
ither citizens of South Carolina, have, on
nature deliberation, come to the follow
ng resolution".
When we cnnfider the toils and peril;
ivhlch the people of this state have pafied
through, in order to eltablilh liberty ar.d
.■quality, and the fond predilection with
■vhich they regard the republican fyltern ;
t is not without regret til it we fee titles
md appellations of diflinftion of rank and
iiperiority, gaining ground in our coun
ry, and now almolt eltablilhed by univer
al Co: lent. We allude to the titles of
Sxcellenry, Honourable and F.fqnire,
•Jventoour magistrates and principal ci
izens. Although all fnch titles are ex
iref.lv abjured by our conliitution. as
lavi 111 badges of the dclv.fetnent which
irevails in the governments of enslaved
Europe, yet we find these titles publicly
illumed by our magistrates and leading
Tien, who uniformly dr. bib each other
■vith those titular appellations, which are
low considered so far as a matter of right,
hat to emit them would be giving of
'ence ; and we find them inserted in the
jroceedings and public acls of pur leg'f'a
tire. In Ihiirt, a few men in pp.- ci un
ay, conipofed of the legifiatorN judges,
reneral, and field-officers of njiliua, our
lelegates i 1 Concrete. jnftices, lawyers,
md rich planters —to this elevated class,
the governing, ruling part of our citizens
ire given those high titles ; while the in
lividtials which compose the great mafi
if the governed, the people, are callcc:
?ach by the appellation of Alifler, from
i Vleflier, a trade, a word in, its origin de
loting a person of inferior, low life ;
tlrus avowedly afierting, in the face <1:
.he republic, an inferiority <1 conditio!
Ktwecn men belonging to the fame foci
?ty, and who, from the nature of our go
,eminent, are every way on a footing o
civil equality, except that the one art
rich, or are servants of the cnmtr.iir.it)'
i'T.l the others not. V. e are net infenfi
:,le that many will think, ard others pre
:end, that those titles are only terms of ci
,'ility, and of no confer.uer.ee : tut an\
a:ie who knows the nature of ambition
rod with what eagerness a human creature
iVir.es on a trifle, light a leather, to e
oifilTr.i rrHaie o+'Aopartition, ard ra,:.* h;m
feif above his equals ; that it is the ftroiig
.-It biafs cf hi; nature to aim at such ciif
:in£tions ; and that the thinnest difgtiifes.
md feebleft reasons, are Itrorg enough t
ferve hir-i as a pretext. lie v. ho confi
:'ers these things, will view this rrpre
fenting of honorary titles, by high onces,
2;reat opulence, and lucrative profeffions.
to be of ftime moment. We ast is net
this splitting, this partitioning out of foci
. ty into two orders or dalles, ihcfe :n arc
"/of office? The honorable and not ho
norably or ignoble, reverend and irri z':--
rend, ariflacrat and AJijler—do not all
these amount, not to an untitled, fcrt
omething like a titled nobility rmorgft
us? Is not the title honorable at lead e
;ual,isit not ftiperior to noble or light
honorable? And ts ncthuroli.'ity, or feme
such high-founding appellation, one day
to a rife* out of this servile language to our
public fen arms ? Is it notr s l.kely to pro
duce degradation amor; the people oi
South Carolina, as nobility has cure ir
Europe ? O 1 this fliameful, odious prt';n
il'neofour's in favor«of hi{;h flyirj
diftin&ions, serves to prove, that tie poi
fous of royalty, have r-tt yet been !ilf{:-
entiy eradicated cut of err I'oil : ar.d if ii
1 e trie that " e are fond of them, it i
d; bp lit) 5; to the tp.ir.ly c! arc! fnrjdi
ilty of r»pr.b'.ican ■
Let us therefore, freemen of Csrulirs,
reject tfyem altogether ; let not the pro-'
pie renounce the right of equality, 1 i ';.
guard that patriotic jealousy against tern-;
and fofhions of fervilitv, which,
into ttfage. and gaining ttrength by t:ine,
would eater into the habits and manners,
into the very blood and spirits of our citi
zens, and prepare them lor that flavifiiin
feriority and debafemerit, the source of
all the pppreflions and miseries of the
whole world.
Convinced of these important truth ,
we therefore, refolte,'&c.
[For the resolutions, fee pur paper Mo,
144.—]
Reflexions itfon Several Sitbjet's.
[From a late French Gazette.]
1 • THE cloud ef hand-bills and
tifements that infect the (Ireets ard public
papers at the approach of an election, mav
be compared to those vafl flocks of crow
that cover the tops of trees at the eve of ;i
battle. They are black, croaking, feed
upon the putrified flefh of the and
liover over the field of battle fevernl day:,
after. It is very difficult to decide who i;
the most filly, the advertifar who tells all
the world that he is the only hontrft man in
it, or the reader of the paper, that is weak
enough to believe w hat he fays.
2. The liberty of the press, like the li
berty of Ipeech, is the liberty of faying n
;reat many more foolifh than wife things,
>ecaufe there are many more fools in the.
world than men ps fcnfe ; and every body
;no\vs that for,ls arc always very fluent of
"peech, having the more to f;.y as they are.
txempt from thinking.
3. I pnee knew a man who infilled upon,
railing himfclf my friend, altho'l one.
irevioutlv engaged. He always rose be
ore me hi the morning, in order to be the
irft to fay good morrow; he praifec! me
or every tiling I did ; if I bent jny wife,
le descanted liberally upon my mild tem
>er ; if I spilt my (oup upon my cravat ho.
A'3s furc to admire my neatr.efs ; did 1 run
ny ncfe agginft a wall, he then extolled
ny prudence; iu (liort, there were no
ies I could commit, but h_-Commended
hem as inltanccs of my ingenuity. At lafc
le so far gained on me, as to induce ire
>ccafionally to lend him money, and. r .
lfnal in fitch cases, never paid no. W •
jttarrelled, and he called we one of the
left natnrcd fouls in the world—l foibacjp.
lim my houfa. and he called tile n 1: "del o'..
lofpitality ; but his :■bfence ha: ccf.
ess than t ij thousand livres 1
4. Education i« the \ivi Tying font of a,
*ree government. Without it the efforts
)f liberty degenerate into a ft ver thai con
"umci a nation, and in the end le; -.«•« them,
1 prey to tyrants. It is of the h'ghett
importance that primary and lecor.dary
chools be ettabli;: cd without i'l.iv-.hpr (le
av. and that tbcfe to whom they are en
rutted Ihould be ttri£lly enjoined to read
very day to the people the renovated laws
;f France, and fiich ii.firnf ion : 5 the le
;iflature or executive powers (lull decree
o be diiletitinati.d thro' the various de
partments of the republic. Itisalfoab
"olutely neceilaty that the faiarics cnn.xed
o these schools ! touid be Inch as to attract
he attention of v. ife ard virtuous men,
vhofq views ps ambition however, are so,
"ar bounded. as to ma!-e these schools the
>bje£L of their moil aftiduor.s care,
5. Public opinion is that ttonny ocean
ipon which the great snip of the republic,
md of liberty, mutt expcifito fail. Public
nftruflion is like that fal;:*ary oil which
:almsdow 11 the waves;!.at had been raifeel
:>y ignorance and the passions of men.
Without it. the agitation of p i lie cpin
on will at 1 ast pccufion a tern; s that will
\\ allow up all our hopes—Nien only go
vern each other by means of acquired
deas; the enemies of public peace can
■illy mislead a ratipn by deceiving them.
Dnly afford to a free go', ernmcnt frfi ciei 1
neuns to convey to every irdiviriual the
ruths neccfl'ary to clireft and fuppurt it,
clminiflr.tion, and it will be fecund f. cr.i
ill convnllions.
f». The best motv.urer.t we can ra'.fe to
Liber:y,is Liberty herfelf. Itisnot (latrcs
atjd pj ramids that ouj lit c o -fiantiv to hoc >
her in our view, but go i d laws ard goo I
morals. As lorg as we carry her in 01
b, earls, her mere'image need not be hcfoi •
;-ur ever, and if ft e {hould be forced si
withdraw from our ct un'.ry, her p 1 rami';
and llatues would be only a tonne ;r. ii ..
human virtues had at ro time m< rr t'ati 1 i
■net tern; les in Ren e, than ; t tie very
time the y were ill a Hate of exile f om ih: t
capital. Let us tale care then rot to : n) ! -
tate their example in fiii i'g nr ir.ctropo
iis with vain fjn bols. as they arc !y m
means a proof of the pre fern e of t! e re I
deity— teff'e*, Fr rce has no bro 11- ne
tal now to spa.i e for tl e r e idle ]11 rj i><es :
war mutt: be waged, ard every por.nd (t"
hrafs ard copper will be w anting to repi 1
the forces c.f dc fpotifm. I'le F.ir.ih.c
---\ üblic lias 1111 fc rm y negleclc ci c< r p> r ■
pi l t on for ereflirg statues ard pyri n id .
and v 1 en brought be'ore the grand coun
cil <>t the nation, tlcy were ccuaanti.
{lighted I y r.n in:n cdiste tall fcr—the or .
iJer of the day.keep d i a", rent funds differently appropriate J
10 inviolably separate as that one might net
til, d for the object of the other : a i was .
i glit lie conceived provided what was ta- ;
ken was to be replaced. He w. s alio of j
opinion that the overflowing of one fund j
could be applied' to make up tlie deficien- j
cy of another, and that all that is nectffarv
u; to give priority to ihe approp iation
'j he money paid in E' rope so interefl on
the loan \v said to have been improperly
applied ; became the fund appropriated
for the purpose was here ; he infilled, that
tii.it money was absolutely represented
here by an eqoal sum, and he contended,
that thn' the i.it red wai not paid in the
identic al coin appropriated, yet by allow
ing a verv la itude of expreflion
it could be said that the intereil was paid
with the money appropriated; for the ap
plicabihtv of the fuma there depended on
the exigence of the fund hie.
He next turned to the fee :;d charge ir.
the rcfolution, and after fnewirg, that the
natural presumption was, that the Secre
tary either was inflructed or had a difcre
tionary power, he ilieu vindicated his con
du6t in refpeit to the drafts of money to
tViis country.
lie did honor to the mo ives of the
gentlemen who had inllituted the enquiry,
ai.d concluded an elegant speech, cf which
we cannot pretend to give the moil faint
idea, l.y a contrafled piflure of our for
mer and prcfent situation as a country,
dwelling upon the importance ofpreferving
harmony, and infilling on the dagger of
giving rile to suspicions agaii.ft a high!)
responsible officer, and of bringing forward
charges not to be supported by proof.
After Mr. Amis had set down, the
qtieftion was taken on the til rcfolution;
„:;J the committee divided, 14 to 3!] a
ga 11ft ;t.
Mr. Giles, inclined to withdraw the
remaining refo utions, conceiving that a
divifioi) onjjbe fiilt fufficiently expressed
the fenliments of the comm ttee.
Mr. Steele infilled on taking a queflion
on each.
The Chairman informed that they
could not be withdrawn ; they were re
fered to the committee ; a report on them
m'i'l be obtained.
The fecpnd was lall without a division.
The third, which is as fo'.lows came
under confederation.
Refo'.ved, that the Secretary 0/ the
*Tresfury Has omitted to discharge an
essential duty cf his office, in failing to
g ve Congrcis oiTicia! information in due
time of the monies diawn by him from
Europe into the United States, which
drawing commenced in December 179 >
and continued till January '793; and of
the causes of making fueh drafts.
Mr. Findley 1 of; in support of it, ar.d
expressed hirr.f If as 'ollows:
[If my hopes rcfpeifting the govein
ment have not been equally elevated with
those of the gentleman from Maffichufetts
(Mr. Ames J, neither i 3 my mind so
much <1 eprefled with fears : But I hope
I am equally anxious for the (lability,
and profpeiity of the government, and
though we differ in opinion on this quef
tion, yet I am firmly persuaded, that the
pa t I take is the bell calculated to pro
mote ihe v irtue of its adminiilration.—
As the gentleman in an elegant discourse
has explained no difficul. ics, produced no
proofs in support of his opinion, I wil-
Lngly add, that I believe the government
to be so well e(lablifh-d and so much be
loved by the citizens as not to be endan
geied by the house of reprefe.itatives ex
aniining how ihe laws have been obeyed
in the application of the public money,
and giving their opinion as a result of that
examination.
That the Secretary has net reported
fully to this house in do; time is so much
within die knowledge of every member,
that it is impossible to doubt of the fait,
however we may differ about the proprie
ty of the condurh
To go no farther ba k thaa lafl feflion,
ben.les the references to the Secretary to
niport upon the ways and means, an to
inform tlie house wh.it revenues were ne
ceffary, on the 30th of February 1791 a
Handing order was resolved, diredting that
he fliauld report unto the House, within a
few days alter tlie meeting of the next
IciTio 1, an occur, ti flatemcnt and account of
the receipts and expenditures of a.i the pub
i he monies—in which Jba'l be diflingufhed
the expenditures which fall under each head
of a'-f-rofiriation, ar.d that it JLall be Jheivn
the f;:n.s if any. ivhicb rem tin unexpended.
Wire l.ot the monies drawn upon loans.
public m.ncy, znd were tWe'e loans appro-;
piiated ? Undoubtedly they were ftr.ttly !
so. It is a weak evaftcn to fay, that i-v '<
these expressions, only the Current revenne
is intended. rgumenta ir.tift be scarce
vvl.cn tliib In conies neceffuy O.i tlie 19th
of Jan. lalt he was cal ed upon to lay Le
Jore hie house inch information, with refpeel
to the finances of the United Stales, is will
enab e the leyflalurt to judge whether any,
or what additional revenues will be nectffccry.
In consequence of the recommendation
of the President and the wifnes of this
houfetocomnier.ee the discharge of the
redeemable part of tie funded debt, a
reference was made to theSecrttary rcqui
ring him to report a mode for the applicati
on 1 f the public mo :ey for th t purpose,
the house being assured by the gentlem.n
who moved the rcfolution, that no ne*
tax was intended or necessary ; hut ti.e
fccretary so far from informing the home
how much money he had ftibjeft to his
discretion in the bank in notes, he propo
led a new and partial tax as the founda
tion of a new fyilem of loans.
\ /hen the memorable bill to authorise
another loan of 2,000 000 dollars was be
fore the house, a few weeks ago, we were
told by a gentleman on this floor, that |
there was not time for argument, that the I
bi 1 mull be passed in thiee or four dayS,!
&c. and when we wanted information
we were to.'d by some of the friends 01
the bill, that it was not convenient to
give information here; that we might
procure information elfewh; re, as they had
done. I conlefs I did not comprehend
this method of legislation ; but the se
cretary has since explained it in one of his
reports, by complaining of the house be
cause the members did not go ti his of
fice and aflc information, instead of requi
ring it to be publicly reported.
Even when this favourite bill fora new
loan was before tlie house, the secretary
did not conde'cend to inform us, that he
had without authority provided 1,500,000
dollars for that purpose. He did not in
torn us how obligingly he had drawn
bills upon our bankers in Holland to have
the money put in our way. Thus in or
der to anticipate the payment due to th
bank he d'-d what he could to indnce
C ngrefs to break the public faith, by
repealing the exilling appropriation made
or securing t e discharge of a dei-t of jus
tice and gratitude to the French nation.
From thi and other inllances it appear;,
that however high the secretary's regard
for public credit may Le, there are other
conliderations which have obtained a
higher degree of his attention, than ofce
dience to the laws.
The gentleman from Virginia (Mr.
Madison) has so clearly explained the na
ture of that discretion with which the
Secretary is veiled, and so fully proved,
t at there was no neceffuy to juflifv a de
parture from the appropriations made_by
law, that it is not necessary for me to ex
plain further on that head. However, I
cancot help remarking, that the difcreti
ooary powers were pretty freely exercised.
The drawing of bills began early indeed,
and was continued to a recent period.—
he times of drawing fortunately corref
ponded with the ueceffuies of the bank,
and the power of employing agents was
pretty freely used. The fame agents
were frequently both the fellers and the
pur. has rs of the bills. Perhaps this was
nectffary; no doubt it was convenient ;
probably it was tafe ; but who can fay it
will be always so ?
I have not said so much to prove the
truth of the fails' expressed in the refoluti- j
on, for of this there can be n > doubt —
It is as clear as the fun shining in hgh:
but in order to prove the propriety of
this committee expreffi-ig its difapprobati
on of a conduct so unjuflifiable. I hat
information was withheld unduely is evi
dent from the lateness of this difcuffiou.
That it was obtained with difficulty, is
evident from the numerous applications
we were obliged to make in order to ob-
O
tain it J
Mr. Boudinot read several items in sun
dry reports of the Secretary, to (hew, that
•;e I ad reported under a diilinft head of
ioans, the money drawn fiom those loans:
he infilled, that the Secretary bad in this
matter literally complied with the order of
til/; house.
Mr, Mach'fon remarked that he had not
reported monies hi) ing in bank before they
r.ere transferred to the Treafurei's ac
count
Mr. Boudinot inlifled that r.o funas
were uiiiwo iiut what wire included in the
! report lie i.nri jtiit referred to.
! Mr. J-.ee supported ihe affirmative, Mr.
, Hillhonfe the negative. Mr. Madison
next rose in support of the refoli.ition, and
was followed by Mr. W. Smith, who tx
prefled himfclf nearly 23 follows:
He said, that after the vote which had
just prevailed by so confide;able a majority
on the preceding resolutions, the commit
tee net with any propriety criminate
the Secretary of t'hj Treasury for failing
to give the information alluded to, because
by th t vo e it had been eltablifhed that
the Secretary had only acted under the au
t ority cf th: Prelk'ent and conformably
I to his inflru<flioni ; if there had been any
I omission to communicate information to
Congress, that omission was surely not
chargeable to the Secretary. But it had
been already clearly (hewn by documents
in the poSTeßon of (he house, that the ne
cessary information had been communica
ted. The Treasurer's accounts which had
been from time to time laid before the
hcufe exhibited the amount of monies
proceeding from the fa'e of bills, and the
Secretary's report of February I 791, con
veyed full information of the d.aw ng. It
| w.ie true there was a sum of about Goo, oco
t dollars, the proceeds of bills which, as had
,| been remarked by a gentleman (Mr Mad
ison) did not appear in the Treaftirer's ac
couat, but this was to the falcs cf
the bills by the bank not having been clo
sed at the time the lad quarterly account
was rendered, and confequen ly that sum
could not appear in the Tr.afurei's ac
count. (Mr. Madison h.id said he had not
meant to blame the Treafurcr.)
Mr. Smith procceeded: The gentleman
however, had attributed miCcoiiduft to the
Secretary, for withholding information of
the amount of monies in the trcafurv,
accruing from foreign loans, when di
• re£ied by the house 19th of J tnuary,
: 1792, to report whether the exiiling re
1 venues were adequate to face the addi
tional exptnee of the Indian war. Mr.
Smith could not forbear expreffin r great
: surprise at this remark of the gentleman
from Virginia (Mr. Madison) when he
recollected what had been jull before said
• by the fa ne gentleman in support of the
former resolution. The gentleman on that
occalion, in his attempt to disprove the
right of the Secretary, ex officio to super
intend the monies derived from the foreign
, loa:,p, had endeavoured to eilabiifli a nice
diflinftion between th? ordinary internal
revenues of the country and the re'ourccs
reflating from the f reign loans.
The law conflituting the treasury de
partment, he had frd, gave the Secre
tary p.awer only over tfie revenues, which
embraced only the ordinary resources,
whereas loans were diftinft thing?, the
management of which was spec.ally en
irulted by law to the supreme magillrate,
and in relation to which the Secretary
could exercise no authority whatever, that
was not derived from the Preii ent. The
gentleman now argued that the Secretary
was blameahle in cot giving information
of the slate of these extraordinary resour
ces, which were not within his depart
ment, when only called upon to ft ate the
amount of the ordinary revenues, which
1 were witi in his department. He left it to
1 the gentleman to reconcile this contracic
; tion, for certainly his doctrine was crro
! neous on the former occasion, or it mull
! be so now ; it lite monies obtained from
foreign loans were to be deemed the reve
j titles of tlie country, then they fell of course
j under the management of the h ad of the
treasury department, aad it was wrong in
! the gentleman to irn lite mifcondutt to
, the Secretary for exercising a legal autho
rity ; if on the contrary, these monies
were viewed as an ex'ra refouree, and not
within the purview of the Secretary's fine
tions, then it was wrong to censure him
for not communicating a lijteofthofe mo
nies uhen required only to report the
ordinary revenues.
Without admitting th? soundness of the
■; diflinftion set up by th? gentleman from
; Virginia, Mr. Smith said that it was never
the intention of the house, nor in the idea
of any individual member, to call for a
' state of the monies proceeding from the
foreign loans when they pulled the order
i of the 19th of January 1792.
The order was in these terras, " Or
dered that the Secretary of the Treasury
be directed to lay before the house, such
j information with reipeft to the finances of
I the United States, as will enable the
lature to judge whether any additional
revenue will be neceffnry in of
'he proposed increase of tlie military eftab
11(hment " Tr is call was fully complied
with, for th * Secretary laid before the
lioufe an cdimate of the interna' revenues,
which unquestionably were the only reve
nues in contemplation by the lioufe at the
time, and the house feeing fatisfisd that
they were incompetent, hid additional
i duties.
[Debate to be concluded in our next.j
METEOR OLOGICAb OBSER VAT 10T/S.
March 1 79 3 •
D. I \ Bar. jlie,. W.'.i.L Weather•
Tuesday, 12. : 29. 75/ 4c \V. Cloudy,
: 2Q- 6d 43 i do.
Wednejday, 13. - 29. 05 38 s. sv . Ciouay,
2 29. • 39 do. Fair.
'~J Lu 'j day, 14. ' 30. 26 M . li. lair.
•_ V> ■ <4 i. W j do.
1 riday, 15. : 30. S. W .Tc:r~~
2. • 5° <*"• I eto
$utu> day t 1 . yjj. u| >S* «. )Cl. udy.
> 3c. l| 61 do. d'<?.
KtUHtiay,' 17. - 30. 1 51 S.S.W. Chudj.
1 30. >. *T2 i W. / ,{/r
Mondayy 18. ' 30. c ,50 calm. lia?:cy.
■<\ 30. c 69 jS S.VV Z'ouL.j.
Philadelphia, January 12, 1793.
MATHEW CAREY
Refpecti'ully informs the Cit'.zens of the
U.iiitd States, that the Maps for hii
intended edition of
Guthrie's Geography
rMpKo v K u,
Ar? now en^iavin^, —and j$ soon a> a fu/Iklent
number of.th m art- linifhed, to secure a
supply auring rh« publication,which will pioi>a
blv be early next tl»e w.»ik wi-1 be put
to press.
He returns his acknowledgments to the very
remediable number of fobicribert, wh come
lorward thus earl, to p3tion/ze this arduous un
dertaking. He afVurcs ( ><-m and the public in
general, that no p.tins or ihall be spared in
i!.e exccuvion of the w -rlc.
Terms cf tie Work :
I. IT (liall be publ»lh?d in 4$ weekly num
bers, each three ihects, or twenty'four
p:g»s, of letter prffa, in quarto, printed with new
t\ pes on fine paper.
][• In the courle of c!,e work will be deliverei
about thirty large ihe fame size as rhoie
in the European editions, viz. njoll of them (hrec
maps on poil paper.
[CJ* ] jJ fdis tie m-tfis in the BrU'ijb Edition*
t is 'work ivi i contain v. re or leu jlmc.'uan Stales
Maps.
Jil. T lie pr'ceof each number will oe a Quar
ter collar, to be p<»-d on deliver*.
No cdvar.cc required.
IV. Subscribers whr> di'aoprnve of rhe wmk,
on the publication of the three lirrt number*, are
t) be at liberty to renin them, and Giall l«ave
their money repaid,
V. r i he fubferibers* nawn stall be prefixed a&
patrons of die undertaking.
*#* Sublcj in Philadefpbia L>v,
:!ie putljfher ;in ?«;<v- Y«>:k 9 by all the
!;oc.klel!ers ; in New-11 av .j, by 1.1 . »r
la.tijrd, by Mr. Tu' .t j in by MeP
llamas and And;e*s, and bv Mr- V/e:> s
">al»'iri)ore, by Mr. P,icj } \u Richmond, by 5.-r.
C.kc. ;in CUailell.jnV'by Mr, W 1\ Voan
md by sundry other pctbal t ! »e Uni
ted St.Kes. tid.w.
F O R S A L E.
S 'bSc-itfr wifhres to lell the HOUbfi
J and LOT in I'rr ce: >«, now in the tenure
I Wiiy.nm Worth , it is an eligible Hand, either
for a private family or 2 u- being ficuatc«£
II the North fide of t)ie Arecr, near the centre of
'uj town, and a linie 1 f ihe maiket house—
I he lot oontaiof Igirty-two feet in /»ort, and up -
vaiJs of two ln.ndied j'evi in dep.th j bn the pie
-Vifts is cre£t .-J, and in jj-m a Unaniable order, 4
: .«o rtorv dw'ilirg h. ul-, twenty fift front by 26
.1 ; two rooms on the lower floor, with an
■ rati y 1. : f; . c vv'j j three rooms on the fee end
!">or, and t ropm in the garret, Urhcd and plat
' red. Ir. the rear o» the br»w(>, an 1 a*joi»in ; ;
r.ieieto, is a l.»r. kitch n. and flic cellar extenrs
'he whole of t!,e house. Jn ihe yard, th-.c
s a well of excellent water-— the jard and
.re encloi d with a good pal lence. Tlif* Uouie
■id lot n> e 'nt be an object *o l«,fne gentleman «h <
■ lijiht wiih to educa;e hi» c!n>dreii either at the
College or rhe Latin or Lng.a/ii fch -olp, whicH
i;e c aijttcd upon an cnpiored plan—The
- 1 'dif, utable, and poffclfiap may be had thr fir<i
■ ! April. For terms ap, !y to the fubfciib-r in
!\ inceton. • J ARED, SEXTON.
•* 1 Tcb. 2?>. 4'A'isw
A FEW COPIES OF THE
T R ANS ACTIONS
Of the Society in Knitted in ihi State of
\or a, fur thi promotion of
AGRICULTURE, ARTS, and MANU
FACTURES,
May be had at this Office.
[Price HALF a ooLLAit.J
Jan. 5.
tor fme l at the printing cffice 9 a ftiu ccbics
of the nrQ <tp!um of the National Gazette.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS and S ITAIN E,
AT THEIK OFFJCE NO. *09, HJC«-Sr«EJl f
NEAR riCTH-STI'.IT,
vk'J L f> 1 r)n A»