By P. FRF. NE A If: (at No. 209, Market Street) Published Wednesdays and Saturdays, [Three D ollars per annum.']
Numb. 84 of Vol. II."] SATUR DA Y, August 17, 1 793-
The folloro/ng Letter has been tranfniUed
hv the Secretary of the Treasury to the
Colleßors of the different Ports in the
Unit .I States.
K CIRCULAR to the Collectors of the
Cusi O.MS.
Philadelphia, JnguJ] 4th, 1793.
Sir,
tT appearing th.it repeated conrraventi
ons of our neu.ralitv have taken place
in t'le ports of the United States, without
having been discovered in time tor preven
tion or remedy, I have it i'l command
fro'n the Prel'dent, to address t«> the col
lectors of the refpeftive di(lii£ts a particu
lar inflruction on the fubjeft.
It is expected, that the officers of the
cn'totns in each diftrift, will i;i the course
of their official fpnflions have a vigilan
eye upon whatever may be paffirg within
tile ports, harbours, creeks, inlets and wa
ters of fiich diltrifl, of a nature to contra
vene the la« s of neutrality, and upon dis
covery of any thing of the kind, will rive
immediate notice to he governor of the
ft ate. and to the attorney qf the judicial
<liftrict, comprehending the diltrift ol the
ciiftonis within which any such contraven
tion m.tv happen.
To a'fift the judgment of the officers on
thi„ head, I tra ifmit herewith a schedule
of rvilrs, concerning fu idry particulars,
which have been adopted by the'Prefident,
as deductions from the laws of nenrrality.
established and received among nations.
Whatever (hall be contrary to these rt'les
will, of course, be to be notified, as above
mentioned.
There are some other points, which,
pursuant to our treaties and the determi
nations of the executive, I to notice
to you.
If any veflei of either of the powers at
-war with France should bring or fend with
in your diltrift a prize made of the fubje£ts,
people or propertv of France, it is inime
(liately to be i.'Otmed to the governor of the
Hate, in order that measures may be taken,
pursuant to the 17th article of our treaty
with France, to rblige such ,ve(Tel and her
prize, or such prize when fe it in without
the capturing vefiel, to depart.
No privateer of any of the powers at
war with France, coining within adiftrict
of the United States, can. by the twentv
fecond article of our treaty with France,
enjoy any other privilege than that of 1 pur
chaling such vi£tuals as (hall be necelfary
for her going to the next port of the prime
orflate Irom which (be has hercommiflion.'
If (he should do any thing belide this, it is
immediately to be reported to the governor
and the attorney of the diltricl. You will
observe by the ruies tranfinitted. that the
term privateer is undei flood not to ex'end
to vefl'tls armed for merchandize and war,
commonly called with us letters of marque,
nor. of course, to vefl'els of war in the im
mediate service of the government of
either of the powers at war.
No armed vefiel which has been or fha'l
be originally fitted out in any port of tne
United States by either of the parties at
war is henceforth to have asylum in any
diftricl of the United States. If any such
armed vefiel (Iml 1 appear within your dif
tri£l, (he is immediately to be notified to
the governor and attorney of the diftricl;
which is also to be done, in refpeft to anv
prize, that such vefTel fhali bring or fend
in. At foot is a lilt of such armed vefTel;
of the above defcriptton as have hitherto
come to the knowledge of the executive.
The pnrchaling within, and exporting
from, the United States, by -way of mer
chandize, articles commonly called contra
band (beinggenerally, warlike instruments
and military ltores) is free to all the parties
at war, arid is not to be interfered with.
If our own citizens undertake to cari v
tiiem to any of those parties, they will be
abandoned to the penalties which the lawt
of war authorise.
You will be particularly careful to ob
serve, nnd to notify as direitsd in other
instances, the cafe of any citizen of the
United States, who fliall be found in the
service of either of the parties at war.
In cafe any vefiel fliall be found in the
a£l of contravening any of the rules 0,-
principlcs which are the ground of this in
flruction, (he is to be refufed a clearance
until (he (hall have complied with what the
governor (hall have decided in reference
to her. Care, however, is to be taken in
this, not unnecessarily or unreasonably to
embarrass trade or to vex any of the par
ties concerned.
In order that contraventions may be the
butter itisdelired that theaffi-
cer who fliall firft go oil board any veiHi
arriving within your diftrift (hall make ail
accurate survey of her then condition, as
to military equipment, to be forthwith re
ported to you, and that prior to her clear
ance a like flirvey he made, that any traiif
greflion of the rules laid down m;.y be
appertained.
liut as the propriety of any f:ich inspec
tion of a veflcl of war in the immediate
service of the government of a foreigr
nation. is not without question in reference
to the tifage of nations, no attempt is tc
be made to i ;fpefl any fucii vt si :l till fur
ther or<ler on the point.
The President desires me to fignify tc
you his moil particular expe&ation thai
the inff rucHun contained in this letter wil
be executed with the greatest vigilance,
•£>iviry, care and impartiality. Omiflion
will tend to expefe the government to in
jurious iniput tioil* and suspicions, »ih:
p opbrtionably to commit the j.'.oocl f.-iitli
and peace of thecountjry; objects of toe;
much importance not to engage every pro
per exertion of your zeal.
With conlitierat ion. I am. Sir,
Y our obedient servant,
RULES adopted by the I'refident of th<
United States.
I. The original arming and rquippine
of veflels in tile ports of the United State
by any of the belligerent parties, fur niili
iary service, ofienlive or defenfive, i.
de en eel unlawftil.
11. Equipments of merchant veflels bv
either of the belligerent partie- in the ports
of the United States, purely for rhe ac
commodation of them, as such, is deemed
lawful.
111. Equipments in the ports of the
United States of veflels oi war in the im
mediate service of the government of an)
of the belligerent parties, which if done ti
other veflels would be of a doubts ul nature
as being applicable either *o commerce 01
war, are deemed lawful ; except those
which iliall have made prize of the subject
people or property of France, coming aith
tlieir prizes into the ports of the United
Slates, pursuant to he seventeenth article
"f our treaty of amity and commerce witl
France.
IV. Equipments in the ports of the
United States, by any of rh-» parties a'
war with France, of veflels lifted for mer
chandize and war whether with it with
out commilG . , which ::rv doubtful in
their nature, as being applicable either to
commerce or \\a., " deemed lawful;
except tllofe which fhali have made piiy.e
<>f the ful.j. its, people or property of
Francs, coining with! l ' ir prives into the
ports of tiie United States, pursuant to the
seventeenth article of our treaty of ainit)
ami cumin rce with France.
V. Equipments of any of the veflels of
France, in the ports of the United Sates.
which ate doubtful in their nature, as be
ing applicable to commerce or war, are
deemed law ul.
VI Equipments of every kind in the
ports of tile United States, of privateers oi
thpowers at war with France,are eleem
eel lawful.
VII. Equipments of veflels in theport*
of the United States, vhitli are of a nature
solely adapted to war, are deemed unlaw -
ful; except those stranded or wrecked, ar
mentioneii in the eighteenth article of 0111
treaty with France, the fixreenth of our
treaty with the United Netherlands, the
ninth of our treaty with Pruflia ; and ex
cept those mentioned in the nineteenth ar
ticle of our treaty with France, the feven
ree.ith of our treaty with the United Ne
therlands. the eighteenth of our treaty
with Pruflia.
VIII. Veflels of either of the parties
not armed, or aimed previous to their
coming into the ports of the Ui ited State;
which fliall not have infringrel any of the
foregoing rules, may lawfully engage or
inlilt therein their ®-un subjects or citizens,
nt being inhabitants of the U. States; ex
cept privateers of the powers at war with
France, and except those veflels which fhail
'lave made prize of the fubjefts, people or
property of France, coming with theii
prizes into the ports of the United States
pursuant to the seventeenth article of oui
treaty ot amity and commerce with France.
£ Here follows a lijl of privateers. ]
From the ( Rvflon j Independent Chronicle.
ytfAVING the obfiyrvations ofPACiii
cus, which appear the efftdion of an
avowed enemy to the French republic, and
treating on fubjectj which the generolity
of France renders totally unrtecefTary a:
"r.'fem to agitate, the great queition now
before the public is, ' Whether by the
treaty between tilt United States and
France, the latter have a right to fit out
Hups in our ports?' To determine this
qiieftion, it is necessary to hand to * Th e
the articles on this point, from
the Dutch and French treaties.
By the 28rh irticle of with
:he Dutch, it is exprefsiy declared, ' That
;he commanders oi vefi'els belonging to the
United Netherlands (and so reciprocally)
have a right to take freely into iheir Ser
vice i.ito any port or place, under the obe
dience of the United States, featnen or o
uier:iariv -sorinh ■ .!> tantsofany country of
t;ie denomination of the States-General.
To determme, whether the French have
: h.c fa ne r.'ght, the second article of theii
treaty e:v,>rcliiy mentions. 4 That no par
ticular favours (hall be granted toother
lations, which /hall not immediately be
come common to them. 1
1 here is no occalion to comment On
befe two articles, as it is evident, that a
rench captain has a right to receive on
board of hisvtfT-l, French citizens r eliding
i any p »rt or place in America.
Fhe foregoing principles being eft..b!ili
e«, the main question now to be ascertained
, * Whether the French have a rijrlit to
proiit their privateers in our ports ?'
1 hi- decilion rests on the conftru&ion
Jilt o the 22(1 article, via.
ART. XXII. It (hall not be lawful
lor any foreign privateers, not belonging
to i v,bje£ts of tfte most chriflian king, nor
uitizciis of the said United States, who nave
tomm.iiions from any other Prince or State
a enmity with either nation, to tic their
nips in the ports either of the one or the
Jthei of the as rcfaid parties, to fell what
liey hava taken, or in any otiier manner
\hatfoever to exchange their (hips, mer
handzes, or any other Jadingj neither
nal. iHt) bt alkn. Ed even to puruhaJ'e vic
tuals, except Inch as fliall be necelfary for
tneir go .ig to the next pore of that Prince
>>r State from which they have commiili
uns*'
In Support of this article, it Is alledged,
hat this prohibition againlt fitting the (hip*
>r priv .tcers belonging to any other Euro
pean nation, implies a pernnliion tofuowl
:ht privateers belonging to France.
hut in this conch.lion we have tocombal
he opiition of one of the Judges ol the
supreme Court.* He aiferts, »that tin:
uference caimoi be justly drawn. 9
W hen a private citizen has to contctic
>vi th an authority so resectable, it oblige:
lim to tread the ground of controvert)
Aith camion. But notwithllanding ilu
ration of his opponent, and the authorit)
jf his de'.ilion, yet it is prefumtd that the
Kreemen of these States, feel chat degree
f independence as to dispute the inialli
ot opinions, however fan£ti»ned b\
jflice.
In .ill controvei fial natters, it is bed (r
educe the principles ot inveliigatiun u
:lie moll limpte itiite poflible. that we ma;
iot lose the obj ct in fophiitical explanati
on.., or logical definitions- I would thcJ
lk, u lit t her it can be rationally luppo(e<
:nat either the French nation or the Uuitec
States, meant, at the time the treaty wa:
any equivocation, prevarication oi
neutal reservation, in tlie explanation oi
iiio 22tl article? If they did not, what i
lie moil liu.pie or natural idea connedec
aJtli tne words of this article? Lota thou
aiid uiiniliueii£cd, impartial men read it,
iud I dare venture to aiiert.that nine hun
li'ed aiici ninety nine would at oncc con
:iiu)e tnat the aegattve, as it re peels othei
lations, \\ ai the moll pofitroe declaration,
is it applied to France and the Unite c
states, that words could convey.
It is proper to remark, that at the time
:he treaty was ligned, these two na.iom
'.vere in the mod cordial intimacy anc
fricndlhip. All these' negotiations were
iounded and prosecuted on these benevo
lent principles. Thus circumitanced, the)
Found it congenial to their mutual intereit,
to knit themselves in the firm eft bond ol
union, to guard themselves againil the othei
powers ; and all the privileges that were
denied to others, it is probable Were bono
sice conceded as bellowed on each other.
1 he treaty was (iri&ly that of amity,
commerce and partial benefits. The par
ties did not then feel as fom? now do, a
It-par ate interest. 1 hey did not appreliend
* judge Wilson—-
[Total Numb. jBB J
we Ihonld have influential citizens, who
would endeavour by sophistry, to destroy
the avowed principles and oijefrs of the
treaty. France fll |>pufi d that a conftruc
ton as liberal as that contemplated by
Franklin or Lee, would ever influ
ence the minds of Americans in all their
declfions; and generonfly concluded that
nothing farther was neceflary to determine
the intentions and defijrrts of the contract
in;; parties, than an express prohibition as
it refpe£ted the other powers of Europe..
I have only to revert to the fee ing- i-f that
day, for a proof of my obfci v uion.
The principle which was ge-nerally pre
vail ng at tlie time of our adopting the Fe
deral conrtitution, ' That'what was not:
expressly given up, was retained, operated
with the molt extetifire liberality on the>
mindsof the cohtrafting parties, and guided
them in their deliberations.
Feeling a regard for the honor of my coun
try, I cannot without emotions of
read the following feruiments; as tliey may
serve to place the United States in a very
disagreeable point of view in tjhc eyes of
the citizens ot France. The words allu
ded 10. are, " It may he allerh-f,) that this
prohibition again! the (hips of pri
vates belongii gtoa 'y other nation, I'fl.
pnes a peimiliion to si. the (hips o+'pi ivates
bilongiig to prance. —But the inference
cannot be juttly drawn. If by a prwmife
m tde to one peifoi, I retrain myfelf front
lending money to any other;] am not surely
by that retraining engagement obligul i j
lend my money to him." This kird of
reafoni»g might appear with a tolerable de
gree of grace, in the common parlance be
tween two lawyers, engaged bv a tee tu
support their difffe" ent pleas—But as a na
tion, declaring their fentimeuts on a ques
tion of the highest import, as it refpe£ts the
molt fail ed of all national obligations, can
we accede without some limitation, to this
iophiftkal explanation ? Or can we suppose,
that the patriots of France, whose fouls
arc fired with the cause of freedom, arc!
.he rights ot man, will cordially refpoud to
this decision ? Call any national faith be
ounded on a more (lender basis ttian that:
at America, if such arguments are admit
ted bv •' the People" as conclusive and
valid r
The negative, as was before observed, as
it refpeds Other nations, is the most nofi->
tive declar„tion that could be made in fa
vour of f ranee. 1h; - article Oauds mucfi
irn-jer than if it had been f ,id,
' Tiiat tlie French privateers fhouid have
a l-iaht to fit out i'.«_ ii v ifels in America."
Had it flood tlHiupon the principle of
equivocation now a-i<p -d, it might have
been urged, that th«' the French v ere
expref'-iy permitted, jet it d.d no; imply,
but what other nations might be allowed
the fame indulgence—For when r ophi.'-ry
is praftifed, a, the weapon of conti nverfy,
words however arranged, or fentimems
however exprefled, will ever fall a faci
le e in the combat.
Waving every fubterfuge of this nature,
and taking the spirit of the article on those
principles which \ve have every reason to
'iippole operated at the moment on the
minds of the contracting parties, it mutt
lie acknowledged that it Hands on the most
impregnable ground poflible— 1 "It fhallnot
be lawful, &c. are expreflions, which ac
cording to all the principles and design of
language, convey a conclusive idea, that
they, (the Frencn) and they only, (ball
(lave this right.
At a further proof that this was the in
tention of the parties, our Ambalfadors.
previous to the acknowledgment of our
independence, gave comnii'ffions t« priva
teers, and they were permitted to ai in and
man them in France.
How far the explanation of the treaty,
by the learned Judge, corresponds with o—
tlier fentimeuts advanced in his speech, leC
the putyic determine. He fays, •' To love
and todeferve an honest fame,is the duty of
a flare, as well as of a man—To a St..te, as;
to a man, a reputation is valuable—lt re
prefl'es hostilities and secures efieein— lu
tranfaflions with othc?r nations, the dignity
»f a slate should never be permitted to fut
fer the fnialieft diminution."
These are femiments worthy ta be U'rote?
in letters of gold. Placing then the Uniticl
State" in the filuation or an individual, I
ask, provided one man was to enter int>
an agreement with another, upon the
avowed principles of amity, and it was ex
prefsl) declared, that no other pyrfon w atr
to receive certain fpecifed advantages,
whether upon the common acceptation cf
word*, and taking their peculiar circum-*
liatiies into coulUUrat'wn at the tinje theagreement iWttricTe, 'MVcmiJ ,;c:'oe con
jfidered by every impartial person, that the
pirties were exclusively ehtitled to them ?
And should any other explanation be at
tempted by either party, whether it would
be co.ilidered as an unfair measure to evade
the performance ?
If a nation, like a man, has an honefl
fame to secure, why (liould they not have
the fime line of conduct to p.irfue?—lt
reputation is valuable, as it ' represses hos
tilities, and secures efteern,'why, if we are
Anxious to keep ourselves out of the pre
fect war, and uifh to secure theefteem o(
«ur allies, fhonld we adopt principles dero
gatory to our honor ; and thereby, ac
cording to the judge's own sentiments,
provoke other nations to commence ' hof
lilities againfl us ?
The so egoing observations arise from
the implication that is fairly dedutible
from the article of treaty. But as the
Hon. Judge has not suggested an idea that
snv law of the Unite#l States forbids the
French from fitting out privateers in our
ports, it is prefn ned that there is no le
vi l.'itive authority to prevent it. The Hon.
j udge mut concede to th s principle, ' that
where no law is, there is no tr mgreflion.'
It behoves every person in his Itation, to
<!- cide agreeable to the promulgated laws
of the states, as no man has a right to dic
tate beyond what the law will warrant.
If it is found, that by implication the ar
ticle will bear the conUi-nii on now plead
ed for, it is the duty of t : iofe who are
called upon to decide on this question. to
request the meeting of congress, that the
principles may be thoroughly investigated
by the representatives of the peop/e ; and
if neceflary, such efficient laws enacled,
whereby every citizen may know the pre
cise ground on which he stands.
To conclude, no good citizen willies
this country to become a partizan in the
present war ; but as we are in treaty with
the molt fprmid tble nation in Europe, let
us give it the mod fair and liberal con
ftr.uction. Let lis b. careful, that while
we are anxious not to i \ o ve ourselves in
a war with the other power , that we do
not difalfeit our only European ally. Lit
us not forget their ferviees, while the hand
of Britain was heavy on us ; but let us re
member, that the cause of France is the
caufeof universal freedom; and on their
success depend ihefulme liberties of the
United States.
A REPUBLICAN.
For the National Gazette.
of the UNITED
STATES.
Sir,
BEING an American by Ttirth, an early
admirer of your principles and conduit,
and feeling a conscious less of the dignity
attached to a free citizen of the United
States, I take the liberty of addrelfing you
in this public manner. Sure I am, that if
jou were acquainted with the secret re
cedes of my luart, you would excuse any
impr pr exprefF.on, and give a favourable
confti u lior. to »vhat may be offered on the
present occasion. Sir, I have watched in a
ipecial manner the conduit of your ene
mies, and the enemies of our country, from
the commencement of the declaration of
3nde|sendeiice; and the time was, when our
highly refpefted General despised their se
cret machinations, and brought to light
private intrigues ; the time was, when the
Man of the People, would make
known a Duclie, as well as an Andre,
when it had become proverbial amongst
enemies, as well as friends, that Wafliiig
ton vjns impregnable i and believe me, Sir.
my opinion itill remains the fame in refpeft
to you but jealousies have gone forth ;
permit me to observe to you upon what
ground they have taken their rife.
Our mutual enemies act confidently : —
they have endeavoured to dedroy the re
fpett, vigilance, and activity of all true
friends to their country, by reporting all
manner of evil of them falfely ; they have
so far fueceeried, that it is well known
many of our old wiiigs have been reproach
e their char?.£iers vilified, and means
Taken to ruin them ; that in consequence
100 many of our veteran , feeling the
-weight of the infuit, have loft their forti
tude, and lade* into despondency : they
have exulted at their ruin ; but, Sir, view
Their conduS in the promulgation of the
present conilitution. Their constant game
was to play federal againlt anti-federal,
jnen that had no other design than to raise
up a people, from their vociferous bellow -
jngs, to oppose them, and by that lfreans,
place their conduit to the overturning the
conflitution ; for believe me, Sir, it is
neither you. nor the constitution of Ame
rica, fht y love or admit e, but a divition of
The people—Examine their conduit: with
regard to your proclamation, and their ad
<Jre{Tc'S to you on that occasion. Eelore it
was fcarcily read, did they not run to you
•with their deceitful compliments ou the
occasion, and for the express purpose, as
above Hated, knowingthai the real friends
of tiieir country could, nor would not join
lier known and noted enemies ; and if a
fnigli individual (honk) think it his duty to
write or (peak on the fubjeft, the whole of
the great body of the people, real friends,
and uniform democrats, are vilified in ail
the public, oewfpapers, with' charges
roundly alf-i'te«l, as flnti-faderalifts, cne,
mies to our executive, overturners of the
government, disposed to anarchy, witl
every other' diabolical charge—Examine
their line ef conduct, and compare it with
those that are enemies to the republic of
France, and you, Sir, will find it exactly
limilar ; there it has been discovered that
from Dumourier down, the greatelt ene
mies have profefied to be the warmed ad
vocates for the new govern. nent, until dis
covered by the people The tenth ot
Augult, in Paris, the maff.icre at St. Do
mingo, and every general outrage has beer,
brought about by the fame kind of con
duit, and I fear the clangers apprehended
amongst us will originate from the like
canfes Much more might be added 01:
this head, were it neceflary.
Frofn what has been said, I would only
will) to impress on your mind, who yotu
real friends are, and who the friends ol
our country. Trult me, they are not Bri
tilli agents, or emiflaries, nor those among
us that are against the virtuous struggles ol
the French. Much, very much, depends
on judging aright between the parties thai
are now llruggling for pre-eminence ;
whofedependence is in drawingyou offfron;
your trueintereft For God's fake, for
the fake of your country's prosperity, for
the fake of your own hnppinefsand honour,
I intreat you, Sir, fci utinize the character;
that are cringing to yoi>, and whifpei ing in
your ear : Conlidrr that Free Men. pof
felled of Republican principles, cannol
flatter; but they are the people you have
proved, and wi'l ultimately have to reij
on. AN AMERICAN.
Philad. Augult. 14.
For the NATIONAL GAZETTE.
THE insidious characters which have
lately evinced their diiTatufaftion to the
glorious revolution of the French, have
now thrown off the ma(k which has so lonp
concealed their real thai-afters, and have
poured forth a licentious torrent of the
molt unmerited abuse upon the character
of a Man, whose conduct has still manifefl
ed him worthy the office of the repre
sentative of a free peopie, whose talent'
hive declared he peflefles ab lities equa
to ihe talk, and whefe virtues mult make
him rtfpefled by every friend to liberty.
Charges, the in»lt innocent in their nature,
and trifling in their conferences, have
been adduced to public view, blackened
with all the malevolent inferences, height
ened with the molt calumniating accufari
011s, and couched in the melt abusive lan
guage, which men, guided byperfonal re
sentment, could invent. Happy, however,
for M. Genet, he is above the reach of
those enemies who would v illi to asperse
his character, and so long as he continues
to pursue measures which are as confident
with his capacity, as he has already adopt
ed, he will experience the fatisfaclion ol
being respeCted by those who applaud the
caule of his country. Asa man of sensi
bility, however, it cannot but wound hi:
feelings to meet with a reception, among
a free people, so contrary to his own ex
pectations, and those of his countrymen.
The friends of tyranny have now triet!
innumerable resources to make the inhabi
tants of these United States difaffecfed tc
France. The aCts of vengeance whicr
have signalized the revolution have beer
held up in the molt outrageous colours:
The decapitation of their tyrant has beer
brought forth to awaken our sympathy ;
the illegitimate authority of the Conven
tion; the profane characters who compose
that tumultuous body ; the tyrannical fac
tion of the Jacobins, and finally the condufl
of their ainbaiiador, are reprobated, an<
made a fubjeit of expatiation : no doubt,
with a view of seducing us to a violatior
of those treaties, which, so far from being
annihilated, by a change of sentiment in
our allies, have received additional llrengtl;
and for the fulfilment of which, our nati
onal honour and prosperity are pledged.
It may not be improper, in contemplat
ing the subjeCt under conlideration, to ob
serve the drain of those writers who have
impeached the conduct of Mr. Genet in
declaring hisdetermination to appeal to the
people. One of the molt conspicuous o)
those characters, is a person who has rru
dered himfelf notable to the public, by
' volunteering' an address to the ambassa
dor after he had relided in Philadelphia ;
fufficient time lor the citizens of the ' mid
dle states to have been acquainted with hi
coi.duCt while to the southward.' How
his principles have been thus ' regenerated
is a problem, which many may not find
it difficult to solve. I have only to indulge
the hope that some one who has more lei
sure than myfelf, will take the 4 trouble 1
of ' answering' his lengthy publication;
which have appeared in the " New-York
Daily Advertiser' and re-publifiied in mofl
of the newspapers of this city; left, he
should again fliew track, and either run to
the other fide, or fink into ignominious con
tempt or oblivion.—'l'fhall make but a
remark or two upon his pre.lix observati
ons.
"Mr. Genet declares that if the rrefi
dent of the U. S. pursued meafHres agree
ably to his [own] construction of treaties,
he (Mr. Genet) would appeal to the peo
ple.' In a republican country, the people
Slone are the balls of the government—
All powers being originally derived from
them, can, by concurrence of a majority,
be by them withdrawn at pleafnre—'They
alone are the authors of the law, and to
them alone. Bull the ultimate decision of
the interpretation belong. An assertion,
then, of Mr. Wil'cocks, that ' all' the
powers of government have been resigned
to the representatives' cannot have any
foundation to support it. The represen
tatives are entrulted with particular pow
ers only, which are guaranteed by the
constitution. The reft still remain in the
exclulivepolfeflion of the people, to be ex
erciled at pleasure. The * sovereignty' of
our legillative, but more particularly of
our executive department, is a doctrine as
incompatible with the principles of liberty,
as it is inconsistent to be taught by one,
who profeifes to be a republican. An in
tcrpretation of the treaty by the ' Prclident'.
(Vattelismy authority) when it claflies
with Mr. Genet's, is of no more validity
then that of the anibaffador. If then the
Prelident pursued measures agreeably to
* his' interpretation, why has not Mr. Ge
net an equal right to conduit himfelf in
conformity to • his' opinion ? He chose
however to appeal to the authors of the
treaty, to whom the Prelident is doubtlef
responsible. No doubt this remonllrance
will be conveyed in the regular mode r<
their ' reprefentatives'who ' virtually ccn
ftitute the people.' Whether tlvis alfertion
Humid have been a just cause of such scur
rility, as has been vented against the author,
every candid inind is capable of judging.
The other charges exhibited against Mr
Genet, are too futile to merit a moment's
consideration. They serve, however, to
lliew the disposition of those who step for
ward to accuse him. The infiirrecfions &
tumults they speak of, are chimeras which
exit! only in the p<"ricraniums of the au
thors. Not until 'offences'of a more hei
nous nature are exhibited, can they merit
the attention of the public. But. whilst.
a coincidence of sentiment with many ref
peftable citizens of this country ; the re
fufal of complying with requests, deemed
unreasonable : and the writings of his se
cretary, are imputed as crimes to Mr. Ge
net, those who are friends to the cause in
which his country is engaged, those who
are not enemies to the progress of univer-
Pal freedom, mud applaud his conduit, and
approve of those measures which he ha
already pursued, and which are perfectly
:onlil>ent with that prudence and magna
limity which will ever ilillinguilh the ho
left representative as a free, generous,
ind enlightened nation.
ALCANOR.
Aug. ts-
PHILADELPHIA.
Saturday, August 17.
" On the principles of a neutral pow
er, our adtions as .1 nation, whatever oui
w fiiea may be in the contest, arc to be
perfectly indifferent to each party. We
have as mechanics and merchants a right
to labour for, or supply each party, at
their request. Should arms, money, (hips,
or any other things neceflary to carrying
on the war, befupplied by our merchants,
the party against whom it is to be used,
has a right to seize it on the hij>h seas,
and to make it prize as contraband goods;
but our (hipping the fame is no breach of
neutral laws. Our citizens owing allegi
ance to neither power, they have a right
to engage in the armies, or on board the
public ships of war of either.
But we Hand with France on a treaty,
which places us on a footing rather wid<
F.om a state of neutrality and indifference.
We by our treaty of amity and com
merce, are not to allow their enemies tc
jring prizes to our ports, or to find fhel
ter and Supplies in our harbours : But the
trench a med veffcls and privateers are tc
tome in with their prizes, to receivc sup
plies, and to be treated with kindness
Whethcrthe treaty allows the French re
public to build, to buy, or to commiflion
privateers or men of war here, is anothei
quel) ion— That they are to have a prefe
rence to their enemies, is clear ; and that
we have authority and right, as merchants
and mechanics, to build vefTels for them,
to fell to them,, and to all nations, vtfiels,
powder, fliot, cannon, small arms, and
every article of merchandize, is very clear,
and that our mechanics have a right to
labour for every nation, there can be no
doubt of." Ind. Chfon.
" The French will not be conquered
(fays a very late letter from London)
I hey may hjfe Conde and Valenciennes,
but their enemies must soon afterwards
feel their inferiority, and, I think, re
ceive terms from those they have so much
attempted to injure, and affected to de
spise. I think this country has received a
fatal injury to their commerce and manu
fc&ufM, and I sm afraid they *,'!! fufTe*
more than the fafety of their neighbours
require. I hope America w ill not hesitate
to comply «.ith every article of the treaty
with France."
The beautiful new French frigate Con
cord, of 44 guns, is arrived at Boston.,—
She is commanded by Citizen Van Don
gen, a French patriot of the mod tried
integrity, and fi>ft rate naval abilities.
On Wednesday lad arrived here, thu
Englilh sloop Hope, and Spanifli sloop
Alodia, prizes to the Citizen Genet,
Little Democrat, and Carmajnole. The
latter is laden with tobacco, hides, &c.
Captain Crabtree, lately from the Well;
Indies, gives the following extraordinary
account of a Sea Serpent, the authenti
city of which may be depended on.
" On the 2Cth June lad, being on my*
pnffage from the Weft Indies, in the
morning, having just made Mount Desert
island, diltant nearly ten leagues, I sud
denly got fight of a serpent of an enor
mous lize, swimming on the furface of
the ocean, its head elevated about fix or
eight feet cut of water, rather prone for
ward. That part of the body which was
out of water I judged to be ahout thefize
of a barrel in circumference, but the head
larger, having some resemblance of a
horse's head.. According to the molt
accurate computation which J made in
my mind, of his length, I think it could
not be less than from 55 to 60 feet, and.
perhaps longer. That part of the body
which was not elevated, but of which I
had a distinct view several time?, was
larger than the part out of water; the
body of a dark brown. I was within' 200
yards of it rear an hour, during which
time, as it. discovered no inclination to
moled us, myfelf and the whole crew ob
served it with the minuted attention, nor
was its attention less fixed 011 us. The
:ye was perfe&ly black, Iharp and pierc
ng. 1 was lo near it as to observe clearly
hat there were no fins or external appen
ds to the body, but that its motion
was by the writhing of the body like
:>ther lerpents. During the time it was
with us, several flocks of birds flew near,*
which it eyed very closely ; I observed in
it the greatest agility and quickness of
motion."
There is no doubt but this is one of
the two which have been seen in these
parts. All accounts agree refpefling their
!.ze and appearance. Two of them, per«
haps the fame, were seen on the shore of
[he Cr.nberry islands, but immediately
:00k to the water 011 being discovered.
1 hefe are tiie firlt ever seen in our seas,
:hat we may have any account of, though
:hey have b en seen on the coast of Nor
way more than 100 feet in length.
NEW-YORK, Augud 13.
From the Diarv.
Mc'/frs. Printers,
Certain late publ cations render it pro
per for us to authorise you to inform the
public, th _ ;t a report having reached this
-ity from Philadelphia, that Mr. Genet,
he French minister, said that he would
tppeal to the people from certain decifi
jns ot the President ; we were asked, on
jur return from that place, whether he
lad made such a declaration- we anfver
:d, that he had, and we also mentioned it
.0 others, authoring them to fay that we»
lad so inlormed themr
JOHN JAY,
RUFUS KING.
New-York, Augud 12.
Ihe EngiifVi brij hfancy, Barry, from
lair.aica to Philadelphia, was captured on
Monday 1 id, and font into New York, a
jrize to the Little Democrat and Car
magnole. The Democrat is said to be on
ter way to ihis port.
It is truly laughable (fays a correfpon
fent) to read the pompous orders i fitted
iy tlie governor of Bermuda, for the de
ence of that island—l am ti>l<l they-talk
flinch of their prowess. il.oiild our great
ind good allies attempt a defcent 1 on their
{land. I will give one or two anecdotes,
of that place, in the year r 772, being in
chat island, i went, in company with an I -
rifh officei, to fee a ; r rand review—the mi
litia, in number about /too, were drawn
up. when their colonel, in a molt pompons
manner, gave tile following words of com
mand :
" Gentlemen, you that have short knee'd
breeches and who e Iho , Hand in the front
—you that have long ti ovvfi 1 and no (hoes,
ftandin the rear." Second word <»f com
mand : " Turn your f.iics to couliti iue's
r--tatoe-patch, antl hi el"" Unfortunately, at the firft volley, a
' »e bull, which wa. tied to a tree, broke
loife, and m::tle direflly tor the regiment,
on w hith tiie coluncl cryed out, k the buli's
loi le, gentlemen, tree yourselves, you are
'J!- " ail S tr -' T hi' regiment immediately
■dispersed, every n an lectirijig himlelf as
well as he could. My friend, the Irilh
officer, observed to me, in the following
words—' by J- —j, the cattle in Ireland
"would in o>»e night dung an island as large
as Bermuda, and yet they could not bo.'dl
01 one hall as many colonels and majors."
It our allies should ever take it, tliey'l
find only two good articles worth having,
viz. the tineff hlh, and the fmel't women ii
the world. \Char.efton City Gaz,
By the brig Molly, C ;pt. Morris, arrivec
herefrom Madeira, wl-iih (he left theStl
ot July, we learn, that oh the 3d of thai
m nth a frigatearrived at Madeira, in nin<
clays from Falmouth, which brought Eng.
lill. new fpapers to about the 24th of June
1 hefe papjrs contained an account of :
very blootiy battle having been fought ileal
Lille between the combined armies and ;ht
French forces, which terminated to the ad-
V ntage of the French , and it is added
th.it 17,000 men fell in the combat.
(.apt. Morri3 fays that the account wa:
believed at Madeira, and that he had con
versed with leveral persons who had seer
the paper containing the above intelli
gence. The fricife was the Solebay; lef
London June 15, bound for Barbadoes.
''When the combined army under tin
prince de Cobourg marched across th<
plain ot Nerwi: d, which had been tin
field ofb.itile on the preceding day, the'
found the ground strewed with human bo
dies. A'onie of the wounded French win
were still alive, cried out, Vive la Libsrte
and the cry was anlweretl by other* tha
had jult power to speak. An Irilhman
Captain in the regiment of Wartehflaben
allured me, that lie never was more ffrucl
in his life than to fee the horrid
of that field, and to hear at the fame timt
the cry ot'Vi-je la Liberie \ (Liberty foi
ever) tV-«n the mouths of men who were
in the arms ot death. The Austrian soldi
ers cofjfidered this as an insult, and fevera,
leit their ran<s to go and put an end tc
tkem, vomiting 011 them reproaches ol
CoquHt de Patriot, &c. T his was perhap:
an act of merciful barbarity."
Extract of a letter from a gentleman ir
Cadiz, dated June 24.
rheie isa hot war with the Spaniard;
and French. We had accounts from Ma
laga of a battle being fought between the
French and Spaniards; the French have
defeated them, with the loTs of about 200 c
men, and the Spaniards upwards of 600 c
men.
" The French have ~ot tie flrait:
blocked up at Malaga, with a very Itronj
fleet. Lad: week admiral Hood floppec
here with a fleet of 28 fail of the line ; f
ot them came in & anchored ; there have
been fevera! ot their officers on board ol
us—they seem to speak very unfavourabh
of their expedition—their ships in genera'
are very indifferently manned.—They art
tobejoined by 20 fail of the line of Spani
ards, which are lying here now ; there an
4 lhipsof 126 guns;—they arejuft waitinj
for orders—So I cxpeft there will bt
warm work shortly.
"The Spaniards, are daily bringing ir
some paltry prizes of the French, but gel
none ofany consequence. The Spaniard:
seem in general low-fpnited, and I believe
they are d inn—lv afraid of the Frencl
coming too far into their country. Wi
have flying news of fevera! places revolting
to the French, near their lines ; if that be
the c ife, Spain will not Hand it long."
On the firft accounts received in New
York of the success of the Ambuscade it
her combat with the Boston, a citizen oj
that place wrote thus to his correfpondem
in Albany :
" I h.ivejuft time to tell you, thatthere
has been a battle between the French sri
& -it L Ambuscade, and the Englilh frigate
Boston, arid two winnings, the French
man won the BATTLE, the Briton won
the RACE."
Extract of a letter to the Editor, fron,
liyn-.efborough (South Carolina) 'Jul)
If you had hired two asses, each ladet
with two panniers of recommendations,eu
loginms, and certificates of approbation,
and fenc them into this country, it uoulc
not more effectually have eltablifhed tin.
circulation and reputation of your paper,
than the brayings of and' , u hi
have recently traversed the state, vocife
rating and uttering execrations againit it.
It 111 uft: be something mortifying to rhef.
gentlemen, that their malicious effufion
have conflantly operated directly contra.}
to what they intended, so that it is reason
able to suppose the people in general confi
finer all they fay a fort of witches pray
er, which when read backwards contaim
bleflings iiiflead of enrfes."
On the 3d of Augtifl, arrived at New
port the British ship Catherine, William
James Davis, mailer, mounting 4 iron
and some of wood. She was bound from
Jamaica toNew-\ork, with freight, and a
Dumber of pail'engersj byt failing ia
a Brit'fli fr'gite off Sandy-Hook, and learn
ing that the French frigate Ambuscade wa s
at New-York, Davis thought proper t(
bear away for Newport. Ihe paffeng. r
inform, th.it' some rune previous to their
ioeakiug the iv. itiih frigate, they fell in wit
an American veflel, bound from Cape
Francois to Baltimore, having on board
150 French pafiengers, and that from this
veiiel D.tvis took two bags of money, fai.'
to contain between 6 and 7060 dollars, sup
poling it co be French property. As he
was not provided with a commiflion, his
conduit became a Subject of conversation
* lt Newport—and fearing he should be flop
ped, on VV'ednefday night t)ie 7th, flipt his
cables, and put to sea, leaving the pas-
Sengers ashore, one of whom had freight
on board to a large amount.
I he escape of this pirate from Newport
has occasioned several queries in the Rhode -
liland papers, tending to excite an opinion
ih it some part of Davis's plunder had been
applied in procuring bail, to which he was
not leg.illy admifliole, and towards pre
venting a guard being put on board his vef
lel—wr a pursuit made, after it was ioune
he had quitted the harbour.
"The challenge sent by the Captain of the
•ofton to citizen B->mpard, is a linking
(peciinen of the bullying' , fangu n iry dispo
sition or the Britiiii nation.—What Thar
that was influenced by the common feel
nigs of humanity, would wifli to expose
the lives of hundreds of ins men, in an en
gagement, which could a.nfwer no othei
[>urpofe,than to gratify a fooiifn, ridiculou:
ambition.—Would finy man that regardec
the happ'mefs of his honest tar\, wanton})
lacrifice them, and at this hot season of the
year, fi'fter them to be mangled merely tc
difplw a lavage specimen of his courage r
Blufli at your barbarity.
1 he conduit of the Captain of the B >f
ton, lerve> ;o encreafe that disgust whicli
To generally prevails against the Britilh.
1 hey are conlidered as a haughty, domi-
infoJent, sanguinary nation ; and
would, if it was in their power, tyrannize
aver the world.
Not withstanding, a few among us ma)
new a difpolltion to befriend them, ycl
heir motives are so evident, that they de
eat their own pt-irpofes."
Extra# of a letter from Barcelona, dated
6th June.
" The Spanish fleet is just returned here
ifter having taken the Jfland of St. Peter,
ind another small one adjoining, w hen it
eturned to the Sardinians; drove ashore
ind burnt a French frigate, & has brought
leie another, of 36 guns and i4ooprifon
?rs, who Surrendered at discretion. with
out the lofa of a man on either fide."
Accounts from Nova Scotia fay, that
Admiral Gardner's fjuadron were dailv
?xpe£ted at Halifax, to {fay the hurricane
eafon in that port. Letters from the Well
Indies, however. afTert that Said Squadror
was lying at St* Kitts the 26th of July, anc:
; v,, re to fail for England, as convoy to *
aeet of 100 fail of merchantmen, on the
3 1 ft.
" We are informed (fays the Kentucky
Gazette, of July 6) that fifteen Jiundrec
volunteers a. e to be immediately raised ii:
Lhisftate, a?id that thegeneral and held of.
ficers, who are to command them, are al
ready appointed."
On f rida* An 9 citizen Genet, miniftei
from the French Republic, visited the
French veflt 1 of war, in the port of New.
\ ok, including the Ambuscade-, fromeac]
as which he received a national salute.
A i eport circulates, from Baltimor, tiiat
orders have been received from the con
vention of Cape Francois, directed to gov
Galbaud. now in New-York, to arrest the
commifiionersSauthonax and Polverel, anc
lend them to prance. A later arrtval how
uver, makes no mention of tnis circum
itance ; but inform > that the negroes have
joined the Spaniards against the commifli
oners, rhe fo.mer of whom it was though!
would soon be in poiMon of the whole is
land. [Doubtful. J
Letters from Halifax fay. that the ladiei
of that town gave a splendid ball to captaii:
Courtney and his ofheers previous to their
failing ; anc) that they promised the crew
ten guineas each, it they brought the Am
buscade into that port !
The Cologne Gazette llates in a letter,
dated P ais,May 29th, that 2,000 roya lifts
had made an attempt to attack Cherbourg
by land, while a vefTel of eighteen gum
was to attack it by sea; but that 2,00 c
patriots, with 40 pieces of cannon, having
marched against 'them, they were forced
to retire. The patriots obtained poflefiion
of a port folio which a royalilt had throwr
into the sea, and contained the correspon
dence of the citizens of Cherbourg. Fif
teen (hips of the line had proceeded from
Brest to L'Orient and Rochefort, to meet
a fleet of homeward bound Weft-Indiamen
to convoy them fafe into port.
It can no longer be a dispute, that the
Boston was expedited on purpole to fall in
with the Ambuscade, the mailer of a veflel
arrived at Newport from Jamaica, having
Spoken with Captain Courtney, of the fn
gate Bolton of 32 guns previous to the en
gagement, who informed him, that he had
positive or diet s to cruije hear the found un
til faprntyith the French Ambiu -
• • -h If.iv.ng been further (aid, in the
; " ;f l.oflon, that Uie Bolton frigate
... .yc .it the Hook, and .hat the com
' tr t,u "P a challenge to captain
» al " ' ot »he Amhuftide, and intor.n
that he Ihould be there three days
waiting for him, a Bolton correfponden:
emai ked—7 hat though the Hoilon stand?
i the court regiiter ai about tl.e lame rate
is the Ambuscade, yet ic is probable, as the
was fitted out for the express purpose ol
HV't.rfg the Ambuscade, that flic has taker
'"board much heavier cannon than (he uf
tially carries. Without doubt tl.e Boftoi
.is been preparing for iliis engagement foi
A eeks pa ft; it therefore /-Views a cowardice
11 the captain, to give the captain of tilt
Ambuscade but three days notice, to attack
i ll'ip that has employed the whole town o:
Halit. x (or so long a time to get undei
ivay." (Niw-Yo> k Journal.)
i he toast ot this (Jay in all the republi
an circles at Boflon is, " The virtuou:
md independent jury of Pennfyivunia, \vh(
acquitted Henfield."
On Sunday 1 a( t Citizen Bompard vifitec
1 lie admiral's )!■ ip, the Jupiter, at New-
oik. Same day,he visited the governor
ai.d on both occ. Hons was complimentec
with Salutes. 7 lie calm bravery of thi
i.fficer, commands the refpc£t and atten
tion of every true American. It is noi
true, as lias been reported, that he 'na.
been in the lart war prisoner to Captair
Courtney. As an officer, lie has been i.
five actions, all fuccelslul, andnever \va:
taken.
ANTICIPATION!
'• You may expert to hear, and fee, and
feel the eftefts of extraordinary extraft--
jt letters from Bourdeaux, that 43 of the
iepartments of the French Republic, char
ned with the peace and harmony now ex
inn;* iu I ngland, in coufequence of the
eforms eftecled by the present parliament,
u.ve resolved to have a limited monarchy,
md 110 doubt but the king, defender of the
aith, will have the liberty of placing one
>f his f.-»ns on the throne of that empire;
this news will make ; mends for the dif
;race of the Bolton frigate. The infur
jents in Britanny are carrying all before
them !"
Communications from unknown CorreJ
po/idents.']
t. It is an incontestable truth that r he
virtues of the citizens conflitute the most
i;|ppy dispositions that can be def.rcd by
1 jull and wife government. 7 his tl.en af
ords a certain index from which the nation
nay judge of the intention of those who
govern. If they endeavour to render the
people happy and prgfperous, their views
ire pure and upright. But if they spread
1 corruption of manners, a love of luxury,
uid promote the ereftingof magnificei.". a.n!
.odly palaces lor the officers of govern
ment, and excite to other ruinous expen
ds—the people ought to take care of these
jorruptors, tor they endeavour to purchase
flares, in order to rule over them in an
irbitrary manner.
a. 7 he happiness of a state depends upon
the wildom with which it is governed, not
upon the licentious adminillration of those
who, cloathed with purple and power,
make their own will the law.
<1 U E R Y.
3. Altho' the 1 ncorporated companier
who are unjultly taking polfeilion of our
highways and public rivers, are not to en
joy the titles of the nobility or princes ol
Europe, will not the exclnlive privileges
granted to such companies render then
squally obnoxious and injurious to the
People?
4- 1 here is fcarcelv au avenue which
leads to the source of specu
lation but what has been ex imined with
microscopic exactness within three or fom
years p.ift. The Hotel Lottery, which we
wereinformed was designed for public util
ity, and which ought surely to be conducted
on a plan nor enveloped by chicane—ha
been grasped by the niercileis paw of fpe
filiation ; and in the vicinity of Philadelphia
one dollar is 2tlded to the price of the
tickets, and I have been informed two in
.mother place—it the drawing commences
it the appointed time, the commissioners
will efrape crimination ; but flionld it be
pofrponed,it will doubtlels jult grounds
for conlidering it in its molt favourable con -
firuiti--n, as one of the intricate winding:
in the hibyrintb of manoeuvring.
5. A paragraphed in ttie General Adver
tiser of the 13th inliant, animadverts 011
a piece in the National Gazette of Saturday
lall, by flily insinuating, as follows:
"It ought to be remembered, however,
that there is no similarity between the
" two cases, the situation of the twa conn
" tries, and the circumstances, being en
" tirely different. Without making an}
" other comment, it will be fufficient to
" observe, That there was no Treaty of
*' Peace ■ >ift -«g between France and Eng
" laud, and they w ere the avowed ene
" mies of each other, time immemorial."
I suppose this writer thinks there is no
fimila.uy between the Britifl. empire,
loaded with an enormous debt, epprelied
peasantry, lorded over by fpirimals and
temporais, the land net fufficient to fup
portits discontented inhabitants; and the
Houriflung territory of the United State;.
" nil il livlit Veluvh is dailv dißtnifiung,
having neither lords nor dnVejj nor an^
burthen, except a bunch like the Camel's,
with a few ' uiftrunientauties' 0 n its back,
which helps it to bear its burthen with,
more oflenlibility, tile overplus of its pro
duce lupporting a great pnrt ofCanada, the
..leek nation, the Weft-India islands, and
the countries ot the principal maritime
powers in Europe,—< no fimilarlty'!' The
peasantry of England, and the yeomen of
the United States, the former ignorant,
naught), and brutal, the latter enlighten
-I's!, sensible and rational 'No treaty nf
/dace, by this aflertion, we are led to be
lieve that a cefidtion ol hostilities only ex
ilted from the defeat ofßraddock, in the
wi Idernefsof America, to the recommence
ment ot attack on the French frigate La
Belie Poule, during the late American war.
hat the iolemnity ot the ratification of"
peace at V erlailles and London, thetefla
tion ol Canada, &c. were efno effect, and
ought not to be recognized at this time of
day as having ever existed. That peace
was not proclaimed at London on the ioth
dayot J' i-bruary, 1763, but ' neutrality.'
7 hat they \\ ere the avowed enemies of
each other time immemorial"is not a good
argument th.it the citizens of the United
Mates, and fubje£lsof England were not
" 'ends, but avowed enemies of each
other about ten years ago. That the im
memoriality of their hatred is on the ad
vance, and will never cease until the slates
are reannexed to the Britilli Empire, or a
. eciprocity of good offii.es 011 the part_uf
Britain will commence by furrenderinu the
Western Polls.
_'' le P ol ?tical piece signed
J hiieuthys, in our la(t, Line 54 from the
beginning, for ' Heavenly'— read heav'nly r
i <1 in line ilt of the lalt paragraph, for
' was, read ' were.'
') 11 a late tut/movable en^ngemeyiT*
IJ ESOLV'D for a chace all Frenchmen
to face,
B»!d Boston from Halifax fail'd,
With a full flowing Iheet the pride of the
fleet,
No veflel fiie saw but (he hail'd :
With Courtney, commander, who never
did fear,
Nor return'd from a fight with a flea in
his ear.
\s they lleer'd for the Hook, each fwor»
by his liook
No pray'rs fliould their vengeance retard
They won.(l plunder and burn, " they
Would never return
Unattended by captain Bompard !!!"
So Gaul can withltand us ; when once we
arouse—
We'll drown the monfieurs in the walh of
our bows!,
A fail now appear'd, when tow'rd her they
fteer'd,
Kach crown'd with his liberty-cap ;
Under colours of France did they boldly
advance
Vnd a small privateer did entrap.
I he time siay have been when their na
tion was brave
But now they prefer to cajole and de
ceive.)
Arriv d at the spot where they thought to
dispute,
Thus Courtney obferv'd, in a heat,
" Since fighting's our trade, their bold
Ainbufcade
Must fink, or be fore'd to retreat :
Teli captain Bompard, if his stomach's for
war
*1 advaiu efi om his port and engage a true
tar."
BpUI captain Bompard, when this challenge
he heai d,
Tho' his fails were unbent from the
yards,
his topmasts flruck down, and his men
lialf in town :
Vet sent back hi l - humble regards—•—
ihe challenge accepted—all hands, warn'd
011 board.
Bent the.r fails, swore revenge, and the
frigate unmoor'd.
The Boston, at sea, being under her lee,
1' or wind war J manoeuvred in vain,
7 ill night coming on, both lay by till dawn
i lien met on the watery plain :
The wind at north-ea'ft, and a beautiful
day.
And the hearts of the Frenchmen in trim
f or the fray.
[ v he remainder in our next. J
WARKAN T F. D "
Bouhing-Clolhs Mill-Jioncs,
For la eat jSo. NorthSeconci-ftrtet, by
OLIVER EVANS,
HO hath viewed the Cioths snd Stones In a
great many of the be ft mi. is in different parts
of /imeiica, and procured /amples of the cioth?*
with an account now they proved 3 an i collected
the opinion and judgment of many of the most
expe< ienced millers refpe&ing the quality of cloths
and ftcne for the diffeisnt purposes : therefore, if
the do not prove good, and fuiteble for the pur
poses 'or which he feils them, they will be re
ceived again, others delivered in their (lead, and
the cefls of carriage paid. Diafts of the best and
simplest plans for bouiting, and best and fimphffc
conftrutftiens of mills now in use, will be (hewed
to the pnrchafers, if xc^uired.
J7> fa. (, f.From a Correfpondcnt.
The Wish
OGTVE me heaven in your indulg
ent care,
A model!, fai'hfnl, <snd discerning fair,
Then place me on a throne, or in a cot
I'll ever be contemed with my lot.
Secure :n friendfhip's tolken bands we'd
rove, »
Participating sweets of mutual love.
All anxious care from my fond bread
fhouid fly
Nor grief be fuffer'd to fuffnfe the eye ;
Udt social virtues in our 'ives should i)lend,
Joy with ut measure ! rapture without
end!
7- A - N -
From the Connecticut Courant.
TvIUCH has been said and written on
the fiibjctl of the French revolution.
Americans appear 'o be deeply concerned
for the fate of the French ; as the proj;refs
•of liberty in Furope seems to depend
much upon the event of the •present
■struggle. A great proportion of Anaeri
cans however lament the fate of i.ouis,
the late king; and almofl all parties con
cur in ccnfuring the outrageous proceed
ings of the mobs in various parts of France.
"Yet few, I believe, of the people of this
■countrv, even of the more learned, know
the ex'ent of the abufc of the old govern
ment, or the wretchedness of the great
body of the people. The severe and
mullifariou despotism exercised over the
pe dantry of ihat immense country under
the monarchy, if it will not jullify every
outrage,will at lead apologize tor the moil
<lefperate efforts of the people to rid them
selves at once of the tyrants and the tyran
ny. To enable the people of America to
form some cdimate of the necefiity of a
■reformation of government, and to judge
■with candor o' the violences committed
ia France in p ofecuting this business, I
beg leive to c mmunicate to the public
a (ho: t abftraft of that fyllem of despo
tism, which has been overturned by tht
French under which the tnafs of tht
•people in that country have groaned foi
ages. The fubltance of what is hert
offered is taker, from a writer of unquef.
tionable authority.
1. The B llile, that engine of oppref-
during some reigns had been filled
■with prisoners, who without even know
ing the cause or author or their arrest,
been doomed to darknefo and chains
for life. At some periods defpotif.n hat
Tifen <o high, that blank lettres de cat
chet have been feld, to bi tiilcil up with
names at the plenfure of the purchaser.
2, But Letlres de Catchet tho' formi
dable to individuals, were among the leaji
inllmments of tyranny. Some of tht
heavielt Uxes were levied wholly on the
poorer clajfes of people ; the rich nobility
and clergy being exempt from paying
them. These taxes were colle&ed with
unfeeling rigor by the imendants of gene
ralities and their fub-delcgates, who were
■veiled with absolute authority to enforce
4he collection.—ln addition to this the
inequali y of the duties and taxes was
fucti as to mark an attoni hing degree ol
corruption in the whole fyllem. Some
provinces had, during the exp nfive wars
of former kings purchased an exemption
from the Gabelle or duty on fait—fome
paid a small excise of 8 or 9 livfces on the
100 cwt. and perhaps the very next pro
-vince paid 50 to 60 livres.—Such an
imin nte difference of duty in pr vinces
Jeparated only by a river or perhaps an
imaginary line, encouraged (muggling,
and finuggling was was punished with
unheard of fevetity—-fines, condemnation tc
the galleys, and deatk. A well informed
■writer on finance calculatss (he numbet
of men, w.;meti and children annually
fei.t to the galleys to work like slaves
Cor a breach of the revenue laws, to be
between 3 and 4000 ; whose property
vas feited and confifcated Yet these
■were poor people, guilty of no crime but
that of attempting to smuggle a little fall
for their families, to avoid the monstrous
tax of Bor 10 dollars on the bufliel. Yet
all persons fubjedl to the Taille, in
some provinces, were enrolled and obliged
to buy 7lb. a head of fait annually (ex
clusive of fait for barrelling meat) whether
they wanted it or not.
There were numerous e3!&s for pri -
serving the game which prohibited weed
:ng and hoeing, left the young paitridges
should be rlifturbed; sleeping feed, Sell ft
(lioula injure the m muring with
night foil, left the flavor of the partridges
(hould be injured bv feeding ou the corn
so produced; mowing hay before a-cer
tain time, whih was io la e often-times as
to spoil the crop, and taking away the
fhibble, left the birds should be robbed of
shelter. These capitaineries extended
over 400 leagues of the country, and such
was the tyranny eiercif d in them, that
in the late revolution almoit all dafTes of
people concerted in demanding the sup
predion of them
4. By a barbaronfiy inhuman and op
prelfive law, the people were bound to
grind their corn at their lords mills only,
to prefa their grapes in press and bake
their bread in his oven. Bv means of
this reftriftion, they were often obliged to
wait till their bread was fpailed and their
grapes damaged. Thev were not indulg
ed the privilege of using hand-mills for
grinding their corn ; even in the modern
times tlte barons have ordered the hand
mills of their peasants to be broken, and
have obliged them to purehafs the right
of bruising their buck wheat and barley be
tween two ones.
5 The corvees or police of the roads,
by which the laboring people were called
out to work on the roads at the pleasure
of their mailers, was an engine of extreme
oppri-ffion. Many hundreds of farmers
were ruined annually by it, and 300 were
reduced to beggerv, in filling one vale in
Loraine
6. Nothing could exceed the opprefii
ons suss. red by illegal and arbitrary exer
tions of the judiciary power. Tie judges
ignorant—holding courts in taverns—
dependent on and subservient to the lords
of manors; appeals endless, augmenting
litigations, favoring every fpeaes of chi
cane, ruining the parties by eipences and
loss of time, the provincial parliaments
were unbjufhingly corrupt, intercd was
openly made with them and wocto the man
who had not raoney or a handsome wife to
procure favour.
7. A heavy fine of an eighth, and
sometimes of a sixth was paid at every
sale of property 4 besides a fine at every
change, whether in the direst 1 r collateral
line of deLent. Feudal redtmpfiont, ty -
rannical cuiloms, and arbitrary affeflments
woul fill the catalogue of opprefiion ; hut
the very terms cannot be translated. We
have neither tUe ideas nor words to express
tiiem. I will however jult mention
one feudal right called in French Silence
des grenouilles, by which, when the l dy
of the manor lay in, the peasants were
obliged to beat the wat r in marshy plac
e&! to keep the frogs silent; that the lady
need not be diltutbed. This opprcflive
duty was afterwards commuted to a lum
of money
A man who can coolly refleA on the
Wretchednef3 of 20 millions of peasantry,
fuhjeft to all the foregoing and a 1 undred
other cruel despotic laws or cufloms, and
yet cenuires the outrages of a mob which
murders a single tyrant or burns a chateau
without apologizing in his own mind for
their licentiousness, must be void of prin
:iple or feeling. To whom shall we im.
pute the crime of murders and conflagra
tions ? to the people who are the instru
ments, or their opprefTors who have driv
en them to desperation ? Those who
;hoofe to be served by ill treated ffaves,
n every part of the world, hold their lives
ind properties by a very precarious tenure.
Witnefsthe late cataflrophein St. Domin
jo.
Infurreftions are always cnarged upon
:he insurgents as a crime, and justly, but
:hey are nine times in ten, more imputa
ale to the tyranny of the mailer, than, ta
:he cruelty of the slave. The murder of a
master, and the burning of his house are
recorded in every newspaper, but who re
cords the private fufFerings of the poor
(lave? who hears the t<le of his woe ? of
thousands and thousands of forlorn wretch
es who die beneath the scourge of despo
tism, of the thousands that have died in
France within four years, where is the
register! who knows the fact ? lam no
friend to the violence of a Paris mob
£ deleft every violation of property and
law ; but I am persuaded that Americans
who pronounce positively on the merits or
demerits of parties in France, would be
more sparing of censure, if they were
better acquainted with the whole detail of
fact.
meteorological observations.
July 1793*
D. Hxßarum. Tber, VAnl \lVeatbet
Tuesday, 6. 61 30. 02 77 S. \y.jCloudy.
3', 30- o *>7 W. Fa/-.
Wedntjday, 7. 6 j N. wT fair
3) 30. 1 S3 W. <#0
Tburjduy, S. 6 30. i by s.s.t, jfair
3 29. 95 i' 6 S.S.F.
triday, 9. Oi 29. » 75 s. s.w. C7ca«/y.
3l 29* 85 S. W|/''<a/r.
Saturday, jo. 6, 29. ij 67 VV. /air.
3! 29. 9 82 S. W. do.
ou/iday, jj. 0 30. o 70 5. Yv ,Li nay.
3 30. o S4 w.s. w do.
Monday, la. 6 30. ol 70 W. i dir.
51 30. o{ 87 W. J oo*
To be Sold or Let,
(And of this immediate pojjtjjicn g.ven.)
THAT handlome, well-built three new
huufe, fi;uate on the east fide of south
Fourth-It icet, near the Indian Qjecn, Philadel
phia. This situation is vaiuauie, being in *
central part of the city, and convenient to the
banks and public offices. The house is 25 feei
m front, and, with its offices, extends nearly joc
feet backwards. It has the privilege of an alley
feet wiae' The offices *ie three stories high,
»nd, together with the houle. are built of" brick :
hefe contain five apartments, btfides a wash nouie,
md tout of them have ti»e places, in the dwell
mg houie itfelf, there are nine rooms and eigh.i
fire places ; lix of the rooms are spacious, and aii
lafhionably finished. Tf-e garrets are ceileo : the
lair-cafe is elegant. Theie is a good cellar undei
the whole, and in the yard a pump.
u4nd to be Sold,
730 Acres of unimproved la d,iß miles fom the
:hrivmg town 0/ JJ«»irilburg, PennfyKama. This
'radl lies in a valley, and is said to be very good
arming land. There are one or more mills near
the premiles. The river Juniara is about five
miles diltane ; whence ir is boatable into the Suf
juehanna, and thence to Harii(burg. Alio,
A deferable retreuty or farm, in Newtown, th<
:ounty town or Bucks, Pennfylv2nia j c >ntam
ng neatly 15 acres of lind, natura l, ve.y lich,
and now highly improved. It is surrounded on all
fiJes by public lireets or roads j and may, with
present advantage, be convened into town lots
that would prove 0/ growing importance. 1 here
i a cotnm >dious br ck hwuie upon tie premises,
tvo stories in h ight, having four room, on a
floor, a IpaCious entry or pafldge throughout, at d
a cellar extending under the whole house. It is
well ace mmodated with o t houses. About three
acres are occupied by an orchard of (he b-it graft
ird Newtown pippins r distant from Philadelphia
15 milts j from 1 renton 9 $ from Bristol 11 ; and
is within five miles .»f the river Delaware. The
luuation isextiemely healthy ; the profc-.-fts are
charmingly pidturrfque, and the
affjrds a genteel society*
Besides the above,
*I-wo corner lots in the town, of one acre each,
are oiieieu xor tale, together with about 16 aoes
)\ ex-ell-nt land, half a mile fr >m the t >w,i
andei the best culture and improvement* Twc
it thric of tnele acres are ; n timber*
Lik.wife 19 be S Id.
An eftim&Ule farm of 530 acies, In the anwnt}
)fCh.itei, 39 miles from Philadelphia : 10c acre:
A which a e of the rcheJt bottom. The whole
>f this land tlljoys a kind, ftrongana fertile foil :
is well watered, and admiiably adapted to tht
1 a ft fig of grain and all kinds of itock j at prefcni
th re are nearly 30 acses f madt-m ad w, anc
10 or 30 more of watereJ meadow mav be mad
it pleasure : about 200 aie luxuiiantly covered
a variety of va uable timber. Upon th
arem fes, theie aie a f.i m house, barn, Sec. s
never-tailing llream of good water, and a m -si
apple-orchard covering a'ooui fix acre c
the fruit of a good and lading quality : the pu
hafer may b accommodated wkn all or anv pari
)f the Itock or farming utensils upon thv place,
The position of this farm is important, lying or
>oth fides of the main road, and bounded south
• riy by the road to Philadelphia through Down
ng-town j—whence it is distant 12 or 13 miles :
u)n the north it isbounded by the road to Warwick
r urnace, situate but a few miles diltant. Ai tftij
joint, the premises enjoy a capital stand both foi
» store and tavern, and also an eligible fkua'ion
a village, which would here have fom'
:ommanding advantages, and might be an obje£!
:o any gentlemen wifiiing to found an extenftvc
ind profitable settlement. On the one fide, it
has a direct communication with Dawning')
own j and with the rich and populous fettlemem
>f Coneftogo vailey on the other, both lying with
n a sHort ride of the place. There is alreadv a
narket here for produce at the Philadelphia prices
—the neighbouring iron-works creating a constant
lemand. Plenty of good iimeitone may be had
vithin 5 mile* of the premises,, and a tu
n ;ke use of it will be conveyed by the pioprie.
or if required. In fiiort this farm deserves the
ittention of any person or persons inclined to
ivail thcmfelves of advantages such as those it
yj/fefles.
The title to the several premises are indifpnta
>le«; and the proprietor will warrant to drfer.c
hem. The terms of sale, for all or any of the
Ands, will be made accommodating to the purcha
ers. For farther particular#, apply to the fub
criber, No. 6, south Fourth-ftreer, oral hi«
tore, the corner of Market and Thi.d-llreet j
/hilade'phia.
ROBERT SMOCK.
Aug. IO; j. a. w. t. f.
JUST PUBLISHED,,
And to be fold at the refpettive B > >k Stores ol
Jofepb Crukjbank and Tbimat Dobfon, and mav
be had at tne Piinting office, No. 2C9, Mai
ket-Street ——f Price one eipbtb of a dollar.J
LETTER S,
Adilrefled to the Yeomanry of the
United States:
Containing some Oofervations on Funrii)i%
and Bank Sy!lems\
BY an AMiLiI.iCAN r riIVMER.
PRICE C U P R IJT T.
Dollars. Cents.
(100 Cents make i dollar.)
A.HES, not per ton nc<* fr> r2;4
pearl ditto lj4<l/ei/>c.d
Bacon, flitches per lb Bto oc
(boulders do - Q
Beef, Bolton per barrel ijd
Country do gdttiod.
Beer, American in bottles
including bottles, per doz. jt\ 40c
ditto per barrel dd 67c
Bes wax per lb 2 6c 28c
brandy, Coniac per gal QO c 100 c
common do Soc to 85c
Butter in kegs per b ,2c 130
Cheese, Country per lb 8c 13c
Englilh , 9C
Chocolate 20c
Coal per bufliel a4c
Codfilh per cwt -50! , '^ c
Coffee per lb 14c ,(,c
Copperas per cwt jd6-c
Cordage, American per cwt yd 6 c Bd.
Cotton perib 2 6c 28c
Flax per lb ~c 7 2C
Flaxfeed perbufli. <,oc
Flour fuperfine per barrel srt 5;
common ic ] ;oe:
Bur-middlings, belt 4dsoc
Meal Indian per bbl. id 52c
Rye, do 2d 40C
Gin, Holland per cafe 4 d
per gallon 80c 90c
Ginseng 20C 24t -
Gunpowder, Fine glazed per qr e 4^
Grain, Bartey per but! el ul
Bed (helled per bulliel 2d 67c
Buckwheat per bulliel 40c
Indian corn
[erfey, do
°ats g JC
Rye 60c
Wheat we to i»—
S ims per lb co IOC
Hlemp, imported per ton nod 1461] 67c
Vmerican per lb 4c jci
Hides, raw perib 9c ire
-lopi zße
lo'iejr perib JCJ .
nriigo, Carolina perib id id 10s
French id 2 cc id 67c
roil, Bar per ton g 4 <n
Cartings per cwt 4 ( i
Nail-rods per ton joid 11c
P'S 2«*
Sheet
[rone, f.d 13^1330-
Lard hogs perib "q C , oc
Leather. foal perib 17c 20c
•lyr'le wax perib 12c.
'•Tolalies pergallon 49c 30c
Mnftard, flour, in but. per doz; jd 20c
fecoiid quality, per doz. 87c
N r lils, 8d lod 12d and 2cid per lb; 10c
0:1. Linseed per gallon 66tt
-Olive 8 7C
-per cafe 2d 50c
Pepper per lb 38c
Pimento 19c
Pitch per bbl id 73c 2c£
.'orter per calk jd 33c
London per doz id 60c
• ■ \mer. bot. inclu. id 60c
>rk Btirli >gton, per bbl evd
Lower county 13d.
Carolina 9d
'.ice per cwt 3fl4Jc.
Rum. Antigua pergal id
Barbadoes 87c
Country, N. E. 62c
Jamaica rd 12c
viftpetre per cwt I4d 33c
Salt, Alltim, per bu(h 33c
Cadiz 25c
Lilbon 27c
Liverpool 3;c
snaksroot perib 20c 421 c
Snuff. per doz. bot- 4*! ,u (.oc
per lb 33. 4 o>
Soap, Brown per lb 6c
White 8c
Starch per lb 7c
sugar, Havaunali, white, peril* 14c 16c
Brown 10c iic
Muscovado per cwt 9c r>c
Lumpper lb 21c
Loaf, lingle refined, 22c
double ditto I.lc
Fallow, refined, per lb 19G
Far, New-Jersey 24 gal per bbl id
Carolina, 32 gal 2#
Tea, Hyftrn per lb 93c i«f 2S<;
Souchong 50c 93c
Bohea 33c 36c
Tobacco. Tames River, best 4d 331:
Inferior 3d 33c
Old 4<167c
Rappahannock 3d 33c
Coloured Maryland s<\ 33c 8d
Dark „ 2d 40c
Long-leaf 2d 40c
La(lern-(lior» sd 2d s;c
Carolina, new 2d 7c 3d
Old 3d 33c
Turpentine per btfl 2d 33c
Wine, Madeira,.p. F- 17 f>d 226 d
Lisbon i2od 126J"
Teneriffe p*r ga* 63c
Sherry 9oc to id 210
PRINTED IT
CHILDS and S W A IN E.
AT THEU »rncs NO. 109, Ht C. H.-5T A £ftX 4
HiAi fifth ;tr *. tt„ ;