Numb. 37 of Vol. ll.]
Report of the Secretary of the Treasury, re
lative to the Loans negotiated under tilt
A!ts of the i,th and \ith of Augujl, 1790.
[Continued from our laft.~\
THF, feconci cafe of delay relates to the
second loan. It was occaftoned by a
determination to suspend the orders for its
application, till information was received,
of its having been contracted for.
One motive to this determination has
been already intimated ; namely, the yet
untried and immature Hate of onr fifcal
arrangements. The general reasoning 011
this head, was strengthened by an occur
rence altogether unlooked for, which dif
clofed-itfelf on the 23d of Atiguft 1790.
eleven days after the ri'ing of Congref:. ;
an occurrence which they had no: con
templated in their pecuniary dispositions.
I allude to the commencement of an Indi
an war ; which was announced in a letter
from governor St. Clair, dated 011 the
above-mentioned day ; the progreiHve ex
tent and conf-.-quences of which could oi
course not be forefeen. Under futh' cir
cumftauces, I judged it f ur the public in
terest and fafety to hold the refourec,
which the proipcft of a loanprefented, un
der the power of the treasury. till advice
Ihould be received of the actual i.ntitution
of the loan ; with intention then to dif'
pose of it as ihould appear advifeable, un
der a better matured view of our pecuni
ary liination and prospects.
Hence the delay \\ inch attended the ap
plication of the second loan ; the firlt in
fact that originated subsequent to the laws
for borrowing. But after advice had been
received of its having been set on foot, no
time was 101 l in converting it will due
dispatch to its proper uses. There was on
ly, not an anticipation of its application.
As early as May 24th, 1791, I wrote a let
ter to Mr. Short (a copy of which is in
pofleffion of the hou(e) empowering him
to apply the proceeds of all future toans,
as they Ihould accrue, in payments to
# f »- tc tS'eretn
were, or afterwards Ihould be privioujfy
and specially reserved. This arrangement
was calculated to obviate the inconveni
cnce of leaving the proceeds of the loans,
for any conliderable time unemployed.
At the period of making it, and not soon
er, the public profpe£ts appeared to me
fufficientiy unfolded, to render a general
and permanent dilpolitiou free from ha
zard. This iftftruction preceded in due
season all the loans subsequent to that of
March 1791.
Whatever delay, therefore may have at
tended fucceedirig inveltirents for paying
the French debt, is not attributable to this
department: And I think it will not ap
pear, that any has been incurred, in res
pect to the funis which were destined for
the public ferviee here. In judging of this
point it will be proper to observe, that a
latitude of fix months, for making thtir
payments, has been reserved to the money
lenders, though with liberty to make
them earlier. It was however neceflary
for the treasury to regulate it's bills ac
cording to the possible delay, kit they
lliould not meet adequate funds. The
general policy adopted was to let them fall
upon the rear of each loan ; this giving a
freer course for early payments to France,
and belt conciliating a certainty of funds
for answering the bills, with as little dou
ble interell as pofiible-
It-will appear, that notWithstanding tile
arrangement which was made, a confidera
bletime intervened between the two lafl
payments tn France, while there were
fundtin hand waiting for employment. It
may be expected, that the causes of this
procrastination, though as I have said not
imputable to this department, Ihould be
Unfolded to the House. Particular circuin
flances however induce me to confine my
' Jelf to slating generally, that the delay pro
ceeded, in the lirlt place, from an expec
tation given to Mr. Short and Kept up from
time to time by the French minilter ol
marine, that a plan would be adopted, tc
which a decree of the National Aflfcmblj
Was requilito, for converting a large fun:
intofiipplies for St. Domingo—which Mr.
Short concluded justly mult come out oi
the foreign fund, and consequently suspend
ed its application in Europe.—ln the se
cond place, from a desire to fettle, previ
onfly to further payments, a definitive rule,
bv which the monies paid, Ihould be liqui
dated and credited to the United States.
Both the one and the other appears tc
have been procraflinated from period tc
period, oy the disordered state of French
By P. FuR ENEAU: Publijhed. Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
WEDNESDAY, March 6, 1793.
affairs, and to have finally ifined contrary
10 expeilation. It would be an uunecef
fary commitment of my opinion to declare,
how far the delay appears to me to have
beenjuftified by the causes—But being led
by the occasion to take notice oi it, I think
11 improper to fend it abroad, liable per
haps tomifconftruilion, withoutobferving,
that the inducements, appear to me, to
have been weighty—that the delays natur
ally ;:ew out of the circumstances, and
that I am entirely persuaded of the good
ness of the motives which governed The
correspondence before the Senate, con
tains the particulars of the tranfaflion.
Having pointed out the iiiftances of ina
tefial delay which happened, and the caus
es of them, it remains to Orate what cir
cumstances there are to counterbalance the
iofs 011 that account.
These circumstances are of two kind
1. Gain by exchange in the sale of bills
drawn by the treasury and upon the higli
:r rate of intertit on the credit: wifki;
were g'.venfor those bill , than was paya
ble 0.1 the fund upon which they were
drawn.
2. Gain by exchange on the payments to
France.
According to my calculation, founded
Dn the bell information extant', the real
jar of the metals between the United
states and Amsterdam, makes a current
guilder equal to 35 89-100 ninetieths of a
ioilar. The lowift rate which has been
obtained lor the bills has been 36 4-11
linetieths, with an allowance oflix.y days
:redit without interest. Makinga dertnc -
ion for the interest the bills werellili fold
ibove the true- par-: In some inrtances they
lave been fold as high aj 40 cents and 7
ilills per guilder, with interell: for the
.vhole term of the credit given.
The rate of interest for the credits al
owed upon the bills was 6 per cent, the
nean interest paid upon the fund 5 per
.ent. producingconfequently again of one
>er cent.
Witb ti> to ?rA?.ce,
f the current rate of exchange between
?aris and Amsterdam at the moment of
;ach remittance or payment were to gov
ern, a large profit would result to the Uni
ed States. But cei ta : n equitable conlid
■rations will produce deductions, which
vV ill greatly lefi'en this: advantage ; yet mak
ng a liberal allowance for them, therein
ground to calculate that a Paving may be
nade in this particular, more than fuffici
■nt to indemnify for the loss of interclt.
Hence any politive advantage which will
lave been otherwise gained, will probably
3e undiminifhed by hat circurfiftance.
I proceed in the next place, to state the
.'iews which prevailed refpeiling the funis
:hat have been from time to time drawn
"or ; the purposes they have hitherto an
swered, and the further advantages to be
;xpe£ted from r he measure.
The direst object of all the films drnw n
or prior to Juiy 1792, was the purchase ot
:he debt. A collateral consideration which
operated in the firft stages ot drawing, has
ilfo ment'.ined. It has likewise been
luted, that til. purchases of the debt
■re to be ascribed to the inftrnmentnlity
jf the fund d rived from the loans. Tiii:
dea shall low be explained.
Two milt ;kes appear to have influenc
ed the impreflions which have been enter
rained 1 relation, direiUy or indirectly to
this fubjeit. ! irft, it seems to have been
ill alorgforgotten, that a conliderablepart
as the duties is always outstanding, on ac
count of the credits which are given :
whence the afiertion, that the finking fund
iias continually overflowed from domellio
resources. Second, it seems to have been
taken for granted that tiie proct eds of the
Loans have remained apart, r'iftinft fron:
the mass of the money in the Treasury :
while in truth the course of the bufincf;
lias been to turn them over to the Treasur
er by warrants as they have been received
Co as to form a part of the aggregate, fron
time to time appearing in his hands and :i
iiis accounts. The banks have been the
agents employed for felling the bills.
Sometimes warrants on qcconnt have is
sued upon them, for the funis accruing
from the files, at other times the warrant:
have been deferred till the whole proceed:
of any parcel have been received and tlu
accounts of the banks fettled at the treasu
ry; as the state of the treasury has hap
pened to render the one or the other mo!
convenient.
The banks of North America and New-
York, were the agents for the sale of a!
the bills, which were fold prior to Apri
r792. amounting to 1,006,526 dollars and
36 cents. Of this sum 361,391 dollars and
34 cents, were passed over to the Treafnr
er in 1-91—327,136 dollars and 22 cents
1 1 M.-.rch 1792, and 140,000 dollars in June
f >llo\ving—the rehdue having remained as
heretofore [fated, in depolit with the bank
of North America upon a special consid
eration. This is exclusive of certain bills
turnijlv:d for the use of the department of
Stated amounting to 78,766 dollars and 67
cents.
Tht i-om tinder of the bills which have
been fold beginning in April 1792, were
fold by the b.i ik of the United .-tales, and
irs branches at New- V ork and Baltimore-
The kccoi: t . f the files had just been
madaout t I'etrl erne fit, when the present
enqnii v!> 1 but warrants had not yet
1 flu .■ ■ ,»l v; the proceedin the trea
u.-y. It \vi:: be remarked that from the
L'rmi o: redit allowed, they Only began
co be rcce.v. Me in October la I ; the 20th
;lay of which month the firif return made
by tilt* bank (hews a sum of 127,225 dol
lars aid j . cents received ; and that the
caMeftion had not been completed when
the accounts of files were rendered.
Th. . e are dfferent views of the fub
jeft which will enable the House to per
ceive' that the possession of the fund in
que (Hon was neceifary to enable the trea
fliry to furniih the means of making all
the pur chafes which were niaile prior to
July 1702.
It i true, that there was a ftirpius of re
venue to the end of the year 179°* equal
to 1, -4,656 dollars and 40 cents, which
was approp, iited to purchases of the debt;
and from the credits then given upon the
Juties, this surplus would naturally come
into the treasury in the course of the year
'*?!•
Hut the legislature forefeeing that the
revenue of 1791, from the fame cause,
:ould .not actually be in the treasury, with
in that year, to face the appropriations, up
jn it„ which it is to be observed were
if:" ■ -d) '
erted a clause in the law, appropriating
:he surplus of 1790, to the purchase of the
Jebt, which authorized a reservation of so
nuch of that surplus as might be neceifary
:o make the payments of intereit during
1791 ; in cafe of a deficiency in the re
ceipts into the treasury, on account of the
current revenue of the year.
It will appear to t.ie House, upon a re
currence to the Tresfurer's quarterly ac
count, ending the 30th of September, 179 1 '
that the balance of cash then 011 hand was
562,233 dollars and 99 cents.
At that time there had been paid into the
treasury, upon warrants, from the proceeds
us the bills drawn upon the foreign fund
361,391 dollars and 34 cents. Consequent
ly, the balance of cadi, had it not been
for that auxiliary, would have been only
300,842 dollars and 65 cents; conlidering
the whole balance in the treasury as repre
lenting an equal sum ot the proceeds of
the bills.
Even in a time of complete pcace, in a
country where a small extent of monied
capital'forbids a reliance upon large pecu
niary aids to he suddenly obtained—a pru
dent idminiftrator of the finances could
not feel entirely ateafe, with a less sum at
all times in the certain command ot the
treasury, than 500,000 dollars, for meeting
current dema ids and extra exigencies,
which 111 the affairs of a ..nation are every
moment to be expected. Rut with a war
:ictually on hand, and a pofitbility of its ex
tendon to a more serious length, he would
be inexcusable, in leaving himfelf with a
lefsfunh at command ; unlets from an im
practicability of doing otherwise. It would
be always his duty to combine two conli
derations—the chance of extra call's for
money, and a uofiibility of some failure in
the receipts which were expected. De
rangements of various kinds may happen ill
the commercial circle, capable of inter
rupting for a time the pun£fual course of
payments to the treasury. It is neceifary
to a certain extent to be prepared for such
casualties
But during the year 1791, there was a
circumilancp, which operated as an rc!di
tiontd reason for keeping a reipeilabie sum
always on hand. The loans of the domeffic
debt were going on till the lait of Septem
ber of that year; while at the fame time,
theintereli wasin a course of payment —It
was therefore always uncertain what fur.i
would be payable at the end ot a quarter ;
this depending 011 the eagernefi or back
vardnffs. oi the public creditors in bring
ing forward their ftibfcript.ons, or thsir
[Total No. 141.]
claims as non-subscribers. The omifJTons,
at the end of a preceding quarter, might t>s
expected to fall upon a subsequent one —
and it was neccifary to be prepared for t Mat
poiiibility ; of course to keep in hand a 1 r.r
ger fund for contingent demands. Thh
necellity extended to the termination of
the period for receiving subscriptions ; be
cause the treasury was to be prepared on
the supposition, that the whole of the ;lo
meftic debt would then be in a (late to re
ceive interelt either as JubJcribed or uvjvb
f'cribei. But this did not in fail happe fi —
A part of the fuins which were prelected
were crouded into the last days of the
quarter and uere too late for a dividend
.i conliderable sum remained ultimately ii*
i farm, which according to the terms of
the provision did not intitlei it to inurelt,
either asJubfcribed or ■&swtjubjcribt:<\ debt.
Hence the cadi in the treasury on the ift
as October 1791. was by a conliderable sum
rreaterthan was to have beep counted up
jn or than might have happened.
The concluiion which results from tlia
7 oregoing observations is this—that ths
jurchafes which preceded the ill of Octo
ber 1-91, and which amounted to $99,984
dollars and 23 cents in specie could not
lave been hazarded, 'put for the aid of the
inns which had actually accrued from the
proceeds of the bills and the expectation of
:!iofe which were to accrue from the yet:
uncollected proceeds of others.
Had it not been f fir this aid, the treasury
would have been Iclt more bare, th,.n was
,'onliUent with the leciirity of public credit
ind the certain e/Xecution et the public
ervice.
There is however a later period inths
date of the treasury, which will more com
pletely illuftra.te the idea intended to be
eltablifiied. This is the 2d <of July, 1792.
On that d-jy, the balance of call) in the
treasury, comprehendi jig theclepofits in all
the banks, and including a sum of 200, cc?
ilollars, received 011 loan of the bank cf the
United States, together with a sum of
10,900 dollars in .bills drawn upon do
iiietKc funds, tlie proceeds of which had
not been received, was 623,133 dollars anJ
61 cents.
Prior to this period a further sum of
545,902 dollars and 89 tents arising from
the sales of foreign bills had been placed in
the treasury, by warrants, making with
the former films placed there from the
fame fiiurce, 907,294 dollars anil 23 cents.
Had it not been for this auxiliary, and
that of the loan from the bank, the treasu
ry would then have been in arrear 484,1(0
dollars and 62 cents. It therefore necei
farily follows, that for the purchases 11
that period, which amounted in specie tn
942.672 dollars and 54 cents, at leaf:
484,160 dollars and cents mult have
come from the foreign fund.
But when it is conlidered, for the rea
sons which have been Hated, and which
will hereafter be fortified by others, tend
ing as I conceive, to give them conc'ufive
force, that the sum in the treasury at the
period in question, was barely w hat ought
to have been there for fafcty, and for a clue
fii'pply to current demands—lt will follow
that the whole or nearly the whole of the
purchases which were made previous to'
[illy 1799, were made by the means or in
fh umentality of the foreign fund.
A (imilar view, extended to the subse
quent quarter, will exhibit this point in a.
(till clearer light. The balance then in
the treasury, including a further loan from
the bank of 100,000 dollars, was ouly
420,914 dollars and 51 cents.
What then, it may be allied, became of
the surplus of revenue to the end of i-qo ?
\\ hat was the office performed by that fund
during the period in queltion ?
The artfwer is, that it served ex.i Sly the
purpose which was anticipated by the le
gifiature. It came in aid of the current;
receipt for fatisfying the current expendi
ture of 1791, with particular reference to
the intcrefi. of the debt- This will ealilv
be comprehended when it is recollected
that tlie appropriations made during 1:91,
upon the revenues of that year, ai .! fume
fm'all furplulfes of antecedent appropria
tions, amounted to three millions fix hun
dred and thirty-seven thousand and.-ftfty
tlgh: dollars and thirty-four tents ; thas?
the revenues themselves amounted to no
more than three million five hundred and
fifty-three thoufard. one hundred und
ninety-five dollars and eighteen cents; a id
that at the end of 1:91, there were Out
ft a tiding iii bond? for tie duties 011 imports,
besides the chiet part of the proceeds of the
duties on (pints Uiftilled wit-lsiatlie VeiuiStates, then :ilfo uncollefled. 1,828,269
ollars and 28 cents.
Oa t!»is point i'kcwife, of the surplus of
revenue tothe end of 1790.it is prel'umeable
a mifapprehenfioti has been entertained,
It Teems to have been supposed, that thai
surplus, as well as the proceeds of the fo
reign fund,'"have been kept separate and
diitinflt from the common tiiafs of the mo
nies appearing from time to time ty be in
the treasury. It lias been already oblerv
ed, that this was not the cafe with regard
to the foreign fund. It is now proper to
add. that it has 110 c been the cafe, either,
with regard to the surplus in question.
That surplus, as received by the collettors
of the customs, has regularly palled into
the treasury, and appears in the quarterly
accounts of the treasurer for the periods tu
which they relate.
it is ihe course of the treasury, resulting
from the conllitution of the department,
star ail monies from whatever source, to be
brought into it, to conllitute an aggre
gate ; fubjedt to the difpolitions prescribed
by law. The monies to be employed in
the lfliking fund, have consequently only
been separated, as they have been called
foir, for attual inueflment• The only ex
ception to this, relates to that part of th«
finking fund, which is created by the inte
rest of the debt purchased. This has beei:
included in the quarterly dividends, anc
covered by the warrants, in favour of the
calhiers of the banks for paying those divi
dend after which, they have palled Into j
dilHfict account, in the books of the bank
opentkl with Samuel Meredith, as agent te
tne commiffionirrs of the linking fund.
(To be continued.)
FOREIGN AFFAIRS.
PARIS, Dec 15.
" The explanation of the affairs of Frank
fort, has laid open the moll horrid, the
most infamousfcene that ever flunked hu
tnan nature; the mod premeditated scheme
of murder and a(l'uffi,nation ; and sorry arr
I to add, that this barbarous bufmefs die
not appear reprehenlible to the king oi
Prufiia or the duke of Brunfwick. Car
you hear and not revolt with indignation,
that the Landgrave of Helfe ordered the
knives with which the soldiers of the re
public were butchered, to be forged un
der his immediate infpaftion. That he
sent fome.jaf his satellites, and a band ol
carpenters to direct the malfacre of the
Second. The Heflians dfllributed money
amidst the populace, got drunk with them
and then formed their infernal plan.
When the town was fumnioued to fnr
render, the soldiers were, upon the drum
beating to arms, affjffinated as they re
paired to their quarters; some by their
holts, others from the windows in the
streets, others were seized by the groups
on the ramparts and thrown over the walls.
The wives of the soldiers were all, with
out companion for their sex, inhumanly
murdered, notwithltanding our brave sol
diers matle a molt obltinate refinance ; but
the aflallins, to the amount oi 1000, forced
the Coblent/. gate, and butchered the ar
tillery company, and volunteers 011 duty.
The battalion of St. their li
tuatiou, fought in desperation.—They
mowed down whole companies of the
PrulTians, and after burning their lalt car
tridge they took to the bayonet.
Here the Prullians, frightened at the
" Arrne Blanche," called out to them to
surrender—this was complied with by the
soldiers ceverling their firelocks, and the
officers lowering their swords and colors.
After an awful lilence, the Prullians open
ed their ranks and 1 t in the disguised Hef
lians, &c. The volunteers, with that con
fidence which soldiers have in their enemy,
gave up their arms ; when on a sudden
tliefe villains drew their knives and butch
ered every man without exception.
My eves are so full I can scarce fee what
I write !
Some few escaped along the Mayne, un
der the prote&ion of a detachment of the
firil battalion of chafleurs, with two pieces
of cannon, and some cavalry, who had ad
vanced to cover their retreat ; in this af
fair 1200 men have been flanghlered.
Monday the 3d, to complete the horror,
feverai French soldiers were sent from
Frankfort to Mentz with—their hands cut
off!
I entreat you for the honor of humanity,
to Ifate tliefe cirtumftances which I an
nounce to yon from the best authority ; and
to add, that the generals of tile French ar
my hive still continueel their lifual gene
rolity and humanity to the Prullians, wound
ed and prisoners; and have ordered this
detail oi'horror to be publiflied in German
and dispersed all over the countries we
have conquereel.
TelUne what instance in hiltory furniflie;
so lhamef'ul an example in time of war,
from one enemy to another V
Dtc- 20. The Landgrave of Hesse Caf
fel has publilhed in his dominions a procla
mation, that whatever fuhie£ts loved him,&
were desirous of defending their country,
should appear on a fixed day at the place oi
his residence ; but not one appeared. 111
consequence of this notification, the fol
lowing letter wa, addrelfed to the Land
grave of HelTe Caflel by Gen. Curtine, 011
the 28th of November.
" The Landgrave of Hefle Caflel endea
votirs to nflemble in tile centre of liis reli
dence numerous warriors. Does he not
remember that the last day has appeared
for all unjull foverrigns, which will be the
day of delivery for their blinded and de
luded fubjecls ?
" He has placed those around him b)
whose afliftance he expects to secure hi
disking throne—The lives of the best pari
of the nation, which he fold to fill his cof
fers, is a circumstance that will decide the
fate of this tyrant.
" Thou monster ! over whose head is
gathered a dark cloud from the carcafc
of the German nation—the tears of wi
dows whom thou haft made breadlefs—
the cries of orphans whom thou haft made
wretched—and thy ill treated soldier—
will deliver thee to the just cause of th<
French. Thy flight shall not save thee
for how could it be polfible to expert a na
tion in the world that will give thee refuge
tiger as thou art ?"
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Thursday, Feb. 28.
The three engrofled bills, read yefter
day, werepafled. Ameflage from the Se
nate, that they tlhere to their amendmen
for fixing the time of the next annual meet
ing of Congress 011 the last .Monday of De
ceniber next—and concur in the amend
ment of the house to their amendment t<
the judiciary supplemental bill. The bil
for altering the places of holding circui
courts in Vermont and North-Carolina
&c. v\ as reported by the committee, witl
amendments, and agreed to : after ano
ther reading, the bill was agreed to, ant
sent to the Senate, amended—The vote o
the Senate was then taken into confulera
tion, for appointing the time for hoidinj
the next meeting of Congress. The houf<
of representatives infiftcd on their difa
greenient, and appointed a committee o]
conference. A further appropriation bil
wis reported, read twice, and referred tc
a committee of the whole this day. The
Indian intercourse bill was reported bj
the committee of enrollment, and also the
bill for ascertaining the fees in admiraltj
courts, asduly enrolled—The Speaker lign
ed the fame. A Committee was appointee
to report a bill for increasing the salary o:
the commillioner of the revenue and audi
tor of accounts—A bill further to secure
the collection of certain duties,was broughi
in, twice read, and committed—Thchoufe
were notified, that the President has iigncc
the appropriation a£t, and the act to regu
late the claims to invalid pensions—The a
mentirjients to the bill lor altering tfaepla
ces of holding circuit courts, in Vermont
&. North-Carolina, were concurred by the
Senate. The house was also notified by then
that they had appointed persons to confei
with the committee from the house on the
bill fixing the next -annual meeting of Con
gress—and that the Senate have concurrec
in the bill making provilion for the expence
of a treaty to be held with the lioftile In
dians— Ihe resolutions, offered by Mr.
(jiles, relative to the official conduct of the
Secretary of the Treasury, were taken up.
and moved to be referred to a committee
ol the whole. [These resolutions are a;
follow :]
■' Kefolved, That it is eflential to the
due administration of the government oi
the United States, that laws making fpeci
fic appropriations, Ihould be ftriftly obser
ved by the adminillrator of the finance!
thereof.
Resolved, That the violation of a law
making appropriations for monies, is a vi
olation of that article of the conftitutior
of the United States, which requires, thai
no monies shall be drawn from the treasu
ry but in consequence of appropriation!
made by law.
Resolved, That the Secretary of the
Treasury has violated the law , palled the
4th of August, 1790, making appropriations
of certain monies, authorised to Be bor
rowed by the fame law, in the follow ing
particulars, to wit.
Ift By applying a certain portion of the
principal borrow ed to the payment of in
terest falling due upon that principal, which
was not authorifeel by that, or any other
law.
2dly- By drawing part of the fame mo
nies into the United States-, without the
instruction oi the President of the United
States.
Resolved, That the Secretary of the
Treasury has deviated from the instruc
tions given by the President of the United
States, in executing the authorities for
making loans, under the acts of the 4th and
12th of August 1 790.
Resolved, That the Secretary of the
Treasury has omitted to discharge an es
sential duty of his office, in failing to give
Congress official information in due time,
of the monies drawn by him from Europe
into the United States; which drawing
commenced December 1790, and continued
till January 1 793, and of the caules of ma
king such drafts.
Resolved, That the Secretary of the
Treasury has without theinftruftions of
the President of the United States ; drawn
more monies, borrowed in Holland,' into
the United States, than the Prflident of the
United States authorised t,o draw under
the act of'tJie 12th of August 1790 ; vvhi.h
ast appropriated t vo millions of dollars
only, when borrowed, so the purchafe.of
the public debt, and tljat he has omitted t
di(charge an essential duty o'f his office, in
failing to give official information to the
commiliioners for purchafiag the public
debt, of the various funis drawn from time
to time, suggested by him to have beei;
intended lor the purchase of the public
debt.
Resolved, That the Secretary of the
Treasury did not consult the public interell
in negotiating a loan v ith the bank ol the
United States, and drawing therefrom
400,c00 dollars at 5 per centum per an
num, when a greater Aim of public mone}
was depolited in various banks at the re
fpeftive periods of making the refpeftive
drafts.
Resolved, That the Secretary of the
Treafuryhas been guilty of an indecorun
to this house, in undertaking to judge o.
its motivesin calling for information whicl
was demandable of him, from the consti
tution of his office, and in failing to give
to all theneceiFary information within hi
knowledge, relatively t* the fubjeits of re
ference made to him of the itjthjanuar]
1792, and of the 22(1 of November 1792.
during the present feflion.
Resolved, That a copy of the foregoinj
resolutions be transmitted to the Preliden
of the United States."
A reference of the two firft, was object
ed to, as being mere abflract proportion
on which it was embarrafiing and unne
cefiary for the house to give an opinion :
the difcuflion of them would take up mucl
of that time they lhould devote to an at
tention to those in which the charaftef o:
the Secretary is implicated, and which re
late to matter of fact.
The question to refer these was negati
ved, 32 to 2j.
To referring the last which reads as sol
lows : " Resolved, That a copy of th<
foregoing resolutions be transmitted to th<
Prelident of the United States," it was ob
jected, that, if upon due enquiry an;
thing criminal should be found in the con
dust of the Secretary, he should be im
peached, that he might undergo a conllitii
tional trial, and be in poffeflion of the con
ftitutional mejns of defence. Upon thi
ground, this resolution was not referred.
The house then went into committee o
the whole on the remaining resolutions
and resolved that they li.oulcl be debatet
one by one.
The third resolution, now firft in order
was consequently taken up : [See above.
Upon this there was some debate, bu
the committee rose without taking an;
queition on it, and are to iit again to-mor
row.
The house adjourned to 6 o'clock in tin
afternoon.
Thursday Evening, Feb. 28.
In committee of the whole, Mr. Sedg
wick in the chair, 011 the bill for extendin:
the time for receiving on loan that part o
the domeflic debt of the . United States
which may not be fubferibed prior to the
firft day of March, 1793. The bill wa
reported without amendments, and or
dered to be engrofied for a third read
ing.
In committee of the whole, on the bil
making certain appropriations therein men
tioned—Mr. Bondinot in the chair. Seve
ral amendments were agreed to by the
committee, which were reported, and laic
on the table.—Adjourned.
FridAv, March r.
Read a third time and passed, the bill foi
extending the time for receiving fubferip
tions to the loan of the United States—ac
cording to this bill the fubferiptions are ti
be continued to June 30, 1794 —The house
received a mefi'age from the Senate, noti
fying their agreement to an amendment tc
the amewdments of the house to the flip
plementary ast for colledtion of duties or
foreign goods, and on the tonnage of ves
sels. The amendment of the Senate is tc
strike out, and insert an allowance of three
eighths of one per cent, to the collectors ol
New-It ork and Philadelphia, and to the
collectors of Bolton, Baltimore, anc
Charlelton, three fourths of one per cent.
This was agreed to—The bill for encrea
sing the salary of the commiflioner of the
revenue, and that of the auditor of ac
counts was twice read, and laid over for
to-morrow—Read a third time and passed.
the bill providing an allowance of 400 dol
lars per annum for jhe education of H.
Mercer, till he attains the age of 21 years.
The appropriation bill, being read and a
mended, was ordered to be engroiltd for
a third reading—Several bills were report
ed as duly enrolled—A mefl'.ge from the
Senate, that they have passed the ast for
extending the time for receiving fubferip
tions to the loan of the United States—A
ineffngc from the President, that lie has
approved and flgned two aits, one for as
certaining the fees demandable in cases oj
admiralty proceedings, the other, an ast to
regulate trade and intercourse with the
Indian tribes—Mr. Moore reported three
bills as duly enrolled—the ast for eftabliih
ing judicial courts—for changing the pia-
ess and times of holding circuit courts
and the appropriation acl—The house
ihen, in committee of the whole, took up
Mr. Giles's resolutions, relat ve to the of
ficial conduct of the Secretary of the Trea
sury—The debate continued till 5 o'clock,
when the hoil re adjourned, to me et at se
ven, this evening, on the fame fubjeit.—
The ho life having met again, a long debate
took place, till near midnight, when the
queflion being taken separately on the fe
ien lail of Mr. Giles's refutations (the
twofirft having been previoully (truck out)
the house divided thereon—the 3d refolu
tioii was negatived, 14 for, and 38 against
it—the 4th was alio negatived, 16 for and
35 against it—the jth, 6th 7th, and Bth
u ere negatived without a division. The
committee then role and reported, and the
queflion beirtg put, whether the house will
agree to the report of the committee,
which is to disagree to the resolutions—the
yeas and nays were as follow :
Ayes, Mefl'rs. Ames,Benfon, Boudinot, S.
Bourne, B. Bourne, Dayton, Fitzfijnons,
Oilman, Gerry, Goodhue, Gordon, Green,
up, Griffin, Grove, Hartley, Hillhonfe, Key,
Kitchell, Lawrence, Learned, Lee, Li
vermore, Leonard, Muhlenberg, Murray,
Niles, Sedgwick, I. Smith, J. Smith, W.
Smith, Sturges, Steele, Sterret, Thatcher,
Tucker, Ward, Williamfon, Willis, Hynd
man, 39.
Noes, Melfrs. Afhe, Baldwin, Findley,
Giles, Giegg, Macon, Madi.on, Moore,
Page, Mercer, Parker, Orr, 12.
The next qll eft ion was put, on disagree
ing to the third refolutioii, which \vas ne
gatived, Yeas 39, Noes'l 2—the fourth re
folutioii was negatived, 32 to 15 —The sth
alio. The (th by 30 to 8, and the Bth rel
peiting the indecorum charged to the Se
cretary of the Treafurv, was negatived 34
toy.
At this late hour, midnight, it was
obfervc-d, that several members had left
the house, being so much fatigued, that
they w ere not able to (lay for the yeas and
nays: the house then adjourned,'till 11
o'clock to-morrow.
Saturday, March 2.
A report was presented by the commit
tee on the letter of the Secretary of the
1 reafnry relative to the errors in his print
ed reports. The committee exonerate
the comptroller, clerk, and printer from
blame ; and recommend that 300 copies of
the reports ol the Secretary during the
present session be pruned tinder his direc
tion for the tife of the house. The report
was adopted.
TJie house were then notified that the
President had signed the bill providing lor
theexpences of holding a treaty with the
hostile Indians. The bill to increase the
salaries of certain, officers W 3S taken up
and agreed to : the blanks were filled up*
as follows—Additional (alary to the audi
tor, 500 dollars—ditto, commifiioncr of
the revenue, 500 —ditto, regi(ler2jo—dit
to, comptroller, 250 —several bills were
presented as duly enrolled, viz. The bill
extending the time of receiving fubferip
tions to the loan of the United States ; the
bill to pay the bank the inftaimcnt due ;
the bill to support li< ht-houfes not ccded ;
that in favor of Elijah Bolt wick j that pro
viding an annual allowance for Jjugh
Mercer, and the bill more effectually to
:o!le£t certain duties.
The committee of conference on the
nbjett of the time of the next meeting of
Congress, could not come to an agreement
with the committee of the Senate—The
house were notified that the Senate had
palled the additional appropriation bill—
A refolutioii was agreed to, requiring the
Secretary of the Trea.ury to communicate
some particulars relative to the excise, by
Monday the firfl: of January 1794.
Evening Skssion.
A report was read from the Secretary of
the Treasury on the fubjefl of the excise ;
and ordered to be printed—Thefenate
notified the house, that they have non
concurred the bill for granting fifty thou
sand acres of land to the inhabitants of Gal
lipolis— ihe committee's report 011 the
memorial of W.Crowe, relative to his
discovery ol encreafing the effect of a given
quantity of gun powder, was taken up and
referred to thenext < ongrefs; The bill for
feenring the collection of duties on diftill
fpirits, &c. was taken up, but the time li
mited for adjournment, not allowing of a
disci (lion. the committee thereon were
discharged—Several aits were reported as
duly enrolled, and were (igned by the Pre
sident during the fitting—The house then
appointed a committee, to inform the Pre-*
fident that thsy are ready to adjourn, pre
vious notice to the fame elfect having been
received from the Senate. The President
having no further communications to make
the house ndjourncd fine die [To meet a
gain, by the constitution on the firft Mon
day in December next.] On motion of Mr.
Murray, thanks being voted to the Speak
er, he replied as follows :
Gentlemen,
You have made me very happy by this
teftinony of jour approbation of my con
duct in the chair.
At the fame time, I feel an additional
pleasure in this opportunity of rendering to
you my sincere acknowledgments fqr the
iynd candor and indulgence, as well us th.«constant aid and support which I have ex
perienced from you, in the performance ot
the duty which yon wire pleafeil to ailign
to me.
Be allured, Gentlemen, that I ((hall ever
retain a grateful sense of your'goodnefs,
and you will fuller me to add, t!y-,it my beif
wishes for your welfare and happiness, i,i
public and private life, will aftteud each
member of this honorable body.
urn nwawßsiß«amL»»ni
PHILADEiyPHI A.
March &.
On Monday ] ast the Senate of the Uniter
States convened in the Senate-Chamber,
pursuant to summonses from the Presi
dent of the United States. TheSpeakei
and Members of the late House of Rcpre
fentatives, the Secretary of the Treasury
the Secretary of State, the Secretary o
Wav, the Attorney-General, the Judges o:
the Supreme Court, and other officers o
government; the foreign Ministers, and ;
number of private citizens, ladies and gen
tlemen, were also present on the occalion
At twelve o'clock precifelv, the Prefiden
of the United States entered the hall. Mr
Lan-'don, President pro tempore, then rofi
and laid : Sir, one of the Judges of the Su
preme Court of the United States is nov
present, and ready to adminilter to you th<
oath required by the conditution, to beta
ken by the President of the United States
The President 011 this addrefFed his "Fel
low- Citizens in a (hort, but comprehenfiv
speech.
Judge Cufiiing then read the oath, whicl
the President repeated after him, fentenci
by sentence, as follows :
/, George Wafhingttn, dofolemnly/wear
that I will fait'if.tlly execute the office c,
Prefidmit of the United States ; artd will, t
the be ft cf my ability, preserve, protect, ant
defe'td the Conjiitution as ths Unite,
State <•
After taking the oath, the President re
tired. as he had come, without pomp 01
ceremony : on his departure from thi
hnufe, the People saluted him with threi
cheers.
On Saturday night last both hotifes ol
the Supreme Legislature of the Unite< :
States closed their session. The next Con
gress is to meet (as fixed by the federal
conftiturion) 011 the 1 ft Monday in Decem
ber next. The titles of the several acts, pas
sed during the present feflion, are as follow :
j. An ast concerning the regirtering and
recording of ships or veflels.
2■ An ast to amend an ast, intituled,
" An ast eftablifiling a Mint, and regulat
ing the coins of the United Stales," so far
as refpefts the Coinage of Coppt-i.
3. An ast to provide for the allowance
of interefl on the sum ordered to be paid
by the resolve of Congress, of the twenty
eighth of September, one thousand fever
hundred and eighty five, as an indemnity to
the persons therein named.
4. An act to continue in force for a lim
ited time, and to amend the ast, intituled,
" An ast providingthe means of intercourse
between the United States, and foreign
nations."
j. An ast regulating foreign coins, and
for other purposes.
6. An ast relative to claims against the
United States, not barred by any ast of liin
itation, and which have not been already
adju-fled.
7. An ast refpe&ing fugitives from jus
tice, and persons efcapingfrom the fervicc
of their matters.
8. An ast for enrolling and licenfmg fiiip:
or veflels to be employed in the coaftin«
trade and fifheries, and lor regulating the
fame.
9. An ast providing compensation to th<
President and Vice-President of the Uni
ted States.
10. An ast to repeal part of arefohiti
on of Congreft, of the twenty-ninth ol
August, one thousand feveu hundred and
eiglity eight, refpefting the inhabitants ol
Port Saint Vincents
11. An ast to promote the progress of
ufeful arts; and to repeal the ast hereto
fore made for that purpose.
12. An ast to authorize the Comptrol
ler of the treasury to fettle the account of
Thomas Wifhart, late a lieutenant in the
army of the United States.
13. An ast to authorize the adjustment
of a claim of Joseph Henderfon against the
United States.
14. An ast making provision for the per
sons therein mentioned.
1 5. An ast for repealing the several im
port laws of the United States, so far as
they may be deemed to impose a duty on
ufeful bealis imported forbreed.
16. An ast in addition to and alteration
of the ast, entitled, " An ast to extend the
time limited for fettling the accounts of
the United States with the individual
states."
17. An ast to regulate the claims to in
valid penfionS.
18. An ast making appropriations for the
support of government for the year one
thousand seven hundred and nineiy-three.
ig. An ast to regulate trade and inter
course \\ ith the Indian tribes.
20. All ast to aftertain the fees in admi
ralty proceedings in the diftrift courts 01
tiie United States, and for other purposes
21. An act making an appropriation tu
defray the expense o a trea y with the in
dians north weft of rite Ohio.
23. An ast in addition to the ast, enti
tled, " An act to eflablilli the judicial courts
of the United States."
23. An ast to alter the times and places
of holding the circuit courts in the Ealtern
Diftrift, and in North-Carolina, and for
□ ther purposes.
24. An ast fupplemeiitary to the ast, en
titled, " An act to provide more effeftual
iy for the collection of the duties imposed
by law 011 goods, wares and merchandize,
niported into the United States, and on
th& tonnage of ships or vefl'els."
25. An ast providing for the payment of
:he firft instalment due 011 a loan made ol
:he bank of the United States.
26. An act for extending the time for
-eceiving 011 loan that part of the domestic
lebt of the United States which may not
>e fubferibed, prior to the fir ft (lay of
Vlarcli, one thousand seven hundred anil
linety-three.
27. An ast supplementary to the ast for
he eftablifliment and support of light houl
;s, beacons, buoys and public piers.
28. An ast providing an annual allow
mce for the education of Hugh Mercer.
29. An act for the relief of Elijah Boft
wick.
30. An ast making certain appropriati
ons therein mentioned.
31. An ast making addition to the com
,>enfation of certain public officers, —and,
32. An ast for the relief of Siineo:
Thayer.
We mentioned in our last, that Willi
am Cooper is elected a member of the next
Federal House of Reprefen'atives, from
the state of New-York - upon better in
formation, we find that F.lias Talbot
15 the fuccef.ful c ndidate.
A correfp indent fnppnfes that the mar
who has for, four yeai s past wiftied to give
aw to the United States, and whose fi.ian
:ial abilities have been extolled even to the
leavens, will He found, on examination, tf
je a Law hiinfelf.
On Thursday, the Senate and House ol
Representatives of this state. convened
ind, agreeable to a refolutinn of both houf
?s, made choice of a Representative m the
Senate of the United States tor the state ol
Pennsylvania. The votes were taken vivc.
'>oce and Albert Galatin, Esq. was electee
jy a majority of ten.
We hear from Cape Francois that mo
her engagement took place between the
whites and negroes on or about the latter
;nd of January. The negroes being beat
:n, and closely pursued, took (belter ir
the cane fields, which being set on fire on
ill fides by the whites, near 1000 negroes
seriflied in the flames.
On the 22nd of February, a packet from
Annapolis to Baltimore, was ovcrfet in her
jaflage by afudden flaw of wind : out of
line persons on board, eight were drown
;d, molt of them heaels of families, whose
lols it isfaid will be severely felt by theii
"urviving friends and relatives.
An American gentleman, lately arrivec
I'rom France where be had every opportu
nity, and fp.ircd 110 pains to collect the b^i 1
information, communicates the molt agree
able accounts from that quarter. The ci
ty of Paris was in a state of perfect tran
quility, and under the ftrifteft police; tilt
military under exact difc:j;line. the ordei
m the Convention grear, considering the
number of its members, the natural Viva
city of the French, and the u .bou ded va
riety of .bulinefs they have to tranfaft. L:
Fayt.ite, he also informs, meets with gooc
treatment in his confinement.
When the January packet left England
it was currently reported in London, th,>
the trial of Louis the 16th was finilhed
and he found guilty. That he is to be re
tained prisoner to the end of the war, anc
afterwards, with his family, to be banilhet
forever from the republic.
The Pilots heretofore engaged in con
dusting vpfl'els to and from Philadelphia
having entered into an agreement not t<
carry up or dowfi the river or bay any vef
fek after the firft of March, unless thei;
prices be raised—the wardens of the por
have, in consequence thereof, publicly no
tified all the faitl pilots to deliver up thei 1
branches 011 or before the I4thinftant (am
those in Philadelphia before one o'cloci
this day) otherwise their bonds will bi
put in suit.
On Monday last was launched here ;
large fliip designed for the Eafl India are
China trade. She is named, the Indiai
Chief.
Late accounts from Cape Francois mem
tion the whites to have been fuccefsful ii
all their late attacks upon the negro fivrC'
es. Great numbers of' the latter had tak
en refuge in the mountain, and about 200 c
wenches and children had come in the be
ginning of February.
General accounts from England render
it probable, that no declaration of war will
take place 011 the part of Great-Britain
against France, but rather that an accom
modatio i would be efffecled. There ars
several reasons to give credit to the late
accounts that Mr. Pitt was carrying on £
negotiation with the executive council oj
France.
We hear from Pittsburgh that Mr.
Rrackenridge has jutl publiflied there, hi:
third volume of the adventures of Capt.
Farrago, and his man Teague O'Regan.
A supply, it is said, is now on its way tc
this city, for the gratification of the lovers
of satire and fun.
It is stated in authentic accounts from
the western country, that the lavages inger
eral, welt of the Ohio, are determined for
war unlets the United States will, by ar
lit of the Supreme Legislature, relicquiil
all claim to the territory N. W. of that ri
vcr ; and that they are determined to con
tinue hostilities until the e\er.t of the pro
ioPed treaty, to be held at Sandutki in May
next, is known—and that if it is not agree
ibje to their withes, they will pay no ref
lect to it. The fame accounts fay. thai
:he British still continue to supply the hof
:ile Indians with every necetlary for car
•ying on the war. which they fay is in con
lideration of the Indian trade. It is ad
led, that if the north western territory/:
elinqutjhed, the British ftaud ready to pur
chase it from the natives, and thereof
erett a new province.
[From a Correfj>ondent.~\
A Theatreis now eretted in Charleston.
i.'C. in confequertce of a repeal of a form
er prohibitory law of the legislature ol
:h,it trate, and we hear tlrenuotu exerti
ins are shortly to be made in Boflon lor i
like repeal of the law in force againll tlage
exhibitions in that state. Under judiciou.
management, there is no doubt but a the
atre might be rendered morally inttru&ive
nid innocently entertaining even in a dc
liocratic government ; at the fame time
:t is too true that many plays, now in high
cogue, ought to undergo a sentence of ex
pillfion, as illy adapted to inculcate thai
virtuous timplicity, humility of demeanoi
ind love of equal liberty which ought a
ike to actuate governors and governed ir
i pure and virtuous rebuplic. If, on tl.t
A merican ttage, we are to be entertainec
with dramatic productions exhibiting tht
;hg trical foppery of fretful, paffionatt
pouting queens, rakifti princes, ant
flirting princefles, knavith mini A ers anc
peevilh secretaries, 1 jmenting misfortune:
in which the bulk oi mankind are no waj
concerned ; daggering, poisoning, or hang
ing themfeives for grievances, that an
purely imaginary—better th.it we were
without them.—Regal conquests, and the
druggies of regal ambition, the base plot:
as ariftacracy, and the splendid feats o:
military butchers, are by no means propel
[\ibje£ts for an American stage, except on
ly 1 rien held up as objects or puot'rc abhor
rence and detettation. But even in fuel
cafe, scenes of this kind are dangerous, a:
:he f.ilfe glare of valorous atchievement
ind the deceptive colourings of poetic art
:oofrequ ltly lead the unfufpeciing audi
tor to i fort of tacit approbation, a tear o:
condolence, or a sigh of sympathy with the
royal, the noble, or the heroic fuiferer
l'i w'.tage exhibitions can, indeed, be ufe
tul in any d:gree, except fnch as inculcati
ju obfervanceof the moral and social dn
ies. or in forne shape tend to better th<
heart, without vitiating the underttandinj
by an overstrained address to the fancy
It has ever been the policy of minifiers oj
/late, in all monarchical governments, oi
government i verging towards monarchy, ti
create, and countenance alluring amuse
ments, in order to prevent the people iron
thinking. A few years ago, when partic.
ran high in England, Garrick was employ
ed by the government to give a jubilee, ii
honour of Shakespeare, at Stratford upoi
Avon. The scheme succeeded beyond ex
pectation. Wilkes and Liberty were neg
lected, and for along time nobody med
dled with politics. To the fame purpoft
the celebrated dancer, Ve'/Iris, was after
wards imported, I forget whether fron
France or Italy, and forfome yearsdancee
away every political idea of the Englift
nation. The old despotic French govern
ment, when it found itfelf going, made ai
effort to divert the people with balloons
a:id for some time the project seemed ti
take, but finally failed of success ; am
both French and Americans have (inci
thewed ihe world, that they know how tt
enjoy rational amusement without surren
dering up the faculty of thinking t(
certain gentlemen, who from time to time
have kindly (tho' rather officioutly) offeree
totakp the trouble off the.r hands.
[From a CorreJpendent in SavpWiah
Georgia.]
" In a late National Gazette I find men
tion made ps a machine for ginning Caroli
va Cotton. As a Georgian, the words Ca
rolinp Cotton were gi ating, and occationee
a momentary difguil with tile writer e>:
the paragraph. On consideration, hove
ver, I concluded it was more owing't<
want of infprmation than an intention ti
rob Georgia of the credit of that flaplc
for the fail is, that where Carolina make;
one pound oi cotton for sale Georgia make
three, and Carolina made none for expor
tation until Georgia had eftabliflied it
charafler. The Georgia cotton feed is ir
great demand, not onty on the continent,
but in the. Bahama islands, and her cotto%
commands the height of the Britifli mar
ket. The fame ohferystions lipid good
with rcfpeft to tobacco. In the northern
prices current it is -nil " Carolina Tobac
co," altho' a very coniiderable proportion
of what is shipped at Charleftpnis brought
from Georgia. Indigo and ricq, are 11a
ples which from long habit Carolina has a
right to by courtesy, but even ip tjiofe sta
ples, Georgia is fact approaching to foinc-,
thing more than rivalihip, and in a Ihprt
time will claim a preference."
th.e 801 l on Independent Chronicle. \
Extract of a letter from a Gentleman in
Philadeljihia, to hii friend in this* State.
" Your communication by the post, with,
"efpect tp your elections, was very i>lea
ing, as it ralated tp particular characters.
U e want Republicans ; as we have already
n this quarler, a full supply of perfpns who
ire warm supporters of the Monarchical
and Ariftocratical principles, or in other
ivords Confolidatioriijh.—The business of
uongrefs goes on very {lowly, they being
principally employed in investigating the
:ondu£t ol heads of departments, which to
Jur misfortune draw s their attention from,,
matters relating to our commerce, agri
.ulture and manufactures.—While cur
:rade " lies bleeding at every pore" the
Legislature ol the Union 1 as to at
:end to the " neglect and mifmaiiage
nennt" of contraas, &c. and the greatc-ft
part of their time is taken up either in <?/>-
plications from, or reports of, heads of de
partments. In (liort, these departments
erve to delay all public business; as they
Srlt involve government in difficulties, and
then it takes the whole feflion of Congress.,
to investigate the cause, and remedy ?hc
-vils. By a late report you will observe
:lie hauteur still used in addrcfling the re
presentatives of the people ; in a few years
we may expect that it will become almost
ilangerous for Jo small a character as d
Reprejentative, to alk information on any
Tubje.it, provided the head of a
is to be called on for the explanation, A
iijagreement between a memorandum in
the Treafnrer's bank book, and the state
ment reported, beinj the sum of five mil
lions,(even hnndredandjixty thoujand, one,
hundred and thirty-eight florins, is conli
;!ered by a rejponjible gentleman, only as
tmall circumjiai.ce, and not warthy the
attention of the Houfe—thongh, on ex
plaining this disagreement, he is obliged to.
divulge a system of negotiation altogether
vijjonary. The tranCaclion is so very in
tricate, that no man who was not within
the arcana of secrets, could ever account
lor it.—This difagreenieut is morieflly Ai
led an appearance of little fignificancy ; and
fie seems highly affronted that any one
member {hould presume publicly to call
liim to an account to reconcile the memo
randum in the Treasurer's bank book, antj
the statement reported, notwithstanding
the difference is so immense.
•' It is not doubted, however, but that
certain independent members consider the
report with that freedom its importance
merits.
44 It is the earnest wilh of the conjoliia
tionijis, that Mr. JeferJon would
but every real Federalijt is equally
for his continuance in office. ' He has been
abused by a set of high-flying monarchy
men: but every friend to the happiness and
prosperity of America is aware of ihe de
lign, and resents the insult. In fliort, my
ttear friend, if he (hould resign, the cause
of Repuhlicatiijm would lose an able and
warm supporter. Thank Heaven, Cnr,-
j»refs is blefled with a Madijon, a Steele, &
1 Giles.men who are willing to support the
pure principles of tlte constitution, and de
termined to oppose every encroachment,
however artful and formidable the as
sault."
*** Gracchus /hall find a place in cur
next.
FOR SALE.
THE Subscriber wishes ro fell the HOUSE
and LOT in Princeton, now in the tenure
. t William Worth j it. is an eligible ftanri, either
for a private family or a trao'efman, being fwuated
on the fslorth fide of the ftrpet, near the centre, cf
the town, and a little east of the market house—
The lot contain? forty-two feet jn front, and up
wards of two hundred feet in depth j on the pre
mises is ete&ed, and in good tenantable order, a
two ftorv dwellipg house, twenty /"eet front by 26;
in depth } two rooms on the lower floor, wi:h ari
entry fix feet wide j three roopis on tjip second
floor, and a room in the garret, lathed apd pla!-
fered. Ip the rear of the house, and acjo'ning
thereto, is a large kitchen, and the cellar intents
under the whole of the house. In the yard, theie
is a well of excellent water—the vard and garden
are enclosed with a good pale fence. This hojsf*
and lot mght be an object ro fnme gentleman
might wifii to educate his children either at the.
College o r the Latin rr Englifb schools, wh'i< h
are conduced upon an improved plan—-The til!*?
is indisputable, and poflefijon may be had the Hi ft
of April. Fur terms apply to the fubferiber ijj
Princeton.
JARED SEXTON:
I Feb. 2§.CONGRESS,
Friday, Feb. 22.
A memorial from Arthur St. Clair was
read, and referred, paying fettlertient of
an account, prct.nted by him to the late
board of tr nlury —also a memorial from
John Rdls, praying fett'ement of an ac
count, wr ich was referred to a committee
— A bill firing the time for the next an
nual me ting of Congress was twice read
and ordered to be engrossed for a third
rr :(',ii)»—A bill* relative to colti of fees
on bail proctin, in the judiciary courts oi
the United State?, was twice read and laid
over to f onday next A mefTage was re
ceived from the Piefident of the United
States, that he had approved and signed
the bill for fettling the claims of Jofepii
Hendeifon, and the bill for the relief of
Tborr.a< Willi rt. Several petitions and
memorials were read and referred—Sundry
amendments were reported from the com
mittee that had been appointed on the bi 1
from the Senate, supplementary to the ol
leftionlaw; these amendments were read.Sc
rcf.rted toa committeeof thewhole for to
morrow—A motion being made, that the
House should adjourn for half an hour, to
wait upon the President of the United
States, to congratulate him upon the an
niversary of his bii ill-day, the yeas and
nays were called, when there appeared 4)
for, and 18 againfl the mo'ion—The mem
bers then waited 011 the President accor
dingly — A bill was read to authorize the
grant of lands (, 0,000 acres) to the inlia
bitants of Gallipoiis, on the Ohio, to be
surveyed at the expence of the United
States—read twice, and committed for
to-morrow —An add tional report was re
ceived from the Secretary of the ' reafury,
with an account of the balances, which
will not be required on the appropriations
to the eiid of the rear 1792. The S,e
na'e's amendments to the appropriation
bill were taken into consideration : several
of these were agreed to and one disagreed
to, V 7. ft r con JenGng into one fnm the ap
pr< pi iation for the expences of the war de
partment —Yea-. 30 —Nc>ys 31. —An a
mendment to the feflion which authorizes
the President to make a loan to the amount
ol 800 000 dollars, was arrelled by an ob
jection to the fe&ion itfelf which had
already puffed the two h mfes—Without
deciding on this amendment, the Huufe
adjourned.
Saturday, Feb. 23.
The bill for tepealing impoil laws, re
fpefting the importation of nleful bealls
was reid a third time a 1 passed—The bill
for fixing the time .of the next annual
meeting of Congref; was read a third time
and raffed ; and the blank filled up with
ti.e firfl Monday in November, 1793 —A
supplementary bill for extending the time
limited for fettling the accounts between
the United States and individual States,
was read the third time—on the question,
fh 11 the bill pass ? it was carried in the
affirmative: Yeas 39, Nays 17. The a
men ments of the Senate to the appropri
ation bill were then taken into considera
tion, ar.d the amendment to the fedlion
authorizing a loan, in anticipation of the
funds, was further debated—After a con
fiderable tim , the queflion for concurring
wi h the Senate was carried in the affirma
tive —Yeas 34, Kays 25 A biil was re
ceived from the Senate (pasTed with a
mendm nts) making pvovifion for the wi
dows and orphans of perfotis killed under
the sanction of flags of truce—Laid on
the table.
Monday, Feb. 25.
Thel ouf agreed to the Senate's amend
meat to the bill making provilion for the
widows and orphans of certain persons
killed by the Indians, while under fanftion
of flags of truce - A message from the
Senate, that they recede from their amend
ment to the bill for regulating claims to
invalid pension a second message
from the Senate, that they recede fiom
their amendment to the bill making appro
priations for the support of government
for 1793, The house then, in committee
of the whole, took into consideration the
supplementary bdl, from the Senate, for
the inore effectual collection of duties, and
for regulating the tonnage of vessels—
Several amendments being made and a
greed to by the house, the bill was read a
third time and passed—A third message
from the Senate, that they have passed the
bill, exempting from impost, ufeful animals
imported for breed, with amendments—
A flatement of purchafrs was then read
from the trustees of the (inking fund'
(purf-.iar.t to a resolution of the house)
since the lad return ; and laid ever for
furtherconlideration—A 4th meflage from
the Senate, transmitting a bill for altering
the places of holding the circuit courts of
ihe United States in Vermont and North
Carolina—The house went into committee
of the whole on the bill for defraying the
expence of holding a treaty with the In
dian tribes: one amendment was made,
reported, and, with the bill, laid 011 the
table. The bill from the Senate refpefting
diflrkl courts was read twice, a::d com
mitted for tomorrow—'l he amendments
erf the Senate to the bill for freeing frpm
duties beails imported for breed, &c. were
read and agreed to. The committee cn
the ecretary of State's letter, relative to
eltablifhng a commercial intercourse with
foreign natigns, reported that the Secreta
ry's report 011 this fubjeft will not be called
for the present feflion The house agreed
to this report. The resolution for pio
longing the time fir receiving fubferip'ions
in the domeilic debt of the United Statei,
to the loan of the United States, was a
greed to, and a committee appointed <0
report a bill.
Tuesday, Feb. 26.
After reading a report on the petition
of Lewis Pintard, proppfing an extenfiori
of the time limited for receiving draw
backs, and which was referred to the com
mittee of the whole to-morrow. Thi
house, in committee of the whole, took up
the bill for authorising 50 000 acres grant
of land in the N. W. territory to the in
habitants of Gailipolis—the bill was dis
cussed till near the time of adjournment —
several amendments were made, and the
bill ordered to be engrofied for a third
reading to-morrow. A message from the
senate that they concur in the amend
ments to the supplementary bill for ellab
lifhing the judicial courts of the Un ted
States. Four bills were then reported as
duly enrolled, viz. the appropriation bill
for 1793 —the ast for regulating cla ms to
invalid pensions—the bill repealing import
laws, so far as they refpeft the importation
of caitle for breed, — and the bill for fet
tling the claims of certain persons therein
mentioned—A committee was appointed
to report a bill, for the fapport of light
houses, beacons, Sic. not ceded to the ti
nned States—The bill for defraying the
expences of holding a treaty with the
tribes of Indians N. W. of the Ohio, was
taken up : an amendment of the commit
tee of the whole house, reported yester
day, was agreed to, and the bill ordered tc
be engrossed. A meflage from the Senate,
that they have concurred in the Indian
trade a d intercourse bill, and amended
the bill fixing the time of the next annual
meeting of Congress—A motion being
disagreed to, that the house should go intc
committee of the whole on the report ol
the committee appointed to enquire intc
the causes of the failure of the expedition
under Gen. St. Clair, another motion was
made that the committee of the whole
should be discharged from the further con
fi eration of the said report, which was
carried in the affirmative—Mr- Madison
moved the two following resolutions, viz.
Refolvcd, That the report of the com
mittee on the causes of ihe failure of tH«
expedition under Gen. St. Clair, ought
to be printed, together with the observa
tions of the Secretary of War, the com
manding genera!, arid the quarter-master
general, relative thereto.
Refolvcd, That each member of Con
gress be furnifhed with two copies of the
fame, and that such measures may be
eligible, be taken to circulate them thro 1
the United States.
These resolutions were debated for some
time ; but without deciding, the house
adjourned.
Wednesday, Feb. 27.
The bill for a grant of land to the in
habitants of Gailipolis, and the bill foi
defraying the expences of the Indian trea
ty N. W. of the Ohio, were read a third
time and pasTed—the bill for eftablifainp
light-houses, beacons, buoys, &c. was
twice read, and referred to the committee
of the whole, this day—the bill for ex
tending the time limited for receiving sub
scriptions to the United States loan was
twice read, and committed for to-morrow.
A resolution was laid on the table by Mr.
Fitzfimons, " that a committee be ap
pointed to bring in a bill for making fur
ther provision for fectiring the collediori of
die duties on foreign and home didilled
(pints, fulls, wines, and teas"—agreed to,
and referred to a ftleft committee. The
amendments of the senate to the amend
ments of the house to the bill supplemen
tary to the ast for eitablifliing the judicial
courts of the United States were read ;
also their amendments to the bill to regu
late trade and intercourse with the Indian
tribes.
A letter was read from the Secretary
of the Treasury, complaining of some in
accuracies in the printing of the reports
which he had made to the house during
the present fefiion : this letter was refer
red to a feleft committee, confiding of
MefTrs. Fitzfimons,Sedgwick and Dayton.
An explanation 0.1 this fubjeft was made,
by Mr. Beckley, to the following purport :
" That the report of receipts and expendi.
tures of the government to the «nd of the
year 1791, had been detained at the press
upwards of fix weeks ; and that the prin
ter informed the clerk, that the detention
had been principally occaiioned by the de
lays in examining the proof sheets of it,
at the Comptroller's office, and other cau
fes proceeding from that office, which cir
cumllances the Secretary of the Treafm-y
was made acquainted with by the Clerk
several weeks ago."
In committee of the whole, on the bill
for changing the places of holding circuit
courts of the United States in North Ca
rolina and Vermont, &c.—some amend
ments were made and reported : on mo
tion, the bill was recommitted to a l'eleft
committee. A mefTage from the Prjfi
dent of the United States that he had this
day approved and signed the ast for re
pealing the laws laying duties on beads
imported for breed ; and the ast making
provision for the persons therein named—
The Senate's amendments to the bid for
regulating trade and intercouife with the
Indian tribes, were agreed to—as also the
amendments of the Senate to the supple
mentary bill for establishing judicial courts.
A mefTage from the Senate, that they had
pasTed a bill providing an annual allowance
for the education of Hugh Mercer, son of
the late general Mercer ; also, that the
President of the United States had appro
ved and signed the additional ast for ex
tending the time limited for fettling the
accounts between the United States and
the individual dates. The amended bill
from the Senate for fixing the time of the
next meeting ofCongrefs, was rend. This
proposes the lad Monday in December
next, which amendment was negatived. A
mefTage from the Senate that they have
pasTed the ast for ascertaining the fees in
admiralty proceedings in the diftrift courts
of the United States, with amendments.
The bill from the Senate for defraying the
expesces of Hugh Mercer's education was
read the firft time : the second reading be
ing opposed as unconditional, and the
quedion for rejtfting the bill being nega
tived, the bill was referred to a committee
of the whole. An edimate of additional
appropriations for 1793 from the Secreta
ry of the Treasury, being read, it was re
fe/redtoa feleft committee, to repoit a
bill. Mr. Giles, after several introductory
remarks, moved a number of resolutions
censuring the Secretary of the Treasury
for several tranfaftions. These resolutions
were seconded by Mr. Findley, and laid
on the table. A mefTage was received
from the President, with a copy of an ast
of the legislature of New-York, ceding to
the United States the jurifdift on of a fpe
cified quantity of land at Montock Point,
on Long Island, for the purpose of erect
ing a light house. A letter was read from
the Secretary of the Treasury, including
a report of the accounting officers of the
treofury, on his accounts to December
31, 1792. A report was read from the
Secretary of the Treasury, with an abitraft
of the exports of the United States ; re
ferred for report to a feleft committee
Adjourned to this evening, 6 o'clock.
Wednesday Kvening, Feb. 27
The Senate's amendments to the bill for
ascertaining the fees of admiralty courts ol
the United States, were concurred in.
The bili to re-imburfe the loan from the
bank of the United States, was taken into
confidcration in committee of the whole ;
the intered and instalment due on JanQary
1, 1793, to be paid out of the monies al
ready borrowed in pursuance of an exid
ing act. Ordered to.be engrofTed. Two
other bills were likewise ordered to be en
grofTed, the one, for passing a certain sum
to the credit of John Banks, the other for
the support of light houses not yet csdeJ
>
to the United States. A motion was
made arid Seconded, that a committee be
appointed(t° report a bill for an increase
of pay to (the commifliener of the revenue
and audito'r of accounts ; laid on the table.
A motion Ws aifo laid on the table, that
in cafe they state of Pennsylvania, or the
capital, do not make the proper arrange
ments for th\e accommodation of the next
Congress, the Prelident of the United
States be authorized to provide for the
fame, out of unappropriated monies ia the
treasury.
W A T C H E S.
ROBERT LESLIE,
CLOCK, and WATCH MAKER, No. 167,
MarkeC-ftieet.
AFTER returning his sincere thanks To his
friends, and the public in general, for tiie
great encouragement he has experienced since tb >
commencement of his bofinefs in this city, ta.kcs
this opportunity of informing them that, in. con
sequence of his intention of going to London in A
pril next, he is feliing otf, at very reduced prices,
his stock in trade, confuting of a very large and
general afiartment of enamelled and plain gold,
giit and silver, caDt, a>.d capr a i l ' veiled
WARRANTED WATCHES,
Mod of which are of the latelt importation and
p.eweft fafhion,—A'fn a.uariety of the highe& fi
nifhed cut steel, and gilt, ladies and gentlemen's
Watch Chains, Keys, and Trinkets, toge
ther with a few Gold Chains, Keys and Seals.
Philad. Jan. 16, 1793. ef.tf.
Philadelphia, January 12, 1793.
MATHEW CAREY
Refpectfully informs the Citizens of the
United States, that the Maps for his
intended edition of
Guthrie's Geography
IMPROVED,
Are now engraving—and as soon as a fufficlent
number of them are finifhed, to secure a regular
supply during the publication,which will proba
bly be early next Springy the work will be put
to press.
He returns his acknowledgments to the very
refpeftabJe number of fubfefibers, wh have come
forward thus earlv to patronize thjs arduous un
dertaking. He allures them and the public in
general, thaf no pains or expence ihail be spared in
the execution of the work.
Terms cf tie Work :
I. IT Hiall be publiihed in 48 weekly num
bers, each containing three iheets, or twenty-sou r
pag~s, of letter press, in quarto, printed with new
types on fine paper.
11. Jn the course of the work will be delivered
about thirty large maps, of the fame size as those
in the European editions, viz. naoft of them
maps on post paper.
Bejtdes the w.i Jj in the Britiflo Edition,
tl's •work wf / contain nine or ten American States
Maps,
HI. The pHr? of rarh fimr.lei .vT?I be a quar
ter dollar, to be paid on delivery.
No advance requ'ind.
IV. Subferkbers wh > disapprove of the work,
on the publication of the three firft numbers, are
to be at liberty to return them, and shall have
their money repaid.
V. The fubferibers* names fliall be prefixed as
; patrons of the undertaking.
%* Subscriptions received in Philadelphia by
the intended publifhrr j in New-York, by all the
booklcUers ; in New-Haven, by M. Beers : ia
Hartford, by Mr. Patten j in LSofton, by
Tboma# and Andrews, and by Mr. Weft ; ir
Baltimore, by Mr. Rice j in Richmond, by l.*r.
J. Carey ; in Charleston, by Mr, W. P. Young,
and by sundry other persons throughout the Uni
ted States. lawtf
Philadelphia & New-York
STAGES,
D Y WAY OF
BURLINGTON, BO R DENTON, & SOUTH
AMBOT—
TX7ILL start from Samuel Cooper's Ferry, oppo
* fire to Philadelphia, every Sunday and Wed
nesday morning, during the winter season, and
airive at South-Amboy on Monday, and Thursday
evenings—where a good boat will be ready to con*
vey Goods and Pafiengers to New-York.
The Stage boats will leave New York every
I Monday arid Thursday, so «s to meet the Stages
I from Philadelphia at Amboy, to proceed for Phi
-1 ladeiphia next day. Ail Baggage belonging to
pafiengrrsto be at tljeir own rif^ue.
I All Goods forwarded by the Stages on bill, to
| be under the particular care of the Proprietors of
! the Stages j but not warranted sgain-ft robbery or
damage—And all entering, cleaiing and permits,
to be paid by the owners of goods.
Price of a pafiage from Cooper's ferry to New-
York, - £0. iS. 9.
zcolb. of Goods, to pay the price of a paiTage.
All Way paftengers, 3d pei mile.
AMOS HUTCH IN, and 7 For Burling -
NICHOLAS SCHENCK, \ ton line/
VAN EM3URGH & M'KEAN,? For Borden
and DAVID WILLIAMSON, } ton line.
January 16, 1793. [law. w.
For fate, at the printing office, afe w copies
j of the firQ volume of the National Gazette.
PRINTED BY
C 111 LD S AND SWAIN E,
AT THEIR OFFICE N0.209, HICH-iTRIfST,
JJEAR FIFTH-S TRfIT,
fHIVAP£Lft|IA«