By P. FRENEAU: (at No. 209, Market Street) PubliJlnd Wednesdays and. Saturdays, [.Three Dollars per annum 2
Numb. 72 of Vol. ll.]
PHILADELPHIA.
July ift. 1793.
X. A. PICHON, a French Citizen at Phi
ladelphia, to M. COTELLE.
S1 n,
A S it is more than probable that your let
ter-x- to Citizen Genet will remain
unanfwtred, I conceive it to be the duty
offnch French citizens ai are acquainted
with oil! Well India affairs, to point out
to the public the sycophantic intimations it
contains, and to warn American citizens to
pay as little attention to calumniators from
the Welt Indies as they have done to the
slanderous report* of the emigrants from
Europe. ' *
I am fcnfible, fir, that a full and tho
rough investigation of fails flioukl be sub
joined. to support such a preliminary in
junction, and this I have e-jcry means in my
power to do. At the fame time, lam al
together unwilling to call out of their
peaceful tomb of oblivion, the bloody pro
ceedings which for three years pait have
disgraced your country ; and it is with the
greatefl reluctance that I take a painfui
review oi those horrid scenes, some ol
which I hare been 311 eye- witness tu : in
deed, fir, I have been so unfortunate as tc
reside in your island, and in that very town
from whence you came. Thanks to the
obfeurity in which I lived,l was allowed to
look at the epidtrmocrafnal tyranny when
it was at its zenith. Yes—l have witnessed
the murdei-ous and doieful consequences
ot a fyflem nonsensical in the extreme.
Documents of these tranfa£lioris are now
in my hands, anil poflibly the time may
coine when I shall let the world know that
our white people of the Well Indies have
out done the Spaniards in absurd and ridi
culous fyfterm, and arleall equalled them
3n baseness and ferocity.
You seem to affec) a very sincere cort
tfifn 101 llie natioital laws. which, you pre
tend, have been trampled upon by the na
tional civil coinmiffioners.—Sir, your
Jneaninjt muA be, beyond all doubt, that
they enforced the execution of those laws
ajainfl which you have waged war these
three years past. Nobody but YOU (your
colour I mean) has been guilty of an in
fringement of those very la ivs you had sworn
to support. Nobody but you opposed the
Sovereignty of the people, and the DE
CREES of their reprefentativea.
It the na.;ie oi FRENCHMAN had become
fcurdenfome to you, if after an examinati
on of your principles and situation you had
discovered that a political regeneration
"would never suit men of your cafi; then a
fair and open conduct was to be preferred :
you ought to have declared to the world
that you never meant to have aiharein the
glorious toils of Franc*, and that the feaft oi
FREEDOM was a fpeciesof entertainment
illy adapted to your degenerate ftomarhs.
You ought not, however, to advocate
our laws and oppose them afterwards.
"Whenever a coiony becomes weary ofir>
mother country, it is no more than jufi
that they should /hake off its yoke, and, il
its independence is opposed, wa<re war a
gainst it. But you add insult to injury.
You called for a separate conflitution, arid
ia the meantime set yonrfelves up for re
formers of OUR OWN !
For three years part your conduct ha:
been little else than a series of unprinci
pled pride, unsettled schemes, and un
bounded ferocity .... You have entered
the field in defence of the bloody, but
childish prejudices of -our females—yoi,
have waged war against the'pe»pl e of co
lour [mulattiiesj with poignard, wheel,
and gallows, while beari'ng the Olive
Branch of Peace, they proffered you theii
prayers and intreaties !—Your manoeuvre:
have been conflamly in the dark, and th<
wound given under the veil of secrecy
CONVINCED, at length, of the abfurdit;
of your claims, you were flill too obsti
nate to part with them. No less than foui
different colours had been displayed ji
*yotir towns: internal divisions have giver
you up, hands and feet tied, to the citizen:
ot colour who, steady to the principle;
they set our upon, and flrongly encamped
on iuaffailable mcuntains, have putfued j
fixt and energetic line of conduit, fron
wliich neither success or calamity have pre
vailed onthein tc deviate.
This being the cafe, was it not h : gh time
for the representatives of the French nati
on to put an effectual (lop to such fata! in
testine difl'ention.", particularly when the',
-were threatened by an external foe, wliofe
-* See National Gazette, No. 174,
SATURDAY, July 6, 1793.
invasion it was more than probable the
whites had a mind to facilitate in order to
crush fhofe citizens of colour whom, by
their own confeflion, they were always by
tnemfelves too weak to subdue. In fucii
circumflances was it not the true interelt
of the nation to secure in the island that
ciafs of Iteady citizens who would defend
it to death ; and to favour it rather than a
clafj of an other description, who, always
divided among themselves, could never
furnifh one fourth part of their number, as
men to be depended on. That part of the
white people who were patriots were al
ways floating between the interef't of the
country and that of their own pride. The
firft power that would have pledged itfelf
to re-inflate them in their unnatural rights
would have gained *hem over to their lide;
while the citizens of colour would nor have
liefirated between a revolution which allot
ted them their true place, and a counter
revolution by means of which, supposing it
to have be-en fuccefsful. they would have
been funk lower in political conlequence
than at any former period.
hrom what has 6t*en faicl it is not at all
surprizing to fee here certain Cockaded-
GentleMen from the French Weft In
dies. It is true, they were patriots, but
on condition of their pride being spared :
and although they apparently submitted tc
the law s, Hill they had sworn in their hearts
and before the great god of their pride,
that when ever opportunity should offei
;hey would take a lignal and memor; bie
retaliation. The national commifHoner
having therefore divided all oppofers into
two (ilaffes; the firit including all those
guilty of L?ze nation ; the second, ftich as
had caught the tpidermocratical mania.
Tfte former were embarked for France,
for trial; the latter inve been Pent over tc
this continent to cool their raging blood
by the respiration of the whoifome air oi
liberty and equality.
Colonics of the French Weft Irdfc;". I
accuse you before the whole world of hav
ing fill lied the name of Frenchmen. Jdo
accuse you of having ©ppofed the execution
ul the mandate f for convoking the
general, lo far as it regarded. tiie people of
-olour. I accuse you of having trampled
under foot the decree of the eighth oi
[Vic*ich, and the 4th article of the annexed
mfinittions. \ 011 loudly oppoled the law
of the 15th of May, before it came into ex
igence, and you proclaimed open war a-
it after it pa fled into a decree; and,
thro' the influence of your agents at
Paris, you opposed its being sent to the
ifiands, till you had time to kindle ti>c
Sanies of diffl-rition and frighten the
national afTembly from its firft resolu
tions. I accuse you of having put arms in.
to the hands of your (laves. When the ari
frocrats were planning a counter revoluti
on, you were always unwilling to unite
yonrfejves with the citizens of colour ir
order to oppose tliem,& the daily increaf
ing torrent ot inlurre£Hons. I accuse you of
having cut off all hopes of union by prac
ticing cruelties J contrary to the laws ol
war, and by threatening an independence
w hich you were neither strong nor harriv
enough to undertake. I accuse you of
having ligwed treaties and concordats\f« ord
111 hand, and of having meditated murders
a.id devaluations at the moment you were
giving the cordial embraces of reconcilia
tion. In fliort, lb loaded are you wits
crimes, that there is scarcely any thing ot
which I might not justly accuse you.—
Take this then as a warning, fir, and reft
aiiured that there are men here fufficientlv
acquainted with your affairs to prevent
any imposition on the people of the United
States, on tiiat score.
+J: is certain that the committee of re
cognition of the constituent afiembly
nau ackowledged the deputies from the
J'eople of colour, hut by what measure
they were afterwards rtjetfed. time will
(hew— See Mirabe ai's letter to his conlii.
tuents—and v erbai Proces of the conftitu
ent afiembly. '
i Mr. Cotelle has probably not sor P n t
Mat venerable old man whom they burnt
alive in a flow fire ?t Aux-Cayes, for bav
ing niade a gallant defence at the canir
Mercy. *
Exirati of alttterfrom a gentleman in Phi
ladelphia, to his Correfpevdent in Ne-w
---iork. dated 2tth rfjjive. 1793.
. " There seems to be a flrong inclination
infome of our e > •• utive officers of the
United States to keep, mod of their pro
ceedings fecretfrom the public; and this
lufpicjon is still gaining more force, from
tbeirlate condnft in regard to the prize fliip
William, which was captured by the French
privateer Citizen Genet, at more than 30
niiJesfrojn the American coast; although
some sailors aboard offered to fvvear that
(he wap only at 2 or 3 mil-.s distance.
"He this a-; it may,it has not been brought
in evi- i'nci Into the hue trial b'fore the
•idniir. - .nji't 'or the Pennlylvania diftriil
— the -irt would only hear the arguments
>n the i a*;le question of its own jurirdifti
an; anc by the decree of judge Peter's it
appear was expected,that the court ba>
io jvrrild ifion or powers to interfere in
.he'condemnation or refloration of prize!
aken by ;he French, &c. So soon as this
lecree was known, t,,e captors were about
o taße tf'e "lip into their own charge,
'vheiiav, ry unexpired order iflued from'
:ne executive of the United States, addref
ed to Governor Mifflin, directing him t<
call out ti c militia and put a ftron-r auard
iboaul tin-prize, in order to prevent the
raptors flop) taking pofieffion of her. The
]«,ht infantry wrre accordingly called out
ln,! iWrformed duty for two or three dayi
« ithout kr owing (or whatpurpofe, except
■•"om the ri oris of the town, which weie.
ti).;. it • js to prelerve the prize from
seing burnt or ran away with by the Brfrtfb
ailors. tAnd the infantry were so far
impofcd by public report, as well ji
"e" '" v,: "cnieilures. But hew great
was 'heir a 'oniihment when the truth was
it length '-jfcovered. viz. that they had
Je ' n gnardjiig the ftiip f, on, the cantors!
and / r taeiiritilh !- Fhey then solemnly
ietl red, at least I have heard many of
then f :y f>, that had rhey known the real
-aufe- (,'( keing called out, they would uot
lavei . eyed the governor's orders.
0 ! t ■on of tiie Executive of the
'' r — ! State? imposing this duty on Go
■erin. M>3 aii for he oslyafled under that
tuthc" ; ;; ,4 to be this, viz. that as
•he -~val.y court lind declared its own
P&i ." vto J ;fl ge of the limits of its own
uritiiiction, ic WC) therefore neccffarv for
:.ie Piei.dent to ( e p forward and seize the
irize, and detain it in cuftodyof the Unit
ed Strifes until filch time as it could be
i?teri„i -led, whether (he was captured
i\ . . the bounds of the protection of the
united States.
"This, Ijowever, is only fttrmife; for
granting it to have been the real motive
which urged the President to the step lie
ook, ftili it would have been but fatisfac
t«y to the public to have had some expla
nation of the business, without vnakinr inch
I piece of u otlcof it. The'con
equence has been, as I am informed that
governor Mifflin felt himfeif in rather an
uikward situation; and as he had been
rocrto on the duty of guarding the French
prize, he wiflied to be discharged by the
ame authority. But the President left
town on a visit to Mount Vernon, in the
niolt of this dispute, and the French Con
lul entered a warm protefl: against the
whole proceedings; declaring, "that no
power on earth has a right to interfere
between the French republic audits ene
mies that this print iple was acknowledg
ed in the late deciljon of the admiralty
court, and the prelent an eft and detention
by a guard, of ihe prize, was an outrage
agaiiill the authority of the official iunciions
of ihe miifter, & c . of the republic."
copy of the protefl: w as fc nt by Mr. Du
pont, the French Consul, to governor Miff-
In: i But before it had reached him, he had
dilpatched a letter to Mr. Dupont, inform
ing him that the flnp William, now in cuf
tocy of a party of the militia of Philadel
phia, would be delivered to him whenever
he thouK. please to apply; in consequence
of an arrangement between the Secretary
of State and the mil. e r of France by
which it was agreed, (as the fecretarv at
war informed governor Mifflin,) that the
fmp V iliiam (hall be placed in his, the Con
sul s, poflefnon,until it is determined, whe
ther l ,e was taken within the limits of the
protection oi the United States.
" 1 heguard was confequentlydifmilTcd.
and the Consul took possession of the Wil
ham, and soon after delivered her to the
owner who purchased her at public auCuoii
some time ago. ""
"From this it tr.uft be canjeSured, that
the fecretar:e> of state, war, & c . n-.iift have
o ( fcha,,ed governor Mifflin from the dutv
.'i the ahfence of the President, and it also
appeal... that they only consented to reflore
,\' e p " 7 ' e conditionally, which by some is
-..ougljt to be taking into their hands a
power of ; o ; , <h-u in ,d,e , aw, ,r rft
° . , ; for there is no law vet exitiir,,
which oejnes "the limits of the protection
t.,f I sited States," whatever Congress
[Total Numb. 176.
may hereafter do to ena a one; and tin,'
we are led to think that both the arrest of
the vessel and the restoring her were „n
---authorized pro codings. I would be furry
■nous be iHJed Puf'Hani
'/IndeedifNEt. rnAL.TY betheGREAT
Wd wise aim of our executive, it seems
strange that any offence should have been
committed against the French of s uc h con
frquence as to foree the Consul to enter a
protest against it; and that this is the cafe
« well as that I have Hated the whole hu'
■ inefs tolerably accurate-you may rely on
H,y information. I have rend the uro'teft
and alio the governor's letter.
rhlr M he r- COrj f h,reS ,lave place
that Mr. Genet has had a negotiation „ ith
a " d :i ' at hl has - ftnted
to take bacKthe prize, on the conditions
rather too tamely. It is ,!f„ fa d l); h >
sxsafss* 6 "*—
aa with the utmost firmnefs and dignity
have not a doubt, for f mly believe h u
to or one Of the best men upon earth inde
jSXifm!" 2 '"' " l " i " " d "■
; ;;ch a such a cause as that ofTit
"erty itfelf, with the coolness, that has
oeenfn peaed, I hope without foundation
oefides u would be afling dian ouicallvin
opposition to the GENERAL 4ENi IM ENf
•America, and we are not yet, God be
prajfed, under the command of such an ar
government. 33 to have the laws
iim j° 11 f ' ai,d tlle execution of th-m
managed contrary to our folenin and d™
tcrmiucd principles. Surely, if thcre L
n° :re Solomons for
their wisdom in prefervinrr peace witL R„
tain and Spain, & c . they' ovrhl n« tShl
" the,r towards France
and yet faic things of late v'sir a ft,- '
appearance of fear or /avoritVfm m J S
ether of the ho,tile
= M ,c eand honor, guide lls %££
In the pleadings before n
on this fubje- t, Mr Lewi,, coenlei
hri 'fii, amongst oiher a ,g u ,, , nts to
ill ri fdi cti o'l'in'the ca ft"'ve< f,' 'th at were
United States had no such power therefore
mere was thegreateft reason lor the co„ r u
interference. This was the fubiiance of
v hat Mr. Lewis declared. Vol we f i
that the executive did afterwan s £ -<ercife
this power, which Mr. Lewis denied,
a right to do. Nay, they feiijed the pH™
nice, fii'ft by then- marshal, and, fecondlv
by a guard oi nuliua. The result , ,h t ,'
day known, viz. the court difchar.ee the
hrft arreff and the guard v.., s difcWed
the I.ord knows htu— by nefrociation I
are told ! ajid m the abfence"of the p'refi
dent ot the I n.ted States.-It israrlKThu
m,hating, however, to think that our !
v eminent should shew i Cs own weakneis
in grasping twice at a power which it was
not able to maintain."
E ' : ! r ,? l J r iT aPamPflietJ«/ipt'blifheden
titled Letters to the y eomenry of
the United States. f
On whatever fide we turn our eyes we
fee nothing in nature that is nor gov, - nefl
bylaw, proper to its exiflence, &\v hich ~
not organized m a manner to obey such
laws , to.acquire every succour which is
agreeable to the nature of its being, or r
ceffary to the mode of its exigence M ? „
is no negated by his Creator-the i f ts
which to him are particular, and which
give h.m the empire of the world, "
that happmefs and prosperity are defgned
or him, and an orderpr.per to ensure hha
he enjoyment of them. That heaven bora
French philanthropy which regards all
mankind as brethren, is so far superior to
the imderffandmgs of mod r n liatefmen
and final? < ers, as to be the object rather of
denlion tin,, of imitation, tut which eve
ry government mufl adopt in order to be
lomeprofpercns and happy.
The period of man's aftiye life is too
fioit, and his powers too weak to afford
Mm more than a comfortable sup; ly 0 f „e
---ciflanes ot life, therefore the Hipei fbrities
of lome men, whether acquired by a£>inl
plunder or by nnjuft laws, must iniWeon
the rights of others: this being ac'ually"Che cafe, with what horror mud every good
•citizen regard a funding (yftem, by which
a great proportion of the labour of ufefull
and indudrious citizens becomes due to a
preceding generation in their graves, and
becomes payable to a few iilelefs charac-;
ters of their own day, whose Wealth and
disorderly lives tend to corrupt the govern
ment, and undermine the liberties of their
'country.
The reform of modes bf government are
bleff:;igs only in proportion as they promote
the liberty and happiness of the people. To
fatisfy the ambition of one class of men and
the avarice of another, the Americans have
Submitted to afecond revolution, by which
they have bjrtered their domedic right!,
liberty and equality, for energy of govern
ment and the etiquette of a court. After
having wreftea the feeptre from thehand of
a British tyrant, they have fuff'ered it to be
assumed by a monied aridocracy, where it
will be found more oppreflive and more in
jurious to the people. The excise law of
Congrefi, which viola*esthe domestic rights
of the farmer, and the incorporating decrees
of the Ita'e legislatures, by which the pro
perty of the farmer is wantonly f.icrificed
to a rich monied interest, are alarming ex
ertions of this power.
The more a nation is compact and the
power of government left in the hands of
the people, the more we (hall find that love
for the public good, that general edeem
for virtue, and that difuitereltednefs whicn
are held in light edimation by the fupport
crs ofa grand and extensive empire, where
public councils and emoluments of the (late
are wholly in the handa of the few, and
where the people are neglected, despised
and opprefled.
To ihe People c/Tennsylvania.
TTAVING palled my time lately in the
Uack country, where I could not be
favoured with the current news of the day,
I have been prevented from either feeing
what has been written on the fubjeft of
Canals, Turnpikes, &c. or ofgiving my
opinions thereon.
My sentiments may, perhips, by Tome, '
be considered worthy of attention, by others
neglected ; however they may be received,
I think it my duty to defend, to the utmod
as my ability, every poor man, against the
lawless power of the rich, whose arbitrary
encroachments upon the jull privileges oif
man, are now alarming.
Several acts have palled rn this ar well as
in other Hates, which have a direst tenden
cy to annihilate that confidence which in
dividuals were wont to place in their re
presentatives.Some atls are pro tempore, &
according to their evil tendency will fooo
er or later be annulled or corrected. There
are other acts which do not seem so imme
diately toWffect, but their future agency is
more fatal.
Legislators are not merely elected to
preserve the exiding laws, to extend them,
to ena£t others according to the original
spirit of the conflitution, but te guard the
publicrightsfrom trespass, as well as the
individual. How far the legillators of this
state have aSted confidently with their
milt we (hall examine.
It will be nefcelfary to premife-'-
ill. That the legislature has no power j
' to give away the public property.
2d. The legislature has no power to in-'
fringe private property without the plea ef
necejfity. and for the public good.—
These premises cannot be denied—But
the public property has been given by the
legislature to t private company (which is
the fame as to a private individual) in ma
ny instances, and particularly in the high
way to Lancaster. It belongs to the pub
lic, and in spite of all the sophistry of iaw
quibblers, cannot be ceded to individuals—
This power has never been delegated to
the legislature, and to afliimeit is tyranni
cal!
It may be urged by those who desire ac
commodation at the expence of privilege,
that if the power of amending, and draw
ing a profit from, the high ways, were not
veiled in a private company, it would not
be executed at all. I do not grant this, for
as the Hate is free from debt, and capable
of placing i n anunneceffary bank(edabli(h
ed for mere oppofition&private accommo
dation )fo large a funi of money as they have
lately done, what difficulty would there be
in directing a portion of so large afum to
the making of public roads, especially if
neceflary? Were this done by the date,
the tolls might be so regulated as to pro
duce twenty or ten percent, according to
its general or partial use. The people
would willingly pay to support a road
which belongs to them, because though the
tax were heavy, it would make other taxes
lighter; for whatever is gained by the
public at large, is gained by every indivi
dual. If the expellees ofthe road brought
in a large profit, the slate would be enabled
to extend the public works on every fide ;
and though it might, at firft, seem to iiu
pofe an unneceffiry tax upon that part of
the community which is too remote to
feel the benefits of a local improvement,
the tax is already collected, and the interest
might be so high, as to latisfy the molt dis
tant members of the date that the public
money was well applied. If the rights are
ceded to individuals, where are the bene>-
fits to the community ? They are fuffered to
accumulate interest upon interest, while
the national moitey is deposited in a bank,
where there cannot be so high an interelt,
nor so fafe a deposit 1 —
I will fay a few things concerning the
Can»l which is in embryo.
The second part of what was premised
includes two confederations—'The plea of
nccejfity ar.d public good. —
People of Pennf) Ivania, beware '.
Is it neceflary that the property of an
individual flull be taken away to enrich
another individual ? The canal company
is a private company, and the legislature
hai no power, whatever, to force any per
Jon into a cejjinn of his land, for the emolu
ment of another, Upon any pretext! They
seize the land, open a paflage, and desire
an appointment of arbitrators—The peo
ple have submitted—perhaps many from
an idea it may be ufeful to them,in thefeca
fes they make private agreements; both par
tiej are fatisfied,& I am fatisfied .But if the
company pretend, in virtue of any powers
derived from the date representatives, to
enforce a compliance with their willies, it
becomes an uncotiftitutional and unlawful
a£t. The plea of n?ceflity cannot be taken
here, for no man is endangered by the
want of a canal. If the idea of public
good be resorted to, the public cession of
the turnpike road, to a private company,
is a direit denial of what is urged ; for, if
the public do not think it of diffident con
sequence to induce them to undertake it,
the reason is plain ; viz. it will not pay
the expence, without laying toto great a
burthen upon them ; and if it will not be
productive,that is, if it will not exceed the
common interest of money, without bsing
oppreflive to the people, how Jhall it be
productive of ten or fifteen per centum,
without a molt opprellive and injurious
toll ?—lt is in vain to recur to the firft ob
servation, of its being left undone, if not
executed by a private company—because,
though the date may not at tAis juncture
consider itfelf fufficiently rich, to advance
money on public works, the time cannot
be distant, when that objefrion (if admit
ted now) can have the flisdow of validity,
tffpecially when we consider the many
taxes, duties, and imposition ,; under which
we at present groan 1 I 1
Every man whose land is trefpafled up
on, by either the high-way diggers, by or
der of a private company, or by the canal
makers in the fame predicament, has an un
doubted right, t» takehis mnfh't and defend
his property; unless, uninfluenced by the '
fear of an arbitrary law of the state, he t
has made a private bargain With the com
panies.
Every man arriving at a trunpike-gate,
eftablilhed by a private company, 1 has a
right to force his paflage, tt armis;
as he a£ts only against hlghu<ay-vi;ii, who
contrary to the constitution ol the coun
try, prevent his progress I
A Servant of the People.
Philadelphia, June 28, 1793-
''For the National Gazette,
Mr. FreneAU,
T AM fully convinced that the generil
; principles of your Gazette differ totally
from my own ; notwithflanding which, a*
I vailing inyfelf of democratic generosity,
I flatter myfelf you will afford these few
reflections a place in your paper (how in
differently soever they m*y be written) to
the end that the ntblejfe of America as
well as my own countrymen (of equal dig
nity with myfelf; may lend their aid in
support of the common catje.
In the escape which I luckily made from
the late unfortunate Trench court, I loft
all my feudal property, of immense value
which had descended to me from my an
cedors. I was an excellency by being
duke of A. Marquis of B. and count of C;
and, infhort, lord of the whole alphabet.
All this I fuffered with the magnanimity of
a man, as. far as my own interests were
concerned/but I will candidly confels the
fevered blow I experienced was the un
timely exit of my once gracious sovereign
Louis the sixteenth. TofpHl that blood
by the Guillotine, which was tlfe feed of
all nobility, and pure as the (Ireamj that
flow from the gardens of paradif'e, how
hard, how cruel an affront, how greatly to
be resented 1 It was undoubtedly a viola
tion of one of the mod: (acred duties of
mankind ; they ought to have remembered
that, enlightened asihe world has become,
there is still an immense diltance between
the king and the vuffal, the master and the
slave. The perpetration of this sanguina
ry act was therefore atlealt equal ill enor
mity to the crime of that traveller who kil
led a thief on the high way merely because
he had robbed his father.
You will all', me, perhaps why I fliould
take so warm an interelt 011 this queftian,
as I do—but please to observe. Sir, that al
tho' wholly unknown to Joseph or Leo
pold, the prince o.f Pruflia, or the queen
ofthe two Sicilies,! have notwithltandiftg
had the honour of being for some moments
the brother in law of personages as impor
tant as them —and this is one reason for
the invectives I utter.
At the present juncture the new govern
ment of France pretends to be mild, jult
and fugacious : but that will aot ato:;e for
its having aflcd on a late occasion at once
against found policy, nature, and religion.
They did not act with policy, bccanfe it
was certain the ast of taking away the
king's life would unite all the Catholic
& protestant powers against them in a ge
neral war, which would be a fad draw
back to the fpcedy elevation of the repub
lic, and would be the cause of utter ruin to
all such democrats as Aiould fall within the
reach of their pernicious claws. Secondly,
they infalted religion because the inajefty
of France was the mo ft C"hriflian in the
whole world—lt was (thirdly) unnatural,
because they did to Louis, what not a sin
gle member of the convention would have
chofeu to have had done for himfelf.
What anfvver can be urged tothefeun
anfwerable reasons—Where is the learned
patriot that can give me a categorical re
ply ?
Another great source of my disquiet, as
well as of several other deserving Ameri
can friends,is in the word EQUALITY.
Would toGod I had applied niyfelf a lit
tle more to fiudy instead of wafting the
prime of my clays in riding the great horse,
dancing, caroufin-g, and frothy coaverfati
on. In that cafe every writer would have
vanished before my fuipendous abilities—
nature has been profufe to me in mental
gif ts, but for want of attention, practice,
and observation, I fcarccly know how to
write in a Itile above contempt. Now,
indeed it would star.d me in some stead,
and alter having been concerned in giving
laws, I might find it to my interest to give
some leflons To tell the truth, I w»ih the
very thoughts cf niy former elevation an
nihilated.
How unpolite the praflice of the mecha
nics and low people in this country to
walk the streets without taking off their
hats and bowing to gentlemen as they pass!
Is jt repugnant to one's feelings to'fee a
ma 11 who I would riot choose for my foot
man, pretending to be rry equal ! My
philofopby subscribes to no such thing.—
My birth, character, and flatinn have con-'
vinced me that there is a prodigious differ
ence between me and a tayior. However,
it is too true that the u orld goes all on the
wrong fide of the question. Even the co
lour of things is changed, and of late the
blue, white,and >edfairly fick-.iin:y organs
of vilion.
0 then dear, ancient court of France !
once the delegable and brilliant!—but it
is now all over, and dismal mourning has
spread its midnight mantle over the beau
tiful and splendid fun of royalty. Religi
on itfelf is no more. Lords and dukes are
metamorphosed into vagabonds. A tho
rough change seems to have taken place,
and every article of former belief is thrown
a fide ! Ye gods ! I do not deflre you to
change water into wine ; far the 1 rench
have already enough of it. However, two
or three dozen of miracles might not be
-.ifilels at the present time — Nay, it is pos
sible they might re-convert the people to
their tow discarded creeds.
1 will coafeft to you. Sir,that were Vin
cent Ferrers* alive (eventho'he should
have advanced his former price) I would
freely hire him to perform as many mira
cle-- as would thoroughly frigh'teu the
whole- assembled convention for what they
I have done„and warn them in future never
to put a king to death again.
1 shall conclude with acquainting all our
dear- cro[[td chevaliers and gentlemen,
French and American, that a plan is now
drawing up for constituting a new arilto
cratical society, at the head of uhf.ch is tj
be a great secondary character in America
who is so xealous, acbive, and learned an
advocate of ourdoGrines that he has com
pletely and entirely confuted a noted de
mocratic writer, now in.Francc, and pro
ved his opinions to be wild and absurd in
the extreme.
Some Americans may with difficulty be
brought to believe it. but we kno.v, to a
nicety, who are our friends in this country,
in the name of whom 1 am authorized to
faythat aristocracy.a mocie of government,
so hated and proscribed by some, is Tweet
and delicious to those who are permitted
to have a taste of it, and fuffer me to hint
that it is at this momenf riling where no
body thinks of it, and will go on prosper
ing as the people become more and more
converted to its beauties.
AN ARISTOCRAT.
July 3d. 1793-
* A Catholic faint who wrought mira
cles with such wonderful ease, that the
father confeffor forbade him performing
any more under penalty of cxconununicu
tionfrom holy mother church.
For tie National Gazette.
Mr. FreneAtj,
tT is the wife man's interefl: to be seen
■•■The foul aid ofmafkedduplicity carcalone
be ufeful tothe votaries 0 f fraud, diican ,
fycophanc/, and delign. Tlje public ' -
vants in republican government*
ever to be distinguished by fimr-licity and
rectitude of conduct. This being the cafe,
why then the outcry of the mock " friend
to peace of the long-winded unintelli
gible " freeman" too contemptible to be
noticed ; or of " Pac si *;s," more artful
than both, and of cor.il'j mere dangerous,
in the Rivi/sgtonian and court gazettes,
agninft a fair and impartial examination of
the principles, ami official condu£t of an
exalted chara&er ?
Unless there bejomething rotten in the
Ante of Denmark, official reflitude and re
publican integrity iland not in need of tcry
aid, or rented logic. I repeat, it is the
wife man's interefl: to be seen.
Can gold be rendered less pure by the
repetition of the firey ordeal ? No. Truth
will not shrink from the most rigid scruti
ny. But, Mr. Freneau, what arf we to
expect, when we observe one of the prin
cipal chara£ters in our federal government,
attempting to juftify, nay applaud, the
hellish combination of European tyrants
against the infant liberty of France. The
condudl of this votary of despotism fuffi
cently proves the truth of the refleaions
contained in my former paper. This Au ■
tomedon of prelidential agency, in order
to crulh forever all remarks concerning .
our solicitude for our generous allies, now
struggling for doubtful liberty,fays, " there
are prudential reafenswhichdifl'uadefrom
going largely into this examination, unless
it (hall be rendered neeeflary by the future
turn of the discussion." Foul and scanda
lous insinuation ! O ! abettor of Cartha
ginian faith, blush ! Can you for a mo
ment suppose that the hearts of tie yeo
manry of America are become chilled. and
infenlible to the feelings of intuited human
ity.lrke your own ? Can you think thiitgraj
titude.the molt endearing difpefition of the
human heart, is to be argued away by your
dry sophistry ? Do you suppose that the
freemen of the United f.tates will (ir.tii
gated thereto by duty and interefl) pru
dently thumb over Vatell, Puffendoff,
Lee. Molloy, &c, to ascertain tile sum and
substance of their obligations to the.r ge
nerous brethren the French! No, no.
Each individual will lay his hand upon h:»
heart, and find the amount there : he will
tliere find that manly glow both -of grati
"tudeand io»e which animated his bread
when aftifted by this generous people in
qfiablifliing his own liberty, and iliaking
oS" the yoke of Britilh despotism.
T I M O N.
■•4th July t793.
PHILADELPHIA.
Saturday, Jaiy 6. *
Thurf'lay last, the fourth of July, being
the anniversary of the Independence of
the United States ok America,
was observed here with particular attenti
on and various demonllrations of joy—At
c>ve!"e o'clock a salute was fired, the bells
of Ghrift church continued ringing through
out the day; feverai of iheniitttTa corps
paraded and went through their exercil'es
and firings; many public companies and
private parties aifembled to celebrate tha
day, and in the evening there was a brilli
ant exhibition of fire-works at the upper
end of Market-flreet.
(Prom Paris, April 16.J
After the arrival of the contmiilioners,
-dispatched by the convention to Chantilly,
they went immediately to the Chateau of
the late prince of Cciide, ard having exa
mined feverai of the apartment-, one of
the company remarked ccrtain liitie tur
rets, neatly enough contrived, and wal
led up on everj'fide without tiie lealt aper
"ture ; they were conflrucn-d c-f hewn '.tone
of the..thicknefj of the walls. Finding
that when fir irk. upon, they founded hol
low, they were ordered to be opened, and
within were difcorered a large number of
pieces of artillery, quantities of mufqnets,
culverins, carronades, bluuderbuS'es, bags
of ball?, -buckshot, iron wedges ; linen
rags, velvet carpets, eiubroidercd tillc
cloathes, watches, about three hundred
bundles of paper, air ong which ".. ere ob
served all the genealogy and family tides
of the house of Clermont. Besides all this
there was a number of rich jewels, feme
books of natural hi ft cry, &c.
Mention is made in the Baltimore even
ing polt of July 1. of intelligence being re
ceived by way of Norfolk that the 1 n-lilh
had taken the French ill; nd of St. Lucie—
and that Gen. Dampierre nad defeated the
Auftrians under Saxe Coboufg and Clair
fayt, near Valenciennes; having killed
<1000, and took 1706 prisoners. I>y another
account,directly to this port, v., hear that
the Britijh hi attempting to land a nuniler
of troops on the illand of Martinique, 'ad
been repulsed and driven oh", with u.e
loss of 200 men.
Capt. Lindfey, of the brig Molly lately
arrived here from CapeErancors, informs,
that he saw capt. Brown of Philadelphia,
who told him that he was boarded by ; :<i
Englilh privateer who examined hit pape: s.
Capt. Brown told the captain of the pri
vateer that he belonged to America-.. The
captain of the privateer ordered captain
Brown and his men to the forecaflle ; af
terwards went into the cabin with his
men and ordered his boat under the cab 11
i window, where he plundered everything
he could leize#—fent his boat off, and or
dered n prize mailer en board of a raia
frown's veft'el, to t»e immediately ■Cent to
fam.v'ca. A few days afterwards, falling
i.i with a French 7 j., the Englilh pr;v£[e^£with her prize was taken, and (cut to Cepe
Francois. where capt. Brown was gene
rously treated, ai.l permitted to depart,
lie is bound to tins port.
Extratl of a letter from a gentleman in
Birmingham, (O. i'.)
" I have found out a variety of ir.onev
coining prafticcs here, highly difgraccful,
I think, to the parties, to the country, ami
its laws ; and, in the inltances I lhall
mention, likely to do infinite mifchiefs to
the vast circulation of Spanish lilver in the
USlates. As early as May 1791 they began
"V itli the American copper cent, only upon
r. a ling the resolve of Congress to have
fn'cli ajrioney and the getting over a print
cf the American eagle. There were tliree
different forts of these cents made here;
,tll with the Prefident'.s head, not a bad
ikenefs, and tolerably well executed. I
Ind, however, this was merely an attempt
>f funic artiftsht-re to induce Congress to
give Birr.-i'j&han the order for coinage ol
their copper money. I have seen pattern
cards ol 11..ilings, fix pences, and half pen
ce s so base as to be niaiked tor sale at the
rate of aS, ;o, and 36 (hillings for the gui
nea. Quarter dollars and piftereens (but
principally quarter dollars) are split into 3
or rather four pieces. An exatt triangle
i; taken out of the center. The other
three pieces of debaf'd filter is ueverthe
lefs to be run off as halves of the quarter
dollar. The central triangular piece is a
gain coined down and is left rather plain
111 the dies (which were ihewn to me with
pieces of money) and the. crefcent-formed
pieces struck to, as nearly as pofiible, the
itamp of that part of a real Spanifit milled
dollar. The piltercens were wcrfc execu
ted.
I have 'also seen Dutch ducats, and
dollars, which were done as follows. The
ducat was cut out of a pure piece of foft
lilver to the proper size, and to be eafiiy
bendable in the finger, as pure ducats are.
There is rhen a thick Amalgam of gold
(which is made 01 quick lilver and gold,
and then fqueez'd thro' fhamvny leather)
laid on this foft silt er, and then Aruck in
the press to the lize and marks ol
the Dutch ducat of date 1753. This or
der came through Englifii merchants from
Holland and London, soon after the de
clared and open alfiltancc given by England
to their highand mighty.allies, the Dutch.
The value of those forged ducats is about
one and fix pence sterling, workrqanlliip
and all. They weigh about jdwt. 2grs.
and by weight the real ducat would Cell
here for nearly ten (hillings ; so that here
refti a profit of eight and fix pence on each
piece. Spanilh milled dollars are of three
forts, two only ofwhich I have seen. 1 lie
baferon? 1 > cut from a well silver plated
sheet of copper if a due thickness.and then
hooped round the edge with a silver wire,
so thick as to not expose the copper, if
scraped moderately on the edge with a
knife (a common mode here to detest base
silver) and is then milled to the copied
dye, ofwhich there are more than one
fort. They are so well executed as tc
pass eafiiy among others) and are in value,
workmanship and all, about one and fir:
pence The other, and more pure dol
lars (he artists are more close and fecre!
about, as being a better thing. These,
however, come to Birmingham in real Spa
ni(h or Mexican dollars, bought at the
bank and other places, sent down by lam
carriage, about 20,000 at 0 time in a cask,
and they are melted and recoir.ed. copying
as exactly the old imprefiions, of which
there are three or four forts. 6ut moftl)
the lank visage of his mod catholic majes
ty, nine pence of silver being taken froir
each of the new coinage, aud these new
ones want but little alloy to bring then
to a proper thickness. Two and an hall
or three pence on each piece is ample pa)
to the artilt here for dies, reclining, fend
ing back to London, and all other expen
fcs.
So 11: 31 the public, upon whom they are
put, Jose nine penfce in every four and fi>
. pence, and the emitter has a clear benefil
of fix pence on each. Upon close investi
gation, no doubt remainsupon my mind bill
ihey are meant for the Weft Indies and
the United States. Six tons of them, and
of other silver, have been so melted dowr
since the beginning of August last. The
parties were very secret as to nafiies, but
dropped to me (upon being closely pufhedj
it was done fcy them under an order in a
regular way from a house in London,
wholly in the Eajl India line, and that
those dollars were meant for theeaft ; but
this cannot be the cafe, the people in that
country being very nice and scrupulous a;
to silver imported coins. I have actually
heardprofejfional men (one in the church
and the other a physician) fpeuk of know
ing fomcwhat of this last coinage, aud ha
ving recommended an artist for the pur
fiofe of doing it !!!
djfignats, in quires, both stamped and
signed, as well as in blank undamped, with
the proper paper and all the French words
ueceflary in the water mark are executed,
es I was told, in London, and sent hither
for the engraving, printing and finifliing
flrokes. The head of poor Louis, howe
ver, (which is done by a stamp, the fame
as is on the bills and notes here) appears
row to be a want here, and a loss to these
fentmers ; one of whom told me, curling;
<md execrating the >vat, that he ftoyld
have been ten thoufanef potimU richer ■
the declaration had been delayed a montl
or two longer. Those aflignats which 1
saw vere all for ten, twenty, and twe
hundred livreseach. In like manner, ii
ihe war time, did they forge and counter
feit boxes full of our continental papei
money. In one vefl'el there was taker
lour or live boxes of it, and other;, whicl
got into America, helped much the depre
ciation in 1779. In this plr.ee such prac
tices are held not criminal, but a fair ad
vantage over an enemy; indeed hardl;
any thing elle, Ihort of murder, is crimi
nal among them, for I never yet saw ;
people lo totally devoid of principle, mo
rality, and those leli'er ties which bind anc
unite mankind."
Foreign intelligence (from London) ap
pears in the Bolton Gazette of laO" Mon
day, to May the 9th —Various petition:
line! been presented to the house ol com
nions, f;gned by immense numbers of per
sons praying for a parliamentary reform
Several of thole had been read, and order
ed to lie on the table. In these account:
. l!o aj ■ ears the following extratt of a let
ter, dated (Aullriari) Head Quarters Ge
neral, at Quievrain, May ;, eight 111 tin
evening.
" The French army, feeing that the;
would be attacked, and not wishing ti
have the difadvantagc of being on the ii.-
t'enlive, in which they never succeed
made dispositions this day for a grand at
tack. The battle was general and bloo
dy, and the defeat of the enemy was coin
piece. All their forces were in move
ment before break of day. They march
rd againif our centre, pal Ted Saint Sauve
and advanced to F.flreu. Our advancec
po'.ts not being able to refill a whole am
retired.—They were, however, reinfor
ced, and the French artillery kept up ;
lieavy lire upon them. Our centre, whicl
lad maintained its ground till ten, beinj
overpowered by numbers, gave way, niu
for half an hour fell back; but the lefi
wing did wonders. It attacked the right
wing of the French in flauk, and piercec
The battle was soon renewed in the ccn
ire, and the Fretick were driven beyonc
their camp. The defeat "was so compleat.
that part of the enemy threw themfelve:
nto Valenciennes. The carnage was ve
ry great. The regiment of Barco, above
ill, displayed extraordinary and invincible
tsravery, and avenged the barbarity wit!
>v hich the French had torn out the eyes o1
ane of their comrades, who had fallen intc
heir hands. We have taken from the
■nemy, 15 pieces of cannon, 2» caiflfon:
tiled with ammunition, and the horses
which drew them. The loss of the ene
ny mtift have been considerable : Oun
Joes not amount to 200 men but three ol
jur offi:ers are dangeroufiy wounded.''
Citizen Du Plaine, late of this city, who
s appointed Consul, per Interim, of the
Republic of France, to the commonwealth
>f MaiTachufetts, we are happy to acquaint
:he public, has fafely arrived at Boston.
jut had not yet entered onthe duties of hi-
L>incr.
There are letters In town from Cape
Francois, as late as June 16.—They make
10 mention of the arrival of any troop:
:here. It is, however, probable, from the
ucounts we have reieivedfrom the Wind
ward Islands, that a French fleet of fever;
rail of the line, besides frigates, has arrived
there, or at the adjacent ports.
It is said that admiral Gardner, wlic
commanded the Britifti fleet cis Martinico
disappointed in not hearing of the trOopi
which he-expe£ted from England, had re
turned to JJarbr.does — where, he fount
them just arrived, under convoy of the
vengeance, of 74 guns. Admiral Gardnei
left four fail of the line to block up the
harbours of Martinico ; and it was though:
at the date of our accounts, that he wou'i
inftantlv return to that island, and land the
troops —which are said to be jooo in num
ber.
The snow William, of Baltimore, it
December 1792, on her paiiage fron
Georgetown in Maryland, bound to Cork
fell in with a wreck, in lat. 36, 49, N
'.ong. 63.27, W. with five persons on board,
having loft her mails, her bowsprit (land
ing, new and not painted, high qtiarttr
ileck, green flern, but so low in the watet
as not to be able to diftinguilh her name —
red ochre fides, and had been lately caulk
ed, as the pitch was not scraped off tile
Teams : the William made every exertion
to save the diftrelled, but it blowing fa
hard, it was impossible—making moil)
tacks, got so nigh the wreck as to hear
what one of them said, Wough he being so
low in speech could only elillinguilh they
were from Providence-, and had been five
elays and nights ill that situation. The
William laid by the v.reck. in hopes of
being able to render t'«em alliftance, until
they saw every foul devoured by the
iharks.
According to Brt.Jhis news, retailed
from London papers, Nantz has surren
dered to the victorious arms of the French
counter-revohitionifts —slfo, that the duke
of Orleans (Fgalite) had been carried back
to Paris, "those who were conveying
him to Marseilles being afraid Of meeting
the Marfeillele on the road they add,
that the mountain of AufiiDj cr.e league
from Valenciennes, was taken by the
Auftrians, with several prisoners, and 40
or 50 pieces of cannon ; that Conde was
to be liefiegcd on the 4th day ot" May ;
that the duke of York had beaten the
French who were ported to defend the
weltern part of Flanders, &c.
The captain of the Jane in 13 days frorr
St. Eultatia, informs, that the last account:
ham Martinique when he failed were
that the English had been cannonading fori
Bonrbon with three 74 gun (tips, but hat!
ceased firing and attempted 110 landing.
A report was prevalent at St. Euftatia, faic
to be brought by an Irish vefl'cl arrived al
iiarbadoes, that a negociation for peace
was on foot between England and France.
The fame capt. informed that the Cork
fleet is arrived at liarbadoes. Tbat ar
EngUfli fleet of 160 merchantmen undei
the convoy of 5 (Lips of war had fsilee
from the Weft Indies for Europe : that ;
fifty gun fiiii) and a forty gun frigate, pari
of that convoy, were to leave the fleet in :
certain latitude, fleer for Halifax anc
thence eome along down our coast to pro
tect the Briiiih trade in our quarter. To
bago was open for American proviiion.
In the months of April, May and June
last, there were fliipped at the port ol
Philadelphia, 207,151 barrels of flour, ant
barrels of middlings.
Accounts from Pittfburg, fay that a peace
with the Indians is at prelent very doubt
ful, and it was supposed the treaty now
holding, would not take place.—A verj
few weeks were expected to finifh the bu
fliiefs.
Extt'att of a letter from Georgia, datec
Wajhivgton June 6, 1793-
" Our Hate is now involved ill an Indian
war. The savages ha\e murdered a num
ber of families who have fettled on the
frontiers. Our militia are drafted anil
gone to the frontier, to give all the.pro
tection in their power. It is expetted the
government of the Union will -"ill us—
other wife, from the numerous tribes ol
Creeks andCherokees combined again!! us,
it is appreheuded a great part of the slate
will be laid walte.
" Intelligence reached Washington two
days ago, that almall town, called Mid
way, and the fettiement around, (all ol
which i- situated not far distant from Sa
vannah) were taken and over-run by the
Indians, and lhat the inhabitants of Savan
nah arc much alarmed for their fafery—
I canno: lay how true this information is,
but it is generally believed here.
" I suppose there would not have been
!o g> iier.il a O.rouc i'rt.m the Creeks bad
M'Gillivray been alive ; but unfortunate
ly, he di-.-d on the 4th of February !»tt. I
.Link the Indians have in him loft an able
. ounfellor, and the people of Georgia have
alio cause to regret his death, as he was
always he fiend of peace.
" The militia to the number of about
jOO, are now at a place called Alexander's
Mill, waiting to be joined by the Augusta
horse, and fume companies of volunteers,
which will make them tolerably formida
ble ; and I believe their intention is to
narch immediately for the Indian towns,
md to dellroy thern, and all their property
:hat can be found."
Cop y cf a letter from the 31i>;iflcr oj
Fra: ce, dated Philadelphia Jure 9, 1793,
fecund year of tne French Republic.
Citizen Genet, Mini tier Plenipotentiary of
the French Republic to the United States
of America, to the French Citizens ot
Boston.
Citizens,
I T is with pleasure I have received
j our letter of the 14th of this month. 1
could not have expetfed less from the pa
triotism and zeal of the French Republi
cans, who have the happiness to live under
:he benign influence of our good friendo
the Boftonians. The afirftance which you
live rendered your unfortunate brethren,
dogs you the highest honour—and permit
me t» teftify to yoti my esteem and parti
cular acknowledgment 011 this occasion.
I had ah eaely received two letters on the
"übjeel ofthofe French seamen, who had
ffcaped f rom St. Peters and Miquelon, to
* h'n h 1 loft no time in making reply. 1
ivrote to M. Letombe. heretofore consul
st Boston, that he could procure the ne
irffary funds for the relief and fiibliftence
jf those frencli citizens, who had taken
refuge in that hospitable town—and at the
"auie moment I w rote to citizen Duballet,
:o teftify my fmcere acknwledgements for
iiis affectionate atter • .n to his fellow ccun-
Lrymen. And now 1 request the French
patiiots established at Boston, to wait on
those generous Americans, Mefl'rs. Samuel
Bio'wn, and Rufiell Sturges, and thank
them foe their friendly afiifiance, which
nosv demandi my fincereacknowledgn ejit.
When my affairs will permit me to leave
Philadelphia, for a few days, I fliall em
ploy thole moments of Icifure in paying'a
vilit to our brethren the Americans to the
northward—and particularly to the town
of Bolton, the place from whence the fire
of liberty firft emanated ; and fliall with
pleasure embrace that opportunity, more
closely to tie the knot of friendfhip with
the patriots Sac:uel Brown and Ruflell
" GENET.
Geography of the war in Eur op! at the pre*
, Jent period.
"It may be fatisfaflory, perhaps,to feme
who are desirous to form a just idea of the
tranfattions in the present war between
France and the allies, if we point out the
different filiations of the armies opposed
to each other. Fiht, the prince of Co
bourg, at the head of the Aaffrians, Htni
overian, and Britifn troops in Flanders, is
besieging the towns ol'Conde, Valencien
nes, &c. on the northern frontiers of France
If we then carry our eyes along t;he map to
:he eastward for 250 miles, we fliall find
he cities of Mentz and Cafl'ei, (which stand
ippofite to each other on the banks of the
thine) closely besieged by the Prufiian ge
leral Kalkreuth. Afcend'mgthe Rhine a
)out 50 miles, we come to Spiers, where
general Wurmfur, at the head of 40,00 a
jermans, is preparing to lay liege to Lau
lau, a French town in Alsace, which Mar
hal Vauban employed all his skill in ren
iering owe of the flrongeftfortreflcs in Eu
ope. Proceeding about 20 miles to the
ontluvard, we find Cnftine with the re
nains of his army, which the king of Pruf
ia has driven from the Eleitorate of
Mentz, encamped uneler the walls of Weif
'enburg, in Alsace.' 1
Lxtraft of a letter from Pittfburg, June 25".
'•Let Uim that Itandeth take heed left
le fall." This is a weighiy admonition
landed down to us in holy wrr, and from
,\ liich we may learn that 110 (iteration is so
ecure as to put a man beyond the reach of
ill poflible danger; and that however he
nay be protected by the great, the valiant,
uid by the carnal men of this world, yet
hut oftentimes it availethnothing in the day
>f evil things.—An example happened late
y 011 the -Jfochegany that gives counte
ntnee to these truths. An excise officer,
n the absence of the owner, had in a fecrec
nanner introduced himfelfinto Mr. —'sdif-
illery house, wher<? at that time there was
•.übody but a negro lad. The officer was
ban engaged ill infpefting the calks of
.vhifkey, &c. and taking a precise ac
:ount of the particulars, for fear of falfe
eturtis being given in—E*ing brifidy en
raged in a remote part of the diftill-lioufe,
:e took 110 notice of the negro, who was
inployed in making a quantity of matches,
rom some rolls of.brimftone that had
>een deposited there, who having finifhed,
.vithdrcw, and not recollecting the excise
)lficer, locked the door behind him. Near
in hour afterwards the matter of the pro
perty returned home, and going to the
till-houfe on some business unlocked the
ioor, when he found the whole interior
nvolved in a cloud of brimstone smoke,
uid the exciseman stretched out upon the
laor in an almofl expiring condition. Up
jn being dragged by the heels inltantly in
o the »»pcn iir, he after fometiiiu rccovci
:d from a (tate not far from bodily dillo
ution. Upon enquiry being made the ne
;ro coafefled that he had hi ed a quantity
jf brimiasne matches inorderto smoke out
he RATS with which the diftill-houfe Was
adlv infefled."
The civil commiflioners at St. Domingo
lave iflued a proclamation, ftriftly prohi
biting any of the militaryin that ifiand from
.vearing the cross of St. Louis. The order
"or fupprtfling this decoration was occafi
>ned by its being found upon feversl of the
nilitary,in dif'regard of a decree ®f the con
tention which ordains the suppression of all
he attributes ot royalty.
The conimiffioncrs appointed to fettle
:he accounts between the United States
md individual states, we are informed,
oncluded that business on Saturday last—
what prodigious txaftnefs ! after an ap
lointment of more than five years they hin
:he very point of expiration of the time
imited by Congreft, with as much accura
;y as ever fir llaac New ton found ilje re
urn of a cometanfwtr to his calculations.
[Ge«. Adv. ]
REFLECTIONS on the death of a
Country Printer.
[By his Successor."]
r IKE Sybils'leaves, his fleets he spread
To keep in awe the well bom few :
Stock jobbersfainted while they read—
t".ach hidden fcheiiie expos'd to viev ,
Wlio could such do£lrines spread abroad
So long—and not be clapper claw'd ?
Content with flow, uncertain gains,
With hand and heart prepar'd he flood
To gather d iff an c plains
\nd Dills beyon<l th' Ohio flood—
And, since he had no time to lofc,
Preach'd whiggifh lectures with his news.
Now Death, (that fly designing bead)
It whose command ev'll CAPETS go,
Converts his Pavings all to walle,
Viiil melts his hopes, like April Inow —
No pence he left, to ring the bell,
Or pay the paflageboat of hell.
What fliall be done in such a cafe ?—
Shall I, becaufc one brother fails,
Call in his bull-dogs from the chace
To 101 l tin ir tongues, : nil drop their tails
No faith I—th' ariltocrpt'c crew
No longer fly—than we pursue.—
*** Several pieces transmitted for thij
days pap: r. mill appear in our next,French St. Domingo Affairs.
[Continued from our lad.]
ADDRESS of the Commune of Cay;:,
and the adjacent Parj/hes, to CittzEn
Polverel, National Civil Commijjtoner,
Citizen Commissioner,
THE Commune of Cayes and the
pariihes in its vicinity, feel them
selves jullly alarmed on account of certain
Tepeated adts of fevgrity, such as the ar
rell of their citizens, without affigningthe
motives, which gives us reason to fear ihat
we cherish the word enemies among our
fclves, and from whom we have more to
dread than from the utmoll efforts of the
insurgents without. The molt infamous
flanders are propagated, we are over
whelmed with grief, and at the indant
when mutual confidence should be revived,
attempts are made to divert our attention
"from the public interest by exciting ajspre
henfions for our own personal fafety.
Freely do we fay, Perish the authors of
these dedrudtive and murderous plots—
Perish tliofe traitors who spirit lip and
feed our enemies. Be they who they may,
or were they inverted with the highest of
fices of the magiltracy, they have richly
deserved death. But, assuming as we do
the glorious charadteridic attributes of
French republicans, we take the liberty to
tell you, that you are prohibited by the
law from overlraping it in any instance,
except some particular circumdances may
render it indifpenfibly necessary. We
•will further tell you, that all refinance to
oppression is legal; and if the "National
Convention have fuc!ceeded in breaking
the lad chains of despotism, if they have
succeeded in railing the cap of liberty over
the wrecks and ruins of royal tyranny,
they cannot confidently delegate powers
to you, beyond what are limited by law.
Citizen Commillioner, we will hold up
toyourview the seventh article of the
Declaration of Rights—" No man can be
accused, arretted, or detained, except in
cases prescribed by law, and agreeable to
the forms it has laid down."
The law, which ought to be adminis
tered with equal impartiality to all citi
zens, and did not adapt the word rcfjrmji
lility as a useless term, anathematizes all
those who dare make attempts upon the
sacred and unalienable rights of citizenship.
We reipedt your authority, but we know
our own rights ; and vre beseech you in
the name of the public fafety, which is in
danger, to return to those conciliatory
principles that give authority to your
'million.
The Commune, before a final rupture
"with you, expreffts its wish for a re-union
of all individuals in defence of their homes
and property, which are now a prey to
the Brigands—it willies that the (word of
the law may fall only on the heads of the
guilty. They alone ought to tremble.
The Commune has also taken into earned
-conlideration the sudden embarkation of
citizen Matfolai, and (he critical circum
ilances of those citizens under sentence of
deprivation. The Commune is of opinion
you mud have adted under some mittaken
idea, or that you would not have proceed
ed to certain adts of authority the lengths
■you did, unless againd such only as had
been accused of real crimes, or found
guilty. Inthe firrt cafe you ought to have
manifeded your religious forbearance in
hearing what the accused had to fay ; and
in the second place you should not have
carried your orders into execution, ex
cept upon authentic grounds, and such as
ensured to each individual his life and li
berty. We expedt from you an explana
tion of the motives that induced you to
ast as you have done.
(Signed) ROLLOIN, President.
Esnault and
Cotelle, Secretaries.
A citizen then rose and demanded,
Whether it would not be proper to take
advantage of the re-union of this afTembly,
in order to declare the ft-nfe of the Com
mune tefpedting the nomination of dele
gates to form a Colonial AfTembly, and to
appoint deputies to the National Conven
tion.
DECREED by the Afferrbly, that a
Colonial Congress becomes daily more and
more indispensably necessary, in order to
do away those scandalous abuses which
exid in the civil adminidration of this co
lony—that it is rrquifite that deputies be
sent to the National Convention to implore
its protesting aid.—<
JHere Follows a great number of figna
tures.j
(Signed) ROLLOIN, President.
Esnault, and
Cotelle, Secretaries.
£Next in order comes t|ie Proclamation
of the Civil Commiffiotier Polverel,
a translation of which shall be given in our
ensuing number.]
Translated from a Paris paper, of April 16.
ADDRESS of the Couneil-Gencral of the
Commune of Paris, to the Citizens.
IT is no longer a time, citizens, for
weak minds to hesitate between liber
ty and slavery, the fetters of despotism
and the cap of democracy- Liberty or
death is now the motto of every true
Frenchman, and no other Can be pertinent
to our adtual situation. When ail l?d
it will be no time to treat with tyrants.
We mud either triumph over the ruins of
subverted thrones, or perish together un
der the wrecks of our revolution.—Citi
zens 1 there is no medium, and our fate is
in our own hands. A single retrofpedtive
look would be our ruin. Our career is
gloriously opened,, and evident marks of
fear are prevalent among our enemies.
They have fled at the fight of our armies,
and scarcely a day passes without an in
stance of success—but let us notwithdand
ing be tipon our guard ; one fhameful de
feat may ruin the fruits of a celebrated
vidtory : like certain animata of prey,
whose pradtice is to attack a traveller at
the moment of his fall, our enemies are on
ly waiting for internal divisions, to seize
the helm of government from the hands of
revolutionary authority, and then to rush
upon us at once, and bekr us down with
their rage and numbers. What we do
not fear from their courage, let us appre
hend from their treachery. A constant
bloody druggie of four years ought by
this time to have made us acquainted with
the enemy we have to fight. They pay
no regard to the mod sacred rights ; and
our adts of good faith towards them, and
even our favours, have always been answer
ed by new enormities and the basest re
turns on their part. In vain however
were their oaths to trample us and our
[ new code of laws underfoot—Their wrath
has been confounded and their jiride difap
pointed. But their pride is not annihi
lated, nor their rage calmed. Despotism,
at her lad gasp, roars aload, and myriads
of slaves rush from every corner of the
earth, who with themoddupid tgnorange,
think it their glory to fpHl their blood in
the cause of the royal tigers, who are ne
ver fated. It has been the wish of France
to make them free like herfelf, and their
aim is to enslave her as they are enilaved.
Citizens, dained as they are with your
blood, they think they do you a favour in
offering you chains much more weighty
than it has ever yet been your lot to wear.
Your miseries are a fead to them ; alrea
dy in imagination they partition thecoun
try in which you breathe—and you,
Frenchmen ; you, generous republicans ;
you, whom these monders are driving to
plunge once more into the abyss of slave
ry ; you yourselves are reckoned a part of
the booty they cxpedt to find in France.
It cannot be, that patriotism, liberty,
and virtue are mere empty names 1—
Frenchmen, can you bear the thought that
herds of ferocious soldiers lhall take posses
sion of your habitations, and snatch fiom
vourpiouths that bread, wh ch our intes
tine divisions have in some degree embit
tered to you, but which it will soon be in
your own power to render sweeter than
ever in the bosom of unity and peace.—
Would you abandon to the difcretioriary
vengeance of a vindidtive conqueror, your
parents, your wives, and your little ones ?
Can you content not to transmit to pos
terity (that impartial judge) that liberty
which you have asserted for them as well
as yourselves ; or, jud emerged as you are
from the chaotic darkness of the prece
ding ages, would you almod as soon en
tomb yourselves in the contempt and ab
horrence of future times?—No, no—as
we have but one part to take, there is but
one word for us all—To arms !—Only lis
ten to the howlings of the enemy, who
now aided by treason and traitors, have by
such means, and not by bravery, advanced
to the verge of our northern frontiers —
how aptly may they be compared to
bears and panthers 1 Let us cfedroy them
since it is impossible toglut their appetites!
Let France rife at once like one man,
from north to south, from ead to welt,
and like a volcano whose flame has been
long (mothered, let her vomit forth against
all hostile nations, her ships, her soldiers,
her philosophers, her law 3, terror, death,
knowledge, happiness, and peace !
And you, our much refpetted female
citizens, sex amiable and sensible, remem
ber that the love of country is alio the
voice of nature. Far be it from us to
blame you in the lead degree for your con
jugal tenderness, or your r.ffedtion for
your children—but take care that your
love does not degenerate into weakness,
and, by a fatal consequence, prove the de
(tru&ion of those whom you hold so dear.
We are surrounded by enemies who threa
ten our deftrudtion ; remember too that
they aie enemies cruel and pitiless : should
yon keep your offspring with you, in vain
will you expose your own bosoms to defend
them from the fword3 of barbarians. If
Nature has found them rebels to herfelf,
surely they will not relent at your tears.
You will perish under their murdering
weapon f, and upon yourftill panting bo
soms may fall your expiring offspring, at
once the vi&ims of your own blind affecti
on, and the vengeance of foreign conque
rors.
You tremble at such a picture. Ye
husbands and mothers that encircle us,
tell lis what is to prevent its being realized
unless by afling the firm part of republi
cans, and adopting every manly virtue,
you set them at defiance ? Train up your
offspring in the path to victory, array
them in the military habit, arm them
with your own hands, oblige them to
fweai that they will never return till the
combination of tyrants is conquered—
and should the news arrive to your ears
that they have per 'iJJicdfor their country ; let
your answer be,lt was for this that ive gave
them birth ! And let the generou9 exam
ple of the mothers inspire in the daugh
ters a resolution not less heroic —let them
universally enter into an engagement not !
to receive into their arms a lover who (hall j
not in our glorious cause have manifefted
a contempt of death, and opposed tyrants
in the field of battle.
Young citizen soldiers, what further can
be said to excite you to arms in your
country's cause? In rulhing to batt'e you
obey the voice of your country, and the
"voice of honor.—This is your whole and
only duty
When the city of Paris sent forth her
firft heroes, (he astonished all Europe,
and rivalled all the departments ofFrance.
It was to the determined bravery of tliefe
elder sons of liberty, that this great capi
tal has now the honour of dealing the firfl
mortal wound into the bosom of tyranny,
and of being the cradle of the revolution.
The task of supporting the honour of Pa
ris is transferred from them to you. De
fenders of the fame caule, it behoves you
to learn how to fight and—Die like them
As to ourselves (the council general)
our official duties confine us to thi& spot.
Ours is it, to ihaintain within that tran
quility which it is yours to support with
out Our hearts and our belt wishes at
tend your exertioijs. We (hall sympathize
in all your diftrtffes and rejoice heartily at
your luccefs. Till vidtory (hall bring you
back triumphant to the bosom of your
country, you may reft assured that no caie
will be wanting in the magiltrates to pro
vide for the wjnts of your fathers, your
wives, and your children ; a duty that
will be ever sacred in our view of things,
and the nearest to our hearts.
e- , PACHE, Mayor of PaYis
Signed, CO LOiMBErtU,.Wrar)>.
Shrewsbury and Philadelphia
STAGE.
THE Shrewsbury and Philadelphia stage,
will commence to run regularly, ill Thurs
day the fourth of July, to leave Philadelphia on
thatday, after which time, during the month
of July, it will start from M'Kean andVanEm
burl's wharf at Philadelphia (the next wharf be
low Arch street) on every Sunday and Wednes
day & proceed to Bcrdtnton—the land stage to
proceed on the next morning to Edingtov, and
to return on every Tuesday and Friday. In the
month of August, itwill leave Philadelphia on
every Sunday and Thursday, and return on ev-ry
Tuesday and Saturday.
Fare for Pafiengers from Philadelphia
to Edington - - two dollars &an half,
For goods ditto - ditto pr. cwt. one doliar
VAN EMBURGfc? M'KEAN.
SAMUEL FORMAN.
Bordenton June 29, 1793-
For freight ur pafiage, apply to the matters on
board, or tc
M'KEAN & VANEMBURGH
Who b2\e fpr sale vjual at their stores on said
wharf, pork, hams, flout. lard, butter, rye and
indian meal,, cheeie, bar iron &c. &c.
July 3, 1 aw. x m.
METEORO LOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.
June 1793.
D. H Barom. jTher. W\ni. Weather
TuefJay, 25. 6; 30. c 67 S. C7o«</y
3I 3O' * 74 S. S. E. /? a;».
Wedntjday, zO. 0, 30. c bb VV. "loudy^"
30. ] 6q N. Rain.
TturjUay, 27. 6 ( 30. ij bb calm Clt/uuy.
3i 30. 15 So VS. W Fair. ■
briiay, 6 30. 15 71 .V. Cloudy.
I 30. 1 85 S. W Fair.
Saturday, 29. 61 30.1. 7- S. Vv. -l.uay.
3! 30. 11 S3 W. do.
Sunday, 30. oi -o. 12 74 W. /•air.
3', 3°- "t. 00 rfn. , do.
Monday, 1. 61 29. i 77 W. Fair.
3' 29. 75 81 do. Sbovicrt
FOR SALE,
Thirteen Hundred and Sixty Acres
of excellent
Farming or Tobacco Lands,
LYING in the county of Amherft, in the
state of Virginia, on one of the principal
b.anches of James River, within fix miles of th«
latter, from where it is navigable for boats of tea
twelve tons burthep.— Befjdcs the advantages
of these lairds, for the farmer or cultivator of to
bacco, they are fuppcfed, from a small though
fuccefsful experiment, made by the late celonel
Chilwell, to contain an abundance of metals,
which, if not of a Drecious (as has been ever*
supposed) ate certainly of a very valuable kind.
Tne better, however, to ascertain this fa&, and
place the purchaser on a fafe footing, in so haz
ardous a business, as all those subterraneous te—
iearches, without the utmost certainty of an
abundance of the desired ore, is supposed to be m
every reafonaole and nereflary afliftance or indul~
gence will be rendered ihofe inclined to make the
experiment, as well as«very other necefTary in
formation given by the Editor of this gazette, ia
Philadelphia, or
JOHN NICHOLAS,
Charlottefville, Virginia;
Jure 8, 179}. iawow
For PORT AUPRINCE,
The fact failing .Ship
BETSEY,
AEED READING, Master •
"DURTHEN two hundred and fifteen tons: Sh®
has beenjuft hove down and is in complete
Has excellent accommodations for paf
lVngers,and will fail by the 15th of July next.For
h eight or paflage ' apply to the Captain on board,
->r to Mr. Jehn Dunkin, merchant, No. 105,
South Water-street'
June 29. 3t
Pour le Port au Prince,
Le Navire LA BETSEY,
Capttaine Reed Reading,
DXJ PORT de deux cens et quinze tonneaux r
tres bon voilier ; a ete fraiefcement ra
douoee, et en le meilleur etat pour U mer. Le
Betftv eft bien accommodee a prendre le« pafla
ers, ot partira fur le quinzieme jour da mois di
Ju i I let courant. Ceux qui voudront y pafler on
charger a fret s'addrelferont ale Capitaine fur le
bord, ou a M. JEAN DUNKIN, negociant.
No. 105, Rue de Teau (Water-Street) de Sud.
a Philadelphre, le premier de Juillet, 1793
I Have claims to about two hundred an<£
fifty thouland acres of LAND in the state of
K, cn tuckey, in different parts of that country,
some of which 1 know to be equal to any 5 alt
of which I am inclined to dispose of, either by
entire sale, or by admitting ene, or two partners,
t<> whom the agency on the whole will be com
mitted.
One fourth of the contrast will be required in
hand, either in cash, merchandise, or such afletw
as may be converted to a-dlive use, the residue
may be apportioned in convenient inflalments.
The purchasers to give security, on the J«nd y
or otherways,as suits them.
Knowing that there is a prejudice against the
titles of land in that state, which is, more general
than just, i am willing to stipulate in the con*<
tract, that a discount, or dedu&ion, /hall be
made, where any land may be loft, by reason of a
defe&ive title.
Any person inclining ro such a p-Jtcnafe, is re-,
quested to write to me by post, in answer to
whom, more particular information will be given*
HENRY BANKS.
Richmond March 20, i"9> 2aw td»
—MJ
TO THE PUBLIC.
tttHERE AS ah attachment at the suit of Sam
uel Imiay and Nathaniel 1-mlay, executors
' of the testament and last will of Peter irnlay, de
ceased, has ifiued out of the Supreme Gour c(
Judicature of the rtate of Nec*. Jersey, against the
iands of Garret Voorheis, late of the county of
Middlesex, and state aforefaid, returnable to the
firft Tuesday in September, seventeen hundred
and ninety-two Notice is hereby given to the
said. Gariet Voorheis, that unleis he appear audi
file special bail to the said a&ion, judgment
will be entered against him, by default, and the
lands so attached fold for the fatisfadion of such
of his creditors as shall appear to he jultly entitle#,
to any demand thereon, and (hall apply for that
purpefe, according to the form of the statute ia
such cafe made and provided.
By order of the Court,
17. law. ly HOWELL, Clk.
PRINTED BY
C HILD S and S W AINE.
AT THEIK •» FEI C E TiOtZOQ, HIGH-STRKXX,
WEAR riTTH-STRyir,
ADILf it lAi