By P. FRENEAU-. ( at No. 209, Market Street) Publijhtd Saturdays, [Three Dollars per annum.J
Numb. 90 of Vol-. ll.] SATURDAY, September 7, 1793.
CONSTITUTION of the REPUBLIC
of FRANCE.
A RT. i. The republic is one and indivi
libit*.
j. The French people are divided, foi
the exercise of their sovereignty, into pri
mary affeir.blies of cantons.
3. They are divided, for the admini
stration of justice, into departments, dif
tritls, municipalities.
4. Every person born and fettled ii
France, 21 years of age; every flrangei
of 21 years of age, who, fettled in France
for one year, lives by his labour ; or ac
quires a property ; or marries a K reiki
woman j or adopts a child ; or Supports ai
infirm person ; every ftraTigefj in tine, whi
iliall be judged, by the legislative body, tr
have deferyed well in the cause of huma
nity, is admitted to the exercise of thi
rights of a Freaeh citizen.
5. The exercise of the rights of a French
citizen is'forfeited by naturalization in fo
reign countries ; by the acceptance of em
ployments or favours from a government
not republican ; by condemnation to igno
minious or corporal pll ni ill me 111, until re
habilitation.
6. The exercise of the rights of citizen;
13 suspended, while under accusation ; by a
sentence of non-appearance, fd long as the
sentence is not retrained.
7. The sovereign people, is the vHole
niafs of the French citizens.
8. They appoint immediately their de
puties. , „ , .
9 They delegate to e!e£tdrs the choice
of adminiltrarors, of public arbiters, ol
criminal judges, and thole of final appeal.
10. They deliberate upon the laws.
11. Primary alfemblies conlift tif citi
rending for fix months m a canton.
ii. They are compoled of 200 citizens
at lead, and of 600 at molt, entitled to
Vote. a: , , L
They are conuituted by the nomi
nation of a president, fccretaries, atltl in
fpeftors of ballots-i
14. They regulate their internal police.
15. No one can appear at tliem, armed.
16. The eleftidns are either by ballot 01
Viva voce, at the option of each voter.
17. A Primary AflVmbly can in no cafe
prescribe an uniform mode of voting.
18. The infpefctors of ballot record the
votes of citizens who, unable to write,
with however to vote by ballot.
19. The question on the laws are de
cided by Yes and No. _
20 The vote ot Prim3fy Aflembly 1:
prociaimed thus-—The citizens apmblec
in Primary Aftmbly of in number
voters, vote [for or agamlt] by c
majority of
21. Population is the only balls ot tlu
Natibnal Reprefenrntion.
22. There (hall be a deputy for every
forty thousand individuals.
23. Each collection of Primary Alfem
blies, completing a population of 39,000 tc
41,000 pcrfous, nama immediately a de
puty. . . ,
24. The nomination requires an abfo
lllte majority of fuffrages.
25. Ench Aflembly counts its own votes,
and fends a commitfioner to the genera
collection ofrefults, to the place fixed ai
mofl central.
->6. If the firft trial does not give an)
one an absolute majority, a feconel eleflior
takes place, the votes being confined to tilt
two citizens highest in votesi .
27. In cafe of equal votes, the eldelt r
preferred, eit'ier to be voted for or elect
ed. In cafe of equal age, chance decides.
28. Every Frenchman, exercising the
rights of citizen, in any part of the repub
lic, is eligible.
29. Each deputy belongs to the whole
nation. . r
30. In cafe of refnfal to accept, relign
at ion. forfeiture or death of a deputy, tht
Primary Alfemblies who had nominated
him replace him.
31. A deputy who has rcfigned cannoi
quit his poll before his successor is ready t<
enter upon the duties of his appointment.
32 The French people affsmble ever)
year, on the firft Tuesday, to proceed te
their elections. ,
3-. They proceed to the election what
ever be the number of citizens, having ;
right to vote at it, aflembled.
34. A Primary Aflembly may be extra
ordinarily convoked,upon the requisition of
a fifth ot the citizens having a right to vote
at it. , . . . .
"5. The convocation in this cafe, is
made by the municipality of the common
place of meeting.
;6. These extraordinary aflemblies de
liberate only in cafe a ihajority of the ci
tizens having a right to vote in thefri, be
present.
37. The citizens in Primary Airemblies;
name an elector, one for every 200 citi
zens, counting present and absent; two
roni 201 to 400 ; three from 401 to 600.
38. The holding of Ele£toral Aflemblies
ind the mode of electing is the fime ai in
he Primary Aflemblies.
39. The Legislative body is one, Indivi
ible and permanent.
40. The Setlion is of one year.
41. The Legillators meet 011 the flrft of
July
-42. A majority is a quorum.
43. The deputies tan be queiiioned, ac
eufed, or judged at no time, for opinions
expressed from their feats in the Legisla
ture.
44. They may for criminal a£ti®ns be
caken in the fact, but the warrant to arrefl
& to cause to appear can only be iffiied a
jainftihem by the Legislature.
45. The fittings of the National Affem
jly (hall be public.
46. Its Journals (hall be printed.
47. It (hall riot deliberate, unless it be
:ompoTed of at lead 200 mejnbers.
4g. it (hall not refufe any member the
-ight of (peaking, in the order in which he
;us demanded it.
49. It fliall decide by the voice of the
najority of thole present.
jo. Fifty fliall have the right «f calling
"or the yeds and nays.
51. The afl'embly fliall have the right of
:enfuring the conduit of its members tlllr
ilg its meetings.
52. The aflembly fliall poflefs the im
mediate jurlfdiftion of the place in which
,1 holds itsfeffions, and of fucli an extent
n the neighbourhood as it ftiall itfelf de
termine. ;
53. The LegHlative b<Sdy shall enatt
aws and pass decreet- :
54. Under the general name of laws are
:omprifed fiich afls of the legislative body,
»s concern—Civil or criminal legillation ;
:he general administration of the revenues
md of the ordinary expenditures of the
•epublic ; the national domains ; the ftan
:lard, tlie weight, the impreflion and deno
mination of money ; the nature, the a
nonnt, and the collection of the taxes; the
Jecliration of war ; any new distribution
)f the French territory ; pubfic inftrufli
-31 the public honours paid to great
men.
jj. Under the particular title of Decrees,
ire comprehended such acts as relate to —
The annual eftablifliment of the forces
3t the republic, by sea and.land ; the per
miflion or refufal of the pafTage of foreign
Croops through the French territory ; the
introduction of foreign naval forces into
Che French ports ; meafurfes for the gene
ral fafety and tranquility ; the annual and
temporary distribution ot the public la
bour and public contributions : orders for
the emiflion of money ot all kinds ; extra
ordinary and contingent expenditures ;
meafnres which are local or confined to
one particular department, community, or
particular kind of public work ; the de
fence of the country ; the ratification of
treaties ; the nomination and deposition
of the commanders in chief of the armies ;
Che trial of the members of council and
public fun£tionarics ; the acctffation of
tliofe (\ifpe£ted of plots against the general
fafety of the republic j every partial
change in the distribution ot the French
cerritory ; national rewards,
56. All bills proposed t6 be enacted into
a law lhall be preceded by a report.
57. The difcuflion of the law (ha)l not be
opened, and it (hall not be provisionally
;na£ted. until fifteen days after th^repoi't.
58. The bill is to be printed and sent to
all the communes, under the title of,
Proposed Law.
59. Forty days after the proposed law is
rent, if in the majority of the departments,
the tenth part of the primary aflemblies ot
each, has not objected, the plan is deemed
acccptcd, and becomes a law.
60. If objeaions are made, the legisla
tive body convene the primary aflemblies.
6r All laws, decrees, judgments, and
other public a£ts, fliall be entitled. In the
name as the French People year of
the French Republic. ,
62. There (hall be an executive council,
composed of twenty-five numbers.
63. The electoral afl'embly ot each de
partment names one candidate ; the legtl
lative body chooses from the lilt the nieni
b;rs ot tWe Council-
64. One half of the coxincil is renewed
by every legidature during the la(t months
of it»-Teffion.
65. The count!! is charged with the c!i
re&ion and fuperintendance of the general
admirilftration of the republic. It can ast
but in execution of the laws and decrees of
Jegidative body.
66. It (hall name, from its own body,
the principal agents of the fetfferal depart
ments of the republic.
67. The legidative body {hall prescribe
the number and functions of th»fe agents.
68. These agents do not form a council.
They (hall befeparste, without any imme
diate connexion between them. They
Biall not exercise any personal authority.
69. The council (hall ajipoint from the
inafi of citizens exterior agents of the re
public.
70. It (hill negt>ei:.te treaties. •
71. Tils members of the council, if guil
ty of treason, (lull be accused by the legis
lature.
72. The council (hall be responsible for
any failure in the execution of the laws
and decrees, and for all those abuses which
it (hall not denounce.
73. It (hall depose and replace the pub
tic agents whenever it (hall think proper.
74. It is bound to accuse them before
the judicial tribunals, whenever there (hall
be occalion. ]
75. The executive council (hall reside
near the legidature. It (ball have a l'eparate
:hambcr and a separate entrance into the
place of its meetings.
76. It (hall b'e Ueard asoften as it (hall
liave any report to be made.
77. The legislative body may call for th»
presence of the executive council at its lit
tings.either in the whole, or in parts, when
ever it (hall judge proper.
78. There (hall be in every commune of
the republic a municij.al adfiiinlftration.
In every didri£t an intermediate admi
niftratipn.
In every department a central adminis
tration.
79.The municipal officers (hallbe elected
jy the ademblies of the commune.
80. The administrators (hall be appoint
ed by the electoral aflVmblies of the de
partment and of the diftriit.
81. The municipalities and the admini
drations (Ball be renewed by ortehalf every
year. ■
82. The adminiflrators and municipal
officers have 110 reprefentitive charatter ;
they cannot in any cafe, modify the acts of
the legidature, nor suspend the execution
of them. ........
83. The legidature diall prefcribc the
Functions of the municipal officers and ad
ministrators, the rules of their fubordina
:ion, and the penalties \vhich they may in
cur.
84. The ademblies of the municipalities,
and the administrations (hall be public.
Bj. The code of civil and criminal law
(hall be uniform throughout the republic.
86. The right which the citizens have
Df terminating their dilputes by arbitrators,
(hall not be infringed.
87. The decision of these arbitrators (hall
be definitive, unlcfs the parties have re
served their right of appeal.
88. There (hall be jultices of the peace
elected by the people in cantons, the limits
of which (hall be fixed by law.
89. They diall accommodate differences
and admiaifter juttice without cost.
90. Their number and their qualifica
tions (hall be regulated by the legidature.
91. There diall be public arbitrators ap
pointed by the electoral ademblies.
92. Their number and extent df jurif
diaiofl (hall be firted by the ele£toral ad'eni
blies.
93. Thsy (hall take cognizance of dis
putes which have not been trjally deter
mined by private arbitrators, or by jultices
of the peace.
94. They (hall decide in public : they
(hall give their opinions openly ; they diall
give opinions openly ; they (hall determine
in the dernier resort either upon verbal
evidence, or upon a limple memorial,
without pleading and without colls—The)
(hall give the reasons of their decilions.
95. The judices of the peace and the
public arbitrators diall be ele&ed ever)
year. . .
96. In a criminal procefs—llo citizen can
be tried except upon an accusation, by ii
jury, or decreed by the legidature. Ihe ac
cused (hall have cuunfel particularly nomi
nated for them, or there diall be public of
ficers appointed to defend them. The ac
fliall bcpblk. Jjutli the f%a aad
[Total NuMßi J 94']
the intenfionlhall be determined by a j'.irv.
The penalty ftiall bfc applied by a criminal
tribunal.
97. There criminal judges shall be elected
every year by the electoral aifemblies.
98. 7he is for the Republic but one tri
bunal of final appeal.
,99;. This tribunal cloej not take cogni
zance of tlie (nerits of a cause. It pro
nounces only tfpon violations in the forms,
and ori the evident deviations from the law.
100.. The jnembers of th'll tribunal are
appointed every year by the Electoral as
semblies. _
101. No citizen is ilifpenftd from the
honourable obligation of contributing to
support the burden of the public expendi
ture.
102. The National treasury is the cen
tra! point of the receipts atid expenditures
of the republic.
103. It it fuperintendecl ty refponfibie
agents appointed by the executive council.
/04. ihe condtift of these is infpefted by
couimiffioners appointed by the legiflatiire.
taken from ani9ng the mass of citizens, and
refponfibie for such abuses as they do not
denounce.
105. The accounts of thl agents of the
national treasure and of the admihiftratorc
»f public money are annually rendered to
refponfibie cbmmifflonersnamed by the ex
ecutive cfcupcjl,.
. jo 6. The proceedings of these agents
are infpefted by commissioners appointed
by the legislature from among, the inafs of
citizens and refponfibie for such abuses and
errors a? they do not denounce. The le
jiGative body finally fettles accounts.
IQ7. The general force of the republic
ronfifts of the whole people.
icß. The republic has under pay in the
time of peact an »rmed farce by sea and
land.
109. All Frenchmen are all soldiers 5
they are all exercised in the management
of arms. ■.
110. There is no commander ijl thief.
in. The difference between grades,.
their distinguishing marks, and fiibordina
tion only fublifts in relaiibri to and during
actual service. .
112. The public force employed to.
maintaift order and internal peace, only
ast upon the reqnifition, in writing, of the
cdnftituted authorities.
, 113. The public force when employed
ngainft external enemies, acts under th®
direction of the executive councils,
j 14. No armed, body can deliberate. ~
i rj. If in a majority of the departments
bne tenth of the primary affetoblies regu
larly formed of each, call for a revision or
the conflitutional ast, or an alteration of
any its articles, the legislative body con
voke the pi imaryafTemblies of the repub
lic, to determine whether there /hall be a.
national convention.
116. "i"he national convention is fermect
in the fairje manner as the and
can exercise legislative powers.
127. As far as relatesto the conftitutiort,
the convention confine their deliberation*
to the articles, the defeftsof which eaufed
their convocation.
118. The French people are the friends
and natntal allies of all free nations.
119. Theydonot meddle with, the go
vernment of other s They do noc
fuffer other notions to meddle with theirs
-120. They hold out an afyluip to foreign
ers driven from their country for their love
of liberty. 1 hey refufe an asylum t» ty
rants. ... j ,
fit. They will not makepeace with nri
enemy that occupies part of the tetritory
of the Republic.
122. The conftitntion guarantees td
every Frenchman equality, liberty, securi
ty and property, tbe public debt, the free
exercise of religious worfljip, an educa
tioh, public fuccqurs, the indefinite liberty
of the press, the right ps petitioning, the;
right of aflembling in popular societies, the
enjoyment of Si I the rights of man.
The French republic honour patri
ntifm. Courage, old age, filial piety, theun
fortiinate. They repi-fe the sacred cle
pofit of the l conltitutiOn under the fate
guard of all t he virtues.
i«4. The declaration of rights and the
conftifhuional ast is engraved on in
the centre of the lcgiftative hall, and in
public squares.
(Signed)
COLLOT D'HERBOIS, Prejidcnt <
Durand-Maillane, Ducoj, f
Meaulle, Ch. de la Croix, (Secretarfeif
Gefluiti, F. A. J-aloj. jFor the National Gazette.
I HAVE fometirrte part with fitrprize, and
regret, beheld tftepublU prints teeming
w ith illiberal «*nfiire and Itrichirei on the
conduct of our firft magiltrat«. The man
whom we have been taught to reverence
»s the saviour of our country, whom none
.but the tongue of blasphemy hath hereto
iore dared 10 attack, is,now proclaimed bj
a vile Jacobin faOion, an enemy to tin
iand which gave him birth and recompensed
his merits with her honours. To develope
the cause of such a change, inveftigatioi
exerts herfe'.f in vain; a long life devotee
to the interelts of this country, alone i ifes ir
evidence agaißll him, and we are fioa'lj
compelled to end our refearche« by alcrib
ing the prtfent partial turn .of public opi
nion to tne natural depravity and incoii
fiftencyof the humancharafter. But as! an
willing to believe the former principle i:
less pi evalent than the latter, that error noi
guilt is the fifnrce ol'the discontent gene
rally difleminated, I will endeavour by r
clear and concifa exposition of fails to dis
pel the milts so inrUtftrioufly excited, anc
to prove by irrefutable arguments that tlie
present adniiniftration is conduced by wort
than Machiavels in fmeffe, and that the
mod refined fyltem of policy, far above the
vulgar conception of mankind has been tht
father of all its aits ; nor would I have ths
President to fuppole a blind devotion tc
his judgment has induced me to hazard 2
Jala aiitrtion. Indeed, I am a true re
puolican, as any one will believe betsre h«
has read through this address ;
to th? undertaking by no delire to Hatter,
or by any idea too partially entertained ir
favour of the "firft magillrate, but pure!)
from a motive to do justice to his real cha
racter, to dil'play things in their true co
lours, to c'ivelt men of their borrowed at
tributes, and to Ihew guilt in all its natura
deformity.
The firft division in the sentiments of the
people refpeiting the President was at th<
promulgation of the Conftitiition. Tin
individuals of the different hates whicl
compol'e the Union, determined "its in
trinlic n erit or demerit from the relative
advantages they might severally derive si on
it, not viewing it as a plan extenlive and
complicated in its nature, and whose ope
rations were intended to reconcile interefb
in many refpecls different, as far as such ;
tiling could be done.—Hence divifi
ons in opinion, and the odium ot measure:
was crroneonlly transferred to persons.
Henzt Federal and Anti-federal: terms va
riously received according to the differenl
tempers of people. The independent and
iluuriihing citiz.ens of the Union were fait
to b? fignified by the one, the abandonee
in principle and fortune by the other. In
deed fonu- have thought them fynoniinon;
with the words good and bad, and that the
Almighty ought to erase them from his
■book of accounts as trite and common,
and substitute in their place the new invent
ed terms as more expreflive of virtue ar.d
vice. Inthisfenfe, after the acceptation
of the Constitution, when the Prefidenl
was called to tbe firft office of our govern
ment by the voice of United America ; in
this sense, he appears to have received
tliem ; and tho' the citizens who had fworr
to übferve the Conhitution came adorned
with every quality necefl'ary to ensure trull,
or merit confidence, he wifely resolved tc
•c#nfider ttism as the specious garb of a
tainted heart, to recolleit in the day of
tryal he had been enrolled in the devoted
hand, and rejedt him from his councils :
Indeed, I would not infinnate tbat he who
repented of his political heresy remained
unpardoned, the mature and timely apoll
ate has, as everyone knows, been reward
ed and raised to honour.—No—none twl
those hardened and determined zealots who
opposed their puny voices t() the majority,
even while the dreadful fiat hovered over
their heads, have been denied a partici
pation in the loaves and fillies. So far the
President has not given a shadow for dis
content, altho' the fame insidious affafiins
fay he h3s made himfelf the head of a party,
instead of a nation : Their accusations are
equally unjust as their objections to some
other pans of his conduct, of which a fiare
reutal will be fufficient to prove his three
successive appointments to the wcfternariny
have not been able to escape auimadverlion.
They are so unjust aifo as to endeavour to
make him answerable for misfortune! ; and
while they censure him for every untoward
accident ; give him no credit for what has
been even more lucky than they could have
expected.
The firfl expedition, which wasconfi
tlered as purely military (though in that
light not quite such as we could have wilh
cd it) has added dignity to American lite
rature, and enriched tlje geography of this
country with a description of the Miami &
Maumee settlements, at lead worth fix or
seven dozen of men, and the paltry sum
it costs, whatever the cynical may fay to
the contrary. Moreover, had the succeed
ing commander paid that attention which
so judicious and elegant a performance de
manded, I make no doubt but he would
have been better acquainted with his fitua-
Jion, and been able to have made a proba
t>le guess where hi was. But surely our
firft magistrate canftot lie Mamed bcc;uife
the tawney sons of the desert plilcK'd the
laurels, the fruit of many a hard fought
field, from his aged brow. What will be
the fortune of the prefect and lall appoint
ed commander, time alone can determine.
He has the advantage of being well ac
quainted with his enemy, and when he calls
to mind the days of his youth, will rather
will) for than avoid a surprize, though his
Mentor, by refuting the providential ap
pointment of a brigadier, no longer at
tends his motions. All the foregoing mea
sures, which have been alledged as caules
of complaint, I rather conceive, originate
fromtlte malevolence of party, than from
any misapprehension of the wisdom which
dictated them. Tlrofe other circumfVances
which have created uneafmefs, evenin lome
of the President's molt zealous friends, are
the offspring of error, and will have hut a
temporary and tranlient exigence. Thc-
Ainericans, not yet fated with the crp ol
liberty, have farmed most erroneous opini
ons of what is meant by republican govern
ment, patriotijin., and many other infigni
ficant terms. While every thing else has
undergone some revolution tnrotig.li the re
finement and liberality which every where
prevail, they expected to have seen exemp
lified in this country what they have read
of ancient Greece and R»me. The soldier.
who had extended bis arm to lave hiscoun
try, after the fuccef ful struggle, converting
his sword into the plough-flnre, not affe£c
ing the parade of* an eatlern Nabob, more
over an enthusiastic attachment to the peo
ple of France, who sent forth their fleets
and armies to (hield us from the BRITISH
TYRANT, with wliofe freedom they idly
ftippofe our own connected, has increased
the canfe of disgust. in a word, a late pro
clamation, which it is plain they do not
understand, has diflolved the chain which
bound the federal head to their fouls.
They do not reflect how dangerous it
would be to afford the fmallelt cause of
complaint to the Britilh court, particularly
at this momentous period, when the arm
raised to truth French freedom might ea
lily extend itfelf to the feed from whence
the tree of liberty arose. Besides, if we
mr.ft take a part, how much more glorious
it will be to follow emperors, kings, and
princes, than join thole detested regicides,
who have compelled those honourable per
sonages ro the disagreeable necelfity of
making a government for them. They
have, too, the oddest notions of the invio
lability of treaties, not reflecting that
Hutch policy is fafeit, and that faith and
profit ought to go hand in hand. Indeed
tticy feein to think that national and indi
vidual honour ought to be equally sacred,
a.id that the Prelident, by an aflumption of
power, has unnecefl'arily separated them,
and by a refinement in polic; has rendered
their goveninent detestable, while th<>y
tltemfelves are refpeftable. They malici
ously fay, he imprisoned and tried two men
for what he encouraged in another ; that
tlie Marquis Fayetle came to this country
and fought in our cause. contrary to the
commands of his king ; that the American
General received him as a friend, and en
tertained a paternal affeflion for him.
Thus by the {(ranged implication do they
convert into a fault what ought to redound
to his eternal praise. The conduct of the
one might have injured, that of the other
benefited, this country. It was the ofFence
of the Canci/le that they attacked the pro
priety of the proclamation ; it was the
crime of the Marquis tliat he disobeyed
the authority of an absolute monarch. Alas 1
poor Louts, your fate has been severe !
Thus have I made good my alfertion. I
have fliewn that many charges againtl
our firft magiftrste have arisen from the
malevolent and factious, because the ad
vantages accruing from those acts of ad
miniliration, which they pretend not to
understand, are too palpable to be miltaken
—that still more originated in ignorance
and niifconception For, what common
uilderftanding could have fathomed the
depth of executive wisdom ?—I pretend
not to a greater degree of penetration than
others; but, I have conlidered objects,
untainted by paflion or prejudice. I could
not conceive how a man who had acquitted
himfelf so well in a war, not carried 011
with the boisterous violence of a Charles
the 12th, but with the discretion and wis
dom of a Fabius, could be so deficient in
peace, as the measures imputed to him by a
malignant faction, would infer. I have
therefore thought deeply on the fnbjeit,
and can truly fay, the pleafitre I feel at
having been able to do justice to a real
meritorious character, fufficiently rewai ds
me for the trouble I have been at. And
though, there may be many who will think
this performance too much tinctured with
flattery, the consolation will be, the con
fctotifnefs of personal worth, and the re
flection, that no man obtains his true
character tili many years after death.—En
vy, emulation, the natural hatred of supe
riority, so congenial to the human heart,
will arrett the pen of truth, until that pe
riod :—when if departed spirits are per
mitted to be acquainted with the things ol
this world, we thall be convinced I have
not said half the truth, or bestowed hall
their deferu on genuine merit.
DECI'US,
Sept. 2.
Abjlracl of Foreign Intelligence-.
O'l the 19th of June, the number of per
sons arretted by tile department 'of Par's,
amounted to 1345. The late minitter Ro
land, fled to Lyons, audit is said Brifot
was.going to join him when he was arrett
ed. Seven hundred and eighty five milli
ons of Affignats had been burnt 011 the 2?d.
of June; thirty three millions more were
ready to destroyed. Collot de Herbois
was pcelidentof the national convention on
the 2Cth of Jnne. —The SpaniUi army Was
pressing hard upon some ttrong French
potts on the frontier of the Pyreiines. Bel
legarde, a ttrongly fortified French town,
(till held out norwithftanding a continual
bombardment, and apprehended nothing
but from want of provisions : the garrison
of Fort Des Bains l'urrendered on the 57th
day of the siege, having eaten nothing the
la ft 48 hours. Fonrques was also taken,
three leagues from Perpignan.
M. Egalite in a letter to the National
Convention of the 2d. of June, fays tfeat
the moment he had flattered himfeif with
a favorable decision qn his cafe, at that
moment he found himfeif" more ciofely
confined.—He was transferred 10 the fort
St. Jean the 27th of M^y—a very cold pri
son, without receiving communications
from any one—and without any attendants
for himfeif or his foil ; hisdomettics had
been driven away although they had par
ports from the committee of the public
fafety, and he was not permitted either to
fee or speak to them ; he prays that the
Convention would judge him according to
his merits and attachment to the cause of
the republic through the revolution. He
prays for a speedy decifron-— and if their
decree (hould not give hint entire liberty,
he alks perirfiffiou to converse with such
persons as he (hall defu e, not to be. flint up
in that prison, that he may be at l'berry to
walk, and to take the air, which he fays i.
absolutely necefliiry to his health, now
greatly injured by his distress of body and
ifiind.
This letter was referred to the commit
tee of fafety.
The combined fleet, confiding of 52 fail,
had entered the Mediterranean, it was
said with a view to attack Toulon.
Lord Howe, with the lull division of'the
channel fleet, had failed from Spithead ;
and was to be joined by the Ruffian fleet of
frigates and transports, having 011 board
12,c00 troops. A cleftent on the coatt of
Britanny is confidently fta'ted to be their
object in the British papers. It appears
that there has been perpetually fighting be
tween the French and Sardinians ; the ac
counts are from Turln, these Rate that the
former loft 4COO men in one aflion. The
Pruflians have made themselves mutters of
Weifienau, near Mentz, after a (harp con
test. A bomb thrown from Valenciennes
fell ar ong anumher of those of the besieg
ers, and caused an explosion of forty of
thera.
The town of Conde furrfnderec! to the
cwmbined forces 011 the 10th of July, the
garrison had consisted of 4000 men, 150 c
only were found fit for duty who were
made prisoners 0/ war, 2000 were sick in
the hospitals. General Cufline had been
at Paris : the latt of June as stated in our
latt, he had set out for the army, previous
to which lie had informed the executive
council that the army deftincd to act against
the prince Saxe Cobourg mutt be encreaf
ed till it amounts to 120,000 men, in addi
tion to which he required another army of
60.000 to make inctirfionsinto the enemy's
country; with this force he promises never
to return except he is victorious. The
sieges of Valenciennes and Mentz were
going on ; the French making forties daily.
It was afl'erted as a fact that the combin
ed forces could have 110 hopes of taking
Valenciennes without the facrifice of
20,000 human beings, and when accom
plilhed, they had no more than prepared
for the capture of Lisle, which could not
fail of coding them at lealt 50,000 more—
on the 6th and 7th of July, an immense
number of wounded soldiers of the com
bined armies arrived at Brufl'els from ihe
camp before Valenciennes. Another train
of waggons, with the fame freight, arrived
on the 30th of June preceding. Prodigi
ons desertions prevailed from the combin
ed armies. At Lisle at lead 30, on an ave
rage, came in every day. —On the 15th of
July 4000 more English troops were
under orders of embarking for the conti
nent i a petition was signing at Glasgow
by many thousands of the citizens, againfl
the war; a«td it was agreed every manti
faftnring town in England, Scotland, and
Ireland would fiiortly do the fame.
On the 3d. of July eleven sections of the
department of Paris announced their ac
ceptance of the new conttitution.—The
son of Louis Capet, on the 3d. of July,
was removed fioin his apartment in the
temple ; in consequence of a resolution of
the committee of public welfare. The
difcoiifolate widow of Louis Capet was
Separated from her son with much
difficulty. Your-g Capet was put under
the care of citizen Simon and his wife.—
On the sth the Convention were informed
that a Pflay, two leagues only from Paris,
was taken fy the insurgents. Twenty
thousand men were inttantly raised in Pa
ris only. The insurgent genera', Evereux
had ten thousand,
Oil the 6th 6f July the garrison in Va.
lenciennes made a te. rible/or/ze, in which
clicy deltroyed all the enemy's works,
and Slaughtered :in immeme number of
their men. Such were the etxefis and
fuccefles of the gar r: full on several fitnil-ir
occasions, that it was thought the enemy
would no longer be abie to take any posi
tion to attack the place. The greatest
engineer in the world, M. Lafite, iTirrOed
the operations in Valenciennes—l*he com
bined armies had begun the reconqueft of
Savoy ; little more than frequent ikirinifties
had hitherto taken place, with various suc
cess. One of the insurgent armies had
been completely defeated near the town
of Nancy. They were totally routed
with great fl- ;hter. Lord Howe failed
the,lsth of Ji ly with the channel fleet,
some Ruffian {hips of war, and tranlports
with 12000 troops on board: their object
was said to be a descent on the coast of
Mrittany, where the people are in general
favourable to royalty.
Breda, May 28. The patriots of Holland
derive hopes from their natural courage;
and in a thousand persecutions which are
exe'ted, they fhev. that they arc not un
worthy to fufiVr in the came of liberty.
At present, without protection, they aie
delivered up to the refenlment of the court
of the Stadtholder, and that court is impo
litic enough to' exercise its vengeance,
when there is cert.'inly but a tingle flep by
which its yoke can ever be ftrengthjened.
They purfwe, therefore, with ripriur, all
who are fitfpcfied to have fV-voured th«
French invasion of Holland. They even
produce the letters, true or falfe, with
which the wealthy merchants invited Du
mourier as a conqueror, and engaged for
an advance of money by their filbfcriptt
ons. Forty-two of these persons have
been arraigned, who are poffefled of offices
either civil or military'
Paris, July 3. The ft'ifiofi cf the Nati
onal Convention have, except the preci
pitate formation of the conftituiiin, oller
ed 110 discussion worthy of remark for this
month pall- This inaition, however, au
gurs but badly; this calm appears to be
the forerunner of a itorm, the ueceffary
result of the A. hi fin which prevails in gene
ral throughout France, of which the con
trariety of the addrefies which are daily
presented to the alfembly is a convincing
proof. Some contain ilie ttrifteil adher
ence to the transitions of the 31H of May
and the 2d of June; others contain the
molt marked disapprobation of them, ex
preiitd in the mod menacing manner. A
fatal division in fine, c!illra£ts Fiance, and
Paris seems to be particularly threatened.
The provisions of every kind which pafg
through the departments of Normandy in
their way to Paris, are flopped 011 the road,
and above 30 waggons with butter remain
feizid at Caen.
PHILADELPHIA.
Saturday, September 7.
An extraordinary phenomenon, happen
ed i<i the river La Plata, in South-Ameri
ca, in April lad. An impetuous wind rose,
and blew with a violence so extreme, that
it drove the waters of the river ten league*
diftamefrom its banks. All the neigh
bouring country was inundated—the bed
of the river was left dry. This terrible e
ruption difcovereti vefiels which had been
101 l for thirty years—they found among
others an Englifli (hip which was wrcckcd
in the year 1762 —many peifons went to
the place, and walked all about the bed of
the river with dry fret; and. returned
loaded with the filverand spoils which had
been ("wallowed up in the vefiels. This
phenomenon. \\ hich ought to be ranked in
the number of the grand revolutions of na
ture, lalted three days, at the end of which
time the wind ceased, and the waters re
turned with grand impetuosity to the na
tural bed of the river.
By order of the governor of Connecti
cut, a party of militia took pofleffion of the
British brig Nancy, lent into New-LfTndon
oil the lOth ult. prize to the Petit Demo
crat and Carmagnole, Frei.ch privateers;
one fitted out in the (late of Delaware,
ar.d the other at Philadelphia.
Several addresses, from different counties
and towns, have been publiOied in late
newspapers, exprefling to the President of
the United States, the approbation of the
inhabitants of his proclamation, enjoining
neutrality towards the belligerent powers.
On Wednesday last a number of French
men, who had been sailors and marines,
&c. 011 board the Jupiter in New-York,
and who had deserted from that (hip,svere
apprehended near Kensington, on their
way into this city, by a party of the mili
tia, ordered out by the governor, under
authority of a warrant from the Chief Jus
tice and judge Shippen. They were after
wards brought before the Chief Juflice;
and after an examination, they were deli
vered up to the Consul of the French Re
public- They ard lodged iagaol, and will
probably be tried by a court-martial.
We are autborifed to inform the public,
that the buildings in the new Federal city
are rapidly advancing: tfcePrsidcm*sia>nfc'is built one fio!*y high ; the crpitot sri«l J
liotel are in a conliderable (fate of forward- I
liefs, and there are upwards of fiity houses
Jiniftied, among which are a number ot ca
pital brick buildings. There are upwards
of 120 of the artists aud best mechanics in
the world now employed in the conltruc
tion of that city.
The governor of New-Providence (Dlin
more) lias iiJiied orders that the crews of
American vefleis, fi/peifed of hiving French
property on board, and taken by Englifli
privateers, fliobld be confined 111 irons until
tlieir arrival in port.
" / 'fid f"rg nt the foul con/piracy
Of t'iut bzajl, 'Caliban /."
The Concorde and Nqrmande frigate;
arrived ai New- York 011 Wednesday morn
ing lal>- They brought in %\i:h them a
prize brig taken by the Favourite, that
Jailed a few days before from N. York or
a cruise. The prize is from Honduras, nni
(aid to be valuable.
We are informed l>y Capt. Chauncy, ol
the Slow Abigail, arrived here on Frida)
eveninj—that on the 17th ult. being 011 hi:
p-rtTige from Martinique to this port, i:
lat. 27, 5?. long- 72. he defcritd, about s
o cluck, P. M. a large fail to windward
bearing down upon him, which, at 9 o'clocl
announced her approach by a cannon (hot
—Capt. Chaitncey immediately orderec
the courses of the snow to be hauled U(
and the main top-fail backed. His order:
were not executed, however so expediti
onlly as the captain of th* fii'p though
they fliould be ; for.in the faaie minute :
fecund (hot was discharged, which eutere<
the inainmaft; 111 the fpadfi of a few mi
ruites, a lieutenant came on board ; am
after fpetiding fume confderable time it
looking over the papers, ordered the Capt
and Mr. Andrews a pdlenger, whA hue
Ihipped chief part of the cargo, to go 01
board the (hip with him. Accordingly the)
went, and were ordered to wait upon dtck
s:itil the papers were duly examined. Hk
exam-nation continued almolt two hours:
daring tvhich time the Captain and Mr,
Andrews, were surrounded by the crew
aud fuhje£led o answer every impertinen:
quelVton which they were piealed to de
mand. At length the captain of the (hip
which proved to be the Europa, an Englifl
64, made his appearance : and in an atti
tude expreilive of the lfioft sovereign con
tempt, and in a loud a fid domineering tons
afl;ed them a number of qweflions, inter
spersed with many impudent reflection:
against the Americans. This scene beinj
ended, Capt. Chauncy refpeflfully allied
the big captain, togive him such materials a;
would answer to filh the mainmafl, whic!
had been disabled by his (hot ; otherwifi
he feared lie (liould not be able to carr;
fail. The captain answered, "My man
we dont keep these things to give away
therefore all: for nothing here ; my boa
will carry you back to your veflel when yoi
, like; here, take your papers."
In conference of a dangerous majigrian
fever prevalent in the Weft-ludia islands
the Mailer Warden of this port, has givei
orders tiiat no veflel from thole parts flia!
approach nearer than Mud-Itland, till the;
have been (iriotly examined Dy the Healti
officer.
An astronomer of note, at Tarbes, ii
France, discovered on the 17th of May lall
a Comet in the conllellation of the Crow.
Its right afcenfioii was then 1 81 degrees
and had 16 degrees of southern declination
It was just discernible by the naked eye
On the 27th it disappeared.
Extras of a letter from New-York, datec
September 4. .
" We have horrid accounts here of s
peflilential fever raging in Philadelphia,
that has already in a great measure obflruSl
ed the general course of business ill that city.
Travellers from your quarter are looked
upon here with a jealous eye ; and I have
no doubt but in a few days, if the malady
continues, persons of this description will
have to perform a quarantine at Ambjy,
Elisabeth town, and Powles-hook. till the
infection apprehended is lo far evaporated
from their cloathes, or exhaled from their
stomachs, as not to endanger the public
health upon their arrival in town."
Extract of a letter from London, July 17-
" I mull refer yo j to the papers for pub
lic news, and only tell you, that it is the
prevailing opinion here, that an honorable
peace is near at hand. We have had 110
failures of confluence for Tome time part,
and I think the want of money and confi
dence to foblide. Your friends are getting
up. I can with great truth allure you,
our government and the public in general
(hew every disposition to cultivate h anno
xiy with your States, and I sincerely hope,
that the rage for privateering may n<jt in
| terfere."
Tile engagement mentioned in our l-aft,
between the French {loop of war, Marseil
les, & her prize the Good Intent, of Bristol,
turns out a falfehood. There was scarcely 2
gun fired, &. only one boy nightly wounded.
" Citizen Genet, minister of the Frencj;
Republic, pnblilhea his proclamation or
Wednesday last, in confequenceof the con
fufed (late of the French fleet now at New-
York, by which the unarmed officers anc 1
men on board of the Jupiter are ordered
to lodgings on fliore, wjiitjl is to be paid
for by the minifler, anil-tliat all those who
will not re-enter, Biall receive an ac
count of what is <lne ; that Citizen Vre
iln take charge ot said (hip, and of Gen.
Galbaud, and that he choose 2 officers, 40
tailors, and 6 soldiers, who (hall remain
uader his orders to guard the (hip."
A number of friends of liberty and truth,
have alfjc.iated in New-York, to draw up
daily a (hort account of authentic intelli
gence, for the life of the French crews in
that port, in order to contradict the effect of
incendiary writings and fabricated news,
dittributed on board the (hips of the Re
public by difaftefted persons.
Gen.'Galbaud, we hear, after escaping
from tile Jupiter, was arretted not tar
from T> T ew-York on his way to Canada,
with ail his accomplices. The Englilh,
h»wever,»(fifttH by fomeErench emigrant?,
have accomplidted his escape a second time.
M. Genet'is making evety exertion for
retaking him.
On the 2 rft of June the king of England
addrefled liis parliament. He breaths little
else than a spirit of war, and determinati
on to pnrfue it with vigoifr till Franae (hall
be reduced to terms fatisfaffory to the
combined powers. A'l the various report:
of a speedy peace, occ. may therefor* be
looked upon as groundless.
Extract «'f a letter from a gentleman a:
Canardurqui, dated the i6tli of Augull,
J 793-
" As a report cf the commifiioners ap
pointed lo liiake peace with the hostile In
dians, having been taken and confined by
them, has circulated through the country,
..ntl has ptobably reached you, 1 am happ)
to have it in my power to inform you, that
it is void of foundation. Gen. Chopin's fa
mily received a Tetter troio him yesterday.
dated the third of the prel'ent mouth, ii:
which he acquaints them, that they line
hail fevera' conferences with the hofti'.i
Indians, and that everything was conduc
ed in the molt friendly manner, and that
they had'the strongest reafort to expert that
an advantageous and honourable peace
would fiiortly be colluded."
Extratt of a letter from a gentleman
York county, to iris friend in Pittlburg,
dated August 12, 1793' v
"As to political news nothing excites
oar attention of a domestic nature, unless
that of the prefect noise about candidates
f«r governor, of thele I am well convinc
ed that William Fin Aley has by tar the
"reateft chance both in this and Franklin
county. He will be the only man who is
a candidate, that will meet with feeble ot
perhaps no opposition in this country; lome
may wonder at this, but it is neverthelefi
true. The other candidates have all, their
1110 ft violent enemies here, and Mr. Find
ley has somehow of late become ver>
popular here, even with the moll
priucipal characters ; he has never gained
so much popularity in his life 'by any
one icVion, as by that zealous oppofitior.
which he made in Congress last winter tc
John Steele, concerning the military eftab
lifliment. A Governor from the weft lide
of Sufquehanna will be a new tiling. Mr.
Findley niilft be the fucce(»ful candidate,
the other candidates are set up by a verj
few influentiar characters, but the formei
is the man of the multitude, in which mul
titude is contained as well the great mas:
of the people (who by the bye never thirl
wrong in the end) as thofc whose informa
:ion, candour, and honesty of heart alway:
iirect to think and ast right."
[Pittibg. Gaz. ]
Baltimore, Aug. 30. Yesterday arrivec
lere the schooner Franklin, captain Mat
:hcw Pawfort, in 17 days from Guadaloupe
via. St. Enftatia—by Whom wc learn
that on Monday the 12th inft. at noon
Port Louis experienced a severe hurricane
which continued till near midnight, an<
that about 2 o'clock P. M. he was obligei
to put to sea without papers. Captair
Pawfon loft his boat, fever.-d cafksof water
.mil ma iy other articles off deck. He bori
nway for St. Euftatia, where he was in
formed, that the hurricane began at thai
place, the fame day at about 10 o'clocl
A. M. at which time abotit 33 fail ofveifel:
lay in the road, all of which, except om
brig, were either drove to sea or on Ihore
th<Tlatter mostly wrecked. Capt. Pawfoi
left St. Euftatia the 25th iiift. at whicl
time none of the veflels that were drivei
to sea had returned. It is expefled tha
they foundered, as „ great number offpar:
have been found.
Captain Pawfon was also informed, thai
the greater part of the (hipping at St. Kitts
and Nevis were drove 011 shore, nioft ol
which were Americans, captured and fem
in as prizes by the British. At Nevis, a
Guinea (hip, with 350 negroes on board,
was overset. All on board, except 16 le i
men, who raved theniielves by getting on
the ke«l, were drowned. The negroes
belonged to a man who had 7 veflels em
ployed in that trafiic, and who was drown
ed with them. An American schooner
was loft at St. Bartholemews. The
schooner Eliza, of Baltimore, was to fail
from St. Euftatia a day or two after
capt. Pawfon's departure,
In the Hottft of Reprefentatlves of Pennfyj
vania, Sept. 5.
" The clerk of the l'enate, being intro
duced, delivered to the chair an extract
from the journals of that hotife ; which
being read, imported, that the ferjeant at
arms 6f the Senate having a fumnions for
John Nicholfon, the Comptroller General
of this Commonwealth, to appear at the
bar of that houfeto answer certain charges
exhibited againit him, served thefaid sum
mons 011 a servant girl, living in the hdufe
of that officer, and made return on the
laid summons " 'ihdt John N'cho 'Jou
:ottFd net be found," ligned " Francis Sny
let;" Whereupos, the senate resolved,
that all proceedings against that olficei
!henld be poitponed lint ill the next fetlion
as the kgiflature ; this mefl'age was read a
iecond time, and agreed to."
On the fame day the legislature of the
Hate adjourned, fine die.
C 0 M MU NJ CATION.
" When I have any fort of dispute with
my neighbour, I always make out my ac
count current, as the surest mode of bring
ing him to reason. Yon have herewith the
profpetlnsof our public disputes."
DEBTOR,
The United States—their account current
with the French Minister.
i 793, Aug. To one large maiig-N
nant, and wicked Lie, to/
divide the friends of Frances io,occ
—valued by the Britifli mi-v.
niftr;'at io,oool. fieri. J
CREDIT.
'793, Aug- 3y W.Wilcocks.for? 2 CQO
printing, pubiifiiing. &c. $ '
By my Lord Chief Jullice-%
, Jay, for midwifery and /
certificate of birth, his f
one fifth of merit J (
By Rilfus King, do. 3,000
By the little secretary, for 3
facilities and credit 5
By the big secretary, for 1
reports, &c. i
By the governor >f the")
woods, for his gracious £ £00
ftiell'age . . J
By his Scotch fecretai"y - 250
And to so much as he may 1
advance to find out the f 250
original author . J
By balance to be hereafter")
fettled by the G—t of I
the U. S. & the French f 4 ' oo °
Republic - J
Sterl. £. 10,000
Philadelphia. 30th Augilft, .
Errors excepted.
£ X T R A C T.
" THE ill-fate of Louis-Capet being
yet the topic of conversation for our gen
try to display the susceptibility of their
jffumed feelings, I find myfelf induced,
as from a natural impulse, to take up my
pen to give an answer to their much agi
tated queflion : " Who gave authority"
fay they, " to the French nation to try,
judge, condemn and execute Louis Capet
Hrs crimes. I know well enough, that
fophidica!, parasitical writers may <vrite
whole volumes to prove the illegality of
the proceedings of that exalted peopl* a
gaiiift their king; but people who read
such writers wotild do well to consider. that
the French, to be confident with them
selves, could not ail from precedent; their
fyflem of renovation, their system of rege
neration, could admit of noise. They
therefore mult have acted from an inward
conviction that they were right; and that
the death of one king, or the death of one
blacksmith is preferable to that of tlion
fands of other citizens. Thus ailing, they
have proved their wifdoni to the world."
extract;
" THE major part of mankind, from
the total want of education, are deprived
of all knowledge except what is abloluteiy
necefliiry te their immediate fubfillence :
snd for the moil part they are infidioiifly
kept in a (late of brutal ignorance and
mental depreflion, that they may be led to
regard their rulers as beings of a superior
class. Statesmen snd priefls well know
that knowledge is the mortal enemy of
Hate-craft and prieft-cralt, and therefore
in all kingdoms, and in all ages, they have
uniformly let their faces againit free dif
cullion „nd enquiry. Leave the care of
your fouls to me, fays the priefl—of your
liberties and properties to me, (ays the
llatetman—pay your taxes, and put your
trufl in us : but carefully avoid all writ
ings and meetings, a»d convcrfations tbout
articles of belief, or the rights of man."
The means of national education are not
found in Charity or Sunday schools ; thele
partial remedies, and therefore un
uft. The great objects of education at
liofe places are pfalm-linging, and learn
ing a habit of servile tivil ty to every pailen
ger vrith a tolerable toat o« ki» baijc. Tie
children are alA> sedulously educated n
bits of" bigotted reverence for the mii;i!tci
of religion, and the unintelligible jargon
or incited to become fiick.lv-: <
for this or that tenet or article of bei J":
Public schools should difrlpim all connexion
with religions setts of every denomination,
it being well known that each and every (t
filch ferts iias always some petLy inter eft of
its own, paramount to every other confide,
ration, and that each forms a corpora:e
body, actuated by a party-spirit, seldom, if
ever, in unison wirh the interelts of a na
tion. The friends of mankind wifli to Ice
one great corporation, and one only per
manent corporation—that of the commu
nity. Then we (hall fee one great and pel -
manent, one predominant inteieft—that at
he community."
—.-MEBSBK3SBM— ——-
A Supplementary
O D E
By Jonathan Pindar. Esquire.
Hen, qtiam d'fficile ejl crimen non pro
lere Ovid.
Zi/Jfis pro crepitu, no doubt an art is
(Not easy to translate in decent phrase*)
But understood, and praitif'd by the par
ties
Thac would be tippermo/l in modern days.
Thus moderate men, who twenty years'
ago
At independence frown'd and inade wry
faces.
Of mother Britain's rights made much
ado ;
Meant nothing more, than just to keep their
places
So wheii our fo/dieri perilh'd on the
decks
Of prijon /hips,—or died by exaltation A
Vile tories, trembling for their forfeit
necks,
Loudly exclaim'd again!! retaliation.
So when our Daddy-V'ice\ bewrought his
brain
To tell us all of lords, & dukes, Sc kings,
No doubt his li/orjhip counted all the
gain
Which from pre- eminence & title springs.
So when our triple-headed Publius
bark'd
Like Cerberus at unbelieving Anty, f
Each projelyte-monger for himfelf hall
mark'd
Of federal loaf and Jrjh no portion scanty.
Thus A*** and ST so eager to
repair
The tatter'd of our public credit.
To patch the garment better, thought in
fair
On their own meagre Csrcaffesto/prtadit-
Thus Atlai to support his paper Throne
And give iti faithful guards another Jop.
To pay off France, propof'd a further
loan,
3aps of instrumentality to flop.
Thus AntigaUicans and Briti[h-mon
grels ||
Who at republican fuccefre* sweat.
Buzzing like ("warms of flies from fiftjf
dunghills,.
Have Neutrals turn'd to viliff Ge
net
As witches, hating people, to torment:
'em,
stick pins in images that represent ''em.
■
• For the original definition of this arts.
:he reader is requested to refer to Hudi
jras, Canto lit. line 830. &c.
t For the number of American prifonsrs
privately executed in NeW-York fee the
confefiion of one Cunningham, a British de
puty commissary who' not long (Ince met:
with his proper reward in the fame way.
J If there be any office under the fede
ral government perfectly luperfluous, it is
ureiy that of Vice-President, except in
.he event of the Presidents death, or re
moval from office. At all other times the
jffice may ftri£tly be faid-to confer Ohurtt
cum drgnitcite. The senate might certain
ly have been entrusted with the choice of
heir osvn speaker, from among their owii
body. ,
§ There is an iHiberality in f )ns of the
etters of Publius that disgraces the admi
able talents displayed throughout tliag
work. .
t The whole credit of this beautiful
niece «f patch-work is not exclufivey due
0 these gentlemen. Locus t/l et pluribus
umbrit. ■ i
|| Those who having p'rofejfedly become.
:itizens of the United States retain their
ormer devotion to the Sritifli, arid antipa
thy to republican governments. Of these
ihe poet fays, Ccelum, non Auitnuin mu
tant.
fcJ>As Jonathan is neither acquainted
svith the full measure of the crimes imput
ed to the FkeSch Ambassador, nor.
heard any thing either in vindication or
lenial of the charges him, by Mess.
W'tcox c 7 Co, he waits to be betier inform
ed than he is at present before he presumes
ro join the fraternity above deferred jjf
kia-Jne about hitFrom the Fayetteville Gazette.
THE Americans are censured by the
advocates of Monarchy, for fenti
men tally, if not practically efpoufmg the
cause ef France, considering little or no
thing in the cafe, but the TexceffeS and
crimes which the people of France have
been led to c«mmit in the course of their
revolution.
Were there only one point of light in
■which the fubjeft could be viewed were
there nothing to be contemplated but the
massacres, afTaffinations. lieentioufnefs, See.
■which has sprung ou£ of their state of
conftifion, their clalning interests and ifri
tatcd passions ; every friend tojuftice, hu
manity and good order, could not but re
probate their cause as well as proceedings ;
because, were thin in fact the cafe, the
object would be no other, than a dellruc
tiou as the bonds of society, and filling
the wofld with all the evils that flow from
Jicentioufncfs, with a view to an even
tual remedy. But in this (lite of licen
tious disorder, which now prevails in
France, is involved aYi ohjeft of moment
ous concern, not only to that nation, but
to all Europe—perhaps to all mankind—
"an ohjedt which cannot be detached, let
the views and designs of the prefeat lead
ers in France be as they will.
Independent of every connette'd consi
deration and circumllance, as well as of
private views "<nd public declarations, the
main question, as the real object of contest,
now referred to the sword for decision, by
France and the combined powers, is
whether a monarchical government (hall
be re-eftabliihed in Fiance, or whether a
republican government (hall remain ? This
is ihe objedlof the war, in which mankind,
either directly or indirectly, are pretty
generally interested ; so much so, that
there are but few who do not feel an an
xiety about the decision. But before any
man can rationally join his good wi&es to
the cause, either on the one fide cr the
other, it is requisite for him to determine
•whether a monarchical, or republican fyf
tem of government, is bed calculated to
communicate and secure to the people the
greatest degree of social happiness ; that
being the only rational objedl of govern
ment—For to cfpoufe a cause without ex
amining and Heterming on its merits, ar
gues prejudice and partiality void of reason-
For my own part, I candidly profefs
an attachment to republicanism, and a dif
approbation of monarchical systems.TThis' s
preference proceeds from certain conside
rations, which are briefly these ;
Monarchy, in its original state and cha
rter, is indivifibl; and absolute, and has
for its general and primary objeift, the ag
grandizement of the monarch. To attain
which fully, it has some particulars, as se
condary obje&s of attainment; as
ift. Ihe exaltation of the monarch a
bove the people, to a supreme rank of ima
ginary dignity and glory. The intention
df which is, to gratify a spirit of pride
and vain glory, ana to inspire the minds
of the people with sentiments of awful
fear and reverence.
To this end, a monarch, the moment a
crown is put on his head, it transformed,
as if by magic, into something supernatu
ral, and becomes deified ; for, from that
instant, he arrogates, and claims certain
attributes, titles and epithets, which no
man hath a right to claim ; they being
applicable only to the supreme being.
2d. Another object of the monarch is,
to be established beyond the reach of ac
countability. He will therereforegive no
account of his conduCl, either public or
private to any man or body of men, nor
become amenable to any law. He holds
his person as sacred, and in point of any
human law, he declares himfelf immaculate.
3d. Another objtiTt is power and wealth
H'.s will, therefore, is the supreme law,
and he claims the unqualified submission
of the people, together with the property
of the nation, either in the gross altoge.
ther, or in detail, as befl answers his pur
poses. These claims, in their operation,
debase the people, and render them poor,
dependent and servile ; strip them of that
dignity with which human nature is cloth
ed, divest them of every tfTential right, and
leave them no alternative but that of o
bedience, or punishment. Slaves, there,
fore, in fact, are the fubjefts of monarchs,
let their nominal condition be as it will).
This is a material otjedl with monarchs,
for without a contrail of poverty, uebafe
ment, and menial subserviency, the power,
wealth, and splendid magnificence of roy-
•ilty, could never appear to advantage,
ior fliine forth with that resplendent lus
tre which the vanity of monarchs aspires to
—neither without this, could they prose
cute to their projects of ambition —
and
4th. Another object of monarchy is
conquest—a monarch therefore, claims
the right of quarrelling with other mo
narchs, whenever, and upon trhatever pre
text he pleases ; and of setting his flavfs
or. the (laves of others, to murder, plunder,
biir 11 and dellroy, to render wretched and
mjferable millions of poor creatures, who
have no personal animosity towards each
other ; and who would remain in fafetyj
peace and content, were it not for the di.'
abolical pride and vanity of monarchs.
The evils and miterks of war, are natu
ral and neceflary consequences of monarch
ical ambition, and all monarchical fyflems;
for, in royal eftrmation, the mod tremen
dous displays of the power of the sword,
is the very height of human glory ; and
therefore a bufintfs proper for monarchs to
be engaged in—lndivifible and nbfohrte
monarchy then has in view as its object
'lie aggrandizement of the monarch, and
i» a neceflary means of its attainment, a fa
cn'fice of the liberty, common interest and
happiness of the people.
In latter ages, and in some nations, mo
narchies have undergone alteration! they
have been modified by participation and
limitation, and in some inltances it is fup
po'ed, that this modified fyflem isi render
ed in the highest degree perfed. Let
examine this matter a little, and fee how
far mankind are benefited by it.
The only material alterations made in a
monarchical government since its origin
are—a participation of power, wealth and
dignity, and a reftraim laid on the exeef
live exercise of the despotic power of the
monarch, together with certain rights and
privileges, stipulated and granted by the
crown, to the people, which naturally re
fulted frqm the nature of those limitations.
This however is not the c*fe in all nations
There appear to be two original causes
or reasons for such alterations and modifi
cations. The one was, a fear in the mo
narch of overthrow ati'd deftruftion by
the power or intrigues of influential am
bitious men, (landing alone as he origi.
nally did, and unlupported by any perma
nent attached interest.
In all nations there are men of pride
and ambition, who never could be con
tented to fee any one man monopolizing,
and exclusively enjoying a il the wealth and
dignity of a nation. Men of this
are commonly pofTeffed of wealth, and
frequently have in their power to influence
a party fufiicient to overthrow the mo
narch and seize the crown. History re
cords numberless instances of this nature
Monarch*, therefore, being in danger from
this fourca, follnd it neeefiary for their
own security to participate with others in
power, 'wealth and dignity ; to create a
new inteteft, and incorporate in it the in
terelt of the Crown. On this ground stands
the nobility, in their various orders and
ranks, distinguished by various titles of
artifice clothed with imaginary dignity,
derived from the polluted source of mo
narchical arrogance—endowed with ex
ceflive wealth, wrefled, originally, out of
the haiids of the people, by the despotic
arm of power ; and all rendered hereditary
and unalienable by sovereign will and plea
sure. The nobility, therefore, patticipat
ing with the crown, and being intimately
connected therewith, became, and now
continues to be, a permanent and fubflan
tial support to it, and defence against the
ambitious views of individuals. Very few
instances can be produced of the nobility
riling up against the monarch, unless in
cases of competition. We find then that
tne original intention of creating such an
interefl—-of ideally ennobling certain men,
and participating with them in wealth and
dignity, was for the security and defence
of the monarch in his afllimed rank, in his
airogated claims, and in fuppott of his
sovereign will and pleasure, and not for
any benefit the people could derive there
fiom, or any eflential, neceflary purpose a
nobility could answer, in a rational system
of government.
, A FEW COPIESOF THE
transactions
Of the Society itijlituted in the State oj
New- \ ark, for the promotion of
AGRICULTURE, ARTS, and MANU
FACTURES,
May be had at this Office.
[Price half a hollar. J
To be Sold or Let,
Tha t °l't'
I handsome, well-built three story new
house, situate on the east fide of Couth'
f ourth.ftreet, near the Indian Queen, Philadel
puia. J his ntuation is vji U ;ble, being in a
central part of the city, 3n d convenient to the
banKS and public offices. The house is 25 feet
in front, and> with its office-., extends nearly ioc
feet backwards. It has theprivilege of an'alle-.
4 2 fee: »mc The offices are three llories high',
and, together with the house, art built of brick :
thefecontain five apartments, befio'es a walh house,
and tour o. them have fire places. In the dwell
'ng oufe ltfelf, there are nine rooms and eighi
fire places .• fix of the rooms are fpacioxis, and al
falhlonably finiflied. The garrets are ceii=o : th<
fta.r-cafe ,s elegant. There is a good cellar unde:
the whole, and in the yard a pump.
And to be Sold,
*3'° Acres ofunircproved land.iS miletjfrom th<
thriving toWn of Harrilburg, Pennsylvania. Thi
tradt lies in a vale,, and is said to be verv goo<
(arming land. There are one or more mills neai
the premiles. The river Juniata is about fiv,
miles dirtant ; whence it is boatable into the Suf
juehanna, and thtnce to Harrifkurg. Also,
A difiraWt rtrrtat, or farm, in Newtown, th<
county town of Bucks, Pennsylvania : contain
mg nearly;, 5 acres of land, naturally very rich
and now highly improved. It it surrounded on al
fiees by public fueets or roads; and may, with
orefent advantage, be converted into town lot;
chat w.Truld prove of growing importance. Then
is a commodious brick h»ufe upon the premises,
two ftorie. height, having four rooms on n
r, a 'paCious entry or paflaje throughout, anc
a cellar extending under the whole hotlfe. It i.<
we.l accommodated with out houses. About thre<
a,c occupied by an orchard of the bed graft
ed Newtown pippins r distant from Philadelphia
25 miles ; from Trenton 9 ; from Eiiftol 11 j anc
IS Witnm five miles of the river Delaware. Th.
ntuation 1, extremely healthy ; the profpefls ar<
charmingly and the neighbourhood
arioris a genteel society.
Bcjldei the above,
Two corner lots in the town, of one acre each
are ortereu tor lale, together with about 16 acre:
't excellent land, half a mile from the town
under the belt culture and implement. Tw,
or three of these acre? are in timber.
Liiiwifc :t be Sc.'J.
An cflmailt farm of J3 t. acres, in the count)
of C-ieifcr, >9 miles from Philadelphia : 100 acre
ot which are ps the richert bottom. The wiiol,
fl this land elljoys a kind, „ n d fertile foil
>s well watered, and ad mil ably adapted to th
raising of grain and all kinds of stock ; at prefer
there are nearly ;o acres of made-meadow, am
20 or 30 more ot watered meadow ma, he madi
at plea/ure : about 200 are luxuriantly covere,
■vith « variety of valuakle timber. Upon th
prem.fes, theie are a farm house, barn; i-c.
never-tailing Itre.m of good water, ar.d'a mot
productive apple-orchard covering about fix acres
the fruit of a good and lading quality : the pur
thaler may be accommodated with all or any par
of the (lock or farming utensils upon the place
I he pofi.ion of this farm is important, lying 01
both .ides of the main road, and bounded south
. y b > th « t" Philadelphia through Down
ing-town whence it is distant 12 or 1 3 miles
On tile noith it isboundrd by the road to Warwicl
Furnace, situate but a few miles oiftant. At thi
point, the premises enjoy a capital stand both so
a ore and tavern, and also an eligible fituatioi
tor a village, which would here have fonv
commanding advantages, and might be an objef
to any gentlemen wiihing to found an estonfivi
and profitable settlement. On the one fide, ii
has a dircft communication with Downing
town ; and with the rich and populous fettlemes
Ot Coneftogo valley on the other, both lying with,
in a short ride of the place. There is already 1
market here tor produce at the Phil.delphi.ipr.ices
— the neighbouring iion-works creating a conllani
demand. Plenty of good iimeftonemay be ha (
within 5 miles of the premises,. aod a rip-lit t«
make use of it will be conveyed by the pionrie.
tor if required. In fliort thi. farm deserves th,
attention ol any pe.fon or persons inclined ; c
avail themfeWcs of aovantages such as those ii
ponefles.
_ I he title to the several premises are indifp,, ta
ble ; and the proprietor will warrant to defer,c
them. The terms of sale, for all or any „f tht
lands, will be made accommodating to the purcha
fers. For farther particulars, apply to the t!ib
Icriber, at No. 6, south Fourth-street, oral hi
(lore, the corner of Market and Thi.d-flrects
Philadelphia,
ROBERT SMOCK.
8* ». w. t. f.
WANTED,
INTWO OR THREE MONTHS,
AN APPRENTICE
To A
REGULAR APOTHECARr.
A Youth nor less than fifteen or fix'eet
years ot age, with a suitable education ant
good moral chafer— For further parti
culars enquire of the Editor. 2avvtf
METEOROLOGICAL OBSERVATIONS.
August 1793*
<r rj D - H Barm.Tbtr. IV, n i. | IVcatlc
Tuesday, 27 . 6 3 0. 2 6 j N.E. CUutly.
1 N.F. do-
H'cdn.Jduy, 1%. 6 30. 2 67 ~
3 3°- M So calm Ch a „r f
Tburjd.y, 29.6 30. l 6 ?2 T^rciTuir
3 J£lii| 86 S.W. Fair.
?r,da U 30. 6 30. , ?4 -7^
3 3"- 1 87 S.W. do-
Saturday, 31.6 30. o 74 S.W. (Rain.
3 30- O S4 N.W. Fair.
Sunday, ~ 0 j„. „ 7 , 777.
3 29. o S6 S.W. Fair.
Monday, j. 6 » 9 . s _ w# f—
3 29. Sj S6 , do. a'j;
PRICE CURRENT.
. Dollars. Cents.
(100 Cents make 1 dollar. J
AhES, pot per ton I3o j
——pearl ditto 134(1 to , 4 od
Batoft, flitches per lb Bto o C
moulders do '
Beef, Boston per barrel j, d
—Country do Jd/oiad
Beer, American in bottles
including bottles per doz. i d 74c
—'—ditto per barrel
Bees wax per lb 26c 2 g c
Brandy, Coniac per gal 90C ~ loc
—common do Soc to Bj c
Butter in kegs per lb loe I2c
Cneele, Country per lb 8c 12c
En £l''h joe
Chocolate .0 "
/11 „ . 20C
Coal per bufliel 24C ~
Codfifh per cwt ~1 .
Coffee per lb , J c
Copperas per ewt id'67c
Cordage, American per cwt 7d 6-c od
Cotton per lb 2d ' c
Max per lb ~ r v
Flaxfeed per bufli.
Flour fuperfine per barrel 6d.
common .
Bur-middlings, best
Meal Indian per bbl, 2( 1 s>c
Rye, do , d .
Gin, Holland per cafe 66c
—— per gallon 80c c OC
Ginseng 20 c 24c
Gunpowder, Fine glazed per qr e 4 d 2 C
Grain, Barley per buihei ,d 4
Bert Ihelled per bushel 6-c
Buckwheat per buihei JL
Indian coin
ferfey, do ££
Oats „
Rye ■
Wheat icoctoiso
J" ms . P er lb , 9 c to ,oc
riemp, imported per ton wo d , Jot , 6
——American per lb 4C '
-tides, raw per lb rr .
" lOpS 2&C
rloaey per lb
Indigo, Carolina per lb id id »c~
: French , d 30 c id 6 7 g
Lron, Bar per ton g l£ j
Caftitigs per cwt
Nail-rods per ton ioid ,\c
!,' g f 24*
Sileet I 7 5d c
Irons, fad per ton i 3 l d yc
Lard hogs per lb 9C f,
Leather, foal per lb 17c 2cc
Myr'lewax per lb , 2C>
Molasses pergallon "-cc
Mustard, flour, in bot. per doz. id soc
—second quality, per doz. g- c
Nails, 8d lod i2d and 2od per lb. 10c
Oil, Linseed per gallon 16-
OIiVC . S7C
— per " fe 5d los
Tepper per lb 3 g Q
Pimento °
£ itch P" bbl id 73 c'2 9 d
Porter percuik 6
London per doz K | boc
Ainer. bot. inclu. , ( | g oc
Pork, Burlington, per bbl i6d 50c
Lower county , 4d
-Carolina IJ( j
Rite per cwt 3 d 4S £
Rum, Antigua pergal ,j
Barbadoes o- .
Country, N. E.
Jamaica I( j <
Saltpetre per cwt i +; ) , !c
Salt, Allum, perbufh
Cadiz , . l ic c
Li(bon „_ c
Liverpool
SnaUeroot per lb 20C4 ,,
Snuff, per doz. bot. 4 d jd d c
P er !b o^cX-r-
Soap, Brown per lb t '~ >
White g_
Si arch per lb - c
Sugar, tfavannah, white, per lb 14c ,6c
Brown joe nc
Muscovado per cwt od id
Lump per lb
Loaf, (ingle refined, Z"l
double ditto til
Tallow, refined, per lb "
Tar, New-Jersey 24 gal per bbl j ,1
—Carolina, 32 gal 2(1
Tea Myfon per lb 93 c rd , 8c
bXT" 5 «'
Tobacco, James River, best 4,1 >4
Inferior , d
Olri °
B , , 67c
Kappahannrtck - , c
Coloured Maryland sd 12c fid
P ;uk . 2d 4 cc
Long-leaf , d 40c
Laftern-fhore 2 d 2d e;c
Carolina, new 2 d yc I
Old , d \
Turpentine per bbl 2 d 3% I
Wine Madeira, p. p. i;6d 22 fc d
1 sod 126,1
Teneriffe per gal 6 jc
Sherry y OC t Q I( j 2QC
• - 1 . — — —.
PRINTED BY
CHI LD S and S WAINE.
at 7KII > •rrrcs so. i o q, hich-.tiiii,
t*ZA* ri/TH-STR KIT,
'KJLADti.ru J A;