Rv P. FRENEAU-. (at No. 209, Market. Street) Pub Mud Whdnbsdays and Saturdays, [Thres fer annum.]
Numb. 104 of Vol. 11. J
For the National Gazette.
Mr. Freneau.
YOU are requeftti to insert the following
tetter from the Secretary of the Tren/u
---ry, to Air. Amlr'vi G. Frounces, if New
York, with theJub/iquer.t Remarki.
ALBANY, Ott. I, 1793.
as you are, whai
*-* answer could I give to your last let
ter ?
The emlofedis a copy of what will (hort
} j appeal in one of the Gazettes of the city
uf>'ew-Y»rk. " '
A. HAMILTON.
Mr A. G. Fraunces."
" ONE Andrew G. Fraunces. late a clerk
in the treafory department, has been en
deavouring to have it believed. That he is
poffefTed offome fa£b, cis a nature to cri
minate the official conduct of the Secretary
of the treafory i an idea to which, for ob
vious reason«, an exteiilive circulation has
keen given, by a certain description of per
sons. The public may be assured, that the
(aid Fraunces has been regularly and re
peatedly called Ujjon, to declare the
ground* of his fuggeflion, that he has re
peacedly evaded the enquiry, thst he pof
fefles 110 faifs of the nature pretended, and
that he is a defpicabli calumniator."
Remarks #'/ the Foregoing.
The Secretar)*!> intimation, that ihe pub
lications brought forward by Mr Fraunces
have been encouraged by " a certain des
cription of persons," appears to have been
suggested by a spirit cf acrimony. When
the federal government was firft intro
duced, there were two descriptions of
men, who openly avowed the principle?, ol
federal fin and aiiti-fVdtralifm. The fede
ralifts, were those who -claim to the
appellation for being s jainft discrimination,
and becoming purchafsrs of the public
debt; and in julhfication of the Secretary's
official conduct and oath of office, many
have offered to come forward as volun
teers, and mike oath that he never has,
either directly or indirectly, Speculated :
And moreover that the funding fyiVem, be
ing a divine iiiflitution, Mr. Hamilton was
chofeu to receive and promulgate that law,
as Woics did the ten commandments.
Therefore, this defer.ptlon of men cannot
be chargeable with any representation,
that might in any wife calumniate the se
cretary or alienate the public opinion oi
his meritorious Services.
The other description of men are those
called anti-federalifts, who Herein favour
«fdi (crimi nation } who deny the divioitj
of the funding Uvv, and declare thewholt
•Fit calculated to accmimodate the fore
going description of men ; similar to a pi
tent granted by his royal mjjelty Georg*
the second, to a Mr. Wood, to coin haIJ
pence in Ireland. These halfpence were
worth in the market about a 20tli pari
of their nominal value. Old brass was
made a tender in payment of all debts due
from Mr. Wood and his alT'ciates, but cos
receivable tor duties, in the king's treafHry.
or in payment of a-iy Salary, or debt t» any
officer of government. Nearly similar to
this were final settlements issued and tend
ered in payment of all military services, in
lieu of gold and silver, and afterwards pur
chased up by government and others,
from 2/6 to 1# is the pound, with other
monies : and if Mr. Wood and bis confe
derates, after receiving the full.amount ol
their fictitious m»ney, had purchased their
half pence from 2/6 to I}/ in the pound,
and his royal majefly had approved oi ac
import (to be paid in gold & lilver only) on
aIJ the ivjceflaries of life, tu redeem ihore
half pence, the two cases wo.uld have been
exactly similar, and the people of Ireland
r.yld, as the soldiers of the late army are,
'/y did yownot ketp your nominal half
pence until they became real ones ?
The fears of the Secretary that this
iefcriptian cf men, are pursuing him, is as
natural as the fe»ts of Herod, that John
the Baptist, whom he had beheaded, was
come back upon the earth to torment him.
How enviable might have been his feeling!
at this moment; what a quiet and eafj
•onfeience would many other opponents of
ii/crimination at this hour have maintain
ed, had they preferred the simple path of
plain justice and common honcfty, in re
fpeft to the army.—But there is a worm
that dieth not, which amidst their immenli
ty of ill-gotten wealth, will continue to
gnaw the minds of a certain description of
persons, that have thought the labourer
cot worthy of hi « hire, and arc at this hour
SATURDAY* October 26, 1793.
rioting i:i the enjoyHjenC of immesfe
wealth extorted from those who ar», lite
rally, perirtilngfor a inarftfl of bread t
Oclobtr 22, 179 J.
PHILADELPHIA.
SAtuhday, Otiober 26.
The following returns cf the late elec
tion for Governor of this Commonwealth,
may be depended on as authentic.—City
of Philadelphia, votes for Governor Mif
flin. 438 —county, ditto, 569, Buck- 608,
Chester H72, Delaware 309, Northamp
ton 804, Montgomery 1402, Berks 2070,
Cumberland ios4, Northumberland 1443,
Luzerne 352, Alleghany 889, Franklir:'
1422. Total 12,53-?. — r F. A. Muh
lenberg—Philadelphia city 129, county 242,
Bucks 469, Chelter 168, Delaware iiy,
Northampton 755, Montgomery 768. Berks
1345, Cumberland 359, Northumber
land 514,' Luzerne 205, Alleghany 19J,
fran'ilin 1023 —Trtnl 6,258.
The Common Councvl of the city of
Ne\».York have presented five thousand
dollars to Mr. Clarkfon, the mayor, for
:l'e relief of the poor and dillrefied of this
city.
Extract of a letter from 3altimors>
Otiober 17.
•' This day arrived in this port the ffin,
» Britffh vetfei, prize to the French priva
/ateir the Citefi of Bourdeaux, mounting
16 guns, and now cruizing on the coast.
The fame privateer has already captured
lve Englilh veflels, whose value amounts
:o 3 millions of livrea. The His' cargo is
:otton, coffi-e and turtle. French Cit-efs
s the fame frights that had a very severe
fngagement with an Englilh frigate, dn
ing t<vo d»ys, and forced her to retire."
[translation.]
\DDRF.SS from two French Physicians-os
N»w-York to the Citizens of that Ca
pital.
In the prrefent calamitous fifuation of
and after the precautions
■vhich the magiftrati s of this city have ta
ten againlt the contagion there prevailing,
.ve, chief physician and surgeon of the
Trench hospital, have thought it our duty
o publish, monthly, the (late of the said
lofpital. During the month 6f Septem
ler, fix thoufaiul nine hundred md ninety-
Mie persons have applied at the hospital,
which (with the deficiency of .»»<) makes
>33 sick persons per day. Of these fix rtnly
ire dead. The firft died of 3 peripneu
monia propensity; two others of a con
"umption ; and the three last of the con
equenccs of a dyfeniery. Since the ap
proach of cool weather, we have had fe
deral patients seized with fiuxtt, which
«'<? coufider as proceeding from stoppage
if perspiration, and not to be treated with
) simple vegetable regimen.—We take the
present opportunity to cxprefs our regret
it not having seen a fatisfaftory account of
:he symptoms, nature, and treatment of the
Tialady tha* has raged in the city of Phila
delphia. It has been generally reprefent
rd as tihe yellow fever of the Wejl-lniies.
But that species of fever is not contagious.
On tlie contrary, it is a bilious fever of an
extremely difl'olvent and corrolive nature-
In its beginning, it is a fort of cholera
morbus, and towards its termination, ap
proximates to the malady of Siam. Its
.o«flituting ca-ufe is the depravation of all
he humours of the lower belly, and prin
cipally the bile. In fev-eral bodies that
we have opened, the gall appears of a refi
1011s,pitch,yconfinency.foinetifues in a fluid
[fate, but extremely acrid, and of so fer
mentative a quality, that it would ferment
upon a brick. 111 this state it is so very
:orrofive that it produces a gangpene, pier,
ring and lacsrating the cqats of the intef
tii;e< where it is confined. It a£fs very
much like Itrong poisons, in its effetfs re-
Cembling the poison infufed by the bite of a
riper or rattle shake. This disorder gene
rally proves mortal ; but it is not of an In
fectious nature, ar.d most certainly ought
not to be treated with strong purgatives,
fuel) as mercury.
Others have said, that the malady in
Philadelphia was the irenu'ne putrid fever ;
but of what kind ? For there are many
gradations of the putrid fever, from the
simple putrid xo the plague. Amongthefe
are included the small pox, Pringle's jail
fever, malignant remittents, maiiU-fevers,
and ths> p«itilem':al iever.
It is true, we may suppose that * timple
putrid fever, and chiefly the dysenteric fe
vers, fii. y become thv origin oii spreading
contagion, if the neceftary precautions art
not courageoully t3ken, and the cleanness
and neatness of a city fcrupuloirfly attend
ed to, which is Urifily requifite.—lt is a
fact rtjat every contagions disorder derives
iti origin from some feat of tufto)on ; tht
principles of -jihichxre known, such als ftsg
natiiv waters, which have become putrid
after long, hot, and dry fummfrs ; all pla
ces where the air is unhealthy may be feats
of tnnf'gion, such as hospitals, prisons,
links of neceflary-houfes, fi.iughter houses,
common fewer?, butcher's Halls, burying
grounds, &c. &c.
One should be upon the spot to trace the
origin of the disorder in Philadelphia : but
we are inclined to believe that the preci
pitate abandoning of tht fir ft persons tin!
were taken lick ; the terror that took pof
feflion of the minds of the greater part of
the inhabitants; the custom of interring the
dead bodies in the interior of the city ; or
*11 these causes united, may have contribu
ted to spread a disorder, whose ravages
would have beei far less considerable
among a people of firm minds, and careful
in point of cieanlinefs.
Hofpitstriy received as we have been bj
J benevolent nation, it is otfr bufmefs tC
üblerve every dung without preftiming tc
rialse uncandid criticisms. Citizens ol
New-York, susses Us to to you
how many canfes of infeftiou eiift in this
city. The public docks being neglected,
there exhales, at low water, an execrable
[cent, (uflicient of itfelfto fprend an infec
tion. A mephitic vap«rr ahfes alft
from your burying grounds, Itill mors fa
tal. Perhaps some religious or political
principle prevents the citizens from iiiter
ring their dead at a diltance frcrnt the
town, and hinders them from refleftijn; on
the great dangers proceeding from thefq
repolitories oi death, so near the habitati
ons oi the living. Nothing obviates their
constant fatal eftefls, but certain favoura
ble circumflancesof seasons, the difpolition
ami temperature of the air, &c. which pre
vent their always occalioning an epidemic
licknefs, the dangers of which you stand
less in tear of than we are willing to think
prudent. But if all yonrfutureprecautions
[honld not prevent calamities, (iinilar to
ihofethat have afflicted your filler city of
Philadelphia, we both think and fay, thai
it is not in the day of battlp that the officer
ought to fly-■> A physician, if he even was
certain of falling a facrifice to the disorder,
lugfit reverthtlejs to remain at his pofl ana
learn Hon* to die.—LE TE.NDR.iv, j.
BQUVIER.
New-York, October 7, 1793.
Theobjefls of the co"iibine(l powers now
leagued againlt France, appeaj to be as
toliows :—
The Enclilh and Spanish fleet* to irivefl
the Frencn sea ports 111 the Mediterranean,
to attract the attenticn of the Republi.c tc
that quarter, and to ajfift the Sardinian]
in recovering their conntry ; and in enter
icg France.
The' Spaniards crolEng fh£ P^reneef, art
to penetrate into Franc?., and by fapturinj
the fortified places, to eltablilh a cordon pj
posts fufficient to prevent the introduction
of French principles into Spain ; [r; welt
might they /tribe to prevent the northerly
Wind blowing into Spaing and to affilt in
the re-eftab!:fliment of the refra&ory
priests—The fleet under Lor<l Howe ii
sent to la&d a force in Jiriitany, to aftifl
the rebels, if any are left uncgnrjuered.
ThePruflians are to enter Alsace and jLpr-,
raine :—The Auftrians to mar_e!i in the
Duke of Brunfwick's track to Paris, and
the Englifli to attack Dunkirk- This .is
the work said to be cut out for the present
campaign; whether the French will pot
spoil the fafhion of the fylt, .is yet in thej
womb of time } and cannot be
under a number of weeks.
Seme l-oßvlon papers mention the cap
ture of Dunkirk by the Engli(h, witb tlie
loss of 150 fail of vefl'els ,i.n the harbour,
captured »r destroyed. Other Engllih
papers as late as Aug. 12, xngntipn jt .only
as an event that migHJt probably in a few
weeks take place.
In the Theses published ,a! the late corp
mencement at Yale College, it is aflpaed.
that "in the eclipse of the fun on the day
us the crucifixion, the ir.o«n, coatrpry to
the laws 0/ astronomy, was ehfcrve.d ,to
Ctipie under the f|il> frop» the east, and ar
riving at the western limb of his diile, to
(fart back, and witfc a retrograde motion
t« return, and go down in ths east,"—-The
[Total Numb. 208,]
patronizers of laid Theses have been called
upon for tlte evidence, or authority, upafl
which they would support the aflertion.
. Six or seven of the inhabitants of
beth-Town, in New-Jersey, have sent 150
dollars to the mayor of this city, to afljft in
relieving the distresses of the poor. New
port, in Delaware state, bas contributed
300 dollars for the fame charitable purpose-
Vlany oi,?r towns in this and the neigh
bouring states.are preparing to follow their
example. The people of Trenton, we
hear, are liberally contributing to the
relief of their fellowr men here, at the
present distressing criiis.
[From a Correfpoßcfent.")
" if, as has been said, the toss as a
life, is if mere (onjejuertce to the world,
than all th: advantage; derived from the
uje as gun powder, wilt tht great ntil'ty
of Pkrvyian Bark. Wine, and LAXJ
DANVi-I, compu J&te for the death ant (te
(lruciin'l that have universally followed the
nfi cf thoje articles, in the malimtsint
fever? INTERROGATOR."
The Mahometans, it is well known, are
confirmed predellinarians ; and are not ta
be deterred by the Tear of contagion fronx
attending their brethren in d. ft re Is froni
the ravages of thepUgiie.Qrotlier i'nfeftimis
diftetnpers. The mil)akesof rhe head ex
pand the heart there \yith the tide of hu
manity. The dying have thpirexij smooth
ed by the tender offices of si iendtfiip ; $r,d
thpufands ara snatched from an untimely
grave by the force of a happy prejudice. Ic
is true that many qre (hereby plyjiged ipto
the plague, who might otherwise bs»*
avoided it. but the evil is far outweighed
by jhi good which refultj from it } for
from tJtefMdy alfifhoce that ij alw-)- q
divert, thn #fte,mner proves infinitely l#fi
f»»al thi(Trlf»T«r!p othtj~wlfebe.' How dif
rptjp tljeif cpnduct from what thp gfseraji,
ry of' people have n®flifefted in thifi city,
W*i<re,
' The fulfen doc.-, yet jtminfp£led, its
cautioijf hings
bearing to turn, abh»f> fViety ;
Dependants, friends, ielaiionj, Love Jjimw
felf,
savjg'd by woe, forget the tendef tie.
Thfe sweet encasement vf the feeling
heart.''
Extract cf ? letter from ap gen
tleman at tff h'if f/Uiyi id
Virginia, dated Augjift 29, 1793."
" You will no doubt "hear before this
reaches you, that the Fi'ep.rfi h?ve loft twi
Fortresses on the northern Frontier. The
importance of these place* will fee cpnli
:lerubly piagnifiej vyiihyoii—one of jke<n if
without doubt, a place 6f confulerable
fire-ngth 5 But if it is computed dearly
;he confederates h?ve paid forit.it
ie esteemed a jrea* bargain. you Ipay
rely, that from fbf comtttencifntyp $f tjhe
iege of Valenciennes to thi
th? combined .army pot lose Left fha*
:en thousand men, the F/y?nch fay pisr)y
ifoyble that nymbfr-r—th* lose JHefl oiafiiy o*
the Auftriaris. The &rmiicJ* of situ gawi'-.
[po has fwe tl their ,co.ujury ;■ gjCargf* '
nijed : ftate of the arflfqr ,»fter ti# tffifjpprf
as rath, tijiaj the
migbt have advanced veff c*irfiderj£Jy
withoot a etaefc. fegf'of
V*lenci<tiw.«*AD4 Coftik, thp
orgapiaed, and fp te\ofarfe4
defiance tp the f6(r,cher approach cf theu
enetnie?. We ;bav,e tjw
French jh.<gp r fuTrri
uear Mauftcnge, Kj,x j, bay« slot fi&s jtf
learti
letter yft
" y vu' Hjiv*
Pecrae jus Uie
ps eypry !fye<e,ie# 44
(6'k* %VJ
vKnit H> ps.American* I Vtg
•qGi tP .Ps whef ibM ; ipriiV6e#i tl\«. <&&■
yem'm to ftjclppt: ,#e>«6]ne*
troubling-yoii Wft
b.e »je,ry fpi*ijpi fr«m ,t,he J
(hdU only /ay, tftat the lm(e.
feq.t*j|jtitafMifin «f # VSfc 0.
obtain p. difpen,Oition ,ini ,i;h«ir ts§&j
'P W
ffcoofis ,tp jblujit fiy (he Ps .AtthffM
ntft.er -iyiprvsl. fitit .
ttat'li*
%.e,would be/vxfic'wnt ,
r.y< I >v«s in Pvi«a
ifa.w.(he Re pre fc (.*"# ,®lf jfc.- -
P.uW'lS. tiW&i
man, the contenlpribve mtfat'Hihhe * glar
ed in, gave me great mortification. 1 Cot. -
troiicti it with the dlSrcttst aia<f^in tVt- •' <ve place by the jreat fiANKLi*'
—! tr-. t nit our national eharaiicr has
not ■ i?r i. ad in proportion with our
R.'pr T.- : i'ives. I hm* feea another of
a•_!r • ~-"it.it'v=s, political prtri
«'• f' ' t'ly disgrace his country; 11 ay, the
tin.!.?, i-igs it the different port*, in imita
tion of t ie r f:iper?>j."i, hold the fame Ofn
ti ue its, and witlio.it exceptiou C ;, s far as
I have fcen) a;"£ enemies to the Republic
oi r ranee.—Tiio .Ainrrtcnn Confnl at this
port, is jime to Lo don with his wife ; he
c Tried with him tlie mviverfal wifhofhis
con ntrvmen hfre, that lie may never re ;
' turn— He was i Wiging in his ftafion, and
t(fo!; p UTS ta fei •• - us ; but his political
principle", which prudence could not make
liimff.pp.-efs, rendered him univerf d.'v o
dious I >.vas unwarily led into thh
cligrelllon—hut to return to the Decree of
the Convention—.l Snd the vafl profpeefs
(»f indizemenf whlth we expected to
dt-rive from a neutrality, are vanitlied in
ai•*._Th's decvee.togethrt with the interdic
tions of Gre at-Br'tain. have deflrcypd our
plans here ; while the latter is a rude i.t
tKk apon us as on independent hatio.n.
Without yon arm, it is not worth your
while to i>nd your vefi'els to any part of
this country, with anj other cargo V>ut to
bacco, as the Briti.'h Wilt car'y them into
port, and pay for thfettt what they please.
1 long -o hear lioW this will he received by,
vo ] —Ti:e French fay if we fuffer this, that
our independence is oily 'ttlea!, and that
we are Briti.li Colonies, under the title bf
AmericanjSta-.-s. — 1 Time war at all times,
bat at this time frould more than everd.f
like ir — bn: I r;n of Opinion, that peace
can never be infu.ed by meanness and ftib
million." £f/rg. Chron.~\
If ValentiS'ahes, Lift#, nrd every forti
fied town i;i France were nmv in polfeffion
of the combined dt-fpots, yet,fays a corref
povtdent, if the coaftitution'is accepted,
thole places-cannot, in the nature of thing?,
prove otherwise than po'mpous Opn'chi es
td decaying tyranny-'-Rt fi.-tt oil th'e Ame
rican war; Boflou, Newport, New-York,
New-Jersey, Philadelphia, the Carolines
and Virginia, a'tefnattly and almolt col
lectively in the enemies hands ; torie3 •and
irrif, feants of every defci 'p ion, courting
their approach, ami watching an opportu
nity to flab their country ; our currency
depreciated to a penny for a dollar, and
this at the very period when a Britifti army
fiufhed with conqtieO, injbe north, was
il.'ftlned to be Cornwailit'il, to open a way
for Burgoyning a second in the south ; a
ciitiimftanceimknoWn before in the annals
of man, to take place in one wafr. Union
enabled our infant republic to defy the ty
ranny of Britain, and will enable France
to defeat the machinations bf the combina
tions of superstition, degenerate nobility,
•.'ml monarchy.
Extract of a letter from Jamaica, dated
Kingston, All?. 2>. 1793.,
" It is now twenty days since ! was ta
ken and brotight in here : the owners of
the "privateer, have libelled the velfel and
cargo, upon the weak presumption, that
th » can prove me to be a French fubjeft,
mirely because I Have been for three or
four months i:i Jeretnie, difpo.'ing of the
property you conligned To me, and which
could riot be eifefted time enough to fend
the proceeds in the veflel till her return to
Jeremie agaiu. This is a very lame pre
tence : for, if their arbitrary laws flioild
make me (who was born and always lived
in America,) a French fubjedt, as they
term it, how can it affect your property ?
I have employed an attorney, an 1 one of
the heft counsel, who are *ery confident
• they will be obliged to pay for the freight
of all the French property they can prove
on board, and also for all the fxpences at-'
teiiding the veflel while in port ; —but all
they will De obliged to do, will not nearly
co;*• penfate for the heavy fees lam obli
g d to pay tothe lawyers, and for the de
itcurtiou, by the worms, tothe bottom, and
the privatecrfmen, to the fails and rigging
ot the veflel. It will be three weeks be
fore :he trinl will comc on, arid how long
I (hall be detained afterwards is quits un
certain. This is particularly unfortunate
for me, as my business in America, mud
ftfter ill coiifeqnence of this detention. I
have heard, that hardl/a velfel efenpesthat
is'bound from Hifpaiiiola to America ; so
that I tear tliac node of the (hipmeiHs ]
to yon, have got to hand, which
litv.u disappoint you much. 'At this place,
it is very little better than at New-Provi
~<lence, which I dare fay you have heard
enough of. Here,"if they do not condcnin
a Vi il'el for having French property on
board, they turn out the captain, mare, and
all the ham's (except those who join theitr)
then plunder the velfel of every thing the}
can find : Tile prize masters and fillers on
board, neglefl the hull, fails and rigging,
and in eight weeks, the worms will com
pletely ruin the bottom. An American
captain left this port the day before ye(*er
day, who had been detained nine weeks :
The privateerfmen emptied his calks of
ceffee, to find (as they fattl) French papers,
money, &c. and in the search they Wafted
abont 4000 weight of CI {fee : Not finding
any thing to jtiftify their suspicion, the)
jjracionfiy gave him leave to depart, which
li? agreed to do, wthout" bringing suit for
r the detention and inftrlt, which they allu
red him if he attempted, would be attend-
Ed with marc expense than.bis vi-ffel and
would come to. besides the defuti
on. Not hiving a friend here to prosecute
the nr-rter, he was obliged to put up with
tile loss and insult, asd was happy ti get
away 01 any terms. Such glaring intuits
[ cannot think, my fellow citizens v\ iI put
up with, though I lhould be furry to'hear
they were at war, and "hope t here will he
f.itisfaclion obtained in Pome other way.
The captahis bf privateers here, have di
rections to lend in all American.'; wh > are
bound to a French port with provi'*ons.
They w ill hive liberty to fell here at the
prices the inhabitants chtife to give ; hut it
they persevere in going on. and are after
ware's t:iken, the "t-flrl and cargo will be
condemned as'a lawful prize."
The French papers received down to
ihe tweity lixth of Atigufl, make no men
tion of the pretended embargo laid in all
the ports'of France on veflels of the Unit
ed States ; they speak only of a decree puf
fed in the b"ginni:-g of August, which pro
hibits the exportation of ol jects of the firti
tvedelfity, This decree mult neceff'rily
have retarded the departure of American
vefiels, becatife in thole objeits are com
prrilVd, helid-rs lienors and provisions, so 'p,
hemp, leather, irt.n, copper, cloths, lin
ens, and other articles jn which coi filljithe
, eturns of Americans. The agents ot the U.
Statesimmediately sent from diffet tut ports
of France deputations to Paris, and there
is no dniibt but our- nation will obtain in
this circurr]Jtance the fame exemption
which has been pronofinc»d in her fevor in
all -the decrees occalioned by the fjitem oi
neutrality adopted forthe dtfirent powers..
This decree,whole difpi'fitions are of a
U 'tlire truly exiraord nai v. when vecuiu
lider the in) me nut product of the French
rcamifaftures was, as well a*that
aroumnces the extinction of the seven
hundred millions of aflignats, the natural
result of the discovery which was made
if the plots which the government of St.
/ames' was forming in the bosom of the
Republic. It appeared by several of the
feiied papers, that the immense funis of
n.mey which the infamous Pitt extorted
}y his loans from his blind nation was em
ployed in forelValling all the above irenti
sned articles, and all those which by their
carcity, might occaiion infurreftiops a
:"no:'g ib.' people. These horrid words
#ere found in a letter, " Raise to the high
fit price poflible by means of forefialling
;very article mod neceflary to the com
sion people: in.three weeksfoap mutf colt
a hundred Cms a pound, and other commo-
Jities in proportien."
St. D >mitgo, Ju'y 17. "Itis a grcfi
?'ror to believe in the maintenance of 11a
• fry, in St. Domingo. Let the proprietor#
undeceive themselves ; already it exiil
no more, and if they confnlt their interests
'for tiiey do not know any other motive.)
;very master will be eager to prevent
aimes ; crimes ca.i they really be ? Can
:he annihilation of a cruel, vicious, arilto
:ratic people, enemies to the French Re
Jublic, be a crime? No! N> ! of what
conference is t ro the mo.her country
that there fhou'd exilt great planters, great
merchants, or men pofleffing millions.
Those biocd-fuckers of tl.e people who
have never done any thing for the Repub
lic, who know nothing but •. old, and pol
lute the land of liberty. Su<h men ought
already to have manured with their, infec
tious bodies the ground which has been ex
hausted for them, and upon which thev
(till breathe."
Pittsburg, Cel. 19. Late accounts from
Fort Wafhisgton mention, that the Army
imder gefitral Wayne, had received poii
tive orders te march on the 24th of Sep
tember last.
Trenton, o£t. 23. Teitcrday a fubferip
t'on was set on foot by the inhabitants of
this city, for tie purpose of contribut ng to
the relief o£ tiledifireJeH inhabitants of
Philadelphia ; and we are h ppy in commu
nicating thatafpirit of liberality is general
y c ) ll,)icu'Jiis 01 the fubl'cnjitioii paper.
By a gentleman lately fro in Jolinltown,
in the State of New York, we are informed
:hat a report is there circulated & general
ly believed, that the warriors of the fix
nations had been supplied at the Britifli
posts, with the bed ri'fle»p«wder, arms and
provilions, under colour of trade; and
that their declared intention was to ren
dezvous at the Miami towns antl co-ope
rate with the'>r hoflile brethren. By this
time, it is probable that the collective cru
elty of the savage l*ards has been poured
upon 0 lr too defencelefs frontiers, whose
only hope, tinder Providence, now rests
011 the, bravery and enterprise of the
gallant Wayne and Scott, and their brave,
though not numerous armies May the
God 01 battled cover them with the broad
llueld or his Providence and cr«wn tbeui
with success •'
Yelterdajr the Legislature of tl.is State
convened in this city.
COPY of a lerter from William Moultrie,
Governor of South Carolina, to Citizei:
Genet, Minilter Plenipotentiary from the
French Republic to the United States oi
America.
Charleston, Sept. 5, 1793.
Dear Sir,
THROUG H the medium of thenortherr
newspapers, .we, in this (tace have been in
formed, th.-.t a tl'ifpiife lr:.d taksr. place be
tvjeen the President cf the United date
aiiil ywurfelf, on fame poi: c relating to;
pAz?; and upon your differing thereon
you (aid with a decree of warmth, that yot
would appeal to the proiU.— Viewing it a
here repreferited, many real friends to th<
Republic of Frame have taken great of
fence, as it conveys infiilt to achar;fter
highly refpefted by his country, independ
ent of the station which he fills : fron
hence much converfatioH and warm alter
cation ariies/
My regard for yon peifonr.lly, as welj a;
being the repreferitjuive of a nation I real
ly clteeni, induces me to rrtftfeO from you
an exact relation of what did happen in
your dispute, if any you have had; ami
that y«H wou'd, in favouring me in my re
qued, mention ihe time, the place, and the
manner ; because opinions lead people
more often adray for want of the know
ledge of particular?. For my part, be as
sured iny regard for yell leads me to sup
pose, that your good sense could not per
mit you to behave with the lead iapropri
ety'to tlie President.
I have the honor to be, dear fr, with
great regard, your mull obedient
humble servant,
WILLIAM MOULTRIE.
• Citizen GENET's Avjruer.
Ni'.V-Tork, Oft. i j, 1793-
the ;d year of the French Republic,
Dear Sir,
I SHOULD long (in.ee have exposed the
authors of the f;tlfelu>ods,w hich-a dark and
deep intrigue has laid to my charge, if I
could have ct.ndefcendcd to pat myfelt on
alevtl with those men. whom I toomuch
('efpTe to produce proofs agaiaft the sbftfir
dity of their act uations.' hut it is rot thus
th t the representative of a great people,
should condi ft himfelf—it isnot fufficieni
he exposes thole .who traduce him, hi
Ought to demand their pnnilhment ard ft
obtain it, if the reprelentative of the sove
reignty w here he refide3 doe; jnftice.
1c is to Congress rhut I Uiall addrel's my.
felf, through the medium of the execntivt
ot the United States, to aik the fevered
examination of all my oSicial measures.
and of every particular Hep which may bt
fnppofed to have been an attempt upon the
eft a b!i filed authority of the American Re
public ; I shall conceal nothing, lir, irom
this august body : I shall place under the
infpeftion of every member my inftrufti
ons, my correspondence and my conferen
ces with the federal government, my cor
respondence with the French government :
my indructlons to the consuls of the Re
public, and my correspondence with them:
Snd, I hope that the result of the examin
ation of thtfe documents, and the analyse
ot the pretended threat imputed to me, ol
appealing to the people, will be a thorough
conviction, that if 1 have fpeken to youi
government, with the energy of a freeman,
with the eiithuliafm vliich at th'« day in
spires and animates every Frenchman re. 1-
ly attached to his country : if I have com
plained officially, and in no ether way oi
the condnft of certain offirert of the tcde
ral government, whose intentions appear
ed to me both deltruftive of liberty, am
favourable to our enemies: if I have de
clared that their tamenel's, that their small
mealures in the common' danger which
menaces tree nations, did not appear to me
t<' be confident with the sent ments of their
fellow citizens, with the true intereds of
their i ountry : if I have exprefl'ed without
disguise, my grief at feeing General Wafli
ington, that celebrated hero of liberty, ac
cefli'ole to men whose schemes cetild only
darken his glory; if by this boldness, 1
have made niyfelf the mark for all the re-
Pentmeiit their utmost perfidy can occasion,
I have never forgotten, what I or e to the
("upreme head of the executive of a great
people, who were the firft to open the ca
reer to freedom, the firft to proclaim the
Rights ot Men, ard whose exiftencc is a;
dear to us, ai ouriis neceff'ary to theai.
I am as jealous of the edeem of the A
mericans as that of any of my fellow <iti
zens, and whatever efforts may be msde to
deprive me ot it, I flatter myfelfwith con
fidence, that I shall wholly preserve it. 1
believe that I shall be always deemed wor
thy in their eyes, of the traternal recep
tion they gave me from Charleston to New-
York ; and I make no doubt, finally, thst
the brave Gen. Moultrie, will never regret
to have been the firft to acknowledge in
me, the e;»voy of the French Republic, and
to have heaped on me those kindnefl'es and
obliging attentions j the recollection of
which will benever tffaced from my me
niory.
GENET.
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
President of the United States
of America.
To nil vjb.im it may concern.
■pHE Sieur Antoine CharboaetDuplaine,
■ heretofore having produced to in? his
commifliou as V'ce Confulfor thrJEUpublic
of France, within the dates of New-Hamp
lhire,MalT:ichiUetts, and Rhode-Iflard.and
having thereon received from me an exs
qiiatur, bearing date the fifth day of June,
1 793, recognising him as fuch.sud declaring
hijn free to exercise and enjoyfut h ftinfti-
ons, powers, and privilege!, m are ailswed
to Vice C( nfnlfr-of the French RopuLHc ly
the laws, treaties, arid conventions in th z
cat's mad? and provide <1; an) the fa d
Sieur Dnplaire hav ing under colour oi his
Paid office, committed fufdry encroach
ments art! infractions on the laws of the
ard, ard particularly hiving raufed a vtf
fel to be rescued with an armed lerce out
of the cultody of an officcr of juftii e, who
had arrefled the ftrt:c by p oiefs from his
court, and it being therefore no longer sic
nor confident, will) the relpeft and obedi
ence due to the law», that the Sieur Du
plaine (liould be permitted to continue in
the eitercife and enjoyment of the said
fn'nfriors", pritileges and powers, these sre
therefore to declare that I do no longer
recognize the said Antoine Charfeonet Dn
plaine as Vice-Couful of the Republic of
France in any part of these United State',
nor permit him to exercise or enjoy ary
of the function?, powers < r prljilegeS al
lowed to the Vice- Conf'uTs of that nation,
arid that I dohereby wholly revoke and anni 1
the said exequatur heretofore given, ami do
declare the fame to be absolutely null and
void, from this day forward.
In tc It'many whereof 1 have crnfrdthefe
, letters to he made patent, and tie
fesl of the United States of America to
be hereunto affixed.
Given under my hand this tenth day
of October, in the year.of ot r Lerd
1793. ai d of the Independence oc'
the United States of America the
eighteenth.
G°: WASHINGTON.
Ey the President.
Th : jEFrERSf-'N.
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
President of the United States
of America.
To nil tuhovi it troy concern.
THE Citizen Donrnery having proi'rced
to rne his commiflion as Confnlfop the
Republic of France at Bolton, I do hereby
recognize him as fuili, and do declare him
free to cxrrcife and enjoy fiuh fnnftion*,
powers, and privileges, as are allowed to
Cqnfuls of tnd French Republic by th*
laws, treaties and conventions, in that Cifs
made and provided.
In tefHmony whereof I h»ve catifed these
letters to be made parent, and the
seal of the United States to be here
ui to aflixrd.
Given under my hand the tenth day
ot October, in the year of our
Lord one thoufaml (even hun
dred ard ninety three, and the
Independence of the United State*
of America the eighteenth.
g*: Washington.
Ey the Prelidenr.
(Seal.) Th : Jeffer-gn.
*»* The fevrral Printers in this city are
reijuefted to infect the above two official
papers, in their refpeftive Gazettes.
Artcdnt!. An Irifli (Indent Was once a£k
ed what was meant by pnJUmmnns io< rki ?
They are fuili works (said Paddy) as
a man writes after he is dead."—
(Artothcr ) The famous mom'tefcanfc
Doctor Richard Reck, was once larangu
ing a crowd of people very i»3rnrd!y from
his travelling pulpit.—On a sudden, he ch
arred great part of his audience dropping
off, and earnestly attending to fomeihikg
that a lhabby fellow at a distance was tell
ing them. Reck immediately enquired
what communications the nan had to
make, that could so carneflly nttrn£t the
attention < f such a number of people
" Doctor, (said one of the audience) he is
telling the people as hew you u ere once a
porter as we'l as himleli! '* —Very tru®
(fa'd Reck) bnt then yen wiil pb afe to
take notice that he remains a porter iVlll.',
*»* With the prefer.t Number (icß)
Concludes the ftcond volume, and second
year's publication of the Nnl/nrgl Gczettt.
Having jult imported, on his own account,
a confiderablc quantity of new and elegant
printing types fiom Europe, it is the Edi
tor's intent on to relume the publication
of this paper in a Ihs rt time, ami previonf
ly to the meeting of Congref« on the se
cond day c f iDecembernext — Inthe mean
lime he earnedly solicits all perforis in ar
rears lor this Gazette (the greater part of
which is of two year-' amctirt) to remit,
without delay, the ft!ms due, 'by port or
otheru lie ; (brewing to Mefir*. Childs
add SWAINE, New-York ; -or ro Pmi.i>
Frenf.au, Philadelphia.
tZt* Printers of nrwfppers may omit
fending their Gazettes in exchange,till fur
ther notified.
Mi 1 M(JRuLOGICs.L (Jb- i. it ,
Octcpfr 179**.
D. m Ban*,. ll'nJ. Meatier
Tuesday, J-. - 29.7; 56 3.W. [Fair.
I ' 1 ">]. Rain. **
W cdntjaay, 16. 7 30. t 47 n.n.w Kur.
'' "■ c 53 N. He.
■lbur)d»f, 17. 7 3 u. , 37 tTTIT 7a17.
3 3''. ; 60 •' o.
eriaay, jS. 7I 30. i 41 Un. W. t„- r .
1 - G ' 1 ; dO. rfo.
Hattrday, 19. 71 30. 'cj rTj ~ Oc*<
2' iij 66 | do. Fair.
Sunday, at. 7j 30. Ci 44" jN. VV. % 'e;r. 7
-i to. o| cA ) | /j.
Monday, 21. 7, 30. ij 49 I N. I\ia\r.
i 3®* s l 59 |N.W. 1 it.