By P. FP.EN EA U : fat No. 209, Market Street) Pubiijhcd Wednesdays and Saturdays, [Three Dollars ptr annum.~\
cf /01. !!.] SATURDAY, Oft:>beri2, 1793.
From thi K nt TJCfcv G Azettf..
tif September 7.
To CHRISTO?iI-.l GRUEN'JP, E"q.*
■>' 1 J '<
■yC''- aave. through the niediuoi of Mr.
paper, been reqjeded to
nifis»iT t-> your conllituents the reafjii;. by
which yon were actuated It) an important
pate of vour public euiiduct at the iuit t-S
lion ot Congi'tffs. V 1 hi have to do
id, by your fileuc-.*, Inye convinced
every thinking man, that your vote 111 fa
vor of the fecr.tary of the treasury cannot
be juftified. You will not deny that th;
public have done you the ftrichii. the moll
impartial jultice. They have .aliened yon
to arrelt t!;. j ir judgments by making your
defence- and inn confident they would
have cuiiiidercd \i:li attention, 3; weigh
ed with candor eve.-y argument c. !.ich you
could have produced in your owm vindi
cation. But yoa have been liieiit; nnd
v. lien we reflect on year well, known foii
citude to ojtain the favor ol i-he people, \\e
may very fairly impute your li!e:ice to i
cocfcioufnefc of the i npropriety of your
conduct. But, to re.aove e very doubt or
the fubjeft, it will only be neceifai'.y -.o en
quire into' the'facls which were proved ot
sjdinitred on the inveftigiition of Mr. Giles
refoltitious. As the publications arts leng
thy, and as some of my fellow citizens may
aoc have had time or patience to jve them
an attemjve perusal, i lliall endeavor, a
briefly as poffi'ole, to give a cletail ot the
leading fait 3 which appeared in the courfc
oi the enquiry.
It appeared.
That by a law of the 4th of Augiift 1790,
the Preiiilent was authorized to borrow
12,000,000 of dollars to be applied 1 to tilt
payment of the foreign debt of the United
States.
That by another law palled the 12th ol
Augult 1790, the Prelideut was anthorizec
to bo. ,'ow 2,000,000 of to be appli
ed towards linking tilt; CO;n£ftie debt ol
the United States.
Tiiat the Prelident, on the 23th ot Ali
gn it 1790, authorized the secretary of tin
treufury to borrow the money; and pofi
tively inllru£ted him, "immediately to ap
ply it in the manner directed by the -bovt
mentioned acts."
That the secretary of the treafiuy, '11
ftcad of applying the money borrowed un
der the firtt act to the difeharge of the fo
reign debt of the United States, drew ;
part of it over to America, and devoted il
to the life of the bank.
That the money borrowed under the f«-
eond act,inltead of being applied to the dis
charge of the domestic debt of the U.States,
wasalfo drawn over & lodged in the bank,
contrary to the directions of the a£t and
the express in(ti u£tions of the President.
That fmce the time of making tliefe loans,
the United States have been fubjeited to
the payment of interelt 011 the foreign and
domestic debt, and alio interelt on the
money borrowed of Holland ; wh'n t the
bank has liad the use of 3,000,000 of dol
lars of the money borrowed of Holland,
without paying any interelt to the United
States.
That whi'lt the Aim of 3,000,000 of dol
lar:, the property of the United States was
loc'g d in the bank, the secretary of the
treasury. on behalf of the United States,
borrowed of the bank 400,000 dollars on
interelt of fiv-7 par cent.
That untill the 'alt feflion of Congress.
the secretary gave no oflicial informatior
of his coijdiltt; and when called on foi
information wrote an infolting, abusive
letter, -calling in question the motives ol
those virtuous members who thought an
enquiry necefiary.
These are some of the principal facts
which appeared in the examination of the
subject : and I fnbmit it to you whethei
they were r.ot all completely eftablilliet
either by the secretary's own reports, 01
by authentic document:. The resolution
brought before Congref", grew out o
these facts, and perfeUiy correfpone
with them. And yet lir, altho' you cannoi
—you dare not deny the facts, you hav<
negatived the resolutions. \ 011 knew
that ail admiflion of the fa£ts was an admif
fun of his guilt, and therefore thought il
prudent to acquit your champion by boldl)
bidding deiiarlce to the truth. Youfuc
ceeded. Your name —the name of a Ken
tuck , Reprejentative is enrolled with the
names of tiiat speculating majority
lo whoui we are indebted for a lund
* One of the Representatives in Congress
ftom Kentucky.
ing fyfrem. a bank, an excise law,
and an iueffe£fual war protracted by ex
?eniive and unavailing treaties. But
the triumph of the firty to which you be
long, will f„on have an end. The people ai e
well aware that you are their Jervant and
not their rider. From your conduct
will learn an important bfibu. They will
learn to diltinguilh the (-tinging, fawning
i our: lei from tb< r eal friei'd of the peo
ple. Allho* jrou ruy refut|*W" l>y a llate
meit of your public conduct before tliem,
yet t'.icy will examine it and j fbr
t hern fie Ives. Should they find you guilty of
political mifconduft, they will place you
in a liturttion, where y.iu cannot injure
them, or disgrace youyfelf. Nor will
those sham apologies which Jou whisper
your condiments, and which you
vary as you think will belt promote your
imereft, avail you. To l'oitie you coiifei'
the fecretary'sguilt, but inlilt that he could
only be tried by impeachment. To others,
you allert that he-was innocent, but that
the vouchers of his innocence were confi
dential. Will you publicly defend you. -
felf on tfither of thofs grounds? Ifanim
peachmeiit was the only way in which this
di!fingul(hed offender cot'id be tried, why
did you not bring forward a resolution
Itat-iug that this Was the cafe ? Or why. iii,l
Hut you iiHUtute an impeachment j Or
why did you vote Kgainlt the refblutiun.
which only ft.-ifeil the facts? And can yon
vifutnre to allert that the 3 v nces of a free
country are managed in Confidence ! Shall
those Hieu who ire efltrulted with the
public monies difitpate then; at ple'afiire,
and when called upon to account for Ihem
be permitted to f. y that their defence is
confidential ? Forlhame fir, rather be en
tirely silent than offer iiich frivolous excus
es for your conduct. An injury is more
readily forgiven than an inftilt. Your vote
has injured us—your defence is a:i infuil
Upon our understandings.—
A REPUBLICAN.
LEXINGTON, [Kentucky) AUgufi 31.
At a meeting of the Democratic Society,ai
the Itate-houfe in Lexington, on Wcd
nefday the 28th of August, 1793.
THE Society proceeded to the eleflion
nt officers, when a majority of votes were
found in favor of
John Bracker.r'dge, Chairman.
Jnhn Bradford ar*l ? vice . ChairnieD ,
Robert Tod-i, 5
Thomas Todd and r] ,
Thomas Boiley, 5
Alexander M Gregor, Treasurer.
Alex. Hurray, James Hughes, Jama
Brow>i, James Moore, and Robert Todd, a
Committee of Correspondence.
Ordered, That the corresponding com
mittee beclirecled to write a circular letter
to the citizens of I Imitate, explanatory oi
:he principles and übj.-Hs of this Society.
Extract from the Minutes,
... ~ 'Thomas Todd, ?,■ , c
Thomas Boi.ley, 5
(CIRCULAR.)
T<> the Citizens of Kentucky.
Fellow Citizen/,
THE Democratic Society of Kentucky.are
now organized, and have commitec) to us
[he charge of developing to yon their prin
ciples and objects.
They are imprefled with t!ie fennment,
that a Democracy by reorefentation is the
Irelf mode of government, which the wif
vlom of mail hath devised, and that all just
power can be derived only from the peo
ple ; of consequence tine people have the
exchilive right ot'framing anil alteringtheir
forms of government. Tlint in order to
prefervethe incttimable blefllngs of liberty,
from the open attacks of avowed tyrants,
or the more insidious, tho' much more de
[truitive machinations of ambitious and
intriguing men, it behoves the people to
watch oyer the conduct of their officers,
in every department of government.
Experience has shewn, that, the hope ol
impunity,' has tended to the encourage
ment of crimes, in public, even more than
in private life. The man, whom virtue
may not restrain from the breach of an im
portant trult, may be awed by the vigilant
and piercing eye <if his fellow citizens
This however would be insufficient to pre
serve, pure and uncontaminated, the belt
of all poflible governments. We ought to
be extremely cautious in the choice of men,
who are to rtprefent us in the exercifc of
the powers of government. Their public
characlers ought to be examined with
itri£tn«fs and attention, free from party or
religious prrjudii.es, ar.d uiii-ffeited by their
occupation, fortune,or connections. The
attempt to influence the vote of a freeman
either by the wify arts of promifird favor
or by base calumniation, ought to bt
fptir.ied at with contempt and abhorrence.
Thele are, iii the c.bltraft, the principle?
of the society. Their objects are to diffe
minato those principles, and to conciliate
affeftioimcc fenjirrients towards each other
anvng their democratic fellow citizens.
That thcic. objeits may be effefled, they
propose nut oniy to discuss the proceedings
of governnieftt. but to examine into the
conduit of its officers in every department.
They will dtfcufs arid examine with can
dor. but with the firmnelsand freedom be
cominj citizens, zealous for the liberties
of their country.
Tho blotted nage of liifiory has record
ed the fatl effects which the neglect of
li n.l.ir pi\ cautions has occasioned. Hat!
'.:u citizens of Athens been attentive :o the
conduct of their public men, the pitiful
rr;::ai;ein of Pifiiiratus would not have
inoofed upOil hi* country an odioustyran
ip. To recite every fruiiar event with
(iniilar confeijuences, wotrid extend our
latter b?)ii)n«J»ths.b"iinds which we pro-
I'.fc. T' o numerous, indeed, are the in
it .ices, \v -y:h, in former times, a like in
attention iiefents for our inftruftion.—
'.'/hat wc e then caf cd Revolutions, were
'tily a chailge of tyrants ; or if a moment
of freedom nncp-vcii ed, it was, as the
. i anlient beams of the'* fun, between two
iioiin:;. To the prefect age has it been
referyed to witness renovating Revolu
:iiuls. In America we fought not shelter
."out the oppreflion of one tyrant, under
.iia talon - ol another. The Rights of Man,
rhe principles of a government formed to
jrote?t'iiofc right;-, and ensure to our fel
on - Cit riitu, anil Our latest posterity,, the
j'ellings. c-t'freedom and equality, were the
ibjccts' o our political deliberations.—
Kiance li i since caught the gloriousfi one!
Long h;:<s;thepe»pie been deprived i f the
by their beneficent Crea
or. At length tlfev ba\ e arifw m their
itrength, and like an hrjiidaiiorr, have, at
jiicc, swept away tlieir Tyrants and their
Gothic structures. May success and free-
Jom reward their merits !
Fellow Citizens, we invite you to form
meetings in your several counties, to join
md to coirefpond with the Democratic
Society of Kentucky. To this Ibciety. the
nembers of meetings in any county of this
state, foi med Oil limilar principles, will
liave ad million. They d. dure the Soc.ety
:o extenfi.t with the (late.
These principles and regulations we have
aeen directed to announce to you: we
J'nibt not that impriflVd with the jiiflice
ind importance of those principles, you
will gite them your fnpport.
Thus will yOO preserve the bleflings of
reedom, and merit the gratitude ofpofte
•itv.
William Mnrray, James Huphes. J:mes
BroUrn, James Moore. Robert Todd, com
mittee of Ct rrefpondeuce tor the Kcutuc
<y Democratic Society.
For the National Gazette.
Mr. Freneau,
r AM truly sorry that a publication 6f
mine, in your paper, (houid givefo nnii h
jffencc to a gentleman I always lov'd
and elteem'd, and whom 1 ha?e often
leard with much fatisfaftion, and I hope
with fonie degree of improvement ; tfpe
ially as he vas ny no means intended or
hinted at ; I knew before Mr. M. or he
wrote, of the time Mr. Smith left the city,
the appointments —the good and fufficient
reasons he had for so doing, and ot his re
turn —before that M. S. was carried to the
prefs.—ln that publication I exprefo'd the
sentiments cf ali I converted with on the
fubjeit, (some of them \\ ifer, and I hope
bet-tcr than myfeif.)
But I mtdt beg leave to set Mr. Smitl:
right, or to advise him better, refpeitins
myfelf—Firft then, I am no Rmegadt
Prcfbytcrran—l join the Pi efbytei ians ir
religious Worship in linceri'ty, I hope, and
with as much heart u ill as evet
I did, or am enabled to do ; and I can ap
perl to the omnifcieni searcher of hearts ;
he knows that malevolence was far froit
my heart ; strange ii deed i Could the Rev.
Mr. Smith in theabundanceof liiscliriftinr
charity find, or suppose no other motive
than malevcience —He certainly tail for
get that " faithful are the wounds of n
friend"-"-! tfperfed no mat:, X gave jtift
praise where I thought it war—and !ti:'
■ hink it is due, & here I did not include
Mr. Smith, at 1 had with much pleasure
[Total Numb. 204.]
heard of his fafe return; and whether I
am fool, knave, ignorant declaimer, or
malicious pat tizar, —or the rtverje ot' all
these abusive epithets, is belt known to my
own mailer, and I would fain hope Mr.
Snvth's inafter is mine also—-I doubt noc
that he is the betterfervant; (he had much
need) that lie is, or may be much more
profitable, I reft allured :—Bht, O what a
blefling is it, that we are to be judged by
one y. ho knows the whole heart and every
motive there ; and with me, it is a small
matter, to bcjtidged of man's judgment ••
Mr. Smith may call me dog or devil, if he
will, but I hope I ihall be enabled to for
give him, and to fay (what I in truth think)
that he is a worthy and ufeful minister of
the gofpcl of Jesus Chrill ; and I thir.k I
ain obliged even to himfelf, for putting me
in mind to "bless them that curse me."
As to ihe do&rine of predestination, I for
merly said I was not against it in a reafon
■ible lenfe ; but iince I came to adult years,
two points I cannot approve, firft, eternal
reprobat.on, becatlfe it ic represents the all
glorious, holy, ju'.V, and only good Being—
in a ligtt unworthy ol the God I was
to adore and love ; the second is,
(what some advance) t4 that all our voliti
ons and a£lions, good and t'jil arepredefti
nated—a coutroveriy might require a vo
lume—but I ihall only beg leave to menti
on two anecdotes—A man in prison, under
Sentence ol death, lor murdering his neigh
bour, was vihted by a filend, who blamed
him exceedingly lor his very wicked ani
ons; his anfutr was, 11 It certainly uat
'predeftinatcvl, for I bad many llruggles in
my mind befori- I committed it, but, hap
ptni.ig to meet hiui suddenly, and in a pri
vate place, I felt myfelf impeiled to kill
him."
An elderly lady (a predeflinariatl in the
■ iinioll latitude) said to her servant, " I
believe, Katrie, you are with child.''—
" Well (lays Kattiejif it ii so, it mull have
been predelllnatedj and how could / help
PrefJeECe and piedsflination in man
kind muil be very limited ; and we know
I -mething o! both io.otiffelves ; —but what
ih,Jc are in an eternal, infinite and incom
pre|- s er,hb!e Beings is a •' knowledge too
nigh for me."
liut I will have ro contest or controver
sy with the Rev'd Mr. J. B. Smith, on these
or any other fubjefta ; — and here I cer
tainly drop it—Remaining, with my bell
wilhes for the continuance of his ufelulnefi
in his fphtre and ofiice, his and your friend
and fellow citizen.
PHTLANTHROPO3.
P. S. I did riot fee Mr. Smith's publica
tion until til's day, a little before dinner,
or would Save forwarded this to the prcfi
f-'enei": I am as raid It will be too late for
tomorrow s paper, if so, please to insert ic
in Saturday's and obi'ge Yours, Sec.
t\ riting the above i.i much haste, j for
got to delire Mr. Smith to review my fiill,'
where tie will doubtlcfs perceive that my
zeal was not that of Jelni ; it was rot
about lorms of v\ orlhip—or pulling down
idols (uniel's the extra points ot contro
verted opinions may be called Idols) but a
zeal, more or less, for the welfare of ma
ny of my fellow-citizens in a time of great
diltrefr ; or too great a delire to ihew my
zeal, but this fiippi litioli was debarred by
my choofingan anonymous fignauire.
Upon alking a gentleman<jf great learnirg
and much candoK " what doctrine was
orthtkliix; and what heterodox ?" he an
fwercd— " Every man who thinks jutt as I
do, on ail controverted opinions, is ortho
dox, and vice versa."
Excuse this trouble, as I am pretty sure
il will be the lalt I Ihall give you 011 this
ftrbjeft. Oft. 8. P.
' ■ -t
FOREIGN NEWS.
ANtsTfeRDAM, *4ugnfl 8. Letters from
Mentz paint the defj erate limation of that
e ity and its envircils ; near go,oco bombs
were thrown into the city during the siege.
The fined fruit trees, to the number of
20.CC0, have been converted into palifa
does, at Caflel. The pleasant village of
Collheimisa heap of ruins, and the fire
vintjai ds of H ockhe.iii are now a defart.
The French general despairing of the
fifltty of theif new republic, have aban
doned Ccefir caii'p, and that of La Mande-
Uir.e, both of which were fortified by na
ture and art. Alter having reinforced
the garr fonj of L:fle and Douay, they
have taken a new polition behind Cambray.
8-y this retrograde movement, all the forts
which form i chain along the frontier usFrance, being no longer protefled, are cx
pofed to any. attack, the allies may chufe
to make upon them.
Dnmourier, is (aid to have purchased an
estate near Brufiels; others fay he lias
gone to France, to propose an union of
tfie different parties. If the former was
true, he no longer hopes to fee the Low
Countries invaded. II" the Litter, iuftrad
of uniting the French, he may himfelf be
united with the guillotine.
The name of the commander of the
French fleet is Legal. He is an officer of
tried courage, and great experience in his
prufciiiun. This will readily be admitted,
when it is known that he was Suftrein's
eaptain during the late war in the East-In
dies, when that officer so gallantly fought
the British fleet under the command of Sir
Edward Hughes. ..
The National Commissioners at Corsica
have returned to France. The island has
renounced all future connexion with the
•Republic.
A letter from Hague, dated Aug. 2, fays
according to the last letters from the
camp of the king of Prussia, all the French
troops had left Mentz on the 26th ult. the
king had quitted his head quarters atßo
denheim, and established them at Kirche
im -Poland, from which it was concluded
that further operations were forthwith
to be commenced. On examination there
had been found at Mentz 220 French and
iBo German pieces of cannon and mortars,
300,0001b. of good gunpowder, and corn
and wine in abundance, and that it was
supposed the discord among-ke garrison
had caused the farrender of Mentz.
By a letter from Tournay, dated the 2d
in(l. there is intelligence that the r-ommif
{ioners of theconventioa at L'lle left that
city 011 their way to Paris, after giving
orders to move off part of the heavy artil
lery and of the garrison towards Paris;
and they are further (tripping the maga
zines of that place. This information has
given rife to a report that Lisle had offered
to furrendt-r.
A letter from Constantinople.dated June
18. favs "All the attempts of the French
y-irty have failed. M. Deforchcs only re
iiJes here as a merchant. On his firtt ar
rival, the Porte forbade any of the inter
preters to visit, or receive any visits from
Jiim. In fine, the repeated defeats fuffer
ed by his nation in the course of the lalt 6
months have determined the Divan to fol
low the example of the other courts. It is
fuopofed that the arrival of the combined
fleets in the Mediterranean has not a little
.contributed to this refolutiou on the part
-of the Sultan."
By letters from Oftend, dated the6th
instant, there is advice that the ac€ounts of
the successes of the Royalifls are con
firmed, and that moreover the Republican
-army in La Vendee is dilbanding itfelf.
That of the North is following the exam
ple.
The people at Paris sccufed Cuftine of
feeing the occasion of the surrender of
Mentz, and loudly call for his head. The
tfon of that general is arreftcd.
The removal of the Queen of France
from the Temple to the Conciergerie.took
place at midnight ; an hour, at which the
flreets of Paris are now free from almost
all paflengers,.except the nightly patroles.
One of the mod ordinary carriages, kept
for hire, was used upon the occasion, and
her majesty was not permitted to take with
her any female attendant. Henriot, the
■commandant of the national guards, St.
Andre, a commifiioner of the Convention,
and one Mecon, whose office is not fpeci
fled, rode in the carriage with her, which
wasefcorted by 150 chalfeurs. Parties of
the national guards were polled at every
avenue, at each of which the carriage was
flopped, while Henriot himfelf gave the
parole.
On the 31ft ult. between three and four
•o'clock in the afternoon, general Culline
-was conduced from the Abbaye prifon,be
fore his judges, the revolutionary tribu
nal, to undergo the firft secret interrogato
ry. An imiuenfe crowd of people attend
ed the general to the place of juflice,
■whither he was escorted by a flrong divi
sion of Parisian light horse. As soon as he
made his appearance, the blood-thirsty
mob vociferated inceflantly "To the
guillotine 1 wretch !—To the guillotine 1
According to the accounts from Poland,
-we are aflured that a New Constitution
•will be erected upon the foundations of the
Constitution of the year 1775. The fol
lowing articles have transpired :
1. The King in future lhall not be elec
ted by the whole nation, but by a new
Diet, in which the number of the members
fliall be multiplied to three times as many
as in an ordinary Diet.
2. The Diet lhall assemble every four
year 3, instead of every twe years. The
king lhall in the interval govern the na
tion, with the assistance of the Permanent
Couiicil.
3. The present king (hall employ three
millionsout of the fix millions of Poiifh
florins, which compose his rerenues, in
paying off his personal debt*.
We are further informed, that the pre
sent government has found ways and means
to raise sixteen millions of florins, in order
to supply the wants of the bcw civil lift
which has been granied.
Generals Tutolmifl and prince George
Dolgorucki, are expefled in a flioi t time
from Peterlburg, to take the government
ps the new Polilh provinces wilder the do
mination of the Empress.
London, Aug. ij. It is worriiy of remark
that Llie Gazette account oi the capitula
tion of Metitz omits the signatures; no
names, and consequently no defci iptions of
parties fighting appear. Was this a paltry
artifice to conceal f'omething that looked
like an acknowledgment of the French
Republic by the king ©f Pruflia ?
The illuminations recommended by the
treasury papers, are no doubt meant to en
able us to fee the great advantages we gain
by taking towns in Flanders, for the empe
ror and king. An honeit citizen was allied,
why he illuminated on the joyful news of
the surrender of Valenciennes, to whom
he answered, I think.there never wa« more
occasion, for 1 am i'ure we are all in the
dark relative to the matter.
It is liippofed, on a moderate calculati
on, that illuminations in this country, in
conlequence of our victories ill America,
during the late war, did not toft less than
ioo,cool. ..
The experience of last campaign afford
ed a llrong presumption of the elfeft that
the taking of Valenciennes and Condr
will have upon the French. Till the lols
of Longwy Veiduii they seemed to (hew
a torpid indifference as to the events of
the war ; bat 110 sooner did those places
fall, than the whole nation rushed to arms.
The Marquis De la Fayette, made an
observation at the memorable period of
the American war, which applies molt
tiro ugly to the projected invasion offrance.
" The Englilh (laid he) are mad: They
march through a country, and they think
that by so doing; they may conquer it 1"
In the Netherlands the a.htd armies
have gained very great arid unexpected
(lores of ammunition by the caplure of
Valenciennes.
Lille has long been almost ftirrounded,
and it fecms reasonable to expert, that the
blockade will now be rendered complete,
as the general (Lamorliere) who has hi
therto commanded in that town, is carried
prisoner toParis, accused of having negleif
ed to provide the means of defence. But
among the principal operations of the re
mainder of the campaign, that which is
spoken of with the greatest probability, i»
the intended liege oi Dunkirk, by the Bri
tifli,Hanoverian and Hellian forces ; while
the Prince of Saxe Coboui'g, after taking
Maubeuge, Boucliaiu, and possibly Cam
bray, will be able effectually to cover the
beliegers from any attack in the field, and
to pursue the advantages ef the war as fait
as they may open. To dijplay the utility
or importance of this great project, would
lead us back into half the history of all our
wars with France since the Revolution ;
but its immediate benefit will be the fecti
rity of Oftend, during the winter, so ne
cessary to the debarkation of our forces,
provisions and ammunition.
The arrival of the Weft-India home
ward bound fleet, is ainongft the fortu
nate events of the war.
From the Mediterranean we have in
telligence, that the French National Corn
millioners are returned or expelled from
Corsica : but we know not yet under what
atifpices general Paoli willfet up his stan
dard : whether the independency of his
native island is to be once more asserted,
or whether the ueceflity of foreign suc
cours and protection, exaggerated benefits,
and ambitious alliances, will not prove
fatal to the visionary liberty of a country
which has neither internal resources nor
piiyfical means of felf defence, or the pow
er, perhaps, of dispensing with the dange
rous guaranty of some despotic benefaifor.
PITTSBURGH, Oaober 5.
By Mr. Achefon who arrived at Wash
ington on Friday tie 27th ult. from head
quarters in 18 days, we are informed, that
the army is said to be about 3000, in good
health, good spirits, and in a hijli slate of
discipline. Thehorfe about 300 —in good
plight, and cr.pable of any service. The
road to Fort Jefferton well made, and im
proved since the last campaign.—Sixty
thousand bushels of corn were raised in the
neighbourhood of Fort Jefferfon this sum
mer, by the garrison. Waggons had been
biilily employed in drawing out the stores,
until orders came to defilt, left ujfibrage
fliould be given to the Indians, and the
treaty fliould be disturbed. But 011 the
express arriving from the President of the
United States, announcing the result of the
treaty, and giving orders to prepare to car
ry on a campaign, the Kentucky volunteers
were called, and it was expected the army
would be ready to move in four days.—
General Wayne had appointed the Colonels
of the volunteers; the Colonels appointed
the Majors ; the Majors the Captains ; the
Captains the Subalterns ; and also chose
and nominated the soldiers whom they
wished to accompany them ; in which cafe
it was a point of honor not to refufe.
Piomingo, or the Mountain Leader, the
Chickafaw chief, was 011 his way with 20c
warriors, 15 had arrived at the camp ; 5c
were at Lexingtau, &c-
PHILADELPHIA.
Saturday, Otiober 12.
On Friday last the following gentlemen
were elefled by the citizens ot' the city of
Philadelphia,and the diftrifts of the North
ern Liberties, anil Southwark—THOMAS
MIFF LI K,Croveruor. —Jacob Hiltzheimer,
George Latimer, Jolm'Swanwick, Benja
min R. Morgan, Henry Kammerer, AV
prefpntatives in the Ajfembiy.—John Lea
cock, Jeremiah Fifiier, Coroners.—George
Forepaugh, County Commifiioiter.
A brig from Derry, and schooner from
Grenada, prizes to tlie privateer Sans Cu
lottes, are arrived at Baltimore.
On the 24th lilt, arrived at Providence
(R. I.) the {hip Hope, Capt. Benjamin
Page, in five Months and ten days from
Canton. — Capt. Page failed from Provi
dence, March 12, 1792, for the Falkland
I Hands, where he was detained three
months by the severity of the weather :
from thence he went to the islands of
Triitan d'Acnnha, Cape of Good-Hope,
and New-Holland : thence through the
Friendly Iflrinds, visited the Island of Yi
nian, and arrived at Canton the ljth oi
March follow ing; he departed from Cantot;
the isthof April,and touched at St. Helena
the 1 ft of Aug. where he met a French India
man, froui Pondidierry, taken by the Pow
erful, an English 74 gun fliip. — Capt. Page
on this coast fell in with the brig Dolphin,
Capt. Thomas Bolton, from Virginia,
bound to Cadiz, in a very leaky condition,
and oomlufted her sale ini» Newpoit.
The following letter, rfgned by fix gen
tlemen, inhabitants of Elkton, to a person
in this city, dated October 4, breathes too
high a fpii it of philanthropy to be omit
ted. Its republication may also tend to
foften the treatment of the neighbouring
tort us towards our fugitive inhabitants. —
" Dear Sir-,
" On hearing your latter by this
polt read, it deeply iniprelied us with the
alarming and dangerous situation of jcrnr
felf and a number of our Philadelphia
friends; we have therefore briefly to pro
pose, that yourfelf and family, with ftich
of our friends as you may choose to call
upon, with our proportion, may leave your
distressed city without delay—we would
not wish to confine you to numbers—from
20 to 60 could be accommodated among!!
lis —such fare as our village affords, would
be cheerfully disposed of to render your
rime agreeable. We consider business a
secondary object, when your own and fa
mily's health is at (take—we would suggest
a plan which we think might eahly be ef
fected, viz—yourfelf and family, and such
others of our friends as would incline to
join you, might supply youifelves with ne
cefTaries, and take a house in the country
for lix or seven days, which would come
within our regulation of quarantine, then
to move down among us, where we fliould
cheers ully dispose ot you. Should any car
riages or horses be wanting for vour ac
commodation to bring you to this place,
please mention it to us, and we shall cheer
fully fend them on to you—do leave the city.
Your allured friends, in behalf of the
citizens of Elkton and its vicinity.
Signed by fix inhabitants of Elkton.
Extract of a letter from the Territory
South ot the Ohio, Sept. 4.
" Times here wear but a gloomy afpefl.
The frontier is daily hariaffed by thelndi
ans. On the 28th of August, a party, con
lilting of about 300, killed Lieut. James
Tedford, of the United States troops, and
a Mr Jackson, as they were gathering corn
in a field tor their horses, near Henry's Na
tion —They have lately burnt many homes
011 Nine Mile, and destroyed a prodigious
quantity of wheat, rye and corn. We
hope Governor Blourit, on his return tc
this territory, will be invested with power
to destroy these barbarous tribes."
From the fame, dated Sept. 1.4.
" On the 30th of August, some Indians
killed one young woman and scalped an
other in Washington county ; and, 011 the
y.h inft. a party of them wounded four
perrons, and scalped one, about nine miles
from Green court-house ; a house was also
attacked by them, but they were forced to
retreat by the owner thereof and one of
his daughters, who fired several rounds,
and wounded some of them. On the 16th,
another party of the lavages killed a wo
man and child, on Nine Mile."
Theßritidi packet Duke of Cumberland
arrived at New-York on Friday the 4th
instant. She brings little or nothing of later
intelligence than by the arrivals in the De
laware. Some of the London papers by
her obliquely report. That the French at
Valenciennes, after having delivered up
the fortrefs, by the springing of a mine,
had effected a dreadful' (laughter among
the combined army. Such an event, how
ever improbable, may have happened, as
it is certain that subterraneous works
for some time engaged a department of
the besieged.
On Saturday lafl failed from New-York,
oh a ci'uife, (evoral Frsnch fkipi of war,
antler the command of Admiral Sercy;
viz. L'Eole, flag iliip, of 74 gnus, Admiral
Sercy, commander—Le Jupiter, 74, Capt.
Bompard ; La Concorde, 44, Van Dogen;
La Piecieufe 36, Vallegue ; Le Celt 18,
Bovoftiu ; brig Cornelia (late the l ittle
Democrat) 14 guns, Capt. Amiott; (loop
of war Ceres.
On the 28th tilt, the Governor of Mafia
chtifetts prorogued the Legislature of that
ftateto the 3d Wednesday of January next.
In abridging the correspondence betwetm
M. Clarkfon, Mayor of this city, and Mr.
John Broome, Chairman of the New-York
health-committee, in our last, a small in
miftake was committed thro' hurry.—
Mr. Clarkfon's answer to Mr. Broome was
precisely as follows,
" Sir, —Your letter of the 26th ult. was
not received by me until yesterday evening.
This delay was occasioned ty the general
derangement which hath taken place in this
city by reason of the prevailing malignant
disorder. I have embraced the earliest op
portunity of laying it before the committee,
who request me to inform you, thatnot
withdandingour calamitous fituation.a',l ne
ceelfaries and comforts are here to be found
in abundance ; and that hitherto the means
of obtaining them have arifeii from the en
gagements of a few individuals to the 1 * k
of North-America, whose liberality upon
the occaiion is commensurate with 01 r
wants. A re-payment of the aids which \\ e
hitherto have had and which we (hall re
ceive in future is the only matter ot im
portance about which we have the least
reason to be solicitous.
Having thus exactly defcribcd ourfitua
tiou, we refer it to the citizens of New-
York to exercise their benevolence in such
manner as to thcir.felves (hall be moll agree
able-
"Sir, your 1110 ft obedient, humble fer
vaut, Matthew Ci-akkson.
Extract of a letter from Dover, (Dela
ware) to the Editor of the Nations) Ga
zette, dated October 8.
" I 3111 fwrry you have been induced to
publish so erroneous an account, as that con
tained in your paper of the zd, instant, rcf
pe&ing the inhabitants of Milford. You
may be afi'ured that no circumstance of the
kind ever happened there, or in any other
part of this (late. I feel for the wounded
reputation of the good people of Milford
ill particular, and of this state ill general ;
and 1 think that truth and justice tequire
a conl(ydi£lion of the paragraph."
Extract of another letter from Delawrre
itate, on the fame fubjeft, dated Oft. 9.
" In reading your paper of Wednesday
last, I was not a little surprised at a cir
cumstance laid to have taken place at Mil
ford, in Delaware (late, relpefting the seiz
ins and burning a waggon and goods from
Philadelphia; the (tripping, tarring and
leathering a woman,&c—Report fays,there
was foniething not unlike this happened at
Eartoii in the itate of Maryland : but that
the woman and goods palled Milford un
ditturbed, where the waggon belonged,
and was employed to carry them to Eallon.
It is tliererore a very ill-natured relation
of the matter to palm it upon the good
people of Milford, who have taken no such
meafurei. It will therefore be well to cor
rect this matter, so far as relates to Milford
and the Delaware Hate ; and obliße a 3ub
fcriber."
"The editor of the National Gazette can
not be reasonably held responsible for the
Itriit truth of every paragraph that is com
municated for publication. All lie can <!•
n cafe of any article of intelligence prov
ing ill founded, is, (as in tiie"prefent in-
Lance) to seize the earlieit opportunity to
i*et the public right, by contradicting lalfe
iood, from such authentic documents as
nay be handed to liim.Jj
Extract of a letter£from London to a Mer
chant in New-"i ork, dam' Aug. ytli, 1:93.
" We have the pleasure to allure you,
that commercial credit is almolt rcflured
in this city; and although the war cramps
trade a good deal, 110 failures of any con
"equence have happened lately, nor are
any dreaded.—Six per cents are at par—3
aer cents 56—deferred 59—National Bank
liares 11 jl. flerling."
■ibftraft of the proclamation iltiied by Le
ger Felicite Santhonax, Civil Commis
sary of the French Republic, delegated
to the Islands to re-eltab'ilh order and
tranquility, dated Auguft29- 1793.
The preamble informs the slaves that a
lew order of things will arise, and their
former servitude (hall disappear— but that
:hey mult not think that ths liberty they
are to enjoy will be a state of (loth and
■ dlenefs. Sonthonaxthus addressed them:
" In France every one is free, but all
work for their living —At St. Domingo,
fubjeft to the fame laws, you (hall lollow
the fame example.; return 40 your work
or to your former owners. You (hail re
ceive wages for your labor—you (hall be
110 longer fubjeftcd to the humiliating pu
nifliHients whicli w ere formerly inflificd on
you—you lhall no longer be the property
of anoiher, your own (hall be sacred to
you, and y«u (hall live happy. Liberty
draws you out of r«>n-entity into existence
—Shew yourselves worthy of it—abjure
forever indolence and thelt— have tl.e cousage to br -a ,'f-ee people, and ynu will
joonequ;; 1 '>'? Kuropeaa nations." He
then pi\>cet,<is to eiValilifli articles to be ob
served i" "v - province of the North.
All nevroes and persons oi' mixed blood
new ii..very .ire declared free, to enjoy
all tlpe vijj'nt attached to the character of a
Fre/fich citizen, subject however, to cer
taim regulations cou:ained in the fubfe
q/bent articles.
Ail the former (laves fliatl go and be re-
Riftered in tin municipality in which the)
live, where they shall receive their billet
of citizei:Hiip, ligncd by the civil conimif
fa ry.
Servants, of both sexes. can only be hir
ed for throe months at a salary they may
agree upon.
Servants (ball have a right to demand
their wages every three months.
Nep.rre attached to particular planta
tions, mud remain upon them, receiving
wages from their former proprietor.
. if after fifteen days from the date ol
This proclamation, any negroes or persons
of colour lball be found who have not
<aufed themfelve* to be regiflercd, &c
----they shall be put in prison.
The puniftiment of the whip (hall be
to' Ilv discontinued, for which, ill cases of
offences against; civil order, (hall be fubfti
luteu tn-L o) the-Barre.
Extract of a letter frcm Charleston, dated
August 25, 1793
- " This city been for this week pad
in an uproar and alarm. '1 is milch leareci
that the negroes who have come here witl
the French people, have said so much abonl
the infll-rcftions at St. Domingo, that \\ c
haveevery reason toapprehendone here; w«
have heard some convrrfation amongthem
and an attempt lias beer, made to breal
open the magazine—all the militia are ou'
every night, and the iigbt-horfe patrol tht
Hi eets and roads all night. We are in i
dreadful alarm, for our situation here i'
very precarious, & much to be apprehend
ed from the Indians, domestics and dif
afFected peonle now among us. The ne
groes have become very iufolent; there h'(
a gi eat many French people come here ii
tliifrefs, and 'übferiptions are continual!)
going about for them ; many gentlemei
have taken them in."
The effects of the gold that has beer
spread thro' France, by the combined tv
rants of Europe, are vilible in the infur
reftions in a few departments of the re
public, against the Convention. This seem;
to be the ultimate reliance of the despotic
league, and (liould this fail a peace may be
soon expected; (liould the monarchical
party, however, succeed (oi which there ii
little probability) a partition of France
inay be expefted-mons; the leagued p*'w
ers. It is to be lamented that a pol'ticm
neutrality has prevented the weight ot A
merica from being thrown at this perioc
into the republican scale of Europe. A Uriel
neutrality on our part may be policy ir
the narrow view of iutereft, but is no
manifeftation of the generous and benig
nant virtues of the heart. American 1
How mull it mortify your pride I
To lake the strict, impartial, lide ;
Say, will your eyes refute a tear,
When all the fad etfeits appear !
The Legislature of Maffachufetti, a!
their late fellion, determined, that a (late,
in point of fneability is not liable to federa
jurifdiftfon or amenable to fumuionfes in-
Itituted by the federal courts.'
The following Advartijement appears ii
a London Paper of July 23. —" BOARD
AND LODGING." (AddrefiVd to Gen
tlemen)—lf a gentleman of honour and ii
berality will advance a lady fiity pounds
for which he (hall be accommodated witi
board and lodging for a term as may b(
agreed on, any gentleman who wishes tin
society of a pleating and agreeable coin
pauion, well educated, will not be disap
pointed in the Advertiser. Situation is ii
town, but centrical and pUaja'it. Letter
addrefled to A- W. at the office of this pa
per will be duly attended to.
Idle curiosity will not be gratified !!!"
By accounts from Amsterdam, receive*
at New-York, the Marquis de la Fayette
died in Augult last in Magdeburgh prison.
The latter part of this gentleman's life ha
been lingularly unfortunate, indeed. Hi
death will be universally regretted by Ame
ricans.
It is said in New-York papers of Thtirf
day last, that the number of deaths in Phi
ladelphia, from the 19th of August to tht
4th of October, amounts to four thoufanc
and sixty-sour persons.
Extract of a letter from a gentleman in
Belfaft (Ireland) to his friend in N.York,
dated July 30, 1793.
*' With refpett to the politics of Europe,
I wish to be silent, as I cannot fay any
thing plealing—l fee nothing but cruelty
and oppreflion ; the law delivered at the
mouth of »he cannon, and the wicked, the
cruel oppreflbr riding triumphant! It is
the opinion of some, and I think it not im
probable, that if the combined armies are
able to subdue France, they will soon finda
pretext for going to war againfi America-
I observe, that they are fighting as much
ajaiiifipreiich principles, as against F renc-j
pewit-; sni! the principles of the American
government, are certainly as inimical to
tl.e governments of Europeans thole of the
French. My own opinion reflecting the
French, always was, and ft ill is, that it is
the cause of God, ami limit prosper ; but
were the combined powers to attacic the
American government., 1 would mticli ra
ther'be deflroyed ill the conlelt, than sur
vive its fall."
Ext red of a letter from Bo!} on, Ofleber 2.
'• The late decifioijs of our worthy legif
lature,in refpetl to the quetliorf of the ftie
ability of a Hate in the federal court have
given much sincere fatisfaclion t» all the
real republicans i:i this metropolis. The
encroachments ofdefpotifm often advance
under very suspicious habiliments ; filch as
the expediency of rendering justice to in
dividuals, &c. When the federal conlli
tution was propoftd to the people of Ame
rica the artificers of a certain fpeculatjng
arilfocratic junto made it almost treason to
offer one's sentiments openly and inde
pendently; fnue its adoption, this lame
clals of men who revel in the sweets Sweat
ed fri.m the warworn veteran, have uni
formly and unceasingly exerted themselves
to add dignity* energy, and refpecfability
(all bring compjifed in the comprenenfive
term power \to the federal head. Our
people vieli know, that as the federal go
vernment has the imp oft, whatever revenue
the State has to raile nilift be drawn from
diredl taxation, which is iTioi e odious than
the or her mode. They also know, that it
the wedge of the federal judiciary is once
completely entered, the republican Hate
governments will become mere will and
pleasure in* tiittans ; and infteari of the
10. al convenient competent ellablilhments
of the several {fates a coi.fo idation of the
whole would concentrate the rayt of power
to afocits J and nobies and viceroys Be ap
pointed over tern as foperintendants of
dillricts, &c. Routs and levees would a
dorn our commercial capitals, and my lord
and his grace would gratify our captivated
senses, and the court would give the tail
of the day.
" That the general government (or some
concerned in the adininillraiion of it) un
der various pretences, is aiming at the ftib
verflon of the (late governments, the 1110 ft
fuperficial obferyer must admit, and it no
longer remains problematical, that unless
they are fupprefled, the pierogatives of the
great departments will soon become highly
inimical to republican liberty; it is there
fore to be hoped, that the legid.ittires ot
the several states will reflect well 011 the
present condition of that as the
centinels over the liberties of their c«nlti
tuents, they will check the approach of ar
bitrary power under whatever form it ap
pears ; and transmit to posterity.unimpair
ed, those republican forms, tor the clta-
Ifciblifliment of which, their fathers lought,
bled, and died.
" Those Oracles who have attempted to
laytheaxe to the root of republican liberty,
abound in legal fubtilties : they can define,
construe, and distort at plea.tire; and
some ot them after havi: g oeen inimical to
American liberty ; and others too poltroo
niln to remain 011 this fide of the Atlantic
during our late ftruggle —now come io.-
ward oc hope,by their cobweb conllruftions
to annihilate iliou free republican forms
which have withflood the blalls of tyran
ny, and which, itishoped, will stand as
monuments, to lia.'d down to the latter
ages, the remembrance "f the glorious
asra of American liberty and independence.
The ihfatiabie demagogues ol power be
tray themselves by their zeai. If the itate
governments aie odious to the people, and
injurious to liberty, tt belongs to tnem ru
determine how far they lhall be afliiiled 01
subverted.
14 It cenainlv comes with a bad grace
from that vortex which every thinking 111.m
well knows is impatient ot the reltraints
of rivallhip, and greedy alter power. Ihe
great majority 011 the qticltion with us is
an evidence of the sentiments of the people
in this quarter."
We are informed the several church
congregations in New-York, hold public
prayers in their relpe£live places of uur-
Ihip. every Wedncldayevening, oil account
of the contagious malady in this city .
- fVom w hat general enquiry we have
been able to make it does n»t appear that
the mortality in this city yet (bates to an)
onliderable degree—lt is observed inE
iypt, that when the Nile b. gins to over-
Bow the country, ihe plague, and every
other species of pestilence inltantly ceases.
May we not hope, that when a season of rain
arrives, it may, as a natural cause, have a
limilar effect in abating or deflroying the
present disorder in this city ?
Extract of a letter from London,
July 2t.
" My mind at this moment, is voo inten 1
on other objefls, ro (ay much of the , 1 efent
commotions in Europe ; no very momen
tous, event has taken place ; the contend
ing parties seem to pursue their objects with
vigour ; but the combined powers have
mure difficulties to encounter in subduing
France, than they at firlt were aware 01.
'Tis true, France has many internal evils
—too great a number of unprincipled men
have at present the reins of government i
almost all their appointments, both civil and
military, have been injudicionfly made,and
the natural conletjuences have followed,
biit they all seem enthnfiafticaliy united in
a determination to be free ; their country
at litis moment abounds will a degree oi
plenty ot all the Decenaries of life unknown
to any other (tate in Europe. The com
bined armies have Valenciennes at lull;
but at an inmienfe expence ; the winter i
falt approaching, and very little more will
probably be done till the spring, but the
combined armies must be fed and clad ai
an amazing expence, while the French ar
my is in its own territory, in the midst of 2
plentiful tou try. All things taken inti
view, I think France has every thing u
hope for, and nothing to feai—the prince;
pretend their sole object is to restore a go
vernment to France of filch a nature, a<
will make them happy. But viewing the
conduct of the cmprefs of Russia toward:
Poland, in a very recent inftancs, and the
acquiescence of all the courts of Europt
in her abomiliable conduct, what have we
to conclude but that, not only the liberties
of France, but thole of all Europe are in
volved in the decision of the present strug
gle."
Norfolk, Octob. 2. The emigrants from
Cape Francois would do well to remem
ber, that they have been received asfriends
and Frenchmen in distress ; but when the*
attempt to violate our laws, they are IH
longer entitled to our sympathy or protec
tion. The very daring outrage offered ti
a person, who is fan] to ha\ e been fecrcta
ry to the commiflioMers Santhonax and Pol
verel, fills every true American with fenti
inems of the warmest indignation. Thi
Americans, as friends to fiance, are 110
disposed to examine their local or part;
disputes ; but they not only hope for, bu
will exact an observance of the laws o
America.
On the i 3th and 14th of September, tht
following prize veiiels arrived at Charles
ton. They were captured by the Sans Pa
reille and Industry, French privateers.—
Sloop Maria, Ihip Two Brothers. (hip Har
riot, and Ihip Sovereign, all from Honduras
— Snow Adventure tk fiiip Redington iron
Jamaica. The last mentioned velfel wa
ordered for the Chefapeak.
On Monday l.ift arrived in Hamptor
Roads the Ihip George and Patty Walhing
ton, Capt. Calk from Bourdeanx, bouiit
to Baltimore, which place he leiL the Btl
of August.
A French gentleman who came paflengei
informs, that 011 the iflof Aug. theroyalifti
-vere defeated near Nantes ; but that al
Saumur.the royalists had attacked the Pa
triotic army, and defeated them ; particu
larly a body of 15,000 ParHians, undei
omn and of Gen/ Santerre, who elcaped
to Tours, the only fugitive. The royaliils
together, amounted to 130,000 men, com
pleiely armed, and commanded by gooc
officers. Their proceedings were conduct
eduith humanity, and even generolity 11
such pi ices as fell into their hands.
Capt. Calk saw, on the 10th of Atlglifl
the Krencli and Engiilh fleetiin light of eac/
■ithsr, waiting to convoy their refpe£liv<
Weft-India fleets into port. As they hm
been leveral days in fight, it was imaginec
the above circumftanpe prevented their en
gaging. Capt. Calk failed thro' a fleet o:
Engiilh merchantmen 011 his puffage ! ere.
On Monday evening arrived in town,
Capt. Marflial, of the schooner Crescent
from Jamaica, bound to Alexandria, win
was captured the fame morning betweei
three and four leagues off the L ght-houfe
by the polacre privateer Sans Culattes, o
Marseilles.
On Sunday morning the above privatee:
captured the brig Cunningham,Capt. Clin
mngliaiii, from Derry, in lieland; (lie wa
at anchor about four miles from land, ani
had taken a pilot 011 board two days before
80th the above velfels are sent to Balti
more.'
London Papers to the middle of Auguf
mention the death ol Gen, Cufline, hii
having been guillotined, and his body to'r
in pieces by the enraged populace. Ti <
charges 01 ought againll him on his tria
(hall appear in our next. The fame Londor
papers mertion it, as a repot/, that on tht
3«l of August, the queen of Fran e wai
found guilty by the revolutionary tribuu. 1
and was sentenced to be put to d.'ath by 11 <
guillotine on the f.mie (pot where Lot 11
he 16th fuffored ; bwt that on her way 10
execution Ike was taken from the guarci
and torn to pieces by the populace. The
papers adjil, "it is hoped the report wil,
prove untrue; but that the account is nt
longer doubted to be a facl."
From a London Paper of July 31.
The French Eaft-Indiaman, San Jean dt
Leno, prize, to the Surprize privateer, i
fafe arrived at moorings off Depiiord \ ai d.
Her cargo i? rated at 410,c001, lterling, oi
which goods to the amount of 85,c001. ar<
claimed by Mefi'rs. Conllable and Co- oi
New-York, in America, one of the part
ners of whole house was 011 board her wher
captured ; also goods to the amount ol
35,0c01. are claimed by a house at Geneva
The reft wiU be the property of the cap
tors.
The packet (hip Delaware, Capt. Art.
1 from Charletlon, is arrived in the Dela
[ ware, but is detained at Marcus Hook, foi
infpeilion,
On Monday fe'nnight arrived at Bofion,'
from Halifax, the Britilh frigate HufTar,
of 28 guns, Rupert George, cammander,
with dispatches tor tlie English consul there.
When the Prince of Saxe Cobeurg took
poffeflion of the city of Conde, he did it,
not in the name of Louis XVII, but hi
the name of the Emperor of Germany,and
King of Prullia, Thus it appears plain,
that the partition of France is the object of
th" combined powers. What England i»
to receive 011 dividend day, is unknown ;
certainly jio Valencier.net. If (lie can
take Dunkirk, againll which (lie is bending
her force, thatpollibly may be her's. II nut
the may get—some millions more indkbt
— and the pleasing fatisfaction of having
—paid the piper."
Lord Dorchelter, the Governor Generil
ot th» Canadas, was preparing to quit Eng
land, at the date of our iaft accounts, for
Quebec.
Itj'To the Citizens A SUPPLY of old
(liirts, Ihifts, and linen of any kind is much
wanted at the hospital for the (ick. Those
who have any . to spare are requested to
fend them to the State-House, where a
person is appointed to receive them.
Matthew Clar.kson, Mayor.
Anecdote of the celebrated
FRANKLIN.
THE Doctor wifliing to amuse himfelf
with the credulity of the votaries of phlo-
I'opliy, proposed to the Royal Society cf
London the following question, of whiih
he requested a solution, viz.—"Why will
a Tub, with a Fifli in it, contain as much
water as it will without the fifli."
Many Academical pates were employed
in solving this difficult problem. Many
ingen<ous felutions were delivered in ; but,
jult as they were proceeding to publifb the
one that was deemed the melt so. the
Doctor informed them that there was a
(mall inaccuracy in their operations, which
he begged leave to rectify, by assuring them
that a Tub with a Filll in it would NOT
contain as much Water as if the ftlh were
out-
Fcr the National Gazette.
TX7HOEVER reflects on the many in*
' (lances in which Divine Providence
has displayed its iavor and protection to
the people of America, during the late war
with Great-Bri. —n, and the numerous ad
vantages we erjoy over all the nations of
the earth, must be convinced how little we
have deserved the repeated blefiings which
have been daily heaped on us, and how
juflly we have incurred the displeasure of
our Almighty Benefa£tor. To the aflon
ifliment of the world, we repelled the force
of a powerful kingdom, who proudly
beaded itfelf to be tbe sovereign of the
ocean ; whose troops, in point of discipline
and courage, werefuppofed to be unequal
led, and compelled them to ackuovvledge
our independence. Shall we arrogate to
ourselves the praise due to our Omnipo
tent Prel'erver ?—When all the horrors of
war are pervading oiher countries, and
the blood of thousands spilled in defence of
liberty, and the equal rights of mail, we
have eilablilhcd our form of government
in a peaceable manner, and have experi
enced without interruption, the various be
nefits which have proceeded from its ad
ninillration. Is this to be imputed to out*
own wifdoni ? Shall the Supreme Ruler
of the Universe, who can raise up, and pull
down the nations of the earth at his plea
lure, be forgot,'Or (hall the glory which
ought to be ascribed to him, be given to
ourselves ? Remember, my countrymen,
the denunciation of an offended God against
the Children of Israel, for disobedience
and ingratitude—" The Lord (hall make
:he pellilence cleave unto thee, until he
have coufumed thee from off the land whi
ter thou goeft to poil'efs it. The Lord
ifiall finite thee with a consumption, and
with a lever, aud with an itidammatton,
aid with an extreme burning, and witlj
the sword, and with blading, and with
mil lew, and they (hall pursue thee until
■ h» 1 perilh.''
A malignant disorder hath for some time
prevailed among us ; its baneful etiects
have spread into dift'ereut parts of our
country, and swept away a number of the
inhabitants. The gay, the sprightly youth,
who to-day appears in the bleom ol health,
may to-morrow be a cold and lifelefa
eorpfe. Already have \\ e been deprived
of many uleful members of society, and we
ire hourly threatened with the less of
more. That awful Power who has per
mitted the pestilence to rage among us,
. an only determine how far it will extend.
Let us then, by a timely, and sincere re
pentance, endeavor to avert the danger
ivhioh hangs over 11s, and appease the rage
of our righteous Judge. Let this folcnnt
truth be (Irongly uiiprefled on our minds,
that, in proportion to the value of the fa
vors we enjoy, will be our punishment for
the abuse of them ; and may we, by a be
coming reverence for our Creator, and
obcdience to his commandments, merit
his bleffiog atul fnpport, especially when
we conlider, that he doth according to his
wilt in the armies of heaven, and among
the inhabitants of the eartb.
06t. 1 u AN AMERICAN.Foreign Intelligence.
PARIS, July 16.
Our c~ufe is an univerfn' one, and our
unparalltltd (trugglcs and fufferings malt
certainly excite the attention and ardent
good wilhes of tlie whole human race. Be.
nevolent minds are no doubt afflitteJ at
the effufion of human blood, but let them
remember, that the contelt in which we
are engaged, hss for its object nniverfal
an 1 perpetual peace. If we succeed in
establishing our principles in Europe, and
abolishing kingly government. 0 , we (h?ll
ce/tainly eradicate the principal causes
which have, for centuries, produced w;r
after war, and Itained our planet with the
blood of its inhabitants. Should our cause
fueceed, men would indeed be sensible of
their rights, and na longer fuffer their in
llrumentsof husbandry to be vvretled from
their hands, a death giving weapon placed
in their (lead, and then at the nod of an
impious tyrant, absurdly, fhamefully fuffer
themselves to be led, to cut the throats of
armher body of cultivators of the earth,
i 0 :iorant, innocent, slaves like themselves,
to whom they could give a fratern.il em
brace, at the very moment they are com
manded to deprive them of life ! Should
our principles take root in the world,
commerce and the intercourse between n't
tions would no longer be iubjetted to the
narrow and ridiculous policy, of avaricious
despots, who are always the most ignorant
of men with refpeft to the true interests of
civilized man. .But It is now certain, that
the age of light and reason is approaching,
the time so long wished for, by philoso
phers and philanthrop-.ile ; the agt of pre
judices, ignorance and tyranny is passing
away ; men begin to think and act for
themselves, our insulted and degraded fpe
cie3 rises at lalt, indignant, filled with as
tonishment that they have tamely crept at
the footltools of gods of their own mak
ing, for so many thousand years.
Some enemies to our happiness are at
this inflant oufily employed, in spreading
falfe and altered copies of the conltitution
through the whole extent of the Repub
lic But the Convention in their late Ad
dress to the People, " promise to watch
over it, and to follow it with an eagle's
eye, u.itil it arrives in all its purity at the
molt diltant cottage in the nation." The
Convention invites a 1 friends to Libeity,
to discover tiiefe fabricators of falfe laws.
" The monflers who are breaking the an
chor of propriety which has jult been
thrown in the mic.ft of the tempelt," and
entreats all good citizens to suspend their
judgments, until they fee the authentic co
pies, addreffe'd direiHy from the executive
council, to the communcs and constituted
authorities. The Convention fay they
•' cxpefted some such wicked at'empt, as
every grand epoch of the Revolution has
always suggested a new crime to ariilocracy
and royalty." "The success of our republi
an conltitution" fays the Address, is cer
tain; for if it had been " hurl ful to the people
and unfavourable to their rights, ariilocra
cy would never have attempted to alter it."
The Convention has decrced •' that the
punidiment of death (hall be inflidted on
any person who prints, fells or distributes
any falfified or altered copy of the Conlti
tution."
July 2T. The combined efforts of the
despots against us, have made us know
and feel our own strength and vast re
sources. "Our citizens so far from be rig
dismayed at the number and force 6f their
enemies, breathe nothing but revenge for
their infamous attempts againlt our (acred
freedom. The contempt of our soldiers
for the Aultrians, is hardly to be conceived.
(The Spaniards we count nothing.) The
king of Prussia's coffers are exhaulled, and
he mull soon quit. With refpeft to Eng
land, we may fay, "and thou too Brutus!''
The Englifli, that once free and generous
people, are now leagued with tyrants in a
libcrticide war. But we fear them not,
we wilh their happiness, and as a firlt step
towards it, the invasion of England is, at
length, firmly resolved on. It is no secret,
for if we will it, nothing can hinder us.
We (hall embark near the fame place where
our fierce and hardy anceflors did above
seven hundred years ago. Those irrefifta
ble conquerors who crofiing the narrow
sea, conquered and threw chains over the
English, and held their faces in the dull
for so many centuries. But our invasion
is totally different in its nature. We (hall
not land on their coast to enslave them,
but to break their chains, to humble their
tyrants, and restore—to the nation, that
liberty, which a people, naturally so brave
and so high fpiritej, are entitled to enj' y."
The Tiger privateer has brought into
Brest, three Englilh vessels, which were
designed for the coait of Bretagne. One
of them haa on board a large sura of mo
ney.
■London, Augutl 15 —17.
Exirafl of a letter from Leghorn, July 18.
" The beginning of iaft week a despe
rate engagement happened off the illand of
Corsica, between an Algenne frigate and
one belonging to the French Republic ;
they fought with the greatest br very for
five hours, when night parted them ; the
next morning, at break of day, the con
flict was renewed with equal courage, and
the most determined o -ltinacy on both
fides, for Uj,wards of nine glaiTes, great
pi't of the time within pistol (hot of each
other, The Algerines made several at
tempts to board, but wete as often beat
off with great flaughrer, yet so damg and
resolute were the nirater, that they run
their fh;p along fide the French in spite
of ail resistance, and grappled them so fail,
that every effort to get clear was in vain :
the infidels immediately jump.d on board
fvvord in hand, swearing bit'erly, in seve
ral languages, they would conquer or die,
neither would they give or take quarter ;
the Republicans received them with great
spirit and resolution, when a most dreadful
carnage ensued, with fvvords, pistols, ja
velins, and lances, till at lad the French
were overpowered and o liged to flrike to
these terrible barbarians : the pirates loil
in hoth rencounters upwards of 100 men,
besides all iheir officers ; the boalfwain
was the last who had the command, this
fellow, altho' wounded in several parts of
the body, rcfufed to quit the deck, and
died as he wa3 encouraging tbe reft to
fight. The French mounted 30 guns, and
the Algerines 28, besides peteraros, and
thetf were both in such a Shattered condi
tion that it wa3 next to an impoffibihty
either of them could reach Algiers.
" P S. The Algerine Captain was (hot
through the head in the height of the ac
tion, as he was nailing the colours to the
mast ; and the firft and second lieutenants,
who were both his sons, shared the fame
fate soon after ; it was alio reported that
they both funk the next day, and what
remained of the crews were taken up by a
Tunisian bark, ana carried into Tunis."
War/aw, July 20. The fate of Poland
fecms unchangeably fixed. On Monday
the 15th day of July the deputies held
their second conference with the Ruffian
ambaffatlor, and delivered to him a memo
rial, which they requested hitn to forward
to the empress. This he absolutely refuf
ed to do, and in a note which he sent to
the Diet, accompanied by menaces, he
infilled on the signature and ratification
of the treaty of alliance and commerce
between Russia and the Republic, and that
the deputies fhoukl be invelted with ful;
powers to do the tame.
In the felfion of the fame day (the 15th)
when this note vva3 read, the Diet con
sented to the prorogation of the session
till the 30th inft. but refufed to comply
with the willies of the Ruffian ambafTador
rcfpe&ing the treaty of alliance. This
treaty, a plan of which the deputies pre
sented on that day to the Diet, conlifts
of ten articles, and contains some advan
tages at the expence of some faerifices.
! he Polish nation may chufe the form of
government which it conceives bed adapt
ed to its interests, except that of the 3d of
May, 179 1 ; but the basis of the advanta
ges to be granted to Poland is the com
plete and full ratification of the treaty of
partition between the courts of Peterf
burgh and Berlin, in its full extent, as
was required on the 9th of April.
In conftquence of the refufal of the
Diet to accede, the Ruffian ambassador or.
the 16th sent a note tantamount to a for
mal declaration of war. He said in this
note, that unless the deputies were invert
ed with the authority required on the
17th, he (hould lay the eftaUs, possessions,
and habitations of the members of the Di
et, under a military execution ; and (hould
the king adhere to the oppoiite party, the
royal domains would be treated in the fame
manner.
The Diet, in consequence of these me
naces, by the advice of the king, who saw
with grief the danger of a vain refinance,
at length yielded, and the resolution was
carried by a majority of 69 to 20 ; but a
number of proieftj were entsred on the
occasion; Poland must therefore submit to
its fi.?e, amidit the absolute silence cf all
Europe.
The city of G'odno 13 closely Mocked
up by foreign troops, and no one can quit
ihe city wiibout a pr.Tport from the Ri.fii
an ambafiador, net even to t; ke a walk.
Count de Sievers has offered the foreign
minillera their palTport, but the diplomv
tic coips have rtfufed his uifer3, aj contrary
to the liberties and respect due to their
chaiatter.
No information whkh we should tli'nk
it prudent to rely upon has yet found its
way to us with regard to the dtligns of
the Prussian or combined arnifes. They
are probably cor cealtd with great indullry,
as nothing can so much hairafii the French
force! or divide their atteniion, as the ge
neral ftatc of uncertainty in which all par
tes seem at present to remain. On the
22d of July there was a very serious action
in the neighbourhood of Landau, in which
the French, if we are to give credit to the
conquerors, left five thousand d>:ad upon
the field of battle. By their movements
subsequent to this defeat, if appears that
their immediate apprehensions are for I hi
onville, the chief town of French Luxem
bourg, and a fort*efs of confiderabl<
(Irengtb, which, it may be remembered,
signalized itfelf in the lad campaign by a
v.-rry gallant defence under Gen. Wimpfen,
now commander in chief of the French
forces in opposition to the Convention.
METEOROLOGICAL OBSEK Vs(TlO NS.
October 1793*
D. lil Baron. Tber.j ir.nJAJVeatber
Tuesday, J. 7 30, jr. 64 1 S.W. Cloudy.
aj 30. r 80 j do. !Fair.
iVednrjduy, 2. 7! 29. 1, 70 j W. Wuucy.
a 1 30. C, 72 N.N. w'/V'V.
Tburjday, 3. 71 30. a 50 W. j Fair*
J-\ 30. IS 7- S.W. | dc
Friday, 4. 7] 29. 75! 59 S.W. jCh'udy.
21 29. 71 72 I W. I do.
Saturday, 5. j\ 30. c| $8 N. Fair.
21 30. 11 66 do. do.
Sunday,] t. 7I 30. 3 43 N.E. \Fair.
2I 30. 3 | 66 W. I do.
Monday, 7. 7 30.4 s! 46 cairn.ll dir.
*\ I I
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold at the refpedtive Book Stores o
Jofepb CrukJJjank and Tbsmas Dobfon, and ma 1
be had at the Prinring QtHce, No. 2C9, Mar
ket-Street. [Price one eighth cf a dollar.]
L E T TERS,
AddrefTed to the Yeomanry of the
United States:
Containing some Obfervarions on Funding
and Bank Syflems:
BY an AMERICAN FARMER.
Allen town/hip, Lancap.er county,
EIGHT DOLLARS REWARD.
RAN AWAY on the 20th of June las*, from
the fubfoiber living in Caroline councy, in
end date of Maryland, near Choptank Bridge, a
NEGRO BOY, named J-jnatban, about 15
years of age—he is free bom, but a bound fervani
until 21 years of age—he is toler«»Viy flout an<i
trait built, has a yellow cart in his countenance;
talket-h wi;h his tongue against his tceih, ha:
large thick seer, his toes square to the ends—hi:
mother's nam® is Lidye, who now lives in Jones'
Neck in Delaware state, where the boy has form
ed some acquaintance since he run away. Anv
person taking him up, must act with the grearefi
caution, or he will give them the llip. Whoeve:
takes up tSie said boy, and fecurts hini To tha
the owner may have him again, ill ail have th<
above reward, paid by
WILLIAM JACKSON-
Sept. 4, 1793# 2aw6w
Seat of War.
FOR SALE,
At M. Carey's Store, 118, Mar
ket-street.
A SHEET MAP
Of the French, Austrian and Dutch Ne
therlands,
In which the progress of the prrfent War
may be traced.
Price three eighths of a Dollar.
And a MA P of the
Three-Northern Diibidls of France, di
vided into Departments—Price
one fourth of a Dollar.
Maps of the United States :
ANY public-spirited gentlemen, po fie fled with
materials for corre&ing and improving the
maps of the several states, will lay M. Carey
under very particular obligations, by communi
cating them. He is in immediate want cf some
for New-Jersey and Delaware j of which Hates,
he ia now preparing maps.
Guthrie's Geography :
THE fubicription for this work wjil be conti
r ued open, at the piefent rate ot' CweUs dollars,
till the firft day of November next; a.tcr which
it will be ra'fed to fcurtoe 1 dollars.
August 10.
To be Sold or Det,
(Ar.d of this immediate poffejfiu* given.)
I' handsome, well-bunt thrc.e story Revr
houff, situate o-i the call lidc south
Fourth-street, ne. r the Indian Queen, Philadel
phia. T! is situation is valuable, being\in a
central part of the city, 3nd convenient to\ the
and public ifice;. The house is 25 Veec
in front, and, v>iin its office?, extends nearly iir»
feet backward'. It has the privilege cf an alley
4\ feet wias' The offices are three stories high,,
and, together with the house, are built of brick :
thefecontain five apartments, belides a wash house,
and four of th<?m have fi;e places. In the dwell
irg ho»fe iifelf, there are nine rooms and eight
fiie places : fix of the rooms are spacious, and all
fashionably finifhed. The gairets are ceiled : the
ft.iir-cafe is elegant. There is a good cellar u&der
the whule, and in the yard a pump.
And to he So/d,
230 Acres of unimproved land,,lß miles from the
thriving town 0/ Harrifborg, Pennsylvania. This
r radt lies in a val'ey, and is said to be very good
farming lan.i. There are on? or more mills near
the prem.fes. The river Juniata is about
miles distant j whence it is boatable into the Suf- j
quehanna, and thence to Harrifburg. Also,
A dffirabie retreat, or farm, in Newtown, the
county town of Bucks, Pennsylvania j contain
ing nearly 15 acres of land, naturally very rich,
and now highly improved. It is surrounded on a!)
fides by publ:c streets or roads $ and maj, with
present advantage, be converted into town lots
that would prove of growing importance. T here
i? a commodious brit'c house upon the premises,
two ftorics in height, having four rooms on a
floor, a fpaciou3 entry,or pafiage throughout, ar:d
a cellar extending under the whole house. It is
well accommodated with out house?. About thiee
acres are occupied by an orchard of the best graft
ed Newtown pippins r dirtant from Philadelphia
25 m.li s ; irum Trenton 9 j from Bristol 11 j and
is wiihin five miles if the river Delaware. The
lunation is extremely lieaKhy j the profpe&s aie
:harn.ing!y pidurefyue, and the neighbourhood
itlords a genteel focietv.
Beftdii the above,
Tivo comer lots in the town, of one sere each,
ire oneieu for sale, together with about 16 acres
>f excc.lcnt 'and, half a mile from the town,
jnder the best culture ami improvement* Two
>r lhr»e of these acres are in timber.
L,k etui ft :t be Sold,
An tfmebu faun of 53® acres, in the county
)f Cheltcr, 39 miles from Philadelphia : too acrej
t which aie of the riche.fl bottom. The whole
■(' this land tllj'js a k ; nd, strong and fertile foil,
i we I] watered, and admiiably adapted to the
■ailing , f grpi.i and all kind! of rtock ; at prcfent
here aie nearly acres of made-meadow, and
20 or more it watered meadow mav be made
at plealuie : about 200 lie luxuriantly covered
vith a variety cf valuable timber. Up„n the
rem fes, theie a:e a farm house, barn, &c. a
.lever-failing rtream of good water, and a moil
productive aj-ple orchard covering about fix acres ;
he fruit of a good and lading quality : the pur
.hafer may be accommodated with all or any pare
■ f ihetWk or farming utensils upon the place.
1 1 e position of this farm is important, lying oil
bothafiJes of the main road, .tid bounced fouth
eriy by the road to Philadelphia through Down
ng-town j — whence it is aiftant 12 or J3 miles :
On the no.th itisboundid by the road to Waiwiclc
Furnace, firuafe but a lew miles dittant. At this
;>oint, the premise» enjoy a capital (land both for
a ft ore and tavern, and also an eligible situation
;ur a village, which would here have some
commanding advantages, and might be an objr£t
to any entl.emen wifliing to found an extensive
ind p;f.irable fcttlement. On the one fide, it
has a dircO cr mmunication with Downing'a
own j and with the lich and populous fcttletncst
t Cuneftsgo vailey on the other, both lying with,
n a fhert ride of the place. There is ahtady a
naiket here for produce at the Philadelphia priccs
— the neighbouring iion-works creating a conHant
iemand. Plenty ot good linaeftone may be had
vithin 5 miles of the premises, and a to
lrake use of . will be conveyed by the propric
or it required. In iitort this farm deserves the
itte?.:ion of any pei son or persons inclined to
ivail therpftlves of advantages such as those it
>o fit* lies.
1 he title to the several premises are indifputa
>ie ; and the proprietor will warrant to defend
hem. The terms of sale, for all or any of the
ar.ds, w ill be made iccommodating to the purcho
eis. For tarther particulars, apply to the fut
criber, at No. 6, luuth Fourth-itreef, or at hi
tore, the corner at Market and Thiid-flreeta
Philadelphia.
ROBERT SMOCK.
Au S- 10. la. w. t. f.
JUST PUBLISHED,
And to be fold by THOMAs Dobson, Wil
liamYounc, Robert Campbell,
Meflrs. Rice and Co. and JoliM M'
Cui.loch, No. 1. North Third-flieet,
A N JI.XAMINATION of the late j;ro
* ceedings in Congress rtfpcaing the
official conduct of the Secretary of the
I reafury; with Observations, &c. on the
application of loans from Holland, negoti
ated under the acls of the 4th and 12th of
Augult 1790. —The price of the above
>.imph!et is three Sixteenths of a dollar, or
is 4d. i-a. April 24. aawtf
*jt* The author requests his readers to
.orieft the following ERRATA in the
Damphlet above mentioned Page 5.
in 11—2 d. paragraph, lor Coalition read
Collijion. Paj,e2s. line 11 —2d. parag.
initead of Bar.k diretlori read "Stock
holders."
PRINTED BT
CHILDS and SWAINE,
AT TfIEU «yriCE N0.209, NICH-iTIIKT,
rirTH-STRUT,
PHILADtLPKIA.