Nums. 57 of Vol. ll.]
For the Na - : 10.NAL Gazette.
Aucirejs to the Citizens of the United States
[Concluded from our lad.]
X_tAVING attempted a lhort explanation
" of our duties wirh refpeit to pity, len
<-!l>ililv, and gratitude ; apologized tor the
part which some friends of mankind have
taken in conversation againd the rigid pro
ceedings of the French ; traced the out
lines of a portrait of the violent enemies
of Frenc i principles ; considered it as in
dubitable that the king of the French had
secretly aflided the invaders of his country;
taken a (light view of the three principal
nations engaged in the late war ; ot the
war, and fo'iie of its consequences ; and
given a colouring to the portra t of our
Anti-republican Americans : I lhall now
proceed to notice some general afperlion*
thrown upon the French nation, and the
partieular charges of unparaleiled cruelt)
and arbitrary proceedings against Louis
C pet, and intersperse the remaining part
of this efl <y with such observations as may
elucidate my ideas of the necessity of rigo
rous measures, and serve as a lookiiig
glafs, as well to our bewildered republi
cans, as to the declared defenders of 1110-
narchs.
The French, itisfaid, are devoid of ah
religion, a nation of Atheills! A heavy
charge indeed, and perhaps 100 true wit.:
respect to many of them, but not much, it
any, more applicable to them than 10 their
accusers. Are the cabinets and armies ot
their enemies, are their (la ulerers puritifd
from Atheism ? They are not —they arc in
aliemblage of Biguts and AtheifU, it is *
mark of a political creed ; and tho' tlie
Hate of religion in France may be very low
at present, there is n< doubt, but th t un
der the liberty of couCcience there permit
ted, the French will reflect upon, and be
convinced of the importance o4 religious
opinions.
The French, fay their enemies, are mad
men, in endeavouring to introduce whai
they call the levelling system, and the idea
of equality, which is not found d in na
ture. It is true, that the diilin&ions
which nature and accident occaliou will
always remain, but let those definitions
be regulated by nature and accident only,
not by law ; yet th.s fyltem ought ratlu r'o
be called an elevating, than a I villi
one, as it raises the bulk of the people, but
deb ifes none.
Again, the tryal ar.d the condemnation
of the late king was neither the real voice
of the nation nor that of the convention,
many members of that body went to the
trial, with a determination to vote for
him, but were forced, through the fear ol
immediate death, to join the mob; the
falfehood ot this aflertion will appear to a
ny candid person, if he reflects but a mo
ment on the liberty of speech exercised by
fevcral with impunity, whillt aflaflination
was the fate of Michael Le Pelletier. In
all revolutions of government and civil
wars, it has been a misfortune common to
the fmallelt and weaked party to believe
that they spoke the will of a great majori
ty of the people : Thus, in 1775, the ad
herents to Britain, were fully perfuadtd
that they spoke the voice of the count, y—
thus, in La Fayette wrote, that the
French were for monarchy ; and now, in
1793, the partizans of Louis Capet alledge
that clubs and mobs do every thing, againll
law, and the voice of the nation ; but we
believe, that those clubs and mobs are the
nation itfelf.
If we believe the various declaiiners a
£ainft the French, the decapitation of their
late king was the moll arbitrary, the mod:
bale, bloody, cruel, horrid, ferocious,
murderous action that is mentioned in the
annals of mankind, or that ever disgraced
any people or country. Tht fuchafferti
ons Ihould be advanced among a gang ot
the molt ignorant beings in the creation,
who had never read a page, nor heard ot
cruelty, would not have been fnrprizing—
but that such absurdities fliould be printed
is truly ridiculous, for it pre-fuppofes a
capacity to read, which, to every cool re
flecting perlon, mull be a fuffie.ent anti
dote to repel the poison and fury which it
was withed they Ihould indil : Thus, the
enemies to the rights of man, alio flew
themlelves inimical to common sense : But
in one thing, they have shewn a portion of
knowledge, in beingfenfible that the ef
fects of their favourite governments are
not yet so perfectly eradicated, but that
there are 110 affections, however absurd
and contradictory they may be, but what
By P. FRENEAU: Publi/hed Wednesdays nn.i Satosdays, ai Three Doiurj
WEDNESDAY, May 15, 1793.
will have many advocates. —Let them be
combated with faits a.id with reason, not
witli violence.
Fel low-citizens, it is not my intention tngo
into the minutiaot tilings,nor even cur on v
to take a view of" ail the ..ppiicable circtn. -
ihnces which might be adduced fioio bil
tory, to prove, that in every nation, o,
tv hich we have circumflantial initiatives,
the French people, and legislators of the
pref;nt cby. have been exceeded in ill eg .
and cruel aits ; the innumerable facts 11:
I upport of what 1 f..y. a: (o notorious tc
readers of history, that it would be almoi:
as great an in u.t to your underllandings tc
attempt an enumeration ot them, as it is 11
the ido.aters ot kings, to advance such wil
ful f alfelioods, in ur.er to influence the
minds of the uninformed. But it may no.
fie amif-. jolt to query ; —h ve you evei
read of :h-many bloody battles, aiialfim
tions, pOi(uni:igi, cruiades : g.inlf relig.on.
ind malUcres—of the m ny absurd and in:
"nousdecilions of the different tribunals
3". France, when governed by her darlino
-.'•if, —lfyouhave, why so boldly aflVrt
■ hat fuc.i illegil proceedings iiad never clif
jraced taac Kingdom ? Why so b.ockcci
>vhy so indignant at the fillies of an tnra
£ed and long injured people ? V\ hy—fay
.is advocates, because he wasfo good a
King, so generous, la co 'plaifant to tile
'.v lilies of Ins people: Beci.ufe it was so hare:
thus to treat one, v ho was ever brought
up in the molt delicate manner—so horrm
an att to commit regicide, elpecially on .1
pei ion of fuc J1 all ancient race as Louis the
XVltii, whole ancellors had fat upon the
throne 10. many centuries, tha. every out
iiult Ihudder at tlie thought, unless he be
duelled 0; all tender feeling;, a mere ty
£er —Ah ! thi i the language of the ene
mies ot progreatve liberty tue secret 01
the a - , Jnends ot defpotii'm ;
iiu n not- -it , ,10 criterion of a tendei
■"•art, to be of their sentiments ;
of I ouis was cnietty negative —tn.it is
he was i.i a lituaiion to do much evil, anc
lie did not do ail the evil he could ; to
wiiom vvos he generous ? 1 o his courtier:
no uoubr--or. trum « lie ce drew he the
i' nice ii hi;generoiity r From the oppref
ieti of nib country : V\ as ne ioiicitous tc
anticipate the uifhes of the nation? Hi:
.0 .duct denies it ; the lumerous difputti
witii the parliaments during tile molt pari
ut his re.gn, and the imprilonmcnt or ba
nilhment 01 all who si. inly opp .fed his e
tlifts, deny it j thepjit lie look with the
people a few years ago u -111 order to o
bf ge certain pri v if ged pt rfons to p ay t: x
, winch might enable liimand h l3 favou
rites to riot 1 additional excels, lie wai
drawn from liep to {lep, because he die
not know where to flop fecnrely. Tokil
irking, is like kill. :g another man, it i:
murder, ifyoi, beluve that you can fafelj
bring him to jnllice in my uther manner ;
but 111 propoi tion as an offender is elevatec
ab .ve the common rank, so much oitner i:
it jul.ifiabic to inflict dentil, because it is ir
tlie fame degr e more difficult to pumlii 01
to fecwre them in ai.y otlier manner; aut
vice versa.
A firm persuasion of the propriety of thi:
doctrine, has decided me in favour of thi
refutation ot the convention, 111 pre erenct
toimprifonment, and has induced me 11
this essay, to e uleavuur to inculcate it.—
To make humanity, juftiee, and policj
harmo.i ze. would be, perhaps, tue per
le. ioil'(i penal laws; indeed, it is believ
ed that tney are infep 1 abie that jultice
and true policy wili arways be fubfervieni
to humanity ; but, among people who ad
mit of felf-defencc, humanity is fublervi
ent to lelr preservation. I'ut to return tc
the ariftoci at c ideas. He was come ot fuel
an ancient and iiluftriousrace 1 True—five
or lix thousand years old at lealt, like the
relt of mankind, and like the relt of man
kind,he had probably fotue worthy ancellors
but he was also the descendant of the am
bitious, bigottedLouisXlV, the descend
ant of the bigotted, the murderous affaflin.
Charles IX, who, 011 St. Bartholomew'!
day, gave his all'ent to the mafl'acre 01
thirty thousand of his fubjeOs; the de
fcenda't 01 Hugh Capet, who was, by thi
noblt s, placed 011 the throne of France
without tiie consent of the people; this is
written from memory alone, had I nov
the afliitance of books, a catalogue of hi
infamous progenitors need not have clofecl
so oon. Whether it is right or wrong, 1
am not certain, but I have always set a
liigh v: lue upon a virtuous anceltry, and
if upon equal terms, fhotild prefer a person
I'd clefcended, to another whose lii)eag<
was unknown, and flill more l'o, if known
to be bad : Has Louis any thing to boast
of ,n this nfpec> ? His anct-ftors, placed i:;
a conspicuous Itation, where they iiiigh
iiave done much good, have, as long as
they have been known, cillj'layec] negative
v irtues an-d attue vices ; from the time
that they have been seated oh the Frenc),
throne, now eight or nine hundied yea, s.
they have been gr; Iping more power, ant!
becoming more ablolnte; what theygain
o of til- m bits they did not give to tht
people.
Now , afi *v words to the English, a peo
pie whom J elleem in many refpetts, s
people of many vices and much partiality.
I have already carried this eii'ay to thret
tin.es the lengthorigirially intended, there
lore a thonfand enormities, each of then
qual at lealt to the cutting off the head o:
Charles ili. (hall be palled over, and o
ill the kings and queens «f their island, uhi
na\e been driven into banifliment, private
ly aflaiiinated, or publicly executed, I Ihal
ax only on trie fate of Mary, Queen o:
■>COtS.
It the conduct of Elizabeth, queen o:
i.n.,land, towards her coulin, tan bt
ded. or is capable of any palliation,
fom wife men have thought, upon the
jrefumption that it was neceii'ary for the
mefervation ol theftate. how much mor«
orcibiy ~lay the fame reason be applied ir
.lie cafe o. L- uis Caput ! And w hctlier tht
ondart ot Elizabeth can i.-t delendtd 01
• otis altogether immaterial j the fact is.
Hid when v\e recoiiect the measures uftt
)y that woman of bltfled memory, as tht
, .nglilii tail her, upon iiti learned, crown
rd, beautiful female i t latiou, the ridicn
oils prejudices, iiiconliltciicy, a.id appa
- ;it igiioraiue of molt of the Britilh wri
ters and fpiaku i supon the fubjeft of French
tfairs are tiuiy dilgufting.
Let us now look at home- Our Ameri
an id Olivers ol monarchy and its atieadan!
, res, endeavour 10 i j-iti us v it, . n »>.
jinion, that gratitude den, nds otii iit;ei
;letilt.ition ot the french. became Lour
-ili:ted lit in the late revolution :M , k the
nconliltency ! An utter deteltation of a
jeopie for their republicamfih. betaufe ihe
jbjeet 01 their anger had been instrumental
II eltablilhiiig a repuolic ! Bu more ol it
jy and by. ,»
Xnthe former part of this effay,l mention
ed the behaviour offoine of the inhabitants
,il ihe ealtern llates ; I now find the lame
iilpolition is creeping fouth-weftard ; the
two 1 alt r.umners ot the Delaware Gazette
printed in Wilmington, have fallen i,.(c
my hands , in one of them, a writer, who
[ignsfu.,<felf a Delaware Citizen, has giv
en a compleat apotheolis of Louis Capet ;
in the other, the Subscriber, as he ligns
himfelf, almost as compieatly enrolls the
Citizen's ideas among the divine illumina
tions*: 1 do not kno a what ge tlemen are
the writers of those two pieces, but hope,
for the honor o the Delaware ltate, that
they are both written by the fame hand.
I mail not, like the Subscriber, pledge
myfelf t„ prove the perfect innocence and
limb l.k di polition of either party in
France; on the contrary, I believe that
excelles have oeen committed as well 0,.
the part of the people, as on that of their
kings, or at lealt w hat might be called so
in the common ot.urrences of life ; but
in the preient liate ol society you have n,
right to expect any tiling Ids, and more
elpetially in a country, where you fa,
there is no sense of religion, of moral du
ties, nor of civil r ghis. Admitti g this
accufationo: 'general depravity to be true,
it is a very ,iro ig argument to pro\e the
infulhtienty and villainy oi the former go
vemment and religion The d fpofition
ot a man is not formed in a day, and much
time is required to divelt him ol evil, fe
rocious, habits ■, the vices ot the present
inhabitants ol France are, as far as the)
depend on government, the offspring o'
the ancient laws, man ers ana religion,
then, i; a people who might have been fa
iliioned, or \sho were lallnoued by tht
hand, and to the w ilh of the government
and religion, ire the most bale murderou;
rienas in the universe, it is a poor comment
on that government and that religion in
deed, and Ihews the necessity of a reform,
which, among warriors, must neceliarilj
be accompanied with " confufed noises,
and garments rolled in blood."
But to , eturn to the Delaware Citizen ;
ne ulliers in his piece with afciap of La
tin ; had I an acquaintante with that lan
guage, I too, might have cholen lor my
.elf ome prjtty plirafe or liirrhfiiant ex
ellionfroin one of the claflics. in order
,11 (hew my 'cholarlhip ; but as things are,
[Total No. 161.]
f tliere must be fume Latin in my eflay, X
(hail be obliged to content myfelf with an
adoption of his quotation ; —" Cum ingra«
luni dixeris, omnia tlixifti"—and to avail
m>fell oi his tranfl. l tion, but cannot help
applying them very differently : He charg
es with ingratitude, such Americans as do
not cxprcls a lively concern at the loss of
Louis XVI, and join in execratirg the
French Nation for putting him to death,
ami purely upon this account, that when
he was king of Franco, he ordered his
troops to fight for America against his old,
>nveter3ie euemies* He, the Citizen, is
extravagant in his prailes of our Congrtfa
in '7/8, in order to bring forward a quo
cation from their minutes, to prove t!: ;t is
was not interelfesl motives alone that in
duced him to do so. Ihe N..ticn.il Con
vention of France being a lime removed
from the time of action, and yet not so far,
but thai many of them were personally ac
quainted with the king and the mimlters of 1
the day, are surely more capable of judg
ing ot the motives of action, than the Con-»
grefs of the United States ; but h -d the
Congress known the true caufts of the af
filtance given u by the French king, y,Hit
would have been extren eiy impolitic at
that critical moment to have nientk id
them: That the heart of Louis X\ I was
penetrated with a sense of the ti .hts of
man, a? we held them in the ye | 1778,
there is no good reason to believe j-but on
the contra!}, that his motives were chiefly,
if not wholly the offspring of felf love of
hatred to Cleat-Britain; refpefting this
matter, is the inconliftency alluded to a
vvlule ago. Some of the fame men, who
now talk as the Citizen, of the gratitude
due to Louis, did, in the yrar 1778 and
'?79''P e akin a very different manner j
tluy (aid that the buik ot the individuals of
the French nation are enthufiaftit in favor
of w hat you call liberty, yet the court of
V erfailles has no intention of folfering fu. rt
notions, indeed, it is scarcely cliargeaL. e
111 this inftai ie with their ufi.al perfu , I,uf
nels, for your agents have abfolutel) fold
the country to tlie French, and foirie of"
them pretended that the cererr ony ot de
livery wasaciually executed at Cht-fltr, "n
the year 1778 —dreams are sometimes tri v,
lometimes falfe, and sometimes a mixture,
not altogether true nor altogether falfe,
so were the assertions of those Del: ware
C tizem. Now you, the citizens of Ame.
Rica, who vilify the French people for the
l-ke of the king, ycu may fully take to
yourselves a very heavy charge, that is,
every species of baseness, when you psy
I lint r 1 honours to a man. who w or,ld not,
for a fiugle season have refilled hip-felt" the
luxuries oi the table, nor the atnu.ements
of the theatre for the lake of you cause ;
whillt you brand with villainous epithet;',
tlioufaiids ot soldiers who, leavi their
native country, braved the dai. firs of the
Tea and even death itfelf, in ord< ■ to pre-
I'erve your fieedom ; for. as fystl ■ De
laware Citizen—" Cum ingrauim i.ixei is,
omnia dixilli —Tax a man with inj'ra.
titude. and you aacufe him of every spe
cies of baseness.
If, in contemplating the king, you for
get hisfaults. or if you fee his faults a d
orgive them because of his offce, yoi are
-till under the influenci of the magic of the
ceptre. \ou lay the person ot the ki >g
was inv iolable, or atmofl the greattfl pti
lilhmept could only have been ail exptillioil
from the throne; there lliould be no rt trot
pcctive law : To this I answer as above,
and it the conllituent afl'eu by did m: ke a
constitution so contrary to reason, as to al
>w any individual for a tin e, the power*
o. committing the molt horrid crimes witlj
impunity, yet the voice of nature will not
cr demn the injured from standing in his
>wn defence. But even admitting vhat the
execution of Louis Capet was altogether
arbitrary, conhder, before you grow loud
>n your fpecul. tive censure, whether yorr
mod f.,vourite govei nraents have not b it
guilty of the like. Jll certain fitvat .< »- it
has been ,lie practice of all govern, cms,
even thole of Great-Britain "and the Uni
ted States to ast arbitrarily, and to make
what they conceived to be the law ne
ceflity, paramount to all wriitf 11 law.
Witness theprefa-gangs in England, wit
ness your imprisonment and bainnimeoi of
divers refpeitable inhabitants of Philadel
phia, in tile year 1777, without any form ef
rrial, or attempt to prove any charge a
gainit them, hut upon the bare furn ife that
they were dilafftctcd in mind to the revo-
The reader will recollect try ideas and
definition of j>ity,Jevfil/ility and gratitude,
in the firJi part of this di/i urje.Intion ; many other arbitrary proceedings,
even to (I ach, might be produced in this
country during the revolution, both on the
part oi' t ie Britilh and A uerica.is ; yet you
would ftin palm on the popu.ace, and one
another, an opinion, that the execution of
Louis Cap t was t.ie only arbitrary pro
ceeding ever hear 1 of. Americans, exe
crators of the French Republic—were you
for the American R volution or not?—li
you were, con.emptibie are your iilferii
ons, inconsistent your conduct; you have
punished with severity, even where tilt
culpability was doubtful; you nave threat
ened vith great inflexibility tile life of the
innocent ; and yo < hive pursued with the
rage a id li ltred of a iirui. igham mob, and
burnt i i effigy a man oecaufe he deserted
yourciufe; and yet you exclaim againlt
the Fren. h for executing a nr n whom they
conceived to be fairly accused of treaion
agai ilt the ll.ite.
Of all the cases reco ded in history, per
haps there is none so ex.i Hy limila. to ill it
of Louis XVI. as one which has happened
in our own time a id country; similar in
almost ev.'i'v thing except that Louis was
ltop'd at V irennes, a.rtl is dead, but his
prototy. escaped to the enemy and is pro
bably lti.i living. Borh did in real.ty, con
tribute to the progress of iiberty ; both had
honors a id office conferred upon them by
their country ; bo:h made pretences of tin -
cerity in clie ciufe of freedom, whilst tlie'y
secretly held conferences with and favour
ed the e.iemy , both attempted b> flight to
cfcape to the invaders of their con. tr_v ;
a id both pleaded inviolability on account
of their offi e. By the remar . ble liniili
amy of this lad circumftaiice, you will per
ceive, that this apoltate from freedom,
this traitor to his country, this p, ototvpe
of Louis Capet, i» B. ncdict Arnold. i tr
h.ip . time has cha tged your sentiments With
relpe:t to the henioufnefs of his behaviour,
bu you ought to measure the proceedings
o the French republic by the op lions
•which p. evailed in this country at that pe
riod. Remaps some of you were then in
arms against this country, and appro ed of
his co ljlucl—it to, speak out ; it' not, be
comi 'rent ; jtiftice is inflex ble. mercy is
impartial, truth is eternal, and right piin
ciples change not either with time or cir
cumttances. If you execrate the judges of
Lonis, you mud juitify Benedict—ll you
abhor the conduit of Arnold, you mud ex
cuse tiie execuiion of Capet.
Fellow Citizens, can you yet be blind to
your own severities, and eagle eye'd to
those of your friends ? Are you acqu linted
with the history of the American revo.u
tion? Did you ever learn the history of
Andre.' Were yin ever informed of the
story of Afgil ? Was Lonis more amiab e
th i i A ldre, whom a 1 his enemies admired?
Was Louis more i nnoce.it than Afgil. >\ ho
was not even accused of a crime ? and yet
th- ft. ere t i nee of a court martial was
th->light uecellary, and executed in the cafe
of Ancjre, and the rigid spirit of retaliation
eve ■ upon the innocent, was deliberately
pursued i i the cafe of Afgil—yes, it was
deliberately pursued by the man who i 3 now
the President of the United States, and it
would no doubt have been put in exeiti
tion had it not been for the humane inter
position of some of the very p uple whom
you no ,v blacken with vill linou , names for
exerciling judgment upon a real culprit —
To conclude,! am ot for fhedd ng of blood,
but on the contrary, my object it-the de
fence of tile viftiin. of arilto ratic fury,
and to recad to the memory of Americans
their own actions in time past. It is true
indeed, that I have always favoured the
purity of republican or democratic senti
ments ; and do believe that if the French
republic :hould continue to exist, it wiil
be i idebted so fnecefi to Heaven, and to
men of the mod rigid principles only.—
Grip all. lose all, is a caut : o lary proverb
much to be recommended in many pu, suit
in c>mno i life; but is by no means fuita
lile to fleet .» great revolution. Do no
thing hy h lives, ihould be the motto of
every .nan who engages in a work of such
a nature and in tgnitude ; to win the horse
or lose thafaddle, a common faying of the
fame fmport, seems to be the resolution of
the French nation ; a resolution juftifiable,
not only as it affects poflerity, but alio by
the powerful, the all-fobduing motive of
felf-prefervation. Had the king been left
ti ion- the throne, I have no doubt but that
iu a (hort time we should have seen without
aly violent concussion, a long and rigid
proscription of all the inoft active friends
of lib rty. Without such men as those
who conder- 1 Andre, we should now be
a province the Bririlh empire ; without
such men i those who condemned Capet,
France would have been as Poland.
I am not of a sanguinary disposition, but
of the contrary. None but kings, or persons
of great influence, Should be judged to
death for any crime whatever. It seems
to me that the infliction of death should not
be an indication of the enormity of a crime
—neither mould the molt henious crimes
be pnnilhed in that way ; becaufj a better
mode of pumihing the offender, of pre
ve iting by example, the line offence in an
other; of making restitution to the inju
red ; and of securing the peace of focietv,
is generally w'thin the power of the com
munity.
In fine, to deprive any martal of that life
which God alone has given, is certainly an
act which very few transgressions can jufii
ty ; perhaps i,i the eyes of the truly religi
ous and philosophic there are none, but if
there be, doubtiefs tliey are only Inch as no
other human contrivance c;m punilli or in
future prevent; or such, against which no
thing but the death of a certain object can
ere it a b.irrier fufficient to le'cure the peace
of the (late. Such are the invalion of our
ciearefl tre'afures by an armed forte j fuc.ii
are the eliorts of a.l oppofs-r of his coun
try, when aided by so many powerful abet
tors that he cannot be otherwise secured—■
Su h were the conduit and situation oi
Louis Capet.
A Citizen of the United States.
May ioth, i • 93.
iwtmi > ■ w
For the National Gazette-
TO THE PUBLIC.
|T HAVE lately received a letter from :
I person of extensive information at Paris
imparting much good advice, in reflect t<
the conduct the American governmeni
fllould observe at this crilis ; a governmeni
to which 1 f eel myfelf highly attached, ;>nt
wifli all poflible profperiiy and fiiccefs. —1
extract a few of the leading ideas, anc
every impartial man to judge what
effect they ought to have ujton us at thi:
time.
The Americans cannot be too circnm
fjie-t in their reception of Citizen Genet,
minister from tlie republic of France ; a
republic that has not yet been acknowledg
ed a fnch bv the great maritime powers o
Europe ; the 1 annexions now forminc
with France, might be attended with the
molt fatal corifequences to this country
particularly if we should give umbrage t<
thole powers by 100 oitentatious marks 01
preference shewn to M. Genet The alli
ance of Americ a with France, would b;
no means excule such partiality, or coun
tenance an attention tnal was not paid tc
Irrs predecefior, or other ministers.
It is very poflible that t'<e government oj
France is already changed since the depar
ture of citizen Genet, and even that the
royil government is re ellablifhed. Ii
fucli cafe 1 would ask, in what light the;
would view such a glaring m inif'eitation oi
opinions in America. 10 contrary to even
expectation? Can it be thoug it that the
great maritime powers would not unite tc
pjnilh this country by compelling her tc
hear her part of the expences of the war
I will leave every ration.-l mind to judge
whether this would not probably be the
cafe.
It is my fincerehnpe that thepublicaiior
of these hints, wiil set our official character:
a thinking on the fubjeft. I would have
waited on them perfunally to communicate
these ideas, but urgent business has pre
vented me. My political religion is known
to many in this country, and altho' m\
opinions may not be precisely the fame wit'
the greater part of your republicans, yet I
can allure the public I am a friend to theii
government, and to the happiness of ever)
individual.
HONES rus.
Philad. May 14.
FOREIGN ADVICES.
LONDON, March 12 —23
" 1 he fpirii oi the people (fays Hume]
inuft irequently be rot-fed, in order to curl
the ambition oi the court : and the dreaci
at rouling this spirit, 1 nil it be employed t
prevent that ambition. Nothing, is' so ef
e&ual to this purpose as the liberty of the
press, by e.hichall tlie learning, wit. anc
genius of the nation may be employed on
thfc fide of freedom, and every one be ani
mated to it* defence. As long, therefore,
is the republican part of our government
:an maintain itfelf igiinft the monarchical,
t will naturally be careful to keep the
press open, as of importance to its own
preservation."
Upwards of 600 persons aflembled on
Saturday hit at the Crown and Anchor
raveru, to support tiie liberty of the press.
Previous to the dinner,
Richard Brinfley Sheridan, Esq. the
chairman, read an addrefsfrom the friend*
:>f the people 111 Southwark, in which that
ocieiy highly applauded the principles anc!
practice of the friends to the liberty of
the press, conjuring them to proceed wit!
lirmnefs and with temperance, until their
great object should be accomplished.
With regard to entering into a fubferip
tion for supporting the • ppi efled, Mr. She
ridan said, it was not intended that the
fubferiptior. should take place, on this day,
but immediately afterwards.
Mr. Courtney, M. P. trnfted, that the
focjety would support rhofe whom govern
ment had oppressed, on account of their
having dared to exen ife the freedom of opi
nion : he mentioned the following circuni
(tance, to prove the extreme ignorance of
b Jlad fingers as well as bill flickers : "P:if
ling thro' a street. he heard a ballad fing
er abusing Mr. Thomas Paine in a long.
He told iiim he was acting in atreafonable
manner." The man replied, " that he
thought he had a right to abuse Mr
Paine." '• Not at all," rejoined Mr Court
ney, '-government has declared, that hi
name shall not be mentioned, and if you
tig that song again, I will fe ;d for a con
{table; ami take you up." f lie man pvo
mifecl never tomention-tlie na:,.e ot Paine
again.
Mr. Grey (P. 51.) informed the meeting,
that he had received a petition from Mr
Thomp on, a'bookfeller at Birmingham,
who. before the fecoiid part of tiie Rights of
Jvlan was declared a libel, was taken up
for felling it, and directed to give bad for
.'oool. his friends ottered unexceptionable
ba 1 for 1500!. Being 11.able to procure
t'nis bail,'he was sent to the felon's iide of
Warwick jail, \\ here he iio.v remains.—
(A general shout of indignation pervaded
the wlioie meeting.)
After dinner, Mr. Sheridan gave as a
toast, " the liberry of the press,'' which
was received with loud plaudits, and ac
c<.mpanied with three times three. He
then proposed the health of Mr. Erfkine,
which was also drank with three times
three.
Mr. Erfkine immediately nddrefTed the
'.flembly. tie congratulated them 011 the
arninef* and temperance of their conduit,
and exprefled hisfr.risfaction at feeing such
a number of persons, so refpe£table for
their talents and their characters. He de
clared that he did not expect that half the
numner would liave been present, for he
knew that artifices and menaces had been
used to keep persons away. The minister
was d with the present meeting.
He reprob '.ted it, and therefore they might
reft allured, that they herein the right."
Mr. Sheridan then gave the health of
Mr. Fox, the author of the libel bill.
It was drank with much applause, and
three times three. He then pro: ofed that
the friends of the liberty ot the press fhoulci
meet'ngain on the 20th o: April, and that
Mr. Grey Ihoukt be requeued to take the
chair. Ihe proposal was received with
loud plaudits.
Mr. Grey returned thanks to the com
pany for the Junior they had conerred on
him. He adored them, that he li.ould stu
dy to deserve their favor, and to merit
their approbation Having mentioned the
cafeotMr. fhompfon before dinner, he
proceeded to state another cafe, which he
liad begun to mention when the companj
were summoned to dinner . It was that lii
Thomas Handifide, a day laborer, who.
because in a public house he merely f ok
out of his pocket Mr. Paine'sktter to Mr.
Dundas, was immediately carried before a
jliltlce of peace, and ordered to give bail
tor 200 c] Being, as was expetted* unable
to give fucii bail, he was actually hand
cuffed like a common criminal, carried tc
1 loathsome jail, and chained by the leg as
:lioughhe had been a murderer : his hands
were swelled and rendered useless by the
areHure of the irons, r figics, he said,
lad been prepared at Dunley in Worcef
erlhire, of Mr Priefllv and Mr. Paine,
Tl.ey were filled .with blood and Iheep' 1 !
learts were aflually placed within. At
:er undergoing the usual fiifpenfion, thev
were taken down, 3nd the rabble, armec
a ith daggers, wtre indrufted to plunge
:hem in the hearts, and to exult in the
'l"rious deed they had at. hieved, while
he blood was iffning from the wount
liich they had inflicted. Theyafterward:
>araded with the hearts ;luck upon pikes.
Here a sudden burst of indignation a!
his abominable transaction proceeded
Vom tiie society, which interrupted Mr,
ijrey for a conliderable time. Mr.
oncluded by observing, that when inei
,vere familiarized to such scenes, the)
Lvould not hesitate to direct their dagger:
igainll the present i.dminiftration with a;
liuch willingnef as ag;.inft these objeits oj
heir ignorant displeasure.
Copy of a letter from Gen. Dumourier
dated < t Tirleniout, March 19. to the
Minister of war.
•' It is with great pain, citizen minister
hat 1 communicate to you an account 01
:he check which I have received. or
1111 ft have seen, bymy letters of yeflcrday.
hat my presentiments are but too truly jul
ified, 011 account of the news which I have
•eceived <vf the dangers at Namur, in the
ipproach of a corps of about 10,000 men.
,\ho dire£ted thetnfelves towards BruHellf
ind Louvain. I had doubts that it would
lot have been in my power to preserve tin
niblic good, without dislodging the enemy
.0111 the camp of IServengen. I have
made, in consequence, an attack on the left
vving of the enemy; my centre ri'vifion
made their attack on Nei vengen, and my
left, commanded by Miranda and Lhamp
morin, attacked 011 the viilage—The right,
and the centre of the armv had feme fuc
i ess, although the infantry was twice re
pulsed, and driven from the village of Ner
vengen. The left wing proving unfortu
nate, their retreat was made with confu
iion till behind Tirlemont, or perhvps a
little further. The Marefial de Cant
Mielen was killed, who commanded the
artillery, and two general officers \ver<
wounded in this flight, and fundi y pieces of
cannon taken, amongst which there were
three 12 pounders.
I was ignorant of this derargeinent, and
I had prepared an attack for to-morrow to
complete victory. And uneasy at not hear
ing from Miranda, and hearing murmur?
that he had retired, I quitted the victori
ous part ot the field in the evening, to learn
the fitiuuiojj of the left w ing, and was as
tonilhed net to find -P'o nf Hi? corps on my
way to Tiilemout. Jg: lers to Mi
rand lto rr-funie his p.. on the neWits of
St. Margarita, to Cov the retreat.
I lend you, citizen -;ter, a letter f.-om
Vidlence, who was wounded; and who is
now Oil his way ,<> BrulH-lls. I amgoin e
hick to the camp oi' Louvain to cover
Brulk'lls and M.dines. I cannot diffimn
late that tbee\:l of dilbrganization is at its
height. I fear lor the event of this re
treat, in a country, where we have a^ ra .
vaced the inhabitants, by pillage and the in
discipline of the troops. 1 will do all 1 can
to lave the army, who place in me the tu
rn >ft confidence, and I will abide by their
judgments.' I will submit myfelf to the
molt severe examination, and I will de
mand a court martial to judge of my con
duct. Too happy if the facrifice of my
life can be ot ut.lity to the glorious cause
of liberty ! and I ihall fight till i die, or am
condemned by the patriot:. I fear not the
judgment of my fellow-citizens, or the re
proach of posterity. You ,11 fee that our
loss has been considerable, about 2000 men
I mull pass the utmofl pr..Te on the bravest
soldiers in the unit erse, but \vc are in want
of experienced officers. 1 propose a fup
prellion of th ■ mode of elefling them —
This mode gives neither talents nor confi
dence, and will never produce subordina
tion."
PHILADELPHIA.
Wednesday, May ij.
Oi Saturday lass arrived Tit New York
aveffel in 35 days from Hofjand. which
brings Amflerdam accounts to the 4th of
April. According to these the French had
completely evacuated Brabant, and retired
into b ranee, where great disturbances had
tLiken place from infurrettions in different
parts. Ihe Leyden Courant mentions,
that the French in their feverai engage
ments. from the 15th to the 22d, oi March
had loft from 30 to 43,000 men—Louvain
was left by them on the 23d, and on the
24th BruUels, where the Auftrians entered
on the 25th— On the 26th Antwerp was gi
ven upby capitulation. It was also report
ed that the French h d abandoned Bruges,
and that the Auftrians had taken pofleflion
of Mons, w here they had thfir head quar
ter: —Breda and Gertrnyde? berg were
blocked up by the Aullrian:;, but had not
capitulated.
011 Sunday last arrived here the ship
Morning Star, captain Ken. from Havre
de Grace, w huh li e left the 27th of March.
By t .is vessel we le3rn, that the accounts
heretofore received, of a counter-revolu
tion at Paris, and of the capture of Amster
dam bv the French, are premature —A
body of French forces, however, flill re
mained in Holland, and reinforcements to
the amount of-o.oco men had marched to
the French armies. The people of France
were very unanimous and deteimined,
notwithstanding the check which General
Dumourier lately experienced ; and there
appeared no doubt of their beii.g able to
' efeat the intentions of iheir enemies.—
On the fame day came into this port, the
(hip William, of Glasgow, captured bj the
privateer Citizen' Genet, «fl Gape Charles,
about twelve days ago. She was I ound to
the Potowmac, and is the firff veflel cap
turid by the above, which privateer is out
of Charleston with a French con m ffion.
The bed account yet 1 eceived, oi tht fitu
aiion of the French and con billed armies,
is contained in General Drmourier's let
ter. Miranda, who commanded the left,
bl nit d for the whole ot the late check
which has been experienced by the army
of the republic, and he is fufpeuded. Va- ,
ience has been wounded, and Cuftine's ar
my are goirg 011 with great success in the
country near Mayence. So iar from this
theck dilpiritirg the republic, an army of
leventy thotifand men were marching from
Paris to re-inforce C en. Dun mirier. The
queen and princess Elizabeth, together with
the youngprince, were (till fafe in tiie tem
ple, and treated with great civility. No
mention whatever w as made ot a: v inten
tion ii; the national councils, to bring the
tjueento atrial. With refpeft to internal
[liCcontents, they are not nearly of so dan
gerous a nature as has been leprelented,
for evr. the a iflocrats fpole dcti rniined
y against Inbniitting to any kind of a coun
ter-revolution.
W T e hear that Mr. Hammond, the Bri
tish minister, has preferred a memorial to
our execui've. relative to the capture of
the 1 nglifh fliip C range.
Fresh disturbances"are broke out in the
.(land of Martiuico between the patriotic
and arillocratic parties ; the latter ot which
had net wholly, it fetms, (hipped them
selves off to Trinidada, as reported. Se
veral deaths have taken place in confe
quciice of these < flievrors ; am' it was
strongly fufpefted th.e aristocrats ha<l fo
'icited the protection of the Engli lb, whom
they mean, if possible, to put in pollellion
of the island.
We ate afiiired tliEt the ple
nipotentiary t the court of V. has
negociated a treaty by w 1 ch t n«- navigati
on of the MiPitippi i> grr.rtec! i» the fit
zens of the I'nitcd ot: -e-.A ;rAt variety of accounts irom France,
meritio.i the detection of a plot of a coun
ter revolution in different parts of that
kingdom—the heads of this conspiracy are
the brothers of Louis Capet, the oid nobili
tv, the refractory prlelts, some merchants
of overgrown wealth, and a part of the
: nglilh' parliament, particularly Pitt,
Burke, and Grenville, in concert with the
duke ofßrunfwick. The principal means
to effect this counter revolution, was the
emiflion of falfe afliguats. Conliderable
numbersof the conspirators have been ta
ken up. and if Meifieurs Pitt, Burke, and
Grenvilie are not among the number, more
is the pity " Those who have disdained
the sovereignty of the French nation will
soon fall on their knees before the sove
reignty ot mankind all ovei the earth.
In May last, Tinpoo Saib renewed his
wars with the English fortes in the i.all
Indies. A particular disastrous event to
the latter, in which many hundreds of
them were drowned and destroyed by Tip
poo's having secretly turned the courfc of
a river ; and his having m.ulean attack at
the l ime time, lrid compelled the Fnglilh
to ask a truce for lix months, which was
granted on their paying thirty millions—
in two months after Tippoo broke this
treaty and at the head of 500,000 men was
preparing to attack Madrafs. t Aii Rritifh
commercial houses in Bengal had tailed,
and trade totally at a stand.
The empress of Rnflia has ilfued amani
feflo igii ift the French, dated St. Peterf
biirgh, 25th of February, whereby she pro
hi bit > her subjeCts from all connexion and
intercom few ith a nation that have dipped
their hands in royal blood, &c. the far
mer treaty made with Louis the 16th is
annulled, till the restoration of monarchy—
no Fre-ich ll.ip* under the republican flag
are to be received into Ruffian ports, and
no Ruffian (hips are to enter the ports of
France—nil French conluls. merchants,
teachers, &c See. to leave Russia in three
weeks—all Ruffian consuls, &c. to leave
France immediately. Xo liberty ot remain
ing in Rnffia is granted the French, except
those who (hail take a moildegrading oath,
promising eternal fidelity to the old mo
narchy of France, an acknowledgment
that the country is now in a state of rebel
lion : p. promise to hold no connection with
the revolutionists, &c. &c. &c.
It is observable in reading the English
debates on peace or war with £ ranee, that
one jrrcat objection to negotiation, was t le
supposed at'iei/m of the' French nation—
«■ if this argument had any force in ii (fay
one of their writers) why does the Englii!
government fend an emoaffy to China;
the governors of which countt-y, according
to Mr. Hume, are the only regular bod>
of Atheiftsin the world being the defci
ples of Confucius, and having no priests or
religious eft iblilhments whatever ! and ye
China is an orderly, moral, and what i
ft ill more remarkable, a pacific empire.—
Perhaps French irreligion is the more i -
lifted upon at this time, as the claims ot
kings in the prefenftdifpute are now again
pretended to be derived, not of compa:t &
from human right, but from right-divine ;
which right, it is clear, would fail before
an infidel tribunal. Another objection
made to treating with the French, is their
couelty ; but this appears to be noobftrnc
tion to treating with the Algerines ; who
altho' the cruellest and molt sanguinary
miscreants in the universe, are yet at all
tinees the gv,od fiiends and allies of the
Englifli."
Extrad of a letter from Maryland.
" A similarity in the manners of the ill -
Ii abitants of th« several states i» a circum
stance ve-ry desirable. as nothing would
tend to cement uj together, and make us
anxious to promote those mcafures which
would conduce to the welfare of the Uni
ted States. I have frequently thought
that a general fyltem of education might
be formed, which wou'd promote this
more than any other plan If some per
sons of ability would undertake to compile
books for this purpose, by which repub
lican sentiments, a veneration for liberty
and equality, ihould be inculcated, good
principles would be laid ill the infant breall.
one' as they would be confirmed in their
truth by after reason, nothing would be
able to eradicate thrill. Persons who
would undertake this, would merit 110
less" from their country, in my opinion,
than the mod celebrated of our fokiiers or
ftatefinen."
Extra t of a letter from Ne-w York.
" A copy of verses, entitled The Captive
King, has been published and avowed a
his own by Peter Pindar, in a barren, whi
ning, hypocritical strain, bemoaning th;
death of Louis the 16th, and reflecting on
the national sentence. Such a production
well accords with the libe: ality of a man.
who some years ago published to his ooun
trymen, that in the free and independent
republics of America, " every scoundrel
co.'tviil was akitig."—lt is remarkable, to
the disgrace of genius, that 1110 ft of the
Englifnpoets ha\'c ever been sycophants,
hangers on, and time-servers to court. —
Peter Pindar, ultimately. does not appear
to be an exception, notwithstanding he for
merly filled his purse by ridiculing his
yo'or ki ig.—May the times advance when
the divine fpifit of "poetry wii'l only be
fubflfryieut to the advancement of mora
lity and republican virtue."
Extratl of a letter from Birmingham,
March 15.
When once the old lion is down, every
Jack-ass mult have a kick at him !—After
Pom Paine had been butchered ill every
petty village in the kingdom, it would
have been a miracle indeed had he saved
his bacon at Birmingham. The loyal mob
of levellers there (since the late riots it
would be injustice to deny them the title),
lately dressed up a very ufeful piece of fur
niture, which may be seen in every bar
ber's liiop, and having plated the Rights of
Man in one hand, and a pair of itays, em
blematical wc suppose of " The Rights of
Women," in the other, they named it
Thomas Paine, and carried it in triumph
through the principal llreets, attended by
an innumerable concourse of men, women
and children. The pious rabble, no lef
zealous in the cause of church than king,
made an excellent (liift upon the occasion,
to pitch up a very decent p iir of parsons
of a pair of chimney sweepers, whom in a
moment they converted into right reve
rend Doctors, by clapping upon each qf
their polls only an enormous orthodox
wig, wlierein, tney conceived, all the di
vinity of cert in perfonseonlilts, and which
so enveloped tiiele worthy gentlemen, al
ready in bla.k, that, like I'ome oi their bet
ters, they resembled wolves in sheep's
cloathi.ig. These new dubbed lons o the
Birmingham ciuirt:., attended the unfortu
nate culprit to the plate of execution, ex
hort:;. g, preachi.ig r d praying; and fc
incomparably d d they a<St the blaiphemouf
farce, that we iiiould not be surprised if a
couple of mitres ..a be the immediate
reward of their piety and loyalty I A - 01
the poor wig block, it behaved with the
moil hardened ii ptnitence, and feemec
11 terly infenlible of its unhappy (ituation j
. 1 -y, even when lir.rig upon the gallows,
surrounded with flaming faggots, it had the
imj. ...le.'cr to I r ale the rope, and tumble
down upon the heads of the executioners,
but, before it could effe£t its escape, wa:
torn in pieces, and throw 1 into the lire b)
the fpiriced poptnace This folenm mock
ery was concluded with-therogues march,
Hid 'God save the king !' What has beei:
related, is only what every body mighl
expect from a Birmingham mob; bin
what we are about to mention, is almoli
>eyond belief ; nordurltwe, without the
nolt indisputable authority for its authen
ticity, venture to fay, that—the rioters dif
,ierfed, without committing any furthei
outrage.
YFrrtni aCorreJ'ponient•]
It is remarkable that the account of the
aiTiffi a; on of Governtur Morris, the
Am r can minister at Pa: is appeared ori
sjin;i Ily in some Engw.li papers only. No
tiling ' \vs in a llro iger light the base
I'irp 'fefo which ma ;y of thole prints are
instituted. It wis luppofed in England
by certain gentlemen behind the curtain
that the 0 ry would eft" £t a sudden vio
lence of re jntment and a, : fs of ho iility ir
America againlt the FreiuhforJuch a /tor
rii, , ami atrocto. s /a^rifice.—
They in England w >11 Id, d.> well ;o learn
tha: the government of the U. St ites ap
points prudent men to her diplomatic em
p! >yme;rts ; and Ihould they act impru
I itly w i:«h "lored with ail official cha
1 r, inliead of our going madly to wai
'or ny in ults off-red aminiller, the pu
innent would be recognized.
\_Froma Correjfu dent in F.Aston
Peanfyla tia. ]
" It is the honourable diffin&ion of the
present age, that it is the reign of reason.
philosophy, and universal toleration.—l]
America has not absolutely led the way ii
illuminating the world, and removing an
cient and pernicious prejudices ; at lead,
it may, with truth be said of her, thai
there is 110 country wherein they are lefi
regarded, either in theory or practice.—
\\ ith respect to religious opinions, there
prevails here an absolute freedom of senti
ment <nd condu£t.—Thus at our public
proceflions, made for the celebration ol e
vents, auspicious to the attainment of uni
versal liberty, we have exhibited to the
world, the noble fpe£tacle, of miniften
and preachers of every denomination, a
well of the christian, as of other religions,
linked arm in arm, in fiaternal enib a e,
id in defiance of those bigotted prejudi
ces which have heretofore diftraited ths
inman race, and made man the enemy of
man —Thus alio in eontempt of former
distinctions, lias the constitution of this (late
reltoreel to every citizen of whatever fe£l
or persuasion, the precious right of electing
and bci lg e'eCted to places of public trust;
j privilege once exclusively enjoyed by
'hose of an eftabliilied religion—But altho'
to the honour of our country, the elective
•Vanchife liai been made the property of
every citizen, we have as yet heard of no
i iftance of any but Chriltians being elected
to public employments, which might lead
to a suspicion that thole illiberal animolities
have Oil) an exigence in the brealts of the
mass of the individuals compoli-ng tiie com
munity, which are disavowed by our public
a£ts—it is with pleal'ure, therefore, we an
nOtrrice, that r!,.; inhabitants of the borflugli
or hafton, in the county of Northampton,
in this If ace,have furnilhed a prdof that the
principles ot our coniiitution are congenial
with the philanthropy of our citizens, by
electing on the firit Monday in th.s month
to the office of a Burgess of this borough,
by a decided majority of votes, Mr. Mi
chael Hart, a worthy and refpe&able
member of the Jewish religion, and an in
habitant of that place." This having beei:
communicated to us bv a correspondent,
we rejoice in publishing lb amiable ant:
ftrii-ung an instance of the victory of reaio:
asd humanity, over a molt rooted religiom
prejudice, which unfortunately iscoeva.
with Chriltianity itfelf.
Eafton, May 13, 1793.
Extract of a letter from Libourne, a vil
lage near Bourdeaux.
'■ After the proclamation of the muni
cipality, tor the recruiting of the army,
the whole of the inhabitants offered to h)
to the liiccoiir of the army, and the zea
»t the citizens is such that the officers can
"t prevent their going. A labourer, aget
55) in consequence ot the indifpolition ol
111s son, marched to the frontiers, until the
re-ellablifhment of his son's health. A
cooper, 60 years of age, v hose daily work
lupported a father and mother, marchet
<0 the frontiers. The Zeal of the gene
rous citizens is beyond example. The
whole ot France i» for liberty or death."
Heads of Intelligence by the lafl arrivals.
Certain accounts are now received oi
the aii. ir of March 18, between theFrencf
ami Aultrians. On that day Dumouriei
was every where victorious, and the enemv
left him pofTelled of the field. His righl
wing was commanded by Gen. Valence,
his centre by Egalite. and his left by Mi
randa and Chanipmorin—the two formei
were fticcefslul, but the latter, in part, de
fei ted their pelts, loling near 2000 men ;
and out of 500, twenty or thirty pieces ol
cannon. The infantry of gen. Valence
was twice repulsed ; he then led on the ca
valry and broke thro* the enemy, receiving
three wounds from a f.ibreonhU head, ai c
a violent blow on his right arm ; one oi
the I'abre wounds laid the'fkin of his fore
head over his eyes; but none of his wounds
were reckoned mortal. Dumourier had
taken a (1 long polition near Lonvain, 15
miles N. K. ot Bruffl'ls, waiting for a re
i .lorcement of 72,000 men, expected dailj
from Paris, to prolecute the war in Bel
gium and Hollaud. Gen. CulVnie hat:
gained great advantages over the Prussians,
1 <1 repulsed them in every quarter where
they hatl attacked him. The Frenth ap
pear to have been no more than equal lofen
in the battle of March 18th; the enem)
uavi ig loil from 1400 to 1800 men ; a con
udcrabl- par: ofValence's troops are said tc
be new recruits, in a great degree stranger:
to discipline. and consequently ealily panic
tlruckby the veterans of Aultria, educated
in the trade of blood and military ferocity.
—London accounts mention the evactjatior
ot Oftend and Bruflels, and the capitnla
tion of Gertruydenberg and Breda on the
part of the French, the garrison being al
lowed the honors of war. Great number:
of prizes had been carried into ditfereni
parts ofFra.ice by privateers, while in F.ng
land scarcely any privateers were fittec
out; every thing being left to the king':
velfels. The lot's of the Austrian force:
lince the commencenienL of war igainll
France under the duke of Brunfwick, hat
been stated , from authority at sixty lix
thousand men, and the loss of liorfes tei:
thousand. I nfurrettions of particnl r bo
dies of people had happened in several
towns thro' aristocratic tineile, part i ularlj
at Nantz, where a number of perfoiij loil
their lives : the insurgents had been de
feated a id dispersed.
Brussels March 22. The French armies
are difpofel in the following manner : —
General Du aourier marches at tlie head
of 50,000 well disciplined men to Liege, to
force the enemy to abandon their preterit
pofttion, and tlrive them if potiible 011 the
other fide of the Rhine : and in cafe of a
check, and to facilitate his retreat, another
corps of the fame number of well equipped
troops are entrenched 011 the mountain ot
Fer, 011 thisfide of Lotjvain. The expedi
tion agaiuft Hoila 1 d is pursued in another
quarter by an army undergeneral d'Argon,
wh ch prcfles vigoroutiy againlt VVilliam
fta.de, which has a garrison of 2000 men,
whose ob't tlate defence is attributed to
their being in poliellion of the palies ot
I'Efcan.
General d'Harville has made a move
ment on this lide of Naniur, which has for
ced general Beauiieu, who had approached
there to retire into the Ardennes.
On Mo iday last arrived here, the priva
teer schooner, Citizen Genet, from a
crude. —Another of her prizes came up
yei*erday, brig Active from S>t. Vincents.
An alarming lire happened in this city
on Saturday morning l.dt, a little after
midnight, nearly adjacent to the fotith
weft corner of Chefnut and Third streets.
I'he flames were subdued in about two
hours, but not without a conliderabie loss
of property.
LeuersfVom iinpartialhandsin Tng'.and,
afiure vis that all was peace and quic-tnefs
it! Paris on the 2oili of March ; arid pfiStaJ.
bly so throughout the republic ; the i nliir-*
rections being unreasonably magnified in
foreign prints tor partial purpoies.
To the PRESIDENT of the
UNITED STATES,
> SIR,
| H WE jult seen your PRBCLAMATifW,
u ritten with your usual propriety and de
iicacy. But Ido not accord \\,ih your
idea, 'hat " the duty ar,d iiterefl of the li
mited States require, that they Jhould Iwith
lincerity and good fai h adopt nhdpinjue
a conduit friendly ar.d in,partial towat dr
the belligerent pollers " leagued againit
France. It is not their duty, because.
though bound by no expref- contrast, yet
there is an implied obligation to afiiU the
weak against the//ro*g', the opprejjed againit
the opprejl'or, on the fante principle as ill
the cafe ot an individual in a state of na
ture, who fees another attempt an unjust
force upon a third, and ought to interfere
to preserve right. The cause of France is
the cause of man, and neutrality is deferr
tion.
It is " not our intcrejlbecaiife despo
tism wHI give no thanks, and the republic
of France which will assuredly triumph,
will difdaiil her nnfeeJing Si/ftr'.v. so Ic, j
by withan unaflifling hand, and saw her
distress.
But how can we aflift ? We can make a
pufhat one of her adversaries, Fngiand;
and remove that power from Canada
The 1 ofing of foot hold any where w ill
contribute to reduce her force It will
be felf defence for onrfelves, as it will re
lieve from the hofliiities of savages.
The independence of tne island, in our
neighbourhood, will give an equal use of
the.r productions, which at pre sent, are
engrossed by Fngl nd.
Objection : Ou. commerce in the mean
time will I'ulFer, d he imports b.* redu -
ced. How so? .nIU-ad of pnrehjling Jirw
tifil cargoes, cam ot we take them ?
II we have not the duties, we can have the 1
bulks.
I fit is referred to the great m'nfs of th*
people, 1 doubt much whether it i> "the
d.'fpolition" of the United States to pre-
IV,ve the cot.dna yoti enjoin t Itna/
be the disposition of those who draw f'roiji
the funds ; but of none else. The la& =s,
Che American mind h indignant, and need*
to be but rotif, d a little to go to war w;; It
England, and afiilt France. Let ail who
think with me. SPE AK !
JPitilburgh Mav 3d r-oj.
1" If tile Br:lfh do not inftigat£ the eur~
my, they furnifli them with the contra
band articles of commerce—ls it tpnftitu
tional in the President to declare the dif
pafitloK ot the people with regard to <V:rr ;
the declaring which is in the <.'cn„rcf ?
as the executive, it became him in tine!
mean time to enjoin peace until the natioil
thro'its representatives, ii.oulcl hau accla»
red its sense. t
§t§ THE American and French CitM
z<>ns who intend ro meet Cl I IZF.N ;'.E
NET. at (iriy's Ferry, are informed that
some hours before his ,rriv.:l three cam . i
will be fired from 011 board 1 tie frigate i*
Ambnfcade, that the f. id citizens may be?
notified of his approach, a d prepare to feti
out immediately for Cray s Feiry, wheref
Ihall be the rendezvous.
To the PubliCi
'"PHE French patriotic foi iety of thai
friends of liberty and eqoa : ltv. irt
Philadelphia, I . b .rt informed, tiiac
several peifons who intend so contribute
to the-patriotic donation (a fubferioti", of
which was opened by the society in their 1
meeting of the 30th of April iaft) would
prefer miking their refpittive donations
without be ing k uiwn. or fubfcribii g
names on the books depolitc d with several
perfom, the names of which are mention
eel in the advertisement uiiei ted in thi ve
:al papers, lignetl by P. Barrier, president
and A. C. Du Plaine, lecrttary.
The society h'\e thought proper to
choose Citizens John S-wai., ini & yliuhr\-
el Keppele, to receive loch films as Ihall b&
be given in the manner above mentioned,
or paid by fubferibers, which comn illiou
they have had thegoodnefs to accept.
As loon oS a cert -in numbe rof fubferi
bers shall havf a eare , the fcrciety will
call a meeting oh.m. to fix upon pro
per persons to receive and dispose or thtf
iums fubferibed j.iintly with a committee
to be appointed by the for this pur
pore.
Two of their members will be named at
their meeting on Saturday evening next,
to collect such monies as shall have been
paid in and deliver them to the peilcns
above mentioned.
By order of the Society
A. C. Du PLAINE, Sec'ry.
May 11. *
PRICE OF STOCKS.
Six Per Cent? 16/8
Three Per Cents 0/4.
Deferred 10/"
Bank ui the United States 5 jjr- c*flnferted by Desire.]
From THE APOLLO, a paper printed
at Chejlertown, Maryland.
The man who fvvears against his will,
Is of the fame opinion (till.
HAIL ye full bred Tons of America !
ye ativoc tes foi the Rights of Man !
and iillen to the voice of teafon and hu
manity ! let not the unspotted nations
character of America be Itained with in
gratitude, nor her political with a breac
of public fiith, solemnly pledged by trea
ty ; but ast 'he grate uC and the hornlt
par', and treat, with 'he molt foverei ,r
contempt, those animals among us, vr/ui
dare i(h if to disregard our facted o'oli
nations to Fra c•, a d via ate our treaty,
as enemies to the hutiun lace, fit tools sot
tyrants.
O,fi ler their conduct, with refpeft ti
the French revolution, and you will fin.l
them only re-acling their p-»i ts in the glo
rious American revo ution ;an , that t 1 <
still retain the slavish doftri cs of p.dfiv
obedience, and non refill rice and hol<
the divinity of kings, coiitrat v to the ex
p-efs declaration of this enlightened em
pire : but we ought not to expe&. Jigs
thorr.s, ox grapes ol th\jl>es.
To hear them v I fy the French, wit*
every epithet that malice ca i lugged t<
their poisoned fen es, you would btliev.
th y had btirll th-*ir galls ; to hear the:;
reprobate the poverty of human language,
for not inventing words like fwo ds aiu'
exectate the ati hor of thtir nature, sot
not making them ventroliquilts, to throw
those wor'ls across the Atlantic ocean, a 1 >i
flay the gallant sons of France, you would
conclude they wer "refuge- p r inces of
France—But were you to hear them exe
crate the Na ional Convention, for tiie
tria , conviction am: execution of Louis
Capet, you would swear that he was a di
vinity, the National Convention a band of
villains, sent by Pontius Pilate to murder
him, and that they were sent bv Hraven
to avenge the facriligeous aCt—But, when
I tell you they wer enemies to the gre it
American rev lution ( hat event which
fills the 11 obi> ft page of history, and will
flnkr the molt distant ages with sftonifh
meiit) t eir conduit will be p.rfe&ly ex
plained. They are as certainly attr Aed
by the magnet of a crown, as the needl.
bv the loadltone, and again fall down and
Ivorjhp he golden calf, beca fe he wears a
crown, that etown which w s vrrefted by
the arm of power from the head of hts
own r lauon, the descendant of the mur
dered Charles-—To be idolaters of a jalje
God, who shines in Jlolen plumage, mult b(
idolatry indeed.
Can any n n juftify the principles of
tV>e merican revolution an I condemn
the revolution of France ? Have not the
p ople of France the lame natu-al right ; s
A r.ericans ? re not all mankind i>y na
tu'e ■ qual ? Have we not expr fsl de
c ared in our Bill of Rights, " That all
government is de ived from the people, is
founded. :n compact only ?' and, ' * V hat wc
have the sole right of regulating our internal
government " Is it not exprtfsly declared
to be comrary to th laws of nati n3, " Far
one n tion to interfere with the internal go
vernment «•'another ?" Yes, and they have
the exclujive ight, to deci e on their own
r lutions, 'and form goveinments for
i'jtmfelves :—But. the trial and execution
of Louis is 7, political crime never to be
forgiven, nor expiate ', but by the boo!
of the Convention of France, as murderers
and ajfftns. Let us c or.fider th'S charge,
and who they are that ..rofecute the Con
vention for it—They are that herd of little
heroes who (tuck to George the 11 Id in
the American contejl for libei ty; who forget
the murdered Charles ; who, but the other
day, we rejoi ing at the fate ol Louis
becaufe he aided America in her glorious
struggle for liberty, to whom they have
onlv attached thtinlelves, since the usurper
o' Britain has taken a part in i er cause,
her natural enemy, because he wat a ting,
and because theflames of liberty, unless fpe -
dily extinj;uifhed, would certainly melt
every crown in Europe
It dare not be contended, that Louis
was not guilty of the crimes for which he
fnffered death, after the conviction by the
national convention, who alone had that right;
crimes, by the of Moses, expiable by
dea h alone, " He who sheds man's blood
by man «' shall iis blood be shed But
Louis was a king and the sacred chara&e
( f kings, the divinity of his title, ought to
have secured him from the pollution of hu
man punifliment ; kings have a divine right
to Jacrijice human -victims on the altars of
roya.ty :• —But, oh ye sacrilegious Franks,
y u mud be scourged for this iniquity. —
How would the shepherds conduct them
selves towards a crowned wolf, who had
an unlimited jure divino, right, to kili
their sheep with impunity ? Would they
not risk tie provoca'i nof divine ■vengeance,
and sac ifice him on the altar of Signine
Liberty ? Would not reason and humani
y p laud the ast ? and, would not na
ture, and nature's God, declare the jultice
of that judgment, and every lamb cry oui
/fm n ? And shall man be condemned for
consulting his own fafety; by th deduc
tion of the tyrants of the earth, those de
stroyers of the human race, and the (hep
her s be applauded for the protection of
th if flocks.
Whst, let me affc, would have been the
fate of George, in the fill of 1776, by
wh -ft' command a num er of his innocent
•■I jeets had been murdered by the fwortl,
an by 'he more 1 v go confinement in
pr son (hips, an unnt-c-fTiry rigor of war,
inadmiflable by the usage of civilised nat -
ons : Would they have tried him by a Con
srcfs, and executed iin with a Guillotine:
No,tliey would have given him martial law
they would have confi lered him a tyrant,
a usurper anl afpv tried him by a court
martial, and hung him on a gibbet ; he was
a tyrant or we were rebels ; and shall we
bear the Franks to be condemned, Fot
putting I,'iuis Capet to death by a civi.
trial and a Guillotine, when we v ould have
tried George Whelps by a court martia
and hung him on a gibbet ?
But, if therfc is any thing so sacred ir
the character 'f kings, that they are
above the law, and ma commit, by t eii
fia , murders wit 1 impunity, it is a crimi
to be a king, for which they ought to fut
rcr death : And I do not find in all the
laws of Moses, that kings who commit eti
murders are excepted and by the law o!
nations, a. d of God, tyrants and murdercn
may be put to death.
Let us .letermine to ast an honed part,
preserve our tnaties, and be obedient tc
the rulers of cm land, as long as they con
full the public good ast agreeably
to our conftitijtion : but when they vio
ate tlte one, or the other, let us, Ameri
cans, who deposed k ; ngs, who dared be
free, use the knife freely, that terror tc
tyrants.
GUILLOTINE.
Cheftertown, May 2, 1792.
LONDON, March 22d.
n he 3 /thofjinuary sermon, preached
by the Lord Bishop of St. Davids, was 2
matter ofjefuitifm.lt conlilted oft", c
parts, politics and religion, the latter being
always kt pt n due fubordinati 11 to the
former. He preatl e from the text, " Lei
every f ill be ful jest unto the higher pow
ers" ; from which he drew as perfect
Ivft m of non refinance to crowned head:
as ever graced the days of Charles the
second. In this extraordinary discourse
ihe prear e attempted to prove, that
John Cilvin tho' unquestionably a repub
lican in theory, was not p'ac'ictdly an ene
my to the government of kings It ap
pea red to most of the auditors rather die
to lug in Ctivin's politi s. As a divine
he was in some points as orthodox and ra
her more explicit than an English bishop.
H> scorned to interpose a prevarication
between the foul of Serve/us and the mer
cy of his creator. He thought the furefl
way of saving him from being burnt to all
eternity in the next world, was to burn
him in this — and he burnt him according
y g° 'hon, Mr. Bishop of St. David's,
ind do so likewise !
I Have claims to about two hundred and
n.t, thousand acres or LaND in the date
Kentuckry, in different pans of that countrj,
I'ome "f which 1 know to be equal to any ; al
f wheh 1 am inclined to dispose of, either b-.
ntire lale. or by admitting one, or two part ierb
to whom the agenuy on the whole will be com
mitted.
One fourth of the contrail will be required in
hand, either in cacti, merchandise, or such affe;.
>' ma> be converted to active use, the relidu
may be apportioned in convenient instalments.
The purehafers to give fecurijy, on the land,
or otherways.as suits them.
Knowing that there is a prejudice against thi
11 ties of land in that (la'e, which is more genera!
han just, lam willing to ftipulnte in the con
trail, rhat a difcounr, or d-duttion, (hall bf
mnde, where an. land may be loft, by reason of a
defrflive title.
Any person inclining to such a purchase, is re
quelled to write to me by poll, in answer t
whom, more particular information will be given
HENRY BANKS.
Richmond March 10, 1793. 2.1 wll
Harrifjurgh Mail Stage.
STAR i S every V-c.r.eljay from Mr. Kenr\
Epply's in race ftieec, between third an
r arth streets, and arrives at Harrilburgh 0:1 th
Saturday morning folb wing—Starts from Mr
Crabb's, innkeeper, Harrifburgh, on Monda
:nd arrives on Wednelaay at Philadelphia.—
N. B. The Reading stage starts from Reading,
it John Witman's, innkeeper, on Monday, anu
jruves at Philadelphia on Tuesday morning—
1 hen starts from Philadelphia on Friday murn
•ig at 4. o'clock, and arrives at Reading on Sa
urday morning. The greatest care and attenti
on fliail be paid by the publics' humble lervant.
WILLIAM COLEMAN.
N. B. A light stage upon lprings, with twr
rfes, or without horses, with complete te:rs,
Tii be hao 3, any moments* warning, for the
1 commodation of ladies and gentle men, by ap
-lying to the above named W m. Coieman, livn, t
l >or 11 h ' Reading
Journeymen Saddlers
WAN T E D,
BY the Society of Mailer Saddlers of the cit
of Philadelphia—Fifteen or twenty w >rk
<>• o ottheabpve profelfion,will meet v* ith conftan*
mploymei t and generous wa.es, by appLing t<
-VILLI AM JONES. Secretary to the iociety, ai
No. 3, South t rynt-ftreet.
Apr 1 24 2aw
JUST PUBLISHED,
rice one quarter of a dollar J
THE
LAWS
or THE
UNITED STATES,
Pafled at Che last Selnon of Congress, which
complete vol. 11.
Pulli/hed by Authority.
A Complete INDEX is dddrd for the volume
Philadelphia— P inredbvCHiLPsisfSwAiNE
Printers ol the Laws of lhe United States; an
1 Id by them at their Office N<> Marker
Stieer : alfj by the principal Booklet.ers, when
! I. is to be had.
J Ut>T PUBLISHED,
And to befu-!d by Thomas DobsoN Wil
liam Vovng, Robert Campbell,
MeiTrs. Rice and Co. and Join M
Culloch, No. i. North Thirc-llreet,
a N EXAMINATION of the late pro
ceedings in Congress refpefiting the
official conduct of tne Secretary of the
7'reaftiry; with Oblervations, &:c, on the
ipplication of loans from Hull nd, negou
sted under the acts of the 4th and 12th e
4unitk 1790 —The price of the above
lamphlet is three fixteenthb of a dollar, 01
is 4d. 1-2 April 44. 2avv tf
TO THE PUBLIC.
IXTHERE/16 an atlachmenta ih luit of Sam
ue Iml.iy and Nathaniel lmlay, execut >r
>f he testament and last will of Peter ImJav, de
reafed, has ifTued out of the Supreme o
fuidica-ure of the state of New Jersey, against « h
a ds of Garrer Voorheis, late of the county o,
VI Jdlefex, and state aforefaid, returnable to tht
lrit Tuesday in Septe nber, seventeen hunrret
md ninety two Notice is hereby given to 'he
aid Garret Vuorheis, that unless he appear anc
lie special bail to the laid a&ion, judgment
vill be -nteied against him, by default, and th*
..nds so attached fold for the fatisfa&ion of such
)f his creditors as lhall appear to be justly entitle?
o any demand thereon, and /hall apply for that
jurpsfe, according to the form of the statute ir
uch cafe made and provided.
Bv order of the Court,
April 17. law. ly HOWELL, Clk.
TO BE RENTED,
And pnffeliior .iven i«» July next.
A Merchant M ILL,
Also, j coun.ry an d a saw mill ;
enher f-parately or together, with all th'
ionve; ienci s belonging, confiding of «
[ od 'ramed dwelling houfp, store house, granar>
-oopers shop, tables, See. ail in perfett good or
ier and almo'.t new, situate in a fine wheat c >u -
■I'pt on a ronftant and plentiful ft re am of watei.
it the head of a navigable creek, callec Miflipilion
*">m whence the ftiallops tra : (, ort flour to Phila
lelphia withmt any trouble to the miller, and ai
oining a fiourifnmg village that always affords <
/ery ready sale for the offal of the merchant mill,
and an abundance of custom to the country and
aw mills. Those advantages render these mifl
infrior to none in this country j and the fituatioi
or a Itore is equal to any in the state. The
iie«chant mill is three stories high with two pair
f burr stones r double gear'd, a roLing fcreene and
finn that cleans wheat into both hoppers, two
bolting chests, and a ma- hine tor hoi fling that goes
by water. This mill manufadhjres
fuperfine flour, that is much elteemed as such in
Philadelphia. Fnr terms apply to R >oert Lewis
and Co. merchants in Philadelphia, or the sub
Icribers near the premises
ELIZABETH THORNE,
PETER CAVERLY.
Milford, Kent County, ate of Delaware
May. 1, 1-93. 2aw>
STRAY MARE.
CAME to the plantation of William V/il!iam
fon, late of Little Britain township, Lan
countv, on tne loth day of latt Apiil f a
fnall Bav Mare, a narural trotter, about i 3 hand'
h gh j she wa9 th n a ivertifed and fir.ee appraised.
The owner is once more desired to com?, prove
property, pay charge®, atid take her aw.«v, olhe •
, wife flie will be fold in two mon lis from thi
date, by MARGARET WILL! \MSCN.
j March 25, J }q;- 3t idw
Bcoks & Stationary.
ROBERT CAMPBELL,
No. 54, Second Street, South, fecund door be
low the corner of Chelnm ftr« et,
HAS IMPORTED,
By the late arrivals from Britain and
Ireland,
The ancient & modem uimetfal history, 60 vols.
Guthnes history of the World, 13 vols.
Ri graphic..l Dictionary, 12 vols elegantly gilt.
A.iacharfis's Travels in ancie, t Greece, 7 vols'
gilt.
Giobons's Roman History, 12 vols. gilt.
Hume & Smollet's H'ltory of Eogland, 13 vols.
Robertlon's history of Charles the V. 4 vols.
History of America, 3 vols.
De la Croix on the different constitutions of Eu
rope and America, 2 vols.
New Annual Register, 12 vols.
M-ckeron executive Power, 2 v Is.
Kuiicl's history of ancient Europe, 2 vols.
History of modem Europe, 5 vols.
Voting's travels in France, 2 vols.
Fielding's Wo ks, 12 v>ls.
l J rieftley's Le&ureson History, 2 vols;
Same book in 1 vol.
P ieftley's Historical Charts on Rollers with books
of description.
King of Pruflia's 13 vols.
Enfield's History of Philofaphy, 2 vcls. 4to ele
gantly gilt.
Same book in 2 vols. Svo.
Bell's Bntiih Theaue, 25 vols, coarse or fiue
i-aper.
Shakespeare's Works, in ion vols.
Botanic Gaiden, z vols, bouna in one.
Moih im's Ecclesiastical Hiftorv, 6v. Is.
Dojdndge's Family Expofnor, 6 vols.
Lardner's Works, 11 vols.
Whitfield's Works, 7 vols.
Biftop of Landaff's Theological Tracts, 6 vols.
Large Family Bioles, with beautiful copper
plates.
Lavater on Phvfiognomy, abridged.
Young's Annals as Agriculture, l 8 vols.
Tour in France.
Mntural History of Birds, colored plates, 3 vols,
'aretti's Italian and Eng.ifh Di&ionary.
B©larelli's do. d». do. 3 vols.
Italian and English Exerciles.
Paines Woiks.
Arderfon on Commerce 6 vols.
Viner's Ab'iagmenc of the Law, 12 vols. 3 vo.
Wood's Conveyancing, 3 vols, r»• 1 io.
Same book 4 firft vol?. Svo.
William's digeftof the Eng 1»ill Law 2 volsj
Comvns's digest of the Law, 6 vols.
Croke's Reports, 4 vols.
Salkeld's Reports, 3 vols.
Blackftone's do.
VVm. Black'ton' do. 2 vols.
Burrow's d •. 5 vols.
Ambler's do.
C woer's do.
Brown's 00. 2 vols.
Douglas's do. Vevfey's do. 2 vols.
Dallas's do. Coke's do. 7 vols*
Wilson's do. 3 vols. Raymond's do. 3 vols.
S mge's d>. 2 vols. Comyn's do.
L'liy's Entries, 2 vols.
C ke on Littleton.
Morgan's Eflavs, 2 vols.
Vatt ll on the Law of Nations.
W -odefon's Lectures, 2 vols.
Harrifon's Chancery, 2 vols.
Hinde's do.
Powell on Powt rs.
Powell nn Contratfs.
EfpinafTe on N si Prius.
Sullivan's Letfures.
Eunomus, or Dialogues on the Laws &conftitu«
lion of England.
Motherby's medical Didlionarv,
Medical Commentaries, 16 vols, by Duncan,
"ledical Communications and inquiries, 6 vols.
Medical Memoirs, 3 vols*
Morgan on the feat and raufes < f viifeafes, 3 vo!a.
Pott's Cnirurgical Works, 3 vois.
Ofburn's midwifery.
Tranfasions of a new medical society.
Underwood on the difeafesof cnildren, 2 vols.
Walli *s Sydenham, 2 vols.
Van Swieten's Commentaries on Boevhave, 18
vols.
Spallanzanics diflertations, 2 vols.
Hunter on the Venereal disease.
Hunter on the oifeafes of the teeth.
Hunter on the animal ceconomy.
Reid -in the diseases of the army and navy
>lank books of all sizes.
Writing paper of all kinds.
Du'ch quills of the very best quality, See. See.
R C. will supply c untrv (tare - keepers on the
verv lowest terms, with family, pocket, and com
mon ibles, spelling books, primers,
wafers, writing paper, wrapping do. pla\ing cards*
English and American ink powder, quills, bonnet
papers, Young man's companion, Dilworth's
Arithmetic, Watt's pfaims and hymns,, vVefl y's
hjmns, dictionaries, hiltories of a;i kinds, &c.
I aw.
Department of State, to wit.
jSjOTiCF. is hereby given, to perlbasin
terefted in the property or the proceed
ings of Claudius P...111 R gueit, a citizen of
Pennsylvania, lately deceased at Bordeaux,
in France, thru on application at the office
of the Secretary of Slate, they may receive
information relative thereto, as tranfiiiit
ted by Mr Fenwick, Colifulfor the United
States at Bordeaux.
GEO. TA VLOR, jun. Chief Ck.
Philadelphia, April 3c,
printed BY
CHII.DS AND SWAIN E
at theik orncF. no. 2cg, r.3T,
WEAR KI F T H-S TRe rT ,
PHILADELPHIA*