Numb. 53 of Voi. ll.]
address
From the National Convention
to the French Nation.
Propojed by M. ISNARD, and adopted by
the Aifembly, on the prejent crijis if their
fituaiion.
FRANKS,
CUCH is the inevitabfe lot of nations who
have given to themselves kings, that
they ne\cr can lli: ke off their yoke with
out a struggle with every neighbouring ty
ra'nt.
Scarce had you proclaimed your own lo
vereignty wiien the emperor and king of
Prussia took up arms again 11 you, but now
that vou have proclaimed your couiticuti
-011 to* be republican, there is not one del'-
pot who hfs not refotVed u/on your uttei
ruin. Those wiio h:»ve not already lore
-ed you into open war, are probably tempo
riling, that tney may the more ealily de
ceive vou, and it is but too true, that the
projected Ifc uggle i 3 between the enfran
chifcd Fiance and the cnflaved Europe.
. Be that so, France mult eventually tri
umph, if its will is firm and coultant ; ioi
nations ire Itronger than armies. Those
who have fought lor independence were
ever victors. Let Holland, Switzerland,
and the United States, be proofs- ot thi.
alfercion. . , .
Free nations find resources 111 their ut
moit extremities and dillrefs. Rome re
duced to the circumference of the capital,
arose iVn u defeat more formidable than
from victory. .
Reir. jnia. r, Franks, your own exploits,
when the Prutlians dared to pollute your
icrr ■ y. Evei did the enthusiasm of li
berty -riumpli over numbers; ever did
fin-tune o*iile on the val mrous enteipiilii,
and viJfbTy'on truf ewrrajf- ■
Heroes of Marathon, Salamis, and Jem
mappe, we invoke your testimony. Intaiit
republic, such are thy models, such ale the
prefaces of thy success. Surely thou w all
reserved to give the u'niveife adifplay ot a
scene hitherto unknown, hitherto unima
gined in the mind ot man, for never did
such a cause occupy the foul oi mankind,
never was such a cause referred to the ul
timate decision of a tribunal of Not
the interest or concerns of the day is the
theme, polterity and ages *.o come aie the
fubjefl ; not the liberty of one nation —no,
the enfranchifement of the human spe
cies. .
Franks, may the sublimity of these ideas
inflame thy valour, crulh every tyrant, ra
ther than thyfeii become a slave- a (lave !
What lhall then new kings feed on thy
gold, on the fwcat of thy brow, on the pro
tulion of thy blood ? Shall again unfeeling
parliaments, at their caprice, dispose oi
thy fortune, of thy lite ?—Shall again a fa
natic priesthood decimate thy indulhy and
thy harvells ? Shall again a faftiiiious no
bility tread thee under the foot of insolent
contempt ? Shall holy equality, lhal. facrc-il
liberty, the produce of thy unparalleled
exertions, again be ravilhed from thee ?—
Shall that noble empire, the inheritance of
thy ancestors? be d.lmen beivcl ?—Shall
there be for us no logger the word Coun
try, no longer the nine of a Frank ? —
Shall this generation be deltincd to this ac
cumulation of infamy ?—Shall it bear the
scorn of all Europe, and the contempt of
posterity ? No ; we will disappear from
the furface of the earth, or we will re
main upon it independent Franks !
Let every true republ can arm for his
country, let our iron and brass transform
thenifeives into the tliunders of war ; let
our forelts become veflels ; let France be
come one camp ; let the nation become one
rmy ; let the artist quit his art, and the
i eculator his speculation. It is more ur-
to acquire liberty than riches ; let
J cultivation retain but the arms that are
necefiary lor it; before we ameliorate our
foil, let us enfranchile it ; let those veter
ans who have def'erted their flandards,
blulh to fee their laurels fading before the
viitories of inexperienced but valourous
youth. Above all, let the young and vi
gorous citizen fly to the defence of the re
public. It is jufl that he fliould be expos
ed to the combat, ere the father of a fami
ly 'hall risque his more facreci person.
And you. tender mothers, wives replete
with love and sensibility, inflead of attract-
Sng and holding back in your arms those
citizens who are dear to you, excite them
rather to fly to victory !
It is not in the caule of adefpotthat they
are to combat, it is for you, for your chil
dren, for your homes. Inltead of weep-
By P. FRENE AU : Publijhcd. Wednesdays and Saturdays, at Three Dollars per annum.
WEDNESDAY, May i, 1793.
ing for their departure, repeat, like Spar
tanwomen, enthufiijftic arci martial forg';
and let your hands, ere their return, weave
them cloth lor their bodies, and crowns foi
their victorious heads.
And thou, patriotil'm, and thou, paflion
of liberty, a:.d of glory, who art the pre
servative eflence of republicans, thcfburce
of heroism and of virtue, enflanie their
fouls ! Let us all (wear upon the grave oi
our lathers, anil upon the cradle ps our
children—let usfvvear by the victims ot tilt
10th oi AugulK by the banes' of our bre
thren yet Icattered over the fields,'that we
will revenge them, or die like them.
As tor you, opulent, and more favour
ect men, who are ra'her egoults than re
publicans, who lighior nothing but for reft
—aid us to conquer, andtoon you will have
peace.
II relaxed by indolcnce, you cannot fuf
:ain the fatigues ol the war—open youi
tieafufes to indigence, and buy defenders,
ivho may supply your place.
YVlulfi yyiii brethren triumphed inj Bel
jia, and upon the Alps, whillt they bid de -
ian'ce to cold, to' hunger, and to deajfi ;
.vhillt they climbed tip mountains and.Tea
ed rampart. , you were repotiug in tht
of luxury, and can you reftife evei
jecuni iry fucu ur- !is then gold n.ore pre
ions than blood 1 It on one hand tlie lint
or your country' peiTuadej you to make
acrihces, let at icall on the other, infereil
nipel you to it; reflect tliaL both youi
property and your fjc'urity depend upot:
• iieftucefs of this war; liberty will noi
Jerii,. beiore pubiu fortu e is aiCa an Villi
ated, it I'ra.icfe difniembered : if the ene
nies triumph, woe to ihem who have
a rouged our country.
Rich citizens, if you with your countr)
:o be generous towards you, luii. ;> ui
uties luu aaiL, Uex ; Lo.. ofl. ij n; - be
:omes a victim, because he has relukd tu
lo justice. Let your opinions be what
:iiey will, your eaul'e is common ; we all
ire but patli-ngers in the vclul of the re
volution, Hie is launched, ilie mult come
to haibour, or Ilie mull go to pieces, and
none will find a planx in the tiniverlal
wreck. 1 here is only one means to save
us ali. the whole niafs of citizens mult
form a powerful colofi'us, who, (landing
upright before the nations, nii.fl hold with
une iiand tiie exterminating sword of the
nation, and waving it over the earth and
nver the IV .s, lhall overthrow the armies
and fie. is of monarchy.
Popular fonetits, ye ramparts of the re
volt! .on—ye who gave birth t, liberty,
and who watch over its cradle ; create de
lenders to it by'your eloquence, your ex
amples ; imprint a great motion, and ele
vate your fouls to the highest degree of en
thusiasm.
Warriors, who at the voice of your coun
try fly to the field ol combat, we do not
endeavour to excite your courage, French
men and republicans, you are full of hon
our and bravery ; but we recommend tc
you, in the name of the republic, obedi
ence to your chiefs, and ftritt discipline ;
without discipline there can be no armies,
nol'uccefs; without discipline, courage is
useless, and number is impotent : discipline
supplies every thing, and nothing ftipplie;
its place.
Conquerors of Valmy, Spires, and Ar
gonne, w ill you futter to perish what you
have once saved ? Ts'o, you will also van
quilh these new phalanxes the north is vo
initing forth ; you will defeat England on
that element at present the theatre of her
power. Let our brave faiiors fly to the
veflels of the republic. Our marine, as
renowned for their patriotism, as our ar
mies, lhall heap victory upon vi&ory; dis
encumbered of an effeminate nobility, it is
invincible. Sons of commerce, who un
der the yoke of a delpotifm, that over
w helmed you withinfults, produced a Jean
Bart, Diiqnene, Kagne, Trouin, what i;
there not to be expecled from you undei
the reign of equality ?—No more restrain
the combat to the discharge of cannon—a
freeman should depend only on himfelf.
Our grenadiers have themselves dismount
ed batteries with their bayonets. Our hus
sars have charged on horftback from the
ramparts. Do you in yourtu.n attempt
their decks. There let these proud islan
ders—these despots of the sea, fall under
the stroke of your hatchet.
Sailors, soldiers, may a salutary emula
tion animate you 1 may an equal fuccef;
cro\ln your endeavours 1 Are you con
quered ? France becomes the fcolf of nati
ons and the prey of tyrants ; already fee
your savage conquerors dart upon her, fee
them insult, ravage, and lay her u afle ! fee
thematalofs for victims to glut them
selves with, to appease the 11 ants ot' Ca
pet ! fee, illuminated by the (lames of Pa
ris, whither they carry theii vengeance,
whither the hangman drags your friends
and your brothers ; your defeat covers the
e irtlj with mourning and with tears, liber
ty limns these desolate regions, and with
her vani(hes the happinels of the human
race ■, lmig after you (hall be 110 more, the
urihappy will clank their chains over your
tomb-, and insult your a(hes.
You vanqtrifli, and there is an end to ty
ants ; mankind embrace each other, and.
ilham: d ot their long error, extinguiih the
orch of war; they proclaim you the fat i
-3urs of your country ; the founders of the
"epnblic, the restorers of the universe :
ind the nation will crown you with the lau
rels you have earned for it.
For you \\ ho may (all in the field of he
iou'r, what can equal your glory? Yout
grateful country will provide for your fa
milies, will engrave your names tfn mar
ble, and on brass, or rather they shall dwell
or ever on the frontifpiece of the great
emple of uuiverfal liberty, and tutnre ge
nerations, when they read them (hall fay,
:!iefe arc the French heroes who broke the
Jiains of the human race, who inttrelled
hemfelves in our happiness, when we did
lot even exist.
Happy France! such is the exalted def
:iny that is prepared for you. Lose not
pourfelves in its vaftnefs ; perform it with
leroifm, that history may notf urnifh, from
ts annals, any triumphs to compare with
['ours. Efface at once the glories ot the
epirblicj of Greece, and Rome. Accom
jlifn more in ong year, under the reign of
liberty, i ail you have done in ages undei
hereifg' of kings. Compel ft rangers to
per' F't :ich republic brt \v 1 th ref
jeft—of Fre .ch citizens but with enthuli
iflic admiration.
As to us. firm at our ports, we promise
:o set you the example of unbounded ci
■ifm, courage and devotion. We will inn
ate, lhould there be occasion, those Ko
nan senators, who waited their death up
jn the ciirule chair. They have said thai
nc are divided among ourselves, take care
towy.>u ulen tothein ; if ouropinions dif
er, our sentiments are the fame. We dif
fer as to the means, but our object is one.
3>ur dWiberationsare tumultuous, but how
:an we help being animated in difcuflin:
mr nearest interells. 'Tis our eagerncl
or the public good which agitates us ; the
rlecree once paffea, the clamour is at ai
end, but the law remains.
Franks, rely upon your representatives.
whatever may be the event, they will cou
rageoudy ftruggie againfl fortune, anc
again (I man—never will they, in thy name,
c pitulate with tyranny.
When firft we were constituted a con
vention, it fecmed to us as we heard the
voice of our country, fuggelling to us.
•' go, and render me free, and insure mj
future happinels at the expence of momen
tary tranquility.-"
It to insure freedom Europe must be
conquered, speak and 1 w ill join battle
with her, whatever may be my lofTes, my
dangers and fatigues. Give me no defini
tive peace without pure and limple inde
pendence. O ! my country ; that sublime
language has penetrated our fouls—has re
mained impressive 011 our hearts—will
form the unerring rule of our conduct, anc
thou fliait be laved.
(From an Eajlern Paper.)
" T HAVE ever conlidered a republicar
government, as the molt natural, anc
the mofl rational and equal government,
that ever did, or can exist among mankind
as it giyes to every subject thereof, a rlghi
and opportunity, to choose his own ruler;
and juclges, and it is supposed, that by a
majority of'votes, men of the greatest abil
ities, and candor, will be ele£led to fill the
legislative and judicial departments ; —yel
we often find that mankind, by long use &
habit 111 those privileges, become inatten
tive and careless, and do not consider the
importance of them enough. They there
lore grow by degrees, remiss and indiffer
ent 111 their attendance on eieftions, anil
other public convocations ; they think
matters will go well enough; they have
some little bulinefs to attend to of theii
own, and their vote will be of but very
small consequence, and so they do not at
tend to cl.cofpg iltir goven.oi, their
counsellors, their representatives, See. by
[Total No. 157 ]
which means those who have a friend to
serve, or a party to gratify, can and do
mutter their forces, and Without any or
but little opposition, choose thole who they
think \\ ill serve their own paricular in
terert withoui any regard to ,he abilities,
honesty, or integrity of those they vote for;
thus it is, we ohen fee men of the worffc
principles, and moil wanting in probity and
candor, and who are replete with tinctle
and duplicity, and mod it illtd in the base
arts of low cunning, fubtilry. .nd mean
intrigue, get into places i.f trust and ho
nour, who, to compensate their voters,
flick not at prevarication, and at the per
veriion of justice, to lerve their friends;
hence we hear (and with too much truth)
that an ailetnbly will grant a petition to one
man, and deny to another hi request
founded tipcn the fame aicot.nt, and often
on much more reaional le and £qt.i:able
grounds. hence it is aifo we hear so of
ten, nay it is a common observation that a
-rial at law is a mere lottery, and you may
as well toss up a copper for the decision of
i cause, as to have it tried by a court. A
man has a petition topreie. to the'general
ifltmbly, he is made to believe that hfs
H-ighbour A is his friend anil is a man of
nfluence abroad, and he knows he won
lerfully poffefles the art of in r j>ue, and
■vill allift him in getting his petition gi»nt
;d, if he can get him chosen deputy, he
nutters his friends, and urges theiri to at
end pun£)ually it the hour ot fonie public
neet ng and vote for Mr A. Other free
nen knowing or caring nothing about the
>lot, do not so generally attend ; the cori
equence is Mr. A. is appointed deputy, &
Alien he gets into the afcemhly, or Con
;refs, he puts his intriguing arts into exe
ution, and repays his voting friend.--., and
jets thepetitioi) granted,w itii a pronii eto
iliilt a brother deputy, and to get another
jetition granted, which the other deputy
las illicit i taken in the f me way: \ jiiTe
mother man, more ciefervingj 1011 l hi: pe
ation for want of friend- to all;!: hi 11 .
Judges, efpeciaily the afliilant judges, in
ounty courts, are Vilually non in,,red by
:he deputies oi e.ch county, and perhaps
ome of those deputies, owe their election
o some one man, who willies vo be a ju T
icc of the quorum : and anxious to r pay
lis friend for his exertions, in getting him
ippointed deputy, uses his intriguing art,
o get such a friend of his appointed a fide
tuige of the county court. 'i his jt.dge in
eturn mufl help his friend ; anu unit Is lie
s a man of great candour, he will do it;
jn this account, it is, we so often hear a
-omplaint that parties are judged, and not
:he cai.Je. Another observation is often
11 de ; tlio I conftls not so common; but
ndeed carries great impeachment 011 a
-ourt, that is it you get a certain lawyer,
,ou will be l.kely to have greater fnccefs ;
lot that he has greater abilities, or more
ntegrity, but he has greater influence with
:hc court. Ido not believe this is gei.er
illy the cafe, because 1 believe our juo-es
11 a general way, are men of comcieiue
ind candor, yet it is to be feared, thaL some
if the judges who get their appointments
yy their intrigue, give too much occafiun
or the observation : and lhonld a jud"e
who is to try a cause, be si. void of ir.teg
rity, and candor, as to advise a party to
-mploy such or such a lawyer, in p; eftr
;nce to another, merely became he (ti, e
recommended lawyer) has more influence
with the court ; it would be indeed li ock
nig; and when a jiu.ge has those feelings,
are our properties fair in his hand:- ? and it'
lie should be so bare- aced aiid undiiguifed
as to express his feelings to the parties
w hole cai.fe he is to try, need we any lon
ger wonder that we hear the <on.nion
complaint ' that law is a lottery?" And
ought not such a judge to be difphctd ?
My fellow freemen, these are tie causes
of complaint, and thc-y arise from your not
attending public elections punctually, and
thereby fruflrate those detigning and in
triguing men in their plans. Attend and , t
tencl till tile business of the elefuon is doi.e
and no donbt but righteous men will ) t t
rule over us: and by their example, we
fliall again become a religious, a republican
people, and so be a happy people.
From such causes we find by hiflorv that
all the antient republics dwindled aw a- •
became hateful to the people, ai d cave
place to monarchy : the people chose
to be under the controul of one 111,111 v [~,
was independent of the people for h- ,
sice, and could not be bought by friend
rather than to live in so great ur.ee, taii,| V '
From such facts Mr. Adams grounds | , (
opin on, that a republican government can.rtot exist long. He makes a kind of ex
ception to the government of Connecticut,
and alliens for a reason, the purity of the
morals of Conne£licut ; but when we fee
the morals of a people depreciating ( as is
always the cafe in propertiOn to populati
on and luxury) then it becomes the true
lovers of the gov'ernmertt, to watch the
liberties of the fame, moie narrowly and
critically, and to g'uard against every thing
that tends to weaken it. 1 dare allure my
lellow freemen, that if they will ddigently
atte ;d all public ele&ion-meetings, and
vote tor men of abilities, probity and can
dor, for governor and alliltants, and men
void of intrigue for representatives, thole
who fear God rather than man, who will
difplate intriguing party-spirited men from
our feats of justice : then will our gov
ernment flourilh and prosper, our republic
will last as long as time, and justice will
run down our ltreets as a rtream, and righ
teoufnels as a tiood."
FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE.
Vienna, Feb. n. The imperial troop>
deflined to ait against France, are divided
iuto four armies. The total number ol
battalions ot infantry for these armies i'
127 —of divisions of cavalry 67, and one hall
battalions.
Frankfort, Feb. 15. The two brothers o;
his late molt chritlian majesty have lent of
fitial notice of their brother's death to al
the courts in Europe. They have pro
claimed the dauphin king of France undei
the title of Louis XV 11. Count de Pro.
vence is declai ed regent of the kingdom
and Count D'Artois lieutenant-general
The regent has sent Colonel Van Roll to b<
ambail'ador at *he head quarter? of hi:
Prudian majefly. The king of Prussia ha:
already acknowledged the new king, th(
regent, and the lieutenant-general o]
France.
Feb. 26. Monsieur of France has publish
ed a proclamation at Ham in Wellphalia,
which mentions the late murder cou.mittec
on Louis XVI. and declares that the 'Dau
phin Louis Charles, born the 27th ot Mart !
1785, is king of France and Navarre, undei
the name of Louis XVII.' Monsieur thcr
declares himfelf to be regent, and that he
aflumes the reins of govei nmetit conjointly
with the other princes of the blood royal,
of whom the Count d'Artois is appointed
lieutenant of France. The proclamation
is dated •' January 28th, under our seal,
which we made use of in the ligning of so
vereign acts, under the seals of the king
dom, deltroyed by the reigning faction, are
re-made, in the year 1793, and the firlt of
the reign of Louis XVII."
A definitive reparation has taken place
between Monsieur and the uounc d'Artois.
The latter was jealous of the title of re
gent, winch his elder brother has formally
auumed. There was also a itrong differ
ence between their plans ot government,
ill cafe they should be able fuccefsfully to
re-enter France. Monsieur was for a li
mited monarchy, but the Count was for
re-eftabli(hing the former government,
with abating a little of its molt odious pre
tensions.
Monsieur, the late king of France's eldest
brother has received fix thousand pounds
sterling troin the king ot England, as a
present.
London, March 2. On the Bth of January
lall, Lunardi ascended in aballoon at Mad
rid, in the presence of their catholic ma
jellies, the royal family, and a great croud
of people of all ranks. He changed the fi
gure of his aerostatic globe to that of a
temple in the clouds, adorned with columns
and ltatues, afterwards he changed it to a
Chinese building, with arches and statues,
then to half temple and haif Chinese build
ing, and call anchor at twenty miles from
Madrid; he then proceeded to a vail height
(almost out of fight)—at four o'clock he
calt anchor again, at 38 miles from Mad
rid, where he llripped his balloon of about
700 ysrds of the linen with which he had
made the above mentioned changes ; he
then set fail and at (111 Ik landed near
the city ot Orcarco, 56 miles from Madrid.
His aerial voyage iaited five hours.
Madrid, Feb. 14. The molt extraordi
nary and energetic exertions take place in
all our ports. The officers of the marine
have all received orders to repair to their
ports with all pofiible speed. Our naval ar
mament will be ready for sea in 8 da\ s. The
public voice points out M. Langara, d'Ar
tizabel, and Mazaredo, as the 1110 ft eligible
for the command of it.
The indignation of the people upon the
firft intelligence of the death of Louis was
extreme. The French resident here were
obliged to conceal themselves, to avoid the
popular fury ; and their indignation was,
if pofiible, encreafed, when they were told
that the Convention had refufed the king's
mediation.
Extract of a letter from the French Camp
near Maeftricht, dated Feb. 12.
" Since my lad letter, we have twice
changed our encampments, the more close
ly to invert Maeftricht. We keep that city
blockaded, have ftopt many carriages with
grain, and taken some prisoners. We some- J
times interchange salutations with the en-1
emy's patrol.
" The garrison propose to refill ter
rable bombardment with which we are go
ing to entertain them. They arc incessant
ly at work on their intrenchments. We
are within a quarter of a league from the
city, patrol night and day, and Hop all who
go in or come out of it. There are a num
ber of emigrants in the city. Cannon
loaded with broken glass and iron are plant
ed in every street, in cafe of resistance from
the inhabitants; but I hope the red cap
which I wear will be placed on the tree ol
liberty, and that this glorioiu tree will be
planted on the ramparts of Maeftricht.''
Hague, March 6. An officer arrived liPre
this evening with an account of the capi
tulation of Gertruydenburg, to the French
after three days bombardment, on the fame
conditions as those given at Breda. The
garrison confiding of a Swift regiment, and
an 160 cavalry, to evacuate the town to
morrow, with the cannon of the battalli
ons, all the horses, and to march to liois
le Due.
An officer is just arrived from the prince
of Hefle at Maeftricht, with intelligence,
that on the 3d ififtant, the prince de Saxe
Cobonrg obtained a molt complete vi£lory
over the French, chaling them out of Aix
la Chapelle as far as Liege, with a loss, 011
their part, of 4000 killed, 260 prisoners,
and more than 20 pieces of cannon. On
the fame day prince Frederick of Btunf
wick took fonie batteries at Zwalme, kil
led 1300 of the French at Brugge, and took
700 prisoners, and marched to Rureinond.
The French retired from before Maef
tricht with precipitation, a:.d left some bag
gage and cannon. They had thrown above
6000 shells into the town.
London, March 9. The following par
ticulars of the defeat of the French before
Williamftadt, utre communicated to a
refpeftable merchant in this city, brought
by the mefi'enger arrived yesterday from
Holland. It is with an honest pride that
we have to (late, that apart of ourconntry
were actively engaged in so glorious a bu
finefi.
Capt. Manley, of the Syren, having pre
viously concerted the business with the
governor of Williamftadt brought his ship
to bear luccefsfully on the French army.
The French made an attack, in which they
were much annoyed by the fire of the E-n
---jjlilh frigate.
This, as it was unexpe&ed, Dumourier
was unprepared for. The garrison made
x rally, and 700 of the French were killed
by the fire of the garrison, and the Syren
together.
The French fell back, but returned a
gain to the attack—At this moment a fluite
was opened which had the delired effect—
upwards of loco of the enemy were killed
iy the fire of the Syren, the spirit and vi
gour of the garrison, and the cft'eft of the
inundation. Dumourier iound it in vain
toperfift. He abandoned his works, and
retired to the dillance of a league, up to
the middle in water.
The people at Auifterdam and Rotter
dam are in the utmost coufulion. They
liave packed up all their valuable moveables,
and are preparing themfeives on a mo
ment's warning for flight, but scarcely
know which way to take themfeives. Se
veral have endeavoured to obtain a pafiage
bv the packets, but there was no room—
others hired veflels which are to be in con
stant readiness to fail.
Netherlands, March 2. Official dispatch
from the Aultrian Gen. Clairfayt, dated
March ift. at Aldenhoven.
" This day has been perfefHy fortunate
for the imperial troops. Last night we
:i ofl'ed the Roer, and drove the enemy
Dotn from the quarter of Duren, and that
jf Juliers, to the distance of one league
Did a quarter beyond Aldenhoven. The
loss of the enemy in killed and wounded,
ncluding prisoners, to the number of 600,
imounts on the whole to 2000 men. Twelve
:annons, thirteen ammunition waggons, &
tlieir military chest fell into our hands.
" His royal highness the Arch duke
Charles attacked inperfon, this afternoon,
with the advanced guard, some batteries
.vhere there were 9 cannons, and took pof
"effion of them.
" Our loss amounts only to ten killed
Hid forty wounded. We particularly re
;ret, among the former, Col. dc Pfort
seim, and Capt. Mefmanchers.
" You will be so kind, General, as to
ommunicate this account to his Serene
Highness Duke of Brunfwick."
Dublin, March 12. The Lloyd's lifts of
helaftßritifh mails continue to give a dif
igreeable register of veflels captured by the
?neniy; the distress occasioned by which is
iut poorly afl'uaged bv the taking of three
merchant ships and half a dozen paltry pri
vateers by his majesty's ships of war in the
Rritifli Channel.
Sixty merchant ships under the convoy
of two frigates from London down the
channel, having lain to, in the night of the
14th of last month, underthe Isle ofWight,
two French privateers flole in among them
and took several by boarding them.
Paris, March 3. We are now in the most
profound tranquility. The plans of the in
nrgents, or more properly of their instiga
tors, are completely defeated, at least for
iheprefent. The examination now rigo
rously going on, will probably bring some
of the latter to punifhinent.
March 5. Letter from the Minister at
War to the Convention—" I think it my
duty to inform you, that I learn by a l etter
from General Valence, that the Fruflrans
to the number of 25, or 30,000 men, have
advanced to the Roer, to relieve Macil
richt, and that the movement of the enemy
induced Gen. Miranda to suspend the
bombardment of the place. This event,
of little importance in itfelf, may only o
blige us to attack it in form, and retard us
tome time longer. Such is the precise truth
of intelligence, which may be conlidered of
more importance than it delirves, and on
which it is my duty to fix the opinion ot the
National Convention."
On the 15th of February the Senate of
Hamburgh received orders from the em
pire to dismiss the minister of the French re
public within 48 hours,& from lower Sax
ony within 6 days. In consequence ofthis
step an emt argo is laid 011 all lliips of the
Hanfe towns in French ports, and orders
ili'ued to capture t hem wherever found.
The enemies of France have described
as a complete defeat the flight check of an
advanced port, which a finall part of the
French experienced near Aix la Chapelle.
The French made a retreat worthy oi
themselves, and the cause they defend :
they at present occupy an advantageous
polt, where they wait tor the junction ol
the two armies under Miranda and Va
lence (40,000 men) whoare rapidly mar
ching to support them.
For the National Gazette.
Mr. Freneau,
pROM the bitter complaints uttered in
the General Advertiser of the 26th ot
April, and in the National Gazette of lait
Saturday, by an Old fellow Soldier, I am
convinced he is wholly a flranger to the
principles of our people in puwer, or, in
other words, our peopleof tali.ion.
This, however, has nothing surprizing
in it ; and in such matters ignorance is
excufeable in a defender of liberty. We
soldiers, in fact, have very little know
ledge of any thing except fighting, and are
mere simpletons in the cunning arts ot
court intrigue. As my present (ituation
has perhaps afforded mt better opportuni
ty than the Old Soldier to make my obser
vations onthe polite world, if he will pro
mise me not to tell any body, I wiil entrult
him with a great secret. lam obliged to
take this precaution because I would not
choose that all the world ihould be ac
quainted with the principles of w hat are
called the well-bred, and likewise because
I am under fomelear left those, called by
certain gentry, the people, should take it
into their heads to ridicule them. Now,
as it is a rule with me to pay refpetl tc
all so far as they are really refpeifable, and
no farther, I will speak my sentiments ii
such a manner as to be underllood only
by those who have a right to underftar.c!
me.
Let me tell you then, my good friend
that yoii Ihould have cooked up a little dis
simulation with your complaints. Difli
mutation is the only virtue that pleases the
great ; for they abhor Jincerity, which ii
one of the principal faults they blame it
republicans. It is therefore out of season.
But let us return to the obje£t of youi
complaints.
You complain that certain people are
unwilling to give to citizen Genet, the
reception he deserves ; and conclude, that
if a salute of artillery was fired for a herd
of savages, who have scattered death and
desolation over our western frontiers, we
ought atleaft to pay the fame compliment
to the representative of a nation that has
lavilhed its blood and treasure to set the
United States free from the fliameful yoke
of Engiilh tyranny.
As you cannot be unacquainted with the
prodigions refpecl for, and attachment ol
some persons among us to royalty, I am
alloniihcd that you was 'so brief on this
fubjefr. In general, the ambassadors of
the Indians are commiflioned by kings, and
very often too the ambassadors themselves
are kings. You ought not to be surprized
then, if they are featted & pampered while
here, and if when they grow tired of the
capital, their majeflies are sent home la
den with wealth and royal presents.
Ifgreatguns arethe ultima ratio regum,
certainly, they ought only to be used to
announce the future arrivals of their moll
gracious tawny majejties. On such a prin
ciple, it would be absurd so far to mis
use the state or federal artillery as to sa
lute the representative of a nation, who,
like ourselves, dared to fay in the face of
the world, that men ought to be free and
equal, thatjovereignty re/ides only in the
people, and that the people are the foun
tain of all power.
Such do&rines, however, are at this
day, by many in the United State-s, reckon
ed mod abominably paradoxical.
My dear Old fellow Soldier, if I recol
lect rightly, yon fay something about GKA-
TjTujje due from independent America
to France, as a a nation. Alas, my wor
thy veteran !—Gratitude is not a plant of
this day's growth.—ll is absolutely a word
without an idea, a mere unmeaning found;
• r, if it does at all exist, it means that our
acknowledgements arc not due to the ita
tion that Hied its blood, and expended its
treasures even,to profusion, for our libe
ration; but to tlit king, «ho Signed ihe
official mandate.
I am flrongly of opinion, and I know so
much of the late couit 01 France, as si in
ly to belic\ e, that the king, in ligning trea
ties with the United State.-, knew nut what
he was alout ; for if he had been in
his senses, he would have been cautious
how he lent his liipport. \\ h ell was at that
time the upport ot the nation, to an en
raged mob, or rebels, (a the Americans
were then represented) who afpiied only
to be ranked among men, and conlVquent
ly could not otherwise than exhibit a dan
gerous example to those 26 millions of en-
Saved beings, whom Louis ca.lcd his sub
jects. .
My brave companion in the toils of war,
take not 111 evil part this lioneft remon
strance from your old corporal , and if at
our time of 1 fe we think it 110 longer pro
per to assume the pollil;ed and hypocriti
cal language of courts, be at least content
ed, with me, to drink your pint of small
beer Jans ceremtm/e, if you have any far
thing of money left, after paying taxes,
excites, and intert'ft upon certificates that
we were obliged to fell at 2s 6d in the
pound, to those v 110 have iince reaped
their harvest from our miseries, and now
have the complaisance to despise us.
AN OLD CORPORAL.
Philad. April 27. .
For the National Gazette.
Mr. Frenead,
C'OR Tome time part I have had it in my
mind to convey to the public, thro' the
channel of your paper, an iiiftorical lift of
the perfens who have been mafl'acred
ay command of those Eur< pean tigers,
who have the assurance to call themielves
:he lords and fathers of their people. And
this 1 do, in part, for the amujemert of
i/iofe in this country, who teem so highly
enamoured of royalty, or to fptak more
properly, of defjotifm.
No sooner, however, had I fairly enter
ed upon my talk, than 1 was convinced,
from the multiplicity of ro)al crtn es, that
whole volumes \\ oulci be nt ctilarv to ac
complilli my purpose. It was originally
my tlelign to proceed regularly back from
the age in which we live to those ren ote
times when hiltory mingles with fable;
beginning with the jVlachiavelian king
[Frederick II ] who brought the military
art to perfection ; and afeendi ig gradual
ly to the times when flour'flhed the fierce
Nimrod, the Frederic* <>t his age, [said to
be the firlt who invented the infernal art of
conducting men to (laughter, to the ca
dence of drums and tifir).
Finding it impraflicable fully to accom
pliihmy purpose, I fiiali content inytelf
with recapitulating two facts which are
too recent to be called in question. The
firft is extracted from _the works of the
late king of Pruflia. It appears f rom the
model! calculation of this- renowned mili
tary butcher, that avar of seven years,
that is to fay, a war from 1756 to 1763,
cost Europe eight hundred and sixty fix
ihoufand men ; and that duringthe long
reign of Louis the 14th, no lef> than fif
teen millions of men 1 ell victims to royal
ambition. Itis as utelefs then as it is end
less to follow these despotic barbarians
thro' ail their ambitious wars, with a
view of juftifying the French of the pre
sent age in cruihing into the dufl one of
those monsters, of a race stained with hu
man blood and carnage.
They find their thror.es in a 1110 ft tot
tering condition, and are exerting their
last efforts to prevent the total fall of def
potilin. In vain will they heap vifrims
upon victims—fall they mull—and their
deftru£lion will be accelerated by the very
resistance they make.
Let us then leave this monster, defpo
tifin, in that gulph of annihilation where
(he must soon forever remain, and unveil
the murderous acts of fanaticifm, that
monster with Medtifa's head, who has pal
lied all the human virtues, and transform
ed benevolent man into a ferocious mon
ster; who has engendered ignorance, the
most hideous plague of our species :—
Let us break that magic charm which ! as
proved so fatal to the world, and which
tho' perifning has flill ftrengtli enough
to afflict mankind. By exposing its baneful
effects let us render it odious to those \\ ho
may still be exposed to be led astray.
All enumeration of the crime? tommit
ted in the name of the God of peace h. s
been not very difficult to make 1 et. His
tory, for a long time back, is clear in this
matter ; whether it has been that religious
wars have teemed more odious than o
thers in the eyes ot despots themfelvcs, or
that the proscribed and perlecuted sects
have been more afliduous 111 recording the
history of their fufferings for the hei elit
of their posterity. I know not. Itis ike
ly however that by so circumstantially re
cording these bloody extravagances, they
were not without hopes that their dt fcen
dants would one day profit from the er
rors of the past, ?.nd avenge the blocd of
their ancestors.
I (hull now proceed to particularize thecourts, more strikingly deftruflive to the
human race, lince priejts have had influ
ence enough with tne civil power to pre
vent a free toleration of religious dpimon.
[To be continued in our next.]
BOSTON, April 18.
The ralh aucl xmpuiiLie interference of
the biitiih monarch in tne political con
cerns ot the iuencn, and the event ol the
\\ ar wnicn lias oeen declared between thuie
two eminent , will probably torm a
new epoch in tiiehillory ot huiiiaii attairs;
and perhaps, finally fettle tne ail iuieieli
ingvjucft.ua —Whether civil and religioua
liocii> wnl be permitted to exilt anj
"where; or wiic'thei the Ltiropean, in
im.iation Oi the American world, will ai
luine the privutge 01 eitabiiiiiing their own
CouUituuon, upon the only l'olid princi
ples ot equal rights, and natural juitiee.
in the decision ot this puiui, every conu
try, every family, ana every citizen is, no
douot, deeply and equaiiy coiieeriied.
Whatever be the ,-retexi, tne real motives
01 the Butiiii Cabinet, -re viewed tne iaiHe
ill trance at tins moment, a tney were
in tins country, in tne late revolution. —
i lie 1 fame objects are Uiereiore avowed 111
tile two cases— Ine lame ridK motis app. c
heiiiiou 01 arurcny and coutunoii —me
V fame contempt oi their enemies —liie lame
reproachesol cruelty and injulttce, Melaiuc
cha. 01 treal'on and rebellion agauitt tne
be.i Ol K-uigs jand tor tne 01 tneie ai
fertions, any unprejudiced mind need but
to rclei to tne feverai publications lr o 111
tliat inlidioiis court, againlt tins country,
from the year of tne Stamp-Act, to tne
conclulion of the peace.
1 lie latt and moil recent accounts tron.
our llluitnons anies and Drethien in It th*ct
art extrenieiy latistattory to every true
A,ii. t lean — i ney Have diluained tne wi et
ched sophistry ot courts, and avowed the
principles ol iree me n, in Lhe lace ot a com
biiiation ot powers and influence, which
could not tan ot luccels, it there was
any other nation in oppolition, than the
French —But the ltreng.h, wealth, num
bers, refoui courage and patriotilni ot
tnele deteruiiAcd republicans, mult inevi
tably defeat the deiigns o. their enemies,
however formidaole. Since the Roman
republic, nothing, in point of dignity and
re,oiution can be compared to tile mag
nanimity oi our Callic lriends. Surround
ed on all hands,they prelem ereiy where a
formidable : rone ; and an inipreliive pow
er. At one and the fame inltant, their
exertions and conquests ii) Sardi/.ia, in
Holla"d, in the Netherlands, and Germany,
and their menacing aspect, even upon the
unpolluted coatt ol Albion, d.inoulirate„
Ipirit, enterprizc and ability, which have
operated to spread alarm and conllernati
on from the Danube to tne J >ta >es.
By authentic pipers, which it is hoped
•wiil be publilhed in America there is no
doubrofthe late unfortunate king having
been hottile to tiie revolution, and in a se
cret intelligence with the during
the whole of the revolution. —In the midlt
of the storms which impend over their
country, the committee have prupofed the
plan of the new couifitutiun.—Tile Frencli
nation appear wonderluliy uni;ed—the Bri
tiiu merchants are d.tlitisned; and the
Dutch, very generally, particularly at Am
J}er-lam, are lit favour ot Dumourier's in
valiun. The lrifh are not pacified—but
the Spaniards wiih to to be >;titral i.. Lhe
war. The Danes Swedes, s>'d Tu/cans
have acknowledged the republic. The
Americans, no doubt, will cheertudy agtee
in cordial willies and acknowledgments
for their fucc:fs and independence, the
moment the new ambassador arrives at
Philadelphia.
If there is a union of despots to oppress
anddetlroy the freedom ol mankind, there
is no crime, surely, in a league of svilhes,
hopes and prayers, tor the triumph ot li
berty, and the downfall and extirpation
of royal tyranny throughout the globe.
It is remarkable, fays a correfponrlent.
that the minorities in the House of Com
mons, on the two great and interring
queltions upon the war againlt the repub
lic of France and America, were nearly
the fame, being 36 only in favour of paci
f anc ) conciliatory measures with this
country, and 40, for a manly acknowledg
ment of the Gallic Conftitutior.—While in
the House of Commons, the minority for
America was nine, and for a peace with
the French nation but THREE ; so that the
American interest was ftrongelt with the
Lords, andt le French with the Commons.
PHILADELPHIA.
W l DNESDAY, MAY 1.
On Monday last the Commissioners for
holding a treaty with the holtile Indians,
left this city on their route to the Indian
country. The time fixed for holding the
treaty is on the ift of June next.
On Monday evening arrived here the
brig Little Sarah, prize to l'F.mbufcai'e.
The fliip Grange being taken in Lhe bay, it
is said could not be coniidcrcd as a prize,
and was therefore difmilied.
The Indians are extremely troublesome
to trie- fettlcment ot the French emigrants
at Ualliopoiis, on the Ohio. On the 22nd.
ol March tiiey killed andfcalped a girl be
longing to the Cettlement ; about 120 let -
tiers remain there greatly dillieartened,
and the number daily decrealing.
From the a£tive preparations that are
making, it is anticipated that the
over tne Hackinfack and Puflaic will be
erected the ensuing fuminer, and be pall'able
next autumn. iVlr. Nottage, ot Bolton, is
arrived at Nmvark, for tuepurpofe of di
recting chefe important undertakings.
A Or. Gant, who had been committed
to the goal ot Baltimore, on suspicion of
having robbed the Ealtern mail, has made
his eicape. A generous reward will be
paid for apprehending him.
A New-Jersey paper complains of an ar
ticle 111 their Hate conititution, difqualify
ing any of their citizens from voting loi
representatives, &c. who is not worth jol
dear cllate. I here are many hundrt ds ot
lo.ie'i, ufetul citizeusin that ltate, who a. t
certainly not worth tlie value above I?>ei.-
.ioneii; it is certain lien that none ot thole
.an be justly called frtemtn, however they
nay choose to Haiter theinfelves with tlu
name. Due rotation in othcc is another
jreat delideratum in the United States.
Power is of an .ntoxicating nature, ano
romthe experience ot ages, no man ought
to be triilted with it more than two, or at
1110 ft lour years.
Extract of a letter from Cooper's Town, Ot-
Jego County, Jtate of New-York, April 9.
" We are encouraged to tranlmit to you
the statement we have been able to maki
from a&ual observation, of the qua itity ot
sugar, which has been made this season in
the former townlhip of Otfego, and which
was an entire wilderness in 1786. We find
upon a moderate calculation, that there
has been made at least i6o,coo;b. weight,
which, at 9d per pound, is equal in value
to ij,ooo dollars. This plain demonstra
tion of the importance of this article, will,
we hope, induce yon to continue your en
deavours to promote antl entourage it; and
we would fubniit to your confederation,
whether it is not an object of fufficient con
sequence, to claim the encouragement ol
the legiOattire of your ltate."
According to late accounts from Canada
J via Aibany) the difuffeftion of the Britifl
troops, there stationed, to the miiitary go
vernment of that province, is becoming
every day more alarming, and similar tc
that manifefted not long lince, by a patrio
tic band in F,urope, who, «pon discovering
that they were designed to march for the
territories of Franee, to oppose her righte
uus rtruggles for liberty, to a man laid
down their arms, and positively refufed tc
life them againlt a nation contending foi
freedom.
It is further added, that desertions were
daily taking place, in consequence of which
it was fa. nil necelTary, to H; e minute-guns.
in order to <lete£t them ; but that this kinc
of emigration had become so fafhionable,
that ali endeavour to prevent it proved ol
no avail A dislike to his highntfs, Prince
dw ard, was so generally prevalent amonj
the soldiery, that on his regiment being cal
led out, thofc who had any complaints a
gamlt him being delircd to hoid up theii
hands as a signal, the hands of all. excepi
ifergeant and a private, were im'medi itelj
raised > -anti in ll.ort, that a spirit of re-01l
was so prevalent among many, that govern
inent « ere under the neceffitv of using the
molt vigorous measures to " flint the eye 1
t>f the people,''who it seems, "begin tc
look about them."
M. Blanchard, the celebrated aeronaut
adopted citizen of the principal cities ir
Europe, penlioner of the French Republic,
and member of (everal academies of fci
2iices. &c. has erected a Rotunda in this
:ity (in Chefnut-llreet, a little above the
lew theatre; where he will for several day;
expol'e to public view, the superb balloon,
ivith which he proposes to take his 46th
lerial flight, accompanied by Mr. Joseph
Ravara.—This great balloon, the molt vo
uminous that ever was seen in Europe,
•vill be filled tw ice a day with atmol; h ri
:al air, viz. from 10 o'clock in the nurn
ng until 2 o'clock in the afternoon, and
from 4 o'clock, P. M- till dark-
The entrance is only one quarter of a
do! ai each person—On entering, every one
ill receive a very circumilantial printed
detail of all the operations, and of the pro
ofed experiment.
We hear from good authority, that the
Sparrilh government have ordered M.
Gardoqni, minister of finance, to negoci
ute with Mr. Carmichael, our minister at
the court of Madrid, relative to opening
the navigation of the Mifliffippi to the in
habitants of the United States.
The Pope's acknowledgment of the
French republic, must have a great influ
ence on the minds of the people ol* Spain,
and other papal powers ; and poflilsly may
prevent Spain, finally, from joining in the
combination of despotic powers against the
infant Hercules of Liberty.
A merchant of Liverpool writes thus to
his friend in Philadelphia, (date March 5.)
" I am sorry that 1 have it not :n my pow
er to fliip the remaining part of your order.
which chiefly consists of raised bottoms, for
want of the licence of the Privy Council.
I have offered to be bound in any fun), that
they should be delivered in Philadelphia—
but nothing would do ; as the colle£tor told
me, if 1 sent them to any velfel ihey should
be seized. 1 returned lalt week from Man
cheller, and find that they are nearly at
a (tand with the cotton bufiucfs, on account
of the war.
" I hear it whispered, but with what
truth I cannot fay, that several of the me
chanics in the cotton printing and fultian
line, are coming to America in the Spring
lhips."
Extract of a letter from Londonderry, da
ted March 3d, 1793-
" War being declared between France
and England, makes great commotions in
this island, the people are tooking for a re
form in Parliament, and are at present not
likely to succeed ; they are forming them
lelves into clubs and conventions in evtry
part of the north, and I think fiom evtry
tircumftance they appear ripe for a revo
lution. There is a continual talk of the
French landing an army in Ireland, which
ppears to be thelincere wish of nine tenths
of the inhabitants."
By authentic letters from Madrid of the
ift 01 March, last. we learn, that the king
of Spain had, on the 27th of February, ap
pointed his excellency Don Diego de Gar
doqni, to negotiate with the American ple
nipotentiary.
At that time war was not declared be
tween France and Spain, but appeared to
be inevitable, particularly as letters from
Cadiz of the 9th of March mention that the
French had captured fomc Spanish veflels;
and there were orders at Cadiz to {lop all
French \«. ilels in that harbour.
Several letters from England have men
tioned outrages bfcing committed on the
American mimfter at Paris, and one report
itatesthat hehad lolt his life in consequence
of a system of monarchical government be
ing found in his house, drawn up by him.
■ J ho'there is reai'oll to think these ac
counts ill founded (fays a correspondent)
yet it is to be apprehended that Mr. Mor
ris is not, at this time, a very popular cha
racter at Paris."
An ingenious artist has presented to the
French National Convention, for their ap
probation, and to be uled in their ships of
war, a new lort of hand-grenade. It is a
globe ol thick glass. filled with inflammable
air, which upon the h-.nd-grenade being
put inttf motion, immediately expands, and
burltsit into a thouiand pieces, spreading
vouudsand death in every direction.—
These grenades will keep any length of
time uninjured, provided they are not put
into violent motion. We do not hear that
ihe convention have yet adopted this new
implement of otfenlive warfare. —Another
invention has, however, been adopted lor
the use of the French infantry againlt the
German cavalry. This confifis of pikes 12
feet long and armed with a mufquet, which
upon occalion is detached in a moment,
and ready for use. Belides this, the pike is
furnifhed with a fall's muzzle about three
leet in length, of plate iron, fervnig as a
kind of cap to the 1 end of the real
pike; this being driven into the body of a
horse, remains there and leaves the long
pike again ready for inltant use.
" T he taking of Breda, by Dumotirier,
is thought a ver) ftirpriling victory : ior al
though it is a final! town, it is mod WOll
- fort.tied, ai d is surrounded by
three broad and deep ditches, one inlide
the other, and the lealt ol them as wide as
one of our iiarves in Philadelphia. The
gr.at French engineer, Viuiban, could not
take Breda in lets than ten months, and e
ven then it was reduced by famine to sur
render : flow different has been the success
of Dumonrier, who took it alter a cannon
ade of a few hours ! His army, however,
was very Itrong, and the belieged were,
many of them, more his friends than his
enemies."
A few days ago several Hollanders and
Englilhmen met in company in this city.
The conversation happened to fall upon
Dumotirier s expedition into the Dutcu
Netherlands, when one of the Englilhmen,
addrelfiiighimfelf to a Hollander, intimated
in his dif ourle that Dumourier's principal
object was, to plunder the Amtterciaai bank,
and the property of individuals — Ihe Hol
lander, with all that phlegm which charac
terizes the nation, replied —" If luch be
their objea, the French will not succeed.
An Englilhman's visit to St. Euftattus, will
put them wholly out of countenance !"—
The Englilhman made a long face, and
lneaked off.
There are many in this country (fays a
correspondent) from a cer. ain European
island, uho bccaufe they are worihippers
of the old royal house of Hanover & its lit
ter of kinglingi have the impudence to sup
, ofe that notwtthjiandivg all that happened
Jome years ago, Americans are to be drawn
into the vertex of their commercial and
political influence. Let such beware, and
fug small; the fptrit of America vibrates
with that of Fran, e, and when flie feels a
proper sense of her own dignity (lie will
lend men and supplies to allill in the noble
cause of ljberty, instead of fuffering her
real citizens to content themselves with
guzzling down bumpers to tnt picrfperity
ot the brave aliertors of the right:: ol ma .
Extract of a letter from Bourdeaux, dated
January 20, 1:93
" Grain is now very scarce here, and de
manded at the prices beiow ; also, all arti
cles ofprovifion; and the demand likely to
lontinue during the -war,or until a plenti
ful crop fnpplies the real and irr senary
wants. The value of the aflignats has con
siderably depreciated lately, and exchange
on England is now s<l. ilf. per livre, un
■ ertain and fluctuating. Articles of fub
f.rtence do not fludiuatevvith the exchange,
tlio' it is the thermometer for mcft others.
This m iy be attributed to the system adop
ted by the government for procuring their
fnpplies thro' agents of government, and
not in the ordinary channel of commerce.
Wheat and flour are not higher now than
in November when exchange was :d per
livre, or thereabouts. Tobacco is ready
fale,and not a great provilion in market.—
There is a late decree of the Convention
to arm immediately 30 fail of the line and
jo frigates which, added to the number al
ready equipped of 22 f»il of the line and
30 frigates will make a confiderabie fleet.
I'he sailors, carpenters,, rope-makers. Sic.
&c. are clafled as under the former go
vernment ; and they have hitherto gone
off without murmuring to the dock y ids,
and I think they will continue to gd, at
lead from this and the neighbouring [ laces,
\\ ithout difficulty. A war with England
and Holland is thought inevitable, and the
underwriters refufe ail premiums of insu
rance. Exchange, London 15 3-4 to 1-2
—Amsterdam 30 to 29 3-4 —Madrid 2^ —
Wheat 23 to 241. per boifleau—Flour
52 to 55 per barrel—lndian corn 12 per
boifleau—Rice 36 1038 per cut. —Tobac-
co 40 to 60 per ditto—Whale oil 50 to 55
per ct. —Spermaceti do 80 to Bj—Whale
lione common fliort 16010200 perewt. —
Beef 60 to 80per barrel—Pork 90 to 110
perdo.—Pota(h7oto76 per cwt.—Pearl
ditto, 70 to 80 per do.
Heads of the most recent intelligence from
Europe.
The French were making the molt ac
tive preparations for earning on a marine
war with vigour, and to hi nut a fleet f 1 on
Brest, equal to the united force of the Eug-
Hlh ; 50,000 seamen had been ordered to
Brest for that pur^ofe.— Ihe Pope had
\\ ritten a letter to the Convention at Pal is,
acknowledging the republic of France, and
exprelling his regret ror the murder of M.
Bafl'eville, and two others by the pi pn!ac«
at Rome. —The French ambafl'ador lu'd
made his efcapc from Madi id. (where he
had not dared to (hew himfrlf lince the
death of Louis) —The Convention at Parii
had decreed that all the ports ol the French
colonies in the Weft-Indies, (hould beopen
to American veflels, paying the fame duties
as French veflels—Reports were in circu
lation, thattheOttomanemperor was dead,
and that his fuccefldr was preparing for
war against Ruflia.—ln Ireland the govern
mental forces were every where disarm
ing the pc pie, except in the north; and
even in L/üblin the artillery belonging to
the volunteers had been seized by the mili
tary— Jhe new French Constitution had
been reported by the committee appointed
to draft the fan e. Jt lonfiftso! bill of
rights. The legislature is to consist of one
honfe of reprelentatrvcs, to be elected an
nually ; the executive, of seven pri: cipal
ofneers, each to act as prelidmt alternately,
for fourteen days. A new convention to
be called in twenty years, to revile and im
prove the constitution. The army to be
under the contioul of the executive. The
punilhment of death for all private offences
to be aboldiied, and all foreign conquests
renounced— (see our laft.)—The Algerii.es
had declared wai aguim't the Dutch, and
hoililities were to com ence ihe 13th of
February—lhe French had commenced
hoililities against Spain, and captured seve
ral of their veflels : all the French ftiipping
in the Spanilh ports had been seized,
ay French fubje4ts ordered to le ve Mad
rid within 24hours, and the kingdom with
in 20 days.
On Sunday night last, a fliip caught fire
in this port (the Mary, Capt. Coily, of
Newburyport.) Her quarter deck, cab
bin, and mizen mast w ere contained. 'I he
cargo, however, was little or nothing in
jured.
•3f§* LES Francais et les defcendans des
Francais font invites afe trouvcr a une af
femblee qui fe tiendra ce loir a sept henres
a l'erifeigne de Bunch of Crapes, dans le
troilieme rue, entre la rue du marche et
Arch-street.
Department of State, to wit.
is hereby given, to persons in-
terefted in the property or the proceed -
ings of Claudius Paul Raguett, a citizen of
Pennsylvania, lately deceased at Bordeaux,
in France, that on application at the office
of the Secretary bf State, they may receive
information relative thereto, as transmit
ted by Mr. Fenwick, Confulior the United
j States at Bordeaux.
GEO. TAYLOR, iun. Chief Ck.
| Philadelphia, April 3c, 1793-For the National Gazette.
Mr. FreneAu,
THAT the court langusge of Mo
gulflan fi.ould have already found
its way into the fequeilered abodes of our
north weltern territory, I could hardly
have fuppoftd, had not a late tdift by tin
governor pro-tempore of that territory as
certained the fatt. This extraordinary
edict I net with in your pcper No. 149
Indeed, take the performance all in all.
and I predict we (hall not soon fee its like
aga n in the United Stats.
Every line embraces the features of mo
narchical llyle, mid while the confpicuou;
WE appears the fountain of emanativc
authority, the no less important OUR
dilcovers what some people would be at.
did circumstances admi:.
What an immensity of ideas are crowdec
into those three little words, " during our
pltafure !" — Alas ! pleasure ought noi
to be the pursuit of men of counsels ; anc
the judges who were honoured with thi
lof:y founding commiflion cannot be fuf
ficiently venerated for rejecting an ap
pointment during thepleafurt of any sub
ordinate officer whatever.
This commiflion has awakened in ma
ny persons (trange ideas of what will ir
time take place in this country, unless th<
French keep a good look-out, and fee thai
we rem in «• Staunch Republicans."
This commiflion is Ike a trout pye
that will ftiek in an American's throat
for want of being well cleared of ribs an
back bones.
It is a fix weks old p'g, that fhoulc
be roajled for the good of the company
It is inu ton broth made of bear's beei
and goose-giblets.
It is calves lie .d turtle soup, that could
not be mpofed tor such on good judges.
In short, considering time, place, and
circumllance, it is every thing but what it
should be ; it is a molt extraordinary
phenomenon ; heterogeneous, heterodox,
and heteroc ite ; a bundle of inconsistency
and republican absurdity : but being now
dead, (as holy mother church fays over
her deceased charge), requiefcat in pace.
may it reft eternally in peace !
Delaware, 26th April 1793.
For the National Gazette.
THERE are some performances in
the literary walks of men, which
are difgraceful to the honest dignity of
human nature. Among these mayjuftly
be reckoned laboured eflays, paying tul
some adulation to temporary officers of
government. An upright, well intenti
oned official character will disdain and re
jest the servile flattery of devoted syco
phants, who for private ends, a treasury
luncheon or a grin of condecenfio i, are
willing to facrifice every idea of independ
ence, and become the contemptible tools
of what they vainly suppose to be power.
Puffing off the fervams of a republic is
an i republican, and ever more betokens
meanness of condition, or betrays some
finitler design. The people have set up
no man or men to be worshipped in this
country, and indeed the federal govern
ment by allowing its administrators such
profufe salaries as it ha , seems tacitly to
have intimated to the whole sycophantic
tribe, that the praises and puffings of in
dividuals would be fuperfluous, the high
salaries being meant to exclude all laudato
ry compensation whatever for their offici
al services. The approbation of 3 good
officer is the silence of the people.
A late fulfome ".'-ritcr, of the cad de
fcrihed in the beginning of this eflay, has
lately appeared in the Gazette of the
United States, who seems gifted with un
examp ed povtrty and baseness of spirit "
I am nolo 'y (fays he) and Mr. H—is le
cretary of the treasury !"—Nobody, Sir!
what do you mean by nobody ?—ln a
republic every honell and ufeful member
of the community is fome'ood\> and at least
equal to any secretary or any public efficer
wh tevcr, as a man, in the scale of poli
tical confluence. Mult not the secreta
ry of the treasury, and every man of sense,
blush at such abominable trash as what is
below quoted, and call upon the red light
nings of Jove to blall the wretch, who al
tlio' probably member and citizen of a free
republic, da.es to avow himfelf nobody,
and at the fame time in the front of a
iicwfpaper/neplafters a public officer
with filch Gckening fluff as what follows,
iz. 'He is one of the brightest jewels in
Columbia's Crown.—As a pillar in the fe
deral building he seems to unite the soli
di y of the Doric order, the delicacy and
elegance of the lonic, and the touching
beauty of the Corinthian, &c. &c. &c.
0 adulatores,Jervile pscus, regit us certs
dig'-
Philad.April 24..
' PHIL AD E L PhTAT"
In our paper of April 6th, mention was
made of a certain resolution being prefent
:d to the Pennsylvania House of ri(Terribly,
ending to the impeachment of John Ni
;holfon, Esq. the comptroller-general of
his commonwealth. The assembly h;.viiig
jroceeded thereon, but left the hufinefs
indetcrmined ; Mr. NichoKon has notified
he public as follows :—" I am advised
:h:it it will be improper in the present cir
:umflances, to bring before you tne merits
)f rnv cause, on the fubje£t of the articles
Df impeachment which you have ktely seen
in the public papers. I was anxious that
an invelligation of those charges should
have taken place before the adjournment of
:he legislature, that jufticc might be done,
and you be acquainted with the fadls, and
I prefied it witn all my power. As the
opportunity is !ofl until another feflion, all
I have to request is, that my fellow-citi
zens and the public will suspend their judg
ment until I have an opportunity to be
heaid."
The ship Industry, from Bengal, in the
East Indies,* arrived at Norfolk in Virgi
nia, on the 15th of April. The night be
fore she made the Capes of Chelapeke,
whiltt tunning at the rate of nine knots,
(lie unfortunately flruck a fchoone upon
her quarter ; from the dreadful cries of the
people on board the schooner, and her dis
appearing r.lmoll immediately, it is fuppo
fed she mull have funk—the force of the
blow carried away the Indultry's bowsprit
and cut-water; after which accident, it
ivas thought dangerous to put the (hip
about."
EXTRACT.
In a republican government, every man
or member of the republic, ought to be a
politician in a degree, perhaps not so much,
nr so great as to be able to write on po i
tics a.-curately an I learnedly, but at lead
he ought to be so far informed, as to the
nature of the three great dillinftions of go
»ernments, now existing among the inha
bitants of the wo Id, (viz.) monarchy,
arillocracy, and democracy, as to be able
to judge with tolerable p ecifion, and un
derflanding, what man is of pure democra
tic principles, and in whose hands the re
public will be the most lik ly to flourifli
and continue unimpaired; then he can vote
for his rulers with fafety ; and I am fully
persuaded, that no means can be invented
to disseminate such kind of knowledge, fc
univerlally among all classes of people fc
well as through the medium of judicioui
news papers. In them are essays more 01
less on each kind of government, and in
formation of every thing which happens in
every one of the three different kinds. Ii;
Spain he will fee ihemilerable situation 0]
a people groaning under the a'ofolute noc
of a monarch, forbidden on pain of deatl
to read, or speak on the present politics o:
France. In England, which is a mixture
of all tl ree ; a king who is a monarch, i
house of loids, who are arillocats, and tht
commons who are called democrats; there
he will find that by the abfo'utenels of •
king, and the intrigues of the lords, the
commons have become almolt a mere name.
& the people deprived of more than three
quarters of their ancient privileges, anc
liberties,and that nothing short o{ a blood)
revolution will prevent them from degene
rating into the mod abject slavery. In
France he will fee the horrid and dreadful
situation of a people compelled to fight all
the crowned heads in Europe, combined
together,to regain that liberty which they
once enjoyed, and which by the God of
nature was given them to enjoy equally
with all mankind.
In America, he will with pleafure,view
the happiness of a free people, enjoying
all the iweets of a pure democratic govern
ment ; he will fee everv man enjoying his
own property unmolested, choosing h s
own riders, enacting his own laws, and the
uncontrouled mailer of his own a£lions
He will be led to bless God in holy rap
tures, thai he was born to poflefs such pri
viieges; that he yet lives in a land where
he may fit under his own vine, and under
hi 3 own figtree, where .none are sou.id to
hurt or mole It him. He will then leriouflv
resolve and determine that he wi ! i do his
endeavours to hand these great blessings to
pollerity unimpaired ; and previously afiill
in putting a speedy end to those abuses
which have already in tome degree menaced
our liberty; by a iervile copying of, and an
adherence to systems, that have always in
their operation, proved fatal to the liber
ties o! mankind, wherever faiFcred to exilt
for any kngth of time.
He will conceive it his duty to attend
the annual, or periodical eleition of his ru
lers and magiilrates : to natch againfl the
intrigues of Uefigning men, and vote f:r
men ot pure democratic principles ; men
cf knowledge and abilities; men of reli
gion and virtue. lam informed that at
the late, meeting of the freemen in this
ILte, people more generally attended, than
has of late been usual, yet it is supposed
not one half of the freemen were present.
I hope that in our next freeman's meeting,
which will be in four or five month-., every
freeman will conceive it his duty to attend
to the important business of that day, and
attend not only to choosing his reprefeHta
tivrs, but that he will not leave the meeting
till he has given in his twenty votes for ho
nell, able, reli.ious democratic principled
men, to Hand in nomination for afiiltaiits.
I Have claims to about two hundred and
fifty thuulana acres of LAND in the (fate of
Kentuckey, m different pares of that country,
Com of which 1 know to be equal to any ; all
of wh ch l am inclined to tiilpole of, either by
entire sale, or by admitting one, or two partners,
Co whom the agency on the whole will be con;
mitted.
One fourth of the contra# will be required in
hand, either in cash, merchandise, or such a net $
as may be converted to attive use, the refiaue
may be apportioned in convenient inflalments.
The purch&fers to give security, on the land,
i>r orherways,as suits them.
Knowing that there is a prejudice the
titles of land in that state, which is more general
r han just, 1 am willing to stipulate in the con
raft, that a discount, or dedu&ion, fhaO be
n aae, where any land may be loft,' by realon of a
lefeQfive title.
Any person inclining to such a f>urchafe, is re
juefted to write to me by polt, in answer to
.vhom, more particular information will.he uiven.
ti EN RY BANKS.
Richmond March 20, 1793* 2a w tf.
N E W B~ 0 0 K S.
ROBERT CAMPBELL,
No. 54, outh Second Street,
Ha receive» b. th Ship Geofpe Barr'ay
A large affortmvit cf BOOJCS,
AmOi g which are,
Viner's Abridgment of Law and Equity,
/ols.
iV. B. Subfcript'tcns are receved fo >■ the above
work at 4 Dollars per Volume, 4 Volumes wi Ib
'eceived every fix months till the iv.tr k is toirpletcd,
lobi h loill'beiti the course cf eighteen month*•
Croke's Reports, 4 vols.
Lord Raymond's. Repoits, 3 vols.
VatteFs Law of Nations
C Digest, 6 vols
Guthries Geography, a new edition in 4 to.
AMth elegant coloured maps.
Boyer's French and Englifii Dictionary in 4oc
8 vo«
Hume's History of England, 8 vols—Same
aoolc with Smollet's continuation, 13 vols, ele
gantly gilt.
Mofheim's Ecclesiastical Hiftorv,6 \c!s.
Gibbon's Roman History ; vols, gilt or
plain
Nicker on Executive Power, 2 VOI9.
Hiitory of ancient Europe, 2 vols
Lavatcr on Physiognomy abridged
La ge family Bible wi h elegant cuts.
Chapcaii's Chemirtry, 3 vols
Munro's do. 4 vols.
Underwc oi on Children, 2 vols.
Clarke on the dileafes common in long voy»
2 vols.
on Fevers,
Metherby's new Medical Di&ionary.
Gaidner on the Gout.
P ,tt*s Chirurgical Warks, 3 vols.
Nicholfon's Chemistry.
Lee on Botariy.
Whiteon the diseases of Lying-in Women,
fee. &c.
R. C. Will rrceive by the ariivalof the
lrft velTels from Dublin and Glai\'ov, a ad-
Jition to his prek-nt extenfire aff>rtment of book
1 mongft which will be copies of ail the new pub
icationsof merit.
April 13. ?.nw. r-.f.
J UST PUBLISHhL/,
[ Price one quarter of a dollar J
THE
LAWS
|>F THE
UNITED STATES,
Pafled at the lalt Seilion of Cougrefs, which
complete vol. 11.
Publi/bed by Authority.
A Complete INDEX is added for the volume
Philadelphia—Printed by CniLDsfef Swain e,
Printers of the Laws of the United Slates; and
fold by them at their Office No. 209, IViarket-
Street ; also by tie principal Bookiclltirs, \%he;e
vol. I. is to be had.
JUST PUBLISHED,
Ancl to be fold by Thomas Dobk.v, Wil
liam Young, Roeert Campbell,
Messrs. Rice and Co. and Join M-
Culloch, No. i. North Thirc-ftreet,
A N EXAMINATION of the late pro
ceedings in Congress refpeciing the
official condu£t of the Secretary of the
Treasury; with Observations, &c. on the
application of loans from Holl ml, negoci
ated under the atls of the 4th and 12th of
Augult 1790. —The price of the above
pamphlet is three sixteenths of a dollar, or
is 41!. 1-2. April 44. 2a\v tf
Harrijburgh Mail Stage.
STARTS every Wednesday from Mr. Henry
Epply's in race street, between third and
fourth streets, and arrives at Harrilburg.il on the
Saturday morning following—Starts from Mr.
C abb's, innkeeper, H?rrifburgh, op. Monday
«ind arrives on Wednelday at Philadelphia.-—
N. B. The Reading stage starts from Reading,
at John Witman's, innkeeper, on Monday, and
arrives at Philadelphia on Tuesday morning-
Then starts from Philadelphia on Friday morn
ing at 4 o'clock, and arrives at Reading on Sa
turday morning. The greatest care and attenti
on ihall be paid by the publics 1 humble iVrvant.
WILLIAM COLEMAN.
N. B- A light upon fprrngs, with two
horses, or without hotfes, with complete geers,
may be had at any moments' warning, for the
accommodation of ladies and gentlem< n, by ap
olying to the above named Wm. Coleman, living
ii the borough of Reading.
To ihofe Concerned in MILLS in the
United States.
QLIVER EVANS, late of the state of
Delaware, informs the public, that he
has removed to Philadelphia, No. 437,
North Second -street, where he will thank
fully receive any applications for the ufeof
his i'atent Improvement. on Mills, and the
art of manufacturing flour. Hewillfur
nilh those who are not fufficiently acquain
ted with the principles of his improve
ments, with drawings and definitions,
that will enabL- them to erett all the
different machines ncceflary to perform the
operations of cleaning, grinding, boulting
aud of boulting over the middlings or eoarfe
meal, and grinding it over with the grain,
lo as to finilh all together, thereby making
the greatert quantity of fuperfine flour that
the grain will produce atone operation.—
He has been nt much expense in collecting
the different and most approved conllruc
tions of mills and plans for boulting. and
the quality, lizt, &: manner of drelling the
milllipnes, suitable to the power of the
mill, and quality of the grain : & will assist
in planning mills from the foundation, and
make drawings thereof, if required. He
has for sale, boulting clothrand iliill-ftones
ot the firft quality, at the lowelt prices,
which he will warrant. If the Hones prove
not good, they will be received again and
:lie colt of carriage paid Those who ap
ply for either Hones or cloths, wi.l please
:o mention the power of the mill, size of
he boulting-rcels, qua'iity of the grain,
ind on w hat bn<; lefsit is to run. Orders
jy post, or other wife, will be as punctually
attended to as if the parties were pre'fent.
April i». .31 iaw
TO THE PUBLIC.
TXTHERE AS an attachment at the iuit of Sam
uel and Nathaniel Imlay, executors
5f the testament and last will of Peter Imlay, de
eafed, has ifl'ued out of the Supreme Court of
Judicature of the state of' New-Jersey, against the
ands of Garret Voorheis, late of the county of
M ddlefex, and state aforefaid, returnable to the
firft Tuesday in September, seventeen hu... red
ind ninety two Notice is hereby given o the
Paid Garret Voorheifc, thar unleTs he pear and
file special bail to the said a&ion,* ju .merit
will be entered against him, by default, and ine
ands so attached fold for the fatisfa&iou of such
if his creditors as {hall appear to be ju 11! > e titled
:o any demand thereon, and shall apoly for that
>urpofe, according to the form of the fiatute in
"uch cafe made and provided.
By or.ler ot the Court,
April 17. iaw. ly HOWELL, Clk
Journeymen Saddlers
WANTED,
By the Society of Matter Saddlers of the city
of Philadelphia—-Fifteen or twenty work
men oftheabove profefiion,wi!lmeet with conftanc
employment anr, generous by applying 10
WILLIAM JONES, Sec etiry to the society. at
No. 3, South Front street.
April 24. 23w
A FEW COFIES OF THE
TRANSACTIONS
Of the Society fnjiituted in the State of
New-York, for the promotion of
AGRICULTURE, ARTS, and MANU
FACTURES,
May be had at this Office.
[Price half a dollar.]
Jan. 5.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS and SWA IN E.
at THEik orncr. no. 2 9, hk.u-vi ► , ax,
NI A K FIFTH ST RUT,
}■ .; i rll \ itl«