By P.FRENEAU: (at No. 20), Market Street) Publifkcd Wednesdays and Saturdays, [Three Dollars ptr annum'.']
Numb. 68 of Vol. ll.]
To the Author of " VERITAS."
S /A.
ry ii r ;t letter was written and sent to
press on Friday lalt, too late to have a
chance of appearingjn Mr. 1" reneau's Ga
zette of Saturday, or according to the ge
neral rules of newspaper writers, I Ihould
have fe;it it to him tor publication. as your
jetters came out from his press, and the an-
Aver ought to folk w the lame course :
but lir, tne subject was important; your o
pmiuns, confined in the origin to a few,
were in danger ot spreading among that
uleful and valuable class of the coniniunity
who are not versed in the art of decepti
on, who not meaning themselves to de
ceive, are too apt to be imposed upon; lor
that realon only I deviated from a good
general tine, which always admits of ex
ception', and for the fake of ipeedy publi
cation fcnt my letter to Mr. Dunlap—l
now proceed through the fame channel to
take some notice of your third letter.
Your tirit paragraph is exactly in the
stile and manner of your two preceding
favours ; puffed up with your own imagi
;-iry importance, you think you should be
guil tv of treafou if you did not volunteer
it, by otf.ring yonrfell" as the l'relident's
counsellor, to warn him to dtfmifs those
whom the conllitution acknowledges, and
whom tue Senate of the United States
hive approved. You remind him that he
)•> a servant whose conduct is to be govern
ed by the will of rile people, as expreil'ed
in the laws & the conltitution ; and with
out entering into any argument, or giving
him anv advice, you proceed to examine
a id cross-examine him, as if he were a
witness in a court of juflic*, in order to
get from his own mouth something to cri
nii late his character and dellroy the force
of his evidence, or by his silence, to pre-,
fume his guilt.
I liave never been intruded with any
secrets of the (late, nor can 1 anlwer any
oueition which relates to the internal con
tiuft of the cabinet; but 1 think your quef
tio is are of such a nature, thai any mail
who had been in this country but a (hurt
time would not have alked them, nor could
have been at a loss for answers to them.
We know, lir, th3t the emperor of Ger
many and the king of Pruflia, who engag
ed in the war witii France some time ago,
never sent an armed (hip into the Ameri
can seas, and that America hns net Tent a
Ihip of war into the European leas ; so that
there could be no poflible need of a pro
clamation of neutrality in 1792. But, lir,
in April 1793, after France had declared
■war againlt Britain, Holland and thefove
veign city of Hamburgh; when a like de
claration was hourly expected aj-ainlt
Spain and Portugal, and which have since
come out, all of those.nations with whom
the United States have a constant inter
course, whose liiips are frequently vilitino
our ports, and ours, theirs—l fay, lir, tha:
in \pril 1793, the French frigate PEm •
b ifcade arrived at Charleston, and landed
Mr. Genet, ambaH'ador from the republic
of France to wurs. Advices received Irorr
thence announced, that private vessels were
taking commitlions from the French am.
balFad'or, to cruise in our Teas, against al
the enemies o> France, many of whon:
were our allies. This was the moment
when it became the duty, of the President,
the guardian of the honour and fafety oi
the United Hates during the recess ot Con
gress, to come forward with a proclamati.
011, warning the citizens of the conse
quence of their joining in hostilities againtl
any of the belligerent powers. This, lir.
is a good reafou why the proclamation was
not i(Tiled before, and why it was ifiued al
the time it bears date.
You fay, "The onduct of our govern
ment, with relpect to Great Britain, has
*or some years part been (hamefully pufil
-1 r.imous," and immediately proceed tc
acknowledge that you do not know what
it has been ; you boldly call for a publica
tion of their councils, in order that you
m;*y know whether you have charged them
wiu'i or without foundation ; and then hold
out the idea, that it w ill be juitifi ble for
the people to take the law into their own
hands, and make war without the leave 01
the persons to which the constitution has
cnti ulVed that prerogative. This hint, lir,
approaches much nearer to treafou than
your not warning the firft magistrate, as
mentioned in your exordium
Your next paragraph is an extraordinary
one indeed. You fay that, "Since writing
your lull,you have learned with regret that
Bhofe citizens who complain that oiy trea
ties with France were violated bv the pro
elaniation, couitl'ued it "Pray, fir,
S A T U E. D A Y, June 22, 1793.
let me afl; you how you dare to write you
two preceding letters, before you at 4e.i(
enquired, whether ilie proclamation reali;
was a violation of the treaties or riot:
Had you made the enquiry fill 1 , and beei
uiilintormed, you might have the excufi
>f ignorance, which, tho' a lame one
night have keen given as a palliation
ut 11 )w, in your th rd letter, to come lor
ward and acKiiow ledge that your informa
ton « ,:s polVerior to your 111 ode It atra<l
upon the J'refident. deferv'es a severer re
proof chan I am accustomed to give to anj
Dddy.
\oi r ignorance of treaties, of the law
ofnat c and nations.of tile condtV&of go
veriiifi. t, and of tlie wefckrefs of your
own tfii ts. would have rendered youi
perforni.il.ces mm orthy of any answer, .1
there was not lomithing due to the mi
vary citizens, vt ho might have been mi fief
by fonie 'igh founding phrases, which yot
have borrowed from other wii*er c l ir.ai
thprefore p oceed, inttead of folljwinj
your aMurdicies, to inform my fellow citi
zens. us well as I am able, on the lubject:
you seem so incapable to treat of.
By tile 17th articl- of the treaty of an i
ty and commerce w i France, provifioi
is made that, "It Ihouid be lawful lor tlif
Ihips of war of i irlier ir; , and privateer:
freely to carry wliitherlofrver t ey please
the ihipi and goodo : . u!r m their ene.
mies, without being n.-r to pay an)
duty to the office- ol li. admiralty oi
any other judges, i.oi li.il tuch prizes be
arretted or fuz i ii hen itiey come to, o,
enter the port# oi niipr party, ner 1i• aI!
the fearchee o i. officers otthofe place:
search the faun ( make examination con
cermng tin I,' V uluefa ol Inch prizes ; bul
they may -oil fail at anytime, and de
part and carry their prizes to the places
expreiled in th ir coniinifhons whe 1 the
coiiinai ders of fu-h Ihips of war ill all be
obi i,c ;l to (iieW
Now, fir, there is no lung in all this that
iii.thoi izes a Freiuh fliip of war or priva
teer to bring or P'lid her prizes into any o
our ports tor sale, but o lyforfafety, and
to proceed away with theiw, when they
(hall think proper ; tliey come in, in po«-
fellion of thein, and we are not to enquire
mto the legality of their pollitllions; we
are to suppose they h*ve aright to them
because they are the oflenlible owners;
and if tiiey t ike them away as they came,
there is an end to the butinefs. But ii they
will land the cargoes and advertile those
and the reffels for sale, the cal'e is altered.
No man can prevent another, in any free
neutral country from demanding or filing
for his property ; if therefore the captors
of those prizes have gone further than the
treaty authorizes, the former owners or
their agents, being here, have a right to go
into our courts of law to claim their pro
perty; and this is all that I can learn has
been done. In the very paper that con
tained your third letter is a paragraph in
these words "the (hip Willam captured by
the French privateer. Citizen Genet, and
the brig Fanny, a prize to the Sans Culot
tes have been libelled against by their for
mer owners as illegal prizes." This in
formation you might have had before yon
wrote, as it had been in prior papers ; and
altho' no man is bound to enquire, or know
all the tranfaclions in a large city, yet it is
certainly the duty of every man to inform
himfelf well upon any fubjeft on which he
is about to w rite and make a clamor ; bad
ynu taken this precaution, you mult be ex
tremely ignorant indeed, it you would not
have been (atisfied that such a proceedinp
was according to the law of nations, ant:
not incowlifteiit with any treaty, by the
law of nations foreigners have a right tc
sue and may be sued in the courts of justice
of any civilized power: and the only plea
that can be made to the disability of the
complainant in this refpe.fl is, that he is ar
alien enemy : if we did not admit this pri
vilege, our country would soon be the afy-
pirates, robbers, infolveiv
debtors and fugitives from jullice, ot al
other countries. As this fubjett appear:
now to be before the proper tribunal to tri
the legality of the capture, I am not at li
berty to treat of it ; it is contrary to law tc
bias the public mind by efl'ays or diflerta
tions in newspapers. The cause is to be
tr.ed in court, and not by the people in the
campus martins ; the court is to be open ;
the people may attend in as great numbers
as the walls of the house will contain :
council will be heard on both fides, andthe
court will publicly pronounce a decree ;
this is the mode pointed out by our conlli
tution, and the laws of the land, and no
country can be denominated free cither
w here juflice is administered in private, or
where the catife can be drawn from the
judges and tried bv the people at large ; or
in newfpapcrs. I am warranted in this
doctrine by the decision of our supreme
court anil general allembly in the cafe of a
printer in this city of a recent date.
The fame reaion prevents me from en
tering into the cafeof the '-two men, for
merly citizens of the United States, but
lately in the lervice of France, who have
beenfeized and thiovvn into jail, to be tri
ed hy our laws for a violation of the neu
trality declared in your proclamation.
The law will determine whether they have
violated it or not, and i Ihoulil not attempt
to pubiilh my opinion, if I had formed ont
on the subject which I have not. But 1
cannot pass over your manner of bringing
this matter forward ; your
tiat it is fur breach "of the
dared by the Prelident s proclamation,'' is
equivocal, and may b< iwiirtrued in two
ways ; I should have taken the mod fa
vourable one, to have been your meaning,
if you had not otherwise coiiltrued it
yoni I'elf in the fame letter, w here you fax
"permit me to afkfir, whether you think
yoiirfelf verted with legal powers to an
not folemw treaties by proclamation ?"
Thisevidcntlj'fheus that you meant to in*
(innate tlvat the offence charged oil these
men the proclamation, and not
againd the neutrality ; and is a proof how
little you know, or how little you regard
truth, which >ou have afiumed as your fig
rnttnre. 1 told you, in my former letter,
that proclamations did not make law, and
tnat the Prefideni had attempted 110 such
tiling ;& I (hali not rilk, with any body but
join fclf, or your coadjutors if you have a
ny, the being called a sycophant" by fay
ing that.this is a base attempt to cajumi-
charafler that, 1 trull, is above the
reach of anj of your pc/'foneil arrows.
The treaty with Britain pnd the conduff
of the British towards us would require an
efiay or perhaps a volume by itfelflotlo
the subject judice; and I have neither time
nor inclination to undertake the work;
the truth is that I ?m of opinion with Field
ing, ' that a man may either write or fptnk
the better for underdanding the fubjefl,''
and it would take a good deal 0} time, to
collect ftfhcient materials for undertaking
filch a work ; but I can fee plainly enough
that you know nothing about the mattei.
The treaty Sir, contains reciprocal engag
ments, and I have heard that they have
been the fubjeft of much corre'pondence be
t« een theminiffers of the tw opowers; that
much arguments has been uied 011 both
fides, and that neither can, or does, boast
of a compleat victory over the other. The
subject is an extremely delicate one for a
newspaper; and as I am too good a citi
zens, to betray any interest of my country
for any confederation whatever, I don't like
to repeat, even what I have heard of, the
arguments nfed by the Briti'fh; especially
in a controvcrfy with you, lead in my
warmth of anf\\ering you, I might con
cede more than is proper for any private
citizen to do ; for a private citizen, tho'
wholly unknown, may drop a hint or dart
an argument, that the other fide may make
some advantage of. I fliall therefore only
fay, that the Britilh have given some rea
sons for not evacuating the north-weflern
ports, that have at leart plausibility on their
iide, and that they have been anfvvered by
persons, who underlland the fubjeft with
great ability. Wherefore I think that you
and I had better leave the matter to be
fettled, by those to svhoin the constitution
and laws of the land, haVe intruded the
important duty of making treaties; we can
do them no good by our canvassing the fub
je£t, and we may lay them under tmbar
raflinents.
And here Sir, I fliall dismiss you alto
gether had not 1 seen your lart w orus in
the National Gazette of yederday, and
your request to have your works republilh
ed in the Daily Advertiser. What you
could expert from this but to render your
enmity to the government, under -which
yon enjoy the liberty of doing it, more
confpicucus, I cannot conceive, for there
is not through the whole course of your
labours a scattered fragment, of truth, in
formation or argument. Tlie w hole are
a pompous farrago of nonfenle, mifmfor
mation and daclamation, wholly inapplica
ble to the present date of the Union; there
are 110 such lordliligs and sycophants as
you describe ; there is 110 attempt to shac
kle you from Ipeaking your mind upon
my fubje£t, and vor.liung up the gall
[Total Numb. 172.]
which overflows from your disordered
bladder, there is no cry on the part of go
vernmant, that it is In danger, nor any art
used to mislead the people in its favour
"Good wine needs no bufli" and a jjood jc
vernment needs no panegyrists, hence every
thing goes on quietly, its friends reicice i s
this quiet; &tho' they have no objection to
any man writing and publifhiug his senti
ments, yet for the reputation ot the coun
try, they wilh and recommend truth ami
decency to accompany them ; this is all
they wifii or have ,a right to recommend.
And now Sir, I am ready to give you n<<-
last words, they are upon the base attempt
in your last performance to mislead unwa
17 citizens into falfe jealousy, upon the fub
jeft of an entertainment given by the Bri
tilli minister, on his king's bit th d/.y, anil
the toatts there given. I fliould be nlait
Sir, to know, what bufineU it is to you,
nr-oi? that occalion ? It is trip
. onlfant custom cf British fubjedi, every
where, to give the king, whose pay they re
reive, for their firft toalt after dinner ,
md upon the occalion of his birth day, it
would have been conflrued into diiafcei
tion, and marked difrtlj to have o
mittcd it. if they had the politeness to
i>ive the President of the United States al
terwnrds, it is plain you would be behind
:hem in 1 his instance of refpe£t to him. Sir,
your sentence on tiiis fubjeft, is contradic
tory to itfelf ; you firft approve the senti
ment, which yon fay has been adopted bv
some lately, "that principles and* not men,
should be the object of republican attach -
ment," which plainly proves that your ob
jection was to drinking the 1 resident all;
Mid you immediately beiome so careful of
l her President's dignity, that you csll it ail
r.fult to drink him in such company ; Jiere
Sir, you fliew the cloven foot: what riglic
lave you to talk of insulting the President;
your letters pnbiifhed in the A. Dai. Adver
ser of this day, answer the qi.eftion to your
frame.—Kvery thing Sir, fhotld be taken
as it was intended. The British minlnfter
.bought he was paying refpeft to the coun
ty in which he enjoys the rights of hofpita
ity by giving its President in Inch company
it his master and family; no\v, tho' there is
e*Hy nothing in it, but a token ot good
« ill, I think if you and I don't (pel h;*ps for
<ery different real'ons) civufe to drink the
President's health, ourselves, \\ e ought rot
:o prevent those who chufe to pay him this
mark of refpeft, by eflablifhing an inqui
ition over the table, and convivial char or'
ill the foreign fr.bjetts and citizens and of
di the ciubs, focicties and convivial meet -
ings among us, for they all do what gives
you so much offence, that is they give theii
"overeigivainr, nation or patron for the fir.'i
:oa(t, alter which mojl of thcin give the
Pretident of the United States.
I Ihould not have thought this fuMrfl
worth mentioning amidst such a croud of
irtpoi'tant ideas as your publication excite,
had your sentiments been confined to this
lountry; but having appeared in two
newspapers, which travel the world over,
1 thought it would conduce to the honor
of the 1 nited States to fend along with
your's the opinion of a citizen differing
from von in the principleof foreign liberty',*
and while 1 am asserting the liberty of
"peech, & the liberty of the prefs.todrop a
tew words in faviAir cf the liberty of the
:able.
I dismiss you now with a short piece of
id vice ; in your next attempt at writing,
Jo not ape the Itiie and manner of Junius';
or you are -wholly unqualified to fhiuc in
t- four's&c. 1
A Friend to Peace.
June 13
Foreign Intelligence,
•via Boston.
uGMDON, [From the ORACLE, May 3.3
OFFICIAL. Of the SORTIE froth
CASSZL.
Communicatee' in a Utter from Lieutenant
General Schonficlci to'the Duke o^'Brunf
wick Lunenburg.
" \ Our highness has probsbfy been in
formed by major Schce ,of the artillefy,
of the late affair of the I.sth, according t(i
the latest adyices of the day, and the ii.j
formation obtained from the priloners aii'l
cieferters from the enemy, their Sortie
wasdepofetl in three columns compr.t'. ?
atlealtof 12,ce0 men. Their prhicjl' 1
object of attack was Koilhemiand tti'e grai 1
redoubt of Mafliback. when the e.'.'. i.'
fucteeded in penetrating the t-•jug tn - 1 - manner .lirr.cf: imperceptible,
Mir th * firmnefs of the HefTian.- not
permit the:n to finifli their devastation {
tie ensyny in turn irretrievably lo.ing one
,i ece or camion, \vh 1? those which they
r. iiled up of ours, may ay, l in be rendered
;Vrvi- e ible. The poll of Biberic was -illu
as warmly aflViUd, as defended by Msjm
Spitnaus, v.ith two companies of dil
moimtf d Chafleurs. Tlie enemy left-6c
me'i up >i the ground on their retreat.
» Our left \vi ig at Koitheim w<v at
tacked with Jor 4000 men, and 4 piece
of cannon ; they forced the gate, but die
not long keep pofl'efiiion, as I had 110 foone;
deternli >ed upon the mode of .1 combinet
attack, than I ordered two battalions ot th
left wing, under general Vittenghofen, tt
inarch agai them, protected by mv bat
teries. On this.orcalioii I regret the lnfs o
Jient. Borftell and (ix brave foldiert of th:
regiment of'Croiifaz.. The HeU'ua troop:
uere fuliained by lient. general De Lindt
villi three battalions ot infantry, and 1 c
i'quadrons of cavalry i nof.vithllandin«
• Kodheim was then vigoroutly attacked •
In fine, the French iivere repnlfed in al
part-. The number of pri(oners is not
yet known. The killed oil the enemy'"
jule are much more numerous than ours ;
they left two hundred at lead fcatterec;
about in different places ; we have loft 011
jy twenty men ; so that
liie Doij-'iuiportance of this rencotmtre. 1
cannot help esteeming it as a frelh proirt
of the tleciftve fyperiority which his niajef
ty's arms will everootain over thole of oui
enemies."
May 4.
Mimfters yeOerday received letter«frow
France, by the way of Dieppe and Bright
helinflone, stating, that 011 Frid iv lad. -he
20th inlf. the Gironde party had gained s
complete triumph over the jacobine f#ctio
—and rJntDantnn.Roberfpierre.Marat,an,
many others had been inalfacred—that'll*)
had appointed a new executive council—
and that they were in full polfeflion of the
government. This news Mr. Pitt read tc
the c-.i nmiiteo alTembleel for considering of
ihemea of afiiftinp; the disordered cred l ;
of the country ; and Lord Grenville m a n
tioned it in the Huufe of ; but uei
ther of them declared that it came to their
hands upon authority that they could im
plicitly trust.
It Is laid that the lending members of the
executive cou:-.cil of France are well dis
posed to offer terms of pe. ee to this cou 1
try, alffloll 011 any conditions. In all the
de ates in the National Convention, tin
members seem to he particularly guarded
in their expr. liinns concerning thi coun
try : aaW it is well kdown M. ele Chan
velin has been very ungraciously received
in France, from the opinion entertained
that he was too impetuous in his behavioui
towards our court, by which he precipi
tated his country into a war. It is I urthet
laid, that the committee of general defence
1:1 Parjj was reduced from twenty-five tc
nine, in order to conduit the pubi c affair
in general, and a negotiation with thi
country in particular, with secrecy.
The flocks yefierday had a rife of abovt
one per cent, owing to a report that peace
■would speedily take place. This report,
however, founded on lettersfrom Holland
was by no means generally credited.
May 5.
Yefteeday a meflenger came from th
head-quarters of the Pruflian army, nea
Menu. which he left on the ;Bth ult. whei
110 material event had occurred. The
lame meflenger paifed thro' Bruffeb, on thi
30th, where there was an eejual barrenne!
of intelligence. On the northern frontier
of France,, the operation of the conibinei
armies are delayed by the neceflity so
bringing up magazines ; —on the east
Mentzand Landau prevent the progress 01
the Pruflians.
Mav 6.
Lord Boringdoi, who returned to towl
yefle-rd ly noon from the continent, me
Dumourier on the road towards Vienna,
three days journey o-i the other fide o
Liege. The Liegois are extremely vexec
they did not recognize the French genera
while he was in that city, a3 they certainl)
vjuUihtve detai led and made him ac
countable for fonie of the governmen;
property which he and his army pillagec
during tl.eir Uay there.
Germ ny.
VIENNA. April 5.
His JrhppriaMnajcfty has Tent orders tc
the prince of SaxeCobonrg, to feiul hi flier,
under a proper escort, the French genera,
BournonvilJe, Ins adjutant, and the mem
bers of the French National Convent'on.
now state prisoners. His majesty has far
ther given orders to his serene highness,
to enjoin the officers who command thi
efcort, to halt at the lafi post before Vien
na, to transmit official notice to the Aulic
council of war, of the arrival of the prifon
«rs. We are afTured that they will be im
prisoned in the iortrefs of ipielberg, in Mo
ravia.
Thefenate of Venice lately gave order
to the French charge des affaires in that
city, to take tlown the arms of the French
republic from his hotel : bnt the latter not
having complied with these orders within
the time appointed, the Senate caused
them to be ignominioufly taken down by
some ftonc-nftfonsj attended by an escort
of 200 Sbirrs.
The Itates of the Auflrian Netheiland
have requeued to lend a ciepuialior.
to our tulirc; and their lias bet. 1
granted.
Netherlands.
BRUSSELS, April 16.
That part of the combined army, con
fining of Auftrians and Pruflians command
• d by general Ciairfayt, whicii threatened
Lisle, and had taken several advantageou
poliuons round that place, has quitted
ihe.n, in order to advanct against Comk
and Valenciennes, which wili probably be
the two principal points of attack. While
this movement was effecting, the corps
.omm uuled by lieut. general de la lour,
lfter having given a falfe alarm to the in
renched camp or* Maubeuge, advanced a-
Tainft that plate to blockade it. and to cur
){f entirely its communication with Vaien
;ieiuies< Tliefe mi afures were attended
A'itn the desired success.
On the 23d, a very fwiart engagement
:00k plate between the advanced poiis in
;!ie neighbou hood ol Maubeuge. The
French having advanced in great number ,
rbrced at firlV some ports ol ih.ifieurs, bin
\<on after our people, being reinforced,
jbliged the enemy to fall bach in dilorder.
On the 11 tii, 12th and i3*h, several
aioody actions have taken place in the envi
rons of Conde and Valenciennes, in vvhicl"
the French were found to give way, which
was not, however, done, but with ihe moil
abftinate reiiftance.
Spain.
ARANJUtZ, April 10.
The M:ii!,id Gazette has of late been
lllrd with a regifler oi' patriotic offers,
vvhicii itiU continue to be made with great
dacrity and zeal. The duke de la Inian
ado, presented the king with a regi
lient of 1200 men, clothed, aimed ant:
•quipped in every refpett—They have
■!»n. battalion-gi:ns, two field pieces, am 1
"our howitzers, with the neceflary ammu
lition and waggons, and mules,
irsd the Caiffe du Regiment Hocked with a
• sum of ready calh.
Another grandee has also raifi'd a repi
nent on hi> eftatcs ; and several have paid
ntothe royal treasury a gift of io,oool. in
: ird and tteiling i<ioney.
The queen, and all the ladies <>f thii
our: arc- butily employtd in making lint.
France.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Permanent Sitting—April 16.
The following letters were rend, ant! fenl
o the Convention by the Lomuiiluoners ir
lie army.
Letter f> , m the citizens Leqninio, Coehon.
ai.d Bellegarde, to the field Marechu,
Fringe de Cobourg.
" Monsieux,
"DUMOURT7 R ha- H"tr-vr,' *'
lation to v>hich he onto 1.1 tievation
i'ou ca .nut efleem a traitor. Good fnilli
iro'iib.ts yon from giving him an afyltim,
rid yon oi\ght not to have received the
nembers ofthe <"on\ention, whom liede
ivered up to you. The French would hav-f
itviorred anyone of your nation, who hai:
ommitted such a baseness ; and, would
tave reflored to you those boftages, whiif
he law of nations precludes! them from re
eiving in fnch cases.
"We now transmit you a few copies ol
:he decrees paffod by the con\entian or
his occasion ; and we also inclofu the pro
. lamations which we have addreifed to tht
irmy.
" A brave general who love 3 honour,
jught to follow the copdufl which jtiftice
ommands ; and we now frankly assure y«i
:h<<t the whole French nation will sither
ierilh or remain free.
(Signed) LEctuimo,
CoEhi'R,
Beliegarbe."
Letter frwn Prince Ccbo: ig, Commander
in Chief of the Imperial Armies.
" Head Quarters, Boujju, April 9.
" Gentlemen,
" I DID not look upon Gen. Dumotiriet
is a traitor ! He ta ked of nothing \\ hen he
«as with 11s, but of the happiness ot hi'
country : He rested his undertaking upon
thii refpe£table basis; it was upon this
/roinxl I entered into conversation witli
liin, and upon this ground yofl ought t<
incite him. You differ in opinion with him.
.his is his only crimc.
" His princip.es recalled him to that con-
Citation which was once your idol; lie fav.
nit the happinef.i of France, and thepeact
nf F.urope ; fur these principles he does not
Jeferve to be delivered up to ignominy, and
,0 the death of a traitor. He bad never
my private intelligence with us. and we
f ought in such a manner, as to prove that
we were no friends. In your proclama
tion you accuse him of having intended to
deliver up his country ; he never deviated
from his firft solemn declaration, and that
of the other generals at our approach to
wards France, that they should never fuffcr
any foreign power to interfere with the in
lenor organization of our government, or
that any pan of France fliould be alienatetl.
" As to the fvHir connniffioiiers from the
Convention, their fate is ill your hands. I
rppeal for all these tbje£ls. rnti for the vio
'iit, tyrannical and furiou.; refolm oils oi
11 me of the members of your Alienibly, to
ihsfe members who have really the love oi
their country at keart. May they find
means to make the convulsions cease, which
tear France to pieces, ai d lhaketo itslonn
dation the reft of Kurope ; this is my Willi
as w ell as yours.
(Signed) " Pkince Cobuorg."
Letter from Citizen Dubois, Dubois, and
Briez, Reprefentati-.es from the French
people at Valenciennes, April 10, nyj.
to General Prince de Saxe Cobourg, Com
mander in Chief of the Imperial army.
GeNeraj.,
THE Citizen Deputies, to whom yen
addressed your yederday's letters, are in
longer at Valenciennes : we supply hen
their places, and we profefs the fame pi in
ciples with them. We have the fame du
ties to fulfil, the fatre oaths to keep, ami
we are polfelTed of the fame powers, dele
gated from the National Rreprefentative
of the republic.
General, we agree with yon, that to dif
fer in opinion is no crime ; for a crime, ac
cording to the law, is attached only to ac
tion ; and it is only for actions which art
criminal and traitorous in the eyes of all
nations, and even in yours, that Dnmoutiei
has rendered l.imfelf infamous and a trai
tor ; whilst he might have covered hi in fell
with glory in ufefully forving his country,
and in dying in its defence if necrfl'ary.
It was certainly a great crime to pietenc
to oppose his own Will to that of the nation
and to pro-pose to them any governmen
whatever. The will of a General of ai
:rmy, ill oppoliticm to legal authorities, e
ven if good, can be nothing but a violatior
ot all principles, and a great crime againl 1
National Sovereignty. But what did Gen
eral Dumonrier v illi for ? The faflic thai
our mod inveterate enemies now with for
viz. To seduce our troops, to direst then
against their country, to give us a new ty
ranny, and to league themselves with oui
enemies, in order to accoinplilh these de
ligns. What more could Dunioilrier havi
done ? Has guilty La Fayette, whom ht
himfelf condemned to infamy, done an;
thing else ? Has not he himl>!f sworn si
tlelity to the republic, and for this oath ob
tained the confidence of the French ? You
General, reap the advantages of his perfidy
laut you do not pardon him for the fame
The Conditution, which, jou (ay was oncc
our idol, fell into ruins by the endeavour:
i>f those events who willi for it now, am
did not with for it at that time. The na
tion had made a trial, and in the experi
ment they w ere difguded with it forever.
The nation, and they had a right to do so
infilled upon n republican government, anc
(wore to ftipport it, or bury themselves ii
its ruins.
We know of no division amonjft the
members of the Convention. That afiem
bly is one and indivifible—W ■ know of n<
ather members amongfl then-i but what are
guided by the love of their country. II
[i e are fomdt ; :nes disputes, if tUeir fit
ting- are fometitnes tempeduous. no person
ti.isa right to int. rfere. We always agree
in the main object of general interell, anc
'A e are all determined to live and to die
republicans.
Ourfour colleagues are tinder the fife
jttard of the sovereign judice and loyalty o:
i>ur enemies. Theit fate gives us no unea
(iilefs. Betides, we had already prepareo
jii answer to your address to the French oi
the 9th ind—-we lend it to you, and beg yon
•o read it w-itn attention ; you will find it:
it true principles, upon which nationsouglii
.0 conduit themselves towards one another.
ThURJOAY, April 18.
A letter frout the Commissioners at Va
lenciennes, was read. It dated, that Conde
was dill blockaded ; that the enemy had
"ummoned the town of Meubeg. the gar
rison of which determined to detent
t; and that an aition had taken place tbt
evening before, in which the enemy were
-epulfed. The CommiCioners added, that
:hey eXpeOed an important action the da;,
following.
The Cotwmiffioners at Nantz, informe d
he Convention, by a letter, dated the 15th.
:hat the patriots w ere continuing to repref;
:he insurgents. and that their efforts were
attended with geeat success.
Letter from Gen. Dampierre, to the Mi
liider at War.
Valenciennes, April 15, 1793.
" C'tizen Minister,
" I INFORM you that'the advanced
g,uard of the French army has behaved with
the fame bravery as yederday : The)
were attacked with more brilknefs than
vefterday, and the Audrians ha»e beer
beat. I cannot bedow too high praise upor.
the brave Lamarche, who commanded a
part of the van guard. The firing conti
nued from four in the morning till eight ir
the evening, and at Come moments with as
much violence as at the batile of Nerwind.
" The intrepidity of the troops has beer
very great, and carried even farther than
the proposed end required. The success
of this day is owing in part to the ingeniou
manner ill which genera! Lr.rorhe ibrsxr
up his entrenchments, and to a lixte.n
pounder plaied in furh a manner, as 10 do
thegreateft pnflible inj'try ro the eoemy
" The Auftriaus have Deen ui tvea as far
as St. Ataand.
(Signed) " DAMPIF3.RE."
One of the general's aitl-<fe-canip> add
ed, that the French army had exceeded the
hopes of their commanders. T hat on the
14th they yielded tixnumbers, but that on
the 15th they were victorious. He f..id
, [so, that Cobourg and his officers by their
Ipeeches, letters, and aiticn-, feeir-cu <:e
---itrous of peace ; antl that they wilhed tu
converse with the French troops ; but thai
general Dampierre had forbidden the
French to hold any communication with
them. He informed the Convention like
wif», that a mifunderlfanding prevailed
amongthe combined powers.
Saturday, April 20.
Letter from the Coirmiflioners Pent t» the
army of general Cliftine.
Head-Quarters General,at Weiflembourg,
April Ij.
" Citizens our Colleague!,
" Cuftine's army is encamped near this
town, in a very advantegeous polition.
Yesterday we vilited the camp. The whole
troops were under arms, and each regi
ment and each battalion renewed before
us the oath, that they would conquer or
die for liberty ; and they linanimoufly
Ihouted out, Long live the Republic ! Long,
lilt the Convention I Hatred to Tyrants I
The troop? are in light ot the enemy, and
burn with a delire of engaging them. We
fnall vilit, this evening, the advanced
commanded by the brave Hou
chard. The communication with Lan
dau is still free—That city is in the mo ft
formidable state of defence, and provided
with provifious of every fort lor a long
time.
•• We have received a letter from Mentz;
they have caused all the cattle ot the
neighbouring villages to be driven to that
place. They were unwilling to retire
from it, in order that they may have a lhai e
in its defence, and they have (worn they
will perilh rather than surrender,
*• General Hohenloe, has denied, by a
letter addrc fled to vis, the maSUcre of the
4th battalion ties Vojges. They are pri
soners ; but the rights of war have not
been violated in regard to them.
Signed, &.C.
Thurjday. April 25.
The Convention decreed that the na
tional treat fury fliould Keep ready at the
difpofalof the niinillry for the home de
partment, a certain twin for the pnrpofe
of continuing the building of the n.onu
tnent in honor of Liberty, already pro r ofed
and beguu on the ruins of the baltile.
Letter from the Cotrimijfiou.en on the
Northern Frontiers.
" We have the fans, action to inform yoiv
that we have gained a new advantage o
ver the enemy. They attacke d yesterday
lear Maubeug, in three columns, and witll
Ix pieces of cannon, one of our advanced
joils, which being inferior in number, fell
j.itk on the camp. General Mmnbofly
immediately proceededfrom the camp with
i reinforcement of nine pieces of cannon.
The combat was obstinate, and continued
from five in the morning till three in the
afternoon. Our troops fought with so
much bravery that they forced the enemy
.0 retiie with precipitation. They left a
Treat number of men on the field "' battle,
«nd as in their flight they did not ii.;d the
>ridge fufHcientiy broad, many of them
lafled the Sam,'ore by swimming. The ci
:izens of Matibenge, in cafe of a serious
nack, have livorn that they will bury
;heir»felves under the ruins of the place,
:.id hang the firft person who (hail speak of
.npitulating. Givct and Charletfiont wait
'or the enemy with the fame rcfohirion.
hi (hort our enemies are not to be dreaded
;t present; the reports given to us are not
ilarining. The enemy spend their time
n parad-' aid making falfe attacks. Their
irincipal object, it is said, is Valenciennes,
jutthev will not succeed."
LONDON, May 5-7.
The polition of the army under general
"uftine, which is ftiil 36.000 ilrong, was
>ii the 11th of April a; follows: general
flouchard, with 10,000 men, was polled
n the wood and neighborhood of Can
:ielle ; 10, coo men were emeamped on the
of the Rhine, near LanghtcrV.irg ;
ind the reft were on the heights of \\ eif
emburg.
On the re-csptnre from the French, by
Lhe Phsscon, of the Spaniih prize Regifter
hip, part of the effects of which, to the
amount cf 500,0001. h:td been pat o r <
board the French privateer : it has with
many become a queflion, whether the
Englilh captors are not entitled to the
whole of the latter, as a complete prise
from an enemy ; Wicugli only to faivage
for so much as remained on board the Sj:a
nit'hft.ip.
Rotondo, the Italian, whi cr.t off the
head of the princ»fs Lambel!e.:t is fald, w as
hung at C-cfteva, the 19th of Ifalt month,
t or murder and robbery.The gjppw:. true, that the
French general Da::ipierre lately
an exchange ol'prii'j.iers with thepriuce <ie
Saxe Cobou,rg, viz. the royal priloners in
the temple, for the co •nu'.lhuners of' the
Convention now in cultody, provided the
prince would grant a ceilation of humilities
to give time for a regular tiegociation for
peace. The prince de Sa;;e Cobourg re
turned for answer, that he had rio objec
tion to the exchange of prisoners, but he
would not listen to a truce.
General Dampierre, now conlrnander in
chief of the French army, had the title ol
| Count before the revolution. His father
was a marquis of the firft and moil ancient
nobility in Champagne. His family and
that of Brieuae, were very intimately con
nected ; the archbifnop of Sens, and the
earl of Brienne his brother, ware, the one
tirft minister, and the other minister of
war, in 1787.
He was eleited prefidcnt of the depart
ment de I'Aubc in 1790, and entered into
the army in the beginning of the war.
When he was told two months ago, that
his army was attacked near Aix-la-Cha
pelle, he cried ont, " Well, well, so much
the better, we (hall gather new laurels."
He is about 42 years old ; of a (trong
constitution, very active. calm, and un
daunted in the midll of danger.
Declaration of Gf.n. Dumouxier.
" Having learnt thatfufprcions have beer
excited again'.! my intentions, on accouni
of a pretended connection supposed to exill
between me and Philip d'Orltans, a Frencl
prince, too well known under the name o
Egalite, and being anxious to preserve tha
eiteem of-which I daily receive the mof
honorable teilimonies, I take the earlief
opportunity of declaring that I am ignoran
whether there daily exists an Orlean fac
tion ; that I never had any conn«£tior
with the Prince who is supposed to be a:
the head of it, or who is the pretence foi
it; that I never elteemed him ; and thai
(ince the fatal epoch when he tore afundei
the bonds of blood and offended agaimt al
known laws, by criminally voting for the
death of theunfortunateLouis XVI againfl
whom he declared his opinion with atruciou
impudence, my contempt for him has beer
changed into a jull aversion, which leaves
me no other deiire than that of feeing him
delivered over to the severity of the laws.
" With regard to his children, I think
they poliefs as many virtues as he does vi
ces. They have perfeitly served their
country in the armies which I commanded,
without ever (hewing ambition. I have a
great friendlhip for the eldell, founded up
on the best merited cfteem ; and 1 am cer
tain, that, instead of ever afpiringto mount
the Throne of France, he would fly to the
end of the world, rather than be forced to
It. In (hort, I declare, that if, after the
crimes of his father, or by the attrocious
results of the sons of faction and anarchy,
he (liould find himfelf in such a (ituation as
to wave between the virtues which he has
hitherto Ihewn, and the bafenef. of taking
advantage of the dismal cacai'trophe which
has plunged the sensible part of the Nation
and all F.urope in mourning, and that if he
(hould then be ever so far blinded by am
bition as to aspire at the crown, I would
devote him to eternal hatred, and enter
tain for him the fame contempt which I
have for his father.
(Signed) "DUMOURIER."
Frankfort, April 20, 1793. [£■ Paper.]
For the National Gazette.
Mr. Freneau,
A MONC the many murders committed
by the Paris mob, in the course of the
present revolution, that of Madam Lam
balle is the inort affecting: and which with
out any reason, has given the friends of
despotism and monarchy, such cause of re
flection on the whole nation.
To ascribe however, such an occurrence,
which can beconlideied in no other light
than as the action of an enraged and
opprefied multitude, to the grand coun
cil of the nation, as has been done by
many, is the greatelt absurdity. And if it
be asked why were not forae attempts made
by the police of the city, to prevent the
commiffiau of inch an action, I answer that
they as well as every other person knows,
the difficulty and danger of oppoling a mob,
and that it was certainly far better to let
them have their own way, rather than
risque those greater evils and general
(laughter which would have inevitably fol
lowed. I would beg leave to remind the
Englilh nation, who have made the greatest
noise about the matter, of the mob in Lon
don in 1780, which all the military that
eould beco.lected could not prevent them
committing far more numerous and atroci
tus actions than ever were done in Paris,
and from pulling down the house and burn
ing all the valuable property of one of the
kighelt men at that time in power; viz.
Lord Mansfield. Let them alio remember
the more recent affair at Birmingham, a
rot unequalled in hiflory, and which was
countenanced by government, when it
might have been quelled 111 time—F-lfe why
were not some effectual measures taken be
fore three d ivs had elapsed, during which
time the mob ravaged without oppolition,
and were flittered to destroy the iioute
br sry, and valuable philolophical apparatus
of Dr. PrielHy, a nun to whom Engl® ll "
nwes the greatelt part of her fame among
;!ie nations of the world, for the numerous
and important discoveries in pliilofophy and
:hc lciences In general ; and whole luU'es
ivill forever remain a /landing tnouinnent
if di[grace to the Briti/h nation.
But to return —Although Madam Lam
bille's death will no doubt be lamented
from the circumstances o»/y which attended
it, (for cohlidering the intiigucs 2nd mon-
Itron; extravagance of which (he was guil
ty, her life was rather a cnrfe than a prWfit
to the nation.) Yet to (hew how little
principle (lie pofleifed, I fend you a letter
written by her, ridiculing the venerable
Doifor Franklin at that time, our ambafta
:'or at Versailles, 011 his firft introduction to
the qneeri at her leVee, and which is only
on 1 par with that profligacy ot manners,
and life of which (lie was notoriously guilty
—lt is extracted from a number ot other
letters, which were written in France, and
intercepted and pub'illied in England.
JACOBUS.
fhilad. June 20, 1793.
TO MONSIEUR DE SARTINE,
Verfaiilei, 22d March, 17; 3.
Sunday Evening.
My DeAit Friend.
T Am but just returned from a tedious le
vee of the queen's, where your Ameri
can ambafladors had their tirft audience —
a sincere head-ach might plead my txcufe
for not fulfilling my promise of writing—
But I know you are anxious to hear how
their Excellencies are liked,or rather tole
rated—Conftdering all then, pretty well!
—But indeed you mwft thank the countess
Jule de Polrgnac and nie for it—for it was
no easy matter to perfuaile her mnjelty to
endure them The countess and myfelf
Hood very dtJfe to her by way of precau
tion. Unluckily, madamoijelle Berfin had
been with her all the morning, and you
know luivv tne milleners abhor an Englilh
war.—She had ridiculed these ambafladors
so humourouflv. that, when they made
their entree, her rnajefty was very neat
laughing.—The truth is, my dear trierftl.
they were villainouflv drelTed ; and I don't
know how it happened, but none of tlieni
looked like gentlemen. It was all in vain
to talk of simplicity of manners ! of great
ness of mind ! and contempt of forms !
" Ma foi (d:t la reine) it faut avouer ce
tfeft que de la ca' aille /"f However, I
pointed to Dr. Franklin's white hat, as the
emblem of innocence ; and the countess
of Polignac to his fpe£tacles, (one of which
was broken) as tnat of oeconomy. As
suredly, said her majeftjr, thisdodtor Frank
lin is " bien fingulier en toutes chose.' !
We lauged at this turn, which put ker in
good humour: and the duke de Cnigny,
who was (landing by, allured her niajefty
that this singular doctor, with his white
hat, and broken fpeftacles, could never
theless bottle lightening, and uncork it a?
fatally as Pandera opened her box, or
Ulyfl'es's friends untied the boraccio ; at
which we all laughed ; becanfe none of us
understood it. In (liort, we have contrived
pretty well for the present; but do, my
dear friend, fend these barbarous ambas
sadors some taylars and hair-drelfers, and
pray encourage his excellency, the dottor,
to have his fpe&acles mended. Adieu.
LAMBALLE.
t It would be injustice to her majefiy, to
attempt any tranjlation of Jo inimitable an
exprejfion.
No. V.
COOL REFLECTIONS relative to
the FRENCH REVOLUTION.
TXfHATEVER may be the ifTue of the
present awful contest for liberty in
France, it has "produced one effect here
that ought not to be overlooked, or soon
forgotten. It has been the means of try
ing—though not the fouls—yet the princi
ples of men ; and thereby clearly ascer
tained who have been friends, and who
have been enemies, to the progress of li
berty there ; and eonfequently who are
real friends and real enemies to it here.
The line partially and faintly drawn before
Dy other circum(tances< has been traced out
fully and clearly, by the infallible signs of
triumph and sorrow attending the alter
nate fuccefles and misfortunes of the arms
ofliberty. There is hardly a man of any
consequence among us, who has not exhi
bited himfelf in his true colours, In this re
spect. And it is a fair and sure conclusion,
that thoje who have uniformly been again It
the French revolution, or wtjh well to the
de/pots employed in overturning the new
republic, are at heart inimical to liberty
and the rights of the people in their own
country.
As to the unprincipled trimmers and
time-servers, it is of some importance also
that their chara£ters have been brought
fully to light. And as to the timid and
uniteady, driven to and fro by every vague
rumour, and every turn of fortune, the
lead they can expect is, to be regarded as
very weak, rather than wicked, members
of society.
The influence of events on the opinions
and sentiments of mankind, is an old and
important obfervaticn, and too ninth oc
calion ior repeating it lias been afforded
among ouifetver, during the French revo
lution. And yet it feenis furpriling that
ihe ordinary rare of underflanding, lirm
nefs, and integrity of the people of this
country, fimuld not have mc.de the remark
inapplicable to our fltuation. How obvious
is it, to reflect, that force is noteft of right,
and confeqtfeiuly that whether the French
succeed in their struggles for liberty, or be
overpowered by the tyrannical confederacy
against tliem, the nature and merits Of the
cause in which they are engaged nuift re
main the faine. Had America not suc
ceeded in her struggles—had the powers
which Great-Britain now joins against
France, joined her in the war against us,
and had been able to crulh our liberty in its
birth—or, were liberty to be exterminated
entirely from the face of the earth, it would
not alter the nature of things. It would
'lot make tyranny less an evil, nor liberty
less a blefllng, than they riow are; nor
could the opinion or inclination of any ra
tional mind be changed or influenced by so
deplorable an event. For my own part,
whenever my imagination, looking for
ward to the great scene of poflible events,
prefects to me new fuccefles of tyranny —
the chains of France rivetted on her —and
liberty hunted out corner of Eu
rope—theeffeit is far different on my mind.
Instead of changing my opinion concern
ing the nature of that blefling, or being less
anxious to nourilhit and preserve it among
otirfelves, its value feenis to rife morepre
c'ous in Hiy eyes, and I feel a more anima
ted anxiety that it may be watched and
guarded 011 every fide, and against every
danger.
PHILADELPHUS:
June 18th, 1793.
PHILADELPHIA;
Saturday, June 22.
The late accounts from Franee, contain
upon the whele favourable appearances
relpefting the cause in which they are en
gaged—There have been several Warm at
tacks made upon the advanced polls of the
Repablic by the Auftrians and Prufiians,
in which they have beengenerally repulsed
with conliderable loss—The Brufieb and
Oftend papers, even mention in terms of
ftirprize and regret, the objiinate reliftance
made to the operations of the combined
armies. Gen. Danip>erre is busily employed
in organizing the army which Dumourier
by his treachery had in some measure put
in confution, and from the number ot
recruits daily coming in, there was every
appearance of his collecting a fufficient bo
dy effectually to oppose the inroads of
the enemy, and perhaps in due time to
drive them from the frontiers.
ASpanifli Register (hip, from Lima, in
South- America, with fixtee.i cherts of mo
ney, 7 of gold and the reft plate, and ma
ny other valuable articles, has been taken
by a French privateer, and re-taken by
the Engiifh and carried into Portsmouth.
She is said to be the richest priz» ever
carried into England, and is valued at
1,300,0001. sterling. The Engiilh captors
it is reported will only be entitled to sal
vage.
The commercial credit of Great Britain,
from the war it is engaged in—the want of
fufficient circulating medium—the nume
rous bankruptcies—and the impediments to
the sale of its maiiiifaaureS, has recently
fuffered a severe fliock. To remedy the
evil, an ast palled the Rritifli Parliament,
for the loan of Exchequer Bills, to the a
inount of five millions sterling : on the de
polit at the Exchequer-Office, of goods or
other securities. Twenty Commiflioners
are cliofen to put the act into execution. —
The finalleft sum to be advanced to any in
dividual, \fcill be 40001. and not more than
50 per cent, will be admitted 011 manufac
red goods, and 60 on raw materials.
Mr. Fox, the champion of oppolition, has
aid, that although lie had no hand in plung.
ng tha country in the pernicious war tha
lad occasioned the mifchief, he did not
.vilh to be reproached with oppolingthe re
nedy, now the mifchief had arrived. In
onfequence of these late failures, and the
iagnation of public credit, upwards of one
iundred and Jixiy thousand men, women
md children, formerly employed in the
:otton manufactories in Scotland, have been
lifmiffed, and are in great distress. On the
accuracy of the above the public may rely.
The Court of Admiralty of this state has
determined yesterday, in the taufe pending
-efpeiting the capture of the (hip William
and the brig Fanny, priies of the schooners
Citizen Genet and the Sans Culottes, that
t had no jnrifditt'ton to decide the legality
jr illegality of the said prizes.
Extralt of a letter from a gentleman in
Baltimore, to his friend in this city, da
ted June 14.
" I have just arrived here from the Ha
ranna, which place 1 left on the 6th June.
L)n the 23d of May the declaration of war
,vas proclaimed against France at the Ha
/anna, and on the 2 sth the cxpulfion of the
French from rhr territory, in eijht days,
.va? publilhed.
" On tlie 4111 of Jure an extraordinary
packet arrived, and in the newspapers
brought by this veflel I read the account ot"
an attack made by the inhabitants of Biscay
on the town of Bayonne, which they took
with the loss ot f»ur thousand men, and put
three thousand Frenchmen :o the (word
and I also read that the Catalonians had
taken great part of Roufillon."
Extract of a letter from Belfajl, dated
April 2?, 1793, to a gentleman in Bal
timore.
"You can have no idea of the state of
things in this country ; tlie linen manufac
tories and every species of business entirely
knocked up ; nor can I fee any profpett of
matters mending while this war continues.
The Protestants and Catliolics joined.—
When government understood t/lis, they of
themselves relieved the latter from the
grievances complained of, and the latter are
now fatisfied, and daily returning thanks.
Our volunteers dare not meet or appear in
arms now ; their cannon is taken from
them, and the army pouted down upon us;
no less than a regiment of foot here, and
the neighbouring towns all full. Our pat
riots deserted us, and changed fides in the
House of Lords and Commons, and in con
ference of the unfortunate turn affairs
have taken here, I believe if there were a
dozen American (hips In our harbour thej'
would all, in less than a month, be filled
with pafl'engers, many of them ot the tirit
relpeStability and property.
However great the deftruitioii of the
human species has already been, inconfe
quenceofthe French revolution, it will
appear trifling, compared with the scenes
of future carnage which the tefgiverfatiou
of Dumoiirier will almof.'certainly occa
(ion. for we are i.iftrufted by the historic
page, that to change the form of a demo
cratic republic by coercion, nothing less
than a total extermination of the people
will be required. What an example of
thisdid the Athenian republic exhibit when
Ihe refilled the immense hosts of Persia.
with territories scarce so large as one of
the departments of France ; nor was that
of Rome less glorious, when Porfenna—
when the Gauls—when Hannibal, were at
her gates! Now as a nation derives its
character dnd almsft solely from its
form of government, and as the fame
caufeswill ever produce the fame eft'eft.it is
impolGble to conceive, after what has hap
pened in France, that the French will agaiit
submit to be governed by a child, a
the iniftrefs of a fool, or a tyrant.
GERMANTOWN MEETING.
As it has been surmised that the pra
ceedings of a late meeting at Germantou 11,
as published in this paper, were not Itated
with accuracy, the editor is authorized tc>
declare, that the said publication is a true
copy cf the minutes of the meeting, as pro
cured from Thomas Dunga:i, chairman,
and in the hand-writing of Mr. Franks,
secretary to the said meeting —Whatever
merit is due to l*4r. Forreft for his two
resolutions, we find he can claim no merit,
for the third resolution ; the sole object of
which was to make the proceedings of the
meeting public.
PROBATIONARY ODES:
ODE V.
Tea Truly Great Man.
" Jtlltum et tenacem propojiti nimmV
HoR.
GEORGE —on thy virtues often have I
dwelt.
And still the theme is grateful to mine ear :
Thy gold letchemifts ten times over melt,
Fromdrofs& base alloy they'll findltclear.
Yet thoii'rt a man—although, perhaps, tha
firft ;
But rflan, at best, is but a being frail ;
And lince with error human nature's curst,
I marvel not that thou (hould'lt sometimes
fail.
That thou haft long, and nobly ferv'd the
state,
The nation owns, & freely gives thee thanks:
But, fir ! —whatever (peculators prate,
She gave thee not the power t'eftablidi
Banks.
No doubt,thou thought'll it was a phoenix
neft,
Which Congress were so buify to build up.
But there a crocodile h-ad fix'd his reft.
And fnapp'd the nation''s bowels at a flip.
Th e greedy tnonjfer is notyet half cloy'd,
Nor will he, whi Ift a leg or arm remairis ;
These parts the last of all flioultl be de
ftroy'd ;
The next delicious morsel is her brains,
I trust thou'ft seen the moilfter by this
time.
And haft prepar'd thy knife to cut his throat;
Hisfcales arefo damn'd hard, that in thy
prime,
'Twould take thee twenty years to make
it out.
God grant thee life to do it! Fare thee
well !
Another time examine well the ncft.
Thoogh.of Arabia's (pices it faoGld fmelfy
Lc may produce some foul infernal peftvt'jc New i'ufk Diary,af June 13.]
~g 11 HE. fjllow rg art- f >rr.e minutes taken
JL 011 boari the Neptu ie, from
/■ us C.iye3 bound t« this ;*ort, whieli 1
intended to make jviVu'eon my arrival, the
4th inft. but ?s T then knew not the name
of the (!ii|i that (poke me, I did not do it :
-—I have (inee found tlut (he is called the
PENELOPE.
Wedncfuav, May 1 at 11 o'clock a. m.
C ipe Si. Nichols E. N. E about eight
leagues, a frigate of 32 guns passed to Ice
ward i f me, hoi'led tlie National colours o'
Fr.ficc, and fired a gun .0 leeward. lim
mediately set American colours: the in
lhint they were up (he fired a (hot, which
patted between my malls ; I conceived it
was meant to hu!l me : She was not fa
distant, and vfe bad a finooth sea, 1 bore
tip,run down near her wake and lay'l by :
She ilood on with her mizen top fail ab«ck
main and fore tacks aboard—pasTed my
(tern—-gave me two Jhot more, rvith the fame
<X' : fble intention ; they only m I (Ted me. I
wore snd (lood after her ; (lie then back'd
lie' main top fail;'about 1 one o'clock
P. M. came up with her—and after I haH
answered to number ofqueflion?, they ap
peared to be f tisfied, as they did not board
me, and the officer on deck told me that 1
ni'j;ht make fail and (land on my course ;
which I turned my attention to ; bu-. had
it soon called off by the Captain, I sup
p'fe, who c lied to me from the quarter
gallery in this manner—" My lad ! I
would advise yon the next time you fall in
with me to bear down imm diately, G-d
d—n you ; 1 ' I replied, "I do r.ot think
that fucli treatment i» due to me, and I
thi'.k hard to be fired upon after I had
Jay'd by." Captain, " Not another word
from you, you damn'd rascal, or by G d
I'll fire a broad fide into you and fink you
tli's instant." I replied, " That you can
r?o, as you have your cannon in your own
pofTeflion." Captain, " Damn you, I tell
you I'll fink you when I fee ycu apain, i
vau behave in the manner you have done.'
I replied, " I know how to conduct my
own veffe', and am not a (Iranger to En
• ;'.i(h culloir.s ; I wifli you would not en
<i> avour to make he Americans enemies to
Great-Britrin." Captain, '! You are all
doing her all the hurt you can. I know
very well it is French property that you
are loaded with." K'p'y, " I know to
the contrary, for the greater pa t of it is
my own." Crptain, " Hold your tongue
G d damn you ; if you fay another word
I'll make you hoiit oat your boat and
come aboard." Reply, " That will give
me a great deal of trouble, bill I wi(h to
be treated well by all men." By this time
I had w >re fliip, and we began to separate
fall ; the Captain continued to fay some-
did not wel!under!land,Scnot wiPuing
to have the trouble of hoitling out my
boat, which threat I thought it mod pro
Lable he would put i.i execution if any, I
made no fu r ther reply : Ihe frigate conti
nued liner the fame colors while I saw her.
I .eft it may be thought by some that I
bad gave some caufc for this abuse, the
follow ing is the quedions and answers that
pafied previous ; and I believe, with hardly
the lufs 01 addition of a word. Question,
Where you from ? Answer, Aux
Cayes. Where (ire you bound ? A.
To New-York. What are you loaded
with ? A. The produce of the island,
molasses, sugar, Cotlee, &c. those
pafTentrcrs you have on bo .rd ? A. They
are. Are they Frenchmen ? A. They
are. When did you leave Aux Cayes :
A. Sundav la!l. Q_-_ Were there anv
French (hips there ? n. There were. Q.
Any armed (hips ? A. Several armeo
ci.flute Were there no men of wat
there? A. Not when I failed. Q__ Had
any failed from there lately ? A. Four 01
five days btfore I failed, a frigate failed
from there, which I suppose returned the
dav I failed, as I saw a (hip going in. Q.
Do you kn w the name of t e fiigate :
A. I do not recollect her name, - her force
about 40 cuns Was (he well man'd :
A Pretty well, betwe n 3 and 400 men.
Do you know where (he wa3 bound :
A. Indeed I do not. Q_ How many
French veflels were there at Aux-Cayes :
A. Some, 15 or 20 fail. Do you
know when they expetted a convoy, or
where from ? A- Ido nt, I have not had
rn op ortunity of being well informed ol
such particulars. news was there
in Aux-.. ayes ? A. What little passes is
so little credited, that I can't pretend to
tell you any. — Silence took place on board
the (Kip for foras little time, in which I
-diked vyiiat ship tliat v,*as r liut cid n ot le '
ceive an aifwcr I then asked, Will you
oblige mc so much as to ted me whether
(he is a king's ship or not ? To this also
no answer vva* given—something was then
fuel which I did not understand, my at
tention being called to my own veflel, tc
keep from falling foul of the (hip—l asked
what was said i The officer on deck re
plied, " You may make fail ar.d (land oi:
your course."
NATHANIEL THOMSON.
To the Editor tf the National Gazette.
SIR,
The following observations arose in confe
rence of a warm deb.ite concerning
French affairs, between two of mj
friends—lf vou think them worthy ;
corner of your gazette, your infertisf!
thrm will much oblige one who nevei
was in print, and
yi Conjiant Reader.
Mr.FRENEAU,
THE total condemnation of the pro
ceedings of the French republic, by
the inhabitants of this part of the (late, i 1
very aftonif.iing The king is here la
nented in words expreflive of the moll fen
llble anguish ; our prints are conftantl;
conveyin • to us paragraphs replete wits
sorrow—l am led to conjedlure that they
would be placed round with black, if d ■
collation (Wild be the happy and honor
able fate of ihe great and illullrious Ar
nold, whose greateit crimes are nothing in
consequence, or in numbers when corr.pa
red with ihofe of the great benevolent and
sincerely regretcd despot: Even then Ar
no'rf would soon fink into oblivion, but
the (ufferings of the latter are induilrioufiy
and perfeveringly presented to our feelings.
View the former, as the American H;n
nibal; view him at Quebec, on the lakes,
md near Saratoga ; contidcr hiin at Welt
Point—See Louis afiiiling us on the ere
of our well known emancipation, or humb
ling an inveterate foe and eternal rival—See
him granting his fubjefts privileges to aug
nent his cxhaufled icvenue—fee him at
V.riail'.es ; at the Champs de Mar; on his
flight ; as the private supporter of the em
bodied fugitives at or near Coblents ; as
he retainer of a few Swift, to guard 24
millions of bis people—the 10th rtugult.
However a tamous exciseman fays, ' that
for a people to be free it is fufEcient that
thev mean it.' It evidently follows t'sat i 1
a people w\Jh to be governed in any othei
manner they ought to be gr.itifi-'d.
Not interelledly, but with the good oI
the people at heart, I am now preparing :
form of government which I am convincet
will be congenial with the fouls of my fel
low c'tizms, ('/übjefls I will hereafter fav (
and wh'ch I will Pnorlly favour the work
with Lead I may heighten curiosity toe
much, shall now submit the outlines to then
consideration. The present Hate of S.
Carolina shall henceforth be
an independent kingdom ; in which on<
king (no matter if a kin to the interl pel
Bute) under the check of I;o hereditary
lords and 200 commons, elected every ij
years. Everv person without dillindbor
may be an ele£V>r, provided he a£tua"lly
enjoys 501 sterling annually, landed pro
perty. I fear 1 shall anticipa emy futurt
plan, therefore (hall only observe, that this
royal fabric is to be rai ed on the now con
jealed b'ood of the Cowpens, Camden, and
Eutaw Springs.
Pray, Sir, enquire if it is common 01
singular, that S. and E. merchants not
conten ed with rifling our pock-ts and
daily Llling our lands and negroes, mult
alio here tellify their contempt of our pre
sent republican government, in an indireit
way, by so ar lently and pointedly con
demning and deriding the only other form
in the universe which befers any resem
blance to it.
South Carolina, 96 Diftrift, 22d May.
(Pojl p )"pm
From the New-York Journal.
IT is laughable to observe the zeal which
the pretended neutrals among us evince,
whenever an opportunity offers of crimina
ting our brave defenders, the enlightened
republicans of France—To every honest
American, it mufl appear manireft that ail
their infernal machinations only tend to
create a jealousy between the two friendl*
republii s, which, clad in the robes of li
berty, dart their effulgent rays throughout
the globe —Americans, be liberal,be peace
able, and be juil!—Remember when your
wives, your daughter, your motiiers, n« G
your fillers were torn from you—when
your houses and barns were destroyed, and
your chi drtn fcalpcd and butchered, wlio
Itood between you r.nd the clankinj* chains
of British ministerial despotism. In re
fpedi to the proclamation of the Prehdent,
it only amounts to this—That we are de
firoris of remaining in peace—not that we
are to become the dupes of ingriies among
us, who, like the serpent did to Eve, would
fawn, and cringe, and gi'in, and lie, ?nd
flitter us to our ruin. Cliarafters of this
cast take the lead among us. Tiiey are
iicn pushing their malevolent faces into all
circles, and, like true imps, whisper into
:; jr ears, that to become great and happy,
we must join their good king, and affilt in
rutting the throats of our allies. They ai
ftrft a llrong liking to the neutrality, but
it is only when put in force againlt the
French. If a native of, and friend to A
merica, lisps out in a feeble voice, grati
tude at lead should induce m to wi(h well
to Fr ince— he is spurned at, and to'd, that
lie fiiouid beware of offending Britain; that
the French, because they have beheaded
iheir king, are brutes, fivages, and infidels.
These men are endeavouring to procure
addresses to that brave republican, the
worthy execut ve of our Hate, with the base
Intention of warping the national fenti
ment. Because we have been generous e
tough to remain inactive, they wi 1 not al
ow us an opinion. What a phenomenon
n politics, that men, not citizens of this
country, but who are only British agents,
"ent here with the avaricious design of
greying upon our commercial vitals, & ex
panding the wealth of our country, should
je fuffered to take the lead in forming our
opinion, and dictating what ought
o be the conduct of a free, a great, and a
jratefu 1 people! L;t us. by o'.r demeanor,
•nake it known to ill men, th-it, while we
prefer a Hate of neutrality and peace, yet
ve cannot but f el a i anxious f ilicitude for
lie success of the glorious flruggles which
he Frtnch people ate maki ig, to o'o
ain t'n?t heavenly jewel which wefojullly
3r z •—And that, notwithstanding our pa
:iuc temper, we never will be found under
he standard of hellifii despotism, while the
>anner o l god-like liberty is seen waving
>vtr the field.
A REPUBLICAN.
MS. I'EORO LOCACAL OBSERVATIONS.
June *793'
D. 7/ \Rarvt:i. Tocr. 'V 71 I. Weather
Tutfiitf, n- 6j 29-92 76 i. vV Fair.
- ?.o. or, oc d dfl.
Wedntjtltty, li. Ci 19. » 75 3. VV Fa ir.
: 20. 1 Sc ' . Sb-icer.
luu'iu.tj, 13. tl 19 . 74 s - ••
-| 29 Si
bruiuy, 14. *9- 85 6} ,j. vv.lair.
3I 29. 1; 77 \V. ! ill.
Saturday, 15. b 30, jj u, \v . Fulr.
3 30. 1 8z do. | Ilazey.
iiunauy, 10. o C 7 jFair.
3' ls_
Monday, 17. 61 j 74 \Fair.
3] I 89 IT. Gull
Philadelphia, June 17. 1793-
On FRIDAY th,- 28th inlt ant,
at j o'clock P M.
Will be Sold at Public Auction,
At F. Bailey's, No lie, Hijh street.
All the
PRINTING MATERIALS
of THOMAS LANG, late deceased, ton
fifti 15 of the following articles, vir..
One Printing-Prefs.with a Bank, Bonrdd
?tc five Chafes ; one Inipofing Srone ans,
Stand with Drawers; two Cafe Frames ;
four Gallies ; three Con-.poling Sticks ;
[hirteeH pjir of Cases.
TYPES.
O te Fount of Paragon, about Bolb.
Ole Do. of Pica, about 5001b.
One Do. of Burgeois face on a
Primer body, about 350 ,b.
FRANCiS BAILEY, 7 Executors
SAMUEL WETHEREE, S t - xecucors -
TO THE PUBLIC.
TXTHEREAS anattachmentat the suit of Sam
* uel Imlay and Nathaniel Imlay, executor*
of the testament and last will of Peter Imlay, de
crated, has iflued out of the Supreme Cour o'
Judicature of the fta'e of New-Jersey, against rh
ands of Garret Voorheis, late of the county of
M ddlefex, and state aforefaid, returnable to the
hid Tuelday in September, seventeen huncrec
and ninety two——Notice is hereby given to th'
said Garret Voorheif, that unless he appear »n
---file special bail to the said attinn, judgment
will be entered against him, by default, and tht
lands so attached fold for the fatisfadion of fuel
of his creditors as (hall appear to be justly entitler
to any demand thereon, and (hall apply fr*r that
purpefe, according to the farm of the statute in
luch cafe made and provided.
By order of the Court,
April 17. lav;. iy HOWELL, Cik.
To the PUBLIC.
NJOT WITHSTANDING all the ertdeavoro
of the ar-ifocrjtic party to prevent the citi
zen' of the United State* fiom encouraging the
\V ork entirlrd MAA UNDECEIVED, which!
propofert to print by fubfeription on the 25th Feb.
last, 1 feel myfelf happy »o informing the true
Republican*, that the fame will be put without
delay to the press, r.s the fobfeription has been
fuccefsfully filled. Such unexpe&ed fuccefc 1
oAre to the f« vor or* fcvcral zealous f iendj, who
aiftinjuifl.rd themfrlvej in the undertaking.
I think it n-.3neccft|U| to make any iemark* at
prr.fent refpeChng the work, as the w«rld will
f>on be enabled to pronounce Centence upon it,
I hope therefore, that those whole circumstances
nreealy, who hold the generous principle of
democracy, wili '"eel ferry for their indifference
with to fubferihing, in as much as the
work, will confound the enemies of Republj
canifm. I lhaM, however, reserve every remarlc
upon the fubjeft for the Appendix to the woiJc.
I havI**1 ** the pleasure to exprsfs my public thanlct
o those benevolent American Printers through
:hc United Scares, who had the kindness to inftrc
ny tormer advertisement in their
Kid I 'equeft them to give the present a piac?,
lefiring them to fend me one of their papers con
jif ing it, thar I may b-come acquainted with
my fr ends, and feed them a copy of the said work
is a tok?n of my gratitude.
Those P inters only fli »uld take notice of thit
request who are true requblicans, and friends to
mankind, a chara&er acquired only im the
Ichool of democracy.
JAMES PH. PUG LI A,
Late sworn interpreter of the Spanifli language.
June 12) 1793.
I Have claims to about two hundred and
fifty thoufaad acres of LAND in the (late of
Kerrtuckey, i n different parts of that country,
(ome of which I know to be equal to any ; all
ot wheh I am inclined to di(pole of, either by
entire sale, or by admitting one, or two partners,
to whom the agency on the whole will be com.
mitted.
One fourth of the will be required in
band, either in cash, merchandise, or such afle-ts
39 mav be converted to a&ive use, the residue
may be apportioned in convenient inftalmenrs.
The purchasers to give security, on the land,
»r otherwa>s,as suits them.
Knowing that there is a prejudice against the
titles 01 land in that (late, which is more general
than just # lam willing to stipulate in the con
rra<f>, that a discount, or dedu&ion, (h«ll be
made, where any land may be loft, by realon of a
defe&ive title.
Any perlon inclining to such a purchase, is re
queued to write to me by port, in answer to
whom, more particular information will be eiven.
HENRY BAN KS.
Richmond March zro, 1793# zaw td.
FOR SALE,
Thirteen Hundred and Sixty Aeres
of excellent
Farming or Tobacco Lands,
LYING in the county of Amherft, in the
state of Virginia, on one of the principal
oi<u>ches of James River, within fix miles of the
latter, f> m where it is ravigab'e for boats of ten
or twelve tons burthen.— Resides the advantages
of these lands, for the farmer or cultivator of to
bacco, they are luppofed, from a small though
fuccmiui experiment, made by the late colonel
Chifwell, to contain an abundance of metals,
which, if not of a precious (as has been even
fuppoled) are certainly ot a very valuable kind-
The better, however, to ascertain this fatf, and
place the purchaser on a lafe footing, in so haz
ardous a buftnfcfs, as all those subterraneous te
iearches, without the utmost certainty of an
abundance of the desired ore, is supposed to
«. very reasonable and necefTary aflittance or indul*
,'ence wi'l be rendered thole inclined to make the
experiment, as well as every other n.-ceflary in
formation given by the Editor of this gazette, in
I'hiladelpbia, or
JOHN NICHOLAS,
Chariottefville, Virginia.*
Tors S, 179?* jaw6w
Harrijbargb Mail Stage.
STARTS every Yvedncl<i.jy from Mr. Henry
Eppl>'s in race street, between third an-1
fourth streets, and arrives at FJirrilburgh on th«
Saturday morning following —Starts from Mr.
Crabb's, innkeeper, Harnlburgh, on Monday
and arrive l ) on Wednesday at Philadelphia..—
M.B. The Reading stage ftarrs from Reading,
at John Witman's, innkeeper, on Monday, and
ari ives at Philadelphia on Tuesday morning-—
Then (Tarts from Philadelphia on Friday morn
ing ?\ a. o'clock, and arrives at Reading on Sa«?
urday morning. The grea'elt care and attenti
on (hall be paid by the PuWics' humble fervaot.
WILLIAM COLEMAN.
N. P. A light stage upon tprings, with two
horses, or without horses, with complete geers,
mav be had at any moments' warning, for the
iccommodation of ladies and pentlemen, ap
. lying to the above named N\ m. Coleman, living
rj the borough of Reading.
A FEW COPIES OF THE
TRANSACTIONS
Of the Society ivft;tuted in the State of
New-York, for the f miction of
AGRICULTURE, ARTS, and MANU
FACTURES,
May be had at this Oiiice.
[Price half a doi.lA!V.]
TRINTE3 B 7
CHILDS AND SWA IN E,
AT TRKIk orriCK NOi lOQ,
WEAR F ITTH-IT* ( TT,
rKii A&iini (i