By P. FRE NE A U : (at No. 209, Market Street) Published Wednesdays and Saturdays, [Three Dollars per annum.]
Numb. 62 of Vol. ll.]
Norths n iTMi, printed at
Belfait, Ireland .J
"cUCH is the miserable tyranny now ex
iOing in that country, that men dare
not utter their thoughts on ih«" ailairs of
tiie public, except in parables and alle
gories "]
I believe it is acknowledged that there
is a connexion between our thoughts, in
the day time and our dreams at night ;
we dream when we are neither aflee,
nor awake, but in some middle state, and
hence it is that dreams are often very con
futed things, and there is very little ftrtf
in general to be laid np&n them. But
sometimes they have been of importance
and truly prophetic ; I cannot how ever
call my dream a prophecy, it does not
seem to prognofiicate any thing ; having
been in tha habit of thinking, though at
present I do not think it fafe to speak free
ly concerning political matters, it is very
natural to suppose that I flionld dream of
them ; and as it is my opinion that I can
not be punished for either thinking or
dreaming, and though I might be prosecu
ted for publilhing my thoughts, yet as
dreaming is perfectly involuntary, I think
I may venture to publish my dream, but a
friend of ini :e told me that though dream
ing is involuntary, the act of telling or
publishing the dream is voluntary, and
therefore cognizable ; I therelore laid
aside the thought of publishing my dream,
till I mould consider maturely whether
there was any thing in the dream that was
actio ia!>le ; and afier the mofl scrupulous
investigation, I found that it was no mat
ter what the d. earn was, provided it did
not relate to tin's kingdom,our rulers,
our glorious constitution, our mild govern
me t, and truly upright and immaculate
administration. Here I must give a kind
a <1 urefill caution to my fellow;-citizen
not to dream, if pollible, about state as
fa : rs ; but if th ydo dream and cannot
iiefj* it, i ifr- htm s o contr»v£**wf]'y
and means to have the f ene at a great dif
tar.ee from home ; I have pursued this
plan myfelf, and I can dream about poli
tics with the greateit ease, and what is bet
ter, with perfect security. My method is
this, whenever 1 fufpeft that I (hall dream
upon politics, I immediately take up Ro
bi.ifon Crufoe,or Cooke's voyages,and 'ad
about the celebrated ill ind and kingdom
of the former, or the valuable difioveries
of the latter ; or if AnfoVs voyage is not
upon the bigheft fhelf of the library, I
. read his description of Juan Fermandes, or
of Tinian, four times over, by which
means I become perfectly miniated, and
what is more, the island, which is the scene
of my visions, is quite unconneited with
Great Britain and Ireland, and whatever
I may dreain has no relation to any thing
that exists in these regions of knowledge,
peace and liberty.
A few nights ago, the Symptoms of
dreaming were very flrong, and therefore
in all halte I took up Anfon's voyage, and
read the description of Juan Fernandes,
quoties fufficit, that is to fay. four times,
and then putting out the candle,l fell asleep
and beginning to dream, I thought 1 was
on board the Centurion. I saw the beau
tifu. cascade described by the commodore's
hiflorian, and fancied I could have drank
a Scotch pint of it ; indue time I got on
shore, a .d rambled into the woods, leav
ing my cou itrymen occupied at the shore.
I thought the island was inhabited and
soon found myfelf present at a meeting of
the yeomanry of the island, which had
been previously called to decide upon
some political affairs. All of a sudden, I
heard agr at cry of, put out that fellow,
he is an alien. I told them that was my
jnisfortnne, not my fault, that an indivi
dual could not do them any injury, and
that I was altogether in their power be
titles, that I was a citizen of the woi Id and
considered all mankind as brethren—upon
this I was allowed to"be a fpeftator and an
hearer, hut it was determined that I should
not vote or speak in the meeting, yet a
promise was made, that if I should live ic
years in the island, behave peaceably, and
prudently, and acquiretvvo hundred coc
kle (hells per annufn, real cftate, or two
tnoufand ihells in property, and pay all
taxes, &c. I (hould then be enfranchifed.
Well, the debate commenced, and an el
derly gentleman with an enormous wig,
m ule of goats hair, read some resolutions
expreflive of their high veneration for the
Fernandian Conflitution. He acknow
ledged indeed, comparing the faicl confli
tution to a three man, that two of
S A T U R I>A Y, June i, 1793.
the legs were very much fuelled, and t!ie
other leg for.ew hat withered; but, fays he,
it is better to have this conflitution with
all its faults, and if it had many more,
than to have recourse to physic, efpeiiallv
as the phjficof the island was rather dr-t -
lie, very apt to gripe the bowel;. and
fometimcs brought oil the pile:—He there
fore concluded a tiring o resolutions,
with the following cbferv tior, uau.elv.
that to plump up the withe. Ed leg, it would
be proper to administer cordials, strong
filh broth, calves feet jiliy, &c. —and ii
these medicines fliouid be ineffe&ual, he
advised that the deficie:icy and deformity
be remedied, by drawing on a great num
ber ofilockir.gs, which would make the
legs look well enough ; from some circum-
Aances I was led to suppose, that the
small leg was the democratic part of their
conflitution.
When this man had done speaking, and
the firft resolution was moved, a.,d the
motion seconded : a little fel ow with a
leal (kin bonnet, rose up and opposed what
I took to be the general ienfe of the meet
ing ; he said, molt rashly and impertinent
ly, that there was no conflitution in the
island of Fernandes ; upon which he was
immediately called to order; but he fail!
iie could prove his aflVrtion, and accord
ing y was permitted to proceed, though 1 I
pcrceived that inoft of the old people ii
the afleiiib y were highly provoked at him,
and called him a puppy for presuming to
;loubt what they believed from th« ir infan
cy ; they said they had n ade up their mind'
upon the matter, that they won.d not al
tei their opinions, and that if they had no
confluution it was better for foeie y to be-
e that they had one, and that it was a
gijod one ; now this I highly approvtd of,
nut Squileito. that being the name of the
little jackanapes, said that wherever the
i uling power is absolute, there can be no
conflitution, unlef the will of the filler;,
he the conflitution, and then it lnuft be si;
aucfi- i i.lcr many realoris,
nat it coulu not de ene the name of a
oonftitution, becfiuCe every time the rulino
powers chaiged their Rii d,the conflitution
•■vis changei: al.o if then,fay* he,the form
of govei rimenain Fernaiules is I'o organi
zed, that the feverai power - can < heck and
balance each other ; this is a business be
tween themlVlves—aril when they have
fetrled these ir. ..ter to their faii.sf.,£lion,
ano have jgreed to make and exeiute eer
tain laws, and to impose and levy certain
taxes; then, continues Sqiiletto, the peo
ple of Fernandes are ab oh tely fubji it to
the decilioii of the three branches of their
legillature, and ii there are nu botnds pre
scribed to the power of these th ee bran
ches acting i.i concert, if they can repeal
lawsmadefor the public weal and enatl
whatever they please, the government of
Fernandes is as absolute as that ol ( 011-
llantinople. Now was not this an impu
dent little fellow? what he said would
have been palled over in (ilent contempt,
as no doubt it deserved, had it not been
for the zeal of Glumdug, who thought
t!,at such words were very improper ; he
observed that one of the branches of the
legifiature wascompofed of the represen
tatives of the peoplesrights, and that there
never w is an inflance known of their be
traying their sacred trull, that in their
hands the rights of the people were prr
feftly secure, th .t if it cou.d be fuj p ifed,
(he begged pardon for the very (uppofui
on) that the other two branches of the le
gifiature had any delign 10 encroach upon
the liberty of the kibp-ci, the reprefei.ta
tive body, would, eve.y man of them, lay
down their lives rather than betray their
conflituents. What, fays he, will any
man dare to fay that we have no conflitu
tion, because we have no written instru
ment agreed upon by the people, either
by themfeives or by their representatives
as a constitutive aflembly ? if the people
have never made a constitution for them
selves, what then ? there has been one
made lor them, and a better one than they
could ever have made, or ever can make ;
this conflitution is written on our hearts,
and we w ill maintain it, and we w ill not
reform any of its abuses ordeftfls if it has
any, because this would be too great a
coiidefcenlion, and would encourage the
people to go further from time to time,
and where this would end no body know
At this time an officer with a guard, ar
rived, and took Squiletto into cuflody,
and one of the halberdiers turning round
gave me such a thump upon the nose with
the end of his halbert that I awoke, and 10,
it was but a dream.
N. B. The Britifli have eftablilhed in
Ireland, a horrid and damnable coiirt ol
Inquilition. " The peralle. (f«y they) be
tween the dreadful court of Inquilition in
he plemitude ol its terrors, and a certain
n«"vv created tribw-al, is remarkably Un
king ; the one was ipftituted for suppres
sing the freedom of thought, in religious
m.itters.the other in political-, the one em
ployed a number of spies, ca.led familiars,
who iolinuated thenil'elves into all compj
uies, discovered their sentiments, ajie:
marked out the victims devoted to de
ttru&ion ; the other hath also its spies for
the like purpose ; the .one tore from the
bosom of his family the fuCpected person,
and dr.igged him without any legal proce
dure before their tribunal j ■ the other
does the fame ; the one tried by interroga
tories. in fecrct, anil condemned without
vvitntfiesor jury : the other proceeds ex
acliy in a limilar manner ; in fine, the only
d.tference between them is, that the for
mer made uf<; of torture during the exa
mination, which we believe is not, as yel
employed by the latter, in as much a? thai
horrid mode of extorting confeflion ha<
been in disuse in this country for more thar
a century.
Yelierdaya person, after having under
gone interrogatories belore the secret com
mittee, was committed to Newgate.
Extratts from French papers—March 20
Paris, March 28. r. There is not an afl
of baienefs but arillocracy has recourse tc
n order to strengthen her party in Lon
don. Pamphlets, hand-bills, fpies,fawning
gold, inquifitioiis and perlecutions art
alike applied to for this purpose. Your
good l.nglii: men thus explain the vorc
equalityb current among the French.—
1. It is a universal plunder of all
by mobs.—2. An equal divilion ot lands,
that is to fay, an agrarian law. Acqui
sition of pi vpetty l.- vin the irottbiesHjf ifie
times, rather than from labour and fruga
lity. ffy lucb inclinations, the creduloui
Knglifii are led to beiieve that no such thing
as political equality can exilt in the world.
It is aftonilhing the pains that are taken in
that unfortunate island to subdue the spi
rits or the inhabitants—An arbitrary au
thority can now arrelt any person whether
walking or Handingftiil, whether lilent 01
speaking ; • hether in town or couutry.
ill the fime ; tyranny leaves no corner
unexplored. No more liberty of the press.
and man's difafieflion or alfeition to go
vernment i.; couftrued from the very ges
tures of his bidy. Even the right of peti
tioning is new withdraw 11 from the peo
ple.—We have it alio from the very firll
authority, that London is at this moment
in the lituatipn of Paris in 1789, and thai
a general explosion w ill foontake place.
2. Every thing indicates a speedy revo
lution in England. This cannot be rect -
oned Orange if we take a view of their
political condition. From the year r6Sf
the Engjifh have been governed by a con
vention of priests and 111 bles, under a fori
of feuoal contrail which they miscall con
stitution. Educated from their cradles r
ar. opinion that they are free, they have
flunibered for more than a century on the
pillow of this iliufion. The French revo
lution has awakened them from this idle
dream. They now blufli at their creduli
ty, and wifli to recover the rights wrefled
from them by those immortal knaves, king*
nobles, and prielis, and that scum of go
vernmental servility which floats 011 the
fiirfac eof every nation on the globe. The
people ftippofe themselves free because ai
every return of those periodical farces
called elections, they go publicly tc
give their votes for candidates previoufT>
fixed on by the government, and are al
lowed to utter some foolifh jokes again!!
the minifler, or to draw caricatures, poll -
liticaily tolerated, the better tofnbje£l the
fouls and bodies of the governed to the
will of the governors. Notwithttardinj
all this, how ever, the political situation ol
the people in England is not exaitly the
fame with that of the French in r 789- In
I France the clergy formed alone a power
| f ill body, utterly detached from the people,
and therefore the more dangerous. In
England the toleration of all religions has
multiplied feels, and cf consequence the
miniflers of all poflib'e creeds. Self inte
rest being the ruling motive with these
vicegerents of the deity, as well as with
other men, and as priests will in every
country be neither more nor less than
p>riefts, an inveterate scheme has l&uj, pre-
[Total Numb. 166.]
vailed in England, between the votaries of 1
tlie effablilhed church and the dijfej.ttrs.
I he teachers of the latter, being fupportexl
by their followers, 2nd both deprived of
all political rights and piiMie-emploj ment»,
are the determined opponettfs. of <V religi
ous, a roy 1, and a parliamentary aristo
cracy; The priefthuotl ajid the people
being thus divided against itfelf in Eng
land, clerical and royal tyraflrfy may possi
bly not experience to sudden a downfall
as in France.
' 3., A republican government fhmild be
fatinded upon »he .human virtues and the
aflive fpint of patrionfm. The general
argument against repilblicanifin in France
re,, the want of virtue in the people, to
fuppqrt that Species of government' But
(conlidering theftate to -ctnirti tii French
have beeivdegratled by tyfaraiy) how is the
natipitto 1;j renovated to a fenfe'of virtu
ous principles, except by tlie violent efforts
ol a political revolution ? The continu
ance of defpotifin would have funk us still
deeper into the gulph of ignorance, arid
had the Bourbon race continued to reign,
every faculty of the human mind would
have been degraded lower and lower and
at length loco motion b^enalone permitted;
and not even that but for the mercenary
purpoles of tyranny. Tlie revolution
then, m«li beget a gradual tendency to
wards republicanism, as knowledge ii crea
ks, even if the monarchical fyliem, b> the
union of tyrants, should be for a time for
ced upon the nation. We did not abolish
royalty to leave its restitution 111 the hand*
of falfe republicans. Whatever our .re
butments may be supposed, kings have
only beendeflroyed in France, to p.eferve
the sacred rights of man. In many thing*
we have bfen wrong. In imitation of
Athens we for a while eftablilhed the ostra
cism : but this was not fanftionec! by the
voice of the people ; and Atiiti.s was only
a small republic. France, on the contrary,
conltytm£.s a republic, \i Inch altho'imtaenia
!fill requires unity of government. 11l
Athens the people generally governed by
themselves directly; 111 1-ranee the go
vernment is by representation. Athens,
by reason of her infigmficance, feaied the
i fluence of a fugle individual, and there
by meant to prelerve Liberty and 1 quality*
Hut filch a fear, once admitted into the
French councils, would overthrow the
rights of man, and destroy equality,
~ Fremthe New-York Journal, ofMayij.J
WHEN the brig Orange lefi Bristol,
(April 12) it was reported (hat Da
mourier had gone to Paris at the head of
his army, for thepurpofe of declaring the
dauphin king, be, Pumourier, having beta
worried out withthe abujes of the conven
tion, and being convinced, that none but
dejpots could govern Frenchmen, & c . <^ c .
A letter to a refpeflable merchant in N.
York, intimi tes, that a speedy peace is
expected, and that the inducement to that
belief is, the late conduct of Dnnioufier
but the writer does not mention what that
conduct is. The inference would seem
to be ffuppofing the desertion of Dumott
rier and a general dtfeftion) that defpotifnt
will soon be re-established, and war cea.'e 1
London papers are received to the 10th
inclusive, in which there is not one official
account of Dumourier'sdefeif on. 'j here
is a variety of reports, purporting that
all France is in a terrible fati of coniufions
various debates in the Club, in
which, it is f3id Bournon-nille was impeach
ed, and many other emhuliartic measures
entered into - In the Sun, of the torh of
April, which is the lateit paper received
the follow ing paragraph appears :
" It is now rumoured, tha.Dumcltrier
havingfound reason 10 fufpefl the sincerity
of a great part of his army, in the promises
they had gnen to support him in si s plan of
marching to Paris, and placing young Lc u
isan the throne, had left his army, ,it tie
head of a regiment ot caval.y, and gone to
the Austrian army. We give this merely ai
a r port; we may howeyer add, that no
official intelligence of any such even: has
been received."
This account is nearly the fame as the
one via Cape Francois— and bv it ard the
other accounts, the public mv.ft be convin
ced, that some 11 omentum defections have
taken place in France, much agaii.fl the
republican intercfl— but the particulars of
these defeflions are net yet developed "or
difgorgt d from that abominable niafj D f
political 1 uniour and intrigue, which in
creases by deception, and conlolklatps by
bejijß #tij)tiii)i;tlly heaped upon. *The Sun ( a London miuißerial paper of
"the Bth) contains some very intereiling
matter, if i; could be relied 011 as authen
tic, particularly a dialogue between Du
mourier and ti;e CtSmmillioners whom the
Convention had Cent to him, in which he
complains bitterly of the Convention antl
come of their edicts, declare* his prefeni
fe. timertts respecting France, occ. &.c.
On Thnrfday arrived the schooner Go
vernor Clinton, Capt. Harris, in ten day:
from St. Jerome (Cape Francois) with ;
confidentble number of p.illngers. —J?j
this vefTel we also learn of the arrival then
of a frigate from Brest, as mentioned a
bove, and that such accounts as are above
Ifated, were in general circulation there
It is Jaid, that a number of young men (fay
50] from the Cape, who went out againU
the insurgent negroes, had been cut tc
pieces, and that a vajl number of the in
habitants were wishing for an Erglilh in
valion !
A French 20 gun (hip was spoken in Bos
ton Bay a few days Once.
The French statement of their navy a
mounts to 192 ships of war, 81 of which
are of the line.
The British fleet now in commiflion a
mount to 110 fail, 56 of which are of thf
line.
Elbridge Gerry, and George Thaftch'er
Efqrs. two members of Congress fron
Maflachufetts, are cle£ted Senators in the
legislature of that state.
Elilha Lawrance, Esq. present officiating
governor of the Hate of New-Jersey, hai
ifilled his proclamation, enjoining a ftrifl
adherence to that of the President of the
United Srates, refpe£ling the neutrality ol
the American States.
LONDON, April 8.
Counter Rev lution in France.
THE accounts of the different defeat!
Experienced by the French army, which
reached Paris in fucceflion almost daily,
produced the molt general confirmation
among all ranks of people. Among the
members of the Convention in particular,
the alarm was very great. Different mem
bers denounced General Dumourier as a
base traitor, who, preferring gold to the
love of his country, had received bribes
from t ,eir enemies, as an ambitious villain,
who, under the maSt of patriotism, had
used every artifice to attach the aimyto
himfelf, to seduce the soldiers of the re
public from the duty they owed to their
country ; and to destroy those in battle
Wliom he could not corrupt by his flatteries.
Different letter-, from general Dumou
rier, and coiiverfations which he had held
yith the commilfioners in Belgium, in
which he plainly told them the prelent form
of government could not be maintained,
w ere produced in support of these charges,
in winch it was all.dged, he olfered the
grossest infnlt to the convention, the re
prel\ntatives and defenders of the sove
reignty of the people, by taking upon him
the office of legdlator ; dictating to them
the conduct they lhonld follow; cenfnring
tile laws which they had palled in the name
of the sovereign people, particularly the
decree of the 10th of December, and fub
feqnent laws refpe&ing the organization of
government in those countries, which had
been freed from the yoke of tyranny, and
rellored to their rights as men ; and stig
matizing the members of the convention
who had been sent by them, and acted by
their authority in Belgium, as thieves and
robbers—thereby irnpreffing the people a
mong whom they were, with sentiments
respecting the views and motives of the
convention very foreign to those by which
they were actuated.
The difaflers which had befallen the
French army, the caufcs which operated tc
give the enemy the advantage, and thedif
miffion of the Sans Culottes, whom thej
Jtiled patriots, whom Dumourier could not
corrupt, and had therefore disbanded, were
all urged as proofs of his guilt.
Dumourier, in the mean time, had ar
ranged matters with some of his officers,
and carried his army back into France,
where he soon received intimation from his
friends of the plots laid to ruin him. A
decree ordering him to appear at the bar,
was carried against him in the convention,
and Bournonville, with five of its members,
accompanied by a secretary, were ordered
to bring him a prisoner to Paris.
Of this he was informed before the
miffioners reached his army, and took mea
sures accordingly.
It was Uie opinion of his friends, that,
even independently of the intelligence he
had received, the convention, as a body,
had fliewn an imbccill.ty and weaknefs,on
almolt every occasion, that proved them al
together unqualified to legislate for France,
which they had brought to the brink of
definition—lt was agreed, that means
fliould be followed to impress the army
with proper sentiments respecting the con
duit of the convention, in numerous in
stances, and particularly towards their gen
eral, who had shared every danger with
them, whose valour they had all Witnefled,
and whole trood CO: ul(K"t alone had preser
ved them from entire definition, and en
abled them to make a good retreat from
a country which hael received them as
friendi ;.nd brothers, but which had be
come their enemy by the unjust ex.- .Hons
levied by order of the convention, and the
cunfltaints put upon their freedom after
the honour of the French nation had been
pledged that they (hould be left at free li
berty to chute their own form of govern
ment.
The army, by the read'.nefs -with which
they agreed to fnpport their generals, (hew
ed, th.a before it was proposed, they were,
almolf to a niin, inclined to put an end to
the tyranny of the convention. Want of
individual confidence alone had prevented
them from proclaiming their sentiments to
each other before.
We have net room to give a long detail
of the subsequent bulinefs. Suffice it for
the present to lfate, that the general voice
was tor reltoring, with a few modifications,
the cenftitution decrecd by thefirft orcon
ltituent assembly, viz. a limited monarchy.
—It is eren believed, that Tome of the
commillioners themselves approved of the
meafnre.
When the commiflioncrs, on the firfl of
April, reached the army, they were put
under arreit, and sent next day with an es
cort to the Auflrian army, as prisoners of
war, and hoftagesfor the fafety of the roy
al family.
In the letter which Dumourier sent with
them to Clairfayt, he calls the dauphin the
young king, and oft'ers some of the frontier
towns as a security that he would perform
the promise he had made to overthrow the
Convention, and reflore a monarchical
government —The comni'ffioners are now
faftly lodged in the Citadel of Antwerp.
The French army has mounted the white
cockade, and dilpatches from the duke of
York, and Sir James Murray, confirm the
intelligence that Dumourier has set out
for Paris.
A fufpenflon of hostilities between the
Auflrian and French armies hastakenplace.
To the PRESIDENT of the
UNITED STATES.
S I R.
\7IF.WING you merely in the charafler
* of iii It magiltrate of that country, of
which I ani a citizen, and knowing yon to
t>e amenable to yotir fellow citizens for
Conr official conduct, I lhall make 110 apo
ogy for calling your attention to thelol
lowing obfervacious which I communicate
through the channel of a public print, be
cause the subject is one in which the Ame
rican public is deeply interested.
When you iflued a proclamation, decla
ring on the part of the United States, a
Itriit impartiality and frietidjhip towards
ill the belligerent powers, from the double
motive of iuty anc! interejl, it might rea
[Yinably hive been expected that you would
liave rendered vourftlf cltarly intelligible
:o the citizens of America, and to the
worhl ; and that nothing mjfteriotls or of
double meaning would have been promul
jed by the ele&ive executive of a fres
.ountry. Whatever has the appearance of
double dealing ; whatever favours of mon
archical mystery or court intrigue ; what
?ver may have a tendency unnecessarily to
controul the sentiments or infringe the
privileges of the people—however fafhion
able such things may be in the corrupt
:ourts of Europe, they ought surely to be
rejected, with abhorrence, by those tempo
rary magistrates to whom are committed
the concerns of the American republic. As
the proclamation has not the mod distant
allusion to the treaties exiting between
France and the United States, there is room
tor ftirmiling, that those treaties, from
which we have long enjoyed important ad
vantages, are now to be considered as of no
obligation, ai d this, 1 believe, is the light
in which many have confirued the pro
clamation.
But, if this be the true conftruftion, how
can the proclamation be conlidered as con
fident either with our duty or interejl ?
With our duty it cannot accord, so long as
eve pretend to any faith as a nation, or re
member, with gratitude, the circutnftances
under v hich our treaties with France were
concluded, and the generous exertions of
hat nation in the cause of American li
berty. It it be the duty of a free nation to
forget those friends to whom she is in a
jreat mealure indebted for a national ex-
Itence ; to view with cold indifference the
ftruggtes of those very friends to support
their own liberties against an host of *lef
pots ; and, in spite of the reciprocal ties of
national treaties, to treat an inveterate and
:ruei enemy with the fame friend/hip a'
t>ur belt and molt faithful ally.—lf such be
the duty of Americans, as declared in the
proclamation, then is that proclamation to
3e regarded as difgraceful to the American
:hara£ter.
With respect to that line of conduit which
interejl requires America to observe, per
mit me to remark, that it never can be
confident with the interest of a nation,
basely to disregard its plighted faith, and
thereby incur that difgraceful character for
which ancient Carthage became prover
bially infamous among the nations of the
earth. Let me hint further, that it is by
no means confident with the interest of
the United States to provoke the French
nation 10 hostilities; a cor.sequence natu
rally to be expected from the violation of
foleimi treaties.
It has been u*gencroufly fuggeficd by
many ihat we run no danger ot being in
volved in the war with Fiance, how ever
infatjious our conduct towards her may be,
" For, fay they, ft will be for the inureji
of France that America Ihould not be en
gaged in the war, but be left to fnrniih
Lhoie fnpplies as a neutral nation which are
so neceiiary to the fultenance of her army
during the war."—These Solomont, howe
ver, may find themselves ntiltaken. Franee,
tho'delirous of peace and frleudfi'.ip with
us, is surely not intenfible to injury; neither
is (he so abje£t as tamely to submit to an
open violation of faith by any nation.—
RWt-rving some further obfervationi for a
future letter, I shall not at this time tref
[)afs too far upon your attention.
May 30th. VERITAS.
For the National Gazette.
Citizen Fret/eau,
tT would appear by the sentiments of an
- anonymous writer in Mr. Dunlap's pa
x-r of Saturday, that the farmers ol Penn
ylvania are not only to fubiuit to have their
property violated by a company of interest
(I men, but that it is a higil offence for
[hem to meet together in order to conlider
he bess means ot redress. Such may be the
lady opinion < f an individual, but, forthc
lonor of the Itate, we trull it will not be
:ouud the ientiment of the people. The
e olutions and address of a number of ci
.izens refpefting the turnpike and canal
srojefts, contain no observations that are
not warranted by the occalion, or j.uftified
jy the unexampled injury offered to a free
people.
'I he Legiflatnre and the citizensof Tenn
ylvania have been imposed on by aflertions,
:hat in England, from whence we derive
Hir maxims of government, canals are
I'ound so beneficial that they are never op
jofed. We are warranted in declaring this
jflertion to be falfe. By threats in lome
:afes—by fair promises in others—and by
bribery, canal companies have in moll cases
;ffe£led their designs. But in feveralinltan
_es they have been fuccef fully oppoied by
Powerful individuals. In March lall, a Mr.
Otirzou opposed the Alhbey
:anal, becanfe its neceflary length & depth
if cutting within the rock which contained
Vlr. Curzon's I'pring, would injure the
pring, by which his house was supplied
ivith water. Mr. Curzon also objeftcd to
he Alhbey de la Zouch canal. because the
ntended course of it would interfere with
lis plan of extending the limits ofhispark.
Although canals may in some itlftances
lave been found beneficial', leading to large
ind populous manufacturing towns ; yet
he increase of them of late years has been
"onnd by experience to be so as
.0 demand the particular interference ot
government. On the 14th of March 1-93,
in the canal bills, all the lords were fntn
moned to attend—Lord Stanhope prefent
;d to the House the resolutions refpefting
:anah : and their lordlhipsunanimoufly or
dered that these resolutions Ihould be en
ured on the journals.
111. That no canal bill (hall be read a
bird time in the House of Lords, unless
notice of the intention of tutting such ca
nal shall have been infertcd three times in
:he London Gazette, in the months of An
jult and September, previous to the session
us Parliament, in which such bill Ihzll be
Drought in, and unless a notice lias been
printed in the country papers of the town
hrough which such cailal is intended to be
:ut in the months of August and September.
2d. That these notices shall contain the
lames of the parishes and townlhips, and
of no other, into which such canal, &.c. is
ntended to be cut.
3d. That no bill shall b<? read a third
:ime in the House of Lords unless a map of
:he intended cut has been deposited w it:; t ie
:lcrk of Parliament, describing the line, to
gether with a Sook of reference containing
i lift of the names of the owners ar.d oc
:upiers of such lands refpeftively, with an
innexed eltimate of the expense, signed by
he perfou or persons who are to make the
aine; with also an account of the funis
hen fubicribed, and names of the fub
cribers.
4th. No bill (liould be read a third time
mlefs application has been made to the
owners of the lands through which such
:anal is to pass, for their coi lVnt ; and un
less the map or plan has bei« thewn to such
nwners, diltinguilhing who hasafiented and
who has diflented from such intended ca
lal, and unless the map has been deposited
with the clerk of Parliament.
The arbitrary and unjust principles of
the canal and turnpike law s, and the inso
lent and abusive manner in \\ hich they have
been thus far carried fcito effect, occalioned
the late meeting of the farmers, and w ill
occasion others for the purpole of procur
ing redress. In pursuing this bulinefs, so
highly interesting to onrfelves, we shall ait
with fkmnefs, but decency ; and if our
conduit Ihould offend some individuals w ho
may be interelfed in supporting the eviU a
gainst which we complain,we are willii gto
;>ive such characters any personal futisfai:ion
they may require, but shall not difgtate
our cause, or stain the public prints, with
language unbecoming freemen, in ahfaer
to an) ribaldry or abuse of anonym its wri
ters.
Whatever mpy lie niir prefe-t opinion of
turnpike and canal incorporated companies
we are opt 11 10. cor.vicTum, and wouid en ink
any real friends to tile improvements of our
country, to come forward and prove by
fair argument, that it was not the duty of
the legillature on this novel a id important
occasion, to h'ive con.'ulfed their conltitu
ents, * that previous to their enaciing the
laws, the fame caution of violating p. irate
property fliould not have taken place as has
been purlued by the parliament of Great-
Britain—that the laws are not highly inju
rious and unjult toilie agricultural interest,
or that they will finally prove beneficial to
the commonwealth.
In behalf «/" the meeting at iht Prince
of Wales .
GEORGE LOGAN
* Sidney, in his excellent cTeonrfe on
government, observes, " many members in
all ages and sometimes the whole body oC
the commons have refu ed to vote tiil they
confultwl tlnife who sent thciji- Thehouiei
have been often adjourned to give them
time todo this : and if this were done more
frequently, or if towns, cities-, and counties,
had on some occalions g'nen irlliuc.ions tu
their deputies,matters would probably have
i;one better in Parliament tiian they nave
often done."
PHIL A DELP H I A.
Saturuay, June i.
Extract of a tetter from a gftleman in
New-York, dated May 28, to his friend in
this city.
"The fum'of advices received by the April
packet are of the inuft melancholy c ait ;
not for France alone, but they place Eng
land in an equally perilous iituati->n." Let
ters are received from tny correfpondenis
at Bristol, Liverpool, Birmingham. &c. ail
of which places are in the deepelt distress t
the principal trading tow 11s in England are
ruined, and the nation itfelf is 111 the utmost
danger of a general banki uptcy. The ml
niller. Pitt, lias b-en reduced to the great
est distress in filling the loan, no coll peti
tion being to be obtained among the money
lenders. The fubferiptions were finally
made up through the i: tinencr of jobbsaml
ihe agency of runners, solicitors, &c. em
ployed by Pitt himfelf, and n< thing but a
gleam of success from Holland has hither
to saved the nation from a dreadful con
vulsion, which would yet be inevitable,
(hotild an/thing serve to throw America
into the scale of opposition and a union with
France in the prelent wit. —In addiiion to
the above (which is exirafted from fevtral
letters) a friend of the best information in
London thus writes to n;e • " The Arr.< •
rican government has now an opportunity
thaf may never retL-rn, of ftctiririg their
western commercial interests tipon its own
terms, provided Britith men ;»ni( Bririfh
measures 2re not too deeply interwoven in
the councils of America, and lliameful fa
crices made from that cause. Neutrality
isanxioufiy wifiied lor, as the policy ot
America, and the contrary deprecated with
fear and trembling."
OnTnefday the 27th inft. Citizen Bom
pai d, the COiiltnaildiirg Cflicer of the Fri
gate l'Ambufcade, having invited Generst
Mifflin, Governor of Peimfylvania, Gene
rals Knox and Stewart, Mr. Bingham. Co
lonel Sniith, and Mr. Thomas Lee Shipper.,
to dine with him oil boaid of the r 1 gate - r
they accepted of his invitation, and went
on board at 3 o'clock, in company with Ci
tizen Genet, Minister Plenipotentiary of
the French Republic.
After dinner was over, frveral hymns sa
cred to liberty were i'rtog with alt the en
thulialin of feeling, and the following
tojlts were drank : —
1. The American and French Republic*
—May they be forever united 1 (u salute
of twenty one guns.)
2. The PrefirlcnT of the United States.
3. The Rights of Man—may tftey be
come ur.iverlaf law !
4 The Republican fair.
5. The Frigate PAmbufcad? —(a volun
teer by the Governor ol Peimfylv.-nia )
The Artillery Men went through the"
cxercife bcJore the American generals,
who appeared fstisffed with the preciliou
with uhich tile whole was performed.
As the Americnn citizens were preparing,
to leave the frigate, citizen Dtyoi.t, the
boatswain, addrefied them in the : am-, of
!iis mefimates.in a speech replete with feel
ing, and nearly as follows :
•' You fee before you your .rood f >nds
" the French. Several ot us have filed their
" blood to eftablilh your liberty .111.1 inde
"peinler.ee ; we are willing, it nec< I'ary,
" to died to th» Uil di op of what rem.: 1m .
" for the maintaining of that freedom,
" which like you we have acquired. -We
" are If ill your good friends ami brethren,
*' and if you should igain » ant >111 . Milt
'• ance, we (hall alwajs be re d-, to give
" you proofs of oi.r a tatiimei !."
Tiie Governor aufwtrid this artkfs rind
energetic addrefr by exprtfih g hi nn.!. lin
cere wiflies for the li: primol - :• i. .ch
na.iou, and the fucceta«.f the . 1 g. ;c i'A;ii
bulcade-
On boarding thefrgnre, the Amb f.a'or
war iaaued with sii gnus-, which were re-peateil by all the Frsncfc thlp- that were in
tim pore.' He then repaired on board the
fh.p Vniable, commanded by Captain Pau ,
rheb ave a-d generous American, who had
the good fortu ie of saving the whole crew
and the molt valuable part of the cargo ot
the French hipLaßelieCreole. Citizen Ge
net exprefled to him in the name oi the
French nation, all the gratitude ot his
countrymen for this noble exertion. He
info -ined In u, at the fame time, ot the vote
of th i iks decreed to him by the National
Convention. Captain Paul received the
Ambilfuloi- with cordiality and citizen
Genet is he left his veflel, was saluted
with feveril hearty cheers
an<l the American citizens who were all.m
bled in great numbers on the wharf.
The inhabitants of Carlisle, m
vania are preparing an adelref. to citizen
Genet. The citizens of Bolton alio mean
to (hew their approbation ot French prin
ciples by adelreiiing him at then" enfu.n £
town-meeting.
The following paragraph, in a Lon.lor
paper, under the date of April Tekth -
Lmnts to a proof, that a very £«■*{"'.
th- late dkaftrops accounts ot FrencH
affairs, transmitted to us through the medi
um of British prints, are without f ° u ' K *' "
tion ■ it may even be inferred from wha
follows, that Dumonriei-'s elefe.uon itfe.l
out it at present to be heul very ~robl ma-
"All the reports w rich hnve fprunj
up iii the course of the week, pretended u
through Jersey, by an Americat
jivp; bv gentlemen who came over vv.U
the Fla iders mail, and who have been grca
travellers— of Paris being on fire 111 a hun
dred places. of the insurgents m Britann;
havi-ig defeated L abourdonnaye, take
Brett. and sent a contemptuons rt hi,at
an offer to treat from the convention ; o
Uimiourier's hiving arrived at Lille wound
H and been carried thence a priloner, b,
orders from the convention, Scc.&c.—wei <
vefterduy in full force.
We were unable to trace them to an;
credible laurce ; and the account-, trom ex
tend, that the Aultrians were not arnvec
there, and that the return ot the Fieuch
who had Hopped at a lliort pittance iron
it, was apprehended by the inhabitant
{hew, that the channel by which intelli
gent e from France is molt likely to be re
ceived, is not yet open "
The defiiLn of the French in evacuating
the Netherlands, is said to be to form a
compact body of military force a ong the
fron ier, to relist the utmolt effo. ts of the
Auiiri in, Prt-ilGan. BrUito.Ruffian and othe
defpors that may rife againlt the mlai
Hercules of liberty.
« The French (fays an Engliih p-.per) or
evacuating the Netherlands, <a ill probabl)
reinforce the gsrrifons ot Lisle and V alen
ciennes, and occupy their old ac.vantageo u
poli at Maulde. I'o that Dumoiir.ei, and the
generals of combined armies, will fine
thefflfelve, jnft where they were at the
opening of the last campaign. This is .
striking instance of the . eat ut.juy 01
wars and the vad service done to kings, a
well as to their lubjetK by the daughter o1
atleaft 50,000 human creatures-But the.
they were mostly creatures ot the fwinil.
maltitude—Aye, there's the difference.
A veflel was very lately spoken withal
sea, bound for Baltimore, that left the rm
ylilh channel the i6th of April- the 'all
accounts then received from London men
tioned not a word of Duinourier s detec
tion, out that he was retreating in the bed
order with his troops into France.—lt n
added that the corruption of the BntiH
prints is so great that very little credit cai
now be given to them in whatever rel.ue:
to France, except what is ilrittly official.
About twenty paflengers arrived here oi
Tuesday lalt in the (hip l.uterprize, Iron
Cadiz, which place lie lcit the Bih_o,
April. During her passage the Enterprise
was run foul of in the night by a bpamll
frigate of 44 ?<'"*» which damaged ha
conliclcr ibty but fortunately not Jo mucf
as greatly to impede her pro-r-'ls. Ihe pal
fencers above mentioned are moltly t reiich
men, who had relided many years at Ca
diz. several of them having wives'and chil
dren ; hat the king's proclamation obliged
them either to go to jail during the war,
or leave the kingdom. Their ettrtts were
seized, and very little allowed them to pa)
their expellees to America, which they liave
Chosen as an afjlum, during the present
troubles, in hopes hen tliele are at an end
to revilit their families.— At Cadiz, three
valuable French Eafl-India men. wl.c
knew nothing of the war, were seized 1,
the harbour. Intelligence had been re
ceived of the Prussians and Aullrians hav
ing resolved on the blockade ofMayence.
■where they expected to meet with a vigo
rous refdtance, altho' it was thought the
French would ultimately surrender. Ihe
French armv intended to acl againlt - pain,
it was said, was to be commanded by Gen.
Cnlline. A considerable squadron of bii
tilh, Dutch, and Ruffian ships of war we re
expected in a short time at Gibraltar, to be
joined by about 20 lliips of the line trom
Spain, lying ready at Cartha-gena.
The Ihip Grange, some time ago cap
tured in the bay of Delaware, by the tri
f ate L'Ambufcade, has been reltored to
the ou uers.
O i Tuesday US the fti? Ha^rd,
Delario arrived at New-York, in 4j
from Liverpool. By her is rece.-d a
London paper of April 9 th, containing the
following, letter (dated April 4)
person in the prince ot Saxe CoboWt,.
my to his friend in London, to thexontent
of which the Englilh editor assures his r
ers they may give the molt impl.cit crecl
" it is now generally understood here,
that after the defeat of Dumourier's arinv ,
of the 22d nit. he sent to the prince o:
Saxe Cobonrg, desiring an armtllice, win
a view of bringing on a negoc ation—Hal
he received foranfwer, that no negocia.
tion could be entered upon, unlets the
evacuation of Dutch Brabant ar.d the At I
trian Flanders were considered to be preli
minaries—that Dnmourier agreed to t.ic,<
terms, and Hated that he had once conceiv
ed himfeif engaged in a good « uf e> l '
that he had now completely a.tered hi
opinion of it; but though he 110 longei
had anv zeal in the cause, but on the con
trary was ready to turn bis arms agamlt it
he had hitherto held it his duty to fuppoi
it while it had a chance ot maintaining it
(elf - but that now he was afiiamed ot In
conduct, was fatisfied that no governmen
could be etiablilhed under the prefei.t ru
iers of France, and was ready to turn hi
arms against the Convention itftif—thotl t
Ihoilld proceed to Paris with 20 oco men
and delired the assistance of the prince <>,
Saxe Cebourg ill this enterprise. lor tin
purpof* of re-eltabliltag the French mo
>* In this intercourse, Dumourier rcpre
Cents Li'le and Valenciennes a» facing rea
dy to receive lis rmy, i-ir the purpole ti
which he proposes to devote it- , .
•• After (hole communications, the rain
fter of the war department, Mp.-.lieui
Botirnonviile, arrived to take the n-ni
hiand of the a my-and the con:innl;onen
front the assembly, to arrelt Dumourier
and carry him to the bar ot the affeitibl).
They were all fen: prisoners to general
ciairfayt ■ and on the 3d of this month
Dttmojrier attually n.irchtd with 2c,ccc
men to Paris, wh e he expected to ar
rive on the 13th of this month.
Some reports are in circulation, th»t sr
action took place, near the middle ot April
in the F.nglifh channel between an EngliU
and a French frigate, in * hich Capt. > oof
of the Englifli frigate, and sou to Lore,
Hood, 101 l a leg. No other particulars art
mentioned.
About thirty French prizes, moftl)
fchooiiers and (loops have been taken c.ll
- ;he month of April by th.-Jamaica cr
fers, about the welt end ot HUpamola.
and carried into Kingllon ha'rbuur.
On Sunday evening last, the French pri
vateer Ichooner Sans Culottes, Cap.ai.
Ferrie, with the snow Joseph, her prize.
ai rived .it Bal.imore. The lollovwng ex
tracts are taken from her log, booK. : -Apn
~ took the fclioo.ier Eunice, capt-in
Tucker, belonging te New Providence,
bou'.d to Philadelphia, and lent her uiu
Cliop'tank—May 5, chafed a Bernv.ulia.
(loop on more, two leagues N. ot tui ritue*
Inlfc-t —May 6, took the br.gianny, '.apt.
Piles of London, from Jamaica, bound u
Philadelphia; the lame day took the fchoo
ncr ;ohn. Captain Richard (on, from New
Providence, bound to Norfolk—May 1 j
took the lloop Spry, cap:aui Brown, t.0.,
Norfolk, bound to Now Providence— Maj
2-. ai 5 P- M. saw four fail of veflels, a.a
crave cnace ; they hoilied Englilh co.ou. >
tired each a gun to windward, aud to/inec
a line The Sans Culottescrowded ail (ail.
and at 11 o'clock came up with, and enga
oed them for 5 glalles. The mow Jc .eph.
Trom Norfolk, bound to Cat.iz, being
windward, brought all her guns to bear o
the Sans Culottes, in order to dilcliai
them into her, and then to up helm, ant,
run her down ; but the Sans Culottes s hi t
proving; too warm, before the dehgn coulc
be executed the Joseph struck, the captain
haviug received a cannon ball through hi.
-i-htthicn, and both In hards being U.ot
..it. A (quail ariling. the three other vc-f
---fels bore a* av : The Sans Culottes then
hove about, to take ca, eot her prize, u hen
a ding the captain of her dangeroully
wou:.ded, and having three wounded on
board the Sans Culottes, captain reny
. jve over the chace. —The Sans Ctilotte;
find 20 men, including otlicers 011 board,
when li.e took the Joseph, three of ttkoni
were wounded.
*in American and a Frenchman were
the othe dav (in New \ ork) converf.np
on politics. '1 hey both agreed " that it
■Vmcrica wonld pav the debt of gratitude
i, u to France, and both republics combine,
they would carry all before them, and
eventually put an end to that havoc and
uiiferv, the efft-ftof war, w!,i(h ithas been
he policy of kings a"d despots in all ages
0 encourage, to fopport the pride and
.onfequeßie of the well born, alias, the
1 uftans and fcoundi els of the human race '
Agreeably to late returns, the militia ot
New-Jersey is found to amount to twenty
nine thoufaud and fever,ty-feven men, be
tween the ages ot 18 and 45- * Included 111
tins enumeration are 14 artillery com P a "
i-.ies, 21 cavalry, 11 of grenadiers, and 2b
nf infantry.
''■ A n fromP hi ladelph ia, publ'fii
ed in a late Gazette, fays, tnat " the P'e '■
has spoke the fent'-nients of America
:ij ;his proclamation If I believed it,
Mould bin 111 for shame —I know it is tie.
che sentiment of any in the circle ol my
i ellow-citizcns —every good citizen anc 10
neit mail views France as ftruggiing in tle
c nife of l.eaveji and humanity, and
uncerely to aflill her, wliich he doth by 11-
pravers when he can do no ivore ; tor my
own part I think it is a (hame tor America
to be neuter in filch a cause ; but 1 am the
better reconciled when 1 recollett t.iat t -
merica lias not the means ot taking tm
iield,but that (he will cheerliilly.fhiu herfeli
to furnilh thein with bread. —N> liher h.-s
he spoke the Icntinients ot the tew putnla
nimous wretches, who feel a difpolition tc
fawn and cling at the foot ot a tyrant.
They view the righteous execution ol
Louis the XVlth.with horror, though hi:
trim- s would have exposed a thotifand net
it r men to the halter and the gibbet,w ithom
Lhe pay or compassion of a tingle individu
at. No dignity ot ltation can palliate crimes
but tend:, exceedingly to aggravate them
ihe feelings of these contemptible w retclie;
are ui.der the government of divine righ
i.i kings, and tnat they cannot do wrong
these creatures were not born in due tin.e
they ought to have ailed their part above :
century ago; they breathe out their po ■
kited willies, that An.erica would joii
Kncland, and tile tyrannical junto, ag; ml
France, herfelf, and heaven. Good Cm.
I tie,, lie at the thought 1 but "lyuerxe.
are f..on composed when 1 recollect tnai
heaven is in the alliance aeainit them, ant
that fie will beat them w"h a roc. ot iron,
and da 111 them in pieces like a potter svef
111—Be Wife, Oye kings—Be inftrtifledy;
, of the earth, tor the fame almight;
power which animated France to engage
a a.all a combination of tyrants, will can )
i.'cr triumphant xhrougli the mighty ft rug ■
zle—thus prays every good American.
" Noth'ng can exceed the insolence o,
the I'iititli cars ill this city, (fays a wrltei
intheGeneral A herti/er vf last 1 uefday
they feein difpoled to commit every fpetie:
of outrage. Si.nday afternoon Capt Pan
arrived here from ~t. Vincents, anc-l In
C! ,n nl ment to tlie French nation hoiltec
the national colours. The boatswain ol
•he Grange, wln/e brutality fattened upon
the kind treatment he received from tlit
French, went on board Capt. Paul s Imp,
tore down the nation .1 colours, and ti am
p/etl them u>. der his feet 1 The fellow . w li e
but a few days received every mdtil
. L . n ce from a 'generou- enemy, had the au
i'j lt ity to mf' It the n. t n amicHt then
friends by the greanlt indignity to it;
ti n-. Would any iran but a Britilh iaifoi
a [vebeengiliity ol fnc < unfuri,mate iiil..-
|~nee ? Briton- not only war a-amlt tilt
fared principles of liberty, but they wai
a,...'.nft every principle ot civility and hu
manity. LiUe cmnibas, nothing wil
~|u t them but the blOod of their enemies :
npon this they revel and fatten. Ihe
pa-e of hi■ iory is stained with their crimes,
and they seem to glory in perpetuating
their ferocity to the latest age-. — HOw
lone are the citizens of Philadelphia tc
endure the outrages upon their laws wliicr
iiave beep committed within atew weeks:
mail our bed friends be unprotected. f)ia
tiny not find an asylum from infuit.and it
treatment, even in the bosom of that coun
try to which they gave liberty and peace .
Forbid it honor ! forbid it gratitude . ior
bid it freedom. , , ,
Quere. Do the British fliilors, who have
noun idea beyond a tarpaulin, art iron
immillVs of their own, or are they ttimnla
ted by their en'pi yen to the coiiimifliotl ol
the violences fiiggelfed ?"
His Britannic Majesty's Consul-Genera,
for the middle and louthern states of Ame
rica. reti'dinc,in Philadelphia, has earnelt.)
recommended to the British fe. n«ri in this
port, and other British fubjerts, to demean
thipiufflves with good order and modera
tion. ami if injured, to seek redref, from
the laws of tilts country, in which they
will be alfilted by the consul general.
The fliip James, Captain Howard, ar
lived at New-York from London oa
Thiirfday lait, after a fiiort —
There are letters in town by this vessel as
late as the 14th April ; fume mention the
French forces as fuccefsfifl, others ltate
the probability of a monarchical govern
ment bein>; finally eflaolifhed in Fiance —
Accounts by this vetfel are said to confirm
Dumotirier's defection. A London paper
of the uth of April I'ates that General Dll
- was not able to perfu .de liiore
than two regiments todefert the cause ot
liberty. It isalfOfaicJ, that Dumourit rh, 1
been taken prisoner, and brought back
to Paris. Particulars by this vessel in our
next.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
Six pet Cents
Three per Cents 1 *
Deferred 1
<vf the United States S r, c.
A few Copl* of lhe Firjl Volume of lie
National Gazette, to be had at ibis OJj t a.
PROBATIONARY ODES;
Bv Jonathan Pindar, tfq- a coulin of Pe
,fr\ ; and candidate for me poll of
Poet-Laureat.
o D F. I-
To all tli e great folks in a l'imp -
Thehumble petition ot Joii. than; coutafn
ins after ti>e manner of otne< ca'.atdnte
lor honors and offices, many !air promt*
fes, which pcradventure may never be>
fulfilled.
Corfcd'ere dttee,, " vulgijlante corona
Surgit ad hos Jonathan*
SO please your Woifbif s, Honors, Lokdsiiips|
Graces !
1 Jonathan to Peter PrNoar coulin,
Hearing that ycu pofiels a mini of places
Have come to alk lor less ihan half a a. zen.
1 ask not that to serve ms you fliould quit
You. lolty stations or turn out your iriends :
Ni I've more conscience ! and as once admit
Vuur duty's to conlult on means and ends.
Thcfe enis once anfwei'd —and the means ob-»
taiiTd,
To Jonathan's petition lend an ear ;
Nor th nk his young ambition d,
Head of Department fh.uid his claim appear.
Heads of Department!, we have fern, can jurop
At oncc intu themyfteriesof their a<t :
Not Richmond's Dukes excels great.K—* th#
plump . .
Not Law Jto H » w » uld h ' s P ilt4
I alk not dollars ; though in truth a few
Would gingle iweet.y in a poet's purse :
And since t' encourage arts § belongs to you,
A penlion would not make the thing the wore*
1 a Tic not fuel) a patronage as brings
l a brother beads an influence far and wiae ;
Commffions, leans, douceurs, jobbs, pretty things^
bunk votes, direlio'/hips, and offices bclide.
Let others, patrons —me, your client oe.^
1 have abundant zeal, and long to <hew it;
To celebrate your praises make me free
And dub me here, at once, your Laureat Foeti
I'll puff y<w to the clouds I —and, by the pigs.
Whilrt there its iirightelt arch the rainbow fprtadJ t
Comets (hall lend their tails to make you wigs,
And powder'd sunbeams glitter on your heads.
I'll swear to all the world—you never dipp'i
In Speculators' kennel your poor hands ;
That not a foul of you e'er dealt in Icnpt:
l'o prove my words your broker read) (lands.
I'll f av —that bank-direflors f though you are,
No private interelt ever Iways your vfte :
That you are chosen, juli to fee all fair,
And who ihall "win or left, caie not a groat*
I'll swear—the nation's debt's a tiffing frf **
Which far and wide its genial inftu.-nce tfi'ds,
F,om wl.ence paßolian fho-wert iefcrnd lo la.«
On theirs —id e]i—the peculators' neads.
That to increase this bleHing, and entail tt
To future times i«* influence benign,
New leans from foreign nations cannot fail,
Whilst fiundir.g armies clinch ihe grand defign J
That taxes are no burthens— to the rich ;
alone to labour drive the poo* ;
The lazy rogues would ne'the. pi nigh, nor ditcij
Unlels to keep the per iff from the door.
I'll fwear—vour honours are not like the boy,
Who kill'd bis goose, which golden eggs did lay »
Tour gooje you've no intention to deftro> ;
Content to fquetze out half a dozen a day.
I'll swear—in treaties you ne'er had a thought
To give up gratis all right of pre-emption :
Or that you had an agent on the spot,
To purcbafe for yourjetves, I will not mention.
I'll f z y that you're well read, and well export/!*
Much better than Vattell ! —the law ot na,
tions :
That no new faflgled doctrines have von found
To fritter states away to Corporations.
I'll fivcar they owe rheir charters to your gravtj
And if beyond' their proper bounds you catch 'em,
I he means to bring them back you will not want,
But inltant, with a quo-ivarranto match 'em.
These things, and many more —vou'll not difownj
Prove I can flatter in aproper way.
Supoofe me now * speculator grown,
Hear what to little Alt-'.' I could lav.
« The piaflice of both branches of the Ug,fu
ture, to refer every fubjeil to the head of a depart
ment before they all on it themselves.
f Formerly maftrr general of the ordinance, anrt
famous for bis fortifications for the defence of Eng
and apcfinfl ihuafiont*
I Author of the South sea and Mfffippi fcbemei
in F.npland and t ranee. f
(j It is contended by the Secretary of the Treafv ■
ry in his report on manufactures, chat ivhil/i the
<< genera! nee fare" >J the cbjcfl, the public move}
may I>' applied, and of coutfe the people taxed ,0
raft 'it, for every pffible objefl, < which in the etj
eretion of Corgrejs vn.J Redeemed conducive to the er., „•
il It is the prevailing opinion in Pbilaeh iphta .
that the office of Bari-Direß«, turned to the bejt
account, is-worth £.sooo per annum.
** Jn tbt report of the Set ret try of the . rra~
fury upon tr.hnufaflurcs, a: -well as m that u, a the
/übjefi of the public debt, he contenjs, Kis a a t y
thing for the country that they arc indebted, Jnc it
adds Jo much to the retticr.al •wealth.
+ + Their redeemc. bit quality of the debt.
II Said to be infilled on in the arguments of
Mr. Chief JuJiice Jr.y and Judge H'l fn in their
decifton, malting Jlatei amenable to the judgement: tf
a federal court IOfficial Account of the cannonade eJ
Port-au Prince, on the 12th of Aprii
iii a letter from Mefl'rs. Polvercl
an 1 San'.honax, Commiflioners of the
French Republic in the Windward If],
ands, to the C tizen Minider Genet,
at Philadelphia—dated Port-au Prince,
May Bth, 1793, 2d year of the French
Ivepubhc.
WE fee 1 how efTenti'alit is, that the
United States, infeded as they
are by emigrants from St. Domingo, fhoulc
learn the truth of events thro' the agent:
of the republic.
" From the month of Janury lad a new
Coalition formed between the chiefs of the
Royalids and those of the Rebels, excitec
for iome time pad by the English govern
merit, menaced the intereds of the metro
polls. Their activity was such, that i
our presence in the western province hac
been delayed another month, it would havt
been extremely difficult to remedy the evil
r^ n arm y obtained by the governor ir
chief Lafalle encamped at a league's dif
tance from Port-au-Prince, on the 9th o
April We were in the haibour with ;
74 g»n ship and two frigates. The gate:
were shut and admittance refufed to th<
armies of the republic; Fuinaces wen
ereaed in the forts to heat th.- balls thai
were to be fired on our vefTcls. Having
information of the declaration of war with
England we could not temporize. W<
summoned the municipality to receive tlit
army, the general and us. The rebels re.
luted.—Having used every lenient means
promised fafety and liberty to the friend:
of the republic, granted a delay of 2 a
hours upon the requed of some deputies
from the town—a delay which was mifufec
in endeavouring to corrupt the crew wt
gave orders to the ship and frigates to fin
on the forts. This was the 12th of Apri
at fix in the morning ; our fire was answer
ed by bombs and red hot fliot.
The conted laded fix hours and only
ceased when we succeeded in silencing the
fire from the town. On the 13th we re
ceived a deputation who asked another de
lay to give the good citizens time to afTem
'. w e granted it with pleasure, and w,
received at the fame time the women anc
children who were flying from the town,
" Next day the general was quietly re
ceived at the head of his army. We land
ed and ordered a number of rebels to bt
arretted. The principal chiefs, Borel I
their head, had fiown. The fire from the
town only killed us two men, the loss oi
the rebels amounts to 30 at mod ; but whal
is remarkable is, that our fl.ot feeme 1 tc
jingle out the mod turbulent among them ;
such as fiord's nephew, and 3 or 4 public
a.lafiins known thio'out the island.
" This day every thing is ptrfedly quiet
and we hope, that internal peace will con
tinue,notwithdanding the machinations anc
agitations of the enemies of France.
" Tell free Americans, and the friend,
of the republic, that the colony has at
length found severe executors of the laws
that we have put to flight the enemies oi
i- ranee—enemies so much the more dange
rous, as under the mask of national colours.
they made war upon their mother country
with its own weapons. Tell them, thai
thele pretended patriots, Borel (till al
their head, have jiift given a lad proof of
their attachment to the intereds of tin
mother country by flying to Jamaica, anc
throwing themfelres into the arms of the
•hnghfh."
Copy of a Utter, dated Brejl, JprU6, 1793
" I seize the opportunity of the frigare
Concord bound for the Cape, to give yo,
an idea of what is passing in France. YOl
have been a witness to the war in the Wed
Jncia colonies, & I afTure you we are muci:
in the fame situation here. The fame mon
iters that excited disturbances in the colo
nies, have a<3ed the fame part in France,
ihe pcafantry in several parts of the coun
try have followed the example of the Hi's
paniola negroes, though with less reafor
on their fide. Such an effect have the fa
liatical exhortations of the refra&ory prieds
had on them, that they firmly believe thev
v-ill indantly fly into heaven the moment
they are killed. In the neighborhood o r this
city theyare wholly reduced,but multitudes
of these ui,happy wretches mud perish be
fore the remainder are brought to their
senses. lam sorry to fay, we have 101 l a
con fit! era ble number of our brave patriots
The mifchief is still greater at Nantz, that
city being now besieged by more than
; their head emigrant leaders and refra£, < "v
prielts innumerable.
patriots of Nantz have made dre:Vl
lter t' le fe wretched people, but
It.II they are not deterred. All polls an:
Hopped. In addition to the general league
of al, nations againfl us, we have a civil
war at home infinitely more alarming than
the efforts of the molt powerful external
enemies. Beside all .his we are peered
with traitors in abundance ; notwithftand
mg a:l which we are convinced that liber
ty «',l yet triumph. Several of our mu
nicipal and d,drift bodies, have been put
to death by these miscreants, and numbers
of houses pillaged and burnt, pamculailv
in the departments of the southwest-
We have a bloody war upon our hands,
but 1 am confident we (hall rife fuperio,
to all enera.es. lam now at Breit, em.
barking troops for Martinique. We have
a fleet now ready to go on a cruise along
the coasts to prevent an invasion. The
people of Nantz have re-taken St. Lazare
and Croifee. In the Litter place were more
than 200 emigrants killed at one (ingle dif.
charge of our artillery. The patriots have
been surprized through want of vigilance
-n the adminiHrative bodies, or I may ra
ier fay,betrayed.Howeverthe brigands arc
now put to complete rout. The guillotine u
in conllant employ, and every day more o,
eis heads are consigned to it. The war
this summer will be a bloody one. At
present I have nothing more to fay. We
hare terrible work on our hands, but our
cause muftand will prevail. I w i<h you
more tranquility than is likely to be our
lot for feme time to come. We have made
tre aty of wi(h Hamburg) and Qr
burl f£ rece ' vedto g' v e up all the Ham.
g (bps that have been taken. Swe
en,Denmark, Turkey & the U. States ol
America are at peace with us ana these
IStriking -view of Chmeft Poverty.]
h!, f b l Cn l 0 of the
elt, and is, one of the molt fertile, belt cul
everitha U U n K ,eßl , n lt *««.«,how
ever to have been long ftat ; on
wh° visited it more than five hundred yean
no .e 5 "• cultivation, induftryanc
populoufnefs, alnjoft in the fame terms ir
long before his time> acquirfd
complement of, iches, which the nature ol
its law. and mil,tut,on. permits it to ac
quire— Ihe accounts of all traveller,, in
confident in ,na ny other refpefts, agree ir
f ° W , W L ge f ° f 1 " bor » and 11 the diffi
culty which a laoorer finds in bringing ur
" fam ''y ln China. If, by diggin/ t he
purchase a small q antity of rice in th<
evening, he is contented. The conditio,
of artificers, is if possible, still worse- In
stead of wait ,n gl ndoi ent , - n
houses, for the customer S , as in Europe
they are cont.nuaUy running about th<
ctree s with the too(s of n{
trades, offering their service, and, as i
of the > ? gg, " g Cm P'°y mtnt - The povert,
of the lower ra.k. of people in China fa
surpasses that of the moll beggaily nation
n Europe, In the neighborhood of Can
ma m , a "' V f hu J ndrcd . is commonly said
many thousand families have no habita
l'e fift," k ' but live const antly i n Ji t
The' f!br7 s up T h , e rivers and cana!s
1 he fubfirtence which they find there i
! bat are ea ger to fiffi up th.
naft.eft garbage thrown overboard from an,
Ot a dead dog or cat, for example, thouel
half putrid and (linking, is as welcomed
n/ m i 3 V fmp who,ef °me food to th,
people of other csuntries. Marriage is en
couraged ,n China, not by the profitable
ness of children, but by the liberty of de
ftroying them. In all great towns, fevera
are every night exposed in the ftr'eetl "
drowned like puppies in the water. Th<
faidtoT C t r f ,h '' S h ° rnd eve,
laid to be the avowed business by whicl
some people earn their subsistence.
A FEW COPIES OF THE
TRANSACTIONS
Of the Society inflUnted in the State 01
factures u
May be had at this Office.
[.rrice half a Collar."1
Jan. j. ->
—1 ! •
May 1793.
Wean.ja.y, 22. J 7— — r 1
J , "" *- Cloudy
,—— - 9 ' W ' 'Lvndcr
Jday ' 23 ' ! -<*■ - 04 ~~ u ,y
r— .j°..j 7 „ ~. z,\ Fttir /.
>' Ho 30. 3 J5 V _ N _ £ — —
; j — 3 °' 3 75 e. j «/„.
2 5- 6 30. 3T^~
: ; 2 3°. 3 70 3 S.E. Cloudy.
-J. y , 26 . 6 JO . t -~ _ -__i_
27 ■ ° 30. I 6S „ W. OwTT
J 2 9' 9 5 S 4 1 do. Fair.
I H™£*Y tme V fState > 10 «*"'•
ornl the tranflaf ° f
■nider my hand and fe .1 ~t off °"'1 "
i.y Of M.y Th j7rir.il? 1 '
LIBERTY JtiL.'aj.lTV
SspasS
sssgiar
Ivcpublic, 111 vvliat soever 1' e '
neet with then,, ak aa he ? a >
hem prisoners with their ft- «°ndua
nher matter, of which a K rm: ' and
-m; provided, by be
ent Letters of Marque !a fe r ?"
he Bureau des Clalles at tlf
.vhich he lhall fail 'and'to )l ', Uce , f ' onl
«. *■<"> t [ iSVSifs;
lie names, surnames ™» „i ' , Wlttl
? oi
ie tunes, ot whatever may have haDoen
-d during his voyage Happen
»urS n ;ir,s;'^" r "" kr
Ihele presents not to be in force bin
Inl faith whereof the provifionary exe
-01 »l»
Given at Paris the dav of
thousand seven hundred and ° H<
and year of the French republic.
(Signed,)
B M O N G E.
*7 ™ e "■Unifier if marine,
(Signed,)
(Seal.) C ° TTR «.
Except this, no form is valid..
Books & Stationary.
ROBERT CAMPBELL,
54 W C ,r StreCt ' S ° Uth ' fccol,a d 0« be
low the corner ot Chefnut-ftrcet,
Rct , IMPORTED,
By the late arrivals from Britain and
r , Ireland,
The ancent & modern universal history, 60 vols
Guthnes history of the World, ,3 vols.
Biographical Dirtionary, I 2 vols elegantly ,ilt
Anacharfis'. Travels in ancient '/I
Gibbons'* Roman Hiflory, I 2 vols. gilt.
Hume & Smoflet*. Hirtory of England vols
Robeitfon s h.ftory of Charles the V. 4 vols.
D, r . I:, ft°ry of America, 3 vols.
rope and* a" of Eu
rope and America, 2 vols;
New Annual Reg,Ber, I 2 vol,.
Nonexecutive Power, 2 vcls.
Ruffel s h.ftory of ancient Europe, 2 vols.
Hilrory Ot modem Eutooe, c vols
Voung's travels in F,■, RCe , a vols. S
Fielding s Woiks, 12 vr| s .
Pneflley's Leflures on History, 2 vols:
Same book in 1 vol.
"f d e ?cri p " i „ ft „°. r,Cal ChaUi Ro,,e ' S W!lh book
King of Prufiia's Works, ,3 vol..
" f mi ° foph r> 2 vol '- 4to ele
p... I*.™.® boc ' i 'n 2 vols. Bvo. '
'tilt,. Th " tie ' 2 5v015. ccarfe or « fl e
Shakcfptsre', Works, In r or 7 ?o!s.
M ,1"' C ? a ' Hcn < **">s. hound in one.-
DoJdriT* E l s cl '- f^";t -3' Hiflo.v, 6 v„l,.
L H r t , S / sm,l >' Enpofitor, 6 vols.
La.dhet 5 Works, ~ vo | s .
hitfield's Works, 7 vols.
f'"»P of Landaff's Theological Trafli, 6 vo Ft
Lavater on Phvfiognomy, abridged.
°"" s 5 £ nnals 31 Agriculture, iS vols.
Jourin France.
N.t.r,,„ ia ofßirds> co|offd
«s,:-"Sr."',
, .. QO * o". 3 volt.
™nes wiff a " d E " g,i ' l '
Anderfon on Commerce 6 vols.
Wood'! £ b,iogm " u of ' hc Llw > 11 *° l! - a vo.
Vood 4 Conveyancing, 3 vols, folio.
Will" Same book 4 firft vols. 0,0.
W.11.,m .d, f «tt ofthtE nt ,;aL.*. 2 vol.,
Co m ,n - d J(jc(tol thc U : )6v01 ,.- VOI1 >
C , 5 Re P o »s, 4 vols.
-allccld s Reporrs, 3 vols.
Henry Blackftone's do.
Win. Blackfton's do. 2 vols.
Burrow's do. j vols.
Ambler's do.
Cowper's do.
Brown's do. 2 vols.
Douglas's do. V r » .>
DdlJjs's do. X 77 S 2 vo ' s •
Wilfon-sdo. 3 vols n d °" 7,015 "
Grange's do. 2 vols! Co" 5 ""'" / d °' 3 V<>lt
L'l )'s Entries, 2 vols. C °"" '
Coke on Littleton.
Morgan's ElTavs, 2 vols.
VattJ! on the Ld» 0/ Nations.
Woodefon's LeOu.es, , vols.
Harnlon's Chancery, 2 vols.
Hmde's do.
Powell on p„wers.
Powell on Contrails.
Efpinaife on Nifp Prius.
Sullivan's Lc£iutes.
t ~' E < :;^. O6UCS tconauu.
Motherby's medical Ditfionarv,
Medical >6 vols, by Dunean.
•^assrrx"*
Pw/ch" th; -' e " 3hd Causes " f 3 vols.
P»tt s Chirurgical Works, 3 vols. 3
Ulburn s midwifery.
Tranfaflionj of a new medical society.
W*Z??rZ he dif " f " 2 vols,
"allu s Sydenham, 2 vols.
volf. W ' Ct n>k Con,maua,ifs °" Boerh.ve, ,8
S; allanranics dissertations, 2 vols.
Hunter on the Venereal disease.
Hunter on the diseases of the teeth.
Hunter on the animal crconomy.
Writing paper cf all kinds.
Dutch quills of the very best qualitv, *c. &c.
«... supply country IW ■-!< ~ ptrs on the
lowest terms, with r milv, potk-t and com
mo- fpel.ing book ; , i'..!,mcnis, prime";
E lft .IT Par,er ' V r ,i 'P ,n i do - fl'yi"* cards!
E American ink p,u lls^onnrl
P ,-eri, y () ung mans o,m F a,.i., n , Dilwortl.'i
Arithmetic, Watt's pfa'ms a,,dh.,nn S , Weliey'.'
hjmns, ciflionanes histories fall kinds Sic.
TO BE RENTED,
And pofl'e/lion given in July „ e xt.
A Merchant MILL
AtfCR StfaW;
i^SßSßuss?
a t theh YT "" »'" J plentiful water,
the held,.) a navigable creek, cl: c .. Miffii.i j, n
»"" h «« t,,^.%.t,,l 1 f..,, t(i ,„s
'phia wi h. ill any trouble to the nvlier, and ad
ding a H,urill„n g village that always Words a
andVn'.h ''h ' " " f thc merchant mill
abundance «f curtom to the c untry an
- mil , Those a dva.;.,,es render these UIJ
» a ilrJ | S C ° U "• ' a; ' d t,; " fi'u.tioo.
' '. < *° re " <-qual to an, in the liate. Th.
"n-rhan, mill is three high wiih two pair
fann U rh ."T' d " Ub , if 3 fcr « nc «"J
lann that cleans wheat into b.-rh h jppers two
0 ting chests, and a machine for hoilling that goes
<upeT r ' P Thi t m " l
; r at ,S much as in
and r T ' • Cr ' r " i 'Pf' s, Rt ' bert
m " C , h ' ,ntS Philadelphia, or the fub
icribers near the premises.
ELIZABETH THORNE,
IM-ir a PETER CAVERLY.
Milford, Kent County, State of Delaware
" 3) - '' ''93- 2a wtf
TO THE PUBLIC.
W HE ,R,EAS an attachmentat the foit of Sam
uel Imlay and Nathaniel Imlay, executors
Of the testament and last will 0 f Peter Imlay, de-
I ! has '*["'<l eut of'he Supreme Cour of
land,"of V , € V ' te ,of New-Jetfey, against the
Und of Garret Voorh.fi,, late of the count vof
M T f aroreraid, returnable to'the
U Tuesday in September, reventeen hundred
and ninety, two —Notice is hereby given to , he
raid Garret Voorheis, that unless he appearand
file fpecal bail to the said ,ai..n, judgment
will be entered agamft him, by default, and the
■ ands Co attached (old for the fatisfaOioi, offuch
Of his creditors as (hall appear to he juiily entitled
to any demand thereon, and (hall o.- .ly f Dr that
purpsfe, according to the form of the lUtute in
luch caic made and provided.
By order of the Court,
April 17. iaw. iy HOWELL, Clk.
PRINTED BY
CHILDS and swaine.
at TfiS Ik OFF ICE ho. 2t)Q r h ICH-bTR
WEAR FIFTH-STRfIT,
'HIIADEif.-jy j,