" iA
// w/ a7i SG tu
Jl'** /&'**S*"f9* u *->\— 701—]
©#z#o ojf®
L-
/
/ Aft* St,
a
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENA'O, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS PHU ADFLPHIA
[No. 74, of Vol. ll.]
From the (London) GENTLEMAN'S MAGAZINE,
for August; 1790.
Mr. Urban,
T TPON the recent election of a Parliament, yoi
may, perlia|)s, deem it ufeful information t<
lay before the public in general, and the new fe
liators in particular, the following
STATE OF THE ENGLISH NATION.
Population of Great Britain,
viz. England and Wales, 8,000,000 7
Scotland, 1,500,000 jf'Soo.oot
Number of the House of Commons,
Number of persons to each member of
parliament; or, in other wprds,each
member ofparliament represents
Number of aiftive citizens, or fighting
men between 16 and 60 years of
age, one-fourth of the whole,
Number of active citizens to each mem
ber of parliament,
England and Wales contain square
miles, according to the Statiilical
Tables, 54,1 ii
Number of persons to each square mile 147*
Scotland contains square miles, 25,600'
Number of persons to each fq. mile, 58
Great Britain contains fq. miles, 79,712
or fq. acres, 51,015,W
Number of persons to each fq. mile,
or 5 2-5 acres per head
The nett produce of the taxes on the
average of three years, from the
Jth April. 1787, to the sth April,
1 79°> £• 15,846,000
Add 8 pr. cent, for charges
ofcollecftion 1,26.7,680
The gross revenue of Great-Britain,
beside tythes parifli and county- £. 1. d
rates, &c. &c. 17,113,580 o o
So that each individual pays to
ilie Sjate, on an average, out
of his income, or the produce
of his labor,
But, if paid by the atfive citi
zens, it is a head by the year,
The capital of the national debt,
exclufiveof annuities for lives
and years, is about, 240,000,000
Upon the notion that the land
is ultimately charged to pay
the national debt, every square
mile is mortgaged for
or every square acre is mort
gaged for
The interest of the funded debt
including the annuities ant
charges of, management, is
Towards this, every")
square mile ! ! 116 3 ax
or every square acre contr, ' J . j 056
or every individual j per ann. '[_ o 19 6
Suppose the average rent of lands to be ten
Ihillings an acre, and that they now fell for about
30 years purcliafe, every acre is mortgaged for
iilmoft one-third of its intrinsic value, and pays
more than that proportion of its annual rent to
the interest of the national debt.
I have not made these calculations to create
dilcontents or despondency; for I believe that
the lame fort of enquiries, with regard to other
Kingdoms, would shew that, notwithflandingour
burdens appear heavy, we are not in a worse con
dnion than our neighbours. By this view of our
affairs, I mean only to llimulate our Minilters and
Senators to pursue the wisest measures for
strengthening this country, by thrift in the pub
lic treasure, by care of the public's trade, and by
all the other honest and ufeful arts of peace.
It is not extent of territory that makes a coun
try powerful, but numbers of men well employ
ed, convenient ports, a good navy, and a foil pro
d.ucing all forts of commodities. The material;
for all these we have; and, to improve them tc
the greatest advantage, we only want the com
plemer.t of men whom otir land can maintain ant
nourish, with as much trade as our national (toil
and pur knowledge of sea affairs is capable o:
embracing.
A trade 10 extended will naturally produce :
powerful naval strength ;E\vhllea large and wel
directed traffic, by its balance in our favor, wil
furnifh such ifores and wealth as will enable u
to bear our present load of debt until the plat
for the 1 education cf it fhnll have taken good root
and then the progress of that plan will procee<
more rapidly than can tafily be conccived b-
Wednesday, January 12, 1791*
THE Etnperor of Germany wore, during his
coronation, on the oth of this month, at
Frankfort, the robes'jof Charleifs'agnc j bnt not
until they had been conliderably taken in and
curtailed, to fit a fucceflor in every refped: more
diminutive than this gigantic potentate. As a
proof that even the influence of an enlightened
age could not extinguish the pious credulity of
the Germans, care was taken to exhibit, at this
solemn celebration, the liable where JefusChrift
was born ; the chains which were worn in capti
vity by St. Paul, and Sr. John ; the cloth which
covered the table during the Saviour's last sup
per ; a tooth of John the Evangelist ; and a lit
tle,box of earth indelibly discoloured by the
blood of Stephen.
Lord George Gordon was committed to New.
gate 011 the 13th December, 1787, for five years,
he has of course more than two yet before hiin.
He is obflinate in wearing a long beard till the
term of his confinement is expired ; then he
means to come forth with beams new fljorn like
the fun from behind a heavy cloud. Strange to
tell, the Alcoran oflate has been his principal
(ludy, iu which he pretends to have found the
complete!! system of human morality ever breach
ed to the world.
An Italian Jew in this city, who is remarkable
for nothing but a moderate share oflow cunning
has within the present year cleared upwards of
fifty thousand pounds by hi* speculations 011 the
war—he always said, by gad dare can be no var.
Lunardi, who has been reported dead, and
whose epitaph was even written, and publiflied
in the newspapers, is once more risen fpoin the
dead, and In perfect health. On the 31ft of Ju
ly lalt, he made a very fuccbfsful afcention with
a balloon at Palermo, in Sicily, in presence of
many thousands, who beheld him with admirati
on, among whom was Prince Caraminica, and all
the principal nobility : He was in the atrial re
gions one hour and three quarters, one hour and
a quarter of which he was hovering over thefea;
his liigheft elevation was four miles ; and de
fended 26 miles from Palermo fafe and found
558
x 7,025
2,375,000
4,256*
IT 9i
i 16 o$
7 4 U
o o
-Several of the French writers of approved me
rit, have employedjthe firit months of their liber
ty, in publishing works in which all religion is
represented as a farce, and the holy scriptures
are ridiculed in a manner vhich even Voltaire
has not exceeded. '
3,010 16 9^
4 12 4i
9,260,000 o o
r
The emperor and the imperial family took
their departure from this place yesterday, at
half an hour after seven. At the moment of
theirfetting off, the'3oocannons belonging to the
citadel and ramparts began firing, and were an
swered by the whole artillery of the camp of
Bergen : to this imperial salute were joined the
acclamations of an immensity of people, who
crouded every street through which their maje
sties palled, and who exprefled all manner of
good wiflies that the hearts of a loyal and ad
miring people could didtate. Their majesties
went diretftely for Vienna, not taking- Prague in
.their way, as was supposed they would. The
king of Naples is detained here for a fliort time,
by a flight indisposition. Tlie Helfian troopsquit
their encampment at Bergen.this day.
PARIS, Odh 25.
On t rid ay, as we announced by our Jafl: let
ter, all the ministers [except monf. de Montmo
rin] lent ajoint letter to the king, requesting his
majesty's permission to resign their several em
ployments: to which his majesty himfelf wrote
the following answer.
1 have a lively feeling of the evidence you give
me of your sentiments : nobody is better acquainted
than myfelj, upon what a /vial/foundation is conceived
the uneasiness and difgujl on your account. 1 have
always Jeen yon friends to the people, to order, to jnf
l ice and to the laws. 1 will take your letter into par
ticular conjideration, and will make each of you ac
quainted with my intentions ; and I expeH, from your
zeal for the public goad, and your attachment to vie,
that until then you will not quit your funllions.
(Signed) LOUIS."
The democratics, already deferred in their mo
tion in the aflembly for the removal of the mini
fters,are not quite fatisfied with this second ■vic'to
ry gained over them by the firmnefs of the King"
thofewho have not been used to contemplate the
powers of compound interest. M. W.
LONDON, Otft. 14
FRANKFORT, Odl. 17,
[Whole No. 178.]
B elides a house tax, so be paid by the tenant
Tetfet,! 8 lh ° u ß l ' ll,e P^onionis
yet fettled, it is decreed, that there lhall be paid
for a single man-servant, three livres, forafe
cond, fix livres, and twelve livres each for all
above that number ; and that half these sums
be P aid for female servants. Small as these
taxes may appear, it is much feared that many
servants will be discharged. Mod families are
already obliged to observe the moll ftricfl econo
my, and will be ill able to bear the various taxes
liberty conflderacion > as the price of
It is likewise decreed, that for every faddlc
horse and mule there |fliall be paid three Jiv.es
and for every coach or chaise-horse and mule'
twelve Jivres a year. A democratic member pro-
Po'ed, that this tax fliould extend to asses—but
the party thought themselves too much inter
elted.
We have now in Paris a regular regiment of
robbers, under the command of a chie£ and of
ficers of different ranks. Six of them were ta
ken a few evenings ago—ln the pocket of one
of them was found a regular set of inftrudlions
for the operations of the nexttwenty-four hours.
This regiment appears chiefly composed of fer
vnnts out of place, who, having a proper know
ledge of the different houses they have lived in,
and perhaps great connexions with servants ftll{
in places, may become a very dangerous body,
especially at a time when there is no police what
ever.
HUDSON, Dec. 30,
The following statements of the number ofin
habitants in the nothern part of this state, ?t~the.
several periods therein mentioned, are accurate
and authentic.
[Note —The counties of Albany, Montgomery
Wafliington, Columbia, Clinton, and Ontario
were, in 1771, comprehended in the county of
Albany, and at present conipofe two of tlie'great
diftritfts of thisftate, caljed the eastern and wes
tern diftricls.]
In 1771, a census of the inhabitants in the pro
vince of New-York was taken, by order of the
then Governor, Lord Dunmore.
Albany county contained
In r 786, a census was taken by
order of the legiflatui e.
Albany county contained 72,360}
Montgomery 15,057 i
Wafliington 4,456 J
Increase in 15 years
Within (which time, these dif
tridts (forming an extensive
frontier) fuffered from frequent
and aluioft constant inviafions of
the enemy, during a 7 years war,
at one time, by two formidable ar
mies, one under St. Ledger, against
Fort Schuyler, and the other, of
10,000 men under Burgoyne, who
actually penetrated so far as Still-
water
The present ceufus makes
Albany county 75,180")
Montgomery 28,848 f
Washington 14,025 !
Columbia 27,552 r
Clinton 12,22 |
Ontario 3,000J
Increase in four years
BOSTON, Jan. 6
ExtraH of a letter from a gentleman at Mujkinguw,
to his friend in this town, dated Marietta, Nov.i 4.
" Our settlement here is moderately increa
sing, as usual : our crops of corn are very fine : 1
think we (hall want for provifionno more iit this
place.
" As you have made a visit to this country, I
(hall take the liberty to mention some of our ex
traordinary produdions ; othervvife I should roc
dare, lelt they should be doubted. Mr. Mathcw
fon, of Belle-Prie, has raised this year, between
two and three hundred bufliels of corn ; and af
ter his ground was cleared and fenced, he com
puted ail his other labour at three shillings per
day, and his corn did not cofl him two pence half '
penny per bushel.
" 1 measured a Radish in one of the garrison
gardens, the lafl fuinmer—lt was twenty inches
in circumference, and twelve inches out of the
ground. There are foine extraordinary inftari
42,706
,9 r >? 7 3
,49>i*7
M 9.127
57,954«es in the growth of fruit trees, pumkins, and
the like—l forget the particulars —but have men
tioned enough—you know t lie country.
Since you lefc this place, Mr. E. Backus, my
felf, and another person for our guide, have
made a tour up the Mulkingum, about ico miles,
to White-Woman's Creek. We found a molt
beautiful country on the river ; we did not go
far back, to fee what it was there.
" There winters in this place, a number of
French gentlemen, who intend to make settle
ments in the Scioto purchase ; they have iett
France in conl'equence of the revolution in that
country. They have brought their national de
putes with them, and cannot agree to,fettle to
gether : I think, however, they will loon forget
them, and all become Republicans. —About joo
have arrived—there are Jeveral thousands expect
ed out next season."
NEW-YORK, Jan. 17
« When thou dost an alms, let not thy left lnr.d know what
thy right hand doth." ,7 c J ut
Dr. Rodgen is highly obliged to the unknown
friend, from whom he received a polite letter of
the 4th inft. covering a hundred dollar bank note,
for the ufeofthe poor ; and whilehe takes this
method of informing him that it came fate to
hand, he allures him it ihall be faithfully appro
priated to the benevolent purposes of the gener
ous Donor.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
THURSDAY, Jan. 6.
In committee oj the whole, on the bill repealing after
the lafl day of next the ait laying duties on
diflilled ffir its, ire. and impoftng others tn their
jlead.
Mr. Boudinot in the chair,
(Continuedfrom our /act.)
MR. LIVERMORE was in favor of the bill.
He said he considered it as an equal and
just mode of taxation—and as fiich will be agree
able to the people—they will consider it as drink
ing down the national debt. The plan is agree
able to the expectations and fentiiner.ts of the
people: So far, said he, as my obserVations have
extended, I have not found a single individual
who has objected to it.
He then obviated the objections to the bill,
which he conceived arose principally from the
word Excise. He thought the term very impro
perly applied, on the present occasion, for the
duty cannot be said to be an Excise.
He then gave a defci iption of what had been
considered in times pall as an excise, which to be
sure, said he, is a very unequal tax, inasmuch as
it fell on the poor only, who were obliged to pur
chase in small quantities—while the rich, by
storing their cellars, escaped the duty—but this
bill provides that the duty lhall fall equally on
the rich and poor—lt is to be paid, or secured,
by the importer of foreign fpirirs, and at the
Kill-head on domeltic spirits—This will equalize
the burthen, atid leave no room for complaint.
He then adverted to diredl taxation—and by a
variety of particulars (hewed, that it was utterly
impollible to lay a direcft tax that would not prove
unjust, unequal, and grievously oppreflive.
Mr. Bloodwortli spoke againit the bill : He
dilated largely on the present uneafmefs which
prevailed in theftate of North Carolina : His ex
perience, he said, was diredtly contrary to that
efthe gentlemen from New-Hamfhire, the people
to the southward universally condemn an Excise.
Mr. Sedgwick said he was unhappy to hear that
discontents prevailed in any part of the United
States. He could afl'ure gentlemen that he did
not contemplate the execution of the laws by mi
litary force. He was sure that in no part of the
legislature were entertained designs inimical to
the public liberty. In framing the present bill,
great attention had been paid to prevent its being
attended with those qualities which, in other
countries, rendered taxation by excise justly ob
noxious to popular vefentment. He relied on the
good sense and well-informed understandings of
the people in every part of America, foi the exe
cution of such systems for the support of public
credit, and for the diminution of the national
debt, as lhould be devised by the wisdom of their
representatives. For the fame purposes, he said,
lie confided in the patriotism of the gentlemen
who came from those diftri&s of country where
uneasiness was said to exist He believed there
■\yas indeed a confiderablc deficiency to be pro
vided for, for the fppport of government and of
the public prpdit. This belief was founded in
his confidence ill the information received from
the Secretary of the Trcafury. But if there was
110 deficiency, his disposition to support the bill
would be the fame ; for he had never believed
that a public debt was a public benefit. Is it not
then the duty of thole to whom the people have
delegated the important trull of guarding their
prosperity, in a season of profound peace, to li
berate them from the burden and preilure of
debt ?—Therefore the only question to be deter-
mined is, whether the proposed duties are a pro
per fnurce from whence we might derive the ne
ceflary aids to provide for the payment of thein
tereft, or the diminution of the principal of our
debt? He believed, he said, that of all the fub
jeifts of revenue which were within the power of
Congress, none was so proper as the duty 011 ar
dent spirits, contemplated by the bill. 111 this
sentiment, lie believed, he concurrcd with that
of the great body of the people. The leveral
species of taxation, said he, may be divided into
the four impost—a tax 011 inter
nal negotiations—direift taxes —and that now un
der confederation, excise. The impost duties had
been extended as far as was, in the opinion of
any gentleman, [dictated by found policy. The
tax 011 internal negociations, which could not be
carried to any considerable extent without the
intervention of {lamps, was fubjecft to the objec
tion brought against the present bill, and that in
a degree incomparably beyond it, of being op
posed by public opinion. Diretfl taxes, said he,
are still more objectionable on that account, at
least in every part of the country to which his
knowledge extended. They are of all taxes the
most unequal, and in this country would be found
the inoft oppreflive. They are unequal, because
with whatever exacftnefs they might be appor
tioned upon capital or income, the only two
principles on which an apportionment can be
made ; they may and will be very unequal as to
the burden imposed; because amah's ability to
pay taxes is not in proportion either to his capi
tal property or to his to that part of
his income which is over and above his necessary
expences, according to the usual manner of liv
ing, for persons of his degree in the community.
They will be oppreilive in this country, because
in many of the states the plentiful circulation of
money, and the facility of obtaining it, does not
extend to the interior parts, nor could it be ob-
tained by many of our citizens without a great
facrifice of property. It may be added, that from
the extent of our fettlemems compared with the
number of our citizens, theexpenceof collection
would be immense. «
In regard to excises, Mr. Sedgwick faicl that
in all insensible modes of taxation, it fliould be
observed, that a much greater Aim would be ob
tained fioin an individual than by any mode of
dire<fl inipofition : this, without entering into a
difcuflion of the reasons on which it was found
ed, is demonstrated by faift. He instanced the
porters of London, from whom, in the single ar
ticle of beer, was drawn ten times as much as
could be procured by the mod rigorous mode of
direift exaiftion. With regard to the proposed
duties, though the well-meant cenfideration of
morality which had been urged by feme gentle
men weighed but little with him, because he
doubted whether it was well founded ; yet, if
the confuniption fliould be leflened, he did not
believe it would be attended with any sensible
inconvenience. The? consumption at present
amounts to ail enormous qnautity: froin these
cormderations, said he, as the measure is ditftated
by found policy, he hoped and believed it would
be supported by a good degree of unanimity.
Mr. Smith, (S. C.) adverted to the funding sys
tem, to ihew, that the faith of the United States
was pledged to raise a fufficient revenue to dis
charge the debt, which by that system, they have
engaged to pay. The Secretary's Abatements point
out a deficiency : Those statements he had no
dopbt were as accurate as the nature of things
would admit. Gentlemen who find fault with
the proposed plan, do not offer a fnbftitute. He
then entered into a defence of the bill, and shew
ed in what refpetfts it differed from the English
plan of an Excise.
He said the present bill was not so exceptiona
ble on account of its violating private property,
as the Colle&ion Law.
He instanced, in a particular clause of that law,
the power of entering houses by warrant from a
Justice of the peace—Trial by Jury is secured
by thisbill—and other provisions friendly to per
sonal rights are added.
Direct taxes, said he, are as much objected to
by North Carolina as the Excise—and tho diredi
taxes are mentioned, no plan is offered.
He then enlarged on the importance of punc
tuality in paying the interell of the public debt,
and of having a surplus revenue in the treasury.
He doubted not the gentlemen in favor of the bil l
were as patriotic as those who are averse to it :—
Difference in opinion is to be expend—but he
had a better opinion of the good sense of the
community, than to suppose they would be led
away by a found—They will fee and judge for
themfelves —and when they fee that the law is
free from all those obnoxious qualities which have
been fuggelted, they will submit to it without
702
complaint, efpeclally when :hey realize that the
tax is equal—and tlie only effective relource with
in the present command of the government—the
oeneral government is authoriied to la) excises :
North Carolina knew tiiis when (he adopted the
Constitution. The opposition he suspected was
agaitift the object to which the money is to be
appropriated.
Mr. Giles laid, the sentiments of the people of
the louthern states, have been so differen:ly re
presented, from what lie conceived to betheltate
of fadls, that in justice to them lie conceived him--
felf bound to take some notice of the obfervatious
which had fallen from gentlemen.
He then Hated certain principles on which tax
ation should be formed—faxes lhould be neces
sary and railed 011 a plan confident with ih»
principles ol liberty.
He adverted to the necelfity, which he observ
ed was abundantly apparent, from the report of
the Secretary of the Trealury—but he did not
confine his opinion to what had fallen from him.
He instanced other reasons which would occasion
a neceifity for replenilbing the public ti eafury.
The expediency of the present mode he argued
from the Import's being carried to the utmoll—
from the approbation of this mode by a majority
of the people —and tho uneafinefies might prevail
infonie of the southern Hates, he considered them
as originating altogether from the want of due in
formation Pollefled of that information he could
pledge himfelf to the committee, that they would
cheerfullv acquiesce in whatever the legislature
should decide to be for the general interest.
With refpe<t to the bill's being agreeable to
the principles of"liberty and i-epublicanifm, this
would more properly come into view when that
part of the bill which designates the mode of
collection, comes under consideration. At pre
sent he would only fay, that he had observed
with pleasure, that there appeared to be a uni
versal disposition in the members of the lioufe,
to manifeft the moll scrupulous attention ill all
their deliberations, to the liberties of the people.
On the whole lie had no doubt that 011 mature
reflexion the peoplewoukl acquiesce in thepi efent
plan, when the honor, security and peacc of the
United States appeared to be efl'entially connect
ed with a further provision for the public exi
gencies.
Mr. Stone particularly alluded to the statement
offered by Mr. Jackson— by which it appeared
tha£ only the sum of 146,000 dollars were want
ed—whereas the Secretary's report calls tor the
enormous l'um of 800,000. He called on gentlt
men to fliew the errors of the statement offered
by the gentleman—lt had not been done.
He then adverted to the number of people that
would probably be wanted in order to make the
duty productive : He believed they would be so
numerous at to be fufficient to conllitute an army.
Mr. Fitzlimons read an estimate of the actual
and probable produce of the present Import and
Tonnage, for the current year—by which it ap
pears there wlil be a deficiency of upwards of
300000 dollars—but taking into confederation
certain contingencies, which ihould they take
place, will diminish the amount of the present
duties, it appeared that the deficiency would
be much larger than the sum mentioned—but
even in cafe of a surplus being produced by this
bill, there are objects to which it can be applied,
highly beneficial to the United States : He in
stanced finking the deferred dock,and the three
per cents : The redudii&n of the public debt is
an object which ought never to be loft fight of.
Adjourned.
MONDAY,
.sundry petitions were read and referred.
In committee of the whole on the bill, direft
inp the mode in which the evidences of thedebr
of the United States, which are, or may be de
stroyed, shall be renewed.
Mr. Bcndinot in the chair.
The committee went through the dTfcuffion of
the bill ; they made sundry amendments, which
were reported to the houle.
It was then moved that the bill be engrofleil
for a third reading.—This was objected to by
several members, and a motion for itsrecommit
nient to a select committee, made by Mr. Seney,
after some debate, was carried—and the follow
ing gentlemen were appointed the committee,
Mefl'rs. Sedgwick, Williamfon, Lawrance, Car
roll, Clymer, Sturges and Sherman.
In committee of the whole on the bill, declar
ing what officer, in cafe of vacancy, [by death,
removal,or inability] in the office of l'refidenr,
and Vice-President, ffiall acft as President.
Mr. Boudinot 111 the chair.
The firft clause of the bill was read, which con
tains a blank to be filled up, designating theper
fon who (hall act as President. This Mr. Smith,
(S. C.) after some preliminary observations mov
ed should be filled with the Secretary of ft ate far
the time being.
Mr. Livermore moved to insert the President
of the Senate, pro tempore.
Mr. Ber.fon moved to insert the chief jnfbce
of the United States.
Jan. IoAn irregular debate en Hie J on these several
nominations,without a question's being taken on
either. Some of the members appeared dehrous
of coming to a decision ; a motion however, lor
the committee's riling and reporting progrels
was carried in the affiunative.
The committee on enrolled bills, reported the
bill, intitled an ast, to continue an atl, declat
ing the afient of Congress to certain laws ot the
Hates of Rhode-Illand, Maryland and Georgia,
lo far as it refpec r ts Rhode-llland and Georgia—
which they had examined and lound duly em oi
led. The speaker then signed the fame.
Mr. Williamfon bro't foward his motion lor
leave to bring in a bill to prevent the invalid
penlioners from alienating their pensions before
they became due. A committee was accoidmg y
appointed, confiding of Meflis. Wilhamloro,
Brown, and Griffin. _
Mr. Fitzfimons prefcnted a petition from tlie |
ilifpecftors of the port of Philadelphia—praying
for an addition to their compensation. Laid on
•he table. . .
Mr. Ames moved that a committee he appoint
ed to conlider whether any, and what further
provision, shall be made to the commiflioners ot
loans in the refpetftive states, to defray their ex
tra expences. , c
A mellage was received from the Preliaent ot
the United States, to inform the house that the
acftabove mentioned had received his approbati
on, and lignature. Adjourned.
T U*E S D A Y, Jan. 11
' A petition from sundry inhabitants of the state
of Pennsylvania was read, and referred to the
Secretary of theTreafury.
Mr. Bloodworth presented a memorial from
the merchants and others of the town of
■ville ; and another from the merchants of
Wilmington, refpecfting the judiciary fyltem ;
proposing certain alterations therein. Referred
to a committee of five, confiding of Meflis.—■ ,
Burke, Bloodworth, Giles and Brown.
Incommitteeof the whole on the bill, repeal
ing after thelaft day of next, the duties
heretofore laid on distilled spirits, and laying
others in their stead.
The 13th feftion, which provides for laying a
duty on spirits, distilled from materials, the pro
duce of the country was read.
This fe<ftion Mr. Jackson moved, should be
struck out ; a lengthy debate ensued, which
employed the residue of the day ; the question
on striking out being at length put, pafled in
the negative—33 to 1 7—the committee then rofc
and reported progress.
A mefl'age was received from the Senate, in
forming the House, that they have pafled a bill
entitled an adi for granting lands to the settlers
at post St. Vincennes ; read the firft time.
Adjourned.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
A Letter from Jofcph to his Friend J.minadab, on
. the Exemption of the Quakers from the Militia
Service, &c.
My dear Friend Am in a dab,
I HAVE to return thee my thanks for the Memorial thou haft sent
mc, and which our Society have caused to be prefentcd to the
Congrcfs ofthe,United States. 1 like it well, because it favoreth
much ol our carnal interest, and is expressive ot that subtle policy
which is known to guide our tender consciences. Surely we ought
to be exempted from the dangers, fatigues, and expences of the mi-
Htia-fervice, because we have, in general, been such tried friends
to the independence of this country, and our conduct hath been so
truly patriotic, as to merit every encouragement and diftinftion.
It gives me also great pleasure, friend Aminadab, to fee our
great men pay such attention to our Memorial, and spend whole
clays in debating thereon : Verily, the light will arile, and we
Iball be quite happy in fitting quietly under our own Vines and
Fig-Trees, in having outlives arid property protested, while others
willbe called out to the field of slaughter, and obliged to fight
with the savages, in defence of our lands and poflejfions. This will
be true Quakerism, and if not quite agreeable to the written w?rd,
yet altogether consonant to.the dictates of that Monitor within our
bosoms, which warneth us to take care of ourselves, and to avoid
all concern with ungodly quarrels and diffentions.
I know the carnal man objetleth to our peaceable Spirit, and
maintained the tjoftrine of war and felf-defence, so contrary to
our interest and personal fafety. Hence it is, that we are often
told, that being a part of thacommunity, and receiving the advan
tages of defence and protection, we are bound to bear our propor
tion ot the~public burdens ; and that we ought not to be indulged
with an exemption from these services, because a too great extension
»t our principles might endanger the very cxiftence of government.
Thusitfadly gricveth us to find, there is no living upon earth ]
without wars and fightings.
To mc, Aminadab, it fecmeth strange, that men (bould make
ufc of scripture arguments in defence of military tlUblifhments ;
for they tell us, that Wars have been, and will be, in all ages, to
the end of time ; that the great Mekhizedek met. Abraham, the father
of the faithful, when he returned from the llaughier of the Kings,
and blessed him, which he would not have done, had he been enga
ged in an unlawful aflion ; that the proleffion of a soldier, or mi
litia-man is no where forbidden, or condemned in scripture
When the Baptist was interrogated by the soldiers, as to their
conduct, he said unto them, " do violrnceto no man, neither ac
cufc any falfcly, and be content with your wages." In which re
ply, we do not find that in order to prepare themselves for the re
ception of the kingdom of God, it was required ol soldiers to r?-
linquifh their profeflion, but only that they should beware of the
vices, of which that prolcflion was accused. The precept which
follows, be contew with your wages," supposes them to con
tinuc in their fituatiot.
How great was the encomium pronounced by the favio'ur of
mankind on the Roman Centurion, or Captain, " 1 have not found
so great faith, no not inXfrael." The hrft Gentile Convert who
was received into the ChAftian Church, and to whom the Gospel
vasimpaited, by the immediate and especial direction of Heaven,
held the fame station.; and in the history of this tranfa&icn, we
discover not the fmallefl intimation, that Cornelius, upon becoming
a Christian, quitted' the service of the Roman Legion ; that Ins pro
feflion was objected to, or his continuance in it conndered, as in
any wife, inconliftent wvith his new character.
It is allealferted by these carnal reafouers, that fcj-dcf'ncc, ool.\
in individuals and society, is juftifUble. Thus when our life is
afTaulted, it becomes neceltary for our preservation, to kill the as
sailant. This is evident in a state of nature, unlefc it can be Ihewn
that we are bound to prefer the aggressor's life to our own ; that
is to fay, to love our enemy better than ourselves, which can nevci
be a debt of justice; nor any where appears to be a duty of chari
ty. This mode of reasoning is applied to nations, who are there
fore led to oppose the violence of each other.
Thus, friend Aminadab, have I suggested to thee, some ol the
objections to our received opinions, to the end that thou mayeft be
enabled to answer them, with the meekness of wisdom, and mew
the reafonablcnefs of exempting the Quakers from bearing arms,
because they live in an expe&ation ol a kingdom of peace, where
in; dwelleth righteousness. 1 will allure thee, good friend, that
these fubjefts have lately mightily agitated my fpints, so that one
day, being in a profound meditation thereon, I fell into a il.ep by |
the fire fide, fitting in my elbow-chair : During the Ihort time of
my repose, methought I saw before mine eyes a wide extended
plain, on which were gathered together an innumerable multitude
of people ; and in the middle of this plain, I beheld a huge moun
tain, on which a great number of these people were endeavoring
to ascend. While I considered theft tnings, behold a venerable
man flood by me, clothed in white raiment, whole affable, 3 S
able countenance encouraged me to enquire the meaning of the
fight I was then contemplating. He informed me, that the huge
mountain wascalled MOUNT-EXEMPTION, and that the per
sons ascending the fame, were the profejfors of various religion ° c ~
nominations. Obfervingto my good genius, that these sectaries
were so numerous as to cover the mountain, he said, that it could
i6t be wondered at, since by getting a place on the mountain,
:hey were exempted from the fatigues and dangers of war,to which
the poor folks beneath were exposed : He then gave me the follow
ig particulars, descriptive of those clcft favorites, viz.
Of the tribe of Quakers were exempted,
Of the tribe of Methodists were exempted,
Of the tribe of Menonifts were exempted,
Of the tribe of Moravians were exempted,
Of the tribe of Dunkards were exempted,
I then looked again, and behold ! the Methodists were harmo
niously chaunting their Hymns of triumph,for the advantages they
had received over the multitudes on the plain beneath, and their
song was, 0, be joyful! While the Menonifts andDunkards {kipped
like beaided Ram\ y and the Moravians like young (hcep, around
the mountain; but the Quakers, fearing that profane iinging
might hurt their tender consciences, teftified their approbation,
with inch a strange dissonance of founds, that the noise thereot
awaked n/e out of sleep, and lo ! it was a dream.
JOSEPH.
Elktonjthe "jth day of thcf rfl month, 1791
To the EDITOR of the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
Sir,
SINCE the arrival of Congress in this city, there has been a
constant and general complaint of the scarcity of hackney
coaches, and of the exhorbitant price demanded for their fare.
In London, the hackney-coaches (to prevent their beir.g too nu
merous) arc limited to 1000, and this number is always compleat.
The fare is also limited, to prevent imposition; four persons tak
ing a coach for one hour, or one mile, pay one Jkilling, or three
pence ftcrliiig each, and no more, »l<hough the proprietors pay a se
vere tax to government for their licences.
Perhaps a statement similar to the following, may induce some
citizen to make his own fortune, and benefit the
)üblic. Dollars.
" ' ' *5°
150
'.5°
00
<>o
A good hackney-coach may cost
A pair of horses,
Keeping per year,
Coachman,
Wear of Horses harness, &c.
The Coaches in this city earn at present from 5 to 10 dollars
per day : Take the smallest sum— 5 dollars per day, is 1825 pr.
annum. 10 Coaches would bring in, at 1825 each, 18250 drs.
per year. Deduct for stock, intereft,and whole ann. ex. 7420
Thus may be gained in one year, 10830 drs.
by any individual who may have the spirit, with the property or
credit, to procure 7 or 8000 dollars on interest, for one year.
N. B. From 15 to 30 Coaches, it is supposed, would find im
mediate employ. A TRAVELLER.
Philadelphia, Jan. 12.
A principal cause of the low state of Agriculture is the want of
capital to make improvements : Tne plan of the National Bank,
holds up the profpea of relief : Such a great capital thrown into
circulation, will diffufe new health to quicken the industry of the
country : Many millions of new property will be set in motion,
and a new celerity given to the old stock. The farmers may now
look forward to a more improved state, and of course to an higher
degree of prosperity : With the means, it is to be hoped,the spirit
of improvement will be diffuled.
The trade, manufactures, and husbandry of a country, will re
main far behind the mod prosperous state to which they may be
carried, until Banks and inland Canals are formed : They afford
a surprising aid : They seem to aflift industry, and to bear relation
to the vfhole society, as machines do to particular arts : Our im
proving country will soon be equal to any attempts of this nature.
The Hon. Jeremiah Wadsworth, Esq. is
re-elecfted member of the House of Representa
tives of the United States, for the State of Con
necticut, vice Pierpont Edwards, Esq. resigned.
The New-York Daily Advertiser of Monday,
mentions that 150 dollars were received by Dr.
Moore—l 50 by Dr. Livingston, and 50 by
Rev. Mr. Jessop, from persons unknown, for
the use of the poor.
The Representatives in Congress for the state
of North-Carolina are to be chosen the last
Tliurfday and Friday of this month.
The intereftilig view of the " Jlate of the En
glish nation" in the firft page of this paper, is
publilhed with a view of inducing some of our
ingenious readers, or correspondents. to furnifii
a statement of the a<ftnal situation of this coun
try ; it is prefunied that a tolerably accurate ac
count of the United States on a similar scale,
would exhibit a moil pleasing perfpeiftive of the
American republic.
703
700 Dollars.
Net am mint of duties on Goods, Wares and Mer
chandise imported into the United States from
'he lit day of August, to the 30th of Sept. 1790.
Dot's. CtK
2,980 76
52,697 3'o|
11,112 78
86,215 36
1,200 32
New ■ Hamp(hire,
Majfac'hufetts,
Comiefticut,
New-York,
New- Jersey,
Pennsylvania,
Delaware,
Maryland,
Virginia,
South-Carolina, -
Georgia,
415,159 171-
Net amount of duties on Goods, Wares and Mer
chandise imported ilito the United Stateifrom
the ill day of Ocflober, 1789,10 the 30th of
September, 1790. Doll. Cti.
New-Hamp/hire 14,550 19^
Matfachufetts, 320,430 9§i
Rhods-JJland, 17,67? 20* C
Conne£iicut, 64,336 20'
Neiu-York,
New-Jersey,
Penttfylvania,
Delaware,
Maryland,
Virginia,
North-Carolina,
South-Carolina,
40,000
40,000
Georgia,
10,000
5 , 000
5, 000
The following companion will fliew, that what
are called Charity Schools, are hostile to the in
terests of education and the poor.
100, COO
In the city of New-York, which contains about
30000 inhabitants, there are 3 Charity Schools :
In which, according to a ftatemerit published in.
the New-York Magazine for December 179 0 / °" s
hundred and eighty-fix children are inftru&ed in
reading, writing and arithmetic.
In the town of Boston, which contains about
18000 inhabitants, there is not one Charity School
—but in the Public Schools of that place, support
ed by a tax, near fifteen hundred children
are taught the above branches—and in one of
the Schools, Greek and Latin
In New-York there is probably one third more
children than in Boston : The number therefore
of those, who are unprovided for in the former,
is greatly disproportionate. Of the fifteen hun
dred who are educated in the public fchoolsin the
latter, more than a tlioufand would |be deprived
of all opportunity of acquiring learning without
this public provision, agreeable to the experience
of New-York, with those Charity-Schools.
This makes good the old faying, that " Chart
TY covereth many omijfions."
Learning ougjit to be free as air :—This can
only be effected bylaws, which ihall throw the
burthen of supporting schools on the whole com
munity, that the provision may be made lo am
ple, as to be within reach of the poorest member
offociety—furely it is in the power of the free
citizens of every capital in the United States, to
"devise ways and means for the education of their
children without depending on charity ; the
foregoing example proves that it is.
The legislature of the state of North-Carolina
finished their session at Fayetteville, on the 15th
ult. after having pafled fifty-feven laws.
PRICE CURRENT. PUBLIC SECURITIES.
FUNDED DEBT
6 pr. Cents 17/ pr. £ .
3 pr. Cents SJ6. —%/q.
Defered 6 pr. Cents 8/6.-3/9.
UNFUNDED DEBT
Final Scttl.and other Certificates 15/.
Indents 8/6. —8/9.
State debts —8/9.
AMERICAN CLOTHS.
SUPERFINE and ELASTICS,
CONGRESS BROWN,
LONDON SMOKE,
LEAD DRAB,
BLUE and OTHER fafliionable Colours,
Manufactured at Hartford, (State of Connecticut,) ju,l received;
and are now offered for Sale, at the
At which Store are also opening a large and general aflortment ol
CLOTHS,
Linens,
Cambrics,
Painted, sprigged, tambour
ed book, and jaconet Muflms,
Chintzes,
Cottons and Calicoes,
Silks,
And many other Articles, too numerous to insert in an Adver
tisement ; all of which are now felling by WholtJaU and Retail, on
folow terms, as to make them an object to the purchasers.
N. B. A few Barrels of MACKAREL, and Nova-Scotia
HERRINGS. Philadelphia, Jan. ia, 1791.
CHEAP STORE, No. 38,
North Third Street,
EUROPEAN and INDIA GOODS.
ELEGANT Vest Patterns—
adapted to the season, v
Silk, Cotton, and Worsted
Hose,
Corduroys,
Velveretts, and Royal Ribs,
Best Buck, Beaver, and While
Kidd Gloves,
A Variety of STUFFS
99,349 86
3.363 77
25,163 57
89,003 9
37,060 57.
7,01 r 7S|
446,646
4,291
472,756 35
9>9 I 4 arj
206,750 27
2r 4,341 ?r 3
M,340 15*
102,438 62
15,237, 64}
I>9°3>7°9
85 pr. cent.
43 J do
-43i do
75
43l do -TREASURY DEPARTMENT,")
December j;, 1790. J
111 obedience to the order of the House of Re
rRE sent ATI VF.S of the 9th Day of August last,
requiring tlie Secretary of the Treasury
to prepare and report, on this Day, such fur
ther Provision as may, in his opinion, be ne
ceflary for establishing the PUBLIC CREDIT
—the said Secretary further
Respectfully reports,
(continued from our last.)
THE fuppoit of industry is probably in ♦-Very cafe, of more
consequence towards corre6ling a wrong balance of trade,
than any pra&icable retrenchments in the expences of families or
individuals : and the stagnation of it would be likely to have
more effedfc in prolonging, than any such savings in ftiortening its
coutinuance. That stagnation is a natural consequence of an in
adequate medium, which, without the aid of bank circulation,
"would in the cases supposed, be severely felt.
It also defervcs notice, that as the circulation of a bank is al-
in a compound ratio to the fund upon which it depends,
and to the demand for ir, and as that fund is itfelf affe&ed by the
exportation of the metals, there is no danger of its being over
flocked , as in the cafe of paper iflued at the pleasure of the go
vernment ; or of its preventing the consequences of any unfavor
able balance from being fufficiently felt to produce the reforms
alluded to, as far as circumstances may require and admit.
Nothing can be more fallible than the comparisons which have
been made between different countries, to illustrate the truth of
the position under confederation. The comparative quantity of
gold and silver, in different countries, depends upon an infinite
variety of fa&s and combinations, all of which ought to be
known in order to judge whether the existence or non-existence
of paper currencies has any (hare in the relative proportions they
contain. The majs and value of the productions of thfe labour and
industry of each, compared with its wants ; thenaturcof its es
tablishments abroad : the kind of wars in which it is usually en
gaged : the relations it bears to the countries, which are the ori
ginal pofTeffors of those metals ; the* privileges it enjoys in their
trade; these and a number of other circumstances are all to be ta
ken into the account, and render the investigation too complex to
juftify any reliance on the vague and general surmises, which have
been hitherto hazarded on the point.
In the foregoing difcuflion, theobjeflion has been conftdered as
applying to the permanent expulsion and diminution of the metals.
Their temporary exportation, for particular purposes, has not
been contemplated. This, it mud be confeffed is facilitated by
banks, from the faculty they poftefs of fupplyirigtheir place. But
their utility is in nothing more conspicuous, than in these very
cases. They enable the government to pay its foreign debts, and
to anfwerany exigencies which the external concerns of the com
munity may have produced. They enable the merchant to sup
port his credit (on which the prosperity of trade depends) when
special circumstances prevent remittances iri other moc!~es. They
enable him also to profecutc enterprizes, which ultimately tend to
an augmentation of the fpecics of wealth in question. It is evi
dent, that gold and silver may often be employed in procuring
commodities abroad ; which, in a circuitous commerce, replace
the original fund, with considerable addition. But it is not to
be inferred from this facility given to temporary exportation,
that banks which are so si iendly to tradeand industry, are in their
general tendency, inimical to the encreafe of the precious metals.
These several views of the subjeCt appear fufficient to impress a
fuil conviction of the utility of banks, and to demonstrate that
they are of great importance, not only in relation to the admini
stration of the finances, but in the general system of the political
economy.
The judgment of many concerning them has no doubt been per
plexed, by the misinterpretation of appearance s, which were to be
ascribed to other causes. The general devastation of personal
property, occasioned by the late war, naturally produced on the
one hand, a great demand for mojiey? and on the other a great de
ficiency of it to answer the demand. Some injudicious laws,
■which grew out of the public diftrcflcs, by impairing confidcnce
and causing a part of the inadequate sum in the country to be lock
ed up, aggravated the evil : The diflipated habits, contra&ed by
many individuals, during the war, which after the peace plunged
them into expences beyond their incomes: The number of ad-
venturers without capital, and in many instances without irifor
mation, who at that epoch rushed into trade, and were obliged to
make any facrificcs tofupport a transient credit : The employment
of confidcrable sums in speculations upon the public debt, which
from its unsettled state was incapable of becoming itfelf a fubfti
tutc : All these circumstances concurring, necefiarily led to usuri
ous borrowing, pioduccd most of the inconveniences, and were
the true causes of most of the appearances ; which, where banks
were established, have been by some erroneously placed to their
account; a mistake which they might eaftly have avoided by turn
ing their eyes towards places where there were none, and where,
nevertheless, the fame evils would have been perceived to exist,
even in a greater degree than where those institutions had ob
tained. .
I hcfe evils have either ceased, or been greatly mitigated. Their
more complete cxtin&ion may be looked for from that additional
security to property, which the constitution of the United States
happily gives (a circumstance of prodigious moment in the scale
both of public and private prosperity) from the of fo
reign capital, under the aufpiccs of that security, to be employed
upon objects and in cnterprifes, for which the state of this country
opens a wide and inviting field, from the consistency and stability,
which the public debt is fact acquiring, as well in the public opi
nion at home and abroad, as in fa 61; from the augmentation of
capital, which that circumstance and the quarter-yearly payment
of in*ereft will afford; and from the niore copious circulation,
"which will be likely to be created by a weil-conftituted national
bank.
The establishment of banks in this country seems to be recom
mended by reasons of a peculiar nature. Previously to the revo
lution, circulation was in a great measure carried on by paper emit
ted by the fevpal local governments. In Pcnnfylvania alone, the
quantity of it was near a million and a half of dollars. This aux
iliary may be said to be now at an end. And it is generally sup
posed, that there has been for some trme pad, a deficiency of cir
culating medium. How far that deficiency is to be confidcred as
real or imaginary, is not susceptible of dcmonflratiori ; but there
are circumstances and appearances, which, in relation to the coun
try at large, countenance the supposition of its reality.
The circumstances.are, besides faftjuft mentioned refpeft
mgpaper emissions, the vast traflsof waste land, and the little ad
vanced slate of manufactures. The progrefßve fettlcmcnt of the
former, while it promifesample retribution, in the generation of
future rcfourccs, diminishes or obftrufls, in the mean time, the
aSire wealth of the country. It not only draws off a part o'f the
circulating money, and places it in a more paflive ftatr, but it di
verts into us own channels a portion of that fpec'es of labour and
mduftry, which would otherwise be employed in fumifhirig ma
terials lor foreign trade, and which by contributing to a favorable
balance, would a {fill the introduftidn of fpccie. In the early
periods of new fettlemcnts, the fcttlers not only furnifh no sur
plus for exportation, but they confumea part of that which is
produced by the labour of oLhers. The Curie thing is a cause,
that manufactures do not advance, or advance/lowly. And not
withstanding foroe hypotheses to the contrary, there are many
k in a u^P: cion, that the precious metals will not
.iQotind in any country which has not mines, or variety of ma
nufactures. Tncy have been sometimes acquired by the sword ;
.>ut the modern fyftern of war has expelled this resource ; and it
ii one upon which the United States will never be inclined to
rely.
I he appearances alluded 10, arc, greater prevalcncy of direst
ja.ttr, in the more interior dillri&s of the country, which how
jTo; V ec,i or OI^ c time pad gradually lessening ; and greater
C '' C n^' S^ ne [ ' n the advantageous alienation of improved
rea ritaie, which also have of late diminilhed, but is still feri
ouilyle.t in different parts of the Union. The difficulty of get
ing money, which has been a general complaint, is not added to
the number; because it is the complaint of all times, and one in
appeal'to •f" >atlon mUst cv " have too gf«t scope to permit an
If the fuppofitionof such a deficiency be in any degree founded,
and lome aid to circulation be desirable, it remains lo inquire
what ought to be the nature of that aid.
Remitting °f paper money by the authority of government
i c y prohibited to the individual States, by the national con
u ion. And the spirit of that prohibition ought not to bedif
"garded by ihe government of the United States. Though pa-
Lm!" 1 10nSL ' n ? er , a B cneral authority, might have some ad
j2pes l,ot a PPbcable to the like emifiions by the States fepa
w.C ir ' ct . l r L '' are a nature so liable to abule, and it may even
l, rn,tafo «"a,n of being abused, that the wisdom of the
Ifj W ', j bc mewn ln ncvcr trusting itfelf with the use nf
oleduemg and dangerous an expedient. In times of tranquil.
"J'S " no consequence, it might even perhaps be
° C , m 3 > to , Pfodu&ive of good ; but in great and
y S emergencies, there is almost a moral certainty of its be
"", n ® mifch'evous. The stamping of paper is an operation so
nf' laying of taxes, that a government, in the
' , P j P ? r C ."J. >ns > would rarely fail in any such cmer
g -y> indulge itfelf too far, in the employment of that re
to avoid as much as possible, one less a u r P icious to prr
len: popularity. If „ (hould not even be carried so far as to be
' , td . an absolute bubble-it would at least be likely to be
extended to a degree, which would occaf.on an inflated and ar
tificial itate of things, incompatible with the regular and prof
peronscourfeof political economy.
, Ol ' lcr mate 'ial differences between a paper currency,
Hlued by the mere authority of government, and one issued by a
bank, payable in coin, i, this: That in the firft cafe, there is no
Uandard t <, whlch an appcjl can (q t;
which will only fatisly, or which will surcharge the circulation :
ru 1 1j I s an 4 "Cults from the demand. If more
ould be issued than is necessary, it will returu upon the bank,
tsemiihons, as clfewhere intimated, must always be in a com
pound ratio to the fund and to the demand : Whence it is evi
tkj r therC ' S a in the natureof the thing : While
the discretion of the government is the only meafurc of the ex
tent or the cm i ill oris, by its own authority.
This confederation further illuftratcs the danger of emifiions of
that iort. and the preference which is due to bank paper,
(To be continual.)
VROPO S A L S,
BY JOHN TRUMBULL,
For Publishing by Subscription,
TWO PRINTS,
from original PiSures painted byhimjelf;
One representing the Death of General WARREN
at the Battle of Bunker's-HM. '
The other, tht Death of General MONTGOMERY
in the JlUuk of -£*r£rr. '
IN the batile of Bunker's-Hill, the following Portraits are intro
duced —
American. Britijh.
Major General Warren, Gen. Sir William Howe,
Putnam. Sir Henry Clinton,
Lieut. Col. John Small,
Major Pitcai r n, and
Lieut. Pitcairn.
In the Attack of Quebec, are seen
General Montgomery, ~ Colonel Thompson
Major Macpherson, and Capt. Chessman. '
CONDITIONS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
The prints will be engraved by two of the moll eminent artists
in Europe. The sue will be 30 inches by 20. The price to fub
llcribers, Three Guineas for each print; one half to be paid at the
time of fubfenbing, the remainder on the delivery of the prints
wni'ch will be as ioon as the woik (which is already confiderablv'
advartced) can poflibly be completed.
Subscriptions are received in this city by 7ofebh Anthony
juii. Goldsmith and jeweller, No. 76, Market-drceL
Thcf.- prints are the firft of a fencs, in which it is proposed to
reprclcjit the molt important events of the American Revolution
No period of thehiftory of man, is more interelline than that
in which we havq lived. The memory of fccnes in which were
laid the foundations of that free government, which secures our
national and individual happiness, mull cvei remain dear to us
and to poltcrily ; and if national pride be in any cafe iuftifiable'
Americans have a right to glory in having given to the world an
example, whose influence is rapidly spreading the love of free
dom through other nations, and every where ameliorating the
condition ol men. 0
To a'ffift m preserving the memory of the illustrious events which
nave marked this period of our country's glory, as well as of the
men who have been the molt important actors in them, is the ob-
J ol l " ls undertaking Hiltory will do justice to an icra so im
portant ; but to be read, tile language in which it is written mutt
tie understood— the language of painting is universal, and intelli
gible in all nations, and every age.
As several years of his time, and a very confidence expcnce
are necelur'y to accomplilh this undertaking, it would bean im
prudent licrihce to the mere hope of reputation to go more deeply
into it, without a probability of ultimate success That he mav
judge of the degree of this probability, Mr. Trumbull, by the ad
vice of his friends, proposes this fubfeription, and flatters himfelf
whi h Tn i T eUng r hal P atrona S e his countrymen,
which will juftify his purfu.ng the objea with ardor; and withl
dnued % ' 1S lmpofrible that so ex P f nfive a work fhoald be con
_ lhe fubjefts proposed to be represented, in addition to the two
foregoing, of Bunker's-Hit/ and Quebec, are—
I he Declaration of Independence,
Battle at Trenton,
Battle of Prikcetown,
Surrender of General Bur coy n e,
Treaty with France,
Battle ofEuTAW Springs,
* Surrender of York-Town,
Treaty of Peace,
Evacuation of New-York,
Resignation of General Washington,
The Arch at Trenton,
Inauguration of the Presid.nt of the Unitm Sta-es
Each picture will contain portraits of the principal characters'
who were prefen: at the scene represented. Those marked with
«ar S , are considerably advanced i and the print, f, om the whw , e
gravers.^ 0 and by .lie most eminent en-
Decembcr 14.
704
This iiy is puihjhti.
By Carey, Stewart, and Co.
No. 22, in Front-Street,
The American Museum
For. DECEMBER, i 79 0.
CON TENTS.
ORIGINAL ARTICLES.
"JVyTETEOROLOGICAL tabic, November, 1790.
iVX Obfcrvations on the weather and disease* in Phil. f or d n
Sketch ofthe natureand causes ofdifeafe., (cientificaliy
Cursory view oi the advantages of the science of geograohv
Observation. on the fuppoit of the clergy. By the late' ro'v Liv
itigfton, *»
Thc famefubjeft continued.
An 'inj' delivered at the eommancemcnt in the collet 0 f
hiladelphia, Dec. 15, tygo. By dr. Rush. 6
Oulervatiens refpefting the proposed national bank.
txtraft from the fccond lecture of the hon. James Wilson, ef*
poetry. '
Address to the red breast.
SELECTED ARTICLES
Essay on population.
Anecdote of an Indian.
Select maxims.
Essay on the influence of religion in civil society.
Reflections on the custom of burying the dead, and the danger of
precipitate interment. *
Julia—or the penitent daughter.
Description of a North Carolina ordinary.
.Remarks refpe&ing the isthmus or Darien.
lurther remarks on the fame fubjeft.
Observations on female honor. By the rev. Joseph Lathrop
Kemarks on elections, and on voting by ballot and viva voce.
1 noughts on the progrefsof manufactures.
A hint to chemists.
A ufeful hint to apothecaries.
Of the enormous hones found in America. *
Plan for liberating the negroes within the United States.
rerdinando Fairfax.
Thoughts on propriety of reading.
AncHote of a barbarian.
Anecdote of a Bofloni an captain,
Anecdote of a Cbinefe tailor,
q , , POETRY.
•btanzas addrefledjfo the ladies.
An elegy to the memory of the American volunteers, who Tctt
April 19, 1777.
Epilogue spoken by Mrs. Henry.
Prologue fpoien by Mr. Hallam.
A By thC J ' Latbr ° P ' ° f S f rin^ld -
' January 1, 1791.
Henry Kuhl,
At No. 143, Second-Strut, near Race-Street,
B Y o nrn^°'ffi Sf f rien u Sin Ncw -Y°rk and Philadelphia, has
miir,™ ?!, !ff ?* lhe P ur P° fe of buying and fell.nsj, on com
m ffion, ihe d.fferent fpec.es of Stock, and of ur.liaui
dated paper in the market. »»"?«<
He Will obtain such Certificates as are required by the funditt
from and 7 unll< l, Securities ; and trans/a -(lock
from and to the Treasury and the Offices of the Commifiioner. of
■Loans, on moderate terms.
"rrs/r '"T' yei " ! P a(l heen cwployed in the Treasury of
o ms' Ind Z S> V S TVr u 3C^a "" ed ** its operation,Td
. and , fla " c " h "" fc ' f lha ' on that score he has a decided-ad
he trmh ofVh g ufinef j.,. here - He is fully impressed with
the troth of the adage that " dispatch is the foul of business" and
the,mcrcftofhisem P io^s •» °>* a
Philadelphia, December zgth, 1790.
IMPERIAL, HYSON, SOUCHONG, andBOHEA
TEAS;
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, and SPICES, &c.
Of the firft Quality—by Retail,
No. 17,
Third-Street, between Chefnut and Market-Streets.
"T? W ! LUAM <»'Salem County,
V V State of Ncw-Jerfey, has two nine nound notes of hand!
fiead \ ' ]Un - 3nd certa in information, it
appears that my name as a fecunty tor the fame is added to those
from tak 1 "Jr™' 1 lle r rCby iorb ' d a " V P erson or P ersons
mi^inorr ny f affig T n r ntoftl,Cm fori am deter
know not ,i fT e ,"° tCS ' ° r 3ny afli ? nment of them, a s I
know nothing of their dealings, nor will I answer for the fame
!r 1 ! jn . REUBEN ROBINSON.
Cumberland County, Nov. 30, 1790.
J >HILAD 2i-rHiA, January 1, 1791.
T h E i»«tner(hip°f John Dunlap and DavidC.Clay-
The Mail,
New Daily Advertiser.
(To i c continued every Evening, Sundays excepted.)
fha " , be P with an elegant new Type, pr.-
ot J.r'M r purpofc ' t 0n Pa P cr ' c< ) ual inf,ze s and qua-
Wcrih/e„ K W paI T/ ° f Eur °P e or America-And the
Mai 1 anHno Means lhall be spared to render the
o'l » W Daily Advertiser in other refpeas worthy
Th/p 1 i al ; 0 " age ' Whldl henow refpeftfully foHcits.
P.M W1 " bC sigh'f igh ' D0 " a " P r - annum - to he
paid at the end of he Year: And Advertifcments will be re
ceived on such moderate Terms as to prove fatisfaftory to those
UiaTlme* P t0 faV ° r lhC P " ntCr with thc ' r Commands
.r, Th , e c MA "; wi " be publifiied at the House No. 2, Lower
(honlv rl rCet(n ° W °u CUp i edbyMr -J- D " Bla '":hard, who will
Wr . ? adjoining House, No. 4.) and at present
BSCRiPTioNsare thankfully received at No. 48, Market-Street,
' DC. CLAYPOOLE.
XT' BENEZER HAZARD and JONAS ADDOMShave entered
»~i into parinerlh.p, and opened an OFFICE, at No. 17*, in
Market-Street, a few doors above Fourth-Street, where, under the
r irm 01
Hazard and Addoms,
„ They purchase and fell all kinds of
CERTIFICATES—PAPER MO.VEY, and BANK
STOCK.
n, N i' B ' T™ s / Cr » made at ,he Publ 'c Cff-ccs, and Business in ge
nenl trifled on Commission. Dtctmicr *g. *
PROSE
By Mr.