[No. LXXVI.j
For the Tablet fee third page.
THE GUEST. No. X.
Conscience, the burthen of the song,
Whether the action'i right or wrong.
A
AN enlightened Conscience is the vicegerent
of Heaven in the foul of man : It fits in judgment
upon all our aiftions—and from its decisions there
is no appeal. It applauds our condudt when re
gulated by jlilt principles ; and condemns every
deviation from the paths of retftitude : Itfupports
the mind under fuflerings in a righteous cause ;
and plants a dagger in our bofoin amidst the ap
plauses which we are conscious we do not merit.
Conscience is however a term of very equivocal
import,applied to those principles either religious
or political, upon which different ideas are enter
tained by mankind. Religious opinions, in an
especial manner, have made fad work with the
infallibility of Conscience: It has converted it
into a convenient engine to coinpafs the purposes
of fuperftitution, enthusiasm and ambition—and
men have been plundered, butchered, and burn
ed at the flake, "for Conscience fake." —Tis edu
cation that gives, in a great ineafure, tlietimflure
to Conscience : The follower of Mahomet feels
no compuntftionattheviolation of laws, with the
observance of which, the catholic thinks the en
joyments of Heaven are inseparably connedled :
One thinks that to eat flefli in lent, is a damnable
fin ; the other anticipates the joys of paradifeiu
the pleasures of his seraglio. The mind that is
overlhadowed with the glooms of enthusiasm,
feels its conscience wounded, when it beholds a
chearful countenance, and a disposition which
realizes that "to enjoy, is to obey." To wear a
hat, or to pull it off, is a question of conscience
with some—and to defend thatlife and property,
•which men enter into focieiy more fully to pro
teift, and more effectually to enjoy i is a Humbling
Hone, and a rock of offence to those who never
refufed o participate the peace and fecuricy,
purcliafed by 'he blood anil treasure of their
nei"-hb3rs. Conic'ence works wonders—it has
transform»d many a blockhead int > a pulpit ora
tor, wt- , ro get riil or the curse, " ill'the sweat
of thy brow malt thoueai bread," pretends con
science, when he forfakes his hoiieft calling, and
becomes a rambling retailer of raving nonsense—
" a blind leader of the bilnd."
As to a political conscience, we have not heard
much about it, since the explosion of pajftve obe
dience, and the right divine. At the beginning of
the revolution, some artful tories played a few
tunes upon this firing—but the people were too
penetrating not to fee thro their jesuitism, and
they soon relinquiihcd the hope of railing a
schism in the consciences of our countrymen —for
they found that 110 article of faith in their poli
tical creed, was more firmly established than this,
that
" Refflance to Tyrants, is obedience to Cod."
Some make conscience of relieving thediCreffed
but the miser's conscience has a reverse direc
tion his conicience will overflow in good wishes,
" be ye warmed, and be ye clothed," —but to
bellow any part of his wealth to realize the text,
is utterly againll his conscience—and under the
pretence of providing for his own household, left
he should be called an infidel, he monopolizes the
bounties of providence, and becomes a curse to
the world " for conscience fake."
How important to our peace and tranquility
then is a good conscience !—With refpec r t to the
eternal principles of right and wrong, every ra
tional being has an unerring monitor within—
but opinions usurp the 1110 ft arbitrary dominion
over the human mind. Happy the youth whole
understanding is early conducted into the path',
of virtue, philosophy, and fcienee—whe escape ;
the timfture of enthusiasm, and the fetters of
prejudice—who can give a scope to hisjudgment,
and draw his maxims from the fountains of truth,
experience, aHdrightreafon—to fuchamind, the
universe is harmony—benevolence is its element
and the Deity a delightful source of hope and
contemplation—from which alone can result a
" confcienee void of offence."
ANECDOTE.
HENRY IV. King of France, thus expressed
liimfelf to the fair Gabrielle, " My beaute
ous love, two hours after the arrival of this cour
ier, you will fee a cavalier who loves you much.
They call him King of France and Navarre, which
are certainly honorable, though very painful ti
tles. That of being your fubjeft is infinitely
more delightful. All three together are good ;
and let what will happen, I have resolved never
to yiold tliemto anyone."
SATURDAY January 2, 1790.
THE OBSERVER.
No. XI.
Further remarks on a land tax.
writer of this paper, tho' unknown even
A to suspicion, and distant from fame, wishes
to be thought an houeft man. Such fubje<ts as
he is considering, are apt to excite a suspicion that
fume evil is designed , these suspicions may be
fomented by the litigious, but with the body of
mankind, their origin is from a generous love of
freedom, and a determination to vindicate their
honeit acquirements.
After so many delusions, and ill concerted poli
cies, the Americans would be stupid indeed, did
they not watch every proposition of measures as
it rises. Next to personal liberty, the preserva
tion of property is the nioft sacred object which
can be affected by government, and taxation is the
great instrument by which government acts on the
p operties of the people. The propolal of a land
tax is a weighty subject, and a firm conviction
that it is the molt direct way of emancipating
you from a fyftem,which you can never reduce to
calculation, is the real'on of iny doing it. A citi
zen is unfafely situated, when the demands made
on him by government, cannot be reduced to
previous estimation—but can you do this under
your several State lyftems i You cannot deter
mine from year to year the manner, nor the pro
portion, nor the articles in which you are to be
taxed—You choose aflemblymen once or twice a
year, and from a long habit, they consider it as
juftiuable to make sudden alterations—they im
nofe new sums, of which yon htive no ( intelligence
but by the warrant of a tax gatherer—thus cir
cumltanced, 110 previous effimate of what you
inuft pay can be made—this I consider as an evil,
not of the gentlemen who serve you, but of the
system you are pursuing.—Warrants go out from
the State Treasurer against certain diltriifts for
certain sums ; subordinate officers make the tux
bills against individuals ; the law, gives them a
rule ; but not one in ten of the people can tell
whether this rule be honestly followed : If the
multitude of your tax gatherers are not ftricftly
honest, there will be some over charges, and if
discovered, it is easy to call them mistakes. It
wounds the feelings of a good fubjeit to wrangle,
either with his law givers or collectors, and the ,
thing pafles. A fiinple charge on all lands, can
be previously estimated—the planter knows the
number of his improved acres, this once ascer
tained answers forever, he forefees and provides
for the exact demand, and there is no poliibility
of fraud.
I already hear it objected ; the proposal is partial,
for improved lands are of unequal value, and fame
one acre may be worth half a dozen others.
The fame objection lies with greater force a
gainst your present system—The tax you now pay
on lands supposes them of equal value, only dis
criminating the kind of cultivation. Your polls
are equally assessed ; one of these may be sagaci
ous, healthy and rich, and very profitable to the
man who carries it ; while another is void of all
discernment, sickly, poor and anexpenfive bill to
the owner—your cattle are equally taxed ; when
it is known some one beast, either for sale or im
provement, maybe worth ten others in the flock
—and this is the cafe with every article in your
taxable estate as it now stands.
No kind of property has a greater equality than
the foil of the earth, the acres, naturally more
productive are few, and superior cultivation is
the chief thing which gives them an advantage.
Taxing high cultivation, in moftinftances, is but
taxing the industry which one man has greater
than another ; and in this view of the subject,
comes nearer to injustice.
Improvements in the art of liufbandry Ir<rse
made different kinds of foil much nearer in value
and profit, than they were half a century past—
vast extents of earth, lately supposed of no value,
by cropping thetn suitably are made
and daily improvements in hulbandry, increases
their equality : but if after all, there be any foil so
poor it will not pay a small tax, it ought to be dif
mifled from cultivation and planted with trees,
to prevent that fcarctty of timber and wood,
which will soon become an intolerable evil to the
poor, in the ancient parts of this country.
To do fractional jufticein a matter of this na
ture is impoflible. That system is the belt, which
comes nearest to perfect justice, is most intelligi
ble to the people, and may be executed with
smallest expence. Suppose the comparative value
of your lands were to be appraised—to dojultice
the appraisement miift be frequently repeated,
and the expence will more than balance the gain.
I dread a system loaded with a prodigious number
of subordinate officers—if you pay them a small
[Published o/i We-dnefday and Saturday,
1 nra, their numbers will make an innnenfe a
mount ; if you do not pay them, thev will by
lome artifice pay them (elves from the hard earr
ings or the people—and when public measures
pais through an infinitude of managers, you can
not make them responsible, and the citizen:? under
the appearance of protection are pillaged at dil
cretion. Remember the late war ! It was the
humor of the people to multiply managers—you
had public officers thro subordinate grades, innu
merable as the leaves of summer, down to captains
of a dozen oxen, flourifhing with the national
ceckade in their hats—with all this apparatus,
your armies fufFered every distress thro want of
the provisions then rotting in store. An absolute
monarch isjpolitic in encreafing the number of in
terior officers, for the additional expence creates
an influence by which he govqrns the people;
but a republic needs not this policy. A repub
lican government mull be grounded on economy,
on the affections and confidence of the people, on
general knowledge and happiness ; audit ouglic
theieforeto avoid a scheme of nieafures, that is
either intricate or expensive.
Another objection to the land tax, asjpropofed,
will be this—that the inhabitants in ihe great tovms
escape the payment oj a fuul proportioned to their ability.
The objection appears with weight—let it be
candidly considered. The men of honesty
honor, will not vviffi to avoid their part of the bur
then, whether town or country be his relidence.
Where a tax on lands the only means of a nation
al revenue, the proposal might work injustice—
but by the joint operation of a national ii;spcft,
excise and land tax, the objection will be obviated.
Suppose twoperfons of equal interefl, one a ciri
zenin some great town, the other a planter in the
country—the nature of a citylife will lead to the
greater consumption of such articles as are char
ged with import and excise, so that the city inha
bitant payS double or treble the sum paid by the
other.
The inhabitants of a great town roust purchase
all their food and cloathing ; and it is not a love
of luxury, but neceflity that obliges them to do
this ; by which means they confurie a fcui fold
share of taxable articles—atid duties on commerce
mult always have this eiFeCt—for every man pays
in the proportion that he consumes the duticd
articles. The wealth of great towns is generally
overated—they present you with a /cw instances
of great riches, and a thousand of extreme indi
gence and wretchedness. Were the property of
large cities to be equalized among their irhabi
tants, a share would not be more than an average
with the country inhabitants. '■ lie parage of
business, the (how of mercantile property, myh
of which is owned in the ba. k count , and col
lected for sale—the luxury and idleness of a few,
with the general hilarity among a concourse of
people, are circnmftances, when he beholds them,
which lead the unacquainted planter to fuppoie,
that the people in great cities might pay a propor
tion, much greater than they do, without intol
erable wretchedness. Onthis stating of facts, let
a land tax be brought into joint operation with a
national import and excise. I think the objection
is obviated.
EUROPE.
LONDON, Nov. 2
IT is to the honor as well as to the good fortune of this country,
that the bank, of England never since its firft foundation flopped
payment for one day,or evei used the least fubterfuge in payment,
but upon one occasion-, and that was one day during the rebellion
of 1745 J from a scarcity of specie, they paid that day only in sil
ver, which from the increased quantity of time used in couuting,
&c. necessarily checked a run which might have been fatal to pub
lic credit. The next day, what from the sams of money sent by
merchants and bankers, every thing went on at the bank as ufua).
Extract of a letter from BrnJJcls, OR. 19.
" This city has narrowly escaped from becoming an awful mo
nument of civil discord ana popular despair. A confpiracv has
just been detefled to undermine and blow up the houses of Dalton
and Tranfmanfdorff (the Launav and Bertheirof the Netherlands)
and the guardhouse; seizing ihearfenal* and one of the gates, ancf
admitting a body of exiles into the city. The conspirators were
notthofe who had either spirit or vigor for martial enterpi ife, for
the nobles and theyouth had been exiled. But the contagious sen
timent of general indignation had reached that portion of society
which is the least acceltible to it.
" The unwarlike chara&er of the priesthood, the peaceful hab
its of commercial opulence, the seclusion and feeblenefs of clois
tered females, were animated and armed by the public despair.
A quantify of powder and combustible materials had been intro
duced into a vault, where the treasure has been usually deposited
The key of this vault had been furnifhed by the Emperor's bartk.
er, who is -.ed. The town engineer had been employed in un
dermining the devoted houses; arms and ammunition
In the gardens of some of the conspirators, and coin hid in the
of the nuns, in many convents. But they were beuayed by their
indiscreet and confident exultation.
The vigilance of the minifierial jfpies, who have been so nu
merous as to poison all social intercourse, discovered the design.
The firft person apprehended was the preeeptor of the children of
the Due d'Urfi. In the chamber of that ill fated young man were
fonnd plan* for taking off the ininifter and General, manifeftos
>0 be scattered among the people, and other papers alluding to de-
Hgns which it is believed the Government are not very anxious toThat he is in pofTeflion of the mod important secrets,
we niay conclude Tfom the earneftneis with which, after his ai
lettment, the Dutchefs d*UVfi solicited on her knees an interview
of four minutes wftH'hiifr; but the could not obtain tier request.
The officer on guard was inexorable.
" On the following .day twenty peifons were arreßed, umong
whom were the celeknattd Linguet Trilco, the Deputy Town En
gineer, two Canons of thechurch ot St Gudule, and M. lierman
a reputable merchant, In whofc garden were discovered iooocui-
with two mnfket balls to each. The Town hnjin ci
hmifeif, Mr. W , the Ranker, and several other periods o:
coniequcnce have escaped. The conllernation and dilmay iur
pal's description. The Enlivimins proceed hourly, and every mji
lecms to expect, -with silent despair, the mandate that is toimmuri
hint, and the military hand that is to conduct him to his dungeon.
Meanwhile the wantonnefs ot oppreflion proceeds with rapic
ftnde* in the country. In confequcnce of the fuppolad partiality
ot the Abbots for the Patriots, the Emperor has publitlied 11
edia, sequestrating all the abbeys of Braban;, and appointuigcivi.
otticeis M them for the adminittration of their revenue. thelc
admimftrations, each of them attended by 100 grenadiers and
100 dragoons, have entered on their office, and the taini ic av.t
Pes of Croatia and Sdavoma itvel in the enjoyment ot all the deb
cious wines that minifteied to the luxury of the Fkmilh monks.
Miss D'Oliva, Id famous in the hiltory of tin necklace, by Iki
candid .vidence which cleared the Cardinal, died lately at ton
tenv near Paris in the g.eat.-ll distress. after having been deserted
by a fellow of the name of Beaufaue, whom (be had married.
The child of -which she was delivered in the Balhlcis still alive.
The friends of the Duke ot O' :' mi now lay, the yucen chaig
edhim with heaid o; . party inimical to the r cl g"|"B
Monarch ; and that his Highfltfs immediately went tohis Majetly.
and besought him to give him some honourable million to tiig
land, that his departure might not have the appeatance ot a flight ,
and thathe m; ,ht prove by hisabfencc, until the new constitution
was further advanced, his attachment to the public weal.
Marlhal Laudohn is a Pole by birth, though he has long been
n the Aufuian feivice. He has acquired as much popularity 111
he army, by tin? judicious promotions made in conkquence ot his
reefs, as lie hiss gained throughout the Emperor's dominions by
t fuccefsof hit arms.
- |C new French Administration is reported to be as follows,
an 'he Members are all from among the National Airembly.
de Mirabean, Minister for Pans.
op of Autun, Minifte- of Finance.
L: de Seger, Minister ot Foreign Affairs.
I) i de Rochefoucault, Keeper of the Seals.
November io.
Ch< 'ourg, at present, is in great commotion,
and no day patfes without some express from
the National Aflembly with orders how to ast. —
The woH notwithltandiug, are carried on with
the fame in fatigable industry ; and the infpetft
ing boats la ly made aftritft survey of the road,
to learn if any sand had gathered since the mak
ing of the wall, when they found it all as found
as "before the works were begun.
An order is passed, for all Nobles and persons
of landed property to appear at Paris, within a
limited time, on pain of confifcation of all their
property for theufe of the nation.
The attempts to aflenible the States of the pro
vinces, according to the ancient form, seems to
have been an expiring effort of the clergy and
aristocratic party, whom common danger has uni
ted in a common cause, without the consent, ap
probation, or concurrence of the people. It has
not succeeded in any one inltance. The meeting
of the States of Dauphiny, who were fununoned
by the Commiffioit Intermediairc, to meet on the 2d
ill It. is put off, by the fame authority, to the 14th
ol" December. Before that time the National
Aflembly will, probably, have completed the or
ganization of the primary and intermediate af
lemblies; and the cities, towns, and other corpor
ations of Dauphiny, and all the other provinces
will prefer a general, uniform, and equal plan ot
repi efentation to the old arillocratic constitution
of the States.
Letters from in Britany, dated Otflo
ber 26th, fay, that all the cities ot that province
are fending detachments of National militia to
Tregnier and Lannion, to prevent the efferts ot
the Bilhop's incendiary mandate, and to atft, it
neceflary, againlt him and his adherents. The
letters add, that the number of troops then 011
their march, was computed at between twenty
and thirty thousand.
Gn the firft of this month the diftritfts of Paris
fen deputies to the Hotel de VilL', to enquire into
the 11 ate of the provision of tlie city. The mem
bers of the,community appointed to preside ovet
this department retuined for answer, that abun
dai.ee was everv day encreafing; that before the
fifteenth iuftant, Paris would have a supply in
hand of more than 40,000 sacks of flour ; that the
magazines already began to fill; and that thefub
filtence of the capital was completely fecuretl for
the winter.
Letters are alfofaid to have been received from
Philadelphia, that the harvest in the United States
has been so abundant in general, that the faint
quantity of corn which before colt from 35 to 4c
livres, may now be had fax five 11 ; that thf
Americans were ready to supply the Europeai
markets : " See," fay the Parisians, "how Hei
ven favors those countries in which the rights <
men are known and refpec r ted."
Extract of a letter Jrom Geneva, Odobea 28.
You vrifli for some news from this country
Well, I'll tell you foine : Every part of Swit
land, and Geneva above all, swarms with Frt
Nobility ; Marshal de Castries is hourly exp<
at Copec; a country feat of M. Neckar, his fr
who iends it to him as a fafe retreat ; the
bifliop of Paris is at Chamberry, with M. 1
tin, tlie late Keeper of the Seals ; the Prin
Conti will spend the winter there. M.de
Toleiida! is at Netifchatel, preparing a m i
tliat will astonish all Eur, *e ; M. Mouniei
his neck from the reverb re (lamp-iron) o
failles, lias fled into Savoy. (This intelligent
I had from an Aid de Camp of M. de Dbrfort,
Commandant at Grenoble.) M. deLallyand the
Princess of Henin are to pay a visit to_ the Mar
shal at Copet, and the former will certainly meet,
and have a conference, somewhere with M. Mou
nter, on state affairs. A fubferiprion has been
opened here by the Geneva bankers in favor of
France. Six hundred thousand livres (2Jo,oool.)
have been already fubferibed ; it is like a drop ol
oil thrown into the sea to calm a storm. Ihe
magittrates of this republic have forbidden the
manufacturing offtarch or hair powder, and fup
prefled all biscuits and pastry works. The petit
maitresand gluttons do not murmur. No baker
is permitted to make white bread ; the brown loaf
has been raised from 45 sous to 6, and yet 110 re
verberes ever came to our minds. This certain
ly proclaims the praise ofa free nation at the ex
pence of another, that talk *rymuchol liberty,
and are perhaps not ripe • it, since they are
unwilling to make the facr - s liberty requires,
and seem to mistake lictnt inefs for liberty, in
the fame manner that a 111 is., thrown, on a sud
den, into the world, won take debauchery foi
gallantry. Adieu. Lan without ceremony, as
a true republican, your'? cc.
November 14.
Extract of a letter sumf um Parts, Niv. 4.
The news we receiv< rom Brabant announce
another acftion near Tf lout. Between two and
iliree thousand patrio have perished. Count
d'Anhalt Saxe, brothe o the Empress of Russia,
is killed *. The troo refufed to fire a feconil
time. The Prince o( .igne, and the Count de la
March, both officers the French service, are
gone to join the patri . M. de T rauttmanfdorff,
The burner of , has placed fifty guards at
at the Dowagers of mberg's hotel, and as ma
ny at that of Maline and at the Capuchin's con
vent."
*He-aas .1 volunteer i e Bender Regiment, and once Cap
lain of Hussars.
The Ruffians ar' now matters of the mouth and
of both fides the liefter, and when the accounts
came away, wcr to tui-n the blockade of
Bender into a re- arfiege. This town, itis tlio't,
cannot hold ou >ng, as all communication with
it, bothby lane' id by the Black Sea, is nowen
tirely cut off.
The mefleiif vlio brought this news to Vienna
carried with h. . some links of chains, in which
the Grand Vi intended to have bound the Au
strian troops, hom he hoped to have made pri
soners of wa A great many waggons were load
ed with thelt locking chains, which fell into the
hands of th Prince de Coubourg after his vic
tory at Mav eftie on the 22d of September.
One of tl chains weighed two quintals and
ahalf, and i 14feet long, and was calculated to
bind five p .ners.
As the G id Vizicrexpedted to make the whole
of the P i. e's forces prisoners of war, some
j uflgeme ! lay be formed of the number of those
chains, a veil as of the waggous which carried
them. e Emperor gave orders that these hor
rid trop: s should be placed in the arsenal, there
to rerna is monuments not only of the savage
cruelty the Turks, but also of their fhaineful
defeat.
TIII egiments have received orders to march
to the Jtherlands, two of them are liorfe, name
ly, C. -ourg's and Keifer's light dragoons.
At nts were received at Vienna from Jafly,
in Mi ivia, that the Auftrians had again defeated
the rks near Brailow, taken 30 pieees of can
non in them and made themselves matters of
cha own.
1 .low was taken without a fliot.
M rfhal Laudohn intends, before he puts his ar
m- ito winter quarters, to penetrate further in
t- rvia, in three different directions : one by
Z rnick and Ufilzai, another by Nyfla, and the
t) dby Orfova.
v'iddin is to be bombarded ; and 18 battalions
• foot, and all the light horse, had been aiflually
: on that service.
" e Marshal gave a magnificent entertainment
jo ; late Governor of Belgrade and his prin
ci officers, before they were sent away toa Tur
; fortrefs.
is reported that the Marshal asked the Pacha
at could have been his reason for surrendering,
so short a time, a fortrefs of so much impor
nce, that wasfo amply provided with stores and
iimunitiori, and might, in the opinion of all the
uftrian officers, have flood out at leatt a week
anger.
Ofman replied, " My soldiers refufed to stand
by ine. They skulked into the casemates when
your dreadful fire opened from all your bat
teries. I could not, thus abandoned, witlittand
• alone, your formidable attacks.
" But, laid Marshal Laudohn, what will the
r< Porte fay on the occasion ? In a Government
" such as yours, do you think that allowance will
" be made for the necessity imposed upon you
" by the desertion of your troops, to lurrender
" the fortrefs?—Do you think your life in dan*
" ger
" All the Officers in the garrison," replied
Ofman, " prefled. me tocapitulate ; and all have
ligned the minutes bf capitulation. Upon ilii
" circumstance 1 chiefly depend for my perfonai
" fafety."
The total loss of the Imperialists, from the day
they crolied the Save, to the day they took Bel
grade, amounted to no more than 289 feijeants
and rank and file killed, and 752 wounded ; anil
11 officers killed, and 27 wounded.
The military chest at Belgrade, when the place
surrendered, whs totally empty. It was though:
the Pacha had divided the money among hissofti
cers.
Ofm.m Pacha is about forty years of age: he
speaks Italian extremely well; in his haram there
were only four women.
A Ihort account of Brabant, and upon what;
principle the Brabancons, at present, make re
liftance to the Emperor.
The province of Brabant is distinguished by
two divisions— firft what is called Dutch Brabant,
the second Aujlrtan Brabant.
The chief towns of the firft are Boifteduc,
Breda, Bergenopzoom, Maeftriclit, Grave, Lillo,
Steenbergen—of the l'econd, Bruilells, Louvain,
Vilvorden, and Lawden.
Antwerp and Malines are provinces indepen
dent of Brabant, though surrounded by it, and
fubjedt to the House of Austria.
The seventeen provinces, of which Brabant
forms apart, were, long after the decline of the
Roman empire, governed by their own Princes,
till swallowed up by the House of Burgundy ■/
from thence they palled to Spain, and from Spain,
thole which are now called Austrian Netherlands,
are considered as a circle of the empire, and
contribute their lhare to the imposts ot the em
pire, but notji'ubje»ft to its judicatures; for though
the Archducal House, as being- Sovereign of the
whole, is the directing and summoning Prince,
the Constitution enjoins an Aflembly, or Parlia
ment, for each province, confiding of the Cler
gy, Nobility, and Deputies, who meet at Brus
sels, and who are convened to make laws for the
general good of the whole.
Conceiving those privileges trampled upon by
the late decrees of the Emperor, and, perhaps,
feeling the general spirit of Continental politics
at present in their favour, the inhabitants of the
different towns have armed and make refiltance,
the event of which time only can determine.
November, 17.
By the Dutch and Flanders mail which arrived
on Saturday morning, we have the following
important news from Cleves :
That the King of Prussia has sent orders to
Lieutenant General de Schliffen, Governor of
Wefel, to march with a considerable body of
forces to appease the troubles at Leige, they are
no be joined by others belonging to the Bishop ol
Munfterand the Duke of Juliers, in their titles as
co-directors of the empires.'
Extract of a letter from Brussels, O&ober 27.
The Rubicon is atlength palled ! The armed
refugees of Brabant, dispersed in proclamations
and annihilated in gazettes, entered this province
oil the Dutch frontier, to the number, it is said,
of near forty thousand men, 011 the 23d inft.
The following day, after some fkirmiflies, in
which only a few lives were loft, they nvadethein
lelves mailers of Lillo, the key of Brabant ou
that fide, and advanced towards Antwerp. In the
night of jhe 24th, they poifelled themselves of
an holtage, for the security of their friends in.
Bruflels. M. de Crumpiper, Chancellor of Bra
bant, one of the molt active among the agents of
their sovereign, wasfurprifed at his country fear
on the banks of the Scheld, by a detachment of
about 30omen,andconveyedtot.he head-quarters
of the patriots. They gave immediate notice to
the Aultrian officer that they would retaliate on
hi» person any feveritiesexercifed on their imprU
foned friends.
This manoeuvre gave to the following
one 011 the part of the government: —Count Lan
noy, and three more noblemen of the most an
cient and opulent families in the province, had,
in obedience to the injunctions, and on the faitli
of the promiles contained in the Emperor's last
proclamation, returned to this capital from their
voluntary exile. They were yesterday appre
hended as hostages for the fafety of the Chan
cellor.
General Dalton has just issued the following
proclamation :
Whereas, several villages have hoisted the
Standard of revolt, their inhabitants have been
found in arms, and every thing drawn up in mi
litary order ; and as it is ellentially proper to
make the rebels return to their duty of fubuiiffion
to their legal sovereign, we notify, that notwitli
ftanding our repugnance to shed human blood,
and to render unhappy innocent people who may
be found amongst the guilty, we ffiall neverthe
less be reduced to the disagreeable necellity of
fire to all such villages as shall hoist the
Standard of revolt, or where any of-the inhab
itants Ihall have Ihewn themselves friends to ir,
by making refinance to his Majesty's troops.
In the general search made here for arms, even
the dignity of foreign Ministers was not spared.
The houses of the French, Dutch, and English.
Envoys were fcarched. The firft of these mini-fters sent a copy of the order to Search his house
to the National Aflembly.
PARIS, November 6.
Some of the Convents of Nuns havethanked the
National Aflembly for their decree, forbiding
any vows to be taken. There are other Convents,
however, who will not befo well pleased with the
decree in question ; however, taken in a general
point of view, it must be approved of.
THE NATIONAL MONITOR.
No. XXXII.
When the Almighty form'd the spheres,
To rule the ever circling years,
His wifioin in the wond'rous plan,
Defign'd the happiness of man ;
And Time, while he his track pursues,
th' Almighty's glorious views.
THE number ten forms a series of years which
include as many remarkable incidents in the
liiftoryof mankind, as any that can be mention
ed. From the years 1760 to 1770, to go no
further back, the inhabitants of North America
experienced the melt important changes in their
situation, sentiments, manners, and views. Thro
their unparellelled exertions, the war in Ameri
ca was brought to a glorious termination : From
that moment we felt our consequence in the l'cale
of empire—and our views became enlarged ; ar
rived to maturity, our dependence on Great-Bri
tain became a very problematical event.
In 1770, we were on the eve of diflolving our
connection with the mother country ; from that
time til 75, how rapidly events crowded upon
each other, to bring the important crilis. Many
supposed we were ripe at that date for the revo
lution ; but some wife, and penetrating patriots,
whose names need not now be mentioned, repres
sed the ardor of too sanguine dispositions, till
the people were fully prepared, and the infatua
tion of our enemies was complete—The mine
was then fprung —and our Independence was
established—so that in 1780, nothing lhort of om
nipotence could have carried us back to our for
mer situation.
From i 730, to 1790, the retrofped: gives a per
iod that amazes, altonifhes, and alinoft confounds
us in the contemplation—What victories ! what
triumphs ! what exultation ! what Utopian
schemes ! what embarrassments ! what alarms !
what fluctuations of councils ! what imbecility !
what fears for the sacred ark of liberty, amidst
the dread of anarchy, the prostration of law and
government, and the unrighteous and-lliameful
expedients of tender laws, and that corse of all
morals and national character, paper money !—
But that arm, which is omnipotent to save, roused
us from oilr low state of degradation, and awak
ening as from a delirium, Amcrica oncc vlore role
to her wonted magnanimity. The 2hree last
years lhe has done more to ellablilh her charac
ter, than in all her exertions in the darkest tno.
incuts of her conflict—great in the hour, when
greatness is adorned with its brightelt lnftre, lhe
hath eilabliihed her fame and happiness on the
immortal pillars of laws and government; realiz
ing that lhe fought for a lhadow, unless her ac
quilicions of liberty and independence were se
cured by the barrier of a just and free Constitu
tion : With aftonilhing unanimity lhe hatli adopt
ed a fyllem, that, if the people continue-wife, will
perpetuate their felicity to the final cjnfuinma
tion of all things.
We are now arrived to the beginning of the
last ten years, in the eighteenth century —and
taking ourcalculations from part experience, how
pregnant does the womb of Time appear. The
concentration of the wisdom of our country hath
ondutfted the States into the path of honor and
fafety—a glorious reward awaits her toils and la
bors—the road is narrow at the outset, but wi
dens as we advance—the timid, the doubtful may
hesitate, perplex, and draw back, but the intre
pid patriots will persevere, till the salvation of
their country is perfected.
With grateful hearts then, let us adoVe that
providence which, after giving us the victory
over our enemies, hath at length enabled us to
triumph over ourselves—and in the words of our
beloved President in his fpeecli 10 the National
Legislature, let us offer our " fervent fuppticatians
*' to that almighty being, who rules over the universe,
" -who presides in the councils of nations, arid whose
" providential aids can supply every human dejefi,
" that hit benedidion may confecrats to the liberties
" and happiness of the .people of the United States, a
" government inJUtuted "by thimfelvesJor these essen
" tial purposes, and may enable every injlrument
1 ' employed in its adminijlration, to execute with fuc*
" cess the fund ions allotted to hit charge."
7'en years in the age of a country may be as
one tp the age of man : In the period between
this and 1800, may our country progress in Em
pire, true greatnefi and glory, and her liberties
be secured beypnd the reach of anarc liy and def
potifin ; and from her example, may the whole
race of mankind be led to vindicate the dignity
of human nature, and eftablilh UNIVERSAL
FREEDOM,
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATEi
1 ALLEGORY.
13 ET WEEN two wealthy neighbors lived a poor
man, who had nothing but his industry to
depend upon. He was much indebted to Albi
nus, the proudest of his neighbors, who finding
that his circumflances did not allow him to pay,
threatened to take away his house, and to throw
him into ptifon, Gallicus, the other neighbor,
partly from natural benevolence,and partly from a
jealous disposition towards Alb in us,who was then
considered as unfriendly to the whole world, un
dertook the defence of thepoor man Columbel
l u s,and [pent his health and part of his treasure to save
him. Now the good man began to thrive, and to
form even some connection with proud Albinus,
who finding that fomethiug might b: got from him
cajoled him on every occasion ; but the exertions
of Gallicus in his favor had been too great,and
the times growing bad,GA llicus saw himfelf ob
liged to make great alterations in his family, and
reduce his expences, which occasioned a great
uproar amongst his numerous servants, some of
which ran away with bloody heads into the house
ofALBiNUS, where they inif-reprefented every
tranfaiftion of their former matter. The poor
man, forgetting his obligations to Gallicus,
gave a currency to these falfhoods, and polled up
all the scurrilous language of Albinus, and the
discontented servants of his friend and benefadlor.
When Gallicus was informed of this he was
more grieved at the behavior of bis presumed
friend, Columbellus, than at that of Albinus.
And who is this ungrateful Man ?—Read the
new.fpapers ofAmerica on the revolution of France
and—blush if you have a foul.
BENEVOLENCE.
. FOR THE GAZETTE OF THEUNITED STATES.
f1 * ■
OE>E,
rOR THE,NIAV VtAR-
Hail the NEW YEAR f Farewell blest Eighty Nine !
Long (hall thy numbers, in our annals shine,
O'er evYy year that's past, blest year indeed,
That saw our rights fecur'd, and Europe freed,
At least the work's begun—Ninay fltiall fee
It alinoft finilhed ; Europe almost free.
May Frenchmen use their power, so late retriev'd,
In humbling pride, and righting the aggriev'd ;
May prudeace teach them not to go too far,
Nor whelm their country in the woes of war.
Blest Eight y Ni saw our glorious Chief,
# Rouse from xepofe, and fly to our relief,
Fly to cement that Union which he wrought,
By wisdom fix, the pile for which he fought.
Blest Eighty Nine, that gave h;m to ourftght,
More lov'd, more honour'd, glo.r iouflybright,
Long may his influence o'er our States extend,
Our much lov'd brother, father, chef and friend,
And when by age, and nature's hand bow'd down,
Time's silver honors, (freedom's only crown,)
Play o'er his brow, then may he Hovfr decay.
Blest with health's smile, on each succeeding day,
Till life's worn fountains, gradually ccafe,
And pray'rt of millions waft his foul to peace. D.
THE TABLET.
No. L.XXVI. ,
" If a man often changes his friends, 1 fiifpeft
he is deficient either in candor or difcernrnent."
WHEN we hear men complain of the fickle
nefsorinfincerity of their friends we should
not readily participate in their reproaches. Few
men poflefs the art of maintaining a tiiendfhip
through any great viciilitude of circumstances.
In a ftateof prosperity we are apt to demand from
our friends, more attention and refpetft, than we
deserve: In a state of adversity we are prone to
expedl more relief and patronage from others,
than they aredifpofed to communicate. Thus it
happens, that in almost any situation, we are li
able to make complaints, where there is no real
foundation. _
My neighbour Discretus is now upwards ot
fixtyl years old. The scenes ot his lifehavebeen
critical and diverfified. He allured me, in a late
converfation,that he never loft the friendfhip of a
person which he o nee poflefled ; and that he scarce
ever was acquainted with a person, who did not
become his friend. 1 his is the more extraordi
uacy, as Dischetus is not distinguished by any
brilliancy of talents, or generosity of condudt.
The'mediocrity of his abilities raises him above con
tempt ; but are not so eminent as to excite envy. In
/hort, he is a prudent man, who, though he may
gain slowly upon tlte friendihip or attachment of
liis acquaintance, never runs any risque of losing
what he does gaiu. If not warmfh Qfjfpij-it
to perform great or liberal actions ; he has the (.ac
tion toihun those that are mean and illiberal. Hi»
virtues are not carried to such an extreme in any
instance as to become a weakness or a vice. Ke
observes the line where the lhades of virtue and
vice meet,and walks so strait upon it,as always to
el'cape inconvenience or reproach. It is true some
men call him a negative kind of character ; but
this is not material so long as he does nothing po
sitively badj and avoids censure, in all his actions.
He never flanders any person ; ,nor does hs ever
extol any one to the Ikies. In his view, all men
are worth attending tofo far as not to incur their
ill will; but none are so meritorious, that he will
not treat them with some caution and reserve. By
not expediting too much from his friend he is fel
domdifappointed ; andby not promifingtoo much,
he is never charged with deception.
ALBANY, December 24.
Col. Maxwell, who arrived in town last e
vening, from the county of Ontario, has favored
us with the following intelligence— That a wag
gon road, with bridges over the creeks and riv
ers, quite to the Genefee river, 119 miles from
Oneida, is now completed—the proprietors of
the Genefee Company having opened the road
from Oneida to Caynga, 62 miles in extent —That
the fait-works are in such forwardnefs as to af
ford forty bufliels per day—That Mr. Ellicor, on
the firft of November last, applied to Col. Har
ris, the commanding officer at Niagara, for per
mif lion to pass that fortrefs, for the purpose of as-
the boundaries between the lands of
the United States and those purchased by Meilrs.
Gorham and Phelps, which was refufedliim ; but
when Mr. Kllicot had arrived at the Genefee riv
er, he was overtaken by an express from Col.
Harris, who had sent him a pass, on which he re
turned to Niagara, where he received every mark
of refpe<ftful and polite attention—the Com
mander having in the mean time received orders
on the fubjecflt, from Lord Dorchester, to whom
application had been made by the President of
the United States.
NEW-YORK, JANUARY 2.
Members ofCongrefs now in this city : Senate,
Frefidentof the Senate.—Mr. Dalton.—Mr. John
son Mr. Schuyler.—Mr. King.—Mr. Izard.—•
Mr. Butler.—Mr. Langdon.—Mr. Wingate.—Mr.
Few.
REi'RESENTATrvES,Mr.Gilman.—Mr.Gerry.—
Mr. Lawrance. —Mr. Benfon.—Mr. Scott.—Mr.
Coles.—Mr. Brown.—Mr. Griffin.—Mr. Huger.
Mr. Smith, of South-Carolina.—Mr. White.—
Mr. Partridge—Mr. Tucker.—Mr. Goodhue.—
Mr. Thatcher.—Mr. Baldwin.
Mr. Otis, Secretary of the Senate.
Mr. Beckley, Clerk of the House.
The revolutions of time, give birth to the vo
lume of events which forms the general liiftory
of mankind. The contemplative mind traces the
progress of effe<fts from their caules, and marks
the invariable similitude between the series of
past and present times where the fame principles:
appear to (tamp the predominating features of
t}ie age. Empires commence, progress to matu
rity and then link into oblivion ; and this has
been so undeviatingly the course of things, that
those who contend that human nature is the fame
in all periods, have certainly the test of experi
ence on their fide. However the United States
according to some visionaries, are to exhibit a
new example to mankind. From the sublime
heights'of their political and literary attainments
they are to take a comprehensive view of all the
defects of humanity in all part ages, and having
the paflions and weaknefles incident to man under
the perfetf: controul of their reason, they are to
perpetuate their happiness and freedom, -without
the reftrair.ts of civil inftitutions,to the latest pe
riod of time. Those however, who view things
through a jufter medium, think otherwise; and
happy for our country, those who form a differ
ent estimate of human nature are at the head of
our affairs.
Public virtue is commonly a dormant principle
till great occafionscall it into exercise : Wife legi
slators therefore calculate their measures to touch
the more obvious spring of fit) intercft; and it is
happy for mankind, that the particular incereft of
individuals, and communities when properly pur
sued always conduces to the advantage of the ge
neral interest.
ARRI VALS.—NEWrYORK,
Thursday, Ship Charlotte, Lambert, Loivdoo, 405 days
Ship Christopher, Smith, Viocen^s.
Brig Brownlow, M'Mcaker, Dublin, 50 days.
Brig Dispatch, Lockhart, Antigua, 2Q days.
Schooner WUliog Maid, Wallace, Cape Francois.
Sloop Hiram, Surrijpafn, 48 days.
Sloop Friendship, Buruham, Savannah, 15 day
Sloop Liberty, Barker, Charldlon, 16 days.FROM A VIRGINIA PAPER.
To his EXCELLENCY the GOVERNOR of VIR
GINIA.
NEW-YORK, SETT. 28, I7So.
SIR, ' J
WE have long waited in anxious expectations,
of having it in our power to transmit effec
tual Amendments to the Constitution of the Uni
ted Stares, and it is with grief that we now fend
forward proportions inadequate to the purpose
of real and substantial Amendments, and so far
short of the wishes of our country. By perusing
the Journal of the Senate, your Excellency will
fee, that we did, in vain, bringto view the Amend
ments proposed by our Convention, and approv
ed by the Legislature. We shall transmit a com
plete set of the Journals of both Iloufes of Con
grefsto youraddrefs, which with a letter accom
panying them, we entreat your Excellency wil'.
have the geodnefs to lay before the Honorable
Legillature of the ensuing meeting.
We have the honor, of every sentiment of re
fpetft, to be, Sir, your Excellency's most obedie
and very humble servants,
RICHARD HENRY LEE
WILLIAM GRAYSON.
The HONORABLE the SPEAKER of the h SE
of REPRESENTATIVES in VIRGINI, '.
NEW-YORK, SEPT. 28, I /So.
SIR,
WK have now the honor of enclofiitg thr> pro
portion of Amendments to the Constitu
tion of the United States that has been fin illy a
greed upon by Congress. We can allure iu, Sir,
that nothing on our part has been on .ned, to
procure the luccefs of those radical am laments
proposed by the Convention, and appro\ dby the
Legillature of our Country, which as o consti
tuent we shall always deem it our duty with re
fpetl and reverence to obey. The Joui ial of the
Senate herewith transmitted, will at ,-,ce shew
exact and how unfortunate we have b< en in this
business. It is impollible for us not tc "ee the ne
ceflary tendency co conl'olidated en Ire in the
natural operation of the Conftitutio . if no fur
ther amended than as now propof ; and it is
equally impollible for us not to be pprehenfive
for civil liberty, when we know o no instance
in the records of hiitory, that fhe\ i people ru
led in freedom when fubje& to one ndivided go
vernment, and inhabiting aterrito y so extenlive
as that of the United States, and ,vhen it feeins
to us, the nature of man, and c things join to
prevent it. The impra<fticabil : yin s uc h cafe,
of carrying representation 011, ufficiently near
to the people for procuring the r confidence and
consequent obedience, compel a resort to fear,
resulting front great force ai . excessive power
in government. Confederate republics, where
the federal Hand is not pos iTed of absorbing
power, may permic the ex ence of freedom,
whillt it preserves union, ' ength, and fafety.
Such amendments therefore mayfeenreagainft
the annihilation of the State governments we
devoutly wHh to fee adopted.
If a persevering application to Congress from
the States that have desired such amendments,
fliouldlail of itsobjed:, we tire difpofedto think,
reasoning frqm causes to effe<£ts, that unless a
v dangerous apathy should invade the public mind,
it will not be many years before a constitutional
number of Legislatures will be found to demand
a Convention for the purpose.
We have sent a complete let of the Journals of
each House of Congress, and through the ap
pointed channel will be transmitted the Atfts that
have palled this feilion ; in these will be seen the
nature and extent of thejudiciary, the estimated
expences of the government, and the means so
far adopted for defraying the latter.
We beg, Sir, to be presented with all duty to
the Honorable House of Representatives, and to
allure you that we are with every sentiment of
refpetft and elteem, Sir, your most obedient, and
very humble servants,
RICHARD HENRY LEE.
WILLIAM GRAYSON.
In the HOUSE of DELEGATES, Monday the-]th
of December, 1 789.
RESOLVED, That a committee be appointed
to congratulate Thomas Jefjrfon, Esq. late
Minister Plenipotentiary from the United States,
to the Court of Versailles, 011 his return to his
native country, and to allure him of the esteem
which the House of Delegates bear for his cha
racter and public services.
Anda committee was appointed, of Mr. Henry
Mr. Lee, Mr. Zane, Mr. Ldmund Randolph, Mr.
Hopkins, Mr.iCorbin, Mr. Dawfon, Mr. Edward
Carringron, Mi'-King, Mr Johnson, Mr. Strother,
Mr. William £abel, jun. and Mr. Nicholas.
Exxrsuft from the Journal,
Telle, CHARLES HAY, C. H. D.
hi the DELEGATES, W sdnefdaj, the
<)(/' of December, 1 789.
7V/T*R. HENRY LEE reported from the com
mittee appointed to congratulate Thomas
Jifferfon, Efq; late Minister Plenipotentiary from
the United States, tothe Courtof Versailles, that
the committee had accordingly waited upon that
Gentleman, with the congratulations of the
Houfc, on his return to his native country ; to
which he had beenpleafed to return the follow
ing answer:
I RECEIVE, with humble gratitude, Gentle
nt.Mi, the congratulations of the Honorable the
House of Delegates on my return ; and I beg
leave, through you, to present them my thanks
nd dutiful refpedts. Could any circumstance
leighten my affection to my native country, it
.vould be the indulgence with which they view
my feeble efforts to serve it, and the esteem with
which they are pleased to honor me. I shall
'.ope to merit a continuance of their goodness,
i>y obeying the impulse of a zeal of which pub
lic good is the iirft objecft, and public esteem the
liigheft reward.
Permit me, Gentlemen, for a moment, to iepa
rate from my general thanks, the special ones I
owe to you, the organs of so flattering a commu
nication. Extrad: from the Journal,
Tefte, CHARLES HAY, C. H. D.
FROM THE POUC HKE EPS IE JOURNAL.
Found on the narrow road to Happiness, a
White Leather Pocket Book, with a gold
clasp in the shape of a heart, neatly bound with
the ldve of mankind—containing the form of the
new Conftiturion, a proclamation for Tliankf
giving, a short Prayer for the restoration of peace
to our Allies, Mrs. W—h—n's portrait, the
miniature of America, with many ufeful observa
tions on economy and induftry.—lt also contain
ed some prudent invetftives against the mutability
of fafliion, the vice of intemperance, and the
absurdity of unmeaning compliments. It is sup
posed said pocket book wasdropt for the benefit
of the thoughtless croud by the consort of the
amiable lady above mentioned.
PROCEEDINGS OF CONGRESS.
ABSTRACT of JOURNAL of the first SESSION
of the SENATE oj the UNITED STATES.
TUESDAY, August 1 8.
PROCEEDED in a second reading of the bill, entitled," Ar| ft
providing for the expenles which may attend negotiations or
treaties with the Indian Tribes, and the appointment of Commis
sioners for managing the fame"—
On motion, to flrike out" eight dollars," from the clause pro
viding tor the compensation to the Commiflioners, and insert,
" five dollars," in line Bth, it passed in the negative.
On motion, to insert after, " eight dollars per day," "at the
discretion of the Prefiderft," it passed in the negative.
Onmolion, upon tbe compensation tqthe Commiflioners, to
flrike out " eight dollars," and Insert " fix dollars," It passed in
the negative.
Ordered, that the rules of the House be fofardifpenfed with, as
that the said bill (hail have a third reading at this time.
On motion, to strike out in line 3d, " forty;" and insert "twen
ty," in ordertheieby to limit thefumto be expended in negoti
ating a treaty with the Indian tribes, to twenty thousand dollars
inllcad of forty thousand,
The yeas and nays being required by one fifth of the Senators
present, were as follows:
YEAS. Mr. Carroll, Mr. Dalton, Mr. Ellfworth, Mr. Elmer,
Mr. Henry, Mr. Johnson, Mr. King, Langdon, Mr. Read, Mr.
Schuyler, Mr. Strong, Mr. Wingate. 12.
NAYS. Mr. Butler, Mr. Few, Mr. Gunn, Mr. Lee Mr. Mac
lay, Mr. Morris. 7.
So it passed in the Affirmative.
On motion, that it be resolved, That Congress will make pro
vision for the discharging of any expenses that may be incurred
by such military arrangements, as the President of the United
States may think proper to make, for the purpose of protesting
the citizens of Georgia from the depredations of the Creek Indi
ans, ftiould peace not take place with them, or Ihould they, hav
ing agreed to a peacc, violate the fame, —And on motion for the
pietious question, to wit: lt Shall the main question now be put ?"
It passed in the negative!
And on the queltion upon the bill, as it was, resolved to concur
therein with the amendment.
The Senate proceeded in a third reading of the bill entitled,
" An ast for the punifbment of certain crimes againftthe United
States end after progrels, Adjourned.
WEDNESDAY, August 19.
Agreeably to the order of the day, the Senate proceeded to the
consideration of a resolve oi the House of ReprefentativeSj of the
10th of August, providing, " Tiiatthe Survey directed by Con
gress, in their ast of June the 6th, 1788, be made and returned
to the Secretary of the Treasury without dtlay; and that the Pre
sident of the United States be requested to appoint a fit person to
complete the fame, who /Hall be allowed five dollars per day
whilst aftuallv employed in the said service, with the expenses nel
ceffai ilv attending the execution thereof"—And on motion,
" That the consideration of the resolution be poftponcd to such
time in the nextScffion of Congress, as that the Legislature of the
State o! New-York may be afforded an opportunity of interpofinu
then objections," it passed inthe negative.
And on the main question,
Resolved, The Senate do concur inthefaid resolution
A message Irom the Iloul'e of Reprefentatrves, info, nnng the Se
nate, that the Houfo had concurred in their amendment proposed
to the bill, entitled, " An ast providing for the expenses which
may attend negotiations 01 treaties with the Indian tribes, and
the appointment of Commiflioners for managingthe fame."
Adjourned.
SATURDAY, August 25.
The memorial of John Cox, and others, citizens of the State of
Nrw-Jerfey and of the State of Pennsylvania, praying that the fu
ture Scat of Government might be eftablilhed on the banks of the
Delaware,and proposing a cession of a traftof land ten miles square,
was read, and together with a draught of the said trait, was
laid on the table for consideration.
MONDAY, August 24.
Proceeded in the executive business before the Senate.
Adjourned.
TUESDAY, August 25.
Mr. Maclay. preferHed a draughtof ten miles square, including
the borough of Lancaster, with a letter containing adefciiptioh ot
the Line, fiom Eilu aid Hand, directed to the Hon. Robert Mor
ris and the Hon. William Maclay ; Mr. Maclay likewise nomi
nated Wright's fecrv, on the Sufquehailnah; Y«rk-Town, weft of
the Sufquehannah ; Carlisle, weft of the Sufquehannah; Harrif
burgh. on the Sufquehannah ; Reading, on the Schuylkill, and
Germantownin the neighborhood of Philadelphia, as different
places in Pennsylvania, which had been proposed tor the perma
nent feat of government of the United States.
I he letter being read, was, together with the draught, ordered
to lie lor consideration
(To be continued.)
PROPOSAL,
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
memoirs
BLOOMSGROVE FAMILY.
In a SERIES of LETTERS from a gentleman in New-Enohnd
to a refpe&able citizen ot Philadelphia.
CONTAINING,
Sentiments on a MODE of DOMESTIC EDUCATION, Wed
to the present state ot Society, Government and Manners in the
United States, and on the Importance and Dignity of the Female
Character.
INTERSPERSED WITH A
VARIETY of interesting ANECDOTES.
CONDITIONS.
They will be printed on a gopd paper and type—neatlv bound
andJcttered, in two volumes, 111110. and delivered to fubferibers
at three quarters ol a dollar per volume.
{f3* These Momoirs are dedicated to Mrs. Washington, by
kerptrmiffivn. Having seen the manuscripts, and approved the plan,
She heartily wishes that ev.ery laudable effort to improve the
" mode of education in this country may be attended with merit.
" ed fucCefs." _
(P3" FROM the lUi-rary chara&er of the reputed author o/
the above work, and a tahleof contents lett with the printer here
of, being eighty-three letteis on the moil interfiling fubje&s of
education, lile and manners, it is cxpe&ed thele Memoirs will
prove a very valuable and intereflin'g performance.
Subjcripttcns received by the Editor, at his office, \nd letters (M
paid) duly all niedto.
ADVERTISEMENT.
EXTRACTS FROM THE JOURNAL OF THE OHIO COMPANY.
WHEREAS, in the opinion of the Agents, it is very much
for the mtereft of the proprietors at large, that ail the
lands of the purchase (hould be divided and allotted as immedi
ately as may be—And in order to accommodate them generally
by the option of claflingas they may think, proper, and drawing
their rights or (hares (where they may polTefs more than one)
either together in contiguity, or by detaching and annexing them
to diitinftchflcsor divisions (at their own election) to give them
the greater chance for variety in foil and fituation—lt is unani
moudy resolved.That as foonas the exploring committee (hall have
appropriated the lands for donation fettlements,in quantity fuffici
cnt for all the proprietors,Wi nth rop Sarcent,Joseph Gi ll
man, and Return J. Meigs, Esquires, whoare herebyappoint
ed a committee for that purpose.shall immeciately make out,upon
a large scale.a complete map or plan of the whole purchase from the
bell information,which they may be then able to obtain,expreflinu
all the lands of the eight acre, three acre, city lots and commons?
one hundred and sixty acre, and donation lots, the reserved lots
ol Congress, school lots, and lots appropriated for religious pur
poles—alfo, the two townlhips given by Congress for an universi
ty.and the towns or situations hn towns to be reserved by the com
pany for a future allotment.—That, all the residuary lands ihall
be, by them, the said committee of three, divided and numbered
upon paper, into forty equal grand divisions of twenty-five (hares
each, as like in quality as may be: That each grand divifiun be
divided into five sub-divisions of five shares each, and each sub
division into feftions of Tingle [hares That as soon as the map
or plan is completed, the agents will form 01 class their fubferib
ers (who Ihall not previously class themfelvcs) by feftions or finele
Oiares, into sub-divisions of five, and grand divisions of twenty
five, arid immediately proceed to drawing Toy lot soT said lands
by grand divisions, sub-divisions and feftions : That in all
draughts of sub-divisions (into feftions) which may be madeup of
proprietors,holding four,three, or two and single (liares.it Ihall be
the usage for the greatest"proprietor, or holder of the greatest
number of (hares, to take his lands in contiguity, by lot, either in
the southern or northern part of th, sub-division, where thev (hall
be numbered from north to south, and in the western or eastern
(by lot also) where they may be numbered from weft to east ; and
where sub-divisions maybe made up of two proprietors of'two
shares each, and one of one (hare, the two greatest proprie
tors (hall receive their feftions, by lot, either in the southern or
western part of the sub-division. Rcfolved, That the before na
med committee, t>e direded to prepare the names and numbers,
and make all the neceflary arrangements for the intended draught:
That previous to the drawing for this ultimate grand division of
lands, there (hall be returns of the proprietors, as they may be
classed by the agents (or otherwise) lodged in the Secretary's office,
and it is recommended in all cases to consult the inclinations and
interests of the proprietors in the order of classing.
Rcfolved, That the agents will give public notice of the time and
place of drawing, and that there be twoperfonsno ways interelt
ed in the draughts, who (hall be fwornto the faithfully drawing
out the names and (lumbers from the boxes, and who alone (hall
be employed in this business for the draught of grand divisions,
sub-divisions, and fe&ions.
■Resolved, That the Secretary cause thfe foregoing resolutions to
be published in the newspapers of K'ew-York, and the New
England States ; to the end that the proprietors at large may have
the option of classing themfelvcs as they may think proper : And
they are hereby requested so to do, and to express themfel' s
upon this fubjelf, either to their refpeftive agents, or by inforn -
tion in writing addressed to, and to be lodged with the Secretary ,
at his office in the city of Marietta,previous to the firftMui\day of
March, 1790 —Upon which day it is expefled the division will
take place. W I NTHROP SARGENT,
* Secretary to the Ohio Company.
Marietta, 3d November, 1789.
ADVERTISEMENT.
THE Gazette of the United States circulates in every part of
the Union—being honored by fuhferibers in Georqiq, South and North
Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, Pennsylvania, New-Jcrfev t
New-York, Connecticut, Rhode-lfland, Majfachufetts, New-Hampshire,
and Dijlrifl of Maine, Canada, Europe, and the Wefi Indies. This ex
ten five circulation renders it a proper vehicle for Advertisements
of a general, commercial and governmental import:—By the particular
desire and advice, therefore, of a number of its patrons, this paper
will be open for the reception of aivertifements of the above description ;
which as they will convey intelligence of an interejling nature, the Edi
tor hopes their mfcrtion will meet the'approbation of his friends in
general. Should the number at any time amount to more than a page in
the : Gazette, they will be given in a Supplement.
JOHN FENNO.
New-York, Nov. 28. 1789.
Publifhedby JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maiden-
Lans, neartheOjzvcgQ-Markct t New-York.—£3dol. fr.anr