[No. LXXVIII. j
THE TABLET.
No. LXXVIII.
" People never misapply their economy so muik t as
when they make mean provision for the education oj
children."
THE essay, contained in this aild the two fol
lowing numbers of the Tablet, points out
foine of the most ui'ual defeats of country schools.
It was written by ayoung gentleman, some years
ago, who in travelling through the country saw,
in a very forcible light, the evils he has describ
ed. The author calls it one of his juvenile per
formances ; but the remarks are judicious, and
the expressions clear and pointed. It is hoped it
will prove entertaining to the reader.
" THOUGH man is faidtohold the lowest rank
in the intellectual system, he is still supposed to
have a foul, wbofe powers are susceptible of end
less progressive improvement. We come into the
world with minds totally unfurnilhed with ideas ;
but, like white paper, capable of receiving and
retaining any notions, good or bad, which edu
cation or accident firft happens to impress. The
perverse actions of men demonstrate the danger
of imbibing wrong ideas and forming bad habits,
and the difficulty of correcting or removing them
afterwards. This consideration fliould make
those who superintend the education of children,
particularly cautious that their firft instruCtions
fliould be the best. To cultivate the faculties
of the human mind, and to enlarge and improve
its powers has ever been considered, by the ci
vilized parr of mankind, as an objed: of the ut
inoft concern. The general institution of schools
in this country is a full proof that its inhabitants
are convinced of their utility and importance.
But from fear of expence, from want of inter
est, from careleflnefs, from ignorance, or from
some other causes, it happens that most of the
schools amongst us are under very defective re
gulations. They are placed on so difadvan-
a footing, that the design of parents,
which is to give their children the best education
with the least expence, is unfortunately defeat
ed. Having attentively observed the defeats
which attend the common method of education,
and being fully convinced that much money is
expended in that way to little effeCt, I am indu
ced to make a few remarks on the fubjed. My
observations are calculated more particularly for
the common schools in the country.
In the firft place, I would oblerve that the
houses built tor fchoois are very inconvenient,
very expenlive and ill adapted to answer the end
for which they are intended. The design of an
house seems to be to shelter us from the inclemen
cy of the weather ; and one would think, that
to ere«ft a building that would not answer this
purpose, is to mifpend time and to lavish away
money. But the school-houses in the country are,
some of them at least, such wretched thin (hells,
that in extreme weather, the largest fire that can
be built in them will not render children com
fortable, at any distance from it. Besides, the
extraordinary quantity of wood, which inuft ne
cefTarily be consumed, in such houses, is a consi
deration that ought to have influence in a coun
tjy, where wood is in so great demand. There
is another ill confeqnence of more importance,
though less attended to by people in general ;
which is, that such schools are less beneficial to the
children. If the master keeps thdni at their bu
linefs, where they ought to be kept, at a distance
from the fire, they fit shivering with cold and
never look on a book ; and if he permits them
to croud round the fire, they will puffi andabufe
each other, and the master's ears will be ftnnned
with the din of endless complaints. The molt
that a master can do, at such a time, is to prevent
andredrefs these petty injuries ; and he may think
himfelf happy to do that to fatisfaCtion. In such
an house, where a child has 110 higher ambition
than to get warm, it is folly to expeCt he will re
ceive much benefit. As parents fend their chil
dren to school for some other purpose than mere
ly to keep warm, the house should be so comfor
table, that they can have 110 need to approach
the fire. A master might than govern them with
much less difficulty, and his instruCtions would
be attended with better success. Brick houses are
muchtobeprefered, not only as they are cooler in
summer, and warmer in winter, but because they
are less liable to accident and damage from mis
chievous boys.
Children fliould likewise be furnifhed with
drawers, locks and keys, where they might lay
their books and papers in fafety : Otherwise they
will be obliged, as is too much the cafe, to throw
them down upon a table or a bench, where they
may be undefignedly bruflied off, trodden on,
md tore to pieces. When I mention drawers, 1
A ] U K. D A Y January 9, 1790.
iuppofe that children have books at i'chool ; for
ihofe that have none will have no need of draw
erS' . Sculling but the absolute impossibility of
obtaining books will render negligence in this
relpe<fl excufeable. How odd does it appear to
fend a child to learn to read, without a book, in
expectation that he will be furnifhed by others !
Would not a man appear exceedingly ridiculous
and foolifh, who should go into the field to work
without tools ? And if he fliould go, in expecta
tion that his neighbor would furnifn him, I dare
fay there is not a person who would not laugh at
him.
It is an ill judged piece of economy to supply
children wirli implements for writing, that are
bad or indifferent. Coarse paper, pale ink and
flawy quills are the common fare of lads, while
they are learning to write. The expence in the
firft instance is lessened by such pitiful provilion
of materials ; but they are dearest in the end,
even if it should be practicable to make improve
ment in writing, under such disadvantages. This
pratftice should not be continued, but the articles
used at schools should be the bell that can be pro
cured. The pupil should have nothing to dis
courage him ; and I appeal to every pevfon who
is accustomed to writing, how vexatious it is to
write with a bad apparatus. The tables used at
schools in general are too low, and they are often
so rough that paper cannot be kept fmooili.
This is another inconvenience that hinders the
ill fated lad from making progress. It will oc
cur to every person, who has tried the experi
ment, that writing-delks are preferable to tables.
1 aper, lying horizontally, txpofes the person,
who writes, to an aukward situation, and if this
mode is persisted in, by one who writes much, it
will injure his health. Such remarks may apper
trivial, but they are of much greater importance,
than will, at firft view, be imagined.
(To be continued.)
What tones, when genius strikes the lyre !
ExtraA from the New-Year's niijb of the Carrier of
the American Mercury. [Hartford.]
t! T?AIR Liberty, whose gentle sway
J/ First blest these ihores, lias crofs'd the Cca,
" To visit Gallia, and inflame,
" Her fonj their ancient rights to claim.
" From realm to realm Ihe still lhall fly,
" As lightning [hoots across the Iky,
And tyrants herjuft empire own,
11 And at her teet lubmit their crown.
" Go, tell your country, (he is still
*' Heaven's care ; and happy, if the will
" Hut all mud firft their (lation fix,
I N'or craze their (kulls with politics ;
" His proper calling each pursue,
" And thus his worth and wisdom Ihcw.
" Let Tailors tempt the watery main.
" And peasants urge the foil for gain ;
'' The merchant at his counter stand ;
" The artist keep his tools in hand ;
II Thecobler ply his lajl and atul;
" To patch old kettles tinkers bawl ;
u Smiths at the forge their temples rub ;
" The cooper rattle round his tub ;
" Aftrouomers makes almanacks ;
" And fills and purges leave to quacks j
11 Wife pedagogues their pupils teach,
11 The parson be content to preach.
FROM TIIE GEORGIA GAZETTE.
THE FEDERAL OATH.
" IA. B. do solemnly fuisar or affirm) that 1
willfupport the Constitution of the United States."
FEDERAL OATH.
THIS oath is very simple, and yet there is a
hue and cry railed against it. Whether igna
ranct or design generated the objection I know not.
[t is, however, objecfted, that " this oath obliges
[lie oath-taker to comply with and obey alt the
laws of Congress, although some of those very
laws may be so framed as to deprive the citizens
of their breeches and petticoats, and other civil
rights and privileges to which th<*y have a natural
or a federal claim."
This is so strange a sophisticated inversion of
the words of the oath that fomerhing besides ig
norance appears to have had afliarein the inver
sion ; for their true intent and meaning do not
pass Wcomprehenfion. The Constitution of the
States, and the laws of their Congress. are inherent
ly, as different as the aforefaid articles of dress ;
and, as decency moll politively commands all her
fubjedts to cover their nakedness, so does this
oath positively oblige all Federalists (who take
it) to cxpofe the nakedness of that law which
has anything in it contrary to the Constitution.
Should it ever, unhappily be the curse of these
States, to have a Congress, weak and wicked
enough to enatft laws everfive of one single lec
tion, or even clause of the Constitution, the Mem
bers of that Congress, by enabling such laws, will
betray the great trnft reposed in thein by their
fellow citizens, and consequently become traitor!
[Publijhed on JVednefday and Saturday.]
to the States. Can Jolly conceive, or credulity be
lieve, that this oath enjoins obedience or support
to such laws ! As well may you believe that the
robber, who knocked you down, and took your
money, did the one to relieve you from care, and
the other to cure you of the headach.
We /hall here, perhaps be told of the excellen
cies of Jealousy, which (fay its advocates) is a
certain prefervarive of our liberty, and has done
such great things for our political welfare, that
it is boldly asked, What has it not done ?
Be it even so, my good trumpeters ; but, in run.
ning over the beadroll of you>." guardian's virtues,
you forget, or pass unnoticed, loine of her molt
remarkable achievements.
This patro-theos, or tutelar faint, of yours,
had well nigh wrested Independence from the
States : They were floating,in atempeftuous sea,
011 the last plank of the wreck, and, to prevent
finking, they were forced to solicit aid from their
new alliance : By this aid, it is true, they were
enabled to regain the rtiore of fafety ; but the re
quisition left a foul stain* upon the States ; be
cause, in the beginning, an army fufttcient for the
great pili poses of the Union might have been rai
led, and kept complete to the end of the war :
But, it seems, this tender eyed guardian of our
liberty could not behold a [landing army !
Such, Jealoufy,are thy mighty works i for which
let the United States extol thy glorious name, and
the inhabitants thereof obey thy wife commands ?
From tliefe premises, then; this conclusion is
clear, that jealousy is an excellent centinel, but a very
bad commandant. Arm it, then, as a centinel ought
to be armed, at all points ; but make it forever
obedient to the orders of Reason, which the SU
GREAT PREME hath been pleased to make
Commander in Chief in the Republic of Man.—
If you fupercede, or disobey great comman
der, instead of laurels you will secure to your
selves disgrace, perhaps ruin.
In the delightful realms of Hymen, if Jealousy
be ever admitted, it turns to bitternefa the choi
cest sweets, poisons the delicious banquet, and
revels in mifcliieflike a devil unchained : So like
wise, in the world of politics, if it ever gain the
ascendant, it throws every thing into a ferment,
destroys mutual confidence, ana rages like Luci
fer, with all his imps at his heels.
The dignity, the order, the happiness, of such
a government, are obvious ; and, if they enchant
the wife and good, where lies the wonder ?
But tho ill-founded jealousy, or jealousy con
trary to reason, should be considered, as in fa(ft it
is, the fruitful source of evil, yet it is by no
means prudent or fafe to repose on the pillar of
f'ecurity, when the ax is laid to the root.
The advice of Apollo, " All extremes avoid,"f
merits general adoption ; though filort, it is com*
prehenlive,and applies to every cafe ; for all ex
tremes are vicious, and there are certain boun
daries on neither fide of which is it pollible to a -
void error.f It is the region of Folly, and amidst
the infinite variety of her slower-strewed paths
there is not one in which the man of rectitude
can walk.
Such a country as this of Folly's, is that in
which Jealousy reigns supreme : Yet this differ
ence should be ■ bferveJ : In the suite of Folly,
Malice is but rarely seen ; but, in the suite of Jea
lousy, theie are numberless fpiritsas malicious as
old Belzebub can make them.
Scorn then, my countrymen, to commit your
selves to such a ruler: Consult Reafen, and hear
ken to the voice of Experience. A Conttitution
all-perfedt and complete is not to be expecfted,
and aLegiflature instantly reprobate toevery good
work, for which it was created a Legislature, is
not to be apprehended : Like the Lindamira In
damora of Scriblerus, they are both "ov? of nature.
But suppose the worlt, however improbable it
may be ; suppose that, contiary to the usual pro
gress in villainy, you should have a Legislature
that shall violate their oaths as soon as taken,
and pounce with the rapidity of an eagle upon
your precious quarry, yet why despair of the
Commonwealth ? Such conducfl might and should
alarm you : But, if you will be but just to your
selves, I mean, if you will be but true to your
oath, much mifchief they cannot do to the States ;
for, you being their political creators, you have
in your own hands an effe&ual remedy : You can
clap an extinguisher upon them, and put them out.
A FEDERALIST.
NOTES.
* This remark applies only to the troop! of France :
Her ships were essential ; for a naval force it was not
in the power of the States to ejiablifh.
A (landing army ! IVas there ever a more absurd
idea conceived even by Folly ? It was to Hand only
during the conflict, and that, every one knows, u ne
cessary to in fur: success.
f Medio tutiffimus ibis. Ovid.
i. Eft modus in rebus. Suntctrti denique fines y !?c.EUROPE.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
Paris, Ofiober 17.
ON WednefJay the 14th, a deputation from
the Jews of Alsace and Lorraine desired to
be heard 011 the peifecutions to which they are
fubjeifl; and after fame debate, being admitted
to the bar, prefentedthe following
ADDRESS.
" Gentlemen,
" IT is in the name of the eternal author of
justice, and of truth ; in the name of that God,
who, by giving to all the fame rights, hath pre
scribed to all the fame duties ; in the name of
humanity, outraged for so many ages, by the ig
nominious treatment which the unfortunate de
fendants of a people the nioftantient of all have
undergone, iu almost every country 011 earth, that
we this day come to conjure you to vouchfafe to
take their deplorable deltiny into conlideratioi\.
"Every whereperfecuted, everywhere delpif
ed, and though always held in fubjet'tion, never
rebellious ; among all nations, objects of indig
nation and contempt, though del'erving tolera
tion and pity—the Jews whom we represent at
your feet, have ventured to hope, that, in the
niidft of your important labours, you willnotre
jecft their prayei-s, you will not disdain their com
plaints ; that you will listen with some degree of
feeling, to the timid remonstrances which they
dare to form iu the bosom of that profound hu
miliation in which they are buried.
" We should waste your time, gentlemen, by
enlarging on the nature and jultice of our claims.
They are recorded in the memorials which we
have lubmitted to your infpedtion.
" May we be indebted to you for an exiltence,
less miserable than that to which we are con
demned ! May the veil of obloquy, which hath
covered us so long, be at length rent from our
heads ! May men look upon us as their brethren !
May that divine charity which is so particularly
recommended to you, extend also to us ! May a
complete reform take place in the ignominious
institutions by which weave enslaved ; and may
this reform,hitherto so in effectually defired,which
, we now solicit with tears in our eyes, be the work
of your labor, the gift of your country !"
The President returned for answer :
" THE grand principles to which you appeal
in support of your demands, do not permit the
Aflembly to hear them with unconcern. The
Aflembly will confideryour request, and be hap
py to restore your brethren to tranquility and
happiness ; and of this you may inform those
whom you represent."
The committee of enquiry reported, that ;hey
had found no proof of the charges a ;.in(t the
Baron de Bezenval, and moved that he be dif
cliarged. The motion meeting witli oppoficion,
the Duke de Liancourt offered to pledge hiinfelf
for the Baron's appearing to take his trial, if re
quired.
M. de Mirabeau proposed appointing a new
committee, to collect the proofs against the pri
soner. which v ere fufllcient to support a charge
of high crimes against him, in order that he
might be tried by the new tribunal, to be eftab
li/hed by the constitution. But the number of
persons in custody for similar offences, andtheex
penceo'f guarding the Baron, induced the Aflem
bly to resolve,
" That the Chateht of Paris shall be authorised
provisionally, to institute and prosecute to judg
ment, criminal procefles against all persons ac
cused of, or in custody for, treason."
LONDON, Nov. j.
In consequence of the number ofprifonei s held
in custody iu the goals of Paris, for various crimes,
M. de la Fayette made a virtuous and seasonable
attempt to reform the criminal process in favor
of the culprits. At his instance the representa
tives of the Commons of Paris sent a deputation
to the National Alfembly, requesting them to con
firm a relblution, which they had come to for
granting the accused the right of cliufing their
own counfcl—that the prosecution should be pub
lic—that persons accused should have the right of
furnifliing proofs of their innocence ; and that
sentence should be given with the consent of a ma
jority of the Judges on the bench. The Nation
al Aflembly referred this application to a com
mittee of seven.
An extraordinary mode of depredation was
prac r tifeda few evenings fmce upon a gentleman
that was going through Stepney-fields between
fix and seven o'clock. He was accosted by aper
fon of genteel address by his moving off his hat,
and telling him that as he believed that the trifle
he lent him at the last Epsom races, had flipped
his memory, he should thank him now to repay
it. The gentleman, struck with surprise, protest
ed that he had never been there ! but was prevent
ed from proceeding, by the coming up of another
confederate, to whom, as the firlt appealed, he
swore he remembered the Gentleman and the
circumstance perfectly well, when two other fhab
by looking fellows coining up likewise, the gen
tleman being intimidated, thought it prudent to
fay he recollected fometliing of the debt, which
they being plealed to fay was three guineas and
a half, lie fufFered them to take it within a tew
(killings, [all he had about him] after which,
wilhinghim a good evening.
A manuscript, said to be found in the Baflile,
aflerts, that the man with the iron mask, was
Lewis de Bourbon, Count de Vermandois, born
the 2d Ocflo. 1667, of the Duchess of la Valliere.
A Hint.—A friend to humanity begs to inform
the public, that in the dangerous cafe of pins
swallowed by accident, swallowing one egg, un
drefTed, and in the course of an hour after ano
ther, is an infallible remedy for carrying oft the
pins, if done immediately after they have been
swallowed, i. e. before the pins have worked
tliemfelves into the coats of the stomach.
The King of the Two Sicilies, the oldest Mo
narch in Europe, is yet the youngest man in it
who wears a crown, except Selim 11 Id. and Lewis
XVI. He has been a King since the year 1 759, and
was born in 1 751, so thai he has worn a crown
ever since he was eight years old.
His father, the late King of Spain, governed
more countries successively, than any Prince that
ever lived before him. He was Sovereign of Par
ma, and ceded it to his brother, Don Philip.
He was Sovereign to Tufcany, and ceded it to
the Emperor.
He was Sovereign of the Two Sicilies, when his
eldest brother Ferdinand VI. King of Spain, died
without ifliie ; theSpanifh Monarchy thus devolv
ed upon King Charles, who gave his two king
doms of Naples and Sicily to his third son, Ferdi
nand, thenachild, who uow reigns over them.
The prefentKing of the Two Sicilies had two
elder brothers, Don Philip, Duke of Calabria,
who being an ideot, was declared incapable of in
heriting his father's dominions.
And DonCarlos, now KingofSpain, whom the
late King, his father, took with him from Naples
to Spain, created Prince of Afturias, and declared
Heir Apparent to theSpanifh Monarchy, to which
Providence was pleased to make him lately suc
ceed.
When the Auftrians took pofleffion of the fort
refsof Belgrade, they found 1280 of the garrison
dead, who had been killed in the course of the
three preceding days, but whom the garrison had
not time to bury. During the fame period 1700
of the Turks were drowned.
Good men, in all ages, have 6een indued with a
prophetic spirit !
HOUSE OF COMMONS, Dec. 21, 1775.
LONDON.
LORD NORTH'S PROHIBITORY BILL.
MR. HARTJ.EY.
Q
U IR, upon this pause which is offered to you
by the return of this bill from the Lords, I con
fefs that I feel a kind of superstition to wish for
one lait word to deprecate the fatal blow, and
that our unremitted oppofitionandremonftrance
from the firft to the very last stage of this bill may
remain as a memorial, thatfomeof us, atleaft, la
ment this fatal separation of America with an af
fectionate regret. We are overpowered by num
bers, and all our entreaties and remonstrances are
in vain. An inflexible majority in Parliament
have now declared all America to bean indepen
dent hostile State. Disputes originally between
administration, and America, are become, thro
ministerial influence, the ground of a parliamen
tary war with America. The fenfeof the nation
is not with that war, and I trust it never will be.
However speaking in Parliament to ministers as
they seem determined to drive all things to ex
tremities, I mult alk whether you are to expedt
that while you burn their towns, take ordeftroy
their ihips, and property, they will set with their
arms folded, or whether they will not be driven
to repel injury by injury. You have found their
acftive powers of defence by the experience of the
last campaign, when by your orders the shedding
of the fiift civil blood was precipitated on the fa
tal 19th of April, before your pretended concil
iatory motion could be proposed to any of the
American aflemblies ? Why were you found un
guarded i» Canada ? Two regiments are taken
prisoners. Your officers are hostages, and yet
you procced in this unjust and unnatural war,
with fire, sword, and rapine. What farther hos
tages may fall into their hands at Boston, or what
blood of our fellow fubjccls may be shed there, I
contemplate with horror. I dread some fatal
event there. Public report threatens. When
the provincials shall of their late and
lult petition, and wlien tliey lee all profpetfl of
peace become desperate, what can you expe<ft but
that they should exert every power to destroy
your land forces in America during the severity
of the winter, before you can support or relieve
them. Who will be answerable for these things.-
When this bill of rapine, which now lies before
you gets to them, they will set themselves to re
taliate upon your fleet. Your land force has been
disgraced and annihilated in the firft campaign,
notwithstanding all your boastings ; are we not
then to expedt, that those ministers of vengeance
who shall prefson a naval war with America, (hall
be responsible to their country, for the conse
quences of their head-strong and wilful measures,
if the navy of this country should be brought to
disgrace and defeat ? Weigh the confequencesr.
If you fend large ships they will not be able to acft.
Iffmall ones may they not be overpowered ?—
Confiderthe diftanceof your operations. Every
port in America will be a Dunkirk to you. We
know their /kill and bravery as privateers in the
last war. In any cafe you are laying the founda
tion of an hostile marine in America, which, has
been, and ought to be the source of the marine of
Great-Britain.
I cannot bean adviser, or a well-vrifher to any
of the vindiiftive operations of the adminifh ation
against America, because I think the cause unjust ;
but at the fame time I niuft be equally earnest to
secure British property and interests from destruc
tion ; neither a vidlory of Great-Britain over
America nor of America over Great-Britain can
afford to us any matter of triumph. Both are
equally deftrudtive. If nothing can abate your
fury against the Americans in this ministerial
war, wefhall expetfi at least that you should guard
our own vulnerable parts. Are you guarded at
Newfoundland ? Are you prepared against any
expedition of retaliation if the provincials should
meditate any thing to the deftruftion of your
fifheries there ?
Administration have been the aggreflors in
every thing, step by step. By this fatal bill of
separation you now declare the Americans to be
enemies in form, therefore it is yourselves that
force upon them the rights of enemies. You
must now be responsible to your country for the
events of your own war, to which they have
been forelucftant and you so precipitate. When
this country shall come to open its eyes, to fee
and feel the consequences, they will know of
whom to require an account. Sir, I shall now
move you, inlleadof agreeing to the amendments
of the Lords, to adjourn the consideration of
them for fix months ; I confefs with very little
hopes of averting this bill, but from a supersti
tious feeling in my mind, to perform the last ce
remonial office of affection and everlasting fare
wel to peace, and to America. The fate of Ame
rica is cast. You may bruise its heel but you
cannot crush its head. It will revive again. The
new world it before them. Liberty is theirs.
They have pofleflion of a free government, their
birth-right and inheritance, derived to them
from their parent state, which the hand of vio
lence cannot wrest from them. If you will cast
them off, my last wish is to them ; may they go
and prosper. When the final period of this
once happy country ihall overtake ourselves, ei
ther through tumult or tyranny, may another
Phoenix rife out of our ashes !
When
The bird of wonder dies, the maiden Phoenix,
Her alhes new'create another heir,
As great in admiration as herfelf.
So (halt (he leave her bleffednefstoone,
(When Heav'n shall call her from this cloud of darkness)
Who from the sacred ashes of her honor,
Shall ftarlike rife, as great in fame as Ihe was,
And so (land fix'd. Peace, plenty, truth, love, terror,
That were the servants of this chosen infant,
Shall then be his, and like the vine grow round him*
Wher'er the bright fun of heav'n shall ihiue,
His honor, and the greatness of his name
Shall be, and make new nations. He (hall flourifh,
And like the mountain cedar, reach his branches
To all the plains about him. Children's children
Shall fee this and bless Heav'n.NEW-YORK, January g, 178 J.
CONGRESS.
JASUARY 6.
IN addition to the Members of Senate, mentioned in our last,
*Mr Maclay, of Pennsylvania, being arrived, a quorum of the
h -nate was formed. A fufficient number of the Members of the
House ot Reprefcntatives, were also in town; but through the in
difpolition of one of the gentlemen, they did not proceed to bull
nefs. 3nd adjourned.
January 7.
Mr. Ellfworth, and Mr. Patterfon, of the Senate, arrived and
took their feats.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
Mr. Wadfworth, Mr. Sturgis, Mr. Van Ranfellaer, Mr. Carrol,
and Mi. Matthews, appeared and took their feats.
A meflage was tent to rhe Senate, informing them that a quorum
of the House was now assembled.
Mr. Boudinot, Mr. Sherman, snd Mr. White, were appointed a
committee to report the unfinlfhed business of the lalt felCon.
A resolution was received froln the Senate, by which Mr. Strong
and Mr. Izard isappomted a committee on their part, to wait on,
and inform the President of the United States, that the two Houses
of Con"refs are now formed, and request to know oi him, what
time he"will aflign to meet them in the Senate Chamber, to lay be
fore them the business he has to communicate. The House con
curred in this resolution, and appointed Mr. Gilman, Mr. Ames,
and Mr. Seney, a Committee on their part.
On notion, Rcfolved, that two Chaplains of different denomi
nations, be elected for the present fcflion—one by each Houle, to
interchange weekly. ,
Mr Gilman of the committee appointed to wait on t.ie . reli
dent informed the house that the President had alligned Tomor
row 11 o'clock to meet, and address both Houses of CongreTs,
in the Senate Chamber. Adjourned to half after 10 oVlock, to
morrow morning.
Janu a* v 8.
Mr. Wynkoop appeared this day, and took his feat.
The House being assembled, adjourned to the Senate Cham
ber At ti o'clock, THE PRESIDENT of the United States,
attended by his Aids, and Secretary, was received by the two
Houses of Congress in the Senate Chamber, when he was pleased
t.) make the following SPEECH :
FELLOW-CITIZENS of the SENATE, and
HOUSE 0/ REPRESENTATIVES.
I EMBRACE with great fatisi'acftion the oppor
tunity, which now presents itfelf, of congra
tulating you on the present favorable prospects of
our public affairs. The recent accession of the
important state of North-Carolina to the Conui
tution of the United States (of which official in
formation has been received)— the rising credit
and refpelability of our country—the general
andincreafinggood-will towards the government
of the union, and the concord, peace and plen
ty, with which we areblefled, are circumstances,
auVpicious, in an eminent degree to our national
prosperity. '
In resuming your confutations for the general
good, you cannot but derive encouragement from
the reflexion, that the measures of the last ses
sion have been as fatisfacftory to your constituents,
as the novelty and difficulty of the work allowed
you to hope.—Still further to realize their ex
pectations, and to secure the blessings which a
gracious Providence lias placed within our reach,
will in the couife of the present important ses
sion, call for the cool and deliberate exertion of
your patriotism, firmnels, and wisdom.
Among the many interesting objects, which
will engage your attention, that of providing
for the common defence will merit particular re
gard. To be prepared for war is oneofthemoft
effectual means of preserving peace.
A free people ought not only to be armed but
disciplined ; to which end a uniform and well di
verted plan is requisite : And their fafety and
interest require that they should promote such ma
nufactories, as tend to render them independent
on others, for eflential, particularly for military
supplies. eftabll(hnient 0 f the troops which
may be deemed indispensable, will be entitled to
mature consideration. In the arrangements which
may be made respecting it, it will be of impor
tance to conciliate the comfortable support ot the
ofticers and soldiers with a due regard to ceco
nomy. , ..
There was reason to hope, that the pacific mea
sures adopted with regard to certain hostile tribes
of Indians, would have relieved the inhabitants
of our southern and western frontiers from their
depredations. But you will perceive, from the in
formation contained in the papers, which I lliall
direct to be laid before you, (comprehending a
communication from the Commonwealth of Vir
ginia) that we ought to be prepared to afford
protection to those parts of the Union ; and, it
neceflary, to pnnifh aggreflors.
The interests of die United Srates require,
that our intercourse with other nations should be
facilitated by such provisions as will enable me
to fulfil my duty in that respect, in the manner,
which circumstances may render most conducive
to the public good : And to this end,that the com
pensations to be made to the persons, wo may
be employed, should, according to the nature ot
their appointments,be defined by law ,an
petent fund designated for defraying the expei
ces incident to the conduct of our foreign affairs.
Various confiderationsalfo render it expedient,
that the terms on which fore.gners may fee ad.
mitted to the rights of Citizens, should bejpee
ly ascertained by a uniform
Uniformity in the currency, wel g ht £ a "!? "
fures of the United States, is an obtest r, g J* lv
importance, and will, lam persuaded, be duly
attended to.
The advancement of agriculture, commerce,
and manufactures, by all proper means, will not,
I trull, need recommendation. But I cannot for
bear intimating to you the expediency of giving
effectual encouragement as well to the introduc
tion of new and ufeful inventions from abroad,
as to the exertions of Jkil 1 and genius in produ
cing them at home ; and of facilitating the in
tercourse between the distant parts of our coun
try by a due attention to the Post- Office and
Post-Roads.
Nor am I less persuaded, that you will agree
with me in opinion,that there is nothing, which
can better deserve ycur patronage, than the pro
motion of Science and Literature. Knowledge
is in every country the surest balls of public hap
piness. In one, in which the measures of govern
ment receive their impression so immediately f' °ni
the sense of the community, as in our's, it is
proportionably essential. To the security ot a
free Constitution it contributes in various ways:
By convincing those, who are entrusted with the
public administration, that every valuable end of
government is belt answered by the enlightened
confidence of the people : And by teaching the
people tliemfelves to know, and to value their
own rights ; to discern and provide againlt: mva
fions of them ; to diftinguiffi between oppreihon
and the necefl'ary exercise of lawful authority ;
between burthens proceeding from a dtfregard
to their convenience, and thoie resulting
the inevitable exigencies of society ; to difcrinu
nate the spirit of liberty from that of licentious
ness, cherilhing the firft, avoiding the last, and
uniting afpeedy, but temperate vigilance againlt
encroachments, with an inviolable refpe<st to the
laws •
Whether this desirable objeift will be belt pro
moted by affording aids to seminaries of learning
already eftabliffied, by the institution of a nation
al university, or by any other expedients, will
be well worthy of a place in the deliberations of
the Legislature.
Gentlemen of the House oj Representatives.
I SAW with peculiar pleasure, at the close of
the last session, the resolution entered into by
vou exprelfive of your opinion, that an adequate
provision for the fupportof the public credit, is a
matter of high importance to the national honor
and prosperity. —In this sentiment.l entirely con
cur.-And to a perfect confidence in your_ best
endeavors to devise such a prov,fion, as will be
truly consistent with the end, I add an re
liance on the chearful co-operatjon of the other
branch of the Legiflature—lt would be fuperflu
ous to fpecify inducements to a measure in which
the character and permanent >»t el , efts of the
United States are so obviously and so deeply con
cerned ; and which has received so explicit a
faniftion from your declaration.
Gentlemen of the Senate, and
House of Representatives.
I HAVE directed the proper officers to lay be
fore you refpeiftively such papers and elhmates
as regard the affairs particularly recommended
to your confutation, and neceflary to convey
to you that information of the state of ihe union,
which it is my duty to afford. , .
The welfare of onr country is the great objedt
to which our cares and efforts ought to be diredt
ed._ And I fliall derive great fatisfaction froma
co-operation with you, in the pleasing g
arduous task of ensuring to our fellow citizens
the bleflings, which they have a right to e*P e<fl >
froma free, efficient and
United States, January 8, i 79°-
into confidcra'lion in a Ccmmnicc o d ballot for a
"" -
from the poughkeepsie journal.
IK Amtiie* -. to. ■«». X~g£&*3S»ftSS
X balanced legislature, ar mftability, and eventual tyran-
The repoit of the committee .n ita . Pc "*;£"* heir conftitu _
whic . h '' Xch 15 "he only one'in the union that centers all lega
tion (and which is tne ron tains .1 plan which appears to be
lative power iu a {ingle houfc) contains,. p iflature U
an improvement even on £robly, with checks on each
other, nearly limiiar t rersvv i t hcut any council of appoint
thTVeTh°sTa°;? !^V;« t on government ,n America
ment. lnis is a y . , execU nvc department
When appointments are mited to a single person, there
cxclulively, and th " ex " • an< j m uch greater refponfibili
,s less room for cabal J lof , for the p erfo„
tv ot character, inep y On tne plan ot an
on whom to fix their " T f ° XCC ptionable appointments,
executive council there may be very except
and the public not dileover le; , onc pcr fon, the more he
more the public eye is conce gre ater necefEty of afling
feels his reputation at »ak*aud the fr ly ' remarUcd)
with integrity aiu'Taieaot tod feover very little folicitudefor
that popular assemblies a p arisen from the idea, that
people. If is said of Charondus, one of the ancient lawgivers of
Italy, in instituting laws for the government of Sybaris, that he* or
dered the ions of every family to learn to read and write under
mailers in the pay of the public : The Pennsylvania convention
have imitated a conduct which has confecratcd to immortality the
memory of this antient legiflaror : One of the articles which
are reported in their plan, requires tchools to be fupporud in
each town at the cheapcllrate by teachers at the public cxpence.
It is an obvious truth, that a free people owe all their Hbertwsio
their information. The citabliiKmcnt ps public schools efpeciallv
among our eaflern neighbours, have most. efTentially served to dil
femtinate amoYig the people ot thV> country a knowledge of the 1 r
rights, and the means to defend them—and we derive all our go
vernments and chaia&er from the iccds implanted by those gene
rous inftituttons. Without very considerable information, and
link fs education becomes pretty general, a people cannot ele£t
their rulers with discernment, nor will they indeed easily find men
who are competent for the various duties of public life. 1 there
fore confmer it proper to make the bulnvefs of education a part of
the foci 1 compact. We find from daily experience that people
will not do their duty voluntanis. Education, and by it here L
mean the more Ample and ufeful parts of inftruttion both in lci
ence and in morals, is rnoft unaccountably negletted by the people
in general in this State. It is even cohjetiured that our legislature
will never cor.fe.it to a law making it a duty of each town to sup
port a refpeftable school for fear it would De unpopular, W r hat
a pity then it is we have no such article in our constitution.
There are fcveral other very valuable improvements in the plan
reported in the Pennsylvania convention ; and if it is finally
adopted, as it molt probably will be, their government, from
being the most unfkiltul, will become the moil complete in the
union.
E D E N T O N, December 20.
By accounts from Fayetteville we learn, that the General As
sembly have eletted the houorable ALEXANDER MARTIN,
Esq. Governor of this state, in the room of his Excellency SA
MUEL JOHNSON, Esq. appointed a Senator to Congrels of the
United States : That Fayetteville was the placc for the next ses
sion of the General AlTcmbly, and that the appointment of the
other Senator had not been made, as there was not a majority o£
the Houses in favor of any person.
NEW-YORK, JANUARY 9.
The Prelldent of the United States, %vhen he
addrefled the two Houses of C'ongrefs yesterday,
was drefled in a crow colored suit of clothes, of
American manufacture : The cloth appeared to
be of the fineft texture —the color of that beau
tiful changeable hue, remarked in (hades not quit©
black. I'his elegant fabric was from the
manufactory in Hartford.
The acceflion of North-Carolina to the present
confederation of the states, is an event that gives
sincere pleasure to the friends of our country ;
especially as the majority is so large and refpedt
able and the joy excited 011 the occasion, may
be heightened, when the public are assured, as
they are from the best authority, that the mino
rity have dil'covered similar sentiments to those
which have done so much honor to the princi
ples of patriotism, and good citizenfliip, discover
ed by the minorities inYoineof the other states ;
A noble spirit of emulation is discovering it
fell in the several states—well endowed colleges,
and other seminaries of learning are springing
up, upon liberal and enlightened plans—medi
cal and other societies are forming to extend the
blessings of ufeful profeffions, and extenuate the
inevitable tniferies of human life—while the prin
ciples of benevolence are exciting the sons of
clemency, and compallion to devise the molt
feafible methods to extinguish every vestige of
tyranny and slavery from off the face of the
earth.—Our mechanics and artizans are forming
into companies to enable them more effectually
to promote their general iutereft. Out mei -
chants encouraged by the prote&ion of the laws,
and a uniform system of revenue, are extending
their enterprizes to all quarters of the globe
while their patriotic associations strengthen the
hands of government, and prevent the lioneft
and conscientious traders from being facrificed
by the arts of those who would evade the laws.
To crown the whole, the great American Re
public appears to realize its eligible situation,
by giving the molt indubitable evidence of its
growing attachment to that Constitution, which
with so much unanimity they have adopted—
and which every day's experience proves was
the great Aejideratum in their late embarraiied.
situation.
" United here, and realiz'd we lee,
"Laws, Independence, Liberty !
" The tiiple cord which binds all fail*
" Like the golden chain of Jove,
" Combining all below, with all above,
" To make the facrrd Union hilt."
ARRIVALS.-NEW-YORK.
H'ednefday, Sloop Sea Flower, Whiting, Cape Francois, 30 days.
Thuifiay, Brig Amelia, Lewis, Cape Francois, 9 days.
A fcwcobics of The President's SPEECH, on Jine paper, may be
J y J had at the Office of the Ed,tor.
WILLIAM TAYLOR,
Has for Sale, at his EAST-INDIA GOODS STORE,
No. 4, Burlinc-Slip,
A General Aflortment of EAST-INDIA GOODS,
Among which are the following Articles :
Hankerchiefs.of various kinds, Callas,
Chintzes, Scerfuckeis,
Ginghams, II B°glapores.
A Variety of handsome painted MUSLINS.
With many other Articles, which will be fold by the Piece or
Package* low tor caln.
And a few pair large handsome Cotton CO UN
TERPANES, much warmer thin Blankets.
January 9, '79°-THE OBSERVER.
No. XII.
On Excise, or Duties on inland Trade and Business.
TO balance tlie several branches of a nation
al revenue, in such manner, that no order
of citizens may be opprefled, and lie kind of ufe
ful business discouraged, is the molt difficult du
ty of a financier. Any man who is cloathed with
power, and determined on the obtainmcnt of a
revenue, may find ways and means to take it
from the people ; but it is only a great and pru
dent man, who can combine public and private
interests, by enriching the national treasury, in
such ways as stimulate general industry, and
overburden no order of people. A genius, na
tively adapted for such calculations, may fix on
leading principles, and conjecture with "farprif
ing success ; {till it is experience which mull per
fect the fyftein. That rapid growth of empire
which we may expect, with such frefli resources
as always appear in a new country ; under the
guidance of a masterly hand, and matured by a
few years experience, will establish American
credit in the opinion of all mankind. But to
make ;; fuccefsful beginning, the public must
ftxercile patience, and give time for the several
parts of a system, to be brought forward in or
derly fucceflion ; and when the whole is produc
ed, there will be a fit time to judge, how near
the firft attempt hath approached to such per
fection as we may expecft, and wherein altera
tions may be expedient. No man, who hath
abilities tt> provide otherwise for himfelf, will
long serve a factious people ; and wlitn jealousy
begins to arise, between the great denominations
of citizens, who pursue different employments,
it threatens a retirement of those characters,
who are most fit to guide. The importing mer
chants have set a noble example of patriotifin,
in aiding an iinpoft by their influence; if the
retailing merehants and planters discover equal
magnanimity, we may defy the predictions of
our enemies, that America will be always faith
lefs.
linpoft and excise are among the names by
which taxes on commerce and business have been
called. In the American sense of tliefe words,
impost is a tax on merchandise, payable at the
port of entry, by the importing merchant; and
excise is a tax on certain kinds of business, or a
duty on merchandise paid by the retailer after
a sale of his goods. Though the fame article be
charged with both duties, there is an obvious
reason for separating the times of imposition and
payment. The nature of importation, requires
it to be made in larger quantities of the fame
article, than will command an immediate sale *
and an impost must be paid before the merchant
can receive any returns by his business. If too
high an impost be charged, it in effect prohibits
importation, by requiring from the importer a
stun greater than he can pay; for though he re
charges it to the purchaser, there must be a pre
vious advance of the duty, which is beyond his
power. This remark will be found true in all
mercantile states ; but especially ir» America,
from the prevalent custom of giving a long cre
dit to the retailing trader. Were an impost to
he imposed, of four times the present sum, it
would amount to a prohibition 011 three fifths of
our importing merchants ; and throw business
into the hands of a few who have great wealth
This would be deftrucftive to many worthy mer
chants, and operate as a monoply to raise prices
unreasonably on the consumer. There are many
articles of luxury which ought to contribute a
large fharc to the national revenue ; among these
are wines, and ardent spirits of every kind
The man who will indulge his vanity and appe
tite, in ways which have a corrupting influence
on republican virtue, is a fit subject for such
kinds of taxation, as he may avoid or voluntari
ly take on himfelf. So great a tax 011 these ar
ticles, at the port of entry or at the diltillery,
as they ought to pay, would prohibit importa
tion for the reason abovementioned ; but divide
the tax, let one part be paid on importation, and
the other by the retailer, after an actual con-
Atmption of the article and the evil is prevented.
I care not by what name this last tax is called,
for names are arbitrarily imposed, and have
such a meaning as the legislature is pleased to
give them. Impost and excise do not mean the
fame thing in any two states on earth. In Eng
land, an excise means taxes 011 various kinds of
manufacture and internal business, and is wholly
different from those excises used by several states
in the union, which are duties on the retail sale
of imported articles. In other European coun
tries, impost and excise have meanings as diffe
rent as the several languages of the people ; and
by means of our general descent from that coun
try,and a community oflanguage,excife is an un
popular word in America ; "for which reason per
haps this name ought not to enter a revenue
system in the United States—though our duties
011 inland trade and business, fliould be eftabliih
ed 011 equitable principles, and with a most fa
cred regard to the rights of men and citizens,
the idea aflociated with that word, will not be
removed for half a century.
To accomodate m yfelf to the reader's under
(landing, 1 have used the word excise in my past
eflays, for all duties on inland trade and oncer
tain lucrative branches of business ; and I be
lieve it is the sense of the people, that such du
ties ought to constitute one great branch of the
national revenue.
Every principle of national policy requires,
that the use of certain foreign articles should be
discouraged, by a higher tax, than can be im
posed at the port of entry ; without forming a
virtual monoply, in favor of a few overgrown
iinporrers, or great foreign companies ; who
would pay any tax, if they might be richly re
paid, by a subsequent sale in the country.
Every principle of virtue requires, that the
superabundant use of certain articles, which are
deliruAive to the morals, health and industry
of the people, should be checked by taxation.—
If the intemperate, who disturb our neighbou
hood, and corrupt our youth, will not benefit
the public by their indullry and thrift, they
should be made subservient to the national good,
by contributing largely to its income—So fniall
a quantity of ardent spirits, is neceilary for me
dicine, and the real comfort of life, that a high
tax will injure no one, but thole who use them
to excess ; and such have no right to complain of
an evil, voluntarily brought on themselves.
Sumptuary laws, or lawsagainft excess in dress
and living, have been found neceilary in many
states, and they are needed in this country. An
absolute prince, may prohibit luxury and extra
vagance in dreis, by his positive injunctions ;
but the experiment will not succeed with a peo
ple, who have such ideas of liberty, as prevail
in the United States—a more fafe method is
to discourage foreign fuperfluities, and encour
age our own manufactures by duties judiciously
imposed. It is better to enrich our revenue at
the expence of prodigality, than of industry—
The prodigal are felf devoted to ruin, and as the
event cannot be prevented, for the contagion of
their example let them make the only pollible
atonement, a contribution to the neceflities of
the country which hath protected them. Wrought
silks of foreign manufacture, ought to be consi
dered as fuperfluities in the United States ; and
a duty on all these would encourage the home
cultivation and manufacture, for which the mid
dle and southern states are well adapted. To
select all the articles, which ought on these ge
neral principles to be dutied, is equally beyond
my present design, my information and capaci
ty. Certain branches of business within the
country, which are productive to the managers,
and firmly established, might contribute a share
to the national revenue. Our empire extends
through a greater variety of climes than any
other on earth ; in some part of the whole, al
most every production of nature may be found,
and every work of art will soon be fabricated.
Policy leads to a preference of home productions
and manufactures, and a mercantile intercourse
between the northern, middle, and southern
ftates—Uni.il this takes place we are not an in
dependent people, in so high a sense as we might
be ; and the encouragement of such intercourse,
depends on the regulation of revenue. To take
up these general principles and form a fyrteni of
duties on inland trade and business, of general
benefit, must be a work of time—the talk is diffi
cult—the scope is broad, but I firmly believe, the
gentlemen, in your treasury department, have
an eye of discernment which can measure it.
While on this subject, 1 cannot refrain men
tioning the impolicy and injustice of tliofe par
tial systems, which have obtained in a number
of states, under the name of excise. That poli
ticians of a little territory, prefled for expe
dients, should patronize them before the forma
tion of a general government, is not so strange ;
but thatany should prefevere at the present crisis
is unfortunate—Every thing of this kind is inits
nature anti-national, and leads to jealousy and
contention between the ftates—lt is' contrary to
the spirit of our constitution, which wifely pro
vides that commerce, with all its interests shall
be under the controul of one nurturing parent
and it will give rife to counteracting schemes of
revenue, which will for a time oppress the peo
ple, and in the end defeat the whole. It ought
further to be observed, that the manner of col
lecting state excises, has been and will be such,
that the rich who purcliafe in large quantities,
escape payment, and the poor who buy of a re
tailer, in small proportions, arefubjected to the
duty. Certainly this is not good policy or justice.
P. S. Sincewritingthe above, the Obferverhas
heard of a little Treatise, which he would recom
mend to the perusal of the people of Connecticut.
It is entitled, " An enquiry into the Excise Laius of
Connecticut - and is fuppoled to be written by a
gentleman of known literary merit—in which he
hath clearly proved, the impolicy and injustice
of all state excises, and local systems of revenue,
by commerce, and their inconsistency with the
rights of a general government.
THE GtffST.— No. XII.
With equal eye each tender 'tildfntju
And point their opening beauties to the 4< l v;
Jiut if'perchance, feme weaker than the rejU
Recline their heads, by nature's lur.ddtprej,
Let double diligence thy hours employ, t
To make them objecis too, offuture joy
'l HI ERE is a weakness that many parent! djfcCver in th<r ; r
JL coridu6l towards their children, wliicfi is invariably attend
•ed with unhappy effefts—aud that is, p.<cr.«ihty in their deport-'
.merit towards thole who inlenlibly bccorne the obje&s ot peculiar
tendemeffr, while the r<*ftofthe famra:e treated with negleti,
' But the ideas on this subject 1 would wilh 10 itupretl on the minds
of my readers, are contained in the following quotation from thai
excellent production, the " Worcelter Speculator" in these ou
fervations, viz.
Parents are the truflees or Heaven ; infant fouls are loaned to
them to form for lifrfiilricfs here and happmefs hereafter ; in the
discharge of this all important trust, the nice ft attention thould be
paid to the forming ot their minds, and they ought carefully to
avoid adifcovery of any partiality, as it has a tendency to JYritate
and four the temper and difpontion, and will indelibly (lamp the
chara&er through life. To adminiller favours with equal liberali
ty, ought to be the leading principle in the magna charta of every
domestic republic ; yet so strangely have parents, from the fir/t
formation of families, mistaken the elements of domeftick police,
that we have too often found them, in the mod inhuman manner,
detaching favourites from among their branches, on whom they
lavish every attention, unnaturally indulging the freaks of their
own fancy, and fuffering the fcaleof favour to preponderate with
the moil unreserved caprice.—lnhuman gratification ! ill grounded
partiality ! If it be bottomed on any superiority of talents, that
fuperionty must arise from nature or from education; if from
nature, parents, as the inftrumcnts of nature, ought to be the laftto
aggravate these misfortunes ; if from education, as the guardians
and inftru&ors ot their offspring, they but rebuke their own de
linquency.—Unnatural and unjuftifiable is the conduit of such
parents—unhappy and fatal have been the consequences which ever
: did and invariably will result from such treatment; yet how bitter,
how agonizing is the refle&ion to every philanthropic foul, that
the baneful influence of this pau~tiality is not confined to, nor does
it all evaporate in the small fphcre of domeftick conv. ' us—
" 3 u fl as * wl '& tnc's inclin'd."—
The early impreflions of infancy will indelibly (lain our mind?
tor life.—When children aie forced, by a parent's unequal hand,
into a consciousness of their inferiority, it enlarges on them with
their acquaintance with mankind.
PRICE CURRENT —.—NK W- YORK.
JANUARY 9. Dollars at Bs.
JAMAICA Spirits, 5/3.8 5/6 '
Antigua Rum, 4/9. a (J.
St. Croix, do. 4/4. a 4JB.
Country, do. 2JIO. a 3/.
Molafles, 2/4. a rfs.
Brandy, $/q. a 6/
Geneva, 5/
Do. in cases, a 20/
Muscovado Sugar, Bo_/. a 72/
Loaf, do. I^3.
Lump, do. i/tj.
PfPP". 3/3
Pimento, if. a
Coffee, IJB. a
Indigo, (Carolina) 3f. a6A
Do. French, 18/7
Rice, 22/.
Superfine Flour, 49 f.
Common do. 42J. a 44 f.
Rye do. 2sf a 26/!
Indian Meal, 18f.
R y e < 4./9- P r - W-
Corn, (Southern) 4f.
Do. (Northern,) 4/3. a
Beef, firfl quality, 45f a tfij
Pork, fii II quality, 70s. a 75/
Oats, 1/7.
Flax-feed, 5/6 a 5/9.
Ship bread per cwt. 21/
Country refined ) ,
bar-iron, J aß >- " 3°>-
Do. bloomery, 251. a 261.
Swedes do. 451.
Ruflia do. 301.
Pig-iron, 81 10/: 39).
German steel, per lb. gi/.
Nails American, by calk. ) ,
per. lb. 4 d. 7 I > id -
Do. do. do. 6d. 12. J.
Do. do. do. Bd.
Do. rlo. do. jod.
Do. do. do- lad.f ~
Do. do. do. zod.r da H d -
Do. do. do, 24d.)
Potafti, per ton, 391. a 401.
Pearl alb, 481 a 501.
Becs-wax per lb. 2/2. a 2/3.
Mackaiel per barr. 26f. a 30/
Herrings, 18\f.
Mahogany, Jamaica, ) .
per foot, I 10d -
Dominico, do. qj.
Honduras, do. yd.
Logwood unchipped, >
per ton. J •
Do. chipped. 141.
2 inch white oak ) , ,
plank, perm. f ">l. 10/
1 inch do. 51.
2 inch white pine plank, 81.
lj inch do. 61. 10f.
1 inch do. 31. tof.
2 inch pitch pine ao. 101.
inch do. 61. 1 of.
1 inch do. 41.
Pitch pine scantling, 31. if
Cyprus 2 feet (bingles, jl. ao/
Do. 22 inch do. 11. Bf.
Cedar 2 inch do. il. lof
ADVERTISEMENT.
THE Gazette of the United States circulates in every part of
the Union—being honored by fuhjcribers in Georgia, South ana North
Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, Pennsylvania, New-Jerjcy+
New-York, Connecticut, Rhode-lfland, Majjachufetts, Ncw-Hampjhire,
and DiJlritt of Maine, Canada, Europe, and the Wejl Indies. This ex
tenjive circulation renders it a proper vehicle for Advertisements
oj a general, commercial and governmental import:—the particular
dejyre and advice, therefore, of a number of its patrons, paper
will be open for the reception of advertisements of the above defer ipt ion ;
oMj'cA Mry will convey intelligence of aninterejling nature, Me
insertion will meet the approbation of his friends in
| general. Should the number at any time amount to more than a page in
I Gazette, they will be given in a Supplement. JOHN FEN NO.
PubHfhed by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maiden-
Lank, ncarthe Ofwego-Mgrkct) New-York.—[3dol. pr. an.~\
Do. 22 inch do. 11. 6/.
Do. 18. inch do. 18f
Butt white oak dates, 3tS.
Pipe do. do. 91.
Hbgihead do. do. 61. xof.
Do. do. heading, 81.
Irifti barrel do. (laves, 31. frf.
Hoglhead red oak do. 51.
Do. French do. $1.
HogQiead hoops, 4!.
Wbiteoak square timber ) ,
per square foot, y
Red wood, per ton, 281.
Fuftiek, 101.
Beaver, per lb. 12f. a iSf.
Otter per skin, gf. 32J1
Grey fox, 4/7.
Martin, 4/10.
Racoon, 3/607/6.
Mufkrat, tod. a \^d.
Beaver hats, 64/
Castor do. 48If.
Chocolate, 14 d.
Cocoa, 7 of. a 80s
Cotton, ljg.
Tar, pr. bar. \\J.a\if.
Pitch, lGf.
Turpentine, 18/. a zof.
Tobacco, James River,
Do. York, 4d. a 3\d.
Do. Rappahanock, id a 3Jd.
Do. Maryland, coloured, 5%d.
Do. Weftern-ftiore, 2d a 3\d.
Lead in pigs, pr cwt. 60/T
Do. bars, 68f.
Do. Shot, 68f.
Red lead, 6^
White do. dry, 9sf.
While do. in oil, 5/. 12f
Salt-petre hams, 7\d.
Spermaceti candles,
Mould do. nd. a If.
Tallow dipt, 9tyi.
Soap, s</. a Bd.
Cafltile soap, 9 d. a \od.
English cheese, pr. lb. isd.
Country do. sd.
Butter, 1/
Hyson tea, \\f. a is\f.
Sequin do. 6[6.
Bohea do. 2f§.
Cinfcng, 3/ a 4/6.
Staich Poland, yd.
Snuff, 2J3.
Allum fait, water mea- )
sure, pr. bufli. 5 &
Liverpool do. 2J.
Madeira wfet, > , ,
pr. pipe, J r
Port, 46/.
Lifoon, pr. gal. d~.
Tcneriff, 4r
F y a ". 3/3-
Dutch gun-powder,pr. cwt. 8/.
Nail rods, pr. ton, 36/.
Lintfeed oil, pr. gal. s r
Whale do. pr. barrel, t£/. a§6f.
Spermaceti do, 6/. '
Shake-down hhds. rj*