PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FEkNO, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOND AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 77, of Vol. Jl.]
FROM THE GENERAL ADVERTISER.
Mr. Bache,
I HAPPENED lately to be in the company of
several young ladies, where the following
curious convcrfation took place : —
Sophia. Mercy 011 our poor Congress ! I really
fear that some of them will return home crack
brained or 113'fteric. Our body politic is 10 very
fore, that it cannot bear to be handled, though
ever so gently ; every part crics, touch me not :
Don't pull my hair, Sirrah, hallos one : lon triad
on viy toes, squeals another : Tour confoundedelbow
kicks my flomach, roars a third : I'll fay you for
pulling a gentleman's nose, thunders the fourth.
If Congress attempts a duty on rum and whilky,
they are hiifed, as if they would tax the milk of
fucking babes. If Congress will teach our young
men to defend their mothers and fvveethearts,
they are called pick-pockets and cut-throats.
Charlotte. Indeed I sincerely pity our national
guardians. Their pupils are more whimfica!
than young girls, and fbme of them as froward
as naughty boys. The militia adl seems to dis
please every one. The great body of Quakers
dislike it: The trades-people want exemption for
their apprentices: The students expert: immu
nity : The young farmers will not bear the bur
den alone. I suppose that we young women
must learn militia duty, and turn out with both
mufquec and bayonet.
7'halejlr'ts. Upon my word, I long for this hap
py change of affairs. We fliall then expunge the
odious obey front the wedding ceremony. Should
I ever be unlucky enough to get a husband, sa
vage as an Indian, and ttrongasGoliath, I'll keep
him quiet as a nioufe, by slashing my gun in his
face. Then, my girls, we fliall fir ft be absolute
miftrefTes of otir houses, and then in a very short
lime govern the slate also. We ihall in this
western liemifphere set up a female empire,
that fliall laugh at all the male governments in
the world.
Roxana. My dear girl, let me kiss you for that
greatness of foul. Oh, may the glorious day
loon dawn, when our sex shall be delivered from
an ignominious slavery of 6000 years : a slavery
founded upon the story of our firil mother's eat
ing a forbidden apple: a slavery exercifecl by
pedants, sophists, blockheads, drones, drunkards,
fops, gamesters, bloods, bigots, rakes, voluptua
ries over the far more virtuous, fsnlible, lovely
part of the human species. In fifty quarto vo
lumes of ancient and modern history, you will
not find fifty illustrious female names; heroes,
flatel'men, divines, philosophers, artists, are all
of the niafculine gender. And pray what have
thev done during this long period of usurpation ?
Busy they have been with a witness : They have
written ten thousand unintelligible books : They
have laboured 1000 years to, eltablifh erroneous
fyltems, and worked hard again for another 1000
years to pull them down : They have been cut
ting each other's throats all over the globe, and
murdered at lead one hundred millions in quar
rels about idols, titles, gold lace, nutmeg and
rum : They have disputed for many centuries
about the best form of government, without pro
ducing one good pattern—l boldly affirm, not
one, not even in this country; because the fede
ral conjlitution has the great defett of being too good,
lhat is, of supposing more virtue in the people
than they really have; of supposing them wife,
generous, brave, when they cannot fee their true
interest, when they love pelf, and hate martial
exercises
Thakftris. I am exceedingly pleased, my dear,
with your congenial sentiments, and hope that
we have 100,000 fillers 111 the United States. 1
anticipate the glorious day when American ladies
(hall be Commanders, Presidents of Congress,
Ambafladors, Governors, Secretaries of State,
Profeffors, Judges, Preachers; when the golden
age o( the Poets, and the milleniumof theClirif
tiar.s (hull be realized in America.
Amelia. Yet ladies, you mall in the execution
of this splendid plan, employ the men, at least
in subordinate parts.
Thale.flris. Yes, yes, we will make them hewers
of Wbod and drawers of water; they (hall cook
for us, make our (hoes, knit (lockings, wa(h our
linen, &c. &c. We (hall perhaps employ some
of them as pioneers and sutlers in our camps,
mere -quill-drivers in the petty offices, door
keepers, ineH'engers, sextons, and so forth.
Saturday, January 22, 1791-
Amtlia. But will they submit to this inferio
rity.
Roxana. Inferior minds will befitted for infe
rior ft at ions. We (hall keep the J word and the
purse in our own hands. We fliall moreover
keep them ignorant, and from infancy bend their
mind to ferviliry.
Amdia. But, after all, is not woman made for
man ? and would you be the wife of such a pu
lillanimous creature ? If not, how would you pre
serve this noble race of females, and the grand
empire you talk of.
Thaleflris. I confefs you puzzle me. However,
we in 11 ft pick out the least defective males, or
else import from Europe some of their bcft men,
cost what it will.
Amelia. This would still be a very partial sup
ply ; nine in ten of the women must die old
maids,
Roxana. It is so. We must make that use of
le men which nature intended. I hope also,
hat this neceflary evil will not spoil the offspring;
jecaufe the great Linnaeus has proved that we
derive the mental part from our mothers. Ad
mitting that the bodies of our children fhouldbe
the worse for the imbecility of their fathers, we
can harden them by cold baths, exercise, &c.
Maria. My dear friends, your schemes are
Utopian. The laws of Providence are immuta
ble : Man must do the rough work of society :
Woman shines in the tender cares and elegant
arts ef domestic life Let us carry a counter
petition to Congress, signed by ten thou/. 'and fair
Americans; let us boldly declare, that we will
never marry a man who cannot, in cafe of need,
protect us and our children.
The lady proceeded in Sketching this petition ;
it was arranged within an hour, and is now cir
culating over the country for subscription: I
fiiall shortly give you a copy of it.
Tour friend, C.
The following intelligence was received by the De
amber BritiJJj Packet, arrived at New-York on
Sunday lafl.
LONDON
PARLIAMENTARY INTELLIGENCE.
HOUSE OF LORDS.
November 26.
AT twenty minutes after two, his Majesty
came into thehoufe, and being seated upon
the throne, Sir Francis Molyneaux was directed
by the Lord Chancellor to proceed to the House
of Commons, and command their attendance up
on his Majesty.
FRIDAY,
Black Rod returned, with Mr. Addington, the
speaker, who approached the bar, between the
Master of the Rolls and Mr. Phillips, followed
by upwards of 200 members ; after bowing re
verentially to the throne, he addrefled his Ma
jelly as follows :
" .Mojl Gracious Sovereign,
IN obedience to your Majesty's commands,
your faithful Commons have proceeded, in con
formity to their antient privileges,to eletftaSpeak
er ; and theirchoice has fallen upon me, whom
they now present to your Majefiy for your royal
approbation.
The arduous situation in which I am placed,
will require abilities and judgmentinfinitely be
yond what your Majesty may expert from the
Speaker of your House of Commons. It is with
great reverence that I bend to your Majesty,
when I appear before you to receive your royal
approbation."
The Lord Chancellor approached the throne,
and having received his Majesty's commands, de
clared his Majesty's full approbation of the unan
imous choice his faithful Commons had made.
The Speaker tlien bowed to the throne, and
on behalf of the Commons, prayed his Majesty
to grant their ancient privileges, freedom o(
speech, &c. .
The Lord Chancellor again approached his
Majesty, and replied to the Speaker—" His Ma
jesty has, in the most ample manner, confirmed
all your ancient rights and privileges.
His Majesty then made the following most gra
cious speech from the throne :
My Lords and Gentlemen,
IT is a great fatisfadtion to me to inform you,
that the differences which had arisen between
713
[Whole No. 181.]
me and the court of Spain, have happily been
brought to an amicable termination.
I have ordered copies of the declarations ex
changsd between my ambaflador and the niinifter
of the Catholic King, and of the convention
which has iiuee been concluded, to be laid be
fore you.
The objeifls which I have proposed to my
felf in the whole of this tranlaition have been,
to obtain a suitable reparation for the aifts of vi
olence committed at Nootka, and to remove the
grounds of similar disputes in future, as well as
ro secure to myfubjecfts the exercise of their na
vigation, commerce, and filhgries, in those parts
of the world which were the fubjedt of difcuffiom
The zeal and public spirit manifefted by all
ranks of my fubjerts, and the disposition and ,
condudl of my allies, had left r.ie no room to
doubt of the molt vigorous and eftedlual support i
but no event could have afforded me so much fa- .
tisfadlion, as the attainment of the objects which
I had in view, without any actual interruption
of the blefti rigs of peace.
Since the last session of Parliament, a founda
tion has been laid for a pacification between Au
stria and the Porte, and I am now employing my
mediation, in conjunction with my allies, for the
purpose of negotiating a definitive treaty be
tween those powers, and of endeavouring to put
an end to the diflention, in the Netherlands, in
whose situation I am neceflarily concerned, from
confederations of national interest, as well aa
from the engagement of treaties.
A separate peace has taken place between Ruf j
fia and Sweden ; but the war between the form
er of those powers and the Porte, still continues.
The principles on which I have hitherto
will make me always defireus of employing the
weight and influence of this country in contri
buting to the restoration of general tranquility-
Gentlemen of the House of Commons,
I have ordered the accounts of the expence of
the late armaments, and theeftimates for the en
fuingyear, to belaid before you.
Painful as it is to me, at all times, to fee any
increase of the public burthens, I am persuaded
you will agree with me in thinking, that the ex
tent of our preparations was dictated by a due
regard to the existing circumstances, and that
you will refledt with pleasure on so striking a
proof of the advantages derived from the liberal
supplies granted since the last peace, for the
naval service. I rely on your zeal and public
spirit to make due provision for defraying the
charges incurred by this armament, and for Aip
porting the several branches of the public service
on such a footing, as the general lituation of af
fairs may appear to require. You at the
fame time, I am persuaded, fliew your determi
nation invariably to persevere in that system
which has so effectually confirmed and maintained
the public credit of the nation.
My Lords and Gentlemen,
You will have obferred with concern the in
terruption which has taken place in the tran
quility of our India pofleffions, in consequences
of the unprovoked attack on an ally of the Britifli
nation. The refpecftable state, however, of the
forces under the dire<ftion of the government
there, and the confidence in the British name,
which the system prescribed by parliament, has
established among the nativepowers in India, af
ford the most favorable profpedt of bringing the
contest to a speedy and fuccefsful cor.clufion. ,
I think it necessary, particularly to call your
attention to the state of the Province of Quebec,
and to recommend it to you, to consider of such
regulations for its government, as the present
circumstances and condition of the Province may
appear to require.
I am fatisfied that I shall, on every occasion,
receive the fulled proofs of your zealous and af
fectionate attachment, which cannot but afford
me peculiar fatisfa<ftion, after so recent an op
portunity of colle<fling the immediate sense of 1
my people.
You may be aflured, that I desire nothing so
much on my part, as to cultivate an entire har
mony and confidence between me and my parlia
ment, for the purpose of preserving and trans
mitting to posterity, the invaluable blessings of
our free and excellent conllitution, and of con
curring with you in every nieafure which can
maintain the advantages of our present situation,
and promote and augment the prosperity ana
(happiness of my faithful fubje<3s.
&UsoNovemeep. 30.
The Duke of Orlean's defence has jufl made
Its appearance in an English dress; together with
the advice of his Counsel, who recommended
liim to commence an adtion againlt the King's At
tormy for a malicious prafecution ; and agaiiift se
veral of the witnefles for perjwy. In an intro
ductory advertisement tliefe circumltances are
applied to a celebrated trial now depending.
Alexander Maconochie, Esq. is to succeed the
late Dr. Adam Smith as one of the Commilfioners
of the Customs in Scotland.
On Wednesday lad the Lord Provolt, Tvlagif
trates, and Council of Edinburgh, unanimouily
agreed to address his Majeily on the continua
tion of peace, in consequence of the convention
entered into between the Courts of Great-Britain
and Spain.
It was yesterday determined in the Court of
King's Bench, that a man marrying a widow is
not bound to maintain her children by her firft
husband.
Ireland, in the ten last years, has paid to Swe
den and other countries, the enormous sum ot
five millions for Iron alone, which their own
mines were adequate to produce.
Letters from Vienna confirm the vi<ftory ob
tained by the Generalissimo of her Imperial Ma
jetty over the Turks in the Cuban. This victory
is represented to have been very complete, and
will, no doubr, have its weight in the negocia
tions with the Porte.
Immediately after the convention has been ta
ken into consideration, the following important
objects will be submitted lo Parliament by the
minister, viz.
The forming of two diftincft governments for
Canada and Brunfwick, in North-America.
The appointment of an Ambaflador to the
United States of America. And
A revision of the laws of Guernsey and Jersey.
We hear that Mr. Elliott, father-in-law to Ad
miral Digby, is to be the Ambaflador to America,
with a salary of 30001. a year.
The church lands and houses in France have
fold for a larger Jum than could be fairly ex
pected.
On the 31ft of October, M. Blanchard, being
then at Prague, made his 37th excursion
in his balloon, accompanied by one of the mem
bers of the Royal Society of Prague. The bal
loon was filled with 9000 cubic fe;et of <raz ; and
at 4, P. M. he ascended from the plain Baumgar
ten, in presence of a multitude of spectators.
They were provided with several infti'uments
for making observations, but the machine was
scarcely at the height of 1000 feet, before they
were ail broken, or thrown down from the galle
ry by a violent motion of a stream of wind,which
tofled the machine in all directions—Notwith
standing their apparent danger, they descended
in perfect faf'ety.
A private letter from the East-Indies, jnft re
ceived, mentions that a war has begun between
our troops and Tippoo Sultan, who now stiles
liimfelfShah Allum, or king of the world.
In consequence of a duel which took place,
Nov. 12 between M. deCaftries, of the ariltocra
tic, and M. Lameth, of the patriotic party, in
France ; it has been proposed to the Aflembly,
that the practice of duelling be made capital.
M. de Lameth was dangerously wounded, and in
revenge, jhe mob have demolished the house of
M. de Castries, who had previoiifly made his
escape. ; —
The folio-win? extrafis are tranflatedfrom the LEY
DEN GAZETTE.
HAGUE, Nov. 23 —30
" We ar'e waiting with the greatest impatience
for news from Brabant, where we expert the
Austrian army are at this moment arrived. The
Belgic Congress, weary of the fanatical obstinacy
of Van der Noot, Van Enpen, and others of that
calV, have concluded, at last to make an attempt
to avoid an absolute fubmiflion to the Emperor,
and preserve their ancient constitution without
having recourse to military exertions. From all
appearances, the Belgic Congress have no other
relource left them but to accept the re-eltabli(h
ment of their old conllitnrion, with every gua
rantee for the ftricS observance thereof that can
reasonably be desired—the two superior orders
of the nation, fee the absolute neceflity of ac
cepting those terms immediately, and nothing
but the influence of the inferior clergy over the
dregs of the people, keeps alive the present dis
turbances, and prevent the low countries from
enjoying the bleflings of peace-"
" On the 13th inft. the Belgic Congress metto
debate upon the Emperor's manifeft. Van Eupen
and Van der Noot, conluded their harangues
with afolemn oath never to enter into any ac
commodation whatever with the emperor, or to
return under his sovereignty, and advised the
other members td follow their example ; but
this was peremptorily refufed ; and the delegates
from HainauJt, Flanders, Tournay and Tournefis
and from Malines, joined the other members in
their refufal, adding, " that they were ordered
by their conftitueiits to accommodate matters,
if poflible, witH their ancient sovereign.' And I
thus the Belgic nation is split into two parties,
the more moderate under the controul of the
moll numerous and violent, hurried on by a blind
impetuoficy and a few designing leaders.
(t Letters from Vienna, dated Nov. 13, men
tion a compleat vicftory gained by the Ruffians
over the Turks in the Cuban, on or about the
tenth of October. Notwithstanding the fuperio
ty of the Turks in numbers, they were totally
vanquished, and their whole camp with their
artillery, consisting of more than 300 pieces of
cannon, their baggage, provision, and even the
Serafkier and all his family, fell into the hands
of the conquerors."
STATE PAPER.
The following Minijlerial Paper,fignedby the Plenipotentiaries oj the
thjeeallied Powers, England, Puflia, and Holland, inanjzverto
the Belgic deputies, is too interejling, in the present juncture oj aj-
Jairs, to be omitted :
YOUR conflituents seem to doubt our having received posi
tive inflruttions, and fufHcient powers to allure to your nation, the
means which ought to precede the ceHdtion of hollilities, and that
we have not spoken minifteriallv in our verbal answers. To fct a
fide all such scruples and uncertainty, we here speak for the third
and last time, alluring you that we do it ministerially, in the name
of our refpe&ive sovereigns. " That it rests only with the Belgic
nation to fee their legitimate constitution re-established, such as it
existed, in the greatest purity, before the commencement of the
last reign, with all its privileges, civil and religious, and a per
fect oblivion of every thing, that has pafled during the late trou
bles. We are moreover au'horifed to add, that if your conflitu
ents enter again frankly and willingly into obedience to the Em
peror's government, his Imperial Majesty is disposed to grant such
farther conceflions as (hall elfentially alter the constitutions. But
we are obliged to declare openlv,that no longer a term than twen
ty one days, from the date of this letter, is allowed to accept their
propositions.
If you permit this time to pass, or it in the interval you give
occasion for any new holtile aggreflion, we protest, that our re
fpe&ive Sovereigns can no longer guarantee your fate.
Done at the Hague, the 31ft of Oft. 1790.
(Signed)
NEW-YORK, Jan. 18
ExtraSl of letter from London, dated Nov. 24
By these inclosed papers you will fee that the
so much talked of revolution of the Belgic Pro
vinces lias come to nothing. Every effort has
been made to oppose the Emperor, but to no
purpose. The desertion of the Belgic army is
almott universal ; and the consternation occasion
ed by a convicftion of the utter impoflibility of
refitting troops so infinitely superior in discipline
and courage to their own, has obliged the people
to yield to irrefiftable necelfity. So it wouldhave
been with you in your contest with this country
had not the wide Atlantic and fovne other cir
cumstances interposed to save you.—As to our
selves, we are congratulating each other on cer
tain imaginary advantages gained in our nego
ciation with Spain, such as the right of fifhing
for whales in the middle of the South Seas, and
eredling fortrefles in a barren country at the ex
tremities of the Globe, which even by our own
accounts is not worth pofiefling, except on ac
count of an article of commerce which must soon
be exhaufled.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
TUESDAY, Jan. n.
(Continued from our
In committee of the whole, on the bill repealing after
the lafl day of next the all laying duties on
dijlilledfpirits, ire. and im[>ofi>ig others m their
/lead. Mr. Boudinot in the chair.
MR. Williamson adverted to the publica
tion of the resolutions of the aflembly of
North-Carolina, in which business he said, some
mifinforniation had taken place. He then al
luded to the assumption, and observed that since
the United States had made the State debts the
debts of the union, it becomes necefl'ary to pro
vide for them, and he supposed some fort of ex
cise was neceifary. He reprobated aland tax—
and then observed that excises according" to- the
constitution, ought to be equal ; he proposed to
equalize them by impohng a tax 011 beer and cy
der. If there will bean excess in the revenue,
as appears pretty evident, let the duty on our
own produce be struck out. He infilled on the
injustice of layingthis duty 011 those States, which
had been averse to the afl'umption.
He fuggefled other sources of revenue—men
tioned newspapers, on which he supposed if a
duty was laid, it would be advantageous to the
public and to the printers. He concluded by
faying he hoped the i 3th feOtion would be ftrutfk
out.
Mr. Ames offered a few remarks, to shew the
obligation of the government to provide perma
nent funds for the payment of the interest ofthe
debt agreeable to the fpiritof the law pafled the
laltfeffion—nor did he conceive that acafual sur
plus was any fufficient reason for not making
complete provision ; annual grants for the pur
pose of supporting the public credit had been fuf
ficiently proved inadequate to the objetfl.
714
AUCKLAND,
KEI.LER,
VAN DE SPIEHEL.
Mr. Elocdu crtli observed that if prejudices do
exist, whether well founded, or not, ihey pro
duce all the niifchiefs of a we(l founded oppofi"
tion till they are removed ; he said a universal
opposition to excifes,exifts in North-Carolina, and
he dreaded the consequences of this measure's
being urged ; North-Carolina has been well dis
posed to the government —what is the reason this
is not at prefentthe cafe ? It is owing fir, to the
ineaCures which have been pursued by the govern
ment. The r.Huinption was a m,eafure aniverfally
odious to the people of that State, and he believ
ed it was so to many other persons in the South
ern States. With refpeifl to the observations of
the gentleman from Mallachufetts, that North
Carolina knew when (lie adopted the Conl'citution
that the general government had a right ro lay
excises, he observed, that' North Carolina expect
ed that some attention would havn been paid to
her proposed amendments : On the whole he
hoped the clause would be struck out—and if an
excise is thought to be necefl'ary, let it be laid
only on foreign spirits, andfpirits manufactured
from foreign materials.
Mr. Lawrance replied to Mr. Bloodvvorth's ob
servations refpedtingconfining the duty to foi eigu
spirits : He said this would operate to produce a
very great deficiency in the revenue—The impor
tation of foreign spirits will be destroyed, and
the revenue derived from that source will be loft.
He adverted to certain objections which had
been urged againltthe bill, from the experience
of Great Britain—he (hewed, that none of these
applied on the present occasion : The bill is di
velted of those qualities, commonly supposed to
be connected •-it h Excise Laws. He took notice
of the accounts of uneafinelles which are said to
exist in some of the States—and counterbalanced
them by the tranquility and fatisfaction which
appear in others : In those which it is presumed
bear at leafl: a full proportion of the burdens al
ready imposed by government.
He contended, that the operation of the bill
would be to equalize the public burdens—and
when this is realized, as it will be, he doubted not
a fpiritof conciliation and good humor would be
the consequence.
Mr. Jackson said that the funding law had ap
propriated the revenue for the payment of all
the debts original and a (Turned—and the faith of
the United States is pledged only to make up
such deficiency as may happen. It appears from
the calculations before the committee, that no
such deficiency will be to be provided for. He
wished gentlemen to shew some plausible reason
for this additional burthen on the people—The
estimates he had offered cannot be invalidated.
Mr. Parker said he had heard nothing to in
duce him to change his mind refpet'ting this bill.
He had been uniformly opposed to excises—and
he should not withdraw his oppo(ition at the pre
sent time.
He then adverted to tlie unequal operation of
an excise, especially on the foiithern States, \\ hich
he said rendered it entirely cantrary to the spirit
of the Constitution.
He doubted not the revenue would encrenfe,
not withllanding the supposititious defalcations
which had been mentioned. He urged the un
popularity of the tueafure—the cultivation of
the foiithern orchards ought to be encouraged by
the northern states, as the foothern states had
encouraged their navigation and fifheries. But
if this partial duty is to be prefled upon us in
this manner, I fliall not think it my duty, said he,
to be equally zealous in their favour in future.
Mr. Livermore observed, that several estimate s
had been offered to the committee—they cannot
be all right because they disagree. He observed
that itliad not been noticed by any person that
the,prefent duty on foreign rum would be taken
away by this bill, and the whole funi to bevaifed
from that article is from the bill now under con
sideration. But suppose a surplusage of revenue
of i or 200,000 dollars should be in the Treasury,
which I wi(h with all my heart may be the cafe,
are there not ways enough to apply this surplus
age to the advantage of the United States ! He
instanced a variety of ways in which such.a ftir
plus might be applied ; but he did not seriously
contemplate such a surplus. He then adverted
to the objection on account of the inequality.—
He said the duty on spirits diftillec! from rnolaf
fes is agreed to—why should not the spirits dis
tilled from peaches in the southern States be also
fiibjedl to a duty : This he confideredas unequal
—and discovered a want of candor in the gentle
men from the southward.
Mr. Parker aiked the gentleman if molasses
was an article of the produce of this country?
the southern Hates have nothing by which they
can procure molafles : If the gentleman would
confentto excise fifh, he would content to an ex
cise on peach brandy.
Mr. Fitzfimons observed, that the deficiency
occasioned by the alteration in the duty on fo
reign ruin, would occasion a very considerable
addition to the deficiency of the revenue. With
refpedt to theinequality mentioned, he said there
was no probability that the southern states would
ever pay an over proportion of the revenue.Mr. Williamfon stated certain particulars to
shew, that a just idea of the l\i m paid by North-
Carolina could not be known by any lhitements
from the public offices—their business is carried
on coaflwife—To judge of their confumptioii,
recourse must be had to the exportations of that
State—He said the exportations of North-Caro
lina amounted to a million of dollars annually.
Mr. Clymer said that a gentleman from Geor
gia had mentioned the averiioii that the people
of Pennsylvania bore to an excise law. Such a
law he observed had been in force in the date
for upwards of 50 or 60 years, and that the ex
cise officers were veiled with as much power as
it was propol'ed to give them by the bill before
the house ; that some resistance had been offer
ed to those officers acting in the line of their du
ty ; but that those who opposed tliein in the ex
ecution of their business were severely fined.—
He was not convinced that the duty which it
was proposed to lay on ipirits by the bill under
confuleration was odious to a majority of the
states ; —they mod of them had excise laws of
their own, and he conceived the present bill was
as well guarded as poflible, by wholfome provi
vifions against every objection—From the state
ments which had been produced, there would be
no great excess in the revenue, he apprehended;
but if there was, it would be well applied in les
sening the public debts.
Mr. Madison remarked on the observations of
Mr. Kitziimons, refpeifting the southern States
not paying their proportion of the Import : He
shewed that the trade of the southern states was
carried on by the eastern and northern States—
That theconfumption of the southern States was
proportioned to their numbers, and in this way
they bore their full proportion of the public bur
thens.
Mr. Jackson replied to Mr. Clymer, and said,
that if the people had been severely fined for a
breach of the Excise Law in this State, he had
been well informed, that the fine had, been as se
verely remitted.
The queition on striking out the 13th fecftion,
•was negatived— 33 to 17. Adjourned.
WEDNESDAY, Jan. 19.
A bill, declaring the aflentofCongrefstoa cer
tain act of the State of Maryland, being read a
second time, was referred to a committee of the
whole on Monday next.
Mr. Sedgwick, from the committee appointed
for that purpose, reported a bill, authorising the
President of the United States'to cause the debt
due to foreign officers,the interell whereon is now
payable in]Pnris, at the rate of 6 per cent, per an
3111m, to be paid and discharged—being read a
firft and second time, was referred to a committee
of the whole, and madethe order of the day for
to-morrow.
A letter from the Directors ofthe Library Com
pany of Philadelphia, making an offer of the use
of the Books in said Library to the Members of
both Koufes of Congress, was communicated by
the Speaker.
Mr. Huntington presented a memorial from
the Baptiii Aflociation in jthe State of Connecti
cut, requeuing the interposition of Congress to
prevent incorretfnefs in future editions of the
Bible,, published in the United States—read arid
laid on the table.
A petition from sundry surgeons and surgeon's
mates, in the ferviceof the United States, during
the late war, was read and referred to the Secre
tary at War.
A petition from William Devvees, and a peti
tion from William Blackledge, were referred to
the Secretary of the Treasury.
Another petition from the fame person, pray
ing that certain claims against the state of North
Carolina be discharged, was referred to the Se
cretary ofWar.
Mr. Fitzfnnons, from the committee appointed
to consider the petition of Jofliua Barney, late an
officer in the American navy, reported a resolu
tion, that a committee be appointed to prepare
and bring in a bill, to allow to Capt. Jofliua Bar
ney, the fuinof dollars.
Agreeable to the order of the day, the House
proceeded in the farther consideration of the a
mendnients proposed to the new Revenue Bill
A motion to recommit the bill was negatived : It
was then moved tore-commit the fourth feetion,
which fpecifies the compensations to the inspec
tors—this also was negatived : The debates were
spun out to a considerable length—but an ad
journment beingcalled for, the further consider
ation of the bill waspoftponed.
THURSDAY, Jan. 20.
Mr. Fitzlimons presented a memorial from the
merchants of Philadelphia, trading to India,and
China—praying that an additional duty may be
laid on all goods imported into the United States
from India or China in foreign bottoms—this was
read, and referred to the Secretary of the Trea-
A petition of Robert Mead was presented by
Mr. Lawrance, which was read, and referred to
i he Secretary of the Treasury.
A petition of C. and J. Sands, and W. Living
lion in behalf of themselves and afibciates, pray
ing compensation for damages sustained l»y a
contract, for supplying the army,with provisions
—read and referred to the Secretary of the
T re a fury.
A meilage was received fromthc Senate by Mr.
Otis, their Secretary —informing, that they have
palled a bill for incorporating the fubferibers to
the Bank of the United States.
The house resumed the confideratiou of the
amendments proposed to the new revenue bill —
and after some debate the latter part of the
fourth feAion, referring to the compensation of
the infpecftors, was struck out.
Amotion vvasagain made to re-commit the bill
generally to a fele(ft committee, this was loll—3o
to 27.
Mr. Lee then moved that it (hould be re-com
mitted for the purpose of inserting a clause devi
ftng a mode of colleifting the revenue—this was
negatived, 33 to 24.
Several amendments proposed by Mr. Fitzfi
nionswere adopted—Some letflions were expung
ed—The further consideration of the bill was
postponed till to morrow.
Mr. Sedgwick laid the followingmotion 011 tlie
table, that a committee be appointed to bring in
abill for making conipenfation to the inspeCtors
of the duties on diltilled spirits.
Mr. Tucker, Mr. Partridge, and Mr. Lee were
appoin ted a committee on the part of the House,
to join a committee of the Senate to consider of
and report a time for the commencement of the
next Congress. Adjourned.
FRIDAY, Jan. 21
The a£l !o incorporate the subscribers to the hank of the United
States received f»om the Senate yesterday, was read the firft and
lecond time, and referred to a committee of the whole houle on
WVdnefday next,
Mr. Madison prcfcntcd the petition of W. C. Webb and Con
yers Wythe, which was read and referred to the Secretary of the
Treasury.
Mr. William Ton reported a bill for preventing the invalid pen
sioners from felling their perifions before they fha'il bicome due ;
read a firll and second time, and made the Older of trie day on
Thursday next,
Mr. Sedgwick's motion for a committee to bring in a bill to
jrovidefor the compensation of the infpc&ors of the duties on
distilled spirits, was taken into consideration, and a committee
consisting of McfTrs. Sedgwick, Madison and Lawrance was ap
pointed.
The house proceeded in the confederation of the amendments
proposed to the bill laying duties on distilled fpiriis.
A motion was made by Mr. Jackson, in the following words :
And be it further enafled, That if any infpeSor or other officer or
pcijon concerned in the colleflion of the revenue to be rased by this a£l t
shall, by word, mejfage or writing, or in any other manner whatfuever,
perftade or endeavor to persuade, an Eleflor to give, or dijjuade or en
deavor to dijjuade anyJ rom giving his vote for the choice oj any person to
be a member of the House of Rcprejentatives, member of the Senate, or
President of the United States —such infpetlor ot other Jo ojfend
ing, shall be forever d fabled from holding an office under this att t and
shall be fubjecl to a penalty of dollars.
This motion occahoned a lengthy debate. The yeas and nays
being required by Mr. Jackson, were, Ayrs 21 —Nays 37. Tie
further confederation of the bill was poftponcd till to-moriOA'.
A message was received from the Senate by Mr. Otis their Se
cretary, informing that they have concurred in the vote of the
house, in appointing a committee on their part to confiderand re
port a time for the commencement of the next Congrcfi.
Adjourned till to-moirow.
MR. FEN NO,
I CALLED this morning for the firft time, to hear the proceed
ings of the House of Representatives ot the Itate of Pennsyl
vania ; and was much surprised to find them warmly engaged in
a business that iu my humble opinion ; and I believe in the o
pinion of their constituents generally, they had no more to do
with than with the King ot Great-Britain's late fpcech to both
House* of Parliament.
The contention was about palling a sett of resolutions said to le
late to a law pending in the house of representatives of the United
States, refpefting revenue. Nopeifon will pretend to qucltion
the right of the house in exprefling their sentiments on the public
measures of the national legiHature ; but in the present cafe, I very
much question if there wasa neceflity for such caution, and much
more the propriety of the mode of cxcrcifing it.
We trufh it will never be disputed that the Aflembly of a free
State have a right to bear testimony against any law,that is " e!\ab
liftied upon principles, subversive ot the peace, liberty, and rights
of its citizens but did the 'gentlemen, who offered the refolu
t ons, make it appear that tnc proposed law was founded on luch
principles, or that it would have such a tendency ? I believe it
will be acknowledged, they did not, either in the debates or
otherwise, only by an indirect charge or insinuation, contained on
the face of the resolutions. If there was real caufc of complaint,
why not come forward and remonstrate boldly and openly ; and
if there was no cauf.-, why found an alarm, and take'up so much
time about a visionary evil that did notexift ?
If popularity was theobjeft the gentlemen had in view, the good
fenfeot the people of Pennsylvania will certainly difappoini them ;
for it is not to bo doubted, that they h3ve as well-founded a con
fidence in their representatives in the one body as in the other.
It is notorious that the members of that body, with regard t »
whose conduct and vjews too manv endeavoi to promote jcaloufy
and aiwruft, have at all times evinced the most sacred regard to the
rights and liberties of the people; and from their means of obtaining
information, are more likely to be able to judge on qutftions which
have for their objefct the general intcrefts of the nation.
Philadelphia, Jan. 20, 1791. A PENNSYL.VANIAN.
Philadelphia, Jan. 22.
The advocates of the present government, be
fore it was adopted by the people, were thought
to be very sanguine in their anticipation of the
blefli ngs which would result from its establish
ment. It has turned out on the trial, however,
that the event has exceeded the expeiflation—more
is perhaps fulfilled than was promised : But many
who allow that our situation was deplorable be
fore the union was secured by the new govern
ment, and that it is at present more prosperous
than the mod sanguine could then have expeift-
715
Ed, yet will not give all the credit of the change
to the new Conititution. But a correfpondenc
thinks it ufeful to remark, that there is one point
in which all parties may agree, which is, that
whether the surprising prosperity of the country
is, or is not, in any degree, the work of the na
tional government, it is plain, that nothing can
secure the continuance of that prosperity but the
preservation of the government : Weakening the
government, or overthrowing it, would imme
diately change the condition ;;nd prof'pedts of the
people. While we enjoy lb much, and hope lb
much more than we enjoy, we lhould reverence
our government, and conlider any attempt to ex
cite the people to deftrny ir, as more injuriousto
our wealth, than the Heflian Fly in our wheat
fields. That infecft attacks but one grain, and
not every species of that : But anarchy and civil
discord spare nothing. The infetft takes the feed
—violence would seize the crop. The adoption
of the Conflitution saved us from these evils : By
fupportingic we may hope in future to avoid them.
Before the Constitution was adopted, itw2s chargcd with tend-
ing to oppreflion and tyranny : A man who believed all that he
had heard against it, mull have expefled in 1791, to wear wooden
Ihoes, and to want spirit to fay his foul was his own. How
things are changed ! The government has been tried : And
what is fa id against it now ?—That itdoes injustice ? No : But
that it docs more than justice exatts of it.—lt pays debts, which
fay the accusers, it did not owe ; but which are allowed to be ho
nestly due—which on fettling the accounts, this government flood
bound to pay, and which the worthy creditors would have been
likely to lose, if it h:«d not consented to admit, without delay.—
So much for its tyranny, and treading on men's rights and proper--
ty. Now for its oppreflion : Why ; that its revenue is foam
pie, that new taxes are declared to be fuperfluous. Americans,
you have tried your government : You have tried to do without
one : —Which do you like best ?
A correspondent obfeves, that agreeable to the {ketch of the
debates in the Pennsylvania house of Representatives, as publifhcd
in Mr. Dunlap's paper—the cause of the union, io far as it de -
pends on revenue to support it, is in a very sickly condition.—A
torrent of oratorical declamation in favor of interfering'with the
legislature ot the United States, is countera&ed by a few detached
sentences ; and the " indujlry" of an individual tcderalift only—
it even appears that when called upon to give their reasons, the
federalifts do " not offer any particular arguments."
It appears to be the general wish of the legislatures of the seve
ral states, thatthe debates of the Senate of the United States flvmid
be public.— North-Carolina, Virginia, Pennsylvania, and New-
York have that fentimrnt.
Accordin? to some recent resolutions pafled in the lcgiflatures
of particulai fiatcs—we appear to be in a fair way to get rid of
•he cxpence of supporting a federal government ; efpeciallv as
the work oflegiflation for the whole union appears to be bett.i un
derstood, by detached bodiw than by i!ie concentered wifcom of
the Rates—even in the opinion ol some who are sworn
the federal constitution,
We hear from, Albany that the contention of Vermont made a
houfc on the 6th inft. in order-to deliberate upon the adoption of
the Constitution of the United States. From the degree of unani
mity which appeared among the members, it is (fays the Albany
account)probable that they adopted the constitution on Saturday,
the Bth instant.
The Governor of this state has been pleased to appoint Alexa n
ander James Dallas. F.fo. hi* STreiarv.
PRICE CURRt.NI'. PUBI.IC SECURITIES
FUNDED DIET
6 pr. Cmts 17/4. V- £
3 pr. Cents of.
Defercd 6 pr. Cents 9/4.
UN FU NDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificates 1 sfg. do.
Indents of. 45 do.
N. and S. Carolina, debtsj 11J. 11f&. do.
WANTEIJ, TWO OR MORE
Convenient ROOMS,
in Chefnut-Street, or as near the Bank as poflible. Enquire of
the Printer. (rptf.)
South-Carolina Lands for Sale,
ABOUT one hundred mile?? from Charleftonf'for any kind of
Goods. One third part of 63 Tra&s of Land, containing
51,900 acres, lying nea 1 the rivers of Savannah, Big and Little Salt
Cohachees, and the fork of the Edifto : These Lands are a
dark, or a copper-coloured foil, in an inhabited part of the State.
Also 5 tra&s of Land in Ninety-Six diftrift, 4 in Orangeburg dif
trift, 6 m Camden, all containing 7,600 acres, all good land, with
streams of water running through them. These Lands will be fold
so low, that a man may make his fortune in buying them, for the
purpose of felling them again, as emigrants are naily arriving there
from Europe, to fettle.
Duplicate Plots and Grants maybe seen, and indisputable titles
will be given by the fubferiber. FREDERICK KING.
Morri,
}owv, Jan. 1791
Forty Dollars Reward.
LOST by the Subscriber, on the 12th day of January 1791, b<"-
tweeii Penollopon and Freehold, in the county of Monmouth,
and State of New-Jersey, the following Ortificatcs, i filled by the
said State, to fundi y Soldiers, for the three-fourth parts of the de
preciation of their pay ; all of which are signed by John Stevens,
jun. Treasurer, and countersigned by James Ewing, Auditor, viz,
No. Dated, Payable to
323 June 26, 1781, Powel Alston,
399 January 27, do. Jacob Long,
593 J Line 29, do. Oliver Cromwell,
664. J t|nc 30, do. James Kinfey,
740 July 2, do. George Long,
869 ,ufy 4, do. Ananias Clark,
938 July 30, do. Samuel Dotey,
1060 March 20, 1782, Ephraim Patten,
1128 August 8, do. James Coullion,
11 33 August 8, do. Moses Thompson,
12 3° January 27, A fa Gilderfleavcs,
1237 April 9, do. Michael Lane,
841 July 4, 1781, James Clark,
Any person who may have found the said Certificates, and will
retuinthem to the fublcriber,living at Penolloponaforefaidjlhall re
ceive the above reward ; and in proportion for any part of them
which may be returned.
All perfor.sare hereby cautioned against purChasing any of the
above Certificates, as payment is flopped at the public office?.
If anvof tbem Ihould be offered for fale,the person to whom they
are offered is rerjueftcd to stop the fame, and give notice thereof
to their humble servant. KENNfcTIi HANKLNSON.
Monmouth Ceurty, Nero J<fn. 15, 1791.
86J pr. rent. ■
45 Ho.
46J do..
(77 —6wiw.)
Amount.
£.6o 8 o
30 16 io£
60 8 Q
57 12 6
5 4 li
3 • 2 4i"
1 30 7 6|
3< *3 9
30 7 io§
a s° 5 94
63 7 .54
61 16 io£
4 '7 '°iis
*
TREASURY DEPARTMENT,!
Deambir 13, 1790. J
In obedience to the order of the House of Re
presentatives of" the prb Day of August lad,
requiring the Secretary of the Treasury
to prepare and report, on this Day, luch fur
ther Provision as may, in his opinion, be ne
ceflary for establishing the PUBLIC CREDIT
—the said Secretary further
Respectfully reports,
(continued from our last.)
TO procure for the landholders the afliftance of loans, is the
great deftderatum. Suppofingother diiSculties lurmounted,
and a fund created, composed partly of coin and partly of land,
vet the benefit contemplated could only then be obtained, by the
bank's advancing them its notes for the whole, or part, of the va
lue of the lands they had subscribed to the flock. If this advance
"was small, the relief aimed at would not be given ; if it was
large, the quantity of notes iflued would be a cause of diftruji, and
if received at all, they would be likely to return speedily upon the
bank for payment ; which, after exhausting its coin, might be
under a neceflity of turning its lands into money, at any price that
could be obtained for them, tf> the irreparable prejudice of the
proprietors.
Confiderationsof public advantage fugged a further wifh,wh'ch
is, thar the bank could be established upon principles, that would
cause the profits of it to redound to the immediate benefit of the
State. This is contemplated by many, who speak of a national
bank, but the idea seems liable to insuperable obje&ions. To at
tach full confidenceto an institution of this nature, it appears to
be an eflential ingredient in its ftru&ure, that it shall be under a
private not a public dire&ion, under the guidance of individual in
tcrejl, not of public policy ; which would be supposed to be, and in
certain emergencies, under a feeble or too fauguine administra
tion, would really be, liable to being too much influenced by
public ncccfjity. The suspicion of this would probably be a canker,
that would continually corrode the vitals of the bank, and would
be molt likely to prove fatal in those situations, in which the
public good would require, that they should be moll found and
vigorous. It would indeed be little less than a miracle, (hould
the credit of the bank be at the disposal of the government if in a
longferiesof time, there was not experienced a calamitous abuse
of it. It is true, that it would be the real interefl of the govern
ment not to abuse it ; its genuine policy to husband and cherilh
it with the moll guarded circumfpeftion, as an inestimable trea
lure. But what government ever uniformly consulted its tiue in
terests, in opposition to the temptationsof momentary exigencies ?
What nation was ever bleffec? with a constant fuccellion of up
right and wife administrators ?
The keen, steady, and as it were magnetic sense of their own
interest as proprietors, in the dire&ors of a bank, pointing in
variably to its true pole, the prolperity of the institution, is the
only security that can always be relied upon for a careful and pru
dent administration. It is therefore the only basis on which an
enlightened, unqualified and permanent confidence can be expeft
cd to beere&ed and maintained.
The precedents of the banks eftabiifhed in several cities of Eu
rope, Amsterdam, Hamburgh and others, may seem to militate
against this position. Without a precise knowledge of all the pe
culiarities of their refpe&ive constitutions, it is difficult to pro
nounce how far this may be the cafe. That of Amsterdam how
ever, which we bell know is rather under a municipal than a go
vernmental direction. Particulai magillrates of the city, not of
ficers of the republic, have the management of it. It is also a
bank of deposit, not of loan, or circulation; consequently less
liable to abuse, as well as less ufeful. Its general business con-
fills in receiving money for fafe keeping, which if not called for
within a certain time, becomes a part of its flock, and irreclaim
able : But a credit is given for it on the books of the bank, which
being transferable, anfweis all the purposes of money.
The dire&ors being magistrates of the city, and the stockholders
in general its most influential citizens, it is evident, that the prin
ciple of private interest mud be prevalent in the management of
the bank. And it is equally evident, that from the nature of its
operations, that principle is less essential to if, than to an institu
tion constituted with a view to the accommodation of the public
and individuals, by dire£l loans and a paper circulation.
As far as may concern the aid of the bank, within the proper li
mits, a good government has nothing more to wifli for, than it
•will always poflefs ; though the management be in the hands of
private individuals. As the institution, if rightly constituted, mull
depend for its renovation from time to time on the pleasure of the
government, it will not be likely to feel a disposition to render it
felf by its condufl unworthy of public patronage. The govern
ment too, in the administration of its finances, has it in its power
to reciprocate benefits to the bank, of not less importance than
those which the bank affords to the government, and which be
sides are never unattended with an immediate and adequate com
pensation. Independent of these more particular confederations,
the natural weight and influence of a good government will al
ways go far towards procuring a compliance with its desires; and
as the directors will usually be compoied of some of the moll dis
creet, refpc£lable and well-informed citizens, it can hardly ever
be difficult to make them sensible of the force of the inducements
•which ought to stimulate their exertions.
It will not follow from what has been said, that the state may
not be the holder of a part of the {lock of a bank, and confequerit
ly a sharer in the profits of it. It will only follow that it ought
not to desire any participation in the direction of it, aud therefore
ought not to own the whole or principal part of the flock ; for if
the mass of their property fliould belong to the public, and if the
direction of it should be in private hands, this would be to com
mit the interests of the state to persons not interested, or not
enough interested in their proper management.
There is one thing, however, which the government owes to it
felf and to the community ; at least to all that part of it, who are
not stockholders; which is to reserve to itfelf a right of ascertain
ing, as often as may be neceftary, the ftite of the bank, excluding
however all pretention to controul. This right forms an article in
the primitive constitution of the bank of North-America ; and its
propriety stands upon the eleareft reasons. If the paper of a bank
is to be permitted to insinuate itfelf into all the icvenues and re
ceipts of a country ; if it is even substituted for gold and fiJver in
all the tranfattions of business, it becomes in either view a nati
onal concern of the firft magnitude. As such, the ordinary rules
of prudence require, that the government should poflefs the means
of ascertaining, whenever it thinks fit, that so delicate a trust is ex
ecuted with fidelity and care. A right of this nature is not only
defirabJe as it refpe£ls the government; but it ought to be equally
so to all thofc concerned in the institution; as an additional title
to public and private confidence; and as a thing which can only
be formidable to practices that imply mismanagement. The pre
emption mull always be, that the c.hara6lers who would be en
trusted with the exercise of this right on behalf of the govern
ment, will not be deficient in the discretion which it may require;
at least the admitting of this presumption cannot be deemed too
great a return of confidence tor that very 1 rge portion of it which
the government is required to place in the bank.
Abandoning therefore ideas, which however agreeable or desi
rable, are neither pra&icable nor fafe; the following plan for the
constitution of a National Bank, is refpe£tfuiiy submitted to the
confidcration of the house.
[For this plan, fee No. 69 ef this Gazette.'}
(To be concluded in our next.)
THE Copartnership of HEWES and ANTHONY having ex
pired the 31ft ultimo, they request thofc, who have any de
mands, to exhibit their accounts and receive their money ; and
tliofe who are indebted, are desired to make fpcedy payment, to
either of the Subscribers, at their Compting-Houfe, No. 5, Ctie.-
nut-Street-Wharf. J O S I A H HEWES,
JOSEPH ANTHONY.
Philadelphia, Jan. 15, 1791
N. B. They have yet on hand, and for SALE, at their STORE
abovementioned,
HYSON, Souchong, and Boliea TEAS,
Three cases Caflia,
Pimento in bags,
Muscovado Sugar,
A few Cases old Batavia Arrack,
One cask of Durham Mustard,
New England Rum in hogflieads and barrels,
A quantity ot prime Boston Beef,
Spermaceti, right whale and tanners' Oil,
Beit pickled Mackrel, _ .
6by 8— 7 by 9 —8 by 10 —9 by 11 —and 10 by 12 Window
Glass,
A quantity of excellent carrot Tobacco,
And an elegant CHANDELIER.
New Line of Stages.
THE Subscriber has eftabliftied a line of STAGES from Hart
ford to Boston, by way of Norwich and Providence, which
will run thro twice a week during the Winter Season, and three
times a week during the Summer Season.
Carriages. Horses, and careful Drivers are provided.
PalTengers pay three Pence per Mile, and are allowed 14 pound
Baggage each. Extra Baggage pays at the rate of three Pence
per Mile for every 150 wt. As the Mail is to go in these St3ges
for the year 1791, fixed hours for starting from the refpe&ive Stage
Houles is absolutely neceffary—from which there can be no devia
tion. Norwich, Dec. 14, 1790.
The Stage for the Eastward leaves
Hartford Mondays and Thursdays,
Norwich Tuesdays and Fridays,
Providence Wednesdays and Saturdays,
For the Westward, leaves Boston Mondays and Thursdays,
Providence Tuesdays and Fridays,
Norwich Wednesdays and Saturdays.
69 —lwgm
MASSACHUSETTS STATE LOTTERY.
THE Managers afthe STATE LOTTERY, present the Public
with the First C'.afs of the Majfachufetts semi-annual State Lot
tery, which will commencedrawingin the Representatives' Chamber,
in Boston, on the Seventeenth of March next, or sooner, if the
Tickets ftiall be disposed of.
SCHEME.
NOT TWO BLANKS TO A PRIZE,
25,000 Tickets, at Five Dollars each, are
125,000 Dollars, to be paid in the following Prizes, lubjeft to a
dedu&ion of twelve and an half percent, for the use of the Com
monwealth.
Prizes.
1 of
2
3
6
10
30
80
90
100
120
161
200
7585
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks.
2 5000,
US* TICKETS may be had of the several Managers, who wil
pay the Prizes On deihand—of the TREASURER oftbe Common
wealth—of JAMES WHITE, at his Book-Store, Franklin's-Head
Court-Strcet t and at other places as usual.
BENJAMIN AUSTIN, jun.l
DAVID COBB, |
SAMUEL COOPER, y Managers.
GEORGE R. MINOT, '
JOHN KNEELAND, J
Bojlon, Jul) 28, 8790.
(J3* Tickets in the above Lottery are to be Jold by Stephen At; it in
corner of Front and Pine Streets, Philadelphia.
PLEASE TO NOTICE.
id" FOR the accommodation of those who would
wifb to become Adventurers in the First Class of the
MassachusettsSe mi-annual St ate Lottery,
letters, port paid, directed to Samuel Cooper, at
his Office, North fide State-House, Boflon, enclofiug
Philadelphia, New-Tork or Boftort B auk-Bills , or
other good Bills, will be particularly attended to t and
Tickets forwarded immediately upon the receipt oj
such letters.
Boston, Dec. 22, 1790,
N. B. A Lift of Prizes will be deposited with the
Printer hereof, immediately after the drawing is
compleated. 71 iaw tf
Henry Kuhl,
At No. 143, Second-Street, near Race-Street,
BY advice of his friends in New-York and Philadelphia, has
opened an office for thcpurpofc of buying and felling, on com
million, the different species of Stock, and of liquidated and unliqui
dated paper in the market.
He will obtain such Certificates as are required by the funding
lazy, for those who have unliquidated Securities ; and transjci (lock
from and to the Treasury and the Oflices of the Commifliouers erf
Loans, on moderate terms.
Having lor fcveral years past been employed in the Treasury of
the United States', he is well acquainted with its operations and
forms ; and flatters himCelfthat on that (core he has a decided ad
vantage in tranfatting business here. Heis fully imprefied with
the truth of the adage that " difparch is the foul of business," and
will always make the interest of his employers an object of the
firft importance. *
Philadelphia, December 29th, 1790.
(£3T Subfcribcrs for Mrs. Warren's Poems, are requejlcdto call on the
Editor fort he ir boohs.
716
Martinico Coffee,
(eaw6w.)
JESSE BROWN.
Dollars.
10000 is
3000 are
2000
1000
500
200
100
5°
40
3°
20
10
8
AMERICAN CLOTHS.
SUPERFINE and ELASTICS,
CONGRESS BROWN,
LONDON SMOKE,
LEAD DRAB,
BLUE and OTHER fafhionable Colours,
Mjnufa&ured it Hartford, (State of Connecticut,) juil received,
and are now offered for Sale, at the
CHEAP STORE, No. 38,
North Third Street,
At which Store are also opening a large and general afTortrncm of
EUROPEAN and INDIA GOODS.
CL'OTHS,
Linens,
Painted, sprigged, tambour
ed book, and jaconet Muslins,
Chintzes,
Cottons and Calicoes,
Silks,
And many other Articles, too numerous to insert in an Advcr
tifement ; all of which are now felling by Wholefilc and Retail, oa
so low terms, as to make them an object to the purchasers.
N. B. A few Barrels of MACKAREL, and Nova-Scotia
HERRINGS. Philadelphia, Jan. 12. 1791.
EBENEZER HAZARD and JONAS ADDOMShave entered
into partnerftiip, and opened an OFFICE, at No. 173. in
Market-Street, a few doors above Fourth-Street, where, under the
Firm of
Hazard and Addoms,
They purchase and fell all kinds of
CERTIFICATES—PAPER MONEY, and BANK
N. B. Transfers made at the Public Offices, and Bu fin ess in ge
neral tranfa&ed on Commiflion. December 29.
By JOHN TRUMBULL,
For Publ Ishlng by Subscription,
TWO PRINTS,
From original Piflures painted, by kinje)f;
One representing the Death of General WARREN,
at the Battle of Bunker's-Hi//.
Theother, the Death of General MONTGOMERY,
in the Attack of Quebec.
IN the battle of Bunker's-Hill, the following Portraitsare intro
duced—
American,
Major General Warren, Gen. Sir Wi lli am Howe,
Putnam. Sir Henry Clinton,
Lieut. Col. John Small,
Major Pitcairn, and
Lieut. Pitcairn.
In the Attack of Quebec, arc seen—
General Montgomfry, Colonel Thompson,
Major Macphkrson, and Capr. Cheesma n.
CONDITIONS OF SUBSCRIPTION.
Dollars,
10000
600 c
6000
6000
6000
8000
4
4crco
3600
3220
20C0
60680
The prints will be engraved by two of the most eminent artifls
in Europe. The size will be 30 inches by 20, The price to sub
scribers, Three Guineas for each print; one half to be paid at the
time of fubferibing, the remainder on the delivery of the prints,
which will be as soon as the wor.k (which is already confidcrably
advanced) can poflibly be completed.
Subscriptions are received in this city by Joseph Anthony %
jun. Goldsmith and Jeweller, No. 76, Market-ftrcet.
Th'ef* prints are the firft of a series, in which it is proposed to
reprcfent the most important events of the American Revolution.
125000
No period of the history of man, is more interesting than that
in which we have lived. The memory of scenes in which were
laid the foundations of that free government, which fecurcs our
national and individual happiness, must ever remain dear to us,
and to posterity ; and if national pride be in any cafe juftifiable,
Americans have a right to glory in having given to the world an
example, whose influence is rapidly fprcading the love of free
dom through other nations, and every where ameliorating the
condition of men.
To afliftin preserving the memory of the illuflrious events which
have marked this period of our country's glory, as well as of the
men who have been the most important a&ors in them, is the ob
je& of this undertaking History will do justice to an sera so im
portant ; but to be read, the language in which it is wrinen must
be understood—the language of painting is universal, and intelli
gible in all nations, and every age.
As several years of bis time, and a very considerable expencc,
are necelTary to accomplish this undertaking, it would bean im
prudent facrilice to the mere hope of reputation to go more deeply
into it, without a probability of ultimate success :—That he may
judge of the degree of this probabilitv, Mr. Trumbull, by the ad
vice of his friends, proposes this fubfeription, and flatters himfelf
with a hope 0/ meeting that patronage from his countrymcn,
which will juftify his pursuing the object with ardor; and with
out which it is importable that so expensive a work fliould be con-
tinued
The fubje&s proposed to be reprefented,in addition to the two
foregoing, of Bunker's-Hill and Quebec are—
* The Declaration of Independence,
* Battle at Trenton,
* Battle of Prince town,
Surrender of General Bur gov ne,
Treaty with France,
Battle of Eutaw Sprincs,
* Surrender of York-Town,
Treaty of Peace,
Evacuation of New-York,
Resignation of General Washington,
The Arch at Trenton,
Inauguration of the President of the United States.
Each pidture will contain portraits of the principal charaftrrs
who were present at the scene represented, Those marked with
liars, are coniiderably advanced ; and the prints from the whole
will be executed of the fame size, and by the most eminent cr.-
gravers.
Wanted, a good Cook,
either Man or Woman.—- -Enquire at No. 209, Second-Street,,
opposite the New-Market.
(jdT THE Sub bribers Jor this paper, in the city of New-York,
are rcjpeflfully informed, that the charge of the papers proving inconve
nient to Mr. Wctmore, at the PoJi-Off.ee, the Editor has engaged Mr.
Samuel Campbell, Book-feller, Hanover-Square, to receive them ar.i
superintend their delivery—by whom Subfcnptions and arrearages w. -
be received.
(£s* The price oj this paper is 3 dollars per annum
ELEGAS'T Vest Patterns—
adapted to ihe fcofon,
Silk, Cotton, and Worftcd
Hose,
Corduroys,
Veivcrctrs, and Royal Ribs,
Bcft Buck, Braver, and Yl'luie
Kidd Gloves,
A Variety of STUFFS.
STOCK
PROPOSALS,
Britijh,