dWtfe
[No. LXXVII.j
THE TABLET.
No. LXXVII.
<t j4 n ignorant people cannot long pre/erve freedom."
HOW then are savages free ? They are
so by nature. The liberty of a lavage,
and that of a civilized man are essentially differ
ent. Civil liberty implies both restraint and pro
tection ; but a lavage is neither protected nor
reltrained. Where there is no government at
all, men are literally free ; but from a want of
law, they cannot enjoy their freedom. Where
there is a defpoticgovernment, the people, though
they are politically slaves, are not in a worse con
dition, than savages who remain as free as nature
formed them.
There cannot, ftriiftly speaking, be any ration
al freedom, without fixed laws. There can be
no such laws, where there is no civilization. As
an ignorant people cannot be called civilized, they
will not have the protection of law, and therefore
Ihould not be deemed free.
Intracingtlie decline of States, wearepre
fenced with a melancholly picflure of human weak
liefs. The splendor and pageantry of courts, the
opulence and artifice of a few individuals, in an
arbitrary government, dazzle the ignorant mul
titude, and create a glare of civilization, while
themafs of the people are too unenlightened to
be called civilized. No nation deserves such an
appellation, where knowledge and property are
confined to a few hands ; any more than that de
serves to be called a learned nation,in which a few
individuals have made eminent attainments in
science. The prevailing cast of chara<sler, among
the people at large, is what should conftiuite the
national character.
As an ignorant people must either be (laves or
barbarians, we conclude that a well-informed peo
ple can be neither. The mofl conspicuous ad
vantage of difFufive knowledge through the com
munity is, that it puts the citizens on their guard
againlt the blunders oft he weak, and the intrigues
of the artful. It mull: be owned, that ambition
and avarice prevail in an enlightened society, as
well as in a barbarous one. But where the people
have so much knowledge that they can fairly cf
timate characters and measures, they will not ea
filybe duped by falfe profeffions, norintimidated
by bold menaces. They will bear what ought
to be borne, notwithftaiuling clamorous men may
try to blow up sedition ; and such people likewil'e
will refill: what ought to be refilled, notwithstand
ing arbitrary rulers may charge them with rebel
lion. The public opinion will be julfc and ref
peiflable. It will controul, not so much the exe
cution, as the formation of the laws.
If the people of any country are generally un
informed, they cannot adt in concert. They will
judge differently of men and measures, and there
will be no method of producing a union of senti
ment. A bitter spirit of party will inevitably
attend such a fitvtation, and public liberty will
expire in the rage of fadlion. This difafler can
never happen in a community where there is ge
neral information. The attempts of turbulent,
or intriguing men will be comprehended, and
their views defeated, before any dangerous ef
fetfts are produced.
EUROPE.
VIENNA, Odober 8.
AN officer, dispatched by Field Marflial Prince
Potemkin, 011 the 16th of Sept. lias brought
intelligence to the Ruffian Ambaflador here, that
the vanguard of the army commanded by Lieut.
Gen. Prince of Anhalt-Bernburg, had attacked
and entirely defeated a body of Turki/h Caufcan
a Ihort distance from Bender. The Turks were
under the command ofHaflan Pacha, who com
manded as Seralkier near Rahaja-Mohifo, in the
last campaign. The Pacha, with several officers
ofdiftincftion, and upwards of toomeii, made
prisoners, and about 700 left dead on the field.
The enemy's camp,and three pieces of cannon fell
into the hands of the vidtors.
The fame officer also brought a confirmation of
the nen'sof the victory obtained by Prince Rep
nin, a few days before, nearTodak, in Beflarabia,
over Gazze. Haflan Pacha, late High Admiral, and
now Seralkier, who was attacked and defeated in
such a manner as to be obliged to abandon his
camp, with his cannon, to the conquerors, and to
retreat, with the reft of his troops, towards If
mail.
A courier who returned some days ago from the
army of Marffial de Saxe-Cobourg, brought the
news of the Ruffians having taken the port of
Akierman on the Black Sea, and made 1 JOO priso
ners there.
W EDNESDAY January 6, 1790.
I FRANCE.
Paris, Oc r t. 23.
MR. NECKER's STATUE.
ON its being known, that this statue was or
dered by the city of Paris, the Sculptor to
the King, sent the following letter
To the ASSEMBLY of the REPRESENTATIVES
of the Town oj PARIS.
" Gentlemen,
" YOU add to all that you have done for the
happiness and glory of your country, in decree
ing a Bull to the most deserving Minister of
France. You have ordained, that this bust shall
be placed where you are daily and nightly occu
pied in attempting to promote the happiness of
your fellow-citizens. Permit an artist, full of
refpeift and gratitude for your patriotic virtues,
to claim the honor of afliftingyou by making the
bust of M. Necker. M. Houdon has already
had t he honor of making those of WASHINGTON
and of that young HERO, the friend of Wash
ington, deflined to be thedefender oflibertyin
the two worlds. M. Houdon demands only a
piece of marble ; and he shall feel fufficiently re
compensed if the Commons permit him to dedi
cate his poor talents to the celebration of a great
man, and of those who have acquitted their duty
to the public, in decreeing M. Necker an honor,
which no Minister, before him, ever received
from the town of Paris.
(Signed) M. HOUDON."
This address has been fuccefsful, and the wish
es of M. Houdon are accomplished.
PATRIOTIC DONATIONS.
Lift of the names of those who sent the greatest
quantity of silver to the French Mint.
* Marks.
The King, in gold 230 3
Ditto, in silver, 9442 2
The Queen, ditto, 3607 3
Monsieur, ditto, 2401 o
The King's Aunt, ditto, 1334 7
Madame, ditto, 1 31 5 2
The Queen, a second time, ditto 144S 5
Cout Montmorin, ditto, 1236 7
Duchis, a Notary, ditto, p- 6to 7
Marshal deContades, ditro, * 522 2
Vandenyver, a Banker, ditto, 1
Duke de Noailles, ditto, 545 6
Count de la Luzerne, ditto, 528 4
Marquis de la Taluro, ditto; 477 3
Prince de Beauveau, ditto, 1
M. Necker, ditto, 5
Count d'Eftaing, ditto, 44 1 2
Marquis de la Fayette, ditto, 418 2
Count de St. Priest, ditto, 4°7 4
Mole, a President, ditto, 2
Keeper of the Seals, ditto, 1
DeParfcoal, ditto, 296 5
Marfiial de Segur, 258 2
Countess de Maurepas, ditto, 1 43 7
* The value oj a Mark, in fiver, ii about 9 dollars.
In times of public diltrefs, sumptuary laws
were imposed in Rome, and even the fair (ex
were prohibited from wearing costly ornaments.
A Censor was always appointed at such times,
who was invested with the highest restraining au
thority. The elder Cato strove to restrain the
luxury of the times, but corruption and an in
flux of foreign wealth and plunder, in a great
measure prevented his endeavors. When the
Statewas in distress, all ranks and denominations
of people exerted their utmost endeavors to re
lieve it, by public fubferiptions, and giving in
their jewels, plate and rings to the treasury, as
the French are doing atprefent. Tliediftrefs of
that republic arose not from debt, the funded
fylteni not being then pratflifed, but from the ca
lamities of war, as when the city was taken by
the Gauls, or during the war with the Carthagi
nians, when Hannibal commanded. The Empe
rors, however, laviflied their public treasures,
which the Consuls dared not to do, and then the
coffers were filled with confifcations and wanton
cruelties.
Sunday, o<ft. 26.
If we may judge from the quiet of the capital,
the Martial Law has already had so good an effec r t,
as not only to have difperled the large bands of
rioters, but to make people a little more cautious
in giving their opinions publicly, and fomenting
disturbances. _ r
The King and Queen with great tenderneis,
sent the Duke de LTancourt to condole with the
poor widow of the Baker, and offer her a present
of 6000 livres, to enable her to carry on her bu
siness, and that if this sum was not fufhcient, lhe
should have more. .
Their maiefties remain at the Thuilleries,as be
fore, they stir out but little, the King now and
\Publifhed tin Wednesday ami Saturday.
then takes a walk in the Gardens bat the Queen
is never seen out of the Palace.
1 he last letters from Stockholm bring an ac
count of an action having happened at Avolax,
in Finland, on the 9th ult. between the corps un
der general Stodingk, and a body of Ruffians.
In the firft oiifet the Ruffians made themselves
mailers of the two batteries belonging to the
Swedes ; but they afterwards not only retook them
butdrove the Ruffians off, who loft too in killed,
40 wounded and prisoners; among thelatter, are
5 officers. The Swedes loss is 13 killed and
wounded ; amongst the latter are two captains.
One subaltern officer, and two of their artillery
were taken prisoners.
The National Aflembiy of France have resol
ved, in opposition to the motion of M. de Mira
beau, that no member of the National Aflembiy
lhall hold any place in the adminiflration, dur
ing the present session.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY.
October 2,
The archbiffip of Aix made an offer to the na
tion, in the name of the clergy, of the greatest
supply that ever was voted at one time, by any
body of men to any state, 011 condition that the
clergy Ihould not be difpoflefled of the church
lands. He offered to raise on the security of the
church lands a supply of thirteen million sterl
ing, which the clergy were willingto facrifice to
the public, Exclusive of this temporary aid, he
offered to charge the church lands in perpetuity
with the payment of two millions of livres per
month,or one million sterling a year. This tempt
ing offer was reje<sled by the National Assem
bly ; and the resolution was palled, which, if
carried into effedt, will be the greatest blow ever
given to the power of the clergy, whom it will
render dependant upon the state, after having
been so long a terror to it.
October 6.
M. de Mirabeau, in a long speech on the scar
city of money, and the discredit of the public
funds, endeavoured to point out the causes from
which they had originated, and the mischievous
consequences which they had produced. To the
discredit of the public funds, the great reputar»»**
of Mi Necker had very materTany contributed ;
lor the public feeing a Minister of such talents
obliged to have recourse to the expedient of sus
pending payments at the Caifle d' Efcompte, im
mediately concluded that all other resources were
loft. Hence, every man, who got poileffion of
specie, either hid it in his strong box, orfent it
out of the country, to be invested in foreign
funds. From the scarcity of specie, and the dis
credit of paper currency, had arisen, in a great
measure, thefcarcity of corn ; because the farmer
chol'e rather to keep his corn, than to fell for bills
with which he could not pay his servants. As a
means of alleviating this latter evil, he suggested
an expedient, which, though distant, might never
theless be highly beneficial. '• We have," said he,
<( advanced conliderable sums to rescue the Ame
ricans from slavery, and we have cemented the
edifice of their liberty with our blood. They
have grain in abundance ; and are bound by every
tie of justice, every sentiment of generolity, to
pay in provisions the interest, and at least part ot
the principal, of their debt to us. He came
next to speak of the want of a proper underiland
ing between the Aflembiy and the King s Mini
sters. "In this last memorial," said he, '' they
renounce a refponfibiliry, to which they gi\e an
absurd and difrefpetffful interpretation. They
are not bound to answer for events ; but they
are bound to prove they have employed the
means which the Aflembiy has entrusted to them.
They complain that they have 110 regular anddi
re<sfc correlpondence with us. Let us call them to
fit among us. Hence their evasions, their mis
takes, their equivocations, will be instantly de
tected. At present, we are obliged to confer
with them by means of our committees. But out
of the Aflembiy, a member is 110 more than a pri
vate individual, from whom it is easy for a minis
ter to escape. In what place can they combat
with less advantage, than in an aflembiy where
all kind of knowledge are united ? To this un
ion of the legislative and executive powers, is the
fate of the empire, perhaps, attached." He con
cluded by moving. .
" That his Majeftybe requested to fend imme
diately, trusty and able persons to the Umtct
States to insist 011 the payment in corn of the
capital and interest of the debt due to France.
"That the Committee of Finance lhall pre
pare with all possible speed a plan for a National
Bank, to give security to the public creditors,
liability to national credit, and gradually dimin
i(h the public debt. , _
" That the King's Minilters be invited to litand advise in tlie National Aflembly, without vot
ing, till the conilitution lhall have fixed rules to
be followed in that refpe<3;."
Several members ©bjetftedtothe laftrefolution,
asdangeious to liberty, observing, that the Par
liament of England had never been corrupted but
by Ministers. Others maintained, that admiring
Ministers to advise, but not to vote, would be a
bulwark to liberty ; that being questioned on the
business of their refpe<ftive departments, without
previous communication, they would btTebliged
to answer without reserve ; and that it would be'
extremely difficult for a weak or wicked minister
to deceive the vigilance of the National A ffembly.
Both parties admitted the importance ofeftablilh
ing a national bank—but they were by no means
agreed on the resources to be expe<fled from Ame
rican faith, or American granaries.
The firft and lecond articles were adjourned
till Friday next, and the third till next day.
The Duke de Bouillon has offered 332,484 livres
to the nation, as the fourth part of his annual
income.
PARIS, October 18..
It is difficult for any one who has the feeling
and confederation of a man to observe without
real distress, the wonderful indifference with
■which the people here turn to the events of last
week, at no time, and at this less than any, have
they feemedtoliave a full sense of the importance
of the points they have gained, or even a common
one of the bloody scenes they have thought it
neceflary to a«sl over in their attainment. They
have long been unused to great exertions, or any
real concern about state affairs. By a retrogad*
fort of politics every one has been dead, but to
the business of throwing up his own fence, while
tJSe common chorus has been the grandeur and
glory of their rulers. Itmuftbe a new-born and
pure generation, a generation wliofe views are
directed to important objetto, that will give the
body of the French nation a just idea of their li
berties, and of what the birth right of man is re
ally worth. They now feel themselves capable
of being agitated, and whether it be the forma
tion of an aflembly, their own danger, the impri
sonment of a King, oralillof murders, they catch
at it to feed their wonder with, and throw italide
the inflant the novelty is off.
The arrival of the aflembly, and the departure
of his Grace the Duke of Orleans are the objedls
of this speculation. On the latter fubjedt the
public mind has not yet come to any determina
tion, though every thing that probability or ab
surdity can offer has been attended to, and the
"Surdities have bid as fair to get the majority, as
fair fuggefFion. oneTialFliouf rormeOllTTencn
cockade party in Hampshire, where the presence
of the Duke was indifpenfible—another voted his
Grace over to invite his British Majesty
toadinner and conference with the King of the
French in the Thuilleries Palace—and a third
loaded him with business of the firft political na
ture. His Grace's enemies only spread the idea
of his departure being neceflary—and it is an idea
which is less and less attended to every moment.
Perhaps one occasion of putting a flop to the
retreat of so many of the Members has been a re
solution agreed to by the e]e<ftors at Chateau
Thierny, declaring every member that forfook
the Aflembly, without the leave of his Conflituents,
a traitor, base, and an enemy to the nation. The
Aflembly came the fame day to a resolution against
more leave being given but on very urgent occa
sions, and uhat in cases of illness no unlimited
paflport should be granted till the member's place
wasfupplied by another.
The Hotel de Ville has this evening ifl'ued a
proclamation in the name of the Mayor, inform
ing the public of the arrival of the Aflembly, &c.
recommending peace and good order to the citi
zens—dcclaringthe inviolability of the represen
tatives of the nation, and pronouncing every fort
of difrefpeelful behavior to any one of them.no
less than treason to the nation itfelf, and an at
tack upon it,through thole it hadchofento main
tain its rights, secure its happiness, and defend
its liberties.
LONDON, Ofiober 14.
The public will be surprised to hear, that such
is the energy of British trade, that the London
market supplies Ruflia with furs !
The folntion of the paradox is, that the north
ern Chinese have been hitherto supplied with
American furs by the Ruffian caravans ; at what
an enormous expense maybeeafily conceived.
It is now trying whether a trade may not be
drove from Canton to the northern paws of Ghi
na, by which we may supply them with the ar
ticle dire<slly, and make our Chinese trade so
much less difkdvantageous.
The fur trade, in all its progress, is wonder
ful.
The American collector is frequently out twen
ty months among the Indians.
lib circuit among the snows and woods, tang.
1:1 ac once with ice and fur, is not less than
2000 .niles ; in all which journey he never fees
a -.vi.'ite face, nor tastes the comfort of human
c.v-verfe by day, or a bed at night.
O-.'i. 19. The chief advantage that has result
eel to Europe from exploring the distant legions
of another hemifpbere, has been, the introduc
tion of fonie of the molt ufeful plants and fruits
that are cultivated. Cherries were brought from
Pontus by Lucullus, and planted firft at Rome.
The pear,the peach, the apricot, andthe quince,
were refpe&iveiy b»oughtfrom Epirus,Carthage,
Armenia, and Syria; they were firfttranfplanted
jn Italy, and afterwards difleminated by the
Romans, through the northern andweftern parts
of Europe, then under their dominion. The
tree may be still alive, in China, that afforded
the feeds from which the firft sweet (China)
oranges were reared in Portugal.
Among ourselves, in the beginning of the 16th
century, we had neither fallads, cabbages, tur
nips, carrots, nor any of those Toots that consti
tute the principal part of the food of the poor.
Hops, pippins, and pale gooseberries, were in
troduced into these kingdoms about the middle
of the fame century, and the cauli-flower plant
was not known for, a considerable time after
wards, though now it is to be found in no other
part of the globe i(i equal perfection.
From the discovery of America, one ofthemoft
important advantages we derived, perhaps, was
the introduifiion of the potatoe—a root by far the
most ufeful of all others we have among us, and
which, though it now forms almost the only food
of the poor, was, little more than a century ago,
confined to the gardens of the curious, and pre
sented as a rarity.
0(1. 28. Not less than 200,000 families are
said to have quitted France on account of her
present diftraJted state; and as the exiles in ge
neral were those poflefled of the greatest proper
ty, they are calculated to have drained the na
tion of fifty millions of money.
Count Lally-Tollendal, generally efteemtd
one of the best informed, as well as best princi
pled members of the National Aflemblpr, having
withdrawn himfelf from that body, is a proof
that he nowconfiders the accjuifition of that liber
ty to his country, with which he had flattered
himfelf, as a forlorn hope—or that, if acquired
at all, it will be in such a degree, and by such
means, as not to be worth the purchase.
Count Lally-Tollendal, M. Mounier, the /ate
President of the National Aflembly, with the
Princess de Henin, and two or three other per
sons of diftindiion in company, directed their
route towards Germany.
The Count de Mirabeau, who is a kind of
French John Wilkes, is admired for talents, not
much depended on for the sincerity of his zeal in
favour of public liberty. To distinguish their
"abilities, to gratify their vanity, tt> brow-beat
their superiors, and to mortify their enemies,.are
powerful motives with most public chara<Sers,
while the credulous admiration of an undifcern
ing multitude exalts them into reputation for
firmnefs, benevolence, and patriotism.
ROSEAU, Oflober 10.
By accounts from Martinique, we learn, that
the disturbances which we mentioned in one of
our late papers, are so far from being abated,
that they seem daily to gain additional force
Our readers may remember, we left the French
general in our last accounts, at Fort Royal, to
bringoverpart of themilitary to his fide, against
the people ; we have since obtained the follow
ing particulars, which will form no bad sequel
to that account.
Itfeems he began with the subalterns, several
of whom took a certain oath of attachment which
he administered unto them ; but when he came
to the major, that officer declined faying, he
had already engaged himfelf on the fide of the
people. Incensed at his reply, he reviled him
in very opprobious terms, in whieh he was not
sparing of that epithet, so ofFenfive to a French
man's ear, with which we will not defile our
paper—fout—e, and informed him that he would
fend hiin his conge ; which the other replied he
was most heartily disposed to receive from him
our accounts fay that he laid the cane upon the
refra&ory major.
Frustrated in his attempts upon the infantry,
he made his next application to the regiment of
artillery—but with as little success. These in
formed him, that tliemfelves and culverins were
stationed there for the protection of the people
and for them only fliould be used. '
Driven to the last fliift, his distress suggested
the sorry expedient of having recourse to the
people of colour, who there form a considerable
corps. By a small dose of flattery these people,
so leadily to be caught by a little seeming atten
tion, promised to stand by him : and did so as
long as they usually stand firm to anything
that is, till their fears for their own persons be
came an object of more .weighty concern thev
then abandoned him. 3
The humiliating familiarities to which he
descended to this motley rabble, was truly dis
gusting. He embraced them, called them his
InfansznA cker Amis, and prartifed all the dirty
condefcentions, which those only who are con
versant in the praise-worthy art of cajoling can
form any conception of.
The effect of tliis conduct was, ns inightbe
expe&ed—infolence. One of this banditti pre
sumed to Itrikea grenadier. —This incensed both
the military and the people ; —the colifequence
was, their doughty leader was laid hold ot, who
his trnffy leaders left to his fate. He wns put
into confinement, and had the pleasure of be
holding from the window of his prison, him
whom lie had inspired with the innocent teme
rity to Itrike a white, fulpended 011 a gibbit.
The inhabitants of St. Pierre then afiembled
to confer on the nieaftires to be taken on this
occalion, when ten deputies were chosen to bring
the deposed commander to that part of the island
for trial, and twelve judges were chosen to pre
fideat that, 10 him, very important trial.
Thus flood matters at Martinico on Tliurfday
last : at which time a rumour prevailed that the
Marquis de Bouillee had fuffered death by the
extraordinary and ingenious method of being
put between two planks and fevered in pieces
by a cross-cut saw.
Oct. 14. Thirty-fix of the rebellious slaves
have been sent to Fort Royal for execution.
Their principal ringleaders were a muftee and a
mulatto, one of whom, had modestly pitched up
on the place of intendant, had they succeeded ;
and had call his eye upon one ef the most cele
brated belles of that iiland, as the partner of
his exaltation.
Of tliefe banditti two were broke on the wheel,
ten racked, fourteen hanged, and ren condemned
to the gallies for life.—Some of them were so
daring as to declare at the place of execution,
that the whites need not yet think tliemfelves se
cure, for that there was not a man of colour left
behind, but had sworn to carry their views into
effect.
RICHMOND, December 16.
Yesterday, the Diftrift Court of the United
States for the Diftridl of Virginia, was opened in
the Capitol in this city, where the fion. Cyrus
Griffin (formerly as Judge of the Court of Ap
peals for the Continent,and late President of Con
gress) prefidedas Judge,bcingfirft duly qualified.
Wiliam Marflial, Kfq. was appointed Clerk, pro
tern. James Innes, Jerman Baker, William Du
Val, and John Marshal, Esquires, were admitted
as Counsel in said Court :—After which, there
being 110 business depending, the Court adjourn
ed to the third Tuesday in March, to be holden
in the city of Williamiburg.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
THE GUEST. No. XI.
While modes exotic rule the nation,
In dress, in Jpeech, and ;
Tho millions Jkout our fifing Jarne,
Our boajlcd Freedom 1 s but a name !
JN contemplating our situation as an independent Empire, theft
are some ideas that obtrude themlelves on the mind, which
greatly disgust every real friend to the dignity and hell interests of
our country—among others may be reckoned a propensity, not on
ly to imitate very closely, but to carry to the greatcft exccfs too
many of the absurd customs and tafhions of Europe. While our
country at large is nobly disentangling herfelf from former preju
dices, and endeavoring to form a chara6ter of her own—while
nmple, reasonable, and pra&ical institutions are Springing up in
various parts of the Union, which tend to nationalize the people of
these States, Fashion still connefls us with the *'house of bon
dage," by a chain that appears extremely hard to be broken : A
servile imitation of British modes of dress is symptomatic of weak
ness, and a want of due reverence for ourselves ; but this is an evil
of very interior concern, compared to imitations of their modesof
speech, and plans of education.
In the principal towns on this continent the American language
is spoken by the undebauched natives, with a purity unrivalled—
and if our own pronunciation can be preserved in its original ex
cellence, it will draw a line ofdiftin&ion between us and foreign
ers, especially the modern Britons, who are making rapid strides
towards a pronunciation, which will ere long give them a language
to be understood only by themselves. It is therefore to be wished.
that the capricious alterations, the grating, hiding, scratching
founds of novel reformers, may not obtain among us.
But the most absurd of all our imitations of foreigners, is that of
educating our children, especially the females, agreeable to the
forms of a modern English boarding school. It is not onlv ab
surd, but exceedingly cruel to thcil children, for even the most
wealthy of our citizens, to have their daughters taught the polite
accomplishments of music, dancing, painting, French, embroidery,
&c. while ufeful and substantial acquirements are neglected. The
former, so far from proving a defence and support when adversity
comes, are often the sources of misfortune and indigence. Thefc
accomplishments, experience verifies, are merely fuperficial, and
may consist with a tot?l abfencc of all those intellectual improve
ments, which constitute the most valuable traits in the female cha
racter : In this view they may be compared to the external orna
mcrits of a building, which is destitute ofevery internal accommo
dation. A man would discover less wisdom in purchasing an
estate by report, than he would'in chufing a wife by the dazzle of
such unlubftantial qualifications.
The following incident is founded onfa£ls : 11 For God's fake,
a penny, to save a wretch from starving"—said a poor, meagre,
ragged female, at 11 o'clock at night : Curiosity and companion
induced an enq&iry. What was the result ? Theonce accomplish
ed Mel i ssa, who fhonc, the firjl Jlar y in the most brilliant circles
but a few years since, thro a series of misfortunes, which stripped.
her family of its estate, is now a houseless, friendlefs child of want.
She was early initiated in every accomplishment of the bon ton —
but the hour of adversity was not contemplated, and consequently
not provided for. O, Sir, said (he, if I had been taught to han
dle the diftaff, and my mind had been imprefled with early sent*»
ments of humiliiy, and the importance of industrious habits, when
the dream of dissipation was over, I should not have fallen a prey
to the arts of feduftion, and now experience the vanity of my once
boasted education. Hapless Me l issa, may thy example impress
the maxims of wisdom and benevolence on the minds of the af
flueut, and teach them to unite the ufeful with rhe ornamental, in the
education of their children, since riches are an uncertain inheri
tance.UNITED STATES.
CHARLESTON, December 21.
Extract of a letter from Columbia.
AFTER leaving Cliarlefton we jogged 011 cheer
fully enough, considering the profped: be
fore us. As you will naturally suppose, we pass
ed through a variety of scenes, forneof thein (uf
ficiently melancholy and dreary ; others enli
vened by the appearance of well cultivated tarms
and good buildings—it was not easy however to
forget the places we had so lately left—for
" Who to dullforgetfulnefs a prey,
That pleafinglovely Charleston e'er resign d ;
Left the sweet profpe&of its Hiores and lea,
Nor cast otle longing lingering look behind ?"
1 need fay nothing worse of Columbia, than
that it is in its infancy ; but it is easy to fee that
a year or two will make it a very handsome and
populous village, and half a century a consider
able town. We are situated in the center ol a
fine plentiful country, inhabited by a hospitable
and industrious set of people. Buildings are
every day ere&ing : a Printing Othce is nearly
established ; aye, and we shall have gilded spires
too after a while, notwitliftanding the sneers of
certain gentlemen, who had better be fleeting
home their topfails—ln ftiort, we shall do wel
enough—ln the mean time, if you are not steel
proof to all the feelings of companion and hu
manity, I pray you to fend us some oylters.
Building is carried on rapidly in the town ot
Columbia. A letter received from thence fajs,
that a liable which will accommodate forty horses,
was raifedand nearly covered in one day.
A licht-houfe is now building on Cape tear,
which it is expe<fted will be finifhed in about eight
months. A new one is shortly to be erected on
Cape Henry, in Virginia, upon a foundation laid
for that purpose more than twenty ago,
and since covered with sands. Another is de
signed for Cape May, in New-Jersey ; and it is
laid that a light house is soon to be placed in the
beacon on Tybee-lfland.
The new King of Spain was lately proclaimed
at St. Augustine, with the ulual formalities of that
nation—Money was dillributed to the pop ulace,
the town was brilliantly illuminated,and feftivals,
balls and masquerades, crowned their rejoicings
for afucceffion of evenings.
BALTIMORE, December 29.
Ext rail of a letter from a Mafler of a Vetfel to his
Owner in this Town, dated Port Louis, ljle oj
France, July 16, 1789.
" I arrived here on the 10th ot June, after a
Padage of 124 Days. The Day before Capt.
Coffin, in a Brig, fromSalem, arrived, after 154
days paflage,and proceeded on his voyage. —Capt.
Frazier, in the Ship Adventure, from Bolton, ar
rived this Day, and proceeded on his Voyage. —
Likewile arrived here, one Ship and two Brigs
from Salem, commanded by Captains Folger Mur
phy, and Lambert."
PHILADELPAIA, December 29.
The General Aflembly of North-Carolina,
which ni°t at Fayetteville, the 2d ult. have taken
into consideration the state of their public reve
nue, the amount and nature ot the public debt ;
and have called upon the several officers in their
government to account for all the public monies,
and other matters which have been entrusted to
their care. The question for fixing the feat ot
government .in Wake county, as recommended by
the Convention, which met at Hillfborough, in
July 1788, was loft in the House of Commons,
by a majority of 10.
His Excellency Samuel Johnfton, Elq. is re
elected Governor of that hate.
Lately departed this life in North-Carolina,
the Hon. Richard Cafwell, a gentleman who has
uniformly dillinguifhed himfelf as a firm friend
to the liberties of his country. He was a Mem
ber of the firft Congress in 1775, ancl has beeu
appointed to the office of Governor of thatftate.
He was many years in succession a Member of
the Legislature, and ever ranked among the firft
of patriots and best of men. His body was in
terred with all the honor due to so distinguished
a character ; and the General Aflembly of that
state go into'morning one month.
The following is thp produce of 35 acres of
ground, 1 4 acres of which is ploughed ground,
farmed by William Johnson, at Frankford mill.
1 7o£ Bushels Barley,
139 Ditto Rye,
56 Ditto Wheat,
2j6| Ditto Buckwheat,
180 Ditto Indian Corn,
50 Tons Hay,
20 Ditto Pumkins,
250 Buihels Potatoes,
100 Ditto Turnips,
• Acre Flax.
EXETER, December 19.
Tuesday last, thefirft Federal Court of this state,
was opened at the court-house in this town before
the Hon. Judge Sullivan. After adminiftenng
the neceflary oaths to the refpetftive officers, &c.
there being no business laid before them, they
adjourned according to law.
PROVIDENCE 1 , December ?2.
The Convention of North-Carolina having, by
a large Majority, adopted the Conftitutiou of the
United States, let us ardently hope, lays a Cor
respondent, that each individual Member of our
Legislature, at their Selfion in January, will come
prepared to consider the momentous Subjetft di
verted of every unworthy local Prejudice, or
Party Attachment. " ITo err is human." Let
us suppose it poflible that we may have erred—
let but Reafoti resume her Empire, and the great
work must be accomplished. Agriculture will
then flourifh—Arts, manufadturs and commerce,
revive—the prostrated honor of this State be re
stored, and we lhall become a united people, un
der a government which has for its \>a(is wifdoin
and virtue, and for its objeifl the happinef? of all.
The bugbear of high salaries, remarks another
correspondent, may be fuccefsfully played off to
alarm weak minds ; but men of retledlion and in
formation well know, that the revenue collected
from one of the large commercial States will be
nearly if not fully fufficient to defray the whole
civil lift of the Union.
THE NATIONAL MONITOR.
No. XXXIII.
" Jea lousy of others is an index to our oarn tonduß or difpofttion."
JEALOUSY is called a republican virtue : Grantthat it is.—
Is it not notorious that under the guise of this virtue, there
often lurks the mod bafeand unworthy species of low suspicion :
Suspicions, that at one period of our affairs, so unhinged the pub
lic mind, and so l?ffened all confidence even in our bell P a " lots >
that it was next to a miracle we were saved from anarchy, and the
fatal consequences that always result from a want of that honeity,
which an overweening jealousy takes it for granted never does
exist. Indifciiminate suspicion is the parent of those very evils, it
pretends to deleft, and expose to the public indignation ; tor lo
long as society exists, delegated power is the neceffaryconfequence-
And if men do not receive appiobation for their integrity, the
temptation to deviate from the pathsof honor and honeity, is great
lyencreafed : A generous confidence confirms the servants of (he
public in iuft sentiments—while a mean suspicion, fanttions, in
their own minds, the knavery of knaves, There is a much better
lifeguard to the liberties of the people pointed out in ourexcellent
Conflitution than jealousy, and that is the eligibility of every citi
zen, of every rank, to every office of honor or profit in the United
States. Betides the spring to laudable ambition, which is lo in
timately connected with this truly republican idea, every citizen
is hereby formed into a Centinel, or Watchman, over the admi
nistration of our political concerns—and every patriotic, and per
sonal consideration is excited to deleft, point out, and ex pole to
public censure, themalverfation of men in office : Having such an
effectual fecunty for the fidelity of characters in power, insinua
tions, or open and explicitdeclamations against government, lo lar
as they arc founded on mere suspicion, mull be conhdered as the
Ebullitions of envy, or a malignancy of disposition.
The reft nude of those who have invariably supported the Lon
ftitution of the United States, is abundantly verified in all their
conriuft fubfequentto the organization of thefyftem. Uppolition
has been starved ; and even envy itfelf, that immortal euemy to
human happiness, has scarcely lifpedfier repimogs ; here and there
some of her blotches have foiled the press, but the disapprobation
of the people has immediately checked the inflamation, and the
immature productions have died at soon as born.
The people of the United Slates in contemplating their P"' rnt
lunation, and contrasting it with that of the whole world betides,
must observe with gratitude to Heaven, their superior advantages,
,ud while they feel that they are free, secure, ■""P^entand
happv, thole rc'itlefs, turbulent characters who would disturb the
u.inquiUiy of the States, by depreciating their government, or its
iJmimllration—who by fomenting fchiims, distrusts and jea
iousies, would throw us back into that humiliating, degrading
and difttcfsful slate we hatefo recently extricated ourselves from,
mull, and will be considered as inveterate enemies to the United
Slates. There are many things in government, about which wile
and rood men will disagree ; however, the abandoned and un
principled onlv will ever advocate measures of confufion, when
thev miss carrying a favorite point.-This criterion of conduct
is an unfailing index to ascertain characters. It is happy for our
coiintrv that cold water has been thrown upon the few instances
of inveterate antifederalifm that h*ve occurred.
The steps of the firft session of Congress were marked with
wisdom, patriotism and independence, and received the general
approbation of their constituents.-Is anV errors comm.t
tcd they can bereftified ; but the recess has demonstrated that the
people are fatisficd. The approaching session will therefore com
mence under the highest auspices of public Confidence :an w K
the obiefts that are to come into public difcuflion, are conleffedly
important, complex, and of arduous invest.gat.on, our civ I
Fathers must feel infpiredto prosecute the.rduty upon the princi
ples of the conflitution with zeal, promtitude and independency .
For they may with the fulled assurance rely on the support ot the
people in every measure they may adopt, to strengthen the g -
verriment, extend the commerce, encourage the agncuhure AND
RETRIEVE AND ESTABLISH THE CREDIT OF THE
UNITED STATES.
N E W-Y O R K, January 6.
The weather has been so remarkably mild, that there has been
scarcely any appearance of froß in the earth this winter-Seve
ral perLs in the suburbs of this city were yesterday employed
" P w«hi." Excellency Governor John
(Von is eletfted a Senator of the United States by
the General Aflembly of the state of North-Caro-
of a letter from St. Croix, dated Nov. 2J.
"It is very sickly here—the influenza has af
fected ever** person on the island, and numbers
have been carried off with it, particularly ne
groes many estates have 101 l from fifteen to
thirty.
ARRIVALS.-SEW.YORK.
Sunday, Brig William, Harrifon, Curracoa.
• Brig Pearl, Folgier, Cape Francois, 22 days.
Sloop Union, Watson, Philadelphia,
Sloop Anna Bella, Thurfton, Montcgo Bay, 42 days,
Monday, Packet Dalbwood, Roberts, Falmouth and Halhfa*.
Ship Hibcrnia, ' Dublin, 7 > davs
Ship Experiment, Hudson, Liverpool, 46 days.
Brig Margaret, Salisbury, Liverpool, 72 days.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FEN NO,
I HAVE observed in the two last numbers of your
Gazette some llridturex on the indifcrinimate
extracts from English papers, which appeal in the
American publications ; and fomeperi'on appears
to be offended that the scurrilous accounts of trans
atlantic British scribblers, in fpe.iking ot 1 rench
affairs, should be given to the public here. For my
part, I have always felt interelled in the fucceis
of our allies in their exertions to obtain a free
Constitution, and in faying this, I {peak the senti
ments of every American revolutionalill.
The printers through the United States must
realize that their interest is connected with pub
lishing the mod authentic accounts : However,
it is exceedingly difficult fortheyi always to dis
tinguish between those that are fabricate dim po
litical purposes, and those that are genuine—and
being often in want of materials, the whole mas?
of incongruities is thrown in.
As the general sentiment of our countrymen is
only to be collected from the tenor of paragraphs
and speculations, which have reference to the
concerns of the United States—it is hardly confid
ent with candor to fuggelt that America is juilly
taxable with ingratitude to her allies, becaul'e
the printers inadvertently publiih British misre
presentations of the affairs of 1 I hare
been informed that many ol inhuman
barbarities and murders, published in English pa
pers, have turned out to be entire fabrications.
If any persons on this fide the water, are pos
sessed of any documents which would serve to ex
pose the falfehood of such accounts—it cannot be
doubted but that the printers in general would
be glad to print, and the public to read such au
tentic intelligence. CANDIDUS.
NEW-YORK, JANUARY 6.
Monday the 4th inltant was the time to
which the Legislature of the United States was
adjourned—a number of members o( both houses
accordingly aflbinbledat Federal Hall, in this ci
ty—the feat of the national government—but
there not being a quorum they adjourned—Y el
terday a fufficient number had not arrived and
a further adjournment took place—The mem
bers now attending are the following : -
O F THE SENATE.
The PRESIDENT,
Hon. Mr. Langdon, Hon. Mr. King,
Mr. Wingate, Mr. Izard,
Mr. Strong, Mr. Butler,
Mr. Dalton, Mr. 1 ew,
Mr. Johnson, Mr. Henry.
Mr. Schuyler,
OF THE HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
The SPEAKER.
Hon. Mr. Ames, Hon. Mr. Scott,
Mr. Gilman, Mr. Griihn,
Mr. Foster, Mr. Brown,
Mr. Livermore, Mr. White,
Mr. Gerry, M r - s:°!"' r x
Mr. Goodhue, Mr. Smith, (S. C.)
Mr. Thatcher, Mr. Tucker,
Mr. Partridge, Mr. Burke,
Mr. Sherman, Mr. Huger,
Mr. Benfon, Mr. Baldwin,
Mr. Lawrence, Mr. Boudinot.
Mr. P.Muhlenberg, Mr. Grout,
Mr. Seney, Mr. Floyd,
It has been obfervcd that Americain the infan
cy of its existence as a nation, appears to com
mence its course with all those masculine move
ments which diftinguilh States that have attained
to maturity, in points which conihtute the eflen
tials of Empire.—Europe marks our progress svith
an attentive eye; and many of her kingdoms
evidently copy our example, and form their le
crulations upon our experience.—Others again,ex
?i cife the severest criticism in examining oui po
litical condudt ; and in feminizing our works
of genius, they exert the whole force of their
difquifitory powers; every defedl is noticed
with themoft acute severity—plainly indicating
that they consider America as a rival, in e ™P» e *
nolitics, and science. These reflections afford us
ideas that are truly original.—The world hath,
never before exhibited a parallel to the circum
itances in which this young nation finds ltfeU
nliced—How important then that we fliould feel
{he true dignity of the station afligned us by
Providence, and lupport our rank in the scale
of nations by all those public ads of honor ami
fidelity, which are the only basis of the profpe
We°atc!dy ieel the salutary influences of the new government,
Ihofe plans,wh.ch (hall eftabl.fh the public credtt upon a broad.
a "The"ldeftgovernment upon earth does not appear to be more
mmFOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FEN NO,
In tracing the late American war from its ori
gin, Ave find there was no want of informa
tion, which could have been plead as an excuse
on the part of that ministry, which precipitated
the British nation into nieafures which have left
an everlalting stigma on their councils—The fol
lowing speech was founded on indisputable fatfts ;
and from those, the enlightened patriot drew
fucli inferences as carried irrefiftable conviction
to the mind of all his hearers, many of whom
anticipated the fatal consequences that would fol
low from not giving them due consideration ; but
a majority were devoted to a junto, whose obsti
nacy was every thing, but windmill proof.
HOUSE of COMMONS, March 8, 1775.
LONDON.
LORD NORTH'S RESTRAINING BILL.
MR.. HARTLEY, moved, that the following
clause be inserted in the bill, viz.
" Provided always, and be it further enacted, that nothing
" in this ast contained (hall extend, or be construed to extend,
" to prohibit the importation into any or either of the said co
" lonies or provinces, of fuel, corn, meal, flour, or other vic
-4t luals brought coastwise from any part of America."
THIS clause, laid he, cannot be objected to,
even by the rnoft vindictive spirits, against the
four provinces of New-England, who are the ob
jetts of this bill, as it is extracted from the Bos
ton port bill of last year, the lenity or humanity
of which was never so much as pretended, even
by its advocates. There cannot be a reafonwhy
you fliould throw away this year, the little share
of humanity which you hadthe last ; more espe
cially, as we are come to discover and even to ac
knowledge, by the votes of the House, that we
have proceeded hitherto, in this business with
America, with rashness, misjudgment and preci
pitation. The vote I allude to was palled but a
few days ftnce : which fays, or pretends to fay,
that it would have been proper (that is the term)
to have proceeded in a way of asking a supply of
the Americans, by the constitutional way of requi
sitions, before proceeding to compulsory or for
cible methods. Having confefled ourselves wrong
in the foundation, it is but equal justice to our
fellow fubjetts of America to suppose, that those
riots and resistances would not have happened, if
we had not begun with them confefledly in an
unconstitutional way. Surely then, it is not a
time to add to the severity of our atfts, in pro
portion as we find, that we have been unjust in
the onset, and that they have been less to blame.
It is finely but a little matter to a/k, that you
w«uld not this year be morefevere or cruel tow
ards America, who have never been heard on
their defence, than you were the last.
Befules, what c onftrutftion can the town of
Boston put upon your present measures, if you
refufetlie clause now offered ? They will be be
sieged, as in actual war with any foreign enemy.
General Gage has fortified the neck which joins
Boston to the continent, by which he may inter
cept .provisions ; and by this bill you proclaim
the fauie intention by sea. Do you expect, that
they will submit to be starved into paflive obedi
ence ? What 1 efource have they left, but resist
ance ; and, perhaps, to take advantage of the
fmallnefs of the numbers of General Gage's troops,
before they are reinforced ; for this act puts it
out of all doubt, that y iu mean to proceed to all
extremities. I have been informed, by those
who know bell the temper of the Americans, and
I hope and believe that they will hold out their
patience to the utmost, and that they will not
strike the firft blow: but what is the difference
to them whether you strike the firft blow by the
musket or the sword, or, to equal effett by fa
mine ? The refufal of this clause will be a decla
ration on your part, that you mean to bring fa
mine upon them, to the utmost of your power,
and therefore a warning to them of the mercy
which they are to expect at your hands.
As to the bill in general, it has been so ably
debated by my friends near me, that I lhall only
add two remarks : This bill, by destroying the
North American fifhery, not only destroys that
nursery of seamen, but will disable the provinces
under the prohibition, from the means of pay
ing their debts to this country, who therefore
will finally be the fufferers and when the next
year comes, and you find this consequence, you
will then turn accusers of the North Americans
for ;iot paying their debts, and you will add, ac
cording to the usual falfhoods towards the Ame
ricans, that they never intended to pay their
debts ; and, by the distance of the place, and
the falftiood of representations, you will impute
those very effects which you have produced your
selves, as the juftifying causes ot resentment.
This is the unjust way in which the Americans
have been treated, on all occasions. I myfelf
aiked, the other day, why, on a particular occafi
on of a flight riot (in the year 1768) of a few
hours continuance, f*ur regiments, and a train
of artillery, were ordered to Boston ? Tojuftify
this enormous intervention of the military, I
was told in this Houle, that indeed the riots were
trifling, but that the Americans had come to a
resolution to arm the country. What then was
the real fact, as teftified by dates ? The fact was,
that the resolution to arm was not taken till the
troops were seen in the offing. It was the light
of the troops upon so trivial au occafion,that gave
them to understand what they were to expect ;
and, by dales, the fact is verified, that they did
not take arms till some months after the troops
were ordered, but it was upon their firft notice
of the troops being to come ; the resolution to
arm against the worst, was actually debated but
a few hours before the troops were landed. So
it is that facts are misrepresented in America,
and so let me put in my caution now, that the A
mericans do now actually pay their debts, like
honest men, to the utmost of their power, and let
me be before-hand with this charge, if when the
natural consequences of these measures fliall come
next year, we should hear any falfe accusations
of the Americans, as combining not to pay their
debts.
I shall make but one remark more, but which
seems to me to be oftheutmoft importance to the
whole commercial fyftein of England, which is,
that the plantation built bottoms are two thirds,
or three quarters, or all the bottoms upon which
the British merchandize, to every quarter of the
globe, is carried on; when we meditate a blow at
the American trade, we should recoiled; at lealt,
that there is this one manufacture (if I may so
call it) of shipbuilding, upon the enconragement
of which our very existence in this kingdom, as
a trading people, depends. However we may
think it our interest to suppress the rivalfhip of
the colonies with ourselves, in other manufac
tures, yet in thistradeof ship building they are
our molt material andfubftantial support. This
revengful blow at the American ship building,
will fall most immediately and fatally upon the
manufacturers and merchants of every commer
cial article in the kingdom. For these reasons, I
am againll the whole principle of the bill now be
fore us ; and if we cannot prevail to have the
whole rejected, I must humbly move, atleaft,the
admiflion of the clause which 1 havejult offered
to the House.
FROM THE HERALD OF FREEDOM.
MR. FREEMAN,
HAVING obfervedinthe Herald of July 31, a
plan for rendering the public debt a public
blelfing, against whichno well founded objections
have appeared, that I have seen—some of your
correspondents would be glad to fee the follow
ing fclieme of a National Bank at the feat of the
general government, in aid of that plan com
inunicated through the channel of your ufeful
paper. It may firft be remarked, that the plan
proposed is.
i ft. That the public creditors be invited to de
posit their securities in the public Treasury ;
receiving one third of the amount thereof' in a
paper medium, which/hall be receivable on all
imports, excises, and public loans—and a certifi
cate entitling them to the whole amount in 20
years, with interest annually at j per cent after
10 years—the paper medium received being equi
valent to 10 years interest on the whole sum de
posited.
2(1. That such of the creditors, as may not
choose to receive one third of the deposit in the
paper medium, lhall be paid their interest an
nually at 5 per cent, and the principal in 20 years,
or sooner, if the situation of public affairs lhall
admit of it.
It is evident that this must be a beneficial pro
posal to the creditor—and to enable the public to
support it, the following plan of a Bank is offer
ed as one among other means which may be
thought of—lt is not probable that all the credi
tors will receivefthe one third of their deposits in
the paper medium, and therefore we are not to
conclude thatweihall have a paper circulation to
the amount of one third of the whole public debt;
and when we consider that a paper medium must
soon become absolutely neceflary, in the business
of the Revenue—and that it will be spread over
an extensive continent, the resources of which
are every day unfolding themselves and increas
ing, the scheme is thought by many to be a prac
ticable one, and it is the duty of a good citizen
to fubmitto the public consideration, thole plans
which he, from experience perhaps, feels to be
of public benefit. 1 '
Plan of forming a NATIONAL BANK—from
whence notes may be ifl'ued for the payment of
interest, or on a deposit of the principal, agree
able to a proposition in the Herald of July 31,
last ; the notes to be receiveableon all the Reve
nues, and payable on demand at the Bank.
ift. That all the money in the collection of
fices be ordered to the Bank, ofter being recoined.
id. 1 .'.at fubferiptions be opened in thefeveral
States—in order to attach the monied interests to
the National Bank,, and so obtain their support,
if an attempt fliould at any time be made to rda
upon the Bank—afhare to be joo dollars— 100 of
which to be paid into the Bank previous to the
opening of it—the remainder or any part of it,
to be paid within a month of its being demanded
—either in gold or lilver—or in the bank notes
of the United States—the subscribers to be entitled
to J per cent, per annum on their advances
to one per cent, more when the ill'ues shall be
double the deposits—to two per cent, when three
times—to three when four fold—and to four per
cent, when they shall amount to five times the
deposits.
On this plan, the further the issues are extend
ed beyond the deposits, the more it will be for the
iixerefts both of the llock-holders and the people ;
for in proportion as the ftock-liolders receive an
encreafe of interest on their advances so in pro
portion will the people pay less for the use o<*
the money issued.
PROPOSAL,
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
M E MO IRS
BLOOMSGROVE FAMILY.
In a SERIES of LETTERS from a gentleman in New-England
to a refpe&able citizen of Philadelphia.
CONTAINING
Sentiments on a MODE of DOMESTIC EDUCATION, failed
to the present state of Society, Government and Manners in the
United States, and on the Importance and Dignity of the Female
Character.
INTERSPERSED WITH A
VARIETY of interesting ANECDOTES.
CONDITIONS.
They will be printed on a good paper and type—neatly bound
and lettered, in two volumes, i2mo. and delivered to fubferibers
at three quarters of a dollar per volume.
These Momoirs are dedicated to Mrs. Washington, ly.
her permission. Having seen the manufcripts y and approved the plan,
14 She heartily wishes that every laudable effort to improve the
,4 mode of education in this country may be attended with merif
" ed success."
FROM the literary character of the reputed author of
the above work, and a table of contents left with the printer here
of 3 , being eighty-three letters on the most interesting fubie&s of
education, life and manners, it is expetted these Memoirs will
prove a very valuable and interesting performance.
Subscriptions received by the Editor, at his office and letters (pojh
paid) duly attended to.
ADVERTISEMENT.
EXTRACTS FROM THE JOURNAL OF THE OHIO COMPANY.
WHEREAS, in the opinion of the Agents, it is very much,
for the intcreft of the proprietors at large, that all the
lands of the purchase should be divided and allotted as immedi
ately as may be—And in order Co accommodate them generally,,
by the option of darting as they may think proper, and drawing
their rights or Chares (where they may poflefs more than one)
either together in contiguity, or by detaching and annexing them
to diftintt claffcsor divisions (at their own cle&ion) to give them
the greater chance for variety in foil and fituation—Jtisunani
moufly refolved,That as foonas the exploring committee fhaJl have
appropriated the lands for donation fettleraents,in quantity fuffici
ent for all the proprietors,Wi nthrop Sargent, Joseph Gi ll
m an, and Ritur n J. Meigs, Esquires, whoare hereby appoint
ed a committee for that purpose,(hall immediately makeout,upon
a large fcale,a complete map or plan of the whole purchafc from the
best information,whi<;h they may be then able to obtain,exprefling
all the lands of the eight acre, three acre, city lots and commons,
one hundred and sixty acre, and donation lots, the reserved lots
of Congress, school lots, and lots appropriated for religibus pur
poses—also, the two townfliips given by Congress for an univerfi
ty,and the towns or filiations for towns to be reserved by the com
pany for a future allotment.—That, all the residuary lands (hall
be, by them, the said committee of three, divided and numbered
upon paper, into forty equal grand divisions of twenty-five shares
each, as like in quality as may be: That each grand division be
divided into five sub-divisions of five shares each, and each sub
division into feftions of single (hares :—That as soon as the map
or plan is completed, the agents will form or class their fubferib
ers (who fhail not previously elafs themselves) by feftions or single
(hares, into sub-divisions of five, and grand divisions of twenty
five, and immediately proceed to drawing; hv lot for said lands;
by grand divisions, sub-divisions and fcfitions : That in all
draughts of sub-divisions (into fe&ions) which may be madcup of
proprietors,holding four,three, or two and single (hares,it (hall be
the usage for the greatcft proprietor, or holder of the greatest
number of shares, to take his lands in contiguity, by lot, either in
the southern or northern part of the sub-division, where they shall
be numbered from north to south, and in the western or aaftern
(by lot also) where they may be numbered from weft to east ; and
where sub-divisions may be made up of two proprietors of two
shares each, and one or one share, the two greatest proprie
tors shall receive their fcttions, by lot, either in the southern or
western part of the fub-divilion. Rejolved, That the before na
med committee, be diretted to prepare the names and numbers,
and make all the nece(Tar)r arrangements for the intended draught :
That previous to the drawing for this ultimate grand division o£
lands, there shall be returns of the proprietors, as they may be
clafTed by the agents (or otherwise) lodged in the Secretary's office*
and it is recommended in all cases to consult the inchnatibns and
interests of the proprietors in the order of clafling.
Rejolved, That the agents will give public notice of the time and
placeof drawing, and that there be twoperfonsno ways intereft
e<3 in the draughts, who shall be sworn to the faithfully drawing
out the names and numbers from the boxes, and who alone (halL
be employed in this business for the draught of grand divisions*
sub-divisions, and fe&ions.
Rejolved, That the Secretary cause the foregoing resolutions to
be published in the newspapers of New-York, and the New-
England States ; to the end that the proprietors at large may have
the option of classing themselves as they may think proper : And
they are hereby requeftcd so to do, and to express themselves
upon thisJubjett, either to their refpeftive agents, or by informa
tion in writing addressed to, and to be lodged with the Secretary,
at his office in the city of Marietta,previous to ttye firftMonday of
March, 1790 —Upon which day it is expe&ed the divifiou will
take place. WINTHROP SARGENT,
Secretary to the Ohio Company.
MdrnttiJj 3d November, 1789.
WANTED. IMMEDIATELY,
A YOUNG LAD, of suitable character, to serve
as an Apprentice to the printing Business.
Enquire of the Printer.