[No. LXXXI.j
THE TABLET.
No. LXXXI.
" The mind a(is with mofl vigor when confined to a
finglc objeli."
IT is obvious, upon a little reflection, that mo
mentum of character is derived more from ap
plication than genius. Men who hold the great
est influence in political life, and who acquire the
lai geft amount of property, are generally those
whose principal charaCteristics are perseverance
and attention. Vigor of imagination and brilli
ancy of talents create a lustre which dazzles the
pofieflor, and beguiles him from that plain track
of common prudence which leads to wealth and
influence.
The probable reason why men of a bold, enter
prizing spirit so often miscarry in their projects,
is that their plans of bufmefs are too diverfified.
It is easy to observe that men of thisftamp fail in
many attempts, in which the calculations are fa
vorable, and the facrifice only happens through
want of attention. If the mind is employed on
many objeCts it can do justice to none. The men
tal faculties lose part of their vigor by being oc
cupied in unsteady and separate courses. There
is a difficulty in accommodating our turn of think
ing to the various transitions which are required
by difFufive concerns. When a person has fuchn
diverlity of affairs to manage that they fall into
confufion, he will soon break through system,
and the separate branches of his business will to
gether form one general wreck.
1 have often been told by men, who had divi
tied their attention between many different ob
jects, that had they seleCted either of them singly,
and attended closely to it, they would not only
have been less exposed to risque and fatigue, but
have gained property far more rapidly. T ne fame
canfes, that render thedivifion of labour foufeful
in mechanical operations, may be applied to molt
of the employments of society. Every individual
should reduce the sources of his care to as final! a
number as possible. It is much easier, and more
profitable to pursue one plan of business to great
extent, than to manage two upon a less extensive
scale. The mind cannot art with vigor or regu
larity when it is frequently making tranlitions
from one subjeCt to another. The ideas become
scattered, and the power of combination is sensi
bly weakened. Many capable men lose the be
nefit of all their efforts by attending partly to
several things, but effectually to nothing. They
enter the chace with a fair prospeCt of game, but
before they'overtake it, anew scent diverts them,
which they follow till their career is t'xned to a
course still more alluring. The most anxious cares
and severe toils are often endured without produ
cing one substantial advantage. The miscarria
ges of men in important fcheines of business are
generally owing to their having so many concerns
on hand, that lome if not all must be negleCted.
No employment can be profitable without atten
tion, and few men can attend to more than one,
with propriety. Care and induflry will overcome
the difficulties of almost any occupation, and po
verty is only to be feared by the indolent, the
fickle and the knavifli.
There are, it must be confefied, some men of
such comprehensive talents, that they can at once
conduCt numerous and distinCt operations. This
results from a faculty of intuition that only has
to glance at an objeCt to understand it. And when
a comparison of ideas is requisite, an elevated ge
nius combines so rapidly as to be ready to decide
and aCt, in any turn of circumflances. As few
men poflefs such faculties, it Ihould not be infer
red, that the bulk of mankind will not prosper
belt, in a narrow sphere of action.
The defeats of the human mind can have no
other remedy than a judicious affignmcnt of parts
to the different characters of society. If every man
were to attempt to do many things, most men
would do nothing effectually. Wherever we turn
our cyef, we find instances of men laboring under
the difficulties of a complex or an unsuitable talk.
They never arrive at perfection, either because
they are not properly employed, or because they
have too many employments It would be well
to examine whether the regulations of this coun
try are not deficient in that proper division of
duties among the citizens, which in the higliefl
degree promotes the prosperity of individuals,and
encreafes the resources of the community.
PI!'LVOV tliU Al. APfARAI US.
ON Thursday the 25th tilt, arrived at New-Haven, fate and
in good order, from London, a Philosophical Apparatus, for
"Yale College. As soon as it was received, it wasdepofited in the
Apparatus Chamber of the College. The Univetfity is thus fur
niihed with a complete set of instruments and machines, for exhi
biting a whole course of experiments in Natural Philosophy and
Astronomy. It was purchased by the liberal donation&ot a num
ber of gentlemen, friends' to literature ; among whom the Rev.
Dr. J,ock\voo» was the ptiincrpal benefactor.
W EDNESDAY January 20, 1790.
THE GUEST.—No. XIII.
May he who makes yon glorious source of day,
Life, light, and blef/ings to the -world convey ,
Dispel the clouds that Jbade the human mind,
And Earth'sgreat fat/iily in concord bind.
A NARROW, and censorious spirit, is the com
mon attendant of a gloomy, and felf-opin
ionated temper : It is always conneifted with a
want of charity for those, whose sentiments are
not cast in the fame mould with its own. I have
known persons of this stamp who suspend the
salvation of their neighbors, on the belief of cer
tain particular tenets, upon which the woild at
large are infinitely divided. Some persons of this
description, would merit pity for their ignorance,
were they contented with being their own tur
menters ; but they disturb the happiness of so
ciety, by difleminating their principles, and rai
ling doubts in the minds of others, refpetfting the
benevolence of the Deity to the whole human race.
1 here are some of this chara<fter, who limit the
mercy of the Divine Being to a very narrow com
pass : Tho they may poilefs so much modesty as
to confels that they never were admitted to the
councils of Heaven, yet they can without hefita
tion cotifign to future misery all those whose faith
vaiies from their own—And as to those, who by
the dispensations of Providence never enjoyed the
light of revelation, their minds are not irradiated
by a (ingle ray of hope refpetffing their future
fate : But can we rationally suppose, that he,
whose " tender mercies are over all his worts,"
can approve such a judgment! How can it be re
conciled to the principles of justice, that those
should be condemned for not obeying, what they
never enjoyed an opportunity of knowing. Altho
ic is reasonable, that those who are favored with
superior advantages, lhould consider themselves
as accountable for the improvement of their pri
vileges, yet sacred writ allures us, " that he that
" feareth God,and worketh righteousnesS,/« every
" nation, is accepted of him"—and there can be
no doubt, but that the favor of Heaven will be
extended to every son of Adain, whose difpolition
is conformed to the spirit of thatgofpel, which is
" peace on earth, and good-will towards men,"
whether they have been favored with the written
word or not. " The Judge of all the earth will
do right"—and as " those that have finned in
" the law, lhall be judged by the law," so tliofc
who have been a law unto themselves, or which is
the lame thing, have followed the dicftates of that
law, which God hath written on the heart of every
man, even those who have never enjoyed the
light of Revelation, shall find favor with him,
who not without reason, " hath uever left htm,-
felf without witness of his divinity in every nation
under heaven." The world is approximating to
that glprious period, when mankind lhall not be
divelted of charity towards each other, for a dif
ference in opinion, any more than they will re
pi'oach one another for not being all of one co
lor, onefize, or one universal set of fimiliar fea
tures. The sentiments of bigotry, are opposed
to the best interests of mankind : To gratify its
ignorant and contra<sied propensities, it will coun
teract the most benevolent designs, even to its
own disadvantage, left those of opposite princi
ples Ihould be benefited thereby. We may differ
in sentiment, but when we fuffer, our particular
opinions, or prejudices to guide our decilions in
matters of benevolence, and public utility, we
justly merit the appellation of the enemies to
society.
A FAMILIAR EPISTLE.
To Mrs. Virci ni a, aliasTHF. Ancient Dominion.
Dear Sifter,
WE have lately seen some letters, which two
of your confidential servants have sent you,
calculated entirely to make mifcliief in the fami
ly. We have always allowed your claim of rank,
as our eldest Sifter ; and when your children and
servants have pretended that your power was the
great eft, your purse the heaviest, your farm the
and yourfelf a woman of more fen fe than
any of your Sifters, we have never contradicted
them, because we did not wish to quarrel about
the matter —though we were sensible that a great
part of your farm was untenanted and goingout
of repair, that you were constantly running in
debt foi your annual expences, and whenever
;he robbers hare broke into your house you were
very poorly able to defend yourfelf,andcould on
ly alarm the neighbourhood,by dismal outcries,of
" Help, Murder and Rape." But you ought to
remember that we established our Copartnership
on terms of perfect equality, and that we have
advanced at least our equal snares in the public
itock. You cannot therefore pretend any right
\_PubliJhet? on WednefJay and Saturday.]
to govern us in the buliuefs. As to your boy,
Dickey, we have knowu him many years. He is
a goodnatured fellow when he can have his own
way,but as fractious as Satan when he is contradic.
ted. Beiides, you are sensible, that he never could
endure it, that we formerly appointed your Son,
George, Steward of the houfeholii, and have late
ly given him a full Power of Attorney to manage
the concerns of the company—when Dick, in the
simplicity of his heart, always believed liiinfelf
the fitteft man of the two—Whereas you and all
the world know, that George is toorth as niany of
him, as Omnipotence could create to gll eternity,
if it had no other bulinefa to attend to. And
now Dick and Bill are finding fault witlithecon
tractof Copartner/hip, because it does not give
you a controlling power over the whole transac
tions ; and they are out of all patience and temper,
because we are not willing to alter it. 111 the
fame manner some of your fervans-lately till eacen
ed that you would break your contiacft, aiid fee
up for yourfelf, unless we would fend all our
head-servants and agents to reside in your do
minion underyour immediate eye
We have always wiihed to proceed in business in
perfect union and equality ; and notwithstanding
these fooliih speeches sometimes thrown out by
your people, we have no idea, thatyouare in the
least inclined to follow theexample of ourprofli
gate Sifter, who has run away from the family,
and now keeps a house of evil fame, at the Sign
of C****ns's Head in Rhode-[(land. We are still
willing, as a matter of etiquette, to allow your
superiority in point of age, rank and p ecedence,
but (hall not submit to theinfults of yonrdomef
tics. We wish you to take these matters into your
serious consideration, and teach some of your
servants a little better manners.
We have the honor to be,
With the most cordial esteem,
Your affedlionate Sifters,
NEW-ENGLAND,
NEW YORK,
PENNSYLVANIA,
CAROLINA, &c.
(From the ConneSicut Courant.)
EUROPE.
PARIS, November 8.
The Count de Mirabeau's motion on Friday lad
in the National Aflembly, to admit the Cabinet
Ministers as Members of the Aflembly, was yester
day rejecfted by a very large Majority, and to
fliew their disapprobation of it, M. de Lanjuinais
moved.
" That, for the future, no Member of the As
sembly could accept of any place in Administra
tion, nor any other place which might be offered
him by the executive power, pending the dura
tion of the existing lelfion of Lcgiflature, nor
for three years after."
This motion, of course, called up M. de Mira
beau, who seemed much nettled at this indired:
attack on himfelf—The Aflembly would not luffer
him to speak till his motion of the preceeding
clay was firft reje&ed. On M. de Lanjuinais mo
tion being put,—
M. de Mirabeaii was admitted to speak. He
considered the motion as directed by afecret pur
pose ; in which cafe, fays he, I propose to limit
the exclusion of those persons whom the author
has in view by it. I know but two who can be
the objecft of it, himfelf and me. He has no
doubt the fame opinion of himlelf as I have of
myfelf. I am not therefore aftoniflied that he
should think me incapable of filch a function. I
therefore begin by proposing to limit the exclu
sion of this motion to M. de Mirabeau.
In other parts of his speech, M. de Mirabeaii
entered into the absurdity of fucli a motion.
" Shall it, " fays he, " be supposed, that the
election of a whole nation cannot comprehend
within it a good Ministry ? Shall the confidence
of the Nation towards a citizen be a title of ex
clusion to the confidence of the Monarch . The
declaration of rights gives every man access
to all employments. Shall we then derogate
from this principle, by excluding the National
Representatives ? Shall what is a means of pu
lie fafety to our neighbours be afource of misfor
tune to France ?"
All this fair reafoningand argument could not
obftrudt M. de Lanjuinais motion being earned,
and it accordingly palled as we have given it, ex
cept with the omission of the 1 ast words, nor for
three years after, which were referred to future
has the towering ambition of Mirab ""
been completely fruftrated Though he has the
art fometunes to persuade by !
ing, it is evident he has not had ulnafyuerade the secret view of hisboaftedpatrio
tifm. Every unprepoflefFed mind, while it liltens
to him with admiration, hears him with fear and
trembling.
This unexpected decision does honor to the Na
tional Charaifter of the French, and will, if any
thing can do it, preserve the nation from filial
tleltruiftion. It will probably secure the present
Ministry in their places, which will be thegreatefl
bleffing our neighbours can enjoy. It will besides
lerve as a balsam to the wounded heart of the
unfortunate Monarch, who muit have shuddered
at the very idea of having luch a man as Mira
bean in his Councils.
This motion being disposed of, the Keeper of
the Seals acquainted the Aflembly, that liisMajef
ty had given his fantftion to all decrees present
ed to him by the National Aflembly.
LONDON, Oiftober 30.
In the fcuffle at Versailles between theParifian
troops and the King's Body Guard, the Due de
Guiche, who commanded the latter in the absence
of the Due de Luxembergh, was wounded in his
arm by a cutlass. It was fortunate for him that he
escaped the mob, who were continually crying
out to murder hiin. He next morning decamped
in great hatte for Switzerland.
Orders are given for using the utmost severity
against the Diltributors of Seditious Papers. The
Heralds have proclaimed publicly in Paris a pro
hibition againit mobs, and have authorised the
military to disperse thein.
The Marquis de la Fayette has represented the
neceiftty of the augmentation of the city troops,
the present number not being equal to the service
since his Majesty's arrival, and the expetfted ar
rival of the Aflembly.
THE NATIONAL MONITOR.
No. XXXIV.
While Peace and Freedom on our Country pour,
Heav'ns choicest b Idlings in a ceaseless (how'r,
Wlnle the whole world beholds our glory rife,
The trump of An arch blows a blast of lies.
MUCH is laid oil the fubje<t of the (late gov
ernments ; and some persons appear to en
tertain apprehensions tor their fafety, dignity,
and consequence. Attempts are made to excite
jealousies in the minds of the citizens, left they
should depreciate and finally be loft in the power
of the general governuifent. But if it lhould be
granted, which cannot be the cafe, that the indi
vidual governments should dwindle into insigni
ficance, when compared with that of the United
States, it can hardly be supposed that those who
appear so desirous of keeping down and depreci
ating the importance of the latter, are really con
cerned for the liberties of the people as connect
ed with the former; for it is very evident that
the uncontrouled sovereignty of particular states
has for a considerable time past been exercised in
such a manner, as cramped their commerce, arts
and manufactures, encreafed their debts, and de
ranged their finances ; and would eventually have
precipitated the whole continent into inexti ica
ble difficulties, discord, and confufion. What
then, is it gives rife to the fears of these persons ?
It is nothing more than a foreboding of the ex
tinction of their own individual importance ; and
there can hardly be supposed a want ofcandor in
this observation. Before the revolution we svere
considered as part of the Britifii empire—we glo
ried in the name of Eoglifhmen—we were politi
cally connected with, and dependant on them,
while we received laws, and governors of their
enacting and appointing. We triumphed in their
victories, we felt all their misfortunes, and their
prosperity, fame and dignity, were dear to us.
Under all these imprefiions—under all the humi
liating circuniftances whi h attended our relation
to that country, did the idea ever enter into any
man's head that our individual dignity as men,
or importance as political societies was lellened ?
Did we feel a conscious inferiority to any other
part of the empire ; or did we apprehend that the
exercise of cQnftituthual authority, or the power
and grandeur of the -whole people had any tenden
cy, in the nature of things, to destroy the freedom
or diminish the dignity of any particular part ?
No such ideas were entertained. Excited by the
prefl'ure of exigencies, the people of the United
States have transferred a controuling power over
the Union, to a government of their own institu
ting, not three thousand miles off, but in the midst
of them—a power which every part of the Union
felt the want of—a power which is defined, and
limitted to certain objects, with the attainment
of which, the peace, the honour and dignity of
the whole are inseparably connected—a power
which has already begun to extend its salutary
influences over our public affairs ; and if it con
tinues to be exercised agreeable to the spirit of
the constitution, as it doubtless willj this govern
ment will remove our local prejudices,nationalize,
and carry the American people to the pinnacle of
human glory and happinefs.—Of this power we
are urged to b" jealous, to depreciate, to traduce;
and all the bright and pleasing prospects wind
open upon us, under its auspices—the perfecting
the Union, the establishment of our credit, anc
the general tranquility of our country, are con
fidered as symptomatic of an annihilation of the
dignity and l'overeignty of the State governments !
The meaning of "Which is, that the operation
of the general government will so leilenthe bu
siness of the particular States, that from Ato Z
are in danger of loling their individual conse
quence, to the saving of thousands in the pock
ets of the people. If proper attention is paid by
the citizens to those who revile the rulers of the
nation—who contradict the evidence of our senses,
when they deny that we realize greater bleflings
than we anticipated under the Conftitution —
and you will find them disappointed expectants,
persons who dread losing their State popularity,
those who would be easy under no government at
all, and the credulous dupes of such characters.
NEW-YORK, JANUARY 20.
SUMMARY VIEW of the RKPORT of the SECRE
TARY of the TREASURY, fubmittei to the Hon.
House ®/Reprefenta:ives of theUmted States, on
Thursday lafl.
THE Report of the Secretary of the Treasury,
after premising, in a forcible manner, the
importance of PUBLIC CREDI T, to the charac
ter and prosperity of a Nation—the impolicy, as
well as the impracticability of making a diltinc
tion between the various dalles of Public Credi
tors —the obligation which the public are under,
either ot discharging the interest due on the debt,
or of funding it, 011 the fame terms with the
principal—and the propriety of afl'uming the
State Debts, not only on the principles of justice,
but in order to facilitate a fair and equitable set
tlement of accounts between the States and the
Union, and of preventing that competition in the
railing of Revenue, which would prove either in
jurious to both, or oppressive to the people—
proposes,
That a Loan should be opened for the full a
mount ofthe debts,as well of the particular States,
as of the Union, upon the following terms, viz.
1 ft. That for every Hundred Dollars fubferi
bed, payable in the debt, (as well Interest as
Principal,) the fubferiber ihould be entitled, to
have two thirds funded on an yearly interest of
Six perCent, (the capital redeemable at the plea
sure of the Government, by payment ofthe prin
and to receive the other third in lands of
the Western Territory, at the rate of Twenty
Cents per acre—Or,
2d. To have the whole sum funded at a
yearly interest of Four per Cent, irredeem
able by any payment, exceeding Five Dol
lars per annum, on account both of principaland
interest, and to receive, as a compensation for the
reduction of interest, Fifteen Dollars and Eigh
ty Cents, payable in Lands, as in tHe preceeding
cafe—Or,
3dly. To have Sixty Six and Two Thirds Dol
lars funded at a yearly interest of Six per Cent,
irredeemable also by any payment exceeding
Four and Two hirds Dollars per annum, 011 ac
count both of principal and interest—and to have
at the end of Ten Years, Twenty Six Dollars and
Eighty Eight Cents funded at the like interest,
and rate of redemption—Or,
4tlily. To have an annuity for the remainder
o.fli£e, upon the contingency of living to agiven
age, not less distant than Ten Years, computing
interest at Four per Cent.—Or,
stlily. To have an annuity for the remainder
of life, on the contingency of the survivorship of
the youngest of two persons, computing interest
in this cafe also at Four per Cent.
6thly. In addition to the foregoing Loans, the
Secretary proposes a Loan of Ten Millions Dol
lars, payable one half in specie, and the other
half in the debt, (as well principal as interest,)
bearing an interest of Five per Cent, irredeema
ble by any payment exceeding Six Dollars per an
num, both of principal and interest.
And also (by way of experiment) a TONTINE,
upon the following principles, viz.
THAT the Clafles should be Six, composed ref
pec r tively of persons of the following ages :
First Class. Of those of 20 years and under.
2d. do. Of those above 20, and not exceeding
3°.
3d. do. Of those above 30, and not exceeding
4°
4th. do. Of those above 40, and not exceeding
jo.
sth. do. Of those above jo, and not exceeding
60.
6th. do. Of those above 60.
Each share to be Two Hundred Dollars.—The
number of shares in each Class to be indefinite.—
Persons to be at liberty to fubferibe on their own
lives, or those of others, nominated by them.
Dollars. Cents.
The annuity upon a share in the ill ?
Class, to be --- - j8 40
Upon a share in the Second, 8 65
Upon a share in the Third, 9
Upon a share in the Fourth, 9 65
Upon a share in the Fifth, 10 70
Upon a share in the Sixth, 12 80
—The annuities of those who die, to be equally
divided among the survivors, until Four Fifths
shall be dead, when the principle of furvivorihip
ihall cease, and each Annuitant thenceforth en
joy his dividend as a several annuity, during the
life upon which it shall depend.
On the Loans where interest is payable, it is
proposed, that the payment of the fame ihould be
qarterly —not only for the benefit of the creditors,
but in order to promote a more rapid circulation
of money.
In proposing the foregoing terms, The Se
cretary appears to have been governed by the
following principles :
THAT no change ought to be attempted in
the rights of the Creditors, but what is fanctioa
ed by their voluntary consent, and founded on the
balls of a fair equivalent.—
That the nature of the Public Debt, (being a
capital redeemable at the pleasure of the Govern
ment, which may avail itfelf of any fall of inter
est,) is favorable to the public—unfavorable to
the Creditors ; and may therefore facilitate an
arrangement for the reduction of the present rate
of Interest on the basis of a fair equivalent.—
That, from the encreafe of money arising from
the low Rate of Interest in Europe—that of the
monied capital of the nation—by funding Seventy
Millions of Dollars—the further eftablilhinent of
Public Credit, and other causes, it is presumable.
That the Government rate of interest intheUni
ted States will at the expiration of five years, fall
to Five per Cent, and in a period not exceeding
twenty years, to Four per Cent.
How far the calculations on these various modes
of Loan conform to the above principles, it is at
present impossible to determine ; but from the
general accuracy of the report, and the well
known disposition of the Secretary to support
the Rights of the Creditors, and the Character of
the Nation, there can be no doubt but proper at
tention has been paid to this point.
The period of the payment of interest on what
is at present ltiled the National Debt, is propo
sed to be from the First of January, 1791, and on
the State Debts, from the First January, 1792. —
The funds for the former, (which are the only
ones fpecified in the report) are proposed to,ac
crue from the present duties on Impolh and Ton
nage, encreafed with relpecff to
imported Wines, Tea, and
Spirits, Coffee,
—and a duty on home made spirits.
These articles (as the Secretary justly observes)
are all of them in reality luxuries—the greater
part of them foreign luxuries, andfomeof them,
in the excels in which they are used, pernicious
luxuries. Although, (as before observed,) the
funds for paying the interest on the aggregate of
the State Debts are not pointed out; from the few
articles which are proposed to constitute those
for the present debt of the United States, we have
good ground to b°P e > a nd believe, th»t the re
mainder of the nfceffary Funds will be eaflly
found without the neceility of having recourle,
either to a Land or Poll Tax.
In order that the different loans may be volun
tary in fatt, as well as name, provision is made in
the report for paying to non-fubferibing credi
tors, a dividend of whatever furplusinay remain,
afterpayingthe interest of the proposed Loans ;
with alimitation however to Four per Cent, as the
funds immediately to be provided are calculated
to produce in that proportion to the entire debt.
The foreign and domestic debt of the United
States, with the arrears of interest, together with
the debts of the respective States which are esti
mated at 2 J,000,000 dollars principaland interest,
form a total of about Eighty Million Dol
lars, —the whole amount of the debt of the Uni
ted States, after the debts of the individual Go
vernments shall be assumed.
A foreign loan of 12,000,000 of dollars is among
the articles proposed : The object of which is, to
discharge the arrears of interest due on the fo
reign debt—to reduce the Interest on that part
of the Foreign Debt, which bears an interest of
more than 4 per cent.—to form a capital for a
National Bank, in order to facilitate the collec
tion of the revenue, and such arrangements as
shall be found expedient for reducing the capital
of the domefticdebt—ln aid of this operation, the
revenue of the Post Office is proposed as a finking
fund.
it is proposed, that this loan be under the
direction of Commiflioners to be appointed by
Congress.
The report stated, that the Post Office may pro
bably be made to yield a revenue of 100000 dolls.
So much of the Impost Law as imposes duties
on Wines, ardent Spirits, Teas and Coffee, it is
proposed should be repealed, after the First of
May, for the purpose of enacting a law, laying an
enhanced dutv 011 those articles : These enhan
ced duties, with the proceeds of the present re
venue from Imposts and Tonnage, and a Duty
on Distilleries, See. according to the estimate ex
hibited, will produce the l'um required for the
payment of the interest on the present debt of
the United States, and the support of government.
The idea of discriminating between original
Creditors, and those by purchase, is reprobated—
and every argument in favor of such a plan, in our
opinion, is totally exploded.CONGRESS*
\
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
MONDAY, JAN. 18.
-JVXr. SINNICKSON and Mr. Stone took their
feats, this day.
A petition of James Hubbs, of the State of
New-Jcrfey mariner, was presented to theHoufe
ancl read, praying a relief from a prosecution com
menced against him at the suit of the United
States, for neglecting to deliver manifefts of
goods transported from one diftrid: in the fame
State to another, according to law, of which he
was totally ignorant.
Oi del ed, that- the laid petition together with
the memorial of John Cochran, presented on
Friday lall, be referred to the Secretary of the
Treal'ury.
A petition of Dobbyns, of the kingdom
of Ireland, praying that Congress may grant
him a tradl of land on such realonable terms as
may encourage liimto bring settlers to this coun
try, was read and referred to Mr. Pn<re, Mr.
Scott and Mr. Partridge.
The Speaker laid before the House a letter
from the Treasurer of the State of New-York,
together with a copy of the revised laws of the
said State, sent in pursuance of concurrent reso
lutions of the Senate and Aflembly thereof, for
the use of theHoufe.
Mr. Foster from the committee appointed, pre
sented according to order, a bill providing for
the artual enumeration of the inhabitants of the
United States, which was read the firlt time.
The House adjourned early in the day, in or
der to give time to the committees to report upon
the various matters referred to their consideration.
TUESDAY, JANUARY 19.
Mr. Ames, Mr. Wadf'worth and Mr. Sturges,
refpeiftively introduced a number of petitions,
which were read and laid on the table, viz. ol
Nathan Fuller, John Hrlb; ook,Ruth Roberts, J«re>
miali Ryan,& LemuelCravath, praying the inter
position and relief of Congress infundry cases of
lofles, depreciation, &c.—also the petition of Ben
jamin Bird, stating the loss of a pocket-book in
the year 1781, in which were eight Continental
certificates, and praying that new certificates in
his favor in lieu thereof, may be ifl'ued from the
Loan-Office in Mallachufetts.
The bill providing for theadlual enumeration
of the inhabitants of the United States, was read
a second time : This bill provides that the busi
ness (hall be specially committed to the Marlhals
of the several diftriets, who under oath are to
make returns of their proceedings to The Prefi
dent of the United States—for which services
they are to receive a stated compensation, propor
tioned to the extent of their refpeiftive diftriifls.
Voted, That this bill be taken into considera
tion on Friday next—and that 100 copies be ltruck
ofFfor the ule of the Members.
Mr. Sedgwick of the committee appointed to
bring in a bill for making provision for persons
employed in the intercourse between the United
States and Foreign Countries, informed the house
that the committee had their doubts refpe&ing
the objedl of the House in the Resolution appoint
ing the committee, Whether the idea was to make
provision for persons now employed in the public
service—or whether the design was to extend the
provifiontoappointments of such different grades,
as in the judgment of The President ofthe United
States may be neceflary—and requested further
inftruiftions from the House.
It was observed that from the spirit of the Re
solution, upon which the fubjedt was taken up, it
was evident that it was understood the matter
ihould come generally before the committee, but
as thebufinels involved a variety ofqueftions, on
which the House could not determine with so
much precifion,as they could fromthe information
which may be received from the Secretary of
State, refpeifting the arrangements neceflary to be
made previous to making any provision, it was
moved that the committee ihould be discharged.
1 his motion wasobjeifted to, as it is neceflary
that provision should be made for those persons
now employed : The President is vested, by the
Constitution, with power to make such appoint
ments as he may think neceflary—all that the
House have to do, is to make such provision as may
appear proper : The Legislature may at any
time check an excels in such appointments, by
withholding supplies for their I'upport That it
is evident from the tenor of the President's speech
that he expeifts the Legislature Ihould go into a
full consideration of the fubjed:—and in the bill,
make the neceflary arrangements of the several
officers which it maj' be proper to employ, and
the provision proper for the several grades—the
neceffityof therefpedive appointments, must be
determined by the President with the advice of
the Senate.
Thequeftion for discharging the feleifi commit
tee was put, and negatived.
It was then moved, that the comrhittee be in
ftrucfted to make provision in the bill for the com
penfation of those persons now employed or that
United the inteic ° urfe the
United States and foreign nations.
Mr. Partridge observed, that there is a resolve
on he journals of the late Congress, providing
that no foreign mimller higher than a Miniftef
Plenipotentiary, ihould be appointed-whether
that resolution is now in force he would not pre
tend to determine-but he supposed that the
House was not then prepared to determine upon
eltabh'hng a diplomatic corps of Embaflkdors,
Ministers Plenipotentiary, Envoys, &c.
Mr. Boudinot advocated the motion for refer -
ring the whole business to the committee, as the
House in the difcuflion of their report would be
able to come to more adequate decisions on the
lubjeCt.
The motion was carried in the affirmative.
The committee on the petition of Dob
byns, refpe<fting lands, reported that the Secre
tary of the Treasury be empowered to locate to
the petitioner a tradt in the Weitern territory,
within certain limits.
The petition of Christopher Saddler having
been referred to the Secretary of the Treasury,
the following report was received this day.
Treasury Department, Jan. 19, 1790.
In obedience to the order of the House of Re
presentatives of the nthinftant, referring to the
Secretary of the Treasury the petition of Chrif
roph • Saddler,
The said Secretary
Mojl refpetffully reports,
That except the letter from the Collector of
the diftrit't of Boston and Charleftown, accompa
nying the petition, thete is no evidence immedi
ately within reach, refpe&ing the ground of the
application for relief.
That tho that letter is entirely fatisfacfiory to
the mind of the Secretary, that the affair is of a
nature to entitle the petitioner to relief; yet he
does not consider it as fuc'i a document, as in point
of precedent, would juftifj the interposition of
the I egiflature to grant it. The Secretary will
therefore take measures for a more regular au
thentication of the nature ofthe tranfadtion, and
will submit the result. To this there is the fur
ther inducement of its being neceflary to ascer
tain whether the persons who may be interested
in the forfeiture are disposed to relinquish their
right.
f he Secretary however, begs leave to avail him
felf of the occasion, to represent to the House,
that there are other inllances which have come
under his notice, in which considerable forfeitures
have been incurred,manifelfly thro inadvertence,
and want o( infoimation—circumltances which
cannot fail to attend the recent promulgation of
laws of such a nature—and seem to indicate the
neceility, in conformity to the usual policy of
commercial nations, of veiling some wheie, adif
cretionary power of granting relief.
That neceliity, tho peculiarly great, in the ear
ly stages of new regulations, does not cease to
operate throughout the progress of them.—There
occasionally occurs accidents from which heavy
and ruinous forfeitures ensue, that require the
constant existence of some power cap ble of af
fording relief—the proper inveftmentof such a
power is a matter of too much delicacy, and im
portance, to be determined otherwise than upon
mature deliberation.—Yet the Secretary begs
leave to submit to the conftderation of the House,
whether a temporary arrangement might not be
made with expedition and fafety—which would
avoid the inconvenience of a legislative decision
011 particular applications.—All which is humbly
submitted. ALEXANDER HAMILTON,
Secretary of the Treasury.
On motion this report was referred to a com
mittee confilting of Mr. Ames, Mr. Sturges, Mr.
Stone, Mr. Griffin and Mr. Wynkoop.
Mr. Wadfworth introduced the following reso
lution, that the Secretary of the Treasury be
direcfted to lay before the House such information
as he may have obtained refpetfting any difficul
ties which have occurred in carrying the se
veral laws for the collection of duties on goods,
wares,and merchandize—imposing duties on ton
nage, and regulating the coasting trade, into ex
ecution, and to report his opinion thereon.
Adjourned.
LEGISLATURE OF STATE OF NEW-YORK.
HOUSE OF ASSEMBLY.
SATURDAY, JANUARY 16, 1790.
THE Speaker laid before the House the fol
lowing communication from Gerard Bancker,
Esq. State Treasurer, which was read, and enter
ed on the Journal.
State of Nenu-Tork—
IN pursuance of the I ith section of an adl en-"
titled, " An adl authoriflng the Auditor to audit
certain accounts and claims, and for other purpo
ses therein mentioned," pa (led the 22d day of A
pril 178 J, We the subscribers, having this day
examined the Cacti account of Gerard Bancker,
Esq. Treasurer of this State, and counted the
money remaining in the Treasury, do hereby
certify that the fame amounting to £.14,416 o 84
(which is the ballance according to the said cafli
account) is now actually i n the Trcafury—Wit
nefs our hands this thirteenth day of Tune i 780
COMFORT SANDS,
o r.. „ , HENRY REMSEN,
State of New-Torl, p r ■
Dec. 31, 1789. To amount of „
account of payments made since
the 3 llt Dec. ,788. 64,676 12 7.
1 o balance now in the Trea- . *
fury
J 34,522 7 10J
State of New-York, c ° r 6
Dec. 31, 1789. By balance
due to the State on a settlement
ot account on the 31 it Dec.
By amount of an account of re
ceipts into the Trealury, since the
3ill Dec. 1788. 7J>913 7 8
I, Pfeter T. Curtenius, Auditor ot'lhe Statetf
New-York, do hereby certify, that I have exa
mined the above account current of Gerard
Bancker, Treafurerj and the accounts therein re
ferred to, as well as the several touchers for the
payments therein charged, which are now deliv
ered up to me ; that 1 find them regularly Hated
and balanced, and that the sum of 7 io*
is the true balance this day justly due from the
laid Treasurer to the State of New-York.—Wit
ness my hand this 31ft December, 1789
PETER T. CURTENIUS, State Auditor.
We, the fubfcribers,the committee appointed by
law to affiftthe Auditor of this State in the settle
ment ofthe public accounts,do,in pursuance of the
directions contained in the 4th section of an adl en
titled, " An acfl further to continue the Treasu
rer of this State in office," certify, That the ba
lance of money due from hiin to the State, to wit,
£•34,*22 7 ioi has now been produced to us, and
is actually in the 1 reafury.—Witnefs our hands
in New-York, this 31ft December, 1789.
HENRY REMSEN,
WILLIAM DENNING,
COMFORT SANDS.
MONDAY, JANUARY 18.
A petition of the Mayor, Aldermen and Com
monalty of the city of New-York, praying to be
enabled by law to raise the sum of 1 roool. in the
said city by tax, for the support ofthe Poor in the
said city, and other contingent charges, was read.
Ordered that the petitioners have leave to
in a bill for the purposes mentioned in the peti
tion.
Another petition of the Mayor, Aldermen and
Commonalty of the cily of New-York, praying
the aid of the legislature to raise money by lotted
ry, for the discharge of debts accrued in repair
ing and improving the City-Hall for the accom
modation of the Congress of the United States,
was read and referred to the members attending
this house from the city and county of New-York!
Mr. Watts reported a bill declaring it to be the
duty of the several fheriflfs ofthe several counties
within thisftate to receive and fafe keep such pri
soners as shall be committed under the authority
of the United States, was read a firft time and or
dered a second reading.
NEW-TORK, JANUARY 20, 1790.
The several state Aflemblies which have been,
or in session, discover amoft cordial dis
position towards the General Government. The
amendments to the Constitution ha»e been adopt
ed fully in lb me of them, and by one branch in
others, particularly in Virginia; and what is lin
gular perhaps in that State, by the immediate re
presentatives of the people; justly considering
those amendments as an earnest of what may still
take place, Ihould they be found inadequate.
Congress have discovered so tender a regard for
the rights of the people, and there has been such
a spirit of candor and fairnefs in all their proceed
ings, that there is an universal confidence reposed
in them by the wife, judicious and patriotic cha
racters fin all the State Governments; and the
honor and dignity of the Union is considered as
the glory and happiness of every part of the great
Republic, and of every individual citizen.
ADVERTISEMENT.
NOTICE is hereby given to all the Creditors
of Thomas Eaton, Willi am Pells, Ja
bez Sayrs, Anthony Sayrs, and George
Welch, Insolvent Debtors, now confined in the
; common goal of Newark, in the county of Eflex,
and State of New-Jersey, that they are requested
to appear on Monday the Twenty Second Day of
February next, at Nine o'clock in the forenoon
of said day, at the Court House in Newarkafore
faid, before the Judges of the Inferior Court, and
/hew cause, if any there be, why ast aflignment of
the above Insolvent Debtor's Estates Ihould not be
made, and they the Insolvents be discharged a
greeable to law.
Thomas Eaton, William Pells, Jacob Sayrs,
Anthony Sayrs, George Welch.
Newark, ißthjaauary, 1790. w. 4 t*THE OBSERVER.
No. XIV.
Etcifes and duties on trade* imposed by individual States, inconjijlcnt
zuiththe rights of the Eederal Conftitution —An extract from an
enquiry into the excise laws of Connecticut.
IT is questioned by many good and sensible men, whether the
excise of a particular State is consistent with the federal Consti
tution—l will endeavor to examine the subjeCt, with all the can
<lor its magnitude requires.
The clause of the Constitution, on which doubts have anfen, is
in the tenth ieCtion of the firft article, in these words, " No State
fhall,without the consent of Congress, lay any imposts or duties
4t on imports or exports, except what may be abfolutelv necef
" fary for executing its inspeCtion laws." The question then re
solves itfelf into this point ; whether the excise of any State is an
impost or duty upon imports according to the leter and spirit of
the Constitution. To determine the question, let us fir ft discover
the true meaning of the words on which the whole depends.
The taxes laid by government on goods, wares, merchandize or
manufactures fall under the following denominations : duties,
impost, customs, excise. Duties is a word of general import,
comprehending every species of tax chargcd by the public upon
any goods whatever. All imposts, customs and Excises, are du
ties. Impoft y is striCtly speaking a word of the fame comprehen
sive fignification. It is from the Latin imponoy to lay upon or
impose ; or more accurately from the participle impojitum, any
thing laid upon or impofea. It is equivalent to duty, implying
any charge or price imposed upon goods, and owing or payable
by la w to government. This will be more fully proved after wards.
Customs is derived from the French coutum or coujl, from whence
we derive our word cost. It fignifies onginally price, charge,toll
or tribute ; but according to the practice of commercial nations,
its proper sense is, duties or imposts upon goods imported from fo
reign countries,payable by law to government,by the importing mer
chant,at theDorts of entry or delivery. Excife,fromexcijum to cut off,
is " an inland imposition, paid sometimes upon the confunVption
" of the commodity, or frequently upon the retail sale, which is
" the last stage before the consumption." Blackftone Com. vol. I,
ch. 8. It was originally intended to be a duty or tax diftmCt
from customs—customs being laid upon imports and excise upon
home manufactures. In general this distinCtion is still preserved
in England ; excises being mostly laid upon articles manufactured
in the kingdom, and paid at the manufacturers. In a few instan
ces, duties arelaid upon imported articles, as upon several kinds
of spirits, tea,fugar, which duties are called excises ; tho
some of them are improperly so denominated, being collected
bythe officers of the customs, upon the articles in bulk. This is
the cafe with liquors imported. See Poftlethwaite DiCt. of Com.
vol. I, article excise.
The general distinCtion however observed in England, where
we are to recur for the true meaning of these words, is this ; du
ties on imports, payable a t the port of entry or delivery are called
tuftoms ; duties on home manufactures, which are usually paid at
the manufactory, are called excises. This distinCtion is made,
where duties are laid on the fame articles, and by the fame a£t of
Parliament. Thus a duty on candles imported, laid by 3 Ann. I,
is numbered among the customs. A duty on candles made in
Great Britain, laid by the fame statute, is called an excise. The
fame remark applies to skins, hides, soap, and many other articles.
The distinCtion then between customs and excise is well eltablifh
cd. See Poftlethwaite, vol. I, articles, customs and excise.
What then is the distinCtion between impost and excise, or is
there any distinCtion ? The distinCtion fcems to be this : Impost
is a genus, of which excise is a Jpecies. Impost is a general term,
comprehending every kind of tax, duty or imposition upon
goods, whether imported or home-manufaCtured. Excise is one
ipecies of this rnx, viz. a duty on home manufactures, and in
three or four instances, has been extended to the retail sale of fo
reign commodities.
As the foregoing definition of impost is different from the com
mon idea of it in this State, it is ncceftary to show the grounds on
which it stands :
That impost comprehends every fpecics of tax or duty, whether
on imports, exports, or manufactures, is dcducible firft, from
the derivation of the word ; the original denoting any duty,
charge or burden upon some person or thing. Secondly, the
word has been generally used in this comprehensive sense by the
belt Englifti writers. If so, then excise is one species of impost,
and it is so understood in England.
The best compilers of dictionaries explain iuipoft to be any
tax, toll or tribute. A land tax is an *mpoft upon land, in the
true sense of the word ; and the duty upon the portage of letters,
upon chimneys, or hackney coaches, is striCtly speaking an im
post on those articles; the duty 19 said to be imposed by aCt of
Parliament, and that which is so imposed is an impost or an im
position. This explanation is founded on the belt definitions ol
the word in our language. But not to reft on etymology, let us
attend to common praCtice, or the popular /enleof the word.
Poftlethwaite, who treats expressly of commerce, defines im
post to be, " a tax or duty laid by the sovereign authority, upon
u fuQh merchandiz< sas are brought from foreign countries ; it is
« " sometimes applied to a tax imposed upon domestic productions
" and manufactures.*' It does not appear by this definition,that a
particular mode of levyingand colleCting a tax is neceffarv to con
stitute it an impost. On the other hand, it fecms that any tax or
duty may be denominated an impost. To come nearer to the
point; the excise itfelf is called an impost, in an ordinance of
the Commons, dated 1649; the " impost of excise and Black
ftone's definition of excite makes it an impost ; for he calls it u an
inland imposition ;" imposition here fignifying the thing laid, is
precisely equivalent to impost So that the best writers on the
subjeCt of duties use impost in theextenfive sense before explained.
In this State* we have made a distinCtion between *11 impost
and an excise ; making one to be a duty payable on the firft im
portation ; the other a duty payable by the retailer. But the di
stinCtion is, in a great measure, a creature of our own ; and it ari
ses from our mistaking imposts for customs. We use impost as
theEng]ifhdo customs: whereas both excise and customs are equal
ly imposts. Thus the word impost does not make adiftinCtnead
of duties in English writ'eis, for it compiehends all. Poftlethwait,
Blackftonr, the Parliamentary register use impost In this general
fetjfe, and class the duties payable on importation or expoitation,
under the head of customs—-and the duties paid on the retail sale
of tea, coffee, sugar and certain liquors, together with those paid
by the manufacturer, under the head of excise. We in our
praCtice,. confounded terms, using a general term for one of the
I pecies ; and it is mat'er of some doubt whether the United States
will agree to our sense of the word, in their construCtion of the
Constitution.
But if the word did not comprehend 'excise, so as to re
strain the ftatcsfrom laying the duty ; yet the word duty, which
is used in the fame clause, would extend the prohibition to every
poflible method of levying money on imports. This word is uni
versal in fignification, and the Convention, in wording that
cfaufeof the Constitution, seem to have been aware of some mis
construCtion of the word impost, and therefore used the word du
ty which is of unequivocal meaning* They used two words of
general import ; " imposts or duties." They could not use
them in different senses, for all imposts are duties ; but they used
duties as an explanatory term more generally understood Thus
far we meet with tittle'difficulty. But an explanation of the fub
iequent pert of the clause is not so easy. The question depends on
Ihe true meaning of the words imports and exports.
(The rcmor.nd'cr on Saturday.)
BOSTON.
SYSTEM OF PUBLIC EDUCATION.
VOTES of the COMMITTEE appointed to carry into execution the
SYSTEM of PUBLIC EDUCATION, adopted iy the Town
BOSTON, 1 §th Oflober, 1789.
AT a meeting of the said Committee, held Dec. 1, 1789*
VOTED—I. That the Latin Grammar School be divided
into four Classes, and that the following Books be used in the ref
petlive Classes.
Ift Clafs—Cheever' s Accidence. Corderius's Colloquies, Latin
and English. NomenclatOr. Fables, Latin and English.
Ward's Latin Grammar, or Eutropius.
2d Clafs—Clarke's Introduction, Latin and English. Ward's
Latin Grammar. Eutropius continued. Sele£tae e Veteri Testa
mento Hiftoriac, or Cajlalio's Dialogues. The making of Latin
from Garrclfon's Exercises.
3d CJafs—Cafar's Commentaries. Tully's Epistles, or Offices.
Ovid's Metamorjihofes. Virgil. Greek Grammar. The making
of Latin, from King's History of the Heathen Gods.
4th Class—Virgil, continued. Tufly's Orations. GreekTefta
ment. Horace. Homer. Gradus ad Parnaffum. The making
of Latin, continued.
That those Boys who attend the Latin School, be allowed to
attend the Writing Schools in the following hours, viz. The lft
Class from half pad nine o'clock, A. M. until eleven, or from
hals-past three, P. M. as shall be found most convenient, and the
2d class in the fame manner for the firft half of that year.
11. That the following Books be ufcd ih the Reading Schools,
viz.
The Holy Bible. Webjler's Spelling Book, or firft part of his
Institute. The Young Ladies' Accidence ; and, Webjler's Ame
rican Selcftion of Lessons in Reading and Speaking ; or third part
of his Grammatical Institute.
That the Mailers introduce the following Books when found
expedient, viz.
The Children's Friend. Morse's Geography abridged.
That the News-papers be introduced occasionally, at the dis
cretion of the Masters.
That the upper Class in the Reading Schools be inftru&ed in
epistolary Writing and other Composition.
111. That an uniform method of teaching Arithmetic be used
m the several Writing Scnools; viz.
Numeration. Simple Addition, Subtraction, Multiplication
and Division. Compound Addition, Subtraction, Multiplication,
and Division. Reduction. The single Rule of Three, dire£t.
Practice.
[T are and Trett, Interest, Fellowship, Exchange, &c. are confi- I
dered as included in the above rules.]
Vulgar and Decimal Frattions.
That the Children begin to learn Arithmetic at 11 years of age.
That at 12 years of age, ihe Children be taught to make Pens.
IV. That the Reading Schools be divided into four Classes.
That from the third Monday in O&ober to the third Monday in
April, for one month, viz. from the firft Monday in the month,
the firft and second ClaHes attend the Reading, and the third and
fourth, the Writing Schools in the Morning. The firft arid second
attend the Writing Schools, the third and fourth the Reading
Schools in the afternoon. The month following, thfc order be
reversed, and so alternately during the above time. And that
f rom the third Monday in April to the third Monday in 06tober,
for one month, viz. From the firft Monday in the month, all the
Boys attend the Reading Schools, and all the Girls the Writing
Schools in the Morning; that all the Boys attend the Writing
Schools, and all the Girls the Reading Schools in the afternoon ;
the month following the order to be reversed, and thus alternate
ly during those fix months. That it beunderftood that Irom the
third Monday in April to the firft Monday in June, be consider
ed as the firft Month of the Summer term. That from the third
Monday in October, to the firft Monday in December, be consi
dered as the firft month of the Winter term.
V. That the following hours be punctually observed in all the
Schools, viz. From the third Monday in April to the third Mon
day in O&ober, the Schools begin at halfpaft 7 o'clock, A. M. and
continue until 11, and begin at half p«ft one o'clock, P. M. and
continue until 5. That from the third Monday in October to the
third Monday in April, the Schools begin at half past 8 o'clock,
A. M. and continue until 11, and begin at half past one o'clock,
P. M. and continue until half past 4.
VI. That the Masters be excused from keeping school on the
following days and times, viz.
The afternoon of every Thursday and Saturday throughout the
year. The afternoon preceding Fasts and Thanksgivings. Four
half days of Artillery Training, in the afternoon. First Monday
in April. Six days in Election Week. First Monday in June.
Fourth Day of July* or Anniversary of Independence. The four
last days in Commencement Week. Christmas Day, and on the
general Training Days •
Dec. 14, 1789, Voted, That it be the indifpenfible duty of the
several School-Masters, daily to commence the duties of their of
fice by prayer, and reading a portion of the sacred scriptures, at
the hour afligned for opening the School in the Morning ; and
close the fame in the evening with prayer.
Dcc. 21, 1789, Voted, That the Masters never expel any boy
from School, but with the consent, and in the presence of the in
fpe£ting Committee.
Voted, That the InftrUdtor of the Latin School be entitled
The Latin Grammar Majler ; the Inftruftors of the Reading Schools
be intitled Englijh Grammar Majlers ; the Inftru&ors of the Writ
ing Schools be intitled Writing Majltrs.
Dcc. 28, 1789. Voted, That the several School-Masters inftrutt
the Children under their care, or cause them to be inftrufted in the
AlTemblies' Catechism, every Saturday, unless the parents request
that they may be taught any particular Catechism of the religious
Society to which they belong ; and the Masters are dire£ted to
teach luch children accordingly.
RECOMMENDATIONS to the SCHOOL MASTERS, by the Com
mittee appointed tocarry the preceding SYSTEM into execution.
THAT the Schoolmasters confidcr themselves as in the place of
parents to the childret* under their care, and endeavor to convince j
them by their mild treatment, that they feel a parental affc&ion
for them.
That they be sparing as to threatnings or promises, but punctual
in the execution of the one and the performance of the other.
That they never make a difmiflion from school, at an earlier
hour than usual, a reward for attention or diligence ; but endea
vor to lead the children to consider being at school as a privilege,
and difmiflion from it as a punishment.
That they never strike the children on the head, either with the
hand, or any inftrurrtent ; nor authorize one scholar to inflict any
corporal punishment on another.
That, when circumstances admit, they suspend infli£ting pun
ifhmem, until some time after the offence committed,'or convic
tion of the offence.
That, as saras is practicable, they exclude corporal punishment
from the fdiools ; and, particularly, that they never inflict it on
females.
That they introduce such rewards as are adapted to stimulate
the ingenuous paflions of the children.
That they inculcate upon the scholars the propriety of good be
havior, during their absence from school.
That they frequently address -their pupils on moral and religi
ous fubjefts ; endeavoring to impress their minds with a sense of
the being and providence of God, and the obligation* they are
'under to love, serve, and pray to him ; their duty to their parents
and maftets ; the beauty and-excellence of truth, juflice, and mu
tual love; tcndcrncfs to brute creaturcs, and the finfulnefs of tor
menting them and wantonly destroying their lives; the happy
tendency of felf-government and obedience to the dictates of rea
son and religion ; the duty which they owt their country, and the
neceflity of a ftri£t obedience to its laws; and that they caution
them against the prevailing vices, such as sabbath-breaking, pro
fane cursing and lwearing, gaming, idleness, writing obfeene
words on thefcnces, &c.
That, for the fakeof uniformity, in the government of thefchools
the mafters,in iheir conferences together, form systems of rules for
the observance of the children, and present them to the Commit- ,
tec for their approbation ; which being approved, shall be consi
dered as the standing Laws of the Schools.
Convention for altering and amending the Constitution
of Pennjytvauia.
PHILADELPHIA, January y.
Since the committee of the whole agreed, that
the Senators Ihoul d be chosen in the diftritls bv
the taxable inhabitants thereof, they have farther
agreed that those diftriifts lhould each contain,
as nearly as may be, such a number of taxables as
fljould be entitled to eledl one Senator.
The Senators are to be chosen for four years ;
but, when firft afiembled, are to be divided into
four clafles, and one fourth go out every year;
their places to be annually supplied by new elec
tions.
It had been proposed that the number ol Sena
tors alfigned to each district, fhouldbe in propor
tion to its quota of public taxes, as in the consti
tutions of Maflachufets and New-Hampshire ; but
this was generally rejected. Afterwards it was
proposed that the representation in the Senate,
should be in a compound ratio of the number of
taxables and quota of taxes of each district as in
the constitution of South-Carolina, but this also
was negatived.
WILLIAM TAYLOR,
Has for Sale, at his EAST-INDIA GOODS STORE,
No. 4, BuRLING-SII P,
Aflortment of EAST-INDIA GOODS.
Among which art the following Articles :
BOOK Muslins 8-4 6-4 5-4 || HUMHUMS,
Jackonet do. jj Long Cloths,
Hankerchiefs,of various kinds,j| Caffas,
Chintzes, || Seersuckers,
Ginghams, jj Boglapores.
A Variety of handsome painted MUSLINS.
With many other Articles, which will be fold by the Piece or
Package, tow for cash.
And a few pair large handsome Cotton COUN
TERPANES, much warmer than Blankets.
January 9, 1790. t. f.
PROPOSAL,
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
MEMOIRS
OF THE
BLOOMSGROVE FAMILY.
In a SERIES of LETTERS from a gentleman in New-England
to a refpe&able citizen of Philadelphia.
CONTAINING
Sentiments on a MODE of DOMESTIC EDUCATION, suited
to the present state of Society, Government and Manners in the
United States, and on the Importance and Dignity of the Female
Character.
INTERSPERSED WITH A
VARIETY of interesting ANECDOTES.
CONDITIONS.
They will be printed on a good paper and type —neatly bound
and lettered, in two volumes, i2mo. and delivered to fubferibers
at three quarters of a dollar per volume.
(£3T Theft Memdirs are dedicated to Mrs. Was hi ni ton, by
her permijfion. Having seen the manuscripts, and approved the plan T
" She heartily wishes that every laudable effort to improve the
* 4 mode of education in this country may be attended with merit
u ed success." __
FROM the literary character of the reputed author of
the above work, and a table of contents left with the printer here
of, being eighty-three letters on the moil interesting fubje£ts of
education, life and manners, it is expe&ed these Memoirs will
prove a very valuable and interesting performance.
Subscriptions received by the Editor, at his office, and letters ( post
paid J duly attended to.
BOSTON_STAGE.
THE subscriber informs the public, that having contra£led to
carry the public mail in the ftagefrom New-York to Boston,
for the year 1790 —commencing January the firft to go twice a
week till the firft of May, and three times a week from firft May
to firft November, and to employ a person to go thro' with the
mail to take Care of it. He engages that this conductor /hall tran
fa£t all private business committed to him with fidelity at a rea
fonablc Commiflion—he will carry bundles, money, newspapers,
See. And may be seen every Wednesday and Saturday Evening
in New-York, at Fraunces Tavern, in Boston at the fubferibers
House, in Hartford at Frederick Bull's, Coffee House.
Four a&ive men are now engaged as Conductors, who havo
given bonds for the faithful discharge of their trust.
January. 1790. LEVI PEASE.
The Bojlon, Albany, and Philadelphia Stages now put up (ft
Fraunces' Tavern, Cor tlandt-Street,where pajfengas wMpleafe to apply*
THE Gazette of the United States circulates in every tort oj
the Union—being honored by fuhjcribers in Georgia, South ana North
Carolina, Virginia, Mary/and. Delaware, Pennsylvania, New-Jerfcy,
New-York, Connecticut, Rhode-I/land, Majfachufetts, New-Hamp/hite,
drtti DiflriEl of Maine, Canada, Europe, ffer/2 Indies. This ex
tenjive circulation renders it a proper vehicle for Advertisements
0/ a general, commercial and governmental import:—<Uy the particular
dejirc and advice, therefore, of a number of its patrons, this paper
will be open for the reception of advertisements of the above defer) ption ;
which as they will convey intelligence of an intefejling nature, Mr
/or hopes their insertion will meet the approbation of his friends i*.
general. Should the number at any time amount to more than a page m
the Gazette, MVv w*7/ a Supplement. JOHN FENftO.
Publiihed by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maidek-
Lake, nearthcVfw ego-Market, New-York. — p r - ]