A" ; r " 1x \
PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENh'O, No. 69, HIGH-STREET, BETWEEN SECOS'D AND THIRD STREETS, PHILADELPHIA
[No. of Vol. lI.J
L O N DON, Oift. 12
LETTERS from Frankfort fay, that theAfi'em
bly met there for the election of an Empe
ror, has ordered,
That all books, pamphlets and writings attack
ing or reflecting 011 Sovereigns, or their govern
ments, shall be prohibited under the moil rigoi ous
penalties, the authors of them pro:be;;, -,i cri
minally, the hookfellers anddiftiihutors lined 200
ducats for the firft offence, and for the second
panifhed with cor.fifcation of goods.
The approaching dillblution yf the present Na
tional Allembly, and the consequent general e
lection that will take place throughout France,
•will be the true epocha for the permanent elta
bliflinient or final deftru&ion of the liberties of
that country
The latelt feeds of the revolution in France
nay be said to have been germinating upwards
if five and twenty years ; that is to fav, from the
noft alarming convulsion by the lentence of ba
lifliinent being pronounced by the King againil the
Vlembers of his parliaments, in conlequence of
heir havingrefufed to register, and remonftrat
mg aguinlt the injufticc of his arbitrary edidts.
On this occasion he told his Parliaments, rfiat he
would not fufl'er an association to be formed in
his kingdom, which might grow into a confede
racy of refinance ; and that his coronation oath
vvas not, as they vainly supposed, an oath made
to the nation, but to God alone, to whom only
he was accountable.
On Sunday lall a gentleman, whole curiosity
had induced him to examine the internal parts
of St. Paul's Church, mislead hitnfelf, by the
multiplicity of pafliiges into the North front tow
er [corresponding to that where the clock is pla
ced] and from which he was unable again to
find his way. There he remained till Monday
in the afternoon, when by tying his waillcoat and
handkerchief tp a flick, and repeatedly waving
them, for at that height his voice could not be
heard, he attracted the notice of some workmen
in the church yard. Accompanied by a verger,
they went to his afliftance, but, from the intrica
cy as the pallages, had ab;ioft bewildered them
selves in their return. At the moment of his
release, his wife came into the church yard, al
most frantic with the apprehension of his having
experienced some fatal accident.
Though in Europe and America the ordinary
colour for mourning is black, yet in China, it is
white ; in Turkey it is blue ; 111 Egypt it is yel
low ;in Ethiopia brown. Each country has its
reasons for each particular colour ; black denotes
rhe privation of life, as being the privation of
light ; white denoted purity ; blue expreflesthe
felicity whjch the deceased is wished to enjoy ;
yellow, that death is the end of all human hopes
in regard to leaves that fall, and flowers that
fade 5 and brown denotes the earth in which the
deceased is deposited. The ancient Spartan and
Roman ladies used to mourn in white.
FROM THE COLUMBIAN CENTINEL.
BOSTON, December 25.
Thole who rejoice in the profperitv of their country, mud feel
a pleasure on teading the SPEECH of our beloved President,
■which no language can fully describe. The profpe&s it holds out
to the citizens of the United States, arc highly flattering; and it
more than realizes the anticipations of the friends of the general
government. May AMERICA be wife, and justly estimate the
blefiings of her highly favored situation. In the fplehdor of her
lifing beams, the damps, the fogs of anarchy,fedition and every evil
work, die away, and are exhaled into nonentity. The opprefTcd
of the elder world will fcek an asylum in this last retreat of liberty
and her attendants—and founded on the rock of union, the world
ihall fee our country,
" To glory, wealth and fame ascend —
Her commerce rife, her realms extend ;
Where now the Panther guards his den—
Her defart forcfts swarm with men—
Her cities, tow'rs, and columns rife,
And dazzling temples meet the ikies ;
Her pines descending to the main
Jn triumph fprrad the wat'ry plain,
Ride inland lakes with fav'ring gales,
And croud her ports with whit'ning fails,
'Till to the skirts of western day,
The peopled regions own her sway."
Accounts from the Weft-Indies mention, that Count Damas had
been reduced to such extiemities as to solicit afliftance from the
Governors of the Englilh islands. The fame accounts add, that
the feritifh Governors had denied his request.
NEW-YORK, January 4.
By a letter from Judge Morris, of New-jeriey, a veflel which
appears to have been Unity, Captain Barker, from
©cracoke Sound, which place fhc left on the 18th December last,
for New-York, was found on shore at Deal, in the county of Mon
mouth, bottom upwards, on Monday the 27th December. Part
ot her cargo had been pillaged through a hole cut in her bottom,
the rcmaiuder was fecurod by the (hcriff, confiding of 57 cases of
Saturday, January 8, 1791
wine, 6 caflts, and a barrel or two of flaxfeed, and about 5500 hhd
and barrel (laves. The wine was ihipped by Capt. Thomas pox,
lately arrived at Edenton from Boiudeaux, and consigned to Mess.
Hound and Co. pt New-York, a« appears by a letter found in the
veflfel. Four men, rather better drelfed than seamen, the fherift
informed Judge Morris, were driven afliore about a mile to the
southward of the wreck.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
TUESDAY, Jan. 4.
The fallowing RESOLUTIONS, as the bafts of a bill
for the eflablijbment of a LAND-OFFICE for the
sale of the unappropriated lands in thd Wijter/i Ter
ritory, were pajjed the houje.
THAT it is expedient that a general land of
fice be eftablilhed and opened at the feat of
ihe govei nment of the United States.
That two subordinate land offices be eftabliffi
ed and opened, one in the government north welt
of the Ohio, and the other in the government
foutli of the Ohio.
That all contrails for the sale of land above
the quantity of acres, fliall be exclulively
made at the general land office.
That no land /hall be fold, except fncli in re
fpecft to which the titles of the Indian tribes fliall
have been previously extinguished.
That the seven ranges already surveyed be fold
in lots as laid out.
That any quantities may be fold by special con
tract, comprehended either within natural boun
daries or lines, or bcili. •Iter m> fliall in
any cafe be made on a river or watercourse, but
in the proportion of chains back from such
river or watercourse, for every chain along the
bank or course thereof.
That the price (hall be thirty cents per acre,
That warrants for military service be put on
the fame footing with warrants idiiing from the
land office, and that the exclusive right of loca
ting the fame in districts set apart for the army,
ceal'e after the day of
That no credit thail be given for any quantity
less than a township of ten miles square, nor more
than two years credit for any quantity.
That in every inltance of credit, at least one
quarter part of the consideration shall be paid
down, and security, other than the land itfelf,
(hall be required for the residue. And that 110
title {hall be given for any tract or part of a pur
chase beyond the quantity for which the consi
deration fliall be actually paid.
That the of each subordinate office
shall have the management of all sales, and the
ifl'uing of warrants for all locations in the tracts
to be set apart for the accommodation of individ
ual settlers, subject to the fuperintendency oftbe
commissioners of the general land-office, who
may also commit to them the management of any
other sales or locations which it may be found
expedient to place under their direction.
That preference be given, for a limited time,
to those actual settlers, whose titles are not secu
red by the former governments of that country,
and the existing ordinances and actsofCongrefs.
That there shall be a surveyor general, who
fliall have power to appoint a deputy furveyor
general in each of the western governments,
and a competent number of deputy surveyors lo
execute in person all warrants to thetn directed
by the surveyor-general or deputy furveyor-ge
rals within certaindiftrids to be aifigned to them
refpetftively. That the surveyor-general ihall al
so have in charge all the duties committed to the
geographer-general by tlie several resolutions
and ordinances of Congrela.
That all warrants iiiued at the general land-of
fice, ihall be signed by "";ind shall be di
rected to the surveyor-general. That all war
rants iflued at a subordinate office, fliall be signed
by and fliall be directed to the deputy
surveyor-general within the government. The
priority of locations upon warrants fliall be de
termined by the times of the applications to the
deputy surveyors: and in cafe of two applica
tions for the fame land at one time, the priority
may be determined by lot.
697
HUso
[Whole No. i 77.]
That the Treasurer of the United States fliall
be the receiver of payments for lales made at the
general land-office, and may also receive deposits
of money for purchases intended to be made at
the iubordinate offices, his receipts or certificates
for which shall be received in payment at thole
officcs.
That the secretary ot each of the weflern go
vernments, shall be the receiver of a!? payment!
arising from f'afcs at the office of such govern
ment.
That controvcrfies concerning rights to patents
or grants of land, fliall be determined by the
of that office, under wliofe immediate
direction or jurifdidtion the locations in refpe<3:
to which they may arise, fliall have been made.
That the of the general land-office,
surveyor-general, deputy-surveyors-genera), and
the of the land-office in each of the west
ern governments, fliall not pure hale nor fliall
others purchase lor them in trult, any public
lands.
That the fecreraries of the western govern
ments shall give security for the faithful execu
tion of their duty, as receivers of the land office.
That all patents lhall be signed by. the Preli
dent of the United States and lhall be recorded
in the office of the Secretary of State.
That all officers aiding under the laws efta
blifliing the land-office, lhall make oath or affirm
ation faithfully to discharge their respective du
ties, {to their entering upon the exe
cution thereof.
That allfurveys of land fliall beat the expeuce
of the purchasers or grantees.
T hat the fees fliall not exceed certain rates to
be fpecified in the law, affording equitable com
pensations for the services of the surveyors, and
eilablifliing reafonableand cultomary charges for
patents and other office papers, for the benefit of
the United States.
That the of the general laml -eflicr, ffialf
as soon as may be, from time to time, cnufe all
the rules and regulations which they may efla
blifh to be pnblifhed in one gazette, at least, in
each ftare,and in each of the western governments
where there is a gazette, for the information of
the citizens of the United States.
WEDNESDAY, Jan. j
[It (hould have been noticed in our lad that th<?
bill for the relief of Shubael Swaine was read
the third time, on Tuesday and palled.]
The bill more effectually to provide for the
national defence by eflabjifliing a uniform mili
tia throughout the United States, was read th<«
second time, and referred to the committee of
the whole house on Wednesday next—too cooieu
were ordered to be printed.
A mellage was received from the Senate, in
forming the house, that they havepaffed the bill
to provide for the unlading of goods, wares and
merchandise, in cales of obstruction by ice.
The house agreeable to the order of the day
resolved itfelf into a connnittec of the whole,anil
took into consideration the bill, repealing after
a certain time, the act laying duties on distilled
spirits, &c. and imposing others in their Head.
Mr. Boudinot in the chair.
Mr. Parker moved that the whole bill (hould
he again read. This was objected to, as a need
less expence of the time of the committee, efpe
ciallvas the fubdanceof the bill had been print-'
ed. Mi. Parker infilling on his motion, and the
rules of conducing business in the committee of
the whole, being called for and read, the oppo
sition to reading the bill was withdrawn. '
The bill being read through, and the firft pa
ragraph being repeated by the Chairman,
Mr. Jackson moved to strike out the eflcutial
part of the firft clause. He dated his objection#
at large against the principles of the bill—and
reprobated the funding system, and an excise in
particular, as an auxiliary to it.
The tenor of his observations were to (hew that
this mode of taxation was odious, unequal, un
popular and oppreflive—more particularly in the
Southerji States—ln which he observed, its une
qual operation would te molt sensibly felt, as the
citizens of those States have no alternative to a
dopt,' by which they can diminish the weight of
the tax —no breweries, or orchards, to furnifh
a fubditute for fpiritous liquors—hence they be
come a neceflary article. He contended that they
were not only neceflary, but salutary in the
southern regions : This he said had been acknowiedged by an eastern author, Mr. Morse, an
authority which lie presumed would not be till -
putcd by the northern gentlemen,efpecially when
it was considered he was a clergyman. Mr. Morse
declares that grog is a necefl'ary article of drink
in the southern Slates.
Mr Jackson took notice -of the petition of the
college of phyfuians, which had been lately read
in the house on the fubje<ft of distilled spirits.—
He disapproved highly of their interfering in
the buftnefs. He thought they might with equal
propriety, interpose their offices to prevent the
life of many other articles which were deemed
pernicious or of a poisonous quality—He instan
ced mujhrooms—They might petition Congress to
pass a law inrerdidtingthc use o( ketchup, because
ibnie ignorant perfonshad been poisoned by eat
ing mulhrooms.
Mr. Jackson then gave a ihort lketch of the
liiftory of excises in England. He said they al
ways had been considered by the people of that
country as an odious tax, from the time of Oliver
Cromwell, to the present day—even Blackftone,
a high prerogative lawyer, has reprobated them.
He said, lie hoped this country would take warn
ing by the experience of the people of Great-Bri
tain—and not facrifice their liberties by wanton
ly contracting debts which would render it ne
cefl'ary to burthen the people by such taxes as
would swallow up their privileges. We are, said
he,toomuchin the habit of imitating that coun
try —and I plainly perceive that the time will
come, when afliirtfhall notbewalhed withoutan
excise
He then expatiated on the unequal operation
ofexcifes—and inllailced the experience of this
State. A few counties, said he, approximate
to the capital, have borne the weight of the whole
—while the clillant parts of the State did not feel
the burthen—and by an induction of several par
ticulars, he shewed its unequal operation in the
l'outhern States. It will, laid he, deprive the
mafsof the people of almost the only luxury they
enjoy, that of diltilled spirits. He did not fee
the necelfity of parting this law the present ses
sion. The amount of the produce of the duties
laid the lad session, is not yet known—nor is it yet
ascertained whether the citizens will fubferibe to
the aflumption. Let us not lay a tax for a pur
pose, which may never exirt—.for my part, said
he, 1 hope they never will fubferibe. He then
adverted to the excess of the duties already laid,
and the probability of a great encreal'e of that
excess—and urged the propriety of waiting at
least another quarter to lee what that excess may
amount to.
These observations he enforced by recurring
to the recent t ran faction's of the States of Mary
land, Virginia, and North-Carolina-—and he ex
peifted to hear very jliortly that the AHembly of
Georgia had exprelled limilar opinions with the
latter States on the business of the aflumption.
He concluded by expressing a general dilap
probation of the various parts of the bill.
M. Parker said he had seconded the motion of
the gentleman from Georgia not because he was
more averse to this particular clause, than 10 t'ie
fublequent parts of the bill. He exceedingly
disliked the several provisions contained in it.
He then adverted to the general process of the
revenue business the last fellion—and oblerving
on the conduct of the mercantile intereft,to which
so much credit had been given, laid, he thought
they were not entitled to the liberal encomiums
■which had been bellowed on thein for their prom
tiuule in paying the duties, as the certainty and
increase of the revenue, had served to enhance
the value of the public securities, of which it is
■well known, they hold a very considerable pro
portion
He then touched on the subsequent parts of the
sill, which he reprobated, as hollile to the liber
ties of the people—as contrary to the general sen
timent, nor only as partial and unequal, in the
mode of afleflment, but particularly oil account of
the mode of collecting the tax. lc will, said he,
convulse the government—l twill let loose a swarm
of harpies, who, under the denomination of re
venue officers, will range thro the country, pry
ing into every man's houfeand affairs—and like
a Macedonian phalanx bear down all before them
—And tho the government has proceeded with
adegree of prosperity and success beyond the molt
sanguine expectations, yet he very much doubt
ed the policy of trying its strength by an expe
l imept of this nature.
Recurring to the atftual and probable produce
of the duties already laid, he attempted to Ihew
that the additional sum of upwards of 800,000
dollars contemplated to be railed by this bill, is
not neccllary.
He controverted tlie policy of the measure, and
contended, that it would, in all probability, ra
ther diminifli than increase the revenue of the
United States : For the mercantile part of the
community, who have been applauded for acting
so honorably in making their entries, and pay
ing the impolV, will fiad it for their interell to al
wr their condu<£t ; they will combine to defeat
the excise, which will in its operation bear so
unequally on them.
Ileobje&ed -very particularly to the : biil on ac
count of its tendency to promote smuggling.—-
Mr. Parker laid no man was more heartily dil
pofed than he was, to give his approbation oi
every juif measure, for fupparting the public
credit—and doing every thing in his power to
fupporr tlVe conlthutional operations of the go
vernment ; but this mode of 1 ailing a revenue,
heconfidered as particularly odious to the people ;
and at the present moment, he was not i'atisfied
that such an encreafe of the public burthens are
neceflary.
Mr. Stone said he had no objedlion to the de
sign of the bill, so far as an additional revenue
was neceflary ; but the mode of railing it by ex
cise, he exceedingly d.ifliked. He had no doubt
that other means might be deviled—but, at pre
fenr, he thought the committee was not futiici
ently informed refpedting the adl'ia] and proba
ble amount of the revenue from the duties alrea
dy imposed, to determine the neceflity of an ad-'
dition to the revenue. He therefore moved that
the commit tee fhoultt rife, without any further
difcullion of the bill at this time, and that a fe
ledt committee should be appointed to make the
neceflary previous enquiries upon the fubjedt,
and report to the house.
Mr. Fitzfimons observed, that there was alrea
dy on the table a statement from the proper offi
ces of the produdt of the revenue, from Sept.
1 789, to Sept. 1 790.
This statement was read
The'motion forthe committee's rising was put
and loft.
The question on Mr. Jackson's motion for
striking out the clause, was put and negatived
by a great majority.
Mr. Fitzfimons moved that the third clause
should be struck out, and that a clause should be
inferred referring to a clause in the collection
law. The objedt of this motion was to ffiorten
the proposed term of credit forthe duties, to four
months, which, Mr. Fitzfimons observed, was as
long a period as was generally required to turn
Welt-India produce into cash—and an extension
of the credit beyond that time would be no ad
vantage to the merchant, and would prove inju
rious to the revenue.
Mr. Goodhue said he hoped the clause would
not be struck out. that no possible
injury to the revenue could arise from extending
the time of credit beyoiid four months, especially
as the duties will be secured by fufficient bonds
or deposits. He hoped the bill \fould be made
as easy and as palatable as possible, for in any
event it will be an unpleafan: business.
Mr. Lavvrance, Mr. Partridge, Mr. Ames and
Mr. Sedgwick, severally objected to the motion.
Mr. Sherman was iiv favor of it. He said it
appeared to liitn to be neceflary that the revenue
of the United States fltould be as (table as pofli
ble ; he considered an undue extension of the
credit for the duties, as tending ro defeat that ob
ject, while it proves no advantage to the feller of
the duticd articles ; it rather creates a remifsand
:arelefs habit in doingbufinefs, and in its confe
rences will render the revenue unproductive.
t- 1 ♦ • •
The motion for {h iking out was negatived
The committee proceeded in the difcuflion as
far as the twelfth fetftioti,without making any es
sential alteration. They then lose and reported
progress.
Mr. FitzQinons prefehted the petition of Pa
trick Caldwell, praying compensation for dama
ges done to his farm and lands during the late
war—referred to the Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Ames presented a petition from the Bap
tist Aflociation of Maflachufetts. and of Rhode-
Island, praying the interposition of Congress to
provide for corredl editions of the Bible—read
and laid on the tabla.
Mr. Parker laid the following refolutioti on
the table :—That the Secretary of the Treasury
be directed to lay before the house an estimate
of the probable amount of the duties arising from
the import on the tonnage of flrips and veifels,
and on goods, wares anjl merchandize, from the
firft January, ixpij to fiyft January, 1792.
Adjourned.
THURSDAY, Jan. 6
Mr. Boudinot presented the petition of Jacob
Phillips—prayingcompanfation forfupplies, fur,
niflied during the late War ■, —read and referred
to the Secretary of Treasury.
Mr. Benfon presented petitions from the fol
lowing persons—viz, Abraham Davis, John Post,
Donald McDonald and John Miles—which were
read, and referred to the Secretary of War.
Mr. Clymer presented the petition of William
Cook—stating the loss of several Loan-Office cer
tificates, and praying that they maybe renewed,
—laid on the table- " '
Mr. Madison of the committee on the memo
rial of John Churchman; brot in a report—which
stated that there were two objects contemplated
in the memorial ; the firft resetted equippino
one or more veflels to enable the memorialill to
ascertain, by a "oyage, the truth of his man-netical
theory—the other refpefts enhancing the 1 penal
ty imposed by law, for counterfeiting original
698
n;aps and charts : With respect to the fir ft, the
committee declined giving any opinion ; but left
it to the decision of the legifla'tore—the other ob
jedttlie committee supposed might be accomplish
ed by an increase of the penalty already provi
ded by law—the report was laid on the table.
A meflage was received from the Senate, with
the bill, tocontinue an act intituled " an adt, de
claring the alient of Congress to certain adts of
ltates of Rhode-Island, Maryland and Georgia,
concurred in with amendments—the amendments
were to strike out " Maryland"—and to reduce
the term proposed by the House, for the continu
ance of the adl from five years, to one year.
Another meflage was received from the Senate
by their secretary, informing, that he was dired.-
ed to bring to the house the proceedings of the
Senate, on the bill for the relief of Shubael
Swaine —which beiug read, it appeared that the
Senate had negatived that bill.
A letter from the Secretary of the treasury was
communicated by the speaker, a ltate
ment of the amount of the d uties on tonnage for
one year, from the lit of October 1789 to the 30
September 1790 :—alfo a report relative to ap.
propriations for purposes therein mentioned— 300
copies of these papers were ordered to be print
ted for the house.
Mr. Floyd of the committee on enrolled bills,
reported that the committee had examined the
bill providing forthe unladingof ships and other
veflels, iixcafes of obftrudtions by Ice, and found
the fame duly enrolled—the speaker then affixed
his signature to the bill.
In committee of the whole, on the bill repeal-'
ing after the last day of next the atft
laying duties on distilled spirits &c. and impo
pofing others in their stead.
Mr. Boudinot in the chair.
The 12th feclion which fpecifies the rates of the
duties' being read, Mr. Parker moved that it
should be beftruck out —in order to admit a sub
stitute, which should provide for aJdWerent mode
of railing the requisite additional revenue; —the
propofltion he had in view, he said wr.s a duty on
Molafles—this he observed would aufwer every
purpose, without being liable to the objections
which had been offered against the plan of the
bill.
Mr. Madison observed, that lie had felt the
force of the objections which had been urged a
gainfl the bill : He was its general principled a
gainst Excises—but of all excises, that on ardent
1 pirits he confldered the least exceptionable.—
Tlie question now to be determined he conceived
was this, is an addition to the present amoent-of
the revenue necefiaty ? It had appeared that
an addition is neceflary—for his own part he
should prefer diretft taxation to any excises what
ever ; but he conceived this would be contrary
to the sentiments of a majority of the people of
the United States—and he was fully convinced
that it was contrary to the opinion of a great ma
jority of the house. If laid he, any mode could
be adopted, without having recourse to excises,
he would be the 1 alt that ffiould give them hisfup
port ; but he conceived there was none, and the
plan proposed was diverted of themoft exception
able provilions usually connected with an Excise
System.
Mr. Jackson observed, that his defeat yesterday
fliould not deter him, while he had a monitor
within, from riling in his place to do his dury,
in oppolilion to a system unfriendly to the liber
ties ol the people. He ft id he was not the firft
on this floor, who had been outvoted by silent ma
jorities : Gentlemen of superior abilities had met
withfimilar treatment—He however felt foinuch
rcfpedl for himfelf, as to suppose that thisfilence
proceeded from an inability to answer the argu
ments which he had the honor to oifer againlt
what he considered a nioft ruinous and inifchicv
ous system of taxation.
He then Hated certain particulars refpe&ing
the produce of the revenue, to ftiew, that lo
great a funi as is propoled to be raised by excise,
was unneceflary.
He doubted not other resources of revenue
might be explored, which would be more pala
table : He instanced a tax 011 salaries, pensions,
and lawyers—and iuthefe particulars, hewiftied
that the example of Great Britain might be fol
lowed.
He then dilated on the practice of finuggling,
which he contended would be promoted by this
bill, also the difficulties and opposition which was
jutfly to be expected, by which the dignity of the
government would be insulted. Can this govern
ment, said he, protect its officers from the refent
tnents of any one State in the Union : He re
probated the idea of placing the government in
such a situation.
Mr. Lawrance observed that he doubted noc
every gentleman's mind was open to convicftion,
and he hoped and expecfted that every question
would be treated dispassionately. He did not rife
yesterday to anfvver the gentleman, because he
was not inipreffed witlithe force of his arguments
in the manner the gentleman fuppoled the house
was. He then adverted to the a<ft of the lad feflion
by which thedfbrs of rhe particular States wereaftumed : Having taken this debt upon ourselves j
(aid he, the confequeoce is obvious, nor can we
ever get over thedilhonor of not making the ne
eeffary provision for paying ir.
He then adverted to statements which had (
been submitted to the house by the officer to whom
the Union had entrusted the direction of its fi
nances— From these it fully appeared,that a much
greater deficiency in t'-ie revenue existed than
i'ome gentlemep appeared willing to allow. It
this deficiency exiits, and if the United Stares
are bound to make provision for the debrs they
have aflumed to pay. the duties contemplated by
the bill, appear the nioft obvious for the govern
ment to recur to,
He adverted to the idea of dire<fl taxation, and
enquired on wliat principle will gentlemen con
fenttothisniodeofraifnigthenecefl'ary supplies ?
Will they make the reprel'entation of the ieveral
States the rule by which it (hail be apportioned ?
He doubted whether direct taxes, 011 this princi
ple would be even to the gentlemen
who have mentioned them.
He then remarked oa the objections to an ex
cise, on account of the mode of collection. He
iaid a rigorous collection would bear hard only
on the ififlioneft—while it would protect the fair
trader from bearing an undue proportion of the
public burthens. _ _
He observed on the uneafinefl'es which are said
to prevail in some of the States—and to obviate
the force of these reflections, he instanced the har
mony and peace that prevailed in those States,
■which bear a much greater proportion oftlie pub
lic burthens, than those which complain, as was
buiulantly evident from the documents in poflef
fion of the house.
Mr. Steele rtated his objections at large to nn
Excise: He adverted to the particular situation
of "affairs in l'onie of the southern States, especial
ly North Carolina. TheAflembly of that State
had rejected the proposal of taking an oath to
support the copftitution of the United States, with
Icorn ; they had also refiifed to admit continen
tal prisoners into their goals—and another cir
cumstance, more hostile to the general govern
ment than either of the foregoing had taken
place—which he forbore to mention.
He said I'ucli was the present state of the pub
lic mind, in various parts of the Union, that he
ihould dread taking any nieafures which might
serve to encresfe the fermentation which the
people are in. An excise he considered of this j
nature : It would in its operation produce the
vorftconfequences—Amore exceptionable mode
os-taxation, be conceived could not be devised.—
A direct, or poll tax, he supposed would not be
so odious—and tho for his own part he fliould
prefer 301 excise to. either of the former, yet. Inch
-was the aversion of the people to it, that he ihould
prefer almost any other alternative. He thought
otherobje<fts may be found from which the neces
sary revenue may be raised. He instanced duties
on inland navigation, law procee dings, legal con
veyances, &c.
He then adverted to the operation of an excise
especially in the State of N Carolina, and said
that the consumption of ardent spirits in that
State was so great, that the duty would amount
perhaps to ten times as much in that State as in
the State of Connecticut. On the whole, he ho
ped if the feition is not ltruck. out, that the excise
■will be reduced.
Mr. Sherman observed, that the fubjecft now j
before the committee was thoroughly difcufled
the lail session—and as nothing new or of weight
■and importance had been offered the present fef
iiop against it, he thought it would be a uielefs
waite of the time of the houfeto go into a parti
cular reply to the objections offered against the
bill. This he thought a fufficient answer to the
charge of carrying questions by silent majorities.
He then entered into a short conlideration of
the fubjeft generally, and defended the system
4fom the charges which had been adduced ref
jieifting its unequal operation.
(To be continued.)
FRIDAY, Jan. V
Mr. Livermnre pvelented the memorial of \Villiatn Simmons,
principal Clerk, in the Auditor's Office, prayingfor an addition to
his compensation as luch, for realons therein ltated. Referred to
the Secretary of th.-Treasury.
Mr. Goodhue observed, that the Senate having negatived the bill
for the relief of Shubael Swaine.at the houte was informed by mes
sage, vefteiday, without aligning any reaf.m ; and as he was a! a
Jots to account for its rtjetlion, he wilhcd fame itcps Ihould be
taken in the business, lor he hoped that the proceedings of this go
vernment would never be marked with an nnpioper degree of ri
gor and severity..
He moved for leave to bring in a bill to provide generally tor
the relief of p'erfons thiisHTuiaied : heave was accordingly given
to bring in a bill. .
' The amendments of the Senate to the bill for continuing the
ast, declaring the allrnt ol Conjrcfs to certain acts ol the States ol
ilhodc-Ifland, Maryland and Geoigia, were taken into confidcra-
M'. jatkfon obserVed, that on enquiry he that the State
of Maryland had been fliilck out of the bill, b' cause it was found
that the law, 10 which the clause referred, had been repealed : He
hoped therefore, that the house wouliconcur rfith th- amendment
v! the Senate, oihcrwife the b'il would be loft.
Mr. Stncv (aid Vie had been infoimed, that the rcaion for ltrik-
mg'ont '• Maryland" was, bc;aufe the law reievred to, had not
l»cen piopcjlv authenticated, or conveyed to CongrcO. through
:i.e.proper medium, the Prcf ■ nt oflhc L'n.tcd Stales.—He hovv-
ever ftiould not at present objeftto the amendments, as he doubt
ed not that when the law of the State of Maryland was produced,
with the authentication laid to be neefffary, a bill might then be
introduced tor declaring the air.!"*, of Congrels to it.
The amendments of the Senate were a greed to by the houle.
Mr. Sheiman, of the committee appointed for the purpole, re- |
ported a bill for the efhblifoment of poft-offices and pott-roads
in the United States—read the firfl and fccond time, and 100 co
pies ordered to be printed. r ,
I It Was then voted that it be referred to the committee ot the
whole 011 Monday-week. ,1.111
The order of the day being called for, which was the bill lay
ing additional duties on diltilled (pints—Mr. Parker moved it
fhouid he pottponed, in order to give the members time to conli
der the statements icfpefling the funds received from the Secretary
of the Treasury. A short debate enfued—further procrastination
was objected to—the bill wastaid to be as old as Congress—it had
been as tullydebated as any fubjeft that ever came before the house;
the fcflion is wafting, and the time will hardly admit ot hnilhing
the business which the hnufe are particularly pledged to do this
feflion—one article ot which is to make provition for thefupport
of the public credit.
On the other hand it was said, that the house was not in poltel
fion of the necessary information ; the time while the requisite do
cuments are preparing may be employed to advantage ; and when
the members have fully fatisfied themselves of the exact turn ne
cetfary to be raised, they may proceed underftandingly 111 the bu-
linefs. j
■ The motion for postponing the bill: obtained, and the houie
went into committee on the bill direttirig the mode in which the
evidences of the debt of the United SttfCes, which (hall be loll: or
destroyed, shall be renewed.
Mr. Boudinot in the chair.
i great division of opinion appeared in difcufling this bill—the
ne of the committee was employed only on the fir ft section ;
rt.cy rose without agreeing to any determinate principles—report
ed progress, and are to (it again.
A letter received from the Secretary of the Treasury, was
communicated by the speaker, enclosing a statement of the
amount of the impost from August, to 30th September, 1789, and
from 30th September, 1789, to ftrft Oitober, 1790.
A meflage was received trom the Prefidentof the United States,
by Mr. Secretary Lear, informing the house, that the bill provid
ing for the unlading of (hips and velTels in cases of obltru6lions by
ice, had this day received his approbation and fignaiuie.
Adjourned till Monday.
A L B A N K', Dec. 30.
Mr. Sheldon, an experienced diltiller in tliis city,
has brought the distilling of GIN to such perfec
tion, that thefirftjudges (Europeans and Ameri
cans) pronounce it equal to the belt imported
from Holland.
Mr. Sheldon having madefome experiments o
the Juice of the Maple Tree,' declares, that when
distilled, ic yields a liquor not unlike ARRAC,and
superior in flavor—and that, from the bell com
putation he has been able to make, a tree will
produce as many pints of this liquor, as'it docs
pounds of sugar. Admitting this fatft, a con el u
lion highly favorable to ths interell of the Uni
ted States must be drawn, viz. .that our import
trade from the Wett-'lndietfituuft soon decline, as
the two principal articles-of'k are fiigat.and.puin
—the firlt of which w-art«rodiice itiperior and
in fufikknt quantities, and a fubftitnte for the
latter not inferior to the bell Jamaica spirits.
NEW-TfORK, January j.
The le<riflatnre of this state is now in session.
i
At a meeting of a refpe<ftable number of the sub
scribers to a Dispensary about to be introduced
into this city, for the relief of the poor and
diitrefl'ed, held at the City-Hall the 4th day of
January, 179 1.
The honorable Judge Duane was unaninioufly
requested to take the chair, and William Cock
to officiate as Secretary.
Dodtor S. Bard moved that it berefolved, that
the managers of the institution ihall have power
to make alterations in the original conlHtu
tiou of this society as they from time to time shall
find neceflary.
Provided always, that Aich alteration shall be
fubje<£t to amendment or revocation at any an
nual meeting of the members ; and the lame be
ing seconded, and the queltion being put, it was
carried unanimouily in the affirmative.
The subscribers aflcmbled then proceeded to
elcdt twelve managers, of the Dilpenfary, for
I the ensuing year. And the ballot being taken,
ir appeared that the Rev. Dr. Beach, the Rev.
Dr. Rodgers, the Rev, Dr. Livingfton, the Hon.
Judge Hobart, Mr. Moses Rogers, Ifaae Stouten
bnrgh, Esq. Melandton Smith, Esq. Gen. M.
Clarkfon, John Watts, Esq. John Broome, Esq.
the Hon. HhacßoofevelD and James Watfou, Efq
were duly eledted.
On motion, ordered, that the said managers be
requested to attend on 1 liurfday the 1 3th day of
January instant at the lioufe of Mr. John Simmons
111 Wall-Street, at 6 of the clock, in the evening
for the execution of the trusts, repoled in them,
and it is further ordered, that the proceedings
of this meeting be publilhed.
Publijhed by the direction of the Society,
Jan. 4. W. COCK., See.
Extract of a Ltterfroin Liverpool, dated i\Q October
hjl, to a Merchant in New-York.
" We beg leave to acquaint you, that an order
of council, is ifl'ued to prohibit the importation
of wheat, rye, barley, beans, and oats, into any
part of the kingdom, at the end of fix days after
the price of each fort, taken npon an average of
the prices of the whole kingdom, according to
the tables published weekly in the London Ga
zette, (hall be below the price at which fucli fort
of grain is allowed by the consolidation a<ft to be
| imported at the low duties.
699
11 The firft general average prices of the whole
kingdom, ro which this order of council refers,
will be published ill next Saturdays London Ga
zette ; and as the prices have been on the decline
for several weeks pall, it may be expedted that
the ports will very soon be (hut againll all forts
of foreign grain, peafe,alone excepcedjWhich are
not included in the prohibition."
Philadelphia, Jan. 8.
Extratt of a letter from Cover nor St. Clair, to the
Secretary of IVar, dated Marietta, I'oth Nov.,
" If rhe report refpedting Major Hamtrauick
be near the truth, tliat he had tie it roved four of
the Indian villages, and all their provisions, and
had returned without the loss of a man, the suc
cess will then have been as a complete as it could
have been wished ; and the firft news we shall
hear from the Indians, will be a humble f impli-
cation for peace : Should that, however, jiol
happen soon, I will find means to let them know,
that it will not berefufed if they desire it on rea-
sonable terms."
Christopher Richmond, Esq. is appointed
commissioner by»the State of Maryland, to fettle
the accounts of that State with the United States.
The information contained in the exiraCt of a /etttr■
from Fayittcvills, as publijhedin our lafl, purporting
that the Senate of North-Carolina had rejeficd the ex
traordinary refolittior.s which had pafied the Houfs of
Commons of that (late, we are tnjormedis previteui e*
It seems that those refulutions were amended in the Se
nate, by fi rifling out the preamble, and changing the
word " tnonftrous" to enormous ! and a meffagf was
then sent to the House from the Senate informing, that
if the House would agree to these amendwints, the
Senate would concur in the resolutions .—The Houje
accordingly agreed.
If government Jhould be deterred jron exacting
particular laws, because some perlbns fay t and per
haps •with truth, that they are contrary 11 the fenti
mtnts of the people in some parts oj the uniCn : ~f iS
evident the business oj legislation mujl Ji Mid Jliil.
There cannot be a more odious law to many persons,
and the number is not inconjiderabl'e, than that which
comptls the payment oj' debts-— he>:ci every previous
Jlepto that point is proportionably obnoxious tosthe ca
vils, objetlions and oppojition of those it may ulfimate
ly asf eil .—One great objett oj government, and of /A
new conjlitution in particular, is the dijlril/utifn of
equal juflice—the administrators .of this government
are as the arbitrators btltueen debtors and crsditor
but it is a mojl monstrous, enormous business, that
they fbou-ld be paid, even at a less rate than private
'persons often pay .the referred, in a commer
cial difpu(e between man and man. —It -ixxtuftd be
doubtless a confurnmation of the wishes of many, who•
would rejoice to fee jhis country revet t to its form-r
jlate of anarchy and itnbtcthty y to have the co?np-e?Jja
tions of the legijlature and the executive branches Jo
reducid, as that the goveirment may fink into con
tempt.
A correspondent otferves that the reafonablenejs.
and mode fly of a late resolution of a certain Ifgifu
ture, in which the senators of the united
states are inflrutled to oppose every excise, and ds
rett taxation-law, are abutidantly evident yihen it is
considered, what a monstrous disproportion of the im
pojt and tonnage is now, and ever will be, colhfted
from that Jlate !—■
The spirited and humane exertions of the ci
tizens of New-York, we find have beeri crowned
with fuccef's in the eftabliftiment ot a public dis
pensary in that city. This institution is one of
the most benevolent and extensively ufeful that
can be devised ; and it is but a juit or
praise to fay that on this, as well as on vanou.s
other occasions, the philanthropy and good citi
zen(hip of the gentlemen ot the faculty is abun
j dantly exemplified. /
Extraflfrom the new year's address of the carrier of the Connc<nic
Courant.
" THEN let's leave other realms alone,
And lee what's doing in our own.
" Congress, 'lis true, in various arts
Right manfully have play'd their parts ;
And in the scale of empire rais'd us
So high, in truth it has amaz'd us ;
Fram'd resolutions and reTcindcd,
'Till all they'd done was fairly mended ;
Made treaties with one tribe of Indians,
And to another threatened vengeance ;
Sent General Harraar in a fever,
Tojnake a dam o'er Joseph's river;
To tell the world one Indian Savage
Is worth two white men on an average ;
To throw away the lives of many,
And recommend Lieutenant Denny.
All this has Congress done, and more ;
But why Ihould we the lift run o'er,
For mighty deeds in Congress done,
Or other States, when in our own
We've quite enough on Imall rcfl©£lion,
To load the fterceft recolle&ion ?"
PRICE CURREXr. PUBLIC SECURITIES
FUNDED DEBT.
6 pr. Cents 17/—l7/3- Ps- I •
3 pr. Cents BJ6. —8/9.
*Detcrcd 6 pr. Cents 8/6.-8/9,
UNFUNDED DEBT.
Final Settl. and other Certificate 15/.—15/3
Indents 8/6.-8/9.
S ate i '/6.—8/0.
86J pr. cent.
43i <*o.
a oi tio.
43} do.
76J do.
Usl d# -TREASURY DEPARTMENT,"]
... December ji, 179 c. J
111 obedience to the order of the House of Re
rRESENTATi vEsof the 9 th Day of Anguft lalt,
requiring the Secretary of the Treasury
to prepare and report, on this Day, fucli fur
ther Pj ovifion as rnay, in his opinion, be ne
ceflary for eftabliftiing the PUBLIC CREDIT
—the said Secretary further
Respectfully reports,
(CONTINUED FROM CUR I.AST.J
V
THE capital of every public bank will of course be reftri&ed
within a certain defined limit. It is the province of legisla
tive prudence so to adjust this limit, that while it will not be too
contracted for the demand, which the r.ourfc of business may cre
ate, and for the security which the public ought to have for the so
lidity of the paper which may be ilTued by the bank, it will ftiJl
be within the compass of the pecuniary resources of the commu
nity; so that there may bean easy practicability of completing the
fubfeription? to it. When this is once done, the supposed etfeft
of neceflity ceases. There is the#) no longer room for the invert,
ment of any additional capital. Stock may indeed change hands
by one perion felling and onother buying : but the money which
the buyer takes out of the common mass to purchase the stock, the
ieller receives and restores to it. Hence the future furpluffes
which may accumulate, mult take their natural course, and lend
ing at interest muftgo on as it theie were no such inflitution.
It rncft indeed floW in a more copious stream. The bank fur
nifhes an extraordinary supply for borrowers, within its imme
diate fphrre. A larger supply confequentiy remains for borrow
ers elsewhere. In proportion as the circulation of the bank is ex
tended, there is an augmentation of the aggregate mass of money
for answering the aggregate mass of demand. Hence greater fa
cility in obtaining it for every purpose.
It ought not to cfcape without a remark, that as far as the ci
tizens of other countries become adventurers in the bank, theie
is a positive increase of the gold and silver of the country. It is
true, that from this a half yearly rent is drawn back, accruing
from the dividends upon the (lock. But as this rent arises from
e employment of the capital, by our own citizens, it is proba
' that " ,s more than replaced by the profits of that employ
ment. Itisalfe likely, that a part of it is, in the course of trade,
converted into the products of our country: And it may even
prove an incentive, in some cases, to emigration to a country in
which the tha rafter of citizen is as easy to be acquired, as it is es
timable and important. This view of the fubjeft furnifnes an
answer to anobjeftion which has been deduced from the circum
stance here taken notice of; namely, the income resulting ta fo
reigners from the part of the stock owned by them, which has
heen represented as tending to drain the country of its specie.
In this objection, the original investment of the capital, and the
conftantufe of it afterwards, seem both ro have been overlooked
lhat banks turmfh temptations to over-trading, is the third of
the enumerated objections. This must mean, that by affordin,
additional aids to mercantile enterprise, they induce the me r !
vnZ R.'HV l ° * dventllre e y mid Prudent or ialutary
point But the very ffatement of thething Ihews, that the sub
jest of the charge is an occasional ill, incident to a general <-ood
Credit of every_kind (as a fpcc.es of which only can bank lending
wUh thef PP ° J '" Uft be ' mdiffcrl ' nt degrees, cha,-able
with the fame inconvenience. It is even applicable to gold and
» er, when they abound in circulation. But \trouici it lie wife
on this account to decry the precious metals, to Toot out ired.r
or to proscribe the means of that enterprise, which , s the main
pring of trade, and a principal source of national wealth, because
r-f V Cn J" 1 ? over-trading is one
ation uf * s , of a thing are to determine its condemn,
ation, there is scarcely a source of public profpenty which will
no fpeed.ly be clo fed. In every cafe, J evil is toV~Ved
with the good ; and in the present cafe, such a comparison will
J n thls » that the new and increased energies derived to com
fr ° m u e a,d of banki > are a
»I profit and advantage , which greatly outweigh the partial ills
° , ovei-trading of a few individual, at particular times, or ol
numbers in particular conjun&ures.
The fourth and fifth charges may be considered together These
re ate to the aid which is fometimcs afforded by banks to unfkil
»ul adventurers and fraudulint traders. These charges also have
some degree of foundation, tho' far less than has been p-etended
and they add to the inlbnces of partial ills, connected with more
extensive and overbalancing benefits. more
The practice of giving fictitious credit to imoroocr nerf„ „ '
one of tht/1e evils which experience guided bv imereft r ji"
corrcfls. The bank nfelf isin so much jeopardvofhit
er by it, that it has the strongest of all 1 "
guard. It may not only be injured immediately bv the
quencies of the persons, to whom such credit is snven h C
ssysjiSsKr - " h ""
*%BSS3£saSl r f
mg for the mod part felefted from the class of b L e -
leafing of
declining circumstances are obliged IO emolov ~ I P ? r
countenance which the rule, of , P> ' , kec P U P " ,e
2KS3BK£» 7 %,«1"
» jta P uUic Ih„ ,!„v
- - »-aK
"SKs ■'SP?* s assail
both upon
o. a nation is to be mealured, not by the abundance of >(■
CSSESSBSS bu < by lh < * P'«4-
and silver of « nation; if the consequence of avoiding that lois
mould be a fcauty or dcfe&ive circulation.
Bat the pofirive and permanent incrcafe or decrease of the pre
cious metals in a country, can hardly ever be a matter of indiffer
ence. A* the commodity taken in lieu of every other, it is a fpe-
Cies of the molt efFe&ivc wealth; and as the money of the world,
it is of great concern to the fiate, that it poflefles a fufficiency of
it to lace any demands which the prote&ion of its external ioter
elfs may create.
Tuc obj ftion seems to admit of another and a more Conclulive
infwer, which controverts the faftitfelf. A nation that has no
mines of us own, must derive the precious metals from others;
generally (peaking, in exchange for the produas of its labour and
indultry. The quantity it will possess will therefore, in the 0r
;,7/1 of things, be regulated by the favorable orunfavor
t-r ' ancc °f 115 trade ; that is, by the proportion between its
abilities to .upply foreigners, and its wants of them ; between
me amount of itsexporutions and that of itsimportations. Hence
the 1 ate of its agriculture and manufaflures, the quantity and
tf n lts labour and ituluftry must, in the main, influence
and determ.nc the incrcafe or decrease ol it* gold and ftlver.
hank/f ™ c > the ,nf erence seems to be, that well couftituted
twn hTH the "' Cr " (eof the P r=cious »«'!•. has been
a cZ'trv rJ aUgme 'l. £ ' n d ' fferent ways < the active capital of
imates an I ,-v j" ! s , wh,t " fwrates employment : which an.
i. made tf ith T 3 '"duftry. Every addition which
titv of hntl, ' by , comnbutln g t <> P"t in motion a greater quan
both A.iA C ? crcatc a greater quantity of the produtls of
du-esto f "'ore materials for exportation, con
duces to a favourable balance of trade, and consequently to the
intrnduaion and mcreafe of gold and silver. -
This concMon appears to be drawn from solid p,-emits There
are however objections to be made to it.
cie i7r«L,'<^ d ' that " ba " k P a P" affords a substitute for fpe
> s ocounteraft that rigorous neceflitv for the metals as
a medium of circulation, which m the cafe of a wron bahnce
added ThaTf" Tf de S ree f their exportation ; and it may be
1, r famecaufe ' in the fame cafe, it would re
ffi*wh?chT7 3nd Pa / f,m9 "' OUS reform> in ' he ~r of
liv ing, wnicli the scarcity of money is calculated to produce and
which migfit be necessary to reflifv fuel, wrong balance '
There is perhaps some truth in both these observation, • bu>
they appear to he of a nature rather to form except,ons to'he „
ncrahty of the conclusion, than to overthrow it. The state of
»! S A, T-ft C [ u e abJoluU "W' circulation can beL
pofedto re lift any effed the urgent demands for foecie
AndTri 3nCe ° f 'u ade may OCCaflon ' P rclcms a » <*'ren
of a'cot™ " m *sh,ch5 h,ch 3 to ° eX P™ fn ' e ma "«r of livW
'a correXe" f'' C °Ta rC r W " h means ' can stand in need of
rarely bTf ' ° r , neCeffity ' ,s one «hich perhaps
tv and ' A executed, and the inviolability of proper
(To be continued.)
™ M SSAC|iu ? ETTS STATE lot™
Tickets thai! bedifpofcd of. ' ft"Wt >* the
- SCNBMK.
NO.T TVrtO BLANKS TO A PRIZE "
25,000 Tipkers, atDotUrT eSech " „
1 25,000. PoU arS) . t 0 pg pjj J .L e f,r . . > n
fieduftion oUwclvt anilaa half i ([ (ent f or ® le "/."'i "!*'}, <° a
monwealth.. ■ "• ' e le °' lt W Com-
Pr,z „ . Dollars.
1 of
3
6
10
8a
90
100 -
j 20
161
200
7 S B S ,
8388 Prizes,
16612 Blanks.
1
3
6
1 o
8a
90
100 -
120
161
200
7a 8 5 -
8388 Prizes.
16612 Blanks.
25G00.
(hJT f'CKETS may be had of the (Vv.r-.! st
pay the Prize, on demand-os the Tr/aSitr wil
wealth—of JAMES WHITE at his R* tic tl,c Common
Caurt-Street, and at other S'efas «fuaT k " Sro ' e '
BENJAMIN AUSTIN' iun -|
DAVID COBB, I
SAMUEL COOPER 1 ~
GEORGE R. MU'OT 1 Mana S"s
---g 8 7 i IO ? N ' j
Bojim, Jul, j>B, 8 7 go. J
pT Tickets in the abort Lottery are in h t r i u
corner of Front and Pine Streets, Fkiladclptil phc "
PLEASE TO NOTICE.
Ip" FOR the accommodation of those iuU
™jh to kcome in th J F iri C/J/s of it
iVI A _v. f , * J J the
other root? Bills will A* t. ,• 1 , " I >> S > or
Tickets >"3;£WH "■ *U
filch litters. upon the receipt of
Boston, Dec. 22, 1790.
1%, «!> *
compleated. 7 J h<! dra ™'»£ is
___ 7' raw tf
t" 1 BENEZER hazard and JONAS ADnnin k
into partueilhip, and omrf t Sbve cnttrt,i
Market.Street, a few doort above V ,? t 'at No - >73, in
Firm of °" abme * °Wrtk-6tjtet, where, under the
Hazard and Addoms
CFRTTFTr 4^J" lr^ i,re * ni fcll 3,1 kinds of '
CERTIFICAThS-PAPER Mo N£Y , and BANK
IN. B. Transfers made at the P M,V r.iK lT > -
n:ral tranMeil 011 Commifli-.n " Bu! inefs in ge-
JJkember 29.
700-
' Dollars,
10000
6000
6000
6600
£*>oc
6000
8000
4000
3600
10000 i s «
; 3°°o arc
s 2000
zooo ,
500
200
100
50
.40
< .30 • •
* 20
IO
8- ..
HEN R V KU II
A No - M 3. Steal.Street, near Race-Sirct,
BY advice of his friends in Nrw-Ymlr r> • •
/T'f ' *
He will obtain such Certificate, a* arc required Hv th, f
'»• for * hofc *»» »»»' unliquidated Secures , and tru. JjT'
from and to the Treasury and the Olfices of the ComroiWr, <
Loans, on moderate terms. "oners of
Having tor Icveral vcars past been em D lov f H in it,- t r
the United States, he is well acn ua ™J-dwi.h, ' TlPafu 'y(
forms ; and flatters h.tnfelf that'on (hat fcor«he
vantage m tranfa&ing business here He-is fullv "a
the truth of the adage that « dispatch .. the foul of buftm'f^M
firft impoaanTe """ °* £
Philadelphia, December 2qth, 1790.
IMPERIALLY SON, SOUCHONG, andBOHEA
REFINED SUGARS, COFFEE, and SPICES,
Of the firft^uality— by Retail,
Third-Street, between Ctiefnm and WarVr.-Sireeis.
W H S ERE fv , ? WLUAM TUFF, ol Salem Goumv
VV State of .New- Jprffy, has two nine pound nQt£s of J'l'
gtven by Samuel Hollmjfieat, jun. and b „ «,tain informa ioT it
appear, that my name as a security for the fame ls added to tl'oll
note., unknown to me. I hereby forlpid any person or prrfot
/i an y/ m S" m "t Of them from him ; (or lam deter
m.ned not to answer those note,, or 9 n Y affirm of them t
know nothing gf their deal.ngs, nor will I answer for the fame.
Cumberland County,', Nov. 30, ROfiINS °N.
John Francis,
Late of New-York, refpeftfully informs the public, that he
has opened a
Commodious Boarding House,
WUrVi-'r o ",™' 5 "" 1 ' ° ne door f ™^Rac c -Stree(f '
v\ HhHfc Gentlemen may be accommodated tvitU
<JEIiTEEL BOARDING AND LODGING
By the Plksk Month, or Year, and on the molt moderate terms
Phila. Nov. 20 , , 79 0._ faaw.an,.]
' -Philadelphia, January 1, 1701
HT HE partner (hip of John Dun-lap and Cl,y
*•»<«« w.
The Mail,
and
New Daily Advertiser.
(To it continued every Evening, Sunday excepted )
JSB r° f,kl i«SSKSte&ste
engages that no Means (hall be fmrrH tor • l
slKSTfr* v ; ,: and tisssttrsiri
ccued on turh moderate Terms as to prove fatisfjrtnrv t* th r
zst**** ""J&ss&rs
TlnrH sf A w wi " be f >ul,lin,ed at 'he House No. 2, Lower
uhsc r iprio.Ns are thanklully received at No. 48, Mar-krt-Street'
1 D C. CLAYPOOii.
New Line of Stages.
; r T I HE Subscriber has established a line ofSTArirc r u
; t„nes a week during the Summeril(L ' a " d lbrce
Good Carnages, Horses, and careful Drivers are provided
The Stage for the Eastward leaves ' 4 ' I 73 °"
Hartford- Mondays and Thnrfdays,
-Tuesdays and Fridays
Providence— Tuesdays U*ridi vt ,
Norwich, -Wedncfdays and Saturdays.
JESSE BROV/X! '
322(?
2000
60680
i20Q09
69 —1 wgm
Gazette of the United States,.
Grr THE Edltor re< s uests lh °'e of his Subscribers whose are
rearages amount to ,nd twelve M S uhcr, fi t lon , ,0 make p.v -
mem as soon as possible. He trusts it wilJ p roV e a rfcent a.
pology for tins apphc.Uon, when he assures them that his receipts
or the year ijgt,, do not amount to more than one half of the ac
tual expence of the publication during that period.
Upwards of two hundred thousand copies of this Gazette have
been published and circulated since the , 5 April, , 7 8g, the time
when it commenced. F.omthevery general approbation it has
received, and the extensive and ample subscription which has of
fered, the editor has flattered himself with the oossibility of its
being supported ; but at the present moment a most perplexing
uncertainty rests on that event-owing ,0 the difficulties attending
the present mode of its circulation, and collecting subscriptions
from situations remote from the place of publication.
January 5, i 7QI .
its/ w*.
fcf""" ui '"y~h^~
SUNDAY SiHOOLS
*r ¥r '• r 2 «?-&'2 ft p t£:;tTt"S,
M. CAREY, See. P. T.