(brt'rctte tub
fNo. LXXXIII.]
THE TABLET
No. LXXXUI
" Delight is ever greatsfl at a diflauce ; when we
arrive at it, we dejtroy it; and our hopes, when they
are gratified, are killed.
IN drawing a pidture of human life, we are
apt to exhibit too great a proportion of dark
hades. The melancholy afpecl, which is usually
;iven to such a portrait, forms an image too gloo
my for any refcinblance in nature. Those who
moralize 011 the evil vicifluudes of life, give ft
ftron"- a coloring to their reprefentations,as woulc
lead us to imagine that bitter indeed is the por
tion of mail.
One of the most fruitful to pics of complaint
amongmoral declaimers, is the misery that results
from disappointed hopes. This however is not
more common than fallacious. It we examine
the effects of hope, we shall find it, not only one
of the most active springs of exertion, but a libe
ral source of happiness. Though the ardor and
extravagance of this pallion may cherifli expecta
tions, wTiich can never be realized, yet the delight
of ftich anticipations is incomparably greater than
the pains of disappointment. There is no point
discussed by moi alifts, in which they depart so
widely from the truth, as in ranking disappoint
ments so high in the catalogue of mifcries.
The author of my motto, in faying that our
hopes, -when they are gratified, are killed, gives too
severe a tone to his expressions. It is true that
gratification, equally with disappointment, puti
an end to hone, and perhaps convinces us
that we had indulged too lively a profpecfl. That
particular anticipation, to be (ure, is extinguish
ed ; but probably a more pleasing, if not a more
rational one springs from it. Or, upon the fup
polition that the matter ended here, there isftill
no ground of complaint If the anticipation is
so flattering as .to promise more than can be real
ized by actual enjoyment, the deception atones
for itfelf. If it yields too little happiness at the
close of the pursuit, it is only because it yielded
too much 111 the progress of it. Why should it
be thought material in what stage of the affair we
find ourfelvcs happy, when happiness is confefled
to be the mark at which we afe aiming ? Is the
felicity of man any more incomplete because his
delight is greatelt at a diftauce; or because lie
takes more pleasure in pursuing than in overtak
ing his game ? Can it be a matter of importance
in what exact points happiness coniifts, so that
we by any means attain large portions of it ? The
object we pursue may elude our gralp, or if we
get poflefiion, it may afford less fatistadtion than
we expected. But he mult be a weak or an ill
natured man who feels or exprefles much anxiety
from such a cause. Every man who conceives
liimfelf aggrieved by disappointed hopes, lhould
indemnify himfelf by the pleasure lie derives in
opening new scenes of hope.
I do not mean by such suggestions to recom
mend it to my readers to encourage an habit of
forming prospects thai are alluring and deceitful.
Prudence rather directs that we estimate things
justly, and govern our views and passions, as much
as polfible, by the dictates of truth and reason.
It is hardly worth while to fuffer ourselves to be
del uded, merely for the pleasure that may be felt
in the course of the delusion. Still however I
can suppose a man of a vigorous imagination may
perpetually amuse himfelf with falfe hopes, and
yet be less unhappy and deserve less pity, than
the canting morallft, who reproves the follv and
grieves over the disappointment of such a fclf-de
ceiving mortal,
(To be cor.tir.ue~i.)
FOR TFIE GAZETTE OF THE USITED STATES.
A REVERIE,
(Concluded.)
PERHAPS Providence never chastises the folly
of men more justly than by granting the in
dulgence of their requests. Upon this occasion 1
observed their wishes were accompli/lied, and they
were relieved from a tyranny of which they had
so heavily complained. Upon an appointed day
the Godilefii of Love tool: her flight to the higher
regions, from which ihe had deicended; her in
fluence was at once withdrawn, and all her en
chantments were broken up. I thought nothing
could equal the joy that was exprefled upon this
occasion. The air ruijg with acclamations, and
fcvery man was in haste to congratulate his neigh
bouron theirdeliveranrefroin a thraldom, which
Jiad funk the spirits and degraded the dignity of
*j 6 urnar ' race - They seemed all to be lighten
ed of a load, and to break forth with frefh viva-.
WEDNESDAY January 27, 1790,
city and spirit. Every one imagined he was en
tering upon quite a neW career, and tliat the world
was laid iVefh open before him. I could not help
feeling an inward delight in feeing my fellow
creatures made at once (o happy. At the fame
tune I was anxious to k now what would follow
upon this new revolution ; and particularly, whe
ther it would answer the high expectations that
weie formed from it. Upon looking around 1
was a witness to appearances which filled me with
melancholy and regret, a total change had taken
place in the whole train of human affairs, and I
observed, to my sorrow, the change was every
where for the worse. It was melancholy now to
enter into company, for inltead of conversation
enlivened by vivacity and wit, there was nothing
heard of but a droufy humming to the last degree
tirei'ome and insipid. In the social intercourse
of men, the heart had no place ; pleasure, and
the desire of pleasing, were equally unknown.
Those that 1 had an opportunity of observing, I
thought very much resembled the loungers and cox
combs of our day, who without any view of receiv
ing pleahire, mingle iu a croud, and engage in
conversation, not to enjoy time, but to kill it. I
now fought in vain for those friendly meetings
at vhich I had often bi-en present, where every
one, desirous of adding 1 something to the pleasure
of the world, drew forrh the faireftideas of his
mind, and by the dilf py of tender sentiments
melted the heart, and 'ootlied the imagination.
\V itli what regret did i recollect those conversa
tion parties, in which my heart was wont to be
full, and to pour itfelf forth, as we talked our
selves alternately into ladnefs and into joy.
I had an opportunity of correcting a miflake
into which 1 had fallen in imagining that love
reached only to courtlnip and marriage ; I saw
that it insensibly mingles with our most trifling
actions, refining our thoughts and polifliing our
manners when we are the least aware of it. The
men, had now entirely thrown aside that tender
ness and gallantry which are the great ornaments
of hutnan nature, and a r e (opeculiary needful to
temper and foften the rudeness of masculine
strength. Men and are now placed quite
upon a level, so thatthe foftnefs of the
female voice was dro**Ti >d. in turbulence and
noise. The nzr was filled",'but the fTe'art was left
empty, l'olitenefs was changed for a tame civili
ty ; wit formeriinent ; and sincerity for dulnefs.
1 began to think more highly than ever of the
lair sex, and regarded them iu a new light, as a
beautiful mirror, lying in the fancy of a lover, for
him to dress his thoughts by. People were every
where falling a prey to dejection and complain
ing of the faintnefs of human enjoyments as
might well be expected, when the influence of
love was withdrawn froin them, which by in
spiring romantic hopes, and romantic fears, keeps
the mind always in motion, and makes it run
clear and bright. Youmay be sure, nothing could
make a more ridiculous appearance than courtfliip
at a time when women retained their vanity, after
they had loft their charms. Such is the force of
habit, that you might often fee a pretty creature
twirling her fan and playing off her little enchant
ing airs before her lover, who perhaps fat all
that time perfectly insensible, and fingering his
buttons or picking his teeth. Vanity I perceived
is a kind of instinct in women, that made them
employ the wholeartillery of their charms, when
they knew they could do no execution. Indeed
their airs appeared so ridiculous now in the eyes
of the men, that they had often much ado to
refrain from laughter. The coquettes parti
cularly, in their flutterings to and fro, made as
odd a figure as fiili who fliould be frozen
around in the very act of swimming. Out of
respect to the ladies however, I would compare
them to the Grecian Chiefs, who according to the
representations of the poets, carried with them
so lively an impression of their former employ
ments,that they would be marflialing their troops,
and brandishing their swords, even in the fliades
below. However the fair sex were soon relieved
from this fort of ridicule. They no longer took
any pains to smooth their brow, to foften their
features into a smile, or to light up the beam*bf
brightness in their eye. Careless of offending
where they knew they could not please, they be
came negligent in their persons, and vulgar in
their air. I cannot express the regret I felt up
on heholding the faireft and most beautiful part
of the creation thus thrown into fliade.
I thought, I perceived that the fine arts began
to languish ; the paintings, that made their ap
pearance at this time, were neither so boldly or so
brightly colored, as those I was wont to survey ;
they were chiefly confined to still life. I observed
however, that the extinction of love afFe&ed poetry
still more than painting.—lt no longer regaled
£>Uks.
[.Piiblifheit (in IVednefday ami Saturday.]
the mind with descriptions of beauty, or foften
ed it with tender dillrels. Its enchantments
were entirely dillolved ; that enchantment which
will carry us frbm \vorld to world without mov
ing from our feats, will raise a creation
around us, will make us rejoice when their ii no
thing to rejoice in, -and tremble when there is
nothing to alarm us. Thele interesting situa
tions, which awaken the attention, and enchain
the mindin foleinn fHrprife, till it breaks furth
into agony or rapture ; now no longer existed
in nature, and were no longer described by tins
poet; he wrote rather from memory than feel
*ng> f or tke breath of iiifpirat'tort had ceased !
Upon this occasion Iwas not ai* all surprised at
the decline of eloquence. I have often thought
love thenurfeof fenfibility,and that i/it were not
clierifhed by thispaflion it would grow'cold, and
give way to a felfifh indifference. My conjecture
was now abundantly confirmed, 1 fitw ma
ny difcoui fes composed at this time, that \vere
well argued,elegant and correct ; they all want
ed those eflential touches that give language it?
power of perluading.
One thing a good deal surprised me, and that
was, to observe that even the profound parrs of
learning were less attended to than ever. I was
well aware that few apply themselves closely to
lludy, but with the hope of sometimes displaying
their acquisitions to the public ; and I had ima
gined fame was a fufficient recompence, for anv
toil human nature could sustain ; but I was sur
prised to find that in all great and noble underta
kings, the desire of appearing respectable in the
eyes of a beloved object was of more consequence
than the general admiration of mankind.
These, I thought, were not the only melancho
ly consequences that flowed from the departure
of love. It may be fuflicient however to observe
in general, that human nature was becalmed, and
all its fineft emotions frozen into torpid insensi
bility. The situation ofmankind was truly pitia
ble. Strangers to the delicate pleasures of the
heart, every thing round them looked cheerless
and barren. Calamity left them nothing to hope,
and prosperity gave them nothing to enjoy. '
I observed that they were now as delirous of
bringing hgy had
befcn bertfr? to exclude it. 7fflehgtK,7 J, "
Jupiter was touched withcompalhon at their un
happy situation, and appointed a day in which
Love was to revisit the abodes of men. An im
mense number ofpeople of all orders and ranks ;
and of every age and condition ; aflembled thern
felves as you may suppose, to behold the descent
of the Goddess, and to hail her approach. The
Heavens I thought glowed as she descended, and
so many beautiful streaks of light glanced along
the furface of the Iky, that they divided it into
separate tradts, brightened up every cloud within
it, and turned the whole into an aerial landscape.
The birds at the fame time leaped among the
branches, and warbling their fprightlieft notes,
filled the air with a confufed melody of founds,
that was iuexpreffibly delightful. Every thing
looked brighter than before—every thing fmelled
sweeter, and seemed to offer up frelh incense to
the Goddess. The face of nature was changed,
and the creation seemed to grow new again. My
heart glowed with delight. I rejoiced in the re
novation of nature, and was revived through my
inmost powers. There thrilled through me a de
lightful sensation of freflinefs and novelty, similar
to what a happy spirit may be supposed to feel,
when he firft enters a new state of existence, and
opens his eyes on immortality.
I thought 1 had but a very confufed idea of the
person of the Goddess herfelf, for her raiment
was so full of light and lustre, that I could scarce
ly take a steady view of her. I observed however
that her complexion was ra.her too glowing, and
the motions of her eye too piercing and fiery, for
perfed feminine beauty. Her beauty, I thought,
was too railed and had too much glory in it, to
be entirely attractive. I was very much aston
ished to observe, that whoever she glanced her
eye upon, immediately fell under the influence
of the passion over which (he presided. It was a
very Angular fight, to fee a whole afl'embly, one
after another falling into love ; and I were much
entertained in observing the change it occasioned
in the looks of each of them, according to their
different temper and constitution. Some appear
ed wild and piercing—others deje<fted and melan
choly. The features of several glowed\vith ad
miration, while others looked down with a timid
and bafhful refpedi. A trait of affectation was
plainly to be discerned in all of them, as might
well be expe&ed from a passion, the very firft
effedl: of which, is to malse one lose the pofTeftion
of one's felf. Several ladies in particular seeming
ly careless and gay, were whispering to those whostood next them, and aftuming airs of particular
vivacity, whilst you might ealily fee their coun
tenance was chequered with anxiety, left they
should chance not to please those upon whom they
had fixed their affedtions. The greater part of
the fair sex however, I observed smiled with an
ineffable sweetness, nor could any thing appear
more lovely than their features, upon which there
was imprinted a tender refeive, mingled with
modest complacency and delire. I imagined that
after the goddess had thoroughly surveyed the
aflembly, and they had seated themselves in some
degree of composure, (he thus addrefled thein—
" Ye children ofmen. Ye abound in the gifts
" of Providence, and many are the favors Hea
" ven has bestowed upon you. The earth teems
" with bounty, pouring forth the neceflaries of
" life and the refinements of luxury. The sea
" refrefhes you with its breezes and. carries you
" to distant fliores upon its bosom ; it links na
" tion to nation in the bonds of mutual advan
" tage, and transfers to every climate, the blefl
" ings ot all. To the fun you are indebted
" for the splendor of the day, and the grateful
" return of seasons ; it is he who guides you as
" you wander through the trackless wilderness
" of space, lights up the beauties of nature a
" round you, and makes her break forth into
" fruitful ness and joy. But know that these,
" tho delightful, are not thepleafures oj theheart.
" They will not heal the wounds of fortune ;
" they will not enchant solitude, or fulpend the
" feeling of pain. Know that I only am mittrefs
" of the foul. To me it belongs to impart ago
" ny and rapture. Hope and despair, terror and
" delight, walk in my train. My power extends
« over time itfelf, as well as over all sublunary
" beings. It can turn ages into moments and
" moments into ages. Lament not the dilpenfa
" tions of Providence, amongst which the be
" ftowment of my influence is one. HE WHO
" FEELS IT MAY NOT BE HAPPY, but HE
" WHO IS A STANGER TO IT MUST BE
" MISERABLE." H -
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
THE REPUBLICAN
NOTHING diftinguiflies man from the brutal
creation more than the improvement, which
every generation makes upon the knowledge of the
former. Animals of an inferior rank are inge
nious in a high degree. Butfucceeding individu
als of any species make no progress 111 this inge
nuity. There are birds, which excite our admi
ration by the curious texture of jheir nests.
Much Ikill also is Abfervable in the tonVenient ha
bitations of the several nations of the sorest and
field. We admire the prudence, which domeltic
animals discover in defending tliemfelves, and
providing for their young. In others we can dif
cem an inftinftive acquaintance with the rules of
government. A flock of pigeons, or other birds
of pafl'age, apparently obierve a good degree of
order and discipline in their flight. A bee-hive
exhibits a specimen of mechanic contrivance,
which in fomerefpetfs furpaflbs the efforts of hu
man artists. The politician, no less than the phi
lofouher, finds matter of admiration in the eco
liomical inhabitants of the hive The regula
tions of their little commonwealth aie worthy ot
the imitation of mankind. It is not without rea
son that we are directed to the puny republic of
ants, to learn leflbns of industry and w.fdom
However, the abilities and arts of tliefe various
animals remain the fame from age to age. A
swallow of the ancients built his house as commo
dioufly and beautifully as any one among the mo
derns A fox or beaver was as cunning and cur
ious in the time of JEsov as at the piefent day
Man only can preserve his inventions and Irani
mit them toliispoftenty for their benefit. Thus
succeeding individuals begin in the course of in
vestigation where their fathers left off. Every
discovery assists the inventive powers of the mind,
and paves the way to still further discoveries.
Nor is there now much danger of losing any im
portant attainment, as the means of fecur.ng and
perpetuating knowledge are so various and effec
tual If as fact as the objects of science multiply,
the departments ofbufinefs and fludy be propor
tionably divided, so that each member may dn;e<ft |
his exertions to a single point, the progreis of im
provement must be continually accelerated, and
knowledge increase in the ratio of compound in
terest. While every benevolent mind derives
uleafure from such contemplations, the patriotic
Republican applies them to government. How
T-iuid has been the advancement of political
knowledge within the present age ! How many
defeifts of ancient forms and writers have oeen
difcoveredand rationally exploded ! Many errors
of more modern theorists have also been fucceflive
-3v corredled. And doubtless future experiments
-vJill continue to reform the science, or rather the
art of government.
rjjo Il.of the Republican isrece.ved, and (hall appear in our
next The author is entitled to our thanks for his Communica
tions • We mall continue to notice by an early insertion, those
No.—I
[—330—.
Lines taken from a BOSTON GAZETTE oj >783-
Written by Mr. Dawes.
On the Death of the Honorable JAMES OTIS,
killed by lightning.
WHEN, flufh'd withconqueft. and elate with pride,
A BritilH despot Heaven's high will defied;
And, bent on blood, by lust of rule inrlin d,
With odious (hackles vex'd the free-born mind,
On these young shores (ct up unjust command,
And spread the slaves of office round the land :
Then Otis rofc, and great in patriot fame,
To liftning crouds rejtjlance dar'd proclaim.
From foul to foul the bright idea ran ;
The fire of Freedom flew from man so man
His pen, like Sidney's, made the doctrine known,
His tongue, like Tu liy's, shook a tyrant's throne.
Then men grew bold, and in the public's eye,
The right-divine of Monarchs dar'd to try :
Light (hone on all—despotic daiknefs fled
And for afenttment* a nation bled.
From men like OTIS independence grew ;
From such beginnings empire rose to view.
Born for the world—his comprehensive mind
Plann'd the wide politics of human kind.
Blefs'd with a native strength and fire of thought,
With Greek and Roman learning richly fraught,
Up to the fountain's head he puffi'd his view,
And from firft principles his maxims drew.
Spite of the times, this truth he blaz'd abroad—
" The people'sfijely is the law of GOD."\
For this he fuffer'd ! hireling slaves combin'd
To dress in (hades the brightest of mankind.
And fee—they come—a dar£ designing band—
With murder's heart and execution's hand.
Hold villains !—Thofe polled arms restrain—
Nor that exalted head withO'j'U'-S prophane !
A nobler end awaits the pat Mot head :
In other fort he'll join the illustrious dead.
Yes ! When the glorious work which he begun,
Shall stand—the mod complete beneath the fun :
When Peace shall come to ciown the great design,
His eyes (hall live to fee the hand divine.
The Heavens shall then his generous spirit claim
"In dorms as loud as his immortal fame." (Waller)
H3rk ! the deep thunders echo round the flues!
On wings of flame th' eternal errand flies;
One, chosen, charitable bolt is sped,
And OTIS mingles with the godlike dead.
* Upon the right ojtaxing the Ctlonies.
+ Stilus populi fuprema lex" tvas the motto oj one ojhis pamphlet*.
THE GUEST.—No. XIV
Lct foitune do whate'er flie can,
jack ne'er will make a gentleman.
MANKIND in general form a mistaken esti
mate of their own character .—They fond
ly imagine that a favorable change in their out
ward circumstances would invariably conduce to
their happiness ; but aniidft the innumerable re
volutions which are constantly taking place in the
world, how seldom do we fee the sudden transi
tion from indigence to wealth, attended with the
happv effects which fancy pleasingly anticipated !
The truth is, the mind must be gradually pre
pared for every change, to sustain the allot
ments of fortune with dignity, and propriety.—
Hence we find that persons precipitated from ele
vated rank into the vale of pover;y, very fre
quently fink under the weight of their misfor
tunes and on the other hand, a rapid accumula
tion of property, is very apt to intoxicate the
mind, and to render conspicuous those foibles,
which inferior or common situations would have
veiled from obfervation.—ln fliort —
" Cod never made his work for man to mend"—
And while the principle of hope is a fufficient sti
mulus to exertion and enterprise, the established
laws of Providence must be considered as infinite
ly wife and good.—So that in this view the curse
is converted into ablefling " in the fwent of thy
brow flialt thou cat bread"—For it cannot be
doubted that the present regulation of human af
fairs, which has generally connected the acquifi- j
tion of every enjoyment with some degree of la
bor either of body or mind, is on the whole, the
rnoft eligible. I have been led into this train of
thinking, by observing the conduct of many per
sons, who by the sudden whirl of Fortune's wheel,
have been raised from the dust, when nature
seems to have designed they should have conti
nued to grovel, by not affording them minds com
mensurate to the elevated situations they fortui
toufly attained.—While mankind are abundantly
disposed to make every allowance for the defici
ency of those, who conscious of their defects,
have good sense enough to behave with modesty
under the smiles of prosperity—they cannot re
strain their contempt for those who evidently con
sider their wealth as a fufficient apology for the
absence of every mental accomplifliment.—For
it is as true now as it was when the poet wrote,
A wealthy gaudy fool can pal*,
At best but for a golden Ass»
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
MONDAY, JAN. 25:, 179 0
A MEMORIAL of James Price, praying that
his claim for fuppiies furnifhed the Ameri
can army in Canada, may be fettled was lead.
Also a petition of Gabriel Allen, of the State of
New-Jersey, praying that duplicates may be
granted him of certificates which he has lolt.
Meflage from the President of the United States
by Mr. Secretary Lear, traufmitting the act of th«
Legiflatureof Maryland, for ratifying and adapt
ing the Amendments to the Constitution of the
United States, proposed by Congress, which was
read. .
The House resolved itfelf into a committee of
the whole on the bill providing for the actual e
numeration of the inhabitants of the United
States.
1 1 • • . V - • —
Mr. Baldwin in the chair.
The bill being read, it was debated in para
graphs. The firlt paragraph which enjoins that
the Marshals shall appoint persons to execute the
business, it was moved should be so amended, as
that it may be optional with him to perform the
service himfelf, or to appoint a substitute. This
motion was not adopted.
Mr. Madison observed upon the importance,
and many advantages that would accrue from fpe
cifying in the schedule annexed to the bill, the
various descriptions of persons in the United
States to a greater extent, as it would conduce to
ascertain with greater accuracy, the aggregate
number of inhabitants, &c. He moved therefore,
that the schedule be palled over for the present,
which wasagreedto.
On the compensations to the Marftials, it was
moved that 250 dollars be (truck out from the al
lowance to the Marshal of the diftrift of Maine—
that an addition may be made to that of the
Marshal of the diftridt of Maffacliufetts. This
motion was fupp*rted by the observation, that the
business to be performed in Mafcchufetts was in
a much greater proportion to that of the Maine,
than the difference in the allowance proposed.
Mr. Thatcher opposed the motion—he laid,that
in consequence of the dispersed situation of the
inhabitants, and the natural obstacles of rivers,
woods, hills, &c. with the want of roads in the
diftric r t of Maine, the difficulty of the bufineft
must be greatly enhanced, and be in proportion
to these embarrassments —which confederations
render it neceflary that the compensation should
bear some proportion to the extra trouble and
charge.
It was observed that this reasoning does not ap
ply so properly to the Marshals, as it does to the
Allirtants—as the duty of the Marshals relates
ineerly to receiving the returns, and forwarding
the aggregate to the Prefldent of the United
States.
2jo dollars was struck out —and i jo inserted.
Mi". Ames then moved that 300 dollars, the
allowance to the Marshal of Maflachufetts, be
struck out, and 400 infcrted. This motion was
opposed.
Mr. Ames observed that his motion was found
ed on the idea that the bill would pass in its pre
sent form—tho he did not approve of the fyfteni
proposed, as he conceived that public business of
any kind was never done to any effe(slual purpose
when it is committed to so great a number ofper
fons, without a proper responsibility—His wish
was that the business should be fully committed
to the Marflials, and for them to be answerable
for the full completion of it. Upon the present
plan he conceived that it would never be execu
ted in such manner as to answer the end in view,
or so as to juftify Congress in forming any ar
rangements upon it—hut proceeding 011 the idea
of the bill's being adopted he made the motion,
as he did not think the sum of 300 dollars adequate
toa juftcompenfation for the Marftial of that dif
tritft.
This motion was negatived.
It was then moved, that 250 be struck out from
the allowance to theMarffial of New-Hampfliire,
and 200 inserted which was carried.
Some other alterations were made in the bill.
It was then moved that the committee fliould
rife, report progress, and alk leave to fit again,
which motion was agreed to.
The House then voted to go into a committee
of the whole on this bill to-morrow.
A message from the Senate, with their refolva
for adopting the report of the joint committee on
the unfiniflied business which had passed from
one House to the other —in which relolve, they
j request the concurrence of the House.
Mr. Benfon of the committee to bring in a lull
or bills, to conform the laws of the United
States to the present state of North Carolina,
presented a report, which was read thefirft time.
Mr. Hartley of the committee appointed to
bring in a bill to establish a uniform rule of na
turalization, introduced a report, which was read
the firft time.
It was then voted that the House proceed to *
second reading of the bill relpefting North C»-rolina, which being read, the fame was referred
to a committee of the whole House, to be ta
ken up to-morrow.
On motion of Mr. Smith the meflage from the
Senate was taken up, which being read, it was
moved tnat the House Hiould concur.
Mr. Hartley, in objection to a concurrence,
observed, that he had laid a motion on the table
for taking up a particular bill in the state it was
left the last session—and this he did upon a per
suasion of the difference between an adjourn
ment and a prorogation— the latter was a con
current ac r t, the former an atft of one branch
on the latter it was usual to consider all the buli
nefs unfinilhed,as thoit had not been acted upon
—in the former it was usual to resume the unfa
niflied business as thono adjournment had taken
place—and this practice certainly conduced to
expedite business, and to public economy.
Mr. Jackson replied to Mr. Hartley and the
motion for concurrence being put, it palled in
the affirmative.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) laid the following on the
Resolved, that it be eftabliflied as a standing
rule of the House, that every future adjourn
ment of Congress for more than days, lhall
be cotifidered as a termination of the session, and
that at the next meeting the business depending
at the time of fucli adjournment,(hall not be taken
Up unless it be commenced de novo.
Mr. Burke moved that a committee be appoint
ed to bring in a bill for securing literary pro-
White observed that the bill which had !
been before the House, among many other arti
cles, included the objecft of the gentleman's n\o
tlG]Vl'r. Burke, in reply, said that the bill alluded
to comprised a variety of objedts, which he believ
ed would occasion a good deal of difcuilion, and
his wish was to have immediate provision made
f6r one particular objed:—and this might be
done very soon as a short bill would anfvrer the
purpoie.
The motion was adopted—and Mr. Burke, Mr.
Huntington, and Mr. Cadwallader appointed.
The fill forthe encouragement of arts,fciences,
&c. was referred to the fame committee.
Aiourned.
TUESDAY, JANUARY 26.
Mr. Thatcher prefemed a petition from the
inhabitants of the town of Portland, praying re
lief under the operation of certain parts ot the
Revenue Law —read and laid on the table.
In committee of the whole on the bill for adapt
ing the laws of the United States to the present
State of North Carolina.^
Mr. Baldwin in the Chair.
The a (ft being read, it was difcufled by para
graphs. The Committee having gone through
the fame, rose, and the chairman reported the
bill with some amendments. The House con
cedingtothefe amendments, it was ordered, that
the bill pass to be engrofl'ed.
The bill for establishing a uniform rule of na
turalization was read a second time, and referred
to a committee of the whole house, to be taken
intoconfideration on Tuesday next.
It was ordered that 100 copies of this bill be
%n motion of Mr. Ames, thememorial of James
Price was read a second time.
He then moved that this memorial should be
refered to the Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. FitzGmons observed that lie (hould prefer a
reference to a feleft committee, as the House
would in that mode derive information from
their committee, and from the Secretary, as tiie
Secretary could communicate to the committee
the reful't of his enquiries.
The motion for refering it to a special commit
tee obtained—and Mr. Ames, Mr. Fitzfimons,
and Mr. Boudinot were appointed.
In committee of the whole on the bill provid
ing for the a&ual enumeration of the inhabitants
of the United States.
Mr. Baldwin in the Chair.
Mr. Madison proposed the following as the
form ofa general l'chedule, in lieu of that in the
bill, viz.
Free white males under 10
Free white males above 16.
White Females,
Free Blacks,
Slaves,
He then proposed that a particular schedule
Ihould likewise be included in the bill, fpecifying
the numbers of persons employed in the various
arts and profeflions cariied on in the United
Si£it £S•
Mr. Sherman obfervcd that he did not fee the
advantage to be derived from so particular an enu
meration —It would doubtless be attended with
great difficulty and expence.
Mi'. White said, that tho lie should be pleased
■with obtaining an enumeration on the gentle
man's plan, he rather fuppoled that Congress ,s
rot authorized by the Constitution to call for so
particular an account —The Constitution refeis
only to a Census for the more perfectly equaliz-
Jngthe Representation.
Mr. Madison's proposition was agreed to, by
the committee.
Mr. Livermore proposed a clause by which
heads of families, and every male person more
than 21 years of age belonging to any family,
Ihould be compelled by the allillants, if necefl'ary,
on oath or affirmation, to give a true account of
the number ofperfonsin such family—on penal
ty of forfeiting the sum of dollars.
The words on " oath or affirmation" were
(truck out —thepropofition was then adopted.
The Committee then rose and reported the bill
with the amendments—which being read in the
House—Mr. Ames moved that the whole bill be
recommitted, which was voted in the affirmative,
and Mr. Madison was added to the committee.
Mr. Ames of the committee to whom the report
of the Secretary of the Treasury on the petition
of Christopher Saddler, was referred, reported,
That provision ought to be made for the reinif
fion or mitigation of fines, penalties and forfei
tures in certain cases.
This report was accepted, and the fame com
mittee was ordered to bring in a bill accordingly.
Mr. Ames on the part of the committee, pre
sented the draft of a bill, which was read the firft
time.
In committee of the whole, on the bill to pro
vide the means of intercourse between the United
States and foreign nations.—This bill empowers
the President to draw out of the Treasury of the
United States, a funi not exceeding 40,000 dollars,
for the support of fucli persons as he may find
neceflary and proper to employ in the intercourse
between the United States and foreign nations;
with a proviso, that a
Minilter plenipotentiary <hall not receive more
than 9000 dollars per annum, as a compensation
for all his services and expences.
A Resident,
A Charge des Ass; res,
A Secretary,
Mr. Livermore moved that the word annually,
(hould be inserted after 40,000 dollars, which was
agreed to.
Mr. Lee said that in his opinion the President's
power to draw this money from the Treasury,_
should be, by and with the advice and consent of
the Senate, and moved that the clause be amend
ed so as to read agreeable to his idea.
This motion was opposed, it was said, it would
interfere with and leflen the responsibility of the
Prefident —would tend to excite jealousies and par-
ties in the Senate, and may in its consequences
counteract the eflential interests of the United
States—the President is reftridted to a certain fuin
which he may not exceed—and for the expendi
ture of which he mull account— the appointments
must be made by and with the advice and consent
of the Senate,and he may consult them in the ap
portionment of the salaries, but it mult be left ge
nerally discretionary with him, how much it will
be neceflary to allow in particular cafes—for if
his judgement is to be controuled in this point,
or is to be confined and limitted,it is evident that
embarraflinents will very probably ensue—espe
cially as advances of money may be neceflary in
the recess of the Senate.
In support of the motion, it was observed, that
as 110 appointments can be made but by and with
the advice of the Senate—that no treaties can be
formed without their concurrence, it appears in
congruous that they Ihould have no voice in de
termining the salaries of persons which they may
appoint to make treaties, or to carry on the inter
course between the United States and foreign na
tions.—This will give a 1 undue influence to the
President in forming treaties —and, fuperceding
the interference of the Senate in a business to
which they are equally competent, with the Pre
sident, is contrary to the Constitution.
Mr Lee varied his motion, so as to affe<ft the
allowances to be made to foreign ministers, that
they should be apportioned by the Prefidenr, by
and with the advice and consent of the Senate, not
to exceed thefum fpecified in the bill. _ _
The debate was continued after the variation
of the motion—and the arguments drawn from
the concurrent power of the Senate in all the ap
pointments, treaties and connections refpecfting
foreign nations, it was contended equally affect
ed the business in every poflible shape and modi
fication of it. .
On the other hand it was contended the lnter
courfe with foreign nations is a trust specially
committed to the President of the United States ;
and after the Legislature has made the neceflary
provision to enable him to discharge that trust,
the manner how it {hall be executed must J"ell
with him ; his refponfibiliry for the execution of
it to thebeft of his judgment, is a fufficient fecu
r;ty Nor can the Senate be afiociated with him
in the discharge of this trust, with any morepro
priety than a committee of this House—The a
mendment as now stated will induce an impro
per interference, in points which must depend
on contingencies, and these enter into the very
nature of the trust.
On motion of Mr. Livermore the committee
rose, reported progress, and asked leave to fit
again. The House then adjournedtill II o'clock
to morrow morning.
331-
5 000
3000
1400
HOUSE OF ASSEMBLY
LEGISLATURE OF STATE OF NEW-YORK
FRIDAY, JANUARY 22
A memorial and vemonftrance of the society
called Quakers, and praying for the abolition of
llavery, was read and referred to a committee
confiiting of a member from each county.
A petition of William Jauncey, praying that
periuiffion might be given to Junes Jauncey to
return to this State, he being at prel'ent a pro
scribed person, was read and referred to Meifi s.
Watts, Barker and Crane
The House went into a committee on the bill
for authorising the Mayor, Aldermen and Com
monalty of New-York, to raise monies by tax.
Mr. Brown in the chair
The sum of u,oool. was inserted in the bill.—
And the bill being gone through, the committee
rose—the House accepted of the report and order
ed the bill to be engrofled for a third reading.
The House then went into a committee on the
Governor's meflage.
Mr. Watts in the chair
A resolution was agreed to, that it ffiould be the
order of the day on Tuesday next to take up the
proposed amendments to the Constitution. A re
solution was also agreed to, that a committee
fliould be appointed to report a permanent ar
rangement for the support of government.
The committee then rose—the House accepted
the report; and Mefl'rs. King, Jones, Havens,
Tillotfon, and Gilbert, were appointed a commit
tee for the lafl mentioned purpose.
NEW-YORK, JANUARY 27,
The advocates for a difcriinination between
original creditors and thole by purchase appear to
want information, It is well known that the debt
of the United States in innumerable inltances,
was contracted under the most disadvantageous
civcumftances, and the evidences of the debt
poflefled by original creditors, were obtained at
four times the real value of the supplies furnifhed.
When our affairs wore a dubious afpedt, many a
soldier would have starved in the street, with ten
pound notes in his pocket, had it not been for
purchasers, whom every body then considered as
persons " throwing their bread upon the waters,"
in buying at the greatest discount, public fecu
rities —Now which of these two descriptions of
creditors merit mod from the justice of our coun
try
A Society for the pm pofeof promoting the abo
lition of Slavery is forming at Richmond, Virginia.
The Debates of Congress are republiflied in
all the papers of the United States, with an avi
dity which shews that the printers consider them
as highly interesting to their readers.—This is
deriving political wisdom from the fountain head.
The discrimination between the creditors of the
Union so earueftly contended for by some wrong
heads, appears to be generally reprobated, as
favoring of the policy of those times when ten
der laws and regulating a<fls sullied the annals of
our country.
A shocking event took place at Rochester, Maf
l'acliufetts, a few weeks since, when a house was
consumed by fire, and four children periihed in
the flames.
The ratification of the Amendments to the
Constitution by the State of Maryland, is an ad
ditional trait in the truly federal charaifler of
that refpe<ftable republic.
Congrefsis now deeply immersed in public af
fairs—and truly important are the objects that
await their deliberations—the great machine of
government for this extensive empire being set
in motion, the adjustment of its various move
ments so as to produce thebeftgoodof the whole,
appears to be the great concern, and to call forth
the united wisdom, patience and persevering in
vestigation, of the great national Legislature of
the United States.
The examination of the young gentlemen un
der the care of Meflrs. Hardie and Duncan,
will be concluded this day, between the hours of
i t and 2 ; their parents and guardians, and such
gentlemen as are interested in the progress of
their scholars, are earnestly requested t<t attend.
ARRIVALS.—NEW-YORK.
Saturday, 23, Ship Betsey, Rooke, London, 77 days.
William, Hayes, Liverpool, 70 days.
Snow St. Anthony, Cuite, Trinidada 28 days.
Schooner Experiment, Burnett, Wilmington, 35 d.
Sloop Nancy, Ventus, Peterlburgh, Virginia, 3 d
Brig Hull Packet, Lawrence, Teneriffe, 42 days.
Four Friends, Hendricks, Lisbon, 65 days.
Maria, Jenkins, Port au Prince.
Blue Moon, Janfon, Dort, 63 days.
Schooner , , Newbern.
Rambler, Rogers, Edenton.
Sunday, 24,
Monday, 25,
Tuefday y 26,
REPORT of the SECRETARY of the
TREASURY to the House of Representatives, relative to a
provision for thefupport of the Public Creditof ihe United States,
in conformity to a resolution of the twenty-firftof Sept. 1789.
Publithed by authority.
Printed *v Tp.ancis Childs, and John Swains—and fM.at
t'icir Ojfuc, No. 190, Wata-Strut ;JMalfoby Berry tni Rogers.
Kea-York, Jan. 1790-
This day publijhed,©f the S E C TF. T A R Y of the TR E AS UR Y to the
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES.
Treasury Department, Jan. 9,1790.
r T , HE Secretary ot the in obedience to the resolution
c 'he House of Representatives, of the twenty-firft day of
. ept. lait, has, during the recess of Congress, applied himfelt to the
eonfidcration of a proper plan for the fuppoit of the Public Cre
dit, with all the attention which was due to the authority of the
House, and to the magnitude of the object.
In the discharge of this duly, he has lelt, in no small degree, the
anxieties which naturally flow from a just estimate of the difficulty
of the talk, iroin a well-founded diffidence of his own qualifica
tions for executing it witli success, and from a deep and solemn
conviction of the momentous nature of the truth contained in the
resolution under which his investigations have been conducted,
" That an adequate provision for the support of the Public Credit,
is a matter ot high importance to the honor and profperitv of the
United States." '
With an ardent dcfirc that his well-meant endeavors may be
conducive to the real advantage of the nation, and with the utmost
deference to the superior judgment of the House, he now refpefl
fully submits the refultof his enquiries and rcfleftions, to their in
dulgent conftru&ion.
In the opinion of ;he Secretary, the wisdom of the House, in
giving their explicit fanftion to the proposition which has been
stated, cannot but be applauded by all, who will.seriously consi
der, and trace through their obvious confequencej, these plain and
undeniable truths.
That exigencies are to be expected to occur, in the affairs of na
tions, in which there will be a nectflity for borrowing.
That loans in times of public danger, efpccially from foreign
war, are found an indispensable relource, even to the wealthiest of
them.*—
And that in a country, which, like this, is poflefled of little ac
tive wealth, or in other words, little m nied capital, the neceflity
for that resource, mull, in such emergencies, be proportionably ur
gent.
And as on the one hand, the neceflity for borrowing in particu
lar emergencies cannot be doubted, so on the other, it is equall)
evident, that to be able to borrow upon good terms, it is eflentia
that the credit of a nation ihould be well ellablifhed.
For whert the credit of a country is in any degree questionable,
it never fails to give an extravagant premium, in one (hape or ano
ther, upon all the loans it has occasion to make. Nor does the
«vil end here ; the fame disadvantage mutt be futtained upon
whatever is to be bought on terms of future payment.
From this constant nectflily of borrowing and buying dear, it is
tafy to conceive how immensely the expences of a nation, in a
courfeof time, will be augmented by an unsound state of the pub
lic credit.
To attempt to enumerate the complicated variety of mifchiefs
in the whole system of the social economy, which proceed from a
neglect of the maxims that uphold public credit, andjuftify the
solicitude manifefted by the Houfc on this point, would be an im
proper intrusion on their time and patience.
In so strong a light nevertheless do they appear to the Secretary,
that on their due observance at the present critical juncture, mater
ially cfepends, in his judgment, the individual and aggregate pros
perity of the citizens of the United States j their relief from the
embarraflments theynow experience ; their chara&cr as a People ;
the cause of good government.
If the maintenance of public credit, then, be truly so impor
tant, the next enquiry which suggests itfelf is, by what means it is
to beefftfted ? The ready answer to which question is, by
good faith, by a punctual performance of contrails. States, like
individuals, who observe their engagements, are refpeded and
trusted ; while the reverse is the fate of those, who purlue an op
posite conduct.
Every breach of the public engagements, whether from choice
or neceflity, is in different degrees hurtful to public credit. When
such a neceflity does truly exist, the evils of it arc poly to be pal
liated by a scrupulous attention, on the part of the government to
carry the violation no farther thdn the neceflity absolutely requires,
and to manifeftjif the nature of the cafe admits of it, a lincere dis
position tomake reparation, whenever circumstances lhall permit.
But with every poflible mitigation, credit mutt fuffer, and numer
ous mifchiefs ensue. It is therefore highly important, when an
appearance of neceflity fecms to press upon che public councils
that they (hould examine well its reality, and be perfectly adurcd,
that there is no method of efcapingfrom it, before they yidd to its
fuggeflions. For though it cannot fjfely be affirmed, that occa
sions have never exiftcd, or may nut exist, in which violations of
the.public faith, in this refpeff, are inevitable ; yet there is great
reason to believe, that they exist far less frequently than precedents
indicate ; and are olteneil either pretended through levity, or want
offirmnefs, or supposed through wantof knowledge. Expedients
might often have been devised to eifeft, confidently with good
faith, what has been done in contravention of it. Those who are
most commonly creditors of a nation, are, generally speaking, en
lightened men ; and theieare signal examples to warrant a conclu
lion, that when a candid and fair appeal is made to them, they
■will understand their true interett too well to rcfule their concur
rence in such modifications of their claims, as any real neceflity
maydemjnd.
While the observance of that good faith, which is the basis of
public credit, is recommended by the ftrongefl inducements of
political expediency, it is enforced by conliderations of still great
er authority. There are arguments tor it, which reft on the im
mutable principles ot moral obligation. And in proportion as
the mijid is diipofed to contemplate, in the order of Providence,
an intimate connexion between public virtue and public happi
ness, will be its repugnancy to a violation of those principles.
This rtflecli'in derives additional strength from the nature of
the deVt of the United States. It was the price of liberty. The
faith of America lias been repeatedly pledged for it, and with so
lemnities, .that give peculiar force to the obligation. There is in
deed reason to regret that it has not hitherto been kept; that the
neeefiities of the war, conspiring with inexperience in the fubiefts
of finance, produced dircft inftoftions ; and that the fubfequcnt
period has been a continued scene of negative violation, or non
compliance. But 4 diminution of this regret arises from the re
flection, that the 1..fl seven } ears have exhibited an eai nest and uni
form effort, on the part of the government oftheunion, to retrieve
the national credit, by doing jnftice to the creditors of the nation ;
and thai the embarrassments of a defective constitution, which de
feated this laudable effort, have ceased.
From this evidence of a favorable disposition, given by the for
mer government, the inflitution of a new one, cloathed with pow
ers competent to calliDg forththe resources of the community, has
excited correspondent cxpeaations. A general belief, accord
ingly, prevails, that the credit of the United States will quic'klv be
eftabiifhed on the firm ioundation of an effe&ual provision for the
cxifting debt. The influence, which this has had at home, is wit
neflcd by the rapid increase, that has taken place in the market
value of the public fecuritics. From January to November thev
rofc thirty-three and a third per cent, and from that period to
t.nstime they ha\e risen fifty per cent. more. And the intelli
gence from abroad announces effects proportiouablv favorabJe to
our national credit and confcquence.
It cannot but merit particular attention, that among ourfeives
the molt enlightened friends of good government are thofc, whose
expc&ations are the highest.
To juftify and preserve their confidence ; to promote the encrea
jing refpc&ability of the American name ; to answer the calls of
justice ; to restore landed property to its due value; to furnilh new
refo irscs both to agriculture and commerce ; to cemcnt more
REPORT
closely the union of the States ; to add to their security againfl fo
reign attack ; to establish public order on the basis of an upright
and liberal policy. Thele are the great and invaluable ends to be
secured, by a proper and adequate provision, attheprcfent period,
for the lupport of public credit.
To this provision we are invited, not only by the general confe
derations, which have been noticed, but by others of a more par
ticular nature. It will procure to every class of the community
lome important advantages, and remove some no less important
disadvantages.
1 he advantage to the public creditors from the increased value
of that part of their property v> hich constitutes the public debt,
needs no explanation.
But there is a confcquence of this, less obvious, though not 1 ess
true, in which every other citizen isinterefted. It is a well known
fa6l, that in countries in which the national debt is properly fund
ed, and an object of ellablifhed confidence, it answers molt of the
purposes ot money. Transfers of stock or public debt are there
equivalent to payments in specie; or in other words, stock in the
principal tranfattions of bnfinefs, paiifes current as specie. The
ame thing would in all probability happen here, under the like
circumstances.
The benefits of this are various and obvious.
First. Trade is extended by it; be «. fe there is a larger capi
tal to carry it on, and the merchant can at the fame time, afford
to trade for {mailer profits ; as his stock, which, when unemploy
ed, brings him in an interest from the government, serves him al
io as money, when he has a call for it in his commercial operations.
Secondly. Agriculture andmanufaftures arealfo promoted by
it : For the like reason, that more capital can be commanded to
be employed in both ; and because the merchant, whose enter
prize in foreign trade, gives to them activity and extension, has
greater means for encerprize.
, Thirdly. The interest of money will be lowered by it ■ for
' 1,,'i 5 ,1? r wa r 3 , ratio ' to 'he quantity of money, and to the
11 1 Circulation. This cireumftance will enable both the
public a_nd individuals to borrow on easier and cheaper terms.
And from the combination of these effects, additional aids will
be turnilhed to labor, to industry, and to arts of every kind.
But these good cffefls of a public debt are only to be looked
/?///, . Cn ' bc ,', n ? wcll fundcd - " has squired an adequate and
ft le value. Till then, it has rather a contrary tendency. The
fluctuation and insecurity incident to itiu an unfunded state, rcn- :
der it a meer commodity, and a precarious one. As fu*h, beimr I
only an object ofoccafional and particular speculation, all the mo
nev applied to it is so much diverted from the more ufeful chan
c.lrcu'® t,on i for which the thingitfelf affords no fubft.tute •
',n ,a ,"< onefenous incdmenience of an unfunded debt is
that it contributes to the scarcity of money. •
th ™' S f'n l,na,on whic , h hasb little if at all attended to, is of
the greatest moment. It invtfyes a question immediately inter
this-Wh;(Hy^ rt kr h 7?.^f mn " y 5 Wh ' Ch "no other"han
• i n? n? r P debt, t>y a provision for it on true nrin
ft ""dcred a fahflitute For money ;or by
will wound 'tVs ° r y ,' ng P r ? v j dcd for such a manner
fa Wn P"«<;,plcs, and destroy confidence, it fiial) be
uttered to as it is, a pernicious drain of our ca(h from
the channels of productive industry.
The effefl, which the funding of the public debt on rirrht
principles, would have upon landed property, is one of the clr
cumflances attending such an arrangement, which has been least
ad\ertcd to, though it deserves the mot particular attention The
famhv f° f , tHdt f P/ Ci "° f P ro P c,t Y " a f'ous ca!
. : J hc v , aluc of cultivated lands, in most of the states
nas fallen since the revolution from 2* to so oer »rnf T r*
"theft south, the decrease „ ftil, Indeed ff
the representations, continually received from that quarter, mav
credited, lands there will command no price, which mav not
be deemed an almost total facrifice. y UOt
This decrease, in thevalift of lands, ought, in a great measure
orod aU " l ° the f« rc, ty °f money.—lConfequently
produces an augmentation of the monied capital of the country
must have a proportional effea in raifmg that value The benefi'
by the d moft y d 0f f fUndCd dcbt ' " thiS -V*, "» been mlnSd
tu decisive experience in Great Britain.
I he proprietors of lands would not only feel the benefit of this
mcreafe Jn the value of their property and of a
and better sale, when they had occnfion to fell ; but the neceffifv
woiw s WO |? ld be " fcl [ fireat,y dlm,n,nicd - As the fame cause
would contribute to tht facility of loans, there is reafoiT to h!
lieve, that such of them as are indebted would be ahle u
'hat resource, to fatisfy their more thro " Sh
, howev " to be cxpefted, that the advantages de
b? instant yto r ' [ r ° m fund,n S of the P"blic debts would
instantaneous. It might require some time to bring the value
of stock tons natural level, and ,o attach to it that fixed confi
dence, which is necessary to its quality as money. Yet the late
rapid rife ofthe public fecunties encourages an expefiauon that the
progress of stock to the defireable point, will be much mnr.
peditious than could have been forefeen. And as in the mrs"
time it will be encreafing in value, there is room !- TT
that it will, from the outset, answer many of the ouroof« E'
Umplat'on. Paiticularly it seems to be probable, that fromclel
ditors, who are not thcmfelves oeceflitous, it will early meet with
ready reception in payment of,debts, at its current price
Having now taken a concise of the inducements to'a oro
per provision for the public debt, the next enquiry which prelbml
itfelf is, what ought to be the nature of such a provision > Th I
requires some preliminary discussions. -Inn
It is agreed on all hands, that that part of the debt which h»
been contrasted abroad, and is denominated the foreT.' det
ought to be provided for, according to the precise term. „f !i
comrafts relating to it. The d.fcu'ffions! wlT.ch can arTe °
or t' Bt h a ' h VC k"" ClTcntia "y to'he domestic par't of ""
ted W u" C "" traaed at borne. It is to be r^ret
parl. ton t"e other.' C of sentiment on^thi;
rvlart of'T? ™ h d(hrea " for the opinions of eve
ry part of th; community, not to have observed one whirfc k,
more than once, made its appearance in the n.iKlir ' J
more than the cost to them! a"d tte iM.S T'7 n °
° f m3king S ° od to the 'Xt
borough necessity, parted with hi, property at'fo gJea't aTofs"
bv obliging him to contribute to the profit of the r,? r t
had speculated on his distresses. P C perfon ' who
The Secretary, after the most mature reflection on the c
this argument, is induced to reieft the doftrinp i* nc 'P rceof
L f ybe^/" C in a the ,hcmark «> and ffihe buyef
Every buyer therefore stands e.xaftly in the place of the&llcr- '
-332-
has the fame l ight with him to the identical sum expressed in
feeuritv, and having acquired that right, by fair purchafc and ■■
conformity to the original agreement and lutenticin of the'gov rr"
ment, his claim cannot be disputed, without manifelt injufti
That he is to be considered as a fair purchaser, results frn '
this : Whatever necessity the feller may have been under, was o "
cafioned by the government, in not making a proper
tor its debts. The buyer had no agency in it, and therefore
ought not to fuller. He is not even chargeable with having takti
an undue advantage. He paid what the commodity was worth
the market, and took the nlks of rcimburlVment upon hirrifelt
He of course gave a Mft equivalent, and ought to reap the benefit
ol hii hazard; a hazard which was far from inconliderablc aid
which, perh ps, turned on little less than a revolution in TO 'v-, !
inent. 6
That the cafe of those, who parted with their fee unties f lo
necefity, is a hard one, cannot be denied. But whatever c m
plaint ot injury, or claim of redress, they may have, refpe&s tbe
government folt ly. They have not only nothing to obinft to th
persons who relieved their neceflities, by giving them the Curie -
price of their property, but they are even under an implied con
dition t) contribute to the reimbursement of those pej sons Th
knew, that by the terms of the contra& with themfclves the pubs
licwcr; bound to to pay to those, to whom they should conveJ
their title, the lums stipulated to be paid to them ; and that
citizens of the United States, they were to bear thei'r proportion of
the contribution for that purpose. This, by the a£t of alfi mmrnr
they tacitly engage to do; and if they had an option, thev could
not, with intregity or good faith, refufe to do it, without th.
consent of those to whom they fold.
[TO BE continued.J
["' have already given a fummaryJketth of the foregoing Article lui iu
importance in a political view, its intnnfc excellence as a comLl
and the immutability of tie principles it contains, render it \, u
proper that it should form part of the contents of,his PaZW?
more especially as the SubfcriJ>crs m generalprcferve it f or bindm,
volumes.J J "'o in
PROGRESS OF MANUFACTURES.
SALE M, January 12.
A correfpondentfays, There is an evident pre
ference given by people in general to such Home"
Manufactures as have any considerable decree of
Rove • T ! ,e j Ca u ° f thC BEVE RLY CORDU
ROYS is already become very common ; and the
lale of them, indifferent parts of the State has
been much more considerable than could
been expedled, in tl.is infant stage of the manu
facture, when it cannot be supposed to have at
tained to that degree of perfection which it will
derive from longer experience. Our country
brethren, ,t is said, are determined to make use
of this manufadtuie ,n preference to European
from the consideration that theincreafe of manu'
iactures among us, will increase the demand'and
enhance the value of the produce of their lands
The lame principle of felf interest will
doubtedly induce our mechanics and laborers to
do the fame, as every branch of manufactures re
quires the aid of many other branches It is
like the hand raising food to the montli, from
which it afterwards receives strength and vigor
ADVERTISEMENT.
XTOTICE 1S hereby given to all the Creditors
of Thomas Eaton, William Pells, Ta.
bez Sayrs, Anthony Sayrs, and Gforge
\\ elch, Insolvent Debtors, now confined in the
common goal of Newark, in the county ofEfl'ex,
and State of New-Jersey, that they arerequefted
to appear on Monday the Twenty Second Day of
February next, at Nine o'Clock in the forenoon
of said day, at the Court House in Newarkafore
fiitd, before the Judges of the Inferior Court, and
/hew cause if any there be, why an affignmentof
the above Insolvent Debtor's Estates should not be
made, and they the Insolvents be discharged a
greeable to law. b
Thomas Eaton, William Pells, Jacob Sayrs,
v „ . —, Anthony Sayrs, George Welch.
Newark, 18th January, 1790. w4 t
WILLIAM TAYLOR,
Has for Sale, at his EAST-INDIA GOODS STORE,
No. 4, Burling-Slip,
Aflbrtment of EAST-INDIA GOODS.
ROntr ivA 1 " 0 "? W '" ch are thc following Articles :
BOOK Mufiins 8-4 6-4 5 - 4 || HUMHUMS,
Jackonet do. || Long Cloths,
Hankerchiefs.of various kinds,|| CalTas
_ intzes, || Seerfuckerj,
Gln ghams, || Boglapores.
A Variety of handsome painted MUSLINS.
With many other Articles, which will be fold by the Piece or
. , c . low for ca(h.
And a pair large handsome Cotton COUN-
I i-KPANES, much warmer than Blankets
January 9, 1790. r
BOSTON STAGE.
week till the > nuar y the fir( l '<> go twicer
to firft v L an thrce tlmes a wcck from firft May
Houle, in Hartford at Frederick Bull's, Coffee House
fvcn'honHi? m ,t n f al : c " o , w l ,"ga? e <i as Conductors, who have
g.ven bonds for the faithful discharge of their trull.
January, 1790. LEVI PEASE.
r , Ti' Bo J lon ' Albany, and Philadelphia Stages now tut ui
unces Tavern, Cortlandt-Street,where pajfengers will please to apply.
Published by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maiden
' aCirtheo f«vS°~M*rkst, New-York,—[34al.pr.at.]