[No. LXXX.j
THE TABLE T. No. LXXX.
<1 jVe errors are more dangerous than those which ap
pear too trifiing to be correiled,"
(Continued from the la 11 number, and concluded.)
4'T WOULD just observe concerning the man
-1 ner-of teaching arithmetic, that boys in ge
neral spend a vast ileal more time and pains to
learn that art, than is neceflary, and do not al
ways learn it, when they have done. Boys can
not learn arithmetic mechanically, as they do
writing : They mail be old enough to unde: ltand
it. If lads are put upon the study of arithmetic
before they are fourteen or fifteen years old, How
will be their progress, and imperfect their at
tainments. The mind must have formed Come
Ikill in combination, before it can be employed
in that study to profit. But boys may acquire a
fufficient knowledge in arithmetic for allthepur
pofes of common life,by applying five or fix weeks
closely to it, under a good infti uctor, and at a
proper age. Instead of this, how often do we fee
boys spend winter after winter in learning a few
of the*moft simple rules of that art, and at last
not be able to reduce a single rule to practice ?
And is it not requisite that females should have
some acquaintance with a. ithiuetic ! A venerable
old man, in grey hairs,and an aged matron, who
cannot keep their own accounts, may justly weep
over a misfortune, for which they are not ant
werable ; but an indifferent fpecftator, who knows
the worth of an education, may view with indig
nation that criminal negligence in men of inter
est, which will render "the fate of posterity not
less unfortunate.
Thus have I hinted at the principal defecftsand
inconveniencies that attend the p<efent mode of
education. lam sensible that, though all I have
said may be coiifefied, yet there is one general
objection to any alteration ; which is, that the
people cannot support more expensive schools.
But in answer to this I would observe, that if they
would venture upon the experiment, they might
support schools with the fame or less expence,
that would be much more advantageous. Eco
nomy may defeat itfelf by being carried to an
extreme. * When calculations are tooclofe, there
may be a favitig in the expenditure, but the ob
ject will not be acconiplifhed; and byattempting to
save too much,all may be loft. Men who are al w.iys
employed in small, trifling business, who pursue
an unlteady course of life ; and who, to use a fa
miliar phrase, are always creeping along l>j the
edges, will never make a head in the world, but
must always remain poor and contemptible. 1:
is just so with schools. People build an honfe,
or rather put up fo/nething that ■mill do the turn
.for the present ; they fend fifty, fivy, or seventy
children to one Inftruftor, though this is too
great a number, they own, yet, he must do as
■well as he can : Part of them have books—foine
have only pieces of a book which mujt do the turn
for the present ; and some have none'at all, but
these must do as well as they can. The children
cannot be spared, more than two or three days in
a week, to attend school, but when they do go,
they must learn as we/I as they can. A matter is
hired, who perhaps is a vagabond, and if he is
not quite so good as could he wiihed, yet he is
cheap, and people must do as well as they can
these hard times. What is all this but creeping
along by the edges ? What is it but fq'iandering
away money and making a mock of education ?
Dare, my candid readers, to ltep from the bea
ten path ofcuftom and prejudice. Erert schools
npon a different footing, and you will find them
not only more advantageous for your children,
but in the end, much cheaper for yourselves.—
ButeVen upon the fuppofirion that good schools
arc eventually more expensive than had ones, this
should not frighten people, when they reflecft t hat
a good education is the best legacy they can be
queath their children. Thousands ofperfons,
who have grown up to a state of manhood and
found they could fcarcelv read or -.vrite, have
wiflied, fervently wiihed their parents had left
them less eftateand a better education. But there
is one argument of more weight than private ad
vantages, and which ought to make parents more
solicitous to encourage schools. We inhabit a
country evidently formed for a great empire,
where civil and religious liberty have taken up
their abode, and where they will be found, as
longasthey arc found on earth. Jhe only way
topreferve these unimpaired, is to diffule know
ledge among the body of the people. Once re
duce the mass of the people to a state of ignorance
and their bondage is inevitable. We haveltrug
gled through an arduous war to defend our reli
gion and freedom, and let us be vigilant to tui
liifh posterity with the means of defending them.
We fhoukl remember at the fame time, that we
live in a late period of the world, as well as a
glorious or.e, and may we not look forward with
SATURDAY January 16, 1790.
eagerness to that 'finifhed state of society, when
the difFufion of science shall have taught men,
that there canbe no happiness but in virtue ; no
liberty but in law ?"
FROM THE INDEPENDENT GAZETTEER.
Mr. Oswald,
AT a noted inn upon the road to Reading, I
found two countrymen, who had arrived
nearly at the lame time. After warming them
selves, they began a conversation, which appear
ed to me at once incerefting and diverting. 1
therefore took the firft opportunity of putting it
in writing, as nearly in the words of the parties
as my memory could enable me. If you think i.
will either be ufeful or entertaining to your read
ers, it is at your service. A Traveller.
Andrew. Aye ! three days? Why, how could you
fprre so much time ?
Henry. I was waiting for my waggons ; and it
was such fine fun to hear the speeches, that I could
hardly get away at last.
A. Then you can tell us a great deal of what
they are doing.
H. Why as to that—l do not know very well
what they are doing; but loii'e of them make
monlhous fine speeches.
A. Well and what do they fay?
H. O ! they do pay one another off so cleverly.
A. Why Henry I suppose that you and I must
put our hands in our pockets and help to pay them
all at last. If they spend their time in paying one
another off in words, we shall be forced to pay all
hands of them in solid coin. But can't you tell
us any thing about the business they were about ?
H. Yes—the firft day I was there, they were
just finifhingalong dispute about Eleifto.s. They
had been at it all the week before.
A. What about Electors ?
H. Why, whether the people should chufe for
themselves, or find some others to chufe for them.
A. To chufe what'?
H. Why, to chufe Senators, I think they called
them.
A. And why were the people not to chufe for
themselves ?
H. Because they would not chufe right—and it
svas too much like the old Constitution—so they
Taid.
A. And who were to chufe the Senators ?
H. The people were to chufe men to chufe
them—l don't well understand it.
A. Will there be no end of distrusting the peo
pie ? Have our gentry so soon forgot where they
sprung from ? I fuppole the people will not be
trusted to get their own children, by and by.—
But h< )vv did it end ?
H. It was voted at last, that the people lhould
chufe the Senators themselves.
A. Very good—l'm glad to hear it.—What was
the next thing ?
H. Compound rations was the next.
A. Compound ration*! what's that ?
H. 1 did not quite undei stand it—but they talk
ed as if a rich man was to have a great many more
votes than a poor man—Something about reckon
ing a man's head worth twenty (hillings, and
then making compound rations of his head and
his money.
A. What! are we to be governed only by the
wealthy ?
H. Why not ? Would you have beggars and
vagabonds govern us ?
A. No, by no means ; for beggars and vaga
bonds always vote on the fide of the rjch, whe
ther they are right or wrong; io that the weal
thv will always have full as much weight as they
ought to have, without increasing the number of
their own votes. The middling class of people,
freeholders and houfeholdei s, of moderate pro
perty, fettled refulents, who live industriously
upon'their labor, are the firmed supporters of
the country. They have a firm attachment to
their country, and they are free from tliofe am
bitious, aspiring thoughts which lead a man to
seek his own aggrandizement at the expense of
his neighbours. A rich man 13 always wishing to
be richer and greater ; and he always has a rab
ble of needy dependents ready to aiiilt him. He
need not be helped to more influence.^
NOTES.
+ I believe it will be found upon a very little reflexion thai
thole are naturally molt attached to their country, who have tht
most to lose in consequence of any d.fafters which may happen to
it ■ Asthe great bodv of oaf citixens coofifts of those in middling
cirrumftances. it necessarily follows, that they mull be the luppon
of the country ; but that " they arc tree from ambitious thoughts
. uher collectively or individually, is contradiftcd by the "Per
ience of all ages ; and eipenally bv that of the State of Pennfylva
ma, otherwifea form of government which centered ail P" wer m
a purely democratic assembly, never would have been so obi. 1-
nately fuppomd—a form of government, which left nothing to
the wealthy part of the community, but what they obta '" cd ' *7
intrigue, and the influence of property. And pray have the rich
no rights 1.1 which to be secured ? That wealth which the object
[.Vubltjhed ou Wednesday and Haturduj
H. Why, truly, there feemt fometliing in this
—But how will you hinder beggars and vat-rants
from voting ? 0
A. This might be done. Suppose that nobody
was to vote till his name had been at least a
welve-month on the county tax books, and the
taxes paid. I think this matter might be managed.
H. Well! Andrew! you could always out-talk
ne ; but if you were to hear ihe orutors in tlie
Convention, yon would be quite dumbfounded.
A. And vrho are the great orators ?
H. Why there is Will'on; but thay fay he has
changed fides.
A. How so ? what fule is he of ?
H. Why, he was againlt Ele&ors, and againfh
the compound rations. \
A. Well, whether he changed fides or nor, I
find he's on the right fide. Who are the other
orators ?
H. Why, there's a tall lean gentleman—l for
get his name; but it seems to me that his th"oat
is lined with bell metal, and his tongue fteeltd
like a broad-axe—He hack'd and hew'd at Wil
lon, like any wood-chopper—But Wilson could
alk back again—and it's fine fun. There's
a heap of them—all speakers—and they talk by
the hour.
A. But you forgot to tell me what became of
the compound rations, as you call them ?
H. O ! they had not finilhed that yet. —
A. No !—and when do they expetlt to get thrrt
their business ?
H. Some time next Summer, they talk.
A. Some time next Summer ! —\V hy I thought,
when some of you were carrying petitions about,
you told the people they were to lave expences ;
that the 'Convention would fit only a fortnight
and make us a cheap government. —
H. Why;—yes;—it was—somehow so ; —but,
to fay the truth, they begin to talk that the new
government is to coil more money than the old
Dii e. A. How so!
H, I can't tell;—but they talk about Chancel
lors and Judges with salaries all over the Hate. *
Indeed neighbor Andrew 1 almost wish I had been
.juiet as you advised me, and contented myfelf as
I was.
A. Well! well! come don't be discouraged;
(ince the Convention is met, let us hope for the
best. 1 trull they will go through with what they
ire about; and if they do but give us a tolerable
Government and cure the people of the itch for
calling Conventions for altering the government
every twelvemonth, 1 ihall be contented.—Good,
ometimes comes out of evil, and, for my part, I
really wish this Convention may not rife, till they
present us with a bill of colts that fliall make us
lick of them.— **
H. Why 1 hardly think I fball carry about a
petition for a new Convention very soon again.—
Gut which way are you travelling Andrew ?
A. To Philadelphia upon the old affair.—My
Lawyer writes me word that' the Supreme Court:
fits this month, and, if I will attend, he experts
o get final judgment for me this term. And
then I expert old Nicodemus will pay me off. I
really want my money, neighbour Henry ; and if
you and some others had not befriended me, I do
not know how 1 couldhave held out so long with
out it. _ j
H. Well, Andrew—have patience !—I have bad
news for you. So many of the Judges and Law
yers are in the Convention, that the Supreme
' ourt is put off; n ,
Upon this piece of information, lionelt Andrew
a (Turned an attitude and countenance that was too
diltreffing for my feelings. As I could not re»
lieve him, I left the room.
.ftnvy of desire—and the great spring of exertion to every man,
let his situation be what it will, n a jmpk democracy, may be, and
■cnerallv is employed to the moll pernicious purposes; orelle be
ing confide-rd as a grievance, or necelfary to be affirmed by the
majority for exigences of S.aie, proves the deftruftum of its po(-
fc/ffors—f fts iuftify these observations How important and ne
. (Tarv then is the great revolution in Pennfy Ivama, by which the
Right's of every class of citizens are more clearly aftertamed and
fee u red—
" For nature ). iath left the tinßure in the blood,
• 1 All men uou/d be tyrants ij they cou d.
Poor men are always wilhing to be rich : Rich men td be rich
er ; and power is equally attractive to all, but most dangerous in
the hands oi thole who are the most ignorant.
* " Chancellors, Judges, and Salaries."—lndividual, compe
tent, and refponflble officers, are held up as a bugbear—while the
x.ences of the people for their support, bear no proportion to
these innumerable ftreann which drain the public trealury to de
fray the charges of Committees on Committees Stateofficers with
out titles, and without refponfibihty, who always keep pubc
business in a circle, and never bring any to conclusion, whiife they
have a majority to keep the public purfeopen for their emolument.
** A very laudable with! but a free people never will be eafyun
der a bad Constitution ; and Conventions are the wisest expedient
that mankind ever adopted , and nexttothe w.fdom of
t,-y difcovcred in making Conftuutions, they do the greatest hou
or to our invention and philanthropy as a people : Let people
feel the salutary influences of a good Constitution, and they wl
not think of Conventions,EUROPE.
VIENNA, November 2.
\y jl ' N the Lmperor.yefterday was attending
the 1 e Deum, an express arrived with the
news of another virftory. Lieut. General Prince
Hohenlohe, who commands in Tranfy)vania, on
the lame day of the capture of Belgrade, beat a
detachment of the enemy near Perenzeny, and 011
the morrow (Octoberß) all the Ottoman corps, of
ten thousand men, with five cannons, under the
command of the Pacha Cara Muftapha, who ap
proached ro attack. Cara Muftapha, it is said,
killed himfelf, and 1 500 of his men followed the
lpirited example. Five of the enemy's cannon,
ammunition, from 40 to jo colours, a quantity of
arms, the camp, the magazine of Vadeny, as well
as that ol Pyrgufchvl, l, a ve fallen into the hands
of our troops, who have made a conlideruble
booiy particularly of cattle. Our loft is trivial ;
but ihe Prince Hohenlohe, has received a con
tulion on his right thigh, fie declates, that at
the concluiion of the present campaign, the fig.
, aclvi "itages gained, succeeded o"ne anothei
a H ' apidl ' y which is Iloc glorious than
aitomfhing.
A R 1 S, October 14
AN officer of the National Guards died a few
days ago. His interment was ordered at
jo clock and the bearers were taking him to
the church—Some women of the neighbourhood
"who happened to be in the chu, ch m hen the body
drew near, enquired why the bell did not toll
rhey were mtoiiiied, that the friends of the
deceaicd had paid only the (mall fees, and that
it was not cultomary ,0 toll when that was the
ca e. Ihe -*oinen infilled upon tolling the bells
instantly, and made the fame ceremony be per
"lf at a ""ghbou; ing convent. They infilted
on the corple being laiu in one of the church
vaults military lionoi s were then performed
and 1 lie people dilperfed. '
NATIONAL ASatMBLY OK FRANCE.
Saturday, October 17.
The Committee of enqui, y , epoi ted their opi
nion yefteiday before the .-Ulemuly, 011 the sub
jeCt of Belaiival theyhave'not found any
thing again 11 him that amounts to the charge of
felony, and they theiefore exptelibd a will? for
his enlargement.
fur l e he Tir seemed Vtfy aVe ' fe t0 this "iea-
H " r , u "; a J 0,lt >' 7"e of opinion, that Monf.
Befanval had contributed more than any other
person to ilie tioubles in Tulv Jilt «»*•;,»
Jid M. de Rebel,, there wi for £*£
ftr jctjon ol Pans, or there was not; if there was
the author ihoulci be rigorously punilhed, if not'
to'triaL"' thac lhould brought
The Duke de Liancpurt demanded M. Befan
val s being enlarged on his parole. if fecui itv
is alked for him, added the Duke, I am myfelf
willing to entei into it.
M. de Luynts said, he had served under M
Befanval hfteen years, and that he had never
known him give out an order that did not dolto
a good Cl " " a olent man and
Another member observed, that the letter
wmteri by M Befanval to the Governor of the
Balhle which the Committee could not find, was
still to be seen at the Prefulent's of thediftridl of
St. Gervais in Paris.
It was then disputed, whether or not he ihould
be tried at theChatelet in France.
M. Mirabeau proposed adjourning the trial till
a proper tribunal was appointed for trying him
and others accused of similar crimes
The Allbmbly voted, that the Chatelet lhould
be this ti lbunal for the time being.
LONDON
Nov. j. The Welch, the Danes, and the Nor
wegians, all alfcrt, that some of their former ad
venturers difcovei ed America long before Colum
bus had found land to the westward. Whether
there may be any of their defcendents fettled on
the banks of the Miffifippi llluft a<ltllit of
great doubt, astthefhipping of the a nc ient Britons
were not equal to herring boflbs : and provided
they might even have been wafted by a continu
ance of easterly winds to the other fide of the -it
jantjc, yet there is very little probability that 'the
Ind,an tribes would Aiffer a f,nail colony to pene
tiare from ~,e sea coa.ls to the internal parts of
that Continent and there to form a settlement
1,0111 ll »l.aibance or attack ; it mull, howe-
J Cr ' be adllll tted that evident marks have been
ti aced, by which n is known, America had been
y by a people acquainted with the arts of
improved l.fe, as t races of fortifications and for
tamps have been discovered, and earthen
ware, with instruments of l,t,fbandry, dug of
the earth m different places , those peofle are
however fnppofed to have been a colony from
ancient Carthage.
Ihe Jews, who have obtained the full rights
and privileges of citizens in his Imperial majesty's
dominions, no doubt have purchased that favor
that n 6 / 7 ICo"f,der"ble1 Co " f,der " ble P ,lc e. This is the firlt time
f eo P le have been naturalized in any empire
kingdom, or state (except for the space of one
year in England) since the period of their chief
city being sacked and destroyed by Titus Vespa
sian. r
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
MR. FENNO,
following NEW YEAR'S WISH was ad
JL drefled foineyears since.on the First of Janua
ry, by a young gentlemen, to a circle of his female
ti lends : His finifhing hand might pollibly make
11 less exceptionable to the critic's eye—but as ii
is, I think he need not blu/h to own it : By pub
'"nig it, you may probably surprize him, as yot.
will gratify your constant reader, LAVINIA.
NEW YEAR'S WISH.
""PO you, my young friends, while I write,
Kind wilhcs fponianeous arise;
And docs aught my rude paftions excite,
arr hulh'd by benevolent sighs.
A Muse, in the torm of a Dove,
Hovers round and every fear ;
She bids me each talent improve
To hail you a Happy New Year !
Her mandates I chearful obey,
As her (miles I would drive to procure ;
thr '"I" that my w,flies convey,
May her favors in future fecurc ;
On you, my young friends, may Ihe smile,
That your verle may with melody flow ;
And may joy all your sorrows beguile,
Nor an hour be reserved for woe.
When Wintir (hall sternly appear,
° Nature in gloom be array'd,
W hen the Manner (fiuddcrs thro fear,
Left hi, bark (hould by winds be betray'd,
Then in fafety, well (heltcr'd from snow.
May you, putting sorrow alide,
In dfim l flic tranquility know,
All the joys of a social fire-fide.
When Spr inc i n young beau:y (hall smile,
And charm following charm (hall unfold •
In rapiure, beholding the while,
May your portion be plealures untold ;
May eat h fougrter that chii p, on the fprav,
y eachflow'ret that blows in the field,
For you be more chearful ana gay,
for you its choice fragrances yield.
When Summer (hall sultry advance,
Ann flocks from their sports (hall retire;
May each youth, who dcclims the light dance,
Your charms, and your virtues admire.
May the grape-vine form Ar hnr, Q f eaf»,
hl,e Ihe eglantine (kins them around,
And then may the frelh balmy breeze
Waft perfumes from each neighboring ground.
When Autumn his treasures (hall bring
« nen each iiuit-trer (hall bend with its load :
May your hearts ever gratefully (ing
The hand that such bit-flings beftow'd.
lhall time roll away,
Nor lhall you once with it in'hafte !
And the Year that commences to-day
hi happier (hall be than the pall.
ThC VK hCn . W ' NfEßSand S?,UN «s (hall decay,
Al , h „ Cn and Autumns are <y cr.
And Phoeiius, the Prince of the day.
Shall wake the glad fcafons no more :
to you, each forgetting fur ninth,
May beauty immortal be gHcn
May you change the faint joy, of tl,', earth,
tor traniports uncloying i D Heaven.
NEW-YORK, JANUARY ,6.
Thursday last both Houses of Congress pro
ceeded from Federal-Hall, in carriages, to the
refuUnce of THE PRESIDENT of the United-
States; The Senate at u, and the Ho use ofR E
pr.sentatives at i 2 o'clock, when The Presi
dent of the Senate, and The Speaker of the House
ot Representatives, refpecftively, presented the
following ADDRESSES, in answer to The Prefi
dent's Speech to both Houfes-and received the
Reply annexed to each.
To THE PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES.
S I Rj
K the Senate of the United States re
y turn you our thanks for your Soeerh T
l.veredto both Houses of Concefs Th, r
fion of the State of Norrh for l- ' .
ititutionof the United Sri • " a t0 the Con "
sure ; and we offer v™ ' g ' VCS USinuch P
that event which at rhp C ?"o' atu^-it ' ons on
to our U and affn / anieUn i- e adds ft, ™gth
.he * ssir ,t e mSre
the goodness of it has appeared Th' /' 0 "
tion which we have received rharTk i" 13 '
of the lait feflion have been measures
constituents as we had eaf ansfacf tory to our
difficulty of the work in h eXpC<ft from the
mem in resuming our fncourage
fentfelfionforthlpubki T S che P le '
on our part shall be Xeni ° n
our country those blessings which a andfecur e to
vidence has placed with!?/her °" S Pro "
fuaded that one of the inoft effi-rt-' eare Per
preferving peace, is to be prepared for °I
our attention shall be directed tn ,t . ar ' and
common defence, and to the a I ■ ob je<fts of
plans as shall appear the moll likXT ° f sUCh
our dependence on other countriesf„ r ° P £ eve . m
supplies. In the arrangements rn h effi ; n tial
(peiiting the eflablita™ of
be deemed indiJpenfafele, we fliall with pleasure
provide for the comfortable support ofthe officers
and loldiers with a due regard to economy
rc g ret that 'he pacific measures adopted by
government with regard to certain hostile tribes
ot Indians, have not been attended with the be
■leficial effects towards the inhabitants of our
southern and western frontiers, which we had
eaiontohope; and we lhall cheartully co-one
rate in providing the most effetfual means for their
protedion ; and if neceflary, for the punishment
of aggreflors. The uniformity of the currency
and of weights and measures, the introduction of
new and ufeful inventions from abroad, and the
-xertions of skill and genius in producing theia
it home, the facilitating the communication be
ween the distant parts of our country, by means
of the poft-ofßce and post roads, aprovifion for
.he support of the department of foreign affairs
and a uniform rule of naturalization, by which
foreigners may be admitted to the rights of chi
zens, are objects which shall receive such earlv
attention as their refpe«ftiveimportance requires
Literature and science, are eflentia] to the pre"
fervation of a free constitution ; the measures
of governmentfhould therefore be calculated 1
rtrengthen the confidence that is due to that im
portant truth. Agriculture, commerce and ma
ftr^t U h e of bas s the wea lth and
ttrength of our confederated republic, must be
K b ' e n °^ our deliberation,andlhall
be advanced by all proper means in our power
wel'all'l heingan object of great in.porance,'
we shall chearfully co-operate in all proper mea
nres for its support. Proper attention shall be
lo suc h p apers and eftimatesas you may
be pleased to lay before us. Our cares and efforts
shall be diretftea to the welfare of our country •
and we have the most perfect dependence upon
your co-operating with uson all occafTons, infuch
measures as will ensure to our fellow citizens the
blessings which they have a right toexpe<» from
3 TOHM C !fn t A'i d Cqual B ove rnment.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prc/identof the United
to n aU '' " nd of the Smati
In Senate, Ja„. llf x 79<x J
To wh.ch the President -was pleased to make the sol
/owing reply—. J
Gentlemen,
I THANK yoq for your address.and forth* «r
furances, wh.ch it contains, of attention
2lo" °" tm f ° BSC ' l " l b '
"prigL
G. WASHINGTON.
The t0 thl
S I R the United States.
° f J he . P« P le of the
tion your Speech to botf^Hr" Con*»dera
vent whichwhfle it is °^ orth C^lina ; «e
---ing good will toward f^ lmon y of 'he increaf-
Union can "f T • the ? ov ernment of the
(trench 17 ? to .g»ve additional dignity and
rafter and reliability. national cha
feffioif of the
fticuents, affords us mnrh " 710 ° Ur con
juncture when we a h encouragement at this
of legislating for f 0 e«enfiv n, ' ,g a . rduous talk:
N07h;.,„ V exten,lv e an empire.
fentatives free"' 6 the Repre
thattheir labU " PCOple J th J an the reflexion,
.ion of
preiiion, we lhall mat * Under this ira
their expectations and eXCrtion t0 realize
blessings which PrTA Ure to them those
their reach Still n ' ence , as Placed within
to promote heir nteLT the famc desire
we shall in the nr r ™h,ch then abated us,
anxioufly pur f ue ..i^/ ent £ e ® on > diligently and
to us conducive to^hat'end' 11 " 68 W^ich^h®'l appear
the fecuritv of a free an 3 '"™ 5 Wlll to
grefs of our deliberai-; to ernmeuc ; in the pro
°f objerts so worthy oTrea^ 11 lofe^ht
sr^rrArun^^'i 0 th^
and most feHous confiH and our early
without de ay to bS Weftal, P^eed
cullion wMcY'dSr^L 0 " them th . at Calm d^
We regret that the7 a c fi c n a e rr a T ,reS
filed with regard fn , arrangements pur
dians, have been tribes of In
which we had reason m en ed that fuccels
shall not hesitate rn r ex P e< S from them ;we
fures as „, a °f®?' CUr ,n father mea
might beapprehended 1 f tean ? r J effe<Ss which
ne|ociation P s P ndcd - fr ° m t,lc of thoftYour approbation of the vote of this House at
the last felfion, respeCting the provision for the
public creditors is very acceptable to us : The
proper mode of carrying that refolutiort into ef
fect, being a fubjecft in which the future charac
ter and happiness of thele States are deeply in
volved, will be among the firll to deserve our at
tention.
The prosperity of the United States is the pri
maryobjetft of all our deliberations, and we the
rilh the reflection, that every ineafure which we
may adopt for its advancement, will not only re
ceive your cheerful concurrence, but will at :he
fame time derive from your co-operation, addi
tional efficacy in ensuring to our fellow citizens
the blessings of a free,efficient, and equal govern
ment. FREDERICK A. MUHLENBERG,
Speaker of the House of Reprefeutatives.
To this Address, The President was pleaferf to make
the following reply :
Gentlemen,
I RECEIVE with pleasure the aflurances you
give me, that you will diligently and anxiously
pursue such measures as lhall appear to you con
ducive to the interests of your conttiruents; and
that an early and serious consideration will
be given to the various and weighty matters re
commended by me to your attention.
I have full confidence, that your deliberations
■will continue to be directed by an enlightened
and virtuous zeal for the happiness of our coun
try. G. WASHINGTON.
January 14.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
WEDNESDAY, JAN. 13.
Mr. Smith of the committee appointed to wait
on the Prelident of the United Stares, to know at
what time and place the House lhould wait on him
to pi efent their address, reported that '.he Prefi*
dent had appointed to-morrow at twelve o'clock,
at his own house.
Mr. Huntington, from Connecticut ; Mr. Cad
wallader, from New-Je.fey ; Mr. Heifter, from
Pennsylvania ; and Mr. Smith, from Maryland,
appeared and took their feats.
On motion,
Ordered, That so much of the standing rtileS
and orders of this house, as directs the mode of
appointing committees, be rescinded ; and that
hereafter it be a standing rule of the house, that
all committees (hall be appointed by the Speaker,
unless otherwise specially dire<fted by the house,
in which cafe they (hall be appointed by ballot,
and if upon such ballot the number required (hall
not be elected by a majority of the votes given,
the house (hall proceed to a second ballot, in
which a plurality of vores (hall prevail ; and in
cafe a greater number tlian are required to coin
pofe or complete the committee (hall have an equal
number ofvotes, the house fliall proceed to a fur
ther ballot or ballots.
The House resumed the reading of the state
ment of the fourh-weftern frontiers, and of the
Indian department, as referred to in The Presi
dent's meifage of yesterday : Whereupon,
Ordered, That the said meflageand ftareraent
be referred to a committee of five, and that Mr.
. Wadfworth, Mr. Brown, Mr. Boudinot, Mr.
, Burke, and Mr. Baldwin, be of the said commit
tee. Adjourned.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 14.
Mr. Sedgwick, from Mafiachufetts ; and Mr.
Hartley, from Pennsylvania, appeared and took
their feats.
Mr. Livermore, Mr. Ames, Mr. Lawrance, Mr.
Scott, Mr. Smith, (M.) were added to the com
mittee, to whom was referred the ilatement of the
southwestern frontiers and Indian department.
The report of the Secretary of the Treasury
was received and read, and referred to a com
mittee of the whole house, this day fortnight.
Adjourned.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 15.
Mr. Jackson, took his feat this day.
The memorial of John Cockran, Cotnmiffioner
of the Loan-Office in the State of New-York,
praying for an addition to his salary for reasons
Hated in the memorial, was read, and laid on the
table.—Also, the petition of William Montgo
mery and Co. refpediing certain inventions,which
was laid on the table.—-Also sundry reports of the
Secretary of the Department ofWar, onanum
ber of petitions and memorials referred to him
at the last felfion.
Mr. Hartley —upon a presumption that the
unfinifhed business of the lafl feflxon, was to beta
ken up in the present, in the fituationit was then
l e ft~propofed that the bill for the promoting
of science and ufeful arts, and for fecuringto au
thors and inventors the benefits of their v/ritings
and discoveries should be taken into consideration,
and to that purpose laid a motion on the table.
Mr. Smith (S. C.Jmoved that the House should
go into a committee of the whole on the Presi
dent's Speech, which motion being agreed to—
Mr. Balpwin took the chair.
Mr. Smith then read aftatement of the feve
xyl articles in the Speech which were recom-
I- _t
mended to the confutation of the House—and
moved that the committee of the whole ihould
come to a resolution to refer the fame to feletft
committees— 1 his being adopted, the committee
rofe,and the Chairman reported the resolution to
the House Oil which the House appointed com
mittees for the following purposes, viz.
Relolved, that a committee be appointed tore
port a plan to provide for the national defence,
and Mr. Gillman, Mr. P. Muhlenberg, Mr. Hei-
Iter, Mr. Matthews and Mr. Floyd, were ap
pointed.—
Resolved, that a committee be appointed, for
bringing in a bill making provision for persons
employed in the intercourse between foreign na
tions, and the United States—Mr. Sedgwick,
Mr. Huntington and Mr. Lee were appointed.—
Resolved, that a committee be appointed to
bring in a bill for the eitablilliment of a uniform
rule of naturalization—Mr. Hartley, Mr. Tuck
er and Mr. Moore were appointed
7 hat part of the Speech referring to unifor
mity in the coin, weights and measures of the
United States, was referred to the Secretary of
State. Several other parts of the Speech, respec
ting post offices, and post roads—the promoting
of science and literature, &c. it was ordered
fliould lie 011 the table—as reports were ready to
lay before the House relative to those fubjc(sls.
Mr. Goodhue moved that a committee fliould
be appointed, to divide the State of North Caro
lina into diftridts, for the purpose of collecting
the impost in that State, agreeable to the laws of
the Uniied States.
Several other motions, referring to the fame
objeJl, were introduced—but the following pro
posed by Mr. Sedgwick was adopted, viz.
Resolved, that a committee be appointed to
report a bill or bills, for making such alterations
in the laws of the United States, as may be ne
cefTary to conform the fame to the present State
of North Carolina—and Mr. Benfon, Mr. Cad
wallader and Mr. Trumbull were appointed.
Adjourned till Monday, n o'clock.
LEGISLATURE OF STATE OF NEW-YORK.
HOUSE OF ASSEMBLY.
WEDNESDAY, JANUARY 13, 1790.
A MESSAGE from His Excellency the Governor, to the General AJfem
bly of this State.
Gentlemen of the Legislature,
THE Amendments proposed to the Constitution of the United
States, and the other Communications which have been made
to me in your Recess by the Direction of Congress, will be fub
mi:ted to your Consideration with this Meflage. The Returns
required by the Resolutions accompanying these Papers, for the
Tieafury and War Departments, are already dire&ed to be made
and tranlinitted to those Offices refpe&ively.
The usual Returns from your Treasury will disclose the present
state of our Finance*, and evince the necessity of a permanent
Arrangement for the support of Government and the maintenance
of the public Credit. lam happy to observe, that manyintereft
m r Obje&s which have si nee the close of the War occupied much
of the Time of the Legislature, ire now accompli (lied, and that it
will confequentiy be in your Power to devote a greater Portion of
your Attention to this important Business.
I conceive it proper, at this Time, to remind the Legislature,
that in the Course of the present Year the Period will arrive when
by our Constitution a Cenlus of the Elettors and Inhabitants is
to be taken for apportioning the Reprefcntation to the Senate and
Affcmbly.
It is with Pleafurc I inform you, that the Survey of the waste
Lands, directed to be fold, is complt ated, and that such Progress
has been made in the running out of those allotted as a Bounty to
the Troops of this State, that rants may be vfTued to the Indivi
duals c ntitl dto them without any further actual Surveys. I flial 1
direst the Accounts of the Expences, which have accrued in those
Services, to be lodged in the Audttor'sOffice for Liquidation, and
I slater myfelf it will be found, that as great a regard to Oecono
my has been observed a the Nature of the Business, and the Ob
structions which attended the Execution of it, would permit.
With refpefl to the Measure recommended more immediately
to my Care by the con urrent Resolution of the Senate and At
kmhly in July last, it is lufficient to mention, that it has been exe
cuted without incurring any Expence to the State.
G. CLINTON.
New-York, 13th of January, 1790.
The feverai a6ts of Congress, and other communications which
accompanicd the mcllage of hisexcellencv the Governor were also
read.
Ordered, That the said meflage of his excellency the Gover
nor, and sundry matters which accompanied the fame, be com
mitted to a committee of the whole house.
Mr. Jones introduced the following resolve viz.
Resolved, if the hon. the senate Concur herein, That the trea
surer be, and is hereby directed to deliver one copy of the laws
of the state to his Excellency the Governor, one to each house of
the legislature of the United States, one to the fecretaiy of state for
the United States, two to the clerk of the senate of this stare, four
to the clerk of the house for the use of the legislature, one to the
chancellor, one to each judge of the supreme court, and one
to the judge of the court of probates, one to the secre
tary, one to the attorney general, one to the clerk of the su
preme court, one to the auditor, one to the clerk of each county
of the state for the use of their refpeftive offices, and one other
copy for the use of his own office, one to the clerk of each town,
for the use of each town, he giving his receipt, one for each judge
of the supreme court of the United States, one to the clerk of the
supervisors in each county, for the use of the supervisors Also
to Richard Varick and Samuel Jones, Efquircs, by whom the said
laws were revised and digested, each one copy ; and to each
membei of the senate and aflembly of this state one copy—and
the treasurer is hereby aire&cd, to have regard, in the distribution
of the laid laws, to the order observed in this resolution, giving
priority to those who are firft named, adopted 37 to 4.
THURSDAY, JANUARY 14.
The following meflage was received from the Senate :
Resolved, (if the hon. the Aflembly concur herein) that a joint
committee of both Houses of the Legislature be appointed to ex
amine such accounts as have been submitted by the auditor of this
state to the commiflioner appointed by the United States, for fet
ling the accounts between the United States and individual states ;
and to advise the auditor relative to the vouchers of the claims of
this state • and in cafe of such concurrence, that Mr. Philip Schuy
ler, Mr. L'Hommedieu, and Mr. Livingfton, be of the said com
mittee on the part of the Senate.
The House concurred, and appointed Mr. King, Mr. Randall,
Mr. Schoonmaker, Mr. Barker, and Mr. Giles, the committee on
their part.
The House tefolved that they would choose a Council of Ap
pointment this day at 12 o'clock.
Went into a committee on the Governor's mcfTdge ;
Mr. Watts in the chair.
It was rclolved that committees be appointed to bring in bills
in conformity to the ast of Congress ot 23d September last, ref
pedling gaols ; and that of the 7th August, refpeftinglight-houfes.
A resolution was also agreed to, appointing a committee to pre
pare and bring in a bill in conformity to the concurrent resolution
of the Legislature of the 13th of July last, rcfpe£ling Fort George
and its dependencies.
The committee then rose, the House accepted of the report,
and appointed committees accordingly.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
To the Hon. LEGISLATURE of this STATE.
A WRITER, in a late Poughkeepfie paper, on
the important subject of PUBLIC SCHOOLS,
introduces this very lingular observation, " It
" is even conjectured, fays he, that our legilla
" ture will never confentto a law, making it the
" duty of each town to support a refpedtable
lC school, for fear it would be unpopular."—Can
it be pollible that there should bu any foundation
forfuch a conjecture ! If there is—Can language
u gg e ft a more powerful motive, to induce the
Legislature to pass such a law ? Does it not in
dicate such a state of ignorance, and degradation,
as calls on all the principles of humanity, bene
volence, and patriotism, to make the moll Ipir
itedexertions, that the people maybe brought
from under the tyranny offuch ignominious sen
timents, so hostile to their best interests, in every
point of view > for that society must be in a de
plorable condition, in which it is unpopular to
propose a public regulation, that has for its ob
jeift, thedifl'ulion of knowledge, science, and vir
tue, among the people. The Deity hath not de
vised a fyHem so competent to this delign, as pub
lic schools.— ihe present enlightened Legislature
of this State, hath on many occasions adopted a
most public spirited line of conduct—and there
can be no djubt, that this important fubje<st will
be taken into confederation by them—and fuclx
effectual provision made, that the State of New-
York may in this, as Ihe does in other refpecfts,
support her pretensions to an enlightened, liber
al policy. C I V I S.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES,
Mr. Editor,
I was agreeably surprized to read in one of the Papers 16 clay*
that in the report df the Secretary of the Treasury, the Reve
nue which may He expelled from the Poll-Office is eft'mated at
100000 Dollars —this is so contrary to pall experience, that I can
not but suppose, that in addition to enhancing the rate of poftagc,
fume new arrangements are contemplated—there is one which
appears to me very effeniial, aud that is to give the Merchants and
others a greater opportunity to answer their Letters by the return
of the poll by which they are received—The practice of clofin *
the mail, the fame evening that it arrives, which in a great meal
sure deprives them of this convenience, operates againfl there
venue to Government. MERCATOR.
January 154
NEW-TURK, JANUARY 16, 1790.
FROM CORRESPONDENTS.
The public anticipations are more than realized by the commu
nications made to Congress at the commencement of the present
feflion. During the recess it appears that the Executive Depart
ments have been inceflantly employed in forming the necessary
arrangements, colle6ling information, and preparing public busi
ness, in such manner that the National Legislature has the most im
portant obje&s brought immediately before them—and there is no
doubt, but that they will proceed in the difcuflion of every fubjefi*
with all that unanimity and dispatch, which is compatible with
doingjuftice to the general interests of their constituents.
How mull the bosom of every friend to the United States ex
pand with pleasure, in contemplating the situation of our country,
as delineated in the fpcech of The President to both Houses of
Congress: What a generous confidence in the patrio(ifm of the
citizens ! And what a glow of hope, that as they have begun, so
they will continue to appreciate the bleflings of good govern
ment, under the best Conilitution ever conferred upon any of the
sons of men.
Of the Report of the Secretary of the Treasury much may be
said ; but as it will shortly belaid before the public, an anticipation
of iheir opinion, will doubtless fall below the sentiments that will
be excitcd on its appcarance.
Another correspondent informs, that a number of the fe& call
ed Shakers, having, thro the benevolence of a certain Societv„
not an hundred miles from John-Street, been indulged with the
use of their Tabernacle for a few evenings part, to hold their par
ticular meetings in, hasoccafioned those extraordinary appearances,
noises, See. which have excited so much speculation.—There is
nothing new in all this—there was a fe£fc in Persia a thousand years
ago, that beat this hollow, in writhings, contortions, groanings
and fcreechings.
BOSTON STAGE.
THE subscriber informs the public, that having contra&ed to
carry the public mail in the ftagefrom New-York to Boston„
for the year 1790 —commencing January the firft to go twice a
week till the firft of May, and three times a week from firft May
to firft November, and to employ a person to go thro* with the
mail to take Care of it. He engages that this conductor ftiall tran
fa£t all private bufmefs committed to him with fidelity at a rea
sonable Commiflion—he will carry bundles, money, newspapers,
! See. And may be seen every Wednesday and Saturday Evening
in New-York, at Fraunces Tavern, in Boston at the fubferibers
House, in Hartford at Frederick Bull's, Coffee House.
Four a&ive men are now engaged as Conductors, who have
given bonds for the faithful discharge of their trust.
LEVI PEASE,THE OBSERVER.
No. XIII.
0;:r national happiness mujl depend on the perfection
oj our union.
DIVIDE and govtrti, was the policy of Great
Britain to keep the Americans ill subjec
tion, before our emancipation fram her au
thority ; and it is now the policy of thole who
wiffy to embarrass our councils and defeat the ge
neral government. The success of this artifice
is manifeifc.from the strange conceptions of each
other, entertained by the inhabitants in the ex
tremes of the United States. before our'happy
revolution. An intercourf'e in war and policy,
has done much to remove these prejudices of ig
norance, and we findthatnn American, whether
he were born in New-Har.ipfhire or Carolina, is
a reasonable being, is capable of friendihip and
honesty, and if he be decently treated will re
turn the civility. Ignorance on this fubjedt is
now Co far removed, that when I hear any one
' difleminating prejudices againit a distant part of
the union or endeavoring to prove an irrecorr
cileable oppofltion of interests, I immediately
l'ufpeifl his heart of apolitical poison ; and that a
mifebievous againit the government,rather
than ignorance of men is his motive to asperse.
If there be any who cannot dilate their affec
tions and policy beyond our ancient colonial ju
rifdic r tions, they ought immediately to quit the
country, and feck an insular situation, where
rocks and waves may be an unchangeable boun
dary, to their brotherly love—for fucn,our parent
isle will be a happy retreat, where a charity and
national (yftein of three hundred miles in diiuen
fion will over-reach the limits of territory.
We often speak of the union—this union now
fubfiits in theory, and to make it permanent must
be in feeling and in practice—it must rife superi
or to local attachmeu:sand boundary lines,to the
interest and deligns of a party —and inuft grasp
the whole. In the policy of a nation th£ little
pailions ought to have no concern. In rhe home
bred labourer, who supposes his own diftritft to
approach near the extreme limits of human ha
bitation, we forgive the narrow apprehension
-< and its confequfcnces ; but in a lawgiver of his
country, or in any public officer, we mark the
weaknefi, and pity him as a man wliofe mind is
lels than his employment.
Gentlemen whopoflefs delegated power, ought
not to forget the particular interests of their
constituents ; but this part may be over adied—
a thousand questions of opposite interest, may
be invented by a small degree of sagacity ; to
heal a?id not aggravate the oppofltion marks a
great politician —to adopt a pervading fyitem, in
which facrifices made by any part of the union,
lhall be compenfaied by equivalent benefits, is
the work of a/kilful lawgiver. A desire of po
pularity in their own small diftritfts, with some,
proves a temptation to be very curious ill difcov
• ering local interests ; this may succeed for a time
but as the motive is not the moll honorable, must
in the end defeat the very purposes, which it was
designed to promote.
In a country of free electors, where all have
some property, there is a worthy pride on this
fubjedt; those are molt relpcifted, who unite an
economical care of the peoples' interest, with a
magnitude of mind commensurate to national pur
poses. A good subject had rather lose a few
pence annually, than to hear it said his repre
sentative is aman of litttle and felfilh views.
In the galleries of the State Legillatures, I have
often observed rhe feelings of every fpedtator,
wounded, by the riSng of a member tp give in
formation, that the measure is again]} the intercjl
of his town or county, and therefore he r?mj} oppofeit.
The influence of example is great! We have
sanguine expectations, that the magnanimity and
enlarged national views, manifefted by all the
gentleman of our general representation, in their
laftfelfion, will have a salutary effect onthefeel
ings of thnfc, who legislate for the particular
States. —When we remember that every mind
was fupcrior to territorial prepofleflions, and en.
larged as the empire to which they! give law !—
When we refiedt, how they considered themfelvcs
adting for a nation, and not for a single State ;
and that they were not known even to name
their own ancient dominions, left it should be
construed into an anti-national meaning ! When
we observe that the fpivit of conceflion brighten
ed to the very clofeof their meeting, and shone
with most dazzling luftve, on the question of a
permanent feat for government ; we are f'urprifed
by fucli superiority of human weakness ! —Such
examples must be powerful 011 the feeling of
every State ! —From this moment, a patiiotifin
not confined to little limits will inspire our State
councils ! —And every informed citizen, will con
sider hi mfelf a fubjedt not of one ; but of the
United States !—
The final adjuftmenf of a revenue system, is
a fubjedt more exposed than any other, to the in
trusion of local views and ancient prepofiefljons.
Both rulers and people mull expect to facrifice
some feelings, which were pardonable in our old
ftateof feparatiori ; but in our newfjate ofuni
oil are wholly unfit. The iiian cannot be a good
fubje<Tt, who on a proposition of public
firlt enquires within himfelf, will this work in
exclusive advantage to my own town, county, fr
ltate j with this ipirit he will be forever grum
bling at imaginary wrongs, and his brain w{ll
be diltraCted with political phantoms which have
no exiitence but in his own jealousy andfelfifhnefc.
Either break the chain of union, and let eve
ry part get what it may, in the general wreck ei
property and honor; or make the union, as real
as ic is ostensible ; and the only way for this, is
to be one in legislation, in a judiciary fyltem, in
finance, in public funds, and in the manner of
taxation and forming a national revenue. If in
this great republic, there are to be thirteen trea
sury departments ; each jealous of the other,
and armed with such hostile cunning as thefevd
ral States can produce and all of them mofljeaicifJ
of the general treasury : if every State is to have
a plan of revenue from trade and bufinels,artfullV
calculated to entrap its neighbors : If each State is
to have afeparate debt, for which they mult pro
vide, by means the most anti-national in ttieir ope
ration ; certainly ourunion cannot be perfected.
Demagogues and men of dishonest principles
but popular views, will take occasions from the
disorder to dilieininate the fteds of contention
betweefi the States—the low paifions of the peo
ple will be kept alive, and in the hour of palfion
they will lubmit to such State measures, as in t»ie
end mull rob them of prodigious property ; for
it is not polfible for the several States to provide
for our debt, info economical a manner, as it
may be done by the united power. The old me
thod of requisition oil the Sjates hath t>een found
futile in the extreme ; and for Congress in tax
ing the States, to have a motly pvocefs adapted
to the several modes of aflelling and collecting
now used in each, will keep alive of
partiality ; and prevent order, regularity, and a
similarity of decrees in the higher departments
of the treasury. Uniformity in the manner of
taxing and collecting through the whole, 1 con
(ider as a principal ltep towards the perfection of
our union ; and to be uniform, the system of the
United States, mutt overlook all local cultoms,
and Hand on its own basis—it mult adopt a Ample
process, which may be understood by every kind
of people in the union ; and such I conceive is
the proposition of a land-tax which I have here
tofore made.
There is nothing in the circumstances, either
of theeaflern, middle or southern States,, which
in the opinion of an impartial mind, ought to
mili tateagainft a plan offimilar operation through
the whole. People may have their jealousies ;
while the States were in treaty with each other,
it was neceflary to bear with them ; now we are
one people, have a right to the fame treatment,
and all jealousy ought to be done away.
FROM THE PROVIDENCE GAZETTE.
THE NEW YEAR.
THE commencement of a new year, it is hoped,
will be marked by a new aera in the policy of
this State. The fefiion of our Legislature, which
takes place on the second Monday of January
inlt. is anxiously waited for. The eyes of Eu
rope, as well as America, are upon us : and that
we may, at such an interesting crisis, walk wor
thy of our vocation, is the ardent wifli of every
friend to this and the United States. Bv adopt
ing the government of the Union, farmers, mer
chants, and citizens of every description, would
soon experience a pleasing reverse of circum
stances; wealth would flow in upon us from eve
ry quarter, and the bane of a community, the
Truck-Trade (which extreme necelfity compel
led us to adopt) become totally extin«ft.
FffeClual Remedy Jor the Bite of a Mad Dog.
THERE is nothing, perhaps, so much to be
dreaded as the bite of a mad dog : for the
poison is so very infectious and penetrating, that
it takes efFert thro the clothes, without fetching
blood ; by the breath of the animal drawn into
the lungs ; by a touch of the tootli if recent ;
and applying it to the lips or tongue, when it
has been long dried ; by handling the wound, or
instrument, which was the death of the animal;
or by handling things which have been infected
by any of the former means.
To prevent the fatal consequences that too
often attend these accidents, the following (which
is the famous Ealt-India Specific) is recommended
to be given in a glass of brandy :
Take native cinnabar, and factitious cinnabar,
of each 24 grains, musk 16 grains, make it into a
powder, and give it one dole, as ic was given in
the following cafe :
A poor man was bit by a mad dog, and after
using divers medicines, was invaded withaftrong
hydiophobia, and being confined in Greenwich
was treated with the above medicine as follows :
His teeth being forced asunder with a knife, he
took one dose : three hours after the' hydropho
bious symptoms were abated, he fwfillowed a se
cond dose, which by next morning almost reco
vered him ; he took a third dose in a fortnight,
a fourth in a month after, and never felt any
more of the hydropliobious symptoms.
FROM THE AMERICAN EAGLE.
PiiUiJliedat Salem, by Mr. Thomas C. Cuskinc.
BY late intelligence from India weleam, that
the French have ceded Pondicherry, on the
coalt of Coromandel, to Tippoo Saib refervino
the right, for a limited time, of keeping a small
number of troops in the citadel, for the protec
tion of such fliips as may touch there before this
celiion is generally known. Transports were gone
to biing Gen. Conway, (the French Generalifii
mo in India) and the troops to the Isle of France
Tippoo had destroyed the strong fortrefs of
Manguelor, on the Malabar coast. flie Engliili
pjflelled themselves of this commanding fitqatiou
he last war ; but Tippoo, determined that they
should never more take advantage of it, detach
ed a large body of troops to destroy it, and attend
ed himfelf in person to fee that it was effectual
ly done. It was blown up and overturned to its
very foundations, exhibiting afcene of ruins like
ihe effects of a violent convulsion of nature.
The policy of this warlike and ferocious Prince
appears to be, to gain Indoftan entirely to him
felf, and to destroy all intercourse between its
inhabitants and Europeans For this purpofr,
lie has ordered every pepper-flirun to be rooted
up, in his dominions, and every object of com
merce to be destroyed.
Tippoo's numerous troops are under the most
excellent discipline : theEnglifh byfighting them,
and the French by aidingthem, have taught them
the European art of war. A great number of
Gen. Matthews's army, who were captured last
war, and other Europeans, are now in his pay.
It is said, the probable confequenceof the mea
sures of Tippoo and the French will be, the en
tire expulsion of the English from the peninsula
of Indoftan ; when, pursuing his plan of policy,
Tippoo will turn about, and drive off the French
also. ,
If to remove usurpers, and to obtain the entire
government of Indoftan, for the fakeof establish
ing a beneficial commerce with the reft of the
world, appeared to be the objects of Tippoo, we
might perhaps be juftified in wifhinghim success:
but we fear he is actuated only by revenue, and
an ambition to govern by military law—"hat he
means to prevent a friendly intercourse between
his subjects and the inhabitants of the other parts
of the globe ; and to wage a general war against
the arts of peace, which have had so happy an in
fluence upon mankind.
WILLIAM TAYLOR,
Has for Sale, at his EAST-INDIA GOODS STORE,
No. 4, Burlinc-Slip,
Aflorttnent of EAST-INDIA GOODS,
Among which* are the following Articles:
BOOK Muslins 8-4 6-4 5-4 || HUMHUMS,
Jackonet do. j| Long Cloths,
Hankerchiefs,of various kinds,|| CalT,i«,
Chintzes, jj Seersuckers,
Ginghams, |j Boglaporrs.
A Variety of handsome painted MUSLINS.
With many other Articles, which will be fold by the Piece or
Package, low for cash.
And a few pair large liandfonie Cotton COUN
TERPANES, much warmer than Blankets.
January 9, 1790/ t. f.
PROPOSAL,
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
M E MO I R S
BLOOMSGROVE FAMILY.
In a SERIES of LETTERS from a gentleman in New-England
to arefpeftable citizen of Philadelphia.
CONTAINING
Sentiments on a MODE of DOMESTIC EDUCATION," suited
to the present state of Society, Government and Manners in the
United States, and on the Importance and Dignity of the Female
Character.
INTERSPERSED WITH A
VARIETY of interesting ANECDOTES.
CONDITIONS.
They will be printed on a good paper and type —neatly bound
and lettered, in two volumes, i2mo. and delivered to Jubfcribers
at three quarters rf a dollar per volume.
r , These Memoirs are dedicated to Mrj. Washington,
ler ptrmiffion. Having fcen the manuscripts, and approved the phn y
" She heartily wishes that every laudable effort to improve the
I '■ mode of education in this country may be attended with merit-
I " ed success."
FROM the literary chara&er of the reputed author ot
the above work, and a tableof contents left with the printer here
of, being eighty-three letters on the moll interesting fubje&s of
education, life and manners, it i? expe&ed these Memoirs will
prove a very valuable and interesting performance.
Subfcriptiovs received by the Editor, at his office, and letters (pojt
Paid) duly attended tp.
THE Gazette oj the United States circulates in every part of
the Union—being honored bx fuhfcribers in Georgia, South and Nortk
Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, Pennfslvania, Nezv-JerJiy,
New-York*, Connecticut, Rhode-Island, Majfachujetts, New-Hampfjiire,
Dijlriil of Maine, Canada, Europe, the H r efl Indies. This ex
tenfwe circulation renders it a proper vehicle for Advertisements
ofa general, commercial and governmental import:—ity the particular
aefire and advice, therefore, of a number of its patrons, this paper
will be open for the reception of advertisements of the above dejeription ;
which as they will convey intelligence of aninteiefling nature, the Edi
tor hopes then mfertion will meet the approbation of his friends in,
general. Should the number at any time amount to more than a page in
the Gazette, thcx will he given in a Supplement. JOHN FEN NOs i
Publiflied by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maiden-
La.nj, near Ihe OJwego-Mtrket, New-York.—[3 iol.pr.tui.]