[No. LXXXIV.]
THE TABLET,
No. LXXXIV.
(Continued from the last Number.)
k Every Jituation in life has pleasures and pains
peculiar to it ft If; but the mojt unfailing fountain of
happiness it open alike to all men."
THE happiest man I ever knew was a person
who every day of his life formed delu
sive expectations, and never once succeeded in
a plan he undertook. To miscarry in a most ma
terial point of business made flight impressions
on him, because his anticipations were always
awake, and his mind was more habituated to in
dulge new profpedts, than to repine at past mif
fortunes. His neighbors viewed him with a mix
ture of ridicule and pity. Such bitter difappoint
xnents, they supposed must make him unhappy,
and such unreasonable hopes could not but expose
him to derision. In lhort his misfortunes produced
complaint from every body but himfelf, and he
was miserable in every eltimation but his own.
From this run of remarks 1 would infer that we
are too apt to exaggerate imaginary evils, and to
iuppofe people more unhappy in many refpe<fts,
that they really are.
It is a question that deserves enquiry, whether
•we generally anticipate more pleasure from any
objedt than it affords when we poflefs it ? The
common opinion of mankind is, that the imagi
nation overa:es approaching scenes of gratifica
tion. We should not two hastily adopt such an
opinion. The reverse more usually happens, and
we derive more happiness from gratifying our
■wiflies than was expected. People form their
ideas on this fubjetf;, by examining their feelings
when the enjoyment is over ; and comparing the
sensations of satiety with the impulses of hope,
they give the preference to the latter. But the
fact is, the enjoyments of the scene itfelf was
more delightful than either.
We Ihould make a diftindiion between the plea
sures of sense and those of the imagination. The
f ratification of natural appetites never affords left
elight than we anticipate. A man pinched with
hunger or cold,does not exaggerate, in his imagi
nation, the pleasure he derives in being relieved
from his distress. A traveller, performing a
journey in rough, tempestuous weather, conl'oles
himfelf with the profpeifl of meeting at night
with a commodious inn, where he will find a warm
room and comfortable refrefhment. He mitigates
no doubt the tedious hours of the day, in looking
forward to the pleasing scenes. of the evening ;
but I appeal to his fellow traveller, whether his
fpirirs are not more brisk, when he is enjoying
those comforts, than while he was anticipating
them.
Artificial sources of pleasure, however may of
ten prove delusive. Men 'who flatter themselves
that a superb house, elegant gardens, a carriage
and livery servants will add eflentially to their
happiness, are under the influence of a mistake.
•Their anticipations are too lively, and the object
when they attain it, will not yield the delight
that was imagined. There is no reason in nature,
why a person fliould feel any exquisite fatisfaiftion
in riding in a chariot to church ; and gratificati
ons of this kind soon lose their relish.
Providence has so managed the causes that con
tribute to happiness, that all clailes of people
may attain a proportion. Torelieve thewantsand
gratify the desires which nature has formed, af
ford more genuine and universal fatisfatftion
than can well be created by the allurements of
caprice and fancy. The appearance of the fun,
when it has been, several days, hidden in the
clouds, has afforded more real delight to the
human race, than all the elegance and splendor
that artifice can devise. Refrefhing showers after
the earth has long been parched with drought has
yielded more pleasing sensations, than can be en
joyed by all the gratifications that wealth can
purchase or power command.
Mankind should not indulge a temper of com
plaint. Happiness is dealt out in more equal
portions, ancL depends more on causes within our
reach, than is commonly supposed. It cannot be
material, whether imaginary objetfs of pleasure
are greatest in anticipation orin poflefiion. What
ever delight they afford is so much clear gain.
We ihould make the most of our situation, and
not repine becaufeit is not different.
fOR THE GAZE 1 IE OF THE UNITED STATES.
THE REPUBLICAN
EVERY society of men must be restrained by
foiue coercive regulations ; and every form
of government must be founded on certain gene
ral maxims. According to the celebrated Montef-
No.—ll.
SATURDAY January 30, 1790.
quieu, Fear is the spring of action in a Despotic
form ; Honour in a Monarchy, and Virtue in a
Republic. This is a plausible theory; but like
many others, though beautiful on paper, it is ut
terly fallacious in practice. Human nature is so
felfifh and corrupt, that the legislator who depends
on virtue alone for the support of a Republican
system, builds upon a foundation of sand. More
permanent and operative principles are necella
ry. The common participation of all denomina
tions of citizens in the honours, emoluments and
burthens of society; as equal a diltribution of pro
perty, as the abilities and exertions of individu
als will permit j and above all a general diffufion
of knowledge among the body of the people, are
main pillars in the edifice of a lasting republic.
A people well inftrudled in their rights, are ne
ceflarily furnifhed with the means of ipreferving
them. Their liberties cannot be taken from them,
without the absurd supposition of their own con
sent, which would be a kind of political suicide.
Mankind have been too long governed or rather
enslaved by means of their hopes, their fears and
other paflions. But we have reason to be thank
ful that experience has effected a happy change
of measures. In this enlightened age and coun
try the laws begin, as they ought, to be address
ed to the sober reason of the /übjeils. To fit them
for such a rational government, every ufeful
branch ,of knowledge should be encouraged by
our federal and (late legislatures. The President's
recommendation of thisfubje<ft, in his late official
speech toCongrels, is worthy of that great friend
to the rights of mankind. He urges a legislative
patronage of education with his usual candour
and discernment. His reasons appear to be alto
gether fatisfa&ory; and I trust will meet with
the concurrence of both houses of Congress, as
well as the hearty approbation of the public. As
the Prefidont did not think proper to descend to
particulars, they are left to the good sense of the
senators and representatives. To encourage lite
rature, without interfering so far as to controul
and {hackle it, would be an undertaking becom
ing our national rulers. With deference I would
suggest the propriety of founding a federal pro
feflorfliip of hiflory, government and jurifprudtnce
in each of the universities of the United States.
The profeflors might be appointed either by the
President of the Uniied States, or by thetruflees
of the refpe<ftive univerfuies, as should be judged
most proper. Their le&ures might explain the
general rights and liberties of men ; the history
of ancient and modern times, especially of our
own country, and more particularly the grand
American revolution, including the rife anapro
grefs of the various political establishments in the
several states and the general confederacy. As
the pupils annually retire from the universities,
mix with the mass qf citizens, and many of them
engage in the inftru«ftion of subordinate fcliools
or other ufeful employments, they will carry their
knowledge with them into life, and diffufe it far
and wide among all ranks of people. And thus
the whole community will receive a salutary in
fluence from such institutions. Surely the salaries
which would be neceflary to engage competent
profeflors, would be money expended to the ad
vantage of the public.
EXTRACT,
From Governor Hancock's speech to the Legislature
of the State of Majfachufetts. January 19, 1790-
IT would be very extraordinary if we, as a
nation, should remain exempted from those
foreign or domestic troubles, with which other
nations aie frequently visited. Notwithstanding
a general Government is well established by the
free consent of the people, v/e are to continue to
support our own government,with unabating anx
iety for its welfare and prosperity : Indeed,
the general Government of the United States is
founded in an aflemblage of Republican Govern
ments ; and it depends eflentially on these, not
only for its dignity and energy, but for its very
exillencein the form it now poflefles ; therefore,
whatever is done to support the Commonwealth,
has a tendency to advance the interest and honor
of all the States. Hence we are called upon in
an especial manner, to maintain an equal and re
gular fyltein of revenue and taxation, to support
the faith, and to perform the engagements of
our Republick ; to arm and cause our Militia to
be disciplined according to the mode which fliall
be provided by Congress ; and to fee that they are
officered with men, who are capable of making
the greatest progress in the art military, and
who delight in the freedom and happiness of their
country. A well regulated and disciplined Mi
litia, is at all times a good obje<ftion to the in
troduction of that bane of all free governments
—a Handing Army.
Abates.
[Pn'olijhed Wedr.cfday ami Saturday .j
CONGRESS
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES
WEDNESDAY, JAN. 27, 1790,
r I ""HE order of the day for the consideration of
the bill for giving effect jto the laws of the
United States in the date of North-Carolina, was
taKen up, and the bill palled to be enacted.
The bill sot- theremiffion or mitigation of fines,
forfeitures and penalties in certain cases, was read
the fecoud time. Ordered, that it. be referred
to a committee of the whole house, to be taken
into consideration on Wednesday next, and that
too copies be printed.
In committee of the whole, on the bill to pro
vide the means of intercourle between the Unit
ed States and foreign nations ; the motion before
the committee yesterday, for striking out of Mr.
Lee's proposed amendment, the words, " by and
with the advice and consent of the senate," was
again read.
Mr. Jackson objected to the principle of the
bill, as tending to eftabliili arbitrary power—as
diverting the senate of their prerogative—as re
linquilhing the controul of the Ho'ufe over the
Treasury of the United Statesi Besides, he con
tended that it is the duty of the House to fix the
salaries, and this he conceived the legislature fol
ly competent toi The disposal of the public mo
ney is a trust committed to us, nor can we conlti
tutionally divest ourselves of it.
Mr. Boudinot was opposed to the amendment,
and in favor of striking out the words, and con
tended that the bill went to make all those pro*
visions as fully as the nature of the cafe would
permit, which gentlemen appeared so earnestly
to contend for.
The bill empowers the Prefiaent to draw out
of the public treasury a fpecified sum, it has also
determined a point beyond which the salaries shall
not extend; all the power proposed to be veiled
in the President, is to reduce the salaries, and to
dispose of the appropriation to the best advantage.
This cannot be considered an extraordinary or
unconstitutional trull; it is agreeable to the uni
form usage of the House in making appropria
tions where any trust is reposed. It is easy to
forefee infnperable difficulties in aflociating the
feiiate with the Prefiderit in this bufinefe.
Mr. Scott asked whether the queflion was of a
legislative or executive nature—for his part he
thought it of a legislative nature ; and therefore
granting any power to appropriate the publii mo
ney for purposes where the house could not ascer
tain the quantum neceflaiy, was adting contrary
to the constitution. It was improper he said that
either the President or senate, or both, should ex
pend money for any services, the amount of
which could not be fixed by law. He was there
fore wholly opposed to the principle of the bill,
and moved that the committee should rife, for
the purpose of introducing a motion in the house
to re-commit it.
Mr. Sedgwick observed that if a discretionary
power cannot be lodged with any person to de
termine what sums fliall be paid for particular
ferviccs, it is difficult to conceive how the public
business can be carried on. He was sure he said,
there was nothing in the Constitution against the
delegation of such a power—and in fadt constant
experience was directly opposed to the position.
Mr. Smith (S. C.) pursuing the idea of Mr.
Sedgwick adverted to the circumstance of voting
20,000 dollars the last session for the Indian bufi
nefs —it is true the coinpenfations of the Coni
milioners was fixed—but their allowance, absorb
ed but a small proportion of the fuin committed
in trull tothe President and Senate of the United
States.
Mr. Lawrance opposed the motion for the com
mittee's riling—he wished the committee to come
to a decision of the question, whether the Senate
should be aflociated with the President in this
business or not—he adverted to the constant
pracftice of the House in refpecfl to the heads of
'departments, who from the necessity of the cafe
are constantly trusted with appropriations which
it is true they may not exceed, but without par
ticularly fpecifying the sums they shall pay for
certain services.—He wished the gentleman would
withdraw his motion.
Mr. Boudinot was likewise opposed to thetifing
of the committee, and enlarged upon the ideas
suggested by Mr. Lawrance, and Mr Smith.
Mr. Scott defended his motion, —he said that
services performed in the public offices are known
and open to examination; but that might not be
the cafe with the present business ; that as the bill
stands it militates against the constitution ; that
consideration would influence him not to with
draw his motion for the riling of the committeesThe motion for the committee's rlffiigwas ne
gatived.
The motion for striking out of the proposed
amendment the words " by and with the advjct
and conlent of the senate," was put and c:i -^ j d
in the affirmative.
The question then v.-as, on the propose.l unend
irienf wjriioac the vvoi Js ,'byand wirh rfte advice
s»iui of the fenate/' the vote - l jrtng taken
the amendment was not adopred.
Mr. Lavvrance propoled an additional claufefor
limitting the duration of the bill to the term of
three years, and from thence to the end of the
next fellion of Congress thereafter.
It was moved that the clause which enjoins that
the accounts of expenditures be rendered un
der oath, should be struck out.
Mr. Sedgwick was in favor of retaining the
•words ;—there could no injury arise from their
being retained in the bill ; they may conduce to
the public fatisfaiftion.—ln the disposition of pub
lic monies, cases will frequently occur in which
a confidence in the integrity of public of
ficers, may be all the fatisfad:ion the people may
receive in the disposal of their money. It is not
to be expetfted that the formality of an oath is
to be attended to, the idea meant to be convey
ed is that the accounts are rendered under the
imprelfion of such a solemnity.
Mr. Huntington, Mr. Wadfworth and Mr.
Ames were severally in favor of the motion for
striking out the words.—lt was observed that
they involved an absurdity, except gentlemen
supposed it neceflary that the President should
take his oath of office de novo.
The words refpedling the oath were struck out.
A motion of Mr. Madison's, that the President
cause a regular statement of the account of ex
penditures to be laid before Congress, occasioned
some further conversation—This motion was a
dopted.
The whole paragraph as thus amended, was
then agreed to.
The motion' for the limitation of the bill was
next difcufled—lt was moved that three be struck
out before " years" and two inserted—This mo
tion obtained.
The clause thus amended was adopted
The committee then rose reported the bill with
amendments—to which the House acceded—and
ordered that the bill be engrofled for a third read
ing to-morrow.
Mr. Lee called the attention of the House to
the petition of Mr.Dobbyn—and after fomeobfer
vations on the policy of encouraging the emigra
tion of foreigners, and the population of the un
appropriated territory of the United States,mov
ed that the petition of Mr. Dobbyn be referred
to the Secretary of the Treasury—that he may
make provision in the plan which he is directed
to report to the House, for cases similar to that
of the petitioner—Mr. Madison and Mr. Page
supported this motion.
Mr. Sherman moved that the latter part of the
motion should be (truck out, and that if the pe
tition is referred to the Secretary of the Treasu
ry, it fliould be by way of information.
It was said that there is an impropriety in re
straining the Secretary to any particular obje<ft,
in forming the plan in contemplation, as it must
be calculated on general principles, the House
having special referrence to the fubjedl of reve
nue in committing the business to him—lt was
further said that the propriety of the Legislature
of the United States holding out encouragement
to individuals of foreign States, to emigrate to
this country may be doubted.
Mr. Sherman's motion was adopted, and the
petition referred to the Secretary of tlieTreafu
ry for his information.
Mr. Sherman presented a petition from the
President and Fellows of Yale College, ltating
that they had imported a pliilofophical apparatus
for that College, the impost duties of which they
had paid ; and suggested to Congress whether, as
books and I'cientific instruments for the ufeof se
minaries of learning could not come under the
denomination of negociable articles of merchan
dize, it would not tend to encourage science,
were such articles exempted from duties, and
praying that the amount of the duties paid on
i'aid apparatus, may be remitted for the use of
said college.
Mr. Ames presented the petition of John Wait,
praying relief under lofles sustained by taking
certificates for supplies from soldiers who after
wards deserted—Read and laid on the table.
The House took up the resolution laid on the
table yesterday by Mr. Smith (S. C.) refpefting
the unfinifhed business at the end of afeffion.
Some debate ensued, but the House adjourned
without coining to any decision on the motion.
our last, Mr Hartley's obfcrvation on Adjourn
ments and Prorogations, was miftated : His ideas are exprefred in
the following, viz. " After fpeakingV>f a former motion he
had ottered upon this fubjeft—He made a aiftinftion between
« Prorogation and Adjournment in England : The firft was the
<{ ast of the fir ft Magistrate, the King, and all unfinifhed business
" wai difinilTed by it. But on the last, which was fomc times the
" concurrent aftof the several branches of the Legiflatuie, at other
" times the ast of one or both Houses of Parliament, the business
<c is preserved in the fume Rate it was left, and need not be taken
t: up d-*novo."
THURSDAY, JANUARY 23,
The bill for making compensation to persons
employed in the intercourse between the United
States and foreign nations, was brought in, en-
grolled, and read the third time.
Mr. Sherman moved, that the bill Ihould lie on
the table. He thought the sum of forty thousand
dollars too much for the purposes fpecified in the
bill, and that the house had no measure atprefent
whereby they could ascertain the funis necefiary
to be appropriated.
This morion was carried in the affirmative,
This being the day alfigned by the house for
taking up the Report of the Secretary of the Trea
sury relative to a provision for the support of the
public credit—Mr. Ames introduced the buiinefs
by faying, that he apprehended, fufficient time
had not yet been allowed for the members to pre
pare themselves for the difcuflion of a fubjed: of
such intricacy and magnitude—he therefore mo
ved that the order of the day be postponed to next
Monday week.
Mr. Jacnfon —This report, Sir, refers to mat
ters of the highest importance, which ought not
to be hastily taken up.—There appears tote two
great objects in view—One of them is to destroy
all idea of diferiinination between the original
creditors, and the speculators in lecurities—the
other is to make a general provision for the State
debts. I was formerly in the fame opinion with
the Secretary refpe<fiing the firft—but I am now
almost a convert to a contrary opinion ; and this
in consequence of the speculations I have seen
carried on since the report made its appearance,
which are now so extended as would make even
a Hastings blufli.—Since the publication of thi»
report three veflels have failed from this place
for the southward with large sums in specie, to
purchase up the public securities of the States of
North Carolina, South Carolina and Georgia.—
With refpedt to the consolidation of the State
debts, some of the States may be against it—at
least I think it neccfl'ary that we fliould know the
fen:iments of the State Legislatures, as well as
those of the individual citizens on the fubjedl.
Without this information we ihall be going on in
the dark—and as this information cannot be gain
ed by Monday week, wefhallthen be as much in
the dark as at present. I therefore wish that the
consideration of the business may be put off to
the firft of May, by which time there is a probabi
lity of our obtaining some degree of information.
Mr.. Boudinot acknowledged that a great num
ber of speculators were injurious to the communi
ty. But the objetft of the report is to leflen the
number, by appreciating and fixing the value of
the public debt; therefore the sooner that is ac
complished, the belter. He was not for defering
it to a distant day.
Mr. Stone said the business was entirely new,
and that the success of it would much depend up
on unanimity. He confefledhe wanted to know
the opinion of the continent upon it. If it would
bring money, he said, in to the treasury, helhould
be for adopting it immediately ; but as he did
not expert that, he should be for poltponing it
for some time.
Mr. Sherman made some observations on the
debts of the Stales, and of the United States—as
for colleifling the opinions of the people at large,
there would probably be, he said, as many opini
ons as persons. He wifned to take up the matter
as speedily as polfible.
Mr. Hartley was against poltponing.
Mr. Sedgwick said, that foine delay was necef
faryfor understanding the fubjedt properly. Bui
to prevent speculation and a corruption of mo
rals, he wiflied to enter upon it speedily.
Mr. Gerry said he was in favor of a postpone
ment, tho not for so long a time as the gentleman
from Georgia proposed—but as the fubjedt was of
such magnitude, and all the States now in the
Union were so deeply iiiterefted, he supposed it
bed to wait for the North Carolina delegation.
With refpedt to preventing speculations in the
funds, it cannot be supposed, said he, that taking
up the bufinefsat the present moment will conduce
to that object—and if it would I cannot fee what
advantage would accrue to the public Ido not
conceive that in the funds ought to
be considered in an unfavorable point of
While the country has a debt.it will be speculated
in—l believe there never was a country which had
a debt, in which speculations did not obtain and
indeed they are so far from being injurious, that
they prove a great convenience—by giving a cur
rency to property which would otherwise lay
dormant.—No debts in fliort can be contracted
but upon terms that inuft prove ruinous to the
debtors, except on a principle of negociation— In
this view it may be faid,that the evils which would
have been derived from the great debt of this
country, have been in a great measure alleviated.
He then adverted to the speculations of foreign
ers—and, referring to the debt of Great Britain,
said that in the last war the Dutch were supposed
to be proprietors in the English funds, to the a
mount of forty millions sterling— this was not
considered as a difad vantage, on the other bandit
wasluppofed tobeagreat fourceof emolument to
the nation and at the moment of peace, the enor
[—334-]
mous debt of the nation, which had encreafedan
hundred million—was one cause of the grearett
influx of specie th*t had ever been known. He
concluded his observations by wilhing the consi
deration of the report might be postponed till the
reprefentationfrom North Carolina Ihould arrive.
Mr. Jackson in support of the motion forpoft
ponement, enlarged fully on the pernicious con
sequences of the speculation in the public secu
rities and traced those consequences through
a variety of channels, he pathetically defcnb
ed the situation of the officers and l'oldiers
of the late army, who had been obliged through
necessity to part with the crtificates fora tri
fling consideration. —He lamented the specu
lations that had taken place in consequence of the
promulgation of the Secretary's plan, & regretted
that Congress was not nowfituated on the Sufque
hanna or Potomack, where the deliberations on
the fubjedl might have been kept secret, as he
thought that the evils of speculation owed their
rife in a great measure from Congress' holding
their feflionsin a populous city—He thought that
Congress should suspend all consideration of an
afl'umptionof the State debts, jfill the fenfeofthe
several Legislatures on the fubjeiA was known—
and at any rate he hoped that Congress would at
present confine their deliberations to that part
of the debt called final fettlementsorthedoineftic
debt of the United States.—He concluded by
moving that the consideration of the report of the
Secretary of the Treasury be postponed to April.
Mr. Boudinot reprobated the idea of a post
ponement to so distant a day. He touched on the
fubjetft of speculation, and said, that it might be
carried too far, and it might be confined to too
narrow limits—but with refpedt to the idea at
large, it was impossible to prevent it—that the on
ly way to restrain, or bring within proper
bounds this spirit, is for Congress to come
to some determination refpedling the debt, by
whichmeans it will acquire a permanency. The
House by their resolution the last session have so
lemnly pledged themselves to pay earlj attention
to the bufineil, and to do foinething for the pub
lic creditors.
Mr. Page was for taking upthe business imme
diately, and reminded the lioufe of that part of
the President's speech which related to public
credit. As for secrecy with regard to the report
he had no idea of it. He was for openness and
decision. He said, that if so distant a day ihould
be fixed on, he Ihould move that the house ad
journ,and the members go home. It is anillafive
idea to think of deferring it—we are bound to
begin the business immediately. Would the gen
man from Georgia consult his constituents upon
every bill that is about to be pafled
Mr. Seney moved that the consideration of the
report should be poftponedto the firft Monday in
March. The fubje<ft, said he, is of great mag
nitude—it requires time to make up a judgment
upon it—The Legislature may derive informa
tion from the difculfion it may receive inconver
verfation, and in the public prints—The gentle
man's idea of an adjournment appears quite uu
neceflary—there is a great variety of business be
fore the house, to employ their attention—mean
time the public expectation will fufFer no disap
pointment, as the business will be in train agree
able to the resolution of the House thelaft feifion,
on which the report of the Secretary of the Trea
sury is founded—Nor do I conceive that any time
will be loft, as the members will be more fully
prepared to meet the business.
Thequeftion was now put on the firft Monday
in March, and loft.
Monday week, was then proposed, which was
carried.
A message from the President of the United
States by his Secretary, communicating the a<ft of
Rhode lfland for calling a convention—also a let
ter from the Governor of that State to the Presi
dent, refpedling a further suspension of the col
lection adt, &c.
These papers were refered to a committee con
sisting of Mr. Benfon, Mr. Brown, and Mr. Cole.
Mr. Burke from the committee appointed,
brought in a bill for securing to authors and pro
prietors, the exclulive right to their writings.
Mr. Burke also presented to the house a motion,
that it be an inftrucftion to the committee appoint
ed to bring in a bill for encouraging manufac«
tures, to add a clause refpediing the securing t«
inventors, the right to their discoveries.
This was agreed to.
Mr. Smith's motion which was under considera
tion yesterday was resumed.
Some observations were made relative to its be
ing a joint business of both Houses.—Mr. Smith,
agreeable to this suggestion proposed that the re
solution should be amended so as to comprize this
idea.
Mr. Livermore objected to tlie resolution in its
present form,he conceived that a ftridl adherence
to any such rule could not be maintained, as a
great variery of matters must neceflarily be con*
tinned from one fefiion to another, he instanced
petitions, and business referred to special com
mittees, which might require a whole recess for
ics consideration.—He adverted to the practice of
Congress, and of other legislative bodies-^wliiclihe thought was defenfible.—On the 21ft. of Sept.
last, the present Congress palled a resolution, by
virtue of which the Secretary of the Treasury,
had laid before the House, a plan pursuant to that
vote—if fucli a rule as that now proposed, had
existed—the House could not take that report in
to conlideration ; but we have taken it up agree
able to customary usage.—He concluded by ob
serving that if arulemuft be adopted, the one
proposed is not competent to thedefign,butmuft
be enlarged and proper exceptions made.
Mr. White proposed that proper exceptions
might be made—but contended there is a necessi
ty for adopting some rule.
Mr. Hartley laid that as the House could not be
supposed to be prepared to make the neceflary ex
ceptions, he moved that the resolution ffiould lie
on the table.
Mr. Sedgwick seconded the motion, which be
ingput, it was carried in the affirmative.
Mr. White moved that a committee be appoint
ed to enquire into the measures taken by Congress
in the State of Virginia, refpetfting the lands re
served for the use of the officers and soldiers of
the said Stale on Continental and State establish
ments, in the cession made by the laid State to
the United States, of the territory north-weft of
the river Ohio, and to report the fame to this
House,
Mr. White, Mr. Muhlenberg and Mr. Seney,
•were appointed.
The report of the Secretary at War, on the pe
tition of Capt. Charles Markley, was taken into
consideration.
This report states that he was entitled to half
pay for life, agreeable to the time of his leav
ing the public service, but that there are two re
solves of Congress which appear to contravene his
claim.
It was moved that the House should accept this
report.
This motion was opposed, as it would be infor
mal to accept fpecifkally, the report of an execu
tive officer. Such reports are considered as mat
ter of information to the House, on which they
are to ground a subsequent a (ft or resolution.
Mr. Gerry observed that it appeared to him
from the Secretary's report, that this officer is
entitled to his half pay. He therefore moved
that the report should be accepted ; and that the
House fhould\~ome to a resolution, that the two
resolves of Congress referred to in the report do
not apply to the cafe of the petitioner.
The resolves were then read.
Mr. Sedgwick suggested the propriety of ap
pointing a committee to report a system for ascer
taining the claims of individuals against the Uni
ted States, and of the United States against in
dividuals. He proposed that this committee
iliould consist of ten members. The adoption of
such a system might save a great deal of time and
public expence.
Some observations were made on this proposi
tion. It was then ordered that the report of the
Secretary at War should lie on the table.
Adjourned,
FRIDAY, JANUARY 29.
The Speaker laid before the House a letter
from the Treasurer of the United States, enclo
sing accounts of expenditures and disbursements,
pursuant to orders of Congress, to the 31ft Dec.
last, which weie read, and referred to a feletfl
committee, confuting of Mr. Smith, (S. C.) Mr.
Moore, Mr. Smith, (M.) Mr. Clymer, and Mr.
Van Ranfellaer.
A mefl'age from the Senate was received by their
Secretary, informing the House that the Senate
has palled a bill for the punifhmept of certain
crimes against the United States—in which they
request the concurrence of the House.—He then
delivered in the bill and withdrew.
Mr. Gerry presented a petition of Aaron Put
nam of Medford in the State of Maflachufetts
stating that he had invented a mode of distilling
spirits, which is different from any that had come
to his knowledge, and he presumed is entirely
new; and praying that the benefit of his disco
very may be secured to hiin—Referred to the com
mittee appointed to bring in abill forfecuring to
inventors the right of their discoveries.
A memorial of Roger Alden, was read and re
ferred to a committee consisting of Mr. Trum
bull, Mr. Baldwin, and Mr. Benfon.
On motion of Mr. Thatcher the petition from
the inhabitants of the town of Portland was read
a second time, and referred to the Secretary of
the Treasury for his information, who is directed
to report thereon to the House.
The bill brought down from the Senate was
read.
Mr. Liverniore moved that a committee be ap
pointed to bring in a bill for the appropriation
of such sum or funis of money as may be neceflary
for the civil lift, and the incidental charges of the
present year.
This motion was adopted, and Mr. Livermore,
Mr. Sylvester and Mr. Lee, were appointed.
Mr. Sedgwick, after some introdu«si:ory obser
vations relative to the power of Congrels to regu
late the exports of the United States, proposed
the following resolution, viz.
uJ liat u a „ C ° m,mttee be appointed to bring in a
bill or bills to encourage the exports of tin-Uni
ted States, and to guard against frauds in the
lame. Laid on the table.
Mi. Smith, (S. C.) introduced a resolution to
this purport, that the Judges of the Supreme
Court be directed to report to the House a plan
tor regulating the procefles in the Federal Courts,
and the fees to the Clerks of the fame.
Laid on the table.
A motion to take up for a third reading the bill
providing the means of intercourse between the
United States and foreign nations, was after a
short difcuflion negatived.
1 lie House then adjourned till Monday r 1
o'Clock A. M.
NEW-YORK, JANUARY 30,
What is every body's business is no body's
business"—And where every body is worthy of
blame, guilt can be affixed to no body.—The ex
igencies of our country gave rife to the expedi
ent of paper money—When that had done its of
fice, it pafled away, by mutual consent, like the
baseless fabric of a vision.—Not so the exigencies
of our country ; they were too substantial.— A
second expedient became neceflary—it was adopt
ed in a new species of paper—But this would
have been jlill-born, had the animating principles
of ncgociation and hope of future payment been
wanting—nor would all the paper of the United
States have purchased the folder a bilket, had not
a dependence on the country called into circula
tion the specie of the Speculators.
Hence the firj] speculators in public securities,
who were generally monied men, must be consider
ed as the props of the infant credit of the United
States—as they undoubtedly were decided friends
to the revolution, who embarked their all on
the ifl'ue of the contest. Common Sense.
Extratt of a letter from Boflon, Jan. 16
" I never expected that the domeflic debt of
the United States would be funded at a higher
interest than four per cent, nor could I suppose
that in making provision for the debts contracted
during the late war, and which are the price of
thegreateft and the happiest revolution that ever
marked the page of history, the debts of the se
veral States would be placed in a less favorable
situation, than that commonly denominated the
continental debt—but this will certainly be the
cafe, if the great sources of revenue are diverted
into a channel from whence the debts of the se
veral states are to derive no advantage. It is to
the general government that the state creditors
mull now look, as to their only resource—and
surely their claims are as well founded, as those
of any description of creditors whatever.
I am sensible that many persons have entertain
ed hopes of receiving fix per cent, interest, on
their securities, and this is particularly the idea
of those, who are clamorous for a discrimination
between the original holders and those who have
bought public paper. These persons fay that go
vernment cannot consistently pay them a less inter
est than that exprefled on the face of the promise;
but at the fame time, they can very clearly disco
ver the justice of a violation of the fame promise,
exprefled in the fame terms, which happens to be
in the hands of some of their neighbors !! Self
love strangely blinds people to their own interest
—for it is very evident that a violation of the pub
lic faith in one instance, would afl'uredly lead to
a violation in the other.
I have said above, that 4 per cent is the highest
at which I ever expecfted that government would
fund the debt. My reasons are many, but wav
ing particulars I (hall mention only two. First,
This sum is about the average of the general ex
pectation of the creditors; and as the Congress
of the United States have proposed to lay the foun
dation of the government in justice, they will
invariably conflder in all their deliberations) that
two partiet perfeHly equal, exist in all public con
trails—and therefore they will undoubtedly pay
attention to the general fentiment—butfecondly,
I consider 4 per cent, within compass of the abil
ity of the United States. The creditors very well
know that it will be in vain to exped: an interest
beyond this ability—and tho 4 per cent, will be
less than the original stipulation, yet realizing
this diminished rate, will induce a moll cordial
reliance on a future indemnification for a tempor
ary loss."
The question whether the feat of the Honora
ble Jonathan Jackson in the Senate of Massachu
setts, is vacated by his fedeial appointment as
Marshal of that diftri<ft, was determined in the
negative by the Senators of that State, the 2ill
inffant.
Extratt of a letter from Long-lflani to the Editor,
hereof.
" I am exceedingly gratified with the Boston
plan of Education with which you have lately
favoured us. Nothing can more radically pro
mote the bell interests of society than luch atten
tions from a united public. The efforts of a thou
sand individuals to inculcate ufeful knowledge,
may probably be lels productive, than the labours
C—335-]
of a very few in this compacted system. It will
contribute greatly to the convcniency of tuition
and much more to its success. The principal ad
vantages will spring from the foundation—the
tmciplme and the manners of the children which
can scarcely fail to be established by such arrange
ments ; these are of the utmost confequei.ee, tho
too generally neglected. The system does not
ltnke me as perfect ; it will undoubtedly admk
of conhderable improvements ; but, were there
much more room for these, 1 should think the a
dopcion of such a system f ar preferable to that
chance medley of education which continues to
be borne with, almost throughout the continent—
and Ido 1110 ft heartily wish t o fee such wife ex
amples followed, wherever some plan of the kind
has not already been adopted."
Lad Thursday arrived in this City from North-Carolina the
Hon. Samuel Johnston, Senator of the United States from
that Republic.
Hon. Benjamin Hawkins, the other Senator arrived some
days lince.
advertisement.
JwTc ".f'. 0 " &<"»">/Mejrs Smith and Bradford, No
so, Wall Street, will be dtJj>ofed of, at publicJale, on Friday Evening
the 0) tcbruary, a large and very valuable ajjortment of BOOKS—
"W' n g of liiflory, Divinity, Law, Thyjic, Poetiy, Novels, Mfcellmy,
Wc. Catalogues ail! be delivered a few days previous to the fate.
New-York, Jan. 1790.
notification.
A LI. perrons who have not accounted for the expenditures of
■I X public money and stores, received from Hugh Hlchks,ei
ther in the capacity of Commissary of Military Stores, AlTiftant and
Deputy Quarter Mailer General to the army of the United Stares
or Deputy Quarter Mailer for the State of New-York, &c or De
puty Quarter Mafler to the Eastern and Main Army,are requested,
by the: said Hughes, to exhibit their accounts and vouchers, pro
perly stated, asearly as poflible, to the auditor of the Treafui v of
the United States, in the city of New-York, that a final settlement
oi the famcmav be made.
The Executors, or Administrators, to the estates of any of the
pcrfons nrft mentioned, will be pleased to attend to this notification.
N. B The Printers in the (liferent States in the Union, nil/render
an eJJentialjervice to the public by inserting this in their newftafers.
WAR-OFFICE OF THE UNITED STATES.
TNFORMATION is hereby given to all the In
-1 valid Pensioners of the United States, residing
within the States refpetftively, that one moiety of
their aunual pension, commencing on the fifth
day of March last, will be paid at the places and
by the persons herein after mentioned, on the
fifth day of March ensuing, and that the second
moiety of the said annual pension will be paid at
the fame places and by the fame persons, on the
fifth day of J une ensuing. *
The States }
Places,
New-Hampfliire, Portsmouth,
MalTachufetts, Boston,
Rhode-Island, Providcnce,
Conne&icut, New-London,
New-York, New-York,
New-Jersey, Perth-Amboy,
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia,
Delaware, Wilmington,
Maryland, Baltimore,
Virginia, B. Hundred,
North-Carolina, HilHbo rough,
South-Carolina, Charlrfton,
Georgia, Savannah,
January the 28th, 1790.
By order of the Prefdent of the Unit id States.
H. KNOX,
Secretary for the Department of War.
IN order to prevent unfuccefsful applications,
the following information is re publifhed,refpect
ing the vouchers which will be required.
" THE returns which have been or shall be made to the
Secretary tor the Department of War by the several States of the
pensions which have been granted, and paid by them refpcftively
will together with the vouchers herein required, be cor.fidered as
the evidence whereon the payments are to be made.
Every application for payment mull be accompanied by the
following vouchers.
id. The certificate given by the state fpecifying that the person
polfeffing it, 15 in fact an invalid, and ascertaining the sum to which
as such he is annually entitled,
2dly. An affidavit agreeably to the following form : to wit
A. B. came before me one of the Tuftices for the county of
m the state of and made oath that he is the fame A. B.
to whom the original certificate in his pofleflion was given, of
which the following is a copy (the certificate given by the state to
be recited.)
That he served in (regiment or vessel) at the time he
was disabled, and that he now resides in the and county
°f and has redded there for the last years pre
vious to which he resided in
In cafe an Invalid should apply for payment by an attorney, the
said attorney mull, befidesthe certificate and oath before recited,
produce afpecial letter of attorney agreeable to the following form]
I A. B. of county of state of do here
by constitute and appoint C. D. of my lawful attorney
to receive in my behalf of (the firft or (econd moiety] of
my annual pension, as an Invalid of the United States, from the
fourth day of March, One thousand seven hundred and eightv-nine.
In testimony whereof I have hereunto set my
hand and seal, this
Signed and sealed
in the presence of
Acknowledged before me
Applications of executors or administrators must be accompani
ed with legal evidence of their rrfpe&ive offices, and alfoof the
time the Invalid died, whose pension they may claim.
By Command of the President of the United Stales of America,
H. KNOX,
Secretary for the Department of War,
War-Office, Oflober 13. 1789.
Printers throughout the United States are requejied to in
sert the above information, for the benefit of the unfortunate invalids, rvht\
havefufferedftvcrely in the cause of their country.
and persons by whom the pen-
Jions will be paid.
Joseph Whipple.
Benjamin Lincoln.
Jeremiah Olney.
Jedidiah Huntington.
John Lamb.
John Halfted.
Sharp Delany.
George Bufli.
Otho H. Williams,
William Heth,
John Haywood.
George Abbott Hall.
John Habcrfham.H.EPORT
Of the SECRETARY of the T R E ASU R Y to the
HOUSE of REPRESENTATIVES.
Treasury Department, Jan. g, 1790.
[continuation.]
BUT though many of the original holders fold from neceflity,
it does not follow, that this was the cafe with all of them. It
may well be supposed, that some of them did it either through
want of confidence in an eventual provision, or from the allure
ments ot some profitable (peculation. How shall these different
clafles be discriminated from each other ? How (hall it be ascer
tained, in any cafe, that the money, which the original holder
obtained for his security, was not more beneficial to him, than if
he had held it to the present time, to avail himfelf ot the provision
which lhall be made? How shall it be known, whether it the
purchaser had employed his money in some other way, he would
not be in a better situation, than by having applied it in the pur
chase of fecuritics,though hefliould now receive their full amount ?
And if neither of these things can be known, how lhall it be de
termined whether a discrimination, independent of the breach of
ccntraft, would not do a real injury to purchasers ; and il it in
cluded a compensation to the primitive proprietors, would not
give them an advantage,to which they had no equitable prctenfion.
It may well be imagined, »lfo, that there are not wanting in
stances, in v.' I ,ich individuals, urged by ajrefent neceflity, parted
with the securities received by them from the public, and shortly
after replaced them with others, as an indemnity for their firft
loss. Shall they be deprived of the indemnity which they have
endeavored to secure by so provident an arrangement ?
Questions of this fort, on a close infpeftion, multiply them
selves without end, and demonstrate the iujufticeof adifcrimina
tion, even on the most subtle calculations ot equity) abftra&ed
from the obligation of contract.
The difficulties too of regulating the details of a plan for that
purpose, which would have even the femblanceof equity, would
be found immense. It may well be doubted whether they would
not be insurmountable, and replete with such absurd, as well as
inequitable consequences, as to disgust even the proposers of the
measure. .
As a fpecimrn of its capricious operation, it will be fufficicnt
So notice the effect it would have upon two petfons, who may be
supposed two years ago to have purchased, each, securities at three
lhillings in the pDund, and one of them to retain those boughtby
him, till the discrimination should take place ; the other to have
parted with those boughtby him, within a month pift, at nine
shillings. The former, who had had most confidence in the go
vernment, would in this cafe only receive at the rate of three shil
lings and the interest ; while the latter, who had had less confi
dence would receive for what cos him the fame money at the rate of
nine (hillings, and his representative, Jtanding in his place, would
be entitled to a like rate.
The impolicy of a discrimination results from two confidera
lions ; one, that it proceeds upon a principle deftruftive of that
dunlih of the public debt, or the (lock of the nation, which is
essential to its capacity for answering the purposes of money—that
is thefecurity of transfer ; the other, that as well on this account,
as because it includes a breach of faith, it renders property in the
funds less valuable ; consequently induces lenders to demand a
higher premium for what they lend, and produces every other in
convenience of a bad state of public credit.
It will be perceived at firft fight, that the transferable quality
of stock is essential to its operation as money, and that this de
pends on the idea of complete fccurity to the transferree, and a
firm persuasion, that no diftinftion can in any circumstances be
made between him and the original proprietor.
The precedent of an invasion of this fundamental principle,
would of courfetend to deprive the community of an advantage,
with which no temporary saving could bear the lead comparison.
And it will as readily be perceived, that the fame cause would
Operate a diminution of the value of (lock in the hands of the firft,
as well as every other holder. The price, which any man, who
should incline to purchase, would be willing to give for it, would
be in a compound ratio to the immediate profit it afforded, and
to the chance of the continuance of his profit. If there was sup
posed to be any hazaid of the latter, the risk would be taken into
the calculation, and either there would be no purchase at all, or
it would be at a proportionably less price.
For this dimiuution of the value of stock, every person, who
should be about to lend to the government, would demand a com
pensation ; and would add to the ailual difference, between the
nominal and the market value, an equivalent for the chance of
greater decrease ; which, in a precarious state of public credit, is
always to betaken into the account.
Every compcnfation of this fort, it is evident, would be an
absolute loss to the government.
In the preceding discussion of the impolicy of adifcrimination,
the injurious ten dcncy of it to those, who continue to be the hold
ers of the securities, they received from the government, has
been explained. Nothing need be added, on this head, except
that this is an additional and interesting light, in which the injus
tice of the measure may be seen. It would not only divest pre
(ent proprietors by purchase, of the rights they had acquired un
der the fanftion of public faith, but it would depreciate the pro
perty of the remaining original holders.
It is equally unneceflary to add any thing to what has been al
ready said to demonstrate the fatal influence, which the principle
of discrimination would have on the public credit.
But there is still a point in view in which it will appear per
haps even more exceptionable, than in either of the former. It
would be repugnant to an express provision of the constitution of
the United States. This provision is, that " all debts contrasted
and engagements entered into before the adoption of that Consti
tution shall be as valid against the United Statcsunder it, as under
the Confederation," which amounts to a constitutional ratifica
tion of the contrasts refpe&ing the debt, in the state in which
they existed under the confederation. And resorting to that stand
ard, there can be no doubt, that the rights of assignees and origi
nal holders, must be considered as equal.
In exploding thus fully the principle of discrimination, the
Secretary is happy in reflecting, that he is only the advocate of
what has been already fanftioned by the formal and express au
thority of the government of the Union, in these emphatic terms—
" The remaining class of creditors (fay Congress in their circular
addrefsto the States, ofthe 26thof April,l7B3) is compofcd, partly
of such of our fellow citizens as originally lent to the public the use
of their funds, or partly of those, whose property has been either
advanced or afTumcd for the public fcrvice. To iifcrimmate the
merits of these several descriptions of creditors, would be a talk
equally unnecessary and inviduous. If the voice of humanity
plead more loudly in favor of some than of others, the voice of
policy, no less than of justice, pleads in favorof all. A wise
nation will never permit those who relieve the wants of their
country, or who rely mojl on its faith, itsfrmnefs, and its rcfources,
when either of them is distrusted, to fufferby the event."
The Secretary, concluding that a discrimination, between the
different clafles of creditors of the United States, cannot with
propriety be made, proceeds to examine whether a difference
ou"ht to be permitted to remain between them, and another de
fciiptionof public creditors—Those of the States individually.
The Secretarv, after mature reflection on this point, entertains a
full convifiion, that an alfumption of the debts of the particular
States by the Union, and a like provision for them, as for those
of the Union, will be a measure of found policy and substantial
justice.
It would, in the opinion of the Secretary, contribute, in ane
minent degree, to an orderly, ftabk and fitisia&oiy arrangement
of tie national finances
[—336—]
Admitting,3s ought to be the cafe,that a provision must I be rtad;
in some way or other for the entire debt ;it will foillo ,
greater revenues will be required, whether tha pro
made wholly by the United States, or partly by them, and par
ly by the States separately.
The principal question then must be, whether fnch a provision
cannot be more conveniently and effcftually made by one genera
plan issuing from one authority, than by different plans ortgina
tine in different authorities. .
In the firft place there can be no competition for resources ;
the lad, there must be such a competition. The consequences o
this, without the greatest caution on both fides, might be inter
fering regulations, and thence collision and confufion. ™ tlcula
branches of industry might also be oppressed by it. Ihe mol
productive obiefts of revenue are not numerous. Either then
must be wholly engrossed by one fide, which might leflen the et
ficacy of the provisions by the other : or both must have recourh
to the fame obiefts in different modes, which might occahon ar
accumulation upon them, beyond what they could properl)
bear. If this (hould not happen, the caution requisite to avoidinj
it, would prevent the revenue's deriving the full beneht ot eac
obieft. The danger of interference and of excess wou.d be apt t<
impole restraints very unfriendly to the complete comman o
those resources, which are the most convenient: and to compel th
having recourse to others, less eligible in themselves, and Icls a
greeable to the community.
The difficulty of an effefiual command of the public relouices
in cafe of separate provisions for the debt, may be seen in anothe
and perhaps more striking light. It would naturally happen tla
different States, from local considerations, would in some lnitancc:
have recourse to different objects, in others, to the fame object*, 11
different degrees, for procuring the funds of which they stood n
need. It is easy to conceive how this diversity would afreet tni
aggregate revenue of the country. By the supposition, article
which yielded a full supply in some states, would yield nothing
or an inefficient product, in others. And hence the public re
venue would not derive the full benefit of those articles, ' r ° ,n '' at<
regulations. Neither could the deficiencies be made good by tholi
of the union. It is a provision of the national constitution, tha
" all duties, imposts and excises, (hall be uniform throughout tlv
U.iited States." And as the general government would be undc
a neceflity from motives of policy, of paying regard to the duty
which may have been previously imposed upon any artic.e, thnug!
but in a single state, it would be constrained, either to refiati
wholly from any further imposition, upon such article, where i
had been already rated as hi b h as was proper, or to confine ltfel
to the difference between the existing rate, and what the articli
would reasonably bear. Thus the pre-occupancy oi an article b)
i Tingle state, would tend to arrest or abridge the impositions ol
the union on that article. And as it isfuppoteablc, that a great va
riety of articles might be placed in this situation, by diflimilar ar
rangements of the particular states, it is evident, that the aggregate
revenue of the country would be likely to be very materially con
rafted by the plan of separate provisions.
If all the public creditors receive their dues from one source
liftributed with an equal hand, their interest will be the fame
\nd having the fame intercfts, they -will unite in the support ol
he fifcal arrangements of the government : As these, too, can b(
nade with more convenience, where there is no competition •
These circumstances combined will insure to the revenue laws i
nore ready and more fatisfattory execution.
It on the contrary there arc aiftintt provisions, there will be
lillintt interests, drawing different ways. That union and con
crt of views, among the creditors, which in every government i;
>f great imporr.ance to their security, and to that of public credit,
vill not only not exist, but will be likely to give place to mutual
jealoufs and oppohtion And from this cause, the operation 01
he systems which may be adopted, both by the particular States
nd by the Union, with relation to their relpedlive debts, will be
n danger of being counteracted.
There are several reafont, which render it probable, that the fi
liation of the state creditors would be worle, than that ot the ere
litors of the Union, if there be not a national alTumption of the
It ate debts. Of these it will be fuflicient to mention two ; one,
hat a principal branch of revenue is exclusively veiled in the Uni
m ; the otiier, that a state must always be checked in the impofi
ion of taxes on articles of consumption, froin the want of power
o extend the fame regulation to the other States, and from the ten
lency of partial duties to injure its industry and commerce. Should
lie state creditors stand upon a less < ligiblefooting than the others,
t is unnatural to expett they would lee with pleasure a provifior
or them. The influence which their diflatisfa&ion might have
ould not but operate injuriously, both for the creditors, and the
redit, of the United States.
Hcnce it is even the interest of the creditors of the Union, thai
hose <>l the individual States should be comprehended in a general
>rovifion. Any attempt to secure to the former either exclusive
>r peculiar advantages, would materially hazard their intercfts.
Neither would it be iuft, that one class of the public creditors
hould be more favored than the other. The objects for which
>oth descriptions of the debt were contratted, are in the main the
a me. Indeed a great part of the particular debts ot the States has
risen from aflfumptions by them on account of the Union. And
t is most equitable, that there Ihould be the fame measure of re
ribution for all.
There is an obje£lion, however, to an alTumption of the state
lebts, which deserves particular notice. It may be supposed, that
t would increase the difficulty of an equitable settlement between
hem and the United States.
The principles of that settlement, whenever they shall be dif
:u{fcd, will require all the moderation and wisdom of the govern
nent. In the opinion of the Secretary, that difcuflion, till further
ights are obtained, would be premature.
All therefore which he would now think advifeable on the
>oint in question, would be, that the amount of the debts assumed
nd provided for, Ihould be charged to the refpc&ive states, to
bide an eventual arrangement. This, the United States, as aflign
s to the creditors, would have an indisputable right to do.
But as it might be a fatisfa&ion to the House to have before them
ume plan for the liquidation of accounts between the union and
ts members, which, including the alTumption of the state debts,
vould consist with equity : The Secretary will lubmit in this place
uch thoughts on the fubjeft, as have occured to his own mind, or
teen suggested to him, most compatible, in his judgment, with
he end proposed.
Let each state be charged with all the money advanced to it out
>f thetreafury of the United States, liquidated according to the
pecic value, at the time of e ch advance, with interest at fix per
ent.
Let it also be charged with the amount, in specie value, of all its
securities which Qiall be a (Turned, with the interest upon them to
the time, when interest (hall become payable by the United States.
Let it be credited for all monies paid and articles furnilhed to
the United States, and for all other expenditures during the war,
either towards general or particular defence, whether authorized,
or unauthorized by the United States ; the whole liquidated to
Ipecie value, and bearing an interest of fix per cent, from the sever
al times at which the several payments, advances and expenditures
accrued.
And let all sums of continental money now in the treasuries of
the refpe&ive states, which shall be paid into the treasury of the
United States, be credited at specie value.
Upon a statement of the accounts according to these principles,
there can be little doubt, that balances would appear in favor of
all the States, against the United States,
To equalize the contributions of the states, let each be then char
ged with its proportion of the aggregate of those balances, accord
ing to some equitable ratio, to be devised for that purpose.
If the contributions (hould be found difproportionate v tke result
of this sdjmlmtnt would be, that fame states would be creditor},
some debtors to the union.
Should this be the cafe, as it will be attended with lets incon.
venience for the United States, to have to pay balances to, than to
receive them from the particular states, it may perhaps, beprafti
cable to effect the form r by a second process, in the nature of a
transfer of the amount of the debts of debtor states, to the credit of
creditor states, observing the ratio by which the firft apportion
ment (hall have been made. This, whilst it would destroy the
balances due from the former, would incrcafe those due to th
latter. These to be provided for by the United States, at a rea
sonable interest, but not to be transferable.
The expediency of this fecoud process must depend on aknow.
ledge of the result of the firft. If the inequalities should be too
(treat, the arrangement may be impracticable, without unduly m
creafing the debt of the United States. But it is not likely, that
this would be the cafe. It is also to be remarked, that though
this fccond process might not, upon the principle of apportion
ment, bring the thing to the print aimed at, yet it may approach
so nearly to it, as to avoid essentially the .mbarraflment, of hav
ing considerable balances to collect from any of the states.
, The whole of this arrangement to be under the fupenntcndence
of commissioners, vetted with equitable discretion, and 'final ai>
The operation of the plan it exemplified in the Ichtdule A.
SPECULATION.
Says Joe to Jem, this speculation,
Will prove the ruin of the nation.
Gods ! that these fellows thus (hould thrive,
When you and I can scarcely live.
Says Jem to Joe, this speculation,
Has fav'd the credit of the nation ;
For when fate ftop'd the new emiflion,
Their cajh prefcrv'd us from perdition.
ANECDOTE.
SOON after the commencement of the peace,
the Matter of an American veflel, in London,
fell in company with some lharpers, who urged
him very much to join them in drinking a bottle
or two of porter. He, not aware of their policy,
consented to go to a public house ; where, after
they had all drank very freely, they dropt ofF,
one by one, till at last the Yankee was left quite
alone. The innkeeper coming in,fays to him,—
" What! are youleft alone !"—" Yes," replied
the other. The innkeeper observed to him, that
he iuppofed he was not much acquainted with
" our English blades." " 1 am not," replied
the American. " Well," laid the innkeeper, "the
reckoning falls on you."—" Does it !" replied
the other, affecting surprize, and clapping his
hand into his pocket as if to pay it—but,paufing,
he fays, "Well, if this be the cafe, give me ano
ther bottle before I go." The innkeeper stepped
out to get it. In the mean time the American
wrote upon the table—" I leave you American
Handles for your English Blades"—and
walked off in his turn.
THE REPORT of the SECRETARY of the
TREASURY,to the House of Reprefentativel, relative to a
provision for the support of the Public Credit of the United Stales,
in conformity to a resolution of the twenty-firft of Sept. 1789.
Publiftied by authority.
Printed if Francis Childs, and John Swaini—and fold at
their Office, No. igo, Water-Street; fold also by Berry and Roger;,
New-York, Jan. 1790. «
WILLIAM TAYLOR,
Has for Sale, at his EAST-INDIA GOODS STORE,
No. 4, Burling-Slif,
A General Aflortment of EAST-INDIA GOODS,
Among which are the following Articles :
BOOK Mufliiu 8.4 6-4 5-4 |l HUMHUMS,
Jackonet do. j| Long Cloths,
Hankerchiefs,of various kinds,|| Caffas,
Chintzes, j Seersuckers,
Gingham:, ([ Boglapores.
A Variety of handsome painted MUSLINS.
With many other Articles, which will be fold by the Piece W
Package, low for calh.
And a few pair large handsome Cotton COUN
TERPANES, much warmer than Blankets.
January 9, 1790. '•
BOSTON STAGE.
THE fubferiber informs the public, that having contra&cd to
carry the public mail in the ftagefrom New-York to Boston,
for the year 1790 —commencing January the full to go twice a
week till the firft of May, and three times a week from firft M a y
to firft. November, and to employ a person to go thro' with th«
mail to take Care of it. He engages that this covdufior ihall tran
fa£l all private business committed to him with fidelity at a rea
sonable Commission—he will carry bundles, money, newfpapeis,
&c. And may be seen every Wednesday and Saturday Evening
in New-York, at Fraunces Tavern, in Boston at the fubferibers
Houfc, in Hartford at Frederick Bull's, Coffee House.
Four attive men are now engaged as Conduttors, who have
given bonds for the faithful discharge of their trust.
January, 1790. LEVI PEASE.
The Bojlon, Albany, and Philadelphia Stages now put up at
Fraunces * Tavern, Cor tlandt-Street,where pajfengers will pleajetoappl^y.
ADVERTISEMENT.
(f3T THE Gazette of the United States circulates in every part of
the Union—being honored by fubferibers in Georgia, South and North
Carolina, Virginia, Maryland, Delaware, Pennsylvania, New-Jcrfey*
New-York, Connecticut, Rhode-lfland, Majjachufctts, New-Hampfhirti
and Dijlrih of Maine, Canada, Europe, ana the Wefl Indies. This e<-
tenjive circulation renders it a proper vehicle for Advertisement!
oj a general, commercial and governmental import'. —By the particular
aefire and advice, therefore, of a number of its patrons, this paper
will be open for the reception of advertisements of the above description;
which as they will convey intelligence of an interelling nature, the Edi
tor hopes their insertion will meet the approbation of hisfriends in
general. Should the number at any time amount to more than a P a ßf* a
the Gazette, they will be given in a Supplement. JOHN FENNO.
Published by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maiden-
La me, nvtvtht Ofwege-Markti, Nkw-Yorr.—[3 p r < an I
This day puHiJhed,