[No. LXXXII.j
THE TABLET
No. LXXXII.
" The importance of female education is evident
from the influence that women have over the manners
'of civilized society."
IT may perhaps gratify the reader to be in
formed that the following Eflay is fuppo
fedto be the pr'>duc r tion of a female pen. The
editor received it without a signature, or any re
marks that lead him to conjecture who is the au
thor. As the hand writing appears to be that of
a woman, and as the sentiments are sprightly and
delicate, he imagines it is a favor from a fair cor
respondent.
For the TABLET
defedts and failings in the conduct
A of mankind, both with regard tothem
felves and others, are so numerous, and conceal
ed in such a manner, by affectation, andafpecious
appearance of virtue, that it is difficult to repre
sent, or even to discover them all in their true
light. There are manyinftances of mif-conducl
in people, the bad effecfts of which are too flagrant
to escape the notice of the most careless and in
attentive ; yet there are errors little attend
ed to by mankind, or at least, are so far dis
regarded, as to be censured by few. Among
instances of this kind, the neglect of female
education may perhaps be juflly ranked, a
fault, which tho common is by no means to be
juftified. This negledt arises not so much from a
want of inclination, or genius in tliisfex, as from
the negligence of those who have the care of their
instruCtion; who inaybefo fat biafled by a wrdng
judgment, and the common consent of mankind,
as to imagine that learning is unnecellary, or at
most, of little importance sot those, whole busi
ness is wholly domeltic, and extends no farther
than the narrow limits of a single family. But
we fbould not, in matters, in which thehappinefs
of any of our fellow creatures is concerned, fuf
fer the suggestions of fancy, or the caprice of
custom to gain the afcendantover us, and have the
greatest lhare in the regulation of our conduct.
Those who fuffer themi'elves to be guided by cus
tom, must be guilty of the most criminal indif
ference ; and to imagine that education is not lie
ceflary for females, discovers the most careless in
attention to the advantages of it, and betrays an
imbecility of mind unworthy the charatfter and
genius of enlightened Americans If we consider
li family as resembling a kingdom, over which
the mistress presides as Queen, the necessity and
advantages of education will appear conspicuous
to every person j for the affairs of this little state,
tho not equally great and interesting with those
of kingdoms, in themselves are of the utmost im
portance, and on their wife regulation depends
theintereft and happiness of thatfociety.
Tlio ignorance is very unhappy for parents, and
unfavorable to the interest of society, yet its worst
efFeifls are seen in that chain of calamities it en
tails upon posterity to whom it is handed down
by their parents as an hereditary right. But a good
education removes that cloud of darkness which
ignorance imposes upon the understanding, im
piefl'es the mind with virtuous principles, which
contribute greatly to the interest of their children
as well as their own personal happineft. It en
creafes and adorns natural accompliilxments, and
furnilhes every qualification by which either
sex ennoble and diflinguifh tlienifelves. It is
remarkable, that in the liiftory of so many il
luftrions persons in all ages of the world, who
have been famous for their learning and writings,
little mention is made of the female sex. This
general iilence of history concerning them mult
be attributed, in a great measure; to the univer
{al neglect of their inftruiftion, which deprives
them of those means, by which so many of the
other sex have immortalized their names. But
we still find a few of this sex, who have made
great proficiency in knowledge, and distinguish
ed themselves by their excellent writings, both in
prose and verse : These rare instances of female
greatness exhibit to the world an inconteftible
evidence of the advantages of education, and
prove the criminal inattention of thofe,who coun
tenance the neglect of it. In the younger part
of life, inltruclion is very neceflary for this sex, as
it tends to promote their own security and hap
piness. At a time of life, when their pafiions ai e
so strong, and their minds so l oving and 1111 fettled,
ignorance is very unhappy for them, and affords
the fj'copliant a very favorable opportunity to
pradtife liis artifices, and with the greater facility
to flatter and decoy them into vices, which vei'
their good finalities, fully their reputation and
render them rather the objetfls of contempt than
delight. The temptations and allurements to
SA rURDAY January 23, 1790,
vice are so numerous, and arifefroin so many dif.
erent objedts, that to di fcover and refill them re
qiU!er l a i l J un " om . mon degree of circumspection
and lelf denial in any person ; but more efpe
l i ■ 111 * ex > w h°> besides the vices that man
kind in general are exposed to from their incli
nations, are rendered a more easy prey to entice
ments by their own natural ficklenefs and incon
ltancy. But eduotion in fomemeafure supplies
what nature has left deficient. It raises tliein su
perior to the natural credulity of their sex, de
'encjSthem against theartful insinuations of pre
tended friends, as well as the more open attempts
of their enemies, to violate their innocence and
depreciate their character. This noble accom
plilhment teaches them in what true excellence
confills, and how little (he is to be esteemed by
the sensible part of mankind, whose highest am
ntion is employed in gaining admirers by the
gaudy appendages of dress. It furnifhes them
likewise with all those excellent qualities which
adoi n and embellish the mind, adds splendor to
outward ornaments, and new graces to that de
cent, agreeable behavior, which is the leading
chara (fieri flic of female perfection.
FROM THE NORFOLK LHRONILLE.
the old year.
Truditur dies die f
Novo?que pergunt interire Ltincr.—Hor.
OHOOK bv the storms, ch.-s'd by the hail and snow,
The pale old year, with fainting ftcps and flow
Shrinks from the wil , unpit'ying blasts that bear,
Its fcatter'd honors, through the bluft'ring air.
Its Autumn Leaves are fhtd, dead are its Christmas Fires,
But ere the Soge, with tardy steps retires,
To deep with other years and tuft with age,
He writes this An na i , on time's sacred page.
I ve seen dread war, wiih hasty, slaughtering stride,
P * rom the Danube, to the Wolga's tide,
1 redd o er the Hungarian lands, or in Potemkin's form,
Mount the high wall and drive the fiery storm.
" l ' v . c [ c * a 6 rcat George, in Lear's mad disguise,
With feeptcr'd phrenzy dare the threat'ning Ikies,
hilll angel Pitt, with tcmp'ring (kill has known,
t't P f ' nc C) «> n d guard his Monarch's throne.
From George's brain, the madd'ning fury hades,
* ls black wings brush the Regent, as they pass,
Albion's white cliff,for Gallia's coast (he leaves,
And turns to madmen a whole land of slaves.
" Poor Lewis dozing in the £hair of State,
Finds when the Sov'reign nods, the people wake.
44 See from his hand, the sacred sceptre fall,
And madness universal, rage o'er all!
t Empire's fleet coursers, run without a guide,
f*°°k on tbeir necks, the purple trappings Aide :
'' J*he '*gbt Car whirls along with cr«>zy bound,
Its fcattcr'd fragments glitter on the ground ;
Confusion goads the flatting (feeds along,
" Old Anarch glares abroad, and frights the trembling throng.
But let not this our admiration move ;
Order, fir ft horn of Heaven ! Child of its Love !
" W as absent—Her whife, her peaceful wing was spread
" (Wing, Where each plume, with gentlest grace was laid)
*' rhe fun hci guide, fne ey'd his evening ray,
44 And far to Wejtern climes (he wingM her way.
Order alighting on Columbia's land,
" With steady look and ( all subduing hand,
" Lo6fens the many chccks and chains that bound
" 1 he wheels of cmpirfr, lulling to the ground.
u Winds through each maze, arranges, clears, defines,
All forms new models, through each gloom she (hines ;
" On her lair forehead beams the FEDERAL STAR,
Its bright ning glories, lighten from afar;
She points its rays at GEORGE'S honor'd head ;
" The robe of power, fheo'er his fhotilders spread :
" His strong right hand, the sword of justice wields,
'* His left, Columbia's prostrate credit llu.clds :
" Protected thus, credit and honor rife,
•' Raise their fall'n heads and greet the clearer (kies.
" With joyous step these brothers trip along,
" Their fav'ring presence chears the labourer's song.
' Pi-enty comes dancing on the flying wind,
" And purse proud Wealth moves puffing on behind ;
" Ihefe nerve the sinews of fuprcmc command,
" And as their footfteps press the happy land,
" The war-burnt towns, with loftier spires ascend,
'* With chcr fruits, the fpreadieg branches bend :
" More copious harvests deck my fmilingycar,
" And wild with mirth, iny Chrillmas Sons appear.
'* JOY feiz'd the Fhieral Trump, and blew so strong
" The whitetop'd hills, with the wild music rung ;
" The Wcftern Waters heai i the wakening peal,
" Columbia's woods bow to the joyous gale ;
u O'er the rough Lakes, tb'ipfpiring Echo flics,
" And the gay notes, have warm'd their wintry (kies."
Let others then, ungrateful as they are,
Pay all their hdmage to the new born Year,
My patriot verfc, whene'er that ease and wine
Infpirethe song, lhall chant old Eighty-Nine.
Norfolk, December 31, 1789
FREE SCHOOLS,
THE number of Free Schools in Maflachufetts
is said to be more than iooo—ln Connecticut there
are joo. These institutions are the best calculated
" To civilize the rude, unpolilhed world,
" To lay it under the restraint of Laws—
*• And make man mild and sociable to man."—
And their beneficial effects are known and cele
brated throughout the world. That eliablifh
mentsof this kind may continue toincreale, must
be the wish of every friend to freedom.
MR. FENNG,
PERCE IVING that the Fffays I have font you
under the fig nature of the letter H, have been well re
ceived here, and also re-publ'rfhed (tho without any,
acknowledgment to you for them) byfome of the South
ern Printers, I d?n encouraged to fend you another
production of the fame pen. It is entitled AKeverie,
and will afford pleasure to all those of your readers r
who are not insensible to the charms of genius— equal
ly diflinguifhed by a-refinement of tajle, and brillian
cy oj imagination. M.
/- A REVERIE.
UPON readingfome passages in the fourth book
of Virgil, in which he paints the distress of
Dido, upon iier being deserted byjEneas, I could
not help revolving in my mind with a good deal
of uneafinefs,the miseries of Love. My reflections
threw me into a Reverie, which presented to my
mind an imaginary train ol circumstances, which
I lhall now relate, hoping they may tend to che
rish that virtuous sensibility which is the ornament
of our nature. My fancy naturally carried me
into the times of heathenish superstition, which I
hope will be my apology for mentioning Gods and
Goddefles. I imagined that the power of love
had occasioned great discontent, and that the dif
ferent orders of men had entered into an agree
ment to petition Jupiter for her removal.
I thought, that at the head of these complain
ants, stood the men of learning and fcisnce ; they
lamented with vehemence the inroads of love,
and that it often betrayed them from :he paths oif
knowledge, "nto perplexity and intrigue. They
alledged, that it extinguiihed in the bosom of the
young, all thirst after laudable improvement, and
planted in its stead, frivolous and tormenting de
sires. That the pursuit of truth called tor a trail
quil and serene state of mind, whilst love was con
stantly attended with tumult and alarms. What
ever turn flie takes, fay they, flie will ever be an
enemy to labor : her finiles are too gay, and her
difappointmsnts too melancholy for any serious
application. They were grieved to fee that so
trifling a passion fliould occupv so much time and
attention, and that man who was formed to con
template the Heavens and the Earth, should f'pend
half his life in gaining the good graces of the
weaker and more inconsiderable pare of his spe
cies. I thought I perceived that this turn for love
and gallantry gave particular offence to the whole
tribe of /ijtronomers and profound Fhilofophers.
They saw witli indignation that many of our
youth are more anxious to explain a look, than
to solve a problem, and that they would often be
playing with a fan, when they Ihould be hand
ling a quadrant. It infatuates every one, said
they, who is so unhappy as to be touched with it.
He is often more attentive to every change of
countenance in a celebrated beauty, than to the
phases of the moon, and is more anxious to be
acquainted with all her manoeuvres, than with the
motion of the whole planetary system. One in
particular affirmed upon his knowledge, that he
had been acquainted with students in Anatomy,
who looked with more curiosity into the counte
nance of. a young beauty," than upon the diflec
tion of a bullock's eye. Some who pretend to fee
much farther than the vulgar, considered every
thing relative to love, as capricious and visiona
ry. Since we are all formed of the fame materi
als,- it seemed to them very unreasonable, that a
little difference of form and colour should raise
such violent emotions. Beauty, they said, was
but a fuperficial covering, and every thing at the
bottom was alike. Upon this principle they look
ed upon it as the height of philosophy to view
with indifference what has always given mankind
the greatest pleasure. This humour they carried
so far, that they lamented they could not strip
nature herfelf of her delulions as they termed
them, by taking off those agreeable colourings of
light and fiiade, which lie upon the objedts that
fin-round us, and give them all their riclinefs and
beauty. They would have been glad to have
turned the creation into a colourleis and dreary
waste, that they might have wandered up and
down and taken a closer survey of it.
The next class of petitioners I observed, were
the men of bufmefs ; they set out with remarking,
that they did not join in the complaints that were
made against love upon their own account; for
tho they had been weak enough in the younger
part of their lives, to fall under its influence, it
was many years since they had felt the slightest
impression of it. They had in view the welfare
of their children, and this being neither more or
less than their affluence, they were led to consi
der love chiefly in the light of an expensive pas
sion. Its little tendernefles and endearments ap
peared to them inexpressibly ridiculous, and they
A YANKEE.
[Published 6« IVednefJay and Saturday.]
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.wondered how any body could be loolifli enough
to spend hours in tattling to a woman without
thinking to gain a farthing by it. They gave a
long liti of young men who had been frugal and
industrious, till they were enticed by love to pre
fer pleasure to profit. They declared, that when
we take an account of balls and treats, and trin
kets of various kinds, with the loss of time inse
parably attendant upon them, it was at the peril
of a fortune to attempt the heart of a beloved ob
ject. I was a good deal amused with the manner
in which they treated of love ; they considered it
as they would any other commodity, setting a
price upon every part of it. They reckoned a
ligh at a ihilling, and if it chanced to be observed
by the person for whom it was intended, it was
■well if half a guinea cleared the expence of it.
A fide glance was reckoned at half as much as a
full view ; they proportioned out all the parts of
a beautiful peifon, and made a valuation of each
of them—the fame scale was applied to their ve
ry attitudes ; for the fight of a beautiful woman
dancing, was accounted an enormous expence,
and if Ihe chanced to fmilc with any degree of
complacency on any one, it was well if he was
not ruined ; under these impressions they consi
dered love as a certain forerunner of poverty.
There was one complaint raised against this
paflion, which I thought had something in it
more plausible, than any I have yet mentioned ;
it turned upon the eale with which it makes its
approaches upon us, and the impofllbiliiy of
guardingagainlt its firft advances. We have been
able, fay they, by art, to manage the elements
so as in general to prevent any dangerous over
flowings of them. We brave the storm 111 (hips,
and dive into the feain bells, but the ingenuity
of man has hit upon no contrivance to five us
from the influence of love. Could we cull it in
to amulea leisure hour, or to relieve the languor
oi" a few tedious moments, and then difinifs it
again, it might be efteeined a blefiing, in a life
so barren of enjoyment. But ic is an influence
that is shed all around us, and pours itfelf upon,
us from every corner. It often lies hid betwixt
the keys of an harpficord, and is fliaken out with
a few touches of the finger. It flounces in an a
pron and is trailed along in a petticoat. Nocir
cumftance can preserve us from it, for it will of
ten Ileal upon us when we are the least upon our
guard. It hides itfelf in a look, and waves in
ringlets of the hair. It will enter by an eye, an
ear, a hand or foot.—A glance and gaze are
sometimes equally fatal.
I was next presented with a scene which I thought
as interesting and solemn as tan enterttie imagi
nation of man. This was 110 other than a view
of the whole train of disappointed lovers. At
the fight of them my heart infeiifibly melted in
to the most tender compassion. There was an ex
treme dejection mingled with a piercing wildnefs
in their looks, that was very affecling. Chear
fulnefs and fereniry, I could easily percieve they
had been long ftrangersto. Their countenances
were overspread with a gloom, which appeared
to be of long Handing, and to be collected there,
from dark and dismal imaginations. There was
at the fame time, all that kind of animation in
their features,which betokens troubled thoughts.
Their air and manner was altogether lingular,
and filch as marks a spirit at once eager ana irre
solute. Their step was irregular, and they ever
and anon started and looked around them, as tho
they were alarmed by fonie secret terror. I was
fomewliatfurprifed in looking through the whole
aflembly, not to fee any one that wept. When
they had arrived at the place where they had de
termined to present their united petitions, I was
particularly attentive to observe every thing that
palled. Tho I listened I could not learn any tiling
diftindtly. After an interval of profound lilence,
a murmur only of broken sighs and piercing ex
clamations, was heard through the aflembly. I
should have mentioned that some of them fell off
before they had got to the place of rendezvous.
They halted for some time, and continued in a
melancholy fufpence, whether they fliould turn
back or go forward. They knew not which to
prefer ; the tranquility of indifference or the
tenderdiftreflesof love ; at length they inclined
to the latter, not having resolution even to wilh
for the extinction of a paifion which mingled it
felf with the very elements of their exigence.
Why, said they,(hould we banish from our minds,
the image of all that is pleasing and delightful,
and which if wefliould once forget, there would
be notlii ng left in the world worth remembering
The agitation and anjciety felt upon this occafiim
could I lay it fully open to the reader, would
form a more intereding picture than thejdelibera
tions of Cajfar whether he fhouldpafs the Rubicon.
I imagined there were several orlier diitindt
bodies of men who complained to the heavenly
powers of the tyranny of love, but the particu
lars having in a great measure faded from my me
mory,the reader mnft exeufe my paliing them over
in lilence. 1 must not however forget to observe
that the number and unanimity of those who pre
fented tlieir petitions upon this occasion, were
fuch,that they might fairly be cotifidered as repre
f'enting the fentinients of far the greatijl part oj
mankind. (To be concluded in our next.)
[-326-]
CONGRESS
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
WEDNESDAY, JAN. 20, 1790.
ON motionof Mr. Sturges, the petitior of Je
remiah Ryan was referred to the ' retary
at War.
A petition from Cornelius Hoffman, in behalf
of sundry inhabitants of Weft Chelter county,
State of New-York, praying coinpenfation for
property taken by the American army, was read,
and laid on the table.
Mr. Wadfworth moved that sundry petitions
from invalid officers and ibldiers which were read
yeiterday and laid on the table, should be refer
ed to the Secretary at War—which motion was
adopted
The report of the committee on thepetition of
Hannibal William Dobbyn, was taken up.
Mr. Scot, one of the committee on this peti
tion informed the House, that on enquiry of the
gentleman petitioning, it appeared that he was
solicitous to purchase a larger trad of land than
is at present convenient to him to pay for : He
proposes to pay one third of the money down.—
Mr. Scot therefore moved that the following ad
dition be made to the report, That one third be
paid down, one third at the end of seven years,
and the other third at the end of twelve years,
with interest at fix per cent, on the two thirds
unpaid, from the time ot closing the contra&.
The immediate adoption of this motion was ob
jected to by Mr. Smith, (S. C.) as the terms of
naturalization and citizenship are not yet deter
mined on, and aliens cannot hold real property
but as trultees, and it may be doubted how far
natives of foreign countries may be able to com
ply with fuel) laws as may be ena<fted—at least it
will be prudent not to precipitate the business,
but to wait till the plan of uniform naturali
zation is reported. He therefore proposed, that
the confiderat ion ofthe report should be poftp^ned.
It was observed, in answer to thei'e objections,
tliat it is of importance that the proposals of fo
reigners for the purchase of the unappropriated
lunds, should be attended to with promptitude—
that they should meet with as little difficulty as
possible, especially in the firft applications, left
they should bedifcouraged : With refpeft to the
terms of naturalization,the difficulty might beea
fily surmounted by felling the lands uponcondition
of a compliance with the laws of the United States
in that cafe.
Mr. Boudinot objecfted to the motion for an ad
dition to the report: He observed, that desultory,
partial sales of the Western Territory, would be
attended with great loss to the United States : He
preferred the adoption of a system for the faleof
those lands, previous to any partial sale : There
have been large sales made—there are existing
contracts, which are not compleated: It there
fore appears that the House cannot proceed un
derftandingly in the business, with the informa
tion on the fubjetft now in their pofleffion : If
proper methods are adopted, the unappropriated
lands may be rendered a source of wealth to the
Union. Under proper regulations, (said he,) I
lhould be fully in fentiinent with gentlemen who
are in favor of the motion ; bur at present I should
prefer a suspension of the business—and therefore
would move that the repoft of the committee be
referred to the Secretary of the Treasury.
i he motion, with the following addition, was
seconded by Mr. Sedgwick, viz. To report a uni
form system for the sale of the Western Territory
of the United States.
Mr. Sherman, in favorof themotion, observed,
that the Western Territory, if properly disposed
of, would prove of very great importance to the
United States—but if fold indiscriminately to
adventurers and speculators, the United States
might get an acceflion of inhabitants whose prin
ciples may be oppoied to our republi an govern
ment, and we (hall never realize the value of the
lands, or those advantages which are expected to
be derived from that source : He then pointed
out the necelfity of adopting a previous system,
of dividing the Territory into townships, coun
ties and Itates—and of making proper reserva
tions for public uses, and felling in such lots as
would tend to enhance the value of the residue.
Some gentlemen objected to the motion in this
form : It was proposed that the report fhouldlay
on the table—and that the Secretary should be
direftedto prepare a uniform system for the sale
of the Western Territory of the United States.
It was said, that the motion as it now stood, if
adopted, would dispose of the report of the com
mittee in such manner, as appeared to preclude
the petition, on which the report is founded.
Mr. Baldwin said, That in his opinion the House
of Representatives is not a proper body to arrange
this business. The executive officers of govern
ment, in whose pofleffion are the documents of
information, are the most competent to form the
neceflary fyftenis : Nor is this a novel mode of
doing business of this nature : It is consonant to
the practice ofCongrefs under the late Confeder
ation : He then read several resolves from their
journals, by which the late Board ofTreafury
were empowered to contrast with purchasers
and in cases where credit was given, the purcha
ser received a certificate of his being entitled to
the lands—but not a deed : In respect to credir,
it had been cuilomary, and one resolve lpecifieil
seven different payments in a purchase. He was
therefore in favor of refering the bulinefs to the
Secretary of the Treasury, that he might report a
uniform fylteni for the f'ale of thole lands ; butt<>
refer the report of a committee of the House to
any executive officer, appeared to him informal.
The motion for refering the report to the Se
cretary being put, was negatived.
It was then moved that the report should lie on
the table, and the Secretary be directed to report
a plan as above.
This motion, Mr. White observed, must be con
sidered as a negative to the application now be
fore the house—and would prove a discourage
ment to future applicants, and prevent emigra
tions to this country : In refpedt to which, said
he, I do not entertain any apprehensions of dan
ger from the principles of those who may wiih
to fettle among us. The present application, if
attended to, may be productive of others, as ic
will of very great advantage to the United States
and need not preclude the adoption of a uniform
system, by which in future, applications to Con
gress will be rendered unneceflary.
Mr. Sedgwick said, that whatever might have
been his own private opinion, he Ihould now
from experience, be for ihutting the doorao-ainft
all particular applications. It will be impoiG
ble to attend to the numerous instances that
may be expected to follow, if the petitions of
individuals are to employ the time of the legisla
ture. There can not any great inconveniencies
result from a little delay. He was therefore for
digesting a regular system, and not for determin
ing in any particular cafe until that was done.
Adivilionof the motion was called for, and the
question, Shall the report lie on the table? was
determined in the affirmative.
The second part of the motion for refering the
fubjeft of a uniform plan to the Secretary of the
Treasury being put, was adopted.
The report of the Secretary of the Department
of War, on the petition of Charles Marckly, was
read a second time,and ordered to lie on the table.
Mr. Sherman moved that aftateoffaifts refpecft
ing the Western Territory, as reported by a
Committee to this House the laftTeffion, be refer,
ed to the Secretary of the Treasury for his infor
mation.
Mr. Wadfworth of the committee on that part
of the President's Speech refpecfting the South-
Weltern Frontiers, and Indian Affairs, informed
the House that the committee is ready to report.
This report, relating to bufinefsof a confidential
nature, the doors of the gallery were flint. After
a short interval the galleries were again opened.
A meflage was received from the Senate, in
forming the House, that they had appointed Mr.
Maclay, Mr. Ellfworth, and Mr. Henry, to confer
with a committee of the House, upon the question
whether or not the unfinifhed buiinefs of the lalk
feflion (hall be taken up in the present, in the
fame manner as if no adjournment had taken
place.
A concurrence with the Senate and the ap
pointment of a committee on the part of the
House was moved : This motion was objedted to,
and the recent instance of the appointment of a
committee, de novo, on a business which was left
unfinifhed the last felfion, was urged as declaring
the fepfe ofthehouferefpe<ftingtheunfini(hed bu
siness—the sense of the house being thus declared,
there is no propriety in appointing a committee
of conference, when there does not appear to be
any fubjett of disagreement ; on the contrary it
rather is probable, that there is a majority of the
Senate in favor of the pra&ice which the House
has adopted.
1° support of the motion it was said, that the
appointing of a committee of conference did not
neceflarily infer the existence of any fubjedl of
disagreement: That except the two Houfesfliould
a<sl jointly and upon similar rules, it is difßculc
to conceive how the public business could proceed.
Several initances were cited of the embarrailments
which would arise from one House' taking up the
unfinilhed bufiijefs in the State it wasleft, and the
other originating the fame business dt novo.
The motion was adopted, and a committee of
five members appointed, viz. Mr. Sherman, Mr.
1 hatcher, Mr. Hartley, Mr. White, and Mr.
Jackson.
Mr. Lee then moved, that the committee be in
structed by the House to inform the committee of
the Senate, that this House had already decided
in favor of taking up the unfinilhed business of
the last fefiion de novo.
Mr. \V hite observed, that inftrutflions would
be unneceflary, as the Senate must have known al
ready of this decision.
_Mr. Livermore was againftinftru<fling the com
mittee : VVe are not informed that the Senare
have inftrutfled their committee, said he : If the
committees are reftridted, perhaps they will not
meet upon equal ground. The business of com
mittees is to inveftigate,and therefore they should
not be. reftriifted. The House adjourned,
without a decision on Mr. Lee's motion.THURSDAY, JANUARY 21
Mr. Fitzfimons, Mr. Sylvester, and Mr. Leo
nard took their feats this day.
Mr. Thatcher introduced the petition of Le
muel Miller an officer in the late army—praying
an allowance of commutation for reasons aifign
ed.—Read and laid on the table.
The petition of David Sturges, presented the
last felfion, was read and referred to the Secreta
ry at War.
A meffagc from the President of the United
States was received by the Secretary of the De
partment of War, accompanied by a plan pre
pared by the Secretary for the arrangement of
the militia of the United States.
UNITED STATES, JANUARY 21, 1790.
Gentlemen of the Senate,
and Houfi of Reprefeutatives,
THE Secretary of the Department of War,
has submitted tome certain principles to serve as
a plan for the general arrangement of the militia
of the United States.
Conceiving the fubjedt to be of the highest im
portance to the welfare of our country, and lia
ble to be placed in various points of view, 1 have
directed him to lay the plan before Congress for
their information, in order that they may make
such use thereof as they may judge proper.
G. WASHINGTON.
REPORT OF THE SECRETARY AT WAR.
WAR-OFFICE, January 18, 1790.
S I R,
HAVING fubinitted to your consideration a
plan for the arrangement of the militia of the
United States, which I have presented to the late
Congress, and you having approved the general
principles thereof, with certain exceptions, I now
rel'pectfully lay the fame before you, modified
according to the alterations you were pleased to
suggest.
It has been my anxious defile to devise a na
tional fyltem of defence, adequate to the proba
ble exigencies of the United States, whether ari
sing from internal or external causes ; and at the
fame time to erect a standard of republican mag
nanimity, independent of and luperior to the
powerful influences of wealth.
The convulsive events, generated by the inor
dinate pursuit of riches or ambition, require that
the government fiiould poflefs aftrong corrective
arm.
The idea is therefore fubinitted, whether an
efficient military branch of the government can
be invented, with fafety to the great principles
of liberty, unless the fame (hall be formed of the
people themselves, and fupparted by their habits
and manners. I havethe honorto be, Sir, with
the molt perfect refpecfl, your obedient servant,
H. KNOX, Secretary for the War Department.
The President of the United States.
The Plan was then read
Mr. Lawrance moved that the petition of the
inhabitance of Weftchefter,read yesterday should
be referred to the Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Jackson objecfted to a partial reference ofa
business of this kind to the Secretary of the Trea
sury—he should make no objecftion to refering
the whole fubjecfl of lodes of a similar nature, in
the several States to that department, on the
principal of doing equal justice to all. The mo
tion for referring it to the Secretary was adopted.
On motion, the report of the Secretary of the
Department of War was referred to a committee
of the whole House on the state of the Union.
Voted, that 300c0pies of this report be printed.
Mr. Sedgwick of the committee appointed to
bring in a bill to make provision for persons em
ployed in the intercourse between the United
States and foreign nations, introduced a report
which was read the firft time.
Mr. Wadfworth moved for the order of the
day, which was, that the House ftiould relolve it
felf into a committee of the whole on the report
of the committee on the state of the fouth-weit
ern fronties, and Indian Affairs, which motion
being adopted, the galleries were (hut, and not
opened again during the day.
FRIDAY, JANUARY 22-
From the journal of yesterday's proceedings it
appeared, that the report of the committee 011
that part of the President's Speech refpecfting the
south-western frontiers, and Indian Affairs, was
difcufled in a committee of the whole House,
who accepted the fame without any amendments.
The Chairman reported the determination of the
committee to the House, but an adjournment be
in called for, the business was not compleated
yesterday.
The Secretary of the Treasury, agreeable to
notice given in his report on Tliurfday of last
week, laid before the House this day, a report
refpeiiling the poft-office, received from the Post-
Master-General, which being read, was referred
to a feledt committee confiftingofMr. Fitzfimons,
Mr. Gerry, Mr. Sinnickfon, Mr. Parker and Mr.
Stone
Mr Sherman of the committee of conference
on the part of the Hotife, brought in a report,
which is in substance as follows —That the com-
mittee of the House and Senate liave agreed that
the unfiniihed business of tlie lalt fellion, which
has palled from one House to the other, shall be
considered as if it had not been aifted upon.
This report was laid on the table.
On motion of Mr. Thatcher, the petition of
Lemuel Miller was read the second time.
Thebill for making provision for persons em
ployed in the intercourse between the United
States, and foreign nations, was read the second
time—and made the order of the day for Mon
day next—then to be taken into consideration by
the committee of the whole House.
The attention of the House was then called to
the report on the Indian Business and south- weil
ern frontiers, which occasioned an order for
clearing the galleries.
FOR THE GAZETTE OF THE UNITED STATES.
Interefling information for the Admirers and Patrons
of the Fine Arts in America, refpeEling
MR. TRUMBULL'S historical PAINTINGS
MR. TRUMBULL, who lately returned from
Europe, proposes to describe in a series
of Paintings, the most remarkable Events of the
late American Revolution. Heha& in contempla
tion the following fubjeifts, viz.
I. The Death of Warren at the Battle of Bun
ker's Hill.
11. The Death of Montgomery in the Attack
of Quebec.
111. The Congress of 1776111 the Declaration
of Independence.
IV. The Surrender of the Hessians at Tren-
V. The Death of Mercer at the Battle of
Princeton.
VI. The Surrender of Burgoyne at Saratoga.
VII. The Treaty with France.
VIII. The Surrender of Lord Cormvallis at
York Town.
IX. The Signing the Treaty of Peace.
X. The Evacuation of New-York by the
Britiih in 1783.
XI. The Resignation of Gen. Washington.
XII. The President received by the Ladies
of Trenton at the Triumphal Arch.
XIII. The Inauguration of the PRESIDENT
THE Portraits of the principal Actors in these
great scenes will bepreferved ; and Prints will be
published of the wiiole. The two firft of these
Subjects are finifhed, and the Paintings in the
hands of eminent Engravers in Europe. Four
others are commenced, some of which are halt
completed. These, with the remainder of the
Work, if prosecuted, will require many years of
application, and a very conliderable expence.—
It is now to be decided, whether Mr. 1 rumbull
will meet with such Patronage in America as will
juftify him in involving himfelfin such consider
able expences of Time and Money ; or whether he
will be obliged to relinquish a favorite undertak
ing and return to Europe: Where Subjects of a
different nature and more interesting to the feel
ings ofthe People of that Continent, will ensure
him employment in a more profitable, though less
agreeable manner. We' understand that che
Engravings are to be published in numbers, con
taining two each : The price will be three Gui
neas for every Print ; and, we are told, a Sub
scription for this purpose is soon to be opened.
PETERSBURG, January 7.
The bill, for cutting a navigable canal from
the waters of P&fquotank river to the waters of
Elizabeth river, which was under consideration
at the last fefiion of the general aflembly of North-
Carolina, is postponed until their next fefiion.
They have palled an a<ft for the purpose of ced
ing to the United States, certain western lands.
BALTIMORE, January 15
Ext raft from " Political State of Europe, for
Ofloiir, 1789.
" The unsettled State of France is still, and in
all probability will long continue to be, the grand
fubiect of political and moral observation. Li
berty that had been forced to take flielter in the
extremities of the earth, returns and raises her
standard in the very centre of the civilized
where {he will extend her dominion andinfluence*
to nations that now he under darkness and the fia
dow of death. The throne of Freedom being once
established, the gov eminent of France will become
ftronser than it ever was, for any length of time,
in the reign of defpotiim, and the genius of the
people still more ardent and enterprising. The
chain of authority is strongest when it is volunta
ry. In forced obedience there is a principle of
di (content and refiftence, which only waits for an
opportunity of innovation. There is another way
in which freedom ttrengthens the authority of
government: By encouraging industry it multi
plies the public resources; it affords a fund of
credit, and the means of taxation."
327
TASTE
NEW-YORK. JANUARY 23
The patriot, whose unwearied mind,
Toils for the good of human kind ;
Who on the wings of honor borne,
Looks down on glittering duit with fcorn--
Whcn intends to save the State,
His Counsels turn thefcalesof I'.;t .
The United States have an extenlive field of
contemplation opened before them in the business
of funding the public debts.— Ourfituation in re
gard to this important fubje<ft is truly interellitlg.
Hitherto we have not availed ourselves of the
wisdom and experience of foreign countries; but
adopting such local and independent plans as ap
peared expedient to the legislatures of the several
States, all of which are calculated upon the lead
ing views of the influencing majorities in the
State Governments ; from the want of uniformity,
confillency and ftridl justice, in all, or the most
of them—in what a wretched predicament do we
behold the debts of the individual governments
placed ! With refpetfl to the debts of the United
States, there is every apology to be made for their
situation, which can arifefrom the want of every
principle of power in the late confederation, ne
ceflary to eftablilh the public credit, and lessen the
burden of the debt, by arrangements calculated
to promote these important objects. At different
periods, some partial attempts were made to in
stitute a department with a responsible officer at
its head, to be veiled with necellary powers to
carry such measures into effect, as the exigences
of our affairs required; but it was reserved to the
wisdom, and enlightened policy of the prelent
competent Legillature of the Union, to compleat
the eftabliihinent of such a department. The
public is now favored with the result of the inde
fatigable labors of the minister of this depart
ment.
As our country in many of its great movements,
loses fight of those imbecile, inefficient and con
fufed tranfadiions, which mark the early llages
of other nations—and nobly ranks in politics, go
vernment, and laws, with the oldest and wisest ;
so in the great business of Finance, the best mo
dels, and the best experience of the most inform
ed and prosperous countries, appear to have at
tracted the consideration of the Secretary of the
Treasury, in the report laid before Congress.
The Britiih finances were involved in confufion
for several centuries ; but from the firft moment
of their adopting a system of finance, their affairs
aflumed a different afpedt, and have ever since
been progrpffing in a line of improvement —con-
trasted with their situation a century ago, tlieir
present wealth, power and commercial conse
quence, are enhanced, so as to elude calculation.
It is beyond a doubt that no other nation upon
the Globe could have supported the expence of
the late American war; and with that amazing
addition to her debt, to the astonishment of all
the world, she now appears tobeftill rifipgin the
scale of empire and extending her plans of trade,
her manufactures and credit. This example, with
out a parallel in the hi (lory of nations, of the
power of a well I'upported credit,. may justly ar
rest the attention of this country ; and the minis.
ter who should not investigate and unfold to the
people the principles which in their operation,
have produced such wonderful effects, would be
guilty of unpardonable remiflnefs. The Secre
tary of the Treasury therefore with freedom and
independence, has fairly proposed such plans as
appear to be the result of such an investigation.
There may be prejudices existing in the minds
of some persons against almost every deviation
from iyftems to which we have been accustomed ;
but as our experience on those systems, is diredtly
opposed to the general interest, and those now
proposed have the test of success to recommend
them, a fair, candid, and impartial examination
should certainly precede a judgment on their me
rits or defedls.
Our public debt is no\V within manageable
bounds—now is the day of falvation —if we are
wife, we shall be wife for ourfelves,but.if we re
je<fi the counsels of wisdom, and ltill procrafti
cate the funding of all our debts, upon the prin
ciples of found policy, which are those ofjuftice,
" future generations will rife up, and call us"
citrfed.
The idea of a discrimination among the cre
ditors of the United States,involves so many per
plexities, and inextricable difficulties, that its
advocates address all their observations upon the
fubjeft, to the passions of their readers—in this
|they are wife : An attempt to form a system on
<iny line of justice, to effedt the obje(£i, will in
stantly convince any perfou in his senses, of its
total impracticability.—A. loaned government
iooo dollars specie in the year 1776, but to prevent
its being known that he was a creditor he took
out his certificate in the name of B ; A long since
has paid the debt of nature —B nowpoflefles this
certificate, after passing fifty different
hands—B's name stands recorded in thebooks of
the United States—who can fay he is not an ori
final creditor, tho he purchased the evidence of
ebt at three shillings on the pound ?
The Aflembly of the State of Rhode-Island have
voted to call a Convention for the purpose of a
doptingtheConftitutionofthe United States.THE OBSERVER No. XIV
[CONCLUDED.]
A N import in commerce is an article of goods brought from a
foreign country, cither by land or water, chiefly by water.
An export is an article sent from our own to a foreign country.
Every article of home produce or manufacture may be exported ;
but is not considered as an export unless a&uaiiy sent abroad. Du
ties on exports are uiually paid on the shipment of the goods.
Now it will be admitted that every article of merchandize
brought hither from a foreign country is an import, at the tithe of
entry and delivery ; and of course, that no State can, without £he
consent of Congress, lay any tax or duty upon them at the time
of importation. But the main question is, whether after the
goods are landed, lodged in ware-houses, and opened for sale
they do not lose the name of imports. If they do, the States are
not prohibited from laying duties upon them at any period, after
they have loft their appellation.
I presume to alTert that in the common language of merchants,
goods impor:ed never loose the name of imports. The whole
sale merchant, and the fmalltft retailer, would call the goods in
their stores and shops, imports ; the imports of the country ; the
imports from England, Ireland, and the Weft-Indies. These
phrases are the usual language of the country. If then the com
mon popular acceptation of a word, used and understood in all
commercial countries, is to decide the point, goods brought from
abroad never loose the name of imports. When lhould they loose
the name ? Is it when they are landed ? When they are opened ?
Or w hen they are fold to the retailer ? I confefs I am yet to be
informed at what particular period or stage of bufinefethis change
takes place ; or by what name the goods lhall be called after hav
ing loft the name of imports. Should it be said that Congress,
having cxerciftd their authority over these goods and colleaed a
duty upon them at the time of importation, can have no farther
light over them ; the goods are then vyithin the jurifdiftion of the
State governments, and fubjeft entirely to their laws ; this would
not operate against my argument. For this unlimited power of
the States might interfere with the commerce of the United States,
over which Congress are empowered to exercise cxclufivc autho
rity. Suppose a State lhould lay a duty upon the retailing of dry
goods, of 25 or 30 percent, the highest poftible profit,and lhould
enforce the collection with themoft rigoroui feveiity, would not
such a duty entirely defeat the commerce of that State ? Moll
cleaily, But would not this interfere with the national com
merce, which, by a clause of the constitution, is placed folcly un
der the controul of Congress? It certainly would. But suppose.
three, five or more of the States should take such a ftcp, would
not Congress have power to counteract such ruinous measures ? By
the constitution they undoubtedly have such power. Now admit
the principle, that the States can lay any* the smallest duty on
imports, under the name of an excise, by the fame right they can
laythelargeft duties, amounting to an actual prohibition of the
articles : And a constitutional power in the States to laydutics on
goods imported, under any name whatever, is a power fully com
petent to ruin the whole commerce of the United State? : A pow
er which lam confident, does not extft. A right then in each
State to lay duties on imported articles, will certainly interfere
with our national commerce ; but the constitution of the United
States prohibits every such interference, by giving the power of
regulating foreign commerce and the commerce between the
States, exclusively to Congress. The power then claimed by the
States of imposing duties on imported articles in any shape, is
dire&ly opposed to the letter, a well as to the spirit of the con
stitution.
There is another clause of the constitution, thefpiritof which
seems to oppo/e thij power in the States ; viz. that " which de
clares that all dutiee laid by Congress ihall be uniform throughout
the United States." The defi_;n oi this clause is not merely to pre
vent Congrcfs from laying duties in a partial manner ; it has this
farther deiign of preven' mg one State from having fuperioradvan
tages to its neighbor, and the infinite number of frauds which al
ways grow out of a difference of prices in different parts of
the country. But if the States have power to lay duties on arti
cles -of import, the evil is not removed ; for some States purchase
these articles in other States. IF Connecticut can lay duties on dry
goods and call them excises ; New-York can do the fame ; and
that State also can, as Conne&icut has done, define the word retail
in the most arbitrary manner. The legislature Hiajf fay that the
sale of goods of less value than thirty, forty or fifty pounds (hall
be deemed a retail sale. This is afTuming no more than Cornefti
cut has done. But would not this measure lay a duty on goods
>-urchafed every day by our traders ? The merchants in Mew-York
must evade the duty, or our traders mud pay it. Would not this
be dircftly repugnant to the federal conflitution ; one great end of
which it to difai in the S:ates ot this power of imposing duties on
their neighbors ? 1 pre In me that no man will deny that it would.
In every pontof view therefore the cxcife of an individual
State is inconfiftrnt with the federal coufti'.ution. ' Jt it repugnant
to the words of it, for every species of cxcife is an import, ac
cording to the tru* meaning of the word ; and we may with e
qual propriety, fay, the impoftof customs, the import of tonnage,
the import of land tax, ortbe import of excifc. The last phrale,
impoftof excise, is used by the bell writers on the fubjeft.
The duties laid by any State are repugnant to the spirit and
intent of the . onftitulion, for they a£>ually do and may still more
interfere with the commerce of the United States; and the pow
er of taxing articles of import at any time or in anyway, if once
admitted to exist in the individual States, willamount toa power
of cmbarrafling trade, and even of prohibiting any importation
at all. Thisconclufion is so obvious, that Ido not fee h&w it can
be denied, for if we admit a principle, we admit all its ncceffary
conferences.
The States leem to have power to lay excises according to the
liueotiginal sense of tile word ; that is duties ontheproduce and
manufactures of their own State. Further than this their power
docs not extend. Congress also have a concurrent power with the
States in this particular ; " to lay and coilefl taxes, duties, im
ports, and excises." Thrfe words comprehend every species of
tax upon real or personal crtate. Monies raised on lands, polls,
houses, Cattle, &c. are uftially failed taxes. Monies raised on
goods imported or exported are called dut'es and import*. Mo
nies railed on manufactures and the retailing of liquors are called
excises. But in a more enlarged sense, taxes and. imports com
prehend every method of levying money on real or personal eftite.
Duties is usually rertrifled to taxes on goods, wares and merchan
dize; exeife only being confined, to a particular mode of laving
duties, and for the most part, to duties on manufactures. Thefc
dirtinftions are well . p.derfti d in England, and probably will
soon be equally ertablifhed and understood in America.
(From the Connefiicut Courant.)
FROM THE MASSACHUSETTS CENTINEL
O TEM PGR A ! O MORES !
IN' peruiin; an Englilh paper the other day, our eyes readily
caught the words in capitals
" BT EXPRESS
at the head of a couple of columns, and our imagination inflantly
ialtened on it, in expectation ot something important and highly
interfiling. But our mortification may b® easily conceived, when
we found it nothing but an account of a boxing match between
Johnson and Per r ins.in Oxfordlhirc—with a lengthv accoufit
of the Stage, the Umpires, [too NMemtn .'] bottle holders, &c.
100,000 guineas depended on fh is combat—and Johnlon the victor
rcccitcd 1200 guineas as his purt of the door money !!!
ADDRESS,
Of the LEGISLATURE of MASSACHUSETTS.
To GEORGE WASHINGTON,
PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES of AMERICA. •
SIR,
YOUR acccptance of your prefcnt exalted and important Ra
tion, affords universal joy to the people of Massachusetts.
They have long felt the moil grateful veneration for your charac
ter, and attachment to your person ; and they reiletl with pleasure
on the ardor which your presence inspired in the alarming and
novel circumftancts of a war within their country, and on their
civil security, so soon reftoied, by the diicipline and success of
the army under your command.
The unanimity of the fuffrages of these States in your ele&ion,
is no lels a teilimony of your merit, than of the gratitude of ihis
exienfive community. They have declared, by inverting you
with thepowers of their President, their confidence in you from
their experience of your wisdom and virtu' s, and they delight to
honor you ; for your feivices in their estimation will yet exceed
their rewards.
The union of these States by a form of government intended to
secure the bleflings ol liberty, is rendered more perfect under you,
as their Chief. All the advantages of that g vernment,of our na
tional independence and civil liberty, may be rationally expe&ed
under your admimftrarion. From you, we shall receive thofeex
amples of public and private economy, of prudence, fortitude,
and patriotism, of jufticc, morality, and religion, which, by the
aid of Divine Providence, insure the welfare of the community.
To express the voice of our constituents, we join in the congra
tulations of United America, on this great event, and we earnest
ly implore the protection of Almighty GOD, upon your person
and family, that he would afford you hi& divine aid in the duties
of your important llation, and would long continue you as a ble(-
sing to the United States.
THE ANSWER.
To the SENATE and House of REPRESENTATIVES of the
Stale of MASSACHUSETTS.
GENTLEMEN,
Address with which I have been honored, has made a
JL most fenfiblc impreflion upon me. That my acceptancc of the
Presidency of these United States,(hould have givenjoy to the peo
ple ot MafTachufctts—and that my condutt through our late arduous
ftmggle for liberty and independence, hath met the approbation
of the citizens of that Commonwealth, will be confideicd by me,
as among the most pleasing circumstances of my life.
In executing the duties of my prcfent important station, I can
promise nothing but purity of intentions—and in carrying these
into effect, fidelity and diligence ; if these, under the guidance of
a superintending Providence, shall continue to me the approbation
and affcltion of my fellow-citizens of the Union, it will be the
highest gratification and th« moll ample reward that my mind can
form any conception of, in this life.
The adoption of the present government by so large a majority
of the States, and their citizens—and the gtowing dispositions
which arc among all difcriptions of men, 10 give sup
port and energy to it, are indications of its merit—auspicious of
the future greatness and welfare of the Empire, which will grow
under it—and is the foundation on which I build my hopes of pub
lic felicity ; —the best efforts of mine towards the accomplifhincnt
of these great and glorious objects can only be secondary.
For the Benedictions which you have been pleased to implore
from the Parent of the Universe on my perfonaud family, I have a
grateful heart—and the most ardent wifli, that we may ALL, by
rectitude of condnft, and a perfect reliance on his beneficence,
draw the smiles of Heaven on ourselves and posterity to the lateil
generation. GEORGE WASHINGTON'
XT I_. t..1- n
New-York', July 9, 1789.
FROM THE FEDERAL GAZETTE.
Mr. BROWN,
THE absurdity of attempting by a bill of rights
to secure to freemen what they never part
ed with, inuft be fejf-evident. No enumeration
of rights can secure to the people all their privi
leges—So well do the advocates of bills of rights
i'eeni convinced of this, that they think onefweep
ing clause absolutely neceflary, viz. " That all
the rights not delegated are retained. Can any
thing be rtiore ridiculous ! I convey to a man a
certain lioufe and lot j but, left this should enti
tle him to any of my other houses and lots, I en
ter into an enumeration of them, and wifely ex
cept them out of the grant ; and to remove all
doubt, absolutely declare, that I reserve to my
felfall my estate not conveyed as above.
The writer of a piece signed a New-Yorker in
your paper of Monday last, likemoft of the ad
vocates for bills of rights, adduces precedent in
stead of argument to support his opinion. He
fays, " The convention now fitting at Philadel
phia, have judged it fafe and wife to prefix a bill
of rights to their new constitution, and have even
interwoven it in the very body of the instru
ment (fee article IX.)"
Without remarking on his use of the word pre
fix, or comparing it to the Irilh preface placed at
the end of a book, let me inform him thatthe con
vention have riot judged a bill of rights either fafe
or wife —A committee of nine members have re
ported a bill of rights ; but in this, as in other
parts of their report, the convention may make
great alterations. Should they, however, retain
the bill of rights, I know too much of the politi
cal wisdom of that body, to attribute their doing
to aconvidion of the " fafety and wisdom"
of the measure. I shall rather think it done in
Border :o accommodate the constitution to the pre
judices of the more ignorant and unenlightened
part of the community.
„ ~ Hl - °, au "'fi { he r "?"< d Sta '" circulates in ever), tan of
he Union—bet"* honored b, Juhfcrliers in Georgia, South and North
Carolina, Virginm Maryland, Delaware, Pennfilvavia, A>fc. T er r n
Tn Th i'li UU, r Rho f e -'/ Majachufetts, Neio-Hanpffi
and Dtfir,lt of Maine, Canaaa, Europe, and the Weft Indies This ex'
tensive cmuktion renders it a proper vehicle for Advertisements
of a general, commercial and governmental import-.—By the particular
desire and advice, therefore, of a number of its patrons, this fiafier
, ritept'onof advert,fements of the above defriLL ■
which as they will convey intelligent of an intei efling nature the Ed,'
tor hotes their ,nation will meet the approbation of his friends in
the Gar tt ,'i ""J? I'"" """""" " w " "">»<> P"ge in
the GazctL. they zuiU be nven ir: 2 Sufp{;jn:rt. JOHN FEN NO
-328-
A PHILADELPHIAN.
PRICE CURRENT. NEK-YORK.
JANCJAP
JAMAICA Spirits, afo-a 5/6
Antigua Rum, 4/9. a 5/
in. Croix, do. 4f\. a 4/8.
Country, do- 2/1 o. a 3/.
MolafTcs, 2f\. a qJ 5.
Brandy, 5/9. a 6f
Geneva, '5/
Do. in cases, 28/ a 2gf.
Muscovado Sugar, BcJ. a 7?f.
Loaf, do. I^3.
Lump, do.
3/3 r
Pimento, if.aify.
Coffee, 1/7. a tfS.
Indigo, (Carolina) 3f. a6f
Do. French, 18f.
Rice, 21 s.
Superfine Flour, 49/!
Common do. \ 9 f a 44/•
Rye do. 2sf. a 26/.
Indian Meal, 18f.
Rye, 4/9. pr. bujh.
Wheat, 9J3 a gf6.
Corn, (Southern) 4f
Do. (Northern,) a 4 f6.
Beef, firft quality, 4,5 f. a 48\f.
Pork, firft quality, 7of. a 7 $f
Oats, 1/7. I
Flax-feed, 5/9 a 6f
Ship bread per cwt. 21/
Country refined > ?) ,
bar-iron, ) 0
Do. bloomery, 251. a 261.
Swedes do. 451.
RufTia do. 301.
Pig-iron, 81 xof a 91.
German steel, pt r lb. 9/
Nails American, by calk. ) , . j
per. lb. 4 d. J 'V-
Do. do. do. 6d. i2d
Do. do. do. Bd. 9hjd.
Do. do. do. lod.
Do. do. do* i2d.f .in, 1
Do. do. do. 2od.r
Do. do. do, 24d.)
Pot a(h, per ton, 391. a 401.
Pearl ash, 481 a 501.
Bees-wax per lb. 2/2. a 2/3.
Mackaiel per barr. 96f a 30f.
Herrings, 18/
Mahogany, Jamaica, ) .
per foot, J
Dominico, do. 9d.
Honduras, do. 7d.
Logwood unchipped,pr.ton. 81.
Do. chipped. 141.
2 inch white oak ) . r
plank, perm. {10 XO J'
1 inch do. 51.
2 inch white pine plank, 81.
inch do. 61. 10f.
1 inch do. 31. 10f.
2 inch pitch pine do. 101.
inch do. 61. 1 of.
1 inch do. 41.
Pitch pine scantling, 31. Bf.
Cyprus 2 feet shingles, 11. iof
Do. 22 inch do. 11. 8/7
Cedar 2 inch do. il. 10/
ADVERTISEMENT.
is hereby given to all the Creditors
-L of Thomas Eaton, Willtam Pells, Ja
bez Sayrs, Anthony Sayrs, and George
\V elch, Insolvent Debtors, now confined in the
common goal of Newark, in the county of Efl'ex,
and State of New-Jersey, that they arerequefted
to appeal on Monday the Twenty Second Day of
I ebriiary next, at Nine o'clock in the forenoon
ol find day, at tlieCourt-Houfe in Newark afore
taid, before the Judges of the Inferior Court, and
fliew cause, if any there be, why an affignmentof
the above Insolvent Debtor's Estates should not be
made, and they the Insolvents be difchareed a
greeable to law.
Thomas Eaton, William Pells, Jacob Sayrs,
Anthony Sayrs, George Welch.
Newark, j Bth January, 1790. w _ t _
WILLIAM TAYLOR,
Has for. Sale, at his EAST-INDIA GOODS STORE,
No. 4, Burlinc-Slip,
Aflortment of EAST-INDIA GOODS.
„ nn „ , A mon g which arc following Articles ;
BOOK Muslins 8-4 6-4 5 - 4 || HUMHUMS,
Jackonet do. Long Cloths,
Hankerchicfsjof various kinds,|l Caflas,
£ h,n ' zes > II Seersuckers,
Ginghams, y B ogl,pores.
™' Variet y Of handforne painted MUSLINS.
VV ~h many other Articles, which will be fold by the Piece or
Package, low for cafli.
And a tew pair large bandfome Cotton COUN*
TERPANES, much warmer than Blankets.
JANUARY 9, 1790. j f
BOSTON STAGE.
""pHE subscriber informs the public, that having contraaed to
carry ti c public mail in the fiagefronf New-York to Boftoo,
ror tne year 1790—commencing January the firft to go twice a
V u M j y ' andthrce times a week from firft May
r . ovember, and to employ a person to go thro' with the
f a A )? • l r' He en & a S es that this conductor (hall tran
latt all private bufincfs committed to him witfi fidelity at a rea
otiaj l ommiflion—he will carry bundles, money,newfpapers,
i v .v "J ay • every w ednesday and Saturday Evening
in . ew-York, at fraunces Tavern, in Boston at the fubfcribei*
Houie, m Hartford at Frederick Bull's, Coffee House.
lour active men are now engaged as Conductors, who have
g.vcn bonds for the faithful discharge of.their trull.
January, 1790. LEVI PEASE.
$dT The Bojlon, Albany, and Philadelphia Stages now put up a
tranncet favert,. Cortiavdt- Street.where br (Tender 5 u>W phase to apply
Published by JOHN FENNO, No. o, Maiden
-1 "«»-the Ofwt S o-Markct, New-York — [ 3 J»I. *r. a» ]
Y 23. Dollars at &.
Do. 22 inch do. il. 6/.
Do. 18. inch do. 18/"
Butt white oak staves,
Pipe do. do. 9).
Hogftuad do. do. 61. icf.
Do. do. heading, 81.
Irish barrel do. staves, 3).
Hogftu-ad red oak do. *1. e r
Do. French cfo. 3).
Hogshead hoops, 4!.
Whitcoak fquarc timber )
per square foot, $ *'
Red wood, per ton, 28!.
Fuftick, loh
Beaver, pe r lb. if. a \6f.
0 t rper {kin, qf. 39r
Grey fox, 4/7.
Martin, 4 so.
Racoon, 3f6 a-J6.
Mufkrat, lod. a \id.
Beaver hats, 64 f.
Castor do. 48f.
Chocolate, 14 d.
Cocoa, 70/ a Bos
Cotton, lfg.
Tar, pr. bar. irf, a itK
Pitch, 16/ J
Turpentine, iS).H2of
Tobacco, James River,
Do. York, 4d. a 3id. *
Do. Rappahanock, Vd a 3\d.
Dr>. Maryland,coloured, s£«/.
Do. Western-shore, 2d a
Lead in pigs, pr cwt. 6of.
Do. bars, 68f.
Do. Shot, 68/7
Red lead,
White do. dry, 95/
White do. in oil, 5 /.
Salt-petre hams, 7£d.
Spermaceti candles, 3/7
Mould do. nd. a \J\
TalMw dipt, §£/.
Soap, a Bd.
Castile soap, 9*/. a 10d.
Engl Ifn cheese, pr. lb.
Country do. $d.
Butter, if
Hyson tea, i\f. a \if „
Sequin do. 6f6.
Boheado. 2/6. a 2/8.
Ginseng, 3 [ a 4 /fi.
Starch Poland, yd.
SnufF, 2 J 3 .
Allum fait, water mea- ) .
sure, pr. bu(h. J
Liverpool do. %J.
Madeira widc, > , , ,
pr. pipe, \ 60/ " a 9°*'
Port, 46/.
L.fbon pr, gal. cj.
1 cneriff, 4f.
Fy»", 3/3.
Uutch gun-powder,pr. cwt. 8/.
Nail rods, pr. ton, 36/.
Lintfeed oil, pr. gal. 4f
Whale do. pr. barrel, 50f as6f.
Spermaceti do, 61.
Shake-down hhds. 3J6