[No. LXXIX.j
the tablet.
No. LXXIX.
»< Nothing should be thought cheap, that badly an
fivers the end for which it is defigntd."
(Continuation from the last number.)
" A MOTHER great inconvenience to which
J\ our schools are fubjed:, and one that
will render the benefit of anyfchool very trifling,
is that they confill of too many scholars. People
suppose that by supporting a few schools, they
may all reap the advantage with little expence.
They do so. Their advantage is proportionate
to the expence. The expence is trifling, and so
is the benefit. It is utterly impossible tor a man
to take proper care of leventy or eighty fcholais
at once. Thirty is a large number ; and if a
teacher understands his business, children will
be educated cheaper, if there are nevermore
than twenty or twenty five pupils under the
charge of one inftru<ftor. It is true, a man may
hear an hundred children read, in half a day, it
he proceeds as is customary with many Ichool
masters. It is a practice not uncommon with a
mailer, who cannot attend to all the children
hiinfelf, to set the higher clafles to overlook the
lower. These subordinate guides, as is general
ly the cafe, when fniall folks bear rule, afluine
an haughty air of authority, and teach the chil
dren to hate the inftrutfors much fafter than to
love or learn their leflbn. Great numbers are
directed to read at once, and it is impofhble to
know whether they proceed right or wrong. As
for those that can read, they are bid to take a
chapter in the bible, and hurry it over with as
much rapidity as possible ; for he that can read
the fafteft and miss the leatt, is kept at the head
of the class, and accounted the best fellow. Thus
a class of twelve or fifteen ftholars is dispatched
in about eight or ten minutes : perhaps indeed
not much vvorfe, but very little better, for all
they read.
" A matter should attend to each lcholar in
particular, and tell them how to pronounce, and
where to lay the emphasis, and not fuffer them
to hurry over a paflage, without any direction,
as is too often the caf». A matter ought also to
be particularly industrious to excite the emulati
on of his scholars and make them fond of ttudy ;
for unless they do it chearfully, they will not
learn at all. It is my serious opinion that, when
1 was a school-boy, the greatett part of the scho
lars did not employ more than an hour in a day,
either in writing or reading ; while five hours of
the school time was spent in idlenefs —in cutting
the tables and benches to pieces—in carrying on
pin-lotteries, or perhaps in some more roguish
tricks. The reason of such mifpenfe of time
was, that they had nothing to excite them to ap
plication : A matter would perhaps reason with
his scholars, telling them they had better be di
ligent, aud if they were not, they would be sor
ry some time or other. But children are too
youn<* to attend to such advice ; and so long as
their future interest is the only motive they have
to learn, they will never learn at all. And to
chattife them and force them to learn, is a more
vain and fruitlefs attempt still. So long as chil
dren drag along under the lash ot a matter s rod,
without any delight in books, they will never
improve much under the belt inttrucflions. But
once hold up to their view some alluring objed,
Something that will ttrike the fancy, books are
then a pleasure ; the matter finds an easy talk and
the child makes rapid improvement. Some tri
fling gratuities, on quarter-day, or something
of that kind will do more to engage children to
be diligent and make them fond of books, than
all the reasoning in the world, or ten thousand
rods of correction.
" There is a great advantage attending dialogue
speaking, which is, that it teaches them to read
and speak with propriety. The perfection of
reading is to do it naturally. Every word should
be fpokea as if thefpeaker was himfelf the author.
Here then is another eflential and obvious de
feat in the present method of education. Pro
nunciation of words, as taught in our schools, is
wretched. All propriety is dettroyed with re
fpettto reading agreeable to the sense and mean
ing. It is as eaf vat firft to teach children right
as wrong. There is no inherent propensity which
induces children to pronounce words wrong and
read with a monstrous tone : But such things,
either taught or indulged in youth, grow up in
to inveterate habit, which it is often impo 1 e
to remove. (Ts be concluded in the next number.)
EXTRACT.
CATO was the tosy of the age in which he
lived.—C/ESAR on the other hand was the dar
ling of the people, and whig of his country
How ftrangeiy sentiments are altered.
WEDNESDAY January 13, 179°-
FROM THE INDEPENDENT GAZETTEER.
MR. PRINTER,
Tour giving the following a place in your afeful pa
per, may be of public utility.
IN the year i 774, the Society of London insti
tuted for the encouragement of arts, manu
factures, and commerce, took, the fubje(ft of in
variable measures into serious consideration, and
offered a reward of one hundred guineas to any
person residing in any country whatever, who
should discover and communicate to the Society,
on or before the third Tuesday in March, i 77S>
a mode whereby to obtain invariable standards
for weights and measures, communicable at all
times and to all nations; but the liberal encourage
ment thus held out to the public, was not produc
tive of a single attempt —therefore the fame en
couragement was repeated the following years,
viz.in 1776,1777, and 1778, in consequence thereof,
011 the third Tuesday in March 1779, fi v e plans
were presented to the Society, amongst which
number, that by Mr. John Hatton, Watch-maker,
in London* was the most approved, though not
perfected to that degree of accuracy required in
the constitution of invariable measure. How
ever, as the idea was new, and appareatly caPa
ble of being carried to a much greater degree of
perfection, the Society, in consideration of its
merits, and as some encouragement to reconfidei
the fubje<t, presented him with thirty guineas,
and they also renewed their former encourage
ment.—Several years elapsed, and no Iteps weie
apparently taken by Mr. Hatton, towards a more
effectual application of the princif les he suggest
ed. Mr. Hatton's plan has since been improved
by Mr. John Whitehurft, F. R. S. but his plan
was thought fubjeift to many inconvenience®, and
capable of improvement, so the encouragement is
still continued, which lias induced a citizen of
Philadelphia, to take up the matter, who has so
far Amplified and improved Mr. Whitehurft s
plan, that the whole conftru<tion of the appara
tus, and the method of uiingit is so eafy,that with
it, any peifon of common lenfe, may find three,
four, or five feet, with the greatefteafe and exact -
ness, by one single raenfuration. Now if any
legislative body, or society, in the United States,
think the discovery worth attending to, they may
receive further information by fending their ap
plication or address, (postpaid) to the Poft-Office
of this city, directed to S. W. M. Philadelphia,
if 110 application is made within three months
from the date hereof, the inventor will conclude
that the Americans tnink it not an object worthy
of their notice, which will put him under the
neceflity of communicating it somewhere clfe.
Philadelphia, January 6, I 790.
{ROM THE HAMPSHIRE GAZETTE.
A correspondent has jurnijhed at with the following
authentic anecdotes, which may Jhew the unhappy
and melancholy tffcCls of intruding the education
oj youth to immoralperfons or grangers.
ANECDOTES.
A PERSON from Great-Britain lately arrived
in South-Carolina, and set liiinfelf up for a
school-master. For a few months he was employ
ed witli foine degree of caution. But his abilities
as a school-master were soon conspicuous in the
uncommon progress of his pupils. Withal he
aflumed the appearance of ltricft morals and ex
emplary piety and devotion. This, added to his
lingular diligence and attention to his school,
soon procured him the unbounded confidence of
the neighbouring gentlemen and ladies. His
school flourilhed with growing reputation. Un
der a pretext of imparting inftruAion to several
young ladies under his care, he frequently de
tained one and another of them singly after the
school was difmifled for the day. In this practice
he continued until he had seduced and abus
ed no less than five or fix of the unhappy chil
dren At length he made an attempt upon a
young girl of resolute virtue and daring fpint,
whom he solicited to a compliance with his un
hallowed lulls—She deeply resented the base fe
licitation. His paflions were inflamed by oppo
fition—he offered violence—he attempted by
force what he could not obtain by entreaty. She
resolutely and fuccefsfully repelled his attacks,
until at length watching her opportunity, lhe
e leaped at the door, and hastened by her terrors
soon reached her father's house. She immedi
ately unbosomed her foul to her parents and
wave them a detail of the school-master s vile at
tempt. The father, by vigorous struggles frno
thered his resentment, until he had collected the
fathers of the young ladies in the school. io
them he opened the villainous affair, and ac
quainted them with the matter's long P ra( ? 1 " of
detaining their daughters singly in the school.
The parents agreed to make enquny
X Publ'tjhed (/ti Wednesday and Saturday .J
daughters.—Upon enquiry no less than five or fix
found that their daughters either by infinuarion,
threatning or force, had been overcome and de
based. Fully ascertained of the fadts, they re
solved upon the punishment of the culprit in a
summary manner—in a manner ditflated by the
nature of the crime. They made sharp their
knives, went in a body to the fcliool house, or
dered home the children, set the wretch's crimes
in order before him, and then castrated him on
the spot, and left him to his own reflexions. In
the following night he crept into a neighbouring
wood, and the next day died. Such was the u
niversal odium and detestation of his brutal luffc
and perfidious hypocrisy, that the voice of jus
tice made no enquiry after the authors of his
punishment.
A recent instance of the public execution of a
school-matter, aftranger, in the county of Wor
cester, convicted of a rape upon a young girl in
his school—And a third instance of a British fo
reigner, who eloped with another man's wife,
and married her, and set up a school in a town
in this vicinity, and was detected in attempts
upon the young girls in his school. These are
admonitions fufficient to all parents not loft to a
sense of decency, family purity and reputation,
never to employ a stranger, much less an immo
ral profligate, and a hag-beaten debauchee, in.
the government and inftru&ion of their beloved
offspring.
FRANCE.
LIEGE, OCiober 22.
THE letter sent by hisHighnefs the Princeßifli
optotheftates, in answer to their register,
touching the fundamental points, is couched in
the following terms .
" Sirs, ,
" YOUR dispatch of the 13th inft. I have re
ceived ? and itis withfenfibility and regret that I
behold the spirit of violence and fear which reigns
in all the deliberations at Liege, which more
and more juftifies the part 1 have taken in with
drawing from my usual residence. I know that:
the regiller which was sent me by my Chapter was
not agreed to by the majority of the capitulary
fuffrages ; a thing absolutely necellary in affairs
ofthe highest importance, it being by no means
fufficient that the members present decide mattfcrs
of consequence without the concurrence of those
who are obliged to be absent. If all this is con
sidered, and due regard paid to the Emperor's
mandate ofthe 27th of August last, in which his
Majesty dictates what lam to do, and from which
(as a vaflal) I cannot depart, I do not fee that I
can be required to fan<ftion whatpalfes at Liege,
till the constitution, good order, peace, with pub
lic and private security, are restored, and before
my three estates are legally composed and aflem
bled, I pray God to diredt and keep you under
his holy protection.
NATIONAL ASSEMBLY;
Tuesday, October 13.
Monsieur de Caftellanne having recalled to the
memory of gentlemen their resolution on the
rights of man, by which they had declared than
no man could be arretted or detained but by A
legal process, said that he had imagined that all
the Baftiles of France having been destroyed,
and ministerial despotism confounded in their
ruins, every citizen illegally imprisoned, had
been restored to liberty : but that to his greac
surprise he found there wereftill prisons, where
the victims of arbitrary power were confined—
Such places, he said, could not be fuffered to
exist, without bringingdifgrace upon the Nation
al Afl'embly. He then moved the following re
" The National Aflembly commands, that all
persons driven into exile, or imprisoned by any
orders whatever of the executive power, shall be
set at liberty. ,
" That in consequence of this, an address be
presented to his Majesty, requesting that he will
be graciously pleased to fend orders to the com
mandants of all fortreffes, to enlarge all such
persons as fliall be found to be confined without
due authority of law ; and that the Lord-Keeper
do examine the cases of such others aS,
been legally condemned, may be objedts of thac
mercy which it is his Majesty's prerogative to
The Count de Clermont Tonnerreand Mr. Tar
get warmly supported the motion. As did also
The Reverend Mr. Gregoire, who, to give
greater extent to it, moved, by way of amend
ment, that the absurd power granted bytheedift
160;, to Bishops, by which they are authorised
to lhut up in the Episcopal prisons any of their
clergy, who ftiould have transgressed the rules of
a clerical life, be abolished.Monsieur de Foncault contended, that such a
power was neceflary to a Bishop, and that with
out it lie could not maintain difciplineamong his
clergy. Discipline was asneceffkry in the church
as in the army. Hehimfelf, he said, had been
confined more than four times by his fuperiorof
ficer, for breaches of discipline.
Several other amendments were propofed,fuch
as that the alinoft nuin berlefs houses of correction
in Paris, and which defpotifin formerly peopled
«it pleasure, should be converted to other purpo
ses.—And alfotl at persons confined for lunacy,
and those who having been condemned to death
by law, had obtained lettres de cachet to remove
them to other places of confinement, and thus
rescue them from an ignominious death, should
he excepted from the benefit of this resolution.
The furtherdifculfion of the resolution was at
last adjourned.
*
OXFORD, November 9.
On Monday morning about lour o'clock, the
large oak situated at the entrance of Magdalerf
College, Water Walks, suddenly fell down; The
wind was not very boiilerous ; but the late rains
had so moistened the ground, that the small re-<
mains of the roots (moit of which were decayed)
were not fufficicnt to hold it. Among the dirt torn
up with the root, were found an ancient spear.
and a couple of arrows. By the college records
this tree appears to be upwards of three hundred
years old, and measured near eight feet in the
girth. Under this venerable oak the celebrated
Mr. Addifon, while Fellow of Magdalen college,
meditated many of his papers in the Spectator.
LONDON, Odlober 28.
The Imperial armies have in three weeks ob
tained five important victories, madethemfelves
roasters with little bloodshed, of a fortrefs deem
ed'almofl: impregnable, the key of European
Turkey on the German frontiers, and reduced
the provinces of Beflabaria, Wallachia, Bosnia,
and Servia ; and there is not a strong fortrefs, nor
a powerful army to (top their progress to Con
stantinople. Perhaps, early in the next cam
paign, Laudolin may at the gates of that capital,
ditfc.ite peace ; and the Porte may be compelled,
by the cession of its European territories, to pur
chase the fafety of its Asiatic Empire.
The Emperor's troops in Ghent finding the
patriotic army was marchingto take poflelfion of
the town, ordered the town gates to be shut and
that none should be permitted 10 go in or out,
except waggons with provisions on market-days.
A number of the patriotic troops concealed thetn
felves in the provision waggons, and when they
got within the gates seized on the ceritinels, and
opened a paflage for all the patriotic troops to
enter ; they immediately laid siege to the gar
rison which they got poflelfion of in about J
or 6 days : a great number of lives were loft,
and about one half of the town destroyed :—
Bruges was seized on and taken poflelfion of in
a few hours, by the patriotic army (having col
lected themselves in one body) which went and
laid liege to Bruflels.
4 laudable Example.—Mr. T. Bradford, late an
Tipholflerer atDoncafter, a few years ago became
a bankrupt ; but from a return of fortune, on
Tuesday last, by public advertisement, he con
vened his creditors, and not only paid them near
20001. but, with other friends, gave then an ele
gant entertainment. The bells of the church were
rung, and the day concluded with the greatest
liannony.
NEW-YORK, JANUARY 13, 1790.
CONGRESS.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES, JANUARY g, , 79 0.
Mr. CLYMER took his feat this day.
A letter from the Secretary of the Treasury
was read, informing the House, tha; agreeable
to their resolution of 21ft Sept. he had prepared
a report, refpecfting the Finances, with a plan for
the support of the public credit, andrequefted to
know at what time the house would please to
receive the fame.
The time, and manner of receiving this commu
nication, was made a" fubjed: of debate. It was
contended by some members that there was the
greatest propriety in the Secretary's delivering
it in peri'oll, and giving a verbal explanation of
the (everal parts—as it could not be supposed
that the members could fully comprehend a sys
tem so various and complex, without its being ac
companied with an explanation : That subjects
of this kind are in their nature intricate—the
House would want information, andmuft wish to
receive it from the bell source.
A resolution was proposed that the Report
fhonldbe received on Thursday next, accompan
ied with such reasons and explanations as might
he necedary, slated in writing. After some fur
ther conversation, in which the personal appear
ance 0 f t i le Secretary on the floor of the House
was alternately objected to, and contended for,
the followingrefolution, infubftance, wasadopt
ed, vi z .' " That on Thursday ne*t this House
" will receive, in writing, the report of the Se
" cretary of the Treasury Department, agreea
" bleto the order of the 21ft Sept. last."
The order of the day beingcalled for,the House
went into a committee of the whole, 011 The Pre
sident's Speech—
Mr. Baldwin in the Chair,
—and adopted the following resolution :
Resolved, as the sense of this committee, That
an address be presented by the House toThePre
dent of the United States, in answer to his Speech
to both Houses, with aflurances that this House
will, without delay, proceed to take into their
serious consideration the various and important
matters recommended to their attention.
This resolution being agreed to by the House,
the following gentlemen were appointed a com
mittee to prepare the address, Mr. Smlth, (S.C.)
Mr. Clymer, and Mr. Lawrance.
Mr. Ames introduced a petition of Christopher
Saddler, of Nova-Scotia, stating, that his veflel
and cargo had been seized at the port of Boston,
for a breach of a law of the United States, of
which he was, at the time, ignorant—and pray
ing relief : Laid on the table.—Adjourned.
MONDAY, JANUARY 11.
Mr. Hathorn, Mr. Trumbull, and Mr.
Moore, took their feats this day.
Mr. Boudinoi of the committee appointed to
enquire into the unfiniihed business of the last
session, brought in a report, which was read, and
laid on the table.
On motion of Mr. Ames, the petition ofChrif
topher Saddler was read a second time, and re
fered to the Secretary of the Treasury.
Mr. Smith, (S.C.) from the Committee ap
pointed to prepare an Address in answer to The
President's Speech, presented a report, which be
ing read, it was voted, That the House would to
morrow resolve itfelf into a Committee of the
whole, to take the into consideration.
Mr. Goodhue, of the Committee appointed
the last session, to prepare a Census, or Enumer
ation of the inhabitants of the United States, en
quired, whether it is considered that the commit
tee then chosen, is now in existence—is it is, he
moved, I hat more effectually to answer the ob
ject of their appointment, the Committee should
be enlarged, to confili of a Member from each
State.
Mr. Smith, (S. C.) observed, that the several
matters recommended to the consideration of the
House in The President's Speech, are obje<fts of
more immediate attention—suggested the pro
priety of appointing Committees to take them
refpe&ively into consideration, and accordingly
moved, That the House fhouldgo into a Commit
tee of the whole.
Several gentlemen observed, that it would be
perhaps more proper to wait for those communi
cations to which The Prefideiit referred in the
Speech.
Mr. Goodhue suspended his motion, till the
House should decide on that made by Mr. Smith
—which being put, was not adopted.
Mr. Goodhue then rose to enquire, Whether
it is considered that the unfiuifhed business of the
last session, should be taken up in the stage in
which it was left, or de novo.
This enquiry occafionedconfiderabledifcuffion.
—Many of the members spoke on the occasion
The Speaker said, that it had' been cuftoinary in
the legislative aflemblies with which he had been
connected, to continue the business from one ses
sion to another, during the time for which the
members are elecfted—but it appeared that this
was not ftricftly consonant to parliamentary ufaae
and as the fubjecfl is of very great importance'
and different sentiments are entertained by gen
tlemen, it appeared neceflary that the House
should come to a decision upon it.
Mr. Livermore, adverting to the necessity
and importance of the two Houses' adopting si
milar rules of conduct, proposed that a commit
tee fh juld be chosen 011 the part of the House
to confer with a committee on the part of the
Senate > to determine on a uniform system to be
adopted by both Houses.
Mi. Pace, Mr. Lee and Mr. Smith were se
verally of opinion, that the business of the last
session could not with propriety be taken up in
the present, in the situation in which it was
then left.—They contended that it should be en
tered upon de novo—As on the contrary supposi
tion, questions of the highest importance to the
peace and happiness of agreatpart of the Union
nught be resumed, and determined, in the early
part of the session, iu a very thin House, and by
a finall majority of a bare quorum of members —
The extensive territory which is represented—the
great cliftance, from which most of the membei s
came—all concur in favor of taking up the bufi
nefsanew.
Mr. Clymer observed, that Congress by chu
ling a committee to enquire into, and report the
unfimfhed business ofthe last session, plainly indi
cate that they do not consider that business as
dead—for if it had been so considered it wasab-
Jura to appoint such a committee
m r «- R AN 'I E ra l C !> thac whe » lhe b «finefs of
thelalfc fefiion, should ccme before either House
it lay with them to determine in what manner
they should proceed with refpedtto every article.
He objedled to the appointment of a committee.
The motion for a committee was put and ne
gatived.
It was then moved that a committee of ten be
appointed to bring in a bill for the a<ftual enume
ration of the inhabitants of the United States
which passing in the affirmative, the following
members were appointed, viz.
Mr. Foster, Mr. Clymer,
Mr. Goodhue, Mr. Seney,
Mr. Sherman, Mr. White,
Mr. Lawrance, Mr. Smith,
Mr. Schureman, Mr. Baldwin.
A meflage from the President of the United
States, by Mr. Secretary Lear, was received
with the following communications. '
United States, Jan. ir, 1790.
Gentlemen of the House of Representative/
I HAVE directed Mr.Lear,iny private Secretary
to lay before you a copy of the adoption and rati
fication of the Constitution of the United States
by the State of North-Carolina, together with
the copy of a letter from his Excellency Samuel
Johnfton, President of the Convention of said
State, to the President of the United States.
The originals of the papers which are here
with tranfinitted to you, will be lodged in the
office of the S ecretary of State.
G. WASHINGTON.
Fayetteville, State cf North-Carolina, 4th De
cember, 1789.
SIR,
BY order of the Convention of the people of
this State, I have the honor to transmit to you
the ratification and adoption of the Constitution
of the United States by the said Convention in
behalf of the people.
With sentiments of the highest consideration
and respect, I have the honor to be, Sir your
mofl faithfol and obedient servant, '
(Signedj SAMUEL JOHNSTON, '
President of the Convention,
To the President of the United State/.
I DO certify the above to be a true copy
from the original.
TOBIAS LEAR, Secretary to the
President of the United States.
A copy of the adoption and ratification of the Con
flitution of the United States, by the State of
North-Carolina.
STATE OF NORTH-CAROLINA.
IN CONVENTION.
WHEREAS the General Convention which
met in Philadelphia, in furfuance of a recom
mendation of Congress, did recommend to the
citizens of the United States, a Constitution or
form of government in the following words, viz.
" We the people," &c. {_Herefolloms the Con
stitution of the United States, verbatim
Resolved, That this Convention, in behalf of
the freemen, citizens and inhabitants of the State
of North-Carolina, do adopt and ratify the said
Constitution and form of gavernment.
Done in Convention, the 11 J! day of November, 1789.
(Signed) SAMUEL JOHNSTON,
President of the Convention.,
J. Hunt, ? o , •
J. Taylor, | Secretaries.
BY the diredHon of the President of the United
States, I have examined and compared the forego
ing with the adoption and ratification of the Con
stitution of the United States, by the state of
North Carolina, which was tranfinitted to the
President of the United States, by Samuel John
iV e , ent Convention of said State, as
well as the transcript of the Constitution of the
United States recited in the said ratification,
which I certify to be a true copy.
TOBIAS LEAR, Secretary to the
President of the United States.
The house then adjourned till 11 o'clock, to
morrow morning.
TUESDAY, JANUARY 12.
° rde / I °/ tlle da y being called for, the Houfc
resolved itfelf into a Committee of the whole.—
Mr. Baldwin in the chair.
e report of the Committee appointed to pre
pare an Address in answer to The President's
Speech to both Houses, being read, the fame was
taken into consideration.
he Committee having discussed the several
pai ts of this Address, rose—and the Chairman re-
P°. e t . e f aine without amendments—which
• ein S a S ain rea d in the House, was adopted unan
lmoully. r
It was then moved, That a Committee be ap
pointed to wait on The President of the United
a es, to learn from him, at what time, and in
what place, he would receive this Address—Mr.
mith, (S. C.) Mr. Clymer, and Mr. Lawrance,
were appointed the Committee on this occasion.
A meflage from The President of the United
by the Hon. Gen. Knox, Secretary at
ar, was received—this being accompanied by a
minib e r 0 f confidential papers: The House order
ed the Doors of the Gallery to be shut.UNITED STATES.
PORTSMOUTH, Dec. 29.
SKETCH of the Proceedings of the Legi/latureofthis
State.
MESSAGE of His Excellency The President of
this State.
Gentlemen of the Honorable Senate, and
House of Representatives,
IT affords me the highest pleasure, to meet
you again in AfTembly to advise and consult with
you upon the affairs of the State at a time when
so important matters will fall under your consi
deration. The public papers received since the
last session, will be laid before you by the Secre
tary, and among them, you will find many aits
and resolves of Congress which will require your
deliberations ; among others, it is of consequence
to consider the proposal of the Federal Govern
ment, to take under their care the fuppoi t of
the Light Houses upon the conditions therein men
tioned" and determine what territory, and whe
ther any ihall be ceded to the United States :
Also to consider upon the expediency of parting
alaw impowering the United States to confine
their prisoners in the prifonsof this State.
Perhaps it maybe thought worthy of your at
tention to take under confederation the present
Excise Ait, and determine how long it ought to
be continued: And whether the duties ought to
be leflened, on account of the import now drawn
by the United States.
It may be of importance to have an inquiry,
■whether any of the exifling laws of the State,
militate with, or are repugnant rotlie laws of the
United States, or the Constitution of the Fede
ral Government.
The amendments proposed by Congress to the
Constitution of the United States, cannot fail of
beino' considered and determined upon as early
as the nature of the business before you will ad
mit. Some other matters of importance will
from time to time, as they may be in readiness,
be communicated by private mefliiges. "
This beipg the season for granting the supplies
of the present year, that object cannot pals un
noticed.
Gentlemen,
I recommend to you unanimity and difpat6h,
and beg leave to aflure you, that I iball be very
happy in joining with you to promote and carry
into execution allthofe measures which may tend
to advance the good of our common country.
Given at the Council-Chamber in Port/.'mouth, the
lid day of December, 1789.
, JOHN SULLIVAN.
IN SENATE, December 2J.
VOTED, That Jofiah Gilman,jun Esq. Na
thaniel Parker and Nathaniel Gilman, Efq'rs. be
a committee to examine in the several offices of
this State for proper vouchers to authenticate the
accounts of this State against the United States,
andfurnifh John Taylor Gilman, Esq. one of the
Commiflioners, with them.
HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES.
This vote, after being read, was concurred
with this amendment, " that Nathaniel Parker,
and Nathaniel Gilman, Efq'rs. be the committee."
Voted, That this House joinin conferrence with
the Hon. Senate (if they fee fit) as soon as con
veniently may be, on the fubjett, " whether His
Excellency President SULLIVAN can constituti
onally continue in the Chair of Government while
he holds the office of Diftriit Judge."
HARTFORD, January 7.
We are informed, that at the general meeting
of the merchants of this state, convened at Mid
dletown on the 31ft ultimo, a petition and remon
ttrance to the general aflembly, for a repeal of
the excise law, was drawn up and unaninioufly
adopted, and is to be presented to the honorable
the legislature at their next session, by a deputa
tion from the feveraf counties in the state.
While we reprobate an a<t so ojjpreffive and
unequal in itsoperation, we cannot but be grati
fied that a body so refpetftable have adopted a
measure which tends to keep up the good harmo
ny and peace of the state.
They have likewise written to the Hon. Alex
ander Hamilton, Secretary of the Treasury, re
questing that light-houses might be erected and
buoys placed for the improvement and fafety of
the navigation of this and the neigbouring states.
Since the firft of September 1788, ten thousand
two hundred and seventy eight yards of woollen
cloth have been made at the woollen manufactory
in this city. It is with pleasure we add that this
manufactory is in a flourifhing state—sour thou
sand weight of fine wool has just come to hand
from Spain, which with what was before on hand
makes a large stock—A number of good workmen
are employed, and broad and narrow cloths of
various colours, fuperfine, midling and low priz
ed, are fold on as reasonable terms as they can be
imported.
Last Monday four fine salmon were caught in
the river just below this city.
FROM THE CONNECTICUT COURANT.
THE NEWS-BO Y'r ADDRESS TO HIS
CUSTOMERS.
BEHOLD, another year is past,
Full as important as the lall;
For TIME, like hares, our papers fay,
Conceives, and brings forth every day ;
Pregnant at once with dire distempers,
Conventions, Congress, and young Empires.
Four years employed th' American nation,
In nursing up the Confederation ;
A child of frame so weak and slender,
No Doctor's lkill could cure or mend her >
Doom'd to decay, in heCtic deep,
And leave all good old whigs to weep.
But soon a general States' Convention,
Withmuch lov'd Washington the bench on,
Proposed a federal gpvernment,
To all the States f<y their consent.
How did its foes with jealous ftrife,
Attempt to take the infant's life ;
Predict a tyrant's reign, and bawl,
That Freedom by the brat must fall !
Like Herod, who, to keep command,
Destroyed all children in the land,
Left a good Prince should fill the throne,
And scourge all knaveries with his own :
But Wisdom, which prevails o'er bawling,
Has fav'd the child from tory mauling ;
Given him a Guardian and Protector,
As wife as So lon, strong as Hector :
And Congress too, with powers extending,
Farther than patching work and mending ;
Have now begun, in Freedom'scaufe,
A code of energetic laws.
Have our papers every week,
Told you what Congress think and speak ?
That words and dogmas, fall like hammers,
When raging nowfpouts and itammers
How bawls in southern cause,
And tiresome hems and haws ?
How Old Dominion in a paifion,
Swears flie'll separate from the nation—
If government should not reside,
On Allegany's rocky fide ?
Such pati iotifm was never known,
From times of Brutus to our own :
For how can Congress rule the State,
With vast Kentucky's added weight ;
Unless in center borne alone
By huge American back bone ?*
North Carolinians too appear,
With State of Franklin in the rear,
Demanding Congress now Ihould fettle,
In woods, with Gougers, Creeks, and cattle :
For know you not, the time will come,
When Yankies, ftarv'd at home, will roam
To southern climes, to find good fare,
And then—your Congress' ready there ?
Have you not seen our CHIEF carefled,
In panegyric strains addrefled ?
In praise ginttely told t' his eyes,
He's gteateft, best, most just, molt wife ?
On stage high rais'd, like puppet <how,
T' amuse the gaping croud below ?
Now States, 'tis clearly prov'd at Boston,
Their sovereignty should in3ke the most on ;
Each State, in governor's opinion,
At home should rank before the Union ;
And should our President bur doubt,
We'll try the reasoning, force of gout.f
Have not our friends, acrofsthc Atlantic,
Found Freedom growing wild and antic ?
At haughty nobles rais'd her heel,
Aiid made all f>esher vengeance feel ?
Open'd the Baltile's dark recess,
Releas'd the victims from distress ?
Made tyrants fly before her arms,
And thioughout Europe spread alarms ?
All this, and more, we printers tell,
And hope this year to do as well.—
You'll hear, each week, what duty's laid,
To pay our debts, and help our trade ;
And if you'll pay the boy, he'll try,
Againftth' Excise to raise aery ;
That fraudfultax, which makes you swear,
To save your money, when you dare.
But this, all this, cannot be done,
Without a fee to help us run ;
Eor boys, like wheels, in constant toil,
Will lag and creak without the OIL.
notes.
* The Allegany mountains, so called.
+ Alluding to a reccntfatt.
MR. FENNO, |
I REQUEST you to re-publish the following Ex
tract, with the accompanying observations,
and oblige PETER.
From the review of the Debates of Congress, in the
' Analytical Review, or New Literary Journal,' J>ub
lijhed by J. John/lon, London.
' Their parliamentary forms, language and con
stitution, are nearly the fame, mutatis mutandis,
with those of the Britifti and Irilh parliaments :
but the fpiritandair that breathe in their speech
es are more candid, sincere and patriotic. The
several speakers, it is evident, are left under the
inßuence of prejudice and political faflion than
ours, and more open to convi<Sion.
' The free and republican spirit of America ap
pears in nothing more than in the toleration of
taking down the public debates in short hand.
This, if the British government shall verge, in
proccfs of time, towards republicanifin, will be
granted by our parliaments : If the genius of mo
narchy shall, on the contrary, overset the present
political balance, the gallery doors will not be so
cafily opened, and less indulgence will be extend •
ed to those who report debates on theftrengthof
memory.'
THE liberality of mind which dictated the
above, does honor to the human heart—The
publication of the debates of Congress, have
proved an unbounded source of information, in
ftrixftion and aniufevnent to the citizens of the
United States. And altho from the circum
stance of the novelty of the bulinefs, the various
fjeeches have not been so fully detailed, as some
persons have wished, yet upon the whole, more
perfect Iketches have perhaps never appeared in
any country, than many of the publications have
been, and the portraits of the speakers in gene
ral, have been held up to the view of the peo
ple thro this medium, in a very refpeiftable point
of light.—The National Legislature has been
identified, if the exprellion may be allowed, to
the mental eye of every citizen. The transaCti
ons of Congrels have been " open and abovtf
board." The voice of clamor has not been heard,
nor have insidious reproaches of intrigues, con
claves, and dark proceedings grated upon our ears*
—The people have without doubt* been led to
entertain the moil favorable and honorable sen
timents of the Representative body, whose en
lightened and candid policy has not only kept:
the doors of their Gallery open, but I'ufFered
their debates to be taken on the floor of the House
as a matter of course.—Such a privilege once en
joyed (like the precious blefling of freedom)
makes an indelible imprefiion on the mind; and
itwould be infinitely better not to have realized
the gratification, than, after having participa
ted it for a season, to be deprived of it for ever.
NEW-YORK, JANUARY 13,
Monday the legislature of this state convened in this city, pur
suant to adjournment : Not making a quorum, they adjourned
until twelve o'clock yellerday.
A CORRESPONDENT
Begs leave to observe.that nothing can be more
absurd than to pretend the least finiilarity between
the American Revolution, and the present Inlur
re<!tion in France. The one effeifled by the uni- 1
ted exertions of an opprefled people — The other
proceeding from the ebullitions of a frantic po
pulace, who always clamor against the Govern
ment in a time of fcai city, and return to admira
tion and submission upon an appearance of plen
ty ; who so far from being enslaved by LOUIS
THE SIXTEENTH, never experienced so mild
a reign, nor poflefled a Sovereign so truly deserv
ing the appellation of Father of his People. very
American ought to regret, that the gallant Mar
quis de la Fayette has fuffeied his disappoint
ment o£theMare/chal's llaff to induce him to head
those popular clamors. A knowledge of the hiC*
tory of France alone, without the spirit of pro
phecy, is fufficient to ascertain the event of the
present commotions. The few refpedtable cha
ra<slers that support the popular cause, will con
tinue to fall off, until the reaping of the har
vest ; when the disturbances will .cepfe, and the
Government be restored to its original form, un
less LOUIS THE SIXTEENTH fliall really de
sire to remit some of his privileges. The former
infurre<fiions have generally enhanced the pow
er of the Monarch, but it is not probable that the
pacific LOUIS, will accept any such acquisition.
Those who are called the PEOPLE of Paris are
perhaps the molt versatile of the human race—
generally a&uated by the mere impulse of the
moment, and after one great exertion return to
ease and imbecility. Massachusetts Centinel.
There is some how or other a strange propenfitv in many per.
sons to arraign the proceedings, depreciate the motives, and blast
the reputation of those who diftinguifli themselves by their exer
tions, and exemplary conduct on great occasions. This ti.fpofition
discovers itfelf, not only towards eminent chai afters, but whole
communities, and nations fall under the censure of such misan
thropists. Several writers have been unwearied in their endeavors
to lelTen the pleasure which the friends of humanity derive from
contemplating the profpeft which opens upon our illustrious allies
of obtaining a free conftittition. Their unparallelled facrifices—
that blaze of sentiment, that energy of thought, that justness o£
ideas, which characterize the proceedings of the National Assem
bly, animate the speeches and declamations of their patriots, and.
run through their truly nervous publications—that intrepidity
and firmnefs of their leadert, which asserts the long injured rights
of their country in the face of despotism—in {hort that all-perva
ding spirit of light and information; which has caught from mail
to man, and roused every great and noble principle of "the human
heart to action— all these and much more that might be mention
ed are but the transient ebullitions of an unconquerable versatility t
—and forfooth, because the people of France a century «go> wor
irr.pped thro ignorance a tyrant; the present fermentation is to
evaporate infumo ! but the cream of thejeft is, that the noble
aflertor of the Rights of Mankind, " in both Hemispheres,"
the hero of volunteers in the noblest of causes, the Marquis
de laFayette is actuated by chagrin and difappointraent, ia
his glorious undertaking to make his country free.
" Envy will merit, as its Jkaie pursue."
Is there achara&erin the Roll of American Worthies, against
whom the arrows v of malevolence have not been levelled at one
period or another ? But they recoil—and may they ever recoil ox&
tfie unprincipled traducers of patriotism and honor.
The/hit AJlrea, Capt* « we// at Zatavia in Augtijl lift.FROM THE CENT IN EL.
Ms. RUSSELL,
The following letter was received by the lajl pojl. The manifejl design of
it is to give information to the Citizens oj the United States on points
to whith mofl of them mufi be Jlrangers. Ido not know how better to
throw it before them t than by requeuing the printers to injert it in their
several paperr. B. L.
CENTLEMEN, Dec. ?, 1789.
f ~P , HE permanent residence of Congress hasfurnifhed so interest-
X inga fubjeft for debate, in the late fefliou of that honorable
body, as to juitify us in presuming that the individual citizens of
each State must feel themselves deeply concerned in the eventual
decision. Next to the great constitutional question, which so
lately agitated our minds, we conlider it as an object of the great
est importance to the present and future welfare of our country,
that ever called for a difcuflion in our national councils.
Such being the sentiments of the inhabitants of Alexandria and
George-Tow n, they have appointed us a committee to communi
cate with the principal towns in the Eastern States, on this inter
esting fubjeft ; and to give them an impartial and candid detail of
those circumstances, which in our estimation, render the Poto
mack the moll eligible situation in the Union.
In compliance with their wishes, we now beg leave to address
you; with the fulleft confidence, that a free and manly difcuflion
will never incur the censure of Americans. We are, however,
aware of the obje&ionsthat may be made to our representations on
the score of felf-intereft ; nor, will candor permit us to disown the
many advantages we (hall peculiarly derive from a decision in fa
vor of the Potomack—but, if they be found ftri&ly true, we hope
they will have their due weight, notwithstanding the motives to
which they may be attributed.
We presume it will be univerlally admitted as just, that the feat
of Federal Government ought to be fixed as near the centre of ter
ritory aspoflible ; since population and wealth are circumstances
as fluftwating and variable as the winds, and equally undeserving
of attention, if permanency is the objett. The expense which
will attend the erection of the necessary buildings, makes us hope
that this is meant. Some regard then ought to be paid to poster
ity, if a perpetual union is the wilh of all ; and to the hiftoryof
emigrations, that we may not have a fimiiar expence to encounter
in a Ihort time. That the river Potomack is nearer the centre of
the Union, than any other considerable river, and is more advan
tngeoufly situated for preserving an intercourse with the inhabi
tants of the Western Territory, none can doubt; when we recol
lect the anxiety the English nation felt thirty years ago, in confe
rence of the poffeflion of this extensive ana fertile country by the
French, we think ourselves particularly interested, from our great
er vicinity, in giving the inhabitants thereof no cause to complain.
The fafefy of all the Atlantic States requires the utmost attention
to the continuance ofthis intercourse ; as their independence and
separation from the Union would beget connexions highly dan
gerous to our existence. Presuming that the navigation, extent,
and productions of the Potomack are not well known to many of
your citizens, it may not be improper to give them a full and just
description thereof.
The Potomack empties into the bay of Chefapeak in latitude
37* 50* onc hundred miles above the Capes : From the mouth of
the river to Grorge-Town—the highest part to which navigation
is pra&icable for sea vessels—is one hundred and sixty miles; the
depth of water is from three and a half to fifteen fathoms ; the
breadth of the river is from one to twelve miles : The navigation
is more fafe and easy than that of any other river in the United
States, affording every where good anchorage,and fine harbors from
its numerous creeks.
Aveffel of twelve hundred hogsheads of tobacco burthen has
loaded at Alexandria, and one of seven hundred at George-Town.
The inland navigation is at present used twenty-four miles above
Fort-Cumberland : From thence to the Great-Falls is two hun
dred miles ; though it may be made navigable to the mouth of Sa
vage-Creek, eieht miles higher. The present land-carriage from
the mouth of Savage to Dunkard's Bottom, on Cheat-River, is
thirty-seven miles; from thence to the Ohio it is navigable ; but it
is very pra&icable to improve the navigation so as to reduce the
land carriage between the Potomac and Western Waters to only
seventeen miles. As a proof of the facility of the communication,
we apprehend the authority of Mr. Wa l pol e and his afTociates
in their answer to the report of the board of trade in England will
have some weight. Dr Mitchell too, who onoccafionof the
war between France and England, on account of the back coun
try, was employed by the Ministry to take an accurate survey of
all the country, and publifti a map in consequence thereof, accom
panied with a defcriptionof the country, agrees with those gentle
men, in proving the easy communication between the Eastern and
Western Country, when it was Icfs known than at present. Speak
ing of the Ohio, they fay, " The country is well watered by se
veral navigable rivers communicating with each other, and by
which, and a short land-carriage of only forty miles, the produce
of the Ohio can even now be sent cheaper to the seaport town of
Alexandria, on the river Potomack, (where Gen. Braddock's
transports landed his troops) than any kind of merchandize is at
this time sent from Northampton to London." And Mr. Jef
ferson, in his Notes on the State of Virginia, speaking of the
connection between the Atlantic and Western Waters, fays, " The
Potomack offers itfelf under the following circumstances tor the
trade of the lakes and the waters westward of lake Erie. When it
shall have entered that 1 ke, it must coast along its Southern ftiore,
on account of the number and excellence of its harbors, the North
ern, though shortest, having few harbors, and thole unfafe. Hav
ing reached Cayahoga, to proceed on to New-York, it will have
825 miles, and five portages : Whereas it is but 425 miles to A
lexandria,its emporium on the Potomack, if it turns into the Cay
ihoga, and partes through that, Big-Beaver, Ohio, Yohogany, (or
Monongahela and Cheat) and Potomack, and there are but two
portages ; the firft of which, between Cayahoga and Beaver, may
be removed by uniting the sources of these waters, which are lakes
in the neighborhood of each other, and in a champaign country.
The other, from the waters of the Ohio to Potomack, will be from
15 to 40 miles, according to the trouble which shall be taken to
approach the two navigations. For the trade of the Ohio, or that
which shall come into it from its own waters or the Miflifippi, it
is nearer through the Potomack to Alexandria than to New-York
by 580 miies, and is interrupted by one portage only.
There is another circumstance of difference too. The lakes
themselves never freeze, but the communications between them
freeze, and the Hudson's river is itfelf shut up by the ice three
months in the year ; whereas the channel to the Chefapeak leads
direttly to a warm climate—the southern parts of it very rarely
freeze at all, and whenever the northern do, it is so near the
sources of the rivers, that the frequent floods to which they aie
liable break up the ice immediately ; so that vessels may pass
through the whole winter fubjeft only to accidental and ftiort de
jays." From the mouth of Savage to the settlements in the Mhf
kingum, weft of the Ohio, is about 140 miles. A good road
between these places is now opening, if not completed; from
the Great-Falls to tide water, following the course of the river,
is fourteen miles, and by land only eleven ; from the Great-Falls
to George-Town, is also fourteen miles, and to Alexandria seven
teen, with good roads to each. The lands on the lower parts of
the Potomack produce tobacco, corn, wheat and cotton plenti
fully. The country above the falls is remarkably fertile, and
yields large quantities of hemp and flax, with the several articles
produced below except cotton ; the streams which empty into
the Potomack are many; the principal are Pflttevfon's Creek,
which falls into the Potomack ten miles below Fort-Cumberknd,
and is navigable twenty miles above its mouth ; the South-Branch,
seventeen miles below Cumberland, is navigable one hundred
miles : Cape-Capon, iixty miles below, is navigable twenty
miles. Conococheague, ninety miles below, is navigable twen
ty-four miles. Opecan, one hundred and five miles be ow, is
navigable twenty-five miles from its mouth, and within a ew
miles of Winchester, a flourifhing inland town. anarx
doah, one hundred and thirty miles below, may with a tmall
expence be made navigable for one hundred and lixty mites, an
is already used for a great part of that distance. The Monoca y,
one hundred and fifty miles below Cumberland, is navigable
thirty miles above its mouth ; this river is within two miles o
Frederick-Town in Maryland ; one of the largest inland towns in
the United States ; these several dreams pass through a country
not exceeded in fertility of foil or salubrity of air by any in A
merica, if any in the world ; perhaps no part of America can
boast of being more healthy than the Potomack in general ; and
we have been more aftoniftied at the objections which have been
made to fixing the feat of government on it, from a iuppolcd de
ficiency in khisrefpeCt, than any other ; the country is almott en
tirely high and dry, with plentiful streams of pure water through
out the whole extent of it: And are not these the principal cir
cumstances which conduce to health in every climate ? But we
ascribe the imputation to the general idea entertained of a southern
clime by the inhabitants of a more northern one, which is only
just with respeCt to the country adjacent to the sea-coast ; for it is
a faCt we believe well ascertained, that the upper country, even in
Georgia, the mod southern State, is extremely healthy. But wc
wjfh to refer you on this fubjeCl to numbers of your friends and
countrymen fettled amongus ; their health will prove the aHer
tion. The Berkely springs, or bath, is situated within a few
miles of this river, and frequented by the afflitted from all the
States, and much celebrated for its effeCts : Slate, marble, free
ftone of the red and grey Portland kinds, and iron ore may be
had in great abundance on the banks of the river ; indeed seve
ral iron works are already established thereon ; of coal too there
is «yi inexhaustible quantity near Cumberland, convenient to wa
ter carriage, from whence the towns in future may be tupplied—
With regard to fifh the ir plenty is too well known to require a
particular description ; fuffice it to fay that large quantities ol
herring and white hfli are annually exported to the Weft-Indies.
As to the defenfibility of the Potomack, we are of opinion no
river in America is capable of being rendered more secure : Iti
banks are every where high and bold, with the channel often
not more than two hundred yards from the (hore ; Digges's point,
about fix miles below Alexandria, and just above Pifcataway creek,
is remarkably well calculated for a battery, as all vefTels coming
up the river must present their bows to that point, for the distance
of three quarters of a mile ; and, after palling, their sterns are
equally exposed, for about the fame distance ; the middle of the
channel there is not more than two hundred yards from the point.
Having now enumerated the particular advantages of the Po
tomack, fuffer us to observe that the commerce of the river on
which the feat of government shall be fixed, will thereby be
greatly encreafed ; and propriety and justice seem to require that
the merchants of every part of the Union ftiould partake of the
advantages resulting from that circumstances, as equally as the na
ture of the cafe will admit. Upon the Potomack are but few
merchants of large capital, and but very little shipping; hence
the merchants to the eastward would have a fairer chance of sharing
in the trade of the metropolis, than could be expeCted, if the feat
of government should be fixed either on the Sufquehanna or De
laware, where the opulent and comparatively long established
towns of Baltimore and Philadelphia, furnifh merchants of large
capitals, ready and capable of seizing every advantage themselves,
and thus er.grofTing the whole commerce of these rivers. Besides,
we apprehend it to be an incontrovertible faCt that your produce
and manufactures would meet with a more ready market on the
Potomack, than on either of those rivers. The southern States
are too much engaged in raising valuable flaple commodities to at
tend to manufactures ; it will therefore be a long time before they
can rival you in this branch ; while the inhabitants of Pennsyl
vania have already made considerable progress in these arts. The
preference given by Britain to the commerce of the southern States
before the revolution was founded on this policy, that they inter
fered least with her manufactures : Ought not the fame motives to
influence you, who are anxious to supplant her with refpe&to the
articles with which she still continues to furnifh us ? When the
greater centrality of the Potomack is considered, we think this
circumstance ought to be decisive with you, in giving it the pre
ference we contend for. To us it appears evident that the produce,
manufactures and shipping of your country would be in much
greater demand on the Potomack, than any where else more to
the northward.
We accordingly request you to take the fubje& into your seri
ous consideration, and weigh maturely the merits of a plaee,
which besides its other advantages, presents the easiest communi
cation with our western brethren.
We are, Gentlemen, your obedient Servants,
Robert Peter, George Walker Jiejnard 0' Neill, Benjamin Stoddcrt,
William Deakins,jun. Gearge Gilpin, John Fitzgerald, Charles Simms,
David Stuart., Robert T. Hooe.
MR. FENNO,
The following was latch received from a gentleman in Bofton —The
plan appears to he fimple y and a real improvement —and as it includes
a provision for both sexes, its liberality and benevolence must recom
mend it to the friends of the rifng generation.
THE SYSTEM OF PUBLIC EDUCATION,
Adopted by the Town of Boflon, OElober 15, 1789.
I. r I there be one School in which the rudiments of
A the Latin and Greek, languages shall be taught, and schol
ars fully qualified for the Univerfitics. That all candidates for
admifTion into this School (hall beat lead ten years of age, having
been previously well inftru&ed in Englifti Grammar; that thev
(hall continue in it not longer than four years, and thai they have
liberty to attend the public writing Schools at such hours as the
visiting Committee (hall direst.
11. That there be one writing School at the South part of the
town : one at the Centre, and one at the North part ; that, in
these Schools, the children of both sexes be taught writing, and
also arithmetic in the various branches usually taught in the Town
Schools, including Vulgar and Decimal Fractions.
111. That there be one reading School at the South part of the
Town, one at the Centre, and one at the North part ; that, in these
Schools, the children of both sexes be taught to spell, accent, and
read both prose and veife, and also be inftru&ed in English Gram
mar and Composition.
IV. That the children of both sexes be admitted into the read
ing and writing School? at the age of seven years, having previous
ly rece/ved the inftruflion usual at Women's Schools ; that they
be allowed to continue in the reading and writing Schools till the
age of fourteen, the boys attending the year round, the girls from
the 20th of April to the 20th of Ottober following ; that they at
tend thefeSchools alternately, at such times, and lubjeft to such
changes, as the visiting Committee in confutation with the Masters
(ball approve.
V. That a Committee be annually chosen by ballot, to consist
of twelve, in addition to the Sele&men, whose business it (hall
be to visit the Schools once in every quarter, and as much oftener
as they (ball judge proper with three of their number at least,
to consult together in order to devise the best methods for the in
ftru&ion and government of the Schools ; and to communicate
therefultof their deliberations to the Masters; to determine at
what hours the Schools (hall begin, and to appoint play-days ;
in their visitations to enquire into the particular regulations of
the Schools, both in regard to inftruftion and discipline, and give
such advice to the Masters asthey (ball think proper ; to examine
theScholais in the particular branches which they are taught ; and
by all proper methods to excite in them a laudable ambition to
excel in a virtuous, amiable deportment, and in every branch of
ufet'ul knowledge
WILLIAM TAYLOR,
Has for Sale, at his EAST-INDIA GOODS STORE,
No. 4, Burlinc-Slip,
A General Aflortment: of EAST-INDIA GOODS,
Among which are the following Articles : .
BOOK Muslins 8-4 6-4 5-4 || HUMHUMS',
Jackonet do. ij Long Cloths,
Hankerchiefs,of various kinds,|l Calfas,
Chintzes, N Seersuckers,
Ginghams, H Boglapores.
A Variety of handsome painted MUSLINS.
With many other Articles, which will be fold by the Piece or
Package, low for cash.
And a few pair large harrdfome Cotton COUN
TERPANES, much warmer than Blankets.
January g, 1790. t. f.
PROPOSAL,
FOR PRINTING BY SUBSCRIPTION,
MEMOIRS
OF THE
BLOOMSGROVE FAMILY.
In a SERIES of LETTERS from a gentleman in New-England
to a refpettable citizen of Philadelphia.
CONTAINING
Sentiments on a MODE of DOMESTIC EDUCATION, fuitrd
to the present state of Society, Government and Manners in the
United States, and on the Importance and Dignity of the Female
Character.
INTERSPERSED WITH A
VARIETY of interesting ANECDOTES.
CONDITIONS.
They will be printed on a good paper and type—neatly bound
and lettered, in two volumes, 12mo. and delivered to fubferibers
at three quarters of a dollar per volume.
w These Memoirs are dedicated to Mrs. Washi ncton, by
her permijfion. Having seen the manuscripts, and approved the plan,
" She heartilv wilhes that every laudable effort to improve the
*' mode of education in this country may be attended with merit
j " ed success."
„ FROM the literary chara&er of the reputed author of
the above work, and a table of contents left with the printer here
of, being eighty-three letters on the most interesting fubje&s of
education, life and manners, it is expe&ed these Memoirs will
prove a very valuable and interesting performance.
Suhfcriptions received by the Editor, at his office, and letters (peji
paid J duly attended to.
ADVERTISEMENT.
EXTRACTS FROM THE JOURNAL OF THE OHIO COMPANY.
WHEREAS, in the opinion of the Agents, it is very much
for the interest of the proprietors at large, that all the
lands of the purchase should be divided and allotted as immedi
ately as may be—And in order to accommodate them generally,
by the option of clafling as they may think proper, and drawing
their rights or (hares (where they may possess more than one)
either together in contiguity, or by detaching and annexing them
to diftinft claflesor divisions (at their own ele&ion) to give them
the greater chance for variety in foil and (ituation—ltisunani
moufly refolved,That as foonas the exploring committee (hall have
appropriated the lands for donation fettlements,in quantity fuffici
ent for all the proprietors,Wi nth rop Sarcent,Joseph Gili -
man, and Return J. Meigs, Esquires, who are hereby appoint
ed a committee for that purpose,(hall immediately makeout,upon
a large fcale,a complete map or plan of the whole purchase from the
best information,which they may be then able to obtain,exprefling
all the lands of the eight acre, three acre, city lots and commons,
one hundred and sixty acre, and donation lots, the reserved lots
of Congress, school lots, and lots appropriated for religious pur
poses—also, the two townships given by Congress for an univerfi
ty,and the towns or situations for towns to be reserved by the com
pany for a future allotment.—That, all the residuary lands lhall
be, by them, the said committee of three, divided and numbered
upon paper, into forty equal grand divisions of twenty-five (hares
each, as like in quality as may be: That each grand division be
divided into five sub-divisions of five (hares each, and each sub
division into fettions of (ingle (hares :—That as soon as the map
or plan is completed, the agents will form or class their fubferib
ers (who (hall not previously class themselves) by fe&ions or Angle
shares, into sub-divisions of five, and grand divisions of twenty
five, and immediately proceed to drawing Vy lot for said lands;
by grand divisions, sub-divisions and feftions : That in all
draughts of sub-divisions (into fe&ions) which may be madeup ot
proprietors,holding four,three, or two and single (hares,it (hall be
the usage for the greatest proprietor, or holder of the greatest
number of (hares, to take his lands in contiguity, by lot, either ia
the southern or northern part of the sub-division, where they (hall
be numbered from north to south, and in the western or eastern
(by lot also) where they may be numbered from weft to east; and.
where fub-dirifions maybe made up of two proprietors of two
(hares each, and one of one (hare, the two greatest proprie
tors (hall receive their fc&ions, by lot, either in the southern or
western part of the sub-division. Resolved % Th3t the before na
med committee, be dire&ed to prepare the names and numbers,
and make all the necelTary arrangements for the intended draught:
That previous to the drawing for this ultimate grand division of
lands, there (hall be returns of the proprietors, as they may be
classed by the agents (or otherwise) lodged in the Secretary's office,
and it is recommended in all cases to consult the inclinations and
interests of the proprietors in the order of clafling.
Rejtlved, That the agents will give public notice of the time and
place of drawing, and that there be two perfonsno ways interest
ed in the draughts, who (hall be sworn to the faithfully drawing
out the names and numbers from the boxes, and who alone shall
be employed in this business for the draught of grand divisions,
sub-divisions, and feflions.
Resolved, That the Secretary cause the foregoing resolutions to
be published in the newspapers of New-York, and the New-
England States ; to the end that the proprietors at large may have
the option of clafling themselves as they may think proper : And
they are hereby requested so to do, and to express themselves
upon this fubjctl, cither to their refpe&ive agents, or by informa
tion in writing addreflcd to, and to be lodged with the Secretary,
at his office in the city of Marietta,previous to the firftMonday of
March, 1790 —Upon which day it is expe&ed the division will
take place. WINTHROP SARGENT,
Secretary to the Ohio Company.
Marietta, 3d November, 1789.
WANTED IMMEDIATELY,
AY OUNG LAD, of suitable character, to fervc
as an Apprentice to the printing Business.
Enquire of the Printer.
Published by JOHN FENNO, No. 9, Maiden-
Lank, ne«rtheOfwcgo~M*rkct t New-York.—[3dol. pr. an.]