■' 1' " ■■ ■ »l» 1 ■ ■■■ ■ m .. l .
A NAT.ON.II. lAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 34, NORTH FIFTH.STRErET, PHILADELPHIA.
[No. 128 of Vol. IV.]
FOR Tat GAZZTTE^
TO THE PEOPLE;.
f T"*HE disco very lately made in citycon-
X cerniog political writers is of a nature
so extraordinary that it should he understood
by every good citizen, for it may induce him
to examine with caution the invectives that
are dlfcharged every day from particular
prefTes against tire reputation of confidential
officers. The nation has observed with afto
nifhmeot during the last three months the tor
rent of abuse that has been poured out against
the President and the chief officers of govern-
ment. They have been treated as men who
deserve no confidence—men who are ready to
facrifice the fhfety and honor of the nation.
"When we enquire What is their crime, it cen
ters in the late proclamation. The Pi efident
issued that Proclamation, and the' Other exe
cutive officers have been uniformly endeavor
ing to preserve a ft rift neutrality ; hence
those complaints. Let lis travel along the
country from one end to the other ; acrOss it
from the sea coast to the wilderness, and the
general cry is u Peace, Peace ! Let us p're
ierve Peace and we shall be hapj»y." The
nation being thus disposed, how fhouid it hap
pen, that a great proportion of our political
writers should be furioufly clamorous and in
decently outrageous against the executive for
attempting to preserve the Peace ! This pa
radox will be fully explained by considering
that much noise may be made by a few indi
viduals, that a single factious citizen or a
stranger who is no citizen, by writing under
different fignattires may raise much dust and
loom, like an host of combatants. It should
also be coiifidered that in every city there are
men who are pleased with a conflagration ;
on every coast there are men who a<e pleased
with a shipwreck, and in every State there
are men who are pleased with wars and revo-
lutions, betau'e they may by those means have
an opportunity of plundering. To the c.a
motir that may be excised by factions citizens
we mufl add the peftftential meafores that
may l>e attempted by foreigners, and we
shall not be surprised that the thunder of op
pofitiou has seemed to (hake the foundations
of government. Whether we had bef't be the
dupes of forergn influence, whether we are in
capable of governing ourselves and have need
of wiser help, are queihons for the consider
ation of a serious hour ; tlie only thing to be
coiifidered at this hour is the clear and positive
pfoof we have received that foreigners are
interfering in the adminiftrafion of our go
vernment ; that they are attempting to turn
out some of the principal executive officers,
for 110 cause that we can discover, but be
cause those officers arc desirous to preserve
neutrality -and peace. Though our courts
have been somewhat Inrfulted, where ftridt
neutrality has been recommended by the
judges, we do not btar that any attempts
have been inside to funercede those judge l !,
probably because their places aie not to be af
fected by the breath of faftiott>
1 have intimated th\t their uniform endea
vors topfeferve peace is the reason why at
tempts are made to degrade and cashier our
executive officers. This is certainly the
ir;<« reason, for the ostensible reasons offered
by their political adversaries are so contempt
ible that 110 body in his sober senses can pass
them f.»r reasons. Two questions lately ap
peared in the General Adve-rtife-r addreiled to
" two great men, one a piece."—-The questions
were to the following import, viz. " Whether
" he, one of whose companions is a man who
" was employed by the French King to bribe
" the National Convention and Tan off with
" the motley is a proper-perjon lobe at the head
"oj the finances?" —•' What ihouid we think of
" a man to whom a late general officer in the
<l French army would dare to cry out in ex
" ultation, that St. Domingo was ruined.—
" Ji he not too much delighted in dejolatiun to di
" red a war f"
The reader (hould be informed that a
French gent'einan lately arrived in Philadel
phia, bringing with him large funis of money
tobe veiled in American lands. This gen
tleman brought with him letters of intro
duction from sundry refpeftable persons, he
had letters among orhors to the Secretary of
tlie Treasury, at whose house he was leen
two or three times, and with whom he then
and there conversed, for which reason, it
Teems, Hie Secretary ought to he cashiered
left he (hould rob theTreafiiry !
The reader fh'ould also be informed that
the Viscount dc Noailles,in conversation with
General Knox, with whom he served in the
late war, wds heard to exclaim emphatically,
St. Domingo h ruined,—The fays hexx
claimed but unfoi tunately for the
veracity of the querist the Viscount is known
to have extended to the unfortunate fuffercrs
of St. Domingo unequivocal proofs ef sympa
thy. Suck my fellow-citizens are the reasons
for which two executive officers ought to be
degraded in order to make way for other per
fonsof a more proper kidney, more flexible
and more fitted to the purposes of the writer.
Our curiolity is naturally excited to know
Mho is the psrfon or petloas Co ardently de
W ednesday, August 21, 1795*
broui of regulating* otir government: and
tii*fiir»gKTOt» oik ojfteers. The Viicoiwit de
Noailles very happily has enabled us toanfwer
this question. He was displeased at.the insult
offered to his humanity, he called on the
Printer and demanded his aurhor. He was
allured that he was not the person; but Gen.
Knox: intended to be hurt by ti»e query.r—As
it* Gen. Knox could be criminal in hearing
what the other might Jay without of&nce.
The Viscount however was not fatisfied with
this fine diftitt&ion, he insisted to have the
Kiitho and in due time he was informed that
the questions-were written by the Secretary
of Mr. Genet, the French Mioifter.
If we nf.r/ suppose that.Mr. Genet fees and
approves of ti;e political t±C:\yx ot* his Secre
tary, or that those eiTays are his own, wetnuft
for the fake of system admit, that he is ready
to recommemf other Officers in the place of
those whom<he turns out- And if we might
suppose, a cafe not improbable, that thePre
iident is indebted to the fame pen for some of
the extraordinary rcifiatk* on his Proclama
tion, it would naturally follow, that a fo
reigner, harcfly four months in America, is
willing to take upon himfelf the trouble of
governing the country.
From the New- York DAILY ADVERTISER.
BY the twenty-third article of the treaty
of amity and commerce, between the
United States and France, it is declared—
" Art- 23 It shall, be lawful for all and
fingjular, tbg Avbjefts of the mod christian
king, and she citizens, people and inhabitants
of the said United States, to fail with their
ships, witH all-manner of liberty and security,
iw dfcfti Action befog made who> are,the propri
etoi s ♦f the merchandizes laden- thereon, from
any pott to the places of those who now are
or hereafter fhajl be at enmity with the most
christian king;, or the United Stares. It fhaJl
likewise be lawful for the Aibjefts and inha
bitants afor-efard, to fail with the ships and
merchandizes aforementioned-, and trade with j
the fame liberty and security from tfie places, ;
ports and havens of those who are enemies i
of both or either party, without any oppofi-; i
tion or disturbance whatsoever, not only di
rectly from the places of the enemy afore
mentioned to neutral places, but also from
one place belonging to an enemy to another
place belonging to an enemy, whether they be
under the jurifdidlion of the fame prince, or
under several. And it is hereby stipulated,
that free ships fliall also give a freedom to
goods, and that every thing shall be deemed
to be free and exempt, which shall be found
on board the ships belonging to the fubjefts ot
either of the confederates, altho' the whole
lading, or any part thereof, should appertain
to the enemies of either, contraband goods
being always excepted. It is also agreed in
like manner, that the fame liberty be extend
ed to persons who are on board a free ship,
w>th this effect, that although they be enemies
to both or either party, they are not to be ta
ken out of that free ship, unless they are sol
diers, and in actual service of the enemies.
By the 24th article, it is declared that this
liberty of navigation and commerce (hall ex
tend to all kinds of merchandizes, excepting
those only which are diftinguifhedby the name
of contraband, fee.
In the Daily AdvertiTer of August the firft
—is contained the following
Decree of the National Convention, May 9.
Art. I. Ships of war and privateers are
authorized to ieize and carry into the ports of
the republic, merchant veffets which are
wholly, or ill part, loaded with provisions be
ing neutral property, bound to an enemy's
port, or having on board merchandize belong
ing to an enemy.
Art. 2. Merchandize belonging to the ene
my is declared a lawful prize, feizable tor the
piofit of the captor ; provisions, beiwg neu
tral property, (hall be paid for at the price
they would have fold for at the port where
they were bound, fee.
It also appears by the papers that our ves
sels, having British merchandize on board,
have been captured by French fliips of war,
and the merchandize confifcated.
We have as yet no evidence of the authen
ticity of the above decree—or of thole cap
tures, but such as is fnrnHhed by newfpnpers.
These are unquestionably not that kind of
tettimony which could claim the serious at
tention and operation of government—but if
these things are true, and certainly the cen
curunce of circumstances furnilhes too much
reafoo to fear that they are; then the French
government have by a deliberate judicial act,
been the firft to violate a solemn treaty : in
the molt material refpeft, in which our com.
mercial interest could be affected, and it is
raid that insurance on our vefTels, role imme
diately above one hundred per .cent—such
was the credit given to it by the merchants.
And if it is Irue—what does it prove—
why that there is 110 faith, or binding force,
upon independent communities, farther than
their interest is concerned.
509
Tltey «l)va\s have a p'eteuce at hard for
•Hcuip&tion.—The la'wof rationß,3lfT>,fettiM
tO'cotiirtenance fhcli when "if <te
ctar-es that in cafe a nation by adhering toia
treaty will be nioft eflentially injured, that
nation may juftifiably difregrard (uch t)c;i
ty—Vartel. *
What part our government ought to ast in
cafe there has really been- th s infraction of
tieafy, is riot for me tofav. But for myfelf,
such are my feelings for that lepublic, can
tending for its own undoubted rights—and
the rights of mankind— surrounded and in
vaded by a hod of nations determined to di
rect their internal affairs, and impose a form
of government—That had I the reigns of
admihiftratioiij.the partial advantage of A
merica, from the neutrality of her vefTeis,
Ihould give wav to urgent neceflitits of the
French republic, and I would aid them with
the fame zeal a* heretofore, in every way
compatible with the public tranquility of our
own country.
from the present complexion of things,
however with regard to the treaty, I draw'
tlfis inference, that it must afford an addi
tional realbn, to every ponfidering fellow
cititen, why he ought not to be in fucb migh
ty haste about volunteerir.g an address to Mr.
Genet.
NESTOR.
Those, however, who do not know or think
that the maigiftracy of their govemierrr has
been infultetf, who are willing that foreigners
should. revile the government—and . fan the
fire of party fpirir, may have a right so to do
—It is an unfortunate specimen of our free
dom, and if we cannot agree otherwise, let
us at leaftr agree to differ. lam determined
to maintain and exercise the sam? privilege ;
and will always in the most public manner
aflert, that a foreigner of any Tank whatever,
who intermeddles with our internal difien
tions, or who shall dare-to infu'.t the si.st
giftrate of the republic, is a dangerou. man
—and may expect to hear from
\v ilcocks.
New-York, Anguft 6y 1793.
Burlington, County, New-Jersey.
TICK font imentVr of free ri nims. npon-tiie-.
ineafures of their government on inte
resting or eiubarrafling octafiiou-s, are of the
greatest importance, both to the liberty of
tfie citizen and the operation of the govern
ment : ihiprefTi d'with tlftt idea, the citizens
of the county of Burlington, embrace the op
portunity presented by the fitting of the cir
cuit court in their county, and the pre fence
of a large number of their most relpe<slab!e
members, convened from every part of the
county, to take into confederation the procla
mation of the President of the United States,
and the Vice-President of this state, relative
to the neutrality of the United States of Ame
rica, in the present European war—Where
upon, an hour having been appointed for the
meeting of the citizens, and they having met
accordingly at the Court-house of the said
county, on Tuesday the 13th August, 1793»
and having appointed
General Joseph Bloom field, Chairman of
the said meeting,
It wis uiianirnoufly Refnlved,
id. That the 1 republican citizens of the
comity of BnrJingten, are highly impreffwl
with the policy and justice of the measures
recommended by the faiH proclamation,.which
declares to the people, the supreme law ps the
land founded upon the existing tieariis be
tween the belligerent- powers and thefc Uni
ted States. And that in fn doing, the Pre-
affad finally in the linp of hi? dury, arc]
for the best interest of his country.
2d. That the citizens of the county of Bur
lington, will, upon all occafioas with the
warme-ft zeal, co-operate in every legal way
—to detect and pujiifli offenders again ft the
right* of neutrality—jind by all means in their
power discountenance designs or pioceedings
calculated to inteirupt that tranquility and
happ'inefs, which the citizens of the United
States enjoy, under a pure and pacific admi
nistration of the government.
And further it is the opinion of this af
fcrehla»ge of citizens, r&at as the highest pri
vilege of these United States consists in their
republican form of federal government—as
the only legi-tiniate source of thi* government
is .the people—as they are only the proper
persons to ele& and appoint tbofe who are to
carry it into operation—And to judge of the
official conduit of their magistrate*—so any
interference in the internal administration
of the government, by any foreign power or
minister, is an infringement oi tie sovereign.
ty of the people, tends to destroy public con
fidence, leads to anarchy, and merits the le
vered reprehensions and discountenance of all
independent
4tb. Refolded, That copies of these refolu.
lons be forthwith transmitted to the Presi
dent of the United Stares and to the governor
of this state.
Signed by ortter of the Meeting.
JOSEPH BLOOMFIEtD, Cl.airir.ii>.
Citizen,
[Whole No. 450.]
FOR TffS GAZETTE.
CO if J* A R TSO NT of certain Art'k h > i n T writs
between fftirice''dtrd Qt'mt- ffrrtain+ ivfth Arh<'/i
in the Trenty oj Ainu ■ ard < omnic> u betiut?
France and the United States. •/
Treaty of Treaty of Anmy Jnd
&C6mm s eire between Conr»in« «cc, bitvvctu
fiance and Grea'.-ifn- Fraiitr *ud the XJi}'''<\
uin——conchnltd ac Siaus-- concluded 6-h
Utrepht, the 31 (i day *77$
of Marrh 41141 lulip/
April, 1713, . ,
er/ 22. It (hall jVot
be lawful lor any lo-
privateers, not be-
to fi»bje£ts of
th. tnolVChrl ft 1 niKing,
nor citizens of the Uni
ted States, who have
cotnmiflions fiom any
othei Prince 01 State.in
enmity with ei'her. na
tion, to ft' their fh'ps
hi rh pons of either
the. one or (hc-other of
the al«»rf{a d partes, to
Tell what they have ta
ken, or in any oth r
maimer whatfoevr to
exchange tlieii Oi 1 p.« t
merchandizes, or anv
other lading ; neither
(halLthey br allowed
even to prut ha ie vic
tuals, except such as
(hail be nec< (Tity, for
their going to the next
poit pi that Pi 1 nee or
State from winch 'Key
have cotninifTior.s.
Ait. 15. It (hall not
be lawful ku any fo
reign pi ivafecr?, noi be
ing fubje#s of one or of
the other ol the con(,s
- who have coin
mi flions from any P'-bcr
Prince or Staje in en
mity with either na
tion, to fit their (nips in
the ports of one-or the
other of tftr af'orefaid
parties, ta fell what
they have taken, or in
any other manner what
ever-to exchange-either
fb'ps. men liandir< s > or
anv other ladings ; nei
ther fh all they he allow
ed rvr n to pur chafe vic
tuals, except, fufch as
shall be nrceflary for
their going to the next
portof that Prince from
whom they have corn-
millions,
Ait. 17. Ti {hall be
lawful-lor the 0"*if>s.
war of either party, and
privatt crs. fieciv to car
ry whitnerfo ver they
plchfc, the fbipa and
gopd* from iK.ir
encmus, wiihop' V>e>,ng
obiijit d to p;.y anv c'ufy
to rne officef* «) the
admiralty, 01 anv other
judges ; nor Hijll such
Art. 36. It (hall be
lawful, as well lor the
Orps of war "of bo(h
ihe<r moll frrene royal
majesties, as for priva
tes $, to cat ry whither
soever they plcafe, the
Hiips and.goods taiten
from tihtir enemies;
•either (hall they be
oblijjed to pay
'o the office 1 .< olihe nd -
judges 5' riorfhall the fuzed when they come 0i
aforementioned prizes, to and euter the pom
when they coroe to and Ps either party; ■ r
emer the ports of either (hall the searchers or
of their moil serene other officers of those
royal maj. sties, be de- places fcarch the fc*rne,
tainfd by arreft,neither or make examination
(hall searchers, or othet concerning the lawful
officers of those places, riefs of such prizes; but
make examination con- they ma) hoik Iji| at
ceming them, or the va- an V time, and d parr
lidity theieof; but ra- carry their prizes
ther they (hall have )i- j° the place* expr< ffed
bcrty to hoist fail at auy '» their commissions,
time, to depart, and to v h»ch the coinmatidei s
carry their prizes to °f such (h:ps ol war
that place which is men- obliged to
tioncd in thfirCPtTimif- {hew; on the contrary,
fion or patent, which rjo (helier or refuge
the commanders of (hall be given in their
fucli (hips at war (hall ports to such as
be obliged to (hew: h*ve made prize of the
on the contrary, no fufcjrfts, people or pro
fhelter or refuge '(hall pert yof either of the
be given in their port* parties ; but if such
to such as have fnade a come in, bcjrtg
prize upon the fubje&s forced by ftiefsof wea
of either of their royal ther, or the danger of
majesties. And if per- the fea,all proper means
chance such fb.ips (hall be vigorously pjled
come in, being fofced l^Bt thev go out 4nd
by Arefs of weather, or retire from ihcnce as
the danger of the (lea, soon as poflible.
particular care (ball be
taken (as far as it is not
repugnant to former
treaties made with other
Kings and Stairs) that
ihey go from thence,
and retire elfcwhere, as
soon as poflible.
Treaty of Peice and Friend/hip, between Crfat-
Britan, France and Spaw t condudcd at P*ris t
10th February, 1763
Art. 9. The treaties of Weftphali*. of 1648,
Six. those of petKC and of commerce of Utrecht, of
1713, &c. (enumerating many others) '• serve
as a basis and foundation to the peace, and tc
the present treaty; and for this purpofr, they
are all renewed and confirmed in the b< it form,
a$ well as all the treaties in general, which fur>-
Gftcd between the high contracting parties be
fore the war, as if thev were infotrd here word
tor word, so that they are to be exaftl)
ed for the futu'e, in their whole tenor, and re
ligiously executed on all fides, in all their poi"ts
which (hall not be derogated from by the
sent treaty, nofwithflanding aII that may have
been iiipulated to the contraiy bv any of the
contra&ing parties : and all the [aidparties
declare, that they wi/i not fvffcr any privilege, fdvor
or indulgences to fobjjflt contrary to the treaties above
coufirmed, except what jhall hate been agreed and
Jlipulated by the present treaty
Treaty of Kavi gallon arid Commerce between France
and Great-hi itain, Jigned at Verjat/tfs, 26th
September, 1786.
Art. 16. It shall not he lawful for any foreign '
piiv«tctis, not being fubjc&s of either ciown^
/
J
'>
1 ; 1 vwho have ci mmifliona from ar.\ ot*ici !*< ••• P <'•<
Stair, in cm illy v*itn either eifjKn, to arm ;r
(hips in the }ortf of eilin rof (he law. two king
doms, to ft what tb' )' h«»e taken, or in any
other man tie whatever to exchange the (am ;
neither (hall they be allowed even to purcluk
vexcept fjih dj (hall be nenfliry foi
their going lo the neaicil pail oi that P.iijfcc
from whom thry have obtaiue.i coinniUions.
(onipure thu cuiih ike isth artide of Vu treat} of
Utrecht, above and the *:<1 article cf the
jrtwtypf amity una cvm*r:tce between Ftanu audlhe
United States
» A ft. 10. "It (hall be lawful, as well for the
(hips ot war ot their maj (lies, as foe privateers
belonging to their fahjetls, to carry w hither fo
ev< r they pi- ase t the (hips and goods taken from
their encm'rt, without being obliged 10 pay any
lee lo lbe officer* of the admiralty, or to any
judges whatever ; nor lhall the said prizes, when
they an ivc at and enter the pons of liicii (aid
wajefttes, be detained or Uized; neither (hall
the fearchcrf, or olhcr officers ot those places,
visit or take cognizance of the validity of such
prizes ; but they fball be at lib. rty lo hotft f a, l
at an.y t'.me, to dapart, and to can y their prizes
to the p'acc mentioned in the corrt millions or
parents, which the commanders of such (hips of
war lhall be obliged to (hew : on the cwntraiy,
fio (h'rhei or lefuge (hall be given in their ports
to such as have made a prize u,jon the fnbje&s
of niher of I heir maj ftus ; but il forced by
ft re fs of weaihtr, or the dangers ot the iea, to
enter therein, particular care shall be taken to
hasten thc:r departure, and to cause them to re
tire from thence as soon as pofliblc, as far as it
is not repugnant to former treaties made in this
refpeft with other loveieigns or dates.
Compare this article with the 36/// article of the
jormer treaty (oj Utrecht) and the 17th article of the
latter, _
»r
QUERIES.
Whether, tl the United States, under the
»2d article of the treaty ot amity md commeice
with Fiance, arc bound to admit the fitting out
ef French privateers, to the exclusion ojail others,
when Franve 19at war, and the Untied State* ate
neutral, Fiance is not equally bound, >>1
United States (hould be at war, and France
iliould be neutral, to admit the fitting out ot
American the txtlujxov oj alt others ?
2. Whether, if such be the coullruetion ol that
article of ihat treaty, a similar couftruflion mull
not be given to the r.5 l h a» lielc ol the tieavy
above mentioned, and the 16th article ot the
treaty Of 1786, belween Fiance and Great-Bri
tain. those articles being substantially the fame
with the 22d article of the treaty of amity and
commerce between the United States and
France ?
3. Whether, therefore, in cafe when the ob
ligation of thofc treaties was in full force, a war
had taken place between Great-Britain and the
United Sta'.es,"atui France had been neutral, the
corifequence of such a conitiufiion would not
have been, that France was bound bv htr trea
ties with Great-Britain to admit the /lUiug out oj
Britijh, to the excUJion oj American privdt<e>> ; and
by the treaty with the United States to admit
-it., fittim ir giitjq£ Amet ican, to .the cxclufioft.of\Blitifh
privateer* r — '
4. Whether that confttu&ion of those trea
ties be so neceflary and unavoidable, as to
juflify a charge of such duplicity upon one of
the contra&ing powers, and of the .grofleft folly
upon >he others, finer the treaties of Utrecht and
o f 1763 were well known before the treaty of
1778 was entered into, and that ot 1778 long
before the treaty of 1786 ?
5. Whether, it the conftru£lion be in other
tefpefls doubtful, such a one ought not to be
given, as is conlillent with the fuppofitton of
good faith in an ally to whom we owe such great
obligations, and ol a little prudence and com
mon f nfe in perfnns who were never remarka
ble for wanting either ?
FhiUdelphia, Augujl 16, 1793.
From the Columbian Centinel.
Mr. Russel,
WHENlfawa prophetic intima
tion in your last Centinel, that
we might soon expedt to ha»e some of our
citizens denounced by a Jacobin Club, or
in the Jacobin mode ; I little thought
that the predi&ion would be verified in
the fame week. But the Jacobin party
in every country are so ardent, and are
in the habit so strongly of marching with
a quick step to the tune of Ca Ira, that
they progress much falter than we expec
ted. Their impetuofuy is so great, that
even here, they seem to proscribe with as
much facility and expedition, as they do
in Paris ; and may perhaps, sentence and
execute our citizens with as much celcii
ty as they have done in France. On
Thursday afternoon eleven of our ciii
zeru, some of whom are of the utmod
rsfpeftability in town, were denounced,
and their names displayed in large letters
on the mainmast of the French frigate
now in this harbour, as Aristocrats, un
friendly to the French revolution, and a
verse to having American citizens enter
on board French privateers. This was
the crime said to be dated on the paper
above the names j and it was confirmed
to be the crime for which they were de
nounced, by one of the officers of the
frigate to Americans who were on board.
Now, Mr. Rtiflel, I wi(h the noted
Expositor of laws and treaties, the would
be Marat for this Department, to (hew us
by what article of our treaty with France
the Fiench naval officers, or the agents
of the Jacobin Club in Paris, have a right
to proscribe our citizens, because.they
wish to live in peace with all the world.
The prediction in ynnr CentJnel of lad
I Weuucfday is now fuihlied. Eleven of
out citizens are now proscribed, and their
names announced on boatd the frigate,
becanfe they wi(h to preserve our neutra
lity, and have l>een opposed to our tak
ing a part in the piefent war. I wilh al
so to know what is to be their punish
ment, and who are to execute it ? Ate
they to fuffet by the .Lamp Cord or the
Guillotine here, or ar.t tbey to be sent in
irons to Paris, to fuller there ? If it be
not the latter, why was the profcHptiSVi
firft announced on boaid the French fri
gate ? If the former be intended, wby
was not process made in our own mode,
and through the medium of our ow«,
laws ?
Has the boaftcd freedom of American
citizens come to this—has our valued li
berty so foor» funk to a Hate of vassalage
to an European nation ! What other fo
reign nation, since the revolution, has
aflumed such a power over us ? And is
this to be viewed as evidences of their
friendliiip as allies, or their love of liber
ty and equality ?
Have we no chara£ler as Americans,
no laws, no government of our own, that
we mud be called to a foreign tribunal ?
Is it laudable and virtuous sot us to insult
the President and a!) others who adminis
ter the government of the Union ; and is
it criminal to be advocates for peace, and
promoters of public tranquillity and hap
piness ? What a mutable world is this,
what a perverlion of all good principles, J
of common sense, and of moral recti
tude!
But fear not, Mr. Ruflel, though you
are among the profctibed. We have a
faction, and they are known ; but their
wickedness will fall on their own pates;
they will yet probably fufFer by the naps,
which they have prepared for others.
A Free American.
Cj* It is but justice to Captain Van
Dongen, commander of the La Con
corde, to fay, that he holds in the high
est detellation the conduct above alluded
to, which was done in his abfcnce, and
that he is taking mcafures to discover the
writer of the paper.
A CARD.
THE gentlemen, whose names were
polled on the main Inaft of the frigate
La Concorde, on Thursday afternoon,
present their compliments to the captain
of that fliip, and request liim to enquire
ahd inform them through the Centinel,
who it was that did it, or by whose direc
tion or privity it was done, and what was
the objedt in doing it. They are inform
ed and believe, that the Captain had no
knowledge of the ast when done, and
was displeased with and reprobated it.—
But they know of no channel so clear and
direct of coming at the agent, as through
the officers of the {hip.
Boston, dug. io.
The French Patriotic Society,
Residing in Boston, beg leave to in
form the American gentlemen, whose
names have been polled up as Ariftoeraf s
that they hold with contempt and indig
nation the author of the fame, who with
out any provocation, has cruelly, and
(hamefully attacked their chara&ers; and
that in justice, which they owe to them
selves, they take this method to inform
them, that they are ashamed of it, sorry
for it, and will take every poflibie llep to
discover the author, and will expose him
to the public.
John Duballet, Piefident.
By order of the Society,
S. Veron, Secretary.
80/ ton, -dug. y.
United States.
NEWBURYPORT, August to.
TO W N.M E ZT IN G,
AT a legal meeting of the town of
N'ewburyport, held by adjourn
ment, oil VVednefday, 7111 Aug.
• 793. 'he late Proclamation of
the Prefidentof the United States
was taken into serious confidera'
'•on :—andthekeupon
" "\TOTED unanimously, That in
* the opinion of this town, the
neutrality of the United States, du»
ring the war now waged by the fe
deral .belligerent powers in Europe,
is confillent wiih the honor and
good faith of our government, and
not repugnant to any treaties exit
ing between the United States, and
any of those powers.
-510-
Voted unanimonfly, That jji the
opinion of this town, a striCt and
uniform adherence to that neutrali
ty, is of the utinoll importance to
ihe heft interells and of
our country.
Voted unanitnoully, That in the
opinion of this town, the late Pro
clamation of the President, declar
ing that neutrality, was a conitim
tional and wife nieafnre, resulting
from his ardent affection for his
feliow-citizeps, his knowledge of,
and vigilant attention ro their just
rights and trtte imereft.
voted unanitn-oufly, That in the
opinion of this town, any infraction
of the laws of neutrality, by any of
;Lhe citizens of the United States,
fitting out, or being interested in
armed veflels, to cruise against the
citizens or fubjetfts of either of the
belligerent powers, or perlonally
engaging in such cruise, will natu
rally tend to injure eflentially, the
agricultural, manufacturing, and
commercial interests of this country.
THEREFORE,
Voted tuianimoufly, That to pre
vent any such breach of the laws of
the land, we will take every legal
method in our power, to discover
and prosecute to condign punifh
nient, any Citizen, who, regardless
of the duties be owes to his coun
try, may be guilty of f.icb danger
ous offences."
l'xtraft from tlie Records,
Attest,
Enoch TircoMß, jun.Town-Clerk
S A L V E M, August 13
LafV Friday arrived at this part,
the sloop Nancy, John Ingerf»l!,
matter, with the wreck of live (hip
" Albion, of Bristol," copper-bot
tomed, and coiiftru<fted for the
Guinea trade Capt. I. had been
out 8 days on his passage to the W.
Indies : on the 3d intt. early, in the
morning, saw the above wreck to
windward, and came up with her
in about 3 hours : on going 011
board, it appeared (tie had been left
some time by her crew, having been
run foul of by some other veflt-1,
and very much damaged, her star
board bow being (love in e*en with
her lower deck, inainmatt and fore
1110ft gone, her remaining fails torn
to pieces, and 6 feet water in her
hold. She appeared to be a prize
worth an effort : by the extraordi
nary exertions of the matter and
crew of the Nancy (only J men and
a boy) she was pumped dry,fome re
pairs made, and then taken in tow
for about 40 leagues, when they had
got her in a fittiation to make fail
herfelf before the fair wind with
which they were favored ; and both
arrived here the 7th day after meet
ing the wreck. Capt. J. supposes
some one had been on board before,
as there appeared to have been ta
ken from between decks a number
of bags of cotton, and large quan
tities were laying loose upon deck.
The /hip is about 200 tons ; her car
go is sugar, rum, cotton, mahogany
and logWood ; and she is supposed
to be one of the Jamaica fleet, which
failed in June. A Jamaica news
paper, and several private letters,
were the only papers found on
board.
Ait a meeting oF the freeholders and
other inhabitants of the town of Mavhle
head, convened on Thursday the Bth of
'August, 17513, adjournment from the
7tr> in(K
On considering the communication
from the meichants and tiadrrs of the
town ot Bolton of their resolution* at
their meeting on the 22<idayof July lad
upon the fubjeft of the neutrality of the
United Statc.6 in refpedi to the present
belligerent powers.
Voted, 'I hat the inhabitants of this
town do heaitiiy concur In the said reso
lution of the merchants and traders of the
town of Bolton, conceiving them to be
adapted to promote the public good.
Voted, That the inhabitants of this
town have been greatly encouraged in
the pursuit qf their fiflienes and torn
tnerce, by the Prefident'.s very seasonable
proclamation, declaring the difpolition of
die United States to puvfue a friendly and
impartial conduit toiva: the belligerent
powers refpe&ively, and warning the ci
tizens of the United States to avoid all
ads and proceedings which might in any
iranner tend to contravene ft:ch difpofi-
tions.
Voted, that t?i<r inhabitants of tk'i*
tt»wn fha'l view with peculiar alarm and
anxiety, and will Ptadilv oppose arisdirts
or proceedings «>l thecUizens of thilc
dales or of Any p?if,!iis wiihiii llii ,'an>e,
which may tend in any nieafure
veee the friendly and impartiafjilpotitii.ii
of the U. Slates towaids tlie uotveis ;it
war ; and w:U use their cDceavoui's tyf
detest and bring to j jllice all pcrfoitt who
by fuel) aifts and proceedings (hall vitiate
theUw of nations, andendanger the peace
and welfare of the United Siati s.
Voted, That a copy of the foregoing
resolutions of this'town (hall be fcr.t. :□
the Hon. Thomas Ruff.ll, and fha.'l be
printed in the Salem Gazette.
Cxtrad of a Istter Jram a refpetiable
Hwfi in Barcelun t, dated 16ih-
June, to a corrcfpondeHt in this citj .
" The Spani/h fleet is jult return
ed here, after having taken
island of St. Peter, and another final!
Ole adjoining, which is reltored to
the Sardinians ; drove ashore and
boint a French frigate, and has
broighthere another, of 36 giins
and 1 400 prisoners, who foriei.dei
ed at tlifcretion, without the ief»of
a man on either fide."
Copy of a letter written by his Ex
cellency Geo. Clinton, Efq Go
vernor of the lime of New-York,
to Nicholas Cruger, Esq. Chair
man wf a late wceiing of the ci
tizens of New-York.
I HAD the, honor to receive jour
police letter, enclosing certiiiir tefo
'hitions 'oj the citizcns';>f N. Yoi'k. •
As the approbation of a trie ftnd
enlightened people is the ninl) ho
notable and pleating reward that
can he conferred upon their public
officers ) I eiitreat you to allure -oac
refpeflable fellow citizens, that I
receive with the brighteil fatisfac
tion, their favorable opinion of oiy
ronduift on an occadon so interest
ing to the happiness of the United
States, as that to which their refov
lutions refer. Thefirm deierinina
lion of the citizens to support rhe
government of our country, in the
exei cifeof our important functions,
mult reflect honor upon their pa
triotifin and good sense.
1 am wuh great refpetl,
Your molt obedient fervatit,
GEO: CLINTON
Nicholas Cmger, Esq.
We are informed that the patrio.
tie society of this town, ar their Jaft
meeting,i-efolved.that the benefacli
ons given by the inhabitants of this
place, towards affording a tempora
ry relief to thediftrefied citizens of
Cape-Francois, shall not be tranf
mitced to the French minister,, Ge
net, as was proposed, but be at five
disposal of the commiitee, who ob
tained this charity, for the benefit
of these unfortunate people.
Marlileheai!,
Philadelphia, Aug. 21.
A large sum of money in dollars,
belonging to merchants in this city,
was 011 boai d an American fchopner
captured by the Little Democrat,
which the officer of the privateer
removed, put on board a pilot boat,
and Tent it up on Sunday last to their
agent here. It being discovered by
thole concerned, that the money
was contained in ilie pilot boat, the
vellel was immediately put under
the guard of a detachment of mili
tia, and Monday afternoon the mo
ney was delivered to the owners.
ExtraEl of a letter from Baltimore,
i Augufl 6.
" A gentleman arrived here from
Dominica fays, that the Solebay
man of war arrived there from
England with orders for the fleet,
which was not to retnrii to Europe
as was expe<Sed. The Solebay left
England the xjthof June, a: which
time little was (Uid to have been
done on the continent of Europe "
A true Copy from the Records,
W. ABRAHAM, T.Clcrtt.
NEW-YORK, Augu(i ,6.
. New-York, f 4th dugufl', 1
S I R,
NEWARK,' August 24.
tMeetings have been held in the
lowns of Lynn, Ncv*bury port. Pot-e
----land, Plymouth, Ma> blehead, Salem
aiul Springfield, Mall'achufetts, and
in Hertford and New-Haven, Con
(let'ticut, to talis into conlideration
i lie !»; nation of the United States,
in relation to the war ; in all of
which, the sentiment was fully ex
prefl'ed, that it is our interest and
duty to prefervea Itritft neutrality ;
thac the President's proclamation,
enjoining a neutral conduct, was
patriotic, fealunable, and calculated
to benefit this country ; and that
they will do every thiiig in their
power to prevent a violation of its
principles.
T|ie accounts of depredations on
French property found on board
American vcflels—of interruptions,
detentions, charges, loflcs, insults,
&c. follained by our navigation at
the hands of the New-Providence
privateers, are innumerable—and
call loudly for the interposition of
government. Some accounts of out
rages recently committed on Ame
rican vessels by Ki ench cruifershave
also been publilhed.
Tuerday last the firft vintage ever
held in America, was to begin at
Mr. Legaux's vine-yard near spring
mill—and in a few weeks that gen
tleman will be able to produce fpe
cimens of American wine.
ExtraSs from a Madr't l paper of tie 14th
of June 1793.
" His has teceived by an ex
press, dispatches from Don Ventura Ca
ro, general of the army of Nava.ra ; they
mention that on the 6th inft. at 9 o'clock
in the morning, he ordered an attack up
on the enemy, who were polled up in 3
mountains almolt inacccflible. Alter a
very bloody engagement of 4 hours, our
troops dislodged the enemy, and placed
therafelves in their positions taking from
them Fort Pinon, and purfutd them as
far as the village of Otiznn, which was
occupied by the rear of their army whete
our Gen. ordered his troops to reft & eat
something.as they were yet falting,which
they did inthefame camp and in the fame
tents the Fiench had occupied a little
while before.
" At the time tlr? expiefs set off, oilr
Gen. was not able to ascertain the num
ber of killed and -wounded on either fide
but Gen. Qciirier who commanded the
tear of the French army, arid was taken
prisoner, declared that the {laughter had
been very great in his army.
" GiOi Caro adds that our troops made
the attack with the greatest intrepidity
and valour ; for 4500 men dislodged
4000 from positions almost impregnable,
that even for 20,000 men it would have
been thought a glorious action.
Don Antonio Ricardas, general of the
army of Roufillon, by a letter dated the
4th inft informs, that the day before he
had aH'auhed for two hours the for
tification of the Bauos ; after which,
he ordered his Adjutant to summon the
garrison to surrender within two hours,
otherwise no capitulation would be
granted. The enemy agreed to it, and
sent their conditions, which our general
refufed—the rtt stipulated that the gar
tifon ihould be free. Finally the enemy
fuftendered the fortification, and evacu
ated it with the honors of war ; but the
garrison, to the number of from 350 to
400, remained prisoners of War.
" Our general intends to tranfnit all
the particulars in his next letter."
fRE\'CH NATIONAL COA'PEKf 10N.
Fridsy, May 24, 1795.
On the proportion of the com
mittee 0!" public fafety. The con
vention decreed, That the veflels
of the United -States are not com
prehended in the decree of the 9th
of this month.
Philadelphia, Aug. 16, I 793
jC7* The committee of merchants
being organized, have fixed iheir
Hated meetings on Mondays and
Thursdays in each week, at 12
o'clock at noon, at No. 119, south
front-ftreet, the office of the insur
ance company of North-Am erica ;
where they will be ready to receive
any information from the mer
chants, captains of veflels, and
others who may have any thing to
communicate relative to the objects
of their appointment
Robert Rai.stok, Sec'rj
MOM I'll £ FEDERAL GAZETTE
Tfo. Editor cj the Federal (•azeltc has rectnti the
Inflowing letter a relpeftrfhle correhioiiVl
ent vow in t/, ncity ; I, a , e^ ue j t „ may
he puMjhed.
Sir,
YOU are anthovized to inform the public,
that the armies ot Spaiii, in Catalonia, on
the i6tti nl Apiil enietcd France by the
province of Rouliilon. From tbat time till
the 34th of May, they had beat the French
aimies in several engagements, in which the
forces were equal, and c-ven inferior" to the
latter: that the had taken from
the French by force of arm';, the towns of
Geret and Argeles, together with the fort of
Maiden, with several pieces of artillery, am
munition, arms, two flags, and killed from
3 to 410, 230 wounded, 280 drowned iu fritf"
river near Caret, and they took above 200
prifonei s. That the town of St.Lorencc ,
Cii(Ja, and 21 villages of the French 'fcerdii
ria have furrehdered themfelvei ipon-tstßeoiif
ly to the Catholic armies, with the ringing of
bells, found,ot music, and loud
of long live the kii.g of Spain.
That the May, the other aimy in Na
vane enreied France by the province of Gaf
conia, dislodged the French armv off the
eminence 011 which they were and en
camped themselves thereon; they beat the
French and put them to a piecipitate flight,
and poirefled themselves of the town of Sua.
They were equally beat back in the pro
vince of A'agon, when the French attempt
ed to enter in to Spain—and until that date,
the only advantage the French obtained, was
the taking of the very inconsiderable places
of Sarraganundy and U'dax.
The admiral of the Spanifli fleet, doll Fran
cisco de Borl'a, whom his Catholic maj'ffy
lertt to re inflate his Sardinian m.-.jefly (uncfe
to the king of Sp:iin) informs, under date of
the 26th May, tliat the islands of $teiA.fltonlp
and St. Peters, which had been formerly :aken t
by the French were then in polfeifion of his
Sardinian majeftv, and rendered to him by
capitulation ; that t!ie above admiral had
captured the French frigate Eiena of $6 guns,
on the coast of St. Peter, and the French fri
gate Richmond, formerly belonging to the
E'>£l»fh, was burnt in the harbour.
That laid admiral had taken 011 board his
fleer 37 officers and iooo men prisoners of
war, 25 guns, mortals, and a great quantity
of proyrfions.
Mr. Brown is likewise authorised *0 contra
di& the falfe report of the defeat of the Spa
nish army which appeared foibe time ago, in f
the American papers.
' ROM TK| GENERAL ADVERTISER.
•Reliance may he p> a d ' Ul
"rcat
place
ing intelligence.
Bxtrafl of a letter from a gentlemanofdeep obser
vation and Jlricl veracity, in Hamburgh spAts
jr\cnd in this city "
HAMHURCH, JUNK '
u The Germin rtc'wfpjipert| I fend yon,are
intended for one of your new/paper printers
in making uPe of them, I roust remark, it
will be necessary to observe that they are for
ced almost ali to be partial against the French ;
and that their boasted vi&ories are neither
so decisive, nor so g»eat, as is related. The
war wastes terribly in lives and money, and
the Emperor and Prussia are almost exhausted
in point of finances. Unhapp ly those mis
chievous New-Jacobins do all to promote
and second the measures of the German and
other conspired princes. Marat, lloberfpierie
and Danton, are really the g«eateft enemies
of France. But their party begins to fall;
and is entirely dv ftroyed at Mai feille*, Bour
diaux, &c. only Paris and Lyons support it."
This is in a great degree a confirmation of
the extract of a letter from Bordeaux, given
in our last. It appears from these two [hat a
change must have taken place in the general
politics of France, since the date of our last
detailed accounts. We are tempted to im
agine, from what we have been able col
lect, that probably, the violent minority oi'
the Convention, whose influence is predomi
nant in Paris, may have imprudently ufeel
force against their opponents, and that the
departments well asserted to the cause of ra
tional republicmifm, finding thedignity of the
National Conveneion in fu I ted, and the rights
of the majority impaired by violence, may
have used strong measures to restrain t(ie fac
tious in the capital ; but our belief cannot
carry us to fear, for one moment, that the
causa of limited monarchy could poflibly find
any number yf advocates in France.
The iloop A'odia, which had gone,down the
Ohio to New Orleans, and there rook a Spa
nish regiiler, was taken on her pafl'age to Phi
ladelphia by the Petit Democrat, and sent
ko as a prize to this port, together with the
sloop Hope of Antigua, taken by the Genet.
Both of these prizes were seized by virtue oi'
an order from the Executive of the United
States, directed to governor Mifflin, and a
guard of Militia took pofleffinn of them ; and
on Saturday evening the Alodia was reltored
to the uivner, who is a citizen of the United
States- It is expected that the Hope will
likewise be relfored to her owners, as by tiie
late decilion of the Prefideilt, no prizes can
be legal, that fliall be taken by any of the five
French privatrers mentioned in the Circular
Letter to the Collectors.
In conlequence of orders given to the mi
litia at Fort Mifflin, tliey have seized the brig
Oavofa which had been sent op there a prize
to the Democrat.
The Cologne Gazette Hates in a le»«r da
ted Paris, May 29th, that e*ooo- Royalists had
made an attempt.to attack Cherbourg by land,
while a veflel of eighteen gun? was to attack
ir bv lea ;-but that 2,000 patriot*, with 40
piece* of cannon, having marcfjed against
them, they were forced to ictire.
5 11
A correspondent \n Mr. Dunlap's paper cf
Monday lays, that as the bone of contrition
ig taken atvay, five of the French privateers
being proscribed, it is to be hoped, tiiar any
tii r rh«r clamours against the French nation
wilTceale; indeed we must allow, that the
• Convention in their Decree which excepts
American bottoms from being examined by
their ihips and cruizers, have a&eda wife and
friendly part ; and the accommodating difpojition
of Mr, Genet, since his arrival in America,, has
deserved the approbation of all men, who are
not cafe hardened against the cause of liberty.
His eondoft in regard to the restoration of
the (hip Grange, and in several other instan
ces/ has proved the truth of the aflertio<n.
In the fame paper, the fame paragraphia,
injmojher column, speaking of the repealing
the Decree of the National Convention of the
9th" May (which is a palpable violation of the
treaty) by a fubfeqnent Decree of the 23d
May, fays that this proceeding is 4,4 gencrdus
on the part of France and adds—Such con
fid'erations as thei'* must have some effe<Tt in
flopping the torrent of abuse, now pouring
forth against every Frenchman, and against
every patriot of the world, by the enemies of
liberty, who have iecured to themlelves a
in the United States.
What is intended by u clamours against
the French," it is not difficult to determine,
—Had the government of the United States
permitted certain persons to proceed in their
iwiparellelled insults, and violations of neu-
bad the people refrained from ex
prefling their approbation of the measures
adopted by government,topreferve the peace,
Jibe rty and independence of the United States,
we should not have heard of " clamours a -
garnft the French."—Clamours against the
people and government of this country have
disgraced several of the public prints of the
United States, for several months past—-but
we have heard no remarks (iinilar to the
above from this zealous paragraphift.
We hav< heard of a Decrec of the. National
Convention of France, of the g(h May, evident
ly violating an eflential article of the treaty be
tween France and the United Siates. That such
a Decree was palled, there can be no doubt, as
the conlcqnenccs have been experienced by the
commercial inten fts of this country. But it is
now said (from what authority does not appear,
as neither the Executive of the Union, or'the
Mipifter of France, have announced the fadfc)
that a Decree of the 23d May has annulled the
Decree of the .9th, so Jar as it contravenes the
treaty with the United Slates. However, on the
bare supposition that this may be the cafe, a pa
ragraphift in Mr. Dunlap's paper of Monday,
puffs off the trar.failion as an in (lance of the
** generofit)" of Franc?, and as.facriftcing the. in
tcreft of tl>at republic for their American bre
thren—These arc mere flourifhes—for if to be
jujl in the fulfilment of treaties, is to be generous,
what becomes of i be.faith of nations, and that
fupericrrity of republican h.oni&f, over
that of monarchical ?—The truth is, that those
who have made the greatefl clamour about the
facrednefs of the obligations Amcrjca is under
to fulfil its treaties with France, are the fnft to
annihilate those obligations, Dy extolling an ad
of juflic,c, if it has really taken place, as an ast ol
genervfity. By this we may fee what ideas fume
perfous entertain of the faith of nations.
in the- ii>
lov.jf
The explanation given to the treaty with
France by our Executive, ought ro do away all
'contention on the import of ct rtain articles of
it, <hat have been the cause of unbecoming
warmth nmcing us. The people have spoken by
their executive reprefintative—it becomes every
good citizen got to weaken that voice, but abide
bv the decision. If every one on questions of
this natuie attempted to judge lor himfelf,
wheie would be the use, or energy of govern
ment. Gen. Adv. <
The National Gazette of Wednesday last
fays, " I expett your addressers to the Pro
clamation are composed chiefly of rigid Epif
c&paltans, Quakers,and European merchants,
or in other words, Tories, with a few Office
hunters, and dependants on Office, &rc.-— A
correspondent asks, are not the farmers,
mechanics, laborers, &c. also concerned in
the preservation of the peace of this country ?
A writer in ihe Newark Gazette /peaking oj certain
recent publications—Jays—
" Much of this abuse springs from that old
root of bitterrfefs, the spirit of Antijederahfrn \
some of it from that restless ambition which
wishes to rife, although it be on the ruins of
our peace ; and the reft may be traced to fo
reign interference. No arts to mi fie ad and
poifon'the public mind, and even to pervert
the administration of juiHce, have been spar
ed, and to fnch a height has the wickedness of
some men been carried, that, by means of
an infamous print, the populace have been
founded to fee if they were ripe for the last
ast of violence. This attempt bas filled eve
ry honest breast w~ith indignation, and could
have arisen with those only who have been ac
cuitemed to mafTatres—to heads carried on
polps and to fcaffoids fmoaking with blood.
"j'befe violent attacks upon the peace and
government ol our country have excited the
Maenribri tif many of the principal Ciries and
Tnvrtis-in America. They Ifave thought it
grower by Addresses or Refoivcs, to express
their full approbation of the Pre(idfcnt'» Pro
clamation, of tbeir disposition to preserve the
ftrifteft neutrality and to support.the Consti
tution and Laws of the United States. The
inve&ives of anonymous fcriblers, not one of
whois has dared to avow himfelf, have thus
beenxijienly answered by the must pointed
contradiction and the I"cntiment>.expreiled on
these fubj,-fts in the town-meetings at Bo (lon,
Salem, Beverly and New-York, and by the
Merchnrt"> of Philadelphia, Alexandria and
other place*, breathe the lime spirit. Yet
tliefe explicit declarations have not Clrrced
Says a Correspondent,
FROM A CORRESPONDENT,
these writers. They affect to console them*
feiv-es because the At ri cultural interejt has no c
joined in these aridrefles or relorves. TH*
Editor of the National Gazette even appeal* l
to the Farmers of America to countenance
his abuse of the Preddent's Proclamation.—
Yes ! .my Countrymen, they falfely triumph
in ourJt!enc< and mistake our contempt for our
approbation. It is time therefore for us also
to speak out and to teach these men how lit*
tlettyey know of the land-holders of New-
Jersey, To whom are the bleifings of Peace
more valuable than to us ? To whom are the
. patriotism, the wisdom and difinterelted vir
tues of General WASHINGTON better
known than to us, among whom l>e has Jlo of
ten been ? And where is the State that has
shewn a warmer attachment to the Federal
. Cootfitution, to order and good guvei nuienc
than otirs, which is wnulty composed of Fann
e.'s ? Why then ftoulcf we futfer ourlelves to
? be represented as the Revilers of Gove-.n
ment and ready so rejoice \rith the triends of
anarchy and diforder/'
By the late arrival at New-York from
Bourdcaux, a paper was received containing
the proceedings of the National Convention
of the second of June— by which it appears
that the Convention had been surrounded for
four days by a great multitude of the citi
zens of Paris—-armed with muskets and ar
tillery—that after a tumultuous and clamor
ous debate—Couthon, one of the members, said
that all the members of the aflembly fhouM
poflsfs a confidence that they are free ; you
have found on all fides, and at every Itep a
people who are good, but irritated and desi
rous of j lift ice.
I do not at this t'me vote in favor of the
Icoee of accusation agaiuft the denounced
lumbers, b«t feeing that the opinion it ftrong
iy laaniieited agaiuft then), i dema»d that
they be put in arrest in their own houses} 1
comprehend in my motion the fommifljon of
twelve, and the fniniflerj Le B> uti and Cla
viere ; this proportion was adopted..
The member* arretted are,Vtrgniaux Bar<-
baroux Salles, Genfonne,Gua<!ct, He
lot, Chambon, Buzot, Biruteau, Lidon, ia*
source, Gorfas, Lanjuinais, Grangoneiive Le
hardy dn Mprbihan, Le'age, Lou vat, Valaee,
the members of the conuniflipn ol twefve,
excepting those who did not figri certain of
ders of arrest, and the ministers Clavier* and
Le Brun are 4lfo arrested.
The fitting adjourned at ten o'clock.
£j'.trail of a letterJrom New-Ytrk, Aug. 19.
" There is a dilagreement on board r 1 e :
French fleet; various itoriesare WW refpe i •
it. It'is however s fact, tint admiral
Gimbis is under an arrest by the
rai of the officers it is said have refigncd.—
The men accnfe Gambit of being the causa of
'the troubles at the Cape ; a'nd fey Genet is
parti il to him, being his brother in law."
The above extract contains a very enfg-,
Ihatical story—Time wifl dcyeioje, the truth.
••-The apparent motioris' of ara :
often retrogade to th« point they aim at. 1 '
Fr:dcrick-Toivn (Maryland) Aug. 8.
Just t his paper was going to press, a gen
tleman arrived in towri from theWeftward,
who informs that Genera) Wayne had left
Fort-Jefferfon, and that General Scott tyifl
joined him with 2000 militia from
and intended to march dire<stly into tie In
dian towns.
EXTRACT.
No achievement, since the discovery of
the western world, has, in point of moral uti
lity, as yet, rivalled the magnitude of.*lie po
litical discovery recently atchieved on that
theatre of grandeur. That the new world,
in which the majestic energy of nature has
sported iii wild luxuriance, and which is so
diftingui/hed by the bold d'fplay of physical
magnificence, should so potently arrest the
moral eye, and be also thus eminently diftin*
gui/hed by the display of human magnanimity,
is a confederation, which, if pursued in a cer
tain direction, might be expected to lead into
a rich field of interesting ideas.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED/tf M<PORToj PHILADELPHIA,
Btig Dolphin, Rogers, Kennebec
M'Lean, Mont ego Bay
Gilbert, New-York
Puce, do.
New-Providence
New-York
Cape-Francois
Boston
New- York
do.
Polly,
Betfcy,
Schr. Amelia,
Mary,
Sloop Maria,
Jenny,
fJew Forgf,
Eliza,
Betsey,
Caflin,
Bctonn,
W(t.b,
Lincoln,
Lewis,
Hobart,
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cer.ts,
3 per C-nts,
Deferred,
Full lhares Bank 17. S.
District •/ Finnsvrvaria, to toil.
/""X DE IT REMEMBERED, that on
( I.S. ) thirteenth day of August, mi
\ J the eighteenth year of the Indepen
dcnce of the United Slates of Amcrica,
THOMAS DOBSON, of the said Diftn£t, hath
depofneri in this Office the Title of a Book, the
Right y/hereof he Claims ,a» Proprietor, in tht
words following—to wit:
" Transactions or th i Cot Lie f. or
" PHYSiciAN«or Philadelphia.—Vol. I.
•« Part I.—Nrnfibi fcibti."
In conformity to the Afl of the Congrefi of
the llnitrti States, intituled, " An AS tor the
Encouragement of Learning, by ipcuring the
Copies ol Mips, Charu and Books, to the Ak
thurs and Propnctors o& sum Copies, diuiDf
the liroti therein mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL, C!e,k ofHt
x B'a
J °/
ioJ 9
5 per ctnt. adv., i mis. en. Dih.cti-
PRICE CURRENT. | . beil, in fl.fks.pr.box 10
**a ItUAMTITY. — Dot lah k »oo Ccnu e»ch. I — Ditto baft- -v sz bottles 5
I Speiniaccii pr. gall. 4^
PHILADELPHIA. Aucust 2±. I'mn - *4 2;
/ l-f^ —Wna.e «5 33
A Dlls.Ch. Dlh.(fi |#orter pr. calk; 5 33
/jLNCHOKS pr.tS. - 7 i° ondon, pr.doz IJ°
AHum, Enalith, pr.cwt. 433 I- American ditto bo:. ocl. J»'
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. 11 Pitch, pr. bbL 1 73 •
A(h«s, pot, pci ton, "S Pork, Burlington, pei barrel, '"5°
Peart, <34 '4° 7r Lower county <4 5°
Arrack pr. gall. >33 1 ,6 I Carolina »>
Brandy, common, 8° ras » Albany pr. bulhel
Coniac 9° nolPepper, pr.lb. 3?
Braziletto,pr. ton. 40|Pimento '9
Bricks, pr. M. 4 7 (Raisins, best, pr. keg 7
Bread, (hip, pr. cwt. * 33|l>itto pr.jar 3 33
Ditto, pilot 4 iDitto pr. box 333
Ditto, ftnall water, per keg 36 4° R, c e pr.cwt. 344
Beer, American, in bottles, IRofin pr. bariel 2 7®
pr.doi. bottles included, 1 74|Rum, Jamaica,pr. gallon >'6
Ditto pr. barrel, 6 I Antigua »
Boards Cedar pr. M lect, so | Windward 8 &
New England 10 14 I Barbadoei 8 7
Oak 1 4 I Country, N. E. 62
Merchantable pine 2® 24 I ,
Sap, do. IO 6? Sahpetre.pr.cwt. >4 33
t* 1* „ ir .lSafTafra* pr. ton 6 °
——Mahogany, per foot ,o\ P
The .beware .he lb,Hop price., Steel, German pr.lb. 9
for the yard price, add i dol- I .rt . y
, . « I Lnelilb.bliltered. pr. cwt. "0
Jar 33 cents per 1000. I % ■ v -,000
00 r I American pr. ton -*3 33
Brimstone in rolls, pr,cwt. 2 671 Crowley's pr. faggot 1067
Beef, Boston, per barrel 12 ISnake root pr. lb. " *0 4 2
■ Country ditto 9 10 ISoap, Brown per lb. 6
Frefti, prr cwt. 333 4 6 7| White 8
Butter pr.lb. "6| Castile 11
——in kegs 10 * 2 [Starch 7
Candles, Sperm, pr.lb. 47 jSnuff pr. doz. bot. 4 560
Wax 53 i, refined, pr.lb, 4&
Myrth; Wax Sailcloth, Enalifh,No.i ,pr. yard, 4°
Mould taliow 4 « • F dlt ; o 36
Dipped "31 xt tt oc
Cheese, English, pr. lb. «o|- — N-o. 11. 2i>
Country 8 Lump pr. lb 2
Chocolate .8 *o Loar, finale refined
n . „ 0 „ 6-1 Ditto, double do. 33
140 * Havannah, white .4 >6
l0V " , io . H Ditto,brown,
pr. c« . I Muscovado, pr. cwt. 9 12
o ee pr. . JspiritsTurpentinc pr.gallon 27
Coal pr. bulhel 24 33| c r , # An K 1 ruli 00
_ r . , Allurn pr. bulhel 33
Copperas pr.cwt. i b,l • verDOO , 03
Cordage, Amencan, per cwt. 7 9 I 25
C° tton P r - Ib " 27 fM Lilbon 27
Cm rants I
Duck,Ruflia, pr. piece 14 *15 JShipbuild. W. O. frames p.ton, 20
Ravens 11 IDitto Live Oak, 22
Dutch fail duck, »8 ao jD.tto red cedar, per foot 37 45
Fjathers pr.lb. 6 £ | 6?
Flaxfeed pr bu(h. 9- 4°'"° '* ''*
Flour, Superfine pr. barrel . 6 33Mlwhite Oak'hogfhead, 2033
n° mm °A n u heft 5 Red Oak do. ,950
Id L~S«» *'33
Meal,lndian 2 s*\ Bj * el ffi
Shi'p-ftuff' pr.cwt. 140 167 ——^n • 25 I 3
Fust.c pr. ton, 20 Skins Otter, best f»r. piece 467
rulll v J— -Minks 20 40
Gin, Holland, pr.cafe, 4 6t>| Fox, grey 40 80
Do. pr. gall. 9°l Ditto red 12C
Glue, pr. cwt. 21 33j Martins ?4 1
Ginger, white pe f lb, 7| F'iiher? ( 33 67
Ditto, common 71 Bears 3
Ditto,ground pr.lb. IC J Racoons 57 60
Ginseng, 20 2 4| Musk-rats 11 20
Gunpowder,cannon, pr. q.caik, 3,3 4 J——Beaver, pr. lb. 67 133
Ditto, fine glazed 4 I Deei,inhair 20 30
Grain, Wheat pr. buth 100 1 20]
r vc 6 o] r ar,N.Je r re y ,24g a l.p.bbl. 1
Oats 3.5 —Carolina, « gall.
Indian corn pi.hbl 233
Barlev > > 3 Tobacco, J. River, bett ioold. \ 433
Bed thelled pr. Ib. 7j| inferior 3 33
Buckwheat, per hulh. 4c: old 4 6 7
I Rappahannock 3 33
Hemp, imported, pr. ton, 160 150 Coloured Maryland, 533 8
American, pr. lb. 4 5 Dark, 240
Herrings, pr.bbl. 3 I Long-leaf 240
Hides, raw pr.lb. 9 I Eastern-shore 2 2 p 3
Hops ?o| Carolina,new 27 q
Hoglhead hoops, pr. M. 15 1 o]( | ) g
Indigo, French per lb. 1 67: Tea, Hyson pr. lb. 93 128
■ Carolina 1 > 2Q Hyson IHin, 53 6di
Irons, fad pr. ton, '33 33 —-Souchong, s o 93
Iron, Callings pr. cwt. 3 4 Congo, 43 s o
——Bar pr. ton, 84 Bohca, 33 36
Pig 24 ITallow, refined, per lb. 9
Sheet "73 33 Tin pr. box, , 1333 1367
Nail rods 101 33jv T etdigreafe pr. lb. 47 <53
Junk, pr.cwt. 4 5 Vermillion, do. 133 167
Lard, hogs pr.lb. 9 "° Varnish, per gallon qq 07
Lead, in pigs pr. cwt. 5 33 5 6 7! 6 d/
in bars 7 {Wax, Bees pr.lb. 25 27
W hite 10 »o 67 Whale-bone, long pr.lb. 13 30
red 6 4.0 6 6 Wine, Madeira, pr. pipe, 176 226
Leather, foal, pr.lb. 17 20 Lisbon 120 126
Lignum vitae pr.ton, 56° 6 Teneiiffe,pr. gallon 63
Logwood ' 3° Fayal
Mace pr.lb. 9 Port pr. pipe 113 33
Mackarel, bed pr.bbl. 8 Ditto in bottles, pr.doz. 4.
second quality 4 Claret 4 6
Madder, bell pr. lb. 16 20 Sherry pr.gall. go 1 20
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, 33 267 Malaga 7.7 80
Mast (pars ditto x 33
Molasses pr.gall. 33 4 1
Mustard per. lb. 87 COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
-flour, in bottles, pr.doz. 1 20
~ n . j 1 j j 11 .J. London, at 30 days, per / .100 fterl. 466
Nails, 8//. iod.i9.d. and zod. pr.lb. 10 'V t 4
Nutmegs pr. lb. .78 at go oays
Oil, Linseed, pr. gall. 66 /Vmfterdam, 60 days, pr. guilder, 42
Olive 87 90 days, 40
Hercule De Sercey,.
From Lcoganc, IJlar.d of St. Domingo,
MAKfcS and feils all foils of Mugs, Jacks,
Porringers, Cups, Slew-Pans, Lamps, &c.
in Tin, plain or japartned— He also mends old
tin work. As he works cheap, he hopes for the
public encouragement.
No. 23, Racc-ftrect, near Front-street.
Tune p. 2.
HERCULE DE SERCEY,
DE Leogane, Isle de St. Domiuque, iravaille
en fer Blanc, de toute forte de manicres a
coramande et a bon marche.
A Philadelphic, ce 112 Juin, 1793.
No. 23, Race-street, pres From-ftreet.
War Department,
Aug"ft 1 ft, 1793.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
Military Invalids of the United St3tcs, that
the sims to which they are intitled for fix months
of their annual pcnfion, from the 4th day of
March lad, and which will become due on the
sth of September nrxt, will be paid on the fa:d
day by the Com mi filmier s of the Loans, with
in the Sta;es reflectively under the usual rcgu-.
lations.
By Command of the
President of the United States.
H. KNOX, Secretary at War.
512
This d*) h pait'rjhed,
M A T H£ W CAKE Y,
Ni>. 113, Milket-Jliwi, Philadelphia,
No. XIV. ot
Guthrie's Geography,
IMPROVED,
Embelliflied tviih a large Sheet Map'of
Gerznahy an J Switzerland.
THlS'valuable work, will contain {txcUfive
oj the maps in the London edition oj 1792)
m-psol New-Ham|>ftnre, Mailachufeits, Con
necticut, R. I(laud, Vermont, N. York, N. Jcr
fey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Vir
ginia, Kentucky, N. Carolina, S. Carolina,
and Georgia.
No. 1. contains a map of the feat of war in
Europe ; No. 2. a map of Hungary and Euro
pean Turkey; No. 3. a map of the countries
round the North Pole ; No. 4. a whole Iheet
map of the woi Id ; No. 5. a plan of the armil
lary sphere ; No. 6. a map of South- America ;
No. 7. a map of Switzerland ; No. 8. a chart of
the world ; and No. g. a map of Africa.
I Such of the citizens ol Philadelphia, as have
not had an opportunity of examining this work,
are rcquclled to fend for the numbers already
published, in order to fatisfy themselves how
far it deserves their patronage. If,, on infprc
tion,they should not approve of it, their money
will be freely returned.
Besides the great improvements in the Ame
rican Geography, the accounts of France will
be cxtratted from the French Geography, pub
liihed fincc the revolution ; the map of France
will be engraved agreeably to the division into
departments: the history of Ruflia, which, in
the London edition, is carried no farther than
i 77s,isc° n tinued to thelate execrable invasion
of Poland by Catharine : the account ol Swe
den has been compiled anew, and numberiefs
other improvements will be made in this edi
tion.
*. 1r * Subfcnptions are received by the book
fyll-rs in Bollon, New-York, Baltimore, Wil
•mington, Richmond, Charlclton, &c. See.
Augujl 21.
Cts. Dlls.Cti-
S *°
Trealury Department,
jiltguft 10, 1793.
NOTICE is hereby given, that Proposals
will he received at the Office of the Se
cretary of the Treafurv, until the 14th day
of September next inclusively, to t'urnifti by
contiaft the following articles of Cloatbing,
for the use of the United States, viz.
4,800 Hats,
5,120 Stocks,
5,120 Stock-Clasps,
20,480 Shirts,
5,120 Vefb,
Coats,
9,600 Woollen Overalls,
9,600 Linen ditto,
19,200 pairs of Shoes,
9 600 pairs of Socks,
5,i20 Blankets,
320 Caps,
320 pairs of Leather Breeches,
640 pairs of Boots,
320 Jjairs of Spurs,
640 pairs of Stockings,
1,520 Rifle Shirts.
The cloathing to be delivered at the city
of Philadelphia ; one fourth part of the whole
number of suits on or before the 15th of Fe
bruary, one fourth on or before the 15th of
April, and the remaining half 011 or before
the 15th of June, 1794-
The articles mnft be agreeably to such pat
terns as shall be direded by the Secretary for
the Department of War. Payment will be
made as soon as the whole of the articles (hall
have been delivered. eptl4s,
New-Jersey, ) T)Y virtue of a Writ to me I
Sujjcx County, ff. ) JD dire&ed, issued out of !
the High Court of Chancery of New-Jersey, at
the suit of William Shipley against John Ming ■
and others; 1 (hallexpofe to faleat Public Ven- I
«iue, on the sixth day of February next, between
the hours of Twelve and Five in the Afternoon
of the fame day, on the Premifcs, the following
described Tra& of Laud, with itsappurtenanees,
situate in the Township of Oxford and County
of SuflVx, beginning at a Chcfnut Oak Tree, cor
n< rof Daniel Cox's land, and (landing in the
line of a former survey made to Thomas Steven
son, being marked with the letter B. and thence
extending along Coxe's line (firft) south fifty de
grees weft fifty-five chainsand feventy-five links,
to a Black-Oak Tree cornci of Joseph Shinpen's
land (second) south nine degrees and fifteen mi
nutes, weft ninety chains and fixty-five links to
a forked White-Oak Tree, maiked with the let
ters R and B another of the laid Shippen's cor
neis (thiid) thence norih eighty degrees, eaftone
hundied and forty-five chains, to a post on the
loutherly ftde ol Paquaofte-B iver, being also a
cornci of J<»hn Reading's Iland (fouith) thence
north thirty-nine degrees w; ft, one hundred
and thirty-two chains to the place of beginning,
containing nine hundred and thirty acres with
the usual allowance for roads and high ways—
The fame Premifcs ate within eight miles of the
River Delaware, and there i» thereon a conveni
ent Grift Mill with two pair of Stones—a Saw
. MiJl m good repair, wjth a fufficient ftrcam of
water for their use—a Dwelling House, Store
House, and feve»al small buildings.
MARK THOMPSON. Sheriff.
Dated22i day of July, 1793,
MOST etrnefly reqtiejls these of his diflant Sub.
fcnbcrs who are in arrears for the Gazette, to male
foment as foonas pofjible.—Thofe persons who have
received fuhfcription money on his account are dtfired
to remit the fame. The arrearages for the Gazette
have accumulated to aferious amount—Serious as
they areihe only resource to discharge very serious
engagements incurred in the prvfecution 0/ this er
penjwe publication. Philadelphia, Juae s6.
7* 1 C K E T &
In the FEDERAL CITY LOTTERY,
May be had at SAMUEI, COOPER't Ferry
ADVERTISE MEN
THE tDITUR
run thy /.* rvnwifD.
By JHO MAS DO
At the "sttvie HumJc % Au. 41, Jouth Second-Sfrcet t
Medical Tranfa&ions
OK I;' t
College of J'hyfieians
<7 r . ldlct\foi :
\'uit me L Paris.
Piicrin l»»-tids Om
Affo taiefa publijhcd l\ 1.
Dr. US Oh RWCK
On fhc drfcaie* of Chiklirn, with general di
rections for the management oi mtan.» Ik m
ihchirihj adapted both for the ufc of Mcii*
cal Prstt'tioiici s and pnvatt Fjinilic*.
TWO VOLUMES I H» ONE.
Pice $ne do* in rcath boon J.
"4"
} '■'
IvSRAT,of WAR.
For Sale, at M. CAREY's Start,
"Sir. 118, Mai ket-ftreet,
A Sheet Map of the
French, Austrian and Dutch Netherlands, in
which the progress of the present War may
be traced. I'ti" three eighths of a dothr.
And a Map of the Three Northern Diftrifls
of France, divided into Departments
Pi ice 4 cf a dollar.
Maps of the United
States :—Any public spirited gentlemen, pof
feired of material for correi'ting and iuiprov;
ing the Maps of the several States, will lay
M. Carey under very particular obligations,
by communicating them. He is in immediate
want of some for New-Jersey and Delaware;
of wilich States he is now preparing Maps.
Guthrie's Geography:
The fubfcrtption for this wo lc will be con.
tinned open, at the prtfeiif rate of twefve
dollars, till the firft day of November nextj
after which, it will be raised to fourteen dol
lars.
Jugufi >4.
To the Public.
THE Editor of the Gazette of the T'niteb
States, prOposes publifiiing the Papery
under that Title, every Evening, Sunday's
excepted.
To render it interesting as a Daily PuMi
cation, it (hall contain foreign and domtttic,
cominerciaf and political Intelligence Ef-
I'ays and Observations, local and general
Maritime information :—Prices Current of
Merchandize and the Public Funds. Also a
summary of the proceedings of Ctmgrels, and
of the Legislature of this Stattf :—with a
(ketch of Cung'reflional Debates, fee.
Advertizing favors will be gratefully r«-
ceiv^d.
TERMS.
To be printed on paper of the demy fizc ;
but a larger size (hall befubftituted in Decem
ber next.
The price Six Dollars per Annum, to hi
paid half Yearly.
When a fufitient number of Subscribers is
obtained, the publicAion (hall commence. ,
Jn the interim, the Gazette will be publißi
ed twice a week ai ufual.—Subfci iptions art
relpeftf'ully solicited by the Public's humble
servant,
(£3* Subfcriplions are received at the City Tavern,
South Second Street—by Mr. Dobfov, at the Stone
Houje—by other per Jons tvho are in pojfrffion ofjub
fcription papers, and by the Editor, at his
No. 3 A'orf// Fifth-Street.
Philadelphia, July, 1793> .
City of Washington.
January 7th, 1793.
A NUMBER of Lois in this City will be of
fered tor fate at au&ion, by the Commif
fioticrs, on the 17th day of Septembef next.—
One fourth part of the purchal'e money is to hfe
paid down, the residue at three equal anuual pay
ments with yearly filtered on the whole princi
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk to the Com'rs.
Extratl oT an A& of the General Aflembly of
Maryland, concerning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and the City of Washington.
44 Be if ena&ed, That any foreigner may hi
deed or will, hereafter to be made, take and hold lands
within that part of theJaid Territory which lies with
in this State, in the fame manner as ij he was a citi
zen of this. State ; and the fame lands may be con
veyed by hilk, and transmitted to and be inherited by
his heirs or relations, as if he and ihey mere citizens
of this State : Presided, That vo Jhall %
in virjue hereof\ be entitled to any further or other
privilege of U citizen.'*
19. tf
INSURANCE COMPANY.
Philadelphia, July ift, 1793.
NOTICE »s-hereby given to the mertib* is bfr
the Infuranee Company of North Ameri
ca, that the Dirc&ors have declared a dividend
(to this day) of fix per cent on the amount of the
fir ft instalment, and of one per cent per month,
on the Turns paid towards the second ' and thud
instalments, calculating from -he fitft day of
the month following that in which these pay
ments were inade. The Dividend will be paid
trt the Stockholders or their Representatives, at
the Company's Office, (No. 119, south Front-
Street) at any time after the 7th inft.
KBENEZER HAZARD, Src'rv.
As th: me nbtrs of this ionpavy are muck
diffrerfed throughout the United States, the Printers
in the fever al flatus are rcquefled to give the above a.
place in their new/papers.
P L
City of Washington,
Sold by the Booksellers,
DOBSON, CAREY, YOUNG, & CRUKSHANK
rufe>4nf
JOHN FEN NO.
A N S