A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS ANb SATURDAYS ,BY JOHN FENNO, No. 34, NVKTB FIFTH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 111 of Vol. IV.]
FROM THE. GENERAL ADVERTISER.
r F'f\lE interest which the citizens
-I of the United States mult take
in any question which may in the
Jeaft degree appear to implicate
their neutrality, has induced the
editor to colledt all the information
in his power respecting the cafe of
the fliip William, prize to the pri
vateer schooner Citizen Genet, li
belled by the owners of said ftjip in
the Di(tri<ft Court of the United
States for the Diftrkt of Pennlylva
nia.
Robert Findley, fan
Andrew Buchanan,
George Buchanan,
James Hopkirk,
Thomas Hopkirk,
John Dunlop, and
John B.innatyue.
The Ship WiL'iam.
At a JieW
the 14th June, 1793 —The libel in
the aforefaid cafe was read, letting
furth—l'hat Robert Findley, jtin.
Andrew Buchanan, George Bucha
nan, James Hopkirk, Thomas Hop
kirk, J .hit Dunlop, and John Ban
natyne, all fubjet'ts of the king of
Great Britain, were owners of the
Ship William—That the said ihip
011 her voyage to Potovunack river
in the Hate of Maryland, at the dis
tance of nine miles from the coalt
of the United States, received an
American pilot 011 board ; that the
said ship continued the fame icourf'e
outil they arrived within 2 miles of
Cape-Henry, the Southern Promon
tory of Chefapeak Bay, in 5 fathoms
water, and as near the shore as the
pilot thought proper to convey the
Ihip, when she was forcibly seized
by the Citizen Genet, commanded
by Pierre Arcade Johanene. The
libellant then proteltingagainfl and
not admitting the said schooner Ci
lizen Genet to be duly commifiion
ed, infilled that according to the
premifcs the said ship William was
at the time of her being so taken
upon neutral ground, within the
territorial jurifrlic'tion and under
the protection of the United States.
—Concluding with 3 prayer of res.
titution of ship and damages.
To this libel Pierre Arcade Joha
nene appeared on behalf of himfelf
and crew of the Citizen Genet, and
pleaded to the jurifdidiion of the
Court, stating that neither the law
of nations nor the treaty of amity
and commerce with the United
States and the French Republic gave
cognizance to the said court to in
teifete or hold plea refpecfting the
said ship and property. To this
plea the owners of the said ship en
tered their replication, and ilfue
was joined ther eon.
Sketch of the Pleadings in this im-
portanMCafe.
Mr. Dupouceau, on the parr of
the concerned in the Privateer, o
pened the cause. He, after a few
preliminary observations, turned to
the 171 h ariicle of our treaty of ami
ty with France, to (liew ihat it ex
pressly prohibits our raking cogni
zance of prizes brought iiuo any of
our ports by the French. This ar
ticle of the treaty he remarked, on
ly renders the obligations of the law
of nations on this point lirongei ;
una as the treaty secures mutual ad-
Vantages to the two nations, if cer
tainly (he continued) is entitled to
eonfiderable refpetft, The French
are now at war, it is true, and the
■Americans at peace, therefore at
this particular time, it operates mod
favorably as to the former, but a
period may come when Americans
in their turn' may be involved in
war, and find feveraJ of the stipula
tions in said treaty of confideiable
importance to their interests.
Hr nexc entered into a cumprc-
htnfive view of the gci'eral nature of privateer
ing, to (hew that none of out Courts can tiike
cognizance of a£ls committed by either of the
belligerent powers o<*ainft each other. Priva
teers obtain commissions, the nations to which
they belong, alone, can take cognizance of their
proceedings under those comnriiflTions, and an at
tempt in a court o! any .neutral* power to inter
fere is an iilfi ingeaient on the sovereignty of the
state that granted the conimillion. The govern
ment of ail civilized counties cftabLfh tribunaii
for the trial and condemnation of pn*- s captur
ed by their privateers, and in those ■courts »c
---drefs can be obtained, neutral property, hrough
them, will be rHlored, and all matters adjusted.
He turned to Magens to shew an inftauce in
which the piinciple he wifticd 10 tftablifh was
involved. Englilh privateers had seized and
cameo into port Prulliau vcff -ls. (Piuifia being
a neutral power) for having enemy's property on
board ; fbefe seizures were tried in the Enelifii
courts, and f«>me of the property condemned,
and fume not. The Coim of Pruflia, thiough
their mi rafter, expressed to the Englilh Court
their rtilpleafure at these procccdiugs. Mr.
Mitchelf, the Pruflian minister, injifttd, that the
Englilh had no-right to try this pioper y, that
4be (hips ought to be cotifidered as part of the
territory of the nr.tion to whom they belonged ;
that wherever a nation could extend her protec
tion, so far did her territory extend ; that lhips
were as much a part of the territory of a nation
as forts on the boideis of the lea ; the PruHidiis
in their own lhips were perfectly at home ; that
therefore it was agiinft the law of nations to seek
for enemy's property on board, and that since
the qucllion related to the law of nations, at any
rate ihe courts ps England had no light to eie£l
themfclves as judges, and that the bu fine fit could
be properly fettled by negociation only. In ill
Magens, page 463, Mitcln li's representation to
the Duke of Newealtle is recorded. For the
answer, fee .page 487. Mr. Duponceau proceed
ed to ftatc, that in confquence of England's
judging n this cafe, Pruilia proceeded to coun
teract her procerdings by liquidating the da
mages on her part and fecurtng their amount.
This proceeding of Prufiii was geneially com
plained of the courts,of that country to whom
the capture belonged had a right to give a d'ecri
fion in the cafe. So in the cafe before the court,
he contended, the courts of admiralty to which
the capture belonged, alone had a right to deter
mine the cjueflion of prize or no orize.
If the cafe involved a violation of our territo
ry? it belonged to the fov reign power of the
United S aics to seek redress by negociation,and
on the principles of the la at of nations the ques
tion would be determined. He cited 2. Byn-
Kerfhoek, 177, to shew that if we ast in an hos
tile manner againll our enemies on the territoiy
ot a friend of both paities, the offence is given
to tl.e sovereign that has power over that terri
tory.
Libel filed,
Ke cited Woodifon's second leflure, 425, to
prove the fame point.—-Hp referred to the 4th
Cooke's ii. failures, ijs, to {hew, that before the
merits of a cafe of capture on the high fcas cia
be brought in the court of a neutral country, it
must be (hewn, that the country to which the
capture is brought is in a ftaic of amity and
peace with the parties, and that the foveieigns of
(he countries to Which the parties belong, are 41-
so in a state of amity and peace.
1 he cafe before the court involved a queftiqn
of violation of the territory of the United States,
the action is brought by Briiifh fuhjecls and the
court prayed in a collateral manner 10 determine
a queltion in which the fovereiguty of the nation
is concerned, without giving an opportunity 10
that nation to be heard in its behalf. The Bri
tish fubjr&s who conceive themfeWcs aggrieved,
he said, had two remedies. In the fiift place
they might apply to the courts in France,where
a candid heating would be had-, and where fe~
curity was given by Capt. Johanene in the sum
of 50,000 livres, to arifwei any demands for da.
mage* wrongfully committed. Their fccond
remedy was an application to the Executive of
the United States ; they could tell the Execu
tive, that in conlequence of a violation of the
territory ot the Union bv a Frcnch privateer, we
arc immediate fuffcrt rs, we demand protection
and expe6t redress.
It would then be incumbent on the Executive
to bring the bufmefs before the proper tribunal,
and a decifson would be obtained by negociati
on with the agents of the sovereignty of France.
It would be, he remarked, for the good of
mankind, if a tribunal could be cftablifhed, hav
ing the fame relation to all the powers of the ci
vilized world, that our federal courts have to
the several dates, or that an analogous institution
in Switzerland has to the separate Swiss Can
tons : such a tribunal would often be able to fet
tle disputes, for the determination of which na
tions now fly to arms. But in the preferit (late
of things, nego iaiion is the only means of de
termining these national queitions; in the re
cent cafe of the (hip Grange, these were the
m ans —tKe ess €t is known.
This cafc wouid have embarrassed any court
of justice in the United States ; but inthecourfe
ol ..micahle ncgociation it was fettled 'O the fa
tisfad'on of the United Siiit*. No doubt if the
present cafe had been cariied to the fame tribu
nal, an equitable decifiou would also have ob-
tamed.
He turned to ?.d Vattel. ch. § y fct 7. 65, 66, 67,
68, to ihew. that nation* h-ivc a 'igfrt to do
justice ; when justice i» Tcfufed ; bul
wot a tight intheti.-ft inftdnce 10 attempt to do
therofelves justice the medium of their
own tribunal.
441
Saturday, June 22, 1795.
,V. ">ext adverted to the treaty, and Obfer-ed
generally, that treaties should never be
to forced interpretations. He turned to ad Vat
tel, ch, 17. to enforce that opinion Vattcl lays
it down, thai no part of a treaty Ihonld be fuf
fered to be interpreted which is plain without
interpretation.
Hff took notice of the effe£iof a breach of one
article of a treaty, 2d Vattcl. ch. 13, f.ivs in
strong terms, that the violation of one clause of
a treaty renders null the whole, not only because
of the connc&ion between the fubi<-& ofvarious
clauses, but because elaufes very <ilflirtiilar are
often nratually granted by way of comptomife,
find therefore the breach of one tends to destroy
the balance intended by the framers of thetreaty.
He recapitulated, and Hated as the result of
his argument : That prizes IbouJd be tried in
the court of the country to whom the captor be
longs ; that a neutral power has no tight to en
quire into the validity of . prizes brought into
their ports, and expressly so oy treaty, as it re
lates to France and the United States' ; and that
queliions in which the sovereignty of .States is
involved can only be fettled by negociation.
Upon thefc grounds which he had endeavored
to elucidate, h<schent pleaded to thejut ifdiclion
of the Court.
He cone Med by tha*. if the pre
fect application to th«S court was fuccefsfu!, we
might in a iimilar circumftancc he involved on
the other fide, and after having offended France
by an encroachment on her sovereignty, off, nd
Gicat-Sritain in the fame way. He closed by
forne observations on the importance of keeping
clear of the disturbances which agitate Europe.
M. Sergeant, before the court adjourned,
wiPned merely to turn to some authorities omit
ted by his colleague. The present contest is
between Englifli fubjc&s and Fiench citizens,
and the United States have no immediate con
cern in it. Independent of treaty; the law of
nations does not allow a thiid power to judge
between two nations at war. 1. Vattcl s. 18,
and 3, Vat. s. 191, to this point. 2. Inft. s. 335,
'38, *39, to the fame. Douglass, p. 56c, lays,
no cafe of an admiralty court of a neutral nation
attempting to judge between two belliger- nt
powers i the preemption, the*), that none exists.
The court adjourned to the afternoon.
(To bt continued.)
| From Port-au-Prince papers.]
ADDRESS
Of the Merchants of the town of Port-au-Prince* to
the National Civil ComntiJJioners, on board the
America, a French 74 gun'fkip in the road of
Pvt-au-Prince, dated the 8M of April, 1793 —
[tour days hejore the severe cannonade took place,
of which the particular i have appeared in former
papers.]
AS long as we had any hopes remaiuing
that an accommodation would prevent
the misfortunes that are ready to bur ft upon
Port-au-Prince, we did not think it our duty
to trouble you in relation to the private con
cerns of our commerce. At pre lent every
thing reminds us that we have every thing to
fear ; we? Ihould be blame-worthy then if we
did not exert ourselves, in the name of that
national commerce whole conf:dence we pos
sess, to make such representations as will
serve to the advancement of its intercil.
\Ve (hall not here undertake the defence of
an unfortunate town, now for three years pafl
the viftiin of perfidious condndt: we will beg
leave to observe, however, that it is painful
for its inhabitants to be accused of cl imes
without being fw3er<?d to exculpate them
selves ; to fee themselves menaced with pu
nifhinent without being informed what crimes
are laid to their charge. Will the delegates
of the nation condemn them without a hear
ing ; will they indifcriniinatelv involve in
their profciiption the friends of lawful go
vernment, the faithful children of the parent
country, and those who are accused of being
declared enemies of both ?—No ; it is impos
sible the breajts of the comm.flioners can har
bor so cruel a thought. But, citizens com
miifioners, if we fhoitld for a moment flatter
ourselves with a ray of hope, how can we
otherwise then despair when we refledt that
by your proclamation of the 21ft of Jaft March
you involved us all in an indiscriminate fen
tertce of fufpic on, and held as certain truths
t-he slanderous affertidns of our enemies, car
rying despair into every heart b> your threats
of a deplorable transportation of the mer
chants of Port-au-Piince from their homes
and properties. What citizen would not
tremble, however intiocent he might be, to
fee his name on the lilt of the prolcribed; to
b* fsp* ated from bis wife, his children, his
property 9 from those various great and lacred
concerns which are entrusted to him, and to
be dragged like a criminal to the terrible tri
bunal of the National Convention of France !
In our hands remain the fortunes, and per
haps the last resources of those valuable men,
to whom the republic of France owes its
prosperity. In defending their interests, we
defend those of the mother country, who will
find in their generous and inexhaustible pa
triotism the means of refitting the enemies cf
liberty ; and yet, for fifteen days pad ail our
business is suspended. An embargo has been
put upon our drogumg veflTels, that keep up a
commercial connexion with a'd parts of tte
[Whole No. 455.]
colony,, supply ti'ofV With proviltons sviwch
cannot be resorted to bv vefliis lVoni foreign
parr?, and serve as iranfporf tor rt*
commodities Mfitl> whicn our foreign (hips are
laden. And how /hall we an Twer the private
engagements we have made ; how flip ply the
dertiands of our correfpondt nts in Europe, if
all our abilities are thus fetureti ?
The armament In our harbor wears a me
nacing aspect, arjd the land fortes collected
from the wellerji quarter, are brought hither
to annihilate the last hopes of national com
merce infteatl of aiding the citizens of Port
au-Prince and Croix des Bouquets to fuppoi t
them. At this instant the revolters are waft
ing and burning the rich poflefHons in Cul de.
Sac; inflead of hallening to deft toy the vil
lains, you arm againlt a town that is atfually
at war with them, and which begs you for
peace. You refufe all intercourse with us,
rejert the deputations we have sent to yon,
and ftiew every hostile disposition. Alas ! do
you perceive how much future mifchieHs the
confeqtience of fitch steps. Do you knew that
we have on Ihore here our papers and preci
ous effects, and merchandize the vaiu« of
which.is inestimable? that Heither these pa
pers nor these articles of merchandize are ouf
own, but that we are merely the trustees of
the greater part ? that rheir deftrti&ion would
occasion nutnberlefs failures, which failuies
would bring on the ruin of national commerce,
already (hocked by the misfortunes it lias
ftiftained ; and, finally do yon know. MelTis.
Commiflloners, that you will be refpoi fible for
these loßes, and that fix millions of nffln tu
nate people, who are filpported by commerce,
will with cries of despair demand vengeance
on the National Convention.
Can it he your intention to set at defiant#
this awful refpnnlibility, and thereby reduce
us to defpaii } we Can no longer doubt it,
since the orders you have given to the Cap
tains of the merchant vefiels to anchor out
side of .the ships of war. What can be your
designs ? will you proceed to the last extre
mities against a town whole petitions "you
have refilled to heat i we now declare to vott
in form that the order you have given to the
mercantile Captains cannot be executed
without eflentially injuring the concerns of
trade. Indeed, only call your eyes on the
lituation of the vetTels in the road, few of
them are loaded or even ballasted j it would
be next to impolfible that they can go out of
the harbor, or be conducted into the groutyi
without being exrofed to confiderabie (ja
ma ge, and probably to a total loss. Bifidesj
moll of the Captains have their cargoes on
fliore, which they are obliged to ar'd care
fully : and how can they attimi so this dlity.
if you order them away to the grand road s at
so confiderabie a diftanee from their property.
Will you aofwer for it, that on your attack
ing the town the commercial magazines will
be refpefted ; and would you not be held re
sponsible for the lotfes that might happen
through plunder or conflagration >
It is impoflible to calculate the evils at
tendant upon civil war; and not one of t : -enj
but is a mortal stab to the interests of trade,
Citizen commiflioners, before you procced to
extremities, reflect that peace is for the ad
vantage of this colony, an.l that Fiance stands
in need of her commerce, and that you your
lelves will be held seriously lefpon/ible fur thq
loss of either. What is the meaning of that
general embargo laid solely on this port
which puts a stop to all our business and octa
fions immenle lofles to commerce. What
means that obstinate (ilence you keep not
withstanding our prefllng and repeated Ibfici
tations to you to explain yourselves What
mean tlio e threatening fleps are taking
against a town on whose fate a very larg£
(hare of the national commerce depends ?—!.
Inline, what conftruftion are we to put upon
the orders you have given to the Captains of
the trading veflels to retire outside of the
fliips of war '—Is it really your design to can
nonade the town, and to deftrny in one in
stant the merchandize and debts due to the
national trade; for such will be the conse
quence of the least ast of hoftilityon our part".
We repeat to you, is it a time wheo tI,S
revolters lay waste and burn the rich po(i
feifions on the plain, when they are ruining
the sources of national commerce, that you
think it your duty to exci'e a civil war in
western province by arming fourteen pari/h
----cs against one. Is it not rather your duty to
destroy the revolters before you think of re
eftabliftting order in a p ace where ail is qui.
et—and do yoa suppose you will not have to
answer tor the conflagrations and devasta
tions whicharedaily committing in the plains,
for want of the stipulated relief, which your
proclamation has prevented the neighboring
pari/hes from fending.
Citizen comniiflioners, we nowdccla»e to
you that this address is to be printed and fq
be transmitted to all the commercial settle
ments of the republic, that we transfer to
yourselves all the reTponObility we Jay under
to our constituents, and that we will notify
to them, that if they fufler lofles, we have
used every argument with you to p.event
than. You are ruining the colony irfiead off.,vir» It, ard t aitr pretence of »ve-»'n» *<•
tVonts wliich ['( .Me h*s m»er %»u
will foo'i pinnae her into mow meg, .
and conftcrnatioiV JUmMine* tltei; Jo»r in
tended attack, gi»' peace to the *it>» nr ot
Port au Prmee, a.vl be convinced that tney
are wortbv of the French republic, anJ da
not merit fl.mder or alvd'e. Suffer truth to
/bine i-ito VGU, and turn not away IroHl t'-e
mirror we*l«>Ul up 10 In a frort tme
y 0 „ no Ik- ali-e to look at it ; t he
iii»STtii"«s we piecia « : il I--I »|'on you.-
own head? prefe tiy, ».:d >.->» wil! clin rrf.ict
that »o» had not p.eventer; lui-ro.
Hmri'et of national cwfi lcncv, the v.vcc- «>l
commerce Ought ro h-ve fnine influence on
you. Site ha! Lome rignt to a Ipec'?-! ,n-..r-c
----tion, and vou cannot without afli"R 9 crimi
nal patt towards your country, expo'c be r
beft.interelK t«<lrftr»fHo.i.
[The wasligiwd by near. lixty
•merchants, and trading companie» in P»i<-
au Prince ; tie cannonade, not»vithftiHulii'-£
took pi ire on the I 2th (t'onr dav; ofrer the
d*te of the abow) for the real'oot men,ti»ued
in th; cwininiflioiiets letter.]
Foreign Intelligence,
A LAt! UHVU AT BOSTOK
VIENNA, March 13
THE latett accounts from Condanti
nople Hate, that the Sultan has pub
licly declared to live in peace with all
the neighboring powers of the Otoman
empire. His highness does not harbor
the smallest fear with regard to the arma
ments made by Russia i>> the Black Sea.
The Ruffian charge d'affairs at Conlbin
tinopJc has declared that those armaments
had no other tendency than to repuife in
a proper manner the French,who had been
talking of attacking the Crimea. The
Sultan has likewise gi\en orders to (end
Turkilh pilots on board of all, those
French fhip3 in the Archipelago, which
for some time pad have captured (hips un
der Ruffian colours.
A deputation of 2000 Poifs have
waited on his Imperial Majesty, re
questing to serve in the Aullrian ar
my, to avenge the execution of
Louis XVI. on those who voted for
his death.
Our court will not only conclude
a treaty of alliance with England,
and likewise with Holland, Lot a
certain convention will take place
with those powers oh which it will
turn out to the ad vantage of all par
ties. A treaty is also to take place,
between Austria and PrufHa, and
the importation of French wines in
to the rertitories will be entirely
prohibited.
The accouchinentuf he>" Imperial
Majesty, 'he Empiefs, is expetfted
to take place the middle of April,
and public prayers have been or
dered for her Majesty's faf'e deli
yery.
APRIL I J.
The Senate of Venice lately gave
order* 10 the French charge d'af
faires in that city, to takedown the
arm* of the French republic from
his hotel ; bur the latter not having
complied with tbefe orders, with
in the time appointed, the
caused them to be ignomiuioufly
taken Jiiwn by some llone masons
attended by an escort of aooShirris.
His Imperial majefly has sent orders to
the prince of Saxe Cobourg, to fend hi
ther under a proper escort, the French
general Bournonville, his adjutant, and
the members of the French national con
vention, n- w (late prisoners. Hismajef
ty has farther given orders to his serene
highness, to enjoin the officer who com
mands this escort, to halt at the kit
poll before Vienna, to transmit ( fficial
notice to the Aulio council of war, of
the arrival of the piifoners. We aie '-tf
fured that they will be imprifoncd in the
fortrefs of Spielberg in Moravia.
The Hates of the. Auftiiaw Nether
lands have requeued 10 fend a deputation
to our comt; and their request has been
granted.
- AIX-LA -CH AP E LLE, Api it 20.
The po(} brings iiHclliaence of
I,ord Elgin's rettini from CafiVl to the
King; of Prnßia's camp. He had been to
Caflel to conclude a treaty, f r troops to
be fmniflud by the Landgrave of Hefle
Caflel. The number is reported to be 8
thousand men.
It is Itrotiglv reported here, that
the g.n'rifon of Mayence has offered
to surrender, on condition of obtain
ing the honors of war, in marching
out, and to take wi:h t hem artillery
and stores. The conditions have
been refufed. and t lie King of Prus
sia approaches nearer and nearer to
the town, in order to bombard it.
It wag expected the bombardment
would begin on the 241b inllani.
FRANKFORT, April 13. ,
Madame Daniels, mHlrefe to general
Cultine, has been uken in men's clothes
by the PruffiaM at Guoterflilum. It is
fa id that flie hail 36,000 French crowns
with her,
COLOGNE. April 19.
At four o'clock yefteiday morning pre
netdl Dumouiter and two other officers
at-rived at this place, and after changing
liwiiVs, continued llieir route toWJtS#
Schweitz.
LOWE It RHINE, April 20.
During the course of this week 1560
Fiench prifoncrt, and among them lixty
(wo officers, of Cuftine's acM arrived at
YVefel, and were placed in Citadel.
General Dumourier pafled through
Aix lalV Wednesday, Madame Sillery
and Mridamiofelle Epalite d'O'leanf and.
Pamela, preceded him the day before.
BRUSSELS, April 26.
That part of the combined army, con
fiding »>f Aultiians and Pruflians, com
(Oanded by gen. Clairfay t, which threat
ened Lisle, and had taken feveial advan
tageous pofuiohs round that plate, h-M
quilted them, in order to advance a
gaintt Coti.de and Valenciennes, which
will probably be the two pMticipaV poi'nti
of attack.'. While this
effecting, the c°ip s commanded by lieut.
gen. De la Tour, after having given. a
falfe alarm to the entrenched camp t>f
Maubuge, advanced agamft that plate to
blockade it, and to cut off entiiely its
'.communication Vith Valenciennes,
meufnrcs were attended with the desired
rfucceft
On the 23d, a very smart engagement
took place between the advanced polls
in the neighbouihood of Maubeuge.—
The French having advanced in great
numbers, forced at fird fomc pods of
chasseurs, but soon after our people be
ing teinforced, obliged the enemy to fall
back in disorder.
April 12. On the nth, 12th, and
13th, feveial bloody actions have taken
place in the environs of Conde and Valctr
ciennes, in which the French were found
to give wfiy, which, however, was not
done but with the moll obdiuate resist-
ance
April 27. Yederday, andthe day be
fore, 4000 Hanoverian troops paired here
on their way to the frontiers to join the
Er.gliftt troops. The fine appearance of
this corps excited the admiration of all
the inhabitants.
A RANJEUZ, April 10.
The Madrid Gazette has of late been
filled with a register of patiiotic offers,
which Hill continue to be made with ala
crity and zeal. The Duke deja Infanta
do has preferred the king with a regi
ment of 1200 men, equipped in every
refpeft—they have 8 battalion guns, 2
Seld pieces, and 4 howitzers, with the
necessary ammunition and baggage, wag
gons, mules, and the CaifTe tiu Regiment
(locked with a large ftim of ready caih.
Another Grandee; has also raifcd a te
giment on his estates ; and several have
paid to the Royal treasury a vpluntary
gift of iOjoool. in hard and ftrrling mo.
nev.
T L .e and all the ladies of the
Court, are busily employed in making
lint.
PARIS, April S.
Yesterday five determined pcrfons
went our of Paris, who had sworn
to arrelt Dumourier or to kill him.
General Cuftine writes, that lie'
has been betrayed by Gen. Newin
ger ; that by treachory and the
cowardice of part the army, he
has loft a rlecifive battle on the Ana.
Gen. Newinger is gone to the ?ne
my, who have fcized the gieaier
part of the artiilery. Gen, Cuiline
has left a at Mayenne, and
has retired to Landau. What ad-ds
to these new misfortunes is, thatthe
army of Vofges has been abandoned
by that of Moselle.
ExtraCt of a letter from Lille, April 4,
Yesterday was very «|tiier—a camp
is forming on the plains of Faux
bonrg lie la Mandeleine, and ano
ther at Cade], between B.ergiie?
Baelleul.
442
LONDON.
rf.om the of May 3 ]
7 OFFICIAL.
Of Ik* Sartit from Cgfel.
Commumoued »> » ff °™ e",CT
ant General Schon field to the Duke of
Bruntwick Lunenburg.
" XT" OUR Highness has probably been
X informed by Major Scherl, of the
artillery, of the late ass.iii of the 15 th,
according to the laiell advices of the day
and the information obtained from the
p-Jfoners and deserters from the enemy—
their fortic wasdi(Jofed in three columns
eompofed at ieaft of I 2,OCX) men. Their
principal objetf of attack was Knlkheim,
and the grand redoubt us Ma'&ack, when
tl>e ttvemy succeeded in penetrating the
Hcfiia« right wing, ili a, manner almolt
imperceptible ; . but the firmnefs of the
Htffiar.s did not permit them to finith
heir dcvallation ; the enemy in turn irre-
itrie»eabiy losing one piece of their cannon
while those which th.ey Bailed tip of ouis
way a gain-be rendered serviceable. The
polt of Biceric was also ae warmly aflail
ec), as defended by Majoi Spitnaus, with
t>yo companies of dismounted chafleurs.
The enemy left 60 men upon the ground
on their retreat,
•' Our left wing at Koftheim was at
tacked with 3 or 4,000 men and 4 pieces
of cannon ; they forced the c;ate, h»it did
not long keep pofTeffion, as I had no soon
er determined upon the mode of a com-
Jailed attack than I ordered two battali
ons of my left wing, under General Vit
tenghoffen, to march againlt them pio
tefted by my batteries. On this notation
I regret the loss of Lieutenant Borftcll,
and fix brave soldiers of the regiment of
The Hessian troops were fu:
Croufaz.
taincd by Lieut. Gen. de I-indt, with 3
battalions of infantry, and two fq'.iadrons
of cavalry, itotwithftanding Kofthtim was
then vigbrojlfly attacked ; ill fine, the
French were repulsed in all parts. The
number of prifonersis not yet known. —
'The killed 011 the enemy's fide are much
more numerous than ouis—ithey left 200
at lead {lettered 3bout in different places.
We b.nve lot only twe:aty men ; so that
notwithdandi'tg tbft non-importance of
this renco nitre, I cannot help edeeming
it as a fiefh proof of the decilive superior
ity which his majedy's arms will ever ob
tain ovei tliofe of our enemies.''
May 4
; It is Hated in a Jacobin paper of "this
morning,that the French executive coun
cil i haw given orders to evacuate Savoy.
H'lvtr this intelligence has come, is not
(luted, but it certainly is not improbable,
as the-French would find it difficult lon
ger to maintain their usurped tyranny o
yei- that unhappy country. Why this
circuinlijuice fliould lead to a fepaiate
peace with England, we are at a loss to
jdivine. 1
Minifteis yefteiday received letters
from France, by the way of Dieppe and
Brighthelmlione, stating that on Friday
last, the 26th inftj. the Girortd'e party
had gained a complete triumph over the
Jacobine faction, and that Danton, Ro
befpi'erre, Marat, and many other# had
been maffa'cred, that they had appointed
.a„aew executive council, and that they,
were in fuH possession of the government.
This news Mr. Pitt lead to the commit
tee aflembled for cbnhdering of the
means of atMing the disordered credit of
the country ; and lord Grenville mention
ed it in the house of Lords ; but neither
of them declared that it came to their
hands upon authority that they could im
plicitly rely.
It is'fad that the leading members of
the executive council of Fiance are well
disposed to offer tenns of peace to this
couqtty almost on any conditions. In all
the debates in the national convention,
the members seem to be particularly
guarded in their expieiTi ms concerning
this countiy ; anc! it is well known M. de
• Chauvelin has been very ungraciously re
ceived in France from the opinion entei
• tained that he was too impetuous in his
: behaviour towards qur court, by which
! he precipitated his country into a wai. It
i is further said, that the committee of ge
[ neral defence in Paris was reduced from
25 to 9, ir. oi(Jcr to conduit the public
aiF.iirs ill general,ami a ueaociaiion
with this country in particular, with
("ecrecy.
The (locks ycfterday h>d a rife
of above I per cent, owing to a re
port that peace would speedily take
place, This report ho .vever, found
ed on letters from Hoiiand, w.is by
no means generally credited.
Siwerre, ,the cowf>«niSanr gent*
ral ui Pii», iitik q%arrtrtlpd wiiii
the tutivcntiun a*««i {U«.c»<riiaou» of
Paris, whose orders, he it 4
impoilible for him any linger 10
general, it fcemt, con
trary to tnV*4ujui»ction» of there
two authorities, has lately
him to degrade leveial o3iceis to
the rank of privates : and a decree
of acculation may punilh him as he
deferres for the ai r ti«e pan tie toyk
in the murder of Louis the XVlih.
Several of the factions of ! J arts
have petitioned he executive a,i
ini niftration to biiug the bioojy
Santerre, the commandant, to trial,
for his difubedience of the cunlti-
uiied authorities
The.Paris Journal of the 32d alt.
the latetl has tome to our
haiKls, states that adjutant general
Bei|e'e had defeated ilie infurgenis.
(o as te open the cotiunuificaiiuii
between l'Oiieni and Nantz. One
of their chiefs, named Bariilais, had
been execqted in (he lacier city, be
tween which and Angers, following
the co'urfe of the Loire, the in fin- ,
gents '.till maintained their ground.
The coimniflioriers of the French
convention have imprisoned the
commandant, and the chief engi
neer Dnbourg, of the Fort de '.a Li
berie, near Brell, of hav.
ing neglected to take the proper
precautions for the defence of that
part of tbc French poils, tUc
expeifted invasion of the Enghili.
Lord Boringdon, who returned to
town yesterday noon from the con
tinent, where he has been about 12
months, met general Dunlourier on
he road towards Vienna, three days
j iijvney on the other fide of Lie<je.
I'lie Liegois are extremely vexed
hey did not recognize the French
Tencral while he was in tha; city, as
hey certainly would have detained
ur.i made him accountable for (bin 6
if t he government property which
le and his army pillaged during
heir Hay there.
May 5. Yellerday a melTenger
omt from the bead quarters of ilit
Pruliian army, near iVlentz, wiiicli
Sie left on the iSiii, wlien no inaie
rial even: liacl occuricd. Die fame
niellenger parted through B; ufl'cli,
oil the 30th, where there was an
equal barrenness of intelligence.-—
On the northern frontiers tff France
the operations of the combined ar
mies are delayed by the necellity
for bringing up magazines—on tbe
ea(t, Mentz and Landan prevent the
progress of the Prufiians.
May 6. The Jacobins indulge in
the abfnrd hope, that a few weeks
may fee France dictating a peace
to Europe. These gentlemen, it
mnft be conCerted, are verj sanguine
indeed.
The memoirs of Gen. Dumnurier
mult be particularly iiuereftiiig—
We hope he will not long refrain
from gratifying the public curiosity
by a publication of them. He writes
with a facility and a force which
inuft make literary compofiliou very
little labor to him.
Dumourier has declared that he
would have saved Louis XVI. if he
could have found one man of firm
nefs anil courage in the whole Na
tional Convention, the majority of
whom were royatHN in their hearts.
What a severe is this up
on rhe character of the French na
tion !
Of the martufaflnring towns af--
fefted b) the present war, Manchef'
ter ftatuls the for«mofh The num
ber of bands out of employ there is
very a;>"eat ; and in coiif«4"f" cr
thereof/that place daily tui'ni(hes
a proportionate number of men_ to
the parties beating up for recruits.
The average price of sugar, com
puted from tlie returns inade i*
week ending April 3, )»
per crt't. exclusive of the or
cuftoins paid or payable thereon, ori
the importation thereof to Grew
Britain.
DOVE U, April 2J,
A report is in circulation, that the
royalilt General GMlon, in Biitan
ny, lias been killed in an engage
ment with the patriots, was cm into
8} pieces, and fetu into as many
French departments.a.n s we r.
Of sixty Parilhes in Britanny, tncam[itJ at Son.
micros, to the Proclamation of tie Com
miffioßers of the Convention.
" In the Name of the only true God, whom
<< you have Abjured !"
" IVE are forced to return an answer to
your Third Proclamation, the only intention
of which, like that of both the preceding, is a
disarming, which good sense and reafun will
not permit us to comply with ; nor to submit
to your laws, which we will never acknow
le'lge, were we even to lose the lajl drop of
our blood. Yourfinguinary character, well
known by your massacres, with which you
have had the audacity to reproach our chiefs,
dies net permit us e*ven to doubt refpeS'tng
your deceitful promise. ' Tour inveterate de
clarations againjl our chiefs merit only the
mnjl profound contempt. Our m»JI ardent
deft eis to give battle to your invincible ar.
m y °f P' ltr " )ts • Our furefl Jhield agaitrfl
your arms is a God, the avenger of crimes,
as is proved in different attacks in which we
have 10/ l only two man : and injlead of fear
iig their fury , which you fay you are unable
to refirain, we djfire that you may add to it
your own per final courage. IVe fee too well
to ftjfcr owfeives to be [educed by your deceit
ful spec chcs, of which iue havi been neither
affefled nor intimidated by any of your threats.
The rnafk i: removed< the yokf isfhaken >Jf —
and even if it were not, w should do it at
prefr.t. V/s abjure aUfubmiffion to your laws
arid protection.
" It is needl/fs for you to make any more
mention of Dish ifis, Departments or Muni
cipalities, *JM-ttr*»td. force tf -which, ive are
in no dread of. After the abife which the
jirjl deputies made of our inflrudtons and pe
titions, so often rejected, as not being conform
able to your laws, we declare in the face of
the •jniverfe, that we will acknowledge none
cf them, and that we adopt only the ancient
laws, which u e propose to re-ejlablijh by the
sword, and the ejfufion of Democratic blood,
if the patriots do not abjure their errors, and,
as thefirfl proof of compliance with our wijh
ts, begin by felting at liberty our Clergy, and
by concurring to raise that throne which you
have overthrown. Tou are wrong if you
think that the cause of the Nobility is the only
end of the injur reSion of the People—it is
their own cause which they defend at pre fen!.
Number!, fs ads of opprejfion, the decree of
the Confiituent and Legislative AJfeml'.ies,
and thofeof the Convention, have forced them
to take,up arms, which they are determined
nrrier to lay dototi until yau have dijftpattd
their fears by a Proclamation. To accom
pliib this, grant the prayer of their petitions.
Such is the will of all the united parifljes.
April, the First Tear of the Reign of
LOUIS XVII."
( Signed)
DECLARATION e/GEN. DUMOURIER.
Having learnt thatfufpicions have been
excited againjl my intentions, on account of a
pretended connexion supposed to exijl between
me and Phillip d'Orleans, a French Prince,
too well known under the name of Egalite,
and being anxious to preserve that ejleem of
which I daily receive the mojl honourable
teflimonies, I tale the ear'liejl opportunity oj
declaring that I am ignorant whether there
daily exijls an Orlean faP.iun ; that I never
had any connexion with the Prince who is
supposed to bt at the head of it, or who is the
pretence fftr. it. e.J hat / never ejleemed him ;
and that Jince the fatal epoch when he tore
, asunder the bonds of blood and offended againjl
all known laws, by criminally voting for the
Death of the unfortunate Louis XVI. againjl
whom he declared his opinion with atrocious
impudence, my contempt for him has been
dunged into a jufl aversion, which leaves me
no other d ftre than that of feeing him deliver-,
cd over to the severity of the laws.
With regard to his children, 1 think they
pojffs as many virtues as he does vices. They
have perfeQly fervid their country in the ar
mies which I commanded without ever shew
ing ambition. I have a great ftiendjhip for
the eldrfl, founded upon the bcfl merited eft am,
and I am certain, that, injlcad of e icr aspir
ing to mount the throne of France, he would
f,y to the end of the world rather than be for-,
eed to it. Infhort, I declare, that if, .ijter
the crimes of his father, or by the atrocious
refills of the fins offaßion and anarchy, he
Hum!d f.nJ bins If in such a situation as to
waver between the virtues -which he has hi
therto shewn, and the bufnefs of taking ad
vintage of the dismal catnflrophe which has
flunked the fenjible part of the nation, and all
Europe, in mourning, and that if he fhouLl
then bt ever so jar biinded by ambition as to
aspire at tlx crown, I would devote him to
ftcrnal hatred, and entertain for him thefame
contempt <wbich I have for his father.
(Signed) " DUMOURIER."
• Francfoi t, April 20.
Philadelphia, June 22.
ABSTRACT OF FURTIIhK
EUROPEAN INTELLIGENCE,
Received by an arrival at Bojlon, which 4/o't London
A fl?et of 16 (hips of war have failed frqm
Fsrrol in Spain, to cruize agaiuft the French
in the Mediterranean.
Admiral Goodall's squadron has taken 16
veflk-ls from Marseilles and Cette, and-fent.
them for Gibraltar.
The combined army which had invested
Ltfle, under Gen. Clairtait, has quitted its pi>-
fitions in the neighborhood of that place, in
order to advance against Contle and Valenci-
ennes.
The bombardment ofMentzbegun the i6th
April.
A report on the 19th April at Ghent, stated
that the Marquis de la Fayette died on the
I2th : , in th| old prison in Berlin.—7his wants
confirmation.
A lette from Gen. Dampierre, jof the 15th
April, informs the Convention, that his army
had'gained a considerable advantage over'the
Auftrians—who were driven as far as St.
Amand. The letter is dated at Valenciennes,
Gen. Dampierre's aid-de camp informed the
Cortvention, that a mifundddianding prevail
ed in the combined army.
A letter from the Commiflioners to Cuftine's
army llates that the troops renew-, d ihe oath to
die for Liberty—<md that they burn with ddire
to £,npage thefneiny. In the fitting.of the 201 h
April the Convention decreed, that the petition
signed bv 35 f'&ions and adopted bv the Coun
cil General of the commune of Paris, is ca
lumnious, and ordered copies of the decree to
be sent to the depaitments.
The decree of accufaiion against Marat was
adopted, .
Mira-ncfa ort the 20th April publvthed
a jnftificatory mcm iriol in exculpation of him
feli—i» which he accuftt Dumouricr of Trea
son.
Marat is in the Abbaye prison, and
is Cent to Mat-failles—BnfTot,
Gcnfonne, Got fas, and seventeen otheis, wcic
impeacned by thr 48 fe&ions on the 151b April.
— The combined powets mfift on placing (he
Dauphin on th throne, as preliminary to any
treaty with frznrt—Savoy is evacuated bv Ge
neral KclJerman —The anny of Cuftinf is 36,000
strong, and is potted at Candelle,Laughterburgh,
and on the htighihs of Weifl*enbur«h—The
French have invaded Switzerland, and have tak
en S»leuie—One of Cuflin 's aids, Coquebert,
after accpfiu* that Generr.l of being a traitor,
(hot himfelf— Blanchelandc, late governor of
Hifpaniola, was executed the 15th April.
The English papers forrher stare, that eight
General Orticers have been guillotined in Paris ;
on the 18 h Apttl Col. do Vaux, one of Dutnou
rier's aids l'uffi red, and Col. Vaujour belonging
to the dragoons was afterwards beheaded.—
Some accounts represent that order is rcftored
on the coast ot Butapuy. The French have de
clared Ihe trade of the Hanfe Towns to be neu
rral. Gcnetal Dampicrre now Commander in
Chiei of th French army, had the title of Count
before the revolution—he is about 42 years old
—ol a itrong constitution, aclive, calm and un
daunted in the rnidft of danger The Emperor
has sent whole service of plate, worth two
millions ofdollats, to the midt.
tfc. (Si. fcJV.
In conleqitence of the late failures in England
and Scotland, and the stagnation of public cre
dit, K is ftafd that upwards oi one hundred and
sixty thoufani men, women and children, for
merly employed in the cotton manulaftories in
Scotland, have been.difmtfTed and are in great
distress—this it is said may be relied on.
Gent ral Cuftine has written a letter to .the
Convention, funilar to Dumouricr's of the 12th
March last—his denunciation may therefore be
speedily expeded.
The widow Capet was {till confined in the
Temple, with her children and fiftcr-in-law—
nothing sanguinary appears to threaten them.
The Spanish Regjfter fliip, which was cap
tured by the French Privateer Dumourier,
a id recaptured by the British frigate Phaeton,
had on board 65 tons of gold and silver; and
goods to the amount of 830,3501. sterling —
She is fa d to be as rich a prize as the Aca
pulco, captured by Lord Anfon. The British,
however, by law, are entitled only to salvage,
about one half. Another Spanish ship recap
tured by the British, had 36000 dollars, be
sides gold, on board.
It may be collected from the late accounts of
French affairs, that they Hill hold a good face
towards the combined powers. In the various
small actions which have taken place on the
frontiers of France, the Auftrians and Prufliaus
appear to have aft< d on the defenftve, the French
being the afTailinis. The sortie from Caff. II is
reprcfented as confiding of 12,000 men, which
pla:nlv (hews that the French armies arc formi
dable in numbers ; as to Dum"nriri, it is diffi
cult to afcrr tain hii exafl litua, ton—it is pretty
certain however that he has no army or bocfv of
men with him—nor <i it probable that he will
be entrusted with any command in the Auftiian
or PrufTnn armies. Siiould the account turn
out to be well founded that the moderate party
have attained a permanent afctndency iir the
National Convention, there is every- thing to
hope in relation to an eventual ctU"!ifkmrni of
the Liberties of Frame, on the bafts of a jit.4
and equal gnveinineni; confillency and liability,
jufl'i e and moderation in the public Councils
will produce nmverfal confidence and deflroy
the tpirit of faction and fediuon.
The nation will ast unitedly —arid their mea
sures proceeding front a centre of Union—they
will lie invincible. It appears by some late de
crees that the Convention is retracing certain
Heps formerly laken which have doubtltfs had
an inaufpictous afpedt on their affairs-—particu
larly that of interfering in the governments ot
other countries. There appears to be two prin
cipal objects to ensrofs the attention of the pie
ftrit French government—tlif fe are the quelling
'papers to the 7tk May.
443
intefrial commotions, and ffpcHiug the com
bined ai'mic*; nil ihefe a«e effected, :t »sdi!vicuii
to conceive how they can make much pjogrefs
in fiairn.ig j confhtuiion.
Ihe combined armies., according to the lafl
acconr.rs h<i\e remained 11 a Hate of inactivity,
from the fiiit to the April. No cngagr
tnent of in>yoftljije«», or siege, appears to havfe
taken place f one ft a Ton assigned tor this is, that
they are wailing for the arrival of their maga
zines of provisions—but another veiy obvious
one is,'the strong fortreffes between them and
France ; these arcgarrif ined by very numerous
bodies.of men—and defended by molt formi
dable batteries of artillery—whatever may be
the pretext for this tardiness in their operations,
the effects appear to be favorable ; it
has afforded an opportunity for and
their armies— for throwing supplies
int<» thej«»iified pofts,and for iccovciing from
*he ami disorganization conkqucnt on
Dnmouucr's flight.
The infurgentt in France have met with fre
quent defeats, notwithstanding which confix
derahle bodies, of them -continue affvmbled in
the department of Britanny—it is no*, ifaced
that there aie any diiturbances occsliontd by
Countcr-Revoluiionifts, in any other quarter.
A vefTel arrived here from Cape-Francois
in eleven days on Wednesday last. She brings
no account qf a French fleet'sfarriving there,
as dated in a late Baltimore paper.
Another veflel arrived here on Thursday,
in fix teen d*j»s from St. Euftatia. She brings
no account of any engagement in those seas
between the French and Engliih sleets—-so
that the report from New-York of the for
mer's having taken three fail of the line from
the English, wants confirmation,
The Dire&ors of the Bank of Pennsylvania
have eleftecl Edward Fox, Cuihier, faliiry
1633 dollars—George Huqhf.?, firft Teller,
("alary tooo dollars—John Knapp, second
Teller, fgljiry Soo dollars.
DUEJ® between the Duke of YORK and
IVmce FREDERICK of Orange
A gentleman in New-York has received a
letter from his friend in Bristol, via Boston,
dated April 30th, in which he mentions, that
44 The St adt holder ilTued an order tor no
troops, either Dutch or Englilh, to be absent
from garrisons or encampments —which the
Duke of York took umbrage at, faying, none
but a Briton should command a Briton, and
spoke in such language as could not be brook'd
bv the Stadtholder's son, Prince Frederick of
Orange ; a duel was the confeaueuce, in which
the Dutchman was fevere'y wounded."
Er.traft of a letter-dated Edinburgh, 16th April
" ' .1 a;.. . 1/ r
1 793' a Gentleman in New-York,
il The country banks in England are ex
ceedingly numerous—There has been a very
general devaluation among them—above fe
vjentpof them have flopped payment; and
many bankers and great merchants in Lon
cfon.—■Never zvat there such a general bankruptcy
in Ehgtand : And it seems not to be ended yet.
The bankruptcies amount already f rom 15 to
3Pn)«sOT}s sterling ; To you ma) judge of the
fituayon of England. Scotland, I am glad
to lay, has tele voiy little of the shock yet,
and I hope will elcape with what /he hath al
ready' fu fie red, which is not worth mention
ing when compared with England. The
caule of the m Vine life stoppages in London,
is owjng to the great <all of the funds of
stocks, which fell from 96 to 71 ; but are now
as high as again. The London bankers,
the Country banks of England and the great
merchants in London, were often full ot mo
ney ; and as ho interest is given for money in
England, they were always uTed to throw it
into the funds wherefore these three years
paik they never bought in, but were aSle to
fell ft-hf with the advantage of 1 or 2 per
cerft. advance when they needed it, and had
the chance of getting a half year's dividend if
it became due in the interim. A!l Europe will
feel the fhock-.—Bills to the amount of 4 mil
lions fteriing, having been returned protested,
including those returned to America; and
money inuft be scarce abroad as well as in
Britain ; for owing to the p.refent war with
France, ail the K ngs of Europe aie nego
tiating loans. Goods however in Britain have
not faHen much, owing to the great bounties
. giv&n to feajnen and soldiers: No less than
122 thousand men ha.e been raised, including
• the militia, for Tea and service, fmce the
firft of February last.
u A petition has been presented to Parlia
ment by fmnfc American Merchants again ft
that part of the Treason Bill which fubje&s
to death, for ordering corn, grain, &c." that
comes in America and touches in Britain, for
orders to be lent to Ff'anc?, but their peti
tion has been rcje&ed ; so that grain, pro
visions, S-tc. from your friends, that call at
Britain for o,ders, cannot afterwards be lent
or ordered to France.
; Ext raft of a Utter from a gentleman in Baltimore
-J — / —_ —
xo his friend in this c/ti % doted June 14.
" I havejuft arrived here from the Havan
na, w!>icb.place I left on the 6tb June. On
the 23J of May the declaration of war was
proclaimed against France, at the Hav.anna,
and on the* 25th the expdlfion of the French
from the territory, in 8 days, was publ shed.
" On the 4th of June an extraordinary
ar« iveil, and in the newspaper«; brought
bv th'.s veflel I read the Account of an attack
tfilde W the inhabitants of Biscay on the
tmvr» of which they took with the
loss of four thonfrnd men, and put thirty
tboufand Frenchmen to the sword ; and I also
read that the Catalonians had tuken great
part of Rpufillon."
on Tnefday tall, the Mcrq-iij df Bri-
TitiNY,i<(i Officer who served wr.h reputation
in the American Army during the war. H'.*
itmaios were interred on Wctlnefday.
——. hi England, very (irJdcnly, 'he colc
brarrd pKvficisT»,n'>ibnih:opi'«l and philosopher,
J)odt.or L RTTai; M.
The atteo%jjon. to th; truth of the princi
pits of liberty and free government, advan*
ced in Mr. Adamj's Defence of the American
Conftilurionr, is contained in the history and
experience of society in all past ages to the
present day—And at the present day this at
teftatiofi is confirmed, being written in cha
racters of blood.—He that runs may read.
The quotation froip a Newbury-Puit pape*,
in the lalk page of this day'« <jr*zeuc a is made
with a view to hold ujj to just applauu. *»id «in
tation thctiuiy illultiiou> example 1 * of munifi
cent beiievolcrice therein mentioned —fcaicciy
to be parallelled in tms or any other country.
How much fupcrior is the honor which awa:rs
such inltancea of living patriotic bounty,-to lbs
infcripiions on marble-.which celcbratc ttvfc le
gacies that are only rautied by the lea. ot
death !
Extrafl from an exhortation-10 the DtreifofJ of the
Bank of Pennf'hania, which appeared in Mr.
Duv/ap'y paper of hiurfday.
i% Especial attention muff he paid rilfo to
the business carried on by tho'e you deal wit!:,
or whole notes you discount. All jobbirip; in
lands or stocks, as it will very little aliment
you: bank, and is belides of a very precarious
nature, fliould be touched as gently and a"!
cautiously as pollible. The real exporter of
youf p.-odiice, who pays the farmer bis re
ward—the navigator and ship's hunfband,
who bring their treasures from the deep—the
whole fa le and retail trader, who fnpply the
community with its supplies of cloarhing and
of food—the mechanic and manufacturer ;
these merit your chief attention ; the article l ?
they deal in, fliips, wheat, flour, sugar, dry
goods, &c. &rc. are of known value and solidi
ty—you will rifle little in trusting them, and
if they have as may be expected, success,
they will greatly fe; vj you in their turn, by
rich and valuable deposits. While those who
deal in securities of left stable and certain va
lue, most ever be more precarious for yovi
to confide in, as the eventr, of tlie hcur niay
so greatly influence their ability to pay )cu."
The following cxtraSfrom *l*lt%ngiijh pafijr is
pubtiflua not with the remotejl idea ,if Hi appi,co
mity to arty persons in this country. '
" Indigent and worthless individual*; de
fining and desperate one 1 :, no doubt there
are among ft us—Tt is the will of that Being
who difpoles of human affairs, that there
should he a portion of vice and depravity
mixed up in the trsufactions of mankind, and
from this we a-re not, no r can we be exempt.
That persons of the evil dafcription above
stated, are Ibme of them on the watch for,
and ready to take part in the word of crimes,
oifences against the state, is not to oe contro
verted. If pretence or means can be devised
to excite pubiic disorder, men thus wickedly
intenttoired are forward to kindle, inflame
and fpiead the mifchief. Nor is it to lie won
dered at; for during the prevalence thereof,
the malignity and baleneTs of their characters
find scope to afl—opportunities for the perpe
tration of crimes are multiplied, and the pro
babilities of detection or puniHiment leflehed
—Time*of sedition, tumults and ricits, are
consequently to tkem a harvest, with no pro
perty or reputation to facrifice, what have
they to lose in fuclftimes ? The spoils of plun
der, the pleasure of beholding calamity and
devastation, they may obtain.
4t It is curious to ob erve how men of this
fort come forth, and rear their heads when
they fufpeftclouds f the kird in quettion to
be gathering—Mark the then cbterfnlnefs of
their looks, the lightne's of their deoortment,
the audacity of their air and language—whilii
sober, upright and refpe&able citizens, who
wish well to their country, are grave, anxious
and troubled, they are gay and triumphant
with them all is life, spirit and motion.
" Reverie or dispel such appearance, they
droop again, hang their heads, are not seen or
heard of, and (ink into nothing—S'lent,dark,
dejerted are they, wrapt up in the hopes of)
and intent upon the project of brooding mif
chief."
The Baltimore Mechanical Society have
addreOed the President of the United States
on his late Proclamation declaring the neu
trality of the United States-~expre£:ng their
full approbation of the fame.
SHIP NEWS.
AR RIVED a/ the PORTo/ PHI I.ADB'I PHI A.
Ship Swanwick, Perry, Havre dt G»are
Minerva,
Snow Cleopatra,
Brig Dolphin,
Skinner,
Donovan,
Cutti,
Experiment, Smith, Cape-Fiancois
Minerva, Thompson, Cadiz & Madeira
Sloop Juda, Paddock, Savannah
Susy, Mitchell, Noit'i-Carolina
Rambler, Can, S . fcutiatius
$ a M>» » Providence
PRICE OF STOCKS.
pet Ctr.u, ijfj
3 per C -nts, gy,o
Deltried,
Full /hares Ban'* U. S. 5 per cciit. a rfv.
Hercule De Sercey,
From Lccganc, JJluhd oj St. Domingo,
MAKiLSaud fells all fo-ts of Mugs, Jacks;
Porrir.gtis, Cops, Stew-Pans. Lamps, See.
in Tin, plain 01 japanned— He aifo mti»ds old
tin work.. As he v*orkschesp, he hopes fbi The
puMic rncou*agemeni.
No. 23 Race ftrea, near Tronufireet.
June na,
HERCULE DE SERCEY,
DE Leofcane, Jfle <ic Sr. Dominquc. dmity*
c»» Irr Blanc,<l? tout/e forte dc maiiicrcs a
01nrr.ar.de ct a bon marche.
A Philadclphie, ce 22 Juin. 1793.
Jvp: 23, Rucc»iirret, pigs FiQi.;*firec;
Liverpool
Nr wry
P<»rt au Pi rncettoa lie biLW. YORK DAILY ADVtRThLR.
Messrs. Chilos IU Sw aike,
Be pleated to publiib the following extract,
that the liberal conduit of the revenue of
ficers and merchants of I.uimluikWi ry way
be made public i
kxirati cj '/ fsftrr from the m\"tr of lh: fl'b MJ
ry t at LvH'Jor.'ierr\ to hn uu.net in Nenv-Yofk.
44 TT7E may think ouifeives very fo r tu-
VV na|e, f«»r through the imposition ol
Diver, w c were near loi'inour ship. Vv J iei»
he applied to yon in New-York* little did we
think we had -t fmoggler to deal with ; in
two of the casks which wc supposed to con
tain fl;»x feed, were concealed two hundred
and lour pieces of n.tnkeens f which being fuf
pelted by t'*e revenue officer*, Diver went on
ihore and informed that he had nankeens on
board ; upon which Mr. Nswburgh, the col-
Je&or, leized the ship, telling me at the lame
time that he was obliged to do his duty, hut
that 1 might depend upon h:s alfiftance in my
unfortunate situation. 1 immediately (by
the advice of the principal merchants in this
place) gave in a petition to Sir Hugh Hill
Bart, the principal officer of his biajefty'ff re
venue, who being informed that every per
foil on board th<» ship (Diver excepted) was
qnjteignorant of the nankeens being on board,
ordered the ship to be fold at au&oii accord
ing to law ; every body being convinced that
I bad not been concerned in the Smuggling,
geiierouflv declined to bid against trie, and I
pur chafed rhe Mary from the levenue of Ire
land for ten guineas, when it was- generally
expected there wouid have been a line of live
fcund-ed guineas on her."
From the Impartial HkraiD-i new paper
lately ejlaklijked in JUtwbu ry-Pott—MaJJachujetts.
r*tnft from Topographical Sketches of the
County of ESSEX-
PASSING over the river, we enter Ando.
ver, divided into two parishes. The ge
neral appearance of this place is thriving, and,
for an agricultural town, the buildings, pub-
Jic and private, are in a style of uncommon
neatness and elegance. The land is of an
excellent quality, and under handsome culti
vation ; particularly that part of it which is
watered by Shaw/keen river, a considerable
stream which takes its rife in Bedford in the
couoty of Middlesex, and, pafling through
Billerica, Tewkfbury and Andover, dischar
ges itfelf into Merrimack river, at this latter
place. In the south parish are a powder-mill
and paper-mill. From tP.e former of these,
large supplies were fumifhed to the army,
during the late war. The paper-mill is yet
in its infancy, but has already exhibited spe
cimens of its manufacture of an excellent fa
bric. T! efe are both owned by the Hon.
Mr. Phillips, President of the Senate, a na
tive inhabitant of this town, wliofe unwearied
attention to the political, manufa&ural and
literary interests of his country are too well
known to need an encomium here, and have
endeared his name to the citizens of the Com
monwealth in general, aud especially to those
o the County of Elfex. Under his auspices,
aid by the liberal benefactions of his father,
tie late Hon. Samuel Phillips, of Andover,
and of the Hon. John Phillips, L L. D. of
Exeter, in the State of New Hampshire, an
academy was instituted in this town, in the
year 1778, and in the year 1780 an a<ft palled
the Legislature, incorporating the gentle
men above named, with sundry other refpeft
able characters, by the name of u The Truf-
of Phillips's Academy in Andover/'*
The appointments of this teminary are li
beral. A preceptor, an afliftant preceptor,
and a teacher of writing and practical mathe
matics, aie at present well fuppoi ted, and
the funds are said to be in a, growing state.
Witliiu its original defignfome higher branches
of learning may be taught as ability and op
portunity IHall arise.
* This name diflinguipies this inflitution from a
Jimi/ar one in New-Hawpfhirc, tailed "Phillips's
Exeter Academy,* founded Jolely by the Hon. Doctor
Phillips, the fund> of which are /aid to exceed
ten thou fund pounds currency.—hi addition to tkcfe
foundations, this gentleman has been hy far the tnofl
munificent benefnßoi to Dartmouth Uhivcfjily. Such
hi ft and pious diflributions of ptoperty in the life
time of the pojjcjfor are tl,e mofl honorable dfplay of
genuine pubiic J pint and dijint'erejled patriotism ;
and the man who thus nobly triumph s over the Jordid
didatcs oj avarice or a mijlaken flf-inttiejl-, has
fu/e!\ a better title to be canonized, than a whole
hofl of legendary J amis and martyrs.
A Manufadurer of Snuff in 80/ Inn. in his advertrfe
mcnt, givti the following charafler oj a particular
kind, which he denominates Violet Snuff :
44 IT is made from pure clcan Tobacco,
and granulated in such a manner, astoabforo
al! fupeifliiou* m&fturc in the head —it docs not
clog but clears it, and will raiher help than dc
ftroy the forech. From which there is not that
naul'eous effluvia, and ftaming the handkerchief,
that proceeds from fine fnuff.
" The odour which proceeds from this Snuff,
■plays around the delicate fibres of the nose,
mak'S it expand to receive the grateful particles
which diftufc themfvWr.i to the places dcfignrd,
J) rii.rm t4nnr office, and gcnily utuin and mix
with the native air."
P L
J N S
OF THE
City of Washington,
Sold by the Booksellers,
DO P SON, LAR&Y, YOU AG, & LRUKSHANK.
TICKETS
Jn lilt F6DERAL CITY LOTTKRY,
*lay be had at SAMUEL CGO-Pf-R's Ftny
cxrEnsny OF PEKA'SYITAKU.
IT lin .'.itherto been ihs practice of tfiis
S. ui ii.n v f n it >' *•; "II along the prjfrite
iwtii ->ft' '- <>;d Coilege and ul'the old l/niver
li;v) to exiiaire the leveral rolls oi.ee *
week—and, "a every lucii t« levjr
fines (except wiiere corporal pwTiHSnient was
to bt iiiflnjVu; on foch of the Students, as,
during the preceding week, had been either
late in tit 11 attendance, or abiiiut altogether,
at any particular felfiun.
But thi* practice, however good tlx delign
with which it was ir.ftitutrd, was found to be
attended wit'i iomc inconvenience*. The
collection oi' Jo ni2ny petty fines wa* both
ti ou!j|cloint' and degrading to tlie Protefforv
Neither, after aH, could the impOfttion «♦'
t'jefj fines be e*peftcd to produce Ike dffired
efticl: (■><■,' if c.->-ifiilcratile, they opeiateA ra
ther as a. tan upon ihc parents, tlian as a
pup'fhment on tin-boy* J and, it titer: tint-T
---able, were but too apt to be <Hl>e yarded—
And, as In corporal punifiimeoY, the inflU
tion of t lb frequently, and in so public a
manner, could not but tend to wear o«t that
Ingenuous sense of lhame and regard to cha
racter, which it is one great end of education
to etariOi and promote.
At a meeting therefore, of the faculty,
held April 18th, 1793, ■' * 3S unammoufly
reAilvctf,
'* Full, l!u-.t nl! ijncs and corporal pu• •»fli
nent; for attending late, or for being absent
■Itogethei, at a> y jrarticular {ellion, shall be
aboliJhed.
ii And, secondly, that, on the firft Wed
nefHay of every month, there (hall be J»eld a
meeting.'of the feveraf frofciTofs tnd Tutors,
for the "urpofe of examining'the general roll,
and compa ;ng their everal particular rolls ;
when an accurate ftateinent of the atterd
ancc and behavior of each {Indent, during the
preceding month, fliail be made out, and pre
sented to his parents or dlan.".
The Faculty confide, that by tints extend
ing, as it were, the authority Q ** parents and
guardians, tlie r e will be leis need for the ex
ertion of other autho. ity : and that the ap
prehension of this monthly notice will b« found
to have at lead as much influence on the
minds of their pupils, as the apprehension of
the weekly fines and punifoments were found
to have formerly.
Published for the information of the pa*
rents and guardians of the students and scho
lars at the University.
By order of the Faculty,
WILLIAM ROGERS, Set'ry.
Philadelphia, June 11, 1793.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
Bookseller, at the Stone-Hovfe y in Second Jlreet %
F'hiladfaphia,
VOLUME IX, OF
ENCYCLOPAEDIA!
OR, A DICTIONARY OP ARTS, SCIENCES,
and MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
On a Plan entirely new : •.
BY wdICH
The Different SCIENCES And ARTS
are diverted into the Form o< D'ftinft,
TREATISES OR SYSTEMS :
THIS VOLUME CONTAINS
HYDROSTATICS. Hygrometer, Hiflory of
Japan* lUrland, Jerilfalfm, J cvvs, India,
Infr&s, Infurame, Ireland, Italy, K«infchatka,
Knighthood, Language, Law, Legerdemain,
with a great variety of Biographic*! and Miscel
laneous Articles.—lliuiirated with thirty-one
elegant Copperplaies.
CONDITIONS.
I. The work s printing on a fupevfine paper,
and new types, (c ast tor the pu'pofe) which
will be occasionally renewed before iliey con
tract a worn appearance.
11. Ihe work is fumifticd in boards, in volumes
or half-volumes, as fublcribers chule; the price
of the whole volumes, five dollars each, ol the
half-volumes two dollars and two-thirds of'a
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on fub
fcribmg, the volumes or half-volumes finifhed
to be p&id for when delivered, the price of one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each succeeding volume to be paid on deliver
ing i he volume preceding it. No part of the
work will be delivered unless paid for.
111. In the coutfe of the publication will be de
livered about five tiunrired copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia: which by
tar exceed in number ihofe given in any other
icientific didioiiary. At the clof ? of the pub
ligation will be delivered an elegant frontif
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages foi the different volumes^
It is expe&cd ;he work will he compiifed in
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
The fubferipuon will continue open on the
above terms till the fii It day ot September next,
to give opportunity to those who are riot yet
fuhfcribeis, to come forward.
Those who have ftibfcribed, and got only a
small part of the work, are requeued to com
plete their feus, as far as publifhcd, as soon as
poflibk*, as after the firJl of next September, by
which tune the tenth volume is expe&ed to be
ready, the pnblifher will not consider hiinfelf
bound to make up those setts which arc not
completed up to that period.
Philadelphia, fune ic), 1793.
THE MEM6ERS OF THE
INSURANCE COMPANY Of"
NORTH AMERICA,
Are defrtd to take Notice,
THAT the Coniliiuiion requires Payment of
One Hollar on cach Share,, on tht Second
Montfay (iht 8;h Day) ot July next, on Penallv
ol Foiteuurc ol the Money already paid.
S'ich>Sto«'khn)dcrs as have not. made their se
cond lnftalnient, are informed, that Payment
will be r.ceived at the Company's Office, No.
119, South Fiont-Street, either on or before the
Ciid Day, as thev may find it mofl cottvctiient
EMENF.ZEK HAZARD, Sec'n.
June 8. 1793.
444
STATE of RHODE-ISLAND orJ PKUV I-
fLANTA/lONS.
hCttfl Ma) iej/ict, A. D. '793-
RfcSOLVtD, That an Ast patted by this
AlT' mblyafheSeflion in May.A. D. i 79'>
thereby Jabi* BoweN.Efq. Cominiffioncrol
L >an.., was lecntfted not to lean any Nolc.ol •
certain d< fcr.pt..,n, -ffued by the Gent.al T.ea
furcr oi this State for Mob*, due to the Soldier.
of the late Army, in c.nfequenceof their having
b en fraudulently obtained, and the (aid Lura
m.fiioner was further retjueftrd lo retain said
Noif, in his office until such future orders Ihnuld
be therfon made.a: might confill with the prin
ciple, of u;ttice and equuy, be, aDd tbt fame is
hereby repealed, so far a. regard, the detention
Of those Notes.
It is Jut t her rejbhed, That the General Trea
surer adverufc in all ijje newspapers in this (Uie,
a>id in the Gazette oj the United States, adt fcnp
lion of the Notes thus Irnulultiuly obtained,
w<rh a caution to all peifons not to purchaie
them.
Lift of Notes obtained from theTreafury
Office by fraudulent Measures ,(o wit:
Wl.t* delntrtd. To whom When Amount of
i ygo. payable. payable. the Face.
Sept.2s. Sharpo Chainplin, on demand, 41 1 5
Prince Cafe do. 11 18 2
Stephen Charles do. 30 9 10
John Brown do. 12 1 4
Ccfar Cady do. 5* 2 10
John Okey do. 43 '9 11
Oft. 14. John Reed do. 31 4 °
John Horfley do. 99 o 6
William King do. 22 19 5
16. Prince Sayles do. 38 11 10
Bristol Arnold do. 38 9 6
Taefar Rose do. 36 12 8
Cudge Champlin do. 40 11 10
Jack Greene do, 40 8 6
18. Joseph Tanner do. 43 7 10
Cato Vernon do. 20 3 3
Daniel Sharpe do. 30 11 3
Printe Randal do. 38 11 o
Joshua Dick d'>. 29 19 7
William Negro do. 29 5 0
23. jofeph do. 39 12 5
Benjamin Sprague do. gq id o
Peter Harris do. 38 14 6
28. Stephen Aldrich do. 22 14 2
William Mac Call do. 3.5 8 o
Prince Childs do. 27 12 2
l.eiceftcr Wheeler do. ig 2 4
Pat Hackmet do. 25 14 o
Abraham Smith do. 24 14 8
John Thomas do. 41 10 8
Jack Warden do. 31 o 2
John Bristol B do. 33 18 U
Benjamin Reed do. 32 4 8
Cato Bnnnifter do. 27 2 7
Nathaniel Wicks do. 20 8 5
Beiioni Hathaway do. 36 17 5
Evan Evans do. 28 7 2
Joseph Merry do. 32 8 7
Pcro Greene do. 28 16 9
Nov. 5. Benoni Hunt do. 40 5 o
11. Cato Brown do. 37 5 7
Africa Burk do. 27 a 9
London Slocum do. 23 8 11
Jack Minthorn do. 27 2 9
13. TiM.rt T. Hopkins do. 41 23 8
17- Jactfb Ned do. 40 o 10
Boston Wilbour do. 42 7 Jo
Tony Phillips do. 27 3 o
Ephraim Rogers do. 623
Robert Goreham do. 41 o 10
24. Robert Howland do. 39 3 9
Jdtnrs Singleton do. 21 o
J.imes Cross do. 35 4 6
Cato Stanly • do. 21 o »o
John George do. 19 19 6
John Crandal da. 77 12 2
Prince Power do. 19 4 9
Benrd;6t Aaron do. 7* 10 8
C.T'far Shelden do. 1218 7
Caesar Wefel do. 17 17 9
Scipio De W»lfe do. 19 14 10
Biiftol Luiher do. 1-823
John HulTey do. 2811
Dec. 2. Benjamin Sweet do. 6 o 2
Silas Mawney do. 28 15 a
John Willfon do. 9 ° 4
6. jame? Mac Sparrow do. 28 16 3
11. Ca.o Bourse do. 6 10 2
Prim Gardner do. 7 u q
Joseph Wilkev do. 18 4 #
Cornelius Drafkill do. 1848
Pero F>nch do. 69 7 6
Dublin Btiggs do. 17 4 8
Bridget Stake do. 19 16 1 1
Ed ward Eafterbrooks do. 10 4 t
Cuff Arnold do. 510 3
Prime Clarke do. 53 16 6
John Mc Donnal do. 12 4 7
13. George Robbins do. 2.1 o'i t
John Morris Obrien do. 25 19 2
Piirve Brown do. 41 17 i,
Solomon Mathews do. 33 5 6
lack Siflon do. 40 7 8
Newport Greene do. 35 3 y
Ebenczci Cxfar do. 11 6 8
John Elliott do. 21 o 3
Keubtn Thorp do. 23 o 2
Thomas Randal! do. 24 11 2
Thomas Durfee do. 22 11 6
Daniel Himmon do. 29 o
Richard Hopkins do. Ac q 0
H rny Hazaid do. 25 q 9
Levi Cole do. 9 4
Allen Sonlhwotth do. 18 iq o
Richard Allen do. 74 ,8 10
Dec, 23. William Ctudtev, on demand. 13 g 0
Icliabod Simmons do. 41!
John Brown do. Hl9 4
John Gavit do. JO 16 4
William Ackman do. 42 ,8 c
Jack Coddington do. 710
Caef..r Gardner do. 812 7
Toby Coyes do. 7, 1? 10
J 'ho Willfon do. (jo ig ,
25. John Gavet do. 66 6 ,
John Garufon do. 57 g
IN OBI.DII NCE to (he atorc recited Ast of
Ihe General AOcmbly, Ido heieby cant,on all
peilons from receiving any o! the above men.
tinned Notes, without the most plenary proof
eing made 1 hat they were obtained from the
office by genuine documents from the foldters
who ptrrmmcd thefcivir,, le tfc r J,,!,,,
♦ere futtnd 4at,« fmm llkii icg»l r c », tk .
■ves 01 aitoroici. ""
(.iiEXRY
Gti»«il.rreilurc r ,
Niwf/trtiflij 14. 1703,
F O R 8 A L E,
1360 /teres of exeJhit
FARMING <n- TOBACCO
LANDS, "
LYING in the cour,iy ol Amiir,a, in lie
lijic oi Virginia, on on.- ol the
bunches of James-River, wit I ,in f„ »nile» or
thr latter, from whence uis ( or (j OJI
of ten or twelve ions burthen.
Bolides the advantage? ot tbefeland,, f, )r
fainu-r or cultivator ot tobicco, tfity are ! t j (
posed, from a fniall though fiicccntul i*p r , ~
mem mule by the law Col. C'nifwell, to con-j,ri
an abundance of mrtals, wiik-h. if not of a ■ rt
ciom (a» h-is been tven l.iopol.d) ar* certainly of
a veiy valuable kind. The better however t 0
afcertan this faii, and pl»cr the ourchafcr on ,
fate footing, in so hazaidous a buiinrfi. as ill
thole fubterranenus relearcliei, without the ui.
most certainty of an abundance of the dtfi tit
ore, aiefuponfed u> be, every and
necelTary aliillance or indulgence will be ren
dered those inclined to ma|.c the expeiiment, it
well as every other netrffary information S iv' en
by the printer ot this Garette in Philadelphia or
JOHN NICHOLAS.
Chailottcfvillc, Virginia.
GENERAL POST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia, May 27, 1793.
500 Dollars Reward.
W HEP. FAS a certain THOMAS SLOsS
GANTT, has lately made his escape
from Baltimore County Gaol, 10 which he was
committed under a charge of having robbed the
Eafleni Mail, on the s&'h.ilav of Ja«nary lift :
Nonce is hereby given, that a ic>rtirct »l five
hundred dollars will be paid at thij Office. to
any person or per sons who (ball apprehend tk«
laid Thomas S/vfs Gantt, and deliver him into ine
custody of the keeper of the laid Gaol, or into
thecuftody of cither of the Mmftais within the
United S'atcs, To that the said Thomas Slof Gantt
may be effcflually fecmed, and forth coming to
answer the above mentioned chaige.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Pvjl-Maflfr Gtmrtf.
The following is a description of itieabove
namcd Thomas Sl#so Gawtt : H? llabcut
fiK feet bigti, ftrail and well made, (las light ta
loured hair, rtcct behind, !air complexion and
has a down look when fpnken tn.
Albany Glafs-Houfe.
the Proprietors of the Giafs-Manufactory, under
the Firm of
M'CLALLEN, M'GREGOR and Co.
BEG leave to inform the public, r hat they have
now brought their WI NDOW-Gi ASS t<v
such perfection, <*i will be found, mi companion,
to be equal, in quality, to the belt Loudon
Crown Glass.
Having fixed their prices at a lower ratpth.io
imported Glass, they are induced to believe, (hat
importations of this articlo will be difconnnued,
in proportion as their works a*e extended.—
They propufe to enlarge the scale of this bufi
nils, and as the fnecefs of it will depend on the
patriotic support of the public, they beg leave 10
folirit their friendly patronage in the pursuit of
a branch which will intercft etery lover of
American Manufactures.
Ail orders for Window-Glass, of any size,
will be received at the Store of Rhodes and
MacGregor, No. 234, Queen-street, New-
York, and at the Glass Wa-ehoufe,
Market-11 reot, Albany, which will be pun£luaily
attended to.
pF* WANTED, fix smart attive LADS, not
exceeding 16 years of age, to be indented as
Apprentices, and regularly inftru&ed in the
various branches of Glass-Making.
Also, three Window-GUI* Makers to whom
great eucoin agremciit will be given,
May i, 1793.
NOTICE.
r pHE STOCKHOLDERS in the SOCIETY
1 tor ESTABLISHING USEFUL MANIi-
FACTURES, are requeftcd to take notice, thdt
the fourth and last payment is due, and must be
made on or before the 13th day of July next,
either to the Caftiier of the United Statrs Bank.
Office of Discount and Depolit at
the Ca(hi«r of the Bank ot New-Yotk —ihe
Cafhierof the Bank of the United States in Phi
ladelphia— or John Bayord, E r q. in the city of
Ncw-Biunlwi-k, in the llace of New«l<*rfey.—
And that the (hares of all persons ntgir&mg 10
make fuoh pnyment, and the monies by them
previouflv paid, will then be forfeited for the
common benefit of the laid society.
That the fublcriber is duly authorised to make
the requisite indorfments upon the certificates of
{barfs, and that books of transfer arc opened at
his office in Front-street.
Nrro-York. "June 1 <?. 1703.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-tlrcet. N'.a w-Yor k.
THL Sabfciiber intend ingto confine iiimfrlf
entirely to the" PURCHASE & SALE ot
STOCKS on COMM ISSION, begileave to of
f:r his (ervices lo h is friend s aad otbcis, in the
line ofa Stock Broker. Those who may p'eaf?
to favor him with thrir bufuiefs, may depend
upon having it tranTaAed with the utmofl fide
lity ami dispatch.
Oiders from Ph iladelphi3, 3ofton, or any
other part of the United States, will be ft r i £1' y
Jttendsd to.
LEONARD BLEECKFR
(«•'.}
The price of this Gazette is Three Dollars
per annum—One half to b< paid at the time of fob'
scribing.
epi2W
NICHOLAS LOW.
ffot'S'l