A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND .SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 34, NOPIH FIFTH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA,
[No. 9 6 of Vol. IV.]
LAW OF THE UNION.
S Ef.OND
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT THE StCOND SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia,
in the State of Pennsylvania, on Monday
the fifth erf* November, o\e thousand
seven hundred and ninety-two.
AN ACT to regulate Trade and In
tercourse with the Indian Tribes.
BE it enacted by the Senate and Hou'e of
_Reprelkntatiyes of the United States ot
America in Congrcfo affemblcd, That no per
son shall be permitted to carry on any trade
or intercourse with the Indian tribe", with
out a licence under the hand and seal of the
fuperintendant of the department, or of such
other person, as the President of the United
States shall authorize to grant licences for
that purpose ; which fuperintendant, or per
son so authorized lhall, on application, itTue
such licence, for a term not exceeding two
years, to any proper person, who shall enter
into bond with one or more sureties approved
of by the fuperintendant, or person ilfuing
such licence, or by the President of United
States, in the penal sum of one thousand dol
lars, payable to the United States, condition
ed for the true and faithful observance of
such rules, regulations and reftridtions, as are
or lhall be maile, for the government of trade
and intercourse wi th the Indian tribes. Ihe
said fuperintendants, and persons licenced as
aforefaid, lhall be governed, in all things
touching the said trade and intercourse, by
such rules and regulations, as the President
of the Unitjc! Srate; shall prefer,ibft«
And be it further enacted, That the fuper
intendant, or person issuing such licence, shall
have full power and authority to recall the
fame, if the person so licenced lhall transgress
any of the regulations or reftridtions, provi
ded for the government of trade and inter*
course with the Indian tribes, and shall put in
fait such bonds, as he may have taken, on the
breach of any condition therein contained.
And be it further ena&ed, That every per
son, who shall attempt to trade with the In
dian tribes, or lhall be found in the Indian
country, with such merchandize in his pof
fefTion, as are usually vended to the Indians,
Without lawful licence, shall forfeit all the
merchandize, offered for sale to the Indians,
or found in his poifeffion, in the Indian coun
try, and shall, moreov<:, be liable to a fine
not exceeding one hundred dollars, and to im
prisonment not exceeding thirty days, at the
discretion of the court, in which the trial (hall
be: Provided, That any citizen of the Uni
ted States, merely travelling through any
Indian town or territory, shall be at liberty to
purchase, by exchange or otherwise, such ar
ticles as may be neceifary for his fubfifience,
without incurring any penalty.
And be it further enabled, That if any ci
tizen or inhabitant of the United States, or of
fcither of the territorial diftri&s of the Uni
ted States, shall go intoany town, settlement,
or territory belonging to any nation or tribe I
of Indians, and shall there commit murder, I
robbery, larceny, trespass or other crime, I
agaioft the person or property of any friendly
Indian or Indians, which, if committed with
in the jurifdi&ion of any State, or within the
jurifdi&ion of either of the said diftricls, a
gainll a citizen thereof, would be punishable
by the laws of such State or diftridl, such of.
fender shall be fubjeft to the fame punifhmcnt,
as if the offence had been committed within
the State or diflritt, to which he or ihe may
belong, against a citizen thereof.
And be it further enacted, That if any
such citizen or inhabitant shall make a settle
ment on lands belonging to any Indian tribe,
or shall survey such lands, or designate their
boundaries, by marking trees, or otherwise
tor the purpose of settlement, he shall fo r feit
a sum not exceeding oDe thousand dollars, nor
less than one hundred dollars, and fuffer irn
priionment nor exceeding twelve months, in
the discretion of the court, before whom the
trial shall be : And it shall, moreover, be law
ful for the President of the United States, to
take such mcafures, as he may judge neces
sary, to remove from lands belonging to any
Indian tribe, any citizens or inhabitants of
the United States, who have made, or shall
hereafter make, or attempt to make a fettle
nient thereon.
And be it further ena&ed. That no person
lhall be permitted to purchase any horse of an
Indian, or of any white man in the Indian ter-
special licence for that pur
Wednesday, May 1, 1795.
pole ; which liccrce, the Oipenr.feridnr.t-, vf
lOCli other perion as the President lb ail ap
point, is hereby authorized to grant, on the
fame terms, conditions and leftriftions, as
other licences are to be granted under this
ast : Provided also, Tliit every person, wlui
iiall purc'.iafe a horse or horles, under such
tcence, hsl'ore he exposes such horse or hor-
Fes for (ale, and within fifteen days after they
ftiall have been brought out of the Indian
country, lhall mike a particular return to
the fuperintendant, or other person, from
whom he obtained his licence, of"every horse
by him purchased, as aforefaid, describing
fuchhorfes, by their color, height and other
natural or artificial marks, under the penal-
tit?s contained in their refpe&ive bonds.
And every person, purchasing a horse or hor
ses, as afo-efaid, in the Indian country, with-
out a special licence, lhall, for every horse
thus purchased and brought into any settle
ment of citizens of the United States, forfeit,
for every horse thus purchased, or brought
from the Indian country, a sum not more
than one hundred dollars, norlefs than thirty
dollars, to be recovered in any court of re
coid having competent jurifdi&ion. Ar.d
every person, who shall purchase a horse,
knowing him to be brought out of the Indian
territoiy, by any person or persons not licen
ced, as above, to purchase the fame, shall for
feit the value of such horse j one hall lor the
benefit of the informant, the other half for the
u!c of tiie United States, to be recovered, as
aforefaid.
And be it further enabled, That no agent,
fuperintendant, or other person authorized to
grant a licence to trade, or purchase h -rfes,
lhall have any intereftor concern in any trade,
with the Indians, or in the purchase or sale of
any horses, to or from any Indian ; And that
any person, oHcnding herein, shall forfeit one
thousand dollars, and be imprisoned. at the
discretion of the court, before which the con
vision shall be had, not exceeding twelve
months.
And be it further enacted, That no pur-
chafe or grant of lands, or of any title or claim
thereto, from any Indians or nation or tribe
of Indians, within the bounds of the United
States, (hall be of any validity, in law or equi-
ty, unless the fame be made by a treaty or
convention entered into pursuant to the con-
ftitution ; And it lhall be a mifdenieanor, in
any person not employed under the autho
rity of the United States, in negotiating such
treaty or convention, punilhable by fine fi.Ot
exceeding one thr.ufand doliais, and ofim
prifonment not exceeding.twelve months, di
re ft !y or indirectly to treat with any such In
dians,'nation or tribe of Indians, for the title
or purchase of any lands by them held, or
.claimed : Provided nevertheless, That it
(hall be lawful for the agent or agents of any
State, who may be present at any treaty, held
with Indians under the authority oi the Uni
ted States, in the presence, and with the ap
probation of the commissioner or commission
ers of the United States, appointed to hpld
the fame, topropofe to, and adjflft with the
Indians, the'compenfation to be made for
their claims to lands within such State, which
lhall be extinguilhed by the treaty.
And be it further enadted, That in order
to promote civilization among the friendly
Indian tribes, and to secure the continuance
of their fnendfhip, it shall and may be lawful
for the President of the United States, to
cause them to be furnifhed with ufeful, do-
medic auimals, and implements of bulbandry,
and also to furnifhthem with goods or money,
in such proportions, as he (hall judge proper,
and to appoint such persons, fiom time to
time, as temporary agents, to redfie among
the Indians, as he lhall think proper : Provi
ded, Tliat the whole amount of such presents,
and allowance to such agents, shall not exceed
twenty tboufand dollars per annum.
And be it further enafttd, That the fupe- I
rior courts of each of the said territorial dif
tri&s, and the circuit courts, and other courts
of the United States of similar jurifdiftion in
criminal causes, in each diflrift of the Uni
ted States, into which any offender againfl
this ast shall be firft brought, or in which he
(hill be apprehended, shall have, and are
thereby in veiled with full power and autho
rity, to hear and determine all crimes, offen
ces and misdemeanors against this ast; such
courts proceeding therein, in the fame man
ner, as if such crimes, offences and misde
meanors had been committed within the
bounds of their refpeftive diflrifts : Ard in
all cases, where the punilhment lhall not be
death, the county-courts of quarter-sessions
in the said territorial diftri&s and thediftrift
courts of the United States, in their refpec
t|ve diftridts (hall have, and are hereby in
vested with like power to hear and deter
mine the fame.
* And be it further enadted, That it (hall
and may be lawful for the Prelident of the
United States, and for the governors of such
territorial diftrifts, refpeftively, on props to
them made, that any citizen or citizens of
the Uoiced States, or of the said diftrifts, or
either of them, have been guilty of any of
the said crimes, offences or roii'demeanors,
581
■W_jp " '
r- ifl© Ar.j ffcttieraent, or tet; : t'O:; b*~
tt).->gihg to any nation or of Indians, to
cauie such per (on or persons to he apprehend
ed, and brought into either of the United
States, qt of the (aid diflrifrs, and to be pro
ceeded against in due courle of law. And in
all cases, where the punishment (hall be death,
it shall be lawful for the governor of the dif
tritt, into which the offender may be firft
brought, or in which he may be apprehended,
to issue a commiflion of oyer and terminer to
the superior judges of the district, who shall
have full power and authority to hear and
determine all such capital cafe??, in the fame
manner, as the superior courts of such dif
tridis have, in their ordinary feflions: And
when the offender shall be brought into, or
lhall be apprehended in any of the United
States, except Kentucky, it shall be lawful
for the Prelident of the United States, to issue
a like commiflion to any t*Vo judges of the
supreme court of the United States, and the
judge of the diftri<st, in which the offender
may have been apprehended or firft brought <
which judges, or any two of shall have
the fame jurisdiction in such capital cases, as
the circtjit-cmjt t of fucti ard fliall
proceed to trial and judgment, in the fhme
manner, as such circuit-court might or could
do.
And be it further enabled, That a!l fines
and forfeitures, which ihall accrue under this
ast, (hall be, one half to the use of the infor
mant, and the other half, to the use of the
United States, except where the prosecution
fliall be flrft instituted on behalf of the United
States, in which cafe, the whole lhall be to
their use.
And be it further enabled, That nothing
in this ast (hall be construed to prevent any
trade or intercourse with Indians living on
lands surrounded by settlements of the citi
zens of the United States, and being within
the jutifdiftionof any of the individual States.
And be it further enacted, That all and
every other ast and arts, coming within the
purview of this ast, lhall be, and are hereby
repealed.
And be it further enacted, That this ast
fliall be in force, for the term of two years,
and from thence to the end of the then next
feluq;i and no longer.
" JO"MATH Alv TRtTMBULL, Speaker
of the House oj Reprejentatives.
JOHN LANGDON, Piejiderti pro
tempore oj the Senate.
APFROVED MARCH 1, 1793-
GEO. WASHINGTON,
Prefidcnt oj the United States.
Abridgement of the
NEW CONSTITUTION of FRANCE.
THE object of all union of men in society,
being the maintaining of natural, civil,
and political rights, tbefe rights ought to be
the b Cs of the social compact. The acknow
ledgment and declaration of them ought to
precede the constitution which allures the
guarantee of them.
Art. i. Natural, civil, and political
rights, are liberty, equality, security, ami
propertv, the social compift, and refiftancc
of oppreltion.
Art. 2. Liberty conlifts in tha power of
doing every thing which is not contrary to
the right of another. Thus the exercise of
this aatijral right has no other limits than
those which secure to the members of the
fame society the enjoyment of the fame
rights.
Art. 3. Every citizen ought to ftibmit to
the law, which is the exprelfion of the gene
ral will. Whatever is not forbidden by the
law, cannot be prohibited; and none can be
constrained to do what it does not enjoin.
Art. 4 Every man has the liberty of ma
nifefting his thoughts and his opinions.
Art. 5- The liberty of the Press, and e
ve y other means of making known his senti
ments, cannot be. forbidden, futpended, or
limited-
Art. 6. Every citizen is Iree 111 the exer.
cife of his religion.
Art. 7- Equality consists in the enjoy
ment of the fame rights by every citizen.
Art. 8. The law is equal to all, whether
it protects or punilhes.
Art. 9. All citizens are equally admissible
to all appointments. Free people know no
other motive of preference than the pre-emi
nence of talents and virtue.
Art. to. Security coufifts in the profefti
ori granted to all the citizens, for the preser
vation of their persons, of their fortunes, and
of their rights. „ . n
Ait. 11. None can be accused, stopped,
or detained, but in cases fpecified by the law,
and according to the forms it has prefcribod.
Art. 12. The citizens against whom ar.
hitrary acts may be exercised, have the
rijht to resist them by force ; but every man
accused or arretted in virtue of the law,
ought to obey it instantly. He renders him
felfguilty by resistance. (N. B. a mistake in
the order.)
Art. 13' Those whs solicit, expedite, ex
ecute, or caufc to be executed, arbitrary or
ders, are guilty, and ought to be puni(bed.
[Whole No. 418.]
•s\t* ijl. mn/r t-r> iSe
ed innocent, till £»{'</'£
it'it is found arrt-ft Wmii,
rigor not requilite to fecurfe his perlW oiu.ht
:o he severely interdicted by Jjjjr
Art. 15. None can be puniflji cUbu* in v'*v
tue of a law established a , i promulgated a <-
tcrior to the crime, and iegatty applied
Art* 16. Every law which pum(hes crime;
anterior to its promulgation i:; aj* arbitrary
a6K Every retrofpeft effect of law i> a
crime.
Art. 17. The law ought only toinflift ne
cessary panifliment proportioned to the crimes
and ufeful to society.
Art. 18. The right of property is, that
every man may dispose of his fubltancc, his
talents and his industry.
Art. 19. No kind of labour or mduib'y is
prohibited to citizens, who may buy, fell, or
transport it freely.
Art 23. A citizen, however, cannot fell
himfelf, his person not being alienable pro
perty.
Art. 2r. None can be deprived of his
right of property, but when putyic necefEty,
legally proved, evidently demands !t> and
on condition of a just and previous indemnity.
Art. 22. No contribution can be leved
but for the public good ; all citizens have a
right to alfent to its eftablifliinent.
Art. 23. Public inffcru&um is necessary to
all. *
Art. 24. Public succours are a debt due
from society.
Art. 95 The security of these rights is
an ast of sovereignty.
Art. 26. Sovereignty is one, indivisible,
and imprefcriptable.
Art. 27. It relides eflTentially in the peo
ple. Each citizen is equally entitled Co e^t-
ercife sovereignty.
Art. 28. No individual, or any union cf
citizens can arrogate to themfelvcs the ex
ercise* of sovereignty.
Art. 29. The facial tompadl cannot exist
where the limits of power are not exa&ly
fixed, an'd where agents are not made res
ponsible for their conduit.
Art. *30. All citizens are obliged to be
aiding to the law.
Art. 31. Men united in society ought to
have a legal means of refitting oppreffiou.
Art. 32. There is oppreflion when the
law violates natural right. There is oppreP
fion when the law is violated by the public
functionaries. There is oppreflion when ar
bitrary acts violate natural, civil and politi
cal rights of citizens. The manner of rcfift
ing oppreflion ought to be prefcrihed by the
constitution.
Art. 33. The people have tt» right of
changing the constitution. One generation
has no right to fubjeft to the constitution, fu
ture generations.
After the recognition of these rights, on
which the government is founded, the French
Nation is declared to form one indivisible
Republic.
The division into departments is retained ;
each department is divided into communes 01-
diftrifts, and each commune into municipal
feftions and primary aflemblies.
Primary Ajfemblics.
In the primary aflemblies, every man
aged 21 years has a right to vote, provided
that his name is inscribed on the civic table,
and that he lhall have resided one year in
France.
The primary aflemblies lhall be so distribu
ted in each department, that none lhall con
fid of less than 400, or 11, ore than 900
members j in each of the re a feleft commit
tee is to be chosen by ballot, consisting of as
many members as there are fifties of citizen?
in the aflembly.
In this committee, he who has the majori
ty of votes (hall be president of the aflembly ;
the three next 011 the lift (hall be secretaries.
The duty of the l'eleft committee is to keep
the records, and to arrange and submit the
business to the aflembly.
All ele&ions are to be carried on in those
aflemblies. The intermediate, or e e&otal
aiFemblier,, have no place in this code, The
ele&ions are to be made by what is called a
double scrutiny ; each gives in a signed lift
of candidates equal to the number of places
to be filled. These bulletins, or lifts of pre
sentation, as they are termed, are Cent to
the administration of each department.—
They feleft a triple number of those candi
dates who have most votes, and from those
font back to the primary aflemblies; a defi
nitive ele&ion is made, each citizen giving in
as before a lift of the candidates to whom he
gives his preference.
In the deliberations of these aflemblies, the
fame mode is to be followed as in the elec
tions. The question is to be (haped so as to
be answered by a simple negative or affirma
tive. Oil the day appointed for the decision,
each citizen gives in a faillrtin, or flip of paper,
inscribed with his name, and the word yet or
no. These are to be transmitted from the
d'ftrift to the department, where the general
result is to be ascertained.
(T$ he etnehiti in cur r.tx',)foreign Intelligence.
R.-I G A, (Russia) Feb. t.
A CCORDJNO to the last letters
•*l*. from Peterfburgii, the aditiira.!-
ly has;eiened orders from her im
perial niajelty to eqnij) fur ihe en
fuing'lpt lug ten llnp.s ot the line,
btlides ihe iixeen winch are alrea
dy fit for sea, of which thirteen aie
at Revel and two -.11 Croniladi. Jo
man this fleet, admiral Tl'chhftha
goff will levy 40,000 marines and
tailors.
M A 1) IVI D, Feb. 1 4
The molt extraordinary and ci;-
ei getic exertions take place in ail
our ports. .The oflicei sos the ma
rine have all received ordeis to re
pair to their polts, with all pollible
'speed. Our naval armament will
be ready for fen i:i eight'day's. The
public voice points out M. Latigara,
d'Artizabel, and Mazaredo, as the
molt eligible for Ihe coin niand of it.
The indignation of the people
upon the firft imcll'gence of rlie
death of Louis, was extreme. The
French relidents here were, obliged
to conceal 1 hemfelves to avoid the
popular fuiy ; and their indignati
on was, it pollible, increased, when
they were told the Convention had
refufed the King's mediation.
BERLIN, Feb. 16
His royal higlinefs Prince Henry
of Prussia, has entiled to be erected
in the palace of Rheilberg, a monu
ment, in honor of the noble La
moignon de Malefliei bes, the friend
and faithful servant of the unfortu
nate Louis XVI.
V I E N N A, Keb. 1 r
The following is an exatft state
, inent of the Imperial troops about
to open the campaign against the
common enemy ol the House of
Austria and of th* Empire ; —they
are divided into four armies :
I lie firil, under the Command in
Chief of h'ield-Marfhal Piince de
Saxe Cobourg, consists of fifty-three
battalions of infantry, and twenty
two divisions and an half of cavalry.
The 2d, under the command in
chief of Gen. Pi iuce de Hohenlohe,
°f 2 Z ba "aHons of infantry, and 19
divisions of cavalry.
1 lie 3d, under the command in
chief of Gen. Count Wenzel CoJlo
redo, of 29 battalions of infantry,
and 19 divisions of cavalry : And
I lie 4'li ; under the command in
chief of Gen. Count Stain and de
Vins, of 18 battalions of infantry,
and 7 divisions of cavalry.
Total Dumber of battalions of in
fantry, 127 —of divisions of cavalry,
671-2. J '
NETHERLANDS
Letter from General de Pirch to
Maj.Gen. Count de Brandwike.
" Sir, Venlo, March 2
" I fend you an account of Gen.
de Clairfayt. As it mult give uni
verlal pltalure, I have embraced tlie
earlicli oppoitunity of tranfmiting
it 10 you with a request, that you
will communicate it also wherever
you may think proper. Our arms
perhaps will have the fame fticcefs
to-morrow ; for the advanced pods
will be attacked, and we shall then
endeavor to get polletfion of Kure
mond. i am, &c.
(Signed) " DE PIRCH."
Official dispatch from Gen.Clairfayt.
" This day has been perfectly
/-fortunate for the lmpeiial Uoops.
Last night we cioiled the Roer, and
drove the enemy both from the
quarter of Duren, and that of Ju
dieis ; to the diftmce of one league
and a quarter beyond Alilenhoven.
The lols of the enemy in killed and
wounded, including prisoners, to
the number of 600, amounts on the
whole to iooo men. Twelve can
'noiis,thirteen ammunition waggons,
and their military theft alio fell
into our hands.
, " llis royal highness tlie Arch
duke Charles attacked in.person
ihis afternoon, with the advanced
-guard, feme battering vUere there
were nine cannons, ajict took pof
ieffion of them.
" Our lots amoiuns only to ten
killed and forty wounded. We par
ticularly icgi-ei; among (he former,
Col. de Pfortzeim and Capr. Mef
inanchers.
" You will be so kind, General,
as to communicate this account to
his Jerene highnels the Duke of
!>■ uni wjek.
'• At Head .Quaiters Gtrricrlil, of
Aldenhoveti, March lit, 1795.
(Signed) " CLAIRK/iJ I .
To lYiajoc General
tiarour ae YVeiirkheim.
AMSTERDAM, Feb. iy
By ltmer*»fiom Germany, tliepo
liiion of" Ibe Imperial and P;i ufiiaii
troops is an uiuniei rupted
Deux Horns to Cleves, and is fjjip
jiovted in tlie rear and centre by
the army ai Coblentz, making alto
gether about 1 Jo,ooo men.
D U fr-L f N, Marclt (2
The Lloyd's lifts of the lait Bri
tilli mails continue to give a dila
gieeabie legtiter of veliels «api ured
by (he enemy ; (he diltrels occali
onetl by which is hut pooi iy alluag
ed by the taking of ihiee merchant
ihips and half a dozen paltry priva
teers by his majelty's (hips of war
ill the tiritifli channel.
Sixty merchant fliips under the
convoy of two frigates from Lon
don down channel, having lain too,
in the night of the 14th of lait
month,. under the Jlleol Wight,two
trench privateers ltole in among
them and took fcveral by boarding
them.
What a fad'reverie of charadler
have the volunteers of Ireland ex
perienced in a few years !:—in 1 789
tlicy were courted, thanked, admir
ed, applauded — now, they are in
fuhed, deipifed, degraded, pro
scribed.
His Excellency the Lord Lieute
nant and Couucil have illued a Piot
claiuation, offeringa reward of tool,
lor apprehending the pei l'oll or per
sons who polled a I'edinous libel en
titled Society of United liilhtnen''
on the door pi the iioufe of Lords,
on the lit of March inltaiu.
FftANCE
national convention;
March 3
Letter from Cieu. Miranda to the
Minilter at war, dated Head Quar
ters, at riecton, Keb. 2J.
" Waedticht being invested ac.
cording to the orders 1 received, by
a body of 12,000 men on the left
banks of the Meufe, and by 6000 on
the right, we proceeded to foroi the
vyoiks and batteries neceliaiy for
the bombardment, ihe wnole have
been happily terminated the 23d,
011 the heights of Konwenberg, and
with the lot's only of three men kill
ed, not wit hltanding the conltunt
fire kept up Irom the garri'fon.
" Our batteries being to coin-!
mence firing yellerday at jioon, 1
lent funimoiiles to the Commandant
Geneial, and to the Magi Urates,
i lie answer of the Prince of Hetfe,
Governor of the place, was a lefuf.ll!
He gave me to undei Hand lerfialJy
by Col. Ainaudin. that hp hml fr. n .t
tiie laid summons very flrungaj as
he did not know that the Dtfieh
nation had declared war agarnft
Hranee, atid that if I permitted him
lie would fend a courier to their
High Mighiineties to requeit direc
tions on that head.
" Our fire commenced in the
night, supported by another batte
ry of mortars erected before Wick,
and loon after the tosvn appeared
to be 011 fire. The enemy found
means to extingtiifh it, but at' fix
this morning it was again in flames,
and is burning at this momenta
" While we were inverting the
place, the enemy to about 1200
made two forties,one towaidsWick'
and the other by the gate of St. Pe
ter. Our troops easily repulsed
then*, with loss on their part, while
vve had not a man killed. ****
I am in hatte to terminate this
operation^hat 1 may execute others
more eflenual, which 1 am
charged by Gen. Dumourier, as I
had the honor to inform y oa in my
''''patches. MIRANDA."
Letter from ven. Dumourier to the
Commilfioners at Bru-U'els.
Head garters, at Hyven-
Hjerge.i, Feb. 26.
• announce to you, thac we
have this iwgiu taken the fort of
-582
Klanderr. The gan ifon after hold
ing out eight houis, made their el
cape. They confided of {50 men,
73 of whom ive have made prifon
eis. We had only two wounded-.
An unionunaie woman has been
killed in the town. 1 (hall give
some indemnification to her family.
We found in the fort a gieat num
ber of rannons, 24 tB,-ar.d t2 poun
ders.— Wiiliamltadt will be attack
ed this night, and taken, notwith.
(lauding ihe number of frigates by
which it is defended, and which we
/ball oblige to retire. I wish 10 bar
rals you every day wit b the account
ot some new I'uccefs, This, though
6t great utility for my plans, not
being of the fame importance as 1 be
cap.-ure of Breda, 1 have not lent a
courier to Paris, and 1 oiily beg that
y oil "wilt (ran fill it this intelligence
to the Convention. DUMOUKIER.
• " P. S. On the 281 b, the day after
to-morrow, 1 (hall march againlt
GerVruj denberg."
Letter from tlie Mmitler at War.
Paris, March 5.
" I think it my duty to inform
you, that 1 learn by a letter whjch
1 have received from Gen. Valence,
that the Pruflians, to the number of
2 J or 30,000 men, have advanced to
the Roer to relieve Maeftficlit, an J
that the movement of the enemy
has induced Gen. Miranda to sus
pend the bombardment of the place.
I his event, of little importance iij
it fell, may only oblige 11s to attack
it in form, and retard us sometime
longer. Such is the piecife truth
of intelligence, which may be con
sidered as of more importance than
ic deserves, and on which it is my
duty to fix the opinion of the Nati
onal Convention."
Paris is now in the mod profound
tranquility. The plans of the in
fmgents, or more properly of their
inltigators, are coinpleatly defeat
ed, at least for the present. The
examination now rigorously going
on, will probably bring Ibme of the
latter to piuiifhment.
LONDON, Feb. 22.
T hole who speak so coolly of the
ease xviih which Holland may pre
vent the entrance of an enemy by
laying the country under water,
reason in much the fame way as the
lrifhman in Joe Miller, who laid,
he did not much fear being con
demned to be hanged, for he could
any time save his lite by cutting his
throat in jail.
It is (aid, as a proof of the popu
laiity of the war, that 1500.recruits
were railed last week in Manchef
tei. Alas !is it not rather a proof,
that the war has already suspended
the looms of Manchelter.
i he great houle which Hopped a
few days for near half a million of
money, goes on again with additi
onal credit and refpedtability, from
its being afcSrtained that its real
property was very great, after all
the claims upon it were discharged.
His royal highness the Duke o f,
York is tp command the whole bo
dy of the Hanoverian army, as well
as to be commander in chief of the
tSntifl, forces serving on the conti
nent.
Wednesday made, the one hun
dredth day of Mr. Haftings's trial.
The trial was thinly attended vef
terday, and the Hall about4o'clock
was 'o cold, that the gallery bench
es, were soon deferred.
The French bend the whole of
their force in fitting out privateers
aga 1 nit this country, but hitherto
they have not met with much fac
ets ; the convention encouraged
this fy Item as much as polfibie, and
bounties are offered for fitting out
privateers.
Saturday about 270 of the royal
art■Ue.-y embarked on board the
Woolwich, guns, Capt.Parker,
at Spit head. One company are to
be landed at Gibraltar, the remain
dei are for the windward islands.
Al %rw er > i a(l ietter to L ° rti
Auckland, lt is f al d, has a fmatk of
that joke wb.ch he fomedmes mix
u7' 1 V< C rer '°us matters.
He fcys, As yo „ f)o |)or thjnk
confident with your dignity, to tra
vel in this unpleafanc weather to
!o e vbn" e w th n I Wa ,", ,f>4 ' 1 ,bail c <"»e
!?e P ul >licans can ira
-111 all weathers ; and I dare fay,
J'ou will not nr , m ,
ons, when 1 fl, a || rental,?, P '
Exchange of Ail.Herd a n» " " ,e
been prod Jtd , o(;(gf HW
H»e me, A.re foE'lfcri?
"on, an.l to fay "Vu
Uon, we need only add h,^ 1 "
land thus covered,'«ill b' e , r '|' h ,e
year., before it u-cover, 'J f
g'ee us vegetative powers '
.".e pati.ot. of Holland ar e fi(f
ficiently iiume.ousto he fomiidaM."
but chat iUey aie divide,}
tliemlelves. The obj;Vst ufonriftr
[y" '"• r . e, y «»* «pt.if.ou of
Stadtholder, vvhltout any f url L r
change in the government. T|,,
other and more nun.e.oiu ,*,l,
7' f or . • the
W7/ f/ '"'public. £ Ut . lt
lr til thoy not uoift ?
We very properly execrate the
savage and ferocious practice of a
mob parading tl )e streets of Paris
with the heads of tlude the* |, a e
decollated ; yet the LegHlaiure 0 f
this country, less than fifrv yeau
ag o , Decreed, That the heads of
three men toot,ld be exhibited upon
one of the city gates, for ihe con
templation of every civilized paflen.
ger—the admiration of every f O .
r . e, £ ne ' ai>(l the K'atifKation 0 f
those llrong-beaked birds that feaft
on blood! 11l this fmwiotv as a
mark oi national civilization, one of
the heads remained full forty yeau.
Letters from Ireland relate, that
the great qnettion of Parliamentary
reform has been loft there by a ma.
jority of eighty-eight. The previ.
ous qiK'ftion was moved upon a it-
I'olution piopofed by the advocates
for reform. A considerable fer
ment has begun to prevail in that
kingdom, and the volunteer cirrpi
in the North are increased from
600 to 800 men each.
It is reported ihat government
have received the disagreeable in
lelligence, that two ihnufand dis
senters wete openly in arms at Btl
talt, under the command of a Mr.
Htzgerald, and, as is believed,with
the advice bf leveral of the Dublin
contenders for popularity,
March 7
1 he Dolphin packet, Capt, I'lyn,
and Prince of Wales, Capt. Heain,
arrived at Harwich yelterday with
the mails, and several pallengers, to
the number 120 ; amongst others
were, Mr. Hope, of Amsterdam, and
Mrs. Williamfon Hope, with Iter
children. Keforeihey let fail,they
had the pleaf"ure of fering the gnardi
who had arrived fife, and landed
at Helvoet-fluys on Saturday even-
ing, reviewed by his royal hignefi
the Duke of Yor4i and the young
Prince of Orange.
The people at Amsterdam and
Rotterdam are in the utmolt confu
flOll.
The Stadtholder, however, feenn
to be unmoved and serene ; aud as
fbnte cotintei balance for-rhe ill for
tune.at Breda, a courier arrived, a
few hours before the packet failed,
with the important intelligence,
" that Gen. Clairfayt had attacked
the French at Venlo, and, after a
desperate engagement, taken 600
prisoners, with their arms, and kill-
Ed 2006 on the spot."
March 9.
Repulse before Williamjladt,
- The following particulars of the
defeat of the French before Wil-
liamftadt, were communicated in a
letter to a refpeciable merchant in
the city, brought by the tneflenger
which arrived yelterday from Hol
land. It is with an honest pride we
havg to itate, that a part of o»r
countrymen were actively engaged
in so glorious a butinefsi
Capt. Manley of the Syren, hav
ing previously concerted lhe bills
tiels with i lie governor of William
ftadt, brought his fl)ip to bear fuc-
cefsfully upon tlie Fiench army.—-
The French made an attack, in
which they were much annoyed by
the fire of the Englifli frigate.
This, as it was unexpected, Do
mourier was unprepared for. The
garrison made a Tally, and 700 or
the French were killed by the fit®
of the garrison, and the Syren to-
geiher.The French fell back, but return
ed again to the attack—At this mo
ment a sluice was opened, which had
the delired effedt—upwards of rooo
of the enemy were killed by the
fire of the Syren, the spirit and vi
gour of the garrifpn, and the effetft
of the inundation. Dumourier found
it in vain to persist. He abandoned
his works, and retired to the dis
tance of a league, up to tiie middle
in water.
Hague, March 4. An account
has been received of a complete vic
tory gained over the French at
Venlo, by Prince Frederick of
Brunfvrick. The circumltances of
this action are not yet accurately
detailed; but it is laid that IJOO
Frenchmen are taken pri (oners,
with 22 pieces of cannon.
The siege of Maeilricht is raised.
The tide of the affairs of France
begins to change. The immense
force of the empire begins to get iu
motion, and its weight will be found
irrefiftable.
Dnmourier has withdrawn bim
fell'from before Williamftadc ; it is
conjectured, fn consequence of tlie
news of 2 iucb iignal defeats as his
colleagues have experienced- Me
has retired to the diflrance of a
league from that fortrefs. If he is
not expeditious in retreating out of
the Dutch territory.it is more than
probable that his retreat will be en
tw-eJy for the vi<ftoriousarr
hiies of Clairfair, & tlie two princes
above named, will pour in upon him
and surround him.
The effect this intelligence has
had in Holland, is inconceivable.—
The people befoi'6 were calmly de
termined to facrifice their lives for
their country, now they look for
ward to victory and revenge, for
the unprovoked aggrefiion of the
French, and the evils which it has
■brought upon a part of their coun
try.
Dover, March 8. A perfonjuft
iriivcd from Kindling, and who left
that place yesterday, afleris it for a
truth, that Breda has been retaken
by the Dutch and Prussian troops.
Harwich, March 8. Mr.SyNef
ter, one of his Majesty's nieflengers,
ariived express tins morning by the
Prince of Orange Packet, from Hel
voetflnys.
In confequonce of Gen. CJairfait's
.narching for ibe relief of Maef
tricht, the French have raised the
liege of that important fortrefs.
A report prevailed in Holland
previous to the failing of the Prince
of Orange Packet, that the Prufiians
liad taken ioq pieces of cannon, and
o large supply of ammunition that
were on the toad for the supply of
Dumourier's array ; and further,
that the Duke of Brunfwick had had
an engagement with the French,
and totally defeated them ; in con-
Sequence of which between three
and four thousand were taken pri
soners, and left dead in the field.
The Auft i ians had attacked a bo
dy of't'rench, detached across tlie
Meui'e to keep Jnliers in c,heck ;
upwards of 2000 were killed or ta
ken priloners, and the whole de
tachment put to the route,
Miranda, in his retreat to Rure
monde, loft 8 pieces of cannon.
Prince Frederick of Pruflia had
attacked Ruremonde,and hada com
plete victory, by which that impor
tant port had come into the hands
of ilie Auftrians.
Gertrtiydenberg has furrendev-ed
to the French, after 3 days bom
bardment, on ihe fame terms as
Breda.
The Prince de Cobourg has fuc
cefsfully attacked ihe French at
•Aix la Chapelle, who after a vigo
rous refinance, in which 4000 men
were killed, and i,600 taken priso
ners, were obliged to evacuate that
place, and leave behind them 120
pieies of cannon, and a great quan
tity of military (tores.
In addition to the foreign news
alreadj detailed, we have to state,
that Gen. Beaolieu was marching
to the attack of Liege, and that the
rench were in t he utmost confulion.
The Stpdtholder has given the
command tif the naval force to Ad
niiral Koningfbergen ; and ftomihe
stSivity which prevails,it is probable
Duniourier will not advance further
into the coujitrv,
Domestic Articles.
KNOXVILLK, Mjrcli 9-
We learn, the repaid o.i'jred by the Presi
dent of the United States for apprehending
the leader of the party who destroyed the Che
rokee town of Teuchtotee, has induced some
perfoiK to apprehend David M'Gloifcy, ofTu
ge1o ? in Georgia. On his being apprehended,
and uritl! his arrival at Augiifta,beqonhdeieii
it as a trivial affair; but upon '.lis arrival
there, the officers of government had MiU
confined in heavy irons, and froth thence tent
to Savannah, to be tried before the federal
court.
011 Wednesday "last the Hanging Maw vifis
- the encampment of the federal troop 3,
commanded by M. Rickard,on. which occaliqn
a federal salute was fired.
WILMINGTON, (Del.) April 27.
Yeilerday arrived at Kew-Caftle ? the ship
American, Capt, Ewing, from Londonderry,
in five weeks, with 250 paiftngers. Captain
Ewing informs, that Capt. Syiveftcr, of the
ftiip Wafliington, was to fail from London
derry the 2Dth of Apul-r-and that Captain
Jefferie-i, of the lliip "Wilmington, was to fall
the fame day from Bel fa ft.
This morning passed this place, the l'Em
bufcade, a French frigate of 38 gnns, the lame
which landed the French AmbafTador at
Charleston, S. C. We are informed Ihe has
brought up two prizes, the brig Little Surah,
mounting 14 guns, bound to Jamaica, taken
offSenepuxent, and the Ihip Grange, bound
to .Liverpool, taken at the Brown, or rather
brought back, it being within the limits of the
United States.
CHARLES'! QN (S. C ) April 15.
YeHerday I'Embulc.'de added to Ihe nutr.brr
of~pr 1 t't-s already sent in here, by thecaptuie of
the Dutch ChipSuccefs, Lang, nialli rjfiorft
Bremen, laden with dry goods, iiou,&r.
A house of rendezvous lot entering feameh
for the French service, was on Saturday opened
in Qtteen-fticet, at which the national fi*g was
diiplayed ihe greater part of the day. In the
evening, however, it was loweied, fa id to be in
conftquence of orders from the highclt execu
tive au' 1101 it v.
Foil Johnson and other points of dcfcrtcc in
our harooui, are ordered to be lepaired and
fitted up with artillery, &c. in order to prevent
or relent any national mful'., as well as all out
rages again (it he eftablUhed law of nations.
The (hip Su'ecels,of Bremen, whir.h A*as ft nt
into this port on Sunday last, as aprize to ihe
frigate I'E.ml.ufcade, has b en iclKored to the
Matter for the oiiginal owncis.
Philadelphia, May 1.
The Governor of this Commonwealth has
iflued two proclamations ; One, corrobora
tive of that iiniect by the i'upreme- executive
of the United States—declarative of the neu
trality oi' the General Government in the pre
sent war ; the other re (petting the treaty
ftiortly to be held with the hostile Indians—
interdi&ing and prohibiting any hostile iucur
fions into the Indian country, until the effedt
of the proposed Treaty Hiall he ascertained.
Monday afternoon the biig Little Sarah, a
prize to the French Frigate I'EmMifcade
came op. By the account of a French offi
cer on board this prize it appears, that the
Grange was taken just in the bay, while un
der fail. It feeins to be generally allowed,
that /he consequently cannot be considered as
a lawful prize.
Capt. Hayes of the American Sloop Sally
arrived Monday, fays that the Frigate fired
at her fcveral times in the bay or river, we
do not positively recollett which, to make
her ihew her colours and come to.
Sunday night the (hip Mary, Capt. Colley,
helonging to Newbury port, caught fire—
which was not extinguished till the cabin and
quarter-deck were consumed.
By authentic lettcu from Madrid of the id
of March last, we learn that the King of Spain
had, on the 271b of February, appointed his
Excellency Don Diego de Gardoqui, 10 ncgo
ciate wilh ihe Ameiiean Plenipotentiary.
L Iters from Cadiz of the 9111 ol Maich men
tion, ihai the Frcncb had captured some Sp.'ni(h
vclliji, and that there are orders at Cadiz to
flop all French vrffels in thut harbour.
A soldier was lately {hot at for
being concerned in a conlpiracy to rob
mutder two of the pavmafters.
On the Bth of January lust, Lunardi af-'
cerded in a balloonat Madrid, in the pi'efence
of their Catholics Majesties, tlw Royal Fa
milv, and a great croud oi people offcll ranks-
He changed the fignie of his #erollatic globe
to that of a temple in the clouds, adorned,
with columns and statues, afterwards he;
changed it to a Chinese building, with arches'
and ftatnes, then to half temple and half;
Chine le building, and cafl anchor «t twenty
miles from Madrid ; he then proceeded to a
y ast height (alruoftout of fight)—at four o'clock
he cast anchor again, at 38 mibs from Mad
rid, where he ft ripped his balloon oi about
730 yards of tbfc linpfl with which he had
made the above mentioned changes ! he then
set Oil again, and at. dnfli landed near the ci
ty of Orcarco, j6 miles from Madrid. His
aerial voyage lailfive hours.
On Monday the ijih inft departed th;s life-,
in tße£<)th vrai of his age, 'he Re». Ro»**t
Smith, D. D. paftn' of'he Piefbyterian cfcurth
at Pcquea, and on WedneGday "following hi» re
mains were interred in ihr prcfcucc of a.witfif
rous concourle of peopte. of various denymina
tionsi amongll whom he was generally and
highly refpeftcd. The Rev. Nathan Grier, of
Brandywinr, (Iflivered an excellent etflOgiutn
of the d< ceafrri, and a very affe.ain* address 10
the people upon the occa'.mrt, ..from ad. Kings,
2, >2.
3 8 -3
F-xtra& as a letter from 3ourdcttux t dated Jan. 20.
" Grain is now very fearce here, and de
manded at the prices below ; alio all articles
of provifjoii—and the demand likely to conti
nue during the war, or until a plentiful crop
lujjplic."? the rmal and imaginary wants. Tlie
value of the afiignats have cOnfide r ably depre
ciated lately, and exchange on England is now
ller.per iivre—uncertain and fluctuating.
Articles of fubftftence do not fluctuate with
t«e exchange, though it is the thermometer
tor molt others. This may be attributed to
the system adopted by .the government for
procuring their supplies through agents of go
vernment, and not in the ordinary channel of
comiruj»rt—heat and flour are not higher
now than in November, when exchange was
7(1» i»er livre, or thereabout*—Tobacco is
ieadVfa'le, and ndt a great proviiion in nva^r-
'' 't'here i* a late dccree'of the Convention
to arpi immediately 30 fail of the line and 20
frigates, wllith added to the number alieady
equipped ul fail of the line and . frigates,
will make a ijoiiftderable fleet—The failur
carpenters, rone-makers, &c. t.-c. are clafl'ed
as UTidei" the former government, and they
hive heretofore gone'oifwithout murmuring
to the dbck-yafrds, and I think they wjll con
tinue t»go, atlk-aft from this and the neigh,
boring <4>Jace&i without difficulty. The un
dcnvriters refiife all premiums of infurauce.
Exchange, fcondon ij| a £ livres.
' Ainfterdam 29J a 30
" Madrid 27
Wheat
I'loW
. Indian Corn
Ktce
aj a 24 per BoilTeau.
52 a ,55 per barrel.
12 per BoilTeau.
36 a 38 per Ct.
Tobacco 40 a 6:5 per ditto.
Whifc Oil V JT a SJ per 3jtto!
Sperm. do. 83 aBS ppr'ditto.
Vfimle hoaej tort 160 a 200. pit" riitt'j.
7o a 76 per ditroi
Pear [ditto' » Si per difcM/'
,-Baet' 63 a 80 per barrel.
Pork . 9 0a li° per ditto.
Exfrafl of a letter to fieviy Drinker,
Hit fit, M. D. and Tench Coxe, of the city of P\i-
Ud;/phiii t dated Cooper"s-Town, head of Sufque>
kanna i April 9.
•* Gentlemen,
<* Being convinced that you feci an intercft in
the'manufactory ot maple sugar, and that vour
wiUu'S and exertions to prevent the drftru&ion
of the trees from whence it is produced, have
been of public utility, we are encouraged to
transmit to'you the lUtemenc we have been
able to make frnm a&ual observation, of the
quantity of sugar wlrieh has-bern made this fea
jfop in the former townlhip of O'fegro, am)
whVcft was an entire wilderuefs in 1786. We
find, up >n a moderate calculation, that there has
been made at least 160,000 lb. which, atgd. per
pound, is equal in to 15,000 dollars.
This plain demonftratmn of the importance of
this article will, we hope, induce you to conti
nue your endeavors to promote and encourage
if ; and we would submit to your consideration
W+ffrfttgf "Er is not an ofajeft of faffieient confe
quencc to claim the encouragement of the legis
lature of your (Ute." Signed,
William Cooper Richard R Smith,
Renfel'r Williams, jun. Charles Francis,
Lewis de Villcrs, Ebbal.
COMMUNICATIONS.
" The example of France (fays a writer in
the National Gazette) hath {truck terror into
Mgovirnmenis 1 ' —the indefinitenefs of this ex
pression, plainly implies that the writer con
siders all government as injurious ; this is but
an old objection of the enemies of public tran
quility, new vamped. Thee are persons in
she world to whom a// government is intoler
able.
The provision for paying S'le interest of the
public debt has long been a grievance to per
sons of a certain description, becanfe the dif
charging our obligations, involved the necef
fity.of tr.xes and revenue; but thefeconfident
poljficiaijs now take it in dudgeon, that the
government will not involve the people in in
calculable expence, by plunging them in an
-tro«*ceffary war !
<, It i* too apparent, that the enemies of the
public credit of thi-. country, despairing 0 f
fuqeefs in their machinations to overthrow
the funding fyfiem, are now attempting to
implicate the United States in the war 'aging
between France and the combined powers,
doubtless expe£ting in that event to be favor
ed with an opportunity of executing their fa
vorite plan by rendering the public burthens
requisite for both objects, infupportable.—lt
is impoflibie that the people should not jujlly
appreciate such politics.
The oldCongrefs had the hardiness to stamp
on, their paper money this injunction, mind
your bujinefs; how well this applies to our vo
lunteer ftatefmcn, it is not difficult to shew ;
but, modern politics enntradift the old faying
that what is every body's business," is nobody's
bnfinefs.
When success crowns our enterprizes it is
indicative of their having been planned in
wisdom. The men who have been the prin
cipal agents in conducing the affairs of this
count'/to a situation far more eligible and
pr«fpero*rt than any ageor nstiotrever before
experienced, are, through the favor of Pro
vidence at the Helm at this critical juncture
in t>;e concerns of Europe. Let experience
teatfh us wisdom, and inspire the people with
confidence in those who have so long ei joyed
their their approbation. If thole who have
done worthily for their countiy are rewarded
with opprobium and abuse ; 14 the post of ho
nor will soon be considered as confined to a
private station."
A Utter from a <n in to hi>
frini in this city, iaud Shrek 18t/i, fays,
" It is scarcely possible to convey to you an
Adequate idea of the present *ate of Europe.
All its Kings, all it* Prieft*>»are combined
agiinft the new republic ol'Frincr, aad nu>
!>v hundred thousand of msi( are now m arms,
to restore Kingly Power, and the influence
of the Church in that country. None of the
hostile powers have entered into this war
with a greater zeai and acrimony tban En
gland, the people whereof, at any rate, a
great majority of them, are ar, keen for ex
terminating Liberty in France, at thcv were
formerly for fubjagating Che thirteen Colonies.
The Scotch, however, are not so unanimous
upon this occafinn, as they were then : a
great number in Scotland being ujjainft the
war. As to Ireland, I think I may f.ifelji fav,'
that two thirds of the people, in their prefeut
discontented State of mind, are completely
adverse to the present fvftem of English poli
tics. As to the French themfelvr'., if they
were unanimous at home, they might be a
match ferall t ieir enemies. Twq of their
General?:, Doinourier and Cuftine, are men
ot wonderful fortune and ability : But the
queltionable execution of rhcir King, which
has estranged many moderate men from their
and the horrible diflentions in Paris
concluded or excited by the execrable fa<stion
of Kohei.'pierre £r Marat,have caused a doubt
at least a fear, that the really virtuous men
among them, are too few and too weak to
carry their upright intentions into effect. In
the mean time, the government of Ireland is
carrying on a high and flrong band in cou
janftion with the Englilh minlfter—A man
dare not speak, or fearcelv think, tor fear of
the Secret Committee of the Lordi, who have re
newed all tie arbitrary proceedings of the
Star Chamber. Every man or body of men,
who presume to talk of liberty, or a reform
of a corrupt Conllitution in Church and State,
are prosecuted and persecuted, fined or con
fined, or both, after a very fbmmary trial;
and the Irish Volunteers, once the glory
and the bn:iit r>f their are now. open
ly calumniated and pro bribed."
lrt>Ni>QN, Mtrch
A left?r was received in rnwn on Monday
last, (rom Co!. Grinfield of the gtiai'ds, wlio
command? at Helvoet, dated Saturday the9th
inft. at noon—He ftat«, that on' that mo'ii
injr, Dinnourier, after having fired upon the
town of Willianiftadt for 24 hours without
intermission, with red hot balls, was resolved
to make an attempt on the north of the town
by water, for which puipofe lie embarked
l os hU men in boat*;—Thefe boat" were
purl'ued and vigornufly attacked by the Dutch
armed boats, and everv one of them funk;
not a Tingle Frenchman out of the 13,000 el
<4 fi'gftcry this.
caped.
SHIP NEWS
the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Ship American, £wing, Londonderry
Biig Nancy, Harris, Martinique
Aurora,
Croft,
O'Neal,
Haves,
f nines,
Chester,
Sloop Sally,
Supply,
Portvj tforfoH'. April 16, 1703.
NOTICE TO MARINERS.
Beacons are put down at the following places •
Willoughbv-point Beacon, in 4 iathom wa:e»\
The light-hoi)fe bearing from fa id Bc?con, E.
by S. 1-2 S. 5 leagues—Back river poinr, N. 1-2
W. 3 leagues—Sand Hill on old Point Comfort,
the leading »r.ai k W. by N. a liulc northwardly.
Horft-Shoe Beacon, in four t«,thotn water.
The light-house bearing from said Beacon, S E.
distance 3 leagues—Crump's Hill bearing S. W.
Back river, N. W. by W.—Wiliougbby's Bluff
bearing W. hy S.
Middle-Ground Beacon, in 4 fathom water.
The lighr-houfa bearing S by W. f-2 W. dis
tance 2 leagues—Smith's Island N. N. E. dis
tance 5 leagues—The Hoife-fhoe Beacon W.
1-2 N. diflancc 3 lr*<mee
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, 17/6
3 pei Cents, ' gfio
Deferred, 10J 6
Full lliares Bank U. S. q per crnt. prem,
DEPARTMENT of STATE, to wit.
NOTICE is hereby given to pcrfons iuter
efted-.in the prooerry or the proceedings
ot CLAUDIUS PAUL RAGUETT, a citizen
of Pennsylvania, lately rieCeafed, at Bourdeaux,
in Franc*, that on application at the Office of
the Secretary o( State, they may receive infor
mation relative thereto, as • transmitted by Mr.
Fen wick, Consul for the United States at
Bourdraux,
GEORGE TAYLER, jun. Chief Clerk.
Philadelphia, April 30, 1793. 3 f
Albany Glafs-Houfe.
The Pioprictors of the Glafs-Manufackory, under
the Firm of
M'CLALLEN, .M'GREGQRW.Cq^
BEG leave to inlorm the public, that they have
now brought the:r WINDOW-GLASS to
such perfection, as will be found, on comparison,
to be equal, in quality, to the bell London
Crown Glass.
Having fixed their piic*s at a lower rare than
imported Glass, they are induced to believe, that
importationsbf this article wiU be difcoi»iinned t
in proportion as their works are extended.-—
They piopofc ;o enlarge the fcalf of this busi
ness, and as the fucce.fs of it will depend on the
patriotic support of the public, they beg leave tp
solicit their in the purfpit of
a branch which will intered every lover of
AMEKICAN Manufactures.
All orders for Window-Glass, of any size,
will he received at the Store of Rhodes a nil
MacGregor, No. 234, Queen-ftreci, New*
York, and at the Glass Wa r ehouse, No. 48,
Market-street, Albany, which will be puu£tual)y
attended to.
&T WANTED, fix smart aftiye LADS, not
exceeding 16 vears of age, to be indented as
Apprentices, and regularly inftrufted in the
various b'afiches of Glass Making.
Also, three Window-Glass Maker*,to whoifc
great efttouragement vrrji be #iven.
'Vfrj »I 1793.
Char'ennn
Halifax
St. Croix
Bermuda
epiaw3Y THE
PRESIDENT oj the United States
of America
A Proclamation.
WHEREAS it appears, that a state of
war exifti between Auflria, Prullia,
Sardinia, G. Britain, and the Un»ted Nether
lands, of the one part; and France, on the
other—-and the duty and interest of the Uni
ted States require, that they fbould with fin
rerity and good faith adopt and pursue a con
duit friendly and impartial towards the bel
ligerent powers.
I HAVE therefore thought fit by these
presents, to declare the disposition of the
United States to observe the conduit afore
faid towards thoi'e powers refpeftively; and
to exhort and warn the citizens ofthe United
States carefully to avoid all adts and proceed
iugs whatsoever, which may In any manner
tend to contravene such disposition.
AND I DO hereby alio make known, that
whosoever of the citizens of the United States
/ball render himfelf liable to punishment or
forfeiture under the law of nations, by com
mitting, aiding or abetting hostilities against
any of the said powers, or by carrying to any
of them those articles, which are deemed con
traband by the modern usage of nations, will
not receive the protection of the United
States against such punishment or forfeiture ;
and further, that I have given inftru<stions to
those officers, to whom it belongs, to cause
prosecutions to be instituted against all per
sons, who (hall, within the cognizance of the
Courts of the United States, violate the law
of nations, with refpe<Jt to the powers at
war, or any of them.
IN TESTIMONY whereof, I have cau
sed the Sea! of the United States of
America to be affixed to these pre
sents, and signed the lame with my
hand. Done at the City of Philadel
■—phia, the twenty-second day of April,
( L - s -) one thousand seven hundred and nine
ty-three, and of the Independence of
the United States of America the se
ven teenth.
G. Washington.
By the President,
Th: JEFFERSON.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
BookfclUr, at the Stone-Houfc, in Second Jlreet,
Philadelphia,
VOLUME VIII, of
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
OR, A DICTIONARY OF ARTS, SCIENCES,
•aUD MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
On a Plan entirely new :
ST WHICH
The Different SCIENCES and ARTS
are digested into the Form of Diftinft,
TREATISES or SYSTEMS :
THIS VOLUME CONTAINS
AN Account of the Cape of Good Hope,
Grafting, Universal Grammar, Grafles,
Greece, Greenland, Guam, Guinea, Gunnery,
Happiness, Harmony, Heat, Hepatic-Air, He
ra Id iy,Hindoftan, Hi ppopotan«us,Hiflory, New-
Holland, Horse, Hoifemanlhip, Hottentots,
Hunting, Husbandry, Hydrometer, with a great
variety ol Biographical and Miscellaneous Arti
cles. Embellilhed with sixteen Copperplates.
CONDITIONS.
I. The work is printing on a fuperfine paper,
and new types, (cast for the purpose) which
will be occasionally renewed before they con
trail a worn appearance.
11. The work is furniftied in boards, in volumes
Or half-volumes, as fubferibers price
of the whole volumes, five dollars each, of the
half-volumes two dollars and two-tbiids ol a
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on sub
scribing, the volumes or half-volumes finifhed
to be paid for when delivered, the price of one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each succeeding volume to be paid on deliver
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
work will be delivered unless paid for.
111. In the course of the publication will be de
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia: which by
far exceed in number those given in any other
fcientific dictionary. At the close of the pub
lication will be delivered an elegant frontif
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for the different volumes,
It isexpefted lhe woik will be compiifed in
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
(plr As several gentlemen who have honored this
undertaking withearly fubfcHptions, have only re
ceived a Jmali part of the work, they art earnejlly
requefled to complete their Jets, as far as published,
immediately, while the publisher JIM has it in his
' power to Supply them with the parts uihkh have not
been furnijhed. As the fabjeribtion will very pol
ity ie clofidby the firfi of July next' lift puhhjheY
cannot undertake to complete Jets ajter that period ;
Mud tha/e who wifli to become pojfejfors of this truly
valuable and important work, will pteaje apply before
the expiration of that time, that they may not be dif
appomted.
The very heavy expence necejarih incurred in car.
tying on this work, makes it tndijpenfabh require
for the puHtfher to adhere more Jtritth than he has
done to the original condition, of delivering the vo
lumes only on being paid for them, ~
April 6, 1793.
TICKETS
Jn the FEDERAL CITY LOTTERY,
May fee had at SAMUEL COOl'Eß's Ferry.
City of Washington.
A January 7th, 1793.
NUMBER of Lois in this City will be of
fered tor sale at auction, by the Commis
sioners, on the 17th day of September next.—
One fourth part of the purchase money is to be
paid down, the reftdueat three equal annual pay
ments with yearly interellon the whole princi
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANfTT, Clerk to the Com'rs.
Extra£l of an A£} of the General Afietnbjy of
Maryland, Concerning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and the City of Wafhingtoon.
" Be it- mailed, That any foreigner may by
dud or will, hereafter to be made, take and hold lands
within that part oj the jaid Territory which hex with
in this State, in the fame manner as if he was a citi
zen of this State { and the fame lands may hi con
veyed by him, and transmitted to and be inherited fy
his heirs or relations, as if he and they were citizens
of thu State : Provided, That no foreigner (hall,
m virtue hereof, be entitled to any further or other (
privilege of u citizen."
Jan. 19.
NEW TEA S.
IMPERIAL,HYSON&SOUCHONG
Ofthe very firft quality,and latest importation
from Canton, via New-York, by retail,at
No. 19,
Third, between Chcfnui and Market Streets.
N. B. A Jew Boxes oflfie above HYSON for fate.
By THOMAS JOHNSON, DAVID
STUART,&DANIEL CARROLL,
Efquiresy
Commission er s appointed by Government to
prepare che Public Buildings, &c. within (be
City of Wajkington, for the reception of Con
gress, and for their permanent residence after
the year 1800—
A LOTTERY
TOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City.
50,000 Tickcts at 7 dollars, are 350,000 dollars.
LIST OF PRIZES, viz.
l Superb Hotel, with baths, )
out houses, Scc.&c. to cod J
1 Cash Prize
l ditto
l ditto
1 ditto
2 ditto
10 ditto
20 ditto
100 ditto
200 ditto
400 ditto
1,000 ditto
15,000 ditto
16,737 Prizes
33,263 Blanks
50,000
By this scheme at haft the amount of the tick
ets will return to the fortunate adventurers, and
yet the federal City will gain its object thereby,
in a magnificent building designed both for'pub-
Jic and private convenience.
Although some expence must necefTarily at
tend the conducing of the lottery, (which ex
pence will be taken from the principal prize) the
Coinmiffioners having agreed to present in re
turn a fufficient quantity of excellent free-ftone,
together with the best adapted lots for the hotel
and for the out-houfes, the value of the lottery
entire may be fairly rated at something more than
par: In this important instance it will be found,
on examination, to exceed all the lotteries that
have ever been offered to the Public in this or
perhaps m any other country. The keys of the
Hotel, when compleat, will be delivered to the
fortunate pofTeflor of the ticket drawn aagainft
Us number.—-AW the other prizes will be paid,
withoutddduflion,in one monthafter the drawing, by
the City Treasurer at Washington, or at such
Bank or Banks as may be hereafter announced,
for the conveniency of the fortunate adventq'ers.
The drawing will commence on Monday tfie
9th ofSeptcmbei next, at the City ofWaftiing.
1 ickets may be had of Col. W m . Dickens, City
Treasurer of Washington ; Thayer & Barttet, of
Charleston, South-Carolina ; Gideon Denilon Sa
vannah ; Messrs. James Wejl & Co. Baltimore:
Mr. leter Gilman, Boston ; and at such other
places as will be hereafter publilhed.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given for the best Plan of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and cold
Baths, Stables, and other out houses, if brefented
on or before the ,o th of April next-, and a pre.
ferertcc will be given 10 the Artist for a Con.
tratt provided he be duly qualified to
cpmpleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be erected, will
be a coiner lot of about go by 200 feet, with a
back avenue to the stables, & c . Sea.ons and
eft.mates of the expense will be expefled
with the elevations, &c. compleat ; and 50,000
dollars must be regarded by the Archiu-a as the
utmost limit in the expense intended for this
P ur P° fe - S. BLODGET,
jf l r Agent for lhe the City
March 5, 1793.
TO BE SOLD,
A noted covering Horse
OF THE HUNTING BREED.
TTE impoited from England in Novem-
L X bcr, fevcnieen hundred and eighty-fix an A
is now ten years old ; he is a bright* bay, X,
blaze,fifteen handsone inch high, is well form'd
has a great deal of bone and ftrcngih, and his
a 1 «l ual f to »«>' horse. His col.s are «
iESS
February 18, 3793. gt
epim
50,000
25,000
20,0C0
15,000
10,000
5,000 are
1,000
s°°
100
50
2 5
20
10
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
20,0©0
150,000
Dollars 350,000
384
Ju]} published,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Stone Houje, Mo. 41, South Second-Street,
A CASE,
Decided in the Supreme Court of the United
States, in which is difcuCed the Qucftion,
WHETHER A STATE IS LIABLE TO BE
SUED BY A PRIVATE CITIZEN OF
ANOTHER STATE >
Price Half a Dollar.
Post-Road
TO THE GENESEE COUNTRY.
r T"' , HE ptibTic are hereby informed, that the
JL P'jtt-Road from Philadelphia to Reading,
is continued to Sunbury and Northumberland ;
thrnce up ihe Weft Branch of the Sufquehannah
as far as Licoming; thcnce to the Painted Post
(in New-York ftatc, near the foi ks of the Tioga)
thence to Bath (a town laid out on ihe Cohofton
Branch of the Tioga) thcnce to Williamfburg,
at the forks of Genefee River.
Letters for this new route will be sent from
the Philadelphia Poft-Ofticc every Wednesday
morning, at eight o'clock, with the mail lor
Reading,
A weekly mail will alio be carried from
Beihlehem to Wil(ke(b3rre, in the county of
Luzerne.
General Pojl-Ojjicc, April 6, 1793.
ADVERTISEMENT.
WHEREAS a BRIDGE is 10 he built over
Raiitan River, at the cily of Ncw-Brunf
wick, in the state of New-Jerfe) —10 acoomplifh
which, will require the service ot many carpen
ters and masons of experience ; Notice is there
fore hereby given, that any person or persons in
clining to undertake the whole, or any part there
of, by applying to the fubferibers, on or before
the firft day of Mav next, may have an oppoitu
nity of contracting for the fame.
JOHN BAYARD,
JACOB HARDENBURGH,
JOHN DENNIS, Sen.
Brurtfuikk, March 24th.
An Ordinance for securing thepundual
Payment of the Monits due on the
Subscriptions to th; Society for ejia
bl'tfhing Ufefut ManufaCiurts.
WHEREAS doubts have heretofore arisen
with regard to the power of the Society
to annex any penalties to the non-payment of the
instalments, agreeably to the terms of the fub
fcripiions. And whereas the Legifl.nure at their
la(t feflions, palled a supplement to the original
law of incorporation, removing the said doubts,
and fully authorizing the Directors to pass any
ordinance they may think proper, to compel the
pun£lual payment of the said ftibfcriptions.
Sec. t. Be it ordained, there/ore, h the Governor
and Directors of the Society for ejlablijhing Ufefut
Manufactures, Thai if any fubferiber or hisaffigns,
shall neglect to pay the second paymtnt of his,
her, or their refpeftive fubferiptions, together
with the lawful intercfl arising theieon, cither to
the cashier of the United States Bank. Office of
Discount and Deposit, at New-York, the calhier
of the Bank of New-York, the cashier of the
Bank of the United States, in Philadelphia, of
John Bayard, Esq. in the city of New-Brnnf
wick, in the state of New-Jerfcy, on or before
the thirteenth day of April next : That then and
in that cafe, all and every fha.e f.r (hares of such
person or pejfons so neglecting to make such pay
ments as aforrfaid, and the monies by them pie
vioufly paid, (hall be forfeited,.-,nd forever there
after veiled in the said Direftnrs, and their suc
cessors, for the common benefit of the said So
ciety.
See. 2. And be itfurther ordained by the authority
aforefaid, That if any subscriber, or his afligns,
(hall neglefl to pay the third payment of his, her
or their refpefiive fubferiptions, together with
the lawful interest arising thereon, on or before
the thirteenth day of May next. That then and
in that cafe all and every (hare 01 (hares of such
person or perforis so negli fling to make lucli
payments as aforefaid, and the monies by them
previously paid, (hall be forfeited, and forever
thereafter vested in the said Dircftors, and their
fucceflors, for the common benefit of the said
Society.
, Scc / .3- A ' ! <i lc »further ordained by the authority
aforefaid, That if any subscriber, or his afligns,
foali neglect to pay the fourth payment of his,
if r '?r thcirrefpeftive (übfcriptions,on or before
the thirteennth day of July next, that then and in
that cale, all and every ftiare or shares of such
person or per Cons, so neglecting to make such
payments as aforefaid, and the monies bv them
previously paid, (hall be forfeited, and lorcver
thereafter veiled in the said Directors, and Iheir
lucceuort, for the common bencht ot the said
». NICHOLAS LOW, Governor.
Pajjedat hew-Ark, 20th February, 1 700
(Counterfignedj ELISHA BOUDINOT,
„ Secretary pro tempore.
BE IT KNOWN, that the proportion of spe
cie which may be paid on the refpeftive pay
ments of every original fl,are, by such Stock
holders ai prefer paying a moiety of said (hares
in Ipccie, in lieu of deferred debt, is as follows:
On the 13th of April, , 7g3 , wilh in _
lerdl from 10th July. 1793,
On of May, . 793, with ill.
tcrctt from 13th January, >700 , oc
° n s . 8 o
stockholders in the laid Society are hereby
"ed to' ' h3 ' l -' h ' r "brcri l ,e r , an/duly
the cea.fi™ 3 , ' '"Omenta upon
fl ij V res wh,ch lhe V may rcfpec
ednmy offi '"r b °°\ S ° f t,ansf " °P»>-
ed at my office, in From-ilrcet, New-York?
February 21, jjgg
KTKEIF s ° ld byt »* mitor,
A lABLL for receiving and paying Gold —
k aC , C ° rd : ng '° La —Blank M a„r f eft s Z
And Blanks lor (he various Powers r,t At.„
ncceffary in tranfafting BuMm-fs at the T
or Bank of the ,he ufmedState*
Do!s. Cts>
1 63
NICHOLAS LOW,
lawt^M.
DrtT*iet »/P£NjitvLT*!nn,
<P)
Thomas Dofuon, «f the bid Dtftrift k uj''
pofned in th»s "Office rhvTui !
Right whereof '£
w >rd« following, to wit. ™ Ife
" An Inquiry tfo P uni/i f
is nectary in Pcnnhk-tma H,u,/ "*
«' iUujirations. By Wi11,,,,', R Jji "*
" To wh , ch , s sdi( l „„ Z2n?
«• Penitential \ Houf of Philad.til f afld
" \ nUrxor &***g€me,:t th<reoj "'J*
" Lowno, of Philadelphia.—— // J , ''" h
•; ""n't?"/" "J «'*"» LotrZi?"'
'JhaU find,hat they p, KetJ /rom **"»• -
.. »>' *oicr A mlZl
l'tftiments* —— Montefq V
In conform,,, to ,he Ast of , h( . c f
the United Slates, intituled, .. An A&
Encouragement of Learning, bv fecund £
Copies of Maps, Cham „„d Books, to the i
tliors and Proprietors „f s uch c
Times therein mentioned." ' m S4<r
' SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk otthe D.llria of Pennf^j,
vinT*' T o ° b Z* u "" k '' S M '» V"rM.„'t>,
HiUtam Prue Young: Ridmlni, by A f cii J.
C "'" '■ BaUmorc, h J„ !s R ice J N;u
iy Thomas Allen : Bofion, by David We/I.
Morse's Geography
Revised, corrected, and greatly enlaced, L,
additional Ma fs, well engraved.
In a few weeks will be published,
By THOMAS and ANDREWS, Fault-, Souie
No. 45, Newbury.Street, Bolton,
I,i fwf Vtluir.es, Urge 03am.
A NEW Edition of the AMERICAN
hftPa tAPHlf ' : Bein|! ll,e lar P ft
j A y G»ocr Ariry e«er p!L
lilhcd: Or a complete GEOGRAPHY of the
WORLD, brought down to the piefeot tm.e.
I N two parts,
The General Contenti art
PART I. - Ot Aftrotlomy, as conncfttd with,
and introdu&ory to the science of Gtography »
under this head will be gi.en an account of the
several astronomical fyftrms of the World, i«4
a particular dcfcription of the true one. A laWe
of the diatnetcis, periods, &c. of the frvrtal
Planets in the solar system— an account of the
Cdmcts and fixed stars.
OF GiocßAPHy—its use and progreftji.
figure, magnitude and motion of the Earth-*
Doctrine ol ihe Sphere—Geographical citclrs
Divifinns of the Earth into zones ansi climax
—methods of finding the latitude and lengiiude
of places from celellial obfcrvatiom—Globe*,
'nd their use—with a number of the molt use.
ful and entertaining Geographical Problcirsand
Theoiems Mips, and theirufe—fources6fheat
and cold-—theory ofthe winds and tides—length
of miles in different countries—iiainrii divitons
of the Earth— account of the Gregorian or new
stile, See.
America—lts discovery by Columbus
general description of the Continent, in which is
a lengthy discussion of the question, When,
whence, and by whom, was America firft peo
pled ? With a long and entertaining account of
the Indians,ana the late difcoverieson the nortb
weft coafl, &c.—North America—chrono
logical account of its discovery and fettlementa,
its divifirms — Danish America, British
America, IJn ited States of America—
general description of them, including a history
of the late war, and many other ufeful and en
tertaining matters. South America—itsdi*
visions, particular description of its several pro*,
vinces and countries. West India Islands,
See.
*** This part of the work will be illustrated
by maps of the countnes described, from the
corre&eft copies.
PART ll.—Containing every thing elTcntial
which is cohtamed in the best and latest quarto
edition of Guthrie's and other Rritifh Geogra
phies, with felettions from celebrated naviga
tors, travellers and lelpettable authors of other
nations, &c.
Of Eu rope in general—its grand divisions,
particular geographical HeTcrrptions of its fev<i
ral Kingdoms and Republics, See. Of Asia—-
itsfituation, boundaries, general hiflory, parti
cular descriptions of its several divisions, &c.
Of Africa —its general history, boundaries,
grand divisions, &c. Also, new discoveries,
Terra Incognita, Geographical Table, alphabe
tically arranged—Chronological Table of re
markable events, discoveries and inventions, lift
of men of learning and genius, with other ufelul
mifccllany.
*** This part will also he illullrated with
maps of the countries described.
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE Author is sensible that the firft edition
of his American Geography (which makes Part
I. of the above work) was in many instances dc
fe&ive, in others erroneous, and in
five. It has been his endeavour, as it was hi*
desire, in the present edition, to fupplv the defi
ciencies, correal the errors, and meliorate the
offenfivc parts of the last. To aflift him in this
business, he has received many valuable commu
nications from the heads of departments in the
general government, and from gentlemen of re
fpe&ability in the several ftatce. The descrip
tion of foreign countries (which composes Part
11. of the above work) has been carefully com
piled from the most approved writers on Geo- «
graphy, and ufeful information introduced from
the discoveries of the latest Navigators, Travel
lers, and refpe£table authors. Indeed, no pains
nor expenfc have been (pared to render this work
the moll complete, accurate, and ufeful of any
ever offered to the public.
PLANS
OF THE
City of Wafliington,
Sold bv the Booksellexs,
DO&SON, CAREY, \CUNC, & LRURSffAht.