) .\ v
:.:v^...1- ri*l'J: ''
A NATIONAL FAPiR, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS ANTS SATUR
[No. 88 of Vol. IV.]
CONGRESS.
HOl'Sii of REPRESENTATIVES.
FRIDAY EVEN'IN'G, March K
'lui'jta&f of.lite obferwtiini male h \lr. Day;au,it
lite'aeifle.. cm the jf"iVwiug rtjtlptiar, vit..
h E'SQ'tX'Ep, that the- Sccrcraty of the
CV Treal'ury has omitted to diftharge anef
initial duty,of liis ofljce, in failing to give
longre'ft uiSfial imoriuatiop in due jime of
he mhiiies a. awn by hiia from Europe jintp
he United Stats'; ; wl'/ch drawing commenc
ul iii Oeremfeer, 1792, ai'd continued till' ja
-1783, a'nd'oi thfe caufc's of making luth
Irafts.
V(r. Daytbii said, that s& Jo late an hour of
lie was unwilling to detain the coin-
Kitta'a uimeteirarilv'; he t ruffed however that
iliej; w«jiit«l'gi ani him their
:e'iition for a i'e\v moiiwut? before .the vots
vas take a- The reftjjnilbii upon "which the
enle of the comitiltcee v.-a$ aeon' to he ett
>fefftri, contained a direct charge pgajnft the
Secretary' riCthe Tieafu'iy for having; " foil
rd to 4ve Congress official information itj
lac tiras oftfie monies drawn by him from
Europe into the Oniteci State?,; and of the
li'uies of futh drafis." He role princijWllv
:o remarli, that the argtaJnenjs which had
>ejn uied by the advocates of tiiefe refbluti
,u; in fnpport of the firft that had been dif-
Misled, anil particularly by the member frorr
Virginia (Mr. Madifonj were of such a nature
is ntuft, if applied to the one now urcier dc
iate, compel that gentlem'pn to abandon thi
hi g? and give it his negative, jffrewou
jrclerve any fort of consistency between hi
ifguments and his vote.
It had been alTerted by him, and feemeid tc
ie relied upon as an important fact, that the
Secretary's agency in, refp'eft to foreign loans,
3id not neceiTarily result from the duties of
lis ofac?, or the conftitutiou of* the treasury
l;p'artinent which on that head was lent,but
ii it it was founded upon a special commiiiio.n
iod in'ftr udrions given to that ollicer by the
'resident in whom the laws had veiled an au
:hbrity. Under that view then it was dt-em
!&"convenient and'pfroper to regard the Pit
ul.*nt as the 'principal, and the Secretary as
lis agent, in order that there might ap,>car
:6 be (brhe foundation for the charge avStlnft
the*latter, for having acted in any inltance
tvithdut the express inftruftioii o:' the former.
If this was truly the relanonftiip in which the
Secretary itood to the President—if the Pre
sident's commifiion was his authority, and the
Pre fide nt's inftr'uftions, his Jaw and guide—if
the cafe" of loans wail in relpeft! to the treaty:
ry department, an extraordinary and extra
ofEcial one, not neceflarily falling* under the
Head of it, bur dVfrm,CL from t!ie ordinary re
venues which bounded his legal authority, as
htfH hePn'declared by a member from Virgi
nia and another from "Ponnfylvania, Mr.Day
ton called upon thole two gentlemen to ex
plain, with what propriety the Secretary of
tht Treasury could be ceiikited for not com
pnfing in his annual oHwial fiateiaent of* re
ceipts and 't'/Kpenciftures of public monies in
his department, a report, of hjs agency in a
business unconvicted therewith, which he
trahfaft&d not in quality of financier, but of
agent,'and for which' he was reA)onfi
b!& tb the' President, who,was his principal,
ftoiitstlsfs Would, have di"f
innied him from office, if he h.id aaed un
fafthfuHy. There apjieaVed to his mi:..!, A? r.
Dayton v faftfffutffi Vnconltlffiicy andcont/adic
ticjn , reafonipg }j£, had
and the resolution on tne table, as..indued
him fed belie ve thaf all who gave the if aiVent
tor thrift? argufnent-, but especially tho'e who
had and fuffp*>rt«y tHem, would join
votipg-agauift tjiis proportion.
But there were otner reasons, Ms. Dpytop
added, whivh fcemed to his judgment to lead
to the , fajfjte co\tchi(ibn. The
Hc , u /f\ r ' ve ren d y e?sp rent
ed their sense upon thfs fuhjeit. Th-ir. refa
ctions, pJalfiJd'on the 2scT of Jdnujirv without
ev.iddntly ..recognized 'certain
principle .4»^ty.P»iJitated'*gaigft
thoCp:contained.in tj»j| fefqjution. The Prs
-of the "U liiteij States Y a * tljeie reaueil
e<l Vo communicate tliu' in'forinatjon wanted!.
It is well kno<*n to VvSfy member thSt this '
mpflfe'was never a<lop;etf in aitv citor in.
forpiatipn refpfedfcing our fttcal ebneerns, or
othir ptiatters toting bufii^fs
the dewrtmw, .it w?s aljvsysob-,
lervea wnen t..e information wanted was ot
lu£h a r.iitur'e_as to rencici it improper for ei
ther of the : uW»rdinare executive oncers to
jiye. it*without the.order of their head, the
Prefidejtf* Shall the Secretary of-ftxj Xreir
f" r ? t r e " c P\ urct * tor .no( reporting to
t r <-"s tran!a&ions unasked for, w'. ch it is
MthiTted he was not 1 at libeVty to report even
ufW-t&e order of the Houlc, without the
*•' f an<^i<w i apd ekprefs direction of the Preli
cprfuied for not giving n«
°L^e # ironies by.bjnv from
Eur°j^c > ar,d oi t|ie ; cai^s j of
drafts, >Vhcn whitfi
tK« luaji of four teen point ciTt the
t **>*•' »;!,! i;i » : ' ?!.* Vi i
4 ;■
cabfe, the pqrppfcs. and de&gnate
tbeiwioroppimori' j* ■)'{}: of the . A»th "*
Aiijift dire £i»i tlx; application of two nrilfir
oris to tire jwvn£r«>of' the piiolic debt. Was
not this' country the only proper pluce for
tliat operation! And woijtii any miff Ay that
could be wade. stfvaptaggwuf-
Iv for»t.be United Stages unjefs tlie money, was
drawn here ? Was there not a djfcretionary
,p<Swer given to the executive over the -otter
twelve niiilio'tisAitined to tlie payment of
our deb: ta-Franc?, iii virtue of which fuctl
IWtinn of.ii itiigiit be dr.awavhete,, as might
deemed confident wi§h the public good ?.
Had not events fjjlly t ijj>(ii}U;f] Cougrets in liav
ing gjaiitfd that dilcrctionary power, and
the executive ii\ the ule they had made of it ?
THrongH the inflrumenta'ity of drafts
. we bad been enabled to purcbafe nearly twd
millions of our ,ow(i,debt, and to pay in (bis
in, produce)
abpqt a iniilion of; iMtn<;h aebt, by
which the Colony of St. Domingo had been
relieved fioin its annthe govern
ment' and jieapte of France highly gratified
ailti benefited. Far. £uom meriting censure
for ajvafijfcntent* fpprqwfen? aad.te' efit i^l,
tjie man who- bad «%&ed theni was, Mr.Day
ten",«ifert*dl entitled the coiiinie'ndatioii
and thanks mint countrymen, yhit the Se
cretary haddifisTiftrfeecl biith nil ordinarjy and
j extraordinary duties with ability aiid integri
l ty, had been dejiltd by. nbne, —that
! lie (ijtd ast of Ajie 4th of An
{ gi(li f an<l,dfparted if* true fj»srjt, had
1 been urged ancf (imported bv very few, but
1 that the which lit; made, had *
! prove'd beneficial to France, arid highly favor.
|j a|x'c to the intetefts of the Uiilted States,
j fceraed to admitted by aHj even by
> thi.* who had questioned the
legality pfjthem., .
Mr. D.iyton'concltided *. Ith faying' that, he
was hapjo'y to find he flioii d he wjth a very
large majority of the Houlc, in the v'ote that
tl»;,SttTetaVv i,\iias not .changeable with the
, qfliijf.oij.and failive which the refoiution aim
! cd upon him.
j Mr. _£in<Jlety—lf re r peftijig tl:e
j government have not been equally elevated
" with tiiofe of the gentleman from Maflaihu
j fogs [Kir. Ame')' neifjier are ,jny a'ppre+en
> (ions so much deprefled with fears. Bu® I
> hype I ain {he liability and
; pr.if|>erity of. the, government j,.pJid though
: we ditle'r in opinion on this qucltion, yet I am
| firmly ptrruaded, that tfie'part I take, is the
; belt calculated, tq promote the ueceffary con-
Cjlenqe afld lecure the virtue
'. of it s,adilyn (ftratio,ij. As the gentleman, ip
an elegant discourse, has explained no diffi- I
culties, nor adduced arty proofs in Support
of his opinions, Twill only add, that I believe
the government to lie' so welleftablilhed, and
fd. aiuf by. (be citijpn«,.as wit.to, ba j
eudan;> ved by the Houie of j
exaininiiic, how the laws have .heen ojjeyed
in tae application of public money, and giving
tbetr opinion upon the"result of that exami
nation
That tbe Secretary ha« not reported fully
to. thjs Hoafa in due ti:ue, is !'o much, within
th^knpwledgeof,e.yery t member, thai; it, is.
impoflShle to doubt ot' the truth of the fact,
however we may differ about the propriety of,
the conduct. To go no farther bafck than hfft
lelfion, besides the references to the Secrcta
ry, to;ueport uponithe ways and means, and
infoi tae House ,\vUat re venues we>e , pe
cejfary, op yii 3qth.,«f February, #
{landing oider was relblved, directing, that
he Iboald report, unto the House, within a
few days after tlie meeting of the uixt feP
fion, an uaurttt and occ&Ui.t 'tf the rt
ctfpis ant txpnditutfi of ql/.1/it. finite monicj, in.
whick /hall bt itJUngutflicd the expenditures
fall under eacl head of appropriation, avd that in it
fhfllthe jkeun the fums,ij any which remain unex~
- f-endedy &c. . .... , ;
Were not the monies drawn upon loan,
public minies, and were not those loanVappro
pnatt d? Undoubtedly they were ftriitly so :.
-it is aftrange evasion to fav, that by theft
expregions only, the curreut revenue is in»
tended. . Arguments rnufl be, fcarxe when
ttyjj oecoiues necelTary. It requires no refu
tation.
Oil the 9*h of Janliurv I ast, he was called
upoiv to Aiy befoi e tke flonfe fmh informalicii with
icfptft to the Jinaiicis of. ibi United States, as ujMJ
the (,c£/U;tire t» whetl.tr any or what
; additional upenuts i4'itibc ncccjjary. ■ i "tf
In coiifegjieiice of the recommenilations o|
thePrelident, anil the ui/jies ol'this Hou e to
commence the dilchatgc of the redeemaolr
h part of the funded debt, a-retercjice v.*as
iiade to the requiring him te re
'.pqrt a for,the application of the public
• money for that purpose. The ,House being
| affnred by the gentleman whomvivecj tte le
■lolutioii, that no new tax was'Lnended or
i neceflary. But the Secretary, so far from iri
' the House, how rancii money he had
I'utjeft to his discretion in the bank, in notes,
&c. proposed a new and partial tax, as the
foundation ps a new system of loans.
\Vbaa the memcraiJ.e bijl, fqr to wtborUe
' ar.Lthcr luar. el 2,Q0-,~0- ol dollars, was be
• j
' •" |
349
Vi/ E^NESOAVj
■fiyjboWHifp, No. ,3:P»M-aC^.^'i4;
V - •
April 3, 1793. [Whole No. 4? o.j
- V- V IT, ■ . • ' --r
fdre the lion ft' a few week: ag<\ we were
W?!<M>y g&otlemen on this floor, that' there
was-tfot time fjr argument■that the Mil
;v.u(L be pf»(Ted in three or fnuv days. &r.— *
and when we wanted i'll format ion, we were
told by fonle of the friends of the bill, that it j
was i»ot convenient to give information there
—that we might procure information else
where, as they had done. I confefs I d'ei not
comprehend this method of legislating p. but
ihe Secretary has since cxpl uned ir in one ,ol
lis reports, by comply Mug of the Hoqfe, be
laufe the members did not 30 to his oifice,
;nd aUc intormatio.n, instead of requiring ir
1 be publi&l? reported. v."
Even when this favorite bill for a nev
yan war, before thp House, the Secretary di<
lot condescend to inform us, that he hid
/ithout authority;* |> ovitled nearly a inillioi
md a hiilf of dollars for that porpofc < H\
lid not-inform us how obligingly he ha<
Irawn bills upon our bankers in Holland, Cl
iave the money put in our way.
Thus, in order to anticipate the payment
due to the bank W did. what he coald, to in
duce Congress to break the public iaitb, b>
repealing the exifti-ng app'opriation, r.md
for feeurrog the discharge of a debt of jufiici
and gratitude to the French nation. Fron
this, and other instances, it appears, that how
ever high the Secretary's regard for publh
credit may be, there are other coniideration_
•which have obtained a higher degree oi his at
tention, than obedience to the laws. Tin
gentleman from Virginia (Mr. Madison) ha:
so tlevrlv explained the nature of rhnt <>fci ei
tion with which the Secretary is vested, anc
(b fully proved that there was i) 0 u
jutlify a departure from the appropriations
made by law, that it is not neceflary ,f<sr m<
to explain further on that head. , However,
I cannot help remarking, that the discretion
ary powers were pretty freely exerciied.—-
Tie drawing of bills began early, indeed*-
and .we re. continued to a recent period : The
times of drawing fortunately correfpondec!
with the necelfities of the bank, and the pow
er ofeiiiployiwg agents wa': pretty freely used".
The fame agents were frequently both the
fellers and the purci(afer* of the bills. Per
haps this was nece&uy : Nodoribt if%ks coiJ
ven lent i Probably it wasjafe ; but who can
fay, »t will be always so ?
I have not fnid To muctf to prove the truth
of the«,iaQs in the refolutfon j fpr,
, .of this, there: can be'.no Joubp it js as cfijr
as the fun fliimng in <}n^-ligjlit, But* inordef
to 'prove the propriety of this comuii.ttee e.v
[ pre fling its of a condud so unc
juftifiable, tb&t infornuition waswithheld uji-
evident* fr<jin
I cu/fion—that itwa* obtained withidijfficiulty,
| i? evidepj, iVqiti i[,e numerous applicatioi|j
we were obliged to make in order to obtain it.
|..... i - :i | ——
On tiie tytiff U) refer Mr. Giles's tefgfutions\rtlfaff
ing |.(jtepjficifl coruiudofthe Secretary of tie Frta.
Jury, Mr. Murray made thejt How fug obfc'rvati6>is.
He said he was op'pofed to the referrenfce
of the refolutious to the committee ot the
whole. He bad, as far as the time permitted,
examined the ieveral reports on which the
examination depended-, and was then ready
to vote on them—though be, copfcflgj from
the intricacy inherent in fucii ft
%s well .as .from the vast variety cf
the detail iavuUxd, he-had. not, bad -foSicient;
I time for a complete ii) ve/iigat ipn~Nor did h £
imagine that any man who had not previously
uiedjtate<i .on the fubjsct sos a length of
and .made choice of his ground of atttickj
could fa.v he was completely'-matter of the
fubse<Sbr-*Siimc vote, was.now ren
dered etfential to the ehara&er not only of
government, but of the gentleman who pre
sided over the finances of the country. But
three days were left for this enquiry, and to„
finifii a gretf deal of other business—and he
i thought that dilpatch which was u iial in the
House, ought to .lie used in preference to the
indulgence whrch a committee afforded—As
to the abitraft proportions, if it were necef-.
i fary now to go into them, he thought it woyld
Ibe proper to decide on them fir ft. He tlio't
•it m?it logical to .'ay down p; jntiplcs of rea
soning before faifts were d« v e jo_ped—W erf
! they agreed to by the House, it would be un
] der .proviiipns and reftriaions—They could
not have the implicit force of axiom?, tout at
{ moll muil lie .yielded to as wholefomemaxims,
tfye application eCvbich cwft be frequently
modified by, a cectain degree of diforetion.
"With relpeftto all the other resolutions, he
imagined they would on examination be found
to be unwarranted by fafls. He hoped the
movers and supporters of the refofotions
would not be gratified at so late a season, bj
the Houle in resolving irfrf) into a committee
of the whole—Tlietnode in which tbey were
brought forward-did'not entitle tfiem to mucTi
confidence- He Paid a more unhandsome pro
ceeding he had nevtr seen.ii! Cijngref;—-It hud
been a pra&ice derived frwn the lights of
common liberty, common ri>ht and the firft
principles ofjuftiee, that whoever was charg.
cd with a violation of taw on wbicb a pumfii-
rucftt. «(>£»«A, foui* lanih of ar»
t'weriog tu tbe tharg«—ll in a, retent in
W- v-V •. " • ■. ■■ ■■■
jw'w *j l * r M.3&!? r *
YufiUj
wfe -
■. tK#-too»$ •*
'"I 1 "
: tfbintedto examfii?—ttie pp.ip
colar}/ ct>3«/iu?dj*'ißs,- be u^rftocdslv.it• ~•
' its cqrtinvi)t|.(.*e
«>e*filo*ni >wL 'if, HSV
matiotv—Though th« Secretary ut..
not th*-itafr) jutf>?e,
*jd ttwvmti-ift op^w^pfJaciPtss
of jurifprudance jo.wlgdkj.we atte'.nprejl to
hum forae « a alogy,' <krniS?TOel} t#a t lie ftluuld
betea»#/oijiewtere—-3»<J t!i<toi}itett,f; was
. <Ju#rfeii nsl
tjtlY©*! a retij «<»l*vl>e;(*ii jjji > t.!>»
ViW'Simjtttft# fr »<N«I
■,:
l tt* «w* fitotfwj taftjf umi«r - an - set
iJnrtfcnibijfef'ti rrWitt Krd?t*,':tVaM& tri*tbe
eiHWiihsd,rfjht«!'il" citUcinftip,; («<wli~;eaoh
.WWJH^stbi v
fepuy.^Hts» r gir;flUittyi: t^%^jtp,,f'dcft
they jTp/Jflent '«l't',#. |M''«i :t-s-
Hot- sa'-'nil# cKii'je
xnns-gbrte 1 into,' MelVrit V^'i >+*
Ulcedi—Every ruh ojf'jtitior,- M»d«t(tt«T dt-
ItCHMsjr ff» ; aWM-.Wf. P«<»-
&s^->vS l
BiSdlb.?; e V WX>'i « c
fbvW»rtf,iioif'foi , t«iQ\iiry'!»(jl
if by WmSjwit?^oJ<tHc
■taibf f»ltatc*d by (tf.iti*S <if<Jw
bjg^fft ( ofi<*;iis:. Vk vtfc*
f f f
■ W'ftWß.Sf^
fWiitioas/in«ae'fljSent ,«F<rnnvury»lrVvas Hie
partiaJ'irrQ fftnoicH
isgfttiW 'of-Str&'kf
tipii Jitigftl isifc
t*l«f <WWlfc
- t«lWtt^rj r !v:v,e r prectdv
; tlig Hjufb would'.hot ret'er tv -f'^^jji-
more d^u&tvli.
.T i*.r t »lv tV.' a
: S i * » • ■*
kV *' H
For the GAZETTEof tU, USin-.U iiAfEv
GERXAJN lefo'ujtiyns niovetl in the Ifjjif
!a uie of Georgia have
papers, tfjcpfeHtng tiieir opinion on .the oucfFl*
ofi> *» whether a Ifr.te piay be fueel rn the-.Sti
ptomfe Judicihi-Chtfi t of Hie- United S* .fto 1
T?b«y rejetl tJte with no fcaijilicjfr
&ufl. regions,, tbay Jaiy in,!«fc.
(lance, ifthcy be made liable by ,Jup
course Of law to pay their debts, it would be
a-mofl grievous wrortg 'and injtiry. 11 \riAftfl
create a perpetual bni then of taxes' in adciil 1
tion to such as they hare to bear by the ihV
jyftice; of funding system. Admitting the
horrid wrong of being compelled to pay their
debts to be a clipping of the plumes, ol th? im r
pefia! Sovereignty, it is not a clear point that
a.quefttoin- in-the'law courts HrcirW bej in
ftrkft propriety; decjitd by the legiflatjne nf
Georgia. The office of judges, and legifl itoi-s
feenvs to be jilended. In another suit Geor
gia (Tpiamtiffi Will,the (late plaufe to. rej
fbjve how that suit lUal) be decide.'; ? Ye;
rheV'tilink it proper r<i lend their refo'ittionS
to the judges of the Supreme Court. IstWH
done- to over awe, or to convince tkc.m I
Those who afe so atVpijJ of being encrwehtd
upon, should not eijcroacl.—They might hay <}
relied,on the law and conftitutipn, If they
wfiffe is they Tappofed —and,if they were Hot
rightlyuriderftt>od,'the court would not be
helped by their assistance. ■
While tljey fear the iova.'ion of their peqih
liar province wjth so much forcmel's jej
loufv, It became them surely to un
touched the exclusive. authority of Congtefs.
It seems they adopted a different opinion.
For th*y have gone out of' their way to c-ilt
the- funding fyfteni hadjia tries. It w.ouid tp;
pear a« indecent at least, and perl)aps,'4s.4ar,«>
1 gerous to the foyereignty of ,the people of
the United States for the legillature oi'a State
to discuss the mei its of the acts of Congteft
1 and-to p&rscenfij>es on them, as for a law
! court 10 interpret the Conl,Htution according
j' to it* legal feiife—of which they are the pfo
' per judge 3- The i'oveiejguty of the whole
j people of the uni in feeuis to be as sac; ed „,
the Sovereignty ofpeorgla. Tiiey tell us in
• deed that for them to be I'uid is icpiignatrt fu
; the fmattcfl idea of Sovereignty. perhaps it iV
meanttLat the Smaller,the ideaolrfoveje'igiftyi
the'more must be made ol'it, and >hv mow: tl y
greater mutf give and yield to, the tefc.
So much for tbc decency of this ir.trufion us
| their cenfufe on the funding , SyHem. Kcw
[just is it ? Precilily as just as it is decent/
j When they Speak of the t»jufiiu of the
I fyftaiu they certainly intend thq*.
j fuffei s wrongby it. Who is it that
: wrong ? Is it intended to atiirm that tU ivr
tificate holders receive Hji ibun tli&fTi;',ht
TKis can not be luppvfcc! ta be tfceii cuutep
<■' f
V
9ficn of the cttter—for riiey (jptaV of tfee in
j uttice of the funding TyAcm crcatmg a bur
den of taxes, Which implies that the Uijuftice
or wrobgconllftt in the pile's p*f mg too
much»»ju»* thin the credits have * title
to receive. . But the tegifljjture of Cjjcrfia
know ftom pttlteis wV> ffiaLinpt the
»i te .idtpair
their ct«BWwith was apr»-
digioei«tß»in^' Ju tfce terms of funding the
debt-— thai fa* ujg of yiilliops they pro
posed iagi ve to the late anny and to the ori
ginal certilicafe Holders. ' The irj-jftifc iif
tlie funding /jQem Ijcs therefore, aciCrding
to the .their own pariy, in,
not girfn* Mkgljf it. .bard to iae
hew f;kving-i*u*r«a« the in ,to
make the fuixlipg system more j'uff, cSifd
have made the burden aftaxesleiV. .
What would tlie Sovereignty of GJ&frgla
Cty, ihotihfCorgrrt! tt*ad it; th*Uojtir#ep:-—'
ftould the SenatearHuufe ofßepreientat°ver
of the United States draw iri'fA question and
condemn the 'dainjs if the' Legislature of
Gcorgia—pfoclaim to their qititens tlie.. in- <
jnftice *nd tadjiolicy of itetr afls, and as
far as vntss wilfjjo excite aflpoffblc aversion
and rcfiltance to the execution of their toys.
We'have a great many blinking politicians
who fee tife d'Ahger of eiicroachntents onTy on
the juriftfitfio'iv nf tae StaVjs —tli.it is their
blind fide, loir av ill not fee the LlHurpa'iun
of a State* on Uie 'ftmftirtirt of the Nutional
authority.
To the Prinfer of the Gazette of the
United Stales.
I HAVE feeo, in your lafl paper,
the copy of a com million which
the Secretary of the VVeftern Go
vernment endeavored to intpofe on
the Judges of one of the county
coom there. The style of this ex
traordinary commiHion exhibits fea
tures so novel ; it is fwoln with
such affeitation of pomp, and struts
on luch stately stilts, that indeed,
Mr. Printer, f could hardly believe
(any evidence in your Gazette to the
contrary notwithstanding) that the
production 111 question was really
jimerican. Rubbing well my eyes,
however, and carefully wiping the
glafles of my fpertacles—for 1 wear
fpedacles, Mr. Printer—l next pro
ceeded to adjust them to my nose in
the molt exaift, approved, and criti
cal manner—when lo ! in rulhed on
myTsti'nd the fable of the frog and
the ox: an involuntary fit of laugh
ter ensued, that has continued ever
since, a«'d for Which I humbly be
seech the " honorable" Secietary's
ta&jr%Firrh*: pardon.
n "FrarHA-j-iiAi
Philalelfhta, dprit 1, 1793-
fSOM- A.V-EAATM'JA PAP£R.
T5 SEATED Micjtations have
JL\- dr?> w n to the press the fpjlow
ing fe of a feimon, delivered
before the President'of the Uni
ted States, during his Eastern Tour,
ftpon the importance of educating
ybuth for public benefadlors : from
Genesis, xviii, 19. " J know him,
" that he •mill his children
" and hit hsuflhold after him, and
" they Jhall keep the way of the Lird,
"to do jtifiice and judgment." .
" And to what theme my beloved
brethren, could I with so much pro
priety have turned our attention,
as this, this morning. At a timt,
when the great political Father,
and Chief liuler of these States has
honored us with bis presence, and
awoke a genera! Jubilee, and spread
a new joy, through a large trart of
country. He will pardon my bold
ness ; when 1 fay, that in him we
fee all tbefe virtues which I have
now described. Me hath set a pat
tern far youth,, not of the present
day only,- but for those who shall
come Rl'ier him, until time (hall be
no longer.
" He, after devoted to the
service of mankind, hath, at the
unanimous call of millions, under
took the arduous talk of fettrng the
wheels of government in motion,
and awoke our finking country to
sensations, which (he had not.
known for a long peri.od.
Then virtue reared her head,
then vice retreated—lndnftry rouf
«d. The sire-os pa.i iotifm, burst
into a- rrew ftawe. Alt ranks ..of fiif
ferersaiul mouivneis, under the de
folnliofi of pall years, began to jyipe
away, tlieir fori <>ws. ,
" May his days be long and hap
py—frvi" virtues imitated—his ser
vices rewarded, by the pleasing re
flections which arise front Jiavjng
served his generation faithfully.
By the will of Ged_by theapplaufe
of Angels and reward of Heaven.
FPOM THE (BOSTON} MERCURY.
|7 AME, who is ever lijlevhg takh delight 16 Ik
A mt/hjluou! Lyre of Phi Lin! A, tuu Mikkun
assiduous itt circulating the information, that tkijfar. i
voritt is now compofng a Poem, of the Epic
nature, inwhich will be delineated font as the mo ft
Jiriking features of the devolution U this country.—
From the greatness and brilliancy of the fuhjeti, t' trl •
Critic may anticipate the plea fin* of beholding -a
iVirormn Scion engrafted on theJltlk of Columbian
genius; and the Champions of freedom, from the .
exalted reputation of '.his fair writer, may exult in
an exemption Jrom the fate of Alixandbr, who
wept, that he had not a Homer, to perpetuate his
glorious atchievrwente. The Pbtm, we hear, is in- '
titled, " BEACON HILL." As the mop vto. \
mevtous scenes in the Drama of the American war,
(a far the curtain of cben hofli/ity had been drawniy I
the genius of Liberty ) are embosomed in the vrfthfe
horizon if this eminence; fn commanding <l Jptft
could not pafi unnoticed by so penetrating an ive,iwr
unimmortalized by fn elegant a pen. This natural
observatory is also peculiarly favorable to ■ the plea
furcs of perfpeflive. Here may the vifualJcijf'feafl
6n the mofl piQutcfyue views, which our county ex."
hibits. Here may the wing of imagination rove un
con fined, over an exhaiijllcfs field of the mofl roman
tic realities. Here may the. republican bosom
glow with grateful pride, while on one' hand ht hears
the lufy din of the commercial and mechanic arts ;
and on other, beholds the back ground of the fidure
fvperbly ornamented with Nature's rvojl'profit five
luxuriance. Cctte&ed in one beautiful group* we here
behold the various andflour if king departments of this
T lfi n g Empire.
But while from this elevation the Jenfes are re
galed by such flattering projptfts, the heights of
Char left own, or the more diflant plains of Lexington,
orrefl the attention, and the gay feene is changed.—
The memoty of departed Heroes, who fealei the chart
of Independence wish their blood, invefls the mind in
tributary contemplation ; while the tear of regret fills
the eye with gloomy gratitude.
Blest he the task, along the ftre&rrldf Fndne, *
To waft (he-Patriot's and the Hero'j name !
Bleftbe the Muse, whose foft Orphean breath
Rccals the ; r memories frqm the realms of death!
And blest Phi lenia, noblest of the choir,
Whose hallowed hands attune. Columbia's, lyre,
'Tis thine to bid the deathless Laurel bloom,
And (hade .departed Virtue's sacred tomb;
While pruned by thee, its loftier branches grow,
And yield new honors to the dust below !
•Tis thine, like J»Jhua t Sun of GLORY
stand !
And gild the urn of Freedom's martyr 1 d band I
While in thy long, with charms illustrious,
shine
Gods, fhap'd like men, and men, like Gods,
divine! '
Hail, lofty Beacon, hill of Freedom, hail!
Thy torch her Herald to the diftant'vale'
What various scenes, from thy commanding
height,
Th' horizon paint—the turning eye delight!
Loud Oce.in here, with undulating roar,
Calls daring foul* to worlds unknown before.;
While Fancy's wanton child,
Char les curls along, irregular and wild ;
Mere, Commerce, dtck'd the wings
Time,
Cnwts »he *leet breeze, and ranges every cjijne £
There the gay villains its loftv head.
The social mnnfion, arid the humbler (bed. . ,
But nobfer honors to ttiy Fame belong.
And owe their splendor to Ph*.linia's fang.
Beacon (hall live the thqne of future lays ;
Phil en i a bids—.obsequious fame obeys.
Beacon shall live, embalm'd in verse fublim£,
The new PARNASSUS of a nobler
clime.
No more the fount of HfcHcon shall boast
Its peerless waters, or its suitor-host ;
Tq thee (hall every fabled muse afpiie,
And learn new music from Phi lent a's lyre.
No more the fiyingJleed the bard (hall bear
Through the wild regions of poetic air !
On nobler gales of verse his wings (hall rife,
While Beacon's Eagle wafts him thro' the Ikies..
'Tis hero Phi l enia's muse begins her flight,
As Heav'n elate, extensive as the light;;
Here, like this bird of Jov j, (he mounts, the
wind,
And leaves the clouds of vulgar bards behind.
Her tuneful notes, in tones melifluous flo*r,
Wjth charms'more various than thecolor'd bow,
Heref-fbfilv Tweet herTtquid meaftinfrplaf, ' '*
And mildest zephyrs gently sigh away ; • •'.;
There, towering numbers stalk, majestic rife,/
Like Ocean storm, and lighten like the (kies.
While here, the gay Canary charms our ears,
There, the lorn Philomeldiflblves in tears,
Whik here,the deep, grave verse (low loiters on,
There* the blythc lines in fwift meanders run.
Thus to each theme responds her echoing lay ;
Bold, without raflwefs; without trifling\ gay ;
Serene, yet nervous ; edfy, ytifuhlime\
With modulation's unaffected chime;
Softy without zveaknefs ; without fhrenzy y zvarm ;
The varying [hade of Nature's varying form \
Let fouls, elated by the pomp of praise,
Ttye arch triumphal, or the bufto ratfe, t - <ii
Bijfl marble, issuing into life, proclaim
Their bubble great ness in the ear of Fime !
Gay trifles, piftur'd out on Glory*sjhotir,
Which Time's firft rifmg billoiv leaves n9 more !
'Tis thine Phi leni a, loveliest muse, to raise
A firmer monument of nobler praise !
Thou (halt survive, when Time (hall whelm the
buft,
And lav the pyramids of Fame in dust.
Unfoil'd bv veais, lhall thy pathetic verse
Mdt-MtMOH y'k eyeupoa the Patriot's htfsrfc":
And While each d'ftant age and clime admire
The funeral honors of thy (.pic lyre,
.' Wfeat Hero's bofjm would not wilh to bleed, . .
' That you might fag, and raptur'd ages read ? >
•'T3I the-la ft page of NAturE's volume blaze,
-'Shill live the tablet graven with tfrv lay# !
; HALIFAX, (N.C.) March 13
The following is a complete re
turn of the gentlemen chofenatthe
late election Reprel'entatives to Gon
grefs, in the refpecftive diftrirts :
No. r—Col. Joseph M'Dowell.
350
No. 2—Gen. Matthew \,oc.Y.
No. 3 —Col. Joseph Winfton.
No. 4 —Gen. Alexander Mebane.
No. s—Nathaniel5 —Nathaniel Macon, Esq.
No. 6—Col. William Gillefpie.
No. 7 —William Barry Grove,Efq.
No. B—William J. Dawfon, Esq.
No. 9 —Col. Thomas Blount.
No. io—Col. Benjamin Williams.
Philadelphia, April 3.
A mnft atrocious murder was com
mitted on board the ship Wasp, of
Brrftol, Robert Jones, matter, on or
about the 20th January last—laid
(hip arrived in Montego-Bay, Ja
maica, ontheeveningof thatday.—
The person murdered was Thomas
Hedges, the surgeon of the/hip. Jt
appears from the depositions taken,
that she failed from Bristol to
Africa for il*ves, and arrived after
wards at Jamaica with a cargo of
200. That designs against the sur
geon's life .were entertained from
the beginning—and after a series of
ill nfage, be was dispatched the day
previous to the arrival of the ship,
with circumstances of savage bar
barity.
The villainy appears to have been
perpetrated by a number of the peo
ple belonging to the ship, with the
connivance of the Captain. The
fliip lay in Montego-Bay 34 days,
and has ftnce failed Cor Bristol—the
morder wasnot di(covered till after
/he had failed. Meafares have been
taken by the authority at Jamaica
to bring the perpetrators to justice.
The fl»ip is i'4t tons ineafttrement,
painted black* figure head, copper
bottom, Guinea-man's round-house,
and had some caronades mounted,
and it is supposed will not go to
Brillol, though cleared for that
place.—Robert Jones, the Captain,
is a young man, about J feet 4 or j
inches high, and only 20 years of
age.—Joseph Nees, the fleward,
light tawny complexion, about 5
feet 9 inches high.—Thomas Beddo,
the boy, is a thin lad, his hair sup
posed to be light, tho' he always
wore a handkerchief over it, 5 feet
; inches in heightb, pock-fretten.—
Jack, a yellow negro, of a very (lout
make, and spoke a good deal of Eng
lish.
The above described persons are
represented as the atftive and pafTive
initmmentsin the aforefaid murder.
One of the Paris Gazettes (Patii
ote b'ranctis) among other remarks
on a certain American publication,
makes the following ;
" There is now translated into
French a book entitled the Federalifl,
or a collection of pieces in of
the constitution, propoftd for the
United States of America, by the
Convention of 1787, publiflied in
New-York, by Meffieors Hamilton,
Madifan and Jay, citizens of the
United States. The bookseller, Ba
ijfon, has done France great service,
especially in her present circum
stances, in publilhing this work
which is clearly the best the world
has hitherto seen on the fubjecft of
confederate government. It mult
be confeffed, however, that in foine
places, there are passages, taken in
certain views, wherein we may re
mark an ariftocratical tendency ;
but in general the political maxims
are excellent."
Extrafi of a letter from Columbia,
IVijlern Territory, to a gentleman
in this city.
" As young as this place is, there
is a remarkable third and tafte.for
learning in it. We have already
an Academy here, nnder tlic joint
care of two men of abilities, in
which the English, Latin, and Greek
languages, the Mathematics, and
various branches of the Arts and
Sciences are taught. Perhaps yon
will think it incredible, when I af
faire you that in this academy, at
the aforefaid different branches of
learning, there are already sixty
scholars. There is another Latin
and Greek School at Cincinnati,/fix
miles below this Thus does the
Wildernef? begin to blossom as a
Rose." '
MFNANDER.
T ie gent'emen are elected Repre
fiMirative- so lervtf iu the next ot'tHe
Ur ifc S' . f-i:-. tlw 'fi-at'e of Virginia—
W'' i i
t Richard
y New, ifraneis Walker,
JoknPa e e » •"
i,^v CO L7 fpon<leDt in ******* fa.
J r^.^ r -, that tlie late bulk .-!!
about the Secretary of the Treafurv wirh w
sign as foine fnppofe, to put his reputation m
jeopardy, has bten !o far accomplilhed. th»
at fcaft ''r , d n' ?,r ' Uat P»" «f tit Union
at least «f falling under tbe curse dcn^rKtd
againll him waom every o»e (peaks w*l) 0 f
Zeal in a party cause often betrays w ut o .
judgment, and that even in me s »c ftiou'd
others tile least fulpea-.V.r p,„ (l , ot w jj
the journals of Congrels exbibufalUv.dcic.-,
Ertrael of*lettt,f, m Marylj.d.
I can allure ymi, that tiie de'iear of thof„
relolutioot refp«etin a the Secretary, n,s b , '
rejoiced at—at to wh.Jeioaie ui,«
being no morbid tendency in tius put „t t , s
United States there was n'otfiing to'hcaj w
to cure—but I doubt not it will b„ve a i
tendency all over the country, jes.iou.y rtm>
a weak lentiment, is a proof of J o v._ a jj rai
confidence in government is e#enti»l ( 0 ,|, e
peace and prolparitV of the union—doubts of
{lability will produce a want of t6it confide nce
in fiicli as do not think for thcmlelvei- and-a
panic is as deadly in government as in an ar
my.—A continuation of g .od morsl pol:Ms
will work tlie most falutaiyedec'ts tbroa 'iiout
the States.
Sxtrafl oj a letter from a. genti.man on a tou, t»
the Southern States, dated reterjiun, 20i i
Alarch.
" I arrived hete shortly after the news of
the late attack oil Mr. Hamilton had reached
this, and am very glad to find it has upenei
the eyes of many who have hitherto btcn un
der the implicit direction of certain aot'ld it
umpires of the United States in Cungrel',.
One of the reports, which I find circulated
to the prejudice of this gentlemaji is, that ne
has not done lb much as be ought toajlilt cer.
t4irt needy men in their claims for services
which they declare they performed ilnrjijw tbe
I late war, and Which they beli«ve he "lulu
ailjft them to obtain, ifhe pleafrd—l gave luci
anfwer as I thought Uu: and latlstaftorv—
and am happy to find that the unjust prejudt
ces againll this industrious patriot aie d»-
creasing daily—lb are all tiiole unfortunate
irtifuncierftandings and mifreprefentatious
which have tended to four the minds of ma
ny, refpefiing anealtern and foutbern interest.
« I have lately been on tie ground-de
signed for the retidence of Congress after the
year 1800—anddq afl'ure you 1 never beheld
in one place so many cprrefponding beauties—
in point of situation, of convenience for com
merce,and of every excellence which could be
expected from nature. I hope time willjf.
ford a completion in every requisite that art
can bestow—and that it will, as it isthe last, ,
be the firft city in the universe. The only
objections which I have heard to jhis situation
for the government, are certain local preju
dices and a tincture of antifWeralifm in fniite
people of the vicinity. Maryland is one of
the mo ft fecUi a] States in the union, and Vir r
ginia'is fact mending her manners, tr. thispar. -
ticular—So that the last of thele ohjefliom
will soon be removed, and for the other, tjme ' .
and net?flity<mH&efle<!t a dire. Butasinat
rers are,ths politics of your government wear
a much more urfavorable afpeft than thole of
this state, and I with they may, opt eventually
disturb our peace and unity.
In ffiort, I am so much pfeaftd with the
new city, that I have determined one day to
fix on the spot—and Aral! be happy to fee you
my neighbor. The public works are progreC.
sing 35 they ought, not with that degree of ra
pidly that r _ined Port Kofeway, and which
injured Baltimore about 5 or 6 years ago,
(from which however flie has since recovered)
but in a sober-minded manner, worthy of the
prudence and spirit of the Commissioners.—
These gentlemen are pad the time oflifefor
balloon, or whimfica! experiments—for whict
however they are daily incurring the censures
of certain light-headed neighbors,-particularly
among the land-holders. These men finding
their lands have risen about 1000 per cent. 1
are now angry that thay do not rife to ten
times this value, and are da'vlv growing more
and more fit for a lunatic hospital, which I
have in cotvecjuence recoynrnended as the firft
of the buildings to be erected in the city."
The Bakers of Philadelphia and
Bolton Imve petitioned the Legisla
tures of Pennfylvaniaand Maflachu
fetts refpe<fti*ely, for a repeal of the
law regulating the price and assize
of bread.
The Petition of the Bakers in Boson
contains theJo/Jntuing hrft-trical Jkttch.
" IN Gr<?r-Britain, the Bakers
are and have been, for more than
400 years, an incorporated compa
ny, possessing exclusive privileges ;
and authorized to restrain, by limi
tations ai\d reftri<Sions of various
forts, the competition to a finaller
number, th-an might otherwise go
into this bufineft—which is attend
ed with the fame confequenoes as a
monopoly, though in a less degree.
To counterbalance the evilsofthefe
incorporations, this law was produc
ed—a law in its nature and opera
tion contrary to-the true principle'
of trade, which leave indtjftry and
talents free to attain their utmost
reward ; milling for a supply- 10
the effetfts of a liberal competition,
which always hath, and ever w "
Kring to market, the produtSs o
human Utill, ai such rates as placethe exertions of all the citizens on
a just and true level. It ought not
to be omitted, that'the wisest and
uioft celebrated writers in England,
constantly and publicly aflert that,
where there is no excluiive corpo
ration, the competition will regu
late the price, much better than any
aliize—among many fatfts which are
adduced in fuppori of their opinion,
the following is cited, viz.—The
method of lix'tng theaflize of bread,
eltablifhed in the reign of George,
11. could not be put in practice in
Scotland, oil account of a defect in
the law. its execution depending
upon the office of Clerk of the mar
ket which does not cxiit there—
fbis defect was not removed nntil
the reign of George HI. the want of
an afiize, as is declared by an emi
nent Scotch writer, occasioned no
fenfire inconvenience, and tlieeita
blilhment of one in a few places,
•where it has yet taken place, has
produced i>o i'ciitiWe advantage—
in the greater part of the towns of
Scotland, however, there is an in
corporation of Bakers who claiin
exehvfive privileges. InMafiachufews
there is no incorporation of Bakers
thev enjoy no exdulive privile
ges they poflefs no authority to
rertrain or limit their number—or
to combine, in ariv banner, for the
purpose of raifuigthc price of their
labor, or the profits of-ibeir (lock—
The only apology, then, for fucli a
law in Kngland; happily for its ci
tizens, does not exist in America.
This Jaw enforced in a few
towns only—and the citizens im
media ely injured by its operations,
are filial I in number, compared to
the re It of fqcieiy, who, though er
rdijeouily, may fancy themselves
gainers by its existence—to this fup
poted ft If iiiierelt of a majority of
the conf.iiunity we mnft impute the
continuant-is of a Itafute wliich yet re
mains a blot in the hittory of Ame
rican jit; ifprudence.
It'is not generally known (hat
Diiiiiounpr Ji.fil |p <be earlier part
ef his life diiluigui(hM h.imieif as
a captain of infantry. In a celt
braced engagement ne was left tor
dead -on the field of battle. Incon-
Ifequtn'ce'oF-ifl health, be was per
muted to transfer his ferviees to a
civil line. His return frmira diplo
matic to a military capacity, has
been diftinguilhed with his former
spirit and iiddrcfs. The victory at Ja
mappe may be attributed to bis coil
dud. He fought with his bayonet
in the milks. Like Marlhal Saxe,
he threw bis'flrafF in the middle us
the enemy: Knbwing the nature
of his troops, he placed them 50
deep, so that the fit It racks, prelled
forward ft em behind, found it im
pofiible To retreat. I houf inds were
cut to pieces, but the frelh fucceilion
of ranks rendered them at lalt irre
liftabie. Gen. Adv.
On Friday the Senate of this
Commonwealth had under their
confideralion the hill' lent from the
HotrteTof trepiefciHaiives for alter
ing and amending the incorporation
laws of Philadelphia—the principal
of which is, to veil the judiciary,
legiflatiye and executive powers,
exercised by the corporation, in dif- I
ferent bodies. —A motion was made
by Mr. Morris to pojtpone the firft
feiftion, for the purpose of introduc
ing a fubititute, the purport of
which was, to let the prel'ent mayor
and aldermen retain their powers
during the citne for which they were
elected into otlice. This motion
for pottponetuent,after tome debate,
was parried ii* the affirmative, io.to
7, as follow :
Ayes—Meilis. Coats, Edie, Hogs,
Hanna, Jenks, Morris, Sellers,
Schroyler, Scott and Thomas—iq.
—Mefl'rs. Brown, Heiil.er,
Montgomery, Moore, Smiley, Smith
and Kennedy, 7.
The fnbltitute was then under
confidera.iou and agreed to ; fpme
other amendments were proposed by
Mr, Morris, particularly a claule
for altering the corporation, so as
to alliotilate it.:o the conftitntion of
the Ignited States, by dividing it
into two branches. This was de
bated, and finally agreed to, viz.
T hat there lhall a common
council and a triennial council.
Tlx following is copied from a Si. Euflotm
paper of March 8.
PARTICULARS
■ • of the
' EXECUTION of LOUIS, XVI.
[Extfafied from a French Paper, January »!.]
ON Sunday niglu he visited ins family
for the last time, and after (pending some
time with them he returned 10 his own a
partmerri and i'upped as utual ; he ilept
tolerably well that night, and arose about
7 o clock on Monday morning, when af
ter some time fpeat in private devotion
with his confefTor, he informed the officer
he was ready ; the carriage being fewt for,
he, with his eonfeifor appointed to attend
him, went inland proceeded to the place
of execution, guarded by a party ot the
national guards; when they arrived there
lie ascended the fcafrold with great firm
nefs; ej soon as he got up, the execittipn
er cut off his hair, at which he ihewed
some emotion, but soon recovering him
felf, he advanced to the front of the fcaf
fold, where he addrelled the populace in
the following mannei
Frenchmen,
I die innocent; it is from tlie fcafftili
n t'ne pvefence of Almighty God I tel
roil so. I forgive my enemies and hope—
Here a confuftd cry of Grace, Gnu:?
A'as heard from the people around tin
fcaffold ; on which he was flopped aiK
fevered from his body at one (Iroke ; the
executioner carried it twice round the
fcaffold, and then,.with th£ body, it wa:
thrown into a bufket and conveyed to
withfoiiie quick-Hme in it.
The blood which flo-.ved from Louis
XVI. was gathered up, by fotti<" in paper,
and by others in white handkerchiefs, and
this was done by persons who had not the
air of attaching a political superstition to
it—Two young men of good appcarance
were particularly noticed ; one of them
who was a foveignir, and had the appear
ance of an Engiifhman, gave 15 livresto
a child and requested it to steep a very
ot blood that remained—the other young
man seemed to have much at heart the ob
jnd fonfte of the haii of Louis, for which
he D»id a louis d'or.
members, 737 of whom were preferit at
jpon its being put to the vote whether he
[y.-threc gave their voices in the affirma
tive ; and of this number was Philipe E
jralite, the ci-devant Duke of Orleans,
The King made three requests to the
national convention after his qondemnati
>n, namely,. Thst he should be allowed a
r igbt of his family for the purpose oftak
ng a final adieu ; that he should be buri
•d in the Cathedral church of Sens, by the
ide of his fathers ; and a respite of his
entence sot three days, in order to pre
aare himfelf for eternity—The fir ft was
rranted —the two latt were rejected.
The following is extracted from the fame paper.
Letter from the Marine M'ni/ler,
iVutten to Citizen Montel, Governor of
St. Lucia.
Paris, Jan. 2, feeondytar
of the Republic.
The Executive Council has learned,
from your dispatches of the 4th and Bth
of October, that you did not join in the
rebellion of Martinique j that, faithful tb
your country, you were ready and willing
to fpUl your blood to-defend it against ty
ranny nr ufuipauot)—and that the brave
foldiert under your command, together
with the inhabitants of St: Lucra, acted
with concotd and tfnattifnity, and were
actuated by the like conduct.
The National Convention have seen
with indignation the excess of those mis-
Creants who (tile themselves the Counter-
Revolutioniiis of the windward iflarids,
have decreed that a powerful force Ihould
be sent to challife the rebels. Ships of
the line, frigates, and transport ships are
ready to put tofea, commanded by Cap
tain Duval; the}' have .on board battali
ons of those brave troops, of those intre
pid volunteers who have banished the Ger
mans from the territoties of the republic,
and who have in one month finally con
quered the Belgic provinces. They burn
with impatient deflre to suppress the re
bellion, and not with ftatjding the celerity
of the pieparationj they complain of tho
tardiness of the execution. To prevent
351
delays, several rewforeemcnts are to fuc
cttd them &ich the utmost dispatch, ac
conpanied»,if necefiary (i with avengers to
the unfortunate: patriots.
The nation, always iuil and fevere—t
great and magnanimous, does not wffli
to confound the innocent with the guilty,
norljo (hut the door to repentance. Cle
mency speaks in their favour, and civil
commissaries will be sent out with thd
troops to endeavour to obtain by metk
nefs that which must be ultimately infur-
Ed by her inviucible arms; —but if they
are misled ,by ill-advisers, unhappy will
be the lot of those who will dare to con-
tend with the national power. The
Fitniih, people have {hook. * throne, they
hare made king 6 tremble, and they are
determined to annihilate all mal-contents.
Inform the inhabitants of St. Lucia
from the executive council ; teltify to
them their fatisfs&ion at the fentimenta
they have manifefted ; atTure them that
they will receive the necessary afliftance
which the exigency of their situation re
quires, and that the nation will ever re
gard with attention her faithful fubjetts.
I request you will make the contents of
t his as public as poflible.
( Signed)
Some remarks have lately appear
ed in the papers refpe<fting (he pre
ference given in certain public ap
paitit merits to foreigners. A writer
under the signature of /fa//?//, who
hqte fe.v.ared--the public with vari
olic (peculations during the courl'e
of the past winter, undertakes to
defend the policy of such appoint
ments,. in an eflay which appeared
nor long since in the federal Ga
zette The following is an extratfl
from a publication in the General
Advertiser of yesterday in answer
to Ruflell :
" Would Ruflell present his pro- j
pei ty to a stranger in preference
to a filler or a brother I If merit
was to decide the donation, perhaps
he might meet with an equal if not
aluperior degree of merit in a stran
ger, why then will he not give it
to, the moil deserving ? Our coun*
trly is our common parent, and in
the distribution of its benefits kin-
I di;ed are to be considered before
adieus. It is to be. hoped that ge
nius, information, and virtue are
not quite so rare, that with foreign
n\anufaftures, we must be obliged
toi import foreigners to govern our
country! Hitherto our progress _in
the one is unequal to European im
provement, I have the pride of
country so much about me as to sup
pose, that in the other we are not
exceeded by any nation upon earth.
COMMU-RI(£ATK>NS.
The man who has a great deal of
money wishes to get nnre. Accord
ingly we fee men who have enough,
rilk all to gee more, which they do
not want, and would not, if they
had it, know what to do with it. Oi
teh by their running imprudent
rifts they We all. The human mind
wHI not (land still. A people rich
in liberty are very apt if they can
not have more,to wif'h for something
different. Having all, they cannoc
incre .fe their stock, but they would
change it. Many are fond of trying
new things, and in this temper pre
cious old ones are often flung away.
It is not true to affirm, that oppres
sion only, will excite a desire for
change. It is in the nature of man,
and the friett nation may be made
to figii for new schemes of politics
with all the ardor of fuffering free-
men,
Those who sow jealousies and dif
.ord in the union have the address
to hold up the allurements of new
theories, as fpccious in argument, as
they would prove pernicious in the
trial. Liberty is certainly one of
the gifts to man ; it is hu
ftaie of perfection.—But like his
state in paradise it is i'urrotinded
with temptation. The serpent is
every where tempting the people
to pludk the fair frnit.—Thofe who
tempt, would be the firft to revile
and tortnent them in their fallen
itate. May the Liberty of America
which has not yielded to fufferiug
and danger, eUape the arts of those
ttllaffins who flatter to destroy—who
would pull down government nn.
■tier the pretext of gaining more H
berty to a nation already has-»
all. •
Our felf fuffici'ent political refor
mers condemn the Ipeculative lyl
tems of finance apt} batiks and all
tne myltenes of money traiii'iic'liona
as well as of the cabinet.
would expect 10 fiiul tliel'e loveisvt
plainness and fiinpticiry—.thefeil¥»t»
•ter-of-fatft-men who nate fine fpuit
reafoaings, the very dupes of their
own-vifioiis and crack-brained tpc
cnlations ! Yet so it is—our new
lights, our inspired refoimei3 dH
dain to be guided by theiigiit of
experitence, or to adapt their poli
tics to the nature of man. To fnp
pofe that man has palfinns and ap
petites, and that the good of all
may require that each should be
put under some check, is ariftocra
tic—ir is usurpation.—They would
build their work on prefeut fury
and euthnfiafm. They would very
properly found their Babel on a
quagmire. Trace the theory of our
fault-tinders and mark its inconlift
encies. They hate banks, yet they
always favor the making more.—
They hate fine spun theories, yet all
their schemes are repugnant to na
ture and expeiience. They sup
pose men. devils as soon as they gee
into office, and yet they aff'ciU a pu
rity in t heir theory of government,
that angels would scarcely prove
able to carry iuto effe#.: They, are
confident and uniform in one obje.dt
only, and that is to fay -<»nd do any
thing to make the government of
the union detelted.
Mongne.
Exlrit(i of a letter Jrem the Wtft-jiard.
" 1 know not whether the ap
pearances of reform in England
and Scotland are to be- conlidered
as favorable to liberty. I should
have liked better to find Mr. Fife
continue in the pride of his power
till the people thenifelves burlt their
(hackles. I fear if the reform is to
come from government it v.ill be
like the amendments of the federal
conflitution—a tub to the whale.—
It may be otherwise, and will doubt -
less be a more peaceable way, but
it is dill building; on it bad founda
tion.
" T like the spirit from wljich the
pf-efent fafhionable address of Ci
tizen proceeds ; but, like a new cut
in cloaihs, I cannot help thinking
there is a little affectation in it —
This feeling a little time will re
move, especially as the appellation
is of an endearing nature —I flionld
like better to have the name only.
As you know fafhions take feme
time to arrive here from the me
tropolis, I mud take a little time to
reconcile myfelf to it ; and get o
thers here to keep me in countf
nance. For this once yon will there
fore excuse me, and not think me
an aristocrat if on the outfida I re
tain the former appellation. But
here 1 (hall fubferibe myfelf,
My dear Fellow-Citizen,
Most sincerely yours."
Mail.
Israel Smith, Esq. is re-fcle<?Ved a reprefebtsL- •
tive in Congress from the state of Vermont.
A New-York paper fays,the King and court
of Great-Britain have put on mourning for
the death of Louis XVI.
ARRIVED at the PORTo/PHILADFI.PHIA.
Ship Ann, Torrii, Honduras
Brig Isabella and Ann, Haripton, St.Euftafia
Hannah,
Sch'r Nancy,
Farnhara,
Sloop Dove,
Abby,
Alfred^
6 per Cents, . . 18/j
3 per Cth», ,
Deferred, 11J3
Full (hart! Bank U. S. * 15 per ccni. prcm
WHEREAS a BRIDGE is to be built over
Raritan River, at the city of Nt w-Brunf.
wick, in the state of New-Jerfcy—-to accomplish
which, will require the ferviee o* many carp<?u
ters and masons of experience ; Notice is there
fore hereby given, that any pet Toft or persons in
clining to undertake the whole, or auy part there
of, by applying to the fubferibers, on or before
the firft day of May next, may have an oppoitu
nity of conirading for the famr.
JOHN BAYARD.
JACOB HARDENBURGH,
JOHN DENNIS, Sat.
Brunfwick, Msrch't±ih. efviv
SHIP NEWS.
Port-au-Prince
Richmond
Carmel,
Block,
Th< mas, Virginia
Merchant, Newburyport
Eanies, Boston
Shuhan, Hifpaniola
PHILADELPHIA.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
ADVERTISEMENT.1
By rmniAs jokmoN, djvjd
STUART,& DANIEL CARROLL,
Efjuircs,
Commission ers appoin'ed by Government to
prepare ihe Public iJujldiogr, &c. within the
City of IVaJhi/igton, 'lor ihe rfcccptioh ot Con
fcrefs, and lor iheti permanent r«?hdence afcr
iht-year 1800—
A LOTTERY
TOR THE IMHtoVKMI N I OITTHE
Federal City.
Tickers »t 7 dollar's, are dollars.
LIST OF PRIZtS., »iz.
1 Superb Hotel, with bailie, ) ■'» iwww
«>u; houies, &c.&c.io.o6it)
l C .'ifh Pi tie
1 ditto
l ditto
1 diuo
2 ditto
jo ditto
20 ditto
100 ditto
2ot> ditto
400 ditto
1,000 ditto
15,000 ditto
5,000 arc
j,OOO
50b
ico
5°
*5
20
10
*6,737 Prists
33,263 31aaVs
50,006
By thisfehcrfte dt lecrfl the amount of th£ tick
et s will return to the foitunate adventurers,• 2fnd
yet the federal City will gain its objett thereby,
ia a magnificent building defined both for pub
lic and private convenience.
Although feme eXpenee mutt necefT^rHy-at
tend/the conducting of the lottery, (which ex
pence * ill be taken from the principal prize] the
Commifiioners having agfeed to present in re
turn a fufacientr quantity of excellent free-ft one,
together with the best adapted lots for the hotel
and for the out-houfes, the value of. the lottery
entire may be fairly rated ?Hsre than
par: In this important inftancc it will be found,
on exartiln'afrdu, to excced all tKc lotteries that
have ever been offered to tKfc Public in thrs or
perhaps in any Other eoumxy. The keys of the
Hotel, when compleat, will'be delivered to'the I
fortunate pc{Te{£or of the ticket drawtraagaiuft
its number. — All the other prizes will be paid, ,
without dedu3ion,ih one monthafter the drazuutg, by
the City at WaPnington, oV at such
Bank or Banks as may be hereafter announced,
for theconveniencyof the fortunate adventurers.
The drawing .will commence on Monday the
9th 1 of Septcihbdi ne'xt, at thte City of Waftiing
ori.
Tickets may be had of" Col. Wm. Dickens, City
tTreafurer of Washington ; Thayer & Bartlet, of
Charleston, South-Carolina ; Gidton Dcnifov., Sa
vannah; Me/frs. James WeJl'&Co. Baltimore;
Mr. Peter Gil man, Boft'otf; a"hd at fu'ch other'
places as will be hereafter pubtilhed.
N. B. ONII HUNDRED DOLLARS wifi
be given for; thfc best Plan of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL,or INN, wiih hot and cold
Bat hi, Stables, and oibcr out houses, if presented
on or before ilic \6th of April next ; ari'd a pra
fercnee will btf giv< n to the A'rrift for a C6ri
tra&, provided he be duly qualified to
compltat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out Houses arc to be erected, will
be'a cortier rorof'aboiit qb' by*2oo feet, with a
back avdniie to the IkafcJe.v &fc. S££titfrfs a'rtd
eftimatcs of the expenle will be cxpt&ed
with the elevations, &c, compleat j aud 50,00®
dollars must be regarded by the Architect as the
utmost limit in the cxpinfe intruded tor tVis
puTpofe. S. BLODGET,
Agent for the affahs ofthfe City .
March 6, 1793.
City of Washington.
JxSwWr'Y 7th, 1793.
ANUMB£k offcotS in this Ciiy will be of
fered tor fate at ab&iori, by the Cothhtifl.
iiouerQ, on the 17th day of September itext:'-'-
One fourth part ot the purchase money is to be
paid down, the refiduc at three equal annual pay
ments with yearly iutcreft'oh the whole princi
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, ClerA to the Com'rs.
Extrait of an Ast of the General AfTemMy df
Maryland, concerning the Territory of Co-
Jumbia. ?nd the City ot Washington.
44 Be it ena&cd, That any Jurcigner may by
died or wHfi hitcUfttr lo'ttc made, take and hold lands
within that part of theJaid Ttrritofy which lies with
in this State, in the fame man fret as if he was a citi
*zen of this State ; and the Jiimt lands may be con
veyed by him, and traxfinitted to a fid be inherited by
his heirs or relations, as ij hcefnd they were citizens
of thti Stat* : Proved,, That no' foreignirjhall,
in virtue hereof, be entitled to any further or other
privilege of * citizen.'*
Jan. 19, (f
TO BE SOLD,
A noted covering Horse,
OF THE HUNTING BR <iE D.
HE was imported from England
ber,. fe « eifle *Vli fa ffti r AT 1 j ncT etgh'iy-fix, and
jaJj 1 "' ieh ytar* old ;heis a bright baVj liMiti a
flrft handsonc inch high, is
a of bone and his
a*«*&!Sls >ny fcirfe. »it"Xi/eiT
9pp*<*c&Hi}t4%tk* tfrfc w Siate
wKere htr has wfctrct) an.V^s ßeclined
kte pui-fhafe informt herr.felvefr.--*. ■ Erwfeire -
oflbjti^ ntc u - r «_ - ', >
..... *
,' . . v -'-
"\-T(I|PI6B <slut t+ic ComV
IV fSJWirtfrs appSr^W^fi^.ttcjjS/d'' $fc
Traftee» ftf the ttniswhf «#
wi) 1 -attend • aVtbstiw si, 6f: I? BiHsSfeSiifh', ira' (lie
48th,
piupolc o*' 'V; fr Din !«ch fce;--
foai-a« may be fro-un<4ci.t4Hr:Wc jiu:lri
iaft>bl tht "• . '•.» •' ' ',
* ISEDERICK HARGE?3H' tkiffijaff.''"
AuOrdinay.ee for fearing it': uapunCA |
PcifiriiAt (J tfic Mi'tiitl due on lie I
Sircfcript'ions lo tit Society for eth- !
bltfbing Vfefu! Mettiufdtt ures.
WHfcKKAS doubts luvc heretolore arisen
wuh Trgard lo the powrr ot the Society
to anm x any ocnwitii s to iL- non-payment ot the
ii Itninicnts, ?£ r rtat»ly to -.ne terms <«f the &il>-
Jcr/pffnns. Ard whereas the Lfg'&ture at their
'< ®on«s piffle! a fupplemrnt to the original
latroi incoipyiarum, removing the said doums,
andfuU}' authorizingihe Ducftorj to pass any
ordinance they may think proper, to compel tke
piirifiufrl payment of the Wfd fotlfcriptions.
Sec. i Be it flrdatifkd, therefore, hi the Governor
ard Directors oj • the. $Kttty for ejlablijhirg IJfcjvt
Ma.nuJaClurei % l hat ii any (übfpriber or his .»Uigns,
thai)'iicgJelfito pay the leconcf paym nt of his,
her, dr their refp<Sive fuHfcnptions, together
wkW the l» w fol iotettft arifittg thereon, fittifv 10
th. cashier of the United Slater Bank Qftce o(
Difcouhr and D>pofit,at New-York, the c«;{hicr
of the Bank of NVV-Yor k/ lite of ih<
liank of the United States, in Philadelphia, ol
John Bayard, ,fcfq. in tin city ot New-Brunl
wick, in the state of New-Jcrtcy. on or be orc
the th.rteenth day of Apul next : That then -tnr:
in thart cafe, all and < very (hate or Chares of'fucti
pet Ton or perforts so lo matte fucn pby
merits as atorefaid, and the monies by them pie
vjouflpaid, shall be forfeited, and forever there
after veiled in the fa id Dirc&ors, and their suc
cessors, for : the cottimcn benefit of the f.Jd So
ciety.
Sec. 2. And be ii jurt/ierordainedly the
uforejaid, That it any I'ubfcribcr, or his afligns
shall ncgledt to pay the third payment of his, he
or theii\rcfp*£iivc sub for iptions, together witl
the lawful inteitil anting thereon, on or bctoi
the thirteenth day ot May next. That then an<
in that cafe all and every {hare or lha'res of fuel
person or pe sons so to make t'uc 1
payments as afore laid, and the monies by then
previously paid, (Hall be aud torevc
thereafter vested in the (aid Dkc&ois, and thci
fiicoeff ,rs, for the common benefit ot the fat<
"•> . ' ** >• ,x i
■ ' • •- 1
?5i c< *> ..
ao,ocA'
■ 14.^0
10,000
165,000
ib,'oo&
tetono l
. 10,000
10,009. .
so,o*a_
iyf,6tid
7 < i* TTiS
Dollars 350,030
See. 3. A'd fie it further ordained by the authority
fort [aid, Tint if any fubferiber, or hu alligip,
11cgleft to pay the fourth payment of his,
»cf,or their fertJemve futifcri ptions, on or'befofe
hi'thirtet'imth of Jli !y next, that tWn and in
hat cafe, ail and every share of'(harts of such
uerfon or person?, so ncgh'Aifrg -lo' make such
payments as afore/aid, and the monies by them
previously paid, (nail be and forever
thereafter velfed tn the foid ITirtflbrS,2nd their
rucceffors, for the common benefit of the laid
Society. NrCHOLAS LOW, Governor.
rajfe'd at h'eiv-Ark % ?o(h februar }, 1 793,
Counlerfigried) EL I$H A b6u DIN OT,
Stfcretm y pro
BE IT KNOWN', that theprbporticxn of
rie which tnay be paid, on the rcfpe&ive pay
ments ef every original (hare, by such Stock
holders as prefer paying a rrinietV of laid (hares
in Ipecie, in lieu of deferred defct, is as follows :
Dolr. its.
On the i£ih of April, 17-93, with in
terest from 13th July, 1792, 7 63
On the 131b of May, 1793, with in
tcrcft fioni 13th January, 7 Bf>
On tfrt 13 hof July, 1793; 8 G9 1
Stock holders in the laid Society are iaere.by
notified, that I, the fubfoiber, am duly autho
rized" to make the requisite indorsement* Upon
th<* certifidales of (hates' which tlicV 'respec
tively hold, and that brfoks of ti an'jfei aVfcpjx.n
ed at my office, in Front-Hreet, N^W-York.
LOW.
lawt^M.
February 21, 1793.
B rBD-St A T i£<Jv
Kesolved,
THAT any pcrfon reading in Euibpc, wiio
ftiajl authorize the Prcfid*ent. Directors and
Company of the Bank of the United States, to
receive annuities, or Interest arising from the
public debt of the United States ot America,
shall from lime to time have authority to diaw
on the laid Prcfident, Diicdlors and Company,
to the aniount of the monies by'thefrt iH'eivfetL
which drafts fliall be paid without dfeduAiori
and tree of exptnee —Or,
The President, Dijcftors and Company, if ret
queflid, will remit the monies by them received
to any pafrtff EtiroJjle, frceol exptnee and" With
out dedu&ii/n, iff Bills of Exchange at their cur
rent value, and at the risk of the pcifoft to whoof
the lame ill aII be remiiied.
&y the President and Directors','
3™ JOHN KEAtt, Ciffiifcy,.:
t • ,■
f R O POSALS
For re-printing a new, entertaining and
inftrufliveWoik, iii titled,
T HE
Errors of Education.
JnJlah'lity of mind impedes §ur road (o ve r f e'c t i ok ;
and youth ;if net dnwiaitd by '£ x a mVI e ;fo
iliaj'irate- tht prelects uj V 1 r't ur, ■ mitt
everjail into hRKOK.
The European edition 1 of this work, printed
101 l year, fells at 12*. the two' volutins, (tnijm
copra, ij any, tt be had at thnlp'ricS /—This Ji Jl
American edition, which lhall be well executed,
on an (.nine new type and fine papfr, will be
delivered to lubfciibers in one volunje of about
42<1 pages iam<), neatly bound, ai n'FrtAkCriwk
e-icli, to I* p»id <in receivihjf- the botjf, wStcli
will to press as Joan as a fufSeieiit Dum
ber of fwfcriptjons aie obtained to defray the
ex'ptnic of the undertaking. „ ,
'»-* ji"- • '■ . — ,f
■ » ke mtivtiatiic
■ V'tyßyft- 45Wj- W<
V.Jwflfi W# Air. Hmr.r.hammer f)\, A'a. 24,
■ ;
h\ MtJJrj. Co. P;intfrs,'Trerrtori ; by the
Sf lfthtet, intaboje
fa JiibfLriplicii facers are l»d*td.
- -ISAAC NEALE]
I' covipiiatJßcj.Qf'this'Gezith num
-B?™'* PwU 'each wtfl ht pnid by the'
, ■ §j 'ihoj&umkfj; '■ 1
BY MRS. ELIZA FARSONS.
352
Vinall's Arithmetic.
THE Secoffd bdition of thii work* *fith im
provements, will speedily be put to press.
The rapid sale ot the hi ft edition*, gfttatjy be
yond the author's moil f«nguine expe&ations,
cncoarages bim to print a second edition. He'
intends to have it printed upon much better pa
per than the former, ana wun a new type.'
Those Booksellers who wifl» to take a num.
ber of copies in (hec.s, are iequefted to apply to
the author for particulars.
* 1000 Copies. .... ,
At a'meeting of the School Committ he, ..
Fcbiuary 1793.
The Committee, appomted to examine 14 The
Preceptor's Alliftam, or Student's Guide," being
a fvftemancal treat ife of Arithmetic, by John
. Vina l j., teacher of the Mat hi ipaticf & Writ
ing, in Borton, reported, that'they haVe aitciMecf
thai si 1 vice, and are'of opinion, that the work
is executed with judgment, and is as weil calcu
lated for the use ol schools, counting houses, and
private families, as any of the fame compass
that has hitherto* been offered to thfe public.'
Voted, Th.it the above reoort be accepted,
and that.Mr.ViN a ll befnrnilhecTwith a copy
of it, whenever he (hall desire it.
Copvot the Records. Attest,
CHARLES BULtfNCH, Sec'ry.
The foliowiog ch'afaclfcf of the above work,
is given in the Review of tht MaJJachufetts Ma
gazine, for Jan. 1793 :
44 This is a very ulefti) WriVk, ahd is no ill
proof of the judgment and industry of the author.
The rules, are laid down with piQprietjj, and
the examples annexed arciu«icient for their il
hjftraiion. One part of the work dcfcives par
ticular commendation. We mc&A th4t which
the author stiles 44 Mercantile Arithmeticlt
occupies a considerable pottion of-hts book, but
not more than its importance will juftify. We
would rcconimcnd to th£ young Arithmetician
to pay a particular attention to this branch.
He will find its principles Well explained. And
should he make himlelf mailer of them, he will
always have reakm to acknowledge his obliga
tion'to 1 the judicious artd laborious author, We
cannot bul congratulate the rifirig generation on
account of the many ufeful **rodu&ipns ivhi£h
have lately appealed ; and in which their inr
provemcnr has been principally confuheo.—
Among those productions we mVifV place this
treanCeof Arithmetic. We should be wanting
'°J U .^' CC t0 l^c author, should we not'aqknow-
that his work is in reality, that which jts
title inr^oHl —The Pr Assistant,
or Stu d'e nt* 's Gt/iut."
fci. 13.
War Department,
January 28, 17QJ3.
TNFORMATION ig hereby given to all tfic
J. military Invalids of the United States., that
the funis to which they arc entitled tor fix
months of ihfcir'riftlual"peinfioii,'fioin the 4th day
of September 1792, and which wiill>ecoiiie <1 ne
on the sth day of Match V7Q33 will be paid on
the said day by the Commifiioners ot the Loans
within the flat 6s refpc&Vvely, um&f the ufiial
Hgulations, viz.
livery application for payment must be ac
companied by the following vouchers :
ift. The certificate given by'the Hate, fpecify
ing that the ptfrfori pdlfelTing the (W is in Idcl
an Invalid, and afcertainuig the sum to Which,
as fitch, he i& annually intitlcd.
2d. An affidavit agreeably to.the following
A. L. Camt before me, one of the Jufliccs
of the county of in the state of and
made oath that he is the fa me A. l£ to whom
th« original certificate in his polTeilion was giv
cif, of wt:irli the/ follbWing is a copy (the cef
tifiifittc given by ihe state trt be recited) Thai
hi kind (regiment, cotpsor vcffclj-st tbe
time he was cfilVpiea, and that he now lefides
in the arid c'oiuiiy qf and has rcfided'
iherf far the lift years, previous to which
he rifided in
In cafe an Invalid should apply for payment
by in attorney', the said attorney, ti-fides the
certificate and bilh'liefore rccitid', tn'uH produce
a special letter Of altolney agieeable to tHc foi-'
lowing form :
• ' !». A; B. of 1 cooh'tyVf Cafe of
do hereby coulhtute jud appoint C. D. of
my lawiul attorney, to receive in my behalf of
my pension lor fix mfinthV, as an Invalid
ol the United Stales, liom the 4th day of Sep
tember 1792, and ending the 4th day of March
>793-
Signed Sealed
in the Prefcnce of
i
Acknowledged bt foie me,
Applications of executors and adminiflratoi j
tnoft be accompanied with evidence oi
their refpefnve nfftces, and affo of the time the
Invalid nenfibn'they may claim".
By ( ommand the Preftfc'itt
ot ti c United States,
H. K NOX, Secretary at War.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 45, Great Dock-ttreet, New-York,
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfel
en tirely to the PURCHASE & SALE 01
SIOCKS on COIVIMTSSIO N, begsleave to of
fer hisfcrvrces to his friends and others, in th
iirtfc ot a St<K.k Broker. Thofc who ple-af
to favor him with their business. tnay depem
upon having it tranfa£ed with the utmost fide
!ity and dispatch.
Orders fV»m PhiUdMpMa, Boflim", or'aK.
other theUn ittrd Stales/will be ftrifll
attended to.
~ ~, „,,LEON'A r'E>'BLEECKE R.
PLANS
OF THE
City of Wafhin^toti,
...... Su I*7 ". le Booksellers}. >.
DOUSON, CARf.Y, YOUNG., (3 CKUKSHAKK.
(my r- -
v -_ y j, t&i*
<X th?V»ied Suit.
Thomai of the f ald Jn'l
potiied in this Office, the Tulr „f 'j t lhdt '
word. following; |t wl , p lo '' ,n vW
A " tyftl tefjtf tie
sjfifp'i'«»«,r A j , '
T/'-'Z'- J- b,-X« ; v '
7« ar/»,rt a in Au.in of ih?C..,%
" Penile, Maty Houje of ?k,Ll r lt{, u .rj'."i
interior Uii,,J
" town,,, j/ PUuJe/phia.-Ll, U ""
,h t y f," Urd fnr v/ :«<
VJ,"««.•«-' »<* Ac* /f f ;*yj
'■ijkmtnls." Mo.ictq, '
In conformity cmh« && .rf ihr rv „
tfce U»itrdSi»t«,iniHM| f <i, .. An AdnL ,!!
Nt Learning, by lf- L „ n ! "
Colics of Map',, ChaVii
thoU and f Jr h Cop^, <W - 1 .r U ;
Times therein menuoi{exi."
„ . .SAMUEI. C.UDWEJi
Ele.kol ihe Dlflria of
Curric : Bjhmtoh, b, JUfa
y nomas Alter!: 80/ ton, by Djiit Ke/I. '
JVforfe's i
****
Jn a lew weeks wilfbe puKifhed,
By THOMAS and ANDREWS, KM-rtuft
No v 45<>■*"! "bury -Street, BoH,m,
( , luo Volumes, targe OQavo
WORLD, brought down to thepiefent LW
The General Contents are—
PAftT 1.-'Ol AllVu'iomy, a. c,n,W o( i with
and Iriiroauftdry'iothe fcn-nci of
undi r thu .head will aii sceciinl »t Vk
ieveril jfttonanycaj fyfr m* of; jbe Work!, «no
a particular defenpuon of theiru. ouc. A uf>!e
of the dia'mete'rs, perils. &c. u s the f>veral
Pianets" 1.1 the solar fyflftrt'-Yi iccou'ttv <jf iKi
Comets and fixed stars.
, 9,1 G 4°°V,\ t H*,7-.4J use and proofs
figure magfiitude and motion of Ae E.rth-
Dtf&ftni of the Sphere— circles *
Div.fioits of *h*Earth•dnw'a.iff clifnifA'
—methods of finding the JatUiidVanff lo,\g (ude
of plates from celeaial bbfmrations—Glohei,
and their use—with a.numberof the iWI use.
tut ants cfA'/ifamihg GAj'gVaph'icil Problems a'rfi
Theorems M■■ps, and their ufe—'fourccsdf
n c a'?;- * 1 ly u I the winds and tiats—length
ol miles in different eounlrus—tlaluiaj divifi»ry
of the Eaith— account of the Gregorian or new
ftil<% Bee.
I. C. A. A. A. S.
■3 *» >r» l#»
Amjrjca —lil difcovfcry by CdldHibettl
general dcfcripticyi of tht Continent, in whlth u
a lengthy difcufiion of the quclhou, VVhcii,
whence, an<J by whom, was Ameiica fi.il peo
pled? With a long and entertaining accouiii'of
the Indians,and the late difcovertes on the no-iti
wc &?• —North America—chrono
logical account of its difcovcty anil fcttlemeiUa,
its d yifions-Danish AmericjL
Am er id a, Un it bD St at is of Ame'r i C* 6 —
general deferipiion thert, Hidudin'£ a MH« »y
war, and" many other ufeful anti en
tertaining matters. South America—ijs'di
vifions, particular description oV Us fcvfiral
viritfci'and couhme*! West India Islands,
&c., ...
***. T!»* of the work will be ilh'ftriied
by the countries described, from the
coire&eft copies.
PART ll.—Containing every thing elfential
which is contained 1 in the bt f ft and laicft qu'drio J
djtion of Guthrie's and other Briiifh G"r«AfrW
phies, with fele&ions from celebrated navtga*
tors, travelers ancl rcfpe&able authors of oihcr
natiptfs, Set.
Of ,£p ropi in general—.its grand di»ifusfts;
pzrticular gcngr.iplr.cdl defenptions of iis Icw-
T-af Kwigdofnt y»id RepufeYico, &•<;.
iis fi'iuatiori, boundaries, general history, p*ul
cujar descriptions of iis several diviliohj, Set,
Of Africa—its general history, bourfdiriei,
grand divisions, Sec. Alfp, new fJiftpyerirsi
Terra Incognita, Geographical
tically arranged I —Chronological TaßJe of re
markable events, dllcoverjes and inventions! lift
of men of learning and genius, with other utelul
mifceiiany. _ ,
%* Tins part will also be iUuftratcd with
maps of the'cbuWi tt-s dVfcribed.
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE Authoi is fenjiblc ifjat the firft'pjditiot
of his American Geography (which makrs Pajt
I.'ol the above work) Was in many mttanfcs jdf
fc£live, in others erroneous, and in fom'coffcn
five. It has been his endeavour, as it was h>s
desire, ijQ the present edition, tp fupplv the defi
ciencies, coircft the errors, and inc)ior?t/r the
offenfive parts of the last. To aflift him in this
bijfinefs', be hai received many
nications from the heads of department in the
goyernment, and from gentlemen of re
fptftability in the several ilatcs. The descrip
tion of foreign couhnics (which compofa Part
11. of the above work) has bren Carefully cbm
piled from the moil approved writets on Geo
graphy, anctufelul information introduced fr6m
the discoveries of the latest Navigators, Travel
lers, and reffj'e&abfe'authors. Indeed, no
nqr expense have been fpared'to fenHe'r this work
the moty complete, accurate, and ufeful of any
ever offered to the publi?. ■' . 4
NKW T E A S.
imperial,hVson&souchong;
Of the very quality,arid lateiV impcytano*
from Cannon, via jN'ew-York, by retail,**
No '9' , c
.Third, tlctw£eh CVefnut and Marxet Streets.
N. B. A Jew liorei oj the ahvc HYS OSferfulr.
i 1 '