t-
• ,A :HAflQi4*>k4*&*> .MJiuSHKft W«ON«SOA¥S AMU. .SATUfcfA
[No l 9 8 of Vol. IV.]
LAWS OF THE UNION:
SHCOND
tjweokass dp tH£ eiwrfio STATES,
A-t THE SECOND SESSION,
Begun and held at the City ot Pk'.ladelphia*
i#.the Stateiof Peunfylvania, on Monday
the fifth of November, one thousand.
seven hundred and ninety-two.
AN ACT providing an annual al
lowance for the Education of
-4fitg4* Wereef.
BE it enatted by the Senate' and House of
Re>prefentatives of the United States oi
America, in Congress afiembled, That the
annual allowance to be made for the educa
tion of Hugh Mercer, son of the late General
Mercer, pufuant to the resolution of the
fbrmer Congress of the dhte of the eighth of
April- one thousand seven hundred and;feveu
ty-feven, (hall oe four hundred dollars from
the time for which he has been last paid until
his be finifhed, or he lhall ar
rive at fh'e age of twenty one years. And
that the Comptroller of tHe Treaty be au
thorized t'o revise and fettle the account of
the said Hugh Mercer for his penfiorr to the
present time ; the balance of whictt, as. also
the annual allowances afbxefaid, as they (hall
become due, lliall be paid to his guardian at
the treasury.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, SprakYf
of th* Haufc a) Reprofentativa*.
JOHN LANGDOK, Present pro
tmporc of tfie&tinQtc*
APPRttVE-D 2, 1793*
OEG.
Pt gfitlerit of tht United States.
L
"AN Atr certain appropH
ttions therfli) mentioned.
Bfeit ifo&tiMt ana House 'bf
Representatives of 'sHe tJnited Stbtits'ot ■
tp Cvvwtfc, ttfleitoWed', That titfre
be appropriated to. the purposes hereinafter
mentioned, to Mi petd Aut of arty monies,
♦Wis AMI 4h*w ; intfi' the Treai'ary <jf the '•
•i?mted.Stite»yl««4ci er«d of fcb« pnefent ye»J,
<|iMt {►iwwdipjjljrfltH fhSi gßtieaflnunports
arid pot Lerftofor* apprt)pjiat«tf, .
ari«t out of the fdr'plui « any us the'duties if
Imjtilt «*» akMpne,-MtUs
the present yeai j-ttie Wft ■ fNli
;idd tiv<M 6)i ty
•M *<nt»w . ' i V-
loti ofgroßfopj-Wity W 6 j
Juiraines* tKereoii, an
silfldlngs, aritf purVhafimj fuflofy Watefmls
%rtiJ tiifWfefiei! Wf (JHfr Sft imn<J IwtfWe ,
HbMltfotKi awl hlfle
«y wigbc <«nts i-i-fot the lalai*i*» of tbe,.o®-
;ter jtof jthe-jaiut, frwo tlw as J#ly£°
ferft day »f <>ne th<wi- -
fin# (ev^rfhundred' aild ninety two'tliau
"Aritf Ifit WiMdfed ?Md ftintty feuf AdlWrs, ifnU
tttrttv: •*>!' Chi Utoty bf vk W
oFthe mint, for th» jr»«r e»e
ttoqfaiA' (eve 6 bmxlr«d ««Ml »:
tjifc ti««JthQuiptnd doH*rs ;—*he aflay-:
if fifteen hundred dollars ; tlte chief collier,
Welv e
WfelV* Wt»h
--i«kl MMrt ttertls, fiv* hundred tfftl-
W*<«*c)u,iitiedeh toi>dred dollarj de
'f y*^r,
. «ne i«jrea J>»i>died »rol ninety th'er>
«imm two tlioufarid si* hun
"-•SnM diifirtcfeft'avfrt'g'tKs iWpdJifes'of
• •WAfei ng* gp t, 'Hfe vtole s
Sta<>c«lor>r«fi
rfent.wid VittfPi>«6den*, feAim nfctpucewlilig,
•ne tboufand four hundred and ninety ■
d»n*fs :-7-ipr d>fcb»i*ip£,th« of Return
IWeTg's lefcal re^refiiitatives
•ffc(Wte>riheKG rtA, 'flrtt fit* otf tdrtr IWb
- the pay, WXi*t»c« »hd
forage due to Winthrop Sargent, jM JlJjßttrt
general to the t-ro«pt late under the coin
■ta»4 |b CWilr, «*ehb)i<ired and
; sn*jr ninp (lallafi, and forty five senfs i—for
Bavin. Dontap Arid Claypoole, for printing
JteWßrftifetTuiwfe'r tfie Affection m a toniiiit|tee
of the United State*, four aftj twn
ty dollars :—lnr tfefVayiiig certain
ef <Ke'Aoife ofße-
and for 'artd *How-
Hir >vitnefl<« atteindiug the late c«n
inittef appointed to enquire into »hf iaHure
•f the expedit on tinder Genera] St. Olair,
tour hundred doHars :—for paving tl»e pririci
std tterk to the Secretary of Ae Senate, for
1»c fiervicet, fVom the fii'ft of Juty tothttdavth
of Nsveiubcrjune thaoftnriievai btwdr<dind
Wednesday, May 8, 1795.
- _.... ♦ ..... , ,
ninety two., on®.hnndred and
days, at three dollars per day, three hundred
and eighty one dollars .—for paying the fame
clerk for his services, for fix months, over
and above His for fner allowance, five 11 grid red
and forty • seven dollars and fifty cents : —for
fixroonthvadditional 'pay to the engrofljng
c;ierk) three hundred and fsxty jfive dollars : —
for extra-fej*vices ps the door-keeper, during
the present fefliou, ninety one dollars <ar.d fif
ty cents --—for defraying.the attend
ing tbe featlhg and printing, the public ac
ta lints, irt ptirfuance of the order o'f rl.e lioute
6f Rfeprefentatives, of the thirti tth of De-
one t'ooofand seven hundred
ninety one, a sum not exceeding eight hu,n- |
dred dollars .—for paying the account of the
truftees<jf vVilmington public gran^nar T fchool
and 'acadjiny, two thousand five hundred and
fifty tiiree dollars, and sixty four cents to
make good so much deficient in the appropri
ation of the year, one thoufapd seven Impdred
and ninety one, for defraying the fxoenfes of
lighthouses, beacons, buoys and.public piers,
a fnm nine hundred and hUy
five dollars and il/.ty lix cents* for K» «.
a lighthouse on Moritok point, a sum not ex
ceetHog twenty dollars :—tor
pleting the JjghtliiOUfe : qn Ba]d-hend,, at the
mouth of Cape. Fear rivet', two thoufm"»d dol
lars :—for tbe.falapies of clerks not exceeding
three, to be employed m the office oPtto* com
millibner of tlie revenue, at the rate ot five
hundred dollars per annum, fifteen l urid.ed,
dollars for defraying the oxoenfe of books
and printing,: incident to the a&s for record
ing the raftering of fliips-or veifels, and en
rolling and Jicenfing veitels employed in the
cbafting tradb, three hundred and* fifty d*>l
lars.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Sjfwfcr
c*j. the Ho'j:■ i'j Kei lejeniutives.
JOHN tAMGDOX, Prefdt'tpro
tempore of the Sci'Utc.
AffKOVEB, MAUCH q, 1793.
G£o„ WASHINGTON,
PrefnUntof the United States.
AN ACT to repeal part of » refo' ,
lutitwi of Crultrreia of thf .
ninth of Anguft, One thousand se
ven hundred and eighty-eight,
refpedHng the Inhabitants of Pott
Satnt Vincent!?.
BE is enaffed by the Senate and Iloufe Of
Repreleutatives of the United States oi j
America ii> Congress aiTembled, Tflat so
much of the lefolution of Congress of the
twenty ninth of Auguff, one thou'and
hundred and eighty eight, as requires the
French add Canadian inhabitants, and other
fettiers at Post Saint Vincents to pay for the
fujrvey of the several tra&s, which they right
fully claimed, and which hud been allotted to
them, according to the lawi and ilfjfges ot
the government, under whjch they had let
tied, be, ar,d hereby is repealed ; And thyt
fiich fbrvc* s thereof, as may have been made,
be paid for by the United States, not exceed
ing the rates hitherto eftablifhcd by C6ngrefs
for making fnrveys.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, ipcief
of ike Htmji of Rtprrfmtdtiveu
JOHN" ABAMS, Vice- Prrftdtnt fifth*
United Stales, avi Prrfdenl oj t\e Senptc,
FEBRUARY 21, 1 Jyfr
GEO. WASHINGTON,
Pre/id nt of the United,Statu.
A Proclamation.
By his Excellency Anthony WayRE,
Efqujre, Mpjor General and Com
mander in Chief of the Legion of the
United States of America.
WHEREAS the Pfcftdept of the JJafad
Stores of America dnominate and by
and with ihe advice and cdirfent of the Senate,
has appointed three comttiiffioners to hold a
treaty with the hoflile Indians at the Lower $Qn
dujky on 01 ahogit the fir ft day of June next, tn
fuing, to endeavour to effect a .permanent peace
wiih those Indians : And whereas it would be
highly improper,that any hofVle attempts (houid
be made aga.intl any ps the India.n towns or set '
tkmpnts, whil ft the afor?faid treaty \i pending.
Ia in therefore ordered by the ?r< fcdent, and
I do, hereby, in Ins riatfie, most (oiemnly forbid
and rrftrain any attempts being made ag-.inft
any ot the Ind'an towns or fettlemems until the
icful.t of t*he treaty is known.
GI-VEN under my hand find deal a! Head-
.Legionville, th'S 2ad day of
April,- in the year of our Lord one thou
sand fevifn hundred and nmcty-fhree,
and in the fevrnucnih year of the Jnde
,pcn<iQncc of the Untied State*.
ANTHONY WAYNE.
By Order of theCotrimander
in diief.
K. Df A. D. C
389
S BY JOHN FEN NO, No. 34, NOfiTHFFIFTH-STREE t PHILADELPHIA
Bj, ths J'atefi Arrivals.
CALCUTTA, (Eaft-lndiesj Aug. ?■
ON Tuelilay the Governor Gene
ral had his fiill levee.; as roi,ght
be expected, it wa9 both numerous
and splendid, each person anxious
to evince his refpell and eltecin for
the noble Lord.,
His Lordship appeared in high
health and fyiiiis, and every one
fliared the conciliating and pijlilhed;
manners, which he extends in his,
own good (tile of affability.
The future levees will be held at
the Government Houfe,onTuef4ays,
as formerly.
MADRAS, September 8.
Tippio is Paid ro be imitaiiitgthe
policy of JolVph 11. in blowing up
and destroying all his fort ificatlpi'.v
throughout his Iti 11 extensive terri
except those of Seringapatam.
A liberal I'ubfcription was opened;
at Calcutta, soon after the news of
the peace, to prefcnt Lord. Corn
wallis with a diamond fiar, George,
loop, &c. but no I'ooner was his
tprdlh'ip acquainted with it, than
he declined rhis honor, and put a
llop to a scheme which had been a
favorite object with the settlement.
COPENHAGEN, Feb. 20.
The following trait of liu manify
does great honor to the mer
chants of rhis city ; as there exists
a Royal ordinance, published rti
1788, amhwrifing the tradesmen to
take tlje children of Jews apjneu
t kC-i, fe»«raf mirchun;.! Tnrre }jc?r
ed a subscription for raising a fund,
the interest of which is to lie appli
ed to the purpose of paying their
apprentice fees, and giving toremi-!
urns to fnch young men as behave
well during their apprenticertiip.
Five hundred rix dollars were fub
fcrfbed in one day to this beneVoleht
inftituqon.
HELVOETSLUYS, March j7.
Capt. A. Ball, of the Cleopatra
frigate, liasjuft landed with Cotn
mifl'ary BrookWatfon. Lord Charles
Fitzroy, of the firrt Regiment of
Guards, and Bentinck, of the Navy,
came over pallengers in her.
PARIS, March rr.
Our fleet in the Mediterranean
has been f» much shattered by the
itprms it encountered, t hat the Ihips
which composed it are returned to
Toulpn without having, in any de
gree »ccomp!ilhed the obje<ft of their
IS.
The last difpaches from general
l)uuioMrier are of the uimoit im
portance. A very I'erious action took
place on the t3tb between liruflels
and Louvaiu, the details of which
will probably be laid before the con
vention to-morrow. Yesterday a
bill was dillributed and posted up
jn different parts of Paris, stating,
that the deputies of the national con
vention and the whole municipality
ought to be maflacred, and that it is
abiolutely necelfary that Krance
should have a king Intelligence
from the interior parts of the coun
try, prove that there is great com
motion among the people through
out every part of rhe republic. The
ino-ft serious ditturbances have been
at Montargis. The dearnefs of bread
and the law for recruiting, were
the preteiices for this commotion.—
Manuel, who reiigned his feat in
the convention, when sentence was
aboiu to be pailed on Louis XVI.
has unfortunately falTen avidlim to
it. This was the platce where he
was born, and he had retired to it
difgofted with rhe violent proceed
ings in t-be convemion. The mob
[Whole No. 420.]
wished to oblige hijn to enrol lys
n.irne asa volunteer. Pie refilled,
and pleaded the ktw which. exainp a
persons.above the age of forty. 1 be
mi,(guided rat>We, iifieitfed at tl»i«
re.fu(a], (tabbed him in a number of
places, and lie expired a/nuHV ttye
molt cruel treatment. The piifon
ers of the temple, fuppprt, with the
gttatelt conltancy and perfeitft ie-
Agnation, all the evijs of their cap
tivity. Notwitbttanding the fog,
end a humid atmosphere, they walk
ed this morning upon the platfonn
of the tower. 7 hey supported thepi
felves upou the battlements, and
fixed theif e.yes upon the amazing
height of t.heir litigation, the afßiift
,i|ig,image of their former gran
deur. iylaria Autoniet e took the
Dauphin in hpr arms, aijJ mpde biin
vifw the prccipice quite cldfe to it.
l'he fc ' qf Kg alii e has fee put for
the a,r,uty of the. Var.; and both he
and his father have quarrelled with
Dunioui ier.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
March 9.
The ft objedt that ft ruck tJ}e
Coavejuion this dny, with i'oine de
gree; of fu,rprize, was to
that- the tribunes wer.e filled, wicji
men only.—There was* nut a tingle
woman. On e)|(j,'jirj;, it was found,
that the iji.eji, had prevejueH the
wai|ien f'roia ejK-er'wg t.be hall.
[Ojie fr.alf of the auditor,* tvad. ££•
nerahv been woiuen.],
Tb-e co,ni>iiiffij)iit';s deputed l;tye
preceding day, to the legions, gaye
an account of (heir njiffion, and ttye
difpo&tion in which tbey found the
—
Th? report <>f the public danger
having e.very, wlier? gone
them, ifeey fo.upd all the city in
flamed with and zeal to dje
fetid their country. A new ai njy
is going to ill'i.ie oiy of Rails ; new
victories are aUout to signalize the
infant republic,
Sotnefeiftious havf. exp-.-eflTed their
anxiety to the fommiHioners, re
fpeetii'g the public tranquility dur
ing the absence of the troops on ilpe
frontiers i and fearing that fuvye
counter revqlmionilts niight again
cpnipite againlt the republic, re
quired thai a Rcvolntianary l iiUu
nal (hoyld be fftri^pd.
On the report which the comniH
fiopers made of (bejr demand, the
convention decVeetj, thqt there (hall
be ertablifhed an extraordinary tri
bunal, to judge without appeal, qpd
without having rerourfp iq the tri
bunal of CaiHtttpn, all (onfpiratqrs
and counter-teyolutionirts.
The mayor at the head of tfie
council general of the commune of
Pari*, appeared at the bar, and con
firmed the report made by the cspi>
miifioners, of the general devotion
of the fe<ftion» to the public cause.
C hautnet added, tha-t foinp letfti
ons were ready tq let out, in a whole
body ; and he required that a war
tax should be imposed upon tha
rich, in order that an immediate
equipment plight be effected, of the
citizens who were going to set out
for the armifs.
Th,uriot alio proposed a war tax,
that would fall only upon the iich,
which was decreed accordingly.
Danton, after declaiming ngainft
the avarice of Hfurers, and inhuma
nity ot creditors,moved that all prU
foners confined for debt, should be
set at liberty, in order that they
niight ma.rch to the afliftance of
their brethren—Decreet}.
A n timber of deputations werere.
ceived from the fetfjon* ; some of
whom demanded a revolutionary
tribunal, to be especially charged
with the trial of the general officers
who were absent from their ports at
Aix-la-Chapellc.fly- Lord .Auckland's difpaLches, it.
appears that the French on the 18th,
attacked the Auftrians at Nerwiud,
near Thirlemont. That they were
repuifed in the centre, and on the
right. That they made (bine iuj
prelfioii on the left wing in the af
ternoon, when Gen. Clairfayt bro't
into adtion 12,000 horse, who de
cided the victory. The French for
some time made good their retreat,
but being at length broke, the Aus
trian cavalry made dreadful havoc
amongst them, and killed between
jfix and seven thaufand.—They con
tinued the slaughter until rhe ap
proach of night, when the courier
was dispatched with the above news,
who reports that the French had
Iflft 34 pieces of cannon.
The exprefsfent to Carlton-houfe
is* finiilar to the above, except that
the loss of the French is slated at
2000 men, and 32 pieces of cannon.
Letters from Bruflels state, that
Pumourier attacked the combined
trmy at 7 o'clock in the morning,
between Tirlent«nt and St."Tron.
the battle was fought with various
success till the afternoon, when the
ardourand intrepidity of the French
troops surmounted every obstacle.—
Valence at their bead,they charged
the left wing of the enemy so furi
oufly, that it was soon broke, and
gave way in every dire<ition. The
purfitit vv«s vigorous for some time,
and great carnage ensued. At that
moment when the combined army
was threatened with a Compleat de
feat, Gen. Clairfayt flanked the
ptfrfuers with an immense body of
horse, and as they had pushed for
wards beyond the protection of the
artillery, they were left exposed to
the superior power of the cavalry.
Gen. Valence alternately retreated,
and advanced till he was killed by"
a musket ball. The contest was ob
stinately maintained, until it was
put an end to by 1 he darkness of the
night, and both fides claimed the
vicftory.
It appears by dispatches which go
vernment have received this rnorn-
by way of Flushing, that the'
victory on the 18th was only a pre-
Jude to 11 ill £'eaxfcr success.
Q« Friday last, the 22d inft. the
Auftrians in spite of manceu
vre of the French to avoid the con
fli<ft, forced (hem to a general acti
on, The battle was bloody, but
the fnccefs of the Audrians was de
cilive—they gained a corttpleat vic
tory ; and to use the words of a
private letter, the French were, li
terally, cut to pieces.
The atfiion took place near Lou
vain -According to rhe government
difparches, the French loft 17,000
inen, in killed, wounded, and pri
soners. Among the latter is Gen.
Valence. Other accounts ftate,that
Gcji. Dumourier only elcaped the
fame fate, by striking oft'the arm of
an Auftriat) foklier who laid hold
of him.
DOVER, March as.
This morning a boat arrived ex
press from Oftend, which brought
an account of a decisive aitioTi hav
ing happened between the Anftri
ans and the French, near St. Tron,
in which the latter have been total
ly defeated, with the loss of 40,000
men, and 30 or 40 pieces of artille
ry ; that Dumourier was wounded ;
and that the French are retiring
from the Netherlands with the ut
inoft precipitation.
All the vellels at Oftend are or
dered to proceed to Dunkirk, and
our crullers are now beating to
windward, to endeavour to inter
cept them.
SHIF NEWS.
AftRIVED at tht PORT oj PHILADELPHIA.
Shrp.tiirminjjhain Packer, Simmon*, It'iftol
Vulc»n, Muir,
Brig Theodofiu.% Like,
Lady Wuliciitotft,
JTliduftiy, lUU,
Ajwfatilr, Hulton,
-THE Captain and Pallcn ers of the Brig
I.ittle Sarah, capturcd by the Frfgate I'Etn
. bu<cnde, rcqueft that Captain Bompaed, and
his Officers, will accept of their Ix*ft thanks
for the polite and civil treatment they expe
rienced while they were pri.oners 011 board
the Frigate.
JOSEPH LOWHEY,
ALEXANDER SUTHERLAND,
KENETH M'LEAN,
CHARLES M'iL&OD.
PUlaJeJpiia, Slay 6, 1793.
Philadelphia, May $.
Further accounts by the Englifi papers
state—That the Duke of IVunfw'.ek has so
violent a reJapfe of his late difo-rder that his
life is despaired of. Orr the firft Mardi the
Prince de. Cobourg took the command of the
Auftrians under General Clairfait and forced
the French lines—on the 2d he drove the
French from Aix-la-Chapelle and Maeftricht
—on the 3d he went to Maeftricht in person
and reinforced that Garrison with 1,60 cx tpen
—on the sth and 6th he-detached a Gevniarr
corps to *tta£k Ruieinonde—this body in'con
junction with the troops under Prince Fre*
derick of B«unfwick took that placed—the
French at the fame time evacuated Fore St.
Michael opposite Venlo—which they had bom
barded many days without effe<ft.~The
Prince de Cobourg also detached a body of
troops under the Arch Duke Charles of Au
ftrja, to difpofiefs the French of Tongres, in
which he succeeded.—The French also eva
cuated St. Tron. Lifege was taken by the
Auftrians the sth. Roberfpierre, Lacroix
and Dantorn. complained of treachery inl the
affair of Aix-.la-Chapell'e—and on a motion
made by.them the Convention decreed .that
Generals Stengel andLanoue ftiouldbe brought
to the bar and their papers sealed up. Thir-
Jemont, Gertruydenberg, Klundert; William- -
ftadt, Doevern, Bruflfels, and Sardinia, it is'
faitf, have been evacuated and (tefet ted by
the French—Breda, by the last accounts, was.,
still in their hands, to which they were lea
king additional fortifications. A letter from
Brulfels, dated 7th March, published in a
French paper fays,— u after ralfing the siege
of Maeftricht, the French formed a body of
men, and therebyput pu effe&uaj ft op.
to the progreQs of the Prince de Cobourg's ar~ -
my." . the French Corpmiflioo
ers", in Belgium, was read in the National
Convention on the 11 th March, which fays,
Our fiiccefles in Hollahd are encreafed, and
thesrcity'of Amsterdam is ready to open her :
gates to.the French army.—The most fpiFited ■
exertions were making at the above period,,
in Paris, to reinforce tlje army—in every
feftion fubferiptions were opened, and those
who Could not serve their country in person,
depOsited on its altars a part of their wealth,
—the National Convention condu<sl with a
firmnefs and intrepidity which impresses the
minds, of all with the dignity of the revolu
tion. * The French AmbalTador left Madrid
the 18th February—a fleet was equipping by
the Swedes at Carlfcroon, the destination of
which is not announced. A Jubilee was to
be celebrated in Sweden in commemora
tion of the introduction of the Chr.iftian
Religion into that country—this jubilee was
to be held at Upfal in March iaft. A Rufiian
fleet is to be shortly sent into the northern
seas. Reports of th-- go- -
vernmentof Sweden prevail at Stockholm—
other accounts fay that the lenient measures
pursued by the regent have calmed the public
miod. The last accounts from the Eaft-ln
dies announce that Trppoo is so humbled that
peace may be for a long time expelled—he
has made another payment of the Seringapa
tara money—and it is supposed the young hos
tages, his sons, will ibon be redeemed —A
great scarcity of provisions prevails in many
parts of India. The late fuccefles of the com
bined armies against France appear to have
excited great agitations in Paris.—M. Petion
was insulted by the populace—and M. Marat
conduced hqine in triumph.—lVt. Eg&lite and
his son the Genera! it is said have both quar
reled with M. Dumourier-— the fame accounts
further (av that there is a great commotion
among tho people throughout every part' of
the republic ; these are imputed to various
causes, the principal appears to be the scarci
ty and high prices of provisions. In Paris,
during the month of January last, there were
no less than one hundred and fifty-five divor
ces ; the marriages at the fame time were
two hundred and thirty-fix only, and the
greater part of these resulted from the divor
ces themselves.
Art unprecedented attachment has been
made by ths kingS attorney genera] of the
sum of one hundred thousand pounds fteiling,
(landing in the bank of England in the name
of MeflVs. Bordieu and Chollet.
The avowed pretext is, that they fufpeft
this sum to belong to che government of
France, and they have filed a billiu chance
ry to make the English house mnfwer to inter
rogatories, upon oath, whether this sum is or
is not the property of the republic.
Tliey juftify the attachment by faying—
The French Teized on Englilh Ihips—they re
taliate by seizing on French money—and the
question will be brought to iiTue by this means
between the two countries. It will be tried
before an Englilh jury.
The society of United Irilhmen h3ve enter
ed into very Tpirited resolutions on the tranf
a&ion relating to the confinement of the Hon,
Simon Butler, and Oliver. Bond.
Twenty-Sight French privateers have
been taken ami carried into England. The
Roman Catholic bill has parted the frifh Par
liament—there was a majority of 40 in the
H.rnie of Lords in favor of extending the
elective Franchise to that denomination.
St. Marks
Si. Thomas
Ucakf, L'fb.'n
Guadeloupe
Capc-Frandois
The pneeo ftf Spain has made an offer of
all her jewel!* to assist in carrying on the war ;
the dukes of Alva and Medina, and the
Marquis de St. Cruz,have offered to raise and
maintain 4">o men e. tb during the war ; the
Gremios of Mid fid, have offered to garrison
and defend the court and royal refideocies.
The governor had adopted a new and better
mode than formerly used, of enlisting volun
teers Vo complete the army, of whom 6200
had been collected in the oeighbourhotrfl of
Madrid 01) the 9th of Feb.
390
Tile Queen of France it is faitl, 15 to be
tried by the new revolutionary tribunal.
Baron Trenck is arrived at Havre-de-Grace-.
The late failures in England are stated to
amount to twelve millions ftei ling. A gene
ral amnesty in favor of the Belgians has been
published by the Emperor of Germany, even
Vandernoot andVanKopen are not exclu
ded from the benefits of it. The Ganges
East-India man, supposed to have been run
afliore near Port L Orient is arrived at Fal>
.mouth. T-he republic of Venice have ac-
Icnowledged the French republic, and decla
red a neutrality on their part in the piefent
Xvar.
v By arrivals at Boston the 2&h ult. foreign in
tteJitgcnce is received to the 27th March—this,
fta -etpt£i to the"Frcnch and Austrian armies,- it
fittviTar to' the European accounts under the
Lrirtdorfyhead in this day's paper, which weie
received at- New.York.. The Boston papers
further (late, that neither Klundert nor the hanks
of the Moerdyk were abandoned by the French
on the 23d of March—that in the general a&ioti
on the* 181 h of March, the French loft 2,200
men; and the Auftrians 1,200; that the former
fought with great bravery, disputed every inch
of the ground,"and took their former station in
.their strong entrenchments on their Iron Moun
tain. 'whrre *he Auftrians were prepaiing to at
tack rbem«; That the second Prince of the
House of Otinge, with a body .of troops, had
marched to block up Breda. That new trou
bles had arisen in Lyons, whence the Municipa
lity had endeavored to drive the Marfeillois.-r-
That Antwerp is reported'to have been evacu
ated byrthe French. . That the Corfican tioops
caufc ot the failure of the Sardinian
expedition ; instead of firing at the enemy, they
fired' at the French ; and that it is expe&ed Cor
ftca be Toon a BritisH colony. That the
French emigrants in Spain and Portugal have
been incorporated in the army and navy. That
the Eiyprefs or RufliS has annulled the treaty of
•tommerce with France, and direfled that no
commodities of any" kind shall be imported
frsir>, or'exportrd into that country. That the
Spaniards had taken two French Eaft-Indiamen.
Tn»t the National Convention have decreed, in
corifequence of the internal commotions, that
infargerits taken with arms in their hands, (hall
be jsut to death within 24 hours ; and that those
taken without arms shall be carried before the
criminal tribunal, and put to death within 24
hours after their condemnation.
It.is too obvious to escape notice, that the
accounts of the several a&ions between the
French and the combined armies, are cori
fttjed and contradictory—the loss of the
Frfnch in 'the affair of the 18 th March, is
iUted-at 23D0, 2200, 7000, Sec. &c.—time
■alone will determine the truth.
At to the important battle of the 22d of
IVJarch, the accounts are involved in great
uncertainty—if not palpable, contradictions—
the reports are of a winged description—and
rurtior appears to be double-tongued on the
'ivceafion—from 7 to 4°»000 are said to have
Aain.i4> the-Freia^b-—*vhile other accounts
4{ite the 1 ofr» pn both fides at 20 r OOO.
Tt is said that three privateers, under
French colours, have been fitted out at
Charleston, S. C. They are small veflels, and
carvy fix guns each.
It is reported that the Britifli merchants in
Charleston, have sent to Jamaica for a con
voy.
The snow George and Peggy, Capt. Beld
ing, captured by the frigate I'Embufcade, is
arrived at New-York.
The brig Morning Star, and cargo, prixe
to the I'Embufcade, have been fold at an&iou
in Charleston, by virtue of a decree patfed
by M. Mangourit, Consul of France to the
States of North-Carolina and Georgia.
From the general complexion of public as.
fairs in England, Scotland and Ireland, as de
lineated" in letters publi/hed in this country,
it appears that those kingdoms are by no
means in a ft&te of internal peace and tran
quility.
The manufacturers are in many places
thrtnvn out of employ in consequence of the
war, and the numerous bankruptcies which
have taken place.
' A spirit of suspicion, jealousy and intole-
MDce, in regard to the difcuflion of political
fubje&s, appears to actuate the government,
in confeqnence of which vexations prosecu
tions are instituted, and numbers of indivi
duals have heen fererely fined, and laid under
heavy bonds, and committed to plril'on—while
others have been outlawed—That tliefe
things will end in troii !e, it does not require
the spirit at prophecy to determine.
A letter from Havre of March 9, quotes
the following prices of American produce:
Tobacco, 8o liv. per ql.'—Rice, 70 liv. per ql.
Exchange on London, lj|.
The (hip Birmingham Packet, Captain
Leefon Simmonds, arrived at Marcus-Honk
last Sunday morning, from Bristol, which Ihe
left the 25th March. In this vefiel came
paflengers, Phineas Bond, Esq. his Britannic
Majesty's Consul-General for the middle and
southern States of America —Mr. William
toHd, of this city, Mr. Groomforidge and
lady, Mrs. and Miss Cotrell, Mr. Kite, Mr.
Cross and family, Mr. Cross, j 1111 and family,
Mr. Lucy, Mr. Savage, Mr. Singer, and Mr.
Neet.
fx troß of a letter from a very rtfptßaile Hntfe in
'• -Lniotiy tUttd nth March, tt a merchant in this
city. ■
" American stock has undergone a mod fcri"
euachange for the woife; 3 per cent* are now
at 40 50, and 6 per cents 88 to 90, and even at
ibefe prices, ruinous as they are, the Tellers are
much more numerous than the buyers—The
principal caufc of this sudden depreciation in
your funds, is the number of failures which have
lately taken place hete cf houses who were Urge
hotdrri of stuck, and of rourfe what they held
came pouting into the maikct/'
The* brig Joiepli, Capt. D'uTmoie, arrived.*s
Bolton the 27th uit. in 35 days from Cadiz—
Capt. Dilfpiore informs, that two French In
diamen who had put into Cadiz, weie detain*
were supposed to be worth 4,000,0 c?
ot li.v res-—-That the crews were committed
to prison, and it was supposed the {hips wou'd
be condemned as legal prizes. Four days be
fore Capt. DiiTmore arrived, he spoke with
Schooner from Virginia, Smith, matter, 14
days out, bound to Boiton, which had on the
night of the 2ld uit been run foul of by a fWp
that carried away her bowsprit at d damaged
her bows.
Accounts from various parts of thr fouHleii
and western frontiers, inform of d'epfedafiors
and murders committed by the Indians—A let
ter from Col. A. Lewis, dated April 9th, to ! 1
excellency Gov. Lee, of Virginia r mention*, lhat
seventeen persons were lately killed 011 the ffor
■tiers ofthat ft ate-—Several others we'e killed on
the Kentucky road, aud a confiderahle number
of horses Itolen.
The Knoxville Gazette, of April 6, &ys, f hr
Chickafaws have oftafftvnoufly determined for
war afjainft the Creeks
M. Gencft and his suite left Charleston the
18th uit. on his way to the feat of the General
Governmenr.
By an arrival at Charleston from Cape Fran
cois, intelligence was received that tranquility
is reftoi ed in Hifpaniola—the blacks have bee«
compleatly quelled.
An account of the Kings, Princes, and States
engaged against the Republic of France, viz.
The King of Great-Britain ; the Empress of
Rurtia ; the Emperor of Germany, as King of
Hungary and Bohemia ; the Archduke of Aus
tria, Brabant, See. &c. the of Meiz,
Treves, and Hanover individually ; the King
of Spain ; the King of Sardinia; the King of
Pruflia ; the States General of Holland, &•: the
Republic of Himburgh ; the Republic of Lu
bec ; the Republic of Bremen; the Prince Bi
shop of Liege : the Duke of Deux Poms; the
Prince ol Hfffft C^ffel ; the Duke of Brunfwick
Lunenbcig.
A combination, which for extent of domini
on, wealth and power, is without example ia
the annals of mankind.
The report of the American Mmifter being
muidcredin Paris, has been conuadi&ed by a
gentleman who amvfd in the {hip Active, from
Hjvre-de-Grace, who dined with him subse
quently to the time mentioned tn the EngWfh
prints, of his death.
Accounts fiotn Monti ea!l of the 15th April,
fay that the mutineers of the 7th regiment,
against their Colonel, Prince Edward, had
been tried, and several found guilty—one of
them was sentenced to be (hot, and several to
be whippecf from four to seven hir dved lashes.
Informations, ex are filed by the At
torney-General of* Ireland against seven Prin
ters, and a considerable number of other per
sons, for libels and seditious publications.
By the 1 ast accounts from Paris, it appears that
attempts to disturb the tranquility of that city
had been partially luccefsful, Infuriettions on
»ccotmt of the apparent f< arcity of bread, and
high pricesof other neceflaries of life, had taken
place, and (hops, ftores,&e. of The procersi had.
been entered by large bodies of men and wo
men, and the owners of the property compelled
to fell at luch prices as their visitors thought
proper to dictate. A plan for {hutting the bar
riers h id been in agitation, and a new m fiacre
appeared to be pending—but the Convention
fruftrated the d< sign ; and vigorous exertions
were made by the Communes arid thcComman
dant of the National Guard, to reftorc order and
tranquility. Notwithstanding th fe agitations,
the recruiting of the army goes on with vigour ;
and the contingent of Paris, more than 12,c00
men, is said to be already compleat.
Marat's pfefs, it is (aid, is fenced ; and a de
cree of the Convention us members
from taking any part in the editing of news-
papers.
Letters by ihe Adfive, Blair, from Havrr.de-
Grace, fay, that a doubt does not exist of the
Faench being able 10 establish their indepen.
dence, notwithflauding their numerous ene
mies.
There is a report, that three British fliips of
war, and several merchantmen have been cap
tured by the Fiench, and lent into Port-au.
Prince.
Paffengcrs in the fliip Pigou.
The Rev. Dr. Duche, his lady and 2 daugh
ters ; James Marlhall, Elq. of Virginia ; Caleb
Weft ; Mr. Riehards, of this city ; the Viscount
Noailles ; M. Tallon, the Abbe Cap ; Dr. My
erfbach ; Mr. Brown; Mr. Cox; M. Lieiz ;
and Mr. Jone«. The ahovi-, with the steerage
paflengers, amount to 68.
One of the French passengers drowned at
Lewiftown, we are crediblr informed, was the
Secretary of Citizen Geneft, the Ambaflador
from the French National Convention to the
United Stales of America. Mai/.
The Pathiotic FrinchSociity ot *H*
F« IENDI OF LIICKTY AIIO Eft VA LIT V, UttlJ
formed in th» city, have advemced the public,
that they have drpolited in rite b»nd»of Citiye*
Philip Fxeniau, No. >09, Market.fireet, •
Subscription-book, signed by the Prtfidtat an 4
Secretary, in which i» to be entered the free gilt
oi every pcrfon who wilhe« Is fubftribe for the
purpose of raifiiig a sum to pu" chafe ftnur aad
other provifioni, to be offereddoim>vu»*ii4
sent to the Republic of France, purfuaut 1Q a
rcfolution of the Society of tht 30th ult.
At a stated meeting of the Axxc IC«J*
pHiLoioriiicAL Sociitt, on the ioth nit,
the tollowvng Gentlemen were eIt&CQ Me«>*
ber», »ij.
William Warinc, of Philadelphia,
Thomas Lee Shippin, ditto.
John Rei nuold Foster, J. U. &
Certified from the Minutes,
Sam, Macaw, Secretary,
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cer.ts, . 16/6
3 pcrCrnti, 9/4
Deterred, lO J
Full Gm;> U. S- g per cent, prcaA letter addressed to the Preli
dent, informed him that 200 persons
had gone to the Printing Office of
Gorfas, and deltroyed liis prefl'es.
Qn the proposition of Lacroix, the
convention decreed, that the Mayor
of Paris should give an account of
what palled at the house of Gorfas.
March jo
Letter from the Commijjiinert tn Bel
gium " Douay, March 8.
" We fend you three dispatches
from Gen. Dumourier. By a let
ter from Gen. Miranda, we have re
ceived the difagreeabje intelligence
that Liege it occupied by the Auf
trians. It appeals happily, by ttoe
fame letter, that onr troops rallied
and are in a good fituarion. Gen.
Duinoui ier, in bis letters, consoles
us for the check experienced at Aix
]a-Chapelle, which rendered the
railing the siege of Maellricht ne
ceflary. " Unless the people abso
lutely lose their fenfcs," fays he,
" I cannot fee how 2{ or 30,000 men
can venture to pass the Meufe be
fore more than 50,000 united, who
for Tome days past have had no o
ther object than to defend that pas
sage. lam here engaged in two
sieges ; should they be prolonged,
I fha.ll not perfilt. I shall myfelf
join the army, and bring with me
a reinforcement of more 2p,000 men.
What has happened should give us
no uneasiness, provided we confine
ourselves for two weeks to a regu
lar defenfive system, which we shall
soon change into a terrible offenfive
one."
Roberfpierre, Lacroix and Dan
ton, complained of the treachery of
the Generals in. the affair of Aix la-
Chapelle ; and on a motion made
by them, the Convention decreed
that generals Stengel and Lanoue
should be brought to the bar to give
an account of their conduct, and
that (heir papers Ihould be sealed up.
The Marine Minirter informed
the Convention that the United
States of America in fraternal affec
tion towards the French Republic,
had celebrated her victories by re
peated fertilities.
The Convention decreed, that
rue vrrrntiteers <51 rti®
who had come to Paris, should re
tire to their refpe<ftive municipali
ties, and wait there till they might
be called out for military service
like other citizens.
On a report of the Colonial Com
mittee, the Convention decreed,
that the French Colonies are in a
slate of War, and that the civil and
military officers should concert with
the National Commiflionei's, and o
their orders ; that the regi.
ment of the Cape should be brought
back to France,-and resume its rank
in the line ; and that the free men
and natives of the country should
form themselves into legions and
free companies.
Lafource requested a modification
of the decree, for infliding capital
punishments on emigrants who re
turn to France. He said, that a
young girl 14 years of age,had been
sent to Paris by her parents who
were emigrants 1 and that accord
ing to law, (he was liable to lose
her head on the fcaffold. He mov
ed, therefore, that this barbarous
law in regard to children, should be
applicable only to those who were
aibove the age of twenty-one.
Thuriot proposed to suppress the
puriifhinent of death in regard to
female children only, but after a
longdebate the Convention decreed,
that no change should be made in
the law palled against emigrant!,
as far as it concerned male children ;
and that in regard to females, the
ptiniftiment (honld for the fir ft of
fence, be changed into tranfporta
tiwn from the -territories of the Re
public.
April 19.
INTERNAL COMMOTIONS.
Letter from the Jdminiftrators of
Mayenne and Loire.
Angers, March 17, 1790.
Reprrjentatives,
THE Department of Mayenne
Loire is in great distress, but it has
not loft courage.—The diftri<st of
St. Floient experienced the firft
shock : it has been entirely destroy
ed.—The treasury has been plun
dered, and the Patriots have been
either mafTacred or expelled by a
band of insurgents.
Various bodies of these banditti
are dilperfed in different quarters.
During the time that St: Floient was
ravaged,-one proceeded to the town
of Chenille, which soon experienced
the like fate.—Cholet, the chief
place of the diftritft, being rich by
its manufactures and commerce, at
tracted the attention of these plun
derers, and notwithstanding the re
finance it made, it was obliged to
surrender.
Yefterday,at noon, an engage
ment took place/which was A ill fa
tal to the patriots. The insurgents
are now proceeding to Saumur, an
important city, the pofleflion Of
which will render them mailers of
the whole country. The counter
revolutionifts have all white cock
ades. They demand a Icing, and
that the emigrants shall be recalled,
she administrative bodies have se
cured 200 of them, and in order to
intimidate these villains,they think
it necefl'ary that the law proceed
ings should be shortened.
March 20.
The official account of the at>
tempt made to massacre Manuel
was read. By this account it ap
peared that he had received sixty
wounds.
Letter from Gen. Dumitfrier.
Tireleinont, March 16.
" Citizen Minifler,
" I announce to' yon with the
greatest fatisfadtion, that the check
at Aix la-Chapelle, as far as it con
cerns the honor of the French arms,
has been repaired tliis day, in the
most brilliant manner. Yesterday
the Aurtiians attacked and took
Tirelemont, in which we had only
400 men. This great town not be
ing susceptible of any defence, and
being before the van guard, ported
on the five heights of Complichc.
Marshal Lamarche defended himfelf
with a courage and skill which sav
ed the French army, by giving dif
ferent divisions time to march to
his afliflance. A mirtake in the ex
ecution of orders might have car
ried alarm to Bruflels, and even to
Pari*. becauCe some bodies, in place
of repairing to their place of desti
nation, fell back, which might have
made tlie evil to be believed much
greater than it was.
" This morning I attacked Tire
leniont on the right and left with
a pare of the army, as the reft could
not come up. Gen. Valence com
manded the attack on the right, Mi
randa that on the left, and Egalite
that on the center. We carried the
town by main force, and went be
yond itjn pursuing theenemy,who,
in their turn, attacked us with much
boldness in the villages of Goide
fenhovere and Hawteinowder. The
army not only defended themselves
with the greateil firmnefs, but they
attacked with success in their turn
and night only put an end to the
combat, which continued witbotu
lntermiffion from yesterday noon,
till 7 o clock this evening.
" All the bodies of the army dis
played the greated courage. The
enemy also displayed much skill in
their manoeuvres, and on that ac
count 1 consider this affair as very
decisive for opinion. Several par
ties of the army were deprived, by
their d.fiance, of the honor of hav
ing a share in it J am perfuadetl
that the Prince de Cobourg will en
tertain esteem for the army of the
Republic. I cannot enter into any
particular detail, as I am obliged to
make preparations for to-morrow
1 shall only tell you that the Bth
regiment of infantry repulsed with
their bayonets, a charge by the dra
goons of Cobourg.
(Signed) " DUMOURIER",
B E L F AST, March 1?
At a meeting of the Didentine
Munfte.s of Belfaft, held on thf
11 th day of March, I 793, it was a
greed that the following declarati
on fcepoblifted, and a B copy of
transited to the Lord Chancellor!
th* r HaV , ln S/ een 1,1 the reports of
<». . Con,m 'ttees, dated 7th
" ' arch > 1 793»the following words
a"BeE'r haVC , beC " „
Aiccefa of h° In ,e pulpit ' for lhe
Jucceu of their arms, << meininn
the arms of the French, in the pre?
391
fence of military aflociations, which
have<.Jbeen newly levied and .array
ed in'thattowri."—We whole names
are hereunto annexed, dated Minis
ters of drjtin<s Protectant Di(leniing<
Congregations in the town of Bel
faft, do hereby solemnly declare,
each <?fF ns for himfelf, that the in
formation given to their Lordships
of the committee, upon this fubjedi
is, as far as concerns us, totally
groundless."
—Signed by James Bryfon, P.Vartte,
William Bruce, DD.
*' Since the French ilefclat'ation
of war against Great-Britain and
Ireland was known here, I did not
pray for the success of their arms
I do not recollect that I ever used
the words : I am certain that 1 ne
ver prayed for success to the French
arms before any military afiociati-
ons."—Signed by S Kslburn.
LONDON, March 13.
The butchers of Vienna ordered
an ox of lilver to be cast, of about
half a foot high, which they filled
with durats, and sent to the Empe
ror as a patriotic donation.
The Duke of Penthievre died on
the fourth of this month, of a drop
sy in the chest, at his estate of Ver
non. Two days before this event,
his daughter, who had been foi.te
time soliciting a judgment of fepa
,ration of property from her hus
band, M. Egaiite, gained hereaofe,
(o that (he alone Will possess theini
uienfe property of the Duke.
The Syren frigate, which had a
(hare in the glory of the late defer*
of the French, arrived yesterday
from Helvoet.
March 33
We now ifee the French driven
from Aix-la-Chapelle, Liege, Thir
lemout, Ruremonde, Gertruyden
berg, Maeftricht, Klundert, Wil
liamftadt, Doevern, Sardinia, &c.
Even the strong caftleof Konigflein
could not withstand the continued
efforts of Pruflian valour ; and the
desperate refiiftance of the emi
grants at Maeftricht, with the Hea
dy oppofirion of the Dutch at Wil
liamftadt, have given a check to the
Gallic ardour,which they will scarce
be able to recover this campaign.
For Dumoorier, Cuftine, Miranda
and the other heroes of the Frepch
army, we (hall now hear of the
prince of Saxe Cobourg, CJairfait,
prince of Hesse, the prime of Brunf
wick, prince of Orange, &c. To
this fad reverse in the state of the
French affairs, it will n«t be arro
| gance to fay, that the timely ariival
of the British forces has greatly con
tributed. Their unexpected ap
pearance on the Dutch coast, gave
frefh strength to Batavian valour ;
and though it cannot be said that
they have hitherto been engaged in
real adion, yet their pretence has
not been a little serviceable to the
Dutch, by inspiring them with new
courage ; and by taking the defence
of Dort, and other places imp their
hands, left the Dutch at leisure to
attend to more distant quarters
where the forces of the enemy
seemed to threaten the firlt attacks.
As to our seamen, never Happier
116 " ,n adion » cll e fine tough
old fellow, who commanded at Wil
lianiftadt, will acknowledge the ser
vices received from them—Their
aaiv.ty in the gunboat, gave t |>e
' repulse to the French before
that town, and by obliging Dumou
ner to change his position, may be
• aid, in a great measure to have Cav
ed the place. The Hollanders who
know this wjill doubtlels be readv
to reward it, and be no left thank
ful tor the countenance given them
by our soldiery, who will be as for
ward to fight for them, if an oppor
tunity should offer.
Th ursdalst, March jf.
A*r S mo '" in g'go»e r ntn«!treceiv.
Ed d.fp atchfs fr^ m Lmd Auekland>
bis Br'tsnmc Majeily's Anibaiftdor
at the Hague. The difpatehes are
tirllJ Tl ,a ft/*nd are e„.
y fi'ent reTpediing the adHon
sSTnft t0 o' e L aken P ' ace on the
u T?" the con trary they
fn, i, Dumouriei " was in full
foi ce between Louvain and Brnflels
-but that the French have e™ ire
-are V ro U n t t h d -° ftend ' by
water on their way to Dunkirk?
,etter rec «v 8 d by a refpeflable
AotTr hoofe tA thecky, ft** , ( 9K
respondent at Oltend, ftaies-that »
counter-revolution has bee,. eretf-,?
t l {'"a, [ hC of which
fare said to he, that the people d,f
fatisfied with the conduct of >h
Convention, and diliouraged br ,hf
late ail (uctefiiof their arnu, h*j re ! '
lealed the royal prifouer*, ditiblvcci
the convention, proclaimed the Uau
phin King, appointed th e Queen
Regent of the kingdom, t!ll^v lon .
I,eur «nali have tune Co arrive -"Th
letter adds, that upwards of' ?0 QO !
people loft their live, > opon >
cafion. Till the mail or f„„ leiur .
ther accounts arrive, it will be i m .
poflible to determine the degree of
credit due to this intelligence
An express from has'
this morning brought the latell in
telligence which has been receive.!
refpecfting the operation's of the
French in the neighborhood of of
tend—we lay this letter b f fore our
readers without comment.
MARGATE, March 27.
By an express arrived this morn
ing from Ortend, we learn that Of
tend is evacuated.
i he matter of the boat adds, that
the Auftrians were at Bruges, yet'- '
terday, and expttfted to be at Of
tend this day.
That the French had sent a num
ber of failars from nr
der to get oat (hips from the hir
hour, but they were obliged to make
the best of their back without fut
cefs.
He further fays, that Dumourier
is wounded and a prisoner ai Bruf
fels ; and that there has been a ve
ry great (laughter among the French,
for the Aultrians gave no quarter.
N.B. The express left Oitend this
morning about 1 o'clock.
The French gen. Dampiere, wbo
was taken prisoner near Henry
Chapelle, died of his wounds on
the 7th of March.
The late failures in London and
other commercial towns in England,
are computed at twelve millions vf
pbuuds sterling.
'I he following is a statement of
the French fleet at sea, viz. Le Re- t
publican of j 10 guns, L'Acliille 74,
Le Tourvjlle 74, L'Experiment 40,
La Thetis, La Concorde, La Sur
veillante, and La Reunion frigates,
| with two other of lefler force, mak
! ing in all ten fail.
Frtrtj the London Cantic, Marth 26.
HAGUE, March 22.
Intelligence has been received
here of a victory obtained by the
Prince de Saxe Cobourg over the
French at Neerlander, near Tirle
mont, which was preceded by a
long and (harp fltftion.
On the 15th inft. the advanced
ports of the Imperial army had been
beat back from Tirlemont, which
was re-taken by the enemy : On
the 16th, M. Dumourier attempted
to pass the left wing of the Iniperi- '
al army : On the 17th, there was
a change of portion, and a briik
cannonade: On the 18 th, at 7in
the morning, M. Dumourier attack
ed the centre of the Imperial army,
but was repulsed : he was likewise
repulsed by the Imperial right wing;
but about 3 in the afternoon, M.
Dumourier's right wing penetrated
thro' the Imperial left wing, whose
cavalry was prevented from ma- .
nceuviing, the ground being inter
fered by dirches. The corps of
reserve, commanded by M. Clair
fayr, then decided the vidory. The
French retired in gOod order until
6 o'clock in the evening, when the
Imperial cavalry put them to the
rout.
The number killed and wounded
is variously reported—lt is faidthat
the French have loft 53 pieces of
cannon.
PORTSMOUTH, *4#;
Admiral Gardiner's fleet ftilw
lad night with leading
the channel.
LONDON, March )6.
All the accounts by the Dutch
mail of yellerday, agree in ftaiiugi
that the conflidi between the Auf
trians and French, on the ißih, was
obltijiate and bloody ; and that great
bravery and military flcill were
nifefted by both armies.
Vnih. cti.piii. en.
_ Oil, nittn pr cafe 2 s''
PRICE CURRENT- —s*c. t ,b>fe,i l ,-o J &,,pr.box 10
ru BU »»T,i..-Dou«»..ooCt«i. «cK. 0.i«» b-lkil., .2 bjiltlc. 5
Spermaceti pr. gall. w t©
PHILADELPHIA, MAT 7- 7j£!"
—U haic *5 OJ
Us. Dlh.Ch I'jricr pr. c<«fk, 5 JJ
NCttORS pr.lb. 7 »«»
/flfuin, tn ItlU, pwwi. 433 —A.n.rK,... u.uo bo.-.ncK . 4 >
Dun, Roch pr It . " ? Uc , h ' P r \ bbl . , 1 7J " *
A«hJ.,po»,p C rUr, « 2 ° >'o.k Burl,ng.on, per barrel, 4
ip car i 137 '4° 7 ' Lower county *3
Arrack pr. i.Il. »33 I>6 Carolma si
Brmuy, common, 85 P a , Albany pr. bushel '3
Cm.uc 9° 100 frpp". P r - lb - "
Braziletto, pr. ton. 8* 34 .'imento
Bricks, pr. M. 4 7 Kaifins, heft, pr. keg
Bread, thip, pr. cwt. 2 2 7 Ditto pr.jar 2 '33
Ditto, pilot 3 7 Ditto pr. box 223
Ditto, finail water, per krg 3" 4° ;» !Ce pr. cwt. 3
Beer, American, in bo'tle*, R.olin pr. barrel
pr.doz. bottle* included, 1 £ u m, Jamaica, pr. gallon 112
Ditto pr. barrel, 4 / • — 1 Qf .
Boards Cedar pr. M feet, " 2 ° Windward
—Mew England > 2 *4 Barbadoes
Oak M ,b Country, N. E. 1,1
Merchantable pine io 24 $al wf , 4 33
%or 3 u Sadafra, pr ,o« 6 8
-r——Mahogany, per foot t hot F diuo , 4 o .4'
Tne aboveare ih ihallop price*, ' , ~ ~ o
Steel, Gerrpaii pr.lb. ?
9.r the yard pnee, add 1 del. ! EngtKh.bUtteit'd, pr. cwt. 19
33 cc,lls P" »<?*>• — America* pr. ton S8 <
in rolls, pr.cwt. ? | Crowley's pr. faggot icr "7
Beef, Boft'oll, per barrel >2 inake root pr. lb. s ® i
—— Country ditto 9 1 J ioap. Brown per lb.
——Fri lb, peV cwt. 333 4 ' Whit* '
Butter pr. lb. V Castile 11
-? k Jg« 10 itarcb 7
Candles, Sp'erin. pr. Ik. V fc nu ff pr. doz. hot. 4 5.
Wax Spermaceti, rthnrd, pr.lb, 4
— Myrtle Wax * Sailcloth. Enlrlifti.N&Apr. yard, u8
Mould, tallow t Boftrn, No. I. eiltd .1°
Dipped XT t r *9
Cheese, EnglTlh, pr. lb. *9 i, '°* * 2 -
8 13 ' " gar , r r P ' f fiWd 4
Chocolate >8 » | finale:»fh.<d 4
Cinnamon 240 .®7 D.tdo, double do 33
Cloves >33 Hannah, wW '7
_ 17 1 Ditto, brown, 11
Cocoa pr. cwt. » 7 r i ♦ n «a
ie *7 MuTcovido, pr. cwt. 13 -5
Coal pr P . 'bufccl 2 4 f 37
r* nn i °7 Anurn pr. 3o
Copperas pr. cwt. 1 * . » o-j
S, d „T A""'""' '5 jj.-f-p* s
. r *a Lisbon £1
Currants -
Duck, R,ufTia, pr. piece 13 Ship build. W. O. francs p.ton, 1807
•——Ravens I ,° Ditto Live 0«k, 33
Dutch fail duck, 20 Ditto red cedar, per foot 3S <0
Feathers pr.lb. 4 8 Shingles ,8 ,nch. p«r M. 3?3 |®7
Flax ditto " IL , Ou.o 2 feet 650 6
Flax feed pr. bu(h. c Ditto 3 fee,, drefM, 13 U
Flour, Superfine pr. barrel' 6 !«aves P'PS >°°P. 3'
——Common, 5 67 —Whr.e 6aU hogtbead, 20 33
Bur middling., best 447 Red Oak do. 190
—Meal, Indian 3'3 Leogan H33
-t—ditto R>e, 333 — Sa ", el „
Ship-ftuff pr. cwt. v4O —Heading ... 2 4 W
F uft,c pr. ton, Skins, d)tter, btff pr. 4^
*. „ * Jr rr —-Minks «o 1°
Cm, HoJiand, pr. cafc, 1 p . Fox , srt >y 40 80
Do- pr. g all. &= 90 -Drtio red i«o
Glu.c, p/.ewt. io 21 33 M arl ,6s 24 * -
Gmgcr, white race, per lb. 7 £ifticr 33 e 7
Ditto, common 7 Bears 3
Dmp, gfo'und pr.lb. 10 Rocoon , s 7 60
Ginseng, 20 s 4 Mu (k-rats 11 »o
Gunpowder, caanon, pr. q.cafk, 373 4 Beaver, pr. lb. 67 133
, O'tto fipc glazed , ; 4 Dee., in ha,r *0 .3°
Gram, Wheat pr. bulh i y 1 27
' " Rye 6c Tar,N. Jersey, 24 gal. p. bbl. 1
——Oats 35 Carolina, 32 gall. 2
~—-Indian corn 60 Turpentine pr. bbl. 233
J Barlev i 1 3 Tobacco, J. River, heft ioold. 433
'•• '■ 15eft (belted pr. lb. 7 inferior 333
——Buckwheat, per bush. 40 - 4 "7
* , c- c Rappahannock 3 33
Hemp, imported, pr. ton, 120 -.4667 Coloured Maryland, 533 8
American,pr. ib. 4 5 D k i 0
Herrings, pr. bbl 3 " on gl,.k f 24=
Hides, raw pr.lb. 9 Eaftevn-lbor. I 3 t 3
J: O PJ j. ~ Carolina,new a 7 3
Hogihead hoops, pr. M. 15 o]di g gg
Indigo, French per lb. 1 40 j ,53 Tea, Hyson pr.lb. 93 1 28
Carolina i i 20 Hyson (kin, 53 60
Irons, fad pr. ton, 133 33 Souchong, 50 gg.
Iron, Callings pr. cWt, 3 4 Congo, 43 50
Bar pr. ton, 84 Bohea, 33 36
• ■ Fig 24 Tallow, refined, per lb. 9
Sheet 173 33 Tin pr. box, 33 13 67
——Nail rods t 33 Vetdigreafe pr. lb. 47 53
Lard,' hogs pr.lb. 9 ,0 Vcrm.lhon, do ,33 >67
t . 5 - r y c Vamifh, pergallon q-j xj
i.ead, in pigs pr. cwt. 533 567 v ° a/
-in bars 7 Wax, Bees pr.lb. 65 B7
white to 10 67 Whale-bone, long pr.lb. 13 30
—red 6 40 6 6 Wine, Madeira, pr. pipe, 176 116
Leather, foal, pr. lb. 17 20 Lisbon 1 *o 126
Lignum viia: pr. ton, 5 60 6 —Tencriffe, pr. gallon 63
Logwood 30 F dya l
!U aC t P i r 'K b '(i tui a Port pr. pipe ~333
Mackarel, bt.lt r-r. bbl. 8 Ditto in bottles, pr.dor. 4
ftond quality 6 4 Claret 4 6
Madder, best pr. lb. 16 20 Sherry pr.gili. 90 ijo
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, 133 267 Malaga 7-7 80
Mast spars ditto 33
MolafTes pr.gall. 44 47
Mustard per. lb. 8? COURSE OF EXCHANGE
flour, ill bottles, pr.doz. i to k/iiu/hiui,
Nails, SI iod. 12d. and vod. pr.lb. ,0 0,1 London . a j 3° days, per £ .too fterl. 455
Nutmegs pr. lb. 7 8 at 60 days 456
at 90 aays
Oil, Linseed, pr. gall. 66 Amfterda m, 60 days, pr. a -,
Olive 87 90 day*/ B {\
Stock Brokers Office,
No. tC, W>H-ftreet, Ntw-Yofe k
THESuhfciiber intending to. confine himfclf
entirely to the tHJ&CH Ai& & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, begsleave 10 of
fer his services to his Friends and others, in the
line of* Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their buTmefs, may depend
upon having it tranfa&ed with the utmost fide
lity and diTpltch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boflon. or any
®ther part of the United State?, will be ftri&ly
attended to.
LEONARD ftfrETECKER.-
0-f.)
a
66
g 7
DEPARTMENT of STATE, to wit.
NOTICE is hereby given to persons inter:
elfrd in the property or the proeeediites
ot CLAUDIUS PAUL RAGUETT. a cituen
of Pennsylvania, lately decealed, ai Bourde-aux,
in Fiance, that on application at the Office of
the Secret;'ar\ of State, they may receive infor
mation i<-lative thereto, as tranfmittcd bv Mr.
Fenwick, Confu! for the United States at
Bourdraux.
GEORGE TAYLOR, jun. Chief Clerk.
Philadelphia, April 30, gt
83" The price of this Gazette is Three Dollar j
per anmiK—Ont hmij t» it paid at the time af/ui
ftni iMg.
392
By THOMAS JOHNSON, DAVID
TL's/KT,lk L)A.\IELCARROLL,
Es quires,
Commission its appointed by Government 10
lie I'oDlic Buildings, &c. within ilie
Ci'V of H'ljhington, for the reception of Con
grrfs, and lor ihetr permanent rcfidence after
the ytrai 1800 — x
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal C itV.
$0,000 Tickets at 7 dollars, arc 350,000 dollars.
LIST OF PRIZES, viz
s Supeib Hotel, wi«h bath*, )
out houses, &c.&c.to coll )
1 Cash Prize
l ditto
1 ditto
r dtito
- r ditto
10 ditto
20 ditto
100 ditto
200 ditto
400 ditto
i,ooo ditto
15,000 ditto
i6i73T P r '"»
33, Blanks
$0,000
By this scheme at leajl the amount of the tick
ets will return to the fortunate adventurers, and
yet the federal City will gain its object thereby!,
in a magnificent building dciigncd both for pub
lic and private convenience.
Although foroe expence must neceffarity at
tend the conducing of the lottery, (which ex
pence * ill be taken from the principal prize) 1 he
Coinmiflioncrs having agreed to present in re
turn a fu&cient quaiuity of excellent fiee-floue,
together with the best adapted lots for the hotel
and for the 01H-houfes, the value of the lottVry
entire may be fairly.rated a' Jomtthing more than
far: In this important instance it willbetound,
on examination; to exceed all the lotteries that
have ever b'een offered to the Public in this or
perhaps in any other £ounuy. The key's of :he
Hotel, when compleat, will be delivered to the
fortunate pollYffor of the ticket drawn aafcaintf
its number.—Ail the other prizes will be paid,
without deduflioh, in one month after the d; awing, by
the City Tre'afurer at Wafnington, or at such
Bank or Banks as may be hereafter announced,
for the convetriency of the fortunate adventurers.
The drawing will commence on Monday the
9th of Septembei next, at the City of Wafliing
ton.
Tickets may be had of Col. Wm. Dickens, City
'freafurer of Wafhi.ng'on ; Thayer & Burtlet, of
Charleston, South-Carolina ; Gideon Denjon, Sa
vannah ; Messrs. James WeJIZ3 Co. Baltimore;
Mr. Peter Gi/man, Boston; and at such other
plaies as will be heieafter publiflied.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given fnr the best Plan of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or IN-N, with hot and cold
Baths, Stables, and other out houses, if pre/ented
on or bejore the ioth 6J April next; and a pre
ference will be givi n 10 the Ariift for a Con
tra&, provided he be duly qualified to
compleat fiis plan. The ground 011 which
the Hotel and out houses are so be ere£led, will
be a coii tier lot of <lbout 90 by 200 feet, Witfi a
back avenue to th'e stables, &c. Scftions and
eftirriates bf the eXpense will be cxpe&ed
with the elevations, cohiplcat ; and 50,000
dollars must be regarded by the Ai chftett as the
uimoft. lihiit in the exprrife im« rided lor this
purpose. S. BLODGET,
Agent for the affairs of the City.
March 6, 179#-
TICKETS
In the FEDERAL CITY LOTTERY,
May be-hid at SAMUEL COOPfcß's Ferry.
City of Washington.
January 7th, 17^3.
A NUMBER of Lois in this City will be of
fered tcir file at au&iort, By the Commif
fmncrs, on the 17th day of Scptfehlwff ndxt —
One fourth part of the piirchife m'oniy is to be
piid dovVn, the reftdiieat three equal annual pay
ments with yearly intercft oh the whole princi
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk to the Cevh'rs.
fixtraft of an A£l of the General Aflembly of
Maryland, cnnrcrning th'e Territory of Co
lumbia, aridl the City ot Wafhingiou.
u Be it eria£Ld, Thai arty Jdreigvi'r 'iriay hy
deedvr will, hereafter to it made, takt and fold hinds
within that part bj thejaid Territory which lies tiurth
in this $tate\ ih the fame manr.hr as if he urns & citt
zen ihis State \ and the fame lands m'a\ In con
veyed. by him y and transmitted to and fit infreYited $y
his heirs or relations, us if he atid titty toefe citittns
of this State : Provided, That no foreigner jhttll,
in virtue hereof, be entitled to tny fifrthei or "other
privilege of d citizen."
J3II. 19. tf
Juff pubhfhed,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
At t\e Stone Motife, No. 41, South Second-Street,
A CASE,
Decided in the Supreme Oodrt of the Uttttin
States, in whicli is dfciufcd the Question,
WHETHER A STATE IS LIABLE TO BE
SUED BY A PRIVATE CITIZEN OP
ANOTHER STATE ?
•Pric'e Half a Dollar,
NEW TEA S.
IMPERIAL,H YSO N&SO UCHONG
Of the very firff tjuality,atid la'etl importation
frotn Canton, via New-York, by retail,at
N°. 19,
Third, between Chefuui and Market Streets.
N. B. Ajeu Vexes oj the above HYSON jo< fait.
5c, 000
25,006"
20,000
15.000
10,000
I 0.000
10,000
10,000
10,000
io-.000
to,odo
20,0 CO
150,000
5,000 ate
1,000
5 00
I 00
5° J
*5
20
10
Dollars 350,000
Albany Glafs-Houf-
TVTfeprieto,, ,
M-CLALLEN, M'GRKGOR a „j Co
L>tG leave to inh rm the public,. h,, lhr .r.
XJ now brought il»c>r WINDOW n
such pcVfefllou, JS w ll beL„^ o £*f'•
Having fixed tlwif p,i. :e , „ ,
imported Giafs.ihty are nd„<eil to heli.,T*
itnuoriatioiuoT this artiflc w ,|| dlf ''• '"f
1(1 p'ropiSHiohat theU vwiikVj,- rv<,'"!! '
They piopcrl,m„^en'-rgc t( ,V ~; <K.
nels, wd m the fitecbVof c will « cvnit *
patriotic fuppdri of ihi pobfi*, the, v, *;
folic* their Incriaiy pa„ 0 „a- c » * V"j
a blanch which will irtfrreß'eu,, • ,
Ami«icmiMa»m«ciihh. '"'of
All orders-for Wrn on w-6vam
wiH l.r rrc,tv«i »i it* <Koi»j «f J
MacGbicoh, tJo. «a^.6u«o.ftiV r , »T
York, ant> «< lilt d'llrT^.s
atlcitd rtt to. r—wwj
WANTEDi fil fnfan LADL^
exceeding 16 years of age, to be igd
Apprentices, and' rr-uUrlv inHmaefr i. ,3
varirfus bratithci of CMafe.MsViri!..
A If", threr Wlrtddtar.(sU» .
great encouragement will be ijivfcn,
May. 1, 1793,
Ahi Ordinance Jor feci, ring tkc p,i„tha\
Payment of the Monies due on til
Srlbfcfiptib'ns to the Society j or eh-
I'lijh'ing Ufefut Manufa&ures, '
WHEREAS doubts have heretofore an fen
Willi regard- to the pnvfrr ol'tKr Snci t , v
to'armcxafiy prtiahn-stb Air tnn-paVmrni nfftfe
niftal'tnenls, agreVabiy t» rflt" MThi*.,F(K»ft(|i
fcripiious. A-nd whr, ca, ttu . U,.a« utr „
lift fcfli.ms, puff d a (implement to ihcor :p ,„,i
la w of ncoiporaiion, removing the said <». utu
alid' iuilv- a-uthorizing the fimftori to pass my
ordinance they p'Toptr, ibtuihuAlft
pt the said* fuhfcfiptinn).
St. t. He it otiatnei. thtrefoic iv ttu Gmuut
ard Direflors of the Society for ejlabljlfi'ni
l-.at if any (uMcr.her'tiHis. R\ it
(hail neglefl to pay rile second pavnWntot b>i'
her, or' their lelpcflive ful.fcrmnohs, '.rtnettirr
wuh the lawful inteif ft arifmg thereon, mlici 10
the caftiicr o! the United Statu Brnk Otfice of
Difcounr and Dv.sofit, at' ?Crw-"f.>r'k,tftecalttiirr
of the bank ot Ww-Y.Ak, the eaftnw „( t)t e
Bank nf the Unued St-tie'i, in' c.{
John Bayard, Esq. in the city nt New-Bruirf.
wick, in the state o( New.Jcrt v, on or be'ore
the thirteenth day of Apiil next : Thit t'tVeriarid
in'that csrff, all'any tvi'rv fha.e or (harts of feS
person ot persons so negle£lini> m make tuen pay.
merits as aforesaid, and the monies l>y ihero pre.
vio\jfl> paid, (fial! be forfeited, and tnVcrcnhcic.
after vifted i'ri rVic (aid D'rfflors, and thtll (no
eefforD, (6t the eotnlWon beßtfit of the ti\i S.'.
e-iety.
Sec. 2. Ard be it further ordain >di>x thtauihrtty
a[oT<jaii % Thai If any fubfiiiTSe' ,~ui his
(hall ilegleft to pay (fit third payment of fui. her
6r th^r 1 fefitetfive ftlbfcriptions, together with
the lawful iritereft anfing th-ereon, >n o# b<fotfe
the thirteenth day of May next. That ihen
in that cak all and every fha:e 01 (hares of fach
jitrTon Or pefons so ri'cghEKngio m<kc fuai
payments aforefaifl, and ftie morrierby them
previously paid, fha'll be forfeited, and fftMfr
thereafter veficd in the said Di«t& n 's t and ihrrr
fwcceflVvrs, for the common bcncfii ot the laid
Society.
Sec. 3. A dbe itfutiher ordiined by tfJMlhdrlh
ofortfaid % That if any fubferibei, or ht»
/hall neg!e& to pay the fourth payrticm of f.»»,
her, or their refue&ive fubfcripiion*,on or before
the thirteenrith day of July iVcxt,lfiat tfirn and 10
fliat cafe, all dnd eVery ftiafe or ftian'f of firth
person rir perfom, so nPgU6t-wg 10 ntakt fach
payments as afoiefaid, and the monirs by ibeto
previously paid, (hall be loife ted, and iorcvrr
thereafter vetted m tlie fatd Duetto is. ami ifiti'r
ftlcCeffors, fbr the Common bem fit fit the f?itl
Society. NICHOLAS LOW, &hetM
PaJJedat New-Ark, 20th Februar\, 1793.
(Couuterfignedy ELISHA BOLDINOT,
Secretary piotempore.
BE If K N bWN, thai the propoj: on ol spe
cie which may bt piid on the ufpcft've pay
menfs of evefy original Ihart 1 * by such SuitlL
holders as prefer paying a irmittv of fat.i foarfi
in fpecte, in lieu of deterred debt, tsas follows.
M. C*.
On the 13'h of April, 1793, wiihin-
Icttft from 13th July, 1792, 7 "J
On thl 1 13'ih ot May, i793> ' h ' R .
(crrft ! 1 i.m 1 Jlh January, 1793, J
On iht-ijih of July, 17981
Stockholder, in ihe (aid Snc>c«'« •*"*>
riohflcd, that t, 1 (it fubfctil.i r, am duly autho
rised lo niake Ihi fMjUlftit iiitftAfrthcnrt »pi
thr certificates of IViaies w hieh thev rtriy it fn
tivcly hold, and that booksof tranattr aretpr'
ed at my oiJice, in Fiont-lir<et. Nrw-Yf' ■
' NICHOLAS LOW.
MHtkryil, \m '" W " 3
Post-RoaD
TO THE GENESEE COUNT HI
THE public are hereby informed, lj>»' . lk
PoffcSoMt from Philadflphia to **•"*;
it continued to Suobury jiiii N'orihumbciiJ"' .
thence up .be Weft Branch of (he
a, far .Airman,; tbcn« lot
fn New-York state, near the toilftollM TP)
thence to Bath (a tow.. t»ift out or. ih« foh
Branch t)F the trog.J thence to WW**
at .he forks ol Genefee River, i .
t-![ers lor tins new route will b fil/
ihe H.Udelphia M-Office "'r v Wei. r
morning, at cigh't o'cloclt, «.ib the m'
Heading. j f,«m
A wee'k'ly rn#.l w'H a.lo be j
Bethlehem to WilfltcOurre, >» the ">
Luzeinc.
General PD]
let, AM'6, 1793-
(£}' Wanted to cdmphaiflts $J^' s ij,
Urng M-Si* fMt ** *m»">
Editor jor a jew oj tfaj* mcers '
fp»2w