A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WE
[No. of Vol. IV.]
LAWS OF THE UNION.
Of" HE UNITED STATES,
AT THE SECOND SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia,
in the State of Pennsylvania, on Monday
the'fifth as November, one thousand
seven hundsed and ninety-two.
AN ACT to afcerjain the fees in Ad
miralty proceedings in the Dif
trjft Courts of the UnWcd States,
aftd for othei* ptrrpoFes.
BE it en ifS'id by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States ot
America, in Cong ess assembled, That from
and after the firft day of May next, ™ ere
ftiall not be taxed or adjudged to any officer
or other person, any greater or other tee or
reward, for, or in refpeft of any service to be
do:ie sr performed, in any of the d:ftriftcourts
of' e United States, in cases oi admiralty or
mar time ju- ifdittion, than such as is herein
fpecrfi?d i that is to .av :
fee, ot the Cmxf ilor or Attorney in the diftta
cowt, in Adini-uh* ani maritime proceedings. _
J' ,e stated fee !'o'd'awing and exhibiting
11>, -1 -ct in and dtjftver in each caul'e, three
io'kif-t '
Dts v 'nt-rr9garoi- : es, three dollars;
other j„ a: ,y one
-ttlree dollars.
F-uj v/ tiie detk tj the diflriflwurt, in admiralty
and maritime caujes.
fbt flhaving every stipulation, process, mo
aition oi* for each sheet containing
ninety \vot<ls, fifteen cents.
Atld for engrolfingeaEh sheet, ten cents ;
interingthe return a! jttocefr,fifteen cents;
t'ilingevery libel, claim, pleading, or other
piper, fix cents ;
Copies of the pleadings, interrogatories,
dejtofiypiis and exhibits, when required, for
each lheet of ninety words, ten cent" ;
Entering proi lamation, fifteen ceats ;
Entering each default, twelve cents.
Wintering every rule of court, fifteen cents;
Examining each witness, and drawing his
demolition, for each flieet containing n
words, fifteen cents ;
Gertiifying each exhibit of writing shewn
to a witness, at his examination, twenty-five
cents;
Drawing every decree, or decretal order,
for each flieet containing ninety woi'ds, fif
teen cents ;
And for entering the fame in the minutes,
far each flieet, as aforefaid, ten cents ;
For drawing a record, or making a copy of
the proceedings, for each Iheet containing
niriety Words, fifteen cents;
But hp pleading, depletion, exhibit, or o
tber writing!, to be inle; ted therein verbatim,
or in hs6c verba, (hall be computed as any
part of such draft.
Entering a record in the register, or en
grbffing or copying proceedings or records to
be felled or exemplified, for each Iheet oi
ninety words, including all the pleadings, de
pofitiofts, exhibits and Writings inserted there
in, ten cents;
Every certificate, twenty cents;
Entering return of appraisement or sales,
For eaCh flieet of ninety words, ten cents ;
Affixing the leal to any paper, when requi
red, twenty five cents ;
Drawing coninriffion to examine witnefles,
for each flieet containing ninety words, til
teen cunts ;
And for engrossing the fame, if on parch
ment, includingtheparchment, twenty cents;
And-if on paper, for eacb Iheet of ninetjr
words, ten cents;
Sweating each witness in court, ten cents ;
For every entry or writing not mentioned
or tlefcribed, ftich allowance fliall be taxed,
as forlitnilar serVices, lierein mentioned.
AM money deposited in court, one and a
qtiarter per cent.
Feel of the Marjkal in the dijlrid court, in admi
rals and maritime cuujis.
For funimoniug every witness or appraiser,
fifteen cents ;
Making each proclamation, fifteen cents;
Serving every capias, attachment or sum-
Tiion?, one dollar and fifty cents ;
Travelling each mile, going only, either to
serve procefs,or fubpcena witnefles,ten cents;
Custody fees of vefiel, lor each day, one
dollar and fifty c?nts ;
Sales, for any sum under five hundred dol
lars, two ar.d an half per cent ; and for any
larger fufti, or>d and a quarter per cer.t. upon
the excess.
DAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 34, NORTH F1 FT HST Rh.i. /, PHlt ABfcLVHIA
Saturday, May i i, 1795.
And be it further enacted, Th*t there be al
lowed and taxetl in the fuprertie, circuit tad
dfftrift courts of* the Uni'ed Stares, in favor
of the parties obtaining judgments therein,
such compensation for their travel and at
tendance, and for attornies and counsellors
fee?, except in the diftrift courts in cases of
admiralty and maritimejurifdi&ion, as are Al
lowed in the fupieme or superior courts of
the refpec'tive States.
Afrdbe it further That this lh.ill
continue and be in force for the term of one
year, and from thence until the end of the
next session of Congtefs thereafter, And no
longer.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speker
of the Hokje of Rtprtftntatives.
JOHN ADAMS, Vtce-frefident oj the
United States, and Prefidtntvf the Senate.
APPROVED MARCH 1, >793'
GEO. WASHINGTON,
Trefiient of the United Slates.
AN ACT to authorize the adjust
ment of a claim of Tofeph Heii
derfon against the United States
BE it ena&cd by ttm Senate and House ot •
Reprefentativ>fts of the United States df
America in Corrgrefs affeinbled;, That there
be allowed to Joleph Henderfon, a yeatrfy Sa
lary of one hundred dollars, for his service.. as
paymaster to the Navy-Board for the eastern
department, frorfl the tenth day of Aupuft,
tone thousand seven hundred and ferenty eight,
to the tenth day of Aitguft one rhohfaiid ft ven
hundred and eighty-two, being 4(nrr years;
and that the officers of the Treasury be au
thorised to pass the fame to his ciedit, and to
fettle brs account accordingly.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, 'Spiihr
t>j the Hottfcof Reprtfintativis.
JOHN ADAMS* Vitc Prcfidcnt of the
United Stairs, ar.d Prtjident oj the Senate.
AVFROVED, FEBRUARY 22, 1703.
GEO. WASHINGTON,
PrcJiSentofthe United States.
AN ACT to authorize the Comp
troller of the Treasury to fettle
the account of Thomas Wifhart,
late a Lieutenant in the army of
Itates.
BE it enacted by the Senate and House at
Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress That the
Comptroller of the Treasury be, and is here
by authorized to adjust and fettli thi account
of Thomas Wllhart, late a lieutenant in the
arijiy of the United States, and to allow him,
in add tion to the pay, to which he may be en
titled as an officer deranged under the acts of
Congress hf the year one ihoufard seven hun
dred and (evenly eight, the pay of a lieute
nant, from the I Jth day of October, one
thousand ftven hundred and eighty, to the
fifteenth day of October, dpe thoullind seven
hundred and eighty one.
JONATHANTRUMBULL, Sft/rier
of the House of Rtpnjcntatmcs.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prefidtnt oj the
United Stales, and President oftheScnate.
•APPROVED FEB RUA R Y 22. 1793"
GEO. WASHINGTON,
President of the United Mites.
AN ACT in addition to, and altera
tion of the act, entitled, " An a<£l
to extend the time limited fo.r
fettling the accounts of the Uni
ted States with the individual
States.
BE it enacted by the Senate and House of
RipreTentatives of the United States of
America iti Congress aflemblcd, That the se
cond feftion of the aist, entitled, "An ast to
extend the time limited for fettling the .ac
counts of the United Stales with the indivi
dual States," which extended the powers of
the board of to the settlement
of the accounts betweeji the United States
and the State of VermoAt, be ltd hereby is
repealed.
And be it further enacted, That the board
of commiflioners eftablilhed to fettle the ac
counts between the United States and the in
dividual States, in apportioning the aggre
gate of all the balances due to each State, be
tween the States, agreeably to the ad, enti
tled, " Art ast to provide more effectually for
the settlement »f the accounts between tlie
United States and the individual States,"
lhall have no regard tothe State of Vermont.
And be it fortbter finafled, That in the ap
portioning of the balances aforefaid, the State
of Kentucky IhaH be deemed to be incloded in
the State of Virginia, the 3dmifiion of the
faiil State of Kentucky as a member of the
Union notwithstanding.
JON AT HAN TRUMBUI.L, Speaker
of the House of Refrtfentatives.
JOHN ADAMS, fne-Prefident of the
United States, and Prejident oj the Senate.
ATP* OV ID FEBRUARY 47, 1793.
GEO. WASHINGTON,
frrfdent oj the tfnitei States.
393
FJtO&t TUB COLUMBIAN CINTIKEL.
Mr. Russell,
THE following Stanzas were lately compofrd
at Cambridge, and inferibed to a gentleman in
that town, whose taste isfo pleasingly exhibited
inhtyrlegant Seat; and of which a recent dis
play reflects no less honor on his generality. A
beautiful current, which his Fi(h-Pond difcharg
«d, had long flowed unnoticed, through a low
groujid to the banks of the Ch afc l f.s. On one
fide ps this rivulet, he raised a gravel.walk, pre
pared a receptable for a larger stream, fbaded it
with willows, and terminated the Mail with an
arch, through which the water is emitted, by a
g«nlle and transparent cascade. This modern
iyccufn has enrolled tbe daughters of beauty in
the academy of Peripatetics ; and the Mujes, who
warbled on the banks of JHjfus, have consecrated
it with their lyres, to Apollo and Kygeia ;
" White The 1 Willow* waves all its green boughs
to ihtir forig." Sheridan.
STANZAS To BRATTLE.
■XTRITTMS IN JOKI, t75».
HERE'ER the vernal bowe*-, tbe autum
nalfield,
, Tbe 'fummer -arbour and the winter fir.e;
Where'er tbe charms, which all thefeafons yield,
Or, Nature's gay museum can inspire ;
Delight the bofoiti, or tbe fancy please,
Or, &fe exalt above a splendid Hreaiti;
There, Bk atti e's fame (ball freight the grate
ful breeze.
Each £rcve refdund it, and reflect each stream.
Each that waves o'er brown I*6mon a's
plains.
Each bud, that Woffoms ift the ambrosial
bower,
Nurs'd by this.great Imp.hover's art., obtains
A nobler girmin, and a fairer Jtower.
The rural vale a kind asylum gave,
When peace the feats of ermin'd woe forfook ;
found an Athens in a Cdii'tr.
And man grew social with the bfcblrftg broolc*
Here, happy Brattle, in thy lov'd recess,
*Twas thine the f>btloTbphic gtove to tract;
And, viewing N-atore in a gay ukdrefiy
With Art's fl'ght veil embelli(h every grace.
The airv hriN-top and the Dr\d>Z's. bowe>,
No more (hall tempt out fpomve nymphs to
rove ;
Thy WlHow-jfidae {ball woo the social hour,
And fhiar#iVfc Mall fdrpafs ARC adVa's
griv*.
Fair FrieitdJliif, lovely virgin, here rcfort!
Here with thy chaTms the joy-wing'd nidrti
1 beguile ; , ,•
Thy eyss clisten utterance to
THOUGHT,
Atld learn the cheek of hopeless glooiii tb
smile.
Here too, at eve (hall choirs of damsels pafe»
Yield a foft fplrndor to Diana's beam,
Gaze at the image in the watery glass,
And blush new beauty to the flattening Ttream !
While the pleas'd Nai ad, watching their return,
As oft at morn her sportive limbs (he laves,
Hetrs their lov'd voice, and leaning on her«irn,
Stops the smooth current of her silver waves.
Here, mingling with the fair, the classic Beau,
Sha-11 quit his Euclid and hi* evening oil,
To si Jofot" a compliment, u project" a bow,
Or, " eafculaW' the " edlipfes" of a smile.
Here too,(hall Harvard's more ennobled sons,
In whom theveftal " fiies of genius glow,*"
Stand musing, as the chryflal mirror runs,
While FMrtcv copies its pellucid flow.
And here, when SpßiNGher Cailitft ftbwerets
ftrfw*,
When firft Zeph y r us, from hi* winter cave,
Looks out—aftonifn'd at the change he views,
Aod kijifig* leaves a HmfU on the wai/t,
Some fair Phi lima, with her plaintive Jyre,
May charm the mind, and moisten every eye,
While weeping Muses hush the feftive wire,
And the lorn Witloiv undufetes a sigh.
The dear cafeade, whose (ireid lapse fitpplied,
Spreads an unruffled (beet of lymph r-efin'd,
Shines a fair emblem of thy bounty's tide,
Theexhauftlefsfountain of a Brattle's mind.
While thus rninying all, that rajt bestows,
That Friendship yields, or !>ticvcc can refine;
Whiie A r T to thee a brighter polilh owes,
And Nature owns, that half her charms are
thine ;
Tho' nf> Pactolus rolls hisgoltlen waves,
Nor wafts his liquid Indias to thy shores j
More affluent Charles thy fertile viHa laves,
And Uve»,+Euthr ATis-like,Ei/f( r<!n bowers.
Boltoti, Aptil *i, *tS3-
* Phi lew iA,
• + The fii'fi liver of Turkey, in Ast a, aajhing
the luxurious country oj Diarbeck, the ancient '•'ejo
petunia, in which the garden cf £den is Juppnfta to
lime Lttn Jituated.
MENANDER.
[Whole No. 42 i.J
For the GAZETTE tj the UNITED STATES.
fH CUTS on THE
STATE OF AMERICAN INDIANS.
(Continued from, AV. 97, oj 'hit Gazette,J
No. VI.
CIVILIANS have remarked three stages
in lite progress o>f(bcietyfiombarbari(in
to refinement—dittinft from each other, aT.d
marked by a peculiar cbarafter.
The tranlition from one of tiiefe to tfi«
other, is formed by almost imperceptible gra
dations.
Those countries which have prefentefl! 11s
with man in his rudest form, have uniformly
exhibited him in the character of a hunter.
Thus the inhabitants 6f the I (tends in the At
lantic and Pacific oceans, the natives of thia
country, the original inhabitants of ancient
Greece, and many other countries of anti
quity, when firft visited by civilized people,
knew 110 other means of subsistence than hui}t
ing aud fiihing.
In this state tber have few ideas of private
property. Tiieii weapons, the game they
have taken ia the chcce, the fruits they have
gathered, and in general those things which
they immediately occupy, are the only objtfts
to which they claim an exdulWr right. The
idea of personal appropriation is formed only
by the progreifive improvement of manners.
Wen, in this stage of society, depend wholly
nponthe success of hunting and fitting, and
those fruits and vegetables which the earth
produces withoflt culture for theii subsistence
—when these fail, they are reduced to the
moil fatal extremity. An unfavorable sea.
son, a dearth among the animals, and the
ftratagertls of a neighboring enemy, may op
preft them with all the miseries (if pinching
neceflity. tt is to the famines which have
taken place in confequente of these evils, that
we mat afctibe the practice of devouring one
an6ther, which has been found to prevail
among savage nations Fear and wans, ex
cept the thirst for revenge, are the only springs
of aftioft in the savage state—bunting and
war are their thief employments. Surround
ed by dafigfers on every side—exposed to tl e
rapacity of ravenousbeafts on the one hand,
and hostile neighbors on the other, the favsge
is kept in perpetual alarm—The peculiar
imperfections of the savage (late—the want
of known and acknowledged laws—of a com
mon judge to adjnft the differences that may
k'ife, and of authority to enforce those equi
table decisions 6f nature and reason, to whict
even savages are competent, cherilhes tli«
feed of contention, and multiplies the num.
ber of wars. The constant call for war, tb<
growing scarcity of game, and confequeni
difficulty of the chace, mult netefTarily ex
cite their ingenuity and improve their dexte
rity ih the invention and u(e of their wea
pons. As their numbers increase as th'eir ih'
tercourfe with each other becomes more Ire.
qbent, and their ideas expand, their wantj:
multiply—new arts become neceiTary., an<
more provlfiort is requisite than their ordinary
sources of supply will furnifh. Expericnci
would soon teach them that foriis animals ar<
superior to others, in delicacy, in flavor, am
in nutritive virtue—they would Toon lean
also to diftingoilh the trainable from the fe
rOcioos, the gregarious from the mUre folita
ty; these they would collect and tame—the;
would erefl enclosures to prevent their war.
derirtg, to distinguish them from others, am
designate therrt as their own. Thus by de
grees they would exchange the hunter'? so
the pastoral life, and divert their care fro"
the chace t6 their flocks. In every step 0
this progrelfion new wants arise, new arts&r
invented, and every social improvemen
makes proportional advances. Innumerabl
causes cbntribute to the improvement an
progre/s of the pastoral life. The greate
certainty and abundance of subsistence it fui
nifhes—the easy means of procuring it—th
facility of guarding more eflfeftuallv again
the evils of famine, and the leisure it afibrd:
render intercourse with each other more fr<
quent and more desirable, and mature an
strengthen their social difpoiitions.
The neceftity of being in the neighbourhoo
of springs and rivers—the extraotdinary fei
tility of pa ticulat spots of earth, or the sea
of enemies, may have firft suggested the idc
of a permanent residence- The accident;
di r Covery of the ififiu'ence of the refufe at
filth of their hovel.s in refiefh'ng a barren (
exhaufled foil, and In increaluig ahd prefer'
ing the fertility of a new one, with fomc a
tempts to cultivate and rear those plan
which experience had taught them we
wholesome and nourishing, may have ipfen:
bly brought them froiti pasturage to agricv
ture.
Thisis the foundation of civil fociety—ai
until this takes place, society canriot be fa
to exist. This is tbe natural order of
gradations by which a nation advances fro
rudeness to refinement, when left to the 11
pulse of its own genius, and the ordina
course of things. Accidental causes diftu
1 this progress. A nation is sometimes, by t
force of particular circuraftauces, bra 14immediately fro.n bunting to agriculture—
Thi» leeras to ha»e been tlie cafe with tiie
.ancle,it Greelcs and tlie Peruvians. Other*,
in a certain of their progrellion, praftile
fouic-thing that belong to every state ol ini
provejjAenT, without taking a cltara{hr lr-oni
either—This f r>pens generally wl.en the
tranlitiort it f ; from one |.erind ot im
provement 10 another. Tlie progress or nar
nont in.refine.-rnr li by no mea's equal; a
combination of natui al and moral causes may
accele-ate or retard thjir advancement —
.V favorable climate, a genial foil, a healthy
atmnfijlieve, rapid population, iecurity from
invasion, and domeltic peace, flatten their
progrefi i i improvement—while, on the con
trary, circuniftai ces the leverfeof the le have
an oppofi'c effect.
Again, the neighborhood of an improved
and focia! people—frequent and friendly in
tercourse with them—connections by mar
riage, by treaty and alliance—a mutual com
munication of favors and exchange of com
modities—and efpecia-lly all exertions made
directly for this purpofo, fcften the native fe
rocity of tlieir temper—humanize their affec
tions— cxc re the tender movements of the
foul, and render them fulceptible of liberal
fentimcr.ts and delicate fenlations —inspire
them with a taste tor focietv, and greatly ac
celerate the progress of national refine;
ment.
From tail fuojeft we learn, ift. Thar the
civilization of a lavage nation may be greatly
accelerated by the concurrence of foreign
causes—and 2d. That all attempts for this
purpose, (hould !>e conformable to the natural
order and progress of society.
fSOM A LATE IRISH PAPER,
CURIOUS LETTER.
•* fr' 1 ' 1 '
f The following letter was found, two months
ago, in a porter-house, and we give it to
9ur readers as a curiosity.l
My Dtct Mr. Prii
I ME a very plane man, I hav no lattin and
vene litiel English, tho I can tauke Irish
as fade as any man in Munfter, excep my
wif, \fcho tobe sure can tauke me def; and
afterwards tauke onn til! line tired of hear
ing hur. Eur tlio lme not booklarrid, yet fa
ther Tedy O'Rorke, who is a deepe fkollard,
offten tells me, when lme giving him a jorum
of whiJkey punchy that tholme ignorent, yet
1 hav a goode undurftandirig. But if this be
aule blarny, and if I have no undurftanding
at aule,,this needs nat hindor me from riting
abaute poll/ticks, becaife this is a thing that
every bodie undurftands. But it is time for
me to be after t'elling you what it is I mane.
The society of United Irish men are fartinlv
mity fine peeple ; they can't but noe every
thing,for they hav amung urn aule
aturnits, and bruers, and fteymakurs, and
dotfturs, aud grand jontlemen, who ware for
merly j)arlament men, and, if they ware able
to by burroes, wud be the feme agen;.and
they hav likewevs amung um, pieefts, and
profpiterion miniflurs, and etfeeifts, and aule
the othur religions in the kindom. Now t!.is
society t-ls us that the Frenlhe revoluihon is
the mod charmin, vartuous, noble biznKle
that the wnrld ever fawe, anil that weaut to
lmiteteit as fade as we can. But on the
othur hand, ther ere toppin bookmakers who
five re that it is the mod abominable, hellilh
worke that ever was done sense Addem was
criftened, and that if we attemt any fucli
thing, we fliall deflrey aule Irelcmd, and what
is worfer, diilroy ourselves Now by the velf
ment, these grete peeple bodder me so, by
their palauvering on both fides, that I don't
noe what to think of it, at all at all; and
tiierefoar I lend you my own thaiits about
the fubjetf—l thinks then that ten years is
littei enuff for giving the Frenihe revoluthon
a 'are trie]. It we finde in the yeare 1800
that it has broat to the Frenfhmen, riches,
and honor, and happynefs, and all that, then
in the name of the blefiit virgin, let us aule
drawe our fpedes, and flautn, and fhilelier,
and hav a grand bodderation of our aun. But
iff we fee that it has made the Frenfhmen poor
and infimous, andwiket, then lett us remare
snug, and pafible, and content ourselves with
and singing trezon, and drink
ing rebelion, jest to fho that we are breve
Irish boys,but not carry.the joak any farthur.
In the mane time, until that hapy yeer lha]
come, in which we may pofibly have the ple
fure of cuting one anoders troats, let us be in
duftrus, and ern a grete dele of money, and
save more. For tho England, to be fhure, is
no mach for us, vet in cafe of a war wid hur,
we (hud want sum money.—War is like a
lawfhute ; and I know, to my grief, what's
lawlhute is, for I was almost ruind by gain
ing a cauzt agairift a gossip of mine,that rhet
ed me ; but the devel (hall have all mv gof
fups, men, wimen, and childrin, befoar 1 go
to law with one of um agen. War requires
money as bad as a lawlhute: withoute mo
ney our generuls and cornits, and granny
deers wood'nt fire ; without mony our preefts
wood'nt prey us out of purgaturry, when we
weie kilt; nay, our drummors wood no moar
rattel their fliks without mony, tlmn Coun
cilor O'Curran,. or Counfillor O'Drifcol wood
rattel their tungs without their hire. When
we hav got mony, then wil be the time to in
vaide Englond, take Lunnon, bring it hoam
with lis, and bild it in Belfaft. My deer cou
trymen, every one of yon noes parfitlv, that
you are a wize nafhion ; therefoar, my sweet
duels, take a fool's advice, and be quiet.
I am, my deer printur, your farveut, to
cummand til deth.
PATRICK O'FL AHERTY.
itthhoiy, near Tiperairy,
Cf gm the fvj), 1792.
Foreign Intelligence.
F R A N C E.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
March 19.
THE minilters for the home de
part ment laid before the conventi
on feveial papers refpetfting the dis
turbances which broke out lately in
the departments of La Vendee, La
Loire, Inferienre, &c. referred to
the committee of general fafety.
The minilter for foreign affairs
announced, that several
the population of which pnioiinttd
to forty"or forty-five thonfand per
sons, had exprefled a defite to be
united to the French republic.
Julien moved, that all those who
had been guilty of profanation in
churches ihould be profecuied be
fore the tribunals. — Decreed.
The admiuiftrators of tiie dillrift
of Vendee informed tlie convention,
that being threatened by a body of
rebels, they had called forth tlie
national guards of their diflrift, to
the number of from two to three
hundred men.
The municipal officers ofßochelle
announced, that inflead of 240 vo
lunteers which that place ought to
furnifli, 263 had offered them.felvfs
for the defence of their country;
they added, that the patriotic gifts
already received, amounted to for
ty fix millions, in gold, silver, or
aflignats, and that the women were
bringing in their rings, bracelets
and other jewels. The convent jor
ordered, that honorable mention
should be made in their journals of
this patriotic spirit.
Different bodies of. new raised vo
lunteers filed off through the hall
in the couife of this fitting ; and
swore to live free or die, amidst the
acclamations of the convention.
March 20
A letter from ihe commiflioneis
in the department of Mont Blanc,
announced two advantages gained
by the French troops. They had
taken an important port: in the low
er Alps, where the Piedmontefe loft
27 prisoners. The other affair took
place at 1 he bottom of Mount-Cenis >
from which the Piedmoniefe were
dislodged, with the loss of 30 men
killed.
The minister for foreign affairs
requefled the Convention to take
into consideration the state of the
French who are in Spain and who
he said were fubjeded to the molt
croel proscription.—The Conventi
on ordered the diplomatic commit
tee to give in, daring the fitting,
a report on the measures to be pur
fned for affording protetfion to the
French in foreign countries.
Letter from a CommiJJioner in Belgi
um, to Saiangron, a member of the
Convention.
" Bruflels, March 18.
" Good news.my dear Salangron !
Dumourier for two days has been
butchering the Auftrians and their
cavalry. I hope my next letter will
be dated from Liege. A consider
able force is arrived here from the
north to guard the Belgian towns.
(Signed) " GOSSUIN."
ANDERNACH, (Ger.) March 16.
Since morning, we have heard a
heavy cannonade, which appears to
have proceeded from the environs
of Mentz. All ihe boatmen who
arrive here assure us, that a nume
rous body of PruiTian troops crofled
the Rhine on the 9th inft. near St.
Goar, to cut off all communication
on that fide between the French and
the city of Mentz.
H A G (J E, March 22
Lafl night dispatches were receiv
ed by their High Mightinesses fro.n
the Prince of HefTe Caffel, Governor
of Maeitricht, dated March 20th,
from which we learn, that a 1110 ft
bloody & decisive battle was fought
011 Monday the 18th inft. between
the Austrian army, headed by the
Generalimmo Prince of Saxe Co
bourg, and the French forces un
der the command of Gen. Dumou
rier.
*1 he following are the particulars
which have transpired refpedlirio
this important event : ' °
Qothe 17th Jnftai.t the I'rench
394
drove the AuArians from Tirele
mont, after a nioft heroic refinance,
and with very coriliderable loss.
F1 lifted with this success, Gen.
Duniourier made preparations 10
attack the Auftriaus, on ilie ißlh,
between Landen and Dormel, at
the dift.jnce of fix Englifli miles from
St. Tron, where the Imperial Royal
armies had iheir head quarters. —
The attack commenced at seven
o'clock in the morning, and conti
nued, with the molt dreadful daugh
ter, until half after five in the after
noon, when, through the fupetior
manoeuvres of the Aiiftrians,
and the cnnfnmmaie skill and intre
pid gallantry of the Prince of Saxy
Cobourg, Count de Clairfayt, the
the Archduke Ch.irles, the Prince
of Wurtemberg, and other Imperial
Generals, and the unexpe«fied .arri
val of a corps of Austrian Cuirafliers,
Huffitrj, Challeurs and Dragoons,
t he ranks of the French werebtoke
through from all quarters, and the
latter obliged to take flight, and
leave the Auftriaus mailers of the
field.
Clairfayt and the Archduke
Charles performed prodigies of va
lour, and pursued the French fugi
tives, thousands of whom were cut
111 pieces}
The battle of Landen will form
an epoch in ihe annals of history,
, being a decisive pitched en
, tnull be followed by the
immediate evacuation of the Austri
an Netherlands.
The French fdnght like lions,
but their desperate fury, which.
„ pierced twice through the left wing
of the Imperialists, could not avail
again ft the superior of the
Auftrians.
The Imperial arhl'y broke irp in
the morning of the 19th, tro pursue "
t heir glorious career,-and it being
impoilible the French dispersed "
hosts to rally,-the finaH-corps head
ed by Damourier, which made iu
retreat to Louvain, will be cot off,
and the Aufttians nvuft by thisrinfe _
be matters of Bruflels. The Nati
onal<Guards, to the number of
- 70,000 men, are drawing together,
but having neither djfcipline nor
»i»rder auixxog them, they 111 uft JOOll
-fall vitXims tq their irrefiftable con
querors.
Gen. Beaulieu is before Dinaut,
a few leagues from Namnr, and has
rendered himfelf mailer of Laßoche
and Rochefort, where the French
furtained a loss of upwards of 3,000
men.
Letter frem,the Governor of WiU'ttfm
fladrti their High Mightiness.
High and Mighty Lords,
" I have the honor to report to
your High Miglitinefles, that I have
been inverted by the French troops,
since the 23d of February last. On
the 20th, at five o'clock at night,
one Berneron, calling hiinfelf Camp
Marefchal in the pretended Repub
lic of France, sent ine a summons,
to which I an!were# in writing,
Ti far from intending togiveupthe
place which was entrusted to me,
1 should defend it as a mnn of ho
nor." Accordingly on the next
day, about y o'clock in the morning,
the enemy commenced a very lively
bombardment of this fortrefs; at
tacked it, at the fame time, with
red hot balls: bombs, and grenades.
This latted, with the interval of
feme moments, until the 9th of this
month, when, at it o'clock in the
morning, I received a ferond sum
mons. to which I gave again my re
fufal in writing. Upon this refu
fal, the cannonade recommenced in
the nioft violent manner, and it Con
tinued, at intervals, till this mo
ment, 10 o clock in the morning,
when 1 perceived that the enemy
had retired. I sent diretfly a de
tachment, which found the batteries
of the enemy abandoned, with fomc
cannon, two mortars, and a great
quantity of amunition and siege u
tensils. 1 have had the whole trans
ported into the town.
" High arid Mighty Lords,
" I cannot fuffic'iently praise the
condutfi of the brave gari ifon, which
is under my orders, as well as that
of the Burgefles. The town has
fuffered much. There is not one
house, which it not damaged by the
bullets of the enemy, I (hall have
ilie honor to rend yeupkl.k .
nefles a more detailed report '
ring my lei/ lo Uie
w ,he lieutenant 0 f .I' I*"'.1*"'.
®ent of Saxe Goth., Efi»
er ol the above, (bail baie ,t j"'
nor to make to your hi.»K Ck *"
«»«..
Holfte.n, ol the ,egi Hlei „„/) * f
mette, fcrved as volume,! /
the siege of the town and r
ed ihemfelves in a n.ar. ner
does them much honor." ' * C "
LO NOON, March j
(■eneral Buucjielaar, i|, e ' .
commander at WilJiamJUdt
the 68th year of bis age.
Col ut ,e| 1 ailetoa has offered ,
ral,e a re-june,,, „f |; ght Wva | | to
Major Hai,gp, has made a '
sal 10 government, ,a,her J J '
gular nature, to raise a corps nf J,!
1 among the ccnvit'ts He l
received his answer, ,hat at
government can giv c 110 count#
nance to his application
Commerce. 1., the reign of Eli
z f«h )I Rela r geft V e(leli„ th e^;
°. P o ® l ' was olll y 40 tons Li,r
then, and the tonnage of its W |, o ] e
trade no more than |ij, ~. 1
year 1766, the people of Liver,, oul
had 400 velfels, and their aveLe
burthen was IJO tons. The accn
mulation of two centuries via®;,,
the proportion of 269 to t.
Can n be be!ieved-n', ]mr)lln>r
lately pubblhed a canting proc'a
.nation at Brussels, expreflfite ofthe
deeply in.prefled (enfethe National
Convention of France had of t| e
prpphane insults which had been
offered to the Belgic places of wor-
Hup . What a different kind of
language iliis-is ;o that which he
held out when advancing towards
the Dutch territory.
• Th * de jV' en *' ho have poured
into Dunkirk, Calais, &c. from the
French armies, »rc <« w „f e( , (,
foipe to be no other than the Sais
Culottes, which it •_
TTnUaiVaeVr ai--crrulTe Is. "
Qnere, Did not the Sans Culottes
dilband themselves, atid afterwards
the cunning general makes a merit
of doing that which was already
done to his hands, or how came the
deserters in queflion pnffeffed of
arms, and above all artillery ! It
ihould appear, cowards and knaves
as they were, that he difmifl'ed them
with all the honor s of war !
I he French papeis of the ijth
and 16th inft. ai e entirely silent re
fpedling any capture of vellels. We
may therefore conclude ihat the re
port of three of our East Indiamen
having fallen into t heir handsis un
founded ; for they would not have
been flow in announcing luch a:i
event.
The conquest of Holland, in at
tempting which the French have
loft the flower of their army, and
the whole of their fpirir, was pro
iwifed in t heir Convention by Ifnard
exadly in these terms, " Jnflcrdam
eft a la vsilie d'ouvritr fa porta a
Dumuuricr." It was in the fitting
of Monday, the r ith inft. that these
ever memorable words were used.
Two Provincial regiments are to
be railed in America, viz. One in
Nova-Scotia—Colonel — Gov. Went
vrorth—Lt. Col. Boide, and Major
Kearnez. One in New-Bi onfwick
—Col.—Gov. Carlton, Lt. Col. Ro
binfun, an American gentleman —
Major, Murray. They are to be in
service, in the absence of the regu
lar troops, who are ordered to the
Weft-Indies.
The Fox frigate of 36 guns, is loft
on the Gunfleet (and in the Swin.
MARCH 26.
The Englilh fleet goes our with
lingular advantage in point of fi
nals and manoeuvring, the enemy s
(hips being wholly officeied with
captains and mates of merchantmen,
who may no doubt be able naviga
tors, hot certainly totally ignorant
of military tatftics ; besides, want
of proper subordination in their
fleet, is a mill-stone about ilieir
neck, which niuft inevitably destroy
thent.
We have accounts from Jerley,
as iate as Friday, which (late, that
no descent on these islands had then
been attempted.
The force the 1 (fenders have to
oppose to an invading enemy, confilhof two regiments of foot, inde
pendent companies, and invalids,at
lealt, equal to n third, a tolerable
train of art'illery, and a militia,
comprehending the whole of the
inhabitant* able to bear arms.
The force destined to adt against
them, is laid to consist ' of 30,000
troops of the line and volunceer».
The following petition was pre-
Tented to the King at the levee, on
Wednesday last, by Lord Peire,&c.
and molt graciously received.
"To the King's mojl excellent majcfty,
ii The humble address of the Ca
kholic Peers, Clergy and Common
ers of Great-Britain.
<< iloft gracious sovereign,
" We, your majelly's dutiful and
loyal fubjeds, the Catholic peers,
clergy,and commoners of your king
dom of Great Britain, beg leave to
approach your royal presence, at a
lime when the disastrous events in
a neighboring kingdom have nearly
involved all Europe in the calami
lies of a war, to allure your majeity
of our molt loyal and unfeigned at
tachnient to your majesty's person,
crown and dignity, to the conftitu
lion of our country, and of our ut
ter abhorrence of all principles sub
verfive of older and government
and tending to promote anarch'
and confufion.
" Deep!} (enfible ofihe manifold
blefiings we enjoy under the cle
mency of your inajefty's govern
ment ; attached by new ties of gra
titude and affeiSion to our country
by the favor whiyh the legiflatttre
has lately conferred on ns, we have
(till to lament that the delicacy of
our firuation leaves us no other
means ot manifelting our zeal to
your majefty,and our withes to serve
our country, except the sincere as
surances that we (hall ever be ready,
in oar refpc<fiive liquations, with
our lives and fortunes to co operate
With our fellow subjects, in the de
fence and support of your inajefty's
person and the conftivuiu,,,
realms an > manner which your
„-.jelty s government lhall deem ex
pedient."
GENERAL DUMaURIER'
Was bom at Cambrai, and has attained the
fifty-fifth year of his age. His father enjoyed
the post of Regulating; CommifTary iti that
City, and had luificient interelt to place his
son, now Commander iti Chief of the Northern
Army, in a Royal Military School of Artillery,
—an art in which he riiuinguifned hinifelf so
eiliftualiy, and made such a progress, as very
early to attain high Military Rank. At the
battle of Crevelt, where he had already the
rank of Field-Oißcer, he received seventeen
wounds, by one of which he loft a finger joint.
He was afterwards, in i763,Quartermafter
General of the Army in Corsica, commanded
by General Marbeof.
In the sequel, he was promoted to the de
gree of Major-General-Commandant at Cher
bo«rg, under the orders of the Duke de Reve
ron and d'Harcourt. When Louis XVlth.
visited Cherbourg, the Monarch teftified his
efteern to the Commandant, by prelenting him
with a superb fnuff-box, ornamented with his
portrait, and enriched with magnificent dia-
monds..
Previously to the commencement of the
French Revolutions, and in the course of his
military advancement, he wa's several times
charged with political and military negotia
tions abroad. Among others, he received
from the French Ministry the appointment of
Secretary to the Baron de Bi eteuil, in an ex
traordinary embalTy.
AMERICA.
KINGSTON, (Jamaica) April 6.
Tfce naval force at the Cape conlifts of two
ships of the line. A small frigate is at Cape
Tiburon.
In the Hnufe of Commons on the iorh of
Feb. Mr. Lambton moved to add:efs hisMa
jefty, to oider to be laid before the house a
copy of a treaty, which he under flood to have
been entered into between the Emperor, the
King of Pruflia, and Great-Britain, in Janu
ary last ; and in reply, Mr. Secretary Dundas
declared, that he knew of no such treaty
being in existence.
It is worthy of remark that this treaty,
which is not in existence, is given by the
French Convention as one of their reasons for
declaring war.
" Insurance on goods and veiTels from London
V* this island has been effe&ed at five guineas
,£er cent. Twenty-five per cent, is demand
ed here on gouds or veflels to and from Ame
rica^
BRIDGETOWN (B»r*ad«es) April 13.
On Wednesday last arrived here Vicr Ad
miral Sir John Laforey, in his Majefty'sfhip
of war the Trusty ; and failed again yesterday
afternoon, accompanied by the Nautilus (loop
cf war, &c. fcrc.
PITTSBURG H, April 27.
FROM A CoRR fiS/ONDENT.
The order and economy of the arniy dc
ferves great praile ; ftlence, induftty, and
discipline. Every hiornin(i after parade at
to e'ploek, the troops arp drawn out to an
eminence at some dtftance IVom the encamp
ment, to fire at targets ; the mulketry and
riflemen; with premiums for the firft, se
cond, and third best (hots.
The fliooting of the mulketry aftoniftied
me ; and our hunters may undervalue the re
gular troops, as marksmen, but I have been
at ihooting matches in the country, and have
never ifeen better shots by rifles, than on this
occasion.
The appearance of the fojdiery is good, as
to dress,. health, &:c. The cavalry are in
good plight ; and disciplined to leap overob
ftacles, and afccnd and descend heights at a
gallop.
The general seems to J|ave set his heart,
on having the army in good state ; and being
able to cfface our former defeats, by a signal
revenge upon the enemy. Xt nuift mortify
him inuclij as it does me, to think that after
all this, we 9t e to have the bubble of a treaty,
these troops discharged, and war again in a
ftort time. • . - .
PETERSBURG, (Virg.) Msy 1
Extract of a letter from Norfolk, to the Editors,
dated April 28.
" An Englilh vessel from the Weft Indies
was on Saturday taken by a French frigate
off the Capes—(he had 65 puncheons' of rum
on board—the vefl'el was deltioyed—theCap
tain is at present in Hampton. Several yep
fels have been brought too and chafed near
the Capes."
F AYETTEVILLE, Aprifgo.
A letter from Wilmington lays, 44 A small
French privateer, manned chiefly by Ameri
cans, has taken a itation off the entrance of
our harbor., for the purpose of capturing all
the Briiiih velTels which are making for or
failing from this port; one of the latter was
taken a few days finte, and carricd into
Gharlellon."
N E W-Y O R K, May 4-
ExtraSl oja'letter Jrom a GentUmurt in Brijlcl, to
his friend in this city, dated March 13.
44 The present state of this kingdom h tru
ly deplorable; owing to vast quantities ot
PATER in circulation here, and the infufTiticn
ey of specie to redeem it: The bare idea of
a war w th France before the declaration of
it took place, occasioned failures in this city,
and London to the amount of near six mil-
and three of the 1110 ft eminent mcr
chantslh this city have put an end to their
exigence, after being reduced from affluence
to beggary and want.—There has also seve
ral ..banJcs ffnt ; tha JVT'
Bank (a city in Wales) has {lopped ; and you
cannot get cash for even a Jive guinea note ; and
there fcerns to be no confidence fiom man to
man."
On Wec'nefday the firfl instant, was held
the {Seventh. annual Commencement of Co-*
LUMMA College.—After the performance of
the excerciles of the day, the degree of Ba
chelor of Arts was conferred on the following
Gentlemen :
Edwaid W. Laight, James Paiker, Valentine
Peters, Philip Milledoler, G<orge Clinton,
Jonathan Pear fee, George Eat: ker, Thomas R.
Smith, Elias B. Woodward, Abraham Ogden,
Samuel Gilford, William Cutting, Henry iMaf
terton, Robert 15. Norton, James Stringham,
John Biouwer, Gilbert Smith, Robert Heaton,
John J. Johnson, Henry Ludlow, Charles D.
Goold, Cornelius Van Home, Thomas Thomp
son, John Scher merhorn, Cornelius Decker.
And also on S.imuel Jones, oi the city of New-
Yoik, and John Nicoil, of New-Haven, Con
necticut.
The? degree of Matter of Arts, was conferred
on David S. Bogart, and John Ludlow, of the
city of New-Yoik, and Marmadukc Earl, of
Connecticut, all alumni of this college.
The degree of Doctor of Laws, was conferred
on Ebenezei Dibble, of Connc&icut.
Frcm the Star a Daily Paper publijhcd in Charlef
ion South-Carolina—April 26—by MeJJrs. Caicy
and Harrifon.
Me-ssrs. Printers,
I beg of you to infer: in your paper, the fol
lowing account, received on Wcdncfday, by the
brig Fanny, from the best authority :
Bourdeaux, February 28, 1793.
M T HAVE only to add, the taking of Mae-
JL ftrichi and Breda, by Gencial Dumourier,
aud a confideiable advantage gained by General
Biron over the combined forces of Auftiia and
Piedmont, in Savoy."
With regard to the report inserted in the D»i
ly Adveitiler of the 25th inft. that u the num
*' bcrol British feanun detained by embargo
" in the French ports has been exceedingly mif
-11 rffrefenied 111 iome of the prints, having been
«! ftaied at 6060" &c.
I beg also of you to present to the public the
following paragraph of an official letter writ
ten 10 me by citizen Southonax, civil commifla
ry of »be French republic at St. Domingo.
St. Mark's. March 16,1793.
a d Year oj the French Republic-
" Thecruifen in the European leal arc in the
uttnofll activity ; already from five Jo fix hun
dred Dutch and British fhipi, and from seven
to eight tboufand fcamcn, have been either cap
tured or detained in the French ports. So touch
for the beginning !"
The citizen consul M. A. B. MANGOURIT.
[M Englijk " Star" kaj latelyJhone withfo
ter.igr.anl an afpift on French ajfiin, at
-395
Philadelphia, May 11.
The PitSfturgh.GazetM oftlie 4th instant,
informs, that the arniv moved from its winter
quartars at Legion vilie, the 30th April.
The Tame Gazette contains a refpeflful and
complimentary Address to Major-General
Wayjjx, aire! his to the fame.
By a late decree of the National Conven
tion," it appears that all the French ports are
to lie. open so the vefiels of the United States,
paying the fame duties as are paid by French
velTels.
A paragraph in the (London) Public Ledger
rcce ived by tiie Galen, arrived
at Eofton, informs, that " it is said that
>Gin. TJuinourier has sent orders to Oftendfor
all the vessels in that port to quit it immedi
ately, and fait to Dunkirk."
General Valence, according to the above
paper, was not killed, but i'everely wounded,
in the late battle with the combined army.
The Prcfident of the United States has hcen
pleafrd »o recognize the appointment of Pkintas
Bond, Esq. as Conful-Ger.eral from his Bntapnic
Majcfty, within the middle and southern States
of America. Dunlap's paper.
Letters from Barbadoes inform, that on the
12th April, the Trusty, of 50 guns, Admiral
Laforev, and the La Blanche and Nautilus fri
gates, with transports and 1200 troops, under
the command of Gen. Cuyjcr, failed from Bar
badoes for Tobago, on which day, previous to
their failing, an embargo was laid on the vessels
in Barbadoes. On the 16th April, intelligence
being received of the Island of Tobago being
captured, tlie embargo was taken off.
On the 10th, the packet from England had
arrived, and brought intelligence, that Admiral
Gardiner, with eight (hips of the line, and a
body of troops, had failed two
days before the packet, for the Weft-Indies, and
that it was thought Martinique or St. Lucia was
ihd okje£l of. attack ; a Imall Frencti privateer
of 8 guns was taken by Admiral Laforey, and'
sent to Dominique. Three privateers were
fitting out in Barbadoesto cruize for some French
Guintemen, bound to Tobago, of whose failing
from Africa, they had received intelligence.
A number of artists and manufacturers ar
rivedhere in the ship Glasgow, from Green
ock, »nd have engaged with the directors of
the nitioual manufactory at the town of Pa
terfoi.
Gufhe 23d of March the Lord Lieutenant
of Irtland gave his assent to an a<st lor faci
litating the fade and intercourse between
that kingdom and the United States of Ame
rica.
A Steer, the property of Jacob Hiltzheimer,
Esq. low 5 year 5 months old, weighed at
Mr. Penrofe's hay-scales on the sth May,
1792, 2356 pounds, and yesterday being again
weighed at the fame scales turned out 2576
PP£!,[ls.
Two Cruisers were seen on the 7th inflant
off the Capes, by Capt. Oakes who arrived
here from Boftoti—he fuppoles they aie French
—One was a frigate of 32 or 36 guns.
A New-Yorfc pilot saw a ship of war off
i Satiiy-Hook, which he supposed to be an £n
f glift frigate.
On the Bth of March last, the French Na
tional Convention aboliihed imprifomnent for
debt and decreed that all aftnally ton
fined for debt in the republic Ihould be set at
liberty. From this law, however, are ex-
cepted all defaulters in public money.
Preparations are in forwardnefs for enlarg
ing the County court house to accommodate
the next Federal Legislature. The Southern
fide of the building is to be pulled down and
rebuilt 24 feet fbuth from its present fituatioj).
The feats will preserve the oval form, but
the Speaker's chair is to be removed to the
Weft fide of the House and the principal en
trance to the Hall of the House of Rerefenta
tives wilt be to the East and immediately op
polite the Speaker's feat. Ger.. Ad.
Boston, May 6.
ExtraEl of a letter from Newbury Port, to a gentle-
man in this town, 7aeived fuji Saturday
f* A veflel hasjuft arrived here in a 6 day
*irom Plymouth in England. The Capt. fays
it was currently reported, that Gen. Dumou
rier had got poflVflion of Amsterdam. He
has brought 110 papers later than the 2Jft of
March. Capt Hacket fays, the above news
was not received from any authority, but
coniidered in general as the news of the day ;
however, he thinks it certain the French have
been fuccefsful. Capt. Hsfcket also informs,
that the French and English fleets had failed,
and it was supposed for the Weft Indies, and
also that the French had captured three En
gliih Eaft-Indiamen."
We hear from Philadelphia, that a Oiip be
longing to Nexvburyport and bound to Liver
pod), having on board 3000 barrels flour, was
on Sunday lad burnt in the harbor of that ci
ty. The Captain is said to have perilhed in
the flames! !1
COMMUNICATIONS.
" WE ARE ONE."
This is the motto of the free and indepen
dent citizens of United America.
The union of the States was cemented by
the adoption of the New Constitution—that
palladium of our lives, liberties and property.
The Government firmed under this Con
ftitution,has been administered with wisdom,
honor and patriotic independence of spirit—
The evidence of this declaration is written
in the book of experience, and in the irrefifta
ble conviction of our senses—and every grate
ful, unprejudiced mind, rcjoices to add a vo
luntary acknowledgment of the benignAdif
ptcfation-. of a fuperintendirg Providence,
that gives to a happy people, t';e option cf
perpetuating totheiateflpofterity the bleillngs
of u peace, liberty and fafety."
The prefsnt is an eventful crifn—in what
an important situation is this country placed !
May w» be? wife to improve the price put
into our hand-—Separated from Europe, ai d
disentangled from it l ? politics—at peace wittl
all the world—•rivals "ncirce beckon
our Inips from every /hore—With our wifeffc
and be ft patriots at helm, wtr may defend on
their conducing our political and civil con
cerns on the best and found? It principles-—
neither awed by the restless among ourielves,
nor intimidated or cajoled by foreign powers
to swerve from the ftrifteft principles of na
tional honor, justice and neutraMty*—this line
of conduct tlet nuift, chey wiji pnrfue—nor
is there a genuine friend to the peace and
prosperity of the country, who is not firmiy
perfhaded of the truth of this afferti'-n.
Let a manly confidence then he reposed in
the SupremsExecutiyeof the United States—
the molnent their independency of conduct is
infringed upon, our security is loft. Pa ft ex
perience jullifies this confidence—and every
pofiible inducement that can affect the best
feelings of the patriot, conspires to give
energy to the injunction.
It is cot poflible that an enlightened Ame
rican fliould not feel interested in the freedom
and happitie's of mankind—We have experir
enced, and we enjoy too much, not to wish
that the nations of the earth less favorably
situated, ftould participate in the blessings of
a free and righteous government—but our
present situation is exactly what thole must
desire it to be, who anticipate similar enjoy
ments. Change the circumstances ot this
country—embarrass its government—destroy
the equrpoize of its neutrality and impartia
lity in the prefect calamitous war, and clouds
and darknels immediately impend.
The politics of some among us, are as wild
as their theories of government are absurd.
It is mod devoutly to be wilhed, that as this
country is happily placed in so remote a fla
tion from the scene of war and coni'ufioti, that
its government may not be diflurbed by any
extraneous or foreign influence—the intro
duction of principles lioftile to its existence—•
or by afl'ociations alien to the proper business
and impetus ofa constitutional adminUlration
of our affairs.
While the glow of beneveleriee warms the
bosom of every free American, let us ndt-Niif
t;ike the imprcfllons of a momentary entfiy
fiafm for the dictate; of wisdom, jufti.ce and
found policy. The days of anarchy are past—
aiid the line of conduct which the bcft and
mod permanent intcrefti of the United States
point out, is as plain as infallibility tan deli
neate it. Nothing can diverge more d reftly
from this line, than afl'ociations which have
n» possible relation to the (late of things ia
this country—however fa'utary they may be
in Europe.
" Knozvledge by time advance tf.ow and uife.
Turns every where its deep difcetning eyts;
Sees ii'hut bejel, and what ma\ yet be fit,
Concludes J rem loth, and bejl provide) for all."
The spirit of Liberty is to a people what a
virtuous disposition is to an individual.—lt con
sists in a well ordered mind. The hatred of go
vernment is as inconsistent with a just ferife of
liberty as the hatred of laws is with virtue.—
Liberty in short is reason. Government which
is the reason of the whole society is essential to
liberty ; Prejudice, pafljon, and frenzy on the
contrary are the causes and the fymptonvsof
slavery. We hear of men preaching down go
vernment and the laws, and they pretend greac
zeal for the cause of while they ad
dress themselves to the paflions. This however
is absurd, whenever a people are gross aijd weak
enough to believe the t2les which are always
propagating against government, and are rash
enough to fufpeft and hate it in corifcquence, the
spirit of liberty is gone fiom amon?; then). A
people thus yielding 'o their paflions can no
more pieferve their privileges than a man can
preserve his virtue who on every temptation
breaks away from the restraint of reason.
There has been a clamoring party ever since
there was a government to abuse—and such there
will be as long a* equal laws restrain inordinate
paflions.
PRQi LAM.trIOSS.
IF George may fend a proclamation,
To warn the people thro* the nation,
Sure Thomas should confine his caies,
To his own government affairs—
But if to give such edifls force,
State Heralds must come out of course ;
We may predict the time will come,
When George- in turn mujl echo Tom ;
Or dire confufion through the land,
May shew we're bound by rope of sand.—»
Thus in this globe's stupendous {hell,
Some fay that other planets dwell ;
Which when their motions well agree,
They move wiih wondVons harmony ;
But if ihofe little globe* col lise,
Adieu to amity and peace ;
The (hell i» crack'd by dire commotion,
And earthquakes i'nake the land and ocean.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at the PORTe/ PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Jesuit, Lamonr, St.Bartholoweivs
Sch'r John, Thomas, Barbadoes
Priendfhip, Oakes, Bifton
Crocker,
Mary,
PRICE OF STOCKS
6 |Kr Cer.U, a 6/»
3 per Cents, n/
Deferred, g,j
(ull ftirea Biok U, 8. z *prr ccm, prein
4i«cm
CIRCULAR LETTER,
or THE
HISTORICAL SOCIETY,
Rejptafully sJJrejJeJ to every CeatitMan oj Science
in the Continent and IJl&ndi of America.
Sin, . .
ASOCItTY has lately been mftuuted in this
State, called the Histoeical Sociitk ;
the piofcffcd defi*n of which is, to collets, pre
frrve aodcommunicate, tnaieriaU for a complete
htttory of this country, and accounts of all valu
able efforts of human ingenuity and industry,
ftom the beginning of it* fettlrment. In pur
suance of this plan, they have already amaiTcd »
large quantity of books, pamphlets and m?nu
fcripti; and ate still in search : A cata
logue of which will be printed for the tnlorma
tion of the public.
They have also encouraged the publication ol
a monthly pamphlet, in which is given the rcfult
of their enquiries, into the natural, political and
ecclesiastical history of this country. It is re
quested that you would contribute to us value
and importance, by attention to the articles an
nexed. The Society beg leave to depend on
your obliging answer to these heads of inquiry,
when leifureand opportunity will permit.
Your letters addressed, free of expense, to the
fubferiber, will be gratefully received, and duly
noticed in thg Society's poblications; and you
will have the facisfaftioit of contributing to the
general stock of knowledge, with which they
hope to entertain the public.
In the name, and by order of the Socicty,
JEREMY BELKNAP,
Corresponding Secretary.
JBoJlon, in Majfachu/etts, Nov. i, 179 1 .
Articles on which the Society requejl
information.
2. The time when your town or city was in
corporated ; its Indian name; when the Settle
ment began; whether it was interrupted, and
by what means; to what Colony or County it
wa» firft annexed ; and if there have been any
alterations, what they are, and when made.
2. The exploits, labours and fuffcrings of the
inhabitants in war; particular accounts of de
vastations, deaths, captivities and redemptions.
3. Divisions of your town or city in parishes
and precin&s, or- the ere&ion of new towns
within the former limits.
4. Time of gathering churches of every de
nomination ; names of the several Mini Iters;
the timesof their Tettlement, removal and death ;
and their age at the time of their death.
£. Biographical anecdotes of persons in your
town, or within your knowledge, who have
been remarkable for ingenuity, enterj>rife, lite
rature, or any other valuable accompliftiment;
an account of their literary productions, and if
poflible, copies ot them.
6. Topographical defcriptron t>f your tolivn
Or county, and it's vicinity ; mountains, rivers,
ponds, animals, vegetable productions ; re
markable falls, caverns, mineials, lionet, foffils,
pigments, medicinal and poisonous substances,
their ufesand antidotes.
7. The former and present state of cultiva
tion, and your thoughts on farther improve
ments, either in refpeft to agriculture, roads or
canals.
8. Monuments and relicks of the ancient In
dians ; number and present ilate of any remain
ing Indians among you.
9. Singular inftancesof longevity and fecun
dity from the firft settlement to the pre Cent time.
10. Observations on the weather, diseases,
and the influence of the climate, or of particular
situations, employments and aliments, especi
ally the effc&of spirituous liquors on the human
constitution.
ix. Accurate bills of mortality, fpecifying
ages and casualties, the proportion of births and
deaths, and the increase or decrease of popula
tion.
12. Accounts of manufactures and fifheries,
and thoughts on the farther improvement of
them.
13. Modes of education, private or public;
what encouragement is given to schools and
colleges, and what is done to advance literature;
whether you have a social library, what is the
number of books, and of what value.
14. What remarkable events have befallen
your state, county, town, or particular families
or persons, at any time.
P. S. The Coriefponding Members of this
Society are requested to transmit to the Corre.
fponding Secretary, any historical information
of which they may be poffelTed, refpe&ing any
part of the American Continent and Islands, to
gether with printed a£h and journals of Assem
blies and Conventions, whether civil or ecclesi
astical. And the Society will gratefully receive
from them and from all other persons whatever,
any books, pamphlets, manuscripts, maps or
plans which may be ufeful in forming an histori
cal coll<ttion—and any natural or artificial pro
ductions which may enlarge the Museum.
The Library and Museum are deposited in an
apartment of Faneuil Hall. Any fccrfon defiirous
of making a search among the books or manu
scripts, many have access to them under such re
gulations, as may be known by applying to any
one of the members.
Post-Road
TO THE GENESEE COUNTRY.
THE public are hereby informed, that the
Post-Road from Philadelphia to Reading,
is continued to Sunbury and Northumberland ;
thence up the Weft Branch of the Sufquehannah
as far as Licoming; thcnce to the Painted Poll
(in New-York. Hate, near the forks of the Tioga 1
thence to Bath (a town laid out on the Coho&or
Branch of the Tioga) thence to Williamlburg
at the forks of Gcnefee River, r
Letters for this new route will be Tent fron
the Philadelphia Pott-Office every Wednesday
morning, at eight o'clock, with the maif for
Reading.
A weekly mail will alio be carried from
Bethlehem to Wilfkefbarre, in the county of
Luzerne.
General Pojl-Cjfict, April 6, 1793.
Albany Glafs-Houfe.
Tie Proprietors tjtie Glafs-Manufaflory, under
tbe Firm of
M'CLALLEN, M'GREGOR and Co.
Bee leave to inform the public, that 1 heiy have
now brought their WINDOW-CLASS to
such peifeflion, as will be found, ®n comparrfon,
ta be equal, in quality, to the bed London
Crown Glass.
Having fixed their piicrs at a lower rate than
imported Glass, they are induced to believe, that
importations ot this article will be difcotiiinued,
in proportion as their works are extended.—
They propose to enlarge the scale of this bufi*
ness, and as the fuecefs of it will depend on the
patriotic support of the public, they beg leave to
solicit their friendly patronage in the pursuit of
a branch which will interest every lover of
Amek ican Manufactures.
All orders for Window-Glass, of anv fixe,
will be received at the Store of Rhodes and
MacGregor, No. 234, (Jueen-ftreet, New-
York, and at the Glass Wa'ehoufe, No. 48,
Market-ilreet, Albany, which will be punctually
attended to.
WANTED, fix smart active LADS, not
exceeding 16 years of age, to be indented as
Apprentices, and regularly inftru&ed in the
various branches of Glass-Making.
Also, three Window-Glass Makers, to whom
great encouragement will be given.
Mny i, i 793
Morse's Geography,
Revijed, corrected, and greatly enlarged, with many
additional M aps, well engraved.
In a few weeks wiM.be publilhed.,
Bv THOMAS and AN&fefcWS, F>uft'« Slatue,
No. 45, Newbury.Street, Button,
In Two Volumes, large Q&avo.
\ NEW Edition of the AMERICAN
GEOGRAPHY : Being the largest
and the best system of Giocr aphv evtr pub
lilhed : Or a complete GEOGRAPHY of (he
WORLD, brought down 10 the pi«fent time.
VN TWO PARTS.
I'N I n . —
The General Contents are—
PART I. — Ot Astronomy, as conne&edwith,
and introdu&ory to the fcieocc of Geography :
under this head will be given an account «f the
several astronomical fyftcms of the Work), and
a particular description of thetrue one. A table
of the diameters, periods, Sec. of tire several
Pianets in the solar system—an account tf tlie
Comets and fixed stars.
Of AfH*—its ufi: and -progiefi—
figure, magnitude and motion of the Eacth—
Bufttineo? iht ipher*—•Geographical circles—
Diwttions of the Earth into canes and eliftates
—methods of finding the latitude and
of placet from celeftiai obfcrv»tk>»(i—>Gbbcs,
and their use—with.a number of the mofl.ufe
ful and entertaining Geographical Problem and
Theorems—Maps, *t)d olheat
and cold—theory of the wind* add tides —iingth
of milti in dfffererit countries—natural divfions
Of the latth—account of the Cregerian or Sew
stile, &c.
America —Iu discovery by ColumbM—
general description of the Continent, in which is
a lengthy difcuflion of the question, Vhen,
whence, and by whom, was America firfl peo
pled ? With a long and entertaining acco«(tt of
the Indians,and the late discoveries on the nprth
weft coast, —North America—chrono
logical account of its discovery and settlements,
its divisions—Danish America, British
America, United States of America—
general description of them, including a biftory
of the late war, and many other ufefu! and en
tertaining matters. South America—its di
visions, particular dcfcription of its several pro
vinces and countries. West India Islands,
&c,
*** This part of the work will be illustrated
by maps of the count!res described, iron the
cot retted copies.
PART ll.—Containing every thing eflentiel
which is contained in the beflt and latest quarto
edition of Guthrie's and other British Geogra
phies, with fele&ions from celebrated naviga
tors, travellers and lefpe&able authors of other
nations, &.C.
Of Europe in genera]—its grand divisions,
particular geographical dcfcriptions of its fede
ral Kingdoms and Republics, &c. Of Asi a—
its situation, boundaries, general history, parti
cular dcfcriptions of its several divisions, &c.
Of Africa—its general history, boundaries,
grand divisions, &c. Aifo, new discoveries,
Terra Incognita, Geographical Table, alphabe
tically arranged—Chronological Table of re
markable events, discoveries and inventions, lift
of men of learning and genius, with other ufeful
miscellany.
* # * This part will also be i Flu An ted with
maps of the countries described.
TO THE PUBLIC.,
THE Author is sensible that the fiift edition
of his American Geography (which makes Part
I, of the above work) was in many iuiiances de
fe£live, in others erroneous, and in some offen
five. It has been his endeavour, as it was his
desire, in the present edition, to fupplv the defi
ciencies, correal the errors, and meliorate the
offenfive parts of the last. To aflift him in this
business, he has received many valuable commu
nications from the heads of department* iq the
general government, and from gentlfc-men of re
achability in the several states. The dejfrrip
tion of foreign countries (which compofeli Part
11. of the above work) has been carefully com
piled from the most approved writers on Geo
graphy, and ufeful information introduced from
the discoveries of the latest Navigators, Travel
lers, and refpedlable authors. Indeed, no pains
nOr expense have been spared to render this work
the moll complete, accurate, and ufeful qf any
ever offered to the public.
NEW TE AS.
IMPERIAL,HYSON&SGUCHONG
Oflhe very fitft qualit-y,Bndfciteft impbrtatro?)
fromCjoton, »i« New-York., iy mail,at
No. 19,
Tblfd, between Chefnat sjud Market Streets,
N. B. Afew IjoiHixij thtafavc HYSON forfait.
396
Jufl fublijhii,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
jit the Stone Houje, No. 41, Sauth Scwl-Strect,
A CASE,
Decided in the Supreme Court of the United
States, in which is difcufled the Question,
WHETHER A STATE IS LIABLE TO BE
SUED BY A PRIVATE CITIZEN OF
ANOTHER STATE*
Prrcc Half a Doliar.
Vinall's Arithmetic.
THE Second Edition of this work, with im
provements, will speedily be put 10 prek.
The rapid sale ot the fiift edition*, greatly be
yond the author's m. i\ fangun.e expr&auoßs,
encourages him to print a second edinon. He
intends to have it printed upon much better pa
per than the former, and with a new type.
Those BookCcllers who wish to take a num.
ber of copies in Iheets, are rtquefted to apply to
the author for particulars.
* 1006 Ofpies.
At a meeting of the School Comhittii,
The Committee, appointed to examine " The
Preceptor's Afliftant, or Student's Guide," being
a systematical treatise of Arithmetic, by John
Vinall, teacher of the Mathematics & Writ
ing, in Bolton, reported, thai they have attended
that frrvice, and are of opinion, chat the work
is executed with judgment, and is as well calcu
lated for the use of fchoolj, counting houses, and
private families, a« any of the Artie cofnpafs
that has hitherto been offered to-the public.
epsew
VoTid, That the Above report be accepted,
and iliat Mr. Vi»li beftirnillred with « copy
of it, whenever he dtfire it.
Copy of the Records. Attell,
CHARLES BULFINCH, Sec'ry.
The following character of the above work,
is given in the Review of the Majachufetts Ma
gazine, for Jan. 1793 :
" This is a very ufeful work, and is no ill
proof of the judgment and indtiftry of the author.
The rules are laid down with propriety, and
the examples annexed are fufficient for their tl
luftration. One part of the work derferves par
ticular commendation. We mean that which
the author stiles " Mercantile Arithmeticlt
occupies a confiderablc portion of his book, but
not more than its im-portauce will juftify. We
would recommend to the young Arithmetician
to pay a particular attention to this branch.
He wiH find its principles well explained. Ami
rtiould ire make himfelf master of rhem, lie will
always have reason to acknowledge his obliga
tion to the judicious and laborious author. We
cannot but congratulate the rifiag generation on
account of the many ufeful produ£lions which
have lately appeared; and in which their im
provement has been principally confuhed.—
Among those productions we mud place this
treatise of Arithmetic. We should be wanting
in justice to the author, should we not ac^ llOW '
ledge that his "work is in reality that which its
title imports—The Preceptor's Assistant,
or Student's Guide."
flttflint, M. t3.
District vf Penksy lvakia, to wit.
T> E IT REMEMBERED, That on
(Seal. J thirteenth clay of March, in
\ / the fieventeenth year of the Inctepeii
y dence of the United States of America,
Thomas Dobson, of the said Diftrift, hath de
posited in this Office, the Title of a Rook, the
Right whereof he claims as Proprietory iu the
words following, to wU. #
44 An Enquiry hori) fdr the Pvnifhment of Death
ct is necejfary in Pennsylvania. With Notes and
14 IHuflraticms. By William Bradford, Esq.
" To which is added, an Account of (he Gaol and
44 Penitentiary House oj Philadelphia, and of the
44 interior Management thereof. By Caleb
44 Lownes, of Philadelphia. If we enquire
44 into the Causes oj all human Corruptions, we
" fkall find that they proceed from the Impunity
14 tf Crimes, and not from the Moderation of Pu
-44 r.ifhmcnts Montefq.
In conformity to the Ast of the Coogrefs of
the United States, intituled, 44 An Ast for the
Encouragement of Learning, bv securing the
Copies of Maps, Charts and Books, to ihe Au
thors and Proprietors of such Copies, during the
Times therein mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk f>f the Diftrift of Permfylvania.
The above work is fold in Charlefien by
William Price Young : Richmond > by Archibald
Currie : Baltimore, by James Rice : NewYor-k,
by Thomas Allen : Boflon, by David Weft.
A noted covering Horse,
OF THE HUNTING BREED.
HE was imported from England in Novem
ber, fevcrueen hundred and eighty-fix, and
is now ten years old ; lie is a bright bay, with a
blaze,fifteen handsone inch high, is well form' 4,
has a great deal of bone and strength, and his
a£lion equal to any horse. His colts arc well
approved of in the different parts of the State
where he has flood, of which any perfbn inclined
to purchase can inform therofefoes.—Enquire
of the Printer.
February i(J, 1798.
PLANS
City of Washington,
Sold by the Books£lle*s,
DOBSON, CASEY, YOUNG, & CRUKSHANK.
TICKETS
In the FEDERAL CITY LOTTERY,
May be had at SAMUEL COOPER'S Ferry.
(pf The price of this Gazette is Three Dollars
per arrnr.m—One h*lj to be paid at the time offub
fcribing.
February sth, 1793.
I.C. A. A. A. S.
TO BE SOLD,
OF THi
D L/'
E Y the ■
PRESIDENT;./^D KIT „ Sl4fu
of 1
A Proclamation.
Vy HEREAS it appear., tha . a
V V war exists between
Sardinia G. Bnta,,,, and t l* Ur-ttd NeH>''
lands, of the one pa. t; and Fr«, lce ~fl
other—and the duty and hitereft „f 1 J
t«d States require, thar they ft*,],, , v , ,V" U
centy and good faith adopt and rrfl(
dust friendly and iurpartia!
ligerent powers. °®*
I HAVE therefore thought fit hv n-e
prefects, to declare the difpofi-inr' f\!
United States to observe the conduct ft
tliofe powers refpeftivelv , a
to eVhort ami warn the citijens of the i\ J
States carefully to avoid all acts a „d pr( J?
mgi whatfoerer, which mav i„ an , mai l.
tend to contravene such disposition
AND I DO hereby alfo-malce known tkr
*hofoever of the citizens of the Uniteaw
fl>all render hinifelf Irable tb punmt ', ,
forfeiture under the law Of natrons bv rj
mltting, aid„> g or abetting hoftilit>e7«S
any °f the fe.d powers, or by corryi™ ,° 0
of them these articles, which are dee.ned co
traband by the modern usage „f nations,,,;;']
hot receive the protection of the United
States against such punilhntent or forfeiture
and'farther, that I have-given inftn,ft; om ;
those officers, to whom it belongs, to raole
profecutionj to b» in®tuted against all
sons, who (hall, within the cognizance ol the
Courts of the United States, violate the '»
of nations, witb refpeft to the powtft »
\Var, Or any of fhem.
IN TESTIMONY whereof, 11, 3vt no _
fed the Sea! of the Uhited States of
America tt> he affixed tn theft pre.
fents, and signed the fame »ith my
hand. Done at the City of Hilade!.
pVm, the twerrty-fecond ftiy df April
V ' > one thousand seven hundred ami nine!
ty-three, audofithe independents at
the (Jnited States «f America the 4.
venteenth.
G. Washington.
By the President,
TtKjferrsKsfty,
JUST eJVIJSHES,
By xWtftas Dobfon,
BeoWeilir, at- the Stohi-Vrnfi, 'rh » '
f'HILAfitI.J'HIA, "4
VOLUME VIII, at
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
or, a DICTIONARY ot ARTS,SCIENCES,
and MISCELLANEOUS LITKRATUR£,
On a Plan entirgl\ new :
BY WHICH
The Different SCIENCES and ARTS
are di-gelled into the Form o'( Diftinft,
TREATISES .or SYSTEMS:
TH f S VOLUME COKT AI N 5
AN Account of tlic of Good Hope,
Grafting, Universal Grammar, Graffrs,
Greece, Greenland, Guam, Guinea, Ginnery,
Happinof&, Harmony, Heat, Hepjne-Arr, flt
r aid i y, Hi n dtjft an, H\ p popota n» us,H iftory
HoHand, Borfc, HorfemanAlip, Hottentots,
Hunting, Husbandry, Hydrometer, wtrh a great
variety of Biographical and Miscellaneous Arti
cles. Em:bel lifted with fifteen Copperplates.
CONDITIONS.
I. The work is printing on a fuperfine papn">
and new types, {cast for she purpose) which
will be occasionally renewed before they ew
traft a worn appearance.
11. The work, is furnifhed in boards, in volume*
or half-volumes, as fubfcribcrsthufe; the price
of the whole volumes, five doll»»s e»cK-o<tt«
half-volumes two dollars and two-ihirds of i
dollar each. Ten dollars to ne paid on fob
fcribiug, the volumes or half-volumes finitiiei
to be paid for when delitered, the price of ow
volume to-be paid in advance, and the price of
each succeeding volume to be paid on deliver*
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
work will be delivered unlefspaid for.
111. In the course of the publication will be de
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved tn Philadelphia : which i»y
far exceed in number those given in assy other
fcieinific &\&)Tnmy. At the close ot the pub
' lication will be delivered an elegant ffonnl
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle .pages for the different volumes,
It is ex petted the work will be computed in
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
(Kf As Central gentlemen who have honer/J tin
undertaking tvkh tarty fubjinptxns. htoe tnlyn
ceived a Jmall purl as the uori, they tn
rcqucjlcd to complete their fen, as Jar a, fVM
immediately, Me the fuH.Jhcr Jhll to «» h
tower to supply them with the pant »W *««"«
been furMU As the fubJaripttM W »" f
biy be chfed by the fir) «J M next,
cannot undertake to complete fi ts a J'" J
and thoje who uijh to become pofifirs °fti u*
valuable and important work, mllplaje tfP'r'L
the expiration oj that tine, that they may fiotk i'J
heavy
rying on this work, makes it ' ' Vfa
I the pubUfher to adhere
: done to the anginal condition of deliterng
| lumes only on being fanljor then.
April 6, 1793.
TO BE SOLD BY
A TABI-E for receiving and P»>' &
graduated according toLaw-Blank
And Blanks (or the various P° w " T[h(iu ,
ncceffary in tr an rafting Buiimfs at
or Bank »f the the United States.
«
epi»n