A hhtk)Ul wa.-jytßMa
[No. 115 of Vol. IV.] Saturday, July 6, 1795.
—— —: 1 . . ,',t if, 1 . „"" 11 ——.. 'i -.>■ ..
* 1 *■
Diftn'6l Court of the United Stares, in twit}
the Pennfylvanta D'ftri^.
Rub. Findfsy. jun. andathfts, fubjsfls of the
tfCreat-Hnfain, Vcrlu', the fh)p tYiljiam and
Iht cargtf, nvw in the pM. of f*hila\ielplfia.
The lib<el plea and replication Win* firft re
capitu&teriibysdie jtidg'e/as well as
of the-couocil, he proceeded to deliver hts Day
• cRr *» upon tbe pica to ike juri/iliflion as fof.
]6Vrs :
I siA 1 '" g'v?n this every confidera
. tlon I tfm capabfe of, and nave deliberated on
tie- gu rtierft* iand* authorities; brought forv/arrl
y Ivy tta#i|pf*i<s pn bostJ) fides the <$ueftiorr,.wit;b>
the aacnlioiK ifeey juflly merit. But it feeras to
ipe I fiat much his been faidy not immediately*-,
frppli'cr.ble to rhe c<nly point I have now to de--
limine, to wit,. Whether- tkiyCovrt is vi-fttdwitW
power to enquiry Utothi legality of. the prnt,
and to investigate the J ad. on "which all the. r e a[on~
in%s~are ftwi-dcd'? If tbis.fa&is established, and
the ex-tent »f our territorial limits afccrtained, so
ay to mike jt-clear, that a captUfir has-been inade
WitK mTKe tc r r ttonnj nI the United States, tbrre
is not a doubt but that a flagrant violtUHMjCT'tiff,
righ: of neutrality has been committed, and this
isfflUowed by many of' the confluences men
tioned by the advocates.for the libeiiams so far
as tbey rcfp.tft oar national dign.ty and duty-to*
wards a friendly power, in endeavoring to cause
reftimtioo and recompence to be made. Xor.
does this fefcnr so be denied by the other fidV of
the qurfl ort. But the K a rr? foment. ffciil e»-
ifts. Who is to enquire into the andeither
give or attempt the red 'rejs ?
Itisdrfficiilt for a neutral nation, with tlie
fecft dKpofa.mos, fp to conduct it felf, .is not to
djfpleaft owe or the other of.the. Belli gptent pare
tics, heated wiLh the rage os- war, and jealoua
of even tommon a£U of jaftfee or friendfhipon
iw part. Neither it'C2'fy fdr the nations at
war to reftr-4« from/afti ol tfioi.
Jcoceevcn in the territories of. tb«ir
The lean: under controul are those whose object
is not honorable confl;dV, or pair-otic, exertion,
Tfhrft are adltatcd-bV a fpirir of 4ucne, wbirh
Mot only incites to plunder, the baft and law
)efs freebooters, but ta> nidus even. befoiltn, fc\\
(educing into unjuffihable anions thr hrave ft
lWt». |t ■ u-ou?d trr for the inccn ft of nations
and ihc happmefs of mankind', if by univerfil
consent, th'e.quairels«of nation*! were--prevented.'
from being turned. so the purpoles ot private
advantage. But ihe fwoi <k of those who fight
vmH not in our day, be beaten into
plough fharej.
We mtift iake nations and men, as we Snd
tKern, and.cpnfider as lawful, what those at war
autHorise, so far ntit refoefts -the panics eoga
r«d.: Mkc£ allj in depends much "on the mtercit,
the the go^d'temper govern
ment,wtiettrrr-jrneutral shaH, or Alall not be
engpged inytzr. A prudent and joii conduct,
cr. the pv*. <if the neutral, porticnlarly, is the
fiyteft preve/itativc. isxi! how t'o evince this is a
of cowfidetation vi»i<h those to whom the
► \i THt iimpleft: mode
of (jvtncijrijj c».r \n.p3rtitl d.i|po(itton, tsto con*.
/ . fine oprfelvc 5 10 cuftonis o* other nations in
our. Ar* o'J4P anxious zeal to a
vp) d co.i.tests may other wife- Joad-us nuo error,
v 2nd while we/are eodeavoruijgrio avoid one rock,
•\ve #j»ay (r)lit,on anothrr.
Mutual toieraijon piuft b? exrrcife^, lor those
vho &e at war, snd those who are not have their
"r d ilHcult 'cs on ilitis fuo}CK«
Lndfr this vitw o< matUT before me,. 1
hrYc g'ven a patient hearing to both fides. ii«d
baie'pwrfifuiarly anemded to the argumeuis by
vnich ? jurifdiftion"has been endeavored to he
eftdUHliVeJ in this court. It mifft certainly be
allowed fdr thelib'tHincs, that
ih^"/ ; h*ve n«'t b«?rn 's*l*'le to fnew any dtreei arf
tltaney UpQft the point. F'»r the' two caOs ol
/C)>S' tl«e vt irel c. m
mttiing- the outrager neaf the dl Livlrfern,
ptid that ofehc Knn'jft)! ord'ertog R' -
. ftiiurioij ps the effects takrrr out of ttt» Houlcs
of the inhabitants, beiougmg to«a (h'-tp <>♦ a
friendly SXitytf. drjven bv tM cticmy m« ii'S flsKx« .
app.tai uj been flfts of'-pourr,. end not d«>oe
of decrees, or ortlx-rs ot courts ol
Admiralty-.
M!ct ihefe jurifdifrions enifted ifl both the
•cOujurie* ah«w. mm. mn; d..'
If The cafc of Capt. Laoda»s, in the Anirr-iciU)
fn. ate All'dnc , who -*js i.tuered i y the court
■of jpfar.ee to a fbiptakeji by, turn, is not
in poitiV—for, the Fo*ftfs, who appear d as
v.tre either fubje&V or pevfond rvlidcnt
c<rir,it in F: .incc : awd the (hip was
tinder a pa(Tport ol -that nation. Ihe V
»tjr be c.ft fl f^i rrf d* as tncm!cs
tnd'the capture not being made, Jrom event s, v.tL
cafe wes not co'Vnp'ehentitsi uuihe treafy,or tl«
;.u*r nltd by the k"of idauftns. Xti
Wr the mitice of the K:ng
<>'" thrt ot h'.s h^vinfi the powers
•o#-peace aYui Wat, as an aPncndage 10 which he
n»l/ht havr rxei ci led ilif« K'irtd Cis authority} I
<hcui<* not h«rvc him vested, wunout
an attrJf-the Ifrgiflaiiire, with tli<i authoi ity he
" ; in - , is tlolihted by BilnlTcr4»o«li whe
'lierhe did'nght in interfering at ail on the oc-
Cdfion.
II it'bc co&fi(ffent with trea'ies, and other wife
right, ot»r legidature can vest the t*ceuiive in
fulure finvUar oowers. I (|tould suppose
100 that the Mbettv of felVmg R r >?ef, in ? neutral
cctmtft isttOt a prrfcO r: ght ; a<\d may alio be
'' —
oojifttletec!, by our national IcgiflitiiTc, it » fitfc
jflfi of ivguladoa. If any raptures are made
vjiihtr our limirs, and the vefiVls or plunder i V
orpuefck wit hut our porn ; the (ale may be 1.,i
---bioden. Tltry «nuft then he either abandoned,
or carried with-n th#* jurtfui&ion of the captori ;
vyhere the pYbprr.couns will of their
v. Ycf. this is a matter nvt nf .judicial
bin of. political arrangement arfd 'tnuftbe left to
those wfco have the *uihority to dirifcl. The
fovere-'gnty of our na'ion is as completers that
of any other.
1 herefore whatevet other fovercigns can r!o,
we {wve in oiw power. But beCuuTe, at this
tiwe, the awtharity fu pooled on this
ocnation,, is not as it id allddgcd to l>e IV)mid in
the executive branch,.! do not fee that the ju-di
c»ry ought to exercise it, us a cnnfcq.uence re
fitting from political coiiycjuenee or the necef
fky ol partici#l»r cjtfe. Tins I*, star would
oca novelty dilated by our aeal,. and might
p;ive cause of offencq to one, while we were aim
ing at julLice to ourfelv-s, or g;.itihrat'on to he
other. I hesitate not to ufc auy plain authority,
I know this Cnuf-tto poffc-fs, let the coufeqiience
be wivat tt msv. But this is a qucfiion too im
portant in iis to Ue a£led on but on the,
rnun*H< I »gree licir ,as Ido m rijaay
of thv-;r Other position's, wr'fr4* the adVocattt YoV
the libelltjVits, when they* fay that l — 14 courts of
admiralty jnr»rd:ft*ion are lei's liable'to objec
tion as theft; courts arc tcgulattdJ tty the laz»s and
cu/iQMiuof albv/tfffiß'jt and riot liable so political
b. as or entangled in political conhderations.**
Thtvfbould induce th-e greater caution in tfreir
determinations. I .have not seen arty, proofs that
" tktUtoi Mid ctji'oms »f a/I ntiiiovs" warrant the
iuttr-teKncc ofj"tnis CAurt. Jif they do not, no
authority.caii be derived from oor own laws, if
they were nor silent on ths tu&je£l, In tf»e cX--
ift'ng arrangement,of our government. we did
not- calculate on our.relative, fixation, artacon..
telb between other nations. If, for this realon
iio immediate remedy is at hand, who can jti.ft
ly ccnfiire.the executive w-hen he has givejxde
cided ' vifk-nce of Bis impartial and just inclina
tions ? Who can with reason blame the judicia
ry, if they will not ?iTomr 9 power not con
ceived io he v« ft-d in them? Not t-hr jovrn)-
ment of rhfc'ccnint'TV whose fubje&s are the* Ji-
so' wiiom I v. >Hy every degree
may be done. — The principles cfta"blifhcd its the
thf ! ir-own ceuVts, and'thc opinions
oftbeiV most retafrftoPcd lawyer* in the om-
Svjcfia in a grcat rtfgtcc reach iftc point,
33 to judiciary authnr'tv in a neutral nMioti.
[7o be concluded in aur nixl.]
Mr. F/lnno,
If a ua-t\toj(au'ior- appears infont of
t.Ujot/owing, the ft- ivhuh rt-fcr to JirvjligMc cho
ractcrs arc,zv'urtk\-tne attention of. th<: jref eUtioxs
of thisJlatc —Piexkje the-iejore to rtpubhjh the J
whole article. S.- I
Frusii th* American Daily Aiveriifcr. ;
To thi Citizens of the Uiiitcct States. ,
THE defeiftion and treachery of |
general Duntourier is bjg r w ith ;
hfftructiutr to the citizens of tie j
United States, The general pot- j
folicc! great taltnts and 1 knowledge, |
Ivji he was dtwid of vrrtue. He ;
lived in a splendid and expei.ffve' j
ft lie fWr beyond hts ctrctimliances, j
whicu pisjKti ed' the v> ay for his j
yie;drngta t4i<- I'edWiion Aultri
a» and Biitifhgold. i
Ine Americans are je lons of
•heir liberties, biw: il».is jealousy 1
does nut exiend fufficieinly Co the
moral characters of their rulers.
A pvoflig-Tte man cani:o.t bff a patri
ot, and it fitch r perfpn dbesfnot be
come a traitor, it is only because he
is not tenipted.
Ic has been laid, that ifFramcc be
subdued, the confederated del'pots
will turn their arms against the re
publics of rtmeiica, No facli thing
js probable. Eur it is more than
probable they wiil turn thecunent
of their gtsld against us.—By means,
of this powerful weapon, they ma> j
bribe men among us to introduce i
monarchical systems, habits an" ,
laws into our country, or to fubvcit j
our governnietits by ;» Utic ,
and cry againlt the compofuion of I
power in our legiflatuies, oi .o i-i .
volte us in aidefttotfive war by t.v
deceiit pirtlicjttions agaiii'd the <
ojifh or French nation. It beci me;
The Americans, at this avvinl C'
in human affairs, to k< ■>/ a good,cok
out. Thev cannot do this more et
fectttally ihaa by keeping a
trye upon the private charaCtffis ..
their rulers, and.by believingeverf
libertine atnang them to be nal* 1
traitor. A WAiCHMAN.
4 57
F£NNO, No. 34, NOfiTH FIFTH-STREEJ\ PHII.A Dfil,PH] A.
sJfteM GAZETTf..
ALL goven>iTients tend' to tyran
ny. Cnnttitutjons ami Decla
ration* of Rightsj are a feeble bar
i-irr againlt alpiring aristocrats, 1111-
lels rtrengthened by a general djtf
fulion of knowledge, and guarded
by an enlightened people. Pobtic
Free-Schools, theinflnutionof New
hngland, and the free circulation
of newspapers, are the ground-work
and the grand prefervotive of liber
ty, equality, and the rights of man,
in a social state. It is therefore a
pleasing reflection, that, thele are
nn\v more than ev;er fioftered in the
eastern fhttes. Travel through-any
part of the country, and you behold
new fcbool-houfes eretfiing, and old
ones repairing. In molt of the
new to wnfhips, appropriations are
of Untie tf"tS*6Sd3CT
for the:fupport of fthools and pub
lic worlhip. This is true republi
canifin, r. hich chains dvnvn the
nionfter of despotism to the grotiud.
In a country like this, a man who
neglerfis the education of his chil
dren, commits 11 talon against the
state.
Foreign; Intelligence.
LONDON, April jo.
THE reft oration of the Imperial
authorities in the Low Coun
tries, was the immediate cohfqqtierice
of the Austrian vi<stories-. Whilo
the splendid mifcries of royalty at
tratfl so much regard, the homely
sorrows of (lie vulgar cFemand loine
fliare of our fymparhy. In thecourfe
111 una j. >.
lierlands have been <$oome<
the Net
to. feel ' evei y fed variety of pain ;
and change of p}3ce is enly change
of'woe.'' At one moment they were '
Hilled i'n the embraces of French
fraternlfers ; at another forced to
crouch beneath the fwordof milita
ry violence ; St one time compelled
io embrace a fchelme of angrQhy,
and at another to L'ubmit to a fyftew
of o|:'preffion which violated every
princiipl* of gen uine liberty and fa-
Krtary fubordi'nntion. The possessi
on of these provinces is no lender
obtained by multiplied sieges of for
tified towns, which contrail the ex
tent of warlike operations, and con
; fi-iierheir coifeq-tiences within a nar
j rower sphere ; their difinaiitled ci
i ties nnift yield to the attack of a
fuccefsful army i and a single battle
may brill.™ upon the oopntry sf train
of calamities which it is as fruitlefs
' ta refill as it is importable to escape.
Perhaps, however, the conduct of
France was more deltriwtfKve of the
domeflte repose of the people, and
more inimical to t he-habits tliey
had acquired, a»d the prejudices
they bail imbibed, than the n.oft
arbiWy adts of their former rnaf
ters Theiraassertt r t ion for the Carhaiic
faith tmift have Inspired thetn with
againifc those lawless in
nr.vutors who were lubftituting a
code of infidelity in i s ffead ; the
t'tuiiiltuons afl'emblies which weie
fiim mowed together under the auf
pitcs of the repold.ic, and the rash
p-oceedings by which those nieet-
I ~,gs ivere'diftinguiAied ; must have
j ,-V*ived their predilection for those
| ariiiocia ic tribunals wbich admi
| m<te.ed municipal joflice with im
! parjiality, however ndveil'e they
i inirht be fnppotcJ to the p-ocefs of
| political freedom. —If the- p ernors
of the 1 w countries remember, in
the fealon <*f i eiivrntng pruiperiiy,
the profiles of whit., the; were so
liberal on the .eve cf t h<*> ia>e ex
ppWion. it may still be potable to in
furc a liable atid hupp? tunfUrunon
to this hithet to tlHti-acfed 'erritcry.
"In common with every orfier state
J&
4%
[Whole No. 43 7/]
ot> the continent, it raisins ru
diments of r hat feudal Pyft<;lo () f !e-
Riflatidn and policy vliiUi t<he u;-
Jearches of the profoundeft ii,« Hi
rers, and the experience of many
centuries, have proved to be capa
ble of being reduced into a form of
government rhe mo ft adapted, tq Eu
ropean nunniers, and the most, con
genial to the present condition of
mankind, wiihout recurring to
visionary fpeculatioiis of political
| economilts, or the ahnoft obliierated
I examples of the commonwealths of
| antiquity. But in order to accom
plish this purpose, these provinces
rtiult be emancipated from their de
pendence on the Imperial'coorr ( and
their fubje<Smn to a foreign Hand
ing aim}-/ Of this event rheri; is
unfortunately little proba-bXlity at
w ■ - '• ' ■ I'll • k. IfclllVVW
pedi to a greater diltance thaw e>. or
as tlVeiv revolutions have Had thi
etTeft of ptfrfuading many
ed minds to leave the anrendnieni
of (heir to fbcietifs
verted from tlieir original end, ihe
fantaftie improvements of polijhed
life, or the arbitrary coTicelHotts hf
sovereign authority, rather than .0
principles deduced 1 from the la'VS'of
truth and renfoir combining to for in
a ftrirt political' union smong vai'i
on'i ridependenr tn'iimniiiuies,
•' '■ , . », . rJ.'.'>,■ 111
' Wite4 States*
ALEXANDRIA, June if.
Truncation of the answer of Cnpr.
F'errey, commanding rHe fcboo*
ii#f Satis Culortf, to (he arfdrrfs
attioi
Baltimore, ijth June, rlbi,
Second year ofrhe French Republic.
Gttikcbi,
I have with inejxprcffibi'e
pieafure, the Umd letter £®o fl?nt
nie by citizen Cherui. The priwi
pf'es you drfplay in it (hew yourtrue
and well meaivr patriot ism. The
opinion yoo hav? formed of vy
courage, penetrates me vvi h gra'ti-"
rude. ' Whit Aould not nien So to
tFefend such a cause ? What (pould
die}' not do to deserve the name of
restorers of the freedom ot man
kind? This is the honorable title,
that our perfjtverauce .wi'H obtaia
for us among futu e generations.
lir Ft not ten tfcqpfand times more
gforious to die victims to the hap
piness of'oui' Fellow brothers, than
to triumph under the orders cjf
whimsical tyrauts, who engrosS all
the honar of the combats, at which
they are not even p,refent YVs,uri-
These confid'ei a-tions,
I think, are very proper to iuflamt?
courage in every heart. There are:
certain eonj'u natures in life, when
we ought to facnfice tlie.tranquility
of a moment to the promotion and
glory of thp human race. Such is
the cafe in the prcfeni' war ; the
success of wtyftch is interesting 10
every free- nfiiioii
The thick veil of prejudices,
which is fpientl ever f*e eyes of
Qwr combined enemies, will soon be
tjorn off; and then they ■will blesS
the thunderbolts with which we a»e
going to ftfite dead their rfefp«t-»,
atid embrace the arms ViJ which we
are jjoiii-g to carry triumphant li
berty into their unhappy cutinrry.
Keep yo-uiTelves always ready,ch
lizens, to- come at ihefhft call. We
eageily accept your patriotic efFer;
perhaps in a /liort time, »f (hall
want you. Prepare, as mnfh as ic
lies in yo«u power, the miids ofour
country in en to fly td the flanctarif
oflitterty, when the cafe requires
preTcnr render t« the rotninon cause.
llepiefent to those who Indulge in
i
>
d
3532^:^^1
- S?i - , f' v;
&33f
the prof-
[OVtfl\l J Ici'rr jH( thrir country war.tt
wir.riiirtioul, and that Ihorily fef ■
- ill w upon ihem a
w*■ it r ii i In-y will in a liulc limp reap
•nl'iiKiom uJv.4nisges. A» tor me,
l'entirely devyte myleif i-o tb«. d«.
f>eiice of ">y ertu'ntry. lam the en
emy of tlives, and the friend of
frogmen, of whatever country. 1
en the altar of truth, an ha
traj ot"i(|e fqmier, that jiothiugbut
a of thftir principle* or their
death can extinguish , and 1 dedi
c.ite my heart to -ihe latter, his
wpvn tbefe piineiple.* I have taken
tlie.oflice eutrufted to ine, of
wllfth I wist perform tlje diuies till
the l ift moment of my Jife. J can
not flxprefs to you all the gratitude
1 feel towards our
ihe kind receptions I or my prize
have received in every part ol the
Uniltd Stales, I hope 1 lliail Toon
be able to go to Alexandria, and
present in per Ton, my ihanks to its
generous and patriotic inhabitants, i
1 am, Citizens, your moll
fiefpetftfully-attached and
foevoted brother,
11. ANDRE KERREY.
t V "•
.CHARLESTON, (S.C.) jnne tc.
We hear that Col. .Banning, the
collector of Clmptack,- has leized
the.funics, —» — Hooper, prize ntaf
ter, (*ak<;i) fcy the Sang Cuhmepri
vatcer) umii it /hall be-a(certattled
- Irr f —. ■
The fchooi;er Hector,Capt. Olin
lle.l, of VV-iJniington, which on ber.
arrivhl here, fail fed so inuch con
verfation and ipecnlatioti, on the
fubjefi of European and, American
failures, &c. hus, on her departure
foriiiflied tqtial room for animad
version and table talk.
During her Hay in ' this harbor,
rhsre was a real or pretended bill
of sale, executed by ,the Captain in
favor of a Frenchman ; who appli
ed to the Consul of the F.renqh re
public for a privateer's cotnniifiion
—this was "readily granted, as there
appeared no resemblance of fraud
or collusion.—The veflel was after
■warch cleared out as an American
bottom,. for the Weft-Indies, and
failed on Thu fday as fuch—AtieT
(he hgd pa'flcd Fort fohnftcMi, flie
fr-fiTuf.m nTVe" been noticed, that
the Captain had privately procured
ammunition here, and had a few
cannon and small arms concealed in
the hold.
Inflead of pursuing her voyage
to the Welt Indies, Ihe had not 101 l
.fight of the land, Before her pira
tical intentions were displayed, in
bringing to and examining all ves
sels that chanced to come in her
way—(he is even said to have cap
tured the schooner , Capt. Gar
ret. bound here from the Welt-In
dies.
In consequence of this intelligence
being authenticated, two pilot boats
were armed and fitted up to go in
pursuit of her ; and yeflerdaj morn
ing failed on ibis laudable expedi
tion—One of the buatj vyas .com
manded by Capti Cdckran, of the
Revenue c-utter, and the other by
Captain Newton, of the America.
The failtirs, "amounting to abput
OinetJ-, were collected from differ
«nt fiiips in the river ; and they
were f<> eager in tbc caofe, that
thrice the number might have been
p>ocured„ if ihey were thought ne
ceflVrj.''
SAVANNAH, (Geor.) June 6.
On Monday the ult. a Mr.
Tomberlin, who on Canoo
cliie river, and li*d (•turned a day
or iwo befoie io work bis crop,
having qccafion ro cross that river,
was waylaid, on his coining back,
by two Indians, who grunted like
hogs to tlraw- his attention, which
was n<> frtoner fixed than a gua,
fitapped at him. On difcuvering
the jtixnped to a tree, and
putting (tis head on one fide totake
another look at tbetn, one of the
Indiana fiied and (hot through his
hat daft to his temples. Tomber
-Ihi drew fcatk, .which made the In
dian ftippofe he>-had killed him,
wh«, ( hen ran op with his tomahawk!
To tuber! in waited until Kego; with
in ten steps, rook good aim with
his i ifip, and fired at the Indian's
ferity, w-hn ii ftamly dropped ]ii»
gun,crouched ltuiTfelf aluiolt' dou
ble, and placed bull bis bands 10
the pari lie fired at. The other In
itial! advancing with his picce load
ed, and Tomberljn's jjijii being
euipty, he was compelled to r'ttn f.«i
the log he had eroflcd the river on,
and whilst on it was fliot a_t by the
other Indian ; the ball, after pafling
through his split lbirt, grazing him
along the fide; he got off without
further damage. There can be lit
tle doubt, from his character as a
man of resolution and a good ,
inan, but tharthfc Indian he fired at
was severely wounded, if hot fcilletf.
Saturday the Bth indatit General
Twiggs' eroded the Oconee river
with a body of cavalry and infantry,
intending to establish a po(t on the
Oaknmlgee with the latter.
Accounts from the fonth wai d inen
rioii Mr. Seagiove's having in con
finement in Fort St. Tainmany, 8
Indians of the Creek nation ; a
ninth, who was taken % itli thetn,
cut his thr<iru with a knife after
being confined. One of the con
fined Indians is. a Cheehaw fellow,
who made his eCcape the day after
"the inurdeis at T«'ade« Hill in
March lad.
~
BOSTON, June 26 f
[A correspondent has favored u- with the
so) losing letter, from Artit-fi'ador
ar Philadelphia.]
Phtfedi. 'ptiiti, Jangi}, jl
In the -Icond year of the French
Citizen Cbnet, Minister Plenipotentiary of
the French Republic, to the United States
of America, to the French Citizens in
Eo^on.
(itizens, ,
~, IT'. i« with pkifete l have reseUted jyunr
• letter of tjw ijfli ofjhiV
have expend left from thepaftriotilia.aßd
zeal <jf the French Republicans, who have t'h?
" tn five under the heni£o hiflueatice bF
T bnr tfceJßfWoniaet. Tbe*fli®>-
• anjre winch r'eaderiul tp j'our unfitly
ttmatt br^rhTreii,*do6i'j'o\i
and .itelKfy to Jbb' roy efteeiri'.
Nt" oa'. t his o^cz-'
"Go"- y, ~1 %«. ; ■'
1 had letter »n tie.
fubJWS of thole Fjencti framen, wkp liad
fi6M St.'Tfeters and Mujuclon, to>
• •WWch > >j«4' , mf;eh)ife iii'malting re))ly. I tvtote.'
, to he ret afore tonftil at Bofttirt,
f{ociife the fucdrit'or.
and fiityiaancF of^ltofeJFr^"^
citizen Duballet, to teftify to him. iny sincere
acknowledgment for his aije&ionate attention
to his fellow countrymen. And now I request
the French patriots established st Eofion, to
•wait on those generous Americans, Meffis. "
Samuel Brown and Jluflel Sturges, and thank
them lor their friendly afiiftance, which new
demand my iincere acknowledgment.
When my affairs will pehnit me to leave
Philadelphia, for a few days, I Aall employ
those moments of leisure in pitying a v fit to *
our brethren the Americans to the North
ward; and particularly to tie town of Bos
ton, the place from whence the fire i f liberty
firft emanated ; and lhall with pleafuie em
brace that opportunity, more clofelv to tic
the krot of fiiendfliio with the patriots Sa
muel Brown and Ruffe) Stjtg-s.
Zkcfelkwitg i, a Report-oj the joint Committee of
the itgi/lntuteof the Commmwebhh of Mafftichu-
JrUt—u id is , e Jerred to the next ft/lion of the
General Court.
CtmmmiveM of MajfachufttU.
In Senate, June 23, 1793.
WHEREAS it appeari by an atteiled 10-
py of the Records of the Supreme ju
dicial Court of the United States.
Alexander Cfielholro, rxeciitnr"}
bi Robert Farcjuar, tleceafed, (
terjus (• In c a' c -
The State ef Georgia. J)
On armament,
-- Ordered, That the Plaintiff in tl.is canfe do
file his declaration on or before the firft day
ol March next.
OrdcKd, That certified copies «f tbi saM
declaration, be served op ttw Governor ai.d
Attorney of rtw State of Georgia, on or before
tbe firft Jay of June next.
Ordered, Ttjat unless thefaid State Giall ei
ther in due form apjiear, oi- fh?w C ause to die
contrary in this Court, by the firft day of Hie
next term, judgment by default lhall* be «ii~
againlt the jfa:d slate." .
Whe re upon,
1. Rcfottd, .That the fame principles 'of
rtte ConttiMTTon, witch app!v to the State of
Georgia, apptr equally to a!I the States which
compote the government of the United States.
2. Refilled, That it hath ever been the
sense of the Citizens of this Commonwealth,
that the Government of (be United States is
a tcdent Government,
3 Kfjot-ud, That the idea of a Federal C.o
vernment lteceilarily involves the idea ot com
ponent parts, confiding atdiJlinS and (t.arate
Gove r merits.
4- RefoivetLj That a Covemment being liable
to be sued by an incHviduai Citizen, either of
thar, r»r of any other Government, U iupon-
with that lovercignty' which is'ctfbutiar
458
t-aD Oor-rnm-rnM, *7 f»' ch *"- v
averTiin.' .1 saa-i*- -'"•■b.wl, e.ffier ro pre
e,tt .UV.f, t»r »o ? rojtfft ijt* <*>ru ir.einbets,
niftier Citiaen'fl. i!>je<fts.
, .Wt-i 'fhjsAicvriclc "tfce CooOi
she jtnocia- Power to
tftrnnpi &-«—> !>»■(<.-* 'htUuzc f oj no
icr \ Jlt.a by the Judges ot the Su
.irerae Judicial Cou:t in the cale alorefaid, 11
In its pMiwipies fubvehive ot the-State Gs
vernmeots, iucoMiflent with the ease and
Ul'etyoft,* bodyof Free Citizens, and re
pliant tu every idea of a hdcrat Gmcnmeil,
and therefore it is
6 Me/obiiJ r That tiie Senators ot this Com
monwealth m the Congrels ot tbe Ui-ittd
States, be, and they hereby are inllrufted,
5 and tbc Weprefrwtatiiies wq«efled, to u:e
their utmost influence that the article- ia the
Federal Constitution, which relerj to eon
t'overfies between a State and the citizens
of other States, be either wholly expunged
from the Constitution, or 1" tar modified and
explained, as to give the tulleft security to
the States refpettively again# the evils com
plained of, and to remove their appreben
ticn oil tliii highly intereffng and important
foijeot; more especially as this Leg;fl;iture
have the fulled afiurance, that the late deci
sion of tlx- Supreme Judicial Corn tot the
United ,Sutes, bath given a eonftruction
t» the Constitution very different ftom
the ideas which the Citizens of this Common
wealth entertained of it at the time it was
adopted.
t' ;Og lilondaj last tf* SecreU#^ ot 9*
' 3 nionw&l tb, fyt he <si reftionof Hi | ftve?fencj
t.'tlSe SJi»errVor, prerpj/«:d t6e,
*o .Wedqefday of.^»n«urJ ixxt j
J^eP.b»ving ounctd his 'fei«llen.cy's apr».
; p<i>batiAri of private and jwblic.
' aifts, w(vi<;h fiia dgfiogtlie, late,
Hon. * ftriffelj- .
i t*x of tl>e <rf
" iOiiililfc tT&Vslf<; «n ' ast for rcguTatwig,
tNp ihjitlaj incenforhiity lathe oftfee
United States; anaA'for eftab!iliii)g« col
''iege NM*w e»" , ««if'Wilßattifioi»,m tWt chnnty
of;B(:liibin; *by the n&aie of Wilßain»-tiol»-
Jetfe ; u tA fcr>contim>mg<tbe ! %M»nty' «"
; glffi'mmufafttired '■ irr this cctstoonweirtrti {
' (ft* attfor graritittg-a IbStti of~]F. itioO to Luke
and Isaac Bemis; free of interest, for
to. enable them to bnild a
keretofot* owned by tftetriVandwhich was lo
. eirtiaentljrufefut, having lately been eimfuni
' wfjjy fire ; an ast toVrtcotrrage the mannfec
ture of twjne aji ttft incorporating certain
perfonj for the of opening an inland
Water communication between Merrimack
rivfer town-
•tf *'.• i.;. •
during the fefllon, the hon. Edward H.
Robbins, fpealcer of the house, from the in
difpolition of his consort, was debarred at
tending his duty; and John Coffin Jones, Esq.
-was etefted loeaker, pro. temp, who declining
accepting, William Tudor, Esq. was elected,
and filled the chair the residue of the fefiion.
-*>—r.r.l—ti, amounted to
..20981. Toe compeiifatio;i to the members
was Bs. per diem.
NEW-LONDON, Jure 57.
A letter from a mercantile house in Rich
mond. to a merchant in this city, dated June
i 4, fays, '' 40s. fterl. perhlid. for freight from
this to Liverpool, can now be had for tobacco;
from 451. td 50s. has been given to London
Bs. fterl, per bbl. for flour to Europe has been
given, and something more might be obtain
ed; there are numbers in town wiSiing to
load vellbls with tobacco and flour."
From the Maryland Herald.
THE exports of the United States
for the year ending on the last of
September, amounted to the enormous
value 0f—20,; 18,014 dollars. They
stand thus :
GENE.T.
_ a ' ue of wares, goods and merchan
dize, exported from each Hate, agreeably
to th« A bit 1 att laid before Congress 27 th
February 1793.
•up
New Hamplhire,
Maflachufetts,
Rhode Island,
Connecticut,
New York,
New Jersey,
Pennfylrania,
Delaware,
Maryland,
Virginia,
Neith Carolina,
South Carolina,
Georgia,
! Dollars, 20, J18,01 4
Among the grtat cxpoiting states it
will be a mod pltaGng thing to lis to ob
fttve that Maryland, which the year prc
• ceding 1 was the fifth, is now the fourth in
the United Siatci. The attracts from
the Frcafury department are not perhaps
very generally to be iret with. It is to
be tegretted th?t they ate in t known by
every man in ,h e Ui:inn. ]! v thtm he
would tie furnilhed w ' xcnteftil ie evi
tience of our profpc 'y, j- \. } y be .
yond the onuns ot 'ry *i • ' e
gtnious politician' . .
at er the- pi acr
a k rot it!' 1
«!' tuiju Shefi.
Commerce of -the United State*" wniil
enceedingly assist in enabling tiiin to form*
•i just eltiinate or the value u» our iiatior.
al advantages. Lord Sticffisld i» an £i
glilb uobleman, who fervcd ag~-iii.lt us c4>
the continent latt war. When'lit return
ed 10 England he found the miuJ nud
feelings of that country war mly alive to
all forts of prejudices again ft us. Ha
saw the general alarm that fpiead about,
the effect which the difmetnberment of
the Britilh empire would produce. He
wilhed toappeafe it; and (for an author
who did not care what he advanced) judi
cioyfly enough seized the mooicut flyui r
able al once to the national prejudices.,
and to the fate of a work , which was to
flatter them, lie wrote to please.
To please, lie told them all lUey
wilhed to Tee proofs of. He told
tbem "they had loit nothing. He
wrote a largr book, which many
who read this have never read, to
prove that America,vvithout the aidJr
prote&ion of Great Britain molt fink in
to ntrvelefs J want <
and among other things that we Uiouid.
never be able to make mure wheat than we
did about 20 years since ! All things
have provedthat he knew little of his fub
jeft, and that Will Whifton was as good
at prophecy as he was. The author of
the examination of Loid Sheffield's errors
has with becomingmodeiaiion of remark
and by incontrovertible fails and re'afon
ing on them, completely refuted the work
of this peer. lu the discharge of this
duty (for however absurd the doctrines
of the work, they had a dangerous ten
dency against our trade-—) he has re
sorted to documents of veracity, and ma
naged the reasoning on theon with ability..
In the detail to which his subject led, h.e
has presented an unexaggerattd view of
the state of the Union, in the highest de
gree interfiling and gratifying to every
true American. Tiiis examination al
ready begins to open the eyes of even
EnglifhmeH in England. 3o incontelli
ble are its reafonitigs on facts so forcible,
that the very reviewers feel and acknow
ledge its luminous tiuths. The expofurc
of enors in general is wbolfume ; of
those in particular the influence of which
mis-direst the council of a trading nation
with whom we largely dial.
Itfeems to be of piime onfctjneaee
that a country Ihould know its refetirces
and advantages. The mora! effects re
sulting fiora this knowledge are seen in
the quiet charms of contentment, the po
litical are fell in a foberand dignified firm
nefs in their defence and wifemanagement
—To know them on a larger scale we
must resort to those works which treat of
thera from the belt authority.
FRANCE at the t:mc of ifiuing the pro
clamation was engaged, and likely to
be engaged in wa-, with a!!, oralipoftall Eu
rope, without a fingie ally in that quarter of
the globe.
In fucli a frate of things, it is etident, t'iat
however she may be able to dsfcnd herfelfat
home, (of which her factions and agitations
have turni/lied the only fericus doott; Ihe
cannot make rxurnclerforts, in any degree
proportioned to tbofe which can !.e inade a
_gainft her.
By this (ituatjon of things atone, th" Unit
ed States would fiedifpenfrd from an obligati
on to embark in her quarrel.
It is known, that we are wholly dcftitute .
ot naval force. France, with a'l the great
maritime powers united against her, is una.
b'e to fopply this deficiency. S!ie cannot rxt
ford us that species of co-tfcrumn, which is
neceilary to render the efforts ufeful to her,
and to prevent our experiencing the deftrufti
on of our t adi and themoft calamitous iucon.
venience in otii.-r njfpe.ts.
Our guarantee does not rtfpeft frar.cc her
el . It does ndt relate to her u^iirvimediate
defence, it relates merely to the defence and
p'eferyatioti of her Hmrikan co/onicri j'tjefts
ot winch (though of considerable importance)
ti'Sbtbe deprived, and vet remain a great,
a powerful, and a happy nation.
In the a&ual situation of this country, and
in relation to an object so fecoodary to
France, it rnav fairly be maintained, that au
ability in her to ftipply in acompetent degree
our deficiency of naval force, is a tondiiion of
our obligation to perfoim tt- guaiartee •«
our part.
Dollars.
181,407
2,389,922
698,084
:> 749>9 2 5
2,528,085
*3.524
3,820,646
'33.972
2 >55°>2 58
3 >549=499
503,294
2,430.425'
458,973
Had the United State* a powerful marine, or
could the y command one iu foiling
would eot be foiid ; but circainfagced •« they
•re, u 1S prefuir.ed to be well fouuded.
r'i' Cr r * rou ' t ' be no pioporliou between ths
" ij an , d P cri!s . lo wtuch ihc UnUed SiaTrt
would expofc themselves, by embarking in lt.e
'*"/• and lhc bcpcfi; uiid He talkie of their JH
funtwn alms at Jecuringio Fiance, or thaiwbioh
■t wci'ld be 10 'heir p<..*cr afluolly to sendee
nt'. yty a party.
;.%4 ,l P o mioii woHld be a valid reason
Aoruot executing Ihe guarantee. All contrafis
mk 10 nc ive » , ia fo„ablt conftruflioo. Sett
pieteivßUoi. « the firft dutv of 4 naiion ; and
iliowgh ui the perJormajice of ftipulatioiis reUt
out
\rh
ciou
» the
TOR THE GAZETTE.lt vnt, (riipci fairt. r'Coires/that the tiiitotry
Mitittl.nl w'«r (Wild bcJMily bc
ta#fe ihcy a" H.reft'iy cooiemplaUd Ky. lorb
ftipuiaiiom, )Ct 11 ti tu*s not uquwe thai txtravr
dmdi-i *«* txlr&t nfezards (V.ould tut> ; ftp -
tuU-y whtt<- the-ot>jefct fur which they »■« to be
run,4» only a and parUoJur mleicft of
the ally, for whom lhc y a,<: Ln ., oe " ,n - .
As in the prefeni lofUnce ; good faith Joes
not rrqaire, thai the United States fnnuld put HW
ieowray their essential mtcrelb, perhaps their
very existence, i» one of the tr.(Ul unequal con
t-fts m which a nation could lit engaged-to fe
rureto Fiance —What ?—Her WefUlndia If
-1,,„d», and other K'fs impcrumt poffefiions in
Ainciica—For ic is to be remember, d, that the
(tipulationsof the United States do in no tveat
kjcli beyond thit'poiot. If tliev were upon
the ftfeogtU ciLihcirguaTairw, to engage in thr
wnvamTeould iniie any a:rangcmc;it with the
billif-ereu; powers, fur fetitrmg to France thole
islands and those poJTtfiians, they would be at
pcrtefl liberty instantly to withdraw—They
would noi be bound to prosecute the -war one
rourfteyi longer.
They are under no obligation in s»y event,
as tar as the faith of treaties is concerned, to
aflitt* France in <ief<encs of her liberty ; a to.
pit tfit.wjtitill so much has said, so very
little to thepurpole, as it regards the present
queftjflii. ■■
Th? cqnro.il. io which tha United States
fhiinftlvcs, were tliey to take
part Vrith France, would pnffibly be itili more
unecfJi.il,' t'lin tikit in which France berfelf is
engaged. With the poflfeiiions of Great Bri
tain and Spain on both flanks, the numerous
Jidian tribis under t' e influence and directi
on of those powers, along our whole interior
frontier, with a Jong extended sea coast, with
no maritime i'ur>e of out own, and with the
maritime force of all Europe againtt us', with
no fortifications whatever, and witlvwpopu
lation not exceeding lour millions—it is ini
poffiblij- to. imagine a yi.ire. unequal qontofl,
than that in wnic.l wefhouldbe involved ill the
cafe fuppoed; a contest from' which we are
difluaded by the most cogent motives of felf
prefcrvalion. as well as of interest.
We may Jearp from ,V»tel,.pne of ,the ;beft, ,
"writ«rs «o the lawj of nations, that if a
State wWcbhas promifeil I'nccours find» itfeU"
onabie tol'iiruSlh tlieWjits very inability's its
extnfptlon j and »if the furniihiog Hi® suc
cours wouU-fxpofe.it to aniviicnt.'dahger— 1
this also is a lawful .dispensation. The cafe
wonU render th# treaty pernknas ttf the State
and licrtjtre not'liliguiair). ' But thii applies to
an immmair dwigtXth'eateriirrg the fafety of
t"ie State ; °ff a danger it laeitiy inj
iKciflarily rtfirjititvtrj tieJty." f,. .
Jl'ta'6" [avno ijiiiffi>le artel man will
itenyytheeift&it ti.i" 'the p'refent combination ,j
tga nfl; is in a decree tin fe afcrjbet? to -
inlp'rSjjJe.iCfS ai£tipt jiirt } tte'tfxciiip'ion to
the States- liw* tnaaifcft and i
» ]
in' haiStfiK 'of tfc* prttfcal .Jc'jiii, wtytjr |.
Jhay have bean by |be . j
indi J
This if. dilate' wf yeßj?6it, wUlt
which ««j8 cpurtkaft; pfie'
tice y/. -v- > f:
To wtl?eS9'?»^c^i<ideW»»» H may
baps WSwted, With fmall.degffee of |oa>
that militarytfip'uJatioos in t>»tiot>al trtatteS
tke HKdinatyrafe i>f /«><'£* ',
uar ,are irrelative .tp the
sn>w ll*t ■ pF:P<IviRNM£BfT ; J ]
n;tieft Wk«r'ff tWy-h*ve ex|)refs reference to a ,
Involution ftr wherfc; there l»' v a guar-''
antee of the existing copftttutioft of a nation,
•r where thtffi is a perj.,fni. alliance for the
4efeoee«f» pppjcsar>4.ft} family-* ■ :
Tlje Ite Vol lit i Or» tn traoce itvthe
foatije ofj|hsAv'ar. in wliicjj llje i* «Dgag<Kl-
Tfce reifii'atiVp th? iTionxjchv is -
ed object.of ferri'e of her euemk-s—and the'
impi ied;ww >f ajl ,qf them.... .That qacftfcn t
tlien isriftiifcillv involved in the prtncit>l«-of
the acrtjHJjy wVcr-> ill tlxt >
**.Wr
which ofir tfeg t v ujai; onsden iMKt it may thence 1
be to Jie CB»-
- Xr;yn;H lay rt.
'llie would be that the H United)
ha»,« that touldbe
tlaimed l»y t)}e nafion of ?i*aocß, -Whw " they
f> far r»(pe,etcd its decifiofl «« to l-ecogmfe
the,newly coriftifßted jx>w«rr.i; giving opera
tic atliance for futnri, occa
fem, hi eOifiderwf lAefrtjefii tear as a wit ex- '
ftert'ayj f<M». tale exception iiin other
tOth'iftttiiinSancei U n4*?whvch
bst»'««n >h» two q«rt«»trie
*er* CoiitMeWd. ft is impdl^aie,, prejjidice
apart, '/ot to prfecive a delicate. «liil>B*<als
#ien e between theM«ri and 1*3.. ofo»r i»li tical.
relatiwrte'-FViSci; •* - J \
On ihefa grounds, also, as wfj) as that of
ti* pre font the fide of
France The. United States baye valid Jind
honofsbh pfeai.ton&r agamft the tnwution .
of the guarantee, if itfhould be claio«d of,-
tliem by Prance. - And . the, Prefid«nt waj in
•very view fully juftiSed in-jirenouticin&i
that the <)uty : avd inta/eilof tbe-lioited States
dictated abeiMralitjJri the.«tar,'
t Sit Betk 111 a.,p. VI. Sec 9?. ,
J PuJnJorJ B«»i yHI. Ouip. IX. Scitwn IX.
clearance*; as the port of Phi
ladelphia, f: om the Xft ol'January to the 29th
ofJur.»,i793.
rojt£it>N Ports.
Shij>«;
B' ig?, Snows, &c.
Schooners
Sloop-;
Skips
and .Sloops
CO &STWISE.
■WW I'MmwWpMrfj r-..-ra»M.rn-. i«-U_» i. -wr* l
Philadelphia, July 6. j
Tburfdsy bffliflj thi. iif Inde
pendence, tiic tiuy .w'is celebratvt' intilisii
ty »yir,'i.Wli Jeiudai) rations ol indicate
the high feme rite people enrertain of* tlie in
valuable blelimgs tlerived fi'uin that impor
tant event—'• Peace, I.ibeity and Safety."
Several corps of the military made their
appearance—The Society of Cin.-inrtati dined
at Qellers', where a number of fraternal and
patriotic toads were drank under the dis
charge of cannon—Select parties were foimed
and dined in various public houses, in the city
and neighboring vjlla-^—the public feats <M'a
mufeinent, Gray's, Harrogate, and the Cir
cus, particularly the latter were thronged
with company—M. Varinot's Fire-worlcs in
High-Street, were brilliant, and greatly ex
ceeded the mod sanguine expectation The
hours pafied in one continued Jeries of amuses
mcnt, and no accident we believe, occurred
to abate the pleasing reflections on a iietrol
pecrive view of the day.
A letter from Jjmaioa is in town, .which fjiy*.
that the Providence, of 20 gun?, and AdillanuoT
14, have taptflrecf the Ann and Sally, of Balti
more, jnouotiftg 6 gun*, and having on boatd 23
men. all fpeakmg English—The words 11 Ann
and Sally of Baltimore,"' were covertxl hver
with black, pairit, but the letters plainly defcJVii
able.
The Augusta paper of Jun? 15, fays, t*at
.Major-General Twiggs, crofleri the
■with about 920 men on Saturday lad, on
way to the Oakmulfcee, Where the infantry
were to halt and build a fort. The cavalry,
amounting to about 452, commanded by Bri
gadier-Generals Irwin, Clark and Blackburn,
we r t immediately to proceed to the lower
(Cieek) Towns, and procure Itti'sfadtfon for
the hUme:'ous unprovoked muVdeis and d«-
vafcatioTin lately committed by that faithlefs
tribe of lavages.
Cjiptaun of the Jane, ini3
'St. Eaftatta, informs, tjhat tlje iaft accotjits.
from Martinique when he failed were, that
the En«t|(h h.ad been camionading Font Bonr
bofl wlth thfee jgwrt iiip3,£bi)t bad ceased
firing, ftnd attempted a landing. . A report
was prevalent at. Sr. fawl t<* be
brought fc»y am. Uifti arrived at &jrta
doe<, that a fnr .peacfi was on
ibat becwe«iK3Eltigland and-£.ra<ic*- -• --»«•
There is an EngUih Letter of RTsrtfufi in
tie rive;-.
A paragraph in the Mai! of Monday in
forms us, that the Prefidcnt of the ynited
States has not decided on the, quettion sub
mitted to him, refye&ing the p ize Ihjp Wil
liam.
Ext rail ofUtter from England, dated April e 0,1795.
<4 Our JVr.niftrv wtie so wife as to appoint a
public; fall, to be kept yeftcrday ; many of the
(iiff ntin£ minified declined coniplyiug,*~ Some
complied for paiticutar rcafors ; in a sermon..'
preached on theoceafion it was said " number*
would not be plea fed at having it insinuated, and
yet it is to be feared, that national confidence in
and reliance on our own military and naval
prowess, has teen produ£live of the difappoin
mejtts commonly attendant on a vain Jiclf de
pendant:?." Was it not 11)1$ that led on to tho(e
hoiltitties, which were commenced as on ih'is
day, eighteen years ago, at Lexington, in M.'f
lachufetis Bay ; and thai brought on and con
tinued an un lucre fsful war for more than (even
vearf, and loaded us with a debt confide (ably
beyond a hundred millions of pounds nerling ?
And is it not owing to the events of that utifue
ceOferl war, that the present has been -drawn into
ex'ftence ? Whatever advantages may be gained;
fto:r» the la let, we can rtap but Tittle glo>y from
it. We are leagued with so many formidable
powers, that fbould France bccompleleJy ctu(h
cd, by the united force of the confederates*
fuin of the divided honor obtained bv the event
w> 1 yield but a trivial fhareto each ally. Mow.
e.- r :: is not a opinion «>t mine that
f ih an event will not take place within the pie
<em year : after which the "probob lity <>t it*
ev< 1 exiftiog will gradually dimmifli. T*h> fe
t oughts an natural to 1 hole, who recoiled th
varans circumtlances of the American war —
how f iddenlv and unexpeft-'dly, the thieaien
ing Worm which hung over th'* country the la/t
year, was dtfpeifed, though headed by one hf
the firti G neiais, uov» retired as we are inforrfi
ed, from public serviCe to his private
with faded lawrcls—-and that it is not the late of
one Arnold »» one Dumoarier to tix the iflue of a
I war ; but of the Lord God of Hosts.
The'thou gin I ess multitude, compofcd of ,'v?.
• ious orders, having heard the French charged
with being a nation of and Infidrls* nuy
thswc they are doomed r y heaven tc de
ftrudion. But it m.y be alked, has not such
a.hrifm and infidelity/been the natural produce
of dai k fupet iluion and prejudice, in conjunc
tion wi:h the inconsistent and abandoned lives
of what have been denominated the religious
orders ? and may it not be the defizn of Piovi
dencr to bring about a reformation in the prin
ciples and practices of the nation by the judge
muns with which they are vifiicd ; aod by his
piovidewal intcipofiiotis, tn which he may
prevent iheirruin—and in th sway prepare them
For a f rQe government of iheir own ehoofifg ? ,
It. is a quelt;on not cafily foived, whether there
is moie real a'.hrifm and infidelity in fiance
than in Great-Britain, the ditf' rence of nutnbeia
conftdcied, though in the former the public
avowal of it may be more gen. ral."
/fWff a Corrrfpund i.t.
The Commifnoners appointed to fettle the
accounts between ti:e United States and the
individual states we are informed coiulud.Vt
that business on Saturday lafl—what prodigi
ous exatfcnefs ! after an appointment of more
than five years, they hit the very point ol ex
piration of the time limited by T.ongref* with
as much accuracy as ever §ir Isaac Newton
found the return Qf a comet aufwered to his
calculations. £G<i?*r<i/ Advcrti^f-^
July 1, I 793-
PACIFICUS.
Arrived. Cleared.
7i 49
in 91
51 S7
44 5'
9 >3
37 »4
224 193
459
Jixlrafl ej-a letter from a'ginthmm in Sir
" I h-ivr found out a variety of innnry
Coining pnt&ice* here, highly difgracifal
I think to tlie parties, to the country and
its fcnvs; and in the instances I fhali men
tion. likely to do infinite mifchiefs to the
vast circulation of Spanish iilver in the
United States 1
" As early as May 1791, they began
with the American copper cent, only up
on reading the resolve of Cong re Is to
have such a money, and the getting over
a,p4«; of the. Am? 1 ican 'eagle. Xh«e
were three different forts of these cents
made here, all with the President's head,
not a bad likeness and tolerably well exe
cuted. I find however, tlris was merely
an attempt of some artists here to induce
Congress to give Birmingham the order
for coinage of their copper money.
" I have seen pattern cards of {hillings,
frxpencts, and hijlf'pencea, so base, as to
be marked for sale at the rate of 28, 30,
and 36 /billingsior the guinea.
Quarter doUarj and piftareens, (but
principally quarter dollars) cut into three
or rather four pieces. An exait triangle
taken out of the centrc. The other
three pieces of.debafcilfrlver, nevertheless
to be run off as halves of the quarter dol
lar. The central piece is again coined
down, and isleft rather plain ici the dies
(which were (hewn to me with ps*e* of
the money) and the crescent formed pie
ces ttt uck to nearly as' jraffible the Itamp
ofj that part of a real Spanish quarter
dollar. The piftareens were worl'e exe
cuted.'
" I have also Teen Dutch ducats, and
dollars which were done as follows. The
ducat was cut out of a pure piece of foft
fjlverto the proper size and to be ealily
bcadable in the finger a; pure ducats are;
there is then a thick amalgam of gold,
(which is made of quick silver and gold,
and then squeezed through lhammy leath
er) laid on this loft silver, and then llruck
in the press to the exad fixe and marks
of the Dutch ducat of date 1752. This
order came through Englilh merchants
from Holland and London, soon after
the declared and open afliftance given by
England to their high and mighty allies
the Dutch. The value of these forged
ducats is about one and sixpence Iterling,
wotfcmanfliip and aU. They weigh about
2 dwts.'y grs. and by weight the real du
cat would fell here for nearly ten (hillings,
so that here rests a neat profit of eight
and sixpence on each piece.
'j Spanish milled dollars are of three
forts, two only of which I have seen.-—
The baser one is cut from a well silver pla
ted Iheet of copper of due thickness, then
hooped around the edge with a fiver wire
so thick as not to expose the copper if
scraped moderately on the edge wi:h z
knife (a common mode here to de
ted base silver) and is then milled
to the copied dye, of which there
are more than one fort. They are
so well executed as to pass easily
among others, and are in value,
■worVtrranfiiip and all, about one and
sixpence.
<< The other and more pure dol
fat.«, the artills are more close and
secret about, as being a better tiling.
however come to Birmingham
in real Spanilh or Mexican dollars,
bought at the bank and 01 her pla
ces, sent down by land carriages,
about 10,000 at a time, in a calk,
and they are melted and recoined,
copying as exactly tire old impref
fions| of which there are three or
tour fort 3, but mo(Hy the lank vir
ago of his molt Catholic Majesty,
nine pence of silver being taken from
each of the new coinage, and these
new ones want but little alloy to
br ing'them to a proper thickness ;
two one-h:ilf, or three pence on each
piece is ample pay to the at tift here
for dies, recoining, fending back to
London, and all other expences, so
that the public upon whom they are
ptKivlofe nine pence in every four
an<t fix pence, and the emitter has a
benefit of (i* pence on each.
Upon close invefligation, no doubt
remains itfon tny ntind, but they are
meant for the Welt-Indies or for the
Uribed States. Six tons of thein
anil of other silver, have been so
melted down fi»ce the beginning of
AujulV lait. The parties were very
fee er a* names, but dropped to
me iipoir being closely puihed, it
war done by them under art order in
a r:gular way from a houi'e in Lcn
* Swffcftijor riitpj.
miitgbtim.
wholly in the i-nba line,
and thai I bole dollars weie meant
for the fact ; bui this cannot be the
c;i!'?, [lie people it) tlmr country be
ing very nice ami (crapulous '»» to
filler imported coins. I haye a<Jlu
ally heard pnijetfionftl nic« (oue in
the church and the oiiier a phyll
cian) speak of knowing loinewhat
of this last coinage, and having re
commended an aitilt for lite purpose
of doing it ! !
" -djjiguats in quires, both (tamp
ed and (igii'eJ, as well as in blank
"with the proper paper
and all the Fttnch words neceflliry
in the -water marks executed, as I
was told in London, and lent lii
ther for the engraving, printing,
and finilhing strokes.
" The head of poor Louts how
ever, (which is done by a ft aw p
the fame as is on the hills and notes
here) appears now to bea want here,
and a loss to these fcheuters t-one of
whom told me, corfing and execra
ting the war, that lie ihould have
been ten thousand pounds richer, if
the declaration had been delayed
a month or rv»o longer. Thole al
fignats which I saw were all for
ten, twei>ty, and two hundred 11-
vres each.
" In 'ike manner in the wsr
time did they forge and counterfeit
boxei full of our continental paper
money: f» one veflel there was
taken four or five box:s of it, and
others Which cot into America help
ed much the depreciation in 1,779.
In this placc fjfh pratftifes are.iielii
not ciitninal, but a fair advantage
over an enemy, indeed hardly any
thing else short of murder is critni
.nal among them, for I never yet
saw a people so totally devc.it) of.
principle, morality, andthofe lefter
ties which bind and unite uiau
kiud."
The Dolphin, Rogers, arrived at Boftpn from
Bristol, iafk Sunday l —'s paper* contain
no nevs by this arrival, nor is the lime imoti
oned when Th< left Briftoi-
According to two publications tit the Nev.--
Tork pipers—one signed frfepi Br otitic, the
other 7j«"j Ulanchurd, tt appears that the im
plications to Cotigrcfs for depreciation are to
be renewed at the next fisflwm—and tho%
gentlemen recommend in artditwo thereto,
that the Prefidfiit of the United States C. urM
be requefied to ferond theli application! -
Mr: Blanchaid, in lis letter, fay*, that Genera!
Hull's going to N'agara,dtd by nn means in
jure the claim ot the officers—" bat the tranf
a&i'Jn only proved the corruption of the pre-
adminiflration !"
"Nine (hips, meafurin* Howards of $510
tan"—ten brig«;, amounting to more ihjin
iqoo tons—three sloops and live icbooners—•
have bsen launched in this port since the be
ginning of March. Nearly as many more are
on t'ie flocks, and~ will probably be launched
in the course of the summer.
There art report!, and a letter in ufWn from
the Wtft-liidirs, which fptak coufWitnily of t
price, as having taken place between Franco,
*nt\ Hnlland—Whether ihii infoimj
t on irbtoilt oi i fpecuiaiioivfcdfW, tinie wili de»
urinihe. - • *
Philadelphia, July 1753.
Ji* t
1 HAVE the hbnor ro enclose, herewith, at\
accountofthe FLOUR (hipped at this port id
the months <>f April, May, and June laft—aTid
am, with very great reJJjeS,Gr, your ohedeat
and humble servant, JAMESREAD.
H'n Excellcncy Thomas Mifflin,
Governor of Pennfvlvania.
Account of the FLOUR Clipped at the porl
of Philadelphia, for exportation, in the
months of April, May, and June, 1793.
Flow. Bbh. AUd'ihngi.
7(279 461
593 1 9 610
Shipped in April,
May,
June,
nssd -»w
In all, a'Sflji
JAMES READ, Infpcflor.
His Excellency Governor Mijtin.
The letter-hag of the Jotyi & Richard, for
Ofterd, via Falmouth, will not be raK.cn
from the Volt Office, before the iarh inftaut.
letters for the Bntifti Packet will tc in. time
on Saturday, this da).
■ morning, died, at hi . feat a)s...
fptli Grove, Sainael Efgtd'e.*—lt ii
enough to fay of »ms
refpeftaote family loft tbeirJrieMfcuiflfcaidt .
—that the large circle of hhacqoajatsiiee bM
loft a citizen whole heart dieir
in te reft, and ivhofe manncrj were trfrtiout
fniie— that hit servants have hsft a nufter»
his wife a bbfoaod, and h« obihfrert a com
panion, a friend, and a father —Tt a 'tffT■'
wil! be fficd on bir grave 'but wktrwjMjr
from ihe bottom'of Hie heart.
FRIGS' OF STOCKS.
6-pcr.CetiUi
3 ocr C
i>ctf ritrt,
full /aires 2zuV I". f
* :
tj-6
,0/ 4
f. Ocr ceiu..Ta> the Public.
r TVIE E4iior of the Ga zit w op rHf United •
■ s,-projXjfes pubiifhiog tiiC Paj^r (
under.that' T.irie, every Evening, Sunday's
excepted.
To render it interefiing as a Daily Piibli
ration, it (hall contain foreign and dorae'tic,
commercial and political Intelligence :
fays and Observations, local and g?ner*J :—
Maritime informstioi#:—Prices Current of
Merchandise and the Public Funds. Alio a
fummarv of the proceedings ot Congrefi, and
of the Legislature us this Stale with a
iketch of Cong.reffion»i Debates, Krc.
ADvtJTtziNG favors will lie gratefully re
ceived.
T I R M S.
Ta be printed; oa.poj*r of tJ* (Jeraj l &•;
b«t a-large c fiat rhDoccnv
b«r next. •'■ '
The price Six Dollars per Annum, to he
paid half Yearly.
fii#Mrrtbe«ii?.*
ob£swo«dt.tbe PoWlcatlon fliaU Mmmsoet.
In the interim, the Gazette will be pub'ifly
ed -twice a, week as yfiial."r-Subljcri|>tl«n«ilie
refpeftfulty solicited by the PubHc'« l»»p(ble
Ctt.v*#,
FENNO.
Sibfcriprilw-7 arc receiver! at the City Tavern,
Soutn Second Street-by Mr. Mfon, at th Stent
H<mfe—by other perjons who are in fojjrffioi uf-ful
fcri'ption, paper i, and by the Juditoy at hti ji t?w/V>
No. gj, S'orth Fijth-Street.
Philadelphia, July, :793>
THE A D 1 / 0R
MOST eaineftty rtrpiefls those of lis difiant Sub
scribers uho au in arrearsfor the Gazette, to make
payment as soon at pnffible.— i hose perfoni alio hate
received fitbfcription money on kis account are tit fired
to remit the fa""- Tit, arrearages for the Gazette
hive accumulated to aferious amount —Serious, as
they are the only resource to, dif charge very fefious
engagements incurred in the prosecution of this ex
fenjivepublication. Philadelphia, June 26.
BANK of the UNITED STATES.
July ift, i? 93.
NOTICE is hereby given that there will be
paid at the Bank after the lOlh iuftant, to
ihn Stockholders or their Reprefematives duly
authorized, FOURTEEN DOLLARS and
FIFTY CENTS;'or each Share, being the divi
dend declared.for the last fix month*.
Bv order., T ..
JOHN KEAN, Cashier,
«P3*
INSURANCE COMPANY
Philadelphia, July ift, 1793.
NOTICE is hereby given to the members ot
the InHurarvce Company of North Ameri
ca, that the Directors have declared a dividend
(to this day) of fix per cent on the amount of the
lirft instalment, and of one per cent per month,
on the sums paid towards the i]econd and third
inftalmcnti, calcuhting from the firft day of
the month following t fiat in which these pay
ments were made. The Dividend will be paid
to the Stockholders or their Representatives, at
the Company's Office, (No. 119, south Front-
Street) at any time after the 71 h inft.
FiifcNfcZfcß HAZARD, Sec'ry*
fijT As (hi r.tcmbirt of this Company are muck
difpcrfcd throughout thc United Stfltej) the Printers
in thc jevcralfates are nqucjlcd to give the abuve a*
place in their ntxvjpapers.
RULES
To be obfcrved in tranfc&ing Bunnefs with the
Insurance Company
OF NORTH-AMERICA
ift. A LL orders tor lufurance must begiven
JIY. in writing, signed by the applicant;
and as minute a dcfcripii»n of the vctlel it-ex*
petled, as the person ordering lite insurance can
give, refpetting her age, built, how found ?nd
fitted, and whether ftngli decked'.
2d; All pplicies will be ready tor delivery in
twenty-four h<?urs after the order soT intuvanre
is accepted at the office, and the policy mult be
Uken up in ten days.
3d. Notes, with ap apjyoved endoffaj, forall
sreaft be given in ten d«yt* payable
a»follcvf§;.
For American and Will-India rifques, in
three n onths after the Hate of the policy.
For Etvropeun rifques, in fix months.
F»r India and CH;'na rifques, in months.
For rifques by the year, in-<ight months.
For lifqutva for fix monthsj in foni inomhs.
And loi rifqi}c.i for any 1 offer time, in three
mnmhj.
4ih. Losses will be paid in ten days aftqr proof
and adjustment ; hut if the note given for the
premium not have become due w it bin that
time, the-ammtnt of itftiall', nevciiheleft, he de-»
dueled from the loss to be paid.
The Infutanue Company of North-America
hereby giv® notice to all whom it may concern-,
thafi agreeably. above rules, they are ready
to receive*aU orders for insurance, which may
be ad,dreffed tothem, accompanied with dnec
tions to some refportfibJe honfe in Philadelphia
for t.he payment of the premiums within.the
time, limited.
In cafe thr rifques offered fh.al.l be- approved,
the insurance shall be immediately effr&ed ;
otherwise notice fhali .be gi.veo,.cuhct byanlwer
to the person applying, Or to his agent, in Phila
delphia, as may be ordered.
Bv order of the Directors,
E&ENEZER HAZARD, Sec'ty,
4 W
J i'y 3'
THE MEMBERS OF THE
INSURANCE COMPANY OF
NORTH AMERICA,
Arc defreJ to take Notice,
THAT tht-Conliitotion icquires raymfjw of
One J'oHur on each on the Second
Mot.dav (tht 8 h Day) o'l July.next, on Penally
ol Fotfe»*ure of iht Monty already paid.
Sych Stockholders as have nqt made their fe
ccad Inftalmem, are informed, thai Payment
. will be received at the Company's Office* N«>.
119, South Front-Street, either on or before the
fdid Day, a* they may find it mofltfonvenient.
EBEKEZLK HAZAUD, $*>*
Jane 8. 1793. e P^j
JV9T n'IILISHED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
Book Teller, at the Siwz-HiHtJtj Saot,d
Philadelphia,
VOLUME IX, o.
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
on, a DICTIONARY of ARTS, SCIENCES,
and MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
; QtpPlM'twif-ntty ncn • '\
BX »HICH
'tn* 9»rrifc I 'k»iT SCIENCES Awn ARTS
, . Frtri« of Diftiaft,
TREATISES' or SYSTEMS
THM VOllWI! C««il*IN«
T.Kygtpmeter, «tf»o«y
iajiinj ]Lfl*M, Jerufalein, jfwa, b»oi»,
InlrSs, VrifoirAn'ie, fw£y» Kamfchajka,
Jj»nga»(p-, E*w, 'L'tgcrdertiVtn,
witb jren if rtrt toifceh- <
Uneous •*>'¥ thlttyfon* :
ckg,«atCopyerpl«tc.s.
CONDITIONS.
I. The Work is printing on a fupeifine paper,
and new types, ('call for the purpose) which
wi i 1 be octafumally renewed before ih«y con- i
tr?d: a woni appcotaiWe.
11. The work is furnilhed in boards, in volumes
or as-fubfcribeis rhufe;the price
of the whoie volumes, five dollars each, of the
half-volumes two dollars and two-thirds of a
dollar each. Ten dollarsao be paid on fub
fcriW)g t the volumes or half-volumes finilbed
td be paid for when delivered, the price ol one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each fvQCfieding vohinoe Co be paid on deliver
ing the volume preceding it. Nopzriottbc
work will be delivered unless paid for.
111. I ft- the course of the publication will be de
livered about five hundred' copperplates ele
gantly enjgf.aved it* Philadelphia : which by
far exceed in number ihofe given-in any othcT
fcientific di&ionary. At the close ot the pub
lication will be delivered an elegant froniif
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for the different volumes,
Iris cxpetted the work will be comprised in
about eiehtecn volumes in quarto.
The subscription will continue open on the
abovrterms-till the firft day of September next,
to give opportunity to rhofe- who are Mitt yet
f.jhfcribers, to come forward.
Those who have and got only a
small part of the work, a»e requeued to com
plete their setts., as far a& published, as soon as
pollible, as after the firft of next September., by
which" time the tenth volume is expetled to be
ready, the publiftier wilt not consider himfelf
bound to nuke up those- setts which are not
completed up to that period.
Philadelphia, fane tg, 1793.
Albany Glafs-Houfe.
The .Proprietors ofthe Glafsr Manufactory, under
the Firm of
M'CLALLEN, M'GREGOII */;^Co.
BEG leave to inform the public, that ihcy have
[ now brought their WI>NDOW-GL ASS to
such pejfcftion, AS.willhe found v on .omparifon,
10 be equal, in quality, to the belt London
Crown Glafj.
1 Having fixed their pi ices at a lower rate than
impqiitdlGM"s;.they aie induced to
impoitationsof this article will be difconnnupd,.
in proportion as the'r works are extended.—
Ithey ptopofe to enlarge the scale of this
ness, and as the <"ucccf*« of it will depend the
* patriotic fwppoitof.thc public, they beg leave to
~ I" ~ y ~ J " ~ o
Solicit their friendly parsonage i»i the pursuit of
branch which will interest exexy lover of
American-Manufactures,
All ord'cr* tor Window-Glass, of any size.,
wl> he received a* the Store of Rhodes and *|
g on, No. 234, Quecn-iireer, New*
York;, and at the Gtafs Wa r ehouse, No. 48,
Market-street, Albany, which will be punctually
attended to.
(J3""WANTET), fix smart aflivc LADS, not
exceeding 16' years of age, to be indented as
Apprentice*-, and' rogwUriy. infttufitd in ihe
v»rio«> bra bc G4a f«-Ma king.'
Atfb, 'href Window-G-lafs Sinkers, to whom
glieat encouragement wiH be given.
'*% 1. '793'
G E;N £RAL POST-OFFICE,
Philadtiphia, May 27, ITQI,
509 Dollars Reward.
WriEREAS a ccrtarn THOMAS SI.OSS
GANTr, has lately made his efcapc:
from Baltimore County Gaol, to which ,he wos
committed uridTr a charge of having roMtett'the
F.aftern Mail, on the zljibr day of January last :
Notice is hereby given, that a reward of. five
hundred dollars will be paid at this Office, to
anv person or persons who Iball apprehend the
hid T/idnt&J S/OJI Gantt, and deliver him irtp ( thc
cuftodyiof the keeper ~f the faidGnol, pr mji>
thecufiody of either of tho Msrffials wttbin. the'
Uiiited S-jii-s, so that the said Thomas Step Gtin]t
■ may be cffeftu.llv secured. and forth coming to '
answer the above mentioned charge
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
PoJLMuJitr Central, fi 1
Ttfc fo!lo«vingn< « icfcriiipiioo- of the -
j;.n|me<J TiMm.Aj sum-G A*».!•}'• ft*' •»- iboit
I fi*f«thigh,irtrait, nd well TOMbV Kw light co
( Imited -h*ii'-, lied behind, fair anc
ha-s a down look when fputawtfei ■
460
FQR SALE, ?■-
M At'Hfi Vv c A R tY,
At In, N«' "»•
I'lJ 11,* ot »■>•»»*•
T7HE AMERICAN
i . ...i >» ]«>«"*• .'7»7. «» J >'•
tcrin'nrtdon ,n D remwr. .79.. -» M*»™ «-
hunts, price, neatly 4 " d lslU,edt """"
of the United
Sixes, retpefl.ng this work, is ti follow* .
« 1 believe the America Mofcqm h« met
wit h extendi may f»y, ™'lm £
probation from competent judges ; lor I am of
that the work U «* only eminently
eflcohied .0 difcminao political, agriculture
philofopbical.aodoth .
but that it has been unijarmly ccndufltd wuh tafle,
11 \° lhek "" P °'T'
obiefts be fuptraddud the more immediate de
fisn of rescuing public documents from obit
vion—l will venture to pronounce, as irjy ten
timcnt. THAT A MORI USETUL LITF. RARY
rL A N HAS NEVER BEEN UNDERTAKEN IN
AMERICA, or one more deserving of pub
lic ENCOUR AGiBSENT."
- 1
i v ■' i-
J»" g 5-
Hercule De Sercey,
From Lcogfne, Jjlar d of St. Domingo,
MAKES and fells all Tofts oi Vugs, J<» cks >
Porringers, Cups, Stcv/-Pans, Lamps, See.
in Tin, plain or ppanoccl —He also mends oja
tin work. As he works cheap, he hopes for the
public encouragement.
No. »3, Raccftreet, near Front-street.
Jiiiie »2.
HERCULE DE SERGEY,
DE Lcogane, Me de St. Dommque, travatlle
en fer Blanc, de loute forte de manieres »
omnnande ct a bon marclte.
A Philadelphie, ce 22 Juin, 17,93.
No. 23, Race-ilreet, pres Froouftreet.
NOTICE;
r |" , HE STOCKHOLDERS ui the SOCIETY
1 for ESTABLISHING USEFUL MANU
FACTURES, are reqnefted to take notice, that
the fourth and last payment is due, and mutt tie
made on or before tlic 13th day of July next,
either to the Cashier of the United States Bank.
Office of Bifcount and at Niw-Yark
the Cashier of rf« Bank of New-York —the
CalKicT of the Bank of the United States in Phi
ladelphia— or John Bayard, Esq. in the city ot
Ncw-Brurvfwick, iu the state of Nrv/-Jerfey.—
And that the (hares of all pcrfons neglect i go
make fnch payment, and the monies by them
previously paid, will then be forfaited for the
common bcnefit.of the said society.
That the fiiblcfiber is duly authorized to make
the rcquifite wdorfments upon t*ie.certificates of j
(hares, and that books of transfer are opened at
his office in Front-ftree*.
NICHOLAS LQVT.
Niw-Yerk, June it, '793.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. i 6, Wall-ilrect, New-York.
TfiESubfci iber intending to confine himfcli
entirely to the PURCHASE &. SALE of
STOCKS'on COMMISSION,b« gsleave 10 oU I
tier his fcr vices to hisfriendsand others, in the
li ne ot'a Stock Broker. Those who may plea ft
Co favor him with their business, may depend.
u;>on having it t ran fa ft ed with the utmost fide
lity and di ("patch.
Orders frorp PftUad'elphia, Boston, or any
other part<*f the United States, will be ftri&ly
attended to-
City of Washington.
January 7 th, 1793.
A NUMBER of Lois in this City will be of
fered: for sale at au&ion, by the Com.niif
t (ioners, on the - 17ch day of September next.—
; One fourth part of the purchase money is to be
paid do ; wn, the rcfidueat three equal annuel pay*
ments with yearly interest on the whole princi
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GAOTT, Clerk to the Ccm'ts.
: Extra#.9s an-A£t of the General AlTcmbly of
Maryland, concerning the Territoiy: of Co
lumbia, and the City ot Wafhiogton.
41 lie it enabled, That any foreigner may'by
deed or will, hereafter io be made, take and hold-lands
within that part of tkei J aid- Territory, which ties with'
in this State, in the.fa we manner' as if he was a citi2.
zen.6f this State ; and the fame lands tnav.be con*
ueyelby him, and traaftoitted to and be inherited-by
his heirs or relations, as if he andxtkey were citizens
of this State: Provided, That no foreigner JhaU,
in virtue hereof, be entitled to. any furrier or otiter
privilege of a citizen.7
J l9,
tickets
Inihc FEDERAL CITY LOTTERY,
Miv he had at SAMUEL COOH'.R'i Ferry
FOR SALE,
1360 Acrcs of excellent
FARMING or TOBACCO
epijw
L A N D S,
LYING hi the coOnty- of Arahvrfl; in the
(tote of Virginia, ofrmie of the principal
branches of Jameißiver, within fix- miles of
the latwr, Jrom wh*ner it iswm"gable for boa l
•of ten or i»el»f tons bit*. hrfn;'
Be fides the advantage* o* these iondt, for the
/aimer otr cultivator of tobacco, th'cv are sup
posed, from a finall though fnccefsful experi
ment made by the late Col. Chifwcll, o conta n
an abundance of iwtaj», which, if not of a p\e
ftfmr(as has been ec^B' 'are certainly of
a vety valnabJe Hyid. The better however to
atcerraio tins fact, and D/acc the purchnfei on a
fate .foot mg-, in so (if ■»•<!, m . d.bufi.uH, as a I
~I(iofs subterraneous relear. 3 s w , boot the u -
..njuftierta my of an abu»,i a „» the j ,j <€ j
ore, jKe-faoppfcd :o be, <V*s, rf..nahU a,,,
nrecHi.y affiftani. or .it l, e r. .
•ler d ihofe intliperi-r-.'ni>,; "■ the t ri „
A'ef! as every o J th-M , n f l()1( ,
bvtk • . » b'f't!!:-- il. r
[epu
LEO.NARD, BI.EF.CKEB-
TRXASr.RV Jar.r if.
XJ Ol ICE is hereby /u- prtipw*iib w ,j (
i if be received at the other of the Secretary 0 f
tbc Trcalury, until the fourteenth day of Sp
tenil»er next inclnfively, for i!ie f'tpply of ijj
Ration* which may he required for the of
the United from ihe fitft-dayof J«»nu i t
to the thirty-si.st day of December 1 7 g 4 ,
days inclufivc, at the plarrs, and wuhin t| lc
diftn&s hereafter mentioned, vi*.
1. At any place or places betwixt
ar.d Carlisle, in the Sale of Pennsylvania, a M< j
P tt{butgh,&ar PiitfWrgh.Yoik-towTi^Carhfif
2. At any place or pfaCes from Prffb:ir/h tV
the mouth of Big Beaver Creek, and 4tthe
of B*g B«aver Cicek.
3. At any place Qr place* from the fa id mowfH
to the upper Mb of the said Brg Bearer, and *t
the falls.
4. Ar any placeor places from the said upper
falls to Mahoning, and at Mahoning.
5. At any place or places f rom the (aid Ma
honing over to the HcacJ Navigation of the river
Cavahoga, and at the said Head Navigation.
6. At any place or places from the said Head
Navigation to the mouth of the said river Cap.
iioga, and at the said m6uth.
.7. At any place or places betwixt the mourii
of the Big Beaver Creek, to the mmath of th
rive r Mufkingum, and no the fjid r»»er to she
Tufcarowas, and at the Tufc» r owas, and thence
ovct to the Cftyshoga river, and thence dawath:
said river to its-mouth.
S. At any place or places betwixt the
of the river Mufkingum aod-tbe mouth 9$ - the...
Scioto river, and at tbc mouth of the laid xi*yr
Scioto.
9- At any place ot places betwixt the toq«ui
of Scioto river & the moutb of the Gre*» Miami,
at the month of the Great Mismi, and fr/>m
thence to the rapids or the falls of the Ohio, and
at the said rapid's.
to. At any prtace or places betwixt the mouth
of the GVeat Miami, up the laid Miami to aixj
at Pique Town.
21. At any place or places from Fort Waft,
ington to Fort Hamilton, and at Fort Hamilton
At any place or places from Fori Hamiltoa to
Fort S». Clatr, and at Fort St. Glair.
12. At any place or places from Fort St. Clair
to Fort Jrfferfon, and at Fo»t Jcfferfon.
13. At any place or places fh*m Fort Jo'fferfo*
to the field of afilion of the 4' to of November,
1791, and at the said field ot difction.
14. At any place or places f»om tht said fold
of artion to thfc Miami Vtil-ages* and at th«
Miami Villages.
15. At any place ojr.places from the fyid Mfi
ami Villages to the falls of the ; Miami river,
which empties into Lake Erie, and at-thefeid
falls, and from thence to its mouth, and at it*
mouth.
Is. At any place or peaces from the mouth of
the said Miami river of Lake-&rie to
Lake, and at Sanduf]k.y Lake.
17. At any place or places from the fyid San*
dusky Lake, to the mouth of the river Gayahoga^.
18. At any place or places from the mouth ciE
the said river Cay'ahog? to Pfefque Jfle, and at
Prtfque I fT.\
19 At any place or placf s from Prefqu. ifij.
to the ftnpatn* running into tafce En'« (ram in
wards the-ladaghque Lake, and thence uver to
and at the said J'adaghqiie Lake,and thence dov.'a
the Alleghany river to Fort Franklin-.
20. At any placeior? piaces from Prefqoe I fie
to Le Beuf, aud at. lie &euf.
21. At any place or places frnm Pe B*et»f to
Fort. FranMirt, and at. Foil Franklin, and from
thence to Pittlburgh.
22. At any plaoe or p.la<sesJrom the rapidvof
the Ohio to the mouth of the Wabafh-river, and
from the mouth oiih* said Wabafti. rivertl© tb#.
mouth" of the river. Oh in.
23. At ;>ny p!?cc or plaqcs on rhr Eaftvfid* of
the river Mifliftippi, from the,raouth of the Ohio:
river, to the mouth ol the Illinois river.
24. At any place or places fiom the mouth oJ
the laid Wabafii river up to F®rt Knox, and at
Fort Knox.
25. At £ny place of pla'cca froth Fpri Knojfnp.
the (aid Wabalh to Oaitlaoon, and at Ouittanon.
p. 6. At anv- place or places from' (fru'iUamfti,
up the (did Wabdfti, to the head navigation ol a
branch thereof called Little River, and at th.si.
laid: head navigation of Little "Kprer.
27. At any pla< e or places from the saM bead
navigation of Liale River over ta rhc Oirt*iflWP
,8 gP» s
28. At any platfe or places from the mouthof
the river TeoelTee to Occochappo 01 Bear Creek,
on the said river^inclufively
29. At any place or peaces the mouth of"
the river Cumberland to Nalhviile, on thfc'faid'
river, and at Nadiville..
go- And at auy place or places within thirty
miles ol said toafhville to the Southward, Wtft
ward or Northward thereof.
Should any rations be required at any place?,
or within Other diftri&s, not fpe.eliied in tbrfe
proposals, the price of the fame t>e here.»ttcr
agreed On betwixt the public .and the contractor.
Th'e rations to be fuoplied are to confilluf the
foN6wjOg irticles, viz.
One pound of bread or fljur,
One pound ot beef, or | of a pound of pork,
One quart of ftflf, )
Mwo quarts of vinegar. f
Tvro potm<ls of. fiap, >P" 100 ratlorl3 -
One pound-os candles, )
The rations arctobe furnifhed in fuc'H quanti
ties as that there shall at a-!! times, during iftrfadP
term, be fuffitient tor the confurnption of the
troops- at each of the said posts.« f#r the space of *t
Jel-ft 3 months in in good and witdlet
some provifions, v if the fame (ball be required.
It i>to tyeunderftood "in each cafe,that allloffei
fudaincd by the deprecations oftfre enemy, or by
means of thetroopsof the United 'States, Avail be
paid lor at the pi tccs-of the article* captured or
oeftrdyed, on the depofitrioos of two or more
redltable charters, and the certificate of "Si
■'.»mm ; flionrd officer, ?fccrtainlng the circum
iiin-cs.»{ aelofs; and the amount of the articles
I or which conipeafation is tlaimed.
Tit" the above fuppiies will he
madv either sot one var, or tor two years, »»it> a y
eligible. Persons difpoied to contVao
will therefore confi ie offers to one year, or
hey inav make th«»ir proportions so as to admit
an elettion o<f. thr term of two years.
The offers may romprtfe ?H the place 6 which