t'l ..
~ =: ~ " '~"~ : "*"' "'•■ ■1 ■ ■'" *'' "111 "■ ' '" ' ' I 11 ' ■
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUIipSHbD WEDty£SQAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO> No. 34, NOPTH FIFTH-STftE&T, PHILADELPHIA.
' ~~ ,/" !"■ ' ' > f><t> (f\; . "■'/».,!) 1 Jim i i l,vyv- 1 ;'!" i, v . ,:i f . m f 11 111 /" "■ 1 '.'j""',' yy*' :'
■ [No. A :^->! F s*■" 1" : [Whol © .45'fsJ'
FOR THL GAZETTE.
TO TilE PEOPLE.
HAVE the Americans a right to go a pri
vateering agamft any nation, w-hile Ame
rica is at peace wife all the world ? That
they have 110 fiich right is declared by the
President ; and the fudges of the supreme
court are d.robtlefs of the tame opinion. Kut
tlie-e is party in some of the States who sup
port an opposite opinion. They contend that
art American citizen may when he p eufies en
ter 011 board a foreign privateer while the
United States 1 afe at peace. When we con-
Jider the conduct of this party in Philadelphia
during the late trial of a privateer's-nun, the
proofs of joy they afterwards exhibited, and
the late publications that seem Xb have been
made by some of them, indecent bevondd
their usual efforts; when we consider also that
the head of that party fcttnn to have appealed
to the people'm oppofjtion to the fenfe'of the
•executive, with the hope, as we mult Aippofe,
ofcauftog infurrettions and overturning the
government, it must be hig;h time for cvrrj
citizen to consider the fribjeft fully and fay
whether kw i« for war or pesice.
Be not deluded my fellow-citizens by the
icW? parade of wordy lawyers or frothy poli
ticians, there is but one question before us.—
It is the question of War or Peace—and the
true object of all the privateer Vmen is d ge
ruralWaj, whatever they may pretend to the
contrary, for their measures tend to inevita
ble war. You will be pleased to think on this
subject an(i give your opinions.
The argument used by the party in oppo
sition to government, I do nos know whe
ther they, are tifually called for the lake ot
<lUlm&ion, pi ivateer's-men or Geneteens, is
that a citizen of America, living in America,
may when he pleases change his allegiance,
that he may this minute be an American, and
on the next minute, without change of place,
he may, by a kind of hocus pocus or le&ev de
main, be a French, an or a Dutch
man. That being thus he
may Chip him lie If ou board the armed fliip of
Iris adopted foreign nation, he may go to. sea
and plunder or take the (hips of people with
Avhom the Americans are at peace, may
bring thole lhips iqt" American ports and
fell them a'; pood prizes. Le.t us trace the
natural conclulions from this argument.— ,
French privateers tliey fay may be fitted in !
American ports and American citizens may j
become Frenchmen in our towns. If part of
the crew of a French privateer may be Ame
ricans, nick named French, certainly the
Whole crew may be of the fame class. If one
man may purchase and fit out a vessel for
eruifing against the trade of a nation with
whom we are at peace, every other man .may
do the fame thing. Our ship owners may be
tranfrnufied into Freiichmen as well as ou/
teamen. In this cafe there may soon be fclty
rtr an hundred privateers at sea, cruizing
against ths trade of Spain, Holland, Jwvgland
a«d Germany, mak'n&defcentsoo their iflinds
or their European dominions, aivd plundering
their ftibje&s. All tl*e prizes or plunder must
come into the United States for the accom
modation of the captors when they Iball think
fK again t<* call tbemfelces Americans. It
might so happen that not a finale man of afl
this privateering armada had ever been in
France—all of them birn in Amcrica and re
taining the privileges of American citizens ;
but the people of the United States are all
this time supposed to be inofferfive and peace
able ! Suppose any of the injured nations
should complain that Americans had taken
■their veflels and (hould demand reparation,
mirjfuhtile politicians are prepared with an an
swer j—we are to reply that those Americans
had changed their country, while they were
cruizing, and we disowned them ? Would this,
do you think, be a fatisfaftory answer ? Old
Judiams make treaties of peace with us and
•young Indians kill our fellow-citizens ; when
we complain of the breach of peace, the blame
is conftantjy ia»d, not upon people wbo ceafe«d
to lie Indians, but upon di{orderlyyoung people;
the nation do not make themselves anfwera
b\e. The policy of out pi ivatter's-men is an
-improvement on savage perfidy ; their out
rages \rjll «urt be committed by aiforderiy peo
yle of the United States,but bv frendirrm who
<b<jd been Americans before they went oh
Jboard and will be Americans when they come
on fbore.
Suppose wc should declare war to-morrow
England, Spain and Holland, what is
to be done ; it is generally supposed that our
whole exertions must he confined to priva-
sgainfl their commerce, bat this is
the very th ner ©ur politicians would eifeft by
their new fa/Kioned system of neutrality.*-
T hie re would be no diiference in substance,
finue ditferepice there might be in ftiadow.—-
in one cate ve ihouki cruise with a striped
cockle, in the otber cafe with a black one.
In 01 tv cafe we fhottkt cruize under a falfe
n:wiie, in the other cafe withotir proper name.
S»ch a -did imftion mav be good for children at
plwy. for sober men or for nations it is too
coi. iciuptible to b* mentioned.
in M n wivily a pity tfeat tbe property, the
T7TT
| J; i&V}sv:iv,'c'i ' jS. i.. ,!,7'
I vfSfOfir
5 fteo W fee ifn3?ps«*td fry'St teW, ,f*riv <
' »».{, *fc* F ,a ft.« f »fi wlio K»M
* to work arc delirousoj -Ahbing ,qa fiie rng.n
I Rav' "* fiavv *tia
1 France 'wftl jlfttfy fertii* fii»lfe«fe^4tno»«fßrtia
* rtis* d Vfft'liwi trfJlieutnJltM, but jehefei *er«
> men are going to crui»e .*B%"s t[#j ,putcb T
ai*l .fcnvw t?o ,e 0,1
' oyr accoijijt fh« war than th?
* FieiuMi; wliya'jes.gWititucte' tW
H<ilTai|ri<.Vputi ii4 J (i«'ttrt?rij?®Strch
■' rtfcrv he* rrtifelMfotfto Wte'ftian wl»«'\vi(htn Jur
an'icKUfcw IVi»i property "that, is; '*,1
1 njyri; by injtjir«i ?)*►"'>* they »ib 4 be. r*-
, girded as intuit tqtojjjr;r-. Th?y. will
' not fail to di'covir that tiiey Wve been struck
■ by"Afi>erVcar>y. • 1 »*' "" ""*
', 'fiV* toWd'tny'fWiW'-tWizart'v r>
! We ititjfrfirmly frt dar flipoxteri
' agaSnftsthhtwicle' ol" privateering, 1»r rant
' ttes ni.jn of American Frcnch
\ ▼e'oiuft go t" , >v?.r with . Spaiiij E«-
i giand anff jtojtand.' 'If toil prefer ftea'ce' you
wtfl'aft iscordi'rfgly. ! W * ~'. Mjto'Wßg •
FOR THE CAZFJTf. ,
Mr. Fen.no,
Please to give a place in your tfazeVt to the fo'low.
ing ohfervatioru The Printers xu'w may have re
publifked the piece*. Pacific us, are a/si
requeued to re-puhhjh theft, and wiU w doubt be
candid enough to do Jo.
O £VERAL pieces with t'te (igrfature of Pa-
O cific-js were lateJy puMi filed, whith have
"been read with (angular and applftufe,
by the foreigners and degenerate citizens a
mong us, who hate our republican govern
ment, and the ,French revolution; whilst the
publication seems to have been too little re
garded, or too mfcch despised by the steady
fVier.ds to both.
Had the do<Shines inculcated by the writer,
with the natural consequences from them,
been nakedly presented to the public, this
treatment might have been propei. Their
true character would then have (truck every
eye, and been rejectee! feelings of eve
ry heart. But they offer themselves to the rea
der in the drefsof an elaborate differtattan ;
they ate mingled with a few truths that may
serve them as a paflporr -to .credulity $ and
they are introduced with profeffions ol anxi
ety for the preservation of peace, for the
Welfare of the government, and for the re
fpeft due to the parent heßd of the execu
rive, that may prove a snare to patriot!fin.
Ititbele difgut:fes they have eppeared to
claim tlie attention 1 propose to lieftow on
them; with a view to (hew, front the publi
cation itfelf, that under colour of vindicating
an important public act, of a chief magif
trnte, whoenjoys Hie confidence and love of
his country, principle 1 ! are advanced whirii
ftrilpe at the vitals of its constitution, as well
as at its honor and true interest.
As it is not improbable that attempts may
be made t<> apply inlinnations which are fel
doni spared when particular pnrpoles are to
be anfwercd, to the author of the ensuing »b
---fervation.», it may i»t be improper to pre
mise, that he is a friend to the constitution,
that he withes for the preservation of peace,
and that the present chief magistrate has not
a fellow-citizen, who is penetrated with deep
er refpeft for his merits, or feels a purer so
ltcitude for his glory. '
This declaration is made with no view of
courting a more tavorable ear to what may be
said than it deserves. The I'ole purpo'e of
it is, to obviate imputations which might
weaken the imprcffions of truth ; and wtiich
are the more likely to be resorted to, in pro
portion as solid and fair arguments may be
wanting.
The substance of the firft piece, lifted from
its inconsistencies and its vague expressions,
may be thrown into the following' propor
tions :
That the powers of declaring war and |
making treaties are, in their nature, execp- !
tive powers :
That being particularly vested by the con
stitution in other departments, they are to be
confrdered as exceptions out of the general
grant to the execmtve department r
That being, as exceptions, to be construed ;
ftriftly, the p<»wers not ftri&ly within them,
remain with the executive :
That the executive consequently, a< the
organ of iiltercoiwfe witn foreign nations,
and the interpreter and executor of treaties
and the law of nations, is autborifed, to ex
pound all articles of treaties, thnfe involving
quelt'ions of war and peace, as well as others;
—to judge of the obligations of the ITrtWed
States to make war or not, under any cafus
federis or eventual operation of the cont raft,
relating to war {» «and, to pronounce the Rate
of things refuUing from the obligation- of
the United States, a§ understood by the exe
cutive :
That in particular the executive bad au
thority to .judge whetber in the ca4« ol th«
?' ;
Number I,
513
» .(C *• .• ' ■){ : . "II '
«».«4»l«u|Nntnri blttWOMt Itif United ftfttM ,
.France, b«mnd by if to ,
«iW in the.war s ' ; * . . ?
'VTliat piliAiancfe «f :
fferta-fitWity, decided tliat ihe United Stiates i
*»•* A»t I>ound f»- Amt r " °i
That its proclamation of the 22d of April i
lafl, kto be taken as the efFect and exprefiion |
of that decifioti.
The basis of the reasoning : s, we perceive,
the exttaordinary do&rine, that the powers j
of making war and treaties, are in their na- |
ture executive ; and therefore comprehended
in the general grant of executive power,
where not fpeciaUy and itii&ly excepted out
of the grant.
Let us examine this d'o&rine ; and that
we may avoid the pofflbillty of miftating the
writer, it fhallbe laid down in his own words :
a precaution the more neccflary, as scarce
any thing else could outweigh the improbabi
lity, that so extravagant a tenet ihould be
hazarded, at so early a day, in the face of the
public.
His xrftrds ate— 44 TRwo of [excep-
qualifications to the executive pow
ers] have been aJrendy .noticed —the partici
pation of the Senate in the appointment of offi
cers. and the making 0/ treaties. A third re
mains to be mentioned—the right of the le
gislature to dedare war, and grant lettets ej
marque and riprifa/S'
Again—'"Vdeferves to be remarked, that
is the participation of the Senate in the mak
ng treaties, and the power oi the legislature
:o dec/art war, are exceptions out of the general
recutivepower, veftcd In the Preficienr, they
ire to be court rued jiri<7/v, and ought to be ex- ;
rnded nofarther than izejfcntial to their exe
rution."
If there be any countenance to these pofi
lions, it must be found e-ther I ft, in the wri
ifcrs, of Authority, on public law ; o'r 2tl, in
:he quality and operation of the powers to
nake war and treaties ; or 3d, in the con di
lution of <thc United Stares.
11 would be of little nfe to enter far into
he? firft source of information, not only be- .
our owil reason and our own conttitu
ion, are the best guides ; but because a just
malyfiK and discrimination vi the powers of
government, according to tiieir executive,
egiflative and judiciary qualities are not to
>e expected in the works of the most receiv
ed jurffts, who wrote before a critical atten
;ion was paid to rhofe objects, and with their
eyes too much 00 mooarehical governments,
vhere all.powe/s are confounded in the fovc
eignty of the prince. It will be found how
ever, I belive, that ajj of them, particularly
W.olfius Burlamaqui and Vattel,fpeak of the
lowers to declare war, to conclude peace, and
10 form alliances, as among the highest a&s
)f tie sovereignty ; of which the legislative
>ower must at least be an integral and pre
eminent part.
Writers,fuchas Locke and Montesquieu, who
lave difcufled more particularly the principles
if liberty and the ftru<sture of government, lie
under the fame difadvantagc, of having writ
ten before these fubje&s were illuminated by
the events and discussions which diftinguifli a
very recent period. Both of thein too are
evidently warped by a regard to the par
ticular government of England, to which one
of them owed allegiance; * and the other pro
feijed an admiration bordering on idolatry.
Montesquieu, however, has ratherdiftingui/h
---ed himfelf by enforcing the reasons and the
importance of avoiding a confufion of the
several powers of government, than by enu
merating and defining the powers which be
long to each particular class. And Locke,
notwithstanding the early date of his work 011.
civil government, and the example of his
own government before his eyes, admits that
the particular powers in queflion, which, af
ter some of the writers on public law he calls
federative, are really dijiinQ from the executive,
though alinoft always united with it, and
hardly to be feperated into dijlinft hands,. Had he
not lived under a monarchy, in which thele
powers were united ; or had he written by
the lamp which truth now patents to law
givers, the last observation wbuld probably
never have dropt from his pen. But letusqmt
a field of research which is more likely to per
plex than to decide, and bring the question to
other tests of which it will be more easy to
jud^e.
2. If we confidt for a moment, the nature
and operation of the two powers to declare
war and make treaties it will be itnpoffible
not to fee that they can never fall within a
proper definition of executive powers. The
natural province of the executive mag'fttate
is to execute laws, «is that of the legislature
is to make laws. All his atts therefore, pro
perly executive, must pre-fuppofe the exig
ence of the Jaws to be executed. A treaty is
not an execution of laws : it does not pre
suppose the exifient e of Uws. It is, on the
contrary, to have itfelf the force of a law,
and to he carricd into exuulioty like all other
* Tht-chapter on prerogative, Picks houi much
tke rffon t>f the phi/ofipner uas by tU roy
a-'ifm of tic kngltjhmj*.
/aw.r 9 by the executive magi-jf?> To fay then
that t'»e power of making treaties which are
confefledly law*, belongs naturally to the de
partment which is toe.xecute law-?, is to Fay,
that the executive department naturally in
cludes a legiflativc power. In theory, tiais is
an absurdity—in practice a tyranny.
The power to declare war is fuhjeft so si
milar reasoning. A dfcclaratidn that there
fliall be war, is nor an execution of* laws : it
does not fuppofc pre-existing laws to be exe
cuted : it is not in anv refpeft, an a& merely
executive. It is, on the contrary, one of the
moil deliberativea£ts that can be performed ;
and when performed, has the etfeft of re
pealing all the law? operating in a ft Ate of
peace, so far as they are inconsistent with a
state of war : and of enabling as a rule for the
executive, a netvcode adapted to the relation be
tween the society and its foreign enemy. In
like manner a conelufion of peace annuls all
the latui peculiar to a state of war, and revives
the general laws incident to a state of peace.
These remarks will be fireiVgthened by ad
ding that treaties, particularly treaties ot
peaee, have fofae times the efife<sl of Changing
nor only the external laws of the fociery, but
operate alto on t)»e internal code, which is
purely municipal, and tQ which the legislative
authority of the country is of* itfe'f compe
tent and com pleat.
From this view of the fubjeft it mnft be
evident, that although the executive may be
a convenient organ of preliminary commu
nications with foreign governments, on the
fubje&s of treaty or war ; and the proper
agent for carrying into execution the final
determinations of the competent authority ;
yet it can have no pre ten (tons from the nature
of the powers in question compared wirh the
nature of the executive rruft, to that eflen
tiaJ agency which gives validity to such de
terminarions.
It must be further evident that, if these
powers be not iti their nature purely legisla
tive, they partake so much more of that, than
of any other quality, that under a confHtu
tion leaving then) to r.cfult to their oiott na
tural department, the legiflatuie would be
without a rival in its cl-aint.
£ The rejidut of this rtumber will appear in our next J
F&H mE-^A2»tc£:
f m l i • 1
Mr. F f.n Mo,
I HAVE obfe-ved with fonie pTtafute fche
'gradual of certa : n terrtvs fefr
merly irt lift? amongst U«*, invidioujly calculated
todiftinguifh I'ome men, polfeHing
met it in public stations, or eminently virtu
ous in private life, iVom others, in whom
those qualities are not To conspicuous, as.d
having a dangerouk tendency to destroy rlriit
equality without which we cannot be said to be
jree*
In the room of tlie-fe disparaging epithet*!,
we have happily introduced other phrases Co
congenial to the rpirit or freedom, that hay
ing at the befl: no meaning at all, they may be
moulded by a temporizing incendiaiy to the
purposes, firft of m.fleading his followers,
and, when his party becomcs ltrong enough,
of bearing down his opponents.
It is not without fatisfa&ion that I find
the term Prefideut becoming so very offenfive
to, some citizens, though I must con&fs, that
my joy i 1? considerably abated on this occa
sion, bv the mortifying lefletfion that few or
none t>f the true citizens of the United States
have Qtlopttd this or include in it,
person of our chief magistrate—the rape of
modern liberty having not, as yet, entirely
destroyed that reverence for eminent talents
and virtue which have heretofore been deemed
neceflary In oor .rulers.
I have unfortunately made use of the word
magijlrate, and indeed, as matters are yet cir
cumstanced—l could not well get over it
it has an ugly found, and a more dejlrufrive
meanivg char. Prefidenr, which tignifies no more
in this country, ev£n jn the mouths of mo
dern reformers than one man unanimouily
chosen bv his feHow-cifizens to preside over
a government rationally free and framed by
themselves—by which his power and duty is
unequivocally prescribed.—Whereas the other
l>einfif applicable under various modifications
to all governments y gives us a general idea of
order, and the fhameful neceflity of fubmittHig
to it.—An alarming idea ! which strikes at
the very root of •* the plartit we have laboured
to rear"—our darling mongrel exotic, J-iberty
and Equality.
But fear not my fellow-reformers—behold
Avjiocral and Democrat coming to your aid—-
these unmeaning giants fliall work wonder*
for you.—The magical founds of Aristocrat
and Democrat, in the mouth of any jug/er,
fliall turn your chaff into wheat, transform an
honed man a knave and a pimp into a
patriot.
t have msrMfcr Mmarked with ttrach de
light, tb« advancement of our cult iM.tkc
augmentation of our force* from V j udicio oi
management of the vprdi »»d
KenHmtn.—lf* a Virtuirul Aiherican, ants con
feqfefttly a lover of Ftact and LBtrty, fltebld
fpvfck ;n general termi M'*He fatal cafeHuitiatIciMkwrf il t<t*6levcf, «hi 4 (b«« we
(VUW UlMfciyii us BirmWiUraaw-.
On the H>:e*r n ar «T
m * di&ilte, bur.
liis rhsutxedltes it y. mod like- tp be)
is l y M<i IliUlWi att
dagfrfytiniVvcr WPth the oajii'c of
'tW<f>oU*&\4 nftliniifit) ft. tie but a ptdujt.
gaflaut people, yet, being
tbe prevail.
V r V>ore iiini the
itj.a.r »>cK' r <>l' a foiiitd Jndfl^ti£ab|£,'£yU
gntt**' *>. t»Jt« .DB#f j :«bat *'
wJlliKfJ. /»Vws, pientii>i*ed .
' t«rm< tikto&hhft oqt.the
. . al-.,
. yourniVicix- [
tiut|v.fp>» Jlit of fforcct .fftufth. I I
-wi j-ijipjiy iliffilay '
pprffcin.*r|)«je ,co>iidn& had »l- j
■Mwtyn tytifjyv<»f*i>W t» the, wel- j
1»« -#'ilijj op«u try, happening tu express bim
fylf «ri*.|p4r)peis modejatk.ii ■
»ot tti'our j
bt«iW:e«. with :♦>•» ufW ♦eberotiu-e, irame (
tirvrwly affajjwl Itiitiwltjr the W»H ds, JW>j<v7, i
. "t- Kn^tJom»u—-t(ii? had {Be deiifed *f-
a -ilop tB hijTok/eT*3ti*'Si *l»d atf; ;
near » miinit« p«oduced cbh '
»> i o»s#e^'.'
fyfiAkk fiJjfS-tm, tM* BafeV '
appear is ynftf>y«>l Jbalt- ttill rfaliV'
to"tpMa'in. fo»—I diCtJfcfm aH yo«r-niuneapihjj
EtislMliinan, iiOT f J'rt»icl«na«t, l»it I am, what
i i>> il■ infinitely beffiliitthCm all, an Ameri
can and a Repabij* an.'' So Otylvg,- be iiiarch
cd off with »n ajr of conscious propriety.
Tin on my frieitils'aittt 'in this miiriner de
tect aJljrpttr en«£ies, tStl, ilvfc' t u(h.ril route
prevail, whei)
fi£. ariftocrjtte Ai»cJtt«s dfgovernment aud
•.cVll locieiy Qiall bo eitt»rc]y brotttepi, and (he
•>«ii'iE=h< of tbe Onited $itajrcs enjoy
Rifclits ol' Man. . -. CATjiiINE.,
Foreign Intelligence.
F £ A N C E.
NATIONAL CONVEN HON.
Sitting if Sunday,
A LETTER was read from the
MinHter Claviere, dated the
firft of June, at 8 o'clocb in the
morning—be complains of having
been compelled by reiterated incn.i
e'es to abandon his pod, prays the
Convention to place his pei sou be
neath the fafeguard of the
to cause his i o be examined.
Referred to i lie committee of Public
Safety, with direction to report con
cerning the uiinilter Clavieie.
One of the i>ecretaries read a let
ter fi.oiu the Cominillaries of the
departments of Haute Loire and of
Lozere, united at Saint Cliely ; they
;iiiiiouiice that Marvej>>ls is in the
power of the Itifur.geirts ; that
Mandes is ready to falj ijito their
hands, and that already the blood
us the Patriots had been Ihed. The
Cum mill'ai ies transmitted 10 the
Convention, ah arret which they
bad published for the purpose of
drawing from all quarters succours
O'i niCnj arih's, and ammunition.
> A member afl'ured the Convention
that marvejols was not in pofieilioii
iif the rebels, that the town was in
a condition to make a long refill
&nce, at lealt that it would not be
t pic en by surprize.
*> Couthon—l demand that the Com
nMffarles sent to ibe department of
Lozere, be authorjfed to take all
Cuch mealures as they shall judge
proper, 10 ari elt the progi ess of the
lebellipDi Decreed.
Lanjiiinais—l demand permilfion
lo make a uigtion of ofd«r in refer
ence to wliat partes on every fide of
us, in regnrd to lhe condition in
whicli we are, in relation) to the
gtnerale, ivbich ive contihiuillj bear
beating— (ibe fpeakcr is interrupted
by uinnnurs. ihe Prcfident consults
tjie Afleinbly, and Lanjuinak Iras'
periniiiion to proceed) — I will speak
j(fajd lie) plain but iiiterefling
itruths ; not fucli as will be injuri
ous to liberty, but such as will pro
xiOote the fafety of the Republic ; it
ir notorious, that for three days
pall, you have been deprived of the
power of deliberation, that you have
been improperly influenced from
within and without; and that an
authority which rivals your's, now
lurroutids you with their hirelings.
1 £ [Here began violent clamours,
' with a cry of dwi, tiii4Ji.,.do-wn. j. .
Lanjuinais cdijUMjuei^ —For three
days pait you ha*e witnelied a tlion
\ land irregularities and disorders :
an ambitious power has raffed lifelf
by your fide ; ic has revived the
troubles which it on the fir It day
affected to appeal'e.
Nothing has been rcfpedted, not
even the inviolable feerecy of lec
ters—they have prevented my re
ceiving from the coinuiuue and ten
uous of Rennes, a letter which de
dales that 1 have defervcd well df
my country. [Here Lanjuinais was :
ltoppe'd by murmurs and hootings.]
Drotiei — I affirm that the fatt ad
vanced by Lanjuinais is falfe, and
that the secrecy of letteVs ha*' not
been violated. The Ditec r torof the
poll is piefcnt, let hia» be Wtfard.
Lanjuinais rcfunies bis speech—A
new committee has usurped the func
tions of tlie executive council; many
other committees have in like man
ncr afiumed the placet of theconfti
to;ed authorities. The revolution
ary committees of the fetftions con
tinue 10 exercise the powers which
you have declared not to belong to
liieui. A provisional commandant
has been named contrary, to law ; a
new iiene is in pi epaiation ; you
will wirnefs it in a few hours. On
Ttour-Way 1 predicted what would
take place—prui* this day by my
predictions. Yellerday you were
prcfenied wiih a new lilt of pro
fcciptions; what have you done,
you have referred it to the commit
tee of public fafety—and thereby
annulled the decree which declared
the address presented against 22 of
your colleagues to be calumnious.
[Loud clamours here again inter
rupted Lanjuinais ; Legendre and
fonte other members rufhirig for
ward to the Tribune; the tumult
continues, the Prefiderit put on his
hat; order is reftoi ed with difficul
ty]— Lanjuinais concludes, by-de
manding ihat the revolutionary au
thorities ellablifhed in Paris^' sos"
three days part, should be abolished,
that their aJts fhopld be annulled ; ;
and that henceforth any perfoii who
should ufurpan illegal power,fhould- 5 i
be declared without the protection
of the law, and that any Citizen
might put him to death.
The debate was here interrupted
—the Prelidenc announced a depu
tation from the forty eight seCtions,
and from all the conftiluted autho
rities of Paris, demanding to .be
heard at the bar—admission was in
rtantly decreed, the deputation pre
sented ihemfelves, and he who spoke
f on their behalf, said—
Deputies of the people—during
four days the people of Paris have
not quitted their arms, the peace is
preierved, and their, perleveraiiie
applauded—but the pillars of the
; temple are fliook, the counter-revo
' lutionifts have, dared to ralfe their
' heads, let them however tremble,:
' the thunder is lTeartl, and it w+tt- [
' quickly confound and dettroy ttjern.
The crimes of the fadtiotis member
1 of the National Aflembly arekttown;
1 we conic to denounce them for the
1 last time j instantly dccree that they
arc no longer worthy of the liati
- onal confidence—put them in ar
rest, we will answer it to their de
partments with our heads—The
f iafety of the people is yet-for a md
-1 luent in your hands; pref'erve k ;
e or We declare to you, that we our
e selves will interpof'e. [Loud ap
plauses.] The Aflembly, after con
, i'ultatioii, refers the petition to the
committee of public lafety.
f After coiifulting when the report
i fliould be made, it was ordered to
e be within two days—The deputies
r of the provisional commune after
1 this order withdrew, in the'rnittft
s of reiterated appUufes.
s Cambon—The committee of pub
-4 lie fafery are now aflembled, aiid if
I you will give us half an hour, we
will prefer.t you the measures ne
ceflary to save the Republic.
c Richou, made a motion, for a de
s cree for a provisional arrefi of the
; deputies who had been denounced,
■ in order thereby to prevent Uiemif
-1 fortunes with which they weie
1 threatened—the tumult continues.
' It is demanded that the fitting of the
• " committee of public lafety should
514
1 be permanent until they report on
the state of Paris.—Decreed. V. V;
Leva(Te til.opens ihe difcullion con
ceriiing .ihe arrcit of the denouueed
deputies.
Lacroix offers the plan of a decree
neceliary to remedy the evils expe
rienced in the departments of the
inferior Loire—Let the National
Convention recall the Citizen Cou
ftaed, and let tlietn decree rhat those
persons who have been set at liberty
after having been seized as fufpecl
ed, (hould he again confined ontil
)we ar's : able to obtainmove full in
formation: This plan of a decree
-was adopted. Julien,ot 1 ooloufe,
demanded as an amendment that
the comoi jftaries sent into the de
part mferifuf Loire> fliou-ld also be
recalled. Decreed.
Barreire had permiffionto present
meafnres to be adopted for the pub
lic fafety—he proposed to the de
put res who itood denounced, l<>
make a facrifice of their rights to
the public fafety, and to.deposit, for
a time, their powers upon the altar
of their country —You are not igno
rant, said he, addressing himfelf to
them, that your presence interrupts
our deliberations, and flops the la
bors of the Convention—give to
lyour cqnftituents this mark of your
love of your country, and thecoun
try shall be saved. He finally pro
. posed the following decree :
tft. The National Aflembly pro
nounces the suspension of the mem
bers who have been the caufeof ilte
inquietudes of the people.
2d. They shall be under the pro
tection of the department of Varift.
3d. The Convention shall employ
itTelf during their present fitting to
nominate the ininifters to replace
- Bouchoue, Le Brun and Claviere.
Ifnard declared that he ftifpended
hlmfelf, and immediately took his
feat on Che bench of the petitioners
—Santhonax and Dufaulx followed
Ifnard's example—Fauchet, my lite
*is at the disposal of my couiiii^f; I
am willing to offer it as a facrifice.
Barbaioux —I declare that I can'
not suspend myfelf from a power
that is not my own.
Lanjuinais—l have proved thslt I
love my country, I will not now be
lie myfelf—therefore you are hot
to iixpetft tny ■voluntary •
or diiuiifiloii—l can make no facri
fice j we are now in ?he midlt of
bayonets, and before the mouths of
cannon ; the debate is refmned -le
fpedting live project of a decree of
feied by Ban ere; frequent inter
ruptions took place, a tumultuous
debate arose in relation to the arm
ed with which vhe hall was
surrounded, and which hindered:
the deputies the citizens.ofthe
tribunes from palling the thi elhpld
of the door ps a , sudden ail .the
•deputies exclaimed that- fliey were
no longer free !
At leven o'clock the President
>roke up the fining by adjourning
liie project of Bai l ere ; the Aflem
bly immediately rushed ouc in a bo
dy to fraternife with the armed ci
tizens who fitrrounded the national
palace ; after which they ve-entpr
ed their hall—Couthoii, all mem
bers of the Aflembly Ihould poll'els
a confidence that they are free ;• you
have jtill found 011 ail (ides., and at
every step, a people who are good,
but irritated, and desirous of jus
tice.
I do not at this time vote in favor
of the decree of acculation againll
the denounced members, but feeing
that the opinion is llrongly maiii
fefted agaiirft them, I demand that
they be put in arrelt in their own
houses; 1 comprehend in my motion
the comiuiilion of twelve, and the
the miniiters Le Bi un and Claviere ;
this propofitioii was adopted.
The members arretted are Verg
niaux, Barbaroux,Salles, Genfonne,
Guadet, Petion, Brifl'ot., Chain lion,
Buzot, Biroteau, Liduu, Lafource,
Goifas, Lanjuinais, Grangoneuve,
Lehatdy du M.oii>ihm, Lefage, Lou
yet, Valaze, ilie members of ilie
coniniiflion of twelve, excepting
tliofe who did not sign certain or
ders of arrest, and the niinifteis
Claviere and Le Bruii are also ar
retted.
'J he lilting adjourned at ten
o'clock.
. r. ..
United States.
1 1
R J C H M O X D # Aufluft tj.
The following quetfciori is proposed tor dtf
coflion at the next meeting ol a certain facieiy —■
WHETHER the late Proclamml on n i on,,
mending to the citizens a ftnet ncuirjinr, oculs
:o prodncc Goad or LviliWln other wrri'ds—-
Whether depriving jfpru JCw aery wurut Piilnj s
of the choice of filling 4-ii< «r uuili.s't»v 4/t Matter
ing, and some o'hers ot tilling high Unions in
the line and stats, cad be conjpenf./ied By iavinj
two or thiee millions of peaceable citizens from
rhe blood (hed, loifcs, and dii&fcifc*, wh«clv «
ftaie of war will certainly feting r>o tin ®
O, the gloi ious. 11 inr s ofc caul a/ton, march ing,.
coudter-marching, imputing and drafting ;
When Negto p»ope»ty irr particular, wnl be
si ioiecuie that thole who arc wuimui inay have
Negroes for a long.
The Captains of the three Independent Coin,
oames of Hotfe, Gtenadicrs and Light-Infantry
of this city, reqneft Mr. Pleafants, editor of the
Richmond and Manchester Advertiser, 10 con- •
tradi& a paragraph in hit paper of Mouday Uft,
viz. (thai their Independent Companies paraded
on Satu'day the 10th of August, to celebrate
that day) They never did, nor never intend to .
celebrate the bloody massacre of tnoufands of
their fellow-creatures. _ r
JOHN WILSON, Capt. Grm?dicrs. '
WM. RICHARDSON 1 , Capt. Inf. *
WM. AUSTIN, Lieut.Lt. Dr-g.-
Richinond % Angujl 14, 1793-
GEORGE-TOWN, Angnft 17.
By a census of the inhabitants of the City
of Walhington, taken on the 12th inft. it ap
pears, that the number exceeds 820, and that
for the last fix months, there has not the death
of either man or:woman taken place in the
city ; it is to be observed, that or the above
number a great proportion are artists in the
different branches of building, and from di&
fererrt parts of America and Europe, the cli
mate agrees with their confti tut ions, and they
enjoy in this city equal if not fttperior health,
to what they have experienced in any part of
the Continent.
Signed in behalf of the ihhabitants of the •
City of and at their request. fta*
Augujl 12,1793.
James Hob an,
t CoLfcEN WILJ,IA*HfjN,
EUSHA O. UiLitAMS.;
TRENTON, Augufl 21.
The direQors of the Societv for tftablifhing
ufeful Manufactures, have rfrfufved to Cfe& a
Lottery for raising 100, coo dollars, agreeably to
an a& of the Legiflaturt of the State of Ndw-
Jti fey. It is expected all the tickets will soon
be fold, as the plan appears to be the best and
mod eligible for the purchasers of tickets, of
any which has been offered to the public for a
Irtng time. There are but one and a quarter
blanks to one prize, and every afiuranee and
precaution has been taken to have monies
paid by the managers from time to time as re.
ccivcdy into the banks at New-York and Phila
delphia, to lemaiu therefor the purpose of pay-'
lug the prizes, which arc to be
discharged alter the lottery is drawn, by a
check Upon one of the banks. There are three
clalfcs—-the firft prize in the firit class is 5000
dollars ; ditto in the second class is 9000 dollars.;
ditto in the third class is 16,009 dollars.
Ihe direfciors Of ihc society have appointed
the following peifons as fuperinten'dants and
dirc&ors of the drawing of the loUery, viz/—
Nicholas Low, Rtrtui King, Herman Hoy,
James Watson, Richard Harrifon, Anjjah Haui.-
mohd and Cornelius Ray, of the city of New-'
York—-Thomas Willing, Joseph Ball, Nfauhew'
M'Connel and Andrew Bayard, of the city o&/
Philadelphia—-Kltav Boudioot,- James
John Bayard, Samuel W. Stockton, Joshua
Wallace, joseph Bloomfield and Llilba Boudi
not, of New-Jersey.—-John N. Cumming, of
Newark, Jacob R.Hardcnbergh, qf N ew-BrunU
Richard Wells, of Glouccfler, are ap
pointed by the fuperiuiendanta as
managers, who luve jpvpi bonds *-ach in 4P,©qo/
dollars, wnh fquc fulficicnt fecurit-res, for dif--
charging "with fidelity and punctuality the trull
repolcd in them.
NEW-YORK, Aug. 22.
New.York, ,13th Aug.. 1753.; •
2d Year of the Republic. K ,
Citizen GENET, Minifler Plenipotentiary from flic
French. Republic to General WASHINGTOX y
President of the United States :
SIR,
I N'T rust go in this part of. the world with,
the interetts and right* of the French people, <>*
you arc'with those of the citizens of
I have sworn to my country, and imputed it ds
a (acred duty on myfelf never to permit private
confederations or other motives foreign from
the general weal to impede me in what I
ceived the line of duty. Myconduft has accord
ingly been marked with all the energy and
franknefs which ever c) ara&erize a true repub
lican. Toyoualoue, through the Secretary of
State, have I complained of tire piincipJes yon
have adopted, and remonstrated agaiuft deci
fioju which ; have ieftrlt£<i therefrom. To you
alone have I declared that the Federal govern
ment, far from manife&ng any regard tor our
generous conduct towaid*. this country—for the
ne*v advantages which we were offering to her
comm?rcc~—or for the re iterated demonstrations
of our real and difiuterefted frientitfiip, were
facrificing our inteiefU to those of our enc/nies,
by their interpretation of the treaties which ex
ilt between us. To you have I reprefeiued
without rcferve that this conduct did; not ap
pear to correspond with the views of the peo
ple of America, with their defrre to observe
with fidelity their public engagements or
their affectionate regaid for thccaule
upon which very t xiftence and
depend. Certain decisions of voui tribunals
and ve'rd i£U of your juries, pride d to the fpntU
mcots of yom Uilow-ciuicus publicly txprtlf
icU.permit mt without i crimp to dtaw
thit inference.
Sevcithelels certain pcifoni, a&uated by
riewt which time will develops despairing to
fittack my principles, have descended to perfon
lal abufe—ln hopes ot withdrawing iiom'me
that cfteeoi which the public feel and avow lor
(he representative of the French lepubhc. The)
pubhlh wuh great warmth that 1 have uifulied
you and thai 1 bave threatened you with an
peal to the- people, as if you would permit any
one with impunity to treat you with diliefpcfl,
or as if the slightest hint of an appeal, which,
a magistrate deleaving of his high othce, lhould
ardently desire, w« to you the greatest olieiiec
I could offer.
It is become necessary, Sir, tpdidlpate these
dark calumnies by traith, and publicity I
dare therefore to expert from your candor
and probity an explicit declaration, that •« I
have never intimated to you an intention of
appealing to the people ; that it is itot true
that a difference ill political sentiments has
ever betrayed me to forget what was due to
your character or to the exalted reputation
you had acquired by humbling a tyrant a
gainst whom you fought in the cause of li
berty." 1
A publication of your jnfwcr will be the on
ly t-Cply, which lhall be given to those party
men, w ho never fail to cbnfound the individual
with affairs of ilatc, which they too olten make
ule of as a pretext tor real and a rcafou IcjV
dastardly appearing under anommoits lijjrtatures.
As tof Jnyiffcftj 1 have always opeuly dedai
ed what I thought, and figiied what I bad
written, and if others have supposed they
could advance my views, by riewfpaper publi
cations and paragraphs tliey art much deceiv
ed—A good caule needs 110 advocate—Time
and Truth will make it triumph in spite of
its implacable enemies, and the prefcnt cold
indifference at' some who were it* ancient
friends. 1 have the honor, &;c-
sfi.i >->-■ v, : >-
Philadelphia, Angull 16,1793.
SIR,
THE President of the United States, has
received the letter which you addressed to
hitti from New-York, oil the 13th inllant, and
I am delired to observe to you, that it is not
tile eltabliihcd course tor the diplomatic cha
racters residing here, to have any direct cor
reipoiidence with him—The Secretary of
State, is the organ through whfch tlieir com
munications (huuld pal's.
The President dots not conceive it to he
within the line of propriety or duty for him
to bear evidenceagainlt a declaration which,
whether made to him or others, is perhaps im
material,lie tlisrelore, declines interfering in
the cafe. .
, J have (he lipnor to be with great respect,
Sir, .
itri* Vojirmot obedient,
. Aod must humble <erv»nt*v
TM: JEFFERSON.
T6» Mlnlfter Weiiipotemiary ?
The brig Cheltham of Dublin, which
arrived heie lail Saturday, a prize to the
French privateer Caramagnole, is seized
by order of his excellency , the governor,
and a company of soldier* put on board
'■«Ftimibr BtARY.
Gentlemen,
AMONG the various fubje&s which
at present occupy the attention of
the public, the conduit of the company
the Jupiter feeins to be none ot the
lealt interelling ; the ipeculative mind of
the public is held in suspense, and not
knowing the motives on which they have
a£led cannot form a proper judgment of
their conduit.
The following atldreffes, therefore, as
tbey tend considerably to elucidate this
l'ubje£t, cannot fail of being acceptable.
1 The iit.ft which was sent to Citizen Ge
net requires little explanation. The com
pany of the Jupiter, anxious to investi
gate the causes and to discover the auth
ors of the late enormities committed at
Cape Francois, in which they weie influ
cncc'd to bear a part, and of which we
may every moment witneis the miserable
conftqutnces, have on just grounds of
suspicion arretted their commander, admi
ral Cambis, whom they are determined
to condu&. with general Galbaud, to the
national convention, to answer for their
refpeftive conduct before that anguft tri
bunal, and in cider the better to efle&
this purpose they are determined to lail,
as soon as pofiible for France.
The ir.inilter on the other hand, felici
tous for the. iafety of admiral Cambis,
and perhaps with a view towards tht re.ef
tabliihwent of order aiid union in the
fleet, held a council of war, at his lodg
ings on Friday evening last ; when among
other matteis, no doubt of equal impor
tance, it was detei mined that the prifon
erc should be liberated, and that the Ju
piter, with some other vessel of the fleet,
lhotild be sent on a ciuife.
The rtfult of" these deliberations were
yerbally communicated to the company
of the Jupiter, who finding tliem diaine
nically opposite to their intentions, there
upon tent the following additCs to the arn
bafiidoi'.
I he French Republican* of every deno
mination, on board die vi'ifct of the
republic thi Jupiter
To Citizen Genet, mimjler from the Reput)-
tiCs to the oniteel Slates of America,
Citizen,
THE ictlon of deception is palled
there is not a French citizen who is un
acquainted with his own rights'or yours
—We have penetrated through the ob
icurity of the council of war held yester
day at your hoofc, we were too much in
terested in the event not toiucceed in our
investigation. Myltery was well fuitt'd
to file old government, but. it is used to
little purpose tftwards patriotic citizens, i
-We know »H, we are no longcnto be de
ceived, neither will we be engaged in any
fcQti&ion. We are acctifed of beingjhe
authors of those very crimes wbtc-invvv
have endeavoured to pro vent. The uation
al convention alone can be our judge, Mid
we will no longer remain here under the
pieffure of the mod gi ievo«* aeoufsit ions
however great the glory, or however bril
liant the laurels which you'prorßife. We
have no confidence but in the nation, arid' ;
we declare to you, that being determin
ed to go and demand at her tribunal Jaf
tice and Vengtauce, neither you nor any
other (hall detain us longer in the Ameri
can seas.
Galbaud, that citizen whom you, no
doubt are unacquainted wtth, fijjce we
know that you y out felt' calumniate'h iin,
fliall jro wiih us to the convention, '
Cambis, although tie withes to avoid if
fliall go there also, the Ton of Polyerel
&.le Blanc whom you wifli to escape from
on board the L'Eole, we will in like
manner condud to that dtead Couven-
tioa.
Galbaud, and ourselves, as .we are
conscious of our innocence, arc not a-
fraid to appear before that juil,tribunal.
Citizen minister, attend then to the
consequences. You contider us as culpa
ble, and before we hare jullified our
selves to- the national convention, you
fay that you will here makc.ua few the.
republic—She fliould have t>o fervaott, no
defenders but fnch as are worthy of he r<
and when we (hall have ptoved to herthat
we are tier true children ; then, when we
I (hall be w.orthy to combat her enemies,
we will eocouncer them.
It i« then to do purpose that you era
ploy against us and the other republicans
of our fleet, those arts and machinations
of the old policy, which though t&ey
might indeed be suitable to the Cabinet
of * Versailles that receptacle of lies and
tyianny, are not agreeable to the priuei
pies of Republicans.
Yon ate the Representative of there
public, be worthy of your office, and do
not keep us any longer at a diltance from
our country r for in spite of your efforts
we will go to her, and (he (hall then give
her judgement of that ast, which you
will not fail to fully with the name of dis
order and want of fuboidictation, but
which we call an ast of republicanifnj, be
cause we hold if the firtland moll sacred
of our duties, to vindicate out innocence
before the national convention. •'
On board the Jupiter, the of
August 1763, the zd year of the l
French Republic.
Signed by the head officer of each de-"
part meat.'
* M. Genet was formerly secretary at
Verfatlles.
The condudt of the company of the
Jupiter having been reprcfented to their
brethren of the Ainbufcade, the follow
ing address is a general jultihcation of
fheir proceedings, together with a decla
ration of their patriotism, and inviolable
attachment to the cause which they have
undertaken to defend ; the firft paragraph
will oe unintelligible to those who do not
know that the company of the Ambus
cade, were to have been sent on board
the Jupiter to disarm the vessel ; on this
occaiion an address was sent to the people
of the Ambuscade, to which this para
graph has reference.
Brothert and Friends,
THE moment t>fyour arrival, convin
ces us that you have not received a letter
which we had the honor to address toyoa
this morning ; we doubt not that your
commanders have acquainted you with it,
as it was addtcfTed to the ctcw —neither
do we doubt the pattiotifm of Captain
Bompard or his officers.
Remember we are ail children of one
common mother, our countiy.
Remember that wc all defend the fame
cause. The oath which we have taken
515
/ /
to defend Liberty anil equality, is furtly
irrevocable.
We have been painted to you in the
blacked colours, and who can prove that
wc nave acfted contrary to true patriotism
Ah ! brethren how great, how nume
ious are our common enemies ; traverse
every part of the world, and you will
•find in each of them beings, who under
the specious mafic of patriotism devise the
blacked plots against the defenders of so
ber.cficent a Republic ; no foouer is one
projett discovered, than they contrive o
thera which, in their turn are dictated—-
d.O. they, what is their last resource?
jl'Rey low the feeds of difcotd between
thv companies of i!r' vcfiels of that repub
lic, which we have all of us sworn to
matn|ain, and we now swear that we are
ready to spend our lad breath in her ds
'fence. >
Citizens, if we were culpable the ene
, mie« of the canfe which we have bravely
and Irmly defended, would readily have
made us return to France, to undergo the
•punilhment which the laws inflicts on all
Frenchmen, who are traitors to their coun-
Can there te any doubt of our pa
triotism, after having combated the opi
'nrf>n4 of the tr&itdif Blanchelande, the
flagitious La Volquiirt and many others
whom we shaH not forget to name to the
national tonyealioti.
Hear fhfc language of reason, we who
aadrefs yoti are Frenchmen, we are your
broilfm—We'fwear to continue so, being
{ '^ at wllkn we (hall have ap
peared before the tribunal of jultice, you
Will an hundred times repeat, 14 where
are our brothers the company of the Ju
- pitei ."
Would you nqt be surprised citizens,
(liould we tell you that within 2 years we
j have loft £Q, 000 men fighting to eitablifh
order, in a colony, which the mother
couutiy had entrufttd to out care and to
our arms.
But how have they died, have they
j been killed bravely ? No, 'tis not the
fwordalane, but Jire and poison* has de
llroyed .thera ; if you seek far jnjlice you
: will find it in prisons aod under the weight
of irons ; such are the arbiiraty proceed
ings us fhofe, who are entrusted with the
; rcins.of government^
8 At prefeut it is imp»ffible for us to in
form.yau of the wlmlf. truth, of .the affair
dn#until we shall have appeared before
that auglrft national conventton, it nevfcr
' can be known. For tliis reason citizens,
we wi(hto let'urn to France ; that we may
make known (he language of truth,
(Signed)
The Company of the "Jupiter.
* Perhaps it is not known to every one
that numbers of these brave patiiots fell
a facrifice to poison mixed in their wine
and victuals ; it is of some consequence,
that the perpetrators of such villany
should be detected.
I " ' • y.
Philadelphia, Aug. 24.
Last Sunday evening an affray took place in
New-Yoik, between (ome French and Eftgliih
. Cation'; in-which foine of both nations got fe-
S wonpdcd. The peace was slot restored
without the of the
who committed feveial of them to jail. There
arc reponiln circulation, that (onie of the pet.
son& concerned in the above riot, have died of
their wounds,
Thurfdav arrived at New-Cattle, the fhrp
Ann & Susan, Capt. fruplex, with 405 p a fle ti
ger*, ffom L'O.ndondei ry. She was taken pof-
IrfHou of by the Democrat tc Caramagnole, for
having British properly and paftcngers on boatd,
and efcoited to New-Castle by the privateers,
the Captains of both, we hear, aie ai rived in
Capt. Duplex failed from Derry on the 12th
of June, and the land the 22d, but brings papers
no later than the 1 ith.
The letters and paper* brought by Captain
Duplex, are in the poffdHon ot ihc cotnmau
dci a at the privateers.
An liiiH paper of the 7th June, fays—We
have feidom on any former occaiion seen a more
general illumination, than that of Tuesday lad,
irt this town (Belfail) in honor of his Majeily's
birth. Several irautparencres appeared in the
%nidnws, and the uigiit concluded with every
(oniiiiday of joy.
Several defoerate engagements have taken
place in Ireland, betwren the military ana the
people, on account of the militia a&.
The American Gazette, of the 14th inft. pub
lKhed at Norfolk, has the following article : —
On Saturday last the fljop Hope, of Antigua,
Capt. Richardson, was captured by the privateer
Citizen Genet, about ten leagues off the land,
and lent into Philadelphia. Capt. Richardfoti
received every polileiicfs from the Captain ot
the Genet.
fey a gentleman who came paflenger in the
above sloop we team, that a fixtecn (hip
had arrived at St. Kill's in 26 days from Liven
pool, with the intelligence that Peace was <.flab
l.lhcd between fiautc and England.
The; Proda+LUtUm oi the P:ciid#:it of th«-
United States,. ucclanng their Neutrality, is .
ptfbfifhvd in an Inih paper of the 7th June,
f kxtijjtii of a U:t<r from the wejlern part oj, AljJcu
I,'iujettiy dotted ig.
"It is fearrti in this quarter, thdt the c6ndn&
o£ <omf of your dcfpemdots\ or Jacobins, will
have a tendency tw involve this country i utiie
European contest. ; Cuch a meature would beat
tended with the inevitable distress of trade, the
oporeffion of the farmer, and the ruin of tftocu
lands. Should this be the result of the machi
nations of the caballers among you, it the sen
timent which is prevalent among the people
here, peivades the northern States 111 general,
and which I firmly believe to be Urc laet,.ibc
enemies of our country will c«;r ry 1 heir point,
and lever the Union—»n eveiv which every
friend 6t man must deprecate.—A great noise la
made about the tnfults some of a# vei&'ls
receved from a lew rafrally privateeis—{['the
plundering picaroons of New-Piovideiice, Ac; J
— this fame class who are thus deafening the
public ear with their complaints again# iiritifSi
info! en re, would ifoop to the m >lt degrading
intuits from Frenchman—nav, from the lattei,
they would receive a Oajiinadoing % and lingua ira
under the operation.
** At'the commencement of a war, the vcfTels
of any neutral nation mutt e*prft totoe subjeCted
to Tome-inconveniences* rcfuUing either, from
the caution of principled men, m di(charge of
their duty, or from the temerity of the unprin.
ciplfd, in search of plunder—but the crimcs of
the latter, cannot with propriety be laid,to the
charge of authority, unless indubitable proof of
faii£l)oii to such conduit is rendered luamfcft.
" We have had some conhifed accounts of
riots in New-York and Philadelphia—God
grant that there may be fufhcient energy in the
executive, and inclination in the majority of ih«
people, to oppose a barrier of mi»ht to the evil
designs of those who would Sacrifice the dearest
concerns and intrrefts ot our couutry, to tnotivc'4
the most base and
TiM t eo» tntonoxiir
!t is an arduous talk for a government to pre.
fei»e thr p'ace, liberty and fecuritv of . the pri
pie committed to its luperintcndjince. No
greater tulogiain an be paid to the administra
tion of the government of the United States,
thin the a£tual fiiuaiioii of iu public affairs
and it it undoubtedly the of every real
patri-it, AUy peace ttwtinue to reign in our borders,
and profpenty in our luhitjtiani.
fcvery dav's experience shews the importance
of the United States keeping detached, and
(tending aloof from the vortex of Euiopeau po
litics. The people of this country have parted
thro" the fiery trial of diforgarti jarion. May
Heaven prefcrve us from a fimilai limation—and
tho' Chanty, which begins at home, flaould not
end there, vet the molt benevolent condutl
which the United States can poffihty observe
towards those who are (offering from a dilfolu
tion of the bands of focieiv, *iirbe to exhibit
an example of the luperior bleflinga. derived
Iroin pcace, order and good^govcjonicni.
Oled #t ffr».-¥wr*,-Mrr. Si.
i>er, the amiable cnufon of the Kev.'Dr. B»n.
ja m i n Foster, of lhat city.
To JONATHAN PhVJOAk,
Poet Laurent to the National Gazette.
1 'n fpiteof all your puffers fay,
Your Odes forth' reading do ndtcomjieiifatri
The paper, ink, and time, ar<r thrown away,
The pastry-cooks will fearcearrefttbeir fate.
Yoijr boa (I of kindred to th' immortal bard,
Who. Jafhes folly in cardial note,
May to the jack-daw's lirutting be compared,
Cfoath d iu the bird of Juuo's golden coat.
The elfence of ten thoitf.nd thou fan; dozen,
Such spurious Pindarr, if condens'd in one,
Would never make his hundred lhou(aud<h
cmifro,
There's neither flifti nor spirit, blood nor
bone. q
SHIF NEWS-
v- • ;
AR RIVED at the PORT o/PHILADELPtf la.
Ship Ann&Sufan, Duplex, Londonderry
Biig Hannah, Coiincf, N. Providence
Sulaunah, Moiy, St. K,iu
Prelude, Mease, Jacomel
Scbr. Commerce, Foulk, N. Providence
Hetty, Duiiant, Virginia
Citizen Genet, Fort Mifilia
Sloop Philad. Packet, Hawkes, Guadaloupe
Polly, Smith, Martinique
Bob & Henry, Cox, Vii^inia
Two Brothers, Brown, do.
Thomas & Sally, Mitchell, do.
Sally, Griffin, St. Martin*'
Atlas, Jones, JacoroeJ
The Jane, Capt. Morgan-, and the Ann, Ca.pt.
George, that lay some tune tnibe Bay, bound to
Jamaica, are goue out to sea.
hew.Bedford. Augujl 9. Capt. Howlaod, »f.
rived herefrom Cape-Francois, was brought too
leven times on his pafTagc, by different priva
teers j five Englilh, one Spainfli, V one French
ordeicd 011 hoard the Spanish and Fretxh; the
others boarded him in their own boats All.
treated him with great aivjlity.
Brig Dunkirk, of Dunkiik, Benjamin Haws,
matter, from > Brazil whale ciuife, has arrived
here—4o© barrels whale oil. Capt, Haws had
completed his cruifeafter whale, left the ground
and fleered his cnurfe for Dunkiik—reached
soundings—spoke with an American, who gave
him the firtt intelligence of a war between
France and Great-Britain. A Buii(h private,r
in fight at the fame time, caused him to put
away for America ; aftei 40 days pafiage. with,
out once foeaking a cruiser of any kind, lu ar
rived here.—7/Sij is mnmng the gauntlet without
a witnefl ! . '
Arrived at Nantucket, (hip Marv-Anp, Trif.
tram Folger, from the coail of Brazil—lloa
barrels whale oil.
C~3" Prut vf Sltnh at in car laji.Fiom the Wtirrm Star.
Mr. Andrcwi,
AS the fubjeiS of the Rights of Man
is more generally difcufied than un
derltood, and at I am a real fiiend to the
dofhine, (in a rational degree) permit
me to enumerate, through the channel of
your paper, certain rights the people of
this country have, and which I hope they
will forever strenuously maintain.
1. Upon the difiblutioa of the British
government in this countty, the people
had an unalienable right to form their
state conltitutions, by which individuals
gava up a certain portion of their natural
liberty, to secure and perpetuate the reft
for themselves and their posterity.
2. The great body of the people ip
the United States had an incontrovertible
right torefign a certain portion of feeble
state foveieignty, so as to form a national
constitution ; ans to clothe and invigorate
this government with fiich powers as to
raise the country out of a state of confu
fion and contempt, and make it compe
tent for the establishment of publick cre
dit at home and abroad.
3- The people, having thus eftablifli
ed a government for the common good of
United America, have the sole right to
maintain it againll all secret, wicked com
binations among themselves, and open
attacks from abroad.^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
4- There is no restraint, either in the
{late or nations/ governments, upon an
individual, to worship God contrary to
the di&ates of his own confoience—to
worship as he pleases is, besides, a natu
ral and unalienable right, and there is no
power on earth to controul it.
5. As the civil and religious rights of
the people are defined by the conllitution
al frames of government —consequently,
individuals must be protedled in the fulled
extent, according to the social compact.
6. The citizens of America are not
more bound to obey constitutional laws,
than they are entitled to all the benefits
resulting from those laws.
7. If the legillature of the United
States, or that of an individual (late,
make laws which militate again ft the con
stitutional right of an individual, he can
oppose the will of the conltitution to that
of the legislature, and the judicial power
js bound to cairy the will of theconftitu
tion into effect.
8. As the people of these United
States have a right to defend their liv;s
and liberties, they have a right equally
strong, of acquiring, poffefling, arid pro
testing property —but no man, or body
of men, can have any pretence of right,
upon the new dodlrine of liberty and
equality, to take the fruits of their in
dustry from them, and dillribute it among
a set of indolent, profligate levellers.
The Quack Doctors of liberty and
equality in England and France, have
wrote much upon this newfangled topick;
the firft of them who advanced the doc
trine, had nothing to lose : but in all my
reading I have not discovered an in fiance
wherein one of the advocates for liberty
and equality has diftvibuted his estate
among the needy. Until an example is
given by those reafoners, of a disposition
of their property, if they have any, in
to aliquot parts, between their offspring
and the beggars that present themselves
to a(k alms, I (hall continue to believe
that this position is advanced here, and
abroad, by such only as are without pro
perty, or by those who consider them
selves qualified to head a faction, and
through that medium raise themselves to
a (ituation of obtaining those profits and
honours which emetge out of a state of
confufion. " Every experimental philo
fopber (hould firft try the experiment on
hrmfelf, before he ele&rifies a whole nati
on."
I am Mr. Printer, a hard labouring
man, and, by the sweat of my brow,
have acquired a clear eflate of one thou
sand dol!ai s—my neighbour Hodge Podge
had at lead this sum when he began the
world ; but he being a lazy, careless fel
low, (and gennrally roasting his shins in
the winter while I am foddering my cat
tle) is not now worth a (hilling—he daily
calls on me for bread, to keep his family
from Itarving—yet there is no one so cla
mourous for liberty and equality as he is.
I told him, in a convetfation we had
lately, that if his scheme could take effect
it was not likely, on account of bis idle,
careless way of living, that he would
long enjoy the benefit of my labour—O,
fays he, when you acquire more proper
ty, we will divide again.
FROM THE COLUUBIAXtENriXZL.
A correspondent on teeing ibe lift r»f French
Privaiceis, in addition co ihe French public
Ihips, was led lo ihe following reflexion :
A FLY, wltf long had fottnd support,
In Hattghty toritain's ttifc&'cohtr,
Of late from that tyrannic thore fled,
To \ight upon'Colu a't> forehead.
Franc t, when she saw the Fly tfn" wing,
sufpe&ed that he meant tVJUkf;
And ere he'd fcareely' tinSe to Mighf,
Or fpii his gall aftd vfni His spite;
Her arm, with nerves of vengeance fining, i
A battle-ax o'er occan swung :
And now, to brush away the foe,
High swept in air the thundering blow,
Which Jcar'd the Fi. y, bv wind in Jailing*
But knock'd down poor Columbi a t fprawfing '
District oj Pennsy l vanTa, to wit.
T) E IT REMEMBERED, that on
( £5 J -i-J the thirteenth day of Aoguft, in
\ / trie eighteenth year of the Indepen
dence of the Umtefl States of America,
THOMAS DOBSON, of thefafd Diftrift, harh
depofm d in this Office the Title of a Book, the
Right whereof he claims as Proprietor, in the
words following—to wit :
" fRANSACt lON'S OF 1 THE COLLEGE OF
" Physicians of Philadkl phi a.—Vol. I.
" Part I. Non Jibi fed toti
In conformity to ihe Art of the Congress of
the United States, intituled, " An Ast tor the
Enfcourai/ement of Learning, by feCuriwg the
Copies of Charts «»nd Books, to the Au
thors and Proprietors of fueh Copies, during
the times therein mentioned/'
War Department,
Augr/ft I ft, 1793.
INFORMATION is hcicby given to all the
Military Invalids of the United States, that
the sums to which they are intitled for fix mortths
of iheir annual pension, from the 4th day of
March last, and which will become due on the
sth of September next, will be paid on the said
day by the Commiffionrrs of the Loans, with
in the States relpe&ively under the usual regu
lations.
N. B. The Printers in the refpcßtve States are
yequejled, to publijh the abovqin their neivfpapers for
the Jpace of two months.
Treasury Department,
Augufl 10, 1793.
NOTICE is hereby given, that Propofah
will be received at the Office of the Se
tretary of the Treasury, until the 14th day
of September next inclulively, to furnilh by
contract the follo'ving articles of Cloathing,
for the use of the United States, viz.
4,800 Hats,
5, lao Stock 1 !,
j, 120 Stock-Clasps,
20,480 Shirt';,
5,120 Veils,
5,120 Coats,
9,600 Woollen Overalls,
9,600 Linen ditto,
19,200 pairs of Shoes,
9,600 pairs of Socks,
5,120 Blankets,
320 Caps,
320 pairs of Leather Breaches,
640 pairs of Boots,
320 pairs of Spurs,
640 pairs of Stocking l :,
1,520 Rifle Shirts.
The cloathing to be delivered at the city
of Philadelphia ; one fourth part of the whole
number of suits on or before the 15th of Fe
bruary, one fourth on or before the 15th of
April, and the remaining half on or before
the 15th of June, 1794.
The articles must be agreeably to fiich pat
terns as (hall be d'ire&ed by the Secretary for
the Department of War. Payment will be
made as soon as the whole of the articles (hall
have been delivered. epti4S.
83" THE Editor proposes to continue the
publication oj the Gazette of the United
States y Jor dijlant circulation, after the firjl of
December next, on the following terms, viz.
It Jhall be pubhjhei on Wednesdays and
Saturdays, on paper of the Medium fze —which
ft larger than the prcfent.
rhe price, Three Dollars per annum,exclusive
of poflage.
Sub [caption s to be received by the refpeflive Pofl.
Maflers throughoit the Union, or such other ferftms
as may fee proper to collect them.
_ The papers to b; forwarded b\ pojl twicc a week.
A'o pickets to contain lef\ than si x papers—and no
fubferiptions to be received for a less term than fix
'months.—Payments to be confiantly fix months in
advance.—Twenty per cnt. deduction from the price
of the Gazette, will be allowed to those who col
led and forward the fubfeription money, free of ex
pense, in full of all charges for their'trouble in the
biifnefs.
The publication will contain as vftal, a variety of
original effays—foreign and domrjlic intelligence,
and a fmmary of the proceedings of the Legipature
of the Union, tfc. &c.- Attention wilt be paid
to d> [patching tie papers trUb punfluaaly, and Sub
scribers mai depend on receiving them as rtiulitrly.
as the pofls arrive.
INDUSTRY. "
SAMUEL CALDWELL, Clerk of the
Diflriß oj Pcvnfyfvania.
By Command of the
President tffke'VJmted States.
Iff. KNOX, Secretary at War,
TO THE PUBLIC.
June 8.
516
To the Public.
THE Editor of the Ga7JSTt* of the Unites
Statis, piujwfes pubKlhing the Paper,
under that Title, every Evenings Sunday's
excepted.
Toreuderit interelling a* a Daily Puhli
catiort, it fball contain foreign and domestic,
coinmerciaf and political Intelligence :—Ef
(Vys and Observations, local and general : —
■Maritime intbrmarron :—Pficis Current ol
Merchandize and the Public Fund*. Also a
summary of the proceedings of Corgrefs, and
of the Legislature of this State : —with a
(ketch of Congreffionai Debates, &c-
Advertizing favors will be gratefully re
ceived.
T I R M S.
'■ To be printed on paper of the demy fiie ;
lv.it a larger lize lhall lie fuUtituted in Decem
ber next.
The price Six Dollar's per Annum, to be
paid half Yearly.
When h fufficient number of Subscribers is
obtaiued,the Publication (h ill commence.
In the interim, tlie Gawtte will be publifh
dd twice a week as iifiial.—Subfcriptions are'
ifcfpeftf'ully solicited by the Public's humble
(fcrvant,
JOHN FENNO.
C}'T" Subscriptions are received at the iityl *vern.
South Second Street~by Mr. DoiJoß, ot the +>tone
Ihuje—b\ other per Jons who are in po[[ejjion ofjvh-
Jcvption papers, and by the Editor at his t.ovj'e,
No. 31, A'or/h Fijlh-Spett.
By THOMAS JOHNoON, DAVID
STU ART,b DANIEL CARROLL,
Esquires,
Commission ers appointed by Government to
prepare the Public Buildings, See. within the
City of IVaJhinglon, for the reception of Con
gress, and for their permanent rtfideme alter
the yean 800—
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City.
50,000 Tickets at 7 dollars, are 350,000 dollar*.
LIST OF PRIZES, viz.
I Superb Hotel, With baths, )
out houses, Scc.Scc. to cost )
1 Cash
l ditto
l ditto
1 ditlo
2 ditto
5,000 arc
jo ditto
' 20 ditfo
100 ditto
; 300 ditlO
; 400 4l'J*
1,090 (ditto
t^.ooo'dino
} —,' 11 i- "
Pri*f»
£3,1163 Blanks
1,00 o
500
100
5°
2 .5
?o
10
50,600
By this fchertie at Itajl the arfiount of the tick
els will return to the fortunate adventurers, and
yet ihf federal City will gain its object thereby*
in a magnificent building both for pub
lic and private convenience.
Although some expence must necefTarily at
tend the conducing of the Ipttery, (which ex
pence will be taken from the principal pritej the
Commiflioners having agreed to prcYcnt in te
cum * fufficient quantity of excellent free-flone,
together with the best adapted lots for the hotel
and for the out-houfes, the value of the lottery
entire may be fairly rated at something more than
par: In this important instance it will be found,
on examination to excecd all the lotteries that
have ever been offered to the Public in this or
perhaps in any other country. The keys of the
Hotel, when complcat, will he delivered to tiie
fortunate poffefTor of the ticket drawn aagainlt
its number. — All the other prizes will be paid,
without dedutt tonkin one month after the dtawing, by
the City Treasurer at Washington, or at such
Bank or Banks as may be hereafter announced,
for the conveniency of the fortunate adventurers.
The drawir.g will commence on Monday the
6th of Septembe/ next, at the City of Washing
ton.
Tickets may be had of Col. Win. Dickens, City
Treasurer of Waftimgron ; 7haver ££ Bartiet, of
Charlcfton, South-Carolina; Gideon Dehijon, Sa
vannah ; Mfffis. James Wejl & Co. Balumoic;
Mr. Peter Gilman, Boston; and ar such other
places as will be hereafter published.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given for thebe ft tTan of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and rold
Baths, Stables, and other out houses, if prtfenlcd
on or before the xoth of April next; and a pre
ference will be fiivi n 10 the Ariift tor a C6ty
tract, provided he be dirty qualified to
compleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be erected, will
be a corner lot of about 50 by 200 feel, with a
back avenue to the flables, &c. Seftio'ns a?.d
eftimatts of the expense will be exneftrd
with the elevations. &c. eompleat ; and 50,000
dollars mild be regarded by the Architect asthe
utmoll limit in the exprnfc intended lor this
purpose. S. BLODGET,
Agent for the artairsofthe City
March, 61.70;
This DAY JS fVbLUHf.B,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Stout Houjc, No. 41, foutk SecmA-Strcet,
Medical Tr an fa cti ons
OF THE
College of Physicians
OJ Philadelphia :
Volume I. Part I.
Price in beards One Dollar.
AIJo lardy pvblijhtd by 7 . Dotty,*,
DR. UNDERWOOD'S TREATISE
On the dileafes ot Children, with general di
rethons for the management ol infants from
thr birth, adapted both for the use of Medi
cal Practitioners and privatr Families.
TWO VOLUMES IN ONK.
Price sue dollar neatly bound.
JMvASVIRVnVEBLVaTMfcMT,
JVTOTIGE is hr'rSy *<»*«, that •ropnfaH w 1 *
!l>f hi Vft'riir'ed lit tKi otiitr wf t ISc Six+fctif y 11
thi TrrtfUfy, M|>Uit' ftiu|tHortirfay tff "S,-ju
Umbet sett TMMthflM tft«r 1#
b.iipni , Wl(i«l?'(tfiy , WKqW-f<nT<<, fSrwt-»
|h? tVKfd'srtiVi: ilk* frdfivu dayv*
to )hf thirtj-fi 'DW*mtWrT;<s, ty&i'
iay« irtclun»t, « lHk pla<*n, Aid wwtfhCW*
irit. ' "'' ""
| i, A< irijr pUetfWplrtMbe: ,
•r.Vt iti rSe to'? M £4ritrfjflvifei£,'iA^'
! >. At «4ty j>Bc« Wrtf
Sht itiou-h"6f mpß:«»i*rCK J tk*,»>id'rtHieritouth'
.lfligßtaVtrCic.lt. '
, 3. At »fiy pl»ct01
iolht upptr+jllj oFilte did Big Bij»er, rtrti a
the'djW*r MH,
q. Ar any placr or plf e* fromthr said upper
fafl* to MahoniOp, afid at Mahoning.
5- At awy place or placc* from the said Ma
honing ovfr tcv iV Navigation of the river
Cayahoga, and at the (aid H«»d Navtgauon.
6. At any place or places* »rom the fatd Head-
Navigation to the mouth ol the (aid river Caya-
and at the said mouth.
7. At any place or place* fyetwixt the mouth
of the jßtg B'.aver Cu* k, to the mouth of the
river Mufkinguai, and up 'he said river to the
Tufcarowa.% and at the Tufcarowas, and thence
over to the Cavahoga 1 irer, and thence down the
fair* river to its month.
8. At any olacc or places betwixt the mouih
of the river Mwfkingu«n and the mouth of the
Scioto river, and ihe inouth of the said river
Scioto.
9 At any place or places betwixt the mouth
of Scioto rivei Sc the mouth of the Great Miami,
at the month of the Great Mmmi, and Irom
thence ro the rapids or the falJsof the Ohio,and
at the said rapids.
10. At any place or place* betwixt the
*>f the Great Miami, *»p the said Miami trt and
.at Pique Town.
11. At any place or pbees from Fort Wafh
irtgton to Frtr't H«Mfr*iltodVaod ml Fort Hamilton.
At any p*ace or places 4*om Fort Hamilton t*
Fon Clatr, and at St. Clair.
12. Ai an> p)»ee or placcs from Fort St. Clair
to Fort Jefterfon,, and ai fort Jt tf ifon.
13. At any placc or places futm Fort Jr&rfoft
to the field ol atl ion oh tbe 4 hot November,
1791, and at the said Id oi
14. At any place or places from live said fuld
of action to iVe Miami Villages, and at the
M-ami Villages.
15. At any place or places from the said Mi
ami Village* to the jails of the Miami 1 wee,
which empties into Lake Erie, ana at the said
falls, and from thence to its mouth, and at its
month.
50,000
eo.oco
15.c00
10.000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10.000
16. At any place or phices from the month of
the said Miami river of Lake Erie to Snndufky
Lake, and at Sandufky Lake.
10,000
10, coo
SO,CCO
17. At any ptece or places from the said Saft
duficy Lake, to the mouth of the river Cay*hoe;a.
18. At any place or places from »he mouth of
the said river Cayahoga to Prcfque Jfl-, aad at
Prefque IfL*.
150,000
Dollars 350,000
59 At any place or places from Prefque I fie
to the stream running into Lake £r:c from to
wards the Jadaghque Lake, and thcncc over 10
and at the laid jadaghque Lakc,and thence down
the Allegheny river to Fort Franklin.
20. Ai any place or places from Pref<]ue Ifte
to Le Beuf, and at Le Beuf.
21. At any place or places from Le Beuf to
Fort Franklin, and at Fort Franklin, and from
thence to Piitfburgh.
22. At any place or places from the rapidsof
the Ohio to the month of the Wabafli river, and
from the mouth of the said Wabalh river to the
mouth of the riyer Ohio.
?3 At any place or places on rhe East fide'of
the river Mifliflippi, f'nm rhe mouth ot the Ohio
river, to the mouth o{ the Illinois river.
24. At any place or places from the mouth of
the laid Wabafh river up to Fort Knox, and at
Fort Knox.
*5. At place or places frorp Fort Knox tip
the (♦ id Wabafh to Ouittanon, and at Oufttanon.
26. At anv place or places from Ouittanou,
lip tire said Wabafh, to the brad navigation of a
branch thereof called Little River, and at the
said head navigation of Little .River.
27. At any place or plac< s from the fa Id head
navigation of Little Rivgr over u> the Vil
lage.
tS. At any r>l*ce or placcs from the mouth of
the river Tencflee to Occochappo or Bear Creek,
on the said river, inclufivelv
29. At anv place or places from t"he mouth of
the river <Gumt>erUud to Nalhville, on the said
river, and at Nashville,,
30- And at anv place or places within thirty
miies ot said Nalhville to tile Southward, West
ward or Northward thereof.
Should any rations be required at any 'places;,
or within other diflrift,*, not fpecified in theft;
propofils, the price of the fame to be hereaffr
agrt ed on betwixt ihe public and the contractor.
Tne rations to be supplied are to Gonfift ot the
following articles, vi 2.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or £ of a pound 6f pork,
One quait of fait, }
Mwo quarts of vinezar, (
Two pounds ol soap, > P er
One pound of candles, }
The rations are to be furnifhec! infuch quanti
ties as tfoat there ftiall at all time?, during the*faid
term, be futficient tor the confumpnon of the
troops at each of the said pofls, for. the space of*t
least 3 months in advance, in good and whole
some provisions, if the fame fnall be required.
It is to beunderftood in e*dh tafe,that alUoffes
fuUdined by th« depredations of the enemv, or by
means of the troopsot the United Staus, (ball be
paid lor at the pnccs of the articles captund or
destroyed, on the depositions of two or mo-»r
creditable chara&ers, and the ceitificate of a
cornmiflioned officer, al»xfiajning the circunv
ftancesof the loss, and the amount of the articles
tor which compilation is claimed.
The contract for the above fupplie.i will be
made either for on: vear, or ior two years, 3* cna/v
appear eligible. Pcrfons to contwvt
will therelore confine their ofters to on£ year., or
they may make their proportions foas to admit
•an eh ft ion ol the term Of two -years.
The offers may comprise all the which
have been fpecified, or a part ol them only.