■ .A-^.. 'i-jif- -"'i'i ilfeii | n*ii nr'-j ' "'i ►,
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOIIN FENNO, No. 34, NORTH FIFTH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA.
[No. 126' of Vol. IV.]
Chief Jttflkc J A it's opim n, m~ the
vipjitr a Stale Ik li*Ht tc k J«t4 *y J $>'<-
l-ale cutz-cr , fnmlbtr Stutc f" '
[con T 1 (IB 1D.3
\ T TILL it be said, that the fifty odd thou-
VV (and citizens in Delaware being associ
ated tinder a State government, ft and in a
rank so superior to the forty odd thousand of
Philadelphia, associated under their charter,
that although it may become the latter to
meet an individual 0:1 an equal footing in a
Court of justice, yet that such a procedure
Would not comport with the dignity of the
former ?•—'ln this land of equal liberty, fliall
f >rty odd thousand in one place be compella
ble to do justice, and yet fifty odd thou and
in another pjace be privileged to do justice
*nly as they may think proper?— Such objec
tions would not c orrespond with the equal
frights we claim-—with the equality we pro
left to admire and maintain, and with that
popular f«vereiguty in which every citizen
partakes—Grant that the Governor of Dela
ware holds an office of litperioi rank to the
Mayor of Philadelphia—they are both never
theless the officers of the people ; and how
ever more exalted the one may be than the
crtTTgr, ■yet tn rtie oyrinmn of rtmtiy whrd'llke
aristocracy, that ctrr umftance cannot be a
good reaion for impeding the course of jus
tice.
If there be any such incompatibility as is
jiretevded, whence does it arifei iu svhat does
it conftft ?
There is at least one Strong undeniable fact
against this incompatibility--and that is this
any one State in the union may sue ano
ther State, in this court —that is—all the peo
ple of one St ate may sue all the people of ano
ther State. It is plain then, that a State
may be fitcd, aud hence it as plainly follows,
that Jtt ability and State fovercign\y are not in
compatible.
As one state may sue another state in this
eori'ty it is plain that no degradation to a state
is thought to accompany her appearance in
this court— It is not therefore to an appear
ance in this court that the objection points —
To what does it point ? it points to an ap
pearance at the suit of one or more citizens.
But why it should be more incompatible,
that all the people of a state Ihould be fned
by ttwfcn by huisd'f&l- thfyul'ofld,
I cannot perceive—the proceft" in both cases
bsiug alike— th# judgments alike—and flic
corjfeqjjenpes of the judgments ulike. Nor
can I observe any greater inconirevrencfs ifi
the one cafe ttian in the ot'rer. except Vrhal
mar arile from the feelings of those who may
regard a lesser Ituoiber ifl at), inferior lighr.
But if any reliance be made on this infe
riority as an objection, at least one half of its
farce is done away by this faO, viz. that it is
conceded that a State may appear in this
court as plaintiff against a Angle citizen as de
fendant ; and the truth is, that the State of
Georgia is at this moment prosecuting an ac
tion in this court against two citizens of
South-Carolina.
Th? only remnant of objection therefore
that remain* is, that the flare is not bound to
appear and answer as a defendant at the suit of
an individual ; but Why it is unreasonable
that (he should be so bound, is h&rd to con
jecture—That rule is said to be a bad one,
which does not work both ways—the citi
zens of Georgia are content with a right of
suing citizens of other states; but are not
content that citizens of other States should
have a right to sue thent.
Let us now proceed to enquire whether
Georgia has not, by being a party to the na
tional compact, contented to be suable by in
dividual citizens of another state.
This inquiry naturally leads our attention,
Si) To the design of the Constitution.
(2) To the letter and express declaration
in it.
Prior to the Hate of the Confiitution, the
people hod not any nation*! tribunal to winch
th«j could tefoit for distribu
tion oi' j.iftice was thc» confined to state ju
dicatories, in whore inftitotinn and organisa
tion the people of the other States had ro par
ticipation, and over whcm tfccy had not the
lea* conrroul. There was then no general
co«i t oi' appellate jurVfdiftinn, by whom the
ej-ror* iff state roort% lfiirAuig either the na
tion at or the citizc-nt of anyothcr state,
rould lie vevifed and corrfifted. Each stare
Was obliged to atqnieffe in the measure of
juttice which another state might yield to hfr,
or t« her citizens; and that even i» cases
itrb£lif State cciiijdeiatien.s w«re rot alwayj
ta*w.-»y e to the mpft m.«»fiur—thti«
vwihflger that from tjio« fourceMjjuiafirie*
*o«ld in time refnlt • and as tW tfinfition
frojn ■mmolitie* to fwAihrfes wm frequent
in tl* hift»ry of independent fiatefci» cpn>-
lOO>I tribtwiaJ for the (enalnation sis toetn*
•Wits became defirtitl*, fiaa motive's lotl
ef justice and of policy.
I'rior also to that period, the United States
had, by taking a plate among the nations of
the earth, become amenable to the laws of
nations ; and it was their intereil as well r.s
their duty to provide, tliat those laws ihould
be rofpecWd obeyed—ln ih#ir national
Wednesday, August 14, 179 J.
chamber ami capnc : «v, the tJnited ••
•*£*<: to •f.MtiJ'n nations for tlv
condoft of each state, and of the citizens of
each state, relative to the laws ot* nations,
ami the performance <4* treaties ; and there
the inexpediency of referring all such quef
ticnis to it ate courts, and particularly to the
courts of delinquent states, became apparent.
While were bound to protect tabA,
and the citizens of it was highly proper
and reaforiabie, that they ihould be in capaci
ty, not only to caui'e justice to be done to each,
and the citizens of each ; but a'ifo to car-use
justice to be done by each, and the citizens oi
each; and that, not by violence and iVncc,
but in a stable, sedate, and regular course <»f
judicial proccdine.
These were among the evils againfl; which
it was proper for the nation, that is, the peo
ple of all the United States, to provide by a
national judiciary, to be instituted by the
whole nation, and to be reiponiibie to the
whole nation.
Let us now turn to t'le conftifution.
The people therein declare, that their dc
fign in eftabliihing it, compiehendt'd fix ob
jects.
ri ' (if T« ft® unf vntifc perfecV^uuion.
(2) To eltablifh justice.
(3} To ensure domestic tranquility.
(4) To provide for the common defence.
(5) To promote the general welfare.
(6) To secure the blessings of liberty to
themselves and their posterity.
Jt would be pleating and uleftif to consider
and trace the relations which each i»f theie
objects bears to the others; and to shew that
they colie&tyclv comprise every thing requi
lite, with the btelfing of Divine Providence,
to render a people p.'ofperous and happy—On
the present occaiion such disquisitions would
be nnfeafonaWr/ because foreign to the fub
je& immediately under tori fide rat ion.
It may be alfced, what is the precise sense
and latitude in which the woids uto tftobhfn
jiiflice," as here uftd, are to be ucdciitood ?
The an,Avei' to this question will reftilt from
the provisions made in the Constitution on
this head. They arefpecified in the 2d. f(?ft«
of the gci. article, where it is ordained, that
the judicial power of tl»e United States fliall
extend to ten descriptions of cases, viz
(!) To al? ctife.i Hrifing tttttfet this
tion—Becanfe t!w? meaning, conftru&ion and
operation of a compact ought always to be j
ascertained by all the parties, or by alithori- ,
ty derived from them all ; and not by one ot
the parties, or by authority derived only from !
one of them.
(2) To all cases arising under the laws cf
the United States—Because as such laws con
ftitutionallv made, are obligatory on each
flare, the meafureof obligation and obedience
ought not to be decided and fixed by the par
ty from whom they are due, hut by a tribunal
deriving authority from both the parties.
(3) To all cales arifmg under treaties made
by their authority—Because, as treaties are
compa&s made by, and obligatory on, the
whole nation, their operation ought not to
be affected or regulated by the local laws or
courts of a part of the nation.
(4) To all cases affecting ambalTadors, or
other public ministers and confute— Because,
as these a- e officers of foreign nations, whom
this nation are bound to protect and treat
according to the laws of nations, cases al
tering them ought only to be cognizable by
national authority.
(5) To all cases of admiralty and maritime
junfdr&ion—Becaufe, as the seas are the
joint property of nations, whose rights and
privileges relative theieto, are regulated by
the law of nations and treaties, such caJes ne
ceflarily belong to national jurifdi&ion.
(6) To controversies to which the United
States Shall be party—Because in cases in
which the whole people are it
would not be equal or wife to let any one
Hate decide and measure out jthe justice due
to the others.
(7) To controversies between two or more
Rates—Because domestic tranquility requires,
that the contentions of states ihould be peace
ably terminated by a common judicatory ;
and, becanfe, in a free country justice ought
not to depend on the zvill of either of the liti-
gants.
(8) To controversies between a Hate and
citizen"? of another ftate—Beeaufe in cafe a
state (that is all the otizens oiit) has de
mands against fctne citizens cf another Hate,
it is better that she should protecute their de
mands i>» a national court, than in a court of
the state to which those citizens belong— the
danger of*irritation and criminations ariling
from apprehensions and fufpitiors oi partial
r-.ity, being thereby obviated.
Beeaufe, in cases where some citizens oi one
state have demands against all the citizens ol
another ftawe, the cause of liberty and the
rights of men forbid, that the latter should
he the sole judges of the justice due to the
latter; and true republican government re
quires that free and equal citizens should have
free, fair, and equal justice.
(9) To controversies between citizens of
the iarae state, clausing lands undtr grants
501
of different ftates—.-Bs-cauOr, a< ?'>e ii> of
the two llafes to grant the l.ni ft, are drjiWn
into question, neither of tlie two Hates ought
to dec ide the controversy.
ftp) To cftnti overfies between 2 state, or
the citizens thereof; and foreign fhites, citi
zens or fubjetfls—Because, asevtry ndt'on
responsible for the condutfi of its citizens to
wardl; other nation's ; all qQefttons touching
th* justice due to foreign batons or people,
flight to he ascertained by, and depend on na
tional authority.
Kven this curfbry view of the judicial pow
?rs of the United States, leaves the mind
strongly imprelfed with the importance of
t hem to the prefer vat of the tranquility,
the equal foverciguty, and the equal rights
the people.
(To be continues!.)
From the (A-fw-Yori) DAILY ADVERTISER.
Chi lds & Sw ai n i,
THAVf) hern informed, at the meeting in
the Fields, on Tharfcby lisft, rcfpc6t<ng the
j lopriciy of Citizen Genet, I was
'opofed »« one of a committer for that j.ur
• 7 -tfCifyh«'i t- r&-t>y pVc-
-st* ihat I *'»s oppo.'ed to the im afure.
The part which I have puifued, in the most
public end unequivocal manner, and attach
ment I h?ve manifefted in various wavn for the
F ench 'Rrpublie, has rendered it nec< flary that
feme reasons fnould be afligned for a conduct so
appaienily iriconfiftcnt with former profeffions.
Ir may not be arnifs to prtmifr, that some
weeks ago, I very earjricjHy originated with ano
ther person, and promoted, means for an ad
rftefs'ta be then presented to the minister of
Fiance. It being deemed premature by a num
ber of friends (tho' very much again ft my opi
nion) | formed that addrofs for mytclf, which
has been presented to public view—and tho' I
am periuaded the affeftton of Americans to the
ranf. of that new and great Republic, is not in
the smallest degree diminished ; yet circumstan
ces have lately occurred, which might render it
at lc?ft highly problematical how far we can be
juftificd in duly lo ourfel.ves, in the way of ad
drefy, to express our gratulation*, thro' the Mi
nijler, to his conilituents—l therefore, at Jeaft,
would have been glad of a pofi tx.nement.
My reasons were the following ; they were
-f 'undent tKr t'-rn# to roe \ Ser the h ?uci' -
of my fellow-citizrns, I belicte if they had had
the fame impreflions of their authenticity, nine
tenths of those who met in the Fields, would
have embrace d the fame opinion :
Fir ft—Mr. Onet has declared, that if the
Prefidtfnt of the United Stairs of America pur
f'ued measures agreeably to his cnnftru&ion of
treaties, he (Mr. Genet) would appeal to the
people. This, or the substance thereof, is con
tained to one of his memorial* to the Pre/idem,
or wJSverhalVy reportrd upon an official com
munication. Had he said, he would appeal to
the conftitured authorities of his own country,
for ?dvice and' dire£fion, he would have atted
confidently ; and like a man who knew the
proper extent of his power and duty: but to
threaten the firft Magistrate of an independent
republic, that if he did not conform to:he plea
sure of a French Miflionarv, he would appeal lo
the people, that is, would incite tht'm to infur
rc&ion, riot and rrcafon, \s a species of arro
gance and indignity to thai Magiftrate,and thro'
him to the whole government, and every free
American, which could never have been ex
pelled, towards a people who have mani felled
mod zealous and «'ccid<?d paiiiahiy to the
nation he icprefents. Mr. Genet, tho' hereto
fore he was the fubjell of a despotic monarchy,
ought by this time to have at Jeaft learnt, thar in
a country where there is no tyrant, but the
known laws of the land, the people, as fucb,
have no judiciary, legifl.nive, or executive pow
ers 10 exercise, but ihro' the medium of their re
fpcttive repieffntaiive?, in their fcveral depart
ments. Bv the Laws and Constitution of our
country, all the powers of government have been
conligned to those reprefentative?—they v irtually
confhtuie, and are the people, by representation,
I freely and legally conferred—they are the only
organs of the law, known to us I v the constitu
tion ; to them alone, in their different stations,
appertains the exclusive right of making, of in
terpreting and of executing the laws when re
qmfite. Foreign Ambafladori will find, mod
aiforedlv, that Americans are a sedate, orderly,
reflecting kind of men—too feufible to be long
impoftd upon by the intrigues of or
Frenchmen, and 100 spirited to fuffer rheir dig
nity and sovereignty tube invaded by llrangers,
in their commerce with the Guardians of our
Liberty and Honor. If a French wr English
AmbafTador, cfiarge d'Affaires or € »n'ul, may
f3y to Us, or our Magistrate, thji i> the conjiruc
tion \eu mujl jut vpon your treaty, or law, and (hall
obfeive the lame accordingly, or 1 will appeal
tothe people—then (indeprndent of the audacity
ofthe thing, which is the fame, whether right
or wrong in his opinion) we have no further use
for President, Congress, Governors or Coniza
tion ; we immediately become the vafTals of fo
reign usurpers. No, my fellow'citizen*, so long
ast we acknowledge there does exist a Constitu
tion, and that under it we have an organized go
vernment, we the people, independent of that
constitution and government, have in our indivi
dual capacitier, no a6ts of sovereignty remaining,
hot fhole of thinking, speaking, petitioning and
iiiuonitrating—a sovereignty which I hope we
(hail iotcver retain inviolate. If our magiftraus
[Whole No. 44$*]
br'.ray rr»-v» h-ivff l»v rv.r own free
\vitt, iilf-gd v c iiahhf 1 < d U a.icciui.-c- to
thru removdl, or j»unifhm M iit. Hour 1.-iws are
"n thrmfelves deficient, we have prtlcribed ihf
mftdf, by whuii ihey (laall be amended, ex
plained, or annulled—- aiMl if ihe conflimn* n i«-
ffcH, i{, imperfect, we have, by it, declared., the
mode feV which n fhalj be co-it£U«), God for
bid l hnt in this free, ami enlightened
we, or our pt>fteritv, fhouM cvtr
fee the day, that a mob, efpeciaUy under the
auspices of any foreign influence, or connivance,
fliould aflame the leigns- of gove«nment, and
diffare in that form, to their public trufttej, and
the contmcnt, what shall be the law of the land.
Secondly. It is reported, that th»* French
Ambaflador, when applied to by the Governor
of Pcnnfylvania to deliver 110, or order from on
board one of the armed vrlifVis of France in the
Dclawatc, certain citizens of that state, who had
entered into the few ice of the Republic, the
AmbaflTrfrtor refufed so to do—that he talked of
the privateer defend t.g force bv force— and even
boa ft d that he soon expefV d the arrival of a
flret by which he would alTert his right and op
poft* force to torce. I have however the charrty
(the prermfes r»<vtwnhftanding) »o believe this
r-nmof all be true. But upon what principle
tut 'HTet pf^svivt-nar nation, and
vnriment of i', could he rrfufc a from
the Governor, so Tafonable and neccfl.-iry on our
part, as a people, who tegard their public peace,
and the fai»V* of treaties.
Thirdly. There have bern two publications,
in Philadelphia, one in English the other in
French vrrfe, villifying in the molt impertinent
and opprohious manner, not only per font in the
highest drpanments of Mate, bin even Wafhin*-
lon, the biave, and viituous fa'hT and f-viotir
of onr countiy. Thefirft of these pieces, the
printer wasfor:ed to acknowledge, was writ
ten by Mr. Genet's Secre'ary. The latter i$ im
puted to him, as being in Fiench verse, at which,
he is said to bold a dexterous pen. C»rt there
be ?n American wbofe foul is not filled with
holy atf £hon, and gratitude at the remem
brance of the deeds and conduct of General
? Yes—-To the dif*'ace of human
nature, there are even Americans, who ft (fling
the cknvr£tion of confcieoee—who uifbing lo
destroy »lie federal government, and with it our
present tranquility and" happiness, for the chance
of plunder in the wreck ; daik, concealed, tia
terous men, who hoping to gratify 1 heir inordi
nate 1 ' ' * ' "* '
rations, and icpair their »uineri fortunes-, who
ride in their conches, and hold ihoufands in
bondage, unable and unwitting to pay hiir Bri
tifli debts, lo ♦ Ire amount of a million fieri dig.
I fav then; are inch who dare, impiously dare,
for those lealons, to profane the reputation of
that soldier and patriot, whose name is revered
by the world. But language inuft want ex
prffTion for our cruelty, fuoirienefs. or cowar
dice, if nt home wt ramely fiiffer the majesty of
the nation to be infultcd by the interfetence of
foreigners in our internal politics, and the wan
ton abuse of our public officers.
Americans idolize the cause of the French —
they consider it the cause of mankind—as theif
own cause, and that of their pottrrity, for ages
to come. Thry wou'd fight, they would die to
support the independence of the Gallican Re
public, when convinced it is neceflary. Thcv
will rver pay a due reipoft to the fcrvants of
France, and all o her u <tiom<, whilst they behave
with propriety. These things have been fully
evinced. But Americans pay more homage to
their own country, and to their own mmiftcrSj
than to those of any other nation ; and if ever
the competition arises, which is our favorite
man, they will certainly, adopting the language
of the poet, fay,
" Genet and Wash! nctov, how they found t
11 A feather, and ten thousand pound——"
Fourthly. It is ?lfo said, that Mr. Genet has
attached himfeH in a particular manner to the
known enemies of the federal government ; to
the revilersof the President, and of almost every
public fun&ionary of rank in it, and that
his general conduit has been ftu;h as to render it
suspicious th.ii he teally wifhesby management
with a certain set of men to fupjKHt the ftandatd
of party in out" already too much divided land.
If these imputations are founded in truth, and
I have fufficient evidence to fatisfy mv mind
that thcv are all literally or fubftinriallv so, then
if Mr. Genet regards the true interests of his
country, if He has declared the fa& when he
said the Republic did not define us to engage in
the war, hut only to manifeft our good will, See.
If be wifhet to avoid the retaliation of h?s in
dignities offered to our government, he will in
the most public manner alter his past line of
conduct, or retirui to his fellow citi?en« in
France, for a fubftiture who may b«tter under
stand theobjr£ls of his embr-fTy, and havr-aynfter
fen ft of the real American cfiafafter.
That *' peace may be within thv walls, O J--
rufaltm," is the fniccrc p»aver of your well
meaning: Citisen Wm. WIJLLCOCKS.
New-York, Avgvji c, 1793.
Ditty.
• '"tilt tht )>«»»«/< of
, h» ip » rcc ' v4 A»b«ff«<r»fr
and JlWftef' jiW rtii-pwiicui*,.
hf is ihe rttclultv? «oiidu£lor c( ihe ua iou ; and
in £hi» particular, tht f<M*i*igb'Y of the naiinn
rrftdet in him alow. Thr fYrMrm, bv Tirtu# 1
■ «>( tWs.powtr, h» r<(eite4 CiHlfi Gn*f tfc
Aotufbcoi, aw! ftiU rceoftiize* bin M fvKJu.
0
-.V. " •»M s » fr» t j
'»11^*1 V *' ' ;' '^'.'** l' °
it|>r(l«u«. ffie il in-ai»ali(\ ®sri&
*ri& > pctKJrt, « j
;:5 Inflg iiWjtolittAunto be fully jcknowJtoU' a
m luch by fcirrCHwf ~" r »*« V •
bound il lh '
lo
lllil, ami i.CßinjJ^jsrfU.Al?; l "? 4«' kr /" 1
wr jha)l or '
fa<io«|»-Ou/ S<*V Vf*?"#*'i*Ys<2, v '
sa& ii)*'iraL <**"
nri ftould Jpj'uiw^Wi f.' w °'
Ntw-Yoikj he iooli ,
hinifrlf, io p;cv r\rn to him
vihile .l Fh.Urt<iplriir;-Iteiriert»» '*|pti* i»" "jK;
P'.f. ii»
in thii,£jVi£": tht! tfi** \tt «ta« p?Vni«rrflTf.
and" ui i«vifci >» fii li li
wj! ai tiyi^«r/.X c ' i'i» 3'H ;-- l
I..'lt* »r«*'"iftiHtf 'it*
illil Cfii/fii Cwirt h TJ^ 4 " l ll( < If!Ltn,
Hov. Jiaii'lit 1 - l v '
Ijft. f- fcW ihc
h iu 'i* a lop
pif!un:e I; )o >''t
so, hf iwr.va l |>< M ft <'.**>.}>"
J'l ( iHi ii. ; ;iv. |}Jii'll£ **i lOCft
lull- ltd the 11 [ tijc yA^^Sfejt^fto.v,
be infirjuii : Gfiici:6a»SVW>».'tl ,l *L;
i: mutt hwv berri iit W'i official .
llirooghtiiif paflTei mritK-iiaijon.
rocks I'tjudgr »»J U*'» Ot »s il the
? fur" mylflf j Hw«W
< idr—,md ItflntH ei»i»Mft(f rt»M>«ri«* alwie aou~"
H»irtii>iuV , "''ttht, <■'•>" y*' u I>IK- muniim
i■ i tic<ii<lyour own ro IHI (* whtrii ol "I.- tu-o
pti.fnns in P'><nl ct wi! nortl< |;likJcici', <ii J_nu\,
i t-.ij^liit'Oit,'firrtvuffc iti|4 iiaiyi''liiin» is l,iic b H
Hiiiidgc ori.ihe flHijccl ui Cl' Cl
- cott<s»t), .*» «A<nlMM«rZ,Qui-'-M#»f«l
>x« I'lr ihtfc ci*ht«n y^J-palt
<),n oiri it»e '■$(■ •»'»}' '"f '<» *•>*'
hj^cp"' 14 'n l ' *' wl
fellow ciiiit i»H <i^|
.'■ ,•■■■. >*
- ,&i'W $.. .
"\f Y ai-yve,Ain this city,
JL ahoat Jiatrfaft-t *«We o'clock,
CiUawß l)le » i l'°-
v Repubjic of
of Ame
•Bat"
"»rry gen
tlemen(«'(«(} sips that pi«i J>oiie,
at a feder?l faluii wsls
to
the Tan I £ ofl^e-flouTe amidtt
live actla«natioift ufa vast coitco-uric
of ciciiens, »U«n ih« following a<!-
<lre'"s was read by Doctor Pitt Siiiith,
one of ihe iriemberp of tlie Coinmit
tee. - ' ■
Citizen - ,
WE are deputed by and have the
honor to addief3 you in tlie name of
th'e Republicans of this Metropolis.
Informed of your ariival in. our
country, we have been long earnelt
ly \i i{hing to receive yon us the Re
prefeiitative of a nation Wruggling
in the glorious cause of freedom and
humanity—of a nation animated by
sentiments ton congenial with our
own, not to excite the warmelt sym
pathy of friendfhip and exultation.
It is true «e feel the diftrelfes of
♦ur country 1 ; we lament the blood
<>f patriot heroes, and -the misery
entailed on the innocent by the o)v.
ftinacy of pride and the cruelty of
ambition—But liberty is too invalu
able not to be purchased at any
price ; and we are not to damp the
joy itifpired on this occasion by re
calling to the mind, what our own
liber - ies have cost us,or the immense
facrifiees made by your countrymen
on the alter of fieedom.
We confidently trust, that under
the guidance of a benign although
unseen arm, the political circum
(lances of mankind are rapidly me
liorating and improving. That the
Repnblic qf France is made a mod
diftinguifiied instrument in this
great, this godlike wotk, and we
fhoiild do violence to our feelings
were we not to seize an occasion
like the present to manifeft to the
world, how much we are inrerefted
in the dawn of universal happinels,
in the triumph of liberty, and its
certain confequenre the peace and
profperitv of nations.
Thro* the timely aid' of France,
these United States have been bro'c
to the full enjoyment of the Med
iums of civil liberty The services
of your countrymen in the hour of
our distress, were eff'efrtial,arid were
chearfolly rendered, and though
despots may absurdly claim the me
rit of them, we know better t«
J '.vfcnKi the feti: iirtei.it of grat nude ia
to bs d»/eet«rd »• Jiuf »» ardcu.ly i''
wijii (ttftJt-ii"imenc HI reuvii.ii ''"'ft 1
I ibly iu«jT! ou ; iie lieim <»*' , '
reuiotcfl pn'.lei i; y.—V, e i '
in t »,e defender* of llutir r#wS» «' e ! '
defender, of orrr right* ■; and in the ! '
patriots of France, the benelaitoi*
of America.
We tliis day, tender to you owr
heart, and through you toyoui na
tion our warm ami iuitiifgoilcd af
fections— 'ie afluied, Sir, we are
both ready and willing io render
you every fei vice and aifllln-nce con-<
/ifteiit'wTi si oiir reciprocal welfaje
and with 'the duty we owe
try —nay 'more, exultingly would
we thug facrifice a liberal portion ol
onr dearest inteiells, could there
refijlt on your behalf an adequate
advantage.
The voice oforir government has,'
thro 11 a!i its executive declared the
neiiirality of these United States as,
relative 10 all ailts of hostility—We
rcg.-ri d ihai facied voice withfllteii
iton—iiut no oneis a (Ir.-vnger to the
part all good men take in your re
volution. the (jnellion relates to
lentiment and piinciple there is no
neutrality — The virtuous and the
wife through all ranks of focietj
are enliftrd with you. It is vice,
ignprance and cowardice that alone
oppose tlie empire of truth and in
dependence, or (brink from iht
common mule <>f nature —>Kit m and
Heady friends you will ever find in V
the Republican foil* of Columbia,
whose mod earnest prayer to the
gieai Arbiter of nations is, and will
be, that the liberty of both coon
tries may remain incorruptible and
immortal ; that ths world may lee
in their example and felicity the
: path of .foci a I improvement and the
iiieltiraable prize of virtuous exer-
lions.
Permit us, worthy citizen, to ex
press to yon our liij*b efleein for
your perfort and character, our fin
cereft wishes in general for your
peifonal happiness and profpeiiiy,
And in particular, that you may
long fulfil ihe duties of your exalt
ed (tation so as to merit the appro
bation of your ovjn heart and to )e
---cure the plaudit of your conltitn
ems.
James NicJhoj.kon, Chairman.
White Mat-lack, becretary.
CITIZEN GENET,
Minister Plenipotentiary of the
Freuch Republic,
To the R f ruBUCA ns oj Nc-w-York.
FROM the firft moment of my ar
rival on this continent, Iwifhedfor
an opportunity to pay a vifii to our
Republican bieth*r<eu of New Yoik:
and greet them with the embrace of
ft atonal affection. Important and
urgent bnfjtiefs has pi evented : me
from executing sooner this my fa
vorite defigti ; but it now fills me
with the gieateft joy that 1 am at
last enabled to find niyfelf in i)ie
mid it of \ ou. . &.M
Youraddrels, fraught with' the
moll genuine principles of Repußli
canifui, and with that lively sensibi
lity which kindred feelings only
can excite in the citizens of one na
tion towards thole of another, has
filled my heart with the tendered
emotions and with fenfatious too
strong for utterance.
1 (hall trail fin it to my countrymen
these generous effufions as your
ft ienchhip, and let me allure you
that every fentimenr that it con
tains will meet on their part with
the moll cordial reciprocity.
On this joyful occasion, recollec
tion ought iiot indeed to be tortur
ed with the remembraftce of past
ftifFerings, but a Frenchman, at this
critical juncture, cannot help ani
mating his hopes with the example
of the long and severe trials of the
citizens of New-York, and of their
glorious triumphs.
May you enjoy long, very lotrg
the precious fruits of that triumph ;
may the peace, the glory, and the
Independence of the United States,
la It as long as the foil on which you
tread. These are not only my in
dividual wilhes, but they are also
the wishes of the country I have
the honor to represent, and she has
exprefled them to you in the molt
Unequivocal manner.
502
11l tlitfinitlll ofiier diftrefl'cs,while
Von are - lie only ally to whdn inc
i> entitled to look tor ailiflance, ihe
has pi-HencJ enjoying the fpetfta
cle of your prosperity, and calling
on you to partake of all Ihe riches
«» her commerce, to involving you
with her in a conin>on danger. Still
(lie has not ceased relying on your
friendship, and oil all the aids which
you yourselves might think in your
ppwer to afford. Still (he experts
from you a faithful and a punctual
otifervance of thole treaties which
ffie has entered into wish you in
the hour of your dangeri, and of
w'hfch she has fulfilled her part in a
manner worthy <> f lierfelf.
In this .refpert, 1 cannot interpret
otherwise that you have done the
declaration of yotir government,
'fihey tnuft know that the ftritft per
fbrmance of treaties is'the belt and
policy, they nioft know that
good faith alone, can insure refpec
tibility to a nation ; that a pufflla
iijmous conduct provokes info'lence,
and; brings upon a country, thole
vpry dangers which it weakly means
to avert.
There is indeed but too much
reason to fear that you are involved
in the general conspiracy of tyrants
againfi liberty. They never will,
they never can forgive yoo,ft»r'hav
ijig be*n the firft to proclaim the
rights of ftian. Bur you will force
them to irefpert yon, by purfuihg
\*ith fi.imnefs the only path which
»> confillent with your national ho
nor and dignity.
The cause of France is the cause
of all mankind, and no nation is
vnore deeply interefled than you are
in its success. Whatever fate a
waits her- you are ultimately to
(hire. But the cause of liberty is
great and it shall prevail.
And if Prance under a despotic
yoke has been able Co •fuccelsfuily
f to iillert your rights, they can never
again be endangered while she is at
liberty, to exert in your support,
that powerful arm which now defies
the combined efforts of a whole
woi Id.
Accept my moll grateful thanks,
for your kind wishes for my perfon
»l happiness. May France, may
America, may the citizens of New-
York, be happy, and your wish shall
be fulfilled. ' GENET.
Foreign Intelligence.
O O
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION,
May «O.
BARRERE read tlie following dis
patches, which give an account
of lhe progress of the Royalilts :
Letter from the, commandant ofthe weft
■divijion of the army of ref-rvs,' to
the adminiflrators of the department
of Marine and Loire.
" St. George's, May 24.
" Upon reqeivng yefterd ny even
ing the alarming news, that the Re
bels were attempting to pal's, the
Loire near Chalons, I inflantly or
dered the general to be beat, and
collecting as litany troops as 1 could,
left St. George's at ten o'clock at
night, and advanced towards Poll
Girault, at the head of the national
guards, and a detachment of caval
ry. Before 1 set out, 1 dispatched
exprefles to the commandants of L 1-
len, La Pelfloniere, Saveniers, and
Lapointe, with orders to beat the
general immediately, and fend out
numerous and frequent patrolest on
the right and left of the banks in
order to guard the whole exient of
the pods with all poflible attention.
I dispatched the Gendarmes to go
the rounds, and fee again to the ex
ecution of those orders. Myfelf,
and the national guards, under my
com mand,remained watching under
arms frorri ten'o'clock last night to
five in the morning, When fee re
turned to St. George's. I kept all
the while patroles incellantly going
011 all fides where they could be of
use. The rebels have indeed effec
tuated nothing as yet, but they are
in force from Rochefort to Sr. Flo
rent, and seem to meditate freib at
tempts upon that line.
c< I have jnft beat; the general a
gain, and fliall proceed wiih tny'na
lioiialguaidsto secure ihe weak ell
molt threatened pc.fls- ' !ft if)
inierim, I conjure vou, ci;iztn
miniftrators, t<> lake ever}' lieceflarv
mealure to halteii itie reinforce",
nients of which we Hand in such
great need ; I have just heard from
the coinmalider of Savinicrs, that
the rebels have appeared on the
fide of Roehefort with 200 horl'c
and have fired several voliies over
the barges.
(Signed) " GAUVELLIER."
fetter from Citizen Gourifeu, conmatt
dant of the Isle of Cha/onnes, to Citi
zen Gauvi liter,
" From the.llUnd
" CITIZF. N,
We have pasTed the night in tran
quility, but to-day I fenrfeven inert,
vineyard laborers, to obtain intelli
gence ; the banditti lold them,that
they gave them the whole day to
consider which fide they would
take ; on their return they inform
ed us, that their grand army arriv.
Ed yesterday and this flight, at St.
Laurent, ft) numerous, that a! 1 the
roads were crouded with them •,
that they have 14 pieces of cannon,
and thai to-morrow they intend to
commence the attack.
Letter fr-om the Cojnmijfarin to the ar
my R tcbeUis.
" May 27.
" We have received intelligence
of a complete defeat. Having learn
ed th*r 1 lie em-mies w*rt aboin 16
attack Chaberguery, we ordered the
army to fall buck to Fomenai. At
lialf past one the enemies presented
themselves in the plain. Their co
i hunris were formidable. Already
: they began so vraver ; their defeat
would have been complete, if the
national gendarmes had charged
them Hccoiding to otders. But
these men, itiftead of*fighting, fled,
beating down o'ltr infantry without
the possibility of being rallied. Our
artillery being no longer fnpported,
soon disbanded, and fell back by
different ways, as far as the high
road from Fotuenai and Niort. A
great part of our artillery was tak
en, and the of the reft was
only owing to the courage of Gene
ral DMyl, and the chief oftheftafF,
Neuvion, who with flu* dragoons
repeatedly charged the enemy's ca
valry. Eight hundred met) retired
to Niort ; b:it there they have sworn
rather to die, than to capitulate."
" Four o'clock
(Signed)
" GOURDEN."
L O N 15 O N, June 8.
Citizen Jfitard has denounced Mr.
Pitt to the French Convention, as
the Colleague of the pert'ons who
create difjnites in the galleries there.
He is nor exartly fine, that Mr. Pitt
has been in Paris incog, r® promote
the business, but he knows that the
Bgitateiirs ate hired by him. The
next accounts will certainly relate,
that the Convention have ordered
Mr. Pitt into arrest !
The,people of. Paris re, how
ever, thought fn likely to be ailed
<upou l»jf. r bitliultM*- iiojU&H-feyt-fcwX *
the accusation wjis ferfourty urdefrecl
to be placaided in all the ftrcets,
and Citizen lfnard fat (T<ywn"amidft
the applaafes of the Afleritbly.
Some Engti(h gentlemen, lately
arrived from France, report, that
there is a general diftnclinption in
the people of that country to fuf
fering foreign powers 10 interfere
in the formation of their govern
ment ; but leaving them to this li
berty, that there is every a-ppear-'
a nee of anxiety for peace ; that as
the Eriglifh ministry appeared to
them the principal authors of the
war, an appeal had been drawn up
to the English people, expreflive of
a desire of peace, which the gentle*
men refufed taking over, for fear
it might give offence to government.
The India company have clofcd.
with the offer of the proprietors of.
their own ltock, for an addition of
one million to their capital, by way
of loan. The fubferi prion is taken
at 200 per cent, which, will furni/h
2,c00,0001. in ready money, and
lea"e the fubferibers a bonus of
from 610 7 per cent. This is little
more than half ihp profit which
Mr. Pitt's loan afforded, and yet we
do not hear that there wasany com;
petition. But Co good a thing as
the minister's loan, for the life and
fortune, more cannot be expe^edtwice in a year. They comfort
the in fe Ives in the profpett of the
•war's continuing, and thank God
tliat there is a good time coming.
PORTSMOUTH, June 6.
On the id inftanr, the Soyne
took a French (hip privateer, of 40
guns, and 160 men, a fine new vel
fel, just off the Itocks, and out 14
days from St. Malo'es ; had been un
fuctefsful until that moment, when
{he captured the Enterprize, a valu-
Ihip from Calcutta bound toOliend,
the cargo supposed to be chiefly En
glith property. The Enterprize
wa»'uiid-er American colours.
United States.
KNOXVILLE, July i?.
In consequence of the depredati
ons commuted by Indians,inWear's
cove, a number of the inhabitants,
alarmed by these enormities, aflem
bled 'together to conlult for their
common faf'eiy, to condole with
each other on their fuffevings, and
to lament the too long neglect of
succour from the general govern
ment of the United States, when
they concluded to follow the trail
of these daring barbarians, anddif
cover from what source their mise
ries originated. About 60 men met,
chafe thsir officers, placed Col. Sa
muel Wear at their head (which
•wa*/gi*crr op-liy- LitfureifaTit Hen
derfun, who had (he command of a
party of men in that neighborhood,
by order of the government) and
v. it h a determination to check these
villains, marched to the mountains,
where they discovered several trails,
winding various ways, which at 1a It
terminated in one plain, beaten
path, leading to Tallaflee, a town
ft'uatdin. the mountains, boasted of
by Indians, as inaccellible to the
white people. Near this town they
overtook a number of Indians on
the north bank of the Tennelf'ee,
when a heavy fire began 011 both
fides; but Ihe Indians soon leaped
into the river, on which the whites
van to the bank, killed fifteen fel
lows, and took four fqttaws prison
er*> which they have brought in
with, ttwutv, «ivi wjfli tn exchange
for the property taken from them.
During rhe engagement on the
north, a-yfliarp Hi e was kept tip by
the lnd ians from the foiith fide of j
the river. !t is to be regretted thac
« squaw was by accidenc killed in
the wqrer,
We are happy to add, that not a
man belotigirtg to this scout was
hurt. And it is to be remembered
that government had limited ofFert
five operations to the north bank of
the Tenneflee.
BOSTON, Anguft i.
\Vhilft the heaven-descended prin
ciples of' benevolence are ftimulac
ing our fellow citizens of the i'out h
ern States, to the mod laudable ex
ecijiiiis £»r Ui« relief of the unhap
py exiles from Cape Krancnis, and
extending the hand of succour to
everj' defer+ption of the dilt/'e (led ;
■we are happy to acquaint the world,
that this town, ever foreinoft in
those atfts which dignify and adorn
human nature, has anticipated the
wants of these children of dittrefs,
and a very liberal fubfeription is
now making for their immediate rc
lief, should they seek an asylum in
this metropolis. The eye of om
nifcience mull view with peculiar
benignity, the offerings made on the
altar of difimeielted benevalence
and charity.
SERIOUS QUESTIONS.
If the citizens of the United
States Ihonld permit the privateers
of I lie French (republic to lie in ain-
Ijiiih in their ports, and I'nlly out at.
pleasure to way-lay the veliels we
have before invited to ourfhores, ro
put chafe the prodixft of our foil.
From whence are the benefits which
we- were led to expeifi from ourfuc
eefsful llriiggle in war, the attain
ment of our independence, and our
commercial treaties with the powers
ot Ktirope to lie derived ? If the
United States are to surrender their
Commercial connexions wit h Britain,
Ireland, Rnffia, PrulTia, Spain, For.
mgal, Holland and Savoy, do they
exjiedt to find a market for tlifir
produce in France—iubjei'ted as il
inuft be to the reprisals of the ci'hi
zers armed againlt her? If an an
swer can be given to tliefe quelli""s,
let the partizans for war (for fueh
are our declaimers, for the oblerv
atice of treaties, notwithstanding
their di'fguife) give them, and satis
fy the manufacturer, merchant, and
the farmer, who deprecate the hor
rors of war.
NEW-YORK, August 9. '
ajll the Briiitfi ports in the Weft- 1
Indies are open for American ves
sels to carry all kinds of provisions
there. Salt provisions particularly
are 111 uth wanted, and prices very
high—Beef from 6 to 71. sterling
per barrel.— Pork 8 and 91, ditto
per ditto. The very high price is
supposed to be occasioned by the
great supply sent to the Enrope;iVP
powers in alliance with Knglamf
againfl France, as the Irilh fait pro
visions were usually sent 10 the Bri
tiflt Weft-lndit islands ; they are
sent to these powers. So much for
the 'Englifli joining the Euidptan
powers again ft France.
Philadelphia, Aug. 14.
ExtrQ?la} 4 ItlUr J fj&m. s jo Cadiz, to his 1
brother in A'tit— Y'prk) d&t'td fuve 24, rC.ccncd k\
tjit brig SjlzrS) Capt. Shtjfitld, arrivld there the
9 th injiant.
u There is a hot war with the Spaniards
and French. We bail accounts from Malaga
of a battle being fought between the French
and Spaniards ; the French, have defeated
them with the loss of about two thonf&nd
niei', and the Spaniards loft upwards of fix
thousand men
u The French have got theftraights block
ed up at Malaga, with, a very ft rang -fleen—
Lift week Admiral Hood flopped herewith
28 fail of the line. Six of them came in and :
anchored : There has been fevera! of their
officers on,board of us.—They seem to (peak,
very unfavorable of their expedition. Their
ships in very inclitferenUv manned. ,
4< They are so be joined by twenty failftf
the lif'ie of Spaniards, which are lying here
now; there are sou: flrps of 126 gum, they
arejuft waiting for orders, so I expe-51 there
wiifbe warm work fliortly."
On Wedne r day lad, the m after, m te, and
f'vvo of the Tailors belonging to an American
voifei, jlift arrived from St. Domingo, were
apprehended, on a charge of having been ac
tually concerned with the New-Providence
privateer's men, in plundering the unfor
tunate Fr-\nch who had taken lanc
tuary in the Teflel, and expected the |)ro
tation, as far as it was natural to give it, du
ring tiie p.ifftge to Philadelphia. Some ot
those have been committed to jail, ar.d will
be treated as the law dire&s. The proofs
them were principally confined to The
discovery of Gold Watches, and other pro
perty, belonging to the pafTengers, which
were detected in their chests.
In a Richmond, Virginia paper, of the Jtl>
instant, it is afTerted that the Senate of the
State of MalTachufetts paflfed a Resolution on
the 23th June, to inftrufl the Senators of that
State in Congr;f; —The truth is, no. fuel)
Resolution lias palfed the Senate of Malfa
iihufettj. The Resolution alluded to was <t
ported by a joint Ccmmltce of both Houles—it
palfed in the House—but hot in the Senate—
and war. finally referred to the next feflion.
Capt. Sheffield, from Madeira, informs, on
the 4'h May, War was declared by the French
against Portugal. In June a Portugucfe
fctiojner was taken by the French, but reta- J
ken by the Eng ilh and carried to Madeira,
where Ihe was delivered up to the owners,
salvage being paid ; in consequence the por
tuguese have seized in port, & sent a French
Indiaman to Madeira, va'ued at 70,000!.
sterling. A frigate has b?en at Madeira, fays
lhe spoke off Cape-Finnifter, 10 (hips of war,
11 frigates, 6 sloops of war and 2 cutters, on
their way to join the combined fleet in the
Mediterranean.
The Cqmwr.-e, a French (hip of near 400 j
tons from the M "iriiius (Eaft-lndies) bouqd j
to Toulon, about two months ago, spoke an
American (hip near the latitude of Madeira,
from whom he received information of France
being at war with England, Spain and Hoi
land, but not with Portugal, in conlequence
of which, he pftt into Porto Santo, ore of the
Madeira': ; the Deputy Governor immediate
ly secured the (hip, and sent the Captain and
• 3 paffengersin a boat, to the Governoi at
Madeira, who treated thetn with civWity,
anil ai they teftificd warmly their disappro
bation of the present diftrafted state o) (he
F ench nation, admitted them to parole.—
Soldiers were immediately dispatched, and
503
f!*? day ; eh?«Mflvriwg Sea?* Waited, 'brangiit
Hv?br pi'tee 'tzlfe -Juto tiifr ca •«« «
rugar, C"ffce, itwfige, /)hi«iuo, intifliws and
• .*»*;M<£tt®H ch»i)r
. ftiid,|pMV*■ ~a& "
' itlie dfti#- Jse
«- ftnsut*r*iii> Hnwfriii '
>■ fth'prt^-xttiiei^
,fthe late lamented the IfepjJ'. _ .
{''• ifriday l»ft,ai<iy on board tlw ItrigAnw,
;Our|y»rd bonntffroirtthU ?p»rt to Jamaica,
his hand i# tljaxaUbiii,.
flotontw* tv '
!. tiur'y ,
»» r 'tfM P( • j
rlps^saisSTO^
One Neifen, » Br!till).
Und featured jit
f«f ent«fi,ng bti btfarda *4<it
' atSthat place with a F renetft (Jor^rtiin^ftnw'rt
Mftor find; fcfc*sirt
;' th F f«*tta»ng '
.._, to fiiftpg ont said [triv^ateer.
- !# °$* patyor-tfl*:
at Pl> moil thj in *
Wun>m,sJ' thi/
wto bv«mc>>ne of
?«j§tißHkrtNW*te. cotepan}
' j n ttfg <tefe«V Afeijftthr*. '
fHp^|'culatvof h;«npi*iqrv^|^n h Midi he
•..(ftWOS to. trie pirWjt—Cjbtivp..
: t¥fwwi'f l 'prtWfati7ili,' tte+ fie-,
" toCtfiiim^
I.m? the
Unttef. Stjgpf, on tbPAss
.' ujt; «H AnVt-ieaK .ItrtM'.
". ftSifn im"' Ajf ifty":
,- ♦j* ]"si puniJkmcitT of the Munlinn. of Levis It* "
. »Vl'"'. '_ . ''. '». ' Vi>£. Pupr, '
• (&■ 4 i~ r >*
fooecedi'igs of the Citizens of New-York, in re/a
, von to the National Ntut) a/ity.
' PKtfVHAPS no o>ciety ever manifefted a
score decided opinion inrefpcft to any dues
If on, than that exhibited yefierday in front ;
of Trinity Church, on rlie iubje<st of the Pre- i
fideut's Proclamation—Citizens of alf par- '
ries "twd efary- clafV were pfefent; their un- |
optv.npled unanimity it is hoped will difcou
\;age the few, the very few, turbulent men
sjmong us, and cannot fail to inftruCl foreign
ers, that however we may disagree in our Jo
rja) pofitics, we itand united and (irm, in our
ijecifion to maintain our neutrality, and to
iipport and defend the Perfident of the Uni
ted Static, in the free and uncjueftionable ex
tfrcife of the authorities committed to him
by our excellent conftituiion.
The meeting, not exceeded in number or
te'peftability On any former occiifioo, were
in a calm and manly speech, by Mr.
Troup, and the following resolutions were
and-unanimoufly adopted :
Nicholas Cruqer in the chair.
Resolved, That the late Proclamation of
the President of the United States, recom
mending a condntt friendly and impartial to
wards all the powers at war, was in our opi
nion a wife and well timed measure of his
adm'.niftration, and merits pur warmc ft: ap
probation.
Resolved, That in our opinion, the Gove
rnor ot this State is well entitled to the ac
knowledgments of his fellow citizens, for his
prompt and deeded support of the system of |
neutrality and peace, enjoined by the procla- !
illation'.
Resolved, That the interest and duty of all j
good citizens conspire to unite them on the
j>re!ent ac&afion, in supporting the in agift rates
tif our country, in their exertions to maintain
peace, and to avoid the calamities of war.
Refolved,*Ti>at while we cheerfully co.
omirrite in the fulfilment of the treaties of
United States, we will caufiotiflv avoid
| ev^.pjrmeafure, which may be liable to inter
rupt the neutrality and *ieace of our country.
: Reibived, That in our opinion, it is repug
nant't'd the laws of the land, and injurious to
the bfcft iivt&refts of our country, for any citi
zen to enter on board oi", or be concerned in
fitting out any privateer,or letter of marque,
to:ciuze agiinft any nation at peace with
the'e States }. aud til at the friends of order
and good government, are bound to discoun
tenance, and by all lawful means to prevent
the fame. :
Resolved, That the Chairman of this meet
in", be requeued to transmit copies of the
preceding resolutions, fjgned by him, to the
President oi the United States, and to the Go
vernor of this State, refpe&ively.
By order of the Meeting,
Nicholas Critger, Chairman.
Xcw-Yorky Augujt 8.
i ■*> *
; We are desired to inform tbe public, that
the rvjfe rtion i/j tj?e National Gazette of Sa- [
*u la(t-4-rliaf a copy right has Wen made
ot txe 'pamphlet containing the opinions of
f)-- fudges on the question refpefting theJu<t.
biiity of a State in the Papreine court of tlie
Phited States, by a citizen of another state,
is totally unibuiuled.-—Of the truth of this
any person may be fatisfied bv
Applying to Mr. Dobfon, the printer of said
I pamphlet.
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents* 18 2
per C'Tirt, 10/
Dfrrred, 10 9
full (hares Bink U. S. 4 p*-i cent. adv.
> it-
■ The <fyuer>*v v 'P , 't''jc te.tic ioni'i *tuiut
tlk* rf t;S(* jjeneral fenti
thek reinr-» v f to'fiijne points
;I'c: pnMk; H anqui-
SfiKty. 'the »)i Frieiijfs ojfliar
: Wony and WiMo|Ji'ar4 l /fe more thAti
'•/or Which
<»Icvjajes no .the piwnctpkis et'
"Jtbe ciclzFitt States. *.
. Thesis vfhlth fiJfitßUlWff it
has been? maturing- ha* tak«r. ddeper Toot
M »h% tMtc4
is elsep tH>! 'tt^i r,.j ndapclufoMk..
iwteres« <ii tbit«tywi»
.try tfjfh thai?!••l'iwivEdropeiirt (;overnnient<r*
, eitiartisj
'•iM ■ Mortal priip
; which is t f h« intfepejirffnce,'
"'iWilA be fuj>liiii' fnsaijrfefs of fpi
„ rjt, t th* never twßf/jl«(tend%n« Wip#rfonal
aiwj national ijnroin'petelicy
How little of* a national spirit «'o they pof
fefs, who are continually pouring out thel
abu'e again ft. other countries. The nationa
reflections which di'gracc many of the newl".
papers of this country, difCoverthe petulancc
of the writers, winch to be fnre i> of no im
portance in itleW"—buf so far as these reviier;
are fnppofeci to ("peak the general opinion, so
far their are a nuilance, and re
flect the highest uiV/a.e on our country.
What a Morions opjx>rtunity for a display
of m^rrkn^Kiou 1 ? <*ener off ty on the part ot the
Engliih, the late hci 'd .('teres of tie Cape
Have afforded.—ll;id the levejal Governors
of tb# IHands '.*iven orders that the privateer*,
ffcinald not add to fc'ae dr«aclful misfortunes of
the by foijfaiog t)Wf*» <>t wtm they
had saved from fire and fwoiii, if wo'n.d have
raised their characl evs fcs men to the pinra
i cle of him,an' excel!' We. and refitted unfa
ding glory on that ot the nation ; "There is
one door yet open to retrieve the nv flake—
apd that is t>y f(ftnpe!lti)g the robbers to re
fund their ill <m>uen gain-—~Thts the juliice
of the liiilifh natio-i Ibould be done-
th it tak* ndvar.tage ot (uch Hliflfor
tVipes. are as bad as th"e wretches ol Jamaica,
wlin plonce:ed wb, le the earth was quaking
and linking under them.
~S Hir'jVEWS.
ARRIVED at the POK Voj PHI LADEI. PHI A.
Mason, Oporto'
Mary &: fofeph, Sebafor, Cape Francois
Peggy, Darby, Martinique
Schr. Maria, Hll, Bolton
Industry, Lewi*, Aux Cayes
Sloop Confidence, D lano, peorgifc
Samuel, Sat te» Held, Chaitefton
tmmmimt nnmum ■■ »iim 11 i *■ imili.Wm »
Seat of War.
For Suit, at M. CAREY's Stun,
No. 118, Ma ket-ftreet,
A Sheet Map of the
French, Austrian and Dutch Netherlands, in
which the progress of the present War may
be traced. ft id three eighth > of a -doilur.
And a Map of the Three Northern Diiirifts
of France, divided into Departments.-—
Pi ict £ oj a dollar.
Maps of the United
States Any public spirited gentlemen, pof
felfed of material* fu r correcting and improv
ing the Maps of the several States, will lay
M.Carey under very particular obligations,
by commu'iricating them. He is in immediate
want of some for New Je r ley and Delaware ;
of wntch States he is now preparing Maps.
Guthrie's Geography:
The fubfeiiptiorvfor this wo k will be con
tinned open, at the prelen*- rate of twelve
dollars, till the fir ft dav of November next}
after which, it wili be railed to fourteen dol
lars.
Augvfl 14. \aw4w
Treasury Department,
10, 179 3-
NOTICE is hereby Riven, that Piopofals
will br received at the Office of the Se
cretary of the TVeafury, until the I4!h day
of S.-p'ember next ihciufivelVj to lurnifh by.
contrast the fallowing articles of Cloathing,
fur the nfe of the United Stales, viz.
4,800 Hats,
j, 123 Stocks,
5,123 Stock-Clasps,
33,483 Shifts,
5,123 Veflij
5,123 Coats,
9,633 Woollen Overalls^
9,633 Linen ditto,
19 233 pairs of Shoes,
9 630 pairs of Socks,
5,123 Blankets,
320 Caps, .
323 pairs of Leather Breeches,
640 pairs of Boots,
pairs of Spurs,
640 pairs of Stockings,
1,520 Rifle Shirts.
The tl oh tiling ti> be delivered at the cj\y
of Philadelphia ; one sou th pa* t of the whole
uumber of suits ou or before the 15th of Fe
bruary, one fourth on or Ik-fore the 15th of
April, and the remaining half on or before
the t sth of June, 1 794'
The articles must be agreeably to such pat
terns as shall be directed by t. e Secretary for
the Department of War. Payment will be
made as soon as the whole of the articles AuJl
• have been delivered*. eptl4i.
, •
•COMMt'NIt. VJ'WJiS.War Department,
INFORMATION' i. l*.«by «i»»n to >11 it
Miliary Inval ds ot ibe UiiiM $■ '' s, in*
(hc luott to wfticb ihev are tntitli d to 1 fix mnntt
of iheir proiVm, from liie 4 ; «> day tl
Mirch Idft, and which will become due oil ih
£tb of September nexf, wili be paid on Lhc fan
day by (He Coimiwlfioimi ot the wi h
in the States rcfpe6tively under the l»twl *egu
Jations.
By Command of the
President of the United Stated.
H. KNOX, fecref&y War.
N. B. The Printer* in ike reficftive States ar
requeued to pMolifk fht in ihcif heti fpaper s Jo
iheJp/ue oj two months.
American Stocks.
THE Ref>urc<s of »h<: United S ales of Ame
riea be-ng, in pioooiuon to their D bt,
probaWly fuperiot to thofc of anv European Go
vernment ; and they having made ample Piovi
fn>n for (he Payment of the Inter ell ot their
Stocks, only two A-retirements more fixm nc
refTary to make them a very eligible Property vo
in this Country ; viz.
lft. To make them transjerable in London ; and,
2d. To proride Means for paying tiie IvffTtjj or
Dividends. in London } puncJually on a certain Day
uilityt Expcvcc.
To accompli sb th< le two ObjffiSi the annexed
Declaration is and an Office is kept
nndrr the Diie&ion ot the Truftces, by M r -
Marl ia lu r<* conOant attendance :s
given, for the Purpose of receiving Stock, and
makmg Translers.
The Dividends will be received in America
by the Trillfetj
the LONDON and MIDD ESEX BANK,
Siraitord-i'lacyLondon; (as mruttoncd in the
DecUtationol the Tn»lU<.i,] oil the Fi»(? Days
ol January, Apiil,. July, ami Ofiober, without
jnv D duct I'>!t.
It is hoped th*t these will lender
naking Tiansfers and receiving as
:onvernent as at the B ink ot Lowland, or any
>ther Place. Persons who wifli to purchase
American Stock*, or to traufacl any other Bufi
kTs in them, by applying personally at rhe
Dfßce, or by Letter to Mr. Liaventtf4rth 9 will be
rarefully attended to.
Freeman's-Ciarf) Coinhi/f, May 16. 1793.
DECLARATION of TRUST.
WE, Gerard N oilEdw a rds, Samuel
Smith, George Templek, Nathaniel
Middleton, Richard John son, and Joh n
Wedgwood, Elqtnres, B.inkers :
At the Requril of sundry persons, have con
sented and agreed to hold in Trust for them and
others, for the Spacc of Twenty Years, such
American Stocks as they fhal', tiom Time to
Timr, transler to us. And (Security having
been given by us for the Purpof<] wc engage to
receive the Dividends, that may be paid in
America, on a!l such Stock as be so trans
fered to us in Trtift, and to pay the fame to the
several Propricio-s, at our Banking-H<>ufe, *in
Stratford-plare, London, Three Months after we
shall have received the fame in Amctica, at the
Rate of Four Shillings and Six-pence Sterling tor
each Dollar received, without any Dedu&ion.
FOl the Purpose ot Transtering ihe said Stock
to the Truftres and from Individuals to each
other, an Office is opened in FrcemanVCourf,
Coinhill. where regular Books are kept under
our fofpe&ion and Dire£tion. Wc farther de
clare that we will transfer to any Perfnn or
Persons his, her, or their, Stocks when required
so to do.
London, Afav i%th y 1793-
GERAR D NOEL EDWARDS.
SAMUEL StalTH.
GEORGE TEMPLER.
NATHANIEL MIDDLETON.
RICHARD JOHNSON.
JOHN WEDGWOOD.
RULES
To 3&e observed in tranfd&ing Business with the
Insurance Company
OF NORTH-AMERICA.
ift. A LL orders for Insurance rhiift be given
jfl in writing, signed by »be applicant ;
and as minute a description of ihc veffet is ex
pected, as the person ordering the insurance can
give. refpefHnj* her age, built, how found and
fittrd, and whether double or finglc decked.
2d. All policies will be ready tor delivery in
tweniy-four hours after the order for insurance
is accepted hi ihe office, and the policy muil be
taken tip in ten days.
3d. Notes, wit han approved endorfei, for aII
premiums, mud be given in len days, payable
as follows
For American and Weil-India nlqucs, in
liree n-onths alter the (lute of the policy.
For Euiopcan rifqu s; in fix moiuhs.
For India and China nfques, in t2 months.
Tor rifqurs by the year, in eight months.
For rifqucs for fix months, in fonr months.
And 'or rifqucs tor any lesser time, in three
mon' hs.
4th. LolTes will he paid in t(il days after proof
and adjuttment ; but if the note given for the
premium shall not have become due within that
jimc, the amount of it (hall, neveithelefs, be de
du&ed from the )ofs to be paid.
The Jnfuiauce Company of North-America j
hereby give no«ice to all whom it may concern, '
that, agreably to the abovr rules, they ave rcadv
to receivc all orders lor infurancc, which may
be addrfflVd to ihem, accompanied with direc
tion* to fume lefponfible house in Philadelphia
for the payment of the premiums within the
time limited.
In cafe the rifqucs offered shall be approved,
the insurance ihall be immediately c Eft fled ;
othcrwife notice lb*ll be given, cithei by anlwer
to the perlon applying, or to h;s agent, in Phila
delphia, as ma> be order<d.
Bv '">rder of the D"-"rflors,
E&ENEZER H
J u 'y a-
r ..
' ■ #£» i
sttej^>Mft^*Xfo T ''.. • - ,'#:
'afJ', '-r t cM mitt i; Grta/fpri-i
* ""'' ■ ° J ' > '"
jff* '•" - 4s&'*.'>' r>> 'p*iitV 'jf'trnlS.
hits ■*' ""% v '> "' •• > 3 "
-"O.*. ... '? ,■ " .. J. . 7
3 ii ; a »t .
4 '4 4 '4 '
i > 8 - J. 18
■ ' 6: si ?■ ■■/.,- 6 •»
,' •■» 9\ -• «5 »V .£ ~#> -
• • > d *9 , ;*•* .r*9
.-..? 9 33 ■£ '.i *f, 0 33
'. 'It ' *<►; ■■ > J& ; ' ~ «0 ,37
, ->< '4» . . •• 'fit 4° '
, ,-*« 44 ■* »•' 44
_ -Ja r «?>..' , f >>a ■<
r M- : s* -/ >4 vs :s*->
*4 *s *••' b»4.
' *5 ' , 6& - 18" s? 1 -
>7 • '1' *7. ' , * '6»
.'« ' ®-'< f*
'9 ®» ,: -3ft '„r,vfV ,
*0 .-.■*. 73 * >2d *'■ ?<f '•
»*,'/ W' 78 \
■'. ,-, »»■'• >v •.: Kt 81 ~••
*$ r *1 , 85
«4 B? 1 »4 89
*** TARI.ES for receiving and paxrng Cold
Coins, calculated by the Officers oj the Bank of the
United States -agreeulle to the uexv Law—from
which the Grain I ables above aye extracted - may b;
had at Benjamin Johnson's, Hxghjireet, neat
Fourth-jlreet.
v ADV E.R TUIMU T.s
v. ■. . ...
Nf.w-J*.**e y, ) T> Y virtue of. a Wiit to me
iuflcx County, ff. £ -&3 dirt6t-<l, -iff'iod out of
the High Court of Chancery of N-w-Jcrfey, at
the suit of William Shipley flgainft j'hn Ming
and others ; I fliall expose to laleai Public Ven
due, on the fix'.h day of F bruary n xt,, between
the hours of Twelve and Five m the Afternoon
of the fame day, on the Premiss, the following
de fen bed Tra£t of Land, wn h «tsappurtcnances,
fitnate in the Townlhipof Oxf'?'d and County
of SuffeXj beginning at a Chefriut Oak Tree, cor
ner of Daniel Cox's land, and (landing; in the
line of a foimer survey made to Thomas Steven
son, being marked with the letter B. and chenct
extending along Coxc's line (firft) foutn fitty de
grees wtft fifty-five chainsaud f« veniy-five links,
to a B!ack-Oak Tree corner of Joseph Sh: open's
land (second) south nine degrtts mi
nutes, weft ninety chains and fixty-five links to
a forked White-o*k Tree, tnailfrd with the let
ters R and B another ol the laid Shipptii's cor
ners (third) thence north eighty degrees, eaftone
hundred and forty-five chains, to a pofl on the
southerly fide of Paquaofte-H being also a
corner of John Reading's land (Jonah) thence
north thirty-nine degrees w> ft, one hundred
and thirty-two chains ta the place of beginning,
containing nine hundred and thirry acres wth
the usual allowance for roads and high ways—
The fame Premises are within eight miles of the
Rver Delaware, and there is thereon a conveni
ent Grift Mill with two pair of Stones—a Saw
Mill in good repair, with a fuflicient stream of
water for their use—a Dwelling House, Store
House, and fcveral small bnilrf n^s.
MARK THOMPSON, ShcrilF.
D-ited iid duy of ~}u!\ y 1793
City of Washington.
January 7 .h, 1793.
A NUMBER of Lots in this Cuy will De of
fered tor fair at au&:on, by the Commit 4
fion'ers, on rhje 17th Hay of September next.—
One fourth part of the purchase m<»ney is to hi
paid down, the residue at three equal annual pay
mcnts with yearly iatereft on the whole pri/ici
pal unpaid.
JOHN \I. GANTT. Clerk to the Cem'rs.
of an Ast of the General Aflembly o
Maryland, concerning the Territory of Co
'umbis, and the City ol Washington.
" it efj-a&ed, That any foreigner may h]
Iced or will, hereafter to le made, take and hold land*
within that part of the )aid Territory which lies with'
>.n this State, in the fame manner as if he xvas a.citt*
zen of th>s Stife ; and the fine lands may he con
veyed by aid tranfmitud to and he inherited b\
his heirs ot relations, at if he and they were citizens
of th?\ State ; Provided, That no joreigner fa/fy
; n virtue hereof\ he entitled to any futthei or other
Privilege of a citizen
t,: . ®
r
, S'c'.y.
4 W
Jan. 19.
504
0
INSURANCE COMPANY.
Pill LADhLI HI A, July kit, 179 |
N'OTI CE is hereby Riven «o the m. mbru ol |
(he InfivMicc Company ol K'outi Anicn- |
j a. t»at th«' Dir<.Ctois have declared a dtviidend
; ft., tins day) of fix percent on theamoum ot the
ft-ft inltalmcnt, and ot one per cent per month,
cni the sums paid towards she fcconri ami tiiit-d
; iuftalroems, calculating from 'he fit It day of
j the month following that in which these pay
j merit* were made. The Dividend will I>C paid
t«» the Stockholders or »heir Reprefcn*atives, at
the Company'a Office, (No. 119* '• Front
!strect) at any lime alter ihe 7th "»ft.
FBF.N EZER HAZARD, Sec'rv.
fi-T As th- members of this Ivivpuvy are much
tiirouohoui I' e United S, tales, the trruteri
f» toe Jeveral jtates are requeued to give the akuvc a
pjjee in their vewjpapers.
| " " ~ruß
M A T H E W CAREY,
At his Store, No. tiß. Market-llrtet,
Philadelphia,
r P I H.E AMERICAN MUSEUM, from its
X commencement in January, 1787, to iu
termination in D>cember, 1 792, in twelve vo
lumes, price, neatly hvond and nine
irfn dollars and one fihti.
The opinion of the President of the United
Stales, rrfpediing this work, is ?s follows :
" I believejhe American Museum has met
with extenflve. I may fay, with universal ap
probation Irom comprtent judges ; for I am o!
opinion, that the woik is not only eminently
calculated to diff< -inmate political, agricultural,
p'lilofophtcal, and other valuable infoimation ;
btr that it h s bet 1 \ uniformly condvfied u ithta(le>
attertwn, avdpropriety. If to thefc important
>b)rss be fuo radded the immediate de-
of rrfcuing public documtnts from obli
vion- I will venture to pronounce, as my fen
ti merit, that a mobe u.urui literary
PLAN HAS NEVER BEEN UNDERTAKEN IN
AM ER 1 CA, or one MORe deserving of pub
lic FCOU R Ac. £ M F N T " fooe^.
B v 7 h •b An jo ha. ;o a, Ijsj iJD
STUART, k DAM EL CARROLL,
Esquires,
Com m issio n f. R s appointed by Government to
ptiparc <he Public Buildings, &c. within the
Cilv of Wajhingtoiiy lor the reception oi Con
gress, and for iheir permanent rcfidcnte aitei
the ycirißoo—
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City.
;o t ooo Tickets at 7 dollars, are 330. 000 dollars.
LIST OF PRIZES, viz.
l Supci b Hotel, wnh baths,)
out houles, &c.&c. to colt ) 5°> co
1 Cash Prize 25,000
1 duto 2(>,0C0
ditf
1 ditto
2 ditto
10 diuo
<20 ditto
joo ditto
200 ditto
400 ditto
t.OOO ditto
15,000 ditto
5,000 are
1,000
500
100
5°
2 r>
20
10
33- '63 Blanks
50,000
By this scheme at leaji the amount of the tick
ets will return to the fortunate adventurers, and
vet tiie federal City will gain its ob}e£i thereby,
in a magnificent building defined both for pub. i
he and private convenience.
Although (ome expence must necellarily at
tend tnt conducting of the lottery, (which ex
oence will be taken Irom the principal prize] the
Cointniflinners having agreed to present in re
mrn a lufficient quantity of excellent frer-fione,
logtther with the best adapted lots for the hotel
and for the out-houfes, the value of the lottery
■ mire may be fairly rated at something mere than
par: In this important inlUnce it will be found,
on examination, to exceed ail the lotteries that
have ever been offered to the Public in this or
perhaps in anv other country. The keys of the 1
Hotel, when compleat, will be delivered to the ]
fortunate pofl". (Tor of the ticket drawn aagainft |
t(s number.— All the other prizes will be paid,
without one month after the drawing, by
the City Treasurer at Washington, or at fucn
Bank or B. nks as may be hereafter announced,
for the conveniency of the fortunate adventurers.
The drawing will commence on Monda'v the
6th of Septembei next, at the City of Wafhing
t on.
Tickets mav be had of Col. Win. City
Treasurer of Wafhmgton ; Thaxtf & B irtt'ei, of
Cbarlefton, South-Carolina; Gideon Denijon, Sa
vannah; McfTrs. Janus M'ejl 3 Co. JMnmore ;
Mr. Peter Gilman, Button j and at such other
places as will be hereafter published.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given for the bell Plan o! an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and cold
Baths, Srables, and other out houses, if presented
onor bejore the 1 Qth ef April next ; and a Die
ferencc will be giv n 10 the Arult lor a Con
tra£>, provided he be duly qualified to
compleat his plan. The ground on which
the HotcTand out houses are to be crc&ed, will
be a corner lot of about 90 by ado feet, with a
back avenue to thr ftibles, &c. Se&ions a«d
eflt mates of the expenie will be expcQed
with the elevations. See. compleat ; and 50,000
dollars mull be regarded by the Architect as the
utmost limit in the expense in'mdtd for this
purpose. S. BLODGET,
Agent for t-h4 affairs of the City.
March, 61703.
THE tJ)I T0 K
MOST earnsjit) ihcft'of lis dijlant Sat.
fcr'bers w ho are inutrrears for the Gazette, to make
payment as fion <tl poobh,—Tkofe per/tins vhc hale
receivedfuhjcripHon mency "on his account arc d,fired
to remit' thefamt. The arrearages the Gazette
have accumulate* t& a f-rious amomt— Sericur, as
they are the only rejburcc to difiharje vtn firtous
engagements imurted in the probation of thii er
fenjivepMitaiicn. Philadelphia, ]une 26.
TR F ASUft Y DEPAR rM t XT, J dne an, t7g6
NOTICE is hereby thai propeUU'wl!
tre rcct.rvc<l at the of (he .VcTctary of
the Tieafuiy, tmhl the fourteenth day of Sry
tember next tnclufivcly* for the supply of ail
Rations which may be required for the vie of
the United S'atcs, from the tirffc-day of January
to the ihirty.fii ft day of December 1794* bom
days inclusive, al the places, and wttiii-n the
di finds hereafter meu» toned, vjr
4. At any placcor places be» w.xt Y<»rk.-Towfi
and Carlifi ,in the ilate wf Penn4)iy niia, au<i
Pitilburgh.&jr Putfhur^h,Yo»k-N'wn&Carlifle.
9. At any place or places 'mm Pit:(bor£h-ta
tl»e mou'h of B:g u avttCrtck, and at the mou.h
of B'g Heaver Creek.
3. At any j»laie or places-si om fbe said mouth
to the upper falls of the laid Dig i». aver, «»t
the upper faHs.
4. At any place or plarfrs 'rofn the said UDpr*
falls to Mahoningj and at M'<>< tnng.
5. At any place or places from the said Ms
honing over to the Hea<£ Navigation of the river
Cavahoga, and at the said lirad Navigation.
6. At any place or places from the tard
Navigation to the mouth ol river Caya-
and at the said inouth. ,
7. At any placc or places betwixt the mouth
of the Big lieaver Cfecfcj to the mou:il of the
riv, j Mufkingutn, and up the said river to th?
Tufr.atowas, and at the Tufcarowas, and thencc
over to the Cavahoga t iver, and thencc down the
said river to its month.
8. At any place or places betwixt the rr.omh
of the river Mofkingiiui and the mouih of the
Scioto river, and at the mouth of the said nvcr
Scioto.
9 At any place or places betwixt the mouth
of SciotO river & the mouth of the Great Miami,
at ihe monfH of the Creat Miami, and bom
thence to the rapids or the falls of the Ohio, and
at the said rapids.
10. Ax any place or places betwixt tbe mouth
of the Great Miami, up the f.»id Miami to and
at Pique Town.
i l. At a* y place or place.? from Fort W<jfh«
ington to Fort Hamilfon, »t*d nt F<>rr H«irotlto*.
At any place or places from Fort Hamilton to
Fort Si. Clair, and at For t St. Clair.
12 At any place or"placcs Irom Fort St. Claif
to Fort JetFerfon, and at Foil Jcfterfon.
13. At any place or place* I torn FOll Jeff; rfon
to the field of action of the 4'h of November,
1791, and at the ("aid fiMd ot a«ton.
14. At any place or plaecs from the said field
of a&ion to the Miami Villages, and at th£
Miami Villages.
15. At any place or placcs from the said Mi
ami Villages to the fulls of live Miami tlvrr,
which empties into Lake Erie, and at the said
falls, and Irom thence to its mouift, and at its
mouth.
'' 16. At any plare or places from the mouth of
the said Miami river of Lake Erie to Sauduficy
Lake, and at Sandufky Lake.
17. At any place or places from the fair! San
dufky Lake, to ihe mouth of the river Cayahop,a.
18. At any pjace or places from ihe month ef
the said river Cayahoga to Prefque Isle, and at
Prcfque Isle.
19 At any place or places from Picfqtic Isle
to ihe flrcam running into Lake Erie from to
wards the Jadaghqur Lake, an 1 thence over to
and at the said Jadaghque Lake,and thcnce down
the Alleghany river to Fort Franklin.
20. At any place ot places from Prefque Isle
to Le Beuf, and ac Le Beuf
21. A' any place or pi ices from f.e Bcuf to
Fort Franklin, and at Fovi Franklin, and from
thence to Pi'.tfbtirgh.
22. Ar any place or places from the rapids of
the Ohio to the mouth of the W-bafii river, and
Vojn the mouth of rhefVid Wabalh river to the
m' Uth <\f the river Ohio.
23 At any place or places on the F.aft fide of
the riveT M ifTiffippi, from the mouth of the Ohi»
river, to the mouth o{ the Illinois river.
24. At any place or places from the month of
she ia d Waba fa river up to Fort Knox, and at
For t Knox.
15,000
10.000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10.000
lO,Go©
10,000
20.C00
150,000
> DolUii ss'>,Oo(>
25. At any place or traces from Fort Knox up
the f«»id Wabafh to Ouittanon, and at Oui tin non
-26. At any place or places from Ouittanon,
op (he said Wabafh, to the hVnd navigation of a
branch thereof called Little River, and at the
said head navigation of Little River.
27. At anv place or places trom the said h^ad.
navigation of Little River over to the Miami Vil
-28. At any place or the mouth of
the river TencflTee 10 Oceocbappq or Bea» Cretk f
on the said inclufivelv
29. At anv place or places from the mouth of
the river Cumberland to Naftwille, on the fa'.d
river, ajvd at Naftiville..
30 And at any place or places within thirty
miles ol said Nafhvilie to the Southward, West
ward or Northward thereof.
Should any rations be required at any places
or within other 4iftn6U, not fpecified in thde
proposals, the price of the fame to be. heieaftcr
agr' ed on betwixt the public and the contractor.
The rations to be supplied areloconfift of the
following articles, vi?.
One pound of bread or fl^ur,
One pound of beef, or a pound of porfy,
One quart of fait, }
Mwo quarts of vinegar, (
n . , t r > P er 100 rations.
i v/o pounds ot soap, r r
One pound of candles, )
The rations are to be fui nifhed in furh quanti
ties as thai there On* 11 at a',l times, during the said
trim, be fpfficicnt for the consumption of the
troops at each of the Cnd pbfls, for the space of at
least 3 months in advance, in pood and whole-,
some provisions, if the fame ftiaU be required.
In>ti> beundCi flood in vach cafevtbat aMoUri
sustained by tht depredations of the enemy, or by
means of the troops ol t-he United Statt s, shall be
paid lor at the puces of the ai tides capiuied or
destroyed, on .the depofittons of two or mote
creditable characters, and the ceriifirate of a
commiflioned officer, a.fcejtaining the circum
ftancesof rhe loss, „pd the amount of the articles
for which compensation is claimed.
The contract for the above supplies will fce
made cither for one var. or fur tu o,years, as may
| appear eligible. Peifom difppled to
j will therefore confine their offers to one, year, or
they -may make their .proportion* foas to admit
an el ftion ol the term oi two vears.
The offers mavcompnfe *W the plates which
have been fpecified, or a part of them only.