A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AMD SATURDAYS BY JOHN FF.NXO, No. 34, N-BTH Flfi'ii->> /Wk /PHILADhLVHI A
[No. 105 of Vol. IV.]
STATE of RHODE-INLAND PROVI- I
bENCE PLANTATIONS.
h Centra/ AIMly, Uty Scfpm, A. D. 1793. ■ '
RESOLVED, That aa At\ passed by this I
at theSeflion in May, A. D. 1791,
whereby Jab eb Bo we w, Esq. Commiilioner of
Loans, was requested not to loan any Notes oF a
Certain description, iffucd by the General Trea
surer of this State for Monies due to the Soldiers
of the late Army, in consequence of their having
been fraudulently obtained, and the said
miiTioner was further requested to retain said
Motes in his office until such future ordcrjlhould
be thereon made,ac might consist with the prin
ciples of just ice and equity, be, and the fame is
tiereby repealed, so far as regards the detention
those Notes.
It is further resolved, That the General Trea
urer advertise in all the newspapers in this state,
ind in the Gazette oj the United States, a defcrip
ion of the Notes thus fraudulently obtained,
urith a caution to all persons not to purchase
hem.
Lift of Notts obtained front the Treasury
Office by fraudulent Meafurts, to wit:
f hen delivered. To whom When Amount of
1790*
Sept.2s-Sharpo Champlin, vn demand, 41 1 (
Prince Cafe do. 1118
Stephen Charles do. go 9 i.<
John Brown do. 12 1
Caesar Cady do. 51 s Y
John Oke-y do. 4*3 I*9 1
Oft. 14. John Reed -do. 31 4 *
John Ho r fay do. «9 ©
William King do. 22 19
16. Prince Sayles 'do. 11 i 1
Bnftol Arnold do. . 38 -9 I
Cfcfar Rose do. 36 f2 '
Cudge Champlin do. 40 mt<
Ja<-k Greene do. 40 8 j
j'B. J°^ e ph Tanner do. .43 7 •!'<
Cato Vernon do. ;SfO 3 ,
Paniel Sharp? - do. jgp 1.1 <
Prince JRanddl ,1.1 ;
Joshua do. ,2.9 19 '
W'ltfam Negro do. .29 ,
23. Joseph HyJl do. 39 ,ijs <
Benjamin Sprague do. .10 <
Peter Harris do. 38 14 5
aB. Stephen Aldach do. .2a 14 c
William Mac Call do. 8 a
Piin6c Child's do. 27 12 4
Leiceftcr Wheeler do. 19 2 <■
Pat Harkmet do A 14 f
Abraham Smith do. 24 14 J
John Thomas do. 41 10 3
Jack Warden do. 31 t> 4
John fcriftol do. 33 18 11
Benjamin Reed do. 32 4 £
Cato Bannister do. 27 2 7
Nathaniel Widks do. 20 t
'Benoni Hathaway do. 3 6 17 ,5
do. 28 7 2
Joseph Merry do. 32 8 5
Peso Greene .do. 28 t6 9
Nov. 5. Benoni Hunt do. 40 c
-1,1. Cato Brown do. 37 7
Africa Bulk do. 27 2 g
Xondon Sloctvm do. 23 -8-u
Jack Minthorn do. 27 2 c,
-I®# TiVbet T. -HapJuns do. . 41.13 i
•*7, Jacob Ned do. 40 o ic
Boston Wilbour do. 42 7 10
Tony. Phillips do. £7 -3 c
JF.tfbraim Rogers do. (5 2 3
Robert Goreham do. 41 o.la
.24. Robert Howlaqd do. 39. 3 9
"Jamet Siogliioti ' do* .21 o
f JadiesCrofs do. 35 6
Cato Stafily do. 21 :o 10
John George - J do. *9 T 9 6
JobnTnndal do. 7j >2 2
Prinee'-Power • • 'do. 19 4 9
Benedict Asron dol 'fs' 10 8"
Oifcfar ,Bht Iden « -do. 12 1# y
r CasfafWofel ■ : do. *7 sty 9
Scipio' De W«lfe do. ,iq 14 10
priftol Luther. ♦ 18
John Huffey <lo; 2-8 it 5
Bfc. 2. Benjamin Swfcet do. 6 o e»
Silas Mawnry do. .28*1,9 4
John Willfon do. 9. o 4
6. Japes Mac Sjaarrow do. 28.16 3
J*. Caio Bourse do. 6. to. 2
Prime Gardner do. 711 3
Joseph Wifkirv <jo. 18.4 8
Corneliys. do. -»8, .."4 8
Pero.Finch do. .< 69 *7 6
Dublin Briggs do. \y 4 8
Bridget Srake do. 1916,11
Edward Eaflcrbrooks do. 10 1
Cuff Arnold do. 5 10' 3"
• Claike do. • ■ '•53'' I*6 ft
Jobn Mc Donnal do. ia*
13. George Robbina do. 21 011
snlifrMmis t>brito"dc** -25 19 2
Prime B rnwi) >d 0.,. 4HH7 V 1
Sofotnoi; .Mathews Jdo % .. .33 ft§
.TairkSiflbn v <Jo. , 7 8
,Nf do. 3.5 ,43 -7
Ebcnfze. Tacfar ' ; <Jo. \xJ6 ..8
John < 9 3
Reuben ' jjo" 23 .x>
Randal! . doC 1 ' 24 n ?
.Thomas Pur ' ' * 2-2. 11 *J5
Dr.i'Vpl v ll. mrnVjfi *" 1 29 O 5_
UiVhard Hopkirrs- % * • Jd'oT.* V'4s 3 : t>
f H v nVy*HaV_aYd J v do. ' "'3
1 •"ti'.Cblt ' do. q 4\i 1
Allen South With* »
Richard Allen do. 74 18 10
Sa* «R&*r, jt'SK 1, 1795.
/ J.
Dec. 23. Willtam Chadfey, on demand, *3 9°
Ichabod Sinunops do. 4 1 ,1
. John Brown do, >1 1.9 4
John Qavit do, 2o 16 4
Wiljiifrp Aqkman do. 42 18 p
Jack do. 7 10 4
Ciefar Gardner * dp. 8 j? 7
Toby Co ye* do. 7* 10
John VViilfpn dp. 63 16 5
25. John Gavet do. 6p 6 1
John Garrison <10. £7 li 3
IN OBEDIENCE to the afore recitecj Ast 9'f
the General A&mbly, I do hereby cawjiyo a-J 1
pprfops from receiving any of the aboyfrpen
tjoned Notes, >y»thpin the rtaoft plenary pro.pf
being made that they were obtained from the
office by genuine documents from the soldiers
who performed the service, to whom the balances
were found due, or from their legal representa
tives or attornie*.
HEIMtY SHERBURNE,
„ . „ : ■, ■PwfW»'* r - ;
Atwport, May *4. 1793. 'jjw
3VUS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
By Mathew Carey,
No. ivß, Marktt-Sttcel.
EM6EiLi«Hin u ith a MAP of ihe prefcnt
S £ A T OF W AR,
No. I,
OF A >N "E W
SYSTEM CF MODERN
GEOGRAPHY:
•O R, A
GEOGRAPHICAL, HISTORICA-L, AND
COMMERCIAi, 4RAMMA&.;
And ®»necfient State -of -the Severn!
KINGDOMS OF THE WORLD.
CONTAINING
1. The figures, motions, and distances of the
■phneis, wcr>r«Hng to rile 'Newtonian fj<lem
Mid,fhe : l»t(-It[Obferv«iioas. t
W. «A geoenl view of ihe ojrlh cortfid«r«d An »
pUiwt ; with fev«n| dc-
IWiirions-and <|>Fnhlams.
•HI. Sbe grand divihonj ntfithe globe iourlacil
»(m) water ,<co«tincnu tnd.iilandj.
IV. XHcfitivxion and extent of cmpii«9, kiing
domi.ftaM#, iP«ovi*ce», »ndcolopiti.
Y. Thfir clvrri«tff, jir, frtjt, Vegetable .(wpduc-,
fca», ,riw»„k*y,», ,ajid
i»k«.
.VI. TAe.biijMn/libcaAj coijn-
trV
VII. Observations on the changes tfyat have
been any where obCerved upon the fa«*e of
natureTince the moil early periods of history.
VIII. The Mftory and origin of nations ; their
form* of government, religion, laws, revenues,
taxes, naval and militaryftrengrh.
IX. The genius, manners, ctrftoms, and habits
of the people.
X. Their language, learning, arts, sciences,
manufactures, and-cemmerce.
XI. The chi£f-cities, ftruttures, ruins, and ar.
tfficial curirtfiues.
XII. The longitude, latitude, bearings,arrd dif
tanccs of . principal pjaces from Philadelphia.
TiO .WHVCH .ARE- ADD&D
I. A Geoc t I ndex, with the Names,
and places alphabetically ai ranged.
11. A T*b t/E of the Cot.ms of all Nations, and
their Value in-English Money.
111. A'C>i*o»ot.(jticAL:TA»'-* of rema/k
---. »Wc Svcats/Ireih'iKt Creation id thepteftnt
Tim<- j . -' V
< By WILLIAM GUTHRIE,.£fq.
The Ast«on<xmi,oal .Part by Jamss,*sr
, Q.IJiON, F. R. 3-
To cohick have been a/Jdgd,
The late Discovert bs of Dr. Herschel, and
othe? eminent Astronomers.
" TH E" FSRST , A M E R I Q A N» M> ITION, COR HE6T«
ED, IMPROV ED, A NO GREATLYENLARCED.
Tht pubUJher of this work, thankful) fir thepafron
age with,which he has Seen honored, J'ubmiu the
present number to tht infpeflton tfhis fc How-ci
tizens, and lays-before them
The te»ms.of publication ;
I. This geography lhall be publiihed in for
ty-eight weekly numbers* each containing twen
ty-four padres of.letter press,
11. In the counfe of publication will be idt
livefed the following maps :
i. The wo»ld. 2. Europe.. 3. Swedeo,
Denmark,' Noway, and Finland. ,4. Rutin.
Scotland. 6. England and Wales. 7. Ireland.
'•8 : France. 9. Seven United Province*. 10. Au-;
• llrian end Fieocb Netherlands. ft. Germany,
12. S'wiiierland. 13. Poland. 14 Spain and
Portugal. r,5. I+aly. 16. Turkey in Europe.,
17. Asia. 18. China. 19. Hindoftan 20. As
nca. 21. North-America. 22. British Ame-'
rica. 23. Wcft-Indiea. 24. Souih America.
. 25. Pla.nifphereof the <"»rth. *26. Countries
round the north pole. * 27. Dilcovencs made
by' Captains Cooke and Cleike. *28. New.
Hampfhue; * 29. MafT«chufetta. * 30. Con-'
'oe&icut. * 31. Rhode-1 Hand. * 32. Vermont.
*33. New, York. # 34. New-Jersey. *35.
PenafylvaQta aud Delaware. *36. Maryland.
** 37. Virginia* *38. North-Carolina. * 39.
South-£aro|ina. * 40. Georgia.; * 41. Tile
Spheie. * 42. The Copernican fyftcm.
N. B. All (he maps maiked with ftan are
417
ad ' . " this edition, exclusive of those in tfte
la# Lo©d on -edition. *
That no dif,appaii)tjncn.t arjfp ffarp sub
scribers >ybat the publiGier nciihcr
promise* nbr is able to perform, he giv.es Jihis
early and explicit notice, of some of the
States it will be impofliblp fpj him to gj.V£ mays
fplly accuratf, no late surveys having been made ;
and it is hardly nccefiary to obfave, that it falls
not within his plan to go to the exp- nfe ps fu»-
ypv 5. But ip every instance; he will ayail hirn-
nfatcrtals cftapt: And such cor
reftiops and additions.as his ptmoft exertions
can procure, fyiaU be. made.
111. The geography of the United States is un
dertaken ,by gentlemen ot literary abilities,
who have engaged to give a more full and fa.
tisfa£lory account of it than any ever publish
ed. It will exteod <o $£0 or go© pages, ?J
---ihough in .the $ri.ti(h edition, in
that of 1.79 c, it jmajtes only ?bpuj $0.
iV. Should th|£ work exceed forty-eight num
bers,-the .ftifplus wiH be delivered gratis to
the ftiWcrilxrs.
V. price of p\imber will bca quarter
dollja/, 10 be paidpn d'e;ltv,ery.
VI. Such (uWcr.ihcr,s a,sdo.not to receiye
the*rorJc in a*et«* psy thr.ee dr*l~
i+t the time pTTubfcrtbing.
Teleprinter, anxious to render .this ?s
petfe&asthe nature of it yt,ill .allow, most rar
neftJv requrfts, Inch gentle men, throughout
the United Stated, as have it io their power, will
furnifh him with documents for
pad errors in the geography of America, and
for fumiHiinfr a more complete system of geo
graphy than has yet appeared.
The title page, lift of fubferiber's names, w»th
the account of the Newtonian -fv-ftein, &c. «Scc.
will be given in the 4.7 th and numbers'
N. B. The fubferffcers, •and the public in ge
neral are requested to consider the following ve
ry material 'London qaai;to
edition is-fold here, fonfifteen *lollais,..althoLLgh
it contains-only 2^ -maps and plates, and of the
Geography .of the United .Slates, ashasibe.cn qb
ferved.above, only .about go .pages—;whqr,e/»s,
Cacry's edition will contain 42 rpapsand plates,
and Have twp:hu.ndred pagespf letter press rnqre.
And it,need iv)t,be nbferved, that.thedevtnmen
bc p.f importance jto
Americans h> far, than,the 2j5 Loj>d,9p
, TJie obferv,ation vyill eqqal force to
the Jet^erpieCs additions.
The n.ap3 be /uch order of
fuccefli<?n as tljev are and dire&ions
.will Re printed for the proper tpanncf of pla
cing them by the bookbinder.
Ma v 1 8
G£ N 6RA L POST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia, May 27, 1-79%.
400 Dollars Reward.
WHEJIEAS a certain THQMAS SLOiS
GAN'T'T, .has 'lately made ,his escape
from BMljmore CountyGapl, to which.he was
com mitt fid. under,a charge ps having.robbed the
Eufterp Mail, on the 2&h day of J%fl :
.Noticq js beifffcv given, thjn a reward of Jive
•hundred d/t>Jlars wil! be at thiSjOffice, to
,any person pr pertons who fhajl. apprehend-the
Jaid Thomas S/q/'s C«^/ r and.deljver him i,nt,o,.the
peeper of the fa id Gapl,,,pr into
thecuftody of other of the Marshals within the
, Upi'c.d Spates, so that the fa id Thomas S/flfs, Gantt
mpyjfe effr£tu?Uy. apd forth coming to i
answer the above mentioned chaige.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
PoJl-S/taJier General.
The following is a description of the above- ,
named Thomas Sloss Gantt : He is about
fix feet high, ftrnit and well made, has light co
loured h2ir, tied behind, fair complexion and
has a dewn look when spoken to.
Albany Glafs-Houfe.
*The proprietors of the Glafs-M<inulaclory, uoder
tbe Firm of
M'CLALLEN, M'GREGOR and Co.'
BEG leave to informthe nublic, that they have
now brought their* WIN DQ.W*GL4SS jo
perfection, « s will be found, 011 comparison,
to be equal, in quality, to the bed London
Crown Giafs.
Having fixedtbMr pniersai « lower |
imptrrtdGlafs, they ire induced la believe, ,that !
in)poruuaiitof thtt article will be.di(connDyed,'
in proportion at (Heir works are exiended.4- '
They propose.to enbirge the fjale of this bup.
«efj, and as the fucccti of it.will-dfp#«d,.on ike 1
patriotic support of the public, t)ify beg >c*vc |o -
fplioit their fnfridly .patronage in.lbe ps •
a bi.s'nch will iixereft every ps '.
Ay tn: M*N»'acto«[S.
/Ul.otiierfcfojr.WmjM>w..Gj r ASs,fl£ anyfize,.
W(li.bc,rctrived at the Store of Rhoocs arid
Mac&kkpi, No. 234, Qticen.flrcei,, New-
York, and at the GIA "Wa'ehoufe, No. 48,
Market-street, Albany, which will be punctually
attended in.
WANTED, fix smart active LADS, not
exceeding 16 vears of age, In be indented as
Appieoticej. and regularly inftru&ed in the
various branches of Glass-Making.
A Ho, three Window-Glass Makers, to whom
great encouragement will be given.
HUy I, 1793,
rICK E T &
In (he FEDERAL CITY lOTTKRY,
May bt bid at SAMUEL COOPER** Ferry.
[Whole No. 427.]
« » "t- ■ .
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Monday, April j.
minifttr of the marine gave the ac- 1
.count of the meafuies vyhich haiJbeerT
taksn foi the defeuct of tfr? coalls ofljie
insurgent department3-*-7 , ht''e W'Sre fit
that moment cruizing o« the coalls of
tjie departments of Vendee, and the Low
er Loire, fight frigate? from 36 to
guns with eight fmalier vcffejs.
The commissioners from Lille,
ter dated the 27th of March, gave an ac
count that the city of Bruges had driven
oi>t jts garriftyi, and put aw pn
tlie magaziues* They required .tji? ge
nerals to fend to Brugts a conGdeiable
forcf.
M fir a t dciioiir.cej the t,hree hujidrfed
deputies who .had joined in fyrm a com
mittee of public faficty ?s conspirators,
who were entirely under the influence of
Brifibt, Goadet, and Vernio.
L.ft Sjpprce that Ma,rat wns
ainpoftcr.
Cambaceres, in 4he of the com
mittee of public fafety, read a letter of
Dumoutier to the National Convention
q) the ; I2;th, find pnqthqr of tjie jfc&lh of
March, addrefled to Bournwnvijle, ,in
which he gave an account of the retreat
qf the body of tlve army tinder the com-
qf generals fJeujily and Ferrand,
who, by 'the delertion of a gfiat number
of volunteers, were .obliged to evacuate
the city of Mo'ns, duiing the night of the
capitulation of general Maraffe, military
co(t>uii»r)der,<)f risers, by .that ryt
thod, .though .xipt .the .ipqH
yet indifpeiffibly necefTaty,faved a ibody
of 10,000 men. He added, that cor
nels St. Clair and Thouvenpt were at
tracted without meflfis of defence —ftiac
our inilitar,y ,ca)ivoy.3 were detained at
Bruges—that he has sent forces in order
to liberate those convoys ; that he has
gjve,n orders to.gatpfon St. Omer, Cam
:brai,. and all the, places ~on the line from
Dunkirk to Divot, lu these letters Du
mourier defcribcs the army as in a (lare of
,the greatell difpider, and not haying pro
.vilipos for jivorc than ten days : He fays
that, the pretended succours of rae,n .from
the departments of the Noith confiit only
of old trjen and children, who, so far from
b?ijjg.ufeful, ferye only to incjeafe the
cpnfufion ajid consume theproyiiions. He
declares, that if order.and discipline be
not reftoted—that if fifty authorities,
Cficji, ijnore.abfurd th?n. the other, conti
nue to direct all, political and military o»
peiatioos, Fiance is loll; he decjajes,
that he, with a small number of bcave
men, would bury themselves under the
: their.rountry. He affirms, that
,it is imp>jflihle for him to .(top the. pro.
gref&ofthe enemy «yho, without amunng
themselves with siege«, may, with an ar
my of cavalry, lay waste and re
duce to afhei all that part of the couptiy
which is in the neighbourhood of
Dumourier concludes this melancholy
state of the representation of affairs with
bellowing eulogiums on the clemency and
modei atipn of thi Auftrians which were
ntitledto the .more praise, as from the
example of cruelty and outrage which the
French had exhibited, a very different
( cond.uft, on their part might have been
expe&ed. I fays he, have always affirm
ed, and I repeat, that a republic can on
ly be founded on virtue, and that free
dom can be maintained only by ord ve and
wisdom.
Cambaceres, after having read these
letters of L>umouritr, gave an account of
the proceedings of the commjffioners of
the executive power. Arrived at Valen
ciennes, they learned that general Du
mourier was at Touroav. Thej repair,
ed thither, and found him with Madame
Sillery, with Pamela, Egalite. and.'Va
lence.—He was surrounded with deputa
tions from the diftrift of Catnbiai. The
Cpi2W
-c
A
rin> ■%<, . frt t
, i V '
in a let-Foreign Intelligence.
LONDON, April 8.
Connttr-fievolution in Ftance.
WE art b*M>y '» being able to
the imvwrtant inrelHprrce which we
comnionicated to the public on Saturday, is
confirmed bjr miweious ditjwtcties since re-
ceived. _ , _
The accounts of the different defeats ex
perienccc! hy the French army, which reached
Paris aUnolt daily, produced the niott general
cooft■»i nation among all ranks of peopte. A
niong'the meih&ers of the Convention in par
ticular, tlx? alarm was very great. Dittirent
members denounced Gen. Dumourier as a
bale traitor, wbo, preferring gold to the ove
of his country, had received bribes from their
enemies : as an ambitious villain who, under
the malk of patiiotifni, had u'ed every arti
fice to attach the army to himfelf, to leduce
the soldiers of the Republic iiom the duty
they owed to their country ; and to deltroy
thole in battle, whom he could not corrupt by
Different letters from Gen. Dumourier, and
coiivtrfati ms which he bad held with the
Conimiffioners in Belgium, » which he pla n
|y toid them the prefentform of government
could not lie maintained, were produced in
support of ttorfe cha'ges, in which it was al
leged he offered the grafcft insult to the Coo
v-ntion, the Reprefentntives and defenders of
the f»verei»ntv of the People, by taking upon
him the office of Lsgillatnr ; dictating to then!
the eondaft tbay (hould follow ; cenlurmg the
laws which they had palled, in the name of
t ,e sovereign people, particularly the Decree
of the I Jth December, attd subsequent laws
r.-fpe&ing the organization of government in
. those countries, which tad been freed from
the yoke of tyrants, and restored to tbeir
Rights as Men ; and stigmatizing the mem
be- S of the Convention who had been sent by
them, and acted by theirauthority in Belgium,
■ as thieves and robbers— thereby imprefling
the people among whom they were, with sen
timents refpefting the views and motives of
the Convention very foreign to those by which
thev were actuated.
The disasters which had befallen the French
army, the cau'.es which operated to give the
enemy the advantage, and the dismission of
the Sans Culottes, whom they ftiled Patriots,
whom Dumourier could not corrupt, and had
therefore disbanded, were all urged as proofs
of his guilt.
Dumourier, in the mean time, had arrang
ed matters with fume of his officers, and car
ried his army liack into France, " ,^ iere be
soon received intimation from his friends of
the plots la d to ruin him. A decree ordering
biin to appear at the bar, was carried against
hiin in the Convention, and Beurnanville,
'with five of its members, accompanied by a
fecretai y, were ordered to bring huD apriion.
er to Paris.
' Of this he was informed before the Com
niiflioners reached his army, and took mea
sures accordingly.
It was the opinion of his friends, that, even
independently of the intelligence he had re
ceived, the Convention, as a body, had Ihewn
an imbecility and weakness, on alnioll every
' occasion, that proved them altogether unqua
lified to legislate for Fiance, which they had
brought to the brink of deftruftion —It was
agreed that means (hould be followed, to im
press the army with proper fentSmenti re
fpefting the conduct of the Convention, in
numerous instances, ard particularly towards
their General, who had fiiared every danger |
with them, whose valour they had all witnelf
ed, and whose good conduit alone had pre
served them from entire deftrufHon, and en
abled them to make a good retreat from a
country which had received tbein as friends
and brothers, but which had become their
enemy by the unjust exaftioni levied by older
of the Convention, and the conftiaints pi}t up
on their ft eed<>m,afrer the honor of the French
Nation had been pledged that tltey should he
Jest at free liberty to chafe their own form
of government.
The army, by the readiness with which
they agreed to support their General, (hewed,
that before it was proposed, they were, al
most to a man, inclined to put an end to the
tyranny of the Convention. Want of indi
vidual confidence alone had prevented them
from proclaiming their sentiments to each o
tlier before.
We have not room to give a long detail of
the subsequent business. Suffice it for the pe
fent to slate, that the general voice was for
refforing, with a few modifications the Con
stitution decreed bv the firft: or Constituent
Assembly, viz. a limited Monarchy. It is
even believed, that fomeof the Commissioners
themlelves approved of the measure.
When the Coniniiifioners, en the fiift of
April, reached the Army, they were put un
der arrest, and f S nt next day with an escort
to the Anftrian ai my, as prifonersof war, and
hostages for the fafety of the Royal Family.
In the letter which Djimourier sent with
them to Gene al Clairfayt, he calls the Dau
phin the young King, and offers some of the
frontier towns as a fecunry that he wouid
perform the promi ( e he had made, to over
throw the Convention, and restore a Mo
narchical Government—The Commissioners
are now fafely lodged in the Citadel of An
twerp.
The French army has mounted the White
Cockade, and dispatches from the Duke of
York, and Sir James Murray, confirm the
intelligence that Dumourier has set out for
Paris.
A fnfpenfion of hostilities between the Au
ftriaD and French armies has taken place.
United States.
ALBANY, May
The spirited and enterpnfing. Mahlon Tay
lor, El'q. of Troy, has formed a CAN AL from
the North-river to his new few-mill, riling ot
a quarter of a mile in length, with
This undertaking he commenced, prosecuted
and completed, contrary to the advice of his
friends, who joined in the public opinon, that
the project was visionary, would cost a very
large sum of money, and never answer the
purpose intended.—-Bwt mark the sequel—
the canal is completed, with much lei's ex
pence than calculated, and in fcaHutto©*
allotted—the most fangnine expeftat'on* <r
the projector and propriety are realized—ai d
it is beheld with admiration.—
are, with the greatest ea'e, Conveyed from
the river to the mill in a day,by two handst
and we are allured bv Mr. T;vyl° r that, for
the expence it has cost him, he would not be
without it one fcafon.
It gives ns the moll (in'gqfar plea Pure to ob
serve, the great number rff rprichtly robust
young men, who daily arrive in this city, and
immediately file off to join the liferent canal
companies, which have already commenced
bufinels, with every appearance that the most
promiling success will attend this noble 'un
dertaking.
Extraff of a letter from thl Prtfdent <f the No,th.
cm Inland Lock-Navigatiov % to Barent Mucker,
Esq. udied at on Saturday lajl\
44 The carpenters and labourers are alrea
dy in good and comfortable barracks—behave
well, and I believe will foonbecome expert in
the W'-rk assigned them. Difficulties are dai
ly vanishing, and I art very sure that the es
timate in the report of thelaft year's com
mittee, for completing the canal from• Still
water toWaterford, will be amply efficient
for the purpose ; a:Vd that the work will pro
gress with celerity, if the number of men
we relied upon arrive. We have now about
130 here, and lam just advised, tlr.it two
companies will arrive today; and when peo
ple fee that the men are regularly paid, com
fortably lodged, well supplied and well-treat
ed, I doubt not but very considerable numbers
will from time to time reiniorce us.'
WINDHAM, (Con.) May 18.
Mr. John Fuller, of Wilmington, has this
present season, begun, and completed the set
ting out of 1200 rock or sugar maples on his
farm, at the dittance of 15 leet from tree to
tree, all in handsome order, and on a moist
fide-hill. Should this latidable example be
followed by the farmers in general through
out this State, no doubt we may in a (hort
time, be able to bid defiance to the Weft-
India planters to extort either money or pro
visions from us for their sugars. .
Mr. Fuller, for the small Cum of 365. lias an
insurance of all the above mentifmejjj trees 5
and tbofe that may happen to die, are to be
replaced from time to time, till thertf (hall be
1200 living trees (landing and growing on his
farm.
STOCKB RIDGE, May 21. ■ r
In whatever society the citizens of all de
scriptions are secured against puniihment lo
long as they remain innocent —where ample
redress is provided for every injury wire re
no man, however diftmguilh«d by or
fortune, can oppress his neighbor, or violate
the laws with impunity, and where the go
vernment keeps good faith with all its citi
zens ; the political institutions of that ooun
try arrived at the point of perfection.
Think of this Americans I Be grateful tor
your lot, and transmit to pottenty the glo
rious inheritance you have purcjhafed tor
them
While war, tyranny, oppreflion, pr anar
cliy, are desolating or afflicting evqry Civil
ized country excepting America ; we by the
beneficence of a gracious Proyidence, are in
the possession of peace, plenty,Ropd,govern
ment, and all the freedom which can be en.
joyed confident with that proteflion and se
curity which are the mod beneficial purposes
of political aflociation. Every generous mind,
that wishes these bletrings may be perpetua
ted ; that liberty may be defended by govern
ment, and government supported on princi
ples of liberty, will chearfully contribute to
the means of education. It is a truth which
ought to be deeply impressed on every Ame
rican mind, that rational freedom can [tcrtrely
rejt en no foundation, jut virtue and intelligence.
PROVIDENCE, May 18.
Thomas Moore, E!quire,his Britanhic Ma
jesty's Consul for this State, with his lady and
daughter, arrived here on Monday evening
last, and on Tuesday proceeded to Newport.
BALTIMORE, May 23,
Sunday evening last arrived here the schoo
ner Sans Cu'otte, (a French privateer) com
manded by J. B. A. Ferey, who left Charfef
ton the 25th of"April, and on the 29th "tfook
the schooner Eunice, of New-Providence bound
to Philadelphia—Qn the Jth of Mky'chjifed a
Bermudian (loop 011 fiiore, on Currituck bcach
On the 6th took the brig Fanny, of London,
from Jamaica, and Tent her to Philadelphia ;
the fame day, in the afternoon, totrk the
schooner John, of New Providence, Capt. Ri
chardson—On the ijth took the (loop Spry,
Capt. Brown, from Norfolk, bound to New-
Providence ; and 011 the 2ad, in the morning,
fpicd 4 English vellels, the Jofgph, Fanny,
Hero, and u barque, about 20 leagues off our
Capes, and about 11, A. M. came up with
them, when an engagement ensued, the Sans
Culatte being in the midst. during which the
Joseph (being to windward) hove her- inain
top-i'ail to the mad, and got all her guns to
bear upon the SansOulottc, v.itb an intention
418
to discharge »r,d "in V.«r down. After an en
gagement ot'five rbr.es, the Jo'ep o - PP 1
dore, from NorMk bound to Cs-d.z, loaded
with wheat, (truck, which they brought with
them into this port. The Captain of the W- !
feph, during the engagement, loft both of u
hands, and a hall went through the th.ck part
of'his right thigh. The mate also was wound
ed in the hand. During t!*e engagement a
(quail came on, which obliged the Sans Uu
lotte to leave tiie Fanny, Hero, and the barque,
to take care rtt'her prize ; and on finding the
Captain dangerously wounded, afhiated by
princidles of humanity, gave him every as
sistance in their ptfwer. Tlie Sans Ciilotte
had bur 20 men, including officers, on board,
when (he took the Joseph, three ot whom
were wounded.
On Saturday latt arrived here the Martha
j and Mary, Captain Tobios Stanfbury, from
I St. Euftatia, by whom we Iparn, that at Mar
tinique, a party of planters had armed their
negroes, and were determined to oppose Gen.
Rochambeau, who was in pofleflion of all the
fcirts and the town of Pierre ; Rochambeau
was to march against the planters after Capt.
Stanfbury left St- Euftatia. Guadaloupe was
strongly fortified, and General Colot was well
equipped, and determined to make vigorous
refinance against the enemies ot the French
Republic, ftiould they attack it.
The duties on American vefTels were low
ered J per cent, import, and I per cent, ex-
every encouragement given Ame
rican yeflels to bring produce.
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
ON FOREIGN LOANS.
SOME over refining per Cons cenfnre the
government for borrowing money in fo
reign countries. They admit that there :s a
lar,te saving by getting it at a very low inter
est—'but they diilike the fending money out
of the country to pay the principal and in
tereft—lf the rate of interest is high ir. this
country, it Ihould be noticed that we have
the capital borrowed abroad to be employed
at a better rate in trade or manufactures than
the interest it bears.
But the tell of the objection toJortign loans
will be, to suppose the loans made in this coun
try. R.eilrain the government by law to bor
rowing in America —what is the consequence ?
Firfl, you throw the government into the
bands of the money-holderr, and as the law
removes all rivals, they will have the pluck
ing of the treasury entirely to themselves.
Ha 4 such a scheme been proposed, we should
have heard an uncommon peal rung about
speculators, and jobs, and favni itifin. Em in
the next point, the mifchicf of confining go
vernment to domcftic loans would injure the
merchants, manufacturers and farmers. For
this violent drawing of the nionied capital to
the treasury to lend it to government, would
drain the channels which it filled before. In
stead us buying land, improving farms, dyking
and draimog marshes, making canals and
roads, engaging in manufactures and trading
enterprizes, the means of giving fuccefj to
these will be eogroffed by the government
loans. It is not denied that this country,com
pared with England and Holland, is deficient
in monied capital—lf the government will
not give better terms than a man can make
by his own management of his capital, he will
refine to lend—and if the government ftiould
comply with the terms, it is plain that he
will give up other less profitabl# employment
of his money to lend it. Foreign loans are
therefore forced upon almost every govern
ment itherwife the people would fuffer a
loss in the rate of interest—greater taxes to
pay the iiicreafed interest—and a disturbance
in the value of money, which ought to be the
standard to mealure all other articles b> —a
finking of the price'of land, and a furpenfion
of enterprize and employment, which would
on fair computation make a coiifiderable loan
negotiated in our own country, twice as bur
densome, and in fa ft twice as great a drain
on the wealth of the people as an Amsterdam
or Antwerp loan.—However it may be seen
proper to attack the wisdom and purity of
the conduct of government, the publifc will
not be at a loss to decide that its interests
have been faithfully provided for in the cafe
alluded to. B.
Philadelphia, June 1.
A Paris paper, entitled, " Le MoniteUt Uni
of the second of April, minums the
pVocefs verbal of the conferences of the ctfl
commiffioneis with Gen. Dumouriei,as ftatcd
in fubitance in the last page of this paper.—
Thrfe commifCf-ners were Citizens Proly, Pe
rtyra, and Dubuijjon. It does not appear that
they were specially deputed, but had been (onfe
iime previous to the inieiview, with the army.
Generals Valence, Montjoye, and Bgahte, were
present ; and it appears from the detail, that
while Pioly was particularly engaged with Du
mourier, the two oil) is entered into cnnverla
tion with Valence and MnHlOyc. These spoke
with great Vehemence againlt the ievolluion->ty
tribunal fthey f»id ihat the Conuention had no
right lo compel them to obey laws ,to which
they had not confenied.
Last Tuesday arrived at New-York the ship
Hunter, Capt. Olmftead, in 5 months from
Canton. It is said that boo tmi» of tins (hip's
cargo is of lugar, the reft ol teas, nankeens, See.
Capt. Potter, arrived at New-York the 18 h
ult. from St. Kitts, informs, ihat he fpbke an
English and a privateer hri|>, who informed
hi in, that Martinico was taken by the Brjtifh.
Jofiah 0- Hoffman, John D. Wil
liam Wilcacks, Jaave- "Wat Ton, Richard Ftir
man, Jotham P<?ft, »nd Robert Boyd, are
eleded Representatives in the State Legiiltu
ture fix the city and county at New-York.
Caprain Pitc', maflcf of tl'f
velTei, tilt Amiable, on a late rccafinr. !hr»--
ed the kiudeft attention to rhi crew <.t' n
French flrip. on the poiwr of pcrHhing, and
preserved fro in ikltruAiona i lumber «f cit:-
jens, of which Ae Ptench public fluids in
need more than ever, enemies have
increpfed upon her from every quarter.
This generous action was long unknown
to the representatives of the" nation, who are
nevertheless at all times attentive to t!*e re
ward of virtue ; the Convention has there
fore pafled a decree, changing Citizen G*> :t,
minister of the French repuW oto the United
States, to return thank*, in-tl\e r.iune f 'f t' e
French nation to Captain Pans :■■ hi* c r ew #
for the generous attention lhewn to the'e
French citizens. Tit- fvtisfl&ioir :i cry tvm-'
feel in having saved t}ie liwefbf the r e unfor
tunate men, in the lait of extremity«•*>
tress, cannot be otherwise than highly in
crealed, ivlieii they come to be itijuainred
with the sentiments of the Frenc* nation on
the fubjelt.
Citizen Genet, heirie ignorant of' the piste
of Ciptain Paul's rtfideorv, take* flits me
thod, of a pub!it newfpa)>er. to usqueft inJWr.
illation of the fame, that it may he in his pow
er to di(charge the agrreaWe duty ailigned
him by a decree of the National Convention.
["< apt. Paul is arrived in this fort jfn<c eut' l rrieit±
ing the ab<nx."\ Nat. Gu,
Late accounts from Europe fjjeak confidently
of pcace.
txtraf! of a tttttr Jrw Mmnbuti.
" The general feoiimeni excited her? by tt*
events in Europe, I believe 1" be in fa+os of
neutrality at qualified by irei'v. The IW «f
the Ftervch cJufe, and tbe.wifh for t.Hfv WVa
in the eftabliftimcitt of thrir republli, vWicllftt
fmcert, do by no meant hlind the (0
the charms and 'he prufiu immediate". Uklti
mote of neutrality. '« ■ . . ; ?i .
«' Thi» fo't of loving is prefty" jj« f>rt
: Which "> Hfl «fa«
in good wid-.w, when to ast Would ease
and f»fety
f Should pirty samci hawt»er <r*si»eiifffn
nm>, * fevet.Bfay l>« niM, *hict» unigtu not
farm »< in us ejf.fli, It ii therefore
of t« fto ' >»' wide of old'anupi^.
tiet in. n>otfcn> drcf* as pofliblr/' •
Extraß tf a UtUt frr* » ginttma* ti Ptlf'were,
■ . /• i < A j/„ -i-".
Jattdlhr 6'h Inji. to 4gtnli'P>"« it> th'> city
<«. I arrived here after a pa'lage of 14
ram St. tuftatia. To'oago fcas taken by the
Bngliffi when their fleet arrived ; ii was ex
pected they would attack Mfirtinieo and
Guadatoupe, and I believe those Iflaiul". are
now in .tiieir pofTeffion. There may -now lie
less disorder and blood (hed—ri'or, during the
four months I spent Hit**; I was to
very cruel scenes. I am g ,ad l»Jav ftotn
them ; 110 other person conld obtain a trttigw
to leave the islands at that crit.cal moment.'
Extrafl of a lifter from to/ton, intri 793
♦» we are ("0 absorbed tn politic* here, [ha
one can fcarcelv snatch an instant to light th>
torch at the altar offriendfhip —Our old reft
less demagogues, who wifli to keep the worl'
forever in boiling water, but who do no
much with by the way_to be in danger of fcaW
ing, are continually the old tune
as if the fieeft people upon ea: th were in
coiifpiracy against their own liberty.—T hel
men pretend to be friends to peace and nei
traliry, but are clamorous tor mcafures whic
would plunge us in war—But all iieariy roe
oppose them. For my p*vt, I reijieft tt
principles of the French revolution—they ar
rooted in the good of mankind, ?nii N V»1I,
properly cultivated bring fosth much fruit
but the conduct of their present rulers is d.
gradingly erroneous—they have in ijiy opinio
swerved from all and every of their fundi
mental maxims, as exprefled in their old, ar
even the new bill of rights —But whatever tl
ifTue may be, as refpefts their prelent lyiten
the sober sense of frame must be gainers,
our demoncrats are in favor ol plunging us
a war on account of France, of courie t (
are opposed to Britain—Here 1 difagrce wi
them alfh—lt is my opU.io»'tint, ui a »e
years Great-Britain will be the farm f"c>
and ally of the United States.
already experienced our valour, and t ey r
fpeft us as a nation—\V'e are united y »
ffuage, by policy, by habits, hy religion ai
conTanguinity—and a union thus, origina
cemented must, notwithstanding it may
broken, like the oarts of the adder, conts
and re-unite—lt is /aid that when fnen
fall out, it serves to ttrengtheii friendlhip
may be applied as Well to political as ton®
ral friends, and when the heat ot the our
controversy is abated and over, and t e p
judice of ignorant or narrow minds is e
away, we Ihall, each one, fee its lnterett
the alliance—l have pre<Ji<Tted—but tn
must be the interpreter.
44 As to the opinion now propagat ,
no good purpose I fear, that the ' IG " r V"'
this country arc involved in theiffueo
pean quarrels, it appears to me monstrous.
ablurd—there i» nothing plainer than v
that it is and must be for the interelt 0
the powers qf the eastern hemisphere, w •
free or despotic, to cultivate a
(landing with the United States o. t m
Ki kcstoa (JanuJf?) Ap"' l
The five French paffeiigers that arrive
the schooner Elperance, 00. Mon<*»T
surrendered themfirlvei on board tbefl g
and report themfeVves to 1 be ? ??'(•.,
Capt. general and commander in.£tn
national guard nt Vart-aOi-PrHWi rw f >
aides de camp, a C#pt. >•' na l '""
and an inhabitant »C On »«
rival in Kingston thcy .fxprelTcd a wiih
immediately conduced to »»* honour
L eaf- Governor, having fnnw '"P 0 '"
tic U l»rs to communicate, and.yettes <»7 w
ing r*t off for Spanish town.On Toefilay the 27th «H. Citizen
Bompard, commander ot the I'Em
bulcade, gave a dinner to the Go
vernorof Pemifylvania, the Minliter
of the French Republic, and foine
other citizens, eta board the Frigate.
After dinner several songs l'uited to
the occasion, were fang with great
etFec't, and the following toaits
drank :
I. The American and French Re
public—May they forever be uni
led ! (a salute of 21 guns.)
■2. The President of the United
States.
3. The Rights «f Man—may they
become universal law.
4. The Republican Fair.
j. The Frigate l'Enibufcade—(a
volunteer by the Governor of Penn
sylvania.)
As the American citizens wete
preparing to leave the frigate, citi
zen Dupont, the boatlwain, addres
sed them j" the name of his mefl
inaies, 111 a speech replete with pa
triotic ieniiments, exprelled with
feeling. The Governor made an
apposite reply.
The company having taken their
leave of citizen Bompard, the Mi
nitler repaired 011 board the lhip
Amiable, Capt. Paul, and returned
him thanks in the name of the re
prefeniativcs of the French nation,
for his generous exertions in saving
the crew of the French lhip La belle
Creole.
Capt, Paul received the Minilter
with cordiality, and citizen Genet,
as he left the vefl'el, was saluted
with fevtral hearty cheers from the
crew of the Amiable, and the Ame
rican citizens who were aflembled
in great numbeis 011 the wharf.
Thirdftrftt, 50th May, X 793-
HIS Britannic Majesty'? Consul-
Gencral for the middleand louthern
States of America, anxious to mani- j
feft his regard for the public peace
of this city, and his refpeft for the
Laws and ,Co« ft notion of the United
States, recommends,molt earnestly,
to the British Seauie" »» 'he port o.
ahd to all others, his
• (Majeity's fubjeds, to condutft tliem
felves with the gicaielt moderation ■
iand good order.
' Si'ich tonaucT will best enrhlr th*rii
to the protection of the laws. If
injuries ftiould be received, by any
of the i'ubjesSs of the Crown, they
are to seek redress through the me
dium pointed out by the Conftitu
tioil of the United States: inen
deavo'ing to obtain that redress,
the Conful-Gjeneral shall ever confi
. der k *s an indifpenfible doty, on
his pare, to afford the utinoft assist
ance aiul protection.
The remarks in the J ollowing Jhort ex
traftj are recommended Jto the conjt
deration of the Syfttm-mongers oj the
present day.
IT is justly observed by Lord
Bacon, that " instead of endeavor
ing to ere(ft new constitutions, the
w 1 idyii) of nations may be found to
confilt in communicating the utmost
degree of perfection to those under
which they have hitherto existed.'
This is in exacft conformity to the
doctrine of gradation in all progres
sive improvement, and which seems,
indeed, to be the oeconoiny of na
ture and divine providence. As
there are various feeds profufely
scattered over the external face ot
nature, so there are various sources
of political societies—and as the
huibandmau only pretends to culti
vate, not to create the feed of vege
tables, so, in like manner, it is tor
the interest of human societies, that
statesmen, instead of forming at
once the very stamina or efl'ence of
new governments, by a process hid
den aijd violent, fhouUl the
of the old in the mean time,
and aflimilate them, according to
the general oeconomy of nature, by
flow degrees, to the moll approved
forms that even metaphysics can de
vile.
Ann •
J tfKf.
CapMt'wb, of the brig Jar*, in 23 days
fom Ringflrm, informs, that when be left
that port, afeout thirty French prize* were
brought in tbart, some of them very rich.
The Mifflia of New.Jersey, agreeable to late
returns, amount to «g,077, between the ages of
18 and 45. The companies in unifoim, in
cluded 111 this number, are 14 ol artillery, si ol
horse, 11 of grenadiers, and 26 of infantry.
A lute W7iter en tie fubjeft of Kings, »n order t-o I
Jhr.w the pernicious conjtquences re fulling J ro ' n
the Jewijh prcdile&iomin their favor % quotes the
celebrated description oj Kings gixen in Jcripture
by the Prophet Samuel—On which, a writer in
the Delaware Gazette makes theJplUwingXcmarks :
TPhe pajfage relates entirely to tfie Jews
preferring a kingly government to theocracy;
that is, to their chilling rather to bp govern
ed by despotic; monarch*, than by men of
God's o\vn immediate appointment, and un
der the guidance of* his unerring wisdom.
This foolifh and ungrateful stupidity of the
Jewiih nation, well deserved the variety of
oppression with which the Lord threatened
them by his servant Samuel. But how do
these threats apply to other kingly govern
ments ? to the Bntilh, for instance, or to the
French government, as established by the con
s ftituent alTembly ? should the people of
; France insist upon a conftitntional King, as
. the only rr.eafuve calculated to put a period
to their calamities, would the denunciations j
of the Prophet be applicable to that nation,
unlets it firft be proved and granted, that the
National Convention are a&ing under the
immediate direction of heaven, and that the
spirit of Samuel animates the breast of a Marat,
a RobertJ'piere, and other leaders of that body ?
The following fehtiments are extrafled from iht ob
servations oj the fame "writer.
" From whatever political ource tollman
misery proceeds, that source must be hateful
to every honelt mind, whether it tak£s its
rife from the foot of the throne, or the tri
bune of popular assembly governments, men
must be judged by their fruits. Those of/mr
American Constitution are de
licious. They stand in 110 need of royal fun
(hine to matuie them. When the benefits of
the French Republic ftinll be equally con
fpicuons, it will then be time enough, amidst
the blaze of human happiness, to forget, if
poflible, the dark and dismal scenes of its hil
tory, which at present, must afflict every
Ton of feeling.
" The love of the /pedes is implanted in the |
li'ind by nature : in this cafe, inftin&'is afTft- I
eel by a sense of duty to seek the hnppinefs of
it; and our enquires, at lengthdifcover, that
nothing can produce this happiness, but public
liberty : Then to procure this, being the
means of gratifying the noblest of its innate
pillions, we fee what it is that has drawn he
roic minds, through all ages, from Mpjes to
Wapiington, to declare themselves such un
wearied advocates for the common rights of
The love of the human fpcties y
therefore, being the only solid foundation of
public liberty and political' equality* fbould
be cultivated by every means and inducement
that human wifdnm can devise. Instead of
shedding the cold mildews of inieivfibillty*over
the fineft feelings of the heart, let it be the*
study of American Patriots to prelerve them
vigorous and lively, while we feel for human
wretchedness, she shall never occasion it :
By figbiug over the crimes of other nations,
we fliall venerate more devoutly the reign of
laws in our own. Universal liberty in every
State flfipuijd bsget mjiyerfal benevolence, or
it fails in a duty efiential to so glorious a pa
rent. May America, guided by moderation
and wisdom, like the mighty eagle, unmoved
amidst the storms of contending nations, re*
new incessantly her immortal youth, and purge
her opening fight at the unobftru&ed beams
of our benign meridian Sun, even while the
ill affettcd birds of night, would with their
envious hooting* prognofticatc an approach
of darkness and decay."
COMMUNICATIONS.
There are y>e».fons among us who pretend to
be friends to the oteutnlity of the United States
in the present war among the power* of Eufope,
whtle at the fame time they vent the.moll un
qualified abule ajiamft the funreme executive of
the Union, and the great body of the mercantile
interest, for adopting, pursuing, and approving
of measures calculated to ensure the great ob
je£l of peace, and securing to the country the
immenfc advantages arising from our peculiarly
fortunate ii:ualion.
Certain declaimers profefs to bp great fiiends
to the agricultural irttereft of the United States,
while they take the nmft effectual meafcires to
deptefs it—attempts to involve our doroeftic
concerns in coniution, by embarrafling the ope
rations of the governmrnt —and tp entangle us
in a war wkich would rcduce our produce to
less than one half its present value—-are the only
evidences of patriotifin exhibited by these per
sons.
The reviler# of the present government of the
Urt'tcd Stafcs, profefs to venerate the Congress:
of'76— and yet they are conJlanUy xountcra&-
ing ihe principles on which the people at that
period, a (Turned the rank of an independent
nation
Some writers, while ihey affutne the appella
tion of the Friti'ds of Liberty, »t the fame nme
consider the fccuiity of the invaluable blrding
under laws enaffrd by the people, as a slate of
ferviiude—hence the coriftant reference to the
times of anarcliy and conlufion, and the frequent
eulogiums on ihrm, as the mod flnurilhing pe
riods in the hiflory of our country ! ,i.
Banks are engine* of ijranny and corruption;
fay our pure immaculate holders forth against'
Ongrefs. The fame fct very confiltemly pa
tioniie the establishment of more hanks under
the charter of the state legiflatuies. The mifchief
lies altogether in their being cflablifhed by Con
gress. Thus it is that nionied corpoiations are
dreadful evils—Therefore, (ay they, let us have
more of them.
No opinion can be more unfounded than
that munufaflures are irjuriots'j to agricul
ture.—l that been attempted, without much
success however, to raile * jealousy against
Consrcft, becsufe the impolt lawi encourage
419
our own workmen by charging a duty on f n ~
rergw Atbricks—That duty is in etfeft a boun
ty.-—The proportion that Congref* (hould fur
ther eV?courage the introduction of new '
branches of manufeftares, and the extension
of thole already eftablilhed, by -giving I'rnall
sums.by way-os bounties, has been made a
formidable scarecrow. The yeomanry of the
Unitexj States .have been addrefled in the most
vehement {h'le, and with every infidiou* ait
of mifreprefentatiou to make them afraid of
their interests being facrificed to the manu
faft.urers-—Fa£ts however bear down this
chiidUh sophistry—The lands, and honfes, and
implements of huftjandry are not taxed-—and
it appears to be thedeiire of the government
to abstain from,fych taxes, until Ibme great
oGcafion shall compel their being laid—Exam
ples are better than long winded arguments
to the direst advantage derived to
rheffcinwrs from the encouragement of ma no.
faftures-'" Bew and Porter cannot be import
ed from foreign countries without paying
high duties—Con fequently, home made maJt
liquors are used in an increafcd proportion.
To prove the advantage to the yeomanry in
this ififtance, take a fact—many of the like
kind can be produced—A cargo of Barley has
been fold in this port for 9f. currency a bulh
el. Quere —WojaId it be for the interest of
tl»e growers of barley to abolish the duty on
imported malt liquors?
The writers of government have complain
ed of being deemed itfj enemies—while they
fufpc<sHt of all evil designs, and charge all
manner, of corruption and profligacy on the
atfminiftcation, they ought to be its enemies.
—Unless they admit that they are not foes t-o
vice—Yet after havjng drawn, as they pre
tend to the life, the most horrible pictures of
government, they tell us they are the true
and only friends of the constitution. Thus it
is said that. : -a Ruffian bridegroom gives his
wife, a goodd nbbing t;o (hew his ardent love
These good friends of the
cm-jftrTutibn fay to government, as the school
boys often fay to each other in joke—do uot
be afraid, we will stand by you till every
bone In your skin is broke, but one, and that
we will break ourselves.
The last accounts from London, fay th>t the
Treaty of Commerce with Ruflia is renewed.
'One of the Liverpool banks it is (aid flopped
payment for two millions of money.
Gen. Alexander died
latejv at Pcnfacola—lt is said he is Succeeded by
C+lphcn.
The " General Advertiser" of Wednesday,
gives a very riifagrerable account of the conduct
of thcSpanilh government, in banishing French
men from that kingdom, with circumstances of
great rigor and cruelty—2l French paffergers
arrived here in the {hip Enterprize last Tuefdav,
from Cadiz. The " American Daily Advertiser"
of Thursday, fays, " it is conje&ured that those
Frenchmen who were obliged to take fan&uary
on board the Enterprize, had omitted comply
ing with some formalities, or had not fatisftcd
1 .iljV- of govet nment."
Mr Herfchel is now said, by the aid of his
powerful glafies, to have reduced to a certaintv,
the opinion that the moon is inhabited. He
has discovered land and water, and is enabled
tp distinguish between the green and barren
mountainous spots on the former, which, as
with us, are subdivided by the fca. Within
these few days he has distinguished a large cdi-
apparently" of greater magnitude than St.
Pauls ; and he is confident of (bortly being able
td give an account of the inhabitant}!,
v ■ London paper.
A correspondent, »n a Providence paper,
beg! leave, with all duefubmiffion, to enquire,
whether tRe French National Convention
have a right to empower their Officers to fit
atid commission privateers in our ports; also,
whether they have likewise power to establish
Courts for the trial 1 of property. —We have a
Supreme Court—we have Circuit Courts—
we have district Courts—we have State Su
perior Courts—and Courts of Common Pleas
—besides, Justices Courts innumerable—lf all
these ate infufficient, in the name of good-
-.uMV Wt Congress or our State Legiflatureo,ef
tablifh more—but I can't conceive, that it is
riecefTary or propfcr for the National Conven
tion of France, or any of their officer?, to un
dertake the business.
From thi New York Daily Adverlifer of zgth ult.
Yeftcrday afternoon arrived the (hip Hazard,
of Wifcaflct, in 43 day* from Liverpool; (be
brings no news of any confluence, farther than
wc had from London of the nthof Ao»il.—
Privateers are still fining out in the different
ports of England, although it is generally he
lieved that peaCe is near at hand, as the present
Fiench National Convention, in all probability,
cannot long govern, they haying entirely loft
the confidence of the people, and famine and
the sword farround them in every dtre&ion. —
Dumourier and his army have declared in favor
of a rcgal government, and are undoubtedly on
their march to Pari?.
THE news about France,
s Leads »M comical dance ;
Rumour, thai rxcentric hag,
Ca'peii up and down, z'g zag;
Now the Ftench are all in a bo?,
Now the Mynheeis arc all in a fog;
Now Dumourier is rutting up the Prufliins,
Now Catharine unkennels her Ruffians;
Now Cobourg ii hewing down whole ranki,
Now Frederick is crofling tbt Rhine's banks ;
Now Cuftine cun ten ilmufand to pieces,
Nor leaves a lingle man to tell the new s; 1
Ev'n Frederick 11 caught without his (hoes,
And BronfwicW'i Duke all pulrlaiaaiiuntctafr
And now another tune the bclciam chimes,
Dumourier turns tail;
Sedufiive «rti prevail—
And Freedom drops a tear at n.ijliiy «hoi*s.
RUMOUR.
Ertrail of a letter from Br< ft, dated
dprd 6, 1793, via Cape-Ftancon.
Citizen Friend,
" I lay hold of the opportunity
of the frigate la Concorde Jailing
for ilie Capp_, to iitroim youot wti-ai.
happens in France. You have ieeu
the war in the Colonies ; we ai e al
niolt in the fame crisis. The fain£
nionfters which fomented ihe w »i
---in tit. Domingo, have foilieined it
in France. 'I lie counuy has 1 evok
ed against us; and the country peo
ple act like the negroes, only they
are )efs reasonable. 1 lie refracto
ry priests have inspired them with
such a degree of ftUiaiicifin, thac
they believe they fhail go to heaven
immediately in cafe they fliould be
killed. The country here has been
subdued ; but a number ot these
unfortunate people weic killed be
fore they could be brought to rea
son, and we have likewise luli. a
number of brave patriots.
" T lie evil is much greater at
Nantes : The city is belieged by
more than country people,
having emigrated noblemen and
refractory priests at their head.
They are eonftantly fighting. *1 he
Patriots of Nantes have made great
havoc amongll these unhappy peo
ple, but this does not deter them ;
we likewise have 101 l a great num
ber of good patriots- All the mails
are intercepted. In short, we are
at war with all nations, and civil
war rages in our own bosom, which
is worse than all the combined pow
ers ; besides we arelurrounded with
traitors : But Jet it be as it will, !
hope we shall conquer them all,and
and that Liberty will triumph.
" A nuni ber of municipalities and
dillritfts have been maflacred—and
many of the citizens' houses and
castles of the patriots have been
pillaged and burnt, particularly in
the department of Vendee in Poi
tou. We have a cruel war, but
we will sustain it. lam at present
at Hreit, in order to fend troops to
Martinique.
" A fleet is to cruize on the coasts
of Poitou in order to prevent a
descent.
" Normontiers, Bourgneuf, Ma
cheroul, St. Nazaire, Croifie, Guer
ande, Montoife, &c. have been ta
ken by the emigrants. Tlie citi*
zens of Nantes have retaken St. Na
zaire and Croiiie , in the lad named
place upwards of 200 emigrants
were killed at one discharge.
" The patriots were lurprifed
through the want of attention of
the administrative bodies, or as I
rather think, betrayed. They have
nov# began to drive offthefe villains,
for so they may be justly called.
The Guillotine is conitamly a going
—a great many heads are cut off
every day. This is horrid. The
war will be terrible this fumnier.—
farewell.
" 1 have nothing good to tell you;
of the bad we have enovgh, but ne
verthelels I hope we (hall conquer.
1 wilh you more tranquility than
we have.
" Just now peace is made with
Hamburgh, and orders have been
given to~ refliore the veflels taken
from them. Sweden, Denmark and
the United States are at peace with
us ; this is all."
Married, at Goih£n, by the Rev. Nathan
Ker, Jonathan Bursal, Esq. of New Yo k,
to Miss Frances Wickham, daughter of
V/illiam Wickhain, E(~n- of Orange county.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVEDa/lAf PORTo/P.HILADEI PHIA.
Ship Betsey, Read ng, Port-au-Princc
Brig Polly, M'Lean, Moutego Bay,
Molly, Mercer, Oporto
Ann, Glover, Tobago
Schooner Elizabeth, Philip?, Port-au-Prince
Lydia, Dennis, Wilmington, N.C.
Fair'Laeiv, Golßgin, Jeiemie, Hifp.
Sloop Polly, Franklin, Virginia
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents,
3 per Cents,
Deferred, icJ
Full (hares Bank. IT. S. 6in 8 pei ceoi. adv.
AD/ERTISEUEfIt.
g3"" Number 104, of this Gazette,
pleats a year linee the commencement of the
4th volume—As the Editor proposes to en
large the publication at rlie time of the next
meeting of the present volume •will
be continued till that period, and the papers
published in the interim, numbered and paged
accordingly.
l ih
9HInterview was violent. Dumourier ex
pressed himfelf in terms of iriveflire a
gainst the Jacobins. " They will ruin
France," (aid he : " But I will save it,
though they (hould call me a CsefaV, a
Cromwell, a Monk." The commission
ers carried the conversation no further.
They departed, and returned next day,
determined to dissemble, in order the bet
ter to discover the extent of his views.
Encouraged by their overtures, D imou
rier no longer kept any bounds. He said
that the convention were a herd of ruffi
ans, whom he, all, equally, htld in abhor
ance. That all the volunteers were pol
tioons ; but all their efforts would be ih
vain. " A3 for the reft, added lie, "there
Hill remain* a party —the Jacobins have
only to cover with their bodies the survi
vors of the royal family, and to dismiss
the convention. If the queen and her
children are threatened, I will march to
Paris ; it is my fixed intention ; and the
convention will not <*xift three week 4 lon
ger."—The cortimiffioners asked him by
what mt ans he would replacfe the conven
tion ? Hisanfwer Was, that meartfcare al
ready formed. Do not you wish ro
have the constitution ?—A, It is a foof
ifh constitution : IfcXpetfled better from
Condorcet; the former, with all its iWi
peifettions, was preferable.—Do you
wish to have a king ?—A. We mtift l>aVe
one.—And from What quarter would
you take hrm—A. ' Of What fc6ii'fe
quence is it whether it be a James, a Lou
is, or a Philip ?' It Is a tieW outrage of
the Jacobins to call me of the Orleans
party.—said Proli, How w6uld ybii
contrive to cause your new constitution
and your king to be A. 1
have along with me all the Prefidenfs of
diftrifts ; besides, I am busied to restore
peace to Prance ; I have already entered
into a negociation with the prince of Co
bourg for an exchange of prisoners ; and
for the purpose of withdrawing from Hol
land those eighteen battalions who are on
the point of being cut off.—Btit your
negociations with Cobourg, and the peace
which you wish tp procure to Prance,
will npt have the effedt to metamorphose
republicans intp royalists ? No mat
ter. Must I again tell you ? I will be at
Paris in three weeks ! and 1 will then be
able to prevent them from going on with
their projedts of liberty and a republic.
Since the battle of.Jemappe, I have wept
over my success in so bad a cause. France
must have a king.—Q. Do you think we
ought to'abandon the French territory to
the enemy?— How would you inffial
your king A. My army, if I choose,
(hall be an army of Mamelukes. With
twelve thoiifaiid men 1 will lake Paris,
6r cotrfpel it <0 furfender by famine.—
But ridy not yOu, perhaps be ftopt
in your proje&s ? A. I defpife'the Con
vention'; it Will soon 'be reduced to the
Bailiwick of farls. Besides, my hftitfc
will soon carry me the AtlftriArrs.
They efleem trie ; 'arid I shall be redeited
By them. Dubiiißon thHiprppofed to
communicate to him a plan of counter
revolution A. It is hot practicable.
Mine is"better. I mean to'invade Belgi
um, of which I will malie the cohqueft
for myfeif and of which Twill render my
felf chief, under the protection of the
House of Auflria !—Here terminated
the interview of the commiffioflers. Tfiey
quitted Tournay on the fame evening on
their return to Paris.
It was decreed that acommiffion Iho'iild
be formed to examine the conduit of the
Belgic cornmlffioners.
April 2
A letter was read from the administra
tors of Maine and dating, that
there was every reason to hope that the
insurgents would soon be dispersed, artd
that those of them who had been taken
had been tried by martial law,"and irrinrtt
diately executed. To this letter was ad
ded a copy of the examination of one of
the < insurgents, named Cartiho, from
which it appeared that the insurgents as
sumed. the title of the Qhriftian Army,
and'that their signal for rallying was Vive
le Roi", la Reine, I' Arillocrat ! It was
ftattd also, that they had declared for a
king—that they at fit (I amounted only to
fifty, that they had afterwards encreafed
to 12,000, and that they had twenty-five
pieces of cannon. Referred to the com
mittee of general defence.
The. mayor and procureur of the com
mune of Saint Arnoud gave an afccount
of the difinal situation of that diftrifit for
want of provisions. Referred to the com
mittee of commerce.
Debates refpefting General l)i3mourier.
In ihe beting of March 30th, after the
convention had decreed that geneial Du*
mourier ftould be brought to thi bar.
Marat moved, That the minitter at war
should remain at Paris, where he would be
more ufeful than on the frontier* infpett
ing the army of the north.
Camus said, that tlie miniftfcr hafd yt?-
terday made tw» obje&ions to the com
mittee— ill, The neceflny of hit presence
at the war-office ; 2nd, The bail Rate of
hii health. The committee repf!rt?d, that
his health Would allow him to take a
journey of seven or eight days to save his
country from danger j and that Kis aflift
ant would attend to the bofinefr'of the
war-office.
In the fitting of Aptil id, a nVeAibe'r
announced, that several committees had
fat aH night to extraA the different plans
of confutation sent by the departments.
Marat said, it WftTj'ld timfe inough
to think of the ionfti'tutiori, when Du
mouricr and the other felf chosen states
men should be known and punished.
Ciroteau moved, t+nrt without regard
to the national fibrtftritkllon, and tlie
inviolability of members, every member
fufpedted of confprracy againit the public
fafety, should be pot undlrr aireft. This
Was adopted iinanirtioufly.
Cambaceres, after reading g&n'c'rkl Du
mourier's letters, ancl giving an account
of the tonverfation which had passed be
twfeen hrm and the commiffiono* at Tdtir
najr, concluded the report made by hi/n,
in the name of the committee of public
fafety, by observing, that there was a
grand conspiracy, of which Dilmourier
Was the principal agfcrit, and that several
persons attached to th"e bbtife of Philip
d'Orleans, commonly called Egalite, were
vehemently fufpe&ed of being concerned
in it. He announced as a measure 'of
fafety, that all those supposed to be cOn
ne&ed with Oileans, or to wifhfor roy
alty, ought "to be apprehended. Philip
Egalite himfelf and Sillery would have
been apprehended but from refpeft to the
national representation, of which they
Were members. Being brought before
the committee, they both anfweied, that
they would consider it as their iluty to
submit to whatever precautions the pub.
lie liberty might require, 'and invoked ffie
mod fcrupurdiis examination of their con
du'ft.
Several,members wished to speak on
the condudt of Dumourier, but it Was ob
served, th'at it Wouldbe better to wait till
hfs arrival. Danton, however, entered
into some explanations of his own con
duct, 'and exprefled his indignation'at' tile
treachery ofDumourier.
Lafource said, that Danton abandoned
Dumourier only because he few his perfi
dy unmasked. The principitate journies
of Danton ; his rffofal to appeir ir. the
Committee ; his efforts to raise the'people
in a body ; and the immense fuins which
he had spent without producing any'ac
count, proved clearly that he wis in con
cert wirh Dmmbufiir. He moved, that
Sillery and Egalite should be put under
arrest ; that a commifiion should be form
ed, to examine the conduct of the com
miffiorters in Belgium ; that the'miniite
add/effed by DnbuilTon, Patiryfae, and
Paoli, should be printed arid fen: to the
army ; and that an address should be pre
pared, to explain to the French petiple
the misfortunes of their country.
Boiteau denounced Fabre d'Eglarttine
is having proposed the rc-eftablifhment
royalty.
Demas moved, that these denunciati
ons, which at the present moment might
ruin the public liberty, fhanld be referred
to, the commifiion proposed by Lafource.
—Decreed.
Danton—" The patriots'are oppreflcd
by the aristocracy. It is meant to mur
der them, by making the people believe
that they have been tampering in Du
mouiier's plot. [He was interrupted by
a vehement agitation of the Convention,
and afterwards proceeded} You reproach
me, you who fit on the Mountain,
not exerting all the energy of charadter
which nature hath bellowed upon me,
You accuse me of weakness. Very well!
I confefs my crior, and I proclaim before
all France, rhat thofe,who through ftupi
pity or weakness meant to withdraw the
tyrant from the sword of the law, are the
fame men who indulge in the infolept
pra&ice of calumny.; I am reproached
with not repairing to the committee at
the moment of my' return from Belgium
Howcould I?—overpowered with fatigue,
420
after palling several liighrs without reft,
was it not riatural to yield to this firft
call ? Scarce had I obtained a few hours
of ripofe A'hfcn I re'paited to the C6m
mittee, and I call to witness all who were
present, what were my firft words—"
Dumourier must he watched. Ditmour
itr is a traitor. Diimourie'r has said, lhat
the Convention cortfifts of three hundred
fools, led by four hundred ruffians."
" But t)umourier wilhes for a king,
and Danton is fufpefted of having hem
his partner in this audacious, this crimi
nal idea. Danton, who, if 1 may fay so,
ltd the tyiant to the fcaffold. But let us
cease to impute to innocence a ciirne. of
which these only who had the wicked ness
to keep terms with Louis can alone be
eaTonably fufpefled.—Thofe who endea
voured to exasperate Dumourier
the popular societies—Those who wished
to punish the civifm of Paris, by arming
the departrtfiehtfe iigainft it—Those who
at clandestine suppers concerted plans of
cotifpiraty with Turn. I defy the triitor
to produce a single line of mine that can
compromise me with him. If he can,
let iny htad pay the forfeit." He con
cluded With fir6'po(ihg to levy fifty thou
fahd men sot the prote&ion of Paris { and
that the Commission above decreed {hould
take cognizance of atl the deputies since
the opening bf the Convention, and of all
publications against the unity of the Re
public, &c.
Obfelin, from the Committee of Sor
reilance, announced that a great number
ofdeferters was flocking to Paris. He
read a Declaration of the commandant of
the light cavalty of Calvados, denouncing
Dumourier and his Aid-de-Camp Baptille,
formerly his Valet-de Chambre. The
Convention passed a decree for apprehend
ing at the barriers of Paris all military
men who (hould not produce leave of ab
sence.
Decreed that Baptifle be put utitter at
r'ell.
SITTING OF THE JACOBINS.
Monday, March 25.
A vible'TTt debate "arose on the quefti'dn,
whether the society ought riot to fend
commilfioners chosen from its own mem- !
bers, to accompany those of the Conven
tion into the departments.
Drtlielrtc said that the fiharic'fs of the jj
society in a very deranged state.
Marat treated this as a frivolous excuse, '
and said that the society ought to fend '
into the departments trully persons, who \
might fcci'etly fdund the public Opinion. ',j
This, added he, would be the Only means
to save your emiflaries from th'e poignards •
of aflaflins.
Bentabolle communicated to the foci
ety fhe'bsd ffews leceived fiom Belgium ;
800 millions of expences, and 150,000
men conducted to (laughter. These are
the fruits'of all our conquests in the Ne
therlands !
Marat.—" Dumourier pretends that :
the cause of all our misfortunes ought to
be ascribed to the diforganizers who exist
in his army ; but thei e are no other difor
ganizers except the chiefs whom he him
felf has chosen."
An administrator of the department of
D£tlx Sevres, after mentioning the trou
bles by which the ten itoiies of the Repu
blic are desolated, cried out, —" Rife,
your enemies are in the midst of you
crufli them, or they will cru(h you ! The
people can only save themselves. Let
them, then, it is time ! Remember the
icjth of August. March 1 you have not
a moment to lose !"
Hebert.—" The counter-revolution is
in the Convention. Your legislators are
your tyrants ; they are in concert with
the generals and the executive power.—
Let the people then rife. The Conven
tion, inltead of saving, mean to betray
us."
[Several voices from the galleries here
cried out, " No more quarter, let us rife
and strike !"J
Another member.—" Let Us proceed
to the Convention. Let the' Mountain
be in force, and let it fay to the people,
here are your friends, there-are yogr ty-
rants.
Thia infurre&ian fmift be' the lad, for
filch stocks exhaust the machine ; the
blood of your enemies mull run in large
streams. fame hour, on the farrte
day, in aH ;he 'towns," in all the villages,
all the haftllets, and in all the cottages
throughout the kingdom, the heads of
conspirators mud roll in the dult." [Ap
plauded with much tranfport.J
Wen** resit, March
Marat.—■*" Tile prop It of P«fi» OtiMi'.U
furrotittd the Cormtitien, and druian4
whether it will of can sara the puM*
catlfrj and ought to porfue meuiurei ao
cotdiitp; to rile artfwer they may reeeite."*
Robetfpi<ri*re.-*-«' The ortly mean* if
fatiilg ottrMve* an? t<v dedare war again it
dw etiemi<v, si tftey hate delicti war
against ua. Let ui remember the I-atlv
<>f Aagait. Let ui mn go t« ad; vtie
Corvteiftion whether it w<ill five us. Yea,
it will, but w* malt fecoud it. I propoJc
thsrt, tWat all fcAaighi.il br (smithed, (ill
the agents of the cabinets of Vieni*s mk|
Bei&i > all firfpe&ed p*rfoß». You will
alk me how tbey are to be dift«w«iedf
Let a revokitkinacy committee, cbOipofrd
(if warm patriots, be eftabhftieH in «»ch
fettmn. Baitifh ftttfn theft fediow tti
the ci-devanl nobles, prieib, dcc."
Af>plau<?*fl.
Dufourm propelled, thst Fo difeoter
evil-ttinded persons, every landlord thotHa
bfe obliged X 6 post up&ti his doore, rt*
names of the persons who lodge m their
hoiifts, with the time of theft" residence
and their occupations." Adopted.
Several members proposed differtrM
meatures of general fafety, but all agreed
on the nece'fiity dFa new infurreftion.
Bo [tel.—" As the law is not executed
the people mull: dojuftice to fhemtelves."
TetafTon.—" When we always speak
and never a&, it is no purpose. Let ua
begin by diferming the arittocrats, and
we (hall afterwards proceed faither. The
committer of general defencc is corrupt
ed, and the executive council to b<
watched ; in the mean time let ua exe
cute." [Here the c»icd out
Bravo !J
A member.—" Datitsn hire been the
apologist of Dutnouriw. Let him be
called to this b»r, -to wcplain (he reafou
of tlle.jfraifesgivento gen.
cal; and if he Tefufe, let him b< Mnfi.
dered as a trait<t», aw) UteateJj a« faoh."
Adopted with much .applause.
VinalPs Arithmetic.
r 7T > iIE Second Edition of this wo'k, with im-
X provements, wilj speedily be put to pe'f».
The rtipid br
the 'itfhdfs T»ngnr«r
-ertcbufagfcs him to»printa itteond c&tMpfe. He
intends 10 have it printed upon much better-pa
per than the former, and with a ne-w type,
Thofc Booklcllers who'wfth to fake -a *ndm
<?opi£s in 'fillets, are r«<<ju cited'to apply to
d»e airtHor fonp^rtieoiars.
* toco fopies.
At a of t-he School 'CottM&Ttai,
h,,, j 793.
Tlfetofrvtaiitfee,*ip'ptoirlr<?cl" to'ex*mi*e ,r Ttoe
P;tfieptor's"A(Jjftant, orStedtnt'*Guide,"betag
a fyftetnatioal treatise <*f .Jo****
Vi nal l, teacher of the Math'-matici & Writ
ing, in'Bollcn, reported, that theyhave attended
Hrat f£rvi£«,'arid bfe of optnrdn, thie the wofk
'teexediifed With judgment, a*id 4s»'a-s will aadcu
)ated for theufe of fcHools,-counting k:»ufrs t rartd
private families, as any of the farae compaf*
that has hitherto been differed to the public.
Voted, That (fieahotfc report be accepted,
rfrvd'rtftt' Mr/Vftf a l l be fornifhed-vrith aCdpy
-6f it, whenever he /ha!) desire it.
Copv of the Records. Attest,
CWAR'LBSBUL'FIVcM, Sec'ry.
The following character of the above Olork,
,J fs'giten tnlhe'Rfrview of <\\t'Mdj]athvfetts Ma
gazine y ior J*n. i? 793 :
u This U a very ufeful work, and is no ill
proof of thejudarment and indullry of the au\hor.
The &re laid down wtoh propriety,
"tHe ert&rAplt-s are fdfficieni for fcheir <1-
li/ftration. One part of *he work delervcs-par
tirulir commendation. We* mean that which
the author flilca «• Mercantile % Arithmtic u -It
occupies a considerable portion of his book, but
trot more than'ft* irrtportiftctf Will jtfft'ify. We
would* rfceorhmend to the yotti?g»Ar>*hm*t«ician
to pay a particular attention to this brauth.
He will firld its princioles well e*ptained And
fhould'he m«jß.e himfelf mafterof thdm, he will
feafon 1 ttf acknowledge his obliga
tion to the jJdicidQs .fad 'labweus author. "We
canrjoftbut congratulate *he r-ffinggeneration on
account of the many ufeful produ#»ons which
have lately appeared ; arid in which their ?m
---' provritfent hfcs be£n c#i*rncipalfy CttnfoltM; —
"Arrrbrtg thfrfe produ£tions *we r ilToft pf>Cfl*his
treatise of Arithmetic. We (TnouJd be»wanMng
in justice to the author, fhoulck we not acknow
ledge that his work is in reality that which its
'title itfiports—The Pa Assist a Ht,
tjr'Stft/otfNr's GuiDt."
P O S T - R O AJ)
TO THE GENESEE COU^TRX.
r T" T HE public arc hereby informed, that the
X Post-Road from Philadelphia to Reading,
is continued to Sunbury artd Northumberland I
Whence up the Weft Branch iof the Stffquehaffnah
■as "far ■as-Lkoming ; thenre-to the Prfinted Post
(>n New-York state, near the forks of the Ti/»ga)
thence to Bath fn-tirwirlaid-out on the Cohofton
Brtfirrh of the Tioga) thfnce to-Williantfburg,
at the forks of Genefec River.
Letters for th»s new route will be Trot from
the Philadelphia Poft-Office every tVetf.nefday
morning, at eight o'clock, with the mail lor
Reading.
A weekly mail will a-110 be ear lied from
Bethlehem to Wilfluibarre, in the couniy ot
Luzerne. jtfe?
'General Pojt-Office, Apriib, 1703.
Afr'S.
r. c, a.