c^/ yt
• "" . "
A NATIQHAI PAPER} "" ri -~ J Tr rrr li'm I i~L J J ,L_ J' _ 1 ' -I- ' ' ■ 1 ■ ■ » -
■ ..i... . , , BYJdtiNfCNW, No. 34, NOfTB, FIfTU.STH££T, FHILAP^LKHXA
[No. . Jtf of Vol. IV.] ■ \y EDME ' SPAY> September .8, , 795 .
R. I C H M O N D, (Virginia.)
Jul olio wing ts thi+iddrefs of the citizen i as this.city
dndiii vicinity Jo the President of the ihited Stat a.
Richmond, Aifguft 17, 1793.
fMPIiESSED with a full cmivi&ion of the
wiklomofyour adminiflration in general, &■
especially approving that system of conduct
Tffhich you have adopted, ind (teadily oblerv
ed towards the belligerent powers of Europe
we, the inhabitants of Richmond and its vi
cinity in the commonwealth of Virginia, are
happy in an opportunity of conveying to you
their genuine fentiinents.
When propitious heaven had crowned with
victory the efforts of your country and yoiir-
J'eli, while rejoicing America enumerated the
blclliiigs to be derived froij) so important a
revo utiog, it was not reckoned among the
teatt of tbem tha', in future, the people of
this favored land might in peace pi their
own happinifs,though war -And violelfte Ihould
desolate the European world, or drench it in
human blood—So too, when the good genius
of Amerii a had deviled that change in otir
government, which her wifdmn has since a
itoptedjit w.is heltl an argument atfotrie weight
ugainft the necefiitv of this (change, and all"in
opposition to it with one voice declared, that,
situated as this country is, no njadnefs or.fol
ly could ever be To lupreme -as to involve us
again in European contests. Nor was this
opinion, so uniform and uuiverfal, in favor
of peace, derived from any other lource than
a knowledge of the real situation and a con
viction of the real intfcrefts of America. It
is impoflible for the eye of cool and tempe
rate reason' to survey ihefe United States
without perceiving, that, however dreadful
the calamities of war may be to other nations,
they ar6 still more dreadful to us, and howe
ver important the benefits of peace to others,
to us they are fti.fl more beneficial.
From tilofe whose province it is to make
war, we expert every effort to avoid it con.
filtent with the honor, interest and good faith
of America ; from you, fir, to whom is as
signed the important talk of, ''taking care
that the laws be faithfully executed," we
have already experienced the mofl: active and
•watchful attention to our dearest interests.
Ever iince the period when a just refpe&
for the voic4 ot your country induced you to
abandon the retirement you loved, for that"'
high station to which your iellow-cit izcns una
nimously called you, your conduct has been
uniformly calculated to promote their happi
ness and welfare : And in 110 instance has this
been more remarkable, or yonr vigilant at
tention to the duties of your office more
clearly di covered, than in your proclamation
icfpf&ing the neutrality of the United States.
As genuine Americans, wUh no other in
terest at heart but that of* our country, un
biafTed by foreign influence, which hiftoi y in
form? us s»as been the bane of more than one
republic, onr minds are (/pen to a due fenfc of
the propriety, jitflice, and wifdorijfflp" tnis
measure ; and we cannot refrain from ex
prefljng our pleasure at its adoption.
We recoiled' too well the calamities of war,
not to use our belt endeavors to retrain any
kicked citizen, if fuc'l* indeed can be fodnd
among u*, who, disregarding his oWn duty,
arid the happiness of the United States, in vi
olation of the law of the land, and the wish
tft the people, /hall dare to gratify his paltry
paflions at the rifle of his country's wel
fare, perhaps of her existence.
W* pj ay heaven to manifeft' its
tial care of these Hates, by prolonging to
tnem the blellmg of your administration—ants
)nay the'pure spirit of it continue to animate
rhe government of America through a fU'C
ceflion of ag|es.
Signed by-desire and on behalf of the nresting,
GEORGE WYTHE, Prefidcrtt,
(Tefte) ANDREW DUNSCOMB, Sec'ry.
• • ANSWER.
To of Richmond and its vicinity.
I'dtow-Citizens,
AMONG the 1 numerous expreflions of" tfie
foiiJe, in favor of the xvhi<bh r
have been adopted -for the observance of neti
trality in the present war of Europe,none- is
niorfe grateful to me, than that of Richmond
and its vicinity.
■ in'wticli'if' lay's
viairu to nly affectioliare ii c k\i dwTe d eM T
In recolle&ieg the anticipations wAhivei-S
of a pacific policy, as'ntoft- con'
Jiinant with the lituation of the United States
«fcd't!ie : getmis of Cut- government, it is a
Whtfn'tlitf o'ccili'dn for
exemplifying it' o«Ur«, fefitilttgnt's' eorfei?
P" nd .itif with if appehf tit j)erva<fce»«iry; paW
the cnirjmimirv, This fteadmefs of* views,
M»Wylionlora!We to the national fharafter, is
wel ' «rtculat*dto ft'ppfert in" the adminiftra.
tion of oar aflair*, afplrit conftarftfylivbra
ble to the gieat hbjeft of peace.'
the, boft rnd fibcereft- eftdet-;
JWs t° thvj 'end, may fonietiniei prove inet-
ItMUjfi, vet H will always be a (ource of con.
l«»riort&«ld'*»!U.dfagetociit, that'theia)jin>i
of warj jl -at my time they {hkllfic ck-
have beer, unfmight af>* unpro
,«**&. Ever* gdod cifeen will then tattt
events with that firnincfs and perfeverarce
w#ich naturally accompany the conVcrinifnefs
ot a good cause, the conviction that' there is
no ground for ft If reproach.
True to our duties and interests as Ameri
cans—firm to our purpofjL a s lovers of peace
—let us unite our iervent prayers to the
C.reat Kuler ot tJniverfe, that the jus
tice ;,nd moderation of all concerned iV.ay
permit us to continue in the nninterrupted
enjoyment of a blelfing vvhlch we so greatly
prize, arid oi which we ardently wish them it
speedy and permanent participation.
GEORGE WASHINGTON.
At a general meeting of tbe inhabitants of
the town of Petcrfburg (Virginia) ami its
vicinity, at the comt-boufe of the laid
town on Monday the 2d September 1793.
.-THE committee appointed by the town
m'ccfing held 0:1 Saturday last, to draw up'and
propose to the p relent for their con
fideration, certain refdiutions, this day pro
pofcd to the meeting the resolutions follow
ing, viz.—
Re f *olv«d, T ha* it i«»c©nfi{ient with the true
irttereft of t!ie United Spates, as well as their
good faith, to preser ve the ftrifteft neutrality
in the prAfent' situation of Eurdpe.
7 hat; we highly approve, and are firmly re
foived ftridtly to oblerve the President's late
proclamation, because we believe it was dic
tated by a profound knowledge of the lute
rests of th6fe states, and by a sincere and ho
neil desire of promoting their real happiness
and prosperity.
That we will use every exertion to dif
; countenance andTupprefs'all fnch tiefigns and
procee&?rfgs as in any manner tend to inter
- rtjpt that harmony and tranquility which we
enjoy under a just and pacific admiuiftratifm
°* ' ia ipP' government.
That the intei ference of any foreign power
or minister in the internal adiriiniitration of
dur govermnent, is an infringement of the
sovereignty of the people, tends to destroy
public cwjfidence, to introduce confufiui* and
anarchy, and therefore ftiould excite the in
dignation and reprehension of every indepen
dent American.
I any attempts to diminifti that confi
dence which our citizens repose in the difin-
of the present chief magilbate
of the United Spates, are equally ungrateful,
illiberal and urjuft.
Resolved, That the Chairman tranfrtiit the
foregoing refdltltidns to Thomas Jefferfbn,
Efq & req;uefl. him to comiriunicate the fame
to the Prefideirt of'the United State*.
And the said resolutions being levei ally and
dirtin<sVly read, were nnaniinoufly adopted.
And the meeting confirming, the following
resolution was prdpofed and unanimotifl'y a
greed to.
_ Refolveri, That we consider the combina
tion of the despots of Europe ngainft the Ii-
Uertiesol Fiance, as having a direct tendency
to destroy the political happiness of mankind ;
& though we fefej aniritereft in preserving our
neutrality, yet it is our fineere w'iihj that ii
]>?rty and the rights of man may be the pre
vailing piilicipies throughout tie universe.
THOMAS G. PEACHY, Chairman.
THE Grand Jury for the
of the counties of llenrjco, Goochland, Ha
nover, Chefferfield, and Powhatan, impressed
with the charge delivered to them by the
pvefidlng Judge of this d*iftii&, have directed
.their attention to the fubjetfis M'hich it pre
sented to their notice, upon some of winch
tfiev think it proper and to express
their sentiments.
Adverting alio to the nature and objess of
their inftitutitfn, thty consider thenifeli'es to
be fully authorised, as oiVen as the occasion
shall be fufiiciently prefling or important, to
animadvert upon the laws and proceedings of
the government.
In the prefeht calamitous (late of foreign
hoftilitres, the Grand Jury conceive that the
I.onor and happiness of, this country ale in a
great measure involved in the conduct which
its government ihall purl'ue towards the na
tions'a't war.
They consider the United States as bound
by the treaties as %vell a$ their dea eft inter
ests to observe a Itri<st neutrality towards the
belligerent powers, and therefore they teftify
in this public manner their high approbation of
thole measures which have been adopted by
the President of tlie United States, to procure
a pun&ual observance of that neutrality and
thereby* to p eferve the'honor and toe promote
the true inteieifcs of this country.
The Grand Jury, estimating as they ought
the foverelgnty and independence of these
United States, view with a juit indignation
all attempts of foreign powers or their Minis
ters to influence the measures of our govern
ment, or to detach the confidence oi* the peo
ple frotii those to whom they Uave committed
its administration, such attempts ought to be
confide Ted as high'infults upon the people of
America, as incitements totbe boldest treason,
and as calculatcd to plunge the government
and Citizens of the United States, into all the
evh of anarefcv and diiorder.
CARTER BHAXTOK, Tirmin.
541
HELVIDIUS— No. V.
TTAVINGfeen that the executive has no
A A conftitntionn] right to interterc in any
question whether there be or be not a cause of
war, and the cxtenlive confequinces flowing
Irojn the do&rines 011 which a claim has been
a flirted, it remains to be enquired wihether
the is better warranted in the fact
Which he a flumes, namely that the proclama
tion ot the Executive has undertaken to de
cide the queltion, whether there be a cause of
war or not, hi the article of guaranty be
tween the United States and France, and, in
so doing has exercised the right which is claim
ed for that department.
Before I proceed to the examination of this
point, it may not be amiss to advert to the
novelty of the phrai'eology, as well as of the
doiflrines, expounded by this writer. 'The
iource troni which the former is evidently
borrowed, may enlighten our conjectures
with regard to the foqice of the latter. It is
a just obl'er viitien also that words have often
a gradual influence on ideas, and wh'iij used
in an improper jenle, may cover fallacies
which w. ;,tberwfe efc2|w (!l"i
I allude particularly to his application of
the term gmtrvmcn't to the txceulive authority
alone. TPhe I'roclamaiion is " a manifefta-
tion pi the ferife-of the government; 4< whv did
not the government wait, &c.—The policy
on the f>aj t-of the government oi' removing all
doubt as to its occu dijpojition/'* "It \vm of
great inrptotarfce that our citizens fliould un
derihmdas early as possible the opinion en er
tained by thegovmnnint, &c." If j„ addition
to the reft, the early manifeftation of the vieui
of the government, had any effect in fixing iht
public opinion, &c. The reader will probably be
struck with the reflexion, that if the Procla
mation really portl-iTed the character, and was
to have theeifeas, here ascribed to it, fonie
thing more than the authority of the govern
ment, in the writer's sense of government,
would have been a necefiaiy sanction to the
ast, and if the term 44 governineut be remo
ved, and that of« Pieiident" fubftitoted, in
the sentences cjuoted, the j lift ice of the re
[ flsftion will be felt with peculiar force. But
| I remark ortl}-, on the Angularity of the llile
! adopted by the writer, as fiiewing either that
. the phrafe«t«gy of a foreign government
is more fatrtilrar t'o him than the phrase
"logy pro|*r to our own, or that he wiflies
to propagate a familiarity of the former
in preference to the latter, I do not know
what degree of difapprobatton others may
think jjue to this innovation of language,
but I consider it as far above a trivial criti
cifrri, to obfervc'that it is by no means un
worthy of attention, whether viewed with
' an eye to its probable cause or its apparent
tendency, " the government/' unquestiona
bly means in the United States the whole go
vernment, not the executive part, either ex
clufjvelv, or ptc-cmincntiy j as it may do in a
monarchy, where thefplendor of prerogative
eclipse;, and the machinery of influence, di
refis, every other part of the government
111 the'former and proper sense, the term has
hitherto been used in official proceeding-;, in
public difcuflions, and in private difconrfe.
It is'as fliort and as e»jy, and less liable to
misapprehension, to fay, the Executive or the
President, as to fay the government. In a
word the new diali& doiild not proceed either
from neceflity, codveniency, propriety, or
perfpicuitv J *110 being in oppolition to com.
mon tifage, so marked a fondnefs for it, jnf
tifies the notice iiere taken of it. It (hall no
important subjecT: of the crefeut paper.
I proceed therefore to observe that as a
" Proclamation," irt its ordinary nle, is an
address to citizens or fubjefts only; as it i
always nnderflood to relate to the law acluullj
in Obeifiwi, and to be an act partly and exclu
/ivcly Executive ; there can be 110 implication
irt the name or the Jo>m of such an inilrument
that if was meant principally, lor the infor
mation of foreign nations ; far le(s that it re
lated to an eventual Jhpulation on a fubjedt, ac
to be witnin the I.egifiaiive province
When the writer therefore undertook tf
e-'gi at't h s new prerogative on the Procla
niation, by afdibing to it so unusual, and 1 11
implied a meaning, it was evidently incum
bent 011 him to ftiew, that the/M7 <if the in
livument cou'd not be fatisfied by any othe
conftruftion than his own. he done this
No. What lias he done ? lie has called th<
Proclamation a Proclamation of neutrality
he has put his own ai bitrary meaning on tha
phi afejand has then,proceeded in his arguments
ami his inl>renf||s, Wlth 3,1 much confidence,
as if no qneftion was ever to be asked, whe
ther the tirin " neutrality" be in the Procla
mttion ; or whether, if there, it could jufti
ly the ufir he mates of it.
It has appeared from nbfervations already
made, that if the tirtn "neutrality" was in'
the Proclamation, it cou'dnbt avail the wri
ter, in the prfifent difcuflion ; but the fact ll
rto Itch iprm is to be found in it, nor any other
< * Tie uAiler Iff hi ttot fn the Jape paper, A'».
''//> to'Junx.Jfcid, " HtKiii Prefiiimt announced
his own dilpofition,, ketvtmU have tan tJtfrffc,
rile rtilh tttfifn, ijrujt pTsfnmption.-
[Whole No. 458.]
term, of a meaning equivalent to that, j u
whick the term neutrality is uiid by him.
There is ti.e less pretext, in the prefer*
cafe, tor hunting alter any latent 01 extra
ordinary objefc) beraul'e an obvious am) legal
one, is at hand, to fatisfy the octalion r. n
which the Proclamation ili'ued. The exift
enceot war among several nations with which
the United States have an extensive inter
course; the duty of the Executive to p,c
lei ve peace by enforcing its laws, whillt thole
la\vs C»>iitinned in force ; the danger that fn
difcreet citizens might be tempted or fur.
prised by the crisis, into unlawful proceedings,
tending to involve the United States in a
war, which the competent authority might
decide them to be at liberty tn avoid, and
which, if they ftiould be judged not at liberty
to avoid, the other party to the rtenlual ccn
tr J in 'B hr not be willing to iinpofe on them )
thtfe Jurtly mfyht have been fuificient grounds
<0? the meafurc pursued by the executive, and
being t<?gal and rational grounds, .it wouid be
wrong, i( Mere be no nficeffity, to look beyond
them.
It there be any tiling in the Proclamation
of which the wrtrer.eotild have made a linndlef
it is the part which declares, the itjfw/itten, the
duty and the intcrcj} of the United States, in
relation to the war ex tHng in Kuropt. As
the Legislature is the only competent and
coiiftitut iOn a I organ oi the will of the na ti o;. j
that is, of it? difoofttion, its ditty anil its in
terelf, in relation to a commencement ol w&r (
in like manner as the prelident and Senate
joihity, not the President alone, are in relation
to peace, afre'r wai has been commenced J
will not dissemble niv wifli that a language
left exposed to criticism had been preiered ;
but taking the expiefiions, in the sense of
the writer hiinfetf; as analogous to the fan.
guage which might be proper, 011 the recep.
tioii df a pubiic Mihilier, or any filn'ilar occa
sion, it is evident, that his conUruftion can
derive no succour, even frbns this rel'ource.
If the Proclamation then dties Hot rtqtitri
the eonftruflion which tills writer (iaj taken
the liberty of putting <>n it j I leate it to be
decided whether the following confederations
do not forbid us to' fnppofe, that the Presi
dent could have intended, bv that ast, to em
brace and prejudge the Legiflutive -qtieftiotf
whether theie was, or was not, under the cir
cuinftances of the cafe , a taufe of War in the
article of guaranty.
It ha%.be-ii niiewn rtaf fncfi an {hv'nfiaj
would have dfYrrpeß a pVeroj-ative not V c%«#
rn the Execiijive, indiivencimfejffdfy vetiid in
artother appnVtmeiit.
ill cxeicif.ng the Conftitutiona! power of
deciding a question of war, the Lo.'iflaiint
ought to be as free to decide, according to iis
own fcnfe' of the public good, on ore tide »<
on the other fide. Had the Proclamation
prejudged the question on either fide, ar.d t, ro .
claimed its dcc'fion to the acrid; the Lcgiflature
instead of being as fiee as it ought, might hi
thrown under the dilemma, of either lacri
ficing its judgment to that of the Kxccqm t ;
or by .oppufiog the Executive judgment, t ,f
producing a relation between the two deiia. t
merttsy extremely delicate among ohrlelves
and oi the worlt influence on the national
character and intereiis abroad ; a variance of
this nature, it wiil leadily be perSeived
would be very different from a want of con.
formity to the meie rccommmddtions of rhq Ex
ecutive, in the meafnres adpptcd by the Lei
giilature.
It does not appear that ftch a Proclama
tion could have even pleaded ant call, Jinn
either of the parties at war withY arc?' for
an explanation of the light in which the guar
ty was viewed—whiMl, indeed, no polit v*
indication whatever was given ofhoftile pur
poles, ir is not conceived, that any power
could have decently made fiach an applicar
t.on—or it they had, that a Proclamation
would have been either a fatisfaaory, „ r an
honorable an Aver. It could not have been
(atisfaftory, if serious apprehensions w lv
tertained, because it wou'd not have pro.
cee.ded from that aut:.o tv which ;,ione
could definitely pronounce the will of tlid
United States on the lobjert. It *ould not
have been honorable, becaiife a private <li.
ptomatic anfwei only is due to a priva te di
plomatic application ; and to hwe done lb
much more, would have marked a pnfiiani
mity and want of dignity in the Execut.v*
Mag'itrate.
Dvt wnether th? Executive whs at was not
applied ti>, or whatever weight,be allowed i«
that cirenmftance, ic ought never to be pre.
fuinrd, that the Executive would so abruptivf
lo puftl'ulvj and so foleinnly, piocecd to t ,; f.
claim a f'enle of the raff,, which the oiler
party might consider and w (h to lupport l.y
difcaflion as its tine and reafbnable import.
It." afliedy indeen, in a tone that fiufficienfly
difflays the spirit in which th; w iter ton
ftr.es both the Proclamation and the rreat v.
" 3d the Executive Hand in need of tl,« hV-
gicof a foreign agent to enlighten it aj to the
duties or the inteiefts of the nation ;„r Was it
botnd to »fk his content to a flep which ap.
pciredtn itlelf confident with the former,
an< conducive to the latter ? The sense of
treaties was to N- learnt fri.ni the treaties
tbtnifelves." Ha<! he coufulted tis Vattel,
4**, iTfk r»v
■>* K' *? 2-i J^:!.-;
iV.-t'O.-if &■"■J. V-,v J
of his animosity to Frn*"e*, t**nu'd
have difcovercd that however humiliating It
might be to wait for a foreign l>£tc, to atlift
the interpretation of an a& depending on the
national authority alone, yet in the cafe of a
treaty, tfhich is as much the treaty of a
foreign nation, as it is ours ; and in which
foreign duties and rights are as much involv
ed v as ours, the sense of though to
be learnt from the treaty itfeJf, is to be e
qually learned by both parties to it. Neither
of them can have a right more than tfryc other,
to fay what a particular article means \ and
where there h equality without a judge con
futation k as cotjfiftent; with dignity as it is
conducive to harmony and friendjhip, let
Vattel however be heard on the ftibjeft.
** The third general maxim, or principle,
on the fubjeft of interpretation [of Treaties]
is i ii That neither the one nor the other of the in
-4* t ere fled or contracting pou-crs has a right to in~
lerpretiht ad or treaty qt its pleasure. For it
li you are at liberty to give my promise
what sense you please, you will have the
power of obliging me to db Whatever you
have a mind, contrary to my 'intention,
" and bevond my real engagement: and re
-44 ciprocaJlv, Jf l am allowed to explain my pro
%t mifes as J pkafe, I may render them yain and U
* Ivftve, h giving them a si*f e W te different from
44 that in which they were prefenled to yon, and in
* which you nrnjl have taken them in accepting
44 them:'' Vat. B. II- c. vii. §• 265.
The writer ought to have been particular
ly sensible of the improbability that a precipi
tate and cxparte decision of the question arif
-ing under the guaranty, could have beenjn
tended by the proclamation. He had but just
gone through his undertaking, to prove that
the article of guaranty like the reft of the
treaty is defenfive, not offenfive. He had ex
amined his books and retailed his quotations,
to shew that the criterion between the two
kinds of war is the ciromittance of priority
in the attack. . He could'not therefore but
know, that according to his own principles,
the question whether the United States, were
under an.obligation or not to take part in the
war, was a quejlion offa£t whether the firft at*
tack was made by France or her enemies.
And to decide a question ol fact, as well as,
of principle, without waiting sot such repre
sentations and proofs, as the absent and in
terested party might have to produce would
have been a proceeding contrary to the or
dinary maxims of justice, and requiring cir
cumstances of a very peculiar nature, to war
rant' it, towards any nation. Towards a na
tion which could verify her claim to more
than bare justice by our own reiterated and
formal and which must in
her present fmgular and interesting situation
have a peculiar sensibility to marks of our
friend (hip or alienation, the impropriety of
such a proceeding would be infinitely increas
ed, and in the fame proportion the improba
bility of its having taken place.
There are yeafohs of another fort which
K'Quld have been a bar to such a proceeding.
It would have been as impolitic as it would
have been unfair and unkind-
If France meant not to insist on the gar
ran tyj the metifure, without g ving any pre
sent advantage, would have deprived the
'United States of afuttire claim which may be
of importance to their fafety. It would have
inspired France with jealousies of a secret bi
as in this country toward some of her ene
mies, which might have left in her breast a
spirit of contempt and revenge of which the
effects rtiight be felt in various ways. It
must in particular have tended to inspire her
with a disinclination to feed our commerce
with those important advantages which it al
ready enjoys, and those more important ones,
which it anxiously contemplates. The nation
that consumes more of the fruits of our foil
than any other nation in the world, and flip-"
plies the only foreign raw material of exten
five use in the United States would not be
unnecefTarily p< ovoked by those who under
stand the , public interest, and make it their
study, as it is their interest to advance it.
I am aware that the common-place remaik
will be interposed, that, " commercial privi
leges are not worth having, when not fecurcd
by mutual interest; and never worth purchasing,
bccaufe they will grow of themselves oat ol a
mutual interest." Prudent men, who do not
fuffer their reason to be misled by their preju
dices will view the fubjeft in a juftcr light.
They will rtfle£V, that if commercial privileges
are not worth purehafing, they are worth hav
ing without purchase ; that in the commerce of
a great na'ion, there are valuable privileges
which may be granted or not granted, or grant
ed either to this or that country, without any
fenfibJc influence on the interest of the nation
itfelf ; that the friendly or unfriendly disposi
tion of a country, is always an article of mo
mtnt in the calculations of a comprehensive in
terest I that fomr Sacrifices of interest will be
made to other motives; by nations *s well as
bv individuals, though not with the fame fre
quency, or in the fame pioportions that more
of a diiinterefted conduit or of a coiiaufi found
ed on liberal views of interest, prevails in some
nations than in others, that as far as can be seen
of the influence of the revolution on the genius
' and the policy of France; particularly with "re
gard to the Unttcd States, everv thing is 10 be
hoped by the, latter on this fubj'6l, which one
country can reafrrtiabjy hope from another. In
this point of view a greater error could ndt have
been committed than in a step, that might have
turned the present disposition of France to open
her commerce to us as far as a liberal
tion of her interest would permit, and her
fjiendfhip towards us, and confidence in our
fritndfhip towards her, could prompt, into a
disposition to, shut it as closely us as the
united motives of interest, of distrust, and of
ill-will, coul,d urge her.
On the fuppoikion that France might intend
to claim the guaranty, a hasty and haifh reftfal
before we were alked, on a ground that accu'ed
her of being the aggrr{Tor in the war against e
*ery power in the catalogue of her enemies, and
;n a enfis all her fcnfibility must be alive
».>w/ids ihe Uni'id Siau t, woulfl taavc given e-
Very puffiole lirratafltfn'to a <it pp«»ii-v. mc nl
which motive thai one oation r.ouid let!
towiirdi another and towjidi itjclf, requned to
be allrvia ed lit al* the ciro»uifpc£lion and d«-
iicacv that could be applied the ocdafion.
The fiirucc of the Executive fmcc the accejlioi
of Spain and Portugal to the war againlt France
throws great light on the present dffcuffioo. Had
the proclamation been iftiied id the fenfV, and
for the purpoict ascribed to it, that "is to
a declaration of neutrality, another vyould have
followed, on that event. If it r wfjlj;t he. right and
duty of the Government, that is, xb&JbsJidcntUa
manifeil 10 Great Britain and Hoi.., id ;• and to
the Ame-ican merchants and cititetrt, hit
his disposition, and his views oo.fcfye <jueJ|ion,
whether Uk United were under the circum
fiances ofthe oafe, bound or not, to execute the clauft
of guar'a&ty, and not to leave it uncertain whether tht
Executive aid or did not "believe a Jlat< of neutrality,tg
be confiftcftt with our treaties, flic duty as we|
'as the right prcfcribed a ftmilar manifeitation to
all che; parties concerned after *Spainand Por
tugal had joine4.ihe other maritime enemies o(
France. The opinion of the Executive with re
. fpe£l to a consistency or inconsistency of neutra
lity with treaties in the latter cafe coijld not be
inferred from the proclamation in the former,
because the circumfiances night be different. Tale
ing the proclamation in its propei fei>4V, as ie
minding all concerned, that as the United States
were at prace (thpt state not affiftcd by
foreign wars, and only to be changed by the
legislative authority of the country) the laws of
peace were still obligatory and would be en
forced, and the inference is so obvious and f<i
aoplTcable to .all other cases whatever circum
fiances may distinguish them, that ailot'ur pro
clamation would be unnecclfary. Here is a
new afpe& of 'he whole fubjeit, admonishing
us in the most firiking maoiidr aMjncoof the
danger of the prerogative contended for and the
absurdity of the diftin£linas and arguments eni*
pToyed in its favour. 7t wotild be is impofli
ble in pra6lic«, as it is in theory,to (eparateMi
power of judging and concluding that the oblt
gationsof a ueaty do not impose war from tfiat
of judging and concluding that the obligations
do impose war. In certain cases, silence would
proclaim the latter conclusion, as intelligibly a*
words could do t he-former. The writer indeed
has himfelf abandoned the diftinftion in his
Vrich paper, by declaring expressly that the ob
ject of the proclamation would have beeti de
feated li by leaving it uncertain whether th<
Executive d?d or did not brieve a Hate of neu
trality to be confident with our treaties.
I^ELVIDIUS.
* The writer u betrayed into an acknowledgment
of this in his yth No. where he applies his reasoning
to Spain as we'll as to Great-Britain € id Holland
He had jorgotten that 'Spain was not included in the
proclamation.
Foreign Intelligence.
WATERFORD, (Ireland/May 2.
LAST Tuesday the firft Hone of
the bridge which is to.be buiit
over the river Suir, oppo&te Bridge
ftreet, was laid by Sir John New
port, Bart, in the prelence of a
number of gentlemen, and a vast
concouiTe ot people. On the stone
was fixed a plate of copper, on
which was engraved the following
infeription : •>
In 1793, I
A year rendered (acred to National prosperity
By the extin&iou of Religious Divisions,
The foundation of'this was laid,
JAt the expence of aflocFared Individuals,
Unaided by Parliamentary Grants,'
By Sir John Newport, Bart,
Chairman of their Committee,
Mr. Lemuel Cox, a Native of Boiton,
Architect.
LISBON, June 24.
SQine of your pajiers talk of a
fleet from this country, .WJiich is to
join Lord Howe, at Portsmouth.—
It is true, that there are'a few good
veflels here, which have been late
ly, in some measure, prepared for
sea ; but they are, at present, with
out stores, and have 110 c half their
complement of meri. Lad week
they went over the Bar, and had a
mock engagement, biit soon return
ed ; the bowsprit of one of them
war carried away.
PARI S, June 22.
The wits again begin to ridicble
the new conltituiion. Some call it
the constitution of Bentabole ; others
the extempore constitution ; another
calls it a Table of Matter. Danton
compares it to the thunder, which
is occasioned by clouds of anarchy
heaped upon one another ; and on
a central battery, wbitfft fires in all
directions npon' the afflatus.
It is reported, that 40Revolution
ary Females, of tHe w Society of Fra
ternity, presented themselves on
the 18th inft. at the Club of Corde
liers, to engage them to ifl'ue a re
quest to the feiftions, to order all
the Women at Paris to join them,
Sunday next, in the Champ de Mars,
to swear the death of intriguers, to
guard Paris, and march against the
rebels of La Vendee.
542
NATIONAL CONVENTION
TUESDAT, July 2.
Deputies from the Department of
Core-d'Or appeared at tbe bar, and
(aid, "We are French Moun
taineers. Your long djfcuffioiH tir«
us and all France. You have, how
ever, inade amends by giving us a
constitution, and liberty triumphs.
We profefs obedience to your de
crees."
On the proposition of Lacroix,
the following decree was palled :—
" The National Convention pro
visionally suspends the payment of
all salaries to those who live in the
diftri<sU in a state of infurredtion
against the National Convention,
until they can prove that they are
not concerned in these doings, or
that they retratfl what they have
done."
LONDON, July 16.
Declaration of the French,
Aflembled under tbe command of Gene
ral Gallon, in tbe Departments of
Vendee, Maine, Loire, and Loire
Infericure.
Denounced by the assembly entitling
itfelf the national convention of France,
a3 traitors to our country, and rebels to
its laws, we ought, as our duty, to de
clare to all loyal Frenchmen, and all the
loyalists of Euiope, the motives which
have hitherto diiefted our conduct, the
principles which (hall for the future regu
late it.
When firft we aflembled in February
last, in the defence of our lives, of our
individual fafety, of our religion, of our
libetty, and of our property, thegreatefl:
of crimes was committed—the head bf
Louis XVI. was brought to the fcaf
fold.
From that time, nothing eould be ex
pected from the new order of things that
arose up in France, under the name of
republic, but confufion, robberies, and
anarchy, every day gave birth to a new
faflion ; and if these robbers sometimes
appeared divided among th.emfelves in
opinion and interest, upon two principal
points they terminated their difference,
viz. usurpation and pillaging of property,
maffacreing andimprifoning goodcitizens,
who refufed being accomplices in their
enormities.
For more than three years the rights
of persons and property have und«ngone
in France numerous attempts ; violence
hindered us from the free exercise of the
religion of out fore fathers. But, there
remained to us a King j and though he
was stripped of that part of his authority
so necessary for the maintaining a great
monarchy, we were still in hopes that the
French people would yet acknowledge
their true intercfts, and that order would
be re-eftablilhed without cor.vulfions, and
without violence.
We were deprived of this-lad hope
when we saw our fellow citizens, truly
groaning under the yoke of a small num
ber of factions, but making no effort to
liberate themselves ; struck with conster
nation at viewing our king dragged to
the place of execution ; but keeping si.
lence through terror, and not daring to
arm ourselves to rescue him from the
clutches of his executioners.
Under such dilemmas, what were loyal
fubje&s to do ?—either accomplices or
victims was to be our portion ; but we
would be neither the one or the other ;
we have assembled, we have aimed our
selves, and hitherto Heaven has crowned
our efforts with success.
We are not the aggressors ; our inten
tions are only to defend our persons and
property. As men, we have the righr
to refill oppression ; as possessors of pro
perty, we oppose its devalhtion •, as
Frenchmen, we will hare a king ; as
Christians, we will have the religion of
ourTathers; as citizens, we will have
fixed laws, under cover of which we may
again find peace. In fine, we are weary
of being the sport and vifiims of the
fa&ious.
This is neither the time nor place to
declaim on political opinions 5 we have
not the smallest pretension to govern
France. Individual fafetv, property,
liberty of religious worship, and a king,
are what we demand j for that it is we
contend ; and we will not disarm till we
have obtained them. .
We invite all people', whatever may be
their political or religious opinious opini
ons, to unite themfelvea quickly to us ;
it is their moll prefiihg interest ; for every
man who is not a robber is oh our fide ;
if any citiz;n has not a hed |^op er »y t
defend, all have at le:tft theiY p<:r rnn.
property, (and peifonal liberty it <ham<
fuliy violated by our enemies) all are in
tetefted in enjoying in peace, the fruit o
their labor and industry ; all are intereit
ed in living securely at home, and to hav.
their house? for an asylum—this is wha
we demand for our fellow citizens, a:
well as for ouifelves.
It is the intcreft of all the powers ol
Europe to sustain arid protest us ; sot
our,enemies arc such at withed to over,
throw, every king and 1 every throne. •
It is the interest of all people to fend
us help : for our enemie# wished to dif<
turb the peace, and overturn the laws ol
all people.
Our enemies unmercifully punish with
death those of us they make prisoners ol
war. We declare, before all Europe and
France, that we have not used, and wt
will not use, in this respeCt, death foi
death. The cause which we defend ii
that of justice and humanity ; and w<
will never dishonor it by a&tof barbarity.
They threaten to cruih ui by number!
and the factious announce, that thej
will attack us with all the forces they car
aflemble. We await them determined
for we have on our fide our courage, anc
the julf?e of our cause. We have th<
God of armies, who will fight for us'!
the God of Clovis and of St. Louis
who did not permit formerly the Frencl
monarchy to be overthrown, and wh<
miraculouily fullained the throne of 001
kings, almoftdeltroyed under Charles V
under Charles VII. and under Henn
IV.
At lad, if, by one of those ltrokes o
providence, which the human mind car
neither calculate nor forefee, we are o»er
come in the defence of a cause so jull, wt
shall at leait have the glory of dying, ij
fighting for our God, for our king, anc
for our country,—thousands will arn
themselves sooner or later to avenge us
for the Funch pepple will at last be wearj
of their heavy yoke of anarchy ; anc
even our defeat itfelf will serve to hafter
the fall of our tyrants. JJefides, le
them not believe us so weak as we ar<
said to be at the bar, and at the tribuni
of their aflembly, where they place u
between vidtory and punidiment ; so
they are always strong, who have.qo o
ther alternative but to conquer or die.
(Signed) GASTON,
For myfelf and my bran
fellow soldiers.
General Quarters, near"!
Fontenay la Comte >
25th May, 1793. J
SPANISH STATE PAPER.
Proclamation of Gen. Ricandbs, com
manding the Spanish Array againfl
France. -
THE army over which the Kinpr ha
been pleased to give me the command
doe* not enter France with boftile inten
tions. His Majesty, a conftant'friend o
the French monarchy and nations, onlj
ptopofcs himfelf to deliver her from tk<
horrid depotifm with, which she .is op
prefTed and tyrannized by an unlawful,
usurping, and unruled assembly, who
after having fubverced and trod upon rc
ligion, laws, and the fafety of public aw
individual property, after having com
mitted and ordained, in cold blood, thi
mod unheard-of murders ot» the moll re
fpe&able and innocent pcrfons, have fil
led the meafureof their iniquities*by (htd
ding the blood of their lawful and well
meaning sovereign.
,For these reasons, the king 6rders mt
to declare, as I do declare in his name
that all good Frenchmen who, abhorring
the erroneous and perverse maxims that
have produced, and are productive of ar
overthrow, as fatal as it is disastrous, (hal
declare themselves to be attached to then
monaich, will find in his majesty everj
kind of protection and support ; that the
troopk whom I have the honor to com
mand, shall obfetve the most fcrupuloui
discipline, and shall in no manner attach
the fafety nor property of any body
Tiiat the speediest justice (hall be done tc
every Frenchman, who (hall make a well
founded complaint against any individua
whatever of the Spanish army, and that
the troops shall pay ready money foi
whatevei is fold or furnifhed to them
On the contrary, all those wfl be perfe
cted who persevering in Jalfe principles
or deluded by the attra&fon of an illufor)
liberty, shall fide with the pietended Nati
onal Convention, and a& against thecWe, either m a hoKk
fdvice, or by fugpelttons ; *nd all such
r [1 be treated as rebels and traitais, to
"l.glon, their fove«ig- » * attm coan
try
Signed RICANDOS.
United States.
BOSTON, Sept. 9.
•Capt. T- Freeman, from Bayonne,
ta France, but last from St. Ande
wtitrc Ae was carried by a Spa
„Yh privateer, and which he left
last of July—informs that the
ipaniards do but very little in the
«ar, and do not appear disposed to
ril'que much. While he was at Bay
onne, it was expeifted for 19 days,
that the Spaniards were meditating
an attack upon that place s but
when he came away it was report
that they were all called off for an
other expedition.
On Friday last arrived and an
chored below the Cattle, the French
privateer Marseilles, ot 22 guns,
Citizen L'Ecuyer, Commander ; (lie
saluted the Castle wilh 15 guns,
which were returned by that fortrefs.
The Marseilles was fitted out ar
Havre de Grace, and has heen cruis
ing off ilie Wellern Islands about
fix weeks : She has been remarka
bly fortunate, having taken eight
fonie of them are very rich.
The following is a lilt of them, as
handed us by a correfyondent.
The sloop Young Gerard, from
Cnracoa to Rotterdam, arrived at
BotVon.
The schooner Concordia, from
Demarara, for Amsterdam, frtJt for
the port of Boston, not yet arrived.
The English privateer, {hip Good
Intent, of I 7 guns, arrived at New-
Y oil k.
The (hip Harpooner, copper bot
tomed, fr&m Brazil for Bristol, ar
riv'td at Boston.
The brig Chance, from Lilbon for
Newfoundland, with fait, given to
the prisoners, to go wherever they
pleased.
The brig Brothers, from Cadiz,
for Newfoundland, with fait, burn
ed at sea- ...
The ffiip , fi"om New-York,
for Newfoundland, with flour and
bread, sent for Boston, iince arriv
ed at Portfmontb.
The American fliip Prefident.from
Hull in J£ngland, for Baltimore,
with Englilh goods, Bfitifh proper
ty, arrived at Boston, inH since re
teafed to the oj iginaf owners.
/'from M* GENERAL ADVERTISER
Trom Dr. E. StepHenj
to
Dr. Jobn Redman.
s 1 R, _
TN compliance with the requeil
of the learned body over whom you
preftde, 1 now chearfully tranl'mit
them a few brief and detached ob
fervarions on the nature and treat
ment of the present malignant and
disorder which prevails in this
rata'
city. Their humane anxiety to af
ceitain the real character of the
complaint, and to eftabliih feme
fixed and steady mode of cure for
it, are frefh proofs of their benevo
lence, and clearly evinces that dif
inteietfed liberality for whi,ch they
are so eminently diftingtiifhed. I
only regret that their application
to me. has approached so near the
■moment of my departure that I have
fiot futficient leisure to elucidate
the fubjet r t so amply and fatislaifto
rilj as the importance of it de
serves. imperfe<fl however as the
enclofeit Iketch may be, 1 can with
truth allure them, that it is the re
sult of extenftVe experience and ac
curate oblervation, and that it is
dilated solely by a philanthropic
defile of checking the ravages of
the difeafe,and ol restoring tranqui
lity to the dejecfted' minds of the
public.
This disorder arises from conta
gion. Its approaches are flow and
insidious at the commencement. It
is Ulbered in with a flight degree of
languor and lassitude, iofs of appe
tite, reftleflnefs and ditlurbed
dreams* depreflion of spirits, and
a want of inclination to perform
oicHnary occupations of life.
The pnrient does not eonfider him
felf fufficiently lick to complain or
call in the aififtance of a pliyGcian.
His feelings are rather unpleasant
than alarming. This train of I'ymp
toms continue for two. or three
days, and if not removed by timely
aid, is succeeded by a sharp pain in
the head, anxiety and foppreffion
about ths praECordia, a febrile pitlfe,
great prostration of strength, and a
variety of other morbid phenome
na which are too well known to the
faculty to need description. In the
flrft stage ps the disorder a little at
tention and the well directed ef
forts of a Ikilful practitioner may
generally prove fuccefsful in miti
gating the violence of future symp
toms and preventing either much
danger or long confinement. At
the firft appearance of languor, las
situde, &c. especially if the patient
has been nearr the source of conta
gion, he should carefully avoid all
fatigue of body and application of
mind. Every thing tliat can tend
to debilitate fhauld be carefully
guarded against. He should remain
at perfetft reft. His diet should be
fuller and more cordial than nfual,
and a few extraordinary glalles of
old Madeira may be allowed. He
should take the cold bath every
morning, ana if his sleep is disturb
ed, a gentle opiate combined with
a few graiiis of the volatile salts
and some grateful aromatic may be
administered at night. A few doses
of good genuine bark may be taken
in powder during ti""?~day; and if
the stomach should be affected with
nanfca, a strong decotftion of the
fame may be fubftitnted. Great
care should be taken to keep the
mind of the patient calm and se
rene ; neither to terrify it with
needless apprehension, nor alarm
it by the melancholy relation ofthe
spreading mortality which sur
rounds him. It is at this stage of
the complaint that the physician
may lay the foundation of future
success : but unfortunately it is alf'o
the period of the disease which is
commonly too much negle<sted by
the patient. Gentlemen of the fa
culty are rarely called in until the
symptoms a.re more alarming and
rlangeroos. But it is a matter of
material confeqnence to the patient
to know that by a little attention
at the commencement, and by care
fully watching the approaches of
the disease, even though it should
be contra<ffed, it may be rendered
mild, and may terminate favour
ably. It is also of equal confe
quenjce for practitioners to attend
to these particulars in laying down
the prophylaxis to their patients.
When the disorder has gained
ground and become violent, and
when the danger is imminent, the
moll .unremitted exertions fbould
be made by the physician to miti
gate the symptoms The nausea
and vomiting maj be relieved by
an infnfion of camomile flowers gi
ven frequently until the llomach is
fufficiently emptied of all crude
rnaiter. SmalL doses of a cordial
mixture com poled of the oil of pep
permint and compound spirits of la
vender may then be taken until the
sickness aba.es. If notwithstanding
the irritability of the stomach
ftionld itill continue, recourse must
be instantly had to the cold bath
which must Be used every two hours
or oftener if the urgency of the
symptoms should require it. After
each immersion a giaft of old Ma
deira, or a little brandy burnt with
cinnamon, may be adminiflered.
Flannel cloths wrung out of spirits
or wine impregnated with spices.
may be applied to the pit of the
stomach and changed frequently.
An injedtion containing an ounce
of powdered bark mixed with thin
falep or sago, to which a teafpoon
fui of laudanum has been added,
should be administered. These in
jections may be continued every
two or three hours omitting the
laudanum after the firft. As soon
as the stomach can bear the medi
cines and nourishment, the bark
may be administered in small doses ;
as much Madeira wine may be gi
ven as the patient can bear with
out afTe&ing his head or heating
hint too much. All emetics and ca
thartics should be avoided. If the
543
bowels fh i oold not be fufficiently o
peit, a fixative clyster may be ne
cellary, or 3 I,'w grains of powder
ed rhubarb added to each dose of
bark until the desired eftedt is pro
duced. If diarrhcea should prevail
it mult be checked by Itarch injec
tions blended with laudanum by
the tin&ura e kino yaponica,< or a
decotftion of carcarilla, All drastic
cathartics do injury when the dis
ease is in its advanced stage. If stu
por, coma, or'delirium should come
on, a large bltfler should be applied
between tite shoulders, and small
•ones to the thighs ; stimulant cata
plafins should also be applied to the
soles of the feet. When haemor
rhages appear, the elixir of vitriol
may be administered in'conjunjStion
with the bark, but great care should
be taken to prevent it from affedt
ingthe bowels. If the pulse should
be much funk, the proftiation of
strength great, and fubfulius tendi
num take place, small doses of the
liquor mineralis Hoffinatii, or even
vitriolic sether diluted with water
may be given. Musk and camphor
in this stage of the disease have
likewise proved effectual. Upon
the whole, Sir, I may fuin up this
hasty outline by inculcating the use
of the tonic plan in its future ex
tent, and by warning against the
ill consequences of debilitating ap
plications, or profufe evacuations
in every period of the disease : the
cold bath, bark and wine, a spa
cious well ventilated room, fre
quent change of bed and body li
nen, and attention to reft and qui
et, if properly persevered in, will,
in mod cases, prove fuccefsful, and
flrip this formidable disease of its
malignity, its terror, and its dan
ger- '
The description I have given of
this difdrder, and the utility of.the
plan of cure 1 have laid down, are
confirmed by experience, and coin
cides with reafctn and the
soundest theory ; the cause produc
ing the effedt is a strong debjliiat
ing power; the fympjonis occasion
ed by its appjication, all indicate
extreme debility in the animal
fuiMfttpns, and great derangement
of the-nervous fyfiem ; ought not
therefore the remedies adapted to
'this ci'rtrpiaint, to be Cordial, stimu
lating and tonic ? Should not vio
lent evacuations which evidently
weaken and lelax, be avoided ?
These are hints which would be
presumptuous, and afl'uniing in me
to extend or dwell upon ; to gen
tlemen of fueh eminence as your
colleagues it is luflicient to point
out what reason and experience con
jointly suggest to me ; Their supe
rior judgment will, 1 am convinced
supply every deficiency and enable
them to pursue that plan which is
best adapted to public utility, and
the effedtOal removal of the present
dreadful malady. If the few ob
lervations 1 have suggested be ser
viceable to the inhabitants of
this city, my intentions will be ful
ly answered, and my feelings com
-1 gratified.
| 1 have the honor to be, Sir,
Your molt obedient servant,
EDWARD STEVENS.
John Rf.dman, M. D Ptcfidcnt
of the Lollcge of Phyjicians.
Philadelphia, Sept. i 8.
The fliip Manchester, captain Clay, on
Tuesday night the ixthinftant, about
half pall ten, run aground on Turtle
Gut, two leagues north of Cape May.
The Manchelter left Liverpool the
23d of July, and the Downs the 27th,
brought two cabin and four steerage pas
sengers; (he makes no water in her pre
sent situation, and it is supposed that (he
will be got off without much trouble ; (he
was running at the rate of eight knots an
hour when (he ftruclc ; at high water (he
has twelve feet, and (he draws but thir
teen art(i an half; ouj informant spoke 4
(hallops and sent them to her relief. Her
rudder was,unhung.
The Synod of Philadelphia, met at Ybrk-
Town oo she 28th day of August, 1793; una
nimously agreed in appointing Thnrlday the
24th day of October next to be observed as a
day of fading and prayer by all the Cburchei
under their care.
Wednesday the 28th nit. the anniversary
commencement of Dartmouth College
celebrated at Hanovtr, New-Hproplbirr,
the decree ofßacMor of art* rvas con
ferred on thirty-nine youn&r gentlemen.
The anniversary commencement of Rhodr-
Island College was celebrated at Providence
the 4th inft. when the degree of Bachelor as»
A*"ts was conferred on twelve and that of
Master of Arts on feve» gentlemen.—The
honorary degree of Master it* the Arts was
conferred on Nicholas Tillinghaft, jon. Esq.
(> fTaunton; the Rev. Archibald M*Clean,
of Edinburgh ; Rev. William of
Lynn, (England) Rev. James Dore, of Lon.
don; Rev. John Sutcliff, of Olney (England)
and Rev. Samuel Pearce of Biciningham
(England.)
The Degree of Doctor of Laws was con
ferred on the Hon. David Hvweil y of Provi
dence ; Rev. Joseph Pricjlley of Birmingham
(England)and Rev. Morgan Joncs y of ijam
merfmith (England)
The Commiflioners who set out froirt Phila*
delphia the last of April, to hold a treaty, for
the purpose of making peace with the Western
Indians, have returned without success. T.
Picketing, Esq. arrived in this city last Friday
and ftfcr. Randolph has since reached German
town. They came back by the way of Gene
fee, Albany and New-York. General Lincoln
took another route, and, on account of thefick
nefs prevalent in this city-, wiil probably return
directly to his home in Massachusetts.
We understand that the hostile Indians re
fufed to make peace, unless the United States
would remove all their lettlers (amounting to
several thousands) from over the Ohio, and
make that river the boundary between them.—-
This is obviously inadmillible.
It would he unpardonable not to mention
in terms of the highest applaufc the heroism
of two gentlemen of this city, who have vo
luntarily undertaken the fnperindance of the
Hospital at JSufh-Hill.
These gentlemen give their personal at
tendance daily at the above place-—and we
are happy to be well informed that the exer
tions ofMr. Stephen Gerard and Mr. Peter
Helm, have produced a most favorable change
in the face of affairs in the Hospital.
AT a meeting of the citizens of New-York
at the Tontine Coffee-Houfe, the i»rh M Sep #
tember, 1793 —among other resolutions adopt
ed to prevent the introduction of infectious dif- a
orders into the city, they have agreed to the fol
lowing :—
To check as much as coflibTe the intercom He
by the stages, and for this purpose to appoint a
committee to acquaint the proprietors of the
different loutherrt stages, that it is the earned
wi(h of the inhabitants of this city, that their
carriages and boars d> not pals while the infec
tion prevails in Philadelphia—to direst all fer
ry-boats to land their paflcngers at the proper
wharves only, and to have a prudent perlon at
each to examine the paiTengers.
Rv a Proclamation ot the Governor of New-
York of the 13th in(t.—all vefTels bound from
Philadelphia to that ciry, arc to perform qua
rantine.
Dr. -RUSH is fatisfied, from fevrral recent
observations, that the loss of fix or eight ounces
of blood, in pcrfons who are plcthor c, in addi
tion to a milk and vegetable diet, w.ll have s
great efFe& in preventing an attack of the pre
sent Epidemic, or in rendering it a mild disease.
Sept. 16.
Died—Mr. Thomas P. Anthony—and M
Vincent M. Pelofi, merchants of this city.
$3* THE author of the Speculate
signed Helvidius, is informed, that fho
' any additional numbers be sot warded t-o
Editor during the fufpe.ifiou of the Gaze
the United States, they will be forwarded t
Editor of the Mail, for publicat on.
To the SUBSCRIBERS poR thisGAZ
7. H E EDITOR
FINDS himfej under the painful nece
pending the publication of the Gazette
States, for a*Jhort time.-— 4s soon a
tioni occafonedbythe dijlrefjing fxckn
vails are removed, and bujmtfs return
ed channels, the publication will be r
The Editor again renews his ear
for payment of arrearages-—and u
SubjcriherSy that on the receipt of
at this dijlreffing crifs, (Upends tl
family, and his abiiity to disc
debts incurred in prosecuting tht
persuaded that his requefl will m
meerly words of course. r
A few Subscribers are in ac {
—they are ajfured, that their J
ther balanced when the pub/icatt
sums found due, returned, at tk
The Editor expects to remain
Letters enclosing remittances there
him by Pofl, as usual, will get to h
To the Subscribers
ENCYCLOP
Thomas dObson brg«
•"Ail grateful acknowledge
jril (oppoitand enepuragfmcnt'
. He tak« the rarlieft, opporrorn
'them, that notwithstanding the !
Joined, by having (lii PritiA
down in the dreadfol fire of
ing, fi> much <rf hi«
' ed, tbat with tnc aififtance of
;Typea he ha« purchased, wfc'
■ jttft imported for hi» C"
which doe* tfonor tf
■ to pan with, the p/
will be re-commer
, he hope* to (hew.
1 bv the continoec'
Pnjladclphia,
4^
v*
' ' T-'
tromtbt UvYAI. UitK/.IK AMtHICAI*
'
. i.
» { Awitvd C'JI St. Cltf:X-J
ful>fcHb;r having met witlj
the misfortune to ;c total;)'
shipwrecked, on the 12th day of
Kebroary latf, in ihe bay of Boft n,
culled Cohallet, <<n a ualied rock,
near a place named Brulb-Ifland ;
where he with his crew was' IVr 36
hours exposed to a most severe gale
witb frolt and a thick snow, through
which they could not bedifcernecl ;
but as soon as the thick clouds be
gan to "tifpeife, they inftmitly, to
their great joy, oblerVed in 1 before
noon, the people on fhoreendeavor
itig to come out to them with boats,
in order to lave theui, though the
sea run so high t hat their boms were
thrice filled with water, and one of
the boats (battered, w herfby fix of
the hands were nearly lolt. Not
withllanding this, ihe feeling peo
ple on the shore did keep up their
Ipiriis, and the Parfou tbete, named
Mr. Shaw, then pi'elent, encouraged
them, by addrefiiitg them ;his: —
•• l\ly friends 1 luted not to remind
you us the fervids, we, as human beings,
ewe one to another; being jutly con
vinced of your good dtfpofed minds, but
this is an extraordinary cafe, in which
we Jnujl Jhev.') ourfl-jes ■ there are the
lives of twenty men in quejlion, to be
saved. who will, mojl certainly , be fro
zen dead in less than an hour ; come,
my friends, 1 11 ent:r the boat Jtr one
/nan, although I am a bad mariner"—
and alj the re It followed theßever
end joyfully ; they" took us off the
rock, made t heir home, ours, attend -
ed us in our sickness, and carefully
saved what they could from the (hip
and cargo, even to trifles, as watches,
buckles, buttons, spoons, with other
gold and silver ware, belonging to
tlie fubferiber, which they delivered
him every night, coming iheir
work. The probity of these Gran
gers, affifling us in our diltrefs, 1
cannot express less in retaliation,
but by my wa.mefl: and fi.ncerelt
'hanks, voluntarily acknowledging,
-at the land poffefled by such indi
iuals, is happv, and the unfortu
r- man drove to ttieir ihore, can
lnr fall in t|je hands of upright
men. This I think incum-
U 011 me to publifli.
H. P. KLEIN.
"Jutland, 1 793,
-M -; —————
Kt ngston (Jam.) Aug. 2.
the Printer of the Kingflon Daily
A'ivf tifer.
1 Admiralty Office, Kingjlon, )
July 21, 1793- >
c \3 ESTLE ft tN ,
to publish the cn.clofed
w , t . as the speediest notification
rendiake of his honour the Lieu
whicViovernor's inftrutflions, di
tbatc» 0 t, e given by rue to. the
than at, v. .. < n .
plies t U ers P ,lvate armed (hips
five use ~ et' f''°tn this office.
unneceirijentlemen,
stand the very obedient fervanr,
study, asiju. Wai.ker, Dep. Ree.
I am aw, ' r b
will be in.
leges are nJ u !/- 2 7j »793
by mutual irv
bcoufe they ;fire of bis honour the
mutual interQveriior, that in the
(uffer their re. gj ve|l j„ f ulu , eto
dice» will vi, &
They will f.fl.vateers, they may be,
are not wjouh»l terms, forbid rifling
ing without pt, pafTengers or
4 i?'i. a< as may fall in
which rmiy be d J
ed either to ttfh proceedings bpi 11 g
fen fib are by no
itfelf i thai the U) j, e fautftioned by
tion of a count. gran(ed ' b ho
mtnt in Ihe c** ■*? , J
tereft: that 01)1 > 10 Pirate:
made to othci e is determined, b<
by individual 0 dil'couiuenance am
quenry, or ir
of a riifmtere; T
ed onl,bc, a r o » our lobe » S'r
nati.nsth.n tt obedient servant,
of the iiifliiin W. Aw> S ec
' » nd ,he P° ;,c /Reg. Ct. Ad.
gard to 12 '
hoped by th <
country can "OKCrS OtJIICC)
this point o» t| . llr „ ti New .y o , k .
been io copfii.e h|nifi:li
turned .he ASJ & SALE o,
*" cp f m^, c 'lMlS^loN,be i . s leave «,(,!.
t° n An,' istriendmnd olheis. u< th«
friendinip tov ■ .
friendOl, D **'!l P
disposition ,0 Ol.it ! may
united motives of tn.ei th ' W utm °« hd«.
ill-will, could uige her.
On the fuppoikionth!'
to claim the guaranty, ah' S- ' 'f r '
before we were afkt d, on &VL&LL fciK
her of being the aggrt ITor
in »h#ratalo£Tl
To be Sold
il «'
.< r y it iv a rt: s.i le,
A Valuable Lot of 16
Acres »>i i, \' D. lyir*«j ott \he rud irad
i«lg lujfii "ivi i'ii 10 1 r«rn on, i V -rni.es from
Piif i-cii)!. ; *'nn -j i?il- y ill(i | h£ k.-fioulc, au<-
no-j|. iind c*i;r Utiiug ft-ram
of Water ipnn nj iluougit. the fame; a
dv-rli r.tih ait efttty iwn
on tiie lower ;hre oil ihuupy-i II >>r ;
a 1 l ch<n adjo.nuiy. w» t |> a cellat uod#r ( thc
whole, ud a wull of water 1} tfce door; »lfo,
170 hearing jpple-trrej, aqd.two or th-ee •• »
of watered meadow. There will he an ind.f-
I'irwble Any person inclining to
i<u>cM»\ [iff# know the let pi-. ot laic l<v ap
plying ic.thv Subscriber on ibe dich ilrs.-,
MATTHEW CLARKE.
Sephwler 14,1793 (tp 4 w)
George-Town,
September 9, 1 793-
THE Commifiioncr* of the fedeial B..Minings
having received onlv one or two days pre
vious lU th'c dine MfJpointed-tor the commenc,-.
in <h of the drawing of the, H'u/ktngton Hotel
Lottery. il.at a nuniocr ot Tickets
which had tu-en di-ppfhcd f<vr Tale in the hands
ot oeifons at a d -lbnee, v. ere IhlJ Unfold ; and
there bemg no fund ttiaUliihcd to pay any loss
thai might In (piia'ned b.y keep :i£ ihefe. tickets
1 lie ,11 fl; o! the City, they Coio?n«fl}onjL"is)
detcrtqyicd to defer the drawing until ihcy
con!d be all fohi. *
b
Under these circumftancvs, a number of gen
tlerpr«» <rf ti-.»s to>vn, and the City of Washing
ton, formed rhenjfelves into a company, and
• ook upon ihemfeiyes all the tickets remaining
on hand, on the express condition agreed on by
tie Comnuflioocrs, that the drawing of the
Lottery Ihou.'d absolutely commence
Mijftmt, anri bccQnlioued wttliouc interruption.
The SuOlcrihers haye been. appointed a com
mittee to mat -. o the dotitcns of tfti's cl mpanv,
; which was formed on public, not pfivwic mo
t lives-And in purluance of rheir initrutkions,
.iiey uo* jufoccn. the public; that Tickets will
be depomecl- with the following gentlemen :
G. Scoit, Baltimore I'own j J. Djvidfon,
Annapolis; D. Crawford, Upper Mailhoio';
b. Lowndes, Bl?.i 4 .eniburg; B. Turner, Port
tobacco ; J. W.lJcinfon, Calvert County ; J.
Fonwtck, St. Mary's County ; G. Mur'dock,
Frederick 'lown; H. Clagete, Hager'& Town ;
M. Watifbg, GeorgeTown ; W. Hot bei t, Alex
andria; W. ThumpUm, Colchetier ; J. Muf
ehent. Dumfries.; R,. Jfntton, Frederttkiburg ;
1. j Caiupbejl artq Wnaier,
i J e ; S.iin. Love, Newgate—
Who wifi fc4l rfir fame until Saiutday the 2lft
inft. at the original price of 7 dollars.
Ifp contrary u> the exp; of the com
pany, ~>y ol ti»-n remain unfold
when the drawVng a mreflaiy at
tention to feye tfiemwfvv* from loft, will com
pel them to advantage of the rife in price,
vvniCM will cenaitily take place.
.. . B. STpDDIORT,
]. MASON,
J. M. I.TXC.AN.
w. TV A R i \ G,
f (
1 . I. l'
; - t ,Y r,,i ' TvBETBH. •
! la
,tn« P:i(J.pttiya of cacp of tfic ptuicipal t»wqs
! on ihe > eb«tSn«M7irQ&c*faw lift <»f each day,*s
|dtawiiig pirns, wilfhr
: e< Wt»»"fl4 that no out
ma y be imtjoled ,©jib* ifljt take <« plit«h»f« of
drawnHicWts during the drawing.
iOA S<Ale, EY
f . ;..M A T JH.JE-W'..C-iA R E-Y,
I "h'^is«*.• • Mjikct.ftreit, ;
Hr%E- • fWji,;.
.1 : ' domituWfineiit'lO JahiisrV, 9787;' to! fS '•<
lertninliioivm':BL<Jciinbei r , i«§i, >iitwflvr : Va- '
a I*4 lejocfedj liiiwi.
>•
L V' e T'i 0 " •>( tb f. of thc-UnUpslr
Jsta<ts, tW a« iyllowY:
i -*l A Wnifcom has met
jwrtji fay.» : Vith<uoi«rfe] *p
!ptqba|io(j| tfvnijcowMieni jydgts - ¥ for I at„ ;<j
w* ii>lVetu4«ui&-
jcalcaMtdw tiifirmiitaYi (finical, agricJtuiaJ,'
jp<Yilof*{>iiiC4i, ajxl ;r
Tout thar it has bepit unijormh can&uttxduxiklafie,
>attcntion t andp/ppriflj;.' J, I to. i Mivpojum
lh« n»orc in»med»«itc de
figft of refciiifyr public document* fiaoi obJi
'vion—l will venture to prononncc, 2s ray fen
;timcnt, THAT A M(Vr F. USErt'l literary
( p f;' A wHAJ K£ v , li.CJi.ltf uMD (IfAKKU -JK
CA, Of OIIC More D€i 5L% V i't» c Of py
j l jß £ |" cc ; AC&^EN-r."'
TO- THfi-PHfiLIC.
(jL3 IHE hoi to r prvpofes to continue the
publication oj the G*ztLT'y,t qr the United
,STATEs,>r dijlant circu/atjov, after the jiijl 0 f
\Decetncer next. on tfie ftjUvwinp ten/is y viz.
It Jhallb-e publjhed on Wednesday's qnd
Satt rd a ys, on paper oj the Medium Jize —which
ii i«rgcr tlian the p-njlvt.
77it priUy Three Dollars per ani)uip,exqlwfive
of pottage.
Suifcnptions to he received by the refpe&ive Pcji-
Myter, tH,,oU£iiMt Uu.UtiU J or/nth other felons
as may fee .firopa to colled them.
7he papers to be forwai ded b\ pojl.tuice a tctck,
mpadetsto contain ieji than six papers- and ro
litbfcrtpHons to be riuivtd for a lefi term than h*
months. Payments to b( Conjtand) Jix months in
■ advance. 'I went} pei Cf nt. jiom the prut
'"r.i'C ** * * IT+ *' u '' "Uoiced t u thoje b,h o col-
Jed and Jor uiafd thcfitycription money, jree of ex
f pe'je, injull oj all thaiges Jor then trouble in the
; bujitiejt.
1 hepubhcition h'Weonfa■ n a\ vfual, a variety of
I* "g'"l epys-Jo/eijn and dom,Jl,c inWUgeiu,
' and a fnmrnary of the prtsctedines of the LeeUtaiusc
>of the Union, Qic. Si .-litert,on zoill be paid
tv dijpaichipg the paper 1 ! with punttuality, and Sub-
I enters m ,t depend on receivjnr them as reaularli
■ a.' the pa/ls arrive.
,y, -♦!
June 8.
544
-~j ift ""
To the Public.
r Editorof the GazettjJ of t 7 NilEi>
JL States, propoles pubiilhing the Papfer,
.11 xlci thai Title, every livening,Sunday's l
excepted.
To render it interesting as a Daily Publi
cation* it (hall contain foreign and domeltiC)
commercial and political Intelligence Es
says and Observations, local and general
Maritime information Prices Current of
Merchandize and the Public Funds. Alto a
l uminary of the proceedings of Congee fs f and
of the L?giflature of this State .—with a
jketch of Coagreffionai Debates, &c.
Advertizing favors will be gratefully re
ceived.
TERMS.
To (* printed on paper of the demy /ize
but a larger lize ih»ll Ue substituted in Detcju
t>er next
xe Six Dollars per Annum, to be
paid hajf Yearly.
When a fufneient number bf Subfcrtbers is
obtained, the Publication stall commence.
hi the interim, the Gazette will be publl/h
---ed twice a week as ufuai.—Sublcript-orts are
refpeftfully solicited by the Public's humble
servant,
JOHN FEN NO.
SidlfcriprroHs are rkeivtd *t the Cits Tavern,
South tiecmd Stttet—iy Mr. Ddfin, at the Shut*
ttker ferjdml wlit trein ptjft/fu* tf fui-'
/riptitui pa/itri, and by the £*luoi , fit kit hmfe,
AV 34, A'urih FiJth-StreO.
THE EDITOR
MOST earnestly requejts those ofhis diflant Sub
cnbcrs who are in arrears for the Gazette, to make
payment as soon as pojjible.—l hofc persons ivho have
receivedfubfcription money on his account are dc fired
to remit the fame. The arrearages J'or the Gazette
hive accumulated to aferious amount—Serious, us
th/ty are the only resource to discharge very serious
engagements incurred in the prosecution of this ex
fenjtvepublication. Philadelphia, June 26.
~ '"fifsT ev*imir
By Thomas Dobfon,
Sookfcllcr», at the Stcnc-Hovfcy in Sccoud Jirect,
F'Hi'LAOK L I'HJA,
Y O L U M E IX, of
ENCYCLOPAEDIA:
OR, A DICTIONARY OF AR.TS,SCIENCES,
1»» MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
On a Plan entirely nsxu :
BY WHICH
THE DIFFERENT SCIENCES AND ARTS
arc digested into the Form of Diftiutl,
TREATISES OR SYSTEMS:
THIS VOLUME CONTAIN?'
HYDROSTATICS, Hygrometer, f-Jiftory of
Japan, I.eland, jrrufMem, J ow s.' India,
InJcCts, fhlurance, 1 #eland, Italy, KemAjfhatka,
Knighthood, L»ogu»ge, Law, LegrrdWmain,
•vis li a gn at variety ot and Mifa<■ 1-
la neon's Articles.—lllullratco wjjl,h thirty-one
elegant Copperolates. *§" ■
CONDITIONS.
I. -Tbfc-york ■ is* printing
and new types, (cast tor the pu-pole) which
will be occasionally renewed before tbty co,i)-
tract a Worn appearance.
11. Trie work, is furn;fhed in hoards, in volumes
or half~vo<ume*, as fobfci ibers chafe; the price
ot the whole volumes, five dollars each, ot
halt-volumes two dollais-and two-thuds ol a
dollar each. Ten dollar's to be paid on (üb
fenbrng, the' vMumes or half-volumes frnffhed
tq be paid lor wlkiv delivered, thepriceofone
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each (ucceeding volume to be paid on deliver
in% the volume preceding tt. No pan of tbe
work will be delivered urVl'efs paid for-.
111. In tbe eoui fe of itie publication will bedc
li\ercd about five hundred copperplates ele-
ganily engraved in Phi)«uiclpHia : which by
tar exceed m number thofic given in ajiy other
fciemifn dictionary. At theclofrot the pub
lication .will be dfelivertdan elegant Frmntf
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper tj»
tie pages for the different volumes, '
It is expected the work will be compiifcd in
about eiglueen volumes in quarto.
The tubfenptiun will continue open on the
above terms tall the fir# day of September next,
to give oppoiumity i 0 thole who are uot yet
labtciihe.s, forwent.
Thole who have fubfcribcd, and got only a '
small part ot ttje work, ate requeued to com
plete their, feu*, as,t>ar as pub'lilhed, as soon *6
poflible, as aker the fijft ol ne*t September, by
which tuns the tenth volume is expe&cd to be
; ready, the publifhdr will not consider hiinfelf
bound' to make up those felts which arc not
completed u»p to th?t period.
Phi/adcl&hjfli lu.r>e K|j 1 793 V
Seat of War.
For Sale, as. M. CAR,EY's St or:,
No, 118, Mariiet-itrcat,
A Sheet Map of the
Flench, Austrian and Dutch Netherlands in
.Wuch the flWgrefv. of the prefcnt
b€ traqed.——, , Ja three eighths cj a d6H ir
And a Map of the Tltr.ee. No,Uiern Diftrift.
of France, divided into Departments
rnce %'oj a dollar'.
Maps of the United
: ~ A "- V fpi'ited gentlemen, pof
(elfca.ui mater,ab so, correcting and in,pry
ing the Maps of the fevera! States, will lay
r Cafe - V undcl ' ver . v particular obligation',
by communicating them. H<; is l„ immediate
want: of iome tor New.Jersey and Delaware :
ot winch States he is now preparing Maps.
Guthrie's Geography:
_ The fubl'cripfion for this wo. k will be com
doU^T^ a V^. prefWt rate twelve
dollars, t, 11 the full o;.v of November next:
alter Which, It Will be raiied to fourteen d a l
uy s.
Auguji 14..
War Bcpartmt::*.
T.V>'ORM.VI lON ' "J!
I 1 Mituaiy 1 <i» of i, » L -„, . rt 'V /'
I • 111 fuini 10 which ihry ai« iutitud t„ "
March last, and which will become ,i„"ur,
5... ol Scp.cmbr, „c*,, will be paid 011 th , f "!
day by .he Comn,ifli ulieu ol the Uw. J„~
... the Sta lt , refpcetivcly uqdc, the vfcu J''
6
By Command of the
\l
ii. KNOX, Srerttury ct'lVan
N B. THt Pmntrrj.iv tkt refti:(!i vl
•a
Treasury Department,
NAu&ufl 10, 1793.
oT j'^ E 13 l,er eby jjiven, that PrnpoAh
will be received at the Office of the Se
cretary of the Tl-ealttry, until the I4:hdav
<>t September next inchifively, tofurnifh by
contrast tse fallowing articles of Cbadiing,
»ur the use at" the United States, viz.
4,800 Hats,
5, 120 Stocks,
J, 123 Stock-Uafps,
z£j,4Bs Shirts,
5,123 Vests,
5,120 Coats,
9,600 Woollen Overalls,
9,600 Linen ditto,
19.230 pairs of Shoes,
9,630 pairs 01 Soclts,
5,129 Blankets,
320 Caps,
320 fmrs of Leather Breeches,
040 pairs of Boots,
320 pairs ot Spurs,
640 p.prs of Stockings,
1,520 Rifle Shirts.
t0 de "veredatthecitv
of Philadelphia ; „ ne fourth pai tof the whole
number of IniM on or before the 15th of Fe
bruary, one fourth 011 or before the 15th of
April, and the remaining half on or before
the I sth of June, 1794.
T he articles must be agreeably to fiich pat
terns as (hall be direfled by the Secretly for
t.ie Department of War. Payment will be
made as soon as the whole of the articles (bail"
nave been delivered. ej>t!4'S.
Treasury Department,
Nnrrrw , v 1793-
U l ICE is hereby given thai p.upoUs *111
be icceiveo UM ,il thc i-j-h diy , )f
n C «, inriubvely, by David Henly a, Kuoxville
M» ihe XcJTitory Sou, h Weft ot.the Ohio, Jor ,hi
iupply of •'II ratiuns whicb may be requirid to
the ule of the Uniied States, liom the h ft c?av i
January to the thjrty.fi, ft ,l ay ot Dccembe,
1 794' both days inclusive, at the plnces, sr.
within the diftri&s hcieafter mentioned, v
1. At any place or places from the mouth
"J TeßS.ffi.-c-~u* CL:^J.. rr , o. Bear
Creek, on tne laid River inclufivtiy.
2. At »»y place or place. S from the month of
the nv&i Cumberland to Nalliville, on the laid
rivet, and at N'alhvillc.
3* A* anv place 9/ places within th'/ty miles
of laid Nashville to the Couth ward, weffwaiu.
of ncirtli wand thereof.
4. At filed foe'* Lick, or or place*
between (Ik; said Lick and Nafbviile,
5. Ai any place oi places from Bledfoe's L'ck
to the doffing ok Cumberland rive r, along ihe
new Trnccj-at or near the great Salt Lick, and aC
tlyrfaid doffing place over Cumberland livrr.
6. At any place or places along the said trace,
nointhr crofiing of Cumberland river to the
mouth of Ciiocli river, and at the said mouih of
Clinch river. 1
7. Ac any place Or places between ,lh* said
Tiiouin ot Clinch aid Kuoxville, anil 41 Knox
xille. 1 -
8. At any place or places on the north-wefty
en frrmi'.ers °f Walking!on and Hamilton dif
tritts, in the Teintoiy South oi the Ohio, fiom
Ihe mouth of Clinch to the Virginia line.
9. Al any pljcc or places on the fouthem
ftqntieijrol ihe said diftndU ol and
Hamilton.
. 10. .»l any-other phicriir ptac** 1,1 I.K Ull
- Suuih of ihe Oh-.0, no! herein mentioned.
1 he rations to he fuppltcd arc to confifi ol the
following articles, vi?.
One pound of l»«ad or flour,
One pound of beel, or j of , pound oK park,,
■ Half a jill of brandy, rum or whisky,
One quart of fait
j Two quails of viuegarf
Two pounds ol soap £ P cr 100 rat >° ,,s -
On pound of Candjes^
Tberatioiis are to befumifiici in fuc'h quan
titiKS, as that there (hall at all t„ ms , duiinif the
laid 1, rm, be (ufficrenl for the confumprtdii oh
the iroojjf at cach lon or cither Itatumarv poll,
wliu.h is or may be elhbl.flled for the fpoce of
at It-all three months in advance, in and
wholelomc pioVifions, if tbe fame (halj be re
quired.
Itisiofceutt-lciftnod in each caff, that alt
Jolif s fuilaincd by the depredations ol thf enc-r
---nj'ej.prby of the t.onps of the United
States, (hall be paid for at the prices of the ar
ticles captured or deftroved, on the depofuiom
ol two or more creditable charaftrr-, md the,
ceriihcate of a commiflioneo officer, alccrtaininff
Ihe circumjUncw of the lois, and the amount o£
the articles for which compension is claimed.
l-hole who may b«oror proposers are «■-
qu lied to trmifmit without delay to the Secre
taryofthe 1 rcafury duplicates of (l.tir propofalj.
Ihe propolals will t,e decided upon at Knox-
V '', a where the said p av id Hcnly wilt
make kno* n the ofter which is «c"cpted, and
will conclude the coiitrsft.
P L A~~
OF THE
City of Washington,
•Sold by the BooksmxeHs,
DO-BSOK, CAREY, iOUXC,, is ChUJCSUAXX
WW^tu
ill
N- S