A NATIONAL PAPE.R, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JffHN FENNO, No. 34, t/OPTH FIFTH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 134 of Vol. IV.] Wednesday, September n, 1795.
,'o^gz:
lOR THE GAZETTE.
TO THE SIEUR. GENET,
Minijler oj France.
C LOATHED with a diplomatic charaAef,
and received, bv the firft functionary of
the United .States, as the accredited Minister
from a g;eat nation, you sustain, fir, an office
to which the policy of the American republic,
religiously obicrvanr ol the universal law of
rations, allures etni:ifent immunity. Regard,
ingyoii in this high character, a republican
pew claims to address yon.
To announce, in this address, the name by
which I am per Ton ally kuown, mi ht be ar
htijtoed as oftentationt' neither is it required
by she usages of the American press. But the
M.m of honor, fir,' disdains to communicate
t .j;4ugh t'le press what he would not avow at
the command of propriety. And, although
ideas of delicacy may now advise me to con
ceal my name even from the printer, I fpum
the idea of (hrinking from the charge should,
jultice'and honor forbid such concealment.
Yet, while my language does not offend a-
prmxriptoriTrtroertit*tiwt xbti*
J may fairly claim to be the sole iepofitory of
my own secret
Deriving no perfotial emolument from the
fifcal system of the United States, and holding
no office under their national government, I
am not the dependant of any of the ohiefs of
departments, and living in a land of liberty,
I difejaiu to be the stave of party. A plain
man, I speak in the charafler of one of the people.
Conscious that the sovereignty of the United
Stares resides in the people, and that the au
thority of their government is an emana
tion from their will, I purpose neither to
disregard the dignity *>f your representative
office, nor to violate the decorum that be
comes the char after which I now personate
before an enlightened public.
That you are not Jellitute of talent, is ob
vious from communications which the press
has fubmittcd to the- public eye. That you
have been unfortunate si ice your arrival in
America, is probable fTfoin the fame com
munications. And God forbid, fir, that any
part of the American people ihould, for this
cause, qfi?r you indignity !
7>«. ixaen inured unfortunate, ir, er
ring through ignorance, ancl not from inten
tion, you have prejudiced the cause which du
ty and disposition urged you to benefit. And
to prevent your being thus beguiled by error,'
is not inconfirtent with the principles of real
Jriendlhip.
That you fhduld err in your ideas of the
Ame ican public, is a misfortune, against
which aii extensive acquaintance with the
hillory of departed empires, or with the ac-
toal state of society in Europe, could not,
alone, complttely you. In the United
States, fir, the human character has adorned
a form uptrior to whatever authentic history
has recorded of Greece, or Rome J countries
in which ferocious manners characterized a
rigid ariftoci'acy, and profligate populace,
who struggled for domination, and alternate
ly outraged the law of moral order : And to
convince you tliat the speaker's opinion is
consonant to that of a philosopher whose ta
lents ought to command your refpeft, I refer
you to jeffeifon's " notes on Virginia."—
The feudal difpotifms of Europe, in which
hereditary usurpation has ethafculated rhq
energies of mind and yet reigns over syco
phants and slaves, are strangers to that force
of character which resides in the citizens of
America.—And the French ardour for liber
ty yet wants that temperance of mind which
characterizes thp republicans of the new world.
Feeling in the cause of liberty that »rdor
of spirit which diftinguilhes your nation, and
arriving among a people whose love of liberty
is the strongest sentiment of their foul, you
feein, fir, to have been ignorant, how much
the American pafiion for liberty is tonder the
discipline of an exalted reatfon. The Ame
rican palTion for liberty is not the Roman
pride of domination j a criminal pride, that
claims liberty for one nation, and denies it
to a conquered world. No ! The American
citizens are fnends to the cause of universal
liberty, which, in their estimation, is infepar
■ble ii om the equitable empire of law. And
the adherence to that liberal order which the
law of republicanism preftrihes is estimated»
by them, as being friendly to virtue, and re
quifite to the good of universal focietv.«—
Glorying in republican principles, persuaded
that all the tyrannical thrones of Europe niuft
«re long fall before the united forces of phi
losophy and liberty, they proudly claim for
themselves that national independence which
they acknowledge to be the right of all the na
tions ot the globe. And, while they exult in
the hope of the universal funeral of monar
chy, they recognize, within the circle of their
own empire, no sovereign but themselves.
The firft functionary of this sovereign, fir,
is that veteran patriot, Washington. To
him is uiianimoufly confided the helm of em
pire. Yet, if he is guilty of violating that
corftitutioa which cloathes him with the ex
ecutive power and prescribes the rule of his
duty, if he is faithlefs to that high trull to
which he has (Worn to be faithful.—<lo I in
jure you, thou firll citizen of America, by
luppofing in impossibility ?—lf I fay, even
Washington is thus guilty, he knows, and we
all know, that he is constitutionally responsi
ble. But, ai to this point, the people of the
United States want no foreign interference:
and our fair swords will never permit hftn,
or any other man, in this country, to be ar
bitrarily accused, arraigned, and ordered to
death, by a tyi ant who bears the name ol'Na
tional Convention. As the only sovereign,
ibe people know that the legitimate power of
their constituted authorities eflentially ema
nates from their will, which is announced in
the constitution. And fir, as they have pro.
vided for the constitutional punishment of
their highest officer if guilty of high crimes 8c
misdemeanors, they, on the other hand, as
men of honor feel tbemfelves pledged to sup
port him in the performance of his constitu
tional funftionj: and, as men who are not
dastards, they must and wiil thus fupporthim.
As to thq*£ ( »<ftitutio<iality of the measures
which the President has adopted, relative to
rrirroc, ant} hrr ciwniW*, 1 rcct.»
charge him with having mifcondufted. No
man, I am confident, who ha; corre&ly deve
lopedthe principlesof universal law, if be will
honeltly speak his opinion, will fay, that the
President's proclamation Was uaconftitution
al. The book of universal nature, being a
chef i'auvrt, is the only work which the Ame
rican people recognize as being of indrfputa
ble authority in all political queftfons. And
I prei'ame, that, after fully consulting this
authority, you would not be able to prove
from it that the President has mifcoudu&cd
as toTrance Except that lam not an ora
tor as you ai*e, and if a man who never had
an ofllce at Versailles, and who in the simpli
city of nature speaks right on, were adequate
to maintain an argument againlt the Minister
Plenipotentiary of France, I Ihould hope, were
it proper and neeeflary, to be able Specifi
cally to maintain the present sentiments a
gainst even yonrfelf.
The mealufes of the President being con
ilitutional, his enlightened fellow citizens, as
men of principle, would support him, had lie
never been the Chief of their patriot army.
Independently of tteir sttachitietit to the urft
of Generals, their perfbnal and public honor
is, by the very principles of the fecial contract
pledged to support their own officer in exe
cuting the lervice which their country has
assigned him. And they know that the prin
ciples of political arrangement and national
prosperity ptefcribe the establishment of pub
lic authorities, as being requisite to the be
neficial administration of their conimoii af
fairs, as eflential t6 their capacity of acting
in concert, and as indispensably necessary to
the maintenance of their own independent
sovereignty.
Sir, the of the United States
afis by conftitnted reprelentatives, and hot
otherwifc. This sovereign, as such, limply
wills : And it is done.
On mature deliberation, the American so
vereign, in adopting a general constitution
for the empire, has determined not to have
" any direst correspondence" with foreign
powers. And the President, as the organ of
the whole American nation, immediately re
presents the whole people for the purposes of
national intercourse. Their sovereign will,
as manifefted in the national constitution,
haspronouriced, that it is neither wife ror
beneficial to admit any application from fo
reign States except through the organ of the
executive. Their .general plan of policy be
ing delineated in the constitutional chart, its
fpecific execution is committed to the ref
peftive authorities, who are the constituted
organs of the sovereign in the business of ad
niiniftration. The American sovereign, fir,
has such a sense of his own character that he
disdains the idea of being peribnally called up
on to ast in queftioos that merely concern
the actual administration of affairs.
The principles of liberty forbid the sovereign,
who wills, to also act. Philolophy forbids ft—
National dignity, and justice, forbid it—The ne
cefTary principles of republicanism forbid it—
And, notwithstanding the example of the French
National Convention, it is not in the power of
the collected talents of all Europe, to make the
enlightened sovereign of America guilty of thus
outraging the principles of liberty, philosophy,
dignity, justice, repubiicaniTra. We refufe
to negociaie except through the ageocy of our
executive ; not becauie we fear the President as
our master, for he has no luch chara&er, and
we have no such few ; nor because we are such
idiots or cowards as to think the power of go
vernment fupcrior to our owo, for we know
that the power of government is derived from
our delegation ; but we refufe any other mode
of national negociation, because we judge this
mode to be wisest, btft, just—and, especially
and above all, becanfe such is our sovereign will.
And (bould the maintenance of this will require
the sword of the people, you and all mankind
may be adored, that ii must not, will not, and
(hall not deep in the scabbard.
Such, fir, are fentiroenu which the American
people hold forth to nations. And, from iholc
533
fcntimenti, the. Trench ought not to desire or
txp«£l Americk to depart, although her sove
reignty {houty be invaded by all the powcis of
Europe, followed by the reft of the world, like
hell wiih blatkrfttnfurre&ion, at their heels!
Judge then, fir, what mud be the fentimenta
of Americans, on examining the publi(hed let
ter which you have recently add relied to the
chosen representative of the whole American
nation ! A plain mart as I am, expefi not that I
should (peak on this fubjefl with that Cublime
and impafliooed eloquence which has been cul
tivated in France more than in any other mo.
dern nvti'on I Thereltjte, permit me to Ijpeak
and freely, as 1 feci, and because I feel I
without undertaking, however, to pronounce a
panegyric ou myfelt, a bufincfs at which Ame
ricans are not expert, I leave it to others, to
fftinute whether 1 evince any portion nf " the
energy and franknefa which ever characterize a
true republican."
Unfortunate indeed may you be deemed, if
you have been led, from any cause whatever, to
indulge the visionary idea of a separation be
tween the President, and the people of Ameri
ca, And yet, fir, you appear, from your awn
words, W fcfeve indulged vhw idea. For is.since
(.*■- f f of>t
hasokvin-ucd against the views of the people,
and aga>nft their principles of honest faith. as to
Frafnce, the President is at the head and front of
the offending. Would you, by pdblifhing the
late official communications relative to this fub
je&, be understood to charge him, fir, with be
ing unfriendly to the cause of liberty ?—-with
wishing to be the sultan ?—with a defjgn, by his
conftruefcion of treaties, to aid the league of
powers against France ? Or would you be un
derstood to charge him with fearing tfie power
of Britain, or any other nation, and with, pufil
lanimoufly defer tin# the charatttfr of America ?
He has been proved* fir, not only in the calm
hbur of peace, bu» amirfft the storm of war.—
And no lncohfiderabrle part of his countrymen
have been proved by his tide. Yet, it you
think the young Americans, who have never
tried " £he flinty and steel couch of war," are
dastards'; and if ynu would know how the fact
is ; if too you think that such condutt on vour
part will promote the objefcU of your million ;
let their fathers be insulted ! you may then
know whether the sons are dastards.
Do you then mean to publickly charge the
Prefidi.-;# with Violating the obligations of our
nation* J To him, to you, to the
charge tsTJ.fUfuUy inter tiling.
HavC not otfr judicial officers, by their opi
nion, fan&ioneo his interpretation of cxifttng
treaties? And are not the judges the constitu
tional expofirors of all our laws of every de
scription ? And are not treaties part of the law
of the land ? After our judges have expounded
the law, do we recognize, as relative to our own
conduct, any ulterior tribunal of adjudication ?
And db you imagine, that any foreigner what
ever shall, within the circle of >ur empire, be
eventually permitted to a£f, in any cafe what
ever, in opposition lo such interpretation ? Do
you deem it advifeable to appeal, on a national
question, from our conftuuted authorities, whose
decisions we acknowledge to be obligatory on
ourfelvei, to us who have constituted tbofe au
thorities ? The procedure, fir, would not ac
cord with the established order of things in thi|
country. But if, while sustaining the
of miniiter plenipotentiary, you choose to avail
yourfcif of that general liberty which every
person has of publicly dating whatever any
printer will publifti, there is no law in the Unit
ed States which can, in the firft instance, prevent
the calling upon the American people to
judge of the President. But
tiich a piocedurc, in a quellion be
tween our nation and a foreign power, being of
the nature of a u dire£l correspondence" with
the fovereign,is uot conceived by the people, 44 to
be within the line of propriety or duty." Our
sacred regard, however, to the liberty of the
press, renders the procedure practicable. And
if a foreign minister should, before the tribunal
of public opinion, thus impeach our higheit of
ficer of disloyalty to his fovereign,that fovercign
will indeed decide on the merits of the appeal,
and with a spirit worthy of an enlightened fo
vereiert. If the officer has been guilty of be
friending tyranny, guilty of violating his offici
al duty ana our plighted faith by facnficing the
honest mtcrefts of our friends to those of their
enemies, we mud and will be fatisfied. If our
national integrity be appealed to, and national
justice is publickly demanded against Walhing
tort, by our honest swords we declare, that, if
constitutionally proved guilty, he shall be pu
nished. Although he has grown grey in the fcr
vice of his country, yet we have the firmnefs to
steel our hearts for the momeot, and to dare be
just even against him. But by the fame swords,
which we hope will never have cause to blufti
for their owners, we further declare, that the fo
refg* jsisiarr, who thus fevcrely invokes our
jiiftiel, makes an experiment upon us whicn he
must never repeat ; For, on thia fubjeft, no fo
reign power (hall use us for sport. And if you
have ever once thought of adopting such a mea
sure, let me, if you are pausing on the banks of
the Rubicon, request you to consider its confe
qucnce. In cafe of its adoption, yourfelf or
Washington, must be condemned. Should you
demand of us to fit in solemn judgment on the
man who commands our united hearts, you must
in the event, seal either his, or your, political
damnation ! Should you publickly appeal Wafti
ington of national disloyalty, be sure you fur
oifti damning proofs againQ him I t>« sure, y«u
&Uso
[Whole No. 456.]
prove him falfe to his trufl ! Or by the wrath of
injured frienri(hip, ♦♦****♦*
Sir, you have been received as mini iter pleni
potentiary from a nation whose friendfliip we
value, and purpose to defervc. Yet, as proud
as delicate on the fubje& of friendship, the Ame
rican mind can feel the implications contained
in your letter ro the Prefidcnt of the United
States. • Then, fir, if you wou4d not alienate the
mind of America, fort.ear, on this rhemc* the
language of reproach ! Goad rot the spirit ot'
Americans, by accusing their common repre*
tentative and friend of cold indifference to the
cause of liberty ♦ nor charge him with want
fidelity to their public engagements! It is tht
pride of the American nation, fir, to observe its
treaties of commercial amity, and yet be just to
every nation under heaven : Its firmnefs too is
equal to its pride.
If you value the American cftimation of the
French, it is hoped, that you will never, in fu
ture, mention the disinterested friendship of
France to thi« country in the vary fame sentence
in which joti complain that the American go
vernment has nor f bv way of requital, manifeft*
ed a regard lor * tnrr mtereft ! for, ertcrpt in re
lation to the ruder part of mankind fact) as are
' ' ' v.rft.. 't . ~ tt ?tc\ Ac
American falhon to talk ofgifts which are to be
fiatd for.
It is further mentioned, for your refl.flion,
that the American researches have not yet rfif
covered, in any of the regions of science, that
the obligations of gratitude are perieftlv com
pulsory like those of justice. Nor has moral
philosophy as yet taught them, that it is a proof
ot delicate generosity to speak of meafurcs un.
der the profefled idea of being generoui, and
yet, at the fame time, demand a fpecific retribu
tion. It is presumed, that the humane Ameri«
[ K cans, who never enquired whether any of the
uriloitunate fugitives from oite of the Freueh
islands were called ariftdcrats, but at once ho
nored themfclves and their country by their ge
nerons beneficence to them all, will never give
cause to doubt the frofejfed motives of their con.
du£t, hv uiging ilieir generofuy as the balls of a
legal demand. This, however," i» a fubjeft, fir,
on whith I leave you to feel lentiments whnch
wounded delicacy cann«t easily express.
ALFRED.
EXTRACTS,
f't+tkt CalumHm*Cmthti.
Notwithstanding the great di»«rJitj of,po
litical fentimeat an many fubje&s, all concur
in opinion, thfct tlie prolperity of our country
disappoints the wiflies of her enemies, and
furpaires the hopes of her most fanfnine
friends. '
The husbandman finds an high price, and
increaling demand for tiie products ofhis foiL
The mechanic has coftftant employ, and full
compsnfation for his labour and 11cill. The
merchant visits every part of the globe, in
Cuccafsfu! pursuits of gain ; and while the na.
tions of Europe are. engaged in destroying
each other, his Ihips can alone supply them
with the bread that feeds, or the apparel that
covers them.
Free from restraint, aod welcomed to every
shore, the American seaman can ftfurely, and
ilmoft exclusively, carry the produce of the
world, and command a recompence.equal to
his wilhes. In Europe, the sailors are em
ployed in navigating their (hips of war—the
artizans, instead of fabricating the conveni*
ences of )ife-*-the husbandmen, instead of
tilling the foil, and producing subsistence for
themselves, and others, are busied in mutual
deltruftion. Americans enjoy almofl: a mo
nopoly of feeding and carrying for the richest,
and most populous nations of the earth. This
enviable condition the people of the United
States know well how to estimate ! and, in
jnftice to themselves and posterity, cannot,
will not put at hazard. They have too lately
experienced the horror? of war, and too dear
ly paid for peace good government, to
risque their preftnt tranquility.
From the Columbian Gazetteer.
In the days of contest, between the charac
ters of Whig and Tory, it was often alked,
(and fometiraes very gravely) to which of them
we Ihould suppose the Apostle Paul adhered
and a positive answer to this would have de.
cided the opinion of mod who made that en
quiry.
The fame implicit confidence is given at
the present day, to the decisions of tlmfe nf
the firft (landing in the State, and a propor
tionable degree of it is always bestowed on
men of eminence in every station ; this, by
many is supposed to be a very rational mode
of Judging, in cases where one is not fufficient-
Jy acquainted with the merits of a cause to
judge of it himfelf.—But there is a different
class of mankind who fufpeft the Judgment
of all who go in * higher walk of life, and
that from a strange idea, of which they seem
to be very fond, that goodness and greatness
are incompatible, and that no one can be wifir
who knows more than them r elres, or boncft
Who holds more property.I
ton rm. c.ii-rie.
HFLVrpH 11.
£Con'imed/ram our ft*per of Saturday U/t^]
r pHE logic employed T>y the writeV oil this
pccafton, will b* best underflot d by accom
modating to it the language of * proclamation,
founded on the prerogative and-pokey of fuf*
pemding the treaty with France.
Whereas a treaty was concluded on the
day of between the United' States and the
Ffench nation, through the kingly government,
whlclf then the organ will: And
whereat the said nation hath since exercised its
right (no wife abridged by the said treaty) of
changing the organ of it* will, by abnlifhing the
■ said kingly government, as inconflflent with
the rights and happinef- of the people., and efta
blifhinga republican in lieu thereof, as most fa
vorable to the public happihefs, and best suited
to the genius of a people become sensible of
their rights and alhamed of their chains: And
whereas,by the conftitncion of th United States,
the executive is authorised to receive ambafla
dor#, other public mwifters and consuls: And
whereas a public minister, dujy appointed and
commiflioned by the new Republic of France,
• hath arrived and prefeotcd himfelf to the execu
tive, in order to lie received in his proper cha
ra<fter: Now be it known,'that by virtue of the
said right veftbd irt the executive to receive am
bafiadors, other public minillers and consuls, &
of the rights included therein, the executive hath
refufed to receive the said minister from the said
republic, and hath thereby caused the a&ivity
and operation of all treaties with the French na
tion, hitherto in ferce 'as fuprerne laius of {he
landy to be lufprnded until the -executive, by
taking off the said fufpeniion, ftiMi revive she
feme; o£-which, all perfom concerned are to
take n tke, ta theif "irt r bi<'v/ j t i
The writer, as if beginning to feel that he
was grasping at more than he could hold, endea
vour?, all of a fudden,to squeeze his doctrine in
to a Tmaller and a less vulnerab'e shape.—»
The reader shall fee the operation in his own
words.
u And where a treaty antecedently exists
between the United States and such nation (a
nation whose government has undergone a revo
lution) that right (the right of judging whe
ther the new rulers ought to be recognized or
not) involves the power of giving operation or
not to such treaty. For until the new govern
ment is acknowledged, the treaties between the
nations, ai fur at leojl as regards public rights %
are of tourfe suspended."
This qualification of the suspending power,
though relu&antly and inexplicitly made, was
prudent, for two reasons; firft, because it is
pretty evident that fri*ate rights, whether of
judiciary or executive cognizance, may be carri
ed into effu& without the agency of the foreign
government; and therefore would not be fufj
pended of course by a rejr&ion of that agency.
Secondly, because the judiciunj, being an inde
pendent department, and a6Hqg under an oath
to purfne the law of treaties as the supreme law
of the laad, might not readily follow the execu
tive example, and a right in one expositor of trea
ties, to consider them as not-in force, whilst it
would be the duty of another expositor to confkief
them as in force y would be a phenomenon not
so easy to be explained. Indeed as the do&rine
(lands qualified, it leaves the executive the right
of fnfpcnding the law of treaties in relation to
fights of one description, without exempting it
from the duty of enforcing it in relation to rights
oranother description.
t But the writer is embarked in so unfnundan
argument, that he tfoes not save the reft ps his
inference by this facrifice of. one half of it. It
is fiot trite, that all public rights .are of courie
suspended by a refufal to acknowledge the, go
vernment, or even by a fufpenfioji.of the govern
ment. And in the next pUce, the right in
question does not follow flf.m the neceflary sus
pension of public rights, in canfequence of a rer
suss.l to acknowledge the government.
Public rights are of two forts; those whiclj
require the .igency of governments,thofe wlucfc
may be carried into efjeel without that ag?nc 1 /,
. As public rights are the rights of the nation.
not of the government, it is clear that wherever
they can be made good to the nation, without
the oflicp of government, they arc not suspend
ed by the want of an acknowledged govern
ment, or even by the want of an existing go»
vernment; and that there are-important rights
of this description, will be illustrated by the
following cafe:
Suppose, that after the conchifion of the trea
ty of alliance between the United States and
France, a party of the enemy had surprised and
put to death every member ofcongrel's; that
the octafion had been used by the people of A
• merica for changing the old confederacy into
such a government as now exi(ls„ and that in
the progrefsof this revolution, an interregnum
had happened. Suppose further, that during
this interval, the dates of South-Carolina and
—- Georgia, or any other parts of the United States,
hid been attacked,and been put into evident and
imminent danger of being irrecoverably loft,
without rhe interpoficion of the French arms; is
it not manifcfl, that a« the Treaty is the Treaty
of the United States, not of their government,
the people of the United States could not forfeit
their right to the guarantee of their territory
by the accidental fufjieiifion of their govern
ment; and that any attempt, on the part df
France, to evade the obligations if the Treaty,
by pleading the suspension of government, or by
refufmg to acknowledge it, would justly have
been received with universal indignation, as an
ignominious perfidy ?
With refpeA to public rights that cannot take
rfTrc} in favour of a nation without the agency
of its government, it is admitted that they are
fiifpended of course whfie there is no govern
mem e*iAeftet, an.! a rffufal to re-
mtt <XiHmj» giovernriJert.' Sut uo
in favour to Intend the ope
ujatiftn of lyrc&ies, can either
■ale. }Vhcre exiftenjre of the government
isfufpentledv it m a hsCestf neCciSiy would
be a cai'r happening withau? the a& of tke «*c-
C*tive, and eonfequcrttly could prove nothing
for or"againfl. the right.
In the o'ther cafe, to wit, of "a refufal by the
. executive t* recognise an cxijliug government,
- however cetcain it maybe,-tnat a Cuipenfion of
some of the public rights might epfue, yet,it is
equally certain, that the tefuW would be with
out right or authority; and that or
authority could be implicd*or prptf £he
unauthorised a<st. If a right to da lfr»ateyer
might bear an analogy to the necessary conle- i
quence of what was done without right, could
be inferred from the analogy, there, would be
no other iimit to power than the limit tQ its in
genuity.
Tt is no answer to fay that it may be doubtful
whether a government do<? or does noyt exilt;
or doubtful which may be the existing and a<s
- Government. The cafe stated by the wri
ter i», that there are existing rulers; that there
i an acting Government ;..but that they are new
rulers; and that it is a new Government. The
full reply, however, is to repeat what has been
already oljferved ; that flueftiows of thi& fort are
mere questions of f.i&j us such only, they
belong to the executive ; that they would equal
ly btiong the executive*. if it was tieddown to
the rtception of public ministers, without any
diferetion to receive or reje& them; that where
the fail appears to be, that no government ex
lfts, the confeqnenrial suspension is independent
of the executive; that where the fa<st appears to
be, that the Government doesexift, the execu
tive nitdl be governed by die fa&, a*d can have
no right or difcrecion, on account of the date
or form of oho Guven*£?te;?fc, •"> p-Tuft so ac-
either by reje<shng ltfcpfific mi
nister,. or by any other step taken <*n that ac
count. If it does icfufe on that account* the
refufal is a wrongful a<ft, and can neither prove
nor illustrate a rightful power.
I have spent more time on this part of the
difcufiion than may apsear to some, to have
been requisite. But it was considered as a pro
per opportunity for presenting some important
ideas, conne&ed with the general jArtajeA, and
it may be of life in (hewing how very fuperfi
cially, as well as erroneously, the writer has
treated it.
In other refpeilsfo particular aninvefligati
on was iefs necessary. "For allowing it to be, as
contended, that a fufperifion of treaties might
happen from a consequential operation of a right
to receive public minifrcts, which its ail express
right veftcd by the constitution < it could be no
proof, that the fame or aftmilar effe<sfc cOuld be
produced by the dirc& operation of a conjiruc
five power.
Hence the embarraflfments and grbf? contra
dictions of the writer in defining, and applying
his ultimate inference from the operation of the
executive power with nrini
tlers. \
At firft if exhibits an " important • instance
of the right of the executive to decide the obli
gation of the nation with regard to foreign naf
tions," v>
R.ifit)g from that, it confers on the
a right " to put the United States in a condition
to become an associate in war."
And, at its full authorises the execu
tive " to lay the legislature under an obligation
of declaring war."
From this towering prerogative, it suddenly
brings down the executive to the. right of " con-
Jfjkrt:ti*iliy ujj\ cling the proper or improper ex
ercise of the power of the legislature te declare
war.
And then, by a caprice as une*pe&ed as it i$
sudden, it espouses the cause 01 the legislature ;
rescues it from the executive right " to lay it
under an obligation of declaring war"; and aftwrts
it to be "free to perform its own duties, accord
ing to its own sense of them," without any other
eontrdul tjian what it is liable to,in every other
legifhtive ail.
The point at which it reft,is,
that «' tlit executive in the exercise of its conjlh
tutional fo-wc i, may eftabliih an antecedent (late
of things, which ocght to -weigh in thelegjflative
dttijions ; a prerogative which will import a
great deal, or nothing, according to the handle
by which you take it; and which, at the fame
time, you can take by no handle that does not
clalh with some inference preceding.
If " by weighing in the decisions"
be meant having an influence on the expediency of
this or that decision in the opinion of the legisla
ture ; this is no more than what every antece
dent (late of things ought to have, from whate
ver cause proceeding; whether from theufeor
abuf of conflitutional powers, or from the ex
ercise of conflitutional or aflumed powers. In
this sense the power to eftabliih an antecedent
(late of things is not constituted. But then it is
of no use to the writer, and isilfoin dire# con
tradiction to the inference, that the executive
may " lay the legislature under an obligation to
decide in favor of war.
If the meaning be as is implied by the force
of the terms « conflitutional poyv;V" thjt the
antecedent (late of things the exe
cutive, pught to have a coifitutional Height with
the legislature : or, in plainer words, imposes a
conjlitutional obligation on the legislative decifwnl,
the writer will not only have to combat the ar
guments l.y which such a prerogative has been
disproved . but to reconcile it with his lad con
ceflion, that "the legislature is free to perfoim
Its duties according to its own lince of them."
He miift (hew that the legislature is, at the
fame time, conjiitututianally fr:e to purfxe its own
judgment and conjlitutionally bound hy the iuihment
of tlx executive. ' "
534
Foreign Intelligence.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION*
JUNE 20.
B4RRERE, in rhe name of the
committee of public fafety,
made a report refpe&ing the trou
bles in Oorfica. " The whole island,
fai<3 he, is in a (late of coijnter-re
volution, and your commillioneis
have been obliged to act on the de
fenfive in the maritime parts of the
republic, which yet remain faithful.
You recollecft the decree againlt
Paoli ; perhaps it was impolitic ;
and although you suspended the ex
ecution of it, Paoli found means to
interefl the inhabitants in his favor,
by making them believe you would
give them up to the Genoese, whom
the Corficans dread and abhor; or
that you would crown theci devant
Dtike of Orleans, who is equally de
tested by the Corficans, who Inve li
berty, although they have been led
oftray by Paoli and the priefls. Your
fW(> commiffiorers, Amibonl & Baux,
have been flopped at Aix, in the
name of the federative republic of
the louth.
The following letter fr<gp your
cojliirifljoners at $aftia, jilXftrfica, (
d*lte<l from that town, June 27, will
more fully explain to you tlie trou
bles in this island :
Letter from the Gomm'tjfionirs.
" All is loft—the counter-rev«vlo
tion is compleated. Paoli is named
generaliflimo, that is to fay, sove
reign of the island. The clergy
have been reinstated ; the emigrants
have re entered. Paoli, under the
malk of religion, has abased himfelf
to be eletfted President of the con
fulta (an extraordinary convocation
of all the deputies of Corsica) : the
inhabitants have been led astray,
relpecting the situation of France,
and the intentions of the conven
tion. The iiiifurgents are armed to
the number of 1000, or 1200, and
maintain theinfelves at the expence
of the republic. They have leized
on the stores and treasure, and those
who (how attachment to the French
republic are shot The towns in
the interest of the republic, are de
clared rebels, and are kept in awe
by Itrong garrifoiis placed in them.
Paoli has published a writing against
the Convention, whom he calls the
agenrsof the Genoese. St. Floient,
Baftia, and Calvi, are still in the re
publican interest, and well garri
soned with republican troops.
" The confulta opened on the
26th May. Paoli was declared Pre
lident, Leonardo Vice-Pi efident, &
Pozi di Borgi Secretary.
" Paoli has published a pretended
letter from Marseilles, which,among
other things, aliens, that all the
communes ps France have declared
themselves in infurretftion against
the capital.
(Signed) " Dalcher, Comm'r,"
Comho.n.—" Do you not fee, that
Paoli holds the fame language in
Corsica, as Gaudet, Vergniaux, Gen-
I'onne, and other confpiratorsdid in
the Convention ? It is time that
France fhonld know who are her
friends."
Lacroix —" Couthon have
said more. There exists a document
in the committee of public fafety,
in which a conyerfatiori is repre
sented to have taken place on the
fir ft of April last, between Dumou
rier and the Prince de Cobourg ; in
which the latter prop ifed, that Ma
rat ftjou'.d be declared in a ilate of
arrest, the primary assemblies be
convened, and the Convention tranf
ferred to some other place than Pa
ris. It is worthy of remark, that in
this month propositions of a "similar
tendency were made in this afl'eun
bly, by Gaudet, Genfonne, Jtfriflot,
and others, whom you have declar
ed in a state of arrest."
, Barrere.— " Your coinmiuee has
charged nie ro present you ihe pro
ject of a decree, which ought 10 be
carried into immediate execution.
Your committee h*s thought fit to
calhier tljis confultniof Corsica, whose
power would soon vie with your
own. We hare ahnulled all its
a<sts, as bei'ng high cfeafon ngninlt
HELVIDIU3.
Tnfurreftton in Corfi'ca.
the sovereignty of the people Tut
must lend luccours to thole towns m
Corlica which remain faithful toihe
republic. Your committee has like
wise thought fit that you (hould en
lighten the people by fending com
millioneis among them ; for, accord
ing to every report, t hey are not in
imical to the republic, but only niif
led by the rich. Every thing gives
us reason to hope, that within one
month all will be right, and that we
(hall be able to ftril'e some deciftve
blow againlt the counter revoiu
tio'nifts."
llarrere then presented a decree,
conformable to the above principles.,
Decreed.
Chabot—" Rouyes and bis coU
league have been recalled from their
commiilion, but are not returned.
They have remained behind, in or
der to foment troubles in ihe de
partment of Herauli, and have pro
tested againlt the Decrees of the
Convention of the 31 It of May. I
move that they may bedifplaced." •
A deputy contradicted this Itate
nient, and the Convention palled to
the order of the day.
Decreed, that the Armies fhobld
in future be paid in bills on the
Treasury instead of affignats.
July i.
The Envoy of the United States
having demanded a suspension of
the decree which •permits thepriva
teers'of tW Repubtifto attack Ame
rican (hips: —In consequence, the
committee proposed the following
decree :
The National Convention, defir«
ous to maintain the union ertablifh
ed between the French Republic
a/id the United States of America,
declares, that the veflels of the Uni
ted States are not included in the
dispositions of the decree of the 9th
of March, according to the 16th ar«
ticle of the treaty made on the 6th
February, 1 788. —This decree wai
adapted.
LONDON, July 27.
It has frequently been alTerted,
and with great appearance of truth,
that without good air, good exer
cise, and good hours, scarcely any
person has good health, or attains
old age ; yet on Stiriday lift died at
Chomes, in the county of Bucks,
after a life of 92 years of uninter
rupted health, Mary, widow of
William Baidwynne, who had been
mother, grandmother, and g?eat
grandmother to above 200 persons,
more than I}o of whom are now
alive. The greate'.l part of her life
the palled in a sick room ; as her
employment until within these tea
years, has been that of nursing the
sick, in which situation (lie was fre
quently many months without go
ing into a bed, and took the little
flcep flie had in the day more fre
quently than in the night. The
writer of this paragraph a/ked her
by what expedient she had, in such
an employment, enjoyed such a
lhare of health, and iiad fa long a
life ; her reply was memorable ; —
" 1 have never, during my whole
life, drank any thing in the night,
except tea ; I have never fuffered
any event, however calamitous, to
depress my mind or prey upon my
spirits ; and I have made it my
constant endeavor to live in as good
a humour with myfelf and all
around me, as I pofiibly could.'
Prince Ernest had lately a very
narrow efcrfpe before Valenciennes.
A csnnon ball had parted Co near as
to kill a grenadier in the file behind
him.
General Dampierre's Monument
in the camp of Fa ma is is not yet
destroyed ; on the contrary, a sen
tinel has been placed over it, to
protect it.
A Courier, who arrived lately
from Vienna, brings intelligence
t-hat the Emperor is very ill with a
spitting of blood.
United States.
WILMINGTON, Sept. 7.
We are informed that the Lonv
mittee of Correlpoiidence have late
ly received from John Dickiiifoii
Efi]. of the Stale of Delaware, 2(X
Dollars, for ibe relief of the tugi
lives from St. Domingo,from porto rico
St. John's, August IJ.
si French schooner of 18 guns,
and a sloop of 14, entered a linall
port, the weft end of Porto R.ico,
and took out 17 fail of Spanilh vef
fels and afterwards demanded and
obtained a ranfoni front the town
of 14,000 dollars. These veflels
then failed round the south and east
fide and picked up all the veflels
they could find.
CHARLESTON, August 10.
Two Sharks Were caught yefteij
day morning at Crafts's Lower
wharf, and were exhibited for fonie
time on the wharf. They are laid
to be the largest ever seen in this
harbor, one of them measuring 12
feet in length, the other 9 feet, but
much thicker.
BOSTON, August 31.
We are happy to announce the
fafe arrival in this town, of Mr.
Robert Williams, after his fnfferings
in Arabia. After parting from the
Captain, and some of the crew in
the Deserts, he arrived at Bombay,
having in his toilsome journey, ex
perienced every species of inifery
and distress, that man seems capa
ble of sustaining. From Bombay he
took pad age for England, in a Bri
tish fliip, but hearing at St. Heleup,
that a war was declared, he went on
board the American ihip Eliza, ms
Boston, from Isle of France for Dun
kirk. This (hip was captured by
an Englifli privateer and carried
into Portsmouth, in England, from
whence he arrived in the lndnftry,
Capt. Barnes, in good health, to the
inexprelfible joy of his family and
friends.
WINCHESTER, Sept. 2.
ExtraCl of a letter from a correspon
dent of veracity, to the Editor here
of, dated German-Creek, Territory
South of the Ohio, Jiugujl 16.
" On the 4th inft. Col. Daugher
ty, of Jefferfon county, with 180
men, eroded the TenneflTee to the
Valley Indian Towns, killed nine
fellows and two squaws, took and
brought in seven prisoners, bnrnt
twenty towns and villages, and de
stroyed a vait quantity of vegeta
bles. The whiles had five men
wounded. The inhabitants on the
frontiers are in close forts, expect
ing a visit from the Indians when
the volunteersare tired of liarralfing
thein. Indeed the fpirlt of volun
teering feeins to be on the decline ;
only 40 men paraded on afignal for
an expedition, a few days ago ; tho'
I think a large company might be
railed, under the fan»stion of go
vernment ; and it is absolutely ne
ceflary to give them a severe flog
ging, in order to bring them to a
sense of their duty, and teach them
to pay some refpeft to treaties."
A variety of concurring circum
ftanceg tend to confirm a belief, that
the volunteers now railing in this
State, will very shortly receive
marching orders, consequently, a
report now in circulation, rtiat
there will be no campaign against
the Indians this season, is without
foundation. Ken.Caz.
On the ift inft, the Indians stole
a number of horses belonging to the
Quarter-Master, at Fort-Hamilton;
they were pursued by a party of
dragoons and rifle men, to the dis
tance of about 40 miles, where the
Indians appeared in such force, that
the pursuers thought prudent to
decline coming to action. The In
dians being in such force near the
out-pofts, is an argument that the
treaty has failed, and of course the
army will very shortly receive
marching orders.
PROCEED INGS relative to the PRESIDENT'S
PROCLAMATION *fNEUTRA>ITY.
Niw-Brunswick.
AT a meeting of thfc citizens of the counties
Somerfrt and Middlesex, in the Sittc of
"New-Jersey, at the White-hall in the City of
Bruotwic'k, on 30th August, 1793.
Delegates from the fevcral townships of the
counties of Someifet arid Middlesex, attended in
conwequence o< a circular letter from a commit
tee of the citizens of Ne w-Brunfwick, dated the
19th of this month, to take into confederation
the President's Proclamation, with regard toUie
Neutrality to be observed by the United State!
in the present European war.
from the townjhip of Pijcataway, Middlesex
(Chnty—Benjamin Manning, Justice Dunn.
Rocky HiH y n eflern brccind of Sorrier[et county—
Henry" Van Dyke.
Grigg's Town eaflern frtantt of Sorterjfi c»'unt\
— 'Hoagiand, Abraham Van
John Baird. ,
Princeton, rveflern of Somerjet county—
Rev Dr. J. Wuherlpuon, Enos Kcifey, Richaid
S;ockton
Six Mile Rut' t eafleru precintt of Somerset county
—John Stryktr, liaac O^den.
upper part oj the eajlern precintt of Somerset
county—Barjnadus Qarnion, Philip Fulkerion,
Nicholas Johnson.
7own/kip of HUlfborough, county of Somerfet —
Nicholas Dubois, Garret G. Garrilon, Gilbert
D. Low.
Be&minflcr town/kip, Some r set county —John
Bryant, Joseph Annin, John Mehelm.
Bernard's town/hip, Somerset county—Clement
Wood, Samuel Haines, Dr. Hugh M'Cowcn.
Township of Cranbury y county of Middle fex —
David Chambers, George M'Elroy, Richard
Handlin, Garret Snidicker, David Williamiou.
fVindfor tozunjkip, Middlesex county-*-Rev. Dr»
Samuel S. Smiih, Ez.ekiel Smith, Jonathan
Comhs, James Anderfon.
City of Perth Amboy, Middlesex county —Revauti
Kearney, John Ratoon.
Town/hip of Souilt Brunfzoick, Middlesex county—
Isaac Vanpeit.
Ttwnfh'p of Woodbridge, Middles ex county —John
Conway, John G. W.ill.
The city of New-Brunjtoich, and northward of the
townjhip of Brunfwicky iti Midd/ejix cvunty-+-]ohn
Neilfon, J >hn Bayard, Mofea Sco«t, Anthony
W, White, Lewis Dunham.
Col. John Bayard, was chosen Chairman,
and Ri char d Stockton, Sfcretary.
The circular letter from the Committer of
Ncw-Brunf\vick, and the Ncw-Brunfwick re
solves, were read.
The Delegates of the several Townflv.ps above
mentioned, appeared and produced their cre
dentials and inftru&ions, which were publtcly
read and approved of. A number of othtt citi
zenj of the said counties, and of the city of
New-Brunfwick, also appeared in theii* private
capacities.
Every pr wss callcd-upnfi te deli
ver hit fcntimenu upon the fubjc&'of rfic miM
!nR-
The following gentlemen wefe-then appoint
ed a committee to prepare and report refolutioni
to be submitted to this meeting,viz. — The Rev.
Dr. Witherfpoon, the Rev. Dr. S. S. Smith, Col*
John Bayard, Col. Lewis Dunham, and Richard
Stockton, Elquire.
The committee withdrew to prepare their re
port—The committee returned, and reported
the following resolutions ; which, after being
fir ft generally and then separately reaTi and ma
turely considered, were adopted.
Rtjblvtd, i ft. That the commercial, agricultu
ral and mechanical intercfts of these counties,
are fully rpprefentcd in this meeting.
2(ily. That we feel ourselves happy under the
cxifting government of the United' States, and as
far as our observation extends, an entire fatisfa*-
tion with the present administration prevails
among all clafles of citizens in the State of New-
Jerky.
3 d Iy. Thar altho' vigilance with regard to the
xecurive departments of government be lauda
ble, and a virtue in republics ; yet calumny and
faflion arc vices, and tend to the fuhveifioit of
tha* liberty whieh they profefs ta support.
4thly, That the proclamation of the Presi
dent, enjoining on the citizens of the Uctfited
States a conduct friendly and impartial towards
the present belligerent powers of Europe, was a
meafurc well-timed and prudent, jufl and con
flitmional ; wifely calculated to promote the
welfare and preserve the peace of this country.,
sth. That an exa£t and uniform obfervince of
existing treaties, and of the terms of neutrality*
enjoined in said proclamation, is both our druty
and intcreft ; arid.that we will use all proper
means to difcouragcand bring to justice, every
pcrfon who (hall contravene the and to
preserve in' its 'fijll energy that efficiency Qf go
vernment so neceflafy to our honoi, our (alety
an<s our happmefs.
6th. That the Minister fiom the Frcnchße
public had a right to judge for himfelf, whfther
that proclamation in any part was contrary ro
the right! of France by treaty with us «*r not ;
that ;f he thought it was, he ought to hdve' ap
plied by memorial to the Secretary of State, arid
if the answer given him was not famtattory,* he
had a right to fend it to his_conftituents, re
ceivetheir dire&ionsfor But,
7th. Minilfcer to threaten, or attempt
an appeal, as it ajSpArs has been done, trmt* tty
conttuuent authority of this eoudtty to t"he peo
ple at large, is an of the highe'ft inlolerice
and injuft:c», and an insult, nor only to the exe
cutive authority, thro' which the Union fpcaks
to fuqh Mirtiftei, but.to the whole people of the
United States. , , ■ «
8 h. That we fully expc&, and rely forrt on
the wifSom and.fortityde ot the Executive gf
the United Siares, that such condutt will meet
with the treatment it deserves.
9th. That in the present predicament of the
United States, no citizen under the pretended
right of expatriating himfelf at pleasure, le
gally enter on board any yc/Tel of war w\th afi
intention to commit hoftilines against any power
in amity wuh us; because, as no ;aw cxilts ac
knowledging right and prescribing the
of expatriation, the offended power has no
means ot discriminating the expatriarrd from
the real citizen, and the whole comrßunuy is
liable to be involved for the crime of one ; the
laws of nature and nations, therefore, and the
principlesot fociety,annul such pretended rights,
and criminate such a&ions in the existing cir
cumstances of the United States,
10th. That we sincerely pray for the fuccefsi
of the cause oif liberty in France, and in all n?-
tions, freed from the evils of licentiousness; but,
as it is not in our power to render- her effe&ual
aid by embarking with her in the present war,
and as we are not required thereto by any treaty,
the ftri&eft neutrality is our wisest and mott ho
norable conduct.
, ith. That Eli (ha Lawrence, Esq. Vice Preli
dent of this State, is entitled to our ackDow-t
ledgments for hi» early attention to the procla-,
(nation of the Prefidcnt of the United States. '
itth. That these refolvei be publilhed in thq
public piycrt.
Signed bv order of the meeting, r
JOHN BAYARD, Chairman, t
535
Philadelphia, Sept. ja.
The [offowing Jk'Ach contains a jlatrment of the
travfadlions in Frante y m rented lit the proceed
ings of the National Convention, in June
A letter of the 6th June to the President
informed that Charrier, the chief of tfhe
revolvers in La Lozere t with his aid de camp
La Porte were taken prisoners.
Barrere prrtpofed to fend hostages to the
departments for the security of the arretted
members— opposed by Robtrfpiei*e the
younger—and was not agreed to. He pro
flowing up the decre'e of arrest, by
the- measures.—June 9, tbelol
lowino letter was read
<l BonrdcauXy June 6, at midnight.
4< Citizens Representatives,
" The derails of your fitting of the 3d of
this month arse known in this city, and cries
of fury and vengeance resound in all our pub
lie places, and even within the place of our
meeting. A gerferal movement of indigna
tion'and despair hurifes all the citizens to
their fe&?ons, and deputations throng around
us. There is no defpprate/meafure which is
not proposed to us. We cannot answer for
the corf feq tie nces-of this transport."
Dtirant-Mallanei'aid, that in order to know
the public opinion <Jn the late events, al> the
addresses and all letters relating to-them
ihpuM b« read- .
Levaflfeur opposed this, observing, that all
theflf addeffevwerefigned with names, which
indicated that they came from rich people,
and confequcntly from suspicious persons, as
the real Sans Culottes cannot write. The
Convention decreed, that all addiefles fliould
be referred to the committee of public fafety.
A secretary read the following letter :—
" Rennes, June 6.
department of Jile and .ViUaiuc,
hive jaft learned with indignation and t*rrur,
the a> reflation of (everal reprefimtatives ot
the people. The conftituttd authorities and
ail the citizen? immediately met, and drew
up an address, the principles of which they
will support until death, and decreed the de
parture of an armed force—We have sent
youa eopyof thei'i and decree."
This address was read, and the decree'of
the department of the Isle «f Villaine, for
raiftnt a battalion to go to Paris.
Next follows the address from Rennes,
which contains fubftantialiy, the lentiments
contained ih the address of the arrested mem
bers to the French nation.—See Gazette of
the 4|h inft. A "4 , , r * •
To this address is annexed a decree of the
adininiftrative and constituted budies of th£
city of Rennet, for railing an armed force to
march to 44 to reieafe the Convention
ftonj the oppreffiori of the anarchists." The
battalion to be raifcd by this city was to have
a tri-coloured flag with, Liberty and Kqualily,
infeqbed qn one fide, and hatred of Kfyalty
arn( Anarcjiyt on the,other. The popular foci-
&enngs \< r as dlfTolved by an aimed
These papers were referred to the
committee of fafety* The depaitment of
Finifteere no longer acknowledges the Com
mi/liopers of the Convention,
Wednafdav, June IX —Accounts were read
in the Convention, of great commotions i'n.
the city of Bourdeaux, in consequence of the
an eft of the members. The fame day an
account of the taking of Saumur by tbe roy
alilts od the totb was received. ;In qorife.
quenceof these details of the proceeding', of
the infnrgentS" vigoroifrous measures were
adopted by'the municipality of Paris, to put
that city into a poftuTe of defence, and to ic
inforce in the departments.
A pronofition was made in the Convention
on the 9th June by Thuriot—-That the Frejict]
{honld be invited to observe a Civic, Lent t'o£
the month of to lower the price, of
provifions.—'Referred to the committee of
public fal'ety—The Convention ..hps' decreed
that the troops of the line (hall be .incor.po;
rated with the volunteers—On th'q tgth June
a letter wa< read from Santerre, in which he
faj'Sj—" Ido not (peak of our umfortunes,
n«y t if'ttn?-aftion of the 9 rh —although we
fought Sfi-iri in ft IMP fllftlillftl a
considerable fire from these vagubont)% for fix
hours'-'They are j nil ly named the MmyS of
for Ilu.-y steal, murder, violate,
and pillage, in the iiaxnc of Louis XVII. and
.of God." ... i
. . Junt so.—Complaints were macj& .of the
Administrators of the Opera, because they bad
refufed to play the Siege of Thionviltc. The
-Council General . relieved, that tiiif piece
(hould be played gratis, and folcly for tbe
amusement of the Sam fabiles.
has been appointed Minister for
Foreign Atfairs.
Department of State.
I HEREBY Certify, that I have received
.official communication of a Decree of the
National Convention of France, whereof the
following is a translation
44 Decree #f the National Convention of
the 23d oI May, which declares that the ves
sels of tlx United Srates are not comprehend
ed in tine purvieu of the decree of the 9th of
May.
Rational Convention, after having
heard tbe report of it's committee of public
fafe'ty, wilhing to maintain the union eftab
lifted between the French Republic and the
United States of America, decrees that the
vefTels of the United Starts are not compre
hended in Ila d'fpoJttioii\ the purvieu of the
decree ol the 9UI of May, conformably to
the l&th article of the treaty executed the
15th of February 1778. A true copy.
LeBRUN.
Given under my hand, this 9th day of Sep
tember 179 J. .
r TH : JEFFERSO*.
Sunday morniii"lad between threeaiu! four
o'clock n.vjery aim i)ii,"g fire bioki? out Ui tntf
bKiMi'njiTfat kf of iYIK Kennedy's IfaUlV, in S.--
coiul Si r«et,bct\VietnHig'' and ('.lirlimt-Stin t«
which was soon coiniuuiiicacect to Mr. D'iJj
fons Printing-office ai«l otliur. iuiiiiiiiigs cuir
tiguomi-.The confined fiuiation of the fire
rendered tte fxcrtipnj. of the citizen* u»2N
vailing, tiii great deilrtirtion of property had
taken ptaco— all the back buildings of Mr.'
Kennedy, and fevera! others and their con
tents being entirely eonfnined, Mr.'Dob'or'a
Office nearly .in'the fame fituatiou. The ci
tizens displayed rteir ufiial fpii it ai«t alacrity
011 this occafioi?.. The officers and rcn tioiri
the French frigate La Prtcicujc, arid
Ihip La VilU.it L'Orient, trn-rit
ackiiovyleijjrtwnts sot their Jalr.efctffjy and
elfential on this occjg
brought their engines with by means
of the hose, conveyed Uve water through
("moke and flames to ,th<j-'veiy spot whe« the
fire raged; Mr, Do'vbn is peculiarly indsbf
cd ta thele intrcpuj, funs of Neptune for the
preferyation of iiis dwelling boute—a". it was
extremely difficult and entirely itupqilible iq
foine directions•Bk'nig tlie laree city engine*
in iinmediate with the fire.—Two
persons were ktlieaiat the time of the fire,
by the sudden falling of a brick wall, and
feme others wounded.—The loss of the fnf
fertrs, Mr. Kennedy in particular, fa- very
great—and that of Mr. Dobfon is. heavy, as he
had a very large amount in types, JKHtX
pofed and dellroyed.
The fujferers the above fire, and other??,
Who were in imminent clanger, have publicly,
and perfonallv acknowledged their obligations
to their fellow-citizens, and particularly to.
the French seamen, for their benevolent and
spirited exertions whereby the flam,el wer£
arretted in their course, and great property
prefer ved,
The ?.layor lias informed the citizens—
That from rlie ic turns made to him, and
which have been pretty accurate, the num..
bsr of perfojjs-wliifh.have been taken off by
the prevailing disorder do not. exceed one*
hundred and forty from theJi; ft death which
happened, to the tecond jnftanr.
The Mayor has also in formed the citizens
that the African Society have humanely a- ,
greed to furnifh nurses for the lick—apply trt
Absalom Jones of William Gray, members of
said Society.
If appear* from the Gazette?;, that the pri
zes. captured andfent into the feverat iitafdi
by the privateefs'beyrinKFrenCli.Comtniffons,
have been fitted out jn uny part of rh*
union have beeh 'Teized By the reli'eifive Go*
vernprs, to jnftru&ions fr'prn the
Prelidcnt .of the United States.
The Governor has jfl'iied ndw inltrvttjjfns
to A , k(q. .. Health-oif.fer of
this port-r-'u.which l e if, ciiretfed to.be vij;i»
lant in regard to in the,
and to,ew\PX additji/>i)ji mejns to prevent
the introduction .of malignant diftsiinptus hy
sea. . ;
The (hip Belvidere arrived at New <York*
frozn Londna r laiLSujUla.y. She U.*>d 41 tVflya
paiTage ft om the Laiid's end—and hav proba
bly brought fom« news—The New-York pa
pers of Monday, however, contain none.
By letter* r;«)»««> io iown-4rom-~
daie<j the it
[uririxkrfH 4o*<lKNjp*TiiJkch on }«nie,
and r tii»t. Nip* was evacuated" by the Fieiifh,
upon the approach of th« SpanifU with
£reat loss. ' J V '/ ■
The Spanjlli ( fltet of 30 mfo of >wir w»s
ed'% the = bfifiltyttts'7 I'aYJ of ihc. tijie iiv ufcii
MfediteiriliWaii."'' '" 11 1 " ''
' I'aft Wa4 the
commencing tWHiWlng of'theF , Er)R**t'fif l f4
Lottery ; from the prep(ifatlon» l Which w?
are informed had been lrialiW, eft to
hear in a few 4aysthirt'tWb\itmelj i biKan - at
the time appointed. ' " . I
Yesterday the Prefidortf i( ' Hile "Un tetJ
States left town, on a vifif to j?l6urit Vernon.
_. . .-I'iV-fiO ir.:; t. it -'D.o, . .
There 13 a hf Ipirit
which in times ujnan
ifeftpd in the cbnduh nf jo/he. oerfons—
While /ear jpetrifle*oFjjti? J v Pnd, th?fe
heroically eqcouufe 1 £veryri|k ipjdjtfcharging
May a qiu;i^pi®-by favor
and r award* thoft jiiittpw" ioiti qf Galen who
have not deferred 1 bays
promptly obrfyeft ousjof {fie ions and
daughters of affliftjoh-rattit may Virtue, drop
a tear to tjie nJeVri/jry Sftnofe Who have fej-
viftimjfa the yafls'of (jtity and com.
|>alCun. .
COMMUNICATION.
The conduct of the revilers of our govern
ment is as absurd as it is impudent—for fonie
time the cry wa', the fen ft oj the people is rot
to be collected from, the irhahitarts of'the fetports—
and these citir-ens were called old Tories, Spe
culators, Btrtifh Merchants, CJJice hunters, i?c—
hut what irthemne,fince it appears that th»
agricultural inlereft - haye discovered that
they have as higf. a sense of the importance of
neutrality and peace, as the mechanical and
pommerqial parts of the community?—Th«
following compliment 011 th« understanding
and proceedings of the people at large on this
pccafion, to be found in the usual repository
of liraHar productions, the National pazctte
of the 4th instant :
" By the help of your name,
I'll raise a hell flame ;
For stockholders, fools, and addrelfcrj.
Each Township will vie,
To confirm the d i lie.
And we fliall be with tarefTes."
Died, Dr. Jamis Hutchinson, an eminent
Phyfroian o»thi»
in the_tundf a;>pear» to bjjflf.
pended.—ln our last were fuhliihed the latest
prices r\t which any confrkrabl* funi* badbaen
bought.Treasury Department,
Amgufi 27, 1793-
NO TIC C.i> hereby given that i»opstait will
be received imiil lht ijb day of OA>ber
next, inelufively, by David Henly at Knonville,
in the lerriiory iouih Weft of theOtnoj InlllM
supply ot all rauoot which may be required for
the ufa ps (be Uoucd Stats», tram Itairldiy of
January to Hk thirty-Sift day of December,
1794, both dayt incltifive, at the plaeea, and?
within the diftrUb hereafter mentioned, via.
1. At any place or placet from the mouth of
the River Teneffee to Oecochappo or Bear
Creek, on the said River inclusively*
«. At any place or placet from the mouth of
the rivw** Cumberland to Naihvillc, on the said
river, and "S Naftiviile. .
3. At any j7k.ee or placet wtthtn thirty miles
of said Nashville I? the weftwara
or northward theredf,
4. At Bledfoe'tLick.oT any place or placet
between the said Lifck Nashville.
*. At any place or places irom Uledfoe's Lick
to the crof&ng of Cumberland civer, along the
new Trace, at or near the great SaU Lick, and at
the said eroding place over GUmberKnd river.
6. At any place or the laid tracts
from the eroding of Cumberland river to the
mouth of Clinch river, and at the said mouth of
Clinch river.
7. At ajiy place or placet between the laid
month ot Clinch a*d Knoxville, arid at Knox
-3; AtKny place or places on the north-wrft
e*n frontiers of Wafliingtou and Hamilton dif
tr'.£fi, io the Territory South of the Ohio, fiom
|V mouth of Clinch to the Virginia line.
q At any place or places on the (outlier n
frontiers of the kid d.drifts of Wellington and
Hamilton.
10. At any other place or places in the tern
tory South of the Ohio, unit herein mentioned
The rations to be supplied are toconfmol the
following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour, -
One pound of beef, or £ of a pound of pork,
Half a ji»l of brandy, rum or whilky,
One quart of fait
Two quarts of vinegar r loorit ioni.
Two pounds of soap f
Onr pound of candles j
The rations are to be furniftied in such quan
tities, at that there shall at all timet, during the
said term, be fufßcient for the consumption of
the troops at each fort or other stationary poll,
which is or may be eftabl'fhed for the space of
at least thre« months in advance, in good and
wholesome provisions, if the fame (hall be re
quired.
It is to be understood in each cafe, that all
losses sustained by the depredations of the ene
mies, or by means of the troops of the United
States, (ball be paid for at the prices of the ar
ticles captured or deftroved, on the depofi'ions
of two or more creditable chara6ter c , and the
cernficatfcof a comrniflioned officer, ascertaining
the circumftancct of the loss, and the amount of
the nrticlet for which compensation it claimed.
Those who may become proposers are re
qut fted transmit without delay to the Secre
or Treasury duplicates of their. propofalt.
>pofala wijl be at Knox
>c • -rfaid 4 where the said David Henly will
make known the offer which is accepted, and
will conclude the contra#.
Trealuvy Department,
jiugt/Jl 10, 1793.
NOTICE is hereby given, that Propol'als
will be received at the Office of the Se
cretary of the Treasury, until the 14th day
of September next inclusively, to furniih by
contrast ,the fallowing articles of Cloathing,
for the life of the Unilcd States, via.
4.800 Hats,
j, 120 Stocks,
5,120 Stock-Clasps,
50,480 Shirts,
5,120 Veils,
5,120 Coats,
9,600 Woollen Overalls,
9,600 Linen ditto,
19,200 pairs of Shoes,
9,600 pairs of Socks,
3,1 2") Blankets,
340 Caps,
320 pairs of Leather Breeches,
640 pairs of Boots,
320 pairs of Spurs,
640 pairs of Stockings,
1,523 Rifle Shirts.
The cloathing to be delivered at the city
cf Philadelphia ; one fourth pai tof the whole
number of suits on or before the ; 15th of Fe
bruary, one fourth 011 or before the 15th of
April, and the remaining half on or before
the 15th of June, 1794.
The articles must be agreeably to fueh pat
terns as lhall be diretted by the Secretary for
the Department of War. Payment will be
made as soon as the whole of the articles (hall
have been delivered. epti4S.
War Department,
■dugufi !ft, 1793.
Information is hereby given L aii the
Military Invalids of the United States, that
the sums to which they are intitled for fix months
of their annual pension, frnm the 4th day of
March last, and which will become due on the
sth5 th of September next, w>H be poi<j 00 the fa id
day by the Commissioners of the Loans, with
in the States refpeftively under the usual regu
lations.
By Command of the
President of the United States.
H. KNOX, Secretary at War.
N. B. The Printers in tie rtfp'Mive States a*e
feque/led to publifli the aiove in their aew/fiafer s for
the Jpace of two months.
TICKETS
la the FEDERAL CITY LOTTERY,
May be bid at SAMUEL COOPER'S Ferry.
To the Public.
THE Eultor of the Gazette of th* United
States, proposes the Paper,
under that Title, every Evening, Sunday's
excepted.
To render it interesting as a Daily Publi
cation, it Ihall contain foreign and doniettic,
commercial and political Intelligence Es
says and Observations, local and general :—
Maritime information Current of
Merchandize and the Public Fund». Also a
luminary of the proceedings of and
of the Legislature of thi^^tate':—with a
Iketch of Congressional Debates," &c.
AovEiTtaNC favors will be gratefuljy re
ceived. f ■ ***
TERMS.
To be printed on paper of the demy size ;
bat a larger size lha.ll be fubftitutedin Decem
ber next.
The price Six Dollars per Annum, to be
paid half Yearly.
When a fufficient number of Subfcribefs is
obtained, the Publication (ball commence.
In the interim, the Gazette will l>e pubViHi
ed twice a week as ufu&l.—Subfcription* are
refpeftfully solicited by the Public's humble
fervaut,
JOHN FENNO.
Subscriptions are received at the City Tavern,
South Second Stjeet—by Mr. Dobfon, at the Stone
Houje—by other perjons who are in pojjejfion oj Jub
fenption paper and by the Editor» at kit nquft*
So. 34, North Fifth-Street.
THE EDITOR
MOST earneflly requtfls those •/ his diflant Sub
tribr.rs who are in arrears for the Gazette, tQ make
payment asJoonsi pojjible.—Thofe persons who have
receivedfubfcription money on his account are dtfired
to remit the fame. The arrearages for the Gazette
have accumulated to aferious amount—Serious, as
they are the only resource to dif charge
engagements incurred in the p/ojecution
penjivepublication. Philadelphia, Jun< t6.
Seat of War.
For Sale, at M. CAREY's Store,
No. 118, Market-street,
A Sheet Map of the
French, Austrian and Dutch Netherlands, in
which the progress ot' the present War may
be traced. Price three eighths oja dollar.
And a Map of the Three Northern DHtrifts
of France, divided into Departments.
P> ice i of a dollar.
Vlaps of the United
States :—Any public spirited gentlemen, pof
felttd of materials for correcting and improv
ing the Maps of the several States, will lay
M. Carey under very particular obligations,
by communicating them. He is in immediate
want of some for New-Jersey and Delaware ;
of w.iich States he is now preparing Maps.
Guthrie's Geography:
The subscription for this wo k will be con
tinued open, at the present rate of twelve
dollars, till the firft day of November next J
after which, it will be raised to fourteen dol
lars-
Augujl 14.
District oj Pennsylvania, to wit.
TK E IT REMEMBERtD - lh2t on
(is) ihe thirteenth day ot August, in
\ ' '/ the eighteenth year of ihe Indepen
v dence of the United States of America,
THOMAS DOBSON, of the said Diarid, hath
deposited in this Office the Title of a Book, the
Right whereof he claims as Proprietor, in the
woids following—to wit:
" Transactions of the College of
14 Physicians or Philadelphia.—Vol. I«
\* Part I. Non Jibi fed toti."
In conformity to the Ad of the Congress of
the United States, irttitulec), <l An Ast for the
Encouragement of Learning, by securing the
Copies of Maps, Charts and Books, to the Au
thors and Proprietors of such Copies, during
the ti&cs therein mentioned.'*
- CAtDWEUytorlMji
City of Washington.
January 71b, 1793.
A NUMBER of Lots in this City will be o\
fered for sale atau&ton, by the Commi
fioners, on the 17th 4ay of September next.-
One fourth part of the purchase money ia "to be
paid down, the residue at three equal annual pay
ments with yearly interefton the whole princi
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk to the
Extras of an Ast ot the General Atfembiy of
Maryland, concerning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and the City ot Washington.
44 Be it tna&cd, That aay foreigner may by
deed or to be made. take and hold tanas
within that paYt 0} theJatd Territory which lies with
in this State, in the fame manner as if he was a citi
zen of this State ; and the fame lands may be con
veyed by him, and transmitted to and be inherited by
his heirs or relations, as if he and they were citizens
of thi> State: Provided, That no foreigner fhal! y
in virtue hereof be entitled to any jue thei or other
privilege of a citizen.*'
J an - '9'
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, Niw-York,
THESubfcriber intending to cpnfine himfclf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMlSSlON,begaleave toof
fer hisfervices to his friends and others, inthe
line ofa Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their business, may depend
upon having it tranfa&ed with the utmost fide
lity and dispatch.
Orderr from Philadelphia, BoAon, or any
other part of the United States, wil 1 be ftri&ly
attended to. >
(tXJ ' LEONARD BLEECKER
536
By THOMAS 10HNMN, DAVID
STUART,it DANIEL CARROLL,
Esquires,
Commissioners appointed by Government to
prepare the Public Buildings, &c. within tlie
City of Wajkxvgton, for the reception of Con
gress, and tor iheir permanent residence after
the year 1800—
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City.
50,000 Ticket 7 dollar, are 350,000 dollari.
LIST OF PRIZES, vii.
I Supei b Hotel, with baths,)
out houses, &c.&c. to ci»ft J
1 Ca(h Ptize
l ditto
1 ditto
i ditto
2 ditto
10 ditto
20 ditto
ioo ditto
200 ditto
400 ditto
1,000 ditto
15,000 ditto
•6,737
SB> BUnkt
50,000
By this scheme at leaji the amount of the tick
ets will return to the fortunate adventurers, and
yet the federal City will gain its object thereby,
in a magnificent building designed both for pub
lic and private convenience.
Although some expence must neceflarily at
tend the conducing of the lottery, (which ex
pcnccwill be taken from the principal priK)thc
Coinmiflioners having agreed to prefcnt in re
turn a tufficient quantity of excellent free-ftone,
togtlhcf with ihe best adapted lot» sot the hotel
and for the out-houfcs, the value of the lottery
entire may be fairly rated at Jomttntng more than
par: In this important inftancc it will be found,
on examination, to exceed all the lotteries that
have ever been offered to the Public in this or
perhaps in any other country. The keys of the
Hotel, when compleat, will be delivered to the
fortunate pofffrffor of the ticket drawn aagaiofl
its number.— Al! the other prizes will be paid,
without deduction,in one monthafterthc drawing, by
the City Treasurer at Walhinglorl, or al such
Bank or Banks as may be herealter announced,
for the conveniency of the fortunate adventurers.
The drawing will commence on Monday the
6th of September next, »t the City of Walhing
ton.
Ticketa may be had of Col. Wm. Dickens, City
Treasurer of Wellington ; Thaxer & Bjrtfel, of
Charleston, South-Carolina j Gideon Denijon, Sa
vannah; Messrs. James Wejl £# Co. Baliunore ;
Mr. Peter Gilman, Boston; and at such other
place* as will be hereafter published.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given for thebeft Plan of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hbt and cold
Batbs, Stables, and other out houses, ijprefevted
tmor bejort the toth oj <iprii next-, ami a pre
ference will be given to the Artist for a Con
tract, provided he be duly qualified to
com pleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be ercfied, will
be a corner lot of about 90 by 200 feet, with a
bcick avenue to the stables, &c. Stftions and
estimates of the expense will be cxpefted
with the elevations, &c. compleat ; and 50,000
dollars mult be regarded by the Architect as the
utmost limit in the expense intended lor this
purpose. S. BLODGET,
Agent for the affaiis of the City
\awsw
March, 61793,
Hercule De Sercey,
from Ltogtne, IJluiti oj St. Domingo,
M AKES and fells all fo>t» of Mugs Jacks,
Porringers, Cups,Stew-Pans, Lamps, &c.
in Tin, plain or japanned—He also pnends old
tip wqrk. . Aji be worki cheap, he bopci for the
public rooouiagcmcnt.
No..a®, K,icc.ftreet, near Front-street.
June*?. .
HERCULE DE SERCEY,
Donoinquc, travaille
en fer Blanc, de tome forte de manieres a
corcvmande et a bon marche.
A Philadelphie, ce 22 Juin, 1793.
No. 23, Race-street, pres From-ftreet.
INSURANCE COMPANY.
Philadelphia, July ift, 1793.
NOTICE is hereby given to the members of
the insurance Company of North Ameri
ca, that the Dircttors have declared a dividend
(to this day) of fix per cent on the amount of the
firft instalment, and of one per cent per month,
on the sums paid towards the second and third
instalments, calculating from :he firft day of
the month following that in whitfh these pay
ments were made. The Dividend will be paid
to the Stockholders or their Reprefcniatives, at
the Company's Office, (No. 119, south Front-
Street) at any time after the 7th inft.
EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'ry.
As the members of this Company ure much
dispersed throughout the United States, the Printers
in the J'everalJlates are requejied tcfigive the akuve a
place in their netvjpapers.
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Stone HouJe t No. 41, foutk Second-Street^
Medical Tranfa&ions
College of Physicians
OJ Philadelphia :
Volume I. Part I.
Price in boards One Dollar.
Atfo lately publijhed ty T. Dobfon y
Dr. UNDERWOOD'S TREATISE
On ihc diseases of Children, with general di
re&ions for the management of infant* from
the birth, adapted both tor the life of Medi»
cal Pra&itioners and private Families.
TWO VOLUMES IN ONE,
Price *ne delicti natly bcuxd.
50,000
25,000
20,000
15,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
5,000 art
1,000
500
too
5°
25
20
lO
10,000
10,000
20,0C0
150,000
Dollars 350,06©
or THE
TtfKASCRY DEPARTMENT, Jtrne*6,t SW .
NOTICE ishereby given, that p<<>poUl« w;ll
be received al the office of the- Secretary of
tbe Treafory, Unlit ihe fourteenth day ot Vp»
timber next inclulively, for the fiapply ot all
Ration* Which may be required for the use of
the United States, from (he lull day of January
to the thirty-fi'ft day of December 1794, both
daya inclotive, at the placet, and wnkio lb»
diftii&s hereafter mentioned, vie.
At any place or places betwixt York-Towu
and Carlisle, in the ftace of PennlyUania, and
Pittfburgh,iat Pitt(burgh,Yol k-town&Carlifle.
2. At any place or places fru»m Piuiburgh t«
4he mouihof Big Beaver Creek, and at the mouth
of Big Beavtr Crtrfr. •
■ Al any place or placea from the f»M noat|
(b the upper falU of the said Big Heave#, ud at
the upper faHa.
4. At any place or placea from the f<id »ppw
falli to Ma boning, and at Mahoning.
5. At any place or placca from the said Ma
honing over to theHeatJ Navigation of the rivet
Cayahoga, »nd atthe laid Head Nav gation.
6., At auy place or placo trom the said Head
Navigation to the mouth of the said river Caya
boga, and atthe said mouth.
7. At any place or placea betwixt the mouth
of. the Biff Beaver Creek, to the mouth of the
rivr Mulkingum, and up the said river to the
Tufcerowaa, and at the Tufcarowaa, and thenctf
over to the Cayahoga river, and thence down thtf*
said river to its mouth.
8. At any place or places betwixt the mouth
of the river Mulkingun anri the tnouth of the
Scioto river, and at the mouth of the said river
Scioto.
9. At any place or places betwixt die mouth
of Scioto river & the mouth of the Great Miami,
at the month of the Great Miami, and trom
:henc« »o the rapid* or the falls of the Ohio, and
at the said rapids.
10. At any nlace or places betwixt the mouth
of the Great Miami, op the said Miami to and
at Pique Town.
i». At any place or places from FortWafti
ington to Fort Hamilton, and at Fort Hamilton.
At any place or places from Fort Hamilton to
Fort St. Clair, and at Fort St. Clair.
12. At any placc or places from Fort St. Clair
to Fort Jcfferfon, and at Fort Jcfferfon.
>3. At any placc or places from Fort Jcfferfon
to the fiejd of aaion of the 4th of November,
1791, and at the said' field ol adtion.
14. At any placc or places from the said field
of a£Hon to the Miami Villages, and at the
Miami Villages. _ '
i£. At any place or places from thefaii Mi
ami' Villages to the falls of the Miami river,
which empties into JLake Eric, and at the sard
falls, and from thence Co its mouth, and at its
mouth.
16. At any place or placcs from the mouth of
the said Miami river of Lake Erie to Sandufky
Lake, and at Sanduflcy Lake.
17. At any place or places from the said San
dufky Lake, to the mouth of the river Cayahoga.
18. At any place or placcs from the mouth of
the said river Cayahoga to Prefque Ific, and at
Prefque Isle.
19 At any place or placcs from Prefque lOe
to the ft ream running into Lake Eric from to
ward* the Lake, *nd ibcncc over to
and at the said J ada.ghque Lake,and thence dowo
the Alleghany river to Fort Franklin.
20. At any place or places from Prefque Isle
to Le Beuf, aud at Le Beuf.
21. At any place or places from Le Beuf to
Fort Franklin, and at Fort Fra&klifl,. and fro*n
thence to Piufburgh.
22. At any place or places from t<he rapids of
the Ohio to'thfc mouth of the Wabafh river, and
from the mouth of the said Wabafh river to the
mouth of the river Ohio.
23. At any plaee or places on the East fide of
the river MifGflippi, from the mouth of the Ohio
river, to the mouth of the Illinois river.
24. At any place or places from the mouth o§
the laid Wabafo river up to Fort Knox, and at
Fort Knox.
85. At any place or places from Fort Knox up
the said Wabalh to Onittanon, and at Ouittanon.
26. At anv -place or places from OuHtanoti,
up the said Wabafh, to the head navigation of a
branch thereof called Little River, and the
, said head navigation of Little River.
27. At any plat e dr placrs from the said head
navigation of Ifittle River over to the Miami ViU
At a«»y ptact Or places from the m«»«*th of
th e river TeneflTee to Occochappo or Boar Creek #
®ii the said river, inclusively.
ag. At any place or plages from the mouth or
the river Cumberland to Nashville, on the said
river, and at Nashville..
30. And at any place or places within thirty
miles ol said Nashville to the Southward, West
ward or Northward thereof.
Should any rations be required at any places,
or within other diftri&s, not fpecified in thcle
proposals, the price of the fame to be hereafter
agreed on betwixt the public and the contra&or.
The rations to be supplied are to conTift of the
following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or } of a pound of pork,
One quart of fait, }
Mwo quarts of vinegar, ( IQO ration ,_
Two pounds ot loap, f r
One pound of candles, )
The rations are to be furnifhed in such quanti
ties as that there shall at all limes, during the said
term, be fufficient tor the consumption of the
troops at each of the said posts, for the space of at
least 3 months in advance, in good and whole
fame provisions, if the fame shall be required.
#It is tobeunderftoodin each cafe,that alllofTc*
fufliined by the depredations of the enemy, or by
means of the troopsof the United States, shall be
paid for at the pi ices of the articles captured or
deftroyed,on the depositions 4 of two or more
creditable characters, and the certificate of a
commiflioned officer, ascertaining (he circum
fiances of the lofs,and the amount of the article*
for which compensation is claimed.
The contratt for the above (upplies will be
made either for one year, or (or two years, as may
appear eligible. Persons disposed to contrail
will therefore confine their offers to one year, or
they may make their proportions so as to admit
an elc&ion of the term of two years.
The offers may comprise all the places
have fpecified ? or a part of yjiem oily.