A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS EY JOH% FENNO, No. 34, NORTH FIFTH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA.
[No. io i of Vol. IV.]
THIS DAY IS PUBLISHED,
By Mathew Carey,
No. 118, Market-Stieet.
Emsillihid with a MA? ot the present
SEAT Of WAR,
No. I,
OF A NEW
SYSTEM OF MODERN
GEOGRAPHY:
OR, A
GEOGRAPHICAL, HISTORICAL. AND
COMMERCIAL GRAMMAR ;
And Present State ot" the Several
KINGDOMS OK THE WORLD.
CONTAINING
I. The figures, motions, an.i distances of the
plinets, according 10 the Newtonian fyftcm
and the'latcft observations.
IL A.general view of the earth conlidercd as a
planet ; with fevers! ufeful geographical de
finition! and problems.
in. The grand dictions of the globe into land
aad w»ier, tominenisjnd ifljndi.
IV. Th» fuifaiinn and extern ot empires, king-
doms, Uates, provinces, and colonics.
V. Thar lit, - o*l, vegetable produc
tions, metals, minerals, natural curiofittcs,
seas, rivers, bays, capes, promontories, and
lakes.
VI, The birds and beasts peculiar to each coun-
try.
VII. Observations on the changes that have
been any where observed upon 'he lace of
nature ftnce the moll early periods of hillory.
VIII. Thehiftory and origin ol nations ; their
forms of government, religion, laws, revenues,
taxes, naval and military lliength.
IX. The genius, manners, culloms, and habits
of the people.
X. Their language, learning, arts, sciences,
manufa&ures, and commerce.
XI. The chief cities, ftruftures, ruins, and at-'
tificial curiofuies.
XII. The longitude, latitude, bearings, and dif
tancesof principal places from Pniladelphia.
TO WHICH ARE ADDED
I. A Gioc t aph id a l Index, with the Names,
and places alphabetically atranjied.
Jl. A Taeli ol the Coins of all Nations,
their Value tn English Money.
111. A Chronological Table of Remark
able Eueius,lrorn the Creation- to ihe picCcm
">!*?•
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, Esq.
The Astronomical Part by Ja,mes Jer
gu»ON, F. R. S.
To which have been add^d.
The late Discoveries of Dr. Herjchel, and
other eminent Astronomers.
THE FIRST AMERICAN EDITION, CORRECT
ED, IMPROVED, AND ORE ATI Y ENLARGED.
The publijher oj this work, thaijiful for the patron
age with which he has been honored, submits the
present number to the infpeflion of his Jellow-ci
tiipis, and lays before ihera
The terms of publication :
I. This geography shall be publ'fhed in for
ty-eight weekly numbers, each containing twen
ly-four pages of letter press,
11. In the course of publication will be de
livered the following maps :
l. The world. 2. Europe. 3. Sweden,
Denmark, Norway, and Finland. 4. Ruflia.
fl. Scotland. 6! England and Wales. J. Ireland.
46. France. 9. Seven United Provinces. 10. Au
ilrian and French Netherlands. 11. Germany*
19. Switzerland. 13. Poland. 14 Spain and
Portugal. 15. I-aly. Turkey in Europe*.
XI. Aha. 18. China. 19. Hindortan. 20. Af
rica. 21. 22. British Amc
-1 icd. 23. Well-Indies. 24. Sourh America,
25- PUu'ilphere of the earth. *26. Countries
round the north pole. * 27. Dilcoveries made
b\ Captains Cooke and Clerke. * 28. New-
* 29. MjafT cjiufetts. *30 Con
necticut. * 31. Rhode-Island. * 32. Vermont.
*33 New-York. * 34. New-Jerfev. *35.
Pemifylvania and Delaware. * 36. Maryland.
* 37-. Virginia. * 38. North-Carolina. * '39.
South-Carolina. * 40. Georgia. * 41. The
Spheie. * 42. The Copernican system.
N, B. All the maps marked with Oars are
added to this edition, exclusive of those in the
fail LoiuJon edition.
Thai no difappoiot ment may arise from sub
scribers expecting what the publilher neither
)«"onnft s nor is able to perform, he gives this
«aily and explicit notice, that <?f some of the
it will be impollible tor him to give maps
fully accurate,' no late (urveys having been made ;
and it is hardly neeeffary to oMfive, that it falls
not wiihin his plan to go to the exprnfe of lur
v-rys. Bui in every instance; he will avail him
(cliof the bejl materials extent: And such e»»-
<iddit»r)iis, as his utraoft exertions
fan pr«xure, (hill be made.
JII. The geography of tVucUnited States, is un
dertaken by gentlemen ot literary abilities,
who have engaged to give a snore full and fa
tisfafloiy account of it than any ever publish
ed. h will extend to 250 or 300 pages, al
though in the Bntifh edition, and even in
that of 1792, it makes only about 30.
IV. Should li e work exceed lory-eight num
bers, the fur plus will be delivered gratis to
the fubfci vlvts.
V. The price ot cach number will be a quarter
dollar, to be paia ou delivery.
Saturday, May iB, 1795.
VL S ucb fubd£r»b«p 3$ do not choose to r. ct i-. e !
the in utunbers, ,are to pa.y three dol
lars at the tunc ot Cubfcrtbiug.
The puntfcr, anx>ous to rende* this wo'lc as
pe»tett as the nature ot it will allow, moitcar
neftly requ that such gentlemen, throughout
the United States, as have it in their oow< r, will
furnilh him with documents for cone£tmgthe
patt errors in the geography ol Amenc-t, <md
for furnifliing a more complete system ot geo
graphy than has yet appeared.
The title page, lift ot fubicriber's with
Ihe account of the Newtonian fyftcm, &c. &c.
will be given in the 48 h nuinl^rs
N. B. The subscribers, and the public in ge
neral are requested to confidt r the following ve
ry material circumstance—The,. London quarto
cditiyn 15 lold here, tor fifteen dollars, although
it contains only 25 maps and plates, and of the
Geography of the United Slates, as has been ob
served above, only about 30 pages- —whereas,
Carey's edition \yijl foniairi 32 mapsand plates,
and have two hundred pjgesof letter pre fs more.
And it need not be observed, that the fevenieen
maps to be added, are of more importance to
Americans b) far, than the 25 London ones.
The obfervauon will apply w »ih equal toice to
the letter press additions.
maps will be p'ublffhcd in inch order of
succession as they are eng'aveo, and directions
will be primed tor the proper manner of pla
cing 1 hem by the bookbinder.
May 18
LAWS OF THE UNION.
SECOND
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT THE SRC ON D SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia,
in thp State of on Monday
the fifth of November, onethoufand
seven hundred and ninety-two.
AN ACT to alter the times and
places of holding the Circuit
Courts in the Ealtern Diitrict,
and in and for
other purposes.
BE itcnafted- by the Senate and Honfe of
Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress afiembled-, That the
spring circuit courts of the eaftcrn diftritt,
instead of being held at the times and places
now eftabli fried by law for holding the feme,
fhtall from henceforth be held at the times and
places fallowing respectively, namely ; for
the district of New-York, at New-York, 011
the fifth day of April; for the diftritft of Con
necticut, at New-Haven, on the twenty-fifth
day of April ; for the diflrict of Vermont, at
V/indfor and Bennington alternately, begin
ning at the firft, on the iath day cdi May ; for
the diftrift of New-Hamplhire,«it Portimoi^tb>
on thq twenty-feventb day of May ; for the
rfmrift of MafFachufetts, at Boflon, on
seventeenth day of June ; and for the dif
trift of Rhode-Iflmd, at Newport, on the
nineteenth day of June. And if any of the
said days lhall happen on a Sunday, the courts,
refpeftively, lha]l commence and be holden
on the day following*
And all causes now pending in the said
courts, and all appeals, procefles and recog
nizances returned, or returnable to the fame,
and all officers,jurors, parties and wijjriefTes,
shall be conformable to this act.
And be it further enacted, That from and
after the expiration of the session of the cir*
cui.t court of the State of North-Carolina,
which is to commence on the firit day-os Jone
next (which fellion shall be held, any thing in
this ast gotwith#anding, at Newberra) the
stated feiHons of" the laid, court ihall be held
at Wake court-houfe,either in the
belonging to the said county, or in I'ome con
venient building contiguous thereto, until
there shall be convenient accommodations
syr tfee laid pucpofc in the city of Raleigh, in
the said State ; after which, and upon its be
ing made so to appear to the said court, the
said court is hereby authorized and directed
at the close of the felfion then depending, to
iiilj-'iirn the laid cou:ttomeet at its next
ftaced feffiorv in the city of Raleigh ; which
said city of Raleigh shall be the
place at which the stated fefhons of the said
circuit c ourt (hall be conftar.tly held.
And be it further enacted, Inasmuch as
there was not a fufficient quorum of judges to
hold the circuit court for the diifr'nt of North-
Carolina for the purpose ot doing business, at
November term one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-two, that it shall and may be law
ful for the diftiia judge of the State of
Carolina to direct the clerk of the said
401
eoutt to issue such process for the purpose oi
h avtfig jurymen summoned to attend the laid
court at the term to commence on the firft
day of June next, as he had before iflued tor
the like purpose returnable to November
term above mentioned ; that the jurymen or
dered by the fa id process to be summoned
(hall be ordered to be summoned in the fame
proportion and from the lame counties as
those jurymen-who were ordered to be sum
moned by the process returnable at Novem
ber term above-mentioned : And the marshal
is to execute the said process, and the jury
men legally summoned in consequence thereof,
are to attend the said court, under the like
penalties for disobedience as if the said pro
cess had lieen ordered to be issued as usual,
by the said court; and the marshal and the
jurvmqn who atfeud the said court (hall be
entitled to the like allowance for their ser
vices refpe&ively. And it is hereby, declared,
that all suits and proceedings of what nature
or Kind soever which have been commenced
in the said court, and not finifhed, Hull be
proceeded on at the ensuing term in the fame
mariner and to the fame effect, as ii the 1 aid
circuit court bad been regularly held at No
vember term aforefaid, and continuances had
foren *,eguJarly held of all such suits and pro
ceedings frt/'ii the said last mentioned term to
tie enJoing term*
JONATHAN TRUMBUI.L. Speaker
oj the tiovfe of Representatives.
JOHN LANGDON, Prejident pro
tempore ot the Striate*
\PPROVF.D, MARCH 2, *799.
GEO. WASHINGTON,
President of the United btatcs.
AN ACT making addition to the
convpenfation of certain Public
Officers.
BE it enacted by the Senate and House of
Rcprefeutatives of the United States of
America in Congress afleaibled, That there
be allowed to the Auditor of the Treasury,
t|ie sum of five bundled cellars ; to the Com
mHConer of the Revenue, the sum of five
hundred- dollars; to the Comptroller of the
flam of two hundred and fifty
(wVWs, STtcHo live Regtftffr nf the Trea iiiJy,
the sum of two hundred and fifty dollars per
annum* in addition to the compen ation al
ready allowed to respectively, to com-'
mence on the firftday of April next, payable
in like manner as the prcfent compeufatipns
are payable.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
oj the. Houft oj Reprefevtathes.
JOHN LANGDON, Pufdwvfiro
tam/wre of .the Senate.
AEBROVED MARCH 2, I
GEO. WASHINGTON.
Prefiderit oj the United States.
Foreign Intelligence.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
March 21.
r r , HE miniiter of liie interior sub-
JL id it ted the propriety of pre
serving peace wi.cn Sweden and Den
mark, oh account of the advantages
of palling the loiind into the Baltic.
He recommended the Convention to
order Come measures to be taken to
prevent American cargoes for France
from being stopped by the Englilh.
Referred to the diplomatic and com>
mert:ial committees.
The committee of finance made a
report, Hating the neceflary expen
ses incurred in I 793,* 604 millions
937 thousand livres, and the conn i
butions of the fame year at 511 mil
lions 500 thousand livres. The ex
pen fes of' 93 may in fonie refpeifts
fuffer a diminution, but again on the
other hand tnuft encreafe in neatly
the fame proportion.
One of the principal caufe3ofthe
gownefs of rcceipt arises from the
inequality of the diib ibution among
the departments. Th'« inequality
has given tifc to remonilrances from
60 at'the departments. They re
commended taking every nieafure
to equalize the public buidesns ;
which are best paiJ when tlaiqted
in justice.
Letter from Valence tu Dumouvie
" General,
" A violent blow on my right
arm prevents my writing myfert".
The infantry having, as you
been repulsed twice, I myfelfcharg
Whole No. 425.]
Ed the enemy at the head of my ca
valry : I patted through a body of
the enemy, and received three fable
cuts oil the head, one of which, than
is however, 1 am told, not. mortal,
has thrown my sCalp over my eyes.
1 am going lo Bruxelles, where (
hope to learn, that nothing has hap
pened to you. if the left ■ had not
given way, the right could have
flood fiim, lamit ill in hopes of
assisting .you if my wound permits
me yet to follow you in this cam
paign. (Signed) VALKNC'K."
After the reading of the difpauhts
from Gen. Dumourierand Valence,
Marat cried out, " This is Hit) the
artifice of treacherous chiefs : when
tinfuccefsful ihey attempt to hide
their mifcondaA by calumniating
the patriotic foMiery. If an; thefiß
have been committed, il is becanfe
ihev have been tniflfd by' iheir trea
cherous officers." Munnurs inter
rupted Marat ; he, however, railing
his voice, laid, " this is the mo-
ment to tear the veil ; «p Vitive no
disciplined troops to give batiie"—
Murmurs re commenced with more
violence. " Let him," said Mazuy
er, " vomit the indecencies and the
venom which devours him"—" My
aim," continued Marat. " is to saVe
the republic. We aught to Confine
ourselves to the defence of our own
territory, and I aflc to be added to
the committee of general defence,
to communicate a plan, the execu
tion of which will render us invul
nerable." The President obfetved,
that every member was at liberty
to communicate his fentimems to
any of the committees.
Lecontre Puyraueau added : "Gb
ferve that the fame man who not
long (ince proclaimed, that the con
vention could not save the republic
because part had 1 not the will and
the other portion not t'j- power,
tells us to day, that we have neither
generals nor troops to oppose out
enemies. What would he lead us
to ?"
The law agairift strangers was
pafied.
March 21 in the evening;,
The foftion of ninety-two, pre
sented to the convention C. Dnple
fis who prtferved Thionville- si rnn
being surprized ; who, attacked l by
10 huft'ars at Sierck, killed 4. and
put the other 6 to flight ; who, en
veloped by 6o intilke'eers, and fee
ing the ax lifted over his head, re
plied to their menaces by the cry
of Success to the French Rept/biic.
The fetftion have decreed him a
civic crown and prelented him with
a sword. The miniftcr at war had
rewarded him with a commifiion ;
the Frefident of the convention ho
nored him with the fraternal em
brace, and he was admitted to the
honors of the fitting, amidst univer
sal applanfe.
A member announced, that re
cruiting went on with the great eft
vigor in the departments of Sevres
and Vendee ; that, the national
guards had attacked the rebels; a
joflice of the. peace of the camon
of St. Maixent, among others, plac
ed hiinfelf at the head of fiity mar
rid men, to inarch againlt the ie
bels. Honorable mention.
Jean Dcbry was elected Prelident.
Aften I'ome opposition a letter jult
received by a roiirier extraordinary
from MarTeilles, was read, nearly as
follows ;
" Ye who voted for an appeal to
the people, your perfidy it at its
heighth. It is in vain that ypa have
expected the fuccels of your base
intrigues with tyrants, leagued a
gainst: liberty ; ihe check we have
ja It fuffered, only deepens ihe grave
which will swallow up all traitors.
Fly the fanc'tuary which you have
too often polluted with your foulPhiladelphia, May i 8.
Thursday, at one o'clock, M. Genes t, Mi
nister from the Republic of France to the
United States of America, arrived in this
citv from Charjefton.—ln the afternoon the
beiis of Chrift-Churctf" were rung on this oc-
cafion
Mr. Genest lias been violently cenftired by
many, for giving commifilons to the priva
teers fitted out ar Charleston. We can assert,
from good authority, that in so doing he has
only complied with the orders of the execu
tive of France who sent him, and that the
eommiUions are in fa ft from that executive
and only filled up by Mr. Genest, which he is
directed to do when called upon for that pur.
pole.
By an arrival at this port yesterday, in 12
Jays from Antigua, we learn that a Britifti
fleet, conlifting of two 90 gun ftiips, and five
74's, under the command of Admiral Gard
ner, arrived jit Barbadoe": the ajth ult.—alfo,
that a fleet of five fail of the line h.is arrived
at Martinique from France.
A letter from Amsterdam dated sth
April fays, certain intelligence had been le
ceived there, that tws Commiffioncrs had
bteen sent from Paris with orders to conduct
Geo. Dnmourier thither—tllat he, apprized of
the detign, had (eized the Commissioners and
sent them to ths Imperiaßfts ; that the French
army had mounted the white cockade and
were inarching to Paris, to restore the old
monarchy, &c." See. The Leydfcn Gazette of
the fame date makes no mention of these
events —the account therefore is mod pro
bably premature.
Wednesday last Mr. J. Ravara was com
mitted to the goal of this city, charged with
being the writer of several incendiary letters,
to different gentlemen, demanding sums of
money, accompanied with threats in cases of
non-compliance. One Guillioux, a hair
drefler, was the melienger sent for the answers
to the letters, which were to be put into the
poft-office. This circumstance led to a dis
covery of the parties.
Tuesday evening arrived the ship Argonaut,
of Marseilles, Capt. Chobert, from China and
the Isle of France, This velTel was bound to
l'Orient ; but not being well informed of the
state of European politics with refpeft to
peace or war, thought it most prudent to make
for this continent. Has had 72 days-pafiage
from the Isle of France, brings a cargo teas,
nankeens, &rc. in value to the amount of 2
million of livres. She was formerly a fri
gate belonging to the Pope palled the St.
Charles; but- now is private property;—
mounts 14 pieces of 12 and 2of 16 pounders. ,
The Hercules, of Boston, failed from the
Isle of France the 27th February.
By a gentleman who arrived here in 24
days from Port-au-Prince, we are informed
of the troubles which happened thqre last
month. Q«iv informant relates, tfi&t~Mr.
Santhonax, the national civil coxnmiffioner,
arrived there in the America, of 74 guns,
with two large frigates, on the 4th of April ;
thatheifTued a thundering proclamation a
gainst the inhabitants, whom he branded with
the term of Counter-revolutionists, and im
puted to them the cause of the infurre<slions
ofthe blacks; that during the sth and 6th
the disputes ran high between the Aristocrats
and Democrats; that on the 7th the national
commilHoners gave orders to the captains and
commanders of the American and French
merchantmen to quit the port, and to retire
out of the reach of the artillery, and get un
der the prote&ion ofthe ships of war. The
Captaifis drew up and signed a pathetic me
morial, and presented the fame to the com
miflioners, remonstrating against the ap
proaching deftruftion of the town ; they were,
however, obliged to comply, and retired out
of the reach of cannon shot, during the 10th
andlith. On the 12th, at nine o'clock in
the morning, the (hip America commenced a
most dreadful cannonade against Foit St.
Clair ; at the fame time the frigates began
to bombard the town, and continued that
dreadful work till the afternoon. The Forts
St, Joseph, St. Clair, and another, returned
the fire with desperate intrepidity. It is
computed that these three ships difchaiged
about balls against the town and forts.
The old men, women and children ran in dif
ferent directions to meet death, 73 °f these
killed on the spot. A cart loaded with
powder blew up in one of the forts, by which
accident 8 persons loft their lives. Towards
the clofeof the day Mr. Borell, a leading man
in the town, made his escape with 7>oo white
men, and 100 blacks, to Jacmel. The
coinmiffioners took pofVeflion, and have fir.ce
been organizing the troops, and imprisoning
the difaffected, 300 of whom are now in jail
there.
At a meeting of the citizens of Philadelphia,
at the State Hpul'e, 011 Thursday evening
last,
Charles Biddle, Esq., was r.nanimoufly
called to tbe chair, and R. H. Dunkin, ap
pointed fecvetary.
On motion, it was resolved unan'moufly,
that a committee of 7 citizens be appointed
to prepare an Address to Mr. Genest, Minister
fom the Republic of France to the United
States; whereupon Meifrs. Ritteuhoufe,Dal
las, Hutchinfop, Du Ponceau, Sergeant, Fox,
and Barton, were unanimoud)' appointed for
that purpose.
Helolved, that a general meeting of the.
citizens be called by public ad vertifements in
tne papers to be held this day at 6 o'clock at
the Stare-House, to receive the report offaid
committee, and ast thereon.
Charles Biddle, Chairman.
A ttc-ft,
Robert Henry Dunkik, Secretary.
% 1 7 .
The following paragraphs are copied from tit,
( H oft on J Independent Chronicle oj the 9 lit tnjl.
To the innumerable rumours against the
French, their defeats, difaiters and retreats,
&c. we have to oppose the teal jads of the
diftielfesof the British nation. It appears
that their credit is in such low estimation,
that the loan of 4 millions and a half cannot
be effe&ed under the enormous rate of 8 per
cent.-»-that the mercantile stability, on
whole support the Ministry has ever relief,
is almost totally annihilated—a number of the
firft houses have flopped payment; and that
all confidence is at an end among the mer
chants—this inuft soon operate among the ma.
nufa<fturers, and the convulsion tliis must oc
caflon, may be better imagined than descri
bed.
The situation of the Britiih nation appears
truly alarming, jnft entering on an expert
five with tlieir finances so deranged, as
to be obliged to give 8 per cent, for the loan
of money to prosecute it—their merchants
and manufacturers commencing Bankrupts—
their fleets unmanned by reason of the com
bination of their independent (earner, in op
poling the pre A-gangs—their internal di£
contents with refpeft to the object of the war
-—the formidable operationsof the Volunteers
in Ireland-—and the immense loss they sustain
by captures.
Gen. Afc.
These circnmftances are fa<sts which can
not be controverted, and bespeak the dif
treflVd state of that nation.—On the contrary,
no iuch circumstances appear agaiuft the
French : Their loans are easily effected—
their finances well regulated nnd adequate—
their navy completely manned, and what
stamps a national flability as it relates to
their commerce, not a French merchant of
any great note, has failed during the whole
controvefy.
These things confidcrcd, we must be led to
conclude, that France is in the moffc pros
perous situation.
Among a variety of prcdidions and anticipations re
publijhed at the present interring period, the fol
lowing has been extruded from a tcork published
in the year 1701 —by Mr. Robert Fleming, an
eminent Scotch Minijler ;
ic There is ground to hope, that about the
beginning of another such century, things
may again alter for the better—for I cannot
but hope, that some new mortification of the
chief supporters of Anti-Christ will then hap
pen ; and perhaps the French monarchy may
begin to be conliderably humbled about that
time ; that whereas the prefeiit French King
takes the fun for his emblem, and this for his
motto, nee pluribus impar— he may at length,
or rather his fuccefTor, and the monarchy it
felf, at least before the year 1794, be forced
to acknowledge, that (in respeCt to neighbor
ing potentates) he is even Jingu/is impar."
Page 53. .*•
We may justly suppose, that the French
monarchy, after it has scorched others, will
ltfeif consume by doing so ; its fire, and that
which is the fuel that maintains it, wafting
insensibly, till it be exhausted at last towards
the end of this century, as the Spanish mo
narchy did before, towards the end of the
lixteenth age." Page 57 58.
Other remarkable extra&s might be marie,
which are omitted on account of their not
applying immediately to the present grand re
volution in France—a work which, if it be of
God, cannot be pverthrown by all the com
bined despots and tyrants of the Universe.
ExtraSs of a letter from England to a gen
tleman in this city, dated Bath, February
l%th, 1793.
" The price of tin in European mar
kets, is raised from 58 to 72 per cent.—
by which Cornwall receives tgtween 30
and 40,0001. sterling per annum ; the
greatest part of it from foreign markets ;
so that there is full employment for men,
women, arid children, arid the county not
able to answer the full demand. And yet
itrange tq relate ! the county produces
little corn. Depending on precarious
importations, the poor inhabitants are of
ten deprived of a supply, and grow riot
ous thro' want, even in times of profound
peace. What may be expedted, then,
in this and other piaces similarly situate,
in cafe the present war with France
fliould continue.
" I was agreeably entertained by Mr.
Bartram's travels in the Flor/das and S.
Carolina. His account of Sfhes of prey
living peaceably with the smaller inoffen
five fry, while together in clear, transpa
rent water, is new and curious ! His ac
count of the amiable manners of those
nations whom, thro' pride, we style Sa
vages, isalfovery interesting.—Strange!
that the artificial mode of flattening the
heads of the children of the Chadtaws,
by mechanical comprefiion, long conti
nued, does not derange the faculties of
the -brain ! On the contrary, we read,
they become fenlible, ingenious men ;
bold, intrepid, yet quiet and peaceable
citizens. The method of taming wild
horses, by fait, is a Angular fa£t, and
worthy attention.
" In cafe the present troubles in this
country, (hould go to extremities, and
terminate in anarchy, or a national con
vulsion, America seems to offer the only
402
eligible afyJum for peaceable EngTifli
fubjefls, who can surmount local preju
dices and reconcile themselves to a voyage
across the Atlantic, and content them
selves with becoming fellow-citizens with
their brethren in America. Many cir
cumilances leem to pot tend fuchan event
as at no great distance. The sanguinary
that now prevails among the poten
tates of Europe, cannot fail to lubjeCt
the inhabitants to all the horrors and ca
lamities of war, or force them to leek
refuge in more peaceable climes.
" Quicquid delirant Rcges pleSuntur
Jichivt."
" The last year, particularly in the
western part* of this island, has been un
commonly wot. Of 365 days in the year
1 79 2 > two hundred and iixty three were
rainy, viz. in Jannary, j j days ;in Feb.
27 ; in March, 25 ; in April, 29 ; in
May, 20 ; in 18 ; in July, 25;
in Augult, 18 ; in Sept. 18 ; in Octo
ber, 25 ; iti November, 13 ; in Dec.
26. Theprefent year, thus far, has been
very similar : Scarce any froft or snow ;
milch rain ; cloudy atmosphere ; the fun
seldom vilible.
" A method has lately been invented
for maiking the changes of the barometer
by a clock ; and this might perhaps, with
out difficulty, be transferred to the ther
mometer and hydrometer—which would
be a capital improvement in meteorologi
cal experiments.
" The Steam Engine has received great
and important improvements, and is a -
btout to be applied to the propelling of
veflels and other puipofes, in all which 1
believe America is not behind hand.
" The samples of the true cinnamon
lately sent from Jamaica, are allowed to
rival, or even cxcel the bcft specimens hi
therto imported from Ceylon ; and the
plantation is said to be in a flourifhing
condition. Plants might be transplanted
to Carolina, or other limilar latitudes.—
For why should this precious aromatic be
confined to one particular spot ? The
Dutch by a narrow-minded felfifh policy,
have too long monopolized this and other
valuable spices. But the pvodu&s of na
ture, like those of science, ought to be
diffufed every where, that the different
nations, like children of the fame bene
ficent parent, may all pattake of the be
■ rieflt, and return grateful homage to the
all-bountiful Donor.
" A l'pirit for extending inland navi
gation by canals, never was more predo
minant in this country : But war will re
tard these and all other public-spirited o
perations ; watering of meadows begins to
be fuccelsfully employed, diffufing fertili
ty and verdure at a small expence. The
gypsum is under trial, but does not prom
ise luch luxuriant crops as on vour fide of
the Atlantic.
Mail.
" Potatoes, for which we were origi
ginally indebted to South America, and
which found their way very slowly as an
article of diet, are now become the prin
cipal food for all kinds of' cattle, without
exception ; and experiments have (hewn
that with a small portion of flour, they
:are capable of being converted into a
very ufeful and pleasant bread.
" Paper begins to be manufactured
from coarse, raw vegetables ; and Englijb
rhubarb i 3 about to rival the true Turkey
tho' of a less marketable appearance.
" Mr. Knight, of Norwich, manu
fa&ures EngJiJh Jhawls of large dimensi
ons, and of such perfe&ion as hardly to
be diftinguiihed from Indian, and at a
twentieth part of- the usual expence.
" Mr. Svvaine, of the Bath Society,
has discovered, that dried oak leaves, yield
by decoction an astringent. extract for
tanning, which can be procured at one
fifth the expence of oak bark, which is
now exorbitantly dear.
" Mr. Howells, an ingenious watch
maker, has invented an improved escape
ment without springs, and without oil ; so
that the balance receives the fame impulse
in whatever petition the watch is placed ;
and the machine goes with more truth.—
The want of this was the grand defedl of
all former efcapeinents, as acknowledged
by the bed artists.
" Silk hab been produced in England,
equal to the best Chinefc; but mulberry
plantations are too scarce to support a ma
nufacture.
" The encaujlic painting of the ancients,
so much admired, has been lately reviv
ed by the ingenious Miss Greenland, who
has discovered the method ; and alio, how
to incorporate m.ijlic and white wax, with
water, by means of gum Arabic, as a
vehicle f»r the colour*."
Yeflerday at nnoij a Ojwjaittee of lis
Commercial and Trading iiiterelis, confiiti'i g
of about one htwdjed Gentlemen," waited c°
the Prelident of the United States at his
house, and presented the following Address—
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
Prcftdtut of tbt Unit-i d States.
Sir,
SENSIBLE that nothing is warning to tie
bappiuefs oi'ti.e people of the United States,
but to Continue* in peace their excellent
laws and government, the Merchants and
Traders of the city of Philadelphia beg leave
to expreft Jo you the high ■ JL-n c they enter
tain of the wuilui)! and gtiodnefs which disrat
ed your late proclamation, declaring the neu
trality to be observed by the United States m
the war wherein several European powers are
now engaged—A war which, however it
might serve the interests qif their Commerce
for the time, they, as the Friends of all men,
and of ail Nation!., are bound to deplore.
Iniprclfed too with an opinion, thai in a „ un _
offenmng condnft towards all the worid, con
fills the true policy ol America, it is their de
termination not only to pay the Itriitcil regard
to the proclamation them ft lues, hut to difcoun
tcnance in the moll pointed manner any con
trary difpofiuon in otheis; examples ol which
they are pcifuaded will fcJdom oeon—the sen
timents jurt exorelfed being, asthry have the
laiisfa£tion t«, tind, the common language ol tile
citizens ol Pcnnfylvania,
Philadelphia, May 16, 1793;
To which the President made the following
R rp l y.
Gentlemen,
FULLY perl'uaded that the happiness and
best interests of the people of the United
States will be promoted by observing a
neutrality in the prelent concert among the
powers of —It gives me pieafure to
learn that the nieafure which I have tgken to
declare to the world their dilpofition" on this
head, has given general fatisfaeijon to the ci*
tizens of Pemifylvaflia.
The friet«k of humanity will deprecate
war wherever it mav appeal ; and we hav«
experienced enough of it? evils uj this coun
try to know that it lionld not be wantonly or
unnefeflarilv entered upon—l trull therefore
that the good citizens of the United States
will.(hew tu thewuplid that they have as much
wirdom in meferving peace at thisinterfiling
juncture, a:, they lave heretofore displayed
valour in defending theii jutt rights.
(Signed)
GEO. WASHINGTON
The above address was signed bv about three hun
dred perfon.t.
The following is a copy of a blank Sea-Letter,
or PafTport, iflued by the Supreme Execu
tive of the Union, to the Captains of (hips
or velTels belonging to citizens of tbe United
States, bound to ports within the territories
of the BeMiKercii; J'.O.wej-s.;WEhe--totters
are to be counterligned by the Secretary of
State, and are in the Englilh, and
French languages, coViformaWy to the trea
ties with France and Holland.
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
PRESIDENT of the UNITED STATES
of AMERICA.
To all mhojhnll fee these presents, greeting :
BE it known, That leave and permilfion
are hereby given to master or
commander of the called of the
burthen of tons or thereabouts, lying at
present in the port of bound for
and laden with to depart and proceed
with his said on his said voy»gt,
fucli having been visited, and the
said having made oath before the proper
officer, that the said belongs to one
or more of the citizens of the United Stares
of America, and to him or them only.
IN witness whereof, I have fublcribed
my name to the.e presents, and affixed the
seal of the United States of America there
to, and caused the fame to he cuunterligned
by at the day of in the
year of our Lord Christ, one thousand seven
hundred and ninety
MOST Serene, Serene, molt PuilTant,
PuilTint, High, Jlluftrious, Noble, Honorable,
Venerable, wife and prudent, Lords, Empe
rors, Kings, Republics, Princes, Dukes, Earls,
Barons, Kurgomafters, Schepens, Counsel
lors, as also Judges, Officers, Judiciaries and
Regents of all the good cities and places, whe
ther Ecclesiastical or Secular, who (hall fee
these patents, or hear them read, We
make known, that the mailer of ap
pearing before us, has declared upon oath,
that the veiTel, called the of the bur
then of about tons, which he at present
navigates, is of the United States of America,
and that no fubje&s of the present belligerent
powers have any part or portion therein, di
reftlv nor indirectly, so may God Almighty
help bim. And, as we wiffi to lee the said
master profpcr in his lawful affairs,eur prayer
is, to all the before-mentioned, and to eacli of
them separately, where the said mailer Hull
arrive, with his vsfle! and cargo, that they
may please to receive the said matter, with
goodness, and to treat him in a becoming
manner, permitting him, upon the usual tolls
and cxpences, in palling and repafling, to pals,
navigate, and frequent the ports, palfe and
territories, to the endto tranfafthis bniinefs,
where, and in what manner he (hall judge
proper : Whereof we Ihall be willingly in
debted.
IN witneft and for canfe wiiereof, w*
affix hereto the ftjal of > .
A letter from Amiterdam of 30th March,
received by the Ihip Peggy, fays, " That the
embargo on American veil'els is taken off—
and that the trade ai.d commerce of that city
begins to revive, since the French retreated
from the Maefe ar.d the Khine."fcreatli. Leave it tc the true friends
of liberty tofave the republic. The
adminiltrative bodies of Marseille*,
, the fetftions & the popular societies
acknowledge in theconvemion none
but that guardian maintain, which
will, with us secure the triumph of
the republic. Fly monsters, or
dread the efftxts of the vengeance
of a people who l ife for a third time,
and whole cry is Libtrty or Death "
Soine called for the printing, o
thers for the rejection of this letter.
Barbaroux speaks in favor of a con
vocation of the primary ailemblies
for the re-election of deputies.
Lafource informed, that among
the fe<ftions of Marseilles, some have
declared, that they would acknow
ledge no law palled with the con
currence of those who voted for the
appeal ; another fediion endeavors
to prevail on the citizens of Paris
to fend the appellants to their re
lpeftive departments in chains.
Lafource moved that these relolves
should be annulled.
The convention decreed, " That
the petition or letter from Mar
seilles is rejected or difappioved, &
that all the resolves of administra
tive bodies relative to this letter
are annulled, as an invasion of the
liberty of opinion, the unity and in
divisibility of the republic."
The commiifioners sent to visit
the ports from l'Orient to Bayonne,
write from Rochefort, on the 18th,
that the rebels having dared to at
tack General Masse, ac the head of
1300 men with seven pieces of can
non, had been put to flight, leaving
one hundred men on the field. We
have had but seven wounded. Gen.
Mace is about pursuing, wi|h a re
inforcement of 2000 men, the re
bels as for as Nantz, the communi
cation of which place with Antwerp
is dill interrupted. The rebels are
commanded by Gafton, Saint-Her
maine, and Verteuil. Thecommif
fioners announce frefli reinforce
ments from Bourdeaux, &c.
Fabre d'Eglantine informed, that
from the knowledge colletfed by
the police of Paris, and committee
of general fafety,from the exchang
es made every day at the mint of a
quantity of guineas and dollars, it
was evident, that foreign powers
have numerous agents in the repub
lic, and especially in Paris ; he
therefore proposed, in the name of
the comgiittee, to place at the dis
posal of the minifterof the inferior,
a sum of 300,000 livres forfecretex
penfes. Referred to the committee
of finance. March 23.
A member informed, that as Toon as the
news of the rebellion in the department of
Deux Sevres and Vendee rcached Bourdeaux,
800 men marched to their relief with 4 pieces
of cannon, from that city.
troubles in the department oj vendee.
The administrators arrive to give an ac
count of the troubles and devastations in the
two departmentsof Deux Sevres and Vandee.
It is not, said the orator, mere partial infur
re<stions, it is not a handful of rebels, that the
patriots could easily disperse, but real coun
ter-revolutionary armies. They recruited
among us, but it appears that they formed
themselves in the department of lower Loire.
They march in two columns, one towards
the diflriffc of Challans and that of Sables and
the other to Montaigu. Between these two
main bodies are others less confide rable.—
One Gafton is the commander in chief. One
hundred gallant inhabitants of Fontenay dar
ed to attack at St. Fulgent, 6ooof the rebels.
They could not be fuccefsful, 17 fell on the
spot. The city of Chantenay has been at
tacked, taken and pillaged by the revolrers.
About this timfe General Maci arrived at
St. Hermand. He attacked the rebels and
killed 100 men. The 18th his army retted ;
the 19th he took a bad position, was attacked
and put totally to flight. 6ur defeat was
such that we left 74 or 80 wounded to the
mercy of the counter'.revolutionifts.
The commiflioners of the convention have
deposed Mace, and appointed Col. Botilard
in his stead, who is busy in endeavoring to
gather the scattered remains of our army.
Another administrator adds, that numerous
rebels have been landed by Engliih privateers;
that they con'jft of emigrants and non-juring
priests, who, the crucifix in their hand, in
spire with a spirit of fanaticifm the unfortu
nate inhabitants of the country to such a de
gree, that they, with no other arms than
spades and pitchforks, stand the fire of the
cannon, and think thef attain a place in hea
ven by dying in such a cause.
The administrators concluded by afkingfor
officers in whom the .national guards can con
fide, muikets, cannon, ammunition, and pro
visions and fucconr for 300 families who have
loft their chiefs.
On motion, 1,200,000 Kvreswas decreed to
the reliefofthofedepartments. Astomeafures
of protection-, the fnhjeft was referred to the
comipitte^>fnavalconcerns&generaldefence
PARIS, March 34.
It is worthy ofremark, that since
the firft checks of the French ar
mies, the commiflioners of the Tem
ple teftify a (tronger regard towards
their piifoners—lt is even faid,that
fonie proposals have been hazarded
by them, to which the Qoten mo
ther replied with her ufoal dignity,
" 1 will receive no favor I'.om ihofe
who have wrelled everything from
me."
B O U R DEAIX, March 16.
Fifty-three recruits were wanted
at Libourne, Saint E,milieu and tbe
neighboring communes. All the
unmarried men in those places as
sembled at Libourne, and poor as
well as rich, refufed to draw lots :
they all took the oath and resolved
to march off in a body. Inltead
therefore of $3 men which they
were to furnifh, they are upwards
of 800 strong, and ate to form a bat
talion. There is an example for our
citizens. This was not known here
before last evening.
If the society of the friends of e
qnality continue presenting their
gifts, it will prodnce a very conside
rable sum. Citizen Burel gave 500
livres ; Nerac iooo ; Boue 3000, he
besides provides three ofhis nephews
on the frontiers. In general every
merchant gives from 3 to soolivres.
Besides, great quantities of cloaths,
&c. are furniflied.
B A Y O N N E, March 9.
Within these few days, two priz
es have come in here, one English
from the Havannah, laden with to
bacco, the other Spanifti, laden with
indigo.
BR EST, March if,
The frigate Thetis, of this port,
has sent in two prizes ; one ladeu
with wine, and the other with fruit.
Arming goes on with the greatrft
activity. Five veflels are ready to
put to sea. Seamen in plenty ar
rive, all well disposed.
We have heard nothing of the
squadron that went out eight days
ago ; (lie was to convoy out to some
distance the frigate intended for
America, and then cruise to prottdi
our commerce.
PETERSBURGH, (Ruf.) Feb. 4,
Our victorious armies are putting
themselves in motion to go against
the French regicides. A formidable
fleet, commanded by the intrepid
admiral Ribas, will immediately
pass through the ftraiis of Darda
nelles, and proceed to attack Mar
seilles. The celebrated General
Suwarrow will embark on the fame
fleet, with a body of troops destined
to make a descent. Prince Imerette
is in full march at the head of 20,000
coflacks and calmoucs, and J,OOO
hollars, to join the combined army.
They will be followed, as we are
allured, by another body of regular
troops.
BOSTON, May 8.
[The Intelligence this day communicat
ed, is txtraded from the London
Morning Chronicle ; a paper univer
sally celebrated for its dijint erefled
support of Republican principles.
We hope, therefore, that none of our
patrons, like a certain hair-brained
politician, -will wit hdraiu their names
from our catalogue.] Ed. Mad! Mer.
L E Y D E N, March 28
A courier who arrived at the
Hague on the night between the
26th and 27th, brought certain in
telligence, that the French have
evacuated Brussels, and that' they
fell back towards Mons, on the ap
proach of'the Imperial arnjy, part
of which entered that capital on
Sunday the 24th
HAGUE, March 26
Advice is jufl: received here of a
bri/k engagement having taken
place on the 23d, between the Atif
trians and the French, at a place
near Breibeck, in which the latter
were again defeated.
FRANKFORT, March 21.
Yesterday Gen. Cuftine, seconded
by Col. Houchard, attacked with t2
battalions of infantry, a batrery ni'
cannon, and 20 squadrons, the Prof
fun CoJ. Seculi, who had ported
403
himfelf near Sternberg, with only
200 infantry and 150 hufl'ars and
dragoons. The adtion continued
from 7 o'clock in the morning till
one in the afternoon, when Colonel
Seculi on account of the great fupe
rioriry of the enemy, was obliged
to retire to Rheimbellen.
The Prussians loft 32 men, the
French 300.
LIEGE, March 13.
On the 3d and 4th infl. 40 per
sons were murdered in this city for
being Arillocrats. The Jacobins
began to think of the bloody scenes
of the 10th of August. Seven hun
dred persons were to have been
murdered here; and Commiifioners
sent from Liege to Maeftricht
(which the French flattered them
selves to take) for the purpose of
discovering and murdering all the
emigrants from Liege !
LONDON, April 3
Private letters from Cenftantiuo
ple state, that a conspiracy has been
dete&ed at the Ottoman Court.
The French had, by presents and
promises, corrupted the greatest
part of the Turkish Ministry, and
endeavored to induce them to mur
der the Grand Signior. Everything
had already been so concerted, that
his Sublime Highness was to be
strangled, and war declared against
Austria and Russia.
The Roflian Charge d'Affaires at
Constantinople, had the good for
tune to discover the whole of the
plot, and to give timely notice of
it to the Sultan. All the accomplices
were instantly ftrangjed, and many
Frenchmen, who even, had but the
retnoteft concern in it, were declar
ed outlaws, and their property was
confifcared. Every affiirance of
peace and good understanding was
then given to our court and to that
of Peterlburgh. The Internuncio,
who was about a twelve-month ago
at that court, was amongst the con
spirators, and has received his due
reward.
Every Mail from the Continent
now announces the repulse or re
treat of the French from some of
their conquests in the Netherlands.
On Saturday last they evacuated
Oftend. They had remained there
to the number of 2000, in order to
fend off the veflels in the harbor
with such stores as they could carry
to Dunkirk. The appearance of
the squadron, detached by Captain
Macbride, put a flop to the execu
tion of this design ; two of the Bri
tish vessels entered the harbor, on
the invitation of the inhabitants—.
and the French marched ofFina bo
dy to Dunkirk.
Letters from Namur, of March
17, fay, that Gen. Beaulieu, who
was in Luxembourg, with about
14,000 men, had driven the French
from the country between rhe Sam
bre and rhe Meufe, and was on the
point of besieging the citadel of Na
mur ; and letters from the Hague
of the 30th add, that Namur was
taken, and a detachment of the
Luxembourg army sent to reinforce
the Prince of Saxe-Cobourg, who
was advancing to dislodge Dumou
rier from his pod at Halle.
The city of Dantzic, with the 11-
nanimons consent of all orders, has
formally submitted to the King of
Prussia.
The French emigrants now in
Spain, are to be employed in the
armies and fleets of his Catholic
Majesty. In Portugal they enjoy
the fame confidence.
Government have resolved to
grant 110 further supplies to the
French emigrants—but diredis that
they be formed into regiments,com
panies, &c.
The merchants of Madrid have
voluntarily presented the King of
Spain, with a million of pialtres,
for the expenses of the war.
About twenty large privateers are
in a very forward ftateat Havre-de-
Grace. They mount from 18 to 24
guns, and some Irish Adventurers
have been noticed as being buly in
these equi pmetits.
" At a late hour last night, we received an
expref-, from out correspondent at the Hague,
dated March 31ft, with the agreeable intel
ligence that Breda and Gertruydenberg have
both fir .erideied. The French soldiers that
c mpofed rv. of those places have
peiciiiTiou to leturn to France.
'' By tlm , e
niCr4..3lrerreatot thf.h ri . 1 f
Gen. Unmourier,
ennes and L ite without lurt!, t ' r ' V 1
r i?r P' Mo "S '-"id Na, ni '*«
wile all funendered." > "«k t
OFFICIAL ACCOVNt
By Field MarlW p r j llct " T'
the further o^eraticf
Army—March t->: , -Vi,,
Lieutenant Field Marfbji p. • „
the French from Tirlem„„r »„/ V(,ro "
to the distance of a '**><»
th.it town. The enemv COver ,d ,t'
with much order »r,d coM,*". 7' r «.»
noon our army advanced on the «
paflVd^Tirlemont. Part of them ' *"«
behind that town, ha™,,, in J". enc> ®!*i
large rivulet of Ghethe, on their ""
cauleway „h, c |, coududh ,h <
body ot reserve on the right and ru'" '**
of Hougard behind them. ' ,lli4 P
Col. Baron de Myli„,, who w „ *
from Kempen, with two batolJ- H
giment of Walis, had received n"d ' fc
lodge the enemv, on the f ~r!'ollf
which he happily executed," and vT,6 " ;
* S a PP ears b >- following 3 , c ;„ ™ ocil
At seven o'clock in the morn™ r \'j.
My , u, attacked Dieft, and » as
pulsed; but on the second attack W
the town on both fide,, took JO prison
seized one cannon besides r , ' '" d
Our loss amounts to j5 men killed or JS
ed, one of whom is a caotain Thp
having been cot off from
of Louvam, were obliged to retir. '
Heerentiall. On the uft the army reft^'
wards in three columns. The firft ; H vsr J
on the right ol the caufewav of Wai, ?
second on the left, and the third, srtich so n .
ei the van guard, directs m3 r c!l ITOar(l!
Tourine. 1
When the second column arrived at the
height., where it was to encamp, itV oon d
them occupied by numerous hodiei of Fiench
cavalry, and the village of Blamder,
was intended to cover their leftwing by a
great number of their infantrv. '
The enemy were attacked on all fide% but
they made an obltinate defence, procuring re .
inforeements, and supplying, by frelh»troop<"
whom they brought from Louvain, a»d their
camp behind that town, those who hail been
repulsed.
Tho battle was bloody; onr second column
loft above 400 men, and the enemy more than
2003. They were, however, overcome by,
the bravery of the Imperial troops, driven
from all their posts, and forced to evacuate
the town of Louvain, to quit the rivulet Dyl,
& to retire behind Louvain towards Broffels.
The firft column fell in, near Belemberg,
with a body of the enemy, who occupied the
heights between that village and Louvain, in
order to cover the latter. The enemy de
fended themselves there for seven hours with
the greatest obstinacy, but they were at length
overcome and driven beyond the rivulet
Dyl.
This battle was still more bloody than that
ef the second column, and we reckon our loft
which is notyetproperly ascertained,atroore
than 5000 men ; the enemy loft above 2000.
Our column took pofTeffion of three cannons
and one carriage.
The enemy abandoned at Lou vain a conli
derable magazine. Terror and disorder have
again their troops. They
have quitted the advantageous pnft which they
occupied on the Iron Mountain, and have en
camped before Bruflels, between the Canal
and the sorest of Soignes.
(Signed) SAXE COBOURG.
N E W-Y O R K, May 13.
£xtraft oj a letter from Ainjlcrdam, to a Htuft it
this city, dated April 4th y 1793.
The French have been driven from our
frontiers, and ont of Brabant* to their own
home.—-Great disturbances have broke out in
different parts ofFranre."
Extratt from the he) den Cour ant, dated April $i,
*793-
" It appears from the latest accounts
which have been received, that the French in
the several engagements from the tstb to the
22d of March, have loft from 4° t0 4& 003
men ; and that they have completely evacu*
ated Brabant.
" Lou vain was left by them on tlie
and on the 24th of March, Brussels, where
the Arch Duke Charles of Austria
ceived on the 25th with emotions ofjoy.
u Antwerp and its castle were giveti up to
the Auftrians by capitulation on the 26: in
theevening. It is reported that Bruges a
also been abandoned by the French, ant a
the Auftrians have taken pofleffion of Mon,
where they have established their heao-qoa
ters; Breda & Gertruydenberg being alreaoj
blocked up, it is expected will under
circumstances not hold out long.'
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED<tfM« PORf o/PHILA
Ship Peggy,
Stobo, St. Eaftatto
Jones, 3'lcs
Rrs , Port-au-Pr^
Merchant, NewburyF*
Vanvokar, Cape-
Dowen, IN --
Hannah,
Brig Anne,
Jason,
Snow Hope,
Sloop Dove,
Dolphin,
Sally,
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, X J
3 perCems, >
Dcfer „ red ' „, „ « i per ««- ,dv '
Full /hares Bank U. S. "
>ELrHM.
LmftcrdaniTHE CAPTIVE KING.
BY UK. WAI.COT.*
ijUr. i»ci«»»»
DSAD is t'.e ditaia of life that calm'd my
14T1. ,1
And dirrm il the beam of hope tiiat t.uimii
defpJir!
Yu lei in* f«ul be firm — piss one Inort houi.
And LOUIS tioriuthf anu oi lullian power :
A 0 A' C.
A<l>U, thou farb rr r.f my WOPS,
V/here f'p. tired fUr.cc reigns around;
And tt'jug' r it awakes 'tic diead repot; ,
But that deep witn honor found
No more thele walls tny gnel (lull hear",
And-to a captive Ktttjf reply,
When morning p»fe upon his teai,
And night ticfcended on the tigh.
Forbear, my love, these drops to shed,
Arid i >y to think my woes ffwltceate •,
Lo wncii the vile ol death I triad,
1 wander from the florin to pe«cc !
Ye too, my idol farewell!
Like me, whose tender forms may bleed ,
Th? gloomy crimes of inuidei fw.!;,
While nature IV.uddcrs at the dr«d.
Ye know, We only fall to rife,
And llart to glory fiom the dust ;
jotlami allnuce with the Ikies,
The fjcieu refuge liom uV ur.^ujl.
Mv spirit, lo! lor yours fnall wait;
Together wc wiH leek. the shore,
"Whete for row dies, and lUih'.ef# Jate
Can give the patting pang no rnoie!
CIIOKUS.
Do, injui'd King, fwnil seraphs shine,
Behold, a brighter ctown thmc,
And fee appear with gladdeu'd eyes.
An hrjl to haii thee, 'midlt the flUei!
* More generally known 6) the name oj Peter
PINDAR.
PHILADELPHIA.
NEW POST ROAD.
THE foiiftwing is the route of a lately
eftablifticd, between ibe city of Hudlon, uu the
North of Hudson's River, <nd :he Tioga coun
try : ' M,les
riom the city of Hudson to Cailkill . 6
CatfkiH to H»rperstie|d ja
Harpersfield to Ouliout
Outiout to Chenango 5°
Chenango to Ow&sy *6
Owegy to Newtown, on the Tioga, £
branch of Suquehmnah, )
Newtown to the Painud Post on/
Tioga alorefaid )
This post road is the rtfult of the efforts of
individuals, who continue the line ot the pub
lic pott office from Hudfoi. for fucn pottage as
they may lawfully charge, and such voluntary
fubfcriptiqns as they can procure. It connects
all the contiguous counius iu the States ot Peon
l'ylvama and New-York, on llitf *.ofninon boun
dary 1 ne of the two States, with the old coun
ties of New-York and New-England, arjd will
citabllfh an easy communication between the
families that are divided, by emigration, be
tween the ancient settlements and that tiue new
countiy,
LONDON, March 21
If the value of a donation is to
be eftiniated by its amount, thefub
i'cription from Eton school claims
pre-eminence. But the merit ot
the gift is enhanced by the promp
titude and sincerity with which it
was given. An hundred guineas to
a charity from school- boys,announc
es such genuine pati iotifm, fucli in
nate and laudable liberality, that
the nation itfelf, high as (he (lands
in the eftituauon of the world, is
honored by the donation. There
is vigor and manhood, as well as
generolity, in the very idea, and
which'none but British Youth would
have conceived or executed.
It is therefore, with a pleasure
bordering on enthusiasm, that we
record the munificent donation of
one hundred guineas given by the
young gentlemen at Eton, to the (b
ciety for the relief f the widows
and children of thole gallant men
who may fall in the lervice of their
country ; and when we cotifider
the spirited connections of many of
thele young gentlemen, and that
they ate destined to the cabinet or
the field, we cannot but feel an hap
py preface, that the British contti
tution'will be tranfmirred pure and
unimpaired to the latest posterity.
Weftininfter, it is said, is follow
ing this example but Eton has the
glory of" having taken the lead on
this, uccafion.
The ladies in Scotland are railing
a fund for the relief of the widows
and'-orphans of such soldiers and
sailors a-s may fill I in battle. The
f'ubfeription is carrying on under
the patronage of the Counters of
tilenca iru, lady Clerk of Penny c nick,
hon. Mrs. Druimupnd of Perth,
Mrs. Dundas, George-ltreet, and
Mrs. Clerk t»f Mavilbank.
Albany Glafs-Houfe.
Tie p> of nui-n..,5, unu< r
die firm of
M'CLALLEN, M'GREGOR and Co.
BEG leave lo lolorm the public, ihai ihcy have
now bioughi their WIXDOW-GLASS lo
fucK per'rfimn, s will be found, on companfon,
10 be equal, lu quality, 10 tbc belt London
Crown Glaf*.
Having fistd tlieir pticrs at a lower rate than
mtt'teJ Giafs, tiiey a'e induced to believe, thai
importation*ot this article will be difcommued,
in propotiion *s tneir woiks arc extended.—
They p»op<>fe 10 enlarge the f-alc ot ihu bofi
nefs, and as the fucce'.s of it will depend on the
patnotic lupport of the public, they beg leave to
solicit their friendly patronage in the puriuir ot
a branch which will tmercft every iovcr of
American Manufactures.
Ail orders tor Wi ndow-Gl ass, of anv file,
will be received at the Store <o't Rkodis and
MacGhecor, No.' 234, Qneen-ttieeu New-
York, and at the Glaf* Wa'ehoufe, No. 48,
Maiket-iirect, Albany, which will be pun&uaily
attended to.
\fT WANTED, fix smart active LADS, not
exceeding 16 years of to be indented as
Apprentices, and regularly inilruCted in the
various branches of Glafs*Makin^.
Also, ihrcC Windorf-Glafs M«»kcri,to whom
great encouragement will be gwen,
May i, 1793.
JUST t'UBIISHED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
Hook letter, at the Stont-Hovfe, in Scc»*d Jlrcet,
Pm LAOF.LPHI A,
VOLI)M£ VIII, of
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
or, A DICTIONARY OF ARTS,SCIENCES,
AN MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
Ou a Plan entirely pew
BY WHICH
The Different SCIENCES and ARTS
are digested into the Form of DiltinCfc,
TREATISES OR SYSTEMS:
THIS VOLUME CONTAIN!
AN Arcount of the Cap - of Good Hope,
Grafting, Umverfal Grammar, Graffcs,
Greece, Greenland, Guam, Guinea, Gunnerv,
Happincf's, Harmony, Heat, Hepatic-Air, He
ialdi v,Hindoftan,H»ppopotai>us,Hiftory,New-
Holl.uid, Horse, Hoi femanfhip, H<»tuntots,
Hunting, Husbandry, Hydrometer, with a great
variety of Biographical $nd Miscellaneous Arti
cles. Embellilhed with sixteen Copperplates.
CONDITIONS.
The work is printing on a fuperfine paper,
and new types, (cast for the puipote) which
will be occdfioodily lenewed before they con
tra# a worn appearance.
11. The work is funr.fhed in boards, in volumes
or half-volumes, as fubferibers chufc; the price
of the whole volumes, five dollars each, of the
half-volumes two dollars and two-thirds of a
dollar each. Ten dollars to he paid on fub
fcribmg, the volumes or half-volumes finifhed
to be paid for when delivered, theprice of one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each succeeding volume to be paid on deliver
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
work will be delivered unlefspaid for.
111. In the couife of the publication will be de
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia : which by
far exceed in number thoife given in any other
lcientific dictionary. At the close of the pub
lication will be delivered an -elegant frontif
piece, the dedication, preface, and pioper ti
tle pages for the different volumes,
It is cxpcCted the woik will be comprised in
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
£3H 4* several gentlemen who have honored this
undertaking with early fubferiptions, have only re
ceived a final! part oj the work, they are earnestly
requejltd to complete their feis, as far as publijhed,
immediately, while the pubiijher Jlill has it in his
powe> to [apply them with the parti which have not
been furnifhed. As the JubJcription will very po/ji
bly be closed by the firft of Jul\ next, the pubiijher
cannot undertake to complete Jets alter that period ;
and thole who wish to become pojfejjors of this truly
valuable and important work, will pleaje apply before
the expiration oj tha( time, that they may not be drj
appotnted.
The very heavy expence neccjforih inabred in car
ning on this york, makes it aidifpevja'oly requisite
Jor the pubhflier to adhere more JlriHh than he lias
done to the original condition, oj delivering- the vo
lumes only on being paid for them.
April 6, 1793.
District of Pen nsy l v a n i a, to wit.
HE IT REMEMBERKD, That on
(Seal.. ) the thirteenth day of March, in
/ the fevenictnth year of the Indepen
device of the United Slates of America,
Thomas Dorson, ol the fdid Diftrift, hath de
posited in this Oftue, the Title of a Book, the
Right whereof he claims as Pioprietor, in the
woids following, to w»t.
" An Enquiry how far the Punijhment of Death
44 is necejfary in Pennfylvama. With Motes and
By Willtam Bradford, Esq.
tl To which i s added, an Account of the Gaol and
'• Penitentiary Houje oj Philadelphia, and of the
44 interior Management thereof. By Cal<?b
44 Lownes, of Philadelphia.—r- —If we Inquire
44 into the C iafes of ail human (orruptitr.i, aw
44 shall find that they proceed from the Impunity
44 oj Crimes, and not from the Moderation of Pu
-44 nijhtnents." Montefq.
la conformity to the A 6* of the Congress of
the United States, intituled, ,4 An Ad. for the
Encouragement of Learning, by fecimng the
Copies of Maps, Charts and Books, to the Au
thors and Proprietors of such Copies, during the
Times therein mentioned.'*
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk ol the Diihift of Pcnnfylyania
The ufavc week is fold in Chflrlejion by
William Price Young ; Richmond, by Archibald
Cur lie : b\ James Rice : New-York,
by Thojnas Allen : 80/ ion, by David Weft.
(£3** The price of this Gazette is Three Dollars
per annum—One-hoi If to he p<*id at the time offub
fcrihing.
-404-
CIRCULAR LETTER,
historical society,
iitjpcdfully aiidrtjjcd to every Gentleman oj Scietcc
in the Continent and IJIm<U of Amerttu.
Si x,
A SOCIETY has lately been instituted in thin
Sine, called the Historical Society ;
the pioleired defn>n ol wnicb is, 10 collect, p>e
lerve and communicate, materials for a complete
history ol this country, and accounts of all valu
able etfoits of human ingeuuuy and uidu.try,
tiom the beginning ot us fettleinent. In pur
fu«nce ol this plan, they have already amaffrd a
Un>e quanuiy of books, pamphlets and rnanu
fcripts ; and are ftiil in search of more : A cata
logue of which will be printed for the informa
tion of the public.
They have alio encouraged the publication of
a monthly pamphlet, in which is given the refill!
of iheir enquiries, into the natural, policed! «lnd
eccleliaftical hiltory of this country. It 1 re
quelled that you would contribute to its value
and importance, by attention to the ariicles an
-111 xed. The Society beg leave to depend on
your obliging answer to these heads ol inquiry,
when leiluie and opportunity will pWinii.
Your letters addressed, free of exp<-nfc, lo the
fubferiber, will be gratefully received, and duly
noticed in the Society's publications; and you
will have the fatislaftion of contributing to the
general flock of knowledge, with which they
hooe to entertain the public.
eyi2w
In the name, and bv order of the Society,
JEREMY BELKNAP,
Corresponding Secretary.
Bojloriy in Majfachufetts, Nov. 1,1791
Articles on which the Society requejl
1. The time when your town or city was in
corporated ; its Indian name; hen the ftttle
mcnt btwn; whether it was interrupted, and
"by whe'rmeans ; to what Colony or County it
was firft annexed ; and if theie have been any
aiteiations, what they are, and when made.
2. The exploits, labours and fuffcrings of the
inhabitants in war ; particular accounts of de
valuations, deaths, captivities and-redemptions.
3. Divisions of your town or city in pfnfties
and precintfs, or the ere£tion of new towns
wiihin the former limits.
4. Time of gathering churches of every de
nomination ; names of the several Minifti rs ;
the timesof their fettlcmcnt, removal and death ;
and their age at the time of their death.
5. Biographical anecdotes of persons in your
town, or. within your knowledge, who have
been remarkable for ingenuity, enterpnfe, lite
rature, or any other valuable accomplilhment ;
an account of their literary productions, and if
poflible, copies of ihern.
6. Topographical description of your town
or county, and its vicinity; mountains, rivers,
ponds, animals, vegetable production? ; re*-
markablc falls, caverns, minerals, (tones, folfils,
pigments, medicinal and poisonous substances,
their uses and antidotes.
7. The former and present state of cultiva
tion, and your thoughts on farther improve
ments, either in respeCt to agriculture, roads or
canals.
8. Monuments and relicks of the ancient In
dians ; number and present llatc of any remain
ing Indians among you.
9. Singular inttances of longevity and fecun
dity from the fiift fettlcmrnt to the pieient time.
10. Oofervations on the weather, difcaTes,
and the influence of the climatc, or of particular
situations, employments and aliments, especi
ally the ef£c£tof spirituous liquois on the human
constitution.
11. Accurate bills of mortality, fpccifying
ages and cafuaities, the proportion of buths and
deaths, and the increase oi decrcafe of popula
tion.
1?.. Accounts of marurfa&ures and fifherics,
and thoughts on the farther improvement ol
them.
13, Modes of education, private or public;
what encouragement is given to schools and
colleges, and is done to advance litciaiure ;
whether yott have * foeial library, what u the
number of books, and of what value.
What remarkable eyeots have befallen
your "ft ate, county, town, or particular families
or pevfons, at any time.
P. S. Corresponding Members qf this
Society are requested 10 traufmn to the Qoue
fponding Secretary, any information
of which they may be pqlfeffed, refpe&ing any
paitof the American Continent and Islands, to
gether with printed atts and journals of AfFrm
blies and Conventions, whether civil or t-cciefi
alfical. And the Society will gratefully rcceive
from them from all other peifons whatever,
any books, pamphlets, manufenpts, maps or
plans which may be ufeful in forming an hiftori-
ep 1 m
cal collision'—and any natural or artificial pr<
duihons which may enlarge the Museum.
The Library and Mufeuro are deposited in an
apartment of Fancuil Hall. Any perjon dcfuoiis
of making a feareh among ihe books or manu
scripts, many have access to them under such re
gulations, iM mav be known by applying to any
one of the members.
Post-.Road
TO THE GENESEE COUNT XT.
THE public are hereby informed, that the
Port-Road from Philadelphia to Reading,
is continued to Sunbury and Northumberland ;
thence up the Weft Branch of the Sulquehannnh
as far as L'coming; trance to the Pbintfro Polk
(in New-York state, near the foiks of the Tioga,
thence to Bath (a town laid out on the Coho&ou
Branch of the Tioga) thence to Williamfburg,
at the forks of Genetee River,
Letters for this new route will be sent from
the Philadelphia Poft-Office every Wednetday
morning, at eight o'clock, with the mail lor
Reading.
A weekly mail will alio be carried from
Bethlehem to WiKOufbarre, in the county of
Luzerne. »
General Pojl-Ojficc, April 6, 1703.
Of THi
iuformat ion
ivj one's Geography
Ktffed, tod, <ndgTei,t rt „i u , ,j • '
adJitimcl M.\ > s, '
In a few wtfkj will be Dvitl.ftwJ
By THOMAS and ANDREWS, hSfry.
No 43, Nrwbwy.Sucei, »oko«, *
in / a-o / <./**«.», /^;j r o,?^
" Vfc Erfuion of (he AMtRIPjH,
«ke hii
".a (lie Uft fyllcm of G(Os«, fHy
■ shed: Or a complete (,fcOCRAfHV «/?"
VORLD, brought du»n to me pi debt ti^,-
IN TWO FAIT;
The General Cmtnh are—
PAR T 1.-Ot A tti fmotny, as C"ni>tttr4 w ,.l
and introductory to the itieiure of (; oirJß |,
urrdrr this bead wit) be s>iveu =
fcveral jftroiloimeal fyII mj ot ,|, t Wotlo I
a particular defcriplion o( th< t, utl)lK
of the diameters, periods, 4c. of
Planets in the f„l„r fyftmi-.., acuui.i ot .b.
Cornels and fixed stars.
Of G lOC HA PHY—.ts use and pro.,, (.
figure, magnitude and motion ot the I,
Doflune of ihe Sphere-Geographical ci.c;«~
Dtviftons ot the tarth into zones and
of li tid in -J tie latu.ideand 1..o R „ udc
of placis from celestial obf-ivation:,-W„b,,'
and iheir ufe-,wuh a nurnbet of the ir.oli u (c"
fnl.and entertaining Geographical
Theorems—Maps, and their use— lources ot tirst
and cold-—theory of the winds and tides
of miles in different countries— natural aivifi,,,.,
of the Earth— account of the Giegorw, Qr ot„
llile,
America*-*lts discovery by Columbus
gene raj defcriptioo of the Continent, in which i>
a lengthy difcuflion of the queUion, When
whence, and bv whom, was Amcrica firft p CO '
pled ? With a iong and entertaining accountof
the Indians,,and ihe late difcuvcries oo the north,
weft coast, $cz.—North America— chroiio
logical account of it* discovery *ud lettlemenu,
its divifioni —Dan ish America, British
America, Un it id St at es of America—
general description of them, including a niiUy
of the late war, and manv other ufetul and c„.
tertaining matters. South America—itsdi
vifions, particular description of i»s several yrrv
vinces and countries. West India Islands
*** This part of the work will be iHuftrattd
by maps of the counti les described, hum the
corre&eft copies.
PART ll.—Containing every thing essential
which is contained in the best and latest quarfo
edition of Guthrie's and other Briufh G*ogra.
phies, with felc&ions from celebrated naviga.
tors, travellers and itfpedable authors ol otUr
nations, &c.
Of Europe in general—its grand divifionj,
particular geographical dcfcriptions of its lev*,
ral Kingdoms and Republics, See. Of Am—
its situation, boundaries, general history, parti
cular descriptions of its feverjl divifjoni, Stc.
Of Africa—its general history, boundary,
grand divisions 1 , &c. Also, new difcoyeprs,
Terra Incognita, Geographical Table, alphabe
tical ly arranged—Chronological Table ol re
markable events, discoveries and invem ions, till
ot men of learning and genius, with* other ulcl U l
miscellany.
This part will also be iUuflrated with
maps of the countries described.
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE Authoi is fcnfiblc ihar the fitft edition
of his American Geography (which makes hit
I. of tjic above work.) was in many mltanccs do
feftive. in others erroneous, and in fomeoffen
five. It has been his e as it was his
desire, in the prefrnt edition, to fupplv the d«ii
ciencies, com'tt the errors, ar.d meliorate
offenfiye par's of Ihe last. To aflift him iq ih.s
business, he has received ipariv valuable commu
nStations Iroin the head* of departments in ih*
general government, and from gentlemen ot rc
fpcftability in the ftveral ftatcs. The defcip
.lion of foreign coun ries (vyhich composes Part
11, of the above work) has been carefully com.
piled from the mod appioved writers on G o
graphy, and ufefui information introduced Ironi
the discoveries of the latest Navigators, Travel
lers, and refpt£bble authors. Indeed, no pains
nor cKpenfe have been spared to render tht* woik
the mod complete, accurate, and ufclui ol any
ever offered to the public.
Just publijhed,
' By THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Stone House, No. 41, South S(cqnd-s{Tt(h
A CASE,
Decidcd in the Supreme Court of the I'hte*
States, in which is difcufled the Oueftion,
WHETHER A STATE IS LIABLE TO EE
SUED BY A PRIVATE CITIZEN CF
ANOTHER STATE!
Price Half a Dollar.
NEW TEAS.
I MPERIAL,HYSO N&SOUCHOHG
Of the very fii ft quality,and latest imyoiWiM
from ,ia W»">*
' No- 19+
Third, between Chefnut and
N. B. 4J"V of tht
TICKETS
Lmtn.
May be had at SAMUEL CO, OPtK»f^
TO BE SOLD BY THE
A TABLE tor rr«,vn: p^n^ ftiV
graduated according to Law-Man ,
And Blanks for the various Pow«» 0 , ?
n cctfary i'> traufafilwg Bufur.-ls at tbc
or Bank of the the United States.
pLA N $
OP THE
City of Waftiington,
Sold by the B»oxsEi.r.»s,
DOBSON, CAREY, IOUM. ii LRW*