A NATj
[No. 122
AN ORATIO N,
Pronr>unred July 4t'i, 1793, at the reqneft of
tae Inhabitants of the Town of Roston,
ill coouncinoratiiM) of re A n-n verfjgry
of American Independence.
By JOHN QUINCY ADAMS.
O NOMEN DULCE IIBERTATIs! Cic.
YEJhaiu oj ancient,hcroc 1' Yt vko toil'd,
7~hrpttgh longr fiiciejfivt aget to buildup
ji labouring plan qJ JUu ; behold at rtnrtf
The wonder done ! Thomson
At a .meeting of the Freeholders and other
Inhabitants of the Town of Js>fton, duly
qua ified and legally warned, in ptibli©
Town-Meeting, aflembled St
on Thttrfday the 4th of futv, A. D. 1 /05 :
•VOTE I), ' "
THAT the S?leftmen be and hereby *ne
appointed a Committee to wsit.an w JoHN
Syixcx Adams, E r q. aijd in the ilxnf* of tins
Town to tharfk him for the eff
gant <)*ATron, tliii Tiav deliWieil tiy Mm, at
tnc ut tie I s up->ti Annivcjaty
*f the biic[tndcn'.t vf At O*xit4 Swei tf Amtrka,
}n which, according "to the Inftitiititrn of the
Town, he considered the Jeelmgs, niaruiecs;-
*ndprinciples which led to that great National
Event—and to request of him a Copy thereof
for the Press.
Atufi,
WILLIAM COOPER, Tewn-CUrk
GENTLEMEN,
IN compliance with the polite Requefl cf
my Fellow Citizen-, the Oration ytfleiday
•delivered, again folieits the Indulgence of the
public. I am, Gentlemen,
With sincere Refpeft,
Your very humble Servant,
JOHN Q. ADAMS.
$oJlm, J%ly $th, 1793.
AN ORATION.
IT has been a custom, fan&ioned by the uni
versal pa ft ice of civilized Nations, to ce
lebrate with anniversary solemnities, the re-
by events the mod important to the happiness
<?f the people. In co.unt. ies where the natu
ral dignity of mankind has been degraded by
the weakness of bigotry, or debaled by the
miseries of dsfpotifm, this cuflomary celebra
tion has degenerated into a servile mockery
of feftivity upon tbe birth-day of a fceptered
tyrant, or ha: dwindled to an unmeaning re
vel, in honour of some canonized fanatic, of
whim nothing now remains but the name, in
the calendar of antiquated superstition. In
those more fortunate regions of the earth
where Liberty has eon del tended to reticle,
t!>e cheerful gratitude.of her favored people
to innocent gaiety and i.fcful re
laxation from the toils of virtuous industry,
the periodical revolution of those days which
fcave been rendered iiiuftrious by the triumphs
of freedom.
AMERICANS ! Such is the nature of the in
stitution which again caJIV yoijr attention to
celebrate the establishment of your national
Independence. And fin ely fihee the creation
of the heavenly or§ which fepa rated the (lay
from the night, amid the unnumbered events
which have diverfified the hiltory of the hu
man race, none has ever occurred mure high
ly defer ving of celebration by every species of
ceremonial, t'lat can teftify a lerife of grati
tude to the Pmty, and of happiness, derived
from his rranfeendent favours.
It is a wife and f'aiutary institution, which
forcibly recalls to the memory of freeflwn,
the principles uppn wheh they originally
founded their labouring plan of state. It is a
facrifice at the a tar of Liberty berfe'f*
renewal of homage to the Sovereign, who
alone is worthy of our veneration a pro
fcfUon of political fidelity, expreflive of our
adherence to those maxims of liberal submis
sion and obedient freedom, which in these fa
voirecl clime*, have harmonized the long
eontending claims of liberty and law. By a
frequent recurrence to those fentisrieMts and
$&ions upon which the glory and felicity of
the nation reft Purported, \ve are enabled to
renew the moments of biifs which we are not
permitted to retain ; we secure a permanen
cy to the exaltation which the Constitution cf
has rendered fleeting, and a perennial
fxiftente to enjoyment? which the lot of hu
manity has made tranlitory,
The 44 feelings, marr.Cis avd principles"
which led to the Ind pendente of our Coun
try ; such, m> friends and fellow citizens, is
the theme of » nr present commemoration
The fir Id i« extensive ; it it fruitful t but the
eppiom treasures of its fragrance have alrea
dy gathered by the hands of genius; and
now reinav:s for the gleaning of mental
Indigence, nought but the tbinly Scattered
sweets wh eh have e leaped the vigilance of
thfi induftrv.
T'icv weie the fame feeiing", manners »rd
principle*, which ciiiuluficd «nr venerable
£or<£sj troui tUc flimtj of up
'BMSHKD WEDNESDAYS ANI) SATORDA
01. IV.]
p"C.TSo;? ; • .J |bem with the ftib •
lims purpose of c-.; >verting the forefts #»fj? a
wilderne<s inf~» the favourite nianfion of Li
»?rty; of f*fa*ncw world,
i a refuge for the vi'&im*; of perfctufion in
lie; old. The ieeiings />f injured freedom, the
manners of social equal ty, and the principles
of fteriMl justice.
Had the Sovereigns of England purfiiec? the
policy prefenbed by their interest, had tr-ey
not p ovoked fire hostilities of their Colonics
against the foebie fort re fs of their authority,
they might perhaps, have- retained to tivs Ha>
an Snip}ie which would have been but th<
more rlurab'e, for reiting only upon the.ioun
d ition of immemorial custom, and nation#
affection.
Incumbered however with the
glorv of a fuceef.ful war, which ha:i enriched
the pride of Britain, with the fpoiis oi 1e v owp
opulence, and replenished the arrogance in
proportion 39 it had eKhaufted rf e resources
of the nation; an adventurous miuiftry, catch
ing at every desperate expedient to fnpport
the ponderous burden of flic national dignify,
a*',d n.ijnu'a*6d by the perfidious mitigations
of thi\r dependent" ; ; ' s.
the profitable commercial policy of their pre
d?ceflors, and fu/)era<!ded to the lucrative
system of monopoly, which we had always to- !
lerated us the price of their_ protection, a sys
tem of internal taxation from which they
hoped to derive a fond for future corruption,
and a upply for future extravagance.
The nation eagei I.y grasped at the proposal.
The situation, the the Sentiments
of-tbe colonies, were futjefts upon which the
people of Britain were divided between igno
rance and erro'-. The endearing ties of con
sanguinity, which had connected their ancef
tori, with those of the Americans, had been
gradually loqjened to the verge of di/Tolution,
by the ilow but ceaseless hand of" time. Jfa
ftead of returning the Sentiments of f aternal
afFection, which animated-the Americans, they
indulged their vanity with prepoilerous opi
nions of in*ulting superiority : they considered
us, not as fellow-fubje.cts equally entitled with
themselves to every privilege of' Englishmen ;
but as wretched outcalfa, upon whom they
might fafely load the burden, while they re
national grandeur, it has been observed, that
the nations the most highly favoured with
freedom, have not always been the most
friendly to the liberty of others. The people
of Britain, expected to feel none of the op
pression which a parliamentary tyranny might
impose upon the Americans; on the contrary,
they expelled au alleviation of their buulen,
from the accumulation of ours, and vainly
hoped that by the ftvipes inflicted upon us,
their wounds would be healed.
The King—Need it be fa id, that he adopt
as the atfVjirtug of hi* own affe&ions, a plan
f<? favorable to the natural propensity of roy
alty towards arbitrary power. Depending
upon the prostituted valour of his mercenary
legions, he was deaf to the complaints, he
was inexorable to tiie remnnftrances of vio
lated freedom. Born and educated tp the
ufuaj prejudices of hereditary dominion, and
habitually accustomed to the syren-song of
adulation, he was ready tp believe what the
courtly tribe about his throne did not fail to
afhire hini; that complaint was nothing more
than the mm mur of {edition,and reiponftrance
the clamour of rebellion.
But they knew net the people with whom
they had to contend. A people, sagacious and
enlightened to discern, cool and deliberate to
difi ufs, firm and resolute to maintain their
rights. From the fit® appearance of the
system of parliamentary opprefflon under the
fo-m of a stamp ast, it wps met, by the de
termined opposition of the whole American
Continent. The annals of other nations have
produced instances of fuccefsful struggles to
break a yoke previously imposed ; but the
records of Hiftoi y did not perhaps furnifli an
example of a people whole penetration had
anticipated the operations of tyranny, and
whose spirit hud diltiained to fuffer an experi
ment upon the ( ir liberties. The ministerial
partizens had flattered themselves with the
expectation that the A& would execute it
feJf; that before the hards of Freedom could
be raised to repel the they would
be loaded with fetters; that the American
Samp Ton would be shorn of his locks while
asleep ; and when thus bereaved of his ftrengjb,
might be made their f'port with impunity,—
Vain illusion !—I; ftantarec us and forcel ; b
as an ejeftrip spark, the fervid spirit of re
finance pervaded every part of the country ;
aijd at the moment, when the operation of
the system was intended to commerce, it
was indignantly rpje&ed, by three millions of
men ; high mil ded men, determined to fa
crifice their exigence, rather than refjgn the
Liberty, front whigb, all its eijoyments \vere
derived.
It in unn:ce(Tary to pursue the detail of ob
stinacy and cryeltv on the one part ; of per
severance and fortitude on the other, until
the period when every chord which hod bound
the two countries l.igether, was deftoyed by
the violence of reciprocal huftilitiei, and tie
Wednesday, July 51, 1795. [Whole No. 444/,
484-
*
... 4 w-p -
- • *« •■'—-- -
5 BY JOHN
j -cpre'entarives of adopted the
I measure, which was already dictated by the
S wifhe<; of their conftitucnts ; they declared
| the United Colonies free, sovereign and iuue-
J pendent States.
An\ericans ! let us pnu/e for a mojnent to
consider the fitnation of our country, at that
eventful day when our national exigence
commenced. In the lull pofTeffion mid en
j joymrnt of all those prerogatives for which
I you then dared to adventure upon 4i ail the
[ varieties of untried betysL't the calm andiet
i tTed moderation of the mind, is scarcely com
j peret)t to conceive the tone of heroism, to
which "the fouls of freemen were exalted in
tliat .hour of perilous magnanimity. Seven
teen times has the fun, in the progress of his
3nn.ua 1 revolutions, diffused his prolific radi
ance over'the plains of Independent America.
Millions of heats which then palpitated' with
the rapturous glow off patriotism, have al
ready been translated t.o brighter worlds ; to
the abodes of m >te tlian mortal freedom.
Other millions have arisen to receive from
t'leir pa-etits and the :neftrma
bie ■r<- , compen'e of their archil vements. A
ne-volence is at this moment Kfteinng to the
speaker of the day, like him were at that 1 pe
riod too little advanced beyond the threshold
of life to partake of the divine enthusiasm
which inspired the American bosom ; which
prompted her voi-ce to proclaim defiance !
to the thunders of Britain ; which confccra
ted the banners of the armies ; and finally
ereftfd the holy temple «»f American Liberty.,
over the tomb of departed tyrapuy. Jt is
f 'om thoG? who have already pasTed the meri
dian of life ; it is from yon, ve vene able af
ferters of the rights of mankind, that we
are to be informed, what were the feelings
which swayed within your breads and impel
led you to action, when, like the {tripling of
IfneaJ, with scarce a weapon to attack, and
without a shield for your defence, you met,
and undismayed, engaged with the gigantic
greatness of the Britifli power. Untutored
in the difgraceful science of human butchery ,;
deftituteof the fatal materials which tfoe in
genuity of man has combined, to sharpen the
fcyth? of death ; unfnpported bv the arm of
-TV,*--'. J } ► ~ L V
nf ten on reletting ebe~
mfj you did not hesitate at that moment,
when your coasts vc/c infefi.ed by,a formida
ble fleet, when your territories were invaded
by a numerous ?nd veteran army, to pro
nounce the sentence of eternal feparatinn
from Britain, and to throw the gauntlet at a
power the terror of who'e recent triumphs
was almofi: co extenGve with the earth—The
Interested and felfifli propensities which in
times of prosperous tranquility have such
powerful.dominion over the heart, were all
expelled, and in their {lead, the public vir»
tnes, the spirit of perfwnal devotion to the
common cause. a contempt of every danger
in comparison with the subserviency of the
country, had aflumed an unlimited controul.
The paliion for the public, had -absorbed all
the reft ; as the .glorious Iwminary of heaven
extingu'fbes in a flood of refulgence the twink
ling fpJendo'r of every inferior planet. Thole
of you my countrymen who weie altars ill
those interesting scenes, will bed know, how
feeble, and impotent is the language of this
description to exorefs the impaflioned emo
tions of the foul, with which you wert then
agitated: yet it were injuilice to conclude
from thence, or from the greater prevalence
of private and motives in these days
of calm serenity, that your sons have dege
nerated from the virtues of their fathers.
Let It rather be a fubje6t of pleasing reflexion
to you, that the generous a»d, disinterested
energies, which you were summoned to dis
play, are permitted by the bountiful indul
gence of Heaven to remain latent in the bo
soms of your children. Fro;fl the prefect
prosperous appearance of our public affairs,
Wf may admit a rational hope that our coun
try will have no oecafion to require of us
those exraordinary and heroic exertions which
it was your fortune to exhibit. Eut from
the common versatility of all human destiny,
fliould the profpeft hereafter dofken, and the
clouds of public misfortune thicken to 2 lem
peft ; ibould the voice of our country's ca
lamityever call us to her relief, w swear
by Ihe precious memory of the (ages who
toiled, and of the heroes who bled in her de
fence, that we will prove onrfelves not un
jrbkt&y of the prize, which they so <lea»!y pur
chased • rliat we will ast as the faithful dis
ciples of those who so magnanimously taught
us the inflru&jye leflpn of republican virtue.
Seven years of incfieftual hcftility, an hun
dred millions of treasure frnitlefsly expended,
and uncounted thonfands of human lives fa>
crifjeed to no purpose, at length taught tie
dreadful lesson of v ifdom to tie 13ritifh Go
vernment, and compelled them to relinquish
a which they had long since l>een unab e
to maintain. The pride of Britain, tvlu*_h
fhc.nld have been humbled, was only mortified.
Willi fallen impotence, she yielded to tie
pressure «,f accumulated calamity, &».d closed
with reluctance an inglorious war. in whici)
?, No. 34, NOPTH FIFTH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA.
>
;} 4S,
I <V had often tho objefl-, a-;! rxxly the
a&or of a tviiimpli.
The various ocru-rc-ces M" onr national
hiftorv, finte that period, are u irhin the re
collec'ritw of«s myhes • e-r, Tn* relaxation
and (lability <>l tTie political body, which 'iic
ceeded the violent potion* it barf made du
ring the- war : the total metfic.uv of fke're
commcndatorvfedera! system, which had Ue.i
formed -a the hofbm of coiit? ntitfn } the
peaceable and deliberate adoption of a mors
effectual national Cefrfl-.tiitign by the people of
the union, and the proFperfHj', administration
of that government, which has lepaired the
(hattered fabric of public confidence, which
has ftren;;thened the salutary bands of nation
al union, and restored the bloom and vigour
of lHijMrtial jultice,to the public countenance,
afford a fohj-ft of pleasing contemplation to
tie patriotic mind. "The repeated unanimi
tv of/he nation l,a<! placed at the head of the
American councils, rhe heroic leade , whose
prudence and valoor condnfted to victory the
arm es of freedom ; and tlie two fi'-ft otiice*
of rW< Commonwealth, (li;i exhibit the vir
tue'; and employ the talent* of the vrt'e'aWe
prir-ots, wliofe fi'-ro a d diftiiffetefted devr
fion to the cau r e of Llbe- ry, wai rewarded
bv the honorable drftinftion of a Br'nTh -p'o
cription. Am?) 'tans ! the voice of grates ul
freedom is a ftran er to the language ofadu
lation. While we' w 1(1) tbefc- iljnftfftm* sa
ges to lx? alTu ed that Hie memory of (heir ser
vices is imprejfed upon id] our hearts, in
clraiafters, indelible to the latest pe i<,d of
tiine, we trul that the rn .ft acceptable tr .
but-• of refpeft winch can-be offered ro 'heir
vrtnes, is found in the confidence of their
countrymen. From the fervent rrfinii,-t-ion
ol luture ages, when the hiflorir.ns of Ame
rica, lb all -trace from their examples the
splendid pattern of public virtue, th. ir me its
will receive a recompense of much mo it pre
cious estimation than can be conferrcif fr the
mod flattering teftinionials of ion tempo ra
neoii* applauTc.
Tlw itoajn'rhut? ni'fl importance (»f the
great event which we derives
a vast t acccifeon.fruru its influence upon the
affairs al t!>e wprjc!, and its operation upon
fh" h 'Vrr r»<;-r ffll "Vi l |4 It has already teen
volution beai's a different from that
of any civtl C<Wtt?ff, thai had ever ari
sen among men. It was not the convuHive
ftrnggle of tlairftry to throw off the bu»den of
accumulated opprefTion but the deliberate,
though enei petic effort of freemen, to repel
the insidious approaches of tyranny. It was
a contest involving the elementary principles
of government, a question of right between
the sovereign and the f'uhjeft which in its pr«>-
greflj had a tendency to introduce a:iux: £ the
civilized nations of Europe, the difcu£an of
a topic the firft in magnitude, which c<:ti at
tract the attention of mankind, but which for
many ctnturie-, the gloorhy (hade-; of defpot
i'm had overspread with impenetrable d.vik*
ness. The French nation cheerfully Uipport
ed an alliance with the Uni ed Stares aid a
war with during the courle of yi.icb
a large body of troops ai d confidtrablc fleets
xveiefer.t hy the French government, to a£t in
conjunction with their new allies. The un on
which had at firft been formed by the coa:ef
cence of a common enmity, was soon si en tb
ened by the bond* of a friendly intercourse,
and the inhjefts of an arbitrary prince, in
fighting the battles of freedom, soon learnt
to cherilh the catife of Liberty itfelf. By a
natural and eafv application to tbetiifelves of
the principles upon which the Americans »f
---ferted thejuftice of their warfare, they were
led to inqui-e intothe nature of the obligation
which prescribed their fiibnvflTon to their own
sovereign ; and when they discovered that
the consent of the people is the only legiti
mate sou ce of ?utho iry, they neceifaril/
drew tlie conclusion that their own obedience
was no more than the compujfive acqu'ef
cenre of fervitnde, and they waited only for
a favorable opportunity to recover the pbf
Jeflion of rhofe enjoyments, to which they had
neve? forfeited t;ie right. Sentiments of a
si lilar nature, by a gradual and impercep*
tible progre.s, fecretiv undermined all .the
foundatio- ft of their government ; and when
the neceffit-ies of the sovereign reduced li m
to the inevitable expedient of appealing to
the bene vol. nee of the peop'e, the magic taliP
man of despotism was broken, Hhe fpeli of
prefcrjptive tyranny was diflolved, and the
pompous pageant of their monarchy;, instan
taneously c turn bled to aronis.
The fub'equent European events winch
have let flip the dogS of war, to prey upon the
vitals cf humanity ; which have poured the
torment of over thefaireft harveflj
of European fertility.; which have unbound
the pinions of desolation* ai d Pent her forth to
feat tec peftiiente and death among the na
tions : the I caffold, smoking with the Wood of
a fallen monarch; the corpse-covered freid,
sphere agonizing nature flruggles with the
pangs fct' dilloTtftion; pe nric me my lappy
countrymen, to throw a pall over ohje&sl ke
fhete, which could only spread a gloom upon
the face of our Let us rather in r
V
y-. 'v -f4*
nVf thr plenfiv.g and Mtic'pat" n of
heVeriod, wl.. •• ■>'! t e nations ot Europe
•all wartake of- >ne bM SI V' s
■rf oniver.'al peace. Wnattier tliir may be
.-'t"Kd by i l .- will «*' to await t..e
trmnacion ol the otefvM Kuitopewi cminin
,olls, the fyltertr of feudal aVu'd.tj has r£ "
eived an 1. recoveiaWe wcu d, and every
Vmptotn indicates its approaching diflo'ution.
rhe feed, ol" Liberty ire plentifully'own.
However levere the climate, however barren
; lie foil of the regions in wMcti they have been
rrcived, such it tiie native exuberai ce of the
liant, that it ninft eventtnlly flour: fh with
luxuriant pr«fof»»n. Tie cover..jxer.fs «1
Europe in nit fall S a.d '»* ««»* W* m "? •*"
pedicnt in their pl»w*r, is to gathw up tl.cjr;
garments.and fall With decency. The hords
of civil fubjtftion rnuft be looiei.ed by tic dis
cretion of civil authority, o> they « ill lie fln
vered bv'he corvolfive cijbrt-. ot slavery it
felf. The feelings of benevolence involunta
rily m ike therofclves a party to every circum
ltance that can a (feet the bappinefs «» man
kind ; they are ever ready M realize the lan
•uiue hope, that the governments to rife upon
the ruins of the present fyftem< will be immu
tably founded upon the ncp es ol t eednin,
and admimflered by the genuine maxims of ]
moral subordination and political equality.
We cherish with a liindnefs which cannot be
chilled bv tlie cold unannnated philofophv ol
f.cpticifm, rhe delightful expectation that tie
cancerof a:b trary power will be radically ex
tracted from the human constitution ; that
the foti'ces of oppreflion will he drained ; that
the paffionj which have hitherto made the
misery of mankind, will be disarmed of all
their violence, and give place to the foit con
troul of mikl and amiable feutiments, which
(hall unite in social harmony the innumerable
varieties of the human race. Then fliall
nerveless arm of superstition no longer inter
pose an impious barrier between the be-efi.
cence of Heaven, and the adoration of its vo.
taries : then (hall tlie mod distant regions of
the earth be approximated by the gentle at
t action of a liberal intercourse : then (hall
the fair fabric of qniverfal Liberty rife upon
the durable foundat 011 of fecial equality, and
t le long-expecled sra of human felicity,which
has been announced by prophetic inspiration,
and defer.bed in tho inoft enraptured largur.ge
of the Muses, fliall commence its piendidpro.
grefs Viiions of bills ! with every breath to
Heaven we speed an ejaculation thai the t;me
may haflen, when your reality fball be no lon
ger the gi ound of votive fupplicat.on, hut the I
theme of grateful acknowledgment : when
the choral gratulations of the liberated my
riads of the elder world, in fymphonv, sweeter
than the music of the Ipheres, lha'.l hail 1 our
c-'U'itrv, Amercans! as the youngest daughter
of Na'tu e, and the firft.born offspring of
Freedom.
The following Address frcm the Inhabitants
of Alexandria, was pelented to the Prcfi
dent of the United inft.
States.
The Address of the Inhabitants oj
Alexandria and its Vicinity.
Sir,
THAT America should remain
in peace and enjoy the blessings
of her free government, undiftui ti
ed by European concerns, we be
lieve to be the earnest desire of eve
ry well-winter 10 our country ; and
vre feel the most cordial fatisfallion
in expressing to you our convitftiun
of the part you have taken to pre
serve the public repose and happi
ness. In declaring by your procla
mation the condutft which ought to
be pursued by the people of the
United States towards the bellige
rent powers of Europe, a new 111-
stance was prefemed to yout fellow
citizens of your vigilance in dis
charging the important duties of
your station, and } ou have exhibit
ed to the nations of the world a
striking proof of the candour and
juflice which govern the politics of
t he republic over which you preside.
Sincerity, good faith, and 11 uih,are
virtues belonging to the republican
character. We rejoice that they
have been cherished and praAifed
in the adminiflration of our govern
ment, and we confide that a Heady
and manly adherence to them will
furnilh an example of a people liv
ing under a republican form of go
vernment that will meet the appro
bation of all mankind, and be pro
ductive of univerfa) happiness.
Accept, Sir, our aflurances, that
individually our condoli shall be re
gulated on every occasion by that
I'pirit of amity and impartiality
which you have enjoined.
Bv order of the meeting.
DENNIS RAMSAY, Chairman.
Alexandria, July qth, 1793.
To which the President returned
the follwing Answer :
To the IsHaer tan T s of Alexandria
and its Vicinity >
Ghntlkmen,
DEEPLY impressed with the im
portant advantages which the
United States will experience byre-
niaiiiino in pesce dm ingt'ne prtfeirt
ton;ef\ among the p.»wers of
rope, ii is with the h:gheft (atistae
lion thai I receive this manifeilati
-011 of your wishes for the preferva
11on of that invaluable blelnng, and
the approbation which you express
of the ineafures which ha*e been
taken to secure a continuance of our
prelent happy Gtuation. To com
plete the American character, it re
mains for the citizens of the United
States tofhew tor the world, that the
reproach heretofore ealt upon i
publican governments, (or the!*"
w ant of itability, is without found av
lion, s when that government is the
deliberate choice of an enlightened
people ; and 1 am fuliy peifuaded,
that every well-wifiter to the hap
piness and prosperity of this coun
try will evince by his contlutit, that
we live under a government of
laws, and that, while we preserve
inviolate our national faith, we ate
deliroos of living in amity with all
mankind. G. WASHINGTON.
United States.
KNOXVILLE, June 15.
On the morning oftheioth June,
the South Welt Point, a loldier
belonging to the 12th Company of
infantry, in jdfub legion, was guil
ty of the horrid deed of Suicide
In a very deliberate manner heload
ed tils inulker, and after seating him
felf on a bench, tied a ftrjng to the
tiip-yer of his gun and the other
end'to his toe, (placing the muzzle
diretSljr under bis left ear) and in
a ftrcond commenced his march for
the garrison of fpi'its.— His name
was John Mtiller, an Englilhman—
he w as generally fond of whiflcey to
excess. Hail ye Wkijkey Drinkers and
Jollow the Hero !
PITTSBURGH, July 20.
Extrafl oj a Utter from the Comi'iitf on
ers appointed to treat with the In
dians, dated at Fort Erie, June 28,
1793, to a gentleman in this town.
« We have received a letter from
Mr. Wilson, dated at Detroit the
WatiflWijrt? vniTrvegirfc
ning to counsel among tliemfelves,
at their general meeting at the Ra
pids of the Miami of the Lake. We
jhall fail with the fii ft wind to De
troit l iver, and go to Sandufky as
soon as we find the Indians are rea
dy to procced thither from the Mi
ami*"
CHESTERTOVVN, (M.) July 26.
Extratf of a litter front an amiable
Lady of Baltimore, dated i%th July,
to a friend in Cacil county.
" The common newspapers must
have informed you of the late aw
ful carnage of Cape-t'rancois. Our
town is full of the miserable fugi
tives, and imagination can (carcely
form an idea of the wretched situa
tion in which they arrived here.
" The Baliiinoreans, 1 think,
with unexampled humanity and be
nevolence have leceived and ad-.ni
ntftered to their several necefliiies.
At a meeting on 'Change a fubfcri p
tion was immediately opened, and
in the cotirfe of two days ir,ooo
dollars were subscribed. Ten.mer
chants alone at 300 a piece subscrib
ed 3000 dollars ; and in addition to
this generous donation, all rank's
and denominations have opened
their doors to receive and accom
modate those unhappy fufFerers,
without money, clothes, or the com
mon necellaries of life. My Mr.
subscribed 100 dollars to the
general itock,and brought two gen
tlemen home with liim, who are
now become a part of our family,
and who we mean to make as com
fortable as we can, until they csm 1
form plans for their own accommo
dation. They aie genteel, agreea
ble men, rather palt the meridian
of life, but very amiable and conci
liating in their manners. Their
health evidently fulfers from the
wretched Itate of their minds : Yet
they are happy compared to the si.
tisation of fame. There are women
of rank separated from their hus
bands, uncertain whether they took
refuge in a-ioiher \ellel, or fella
facrifice to the infargtnts—Children '
«»tihou' parent*. " r '" l r<s
»ccuutn of tfi e n»fj 1 v es—'"Slf 3 i i
tiler, <I.oli>cr, brother or Gtier 101 l
livery one hai friends and for
tune to lament,and foroe ihcir <!eaf
eft connections : yet from their
misfortune* We may learn a leilon
truly salutary, and, if attended to,
may be a blefling to this country,
thai it was not the power ot theii
enemies that destroyed them, but
jhe weaklier* occasioned by parly,
fjtfion, and a want of unanimity.
BOSTON, July 20.
] The tragical scene lately exhibit
ed at Cape-Krancois, (hews the lie
ceflity of govei rvment and subordi
nation. There *« fawtwo au;h.<
rities exist, antj we law (what the
great deliueaior of nature, Shake
speare, fays ever will take place}
how loon disorder entered by the
gap, and both devoured. The ciii
zens of America may well rejoice,
that their lines are cafl in fogoodly
an inheritance.
The Editors of the Briiifli VVeft
India papers, seize every opportu
nity to transcribe from American
Gazettes every paragraph which ap
pears holtile to the Engliftrgovern
ment ; and to give them an exafpe
rating colour : 1 hey fay " that the
late Unite J States has become a French
Department ; that Citizen Ger.et has
virtually alTumed the reins ot go
-vernuient, and that the will of the
National Convention is the supreme
law in America." _ •
On language and insinuations like
the above, no comment is necellat y.
A Correspondent fays,
It is rather fmgular that all the
Captains of American veliels who
have received infuhs and outrages
from the Britilh cruisers, ihouKl be
those who have arrived at Philadel
phia and New-York A great num
ber of naval commanders who have
arrived here, mention their being
boarded by those cruisers, but from
them we have not heard of any
plunderings or insults. As those
accounts have appeared in papers
capable of admitting the groflefl af
fertious aimed at our beloved Prefi
dent—they will receive but little at
-* i * n» «C«iw ji 1 i n f'l *
J been received ; if any American
property has been plundered, there
is spirit fufficient in the Executive
of the United States to demand re
i paration ; and if such reparation is
denied, to make proper repril'als.
The aflertion of a " Jacobin" in
a late Philadelphia paper, that the
President of the United States, i. e.
"the Executive ofthe United Scares"
is preparing " to join the league of
Kings againtt France;" is one of
those barefaced falfehoods which
defeat the intentions of their pro-
mulga.ors : And is a species of am
bitjh insult to the people of the
United States, which none but a
real " Jacobin" could commit. If
we despise the fabricators of such
falfehoods, we ought not neverthe
less to Coffer them to deceive the
world that knew them not.
The 4th iudant has been more
universally celebrated this year than
in any preceding one. The blefl'-
ings of Independence, Peace, Liber
ty and Good Government, are uni
versally experienced—and the ac
knowledgoient is the fpontaneotis
effufion of gratitudeand patriotism.
Perdition catch the man who would
to lellen (hei>le(Tings we enjoy.
Of the Toasts of 1 his toalUng-lea
son, if the following is not the rnoji
elegant, it is the most original It 'was
given in a neighboring (ta e, and is,
May a hurfc's night-cap be the reward
of every cue who wijhc;s to involve the
United States in war."
July 24.
A letter fuxq a gentleman at Sr.
Pierre, warmly inrereftcd in the
Revolution of r ranee in favor ofthe
patriotic party, dated June 27,1 793,
and received by Capt. Tucker, in
forms as follows: "On the 24th
ult. I arrived at Trinirv, where the
vefl'el and niyfelf were detained by
the RoyclifUj until they were beat
en attd the town taken by Gen. Ro
chani beau's party. Several other
Americans are placed in a momen
tary dilemma (hecatife they had
fold'to the RayalMts)
payment of the carries : ! ha.i b.>
ever tWSGeneral's promfe ■ 11 j, e>
<•» «fl 911 receive fat:*/. *:icr>.
Uti.;£i .i ii: iri 5y « tUI! aicif, i.« ii .
i by <»»c yauy than r.riuiftjef. T»o ••
I thirds ill Jeift, of the plantation?
destroyed—Negroes in aims—Men,
women and children of any refpe< r t«-
ability driven off, plundered or uiaf
facred. In lhorc, we want but an
earthquake to fiil the measure of
our misfortunes, and to biing upon
us annihilation ; the lighted pu
iiifhment which the people of this
unhappy iflJnd ought to expetft at
the hand of omnipo!ence.
" 1 hree i!a»s lime the Engliih
fqnadron evacnaied their port at
tale Navite, and have disappeared.
Thej cannot with their present
force, take the llland, which feeius
to be in the hinds or so many legi
ons of devils, fay negroes and mu
laltoes, fpteading ilcatli and de
ftrmSion round them, under the
specious, but much abused garb, of
liberty and equality."
[Ano her account fully confirms
the reports refpe-fting the failure of
the Englifb attack on Martinique—
they have abandoned t he enter prize
after having fuffei ed feverelv by one
column of their own troops engag
ing another, through mid tke — I. ap
pears that ilie Englijli landed iboot
1200 regular troops— their lots is
not particularized.]
At a ve. y fuH aiid refjie :t'.b!e
meeting of the Merchants and o
thers, concerned in trade', r v li.g'
in Bolton, and convened at r' • e wi'-
Hall,by Public Notific uion.un Moil
| day. Jily 22, 179;.
Vo re t>, — That, in the opinion t f
this body, the Preliden 's la'e Pro
clamation. declaii g the L l- >i;ed
Stales to be in a Hate of Neutrality,
and calling on the citizens to con
duct accordingly, was a wife and
prudent meafui e, well-timed,found
ed 011 fatft, and calculated to ("ecure
the honor, and (o promote the true
iitterefts and happiness of our coun
try. . ...
V'lttr!, —That in'oor opinion there
fore, an attentive conformity to the
laws of Neutrality, and the obliga
tions of exilling Treaties, is the in
dispensable duty of all good citizens;
and we conceive that to promote it,
-rmm. iht* primary objc<& of thai Pro
clamation.
And in order to preserve that
ftnte of Neutrality, so important to
the interest aiui honor of this coun
try.
Vot.'d, —That Should any Citizen
of the United States, become inter
ested in, or fit out any Privateer < r
armed Vefi'el, to cruize ngaiiift ei
ther of the Belligerent Powers, the
other Citizens of the United States
ought to use their endeavors, to
bring him to condign punilhnient,
for luch nefarious breach of the
laws of Nations, and the rules of
Neutrality,
Voted, —That to prevent and dis
courage, at far as we can, such cri
minal eondu<ft, We will give our
utmuit aid to dete<f and bring to
legal ptmifliment, tkofe vtlio rtrail
be guilty of ir.
Voted, — That a Committee, con
fiding of the Hon. Thomas Ru(?e'!,
Stephen Higginfon, Julio C. Jones,
Efq'rs. Mr. Nathaniel Fellows, Mr.
Samuel Brown, Dr. Charles Jarvis,
and Mr. Eben Parsons, be appointed
to have these Refoluti.ons printed in
the several newspapers ; and to
tranftnit copies to the other f«a»
ports in this state, desiring their
concurrence, if they conceive them
adapted to promote the public good,
Per order of the Committee.
Thomas H. Perkins, Sec'ry.
The Kefolutions adopted by the
citizens of this town jefterday, a
correfpondcnt thinks, will have the
happy tendency to avert those evils,
which tlie envious principles of
fame, the tetnpei of orhers, and the
avarice of more, were likely to en
tail on the United States. The;e
cannot be a doubt, but that the citi
zens of the several mercantile towns
of the Commonwealth, as well as
those of the inland counties, will
join in refokirions, in the ex.enfion
of the p: inciples of « hich they at e
so much interested. It is now time
thev came forward.
If, ' 's a Correlpondenr, anv one
ha a doubt on the fubjetft of the
finality of the United States, let
kim read " PACIFfCUS." He wffl
'5#Therein fiitdSCLID Argum:nt,whtch
i»ii the [roth i»r ii inic calliiig Dtcin
mutton, never can controvert —On
the I'ubjeCi of an J War, the
rea/oi not the pajfiom of mankind,
ought to be add relied.
Citizen Genet's refptti for the go
vernment of the "beloved" Ameri
cans, and the Officers who adminis
ter it, is itnintntly confticubus in his
ifluing coinmiffions to privateers, in
the United States, Jong before
he had (hewn his credentials as Am
baflador, er was acknowledged as
such.
The Dutch, we understand, ha\ e
the laws liberty, by treaty, to fit
out privateers from the United
States, as the b'rcnch have.
Philadelphia, July 51.
On Saturday iaff came on before
tl.e Circuit Court of the United
States the trial of Gideon HenfieJd,
indicted by the Grand Jury for en
iei ing and fer.ving on board the Ci
tizen Genet French privateer, he be
ing a citizen of the United States.
After the arguments of the Coiinl'el
were heard, viz. Mr. Randolph and
Mr. Pvawle in support of the profie
cution, and Melfrs. Serjeant, Inger
fol and Duponceau for the defend
ant — Ihe Court in their address to
the Jury gave their opinion unani
mously that as the treaties With so
reign powers, conliitute part of the
lav.s of ihe United States, the of
fence described in the indictment
was an infringement not only ps
the laws of nations, but also of the
law sos the United States. Monday
the Jury returned into Court; when
it appeared, that eleven were for a
verdict of acquittal, and one for
finding the defendant guilty. fbe
Court then feparaiely and diftintftly
repealed to the Jury the law—and
required that they should again re
tire, and reconlider their verdict.—
About 7 o'clock in the evening the
Jury brought in a verdiift, not
guilt?. After which the Jury
was difillifled and the Court ad
journed.
Cup J if a Utter to the Mini ft er I Icr.i
'potent'.ary oj TFe T'rench Repulitc,
at Fhiladelphia.from Citizens U'ante
and Dssfourneaiix, the firft oj -whom
is admiiliftrator, and the fieond mili
tary coj/imander at Pvrt-au-rrince j
datf d ths 29if) Jnii:, 1793.
** You. have undoubtedly learnt
before this by tlie arrival of the
ships of the Republic in the differ
ent cities and pons of the conti
nent, and also by that of the mer
chant th>pa under their escort, the
dreadful misfortunes, of which the
Cape has been the theatre ; you
mult have been ft ruck with horror
at (he account ; and we acknow
ledge 1 hat it is difficult to avoid
looking upon it without such a feel
ing. /is we doubt not that the trai
tor Ga'bstud, '..he sole author of so
jnauy rtiijies. lis*, iu order to ex
culpate himfelf, fpi ead calumnies
agaiull the civil commiffioneis, for
the pui pose of giving a final blow
to this unhappy country ; we have
rcafun to fear that he has publicly
aliened that the general enfran
chifeinent of the Haves has been de
creed, that he 'might Ey~thiS calum
ny prevent that aid and fubfillalice
which we should expetft from the
Unised States, and cause all kind
of fhipmenrs to this island to ceale ;
We therefore take the firft oppor
tunity of alluring you that we here
enjoy the 1110 ft perfect tranquility ;
that this city has, since the misfor
tunes of the Cape, been the refuge
of ihe Americans "who had not com
pleted the (ale of their caigoes ;
that they have obtained finni the
plains which surround us produce
with which they arc loaded ; and
iii a word, ihat they have received
,hat support and protection that
,hey had a right to expect."
A correfpoodent dpfires to be informed,
whether the proclamation ofCttizer; PoivereJ
anil Son thorax, as I'uMtJhid in all the paper;
declaring aM tl c bUtk warriors free, is a
forgeiy, or i;o| i
The BritiAi Vi £ate B lton, of 32 guns,
Capt. Coui cnev—- d a tender of ten guns,
ere ennfmg off Sandy Hook. We hear tint
Su ;j:ft Oourtney has sent an invitation to
Cit.z.n Bjmpaid, proraifir* to wait ten days
tor lint.
\ £x?ra£l of a Mf-r fr»*• n a vrtJ'* at Copc-
I'V.mco.., •i'sUti j «»iy o
e< Rfefofc th.;. gets o you no doubt,
have beird of the 'rnubuiutu s (hat havr befallen
tfiis melancholy place—courlc it is umi c< il •»-
ry for me tc> attempt a d.'fen prion ot its piefcnt
fiiuanon. Suffice it however to fay, mat upon
our arrival (the i II inft.) the town had been burn
ing, eight days, after being given up to the plun
der of the negroes. The number of the inhabi
tants who tell a faenftee upon this occasion, is
computed at about Gx thpulajul—in fho-t, we
have witnefled nothing but tfapine and murder ;
the scenes of diflrefs I have observed here, ex
ceed any thing I ever cxpe&ed to have met
with. If the unfortunate people who r< rmin
h*re<fcape minder, it is more than probable,
a pewilcnce will ensue from the fiatr of the dead
bodies, which arc jyin£,in the Arret* of the
town expefed to the weather, and the number ts
evcrv moment mciealmg.
" The merchants who were fortunate enough
to save their Ims, havi all lc!t the plqjce,, so ihat
no pnrchalt'i n mains heie but the Conimiflary ;
he offers to pu-chafe, but acknowledges it is not
in his power to pay until he receives coffee ! rom
Por.t-au- Prince, which is altogether uncVttarn.
" In the mean time at» attack from the Spa
niards (who are within a few leagues) is houtly
expr£tcd. The people at Jercmie arc declared
to be in rebellion, they having rctwfed to pav
tribute to the committal y, so that, in .ill proba
bil'tv, a ferond fecne wiil oe a&ed there.
" Such being the ftaie of things he re, have
th jt proper to proceed to some other part
of the iHand, and I ave obtained penriUri >n to
leave this place. Had we no cargo on board, 1
should immediately take as many p UVjigeis as
the veflTel could cair'y ;• hundreds arc now •'«>-
treating to be taken on board, as raimfliv js if
they were begging for their lives. Wc hav/,
however, been able io take on board but about
thirty."
'
FROM A CORRESPONDENT-
The Little Democ rat iired ar the sloop V,?n
throp, ffoin Boflon, within four mite* c?f the
Hio e, while fiie was lying too with her co
lours hoifled, and nearly hulled the pi l nt boat
that was attending her. She fiied Ave Ihot,
and then ordered the captain to hoi (I out his
boat and come on board him. This,.it is <a.,d
is the fourth instance of her having niftilted
the American flag, and that too, under land
or within the bay. — From hiitifli ana Fiefoh
Privateers andJrom war in every Jhape, Cool Lord
deliver us !
A correfpimdent lias authority to allure the
citizens of the "United State* that the mimfler
of Fiance has heard witV. pain a report, that
a vefTel belonging to the Republic Arnold have
offered violence to an American vtflel. The
minister has given orders that the offence
should be immediately enquired into, and the
captain if found guilty, Ihotild be difpkeed
and punished. He has 1 kewife given perem
tory directions to -ill coiiiiiiand.crs of vefiels in
the service ol the Republic, on the American
station, to pay that attention and refpeft to
the American flag which is due from one ally
to another, and conformable to tlv*
of treaty and friendihip.
At the late fecial feflion cf the Circuit
Court of the United States, an indictment
was found by the grand jury again ft Joseph
Ravara, Consul from the Republic of Genoa
for a misdemeanour. Mr. Ravara by his
Counsel moved to quafli the indictment, as he
contended that the Supreme Court of the
United States pofleffed ext/ujiie juril<Jjdiori cf
tlie cause, on account ol his cbai after as a
(point having been fully argued,
t'e Cou t, delveted their judgment theieon.
Judge Wi I fori ar.d Judge Peters were of opi
nion, that the Circuit Court possessed a jurif
ditftion concurrent with the fupteme court
refpefting Lotjuls, although not refpe&itrg Am
bujjudars. Iredell was of opinion, that
ti.e cause was excluftvelV cognizable in the
Supreme Court of the United States.
The motion was therefore over-ruled, and
the Defendant directed to plead to the in
dictment.
I ABSTRACToj FOREIGN INTELLIGENCE j
received by the so ig Polly, Cupt. Softer, in 63 days
Jrom RockcUc 1 in France.
THE Convention on the to h MayheM their
leflion in thrir new place of meeting, ihe Castle
of the Thuiileries. Die room is an oblong
square, otnamente'd with ihe portraits »f Butus,
iwlon, Lycurgus, Plato, and'others.
Dilvigreeable account* of the of the
Roy alt (is in the department of Poitiei.,, were
communicatcd to the Atfembly this day by a
member just returned from lii.it quarte t-Cam
hon communicated an account ol some fucctcfTes
against the Spaniards on the Frontiers.
May 11. A repoit wzs m.ide to the Conven
tion ol the treachery of Gen. Pet I no, who had
gone over to the Royalties wuh 2500 men, which
he had commanded at Thomrs.—A member
f«nd in the debate, that P. tino was rhc fiift 10
oyou' Huzza fur Louis XVll\ Huzza Jor the
Qj'tcn ! and to join to perfidy, t«jnaucilui, Huzza
jor Jesus Chriji!
'! he Na tonal Convention have granted the
Hononis of the Paothion to Gen. D^mpinre.
Gf n. Biron is appointed 10 command the ar
mics inter.ded to c£t against the rrbcls.
A decrce paiTed the Convention, rcguUtiog
and providing 'ot the School of the Deaf itfya
Duii b in Bourdf uk.
Such ol rht; Ihidtms in the Military S-.hool,
ai are gurify of f ncivilm, th Miniller of War
obtained liberty to fend back to ihcir telaitons.
Paris, May *.3. The on* are busy, with
true patriotic *iai,in compieauog the recruiting;
the poor offer thcmfelvts and the rich open their
purfts ; offices have been en&cd in several of
■ ne public (qua res for the enrollment ol recruits;
several proclamations h«tve been made bv the
beat of the drum and 01 her warlike tnftiuimnu
of music. The carnages and piovih >ris arc rea
dy, ftverJ bodies of regulars have gone off.—
The ritcice which places atl horses employed in
objr£u of luxury at the dtfpofal of the mimfter
ol war is itn&iy executed. Every p eafuie cai
j vige tob rb i> (lopped, and ;h- ho We a ta
ken to me o.<itorial iLiole.s. W-th-nit fcheK- me.a-
Wes it would be impuitibh- 10 itunilh V-•irfe-s
•for our cavalry, at a tfm-t whin oui lntcrcourfe
wilh Iw ign pons is interrupted.
May n» Agreeably ro the orders of the Mi
ll ifter at Wlf, 600 were sent off yester
day to Tours; lor Metz about 36,000 weight of
bullets ; fqr Verfailks 5 esmages of artillery,
gone there to be laden with 150,000 cartridges
torihearmyofVer.de-;.
li istho ,;ht that the rebels are commanded
by and Lambcfc. I; is certain that the
regiment, ci-devant Royal Allemarid, of which
the last mentioned had the command, is among
item ; many loldiers in red arc seen with them ;
they arf Enolift troops.
T&C di'miilion of the Mihifler at War is fpo
kr\ 1J ; ll'Nniharnois and Lafwarlicie fp.-ken
of "i'fijcc-.ed hihn.
We h«ar from Hreft that a French privateer
Ins kfoupV >nto Mor jaix the.Pdllas, fng.ae, from
India, She is the fii It which the EogtitW 100 k
, from us in 1778. This prize is valued at
liv'iefc.
Copvof a letter written by the. Administrates
coijjlitoting ibe Council of the D<? part mem de
la Vendee, Dtflrift of Fonrenay-le-P 11 i>le*,,
Laroche fur-Yon, in an extraordinary feffiori
aflfembled.
Fonti nay-le-P. uple, le 16 May, 1793,
Second year ol the French Republic.
Citizens*
We ha ilea to inform you of a fortunate event.
To-diy the rebels made their appearance before
our -town in conficlerable force, fupportcd by a
large rraiii of artillery. A f ter a cannonade,
which Lifted several hour*, our armv sallied out
lO'ffl Mr hern, and they were repulsed. Their
a'u • )ry, confining of 26 pieces, without fwi~
|fk, \6. was taken. Their p'ovtfions and ain- I
# baggage, a furnace to prepare red-hot I
liaUl ca i.t le, aru} eighty waggons laden with J
snd flour, are fallen into our bands. Our
"V3M guard oui fucd them as far as Iwo leagues.
mm went affords compensation for the lolfes I
. futUined at the a (fruits ol Breffune air? of
anil enables u • to recover what Iris ter
minate fcfrcumlft'itcts obliged us to give up.
We d<* riot mention the number of dead and
wounded of the enemy. On our fide there are
hut few of them, and prifonevs aic biought in
rvcry hour. »
(Sig'nrd)
MASSE, for the Vice-Prefident.
Copy of 9 letter written by Citizen Sandos, Ad
jutant General, Commander of the Army of
Saint Maixel.t, so the Adminilbators of the
D partment of D ux Sevres.
H ad Quarters at Fontenay-le-Peuple,
16 l» of May, fccond year of the
French Republic.
Citizen Admin ijlrators t
The fir ft news I have 10 announce to you, and
which vou are perhaps informed of alieady,
Will ci'llipate. the anxiety which the federates
tnay have caused you for fonie moments. Vic
tory ! Vi&ory ! was the rallying word hope in
spired us to exclaim. To-dav ne were blefTcd
to fee our aident wishes fulfilled—and future
flays will affoid us lull fatisfatlion. We have
ttt&cn an oath to purge France of the brigands
itei- jolutc her, and wc thall not think that ob- I
ircuiton'adquitecf but ou tHai day when not one
of them fiiijll exitt on the furfac.e of the country.
The cavalry headed by the brave Chalbos,
and the infaniry ? under my command, did per
form the duties of lepublicans and warriors, by
bravery as well as dignity of behavipur. Dur
ing the a&ion they (hone forth as heroes, but
wfyen vi£toi iom, they difpiayed all the virtues
of gtnerous men; their countenance frightened
the enemy so much, that f .hey put more confi
dence in their heels than in the thunders of that
Cod they had injured.
It was noon when the rebels made their ap
pearance. At five o'clock they we e defeated.
We took ten puces of cannon, 4& 8 pounders,
bdidcs 14 to 15 of inferior quality. They weie
so perfectly routed, that they were obliged to
relmquifh their ammunition and ptovifi >«i>. —
In a word, the Mod Holy Catholic Holt is re
duced to rccit the Seven Peni!en 1 iary Pialms,
apd nothing is left to them 10 our (abres and
cannon, but Aguces Dei and Crucifixes. Never
the laurels earned by the Heroes ps La Gnonde,
rjf the brave Warriors of Heiaui?, of 1,4 Viennc,
of Deux Sevres, of Deux Charemes, noi those of
the excellent Republicans of La Dordogne, will
decay in the Temple of Fame. In lhort,all in
dividuals, even the new levied recruits, have
contributed to that facrifice, worthy of liberty
outraged. This however is in our opinion but
the fitlt Iteps towards the arduous height of tri
umph.—Fare well.
(Signed) SANDOS,
Adjutant General Commander of Saint
Maixant. __________
Capt. Pcdrick, arrived at Marbhhead, Maf
fachu/eits, left Brest ihe 22d May—The Salem
Gazette informs, that Capi. Pedrick fays—that
he never saw men more determined in the. pur
suit of any obi £1, than the French are to com
plete the revolution. The accounts of the infnr
re&ions ir> Brrtannv, fVie Capt. further lays, are
not wholly unirue; ihey frequently take placc,
excited by obfol 'te nobles and clergymen—but
the numbers of the are comparatively
trifling, and whenever they appear in any force,
are quelied by the National Militia. The moil
dangerous rharafiers amoug the mfurgt*ni'. when
taken, aieguillotined. Capt. Pcdrick saw several
of these executions—among the Was one
•of the former nobility.
While Capt. Pcdrtck was a* Br. ft. there were
*i£arty 40 fail of the line in qoin
p'e ely < quipped, fully manned, and tc-aciy for
failing; their officers are now lach as h-ve rais
ed themf Ives by their bravery a;»G m-ri«, »*id
on whom ihey can depend. 'I heir p; uatcus
have been very fuccefsfui; and a number of
Eoglifti and Duich piizes a: r.vcd at Brtft while
Capt. [\dr.ck was there.
Ail kinds of piovHions were plenty and cheaD
in Fraocc, and men enough lor . vefy urpofc of
peace or war, and in the in- ilit • ;1 >.
Some rccept traftfaftioti*,* •ys a 1 (f^ondco^,
evincc the propriety of the «sd» *e —l hat a wiL
Shephcrd
Should never fct a woH * •
Ami be ;lic£uai«iui of ibe luecj>.
j**s >
The firfi in.u-ili.,ei»ce .ot Hit laiailrophe of
' Cape-I'i «turois was rcqi'ivu .i ill cu) — it v. a*
■hen (X.uf.tcd ihof. ct Wrt«fb« uui«uur.»!c tu
giliv.s would li.'ivc I J v ", lc:u 6 e $* d ,c,l4t '
amoog the citizens of Philadelphia. In conk
quince, 2 numSer of g ntieiucu aduaud by ..he
principles of benevolence look, luc—iujes tor their
reception and acconur>od<:t> l| o. Ik happens utut
the principal pan ot the lutferets aniveu ai Bel
timore —the cuizens or tnut j>i ice have d'.llin
gniftied themfelvs t>y the molt e*'raoitiuUry
exertions, and the ricbeft a£U ol ocncti.cnce and
charity—-their lubienpuoniamount to ft: teea or
twenty thouland dollars; but their &f/ipr !acr»-
ti.ee sow of benevo;er»ct t mult jjcceiUnlv
aiaourv in vj u , u> j m.n h <-' r ''"n. In Igch
a c.uiii. JioW glot ious i> a lp" it ol emulation.
Trie 01 l i zc. of t Ins metfopol'?, relicvHat from
tf>« immediate plclTurc of the weight of the fcur
thetr, wi'i doubticfa jufniy tlw.'n claim to <he
palm ot merit,as a gencrousand benevv>ivni com
munity. Their obligation* are iureiy not di
minished by the eximpic ot iftc Ckizcus of Bal
timore—and, fays our correfponden', it is tx
p<*£ted that :he iu'?lci ipriow ot the Citizens will
very loon amount to Thi kty Dol
lars.
A meeting of the Committees appointed tp
receive will be held ar the Coffee
House To-morrow evening at 8 o'clock*
Mr. Ken no,
IT has been repeatedly observed that the
writers a gain it the adminifti ation ot the ge
neral government, are the old inveterate ene
mies of the comlitutioi) lffeif; this obferva
tian will app'y to the whole of that party
perhaps without excepting an individual.—»
It is vain to expert that these persons will
ever be at peace, »o long as our country is
free and happy-— ! >ut juttue requires that
thsy ihou-d unim.fk.vi. Reading the New-
Yo k Diary lately, 1 find th& foregoing re
marks corroborated by the peso; maot.e of a
1 itub of the above ant'tfederal junto in the
following qqotation—-which the reader will
observe amounts to a proportion for dissolv
ing the government of*the union, and revert
ing again to the dangers, imbecility, distress
and contempt of the year 1786—The wr *er
fays 41 I am firmly of opinio. , that our
security from foreign and domefi c foes, de
pends entirely 011 our Republican habits, and
that the principles of a confederat ion, not. the
absorbing abyis of a monaitluul form, under
the garb of republican i.lm, will keep
us free ; nor is it in the excise lclieir ts < 1 a
financier, or the Pruflun militia plan ot a
Secretary at war : but it is in the virtue, the
knowledge, the liberty, and the courage of
the people, under the State governments, that
\ye are to look for the props of freedom."
A q,U£RY,
WHAT punifhc tnt can and ought to be in
flicted on a Man, if Cut h an one thoe be, who
holding an office of importance, prollitutes that
office 10 the purposes ot Party; and theieby ha
zards the pcacf,. happincfk and his
country—yet does it in a way that keeps him
out of reach of the *rm of the Law ?
A Citizen of the Unitsd Stat i j.
Died, «t New. Havei., oil the tvening of the
23d in 11. Hon. Roger Sherman, Senator of
the United Slates for thv Slate o! Connecticut—
a uniform patriot aid good man.
—— In 1 his cit>, on Sunday la ft, after a flioif,
but levere illness, uniyerlally lamented, Mrs.
Mary Lear, the amiable and accomplifiied
wife of Tobias Lear, Esq. Secretary to the
Piefident of the United States, and on Monday
her funeral was attended by a train ot unaffe&ed
piouiners, to Chnft ChuTch bui ying-groundj
when her were interred.
Youth, Beauty, Virtue, Lovtlinefi and Grace,
In vain would footle '* the dull cold ear oj Death.**
—— At Mallow (England) Mil's "Whitby :
A gentleman, in a playful mood, drew a chair
from und*r her, as (he was going to (it down,
which otcafioned her to fall ; by this acci
dent her back was broken, and she died in
twenty-four hou's after.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVEDatIhi PORT oj PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Wamfagron, Syfveftcr, Wilmington
Bng Triton, Ridgway, Tortuga
Polly, Folker, Rochelie
Sukey, Parry, Rhode-J{].md
Schr, Expci iineut, ——Alexandria
Belley, Bradley, Virginia
Betky, Lambeth, do.
Polly, Keenr, Charleftou
Weymouth, Stephen*, New-York
'loop Rofc, WaiTon, New-York
Lucy, Bird,
Rainbow, MacVty, Cap£-Fiai«qif i
lildurtry, Can,- VrfgijMj^,
P-wky i
Eliza, Talttr, . Si. C\<isLa
iVicno'Siir, Chad wick, N. Caro|i^4
tlrc-ty, Ci«n, KkoA»-I<ta*Jl _
livrtj?" IWnkW, ~ Ktw-itMteliS^
■ &pu Nlfstifaof*i*4e« : p Biinb+Wifo(otmtf
bub* fyl<Aty* oo lit* ii.it
if Jlily, wilb ,43, Oil 17th hit
eU ig bound T»m*ic» 4«*t
>f 140 faili ioA on iftc i 1 ft vfM ni>trß<d by-
Capfc o*h»i:i**, »X I guß>, !
Irani )»maio*}HJlr«4-t» bf W* lol ®
lyg Macks)-;* pass; njprs ot about ,
*p;;»rek (fat »(»ncn.t.
fyit-d \fii- fpooiM in tWWwif:.
lt ! # *
•' ar&ftß t.he ,prfo» fenflr jafK,.
•£tnft?Sl§r»», twllfi) hog&fVdj ohrupi.
-Taly, fcupd
W i»k»" hJ% fitey
tact, nffCapc {jcM?*
fRBS«OF SHOCKS.
\v V. ,0 /.- : '
'*'"■■'•■ "•/ L- i, "
,| pa ccfiu m*.
6 per Ctr.ts,
3 ni'iC lits,
LKUrred,
lull thai a Bank U. S.
do.i IhiLJDELIhU.
?
Late AJiSShnt to Pttit't si.'. iejuu.
"J) A "ER made of afttflu*. It is curious, b«t
Jl i.as "not vet beciVipp/ id to lif ,: the kzi.ig
>v . . ■uut • 1 o the h :
kccoiac, jolt, changes from jell ;w:f> white,
to flight tmge oi MiiC and wai:t>tenacity.—*
Presented by Mr. ft c<i. titer.
i he Srubhic of a finale gram of Rye, whLh
on a let io rise ci Ph.iadclphia, in
J792, and produced 76 lia,; .aflj tdoz grains.
Prsfenrcd by Mr. John Barker.
A Chinder ol' a animal; like
those fount! at a fait lick on the Qftio;
was lately found 4 feet below the furfa c of the
earth, v. here a rivulet set nib to have formerly
run, near Warwick ifl Cecil county Maryland.
Pit fenced by' Mr. James Heath.
A bird oi the Ka.l kind, perhaps not notic
ed by any Naturall yas being a bird oi Ameri
ca. If at ail noticed it has the charad.eriitical
marks of those bird*, but is at leaii three times
4 large as the common Hail.
A Salmon and a Pi <.e csfcight in the
river, Western territory The firil is 3 * r ect 3
and a half inches long, and the latter 3 ie*;t 2
inches. Presented b\ Major John Sta^g-
An extraordinary piece of turnsd v/ork made
in China, being 9 ivory bails within each other
and each ball curiously ornamented differently \
the whole cut out of the solid, wi#h a chai fl
made also of ivory. Presented by Mr. Coper
hait.
A EufTaloe Cow, measuring 4 feet 4 inches
high At the hump, and 9 feet 4 inches from its
nostril* to the root ol her tail.
The large tailed'Jcjep % from the Cape of popd
Hope : this animal when it arrived, had no fijjn
«f wo*l excepting a very little on its ribs. Af
ter some months, wool grew over it as far as is
usual on common flieep, which was fine and
fliort. Present.-d by Captair I'ingy.
Afpecimen of tuindoiv gb>f* made at Boston.
It is far superior in whiteness, evenness of fur
face, rnd is freer of blisters than the best Euro
pean glass that we know of in America. Pre
/ fented by Mr. Ebenczer Hazard.
A number of preserved bird: from Great Bri-
among them the Pheasant, Magpye, Ruflf,
&c.
A spear taken from a negro in the a&ion at
Morn Pile in St. Domingo. Prefcn ted by Mr.
Mayer.
A curious (hell of a very large nut confuting of
1 lobes, holding 13 pints ; laid to be the Mai
divian Cicoanut: which was hooked up in 50 fa
thoms of water near Vera Cruz, in the Gulph ,
of Mexico. Presented by Mr. John Lawfon. |
A final 1 double turtle in lpirits,found at Duck .
creek, state of Delaware. Prefenced by Mr.
Plankinho n.
The Armidilla, or hog in armour, from
south America. Presented by Mr. Middleton
of Maryland.
Skull, us the royal tiger, mule and female,
nd of a mid Boar. Presented by Capt. Bell.
A Sraladlite, a large and beautiful specimen.
Presented by Mr. Sharpc Oelany.
Sundry specimens of cristals and petrefaftions
imong the latter are 2 Cornu amonis, or snake
stones, on meaf-iring across the coll 14 inchcs,
the orfier 9 inches. Presented by Mr. Leech.
A Cklnrfc Jig for keeping water cool. Pre
sented by Mr. Boidley.
Three haudfnme Davis, from the Bahama Is
lands (alive) Prtfented by Mrs. Beeflry.
The Mud Inguana, or fyrcn Lizard of Geor
gia Presented by Mr. Frm.tau of Sour!: Caroli-
A fine fpeciuien Coril. Presented by Mr.
iouty
Sheathing paper, of the inner bark of pine
mixed with hair, iJid a paper fit for book bind
ing box making,&c made of pinefawdust; from
the i>aper mill? <4 Mr. John Biddis, Northamp
ton county Pennfylvani* in 1793. Prtfeuted
by Mr. Jipple
A Eulltt of the Birch burl, ornamented with
Porcupine qulU\ Qffi. Made by a Canadian
Indian, and a handsome shoot of crystal. Pre
fcuted by the rev. Mr. N 'got of Baltimore.
An aflignat, paper money of France. Pre
ferred by Mr. Cutbufh.
The King Pi*g<"i, far superior to tjie con?-
mpn ones; a macaronie do. and a i:u.ill collec
tion of birds eggs, amongst them the Albatroft
egg, from the F lulkland iftands, South fcas. Pre
sented by Mr. Ab. De Peyster, of New York.
A petrefa&ion of a finall silt, like the ancho
vy inclcf din a piece of rock, found on the toj
of a mountain n«ar Naples, Italy; allies 1
mount Vesuvius, a piece of black coril, and ;
fniall collection of beautiful ihells fir am Naples
by, Mr. Mulfi.
A number of Coi/is a d ATclalf. Prefcnted b'
several friend-. of tile Mufcunj.
BANK qJ the UNITED STATKS.P
July i ft, 179.3.
* »r dim
mutcvr.t.vi-
FfT*.««, bempES?
dtfrtl tnomiir,' '
i - i<n»i\ l»"ii>' »■ r '-
Dou rrr.. wits '»f M. Dou i te. afti
inh«bti«t.pi du qt; rtHr ds Valliercs, 1 otl hr h>af
ui ihi* of »he C.ipr on the 2C«h
Junr tact. She !S igooTflW of his fate—She rc
qiicfts that those w h > snay h?vc it imheir jjnw- r
to give her lnfjM ;r»jiion refpcs her buf
banH, ■woutci tend to '.he house of M'p Hud
son, Hi^h-Qt.:r>. Bthitnore, wrier- she rrii't< s,'
or i MaH. <n' Q-v a\tf,, vn the fam. ft re —
A rr-tx.bHcatio/i eJ al/uvc by the feyeral printeri
is rtguejitd.
To the Public.
'T'liE Editor of tl>e Ot/xTTt or the ' kitea
*■ States, proposes publilhint tic 1 ,ev.
under thai Titje, every Evening, Sun day's
Tore iOsc it iaterefting as a-D.ii'v Pu'ji
carion, it flwll contain fm eig>: and domestic,
commercial and political Intelligence El
fayr. imd Observations, local ar.il general :—
Maritijne information Current i>f,
Vtercha itiize and tlw Public Fu-"l r - Alio a
fumniary of the. procecdirgs of Co/igrcfs, and
of tlit L.-gifluture of this State i—wijJl a
!krrcn #fCungrefiional Debates, &c.
/tovE*TiziNG favors wiii be g .itci'uily re
ceived.
TERMS.
To be printed on paper of the d.my size ;
but a larger size ftiaU be Aioil'tuted in Decem
ber next.
The pr'cc Six Dollars per Annum, to be
paid bjH'Tpaiiy.
When a number of Subscribers is
obtained, the Publication (hall commence.
In the interim, the Gazette will be publifli
ed twice a week as u r ual — Sub'ci ipr os are
refpeftfully solicited by the Public's humble
servant,
JOHN FENNO.
6ST Subs ribtions are r.-ceittd a! the C itx Tavern,
South Second Sheet —h\ Mr. Dcbfov. at the Stone
House— by other p/yjons nhp are rn pojjefio ofJub
frip/hm pabrrs. and b\ the Ldito* at his house y J
Xo. 34, j\'orih Fifth-Street.
Philadelphia, Jiitv, I "93,
THE t bI i vH
MOST ratneftly reqnejls tt>cft oj his dijlant Sub.
[crib**} who ate in arrears for Hie Gazette to wake
payment as soon a\ possible.— TJi'ofe perfoijs who have
receivedfibfcription money on his account are de-fired
to remit the fame. The arrearage* for thf Gazette
have accumulated to a serious amount—Serious t as
they are tie onlxrefource to ver\ Jeiious
engagements incurred in the prafeevtiov of this ex
peri five publication. Philadelpbi,_Jnn<* 26.
ADVERT! S E MEN T.
NfiWvJrascY, ) virtue of a Wiit to me
Sufjex Courtfy. IT. ) dire£tcd, ifFurri out of
Ihe M>gh Court ot Chanccry of New-J 'fey, at
the luit of W'Hiam Shipley agamft John M'ng
ai>d o'he r s ; I (hailexpofe to faleat Public Ven
due, on rh fix'li doy of -February next, b t ween
the hours of Twelve and Five »n the Aiterooon
of the fame day, on the Premises, the f Mowing
defcnbr<t Tra& ol Land, wirh itsapnurtenan' e.t,
(nuate in the TownPniyof Oxford and
of SulT. x, beginning at a Chefnur Oak. Tre<, cor
ner ot Daniel Cox's land, and Handing in the
line of a-foi mcr fui vey made to Thomas Steven
son, being marked with the 'letter B. and thence
extending along Coxc's line (firft) I .uth fifty de
grees weft fifty-five chainsand feven'y-five links,
to a B'ack-Oak Tree corner of Joseph ShiDpen.'s
land (second) south nine degrees and fift-en mi
nutes, weft ninetv chains and fixty-five links to
a foiked White Oak Tree, maiked with the let
ters R and B anoihif of the laid Shippen's cor
ne>s (third) thence nonh eighty degrees, east one
hundred and fortv-five chains, to a pr.il on tbe
foJtherly fid ol Paqtiaoftv- w iver, bring also a
corner ot John Reading's land (fouuh) thence
north thtrtvvnine degrees w ft, one hum red
and thirty-two chams to the place of beginning,
containing nine hundred and thirty acres with
'he usual a lowiince for roads and high wa\s—
The 'ame Picmifesaie within nulesof ihe
R ver D l.'Ware, snd there is ther«<in a conveni
ent Grift Mill with (wo pa>r «>f Scones—a Saw
Mill «n good repair, with a fufificicot ftrcarn of
wairr for their use—a Dweil ng House, Store
House, and fevral fma'l hu'ld rips.
MARK THO MP>OIC, Sheriff.
Daled a id day 4)f 1793
Stock Brokers Office,
So. 16, Wdll-ftrcet, New-Yok k.
SuMcrjber intending 10 confine himftlf
JL entirely to the Pt'RC HA St 3c SAI K of
STOCKS on COMMlSSlON,btgslcave 1001.
fer his iervices to his friends and others, in the
lineofa Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with • hrir buiinefVj may depend
upon having it tranfa&ed with the utmost fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boflon, or any
othei part of the United St ate*, will be ft ri fitly
attended tQ.
feM' LFO>?ARD BLFFCKFR.
GENERAL PO S T-O FFI CE,
Philadelphia, May 27, 1 793.
500 Dollars Reward.
WrfEREAS a certain THOMAS SLOiS
GANTT, has lately made hi* escape
from Baltimore County Gaol, to which he was
committed under a charge of having robbed the
Eaftept Mail, on the 48th day of January fact :
Notice ts nereby g'vert* that a reward of five
hundred dollars will he paid at this Office, to
any pci son or peifons who shall apprehend the
fa<d Chimas Sfof > Gantt, and deliver him into the
cultodv <>» the k eoer of the said GaoL or into
tht: ciiitniy of either of the M?" (ha s within the
United S- »'f*s, so ihit the said Thomas S/ofi Gantt
wi»v efte£f.uai' v secured. »nd lonh coming to
aufwer the dbovs- mohf'ion-d '-ha'ge.
riviOTHY PICKERING,
PoJl-M<tJtcr General.
The following is a deferiouon of the above
iia*ined Thomas Sloss Gantt: Hi- is about
UK fee' llt.iir od «ato! 1 mad<*, has co
•biired nan, tied behind, fair complexion and
h*s a dc*ra look when spoken to.
*'i<
INSURANCE COMPANY.
Phi LAD EL PHI A, July ift, 1793
vTOTtCF. it hcrcbv given to the members of
itx- oi North Amcri-
I a, that tfw D"etfors have decided a dividend
(to thi* da\) of l»x per cent 00 ih«-amount of the
fiift mifalmeni, and of one per fnt per month,
\1 j the Tumi paid towards the second and 'jnrd
inllaiinriMs, ralrttlating horn tUe fuft d*y of
the month following 'hat in whirh tfoefe pay
ments were made. The D'vdet.d will he paid
t»i t<»e Stockholders or iheir Repicfcn'*?'v e*, at
the Cr) nr, P* ,, v'* Office, (No. 11.9, f"uih F'Oiu-
Street) at any time after 7'h infl.
EBLNKZER h'AZARP, Sec'rv.
As the mewbtri of this (e nrpanx are much
difperf'd tkrov*kout the United s tJtes, the Fruiters
ir. the ftveralfiatei axje reqtejied to give the above a
place in their neu'Jpapc} s.
RULES
To he observed in Irani 6fii'* Bnhnefs with the
Insurance Company
OF NOR TH-A MLR ft A
ift. A LL orders for Infurirtice must begven
Ix. in wming, finned by the applicant ;
and ?s ai«nutc a dMcription of the vilP:l is ex
pe&cd, as ihe pcrfon ordering the irifuiance can
give, iefpe6fing her age, built, how found and
titled, and whether double or fmgle decked.
ad. All policies will be ready lor delivery in
twcniy-four hours after the order Jot insurance
i v a cepted at ihe officc, and the policy mull be
1 dk< i» np in ten days.
3d. No'ttj wrhan approved endorfcr, for all
premiums., mull he given in ten days, payable
as follows :
For American and Weft-India rifques, in
three onths after the date of ihe policy.
For tnropean nfqu's, in fix monrhs.
F r lud a and £hma nfquis, in 12 months.
Pot nfqncs \>\ the year, 111 eight months.
For rrfqucs for fix months, in fonr months.
And 'or nfqttes for any letter time, in three
inon hs.
4th. Lofles will be paid in ten days after proof
and adjuffment ; but if the noie given for the
premium (ball not have become due with'n that
tim*, the amount of it shall, never theiefs, be de
duced from the loss to be paid.
The Insurance Company of North-America
hereby give notice to all whom it m,»y concern,
thai, agreeably to the above rules, they art ready
10 receive all orders for insurance, which tnay
be addrcllVd to ihem, accompanied with direc
tions to some refpoofir>le house »n Philadelphia
for ihe payment of the premiums within the
time limited.
In caf the rifques offered fhaj! be approved,
the insurance (hall b immediately ess £Ud ;
other wile notice (hall be given, eithei by anlwer
ro the person applying, or to his agent, in Phila
delphia, as may be ordered.
By order of the D' r eftors,
EBENEZEK HAZARD, SecVy.
July 3. 4 w
Albany Glafs-Houfe.
The Proprietors of the nufactory, under
M'CLAJLLEN, M'GREGOR and Co.
BEG leave 10 iriform the oublu:, thai ifyey have
now brought their WI NDOW-GLASS to
luch pei feftion, swill be found, on companfon,
to be equal, in quality, to the betl Loudon
Crown Giafs.
fixed their piierj at a lower rate than
imported G ass, they arc induced to believe, that
importaiionsof this article will be dtfeontinued,
in proportion as their wotks ate ex ended.—
They proppfe 10 enlarge the fcalc of this buli
nef.<, and as the furc,e!s of it will depend on t-ht
patriotic support of the publit* they beg lr«jve 10
solicit their friendly patronage in the pursuit of
a hianch which \*ill interest e<.eiy iover of
A«mekican Manufactures.
All order* tor Wi njjow Glass, of any fire,
will be rcceiv-ed at the Stme of Rhodes and
MacGrecoji, No. £34, Queen.ftrte., New.
York, and at the C 1 ass \Va r choufr, No. 48,
Ma'ke'-ftreei, A'oany, which w»U be pun&uajly
attended to.
(£3** WANTED, fix smart a&ive LADS, not
exceed ing 1.6 vea/s oi age, to be indented as
Apprentices, and regularly in the
various branches of GLU-M«king.
Also, three Window-Glals Maker , to whom
great encouragement will bi given,
Mar 1, i 793
UNIVERSITY »_/"PENNSYLVANIA
July 12, 1793
THE vacation for the Plnlofophical CIjIL-i
commeocfj on Monday the ;sih instant,
and 's to continue fix weeks ; and tor the tif
ferent Ichools, belonging to the Inft- ution. on
Monday the 29th intlau', to cotithiixcjmr weeks.
The C.orplhtiicemtnt lor confeiTi nj> Degrees
on the Students o< the Spnipr who have
b en 9 j read y examined be fate the f<.cnk* and
and approved of bv thtm, will be Jield
011 the gd of September next.
As the Philosophical Profrlforj will beg*n
their courses of Jcthjfes about the jft of Sep
tember, to the ClaflT's under iltfir cart', enjd as it
is ulual for Students Irom <i 4,1 nr parts, *ho
wish to finifti their education 111 the Univtrfiry,
to errttr one or other of ihcfe ( lasses, accQfr.ing
to their proficiency in Literature, it is rtconi
rnended to such Students to make their applica
tions for ad million at that rime.
The Ledures of the Provost !or the ben.fit of
the S Ductus, will as usual, on the
fi:fto! NQvrmber, when the Lectures of the
Medical proleffars commence.
by order of the F,jrultv,
P L
OF THE
City of Washington,
Sp!d by the Booseellesis,
DOHSnx ( A UFA'. U)U\'G. & CRUKSHANK.
tickets
In lilt FEDERAL t ITy LOTTERY,
May be bad at SAMUEL COOPER'* ferry,
fptyw
Wm. ROGERS; S-c'ry.
N S
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE F.oitor propojts to cantin»e the
publication oj the Gazltte or thi Vnit|p
•, Jor a>jlant ctrc* at tot, sf'er the JiyJl of
December next, on the fohtwr-g lent', i *z.
It Jhull be pubhjtied on Wednesdays and
Saturdays, on paper oj the Medium'ji
f s i ar & er than the bffat.
The price, Three Dollar* per annum, rxelufive
of pottage
Su&fcrtptioMS to Me received by the rcffeßive fcJL
tApJle/s fhroyg'-avt the Union. o> fycU ot'tr /e.ijups
ui ma) fee proper iocolleß them.
The papers to be jor warded bs ftq/l truice a veek %
A 0 backets to contain less than si x papers- nvd to
fuhjeriprions to he received ft* a lejs term tki- ft*
months.-—Varments to h fix WQj.ihi m
advance.— Tice>it\ per cmt. dedußivr from the prue
' f the Gazette, «•/•'/ be a! i owed to thyjs uno cut*
iefl and forward the fubfeription move'. frer ex.
penje % in Jul! oj uncharges Jor then trouble in the
bujineju
ihe public at ion will contain as ufujl, a vafietv oj
original effays—foreign and doni jhc intelligence
and a fum-iary of f>e procced'vgs of the Legjflatute
oj the Union, &c. &c. Attention xnilt be paid
to dijpatching the pipers with punfluaftty, and bub.
jcrit>erj may depend on receiving than aj regularly t
as the poJ!> arrive.
June 8.
City of Washington.
January 71b, 1793.
A NUMBER of Loij. in thit. City will be of
fered for sale at au&'on, by the Commif
fi<»«tct», on the 1 7th rljy of September next.
One fourth pari of the purchase money is co he
paid down, the refidueat three equal annual pay
ments with yearly intcrefton the whole princi
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk to tfo Cem'rs.
Extra# of an AS of the General Afftmhly ps
Maryland, concerning the Territoiy ot Co-
and the City of Wafhingion.
•• B'- ir en a fledl, That any foreigner may by
deed or will, hereafter to le made, take and hold tanas
within that part of the jaid Territory whtrhhes with
in this State, it> the fame mavver as if he was a citu
zen of this State ; and the fane lands ma\ be con
veyed by him, and transmitted to and be inheritedly
his heirs or relations, as if he and they were citizens
of thu State : Provided, That no foreigner Jhah',
in virtue hereof be entitled to any further or other
privilege of a citizen."
fan. 19. tf
MR SALE, BY
M A T H E YV CAREY,
At his Store, No. 118. Maiket.fire.ft,
Philadelphia,
THE AMERICAN MUSEUM, from its
commencement >n January, 1767, to its
termination in D cember, 1792, in twelve yo
lumcs, price, neatly bound and lettered* uinc
teen dollars and one fifth.
The opinion of tht President of the United
States, refpe&ing this w«>rk, is a® lollows :
" I believe rhe American Mufeurn h*s met
with rxterfive. \ may with umverfat a.p
pr«b»ti?A-from conrptuiit judges'; for I am of
opinion, that t he work is not only eminently
calculated to disseminate political, a&ricukuial,
philosophical,and otb r valuable information ;
but that it been ttU/orw/y conduced wjth tafc %
attention, qn4propriety, li to these important
obje£fs be fupuadded the more immediate de
ficit of rescuing public documents from obli
vion— I will venture to pronounce, as my sen
timent, that a .more usetul iitiaar^
PLAN HAS N£V|LR J} EE N UNDERTAKER 1
am erica, or one More pe&e.ryi aig of yup r
Lie ENCOURAGEMENT.*'
J u " e 5-
"" > —" • ■ I--' '■
Hercule De Sercey,
From Leogane, Jfland of St. Domingo,
MAKES arid fells Ml so ts of Mugs, Jacks,
Porringers, Cups, Stew-Pans, Lamps, See.
in Tin, plain or j*panned—He alSo mends old
tin work, fa he works cheap, he hopes for the
public encouragement.
No. 23. Race-street, near proni-ftreet.
June 9.2.
HERCULE DE SERCEY,
DE Leogane, I fie Ac St. Dominque, travailje
en fer Blanc, dcioote forte de manieres a
com ma ode et a bon marchr.
A Philadelphie, cc 27 Juin, '793-
No. 23, Race-street, pres Fioot-ftreet.
Gold, Coins qf France and
Spain t arjd Dominions oj
Spain.
Grains. Cents.
1 3
» 7
3 >1
4 .4
5 18
6 B2
» * 5
8 29
9 33
10 36
»t 40
«* 44
"3 47
1 4 5'
'5 55
16 58
17 ba
18 66
19 69
to 73
st 76
«2 80
*3 84
24 87
*** TABLES for receiving and pflyirrf Gold
Cuvs. calculated £y the Officers oj the Rank of ike
United States, agreeable to the new
which the Grain 1 ables above are extraElec^ —max be
had at Benjamin Johnson's. Ki&hjiretfi vczf
fourih-Jlreet.
Gold ( fins of Great Bri
tain and Portugal.
Grains. Cents.
1 3
2 7
3 11
:t
6 23
7 »«
8 ag
9 39
>° 37
n 40
12 44
»3 4?
14 .51
16 59
n 63
18 £7
>9 70
20 74
21 78
22 8l
2 3 8.5
24 89