A HAT SON At PAPtR, KUBLIS«EDWBONEBI*i'TS AN"D SATCTD/iYS
[No. 90 of Vol. IV.]
CONTINUATION O F
An ACT for enrolling apt! Hceuftng
ftlps ar vefl'els to be employed in
the coaftuig trade an<l fisheries,
and For regulating the Tame.
AND 1»c it further enacted, That the ir.af
ter or commander of every fhipor veuel,
licenced far carrying an the coailiog
and beiug destined from any diflrift ot the
United States, toa diftriit otherthan a dirtriCt
in the fame, or an adjoining State, on the lea
coall, or on a navigable river, (hall, previous
to her depart ure, deii«er to the coUeftor rea
ding at the port where fucJi (hip or vellel may
be, if there it one, otherwise to the collector
cf the diftrift comp'eliending such port, or to
a Purveyor within the diftrift, as the one or
the other tuav reside nearest to the port at
which such iliip or vefTel may be, duplicate
Jnanifefts of the whple cargo on boaid lucli
fcip or vefTel, or if there be no cargo onboard,
lie ihall so certify, and if there be any distilled
spirits, or goods, wares and merchandize, ot
foreign growth or manufa&ure on board,
other than what may, by the collector, be
deemed i'ufficiept for sea ftbres» ha fliall
Ty m racrrmanltetf?, the marks and mimoers
of every caflc, bay, hox, chest or package,
cmtaining the fame, with the name, and
place of residence, of every fliipper and con
signee of such distilled spirits, or goods of fo
reign growth or manufacture, and the quan
tity Ihipped by> and to each, to be by him sub
scribed, and to the truth of which, he ihall
swear or aißrm ; and ihall also lwear or af
firm before the Aid collector or surveyor, that
such eo.ods, wares or merchandize, of foreign
growth or manufacture, were, to the best of
his kn'iwlcdiie and belief, legally imported,
and the duties thereupon, paid or secured ;
or if spirits distilled within the United States ,
that the duties thereupon, have been du y
paid or fecored ; upon the performance o
which, arid not before, the said or
surveyor IhalV certify e on the said
op—'Winch he ftiall return to
&tcTrra<ter7w»th a peruut thereto annexed,
authorizing'him to proceed to the port of his
destination. And if any such ship or yeffel
ihall depart from the port where ihe may
♦hen be, having distilled spirits orgoods, wares
or merchandize, of foreign growth or mtinji-.
fafftjTtr on fcoi'd, without the (Cveral things
herein required, being complied with, the
matter thereof Ihall forfeit one hundred dol
lars ; or if the lading be of goods, the growth
or manufacture of the United States only, or
if nigh (hip or velTel have no cargo, and &e
depart, without the several things herein re
quired, being complied with, the fa id matter
Ihall forfeit and pay fifty dollars.
And]>e it further enatted, That mas
ter or commander of every ihip or vefle), li
cenced to carry on the coauing trade, arriv
ing at anv diftiift of the United States, from
any diftri<st, other than a diftrift in the fame,,
or an adjoining State an the sea-coast, or on
& navigable river, ihall deliver to the collec*
tor rejiding at the port where Ihe may arrive,
if there be one, otherwise to the collector
surveyor in the diftritf comprehending such
port, as the pre, or the other, may reside
nearest thereto, if the col left or or surveyor
reside at a distance not exceeding five miles,
within twenty-four hours, or if at a greater
distance, within forty-eight hour®, next after
his arrival ; and previous to the unlading
any of the gpodsbrought in such ship or velfe!,
the man Heft of the cargo (if there be any) cer
tified by the collector or surveyor of the ctjf
trift from whence Ihe last failed, Ihall
make oath or affirmation, before the said col
lector or surveyor, that there was not, when
tie failed from the diftrift where his roaoifeft
was certified, or has been fmce, or then is,
any more, or other goods, wares or merchan
dize of foreign growth or maunfaCfcure, or dis
tilled spirits (if there be any, other than fea
ftores, on ty?a r d such YcflTe') than is therein
mentioned ; and if there be no such floods, he
fijall so swear or affirm ; and if there be no
cargo on hoaid, lie ihall produce the certifi
cate of the colie&or or surveyor of the dii
triefc from Whence (he last failed, as nforefaid,
that such is the cafe : Whereupon such col
lector or surveyor shall grant a permit for
unlading the whole, or part of such cargo ( f
there be any) within his diftri&, as the matter
may request j and where a part only of the
food*, wares and merchandize* of foreign
growth or manufacture, or of distilled spirits*
brought in such ship or velTel, is iutended to
t>e landed, the said collector or surVeyor (ball
make an endoi foment of such pa Tt * the
back of the inanjfeft, fpefifying the articles
to be landed ; and fhail return such manifeft
to the matter, endoriing also thereon, his p<*r
million for fuc'n ship or vefTel, to proceed to
the place of her deft rrat ion ; audit the mil
ter of fpch ship or vessel fhali negle&pr retnfe
to deliver the manifeft (or if Ihe ha r » 110 cargo,
the certificate) within the time here.n direct
ed, h* (hall forfeit one hundred dollars, and
the goods and merchandize of foieigu
growth or manufa&ure, or distilled spirits,
found on board, or landed from such iLip or
W EDNESDAY,
vessel, not being certified, «s k Jierem re
quired, ih»JI be forfeited, avid -i tuefsme„
(hall amount tn the value ot eight hundred
dollars, l'uich (hipnf vefel, with her tatk.e,
apparofand furniture, lhall be also forfeited.
And be it further enaifted, That nothing
!n tikis ast contained lhall he lb construed, as
to oblige the matter or. commander ot any
fliiu or velTel, licenced for catrytag on the
coasting trade, baoud from a dili' '"? ne
State, to adiftiict rn the fame, or an :ioj»n•
ing State on the sea-toast, or on a n»Vrfjn Ie
river, having on board goods, wares or m*r
chaudize, of the growth, product or mai ' u ' ;|"
tiwe of the United States only (except diltH
ed fpirit'.) or diMt'ed fpirta, sot wore th»i
five hundred gallons, wine ia eaflcsTtot i«<*e
than two hundred and fifty gaUfcns, or 111 °
ties not more than one hunored dozen-',
in calks or boxes not more than three thoo
fatid pounds tea in cheftsor boxes, not «u»i*
than five hundred pounds, cotfee in ci>l.vs or
bags wot more than one thoufavd pounds, of
foreign merchandize in package*^'
of not more value than tour hundred
or goods, wares or merehamwze, cmWnwig.
of such enumerated or other articles ot io
rc*e« grewtfc er menufafture, or et both,
whole aggregate value lhall be not more thai)
eight bundled dollars, to deliver a maniteft
thereof, or obtain a permit, previous to her
departure, or on her arrival withiu inch dif
trift, to make any report thereof ; but such
matter (hall be provided with a niamieH', by
him fubferibed, of* tbe lading, ol what kind
soever, which was on board such fh p or ves
sel, at the time of his departure from the
diftrift from which she last failed, and if the
fame, or any part of such lading, consists of
cfcftilled spirits, or goods, or merchan
dize, of foreign growth or manufacture, with
the marks and numbers of eacn calk, bag,
box, chest or package, containing the
witk the name of the fbipper and consignee of
each ; which mar.ifeft fhaii be by him exhi
bited, for the infpe<stion of any officer of the
revenue, when, by such officer, thereunto re
quired ; and fhaJl alio infbim such ©ificer,
from whence such ship or veflellalt failed, and
how long she ha? been in port, when by hitn
so interrogated. And if the master at such
ship or veifel shall not be provided, on his ar
rival within any such diftii£fc*3vith a manifeit,
arid exhibit the fame, a s is herein
the lading of such ship or v'eflel confiffc wholly
of goods the produce or manufacture of the
United States (distilled spirits excepted) he
(Hall forfeit twewty dollars, or if the-« be dif- |
tilled spirits, or goods, wares, or merchandize,
of foreign growth or manufacture, onboard,
excepting what may be fufficient for fe2-
stores, he (hall forfeit forty dollars ; or if he
(hall refute to answer the interrogatories tru
ly, as herein required, he (hall forfeit the
sum of one hundred dollars. And if any of
the goods laden on board such ship or vessel,
(hall be of foreign growth or manufacture, or
ol spirits difiiUed within the United States,
so much of the fame, as may be found on
j board such ship or vefTel, and which shall not
I be included in the manifeft exhibited by such
niafter, (hall be forfeited.
Aivd be it further enacted, That it shall,
and may be lawful for the collector erf the
ciiftrift of Pennsylvania, to grant permits for
the traafportation of goods, wares or m«r
chandize, of foreign growth or manufacture,
across the State ofNew-Jerfey to the diftrift,
of New-York, or acrofsthe State of pelaware,
to any diftritt in the State of Maryland or
Virginia ; and for the collcftor of the diftrift
of New-York, to grant like permit? for the
transportation across the State of New-Jer
sey ; and for the collector of any diftridt of
>laryland or Virginia, to giantlike permits
for tbe transportation across the State of De
laware, ta the diftrift of Pennsylvania : Pto
vided, that every permit lhall express the
name of the owner, or per lon fending luch
goods, add of the person or to whom
such goods (hail be consigned, with the marks,
numbers and description of the packages,
whether bale, box, chest or otherwise, and
the kind of goods contained therein, and the
date, when granted ; and tbe owner, or per
son fending luch goods, shall swear or affirm,
that they were legally imported, and the du
ties thereupon paid or secured : And provided
also, That the owner or configr.ee of aH such
goods, wares and merchandize, shall, within
twenty-four hoi rs after the arrival thereof,
at tbe place to which they were permitted to
be trnnfported, report the fame, to the col
lector of the distriCt where they shall so ar
rive, and lhall deliver up the permit accom-l
panying the fame, and if tbe owner or Con-i
fignee aforefaid, shall negletft or refufe to
make due entry of luch goods, within th®
time, ami in tle manner, herein directed, ail
such goods, wares and merchandize shall be
i abject to forfeiture ; and if the permit grant
ed iha'l n«>r I** giren np, within the time lim
ited for making the laid report, the person
or perfoni to whom it was granted, negle<ft
ing or refufing to deliver it up, shall fo*feit
forty dollars for every twenty-four hours it
shall be withheld afterwards : Provided, that
wheie iko goads, wares »fcd merciiandrac, to
357
lon A' FEN NO, No. 34, NOPrH FIfTH-STREET, PHILAUtLPHIA
,pSlit, io, <795.
'X
, *h x#knffarte& io ina/ifirr aforefand, ftaM be
thwi JWtars, 1 Us*
Wraith *» f * P*«'BU I toiv j»otl>e de<*M«rf »te
yelTary, am flwll the owier or cofiftgnee bi
obliged to itiake Report to tl* coVleftor of tlifc
dilttift w-nere the saW goods, wares artd mer
'thJidiae fliall arrive.
And be it farther enacted, That when any
Ihip or veflel of the United States rcgrfteTed
according to law, Avail be employed i n goinfc
from any one <|iftri<ft in the United State-., t6
anv other diAriA, foch Qup or vessel, and the
matter of commander thereof, with the goods
'(he may have on boaid, previous <o her de
parture from the diftiia, where (he may ba,
and alio, upon her arrival in any oiker riiltrift.
fliall be I'ubjvcl (except as to the payment of
fee*) to the lame regulations, provisions, pe
nalties and forfeitures, and the like duties are
mooted on like officer;, as is provided by the
fifteenth and seventeenth fc&ions oi "this
ast, for lliips or veflels licenaed for carrying
on the coasting wade : Provided however,
tnat nothing herein cunt a Hied, ihail be con
ltrued to extend to regifteied lhips or veliels
of the United Stares, having on board goods,
waiesand mefcfcand'ze of foreign grdwth or
mwrfafture, brought into-lshe U.iiud States
» fW> Ihip or vessel from a foreign port, and
O) Wrticii the duties have not been paid or ie-
Wred, according to law.
(To be concluded rn our next.)
Foreign Intelligence,
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Saturday, January 19.
A LETTER was received from
Manuel, complaining of the
condadi e-f the Convention, from
whom, he (aid, a diforderfy band,
by the Pole talent ofmakiHg anoife,
took away all power of doing good.
By your conduct, continued he, you
have expo fed FrAnfe, and tuch as
,you are (the truth eTcapes me) yes,
I'ucfe as yeu are, yon cannot save it.
He concluded with giving in his re
signation, as having it no longer irt
; U.is power to be trfeful at his port.
He henceforth proposes by his writ
ings and examples, to devote hitn
felf to the education of children, as
the Resolution wants nothing but
| men.
On the qiieftien* " Shall there, or
Jhall t-hire not, be a delay rn the
ntecution of the King ?
tondorcet —>" Let us prove to the
whole world that we ar« nt>t barba
rians ; ami that, if we wi/h fx>r the
death of the tyrant, we wish alfofor
the happirtefs of mankind. Let u»
lit ike the ci-devant king, but let us
abolish the punilhment of death for
all privaie crimes, and refei ve it
only for treason, Let us hasten to
revise our system of taxation, to es
tablish beneficent laws, to fh r hl a
fvflem of public inftruJtiflii, and t-»
meliorate the management of our
lrofpitals. We may thenanfwer \y
ranis, if they reproach us with the
death of Louis j and we may reft
atliired that with suCh difyofi'ion*
he n»ay then be executed without
danger in 24 hours."
Briflbt— '* Such has been the in
fluence of the French Revolution,
that at London, Vienna, Berlin,and
every where, great deference is
paid to the public opinion. It is
consulted, it is feared, and
are made to corrupt it. The pub
lic opinion of E««<p« is of more iin
pqrtance to us than armies. In this
state of things, the immediate exe
cution of Louis inuft be very unfa
vorable to os. There are in Europe
ty-a clalTes of men. Tbefii lt, con
. filling of Pliilofophers and friends
of liberty, will not fee the necciiity
for ihe death of Louis, and will
think that a jjreat nation ought ta
disdain fangtunary vengeance. Th«
other, composed of theflavesof pre
judice, will consider thepunifhuient
of a king as the gveatefl of crimes
and both will unite to condemn
os. On these considerations I vote
for a respite rill the conftrtution
(hall he ratified, lfyon porfneafto
ther coutfe yon muit declare vsf
-J&
1 V V
V< / -
| Whole No. 41 2.)
t . , . , i • kj ,- ' .1! ■» I' h it.'M'«L
against England,- Spain,. and Bo!-
Give an t*aiti(>lc r/f made
ration, atid a revolution will be hc
compTifhed rtifOughoutarll Europe."
Legendrt— 1 ' Th* hour of jrfttice
is now come—t'foe Ijetfd i>t
mull fall on rlie fcsffoid. I an> a
gainlt ail respire."
Thomas Paine appeared at the
tribune, and as he was unacquainted
with the French language, Bancal
read a translation of his opinion,die
substance of Which is as follows :
" 1 prefer an error occafit>ned by
humanity, to an error occasioned
hy severity. To\i lia*e no other al
ly than the United States of Aflie
rica. Louis js the best friend of
shefe people, who confide:- ihejn
. fel-ves as indebted tQ him for thfrir
liberty. Were I acquainted with
the French language, 1 lhoold ap
pear at y<tiir fetr, and present to
ye« in the name of mjr American
brethren, a petition for a rfefyitc.
The news of this execution will
give great pain td tbefe fans of free
dom.
" Dw wot (e*clai*jc<t fce)
thai* fertility : ttw n*r expftfetfetm
to ptaefis )MiiMn# (bwirtirtu*. Let
the voic* a* lei# of you# ineerfcft
be Thrc wood tor cdttfttltt*-
ing y<*ur feipi of war cawlot be
found i» the north of Em •j>e i A4j»»it
to declare war against yon. North
America ahwic can Ripply you with
this wood—will you deprivtS yonr«
felve* of filth a resource ? fcouis
would not have been a bad man bad
he been fnrroundfd Hy virtuous ci
tizens. He owes his present misfor
tunes to the Constituent Aflemblv,
who, witbaut con-fulling the French
nation, which Ihauld abone have
pVanoiiticed o'ti fUcft Sri occtirrence >v
had the temerity and folly to place
on his head, the crown he had jiilt
abdicated.
" I demand then, thar Louis ibay
be bamflied with at! hrs fatiirly to
the American Wares."
Lelva-i dy—'• 1 am only a fegifla
tor, not a judge—l« what lt£ht ean
yoit be canfidered as judges It can
not be for yoiir impartiality, for
there are more than fixfy of you,
who by your writings have not dn
ly condemned Louis so death, but
alfs b«afted, that if the sword of
juftiee did not ftrik-e his gtiilry Viedd,
you would aflirifinate
teaches us that thedeathof a tyrant
does not always deltroy tjrrsiivny,
but fbmet'ubeS prodiices a greater
number of tyrants; 1 vote then that
he may live, remain among us
till ihe people have accepted the
new constitution-"
Barrere, the last member who
was heard, delivered a long fueech
with great warmth, and concluded
with voting against the delay.
Monuay, Jan. 21.
Dronet —" I have rece«v#d a let
ter threatening me with cleltructi
on."
Breard—" Though I am not fond
of egotism, I think it my duty to in
form the Convention of a Fait which
concerns myfelf perfcuially. f was
yesterday flopped by an illdrefled
man, whole air announced that he
did not belong 10 that class whose
dress he wore. He told me, tbm as
1 had voted for the death of (he
King, I should peri/h by no other
hand than his. I looked (ledfaftly
at him,upon which he retired. Thi*
event proves that our lives are in
danger. 1 reqneft (hat the Conven
tion will immediately trfke charge of
the police of a city filled with «il
lains, and order a fearchto be made
in the honfes of Individuals, tfiac
th<fir lurking-places may if poflible
be dlfcovered."
Petiott—" In deploring ihe death
of one of our colleagues, let osiake
5$
•r
I
I
* •
\ ,
. I
r*
i
/
>1
' "\rare, citizens, that our indignation
be hot lott to the public. Whoever
reflects upon what pafles, has rea
son to laineut how many persons
suspect and detelt, who, if they were
acquainted, would mutually esteem
each other. Here men, the mod
oppolite, equally wilh well to free
dom j however, they mutually re
gard one another with an air of sus
picion. [A Member here called
out, in a time like the present, the
feeble ought to be silent, and leave
to the more courageous to speak.]
1 do not believe, continued Petion,
that this discourse is addreii'ed to
me. [Several voices called—it is.]
It is not, relumed Pet ion, an alli
ance between the friends of liberty
and thofeoftyranny which 1 lie/ire ;
the alliance is impossible ; 1 demand
freedom of opinion, tranquility and
confidence ; I demand that there be
no denunciation without proof. If
there is any man in this Aflembly,
who can advance againlt me any
thing, at which a man of honor
ought to bluih, let hint advance—l
dare him to the aflertion."
Talien—" You are reproached
■with having insulted Pelletier in
your printed opinion."
Thuiiat—" Qn the second of Sep
tember, the Legillative Aflembly
feirt a deputation of twelve mem
bers, of whom I was one, to the
Mayor of Paris : we remained till
■two •'clock in the morning, without
Petion informing us one word of
wbat was passing.'' -
Collot d'Herbois—" I reproach
yoti, Petion, with having calumni
ated in a printed opinion, the Elec
toral Aflembly of Paris ; of having
printed a thousand faMhoods, in
which J would have detetfied you,
if I had not b«en absent upon acom
tniffion. You are a vile slanderer."
Petion—" I am fatisfied that the
system of calumny levelled agsinft
me discloses itfelf in a manner equal
ly open and (candalous. I have not
ft>r feyeral days mounted the tri
bune. For a whole week, he who
has perhaps done some services to
the city of Paris is threatened with
losing his head. 1 declare for the
iirft and last time, that I have often
exposed tnyfelf for the public, and
that I wijl do it still. Astothefaft
citcd by Tburiot, I am aftoniflied
that he did not mention all the cir
cumstances before the deputation
reached my house; the mifchief
was irreparable and already known
to all the world. The fatft quoted
by Collot is equally incorrect. I
have not printed vague calumnies,
my opinions still remain. Collot
may attack them. There are still
other accusations to be made against
roe ; 1 know that two members of
this Aflembly have been fufficiently
abandoned to spread a horrid re
port ; I expect irom them a denun
ciation without fear, Returning to
the still more important difcullion,
in which we are engaged, I vote a
gainst visiting private houses, calcu
lated to terrify the inhabitants of a
city already deserted."
PROCLAMATION
Of theProvifional Executive Council,
January 20, 1793, Second Year of
the Republic.
The ProvifionalExecutive Council
deliberating on the mealures to be
taken for the execution of the de
crees of the National Convention of
the ijth, 17th, 19th and 20th of Ja
nuary, j 793, enacts the following
regulations :
irt. Theexecution of the sentence
©f Louis Capet, fliall take place to
morrow (the 21 ft of January.)
2d. The place of execution, fliall
be L a Place de la Revolution, ci-de
vant Louis XV. between the Pedcf
tal and the Champs Elifees.
3d. Louis Capet fliall set out from
the Temple at 8 o'clock in the morn
ing, so that the execution (hall take
place at noon, - —* —
4th. The Commjlfioners of the
Department of Paris, the Commif
lionecs of the Municipality, and
members of the criminal tribunal,
jhall assist at the execmion, the Se
cretary Regifler fliall draw up the
minutes, and she said Comniiflionei s
and members of the tribunal, as Coon
as the execution is over, (hall come
to give an account to the Council,
wbo" fliall continue in a state of per
nianent fitting, during tlie whole
day.
By the Provisional Executive Council,
ROLASD, CLAVIERE, MOUSE,
LE BRUN, GARAT, PACHE.
The Proclamation of the Provisi
onal Executive Council, relativi to
his execution, bad hardly been no
tified to Louis before he requeued
perniiffion to confer with his family.
The commiSsioners testifying tlcir
embarraftinent at this requett, jro
pofed to hiin that his family lhould
be brought into his apartment, to
which he agreed. His wife, hiifif
ter, and his children accordingly
came to bim and they conferred
together in the room in which fie
was accudomed to dine. This in
terview laded two hours and An
half; their conversation was tery
earned.
We may conceive what must haTe
been the nature of .the scene—but
a narrative of it is impoflible, for we
do not take rhe Commil{ionei;s { of
the Commune to be very faitbfol or
very feeling historians. Rumour,
however fays, that the Queen had
been for lome days ip a (late of dif
fraction—that at times her mind
was totally absent, and fliewastobe
roused from lethargy to a sense of
her sorrows. All that we can fay
upon this authority is, that the King,
after this interview, waited for. his
fuinmons without the least symp
tom of dismay.
The King wiflied to cut off Hs
hair; fciflars were refufed him—
they took away his knife.—" Fools!
(said he) to think I would bafelf
turn my hand againft'my own life !
His famijy asked, whether the'
might not fee him again in the
morning? to this he made no an
swer, and Madam Elizabeth saw liin
no more. Louis cried out of hit
chamber, " Oh the murderers ! th<
murderers !"
Addreffingherfelf to their fon,An>
toineite fa id—" Learn by the uilf
fortunes of yonr father, not to »
venge his death
The Princess, whose critical age,
joined with her fuffei ings, had bi o'l
her into the inoft pitiable state, re
ceived, as we understand from one
of the Paris Journals, the facramert
on the fame day ; and ber life was
despaired of. Our readers will raj*
that we can only give these parti
culars on questionable authority.
Arrived at the fatal fpor, the un
fortunate monarch mounted the
fcaffold alone, tlie Commilfioners,
the Mayor, and even his Confeffor,
remained at the foot of it. He had
on nothing but a white under waift
coar, his neck and bread open, and
his hair rolled up as the Abbes wear
theirs.
As he placed himfelf upon the
Guillotine, he raid, " I commit n>y
foul to God."
LONDON, Jan. 38,
The purport of the commnnicatir.
on fro,m the Spanish Envoy, whiph
ilie French Convention refuted to
hear, before pronouncing sentence
on the late King, was to entreat the
Convention to suspend the judgment
of Louis 5 and to offer,if the Envoy
were allowed time, to fend a couri
er to Madrid, to obtain a promise
from the King of Spain of becoming
a Mediator between France and her
enemies, and to engage them tpdif
arm and acknowledge the Republic,
on condition that the life of the
head of the house of Bourbon should
be saved.
Thomas Paine, it is said, had po
fnive inltru&ions from President
Washington, in America, Co infill
on the fafety of the King's person,
and that if the French would not
permit him to remain in France, to.
fend him there, as they could not
forget the kindness be had fliewp ,
them.
.At Lyons, a few days part, twelve
Priests were beheaded. One of them
made a temporary efc pe, by run
ning into a river ; hut was dragged
out and inftyijtly executed.
Letters from Madrid, of the 7th
inft announce the intelligence, that
20 fliips of the line and ten frigates
are ordered to be got ready, with
all pollibls expedition.
358
Philadelphia, April 10.
The Roebuck Britijh Packet, for Fe
bruary, arrived at New York lafl
Friday—l he litters and papers by
her, were received at the PoJI-Office
Saturday evening. The J allowing is
an yfbjfraii of European Intelligence
ctntained in the Britijh prints, to
the \t,th February.
THE King of Prufiia has fentan army into
Poland in three divisions, which are to form a
cordon—the whole under the command of
General Mollendorf. The object nl" lhi» ar
mament, according to the King's declara
tion, is to prevent the propagation of French
Democracy—for it Teems that clubs and revo
lution focittfes have been eftablilhed theie,
wko make open profelfion of their' principles,
notwithstanding all that the Empress has done
to counteract th«m. The Prufiians entered
Poland about the end of January. The prin
cipality of Monaco, has thrown off its allegi
ance to its Prince, and thrown itfelf on the
protection of France.
Paris account' fay—
" Gen. Bpurnonville is appointed Minister
at War—Of 600 votes, he had 356. Dumou
rier had one only.
It was decreed the 2d, Feb. by the Conven
tion, that bounties and recompences Ihall be
granted to the corsairs who lhall bring into
the ports of the republic, the enemy's vefijels
hiden with provisions, and other ufeful ar
ticles.
The Convention daily exprefles its appre
hension of new aflaflinations. They seem to
entertain no doubt of plots being 011 foot to
revenge the death of their murdered King ;
and the War they now wage, may in this
light be considered as a meafisre of policy,
tending to ensure their own personal (afety.
It has been determined to address the En
glish and Dutch nations.
Citizen Chambon, Mayor of Paris, has re
fignedtbat appointment to the Council Gene
ral, under pretext of bad health.
The National Convention has palled a De
cree to authorize their Generals to execute
all the Decrees of the Convention in tlio'e
countries where their armies are, as well as
in those into which they may hereafter enter.
Paris, who stabbed the Deputy Pelletier,
was taken at Forges; at the moment «fl)is
apprelienlion, he blew out liis brains with a
pistol."
On the 13th of January, the pedple of Rome
maflacred Bafleville, Secretary of Legation l
from the French Republic ; the house of a
French Banker, and the Academy belonging
to the Nation, were burned. On the follow,
ing day, the quarter inhabited by the jews
was attempted to b4 set on fire : they weri
supposed tobc friendly to the French Revo-
iution.
The Convention is determined to execute
a summary vengeance on the inhabitants of
Rome, on account of the above tranfaftions.
The Marine Minister is charged to explore
the Forests of Corsica, and to transport all
the wood he can find to Toulon.
Eight hundred millions of Aflignats are to
be created.
The Minister of Justice has twenty five
millions at his diTpofal, for the purchase of
corn in Foreign Markets.
The Court of Spain has engaged to afiift
Grteat Britain. A French veflel captured a
Dover packet-boat.—The crew of a French
gnn-boat landed on the coast of England, and
pillaged a house, the beginning of February.
The William Penn and George Bar
clay failed from Gravefend on the 1 ith of Fe
bruary. An attack on Jersey and Guernsey
was much feared. English stocks declining at
the date of the last accounts. Several ships
reported to have been captured by the French.
Orders were given for fix frigates to fail from
Plymouth and Portsmouth, to cruize in the
channel for the fafety of homeward bound
fht£>s.
Dumourier, it is thought, will firft attack
Maeftricht. Lord Auckland promised the
afliftance of 12,000 Engliih troops to Holland
within eight days after the requisition. Du
mourier arrived at Antwerp on the 2d of Fe
bruary. The Poles at Warsaw a"e resolved
to oppose the entrance of the P ruffians by
open force.
It is reported that the Prussians on the 24th
of January, in vetted the city of Thorn, and
forced the gates. That Choczim will be Of
fered to the Turks, on condition that they
reject the new French Minister.
On the person of Paris, the affaflin of Pel
letier, who shot himfelf when taken, a paper
was found to the following effect: u Molest
no one, I was alone the fortunate execu
tioner of the villain Pelletier, I had tasked
myfell to a yet nobler action, the rcgicide,
the pat'icide, thp parricide Egalite should
have fallen by my hand Molest no one, the
French are now a nation of savage coward l ; !
I leave them with these lines (in poetry,which
piay be thus tramlated) Ye people, (tamped
with unprecedented crimes, with calmness,
with pleasure I abandon life and you. It is
only with death that I escape the imputation
ot that infamy, which is written in the fore
heads of all Frenchmen with the blood of their
King." This paper is signed Paris the elder,
late guard of the King, murdered bv his people.
An a&iou took place at Aix ta-Chapelle in
January, between the French under General
Bournonviiie, and she Auftrians untfev Gene
ral Clairfajt—the fotmer it is fald loft I2DO
men, and rhe Anftnans 15-).
Tranquility js entirely reiiored at Stock
holm, by the mild meafiires of the Regent.
- - -
> N N i>
T.ie Br.tiß, iJoiift ct Common,
mourning f„ t rtS laf*K. .?°
Orey » f.«| be H* W)ly
not. ' *» md
footed five years imprifoment, the term f 7
which lie wa, confine''., was hrm,,*. .
Conrt by the keeper *f *ZVj "SU"]
b»l for hi s f„u,re good c. A , ,;, d r .t
h,s being difrharged— !mt tl e C,,,* „ 0 , co
ftdering the bail fufficie.it, lie w. s re ! Tl
back to prison. ' s """'"id
By the proceeding, of the National r n „„.
"on, of,he I2d January, « t
tw„ depot es Irora Frankfort wlere kt V,'
berty. The Diplomatic toi,„ ]iim .
repoi ted that the phargv* Hjuinft the ...i .
tuts aOYankfort bad tot bj t
ed, nor the law of nation, violated >>» tw»"
kerfauir, Manuel, DuftJli a*tx and'RoW
" ,the
All the play house? in Pari, were opered ..
usual on the night of that day i„ which L us '
16 was beheaded. "
The report of the diflraftion of t ), e O lie .„
of France isxontradifled by the author*?"
Pans. At the request of the Oueen therom
he r'fo m ° Urni " g ,or fcer «"<
in all the Roman Catholic Chapels in Lo„
the congregations were almqll univeifaily in
deep mourning. '
The London Gazette ofFebruir* ir ~l
tains an order in council for
fliips, property, and fatjeftj of
The French National Convention' h ,w
pafled a decree for augmenting their
to 502,000 men.
Meflxs. Condo'-cet, Paine, and Barbaras
were appointed the committee to <Jiaw
address to the ncnnle t i-'|i '
The Ruffian Mioifter at Coblenti lia- for
ma'lly recognized Monsieuk, the eldcff h'o
tber of the late King, as Regent of F ance.
Great commotions prevail in I, eland
which It is feared will not terminate without
fatal confeqnences. A National Convention
i' the great topic of cocrerfaria'n.
In the Britilh House of Common! a warm
debate took place on the'Jii ft of Febriurv—
in which Mr. Fox reprobated the confede.
racy against France, and the policy of tar
war on the part of Great-Britain.
Some of the Britilh prints (late, that the
sailors had armed themselves, and were de
termined to oppose the press-gangs at the
risk of their lives—other accounts contradict
this.
EwnfcM* w,, born Augnft 23, 1754—he
began h,s reign S , 1?74 , au() rei d
10 years and 3 months, recin...; n£fo tf, f f
August, 1792 —on the 14th of which montii
he was imprisoned.
The French fleet in the Mediterranean,
under M. Trugnet, was dispersed in a violent
storm, ar.d much damaged—the
ihip, of 80 guns, escaped, difinafted, into (he"
bay of Naples—aud two other (hips of tke
line were loft.
A war between Rnffia and the Porte Wcon
fidentially talked of.
General Dumonrier has resolved to plant the
Twe of Liberty in Arafterdam and London this
fprin<» nnd summer.
The bank of Amfterd*m contains three mil*.
Hons fteiling, the exclufjve property of the
Dutch.
The aflignats in France are now at the ex
change of fourteen 3 eighths; or in other terms,
four-pence farthing English will purchase half a .
crown of Frcnch money.
Lloyd, the attorney J flood in the pillory U
the Royal Exchange, for one hour, purfuaht to
his sentence in the Court of King's Bench, for
flicking up inflammatory bill* on the watts of
the Fleet prison.
The Lords Laofdown, Lauderdale and Derby,
have entered a protcft against the war wiib
France.
On the 21ft January the Frcnch fleet, confid
ing of 44 fail, appeared on the coast of Sardi
nia, not far from Cagliari, and endeavored nfioi
debark. The 1 (landers allowed about 1509 '0- 7
land, who, on coming ashore began the air, C*
ira ; these formed the line of battle, and the 1-ft
were about to Follow them, when a great num
ber of the Sardinians descended from the moun
tains, and attacked them. In Jcfs than half an
hour, these 1500 men were killed or madepri
foners. The Iflandersthen pointed their einii
against their ships, and kept up such a quick fire,
as obliged them to retire to a distance fiop
shore.
Lord Hood is appointed to command thr
Biitifh fleet, ordered to the Mediterianeau, and
•Lord Howe to command the channel flet.
The Duke of Clarence is created an Admtr?:,
to serve under Lord Ho#c. The Duke of YotV
is to command the Hanoverian forces defti-nfd
to act with the combined army against France.
Prince Ernest son) to serve under the puke
of York. The Prince of Wales is appointed to
the command of the toth regiment of dragoons.
Five of his Britannic Ma jetty's sons arc now
in the naval and military service.
The armaments go on with great vigour.
In London wheat was $f] per bu file I, and in
the counties 4/11.
A letter from Dublih T dated the 30th januirv,
fays—** The Catholics, lam happy to inform
you, are to be" partakers of our excellent const:-
tution without any exception. On this or u-
Son every liberal heart fcems to be filled wikb
joy."
Col, Joseph Neville ij* ele&ed a Reprefinfa
tive in Cnngre fs tor the Counties of Hampft' rc »
Hardy, &c. Slate of Virginia.—This comply*
the delegation from that State—eighteen n-me*
having been already publifiieH.
A duel was fought the 23d ult. 3t
ville, between Mr. Jennifer and Mr. Oal&*
way, two officers of the arroy-*thc lattw. <pa ' :
kiJled.. .FRANCE. •
NATIONAL CQNVtKTION.
Frimyv Febtuary i
REPORT OF BRISSOI - ON THE CON
DUC f of ENGLAND towards
F R A N C E.
THE Court of England wiflics for War—the
ho>>echeri(hed by thole who regard with horror
a WW between two free nations is now no more
the hottiie views of the Court of London are
at lall difcovercd. A perfidious mask of neu
trality (till covered them. Your republican
lirmneftihas caused that maik to fall off.
GEORGE has debauched the opinion of the
English nation 5 he has disturbed commerce, he
has given orders to parliament; he has menaced
the Oiinifters, and upon this coalition, he now
•declares war against you, becauK he believes the
moment arrived when he may vHth Tafety and
impuDity'employ hrt farces against your liber
ty ; he has declared war againttyou hy ordering
your anibaffador to depart from England within
tight days ; he has declared it by publicly tefti
iying marks of sorrow for the Tate of the confpi
rutor, whom you had jullly condemned to pu
niflmient; he has declared: it by demanding
from parliament, upon the intelligence of his
death, a cenliderable addition of forces by land
and sea. To dil'miL ignorainibufly the agent of
the republic, and to arm, on the intelligence of
the death of the traitor, is it not to fay to Eu
rope, to the universe, France lias condemned
Louisas a traitor, and I believe him innocent,
I lie in France only febeis and Sacrilegious per
sons? France no longer wifnes for a king or
royalty! and ' wifhto avenge the king and roy
alty ?> Rith«r may 'England perilh than behold
the eftablifcment of the French republic i
Such is the barbarous wilh of the King of
Great j ßritain, if he did not immediately and o
penly declare war against you, it was because
his Mtniftry (iid not second with efficient afti-
Vity, his Orders of vengeance, because his forces
■were not-vcr to-deftroy our commerce,
to take from ua our colonies, to ravage our
country. Undoubtedly if the English people had
not allowed themselves to yield to the forcible
ampulfe of the Miniflry, they would have con
sidered the offences, with which we are re
proached, only, as the crimes of individuals;
they wouljl have regarded the punishment of
Xibuis as a great a& of jiiftice; andj convinced
of these truths, would have been of opinion,that
to declare war again & us, becauie we do not
wilh for a king, would be an a& of injustice,
and a violation of the law of nations* and that
we might havecontinued to have been brothers,
though under a different form of government^-
Such, without.doubt, is the sentiment of a
great part of the Engliih, and which would have
already difplayedr jtfelf, if it had not
the terror of bayonets; but the English nation
■once'« enlightened by our exauu>W at
<io juflice dnju^^sT oo «* confplrators in
pi TTTeurce of the eternal Trial of Haf
efhg* will not be renewed, and fcaffolds will
once more be of use for the Staffords and Lauds
of the government, as well a$ for private ruf-
— 1
- Citizens it would not be proper to dissemble
from you the dangers of the new war ; we
have all the tyrants of Europe to combat by
land and sea. All ihe people alone are our al-
lies; but thcfe people are nothing to you, for
they arc in chains, and those chains must firft
be broken. Ail your means then must depend
upon yourfeJVei alone. Your foil, your indu
ilry, your courage, must supply what nature
and circumstances refufe you.
The trader, forgetting his commerce, must
"become a warrior, those who have capitals must
employ their funds to support our affigaats, and
supply the want of money, the proprietor of
land and labourer, renouncing all fpcculation,
must furnifli the means of abundance during
the operations of the war, every citizen, like a
Roman soldier, must march, not only with his
arms, but with provisions for a given time, and
thus you will-defeat the calculations of your
enemies with relpcdt to the emptiness of your
magazines. The great family of Frenchmen
muil conipofe only one army, and all France
must form only one camp, where nothing b t
War is talked'"of—where nothing is pursued
but War. Above all, you must expeSi distress,
Mid prepare yoUrselves for fuffering every fpeci
cs of want ; (hortly indeed, it must be a crime
for a citizen to have a change of clothing, if
(here is one of our brothers who is destitute of
lovering.
To declare that France is at war with Eng
land is like wife to declare war against the Stad
iolder of Holland. The Stadholder, vrho is ra
tfler the fubjedfc than the ally of the court of St.
lanits's, wh® has been, and still is, a passive in
-1 rument in their hands, who, in subservience to
til their inclinations, has in the course of the
'evolution favoured the emigrants and the
Prufllans, harraffed the French, and treated with
nfolcnce the French government. 1 here allude
o the circumstances of releasing the persons
ruilty of forging aflignats, arretted in Holland.
l"he Stadholder arms in the mean time to fup
>ort the war of the Court of joins his
sups to the Englith fleec, favours our enemies
>y putting obstacles in the way of our exporta
- Alter aU these confiilerations, your commit
tee of general defence has chargcd trie to pre
sent to you the plan of the following decree.
DECREE.
" The National Convention, after having
heard the report of their Committee of Cieiie
ral Dcfence, in the c> ndu<3 «f the Engliih go
vernment.
" Conlldcrinp thst the king of Eiiglaudhas
perfiftcd, especially since the revolution of the
iothof Aug. 179 a, to give proofsof his being
evil difpofcd toward* the French nation, and of
hit attachment to the coalition of crowned
heads.
" That at the period aforefaid. he ordered his
amhaflavor at Paris to withdraw, bccaufe he
would not acknowledge the proyiGonal e*eci»-
tive council, created by the afl'eiubly.
" That the Cabinet of S(L James's hadceal'ed,
since the fame period, to coriefpond with the
French ambassador at London, on pretext of the
suspension of the heretofore king of the French.
" That since the opening of the National
Convention, it has it.fufcd to resume the usual
correfpondcnce between the two states, and lo
acknowledge the powers of this convention.
" That it has refufed to acktio jvledge the am
bassador of the French republic, altho' provided
with letters of credit in its name.
" I'hat it has endeavoured to impede the dif
ferent purchasers of corn, arms and other com
modities ordered in England, either by French
citizens or the agents of tile republic.
"That it has caused to be (topped several
boats and ihips loaded with grain f«r France,
contrary to the treaty of 1786, whils exporta
tion to other foreign countries was free. ~.
"That in order still more effectually to.ob
ftru& the commercial operation of the republic
in England.it obtained an a&of parli»ment,pro
hibitingthe circulation of affiguats.
'• That in violation of the 4th article of the
treaty of 1789, it obtained another a<St, ir. the
month of January last, which fubje<Sts all Flench
citizens reltding in or coming into Englani, to
forms tlie most inquisitorial, vexatious and dan
gerous.
" That at the fame time, and contraiy to~rie
lft article of the peace of 1783, it granted pn
te&ion and pecuniary aid not only to the emi
grants, but even to the chiefs of the rebels, win
have already fought against France ; that it hjs
maintained with them a daily correfpondcnu,
directed against the French Revolution; th*
it has also received the chiefs of the rebels of the
French Well-India Colonies;
" That in the fame spirit, without any pro *
vocation, and when all the maratime powersare
at peace with England, the Cabinet of St. James
has otjdered a confidenible naval armament, and
an augmentation of the land forces.
" That this argument was ordered at a mo
ment when the British Minister was bittarly
pcrfccuting those who supported the principles
of the French Revolution iaEnglaud, and has
employing ail poflible means, both in Parlia
ment and outof it, to cover the French Repub
lic with ignomy, and to draw upon it the exe
cration of the Engliih nation, and of all Europe.
«* That the übjeft of this armament, intend
ed again# France, was not even disguised in the
Engliih Parliament.
" That although the Provilional Executive
Council of France has employed every measure
for preserving peace and fraternity with the
Englifli nation,and has replied to calumnies and
violation of treaties, only by remonflrances
founded on the principles of justice, and expref
fcd with the dignity of free men, the Englifli
Minifler has persevered in his system of male
volence and hostility, continued the armaments,
and sent a squadron to the Scheldt, to disturb
the operations of the French in Belgium.
" That, on the news of the execution of Lou
. is, he carried his outrage* to fh«!F*fench Repuh?
lie to such a length, as to order the Ambaflador
of France to quit the Britilh territory within
eight days.
" That the King of England has manifefted
his attachment to the cause of that traitor, and
hisdefign of supporting U by different resoluti
ons adopted at the moment of his death, both
by nominating generals of his land army, and
by applying to parliament for a considerable ad
dition of land and sea forces, and putting Ihips
of war in commiflion.
" That his secret coalition with the enemies
of France, and particularly with the Emperor
and Pruflia, is confirmed by a treaty concluded
with the firft in the month of January; that he
has drawn into the fame coalition the Stadthold
er of Holland; that that Prince, whose servile
obsequiousness to the orders of *he courts of St.
James and Berlin, is but too well known, has in
the course of the French revolution, and not
withstanding the neutrality which he profeffed,
treated with disdain the agents of France, receiv
ed the emigrants, harraffed the French patriots,
counteia&ed their operations, released, in oppo
fition to cftablifhed usage, and notwithilanding;
the demand of the French Miniver* persons who
had been guilty of forging aflignats; that in the
mean time, with a view to concur in the hos
tile defigus of the court of London, he gave or
ders for a naval armament, named an Admiral,
appointed Dutch ships to join the Englifti fleet,
opened a loan to defray the expences of the war,
put a stop to exportations to France, while he fa
voured fending fupphes of provision tothePrui
fian and Austrian magazines."
Considering, in fine, that all these circumftai
ces no longer leave to the French Republic a*y
hope of obtaining, by means of amicable
ciation, the redress of their grievances, and fhat
all the ads of the Britilh court, and of the Stadt-
holder of the United Provinces, are a<sts of hos
tility, equivalent to a declaration of war. The
National Convention decree as follows :
Article I. The National Convention declares
in the name of the French nation, that, consi
dering the multiplied afis of hostility and ag
greflion of the above mentioned nations,
THE FRENCH NATION IS AT WAR WITH
THE KINO OF ENGLAND AND THE
STADTHOLDER OF THE UNITED PRO
VINCES.
11. The National Convention charges the Pro
visional Executive Council to call forth such for
ces as may appear to thera nccefiary for repel
ling their aggrcGion, and for maintaining the in
dependence, the dignity and the interefh of the
French Republic.
111. The National Convention authorises the
Provisional. Executive. Council to dispose of the
naval forces of the Republic in such a manner
as the intcrelU of the Hate may appear to them
to require; and it revokes all particular difpofi-
tions ordered in this refpejl by preceding de-
creeb.
359
'• pArae-EdLANTiME moved that an
to the English people might be drawn up to in
form them of the tcivl motives which have
brought on the war between the two countries;
and that the Convention would decree that all
£aga{!i and Dutch merchant*, and other indivi
duals who maybe travelling in France on busi
ness, (Kail have every protection, provided they
copform to the laws,of the Republic. Boththofe
propoiitions were decreed.
Testament of louis xvi.
WRITTEN BY HIMSELF.
Read id the fining of the Commons, Jan. 21ft.
Li',trolly translated from a copy received as genuine
•j , by flu, Commons, and certijied by a municipal fficer
j :\tQ,hfve been collated with the original.
y J I' .Jits tjbe name of the Holy Trioitv* tiie Fa-
M&h .Son, and the Hol v y Ghost* this day the I
2vU of December, 1792, I, Lou§ the XVI. by
<>♦ France, having been tor more
than ffkjr monrhs imprisoned with my family
uin the Tower of the Temple at Pari?, by those
who were my fubj?£U, and deprived ot all com
munication whatsoever, ever since theuth inft.
wiih m.y own family ; moreover being impli
cated in a (rial of which it is impotlible io tore
fo. on account of the paiHons of men, |
Jor which no pretext or means can be found
in any exiftmg law ; having only God for the
Witnd.Hof my thoughts, and to whom I can ad- •
dtfrfvtijyfeff, I here declare, in his piefence, my
last will and fenuments :
I leave my foul to God, mv creator, I pray
hini to receive it in mercy, and not to judge it
according to its deserts, but according 10 those
of ou# Lo'id Jesus Christ, wh6 offered himfelf a
fflcrifitjr* to God his Father, for us men, however
unwoithy, and for me the most unworthy. I
die in the union of our mother the Catholic, A
poftoUt, and Rom'an Church, who holds her
by an uninterrupted fuccefliou fiom St.
Peter, Do whom Jesus Christ entrusted the'ro. I
firmly acknowledge and believe e very thing con
-1 tained in the commandments ol QoJ and the
CSftiteh, the sacraments And myftei ies, fuoh as
ih# Chtirch teaches, and hath always taught
tHfni ; I have never pretended to mike mytelf
of the different modes of explaining the
ciogioas which divide the Church ot Jesus Christ-,
but I have conformed, and will always conform,
if God grants me life, to the decisions which
Pit high Ecclefuftics of the Holy Catholic
Mui ch give and ftiall give, conformably to the j
discipline of the Church followed since Jesus
Christ I lament with all my heart, our bre
tiferi who may be in error, but I pretend not tq
jirfge them, and I love them no less in Jesus
Cbrift according to what Christian Charity
tcichcs us ; I pray God to pardon me all my
fm; I have endeavored to know them fcrupu
bvtly, to deleft them, and to humble myfelf in
his presence. Not being able to avail m'yfelf of
tit miniftty of a Catholic Priest, I pray God to
rcceive the confeflion which I have made, and
abfrve all my profound repentance for having
pIA my name (though it was against my willj
tofess which may be contrary to the discipline
aqp belief of the Catholic Church, to which I
hpvc always remained lincerely united in heart ;
, Oray God to accept of my firm resolution, if
fcjigraot. u*e ltfc, to make uCe as soon as I can
qfSjp ministry of a Catholic Priest, to confets
all my fins, and to receive the facra
nwu of repentance ; I reqaeft all those whom I
may have offended through* inadvertence, for I
do not recoilL-ft having knowingly offended any
or|e, or those to whom I may have given bad
example or scandal, to forgive me the evil
wKichihey rhfrik I have done them.
4t I entreat all charitable pet-ions to join their
payers with mine, to obtain ot God the pardon
of my fins.
" I forgive, with all my heart, those who j
have made themfeltes my enemies without my
having given them any cause ; and 1 prav God
to forgive them, as well as those who, through a
faJfe or mistaken xeal, have done me much evil.
" 1 recommeud to God, my wife, my chil
dren, my filler, my aunts, my brothers, and all
those who are attached to me by the tics of blood,
or ininy other manner wbaifocvcr. I pray God
particularly to look with the eyes of mercy on
my vifc, my children, and my filler, who have
loogbeen the partners of my fufferings ; to fuf
taih (hem by his grace, if they (hould lose me ;
and ;s long as they shall remain in this perilha
bjeyvorld. I recommend to him, above all,
tc» them good Christians, and honest mem
ben of society •, to make them confid r the
grandeurs of this world, if they are condemned
io !>rov? them., but as things dangerous and pe
rishable, and to mm their views towards the on
ly and solid glory of eternity. I requcft my lif
ter to continue her tenderness to my children,
and 10 he a mother to them, if they Ihould have
the miifnrruoe to lose their own.
" I entreat my wife to forgive me all the evils
whjch (he fuffers on my accounr, and the unea
siness Which I may have caused her in the cou/fe
ot our union ; as she may be a flared, that I re
member nothing against her, it Die thinks (he
has any thing 10 icproach her fell with.
~u j earncflly recommeud to my children,next
to thei< duty to God, whtch they ought to pre
fer to cvt ry thing, to maintain mutual union,
fubmitlion and obedience to their mother, and
•gratitude for all the cares which Ihe incur! for
them, and in memory of me.
44 I entreat them to consider my lifter as
a second mother. I recommend to my son,
if he fhou'd have the misfortune to become
King, to think that he owes himfelf entirely
to the good of his fellow-otizens j that be
ought to forget all hatred and all retentment,
and especially whatever relates to the misfor
tunes and uneasiness which I experience |
tli* he cannot promote the good of the pub
lic but by reigning according to the laws;
but, at the feme time, that a King cannot
make the laws refpefted, and do the good he
wither, but in proportion as he has the ne
cea'ary authority ; and that, without this, be
in; fettered in his operations, and inspiring
no refpeft, he is more injurious than nfeful.
I recommend to my son to take care of all
the persons who were attached to as far
las his eircumftances Ihall give him the means;
to think that this is a sacred debt which I
have contracted to tbe children or relation?
of those who have died for me, and Hl*kv., to
those who are unfortunate on my } a< count.
I know that tlie.e arc many jpeffoosW those
who were attached to me, who have not coii
durted themselves towards me as they ought,
and who have even (hewn me ingratitude;
but I forgive them in the moments of
trouble and effervefcerrce, a man is not mas*
ter of himfelf) ; and I entreat my for, if he
should have the opportunity, to rememberoli
ly their misfortunes. 1 Could wife to he able
to teftify my gvatitute to thole who have dis
played a true and difintereC.ed attachment »o
me. On the one hand, if I was (enfibly aff:<Tc
ed by the ingratitude and difloyaftv or periods
to whom I had never (hewn any thing but fa<-
vor to them, their relations, or friends ; on
the other, J have had the consolation off lec
'ing the voluntary attachment *».d interest
which many persons have, shewn to me. I en
treat them to accept of my thanks ; in the ii
tuation in which things still are, I should he
afraid of bringing them into danger, if I were
to speak more explicitly ; but 1 recommend
particularly to my son to seek ail occasions of
discovering them.
4< I lhould, think that I ca
lumniated the sentiments of the nation, did I
not openly recommend to my Ton M. M. da
Chamilly and Huet,whofe true attachment to
me induced them to (hut • themselves up with
me in this mournful relidence, and who were
near being the unhappy vt&ims of what they
did. I also recommend to him Clerl, with
whose attention I have had every reason to be
fatisfied since he has been with me. As it is
he who has remained with me to the last, I
request M. M. of tlie Commune, to deliver to
him my clothes, my books, mi watch, #\y
purse, and the other little etfe&s which Have
been deposited at the Council of the Com
mons.
M I also moil willingly forgive /hose who
guarded me, the ill treatment /nd severity
which they thought it their dut/ to make me
fufFer. IJiave found some fc/ling and com
passionate fouls; may they efjoy the tranqui
lity of heart, wbich ought fpviug from their
manner cf thinking!
* 4 I entreat M. M. Tron
chet and Defeae, to receive here my tbenks,
and the expreifion of ijiy sensibility, sots all thft
care and all the pain/which they tOolr'for me.
" I conclude by /declaring, befocr God, »t>d
ready to appear before him, that I reproach
myfelf witli none of the crimes which are al
ledged to nie.
K Done, in duplicate, at Tower of tlie
Temple, December 25, 17^^-
(Signed Louis) f) " LOUrS."
(A true Copy) >
BAUDRAIS, Municipal Officer.
Yeftorday arrived here the ftiips George
Barclay, Capt. Cotfet and Harmony, Cap'.
Ofman from London —also the Adrianna,
Capt. Robert pin from Liverpool; the Adrian
na left Liverpool the JJth February.—lt was
reported there, that Gen. Dumourier had had
a battle with the Auftrians and Prussians, and
iTacl totally defeated them—in confluence
of which army had entered Hol
land ; another report is that a body of the
Dutch forces had been defeated.—Accounts
by the. abovs arrivals state that the Britiih
and French cruisers fwarra on the coalls of
France and England-r-that various captures
had been made by the French and Englifli—
and that the American flag was unmolelled.
Capt. Collet met with two Britifti frigates on
his pafTage —by the Captains of which he was
treated with the greatest politeness. We do'
not find that the account of the execution
of the Queen of France is confirmed by these
arrivals—and conclude it is premature.—
The George Barclay has brought a large num
ber of paiTengerj.
Various reports were circulated yesterday,-
among others—That the American Minister
at the Court of London had given that Court
aflurances of a drift neutrality in the present
war between Great-Britain and France, on
the part of the United States. Another re
port is, that a French cruiser had chaced a
British velTcl into Norfolk, Virginia. Time
will fix the authenticity orfaifeliood of the va
rious rumours of the day.
The fchooncr Frederickfburg Packct, An.
derfon, arrived here on Monday last from
Malaga.
Capt. Anderfon put into Gibraltar on the
23d Feb. where he received the following ad
vices :—That the French Republic had de
clared war against Great-Britain and Holland
—that the late Queen of France had been ,
tried and executed at Paris about the 10th of
Feb. and that the Algerines had declared war
against Holland, Denmark, fend Sweden.
Several British ships of war were cruising
in the Streights, to protest the English and
Dutch ihips from the French and Algerine
cruiTeu, and to convoy them into Gibraltar,
where 3 Durch (hips had already arrived.
Major Nathan Goodall,.of Bellepte, on the
Ohio, was lately captured by two Indians.
In the Virginia Centinel of (he fiift inft. it
published a lift of murders and depredations
lately committed by the ravages in Mcro diftrie>,
from the 18 h to the 26th January last, elevrrk
killed and (even wounded—and a confiderabie
number of horses stolen.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED* the PORT of PHILADELPHIA.
Brig A&ivc, M'Keevtr, Sr. Croix
Schr. Frederick (burg Packet, Andcrfon, Malaga
(*nd Gibraltar
Sr. Euftatius
Middlciou
Aux-Cays
Ceorju
Slc.-p Sally, Smiih,
Sigrwl, Starr,
Nancy, Stiles,
Oliva >nd Mary, Pelre'e.
PRICE~OF STOCKS.
6 per Cer.ti, 17/6
3 per CcntF, 10/
Deferred, ioj6
Full lharcs jßank U. 5. 9 per cent, prcmPARIS, January iJ.
Ciliztn Ducher .< frtjtd of a decree Jot
the purpose of making the United
Statu of Jmoriea pay what the) owe
it thi t'nnch Government.
THE L'uiieJ Su<es of America,
i"iy» the Citizen D«eher, owe |
ro Frwice man)' i»ill-iosn of money.
1 (hewed long ago means for facili
tating the recovery of that debt, a
debt which is the most legitimate a
nation could have contracted.
In the year I 785, i wrote, " I hat
General Sullivan offered to pay the.
iiiare New-l!anipftiire bears in the
American National debt due to
France, in timber, mails, boats, and
l'alt beef.
In the year n$Q, 1 proposed that
the debt there, fhoold be paid in
proportion to the conftitntion of that
eonntry ; and as the United Stares
could not pay the debt in specie, I
proposed that each itaie should pay
off that debt in the productions of
their Coil, transported to fiance in
their bottoms, which would he tne
more beneficial to thein, as those ar
ticles mult rife in the value by such
exportation.
In order to interest all the Ame
rican states in the mode of payment,
I ihHik we ought to accept of the
productions ot the northern, cen
tral, and finithern states ; namely,
in timber, (Mt beef and pork, corn,
fiaur, tobafcfo, rice, and other naval
piovifions.
Project cf thE Decree.
The National Convention, deli
rous that the French (hould be clofe
]y allied with th* citizens of the
United States of Ainerica, and w»(li
ing to Facilitate liquidation of
rbe debt doe by ibofe state* to
France, by direi't payment, which
may be advantageous to both nati
ons, and t6 raider their m utual com
mercial relations more frequent, de-
crees : ,
Article I. That no merchandize
or productions of vhe United States
ef America, of which the impor.a
lion into France is, o>" will be per
mitted, (hall be other wiic imported
than dire&ly from those states,
in French and American bottoms,
under the penalty of confifcailqn of
the veflels and their cargoes.
11. The Executive council is au
thorised-to receive from the United
States of America, the payment of
part, or even the whole of the debr, ]
due from that nation to France in
fpCcie, bills of exchange drawn up
on Europe, merchandize and pro
ductions of the real growth and pro
duce of the said states, at their prime
cost in the said states.
The National Treafuryisjikewife
-authorized to draw upon the . . re *l
fury of the states of America bills of
-exchange, which after their accept
ation and payment, as well as re
ceipts for ready money, bills of < ex
change upon Europe which mall
have been paid, all American arti
cles of merchandize, and produtftT
otre whicb (hall have been delivered
in those states, (hall be admitted as
legal payment, and as the real ac
quittal of the discharge of the said
debt.
IRELAND.
" ip ou4B0u4B of Lords, Jan. 10.
The Ho"fe unanimonfly agreed
to a dutiful and loyal »ddreft to his
Maiefty, on the speech of the Lord
Lieutena,nt to bo.ili H,oufes of Paili*
anient. '
The House likewise agreed to a.n
add reft of thanks to tbe Loid Lieu
tenant, tbe F>uk(? of Lejutter being
the only difleiuient.
In th<? cftuiff of the debate, the
Lord Chancellor took notice of the
petition pi efented to his Majesty
from tbe Catholics of Ireland,which
},e reprobated in very severe terms,
on account of the many misrepre
sentations and unfounded allegati
ons contained in ir ; and declared
his intention, Ihould befland alone,
to oppose any bill which fliould be
brought forward, for a total re-eal
of the popery laws of that kingdom.
« No man," said hi* Lordship, "is
more ready than 1 am to enter cool
ly and di'fpaflionately into the na
ture of their claims. Ido most fo
-lem lily protest, that as an individu
al I never have, ner will I evpr en-
quire, what may be the religion of
any wan ; if he be an honest man.
\»lratfoe*er his religion may be, u
Jh*ll never influence uie in aiy pri-
vate dealing ; and the more zcalouf
ly any man is attached to any reli"
gion which heprofefles, the greater
confidence ihall I always be inclined
to put in him. But we all know
the influence which religion has u
niforntly had upon the political go
vernment of every nation in Europe,
and it is iu this point of view alone,
in wbicW > vrill ever consider the
claims of" the Catholics in thisHoofe.
If there be a clause in the statute
book which restrains their religious
worship—is there be a clause which
renders their charaifiets, their pet
lons, or their properties, less secure
than the characters, tlie perfoiis,. or
the properties of Proceftants, let it
be repealed ; but, if any roan can
be so wild as to look to a total re
peal of the Popery laws of this king
dom —if any man can be so wjld as
to desire to communicate 'he effici
ent power of a free Protestant go
vernment, to a great majority of
the people of Ireland profetfing the
Popish religion, I do not fcrople to
fay, that it is an abl'urd and a wick
ed speculation. lam fatisfied that
as long as the nature of man conti
nues to be what it is, it is utterly
impossible that a zealpus Catholic
can exerclfe the efficient powers of
government, in support of her <on
neftion with the Protestant empire
of Great-Britain : and therefore,
if I am the single man in Ireland to
raise my voice against such a pro
jetft, I will resist it It is not to the
people who profefs the Catholic r*-
ligion that I look upon thisoCcafioi,
it is to the principles of that religi
on, to which 1 know they are zei
loufly and fuperftitioufly devoted ;
to the influence vrhich these princi
ples have had upon the political go
vernment of every nation in Eu
rope for centuries. If unfortunate
ly for this country, we shall ever
be induced to make so fatal an ex
periment, we may reft allured, tb*t
the niaintainance of a Protertant es
tablishment, and of our connetftWfti
with Great-Britain, must be oncc
more put to the iflue of the fwdfi
and whenever the fubjeift
mended to us from the throne, fhffll
come into debate, I will (tare, with
out reserve, thegrounds upon which
I have formed that opinion. I trust,
however, that no degree of lenity,
or rashness, qr timidity, will ever
induce the parliament of Ireland to
yield her best security for the peace
and prosperity of the country, com
mitted to their care. Whatever e-
I vents may arise, I will in
defending the present conft»t»tion
of this country, and transmitting it
to pofterfcy ; and, info doing, I am
fatisfied that I shall prove the best
friend of the people of lreand,
whether Protestants or Catholits."
Post-Road
TO THE GENESEE COUNT AX. 1
THE public are hereby informed, that the
Pod-Road from Philadelphia to Reading,
is continued to Sunbury and NorthiirnberUnd ;
thertce up the Weft Branch of the Sufquehaonah
as far as Licothing; thcnce to the Painted Post
[in Nc>v-Yprk date, near the foiks of the Tioga)
thencc to Bath (a town laid out on the Coho&on
Branch of the Tioga) thence to Williamfburg,
at the forks of Genefre River,
Letters for thi* new route will be sent fiom
the Philadelphia Port-Office every Wednesday
morning, at eight o'clock, with the mail for
' Reading.
A weekly mail will alto be carried from
Bethlehem to WiKkefbarie, in the of
Luzerne.
General Poji-Cjiee, Apti! 6, 1793
ADV fc-&TI SB ME N T.?
WHEREAS a BRIDGE is to he built over
Raritan River, at the city qf tycw-Brunf
wick, in the state of New-Jerfey.-*-lo accomplifli
which, will require the ferviceof many carpen
ters and mason* of experience ; Notice is there
fore hereby given, that any person or perlpju.in
clining to undertake the whole, or any patt $j#LC
of, by applying to the fubferibers, on $r btnrtre
the fiiftday of May ne xt, may h*vc an opjiorfu
tjity of cajttra&ing for the fame.
JOHN BAYARD,
JACOB
JOHN DENNIS, Sen.
Brmifaicki Mi arch 24 th. e p&°
ADVERTISEMENT.
NOTICE is hereby given, That the Com
miflioners appointed by the Board of
Trustees of the Uinverfity of Noi;th-Cafohoa,
will attend at the town of HillfVoraugh, on the
iß'h, 19th ?nd 2Gih days of April next, tpr the
puipofe of receiving propofaU frqn\ fucb j?er
fons as may bo disposed to undertake the Build
ings of the Univerfuy.
FREDERICK HARGETT, Chairman.
360
JUST putifsntD,
By Thomas Dobfon,
SnMUr, at (k Snne-Heifi, W.<i/urf,
FKItAMvrHI*,
VOLUME VJII, or
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
on, a DICTIONARY of ARTS, .SCIKNCtS,
and MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
On a Plan entirely new :
BY WHICH
t«i Diffiokt SCIENCES and ARTS
are dieefted into thr Form of
TREATISES on SYSTEMS :
THIS VOIVTtE CONTAIN!
An Account of the Cape of Good Hope,
Grafting, Cmverfal Grrmmar, Gnflc«,
Gtetce, f;rrcrl*nd, C»n»iw, G»«wa, Gunncrv,
H»ppiwf«, Harmony, H«»t, H»p<k«-A«t, "<■-
ra'diy, Hindoftan, New-
Holland, Horfr, Hoffcmanftup, Homntois,
Hunting, ttufl»a«*r*, iiy«komet<rr, wkh a g«at
variety I>< Biographical and Arti
cles. Embelliflisd wuJi fi*t«en CoppeifiUiei.
CONDITIONS.
L The w»rk. i» printing wo a fuperfine pap"!
an) nrw ty t >«, (oft for the purpose) which
\«ll be occafionatly renewed before iliey coti
t:a& a worn appearance.
11. The wprk. is furniftied in boards, in volumes
or half-volumes, as fubfenbers chufe;the puce
ol the whole valumcs, five dollars each, ot the
half-volumes two dollars and two-thirds of a
dollar «ach. Ten dollars to be paid on fub
fcrtbtog, the volumes or halt-volumes finilhed
to be paid for when delivered, the price of one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each succeeding volume to be paid on deliver
ing the voJtrme preceding it. No part of the
work will be delivered unkfs paid for.
It!. In the so irfcof the publication will be de
livered about five hundred copperplates elc
jpntly engraved in Philadelphia : which by
tor exceed in number thofc given in any other
fcientific Attheclofeof theptib- |
lication will be delivered an elegant front if
piece 4 the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for the different volumes*
It is expeaed the work wilt be comprised in
about eighteen volffmes in quarto.
fcT At fiver at gentlemen who have honored this
undertaking with early ftbft-ipticms, hate only re
ceived a fmali part of the work, they are earnejlly
requeued to complete their Jets, as Jar a< pMxfhed,
immediately, while the pMJher Jlilt has Hin hi
hower to fuppb <'"* n ' itk the P"'" °'*" A
been furvil&ed. As the fubjcription will very poffi-
W» be closed iv the ftr/l of Jul y next, the pMJher
cannot undertake to complete fits a/Ur that period ;
and those who wijh to ticome potfejfors oj this truly
valuable and important work, will pleajc apply before
the expiration, oj that time, that they may not be dif-
heavy expencc nctejfarih incurred in car,
r\ing on this work, makes it mdifpcvfably reqm/te
for the pubhfher to adhere more Jfriffh than he has
done to the original condition, of delivering the vo
lumes only on being pat J for them,
| Apnl 6, i 703-
—Department,
JA nu AI V 28, 1793.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
military Invalids of the United States that
the funis to which they *re entitled foi fix
nionvhsof their annual penfwn, from the 4th day
of September 179 a, and which wilt become dike
on the 51 h day of March 1 793, will he paid on
the (aid day by the Comtmffioners of the Loans
within the fh'tes rsfptflivoly, under the ofvul
regulations, viz.
Every application for payment iruit be ic
conipanied by the followiog vouchers :
ill. TKc certificate given by the ilatc, ipecify
itig that the person poffefling the lame is in fafl
an Invalid, and ascertaining ihe sum 10 which,
a$ such, he is annually intitled.
2d. An affidavit agreeably to the following
form :
A. 15. came before me, one of the Jufbces
of the county of in the state of and
made- -oath that he is the fame A. B. to whom |
the origin*! certificate in his poffelljon was giv
en, of which the fallowing ia a; copy (tie cer
trficate given by the state to be tecited) That
he fervid (regiment, craps or vrffcl) at the
time be w*« disabled, antl that he now rehdes
in the and connty of and ha« fefided
(here for the last yews, previous to which
he reftded in
Jt> cafe an Invalid (hould apply for payment
by an attorney, the said attorney, besides '.he
certificate and oath before recited, must produce
a fpeqial letter of attorney agreeable to the fol
lowing form :
T, A. B. of conntv of ft»t» of
do hereby conftitttte and appoint C. B. of
' my lawful attorney, to receive inroy behalf of
mv penfwn for fix rooat&s, as an Invalid
of the United States, f coro thr 4th day of Sep
tember 1792, and eadiug the-4th day of March
t?93-
Signed and Sealed
in lit Pcefeuce of
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and adminiurators
must be accompanied with tvidfftCC of
their refpe6rive offices, and also of the time the
Invalid died, whose pension they may claim.
By Command of the Pieiident
ol ihe United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary al Wat.
TO BE SOLD,
A noted covering Horse,
OF THE HUNTING BREED.
HE was imported from England in Novem
ber, seventeen hundred and eighty-fix, and,
is now ten years old ; he is a Lrigttt bay, with a
blaze,fifteen handsone inch high,is well form'd,
has a gteat deal of bone and and hi&
action equal to aivy hotfc. His colts arc well
approved of in the ditlcfent parts of the State
where he hasiltood, of which any person inclined
- to purchase can uifati* Enquire
ps the Printer.
February 18, 1793. 8t
Stock Brokers Office
No. lb, W-jH-ltrtxt, Kew-Vok.
TlESsbfcriktr inirnoinf <o conhoc himfrll
rmirelv it. thr HutLi o.
STOCKS on COMMIS.s/OA',t>r S ,| fa , cloo(
fei hu Icfvicca to hisiuriidt. tnd lulb
line of j Stock Broker. Thi.fr w(inmiv p| tJ r.
to favor him with rhrir butinc<i, may erni-, i
upon having it tranfatted * ith ihe u moit # C( .
Hty atrd dispatch.
Ortfcr, from Philadelphia, Bofroo, 0r,,,
other part of the Untft d Sraieo, will be H,M;
attended to.
(1.1.)
By THOMAS JOHN.iON, DAVIQ
STUART.kD.iNfEL
Efquirts,
foMMH4io»»ii ippwimed by&o«iiirti ; » w
prepare ihc Hliilic BoiWn»<>, In. yvuki l ,j, 4
Guv of WtJkinftoH, tor ihc r»tcp!n« ot Co,,*
grefs, and tor ijbcix prruuacot n.-iueu« *tie»
tlie ytariSco—i
A LOTTERY
FOR TH£IMPROVEMENT Or THE
Federal City.
Jppocx Tickets at 7 dollars, ?re 35.0,090 doll;u,
LIST OF PRIZES, vi-z
1 Supeib Koiel* with baths,/
OUt lioui'cs, &C.&C. 10 cod (
1 Calh Prize
1 ditto
1 ditto
i ditto
2 ditto
10 ditto
20 ditto
100 ditto
200 ditto
400 ditto
1,000 ditto
I£,QQO ditto
• 6.737 P''»«
33,263 Blanks
50,000
By this scheme at kajl the amount of I he. tick
ets will return 10 the fortunate and
yet the federal City will gain its obj>6l
in a magnificent tuUding dcTigned both for pub.
lie and private convenience.
Although some cxpence must nccrffat-Hy it.
tend the conducting of the lottery, f which ex.
pence will he taken frotn the printipal priiejthc
Com mtfTioners having agreed to prefcm m rr
tura a fufficient quantity of excellent ftee-lloiic,
together with the best adapted lots far the hotel
and for the out-boufct, the val»p of the lattery
eoiiff may be fairly rated at ftmttking mrc tiat
a this important instance it w ill be iuiuiA,
on exaitri«mian, to exceed all the lotrerirsibtf
have ever beeirtHC***i_ tftl ihc Public U) tins Of
perhaps in any other couniiy."--Tj>,- Vry^.ij tl>c
Hot,el, when compleat, will be delivereft w ,>»,
lortunve pofcffor of the ticket drawn aapioft
its number.—Ail the other prizes w ill be pairl,
without dciußion, in one month after the dittoing, Ky
the City Treafuicr at Wafhingtoi., or at fucti
Bank or flanks as may be hereafter announced,
for the eonvenieney of the fortunate adventurer*
The drawhr.g will commence on Monday ito
gth of Stptembci next, at tke City of Walking
ton.
Tic.keti tna.y be had of Col. WDickens, Citv
Treasurer of Wafbington ; Tha.tr (3 6tr(kl, of
Charleft.«n, South-Cwolina ; Gideon Jitnifm,S»-
vaiuiah i MefTrs. Junta Weft & Co. Baltimore;
Mr. Peter Oilman, Boston; and at tucU other
places as will be hereafter p«bli(h(d.
N. H. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
he giveo for the bell Plan ol an elegant atii con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and coW
Baths, Stables, and other out houses, if prejentci
onor before tjie iQth ef April ntxt\ and a pre
ference will be given (o the Artist for a Con*
iraft, provided he be duly qualified to
compleat his plan, the ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be efe«ed, will
be a corner lot of about qo by 206 feet, with '
back avenue to the stables, &c. Se&inns an
eftimales of the expense will be expetlti
with the elevation*. Ac. compleat ; and s°'°°®
dollars mutt be regarded by the Architt"V«*
utmost limit in the txprnle intended lor mis
purpose. S. BLODGE ,
Agent for, the affairsofthc tity.
March 6, >793-
D;»t*7ciVf Pt»»in«*«n. it wit.
T) E IT REMEMBERED, T"« »
(w \JJ the thirteenth day oi March, in
V ) the seventeenth year e>f the Indrpen
"—' dencc of the Uuitcd Suvwtf 4W^ r «>
Thomas. Donsus, of the said D4n6t, £
pufited in ibis Olfi'e, the Title of a Bock,
Right whereof he claijnt as Proprietor, int»«
words following, to wit. ,
« Ax Fnauiry how far the
«,V nee.fry in ff
Hhflrations. By William Bradford,, fjf-
Tv which is aided, an
PenHentMn Ho-fi 'f PkiUicfo, W
" interior Management tbreof. fy
•' Lownes, of Philadelphia. -fj « f 1
« MthtCeufes ol
" AtUlndtktl they prmstd frm r>
" of (. rimei, and not from the AfafertW* v
" r.iflunenls." Mootefq.
In conformity to the A3 of the (Jk;
the United States, umtukA. ■** lbt
Encouragement of yearning, V . u .
Copies of Maps, Cto*s j tht
thors and Proprietors of Cuch Copies,
Times therein mentioned."
SAM'JtL CALDWELL,
Clerk ol the DiHtift of Ptn»fyl'»»"-
Q3- The above uorh is follj*
William Price Young : \ cW .y,r>.
Currit : Baltimore, h Jams .
by Thomas Alien : Be fan, tv Daw —-
' P" tn cmpleatftlp
hers 70 and Bc—Six pevee cich mU «P>
EJUor 'for
(pr The prirt ofthiGaut (eis ueu tf±
pr anni,tr.—Ot Ms &' P*'* '
scribing.
epirn
LEON AM) UKUxii.
5&,c00
25-°°6»
IiO.QOG
»s*aoo
10,000
10,000
10,000
IOfOOO
10,000'
ro'.ooo
10,000
2C,0C0
5,000 are
1,000
500
100
5°
25
20
T5
DoUau 3S).ooo
1