of§
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS 'BY jOHN FENNO, No. 34, NOPTH FIFTM-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 104 of Vol. IV.]
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STAtES.
THOUGHTS ON THE
STATE OF AMERICAN INDIANS.
(Continued Jrom A'o. 99' °J
\ NOTHER. important step to lie taken in
XI bringing the aborigines of this country
to civilized manners, is the permanent eftab
lifliment of mariage between a Jingle pair —
Tbe practice of polygamy* —tlie informalities
of the marriage contraftf— rhe tVf S u "? nt
and causeless reparation:,? which take place
anions them, call tor a reform. Polygamy is
condemned by nature—the proportion which
•xifts between the two sexes—the aiftnal ex
perience of its inefficacy to promote popula
tion, and the jealou'y, diftrull and inhumanity,
it creates, prove it incompatible with the in
tereils of focietv or morals.
The formalities at the commencement of
the contrast, are so few and unimportant, as
leave no durable imp re ill on of the obligations
it confers—and the frequent divorces and
renewed marriages, leTen domeftx harmony,
weaken parental affection, and retard the
multiplication of* the £p.cie s. The initiation
of marriage, is one of the foundation princi
ples of civil society. It at once raises tliafe
male !'ex from that (late of degradation in
tvhich savage nations have confined then), to
the rank and influence to which by the equal
laws of nature they are entitled gives
them that ascendency over the public opinion
and manners, which they are peculiarly fitted
to maintain. The delicacy of their constitu
tions, the exquisite fanfibility of their pallions,
the foftnefc of thetr manners, and the attrac
tions of love, are calculated to temper the
fierce paflions, and humanize the coarser feel
ings of the msn. The ellimation of women
is in effect a diftinguilhing mark of growing
refinement.
Marria»e also lays t'.ie mod folidfoundation
or domestic happiness and the in create of po
pulation. A community of good":—a partici
pation of joy and sorrow—mutual in te reft in
each others reputation —the habit of recipro
cal attention! and kindrceiles, and the equal
and interelling care of the offspring, ft length
en the attachment 6f the parent?, sweeten
the ties which unite them, and add rtew de
lights toall the scenes of dpmeftic intercourse.
Marriage further jjnfures the care ofebirh the
parents to support and educate their children,'
and to train tliem to ferae employment by
-which they may be able to obtain their own
subsistence, and contribute to t'.ie wealth and
strength of the community.
It is in the narrow circle of domestic socie
ty that good members of the community are
formed. There the principles of order, Iv
bordinatioll and induftty, are firjl acquired,
and vouth t' ained for the duties of manhood.
In the means employed by ancient legisla
tors to introduce the institution of marriage,
to rentier it honorable, and lo prevent the vi
olation ps it, we traca the high elteem in
which they held it.s
The more effectually to destroy the promis
cuous and temporary connexion which gene
rally provails between the sexes in ,rude and
lavage nations, and to introduce the custom
of a permanent union between a single pair—
they incorporated the form of marriage with
the ceremonies of religion, and fanftioned it
by t : ie authority of the laws.
Thev also availed themselves of thofc cus
toms to which accident or neceffityhad given
birth, and by blending them with their infti
tutlpns, facilitated their reception, and aug
mented the public veneration for rr.odefty a ,d
cbcorum. In later times, the fame princi
ples have been adopted for the fame purpose.
Thus the man always solicits. The ceremony
is performed by a person invested with autho
rity, in the presence of the relations and
friends of the partie-., attended with some ast
of religion. So highly was the conjugal union
efleemed among the ancient Greeks, that
above two centuries elapsed before widows
dnrft marrv again, and the lurprife of anti
quity has tranfm'tted us the name of the wo
man whofirit entered on a ieoond marriage—
celibacy was oifgvaceful, and barremicts was
deemed a great misfortune.||
Children born in lawful wedlock were an
honor and an ornament to their parents, and
gave them rank smd diftinftion among their
fellow citizens.
In Home marriage was encouraged by an
nexing particular privileges to ir. Those
who bad the mod children, ceteris paribus, were
always preferred. Thus the confn'i who had
the mo ft numerous offspring, received the en
signs of'office firft, and bed the choice of tlie
provinces. The senator, in like cirenmftan
ces, had hit name written firft in the cata
logue, and the privilege of dtfivei ing his opi
nion firft in the fcnate. Such were sooner ca*
pubic of office, and were exempted from such
as were tropb'efome.l
* Carter, (fiap. 12.
+ Ibidem Hijhry t*j S'trth Arteries, p. 63.
J Caivt T iChap* 12. 10/ den 9 Hi/lory ej the Five
nilitns.
i 10/ 1 p. 52.
1 wL 11. p. 123,
Wednesday, May 29, 1 793•
The severe law? of almost all nations a
gainlVconjugal infidelity difcovcr to us the
refpe<st they entertained for modeQy, an( l the
care thry employed to preserve the public ve
neration for it—among the Egyptians, Gre
cians, Romans, Hindoos, Germans, and Pe
ruvians—the crime of adultery was punished
with extreme rigor.
Thus by establishing a permanent union be
twee 11 a jingle pair—by obtaining the public
fentimeut in favor of it—by ena&ing laws to
prevent the violation of the contract and by
strengthening the natural guards to morteftv,
ancient legislators brought their people from
promiscuous love to a lawful and honorable
connection, and rendered it a powerful inftru
merrt in improving their manners and in
bringing them to a relish for ciyii society.
Let these precautions which have succeed
ed in'other nations be taken to establish mai
riages among our American let the
ceremony be public and solemn—let it be ho
norable and de fir able—ma k e it the inteieft
of the parents to iTave a numerous offspring,
let those who excel in this refpeft be entitled
to superior dilfc'indlion and let modesty be
guarded by the public Yeutiment and the au
thority of Jaw.
For the Q AZEI f £ of. the UAITED STATES.
MR. FEN NO,
IN j unification of the French revolution
which proinifes to be productive of foiiiucb
good to mankind, though unhappily attended
with fomc very disagreeable appenda< es in
bringing it about, permit me to recapitulate,
some observations I have met with in the
course of my reading on the civil war of
Great Britain in the last centu-y.
u Tlie English have, by more historians
than one, been much reproached for entering
so readily into a civil war agtinft thtir so
vereign, and the fame reflexions have been
made against other nations, tbat have been
actuated by the fatoe spirit : It may not
the efore be amfs t<S enquire into the pro
priety of this opinion and draw a flight pa
rallel between the value of Liberty, and the
unhappy effetts which must neceifarily atrend
the ailertion of it, by violent means—lf the
latter are found to outweigh the formev, tbofe
who have made such remarks are doubtlcls in
the right, and have proved fuHicicntly that h
nation when she finrfs her liberties attacked,
had better resign them all ?,t once, and by
that means escape the horrors of a civil war.
But if coolness is pardonable in answering
such a proportion, let us ask a plain quellion
without the least hear—What on earth is so
valuable as freedom ? Cart any Sacrifices too
great be made for the preservation of that,
without which nothings any longer of value ;
without which all poflcUlon, even of the com
mon rights of nature, enjoyment of health,
family, fortune and every thing most dear to
the human mind is totally precarious ! Can
any,one hesitate a moment in answering this
query I A florid description of the honors of
a civil war, may be the answer. But why
are these cffe&s called horrors ? Surely be
canfe they are deftru&ive of those very con
nections and poifeflions, the fecuiity of which
fly on the approach of arbitrary power. Can
a civil war be the ruin of any thing, which
despotism will spare ? Are not domestic con
vulsionl; temporary, and the loss of liberty per
petual ? May not the security of every thing
valuable to mankind, be rendered permanent
by a resolute defence of liberty ? Is any thing
gained by its loss ? where then, in the name
of common sense, can be found an argument
futficient to level the comp«vifon.
But I ain not much surprised at historians
disliking the age wherein public liberty is
alFerted; the reign of Charles the firft can
not figure like that of an Anne, wherein the
a&ions of a Marlborough are recited—nor
like that of a Lorn XIV. <vherein the mo
narch is the grand Hero. But where a peo
ple are struggling for their liberty-—'where
the legislative power is conftantJy involved ♦
in disputes with an M designing executive,
the historic page is by no means brilliant.
The nation's jealousy and ftubbornefs may
hare some bad consequences in the opinion of
cou-tiers—-the reign may not be fliining, but
perplexed and crabbed, filled with the circle
of endless disputes, and aIJ the jarring diflo
nance of patriotism and power, party and
corruption, accusation and defence, with a
long string offufpicions and fears,which make
a wretched figure in hiftpry—-in such a litua
tion even the public foreign affairs will fuffer.
Paltry considerations ! Let them : The peo
ple however are feturitg their Liberty; ai d
they had better preserve that, with such fan
cied disgrace, than lose it triumphing in the
midst of glory.
I ain persuaded that a free nation, had bet-
ter be continually involved in disgusting dis
putes between courtiers and patriots, in all
the minut»»of discontent, and jealous of the
power of government, be aiming ever at fix
ing new bounds to ambition, and raiting frelh
obstacles to despotic designs better far let
their annah be defpiled in future age;, as a
collection of difguftin£ quarrels and vaih vio
413
lenres, than hare therti fliitie with the glori
ous but diabolic details, which enliven and
adorn the page of an hiftonpn.—'The con
quests of an Alexander—the fla lightered mil-
lions of a Caesar—- the daring rashness of a !
Charles ; and the victorious career of a Fre
deric ; —Thefe are the tales of wonder which
glow in fp endid colours beneath the pencil of
an admirin-g recorder ; these are the wretch
cs who fill the world with carnage—trample
on the liberties of mankind"-—break thus all
the ties of nature, and leave their uames fore
moil on tl}e lift of Fame.-—l 4 this fame ?Is
fame the rfcward of these military heroes, who
to use an excellent expre&on of RofTeau,—
arc good #>r nothing h - to knock one ano
ther, on the head—what a pother is made a
bout this fjime ! This {hilling phantom which
glitters oil the ruins of humanity ! The ines
timable worth of liberty is not to be put in
competition with these alone, but with civil
wars themselves and every domestic convul
sion that can'difturb a free people :■ No hor
rors are too g>eat to hazard for the enjoyment
of this of all earthly blefTnigs. Take
the long run fcf several ages, and it will be
found that public freedom. luis feidom bee-n
ft-cured u by means of domestic war; En
gland has n&ttre than once bee,n a pregnant
inflance of this. To the courage of worthy
patriot, exerted in the field agair.ft the sway
of tyranny, is that freedom owing, which we
now enjoy and is the envy of nine tenths of
Europe. It is to the convulsions which shook
England in the middle of the laiV century,
that fucceedmg owe their liberty. Tho'e
wars, it is true, were vety terrible (though
not half fomtoch so, as <# e modern campaign)
but had they been fifty times more so, would
a brave nation hesitate to hazard all, to over.,
turn the effc&s of arbitrary power ? No,
paint the terrors of domeilic war in the mod
ftrikiMg cftlours ; the terrors of despotism
will be more terrible itii! ; infinitely are all
imaginable Jiorrors of that kind Co be prefer
red to the deadly, tranquility which biood*
over a nation of (laves—before that stats of
stupid fereiiity, Corruption and negligence
which ftfeinate's a nation's courage, and with
all the lilence of certainty forges the chains
of defpotifiMtfelf."
And reft of the German Republican Society of
Philadelphia, to M GENET, Minister
Plenipotentiary from theßepiiblic of France
to the United States.
Citizen Genet, Mini/ler Plenipotentiary jrom the
Republic oj Frante to the United States oj Ame
rica.
SIR,
THE German Republican Society of Phi
ladelphia, congratulate you as the Re
presentative ofthe people of Fiance, on your
fafe .arrival in this city: We welcome yon,
with heart-felt jov, to this Land of Liberty,
which your generous and gallant nation con
tributed to make happy. We feel the liveli
est fympafhy for tjie diltrelfes of our repub
Heart brethren, whoNare combating the fell
hosts of tyrants, in defence of their own na
tural.rights, and the rights of mankind ; and
deplo;e, that a nation, from whom we are
descended, fliould be among the firft in the
conspiracy against Liberty. We <ee, with
pain and horror, the Confederation of all Eu
ropean despots against Freedom—their united
efforts to fupercede thc general will ,of France :
but though foes encompass her b'ave Amis, we
trtift, the arm, nerved by Li berry, will be
invincible, artd that the millenium ofjtolitlcal
happiness, is opening its profpefts upon them.
The combinations of the sovereignty of the
people, are the only security tor geneial liber
ty and happiness; and we flatter our r e'ves,
these will be at length so well underflood, as
to fix.the Rights of Man upon an immovea
ble basis, and that the French nation will
give an example to the European world, of
rulers and ruled having bur one object
one will—the good of theia country.
With our belt wiflies for the perpetual union
and f-eed.»mof our refpeftive republics, and
for your full enjoyment of every blefling which
can serve the glorious cause in which you are
embarked,
We are,
"With sentiments of republican affection,
Jl\ or/U t ej the Sccitts,
HENRY KAM MERER. P>rJ.
MICHAEL LKIB, ?. s . -
ANPREWGEYER, 5 rC "
Phitad(lphio % May 17, 1793*
TO WHICH HE RETURNFD THB FOtIOWIKC
The Geritian Republican Society of Phila.
delpkia.
Cittzems,
I HAVE had the futirfaflinn of spending
several years of "iv life amot;the people of
Geimanv, and dnritii niy (lay with them,
knew how to esteem and refpeft those indi
viduals, whom the absurd P"ejwlices of birth,
and'tlie difgraceful habit> nf ibvery, had nt
entirely tftranged fii>m huiii-n'ity. Jt
ever u>y opiuiun, that this great nation "would
CJVtS.
Yonf friends,
AN$ W E R
[Whole No. 4*26.
enthufiaftfcally rouse itfelf to vindicate and
maintain with invincible firmnef«, the i'acred
flame of liberty, as soon as it c«>6ld free itfelf
from the incumbrances of its niouftrous con
stitution :—That defirabJe event has not yet,
however, taken The hu#s of del l
pots that have poiiHf. d thfcmfeHtfs of the
fovtfreijn>ty of the German people, (till con
tin lie to rivet their chains upon them : I aw
convinced, however, my opinion is vvelj
founded notwithitandin^*'and that Germany
will be free.
The republican sentiments that animate
Jth2 hearts of al l those 1 have toad the oppor
tunity of feeing beyond the limits of their
own unfortunate country, are a convincing
proof to me, tint this will be the cafe ; and
under fucha view of" things, so important to
the fiiTcere friends of humanity, 1 cannotex
prefs how much your address has excited my
fe'nfibility.
I (hall make your fpntiments known to
illv fe'low-citizens, and i'O lioubt they
will receive, with, the nviir live y marks of
fatfsfietion, the good v/iilics .yon have ex
prefled For the of their arms anfl the
extension of their principles.
EXTRACTS,
Written rn 1790. —Truvjhtedjrvm the French-
IN the human body it is the com
bination of the organs which
form the Cotiftirtition—the head
dictates laws and the other niembeis
execute. It is eliential that the head
which represents the legiftativfe and
judicial powe> s, Ihould be calm and
deliberate in its decrees, and that
the arm, repreffcnting the execu
tive power, Ihould have proi.ipti
tutle and force.
Montesq_uieu, having'fir ft esta
blished the diltiritftioii of the three
powers, proved that they existed in
every form of government, whether
Democracy or Monarchy, Despotism
or Aristocracy, in like manner ».s
the primitive colours exilt and are
found in every ray of the bun.
Such is the leading idea of this
great man. But he has not said
with a fufficient clearness, in treat
ing on the difFerefit kinds of govern
ment, that a pure democracy as well
as art absolute defpotifisi did nor and
cannot exist on eatrth—that they
are two ci eat ure9 of our i magi nai ion,
two conceptions of the mind, two
models of which all the governments
in the world hear (lime resemblance
— for there is in fadt no state where
the people at once govern always
by themselves without representa
tion ; nor is there any empire on
the globe where the will of an in
dividual governs without cnntronl.
Whence it follows, that a~. all polfi
hle governments float between pure
democracy and abfcl-ute despotism,
as between two extremes to which
they more or less approach, there
is not and never will be in the
world but Arijiu;raciei, that is to
fay, mixed governments. This name
is properly given to the govern
ment of those States where 11 perm;-
nent senate governs all without ever
consulting the people. Such is Ve
nice whicti is also called a Repub
lic ; it is a pure ariflocracy in this
fettle, that the three powers are in
the hands of the noble*. Thatllaie
in which the will of an individual
is molt frequently a law, and de
cides on the life or death of the
fnbjeft, is called a despotic Hate.
Such is (he Turkifli empire. But it
is not true that the Sultan is abso
lute master ; his power finds limits
at every step he advances, and he is
obliged to refpedt them. This em
pire then is between arirtocracy and
despotism, but inclines towards 'he
latter. In fine, the (late where the
people choose their inagifhates for
a fixed period, and often aflemble to
exercise the sovereignty, is a demo
cracy, a«d is called a republic ;
such were Athens and Rome, and
such are the United States of Ame
rica. The government of tlie-fe
states is between an aristocracy and
GSNETdemociary, but iodine toW«»'d» the
latter. Pure democracy and ablo
lute defpotiltn are the two primi
tive colour!, the (hades of which
prevail more or left in every kind
of government.
THE Sovereignty is in the People.
This, doubileis, is true ; but it is
in an implied manner, that is to lay,
that the people never (hall exercile
it but to appoint their representa
tives, and in a monarchy, that the
king (hall always be the firft n'agiO
traie—Thus, although it be in taei
true, that every thing comes from
the earth, it is (till neceflTary tofub
due it by labor and culture, as we
fubiedl the people by the authority
and by the laws. The sovereignty
is in tl<e people as fruit is in the
fields, in an abftraA manner. It is
neceflary tha: the fruit palles by the
tree which produces it, and the pub
lic authority by-the sceptre which
excrcifes it. Ctolutnb• dentinet.
Foreign Intelligence.
STOCKHOLM, March ij.
THE Empress of Rullia is said to
have required of our court,llo
further intercourse, diredi or indi
reCt, with France.
The E)uke Regent has given or
ders to equip a fleet of twelve ships
of the line and four frigates, to
serve as a convoy 10 the merchant
men during the present war.—His
Royal Highness is determined to
observe the ftrirteft neutrality ; but
these peaceable sentiments are not
quite agreeeble to the Ruffian court.
The Abbe de Verninac is expect
ed here as Ambassador from the
French National Convention.
A few days ago Count Horn, Pie
iident of the College of War, died
s here, in the 73d year of his age.
LONDON, March go.
Abridgement oj the State of Politics for
this we-ek.
It is an observation of Lord Ba
con's, that " the best things of na
ture, when corrupted, become the
worft—Corruptio optimi fit peffi
ma." There is not a more noble
or more animating passion that fires
the human breast than the love of
liberty. But even this paffion,when
it bursts the barriers,of rea(on, and
lays-profit ate every other consider
ation, degenerates into a torrent of
licentiousness, bold and irrefiftable
iu proportion to the vigour of that
ere<ft sentiment of which it is
an unfortunate perverhon, which
sweeps before it the gradual and
leifnrely monuments of humanity,
refinement, and political and civil
government,and reftoresand threat
ens the reign of anarchy, common
ly followed by that of despotic pow
er. The truth of Lord Verulam's
position with refpe<ft to things mo
ral and political, is fatally verified
by the present disastrous state of
France.
A moderate and not nnreafonable
share of fcbe rty was offered to the
French nation by the late excellent
King : & greater was aflumed, with
out opposition on the part of the
monarch, by the firft National As
sembly, without due confidei ation
of all the mutual dependencies of
the French monarchy, and how
strong a head and hand it required
to keep togeiher so vast and so com
plicated a fabric. The political in
fignificance of the king, unluppnrt
ed as he was by an intermediatory
power between the throne and the
generhl afl'embly,. was quickly fol
lowed by tumult and not a little
bloodshed. The lecond National
Afl'embly alfumcd more liberjy, and
blood began to flow a-pace. This
democracy, according to a very just
though nire difciintinarion, was
soon changed into aLaocracy. The
mob of Paris gave law to the Aflem
bly and the ination. Horrors and
maflacres were multiplied, and are
£1511 increafcd. Infurretftions begin
to appear at Bourdeaux, Lyons, and
other places in France, inoppofition
to the sudden and ill-digested go
vernment of the ufurpprs. Civil
war is kindled in the interior, while
the world, combined in arms, prefl
es on the frontiersof France. The
miseries of that unhappy kingdom
verge fad to the extremity of poli
tical distress, that knows no conso
lation save only this, that it cannot
be lasting ; and contemplates the
alternative of quick recovery or
speedy diflolution.
But the ills of this dilmal date of
affairs are not confined to one coun
try or one age—Liberty is wound
ed by her votaries ran mad—the
cause of justice and freedom is hurt
by the injustice of those who only
afiume her name, and whose moral
conduit,unreftaained hpf iioralprin
ciple, coincides exatfjy with brutal
appetite and physical necedity.
From ■rat LONDON GAZETTE, Awn. 9.
HAGUE, April 3.
INTELLIGENCE has been received
from Gen. Clairfayt, dated at Tour
nay the 2d instant, advising that General
Dumourier had that morning sent to him
as prisoners, M. Bournooville, M. Ca
mus, and other Commissioners Who had
been authorifcd by the National Conven
tion to apprehend him, and conduct him
to their bar ; and chat, in a letter which
he at the fam* time wrote to Gen, Clair
fayt, he declared his intention to _march
the next morning with his army for Parrs.
April 6. The re-surrender of Breda,
has com pleated the rapid deliverance of
Holland from the threatened tyranny of
French fraternity. How far the events
of this (hort war may have fuVdued the
spirit of democracy, cannofc.at prefeot be
ascertained. Parties still tnn high, and
both fides speculate at this moment pret
ty freely on the confequeaces which may
flow from the punishment, or mercy that
may be administered to the Dutch revolt
ers now taken in arms. The Prmcefs of
Orange, through the whole of the prcfent
conflict, has judiciously declined appear
ing too forward in the military councils.
Lord Auckland, as British minister, has
conciliated the general refpeft of the con
federate powers, by the wife and decided
measures he proposed, and which he has
had the address to carry rapidly into ef
fe£,maugre the wonted system of Dutch
deliberation ! Gen. Boetzlaar and .his
lovely daughters have been received at
court with every possible mark of esteem.
The Saxe Gotha regiment, the principal
gallant defenders of Williamftadt, have
marched into this garrison on royal duty.
DUMOURIER'4 flight.
BRUSSELS, April 2.
Letter from his Excellency General Clair-
fayt, to MonsieUr Comte Statemberg,
Imperial Minister at the Hague, dated
Tout nay, March 31.
" I lose not a moment in communicat
ing to your Excellency what Dumourier
has just written to me, when he sent to
our camp eight or nine prisoners, this
morning; four of whom, with General
Bournonville, he fays, were specially
commiflioned by the National Conventiort
to arrest and conduct him a prisoner to
their bar ; and, on any resistance on the
part of Dumourier, to have him afiaflin
ated on the road. " But," adds the wri
ter, " I have been before-hand with them,
in securing those commifiioners and their
deputies as my piifoneis." These he has
sent under a itrong escort to the Prince de
Cobouig, after Tiaving put leals to all
their papers, &c.
" M. Dumouricr transmitted n.e at the
fame time a lift of the prisoners, and con
cludes by faying, " that he was that in
itant about to move with the ttufty pait
of his army, in order to destroy those who
may further oppose themselves to the pub
lic good of Fiance, and to give to that
diftrafted kingdom permanent peace and
tranquillity.
" 1 have the honor to be, !cc. &c.
COLbGNE, April 2.
We are, this instant informed, that
Cuftine having marched from Mentz, on
the lft inft. to retake Copenheim, the
two wings of the Prussian' army cut off
his retreat, and he was entirely fuiround
ed with all his army, and it was supposed
he could not escape.
Every thing is ready for the bombard'
ment of Mentz and Caflel, and if the gar.
rifons do not surrender they will be entire
ly destroyed.
BERGEN-OP-ZOOM, April 4.
Intelligence has been received from the
Prince de Saxe Cobourg's head quarters
at Mons, that an armistice had been a
414
irreed upon between his fcrere li.gUeCi
and general Dumourier, the latter hav.ng
previoufiy conferred to evacuate the Aul
trian Netherlands and Dutch Brabant
That general Dumourier set out on the
2d inft. on his mareh to Paris—That his
serene highness had put his troops into
close cantonments, keeping them in im
mediate readiness to aci— That the king
of Prussia had crofled the Rhine at Bu
chera, attacked the French at Bingen,
Creutzenach and Altheim, took general
Neuwinger, 50 officers, 200 non-com
rniffioned officers and privates, 15 cannon
and a military chest, and had formed the
blockade of Mayence ; —That general
Wurmfer, with a Prussian corps, was im
mediately to pass the Rhine at Manheim,
and ad on the left of the king—That
Worms and Oppenheim were evacuated,
and that the enemy bad retreated from
tbofe places towards Landau. These o
perations happened between the 27th of
March and the lit of April.
|>ARIS, April 3.
At length you are ir. possession of the
proceedings of the convention since the
time that all communication ha* been
ftopt between the two countries. I like
wise fend you some account of the pro
ceedings of - the Jacobin Club, and the
Commune, which at this crisis are of con
siderable importance. The clubs, yoa
will fee, now exercise both the legislative
and executive functions of government,
and while they didate to the deliberations
of the Convention, iflue their mandates
with all the imperioufnefs of conflicted
authority. These I accompany with some
little details, which will moie clearly
(hew you the state of facts, and the spi
rit which prevails in this capital.
By some, Dumourier is accused a« a
traitor, and as having acted all along with
views hostile to his country. By others,
his conduct is juftified upon the ground
of necessity, and reprefemed as the only
resource which his present situation allow
ed. He has been publicly threatened
with assassination. In th; club of Cor
deliers, it wasrefolved on the 26th March
that he and the other commanders of the
army (hould be brought to Paris in order
to be tried ; "and if," ct ied some of 1 hose
present, " they escape the tribunal, they
(hall not escape us."
In consequence of an order of the com
mittee of fuperintendance, all the papers
of Roland have been sealed up. He is
accused of being concerned in the confe
deracy with Dumourier.
Oiders of arrest are iffutd against Mef
dames Sillery, Egalite, Lady Fitzgerald j
against Valence, Egalite the younger,
Montjoye, and others, who are officers
under the command of Dumourier.
" CLAIRFAYT."
Danton, the other day, used in the con
vention, a iimile certainly by no means
inapplicable to the present Itate of the
French Legislation. " A great Revo
lution, said he, is like a met3l which boil*
in a furnace ; the statue of Liberty is not
yet founded ; if you do not know how
to manage the furnace, the metal will boil
over and burn you."
The Commissioners of public fafety
have announced to the convention the
discovery ac Chatuilly, of the most valu
able effe&s of the Prince of Conde.—
They have already sent to Paris 2208
marks of gold and lilver. They itate too
that they have found there a vast number
of letters, among which were some from
the late King, the Queen, Madame Eli
zabeth, Neckar, Calonne, Dubarry, &c.
and the secret motives of the expences of
the Red Book, and various articles rela
tive to the Revolution. As it wasfup
pofed that much more remained to be dis
covered, two commissioners were ordered
by the convention to proceed to Chantil
ly. Having rcached the place of their
detlination, they wrote that they had dif
covercd various secret openings in the
walls of the palace, in which were new
made mulkets and ammunition, papers,
and two boxes of jewels. They demand
ed powers to feaich the houses and papers
of variovs persons fufpe&ed of concealing
efFe£tsof the late Prince of Conde. New
commissioners and new powers were sent
to them, with particular inltrudtions to
prefeive the Cabinet of Natural Hiltory.
1 lie confufion which reigns here can
more easily be conceived than described.
We seem to have returned to a Hate of
complete and political chaos. All is tu
mult and disorder. In this situation,
force alone can decide, and difcntangle
the jarring elements. Those however,
whofoiefce a fyeedy conclutkm to the
prefe.it (lalft of diltra&ion, will p' :>i
be miltaken. That order will fpnng ti a
confufion, and fume regular form of g.».
vernment facceed to the present anarchv,
is indeed to be hoped, but not speedily
to be looked for. In proportion to the
violence with which diltra&ion now ragei
must be the time it willrequire to subside.
Before the government can be regenera
ted, and the numerous crimes committed
at the different periods of the Rerolutioa
done away, it must be purified by much
blood. Even fiippofe the war Ihould be
brought to a more speedy cOncluGon than
is at present probable, it will be difficult
to determine in what mode things can be
fettled. There is such a collilion of pat
(ions, prejudices and interests that it mult
be leng before any fettled order ofthing»
can take place. What means indeed will
be found to reconcile the wilhes and adjult
the claims of the different paities, it is
impoflible to forefee.
We now touch on a new sera of a re
solution which has been continually va
rying it« form, and giving life to frefti
changes; a revolution which has iftonilh
ed ordinary observers, by the novelty,
magnitude, and rapid fuccclSon of events;
which has filled with horror the friends
of humanity, by the crimes which it has
produced, and the evils with which it
threatens hnmanity : and which has open
ed a new field of curiosity and fpeculati.
on to the Philosopher, while it baffles e
very effort of teafoning and conje&ure.
SITTING of the JACOBINS.
March 29.
Robefpieire, inveighed bitterly against
a decree pafled on the morning fitting 3.
gainst those who might inltigate to mur
der and pillage. He requested that that
part of the convention, which did not
wish for the public good, migkt be un
mailced, and that they Ihould be deprived
of the power of doing hurt. " Let,
said he, the faithful departments be in
vited to proceed againlt those who are
unfaithful, in order to crulh them. Strike
at length ; (It ike all traitors, and iefpe&
only the national representatives."
March 31.
Marat.—" The dangers which threa
ten our country ate at their height, and
the moment has arrived when the courage
of Republicans ought to be displayed-—•
The treacheries of oui* generals are no
longer a mystery.' My predictions are
accomplished. But we have opened our
• eyes too late. A messenger ha 6 been dis
patched to Dumourier, and I will warrant
that by this time he has emigrated. Bour
nonville has set out to seize all the papers
which may tend to convi& himfelf, and
perhaps to try to march againit Paris with
Dumourier.
Danton in a speech of some length,
recapitulated his former services, in hav
ing prevented the miniltry, of which he
was a member, from leaving Palis in Sep
tember last. He knew Dumourier to be
unprincipled and ambitious ; but he knew
his military talents, and wished to give
his country the benefit of them. But
Dumourier conceived the proje£t of con
quering the Netherlands and Holland, ft
making himfelf their Prote&or. All his
a&ions were infe£led by this idea ; and
if he did not annihilate the Prussians in
the camp of La Lane, it was because he
wished to reserve himfelf an asylum in cafe
of defeat, in the dates of Frederick Wil
liam. His retreat from Belgium was ra
ther the faulc of his inferior officers than
his own. Miranda was a fool or a trai
tor. When Dumourier returned from
Holland to Belgiunl he was quite dejec
ted. The failure of hjs visionary projedU
reduced him almolt to a (late of insanity.
He retained nothing of a Republican but
his military ardour, and fought every 2
leagues. " But, continued the speaker,
let us leave this raving general, and think
only of saving the Republic. France is
far from having lolt her force. Under
Louis XIV. (he combated all Europe,
with resources far inferior. But where
are those resources ? It is for the Jacobins
to find them. It is not enough to have
levied an army of 300,000 men ; we mud
raise a central army to defend Paris, and
succour all the r<;tt. Let the Jacobins
call upon all good citizens, and feleft
those who are the mod capable to defend
their country, and we (hall soon have a
formidable-army. The factious talk of
dissolving the convention ; I cannot bear
the idea of diftolutiun. Let those who
have (hewn themselves too pulillanimous
to join their names to tV'fe wliofe glory
will defcendto posterity, withdraw from
it. Let us engage the people to speak»jnd we-ftiall purge the convention ot those
who are uncapabie of saving the Repub
lic. Those only who have killed a King,
are worthy of representing Republicans.'
Marat.—Dumourier is the creatuie of
a- wicked fadtion. He was at firft their
pupil, and now he is their prote&or. I
fufpedl the Commifiioners Camus and
Treillard. Such men ought not to give
us a report on our (ituation in Belgium.
I request that Danton will tear aside the
veil before the Tribune of the Conven-
tion."
.Danton—l engage to comply with
that request."
Marat—-Aft with energy and courage.
Behave like a true Republican. Do as I
shall do. If the enemy enter France, 1
Jball draw my poinard and fell upon the
traitors. CH ete Marat, drawing a dag
ger from his bosom, brandished it in his
hand.] lam determined to die, usher
than bend the knee. The despair of lit
berty will give me dfeath. I propose that
a considerable number of such arms /hall
be manufactured and given to all- citizens
of known patriotism, who ate not ac
quainted with military evolutions. Let
us set on foot a fubfeription for this pur
pdfe. I myfelf (hall make the firft facri
fice to it." This was adopted, and the
fubfeription agreed to.
•" I denounce Bournonville
St. Jult—'
as a traitor."
April 1.
Roberfpierte made a long speech on the
pon<]t)&-o£-Dumourier, and mentioned
the dangers to which was expos
ed ; but which, he observed,
v.' iij ! appear more glorious after the le
vtre pr loss to which it had been put.—
" H i.ne fueak of giving you a king, said
he, but is it not known tfiat the faireft
1 • :• !:; which bind your brows weie pluc»
k ' the grave of thelaftof the Ca
] ?' ,d cei taioly no one will tear from
y u' m.i'-kof triumph,but with yout *
1- Hv* concluded with moving,that
c.ibeis of the family of Capet,
.'i iiie ci devant nobles and priests,
:pdied. Adopted^
a« w,
fbiiu!
LONDON, April 9.
It was reported on Monday, that ad
miral Gardner, had taken thirty fail of
French Welt-Indiamen. The leport was
received ytftcrday, with the fubftilution
ofadmiial G.ll for admiral Gardner.
I'lie cap"tul*tion of Gertruydenberg
was figncd on the 2d inlh The garrison
to march out with the honours of war,
to carry their provilions, horses, &c.
Captain Manly, of the Syren frigate,
failed from Hdtfoetfltiys on Monday mor
ning. He brings advice, that the French
were totally driven from every of the
United Provinces; in confequcnce of
which all the Britiih troops were proceed
ing with rapid marches thtough Brabant
to join the Prince of Saxe Cobourg; and
that no naval aid being necelfary on the
coafl of Holland, he had withdrawn ail
*» majesty's (hips from thence ; the gun
boats had been all orevioufly laid up io
the arsenal of Rotterdam before he left
h'is (hip.
All the letters brought by the Dutch and
Flanders mails yesterday confirm the accounts
of the declaration of General Dumourier in
lavor of monarchy, and his being on his march
tO . P ! r^ to topport tfrfre-rfftabliftiment of a
regal government in France. The fame let
ten mention'other defeats of the French be
fore Merrtz and at Nitaa. In fliort, the late
twiverfal defeat of the French seems, if p„r.
fible, more rapid than their former iucceiles ;
and the decided part taken by their command,
er in chief, added to the vigorous proceedings
of the Couoter-Revolutionifts in France, ap
pear more likely to be the means of re-efla
bjifhing a permanent form of government in
(hit country.
Ge ieral Dumourier certainly marched on
the 3d for Pars, with the avowed intention
at restoring the Monarchy of France. He
was joined 0.1 hh march bv numbers of peo
ple, who, shocked with the iniquitous mur.
der of Louis the Sixteenth, were now happy
in an opportunity of declaring their fenri
ments.
Previous to Dumourier's quitting Lisle, he
put a white cockade into his hat, and all tho
army fillowed his example, a; fad as ribbons
could be procured f»r them. We nnderftard
that the white flag is flying on the tower of
the garrison at Lisle, in which Dumourier left
a garrison on whom be couy depend.
By every intelligence received from
France, it appears that the general body of
the people on the sea coasts adjacent to Flan
ders, a>e unanimous far having a King.
J he son "f LouisXVl. has been proclaimed
King of the French at Lisle, Valenciennes,
ftnd Douav.
It was understood in the Austrian army,
that all offr-ifive m? a Cures agatrvft France
were to be suspended during the execution of
Dumourier's plan-** proof that the Prince of
Saxe Cuoourg is well allured of bis sincerity*
It is said that ihe city nf Nantes is taken
polTeflion of by the inftn-gen's of Britami).
On Sunday Jafl the 7th inft. a Congress was
to be held at Antwerp, confining of the fol
lowing personages, viz. The Prince of
Orange, the Prince of Saxe Cobourg, his
Royal Highness the Ouke of York, Prince
Frederick of Erunfwick, Lord Aukiand, and
the Ministers of the other powers adtuallv at
war with France. The object of this Con
gress mull evidently have referrence to the
late unexpected events, and probably to con
cert the plan of future operations.
By a French paper of the 2d. it appears
that the Spaniardshave enteied France in two
places near Audaye
Bruffrh Gazette Extrtmrxhmtry. >
" Advice?-are received that General Du
mourier would this day set off with the army
for the interior of"France, in order to restore
peace and tranquility to the kingdom.
" We believe that we (hall give pleafur'e
to our readers, in giving them tlje lift of the
prisoners of war, sent Over-by Dumourier.
Lift of Prisoners.
" Bournonville, General of the army and
minifteer at war ; Memoire, captuin of hus
sars, aid-du-camp of the Minister; Ville
neuve, Secretary Commiifioner of the War-
Office ; Camus, member of the Convention,
Mamarque, Quinette, and Henry Bancai, dit
to—Faucard,Secretary to the Commifiioners.
United States.
CHARLESTON, (S. C.) May 13.
Yesterday evening a gentleman arrived
here from in Georgia, who informs
ns. that fix of tile Creek towns, with a number
of Cherokee*, had declared war against the
United States, and were actually marching
under the command of Bowles and Galptiin,
to attack the frontiers.
An Angnfta jjaper contains the following
intelligence : Augusta, M;i; 4.
We have it now in Our* power, tram the best
authority, to give the following melancholy
particulars to the public, attending the ,mur
d?r of the family 011 the Oconee river, on the
23d ultimo.
The Indians, 37 in number, came to the
house of a Mr. Richard Threlher, and fired
upon and killed Mr. Threlher, two children
and a negro woman ; Mrs.Threflier to avoid,
if pnflihle, the fate with which she was threat
ened, fk-d, with an infant of about 5 or 6
weeks old in her arms, and leaped into the
river—the Indians pursued, (hot her through
each thigh and rigfit breast, dabbed her irt the
left breast with a knife, cut her left arm near
ly off,and then scalped her. In this horrid
fitpatinn (he remained until the neighbours
could aflimble in fufljeient numbers to cross
the river and purine the jndians. As the
i;rft canoe was crossing flie had ftrengthenough
to call for affiflance, they went, found her
hanging by a bush in water nearly up to the
chin, her infant at the bottom of the liver a
fewyards from tier—flie lived nearly 24 hours,
and when informed by her physician that it
was impoflilile for her to furvivesmich longer,
she with a fortitude, that is rarely to be met
with, called her friends around her, and in a
Calm but pathetic manner, gave her hand to
each one, wishing them a better fate than
had befallen herfelf and family ; and when af
ter her speech failed, as neighbours werecon
ftantly coming in, (he continued to give her
hand, until about five minutes before she re
signed he' breath, which was without a groan.
Mrs. Threlher was about 25 years of age,
of a relpeftable family, an elegant person.and
polfeffed an uncommon education.
On Thnrfday the 24th ult. two men were
killed in Franklin, 40 horses carried off; and
since the accounts publiihed in our last, all the
inhabitants on the frontiers have retreated
into forts, without arms or ammunition. At
one meeting of near 40 persons, they could
only muster five old muikets t to heighten she
horror of their condition, the Indiaus were
momently expe&ed.
A* similar murders are daily commitred, it
called upon the spirit oi'Bap gallant fellows,
who matched last week again ft the lavage 1 !,
determined to revenge the cruelties perpe
trated 011 the infant, tiie uiotber, aa4 )tl:o de
fencelefi.
NEWBER N, (N.C.i May..
Died, aih's feat in Aufon count on the 20th
ult. the honofable Samuel Spencer, L. L. D. and
oneot the judge* of the Superior Court of'this
State.
" His honor's health had been declining for
above two yeats, but he performed the last Cir
cuit, three months (ince; and we understand,
intended to have left home in a' few days for
this town, whete the Superior Court is now fit.
ting, had it not been for the following uutorLu
nate accidcnt, which, it is thought, battened his
death He was fitting in his p»axza with a rtd
cap on his head, when a laige cojt turkey palling,
the Judge being (Icepy, began to nod j the tur
k; y mYltaking ihc nodding and the red cap for
a challenge, made so violent arid unexpected an
attack on his honor, that he threw htm out of
his chair on the floor; and before he could get
any aflillance, so beat and brutfed him, that he
died wuhinaiew days alter."
A.LBANY, May 16.
Last week, the hon. Benjamin Line*!*, arte
of the commifitoners for Creating with the
western li.flians, with a number of Qualcer
and other gentlemen in his suite, left this citv,
on his way (by Ofwego and Niagara) to (he
Miami Village, where the treaty is Ihortly to
he held. From Schenedlady, he proceeded by
water, with 8 large battraus which had been
provided for that purpose, and for transport
ing flares, baggage, &c.
415
NEMOEK, May 25.
lii the Sun, of the iotii April, which :s the
latest paper received, the following paragraph
appears •
"•It is ruthouied, that Durnourier having
found reason to l'u'pect the sincerity of a great
part of his army, in the proiuifcs they had
given to fuiijjort him in his plan of marching
to Paris, and placing young Louis 011 the
throne, had left his army at the head of a re
giment of cavalry, and gone to the Aultrian
array. We give this merely as a report ;we
may, however add, that no Oiiicial intelli
gence of any fufli event has been received."
Philadelphia, May 29.
Letter of Citizens Polverel and Sonthonax,
Commiliioners of tha French Republic to
the Windward" Islands, to the Citizen Mi
nister Genet.
Port-au-Prince, May 8/4, 1793,
1 Stconiyear oj the French Republic.
" We feel how elfential it-is, that the Uni
ted States, irtfefled as they are by emigrants
from St. Domingo, should learn the truth of
events thro' the agents of the Republic.
" From the month of January last a new
coalition formed between the chiefs of the
Roya lifts, and of the Rebels, excited for
some time past by the Englito government,
menaccd the interests of the metropolis
Their activity was fucli, that if our preence
in the western province 'iad been delayed ano
ther month, it would have been extremely
dilficult to remedy the evil.
il An army" obtained by the Governor in
chief, Lafalle, encamped at a league's distance
from Port-4u-Prince, on the 9th of April.
We were in, the harbor with a 74 gun fhipand
two frigates. The gates were fbut and ad.
mittance jefufed to the armies of the Repub
lic ; furnacestyeVe erected in the forts to !ie?t
the* balls warn; to be fired on our vejfels.
Having information of the declaration of war
with England, we could not temporize. We
fumnioned the Municipality to receive the
army, the general and us. The rebels re
futed. Having used eve 17 lenient means,
promised fafety and liberty to the friends of
the Republic, granted adelayof24hoursupon
the requelt of some deputies from the town—
a delay which was misused in endeavoring to
corrupt the crew, we gave orders to the (hip
and li igates to fire on the forts. This was
the 12th of April, at fix in the morning ; our
fire was an(V?ved by bombs and red hot lhot.
u The cmiteft lasted fix hours, and only
ceased when we succeeded in silencing the fire
from the town. On the 13th we received a
deputation, who alked another delay
the good citizens time to assemble. We grant
ed it with pleasure, and we received at the
fame time the women and children who were
flying from the town.
" Next day the general was quiet'y re
ceived at the head of his army. We landed
and ordered a number of rebels to be arretted.
The principal chiefs, Borel at their head, had
flown. The fire from the town only killed us
two ijKMiJfttfcv-taflr of the rebel* amounts to
30 at mod ; but what is remarkable is, tbat
our Ihot feeraed to iiugle out tlie mot turbu
lent among thenii such as Borel's nephew,
and 3 or 4 public aiFaffins, known throughout
the ifla/id.
" This day every thing is perfe&ly quiet,
and we h pe that interna! peace will conti
nue, notwithstanding the machinations and
agitations of of France.
" Tell Free Americans, and the Friends of
the Republic, that the colony has at length
fouDd leveFf executors of the laws ; that we
have put to flight the enemies of France—
enemies so much the more dangerous, as un
der the malk of the National Colours, they
made war upon their mother country with its
own weapons. Tell them, that these pre
tended patriots, Borel still at their head, have
just giveji a last proof of their attachment to
the interests of the mother country, by flying
to Jamaica, and throwing themselves into the
arms of the Englifli."
The (hip Grange, some time ago captured
in tlie Bay at Delaware, by the French frigate
l'Embulcatftr, hy been reftorcd to the owners.
By the flip Amiable, Capt. Paul, arrived
here last .Monday from St. Vincent', we learn
thai Admiral Gardner, with fix fail of the
line, arrived before Martinique the 11th inft.
No land forces were 011 board the Ihips, it
being supposed the island would iSVrendcr on
the appearance of an Englilh fleet—but as
General Rochamtieau commanded tlie troops
at Martinique, there wai no doubt of a vigo
rous rcfiftance.
Elbridge Gerry, Kfq. late member of Con
grefsfroni MafTachufetts, is elo&ed Senator
in the Legifl -.tine of that State.
Extract oj a letter dated at New-York, lajl Sunday
morning.
. The ship Alexander is this morning arrived
from Savannah and bring* accounts that the
C'telc Indians, to ihenumberof 5 or £00 had
made b detcehf upon the people of Georgia; and
were within 35 utiles of Savannah."
Th<- follow tag (h iking p*ff*ge is copied from
a Inter written on the -prefeat itate of aifairs in
Europe ;
" 1 hive crafed 4o place reliance on any
w earthly thing, and remain an astonished fpec
-44 r»tor of -ihptyHy of nations a ,jd inaduefs of
44 many Kings! things will end,
44 God wily know*. Many kingdoms in fcu
-44 rope are (h*ken t-o their very foundation.
*' Those wnich purjy themfefvtt may stands
44 those that do not, must fail ; and in their
44 train, luxury, tyranny, and oppression of «vc
i4 Ty krnd; for they tarry the feed* of dc«
41 ftruttion in themfelvea."
Fa\cttevillc GazetU,
Died, yrftcrcUy morning Mrs. ■ House,
who so.*- fcveral years l.«a:> kept a
houfc iu this city.
Department of State,
TO WIT,
I HEREBY Certify all whom it may Con
cern, that I have received an Official COfti
haunication of the Form adopted for Letters of
Marque by the French Republic, of which Form
the following u a Translation. Given under my
Hand and Seal of Q&ce, this 34tb day of Max.
1793.
THOMAS JEFFERSON.
lAberty*~- Equality—
THE Provifionary Executive Council of tl'.e
French Republic, permits* by these presents
to arm and fit out for war, a called,
the burthen tons, or thereabemts,
a<suaily belonging to the Port of • with
such number of g«ns r bullets, quantity of pow*
der, lead and other warlike stores and provisions
as he flnll judge necessary to defend himfelf
againfl pirates, rob ers, rovers, and generally
a gain ft all the enemies of the French Republic,
in what place ioevar he may meet with them,
to take and condu& th«m prisoners, with their
ships, arms and other matters of which they
may be poffeiTed ; Provided by the said
that he govern himfelf according to the inaiine
regulations and ordinances of the leprefentatives
of the French People, particularly the fourth
article ot the Deere# of January 31, refpe&ing
the number of men necessary to make up his
crew, and to cause these present Letters of
Marque to be registered in the Bureau des
Classes at the place from which he (hall fail,
and to depwfit there a lift, Ggned and certified
by himfelf, with the names, fur-names, age place
of birth and abode of the people of his crew,
and upon his return to make report before an
officer employed in the administration of the
Ciafies, of whatever may have happened during
his voyage. The Provifionary Executive Coun
cil requests all people, friends and allies of the
French Republic and their agents-, to render to
the said every afllftance, the free pafiing
and re-palling in their ports, with his said veflel
and the prizes he may have made 4 hereby grant
ing the fame permilUon in frmilar cases. It it
recommended and enjoined to the commanders
of public vessels to fuffer the said to pass
freely with his veflel, and those he may have
taken from the en«my, and to render him eve
ry faccour and afliftance.
Thcfe preicnts not 50 be in force but
for monthsonly .reckoning from the dafe
of their being recorded.
In faith whereof, the Provifionary Executive
Council of the Republic has caused these Let
ters to be figntd by the Minister of Marine,
and the Seal of the Republic to be thereto
affined.
Given at Paris, the. day of one
thousand seven hundred and
and year of French Republic...
{Signed)
By the Minijler of Marine,
(Signed)
COTTRAN.
(Seal.) Except this no Form is vaficT.
A letter Irom Brcft (via Cape-Francois) to •
gentleman in this city, date d the 6th Apri),iay»
that great internal commotions prevail in France,
and that the city of NanLes was besieged by an
army of forty thousand infutgents.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVEDaf(A« PORTO/PHILADELPHIA.
Swain, New-Bedford
Ship Hope,
Amiable, Pan), Li vrrpool & St. Vincents
Brig Newton, Decofta, Sr. Croix
John,
Sch'r. Ann,
Brigg*.
Swett,
Neptune, Cheefman, Bofion
Sloop Richmond, MTonnel, Richmond
Willing Lais, Lille, Beaufort, N. C.
Lncy, Brown, Georgia
Defiance, Wallace, N. Carolina
Kingfifher, Howard,
Snow St. Thomi, Grazer,
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, t sf
3 per Cents, uJ
Deferred, ie\U
Full (hares Bank V. S. Bto to per cent. ad*.
ADVERTISEMENT.
THIS Number or the Gazxtts com*
pleats a year since the commencement of this
4th volume—As the Editor proposes to fq
large the publication at the time of th« neict
meeting of Congress, the jjrefent volume will
be continued till that period, and the paper*
publirtied in the interim, numbered and paged
accordingly.
GENERAL POST-OFFICE,
'Philadelphia, May 27, 1793.
500 Dollars Reward.
WHEREAS a certain THOMAS SLOSS
GANTT, his lately made hi* escape
from Baltimore County Gaol, to which he wax
committed under a charge of having robbed the
EaAern Mail, on thefcftth day of January lad •
Noiice it hereby fciven, that a reward of fi v ?
hundred dollars will be paid at this Office, to
any person or persons who (hall apprehend the
said I homai Slofi Gantt, and deliver him into the
cuflodv of the keeper of the said Gaol, or into
tbeouflody of cither of the Marshals within the
United S-ates, so that the said TAamai Slcfi Gat.lt
may be rffeflually secured, and forth cooling to
answer die above mentioned charge.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Pojl-Majlcr General.
The following is a defcriprioh of the above,
named Thomas Slo»s C-amtt : He it about
Gk feet high, ttrait and well made, has light co
louud liaii, tied behind, fair complexion and
has a dewo look when fpok.cn to.
M O N Y.
Rhode-Iflanft
Marblehead
Bermuda
Madeirj— ■rr ' ' ' ~ DUt. Cti.Dlh. Ctr. j
n d 7 r c r it i? v r <r ° ,If Ditto F ' r cafc , *50
P R I** & ttUKKLril* *-Sw»-et, best, in fl*fks,pr.box 10 50
u vjvaan t 1 ry.—Dollars 100 Ccms each. Ditto baskets, 12 bottles 5
Spermaceti pr. gall. 48 (
PHILADELPHIA, May 29. .Train 24 *7
Whaie 25 33
A Dlls. tij. Dili. its. p„rter pr. cask, 5 33
CTLNCHOttS pr.lb. ? lo j London, pr.dez. *bo
iilum, pr.cyt. 433 J American dmo bot.incl. 1 4 160
Ditio, Roch pr, ii. 11 I Pir ch, pr. bbl. 1 73 2
A(hes, pot, per ton, * 120 jPork, Burlington, per barrel, 14
Pear), 137 , 4° 7| Lower county . »3
Arrack pr. gall. 1 .33 , 1 ,6 j r Cirolina 9
Brandy, common, <>1 Pea %, Albany pr. bushel 73
Coniac *j° ,00 |Pepper, pr. lb. 3^
Braziletto, pr. ton. 3- 34JPimeuto x 9
Bricks, pr. M. 4 ' (Rdifins, best, pr. keg 633
Bread, mip, pr. cwti o Ditto pr.jar 233
Ditto, pilot o {Ditto pr. box « 203
D, tuo, (mall water, per keg 3 6 R, ce pr.cwt. 845
Beer, Am ncan, in Rofln pr . bariel * 78
pr.doz. bottles included, 1 4 Ruin> Jamaica, pr. gallon > "
Ditto pr. barrel, 4 °7 Antieua 1
Boards Cedar pr. M feet, 20 Windward 86
New England 12 >4 Barbadoes 8 7
T l It o I Country, Ni E. 62
Merchantable pine so 4 I
c do. 10 67[Salt petre, pr. cwf. *4 33
Mahogany, perfoot 10 Sall'afras pr. ton 6 8
The above are the (b.iilop price., Shot ditto »4° '4'
for the yard price, add i dol- Steel, German pr.lb. 9
)ar 33 cents per iboo. Engl.(h,bliftered, pr. cwL to
• , f-A American pr. ton * ! 3 33
Brimstone in rolls, pr.cwt. 2 t>7 Crowley's pr. faggot »° t>7
Beef, Boston, pe. barrel is Snake root pr. lb. 20 4 e
— Country ditto 9 S oap, Brown per lb- 6
——Fr< (h, per cwt. 333 4 6 7 White 8
Butter pr. lb. „ Castile 11
,n ke S s n 10 " Starch 7
Candles, Sperm, pr. lb. til Snuff pr. do*, bet. 4 560
ax ~, Spermaceti, refined, pr. lb. 4 8
—• Myrtle Wax M r , c
Mould, tallow 12 Sailcloth,Englifli,No.!.pi'.yard, 30
Dipped# 11 Botton, No. I. ditto 36
Cheese, Engliih, pr. lb. '9 — No ". 35
Country 8 >3 Sugar Lump, pr. lb *i
Chocohte ' ' 8 f Leaf, Tingle refined =4
Cinnamon * 4° 2 6 7 Ditto, double do. 33
ri IWM 1 331 Havannah, white »7 10
Soco,pr.cwt. » — Ditto, brown, M
Coffee pr. It,. >5 '7 -Mufeovado, pr. cwt 13 15
Coal pr. bushel 2 4 33 SpmtsTurpentmeJ>r gallon 7
Copperas pr.cwt. 1 67 Salt Allu.n pr. bulhel 33
Cordage, American, per cwt. 767 8 — Liverpool 3d
Cotton pr. lb. *7 37 —Cadiz *5
Co. rant, 12 Llfbnn
Duck, Ruflia, pr. piecc jShipbuild. W. O. frames p.ton, 1867
——Ravens 11 jDitto Live Oak, 21 33
Dutch fail duck, 20 I Ditto red cedar, per foot 33 4°
Feathers pr. lb- 48 Shingles, 18 inch, per M. 333 367
Flax ditto 11 12 Ditto 2 feet, 6 5° b
Flaxfeed pr. bush. °Pino 3 feet, dressed, >3 15
Flour, Superfine pr. barrel 5 fc? Staves, Pipe p.. 1000 3 2
Common, 533 White Oak hoglhcad, .0 33
Bur middlings, best 447 Red Oak do. >9 .>
Meal, Indian 3 '3 Lcogan 2 ' JJ
ditto Rye, 3 33 Barrel "
Ship-ftuff pr.cwt. . , '4° Heading 2 5 3d
Fustic pr. ton, 20 Skms, Otter, best pr. piece 4b7
. cc 1 -M inks 20 4
Gin, Holland, pr. cafe, 466 4 o 80
Do - Pr.gall. J* 9° I Dltto * rr /
Glu<?, pr.cwt. 2 ° 33 Martins 2 4 1 ,
Ginger, white race, peilb. 7 F,flier.* 33' 67
Ditto, common 71 R ,
Ditto, ground pr. lb. H Racoons «7 60
Ginfeog, 20 4 Mulk-rats '» 20
Gunpowder, cannon, pr. q.calk, 373 i I graver pr lb ®7 '33
Ditto, fine glazed 4 i'n hair ' 20 3°
Grain, Wheat pr. bufl. 1 7 ,s? —Deet.m
Rye oc|Tar,N. Jerfcy, j 4 gal.p. bbl.
Oats 351 Carolina, 32 gall. »
Indian corn 60 Turpentine pr. bbl. 2 3.
Barley 1 1 3| Tobacco, J. River, best 100 ID. 433 I
Best (helled pr. lb. 7 inferior 3 33 |
Buckwheat, per bulh. 4 C I —old 4 7 j
, , nr , iaR fi*»l Rappahannock 3 06 1
Hemp, impo. ted, pr. ton, 12.0 14667 Coloured Maryland, 533 8
American, pr. lb. 4 o\ rwk 2 4°
Herrings, pf-bbl. 3 Long'-leaf 2 4°
Hides, raw pr. lb. 9 Eastern-shore 2 2 '3
JL VI i< Carolina,new 27 3
Hoglhead hoops, pr. M. 15 old? 3 33
Indigo, French per lb. 1 20 1 53 Tea, Hvfon pr. lb. 93 1 2 ®
Carolina 1 1 20 Hvfon lk-n, 53 60
Irons, fad pr. ton, x 33 331 Souchong, 5° 93
Iron, Callings pr. cwt, 3 4 I Congo, 43 <5°
Bar pr.ton, Bohea, 33 3"
Pig . 2 4 Tallow, refined, per lb. 9
Sheet J 73 33rrin pr. box, 13 33 l 3 "7
- -Nail 1 33 Jve«.digreafc lb- 47 &3
Junk, pr.cwt 4 510 Vermilhon, do. <33 tb 7
Lard hogs pr. lb 9 g Varnish, per gallon 33 37
Lead, in pigs pr. cwt. 5 33 s°7|
in bars 7 [Wax, Bees pr. lb. 25 2 7
white 1° 10 6;j Whale-bone, long pr.lb. 13 3°
—red 64° 66 I Wine, Madeira, pr. pipe, 176 226
Leather, foal, pr. lb. 17 2C | Lilbon 120 126
Lignum vitae pr.ton, 0 | Teneriffe, pr. gallon
Logwood 3° I -Fayal 5 2
Mace pr. lb. 9 I Port pr. pipe 113 33
Mackarel, bed or. bbl. 8 | Ditto in bottles,pr.doz. 4
— f cond quality 6 4 j — claret 4 6
' Madder, best pr. lb. t6 2>-J Sherrv pr.gall. 90 120
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, :33 2 67J Malaga 77 80
Mast spars ditto 33
Molasses pr.gall. 44 47
Multard per. lb. J COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
flour, hi bottles, pr.doz. l 2Ci
Nails, Bd. t0,112d. and 2 o d. pi.lb. 1C On London, P" £ ■*<*> «">• 453
Nutmegs pr. lb. ; 8 ,t 90 oays 446
Oil, Linseed, pr. gall. Amftcrdam, 60 days, pr. guilder, 38
— Olive °7| 90 days, 36
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
THESubfcriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SAI E of
STOCKS on COMM ISSION, begslcate to of
fer his Cervices to his friends and others, in the
line ofa Stock Broker. Those who may olcafe
to favor him with the ir business, may depend
upon having it tranf»£led witV the utmoit fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Bofion, or any
other part of the United States, will be ftriftly
attended to.
(t.f.) LEONARD BLEECKER.
Jufl publijhed,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Stone Houjt, No. 41, Soith Secovit-Strret
A S E,
A C
Decided ill the Court of the Unitkb
States, in wliich is difcufled the Question,
WHETHER A STATE IS LIABLE TO BE
SUED BY A PRIVATE CITIZEN OF
ANOTHER STATE ?
Price Half a Dollar.
(£3" War.ird to.cowpleatfiles of this Gazette vurr
bers 79 and 80—Six pencc each mill be paid by the
Editor Jor a jew oj thoje numbers.
416
By THOMAS IOHKoQN, DAVID
STUART,&DANIEL CARROLL,
Esquires,
Commission iki appointed by Government to
prepare the Public Buildings, &c. within the
Ciiy of Wajkingtori, tor the reception of Con
grefj, »nd toi ihcir permanent itrfiiieD<;e after
the ycarißoo—
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City.
50,000 Tickets at 7 dollars, arc 350,000 dollars.
LIST OF PRIZES, viz
1 Superb Hotel, with baths, >
r,m houffs, &c.&c.tocoll S
1 Calh
1 ditto
1 ditto
1 ditto
2 ditto
10 ditto
5,000 are
i,ooo
s°°
ICO
5°
25
20
20 ditto
100 ditto
200 ditto
400 ditto
1,000 ditto
15,000 ditto
16,737 Piiees
33, >63 Blanks
50,000
By this scheme at leajl the amount of the tick
ets will return to the fortunate adventurers, and
yet the federal City will g*i° its object thereby,
in a magnificent building di signed both for pub
lic and private convenience.
Although some expence must ncccffarily at
tend the conducting of the lottery, (which ex
pence w ill be taken from the principal prize) ihe
Commiflioners having agreed to present in re
turn a fufficicnt quantity of excellent frce-ftone,
log.ther with the belt adapted lots for the hotel
and for the 'Ut-houfes, the value of the lottery
entire may be fairly rated a: something more than
par: In this important instance it will be found,
on examination, to exceed all the lotteries that
have ever been offered 10 the Public in this or
pe haps in any other country. The keys of the
Hotel, when compleat, will be delivered to the
fortunate polLffor of the ticket drawn aagainft
its number.—All the other prizes will be paid,
without deduction, in one month after the d) awing, by
the City Treasurer at Washington, or at such
Bank or Banks as may be hereafter announced,
for the conveniency of the fortunate adventurers.
The drawing will commence 011 Monday the
gtfrof Septembet next, at the City of Washing
ton.
Tickets may be had of CoJ. IVm. Dickens, City
Treafurrr of Washington.; Thaler £3 B'rt'ei, of
Charleflon, South-Carolina ; Gideon Denijon, Sa
vannah j MefiVs. James Wefi £3 Co. Balumoie j
Mr. Peter Gilman, Boston"; and at such other
places as will be hereafter published.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given for thebeft Plan of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hoi and cold
Baths, Siables, and other out houses, if presented
on or iejore the iofh tj April next; and a pre
ference will be givfn 10 the Anil} for a Con
trast, provided he be duly qualified to
conipleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be cretfed, will
be a corner lot of about 90 by 200 feet, with a
back avenue to the stable?, &c. Se£tions and
estimates of the expenle will be expected
with the elevations. &c. compleat ; and 50,000
dollars mull be regarded by the Architc6t asthe
utmost limit in the expmfe intrnried lor this
purpose. S. BLODCE I,
Agent for the atfaus of the City
March 6, 1793.
District of Pennsylvania, to wit.
x T> EIT REMEMBERED, That on
(Seal. ) l^e thirteenth djy of March, in
/ the fevemcenth year of the Indepen-
v dence of the United States of America,
Thomas Dobson', of the said D'ftritt, hath de
ported in this Office, the Title of a Book, the
Right whereof he claims as Proprietor, in the
words following, to wit.
** An F77 quiry how Jar the Punijkmentof Death
<4 if necejfary in PennfylvUnia. With Notes and
t* Jl/ujlrations. By William Bradford, Esq.
44 To which is added, art Account of the Gaol and
** Penitentiary Hovfe oj Philadelphia, and of the
44 interior Management thereof. By Caleb
44 '.ownes, vf Philadelphia. 1J we enquire
44 into the Causes of all human Corruptions, we
14 Jhallfind that they proceed from the Impunity
44 of Crrines r and not from the Moderation oj Pu
-44 vijhmtnts Moqtefq.
In conformity to the A£t of tlie Congress of
the United Slates, intituled, 14 An A£l for the
Encouragement of Learning, bv.fecuring 'he
Copies of Maps, Chans and Books, to the Au
thors and Proprietors of such Copies, during the
Times therein mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the Diltrift of Pcnnfylvania.
«r The above work is fold in Charlejlon by
William Price Young ; Richmond, by Archibald
Ctifrie : Baltimore, bv James Rice : New-York,
by Thomas Allen : Bcjlon, by DavidlVeft.
Post-Road
TO THE GENESEE COUNTRY.
THE public are hereby informed, that the
Post-Road from Philadelphia to Reading,
is continued to Sunbury and Northumberland ;
thence up the Weft B r anch of the Sufquchannah
as far as Licoming; thcnce to the Painted Post
(in New-York state, near the foi ks of the Tioga)
thence, to Bath (a town laid out on the Coho&on
Branch of the Tioga) thence to Williamfburg,
at the forks of Genelee River.
Letters for this new route will be sent from
the Philadelphia Poft-Officc every Wedrrcfday
morning, at eight o'clock, with the mail lor
Reading.
A weekly mail will alio be carried from
Bethlehem to WiHkcfbarre, in the county of
Luzerne.
General Pojl-Officc, April 6, 1793.
A January 7 ,h. 1793.
NUMBER of Lois in this City "will oe of
fered for sale ai auction, by the Commif«
fioriers, on the 17th day of September next. —
One fourth part of the purchase money it to be
paid down, the refiduea< three equal annual pay
ments with yearly interefton the whole princi
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk to the Com'rf.
Exiraft of an A6l of the Gt nrral Affcmblv of
Maryl and, concerning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and the City ot Wafbingwin.
4t Be it ena&ed, That any foreigner ma\ by
deed or xvi//, hereafter to be made, take and hold lauds
within that part 0} the JwW Territory which he* with
in this State, in the fame tninner as if he was a citi
zen of this State ; and the fante linds ma> be con
veyed by him % and tranfmitied to and be inherited by
his heirs or relations, as if he and the\ were citizens
of thii State : Provided, That no foreigner fhall y
in virtue hereof be entitled to any further or other
privilege of a citizen
Jan. 19. tf
5 ®,c00
25,000
20,000
I 5, c0 0
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
20,000
150,000
Dollais 350,000
City of Waihington.
Albany Glafs-Houfe.
The Proprietors of the Glafs-Manuiactory, under
the Firm ot.
M'CLALLEN, M'GREGOR and Co.
BEG leave lo inlorm the public, that «hey have
now brought their WINDOW-GLASS to
such pcrfeftion, as will be tound, on companion;
to be equal, in quality, to the bed Loudon
Crown Glass.
Having fixed their piices at a lower rate than
imported, Glass, they arc induced to believe, that
importationsof this articic will be discontinued,
in proportion as their works are extended.—
They propose to enlarge .the scale of lhn busi
ness, and as the success of it will depend on the
patriotic support of the public, they beg leave to
solicit their friendly patronage in the purf'uu of
a branch which will intercft cveiy lover of
American Manufactures.
All orders for Vc'i ndow-Gl ass, of any ftze,
will be received at the Store <of Rhodes and
MacGkfgor, No. 234, Queen-ftteei, New-
York, and at the Glass Warcbo\ife, No. 48,
Maiket-ftreet, Albany, which will be pun&uatly
attended to.
Pr WANTED, fix smart aftivc LADS, not
exceeding 16 vcars of age, to be indruit-d 4%
Apprentices, and regularly inftru&ed in the
various branches of Glata-Making,
Alto, three Wtndow-Glah MAcm, to whom
great encouragement will be given.
May a« »793
PL A N S
OF THE
City of Washington,
Sold by the Booss£i,;,eiis,,
DOBSON, CAREY, YOUNG, & CRUKSH.INK,
JUST PUIS USUI/), ■
By Thomas Dobfon,
Bookfctter, at the Stone-Hsufe, in Second Jti cet,
PHI LutUPKi A,-
V O L O;M E Vill, of
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
or, a DICTIONARY OF ARTS, SCIENCES,
and MISCELLANEOUS LITFRATURE,
On a Plan gvtircly 'new :
8 r WHICH
The Different SCIENCES and ARTS
arc d uelled into the Form of Diftin&,
TREATISES or SYSTEMS:
THIS VOLUME CONTAINS
AN Account of the Cap, of Good Hope,
Grafting, Univerfa] Grammar, Giaffej,
G<eece, Gtecnland, Guam, Guinea, Gunnery,
Happiness, Harmony, Heat, Hcpatic-Air, He
ra Id ty,Hindoftan,Hippopotamus,Hift,ory,Newr
Holland, H<>rfe, Horfcmanfni-p, Hottentots,
Hunting, Husbandry, Hydrometer, with a great
variety of Btooraohical and Miscellaneous Arti
cles. Embellished with ftxtern Copperplates.
CONDITIONS.
I. The- work is printing on a fupe»fine paper*
and new types, (cast for the pmpofc) which
will be occefionelljr renewed before they coii
traft a worn appearance.
11. The work is furoifbed in hoards, in volumel
or haif-volumes, as fublcribe- s chuff; the prifC
o\ the whole Volumes, five dollars each, ot the
halt-volumes two dollai» and two-: birds oi a
dollar each. Ten dollars to he paid on fub
fcribmg, the volumes or half-volumes fini fhed
to be paid for when delivered, the price of one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each fucceedi.ng volume to be p*:d on deliver
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
work will be delivered uniefs paid for.
111. In the comfe of the publication will be de
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia: which by
tar exceed in number those given in any other
fcientific dictionary. At the close of the pub
lication will be delivered an elegant frontif
piece, the dedication, piefacc, and proper ti
tle pages for the different volumes,
It is expe&ed the work will be comprised in
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
IT As fever al gentlemen who have honored this
undertaking with early fubfc*iption s. have only re
ceived a jmali part oj the work, they are earnefty
requeued to complete their fas, as jar as publijhed,
immediately, while tjie publijher Jlill has it in his
power to fuppiy them with the j>a*ts which ha ye not
been furnijned. As the fubjeri'ption will very pojfi
bly be cloj'ed by the firji oj Jalv next, the pub![pur
cannot undertake to complete jets alter that period;
and those who zvijfy to become poJJejfors of this truly
valuable and important work, toil! pJeaJe apply be fort
the expiration o] that time, that they may not be dif
appom led.
The very heavy ex pence necrjfanly inevrred in csr
ryirg on this work, makes it indifpenfabiy requifitt
for the pubhfher to adhere more Jtrifllythur he hat
done to the original condition, of delivering the vo
lumes onh on being paid for them,
April 6. l 703,
The price of tins Gazette is Three Do'l&n
per annvm— One h«/J to be paid at the tinu offui
fcribing.
epi2w
rpim