A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY }OHN FENNO, No. 34, NORTH FIFTH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 93 of Vol. IV.]
LAW OF THE UNION.
SECOND
CONGRESS OP THE UNITED STATES,
At THE SECOND SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Philadelphia,
in the State of Pennsylvania, on Monday
the fifth of November, one tboufand
fcven hundred and ninety-two-
AN,ACT to promote the progress
of ufeful Arts, and to repeal the
a<ft heretofore made for that pur
pose.
BE it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of
America, in Congress aflembled. That when
any person or persons, being a citizen or citi
zens ofthe United States, fliall alledge that
he or they have invented any new and ufeful
art, machine, manufacture or composition of
matter, or any new and ufeful improvement
on any art, machine, manufacture or compo
fitkin of matter, not known or used before the
application, and shall present a petition to the
Secretary 6f State, fignifying a desire of ob
taining all exclusive property in the fame, and
praying that a patent may be granted there
for, it shall and may be lawful for the said Se
cretary of State, to cause letters patent to be
made out in the name of the United States,
bearing telle by the President of the United
States, reciting the allegations and sugges
tions of the said petition, and giving a Ihort
description ofthe said invention or difcoverv,
add thereupon granting to such petitioier,
•r petitioners, his, her, or their heirj, ad.
miniftratarsor ajligns, for a term not exceed
ing fourteen years, t!;e full and exclnfive
right and liberty of making, conftrufting,iifing,
and vending to others to be used, the said in
vention or discovery, which letters patent
fliall be delivered to the Attorney-Gereral of
the United States, to be examined ; who,
within fifteen days after such delivery, if he
finds the fame conformable to this ast, fliall
certify accordingly, at the foot thereof, and
rttnrn the fame to the Secretary of State,
who (hall present the letters patent thus cer
tified, to be (igned, and (hall cause the seal of
the United States to be thereto affixed : and
tl»e fame (hall be good and available to' the
grantee or grantees, by force of this ast, and
fliall be recorded in a book, to be kept for
tffat purpose, in the office of the Secretary of
State, and delivered to the patentee or his
order.
Provided always, and be it further enabl
ed, That any person,. who (hall have tfifco
vered an improvement in the principle of any
machine, or in the process of any composition
of matter, which (hall have been patented, and
fliall have obtained a patent for such improve
ment, he Ihall not be ar liberty to make, use
or vend the original difcovety, nor (hall the
firft inventor be at liberty to ulb the improve
ment ' Anrf-it is hereby enaftekl and declared,
that (imply changing the form or the propor
tions of any machine, or composition of mat
ter, in any degree, lhall not be deemed a di r
covery.
And be it further enacted, "That every in
ventor, before lie can receive a patent, (hath
swear or affirm, that he does verilv believe,
that he is the true inventor or dilioverer of
the art, machine, of improvement, for which
he solicits a patent, which oath or affirma
tion may be made before any person, author
ized to adininifter oaths, and (hall deliver a
written description of hi* invention, and of
the manner of using, or process ot compound
ing the fame, in such full, clear and exact
terms, as to diftingnilh the fame from all
other things before known; and to enabte any
person (killed in the art or' fc'fence, of which
it is a branch, or with which it is most nearly
connected, to make, compound, and use the
fame. And in the cafe of any machine, he
fliall fullv explain the principle, and the se
veral mode*, in which he has contemplated
the application of that principle or character,
by which it may be diftingutlhed frofii-other
inventions; and he fliall accompany the whole
with drawings and written references, where
the namne of the cafe admits of drawings, or
with fpecintens of the ingredients, and of the
composition of nmter, fufficient in quantity
for the purpnfe of experiment, where the in
vention is of a composition of matter ; which
description, signed by himfclfand attested by
two witnelles, fliall be filed in the office of the
Secretii'y of State, and certified copies theie
Saturday, 20, 1795.
of shall be competent evidence, in all courts*
where any matter or tbinjg, touching such par,
tent-right, shall cftine in question. And ftich
inventor {hall, moreover, deliver a mode! of
his machine, provided, the Secretary shall
deem such model to be neceflary.
And be it further enacted, That it fha 11 be
lawful for every inventor, his executor or
Administrator to aflign the title and interest
of the said invention, at any time, and the
assignee liavin; recorded the said alignment,
in the oifice of the Secretary of State, shall .
thereafter (land in the pJaee of the original
inventor, both as to right and responsibility
and so thfe assignees of afllgns, to any degree.
And be it further ena&ed, That if any
person shall make, devise and use, or (ell the
thing so invented, the exclusive right of which
shall, as aforefaid, have been lecuredtoany
person by patent, without the consent of the
patentee, his executors, adniiniftrators or
assigns, fir ft obtained in writing, every per
son, so offending, fh'ali forfeit and pay to the
patentee, a fuivi, that shall be at leatt equal
to three times the price, for which the pa
tentee has ufualiy fold or lleenfed toother
persons, the use of the said invention ; which
may be recovered in an a&ion on the cafe
founded on this a<st, in the circuit court of
the United States, or aily other court havihg
competent jorifdiftion.
Provided always, and be it further enact
ed, That the defendant in such a&ion shall
be permitted to plead the general issue, and
give this aand any special matter, of which
notice in writing may have been given to the
plainfcilTor his attoriney, thirty days before
trial, in evidence, tending to prove, that the
fpecification, filed by the plaintiff, does liot
not contain the whole truth relative to his
discovery, or that it contains more than is
neceffury to produce the described eiTeft,
which concealment or addition shall fully ap
pear to have been made, for the purpose of
deceiving; the public, or that the thing, thus
secured by patent, was not originally disco
vered by the patentee, but had been ip use, or
had been described in some public work, an
terior to the supposed discovery of the paten
tee or that he had surreptitiously obtained a
patent for the discovery of another person :
in either of which cases, judgment fliall.be
rendered for the defendant, with costs, and
the patent shall be declared void.
And be it further enabled, That where any
State, before its adoption of the present form
of government, shall have granted an exclu
sive right to any invention, the party,claim
ing that right, shall not be capable of obtain
ing an exclusive right under this act, but on
relinquifhiug his right under such particular
State, and of such relinquifhment, his obtain
ing an extlufive right undfrr this ast shall be
fufficient e video ce.
And be it further enacted, That the per
sons, whose applications for patents, were,
at the time of palling this ast, depending be
fore the Secretary ofState, Secretary at War,
and Attorney-General, according to the ast,
palfed the fetond l'effion of the firft Congress,
intituled, " An ast to promote tbe progress
of ufeful arts," on complying with the con
ditions of this ast, and paying the fees herein
required, may pursue their reipeftive claims
to a patent under the fame.
And be it further enacted, That in cafe
of interfering applications, tbe fame (hall be
fubmitteri to the arbitration of three persons,
one of whom ihall be chosen by each of the ap
plicants,and the third person lliall be appoint
ed by the Secretary of State ; and the decision
or award offuch arbitrators,delivered to the
Secretary of State, in writing and fubferibed
by them, or any two of them, lhall be final,
as far as refpefts the granting of the patent :
And ifeither of the applicants fliall refufe or
fail to cbufe an arbitrator, the patent (hall
ilTue to the opposite party. And where there
(hall be more than two interfering applica
tions, and the parties applying (hall not all
unite in appointing three arbitrators, it lhall
be in the power of the Secretary of State to
appoint three arbitrators for tbe purpose.
And be it further ena&ed, That upon oath
or affirmation being made, before the judge
of the diftrift court, where the patentee, his
executors, administrators or assigns reiide,
that any patent, which thai] be ilTued in puv
fuance of this ast, was obtained furrepti
tiouflv, or upon falfe fuggeftien, and motion
made to the said court, within three years af
ter illuing the said patent,but not afterwards,
it (hall and may be lawful for the judge of
the said diftrift court, if the matter alledged
lhall appear to him to be fufficient, to grant
a rule, that the patentee, or his executor,
ad:niniftrator or aflign (hew cause, why pro
cess should not ifTue against him to repeal
such patent. And if fufficient cause lhall not
be (hewn to the contrary, the rule (hall b«
made absolute, and thereupon the said judge
(hull order process to be iflued against such
patentee, or bis executor;, administrators
oralTigm, with cods of suit. And in cafe,
no fufficient ciufe (hall be lhewn to the con
trary, or if it fiia.ll appear, that the patentee
was not the true inventor or discoverer, judg
ment (ball be rendered by such court for the
369
repeal of such patent; and if the party, at
wtyofe complaint, the process ilTiied, fliall ha.ve J
judgment given against him, he (hall pay all
iufh enfts, as the defendant (hall be put to,
in defending the fuit,to be taxed by the court,
and recovered in due course of law.
And be it further enacted, That every in
ventor, be I ore he presents his petitiqn to the
Secretary of State, fignifying his desire ot ob
taining a patent, lhali pay into the Treasury
thirty dbllars, for which he (hall take dupli
cate rectipts ; dnS of which receipts he (hall
deliver to the Secretary of Stjite, when he
presents his petition : and the money, thus
paid, (hall be in full fat the sundry fetvices,
to pe performed iu the office of the Secretary
of Stare, consequent pn futjh petition, and
(hall pass to the account of clerk-hirj in that
office. Provided lieverthelefs, That for eve
ry copy, which may be required at the said
office, of ftny paper lefpefting any patent,
thit has been granted, the person, obtaining
Airifcopy, (hall pay, at the rate of twenty
cents, for eveiy copy sheet of one hundred
and for every cop) of a drawing, the
obtaining the fame, lfialT pay two <fol
jars: of which payments, an account (hall be
rendered, annually, to the Treasury of the
United States, and they (hail also pass to the
account of clerk-hire in the office of the Se
ctary of State.
And be it further cnafted, That the ast,
parted the tenth day of April, in the year one
thousand seven hundred and ninety, intituled,
" An ast to promote the pmgrefs of ufefu!
arts," he, and the fame is hereby repealed.
Provided always, That nothing, contained
in this ast, (hall be construed to invalidate any
patent, that may have been granted under
the authority of the said ast; and alt patentees
under the said ast, their executprt, adminis
trators and assigns, (hall be considered within
the purview of this ast, in refpeft to the vio
lation of their rights : provided, such viola
tion; (hall be committed, after the palling of
this act.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, ShcaJtn
oj the Houjeof Rcprefcniativa.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-frefi4tr.t of tfte
, United. States, and Pref'dent of the Senate.
OVE$j jFJEBRU AR Y 21 f. V7Q3»-
GF.O. WASHINGTON,
Prejident of the United Stales.
V V't
[The following has been postponed some time
for -want of room.]
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
Mr. Pen no,
I H AVE just received and read your paper of
Wednesday, and am very happy to find that
lo large a majority of the late Congress, have
pronounced i.bc official conduit of-the Secretary
of the TrCafury, to be clear of blame. Feeling
it to be not only a privilege, but an important
duty, for citizen# to comrmmicate to each other
their fentimcnts on public men and meafiires, I
shall take-the liberty of stating to yod some re
flexions on what has recently taken place at the
feat of government.
It ill robe hoped that there is a good intention
with many, in the ftriflures which have been
made on the Secretary's conduct, and in rhe op
pofitipn to those measures which are said to be
indebted to him chitfly for their exigence.—
Whatever may be the furmifesof unsound f/rin
ciples and corrupt morals in some who are en
gaged in this oppofiiion—in others, f am for
myfelf fatisfied there is the purest virtue; and
tiro' I tremble at their political principles as
endangering the happiness of my country, vet I
revere the motives by which they are prompted
to opppfe. Indeed I have been grieved that bad
design has been indiscriminately attributed to
all who have condemned tbofe federal measures,
which, to such as think like myfelf on thefefub-
j ests, appear efTential to the dignity, honor and'
prosperity of out land. The asperity too, with
which those have been treated, who may justly
be fufpefted of political hypocrisy—os usurping,
and alas! of having the name of patriots, while
they know nol thf elevated temper and delicious
fenlations of patriotism, was no small impru
dAice. These charaftcis have, by this means,
been too highly irritated ; their evil disposi
tions, but the wore inflamed, and, like air once
fixed now rendered vigorous by heat, have burnt
with violence, and have found vent in the most
iinjuflifiahle condemnation of the proceedings of
and in groundlefi, aspersions of the
mofl valuable fervan's of the publie. While it
is right, yea an incumbent duty which we owe
to ourfclves and our dear posterity, to stem the
torrent Of antifedcral opposition, let us do it
with thcjd.ignity, coolness and candour, which
belong to truih and ensure success. In taking
up my pen, I would fain excite no one painful
sensation in the bread of any citizen of the Uni
ted States. Unless it were absolutely neceflary,
I woukL not even call up that indignation we ail
feel against hypocritical profeflions of the amor
patriae, and the deadly projefi* of party and
ptrfonal profit. If it could be done, I would
cool the minds of all—l cleanfe;the foul
heamoi those who care not toi'thc happinefsof
Others, «nd of ihoufarid* yH »«nl>nn)—l would
infufc into all Americans a render love to one
another, as brethren of one fatnity*—l~would
AVw- Jerfcy, March, 1793.
[Whole NO. 4X
bring iliem to embrace Wuh unfeigned finer*ky
— and I would thus cefvfcrtl. our union, and ptr
petuai< oar glo'v ami our fojif*. thcfC
tlringVare out of re a fan to < xpett, yei.H is p leaf
ing t© iniaj;? l tiicm to the-mint). But who on
help lamenting, that man-is himfclf his £reat< ft
enemy, and tver mitt ft-ands in ihc *yay of h,'s
own good. '1 urn.ing, but with reluctance, frpin,
what one would wish, to whal may be reasona
bly looked for. I (hall make lame remai ks in
order to correct the violence of and
to guard my countrymen against unwarily join
ing in it.
Who can examine rhe official chara£ler of the
Secretary of the Treasury, obfrrve his indefatiga
ble industry in the service of his country, the
order, accuracy and perfettion in whicbhe per
forms the weighty bufincfs of his depftttmQnjt,
without cordial approbation ? Can any one djf
cern the least back wardnefs or delay in exposing
to the view of the public all his financial pro
ceedings, even thc-mod mirujie ? Mas there not
been the utmost. promptitude of obediencejto the
rcquifitions of C»»ngrefs, direlied so this pojnt ?
Tho' by tfre Conftiturron, f* a regular ftneincm
and a coimt qftb? receipt? and expenditures df
atf public money, shall be publiAv d, from time
to time \et is it not the duty of Congre'fs firft
to give direction for the drawing up and pu.b
lifhing of this ftatrment and account? This ar
ticle is fnund in the midst of the pf> weir's gUeh
to, and the rrftrxftton* laid on Goiigtefs. It :s
therefore, in fa£l, a part of the general duly
sketched out to Congi fsin the Conftituupu.
reducing this and oiher conflitutional principles
to pra6Vice. ihe SeCtetiry is only as th£ instru
ment in the workman's hand. As the work
man must will and mov;, before the inllr um r.|t
cau execute any thing, so, if this article is to
complied with in all its spirit, arid in .its furtheft
extent, to Cdngrefs'it belongs to will the com
pliance. Then, and riot till then, is the Secre
tary to be blamed, when he is deficient irv com
plying with Congtelliona! injitnQions. Thi •, J
believe, he never has been. In every iuftance
within my knowledge, he has done all which
Cdngrefs has enjoined. Here then let me afit,
was it kind to impute, not in a private convcr
fation* but on the floor of Congress, that i.«, in
the hearing of all A met icaand of all Europe—
w'aS it kind to '.mpute a partial ftatemcnt of rc
ceipts and expenditures, when rib more hid been
required by Congress, to »o infamous defrgn of
defrauding the public ?* Was it not irrjiptu<tcf ( t
at the leaft r upon so flight, and as we have now
seen, upon no foundation* to proclaim to all the
world that corruption wa< already preying upon
the vitals of oor coun'ry? Are not for wardnefs
and ralbuefs the lowcft charges which we must
brin</ against luch as have spread an alarm in the
land, from mifcor.ceptions of the Secretary's re
ports, from a fuperficia! understanding of the
fuhjc&s of" which they treat, and, tho* lawgivers,
from an, a£hia! ignorance of, or as fcandalons
inattention to, the nature of the laws? WelJ
might th.r Seer. f»ry fay, «• I forbear to attempt
to trace the fouice ot a raiftakc so extraordinary. **
Indeed* in my opinion, he has tl fliown,'arvdi
that in a confpicuons manner, fallacies enough
in the statement, from which the inference of
an unaccounted forbafance was drawn, to evince
that it is one ti/fue of error.* 1
I do not fay there was malic*, and a delibe
rate wicked design in.the mover of the la«e in
vestigations : this is very far from me, ar\d $
heartily disapprove os-such insinuations without
full proof. Our thwarted in wh.it we
suppose neccffairy to t)ie public good, Ihould not
make us call our opuofers scoundrels. This is
very wrong. Yet I must confefs. some things
force us to hatd thoughts ; and the proposal to
defer thr omiftd. ration of certain resolutions to
the next Congress. so fhockcd me, as almotl
made my ftrugglm;/ good hopes of some antife*
deral patriots, givoup she ghost.
On the whole, I am free in obftrving that
there was evident ignorance and ralhnefs in the
accufatioos so publicly made against the Secre
tary of the Treasury ; and I was most hcartilyr
rejoiced to fee the relult—*in his coming forth
from the furnace, as gold, more valuable and,
more blight in the public estimation.
I was rejoiced, because Congress have solemn
ly averred to the whole Union, that the appre
hended corruption is not to be found.
it not be a grievous calamity, an awful presage
of the ruin of our country, if so soon, the pure
region we live in had produced monsters to de
vour the land, to ercft the deftru&ivc banners of
aristocracy, and gather around them all that host
of citizens who now relv on the justice and ho
nour of government ? When no such monsters.
are found, when cxiftcnce is given to them only
by the exceflive jealousy of a too highly fer
mented patriotism in some, and by bafenef* ir\
others—every friend to his country must hear*
lily rejoice.
I rrjoiee moreover to -fee so l«rgc a portion of
the mrml>CT> of Congrpfj espousing federal prio>
epics, tad difcounteninci'ng that fxtreffie j#a-
Ihofe dilorfriniiiogc*| r j,vaj<»i, t <ktnf>*
cratic principlej, which, if not checked, woa!4
prove ihe ruin of this c iny other nation.'
(To be concluded in our next.)
* And when the Secretary feemei difpofedfpon
aneovjly to ad up to the spirit of the aforemen
tioned article of the Conflitution —when he did more
towards it, in his reports to the House, than Congrtfs
had demanded—how egregiouflv ur,candid and cruel
to him, how a fronting and injurious to every wrtu
out member of our Republic, is the tvfidwus use
which Franklin [a late writer} hai vuvle vf the
Secretary's upright m.d voluntary difcioiure.Foreign Intelligence.
PARIS, February ! i
AS the opening of the campaign
appi ouches, our attention is
tui tied Ir»»ni our internal, aiiiiiiij.i
fits to the external enemy. Ihe
molt vigorous cfiorts to reciuit ihc
army aie making both by the mini!-
tet J anxl by individuals.
The committee of legislation pro
poled this morning, that thole per
sons in cuttody for being engaged in
infurrec'tions on account of ilie dear
liels of provisions, Ihould he rele,if
ed. After fotne debate, the Conven
tion dec;eed a general atnnelly tot
all olfences of this dfcfcription previ
ous to the execution ot the laic
King, murder and burning houses
onl^Texcepted. Merlin obtained an
exysnfion of the amnesty to all of
fences committed in oppoluioti to
claims of feudal tights.
The Corvention is now debating
the plan of the Military Comi)wt,ec
for recruttiug and nationalizing the
army—that is, putting an end to all
distinction between troops of the
line and volunteers. Both Pache
and Rolautl are talkrd ot for the
Mayoralty. The former is Said to
have obtained a majority ot the votes
in feveial Sections
The citizens of Marseilles have
made a contribution in Specie of a
million of iivres for the Support of
the war.
We are flattered with hopes that
none of Latouche's Squadron foun
dered in the Mediterranean ; that
mod of the Ships and tranfpons have
joined Truguet ; and that the ob
ject of the expedition, the conqtieft
of Sardinia, will soon be atcliieved.
We have a report that Dubucand
C lairfontaine, agents from Martini
co ami Guadaloupe, have concluded
an agreement with the Britiih mi
nistry, for putting those illands un
der the protection of Great-Britain,
in trull for Louis XVII. and that
Bouille is to be furnifhed with trans
ports, atid a convoy to carry 8000
emigrants to Sr. Domingo, where
he is to allume the title of Governor
General of the Fretich Weft India
Colonies.
COPENHAGEN, Jan. 3
By a royal editft of the 7th of No
vember, 1792, the trade with the
Danish feu lenients upon the coast
of Guinea, is declared to be fiee to
all nations whaifoever, without ex
ception, trading in foreign built
ftiips, and without any restraint re
fpe«fting the articles of importation
or exportation, including negroes. :
it being understood, however, that
these (hall not be exported till the
end of the year 1802, conformable
to the decree of the 16th of March,
1792 : Audit is ordered, that, for
the maintenance of the forts, there
ihall in the mean time, be paid for
every male or female negro, ex
ported from the f.iid fettletnems,
and d-eftined for the Danifli and o
ther colonies, the fuui of ten crowns
currency of Derimatk. The half
of this duty Ihallj however, be re
mitted on each female negro im
ported into the Danish Well India
islands, upon the produiftion of the
certificate of such female negro
having been exported from the Da
nish settlement 011 the coafl of Gui
nea, and of -the duty on exportation
having been duly paid.
AMSTERDAM, Keb. 13,
It is easy for an occafio»>al refi
tlent to discover the prevailing anx
iety of all ranks of people in this
. capital. An enemy is at the gates
of the Republic, who, without -any
provocation from the government
or from individuals, Without any
' ground of jealoufyor apprehension,
and contrary to what that enemy
has declared, and preached, and
sworn, is now-menacing its very vi
tals ; and, under the pretext of
peace and good-will to tn?n, bring
ing thousands of unprincipled va
gabonds to fpresd desolation among
en honed, indullrious people, and
attfewpt the overthrow of that Con
ftitotlon fi»r which whole generati-
ons w ere born,and lived,and fought,
and died hi war, ay>d which they
wow enjiSy every poflible i'ecu
rity and comfort. Those who were
generally called Patriots in the Se
veil Provinces, are not delirous ot ■
feeing an enemy that knows ot no
The views of thole
Patriots, *re to narrow the bottom
of Arilloct acy, and of Magistracy,
by confining places and pu»er to
their own families. The influence
of the Prince of Orange Ipreads
those places, and that power among
a greater number : the Ft eiich
make it wider Hill,and leave ilie Pa
triot* no more of either thanVoiild
be granted to thole who are now
employed in the Rasp hotrfe. itie
frontier towns ate but inadequately
garrisoned. Maeltricht is the molt
cxpofed, and it is the bell defended.
1 am told liue Hague gariilim, is lo
march to morrow foi Breda, and
that the army begins to incieafc by
the success of the recruiting service.
Letters are just received here to
inform a number ot the principal
houses, that the Duke Frederick of
Brunfwick is arrived at Venloo,and
has taken poUeffion oftliat garrif'on
with 6000 PrtilfianS. 1 his newp
gives great farisfadtion, as Venloo
was dtfencelefs, and is only a few
miles from Maeltricht, commanding
the lame river. The lame intelli
gence adds, that M. de Clairfait is
informed of this advance of the
Prultians, and will immediately let
,tle with the Prince Frederick furnie
early plan of attack.
The natural defence of Holland
is at the fame time applied to. Great
tratfis of the lands of thegeneralty
are under water ; and it is said that
precautions are taken on the rivers
and the different Itrairs in Zealand.
On the other hand, it is well
known, that the Dutch, who have
been expatriated since the year 1757,
are afletnbled at Antwerp, where
they are formed into a legion, call
ed the Dutch Legion, composed,
however, of whatever they can get
into it, as well as of the native dif
concents. Tliefe men who biought
their country to the edge of ruin,
and beyond the edge of difgrace,by
their dilputes, and mode of lett Ting
those disputes with the Emperor Jo
seph in 1784; these men are now
panting to introduce a mqft
otis and unfatiable enemy into t,he
heart of their mother country ;
these are all acftir.g under the nod
of Dumourier, and forget that he
has thousands of armed Frenchmen,
to whom he can alio diciate, and
who will not be fatisfied with the
mere fight of the riches of Holland.
LONDON, Feb. 18
The militia in Ireland are to be
16,000, viz. a regiment of joo for
each county. The Majors, as well
as adjutants, ate to be couftatuly in
pay. . , .
Six 38 gun frigates, to be built in
the river, were contra<fted for on
Thursday last by the Cotnniiflioners
of the Navy,
The military eftablifliment for
I 793 will be the greatest ever raised,
in Ireland by a vqi.e of Parliament,,
since the landing of Henry M. up
wards of 20,000 regulars, and a mi
litia which will amount to 16,000 ;
making in all an army of 36,000 men.
The port-office packets pass, as
usual, from Dover to Calais ; and
other paflage boats will soon.
The Prussian army are fuffering
dreadfully by the want of forage.—
The country, foi fifty miles, ou this
fide of Coblentz, is nearly covered
with their dead horses.
The late unfortunate Louis XVI.
was the firfl King that humanely in
terposed, and released his fubjetfts
from abjeiS slavery. In the year
1788, he totally aboliflied the pu
nilhment of torture, which was in
practice there from the earliest ages.
He also allotted Council to all cri
minals, being the firft indulgence,
ever granted them ; anclordaitied,
that 110 sentence of death be pafled
on any person, except found guiliy
by two thirds of his judges, altbo'
a majority of one judge was to ac
quit. Besides these acfts of clemen
cy, to (hew his difintereftediiefs,
and to destroy all temptation of
perverting justice, he decreed that
no forfeiture, in cafe the accused
was found guilty, lhould take place,
but from the day of sentence, and
not from the day on which the crime
370
was committed. 11l fated Monarch .
whose firlt and principal care was
the relloring the freedom, encreaf
ing the wealth, and easing the bur
thens of his fubjtifts, and who in re
turn, in the course of four years,,
was not only reviled,- periecuted,
and imprisoned, but at lalt brought
to an untimely death —A lamenta
ble instance of the instability of all
human gieatnefs! and an example
to teach us with what contempt and
disregard we (hould behold all the
pomps aud vanities of ibis uncertain
life.
Frb. 21. Monf. Pelitier, in his late
picture of Paris, fays, England is
the only power that has effectually
attacked France. Armies will have
little force, unless they are preced
ed by measures capable of weaken
ing ilie monster which is to be van
quished, and England alone has de-
Icribed the true place in which it
was vulnerable. War mull be de
clared against the alfignats : those
aflignats with which the patriots
have hitherto bought corn, iron,
gold, and the secrets of their ene
mies, & with which they would buy
their enemies themselves ; it from
one extremity of Europe to the o
ther, they were totally proscribed,
if all communication was intercept
ed from Archangel to Malta, the
Republic would have neither a sack
of corn, nor a horse, nor an ox, nor
a cannon ball, and certainly before
the expiration of fix months, the
three millions of armed Republi
cans, bnried in an ocean ot paper
and murmurs, would fall at the teet
of the coalesced powers, and give
up their arms for a morsel of bread.
LIVERPOOL, Feb. 16
A curious effigy of Paine the li
beller, was prepared at Wigan, on
Monday 1 alt, and lodged in the pri
son under a gU:ird of two armed
men. On Tuesday morning he was
brought out in a cart, attended by
a mock clerical/and taken to Scholes,
where the belt post he meritted was
ready to receive him. He was tucked
up for about two hours, afterwhich
he was taken down and thrown in
to a fire, prepared for the purpose.
The procession was attended by
Capt. Stanley, and his new raised
coil)pany of volunteers—who joined
the populace in shewing their con
tempt for a cliaraiSerfo highly wor
thy the detestation the people of
this kingdom have so generally
(lie wll hiin.
The above circumstance will be a
severe shock to the tender feelings
of a brother editor in another coun
try, whose powers offenfibility have
been so frequently wounded on fi
milaroccafions. We mean the man,
who ridicules the idea of f'orrow for
the death of the French king—yet
almost breaks his heart with grief
and indignation at the mere report
of his dear Paine being hung in ef
figy-
For some time it has been the fa
fhion with our Liverpool ladies, to
wear poppy coloured or dark red
ribbands. But let them consider
that the female savages of France,
at this time wear the fame colour,
and call it the blood of Louis. Then
in abhorrence of French barbarity,
let our Englilh ladies throw off with
contempt thofo colours which are
worn to distinguish the enemies of
royalty and the levers of human
blood.
In the Exeter flying poll of Thurs
day last, an umbrella maker, of the
name of Driver, concludes his ad
vertisement by faying, " It will be
ulelefs for any person to apply to
hi in for umbrellas, oil-cases, cloaks,
&c. but such as are friends to our
excellent king and glorious consti
tution j as he is determined not to
be the means of flickering thole
from the inclemency of the weather,
wbofe pernicious principles would
expose the happiest nation in the
woild to the hideous (lonnsof anar
chy, confufion, insurrection, devaf
lation, ruin, and murder."
Paine's speech on the question of
the French king's being put to
death, is said to he the molt humane
of any in the convention ; which
(hews that the molt mischievous,.
treacherous, and bad man in En
gland, appears to be the .bed man
in France.
Domestic Articles.
ALEXANDRIA, (Vjr.) April 10 .
We have good authority to in.
for." tl.e public, that boats are dai
y palling on Hotowmac from Cum
be. land,and the intermediate space
Kails and the mouth of
alt s> dranch, with flour and other
produce; there have already been
4000 bartfeh landed at the
t ails, and 300 c bui rels at lenft Ui>d
ed at Watt's branch, this lealon ,
that William's port, h is become the
place o 1 depolit for gicat part of
the Andietera and Connegochcaoue'
settlements.even into Pennsylvania
and that it is calculated from 15
20,®00 barrels of flour, belides iron
tobacco, Wheat, See. will be brought
down the Potowmac, through its
improved navigation, in the courle
of the pref'em year. The locks at
the little falls will be finilhed i n all
September. There is a fair prof
petft that the vigor with which the
Potowmac company are pursuing the
objet't of their incorporation wilt
reduce the land carriage from
George's Creek to tide-water, to 500
yards, before the fit It of January.
Four hundred men are engaged in
the work, and it is expected they
will b§. increased to 600.
Cumberland is riling with more
rapidity perhaps than any inland
town in America, and the calh price
of wheat there, from 4s. to 4s. 3d.
(dollars at 7s. 6d.) is filling its weil
ern neighbourhood with induilrious
inhabitants.
The public works carrying on,in
the city of Walhington, n»\v em
ploy 2JO men ; and preparations
for private buildings in the city,and
eretSing mills and other improve
ments in its vicinity, employ as gteat
a 11 umber.
FREDERICKSBURGH, April ft.
A correspondent informs us, that
a Patent will fhurtly pass the Presi
dent's seal to secure to several con
gressional dill liits in this state, the
benefits arising from a iateandmofl
important discovery they have made,
that talents are not effintral in L-gVfl'a
tion : But as an extension of this
privilege to the usual term might
create jealousies in other diftriifts,
it is expected the exclusive right
will not be guaranteed to the in
ventois for a longer time than
two years ; during which period
we (hall doubrlefs have an oppor
tunity ofjudging of this wonderful
invention.
NORFOLK, (Vir ) April 10.
On Saturday la(t arrived lierethe
sloop Farmers, Capt. Drinkwater, in
12 days from St. Martin's, by whom
we have received the following in
telligence,
That a velTel had arrived express
rom France in 22 days, at Guada
loupe, on the 20th of March, and
on the next morning war was pro
claimed by beat of drum against the
King and Parliament of England,
and the United States of Holland ;
all the English and Dutch veflels
were ordered to quit the port with
in 24 hours after the declaration—
that the principal Dutch merchami
at St. Euftatius were removing to
Sr. Thomas's—that as soon as the
intelligence was known at St. Mar
tin's, the Dutch veflels were taken
from the French port, and carried
round to the Old Bay—that no in
telligence had been received of the
arrival of Lord Hood in any part
of the Weft Indies, nor was there
any greater British force than usual
—that it was reported that Dumou
rier had made a fuccefsful incursion
into Holland, and the day was fixed
upon to determine the fate of the
Queen.
BALTIMORE, April 12.
From a CorrcJ'pondtnt.
We learn that the citizens of the
state of Delaware, are to be invited
to an union with those of Pennsyl
vania and Maryland, for the pu l- -
pose of removing the obltrutSions
in the Sufquehanna, and rendering
that river navigable through its se
veral branches to the tide-water ot
the bay of ChePapeake, and ofcom
muni'catiug theChefapeake by means
■of a cross-cut canal with the river
Delaware.
Should the citizens of the state of
Delaware approve the means, the
several legiiluni es are, we nnder
ftand, to be applied to for their sanc
tion—How far fueh a plan would
conduce to the true interests of the
commerce of Maryland, or on the
contrary be injurious to them, we
do not presume to judge, but leave
the difculfion of this fubjed to per
sons better acquainted with its me
rits. We however think it our du
ty, thus early to announce from ve
ry good authority, such a ft: he me
being in agitation, in order that
the public and those concerned may
consider in time the objedt in all its
Various points of view, and throw
such light thereon, as its importance
and magnitude require.
• WASHINGTON, April 10
■Yefterdav was the clay appointed by the
Commillioners, for their decilion on a Plan
for the Hotel, in conformity to the terms
of the Lottery Scheme. Ten were prerented,
so varied in their beauties, as to aftonifti the
collection of gentlemen who were present at
the plealing exhibition. After many observa
tions, 011 the rapid progress in American Ar
chitecture, which it is pre fumed the several
public prize* of Washington, have tended to
promote ; the Commitiioners were only hurt
at their not having the power to reward each
artist according to merit—after due consi
deration, the drawing of Mr. James Hoban
of Charleston, South-Carolina, was preferred.
The Principal Building oftiie Hotel will have
a front of 123 feet, and the largest Room will
be 43 by feet ; the stile of the whole, will
far exceed any building at present known in
America : the workmen are already at the
foundation, on Square N . central, be
tween the Preside.it'? lioufe and the Capitol.
PROVIDENCE (R.. I.) April 1 r.
The account of the war in Europe, vari
ously agitates all classes of citizens—but there
are two classes on whose conduct our prospe
rity in this eventful crisis much depends—lt
will he the duty as well as the interest of the
Farmers, and all who have ground to culti
vate, to fill it with a plenty df feed of all
kinds of grain ; for it is certain that a great
demand, and of course large prices will be
given for every article in that way the etifu
ing fall and winter ; —while our Farmers will
thus be doing their part, our Merchants we
kope will avoid every thing which may tend
to involve us in the vortex of European poli
tics and war—this their duty as well as their
inuriji 4i<sh}te—anil from t!ie patiiotifm
heretofore displayed by these classes of citi
zens, we have every realon to anticipate
peace and prosperity.
N E \V-Y O R. K, April 15.
Yeftcrday arrived from Calcutta, after a
passage of four months and 15 {lays, the (hip
America, Captain Bright.
By this arrival we have received accounts,
that Tippoo Saib has so far complied with
the requisitions of the treaty, as to pay two
pagodas of the three which he was to pay to
the Englifli. Tippoo's two sons are still re
maining at Calcutta,
It appears that the success of the English
against Tippoo, was principally attributed to
the bravery of some Americans (about 6o in
number) who were officers in the army of
Lord Cornwall*!!. These Americans were ta
ken during the late war in America, sent o
ver to London as prisoners, and from thence
sent to the East-Indies as private soldiers ;
where, by their good conduct they were pro
moted.
It was supposed in India when the Ameri
ca came away, that Tippoo certainly would
make another attempt or* the Englifti the firft
favorable opportunity. This restless ambi
tious man, appears far from being fatisfied
with the late.treaty, and if the French were
to think of an attack upon the Englilh settle
ments in India, Tippoo would be a powerful
friend to them, and might be fatal to the
Engiifh.
A number of American reffels had failed
for Oftend, laden with sugar, when the Arni
ca came away.
The America's cargo consists almost entire
ly of sugar.
LxtraEl oj a letter to a refbeflabJe mercantile houjz in
thisccityy y dated Falmouth, Feb. 15, via Phila
delphia.
The Englilh government have lately given
345. per barrel for flour, and in proportion
ior to be landed in Great-Britain (but
only by American bottoms) they continue to
purcliafc thereat, and the French agents also.
"We are landing here some cargoes fold to our
government, and others we are about to for
ward to France, by order of our correfpon
-dentl;; prices keep up in Spain and Portugal,
so that we think the cargoes expeCted, will
leH well, unless our government ftiould cease
<to purchase.. We fold a few days (ince, a car
go us 270 tons of flour, at 345. per barrel,
and 32". fine, if the war continues
-we eKpetf American veflels will get good
•freights. An embargo is laid on all Englifti
veflels.
23th Feb. It is said that our government
i*>pe to buy muicr 345. per barrel.
The National Convention have decreed
that the pruts made by the cruiacrs belong
ing to the republic (hall be equally divided be
tween the F<*ucb crew and tlie crew of the
velfel talcin. If an arraffd veHel is raptured,
the admiralty !ha!l purchase the prize and the
amount be divided as above.
Thyrfday, last week tlie corner stone or the
new Epifcopa! Church in this city, -ivas laiil at
the ground appointed fortiiat purpofCjiti Ann
Streets
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
WHY should the voice of aifcord he per
mitted again to elevate itklf 10 this hap
py land', where liberty and peace have at length
found an asylum —.a country rich in the choicest
gifts of Heaven to favor'd nun ! A happy Jlime
and bounteous ioi 1, where a philol~o>plnc fpsrit of
tranquility should rather incite the" social, tftc
civilized, the fcientific hujbandman, to " beat the
sword into a ploughfharo, the spear into a prun
ing-hook, and learn the art of war I
no more."
" Ah, thrice happy, if we knew our happy
state !"
TJiough the capricious, the idle, the felfifh,
the disappointed and the ambitious, may attempt
to conceal the real deformity of their characters'
beneath ihc inantle of patriortfm, the dijguife
will fooncr or later fall off, and their native dis
tortions will bediiclofed to the ind gnanr
of their houeft, candid, peaceable feilow-mrn.
Let all the well-meaning citizens of this free
country drop the idle diftin&ions that different
political creeds have formerly introduced ; 4nil \
as terms Whig and Toty seem to have been, for
some years past, by mutual consent configrted to
oblivion, let them reft in peace ! Let us not re- :
fufcitate a semblance of anticrvt feuds under the j
newly adopted defignatious of Aiiftociat and
Democrat; but let all the liberal well-informed
inhabitants of this favorite retreat of rational
freedom, give to the world a new example of
unanimity and perlcverance in support of a well-i
ordered government, and thus fhtw thefnfcWe*'
worthy of enjoying viituoos Independence !
Let us afliduoufly cultivate the arts of peace,
and diffufe those sublime ideas of univcrfal phi
lanthropy, which the contemplation of equal
rights and equal laws naturally inspires.
When any one citizen has eminent!) distin
guished himlelfby his exertions for the publie
prosperity and h«ppinefs, let each individual of
the community express his approbation and
gratitude at any time, in any way he pleafcs,
provided it be not repugnant to the existing laws
and incoafiftent with the good order of society ;
and let not the annals of America t>e foiled with
illiberal animadversions on such laudable con
dutt. But at the fame time, let us studiously
endeavor to prove, that in this enlightened coun
try, laws govern, and not men. Let us incul
cate the docliine, that with refpeft to the ope
ration of thr /d&'j, all men are perfe&ly iqual;
in other refpe&s, inequalities will inevitably
arise between man and man, which mull exist
wi some form or other, so long as divine wisdom
supports that system which Omnipotence firft
created.
Whatever is inconsistent with juftiee among
mm, is repugnant ro ihe will of God, as implied
in his attributes. I.et uo one then impiously
attempt to level diftinftions fan&ioned by God
rtJUia_me conunoii »«:nie wi wwßwm.
Let us endeavor to promote universal benevo
lence, and cherilh the with that all the inhabit
tants of this Globe may be taught to love eacty
other as brethren, and that they may cordially)
unite in addreiling to Heaven the fame hymn of
Love, Veneration and Gratitude !
Philadelphia, April 18,1 793.
For the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
THOUGHTS ON THE
STATE OF AMERICAN INDIANS.
(Continued from No. gi, of this Gazette.)
No. IV.
ANOTHER cause of the consumption of
the Indians is the multiplication of wars.
The firft settlers were more attentive to
secure their establishment than to cultivate
the affections of the natives—The latter soon
perceived that the success of their new guests
was incompatible with their interests, and
deftruftive of their mode of life. Jealoftfy
quickly kindled hostilities, and excited a spi
rit of animosity between the two nations—
frequent encounters took place, in which the
discipline and arms of the whites gave them
a decided superiority, and wafted the strength
and impaired the numbers of the savages.—
Ignorant of the military art, and destitute of
the means of conducing war, they easily be
came a prey to their more policied and fkilful
neighbors.—lt is not neceifary to enumerate
the various engagements which have taken
place, the history of almost every state far
m/lies moie or less.—But the hostilities be
tween their own tribes have been much more
frequent, and probably much more destruc
tive than their contests with the whites. The
occasions of war among them are numerous
and frequent—Encroachments on their hiHit
ing grounds—the obstruCtion of those paths
through which custom and the tacit tonfent of
the neighboring tribes have given them a
right to pass—a thtrft for revenge, the emu
lation of valor, and the intemperate ardor of
young warriors,impatient to try theirftreugth ?
are perpetual sources of discord among them*
The manner of conducting hostilities, the
conduct of the viCtors, and the national and
hereditary feuds which these ingender, are
unfailing sources of consumption, From their
infancy, they are taught to consider the cha
racter of a warrior as their highest glory—and
the habits of their education are all calculated
to inspire them with courage, with Ikill, and
an ambition for diftinltion in war. The high
est praise of a warrior consists in destroying as
many of the enemy with as little loss to his
own party as potiible. After vi&ory, they
dispatch such as they are unable to remove
without difficulty—the remainder they con
duit to their tribe, to be adopted into their
families, or to satiate their unrelenting ven
geance, by fuffering every torture their inge
ouity can invent or their cruelty infjiCt. in
371
cafe of pu: fult, they dispatch their prisoner-;,
to prevent their being released by their coun
trymen. Those of the captives who are pretty
far advanced in life, and have been fucCeKful
warriors, are always marked victims of their
vengeance. They have no idea of sparing
and exchanging prisoners Their national
antipathies are generally hereditary ; fathers
bequeath their animosity to their children,
and rhefe rivalfhips continue from age to age.
These contentions existed among the In- I
diuns indeed before the iettlement of the ,
country by the Europeans—but they have j
multiplied and animated them—they have
iurnifhed them with more deadly weapons of
de ft ru'&i oh, and whetted tbeir natural appc-
blood, by the allurement of an intoxi
eating feward. By diltra&ing their councils,
by preventing any concert in their measures,
and by nourifiling the natural enmity of the
tribes, they rendered them the initruments of
each other's deftru&ion.
The French and Engiifh also, whose in
trigues and ambition have kept this country
from its lirffc settlement embroiled in war,
availed theinfelves °f the credulity of the
natives, and made them the dupes of their
artifice ind a l'acrifice to their aggrandize
ment. The uqhappy influence of these wars
on population, needs no illulfration. They
constitute perhaps the most powerful cause of
the decay of the Indians.
The use of fprrituous liquors, in like man
ner, has hac( a fatal efficacy of the like nature.
All barbarous nations are found to be exces
sively fond of strong drink. Whether this
arises from their constitution, the poverty of
their food, or merely from the exceliive use
of it, I pretend not to determine —perhaps all
tfefe causes concur in producing this effect.
In experience we find, that whenever they
Can procure it in any abundance, they fcarce
lyVyer fail to become; the victims of their
temrrttl'. TTie' restraints it removes—rite
pafilons which it inflames—the vices to which
it prompts, and the cliforders which it ci eates,
have the innft unhappy influence in weaken
ing their strength and in diminiftiing their
numbers. This cause, however, could have
a partial influence only, as the use of spirits
has never been general among them, and
could only be procured from the whites.
The small-pox also deserves a place in an
enumeration of the causes which have contri
buted to the consumption of the Indians —
This* has always carried deftru&ion and dis
may whenever it has been dilTeminated among
chem—-few have lurvived this disorder. It is
uncertain whether this is to be ascribed to
their peculiar constitution or mode of life.—
Their manner of treating it is known to be
unlkilfu! and dangerous. Nor has the success
of in »cu)ation been such as we ftiould have
expected. It is evident therefore that the
diminution of the sources of fubfiftente, the
practice of war, the use of spirituous liquors,
anci jhe finall-po>{, have contributed to Jeflen
the number oflndians—and inafrnuch as num
bed favour the improvement of society, to
the progress of Civilization among
effect we find that the Indians do
not'ihcreafe—they do not indeed continue
stationary—their marriages do not replace
the parents; the greater part of their chil
dren die in infancy—fome tribes arc wholly
extinct, others are considerably lelfened, and
the whole number of Indians is greatly dl
minifhed.
N. N,
Philadelphia, April 20.
The French are now prosecuting an expe
dition against the King of Sardinia—they ex
pert to. conquer the island.
It is said that the people of Courland, a
large Dutcby in the north of Europe have re
volted and drove their Duke out of the terri
tory—and immediately declared themselves
'
A letter, said to be from London, to an
Editor of one of the Baltimore papers, fays,
that the English Government are in the
gresteft dread, left the French (hould land
1 men on their coast—the writer adds,
that were such a circumstance to take place,
the FCCnch would in the course of three days
find their numbers entreated to 60d,000, as
the Republican party is very numerous and
determined.
Four Englilh frigates, it is reported, are
cruising off Hifpaniola.
The time appointed by the CommilConers
of the Federal Buildings, for making divisions
and al&gnments of Lots in the City of Waih
ington, is extended to the 17th day of June
nexi
By a gentleman from New-London, fays
the Xorwich Packet, we learn, that on Tues
day last, Capt. Joseph Smith, arrived there,
in day£ from Guadaloupe, who informs,
that previous to his failing, the tflands of
Guadaloupe and Martinico were both given
up to the Ehglifli by the inhabitants—and the
Britifti flags were displayed on the torts of
both islands. Capt. Smith brought a number
of pailengers.
Isaac Coles, Efq- is elected a Reprefenta
tivejn Congress from the State of Virginia—
and 2 riot Matthew Clay, Esq. as mentioned in
a:f6rnief<sazette.
,Tte* .President of the United States ar-
town last Wednesday.
SAYS A CORRESPONDENT,
1 Tire revolution of France, while it appealed
to have for its object the deftruciiou ot the an
cient delpotifm and the securing of the equal
rights x>f insn under a tree and a just govern
ment, was exulted in by every friend of man
kind in America and in Europe. But when al
fdflioatiom, muideis, levelling*, end depreoa
tions desolated the country, aud the toul fiends
of anacchy aod confufion seized the reins of go
vernment, Hope depreffrd hrr towering cicft,
and Wisdom lued a teai wiiile leading another
page of humanity fo&itiiiar to all that tune hod
before '.uftrihed m the annaU of man.
The Rrioxv He Gazette of* the IVTarc*,
contains accounts of various recent murders,
and depredations committed by the Indians,
in the SouthWestern Territory.—-On rhe I,6fh
Feb. they stole ten hurfcs in Jefterfon Covmrr.
On the 9th March James and Thomas Nelft ji
(brothei;) —on the ißth two yoong men-■ . ;, y
the name of Clements— and b't: the 201:. a
by the name of Taylor were J;ihed. Creeks,
Cherokee', and Shawancle were tiie pti pet: ••'-
tors of thele murders.—A letter from Nhjl.-
vib'e fays, the Creeks are as busy in killing
if they had been, paid three thiufuni aotia- s in
so doing,in the room, of fijteen hvndud to keep
the peace they have made with the United
States—and the Cherokees follow their 111 -
worthy example.
Extrdfl of A letter from Britain, dated A r ov. 3, 17 9f.
" Liberty is the objedt of vei-eration by
every upright mi^d*—but nothing is Inch an
enemy to that, as the liccntionfnefs that weak
ness ancs folly Lave dignified with that facrtd
name of late—And we here, are at prelent
in fueh a high tide of profpe: ity, as to engen
der an infinity of chimerical notions on that
fubjeft, which a: e highly dangerous. You aie
in the fame train—though you have not yet
advanced so far—but neither have your legis
lators provided such barriers to guard againit
its efFe&s as we have, so that I think it is a
moot-point to fay which is in g> eateft danger
of foonell fuffering by it. 1 rather am in
clined to think it is yourselves. You will
perceive that 1 am no advocate for any party
—and therefore I blame and approve, with
perfect freedom, whatever 1 think right or
wrong, without refpeft to pei Tons.''
Extr&B from Mr. Wanchard's of his 4 $th
jErial Tour.
I SHOULD have forgotten my earthly ex
igence, had I not recollected fo'nie observa
tions, which Several learned gentlemen had
requested nie to make.—At loh. 36. 37. 38111.
I found that I was in a flare of perfect equi
librium in the inidft of a stagnant fluid ; I
made haste to avail myfelf of this happy cir
cumstance, in order to execute the commis
sions I had been charged with.
Experiment I.
I began with emptying the fix bottles which
Do<ftor Casper Wiftar, liad put in my Car,
containing divers liquors ; they were then,
all filled with that atmospherical air wherein
I was floating, and were flopped up hermeti
cally, as the accuracy of the experiment re
quired.
Experiment 11.
Do(storßufli had requested me to make an
observation on the pujfation of the arteries,
when I should be arrived at my greateil
height. I found it impoflible to make use of
his quarter minute glais which he had provi
ded for that purpose, but I fupplitd its place
by an excellent second hand watch ; and the
result of my observations gave me 92 pulfa
tiorti in the minute, (the average of four ob
servations made at the place of my highelt
elevation) whereas, on the ground, I had ex
perienced no more than 84 in the fame time,
average of 4 observations, difference 8 pulsa
tions more at the height of 5812 English feet,
where I then was.
Experiment 111.
I had been requested by Doctor PJunket F.
Glentworth to make experiments in the ethe
rial regions with a load-stone, which he had
left me. On the gronnd it raifedsi-2 oz.
avoirdupois, but at the aforefaid height it
would hardly bear 4 oz-
Experiment IV.
The lowest of the mercury in the ba
rometer after having brought its furface in
its lower reservoir to its proper level, arid
corrected its dilatation, was 69 lines 9 16
French measure, or 74 lines 8 16 Englifti
measure, which according to Mariot, Boyle,
Deluc, and Father Cote, gives an elevation
of 905 toifer, I foot and 6 inches, (the toife is
6 feet) or 5431 feet 6 inohes Freneh measure,
and at the usual redu&ion 968 fathom 4 feet,
or 5812 Englifli measure. Th-s was the high
est elevation of my balloon, without having
thrown out any of my ballast, except the li
quor contained in the fix bottles given to me
by Doctor Wiftar. At this moment, 38 mi
nutes after 10 o'clock, the thermometer of
Reaumur 9d. Fahrenheit's 52d. 3 !0."
COMMUNICATIONS.
While our complainers tell us what they
do not like, will they be pleased to tell us ex
plicitly what they would like. The best way
to judge is by comparison. We make no
doubt they are good hands to pull down—let
us fee their talents as builders. From what
we havefeen, we are afraid they handle the
pick-ax better than the trowel. Any fool can
put a fire-brand to a temple.
We haye been told of the dangerous influ
ence of titles. To those who maintain that
founds are substances we recommend to keep
a drift watch left the enemies of liberty should
take advantage of some unguarded spot and
entrench thenifelves. It is ftrprifing that
the title of reverend applied to the clergy
(hould have remained uncenfured till lately.
But the high founding titles of the Grand
Lodges of the Free Masons, with ther Right
Worfhipful Grand Matters and their Most
Worflnpful Grand Secretaries must be aba
lifhed or Liberty will not live to fee another
new-year's dar.
ARRIVED*/the PORT vj PHILADELPHIA.
Ship William Penn, Jofiah, London
Brig Christiana, B own, AuxCayej
Schooner Betsey, Keen, Cape Francois
Sloop Richmond, "Walker, Virgin
PRICE OF STOCKS
6 per Cer.u,
3 per Outs, its/a
Uclcrrtd, tojf
Full iharci Bi'nk V. S. 9 to 10 per cent. prci%FRENCH ANECDOTES
THE ci cievant Due d'Orleans,
was ever the avowed enemy
of the widowed queen ; not from
any real insult or injury he ever re
ceived from Iter, but because her
vivacity and wit fomeiinies led ber
to ridicule his follies and vices.
Some years since, when the duke
began to build upon the gaudens of
the palais royal, the inhabitants of
Paris, murmuring at his condudt in
depriving them of their favorite
walk, grew highly incensed againlt
him. The lovely queen, who had
heard of the difconieut among the
people, and who ever wiflied to con
tribute to their pleasure and liappi
liefs, f'aid jocosely to Monsieur d'Or
leans, " my cousin you will r.ot have
much trouble or expence in finding
materials for your new buildings ;
for i find all the inhabitants of Pa
ris are ready to throw ft ones at you."
This innocent pleasantry was how
ever one of the crimes never forgot
ten by the dnke, and never menti
oned but with a threat of vengeance.
The late unfortunate king of
France was not only the tenderefl
of fathers, hut the, mod conUaut of
hulbands ; of which the following
well known anecdote will bear wit
ness : About ten yeais since, che
wife of a Bourgeoife in Paris, re
markable for her beauty, made a
point of following the king to all
public places,even his morning rides
were attended by the ambitious Ena
morata. The king being infoimed
of her motive, one morning, while
taking his exercise in the Bois de
Bologne.nearPai is.ftopp'd hishorfe,
and addrefled the lady to'the sol*
lowing purport :—" If you follow
me from idle curioflty, madam, I
think by this time that curioflty
might be fatisfied ; if from a desire
to draw my attention, I will save
you the trouble ; for while my wife
is the firft object of my afFetfions,
I have no occasion for a mistress."
Such was the vidim of an inhuman
people, the firfl truly virtuous mo
narch that misguided France ever
had to boast of !
Jufl publijbed,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Stone House, No. 4>, Seuth Second-Street,
A CASE,
Decided in the Supreme Court of the United
States, in which is difcufled the Qneftion,
WHETHER A STATE IS LIABLE TO BE
SUED BY A PRIVATE CITIZEN OP
ANOTHER STATE ?
Price Half a Hollar.
TO THOSE CONCERNED IN MILLS IN
THE UNITED STATES.
OLIVER EVANS, laic of the date of Dels
ware, informs the public, that he has re.
moved to Philadelphia, No 437, North Secund
ftteer, where he will thankfully receivc any
applications (or the u(e of his Patent Improve
ments on Mills, and the att of manufaQuring
Flour. He will furiuth thofc who are not diffi
dently acquainted wuh the principles of his iml
provements, with diawings and defcriptwns
that will enable thein to erect all the different'
machines neefflary to perform .the operations of
cleaning, boulting, and of boulting
over the middlings or coarse meal, arid grinding
it over with the grain, so as to finidi all together,
thereby making the greated quantity of fupctfine
flour that the grain will produce at one opera,
tign—-He has been at much expense in colli fl
ing the different and mod approved condruSions
ot mills and plans,for boulting, and the quality,
(i<je, and manner of dreffmg the mill-dones, fu.it
able to the power of ihc mill, and quality of [he
grain : and will allift in planning mill's from
the toundaiion, and make drawings thereof if
required. H' has for sale, Boulting Cloths and
Mill-Stones, ot the firft quality. at the lowed
prices, which he will warrant. If the doncs
prove not good; they will be received again,
and the cod of carriage paid. Those who ap
ply sot either donrs or cloths, will pleat to
mention the power of the mill, fi ?.e of the
boulting-reels, quality of the grain, and on. what
btifinefs it is to run. Orders by pod, or othei'-
wife, will be as punfiually attended to as if the
parties were prefeiit.
Philadelphia, April 13
TO BE SOLD,
A noted covering Horse,
OF THE HUNTING BREED,
HE *as imported from England Tn Novem
ber, seventeen hundred and eighty.fix, and
is now ten years old ; he is a .bright bay, with a
blaze,fifteen hand6one inch high, is weliform'd,
has a great deal of bone and strength, and his
action equal to any horse. His colts aie well
approved of in the different parts of the State
■where he has ftood,of which any person inclined
to purchase c?jr» inform themselves. Enquire
of I he Pt inter.
February i.B, i 793.
By Thomas Dohfon,
Scoifeller, at the Stone-House, in Second Jtreei
Phi LADELI'HIA,
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
ok, A DICTIONARY OF ARTS, SCIENCES]
AM) MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
THE DtPFtKENT SCIENCES andAHTS
arc digcftrd into the form <>l D J'tt+jtt,
TREATISES or SYSTEMS :
St ,
THIS VOL UMI CONTAINS y>
AN Account of the Cap of Gvod #9?e,
Grafting, Univcrfal Grammar, Gypjfcs,
Greece, Greenland, Guam, Guinea, Gunnery,
Happiness, Harmony, Heat, Hepatit-Air, .He
rald t y,Kindoft.m,HippopotJitt< ui,Hlftory.Nc w-
Hollaud, Hoife, Horftmanftnp, Hottentots,
Hunting, Huftjandry, Hydrometer, with a great
variety of Biographical and Miscellaneous Arti
cles. Em belli shed with sixteen Copperplates.
CONDITIONS..
I. Ihe work ;s printing on a fu per fine paper,
and new types, (call for the puipole) which
will l)<* occasionally renewed before they coiv
tra6i a worn appewrahce,
11. The work :s furnifhed in boards,/in volurftet
or half-volumes, as (oLferibers chufe; the price
of ih.e whole vpiuines, five dollars, each, at the
half-volumes fvvo dolors and t wa,third.!, of a
dollar each. Ten dollars to "tve paid oujfub
fcribunr, the volumes or half-volumes.finiftied
to be paid for when delivered, theprice of one
volume to he paid in advance, and the price of
each succeeding volume to be paid on deliver
ing fhc volume preceding it. No part 0/ the
work will he delivered unless paid for.
111. In (he course of the publication will be dd*
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia: which by
far exceed in number ihofe given in any other
fcientific dictionary. At the close of the pub
lication will be delivered an elegant frontif
piece, the dedication, prcface, and pro-pei ti
tle pag,es for the different volumes,
It is expe&ed the work will be comprised in
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
(JdT Aifeveral gentlemen who have honored this
undertaking with early fubfc.Hptions, hare only re
ceived, a (maHl part of the work, they are earn eft ly
requeued to complete their sets, as far as publifiud,
immediately, while the pubiijher Jlill has it in his
power to supply them frith the parts which have not
beenjurniihed. As thefub/cription will very poffi
bl\ be closed by the firft as \jfuly next, the publijher
cannot undertake to complete sets after that period';
and thoje who wijh to become po/I'ejlors of this trull
valuable and important work. will pleaje apply before
the expiration oj that time> that they may nothe dif
ap pointed. J
The very heavy expence necejjarily incurred in car.
nitg on this work, makes it indifpenfaUy requijde
Jor the pubhfher to adhere more Jt>ifil\ than he haj
done to the original condition, of delivering the vo
lumes only on being paid for them.
Apr;l 6. 1793.
District of Pin to tuii.
T>E IT REMEMBERED, That on
( .Seal. J U the thirteenth dsy of March, in
Vthe seventeenth year of the Indepen
dence of the United States of Amt 1 ica,
Thomas Dobson, of the said Difitia, hath de
posited in this Office, the Title of a Book, the
Right whereof he claims as Proprietor, in the
words following, to wit.
" An Enquiry how far the Punishment of Death
" P ">«fx' v '"" a - With Notes and
" J/luJlrafwns. By William Bradford, Esq.
" To which is added, an Account of the Gaol and
; " Penitentiary House oj Philadelphia, and of the
i " interior _ Management thereof. By Caleb
; Lownes, of Philadelphia. lj tue enquire
; " into the Causes oj all human Corruptions, we
" fhaUfnd that they proceed from the Impunity
; "oj Crimes, and not from the Moderation of Pu
" r.ifhments." Montefq.
In conformity to the Aa of the Congress of
the United States, intitnled, " An Ast for the
Encouragement of Learning, bv securing the
Copies of Maps, Chans and Books, tp (he Au
thorsand Proprietors of such Copies, dining the
Times therein mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the Diftrift of Pennfylvanl'a.
u ,%f~ wrl is fold in Char left on by
W ll ham Price Young • Richmond, by Archibald
Lurne : Baltimore, bv James Rice : New-York,
vy Thomas Allen : I! oft on, by David Weft.
advje,rtisS:m£nt.
WHEREAS a BRID'GE is 10 be built over
Rantan River, at the city of Ncw-Brunf-
Iw.ck in the state of N C «r-jerty_,o ,cco<T,pli(h
which, Will require the fervicdof many carpm
itcrsaiid masons of experience ; Notice is th Sle
;fc.re hereby given, that »ny per fan or perfonsin.,
clining tounderukc the whole, oi any part titere
ot„ by applying to the fujbfcriber., on or before,
the hilt day ol Mlv next, may haw an opportu
nity ol cootrafling for the fame. '
JOHN BAYARD.
JACOB HARD6NBURGH.
JOHN DENNIS, Sen.
Btvnfmck,. March e p 3 $
Post-Road
TO THE GENESEE COUNTRY.
THE public arc hereby informed, that *be
Poft-.Ro.ac) from Philadelphia to Readina
is continued to Sunbutyami NorthumbcVUnd •
thence op the Weft Branch of the Sufquehannab
as tar as Licommg; tbcnce to the Painted Post
(:n New-Yprk (laic, near the forks of the Tioga)
thence to Bath (a town laid out on the
Branch of the Tioga) thence to Williamfcure.
at thr> forks of Genefce River.
Letters for .this new route'will be sent from
the Philadelphia Port-Office everv VVednefdav
morning, at e.ght o'clock, with'the mail for
Kcadiqg.
1 a w 3 w
A weekly mail will alio be cartied ft™,
Bethlehem to Willkefbarre, io the county of
General Pojl-Cffce, April 6, 1793,
JVST PUBLISHED,
VOLUME VIIr, or
On a Plan tntirtl) new
BY WHICH
*P"»
372
Morse's Geography,
Rivifcd, corrected r and greatly enlarged, wit/i rr.an
additional Ma ps, ivejl engraved.
In a few weeks will be publifhcd,
By THOMAS and ANDREWS. Faust's Statue,
No. New-bury-Street, Boflon,
In fwo Volumes, large Ofiavo.
A NEW Edition oi -ht AMERICA N
GEOGRAPHY: Being the lai^eft
ami the Illy ilem ot Geography ever pub
lished r Or a complete GEOGRAPHY, of the
WORLD, brought down to the prcfent time.
IN TWO PARTS.
The General Content 3 are—
PART I. - Of Astronomy, as connecte d with,
and int rodq&oi.y "to the-fcience of Geography :
under this head will be given an account of the
ieveral afironoinical fyfttms of the Wot Id, and
a particular defer iptiv>n of the true One. A table
o? the diameters, periods, &c. of the fevcral
Pianets in the solar fyllem—an account of the
Connis and fixed stars.
Of Giography—its use and piogtefs—
figure, magnitude and motion of the Earth—
D ttlinc oi the Sphere— Geographical circles—
Divisions of the Earth into zones and climatcs
—methods of finding tl e latitude and longitude
of places from celellial observations—Globes,
and their use—with a number of the most ufe
ful and entertaining Geographical Problems and
Theoiems—Maps, and their ufe—foorces of heat
and cold—theory of the winds and tides —length
of miles in different countries—natural divisions
of the Eaith—account of the Gregorian or new
stile, See.
Am F.Rica — Its discovery by Columbus—
general defcripnon of the Continent, in which is
a lengthy difcuflion of Ihe question, When,
whencc. and by whom, was America firft peo
pled ? With a long and entertaining account of
the Indians,ana the late discoveries 011 the noi th
weft coast, —North America —Chrono-
logical account of its difcovcry and fctileinqnts,
its divisions—Danish America, British
America, (Jnitid States ol America—
general description of them, including a history
of the Jate war, and many other ufeful and en
tertaining matters. Sooth Am erica—its di
visions, particular dcfcription of us fcveral pro
vinces and countiies. West India Islands.
See
*** This part of the work will be illustrated
by maps of the countries described, from the
COl refteft copies.
PART ll.— Containing every thing essential
which is contained in the best and laiefl quarto
edition of Guthrie's and other Briiifli Geogra
phies, with feleftions from celebraied naviga
tors, travellers and icfpe&able authors of other
nations, &c.
Of Europe in general—its grand divisions,
particular geographical descriptions of its seve
ral Kingdoms and Republics, &c. Of Asia
ttsfkuation, boundaries, general history, parti
cular dcfcriptions of its fcveral divisions, &c.
Of Africa—its general history, boundaries,
grand divisions, &c. Also, new difcovcries,
Terra Incognita, Geographical Table, alphabe
tically arranged—Chronological Table of re
markable events, discoveries and inventions, lilt
of men of learning and genius, with other ufelul
miscellany.
*** This part will also be illuflrated with
inaps of the countries described.
TO THE PUBLIC
• THE Author is sensible that (he fi,ft edition
of his American Geogiaphy (which makes Part
J'"' thc abo " e wo 'k) was in many instances de
fective, in others erroneous, and in some offen
livc. It has been his endeavour, as it was his
desire, in the present edition, to fupplv the defi
c.encies, correct the evrors, and meliorate the
offenfive pans of the last. To aflift him in this
bulinefs, he has received many valuable commu
nications from Ihe heads of departments in the
Kncral soverament, and from gentlcfnen of re
fptclabiluy iri ihe fcveial Hates. The defcrip.
tnii of foreign countries (which composes Part
11. of the above work) hat been carefully com
piled from the most approved writers on Gro.
graphy, and ufetul information introduced from
the difcover.es of the latest Navigators, Travel
lers, and refpeitable authors. Indeed, no pains
norcxpenfe have been spared to render this work
the moll complete, accurate, and ufeful of anv
ever offtrtd to the public
City of Wafliington.
A____ January 7i h. I*7oo
NL MBER of Lois in this City will be of.
fered for sale at auft.on, by the Commis
sioners, on the 17th day of September next —
One fourth part of thc purchase money is to be
paid down, the refidueat three equal annual pay
ments with yearly intercfton the whole princi
pal unpaid. f"»u-i-
Fi .J° ( HN M- GANTT, Clerk ,0 the Com'rs.
M of an A« of the Genera! Afßmbly of
Mary'and concerning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and the City of Watoingior.
j.., " v,' 1 . That any foreigner may by
died or will. hereafter to be made, take aid held Lils
vuhrn that part oj thejaU Territory which lies Lit
ze fth-V: thef T ma " nfr "*/* -> - cil
vel/L r } r ' ■ fan " lands *<««-
Vis heiri" d .' ran f mUed '0 and be inherited by
J a "- '9- , f
T I C K E TS
I V. he CITY LOTTERY
be had »t SAMUEL COOPER's Ferry.'
plans
OF THE
City of Washington,
So](J-|)y tlie 800 kseilfb «j
DOBSM, LAftZY, yotlA'c, &Trc'KSHAM
ier fT Q TG^Tnum.
Fdit r y / r /" r " each w " l < p">d h the
Uuurjarajcm aj thojt numbers. * /
VinalJ's Arithmetic.
r pBE Second Edition of ibis wok, w ,ih , n .
I|'«»«,, will IWd.iv be nut l 0 pr '"
TTw rapid (ale ol the ill ecf.uon*, gre.Mv i'
' «.e auihor'a (no* fc„ R « wc
n.:end A to have ,t pmm d upon " **
pe, ,h„uhe oriMcr, , nd W(ll , , IMW C"
n.hfe Booktclle,, who w ,| h (0 t, lkc
ber ot copier in At e(s, are i<aucH,« . i °
.he authbi for particulars. q '"•PP , r'«
* loco (of 1 a
At a matin* ~f the S„, noL C o„„ ITTI|
_ bruaiy j h, 1793.
T "e Comnii'ti-r, ajiponttic in - r .
P.cor P .«,-.Ail 1 fi 4 , , l St „U m .. Guidb ,,
£<Vfcm«.c;l »«.,(■* of Arithmetic, by {,%*
Vina Li. , of the M*><m»tic, * W.ft
ng, in 8011,,,., reported, that they hrnc utrndrd
• hat fi-'vice, and arc ot op lh: „ |fc
>*te«yicd with and i. a, cTS.
laud for theofc ot Icunolt, coming lwi u f, 4 J<ld
private families, as ai, v of lb- i,„ ,
Lhai has hi.hr.lo been offered .0 the pJwJT
Voted, Ihat the ahove rc.iort h r -, Ps ,, , j
and that Mr. Vt«t t. be-furnifted with a top*
of 11, whenever lie (hail dene it.
Copy of the Records. * Attefl
CHARLES BW.FINCH, Sec'™*
The following; chara&cr of the above woA
is given in the Review of the Majjachvfon Ma',
gazine, for Jan. 1793 : M J
" V'i'u' j" y ufcful wor,t - and •» "o in
proof of the judgment and indud, y of the author
Toe rules are laid down with propriety, and
the examples annrved are fufficien. 10, thor il.
luflration. One pait ol the work deierva par.
t.cular iommend.nr,n. We mean that which
the aullror (tiles " Mercmti/t Arirhmttk " It
occupies a confideraHle portion of his book, but
not moie than Ms imoortanre will iuftify We
would recommend to the young Arithmetician
.0 pay a pa.ucula, a,tan.on to this branch.
He will fina It, principles well explained And
mould b- make himlell nyfter ol them, h« will
always have icafoii to acknowledge ins ohlim.
tion to ;hc judicious and laborious author We
cannot but cong.aiulate the rifmg generation n„
account of the many ufrfol prorluflion. which
have lately appealed; and in which ihn, no.
provemcnt hat been principally consulted —
Among tbr.fe produfttr.ns wc mufl place tin.
treatise of Anthmcuc. We (hould be wanting
in juftjee ,0 the author, fiiould we not acltnovc-
Irdjje rhat his work is in realitv that wt.ich in
ttlle imports—The Pr ec *pto s ' s Assistant.
or Student's Guide."
Jiojion, Feb. 13.
A" Ordinance Jor securing the puntiual
Paymentof the Monisr due an the
Subscriptions to the Society /of eft a"
blifting Ufeful Manufactures.
WHEREAS doubts have heretofore arisen
with regard to the power of (he Society
to annex any penalties ; to the non-payment of the
instalments, agreeably to the terms of the fub
fcriplions. And whereas (he a' their
lad fefimns, pafifd-a fupplemeni to the ordinal
Jaw of incorporation, removing the said
and fully authorizing the Diic'aors to pass any
ordinar.ee they «nay think proper, to compel tbo
pun&ual payiar©t of the said fnbfcriptions.
, Sec. 1. Be it orfotMd, therefore. bx the Governor
land Dire Bars of the Socrcty for cflablijking Vhful
Manvfaftvref, That if any fubferi'ber or hisafligos,
ftiail negjedtto pay the second paym nt oi his,
her, or their refpettive toge'-htf
with the lawful inteteft arifingthereon, either to
the cashier of the United States Bank Office of
Discount and Deposit, at New»York, thecafhirr
of the Bank of New-York* thecalhierof the
Bank of the United Slates, in Philadelphia, of
John Bayard, Esq. in the city of New-flrunf
wick, in the ftaie of New-Jcrley, on or be'ore
the thirteenth day of Apri 1 next : That then and
in that cafe, all and every (haie or (hares of such
petfon or persons fortegiediiog to make such pay
ments as aforefaid, and the monies by them pre
viouflV paid.fhafl he forfeited, and forever there
after vested in the said Dire£Vors, and their fuo
ceffbrs, for the common benefit of the said So
ciety.
Sec. 2. And be it further ordained by the authority
a forefaid t That if any subscriber, or his
Ihall ueglc# to pay the third payment ot his, her
or their refpe&ive fubfeription*, tdgcthtr with
the lawful interest arising thereon, on or brtote'
the thirteenth day of May next. That then and
in that cafe* all and every share ot shares of "fifth l
person or pcilons so neglcfting to m*ke luck l
payments as aforefaid, and the monies by tham
previously.paid, shall be forfeited, and forever
thereafter vested in the said Dirc£fors, and their'
fMCceflors, for the commou benefit of the said
Society.
Sec. 3. And be it further ordained by the authority
aforefaid, That if any subscriber, or hi* affigo&i»
fnali negie£t to pay the fourth payment of his,
her, or their refpc&ive fubferiptions,on or before
thfc thirtcennth day of July next, that then and in
that cafe, a)) and every share or fharcs of such
person or pei sons, so negle&ing io make fucfc
payments as aforefaid, and the monies by thtfrn
previously paid, (hall be forfeited, and fortVef
thereafter veiled try the said Dire&ors, and their
fucceflbrs, for the common benefit of the said'
Society. NICHOLAS LOW, Governor.
PaJJedat New-Ark, 20th February, 1793.
(Counterfigried) ELISHA BOUDINOT,
Secretary pro tempore.
BE IT KNOWN, that the proportion of fpc
cie which may be paid on the rcfpc&iye pay
ments of every original fliaic, by such Stock
holders as prefer paying a moiety of (aid fharej
in fpecic, in lieu of deferred debt, is as follows:
Lois. Cts.
On the isih of April, 1793, with in
terest from 13th July. 179^,
On the igJh of May, 1793, with in- ,
tcrcft from 13th January, 1793, 7 86
On the 13th of July, 1793, $, °9
Stockholders in the iaid Society ?re hereby
notified, that I, the fnbfcribcr, am duly autho
lizcti to make the requifjie indcirfements upon
the certificates of fhates which they may ineffec
tively hold, and that books of tVansfer are open
ed at my office, in Fionf-flnrr, New-York.
NICHOLAS LOW.
jawtigML
February 21, 1793.
I. C. A. A. A. S,
7 6 3