I
fe>(|zgfe of§
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FZNA'O, No. 34, NOPTH Fl}iTii-.6TRF,ET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. ir 9 of Vol. IV.]
Foreign Intelligence.
V 11 A N C E.
NATIONAL CONVENTION,
May 1
A DEPUTATION from theFaux
bourg St. Antoiue, teftd the
plan wliicli they had adopted for
recruiting the army, and for mak
ing a pro«ifinn for those citizens
who had Sniffled. This plan was,
that every citizen who had more
than 2000 livres of annual income,
fhotikl carry the half of the excess
to the Treafiirer of the diftridl, if
he had no children ; and that those
who bad children flioolcl be flowed
to dedurt jcio livres from the ex
cess. The spokesman of the depu
tation said, " We come, Legislators,
to tell you severe truths : but we
come likewtfe to tell you how to
save country. Employing y-our
felves for a laltig time as you have,
with your own perfon&l interests
and palfions, and divided as yoti
have been, declare to U3 what you
have done 1 [Violent murmurs.]
" You havg promised every tiling,
and kept your word in nothing.
Our defenders have been left desti
tute of every neceflary ; and you
have engaged to regulate the price
of the necefiary articles of life, to
relieve the necefficons— but in no
one inltauce have you kept your
word.
" The people have madeevery f.i
crifice to Liberty ; and do you in
your turn forge: who you are, pro
prietors and farmers. Imitate the
pwpie in their facrifices, and efta
biifh a limitation of tlie price of
prowifjtins
" *Ve reqtielt of yon (hat a price
way be fixed tor provifio'ns, and that
you will adopt the iiieafure-i we have
proposed. These are the means we
think nrceflarV for Caving our coun
try. ff you do not adopt them, we,
who wish to save it, declare, that we
are in a state of insurrection ! Those
who unite with us in our demands,
are at your doors. We requett leave
to file off through tlie hall. We are
111 number 8000—but ail unarmed."
The Convention was thrown into
* violent agitation by this har
rangu'e, and Mazuier moved, that
this petition should be printed and
ienc to the departments ; and that
all fiibfiitutes of the deputies
fliould be ordered to aflemble at
Tours or at Bruges.
PhilipeauX wifiied that the petiti
on might be rejected, and that the
p£rfoil who read the address (haulii
be put under arrest.
The Preftdent now read a letter
from t lie inhabit ants of. the above
Kiuxhourg, Rating that as they had
learnt with grief that their petition
had brought on an unfortunate dif
cuflion, they had fentanew address,
signed, '• The people who wifli to de
fend—no;to destroy the Conven
tion."
The difc.uflion cant inncd for fame
time, and Onnton at length moved
the order of the day, as the petiti
oners had difilaimed any incivic
j and that the petitioners
ill oulci tie admited to tbe honors of
ibe fitting.
Way 2
Twb depnries from the rfepart
aieot of la Loire rnfeiieure ap
■|»e»r«d at ilie bnr, and drew a moll
<ii(heßriei)ing picture of the rapid
progT«ft of the royaTrft*. They
trembled, the) said, for I heir native
<■*17 ; and avlded, that nearly two
lhoufind pntriors had been flawi in
their neighborhood ; and at Ma
fhecoiil alone, five hundred and fif
ty- With»m a very powerful arm
ed force, ihfy were convinced Nantz
fali. :i e infr.rre<ftion,which
was at firll but a were spark, a* it
" y T
were, and which promised :o be in
stantaneous and local only, had ac
quired Tuclv iicetigth ;v.k! ewnli.ien
cy, that uniels circumfcribetl, it was
to be dreaded that by degrees it
might become general'.
It was announced that the depart
ment la Manche was threatened
with famine.
Barrere in the name of the Com
mittee of Public Safety, entered in
to a detail of the present li; nation
bf the Republic. Every thing ac
cording to his ftatetnent, was as
well every where as it possibly could
be ; and Francs in all her points ivai
impregnable.
This faithful portrait the mem
ber contrasted with another, which
represented the Powers united a
gainli France as in the rnoft poHibl<j
state of diftmion and difc«rdance.
As all this was mighty consolatory,
Barrere's Report was crowned ft'iih
applauses.
Mat 8.
A Deputy of Indre and Loire was
admitted to the bar.
I come, said he, to demand the
fpeedieftand molt eflfeiftual succours.
The National Convention appears
to have been abuled on the realiry
of our dangers. The Western De
partments are 110 less agitated than
ours, by the too common calamity
of treachery and coutuer-revoiutioii.
A war more difaftrnus that) that we
wage against Francis or Frederick
William dfefolates and threatens to
annihilntethe Republic. The coun
ter-revolutionary traitors prefeut
themfelvea in several points at once,
in columns of from ten to twelve
fhonfand wen. I demand of yet:,
Legiiiiiors, by what fatality it is
the Executive Council has left us
two jnonths without arms and with-
out men '
" By what fatality have the bat
talions ordered to us been counter
manded ? If the end of these schemes
have been tofavor the insurgents.to
open their way to Paris, it is fulfill
ed. The territory of Indre and
Loire is fubjecfted by the traitors ;
the city of Chinon is now, perhaps,
in their hands, and they have seized
on DietTuire, Tours, and Loudun ;
the latter of which places, alter
throwing down the Tree of Liberty,
did not scruple voluntary to open
gat e
" On the receipt of tliis intelli
gence, Legillators, the .Adiiviniltra
ors resolved to repair to Chinon,
.vhere all the citizens were mufter
;d in the name of the law, anil futn
inoned to follow. This rampart of
our fafety is, however, far from im
pregnable : and unless you instant
ly fend us men, arms, and ammuni
tion, we cannot answer for any the
fmallell chance of the public fafety.
" I therefore demand, in the
name of the department, that the
Executive Council instantly dispatch
for C hinon and Tours,all the troops
at its disposal ; that to expedite
these succours, the battalions which
lhall be thus collected be embarked
on the Loire, as soon as they can
reach the banks of that river ; and
that all the disposable final) arms,as
well as cannon, (lores, and ammu
nition of every description, follow
them. Six hundred thousand livres,
at least, ought besides to be sent to
the Department."
Bentabole demanded that alarm
guns fliould be dilcharged inftani ly,
the tocfiu founded, and all civil mat
ters suspended. He proposed that
each individual, having a male do
mcllrc, fhonld supply two men arm
ed and equipped.
Thuriot demanded that the ter
ritory of Liege fliould be united to
the French Republic. It was lug
gefted that the inhabitants ought to
SATU RDAYj JULY 20, 1795.
M»y 3.
473
} " ; '' ■
foe confalter! : couriicl was
>iver-awed—jthe Union •**«»djpcresf| 4 '
and tfte pro)>ei^CiJiJttrHkt'eo ctiargp'v \
to traine an Act for that purpose.
MAy IT.
A letrer from Talien, commission
er in the departmetlis of lndre et
Loire, and Loire et Cher, dated
Tours, May ] o—dating lhai falfe
and alarming news wasdaily (plead
ing by the enemies of t he Republic,
reCpecfting the fuccefles of ihe infur
geiHs; and that an a
gent of Dumooricr, had, after the
example of his patron, betrayed the
iriterells ov his country, by opposing
little refinance, though he had scoo
men under his command,, to the
forces of the rebels. It was even
(aid, that he had induced his foldi
eis to fly before them. Talien ad
ded—that Loudun was evacuated ;
that the enemy would perhaps be in
pofleflion b£ it that day, and that
Here were only very tew troops to
copofe them. It was however hop
ed that a small army could be col
levied until the new battalions, so
long promised, should arrive.
Letterfrom Citizen i)evauliverd, to
Citizen Talien, dated Chinon,
May 8.
" We have heard the uoife of
cannon all this morning, which
makes us presume that Ligoniei' is
engaged. I hope that he will be
more courageous and less a traitor
than Qoetineau, the ci-devant adju
tant ol fiumourier, who, infteadjnf
fighting as he promiled before me,
Ail-rendered with goco nun ail arm
ed, whom he had in ihc tow n of
Thoiiars. Tlie brave Marfeillele
•.'-■rug merit praise—they tore down
the white flag which had been hoifl:-
ed j combatted like true republi
cans, and, though reduced ailength
to the number of fix, flill fought
till every man of ihem was cut ro
pieces. They formed themselves
into a square, and when their car
tridges failed, ihey fell furiotifly on
the infurgems with their fixed bay
onets. Had all the red of the troops
at Thouars followed their example,
it would have been (till free."
The Convention, after bearing a
report from the committee of pub
lic fafety, decreed that of the 2r ,000
men, making part of the levy of
300,000 decreed on (he 24'h of Fe
bruary, and now aH'einbied at Gre
noble, 8 battalions ihould be imme
diaiely organized to inarch againfc
the insurgents.
A letter was read from 3oi(T'et and
Moyre Bayle, Commidioners of the
Convention in the Department of
the Bouches-du Rhoine They an
nounce that all the nieafures which
they had ordered at Ma.rfeilles to
fecpi't the public welfare, had been
carried into execution with much
tranquility, when in :in inltant the
scene had changed—that the fedti
011s of Marseilles, which had con
stantly kept themselves within the
fii ft bounds of their duty, had cxer
cifed, and were now exercising pow
er without limits ; that they bad
created a popular tribunal, and had
anthorifed it to purfne all offences ;
that the constituted authorities were
by this means etnbarrafled in their
proceedings. One of the fecftions
deliberatt i upon lending a deputa
tion to the commirtioners j they
came to them in the night, made
them get out of bed, and forced
them to break open a bureau, of
which their secretary had the key.
They did this to examine their cor
respondence, They ordered them
to depart in twenty-four hours, un
der pain of being arretted. On
their arrival at Avignon, they had
nearly been mallacied.
The Commiflioners made a dccree,
of which the following is the f'ub-
n'
' '■ V.
[Whole No. 44 I.]
(lance : 11 Considering that The fcr-
Jlions of Mirfeilles, comoflfed to:'
f finne ri rne f)Ttt*i>l*fnCixet't ed perfous,
manifHied all evident 1 end en
cj" to fedei'alifni, ilifv uecieed iss
follows -
id, I'hat ihc Popular Tribunal
grftahlifhed :it Mai'feilles is a-mmlied.
2d, The "Central Committee ett -
blilhetj to rceeive secret vlcnuuciaii
o»s is aiuuilled.
gtl, The Presidents of ilie fedti
oiis aie (rtrfonally responsible for
the criminal decrees wliicli may be
made.
4111, The Commissioners sent from
Marseilles, Aix, and Toulon, shall
' be''denounced and prosecuted ac
cording to law."
After a very long difenflion, the
Convention suspended 1 he execution
ariet. ur.til afier tlie.ieport
of the Com mil see of Public Saferj.
l,el'erfrom Citizen Gafpariti, Comnilj/ioner
Nortkcrir/frity, dated Otthies,
May Q.
41 1 herewith transmit you a report of the af
fair of yeflerdav, which has been just now sent
to me by General Lamoliere. I can warrant
the truth of it, as I never quitted him a moment
fihee our departure from Liilc, and as I have
fees every thing he did, and all tlie jprivate ac
counts which he received. What he fays re
fpe&ing the firmnefs of the soldiers of the Re
public is ftri&ly agreeable to truth.
" In an expedition in which all the wants of
the troops could not be supplied at the mom nt
notwithflanding the attention of the General
and the Adminiilrators, our bravs defenders te
ftifitid no tineafinefs, except on account of the
enemy not being near enough that they might
engage them. In the concise account of the
General, I find that he has forgot to mention,
that at ten yesterday evening, as we were retir
ing to headquarters, we oblerved the Abbey of
Vigogne in flames. It was set »n fire by our
howitzers, and as the flames raged violently, I
an>induced to think that rhc of the
enemy must be consumed ; and I have no doubt
that we {hall be mailers of them to-day.
"P. S. Prisoners taken at Vigogne arccon
tinually arriving. There area great many Eng
lish amongfl them. In the lafl convoy there
were 14 of Englifli, all wounded."
Report of General LamorUere.
" The affair of the Bth has been mod glori
ous for the arms of the republic, and proves in
the bell manner the dignity of the cause lor
which we are fighting. At fevcVi in the morn
ing, for such were the orders of Gen.Dampierre
the commander in chief, the different corps of
which my small army is composed, attacked
the advanced polls of the enemy. The firingj
was commenced by the division under the com
mand of Gen. Defpourches, who was charged
to dislodge the enemy from the Abbey of Vi
gogne, and from the differerif entrenchments
which they had in the wood of St. Amand. The
Gen. and our brave brethren in arms presented
themselves with unexampled courage and intre
pidity. They overcame incredible obstacles, as
1 at every Hep they found entrenchments, from
which they drove the enemy, who were every
where far superior in number, notwithstanding
batteries of 17 p unders which they continually
employed againlt us.
" Defpourches had taken post on the platform
of the Abbey of Vigogne, where he entrenched
himfelf, and kept up a brilk fire from a quarter
past 7 in the morning until 9 in the evening, (
fuccefsfully sent him a supply of provisions and
ammunition, which he in vain expedted from
Valenciennes. This General Officer used all his
efforts to have his right wing covered by the
left flank of Gen. Hedonville, who attacked
Rhemes at the fame time, but he could never
succeed, except in regard to the few chasseurs.
It appears that the enemy lott a great number
of men, we had also some brave foldieib killed.
" This division lay on their arms all night, in
the wood of St. Amand, retaining their porti
on, and will this morning continue their at
tack, which cannot be made v/ith advantage un
less they can unite on the right wing with
divisions ordered to dislodge the enemy from the
wood of Rhemes.
" At tlie moment when Defpourches attacked
with my advanced guard, I marched against the
enemy encamped near St. Amand in two differ*
ent points.
" They made a more feeble defence than they
did the preceding evening, and endeavoured to
draw me ne»r the town or the causeway ; but
having determined not to take poff-ffiofi of it
till they should be driven from Rhemes and Vi
gogne, I occupied them in different point* and
ar different times, to render my diverlion more
ufeful.
" I dire&ed several attacks on my left, both
against Leccllea and against a mill where the
enemy were potted, andfioxn which they were
Ppo?rr. v.;:!i 1. f . M,- f:c j un
der the cci:n{> at a!.,..id.-, v.'li.-r- they were cii
-1.. - ;.a.t ;■ .i
»'•.* J > j«t: raL.: •.Yen* going to ciw-iii'.:
. t i tlficc Ii«l; ana
piccciof C£ivji;n to my puU.ol Bd<c .-'orc.^
" ii*ncf*\ CZirfum«*iiM who wis ordsic4 «D
ka p upea :ny comu'Ji.JCitior... from B-.lla PorW.-
m Iwthe, (cvtral times cheeked iheene*
my, who endeavoured to turn my iff; fiant, and r
tO CUt off U'»y HitJc. t
, , . .«* DaniMUjTe had written to mc to
4*cpy.r to him ni ; i-l!,or to ic'.:d tohini acc ..i
---dcntial per Jon. I charged with this million Ad
jutant General Dupont, and • could not have
tiioi'jii one more diltinguilhci in every re:pc&,
or who is more zealous iu the ct
Kepufclic.
<l I cannot too much praifethe courage of our
bradefenders, they displayed Republican Va
lour, aad ob«erv*u a discipline ■which gives the
greatrlt hopes of the success of our arms. 1 hey
.lie fatigued, but they never lose that chcerful
uef's w'iii.h is infepersble irom a good caule.
" My finall army coniifls of troops from Dou
ay, the camp near Lille aiid die advanced polls
ot the latter.
"P. S, At nine this morning the troops are
underarms. They will keep the enemy in
check while Dtfpourches is making efforts to
drive them from the Abbey of Vigogne. I have
no doubt'of their fwc'ceft if they can be joined by
Kedonville. lam going to proceed to his poll
when I .have vifitcd those which are in front and
on my left fisnk."
'hUMMUNS OF DUNKIRK.
Le ter from Cjpu u Cicnmus, com madding a
fqu«diu*< l»«!> Biiunmc M. jetty belore
Du'ikn k, i v Gin. Pjfcai X renvcycr, April 24.
"Six,
44 Having tlje honor to command a fousdron
of thips o! war o! his ISritanmc Maj , delbn-
before Dunknk; and «e;idy 10 co
operate with Vtoe threes that are advancing by
land if) reduce »I .it row»r, one*. *•> fl uiin'bing, I
lake ih»' liberty to inform you, thai if you have
any proposal* to make, to * ndeav >r to chcck the
progrt fs of a which mini infallibly i'ltvolvtf
the town and inhabitants ot Dunkirk tr> total
ruin and dclli u&ion, I *m ready to rcct ive lUcm,
and to insure inviolability ot persons and pio
perty.
si I invite you, Sir, and all the inhabitants of
Dunkirk, to take into fenous consideration the
lad effctU which will ret'ult to you arid your
families from refuting this conciliatory offer to
prevent a farther ctFufion of blood, and tor put
ting an end on your part to a war lo deftt u£tive
lo the true ot your country.
44 I am lent to offer you the protection of a
great and honorable power, until youi Conflitu
tion shall be eUabiilKed o«i a (olid basis.
44 I Ihould not have detained the filhing boat
les Trvis Suurs, MatHieU Charles Kezel.
had not a brfilKh ptivateer 011 <Fnci&y lad taken
two English fifhing boats, between Folkltone
and Dover. I had no orders to moicft induf
triaus filhcrmcn. I iranfmiued orders to rhc
O dicer who commands the naval forces of his
Britannic Majetty ;>t Oft'-nd, to set at Viberty the
fifherman Kczel. whom I now fend to Dunkirk
with this letter i having detained his son as an
hottagc til 1 , he brings me back an answer. I de
clare on my honor, that when I rrceivc it, I
{hall.teleafe the boat of M. C. Kczel, and his
crew, to go wherever they may choose, and pay
him also tor his iroub.e.
41 I declare solemnly, on the honor of an En
glish officer, that if any person tiorn Dunkirk,
will do me the honor to come and treat with
me personally, his suite, boat and crew, shall
remain facrtd, and that they shall have full li
berty to return to Dunkirk whenever they think
proper. 44 I am, Sir,
41 yotir mod obedient
44 humble fervan%
44 JOHN CLEMENTS, fenr.
4S Commanding tlie squadron o( the ships of
44 h ; s Britannic Majcfty, before Dnhki. k."
Ctrpy 0 j the ar.fwer oj Brigadier-General Kercnvcyer,
Comma nda at at Dunkirk.
44 SIR,
11 I have received the letter which you took
the trouble to write to me to announte your
plans, and the orders with which you are
charged. I have only a few words to fay in re
ply, ami theft are, that neither I, who have the
honor to command in Dunkirk, nor any of the
inhabitants or citizens, will ever liftentoany
propofa!'tending to di(honor the French name.
It is useless therefore' to lose time in epiftdlary
correfjjondence, which would become tedious,
and be at least illegal. Do me the hgnor to
attack inc in a military manner, and I (h<tll have
that of answering you — for it ifi in this manner
that difcuflions ought lo be terminated between
people of our cloth.
Signed,
PASCAL KERENVEYER,
" The Biigadicr Genera) Commandant of the
" DUrift oh Dunkirk."
FR ANCKFORT, May i
At one o'clock in the morning of the ?.8 h
ull. the French landed near Guftavcfburg, Aided
unperccived between the advanced posts, then
advanced and mounted on the parapet ol a bat
ter}, at which a derarhment of Pruflian can no-,
i»errs had been wot king all night, and where
they were at that very moment reposing their
weaiied limbs.
The attack was so unexpected, that thole who
were not at fir it killed, or made prisoners, en-
to fjve themfrlves in the neighbour
ing batteries; but the French pursued them so
clofrly, that the Sixon troops, charged with the
guard.of the other batteries and entrenchments,
alio yielded to the impetuosity of the aifrfiU
piiis, in spite of all the endeavors ot th"ir officers
to prevent them. The enemv thefi spiked up
the large artillery, rohorns, See. and took away
their cirriawes,. ana B|fo. three (mall cannon.—
M. de LuSen, a brave Pruflian officer of artil
lery, was killed upon this occasion, as were also
a gr. ai number of niatroflT s; M. de Rabe,
Li -ut, of artillery, and many of the privates be
longing to his corps, were taken prisoners.
Such W2s the coniufion that entiled in conse
quence of this nocturnal expedition, that the
German peafanls iu the neighbourhood drove
?-;d t«»c Saxons fcnl their
jctob ihf rui'r.
. I noi i< fe one mar. ; »I»r
fii/'piiiiv -• vi« k3b to be uuat>ic to fixc i
can-;'."- u tr»crn,
I. K C, HORN, April ?3.
"y a fivp ai:ivvd Iwit from BtfUia, in the
ifUnd ol liain, tint (,chci»l Pioii
-.ha# »r'« r c<l I" nlif'y ihe Decree brought to him
Vy the Com::riri.)no:i, wish orderj to condiiS
him 10 ilu- if' "I ih NrtimM Convention.
B E L F ii s i', Mav ai.
FROM TIIF. LOSbON GAZtt f'E.
May 14.
Extralofa Letter from Cou'inJSir lama \furraj
Hait. Adjutant General to the forces unit' the
to Mi. Sccutdi, Duniu 1, tlwl [ournay trh) 10,
■*33-
In confeouence of the movement* of lk)*e*
enemy, wmc.i 1 :>ve re.tfon ti> expe<st an at-!
tack uNn the Austrian and PruiEan putts, liis-
Roval Hir.hncl's determined .10 march jn the
mo ning of the Bth to their fupporr. lie ar
rived about fix o'clock at the crjmp of Maul
de with the brigade of Gnartfs, and a battalion
of the loth lesiniunt ot Hanoverian infantry.
The Prufiian General was by this mean 1 ! ena
bled to reinforce himfelf, at St* Amand and
the adjoining wond, with the troops which had
occupied that important position.
The attack commenced about 7 o'clock.
It was directed agitnft the posts occupied by
Scheldt to the Abbayc da Vigogne, and the
Pruliian corps which defends the wood in the
front of the high road, leadinglroui that pUc'
to ?t. Am tnd.
To these paints were directed the whole
efforts of the French army, which had been
previously reinforced by all they could bring
together from every quarter. General Kno
bteldorif having been under the neccifity of
fending a confutable part of the troops to
lupport the Auftrians at the Abbaye de Vi
gogne, his Royal Highness about 5 o'clock,
lett two battalions in the camp ai Manioc,
and marched with the Coldftream, the flank
battalion, and that of the third regiment, to
his support.
When the battalion of the Coldftream,
which was upon the left, arrived, the enemy
had nearly reached the road ; they abeady
commanded it to a great degree, by the fire ;
the guns attached to the battalion were pla
ced up(ii) it, and by a well directed and well
supported fire, kept the battery which was
opposed to them in check, and did considera
ble execution.
The battalion advanced into the wood, at
tacked and drove the enemy before them :
in going,for ward they, became unfortunately
exposed to the fire of a battery, from which
they filtered severely. They fell back to
their position at the edge of the wood, which
they maintained for the reft of the day, not
withstanding a heavy cannonade ; the enemy
made no attempt to approach them. Nothing
can exceed the spirit awd bravery displayed by
the men and officers of the battalion upon
this occaiion ; nor is less praise due to the
alacrity and intrepidity with which the
other battalions advanced into adtion.
They took different positions in the wood,
where they were at times exposed to a severe
cannonade, from which, however, tiiey re
ceived little injury, the direction of tile fire
being in general above theni. There were
seen this morning between forty and fifty of
the French lying dead upon tiie spot upon
which the lire of the Coldftream and of its
guns hats been directed. Major General
Lake commanded the battalions which went
into action ; and his Royal Highness declar
ed he was much indebted to him for his ex
ertions.
The importance of the service rendered
by his Majesty's troops upon this day has
been acknowledged in the (IrOngeft and mo(t
most explicit teifris by the Generals of the
different armies; and if by their trmely co
operatiwn the enemy were prevented from
advancing upon the high road, it cannot be
.doubted that they contributed, in a' vefy
degree, to secure the fortune of the day.
At the Abbaye de Vigogne and the village
ofßaimesthe a&ion continued with'a.lmoft
equal and unremitting violence, tils 8 o'clock
in the evening : General Clairfayt was every
where fuccefsful in maintaining his ground ;
the enemy, however, though balH«l and de
feated in their purport?, remained in the woods
within a very small distance of his
During the action they cannonaded the Prus
sian camp near St. Amand. lam not exattly
informed what mealures they took in order
to keep the Prince of Cobourg in check, but
it appears that nothing of moment patted in
that quarter.
Upon the following day, t!ic grh, there ( was
but little firing, and it was not known, what
might be the intention of the enemy. His
Royal High'nefs thought it therefore proper
to let thejtroops remain till the evening at
St. Amand and Maufde. Every thing being
quiet, and intelligence having been received
troops opposed to lieneral Knobelf.
dorfF were retreating, they began their march
for Tour nay, but he was (topped at tlue -vlft»
lageofMaulde by a meflage *om General
Clairfayt, informing him that the enemy had
erected batteries all along his front, as well
as upon some part of General Knobelfdorffs,
which, if they were allowed to complete and
poflTefs, it would become extremely difficult
for him to maintain his position.—His Royal
Highness immediately (topped the march of
the troops, and went himfelf to St. Amand,
where he was met by Gen. Clairfayt and
Gen. KnobelfdOrff. It was agreed that the
Auftrians and Piufflani (houkl assault the
whole of the batteries at day-break, whilst his
Royal Highrtefs retained polfefijpij of the
camp of Maulde.
Tiiis was done accordingly had the df
474
(red frcce*. Thf sw*V '.ad tr-.thtfrat
ne,r c..n,.0.i i:. the..isbi !
trelv driven iVoin the batttr:«, ic-versl kil
ls], and upward; of I X) p. ifo«" tnken, with
a ve:y iiuoniiderable lols. fhus
uioti every occafmn, ?hc enemy eem to > ave
eit.rclv abandoned their deli-tt • tbe bouy
which came from Life ha* fallen back upon
Orchies. There i". firing to day at one otOen.
Ca:rfavt\ post«, but nothing which had the
appearance of a serious attack. By t'ie ac
con.it of deferte-s and prilpiters, they lolt
4.OJJ upon the Sth.—General Dtnipiere is
find to have received a wound, of which i.e
is iince dead. .
The troop 1 ! arrived this evening in their
former quarter*.
The Anftrians had upwaids of 5X> killed
and wounded, and the Pruilians 43a on the
Bth.
DUBLIN, May 23.
By Sir lames Murray's letter wc Jo not find
(hat the Frrnch, if th.-y did icallv 4 0c0
men on the 8 h, were much diilurbed by that
dreadful wailc of blood, for they not only kept
the field of battle, but fought again the r.ex; Jay,
and on the 10th it appears ihai they rented in
perfect order, caricd off their cannon, and were
neither pursued or annoyed by ihe combined
armies.
LONDON, May 15.
The Auft ians have made a requisition,
through a Britifli officer, to our government,
for various supplies, and among other arti
cles for 40,020 tons of hay, without which
they allure our Mini Iters that they cannot
keep the field.
The requifitioji fills, as we hear from ru
mour, sixteen pages of paper. All the ne
cpfTiries of flour, oats, beef, pork, and
in short, provisions of all kind, cl.oat.hs of ail
kind,,a.nns of all k'nd, (tores of all kind, &c.
Sic. are enumerated,and without our aid tl>ey
cann'Jt go on. These are pleasant circuni
ffances for a country already so deeply in
volved.
A pleasure boat belonging to Yarmouth, in
taking the diversion of (idling, and (hooting
at the rock birds beyond the Needles,has been
taken by a French privateer and carried in
to St. Maloes.
We underitand that the loss on both fides,
in the late engagement near C.onde, is much
was at fy*ft reported. The loss
of the French is stated ro be 2000 men, besides
26 pieces of cannon taken. The French Ge
nera) having been Completely foiled in the
objedl of his attempt, which was to throw
succours into Valenciennes and Conde, it is
thought both thole places will very speedily
surrender at discretion.
PORTSMOUTH, May 19.
The far) lowing, is an accurate ft ate of the
line of battle fliips to a<st under the command
of vice admiral Lord Hood, in the Mediter
ranean. Victory and Britannia, of ioo guns ;
Sf George, Wind for Castle, Princess Royal,
of 98 guns; Sgmont, Illustrious, Alcid?, Ter
rible, Agamemnon, Fortitude, ColoiFuv Cou.
rageaux, Captain, Leviathan, Robuit, Ber
wick, Bedford and Montague, of 74 guns ;
and the St. Albans and Ardent, of 64 tuns ;
with ado the r (hip of the line not yet ordered,
15 frigate l :, firefhips, Hoops, cutters, &c. in
all 6o pendants—-and are to be joined with
35 (hips of different rates, belonging to Spain.
As this immense force cannot he intended
toa& only against the French fleet in that
Tea, not above one third of its number or
strength, and as the ftiips carry a number of
flat-bottomed boats—there can be no doubt
whatever hut that both Toulon and JMar
fcilles will be attacked, and probably at the
fame time.
N A N T Z, April 24.
Confirmation oj the taking oj the Capital of Brittany
- 'J "r
- by th( Rayaliftf. ,
/The Patriots, finding thejnfelves defeatec
an to the prisons of Bouffiu and Chateau
prisons at Nantz) in which tiiey had flmt u]
i number of viftirns, males and females. \V
Jo not know the number of tbofe in the Cha
teau, but,we know that in the prifou u
Boufiai 22 were confined. Of this numbe
were MetfVs. de Menou, the lather and eldcl
son; M. de Vue, and his two Tone in law
two Mellieurs de B' ue du Cleray ; Villeaduc
an advocate ; M. Grandmaifon ; Arnould di
Cornileau; Richard de la Rouilliere,
brother of our late legitimate mayor ; and
Laurencin, and his four companions, with
wliofe names we are unacquainted.
The monsters had just time to butcher all
their victims in (hefe two prisons. But the
divine vengeance did not long delav the pu
nilhment due to their barbarity. The firft
care of the Roya.'ifts, on entering viftorioufly
intoNantz (an event which took place the
day before yeftcrday, alter the battle of Son
mere, fought on the 2ift, on the Kochclle
road, at two leagues distance from this capi.
tal) was to set free the prisoners. But they
were, alas! too late—they found them all
butchered, and floating in their blood, which
was still warm ! Then it was that, listening
to the impulse of their lage ouiy, they llew
every man t ley found in arms; not one of
whom escaped their just resentment; the
butchery was such, that the blood ran in ri
vulets through the ftrtets.
Thus ha* this juftifiable severity expiated
the high enorm'.ties of the Guillotine these
wretches kept in const uit readiness on the
square of Bouffai, and which, like the Idol of
Bel, daily devoured several viftinis. So nu
merous, were these that, to ovoid terrifying
the people, they had been under <he necessity
of iurround:ng it by a number of planks of a
certain height, and ot covering the floor of
the enclofuie with a deep layer of fatd, to the
end that the blood might be thus absorbed
ana prevented irom overflowing the square.'
United States.
EELIZA RE rH 1 UW-N,(M.)July 5.
La It week the ingenious ami ulu
lofnphic Mi. Chambers, us Mercers*
burgh, in Pennsylvania, Uvortd us
with a few experiments of his new
invented Fire Arms. He had but a
small piece with him, which,never
tlidefs, discharged fix balls in f uc .
ceiliun, with only 00ce loading and
once drawing the nigger, extTufive
of the refei v<- shot, which .went off
at the drawing another trigger. He
fired at a mark, and each b.iil f tPm .
Ed to the fame force and effect
as if loaded and fired in the common
manner, and from a common nuif.
ket. He informs ns that lie has
made another,* about thelize Q f a n
Engliill niufket, which will dilcharge
13or r 4 balls in the fame manner ;
which number of rounds, at clole
quarters (and in a serious engaoe
inent it is vague, in some cases more
dangerous to fight otherwise) will
very probably decide any battle.
There is a fufficiency of time be
tween each ftiot to take frelh aim.
This fee ins really to be a great and
important improvement office arms
—and it would be a pity that out
national legislature Ihould either
want power or inclination to avail
thenifelves of the invention.
But humanity, on the other hand,
whifpeis in our ear, Hay thy hand)
there are already too many inventi
ons to delti oy the life of man. Yet
as it has in a great measure been
demonstrated, that the invention of
gun powder and fire arms have been
the means of Caving many lives;
therefore, a farther improvement
in this science, according to purity
of reasoning, may be the means, in
the end, of laving (till more. How
ever, be this at it may, the govern
ment of a country ought to have
the power and the means, as well
of repelling invasion and (Inking
terror to an enemy, as ofexercifing
national lenity and humanity.
N E W-Y O Ii K, July , 0 .
In our Journal of the 3d lull. we
published an account ofthe entranc
es and clearances of veflels foreign
ports, and of coallers, at the port
of Philadelphia, for the last fix
months. A correspondent has fa
vored us with the fame, at the cus
tom house of this port, for the like
period. The following ltatenienc
of both is now presented for the in
formation of our readers :—
<! V s<i I.< ?
►»* o rs o on c -j
sr. f ? "H. s<? ?? 5 " ? -
k;»t
~. s | % = "?- r. L a 5'
o — 7Z -• to ' n>
3 2 o> -. 3 1 - 2 ~ 5 P
rs -» 2 < c" 1 T 1 -:
CL. O
r m ° "— w a" w _
- " » 3, « " 2>
5? =s.iy ?} I=. 2
J." s ra it|« R« 2
ctj "o 3 _"o -o 5
■<2 ;3 I? »« ~i
n» rt J. fro r* <8
<o z -i c c *r
•o-> 0 a. O 7T -- ~ '— o !C
Ships 72 73 I 49 8 5 3 6
Brigs,&c.'n'r in 91 114 57
Sch'rs. 51 70 19 J7 76 19
Sloops, 44 ji 7 jj 64 I?
273 305 27 Z4B 37-3 12*
Coasters, 351 538 187 219 516 296
July 16
Extract of a letter from a Captain o£an Ame
rican vessel at St. Euftatia,dated 23d June,
1 793) received yesterday.
44 The privateers play the deuce
with the American vessels, that have no lea
letters or pass—- that is to fay ft bey carry them
into port, overhaul them front stem to stern,
and oftentimes detain them a week or more '
they go through an examination, in which
they are sworn and qoeftioned by the king' 3
attorney, whatever Jie pleases to alk, which
inuft be very embarrafiing."
In honor of the day (14th July) a number
of patriotic French and American citizens as
sembled at Corre's, where an elegant «ntei
tainment was provided ; the national colours
of France and the 13 stripes of America weff
displayed in several parts of the city—and m
the evening art invitation was given by the
'fammany Society, to the French Consul
other citizens, at their Wigwam, where a cold
c ollation was provided.
EXAMPLE FOR CHARACTER WRIT)
F ROM THE AUGySTA CHRONICLE
LAST Sunday morning, Mrs. Li lius
breathed Iter la ft, in the 79- h year ofr a lite ac
voiid io virtue.
In her last y.vars (Tic fuiFercd much affl ,^ ,on »
with ihnt temper and disposition which
a resigned will; andmetdcaih, <»« Krr dcli^ tr
from pain ana forrovv, in confidence of'the re
furreclion of the jujl.
? s*
►< tr
c7'be following beautiful ODE was sung
at the celebration of the Feflival of
St. "John, the 24th ult. by the Masonic
fraternity, at Newport.
GIVE to Heroes all their due,
Twine their brows with laurels too ;
But (hall wc no laurels find,
For our love to human kind ?
Let the social virtues shine,
Doing good is fuie divine.
A MASQiNIC ODE.
Tune — God save Great Washington
THOU felf-exiftent Lord,
Thou all-cresiivt word,
Spirit of pow'r;
Accept our notes of praise,
O thoa ancient of days,
Accept our feftive lays,
In this <jlad hour.
11.
Let all exalt their voice*
Let all at once rejoicc,
To found thv Fame
Thou Great! Great A»chiie&,
Thy children all connett,
With love and joint refpeft,
To bless thy Name.
111.
From all beneath the ikiei,
Jehovah's praiie arise,
His Name confefs'd ;
And may his sovereign grace
Shine upon cv'ry face,
And render Adam's race,
Happy and blefs'd.
tKOU great firft cause, whose w'fdom plan'd,
Whose pow'r atchuv'd the boundless fchcme,
The maicblefs fabric of thy hand,
Proclaims the Architect Supreme.
Ye Angels that surround his throne,
Who form'd at firft his joyful fain,
When lay the ftHAndation
As then ye fhoutVd—-fhout again.
With us let ev'ry heart be love,
Let ev'ry tongue be grateful praise ;
Let cv'ry thought be realms above,
Let cv'ry voice be choral lays.
Extrafl from a publication in a Baltimore paler,
41 T TCTHILST thousands and tens of thou-
VV fends of our fellow creatures are
exterminating one another from the face of
the earth, we repose in the lap of peace and
. liberty, war, the scourge of mankind, being
at a great di ft a nee from us.—We all rejoice in
ttut ftt icfc neutrality, which has been wifely
determined upon, and all unite in hope, that
it inay not ba interrupted. There are how
ever some amongst Als, who do not scruple to
assert, that the admiflion.of French privateers
with their prizes, and liberty <*f laie, in our
ports, will ultimately involve tb»s country in
a dispute with England. I know not whe
ther fueh remarks flow from a spirit irritated
at feeing English prizes only carried in ; or
from a diabolical wish of once more feeing
tbe banners, of. de r potrfra waning our happy
mores ; or, perhaps, flowing from a heart
fearful Of our peace and harmony being in
danger of interruption—God, who kuotvs the
heart, only knows from what motives such
fentimenti are propagated !—Sure I am that
they are impolitic and indecent.—The right
of admitting privateers and their prizes into
the ports of neutral nations, has never been
queftionecl ! Neutral ports are a fan&uary
{or all the powers at war ; the produce and
manufactures of other nations are vended
therein and by reason of their neutrality, they
soon become rich and prosperous ! Previous
to the late war, Oftend was an inconsiderable
port, and the most filthy in Europe ; having
the benefit of neutrality, it soon rose into
consequence——privateers with the prizes
flocked to it—sales were freely permitted—
merchandise, to a vast amount, were carried
thither from all nations—the riches of the
E*aft and Weft flowed into Oftend, and at
length the emperor Joleph, sensible of the vast
advantages it enjoyed from its state of neu
trality, enlarged and beautified the harbor,
removed many of the natural obftru&ions
that rendered the entrance dangerous, andjt
now Alines as one of the firft commercial ci
ties in Europe. Lisbon was open for the re
ception of the velfels and prizes of -the pow
ers at war (Americans I think only excepted,
whose independence Portugal had not ac
knowledger!) and I believe in no cafe was
sale? prevented. "We all know the advanta
ges Euftatia ei joyed, by reason of the neu
trality of Holland, and would have continued
to enjoy, if the court of Great-Britain had
not reason 10 think a feciet treaty was en
tered into between Holland and this country,
and in consequence declared war ! And was
not the good effects of their neutral condi
tion felt by all theDanifh Weft-India lfl&nds?
—Why therefore bellow against the govern
ment of this country, and express fear and
appiehenfions of war being the consequence
of actions which are the practice of neutral
independent nations (existing treaties altoge
ther out of the qneftion).—Such gentlemen
would do wellto refrain from such observa
tions, which can do no good, but much hartn,
til! they fee the conduct of government to
Brit;fb ci uizers, with French prizes, if arty
ihouid arrive among us. M
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at tU PORT oj PHILADELPHIA.
Brig Nancy, Sha«lcy, Poitlmouth, N- H.
Maty, Chipman, Lofton
Sloop Merrirrac. Mitchri, do.
t RICE QF STOCKS..
6 P" Cell!, 18/2
3 P" C'-ou, !C)l
Dclcrted, ji/s
lull (bjics Hank U. 3. 5 per tent. adv.
Philadelphia, Jafy 20.
Yesterday arrived here the ship John, Capt.
Whiteweil, in 56 days from Amsterdam—a
Dutch paper of the i6th May brought by this
vessel contains an acconnt said to have been
received at the Hague byexprefs from Prince
Saxe Cobourg's army—of a battle fought on
the nth May, between the French and the
combined army—-in which the French were
defeated with the loss of nine thoufaud men
killed, wounded and taken, and eighty-four
pieces of cannon ; the account adds, that the
commander in chief of the French was killed.
—This is probably a repetition oj the ajjair of the
%th with additions.
The account 1 ? in general received by this
veflel are as vague and indefinite as those
through other mediums.
Extra£l of a letter from a rcfpeflable Merchant in
Baltimore, to hi ffriend in this city % dated the 16th
in /lant.
" A veflel from Cork in 32 days, brings an
account of the defeat of the combined armies
at Conde, and of an immense (laughter among
them.
" The French armies have been so fuc
cefsful, that the people throughout England
and Ireland, are feekingfor peace, and it was
the prevailing opinion it would soon take
place, highly in favor and much to the honor
of tbe French nation."
Further accounts by the late European arri
vals inform, th-t the attack pr fturrning of Meuiz
or Mayence, was to be tfiretted by Gen. Tuipin,
and that the bombardment of that city was be
gun. Gen. Ctiftine's army, confiding of 40000
men, was strongly intrenched within \he lines of
WeiflTemburg behind the Lamer— t)iis army is
said to be coiripofed ot men either too young or
too old, the confcquence of forced recruiting.
The Auftrians f«v that a great many cUfertcrs
come over to them from Outline, and from
Maytnce—in the iatlrr they ast reduced to the
nereflity of killing the artillery horses. and fair
ing them—though the fame accounts lay t •ry
have meat fufficicnt for fix months. A letter
fmm Gen. Cufline, dated April ?8. fays, that in
a sortie and in some attacks on Meniz on the
nth and 14th, the Heffiansand Saxons loft 2000
men. In confluence of Dumouriei's treache
ry, the National Convention have pubhfhed an
address " /<? all people and all governments —this
refpefts principally the breach ot the law of na
tions in fci?ing Bournonville and the Commis
sioners. A motion was made in the Conven
tion on the 30th April by M. Guadet, that as
the Convention was no longer refpe&ed, as the
galleries hilTcd every member they difl.ked,
no protection, that the fittings should in future be
and the authorities ot Paris offered the members
held at Vt rfailles—no decision on this motion
appears, Catnbon rendered an account of tht
armies; that of the North he ftatea to consist of
96000 eff-£live men ; that of the Ardennes ae
37000 ; that of the Mofclle and of the Rhine
com pleat ; that of the Pyrenncs had been sud
denly augmentod by a great number of men—
50000 directed their march towards
The Spanifn invasion, Cambon said, had turned
out to be nothing of consequence, their forces
consisted only of a few vagabonds who came
for the fake of plunder—and that they were
beaten back. [An account published in this city
has Jlatedthe Spanijh forces dejlined to invade France
at 120,000.] A letter from Gen. Biron, at
Nice, of 22ci April, gives an account of some
advantages gained by the French uflder his com
mand over the Sardinians; 100 of the latter
were killed, and 20 wounded ; of the French
only 5 killed and 10 wounded.—The militia of
Ireland arc embodying by order of the British
and I rifh governments; to this measure some
oppofilion has been made in some place?. The
lift of bankrupts in England had cncreafed ; the
calamity had reached Ireland, the government
ot which was taking meafurt* for the lupport
of the public credit.
The Court ot Lisbon has ordered a cruize in
the Streights of Gibraltar against the French,
confifttng of a ship of the line, lout frigates,and
several vcfTels of less size.
The late action neai Conde was, by all ac
counts, very bloody. The French fought lor
the purpose only of covering some relief which
they wiflied to throw into Conde, and in this
tis said they partly luccceded.
The Dutch are fitting out a fl-et of 10 ships of
the line and 10 frigates, and 3,500,000 florins
have already betn issued out foi that purpose.
An English frigate had taken a French East-
Indiaman from Pondicherry to France, valued
at 130,0001. but at this rich prize was fleering
for England, she was re-la ken by the Robert
privateer of Nantes.
A plague rages at Algiers, which carries off a
great many peifons daily.
The city ot Gottenburg, in Sweden, has great
ly fuffered by fire ; 73 fine houses have been
burned, and upwa«ds of 141 families, be fides
the garrison, have loft the whole of their pro
perty.
A letter from General Cuftine dated May
7, appears in the English papers in which
he requests the Convention to fend him a fuc
ceffor—heing positively determined to reiign,
in consequence as he fays of being brought to
a trial before three comiliiflioners on the 27th
April.
At Richmond, Peterfburgh, Alexandria and
several other places in Virginia, fub(cription<?
have been opened with success,. for tlie relief
of the unfortunate fugitives from Cape Fran
cois.
A paflenger of refpelability in the ftiip
Sally, arrived at Baltimore, in seven weeks
from Limerick, informs, that juil before they
failed, if was currently reported theie, that
the combined armies had retired from before
Conde, and that 6dd of the Britifli guards had
fell in an action with the French, who had also
made prisoners of two officers ot diftin&ion
in the Austrian army, and that the brave pa
triot and valiant general Dampierre, had
killed in an engagement with the enemy near
Co ode-
475
r l fjfin{• of appear-? so catch
t»*om irywn to town, and ciry to city, 1:1 the
United as f.tr as the means will
go to effe 1 it, we doubt not the diftrelfes of
every iuifsrer from the Cape will-be allevi
ated.
1 uefday l'ift a company of Militia, from
the regiment of Artillery, marched from this
city, under the command of Capt. Seitel, to
perform duty at Fort Mifflin.
We are informed that 30 fail of the French
ftips now lying in Hampton road are expert
ed to come round to this city in a few days.
The brig Little Democrat came to anchor
at N&wcaftJe on Tuesday night, and got un
der way on Wednesday morning, having 123
men Km board.
On the 7Mi of May, in the Parliament of
IJreat-Brirain,--after a Jong debate, in which
Mie'H»>iife exceedingly clamorous, on
ttie propofiti<>o of JVIr. Grey, for a committee
ot'euqairy intd the parliamentary represent
ation, a divilion tookyMace at 4 o'clock in the
morning, when there appeared
Againll the nvotuu 282
For the motion 41
241
Majority
THcf is a report in town, fays a Balvimore
paper, that Col. Pajor marchcd froui Foit-Diu
phin with h>s own regiment and a few volun
teers, agdinft the mulattoes and negroes, at Cape
Francois l —that the Colonel had entirely defeated
them, and got poffclhon of the tow n. Daring
the engagement Sonthonax loft his head.
Amrtg tfie numerous. HJls of Toajls given on the
wet-to-be-commemorated j'onrih of July—the jol
fmuitig are Jele&ed as breathing the genuine Jen
timevti of patriotism, philanthropy, peace and
freedom. They were drank at Richmond, Vir
ginia—and mujl vibrate in vnifon uith the Jeel
i"gs oj every real friend to the United States, and
the hsppinejs »f man.
I- THE, people of the United Spates-—May
ttay ever have reason to celebrate che re
turn of this auspicious day.
2. The Prefident s os the United States—
May tiie love and confidence of his feliow
citiz?ns increase with his exertions for the
public good, and may his late iignal atten
tion to the ti ue imerefts of the United States
in conserving to them the bleflings of peace,
receive the applause and gratitude of the
pre fen t age, and of future generations.
3. The people of France—May their ef
forts to obtain political happiness be crown
ed with the permanent eftabliihmsnt of a
free and equal government.
4. May the empire of reason extend over
the globe, and government be confide red bv
all nations but as the instrument of human
happiness.
5. May a difference in political sentiment
produce no other ctfeft in America, than a
full and dispassionate investigation of political
principles.
6. May harmony and confidence in our na
tional cpu-tils, cnofpii* to give efficacy and
success to our national meajuves ; and may
all public men lose the spirit of faction in the
love of their country.
7. May the commerce of America be free
as her government.
8. May our negociations with the Indian
tribes terminate the necessity and calamities
of war ; or, may the valour of opr army pro
cure for their country that peace which her
justice and leuity shall be unab'e to obtain.
9. The Marquis De ]a Fayette—May the
people of America forever pay to him the
jnft tribute of gratitude, and may they con
tinue to esteem him in his adversities, as they
justly loved and admired him in the splendor
of his fortunes.
Ip. May our valour in war be equalled on
ly by our wisdom in peace.
is. May the constitution of the United
States be forever kept inviolate by those who
shall be intrusted with its adminiitration.
12. May the industry of our people, and
the wi'Vlom and miklnefs of our laws, render
,thff United States the emporium of the world,
and an asylum to the human race.
The memory of those brave citizens who
feJHn the cftablifhment of American liberty.
14. The fair daughters of America.
15. Peace and happiness to all the nations
bf the earth.
The following toajls wete given at Wilkcjbuirc t
Luzerne L aunty, at the celebration oj indepen
dence the 4th infant.
*. The day.
2. The United States of America—May
their conftitutipn and laws be the models
from which all the nations of the earth ftiall
be taught the true combinations of perleft
freedom.
3. The President of the United States
4. The Vice-Prcfident of the United States,
J. The Congress of the United States —
May the bafj? of their proceedings be the hap
piness of the people.
6. The French Nation. —May they be fuc
celsful and finally eftabliih their freedom.
f. Citizen Gentt.
8. The Governor and State of Pennsylva
nia—May ii forever flounfn in her agricul
ture, commerce and manufactures.
9. Our filter States.—Ma) our union be
forever.
13. The memory of thafc Tieroes who no
bly fought and bled in tbs caufe.of Liberty in
America.
ii. SuccePs to the arras of our Weftero
irmy.
12. The rights of man.
13. The armies of France May the
swords be beat to plough /hares when liberty
prevails among the nations of the earth
ly. The comity of Luuroe.—May virtue
and qni?n ensure the pi ofperity of its inha
t»it»ots.
IJ Tie Fair of America.
r»<>lilic?ns dr~w .? I'fir df!
li.»u net en t!ie cita;>ii'rt> «i U)
people, ihc peopi- ihetftfVives, take therro-L
measure 10 ro.iier 3 republican !vli » •
odi'. t j s _ 3 , u j evince thjt ihe puffut or,tir
thm*s which thev have no l.*ucl n* di'c-c;as o) is
ihcit only grievance.
Our ncwfpapers abntfnd vnth accounts oF
abuses and depredations commuted on our-trade
and Cooimtree by the Bitfith pHVfsen s,; Isu:,
fays a correfpoftdeiit, we do not hear ol *.i.v
memorials* reprcfentations or r (Om»H:r;ir;< es.
being made or prcfenird 10 the executive oi in-
United States, by perlon or p i fins on the
fubjVft.
The preservation of the government, peace
and neutrality of the Un ted Stares, is oi im
portance to every citizen who polfeftes, or
experts to po/Tels any property-*—and their
fubverftorj Caa only be an ol j (ft of pur fait to
those who expe& to gain by anarchy and con
iufion. This is n fiiort account of the buli*
ness—'jut it is a true one.
Sunday Jafl being the anrilverfary of the
deftroftion of the BaltiJe by the citizens of
Paris, its approach was announced the pre
ceding evening, at Baltimore* by the firing
ol cannon by the French veffeh in that port,
who at sunrise, hoisted their colours and fired
a fa.'ute, which was repeated every hour
thiough the day.
The Governor of Maflachufetti having been
fetved with a summons by John Brooks, Esq.
ni»r(hal of the Federal Court of the United States,
"Williani ValTill
complaiuant, in equity, versus
tin Commonwealth of MafTachufetts defendant
has ifTucd his proclamation for convening the
two houTea of the Legislature, on the 18 li Sep.
tembe:—-" it being a matter, fays the proclama
tion, in which th. inhabitants of this free
Commonwealth are deeply intended—»and
which will inquire the confide! ation of the Ge
neral Court at an earlier time than that 10 which
they were adjourned."
Madame Doutti, wile of M. DoiiTTf, an
inhabitant da quartier dr Vallieret, loft her htif
band in the disasters of the Cape on the aotfi
June lad. She is ignorant of his fate—She re
quests that those who may have it in their power
to give her anv information refpi£liog her huf.
band, would fend it to the houfc ol Mis. Huo.
son, High-street, Baltimore, where flie refidcs,
or to M.idame gtIANTE, 111 the lame ftr«t t>—
A ri-piHication e/ the above by the fevcral printers
is icjucjlfd.
Letter from the Minifler of the frenek Republic,
to the Sea clary oj the United States of America.
Philadelphia, Feb. 6, 1793.
Second year of the Republic.
" In Conformity to the orders I have jest
received, I am eager to notify to the Govern
ment of the United State*, in the name of
the Provifionary Executive Council charged
with the Administration of our Government
that the French Nation has conflituted her
felf a Republic.
" T'his uotirication would have been ac
companied with fteffi Credential-;, if the bafit
which ought to be established on this head had
been finally regulated, and if the Kxecutive
Council had not chosen rather to manifeft- as
soon as pofi'i'e, the resolutions taken bv the
whole nation, of declaring tUe abolition of
Royalty, and the creation of a Republic in
France. Independent of the inte'eft which
this great ds terininatian of a nation, that has
given her concurrence to the defence cf h.
berty, and establishment of independence,
ought to inspire here, it will doubtless also be
considered by the United States, ar. a new
pledge of the close friendfliip which subsists
between the two nations. In this persuasion,
the Executive Coonfel of the French R.epub
lic hp.s charged me to alfuie vour Govern
ment of her dispositions, which are likewise
those of my. nation, to rivet the ties of our
friendfhip with you, and to multiply between
the two nations commercial connexions of
reciprocal utility.
" I congratulate myfelf upon being #b!« ro
tranfnjit to van the exprefiion of fentiijients
in which I participate to the utmost extent,
and of which my conduit (hall never ce&fe to
b:ar an invariable teftiinony.
(Signed)
THE ANSWER.
Philadelphia, Feb. 23, 1793.
Sir,
I HAVE laid before the President of the
United States your notification of the 17th
inllant, in the name of the Proviforv Execu
tive Council, charged with the adniiniftration
of your Government, that the French nation
has conftitutcd itfelf into a Republic. The
Prelident receives with great fatijfa&ion this
attention of the Executive Council, and the
desire they have-manifefted of making known
to us the resolution entered into by the Na
tional Convention, even before a definitive
regulation of their new eftablilbment couid
take place Be allured. Sir, that the Govern
ment and the Citizens of the United State!
view v.'ith the mod fiecere pleasure, every
advance of your Nation towards its happ-nefs,
an o'jjefte(Teiitial|y ronnefted with its liberty,
and they consider the union of principles and
pursuits between our two countries as a link
which binds still closer their interests and af
fections.
We earneftlv wilh on our part, that these
out mutual dil'politions may be improved to
mutual good, by establishing our commeicial
inrerconrfe on principles as friendly to natu
ral right and freedom as are tliofe of our go
vernments.
I am, with sincere efte -m and refpeft.
Sir, L-c. TH. JEFFEKSON.
Married, lift Tbiirfdjy evening, Mr. Wit
liam Ckamomd, merchant of this city, to
Mifi — Nixoh, daughter of John Nixcn,
Esq.
" TIRNAHT."v
To the Public.
'TME Editor of tiic G.\ 'i JTii of thk Ukitui
ST/triSfi'jjropofei publifliiiig'&ie P^eo
under that Title, every tvenin;;, Sunday's
excepted
To rc:*d?r it intereflinjj as a Daily Publi
cation, it fliall contain foreign and domestic,
commercial and poJitTCaJ Intelligence ' Kf-
fays and OWrva*ion , local and general : —
Marir:mc information Prices Current of
Merchau'J'ze and the Public Funds. Also a
fumniary of the proceedings ofCongrefj, and
of the Legislature of this State :—vrith a
sketch of Congreilionul Debates, fkc.
Advertizing favors will be gratefully r?>
ceived.
T E R M S,
To be prmud on paper of the d?my fixe 5
but a larger size (hall be fubitituted in Decern*
ber ncact.
The price Six Dollars per Annum ; to he
paid half Yearly.
When a fulScicnt nu Tiber of Subscribers is
obtained, the Publication (hall commence.
In tlie interim, the Gazette will be ptiblifh
ed twice a week as ultial.—Subfci ipt'ons are
refpe ft fully solicited by the Public's humble
ferrar.t,
JOHN FEN NO.
Subfcri prions are received at the City Tavern,
South Second Sliest—by Mr. Dobfon. at the Stone
Ifoufe—hy other per Jons who are in pojeffion of Jub-
Jlription paper . and by the Editor at hi J houfe y
■No. 34, North* Fifth-Street.
Philadelphia, Ju!y, 1793,
THE ED H 0 H
MOST ea? hejVy req\tefis those of his diflant Sub.
fcribers who are in arrearsJor the Gazette, to make
payment as Jiwn as pujjible. — Those per forts rvho have
receivedfubfeription money on his account are defircd
to remit the fume. The arrearages for the Gazette
have accumu'ated to a>ferious amount—»Serious, as
they are the only resource to discharge very serious
engagements incurred in the profccution of this ex
penftvepublication. Philadelphia, June 26.
BANK of tie UNITED STATES.
July i ft, 1793.
NOTICE is hereby given that there will be
pa»d at the Bank after the ioih inftaut, to
the Stockholders or their Reprefentarives duly
authorised, FOURTEEN DOLLARS and
FIFI Y CENTS for each Share, being the divi
dend jdfclated for the last fix months;
By order,
JOHN KEAN. Cjfhier.
ep3W
RULES
To he ohlcrved in tranfa&ing Bunnefs with the
Insurance Company
OF NORTH-AMERIt A
lft. \ LL ordcit tor Insurance must beg'ven
l \ in writing, signed by the applicant;
and as minute a dcfciipuon of the vessel is ex
pc£ted, as the per lon ordering the insurance can
give, re (petting her age, built, how found and
fitted, and whether double or single decked.
ad. AH policies will be ready for delivery in
twcivy-four hours after the order for insurance
is accepted at the office, and the policy must be
taken up in ten days.
3d. Notes, with an approved endorfet, for all
premiums, must be given in ten days, payable
as folU wj :
For American and Weft-India rifques, in
three months alter the date of the policy.
For P rifquos, in fix months.
For Irid'a and China rifques, in 12 months.
For rifques by the year, in eight months.
For rifques for fix months, in fonr months.
And tor riliquet for any Idler time, in three
months.
4th. Lodes will be paid in ten days after proof
and adjuH. noent ; but if the note given for the
premium fh.ill not have become due within that
time, the amount of tt (hall, neveithelefs, be de
ducted from the loss to be paid.
The Insurance Company of North-America
hereby give notice to all whom it may concern,
that, agreeably so the above rules, they arc ready
to receive all orders for insurance, which may
be addreflVd to them, accompanied wuh direc
tions to some refponfiMe house in Philadelphia
for ihe payment of the premiums within the
time limited.
In caf;-. tht' »irc|nfs offered shall be spprovrt),
the insurance (hall be immrdiately effrfcYed ;
otfeei wife notice, (hall bi given, cither by anlwer
10the person applying, or io his agent, in Phila
<3dphia, a* may be oioeitd.
B\ ->rdcr ot t'ne Dirrftors,
EBENEZER HAZARD, Scc'ry.
4w
J ul )' 3
INSURANCE COMPANY.
Philadelphia, July ill, 1793.
NOTICE is hereby given to ihe membeis ot
the Insurance Company of North Ameri
ca, that ihe D'» ftors have declared a dividend
(to this day) o! fax per cent on the amount of the
firft inftalineut, and of one per cent per month,
on the funis paid towards five Jecond and thtrd
instalments, calculating, from the fit ft day of
the month folio wing t hat in which these pay
ments wcFe made. The Dividend will be paid
t#» the Stockholders or their Rcprcfcixa'ivcs, at
the Company'* Office, (No. 119, Couth Ftont-
Street) at any time after the 7th inft.
EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'rv.
f£3T <4s tfa nenbtr-s of this (citpany are much
Sfierfii throughout the (inittd States, the Printers
in the fever alflt&Us are rtqueJUi to give the afave a
place in their neujpapers.
UNIVERSITY (^PENNSYLVANIA
i * J u V v l2j 1793
r I l£ for thr Ph*lo(uj»Rieal C'alle*
1 r-»rrmrnccs on Monday the 15th initant,
»!>d to continue w cks ; and lor the dif
ferent frbooU, belonging 10 ihr 1 n{\>tdt»ofi, on
nu'iy ihe 29*h 'njiant,<o tmiwuucjtiur weeks.
The Commcncerilc nt for conferring Decrees
on the Sludcitt» of thr Senior Class. who have
1> en already examined before the Faculty and
TruP.ces, and approved of by them, will be held
on Ihe id of September next.
As the Fhtlo'oph'cal Profefforf .will begii*
the 1 cpiiife#. of J.i&ures about ihe ill of Sep
tember. to the Cli<fTrs under their care, and «s it
is tibial 'or Students from d'lUnt who
wifti to fiuifb their education in the Univeifny,
to enter one or other ot these daffies, accord'ng
to their proficiency in Literature, it is recom
mended to such Students to make their applica
tions for admin'ipn th:»t time.
The Lecture* of the Provost frorilir ben fit of
the McdicaJ S ndenti, will be#in,y*s ufudl. on the
fi'ft of Novemhn, when the Lectures of the
Medical Pi'ofefTns comipence.
By order of tbc Faculty,
V r M. ROGERS, Sec'iy.
Albany Glafs-Houfe.
The Proprietors of the GUTs-Manufactory, under
'.he Firm of
M'CLALLEN, M'GREGOR and Co.
BLG leave to inform the public, thai ihey have
now brought their WINDOW-GL ASS to
such pci fefl'iin, >s will be found,on companion,
10 he equal, in quality, to the best London
Crown Glafc.
Having fixed their prices at a lower rate than
imported Glass, they are induced to believe, that
importations of this article will be discontinued,
in proportion as their works are extended.—
They propose to enlarge the feale of this bufi
nel's, and as the faccels of it will depend on the
patriotic support of the public, they beg leave to
solicit their friendly patronage in the pursuit of
a bianch which will interest e\ery lover of
A M E K IC A N MA NCFAC TURKS.
All orders for Wl ndow-Gl ass, of any size,
will be received at the Store of Rhodes and
MacOrfcor, No. 234, Oueen-ftrcet, New-
York, and at the Glass Wa r ehonfe, No. 48,
Mai ket-llreet, Albany, which will be puufhially
attended 10.
(£3T WANTED, fix smart a&ive I. ADS, not
exceeding 16 years of age, to be indented as
Apprentices, and regularly inftrutted in the
various blanches of Glass Making. 1
Also, three Wmdow-Glafs Makers, to whom
great eucouiagemcnt will be given.
May i t 1793.
GENERAL POS T-O FV 1 CE,
Philadelphia, May 27, 1793.
500 Dollars Reward.
WHEREAS a ccrtain THOMAS SLO£S
GANTT, has lately made Ips escape
from Baltimore County Gaol, to which he was
committed under a charge of having robbed the
Enliern Mail> on the 281 b day os-January last :
Notice is hereby given, that a rrward of five
hundred dollars will be paid at this QfTice, 10
any pcrfon or persons who (hall apprehend the
said TJwntas S/ofs Gantt, and deliver hirn info ihe
custody ot the keeper of the said Gaol, or into
thecuttody of either of the Mai Dials within the
United Stairs, so that the said Thomas Slofs Gantt
may be efftftually fecurcd. and forthcoming 10
answer the above mentioned charge.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Pofl-Majltr General.
The following is a description of the above
named Thomas Sloss Gantt : He is about
fix feet high, strait and well made, has light co
loured h2ir, tied behind, fair complexion and
has a down look when spoken to.
City of Washington.
January 7th, 1793.
A NUMBER of Lots in this City will be of
fered tor sale at auction, by the Commif-
Uoners, on the 17th day of September next.-—
One fourth part of the puvchafe money is to he
paid down, the refiduc at three equal ;nuu»l pay
ments w<th yearly iutcreft 011.the whole priwtv*
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk to the Com'rs.
Extract of an Ast t>f the General Aifcmbly of
Maryland, concerning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and the City of Waftiing-.on.
44 Be it ena&ed, That any foreigner nay by
deed or wt!l y hereafter to be made. take and hold lands
within that part oj the jaid Territory which lies with
in this State, in the fame manner as if he was a citi
zen of this State ; and the fame lands may be con
veyed by him x and transmitted to and be inherited by
his heirs or relations, as if he and they were citizens
of thu State : Provided, That no foreigner Jhall\
in virtue hereof, be entitled to any furtktJ or other
privilege of a citizen
jaw. 10,
FOR SALE, BY
MATHEW CAREY,
At his Store, No. 118, Markci-ftreet,
Philadelphia, *
THE AMERICAN MUSEUM, from 'its
commencement tn January, 1787, to its
termination in D< cembi i\ 1792, in twelve vo
lutins, price, neatly bound and lettcred v nine-
Veen dollars and one fifth.
The opinion ot the President of the United
States, this work, is 3$ follows :
" I believe the American Mufcum has met
with extcnfive, I may fay, with tinivecfal ap
probation from competent judges ; for I am of
opinion, that thr work is not only eminently
calculated 10 dill" minate political, agricultural,
philosophical, and othrr valuable information ;
but that it h;is been unjormly condu fled with tafle,
attention, and propriety. If 'to these important
objects be lupciadded the more immediate de
sign of rescuing public documents from obli
vion— I will venture to pronounce, as nfcy sen
timent, that a more useful literary
PL AN HAS NHA'F.I('BE!N UNDERTAKEN IN
America, or one more t> ese rviljg of pub
lic encouragement,''
June 5-
476
TO THE PVR LIC.
(p- THI LO.TO* prop eft! to cor.r.rut tit
fiMicaiitn oj the <" i'«»
Sr*Tti .Jar Jijlant arcu atton, ej'tr t»e Jiijt uj
December next, or the fo-lowi tern, viz.
Jt Jhali be 'pubb/hed on Widnijdavs and
Saturdays, on paper oj the Mcuumfzc— whictt
is larger than the ptefent.
The price, Three Dollars per annum,fxouhve
of pottage
Subfcnptians to he received by the refpefhve Pcji-
Maflers throvgi-out the Unron, or Juch other peijons
as may Jet proper to col left them
The papers to be jotwat dtd by pofi tivice a week.
A 0 packets to contain lejj than si x papers—and no
fubjeriptions to be rcceiv, d for a less term than JLx
months.—Paxments to be corjlantly fix monthj in
advance. — Twenty per c*nt. deduflicn from the price
of the Gazette, will be allowed to thuje who col
led and forward the fubfeription mcne), Jrce of ex
pense, in JuH of all charges for their trouble in the
business.
The publication will contain as vfual, a variety oj
original ejfays—foreign and domrjltc intelligence,
and a sum-nary of the proceedings of the Legijluture
oj the Union, &c. &c. Attention will be paid
to difpatchmg the papers with and Sub
fcrilers wax depend on receiving them as regularly,
I as the pofli arrive.
June 8.
Hercule De Sercey,
From Lcoganc, Island of St. Domingo,
MAKES and fellt all io:ts of Mugs, Jacks,
Porringers, Cups, Stew-Pans, Lamps, &c.
in Tin, plain or ppanned —He also niends old
tiri work. As he works cheap, he hopes for the
public encouragement.
No. 23, Race.street, near Front-street.
June 22.
HERCULE DE SERCET,
DE Leogane, Isle de St. Dominque, travaille
en ler Blanc, de tonte forte de manieres a
commande et a bon warcht-.
A Philadelphie, ce 22 Juin, 1793.
No. 23, Race-lireet, pees Fiont-ftreet.
By THOMAS JOHNSON, DAVID
STUART,&DANIEL CARROLL,
Esquires,
Comm ission'Kßl appointed by Government to
prepare the Public Buildings, See. within the
City of Wajhington, for the reception of Con
gress, and for their perinanent rtfidence after
the year 1800—
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City.
50,000 Tickets at 7 dollars, arc 350,000 dollars,
LIST OF PRIZES, viz.
eDisw
I Supei b Hotel, with baths, )
out houses, Bcc.&cc. to coil \ 5c, coo
1 Cash Pnze
1 ditto
l ditto
1 ditto
2 din©
10 ditto
2o ditto
100 ditto
200 ditto
400 ditto
1 ,coo ditto
15.000 ditto
j 6,737 Prizes
33,263 Blanks
50,000
By this fchemo at leajl the amount of the tick
ets will return to the fortunate adventurers, and
yet the federal City will gain its objett thereby,
ina magnificent building dtfigned both for pub
lic and private convenience.
Although some expence mull nccefTdrily at
tend the conducting of the lottery, (which ex
pence will be taken from the principal prize) the
Coinmiflioncrs having agreed to present in re
turn a fu(Hcient quantity of excellent free-ftone,
together with the best adapted lots for the hotel
and for the out-houfes, the value of the lottery
entire mav be fairly rated at fomtthing mere than
p*r : !'♦ *l»is important instance ic will be found,
on examination, to exceed all the lotteries that
have ever been offered to the Public in this or
perhaps in any other country. The keys of the
Hotel, when compleat, will be delivered to the
fortunate poffcflor of the ticket drawn aagainft
its number. —All the other prizes will be paid,
without deduflion,in one month after the drawing, by
the City Treasurer at Wafliingtdn, or ar such
Bank or BJnks as may be hereafter announced,
for the cortverfiency of the fortunate adventufrrs.
The drawing will commence on Monday the
6th of September next, at the Ctty ot.Wafhing
ton.
Tickets mav be had of Col. Wm. Dickens, City
Treasurer of Waihtngton ; Thaxer & B<irt!c!, of
CharleOon, South-Carolina ; Gideon Denifin, Sa
vannah; MefiYs. jfames Weft & Co. Aal;injotc{
Mr. Peter Oilman, Boston ; and at such other
places as will be hereafter published.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLI.ARS, will
be given for thebcft Plan of an ePegant and con.
ventent HOTEI. or INN, with hoi and cold
Balhs, Stables, and other out houfcs, if prefenttd
moricjert ikt 101k of April ntx!; and a pre
ference will be given 10 the Artilt for a Con.
tiaa, provided he he duly qualified to
compleit his plsri. The gj. undo« <vhich
the Hotel and out houses are to he creQed, will
be a corncr lot of about 90 by 200 feet, with a
back avenue to the ttables, ic. Sections a-,d
eihinates of tile expeufe will be cxpe£h d
with the elevations, &c. complcat ; and 50,000
dollars muil be regarded by the Architea as the
uttnoft limit in the exprnfe intcuded lor this
P ur P ose - S. BLODGET,
_ A B ent f "r Ihe atfjnso! the City.
March, 61793. *
PLA N S
OF Tfl!
City of Wafliington,
Sold bv the Booksellers,
DOBSON, CAREY, YOUNG, & LRUI\SHANK.
25,000
20.0c0
15,c00
10,000
5,000 are
i,oco
500
100
5°
2 5
20
10
r
10,000
10, coo
10,000
10.000
10,00©
30,000
?.o,oco
150,00©
Dollars 350,000
TRFAsrp Y n: PAnrMTN*r, 26.7^.*
NOIICh is v. n. that piuyi»»'ats W;4i
be receive*!.*! the othcc ol the ot
the Tvcafury, until u.c lounreijit) aav ot 6rp
trmbwnrxt mciuli-'cly, for the 'iupply ot all
Rations which may be teqntrrd fdr the uffc ol
the Uuiied States, irom the fiift. day ol Jdnuaiy
»o the thirty-li ft day of December »79' t .'both
days iociunte, at Hie places, uiid within ii*
difti ifts hereafter mem ioued, vir.
1. At any place or placcs betwixt Yoik-Town *
and Carltfle, in the Rare ill Peritf and
P.ttfburgh»& ar PntfV)urgh,Yo« k-itowg&Crrliflc^
2. At anv place or placet fr.>m ta
the mouth ol avelCreek, and at the mouth *
oi B»g Beaver Creek.
3. At any place or places from the said mouth
to tiie upper falls oi the said Big E« si
the upper falls.
4. At any place or places from thp f.id upper
falls (o Mahoning, and at Mah nitng*
5. At any place or pWcs from tfce said Ma.
honing over to ihe Heat'. Navigation of the river
Cayahoga, and at the find H<ao Negation.
6. At any place or places from the said Head
Navigation 10 the mouth ol the said nvci Cuya
hoga, and at the said mouth.
7. At any place or places betwixt the mouth
of the 3i«> Beaver Creek, to the mouth of the
rivf-r Mufkingnm, and no the laid river to the
Tufcarowas, and at the Tufcaiowas, and thence
over to the Cavalioga river, and thence down the
said river to its mouth.
8 At any place or places betwixt the mouth
of the river MtifkingU'n and the mouth t*f the
Scioto river, and at the mouth ot (he said river
Scioto.
q At any place or places betwixt the mouth
of Scioto river &c the mouth of the Great Miami,
at the month of the Great Miami, and from
thence to the rapids or the falls of the Ohio, and
at the said rapids.
10. At any place or place* betwixt the mouth
of the Great Miami, op the fait} Miami to and
at Pique Town.
11. At any place or places Irom FortWafh
ingion to Fort Hamilton, and *t Fort Hamilton.
At any placc or places from Fori Hamilton to
Fort St. Clatr, and at Fort St. Clair.
12. At any place or places from Fort St. Clair
to Fort jeffcrfon, and at Fort Jcffcifon.
13. At any place or places from FOll JtfiFerfon
to the field of action of the 4th ot November,
1791, and at the said si« Id ot aition.
14. At any ptace or places from the said field
of action to the Miami Villages, and at thfe
Miami Villages.
15. At any place or places from the said Mi
ami Villagts to the falls of the Miami tiver*.
which empties into Lake Brit, and at t,bc frtitl
falls, and from thence to its mouth, and at ill,
mourh.
16. At any place or places from th- m<"»th of
the said Miami river of £*>;U.e Erie to Sanduficy
Lake, and at Sandufky Lake
17. At any place or pJ*ces Irom the said San
dulkv Lake, to the jnouth of the »iver Cayahoga.
18. At any ffface or place* from the mouth of
the laid river Cayahoga to Prefque Isle, and at
Prefque 111 .
19 At any place or places from Prefque
to the stream running into Lake Erie from to
wards the Jadaghque Lake, and thence over to
and at the laid Jadaghque thence down
the Allegheny river to Fort Ftanklin.
20. Ai any place or places from Prefque Isle
to Le Bcuf, aud at Le Beuf
bi. At any place or Dlaccs from Le Beuf to
Fori Franklin, and at Fort Fratikiin, and from
thence to Piufburgh.
22. At any place or places from the rapidsof
the Ohio 10 the mouth of the Wabafh river, and
from the mouth of the said \VaL>aili river to the
mouth of the river Ohio.
23. At any place or places on the East firle of
the river Mldiflippi, from the mouih of the Ohio
river, to the mouth o{ the Illinois river.
24. At any plafce or place* trom the mouth of
the ia d Wabafti river up to Fort Knox, and at
Fort Knox.
2,5. At any place or place* fiom Fort Knox up
the fj»d Wabafh to Ouittanon, anri.ai Ouittanon.
26. At anv place or places from Ouittanon,
up the said Wabafh, 10 the head navigation of a
branch thereof called Little R«ver f anc j at
said bead navigation of Little R'ver.
27. At any pla« e or plac. s'from the fatd head
navigation ol little River over to the Miami Vil
lage. • - - — ***** , ...
28. At any place or places from the mouth of
the river Teneffee tc Occochappoor Bear Creek,
on the said river, inoiufively
29. At any place or places from the mouth of
the river Cumbeiland to Nafhvjlle, on the said
river, and at Naftiviile..
30. And at any place or p'aces within thirty
miles oi fair 4 . Nafhvillc to the Southward, Wcli
\vard or Northward thereof.
Should any rations be required- at any places,
or within other diftntts, not fpecified in thrfc
proposals, the price of ihe fame to be hereafter
agreed on betwvxt the public and the contractor.
The rations to be supplied are 10 confifl. of the
following article!, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or of a pound of pork,
One quart of fair,
Mwo ouert-s of vinegar, f
Two pounds of soap, > P cr 100 rat,ons -
One pound ot candies, J
1 he rations are to be fui nifheel in such q Jan ti
tles as that there (hall at all times, during the said
term, be fufßcient tor the consumption of the
troops at each pi the said posts, i'p#<he {pace of at
least 3 months m advance, in good and whole
some provisions, if the fame shall be required.
It is to be under flood in each cafe,that all loflei
fuflained t»y the depredations of thr enemy, or hy
means of the troops of the United States, fhail be
paid tor at the pnccs of the articles captund or.
deltroycd, on the depositions of two or mot*
creditable characters, and the ceitificate of a
comtniffioned r»fftcer, ascertaining the circum
fl« ncesof :lie loi» t snd the orvount of the articles
for which competition is claimed.
The contrast for the above supplies will be
made either tor cne y< ar, or tor 'tv.o years, a»may
appear eligibJe. Ptifons difpoicd to contra#
will therefore. their offers to one yearj or
they may malci their pVopofuions foas to admit
an ele£tinn oi the term of two \ear.«.
/"he oflers may compr fe all the places which
have keen fpectfica, or a part of them only.
L -r i