A N.iT'OA.iL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS '
■ J
[No. is 5 of Vol. IV.]
Chief JuJtice Jay*# opinion, on the juejlion—
** whether a State be liable Wwßfued by a pri
tau citizen of another State fW
THE quelbion \*?e are now to decide has
been accurately Rated, viz. Is a State
suable by individual citizens of dnothei'State ?
It is said that Georgia refofes to appear and
anftver to the Plaintiff tit this a&ion, because
flie is a Jover'eign State, and therefore not
iiahU to such action,?. -
In order to the merits of this ob-
Jfijffrio'i, iet us enquire,
■P. In what sense Georgia is a Sovereign
J. Wtetlier iV»WJit>» it *ith !
flfcll-.ft»vfr«jgi)tj[, • • !
3- "WhctWr the Constitution ' (to ;
Georgia if a party) %uthorifcs, fuel) 311 ,
jigsturt htfV. •
Suabihty and Juiblc are words not in com
mon use, but they concisely and corre&ly con
vey the idea annexed to them.
i. In determining the sense in which Geor
gia is a sovereign State, it may be iileful to
turn our attention to the political fituation v
we were in, pr'or to the Revolution, and to
the political flights which emerged from the
Revolution.
Ail the country now poflefTed by the United
States was then a part of the dominions ap
pertaining, to the crown of Great-Britain.
Every acre of land in this country was
then held mediately or immediately by grants
from that crown.
AH the people of this country were then,
subjeCts of the king of G'eat-Britain, and
owed allegiance to him ; and all the civil au
thority then existing orexercifed here, flowed
from the head of the Briti/h empire. They
were in a strict fenfc jttlow fnfcjeCts, and in a
variety of respeCts one people. When there-
Volution commenced,the patriots did not assert
that only the fame affinity andfocial connecti
on fnbfifted between the people of the colonies,
which fuMifted between the people of Gaul,
Britain, and Spain, while Roman provinces,
viz. only that affinity and social connection
which result from the mere cirtumftance of
being governed by the fame prince—different
idea? prevailed, and gave occaiion to the Con
gress of 1774 and 1775.
The revo4utron, or rather the declaration
of Independence, found the people already uni
ted for general purposes, and at the fame
time providing for their more domestic con
cerns by State conventions, and other tem
porary arrangements.
Prom the crown of Great-Britain, the sove
reignty of their country pafi'ed to the people
of it—and it was then not an uncommon
opinion, that the unappropriated lands which
belonged to that crown, palled not to the peo
ple of the colony or States within whose li
mits they were fltuat;ed, but to the whole
people—on what ever principles this opinion
Felted, it did give way to the other, and
thirteen fovereigntie* were confdered as
from the principles ps the revolu
tion, combined with local convenience and
considerations—the people nevertheless con
tinued to consider themselves, in a national
point of view, as one people ; and they eon
tinged without interruption to manage their
national concerns accordingly—Afterwards,
in the hqny of the war, and in th<* warmth of
mutual confide >ce,tbey mi de a confederation
of lite States the balls of a general govern
ment. Experience disappointed the expect
ations they had formed from it; and then the
jxjople, in their collective and national ca
pacity, eftabli flied the pre fen t Constitution.
It is remarkable that in establishing.it, the
people exerciftd their own rights, ai)d their
own proper sovereignty, and cgnftious of the
plenitude of it, they declared ivith becoming
dignity, •' We the Pea pic of the United > rates,
44 da ordain and etlablilh this Constitution,"
H'*re we fee the people acting as fove reigns
»f the whole, country ; and in the language of
fevereigiity, a Constitution by
:li it was their will, that the state govern.
lbould be bound, and to »hich the
State Constitutions thou Id be made to conform.
Every State Constitution is a com past made
by and between the citizens of a State to go
vern themselves in a certain manner—and the
Constitution of the United States is likewise
a compact made by the people of the United
States to govern themselves as to general ob.
jedts, in a certain manner. By this great
compart however, many important preroga
tives were transferred to the national go
vernment, such as those of making war and
peace, contracting alliances, coin ng money,
&rc. &rc.
It then it be true, that tfce sovereignty of
the nation is in the people of the nation, and
the rellduary sovereignty of each State in the
people of each State, it may be ui'eful to com
pare these sovereignties with those in Europe,
that we may thence be enabled to judge, whe
ther all the prerogatives which are allowed to
the latter, are also eflential to the former.
There is reafoil to suspecT that some of the
difficultiejfchich embarrass the present quef
tion, ri epßoni inattention to the differences
which fubiilt between them.
it will be fufficieut to observe briefly, that
Saturday, August iq, 1795. [Whole No. 44;.]
the foverdiffntierin Europe, and-particularly
in England, exill on feudal principle* T|*at
fyfteui conlklei s the ptince -is. the foreign, ajid
theP'eopfe as his {vl'jcfis—it? regards .his person j
as the object of allegiance, and excludes the
idea of his being' on an equal footln'g witft a
fubjeft, either in a court of justice or efle
where. That system contemplates him as be
ing the fountain of honor and authority •; and
from his grace and grant derives aJI franc-hiies,
immunities and privileges —it is cafv to per
ceive that' such a Tovefeijfn could -ct i>e a«v«e-
Y.aßlfc t«> a court of jurticV, or fTibje&ed to
jifdicial control? *• ami atfHtal confttomt. It was
ofuecefiity, therefore, tfrat Inability became
incompatible witivfuch jCbv eieignty. Bef.des,
the N prince having 3JI the executive powers,
the judgment of the courts would, 1,1 fa<ft, be
only monitory, not mandatory to him. and a
capacity to be advised, i» a diftin<ft thing iron*
a capacity to b«? lued. The fame feudal ideas
run through all t!:eir jurtfprudence, <tnd con
llantly remind us of rhe distinction between
the prince and tl>e No luch ideas ob*
tain here-—At the revolution, the foyereigiity
devolved on the people ; ;.u;J they ftt> 1 y <
tl)e sovereigns of the country—but tnen t:vy
are wVwt -Jmjc&'s (unless the Af
rican slaves among us may be tb catted)—-;»nd
have none to govern but ihonjcivei—the citi
zens of America are equal as
and as joint tenants in the sovereignty.
From the differences exiftirg between feu
dal sovereigns, and governments founded on
compacts, it neceflarily follows that their ref
peefcive, prerogatives mud alio differ.
Sovereignly is the rijsht to govern ; a na
tion or state-sovereign is the person or persons
in whom that ri»fides. In Europe the fover
eigrity is generally ascribed to the prince—
h<*Te it rests with the people—tliere, the fo
vereiguty actually administers the govern
ment; here, never in a single inftanee—our
Governors are the agents of the people, and
at tnoft (land in the fame relation 10 their fo
vercign, in which regents in Enrope stand to
their sovereigns. Their princes have ptrf&nal
powers, dignities and pre-emirtencics—our
rulers have none but official; nor do they par
take in the fbvereignty otherwise, or iu any
other capacity, than as private citizens.
2. The second ohjeCt of inquiry now pre
sents itfelf, viz. whether fuibility is incom
patible w th State sovereignty.
Suability—by whom ? not a fubjeCt—for
in this country there are none—not by an in
ferior ; for all the citizens being as to civil
rights perfectly equal, there is not, in that
respeCt, one citizen inferior to another.
It is agreed that one free citizen may sue
another—the obvious dilates of jufliice, and
the purposes of society demanding jt.
It is agreed that one free citizen may sue
any number on whom process can be con
veniemtly executed—nay, in certain cases,
one citizen may sue forty thousand ; for
where a c<?Vporation Is sued, all the members
of it are aftua/Jy, though riot fxrfvnalfy 9 sued.
In this city there are foTty odd thousand
free citizens, all of whom may be collectively
sued by any individual citizen. In the State
of Delaware, there are fifty odd thousand free
citizens, and what reason can be afligned why
a free citizen who has demands against them
should not prosecute them? Can the difference
between fyrty odd thousand, and fifty odd
thousand make any distinCtion $s to right f Is
it not as easy, and as convenient to the pub
lic and the parties, to serve a summons on
the Governor and Attorney-General of Dela
ware, as on the Mayor or other officers of the
Corporation of Philadelphia ?
(To be continued.J
FROM THE WESTLRN STAR.
NO art, however vile—no plan, however
wicked—no attempt, however base and
uujuftifiab'e, is left uneflayed by a detested
and abominated elan, to bring into disrepute
the measures of the Federal Government, to
fix an odium upon its administration, and'en
deavor to render our f:ee and happy -citizens
di("contented with its operations.—A Phila
delphia paper (the Manorial Gazette) has for
some time past teemed with abu'e and.u> just
inve&ive against the Executive of the Union.
—That he' d of fcrH>bler§ whose ebullitions
have been lent forth through the continent,
have worn thread-bare the infamous epithets
repeated and r e-repeated against the officers
of the General Government, without produ
cing any of the diabolical cffe&s intended.—
It might have been expe&ed that the illustri
ous Washington would have escaped the
fhafts of those traitors to the peace and hap
piness of our land ; not from any regard they
entertain for his eminent patriotism, and un
paralleled services in his country's cause, but
rather from a fear that an open and invidious
attack upon the Chief Magiflrate of the Union,
who lives in the hearts of his fellow-citizens,
would give their infamous views a too pub
lic exposition, and render abortive the object
of their hopes—But as the great adversary of
mankjpd, after deluding his followers for a
season, it is said at length leaves in a
lurch, so his offspring at the ptefenc day, after
497
■■ 1 V I
<5! " v '' 1 '■ r ."}, f~
; li "White wirtl
irft-ve Ift an nrtgWi»frfe<l*flio6»4iS l t, (hewft pui>-
i*Sic<j» rt* cl«veo • faoO-H* difonyetyuwiiclv
whilfci t v(rf; if poffibie, draw on them a great
er (bare of contempt than tliey now receive,
Mr ill alio tend to rivet the Mam of the Peo
ple more ftrongly'in the affect cms of the sub-
of otor equal, jfeft* and free government.
President is flandei.ed by. these un-
principled eraWariei of anarchy, on account
of his proclamation for tt»e obier vance of a
. neutrality in the present European contefy
an.l for his attachment to, and confidence in,
thole men whole federalifm,. and energy' of
conduct form strongest barrier I© mad
mifruJe-r-The proclamation is said tp be u a
flagrant violation of their r'ghts," and the
President's friends are ailatilred witU the olej
epithet, arifiocracy.—This broody who are con
tinually loadwyr the memory of L-oyrs XVI.
wkb every cxecration which hell engendered
malice can fnggeft—who have branded Fay
ette with the vi If ft appellations—and scan
dalized some of tfiofe illuftritius Gallicarr cha-
racers who alfifled in figtiHrtp the battlevoi
ouc'cmintry, and* in (ought a rehire
from the fury of Jacobin perfeculpion—would
now pjunge our country into all thf horrors of
war, in defence of a people who arc able ro
j defend themselves, and who wifl yet undoubt*
j e:Hy recover from the danger into which pre
cipitate measures, and, in some instances,
bloody zeal, has plunged them, and eita
blifh a free and just government. Thefc
Gcribblers, too, are continually alfailing us
with the cry that trade is opprefled, and com
merce cramped, by enormous duties anc}
although our flourifhing commercial situation,
and ou'r great and increaiing exports, give
the lie to their affcrtiops, yet, in to be
confident, they oiujht to alledge our tntharrafj
mtnts as a strong ftimujous to the cultivation
of peace—but consistency has not any thing to
do with their plans, and justice and honor
blufli at the mention of their motives. —It is
only through the medium of their vehicles of
abuse that thq groan* of ofiprefiion are heard—
while, on the contrary, the people enjoy un
limited prosperity and happiness—and, if
they wifely guard themselves against unfound
ed insinuations refpedting men to tbeir
confidence is due, and continue firm in the
support of that government which, under
Providence, is tfce source of their blellings,
they may.expect a tianfmifEon of thsm, un
impaired, to the latest generation.
JeMM'THB $*L&M €4ZETTE*
A gentleman in Philadelphia wrius thus— and it is
paiiyfut in thf extreme that he has occajton to—to
his friend in this town : —
" r T" , HE Pielidcnt has met a volley of the mofi
X unmerited abufc, on account of his Pro
clamation. If is to be regietted, ilwt (he men
of virtue,and friends to the goveromcnt, who
are of one opinion in approving that meafoje,
did not more generally declare their fc mimtnts ;
the add reft from Saletn. has done honor to the
citizen?, aad has feived the cause of our country.
It is painful to think that any men (hould be
dcfirous of embroiling this countfy, and con
necting our affairs with ihoCe of the governments
of Europe, which are evidently hallooing to i uin,
and laboring under every evil, which vice, des
potism and fatfion can ii.flitt. Thu* we are
bound to wiih for their happmcf>, we are under
no obligation to become parties to their con
tentions— we ate not to imitate th ir manners,
or to adopt their opinion*, if we wiih to consult
either their of our ilUcrcfls. It would be a
lading it n<»t a ruinous calamity, to
permit foreign councils to rnake an iinp»efli.>n
here. Every man ought to brar my
against any with any coun
try <rf Europe. It is our d.-iry to treat all with
pfr!cfct isnpartlality and with the ftriiteft justice,
and by every means in our power to arrest that
enthusiasm, which if indulged will iiecciLri'y
divide our country into fa&ions. Thi* country,
>nii«-a(£ of being Ihe moll happv, would be the
moil wretched under heaven, if once engaged in
thole vindictive and lavage wars, which m all
probability will ravage Europe during th«- pro
sent age.- Wc enjoy ihe CnnffalaWm of believing
the wilbes of this country to be favorable to
peace, order and virtue—it rests with the good
men to rcftrain the p<*fDons ot the few who arc
to i bu lent."
Foreign Intelligence,
V I t N N A, May 20,
SEVERAL Jacobin em ilia lies are
among the Montenegrines, en
deavoiingto propagaie their prin
ciples among those mountaineers,
and to induce them- to make an ir
ruption into the Venetian and Auf
irian territories.
C A D' I Zf May 7.
Fear ftiipt of the line have lately
W«tt" ordered to be'fitted at Ferr*].
Tfcw makes the Spanifti naval force
for fcrvicc ab«ut so fail of the
Hm.
• *4;
f.STREET, m H. A DLL Vk I
Upon ;he hi etirii frontiers t hete
ave now 130,000 men, inclftfjve
1 he Viviana frigate arrived here
this day from Vera Cruz, lalt frcm
Porto Rico, where they had heard
of lhe war.—She left in (he latter
place the treasure, Vvhich is ;o be
conveyed to ims ope by the San Pe
dro Alcantara. This ireafur< is. Re-
ported to be imoieiife.
This very day I ike wife arrived
the SiMi Pedro regittei' ship from Li
ma. She has on board • 1,545,593
hard dollars.
A French prize lias come i'r here
that is said to be very rich. She is
tlie Archimides, of Bourdeaux,from
the hie of France, bound to Pore
L'Orient, and a prize to the Sp>oii<fi»
ihipofwar the San Leandro. By
this fliip we have heard of the cap
ture of the Spanifli register (hip Sr.
Jago el Foefle, or the Achilles, by
a French privateer from Havre, and
of her recapture by an Kuglifh squa
dron.—She is valued heie, with the
creature on board of' her, and Her
cargo,at 2,500,000. She has 2,200,0fe0
dollars on board of her.
Admiral Goodall, after having
convoyed the Mediterranean flt-V-t
one hundred leagues to the welt
ward of Cape St. Vincents, reiurta
ed to Gibraltar about a week ago.
He came in five days after leaving
the fleet, without meeting with any
occurrence.
TOURN.I Y, June 4.
Every thing here remains in much
the fame slate as when I had the
pleasure of addrelfing my last letter
to you. We however have heard
cannonading again, on the tide of
Valenciennes, this morningand late
lalt night. An idea feeins to have
gone through the British camp,that
a pretty general salute will be fiiej
from the different cannon round
Valenciennes this day, in hono» of
the King's biith day, and that tbc
bombardment will likewil'e begin
this day. The combined armies
seem determined upon expediting
the (iege of this city and of Conde,
as they have, independent of the
military, collected labourers to dig
trenches and conftruift batteries,
which in point' of number would
form no inctmfiderable army, it be
ing laid that there are above 12,000
of them, and reinforcements aie
daily arriving.
BODENHKIM, Tvjay 21
On the 15th inft. the advanced
polls of the French were repulsed
from Bliefcaftel, by Col. Sockulc.
Whilst the advanced port* were thus
engaged, Monf. Hoiichard endea
vored, with twenty thousand infan
try, and a considerable corps of ca
valry, to tuni Prince Holienloe's
camp near Honiburg, and to rake
pofleffion of the important pofiiion
of Kayferlantern ; but Prince Ho
henloe, having received intimation
«f that intention, quitted Honiburg,
and returned with the greatest ex
pedition to Kayfei lantern, where
he arrived only half an hour be fur e
the French army, and thus fecuied
that position. The country of Deux
Ponts, Homburg, and Carlefberg is
confequentlv again abandoned ; and
the French, upon taking pofleffion
of the several towns deferred by the
Priiffians, committed great devasta
tions.
LONDON, June 3.
Kellerman, who has been trifd
and acquitted by the Revolutionary
Tribunal, is to command the south
ern army, in the room of Biroi),
who retires from indifpofirion.
A very melancholy circumltance
happened on Friday evening at
Gi enier's Hotel, in Jermy n-ftreet.
St. James's.
'0;.
2 »:> <j>J
> ».»i
.► I >
W v,1
Abont seven o'clock in lk< even
ing, the Duke de Sicigniano, who
ai rived in this count' y about i«vu
months since, being appointed to
fucceedthe PiijWt Caftelcicala, as
Miuiller from the
Court of Naples, put an end to his
exigence, by placing a hoi fe pittol
to his temple,and blowing his brains
out. Medical aililtance wa& imme
diately lent for, but the nirgeons
arrived only jnil in tijnt to fee him
expire.
As soon a® the event became
known, the Prince Caftelcicala, and
fotne other foreign noblemen, wci>t
to Grenier's to view ihe body, and
ihe Prince took charge of his effects.
Oa Saturday morning, M r - Buigels,
one of his Mjjetty's under Secreta
ries of State, at the requelt of Lord
Grenville, went to the Hotel to
make tbe necefl'ary enquiries con
cerning the luicide, and to give or
ders for the removal of the corpse;
and the interment. Mr ( Burgels
was at Grenier's near three houis,
and was extremely .attentive and'
minute in the inveftigaiioii Of the
business. Ihe Court of Naples may
be allured that every reJpcrt has
been paid to this unfortunate No
bleman that ciicumftanc?s could al
low.
The Dtrke de Sicigniano was a
young Nobleman of one of the firft'
families in Italy, of very amiable
manners, and much beloved by
those who knew him.
The Count tie Merci d'Argenteau
is appointed by the Emperor to ie
main near the Prince d« Cohourg,
who is to consult him on all matters
of a civil nature. He is particular
ly charged with the correspondence
department of thearmies, to receive
. all propositions that may be made
. on the part of France, from whom
he holds a comuiilfion of Minister
Plenipotentiary.
This appointment of the Count
tie Merci has probably given rife to
the report ofthe Frrnce deCobourg
being about to tefign- At all events
it appears evident that the Emperor
rather chooses to depend on the
General's sword, than on his head.
The present lunation of affairs
will not admit at this moment, per
haps, of an effectual opppfition to
the aggrandizement of the Musco
vite Empire ; but as evety state in
Europe is interefled in proscribing
bounds to the power of Rulfia, we
have the stronger reafoti to lament,
that it hat been fuffered to unite
the several provinces of Poland to
its afready tooextenfive territories ;
becaofe this acceflion of dominion
mull inevitably create well founded
jealousies, and lay the ground work
of future hoftillties ; —and a war
in perfpetftive is certainly no plea
sant object to contemplate.
Emigrant Army of Conde.
Aubtrlocfladen, near Spire,
" We are encamped to the left
of the Aufiriant, at the distance of
a league and a half from Landau,
our advanced guard being stationed
in the French villages. The Impe
rialist are a quarter of a league
distant from our line, and there are
frequent attacks, in Which the pa
triots are .always bet ween
the advance pods. Yesterday we
had a little affair of this kind, which
was attended -on the fide of the
French by the loss of thirty dead
on the field, and eight prifoneis.
It is very, lingular, that 011 this oc
casion, the 1 mperialifls had not one
maw either killed or wounded. The
Tyrolean Chatleurs and the legion
of Mirabeau frequently meet the
patriots, who, at whatever distance
they may perceive the enemy, con
stantly run off full I'peed.
" Deserters in considerable num
bers come in daily,and among them
many of the regular cavalry and
ho We Chaflenrs. It strikes me,that
when it (hall come to be known to
the French troops in the camp at
Wifl'embourg, where the Prince of
Condehas stationed hjirfelf. the de,-
fcrteis will flock in, in flill greater
'numbers. Ido not, how ever,think
we (hall make any greater progress
till 1 he fall of \iemz.
" Our army becomes very nume
rous, and frtfh Eiuigiants reach ns
daily. Qur fufFeriiigs during the
win;er hive been very gre.H ■, and
elpccially, becaule in the expecta
tion of re-entering France in the
course of hid year, ihey difpofpd
the greater part of their eileCU.
" When the Imperial General
Wurnifer lately palled our firll line
in review, he perceived several
Frenchmen in a very deplorable
plight : his eyes were bedewed with
tears, and, turning to the Austrian
office* s who accompanied him, lie
exclaimed, " Sirs, these aie genilei
men." „ ■>'
" Our division of cavalry istnore
than four hundred llrong. Of these,
two-thirds are either old officers or
gentlemen, the other thiid confitts
of emigrated French cavalry. We
have a standard 10 each division
each of us carries a crape on his
sword ; and on the right arm a
white crape trimmed with black,
having on the knot an escutcheon
with three fiiuri'de-I^s."
An adjutant general from the ar
my of the north, with a pair of co
lours taken from the enemy, an
nounced in the national convention,
May 25, that 011 the 24th, in the
morning, the division under the
command of general Lamarlier had
attacked the Dutch army near Me
ninj in thiee points. The enemy
loft all their posts, 3 pieces of can
non, 7 waggons of ammunition and'
provincial, ■job men killed, 300 tak
enprifoners, among whom are 28
officers, and one of superior rank.
The military chest was taken, as
well as much property ; and such
was the rapidity of the flight, the
French were obliged to carry into
Lisle 22 waggon loads of wounded
left by the enemy on the field of
battle; A grenadier, named Grof
lambert, took the colours."
BR I STOL, May 2J.
Mr. Burke, our Recorder, in his
admirable charge delivered to the
Grand Jury at the opening of the
late Gaol Delivery for this City,
speaking of the intolerant and per
fecting spirit with which the Cler
gy qf• France have been p'urfp'ed,
lays, that." Tells, Declaration*,ana
Oaths which were multiplied, vari
ed, »nd imposed u,pdn them, being
confrientioufly refnfed, thoafands
of them were murdered, and the
remainder, fir ft hunted like wild
bealls through all parts of France,
vfere by one sweeping Decree, ba
niihed forever from their country !
"that thus, Atheifin, is little short of
being eflablifhed in rhat kingdom,
there is not at this day (speaking,
he fays, from undoubted informati
on) one place open for religious
worship of any kind or description,
in the vast Metropolis of that infa
tuated country !"
AMERICA.
NASSAU, (N.P.) July
« - Li*
The Spanish governor of" St. Do
ningo has illued a Proclamation,,
rotifying, that " His Catholic Ma
efty, willing to heap benefits and
favours upon filch Frenchmen, as
condu<ft themselves with honor,, tin
der the piefent clrcuniftafices, re
main attached to their lawful sove
reign, and are ready to defend the
good cause : his governor afiurcs
ail such in the name of the king,
that they will be received under the
proteiilion, and (hall enjoy those
privileges and exemptions, which
their refpeiftive characters and ci*-
cnmfhinces require : Whilp others;
who, by a contrary condutfl, acqui
esce in the perfidious views of the
king's enemies, will be regarded,
as they are every where, with hor
ror, and without difcriininaiion, as
the molt dangeious enemies.
BASSETERKE, July it.
ExtraCi of a letter from St. Vincent,
July i.
" You know we had an account
of general Bruce, and the troops
leaving Martinique. It feema he
was aflured by many of the princi
pal inhabitants, that if he would
only remain oil the iflnnd, though
inactive, there wa? a profpeit of a
surrender. The fleet and armv are
now at Barbadoes. On the Gene
ral's going the:e, the boats crew
498
were so ex<»fp.<JJ ated him, as to
•threaten to throw hiin overboard,
and the'people of the island treated
liiia with great iiifult— this is as the
rtory goes.
" Many ;hoii(andsof the royalists
have quitted the island in the mod
' diftiroHed (iiuation, and numbers of
the nKift-opulent are»reduccd so low
a. to partake of the contributions
made 'for them with thankfulnefs.
We have about two thousand here,
, and tis fai.d there are immense num
bers At.Grenada-, and Trinidad, and
a much greater number at Domini
t;a— they fay 10,000. They were
so crowded on board the Calypso,
Malveaux's (hip now here, that
rtumbers were foffocated, and (he
had near been lofV, occasioned by
the crowd on deck being so great
the sailors could not work the (hip ;
many perilhed by the fide of the
(hip, (he being so full that it was
itnpoffible to take in any more-
Small veflels are arriving every day
as full as they can (land on deck."
BARBADOES.
By his Excellency th* Governor, &c.
A Proclamation
WHEREAS it has been represent
ed to me by the planters, merchants
and other inhabitants of this ifJand,
jhat there is at present a great frar
<iity of lumber, provisions, and other
articles of life ; and that from the
number of French public and pri
vate fliips of war now cruizing upon
the coafis of the United States of
America, there is very little proba
bility of this colony being Aipplied
by British vellels. Ido therefore
by and with the advice and content
of his majesty's council, and by spe
cial authority reposed in me for the
benefit of his majesty's fubjetfts of
my government, hereby ill'ue this
my proclamation, to permit and al
low the following articles of flour,
bread, rice, whear or grain of any
fort, horses, horned cattle or live
stock of any kind, to be imported
into ami-fold in this island, for 12
during the present war, from the
said United States of America, or
from any illands or colony in these
seas belonging to any European
power or state not actually at war
veflels belonging to the said United
States of America, or to any of fh<
aforefaid Weft India colonies Ant
all officers whonrfoever, civil or mi
litary, within this government art
hereby en joined and required to pa;
due obedience to this my proclaim
tion.
Given under my hand and seal at
at Pilgrim, this 26th day of
June, i 79?t an 'l in the 33d year of
his majeity's reign.
D. PARRY.
By His Excellency's Command,
Valentine Jones.
God save the King.
• NEWPORT, July 30.
Generous Actio*.
EIGHT Inhabitants (vktims of
the unhappy event which occasioned
the deftrurtion of the town of Cape-
Krancois) were obliged to fly from
their houses, and retired the 2rft of
June uit. on board the brig lafon,
of Middletown, Connecticut, Capt,
Moses Tyron, who generously gave
them flielter, and offered to can v,
them to New London, free from all
expenses. Agreeably to liis orders,
the aßth following, he arrived at
Turk's-Iflands, after funfei—before
the brig came to, (he was boarded
by the boat of the privateer sloop
Betsey & Polly, of St. Vincents,
Capt. Wells Col. Alexander Mur
ray, Governor of those islands, who
had been informed of their dilaf
trous fuuation, immediately repair
ed onboard, and by all means en
deavored to dispel their feais. Capt.
Tryon acquainted him wjih their
misfortunes, and that ten negroes
and a few trunks of linen wares,
which were on board, were the re
mainder cf their fortunes The
next tnorning:, in presence of the
Colonel, and the Captain and offi
cers of the floop,the brig was Jifar<"h
ed by the cresv of iht p jvateer,w ho
after acknowledgi 1 g the
of Capr. T ryot's de 1 *,1-3 turn, 1 r.i".
ea t ctanifeftii.g U.m Canccm >vhitU
is usual wi>fi all temler-b£ane«i
mortals on luch an fcccaijon.
The wort by son ol Lord Dunuiure
did nor withhold his fa via », but of
fered his albltancfc to thole unfor
tunate fufterer*, who were finer.
. tained by the inhabitants of Turk'*
lflaud, wlnie they remained thei'e.
Our gratitude, gentrouS Man ! js
an acknowledgment due -To your
ebarHCter—-May your, example,
uured by all nations, iitViee iniir^-
101$. & rtKN'ADII.
July, 26, 1 793.
NEWIEOIUC, AUgiift 7.
At a mcetriijfof the New- y orkChatn*
ber of Commerce, legally conven
ed oil 1 lie 61 h day of /iuguft, 1793,
the Chamber pioceeded to couli
der the report of their Committee
appointed at a previous iiic-eiing
to frame refolutioiis expretfivV of
the sense of t his Corporation updUiYtij
the conduct which it is
and intereit toobferve, in
to the powers at war, when the
following were unauimouily a
dopted :
ift. Resolved, Tha: a ftritfl obser
vance of existing treaties, and of
neutrality enjoined bj the I'reli
dent's Proclamation, is, in our op.-
nion, among the fitft duties winch
we owe to ourselves, and tothe mild
government adopted by our ccuu<
try.
2d. Resolved, That in our opinion
it is contrary to the tenor of those
treaties, and the laws of the laiul,
to engage on board of any Letter of
Marque or privateer, or to afiitt in
arming or fitting out veilels tocruife
againit any of the puwers at war;
and that it is the duty of al) good
citizens, to unite their efforts to
bring offender* in these refpedts ttt
convi<ftionw<»d punishment.
3d. Resolved, That ihe Proclama
tion of the President of the United
States, declaring their neutrality' to
wards the powers at war, was in our
opinion ameafure wifely calculated
to promote the interests and prefer ve
the tranquility of oor country ; and
that we consider the fame as a new
proof of that watchful regard for
the honor and prosperity of the na
tion, which has uniformly distin
guished the a'dminiftration of our
firft inagiftrate.
4th. Resolved, That the President
of the United States is the only or
gan thro' which the national will
can be made known to foreign pow
ers; and that any attempt of (aid
powers, or their ininiliers, to com
tnunicate with this country, upon
national objeds ot hei ways 1 han thro* 1
biin, is an indignity to ®ur con It i
t ution,an offence to the nation, and
ought to excite the apprehenfiun
and displeasure of all good and or
derly citizens.
t By order «f the Corporation,
John Broome, President.
A true extra# from the minutes,
Wm. Laight, Set'ry
Thefolfovrfog ftfbfcriptron lift will early iri
this week, be offered to the in habitants ok the
IcveVal wards by the undernamed committer,
who have been appointed tor that pur pole, by
the corporation of the Chamber of Commute,
viz.
" To alleviate the diftreflVsj and as far as
in our power,to save fiom theexiremeof wrctch*
rdnefs and despair, such .fellow beings as arc
doomed to drink deep ot the cup ot tnifery ; is a
duty incumbent on us all—and perhaps never a
fbbjrlt' prriVptcd i.fclf .so intereft'ngjo the fvtn«-
pathy o! the human heart* as the fuffercrs by tlie
difailer at the Cape, for whom the charitable
donation's df the cltitens of New-York arc
cited. Whatever caufcs may have led
event, it is not the btilintfj of chariiy to enqu:
it is.fuftcient that they are men, and mtfetablel
We, therefore the lubfcribers agree to pay to the
committee appointed by the Chamber ot Com
merce in this city, for. the relief of these diflref
fed individuals, the sums affixed to our oames.
Aezjj~York t Auguji i, 1.793.
ANNAPOLIS, MARYLAND.
In Cou nc 11, July 23, 1794. s>
. EbWarb Thornton, fcfq. having produce.4
to this board his commiflion a* Vice-Confut
fiom his Biitannic Majesty *or this State, toge
ther with an exequato* or recognition ol hi>faid
quality, under the hand of the Prefideni of the
United Mates :
Ordered, That the said recognition be pub
lished, tor the information and government of
the people of thi? State.
By Order,
T. JOHNSON, jun. Secretary.
GEORGE WASHINGTON,
Pitfident of the United States oj America,
To ai'l whom it may
FdwardThornton, E s q. bavmg.prod ucc<i
'n Tti ins comniiflioM as V'ce-Conful from h»s
K*>Unn<c Majeih, lor the State of -Mar\land. I
do heicby rtcognij:c h)in as such, and declarehim free lo exercise, vttfctn tfce (ii<l •/ }£a
rylsnd, such tuitions arid p< weri as may be
given or pei niittcd by l^c'iws o! thr Tiod w
the Confulsof naliori, &lptwc*n *rboTn"aVif4 the
United States no *r«|jty or eonveaiiort nk.iOi, for
pfrmittiflg fpectfie pftv. tts and ■
ixercitcd by Ufir Ci>nTul s rectjirtiesiiy". "* I
In tfftimony wlicrcoi, I t»a»e" c£i(t& AW
Te<urs in Ut, made pateirt r , «!»<* tSe frrf iif '<Be'
United Sui<;( Co be ttrrrumo affikoH. *
Given under My bond, a> the etiy Ph3»-
drlphia, the iWellth day of tuly, in ih'<?
yc»r bt Ms lotd, and ol tlfe lade*
penduiee of the UoucO Slite* of America,
ibe eiEhteeoth. ' I
(ligw4J G. WASHIHCrON.
tcfideiil,'
C^umet {igned t Thomas Jsvrtß&t»ir.
A L% ANY, July 29.
From fever* I recent circumfbnces, we aieled
to believe 'hat the Biitifr will very ihortly sur
render up the Wcliern Posts tothe United States.
Report fay-, that iroOps are aMilfliy now railed
lo garrison Niagara, &c. and that materials have
arrived in this city by dirc&ioo of the Minifte'r
of War, for building magazines in this neigh
bourhood.
FOR GAZETTE,
Mr. Fenno,
MUCH has b«in feid (more than it wj(,
I'uppofed thateven their small flock ol,'
moderty would have permitted the party tii
faj) refpeftmg the Jury in the late caule be
fore the Circuit Coftrt. I have not many oil
fc-rvations trt offer ill regard to the virtue, u-if-
J<m, Jfuril or ihdrpcr.dritte of said J.iwy*—but
thus moch may be depended on, that if it
fhiiilld be again aliened in the NattWnal Ga
zette, or anv other vehicle Of falfhdod, tll3l
the ■" ficuri'ty of the rights and liberties of
mankind," in the fmajleft decree, depended
<tn the virtue and independence of ?t Jimilar
Jury, not tHjf by any nieans ; wlit, irr that
cafe, the story of the man who slept all day
long from inebriation, the conflable'j story of
the rum-bottie, and a great many other sto
ries, all tending to fh;w that this business was
highly honorary not only to the city, but to
every individual concerned therein, whether
Marshal, Doctor, Pettifogger, or what not,
v/ith annotations, Sec. will most affuredlv be
handed to the puhl'c. There has net been
many fouler attempts madeiince the packing
times of James the second, and the infamous
Judge Jeffries. Q;
Philadelphia, Aug. 10.
Various reports having been circulated re
lative to the force of the British frigate the
J&pilon, we are authorized to aflert that the
force of that vefiel, on the .morning of the
<l.iy on which she en-gaged the Ambuscade, did
wot exceed 32 gqns, Engljfli fix, nine, and
twelve pounders, and 2ld men, officers and
niarflies inclikffecK
Capt. Boirjpiril.'ln Ms enfiagement
with the JJ'ittfh friffct*, W« d/effeJ i» #
j ickct, with the Cap of Liberty OA hU head.
'yiie French account of this acHon fays
the' Ambufcide loft 7 men killed, and J 5
wounded.
The account further fays, that the Engjifh
H ed a of old nails, brriken
knK-es, b'Milten pots and broken bottles—
JLngiifh, in their accounts of naval engagement* with
the French, have Jrequently charged tiicir enemies
with doing the fume.
Capt. Bompard has presented to the New-
York Tammany Society the colours which his
frigate wore during the engagement between
the Arabufcade and Boflon.
The committees appointed to colJeft sub
scriptions for the relief of the French emi
grants from Cape-Francois, in New-Yo k,
are proceeding in the business; and according
to the newspapers of that city, meet with
great foccefs—(everal thousand dollar; had
been fubtipribed on Wednesday last.
Subfcnptions are opened njfo in Boflon,
and In lijO't, in ajmoft aH parts of the Union.
The collection in this city for the relief of
the unfortunate St. Domingo fufferers, inde
pendent of tlie Theatie, and Circus benefits,
and of the colle&i6n m:ide by the French Pa
triotic Society, already exceeds 10,000 dolls.
The fublcription is not yet completed, and
•will probably produce 3. 000 more.
Captain Swart, arrived fefterday from St.
informs, that the armed veHel that
insulted the Dailßh flig had been
and the Captain ftnttsced to be hanged, a* he
«N|U (hew no commifiion. He, however, bad
rh«iort«nr to elcape.
Tne Petite Democrat*, after waiting off
•ur Capes J f days for the Sup jane, hearing
that <he «ii likely to be detained Tome time
in Philadelphia, fleered for <he Chefapeak,
where difturfcaoce] funoug iier crew have
thinned it.
Letters from PartMgaf mention the bap
tKm'of % ?<]>•>£ princess at Lifbpn,
dauglner eflhe Prinrt o(• Brazil. She was
baptitoed b/#4 nantej, thS firft two Maria
TheTtefa. "Vbe tereniohy wi■? performed
mvitK'a jng of water, up for that pur.
polo, last January, from the river Jordan, in
Asia.
AUTHENTIC M PRC A STILE INFORMATION.
It has been laid, that the last arrivals from
prance make no mention of a decree of the
National Convention relative to goodsbelong
inq; o their enemies, Sound on bourd neutral
velTi U. From the ti,ror,;q*e ue Par>s % how
ever, a very respectable* paper, edited by tw*
members of the Convention, we translate th<
©Mowing ariicie. Gen. Adv.
government appear defiroo
of treating as wildbeafts, who'ari
to be Srouglit to fu'nnit thro' hunger o»il»,
for they have order ol neutral veiTels, loaded
with prorlfions for out port*, to be ftopt: If
e«r,Tfrj»rif4js A»«rrai»tfSj lr is t!;t
»ccesiriek ut life are 8» ' The |
Con««rnTM>» has dccrefed tfcis dny, Tli«t#fay,
Mwfife viMMUrtiwMfMt
-•♦Marine, thaft*tbe tf-Wfif'Silj*'
j>rTjr»t«srs may stop and fend into
'(ke all vefll-li Wftrtt-
Tides# in thfe <vltol* ut in (*2i
f»ov ifiriri; foi' our enemies." v- >•< r.i
Extra# v} a Idler jfr&' a {A&iqT'm
(Spain) to kiy ttrrifpciWik ig#m, o**4 '
< i- •■ i
44 The scat citv of wheat hjL& beo< To great
here this foiae time pail, rhat we riay jufliy
fay we are bordering on a famine, in confe
duezjee of the few at rivals from abroad, which
nas obliged us to mix a porttofl of Bariey,
Bi ans* Indian Corn, &rc. wltt! our breacfV to*
make ,the little exiftencies of wheat go as far
a? porfible; and even this fabftitute, we fear,
would have been ere now etui a ufted had we
rot fortunately the arrival of some cargoes
from different quarters 1 .
41 A parcel of flour and wheat lias obtaifli
ed here the exhorbitant pi ice of 110 per qr.
for tlx?-wheat, and 20 1-2 [current dollars*,] -
per barrel for the flour, free of all charges,
and ready money. We think these prices
will be maintained until harvest, that pro
mise? preuy well, in consequence of tire re
frefhing ihnwers lately experienced, and even
after, they wjll.be supported very high, for in
years of the greatest abundance, the crops ne
ver fuflice for more than about three .or four
months consumption, which is materially in
created, as we have to supply a large* army in
France, that is entirely dependant 011 us tor
succours, and from what quarter we are to
look to for such fupplie3, we know not."
* A dollar currency in Spain is in vaUe about
E\trac7 of u letterfrom Bojlon, July 13.
I 4 Fallen man !" he paots for. liberty, and
yet perseveres in destroying freedom. But I
have the Conization to belie that a vast
majority of the people are more pleased with
our government, than the people of any other
nation in the worldwith theirs—and the puff
ing and spattering in fomtf abandoned papers, is
the work of very few. Two or three scribblers
in a State can ke>°p up the dust, and make
some folks believe they are numerous. A re
cent matter here will g'tve food for the Honi :*•
A suit is militated agatinft this State., as you
will fee by the papers, and Qur wife. Governor,
ever fiaunch irt defending his sovereignty p r *s
away, and all his fetters will join in the cr>—
Tirtie only can reveal the confeqliences>—-
I am a believer in Judge Jay's lawdo&rine :
but w'uether there is enough of the true re
publican spirit and principle in our country
to ftipport a true republic, time only can de
termine. Our great profeffed doflrine is, 44 a
government of laws, and not of Ac
cording to this principle (which is the life and
foulof republican government) not only States,
but the Nation, ought to be suable ; and as
the Natjoci appeals to the Jaws to recover its
due from individual citizens, citizens have au
equal right to appeal to the law foi justice—
otherwise the government is riot a govern
ment of laws, but a government of men. I
was at ftrlt sorry the a&ion v, as brought for
ward so soon, in the cafe of Georgia, but per
haps it is best to bring us to the touchstone
now, and fee whether we have virtue and
repubjicaniim fufficient tp maintain our go
vernment * It will try our democrats, who
talk so ioud and so much about their republi
canism
44 Ynu query as to our reprefentntives—-I
corje<Fture, with you, there may be some of a
doubtfulgtndcr % ,but I think they will all pull
the right way, and generally with our old
members. Our members cannot serve them
fclves by being on the wrong fide. This is
true, in refpetf to all members, but unfortu
nately for t'hemfelves, and the public, there
are some who think the crooked paths of übi
quity will bring them soonest to the point
they aim at."
* Nicktankjor the Antii oj Befit*,
New-Yo*k, August 8.
CITIZEN GfcNET arrived here-yesterday
at 12 o'clock : His arrival way announced by
the ringing of bells and the firing of ca"nnon ;
He was received at the battery by the com-,
niittee appointed to present him the address
voted on Thursday last, and conducted to the
New-Coffee hnufe, and from thence to bis
lodgings in Maiden Lane.
At a meeting of the (emmittee appointed to present
an Adaitfs to Citizen Genet, utforte's Hotel, $n
Wednesday the x ytk Augufl y 1703 ?
C«mmodore James Nicholson in the Chair.
This committee, while they entertain the
most profound veneration for the glorious
caufc of liberty in which the French nation is
engaged, and are ready and willing at all
times not only to express their unfeigr.ed at
tachment to the Republic ofF'ance, but their
si >cere and most Bearty wishes for its com
plete and perfect eflib'ifhment, are de<plv
iinp r efiVd with the importance of the United
States observing a ftrift neutrality between
the belligerent powers of Europe.
It is therefore the opmionof this committee,'
and they c!o accordingly refoJve, (one perion*
only dissenting) to recommend to their con.
flitucnts, that they join their fellow-citizen*,
in the meeting propoed to be held ta morrow,
in front of Trinity Church, in order to co
operate with them moil heartily in exprefl'ing
their iincere, warm and unabated attach,
ment for the person and charatfer of the Pie
fident of the United States—particularly our
approbation of bis late proclamation of neu
trality—and also, of his Excellency Governor
Clinton's, on tl»e fume occation.
j&y order of tbernmmitrec,
JAMES NICHOLSON, Chairman.
White Matlock, Secretary. • -.
CONS J ST £ NC Y.
SOME mn, who have n» principles to bmiß,
Make princiflei, not me'i >beii Uv'iitu To'tt
499
FOR THE GAZETTE.
The CHATTER of ABSURDITIES.
IN those a {pint of ablurdity shall
tlie people ihall fay one tiling, and
(vote' Who dub thcmfeives the organs of fbe peo
ple, (hail-fay another—and ihe voice of the peo
• pit; fliafi not from their own mouths,
, or from, that of their elected fubltitute*—but in
'the.lying oracle* of the kciei (kit iking prophet?
of the fatlfe gods, wlwtm neither the people nor
their fathers worshipped. The people ol the
raft, and the we(f, the north, and the froth,
• lh*n fa,y .there ic peace—and neutrality ihali be
(he counterfi^n—but the sons ol rapine and plun
-4r of anarchy, coolufionand every evil woik,
i the couhcerfign, and foal: sub
; Ait ute.in lieu thereof a (hibboieih, called Craft
tiicfce, of which they know neither the foiee or
meaping, having never felt tb. imprclHon there
of. And in thole clays the people (hall be ail in
all; and yfei the doings of the people (hall be
rcfiled and>idtculed oy then pretended friends ;
and the rights of de&ioa lhall be contended lot,
and the men whom the people hwcjreely defied, '
(hall be traduced and ftigmat ted as a band of
pickpockets and rogues; and yci the infallibi
lity of the people (hail be let up, as Ntbuchad-
Jet up a great image, lor all nation?,
tongues artdl people, to fall down dud woilhip.
And 1 this great image (hall deliver oracles, and
lark and light faying.*, yea windy out
Of a hollow cavity, even from the belly of the
fame—albeit, but one voice only (hall be heard,,
and that alone (hall be infallible, tho' it often
(peak in an unknown tongue. And there (hall
br a Babellous jargon- of languages in ihofe days;
afid ih« enemies ol peace (hall lay they arc the
ffiejids of order, while they rail against law and
government; and they (hall call themfelvcs the
fupportrrs ot union among the tribes, while they
exert their power to bicak the links Of the chain
/f»l harmony. . They (hjill alio malign the Con
stitution, the palladium ol Liberty, anO yet pie
•/. icj be (ticklers lor principles, without an at
tachment to men. They shall, in ihofc days,
make mccfTant eftort* to destroy the confid nee
of the people in the.work ol iheir own hands, if
by »Jiy means «hey may induce them to under
mine the foundations of Liberty, Law, and G9.
ionmatti, laid by their belt and molt experi
enced workmen ; and all this they lhall do un
der the plaulible pretext of being iiiends to the
inteiefi of the people. Yea, they (hall openly
propole to the people, that they return to a (and*
tope union—and a confederation of heads so
dilproportioned to each othei, that they appear
wheij arranged, like pins'head?, and billiard
balls. And 10, in thok days thne (hall be a
fountain opened, and a putrid Itream (hall issue
thereltom ; and wholoever (hall drink thereof,
(hall have a wouderlul change wrought in his
Vifdal faculty ; for albeit, before he had imbibed
the poisonous draught, the Columbian world
exhibited Nature in her molt beautiful auire,
Ind the musical founds ol peace, plenty, and
freedom, vibrated in dulcet nous on his
ears ; from henceforward, nothing but a barren
«> fait, is presented to his imagination, and all
ifhe hell of flavciy and difticfe haunts his pcr
» teiwty I and yei, ftiauge to tell, until this
? scene fj. teaiized, such will be the (ing-song of
the day, that all the vigilance of real patriotism
will be neceflary to lecure the solid bleftings
(njoyed. -And moreover there shall be a molt
wonderful sympathy between congenial fouls
more than 3000 miles asunder—and Euro
pean politics shall no longer be reprobated as the
bane of Columbia—and the vifiou of political
Empirics (hall run iu parallel linest-and the
piofp«£b of rnarchy and confufion Ihsll be
painted in the fame colouit iri both hemispheres,
and this (hail turn the monilcr 61 European po
litics into a bugbear, yea into a philolophical
blending of the equality and liberty of both
woildj. And the United Slates ol Columbia
(hall depend on God and their own llrengih,
until the Dt ity is no longer recognized, and
then the independence, freedom and exigence
at Columbia'thall depend on
The partisans of that insubordination at id
licence which is the liberty of vice,thole who
ar* the mrjl (lamo'oiij, illiberal, fr.J impudent, iq
tlbe caule at what they falieiy (all republi-
ere not, it is faiily prelumable, the
(rut men, who, in the moment of public adver
iity, d : ftrej> and terror, would be the last to
quit the post of true patiiotifm—cne post
of difficulty, duty, danger, glory.
, Thf'Ol'fcU 1N I JPI «IT Of REPUBLICANISM
is ill I'iMftlATK and EQUITABLE in CoUN
«i l, as i.eak less and t«rki*i.e in tie moment
6] rej'JiJite ACTION. Serene, deliberate, col
jjtttc, humane, true patriotism rtjei mag.
nani*oujly to the regretted, although refuijite,
combat ; and, sublimely vi rclding iht potent
fwotd of tqutly, fmitci the power ol defpolifm,
and commai.dt locial order anil repose.
United America, hiving patted ihrough the
revolutionary confix, now enjoys the smiling
i adianci <»f Heaven ; while the deep-charged
temped inverts the old world. Turning from
the or ient Eden in thi west, a far ditte
rr nt profpift demands attention j For (ernes like
\a hat »he Ameitcan citizens have witneflcd, may
Kf* R EA Ll2 ED OVER A WHOLE CONTINENT.
\ And. idea «n view, ihe eye c^phiJofo
, now rtgfrty fix on Europe f
Extend the vuw yet further ! Contemplate
th EXPANSIVE ENERGY OF PR I NtC IVJ, ES , and
eyt the UniveHt! Thin eftimasc the couifc. of
events, *nd consider what the piofpcft porten«t«!
*fhr allocating of the champions of liberty,
agjinft rheconfpirating fui>p'»riers of despotism,
the £ff*mbhng of their rclpc&ive power?, in va
rious quaiicr# of the globi, the conflicts of their
numerous forces— iow ft ke the tnind, as ap-
CONVULSION'S OF THE WORLD*
And a GENER AL EARTHQUAKE, undoubt
ed! v # mult OVERTHROW THE COLOSSI'S OF
DESPOTISM. 0
For THIS CONVULSIVE CATASTROPHE,
THE WORLD HAS BEEN PREPARINC FOK
centuries. T I form an eft! mat r of the iub
ji4i, open a broad eye on the IJnivctfe. 4od view
•its ptogrefliye revolution!
EXTRACTS.
SiniMr it h-.u heer moittJify'afiwetcA fey th»
a#ui-pa£ific junto, tiiat the I'refluent of tne
United States tie IcntttttfHtt.*
the peopltfin the ftocttota'atfen i*t'Noutralit|-.
It most pteafwi W every Wai lepupfl
can to find, tb«r rtttre is a>atr piolpsu of atV
unequivocal rfecifion of th» gee&iOft. Metft
iftgs Have been Biw in many of tbt
tiowas an<) iflf
of Wbit?l», tw r osCnfti Ifaat *W
fair or of tiifc Priitternationi (J)hhSr,rtgi( <»*£
a g»«it- ihßny ji-'acei, »■<:<{
ffrere u n&ibiAt W- teii-SdjfJ a»in tc
thro'the'Union. . * '
QlfF.RliS-! Bf'p CsrrtSpenM.l
/ *" - - — —-
Whether tiie power of railing or levying
soldiers or failoi s in any country, is not ap
; pfropriate to tbe-foverevpjiityof such coiwtcy •
If two Juch powers are or may be exereifctl
at one and the fame time in any partxular
Country, i* nor the Government ofiuch c<Kin
try a manlier ?—-Can it be fuppofcd tbat the/iv
preme executive of this touClry will on any
i occasion, consent either implicitly or explicit
ly to any participation of the Aipreme public
authority—much It A to any allnmption of It*
independent exercife?—Would not iuch a
relinqui foment be treason a gain ft the majesty
of the people of these sovereign independent
From the General Adver lifer.
Query. Is not the report of* the late pro*
fecution against Gideon Henfield, lately pub
liflied [in the National Gazette and General
Advertiser,] wicked,cfuel and falfej as tend
ing to mislead the ignorant and unwary, by
holding, out the idea, that the determination
in that cafe niuft be an invincible precedent
in all future tfunlar cases ; whereas it is well
known that any American citizen violating
our neutrality is ffiJl liable to prosecution,
and if found guilty by a candid and impartial
jury, caudMTy and impartiafJy fuinmoned by
our Marfnal, is liable to punitnment ?
puiRY. is not the adve' tifeflftcr.t of ;tl:e
French Conijul in viting tl at! Friends 1c Liberty'*
(which includes, literally, I hoj>e, Americans)
to fervke on hoard the French frigate";,
blameable, and pernicious, being attended by
the (lime definitive confequcnces ?
The following is the artirje referred to in ike above
Que} id.
u By this verdict, which, ajccoiding to the
charge of the court, includes a d£c;fipu on the
law as Well as the JaLf?j, tt is now eftahiifhed,
that a citizcn of the United States may law lull/
enter on board a French privateer; and, it i*
prefumabJe,that no other prolecution,for t)i«;-
fame cause, can be sustained—as it would be
contrary to the principles of impartial juliice,
that any man ftiould, in future, be convicted
and puniihed, for doing ichai iu Gideon Henfteld
was no crime, and incurred »*>penalty."
Nat. Gap.
To the Editor o/ M; Na t;onal Gazette.
PHILIP, between youjand I,
They've made you believe a lie ;
The author of <l Just ce"— ij> not John Fenno—
lufiiu U an Artifl — Fftil,
And tho* yov (wear yas you a.-?//,
With his most matter ly quill,
Juflice is done to the Poet Phi Frereau.
ARRIVEDtfMAe PORTgj PHILADEI.PHf A.
Sch'ir. M»ru, Pe»plei,° N. Providence ams Si.
Amcrica, Wfiifeinjton, Cjpe Frjucots
Sloojl'Mnrniag Star, Wild«ri, Virgjiifa
Lark, Burrow*, St. Mariin»
Nantucket, July 23. Arrived here the
following velTels ftoin a whaling cruise, on
the coalt of Brazil—Ship Columbia, Joseph
Bcnnet, 900 barrels whale oil ; brig Leo,
William Ciifby, 55 > barrel ;; brig Amazon,
D. Giles, 65} ; &ip Columbia, Philip Foldick,
700 barrels.
INFORMATION FOR NAVIGATORS.
LlT'l LF. F.Ci, HARBOR.
When you arc in the lat. 39> 3'i N. and
wilh to proceed into Little Egg Harbour, run
in for the land till you discover two beacont
on or near the extreme point of the N. lleach,
bringing them in one line they will beaf W.
N. W. from you. Run in that direflion till
you paCs the south break-head, which lies on
the larboard hand. You will then discover
two beacons on Tucker's beach, bearing S. W.
by S. at the fame time Tinker's hou!« will
bear S. W. By (leering in this direction, you
will carry in ia f.et water over a middle
ground, which lies on the (larboard har.d.
But in order to keep the heft water, you
mud haul dole in with the foutli breaker, as
there is no danger within half a cable's length,
where you will carry t'rom 16 to 18 (eet wa*
ter, and regular foundings on the starboard
hand, with fuflicient room to work a topiall
veflel, that does not exceed 12 feet, but with
a leading wind you ruay run in with a draught
of 14 or 15 feet with fafety. When you are
up with Tucker's beach W. N. \V. is your
courle to the Fox Burrs, or Weft-Ms (h,
which you may lay along fide of with inlety,
in )6 feet wafer. This hnrbor is very con
venient in the winter seas.m, being free
from ice, and feyeral other obftacies.
The beacons 011 thf north beach are two
spars, 4J feet in length, and a sixty gallon
calk haif way up ; and a ten gallon calk off
top, each painted black, the" pars are white.
Those on Tucker's beach are spars painted
white and red, with a plank halfway up, in
a horizontal direction, ai d blatk. These bea
cons are perceivable at fix. or eight miles dil-
(Signed) ?*«{«fiP*" ». of
■ th* Vigilant Cutter.
-Davio M/ihius, firft b«nf h
Pilot f>>t New.YorJt.
PRICE Of STOCKS
6 per Ctr.ti, ) 7 9
3 per C-nt», 9,9
Deferred, ICM7
Fall fharet Biok 0. 5. 3 pri ccui. t/tTo the Public.
S£«- V»I
*' -i '
*i • ■ 1
THE Editor of the Gazette of the United
Statj.s, propose publishing the Paper,
under that Title, every Evening, Sunday's
excepted.
To render it interesting as a Daily Publi
cation, it Jhait contain foreign and domestic,
commerce* and political Intelligence Es
says and Oblervations, local and general
Maritime information .-—Prices Current of
Merchandise and the Public Funds. Also a
Nummary o4"tl*e proceedings ofCongrefs, and
of the Ligiilatu.e of this State s—with a
iketch of Coij£reflional Debates, Uc.
Advertizing favors will be gratefully re
ceived.
TERM S.
To be printed on paper of the demy fixe ;
larger size shall be fubftitured in Decem
ber next.
The pr'ce Six Dollars per Annum, to be
paiH half Yearly.
When a fufficient number of Subscribers is
obtained, the Publication (hall commence.
In the interim, the Gazette will be publiih
ed twipe a week as uiual.—Subfcriptions are
refpelt fully solicited by the Public's humble
servant,
JOHN FENN,O.
Subfcription\ are received at the City Tavern,
Stuth Setoud Sticet—bv Mr. Dvbjon, at the Stone
flouje—by other per fans who are in pcjfeffion oj fub
fvption pipers, and by the Editor > at his kouft,
No, 34, Sorth fifth-Sheet.
Philadelphia, July, *798»
INSURANCE COMPANY.
Philadelphia, July ift, 1793
NOTICE is hereby given to the members ol
the Insurance Company of North Ameri
ca, that the Dirr&ors have declared a dividend
(to this day) of fix per cent on the amount of the
firft inftalmcni, and of one per cent per month,
on the sums paid towards the second and third
instalments, calculating from the firft day of
the month following that in which these pay
ments were m?de. The Dividend will be pa:d
t» the Stockholders or their Reprefcntatives, at
the Company's Office, (No. 119, south Front-
Street) at any time after the 7th inft.
EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'ry.
(p?" As the members of this Company are much
dijperfed throughout the United States, the Printers
in the [everalflates are requejled to give the abuve a
place in their netujpapers.
RULES
To be observed in tranfa&ing Bunnefs with the
Insurance Company
OF NORTH-AMERICA.
j ft. A LL orders for Insurance must be given
i. jl in wrufhg, signed by the applicant ;
and as minute a defciipti'in of ihe veflei is ex
petted, as the person ordering the insurance can
give, refpe£iing her age, built, how found and
fitted, and whether double or Angle decked.
2d. All policies will be ready tor dciivrry in
twenty-four hours after the order for insurance
is accepted at the office, and the policy must be
taken up in ten days.
3d. Notes, with an approved endorser, for all
premiums, must be given in ten days, payable
as follows :
For American and Wfft-India rifques, in
three rronths after the date of the policy.
For Euiopean rifques, in fix months.
For ludia and China rifques, in 12 months.
For rifques by the year, in eight months.
For rifques for Ax months, in fonr mouths.
And for rifques for any lesser time, in three
months.
4th. Lofles will be paid in ten days after proof
and adjustment ; but if the note given for the
premium ihall not have become due within that
time, the amount of it (ball, neveitheiefs, be de
ducted from the loss to be paid.
The Infuranee Company of North-America
hereby give notice to all whom it may concern,
that, agreeably to the above rules, they are ready
to receive all orders for infuranee, which may
be addressed to ihem, accompanied with direc
tions to some refponfi'otc house in Philadelphia
for rha payment of the premiums within the
time limited.
In cafe the rifques offered (hall be approved,
the infuranee (hall be immediately effe&ed ;
othei wife notice (hall be given, either bv answer
to the peTfon applying, or to his agent, in Phila
delphia, as may be ordered.
Bv order of the Dire&ors,
EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'ry.
3- 4W
Albany Glafs-Houfe.
The Proprietors of the Glafs-Manufactory, under
the Firm of
M'CLALLEN, M'GREGOR and Co.
BEG leave to inform the public, that they have
now brought thrir WINDOW-GLASS to
such perfedlion,. s will be round, on companion,
to be equal, in quality, to the bed London
Crown GJafs.
Having fixed their prices at a lower rate than
imported Glass, they are induced to believe, that
importationsof this article will be discontinued,
in proportion as their works are extended.
They propose to enlarge the scale of this busi
ness, and as the success of it will depend on the
patriotic support of the public, the y beg leave to
solicit their friendly patronage in the pursuit of
a branch which will interest every lover of
American Manufactures.
All orders for Window-Glass, of anv size,
will be received at the Store of Rhodes and
MacGrfgor, No. 234, Oueen-ftrcet, New-
York, anrl at the Glals Wa»ehoufe, No. 48,
Market-ftTcet, Albany, which will be punctually
attended to.
(£3T WANTED, fix ftnart a&ive LADS, not
exceeding 16 vears of age, to be indented as
Apprentices, and regularly inftrutted in the
various branches of Glass-Making.
Also, three YVindow-Glals M«ikeri, to whom
great encouragement will be given, ' ~
May i, 1793
Amc'ricnn Stocks.
THE Rcfourcc* of the United Stales, of Ame
rica tKiriy, in proportion u* then l>rbf,
probably lap-:nor 10 iliole of any huropeau Go
vernment ; and they having made ample Provi
sion for the Payment of thp Inieieft of thrir
Si ocks, only Iwo Arrangement* more feera ne
tefTary to make them a very eligible Piopcrty to
Ptopie io this Country ; v-.z.
lft. To make I hem tranijerable in London ; and,
2d. To provide Means for. paying the Jnterejl or
dividend*, in London, punctually on a eertaw Pay
vithout Expence.
To accomplish these two Objcftj, the annexed
ion is ptiblifhed, and an Office ts k.< p
sndfr the Direction of the Trustees, by
\ld,k where c<«nfl ant attendance'!
iven, fur ihe Putpofeof receiving Stock, »r»|
nak.«ng Tiansfeis.
The°Dividenris will be received in America
3y ihe Trustees, and will be paid quartc-i !y by
the LONDON and MIDDLESEX BANK,
Sfratford-place, London, (a* mcuuonrd m the
EX c laration ot the Trtifttcs,) on the Fust Days
ot January, April, July, and Ottobec, without
any Deduction.
It is hoped that tbcfe Measures will render
making Transfeis airti receiving Dividends as
convenient ax at the Bank ot England, or any
other Place. Per font' who wifti to purcfiafe
American Stocks,or to tranfail any other iiiifi
ncCs in tbem, by applying pcrfonaliy at the
Office, or by Letter to Mr. Leavenworth, will be
carefully attended *o.
Freeman's-Court, Coi nhill % May »6, 1793-
DECLARATION OF TRUST.
WE, Girard Noel Edwa rds,Samue&
Smith, Georce Temple r, Nathaniel
Middle ton, Richard Johnson, and John
Wedgwood, Elquires, Bankers :
At the Rcqueft of sundry Persons, have con
sented and agreed to hold »n Trust for ihcm and
otheis, for the Space of Twenty Year?,
American Stocks as ihcy fhafl, from lime to
Time, transfer to us. And (Security having
been given by us for the Purpose) we engage to
receive the Dividends, that may be paid in
America, on all such Stock as shall be so trans
fered to us in Trust, and "to pay the fame to the
several Proprietors, at our in
Stratford-place, London, Three Months after we
shall have received the fame in America, at the
Rate of Four Shillings and Six-pence Sterling for
each Dollar received, without any Dedu£tion.
For the Purpose of Transfering the said Stock
to the T1 uftces and from Individuals to each
other, an Office is opened in Freeman's-Court,
Cornhill, where regular Books are kept under
our Infpe&ion and Dirr&ion. We farther de
clare that we will transfer to any Peifon or
Persons his, her, or their, Stocks wheo required
so to do.
LotiUm, Uav tjrt,i793.
GERARD NOEL EDWARDS.
SAMUEL SMITH.
GEORGE TEMPLER.
NATHANIEL MIDDJ.ETON.
RICHARD JOHNSON.
JOHN WEDGWOOD.
GENERAL POST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia, May 27, 1793.
$oo Dollars Reward.
WHEREAS a certain THOMAS SLO£S
GANTT, has lately made his escape
from Baltimore County Gaol, to which he was
committed under a charge of having robbed the
Eastern Mail, on the tßth day of January last :
Notice is hereby given, that a reward of five
hundred dollars will be paid at this Office, to
any person or persons who (hall apprehend the
said Thomas Slofi and deliver him into the
cuftodyof the keeper of the said Gaol, or into
thecaftody of either of the Marshals within the
United States, so that the said Thomas Slofs Gautt
may beeffe&ually secured, and forthcoming to
answer the above mentioned chatge.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
The following is a defcriptiort of the above
named Thomas Sloss Gantt : He is about
(jx feet high, strait and well made, has light co
loured h2ir, tied behind, fair complexion and
has a down look, when spoken to.
TO THE PUBLIC.
[CST THE Editor proposes to continue the
publication oj the Gazette of the United
States, Jor dijlant circulation, after the firJi of
December next, on the following terms, viz.
It Jhall be pubhjhed on Wednesdays and
Saturdays, on paper of the Medium fize —ukich
is larger than the present.
The price, Three Dollars per annum,exclufive
of pollage.
Subfcrtptioni to be received by the refpedive Tcjl-
Majlers throughout the Union, or such other persons
as may fee proper to col/eft them.
The papers to be for warded by pofl twice a meek.
No packets to contain left than six papers- and no
subscriptions to be received for a less term than fix
months.—Payments to be conflantly fix months in
advance.—Twenty per cent. deduction from the price
of the Gazette, tvi/l be allowed to those who col
teSl and forward the subscription money, free of ex
pense, in full of aUcharges for their trouble in the
business. -
The publication will contain as vfual, a variety pj
original essays and domfiic intelligence,
and a summary of the proceedings of the Legiflutute
oj the Union, &c. &c. Attention will be paid
to difpaUhing the papers with punctuality, and Sub
scribers may depend on receiving them as regularly,
as the pofis arrive.
June 8.
THE. £ D ITU R
MOST ttrvefily rtquefis those of his dijlant Sub
/enters who are in arrears for the Gazelle, to make
payment as fionas possible.—Those persons who hate
receivedfubfeription money orOiis account are defirrd
to remit the fame. The arrearages for the Gazette
hive accumulated to a serious amount—Serious, as
they are the only resource to difebarge very feriou i
engagements incurred in the prosecution of this er
pcnjivepublication. Philadelphia, June 26,
cpi2w
500
War Department,
JuguJ} \JI, 1793-
INFORMATION is hereby giwnto ail the
Military Invalids of the United State*, that
tne sums to which they arc intitled lor fix months
of iheir annual penlion, from the 4th day of
March last, and which will become due on the
sth of September next, will be paid on the said
day by the ComimUionera of the Loans, wiih
in the States rcfpe&ively under the ulual regu
lations.
Pojl-Majler General.
By Copunan6jf the \
fKtitDurT «fticVmr%o States. r
rf. *."N'o X, «ecr</«ry »tWf -
.!*. B. Tit filiates U (ke rtfftSm •&** *•*■
rifled t» pibtfjk ft* <&»%'* liat utvjf*g*ri Jf
tht JfUce vj tzua month t. , f
bOR StILE, B Y
MAT HEW CAREY,
At his Store, No. Tiß, Ma/ket-ftrcct,
PhiLADILPHI A ,
THE AMERICAN MUSEUM, from its
commencement in January, 1787, to 11s
termination in December, 1792, in twelve vo
lumes, orice, neatly hound and lettered, nine
teen dollars and one fifth.
The opinion of the President of the United
States, refpefting this work, is as follows :
4< I believe the American Milieum has met
with ©xtenfivc, I may fay, with univerlal ap
probation from competent judges ; for 1 am o?
opinion, that the work is not only eminently
calculated to dominate political, agricultural,
pnilofophical, and othtr valuable information ;
but that it has been urtijormly conduced with tape,
attention, avd propriety. II lo thefc important
objects be sup rarided the more immediate de
fii»n of rescuing public documents from obli
vion—l will venture to pronounce, as my fen
ttment, that a more useful literary
PLAN HAS NEVER BEEN UNDERTAKER; IN
AMimCA.or one more deserving of pub
lic encouragement."
J one 6-
By THOMAS JQHNMN, DAVID
STUART,& DANIEL CARROLL,
Efquirts,
Com mtss loner s appointed by Government to
prepare the Public Buildings, See. within the
City of WaJhington t for the reception of Con
gress, and for their permanent Ttfidence after
the yean 800—
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City.
50,000 Tickets at 7 dollars, are 350,000 dollar*,
LIST OF PRIZES, v.7.
1 Superb Hotel, with baths, )
out houses, &c.&c. to cost $
1 Cash Prize
1 ditto
1 ditto
1 ditto
2 ditto
10 ditto
20 ditto
100 ditto
200 ditto
400 ditto
5,000 are
1,000
500
100
5°
*5
20
10
i,ooq ditto
15,000 ditto
16, J37 Pri/01
33,265 Bi»oki
50,000
By this fchcrae at leaji the amount of the tick
ets will return to the fortunate adventurers, and
yet the federal City will gain its obje£f thereby,
in a magnificent building designed both for pub
lic and private convenience.
Although Come expence must neceff.irily at
tend the conducing of the lottery, (which ex
pence will be taken from the principal pri2ej the
Cotnmiffioners having agreed to prcfent in re
turn a fufficient quaruity of excellent free-flone,
together with the best adapted lots for the hole
and tor the out-houfes, the value of the lotter\
entire may be fairlyrated ai fomtthing more than
par : In this important iuftance it will be found,
on examination, to exceed all the lotteries that
have ever been offered to the Public in this or
perhaps in any 01 her country. The keys of the
Hotel, when compleat, will be delivered to the
fortunate poiF< (Tor of the ticket drawn aagainll
its number. —AH the other prizes will be paid,
without dedußiqii t in one month after the drawing, by
the City Treafurcr at Washington, or at such
Bank or Banks as may be hereafter announced,
for theconveniency of the fortunate adventurers.
The drawing will commence on Monday the
6th ofSeptembei next, at the City of Washing
ton.
Tickets may be had of Col. Wm. Dickens, City
Treafurrr of Walliington ; Thaxer £$ J<rtle{, of
Charleston, South-Carolina ; Gideon Denijon, Sa
vannah; MelTrs. James We/l&Co. Baltimore;
Mr. Peter Gilman, Bolton ; and at such other
places as will be hereafter published.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given for the best Plan ol an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and cold
Ballu, Stables, and other out houses, if prefentci
enorbejore the 10th tj April next; and a pre
ference will be given to the Arull for a Con
trail, provided he be duly qualified to
compleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be crested, will
be a corner lot of about go by 200 feet, with a
back avenue to the stables, &c. Se&ions a».d
estimates of the expenle will be expected
with the elevations. &■:. compleat ; and 50,600
dollars must be regarded by the Architect as the
utmost limit in the exprnfe int.nrlcd lor this
purpose. S. BLODGET,
Agent for the attain of the City.
March, 61793
PLANS
City of Washington,
Sold by the 800
VOBSON, CAREY, YOU.VG, & CRUKSHAh'K.
«s.» wJ
Tf'H *w P;<»J>° r -*iiWil3
ioiy* ef ihe Stcnctwy J
T«^"»lWW».tkt <Q<m«t«'h *»y •<>*
Sff.VT ? or - M* o»«piy •! ,»i)
tI R*UW Pltk& 'p*p be requirKi toi U*eufc w|
iks Umttff tk llk frft d»> of Juvuvj
of Jprconixr 1-714, W> lh
4w> «L ,tbp pUcci, «*d wun. thg
dilfeia* «».
t. Ati/if pl»sc 01; pfjcotoeiwisi York.Twn
•fU HI. wl. wid
, ,A«pMcCk krviD fulfaurgh id
, ihc mouth of Bigßcsvci imiu'b
of B«g ¥t ««!,£( t. k'.
3. At any place or pieces from the (aid month
to the upper laljkolthc ja,i.d Big, Btavcr, <ud
the upper falls.
4. At any or pla< es fnfri, t foic upper
(ails to Motioning, and at Mahoning.
5. At any place or pj-ces from llic fa-d Ma
honing over to the Navigation of the river
Cayahog?, and at Hit (aid Head Navigation.
6. At any place or p'4Cfs Jrom itv- sard Hrad
Navigation to the n»< uth of the laid nver CayaQ
hoga, and at the fatd rnouth.
7. At any place 01 olac » betwixt the mouth
of the Hip Beaver Creek, ;«» the mouth of t"he
river Mufkingum, and uo the fjid river to the
Tufcarowts, and at the Tafi.M&wrt, and thence
over to the Cayalsogfc 1 iVcr, ml thence down the
said river to its acourh.
8. At any pee or places b«w»*t the mo.jiii
of the river MuPiciogum and :He oiou h of the
Scioto river, and at itoe mouth of the said river
Scioto.
9 At any placte or p!arr» betwixt the mouib
oi Scioto river A-the snoutb of the Great Miami,
at the month oh the Great Miami, and Irora
thence to the tapidsor the fa lis of iht O* io, and
a: the laid tapids.
19. At any place or placcs betwixt the mou h
of the Great Miami, up the faio Miami to and
at Pique Towo.
11. At a,uy p».*ee or places from Fort WafVtj
ington to Fort Hamilton, and at Fort Hamilton,
At any place or places Fort Hamilton >q
St. Clair % and at Fort St. Clair.
12. A' ?ny place or placcs from Fort St. Clair
to Fort Jcfferfon, at Fort J<fferfon.
13. A' ar.y pl<»ce or puces from Fo> t J<fferfrn
to the fie Wot a&ioa of the 4th <»t November,
1 791, and at the said fl- Id ol
14.- At any place or places from ihe said frrf4
of action to the Miami Villages, and at the
Miami Villages.
15. At any place or place* from the said Mu
*mt Villages to ttaa falls of the Miami tu/efj
which empties into Lake Erie, and at the fa>4
f3.11>, and from 1 (fence to it* mouih, aud at us
mouth.
j6. At any plaee or peaces ffom the mouth of
the said Miami river of Lake Erie to Sandufky
•Lake, and ar Sandufky Lake.
17. At any place or places from the fa,id $3/1-
dusky Lake* to the mouth of the 1 iver Cayahoga.
5©,e00
18. At any place or places from the mouth of
the said rivet Cayahoga to Prclque ]oe, and at
Prefque I He.
2$, 000
20,0C0
15,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
1 o,oco
19 At any place or places from Prefque Isle
to the itream running into Lake Erie irom to.
wards the Jadaghque Laky, and thence over to
and at the laid Jadaghque Lake,and thence dovn
the Alleghany river to Fort Franklin.
10,000
20. At any place or places from Prefqtie Jfle
to Le Beuf, and at Le Beuf
10,00©
10,000
20,000
21 ■ At any place or places from Le Beuf to
Fort Franklin, and at Foil Franklin, and from
thence to Piitfburgh.
150,000
22. At any place or places from the rap'idjof
the Ohio to the mouth of the Wabafh river, ami
from the mouth of the said Wabafh river to tht
mouth of the river Ohio.
Poll»r» 350,000
23 At any place or places on the East firie ©f
the river M'.ffiffippi, from the mouth of tlvt Ohio
river, to the mouth of the Illinois river.
24. At any place or placcs from the mouth of
the fa d Wabafh river up to Fort Knox, and at
Fort Knox.
f§, At any place or places from Fort Knox up
the t id Wabafh to Ooittanon, and at Ouittanon.
26. At anyplace or placcs from Ouiuatton,
up the taid Wabafh, to the head navigation of a
branch thereof called Little River, and at the
fa'd head navigation of Little River.
27. At any place or places from-the saW hemi
Hiyer over urthe Mu>Tw<.Vil»
28. At any place or places from the mouth of
the river Tentffec to O:co<.happo or Bear Creek,
on the said river, inclusively
29. At anv place or placcs from the mouth of
the river Cumberland to Nafliville, on the fatd
river, and at Nalhville.,
go- And at any place or places within thirty
miles of (aid Na(hvi!le to the Southward, West
ward or N-orthward thereof.
Should any rations be required at any places,
or within other diftri&s, not fpecified in thrfe
propofsls, the price of the fame to be hereafter
agreed on betwixt the public and the contractor.
The rations to be fupplicd are to couiift. or the
following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or slur.
One pound of beef, or | of a pound of pork,
j One quatt ot fait,
Mwo quarts of vinegar, f
r n , ( f " ' > per too rations,
two pounds ot soap, C r
One pound of candles/ )
The rations are to be furnifbed in such quanti
ties as that there (hall at all times, during the said
term, be fufficient tor the confumptiop of the
troops at each of the said potts, forthe space ot at
Iratt 3 months in advance, in good arid whole
some provisions, if the fame (ha)ll>e requited.
It is to be understood in each cafe,that all lolfes
fnUained by the depredations of the enemy, or by
means of the troopso! the United States, fball be
paid lor at the pnccs of the or
destroyed, on the dcpofitions of two or more
creditable characters, and the certificate of a
corntniffioncd officer, ascertaining the circum
stances of t he loss, and the amount ot the article#
tor which lomDeufaiioo is claimed.
The contrast lor the above supplies will be
made either for one year, or tor two years, a* may
appear eligible. Petfons disposed to contract
will therefore confine their offers to one year, or
they may make their proportions so as to admit
an elf£ti*.n ot the term of two years.
The oftrrs max compnfe ail the places which
have keen fprctficd, or a part of ihcm only.