..: ;;■ "'■■■ v■ ■ ■' '' ■"
<
A NATIONAL w'gIJISHE.O: A»» SA.tC.RA
[No. 116 of Vol. IV.]
To the Public,
TirC' Editor of the Gazette of the United
States, proposes publilhing the Paper,
under that Title, every Evening, Sunday's
excepted
To render it interesting as a Daily Publi
cation, it lhali contain foreign and domeftir,
commercial and political Intelligence Ef
ftysand Observations, local and general :—•
Jflaritinii-information : —prices Current of
Merchandize and the Public Funds. Also a
summary of the proceedings of Congress, and
of the L?gillature of tliis State : —with a
Hcetcji of CongrefiionaJ Debates, ,&c.
Advertising favors will be gratefully re
ceived.
T si R MS.
To he printed on paper of the do my Cue ;
toir* tt liiwyr shall befubftitutrd in Dedenj*
ber next.
Tbaprice Six Dollars per Annum, to be
paid half Yearly.
When a fufficient number of Subscribers is
obtained, the Publication lhall commence.
In the interim, the Gasette will lie publilh
ed twice a week as ufna!.—Subfcriptious are
refpeftfu'ly solicited by the Public's humble
servant,
JOHN FENNO.
Sutfcriptions are received at the City Tavern,
South Second Street— by Mr. Doljon, at the Stone
House—by other perjnns who are in pl'jjtjjton njju'n
fcripiiqn papers, and by the Editor at his houfe t
A'j 3 Nurtk Fifth-Street.
Philadelphia, July, 1793?
H If. D i TOR
MOST earnejlly refuep those of his dijlant Suh
fuibfs mho art inqircwjor the Cazctte, to make
foment ai f*n*i poffthle.—Thofe perfms who have
f u-:vc4filifcription money on hn account are desired
to remit the fane. The arrearage*for the Gaiette
htve aHUmulafed to aferitms amount —VfW>, as
they are the onl\ lefourte to difch.arge very serious
(*gastv)e>!ts incurred in the projection of this ex
fenjivcpublication. Philadelphia, June 26.
.. . . \-
This day is fubiijhed, by
M A T H E W CAREY,
Ko. 118, M»tket-fttcet, Philadelphia,
No. IX. of
Guthrie's Geography,
IMPROVED,
wiiln MAP of AFRICA.
'T'HJ# T»l»»b4« work will contain [exdufvt ,
Ji of tM uttfp if .ttx lo«4im e JitUu of '
Bisosut NcwtHampfhirr, Maffachnfem, Coo- '
Bstocat, R. l{Ui«WVtrwiout, N. Yor It, N. Jer
sey, Ptiioly'.naiiii,Qi'Wwarc. Maryland,, Ytf»
J£. Carolina, S. CWQlitHj,
x*d Uc«r*i*. 4
. cdAtaitif a psap-oF the fcat,of war in ;
fcutopj! i" Kf». «.'a ittap.M Hungary and Euro- :
Tur kgy j No. g. a map of the countries
found the<Xqfrh IM e ') No. 4. a whale (hect
J*»p of ; No. 5. a plait of the annil
lat|r sphere ; N/>. 6. a map of South. America ;
i?o. 7.1 ipi;p ot SLwiticrland ; qnd No. 8. a chart
•f the worlp.
Such of ibe citizens of Philadelphia, as have
pot had an opportunity ivf examining this work,
rpqurfV'ft 10 fend for (he numbers already
Julbiiiherf, m order 10 fttisly themfclves how
far it deferrcs their patronage. If, on infprc
tiou, tbey fcywid not approve of it, their luoncy
■will be freely returned.
Besides the improvements in the Ame
rican Geography, the accounts of France will
beectf-aftcd frem the French Geography, pub
liflitd since the.revolution ; the map ot Fiance
will be <>iu{rj»yrd agreeaWy 10.the division into
departments: the history of Russia, which, in
the London edition, is carried no farrher than
is continued to the late execrable invabon
of Poland by Catharine : the account of Swe
den his been compiled and numberless
other improvements will be made in this edi-
*,* Subfciiptions are received by the bock
f-Ucr» in Boftno, New-Y-ork, Baltimore, Wil
mington, Richmond, Chatleflun, &c. &c.
July 10.
EXTRACT.
WAR, may be of advantage to a race of
barbarions, who have noteing to do, and no
thing to lose ; l>ut $ for a commercial nation,
it can be nothing better than a farmer defert
ii»g Ms barveft ro bet at a horse-race. But,
m an infant government like our*, to hazaid
a fo:evn war, unless from the last neceiuty,
be the ueiglnh of madness.
Wednesday, July io, 1793.
t; ■"■"T-ir
Df.rtc of ]«l*e cccluJcJ from our hfl. '
IN case, I am aware that it
. to only f»id the.veJTel ** teaiujin tt pa,"
but it' not, it rather appears that it would t.e
morr proper foi a diplomatic t»ian a judiciary
examination. The ginfcrii principle as to
the capture b agreed ; and is fi;ni!ar to that
eftabliihed in our treaty with France, which
ought to have its proper weight.
" It *ai resolved, by the whole court of
King's Bench, upon conference and delibera
tion, that the Spaniard whole (hip had been
taken by an enemy and brought into England,
a friend to both parties, had loft the property
of the goods forever, and had no remedy for
thpm in England. And relied principally up
on the book, in 2. R. 3. übi l'ppra bei'pg of Co
great authority iV by that book he that will
sue to have restitution of the goods rubbed at
sea, ought by law toprove two things, ift,
that the sovereign of the plaintiff was, at the
time of taking, in amity with the King of
England ; 2d, that lie who took tlie goods
was, at the time of takmg, in amity with the
sovereign of him whose gflros were taken,
For, if he who took them was in enmity vit&
the sovereign of him whole goods were taken,
then was it no depredation or robbery, but a
lawful taking, as every enemy might take
from another." 4. ins. 154-
It is true thai by the laws and customs <?f
nations, the capture if taken in neutral
bound-?, is not a lawful prize, but I 00 not
fee that this court can get at that circwa
(lancc without holding plea as to the laaju/urjs oj
the prize. It-is the original question and not
collateral matter whicn determines ji.r.idie
tion. The courts of common law in England
will not take cognizance of any thing arifirig
out of the qtieftion prist or no 44 because
the original caufc muitall come into question
again." And yet the admiralty had deter
mined that the ship was no prize.
This will be a proper.fubjeft of enquiry
on the part of oiir government or in a court
of the country of the captor. Every nation
has established theft courts and knowing that,
if at war, they are anfwerab'e t° a nation at
peace or in amity, if violations oi territory
happen in capture*, care is taken to examine
into this cii'curnfta"ce. It. on tl
tne capture islllegr.l vt n 10 adjudged ; and
tfte party taken is liable to damages. Wpe-.
ther fnch damages fliatl exceed tne- amount
of the fecuri'y given by commanders of pri
vate (hips oi'war. or whether one nation is
answerable for injuries, done by its lubje<scs to
ethers, contrary to, or without its orders, is
a matter in which there are differences of
opinion among Civilians, and which it is un
nrceffary for me now to inveftig^te.
It is doubtleSj contrary to the inftrumons
of the French government, that any of the
fliips commissioned by them, a& in a hofcile
manner, in a friendly and allied terr itory. It
is to be expe&ed by one power from another,
that her cocts and her administration will
dojuftice to the rights of fovercignty and
neutrality- It will be the more to be la
mented if a friend and ally should disappoint
this expectation.—But ftionld this be the cafe,
it is not forme to lay what proceedings fb< u»d
be had. I have subjoined to this decree some
extra&s from the 44 Expflftio" oj the Motives,
&<r. from the Duke of New-Caftje, the i
tifji Mini Tver's Letter to Mr. Mitchell toe
Mmilter of Prussia, and from the report and
opinion of Sir George Lee, Do&or Paul, Sir
Dudley Rider, and Mr. Murray, tbe late
Lord Mansfield, on the fubje&s, I have men
tioned. which are to be fouud in
463, 482, 437, 49' < 496, t
Other authoiities trom Rritilh and other
writers might be added, by which it appears;
that when two powers have any d.ffeience
between thern, the affair mud be treated oy
negotiation, and not through the instrumenta
lity of their courts of justice.
That affairs of prizes are only pognizablc
in the courts of the power of making the cap
ture, these courts being genera!.y flyled
courts of admiralty ; and that it never was
attempted, before the fubjjeft of that contio
verfy happened, to erect in a neutial State,
courts for the trial of prizes taken by belli
gerent powers, even where neutrals were
concerned; and that of course 110 court of
one fovercign has a -ight to try the prizes
taken by the fliips public or private of ano
ther.
A difpirte of this nature ip which the King
of IVuflta could not prevail* though weak
at fen was powerful at lan<', and had a pio
ponfity for war, would illy fu't us. We nave
indeed, (hewn that we know how to war,
but it is now our interest and inclination to
cultivate the arts of .peace.
Much has been said on both fids*, to (new
the importance of this cause, and the necelL
ty of caution in its determination. I am
fufficie tly imp re fled with these considera
tions. Bat I feel niyfelf at ease in th;s view
of the fuKjecl. 1 am periurded, that an)
thing which affe&* the sovereignty and rights
of our country, will not be palled unnoticed
by those who have the power to regulate oui
national concerns. On my W account J
461
S m 70WV FENNQ, No. 34, NORTH FIFTH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
—
&rVe no difqu'etud? ; far no er/pr .of
. u'lFeJl the nation. There is an appaal*
froift any 'determination I may give, to afu
fcrinr tribunal. I am anxious for the peace
and dignity 01' my country ; but not deeming
my felt author ifea to judge in a matter grow
ing out of the conteft l ; between belligerent
powers, nor confide ring this court in this in
stance, the vindicatn?c of the rights of our
j nation, I leave in better hinds the difcufHon
! on the tlibje<st of national in Cult, and the re
medy foV any irjvafion of territorial rights.
Tlieinftance fide of. this coUrt seems to have
other ohje&s. And a prize court in activity
when a nation is at peace, app ears to
be a foleijifm in jurisprudence.
I DO THEREFORE DECiIEE, CRDE* AND AD
JUDGE, that the LIBEL in this cause be
DISMISSED, and that the SHIP therein men
tioned be DISCHARGED from the ARREST
the PLEA. IN THIS CASE BEING RELE
VANT.
(Signed'
FOR THE GAZETTE.
AT HIRD'objeftion to the proclamation is,
that it in inconsistent with the gratit jde
to France, for tlte services rendered us
fir our own revolu'ion.
Those who make this objection dil'.ivow at
tiK fa me time, all intention to advocate the
.position, that the United States ought to take
,<>art in the war. They profefs to be friends to
our remaining at peace. What then do they
mean by the objaflion ?
If it be no breach of gratitude to refrain
from joining France in the war—how can it
h? a breach of gratitude to declare that such
is onr dirpofition and intention !
The two portions are at variance with
each other ; and the true inference is, either
that those who make the objection really wifli
to engage this country in the war, or that they
Itek a pretext for cenfttring the conduct of
. the cl)ief inagiftrate, for some purpose very
different from the public good.
Tiiey endeavor in vain to elude this infer
ence by faying, that the proclamation places
France upon an equal footing with her ene
mies ; while our treaties require diftinftions
r»ybrcforrVti m>dMW. relative ftfuatian. would
dictate kind offices ro her, which ought not to
be srrtnted to ber adversaries.
They are not ignorant, that the proc!amation
-* reconcileable with both tho 'e oljefts, as
far a« tliey have any foundation in truth of
propriety.
It has been (hewn that the promise of a
" friendly and impartial contiad" towards 11
the belligerent powers is not inconfiflient with
tlie performance of any stipulations in our
tieaties, w.hich would not include our be*
coming an aipjeiate in the war ; and it has
b en observed, that the conduct of the exe
cutive, in regard to the feventeer.th and
twenty-second articles of the treaty of com
merce, is an unequivocal comment upon those
terms. The expreflions indeed were natu
rally to be underhood with the exception of
those matters of positive compatt, which
-wwttld not amount to taking part in the war ;
for a nation then observes a friendly and im
partial conduct, towards two contending pow
ers, when it only performs to one of thein
what it is obliged to do by the positive stipu
lations of' antecedent treaties ; those Itipu
larTons not amounting to a participation in
t be war.
Neither do those expreflions imply, that
United States will not exercise their dis
cretion, in doing kind offices to some of the
parties, without extending them to the others;
so long as thoJe offices have no relation to war : For
'kind ofnees of that description may, confid
ently with neutrality, be fhewti to one party
at>d refufed 10 another.
If the objectors, mean, that the United
States ought to favor France, in things relating
to war and where they are not bound to do it iy
treaty ; they must in this cafe also abandon
their pretetfton of being friends to peace.
For such a toriduft would be a violation of
neutrality, which could not fail to produce
war.
It follows theft that the proclamation is re
concile able with all that those who cenlure it
contend for ; taking them upon their own
ground—that nothing is to be done incom
patible with the preservation of peace.
gut though this would be a fufficient un
fair to tile undt-r coftfideratl«»i;
yirt it may not be without use to indulge fwne
reflklion's on this very favorite topic of gra
titude to France ; lince it is ar this shrine we
are continually iuvted to facrifice the true in
terefls of the country ; as if •' all for love and
the world welUoJl" were a fundamental maxim
in politics.
Faith and juft'ce between nations are vir
tues of a nature sacred and unequivocal—
They cannot be too ftrorgly inculcated, nor
tno highly refpefted. Their obligations are
cefinite and positive, their utility unqutT
tionabfe : they relate to objects, whicb with
probity and sincerity generally admit of be-
j n . A brought within clear and intelligible
rales.
and how far it can juftifiably l«e permitted t(>
operate is always a cjiieftion of ftitl greater
difficulty.
The basis of gratitude ij n benefit received ur
KrtfnM, which there was no right to claim,
nating in * regard to the intetej! or ackmtare of
tAe part\, on whom the benefit ij, oris meant ti> he
conferred. If a iepvice n rendered from views
relative to the immediate inn-reft of the par
ty, who renders it, and is pteduftive of -re
ciprocal advantages, there fefeins' fctiicciy in
such a cafe to be an adequate basis for a sen
timent like that of gratitude. The effect
would be difproportioned to the cause, if such
a service oui'Jit to beget more than a diipofi
tion to render in turn a correspondent good
office, founded on mutual interest »o<3 reci/irocil
advantage. But gratitude, would require
more than this j it would require to a cer
tain extent, even a Sacrifice of the inteteft
RICHARD PETERS-
[Whole No. 43 B.]
# . I . y
Bat t!j« ("am; c»nw»t be ft d of
tt u nut very often, natiofts, that ic
can be pronounced with certainty, that tlipic
a fqlid famiilation fortfre-
of t!i* party obliged, to tlx? service or benefit
of the party by whom the obligation Had been
conferred
Between Individuals, occasion i> not no-
frequently given to tlwexereife of gmtifnAfl
-0 ((inferring (Mnrfits« from tetni
iW<#wiiTeval«nt orV*»imJ*tuwnWj
■ fhtf person benefitted, without »ny otl*r iu
tereft on the part of the pertVn who e«*vf*r»
the benefit, than the pleafureof diairtifa grfod
action, occur every day among intfiVUfudls.
But among nations they perhaps never necur.
It may be affirmed as a general principle,
that the predorninanf motive of good offjrej
frtjnt one natipn to another is the interest or
. advantage of. the nation, which performs
them.
. Indeed the rule of morality is in this refppft
not cxattly the fame, between nations as {be
tween individuals. The duty of making its
own welfare the guide of its actions is much
stronger upon the fofmer than upon the la'*
ter ; in proportion to the greater magnitude
and importance of national compared with
individual happinefi, to the greater perma
nency of the effc&s of national than of indi
vidual conduct. Ex»ft'*ng millions, and for
fcbe mod part future generations arc cim--
cerned in the present measures of a govern
ment -while the contquence-; of the pri
vate ast ions of an individual, for the rrioflfc
part, terminate with himfelf, or are cfrcum
fcribed within a narrow compass.
Whence* it follows, that an individual may
on numerous occafious meritoriouily mdojs*
the emotions of" generosity and bene;Votan?e,
not oiily without an.eye to, but even at the
expense of his own inreiefl. But a govern
ment can rarely, if at all, be juftifiaMe.irt
pursuing a similar courfc ; and if it dois-OS
ought to confine itlelf within much .ftrifler
bounds.* Good offices which are indif¥k> ent
to the interest of a nation performing them,
or which are compensated by the existence or
expectation of some reasonable equivalent*—
or which produce an effVntial good to the na
tion to which they are rendered, without real
detriment to the affairs of the nation render
ing them, prescribe the limits of national ge
nerosity or benevolence.
It is not meant here to advocate a policy
abfoiutely felfifli or interested in nations ; tyot
tofliew, that a policy regulated by their own
interest as far as justice and good faith per
mit, is, and ought to be their prevailing one ;
and that either to ajfcribe to them a different
print'pie of aftipn, or to deduce from tb*
fuppofitionof it arguments for a (elf-denying
and feif-facrificing gratitude on the part of *
nation, which may have received from ano
ther good offices, is to misconceive or mistake
what usually are and ought t" be the fptings
of national conduit.
Theft general reflexions will be auxiliary
to a just estimate of our real (ituation with
regard to France ; of which a clofcr view
will be taken in a succeeding paper.
PACIFICUS.
* This conclafion derives ctinfirmalin fttm Hit
rtfitSim, that ¥*i<r every jtrm tj gtMnrent,
Kiriiiti*rt inly T*u»t*m for tit
and irttrrfi ef litir lutim, i emmet, cenjtJUtily
with their trufi, fellow tit fufgtfrtns *f
w lovvrdi ttkerj, letif pttjtdtcttf thihr
unfiitaent.
Our ieadcr> aic requeltcd to correfi the
following errors, which occurred in the (croud
number of Pac'Jicus, publifticd Uft Wednesday,
viz. First column, *d paragraf}!, line, for
*♦ incompatible," read comfatihte —3d column,
50th line from top, for ** November," read
December.-~Thofe Printers tchi have rc-bublijkcd
Pacificus, arc desired tc pjblijh the above cor
rections.
From the North-Carolina Journal
THE CttURCH. ■
ON Ff iday l«ft w« rtifrd in thii town the
friime a (Jnrch. —7 —TW tow* pt Hl.l*-
W»i incofpornea i« May, 1759, »nd !hcfi>ft
bnufe of public warftip"U after gf
yttrt. The lain lubfciAed, we are inlormrfl,
4mount to about io jt, M fttU
ppco t<> ihl* mJifmfyiJlilMhii.
• \
-. ■>
rV:
fcr tnt CAzrrrt.
V
I
MK. FiMf>o,
1 r »» d to the public spirited c
i ut n$ to Htabtfk a Robinhood debarn; So
cetj— potnU of legsflatiofj cow.d t-.c
icit'.td cheaply at a tivt iYi-i-Doub r s could be un
f2 veiled, and the threads of fnphifcry iwfifrrled.
wine would.produce genejoua toalta,
ard banish the fordid fpliuof calumny and de
traction. Ihe oiators, after having ventilaied
ihdr iunjpby dilcimging ihe fpflammable air
in fpeechtt agaiuft the abuses of our vile go
vtri.rncm, the gambling money fchcmes, ihe
bank, fpcculaiions, courtly corruption* and pan
ccinoouli aboruiuauons of ihe crew in office,
rouid fit down to reft tVir weary aod d.fgufUd
virtue * ilh a «übt/ tat luhift. This debating fo
<ietv would th«i» piomoie the cause ol republi
can purity and frnipWciiy ot mariners, and bind
the true brotherhood more closely together. It
would aid lwe eloquence and make it dreadful
to an milters, by d.fllitog it frequently tor the
combat—The fym phonies of Btdlain, the fern
dou* screams, the eat-ptercing yells could be
nicely prattif d over bclprchand, like the re
hear sal of **f*ge.d)W&ut m these exhibitions a
yuan really ball crack-brained would out do any
nimic. By intrc*duciug whijl after the debater
of <he Society,# tawne amusement would be
fiu wiih severe duty, that the dcciaimers
agjuili gambling and fptculation might thip>. v if
the card*.*ere favorable, pick their wages out
*£ i'mcir wot k. It is no small advantage (or any
fcherrc t<* pay its vray r and execute ulcM a* ihia
docs. Tbcre is no need of fines to compel at
tendance. TKe reformers would throng to the
taretiflo>< eTpec'aUy towards the close of the de
bate*. °Thrfe are ihe chief recommendations of
tfie fchcrre. In time there may be ft ill greater
Advantages derived from it. Congress has been
a diligent fir ait going body iu times past, wh re
all wts brotherly love and harmony. No time
was loft -.n attempts to embarrass necrifary mca.
fur es—ignorance never prated there, and malice
wever boiled ovet—Bur if it fbould hy?p n here
after <hat a knot of ten or a dozen faitlious am
bitious men, not caring a straw for <he uitertft,
honor, or peace of the nation, but rtg.ng against
two «r three public officer®— (Hott'.d embariafs
every thing but do nothing themfclves—fhould
ftari enquiries to make the people fufpiciousaud
angry without any grounds, and then take spe
cial care to prevent ihcir coming to any decision
— fbould bawl for information which they have
already got, and flop all the common toufinefs
of the treafuiy to fend them volume# of copies
of documents, to prove what every one well
knew before—fo that a whole fcflion of Con
gress should be wafted, and the great buftnefs of
enafling a plan to fink the public debt should be
portioned.—Surely if this ftiouW ev ; r be the
misfortune df this country, it would be wife by
way of prevention, now to establish a separate
society, where all this mock business could be
tranfa&ed— Sham motions could there be made
more cheaply for the public, and with less rifle
of ihegmeral peace and harmony than in the
House of ReprtCcntatives—For this sluice would
let off the meant fl and moll maliguant pamons
of the human heart, and the fa&ion having thus
diftharged iheir gail, could appear decent in a
public affirm foty. Ii would be a kind of wane
gate to carryiiie fiothy torrent harmlelsly away,
without endangering the mill-dam.
Philactelphians, good men and Ii ue, you are so
happy as to read and hear the orach s of wisdom
deliveredYy the haters of the constitution, the
minister and fu. ding system— the word-mer
chants who fhuffle and cut in your city, the hux
ters and hawkcis of cant phrases about ariftocra
ty and corruption io the administration, and
who kecDa (hop to distribute grievances to the
people, rtiew that your city if worthy of its rank
as the metropolis, and do some good to your
country by letting up and supporting such a fo
cierjf, which hot-after in degenerate times may
favc our money and our union. For if it should
happen that our pure-virtue should run low in
spue of all that ojr gamblers and the ambitious
bawiers. who cry, do something for the
people, (meaning th mfelves) can do to keep
the ftoc-k good—The Congress house would cer
tainly iank below the dignity of a bear garden.
Half a dozen men who would flick at nothing
after the death of virtue, would kjeep the coun
try in a flamt —They would circulate any story
no nut er how fAfe— declare that the edmini
ftration is corrupt, and such as would " disgrace
pandemonium''—and yet fit down fatisfied with
big words, without proving who is corrupt, the
afl of conuption, ond the circumstances which ;
would turn the officer out and bring him to
punishment—Since eloquence disdains fa6fs,like
her filler poetry* the would be tame if she was
acearatc—and tike her (iflcr, she is the moil
sublime wvten fbe is ?he mad 'eft. To proceed
. with the terrible Change that Congress may un
dergo. It may happen hereafter, that enquiries
wili be begun and kept up as long as jraloufy
and rcfentmeut can be kept alive by means of
them. Paper, may be called for to make ihe
people believe theie is a great mystery in these
affjui*, and a cheat of five millions found out.
This half-dozen party leaders would pretend
that they have a great deal of merit becnufe they
do all in their power to blacken ihe fame of the
jiift and able fervanti of the people, and when
the calumny should be refuted, and their base
arts and ignorance confounded by a complete
account oi all the ttanfa&ions of the adminiftra-
t&e'y wiil not be ashamed to fay, all we had
in view was tiulh and the good of the people,
who ought io be made acquainted with the true
due of i4»ci# «— U.. u ♦
Human affi-tiis are liable to many changes—it
isibe prrt of prurience to guard against luch e
vents bcfo.re ihey happen. Oihciwifethe most
profligate unprincipled fafhon inay teai the
peace and quief.ot this countiy 10 rags. No.
thing is so promising a prcfervative as a debat
ing THoV who make speeches, rot
Jaws, who do all thev can to prevent Hieir being
made, and who fpeaX not lothc House but to
thi* could not objcfl to performing all
this in the dub or focieiy. It is no objection
that the club would hare no legiflitiveautboruy
to fin: Hi bufinefs—fqr that would exactly fait
tbofe whose labor it is to hinder it« being done.
Tbey wouM enjoy every other advantage. The
debates of :he focieiy could be publilhed, and
the work of defaming the offitcis of govern
ment, and o! kindling jealosies, fufpiciuni and
d«-«3ty r<rti4*in >he community, nrrd not stand
Aill • RitniMr, Bcfidii, th* rnto wh" w.tchfor
ii>cp<opWm rreorrr the willi-'O*- wHich I ff
imi|n»(hi« bemWched o«i«f thefl'vj lx<*»
would naiut.Hy »fv"*r» fctenMs wht* 1 tntt
totfu mifcblrf-m»ker» the firtf nf» «f- their *4-
vtnuge*. »iid >o ihr pu Wic the fut. d»ll»««
i ilftyln iddiuoo to »H ibis msft V Bepcnti
to be derivtd from ihc we hat>e » tttjijiig
ettiibple to our b»adi of the advantage* arm rip
to the people fi«D etabi W govern th«£o?ertet«
of a coMMr ft . . - ■ -
FOR THE GAZETTE.
ELKANAH to JONATHAN.
[se* A'al. Gaz. June tjl.]
Oh, Jonathan ! and art thou grown
So wor.d'ious fond of place,
That not content with one alone,
Thou fain would'ft have a brace.
Interpreter of unknown tongues
Thou long haft know* it—
fn verse too would'ft thou fl r ain thy h»trg«
With lie* ?oh «n»feM» Fbct-! * )
To many a lie in humble profc
Thy voice is won* to fweir;
And once, to shame thy pat ion'* foes,
Did'ft lie before the May'r.
Thy pittance for that lie wai fmal!,
Thv b'owels yearn for more ;
And M ! to- great folks, one and all,
ThOu offcrtft thy stare.
And yet the gif itfollti to thyproffer,
I tti nk will nor be warm,
Bmufr (hey ffMom t»kr»n offer
Which can bat do rhera haim.
Yes, friend 1 iho' hurijty W thy 4i*,'
Tliy fuU will be reje&ed;
For who would heed hit fir» « ftriwy
heifituW* ■. ' a
■ - ■ eUt'ANAH,
FUR rut GAZE ME.
Q. C'.'l. F.
WITH every'righttous government »t odds,
I swear by all the goddess; s and godt,
Thai whercfoever laws and justice fend me, {"
A restless disposition thall attend me.
The foil that gave me bnth X found too hot,
And many a legal threlhing there I got.
My mind a ftorro, 1 nevei could be quiet —
My only fuftcnanie was mobs and riot —
Until a pack, with wigs and gowns.and bands,
And arms so long, none could escape their hands,
To check the boiling of my patriot fury,
Condemned ine by that bane of rouues, a jury ;
But thank kind fortune, I efcap'd a jail,
And gave them tor fecurity—l-g-baih
Free from their cursed to this blest (bore,
A friendly bark my precious carcase bore.
But here, alas, I'find it to my cost,
That all my virtuous deeds are labor loft ;
The people fiee, and happv, and well fed.
Can't be peifuadcd that they have no bread.
Or, that for plundeiing there exists a caufc,
So long as truth and jullice prop the laws.
And tho' th' indubious live in p aceand e»(c,
SomeJclks I find can't do just as they please i
Courts, judges, Juries, Lawyers,and such things,
Contrtv'd (or logues, are here, altho' no king*
This will not do—the Devil whom I f.-ive,
Knows, if the times are tranquil I mutt ftai vr»
My plan itthorefoie laid—when more at leifute,
I'll tell you what success attends each measure.
Foreign Intelligence.
LISLE, April J. ' ' ;
Yesterday, fix cowardly <je-'
i'erters had the honor of be
ing ihaved close to theihoulders, in:
thejiew machine, by order of Gen.
Feuaud. !
BERLIN, March j-
A few days since, several French
deserters presented rheinfelves to
the Duke Frederick ef Brunfwick,
who received them kindly, gave
them a few crowju, and ordered
them to a particular station to try
them. They had hardly begun to
do their duty but they tried to ex
cite the Prulfian soldiers to desert.
They weie immediately coiuluded
to to ihe fortrefs of Wefel. It was
observed ihat these loldiers still pre
served the fin of liberty, for they
addreiled the Duke of Brimfwick
with "my General"—which allo
nifhed German ears accustomed.to
the titles of Highness and my Lord.
PARIS, April 8.
Sitting of thp. Jacobins.
Jpril 6.
It was propol'ed to fend a deputa
tion from (lie Club to accompany
the CommiHioners of the Ooiiveiui
on into all the departments, tudif
feminate the " holy morality of the
Jacobins." This ineafure was op
posed by all the leading nietn&MS ;
•for two excellent icafons, jftr te
caufe the "fraternal debt" of the
Club was, already so great, that tbey
could not bear any new expences ;
and 2dly. that their deputies would
ccriainly be maflacred, for the Ja
cobins were held in thegreateft ab
horrence through all the depart
ments. That they were regarded
by the whole nation (the Sans Cu
lottes of Paris excepted) as a band
of aflaflins, who with Marat at their
head, were wantonly fpiliing tke
blond of the purest patriots. Thel'e
aflertious were proved by letters
462
■ from a ll repnoije.—iwa
i at faul.ciie had decc.ve.l
' ih. ■»«»«». ,f tfc *^ ei,ch '
had withdrawn th C|r confidence
from the Jacobins they were ail
lO ~jW-B.— A deputation of the fee
tiotrof Boncor.feuil.read an addrels,
which t'.iev were going to prelent
to the Convention. The following
is an extract: " Legislators, An in
fernal faction influences the Con
veution—a gang of villains are plut-.
lingand executing a countei-revo
i lutiun. We demand in the name ot
the law, in the name of the people,
that the Guadcts, the Vergnianx,
the Briliote, the Buzots, the Barba
rous, the Pctions be driven from a
inong yon.. Mountain of Sinai! on
thee the Mod High reposes himfelf;
in thee alone is founded our hope;
then wilt thou deliver ns from our
enemies; but how long wilt thou
fuffer those Catalines in thy bolom ?
Ministers of an avenging God ! de
liver to the justice of the people his
unfaithful mandatories !—And thou
people !__ rife and cruth the traitors
who are in this aflembly." (Long
8c loud applause.) " Yes my friends
and brothers, continued the orator,
the people nittft help ns again to
cleanse the dung hill of ariltocra
cy."
Albitte.—l applaud with all my
heart the patrioiifmuf those citt
lens ; but while Uriving to serve us,
rbey will enibarrafs us; it is not iut
ficient to deihaifd the punifliment ot
traitors; we mult know them be
fore we can judge them. —At thele
Words, the tribunes, and all the Ja
cobins rose in a fury, crying.—' We
know thein ail, and will kill them
all.'-—After much confufion in the
Club, Albitte recommences with his
lall sentence ; but was ftopt again
by loud murmurs. The Vice-Pi eli
dent begs them to hear Albitte with
moderation, and then refute him.
—What ! cries a hot patriot, foam
ing with rage, hear a moderate with
moderation ! Albitte continues, lam
not a moderate, 1 fublcribe to every
thing you propose. it is true there
are traitors in the Convention, hut
our denunciations ought not to con
demn them ; they mult be judged
by the law. For my own part I will
noc condemn Briflot and the relt on
a mere suspicion. He was again in
terrupted by a cry of " down with
t he moderate."—Ho rose once more,
and laid if he was wrong, it was by
excels of zeai ; promised to conform
to the decisions of the Club ; was
wow convinced theaddrefs was good,
and deelared he would fiipport it.
This repentance was now too late ;
a general hiss proved to him, that
to ait from reason was an unpar
donable crime among the Jacobins.
Dellieux supported the petition
with all his might. He pretended
to prove that Petion, Briliot, &c.
were the agents of Dumourier, and
that they, with the other modera
tes, wanted to facrifice the virtu
ous Egalite because his foil Was a
traitor.
St. Ju(l Paid, 1792, 1 told you there
was but one man that ftopt our pro
gress, his head is fallen. We had.
better Iwim to liberty through oce
ans of aristocratic blood, than to
fee a single patriot receive a scratch.
Albitte talks of forms and laws—as
if any were to be observed in such
a crisis. We mult have blood, the
country is in danger; Dutnourier
is gone but his fatallites are among
us; they mult be delivered up to
the revolutionary tribunal, and to
the National Razor. (applauded
with transport.)
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
March it.
M. Garuier.— Citizens ! one of the
greatelt Counter-Kevolutioniits of
St. Domingo, M. Blanc litrlantle, it
arrived in Paris a prisoner—he is
charged with the blackeit crimes—
he lias made it a pratftice to vex and
perlecute the patriots; he caused
one of thsin named Borcco to he
seized, and was ferocious enough to
cause his satellites to col him to pie
ces before his face. He has been
known to go about, with his sword
drawn, and with his own hand to
inallacre infants at the bieafts of
their mothers. I demand that M.
Blanchelande be arraigned before
the revolutionary tribunal,"
jure '
'By the Bug lndo&ry, Cam. I'ratk,
A -tp*d*A at tlfii.poi t,on Wedntfd<y lad
'* from BtlftrS, hound to Bolton, we
Wvet favivyed with a Bristol paper of
May 9, from which we have extradol
part of,the following .
Late European Intelligence,.
VIENNA, (Germany,) Apiilao.
H ER Impel ial Majcfty was yeftcrday
delivered of a Prince, who wasthi,
day bapfized l>v the naioe» of FERDI
MANI>, CHARLES," LEOPOLD*
JOSEPH, FRANCIS, MARCEL-.
' LIN. I His Sicilian Mnjtr fly, repi- (eatrd
by hia Ambaffidor the Marquis of Gallo,
was the sole sponsor. Afier the ceremo
ny there was a coort, when the Nobility
and Foreign Minifteis had the honour to
pay their rrfpe&s to the Emperor, and to
congratulate his Imperial Majrtty on ths
birth of an heir.
PARIS, April 9.
AT four in the afternoon of ycfterday
the following Bulletin was cfcfiVerea ia
the convention :
" Ye Herd ay morning Philip Egalite
was conveyed to the prison la Concierge
rie, where he occupies the appartment
which was once destined for the too cele
brated Cardinal dc Roban. It is said, tint
on entering this apartment, Egalite fan
cied he perceived some partiality, Tome
paiticularattemion towards himtslf whifili
might hurt the feelings of his fellow pvi
foncrs ; and that he in corifequence de
manded for Citizen Egalite, the apart
ment ala Pifto'.e ; It will do doubt be
granted him to-morrow.
" By the apartment a la Pistole is
meant a particular room for which tea
livres are paid at entrance. The furoi
ture of this room consists of a table plac
ed before a-window, fccuredby iron bars,
a chair of walnut wood, and a bed fur
nilhed with a bundle of straw, and o»cr
that a mattrafs of the thickness of a pan
cake that has not swelled in frying! At
one of the fides of the apartment a la Pis
tole arc two beams, the fupcrior fnrface
of which is ufualiy (lored with moifclsof
black tripuldy bread, left there by male,
factors condemned to the gtlleys, the
gallows, or the wheel. The apaitment
a la Pistole looks into a superb fqnare, iii
the midst of which riles a magnificent
poll that has appended to it a coHar of
superlative beauty. [By the.dtfcription
thfs would appear to be a kind of pillory]
This collar is uot like that of the cardinal
de Rohan, enriched with the spoils of
Golconda and Vifapour ; but in the eyes
of Egalite poffeffea a pre-eminent merit j
that of being fitted to all, of being alike
calculated to adorn the neck of the de
scendant of St. Louis, and the son of a
coachman
NATIONAL CONVENTION,
APKII. 24.
A body of Citizens, petitioners, appea yd
before the AiTembly—they announced that
Marat had been acquitted by the Triiur.al fx.
traordinan, and they begged per;niff t on to de
file through the Assembly, to (hew to the Re
presentatives of the people tktirjty to fr.'i Ma
rut inrccrvt ' __3Li
Pertvrflinn being granted, they entered
without arm 4, in great number*, of both
fexe% and as many as couM took potleifcoa o
the unoccupied feats, the Tribunes and Citi
zens crying loudly, " Long live the Repute
—Long live the Nation —Long live Marat.
At the head of the Citizens were the Gen
darmes, and the Municipal Officers.
At length Marat arrived, and proceeded to
take his feat ; he had on his head a crown
which he took off; he \vas embrace
by all the Citizens, Women, and Deputies;
after which he mounted tie Tribuue, an
made the following speech :
4< Citizens, ,
•< You fee a Representative of the pcop.e
whose rights have lieeen violated, but jut> te
has been done him. I (wear a-new ro efpou '
the caiife of Equality, L bertjfj and "> tfte
Paople."'
He was loudly applauded. _
The Ci'ti irtit, or minotity of the AwWOlyi
had entixel)' left the tiall.
LONDON, May 9. -
ExtraSl of a Utter from Paris, April it
" Letters from Lyons announce ; hdt c,, y .
be in a most dreadful state ps confulion, an
those from H-itanv contain )ntclligf° cc f£ l Ul ''
difag«eeablc. The 6a parifties encamps ? l
rimieres have, in answer to the third prooaw
tion of the Commissioners of the onve ?7° r!
publifhcd a dectaration, in which the) 21 re
themfclves to the Commifljoneis io the nam e
the true and only God whont the lattei h& v£ a 'J u
in this pjete ihty let fouh their Hun e,, " n ,
on Providencer in confequcnce of the juUnc .
ihctr caufc ; ,£T pro bate the' dcfiglfc and
$hem and then conititucnrs ; a«»d <ieip*
will ilpvt-r, wiulft they breaiiic K fobaUt to 1
laws, or feck p.rotc&ton fioru them.-Getters), - ■- - !e
in the en-.
,< j'lie French army fe*ing that
thev would be attacked, and not
wifbing to have the disadvantage of
being on the defenine in which
they neverjucceed, made difpofit.-
on » this day for a grand attack. The
battle was general and bloody, and
,he defeat of the enemy was com
nlete All their forces were in
£&*. *** ° f «><-■
They marched againlt our centre,
pafftd Saint Saove, and advanced
Fn Filb o". Our advanced posts not
T*Tng~al)le to rffitt a whole army,
' retired. They were, however, rein
forced, and the French artilleiy
kept up a heavy site upoD iheiji.—
Our centre, which had maintained
j ts nrmurid till ten, being overpow
ered' by numbers, gave way, and for
half an hour fell back ; but thelcfc
wino- did wonders, it attacked the
ligiu wing of ,the French in flank,
and pierced. The battle was soon
renewed In the centre, & the trench
were driven beyond their camp.—
The defeat was fi> coinpleat, that
part of the enemy threw themselves
iiito Valenciennes. The carnage
was very great. The regiment of
Barco, above all, displayed extraor
dinary and invincible bravery, and
avenged the barbarity with which
the French had torn out the eyes of
one of their comrades, who had fal
len into their hands. We have ta
ken from the enemy, i; pieces of
cannon, 22 caiflons filled with am
munition, and the horses which
drew them. The loss of ihe enemy
inurt have been considerable : Ours
does not amount to 200 men, but ;
of our officers are dangeroufl
wounded.
" 'I hat on the 3d or 4111 inft. at
fartbell, Conde was to be besieged
in regular form ; and that a report
had reached Bruflels on the 3d, that
tlje army commanded by the Duke
of had beaten the French, who
were ported to defend the western
part ©f Flanders ; but that 110 con
firmation of this intelligence had
beeii received at the time the letters
weve cl.o fed v"
L.e(ten> front Poland- that ZOO,
ooo' loads of wheat have been Hopped at
: DanUick, which the Poles were going to
fend to France. The prize is ellimated
5: 50 millions of polifn currency. It is
to be sent to the combined armies.
The Pope has raised a new levy of
6000 men.
By the death of another Catdinal, the
College of Rsme has now seven hats to
dispose of.
The Bmifti cavalry that embarked at
Black wall lalt week, have fairly ariived at
Otjknd.
Monday evening Vice-Admiral Lord
Hood arrived at Portfwourh, and imme
diately hoiited his Flafj on board the Vic
tory, of ICO guns, at Spithead.
The number of fliips of"the line
in commiffiori at this time, is 6 J,
being nearly one half of the whole
"* it B. iiuin, of that de-
feript-ioii.
ExtruEl of a letter from Douay ,df>ril 3.
" I'he (. jinmiuioneis of the Con
vention, vitfiim* of ihe perfidy of
Duuuuuier, were introduced to the
Prince de Cobourg by ihe traitor
himfelf—he took Camus by the but
ton of his coat, and led him into the
room—" Will your highness (said
he) permit me tci introduce to you
M. Lainus—he is the biefident of
the committee of pensions, of finatv
ces, of liquidation, in a word, the
prelident of all pofTible cominit
tees" "Ah ! is this M. Camus
(said the Prince) indeed M. Cam us,
1 am overjoyed to lee you, pray M.
Cainus Ihow me your citizen's di
ploma, M. Camus ! really think that
a queue behind and a little powder
yoat: hni», mould fa-it the air of
your lace wonderfully well." " 111
this trifling and indecent manner
were the commiilioners treated by a
petit niairre German prince."
MUSIC NfIUVEIIE
At Leeds ( Yorklbire, Eng. ) are
two young Ladies, much celebrated
for a superior talent they poflefs of
whittling ; while the one performs
ihe firfl, (he lifter accompanies with
a leconda. The inuftc, for melody
and lofti.efs, perhaps is inferior to
none; its novelty is no fin all por
tion of the pleaftn e.
XTHG'STON (J.nnir.i) J une 7.
Tb£ new j.»o^L*roo[" of'l
is already at'war wit h the civij com-
HiiHarics. M. Sai.thouax bos <ie
polire'd tlie money, <Jlnained fro.n
tlie inhabitants of Port-au'rt ince,
on board the America. '1 he naval
commander in chief, at the requiii
tioitof the govei tior, has ordered
the {hip round ip the Cape. The
commiflary, who is much attached
lo the treasure, ijajs, he flutil not
Itir" and thus is the point at ilTue
between them.
The whole naval force of the
French at St. Doming", provided!
there has been no recent acce'ffion"j
from Europe, is three eighty g"n":
(hips, seven frigates, three or
armed brigs, and a corvette.
Philadelphia, July io.
The Biltirroro Even ng Pbft 6 h inft,
contains the following account —The tcboofirf
Cftijcn Genet, aher taking the brig Lovely; Lafsj
had a fever* engagement withthfSb'p Truft'y,
mounting 8 nine pounderi, and the fcng Co r'n
walli# mounting 6 eight pounders, on the 4th
inft. about 15 miles 'roin the Capes of Virginia.
-—The schooner Genet a'id brig
were engaged ahont an hour, when the latter
(truck.—The (hip Truily alio fought the Genei,«
upwards ot three hours, but the ammunition:
chest having jaken fire and blown up, by whu;b
fix of the crew were dreadfully , wounded, on
board the Genet, flie had to bear away for
Ch- /apeak, being rendered touUy incapable (by
the above melancholy acc'defii) «i feeurmg the
brig or commune; an a£t»on wh!\
the ft-ip fiuftv, both of -whom crowded all tnc
fails they hdd left, and ilood to the S. S. F..
Capt. Oakvinthr Ihip Foitiiude, arrived at
Boston on the ad inft. in 51 days fiom Oftend.
By him we that ibe Ficnch, at Paris and
in the country, were in high spirits ; appear: d
determined to defend their country to the Jaft
extremity; and tb?»f there was not the ajjoeai
auceof want in the Republic That thA#V weie
teport of a battle, in which the Auftfia"» anil
Rricifh were defeated,with the loss OM2OO men :
That a body of 100J Bntifti marched
fiom Oftend ,to join the combined forc.es, the
riiy bMore be failed : —That a body of Engfifli
U..(l forces had arrived, and more were cxpeS
ed— The officers nt tlicle arrived, expelled, iht-jr
fain, the Frenflh would Sp.ht wnn more Rim
nets thJti in any farmer wai» : —Flint ail caiTT
munication with Fiance was cut rffat the time
of his failing : And thaf on his psfT.ige he fpolte
the French frigate Bsyomie, ol 36 gnus, tb-t
eight days befoir h.d fought a frigate of fupetmr.
lorcc, and had loft the Captain and 40 men.
Arrived atßoftan, Capt. Trafk,fiom Bri(-
tal—on the 6th da; of his voyage fpolce the
Fmik.li »riva««r l/EJpe rarer, which Itnd
taken two valuable prizes—the Britifli Brig,
Industry, Capt. Gant, ft om London, for |>Jn
ladelphia—and one of the Quebec fleet.
Monday there was a very nume
rous meeting of the merchants and
traders of this city, at the Coffee-
Houle, to take into con fideraiion
certain nieafures which appear to
be pursuing, tending to a breach of
the neutrality of this country, and
contravening the proclamation of
the Prefidem of the United States.
In difcufling the fubjeft, such evi
dence was adduced as amounted to
proof, that the brig lately called
the Little Sarah, had been armed in
this port, and was probably bound
011 a cruise againlt the powers now
ac war with Krapce—Whereupon a
large and refpet&able committee
was appointed to wait on the Go*
vernor of the State, and the heads
of departments in the general go
vernment, to make enquiry into the
business, and to afceriain what niea
fures had been adopted to check a
procedure so alarming to t he intei eft
and honor of the United States.
We are informed that theGover
norgave the committee the strongest
allurances of his having done, and
that he fliould continue to do, every
thing in his power to secure a ftriet
adherence to the neutrality pro
claimed by the President of the
United States.
Spirited meafuresare pursuing to
place the Fortifications in the river
in such a fiiuation, as that the sove
reignty of the United States (liail
not be inlulted with impnniiy bj
any foreign power, nor our neutra
lity violated by any of our owii ci
tizens. .
It is said that the French men of
war after convoying
the fleet from Cape Francois into
the Chefapcak a'nd Delaware bays,
will bear away for Boston.
The brig Little' Democrat, for
merly Little Sarah, of 12 g"" s t be
longing to the Republic of Franee,
failed from this port on Sunday la ft.
She is commanded by Capt. Atniut
Died, C'M7ni TowKi,forleve
r<l y:wi i Printer 111 IAiS city.
463
Jftc3bi:<rfrbm'Cibe- Ft.inintj b\ Jcne\ A ij
( Jd.tytter jLtijiie, juntas, o»: Here on it,c 2 *tk
• " • ' ••>'- ■ • • - 1 -'
On the I.7th and J tin* fever*! d f
I itu: barce* hid n1 i '.C n between the whites, ai-d
[ Tiitilattoe.s—on thole days and on the 19»h rhe
( mulattcfe? paraded the Itreets in armed bt.dics
and inlultcd the whites, leveral of whom they
wounded with sabres and piitols- The whites
applied to the Coimnillioners Sonthonax and
Polverel for redre(is, but in vain. On the 19th
an niEcer belonging to the fleetwas wounded ;
tfie corrniodore applied to the commiilionei r,
■who appeared in every instance to tavor the
mulattoes. The admirals of the fleet, npon
finding the want offuccels ofthe commodore's
application, called on the cominiflioners them
i ft jjes, but without obtaining farjsiaftiisn.
I, -'t tjje 20th they drew up with
■* . rbi oadlides to the town, and springs on
«* -.'ir cables; the red flag was hoilied on
hoard the admiral's fljip, and a lignalgiin fir
ed,, upon which the captains of all the fliips of
war repaired on board the Admiral's. In
CHifequerjee of the plan laid in that ,council (
»t 3 o'clock boats from the leveral vessels
were manned, and at four about 2000 men
wejj-e lamjed from the fleet at the Cape, com
ma/ided b; Gen. Galbaud—Tliefe immediate
ly proceeded to the Arsenal, the cannon tit
wh th they diftributccl throughout the cit}»
and pointed up each of the principal streets.
They ne*t proceeded to the government
npiile (where the mulattoes had collected) to
Jem and from the commiflioners fatisfaftion.
The mulattoes fired on them, the fire was re
turned, and kept up till darkj with great
warmth.
Before the preparations for landing, the
•"merchant Hupping was ordered out of the
way of injuty. At dark, after the firing ha/I
peafed a drum was heard,the ufu«l |>r<rl.w»ina
w tS publifliing proclamations, and it was re
ported that the coinmiflioners Tiad publiflied
and freedom to tile revolted nogroes
Quring the conflict, rhe prisons containing a
. iut 453 ofthe revoked brigands, wercopen
rd, Sad they armed to reinforce the tnulattoes.
On the 21 ft,-fame cannon Hint were ex.
changed between the two parts of the town
occupied by the whites and the mulattues, and
several houses set on tire by the latter. On
the 22d the conflagration increased, and on
the ijd the whole towil of the Cape was 011
fire..
From the place whore the mercbat shipping
lay, the road from the country to the Cape
is plainly seen. Along it negroes from the
country were continually travelling on the
22d;artd23d; supposed to be carting in, 111
coftfecjuence of tiie proclamation, to reinforce
the commissioner's party.
On the 24th, all the (hipping that could pof
fiblv put to lea, American as well as the
! Frenchfleet of merchantmen bound toFrance,
1 left the'Cnpe under the convoy of she fh'ps of
war for this place. Many of tfiefe vetTels
were in want of almost every thing for even
»fh»n voyage, it was therefore impoflib'e for
nSercTiantmerr to attempt to i«Bch
their defined European ports.
The eomniiffioners, prior to these dillurb
ances, had ordered Gen. Galbaud, but lately
arrived from France as comna::d;r in chief
of the ifiaiid, back to France, for having acted
iir fofnß refpetts,' as they conceived, improper
ly, while they (the coinmiffioners) were at
Port-au-Prince.
The naval force at the Cape, Capt. Jones
Hates at three 74's, besides some vefTels of
lelTer force. The fleet of merclianlir.en, in
all, upwards of too fad.
Capt. Jones further informs, that the offi
cers belonging to the Britilh sloop <A war,
Hyjfcn i, a prize taken into Cape-Francois, l>y
the French men of war, were preferred by
the greatest exertions. Beingcondu&ed .down
to the American wharf, by some of the ne
groes who spoke English, they immediately
leaped off and were taken up by the American
boats, and conveyed on board the French ships.
Capt.' Jones saw a number of the inhabitants
of the Cape prcferved in the fame manner.
The brigs Active, Waters ; Hope, Poo! ;
fchoor-er Jjiio, Tanner, and two fchncners
belonging to Baltimore, left the Cape with
Capt. Jonesr-ali the other vefiels that were
there went to leeward.
Capt. Jon.-s made very particular enquiry
for the fafety of the Americans, arid is happy
to inform, that -all escaped, except Meifts.
Not and Miller, of Charleston, South-Carolina,
who were miffing.
It is Paid that the 3ritilh prisoners at the
Cape, amongst whom were the officers, ma
rines, and.seamen belonging to the privateer
Hyiena, (capturcd only a saw days before the
melancholy event took place) put themlelves
under the command of a Britilh officer, and
fought bravely by the fide of the French fol
dicry and sailors wider Gen. Galbaud, against
the "commissioners, mulattoes and negroes.
IfGalband, had ftoorl out J minutes longer,
it is thought he must have gained a viflorv ;
he, however, withdrew the troops avd went
on board the French ships of war, after fight,
ing three days, and with him took the Britilh
officers, &c. who had so courageonlly assisted
Til&i
?' A t tJw fame time that Gov. Gulten*! quitted
the liene of ai-'tion, it isfaid the cotftmiflion
ers S.nthonax and Polvoref. alio fled wth
the foldierv under tieit command into the
count y, ard thus tte town of Cape-Francois
beirtg evacuated by both armieSj was immedi
ately exposed to the depredations of the ne
groes, niulattoes, and brigands, who
nothing to oppo'e tiienij ruihed in with demo
niac fu r y and fetfire to it in eve.v quarter.
—Had either party, Ga'b nd'sor the cominif
fionsrsfucceederf, this most unfortunate event
would probably not have happened.
Cipt. Jone» lurthcr fav<, tint more than two
thirds of ihe (hipping " Cap>-F'anc« s lud pot
10 ft* before he wriphed aiehor, and the reft
followed ; th«t boats Had been prcvioufly feat
from <Ke tneo 'A w?r'o bring off'! ** 'rtrt
\vr'ie ifi. hiicf>««! ;<n(i with arwmu-*
!,vcu)rt unit's ; f-.Mi foveial bou.lt
wl,h < {la% <tt iru< - c »pp><»>»cJvng ihc»Qion% were
.fired at bv rj e hi-acks »wl n>ui*''<>< s; ihat liljj
most monrtroua lifne of p;iM«\e'*n£ , 'V>as eKiu-
Imcd—the. roads wsre throned with people
. going 'the town to the and
vetfa. Thai the Orleans regiment of dragons
were all taken priiouVrs % the HuJnXS, Wtti (cu*
on boaid the men of waj ; the latlQis then
mounted the hoi(r«, and wiih 1 oarding u>h
harpoons, &C., made great havoc among 'he
blacks. Foitunaiely for the fn« lives, eight fait
of American vefle L> arrived a dfy or iwo i> lore
the fleet failed. ' e • 1
It i* obvious. however, that 'he accounts arc
iroperfeft; thr number of the fi-m» on eithet fids
could next be afcerta'nef!, ;'s no communication.
W?s permuted with th " fhipp*Og «be CM-
vook. pj*c<v--the. j*»m< ulat s wh;ch
originated the irtiLhiei, are hot I;uhcienuy de
veloped---the numb''r of the y/hues who took
pa-rt with the commiilioners is not ■ ruennoueo ;
and tha« of the blacks and mulattoes is equally
aiikndwn.
Thus much appears tot* evidently true, that
a ft:< m* of devastation and n>i'cry hasbc<.n d<<-
playfd, of such extent, a* to narrow up vhe U el
ings of every intud (ulceptibit of the einotiwrvs
of humanity.
A writer in *vfr. Dunlap'9 p*perof Monday,
(peaking of the probable confcquenccs of the
foregoing even*s, thus exprefles himfeif:
The cii itehs of this metropolis deservedly
rank high as the friends and patrons of the ut)*
Tortuftate ; and so long as human Mc is a Cn<*-
quertd fcetv*, the opportunities wilt frequency
occur for them to fuppoH the chui.iclcr thfc) ai
p»efrnt fuft'in.
The teie (hor kin? even's at Caoe- Fyanro's wHI"
very soon throw's great number of fu<Fe» ing vie
tims, men, women and rhiidien on'thei" bounfy
?nd cnnpailion—and a tiotiM r annot txUi; 'nat
the hariri nf benevol rc<- wUI ''he. < xte ded for
theii lifceial relief. T'nif m«v-%e' ft' i-'cri in
different direction?, by ijofi ißCjjWii'-' if
't'f'r im»t»rthvu w <ll '.;r
immediate and positive re' ef. Ou tilt's
much ID a V be said, and fbauv •) >
ed, Hit the success of ihc whole, depends pnYu;
ripally, if not entirely on dOaUr.g; ihe porte*.
firings of thof* who are in ciVrii: adduces in im
part.———And, Oh ! how will the !ru!v
rous exult in an opportunity to apply the 'uv.-
plus .of their wealth io such a iu>ble 'pti*p •fc.
The excrfs appropriated on «h s ore a lion will
be put out of the re£ch of set ideut ! —
The provision is, that rents fliould,
ndt be enhanced,—for our fellow beings n.uft. be
Sheltered—that the prices of the nftCtflariejr of
life (Tiould not be raised —for *he Hungry n»uft be
fed —that th.e Jaudjble spirit of aequilition
should, on tbis ox cafion, fuller a temporary ktf
pcnfion ; for though ** one p rfon's n c< flity is
another's opportunity." yet he that t a kesad
vantage of an unlotrunate multitude, makes
himfelfa foul blot in the creation of God."
The fatal confluence*, fa v.* a correfoondent*
retailing from fettiug up rival,' coeval and un.
conuolrd authorities, have oeen exemplified in
the experienceo\ mankind in all ages; and the
history of the Frcnch R<voU«>on, fronj
its commcnccmeut to the picfnvt d;»v, 'it a Unk
ing comment on the trinhoi the pofiti.in. Va
rious inftancei of the clafhirg of authorities have
occurred in the French Welt India Colonies—
these have been attended fioin time to time
with circum(lances which m«.ke the flood freeze
in the veins at their recital.
So far a 5 information has been obtained, the
terrible catastrophe which has just h*p.pcncd to
Cape-Francois, appears to have onginated in a
competition For power between the Com iriif
fioners, and th« newly appointed Governor of
Hifpanipla. By this melancholy instance, wc
mav fee that nothing is facrcd or humane
which comes in competition with a gratifica
tion of ambition, rivalry and revenge.
The anniversary of Independence has" hern
more extensively celebrated rhis year than usual.
Ir affords pleasing rcflc&ions to the patriotic
mind to observe such a fpirii ol union and fra
ternal affcflion among the cititcnt of the United
States. The acknowledgment of ibe blcflings
of Independence as fscured by a jult and ener
getic government, are among the mofl fluking
lentiments expressed on this occasion ; whilfr-a
genertfns wish for the freedom and happMefsof
the whole society of man, appe.trj to have glow
ed in the hoftjm of every afletnblage of cuiicus
thro' the Union.
Powell, the calibrated pedellrian, has paid
the last debt of nature. He died on the 1 Jth
April last, at his apartment at New-Inn, Lon
don. His extraordinary feats of walking, by
which he might with proper management
have benefited To much, never produced him
enough to keep him above the reach of indi
gence. Poverty, which he ought always to
have kept a day's march behind him, was hij
constant companion in his travels through
life even to the hour of his death.
£3" No Brjion Ncwfttpvi have been received
h Ike Editor ihii riteh-r-altho*j>h txtratts Jrom
thoje due here on Monday, appear in t!u A'cw-Yvrk
y'tpers of that day.
ARRI VEDf the PORT®/ PHILADELPHIA.
Biie Mary- Willt, Tanuica (oii/c to llic
m b u fc a d c )
Ne"w- Providence
Si. Euftatia
Cape-Francoil
Pi>rt-»u Prince
do.
Nancy. Condill,
Kcfiah, Guier,
Artivc, Waters,
Hitter, Baker,
Schr. Eagle, Jones,
Jur.o, Hainhlin,
Inouftry, Tristram,
Trial, Vannemap,
Industry, Aon>wy,
Chance, PaflciifirU,
Sloop Maryannr, Gllti, '
Jenn>, F nch,
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 pet Cer.u, v.i
3 perC-nu, S, 3
IVfcrrcd., «/V,<
Full fhirci Bank U. S. St*> « v -
[Eng. Pa*]
a*. *
St. Tftn/n«
Newport, Jjt.'l,
N. Caraiifta
Virjypi»
NoftoikJDK;. its. D! 1 J.cto
fRLCE CUR H L N T.
si* QUANTITY. — Dollaks 100 Cents t3Ch. "-Qfitto b#!!u U, 12 6oiilcs 5
-- ■ - ■ -Spermaceti pr. £*11. 4I
PHILADELPHIA, JutY 13. *4 *
——Wbaie 25 3,
A Dili. Lt>. POr,tr r r - "<*. 4 3i
N'CHOIIS pr.lb. 7 10 —-London, pr.doz. 1 J<
Allu.n, Enstilh, or c«I ill American ditto bot.iocl. 181
Ditto, Roch pr. lb. tt P <" h > ?'■ bbL '73 '
AftlCJ, pot, per ton, i*» l Pork > Burlington, per band, 16 1
Pearl, 137 140 7 Lower county 14.5 c
Arrack pr. gall. j33 1 18"- Carolin« it
Brandy, common, 80 85 Pe, '» Albany pr. buftiel 73
Couuc 90 liOf p «PP tr i pr.lb. 38]
Braeilctto, pr. top. Pimento »S
Bricks, pr. M. 4 7 Raifina, best, pr. keg t
Bread, (hip, pr. « *7 Ditfp pr.jat 3 38'
Ditto, pilot \ Ditto pr. box S 33'
Ditto, small water, per keg 36 4° Ride pr. cwt. 3 U
Beer, American, in bottles, Rosin pr. bartel * 7®
pr.doz.bottle!included, t 74 Rum, Jamaica, pr. gallon t 16
Ditto pr. barrel, 6 Antigua I
Boards Cedar pr. M feel, «0 -—-Windward 86
—— Sew England 10 14 Barbadoes 87
— Oak 14 16 Country, N. E. 6°
■Merchantable pine so 14 - ,
Sap, do. . .0 67 c'iif' P': 'J»
■» 'Mahogany, per foot 10 s ? * ra * PJ" ton
The above pre the fballop prices, s . _
for. he yard price, add, dol- 'a 12 a 9
lar 33 cents per ,000. Enghfh.bliftered, pr. cwt. o
J r American pr. ton sl3 S3
Brimstone in rolls, pr.cwti 267- —Crowley's pr. faggbt 1067
Beef, Bnfton, pei barrel is Snake root pr. lb. «6' 4 9
Country ditto 9 10 Soap, Brown per lb. 6
Frelh, pr. cwt. 3 33 4 67 VVliiie 8
Butler pr.lb. 16 Cailile «t
in kegj jo ib Starch 7
Candles, Sperm, pr.lb. 47 Snuff pr. doz. bot. 4 560
Wax o3 Spcrmaceti, refilled, pr.lb. 44
-UouldVuUow Slilcloth E„glift,N„. t ,pr..y,,d, f 40
r Dipped >2 BMlon.No._l. duto 36
Cheese, Ei.glilb, pr. lb. so I : No. 11. 35
Country ' 8 Sugar Lump, pr.lb £
Chocolate .5 '8 ~n°, ' !!' g <Q
Cinnamon .4« 2 —Dit.o, double do. 33
Cloves 1 1" Havannah, whue 14 16
gs ——Ditto, brown, 10 m
Cocoa pr. cwt. 10 11 .. f ' , •
Coffee pr. It*. 1 4 l 6 Mukovado, or. cwt 9 . ,»
Coal pr bulhel *4 33 «
copperas pr. cwt. , 6 , S.t«. Allom pr. bull,el 33
Cordage, American, per cwt. 10 _ r '*s r '' oo
Cotton pr.lb. 27 37 ZZufc, *
Cuirunts ts
Duck,RulHa, pr.piece 14 <5 Shipbuild. W. O. frames p.ton, so
— Ravens 11 Ditto Live Ok, 11
Dutch fail duck, 18 20 Ditto red cedar, per foot 37 45
Feathers pr. lb. 48 \ *" M 2 ™ f67
Flax ditto .1 .2 6 5° «
r l t. n. Ditto 3 feet, drctled, 1® t.e
Flax feed pr. bufb. 90 o _ D ; * 0
Flour, Superfine or. barrel 6 «7 LHwhiJoak'hogfhead, To 33
w 5 — r ° ak d °- ?
Meal, Indian \ .3 % 33
——Ship-fluff* or. cwt. ,4c »67 be(l iece 33
* u,llC P'- 10 ' 1 ' 20 — -Mink, .0 40
Gin, Holland, pr. cafe, 4 6 b —— Fox, grey 4 o 80
Do. pr. gall. 8a 9 0 Ditto red jBO
Clue, pr. cwt. so ei 33 Martins 24 1
Ginger, white race, per lb. 7 Filbers 33 67
Ditto, common 7 Bears " 3
Ditto, ground pr.lb. lC Racoons s 7 &>
Ginseng, 20 24 —Musk-rats it ic
Gunpowaer, cannon, pr. q.cafk, 373 4 _—Beaver, pr. lb. 67 133
Ditto, fine glared 4 ——Deet, in hair to 30
Grain, Wheat pr. bum g3 Iso _ , , , ~ ,
_ R r 66 Tar I N.Jerre y ,s 4 gal.p.bbl. t
Oais 15 Carolina, 3 s gall. 2
— Indian corn go £5" bb ': . „ 533
Barlev » 1 „ r " b »cco, J-River, best ioold. 433
Best shelled pr. Ib. 7 -inferior 3 33
Buckwheat, per bush. 40 ° i
Kappan&nnock 3 3^
Hemp, imported, pr. ton, 14P 150 Coloured Maryland, 5*3 8
American, pr. Ib. 4 5 Dar | Ci a
Herrings pr.bb!. 3 Long-leaf 2 , 0
Hides, raw pr.lb. 0 Eaftcrn.ftiore 2 223
'7 Carolina,new » 7 3
Hogshead hoops, pr. M. 15 ol(]> |
Indigo, French per lb. 1 67 Tea, Hyson pi. lb. 33 I 28
■ Carolina 1 t so Hyson Ikin,
Irons, fad pr. ton, '33 33 Souchong, 50 93
Iron, Callings pr. cwt 3 4 Congo, 43 jc
Bar pr.*on; 84 Bo.hea. 03 3^
—pig 24 Tallow, refined, pcrlb. g'
——Sheet 173 33 Tin pr. box, 13 33 1367
—Nail rods 101 33 Vetdigreafe pr. lb. 47 cq
Jank, pr. cwt. 4 5 Vermillion, do. < » t67
lard, hogs pr. Ib. 9 10 Varnilb, per gallon qq on
Lead, in pigs pr. cwt. 533 j 67
—in liars 7 W = X ;B« S P r - lb - , 25 «7
-——white 10 ,0 67 Whalc-bone, long pr.lb. 13 30
red 6 40 6 6- Wine, Madeira, pr. pipe, 2.26
XaCather,foal, pr.lb. ty 20 ——Lilbon *20 126
Lignum vitae pr. tan, £60 6 Ttneriffe, pr. gallon 6,3
30 — Fayal
Mace pr.lb. 9 —port pr. pipe 113 33
Mackartrl, belt pr. bb'l. 8 Ditto in bottle*, pr.doz. 4
•———f.cond quality 6 4 Claret 4 6
Madder, best pr. lb. 16 20 Sherry pr.gall. 9b j «o
Marb'.e, wrought, pr. foot, 133 267 — Malaga 80
Mast spars ditto 33
MolalTe* pr.gall. 44 47
Mustard per. lb. 87
—Hour, in bottles, pr.doz. 1 20
Hd. ic i.izd. and pr.lb* 10
Nutmegs pr. lb. 7 8
Oil, Lin feed, pr. gall. 7c
Olive 87
m
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
THRS'ibfcribcr intending to confine himfelf
entirely 10 th« & SALE-os
SHOCKS on COM MISS lON, begfc leave 10 of
fer his Te-rvjces to hisfriendsand others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Tbofc who may please
to favor him with their business, may depend
tipon having it tranfafted with the t/tmoft fide
lity and di fpatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boflon, or any
Other part of the United States, will be ftri&ly
attended to.
ft.f) LEONARD BLEECKER.
COURSE OF F.XCHAXGI.
On London, at 30 days, per £ .100 fieri. 436
— —at ,60 days 453 3.
. at go jaays 44a
Amfterdato, 60 days, pr. guilder, 38
"■ ■ a° d»y«, A
Hercule De Sercey,
From Lcogancy IJland of St. Domingo,
MAKES and fells all fo:ts of Mugs, Jacks,
Porringers, Cups, Stew-Pans, Lamps, &r.
in Tin, plain or japanned —&c also mends old
tin work. As he works cheap, he hope* for the
public encouragement.
No. 23, Race ftrcct, near Fronr-ilreet.
June as.
HERCULE DE'SERCEY,
DE Leogaue, Isle de St. Dominque, travailJe
en fer Blanc, de toutc forte de manures a
commande et a bon marche.
A Plnladclphie, ce. 22 Juin, 1793.
No. 23, Race-ttiect, prcs From-flreet.
G*l& Ctfinf of France and Gel 4 Cci*< ef Great Bri
bp*in%cnd Do win tc"» oj tuin and Portugal.
Spain.
Gr» ; .oj. Cenit. Grain*. Crms.
3 I 7
• 7 ;
, !l 3
4 >4 * 'i
I 18 5 « 8
6 » 6 '»
7 a 5 7 *5
8 «9 8 s 9
c 9 * 33. 9
jo 36 1° 3^
~ 40 11 4°
«* 44 '*
9 <a v .«» £
'4 S' '* f
<s 55 '5 f
J - '6 if 16 i?
, y fe «T °3
,g 66 »8 07
19 «9 '9 1°
to 73 to 74
*« 76 «i 7»
22 '86 *» 81
I 23 f4 *3 85
24 87 «4 89
TABLES for receiving avd paying Gold
Coins, calculated by the Oficers of the Bank of the
United States, agreeable to the new Law—from
which the Grain Tables above are extra fted—may be
had at Benjamin JohwsQ-n's, High-facet, near
fourth-Jlrect.
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE Editor proposes to continue the
publication of the Gazette of the United
States, Jot distant circulation, tf'er. the frjl of
December next, on the fallowing terms, viz.
// Jhall be published on Wedkesdau
Saturdays, <j« of the Medium fze—-which
is larger than the piefent.
The price, Three Dollar* per annum, exclusive
of 'pottage.
Subjcripticns to be racked by the refpeflive reft-
Majlers throughout the Union, or such other pitfons
as may fee proper to coIUQ them.
The papers to be forwarded by pofl twice a week.
A r o packets to contain lef than $i x papers- and no
fibfcriptior.s to be received for a less term thar fx
months.—Payments to be cor.flantly fx months in
advance—Twenty per crnt. deduction Jrom the price
of the Gazitt r., will be allowed to those toho col
led and forward the fubferiptien money, free us er
fevfe, in full of ail charges for their trouble in the
oufnefs.
The publication will contain as vfual % a variety of
Original and dom flic intelligence,
and a summary of the proceedings of the Legijlatuie
of the Union, &c. £3c. Attention will he paid
to dispatching the papers with punctuality % and Sub•
fcribers may depend on receiving them as regularly,
ms the pofls arrive.
June 8.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
2o ok feller, at the Stone- in Second flriet,
Philadelphia,
VOLUME IX, op
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
OR, A DICTIONARY OF ARTS,SCIENCES,
AND MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
Oh a Plan entirely new ,*
»v WHICH
THI DiFUKiNT SCIENCES AND ARTS
arc digested into the Form of Diftintt,
TREATISES OR SYSTEMS :
THIS VOLUME CONTAIN?
HYDROS!" ATICS, Hygrometer, History of
Japan, \.eland, Jerusalem, India,
Intefts, Jnfurancc, Ireland, Italy, Kamlclia<ka,
KiMghihood, Language, Law, I-egt rdemain,
with a great variety of Biographical and Miscel
laneous Articles.—llluftratcd with thirty-one
elegant Copperplates.
CONDITIONS.
I..like work, is printing oh a fuperfine paper,
and new types, {cast for the purpose) which
will be occasionally renewed before they, con
trail a worn appearantc.
11. The work is furhiftied in boards, in volumes
i- ira if-TOMrmea, oi fubfetiber# chuie; rtie prn*e
ot ihe whole volumes, five dollars each,of the
h.ilf-volumes Iwodollais and two-thirds ol a
dollar each. Ten dollars to he paid on fub
fcnbuig, the volumes or half-volumes finilhed
tn be paid for whtn delivered, the price of one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each Inccerdiiigvolumc to be paid on deliver
ing ;he volume preceding it. No part ol the
wort will be delivered unlets paid for.
111. In the courfeof the publication will be de
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia : which by
far exceed in number ihofe givenin any other
fcicntific diflionary. At the clnfe of the pub
lication will be- delivered an elegant frontif
piece,-the dedication, preface, and ptoper ti
tle ptjes for the different volumes,
It ls cxpcfted the woik will be comptifed in
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
The fubfcripiioh will continue open on the
above terms till the firft day of September fiexc,
to give opportunity to those who are not yet
fubfcribeis, to come forward.
Those who have subscribed, and got only a
small part of the work, a ,e rcquclted to com
pleTr their feus, at fur „ s publiOied, as soon as
poßiMe, at after the fuft of nsxt September, by
which tiine the tenth volume is expefled to be
ready, the pub]ifher will not coi.fider himfelf
bound to mike up those fitts which are not
completed up to that period.
Philadelphia, June 19, i7pg.
BANK of the UNITED STATES.
_ . , Ju LT jft, nag.
i« herehy given that there will he
A.X paid at the Bank after the ttfih instant, to
the Stockholders or the>r Reprcfentatives dulv
f^v^xJP URTEEN DOLLARS and
FIFI Y CENTS tor each Store, being the divi
dend Scciated for the i.frfi* monih».
ijy order,
.JOHJJ KEAN, Ca finer,
e P3*
INSURANCE COMPANY
Pf»Tl AOlLPttl \% JoW *4, *793.
NOTICE is hereby gtvru to ihr ot
the lijuutvct Company of North Ameri
ca, the Dik£Lots have declared. a div.dcpd
(to this .cMy) of fix per cent on »hc amount of the
fijft instalment, and of one per cent per momh,
on the sums paid towards the fecund and third
inft.*lmer'.s, calculating from 6'ft day ps
the month following that in which, these pay*
tnent* were made. The.Dividend will he pai<«
to the Stockholders or iKeir R<t>refemar'rve*, a r
the Company's Office, (No. 119, foa*bFront*
Streea) at any time after the 7*h inft.
EBZNtZER UWfilbi Sce'ry.
A* the +tyhers of this Company are
Hfterftd throughout the United States, the Prjrr e * t
in the federalflates «rc requeJltA.- tn g M
pkcetnihetr newjpipers.
RULES
Td Kc obferv®;! in (ranfaQtng Buliseb wttt| tbf
Insurance Company
OF NORTH.AMERICA.
ift. A LL order* for Insurance mud be given
j£ jL in writing, signed by the
and as minute a description of th£ vcffcl is
pefted, a* the person ordering the insurance can
pive, refpefling her age, built, how found „nd
fitted, and whether double or Tingle decked.
ed. All policies will be ready lor delivery, m
twenty-four houra after the order for insurance
is accepted at the office, and the policy mutt be
taken up in ten days.
gd. Nous, witb an approved endorfcr, for all
premiums, must be given in ten days, payable
as follows:
For American and Weft-India rifques, is
three months after the date of the policy.
For European rifques, in fix month*.
For India and China rifques, in *si month*.
For rifquu by tike ~
For rifques for fix mopth*, in fojnr mouths.
And fnr rifques Cor any letfer tiirie, in thics
months.
4th. will ht paid in tev days after proof
and adpftment ; but if the not,e given for thf
premium (hall not have become due within that
time, the amount ot it shall, ncvetiheief*, be de
duced from the loss to be paid.
The Tiifutancc Company of X*rth-AmCa'icl
hereby give notice to all whom It uiay concern,
that, agreeably to the above ru-les, ifeey are ready
to receive all orders for insurance, which may
be addressed to ihem, accompanied wiih direc
tions to Tome responsible holife in Philadelphia
for the payment of the premiums within th*
time limited.
In caff the rifqties offered shall be approved,
the insurance fball be immediately
otherwise notice Ihall be given, cither by artfwci
to (he person applying, or to hikAgcMU, in FhiU
delphu, aa may be ordered.
Bv order of the D» r rftors,
EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'ry.
4 w
J»'y 3-
Albany Glafs-Houfe.
The Proprietors of the Glafs-Manufaftpry,, undej
the Firm of
M'CL ALLEN, M'GREGOR and Co.
BEG leave to inform the puhlte, that they have
now brought their WINDOW-GLASS to
such perfection, at-will be found, on comparrfou,
• o be equal, in quality, to the btft London
Crown Glaft.
Having fixed their prices at a lower rate ihan
imparted Glass, they are induced to believe, »hat
importations of this article will be difrominued,
in proportion as Lheir works are extended.—
They propose to enlarge the f«.alc of thu bufi*
ness, and as the success of it will depend on the
patriotic support of the public, they beg leave to
solicit their friendly patronage in the puriuit of
a blanch which will imercft every lover of
Amrkicak Manufactures.
All orders for Window Gla«; of any fiic,
will be received at the Si ore of Rhod£i and
MacGhfcor, No. 234, Oiieen-ftreet, New-
York, and at the Glass Wa r ehouse, No. 4s,
Market-ftreef, Albany, which will be pun&ually
attended to.
WANTED, fix smart active L ncp
exceeding t6 veartof age, to be indented it
Apprentices, and regularly inftru6«4 ito (lie
variou* Punches of GUfs-M*king.
Alfp, three Window-GUfs Makers, to wJjgq?
great encouragement will be given,
U *793-
NOTICE.
STOCKHOLDERS in the SOCltTf
1 for ESTABLISHING USEFUL MANU%
FACTURES, are requcfted to take notice, that
the fourth and la(t payment is due, and mull b»
made on or before the t-A\k day of July
either to the Caftiier of the United Suit s Bank
Office of Discount and D-'poftt if N«w-Yoik—
the Cafhi<-r of the Bank of N w-York—ibe
Cashier of the Bank of the United Statrs hi Phi
ladelphia—or John Bayard, Esq. in the city of
New-Brunfwick, in the ffate of New-Jet fey.—
And that th«foares of ail per Tons ifcgie&wig to
make such payment, and the-monies by them
previously paid, will then be forfeited for thfC
common benefit of the said society.
That the fubferiber is duly authorized to make
the requisite indorfjnents upon the cenifiotcsuf
shirts, and that books of transfer are opened *c
his office in Front-street.
Jane 12, 1793.
P L
A N S
City of Washington,
Sold by the Booksellers,
DOBSON, CAREY y JOUN(; % C J ('RUKSHAVA*
TICK E T S
In 'he FEDERAL.CITY LOTTERY,
May be-had at SAMUEL COOPER'S Fctry
epi? w
NICHOLAS LOW.
(<■oll3.')