A NATIONAL "WfibNESDAYS ANOf .SATURPATS BY Ff.NNQ, {Jo. 34, NORTH*FIFTtf-ST&tkTi'^Hn.hnr.tvuiA
[No. 105 of Vol. IV'.]
FROM THE COLUMBIAN CENTIN^L.
44 OMNIUM PPIMUM RAWS TUERI PIS&::
UCAM FIDEM." Liv.
Mr. Russell,
» TT has been enquired by citizens anxions
A for the welfare of the country, and aware
of the distress to which it must inevitably be
Teduced by a European war, whethev we
have not already pledged our faith so far as
to preclude us from any present contfderatlpii
of convenience or inconvenience, and whe
ther we are not by oar own voluntary en
gagement bound to take the part of the pre
sent government »n in cafe
the Weft-India iftaild > be attacked bv
Great-Britain.
By the eleventh article of the Treaty of
Alliance with France, the United States
U ' guaranty to his Most Christian Majesty, the
pofleffions of the crown of France in Ame
rica."—But the course of human events has
either totally absolved us, or at least suspend
ed the obligation of this- clause, and it can
not be made even a plausible pretext for. in
volving us in the present war. My reasons
for this opinion are,
1. That the guaranty is te kh most Christian
Majesty, or the poffejfiffls of the crown of France.-—
I ask, who is at this time his moji Chnflian Ma
jesty ? A part of the French nation, and all
the other powers of Europe will answer, he
is the son or the'brother of the late Lours
theXVlth. The National Convention, and
the present Republic of France will fay there
is no such man. The office and all its powers
have been extinguished in the blood of the
person wfah whom your contrad: was made.
If the article "binds us to either of the par
ties, the question, which of the two is en
titled to claim the performance, is now a
audition to be fettled by the event of a civil
War, and neither party can call upon us to
dccide it for them. •
2. That supposing the revolutions of France,
are now completed, and a Republic firmly
established, it may be doubtful, whether they
have not by their change of government, dif
"fofved this clause of the Treaty : I know it
is a general principle of the laws of nations,
that the rights and obligations of Treaties
survive the internal revolutions,of govern
ment, and therefore that the, Republic of
France may be entitled to the benchr; of en
contracted with the former mo
narch. But to this rule there are many ex
ceptions ; the firft Constituent- Aifembly were
so fully of this opinion that they thought the
nation absolved from all such Treaties pre
yioufly made, as might be injurious to their
iqterefh, and the present government have
extended the principle much further,when as a
juftification for opening, the Scheldt, contra
ry to the positive and express flipulation of
many Treaties, they have formally denied
the obligation of any compa& t/ which was
contrary to the natural Rights of Men. Upon fpe-
principles it maybe very question
able how far the sovereign controul of a
French Republic, over illands at three thou
sand miles distance from them is confident
with such natural rights, and it would be dif
ficult to mark the diftin&ion which should
prohibit every art of jurifdi<slion exercised by
one nation over a river flowing through the
territories of another, and at the fame time
allow a supreme authority over'colonies pla
ced by the hand of nature at so wide a dis
tance from the metropolis.-—The pofjejjior.i of
the crQTua qJ France, as guaranteed by our Trea
ty to his moji hrijlian M(ije[ly i appear to me to
have formed a part of that Constitution of
g jvernment which then existed in France;
tney were a part of the monarchy, and under
tae new government they can .no longer be
confiJered as pojfeffiem, in the fame sense in
which they were understood when the Uni
lep States bound themselves to the guaranty.
. 3* Should both these grounds for the opin
ion I am supporting be considered as errone
ousj and the clause in quefHon be held as
binding us to the French Republic, in the
fame manner as it formerly did to the Kinp,
it remains to enquire what was intended by
the guaranty and what are the duties which
it has prescribed to us I—During the admin
ift rat ion of the royal \ ..-rnm«ot, had the
authority of the Covert »• • »en guided by the
maxims of speculative freedom or of prac
tical tyranny; had he provoked a rebellion in
the by opprefling the planters or by
liberating their slaves; the guaranty in the
treaty would not have bound us to assist him
v/.th our blood and treafuies, in enforcing an
abfund and unnatural Government against the
perpetu-tl refinances which it would necefTarj
jy provoke." Had the late King of France,
like other Kings of whom we read in "history,
veiling his insatiate ambition, under Anne
ipecious pretence of glory, of* dignity or of
Safety, declared a wanton and uujuftifiaWe
\%ar against any or all of the commercial na
tions in Europe, and had his pofleffions in
America been conquered by his enemies in
the course of such a war, "he never could have
called upon the United States by virtue of
■this guaranty, to repair the injuries of his
folly, and to tecrifice themselves in support of
25, I 795.
- : ' . .n*. i>i. . ...
his Dlßiwms project*. Ft is tinnecefTary to
f&tigu? the public with the pedantry of quota
tions the write nrupon natural and po
litical Law, but it may he laid down as 3,11
unive-ffal principle, that no ftipuiation con
tained infc treaty, can ever oblige one nation
.to adopt or support the folly or injustice of
another.—ln applying this principle, it be
come* neceflary to observe, that the adniin
iftrat'on of the French government over their
'colonies, since the firft revolution of 1789
has been tisch as to keep almost all their
islands in a con it ant (fate of rebellion and ci
vil War ; hy the forjiifr; of these calamities
the slaves have been united against m.as-
; by the latter the mailers have been di
vided against each other. From the chaotic
mass of hum art passions, a polle&ion of all the
most violent and inflammable elements has
been fele&ed and combined together ; the
torch of the furies has been applied to the
com portion j and the miserable illanders have
been the v;iftims of the fatal cxplofion.
To such a state of desperation have these
devoted colonies been reduced, that a for-
mal deputation as we are informed by the
public papers have solicited for them the
prote<ftion ot'tiie Bii'ifli government; and'
we are now told that this protection ha< been
promised ; that the King of Great-Britain,
has agreed to take poifelfion of these colo
nies and to hold them in trull for his Mqfi
Christian Majefly, the power to whom the letter
of our guaranty has promised the afTiftance
of the United States. An arbitrary and op
pre/five system ofadminjftration compelled us
to renounce the authority of Great-Britain,
and France aflifted us to maintain our honor
able warfare. A similar evil, has driven
some of the French colonies to a similar re
medy; one of them has even attempted a
Declaration of Independence, and all the o
thers would doubtless ,have done the fame,
Were they not profoundly fenlible that the
tims is not yet come, for the Lion to lie down
with the Lamb, and that the justice of their
cause would avail them but little against the
powerful injustice of tlieir oppreflors. But
fuiely there would be fomethipg iingularlv,
and iniquitous, to fee the United States
support the French in a plan of oppreflive ad
ministration over their colonies, as a reward,
for refctiing them from the oppreflion of
Great-Britaiu. It would hg fucli a
vierfion of all moral and political consistency,
such a covenant between virtue and vice,
such a coalition of liberal freedom with des
potic tyranny, as can scarcely be imagined
without a confufion of or expressed
without an abfurd'rty of language.
4- The last ground ijpop which I. consider
this guaranty as dissolved or at least suspend
ed? is, that by the att of the French govern
ment, it has been rendered impracticable.
They have declared war against all Hie naval
powers of Europe. "What the event of that
war will be, it is not given to man tofpretjel;
but we cannot take a part with the French
Republic, without uniting all the reft of Eu
rope against us ; which upon every lational
calculation of probability, would be dooming
oarfelves to inevitable ruin and deftru&ion.
We are therefore commanded by a Jaw,
which fupercede* all others, by that uncon
troulable law of nature, which is paramount
to all humap legislation, or compact, to re
main at peace, and to content ourselves with
wishing that laureled victory may fit upon
the sword of justice, and that Crnooth success
may always be strewed before the feet of vir
tuous Freedom. MARCELLU S.
EXTRACTS,
Written it 1790,— Tmnjlattijr<m the French.
" "TAR from faying to . people that nature
X has made all men e<]ual, they ought to
learn on the contrary, that (he has made them
very unequal; that one is born strong and
another weak j that one is born healthy and
another infirm ; that allarenotequaHyadroit
«nd vigilant, and thus the mailer piece of
well regulated society is to render equal by
laws, those whom nature has made so unequal
as to their ineans. By nutuia! equality, we
understand an equality as .to rights, and not
an equality in fact ( since it is true that men
are born with unequal means, and pass their
lives in conditions very unequal whatever li
berty the country to which they belong may
polTefs. A Shoemaker of ancient Rome was
not the equal of Scipio, although he had na
turally as much right as Scipio to be elected
to offices ia the Republic; they were both
equal as to their rights, but unequal as to
their means. It would be better, perhaps, to
adopt the expreflion of civil equality, since all
the citizens are profeifted by equal laws
There is not, and .there never will be any
other equality among men.
ALL wife Legislators have added to the
obligation of laws the ties of religion. Thev
thought that they could rot take too many
precautions to establish among men subordi
nation—that tutelar; angel of the world
But the philosophers of the present day, build
their republics like Plato upon a Hem theory.
409
They have :n their imaginations an itWal
world, which they wish tp-ftibftitute for that
which really exiits.
TRUE Courage has always confifled in
boldly speaking against arbitrary power, whe
ther of the Prince or .of .the People. It is
when every body is awed to Jilence in the pre
sence ot a Despot—-it Is. in the midst of Slavery
a man ought to elevate hi§ voice in fa
vor of Liberty; but when a furious multitude
all pu'rfiUng this fame liberty, and marking
their fodtfteps with blood rises, it is then ne
celTary to fofren the voice, and to speak dis
creetly in favor of government, without
which thpre is no liberty. In one word, cou
rage at jfueh a time confills in maintaining
moderately our opinions, as it before consisted
in boldly exprefftng them. The arbitrary
power of an individual is defpotifm—»that of
many is Anarchy. Nothing is more frequent
than to.find men of honor, who pride them
selves in oppoling the arbitrary authority of
an individual: But before the power of a
multitude every thing yields in a moment,
and we obey without blulhingv In Short, it'
requires the most fub'ime courage ndt to"
flatter tfce pafHons of the people.
IF there existed on earth a race of beings
superior to man, they would Come times be
acton i Hied at our inftin&i—but would laugh at
our reafoii—Above al/, in the great Events of
this world, our heft efforts betraying so much
imbecility and our projects accompanied.with
so little fmefight, would excite their pity.
Human vanity must confefs that there exists
a kind of fatality which Seems to amuse itfelf
in giving the l.e to our prudence* and at its
pleafureTjaffles the councils of wisdom. It is
to the jhprtnefs ofVour views, we muft.attri
b.ute this, If we. could .find out.caufi?s bef9re
we were, alarmed by their effects, we could
predict events with ibme certainty—but al
ways compelled to ascend from effects to
causes, mau palles his life in reafonning on
the past, complaining of the prefect, and
trembling for the future.
BY a Constitution we combi
nation of the three powers, Lecrijlativc' t Exe
cutive, and Judkiat. A constitution is good
when the three powers are combined.for. the
pcopfe, afid tlie gloj-y, of tt?e
government; A. constitution is bad, when
these powers are confounded or are nnited in
the fame hands for the misfortune of the fub
jeft, or the debafeinent of the'Prihce, or the
Magistrates. Every nation which is not fa
vagc, is a body politic, and. artificial-—the
constitution gives it existence, the l/i>ys give
it a<sl;on.
fHOk TiiE-tOLUMhIAN i^NTINEL.
Mr. Russell,
IT is with much pleasure I have observed
in a perusal of Paris papers, as late as the
16th March, that a great degree of peace and
order appeared to exist in that populous ca-r
pital. 1 obfer-ved-, in a paper of the that
fps Theatres were advertised as open on that
evening for public exhibitions.; and I think
the following diary of the business done in
the Commune of Paris, no bad index of the
tranquillity of the city, viz.
CrviL State.
March 2d Divorces 6. Marriages 25. Births
6?. Deaths 36.
£d. Divorces 5. Marriages 12. Births
91. Deaths 43.
4th. Divorces io. Marriages 29. Births
62. Deaths 69.
sth« Divorces 6. Mnrriages 38. Births
56. Deaths 39, &:c.
In thi; detail the civil state of the is
daily kept, ard in my opinion, i.t is a very
strong evidence that a great degree of order
must reign in a plaee, where the administra
tors of tjiePolice can keep so regulaf and par
ticular an account of the civil circumstances
whioh tranfpjre in it. Your's,
A Friend to the French.
May 1793.
Foreign Intelligence.
CONSTANTINOPLE, Feb. u.
ACCORDING to the latest advi
ces from the Archipelago,feve
ral veflels, mider RuUian colours,
loaded with grain, have been taken
by a French frigate.
Semonville'sarrival is still retard
ed, and it is now believed the
Porte will follow the example of
other powers, and refufe to acknow
ledge him..
Egypt is desolated by a croel fa
mine. At Cairo, the Hreets are fill.
Ed with the dead bodies of the poor
wretches who have fallen a prey to
its ravages—The Plague has again
appeared on a fud'Jeii at Smyrna.
r Whole No. 425.]
v. ' >
SWITZERLAND, Feb. 2r .
The council of Berne
resolved, after a long lifting of ifae
21ft it)ft,, ro accede to the propofaJs
made by the directory of Zurich, of
recommending an official cprrefpon
denpe wjih M. Bartheleiny, Minif
ler of the I'rench republic.
The cantons of Bazjl, Scbaffhoufe,
AppenzelJ, and the towns of St. Gal
l£s, Biel, and also de.
cJared their adherence to the judg
ment of the Directory of Zurich.
The other states of the Helvetic
Corps only waited the determination
of Berne to follow its example.
STOCKHOLM, March j.
The day before yesterday the
young king, accompanied by the
Duke Regent, set off for [JpfaJ.
Another voyage is abeady talked of
in the approaching spring, towards
the Finland Frontiers, when an in
terview may have place between the
Etnprefs of R uflia, our young Mo
narch and his illuttrious' Uncle,
WARSAW, (Poland) March 6.
The Ruffian ambaflador lias at
length persuaded his majHly to
make the voyage to Grodno. His
excellency goes on before about the
9th, and his majefly is expected ro
follow towards the end of the ap
proaching week.
H A G U March 2?
On the 2tft infh great part of (he
noble town-hall of Maeftricht fell
in. This is the cqnfequence bf the
bombardment, which, it feeiriSj was
designed rather to destroy the city
than i:.ke it.
Thirty-nine- pieces as cannon,tak
en frorri the-Kren-ch in the fwfiion of
the ;Bth, were brought ipts Maef
tricht on t,h e .3.4 th. It ip fupppferf
that they mult have 101 lin the dif
ferent engagements fi;orn the tßth
to the 22d, more than 60 pieces of
cannon, and that they had 14 or iy
thousand men killed or wounded.
The loss on the fide of the Austrian?
is estimated at 6000.
O S T E N D, March 31.
The whole province of Brittany,
except Nantes, is now in arms. The
Paris papers state the number of re
volters at 40,000, but other accounts
by private letters make them amount
to 90,000 men, It is supposed that
the reason of their Hopping the
mails by ihe way of Calais is, to pre
vent its being known in England,
lelt afliftance IhoulJ be sent to the
revolters. They are in pofieffion
of all the country round Brest and
Rochelle.
L E Y D E N, April j.
" Head quarters of the Prnflian ar
my at Laubach, on the Hanfcrue,
March 24.
" We are encamped here at the
distance of 2 leagues from Simeri'a,
which is occupied by our troops.
" In a little time v»e (hall advance
against Cruetznach.
" Our van-guard, under the com
mand of Col. Seculi, having fallen
in with the enemy on the road, re
pulsed them the firft day, on the se
cond he was repulsed in turn, but
en the 3d he beat the French, and
drove them as far as Binpcn. The
iofs on either fide was trifling. A*
our corps was not fuflicientjy nume
rous, it retired to Stromberg. We
should have been already maitersof
Kingen, had not a spy a native of
Crueiznach, informed theenemy of
our march. He has been arretted
and will soon luffer put*ifhuienr. ''
" I his day 4 Pruflian regiments
palled the Rhine at St. Goar, to join
us. VVe arc informed also, that se
veral Auftriaa regiments of the ar
my of Prince de Hohenloh- have
quitted Treves under the coeraiani
Vef Ger. Kalkre-Jth, to form a junc
tion with our troop*. When they
arri»e, we fliall form together a bo
dy of 40000 men,commanded by that
General,who will proceed to Mentz
in order to lay siege to it."
BARCELONA, (Spain), March I
The fujiei intendant of ihe cannon
founder* of this city has been ar
retted. He is accused of having
kept up a correspondence with the
French, and it is said that papers
have been found i(i his custody,
which will tend to convict him.
Several Catalonians have also been
arretted. They are fufpeifted of
having had the perfidious design ot
setting fire to the powder magazine.
Twenty-three French merchant
ships have been carried into one of
the ports fttuated at the diltance of
two leagues from this city. The
convoy conlilted of twenty seven,
bnt four of them escaped.
We are infojmed from Alicant,
that our fleet is to be joined by that
of England at that port. Large ma
gazines of provifiot'S, particularly
of biscuit, are forming there. f
BOIS LE-DUC, March 28.
This afternooil we received the unex
pected and plealing intelligence, by a courier'
from the Austrian General Mylius to the
Duke of Brunfwick, that the city of Antwerp
had surrendered by capitulation on the 26th
inft. between lix and ftven o'clock in the
evening; and that the French commandant,
Gen. Maraffe, was to march out, according
to the capitulation, with his whole garrison
with military honors to the frontiers of
France.
TheDukeofßrunfwick in consequence there
of, has ordered his troops who were cantoned
on th« territory of the Republic, to.advance
towards Hooyftraaten. The one part will
commence their march to-morrow, and the
reft will follow the next day.
LONDON, April 2
General Clairfayt is promoted to
the rank of Field Marlhal, and the
Archduke Charles inverted with the
Grand Cross of Maria Theresa, for
their military exploits.
Admiral Macbride has made a
moil teaman-like disposition of his
numerous" fleet of crullers j they
stretch across the whole channel,
and nothing can escape them. They
have taken a number of vcffch,
neutral bottoms, laden with grain
and stores, the cargoes of which, we
suppose, will be bought by govern
ment, and in the mean time these
captures, they conceive, mult great
ly distress the enemy.
APKiI 4,
The Polilh Resident at Dantzic
has protested against the submission
of that city to the King of Pruflia.
The Empress of Russia has, however,
consented to the raeafure.
It is reported that Simon, the
Mayor of Bruilels, while the French
were there, and five other citizens,
were hanged within half an hour
after the Anftrians entered the city.
Executions which would so ill ac
cord with the promise of a general
amnesty by the Emperor, we cannot
believe to have taken place.
According to letters from Italy
we are informed, that a corps of
5000 French, under the command
of General Bruent, attacked, 011 the
14th, a detachment of 1000 men,
composed of Auftrians and Pied
montefe troops, commanded by Ma
jor Strafaldo, near Sofpillo j the ac
tion was bloody ; our troops loft
260 soldiers ; Major Strafaldo was
wounded ; two captains and two
lieutenants were made prisoners by
the enemy.
This defeat is to be attributed to
the Piedmontefe, who having fled
at the commencement of the battle,
drew the Auftrians after them. The
loss would have been greater, if the
mountaineers had not aflifted us.
Private advices are said to have
arrived from Dunkirk, that a dis
pute has brakeu out there between
the inhabitants of Boulogne and
those of Montreuil, the latter have
declared themselves against the re
cruiting service, and have even op
posed the constituted authorities,
who endeavored to enforce the de
cree relative to this article : these
hare been neceflitated to call to
their aflirtance the national guard
i f Boulogne ; —which as soon as it
arrived near Montrsnil fori ml the
guard of that town colleillfd, arid
advancing in good order, with a de
tachment of the regiment of Lau
zun, to difpote its entry into the
town. The people ot Bouloghe,
finding they might be cppofed, re
solved to leave the people of Mon
treal at full liberty to art, with re
fpetft to the execution of Ibeir de
ciees.
On the 17th lilt, a violent infur
reiftion broke out at Strafburgh, the
inhabitants refufiug almost £pa man
to have themfeives enrolled in the
militia ; the aflignats had also a;
(hare in this commotion. Metz In
Lorraine lias also been pretty near
ly in the lame state, aud from the
firfl of the above caafes.
The Itoppage of the French mail
has.been attended with such incon
venience to the merchants, that they
are about to petition governmept to
efta+>lifh a packet, duiiug this sus
pension, between Falmouth aud Co
runna.
The annals of ancient ot modern
times have seldom presented scenes
of greater misery, or exhibited prof
pecfts of more lading calamity, than
rhofe which the present era affords.
Amidst the desolation which reigns
around him, the benevolent enquir
er can scarcely fele<ft one spot on
which his eye can dwell with com
placency, or fpecify one a&ion he
can honor with approbation.' 1 As a
politician, he Ibiinks at one'mo
ment from the approach of anarchy,
and trembles at another for the ef
tablifhtnent of despotism ; the pros
perity of the former produces much
apprehension, and the successes of
the latter inspire 110 consolation ;
while we are condemning the ini
quitous contributions levied upon
Antwerp by Dumourier, we are re
minded of the rapacious exactions
of Cobourg at Aix la-Chapelle.—
When we examine the charatfter of
the different tuitions of Europe, a
mong some of them we hear lofty
declamations on religion and mora
lity from their pulpits and senates,
though infidelity lurks in the heart,
and profligacy dire&s the life ; and
behold a people (hunning Ojeabyfs,
yet playfully wantoning on its
brink ; while among others princi
ples of atheirin are profefled, homi
lies inculcating ic are taught, and
sentiments and a&ions operating in
dreadful unison, create universal
confufion
The following is a tranftation of
the order of hi 3 Catholic Majesty
for the expulsion of Frenchmen from
Spain, addressed to the Governor of
the council of Castile :
Sir,
" Hostilities ought to be regard
ed as already commenced with the
French ; and cenfidering them as
aggreflors, according to the advice
given by Ladiflos Habor, comman
dant general, per interim, of Cata
lonia ; under this fuppoiition his
majesty, without waiting for the
conclusion which his extraordinary
council will addrels to him, wills,
that proceedings be immediately
taken to expel from ihrs kingdom,
beginning at Madrid, all French
inen, not housekeepers—and that
notice be given to each of them,
without loss of time, to depart from
the place of their residence in 8 days
time, under the penalties eftablifli
ed in like cases.
" The day (hall hereafter be fix
ed for their departure out ofSpain,
and measures will be taken to pre
vent their concealing themfelves,or
avoiding the moil direct road. I
inform your excellency of the or
ders of his majesty, in order that
the council may cause this royal re
solution to be executed with the
zeal and activity expected.
(Signed) Duke de la Alcudia."
April 6
The opinion of an eminent coun
cil has lately been taken on the fol
lowing queitifiij ; " Are tjip landed
estates of Bankers liable to the pay
ment of their notes, and i heir other
debts on simple comraift His an
swer was, " Bankers* as well as
other traders, aie fubjecft to the
Bankrupt Laws ; and if, on fail' re
of the payment of their debts-, a
Conimiffion of Bankrupt*-v tic taken
out against them, the i.tnded e(taie
of all the partners (subject to any J
410
feitlement or mortgage tliat may
have been made thereof) as well as
the whole of their personal proper
ty, are liable to the payment ot
their notes, and other debts con
traded in the course of their trade.
Of the dispositions made by Lord
Mansfield of his immense property,
it has only transpired, that he has
bequeathed to the two Miss Mu'r
rays, the lifters of Lord Stormont,
who have long formed a part of the
family at Caen Wood, the Ann of
10,000) • each, and an annuity of
one thousand pound per year. Of
the former font 20001. were to be
paid immediately after his decease.
To his own man, —— Douey, his
Lordship has left an annuity of ajol.
a year. The other fervaius of his
household have a liberal provilion.
The remainder of his fortune de
volves to Lord Viscount Sformont,
the present Earl of Mansfield.
Lad week died in Corke, Dotfior
Leslie, an eminent banker. 1 his
gentleman had amafled a fortune of
near one hundred thousand pounds,
and with the faireft character. He
was far advanced in years,and when
he commenced pratftice as a surgeon,
he artually received half-crown fees
for bleeding. His skill in his pro
felfion, was not furpafl'ed by his fi
nancial abilities, which led to so
much opulence.
In the course of a very few days,
our preparations for war have af
futned a new tone, and become as
active as they were evidently re
miss, when our allies, the Dutch,
were in the moll imminent danger.
Of the fituaiion of French affairs
at present, in point of fact, this
country appears perfectly ignorant ;
the rumours of the day, the off
spring of political prophecy, are as
follow :—That Dumourier afluming
the double character of General
and Politician, had abandoned all
his conquests, and with his army
had repaired to Paris, for the pur
pose of making an effertual stand a
gainst the party of Egalite, his Prime
Minister Robertfpiere, and his vir
tuous Aid du-Camp, Marat, t'o -whom
is attributed the recent defeat of
Dumoarier's projects in the Ne.
therlands ; and, horrible to the re
flection of civilized society, it is re
lated, that the purpose of the par
ty at prefentoutof power in France
can only be attained by a general
niaflacre of their guilty opponents.
A Treaty of Alliance is about to
be concluded between this court
and that of Vienna. Lord Elgin is
gone thither for that purpose.
The trade of this country has
been so well protected by the num
ber of cruizers in the channel, that
the war has in refpetS to captures,
been felt in a very inconsiderable
degree by the Merchants and Un
derwriters.
Yesterday arrived the Flanders
and Dutch Mails ; the former of
which brought us the Brullets Ga
zettes, with the restored Black Ea
gle, down to the date of the 28th
ult.
By these the intelligence is con
firmed to us, that the enemy have
entirely evacuated the Belgic ter-
ritories
Dumourier was at Bruflels To late
as the 23d ult.—at midnight he-left
it, till which rime the French I'a
troles remained at their polls, and
tolerable good order preserved ; but
so soon as thev were gone, and no
authority exilling as a check, the
populace proceeded to pillage eve
ry place where any valuables were
depofiied ; these tumultuous pro
ceedings • were not ftopt till the
next day, when the Auttrian ad
vanced guard arrived.
On the following day arrived the
Arch Duke, accompanied by the
Prince of Saxe Cobourg, and other
General Officers.
This Prince arrived v/ith a co
lumn of the auny, and was receiv
ed at the gate of the city, about
halfafier one, by the Magillrates
and other' officers, who accompa
nied his Royal Highnel's to the Col
leg-ire Cha»ch of St. Gudule, to
fcnd»r thanks to God for the success
of tut aims of his auc;uH: brother.
After r'.ie Ft? Ocn n had been sung,
iid after a exa nined the »«.-
ri had made in the
iM'ch us r,oyal Higlmefs weju |
to the eanrt, where , an «pari«>en l
had been prepared for liim ; —ii, -
furniture and the moveables l.cie
had either been pillaged or fold i.*
the French. In the evening all u/e
fronts of the houses were illumina
ted ; and his Ro/al Highjiefs ta
king a carriage shewed hijnfcif i n
almoit every quarter of the city
am id It such a number of peopic'
that they frequently 01-fti ucted Kii
paH'age, and filled the air with ac
clamations.
The sacred vefieis, chandeliers
and other things ot silver taken by
ilie Executive Council from the
Churches and neighboring Abbeys
were reltored en the 2sd ult. by or
der of Gen. Dumouner. Ou the
next day the Buigefles, after having
pulled down the pretended uee ot'
liberty, with the cap at the fanunit
of if, drew ic by a cord ill rough tnc
streets adjacent to the Grand P«.
lace, where, making a great fire
they committed it to the flaiaes'
crying, "To the Devil with Ja Car'
maguole and the Jacobins ; Francis
11. forever.
The bank of England, it is said,
have determined to ifluc j). notes'
and to have dependant offices in dif
i'erent parts of the kingdom.
Excratf of a letter from Conftanti.
nople, Feb. 12.
" The Turkiih to
Russia has commenced his journey
with great pomp, attended by a re
tinue of upwards of 3 00 persons.
His name is Mehemet Reis Jfcffendi.
He takes with inni a great number
of rich presents, eonfiiting of jew.
els and pearls.
" The Divan has given orders to
repair and refortify all the works
of the Turkifli strong holds. Seve
ral armed velfels h;iv e been sent to
the different harbors of the Black
Sea.
" Baron Brentano,who caniehere
to enter into the Turkiih service
has not been fuccefsful in his offer'
and will soon embai k for England."
Twoof ber mnjefty's nieces are
about to be married immediately.
We ihould have been happy to have
said that it had been two of her
daughters.
The two eldest daughters of the
reigning Duke of Mecklenburg Stre
litz are very fhbrtly to be married
to two of the King of Pruflia's fans.
AMERICA.
NASSAU, (N. P.) April j.
A Letter from the Caiacos, re
ceived since our last, mentions a re
port of a French armed veflel from
Europe, having captured a Durch
ship, and carried her into Cape Ni
chola Mole. It is also (aid that a
frigate and two cutters have lately
failed on a cruise from Cape-Fran
cois.
PROVIDENCE, May 16.
Monday evening last arrived the India (hp
General Wafiiington, Capt. Donnifon, owned
by Messrs. Brown and Francis, of this town,
after a pail.ige of five: months Sioin..China,
laden with the productions of the eastern
world.—
Captain Donnifon touched at St. Euftatius,
on his passage home, ar(l confirms the ac
count of the taking of Tobago by the Bfitilh
fleet; it was reported at Statia, that the
Engllfh admiral had declared the port of To
bago free fur Americans for one year.—Capt.
Bailv, iu a (loop owned at New-York, by
MeiTrs. J. P. Mumford and Co. was seized by
the French at Tobago, a few days before the
island was captured.
OXFORD, (Maryland) May 11.
On the ' ' -irrived ; n Choptank the
i Tucker, mas-
Britifti fc
ter, prize
Trency,
tured on
paflage from the ljianci ui new-Providence to
Philadelphia—t'rom her being brought in here
by Capt. John Hooper, of Dorchester county,
manned by the citizens of America, together
with Engtidi and Dutch, and from the wan*
of propet documents, the said schooner was
on vefterday made seizure of by the collector
of this port.
NE W Y O HK, May ar.
Captain Green of the schooner Harmony,
in ten days from Halifax, informs us that a
large homeward bound French Weft-India
man, laden with cotton, indigo, coffee and
sugar, and said to fcte worth 25,003]. had beer
captured by the Alligator frigate, Capt. As
fleck, and carried into that port ; and fevers
other veliels likewise prizes to the fame lri
gate, were daily expected,
tte, B. Enderge
Union was tap-
Carolina on herm
m
FROM THE MASSACHUSETTS MERCURY.
C H A R AC r E R OF
M A R T H A.
! She comes! the Grates round
her throng,
Sylvania's idol, and the pride of song !
When Fancy tunes to her th' eulogial string,
The theme mujl pieafe, tho' Discord's felf
Ihould ling.
See, in her train, a seraph-council moves !
Soft, dove-ey'd FRiSNDsH k p fmilcs, when
Taste approves ;
Gay Wit hex lancet wields, where Prudence
leads,
And proves..Th* heart, while kot a
While fouls, created of a viler mould.
In cfape alone can move, and charm in gold ;
Or, on penurious Nature to retort,
oupivcly languijh o'er an iieot thought:
Thy foft attra&ions, to no sphere confin'd,
Contemn the boundaries ot the narrow miud ;
An etnjjirf, equal to thy poweis, is thine,
la every brightened scene, thyself toshi Nt
Sweet, as the pure, ambrosial breath of even,
Thy converse wings the foul to raptare's heaven,
Such was thf Voice, which taught " all heartj"
to glow,
When liftemng Delaware forgot to flow.
Genius 'may wither, beauty cease to bloom,
And Fanc v build her Sifter Fashion's tomb ;
But thou (halt charm thro' life's revolving year,
Lov'd in it's Spring, and in its Winter dear.
FROM THEr VIRGINIA HERALD.
THE present situation of the United States in
refpeft to the nations of Europe, having
been anticipated in a prophetic speech of a re
fpe&able% member of the Convention oi this
State, when the constitution of the federal go
vernment was under consideration, it may not
be without its use to recur to an argument which
then had weight in the determination of an im
portant question. The firfl and second fe&ions
of the new constitution were under considera
tion. They involved the fubjeft of direst taxa
iion x and it was objetted that the exercise of such
a power, by the general government, was unne
eejfary% impracticable, and uvfuje. In answer to
ihtjirjl obje&ion, Mu JVhvui s° N said, " I beg,
gentlemen, to consider the situation of this coun
try, if unhappily the government were to be de
prived ,ot this power. I lhall not review that
eoncourfe of dangers, which may probably arise
at remote periods of futurity, nor all those
which we have immediately to apprehend ; but
I will mention one Tingle consideration, drawn,
from fa£l itfelf. I hope to have your attention.
By the treaty between the United States and his
Most Christian Maj'. sty, among other things it is
Aipulated', that thegieat pnnciple.on which the
armed neutrality in Europe was founded, (hould
prevail in cafe of juturr. wars. The principle is
this, that free lhips lhall make free goods, and
thatv<(fels and goods shall be free fiom con
denjaaiiq/). .Gnat-Britain did ant recognize
it*—while all Europe was against her, (be held
out without acceding to it. It has been consi
dered for some time pafl, that the flames of war,
already kindled, woujd spread, and that France
and England were likely to draw those swords,
which were so recently put up. This is judged
probable. We should not be surprised in a
Ihort time to consider ourfelvej as a neutral na
tion—France on one fide, and Great-Britain on
the other.
M What is the situation of America ? She is
remote from Europe, and ought not to engage in
their politics or wars.
+' The American veflels, if they can do it with
advantage, may carry on the commerce of the
contending nations. It is a fourcc of wealth,
■which we not to deny to our citizens.
But, Sir, is there not infinite danger, that in de
spite of ail our caution, we should be drawn
into the war ? If American vcffels have Fench
property on board, Great-Britain w»ll seize
them. By this means we shall be obliged to
relinquish the advantage of a neutral nation, or
be engaged in a war. A neutral nation ought to
be »e<pc&able, or elffi it will be insulted and at
tacked. America, in her present important
fituatvon, would run thr v ifque of being drawn
in a« a party, and lose advantage of being
neutral. Should it happen that the Britilh fleet
(hould be superior, have we not reason to con
clude, from the spirit displayed by that nation
to us, and to all the world, that we (bould be
insulted in our own ports, and our vcffels seized ?
But if we be in a rcfpeflable fituation —if it be
known that oar govei*nment can command the whole
refaurces oj the Union, we (hall he fuftered to en
joy the great ad vantages of carrying on the com.
merce of the nations at war; for none of them
would choose to add U.S. to the numbir of
their enemies."
Every one knows that the power contended
for, was tepofed in the general government.
Evav one knows that the filtration of this coun
try, predicted in the argument, and the war an
ticipated by the speaker, have occurred ; and
every one ought to know, that it is the true in
terest of the United Spates, to obf?rve a ftri&
neutrality. What American then will be so
imprudent* as (Irom-motives of precarious profit
to himfclf) to jeopardifc the peace and profpe
fity of his country, hv any ast which may bring
into suspicion the fmcerijy of the difpnfjtion of
the general .government, ss declared in the Pre
fiden.'s Pioclamation ? Patriots will abhor
such a condutt. But ii is not enough that ihey
restrain only themfclves from political iniquity ;
oor country abounds in fourccs of fucccffful
f peculation, and fwtndlers of rvery cast, as well
natives as fortifners, arc multiplied among us.
The most lac red obligations aic not fufficient
a; ways to repel the power of avatire : It is there
lore necessary that the eye of vigilance fhnuld
be abioad, to difcriromate those who dare,
in coriirjnpt-of constitutional authority, to vio
lace the (aw of nation*.
From the AMERICAN DAILY ADVERTISER♦
Of the United States taking part in the pre
sent War between France & Great-Britain.
I. A SUDDEN and great diminution of
jLjL the exports and imports of the Uni-
ted States.
11. Tlie reduction of the price of wheat
from 8/4 to 2/6 per buftiel,
111. An increase of the price of all imports
—Salt would probably lift from 3/6 to 3/. pr.
bushel.
IV. A failure oi' the interest on the public
debt, by which meansmany thousand widows,
orphans, and aged citizens, would immedi
ately tie reduced to poverty and misery.
V. A contradiction of all that has been
said by republican writer?, that wars origi
nate.in the pride, ambition and avarice of
Kings—and that Republics love peace, and
negotiate mistakes and insults with their
neighbours
VI. Great difirefs among all clafll-s of otir
citizens, from the loft of fathers, husbands,
brothers, and sons, who would perilh in bat
tle, or in military hospitals and prison fliips.
VII. A great encreafe of the public debt,
and a heavy tax upon our farms to pay it.
VIII. A revival of the idleness, extra
vagance, fraud, and profligacy of manners,
which were produced by the late war, and
which are now nearly baniflied from our coun
try.
IX. An iticreaTe of the influence of the ex
ecutive part of the general government,
whereby the balance of principle 1 ! and con
duit would turn in favor of monarchy and
aristocracy.
X. Peace, after a seven year's war, with
disgrace to our country—bankruptcy to thou
sand of individuals, and a concentration of all
the expenditures of the war, in the hands of
half a dozen contractors, quarter-maftei s and
speculators. NUMA.
Philadelphia, May 25.
i 6 Within tliefe last three weeks the Auf
trianshave had the advantage in four anions ;
the French fought gallantly under Dumourie-,
but were obliged to quit their ground, altho'
much fnperior in number, and are quitting
almost every place they had,gained polTeHlon
of. Li?ge, Bruflels, Oftend,
K1 under t, Lou vain, &c. are all abandoned.—
Our fleets are in high condition, some already
at sea, and others quite ready. The loss we
have sustained at sea from their declaration
of war eight days previous to our knowing
their intentions, and commencing hostilities
in consequence, has been trivial indeed, not
one sixth what our merchants were apprehen
fiveof; this is owing to the greatest exer
.tions in the naval department, the coafl of
France being literally covered with our fri
gates ami fioops of war ; so that if by chance
any of our trade is picked up, before they get
into a French port they are frequently re
captured, and not uncommonly The captor
also. At the instant lam writing, there ift no
communication whatever with France, it is
ten days since we have deceived the least in
formation from Paris ; without being the least
sanguine, I may fay that all things, as far as
human forefight goes, seem returning to a
renovation of the former system, but with at
tention to the lower orders of the people, who
will f om the interference of this country, be
relieved from many impositions."
By account? from Ireland, per the Ann and
Mary, it appears that the government have
put a flop to the emigration of redemptioners
from the north of Ireland. None, therefore,
but persons of property, who may be able to
advance the pafl'age money for themselves
and families, can attempt coming to the
United States, and even tliofe find an almost
insurmountable difficulty in difpoflng of their
property—so that the people of Ireland feein
to be in a manner completely imprisoned, and
obliged to remain under their present yoke.
This, however, they do not so much complain
of, as that of being difarmed— r though this has
not yet been complied with by the northern
volunteers.
Napper Tandy, who was charged with be
ing accefTary to some infurre&ions at Dun
dalk, was ordered to take his trial. This,
however, he declined, not expe&ing much
fair play from the laws now dictated by the
executive ; and, in consequence, he has made
a retreat to France, as is generally fuppo'ed ;
from whence, it was thought, he would loon
set out on a visit to the United States.
The Governor of the Bahama Islands has
iflued a proclamation, permitting the impor
tation of provisions in foreign bottoms into
those islands for fix montfis, from the 1 ith of
April, 17*3-
The Commissioners appointed to receive
Subscriptions to the Bank of Pennsylvania,
have giv»n noWe, that the Subscription will
bs opened on Monday the gd day of June next,
at tlie Lodge, in Lodge-Alley.
Tlie Humane Society of Boston have voted,
that five guineas be presented to the Rev.
Mr. Shaw and Mr. Eliflia Doane, to be by
theni difiributed among those persons who so
humanely exerted thetnfelves in the preserva
tion of the lives of the officers and seamen of
the (hip Gertrude Maria, Capt. Klien, from
Denmark, wrecked on CohaflTet, the 13th Feb.
last, to be diftributcd in fuchamodeas they
shall judge will be most acceptable.
His Excellency Arthur Fenner, Esq. is re
elected Governor, ar.d the Hon. Samuel J.
Potter, Esq. deputy Governor for the State
of Jihode-liland.
NEUTRALITY.
PROBABLE CONSf^UENC'ES
Extraß of a letter from London % April 5.
411
Portsmouth, (N.H.) May 15.
Caps. Samuel Briard arrived here last evening
from Tobago, which he left the 21ft April, and
informs, thdt the islands of Sr. Chrillopher,Gre
nada, and Antigua were opened for the import
ation of lumber and pTovilions in American
veflels :—And that on Friday 10th of May, in
tot. 38. 40. long. 68. SO. spoke the Britfih fri
gate Andromeda, Capt. Satifbury, of 32 guns,
cruizing on this co»ft. The officer who came
on hoaFd Capt. Briard's vefltl, informed, rhat
the Winchelfra manvf war, was alio cruizing in
thefc seas. The Andromeda had been 44 days
from England.
In confequtnce of the opening of the ports of
the BtitiCb ({lands, two vessels have (ailed trom
Portfinouth, for -St. Kilt's with produce and
lumber.
The ExtranrcHnary-Commifljon of Guada
loupe, the 2ill March last, decreed, " That the
ports of BaU'e-terre and Pbinte-Apitre will be
freely opened to the veflels of the United States
of America.
That Paid veflels will have liberty to export in
return for their cargoes all kinds of colonial pro
duce, payfnghowevef the local duties, and those
called Domainc d'oceident."
The Aflembly of St. Lucia, has decreed—
11 That reckoning from the 17 [ h March, all the
ports of the jfland (hall be opened to all ncuirai
veflels."
A merchant of this city, has received let
ters dat£d the 4th of April, by a fh'p arrived
at Alexandria froiji Gibraltar; from one of
these letters, the following extra# is copied :
" Since the commencement of hostilities
against France, our small squadron stationed
here, have capturecf 16 French (hips—eight
of them With valuable cargoes of sugar, cof
fee, cotton and indigo, from the islands, some
ith wines and brandy for the northern ports,
and others with aflortcd cargoes from Mar
seilles, bejund to the Weft-Indies.
" We soon expe&'here a confide rable squa
dron of British, Dutch, and Ruffian ships of
war ; these are to be joined by about 20 ships
of the line fronp Spain, that are ready at Car
thagena, jvhicty will make a very formidable
fleet—what* tbpir intentions are, time will
discover, foipe great enterprize mull be in
agitation, rfhe French have failed in their
expedition agairill the Island of Sardinia, and
met with considerable Joss ; their squadron
has retired to Toulon, where we imagine they
will remain during the war."
The following particulars, from the Gene
ral Advertiser, are colle&ed from
on board the brig Sally, from Cape-Francois :
Dumourier really went over to the Auftri
ans some time in the of April. He
tampered firft with the old commillioners to
Belgia; informed them that he row found
Frenchmen unmanageable under a republic,
and that they required all the rigour of mo
narchical energy to keep them in a proper
degree of subordination. He next communi
cated his change of sentiment to the Conven
tion by letter, (who probably received the in
formation from the commillioners as Toon at
least) and explicitly declared to them that
France mult ■have a King.
The paflertgers in the Sally, do not appear
acquainted with the circumstance of commif
-fiiMiecs being dispatched by the Convention to
apprehend him ; but mention, that Beurnon
ville was ieSrjt off to take the command of the
army.
Duinowricr, they fay, before he quitted his
post, made known his sentiments to his army,
particularly to a body of about 12,000 most
attached to him. These latter hesitated a
moment whether they fhoiild join him, but at
last determined to remain firm. His etat
major, affirm, others mention,
that a great number of officers Accompanied
him in his difgrateful flight—butnotont piivate.
The following is a copy of the presentments
made by the Grand Jury, at the last dillii£t
court held in Richmond, Virginia.
WE of the grand jury do present as a griev
ance the great extent of the prison bounds, as
established bv the diftrift court.
We of the grand jury conceive it our duty to
notice the grievances under which this county
at present labours.
i ft. By presenting the defc&ive state of our
laws, which render replevin bonds ineffe&ual
for the recovery of debts, even under the u!ti
ma»c decrees of our supreme court.
2d. WejpeffiK the uufoitunate fr.uation of
this dittrift, the courts of which are limited by
law to 24 days in a year; a period though per
haps fufficnnt in many other parts of the state,
entirely inadequate, here, vvhere the public bu-
Cinefs (milled to preference, occupies the far
greater part of the time, insomuch that many
appeals lie now undetermined from the inftitu
ticn of this court, an augmentation of the
docket every term.
We hope that a vigorous interposition of the
executive might soon alleviate those evils, and
surely never was there a ftrouger call for their
exertions, when it is considered that by the best
information not less than ten thousand replevin
bonds do now or Will exist befoie the usual time
of meeting t)f the Aflembly, by which, so many
of the mod valuable citizens are deprived of
their property, and the folc objettef all govern
ment, the speedy afid impartial ad mini ft rat ion of
justice is utterly defeated.
Whilst we view with plcafure the rising opu
lence and growing prosperity of some of our
sister flares, founded on the exa& diftribuiion of
justice and the conformity of their conftituiions
to that of the general union, we cannot but la
ment, that this state, from contrary eaufes, i$ in
danger of losing that pre-eminence, to which
our population, production*, and local advan
tages naturalty entitle us. 1 1 - j
Nothing is more obvious than that the profpe
iity of every country will be prccifely propor
tioned to the confidence and credit it acquires
amongst other nation?; whilst these subsist entire,
money can never be wajitmg for agriculture,
manufactures and commerce, the only sources
of wealth ; and reafbn, as well as,the examole
of nations, fh w that the speedy and equal diftri
butfon of justice is the ouly way to acquire
Daily paper.
them.
The New-York Daily Advcrti|>r of the f>&
inft. fays—Affairs in S:. Domingo, particularly
iu Cape-Francois, still wear an alarmtng afpeft.
By a vessel which arrived here yesterday, we
learn, fjm the forces there have had fevrral &ir
milbes with the blacks -thit the blacks ha'vfta
been fuccefsful iu two {ktrmiifces, and had kill
ed (Apri* 29th) upwards of §p whites, and that
the commander "1 the French poopk, to prevent
falling into the hands of the negrot'i, had blown,
out his own bra ins with a pifto).
At Cape Nicole we are informed,
they are fitting out several 10
cruize on the American coalt.
The following gentlemen a*e chosen renre
fentativcs to Congrtfs J torn the slate <»t Miirta
chufetts—vi?. .Samuel Holten, D wight Foilcr,
William l.yman, andPeleg WatHwoith, Efq'»>«
The amount of Rice (hipped from the port
©f Charleftor, S. C. fryin tfy? eft January last,
to the 1i th inft viz. 885Q t'trees; and #0,850
barrels, averaging each 550 wt. neat.
COMMUNICATIONS,
Ii may be the good luck, of an ignorant and
stupid nation to obtain liberty—-but it is only
for a wife and sober people no prefeiye it ; we
have a raltion who arc at work night and day
to four the public against the national govern/
mcnt ; by this means they hope to get it into
their own hands. If our people were as gross
and stupid as the arts used to deceive thejn im
ply that they are, it would be impoflible to
preserve liberty. All the fables that could be
invented, good bad and indifferent have been
told— ©veiy corner of the human heatt has betn
ransacked 10 find there forne spark of paflion or
prejudice that could be puffed iuto a flame 3r*
gainst Congress. The leaders of parties—the
ambitious men hold forth against powei—they
preach humility—they dread the lhadow of au
thority, They fear the loss of our pure manners
and principles, and fo»efee that government
will corrupt ; yet ihefe felt denying ord nance
men, have been found in the a6t oT corrupting
the citizcns by opcnlv their votes.
Let amMtion wrao its golf's hea£ hi flierp-
-let-the fottlcries and frothv olaxinis which
inculcate,purity and v.trtue from the gaming 12-
[>le be printed and reprinted as fi*ft pdlinr.at
truths; let lies be multiplied and the itnluftry
in circulating them quicken in pace ; it is all in
v»in. The American nation owe their free go
vrrriment tint ro accident, but t to thei-r general'
light and knowledge. A people who c6ald be
cheated into anarchy by such gross arts as are
pra&ifiiig for the purpose could neither hive
framed such a fjoveniinent as we enjoy—nor
hive fenfc enough to maintain it, if by accidtnt
they had obtained fucJi an one.
Oppofwg government,embarraffing its mea
fares, and Towing jealousy and fufpicton a
gainst its officers h a trade, and a servile one
too. Sometimes we niuft wade in the mire,
and at others we must work in charcoa'.—
For it is iinpofiible to smut government and
its officers without getting fmiitted. After
serving the time out, a man sets up for a le
former. Nothing seems so proper to reward
the bawlcr agairft the vices of a government
as to put him into place.—lt is plain our ar«
slander aretnakmg a iroifronhr he
caufe they are impatient for their wages—
There are among the clamoiers of the day
not a few who we have reason to believe if
they were in place would contrive to pay
themselves.
We live and learn. It appear-; by fom«
late fcribblings, that he is an aristocrat who
would have the laws govern. If we enquiry
of the advocates of genuine liberty and equa
lity, we are happy to find the whole nation
has rtnbibed the fpilit proper to give efficacy
to their government; there are, however,
not a few who make a great noise about their
republican principles whose style nf life seems
to be raised with a jealous pride above equa
lity. A nabob in a gilt coach drawn by four
or fix liorfes and a train of servants, talks
with great efiedt against diftindtions in fociery
—while he hears of titles with terror, hit
slaves tremble at his nod.—Those declaim
with afincere incorififtency against the flip*
posed anti-republicanism of the States, which
are found mod disposed to support the fede
ral government. An equality crtlrr (hould not
look down upon the people with scorn, nor up
to the laws with aversion and Ijatred.
Who would suppose, after reading the abu
sive reflections on the government of this
country which diftinguilh f.ime publications,
that the people of the United States polTeft
and exercise the rights of free fuffrage in the
mnft unlimitted degree ?
Thole who revile the Jrcc!) elected officer!
of the government, aim a dagger at the vitalj
of liberty. When the people have eftabliftied
a government and organized its adminiftra.
tion—to make the public fuffrage the signal
for slander and defamation, is but a mifera.
ble compliment to republican principles, and
the public judgment.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED*/ the PORT iJ PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Hannibal, Conyngham, Canton
Luce,
Sch'r Rang»r ;
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, 17/
3 per Cent*, gjs
Deferred, 10J
Full /hares Bank U. S.
TMENT oj STATE, to w,t
DEPA
OFFICIAL information having been received
that the Municipal Officer* of the city of Dun
kirk bave withdrawn the BUOY which marked
entrance into the road of that harbour, no
tice ttiereof irhereby given to >!l matters of vrf
fels of the United States, mariners and others
whom ii may concern. Given under my hand
this 24th day of May, >793*
Ui. JEFFERSON-
Boftua
.t per Cftxt. act v,OBSERVATION S
oo the newly propoftd
CONSTITUTION OK FRANCE.
(from an F.nglijh publication )
THE constitution which has been
framed by the committee ap
pointed for that purpose, has been
treated with difrefpedl, and appears
to be Unking into oblivion. Like
every other scheme which tbiFrench
Legillators have prefemed to their
country, it may please the isolated
observer in his closet, but poflefles
no cementing bond to unite the dis
cordant man! pf human opinion,
prejudice, and pailion. Jneftabli£h
ing an ideal equality, it gives a de
cided superiority to presumptuous
•vice over onafluming integrity ; in
providing for the poor, it tramples
on the rights of the richer clafi'es of
society, and in endeavoring to check
the excefles of arbitrary power,
bursts the bands, of subordination,
and prevents the operation of legis
lative enactments. The organiza
tion of the executive council is in
judicious, and the method of its ap
pointment almost iinpratficable. It
is perhaps one of the most difficult
political problems to ascertain the
modeof veiling a competent portion
of efficient authority in a particular
body, without infringing upon ge
neral freedom. In some countries
it has been effected by creating va
rious artificial ranks in the commu
nity, which inspire submission with
out injuring liberty, and command
refpetft without requiring servility.
As the condiment assembly in the
firft inllance, and the national con
vention in imitation of their exam
ple, refufed to adopt'any projedt of
this nature—it only remained for
them, by imprefling on the minds of
their fellow citizens the clearest pre
ceptions of moral beauty and defor
mity, to denionftratetheneceffity of
Submitting to the laws, and to dis
play the advantages resulting from
obedience.
Inltead, however, of purfuingthis
course, the unbridled licentiousness
of character which pervades ihe ma
jority of the convention, and the
captious jealousy it has entertained
of ministers, nominated by itselF,
mull have difleminated among the
people of France, the opinion that
exemption from all restraint is hap
piness, andtopunifh those who dare
to impose it, is virtue. Another
fundamental error in this plan is the
facility with which it may be alter
ed : the formers of this conftituti
enal code were probably unwilling
to risk the perpetual felicity of their
republic on the ifl'ue of an untried
speculation, and have therefore
delegated to its inhabitants the pow
er of calling a national convention,
in virtue of certain privileges deno
minated rights of cenforlhip ; and
likewise imposed it upon the legis
lative body as an absolute duty, as
ter aoyears to summon a convention
to amend the constitution. Accord
ing to these provisions, the intrinsic
excellence of a government is to be
estimated according to the ease with
which it may be changed r nothing
which is permanent can be ufeful ;
and the reason, philolophy, and
rights, which at present illuminate
the world, are the fleeting ephe
mera of the day—which fluttering
for a moment before the merjdiau
fun, but fink with the (hades of even
ing into forgetfulnef9 and annihila
tion.
City of Washington.
January 7th, 1793.
A NUMBER of I.ots in this City will be of
fered for sale at auflion, by the Commis
sioners, on the 17th day of September next. —
One fourth pan of the purchase money is 10 he
paid down, the residue at three equal annual pay
ments with yearly interefton the whole princi
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk to the Cem'rs.
Extract of an A6l of the General Aflembly of
Maryland, concerning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and the City ot Walhingwo.
" Be it ena&ca, That any foreigner may by
deader zcill, hereafter to be made* take and hold lands
within that part oj theJaid Territory which lies with
in this State, in the fame manner as if he was a citi
zen of this State ; and the fame lands may be con
veyed by him, and tranfmiltcd to and be inherited by*
his heirs or relations, a s if he and they were citizens
of thi\ State : Provided, That no foreigner shall,
in virtue hereof be entitled to any further or other
privilege of a citizen."
J»n. i 9,
THIS DAY K PUBLIsiIID,
By Mathew Carey,
No. 118, Market-Stieet.
Eubillihio with a M A P of the prefrnt
St A T O F WA R,
No. I,
OF A NEW
SYSTEM Of MODERN
GEOGRAPHY:
OR, A
GEOGRAPHICAL, HISTORICAL, AND
COMMERCIAL GRAMMAR;
And Pre fen t State of the Several
KINGDOMS OF THE WORLD.
CONTAIN ING
I. The figures, motions, and diftancrs of the
planets, according to the N'cvvfoman system
and the late ft observe' ons.
11. A general view of the earth coofidered as a
planet ; with several ufeful geographical de
finitions and problems.
111. The grand divisions o? the globe into land
and water, continents and lflands.
IV. The fituat ion and extern of empires, king
doms, flatei, provinces, and colonies.
V. Their climates, air, toil, vegetable produc
tions, metals, minerals, natural curiofitics,
seas, riveis, bays, capes, promontories, and
lakes.
VI. The birds and bcafts peculiar to each coun
try.
VII. Oblervations on the changes that have
been any vrhere observed upon the face of
nature fmce the most early periods ofhiftory.
VII T. The hißory and origin of nations ; rheir
forms of government, religion, laws, itvenues,
taxes, naval and military strength.
IX. The genius, manners, curtoros, and habit*
of the people.
X. Their language, learning, arts, sciences,
manufactures, and commerce.
XI; The chief citics, ftruflures, ruins, and ar
tificial curiosities.
Xtl. The longitude, latitude, bearings, and dif
tancesof principal places from Philadelphia.
TO WHICH ARE ADDED
I. A Geogr ArHiCAL Ino»x, with'the Names,
and places alphabetically arranged.
11. A Table of the Coins of all Nations, and
their Vahie in English Money.
111. A Chronological Table of remark
able Events, from the Creation to the picfent
Time.
By WILLIAM GUTHRIE, Esq.
The Astronomical Part by James Fer-
cuson, F. R. S.
To which have been added,
The late Discoveries of Dr. HERSCHEi 9 and
other eminent Astronomers.
THE FIRST AMERICAN EDITION, CORRECT
ED, IMTr6v tD,At>t>CREATL YEN LA RCRD.
The publijher of this uiori, thankful for the patron
age with which he has, been honored, fuhmrts the
present number to the infpeSlion of his fel/ow-ci
lizens, ani lays before them
The terms of publication
l. This geography (hall be publilhed in for
ty-eight weekly numbers, each containing twen
ty-four pages of letter pref*,
11. course of public*! ion will be de
livered the following maps :
j. The world. 2. Europe. 3. Swedqn,
Denmark, Norway, and Finland. 4. Rufiia.
5, Scotland. 6. England and Wales. 7. Ireland.
8. France. 9. Seven United Provinces. 10. Au.
ftrian and French Netherlands, it. Germany,
12. Switzerland. 13. Poland, tj Spain and
Portugal. 15. Italy. 16. Turkey in Europe.
17. Asia. t& China. 19. Hindoftan 20. Af
rica. 2t. North.America. 22. Britidi Ame
rica. 23. Weft-Indies. 24. South America.
25. Planifpherc of the earth. * 26. Countries
round the north pole. * 27. Dilcoveries made
by Captains Cooke and Clerke. * 28. New-
Hamplhire. *29. MaffichuTetts. * 30. Con
necticut. * 31. Rhode-Island. * 33. Vermont.
*33 New-York. * 31. New-Jerfev. * 35.
Pennsylvania and Delaware. * 36. Maryland.
*37. Virginia. *38. North-Carolina. *39.
South-Carolina. * 40. Georgia. * 41. The
Sphere. * 42. The Copernican system.
N, B. All the maps maiked with stars are
added to this edition, exclusive of those in the
lali London edition.
That no disappointment may arifc from sub
scribers expelling what the publisher neither
promises nor is able to perform, far gives this
early and explicit notice, that of feme of the
States it will be impoflible for him to'give maos
fully accurate, no late surveys having been made ;
and it is hardly neceflary to obrferve, that it falls
not within his plan to go to the exprnfe of sur
veys. But in every instance; he will avail hiin
felf of the bejl materials 'extant: And such cor
refttons and additions as his utinoft exertions
can procure, (halite made.
II I. The geography of the United States is un
dertaken by gentlemen of literary abilities,
who have engaged to give a more full and fa
tisfaffory account of it than any ever publifti
cd. ft will extend to 250 or 300 pages, al
though in the Britifli edition, and even in
that of 1752, it makes only about 30.
IV. Should the work exceed for.y-eight num
bers, the surplus will be delivered gratis to
the fubferibers.
V. The price of each number will be a quarter
dollar, to be paid on delivery.
VI. Such fubferibers as do not choose to receive
the work in numbers, arc to pay three dol
lars at the time of fubferibing.
Thfe printer, anxious to render this work, as
perfect as the nature of it will allow, mod ear
nestly requt ft«, that such gentlemen, throughout
the United States, as have it in their power, will
fijrnifh him with documents for eorre&irig the
past errors in the geography of America, and
for furniftiing a more complete system ot geo
graphy than has yet appeared.
The title page, lift of fnbfcribti Ynamcs, with
the account of the Newtonian system, See. See.
will be given in the 47th and numbers.
iSI. B. The fubferibers, and the public in ge
neral are requeued to consider the following ve
ry material circumftancc—The London quarto
edition is (old here, for fifteen dollais, alihoug'a
412
it contains only ej m*ps an* plate*, «r.* of the
Gco«r»phy of ibe Uoitrd Slates, as has been ob
served a bore, only' about 30 pages—whereas,
Carry's edition will contain 41 mapsaud placet,
aud have 1 wo hundred pages of letter prefe more.
And it need not be observed, that tbe fcventeeo
maps 10 be added, are of more ltnportante to
Americans by far, than riie 25 London ones.
The observation will apply «'i h equal force to
the letter prcfs additions.
The maps will be publiflwd in such order of
fuccefli.m as ihey are engraved, and dire&ions
will be primed for the proper rtunoer of pla
cing them by the bookbinder.
May .8
Albany Glafs-Houfe.
The Proprietors of the Glafs-Manufaclory, under
the Firm of
M'CLALLEN, M'GREGOR and Co.
BEG leave to inform iHe that they have
now brought their WINDOW-GLASS to
such pcrfe£lion, 25 will be found,.on coinparifon,
to be equal, in quality, to the best Loudon
Crown Glass.
Having fixed their piiccs at a lower rate than
imported Glass, they are induced to believe, that
importations of this article will he discontinued,
iu proportion as their works are extended.—
They ptopofe to enlarge the scale of this busi
ness, and as the success of it will depend on the
patriotic fuppoU of the public, they beg leave to
folieit their friendly patronage in the pursuit of
a bianch which will intercft every lover of
American Manufactures.
All orders for of any size,
will be received at the Store of Rhodes and
MacGrecor, No. 234, Queen-street, New-
York, and at the GlaCs Wa r ehouse, No. 48,
Market-ttreet, Albany, which will be pun&ually
attended to.
(pT WANTED, fix smart active LADS, not
exceeding 16 years of age, to be indented as
Apprentices, and regularly iniliu£lcd in the
various branches of Glass Making.
Also, three Window-Glass Makers, to whom
great encouragement will be given.
May'i, I^93*
Post-Road
TO THE GENESEE COUNTRY.
THE public are hereby informed, that the
Post-Road from Philadelphia to Reading,
is continued to Sunbury and Northumberland ;
thence up the Weft Branch of the Sufquehaonah
as far as Licoming; thcnce to the Painted Post
(in New-York (late, near the forks of the Tioga)
thence to Bath (a town laid out on the Coho&on
Branch of the Tioga) thence to Williamfburg,
at the forks of Genefee River.
Letters tor this new route will Tent from
the Philadelphia Pod-Office every Wednesday
morning, at eight o'clock, with the mail lor
Reading.
A weekly mail will aMo be carried from
Bethlehem to Wilfkeftmre, in the county of
Luzerne.
General PoJl-Oj
%cc, April 6, 1793.
VinalPs Arithmetic.
THE Second Edition of this work, with im
provements, will speedily be put 16 pre fa.
The rapid sale of the firft edition*, greatly be
yond the author's mod sanguine expectations,
encourages him to print a second edicion. He
intends to have it printed upon much better pa
per than'the former, and with a new type.
Those Sooktellers who with: to take a num
ber of copies in fhcets, are requested to apply to
the author for particulars.
* i 000 topics
At a meeting of the School Committee*
February sth; 1793.
The Committee, appointed to examine M The
Preceptor's Afliftant, or Student's Guide," being
a systematical treatise of Arithmetic, by John
Vt nal 1, teacher of the Mathematics & Writ
ing, in Bolton, reported, that they have attended
that service, and are of opinion, that the work
is executed with judgment, and is as well calcu
lated for the use of schools, counting houses, and
private families, as any of the fame compass
that has hitherto been offered to the public.
Voted, That the above report be accepted*
and that Mr. Vinali be furnilhcd with a copy
of it, whenever he (hall desire it.
Copy of the Records. Attest,
CHARLES BULFINCH, Sec'rv.
The following charadler of the above work,
is given in the Review of the MaJ'achvJetti Ma
gazine, for Jan. 1793 :
" This is a very ufeful work, and is no ill
proof of thejudgment and industry of the author.
The rules are laid down with propriety, and
the examples annexed are fufficient for their il
lustration. One part ol the work deserves par
ticular commendat-ion. We mean that which
the author fliles " Mercantile Arithmetic." It
occupies a conliderable portion of his book, but
not more than its importance will jullify. We
would recommend to ihe young Arithmetician
to pay a particular attention to this branch.
He will find its principles well explained And
should he make himfelf matter of'them, he will
always have reafoß to acknowledge his obliga
tion to the judicious and laborious author. We
cannot but congratulate the rifntg generation on
account of the many ufeful productions which
have lately appeared ; and In which their im
provement has been principally consulted.
Among those productions we must place this
treatise of Arithmetic. We should be wanting
in justice to the author, [hould we not acknow
ledge that his work is in reality that which its
title imports—The Pr ecevtor's Assistant,
or Student's Guide."
Jufl pubtljhed.
By THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Stone House, No. 4 1, South Second-Street,
A CASE,
Decidcd in tlie Supreme Court of the Ukiteb
States, in which is difcuflfed the £)ueftion,
WHETHER A STATE IS LIABLE TO BE
SUED BY A PRIVATE CITIZEN OF
ANOTHER STATE?
Pries Half a Dollar.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, WalU&reei, J s l tv-YoiK.
THESubfcriber intending to confine hiirfctf
entirely to the PURCH ASE & SALE or
STOCKS on COMMISSION, begs leave to of
fer hitfervtccs to his friends asd others,
line ofa Stack Broker. Those who Mtyplcait
to favor htm with their buftnefs, may depe«4
upon having ittranladed with iheutmoß fidci
lity and dispatch. •-
Orders from Philadelphia, BolW, or » v
othej pari of the United States, will be itrittl*
attended to.
(t.f.)'
In the FEDERAL CITY LCTTF.RT
May be had at SAMUEL v COOPfc*'s J- er .y.'
City of Wajftiington,"
SoM by the Booonms,
DO-BSON, CAREY, & WCfKSJiAKK>
Morse's Geography,
Revi/ed, corrcftcd, and greatly enlarged. u4tk ntm*
additiunal Maps, lucil eng> a ted.
Ir. a few week* will he puhlifticd
Bv THOMAS and ANDREWS, Fauft'sSi«u«>
No. 45, New bury-Street, 80/lon,
In Two Volumis, ta'g* OSava.
ANEW £d!tit>rt of the AMERICAN
G EOGRAPHY: Being' the • large®
and the btft fyftrtji of Ggoc«A.r«r ever pib
lilied : Or a complete of the
WORLD, brought down to ihepjcfenitime.
PART I. - Ol Allronomy, asconneftcd with,
and introductory to the fcrence of 'Gtogisphy :
under this head will be given ail account of t„ c
feverai agronomical fyftcms ol lire Woila, and
a particular defcripiion of thctrueoor. A lahls
ol the diameters, periods, &c. of tbe feverai
Planets in the solar fyftetn—an account of the
Comets and'fiked stars.
■epiaw
Of Gior. r ufr and progiels
figure, magnitude and motion of the Eiirth—,
Doftrioe of the Sphere—Geographical circles
Divilions of the Earth into zones and I'limates
—methods of finding the latitude and'longitude
of places from celellial obfervatioris—Globes,
and their rife—with a number of the moll uft-1
ful and emcrraini-ng Geographical Problems and
Theoiems—Maps, and their ufe—lonrces of heat
and cold---tbeory df(he wind! and tide* — length
ol miles in different countries—"-natural divisions
of the Earth— account of the Giegoriah or new
(Hie, &c.
America—lis discOvery by Columbus
general dcfcrlption tifclhe Continent, in which is
a lengthy difcuflVon of the ouHliOn, When,
whence, and by whom, was America fiift'peo
plcd? Witt) a long and entertaining arcount of
the- fndians,'arid the late on ihe north*
weft ; COB ft, <3^2.—Xor thAm tli J ca—chrono
logical account of its discovery and {ettlcmentj,
its drvifions—Danish A m"£ aiC a, Britrsn
America, U tto Stat tt ttf t\ib*n icA—*
general description oi l he in, ideluding a 'hrtlofy
of the late war, and marrv other ufeful and efc
tertaining matters. So trrH AM erica—its di.
vifroris, partveuiar defcH>U|Qn of its fcveral pro»
vinces and count lies. West India Islands'.
&c.
%* This part of the work witt'be illuftratrd
by maps of the countries defenbed, Irorn the
corre&eft copies.
PART ll.—Containing every thing elTential
which is contained in the best and latest quarto
edition of GuthriVs and other Briiifti Geogra
phies, with fele&ions from celebrated navigai
tors, travellers and lefpe&able authors of other
nations, &c.
Of Eu rope in general—its grand division.%
particular geographical descriptions of itS' seve
ral Kingdoms and Republics, &c. Of Asia—
its situation, boundaries, general history, parti
cular descriptions of its several divifioii's, &c.
Of Africa—its general history, boundaries,
grand divisions, 3cc. Also, new difcovrries,
Terra Incognita, Geographical Table, alphabe
tically arranged—Chronological Table of re
markable events, discoveries and inventions, lift
of men of learning and genius, with other ufeful
mifceUany.
*** This part be illustrated with
m3ps of ihe countries dcfcribrd.
THE Author is sensible that the firft edition
of his American Geography (which makes Pait
I. of the above work) was irt many inftanccs dt
fe&ive, in others erroneous, and in fomeoffen
five. It has been his endeavour, as it was his
desire, in the preffnt edition, to fupplv the defi
ciencies, correct the errors, and meliorate the
ofFcnfive pans of the last. To aflift him in this
business, he has received many valuable commu
nications from the heads of 'departments in the
general government, and from gentlemen of re
fpc6bbility in the several Hates. Thedefcrip
tion of foreign countries (which composes Pait
11. of the above work) has been carefully com
piled from the most approved writers on Geo
graphy, and ufeful information introduced from
the difcovcries of the latest Navigators, Travel
lers, and rcfpc&ablc authors. Indeed, no paini
nor expense have been spared to render this woik
the most complete, accurate, and ufeful of any
ever offered to the public.
f. C. A. A. A. S
A TABLE for receiving and paying GoM—
graduated according to Law—Blank Manifefts—
And Blanks for the various Powers of Attorney
ncceflary in traivfa&ing Bufuu fs at the Treafuiy
or Bank of the the United States.
(£3" The price of this Gazette is Three Dollars
per anuv.tr,—One haff to be paid at the time of Jut
fcribin^,
(pT Wanted to compleat files of this Gazette rtuiv
bcr< 79 and 80—Six pence each toil) be paid by the
Editor Jor a fezu ofithnje numbers.
LEONARD BLEECKER,
TICKETS
P L AN' S
IN TWO PAR TS.
The General Contents are—i
TO THE PUBLIC
TO BE SOLD RY THE EDITOR,