A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATI'RDAYS JUHN FtlftSQ, No. 34, NORTH FIFTH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA.
[No. 124 Gf Vol. IV.]
tMu Tftt HAIL.
The importance of the tufinejs agitated at the life j
facial feffioh of the Ciicuit C&tfrt in this city %Wv
ing induced the Editor to apply to a gtrxhman of
the bur* who attended the Court, for <a Jlaiement of
it—he has an opportunity of faying before the pub
lic the following fictch oj the proceedings, which
as far as it goes rhiy be deemed accurate.
AT a special Circuit Court of the United
States, held at Philadelphia, July 22d.
(fcdetfo Henfield, was indited for having ert
tsred on board the French privateer called
tlie Citizen Genet, commifljoned to cruise a
gai 11ft certain powers with whom the United
States are at peace—and having with others
on bnard the said privateer taken a prize a
B-itiftt veiTel called the William, his
duty as a citizen and" in habitant of tlie Unitsd
Srates, against the treaties existing between
the United States and the United Nether
lands, Prufiia and Great-Bntaiiiy and again ft
ftje law of nations, &c.
To tins he pleaded not gti'lty, and flfctrtil
#ft?h:s important iflue came on last Fnttey,
the 26ih July.
Jjp appeared inevidence that Gideon Hen
field, was a citizen of the United States, and
that his family resided ih Salem, Maflachufetts
—being a fea-faring man he hdtdf been absent
from them fo-.ne time, and about the firft of
May last, being then at Charleston, SoutH-
Carolina, and desirous of coining to Phila
4e.l|i>lia, he applied to the matter of a packet,
who ifked him more for his passage than he
Could arford to pay, whereupon he entered on
boa d the Citizen Genet, a French privateer,
connn'ilioned by the French Republic, and
commanded by Pierre Johannene. That
Ca ;t. J iha-inene proaiifed him the birth of
p zi mailer on board the nrft prize they
ibbuM capture, and the fliip William, belong
ing to Britith fu'oj■;&< having been taptu'red
ai) »ut the 5 hot' May, he was put on board
her as p Ka master, with another person, and
arrived in mat capacity at Philadelphia.
It appeared that on his examination before
the inagiftrate he profefled himfelf an Ame
4i6an, tnat a, inch he would d'<e, and there
fore could not be ftippoferi likely so intend any
tiling fiber declared that if he
had known it to be contra y to the Prcfident*s
proclamation, or even the wishes of the Pre
iklent, for waom be had the g eateft refpe«st,
he would not have entered on board. About
4 mfouth afterwards being again before the
. flt ne magistrate, he declared that he had ef
j)ouied tlie cause of France* that he now con
sidered himfelf as a Frenchman, apd meant
to mrve his family within their dominions.
The attorney of the diftritt, aflifted by the
attorney-general of the XJaited States, con
ducted the prosecution.
Messieurs Du Ponceau, Ingerfoll and Ser
geant, appeared in the defence.
Alter the arguments .were closed, Judge
Wilson delivered a charge to the jury, in sub
stance as fallows :
This is, gentlemen of the cafe of
the firft importance—upon your verdict the
in fiere ft s of four millions of your fellow-citi
zens may be said to depend—But whatever
be the consequences, it is your duty, it.is our
duty, to do only what is right." . v .
He then (fated the lubftance 6f -thle charges
against the defendant, and piocccdcd
It has not been contended on the pre Tent
occasion, that the defendant has any peculiar
or exclusive right to take a part in
war between the European powers, in dela
tion to all of whom tse United Stages "aie in
■41 Ante of perfect peace and neutrality.
If he has no peculiar nor ejtcjofive right,
it naturalty follows that what he may do, eve
ry other citizen of the United States piayall'o
do—lf one citizen of the United States m>*y
takfe a part in tlie present war, ten tootffafid
may—lf they may take part on one lide, they *
may on the other, and thus. thoAfeiidsr" of*otjr
fellow-citizens may atibciate With •
diflfercnt belligerent powers, defti
only those with whom we have no hoftiiity,
but destroying each other. In fuchacaie can
we expect peace ahiong their friends wHo
behind ? and will not a ciwl war frith all its
lamentable train of evils herhenatunil effedt ?
Yet what is right unAe done, *Mrdeipen
dent of the consequences which I. have .oiily
itated, in order to lay before you the vn?celli
ty of seriously considering the cafe entmftejd
so you, before you decide upo» it. • • "
Two principal questions of fa<ft arifsn
and lequire your determinatioti.
The firft is, that the defendant) Gideon
Henfield, has conrmittted all ast of hostility
against ihe of a power with whom
t'ae United States are at peace ; this has been
clearly eflablidied by the testimony. The
second object of enquiry, is whether at that
time Gideon Henfield was a citizen of the
United States. This he explicitly acknow
ledged to Mr. Baker, and if lie declared true,
it was at that time the leatt of bis thoughts
to expatriate himfelf.
The question of law coming into joint con
sideration with the fa&s; it is the duty of
the court to explain the law to the jnry, and
and give it to them in direction.
Wednesday, August 7, 1795-
It i*' thd joint a«d unstoiwWsfJKnMrt*
court, thit the Ufiited4»tst»j b»Wif « » ftiflfe
of neotralitv, relative to the prefeut war, f|;e,
aetsof hoftHity committed by Gideon lien
field, \+&re an olfeoce again# this country,
and punifliable by the laws of this countrv.
It has been a&ed by his conniel i?» their
address to p&li. a gain It' Wfiat law has he oi
fended ? The answer i<s again# many laws,
binding laws. As a citizen ol the United
States, he was bound to ast no part which
coufd injure the nation, he was bound to keep
tfttf peacte in Regard to all nations, with whom
we are I'.i peace. This vs the law of nations,
not an cxpofl fact* law* but a law which was
iti exileenCe long before Gideon Henfield ex
ifted. There are also positive laws exiting
previous to the offence committed, and ex
pressly decfarfcdf to be part of the supreme
Of the Tand. The conffitition- of tft'e
Uftited State* ha* declared that all
made or to be made, under the authority < i
the United States, lhal! be part ot the ffc
preme law of the land. I will Hate *<> you
gentlemen, so much of the several treaties in
force b&tWetfiY America, ami" any of the pow
ers at War with France, as applies to the
pre Tent cafe.
The firft article of the treaty with the
United Netherlands declares that there lha'l
be a firm, inviolable and umverfal peace, and
i! nee re friendfhip between the States General
6f the United Netherlands and the United
States of .1 nerica, and between the fnbject's
and inhabitants of the said parties.
.The seventh article ot the dt feiitive treaty
of peace between the United States and
Great-Britain declares that there shall be a
frrin and perpetual peace bfetwetfn his
Majertv ants the United States, and betvs'ten
the fubje«>s of the one and the citiaefls of the
other.
And the fivft article of the treaty with
PruflTa declares that there fliall be a firm, in
violable and univeilal peace and Si net re
friendship between his Majesty tte King of
Prulfia,' and his fubjefts on the one part, ard
the United States of America and their citi
zens on the other.
11 may be obleryed that the treaty would
not be less fufficient in relation to the present
qu:2ion lit" " fuhjects" and " citizens" had
nrft been Mentioned.
Thele treaties were irt the niofl 1 public, ttie
ntoft notorious eniffer.ee befoie the ast for
which the prisoner is indi&cd was committed.
Tiie notoriety may indeed be said to. have
been greater than that of the general a&s of
CongrefS|.fince besides the fanM mode of (pub
lication, they are exprtfkly referred to in tbe
Conftifirtiort.
Much h& bern fati On this OCCaficlii by the
defendant's cOtanfel, irt support of the naturil.
rijht of emigration, but little of it is truly
applicable to the prarent queilioil.
JitmSratii'ii is undoubtedly one of tfie na
tural rights of man. Yet it does not follow
stum thence that every ais intfonflAent wirt
the du.ty, it inConlUtent with tbi Site of a.
citizen.
Nothing is inore incocififtent with the duty
of a citizeo than treafoM ; but it is Ijecaufc
he lllfl continues a cit.ien.tjiat lie is liable to
puftifflhient.
AfgrTOflie other obfervationj explanatory
of th? legal princip es which ha r d been agita
ted in tl.e course of the tiial, ttie judge con
c ! uiied by remarking that the jury in a gene
ral verdict must decide, both li» and fact, but
itfcat this did not authoflft? therm to decide it
as ffiey pleased ; thfcy were as much bound
to decide by law as the judges—tbe responsi
bility .w'as equal upon both.
The jury reti ed about nine on Saturday
evening," and came, into court again about
half pass If, when they infomed the court
they ttad not agreed, fhey were desired to
retire again, which thet did, aind returned on
Monday morning, hav ing delivered into the
hands of Jiidge Wilfou ij privy verdict 011 Sun
day .morning, toon at'tef the adjournment of
the,court-- \ ]
One of the jnrvmehinow ejcprefTed Some
doubt's, which occili'itietf the judges Separately
tt> deliver their iejltimeiits un the points of
law, adverted t» in,tbe i charge 011 Saturday
evening, particularly a< to tlie change of po
litical relation in the d.-feudant, trom his
having -heeii lume tim<i abfert from home,
previous to his entering' on board tlie priva
teer,-which was mentioned by another of
the jury.
Tr-ejury again retired 1 , and the court again
adjourned. At half past four tbe court again
met, and tlie jury prelented a written ver
dict, which the court refufed to receive, as
being neither geueral nor Special.
Another adjournment took place, and
about seven, a verdict of not guilty, was de
livered.
At the fame court two bills were found
a gain It Joepli Ravara, ESq. consul from Ge
noa to the United States.
His coun'el, Meffr*. Ltwis, Serjeant, Heat-
Ij and Dallas, moved to qiiafh tlie indiftnient,
for want of jurifdiftioti in the court, when a
eonful ,for a foreign power was defendant,
a Hedging that in that cafe the ftipreuie court
403
"Wft flatter *n SoM p!e»- The rtfottsn •
; ntted^.and a-frfsa.batring l**n after■>
i warif put in, toflta!i»in» the fa«ie It
rfwei ved the fame fate-
Mr. Ravjita then traverltd tfie bill to flie
next session. ,
Several merchants, atrents or consignee* of
Brihffll and French veflek, w* presented bv
the grand ju r y, for having fu r nilhed arms f-nd
Oli'itarv ftiires for fnch'veflfel*, in the port ot
Philadelphia, to be employed in hostile man.
per against powers with wlion* the United
States are at peace
On Monda* "most of" the persons imfcAed
appeared in court, and entered into recog
nizances, and Come of thenv traversing thair
bills to the next (efflons, the attorney of t fee
diftridl continued the remainder till the fame
tiih?.
John Singeltary, who was indiftcd for the
iameoflence with that of Gideon Henfield,
not a-ppearing his recognizance, was forfeits
ed, and relpited till next Session.
for the gazette.
tan. Fit k.o,
THC writer under tie fignatnre of " Phi
lanthropy,vho fiirntflted t!>e article in
vnnr Gazette of tlie 241 th instant, on the
j<?ft of the Borough of Eafton, has afl'umed a
title which but- illy corresponds with tlie Spirit
01 tendency of his publication; for, whatever
humour there may be in it, there is certainly
not a sprinkling either of good nature or good
manne/s. Otherwise, he w6nld not have in
voked in the fame stupid jest tlie Negro and
a rsfpeclable Citizen, valuable in hi-; Nation,
as a member of forietv, whole urlfan'ty of
disposition. it I mistake not, has induced many
acts of politencfs and hoSpitafity to the author
oftfiat piece; but where is the wit who will
not Sacrifice his friend to his joke ?
Me has, however, meditated a more seri
ous and ineXcusable injury, when he bai made
an entire community the ohjeft of his far
calms, and when fie has wantonly endeavored
to Check the growing prosperity of a town,
which, if Me, fhouid rather be encouraged
depre.'fed j hut which, 011 the contrary,
he knows to polfefs great natural advantages,
to be the nii't for the produce of an exrer.five
cau&try, to be already comparatively popu
lous and wealthy, and to be daily and rapidly
intreafing, *s well in population, as in manu
faffurfrs and tnrrprove inert ti of every kind.—
When he Vouched for the authenticity of the
information he grtfe' you, he (Wtild not have
involved the whtjle focietv in the guilt of a
few malic-ion* and iriligriifrcant individuals.
He should have told you that the disgraceful
burtiiOfs he mention*, originated in tlie ma
lignity of a pet ulsnt yonng man, who had been
obtruded upon this town as a juftiee of the
peace, contrary to the general with ; that it
was conducted with profound secrecy, and
was Supported by the inftr»mentality of a few
persons, either too young to reflect, or too
ignorant to judge for them elv»s; that the
ltroke was llruck before it was even fuSpeft
ed ; and that therefore, there was neither
" seal nor spirt" of exertion at the election,
which was too unimportant in its object to
excite general attention, and from that rcaSon
only could have fumilhed the occaGon which
has called forth the humour of your PhiUn-
Ihrcpijl. And above all, instead of averting
the contrary, he Ihou'.d have told you, that
such an outrage 011 decency failed of its pur
pose, and that a very reputable inhabitant
was ilul v retu ned and qualified to the execu
tion of his office.
An Inhabitant or Easton
£if:on, Jul) 28,1793-
FROM EDMS' (BOSTON) CAiETIE.
At a lej.il mtttihg of the Freeholder* Jrtd Otfiet
Inhabitaniiot ihe Towu of Bofloh, atFancoil
Hall, July 26, 1793.
WHEREAS it lias been published in the
CeUtitiel ui the 241b instant, Thai it Was atfened
in a Merchant's Meeting, thai it
known bv the inhabitants of this town, that
within two or thirc day» from that time, priva.
tecis had been fitted out armed, and had filled
Irom this port; lhat olhtri weie now fitting out,
f-me manned, and to be manned partly i>y
Frenchmen,and panl> by Citizens of the United
States And whereas the inhabitants ot this
town feel concerned in said pub
lication : Tl.ey herch ire! ate, in town.meeting
1 legally aiTcmhlt-d, that theie was no just founda
tion for the alTertion ; but that the cifpoliiion of
the citizens of Boston, is entirely in favor of
obfervingthe rules of a ftrifl neutrality refptft
ing the powers at war in Europe.
Atccft, Wm. COQPER,Town-CUtk.
The French privateer which failed from this
pott left Mtuiday St'nnight, nturncd on Thurs
day, and has landed her (loici, it is Said, by or
der of the French Couful.
[Qu e it c—Whether the Jaft article it designed as
a coh(rad id ton to the fiiU, or not F]
[Whole No. 446.]
FOR THE GAZETTE.
Mr. Ktvfo,
Pleufrlo Itc fdlOutiafMpttft inycvr Gentle,
ami obhgc w>i<r Ft tn7o-l nwnj
Virginia, 27ibJ»ly, • 793-
AT a mertlng of Citizens, fiar ove ' County,
Virginia, the Principal, Artic'es, Regulati
ons and Circular Letter of the Democratic
Suciety, at Philadelphia, bsringbeea read and
con fide red—
Rcfolvcd uvtinimfiujlv, That the following let
ter he addrefied lo David Ktttsnhojvse, Elq.
and others, members of that Society.
Fellow Citizen t y
THE principles recognized by your focety
being among tbofe on which our free and
happy Const .tution is founded, no true Re
publican will hesitate to fub'cfibe to them.
We join you also most cordially in opinion,
that at this crisis it is more particulaily the
dutv of every individual to use his otmuft ef
forts to remove the prejudices and conciliate,
the atfe&ions of all our tallow citizens; and
that, to obtain the<e most deferable objects, it
tie love's all to cultivate on all occafiom
pea£e, order, harmony and atiay menl to the Con
flitution ; and, hav ng-the general weitare only
iu view, fedu otiflv to avoid fven the appear
ance of party diftin&ions. But we cannpt
refrain, fellow citizens, from enpif ffims M»r
apprebenfions rhat po'irical tocieties,branched
out and alTuming powers to the extent you re%
commend, may, however pure and well iiv
fentioned in their commencement, be per
verted into clubs of fiction, as has been too
often experienced, and terminate at length
icrCourts of tnquifitian. We apprehend that a
dread at lead of such coufeqnences will at any
rate e*cite heart-burning t and Jiffcritions—i-xXaX
precursors of Anarchy, and its invariable fol
io We r—Dijptftifn.
We are happv in the con vision t hat the
citizens of the United Stares, who of their
own free choice have adopted theCouftitnriou
under which we enjoy Peace»- hb rty and Jr.de
pevdence, are fully competent, by the modes
pre limbed by that Conlttrntion, to correct the
abuses which may and will, from time to t m<,
ceep into this and all other human ifiJiirtiVat/u
We are happy also in the conviction, that the
citizens of our fee independent Republic can,
without being driven to the necefllty of fonv*-
ing themselves into fociet es or parties (pro
per at certain times for Jubjefts of n&htrthical
ami ilefboti'c £;oVernrnentr, where the corre<stiow
, exf abufeJ or change of public men cannot
othftrwife be brought about) approve and «*id
those whole valor, virtue and patriotism, con.
ttibuted to procure and continue to pi el rVe
to lis t're bteffings of Peace, Librrtx and ludepeti
dence, and can by cOnJlitutioit a J modti tbo, dMcoun
tenoiVce or pnhifli their public ffcrvanti of a
contrary description, and change the whole
fyftfm of government, when they judge it
proper to do so.
We are more particularly aver r e at this
time to the appearar.ee of party difti ft ions,
which too often end in civil difTentions, being
deepfv affected by the horrid maflacres and
devastations recently experienced by our in
ftilar friends, with whom we sincerely sympa
thize 011 the melancholy occasion We depre
cate the like dreadful calamities, which will
inevitably delude our common country,
pa r ty differences fever the fraternal ba* d and
diflolve the Union—that barrier wh ch alone
can fa<fre us from the miseries of civil discord,
and its certain domina
tion. it M Union ulone that can continue to us
the peace and honors of an Independent, and the
happiness oj a Republican Govtrnmtnt.
We are, with great refpeft,
Your Fellow-Citizens.
FROM THE FEDERAL GAZETTE.
Mr. Bkowi), ~
Perhaps It will be ofefut to yofcr fellow etfl
ue ns, to be informed of the folio wing firftion
of a Treaty between France vid England,
you are theiefore requested to pufelUk it la
your paper.
»6th Article of the Treaty of Commere"
and Navigation between his Britannic M#*
jjfty and the mnft Christian King,, signed tjt
Versailles the 26th September, 1 jßj.
It Thai) not be lawful tor any privateers,
not being fubjefts of either crown, who have
commifEons from any other Prince or State,
in enmity with either nation, to arm their
(hips in the ports of either of the said-two
kingdoms, to fell what they have taken, or in
any other manner whatever to exchange the
fame; neither (hall they be allowed even to
purchase viftualj, except such as (hall be tie
ceflaty for their going to the nearest port of
that Prince from whom they have obtained
commiflions.
THE ID ITOtt
MOST caintjH) refHtJk;i/nfc of kit di/kni Suf*
fcriben who are t* ttr'ttart J»r iht Gsfth, t* wttl
payment ai fwn at poJMe.—Tkfijt pttfma tah4 hate
receivedfaijmptitm m*ft(ytnhis are defred
to remit the Jam. Tic tfreeragl*far tit
have accumulated U * feritus <jWI* , *'
they are ike only t<f**tce to difeinrge tai Ariuif
engagements incarrt4 i* 'fkefrabcutm tfjfii M
ft*jptj*Hiahtn. ftpMetphja, ] woe a*.'CONTINUATION OF
Foreign Intelligence,
BY 1 Hi: HRU IsH p-.li Aa.
National Convention of France,
iMat '50. " v *
RIOTS *H TH£ Ce#tt?ro*.
1i" ft *rrtfc?v*rtTvn tfrVr fcceffi fy of fat
iVA. he (aid,
'il« f .lUmt ohti tbifftf
tttrmuriki ; and inncl»at* was itl'ed-i" order
to .m<7e<pt<JTaljte citizens out of
thrill. •
A tumult now ensued in the gatlerie*; but
the-CoMvenrion having at length decreed,that
•she delinquents ibouid be tent to prifoit, a
momentary culm was vectored.
>1. Vcrgriiauil observed that it was impof-
fibie the republic could .Hand without a con-
A 1 tut ion- paving moved to punifli t!»e men
and women w:u*hits from the galleries, a vi
olent uproar took place, in the eouHe of
tte last Speaker was sccufcd by M Du
lieni of be ug one ot Dninourier's accomplice?,,
and by M. Davd of being an aftuftin.
Oo this the Convention paflcd a decree re-
JJrfijiandfng tV.e Tatter as a calumniator.
2 (l TI'C royal tygers leafttitd
and Pitt, Cobourg -and Du
rtioot ter, v.'illit<l for nothing better than that
fheffe foft t>f debates Ihau'dbrpennitftri. It is
* wjfli trt perfyet .iat? our anarchy # and
their vifto' ie< more Those ri-
atons men are the affafltot employed by to-
reigfl' powers, the agents of Pitt and Cobourg,
the a<rc":iijrf ces of D'Jtnourier ; they will nor
•Aider u9 to forrri onr fcnnftitution, or repair
our finances for the flip port of the war.
These men prevent us every day fnun dif
cetffbg a f*jngJe queltion. £ IVturmurs, and a
cry fi»r th? nrd?r "of The dayj Citizen-, you
hive foMnidal/le enemies to overcome ; De r
po-tifm attack* t! e Republic from without,
arid Anarchy within We cannot ourfrlves
contend with the fir'fl—our have battalion 1 ;
are employed in that charge; but we will
combat with the last, body to body. It is pur
duty, Our battalions (h-d their blood in
fighting tyrants—let uc Hied out sin vanquiiii
iug anarchy.
*' I move that an extraordinary. convoca
tion of the feftions be fumtnoncd for to-moi
row night, and that this day's proceedings be
font to thein ; that an additional guard Jhcjuld
» be demanded of them for tfce regu
lar ty ar.d defending the members of the Lon
veution.
Referred to the committee ofiegiflation.
May 13.
Plots *gataft the Convention
Deputies from the fedtion of Fraternity aj*-
peured at the bar, in order to denounce certain
plots formed again ft the liberty and the liyes of
their 1 eprefentativi s.
They began by reading the following extract
from their register
The commiflioners charged by the general
assembly of the fc & ion to examine fnto the proofs
plots formed against the public fu'ety, report
that the revolutionary committee of their fe&i
vn have declared to them that in the aflembly
held on Sunday and Monday Lift, at the mayor's
house, it had been agitated to make another
10th of August bufmefs, which should be sol«
lowed by another like the 3d of September: that
011 the day appointed 22 members of the Con
vention fliould have their throats cut, and be
afterwards thrown into the Seine, and it fhou'd
be Reported that they had emigrated. The ma
yor had opposed these measures; and fa id, if
iuch queftionswere agitaftd, he would adjourn
• che fitting.
" Legifl.itors (adcls the deputation) ! in the
name of France, and out of refpe& to yourselves,
do not fuffsr such conspiracies to pass any long-
•er unpunished. Rely 011 the energy of gOod ci
• tizens. If your measures are timid, the fadti
oiis will grow more bold. You yourselves will
be destroyed.
* " We will talce no new oath, but we will be
ikafwerabte to you, our t« prefentatives." [Ap
plauded ]
Several members moved that the mayor of
>P»d«be brdered to the bar.
-Marat accused Dtifiiche Valaze of a plot; but
the other produced fomc papers alluded to, by
-which it appeared, that Marat's suspicions were
founded-on circular letters, requiring a full at
tendance of the members ef the Convention.
May 24.
Measures of General Safety,
In consequence of the report from the extra
ordinary committee of twelve; the Convention
decreed as follows:
Art. 1. The National Convention places the
public property, the reprefenratives of the nati
on, and the city of Paris, under the prote&ion
of nil good citizens.
11. Every cittzen of Paris lhall immediately
repair to the place of general meeting belonging
to his department.
111. The captains {hall take an account of all
the armed men in their companies, as well as of
aIJ absentees.
" IV. The guard of the National Convention
ftiall be reinforced by two men'from each com
pany—no cirizen can employ a deputy uniefshe
puhljc fun&ionary, employed in the public
department-!, or lick, which must be properly
aythenticated.
V. Every citizen lhall at all times be ready to
a& when called on.
VI. Until some general commandant is nam
ed over the armed force of Paris, the oldest offi
cer fliall do his duty .
VII. The iittiijgs of the fe<slions shall
not he permitted afcer ten o'clock at night.
Vlfl- No it ranger fliall be admitted to the
deliberations of any of she fe&ions to which he
does not belong.
IX. When any of thefeAions wish to confer
with each other, it fliaii ouiy lie doue at it flit vy
ing a proper authority from the president iioi it.
X. The National Convention ci gei the
committee of twelve to oontider ot f n.e fime
diatc pi*n for. the pr«fcrvation of public tran
quility, '
• XI The pre fen c decree (hall be immediately
proclaimed through every fecti^n.
On Moiitiay, May 13, Condorcet obfrrved,
that it wa-in vain to diifemble any logger the
clangers of the republic, the fall of whicb was
threatened by an union of fanaticifm and arif-
The nation had demanded a consti
tution, as the sole remedy of these etib; and
an efficacious one it promised to be. But this
was not all, and he therefore (hould to
Ins colleague , not immediately to name fijeeef
fors, biit to fix an epoch when, provided their
constitutional labours ftiould not be as yet ter
minaced, the nation might proceed to the choice'
of new mandatories, and be fatisfied that the
powers of the prcfent ones were not to be-per
petual.
He ftiould therefore propose, in the form of
a decree,
h Tliat, provided the prinjafy aflenmties
Jhould Hct before that time-lie convoked, to ac
cept cm' refufe the constitution which m to be
prcfented to the people, they are and remain
convoked for the firft of the enftiitig November
tfrrfecl a vew convention. ' '
2, The new convention shall be elected in 'j
the fame forms, and conformably to the regula- j
tions prescribed by the ad: of the legiflitjve bo- .
dy dated iA August 1792J
3, Should a new convention be then necessary
it ihall meet on the ijth of I)ec. next. ' ■ |
) Gen. Sanurre appeared at the bar, and made
this addrufs :
We are ready to set rut for Jji Vendee;
and to-morrow and the enfuimr days, ia or 14
thouland men will set out; We have 80 guns, _
and abundance of, ammunition.-
"To make our fucjeltes more certain I pro
pose ro you to decree,
ifl. " To all the battalions of volunteers |
who ard rot infcnbed, an experienced officer J
shall be annexed. '
idly. u All the - citizen* of Paris wh'> have
«*iufkefs, (ball so those
who 4 are tofetout. mmifte« shall re
coThoenfe them by fufils to be repaired Jot that
piirpofe.
3 Jly. ** Santera is authorised to communi
cate to two member- of the committee of pub
lic fafety ?l th. means he has devjfed for the acti
vity of the for vice of the artillery.
4 r h!y, •• The war minifler (hall have at his
-disposal fix hundred thousand livres f r the re
pair of the fnfils, and five hundred thousand
for the execution of the preceding article."
The general concluded by Juggefling, that.
'* After the ccrunter-revoluiionifts (hall have I
been fubdtied, an hundred thousand men may \
readily make a descent on England, there to
proclaim an appeal to the English People on
the prc sent war."
Referred to the committee of public fafety.
Choudieu, a deputy, in a letter from Angers
dated the nth in ft. stated, that since the tak
ing of Thouars by the insurgents, further
progress had been made by them. Had they
inflantly advanced, the city of Samaur must
have fallen into their hands, for the panic was
general, and had evtn communicated itfelf to
the battalion of Rofental.
Barrtre announced that the executive coun
cil, con f ormable to the wish of the so diers of
the northern army, had appointed over them
General Cuftine. Houchard was to have the
provifidival command of the armies of the
Rhine and Moselle.
May' 25.
A decree was pafied relative to an exchange
of prisoners.
Lcguinis demanded to be heard.—" It is high
time the Convention should purge the Republic
of the remnants of Royalty which reside among
them. Four Representatives of the people are
worth all the Kings in Christendom. I there
fore move, that the prisoners in the Temple be
offered in exchange for the four Convention De
puties. Hostages wiil not give force to our
arms; —it is courage alone which can make us
triumph "
Roux opposed the motion- " It di (honours
the courage of our Colleagues, who would wil
lingly bleed in the service of their country."
After some debate the Convention pafled to
the Order of the Day.
Pelc denounced the Minister of War.
Genifiieux demanded a more vigorous and
ext. nfive decree on this fubje<sti " All the
Minillers (said ho), except h m for the Home
Department, refufe to obey the orders of the
Convention. I move for the removal of all the
Ministers."
Marat said, that the proposition of G.eniflieux
had no other view than to get himfelf tle&ed to
the Prcfident's Chair. All the misfortunes of
the Republic originate from this cause—that e
very man of abilities is bribed by foreign gold.
He here paid some compliments to his own par
ty. and said, they are all incorruptible men, who
disdained gold—the whole Executive Council
are the accomplices of Dumourier.
The investigation of the eharges against the
Ministry was refered to the Committee of Pub
lic Safety.
A Deputation from the Council General of
the Commons of Paris appeared at the bar. it
declared, that the imminent danger of the coun
try had made the Council consider it to be their
duty to declare itfelf permanent. It demanded,
that the charge of plots against the lives of the
National Deputies should be signed, and deli
vered to the Revolutionary Tribunal, so that
the culpable or calumniators, should be amena
ble to the laws. It was demanded that the sen
tence of Herbert, a Member of the Commons,
now in th« Abbey prison, should be immediate,
so that he mi«jht be quitted.or condemned.
494
The Prclident replied, " Justice thall be fpee-
I declare thati/ t c city
I ai (hps Mti igsinft any cum
HAGUE, May 20.
The chief* of tlie counter-revo'u
tioniils keep all the volunteers ami
fend ihe peasants to their homes—
the lauer (wear ro maintain the
Christian religion, afier which they
receive a discharge in t he follow ing
terms :—" I permit —to retire,
iipmi having taken the oath to re
main true to Louis the XVIIth, 10
the French monarchy, and never to
carry arms againit the Chrillian re
ligion."
M O N s, May 27
The head 'quart ers of the Prince
ctf Saxe-Cobourg are at Schnurg and
Jala in. Those of- the Duke of York
are at Famars ; and General Count
de Clairfayt, who has the Prufiiaus
with hitn, has ertablifhed his head
quarters ar Hafnon and Aubry.
Valenciennes is not only . ent irrly
blockaded, but our advanced polls
are nearly on the glacis'of Qiiefhoy.
The preparatory works for the
fiege<of Valenciennes are pursued
with the greaieft activity. The
bombardment will commence about
the clo-fe of the week, and the city
will be reduced to athes, provided
,_the jTH'i'ifoh Ihould not ha«e the
good sense to capitulate sooner.
The wound of Col. Mark is not
dangerous.
she tomb of General Datnpierre
iis.iH the midst of the camji of' Fa-,
mars
li fronts with the sol-
Jowing infcriprions—On the fide of
Mons, M He traitois ; he
loved his country." On the fide of
Vtlenciennes, " Ffis virtues afliire
to- him intnortality and 011 the
fide of Paris, " Soldiers of liberty,
French republicans, he was to you"
a rare example <>f valor and ciwifin."
"I"he suburbs of Valeiciennes are
on fx e ; that of Marli is altogether
confirmed,
COBLENTZ, May 25.
General Bourtionville and his four
fellow prisoners arrived here iaft
night fro,in Maellricht, and were
immediately lodged in the prisons
of the fdrtrefs of Ehrenhrietfiein.
BRUSSELS, May
Our governinenr feeins 110 longer
difpoftii to affoiil an afylurci 10 1 lie
French officers who deserted with
Dumourier ; and it has ordered
Gen. Valence to depart the Low
(Countries immediately. He /null
be by this time in London. He is'
one of those wretched friends to the
Kfen'ch Revolution, who have put
on the nialk of hypoerify in conf'e
qnence of the Austrian • fuccefles.
Creature of the Di'ike of Orleans,
he has abandoned him ; fubje<ft of
Louis XVI, and loaded with his fa-
tie has borne arms for the pro
tection of that unionunate tuo
■flitch's atLiffins, and left them but
when he thought their affairs def
"perare. Dumourier is arrived 10
piirfue the fame Coirrfe. This po
litical Proteus, this unprincipled
an.d immoral man, is without doubt
going with his friend to increase
the parry of the Republico constitu
tional Smith, ci-devant Ferigord,
who makes conllitutityfts in London,
and dill follows his profeffion of
iluck jobbing. Your government
miift needs be very patient thus to
protect thele turbulent and danger-
Otis me,n, who ha-\e ruined their ou n
country for the sole pleasure of
making a noise and filiating their
1 uft of gold.
LONDON, June 4.
Lord Hood, with the lail division
of 1 lie fleet forihe Mediterranean;
failed From England the latter cud
Admiral Lord Hood having failed
with a large neet to reiui'orce the
(hips already in the Mediterranean,
we are informed a del'cent is to be
attempted on the lilind of Corsica,
where the celebrated Pal'ehal Paoli
is at the head of a body of the in
habitants to co-operate in pieafnres
for securing the ci>nqneli of the
coancrj>'—Should it prove fuccefsful.
General Psoli, h is laid, will be 4j>v
painted Vice Koy.
General Dumourier is-hourly ex
pected in England. Mis friend V*
jence is ai Bai h.
B> ihe capture of Tobago, the
. Marqiiis de Bonnie is reitored to
his large properly in that liland,
and » the- Nki ional Coi'veiiiion
had ived him of'.
The circuinlt.incfS of Genera!
Dajnpien e's death, on rtie Bth ult.
are tlius related to its by an officer
who was on the spot, but is lince
arrived in Jinglind.
Dampiene himfelf wrt.nwin the
engagement with the allied anmes,
when he was killed. "The General
hearing that the British Guards bad
advanced to the a fli fiance «f the
PrufTians, had a defiie to fee how
his troops would ir>6et the Englifii
for the fir ft time ill a general en
gigein*m. He accordingly was
tiding down a hill, accompanied by
some of his officers, when he
was espied l»y some of our troops,
who knew him to be some perfoa
of tank by his retinue. A cannon
ball was aimed at him,which knock
ed liitn off his horse, and be died in
coniequence.
Mr. Pitt was in the chair at the
Dinner given by the Elder Brethren
of the Trinity House 011 Monday.
Amongd the many excellent l oads
drank upon that occasion, the fol
lowing, given by the Chairman,
was received with the nioft heart
felt and reiterated acclamation:
" May we ever keep froin our
Hearts, French Principles & French
Daggers !"
Immediately on the acquittal of
the French General Miranda, the
populace placed on his head a Civic
Crown,and carried him triumphant
ly to his Hotel, in the suburb St.
Germain—a striking proof that the
J tcnbins, lii's acculers and perfect!-
tors, have now little influence left
at Paris.
The combined army is not only
ii) .polleflion of the fti ong camp of
Fainars, fnrronndrd by inimenfe re
doubts, but of several villages round
Valenciennes, of which city and for-.'
ii el's they have a fine view front the.
high,ground which they occupy.
JL-ne 8
It is understood to be the wifli of
vlr. Fox's friends, 10 raif'e a iimi
O'fficieht ro enable them lo purchale
Vr that gentleman an annuity of
;0001. .for life—to discharge his
;lebts, which are foniewhere aliouc
10,0001. — and ro pay him oneyear's
annuity in advance. Mr. Coke,
Mr. Lainbton, and Mr. Wharton
give 30001. each—34,oool. had been
paid on Thtirfday morning, and
there were names for very large
funis to be produced immediately.
NA N rz.—The abfuixl reports and
(fcaieineiits refpetftingj the forrender
ofihis place, and the (laughter made
there by the Royalilts, are contra
diifted by the recent arrival of M-r.
Gflodall, who has brought to the
admiralty intelligence from Nantz
of i'o late a date as the 3/1 inlt. thir
teen days later than the pretended
capture. The city was not then
even inverted, nor was there a Roy
alist armvin the neighborhood. The
island at the. month of the Loire, of
which the Royalists had puffeflion
for four or five weeks has beenri
trken by the troops of the conven
tion, who have also had some other
fuccedes in that neighborhood.
The Dutch mail, arrived this
morning, contains nothing interest
ing ; (heir accounts from Fiance
inform us, ihat the principal body
of the infurgeur army has been com
pletely defeated by the ariny of the
Convention.
Latest Foreign Advices.
By an arrival at f.arlpmutb, (N.H.)
Fngtijh papterj art reseiviri to tht
jo th June — tvio dilys latif thanthofi
by the Packet.
LONDON, June to.
The French force, in their camp
of Famars, confided of' 30,000 men,
, as flrongly entrenched as it is well
' polfiblc to suppose an ariny to be.
Camp, mar yalencienfttSy
June 2.
From, tlie Village of St. Sauveur
wc can approach »iihiu too varcf*of Valenciennes. —Tlie enemy seem
biiJy in repairing the works, &c.
On that fide I believe the principal
attack will be made, as the grouud
is very favorable. On the left is a
heighth, which in a great nieafure
commands the Horn-work, which is
likewise commanded and enfiladed,
tVoin the eali fide of Mount Anfin.
We break ground to-night, and 1
have seen the fiilt working party,
under the command of Lord Charles
Fitzroy, march off.—The Duke of-
York com in auds the siege. Ferra
yi», the celebrated Austrian Engi
neer, cond udts it. Mbncrieff will
1 hope, have a good deal to fay, as
3he has that boltle and activity which
is 100 often wanting in the Ger
mans. From the fiiuation of the
placc, which is commanded on every
fide, and from every appearance,
1 do not think it will be a tedious
business.
Con tie holds out, and, will do fu
while it has provisions, bei to taj
ly unatrackable,'fVom the extenlive
inundations, and is betides one. of
the bell and molt regular fortifica
tions in France.'
The ganifon'of Valenciennes is
supposed to be about 4 or jooo, and
is said to be very badly supplied
with munition de guerre.—They
have killed a great number of hors
es, the carcases of which we can
perceive round the Glacis ; a proof
ihey do not abound in forage.
If"like Uncle Toby, you have a
mind to carry on the liege along
with us, yon will probably find a
plan of the town rrt the rneinoires of
Turenne, or Luxembourg, by one
of whom, I think, it was last taken,
and I do not believe the works have
been much added to since.
The enemy have ioft begun to
fire on the working party. They
are also cannonading the Auftrians
on Mount An.fin, who are likewise
at work. Us they have not
vered, and 1 hope will not till the
men are under cove) .'
June 4.
We have had two parlies out,
but without any loss. Since writing
my 1 aft,l have examined the heigths
ot Aufin, and the wood on the left
ot the French, through which Clair
fayt attacked them. They had for
tified themselves so ft'rongly, and
thrown so many obstacles in the
way, that on his fir ft attack he was
beat.back, and, at last, succeeded
no farther than in getting pofleilion
of the wood. The entrenchments
011 the hill were abandoned by the
enemy on the morning of the 24th
lilt, afier the other part of the ar
my had made.their retreat through
Valenciennes. Had he succeeded
at firft, it appears highly probable
that the whole army would have
been /hut up in that town ; and
doubilefk that was the great objeil
of the day. At present, they are
reported to he between Bouchain
and Canibrai.
Cobourg has c reflect be Scheldt,
and his camp, I am told, extends
almott to the firft of these places,
rite.Hanoverians occupy the Camp
tiftamais with the greater part of
.(heir troops. On this fide the Ro
nelle are three battalions of Hano
veijan grenadiers, with their left at
Piefau ; two regiments of their ca
valry, and or:e regiment of Hunga
rian infantry. The second British
brigade oil the left of Areu ; the
Guards on the right of it : then two
Aufhian battalions,extending nca»
ly to Oiiaing. In front of them the
Ellcrliazi Huflars, and then in the
■village of St. Sauveur, which covers
the light of the whole pofiiion, two
companies of Croats, and two free
batralions, (viz. O'Donneland Me-
Icchowflii) whose out-polls extcqd
alniolt to the Glacis of the
work. Clairfuyt invests all the o-
Iher fide of the town, each wing ex
tending to the Scheldt,, aiid Mount
Aiifiii, nearly in ihe centre. With
the alliflaiice of Ferrari's map, this
will give you an idea of the manner
in which the place is invelted, and
nothing can be more complete.
,-OPihifcellaneoas articles, great
numbers arc of conrfe in circulati
on—the following, however, is cer
tain :In ihe baggage taken by the
llth dragoons, was a portmanteau
of an officer,in which was found an
uuEuiflicd letter, whfamong o
t'ner things, he dates, that ever fioce the
defertiou of Dumouiier, the diftipline of
the army was growing daily woife; that
at Famars all was confulion and insubor
dination ; that the troops of the line were
heartily lick ot the caule, and fufpe£ted,
and hated the others ; and that their loss
from the Bth to the 12.h of May had not
been less than 8000 men.
• Cultine is fa id to be at JLiilt, and we
imagine will endeavour to break the Cor
don in that quarter.' For my part, I do
not fee that it is of much conference, if *
we can keep the navigation of the Scheldj,
open of which there xati be but Etse'>'
doubt. . .
The utmost harmony prevails between
us and the Austrian troops; they fee to
to look upon us with rauch partiality, aYid
conficler lis as their old and natural ftiends.
When you eonfidtr what has been done
before the fealon in which "a campaign
generally opens, I do not think you can
accuse them of delay ; at the fame time
it is evident that the lapidity ot their fuci
cefs has put out.of their power to reap e
very possible advantage from it. Great
re-nforcements of men, artilleiy and horl
es, are on the road, and part ot ihcm near
at hand.
Adieu, for this time—l aim in perfect
health, arid so in general is the army..
I have just time to add, that Colonel
Pxrryn is this moment rctured from Bou
chain, which place is completely inverted,
—Quefnoi is in the fame fituat'ion, £0
that .we have at prcftnt 410 lef» nFd'ur
fortified places within the line.'JSpie
French are between Cambrai and Dou;jy>
in finall numbers Cuttine is with'thcta*
O.ice more adieu.
FROM IHE (BOSTON) MIRCURY.
A CORRESPONDENT observes, that the
mcafuie of calling together the General
Court, in the mid ft' ofhai vest time, however
inconvenient it may be to the members, is
arrnCt which goes beyond all the farmer exer
tions of patriotism, which have been display
ed by thefupteme executive officer of the
State, through hi| lonj£ and laborious life.
That the Goverwor of MaiTachufetts fhouJd
be roused from his peaceful (lumbers in the
chair of State, by.the service of a bill in equity
is a/i offence so attrocious as calls for the
whole force of the Legislature to avenge the
injury. That the Commonwealth oj Maffachujctts
Ihoiild bt compelled to comply with the la\Vs
of jvfiice and equity as much as a single citizen,
would be a principle so dire&ly repugnant jo
the fovcrfignty of the State, that no fort of in
convenience or expense can be an objs«st in
companion with that.of* resisting such an uiuf
patjon.—Does n.Tt every body know that Jb*
vtrognly copfifts i 1 doing injujlice with impuni
ty ? Has it not in all ages been one of the dar
ling prerogatives of royal fovereigntf, and
is not republican sovereignty entitled to the
Tight of doing wrong without answering for
as much as any crowned villain that ever ex
ited ? Considered in every point of view,
tiie calling upon a sovereign Commonwealth
todo justice, and to be equitable towards a sin
gle individual, the fumrftaning of five hun«
died thousand men, to deal fairly with one,
and worse than all, the indignity offered to
the MajeJly of the Commonwealth, by serving
a legal process upon its servant, is an ast of
such audacious abfnrdity, and o4* such aiatii)-
ing tendency, that nothing lefc than tile vif
dom of the legislature, invigorated by-the In
dignnnt relentmeut of the chief inagiftrate,
can be competent to avert the impending ca
lamity.
It has indeed been fa'd that the personal
affront, mail neceiTarily be theonly motive,
upon which the Genera! Court are called to
gether, at a period when the prefeiice of the
worthy agricultural members is lo necessary
to their own farms. Because as far as lef.
peCVs the interest of the State itfelf, the ques
tion involved in this tranfaftion, hasalieady
during two lucceflive felfions been before the
Legillature, and they have thought proper to
poitpone the consideration of the fubjeft untjl
their next Winter SefGon. But it is very ea
sy to discover whether there is not a fophiftn,
lurking under the plausible fuggeflion. The
truth is that the personal irritation of the
executive officer can at molt be considered
only as a ftimulous to rouse the Legislative
body from their apparent torpid indifference,
upon this momentous affair, and if they have
rhougit the general question whether the
State will be amenable to justice ? Deserving
of their future consideration, when the
wounded lleprefentative of the dignity of the
state brings tlie consequences of the obnoxioni
principle of compulsory justice, so clcjfely
home to our elves, they will readily precipi
tate the deliberation.
Mcjfrs. Printers,
YOU are requested to inform the public
through the channel of your paper, that the
few French citizens, who were fufpefted of
being interested in the privateer, lately fitted
out of this port, have used their influence
with their Confuland the commander to have
him return into the harbour upori the report,
that ftie was waiting for some English vciTeh,
which were ready, but could not fail for fear
of being taken : Accordingly the Captain, out
of regaid lor the Citizens j>f this towp, return
ed lalfc uight into the harbour, until those ves
sels are Ceiled. Ore of the Svfpesed.
495
Philadelphia, August 7.
AMBUSCADE and BOSTON FRIGATES.
An account of the aßiun between those velfelj, iv a
'*• -l J.
jpcftator on bourd the latter,
On Thursday the 1 ft of Ausjiift, at 2 A. M. the
Boikon difcovcred a fail on. (he weather bow ;
fhc immediately beat to arms, and every thin®
was prepared for attion. The Captain of the
Boston knowing himfelf near the fleet, conclud
ed to stand to the iouthward as long as it was
dark, that at daylight might fee if any more
ships were in fight. At about 5 o'clock, finding
110 other ship in fight, ftt fni! to head-ieach the
Ambuscade,, so as to fetch her on the other tack
In about 20 mi notes they tacked ship again, but
could, not fetch the Ambufc?idc. As soon as the
ftollon came abreast, (he bore down. Captain
Courtney expe&ing the enemy were going to
rake h:m ? wore Chip and met him in the oppo
fi=e sack.' The Bolton then hauled down her
French colouis which (he had wore in her for
rri r manceuV rings, and hoiiiing her Englilli co
lours, fired a broadside without bailing the other
'(hip. The Ambuscade returned the fire, carried
away the Boston's crbfs jack yard, and passed
by. The Boston then tacked again and came
under the Ambuscade's lee quarter, wheii the
. engagement was very smart. Irt the eariv part
of the action the ift; and 2d lieutenants' were
wounded. About the middle part the Captain
was killed, as was. lieutenant'Grt marines ;
and abouj, ,the fame time the m<un'top mart was
shot away. The Ambuscade the whole of
. this time dropping astern, tp get on thff Boston's
weather quarter ; and as soon as fhc had got this
si nation had greatly the advantage, and shortly
a'tcr cut the fpars,fails and rigging of the Boston
111 such a frianner, that they had very little com
mand of their (hip.
The lft lieutenant (who had been wounded
before) came on deck and took command : he
immediately bore away, making what fail he
, ctKild, and having? fair wind, set all his (leering
fails on his foremaft. The Ambuscade gave
coace, Which she continued about 2 hours, but
finding foe could not overtake the Boston, spoke
a brig which the appeared to have captured.
The Boston has received much damage in her
hull, and sprung her mizen mast, damaged her
tore and mizrn yarrf,tjfyd most part of hei (land
ing and running rigging cut to pieces. One of
her main deck guns was also dismounted, and
by the surgeon's account there were 10 men kil
led and 24 wounded; among the former were
Captain Courtney, the lieutenant and corporal
of marines ; among the latter, 3 lieutenants and
l midshipman. '
As some persons have disputed the challenge
sent by Capt. Courtney to Citizen Bompard, I
think proper to certify that it is a matter of ia£h
The Ambuscade returned to New-York on
Saturday mornuig, with the loss of 8 men killed
and about 30 wounded,in the above engagement.
The New-York papers inlorm us, that the
matts of the Ambuscade were so wounded in
the late engagement, that (he mull have a new
set complete.
Tuesday everting arrived here the fhio
from Nantes, which place ffoe left about the fiifl
of June —Letters aie received by her as late
the 3d.
"We have seen a Paris paper of. the 28th
May—br-ought by the' Fame—it contains se
veral letters from Gen. Lamoi liere, and the
Commiflioiiers, dated at Lisle—-giving an ac
count of a fuccefsful attack on the enemy in
t e neighborhood of that place, on the 23d.
Extrafl oj a Utter from KingJlon, ( Jam.) June 13.
" Yetterdav failed from Bluefields, the home
ward bound fieet, accompanied by a very weak
convoy; this is the largcft and richtft fleet of
merchantmen ever dispatched from this island,
the vf dels belonging to this town only are valued
at four millions fteiling. There was a meeting
a few days ago of the inhabitants, to petition the
Governor for the admifhon of provjfions in
American bottoms, or a famirie mull be the in
evitable consequence, for, on the mod minute
investigation, there is not provisions in town for
3 fortnight's supply ; what with the numerous
inhabitants,, the (oldiery, navy, vsft number of
French prifotoers, thirty odd fail of Guineamen
ih the harbor, and a vast number of Spauifh vef
frls to be (uppiied, you will naturally conclude
the to be very great."
Though the following Declaration may not be worn as
a vijible talisman— yet the Jentiments art indelibly
engrafted on the heart of every real friend to the
huppinejs of our Country—and wiU % without doubt,
operate to Jecuring its peace and profpertty Jot
man\generations.
Extract/rom Gazitti.
" Mr. Printer,
#t I sincerely love my ecunny, rejoice in its
prosperity, and, where wisdom dilates and vir
tue approves, will chcarfully contribute to its
welfare, by all the me<ms within the compass of
my power. While I repose in security under
ihe (hade of the Tree of Liberty, enjoy the de-
repast of its fruits, and participate the
gales of general piofpcrity, I hope 1 shall not be
the firil to contrail the benefits of its umbrage,
bv lopping the luxunancy of its branches, nor
(loom myfclf to merit execration, by applying
the firftax to its roots % Conscious of the blef
fvrgs 1 enjoy under the amplb roof, my
COUNTRY'S CONSTITUTION, I AM LED 1Y A
SECRET IMPULSE OF SELF-F RESERVATION
TO STRENGTHEN THE PILLARS WHICH SUP-
PORT it, and thus, while I divert the calami*
tics of juin, 1 perpetuate to myfelf the protection
of this new and commodious edifice.—
Th»-s, si") i* My pauiotifm, which if not refined
from the gioffntT* of feiftfh motive, is not the
lefe Gntere and natural, (ince it proceeds from a
fundamental and ineiiftiblc fpting of human
eperauoo."
Extract of a letter from Afftu-Ybtk, Augujl x,
" There has been a meeiiug to-day »n the
Fields, to con fid er of the propr>ety of addrelling
the French Mirnftefr, wIVo is expc&eri here to
morrow ; and it lias been det< rnry.ned, tho' not
without much o'pppfitian, to addrels him/'
A writer in the Netc York Patriotic Journal,
asks the following quettion—Would there be
an impropriety in wearing the National Rib
bon during the war ?—-Another wjiter from
the fame mint, has honored America, by tail
ing her the daughter of FYar/ce, i t is
abundantly evident that there are peifons
among us w-ho wish to fink or lose the Nation
ot Independent Americans in that of forne
European power— is one way of keep
ing clear ot European politics and eo»jnec r
tions !——With rt?fpe<s to ribbons, or other
public badges, their fatal effects have been
realized, in all ages-r-In the rime of the Em
peror jultinian, the ribbon faflioni in Cooftan
tinople, destroyed of each thou
sand persons in one day.
The ftiip Happy Return, Cap!. Steven.*, Surfi
rived at Newcaille,in nine weiksttoni Lm4m«
deny, with 400 pHtlengen. •
The Merchants and others, inhabitants of ihe
town of Beverly, MafTachufetts, have pß<fed sun
dry resolutions expreflive of a full approbation
of the President's Proclamation of Neutrality.
The Committee appointed to distribute relief
to,the diftrefled French Emigrants from the Cape;
REPORT, That upwards of 600 have alrea
dy arrived in Philadelphia from sea and fiom
Baltimore.
That 239 have been relieved in a very tempo
rary manner.
About 6 have been sent to the hospital under
the fecurit v of the com mittee for board, &c.
About 80 have been lodged, under hke secu
rity for board.
About 60 equally diftrcfled with the former,
but having juit an ived, have not been, but will
be relieved.
About 100 have had employments procured
tor them ; buj small advances for cloaihing was
absolutely nerefiary.
The sum a&ually expended is a6co dollars.
The committee have rhicfly confined their relief
to fubfiftcn t ce for 15 day?, which is near expir
ing; they have procured lodgings tor the great
est part on very moderate terms ; they have
taken pains to avoid impositions, and to give,
onlv to those really diftieffed.
Besides the above enumerated, the committee
report, that 800 dollars has Wen diftnbilled by
the Frenrh Patriotic Society ; their fund bein#
exhausted, many of the objetts of it must apply
to the commitu-e.
Macy who had favtd Tome small matter of
property have not yet applied, but their fund
being small, they must soon have recourfeto the
committee.
They report generally, that (hey have in pur
suit of this duty, been witness to the greatest
scene of distress that can be conceived, and can
not but recommend that the fubferip: on be
warmlv promoted, under a full conv ftion/ihat
notwithfUnding »he mod rigid ceconpmy has
been funds expe&ed, will be far (Hoit
of what will he wanted, to complete the bene
volent obje£l of their fellow-citizens.
J. VAUGHAV,
P LEMMGRE,
J. G. WACHSMUTH.
COMMUNICATIONS.
Who arc the prrfons that clamour in favor of
a government of laws, & not of ? Anfwei —
They are those who glory in the infufts which
the laws and their administrators receive at the
hands of the avowed enemies of borh. -
Who are the peifons who toajl principles and
not men ? Answer—They are thereby men who
fly in the ffce of principles, whenever their ope
ration contravenes their ambitious proje&s.
Who are the persons that fay they like the
Constitution of the United States, hut dislike
the administration of thi Government ? Answer,
They arc the v<ry men who exerted themfelve*.
to the utmost, to prevent the adoption of the
Constitution ; but iiilce that event took place,
conceive that their merits have not been properly
rewarded by posts of honor and profit under the
Government.
Who are the men that fay «• the voice of the
people is the voice of God," and that reprefen
taiion is the vital principle of republicatiifm ?
Answer—They are the very peifons who have
reviled, abused and infuhed the President and
Vice President of the Uuited States, the majority"
of both Houses of CongrMs, the freely
elected Representatives of the People—and
this they have been continually employed in do
ins for more than four years past—and after re
pcatedc/cfliens made by the sovereign people.
NEW-YORK, August 3.
Yesterday afternoon arrived the French Fleet,
confiding of the L'Eole and 'Jupiter, 74 gun*
each, two Frigates and twelve other (hips; they
came to anchor off the Battery and Bred a salute
°f *5 guns, which was returned from the Baf
tery.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED*/the PORToj PHILADELPHIA.
Ship New-Bedford, Smith, New-Bedford
Fame, Eldridgc,
Delaware, Art,
Brig Fair H'-br, Brown,
Phoebe, Drinker,
Twins, Yard,
New Planter, Hawkins,
Industry, Brewfter,
Sch. Ceres, Sievrns,
Dolphin, W^tfon,
Sloop Fair American, Stevens,
Harmony, Stratton,
Anna, Gardner,
Sally, Hayes,
%T The Fteveh Jkips mentioned in our lajl to
have at rived here, are La Precieute, of 36 guns,
and of 9 2 guns—thro' mijin formation,
thefeJhips weie mijnamed in Jome oj Saturday's pa
pers.
(3* Price of Stocks as in our
•S-- /
Nant z
Char le (lon
Oporto
Cape Francoir
Si. Croix
do.
St. John's
Curacoa
Cape-Francois
St. Croix
New-York
Nantucket
Guadaloupe■ ii j Dili. (ft-. Bits.it'i
PRICE CURRENT. .dig
Fix quantity. —Dot laa s too Ceius each. j iticuf baikcU, 12 bottle* 5 '
1 Spertnaccu pr. *1
PHILADELPHIA, August J. ' **
I Whaie 3*
A' D/ts. Oj. au>.(u\* ontt pr-cad, 53$
NCHORS pr.lb. 7 10 London.pT.ddl. 1
Allum, Engli'.h, pr.cwt. 4 33 — dmo bot.rncl. "
Ditto, Rcch pr. lb. "P C u nl' a i. i * 73 ,6
Albes, pot, per ton, «»> Burl.ngtdn, per batrtl, 6
Pearj, «34 '4° * Lower county if S *
Arrack pr. gall. ■33 > ~ ' k(V 1 «
Brandy, common, 8o g 3 Peas, Albany pr b.ftur] «
Comae 9° HO «pptr, pr.lb.
Braziletto, pr. ton. 4°| lmento
Bricks, pr. M. 4 7 I Raifins, best, pr. keg 7
Bread, (hip, pr. ewt. 2 2 7|Ditto pr.jar 3 33
Ditto, pilot 4 jDitto pr. box 3
Ditto, small water, per keg 36 4 0 |Rice pr.cwt. 345
Beer, American, in bottles, IRofin pr. banel 2 7«|
pr.dbi. bottles included, » 74|Rum, Jamaica,pr. gallon 1
Ditto pr. barrel, 6 I Antigua 1
Boards Cedar pr. M feet, 20 I Windward
■ ■ ■ New England 10 14 J Barbadoea
Oak M ,6 Country, N. E. 62
Merchantable pine 20 *4 |s a l tpet ,e, pr.cwt. .433
S 'P. do - f 10 67 Safrafra. pr. ton 6 8
I" Mahogany, per foot .0 shot r,.^
The above are the lballop prices, Steel, German pr.lb. 9
for the yard price, add 1 dol- Engliffi.bliftercd, pr. eWt. to
Jar 33 cents per .000. American pr. ton s<3 33
Brimftonr in roll*, pr.cwt. 2 Crowley's pr. faggot 1067
Beef, Boston, per barrel 12 ISnake root pr. lb. 26 41
Country ditto 9 10 poap, Brown per lb.
——Frcfh, per cwt. 333 4 671 White ®
Butter pr.lb. Castile 11
in kegs 10 1 -jStarch 7
Candles, Sperm, pr.lb. 47jSnuffpr.do2.bot. 4 5
■—•Wax 53 s&|Spcrmacefi, refined, pr. Ib. 48
Myrtle Wax *3 Sailcloth,Engl i(b,No.l,pr. yard, 4° I
Mould, tallow *41 Boston, No. I. ditto 36
... ..--Dipped 1 3| .ir M. t rr qa
Cheese, Engiiftl, pr. fb. Hsugar Lump, pr.lb '
Country 8 >3 refined "
Chocolate >8 *1 Ditto, double do. 33
Cinnamon 2 °7 Havannah, white if > 6
doves * 3vl Ditto, brown, «0 >t
Cocoa pr. cwt. 10 11 J Muscovado, pr. cwt. 5 12
Coffte pr. Its. *4 iSpiritiTurpcntine pr. gallon s^
Coll pr. bulhcl 4 |? Salt, Allum pr. bushel' 33
Copperas pr.cwt. 1 ° Live 00l 33
Cordage, American, per c*t. 7 9 Cadiz 2 3
Cotton pr.lb. «7 3? lift>on 27
D U u'ck, o ßuTia, pr.pieet 14 15 SMpbuiW. WO. frames p.ton, 2*
_ Ravens 11 IDutO Live Oak, «»
Dutch fa.l duck, so iDitto redccdar per foot J 7 ii
rtlShingles, 18 inch, per M. 3 33 3 °7
Feathers pr. lb. T„ Ditto i'fiet, 650 6
a!t ditto * iDitttf 3'fe«i, irerfed, >3 15
FJaxfced pr. bulb. 9° lStaves, I>ipe,pr. 1006 32
Flour, Superfine pr. barrel J75 White Oak hoglheidj 1033
Common, 3 5 Red Oak do. 1950
——Bur middlings, bell 45 Lertgan ai33
Meal, Indian i 5* — Barril »6
ditto Rye, 4 I Hr.iftific 2c
. Ship-ftuff pr.cwt. t4O 1 7 |5| t j OSj otter, best pr. piece 467
fuftic pr. ton, 20 Minks 4( ; 4<5
Girt, Holland, pr. cafe, 4 6 b | Fox, grey 40 80
Do. pr. gall. 8o 9°! Ditto red «20
Gtue, pr. cwt. *0 331— 24 1
Ginger, white race, per lb, 71 :fiflf«r» • 33 67
Ditto, common 71 Bears 3
Ditto, ground pr.lb. > c | —l_Rac<joiii 27 6;
Ginseng, eo a, l| Mu{k-rits tt »o
Gunpowder, cannon, pr. q.calk, 373 4 I Braver, pr. !fe. 67 133
Ditto, fine glazed 4 I Deei,inhair 20' 30
Grain Wheat pr. bulb 100 t - rar , N . Jer r, y> , 4 gil p . 6bl .
*>> e j Carolina, 32 gals. 2
9 a ,. „| Turpentine pi.bbl. 233
Indian corn ' (Tobacco, J. River, belt roolo. 433
pr.lb. 7| —"-"inferior 3 33
Buckwhea't. per bulb. 4c[
—DUCKwmai, r i Rappahannock 3 S3
Hemp, imported, pr. ton, 120 130 I —; Coloured 533 ®
American, |>r. lb. 4 5j- park, 240
Herrings, pr.bbl. 3 j Long-leif 24c
Hides, raw pr.lb. 9 j——-Eaftern-ftiore 2 2 23
ffops Carolina, new 2 7 3
Hogshead hoops, pr. M. 15 I old, 33^
Indigo, French per lb, 1 67 Tea, Hyson pr. Ib. 53 1 2g
Carolina t 1 fio Hyson fk-n, 53 6 0
Irons, fad pr. ton, *33 33 Souchong, 30
Iron, Callings pr. cwt, 3 4 I Congo, 43,
Bar pr. ton, 84 l_Bohca 33 3fi
. p- r 24 jTallow, refined, per lb. o
Sheet >73 33 T' n P'-box, 1333 >36,
•" . 1 Nail rods 101 33|Vei digreafe pr. lb. 47 53
Junk, pr. 5 jvermillion, do. 133 1
Lard, hogs pr. lb. 9 - *°|Varnish, per gallon 33 37
L«ad, in pigs pr. cwt. 5 33 67 Wax, Sees pr.lb. 25 27
bit " .0 10 Sj Wfiale-bone, long pr.lb. 13 30
re< l 6 40 6 6-1 Wine, Madeira, pr. pipe, 176 226
Leather,foal, pr.Jb. 17 2C Lisbon 120 126.
Lignum vitx pr. ton, 560 6' j Teneriffc, pr. gallon 63
Logwood 3° I Fay* l 52
Mace pr.lb. 9 -Port pr. pipe >13 33
Mackarel, bed pr.bbl. 8 [ Ditto in bottles, pr.doz. 4
fcondqnality 4 Claret 4 6
Madder, beftpr. lb.' 16 20 Sherry pr.gall. 90 t 20
Marble, wrought,pr. foot, •33 267 rMalaga 77 80
Mad spars flitto 33
MolalTes pr.gall. 33 4 1 1
Multard per. lb. 87 COURSE Of EXCHANGE.
flour, in briules, pr.doi. 1 , .
, , ~ On London, at 30 days, per / .100 fieri. 466
Nails, BJ. ioi. island 20J. pr.lb. to I _ at 6odays 46333
Nutmegs pr. lb. 7 8 I at 90 oay» 460
Oil, Linseed, pr. gall. , 661 Amsterdam, 60 days, pr. guilder, 42
_—Olive &r — 9° <i»ys, 40
War Department,
Jitguft l/l, 1793.
Information is hereby given to an the
Military Invalids of the United States, that
the sums to which they are intitled for fix months
'of their annual ,pension, from the 4th day of
March last, and which will become due on the
of September next, will be paid on the f.iid
day by the Commiflioncrs of the Loans, with
in the States refpc&ively under the usual regu
lations.
By Command of the
1* ass 1 dent of the United States.
H. KNO Secretary at War.
Stbck Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-lhect, New-York.
THE Sub fori be r intending to coni&rt himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, begs leave to of
fer hisiervices to his friends and others, in the
lineofa Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their business, may depend
upon Having it tranfa&ed with the utmost fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boflon, or any
other part of the Untied States, w il 1 be ft ri£ti
attended to.
(t.y
LEONARD BLEECKER,
496
American Stocks.
THE Resources of ibc United State. of Aim
-1 nca being, in pid'portion 10 their D.b ,
p.obaolv tuprnor to fltofeof any turopean <£>-
veinmcßt ; aid they
fion so, ,he Payroll ol Um: lu " :,eft -. ot ,b "
Stocks, only .wo Arrangement. »J°" " *
cfllary to make them J very cffgtble PVopeny to
People in this Country; vi*.
,ii In nate ikiM-lTattjtrktkUi* Lmicf ;M,
*d! 7» piovidt Xw forcing tht '"""A''
Dividends, :* London, funtluatlj on * etrtatn Da,
theft two Objefti, the annWcd
Declaration is pubUlhed, aud an ® Ace " v '^ P
nt.de, the Direction ol the Trufters, by M .
VM LcotenbD'ifi, t»Hcre©>nftant atieodir.ee
given, for the Purpose of receiving Slock, and
making Transfers. . .
The Dividends will he received in America
by the Trufle'es, and will be 'J\}s
the LONDON and MIDDLESEX BANK,
Siratford-plate, London, (a» mentioned to the
Declaration of the TrufteiS,) 9»i the First Days
I of January, Apjtl, July, and Oaober, without
»nv Dedu6hon. ... - ,
It is hoped that thife M?aftJre< v»tll render
making Tiatxfe..' and rrceivtng Dividends M
convenient as at the Bank of fcnglarid, or »ny
. otWer Place. Persons who with to purthalc
American Stocks, or to tratifift any other Buli
nefs in them, by applying perfonllly at the
Office, or by tetter to Mr. Lwcnwt'th, will Be
carefully attended to. -
frtcKdh's-CourtjCojnhilt, May to, 1793*
DECLARATION or TRUST.
WE, CitAiD Noil Ed wards, Samuel
Swith, Git>*<rr Ttwri-m, Nathaniel
Ml DDI ETON, RICHAtD JOHNSOKj aud JoHS
Wi-dgwood, Elquires, Bankers :
At the Riquelt of fuiidry Persons, have con-
and agreed to hold in Trust for them and
othiri, for the Space of Twenty Years, such
American Stocks at they (hall, from Time to
Time, transfer to us. And (Security having
been given by us for the Purpose) we engage to
receive the Dividends, that may be paid in
America, on all such Siock as shall be so trsns
fertd to us in Trust, and to pay the fame to the
several Proprietor, at our Banking-House, in
Stratford-place, London, Three Months after we
(hall have received the fame in America, at the
Rate of Four Shillings and Six-pence Sterlingfor
iach Dollar received, without any Dedufhon.
For the Purpose of Tiansfering the said Stock
to the Tiuftees and from Individuals to each
other, an Office is opened in Freeman's-Court,
Comhill, where regular Book* are kept under
our Infprftion and Direflion. We farther de
clare that we will transfer to any Ptifon or
Persons his, her, or their, Stocks when icqoircd
so to do.
Lotion, Mat itfh, 1793.
GERARD NOEL EDWARDS.
SAMUEL SMITH.
GEORGE TEMPLER.
NATHANIEL MIDDLETON.
RICHARD JOHNSON.
JOHN WEDGWOOD.
A D V E R T I SI M £ N f.
Nkw-Jexsey, jt T> Y virruc of a Writ t6 n>e
SuJJtx County* ff. £ X 3 dire&ed, issued out of
the High Court of Chancery of Nrw-Jerfey, at
the suit of William Shipley against John Ming
and others ; I (hallexpofe to laleat Public Ven
due, on the sixth day of February next, between
the hours of Twelve and Five in the Afternoon
of the fame day, on the Premises, the following
described Tratl of Land, with itsappurtenances,
situate in the Townftiip of Oxford and County
of SniXex, beginning at a Chefnut Oak Tree, cor
ner of Daniel Cox's land, and (lauding in the
line of a former survey made to Thomas Steven
foa, being marked with the letter B. and thence
extending along Coxe'S line (firftj south fifty de
grees weft fifty-five chainsand feventy-five links,
to > Blatk-Oak Tree corner of Joseph Shrppen's
land (second) south nine degrees and fifteen mi
nutts, weft ninety chains and fixty-five links to
at forked White-Oak Tree, marked with the let
ters R and B another of the la<d Shippen's cor
neri (third) thence north eighty degrees, eaftone
hundred and forty-five chains, to a post on the
footherly fide of Paquaoftc-F iver, being also a
cottier of John Reading's*land (fourth) thence
north thirty-nine degrees Wt ft-, one hundred
and thirty-two chains to the place of beginning,
containing nine hundred and thirty acres with
the usual allowance for roads and high ways—
The fame Premises aie within eight miles of the
River Delaware, and there is thereon a conveni
ent Grill Mill with two pair of Stones—a Saw
Mill in good repair, with a fufficient stream of
water for their use—a Dwelling tfoufe, Store
House, and feveralfmall buildings.
MARK THOMPSON. Sheriff.
Dated 22d day of July, 1793
City of Washington.
A January, jth, 1793.
NUMBER of Lou in this City will be of.
fered for file at auftioo, by the Commit
(loners, on the jjth day of September next.
One fourth part of the purchase money is 10 be
p&id down, the residue atihreeequal annual pay.
iricuts with yearly intercfton the whole princi
pal unpaid.
, JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk to the Cm'rs.
Ext raft of an Ast of the General Assembly of
V.;M»ryfai»d, concerning thy Territory of Cu
i t flumbia, aiid the City c*t Walhingron.
... , BeKcna« t d, That any foreigner may by
died or wtll, hereafter to be tiade, take and hold lands
within that part of the jaid Territory which tin with
in this State, in the fame manner as if he wa< a citi
ztn of this State ; and the fame lands may be con.
veyed by htm, and IrahfmitteJ to and he inherited by
his heirs or relations, as if he and tiiey were eitizent
ofthn State: Providrd That, no foreigner Jhall,
,n virtue hereof, be entitled to anyj',,,her or other
privilege of & citizen."
Tan. i
71CK K T S
Inth= FEfrERAL CI PY LOTTERY
Miy be had at SAJUcEL COOPtK,'.' Sv'
To the Public*
THE Elitor «f the Gacttt* oi T«sW(»
STAT»i,,propo("es publi&ing the Ptper,
uncier that Title, every Evening/Sunday's
ei'crptf J. . .
TtfrendeMt a-, a Daily PuWi
c&tii>«i it faall enniitin fbW?*rf and
commercial and political lirr«!Wgettce r-=-Ef
i'ajys »nd Observations, local and general :—
Maritime information :—Price* Current #F
Merc'rtandire and the Public Fundi. Alfa a
i'uiiin'iary ot" the proceeding! ofCorigreft, ami
of the btgifhtu'e ot' this Stnte With a
fllerch of OangrrfWhil Debates, Sec.
Advektixws favors will be grawlvlly r*.
t f . -~ - .j-> •*4
Trfbe printed onp'aptr. (ifthe MilT tftf" |
» farmer lite" (Wall bslWwtuted ii
The pr : ce Six Dollars por Annum, tobs
paid half Yearly.
When a fufficient number of Siwfcribers is
obtained, the Publication lhall commence.
In the'interim, (he Gazette will be publifli
ed twice a week a* u r uai.—Subscript on.s «re
refpeftfully fblicitsd by die PiiMie'i HuniU*
JOHN FENNO.
03" Suifcrittians ire rectivsd ut tht City J arm.
South Second Stteet—l>\ Mr. Dokjon, at tht Stone
Houje—by other pc'Jdns who are m f'"J]e//ion u s fuh.
Jcrrption papers, and hy the £ditoat titj h.uj'e t
Xt>. Kink Fifth-Street.
Philadelphia, Jtly, i7o3i
INSURANCE COMPANY
PnrcAiffci.Yi&tA, July ift, 1793
NOTICE is herefcy given to t be rnVmbcis ofr
the Infnrance Cotapa-rvy 4f Notitf A'Vu-rl.
ca, that the Directors have declared a d:vdi nd
(to this day) ol {ix per cent orr the amoun; a\ the
firfl inllalmcnt, and ot one per cent per month,
oa the lams paid towards the second and" third
mftalments, calculating tiom :he fitft day of
the month following that in which these pay
ments were made. The Dividend will be pa d
t» the Stockholders or their Reprtfcuiative*, at
the Company's Office, (No. 119, foisth Fiont-
StreetYat any time after the 7th iifft.
£BLtfEZER HA2ARD,
As the rhtmhtrs of this (dHpan\- art muck
dijftrfld throughout t'-e United States, ihe Prints* 1
in the feveraljlates are retjuejted to give the übuvt a
p/ace :n their netvjfiaperj.
Ku L £ S
To be observed in trarifafling Bu&neft wilh the
Insurance Company
OF NORTH-AMERICA.
ift. LL orders for Insurance must br given
XjL in writing, signed by the applicant;
ind as minute a defenption of the vr£<?l is ex
pected, as the person ordering the nifbrance can
give, refpe£ting her age, built, how found and
fitted, and whether double or (ingle decked'.
id. All policies will be ready tor delivery ift
twenty-four hours after the order for insurance
is accepted at r'nfe office, and the policy mud be
taken up in ten days.
3d. Notes, with an approved enctorfe?, for jH
premiums, must be given in ten da-ys, payable
as folfcws :
For American and Weft-India rifques, in
three it onihs after the date of the policy,
for European rifques,. io frx months.
For India and China rifques, in *2 months,
for rifques by the year, in eight months.
For rifques for fix months, in fonr mouths.
And for iif<jaes f<*r any kffer time, in tbrci
months.
4th. Lollies will be paid in ten days after prool
and adjustment ; but if the note given for th*
premium shall not have become due within that
time, the amount ol it (ball, nVvtitheiefs, be dt
du&ed from the loss to be paid.
The Insurance Company of North-America
hereby give notice to all whom it viay concern,
that, agreeably to the above rules, they arc reedy
to receive all orders for insurance, which may
be addrefled to them, accompanied with diicc
tions to foine refpon(it>lc house in Philadelphia
for the payment of the premiums within the
lime limited.
In cafe the rifques offered shall be approved,
the insurance (ball be immediately effrfted ;
otherwise notice shall be given, either by a nitres'
to the person applying, or to his agent, in Phila
delphia, as may be ordered.
By order ol the Dire&ors,
EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'ry.
4 w
J u, y 3-
Albany Glafs-Houfe.
The Proprietors of the tindcf
0 the Firm of
M'CLALLEN, M'GREGOR and Co.
BEG leave to inform the public, that they have
now brought their WINDOW-GLASS t<j
loch perfection, as will be found, on companion,
to be equal, in quality, to the belt London
Crown Glass.
Having fixed their piices at a 10-frer rate than
imported Glass, they are induced to believe, that
importations of this article will be difconiinued,
m proportion as their works are exicnotd.— i -
They propose to eqlarge the scale of thi» busi
ness, and as the fucceJs ot it will depend on the
patriotic support of the public, tbey beg leave to
solicit their friendly patronage in the pursuit of
a btanch which will intercft ciery iover of
American Manufactures.
All orders for Wi ndow-Glajs, of anv fiz«V
will be received at ihc Store of Rhodes and
MacGregor, No. 234, Queen-street, New-
York, and at the trials VVa'rhoufc, No. 48,
M,arkct-ftrcf t, Albany, which will be punctually
attended to.
£3* WANTED, fix fmait active X.ADS, not
exceeding i 6 Yisjsot irr bt uiiieuUd zs
.Apprentices, and »nil rutted in the
various brjnchej of Glaft-MakiP^.
Ajqo, thrtc .(s MAer-, 10 whom
,«at cncouraermeut \v 11 i b« vven,
May i, , 793
*
<> ♦
epi? w