. . - ' ■ ■ ■' ■ --*■ • -i f :*—
A NATIONAL PAPER,, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 34, NORTH FIFTH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 9 1 of Vol. IV.]
JUST PUB LIS HI D ,
By Thomas Dobfon,
JZookfeller, at the Stove~Houfe y in Second Jlrcct,
Philadrlphia,
VOLUME VIII, of
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
or, A DICTIONARY of ARTS, SCIENCES,
an# MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
Us a Plm entirely new
8 T WHICH
Ttf* DI F F>£R ENT SCIENCES AND ARTS
are digested into the Form of Piitintfc,
TJRJEATIS&S OR SYSTEMS :
THIS VOLUME CONTAINS
AN Account of the Cape of Good Hooe,
Grafting, Universal Grammar, Grades,
Greece* Greenland, Guam, Guinea, Gunnery,
Haopioefs, Harmony, Heat, Hepatic-Air, He
raldry, Hindoftan, Hippotamus, History, New-
Holland, Horse, Horfemanlhip, Hottentots,
Hunting, Husbandry, Hydrometer, with a great
variety ot Biographical and Miscellaneous Arti
cles. JSmbellifhed with sixteen Copperplates,
CONDITIONS.
I. The work i« printing on a fuperfinc paper,
and new typrs, (cast so* the puipofe) wtvch
will be occasionally renewed before they con
traa worn appearance.
11. The work is furniftied in boards, in volumes
or half-volumes, as fubferibers chufe; the price
ot the whole volumes, five dollars each, ot the
half-volumes two dollars and two-third# of a
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on sub
scribing, the volumes or half-volumes finifhed
to be paid for when delivered, the price of one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each succeeding volume to be paid on deliver
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
work will be delivered unless paid for.
111. In the co'itfe of the publication will be de
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia: which by
far exceed m number those given in any other
fcientific dictionary. At the close of the pub
lication will be delivered an elegant frontif
picce, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages frr the different volumes,
It is exp< £cd the work will be comprised in
about eiphi 1 volumes in quarto.
sr A f vftal jentlrmen uho have honored this
vnierlrtkinr with tar/y fvtfeiptimi, have only re
ceived a (ma!i. paii •>) *be "—»'*• earne/th
requrftcd to complete their jets, as Jar as pMijhed,
immediately, while the puHiflter Jlill has it in his
sower tofufplj ti.rm with the parts which have not
hem furnijhrd. At the fubjrription will very pofji
hly he closed hi the firft rtj July next, the publijher
cannot undertake to complete sets after that period ;
and thoje who rv'/h to become ptjejors of this truly
valuable and important work, will pleaje apply before
the expiration oj that time, that they may not be dis
appointed.
The very heavy er pence necefftriU incurred in car.
rying on this work, makes it mdifpenfahly requifitc
jot the pubhfher to cdhere more Jtrrffh than he has
dove to the original condition, of delivering the vo
lumes only on heing paidjor them. .
April 6. 1703
Post-Road
TO THE GENESEE COUNTRY.
THE public are hereby informed, that the
Post-Road from Philadelphia to Reading,
i.s continued to Sunbury and Northumberland ;
thence up the Weft Branch of the Sufquehannah
as far as Licoming; thcoce to the Painted Poll
(in New-York (late, near the foi ks of the Tioga)
thence to Bath (a town laid out on the Cohofton
Branch of the Tioga) thence to Williatufburg,
at the forks of Genefee River. ,
Letters tor this new route will be sent from
the Philadelphia Poft-Offiee every Wednesday
morning, at eight o'clock, With the mail tor
Reading.
A weeklv mail will alio be carried from
'Bethlehem to Wiltkelbarre, in the county of
Luzerne.
General Vojl-Cfficc, Aprif6, 1793.
TO BE SOLD,
A noted covering Horse,
OF THE HUNTING BREED.
HE -was imported trom England in Novem
ber, feven.'et n hundred and eighty-fix, and
is now ten years old ; he is a bright bay, with a
blaze,fifteen bandsone inch high, is well form'd,
has a gieat deal of bone end strength, and h<s
adUon equal to any horse. His colts arc well
appiovrd of in the different parts of the State
where he has flood, of which any person inclined
to purchase can inform therafelves.——Enquire
of the Printer.
February 18,1793.
ADVERTISEMENT.
WHEREAS a BRIDGE is to be built over
Ranun Rivet, at the city ot Ncw-Brunf.
wick, inibe (late of New-Jerfry—to accomphfh
which, will require the ferviceot many carpen
ter! and unions of experience ; Notice is there
fore heieby given, that any perlon or persons in
clining to undertake the whole, or any part there
of, by applying to the fubferibers, on or before
the hid day ol Mav next, may have an opportu
nity of contraflinn for the fame.
JOHN BAYARD,
JACOB HARDENBURGH,
JOHN DENNIS, Sen.
Brarjli/ickj March 24th %
CONCLUSION OF
An ACT for <-nrollitig and licenfmg
(hips or veHels to be employed in
the coasting trade and {iflieries,
and for regulating the fame.
AND be it furthereafted, That when any
fliip or veilel, licenced for carrying on the
fifhery, shall be intended to touch and trade at
any foreign port or place, it shall be the duty
of the matter, commander, or owner, to ob
tain permiflion for that purpose, from the col
lector of the distriCt where such ship or vessel
may be, previous to her departure, and the
inafter or commander of every fnch Ihip or
vessel, shall deliver like manifefts, and make
like entries, both of the ship or vessel, and ot
the goods, wares, or merchandize on board,
within the fame time, and under the fame
penalty, as by the laws of the United States,
are provided for ships or vefleJs of the United
States arriving from a foreign po»t. And if
any ship or vessel, licenced for carrying on the
fiflieries, (hall be found within three leagues
of the coast, with good ;, wares, or merchan
dize of foreign growth or manufacture ex
ceeding the value of five hundred dollars,
without having such permiflion, as is herein
directed, such fhipor vefiel, together with the
goods, wares, or merchandize of foreign
growth or manufacture imported therein,
lhall be subjeCt to seizure and forfeiture.
And be it further enabled, That the master
or commander of every ship or vessel, employ
ed in the transportation of goods, from dis
triCt to distriCt, that shall put into a port,
other than the one to which fae was bound,
shall, within twenty-four hours of his arrival,
if there be an officer residing at such port, and
she continue there so long, make report of
his arrival, to such officer, with the name of
the place he came from, and to which he is
bound, With an account of his lading ; and if
the master of such ship or vcfTel shall negleCt
or refufe to do the fame, he shall forfeit
twenty dollars.
And be it further enacted, That if the
matter or commander of any ship or vessel,
employed in the transportation of goods, from
distriCt to distriCt, having on board goods,
wares, or merchandize of foreign growth or
manufacture, or distilled spirits, (hall, on his
arrival at the port to which he was destined,
have Zoll PC-jnifl&id thfL certified manifeft ot
the fame, or the permit which was given
therefor, by the ccflleCtor or surveyor of the
distriCt from whence he failed, the collector of
the distriCt where he shall so arrive, shall take
bond for the payment of the duties on such
goods, ware* and merchandize of foreign
growth or manqfaCture, or distilled spirits,
within fix months, in the fame manner, as
though they were imported from a foreign
country : Provided however, such bond shall
be cancelled, if the said master shall deliver,
or cause to be delivered to the collector tak
ing such bond, and within the term therein
limited for payment, a certificate from the
collector or surveyor of the distriCt, from
whence he failed, that such goods were legal
ly exported in such ship or vefiel, from such
diftri<st.
And be it further enaCtcd, That the master
or commander of every foreign ship or vefiel,
bound from a distriCt in the United States, to
any other distriCt within the fame, shall, in all
cases, previous to her departure from such
diftti&, deliver to the collector of such dis
triCt, duplicate manifefts of the lading on
board such ship or vefTe 1, if there be any* or
if there be none, he shall declare that such is
the cafe, and to the truth of such manifefts or
declaration, he flwll swear or afHim, and also
obtain a permit, from the said collector, au
thorizing him to proceed to the place of bis
destination. And the master or commander
of every such ship or vessel, on his arrival
within any dtftrlCt, from any other distriCt,
shall, in all cases, within forty-eight hours af
ter his arrival, and previous to the unlading
any goods from on board such ship or vef&l,
deliver to the collector of the distriCt where
he may have arrived, a manifeft of the goods
laden on board such ship or vessel, if any there
be, or if in baJlaft only, he shall so declare,
and to the truth of which manifeft or declara
tion, he shall swear or affirm; and also, that
such manifeft contains an account of all the
goods, wares, and merchandize, which were
on board such ship or vessel, at the time, or
have been, since her departure from the place,,
from whence ihe shall be reported last to have
failed; and he shall also deliver to such col
lector the permit which was given him from
the collector of the distriCt from whence he"
(ailed. And if the master or commander of
any such ship or vessel, shall negleCt or refufe
complying with any of the requirements here
in made, he shall forfeit one hundred dollars •*
Provided always, That nothing herein con
tained shall be construed as affecting the pay
ment of tonnage, or any other requirements
which such ships or vefleJs are now subjeCt to
by the present existing laws of the United
States.
, And be it further enacted, That in every
cafe where the collector is, by this a&, direct
ed to grant any enrolment, licence, certify
eptm
361
Saturday, April 15, 1793.
cate, permit, or other document, the naval
f ificer. refitting at the port (it' there be one,
itiall sign the lame; and every surveyor who
Ilia!! certify a manilfcft, or grant a. permit, or
who lhall receive anv certified manifefl, or
a permit, as is provided for in this afl,
make monthly returns thereof, or (ooner, if
it can conveniently be made, to the collector
of the diftrtft where fucli surveyor may reside.
And be it further ena&ed, That before any
{hip or veflel, of the burthen of five tons, and
less than twenty tons, fliall be licenced, the
fame admeasurement fliall be made of such
ship or veSel, and the fame provisions observ
ed relative thereto, as are to be oblerved in
cafe of adnseaftiring ships or velfels to be re
gistered or enrolled ; but in al! cases, where
such ship or veflel, or any other licenced ship
or veflel, foall have been once admeasured, it
lhall not be neceflary to measure such ship or
velTel anew, for the purpose of obtaining ano
ther enrolment or licence, except such ship or
veflel lhall have undergone fojne alteration as
to her bnrthen, subsequent to the time of her
former licence.
And be It further enacted, That it lhall be
lawful for any officer of thv; revenue, to go on
board of any ship or vessel, whether she fliall
be within or without his diflrift, and tlwTame
to infpeft, search, and examine; and rf it
shall appear that any breach of the laws of the
United States has been committed, whereby
such ship or vefTet, or the goods, wares and
merchandize on board, or any part thereof,
is, or are liable to forfeiture, to make seizure
of the fame.
And be it further enacted, That in every
cafe, where a forfeiture of any ship or vessel,
or of any goods, wares or merchandize, lhall
accrue, it shall be the duty of the collector,
or other proper officer, who shall give notice
of the seizure of ftich ship or veflel, or of such
goods, wares or merchandize, to insert in the
fame advertisement, the name or names, and
the place or places of residence, of the person
or persons to whom any such ship or veflel,
goods, wares and merchandize belonged, or
were consigned at the time of such seizure, if
the fame shall be known to him.
And be it further enacted, That every
collector, who shall knowingly make any re
cord of enrolment or licence of any ship or
vefTel, and every other officer or person, ap
pointed by, er under them, who lhall make
any record, or grant any certificate, <sr other
document whatever, contrary to the true in
tent and meaning of this ast, or shall take
any other, or greater fees, than are, by this
ast allowed, or shall receive for any service
performed, pursuant to this ast, any reward
or gratuity, and every surveyor, or other per
son appointed to measure ships or vefiels, who
shall wilfully deliver to any collector, or naval
officer a falfe description of any fiiip or veflel,
to be enrolled or licenced, in pursuance of
this ast, shall upon conviction of any such ne
glect or offence, forfeit to the United States
five hundred dollars, and be rendered inca
pable of serving in any office of trust or profit,
under the United States. And if any person,
authorized or required by this ast, in refpeft
to his office, to perform any ast or thing re
quired by this ast, shall wilfully neglect or re
fufe to do and perform the fame, according
to the true intent and meaning of this ast,
such person, on being duly convicted thereof,
if not hereby l'ubjeft to the penalty and dif- ]
qualifications aforefaid, shall forfeit and pay
the sum of five hundred dollars for the firft
offence, and a like futn for the second offence,
and (hall from thenceforward be rendered ill
capable of holding any office of trust or pro
fit under the United States.
And be it farther enacted, That if any per
son or persons, (hall swear, or affirm to any
of the matters, herein required to be verified,
knowing the fame to lie falfe, such person or
persons fliall fuffer the like pains and penalties,
as shall be incurred, by persons committing
wilful and corrupt peijury. Arid if any per
son or persons shall forge, counterfeit, erase,
alter or falfify any enrolment, licence, certi
ficate, permjt, or other document, mention
ed or required in this ast, to be granted by
any officer of the revenue, such person or per
sons, so offending, shall forfeit five hundred
dollars.
And be it further enacted, That if any
person or persons shall aflault, resist, obftruft,
or hinder any officer in the execution of this
ast, or of any other ast or law of the United
States, herein mentioned, or of any of the
powers or authorities veiled in him by this
ast, or any other ast or law, as aforefaid, all
and every person so offl-nding, shall, f'6r eve
ry such offence, for which no other penalty is
particularly provided, forfeit five hundred
dollars.
And be it further enacted, That if any li
cenced ship or veflel, (hall be transferred in
whole, or in part, to any person, whojs not,
at the time of such transfer, a citizen of, and
reQdent within the United States, or if any
such (hip or veflel, shall be employed in any
other trade, than t'jat for which she Is Ucea
• ced, or fliall be found with a surged or alter
ed licence, or one granted far any other ship
or veflel, every such ship or vifTel, with her
fso
[Whole No. 415.]
tackle, apparel and furniture, ami the caj-go
fount) on board liej;, (hall be forfeited.
frovidtd nevertheless, i)nd, "be it further
That in all where the whole
or any part of the lading, or cprgo on board,
any (hip or veffeJ, (hall belong bona fid* to any
perftm or perfont e'her than the jlrafter, own
er, or mariners, of fuel) fhjp or vellil; ai d pp
on which the duties (hall have heen p.reviQiil-
ly paid or secured, according to law, shall be
exempted from any forfeiture under thin
any thing therein contained to the contrary
notwithstanding.
And he it further cna&dd, That the fees
and allowances for the several duties and ier-
vices, to be performed, in virtue of this ast,
Dial) be as follow ; that is to fay :
For admeasuring every Clip or veflel, in
order to the enrolment, or licencing and re-
cording the fame, if of the burthen of five
tons, and less than twenty tons, fifty cents ;
if of twenty tons, and not exceeding seventy
tons, feventy-five cents ; if above seventy
tons, and not exceeding one hundred tons,
one hundred cents ; if above orie hundred
tons, one hundred and fifty cents :
For every certificate of enrolment, fifty
cents :
For every endorsement on a certificate of
enrolment, twenty cents :
For eve'ry licence and granting the fame,
including the bond, if not exceeding twenty
tons, twenty-five cents ; if abpve twenty,
and not more than one hendred tons, fifty
cents ; and if more than one hundred tons,
one hundred cents :
For every endorsement on a licence, twen-
ty cents :
For certifying raantfefts, and granting a
permit for a licenced veflel to proceed from
diftrift to diftrift, twenty-five cents.,, if Jqf#
than fifty tons, and if above fifty tons, fifty
cents :
For receiving a certified tnarrifeft, and
granting a permit, on the arrival of such ves
sel, twenty five cents, if less than fifty tons,
and if above fifty tons, fifty cents :
For certifying manifefts, and granting a
permit for a velTel to proceed from
diitrict to diftrift,one hundred and fifty cent? :
For receiving a certified manifeft, and
granting a permit, on the arrival of such re
gistered veflel, one huntbed and fifty cents :
For granting a permit for a vefTel, not be
longing to a citizen or citizens of the United
States, to proceed from diftridt to diftri(sV,
and receiving the manifeft, two hundred
cents i
For receiving a manifeft, and granting a
permit, to unload, for such lad mentioned
veflel, on her arrival in one diftrift,from ano
ther diftrift, two hundred cents:
For granting a permit for a veflj:l carrying
on the filhery, to trade at a Foreign port,
twenty-five cents, and for the report and en
try of any foreign goods imported in such ves
sel, twenty-five cents.
And where a fuvveyor (hall certify a ni an -
ifeft, or grant a permit, or receive a certifi
ed manifeft and grant a permit, the fees ari
(Tng therefrom, (hall be received by him foe
ly for his use. And a!l other fees anting, by
virtue of this ast, (Uall be received, and ac
counted for, by the col It or, or, at his op
tion, by the naval officer, where there is one,
and where there is a colleSor, naval officer,
and surveyor, fliall j e equally divided, month
ly, between the said officers ; and where there
is no naval crffici r, two thirds to the co'.leftnr,
and the other third to the ftjrveyor ; and
where there is only a collector, he (hall re
ceive the whole amount thereof; aiid,where
there is more than one lurveyor in any disc
trift, each of them (hall receive his propor
tionable part, of such fees, as (hall arise in
the port, for which he is appointed : Provided
always, That in all cases, where the tonnage
of any (hip or veflel, (hall be ascertained, by
any perl'on appointed for that purpose, fucli
person (hall be paid a reasonable compensa
tion therefor, out of the fees aforefaid, be
fore any distribution thereof, as aforefaid ;
and every collector and naval officer, and
every surveyor, who (hall reside at a port,
where there is no collector, (hall cause to be
affixed, and constantly kept, in some eon
fpicuous place of his office, a fair table of the
rates of fees, demandable by this act.
And be it further enacted, That all penal
ties and forfeitures, which (hall be incurred
by virtue and force of this ast, (hall and may
be fticd for, prosecuted and recovered, in
like manner, as penalties and forfeitures, in
curred by virtue of the ast, intituled, "An
ast to regulate the collection of the duties im
posed by law on goods, wares and merchan
dize imported into the United States, and on'
the tonnage of (hips or vessels," may lie sued
for, prosecuted and recovered, and shall be
appropriated in like manner : Provided al
ways, That if any officer, entitled to a part
or (hare of any such penalty or forfeiture,
(hall be neceflary as a witness on the trial for
such penalty or forfeiture, such ofgrer may be
a witness upon the laid ti ial; but in such cafe,
I* lhall not receive, or be entitled to any
part or (hare of rhe fa'd penalty cr foir/evfprtf,
and the part or (hare to whichJje w»uW othr*-wife have been entitled, fliall accrue to the
United States.
And be it further ena&ed, That this ast
(Hall commence, and take effect, from and af
ter the last day of May next, and henceforth,
the ast, intituled, •> An ast for registering
and clearing' v tile Is, regulating the trailing
trade, and for other purposes," (hall be re
pealed, aud tealc to operate, except as to
tae validity oi the legilftn, iccords, enrol,
meiits ami litcnics, with I lie certificates and
uotuinents, which (liall have been done or
{•ranted, in pursuance of thole acls, prior to
the firft day of Ju ;e next, wUi'ch (hall con
tinue to be of the like fcrce and elleft, as if
the laid ails were not repealed - y and except
a'lb, as to the prolecution, recovery and dif
fibution of and for fines, penalties and for
feitures, which may have been incurred, pri
or to tlie firft day of June next, for which
purpole like wile, the laid ast 5 fnall continue
in force.
And be it further enacted, That nothing in
this ait, (hall be construed to extend to any
boat or lignter, not being malted, or if malt
ed, and not decked, employed in the harbor of
any town or city.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
oj the Houjeoj Reprejentatives.
JOHN ADAM. 1 ), Vice-President of the
United States, and Prejident of the Senate.
APPROVED, FEBRUARY t lB, 1793.
GEO. WASHING I ON,
Prejident of the Vuited States.
Foreign Intelligence.
LONDON, Feb. i 3.
THE Pegr], belonging to Ply
mouth, taken by the French,
and valued at 46,000!. is found to
be worth j,oool. She was princi
pally laden with' the baggage of
ioine weft country gentleman, which
was coming to Londoli.
A French privateer attempted to
board the Thane, Smith, for Liver
pool, in the Downs. t
The Conqueft,Cummins, for Ches
ter, was attacked by a row boat off
Dover.
Two cutters at Rye have carried
into that port a large French cutter.
A French ariiied row-boat was
taken dn Tuesday night, and bro't
to Broad Stairs.
No formidable blow has yet been
(truck ou the part of England or
France. Tire Hind sloop has taken
a French schooner, privateer from
Dieppe, mounting four carriage
guns and two swivels, and carrying
jo men. The Hind has sent its
prize to London.
Two lug' fail French privateers
have cajiiuied between the north
Foreland and Margate, a fuiall fliip
and two brigs.
The Badger Excise cutter has tak
en a Calais filhing boat and carried
her into- Dover.
Fib. ij. Stocks have this day ris
en more than one per cent.
The Imperial declaration of war,
in the name of the Germanic em
pire, has just made its appearance.
The King of Pruflia and his ftaff,
have all gone into mourning for
his late Moil Christian Majesty.
It is said that a treaty of marriage
is on the tapis between Richard
Brinfley Sheridan, Esq. and Mi/s
Pamela, a near relation of Philippe
Egaliie, and the companion of Ma
dernoifelle d'OHeans.
In every proceeding from the me
morable 14th of July to the present
moment, the new ulurpers of autho
rity in France have uniformly adopt
ed the system of depredation. It
was not the general welfare of the
public that {breed them up ; it was
an eye which ceitain individuals
had on the property of others, and
having a favorable opportunity to
carry thut plan into execution by
the murmurs of the people at the
enormities of the court party, they
seized a lucky moment, dethroned
the sovereign, made thentf'elves mas
ters of the wealth of the nation, o
bliged those who had riches to fly,
seized upon'their inheritances, and
then parted sentence of death upon
them if they ihould return. Hav
ing thus far carried the point, they
endeavored to seduce the rabble of
other countries to commit similar
infurretftions : for it is the maxim
nf robbers to cry down hone(ty,and
level all mankind to one common
flandard.
An effe£ltial cure for the bite of a
mad frenchman. Mix a grain of
common sense in the milk of human
nature, with two grains of honor
and half a drachm of loyalty : and
let the patient take this, night and
tporning.and lie will be in hisfeiifcs
all day.
. It looks as if the French, in esta
blishing republicanifin, wilhed also*
to bring back paganism. The
cbui ch of St. Genevieve is now call
ed the Pantheon ; and the fii It god
placed there was the god
a god that had he lived a few months
linger would uioll probably have
been hanged.
Since lhe Frei.<h firft swore to es
tablish a constitution, there have
been ;ibout two hundred different Mi
nijiets. I hey are now making ano
ther Conjiitutian ! With what body
of men, or what Minister could any
power in Europe negociate ?
Since the days when Roman de
bauchery, and the abolition of pub
lic and private worlhip unnerved
the aims of that miglny empire
which gave laws to the univerfe,we
have not had so great and fofudden
a Itibverlion of honor, honelty and
virtue in any nation of the world,
as thar which has tumbled France
into its present abyss of barbaril'm.
Tranquility and order are efta
bliflied in every part of Savoy, and
the people happy in their change
of government.
The inhabitants of Constantino
ple have again began toexprefs their
diflatisfaction with the administra
tion ot the Grand Vizier, by letting
fire to the city in the night. Such
are the dreadful effetfis of popular
difconrent, where the people have
no conlVituiional mode of repre
senting rlieir grievances
The French are paying every pos
sible attention ,to the coultrucftion
of the works of Cherbourg, which
had been for a time discontinued,
and ro the repair of tliofe of Dun
kirk. Thele two ports will be the
principal flat ions of their ptiva
teets ; the one opposite to Portl
nrouth, the other to the mouth of
the Thames. Cherbourg will at
this time admit of a {hip of 74 guns.
The Dauphin is lodged in the
Mayor's house until the Convention
determine his fate ; he is prevented
feeing the Oueen— and the mod fa
vorable opinion of his punilhinent
is perpetual imprifomnent.
The last requests of the unfortu
nate Louis breathe the foul of mag
nanimity, an<l a mind enlightened
with the fined ideas of human vir
tue. He appears not to be the man
which his enemies reported. His
heart was found—his head was clear
—and he woqld have reigned with
glory, had he but poflelled those
faults which his aflaflins laid to his
charge. His inind poflefted the ftig
geltions of wisdom ; and even in
his last moments, when the fpiric
of life was winged for another world,
his lips gave utterance to them, and
he fpuke With firmnefs and with re
signation.
Thus has ended the life of Louis
XVI. after a period of four year's
detention, during which he experi
enced from his fubjeifts every spe
cies of ignominy and cruelty which
a people could infli& 0:1 the moll
fangninary tyrant. Louis XVI. who
was proclaimed at t\ie commence
ment of his reign, the Friend ofthe
People, and by the Condiment As
sembly, the Restorer of their Liber
ties— Louis, who but a few years
since was the mod powerful" Mo
narch in Europe, has at lafl perilhed
on the fcaffoid. Neither his own
natural gootfpefs of heart, his de
sire t-o procure the happiness of his
fubjeifts, nor that ancient love which
the French enterr;iined for their
Monarch, has been fufficient to save
him from the fatal judgment.
Confidential letters from France
give ns reason to believe, that the
National Convention will propose
to put up to (ale one fourth of the
lands of the Republic, to defray the
expences of the war. But who will
become the purchasers ? The es
tates of the Emigrants do not find
a marker, for there are no bidders.
On Friday Mr. Flint, the messen
ger, arrived in town with dispatches
from Lord Auckland at the Hague.
Very serious apprehensions are en
tertained of the fuccels of Dumou
rier in Holland, where the fatSious
party rather increases than dimi
niflies ; but, as jet, there is no news
of his irruption into the Dutch ter
ritories.
36 2 -
Orders have been sent from the
Admiralty to Aifanira) Crofby, coin
niandtr in chief of his, Majesty's
(hips at Plymouth, to burn, fini and
dcftroy si) vrflels belonging to. the
French naiion ; -an account having
been received, that a large French
frigate had been ft:en oft 'the God
win.
The Parliament of Ireland having
determined to grant relief' to the
Catholics, they are now turning
their thoughts to the Proteftanc
clergy. It is in contemplation to
equalise all the livings, and to re
duce the number of hilhops ; every
reel or Is to be allowed jool. per ann.
and every curate 2001. per ann.
His Majesty's most gracious answer
to the address of the House of
Lords, prefenced yelterday at St.
James's.
" MyLords,
" I return you my liearty thanks
for tbis very dutiful and afFeiftioii
ate address.
" I receive, with the greatest fa
tisfadlion, the aQurances of thefirui
and effectual fuppoit in the prose
cution of the just and neceflary war
in which I am engaged, in confe
rence of the unprovoked aggrefli
on of France ; aivd I trnft that, by
the blefling of Providence, my ef
forts will be rendered fticcefsful,
for maintaining the rights of my
people, preventing the extension of
anarchy, and contributing to the
ferurity of Europe."
r
The vessel of the late lamented
ilr. llunifey, to fail against wind
and tide has lately been tried, and
was found to fail four knots an hour.
The following is the principle upon
which it moves :—
A pump of two feet diameter,
wrought by a (leant engine, forces
a quantity of water up through the
keel. The valve isthen flint by the
return of the (Iroke, which at the
fame time forces the water through
a channel or pipe of about fix inch
es square, lying above and parallel
to the kelson, out at the stern, un
der the rudder, which has a left dip
than usual to permit the exit of wa
ter. The impetus of the water,
forced through the square channel,
against the exterior water, atfts as
an impelling power upon the tefl'el.
The rumours of yesterday were such as may
beexpe&ed at the present crisis. It was circu
lated, on the one hand, that General Cuftine
and his army had been cut to pieces. It was
fu'ggefted on the other, that General Dumourier
had been surrounded and destroyed by the army
of General Clairfait !
An intelligence more fatisfactory and more
confirmed was received by the Dutch mails of
yesterday. It was then declared, in the strongest
terms, that the division between the Patriots and
the Stadtholder was at an end ; and that the sense
of their common danger had united the people
of Amsterdam in one common bond of union.
The rumours of engagemeuts in the channel,
we cannot fay, from authority, are without
foundation. Several French frigates, and a
number of Englifti traders, have been captured
by that monitor—Report!
An Ambaflador is to be formally announced,
in a few days, from Monsieur, as regent, to the
Court of Great-Britain. The person named, is
the Due d'Harcourt. His reception in the com
bined view of etiquette and political
.will fiirpifh matter of curious observation.
Yesterday M de Curst, Depute des ides du
Vent de I'Amcrique, attended by M. Chev. du
Buc, and Le Baron de Chaefsontaire, lately ar
rived from the French Weft-India settlements,
who have petitioned the administration of this
country to take their persons and property un
der their prote&ion, were presented to the Kmc
at St. James's, by Lord Grenville.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
January 17.
The three defenders of Louis Capet were ad
muted to the bar. One of them, Defize, said,
" Citizens, Representatives, the law and the
deciees havecntrufted to 11s the facrrd funflion
of the aefence of Louis. We come, wifb regret
to present to you the lafl ast of our fuudion!
Louis has given to us his express charge to read
to you a letter signed with his own hand, of
which the following is a copy :
" I owe to my own honor, I owe to my fa.
mily, not to fubferibe to a sentence which de
clares me guilty of a crime of which I cannot
acciilemyfelf. In consequence I appeal to the
nation, from the sentence of its teprefentatives ;
and I commit, by these presents, to the fidelity
ot my defenders, to make known to the Nationnl
Convention this appeal, by all the means in their
power, and to demand that mention of it be
made m the minutes of their fittings.
" Given at Paris, the »6th Jan. '1793.
• n r l. ( Si « n<:d ) LOUIS."
Defeze then relumed the discourse. He re
minded the Assembly that the Decree of Deaih
had only been pronounced by a majority ot five
voices, while the other part of the Assembly
were of opinion that the fafety of the count™
required another decision. He warmly con-
J n, r< i J 1 " '° cxam,ne ancw tl, e queftjon of ap
ih, ft ? i?""''? humanity, to the interest of
rtoufly to' cUim ml ® ht * 0t fwm im P-
Tronchet, mother of the defender, „f i
Capet, protested the D cirr \
the Aflembly hi
should be paired like it, othrr j ' fe, ." cu «
aofolute majority. He d", r|l d ! C ' Ct '' b > -
-he Decree, observing, th " 't* *
had frtved at , h e bafll g of th < P ™< Code
who I,ad pronounced the pumlwT ? ft
•he Aflemblv ought, conC,^.
not to pronounce the puu.lhmcni excelt '
thirds of the voices. P l hytwx>.
Larnaignon Malefoerbes, the . , ,
'b W* «he Convention t 0 aHowZ °n
to-morrow u> p.efen, f„„, c ohfe,,,"'""
kind °l majority, which to him ktjj " "
fary. before sentence fhouW have be
nounced. He resetted tUt he crmia
extempore with f u ffi cicnl facilltv
to explain his ideas. ' e hun
The President inlonned the .l
Convention would takethci, , „ i ' 1,1,1 the
Uvited
vem^S m,iebyß#b " f P i -.^Coo.
I. That the appeal intetpofed by I,Hi„C,Dd
is null, being contrary to the ri.hi, of Vh- P
pte. and to the powe'r u s naStfc
tion ; and that all citizens ate P "
port this appeal, under Dam nit acn|of"p
---» disturbers of public tranquility™* pao ' fl>i:d
11. That there are no grounds f«. ... j
to the remonftrancei of the Counsel o! lS?™*
regard to the nature of the majority whirh rIVI
sentence upon him. J * hich faffed
The discussion of the qucftion, whether it
would be proper to lufpend the execqnon of ,he
sentence palled agamft Louis Capet? was »rf
journed to next day.
The Convention s at eleven at night, after
a fitting which continued thirty-fix hours.
HAGUE, February 5.
This afternoon intelligence wag
received here, that Ruremond has
been raken by the Pruilians, and
that the French lofl a great number
of men.
AMSTERDAM, Feb. 7,
On the 2d inft. his royal hijrhneCi
Prince Frederick ofßrunfwick efta
hliflied his head quarters in the city
ofGueldres. The French retireon
all fides at the approach of the Pruf
(ians, who have already formed a
jonrtion with the advanced polls of
the Aufhian general Count de Clair,
fait. The army of the latterisftid
to consist of 45,000 efFeifiive men.
The present state of the Ruffian
fleet in the black sea, underthecom
mand of Rear Admiral Ribas, who
has received orders to fail on a fe
crct expedition, is as follows : Six
teen ships of the line, one of which
carries 80guns ; fourlargefrigates;
two smaller ones ; fr»e ai meA bn«t•„
a bomb vefiel, and several firefhips
anfl armed transports. At Nicolai
and Chei son, several Ruffian fliipt
of the line and frigates are con
ftruc r ting.
Domestic Articles.
BALTIMORE, April 9 .
Yesterday arrived here,fromMar
feilles, in France, the ship Harmo
ny, Capt. Wilfiam Robinson, which
place he lefr on the rjth of Febru
ary— Capt. Robinson put into Gib
raltar, which place he left on the
26th of February—He informs, that
oil the 71 It of February,the harbor
mailer of Marseilles received orders
to unfliip the rudders of the En
glilh anil Durcli vellels in that port,
and accordingly did fo—Thar as
fofliitas the news of war readied
Marseilles, they imniediarely began
fitting out privateers—That two
privateers failed in company with
the Harmony from Marseilles—That
in three'days after Capt. Robinson
failed, there would be ready fir
sea upwards of 18 fail out of that
port, from 4 to 24 guns each—That
on the 20th of Feb. a French piiva
ccer of r 4 guns, fell in with fix fall
of English and Dutch off Cape Palos;
took five, and one brig made heref
cape to Gibraltar.
From a Corrcfpondetit.
Notwithstanding ihe fa (filiating
power of the words Liberty and
Equality human nature recoils with
horror at the late maflacre of Louis
the XVlth ; and the hiftoiy of the
present day mud (lamp a complexi
on so fangiiioary on the French na
tion, that time (hall not, for cento
ries,be capable of effacing ir. Whilst
Amcr'tca views with delegation and
anxiety, the bloody scenes now act
ing on the theatre of Europe, let it
be her care to avert ihofe evils, by
declining all interference in the
contention ; Jet her circling arms
of peace embrace the whole world,
and her doors of hofpitaliry fly open
to diftrefled flrangers, of all nati
ons, whatever be the motives wjiichpropels them to us. Thus, while
" the cloud-cap'd Towers aud gor
geous Palaces" of transatlantic coun
tries are haltening to ruin, we shall
be advancing in universal ellimati
on, and enjoy thole bleflings which
a free conftituiion and extensive po
pulation is best calculated to pro
mote.
On Tuesday last the President of
the United Slates arrived in good
health, ac Mount Vernon.
B OST T O N, March 30.
A letter trom L'Orient, dated Ja'll. 2, 1793,
received via Cadiz, informs, 44 Among the
great changes iu the affairs of the new govern
ment, your friend M. Dcletombe, Consul at
Bo ft on, is called home, and M. Dennet y is ap
pointed Consul-General lor the Republic of
France, and is to reside in Boston. There is to
be but one Consul in America."
TRIBUTE OF RESPECT.
The melancholy fare of the firft PrincHy
Hand which was ftrerched forth to relive America
i»i the hour of her distress, being now alcer
tained, we hear that the commit toe who super
intended the Ox Procession, have reqnefted that
the Head and Hoi as of that Vi£lim which are
now placed on the flag-ftaff at Liberty-Square,
(houid be put in mourning this morning, with
the colouis h4lf ftaff high : and that at five
o'clock in the afternoon, the flag ftafF be cut
down, dropped in the dock, and with the head
and horns, be there buried—as an evidence of
the truth of that assertion of the patriotic Paine,
in the French National Convention —That the
free Americans consider themselves indebted to LOUIS
Jor their Liberty-"-and that the news of his execu
tion has given them great pain.
Mr. Paine has done himfelf great honor in his
} verdtfr on the fate of LOUIS the XVI. and has
therein expreflcd the sentiments of nine-tenths
of The People oj the United States ', who, with the
liveliest emot on of pain and legret, lament the
untimely end of their friend and deliverer.
•' ■ »
WORCESTER, April 4.
The death of the unfortunate Louis XVI.
"will probably draw upon the French Republic
the resentment of some Kingdoms, which, had
it not been for that event, would have remained
in a state of neutrality ; so that it is hardly to
be doubted that Euiope will be involved in a
general and very bloody War this summer.—
But, although the benevolent mind cannot but
be deeply affe&ed with the misfortunes of a
man whoever wished to merit the character of
the Father and Friend of his people ; yet it is tar
from being desirable that despotic power should
prrvail against the cause of Freedom; and it must
still be hoped, that the 4 French nation will be
able to efta\>lifh a form of government which
will effe&ually secure the lights of man.
STOCKBKIDGE (Mass.) April 2.
The accounts refpetting the murder of
Louis XVI. appear to be so well attested,
that humanity has not one cheating ray of
hope to enliven a probability that the intelli
gence is founded in error. The cruel an<i un
just affajjinauon of the late unfortunate Mo
narch, mufr ltamp indelible infamy on the
tranfa&ions of that ferocious party who, at
prelent, (way a many-headed monster of power
in the Gallic Nation—while history records
the unjust and bloody deed, an ir.dignant pos
terity will execrate the authors of it, to the
latest period of time. Those vehicles of abnfe
in our own country, which are conftant'v em
ployed in reviling the American Government,
and aspersing the chara&ers of its ablest sup
porters, its real and only friends, have alrea
dy began to croak their applause on tin? occa
sion, and to echo the huzzas of the " cut throats"
of Paris, at the melancholy exit of Loiis—
To steel the heart against every generous and
humane feeling—to bar the avenue to pity
itfelf, the crimes of despotism and tyranny,
are, by them, attached to the chara<ster of
our late good ally and friend—The exercise
of hereditary power was by btrch allotted to
the monarch, but a tyrannical use of it was
never laid to his charge, till party vengeance
deprived him of that freedom whose birth he
cherished—'till malignant fury exiled him
from the sweets of domestic life, and limited
the sphere of his liberty, to the confines of a
prison yard. 1 n the firft ft ages of the Ftench
Revolution, Louis avowed himfelf a friend to
liberty—and, at his positive command, the
Nobles aud Bishops were incorporated with
the reprefentativesof the people, one Aflem
bly—'Tis tru«, at a dark period, when it
fee rued the determination of a violent party
to facrifice nlmoft moderate man, »|.
nioft every owner of extensive poifelFrons,
Louis was persuaded seek fafety by flight
-—this fee in? to be the only material charge
supported against him on his late trial, where
his Judges were his ficcufers. But it will be
remembered, that at that period, many of the
promoters of liberty, Tome of the moil cele
brated Gallic patriots, thought their only
fafety confided in a voluntary exile from their
native country. The late French King un
doubtedly had faults, but they were such as
gratitude ought to have consigned to oblivion,
in confideratioti of the mnft important ser
vices rendered to his country in the cause of
freedom—and to the candid and unpreju
diced, who view ohjefts not through the me
dium of paflioo and party, his death must ap
pear a facrifice to the dilates of savage, un
relent ng barbarism, notwithttanding the ap
pianfe bestowed upon his alTaffins, by the de
tainers and flandcrers of our own free and
b*PP>' government.
American! attire liberty, and justly efti
mat? the excellent constitution which, thru'
the voice of th .ir freely elected delegate;, was
formed for the proteftjon and fecut ityofevery
blcffiug which freemen hold dear. The nfe
of that power which they have entruftcd to
their rulers, has been fiich aj to afford high
OtUfa&iou to the majority of tlia citizeni of
the American .Republic, although a set of un
principled slanderers, have made the Govern
ment, its operations, and the officers adtiug
under it, the themes of their defamatory
abule, from its commencement to the prelent
day—The views of this Government defam
ing cabal, seem extended only to the promo
tion of anarchy and confufion—every blow
aimed at real good order and rational liberty,
is trumpeted by them as a deed of patriotism
—every falfe construction of the true intent
and meaning of the laws, and every essay to
mislead the uninformed mind, is celebrated
with all the pomp and parade of levelling eloquence
—While on the other hand, tbofc who are
friendly to the administration of a wife, free,
energetic government, are ftiled the abettors
of delpotiim, favourers of absolute, uncon
trouled power, and charged with a design of
forging yokes for necks of freemen.—Even
the humane regret which has been expreflVd
for the unmerited, undeserved fate of Louis
XVI. is declared criminal, while the bloOd
feeking dagger of the a (Tallin, is denominated
the sword of regenerating, French freedom—
Pretended astonishment is exprefcfed that Ame
ricans can regret the fate of a Tyrant—the
fate of a Tyrant is nor the fubjecfc of regret
but the misfortunes of a Monarch whose heart
was ever foftened at the fight.of misery, and
whose good intentions for the welfare of his
people were once the theme of their univer
sal applatife, and whose interference in their
favor in a day of political darkness and gloom,
surely demands one generous sigh, one.
MANLY TEAR.
But astonishment and horror may both be
justly excited, when a Marat, a Roberfpierre,
and a Thwiot* can find applauders in this, or
in any other civilized country. Yet the
source from whence it springs, will undoubt
edly ifTue new encomiums on the conduct bf
Philip Equality,f and dub him as the firft of pa
triots, for his.late violation of eyery feeling
that does honor to the human heart—and if
so, may we not rationally conclude, that to
obtain the praises of zvh>Jkry-men t atTting in op
position to the laws of our country, neither
fathers, brothers, or sons, would escape the
lafli of the vilest abuse, even if they ftiould
not be fubje&ed to the power ofafTaffms.—
Time will operate convittion—and the com
munity at length be enabled (if they are not
already) to distinguish between the friends of
well regulated liberty, order and justice, and
the abettors of tumult, anarchy and confufion
—the former will be rewarded with addi
tional confidence, and the latter meet the
contempt and scorn they richly merit.
* Threejuriousanarchijls, and members of the
French Convention.
+ Formerly Duke of Orleans, and Uncle to the
late French King.
N E W-Y O R K, April 10.
Weundeiftmd that there are letters received
in this cifv from Dublin, per the Atalanta,
which mention that General Dnmourier had
taken Rotterdam from the Dutch. Captain
Hawley'makes »io mention of this particular.
Yesterday as one of the Elizahethtown ferry
boats was crofiiug the bay (lie accidentally
funk ; ievcral persons who were on board were
taken up and saved ; but Mrs. Maclefco, wife of
Mr. Charles Maclean, grocer at White-hall Dork,
being in the cabin w;as unfortunately drowned.
For ti
GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
r ocean has been always infected by
A certain ominous birds, known to the
American sailors by the name of Mother Ca
-ley s Chickens. Previous to a storm, they
often fur round a ship, with the molt discor
dant accents, chattering, screaming, scolding
and singing. 11l weather and ill luck always
follow. The itonteft seamen are terrified at
their appearance, and no one dares to climb
the fin ouds, or even to handle a rope, while
they continue around the ship. Not Dav*y
the demon of the waters, infpiresmore
terror than these boding chatterers. The
horror and detestation with which they are
viewed, has hitherto prevented an accurate
investigation of their shape, size, and nature.
But we are informed that a certain great mo
dern philosopher and politician, has latelv got
a small brood of them into his pofleflion.' He
finds they are of the fame species as the Par
rot, and are readily taught to utter any arti
culate founds, which they will repeat with
incessant chattering—though he is not yet
able to discover, whether thev have a)iy com.
prehenf.on of the meaning. He also finds that
they poltefs the power of divination in a
greater degree than the holy Chickens which
were preserved with such attention by the
College of Augurs, in antient Rome.—We
understand that he means speedily to publish
an accurate defci iption of these extraordi
nary animals, together with a volume of the
oracles they have uttered, while in his coop,
which he as far superior to the
Sibylline oraclcs, or to auy of the antient pro
phecies once revered, but now happily ex
ploded by modern philosophy. He intends
also to ftufif the skin of the Ur»eft, after the
mode invented by Monsieur Valiant, and pre
sent it to Mr. Peale's Museum. Every lover
of natural history, and particularly of orni
thology, with impatience for these in
teresting productions. In the mean time, the
public may receive some further light on the
fubjeft, from the following
ixtraa oj a httrditcd on hoard the Federal Ship,
in the Latitude uj Philadelphia
" Dea* StR,
" Lift night, as we were going on under an
easy fail, after mod of the crew were turned
in, we were all at once alarmed by a most
horrid nniftf, and found ourselves furrotinded
by Mother Carey's Chickens. While the fonnds
we'e diftaor, they refemblid the notes of
a Jack-Aft, who bad learned to imitate the
tunes «f a Caterwaulinj—but as they ap
363
proached nearer, we were astonished to hear
a variety of articulate founds, repeated with
as much rapidity as the speeches of King
Gtorge.Vn Peter Pjndar—Amidit all the confu
fion, we could distinguish the words—" Aris
tocrat! Aristocrat I Hell of Monarchy ! Salh
and Ribband ! Apollyon son of Belial ! Trea
sury Blood-Tucker ! Light out of Chaos ! Poor
Soldier ! Liberty and Equality ! Down with
the Prefklent ! Down with the Aristocrats !
&rc." Our crew turned out with the utmost
confternaticn—fome crept under the hatches;
one of the officers proposed to fire all the can
non in the Ihip—but he was aflured by the
old Teamen, that these birds were sacred to
the furies, and that our instant deftru&ion
would be the consequence of any hostile attack.
Jemmy Turncoat ran below deck with a
hatchet, in a fit of delirium, and would have
fcuttlcd the Ihip, if he had not been prevented
by his comrades. Qthers walked up and
down the deck, wringing their hands, and
making the nioft doleful speeches imaginable.—
But the Captain and most of the officers con
tinued firm and steady—-it was agreed that
we ihould lie too and wait the event. The
Chickens growing bolder, advanced to the
fides of the (hip. One of them exclaimed,
that he was a member of the honorable order
of the Goose, lately instituted in honor of the
Goole who saved the Capitol, and that he was
to be placed as a guard in the Federal City—
he displayed two feathers in lus tail, as the
insignia of his office. Another alighted on the
bow-sprit, and began to address us in a set
speech, as follows :—" Arrah by my Jhoul t Citi
zens andCiUjfes"—But having a tpuch of the
brogue, he made such horrid work in pro
nouncing the words Citizen and Citefles, that
even they who were most terrified, could not
refrain from laughing. One clapping his
wings at the fonthward of the ship, warbled
out an hymn to Pocahontas, the tutelary Saint
of Virginia, who presided at the Federal
Elettion. One being mounted on the main
-mail-, ftuig in mournful notes the death and
apotheosis of Peter Pendulum—after which he
announced himfelfas King killer General, and
affirmed that Paine and Petion acted solely by
his ini'piration. At length, at a given signal,
they all rose on the wing, and went off tinging
Lillibullero in concert, leaving behind, like
the harpies, a most terrible stench, and our
decks all covered with their ordure. We
have ever since had dangerous weather, and
there is every appearance of a storm from
the south. We trust, however, to be able to
weather the squall, aiid (b God fend the good
ship to her destined port. Your's, &c.''
The publisher of the foregoing letter adds,
that in his opinion, these ill-boding Chickens
are the fame creatures as the Grccian Har
pifc% whom they resemble completely in man
ners, habits, and the prophetic spirit. In
proof of which he refers us tb y?rgil's descrip
tion of them, in the 3d book of the Eneid.
FROM THE NORTH-CAROLINA JOURNAL,
Mr. Hodoe,
The writer of the following lives is no friend to
Kings : He is the friend of human life. He how
ever considers his country under obligations to the
last King of the French, and in common with the
Jrecy the difpuj/ionate and thegrattjulofhis coun
trymen, pours forth the tribute oj rejpe&ful pity
to the manes of the d'colated Monarch. In com
mon a!fo with the phihfopher, the philanthropesl t
and the politician, he declares his indignation and
hts for row are equally awakmed, that the progress
o! Libertx fliould be dif graced with the biood of a
Kingy whoje errors have arijen move fro t* ftuation
than from principle.
DEATH OF LOUIS XVI.
THEY. y King of Sorrows, (hall my verfebewail*
Tho' France an impious hand may raise,
Thou fhalt not want the Stranger's ptaife,
Who marks,with Pity's pen,thy melancholy tale.
Sad Motiaich, like Darius great and good^
Like him abandon'd, left by all,
Who Hand aloof, and fee thee fall—
FallJ von thy high efiate and welter in thy blood, t
Imagination, borne on rapid wing,
Flies o'er the broad Atlantic wave,
Starts at thy undefeived grave,
And vents her anguish for the martyr'd King.
She fees, around the crimfon'd fcaffold stand,
Democracy with furious eye,
Delirious Rage, pale Jealoufy y
Whiie joyous Murder crowns her regicidal band.
Fair Freedom, watchful of her ha How 'd fame,
Grieves to behold the purple flood —
She fees herfootfeps ftain'd with blood,
And hides herblufhes at the deed of Shame.
In Sorrow*s prison, by Diflrefs laid low,
The frafrtic Queen despairing lies.
Hark ! to the defolatinjj cries !
Loud she laments, 44 nor J mall her cause of zuoeJ n \
Columbia, too, (hall raise fhetrophied urn,
(By Love, CompaJJton, Gratitude,
Invited from the rabble rude)
And wand'fer ott, her Royal Friend to mourn.
Sleep, Louis,fleep in dust profound,
And, with thy short life*s varied woes,
May cruel Hate and Madness cJofe,
Nor black Revenue defame, uor Malice foam
around. COLUMBUS.
Halifax % April 1
NOT Eft AND IMITATIONS.
* • Thee, Queen of pathos,fhall my frond verse hail.*
Delia Ciufca.
+ « He fang great and good,
By too fever t a fate.
fallen, fallen, falUn, fallen,
Fallen from his high cjlafe y
And weltering in his. b!ot>d>
Defertcd at his utmofi need,
by those his former bounty fed' Diyder.
J•1 an fad. Kor small is my cause of wo?.' OfTuo.
Philadelphia, April 15.
The Atalanta, Hawlev, from London, and
the New-York., Smith, frofn Dublin, ate arri
ved «i*» Xcw Yojk, but co not bring later advi
ces than thofc by the Adriana, from Liverpool.
The Captain of a French privateer which
boarded the New-York off Falmouth, informtd
Capt. Smith that the late Queen of France h.qd
been poisoned.
Captain Robinfnt),arrived at Baltimore.from
Marls iiles, (ays that ihe rejoicings '»» account of
the <xexution of Louis the XVlih continued
thrre weeks at Maifcilles.
By accounts juit received from Georgia, it
appears that a body of" Indians from Florida
had crofled the line, and committed rtepieda
tions and minderi in fbat state. Two (tores
have heen pinndered by them of property to a
considerable amonnr, and the lfrore-keepers
and other persons murdered. The Indians
were pursued, but escaped to Florida with
their plunder.
Speaking of the defam«r* of the fate King of
France in this a writer in a Baltimore
paper fays—l will only observe, that there will
be found in a)! countries, and at all periods, to
the dtfgiace of humanity, men, who will be
ready to do the duties of the executioner, let
the.condemned be guilty or innocent.
Thursday last the Legislature of this State
adjourned to August next.
We hear that the furniture of Lord Barti
more's Theatre has been purehafed for the New
Company here, and that it is received by the
George Barclay.
Paflengers in the (hip George Barclay, Captain
Collet, from London.
Mr. and Mrs. Parker, Mr. Carr, Mr. White
fides, Mr. Mollis. Mr. May, Mr. Hall, Mr.
Choice, Mr. and Mrs. Chapman, Mr. Hill, Mr.
Powcl, (en. Mr. Powel, jun. Mr. Bnnwi« k, Mr.
and Ms?. Redman, Miss. M. Redman, Mils A.
Rodman, Miss C. Redman, Mi. Chapman,"jun.
Mils Chapman, ana a rtumber of ftterage pail
erigers.
in the ha>roony, from London,
Mr. Devonald, Mi. G-tlpin, Mr. Famold,
Mr. Fry and I.ady, Mr. Sargan, Mr. Gill, Mr.
Draper, Mr. Ballon, Mr. Handling, Mr. Si,bald,
his Lady and five children, and fcvcral others.
FAT OXEN
Wednesday last, two extraordinary fine Oxen
were exhibited in the streets of this citv.
They were fattened by Mr. James Cooper, of
NeW-Jeifey, and weighed at the Northern Li
berty scales in ihc prefeoce of Mr. Michael
Wots.
The fijft weighed
The second
Total 4,6881b.
Thev are to be flanghtered, and the beef fold
in the Pcnufylvania market this day, at tlalls No.
34 37-
At rh'e present interesting period, ihe following
account of the number of Epglifh fquaie
miles in the several Governments of Europe,
may be ufeful.
[From A. F. W. C Rome's " New Commercial Slab
of Europe."]
P' n ß'f? uare ™Hcs. Evg.fquare miles^
England 66,444 Denmark 17,596
Scotland 34,844 Norway *52,444
Ireland 32,408 Iceland 50,887
Portugal 37)267 Sweden 282,403
Spain 202,046 Ruflia i*593«345
France 217,777 Poland 218,866
Switzerland 30,819 Courland 5*506
Italy (without Prnflia 2)5.394
the Islands) 96.873 Gallizia and
Sicily 12,544 Lodomeria
Sardinia 9*,58e Huug;>r/ (with
Corsica 4>2i9 the Buicowina)9s,3s4
M«lta 163 Turkey in Eu-
Holiahd 13,611 rope
Germany 261.333 Crimea
ARRIVEDof MfPORTi?/ PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Camilb, Williams! Dublin
Brig Molly, JUzcr, Port-au-Prince
Pomona, Baird, Falmouth (G. B.)
Hope, Luce, Boftou
Poltv, Stephens, Curacoa
, Howland, Sc. M«ic
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, 17[6
3 per Cents, 9/10
Deferred, ic>J6
Full /hares Bank U. S. 8 per c«*nr prem
TO THOSE CONCERNED IN MILLS IN
THE UNITED STATES.
OLIVER EVANS, late oi the state of Dela
ware, informs ihe public, that he has re
moved to Philadelphia, No 437, NorthSicond
ftreet, where he will thankfully receive any
applications,for the use of his Patent Improve*,
mintson Mills, and the ait of manufacturing
Flour. He will fumifti those who are not fuffi
cicntly acquainted with the principles of his im
provements, with drawings and descriptions,
that will enable them to erett all the different
machines neceflary to peiform the operations of
cleaning, grinding, boulting, and of boulcing
over the middlings or coarse meal, and grinding
it over with the grain, so as to finifh all together,
thereby making the greatest quantity of fupcrfine
flour that the grain will produce at onC opera
tion.— He has been at much expense in col2e&-
ing the different and moil approved conftru&ions
of mills and plans for boulting, and the quality,
fi/.e, and manner of drefling the mill-ftonc», suit
able to the power of the mill, and quality of the
grain : and will aflift in planning mills from
the foundation, and make drawings thereof, if
required. He has for sale, Boulting Cloths and
Mill-Srones, of the firft quaiity, at the lowest
priccs, which he will warrant. If the Rones
prove not good, they will be received again,
and the cost of carriage paid. Those who ap
ply for either (tones or cloths, will please to
mention the power of tbr mill, size of the
boulting-reels, quality of the grain, and on what
business ' t is to run. Orders by post, or other,
wife, will be as punctually attended to as if the
parries were present.
Philadelphia, April 13.
2,4481b,
2,240
26,133
348,495
•13>'73
UW3WFor the GAZETTE of the UNITED STATES.
THOUGHTS ON THE
STATE OF AMERICAN INDIANS.
(Continued Iron No. 7%, of this Gazette.)
No. hi.
ANOTHER caDfe which l»a» re
tarded Ihe progress of focipty
and manners among the Indiafis, a -
rises from the diminution of their
numbers. Whatever has contribut
««l in any degree 10 this efteii, has
an indirect influence in preventing
their improvement—These inciden
tal causes are derived from the de
cay of the sources of subsistence—
the multiplication of wars—the use
of spirituous liquors, and the intro
duction of new diseases. The ordi
nary employments of a people 111 uft
be overltocked, before they will
turn their attention to other spe
cies of industry—and the common
sources of subsistence must be ex
handed, before they will seek to
procure other means of support.
The prefling calls of hunger only
can excite a spirit of enterprize and
innovation among a people natural
ly ignorant, and averse from ?iny
kind of employment that requires
much labor and confinement.
A nation of hunters, in the ordi
nary progress of society, must be
come too numerous to subsist upon
the ordinary product of the chafe,
before they will become shepherds,
or seek subsistence from the foil—
These different ltages in society na
tnrally succeed in «rder, as popula
tion increases and a. larger fund of
provision become* requisite—The
fame extent of country which is ne
cefTary to support a few hnnters,will
maintain a larger proportion of shep
herds, and a (till greater number of
huibandmen.
The increase of the human spe
cies is, in all ordinary cases, in pro
portion to the means of subsistence.
A favorable climate, a fertile foil,
easy means of procuring food, pro
vision for the aged and infirm, and
finiplicity of talle and manners, en
courage marriage, and rapidly ac
celerate the multiplication of man
kind—The fame causes produce the
fame effecft in the civil and savage
date—ln proportion as these ope
rate, they multiply andprogiefs to
wards civilization. The liiftory of
the population of Egypt, of India,
of China, of Greece, of Rome, and
particularly qf all new-fetiled coun
tries ill uft rate and confirm these re
marks.
Hunting and fifhing are the prin
cipal sources of support among . sa
vage nations—the latter affords a
more easy, certain and plentiful Alp
ply than the former—lt is on this
account, that in all new countries
the coasts and branches of large ri
vers are stored with inhabitants—
Illands for the fame reason are more
populous in proportion to their ex
tent, than countries of the fame di
mensions on the continent. At the
time of the discovery of this coun
try, the natives drew their support
principally from these two sources
—The whole coast and the banks of
rivets were then peopled—and the
remaining monuments of their
towns, and the rude instruments of
art which are daily difcovered,prove
that their numbers were very con
siderable—The frequent emigrati
ons and rapid increase of the whites,
soon disturbed the fettlemenrs of the
natives, and finally removed them
from the coast.—Thus the geoeral
settlement of this country utterly
cut off one source of the Indians'fup
port ; and the growing improve
ment and cultivation of the coun
try, have ever since been diminish
ing and impoverishing the other—
To these we may add the influence
of a more unfavorable climate, in
increasing the neceflity of further
and more difficult precautions to de
fend themfeNes againfl the incle
mency ofthe feafons--in augmenting
the neceflity of a larger support
while at the fame time it diminishes
the fonrres of supply, by lessening
the number, size- and nutritive vir
tue of the animals which furnifh it
—and by rendering it more difficult
to procure them.
It is unneceflary to enter into a
detail oftheinnuraerable evils which
have resulted from the diminution
of thofjs fourccs from wliicji they
formerly must have derived an easy
and abundant fubfillence.
The increased difficulty and un
certainty of procuring food, null
neceflarily render them averie from
the incumbrance of a family—mar
riage becomes lets desirable, and
children become a burden rather
than an ornament and blcfling —
tbe quality of their food is inipo
verilfjcd—is less favorable to propa
gation, and yields less nutriment to
the offspring.
A scarcity of gamp also expoles
them to the miseries of famine, and
unfavorable seasons fubjetft them to
numberless evils and inconvenienc
es which they cannot forefee, and
against which they are unable to
provide—The necessity of spending
more time in the chafe than when
game was more plenty, gives an un
favorable complexion to their man
ners —renders them more ferocious
—less susceptible of the feelings of
humanity, and more infenlible to
the allurements of civilized life.
Morse's Geography,
Revised, corrclted, and grimly enlarged, with many
additional Maps, well engraved.
In a tew weeks will be published.
B* THOMAS and ANDREWS, Fault's Stalue,
No. 45, Newbury-Street, Boston,
In t wo Volumes, large Odavo.
ANEW Edition of the AMERICAN
GEOGRAPHY: Being the largest
and the btft system of Geography eves pub
liftied : Or a complete GEOGRAPHY of the
WORLD, brought down to the present time.
IN TWO PARTS.
The General Contents are—
PART 1.-Ot AQronomy,asconne6ted with,
and introductory to the science of Geography :
under this head will be given an account of the
leveral agronomical systems of the Werld, and
a particular defcriytion of the true one. A table
of the diameters, periods, See. of the several
Planets in the solar system—an account of the
Comets and fixed stars.
Of Geography—its use and progress—
figure, magnitude and motion of the Earth—
Doftrine'of the Sphere— Geographical circles—
Divisions of the Earth into zones and climates
—methods of finding the latitude and longitude
of places from celestial observations—Globes,
and (heir use—with a number of the mod ufe
ful and entertaining Geographical Problems and
Theorems—Maps, and their use—sources of heat
and cold—theory of the winds and tides —length
of miles in different countries—natural divisions
of the Earth—accounl of the Gregorian or new
stile, &c.
America —Its discovery by Columbus-—
general description of the Continent, in which is
a lengthy difcuflion of the question, When,
whence, and by whom, was America firft peo
pled ? With a long and entertaining account of
the Indians,and the late discoveries on the north
west coast, Sez.—North America—chrono
logical account of its discovery and fcttlements,
its divisions — Danxsh America, British
America, United States of America—
general description of them, including a history
of the late war, and many other ufeful and en.
tertaining matters. South Amer i ca—its di
visions, particular description of its several pro
vinces and countiics. West India Islands,
Sec
This part of the work will be illustrated
by Djaps of the countries described, from the
correfteft copies.
PART ll,— Containing every thing eflential
which is contained in the bed and latclt quarto
edition of Guthrie's and other Britilh Geogra
phies, with fele&ions from celebrated naviga
toTS, travellers and Tefpe&able authors of other
nations, Sec.
Of Europe in general—its grand divisions,
particular geographical descriptions of its seve
ral Kingdoms and Republics, See. Of Asia —
its situation, boundaries, general history, parti
cular descriptions of its several divisions, See.
Of Africa—its general history, boundaries,
grand divisions, Sec. Also, new discoveries,
Terra Incognita, Geographical Table, alphabe
tically arranged—Chronological Table of re
markable events, discoveries and inventions, lift
of men of learning and genius, with other ufelul
miscellany.
%* This part will also be illustrated with
maps of ihe countries described.
TO THE PUBLIC
THE Authoi is sensible that the filft edition
of his American Geography (which makes Part
I. of the above work) was in many instances de
leflive, in others erroneous, and in some often-*
five. It has been his endeavour, as it was his
desire, in the present edition, to lupplv the defi
ciencies, correct the errors, and meliorate the
offenfive parts of the last. To aflift him in this
butinefs, he has received many valuable commu
nications from the heads of department in the
general government, and from gentlemen of re
fpeftability in the several states. The descrip
tion of foreign countiies (which cornpofes Part
11. of the above work) has been carefully, com
piled from the mod approved writers on Geo
graphy, and ufelul information introduced from
the discoveries of the latest Navigators, Travel
lers, and relpe&able authors. Indeed, no pains
nor expenfc have been spared to render this work
the mod complete, accurate, and ufeful of any
ever offered to the public.
TICKETS
In the FEDERAL CITT LOTTERY,
May be had at SAMUEL COOPER'S Terry.
364
BANK OF THE UNITEDSTATES.
R ISO L V EC,
THAT any person residing to furape, who
shall authorize the Freftdent, Dirc£ors and
Company of the Bank. ol the United States, to
receive annuities, or Interest ariDng from the
public debt of the United States of America,
(hall from time to time h«ive authority to draw
on the said Frcftcjent, Dire&ors and Company,
to the amount of the monies by them received,
which drafts (hall be paid without dedu&ion
and tree of expence—Or,
The Prcfident, Directors and Company, if re
quested, will remit the monies \ y them received
to any part of Europe, free of ex pence and with
out deduction, in Bills of Exchange at their cur
rent value, and at therifkot the peifonto whom
the fame shall be remitted.
By the J*rcfident and Directors,
ow JOHN KEAX. Cafhicr,
City of Walhington.
January 7111, 1793.
A NUMBER of Lots in this Ciiy will be of
fered lor sale at ati&ion, by the Commif
fiouers, on the 17th day of September next. —
One fourth part of the purchase money is to be
paid down, the refidueat three equal annual pay
ments with yearly interefton the whole princi
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk to the Com'rs.
Extrafct of an A£l of the General Aflembly of
Maryland, concerning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and the City of Walhington.
M Be it enaftcd, That any foreigner may by
deed or wifl t hereafter to be made. take and hold lands
withrn that part 0} the jaid Territory which ties with
in this State, in the fame manner as if he was a citi
zen of this State ; and the fame lands may be con
veyed by him t and transmitted to and be inherited by
his heirs or relations, as if he and they were citizcns
of th?) State : Provided, That no foreigner f/iall,
in virtue hereof\ be entitled to any further or other
privilege of a citizen
J™- '9'
District of Pennsylvania, to wit.
T> E IT REMEMBERED, That on
(Seal, j 13 the thirteenth day of March, in
/ the seventeenth year of the Indepen
dence of the United States of America,
Thomas Dobson, of the said DistriCt, hath dr.
pofitcd in tins Office, the Title of a Book, the
Right whereof he claims as Proprietor, in the
words following, to wit.
11 An Enquiry how Jar the Punishment of Death
lt is necejfary in Pennsylvania. With Notes and
*' Illujlrations. By William Bradford, Esq.
« To which is added, an Account of the Gaol and
" Penitentiary House of Philadelphia, and of the
" interior Management thereof. By Caleb
«• Lownes, 0/ Philadelphia\ If zOe enquire
" into the Causes of oil human Corruptions, we
" /hallfind that they proceed from the Impunity
" of Crimes, and not from the Moderation of Pu
•• r.ifhments." Montefq.
In conformity to the Att of the Congress of
the United States, intituled, 41 An Ast for, the
Encouragement of Learning, by securing the
Copies of Maps, Charts and Books, to the Au
thors and Proprietors of such Copies, dining the
Times therein mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
"Clerk of the Dlfirift of Pennsylvania,
(£3T The above work is fold in Charlejlon by
William Price Young : Richmond, by Archibald
Currie : Baltimore, by James Rice : New-York,
by Thomas Allen : Boftov y by David Weft.
Vinall's Arithmetic.
THE Second Edition of this work, with im
provements, will speedily be put to J?vfs.
The rapid sale of the firft edition*, greatly be
yond the author's most sanguine cxpc&ations,
encourages him to print a second edition. He
intends to have it printed upon much better pa
per than the former, and with a Dew type.
Those Booksellers who wifli to take a num.
ber of copies in (beets, are rcquefted- to apply to
the author for particulars.
* 1000 Copies
At a meeting of the School Committee
February s ih, 1793.
The Committee, appointed to examine " The
Preceptor's Afliftanr, or Student's Guide," being
a systematical treatise of Arithmetic, by John
Vinall, teacher of the Mathematics Se Writ
ing, in Bolfon, reported, that they have attended
that service, and are of opinion, that the work
is executed with judgment, and is as well calcu
lated for the use of schools, counting houses, and
private families, as any of the fame compass
that has hitherto been offered to the public.
Voted, That the above report be accepted,
and that Mr. Vinall be furniQied with a copy
of it, whenever he (hall desire it.
Copy of the Records. Attest,
CHARLES BULFINCH, Sec'ry.
The following character of the above work,
is given in the Review of the Majachvfetts Ma-
for Jan. 1793 :
i 4 This is a very ufeful work, and is no ill
proof of ihejudsment and industry of the author.
The rules are laid down with propriety, and
the examples annexed are fufticient for their il
lustration. One part of the work deserves par
ticular commendation. We mean that which
the author stiles " Mercantile , Arithmetic " It
occupies a considerable portion of his book, but
not more than its importance will jufiify. We
would recomroend to the young Arithmetician
to pay a particular attention to this branch.
He will find its principles well explained. And
(hould he make himfelf matter of them, be will
always have rea<on to acknowledge bis obliga
tion to the judicious and laborious author. We
cannot but congratulate the rising generation on
account of the many ufeful produflions which
have lately appeared; and in which their im
provement has been principally consulted.—
Among those pioduQions we mnll place this
treatise of Arithmetic. We (hould be wanting
in jufhee to the author, should we not acknow
ledge,that his work is in reality that which its
title imports—The Preciptoh'sAssistant.
or Student's Guide,"
Bojlon, Feb. 13,
S3* Want ( i to cmpfeatjilts oj this Gazette xum
fert jgand 80—Six pence each will so f a i4 ty the
taitorjor a few &f Oioje numbers.
JSJOT'C?
iA m ? nc " 'ppointed bv il, c [, "
Traftee. of the V nntr f ny cf
will attend * the tow,, of WUft ££f' r "V
1 ' l S th >nll MHK d,„ Aoril
purppfe of rece,v, B? propoUl^ (r„ m ± *
Tons " »*r be . to Bna, rljke
ingi of the Univrrfitv. "Nitj.
FREDERICK H ARGETT^/^..^^^
n,r "\ ?ILrMM 'iS*TOV»r
Mathew Carey
Refpcftruliy u.fwn,, t J, r <r <t!fc , , {
S> al „. t hl ttK,M if , forh .r'^
edition ot
Guthrie's Geography
improved '
Arc now engraving.—and a. soon , fußti
number nt them are finiftrcd, tn r, retc ,
HarfyppW during the public.,, M , wll £
w, probably be early S f ,h f , , W » 0 J
will be put to prefj *
He rrturm hij acknov.ltd^ mrotJto
refpettable number of Sul.taibai, »h 0 »,
come forward ihus early to p,, ro „ U( . , hu ,T°
ous undertaking. Heaflur e .,|, c „
lie in general, that no pain, or nwnk
I pared in the execution of the work.
Term of the H'crh:
i. IT (ballbr publilhed in 48 weekly number
each containing three (hccu, or iwcmv-W
pages, ot letter, profs, in quarto, printed with
new types on fine papei.
11. In the courfeof the will be deliver
ed about thirty large maps, of the fame fat*
those in the European editions, viz. motto! them
sheet maps on post paper.
83" Bcfidtt the mapt in the Rrittjh iditim, Hat
work will contain nine or ten jmcriun title M/fi.
111. The price of each number writ ,
quarter dollar, (o be paid oil delivery.
A r « advance required.
IV. Sublcriberj who difapprone o! (he w BT V,
on the publication of the three firft nuir>be. ( , iw
to be at liberty to return them, and Ihali !ia«
their money repaid.
V. The fubferibers' names shall be prefix
as patrons of the undertaking.
*»* Subscriptions received in Philadelphiabv
the intended publilher; in New-York, by all
the booklellers; in New-Haven, by Mi. Brm;
in Hartford, by Mr. Patten; in Boston, by Mtfl.
Thomas & Andrews, and by Mr. Well; in Bjl.
timore, by Mr. Rice; in Richmond, by Mr.
J. Carey ; in Charleston, by Mr. VV. P. Younj
and by sundry other peifons throughout ih
Uniied States. (lawif)
An Ordinance for securing tht pHnttuai
Payment of the Monies due or. thi
Su§fcriptions to the Society for tjla•
blijbing Ufeful Manufactures.
WHEREAS doubt) have heretofore arifca
with regard to the power of the Society
to annex any penalties to the non-payment oi th»
instalments, agreeably to the terms of the fob
fcriptions. And whereas the Legislature at thei*
lafl feflions, pasTed a supplement to the original
law of incorporation, removing the said doubts,
and fully authorizing the Diteftors tap*b any
ordinance they may think proper, to copipel the
pun&ual payment of the said ftibfeTipiionj.
Sec. i. Be it ordained, there (die. bi the Governor
and Direflors of the Society for ejlablijhing (Jffjul
ManufaflvreSiThai if any fubferiber orbisafngw.
shall negle&to pay the second paynvnt of hi#,
her, or their refpeflive fubferiptions, togethel
with the lawful interest arising thereon, either to
the cashier of the United States Bank Office oi
Discount and Dcpoftt, at New-York,the cafliiet
of the Bank of \ew-York, thecalhierof the
Bank of the United States, in Philadelphia, ol
John Bayard, Esq. in the city of New-BrunG
wick* in the state of New-Jerley, on or bcion
the thirteenth day of April next : That then and
in that c?fe, all and every (hare orfharej of such
person or persons so neglecting to make such psy
ments as aforefaid, and the monies by them pie
viouflv paid, (hall be forfeited, and forever there
after veftcd in the said Dire#or.«, and their suc
cessors, for the common benefit of the said So
ciety.
Sec. 2. And be it further or datnedby thtauthont)
aforefaid, That if any fublcribef, orhisalfigni
shall neglect to-pay the third payment ofhia,bei
or their refpe&ive fubferiptions, together wit
the lawful interest arising thereon, on or brfon
the thirteenth day of May next. That then an'
in that all and every (hare or shares ot fucf
person or persons so neglctting to make luc!
payments as aforefaid, and the monies by theiT
previojifly paid, (ball be forfeited, and foreve
thereafter veiled in the said Di'«ftors, and then
fuccefTors, for the commou benefit of the lai<
Society.
Sec. 3. And be it further ordained by the author
aforefaid, That if any iubfenber, or his afligni
(hall neglect to pay the fourth payment ot bu
her, or their refpetlive fubferiptions,on or befo r
the thirteennth day ot Ju)y nrxt, that then an 1
that cafe, all and every share or shares of luc
person or peifons, so negle£l»oj to make (uc
payments as aforefaid, and the monies by then
previously paid, shall be forfeited, and lortvt
thereafter vefled in the said Directors. and t eI
successors, for the common benefit of the WV
Society. NICHOLAS LOW, Governor.
Puffed at New-Ark, 20th February, 1793*
(Couutcrfigned) ELISHA BOUDINO »
Secretary pro tempore.
BE IT KNOWN, that the proportion of fy
cie which may be paid on the
ments'of every original share, byfuchbtoc
holders as prefer paying a moiety of fiia aTI
in fpecic, in lieu of deferred debfj * sas^°^
On (he 13th of April, >793, With >»-
tereft from 13th July, I 79 2 '
On the 13th of May, * 793» in '
tereft from 13th January, 1793. 7
On the 13th of July, .1793, :
Stockholders in the (aid Society arc
notified, that I, the fiibfcriber, am duly au
rized to make the requisite inHnrferoef" JP
the certificates of (hares which they may r f P
tively hold, and that books of transfer arc op
ed at my office, in New- •
X NICHOLAS LOJ.
jiwrip-
I. C. A. A. A. S.
February 21, 1
7 6 <