A fAf ZONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS »" JOHN FENNO, No. 34, NORTH FrFTH-STRE£T, PHILADELPHIA
' No. i 5 i 'of Vol. IV.]
h)R THE GdZErTB. ' *
No. 11.
THE do&rine which has been examined, is
pregnant with inferences and consequen
ces against which no ramparts in the tonftituti
on could defend the public liberty, or scarcely
the forms qf government. Were
it once established that the powers of war and
treaty are in their nature executive ; that so far
as they are not by <onflru<sion transfer
red to the legislature, they actually belong to
the executive ; that of course all powers not
less executive in their nature than those powers, 1
if not granted to the legislature may be claim
eel by the executive: if granted, are to be ta
ken flriftly, with a refuluary right in the execu
tive ; or,as will hereafter appear, perhaps claim
ed as a concurrent right by the executive ; and
no citizen could any longer guess at the charac
ter of the government under which he lives ;
the naoft penetrating jurist would be unable to
(can conftru&ive prerogative.
r.tt> the lctfurc • f the rc&-
d« r deflation« which the author having omit
ted might not chufe to own, I proceed to the
examination of one, with which that liberty
cannot be taken.
" However true it may be (fays he) that the
right of the legiflatufe to declare war includes
the right of judging whether the legiilatura be
under obligations to make war or not, it will
not follow that the executive is in any cafe exclu
ded from a [miliar rigfjt of judging * n 'be execu
tion of its own firo&icyis."
A material error of the writer in this appli
cation of his doctrine lies in his Ihrinking from
its regular consequences. Had he'ftuck to his
principle in its f'.ill cKtjent, and reasoned from
it without reftriiint, he would only have had to
defend himfelf against bn opponents. By yield
fng the great point, that the right to declare
war, tho to be taken includes the right to
judge whether the nation be under obligation to
make war or not, he is compelled to defend his
argument not only against others but against
himfelf also. ' Observe how he struggles in his
•wn toils.
He had before admitted that the right to de
clare war i» vetted 'm rfre legislature. He here
Admits that the right to declare war includes
the right to judge whether the United States be
obliged" to declare war or not. Can the infe
rence be avoided, that the executive instead of
having a similar right to judge, is as much ex
cluded from the right to judge as from the right
to declare ?
If the right to declare war be an exception
out of the general grant to the executive power;
every thing included in the right mufl be includ
ed in the exception ; and being included in the
exception, is excluded from the -grant.
Ke cannot diftntanglfc himfelf by consider
ing the right of the executive to judge as con
current with that of the legislature. For if the
executive have a concurrent right to judge, and
the right to judge be included in (it is in fa<sl
the very essence of) -the right to declare, he
must go on and fay that the executive has a con-
Current right, also ta dcclare. AthJ thfn what
will he do with his other admission, that the
power to declare is an exception out of the ex
ceu:-Lve power.
Perhaps an attempt may be made to creep
out of the difficulty through the words " in rh'
execution o f its functions," Here again h<
mud equally fail.
Whatever oifficulties may a rife in defining
he executive i uthority in particular cases, there
can be none in deciding on aR authority clearly
placed by the in another depart
ment. In this cafe the has decided
what (hall not be deemed an executive autho
rity,; tho' it may not have clearly decided in
every cafe what {hall be so deemed. The decla
ring of war is expressly made alegiflative func
tion. 'The judging; of the obligations to make
war, is admitfed to be included as a legifla'ive
fnn&ion. Whenever then a question occurs
whether '.var {ball be declared, or whether pub
lic stipulations require it, the question neccflari
ly belongs to the department to which those
fun&ions belong—And no other department can
be in the execution of it* proffer fun£2iotts y it it
Ihould undertake to dceide such a question.
There can be no refuge against this conclu
sion, but in the pretext of a concurrent right in
both to judge of the obligations to
declare war, and this mull be intended by the
writer when he fays, " it will not follow tha* -
the exe<utive is excluded In any cafeivom a Ji
nilar right of judging &c."
As thisis the ground on which the ultimate
defence is to be made, and which must either
be maintained, or the works cre&ed on it, de
tnolifhed ; it will be proper to give its strength
a fair trial.
It has been fecn that the idea of a coneurtc*t
right is at variance with other ideas advanced
or admitted by the writer. laying aside for
the present that consideration, it feetfis im
possible to avoid concluding that if the execu
tive has a concurrent right with the
to judge of obligations to declare war, and the
right to judge be eflentialta included in the right
to declare, ii mnik have the fame right to dc
7.. i-
dare as it has to judge; &by another analogy,
feh« fame right to judge of other cauies of war,
as of the particular cause found in a public Sti
pulation. So that'whenever the execmive in the
ctutfe of itsfunftiens shall meet wi'.h these cases,
it mutt either infer an equal authority in all, or
acknowledge its want of authority in any.
If any doubt c;in remain, or rather if any
doubt could ever have arisen, which fide of the
<the native ought to be embraced, it can be
With those only who overlook or rcjdvSl; some of
the mnft obviou«ajid eifemiaj (ruths in politi
cal ftieoce.
The power 'to judge of the causes of war as
involved in the power to declare war, is exprqfs-
Jy veiled where all uther leijiflative powers are
vetted, that is, in theQopgrefs of the United
State?, It is consequently determined by $he
gonlbtution to be a Legjlativ£ fio-wer, Now
omitting the enquiry here in what refpe&s a
compound power may be partly legislative, and
p.artly executive, and accordingly veiled partly
in the one, and partly in the other department,
or* 3 ;r'ift!y In %oth; <' v= T*ri<**: uO*d on another
occafinn is equally conclusive on this, that the
fame power, cannot belong in the rvboh, to both
departments, or be properly so vested as to ope
rate Separately in each. Still more evident is it,
"that the fame jpccific function or cannot possi
bly belong to the tivo departments and be fepe
rately exercifeable by each.
LegislatiVe power may be concurrently vested
indifferent legislative bodies. Executive pow
ers may be concurrently Vested in different exe
cutive magistrates. In legislative a&s the exe
cutive may have a participation, as in the qua
lified negative on the laws. In executive a&s,
the legislature, or at least a branch of it, may
participate, as in ths appointment to offices.—
Arrangements of this fort are familiar in theo
ry, as well as in pra£lice. But an independent
exercifeof ar» executive a£l % by the legislature a
lone, or of a legtjlaitve aftky the executive alone y
' one or other of which mull happen in every
cafe where the fame a& i* exercifeable by each,
and the latter of which would happen in the
cafe urged bv t' e writer, is contrary to one of
the firft and best maxims of a well organized
gbvernment, andought' never to be founded in
a forced cenllrucfiipn, much less in opposition to
a fair one. Ir.ftances, it is true, may be disco
vered amohg ourselves where this maxim, has
not been faithfully pursued ;*but being general
ly acknowledged to be errors, they confirm, ra
ther than Impeach the truth and value of the
maxim.
It may happen also that different independent
departments, the legislative and executive, for
example, may in the exercise of their functions,
conllitution differently, and thence
lay claim each to the fame power. This diffe
rence of opinion is an inconvenience not entire
ly to be avoided. It results from what may be
called, if it bethought fit, a concurrent right to
expound the couftitution. But this fpectes of
concurrence is obviously and radically different
from that in question. The former supposes the
conrtitwtion to l>ave given the power to one de
partment only ; and the doubt to be to which
it has been given. The latter supposes it to be
long to both ; and that it may be exercised by
either or both, according to the course of exi-
gencies.
A concurrent authority in two independent
departments to perform the fame lun&ion with
refpeift to the fame-thing, would be as awkward
in practice, as it is unnatural in theory.
If the legillature and executive have both a
right to judge of the obligations to make War
or not, it mud sometimes happen, though not
at present, that they will judge differently. —
The executive may proceed to consider the ques
tion to-day, may determine that the United
States are not bound to take part in a war, and
in the execution ./ it, function, proclaim that de
termination to all the world. To-morrow, the
leeiflature may follow in the confutation of
the fame fubje<ft, may determine that the obli
gations impose war on the United States, and
i„ tie execution of it, funaion,, enter into a enfli
tutional'dtcUratio», expressly contradicting the
conßitutional proclamation.
In what light does this present the conlliruti
on to the people who it ? In what
light would it present to the world, a nation,
thus speaking, thro' two different organs, c
qually conftimtional and authentic, two eppo
fite languiges, on the lame fubje& and under
the fame exiftingcircumftaiices?
But it is not with the legislative rights alone
that this do&rine interferes. The rights of the
judiciary may be equally invaded. For ,t is
clear that if a right declared by thecontt.tut.on
to be legislative, and actually veiled by it in the
Wiflature, leaves, notwithftand.ng, a similar
right in the executive whenever a cafe for exer
eifing it occurs, in tie course of it, funaion,; a
ri e ht declared to be judiciary and vested in that
department may, on the fame principle, be as
sumed and exercised by the executive .n lie
course of it, funaion. . and it is evident that oc
casion? and pie texts for the Utter interference
may be as frequent as for the former. So again
the judiciary department may find equal occa
sions in the execution of it. funft.ons, for ufuro.
ing the authorities »f the executive : and th e
£I % 1795.
5 21
legislature for flapping into the jurifdi&ion of
both. And thus all the powers of government,'
of which a partition is so carefully made among
the several blanches, would be thrown into ab
solute hotchpot, and exposed to a general fcrahi
ble.
It is time however for the writer himfelf to
be heard, in defence of his text. His comment
is in the words following :
" If the legislature have a right to make war
on the one han4, it is on the other the duty of
the executive to:preferve peace, till war is de
clared ; and in fulfilling that duty, it mull ne.-
ceffarily possess a right of judging what is the
nature of the obligations which the treaties 6f j
the country ijnpofc 011 the government; and
when in pursuance of this right it has conclud
ed that there is nothing inconsistent with a state 1
of neutrality, it becomes both its province and J
its duty to enforce th<? laws incident to that
state of the nation. The executive is charged
with the execution of'all laws, the laws ol nati
ons, aswe|l as the municipal law whjch recog
nizes and adopts those laws. It is consequently
by faithfully executing the laws of neu
trality, when that is the state of the nation, to
avoid giving a cause of war to foreign powers."
To do full justice to this master piece of logic,
the reader must have the patience to follow it
step by llep.
If the legislature have a right to make ivar on the
one hand, it is on the other, the duty of the executive
to preserve peace till ivar is declared.
It will be observed that here is an explicit and
peremptory assertion, that it is the duty of the
executive to preserve peace, till 'war is declared.
And in fulfilling that duty it mufl neccffarily pos
sess. a tight of judging what is the nature of the ob
ligations ivhich the treaties of the country impose on
the government : That is to fay, in fulfilling the
dutyto preserve peace, it must necessarily possess thfe
right to judge whether pcace ought to be preserv
ed; in other words ivhether its duty Jhould be per
formed. Can words exprels a flatter contradic
tion ? It is felf evident that the duty in thit cafe
is so far from necessarily implying the right f that it
neccffarily excludes it.
And ivhen in pursuance of this right it has con
cluded that there is nothing in them in
conftfent rvith a fate of neutrality, IT BECOME 4
ooifo Us province and its duty to erjtrce the luivs in
cident to that fate of the nation.
And what if it (hould conclude that there is -
fomethitig inconsistent ? Is it or is it not the
province and duty of the executive to enforce
the lame laws ? Say it is, you destroy the right
to judge. Say it is not, you cancel the duty to
obey.
Take this sentence in connexion with the
preceeding and the contradictions are multipli
ed. Take it by itfelf, and it makes the right to
judge and conclude whether war be obligatory,
absolute, and operative ; and the duty to pre
serve peace, subordinate and conditional.
It will have been remarked by the attentive
reader that the term peace in the firfl daufe has
been silently exchanged in the present one, for
ths term neutrality. Nfflthlng however is gain
ed by fhifting the terms. Neutrality means
peace, with an atlufion to the circumstance of
other uations being at war. The term has no re
ference to the existence or non existence of trea
ties or alliances between the nation at peace and
the nations at war. The laws incident to a
state of neutrality, are the laws inc dent to a
Hate of peace, with such circumstantial modi<-
cations only as are required by the new relati
on of the uations at war : Until war therefore
be duly auihorifed by the United States they
are as ad'ually neutral when other nations are
at war, as they are at peace, (if such a diftinAi
on in the terms is to be kept up) when other
nations are not at war. The existence of even
tual engagements which can only take effect on
the declaration of the legislature, cannot, with
out that declaration, change the iliual state of
the country, any more in the eye of the execu
tive than in the «ye of the judiciary department.
The laws to be the guide ef both, remain the
fame to each, and the fame to both.
Nor would more be gained by allowing the
writer to define than toihift the term neutrality*
For fuppofc, if you please, the exifteuce of ob
ligations to join in war to be inconsistent with
neutrality, the question returns upon him,
what laws are to be inforced by the executive
until effed (hall be given to those obligations
by the declaration of the legislature ? Are they
to be the laws incident to those obligations,that
is incident to war ! However flrongiy the doc
trine* of deductions of the writer may tend to
this point, it will not be avowed. Are the
laws to be enforced by the executive, tken, in
such a state of thin gs, to be the fame as If no such
obligations exifttd ? Admit this, which you
must admit if you reject the other alternative,
and the argument lands precisely where it em
barked—in the polition, that it is the absolute
duty of the executive in all cases to preserve
peace till war is declared, not that it is " tote
fame the province and duty of the executive" af
ter it has concluded that there is nothing in
those obligations inconsistent with a state of
peace and neutrality. The right to judge and
conclude therefore so solemnly maintained in
the text it 101 l in the comment.
[Whale No. 455.]
We shall fee whether it can be reinstated by
what follows—
The executive it charged Ivitb the execution of ail
la US) the taivs of nations as ivdl as the municipal
laiv ivbicb recognizes and adopts tfyofe laxvs. It
is CQnfequentJ% bound, by faithfully executing the
laivs of neutrality Kvhen that is the fifktt of the nati
on, to a vdid giving cause of tvar to foreign powers.
The fi'rft fgntence is a truth, hut nothing; to
the point in quclViou. The last is partly true in
its proper meaning, but totally untrue in the
meaning of the writer. That the executive is
bqund faithfully to execute the laws of neutra
lity, wlii Ift those laws continue unaltered by
the competent authority, is true; but not for
the reason here given, to wit, to avoid giving
cause of war to foreign powers. It is bound to
the faithful execution of these as ot all other
laws internal and external, by the nature of it 3
truftand the fan&ion «f its oath, even if turbu
lent citizens (hould consider i-S so doing as a
cause of war at home, or unfriendly nations
should consider its so doing, as a cause of war a
broad. The dmy of the executive to preserve
external peace, can fib more iufpend the force of
external laws, than its duty to preserve inter
nal pcace can suspend the force of municipal
laws.
It is certain that a faithful execution of the
laws of neutrality may tend as much in some
cases, to incur war from one quarter, as in
others to avoid war from other quarter*. Th«
executive must nevertheleCs execute the laws of
neutrality whilst in force, and leave it to the le
gislature to decide whether they ought to be al
tered or not. The executive has no othefr dif
qretion than to convene and give information
to the legislature on occasions that may demand
it ; and whilst this discretion is duly exerciied
the trust of the executive is fatisfied,and that de
partment is not refpoaCble for the consequen
ces. Jt could not be made responsible for them
without vesting it with the legislative as well
as with the executive trust.
These remarks are.obvious and conclusive, on
the fuppofitiori that the cxpreflion " laws of
neutrality" means simply what the words ihi
port, and what alone they can mean, to give
force or colour tb the inference of the writer
from his own premises. As the inference itfelf
however in its proper meaning, does not ap
proach towards his avowed objedt, which is to
work out a prerogative for the executive to
judgs, in common with the legislature, whether
cause of war or not ina public obligati
on, it is to be presumed that " in faithfully
executing the laws of neutrality" an exercise of
that prerogative was meant to be included. On
this fuppoiition the inference, as will have been
seen, does not result from his own premife3, and
has been already so amply difcufled, and, it is
conceived, so.clearly that not a word
more can be necessary on this branch of his ar-
HELrVIDIUS.
gumcnt.
From the AMERICAN DAILY ADVERTISER,
Mr. Dunlap,
TWO Letters have just made their appear
ance reipe&ing the threatened appeal
from the President of the United States to the
people, one from Mr. Genet to the President
—'Another in answer to that from the Secre
tary of State.
It is understood, that these letters have
come to the public eye, through the channel
of Mr. Genet,
What he could have meant by the promul
gation, is truly a matter of curious specula
tion.
Did he Intend by it to have it believed, that
he had not made the declaration which is af
crihed to him ?
If this was his object, he has totally failed
in it. His letter contains no dired denial of
his having made such a declaration ; though
by an affetted circumlocution, he- endeavors
to have the air of doing so—And his appeal
to the Prefideiit is artfully ,confined to the
question, •' whether he had ever intimated
t» him an intention to appeal to the People i"
i— He may never have exprefled such a threat
to the President—-and yet he may have done
it mora exceptionally ts others. Indeed it
has not been aflerted, that it was addreticd
immediately to the President—The contrary
has been a matter of notoriety from the be
ginning.
What answer does the Secretary of State oa
behalf of the President give enquiry ?
One certainly the reverse of confirming
what Mr. Genet endeavors to have believed.
The President declines giving evidence again ft
the declaration imputed to Mr, Genet—with
this reason for it, that whether made to him or
others was perhaps immaterial; a clear indita
tion of his belief that it was made to some
body. Whoever knows the circumfpeftinn
and delicacy, which are charadteiiftjc of the
President, will conclude, without heiitation,
that he would neither have entertained nor
intimated such a belief without fufficient
ground for it.
Did Mr. Genet intend by hij commnnic#-
tl'in to remove all doubt from the public nrind,
about the reality of a serious mifunderftaad
Vin{t h*twf*n.hiin the jAvernmer.t, ( and
tbe m ailt oi iel;>e& In his.demeuiior to#a<ds
if >
If these were his his success has
been complete.
His letter informs bs in dire<st terms, that
he has complained t«> the President, of the prin
ciples adopted by him—has remonjlrated to 'him,
against the decijons relulting from'
declared to him that Jar Jrom manijrjling a regard
lor the generous, friendly, and difintertfted
conduct of France, he had by hit interpreta
tion of the treaties between the two coun
tries, facrijiced her inteiojls to thajc oj her enemies
chat h& coyidu3A\d not appear to cotrej
pond zvith the views of the ptofb °J America, or
with their dejire to observe with fidelity their pub
lic engagements, or with their regard Jot the
cause of liberty.
From this famp'p of the language used by
Mr. Genet to the government, as avowed by
himfelf, under circumstances which certainly
did not lead him to exaggerate his own im
proprieties, it is easy to discern what has been
the true complexion of his deportment. It
is cafy to perceive, that it was more lifce that
of an Eastern Bashaw to his slaves, than like
that of the Minister of one, to the govern
ment of another sovereign and independent
nation. It appears, that instead of endea
voring to convince the Psefident of the fup
pofed-ertor of his conftru&ion—he has pre
ferred the stile of complaint, rcmvijiavce and
unhandsome imputation. Want of regard to
France, and a Sacrifice of her interests to those
of her enemies are petulantly charged; ar.d
Mr. Genet, willing to become the inftru&or
of the government, undertakes to lelTbn the
President about the vievJSy the dejires y and the
ngards of the people. ♦ t
After all this, he has the modesty to call
upon the President to attest 44 that a differ
ence in political sentiments has never betray
ed him to forgt t what was due to the charac
ter and reputation of the President."
What is the answer to this Nope—A
profound and expreflive silence gives an une
quivocal negative to the afiertior
The people of the United States can now
be at no loss to determine, that they have
been insulted and affronted by this foreign
Agent, in the person of their Chief Magftrate.
NO JACOB-IN.
Foreign Intelligence.
Wednesday arrived the Jhip sldric.na y ■
Captain Robertfon y from Liverpool.
By this vt\fcl Englijh new/papers
are received to the t)th of July, which*
contain the following Intelligence.
FROM THE LONDON GAZETTE.
OST END, June 16.
INTELLIGENCE has beeo received here,
that the Dutch forces quartered at Menin,
and a part of those ai Ipres, h?d received orders
tb march, on the 11th inft. at midnight, in two
columns, with a view to surround a body of
French troops in the neighbourhood of Vervick :
That the column under the command of the
Prince of Waldeck. attacked one of ihc enemies
batteries, and were on the point of Carrying it,
when the Prince was dangerously wounded in
the breast & thigh, 8c they were thrown into eon
fufion & retreated. This corps being soon after
wards supported by the arrival of the eolumn
from Ipres, ur.der the command of Prince Fre
derick of Orange, renewed the attack, and took
poffelfion of Vervick. The Dutch have loft on
this occasion between 50 and 60 men killed,
among whom are five officers. The loss on the
part of the French is supposed to amount to 400
men killed, and upwards of 10© taken prison
ers, besides fevers! pieces of cannon.
The Princc of Waldeck died y-efterday of his
wounds.
The transports from England arrived here this
morning without any accident, and are fafely
moored in this harbour.
This day's Gazette contains an order from
his Majcfty in Council to prolong the bounty
for seamen and landmen unto the lft August
next.
His Majfjly's mojlgracious SPEECH to ioth Houses
oj Parliament,
ON FRIDAY, JUNE 21, 1793.
My Lords and Gentlemen,
THEI firmnefs, wisdom, and public spirit by
which your concluft has been eminently diftin
gnifhed on the many Important occasions which
have arisen during the present fcflion, demand
mv peculiar acknowledgments.
Your firm determination to support the cftab
lifhed constitution, and the zealous and general
concurrence in that fenume.nt, which my fuh
jefts have To strongly ahd seasonably manifeft
ed, could not fail to check (very attempt to dis
turb the internal repole of these kindoms ; and
you will, I doubt not, in your several counties
encourage the continuance ot the fame vigilant
'attention to that important object.
The rapid and signal fuccefles which in an
rarly period of the campaign have attended the
operations of the combined armies; the resec
table and powerful force which you have ena
bled me to employ by sea and land, and the
mcafures which I have concerted with other
poweis for the effectual profecutiovi of the war,
afford the best profpeft of a happy issue to the
important contest in which we *re engaged ; It%
is only by peifcvcrance in vigorous exertions,
apd by endeavoring to improve the advantages
already acquired, that we can hope to obtain
the great end to which my views are uniformly
dire&ed, the restoration of peace on such terms
as may be confident with our permanent securi
ty, and with the general tranquillity of Europe.
Gentlemen of the lloufe of Commons,
I rcrurn you my particular thanks for the
chcarfulncfs and dispatch with which you have
granted ithc neceflary supplies, & I am happy to
refle# that you have enabled me liberally to pro
vide for the exigencies of the public fervire in
a manner so little burthenfoine lo my people.
My Ltrji arJ 6f*t/cmt» t
The Ml which you have formed for
the government of (he territories tu India, jud
for the regulation of our commerce w::h.that
part of the will, I doubt not, (retire and
augment fhetmporrant benefits which we
already derived irom those valuable potfefiions.
It has been impoilible for me 10 fee without
concern the cmbanaliment which has lately ari
sen in the (late of commercial credit, but the
steps which you have taken to prevent the pro
gress of that evil, appear already to have been
produ&ive of veiy faluiary consequences ; and
while they have afforded a drifting instance oi
yrxkr attention to the interefls of my pdoplt,
their effrft has furnifhed additional THMQfc
believe that the distress which has been felt pro
ceeded from a concurrence of temptoraffy cautes,
and not from any diminution ot the real wealth,
or any failure in the permanent refoijrces of the
country.
I have much fatisfa&ion in refle&ing on the
effr&ual pint ftion which I have enabled
to afford to the trade of my fubjftts finc'e the
breaking out of the war—l am at the fau• e rime
persuaded that if our commercial interests had
unavoidably been atfc£ted to a more considera
ble extent, it would not have be.cn forgotten
fhat we are contending for our future security,
and for tfe permanent preservation of advan
tages the mod striking and the mr.ft valuable
which any nation has ever, by the blefling of
Providence, been permitted to enjoy.
Thrn the Lord Chancellor, by his Majetty's
command, said :
My. Lorii and Gcntttmen,
I) is hit Majesty's royal Will and pleafu're,
that thit parliament be prorogued to.Tucfday
the thirteenth day of August next, to be then
here holden ; and this parlliment is according
ly prorogued to Tuesday the thirtceath day of
August next. h
T'URI N,'June, 5. <
Intelligence has been received here, that on
the 12th inft. a bo<iy of about 10,000 French
troops attempted to difl>dge the advanced pdfts
ot the Sardinian army at Raus and Authion in
the county of Nice, commanded by the Gene
rals Baron Colli and Baron Deller,*, and, after
an engagement which lafled near 8 hours,-with
out interruption, were repulsed on all fides,and
driven into the vallies, with the loss of abont
800 men killed, and 1500 wounded, besides a
number taken prisoners. The loss on the part
of the Sardinians amounts to between 40 arid 50
killed,and about 200 wounded.
O S T E N D, June 28*
The Auftrians have been unfortunately beaten
at Arlon ; they loft abont 1500 men, their bag
gage and magazines. Letters from Paris men
tion, thai the rebel army had been defeated by
Gen. Biron, with the lofsof 7.000 men, all their
k a ££ a g e and artillery. Ido not vouch for the
truth of this report, but I know lhat it comes
from Paris. If Valenciennes be Recently de
fended, it may hold out a month longeT. As
yet the besiegers have not opened any battery *
nearer than 300 yards ; but they talk of begins
ning another parallel—a third.—Sorr)«~ people
report, that the King of Brutfia's army on ihe
Rhine is so reduced, that were it not for .the
Auftrians who are with them, they would be
obliged to abandon the neighbourhood of
Mayence.
PARIS, June iq,
SITTINGS of the JACOBINS.
Thursday, June ao.
The deputies from the department of Jura
accused the administrators who, on the 4th of
May, resolved to fend deputies to Bourges.
" Our administration," said the orator, " ha»
raised some cavalry, confiding of the late No
bles, and all fufpe<3ed persons whom the com
missioners had ordered to be arretted. It has al
so raised a battalion of 800. men, as badly or
ganized, and in which the rich have been pfe
ferred to the Sans Culottes. It ordered the fal
lowing infeription to be put on the colours,
" War to Anarchists !" So that our department
is completely in a state of counter-revolution,
and fupporfed by an armed force. This is not
all: the department declared that it acknow
ledged no longer the convention. The doin-i
monalty of Dole could not forbear its cries of
indignation, and the department has resolved to
fend an armed force to deprive Dole of its can
non and provisions. Dole will refill, and thus
a civil war will break out."
Friday, June 21.
The society decreed, that there fliould be
sent, during the fitting, commissioners to the
committee of Public Safety, to invite it to drive
away all ex-nobles from civil and military pla
ces, and not to employ them in future. .
Roufillon required, that they should be ex
ported to French Guyenne, and also all the
Priests.
MUNICIPAL ITT of PARIS.
Wednesday, June 19.
A citizen of Havre read a paper, from which
it appeared that arilocracy prevails in that city
" Twenty thousand signatures (faidhe) if necef
far-y, will prove what I have asserted."
Th« council nam<d commiflioners to examine
before the committee of Public Safety, the accu
sation which had. been ra.ide against the jritni
niftrators of the department de la Seine-Infe
rieure.
Chaumet read a letter from de h Chevar
diere, commiflioner at la Vandie, dated from
Tours the 15th instant. He announced, that
the rebfls had evacuated Chinon the fame day
on which they had taken it, and that they
marched against Angers ; but by the arrival of
the volunteers, and the courage of the army, it
was hoped that they might soon be conquered.
He added, that the rebels spared nobody ; nei
ther patriots nor aristocrats; to ffe rich, is with
them to be a Jacobin, He demanded arms,
522
cannon, and camp equipage. (Referred to tke
commilfion of arms )
• The Procurer of the commonalty declared,
that twentyfeven feSions had adhered to the
petition of the fedtion of Pikes, which demand
ed a report of the decree for eftabliihing a revo
lutionary army in Paris. In consequence of the
sense «f thi majority, the council named com
miilioners to carry this address to the conven
tion. >
Chaumet represented to the council the dan
gers which surrounded the republic, and*which
threatened the city of Paris in particular : he
named giany departments .that had declared
themfelvestgainft the revolution of the 31ft of
May. Takinga review of thd rebel army, he
was alarmed at the piogrefs it might make, if
the most vigorous measures were not taken.
He proposed the formation of a camp, which
might be a nursery of warriors, a kind of a se
cond line army, to piote& Paris again it the hos
tilities of the enemies of their country. He
wilhc'd to submit this idea, by an address, to the
Convention.
Thursday, "June 20.
The administrators of Police moved, that th«
prisoners of war detained in the Abb .7 be re-,
moved to the temple, into the apartment for
merly occupied by Louis Capet, (The Coun
cil pafled to the order of the drA-.)
The council general resolved, that the Elec
tors, the Jacobins, all the popular societies, and
copftituted authotities, do, on Sunday next,
repair in a body to the Convention, to return
the members thanks for having completed the
toinftitution ; and proceed afterwards to the
Field of Federation, to swear to maintain Liber-,
ty, Equality, &c.
Friday, June jr. '
Hebert read a letter, dated Moulins.the 19th
of ]une, which announced that Briffot wis a
bout to be conducted to Paris under a good and
fafe guard : that there had been ftopt in a town
a person named Maflcarena, a carrier of letters
of credit upon Lyons, where he had friends, fur
nished with a falfe paflport fabricated at Ver
neuil, and a partizan of Briffot ; that he was
spreading Briffotin letters in that department ,
that the flame began in the diftricS of Gana;
and that a lame man, named Colin, had also
been arretted.
The council decreed, that the deputation
which was to take place on Sunday, fiiould
meet at nine in the morning, on the square of
the Mason Commune; from whence it Ihould
proceed, preceded by the statute of Liberty, to
the Convention, and from the Convention to
the Champ de Mars. It moreover decreed, that
this rc-union (hould be in arms, and tbat the
Convention should be invited as soon as possi
ble, to submit the coriftitution for the acceptance
of the departments.
A deputation of the society of female republi
can citizens re<meftcd to be admitted into the
train.
Addresses from Clermont Ferrand, Chalons
fur-Saome, Macon, from the department of
Htrault, of Ingerivilie, and the republican loci
ety of Nevers, brought teftimonics bf their ad
herence to the party of the mountain.
LONDON, June 18.
On Saturday morning; General Dumourier
arrived in town from Flanders,and foou after,
had a long conference with Mr. Hose, at his
houfc in Palace-yard, Westminster.
The ex-general Dumourier failed
in the parkec from Dover, which carried over
the foreign mail to Oftend. During his fliort
stay here, he had notice of several challenges;
one gentleman painted the guillotine 011 a let
ter, and left it at Dumourier'slodgings, with
his addrels enclosed, and others had declared
they would tyit ih his face wherever they met
hifn.
M. Dumourier daring his (hort stay here,
went to the bank, and transferred a small
part of the very large sum of money standing
in his name in our funds. *
The allied tropps before Valenciennes a
mount,to 83,000 men. The artillery is the
moft.formidable that ever vu collected a
gainst any one place.
The Emperor of Germany is about to pay
a visit to the army in Flanders.
July 2.
The Swallow, Captain Brook*, 26 days
passage from Gibraltar, is arrived at Fal
mouth, with dispatches from admiral Crofbv.
Shi brings the pleasing intelligence of his
■majesty's Ihip Egmont having re-taken a Spa
niih gaileon, one of the richest ever taken ;
and cap.tured the French frigate, who took
the galleon several days before. The French
f igate is one of the new conftruftion, mounts
42 guns, quite new, and ihe galleon was all
the prize she had taken.
Valenciennes—B,v the last accounts received
in London, the town was totally destroyed
by the combined force's, about a 153 cannon,
having been inceffantlyfiring upon it, for two
days and nights.
The frequent effufion of innocent blood
begins to operate powerfully upon the feel
ings of the lower descriptions of Parisians;
and Ihould the Revolutionary Tribunal soon
exhibit Juch. another scene ol cruelty as was
presented to the public a fsw.days since, when
twelve innocent persons loft theirheadsby the
murderous guillotine, there is every reason to
believe that the sanguinary reign of Marat
will meet with a speedy end. Many of these
viainis excited the deepest interest from their
youth, and the women particularly so, by
their beauty and heroism ! They made appli.
catii'i to the Convention for a respite ; but
Thuriot, that worthy brother of Marat in
iniquity over-ruled their request. Thev all
fuffered death about 12 o'clock 011 the 18th.
The fortitude of the Demoilelle The re ft
Moeleau, a young lady of the mod exqnihte
beauty and mental endowment? was uruv^r
June 23.
fitly adfflirerf. TSe MoikJ fbtrftf Jacob'**
Kmilf.ines who intuited the lull moment* u|*
tbunfortunate young lady and !»cr fellow
fuii'erers were anfwercd by her, that 11* :F
turn would soon come ! Tky refilled to re
ceive the lacrametit from ti-e ha; ds 'of t ie
conftitutioual priests ; and feeing the lata!
instrument made the air rewound with the
cnes of God Pave the King. .
Mr, Thomas Paine has now loft all his
character and popularity in France* H»»
name is inferred in the minotes of the Con
vention among the other fufpetted Membtt s,
His fulfome flattery of the Kin" and Qn en of
France and his cruel and illiberal reflection)
aaainft Lo*-d George 44 Tie lights
of Man," firft induced Gregoire and Robert
fpirre to fufpetft him of be : ng secretly pension
ed ; and his late conduct in the Convention, by
attaching himfelf to the pa«ty of* Petion and
Briflfot has confirmed his disgrace.
followed the late relblntious of hi* coufUtu
ents, the Deputies of the fix Sections of tiie
town of An a?, to adhere the decrees palled
since 31ft of May, and their declaration that
u Thomas Paine has loft their confidence."
July 4,
Dumoitrier wa« still at Offend on Saturday
last, anxiouily aw airing his fate, the meffen
crcrs he had dispatched to BrnfTels not having
then returned.
Advices from Paris, dated the 261 ft ulf.
(late that the new constitution was concluded
that day, and decreed amidJt, the loudest ap
planfe.
M. Egatite isftill a prisoner at Marfeilfe?,
svTiere he is more clofelv than ever—.
his domcftics being denied access to
him.
Th?rc is now in prison at Portsmouth, a
young French midfliipman, not 15 vi-ars of
ags, who'e rnnduft during the late action be
tween La fJvmphe and Cleopatra, gave'proof
of extraordinary courage. Three of the
French sailors uyider Ms corpmand quitted
their gm», two of whom he inftantl/ rail thro'
the body, and the third he (hot dead wijh his
pistol.
A mod unlucky event has happened to the
Austrian family, as may be learned from the
following article.
Treves, Jane 16.
Yesterday morning, about 4 o'clock, a de
tachment of 403 Frenchmen marched againll
the Austrian port at Faha, Sintz, and Keip.
ling. In this latter place, at the diffance of
half a league from Faha. they took his impe.
riil highness the Arch Duke Joseph of Au
ftriat with a picquet confiding of five di a
g-oons, pnfoners of war.
The article adds v that every effort was
made to recover the Arch Duke, but in vain.
The French knew the value of their chief
1 pri Toner, and hastened with him to the fori
of Saar Louis.
The Spaniards have in the Mediterranean
37 Ihips of the line, carrying 2959 camion,
two corvettes, and 9 brigs.
Pcihion, the once great and mighty Crom
well of Paris, whole repeated insults to the
unhappy Louis, and ivhore charming conni
vance at the attrocities of the totli of Ail
guft and 2d of September will never be for
gotten, is now a wretched outcast—at one
time eying for his life to a mob, and at ano
ther escaping through a back window into a
friendly ditch.—ls not this something like the
vengeance of heaven ?
Count de By land, commandant of the for
trefs of Breda, when it was attacked by the
Friench, and who, by the hasty far render of
it, not a little contributed to their fnbfequent
success, ha*? been sentenced by the court mar
tial to be conveyed to the parade of Breda,
where, in the front of all the garrffon, be is
to be stripped of all hi?? military decorations,
his sword is *o be carried to the fortrefs of*
Loeveftein, a state prison, where he is to be
confined for the remainder of his life.
The troops iii the pay of the Emperor r
mounts to 225,374 men, exclusive.of the ar
tillery, ltaff, &c. which encreafes the number
to more than 330,000 ; to these an addition
ot 70,000 are to be made.
The diilglution of the national convention
was a desperate meiifure, which must either
the downfal or establish the Re
public of France ; that the former will be
the cafe, feenis to be the opinion of*the best
informed.
July 8.
Yesterday Dr. Mountain, the new bifiiop of
Canada, was conf*crated by the archbilhop of
Canterbury, at Lambeth palace. The bish
ops of London, St. David's, and Bangor, ar
fifted at the ceremony, and afterwards dined
with the a'rchbifliop.
The news of the capture of Sauniur by the
roya lifts no foqner reached Angers, the
£onftituted authorities fied to Lava!) with the
archives, treasury-chest of the diftrift, and se
veral pieces of cannon*; the citizens imme
dsaitelv formed a new government, and M«
Boifleve de la. Morouviere was ele<sVed mayor
ot the town ; M. Rheille was chosen his de
puty ; the former, under the ancient govern
ment, had oltenr filled the office to whic-h he is
now chosen, and the latter is an ex-conflitu
ent member of the convention. Their exer
tions n*ftored complete order j all the itati
prifoqers cpnfined by the jucQsiijuf<ifitiPD wers
fetiatiiiberty, andthe Jacobins fled to Laval*
on bearing that M. De Bouchamp at the head
of the royal ills were approaching, and who ar r
rived in two hours after ; no excefles were
committed by them. They proceed to the
Cathedral, where 7V Dcvtn was chaurjted, and
the ladies all appeared in mourning for Louis
XVlth, and wajted o?i ,the commandant to
congratulate his arrival
Odd Bett.-*—A wager wi? offered in' March
last, of guinea*, that Dumaurier would
never come into this country.—The acceptor
of the bet is of opinion he has won in confe
rence of his late visa —-The decffion is
to the JofJvey club.PUBUC CREDIT.
We are happy to be able to announce (in
thr language of the commercial world) " that
triads are coming round again very iaft."—
The finds keep riling gradually. The Bank
of England, which fume time ago was nearly
drained of its cash by the bankers tn the conn- ,
try drawing their money from London, is now
«s full of specie as ever, and the clerks
niVcompletely employed in receiving it. As
Liaflonisthe fountain hf.ad of all trade,
this will very Ihortly spread itlelf every
Where, and again replenilh the country. Oa
examining into the causes of the late com
rn-ctal dift eifes, perhaps t<..-y might be truly
fn.mw.vt up in the word—PANIC. TJie inftutlj '
gene-. al confidence is again reftorcd, and peo
ple' cease to be longer suspicious of each
oE he this bubble of panic will burst, and all
will be right again. ,
NANTES.
The captain of ait English veffe!, who wa;
p'ifmier of war at MO'laix, and who was fuf
fereri to return r6 this country on his parole,
arrived oil Saturday m'an American veiled
alul repbTcd at I.Srvd's, that on the preceel-.
Iti'j Saturday,'the a9rh of June, he saw the
Parir gazette Le Munit-'ur, which announced
the city of Nantes to be in'the poUeffion of
the Ri>yaliils.
" When Monf de Malelherbes, in reading
to the King the lift of those who voted for or
against His death, teftified his aftonillunent at
Manuel's no' having voted for his d?ath ; the
King replied, " that does not surprise me.; it
is rather Pethion who'aftonifhes me—l will
now g-ve you my reasons.
!n the beginning of September, I was
fated at this fame table, when Mefirs. Pe
t io i, Manuel arid KerfVint, came to me eor
lv in the morning. They told me, that every
thing would be ioft, unless some obftacl? were
thrown in the way to prevent the arrival of
the King of Prnffia at Paris. But that if he
(hou'il come within ten leagues of the capital,
there would be much reason to fear, that the
people would maflacre me, as well as my
whole family ; and that they would jjrefent
onr heads to the enemy. That it was in the
retreat of the Duke of Brunfwitk alone that
we ould hope for fafety. That if I could
prevail on him to make his troops retire, they,
anil th'eMayor and Procurer of the Commune,
would sign, at the'bottom of my letter to the
King of PruiTia, an engagement that our lives
fltould be preserved. I engaged to write the
letter, which was di&ated by Manuel, at this
table, at the bottom of which Pethion, Manuel
and Kerfaint, fignefl the engagement of the
Commune. I then sent off the letter."
Letters from the c&mp of the allies near
N:c;, mention a smart action to have taken
place on the heights of Cogola, no the Bth of
June, in which the Piedmontefe loft about
600 men, and the French between 4 and 5100
-—the action was by 110 means decisive—night
having obliged the French to retire, and an
apprehenlion of lj.?injj attacked the following
day, having induced the Pifdmontefe 1 to aban
don the ptffts which had been the object of
dispute.
A \ir-y cheap method has been discovered,
of under draining lands, by a fanner in Suf
folk, which is found to an.'wer completely in
countries where* ft one or b 1 ufhwood is scarce.
The mode is bj tw'rfting bands, by
means of irons made 011 purpose, to a size a
bout twice the thickness of thole which tie
up truffle* of ft raw, and which are laid down
in the drain, and will last full as long in this
*fay as wood.
PORTSMOUTH, June 20.
Capture of a Frenc\ frigate.
This morning arrived at St. Helen 4 ?, his
majesty's frigate La NympUe, of guns,
Capt. C. Pellew, with the Cleopatra French
frigate, of 40 guns, and 320 men, her prize,
wjncb she took after a tnoft gallant contefV.
Yeftefday forenoon Capt. Pellew fell in
with the above frigate off the Start; he im
mediately run the La Nymphe along fide,
when the action commenced, which lasted
with unabating fury for about 50 minutes,
when the Cleopatra's mizenmaft and tiller
were (hot away, which rendering her ungo
vernable, flie fell on boa»d the Nymphe.——
Capt. Pellew then gave orders to board her,
which were infrantly executed, and the
Frenchman ft ruck.
The killed and wounded on board the La
"Nymphe, are as follow :
Killed—The Boatswain, 4 Midftiipmen, and
20 men.
Wounded—The 2d Lieutenant, Lieutenant
Whitaker of the marines, and *5 men.
The Cleopatra had near IOD killed and
wounded ; among the former was the French
captain who fell the firft broadside.
The Cleopatra was the frigate that hove
in fight when the Venus, Capt. Falkejier was
the Proferpbie, the firft and second
captains of which were killed.
The commencement of the a&ion between
tHe Nyinphe and Cleopatra, was the mod no
ble and awful that the naval history ot the
world ever recorded. The French captain
o'defH his fl>ip to be manned, and coming
forward on the gangway, pulled off his hat,
an{\called out, 44 Vive la Nation !" when the
flnp's company gave three cheers. Capt.
Pellew in like manner, ordered his men from
quarters to the (bronds, and gave 3 cheers to
44 Long live king George the third ! M and his
putting on his hat again was the signal f<* ac
tion, one <»f the mod desperate ever fought.
The greatest part of the time the two ships
were yard-arm and yard arm, and so close on
board, that at last the Nymph's people on tbe
tops actually vent from their own yards to
those of the Cleopatra, and cut the people
£001 their qturters*
Philadelphia* Aug. 51.
Abjlraß of further European ftiUliigcticc.
The Spanilh fleet is gone to bombard
Nice—a Huflian fleet with U.ooo soldiers
Which bad been near Stockholm was to fail
for.the Mediterranean to co-operate with the
Britilh anny—Gorfa« and Buzot have escaped
iom Paris—two of the profcribejl members
of the Convention.—Brifita also made his. s
cape, but it is said was taken at Motilities,
and was under an efcprt carrying to Paris.
Lyons has banithed the Commiffionerj-'bf the
Convention—that city with many others,
threaten to fend an army to Paris. The in
surgents, it was said io the Convention, make
no diftimjtion betweanariftocrats and patriots
—but consider all the rich as Jacobins ; best
other accounts lav they conduct with great
The Corifican flag was flying on
all the fortrtfles of that Island, except the
city of Bjiflia, where the republican flag was
{till difplaped.—Paoli it is said has tevolted
from the Con vention. Tl>e camp of the al
lies bsf'ore Valenciennes extends nine miles—
numbers of persons in that city have been
guillotined for having exprefled a wish to
surrender the city—there is plenty of provi.
si.ins there for men, but none for horses.—
There has been a fcreat commotion at Bruf
fells said to be instigated by Jacobin Emifla
t ies—it was not quelled till many lives were
lofl;. riot is said to have happened at Na
ples, on account ef the dearnefs ef bread.
A severe action has been fotight between
the Iris, an Knglifh frigate, and the Medee a
French; the former had seven killed and 33
wounded—the loss of her foremaft prevented
her purfoingher advantage and the Medce
escaped. The King of Spain iias pofitivtly
prohibited all trade and intercourse with
France. An article under the Paris head of
June 17, represents the late viftorv of Gaftoo
as decisive of the fate of the Convention, and
probably of the present form of government ;
his army is stated at 1 J3,000 men. General
Paoli has attached the French troops at St.
Florent. On the 23d June a member of the
Convention said that two armies were on
their march to Nantes—one of 33,000 and
another of Jo,ooo men. Biron, who com
mands the Conventi'Si army, it was said was
checked in his operations for want of bread—
That there were 62,00? well armed men in
the patriot army, to oppose the Royalists—
It was decreed that the Tocsin fliould be
founded in the Departments near Nantes —
The Englilh paragraphias fay that Gafton
having been joined by a considerable portion
ofSanterre's army that had been sent against
hinv, was 011 his march to Paris—lt appears
that after the capture ofSaumur there was
no strong hold between the Royalists and Paris.
It is said that the King of Sardinia has march
ed an army over the Alps—being encouraged
by the revolutionary A ifit in tbe Southern
provinces of France. General Cuftine it is
said has been arretted and sent to the bar of
the Convention as a Traitor to bis country ;
8,000 men from Cuftine's army have been
detached to resist the infuigents in Britanny.
The French State prisoners, Bournonville,
Camus, &rc. still continue in the German
fortrefs of Ehrenb'eitftein.-*—Gen. Santerre in
aletter to the Convention fays, that in addi
tion to innumerable enemies from within and
without, they have a new one to contend with,
and that is Desertion. The roads he fays are
covered with deserters from their armies.
Lord Maccartney's reception at Pekin, is
said to be certain, an answer to that efFect
having been received at Cannon from the
Emperor. It (lot appear that the trial
oFM Egalite had been completed at the date
of the lad accounts—though 'there are re
ports of his having been put to death. —Mr.
Paine it appears Is among those members
of the Convention who are said to have loft
the confidence of the people; he has long
been expe&ed in this countrjM—butit appears
according to the Englifli papers, that the
Convention have taken meafnr»s to prevent
his departure. Gen. Biron it is said has an
army of 12,000 men with which he covers
Nantes. —Cuftine arrived at Paris the 26th
June— The Convention Was occupied on the.
26th and 27th in deliberating upon the fate of
the imprisoned The Prince de
Conti, of the House of Bourbon has delivered
in a plain and unequivocal defence, in an
swer to all his accusations, by a statement of
his benevolent"and innocent life.
On the 17th June, Mr. Fox after a lengthy
speech, made a motion in the House of Com
mons'on the fubjeft of the war—the sub
stance wat to pre Pent an address to the King,
requesting that he would take the speediest,
and mod eflfeftual step* towards a general pa
cification, or at least ai far at Great-Pntain
is concerned. The Chancellor o( the Ex
chequer, Mr. Pitt, opposed the motion—he
made an animated speech on the occasion—
and on the question being pnt, the motion
was negatived.—Ayes 47. Noes 187—Majo
rity 14 3 '
A fubfidv treatv ha* been concluded with
he Landgrave of Heffe-Caffel, forßooo n»eo.
■o be paid, if wanted by Great Britain.
On the 7th July, Dr. Mountain, the new
bishop of Canada was consecrated by the
archbishop of Canterbury, at Lambeth pa
lace.
rails »f State Paftrt.
Additional inftruaiooi to commander, of
ships of war and privateera, from the Brmlh
Executive, dated June 8, 1793.
ift All vcffcli loaden wholly or in part with
flour, corn or meal, are to be prevented from
enter,tv; any port of F.»nce, «H places occup.ed
523
by the aimicsof France ; such ve-ffelg are to he
fern to such Engliflr ports as may be convenient
3nd purchased on behalf of the Bfitilh govern-'
mem, and tlie freight allowed.
At! »elf U t whatever may be their car
goes, that are found attempting to enter any
blockaded port of Franc-, are to be seized and
lent in tor condemnation.
That in cafe any port be declared block
aded by the King, the Britiffi thips of war and
privateers are to warn vefTelt which appear def
[ lined to fucb port, not to proceed ; but they are
not to moleit them afterwards, unless it fhail
appear that they have couttnued their cotirfe
with enter the blockaded port.
Ccatxntitobetween Rujfid and Great* Britain. '»_
A Convention between his Britannic Majesty
and the Empress of Russia, signed at London,
M«*ch ?s'h, 1793, Rates—That in eon fc que nee
of the uiijuft and injurious aggreflton of the per
sons exercifina th<j government in France, by
laying an embargo on all the British and Ruf
fian (hips-which were In the ports of th«t coun
try, and this aggrefljon followed by a declara
tion of war—the King of Great-Biitain and the
Empress of Rultia, Have tho't proper to concert
together on the meafts of opp »sing a haffier to
the danger which threatens all Europe, irt con
fcquence of such principles, views and conduct.
The fiift article which follows this preamble,
state?, that they will'exert all their endeavors
for luccnuring arid afljfting each other in the
course of the, present War.—Secondly. For this
end, they fngage to employ their refne6live for
ces in carrying on the jufl and necefifary war in
which they are engaged against France; and
they reciprocally engage not to lay down their
arms but by common consent, without having
obtained the restitution of all the conquests that
France may have tnade upon or upon
such other of the power*, friends or allies, to
whom the) shall fee proper to extend this gua
rantee by common confenr.
The aid article provides for flrtutting all their
ports against France.
The 41 h f provides for preventing any powers
not implicate d in ihe war, from giving direttiy
or indire&ly, in consequence of their neutrality,
any protcftion whatever to the commerce or
property of France.
The fifth article refers to a renewal of the
Commercial Treaiy of 1?66, between Russia and
Great-Britain.—Sixth. The ratifications to be
exchanged within 3 months.
a~~ o —
This Convention is followed by
signed the fame day, for refunding and reviving,
in all its .force and a&ivity, the Commercial
Treaty of 1776.
Circular Letter of the Emperor.
A circular letter of the Emperor of Germany,
addrcflfed to all the circles of the empire, ap
pears in the English papers. The object of this is
to countera£l the operation of French principles
—to prevent aflociations, clubs, municipalities*
See. as tending to infurre&ions and innovations ;
to prevent the immigration of fufpe&ed French
men into any part of the empire—to-.prohibit
fuj>plying theeiKJmy with any warlike stores—
excepting however the branches ps commerce
which arc not fpecified in the letters of inhibi-
_t.h*t none of, the States (hall
cvfcr dare to tefufe the obligations prefcn&ed to
them by the laws and welfare 6f the mpthef
country, under the pretence of neutrality, or by
any other evafion,grounded on private interests
and on principles of politics, which clash with
the engagements they have contracted with their
co States.—This letter is dated at Vienna, May
12, 1793.
By the (hip Andrew, Capt. Mak«ts, arrived
here Thsrfday from L'Orient, which place
(he left pn the 3d of July, We are informed,
that twtf severe battles had been fought be
tween Jhe army of the Republic, under Gen.
Biron,and that of the Insurgents near Nantz,
in which tlie latter were beaten and totally
routedjwith the loss-os 7000 in the firft action,
and 11,000 in the last.
Capt. Makins fays, he was with the officers
of the Municipality when the Courier arrived
with the intelligence of the defeat of the
Royalifts**-The aftlons happened on or about
the 28th June.
Paris papers are received by the above ar
rival to the 29th June. An article unrfer the
head at" Motional Convention, states, that in
formation was received of the defeat of thi
Royalists.
The Concord Frigate failed from Boston
the 34th-inft. She was fainted as (he parted
the CaMe, which was returned by the frigate.
Fourperfons (said to be Americans) were
committed to goal, in Boston, last week, being
found on-board a French privateer fitted out
in that town.
A French frigate of 44 guns, is arrived in
Patapfcb, Maryland, and a brig of 16—.also,
an finglifh (hip, a prize to the'above veflels"
Ihe wai from Jamaica, and bound to New-
York. A report prevails that there are a
number of sick on board the French frigate
and brig, owing to a malignant seven
Tuefilay last tfie General Assembly of this
Commonwealth convened at the State-House,
pnrfiiant to adjournment. • On Thursday the
Governor met both Houses in the Senate
Chamber, ttdieff he addressed them in a*pa
triotic speech. The two Houses afterwards
adjourned till Monday.
*J*he MayWr has forbidden the making of
Firfes in d* Offenders will be pro
fecnttd a;-re«»bly to the Ordinance."
The (hip Ariel, Capt. Decatur, from Bnirr
deiux to St. Tbomat, wai carried into Ltvcrpool
[jV a British cruiier.
The Little Democrat, and the C»rmjgnolf,
failed from Newcastle onTuefday moroiug.
Died, in thiacity, last Turfday mdrning, Mr.
Nathan Blodc.it, of Virginia, in the 43d
year of Kit age. Mr. Blodgit waa a gentle,
man beloved and refpefled in life, tod hit
death it greatly lamented.
StAuKToN (VWg.) Airgul to.
By funirj/ttttrlpmk an officer in lie WejUrn coun
try, to agcnHima i in thu town, dated Julj 'id,
1793, we learn the Jo/tewing.
" That Gen< Wayne with about 2000 men
had arrived at Fort Wafliington oi) the 7th of
May, and riiore Were eispetted, they encamp
ed oft the banks of the Oh:o, but were not
expected to remain there long. GiSn. Wil
kinfon on the 27th of May was encamped
with a few companies of infantry, and one o£
artillery, at Ludlow's {on Mill Creek) five
miles advanced of Fort Walhingto" i he had
opened a road from Fort Wafliington toFart
Hamilton (about 27 or 28 mites) 40 wide,
aifld cleared of every t*bftrtf£Vrmi. A te-w days
previous to this, Capt. Cuihing had been out
at Forts Jefferfon and St. Clair, picking out
the invalids, and all fucb as Were not lit for
actual i'ervice. These are to go to garrisons
and the companies from which they are ta
ken, will be filled up with thole from the gar
■ rifons fit for immediate ferviCe. A large
quantify of corn is taken to Fort Jefferfon,
where it is expedted" the greater part of the
army will soon be. In the beginning of June
Col. Strong, with a detachment of S°o mea
opened a road as wide, and in the like manner
as that formed to Fort Jefferfon, where they
were expected to stay for the purpofettf mak
ing hay, it was much apprehended this de»
tacbment would hare been attacked,but there
was not the least sign of an enemy : several
men 101 l themselves, and on their return said
thiy were chafed by Indians—but it Is proba
ble this was all fiction, Every possible prepa
ration was making for a campaign, but it
would be some time before the confluence
of the treaty would be known, ,arid the neces
sary orders from the war department could
reach tile army if war wa* to be carried or.
SHIP NEWS,
ARRIVED «i/ f^PORTo/PHILADELPHIA.'
Ship Adriana, Robidfon,
Bacchus, VannemaU*
Andrew, M ikiiia,
Brig Harriot, Holland,
Commerce,
Sloop Hope, Hufiey,
Dorothy* Jackson,
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, 18/2
3 per C-nts, ioj\
Deferred,- icjg
Full /hare* Bank tJ. $ per cent, adv..
Treasury Department,
71, 179?-
IN/f OTJCE is hereby given that proposals will
be received until the is»h day df O&ober
next, iticlufively, by David Henly at
in the Territory South Weft ot the Ohio, tof life
supply of all rations -which may be required tor
the ttfe of the United States* from the firft day o£
January to the thirty-firft day of December*
1794, both days inclusive, at the places, and
within the diftri&s hereafter mentioned, viz 4
1. At any place or places from the iqouth of
the River Tedeffee to Occochappo or Bear
Creek, on the said River inclusively.
2. At any place or places from the modrh of
the river Cumberland to Naftmlle, an the said
river, and at Nashville. 1
3. As any place dr places within thirty miles
of said Nashville to the fouthwaid, westward
or northward thereof*
4. At Bledfoe's Lick, or any place or placet
between the fa id Lick and Nashville.
5. At any place or places from Bledfoe's Lick
to the crofflng of Cumberland river, along the
new Trace, at or near the great Salt Lick, and at
the faicj eroding place over Cumberland river.
6. At any place or place? along the said trace,
from i,he eroding of Cumberland river to the
mouth of Clinch river, and at the said mouth of
Clinch river.
7. At »ny place or places between the said
mouth of Clinch and Knoxtille, and at Knox*
ville.
8. At any place or places on the (\orth.weft.
e'n frontiers of Walhington and Hamilton dif.
trifls, in the Territory Souih nl the Ohio, from
the mouth of Clinch to the Virginia linei
9. At any place or places on the southern
frontiers of the said diftri£l«o( Wa(hi«gton and
Hamilton.
iO. At any other place or in the terri.
Tory South of the Ohio, not bcrcin mentioned.
The rationi to be fupplicd are to coafift of th«
following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or $ of a pound of pork,
Half a jill of brandy, rum or whisky,
One quart of fait
Two quarts <jf vinegary
Two pounds of soap ( «* f ,O<J rit,on ''
One pound of candles)
*she rations are to be furnifhed in such quan
tities, as that there (hall at all times, during the
said trtifif be fufficicnt for the consumption rtt
the troopi at each fort or other ffattonary post,
which is or may be eftabli(hed for the fpuce of
at Ifaft three months in advance* in good end
wholesome provisions, if the fame (hall be re
quired.
It is to be understood in each caff, that all
loflTea sustained by the depredations of the ene
mies, or by mean* of the troops of the United
State*, (hall be paid for at the prices «f the ar*
ticlei captured or dellroved, on the depofyions
of two or more creditable characters, and the
certificate of a commiflioned officer, ascertaining
the circumftanceiof the loss, and the amount of
the articles for wfiich compensation is claimed.
Those who may become proposers are re
qu fled to tranfmtt without delay to the Secre
tary of the Trcafnry duplicates of their ptopofalt.
The propofalt will be decided upon at Knox
ville a'orefaid, where the said David Henly will
make known the offer which is accepted, aud
will conclude the contrad. *
Liverpool
Opqjio
L'Orient
Put back'
Boston
Nantuckct
V.rginiafKOU THE NATIONAL GAZETTE.
To the perjon xvho, undtt- the Jignatw r f. wrote
a fair ft Jonathak PIKO A*, in Saturday's
Gazette oj the United States.
Jonathan'* vei fe> some pnpoies will growl,
While others attack with a yell and a howl ;
Bui know. Mister C.
Til the Mlife's decree.
That Jonathan' iSiim.it Ihtll live and be known,
When youi'i to the bog-house of Pluto ate gone.
No fedetal num-fcull his verfrs indites ;
He fays what he thinks, and he thinks what he
wriirs :
Not an injtfl «n place,
But h»* pen ftiall disgrace;
Their tool*, and their tiouers, he hold* in dif-'
» dam,
And laugh* at some folks that are'feheming to
reign.
All johbrrt in p*W", h'» 1 a ffcel,
, And ItfHpers in office (hjUiwhi'mperand ftjurch
• ■ Ataflirt of"hiapcn,
The-liei #f- bi* Bsk,
Shaft inttt the tttfui they. ha»e long been in
:■" '-*<(cA»cfc <4-
While he and loriea.lo 9«rUebufc off.
FfVTH /i» 'PoiOWMAC GITARDI AN.
MR. WILLIS,
I CONFESS I can no longer restrain
n>y amazement at the cowardice
and base fpiritednels of us Ameri
cans. What! let the Britijb, a con
quered enemy, who heretofore was
but a mouthful for us, now insult
us—injure us—hang us like Tories !
Ah me, Mr. Willis ! if my neigh
bour, Cornelius Waterspout, or my
trusty friend Slop-top, were at the
helm of affdirs, we would have other
guess work o'nt—But no odds, some
of them are determined to offer their
Mr. Willis—the nation of
Great-Britain—found it, * Sir—ls it
more harmonious than the nation of
the United States ?—The Fleet of
Great-Britain—compare it—is it
more numerous, or more powerful,
than the Fleet of the United States ?
And as to our armies, experience
prpves what vast bodies of valiant
heroes we can mutter. And now,
S.ir, all true Patriots cry WAR—War
with Britain. The necessity and
utility of WAR, 1 shall evince, by a
few arguments which cannot be
evited.
As ift, all good governments have
found it necessary to their well be
ing, to prevent the introduction of
an over proportionate quantity of
riches—well knowing that riches
introduce luxury, sloth, effeminacy.
To engage in war hath been found
an excellent expedient to prevent
this—now the Americans being amaz
ing wealthy, possessing vast riches,
and moreover, being in great dan
ger of falling into the foremention
ed evils, it becomes highly neceflary
that they fliould be impoveriihed—
and that by engaging in WAR—
For that this is almost the sole end
and proper effei.l of War, is plain ;
and yet it is equally plain, that this
defiratle end will not he accom
plished anick enough, by the present
Indian War—hence the neceffiiy of
WAR with Britain.
The neceflity of War wiayalfo be
argued from the neceflity of certain
individuals amongst us. Many of
our mercantile gentlemen, have
been unfortunate in trade : they
have contracTted debts with BritiJb
merchants, which they are now un
able to pay ; but War will pay Bri
lijh debts. Men of courage and en
terprizing spirit will make rave
work amongthe enemy's merchant
ftiips. They will repair their for
tunes—reftore the honour of their
infnlted country —add to this, Sir,
that honour, national honour—calls
loudly for W AR.
Further, Sir—WAR would lower
the present enormous price of grain,
by keeping it in the country ; the
Farmers would be reduced to reason,
and we would be equally well ferv
ed with European goods, considering
the great number of Prizes that
would be captured, by our men of
War and Privateers.
And now, Sir, what is the proper
inference from all this ?—Why, let
us gird our swords oil our thighs,
and smite our enemies, the Britijh.
Let us conquer Ca.nada, and fubjedt
Nova-Scotia ; like the great RAM in
Daniel's, vision let us pufli North
'ward and Southward, and Eajtward
and IVeftviard. We are hampered
in our pofleflions—our population
is too great for our terrirory. Let
our Grand Fleet block up tlie ene
mies in port, while hundreds of our
privateers cover the ocean, and re
turn lately home, laden with the
spoils of our adversaries ; and, let
us never return our swords into their
scabbards, until we have fofficiently
humbled the little foot} iflaxdof Bri
tain ; and ellablifhed the liberty of
our great good friends the French—
For alas ! without us they can do
nothing.
1 am, Sir, yours, &c.
A FIERY DEMOCRATE,
ALIAS
aristocrats:.
Berkley County, ire.
To the Public.
THE Editor of the Ga/£t*te of the United
States, proposes publilhing the Paper,
under that Title, every Evening, Sunday's
excepted.
To render it interesting as a Daily Publi
cation, it lhall contain foreign and donieltic,
commercial and political Intelligence Es
says and Observations, local and general : —
Maritime information Priies Current of
Merchandize and the Public Funds. Also a
summary of the proceedings of Congress, and
of the Legislature of this State :—with a
(ketch of Congressional Debates, &c.
Advertizing favors will be gratefully re
ceived.
TERMS.
To be printed on paper of the demy size ;
but a larger size shall be substituted
ber next.
The price Six Dollars per Annum, to be
paid half Yearly.
When a fuftcient number of Subferibers is
obtained, the Publication shall ccpmmence.
In the interim, the Gazette will be publilh
ed twice a week as usual.—Subscript ons are
refpe<stfully solicited by the Public's humble
servant,
JOHN FENNO.
Subscriptions are received at the City Tavern,
South Second Sheet—by Mr. Dobfon % at the Stone
Houje—by other perjons who are in pojfeflion of sub
scription papers, and by the £dito'\ at his house,
No. 34, North Fifth-Street.
-JUST PUBLISHED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
BfukJcUer, at the Stone-House, in Second Jlrcct,
Philadelphia,
VOLUME IX, OF
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
OR, A DICTIONARY OF ARTS,SCIENCES,
and MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
On a Plan entirely new
BY WHICH
The Different SCIENCES and ARTS
arc digested into the Form of Diftiuft,
TREATISES OR SYSTEMS :
THJS V.OLUME COUTAIN!
HYDROSTATICS, Hygrometer, History of
Japan, I .eland, Jerusalem, Jews, India,
Inle£U, Infurante, Ireland, Italy, Kamfehaika,
Knighthood, Language, Law, Legerdemain,
with a great variety of Biographical Miscel
laneous Articles.—llluftrated with thirty-one
elegant Copperplates.
.CONDITIONS.
I. The work is printing on a fuperfine paper,
and new types, (cast for the purpose) which
will be occasionally renewed before they con
tra6t a worn appearance.
11. The work is furnifhed in boards, in volumes
or half-volumes, as subscribers chufe; the price
of the whole volumes, five dollars each, ot the
half-volumes two dollars and two-thirds of a
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on sub
scribing, the volumes or l|alf-vo*umes finifhed
to be paid for when delivered, the price of one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each Succeeding volume to be paid on deliver
ing the volume preceding it. No par,* of the
work will be delivered uolefs paid for.
111. In the course of the publication will be de
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia: which by
far cxeeed in nurpber those given in any other
Tcicntific d iflionary. At the close of the pub
lication will be delivered an elegant frontif
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for the different volumes,
It isexpefted the work will be comprifcd in
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
The fubfeription will continue open on the
above terms till the fir ft day of September next,
to eive opportunity to those who are not yet
fubferibers, to come forward.
Those who have fubfcrifced, and got only a
frnall part of the work, are requeued to com
plere their setts, as tar as ptiblifhed, as soon as
poflible, as after the firft of next September, by
which time the tenth volume is expe&ed to be
ready, thfe publisher will not consider himfelf
bound to make up those setts which are not
.completed up to that period.
Philadelphia, June 19, 1793.
INSURANCE COMPANY.
Philadelphia, July ift, 1793.
NOTICE is hereby given to the members of
the Insurance Company of Nor?+» Ameri
ca,'that the DirectorS have declared a divi'dend
(to this day) of fix per cent on the amount of the
firft instalment, and of one per cent per month,
on the sums paid towards the second and third
inftalmenis, calculating from the firft day of
the month fbllowing that in which thefc pay
ments were made. The Dividend will be paid
to the Stockholders or their Reprefentatjves, at
the Company's Office, (No. south Front-
Street) at any time after the 7th inft.
EBJiNEZER HAZARD, Sec'rv.
C=T As the members of this Company ate muck
dispersed throughout the United States, the Printers
in the fever atJiatts are requeued to give the above a
place in their ntivjpapers.
5 2 4-
THIS DAY /.< PUKIISHED,-
By THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Stone tiouje, Nq. 41, foutk Secotd-Street,
Medical Tranfa&ions
OF THE
College of Physicians
Of Philadelphia :
Volume I. Part I.
Pricc in boaids One Dollar.
Also lately pubh/hed by T. Dobfon,
Dr! UNDERWOODS treatise
On the diseases of Children, with general dt
re&ions for the management ot infants from
the birth, adapted both for the use ot Medi
cal Pradlitioners and private Families.
TWO VOLUMES IN ONI.
Price tne dollar neatly bound.
War Department,
Jugufl r//, 179?-
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
Military Irivalids of the United' States, that
the sums to which they are intitled tor si* months
of their annual pension, from the 4th day of
March last, and which will become due on the
sth of September next, will be paid on the said
day by the Commiflioners ot the Loans, with
in the Stales refpe&ively under the usual regu
lations.
By Command of the
President of the United States.
H. K N O X, Secretary at War.
N. B. The Printers in the refpeßivt States are
'requeued to publish 'he above in their neujpapers for
the Jp'ice of ttvo months.
Treasury Department,
Augujl 10, 1793-
NOTICE 5s hereby given, that Proposals
will be received at the Office of the Se
cretary of the Treasury, until the 14th day
of September next inclulively, to furnifh by
contrast the following- articles of Cloathing,
for the life of the United States, viz.
4,800 Hats,
j, 120 Stocks,
5,120 Stock-Clasps, •
20,480 Shirts,
5,120 Vests,
5,120 Coats,
9,600 Woollen Overalls,
9,600 Linen ditto,
19,200 pairs of' Shoes,
9,600 pairs of Socks,
5,120 Blankets,
320 Caps,
320 pairs of Leather Breeches,
640 pairs of Boots,
320 pairs of Spurs,
64** pairs of Stockings,
1,520 Rifle Shirts.
The cloathing to be delivered at the city
of Philadelphia ; one fourth pai t of the whole
number of suits on or before the 15th of Fe
bruary, one fourth on br before the 15th of
April, and the remaining half 011 or before
the 15th of June, 1794-
The articles must be agreeably to such pat
terns as shall be directed by the Secretary for
the Department of War. Payment will be
made as soon as the whole of the articles shall
have been delivered. epti4S.
ADVERTISEMENT.
New-Jersey, ) T3Y virtue of a Writ to me
SuJJex County. IT. ) J3 dire&ed, issued out of
the High Court of Chancery of New-Jersey, at
the suit of William Shipley against John Ming
and others ; I shall expose to laleat Public Ven
due, on the sixth day of February next, between
the hours of Twelve and Five in the Afternoon
of the fame day, on the Premises, thfc following
described Tra& of Land, with its appurtenances,
situate in the Townftiip of Oxford and County
of SuflVx, beginning at a Chefnut Oak Tree, cor
ner of Daniel Cox's land, and (landing in the
line of a former survey made to Thomas Steven
son, being marked with the letter B. and thence
extending along Coxe's !irie (firft) south filly de
grees weft fifty-five chainsand feventy-five links,
to a Black-Oak Tree corner of Jofepli Shippen's
land (second) south nine degree s and fifteen mi
nutes, weft ninetv chains and fiXty-five links to
a forked White-Oak Tree, maiktfd.with the let
ters R and B another of the laid Shippen's cor
ners (third) thence north eighty degrees, eaftone
hundred and forty-five chains, to a poll on the
southerly fide of Paquaofte-R iver, being also a
corner of John Reading's land (touith) thence
north thirty-nine degrees w.« if, orfe hundred
and thirty-two chains to the place of beginning,
containing nine hundred and thirty acres with
the usual allowance for roads and high ways—
The fame Premises are within eight miles of the
River Delaware, and there ii thereon a conveni
ent Grift Mill with two pa'ir ofStones—a Saw
Mill in good repair, with a fufficient ltream of
water for their use—a Dwelling House, Store
House, and several small buildings.
MARK THOMPSON, Sheriff,
Dated 22d day of July, i 793.
TICK E T S
In ifie FtDEkAL CITY LOTTERY,
May be bad at SAMUEL COOPER'S Ferry.
THE ED IT 0R
i MOST etrnefily requejls tkoft of his tijlant Sub
scribers uiho are in arrears for the Gazette, to make
payment as foonas possible.—Those persons who have
receivedfubfeription money on his account ate desired
to remit the fame. The arrearages for the Gazette
have accumulated to aferious amount—Serious, as
they are the only resource to discharge very serious
engagements incurred in the profccution of this er
penjive publication. Philadelphia, June 26.
THE Post-Matters and other peiTons
who may collect Subfcriptvons for the Gazette
of the United States, on the terms proposed ill
the address publilhed in our lad, are requelled
to forward their orders for the paper; l>y the
firft of November next.
TREASURY DtfPARTtf ENT\ ]unr a 6.1795.179$
NO 'I ICE is hereby given, 1 hat p<opo(ai> will
be received at the oriice of the Secrrtaty of
the Treasury, until the fourteenth day oi S» p
tetnber next ioelufivcly, for the lupply of dil
Rations which may be icquired for the uCe ol
the United Sutes, hoin the firft day of Januaiy
to the thirey-fi' ft day ol Dccembcr 1794, both
days iuclufive, at the places, and wubio the
diftri&s hereafter mcntrvned, viz.
a. At any place or places betwixt York-Tow®
and Carlisle, in the state of P nntylvama. and
Piufburgh,&ai Pit 1 fhu rgli, YOl k-iowu& Carl ifl-;.
2. At any pl<sce or place* from Piuiburgh to
the roou hof Big Braver Creek, and an the mouth
of Big Beaver Creek.
3. At any place or places from the said mouth
to the upper falls of the said Big Braver, and at
the upper falls.
4. At any pjace or places from the foid upper
falls to Mahoning, and at Mahosin?.
5. At any placc or places from the said Ma
honing over to the lle.j<£ Navigation of the river
Cavahoga, and at the fatd Head Navigation.
6. As any place or piaccs from thi said Head
Navigation to the mouth of the said uverCa)a
hoga, and at the said mouth.
7. At any place or places betwixt the mouth
of the Big Braver Cre< k, to the momh of the
rivfr Mufkingum, and up the said r:ver to the
Tufcarowas, and at the Tufcarowas, and thenca
over to the Cayahoga river, and thence down the
said river to its mouth.
8. At any place or places betwixt the mouih
of the river Mufkingum and the nioui h of the
Scioto river, and «»t the mouth of the laid river
Scioto.
9. At any place or places oetwixt the enough
of Scioto river & the mouth of the Great Miami,
at the month of the Great Miami, and from
thence to ine rapids or the falls of the Ohio,and
at the fail] rapids.
to. At any place or places betwixt the mouth
of the Great Miami, up the said Miami to and
at Pique Town.
11. At any place or places from FortWafh
ington to Fort Hamilton, and at Fort Hamilton.
At any place or places from Fort Hamilton to
Fort St. Clair, and at Fort St. Clair.
12. At any place or places from Fort St. Clair
to Fort Jifferfon, and at Fort Jcffetfon.
13. At any place or places bom Fort Jefferfon
to the field ot a&ion of the 41 h of November,
1791, and at the said fi< Id ol attion.
14. At any place or places fiom the said field
of a&ion to the Miami Villages, and at the
Miami Villages.
15. Ac any place or places from the said Mi
ami Villages to the falls of the Miami liver,
which empties into Lake Erie, and at the said
falls, and from thencc to its mouth, and at its
mouih.
16. At any place or places from the mouth of
the laid Miami river of Lake Erie to Sandufky
Lake; and at Sandufky Lake.
17. At any place or places from the said San
dufky Lake, to the mouth of the river Cayahoga.
18. At any place or places from the mouth of
the said % river Cayahoga to Prefque Jfle, and at
Piefque I fie.
19 At any place or places from Prefque Isle
to the stream running into Lake Erie from to
wards the Jadaghque Lake, and thenoe over to
and at the said Jadaghque Lake,and thence down
the Alleghany river to Fort Franklin.
20. At any place or places frorh Prefque Isle
to Le Beuf, aud at Le Beuf,
21. At any place or places from Le Beuf to
Fort Franklin, and at Fort Franklin, and from
thence to Piufburgh.
22. At any place or places from the rapidsof
the Ohio to the mouth of the Wabafh river, and
from the mouth of the laid Wabafh river to the
raourh of the river Ohio.
23 At any place or places on the East fide of
the river Mifliflippi, from the mouth of the Ohio
river, to the mouth o( the Illinois river.
24. At any place or places from the* mouth of
the laid Wabafh river up to Fort Knox, and at
Fort Knox.
25. At any place or places from Fort Knox up
the fiid Wabaih to Ouittanon, and at Ouittanon.
26. At any place or places from Ouittanon.
up the fa id Wabaih, to the head navigation of ■
branch thereof called Little River, and at the
said head navigation of Little River,
At any place or placts from thefald head
navigation of Little River over to the Miami Vil
lagt.
28. At any place or places from the mouth of
the river Teneffee to Occochappo or Bear Creek,
on the said river, inclusively.
fij 29. At any place or places from the mouth of
the river Cumberland to Nashville, on the said
river, and at Nashville..
30. And at any place or places within thirty
miles of said Nashville to the Southward, Well
ward or Northward thereof.
Should any rations be required at itoy places,
or within other diftrifts, 'not fpecified in thrfe
proposals, the price of the fame to be hereafter
agreed on betwixt the public and the contractor.
The rations to be supplied are to con fill of the
following articles, viz.
One pound of bread or flour,
One pound of beef, or of a pound of pork,
One quart of fait, J
Mwo quarts of vinegar, f
-p , r r > per ioo rations.
1 wo pounds ot loap, f r
One pound of candles, )
The rations are to be furnifhed in fuch xquanti
tics as that there (hall at all times, during the said
term, be fufficient for the consumption of the
troops at each of the said ports, for the space of at
least 3 months in advance, in good and whole
some pi ovifions, if the fame shall be required.
It is to beunderftood in each cafe,that all loflfef
fuflained by the depredations of the enemy, or by
means of the troopsof the United States, shall be
paid for at the price* of the articles captured or
destroyed, on the depositions of two or more
creditable chara6ter|, and the certificate of »
commiflioned officer, ascertaining the circum
flancesof tbe loss, and the amount of the articles
for which compensation is claimed.
The contrast for the above (applies will be
made either for one year, or for two years, as may
appear eligible. Persons disposed to contrast
will therefore confine their offers to oife year, or
they may make their propositions so as to admit
an election ol the term of two years.
The offers may compnfe all nie places which
have been fpecified, or a part of them onl^r.