A PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS B% -f&IH F£l*l*o, No. 3 s, fTOPTH FIfTH STRt
[No. 92 of Vol. IV.]
LAWS OF THE UNION.
SECOND
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT THE SECOND SESSION,
Begun and held at the City of Phi!a4lelphia,
in the State of Pennfvlvania, on Monday
the fifth of November, one thou (and
seven handled and ninity-two.
AN ACT to regulate the claims to
invalid pensions.
WHEREAS the ast psifcd at the last
Session of Congref?, intituled, " An
Ast to provide for thn settlement of the cjaiim
of widows and orphans bnrrciTßy ttx fnnifat
tions heretofore established, and to regulate
the claims to invalid pensions." is found by
experience inadequate to prevent the admis
sion of improper claims to invalid pensions,
and not to contain a fufficient facility for the
allowance of such as may be well founded :
THEREFORE
BE it enabled by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of Ame
rica, in Congress affeinbled, That the fccond,
third and fourth .fe&ions, of the said Ast, be
repealed, and that in future, all claims to
Jijch pensions shall be regulated in the manner
following, to wit.
First, AH evidence relative to invalids lhall
b<? taken upon oath or affirmation, before the
Judge of the diftrift in which luch invalids re-
Jide, or before any three persons specially au
thorized by commission from the said 1 ixdp^
Secondly, The evidence a "^
claimant Jiuit - Jf** lability to
Uie of known wound';, re
vived while in the a&ual line of his duty, in
the service of the U lited States, during the
iite war. That this evidence must be tbf
affidavits of the cqromanding officer or fur
gcon of the shir*, regiment, corps, or compa-
in which luch claimant served, or two
other credible witnesses, to the fame effect,
setting forth the time, and p-lace of such known
wound.
Thirdly, Every claimant (hall be exami
ned upon oath or affirmation, by two physi
cians or surgeons, to be authorized by com
mission from the (aid Judge, who (hall report,
ill writing, their opinion, upon oath ot affir
mation, of the nature of the said disability,
and, in what degree, it prevents the claim
suit from obtaining hi« livelihood, by labor.
Fourth!*, Every claimant (hall produce
evidence of the time of his leaving the fer.
vice of the United States, He must alio pro
duce evidence of three repufable freeholders
of the City, Town or County, in which he
uftially resided, for the two years immed;ate
ly after he left the service, as aforefaid, of
the existence of his disability, during that pe
riod; and afeertaining, of their own know
ledge, the mode of life, employment, labor or
means of (upport of the claimant.
Fifthly, And the said claimant must pro
duce the evidence of two credible ISfitnoHiw,
of the continuance of his disability, from the
expiration of ti<e (aid two years, to the time
of his application.
Sixthly, Each claimant must (hew a good
and fufficient cause why he did not apply for
a penfiorl to the person or persons authorized
to examine his claims, on or before the ele
vtnth of December, one thousand seven hun
dred and eighty-eight, the time limited for
applications of this nature.
Seventhly, No evidence of any claimant
ffiall be admitted whole claim has been ex
amined and reje&ed, on or before the afore
faid eleventh of December, one Thou and
seven hundred and eighty eight.
And be it further enacted, That the Judge
of the diftrift (hall transmit a lift of such
claims, accompanied by the evidence herein
directed, to the Secretary for the Department
ofWtr, in order that the fame may be com
pared with the Muster-rolls, and other docu
ments in his office ; and the said Secretary
fliail make a statement of the cases of the Paid
claimants to Congress, with such circum
flances and remarks, as may be neteflary,, in
order to enable tliem to take such order
thereon, as they may judge proper.
And be it further enacted, Tliat no person
naVon the pciifioii lift, before the twenty-third
day of March, one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-two, (hall be entitled to a per.fiou,
who shall uot have complied with the rules
and regulations herein prescribed ; saving
however to all pcrfons, all suid lingular tiieir
rights founded upon legal adjudication* under
the ast intituled " an ast to provide for the
fettluinent of the claims of widows and or
phj:,., barred br the limitations heretofore
eftablilhod, and to regulate the claims to in
Wednesday, Aprll 17, 1795.
ytW penfioKsßut it flialt he the duty of
the Secretary at war, 1 in conjunction with the
Attorney-G»eneral, to take luch niealures a?
may be necerfary to obtain an adjudication 0}
the Supreme Court of the United States, on
the validity of any such rights claimed under
the ast pforefai'd, by the determination of cer
tain persons styling tiieuifelves conuniifion
ers.
And be It further enacted, That no claim
to a pension (hall be allowed under this ast,
which (Sail not be presented within two years
from the parting of the fame.
JONAIHAN TRUMBUI.L, Speaker
oj the Umjc ej Reprefentattfes.
JOHN ADAMS, Viie-Prcfident if the
Ifnitei States, and Prejiieut of the Sen'nJc.
APPROVED, FEBRUARY 28, 1793-
GEO. WASHING I ON,
Prejident of the United States.
AN ACT providing Compensation
to the President and Vice Preli
dent of the United State*.
BE it ena&ed by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States'of
- It? Congfef! -l'icintiiod, 1 hat ii'om
and after the third day nt "March in the pre
(ent year, the coinpenfation of the Prdfident
of the United States lhall be at the rate of
twenty five thousand dollars per annum, with
theufeof the furniture and other effects be
lorging to the United States, and row in pos
session of the President: And that of the Vice-
Preiident, at the rate of five thousand dollars
per annum, in full for their respective Servi
ces, to be paid quarter-yearly, at the Tiea
filry.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
ej the House of Refirefentative j.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-President of the
United States, and Prcjrdevt oj the Senate.
Ar Y 18. 1793*
GtO. WASHINGTON,
President of the United States.
An ACT refpecfting Fugitives from
Jnftice,and persons escaping from
the Service of their Masters.
BE it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of
America, in Congress aflembled, That when
ever the executive authority, Stair 4iv
the Union, or of either of the territories
north-weft or (oath of the River Ohio, lhall
demand any person as a fugitive from justice,
of the executive authority of any such State
or territory to which such person (hall have
fled, and ihall moreover produce the copy of
an indictment found, or an affidavit made be
fore a magistrate of any State or territory as
aforefaid, charging the person I*o demanded,
with having committed treafbn, felony or
other crime, certified as authentic by the go
vernor or chief magistrate of the State or ter
ritory from whence the person so charged,
fled, it (hall be the duty of the executive au
thority of the State or territory to which such
person (hall have fled, to cause him or her to
be arretted and secured, and notice of the ar
rest to be given to the executive authority
making fuchdeir.and, or to the agent of such
authority appointed to receive the fugitive,
and to cause the fugitive to be delivered to
such agent when he (hall appear : But if no
such agent lhall appear within fix months
from the time of the arrest, the prisoner may
be discharged. And all costs or expenses in
curred in the apprehending, securing, and
tranfinitting foch fugitive to the State or ter
ritory making such demand, (hall be paid by
such state or territory.
And be it further enacted, That any agent,
appointed as aforefaid, who (hall receive the
fugitive into his custody, (hall b? empowered
to transport him or her to the State or terri
tory from which he or (he (half have fled.
And if any person or persons (hall by force set
at liberty, or rescue the fugitive from such
agent while tranfoorting, as aforefaid, the
person or persons so offending (hall, on con
vjftiun, be fined not exceeding five hundred
dollars, and be imprisoned not exceeding one
year.
And be it alfoenafted, That when anv per
son held to labor in any of the United States,
Or in either of the territories on the north
west or south of the river Ohio, under the
laws thereof, lhall escape into any other of the
said States or territory, the person to whom
such labor or service may be due, his agent
or attorney, is hereby empowered to seize ot
arrest such fugitive from labour, and to take
him or her before any judge the circuit or
diftrift courts of the United States, residing
or being within the Stitt, or before any ma
gistrate of a county, tity or town corporate,
wherein such seizure or arrest (hall be made,
and upon proof to the fatisfaftion of such
judge or mag'ftratf, either by oral testimony
or affidavit taken before and certified by a
magistrate of any such Stateor territory, that
the person so seized or arretted, doth, under
the laws of the State or territory from which
he or (hi ficd, owe service or labor to the
person claiming him or her, it (hall be the du
ty of such jjidce or magistrate to give a certi
ficate thereof to such claimant, his agent or
365
.
attorney, which fliall be fufHcient watrant for
removing the said fugitive from labor, to tfcc
State or territory from which he or ftve fled.
And be it further enacted, That any per
son who fliall knowingly and willingly oh
ftruft or hinder such elaimant, his agent or
attorney in so ieizing or arresting such fugi
tive from labour, or ft)all rescue such fugi
tive from such claimant, his agent or attor
ney wjien so arretted pursuant to the authori
ty herein given or declared ; or (hall harbour
or conceal such person after notice that he or
Ihe was a fugitive from labour, as afortfaid,
lhall, for either of the said offences, forfeit
-arid pay the sum of five hundred dollars.—
Which penalty may be recovered by and for"
the benefit of such claimant, by action of debt,
in any court proper to try the fafne ; saving
moreover to the person claiming such labour
ot service, his right of action for or on ac
count of the laid injuries or either of them.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
oj the House oj Reprefentttixies.
JOHN ADAMS, Vice-Prejiient of the
Uvilid Sfatet, and Frejident of the SebiUc.
H.bkua*Y is, >793-
GEO. WASHINGTON,
i FrefidtrtoJ the fhitcH State?.
FROM THE. ORACLE OF DAUPHIN.
PRINTED AT HARRISB UfcG H,
LOUIS, then, has at length ascended the fcaf
lold !— is at length— beh jaded !— Cruel
l-tej—Humanity supposes the crown might have
fuffifed—fuppofes that, ftript of the trappings of
rovslty—deprived of regal power —-Louis might,
n*y, ought to, have been permitted to live—a
cin.-cnof Fiance. However perfefl the rrpub
licm system of France may be; however con
ducive to the eftablifhmmt of univrrfal libeny ;
it will be viewed with horror by poftertty when
found fealcd with the blood of Louis XVI.—
It.humanity and insult tio not, cannot,conftitute
republicanism : but behold Louis! haplcls fel
low-creature i—The viteft criminals arc, in all
countries, permitted to address the surrounding
multitude, on the fuhjefl of their guilt or inno
cence, without interruption : but this, it seems,
wps too great indulgence for him. Unfortunate
l.i/uis!— The withholding that indulgence, how
ever, with the contemptible manner in which it
was withheld, was more degrading to his exe
cill toners, (not to fay MUR DKR F.RS) then nior
trir*. - Inluhing IKm -tn raameot
of deaili, while yej his foul hovered over the
verge t>f eternity, the fonnd of drums and
trumpets, was an inflance of contcmpt never Ex
hibited before ; derogaioiy to the charaflers of
Freach republicans; and which has fixed an
indelible blot oil the hiltoric page of France !
May luch conduct never be imitated !
All this contcmpt and ignotniny wasiinpofed
by the French on Loo is—who was oncc a mo
narch beloved —the pride of Frenchmen—lor
aspiring to the dignity which he once poffeflcd.
Is it reasonable to suppose, that Louis was, by
nature, a greater enemy to the freedom of man
kind, than the members of the National Con
vention ? Is it not the most eligible poittion,
that under the influence of a similar education,
and expectations, he would have ranked among
the forernoft patriots in Francc ? But where is
the man who, nursed in the lap of royalty, im
bibed with his firft milk, the principles of here
ditary right; and whose whole plan ol educa
tion had been calculated to inspire him with a
firm conviction of his indubitable right to sway
the sceptre, would have a£ted otherwifc ? Such
ideas instilled, I fay, into his mind from his
earlvrft infancy to maturity, not only by the
most linking precepts, but by the example of
his pre'deceffor, whose authority, so tar from
being controuled, or even disputed, was sanc
tioned by the united approbation and encomi
ums of his fubjefls, must neccffsrily have prompt
him to similar measures. Gratitude should rife
in proportion to the benefit received'; without
adveiting 10 the actuating cause : for, let that be
what it may, the benefit is flill the fame. Then
let us drop a mbutary tear to the memory of a
mail 1 , whofi- peculiar fituan'on in life exposed
him to fufferings, of which no other man was
capable, and whose only crime (if he was guilty
a crime) was merely the etteft of education.
The real service he rendered ut (when a King)
in our struggles for freedom, every circumltancc
ccmfidered, was alone fufficient to counterba.
lance all the political errors of hit lift, and de.
mand&our warmcft gratitude.
FROM THE PITTSBURGH GAZETTE.
LOUIS CAPET has lost his CAPUT.*
FROM my use of a pun, it may fcem that X
think lightly of his fate. I certainly do.
Ii afkt'rs me no mote than the execution of
another malefattor. Less indeed, becaufc know
ing the commiseration which will ensue on the
falfe principle o{ eftimanng highly the misfor
tuues of great perfonagea, I feci a contempt of
this diftinfVion in favor of rank,and am ditpofed
to commiserate Hi than in the cafe of Tome ob
scure and unpitied- rogue that goes to the gal
lows, without a tVmght to furtive him. Be
cause few pity bim, I WiU be one of ihofe few :
but in the cafe of Louis, bc£aufe there are fu
many King*, and Queens, and Aristocrats
throughout the world, to mike a mountain of
the matter, I ditdaio to join with them, or leel
pity at all.
'T, PHIL A
[Whole No. 4 i 4. i
wa.«. ffufJrv,!hirrt c-'M bo .no d<*u^»f.
!t was scar ckly i'K na Tim£
THAI HE SHOULD NOT ftE■ GUILI -V.
Who ever pain J with wlrwn |je
could keel) it ? Som.e haife o*r4ys wMi
life—fomp with pow<;r — ! Marows,
Btuius and Atticns, witli life: iViocieGan »n<t
Chailes, with power : filicide in r'hr one cak,
and resignation in the other. 'But gtv£ ui« an
example of one acfjuiefcmg from tlietieart in
au abridgment of power, arid retaining the re
mainder. Pride and ambition will be nothing
rathrr than half what it vvaf. A man that haa
been in the habit of .ij&ating everv thing but
the power of thought to those of mankind abound
him, cannot have become such a .philosopher, as
to reduce his mind with his> state, and be fat is—
fied with a rcftrised controul. You that <=»
well tame a grown up wolf, or a bear. To a
certain e-.tent Louis was sincere. He wa» wil
ling, nay anxious, to procure for the people all
the happii.efg he could give them under dcfpqt
ifm ; that if, a convention of the ita«es, in order
tochoofc their own ways arid tncs»ns of fuppfy
irig him with money. But be bad no idea of
retrenching his He was not sin
cere in the adopting the cnnrt?r»uicn. H:s oath
wasfaHe; his council* infidio'is ; his object fub
■Sjngtfrion bv ife* atffiftartce <X fc* brcttHef-kings,
it wh at stake whether he (hortld hicceed, and
trucidate half a million ot fubje&s ? or whether
his fubje&s (hould decapitate hun. Had he
fuccccded, wbnld his brother arid aViflo
crats, fel* commtfeiatiott at a recital of the
trucidation of democrats ? Nq: they would
have (miffed the air that brought the account,
as if fragrant with odoriferous odours Why
tHeri such a'noife even wiih republicans about
the death of Loui& ?
Wajhirgtor, April i, 1793.
* Caput'ii ihe Latiii wbrd fnr head
BRITISH habits, BrTtifh affections, ideas, at
lachinenis, piejudices, and even rcfentroents
have vegetated rapidly in this country since the
late war. No better evidence of this truth is
wanting than the torrent of abuse daily poured
forth from mapy of the American prefTcs tvy the
vile tools of Hritlfh minifterialifm and Britjih
against ihe republicans and
patriots of France, and the caufir, which Ame
rica, at least, from her own recent fuffcrings,
ought to eftetm the cause of human nature. —
Tl nie enlightened Citizens of America know
how to venerate the French, and w'rtfctft not be
considered in Eurdpe and by every 'confident
character here as degenerate from the manly
principles 0L1776, they will turn with abhor
rence from the men, who by the aid of the press
are endeavoring tb prejudice the community
against Franee, and to exeite the fympath? of the
public in favor of royalty, eternally extirpated
as.it is from 'his country, and from the hearts
of all true Americans.
Foreign Intelligence.
France.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
Friday, February 3.
Massacre tif the Second oj September.
A Deputation from the- society
of Def enders of the sole andindt
vifible Republic (Jacobins) of Paris
appeared at the Bar, after which
one of them spoke as follows :
" We hoped that the death of the
Tyrant would have put an end to
all animosities ; butyou have order
ed the minister of justice to prose
cute the authors of the occurrences
of the 2d and 3d of September, Or
der him also to prosecute the authors
of the maifacres in the Champ de
Mars, and at Nanci; and thole per
sons who signed the petition of the
Feuillans : all of whom we have al«
teadv pardoned.
" The 3d and 3d of September
are not such as they have been re*
presented.
" Did pot the people know, that
there were innumerable villains con
fined in the prisons by the counter
revi>luii®nary tribunals ; and that
they intended to fortify thcmfelves
there, and procure the King's escape
by means of a junction with the
Chevaliers of the foignard ?
" The people puniflied the guil
ty, and set the innocent at liberty.
After this they flew to the frontiers
and conquered the enemy.
" Legislators ! these excefles ought
to be urged againlt thole who pro
voked them ; and you ought to re*
colled, that popular vengeance is
but a fupplpment to the laws. We
A FREEMAN,
!OAf THE NATIONAL GAZETT£.therefore demand, that you repeal
your former Decree."
Another deputation from the sec
tion of Marseilles made a limilar rc
queft.
M. Laujuinaii affirmed, that up
wards of 8000 perfbns had been af
fallinaUi) lioiii the 2d to the-91b of
Septembei, 11. different puns oi the
kingdom. [Here the Convention
made a great clamcir.]
M. Chabot I'.iid, that he had been
nccufed of participating in the mas
(acre of the 2d of September ; but
he bad bathed the hands of many
of the Mai ltjllpis with tears, pud ac
tually preserved fevet al of the pri
soners Ironi the fury of the popu
lace, He concluded by • aliening,
that initead of five or lix affaflins,
there-were no less than io,o©o men
armed with inulkets and hnjonets,
and that Manuel and Petion were
privy to the founding of the alarm
bel).
After a short but tumultuous de
bate, ill which ojjc member termed
the other Scehrat, the Convention
decreed, that .all proceedings (hould
be (topped until the report was re
ceived from the minister ofjuftice.
A letter was read from thecommif
faryofthe maiiue at Ville Franche,
announcing that ail the inva
lids and Tailors had emigrated from
that city, and taken up an afyium
in the States of the King of Sardi
nia, that they might not be com
pelled to serve 011 board the /hif>s
of the Republic.
The commissioners at Liege write,
that provisions for the army arrive
from all quarters ; that the persons
difpatclied to Oftend, have found
in the town ofGhent, abundant am
munition, and a garrison of 3000
Belgians, and that order was upon
the eve of being restored in all the
other cities, in which there are yet
no military hospitals, pay m afters,
or magazines.
STOCKHOLM, January 18.
On the 15th inft. a deputation
waited on the Duke Regent, to as
sure his Royal Highness of the fide
lity of the citizens of the capital.
The deputies were most graciously
received, and had the following as
surances made them :
" That it was the intention of
the Duke Regent to deliver the con
stitution established by the deceased
monarchy as well as all the privi
leges and prerogatives attached to
it, in all their integrity, to the king
his nephew, on his coining of age."
This declaration has occalioned liere
a general contenr. His Royal High
ness has also revoked the form of
the process relative to the regulati
on of ecclefiaflical affairs, adopted
by'the Diet in 1789. Every thing,
in short, is to be placed on the an
cient footing.
W E S E L, (Ger.) Feb. 2.
Proclamation ky the Emperor.
" Convinced tnat our faithful fub
jedts of the Netherlands will not be
happy unless they enjoy the rights
and privileges granted to them by
our ancestors, and wilhing to reign
over them only as a tender father
reigns over his family, we publicly
declare that our intention is that
they shall enjoy these rights and
privileges in their full extent ; and
that we will exert all our fti ength
to prevent the infringement of them,
as well as to re establish all things
011 the fame footing as that on which
they were under our great grand
father Charles VI. It is agreeable
to our way of thinking, to a«ft with
kindnefsand clemency even towards
the enemies of the Belgic provinces
and others. For this reason we
grant a general amnesty, and with
out exception, promising that every
thing which has hitherto patted shall
be buried in the 1110 ft profound ob
livion, and we desire that those who
at jurefent hear arms againlk their
coufttrjvand w ' lo are comprehend
ed under the name of Belgians,will
peaceably return to their families,
lince they are not excepted from
the prefrnt general amnesty. As
some words liable to tnifconflruc-llon
may have flipped into this declara
tion, we proiftife to repair in perf'on
to rhe Netherlands, to deliberate
jointly with the Three Estates unit
ed, on every thing that ni3y remain
to be fettled, in order to eftablith
the repole and tranquility of thole
provinces,-and to efiedt their happi
ne(s>.
" Done at Vienna, this 16111 of
December, 1792.
(Signed)
LONDON, Feb. 13.
It appears that the French,doubt
ful, perhaps, of the pacific indenti
ons of the British Cabinet, ini'ured
in London a great number of their
expected fh'ps. This was done
when exchange flood at 18 or 20!
Tiie Ottoman Porte has obfiged
M. ChoifeU) Gouftier to leave Cun
ftantinople, and avowed its inten
tions to recognize the new republic.
The fnltan is now making prepa
rations for war againil Ruiiia The
recovery of the Crimea is said to
have lately become the objert- of
his ambition ; and iii this projedt
he is promised to be aififted with
a French fleet.
The emperor is expected to re
pair in a few weeks to the army be
fore Frankfort, in order to open
the approaching campaign.
Pelletier was a man of considera
ble fortune—He was owner of two
of the fined estates in France ; St.
Fargeau in Puifaye, and Mont Joye
near Autun. Although he had a
very fupei b house in Paris, he lived,
according to the present system of
felf-dc-nial in Paris, in a fill ail' apart -
ment on the fourth floor—Hh ' fa
ther had been rigorous to his vaf r
falls, and |he son deemed himfelf
bound to repair his errors. His
wife was the daughter of Fleuryt—
She brought him one daughter, liv
ing now, and died herfelf of a Milk
Fever. Pelletier had four brothers
by the second marriage of his fa
ther. Very conscientiously he re
futed to become a member of »ny
of the clubs of Paris.
The Alvados, Haltel, from Mo
fambique, is arrived at the Isle of
France, after having experienced a
dangerous infurre<flion of her ne
groes, in which 50 of the wretched
men were unavoidably put to the
sword.
Methodists..—That this body of
people are well affetfted to the pre
lent constitution, the following an
ecdote will fufficicnily prove. At*
the lalt conference of their preach
ers, it was intimated that a Metho
dist had said or wntte/i foinechtug
which was construed to be unfavor
able to the existing governnient.
Upon which the whole body of
preachers to the number of 130,
came unanimously to the following
refolntions :
ift. None of os (hall, either in
writingor coiiverfation,fpeak slight
ly or irreverently of the govern
ment under which he lives.
2d. We are to observe, that the
Oracles of God command us to be
fubjedt to the higher powers; and
that-honor to the king is there con
nected with the fear of God.
The Metliodifls do not conficier
themselves as a feparate.bpijy, atwd
have therefore figtied the addrelfe
to his Majefly, in all the cities,
towns and parishes through the
kingdom where they reside.
Advertifemcnt Extraordinary. '
Wanted a handsome fleet of French
flat bottom boats, to have
from time to time on the Suffexand
Efl'ex coafls, to be landed occasion
ally—in the minijlerittl papers. N. B.
A good price will be given.
The declaration of the, King of
Pruflia is more adapted to the meri
dian of the 14th, than of, the 18th
century. To tell the Poles of Peace
at the very moment that he is let
ting lose the dogs of war against
them, is an infnlt to the Majefly of
Human Nature. It is " treason to
God's own image, rational and im
mortal man."
If we substitute the name of Wil
liam Pitt for Lord North, we
find that this is begun under exact
ly the fame auspices as the Ameri
can war. Hawkefbury, ci-devanc
Charles Jenkinfon—Loughborough,
Gower, how Stafford—Dundas—
Jack Robinson, &c. &c. were all in
play that time as now.
Frederic 111. Grand Duke ofTuft
canj', has jutt acknowledged the
French Republic, in a letter gddrelF
ed to the executive' council ligued
366
«« FRANCIS."
Ii was afterwards un Jerftood that
he as innnediaiely repented of this
connivance,and look e(Fet r tual means
to prevent the Royal Family from
accomplishing their purpose.
It is certain that the Queen has
always aflerted and been convinced,
th?t their disappointment and con
sequent detention, is to be imputed
to La Fayette. Hence her resent
ment to hiin has been implacable.
This account, if not true, is cer
tainly plausible ; and if it be really
underflood by the Sovereigns of
pruiiia and Austria, that La Fayette
did acftually do what this reprefent
arion implies, we can the less won
der that the treatment which he ex
periences is rigorous and levere.
No one fa<fi has yet been proved
that can criminate the unfortunate
Queen of France !
It is difficult for us to conceive
upon what pretence they can l'uni
nion the fuffering Antoniette to a
trial—But why, when the mention
of French trial is darted, does any
one think they need a plea for fucli
facrifices I Js not the vile Orleans
among them ?—" There they are,
" Let ihe Devil and the Duke
We understand the firit Hep to be
taken with refpeCi to the Dauphiu
of France, will he to declare him il
legitimate—Thus adding insult to
injury, with that savage and caiiou«
spirit which is now become thecha
i;arteriftic of the French of Paris.
When Mr. Fox heard of the af
faifination of Louis XVI. he is fait]
to have remarked that " France was
bent upon provoking an unanimous
war agaTnit iierfelf, and of making
it impoflibie even for her friends to
serve her." Who the friends were
thus alluded to, we do not hear,and
cannot permit ourselves to conjec
ture—Nothing would be so irksome
to us, as even by insinuation to
Septeuil, the worthy treasurer of
the civil lilt of the late Louis XVI.
is at present at Southampton, deep
ly afflicfled at the loss of a beloved
matter. This gentleman is', by his
loyalty, kept from a personal pro
perty of 20,0001. per annum.
Brissot' opinion on the King's fen-
V In the opinion I have already
presented, I declared that Louis ap
peared guilty of the crime of high
treason, and that he deserves death.
" I was, and a»i still convinced' l
that the sentence of the Convenri
tiott, be it what it may, must be
pregnant with dreadful inconveni
encies.
" I was, and am still convinced,
that the sentence of the Nation,*
whatever it might have been, would
have none of those inconveniencies,
or thac if it involved any, their ef.
feels would have been guarded a
gainlt by the energy ot notional
omnipotence.
" 1 he Convention has negatived
the proposition for an appeal ; and I
fay it with grief, the evil genius
which didtated this aecifion, has
prepared incalculable misfortunes
for France
" They are inevitable, whatever
system is adopted by the Conventi
on ; for I Tee in a vote far confine
ment, she feeds of disturbances, a
pretext for-the a preiext
for calumnies which will be brought
forward again 11 the convention,who
will be accused of pufilanimiiy, of
corruption, &c. tending to deltroy
that confidence of the public in
them, so necell'ary in the present
critical circoniftances.
* Br ittoT w " in rcfering final iudc
tncat to tijc Pi iinaiy AiT&inolies. °
by liimfelf, and dated Florence, Ja
nuary 16, 1793.
La FAYtTTE—The harlh and ri
gorous treatment ■which this unfor
tunate Genei al lias experienced dur
ing his captivity, has provoked uni
vei fil conjecture, and indeed has
been uniformly repiobaied. Acor
refpoudem who has lately returned
from the continent fays, it is to be
explained in the following manner :
It was always reported,and is now
believed in France, that when the
King and Queen attempted to make
their, escape, and were Hopped at
VSremies, It was with the know
ledge and connivance of LaFayette.
alone to accuse 'em."
" Wrong an honorable man."
tence,
" I fee in the vote for death the
%naJ of s dreadful war a ~
which will colt much blond ar.,|
treuiure to u.y country ; ail( i • %
»»t lightly that 1 advance this QC i.
nion : not that France need dread
tyrants and iheir TateJlites ; bun, ,
tjons led atti ay bv calumniesagainft
the (tnience of the convention win
nnite with them : a,.d f or f!lU '
lon I had been .n fav... „f an
to the people, because by lhis JJJ 1
of ' proceed,ug, tjum ßWo „M be o
bliged to relpect il le fentei.ee a { a
great people ; (ila ,
could not then be led a(t,ay bv
them j because in c.le of a., J
tack, the r rench people would be
unanimous in their oppofitlori to
lucli a coalition.
•• Convinced, that the fenteoce
pronounced by the convention wi |j
be followed by misfortunes, shav e
long been searching for a iii a( J e 0 f
puniflimein, most confident wi,i,
justice, and uioft fafe for the public
interest ; which would secure to
the convention the lefpedi of all
parties ; which would conciliate the
esteem of nations ; which would
terrify tyrants and interfere with
the intrigues and inienrionsof their
cabinets, who all wish for the death
of Louis, because they want to ren
der their war popular ; which would
interfere with ihe plans of the p,e
tenders to the crown ; which would
finally, unite the nation to the fen
teiice of the cinvventimv. * • .
" All tliefe defidtrata I find j n
the fen ence of deatli, with the a
mendinent of Louver ; that g
fufpenlion of'the execution, rill af
ter the ratification of ihe coiiftumi.
on by the people.
" From the above motives, I
have preferred this fenteice to that
of imprisonment, though this laitis
supported by men whom i eileem—
though supported by Thomas Paine,
and the willies of 4,000,000 of free
Americans. This fatft I can with
confidence aver, becatife I am well
acquainted with those efliuiable re
publicans. 1 prefer the fen tence of
(leirtw,^,h a fufnenfion of the exe
cution £ - ,
n • . , - of the
confutation ; becaulcTfii*
on places your judgment under the
fafeguard of the nation, bccaufe it
gives to your feiuence a chara&er
of difintereltednefs and magnani
mity which I wish to fee it clothed
with ; becatife, finally, it pnites
the whole nation to one sentence,
the only means by which the nati
on will be enabled to appease inter
nal troubles or oppose external vio
lence.
"My opinion will be calumniated;
it was'the fate referred for my opi
nion whatever it might be. 1 will
answer calumnies only by a life free
from reproach ; for 1 defy here my
enemies to cite a single faift ; I
(houid answer it by my honorable
poverty, which I shall bequeath to
my children ; and perhaps the mo
ment is not very diltant when tbey
will inherit this iorrowful legacy ■,
but until that moment, which 1#•
wait with composure, 1 will answer
calumnies only by my indefatigable
zeal to maintain the system of or
der without which a republic is no
thing but an adembly of villains.
" Citizens, Itl well,and I ought to
dwell upon this part of my opinion ;
a storm is gathering ; it will be vi
olent : France canrefilt it ; buiher
fbccefs depends upon one thing. If
we do nor extirpate the disorganiz
ing principle which disturbs us in
every shape, I fay it with the confi
dence of n man who knows your de
bilitated situation, your refoorces,
those of your enemies, rheir princi
pal supports, if this disorganizing
principle is not annihilated the re
public will soon no longer exist.
" I vote for death, fufpendiug its
execution until the ratification of
the constitution by the people."
Dumourier's present objeifl i»cer
tainly to become temporary telW
of the Ainfterdam bank—buthepf*
baps may find Tome difficulty in ef
fecting his purpose, for the Dutch
directors iiave inundated the whole
country round it, and positively pro
test again!! his drawing on them
without due notice ; his bofineft
with them mull therefore be cur
rent and done wirh 4be oftial gracc
—vi?. so many days after fig'it.Domestic Articles.
CHARLESTON, March Y>.
The company for opening the navigation ot
the Catawba river is revived, and proceed
ing with sprit in making the arrangements
for competing the object ot their mft-.tution.
At a late meeting they elected the honorable
Grimke, for their Preiident; and the
honorable William Smith, Gabriel Maiiigault,
T o iin S. Cripps, Charles E. Miller, Cbnftian
Sens, und Dav.d Ramsay, Elqrs. Directors
It is witli pleal'ure we notice a novel insti
tution that place in this city, within
a few days pal*, which equally contributes to
the comfort and con venience of our citizens,
as well as strangers—we mean the eftabhfti
ment of hackney coaches, which now daily
ply in our streets.
BOSTON, April 8.
£xlra3 of a letter to a gentUmsn ' hi ' tcmn ' da " d
Port-au-Prince, March 13, 1793-
«' The army which is out on the Plains have
pat quarrelling among themselves, and are
coniinff in to day, to leave the Plains to the
mercy"of the Negroes, and you mav depend
that it will all be burnt to ashes. The Mu
nicipality made a request, or rather ademand,
yesterday, that all the mailers of veflels fhoqld
furnifli one third of their crew to go out 011
the Plains—which they refute. They are
willing to guard the town to save tlietr own
goods if possible. What' will be the conse
quence of our refufal I don't know ; but we
luppofe that they will lay a general embargo.
The people ate in the greatest consternation
you can conceive ofthey exfleft when the
army coines in thev will again fight among
themselves, and if they do, this town will
again be burnt. There is another circum
ftsicc 'vHch u!« aw.afraid Commiffary
is expeftsd here every moment, from, the
Cape,' to enforce some ast, which the people
here are determined fhnll not take place
How it win lie fettled, God only knows. I
with I was clear of this place of contusion, tu
mult and disorder ; but it is impossible—they
will not let cfre go."
htrad of a letter dated Au* 14, jrom
letter twin* "w* » » »-« -IT
« Mertihtr of the Colonial AJjembly.
" -Tranquility is not yet restored td/thu
Col«ny, cannot be restored Until' f>ell»
force,s Wcive, commanded by true repub
lican'- , . •
" SOme of the rebels haye lately set tiro to
the iiigar works in the des Ances, be
longing to several planters."
By Ihe ttturss from a grept number of
towns, (Here I* nu'doubt but the preient Go
vern«r aid Lieutenant-Governor will be re
Hoitsn.i« ejeifted j Eed»r«t- a '
prefejiUtirfc-— —"
IN WHALE FISHERY.
Cipt. Paul Worth, of Nantucket, in a let
ter to a friend of his at that place, communi
cate? the following agreeable intelligence of
thefuccefsof our Whalemen fitted out the
paftfeafon. He dates the letter from Marti
nico, lSth Feb. 1793 —and mentions, that he
has >ios barrels of sperm. and 2000
whale-oil.
Obad. Barnard, on the coast of Peru,
20th July,
George Bunker, ditto,
William Swain, on the Brazil coast,
20th December,
Gilbert Folger,
Seth Coffin,
David Barnard,
Philip Fofdjck,
Zenus Coifin,
Peter Foidick,
William Gliiby,
Thomas Brook, 70 sperm and
barrels whale.
Dunkirk 1 nth Deccmbtr.
PHeg Bunker,
Benjamin Paddock,
Prince Coleman,
The Penelope,
William Hawer,
HARRIS&URGH, (Perm.) April 8.
from a Correjpvndent.
I. IT&kARY INTELLIGENCE.
A gentleman lately from Fiance informs, that
tlie love»s of modefn ethics will Ihortly be gra
tified with ihe foWowing cdnlolatory publica
tions, vie. 14 The Wrongs of Man," by Mi.
Paine; being a masterly illustration, in the way
of contrast, ot his former fubje£fc— 14 The Mille
nium, a poetical Vijiort," by J. B. a fraternifed
Ameiican—" State Regeneration, or the politi
cal RWf&ngs of Aiheifm," by Citizen D ipom—
And ** The Id<-a of Humanity on the new Srhemc
of universal Fraternity," by Ci'iz-ns Egalite
and kobetfpierre—an immortal work, with this
motto, haifl M'Fmgal—
hor now in itfprimptolfmfc,
Ike term, human'tk comprehends „
All things+of which, on this fide he/f,
IKc human mind is capable.
BALTIMORE, April 10.
YeflercUy arrived here, the Ichooncr Port-au-
Prince, L<viw Jones, master, in 8 days from S;.
Domingo. During Capt. Jones's stay at St. Jc
rrmic, the mulattocs had revolted ; and at the
timcol bis depart lire, thf ditturbances had not
fubQded. About the *Q(h of .March, a whaling
(loop put iiuo Jcrenv.e, and informed, that a
few" nights before, they loft their Captain and
fix haorfs. She w« callcd the Sally, Captain
Howland. #
Philadelphia, April 13, 1763.
At a meeting of Che Aldermen of the City
of Philadelphia, held at the City-Hall this day,
tliey proceeded to the choice of a Mayor for
the catalog year, when Matthew Clakkson,
Elqoirc, appeared to he unanimously re
elected. Rohxi Huiy DuNUMj Clk.
Philadelphia, April 17.
Articles of accusation and impeachment
for high mifderneahon, were palled again ft
the Comptroller General of flits Common
wealth, by the Houle of Reprefenfatives at
their late feflion. The charges refer princi
pally. to certain negotiations and speculations
in public securities. The House referees to
itlelf the liberty of exhibiting at any time
hereafter, any other accusation or impeach
ment against thefaid Comptroller General.
The Legislature of the state is adjourned to
the fourth Tuesday in August next.
Wjn. Colt, s!'q. Treasurer of tlx state of
Conjjeiftiqut, U. appointed fupcrintendaDt of
the Manufa&ory of Paterfon, N. J.
A publication in a London paper, fgned
Charles J. Fox, Colonel Fitzpatrick, Lord
Robert Spencer, &c. contains the following
declaration !
u That we will, all and each of us, in our
refpeftive stations, colle&ively nd irdividu
ally, contribute every assistance in our power
to the due execution of tl*e laws, the mainte
nance of civil order and government, and the
immediate suppression of all riots and •tu < -
mults, under what pretence soever they may
be excited ; to discourage all illegal meet
ings, and all seditious and inflammatory wnt r
ings, calculated to mislead and seduce the
people from their allegiance, and render them
blind to their true interests."
The Indian Chiefs who lately went froin
this city to the eafte n states, left Boston the
week before last, on their return to the Indian
country.
Various are the reports in circulation—
Spain it is said has declared for a neutrality
in the war; but at the fame time the Spanish
Court is gone into mourning for the late King
of Franc j.
There Is a letter in town from LUbpn,
dated the sth of March, which cpntains the
following account':— a That France has de
clared War against Spain—that a French
cruiser has taken a Spanish velFel, loaded with
hides and tallow, and having on board 100,000
dollars specie—that the Britilh government
had publicly recognized the Dauphin as King
of France—that Lisbon was arming with vi
gour, and would have a fleet ol (hips of the
line in a few days ready for sea."
The fliip America, Capt. Bright, from Cal
cutta, is aVrived at New-York.
A correspondent observes, that as English
accounts of French affairs are said to be par
tial, i'.icqrre.'fl and falfe* ij: is much to be de
sired that the public might be favored with
Tranflatiohs from the Leyden Gazette, un
paper publiflied in Europe,
is constantly received in this coun
try.
A bill has been brought into the Irish House
of Commons to discontinue the rcftraints and
disabilities heretolore imposed by on per
sona in that country profefling the Roman Ca
tholic religion.
A motion h*# alio brer* matte jrrrd irgrerd vof
for the House «o go into a committee of the
whole on thefubjeft Ma parliamentary reform.
The Roman Catholic bill originated with the
Hon. Mr. Hohart. The motion lor the com
mittee on a reform, with Mr.
These salutary mcafures appear to be the re
sult-os accommodating principles, which it is
found neceff.vry to adopt, in order to ensure
unanimity at the prcfent intcrefting crisis of af
fairs. Should the people of Ireland find a re
dress of their public grievances in consequence
of the war with France, ii will verify the pro
veib, "that it is an ill wind which blows nobody
any good."
700
600
700
700
400
none
100
(AYS A CO R B ESPOKDE NT (
The real friends of freedom and the equal
rights of m*n in the United Siaies, and io ail
other countricxs, are the h tends of reafwn, juilice
and humanity; but there are those in aii Darn
of the civilized world, who while they a flu me
the honorable appellation of Republicans, dis
cover the mod intolerant and rancorous temper
towards those who piefume to controvert the
juiltce of maxims which lead to the ixieimina
tion of the human race.
6 DO
700
9X»
010
J 2:? i
Extract of a letter from a gentleman in the De/a-
ware State, to hisJr'end in this city.
" I have jll ft been reading the hiltory o!
.lie crimen, enormities, and absurdities ol
human nature, from the end of the 9th cen.
tury, down to the present time—Such a pic
ture mull disgust every thoughtful person,
with the (pecies he belongs to, unlets indeed
he reflect that the aggregate of human worth
was ever to be found in the private walks ol
doineitic retirement. But for many centu
ries 1 fear, little of this worth was to be seer
even there The small frock of curreui
knowledge feeins only calculated to oppreP
with more plaulibility the ignorant multitude,
who without the honor or fortitude of il>er<
savages; without any interest i« the <joar
rels of their rulers, were fatrificed, withnu'
remorse, t8 the irrational ant) barbarous poll
cy of tnonfters called Popes, Kings, and Em
perors. At length, however, a dawn of hop*
feeined breaking in upon the world, that th«
condition of poor human nature was altering
for the better. The progress made in science
id the knowledge of civil liberty and genuini
religion, was cheering every liberal and goo<
heart, with the idea, that the ferocity of met
was foftening into humanity, and the perio<
nearly at hand, when the deftru&ion of thi
human fpecie< would be confined entirely ti
the savages of the forefr But alas ! How i
weep again, over the woeful tragedies no*
acting, on a theatre, which is continuallj
boafrmg its preeraiuence in politics and ir
philolophy ! Refinements in cruelty, barbari
ty and profligacy, instead of yielding to the
light of reason, appear to keep pace with its
progress, and the fame enthusiasm which for
ages lias desolated the earth, is as active as
ever in the work of death and ruin, though
367
cloathed in the plausible garments of Freedom <
and finality. In reading the dii'courfes of the i
present rulers of France, one won id be ted to
imagine that the human faculties had been
suddenly promoted to a degree of energy un
known to ancient times'; that man lu'id oflu
med a superior rank in the o.der of intellec
tual beings, wJ.ilft at the fame time we be
hold all the low and boisterous passions. mark
ing every ft age of their conduit, and the apos
tles of liberty and humanity, funk as deep in
blood as the inquilitor or the despot. The
fact, I believe, is, they have determined to
make the experiment upon Bayle's fentinient,
that a nation of Atheifls may be a moral and free
people 9 and all but themselves muft-clearly Ice
that they have failed in the very outset-—
Even a tlem of I fufpedt, will never
anfweritieir piirpofe, and it is really aftoii
iftiing' that 'men of abilities in legislation,
should rank the doctrines of tlie Gospel, among
antient prejudices and abuses. Nothing
would be moreeafy than to demonstrate that
of all tbe fvftems ever held out to mankind,
the tenets of the Gospel are the nioft demo
cratic. It contains exprellions and injunc
tions of equality not to be met with elsewhere.
In vain will either despotism or aristocracy I
look for fan&iorf or shelter under the law of
Christ ; and I will venture to fay, that the
CHrifkian comftitution has provided more ef
fectually for the Rights of Men 9 than any that
can bef frafnetl by the National Convention
of France.
In the tfereli&ion of this divine fyftern, I
think we may discover the source of all their
enormities. In combating ancient prejudi
ce", they have fallen into modern ones equal
i ly groundless and fatal. They have attribu
ted to religion the tyranny of despots, and the
tame fubmilfton of nations—They have con
founded Papal ambitfon and Prieft-craft, with
the do&rinex ps Christianity ; and forgetting
the tipe old maxim that corrupt!o optind fit
ttg&fnve greedily fw allowed ail tll<t
extravagancies of their dogmatizing Uphifts,
who hive wanted either discernment or can
dor, todvflringuirti between the genuine tenets
of religion, and the follies which knavery or
ignorance have grafted upon it, and fan&ified
under-that name.—They have not consider.
Ed, that to discard both together, or to attack
the firft on account of the last, is at least as
far from true wisdom as fupe.ftition itfelf.
lfchriftianity is to be difmifled because evil
men have made it instrumental to abuses, let
us for the fame reason banish reason, philo
sophy and freedom from society. The pic
ture now exhibited by that powerful nation,
is certainly dark and disgusting to ever)* un
prejudiced eye ; and for my part, I can feel
but little grounds fit the exultation that has
been nianifefted at the success of their amis.
It woukl have been time enough for America
to rejoice over the defeat of Francis and Fre-
when the conduit of their conquerors
should be marked with the mild feature of
Philanthropy and Benevolence. At present
the most sanguinary ostracism is their only
law, and as the last and best of their kings
!«*■» victim tn wc rrrrsv trr.ftly
couclude what will be the fate of thousands of
more ignoble fufFerers. A revolution ce
mented by such torrents of blood—much of
which has been unnecefTarily Hied, must af
ford b&t {lender hope for the future happiness
of a nation ; for however certain it is, that
the left of man has ever been to smart under ail
the branches of tyranny and oppreflion ; yet
will not this consideration excuse the afiert
ors of liberty, when they wantonly pursue
the fame desolating plan. In my opinion the
only credit due to these reformers, is, to have
demolilhed the foundation of ancient def
potifra, and to have eradicated-abuses, which
have for ages been the reproach and scourge
of human nature ; but political happiness con
sists not in deftrullion alone : New systems
must be e relied on the fcite of the old ones.
A chasm in coercive laws, would be as dan
gerous as tyranny in a Prince or Minister,
and every artful villain would become a des
pot ; wherefore, unle's a government be a
dopted immediately that may tranquilize that
agitated nation—that may increase their
cbmforts wttilft it secures rheir rights, that
prptell individuals from mobs ar.d de
magogues, more effectually, than former laws
defended them from nobility and courts; un
less it check the spirit of conquest and pro
mote the peace of mankind, by countenanc
ing urefill knowledge and genuine religion, the
only fruit of this revolution will be, to have
vouzed an impetuous people from the lethar
gy of slavery, to the fever of liberty, without
furnifhing remedies for reducing them to that
temperate composure, for want of which, po
litical equality can never subsist.'' Fed. Gaz.
Extrafl oj a Utter from a gentleman in London, dated
Feb. 3, to his friend in this city.
il All is working in Europe for the freedom
of man, the downfall of Antjcbrift, and the
dawn of that day, when all /hall fit under their
vines and fig-trees* and no ty ants make them
afraid. Even war, our fooliih war, will aid
thofeevents,and ere long the spirit ofdelufion
will cease.
4< France is ailing under an unfeen,and an
unacknowledged influence, that influence
which dictated to prophets what they knew not,
! and tbe time of its acconiplifhment was equal
j ly htl frim them. You may, in your peace
ful clime, obierve the signs of the times, and
approach, which may be as instanta
neous as the lightning, which ftarteth from
the eart, and Ihineth unto the weft !
" Your old acquaintance Fayette—alas,
how degraded, how justly fallen. He was in
league with the King, not deceived by him,
and is fu r peltsd of a design unfavorable to the
great objects we all desire to fee realized. He
is confined in the callle of Magdebourg, and
at the mercy of the despot of Pruilia, who, by
tbe way, as one of the villainous confederacy
of p. ir.ces, is taking his share of the kingdom
of Poland—ant this a!<o is in aid of what they
think not. All mil work for good."
f.xtraCl of a letler from a o'tigymi* iji Liverpool,
dated Feb. 9, to kii er>rrtfponde*t in this city.
" Th'rig' at pre'ent look very dark and
gloomy, wish refpeft to political matters in
Europe. The French nation have declared
war with and H ii!r.i;ri. . In France
all at pielen.t feenr: to te little leis than one *
entire fccne of a;-.! 1 , cimi'u/ion.
On the 2ifr cf \>ft month they.put theii late
King to death, by uuMidy off his head.
Our preparations for war aw very vigorous,
and except the Lot d in mercy prevent, til®
approaching lumraei seems likely to be a very
bfopdy one iiirierd ; the Lord prepare us for
all h's holy jvill!—l an l often of late thinking
on those twopaffages of scripture, viz." The
Lord rergfietfc, let the earth rejoice ;" a ß d
" The Lord reigneth, let the people tremble."
I am well fatisfierf that the judge of all the
earth mull and will 'do-tight—though from
the present appearance -of things I cannot help
frequently exprefimg rnyielf in those words of
the apostle*—'" How unfearchabk are hit judg
ments, and hiv ways pall finding out
" I rejoice much with you m the profpeft
you have of peace with the Indian nations on
your frontiers ; the good Lord bring'it about,
and eftabliih it ! And with you I hope I can
and. do heartily pray ; O that the kingdom of
the Prince of Peace may come, and that the
"knowledge of the glory of his name and lore
may increase, and spread from pole to pole,
and from the river to the ends of the eavth 1"
FROM THE NHW-YORK JOURNAL.
A late publication, /row London x called u 77/£
JOCKEY CLUti," while treating on the intrigues
of the QUEEN of France, introduces the foil quo-
ing natc '• —
u To us who are acquainted with the ac
tual resources of Frartce -and with the spirit
arid unanimity that now prevail through the
v country, the idea o{_ toucjutrirg it ap
pear;? insanity ; but while the momentary
excefles of an outraged and justly exaopera
ted multitude, are at present so maliciously
dwelt on, in order to depreciate the gene
rous universal principle on which the nation
a fly let us refer our readers to the savage
horrors now daily exercising on the frontiers,
without a lhadow of interest or provocation,
by the cfifciplined armies of Pruftia and Au
fti ia, under tl?e coriimand of that humane, ex
perienced, and philosophic general, the Duke
of Brunfwick, the val'rant brother of our Roy
al George, and in order to give Tome idea of
the tendemefs and companion of the French
aristocracy, we (hall relate the follow ing an
ecdote, the veracity of which is generally ac
knowledged throughout Pari??, and we our
felve* heard it triumphantly recorded by a
young French aristocrat, who occasionally
aflifted ot the ceremony.
For a considerable time before the tenth of
August, the royalists alTumed a very imperi
ous ton^itheir numbers were formidable, and
they announced, without reserve, their hopes,
which with them amounted to a certainty of
a couotter-revolution, and their paflimcs
were adapted to the sanguine expfeftations
they indulged.
" There has been a machine lately invent
ed in France, for the execution of < riminals,
called a Guiilotin, after the name of its in
ventor, and It is contrived, that on dropping,
instantaneously to fever the head from the
body. In the ariftoeratic families, and chief
ly among those connected with the Queen, it
was the cufl-om every day, as soon as dinner
was fjnifhed, to have one of these Guillotine
in miniature, brought in with the desert.
Around it were fixed figures representing
some of the piincipal and moll obnoxious pa
triots, Messrs. d'Orleans, Condorcet; Briffot,
&c. Abont the neck of each, was a ImaU
phial containing a ctimfon coloured liquid
perfume. A magistrate (one of the party)
was appointed to try the criminals, and im
mediately on sentence being pronounced, by
an ingenious mechanical pi'ocefs, down drop
ped the Guiilotin, the head was 2t once chop
ped off, and the blood flowed, when the com
pany in general, and particularly the ladies,
eagerly and joyfully fteepeck their handker
chiefs in it, and applying Vt to their noses, in
extacy exclaimed, 4< qu'il eft doux, le
fang des patriotes Ah ! how sweet is this
patriot blood!" for amongst them, as with
our fine gentry in London, the word patriot
is an epithet of mockery and dcrifion.
" From the above well known fact, we
leave our readers to conclude, what the re
sult would have been, if victory had inclined
to their fide. Eleven thoufar.d victims were
already firedeftined to the block, and it can-
not be supposed there would have been much
pains bestowed on th * formation of tribunals
for trial."
ARRIVED a/ the PORTo/PHILADELPHIA.
Barque Sally, Turner, Mo'ifego-Bay
Brig Amiable Sophia, Guifnel, Marseilles
Betsey, Peddy, Faval
Brandyivine Miller, Knox, Lisbon
Active, Garinan, Qharleftou
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Crr.ts, 18/*
j per Cmtj, w/i
Deterred, |0/8
bull Bank U.-6. 11 per cent.pfctn
Tcr Morrow -will he pubhjhed,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Stone Jbufe, A'o. 41, South Scioml-Strect,
CASE,
Decided in the Supreme Court of the UmrrD
States, in which is difculfcd the pueftion,
WHETHER A STATE IS LIABLE TO BE
SUED BY A PRIVATE CITIZEN OF
ANOTHER STATE!
Pries Half a Dollar y——— ——— Ms. Cts.Dlls. Or.
PRICE CURRENT Kn.fc.pr.box ,o %
rm ftUANTiT*.—Douah! 100 Cents each. Ditto balkets, 12 bottles 6
. Spermaceti pr. gall. 48
PHILADELPHIA, Af*il 17. Tr am r 6 21 »7
— Whale 25 33
A Ms. Clj. DU>. Cts. Porter pr cask) 5 33
NCHORS pi.lb. 7 10 I.andon, pr.doz. 1 60
Alluin, pr.cwt. 433 Amcncan ditto bot .tad. 3 4 *16° I
Ditto, Rocb pr. lb. 11 Pitch, pr. bbl. 173 2
Alhes,pot, perton, 120 Pork, Burlington, per barrel, 10 39
, "Pearl, "37 l 4° ? Lower county is
Arrack pr. gall. >33 Ilb Carolina p
Brandy, common, 80 5 Peas, Albany pr. bulhel is
Coniac 9° 100 Pepper, pr. lb. 38
Braziletto, pr. ton. 3 2 34 Pi mento lg
Bricks, pr. M. 4 7 „ ~ ,
Bread, Ibip. pr. cwt. 2 27 Ra.fins, best, pr. keg 633
Ditto, pilot , 36? °! 0 P r J" 253
Ditto, fro,ll water, per keg 36 40 Ditto p,.box 233
Beer, American, in bottles, lc * pr.cwt. 3
pr.doz. bottles included, , ,40 Rof.n pr. banel
Ditto pr. barrel, 4 Rum <.Jamaica, pr. gallon 112
Boards Cedar pr. M feet, 20 -£""§ ua J 1
New England 12 '4 Windward 86
Q ak ,4 16 isarbadocs 87
Merchantable pine 20 24 Country, N.E. 62
Sap, do. 12 *3 Salt petre, pr. cwt. M-33
■ Mahogany, per foot 10 SafTafras pr. ton 6 8
The above are the (hallop prices, Shot ditto 140 141
for the yard price, add l dol- Steel, German pr.lb. 9
lar 33 cents per 1000. pr. cwt. 10
Brimstone in rolls, pr.cwt. 2 67 American pr. ton 21 3 33
Beef, Boston, per barrel Crowley's pr. faggot 10 67
Country ditto 9 10 nake root P r * lb '
Fresh, per cwt. 333 467 Soa P> Brown per lb. 6
Butter pr.lb. *6 White 0
-in kegs 12 Castile
Candles, Sperm, pr.lb, 47 Starch 7
.. Wax 53 Snuff pr. doz. bot. 4 5 oc
Myrtle Wax 13 Spermaceti, refined, pr.lb. 48
Mould, tallow 12 Sailcloth, Englifh,No.i,pr. yard, 28
• Dipped 11 Boston, No. I. ditto 30
Cheese, F.nglifli, pr. lb. >9 r No. 11. 29
Country 8 13 Sugar Lump, pr.lb 24
Chocolate >3 20 Loaf, Angle refined 24
Cinnamon 2 40 2 67 Ditto, double do. 33
Cloves 1 32 Havannah, white 17 18
Cocoa pr.cwt. *7 Ditto, brown, 11 12
Coffee pr.lb. 15 1 * Muscovado, pr. cwt. 13 15
Coal pr. buihel 24 33 SpiritsTurpcntine pr. gallon 37
Copperas pr. cwt. * 6 7 Salt, Allum pr. buftiel 33
Cordage, American, per cwt. 767 8 Liverpool 33
Cotton pr.lb. 27 3? Cadiz 25
Cuirants 12 Lisbon 27
Duck Russia, pr. piece 12 >3 Shipbuild. W. O. frames p.ton, t 5
ZT-*?.™ , „ 9 67 Ditto Live Oak, .867
Dutch fail duck, 18 20 Dit(o rcd ccdari p£r foot g3 '
Feathers pr. lb. 4® Shingles, 18 inch, per M. 333 367
Flax ditto 11 12 Ditto 2 feet, 533 » 6
Flaxfecd pr. bufti. 9& o Ditto 3 feet, dressed, 13 15
Flour, Superfine pr. barrel 5 75 Staves, Pipe pr. 1000 32
Common, 5 5° White Oak hogftiead, 20 33
Bur middlings, bell 4 47 Red Oak do. 19 50
Meal, Indian 3 1 3 Leogan 21 33
ditto Rye, . 3 *3 Barrel "16
Ship-ftuff pr. cwt. 1 4° Heading 25 33
Fustic pr. ton, 20 Skins, Otter, best pr. piece 467
Gin, Holland, pr. cafe, 4 66 Minks 20 40
Do. pr. gall. 80 90 ' Fox, grey 40 80
Clue, pr. cwt. 20 21 33 Ditto rod 120
Ginger, white race, per lb. 7 Martins 54 »
Ditto, common 7 J"* 1 " 5 33 *1
Ditto, ground pr.lb. 10 Bears 3
Ginseng, 20 24 Racoons £7 6°
Gunpowder,cannon, pr. q.calk, 373 4 Musk-rats it
Ditto, fine glazed 4 ® ravCT ' P'" lb " 67 133
Grain, Wheat pr. bulb 17 127 Deer, in hair 20 30
Rye 60 Tar,N. Jersey, 24 gal. p. l>bl, 1
Oats 35 Carolina, 32 gall. 2
—Indian corn 60 Turpentine pr. bbl. 2 33
Barley 1 13 Tobacco, J. River, best loolb. 4 33
' Best (helled pr. lb. 7 — inferior 3 33
———Buckwheat, per bufti. 40 old 4 67
Hemp, imported, pr. ton, 120 14667 Rappahannock 333
American, pr. lb. 4 5 Coloured Maryland, 533 8
Herrings, pr.bbl. 3 • r 240
Hides, raw pr.lb. 9 » £°n g 1 2 4 °
Hops ?7 Eaftern-lbore 2 2 23
Hoglhead hoops, pr. M. i 5 Caroline w 27 3
Indigo, French per lb. 120 153 Tea, Hyson pr.lb. 93 128
Carolina t i2O .-Hyson Ikin, co 6c
Irons, fad pr. ton, 133 33 Souchong, 50 93
Iron, Callings pr. cwt. 3 4 —-Congo, 4, s c
■ Bar pr.ton, 84 Bohea, 33 36
P'g 2 4 Tallow, refined, per lb. 9
Sheet 173 33 Tin pr. box, j 3 33 1367
—Natl rods 106 67
junk, pr.cwt. 4 • 5 pr lb. 47 53
Lard, hogs pr. lb. 9 10 Verm.ll.on, do. 133 ,67
Lead, in pigs pr. cwt. 633 567 pcrgallon 33 37
in bars 7 Wax, Bees pr.lb. 25 27
white 10 10 67 Whale-bone, long pr.lb. »3 30
■ ; red , 64° 667 Wine, Madeira,pr. pipe, 176 226
Leather,foal, pr.lb. 17 20 Li(bon , so 12g
Lignum vitae pr.ton, 560 6 Teneriffe, pr. gallon 63
Logwood t 30 F j
Mace pr.lb. 9 ■ ■ -Port pr. pipe liq ov
Mackarel, best pr. bbl. 8 __ Ditto .n bottles, pr.doz. 4
f.cond quality 6 4 claret . 6
Madder, best pr. lb. t6 20 Sherry pr.gall. 00 120
Marble, wrought, pr. foot, ; 33 2 67 Malaga 77 80
Ma ft f pars ditto 33
MolafTes pr.gall. 44 47 ■
———•flourfVn bottles, pr.doz. ,20 COURSE OF EXCHANGE.
Nails, Bd. tod. 1 id. and nod. pr.lb. 10 ° n London . al 3° da ys. P" L - 100 43°
Nutmegs pr. lb. 7 8 at 6o days 4«%
, at 90 days 424
Oil, Linfeec, pr. gall. 66 Amsterdam, 60 days, pr. guilder, 37
° llve 87 90 days, or
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, New-York.
THESubfcriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS on COMMISSION, begs leave 10 of
fer his services to his friends and others, in the
line ofa Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor him with their business, may depend
upon having it tranfa£led with the utmost fide-
Jity and difpatth.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United States, will be ftriftly
attended to. -
(t.f.) LEONARD BjLEECKER.
TO BE SOLD,
A noted covering Horse,
OF THE HUNTING BREED.
HE was imported from England in Novem
ber, feventet-n hundred and eighty-fix, and
is now ten years old ; he is a bright bay, with a
blaze,fifteen handsone inch high, is well form'd,
has a great deal of bone and strength, afid his
aflion equal to any horse. H s colts are well
approved of in the different paits of the State
where he haxftood, of which any.person inclinecj
to purrhafe can inlorm thcmfcivcs. Enquire
of the Printer.
February rB, 1793,
JUST PUBLISHED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
BookfcUcry at the Stone-House, in Second fireet t
PhiLadelphiA,
VOLUME VIII, or
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
or, A DICTIONARY OF ARTS, SCIENCES,
AND MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
On a Plan entirely new
BY WHICH
Thi Different SCIENCES and ARTS
arc digeftcd into the Form of Diftinft,
TREATISES or SYSTEMS :
THIS VOLUME CONTAINS
AN Account of the Cape of Good Hope,
Grafting, Univcrfal Grammar, Grades,
Greece, Greenland, Guam, Guinea, Gunnery,
Happinrfs, Harmony, Heat, Hepatic-Air, He
raldry, Hindoilan, Hippotamus, History, New-
Holland, Horse, Horsemanship, Hottentot*,
Hunting, Husbandry, Hydrometer, with a great
variety of Biographical and Miscellaneous Arti
cles. Embellished with fixtcen Copperplates.
CONDITIONS.
I. The work is printing on a fuperfine paper,
and new types, (cast for the purpose) which
will be occafienally renewed before they com*
tra£fc a worn appearance.
11. The work is furnifhed in boards, in volumes
or half-volumes, a* fublcribers chufe; the price
of the whole volumes, five'dollars each, of the
half-volumes two dollars and two-thirds of a
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on sub
scribing, the volumes or half-volumes finifhed
to be paid "for when delivered, the price of one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each succeeding volume to be paid on deliver
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
work will be delivered unless paid for.
111. In the courfc of the publication will be de
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia : which by
far exceed in number those given in dny other
fcientific dictionary. At the close of the pub
lication will be delivered an elegant frontif
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for the different volumes,
It isexpe&ed the work will be comprised in
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
(J3 5 * As fcvcral gentlemen who have honored this
undertaking icith early fubfcrif<tions y have only re
ceived a [mall part of the work, they are earncjlly
rcquefled to complete their Jets, as Jar as publijhed y
immediately, while the publisher flill has it in his
power tofupply them with the parts which have not
been furnifhed. As the fubjeription will very pojfi
bly be clofcd by the firfi of July next, the puilijhcr
cannot undertake to complete jits after that period ;
and'thoje who wish to became pojfejfors of this truly
valuable and important work, wilt pleaje apply before
the expiration oj that time, that they may not be dis
appointed.
The very heavy expence necejfarity incurred in car
rying on this work, makes it tndifpenfably reifitifiti
for the pubhfher to adhere more Jtrialy than he has
dorft to the original condition, of delivering the vo
lumes only on being paid for therh.
April 6, 17Q3.
War De
January 28, 179.3.
INFORMATION is heteby given to all the
military Invalids of the United States, that
the sums to which they are entitled for fix
monihs of their annual pension, from the 4th day
of September 1792, and which will become due
on the sth day of March 1793, will be paid on
the said day by the Commiflionera of the Loans
within the dates refpedlively, under the usual
regulations, viz.
Every application for payment must be ac
companied by the following vouchers:
lft. The certificate given by the Hate, fpecify
ing that the person pofTefling the lame is io fait
an Invalid, and ascertaining the sum to which,
as such, he is annually intitled.
2d. An affidavit agreeably to the following
form :
A. B. came before me, one of the Justices
of the county of in the state of and
made oath that he is the fame A. B. to whom
the original certificate in his polTeHion was giv
en, of which the following is a copy (the cer
tificate given by the state to be recited) That
he served (regiment, corps or veflel) at the
time he was disabled, and that he now resides
in the and coomy of and has rcfided
there for the last years, previous to which
he resided in
In cafe an Invalid (hould apply for payment
by an attorney, the said attorney, betides the
certificate and oath before recited, must produce
a special letter of attorney agreeable to the fol
lowing form :
I, A. B. of county of state of
do hereby constitute and appoint C. D. of
my lawful attorney,«to receive in my behalf of
my pension for fix months, as an Invalid
of the United States, from the 4th day of Sep
tember 1792, and ending the 4th day of March
1 793-.
Signed and Sealed
in the Presence of
Acknowledged before me,
Applications of executors and administrators
must be accompanied with legal evidence of
their refpe&ive offices, and also of the time the
Invalid died, whose pension they may claim.
By Command of the PreGdent
of the United States,
H. KNOX, Secretary at War.
ADVERTISEMENT.
WHEREAS a BRIDGE is 10 be built over
Raritan River, at the city of New-Brunf
wick, in the ftate'of New-Jersey—to accompli (b
which, will require the service of many carpen
ters and masons of experience ; Notice is there
fore hereby given, that any perton or persons in
clining to undertake the whole, or anv part there
of, by applying to the fubferibers, on or before
the hifl day o.t Mav next, may have an opportu
nity oi contra&uig for the farm-.
JOHN BAYARD,
JACOB HAROENBURGH,
JOHN DENNIS, Sen.
Srvnfivick, March 24M. , c p^ w
By THOMAS JOHNSON, DAVin
STUART,Bt DANIEL CASgOLL
Ef quires, '
Com MI ss 10 Nt, , appointed by Gotcrnn-tnt .0
prepare the Public 80,1 d,.,*,, Ac. w„ hlll £
Ci v of Aafningtan, for the reception of Con
grefs, and for iheir permanent retid-nce iher
inc year 1800— "
50,000 Tickets >t 7 dolbrs arr 350,000 dollin
LIST OF PRI7IiK vu '
1 Superb Mote), with
our houses, 4cc.&c.iocoft C
1 CafW Pr
1 ditto
2 ditto
jo ditto
20 ditto
too ditto
200 ditto
400 ditto
1,000 ditto
15,000 ditto
16,737 Prize*
39,263 Blanks •
50,000
By this scheme at leajl the amount of the ti c |t.
cts will return to the fortunate adventurers, and
yet the federal City will gain its object thereby
in a magnificent buildingdefigned both for pub
lie and private convenience.
Although some expence mull occelTarily at.
tend the conducing of the lottery, (which ex
pence will be taken from the principal prize) the
Coinmiffioners having agreed to present in' re
turn a fufficjent quantity of excellent free-Hone,
togethai with th« best «<lapted foisfortfie hmei
and for Ihe out-hoafes, the value of the lotr-ry
entire may be fairly rated at fom,thing more thin
far: In this important inftatice it will be found,
on examination, to exceed all the lotteries thii
have ever been offered to the Public in this or
perhaps in any other country. The keys of the
Hotel, when compleat, will he delivered to the
fortunate polTcllor of the ticket drawn aagainft
its number.—Ail the other prizes will he paid,
uiith<fut deduflion, in one month after the deeming, by
the City Treasurer it Walhingtori, or at luch
Bank or Banks as may be hereafter announced,
for the conveniency of the fortunate adventurers!
The drawing will commence on Mi»nd<iv the
9th of Septembei next, at the City ofWaftnng-
Tickets may be had of Col. H'm. JMclms, City
Treasurer of Washington ; Thayer £# Bfrlitt, of
Charleston, Sooth-Carolina ; Gideon Denijen t Sa
vannah; MeflTrs. James Weft £? Co. Baltimore;
Nfc Peter Gi/man, Boftonj and at such other
places - hereafter publilhed.
N. B. ONE TONUkrnicujiit w v\i
be given for the bed Plan ol an elegaal and coiu
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and cold
Baths, Stables, and other out hmifes, if prefentti
on or before the toth «f April next-, and a pre
ference will be givi-n to the Artilt for a Con
tra£l, provided he be duly qualified to
compleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be rrefted, wilt
be a corner lot of about go by 200 feet, with a
back avenue to the stables, &c. Sections and
eClimates of the expense will be expend
with the elevations, &c. compleat ; and 50,000
dollars mu(l be regarded by the Architect as the
utmoll limit in the expense intended lor this
purpose. S. BLODOtET,
Agent for the affairs of the City.
March 6, 1793.
cpim
artment,
THE public are hereby informed, that the
Post-Road from Philadelphia to Reading,
is continued to Sunbury and Northumberland;
thence up the Weft Branch of the Sufquehannah
as far as Licoming; thcnce to the Painted Post
(iq New-York ilaft, near the forks of the Tioga)
thence to Bath (a town laid out on theCoho&oa
Branch of the Tioga) thence to Witliamlbu:
aC the forks of Genci'ee River.
Letters for this new route will be sent from
the Philadelphia Poft-Office every Wednesday
morning, at eight o'clock, with the mfcil lor
Reading.
A weekly mail will alio be carried from
Bethlehem to Wilfkelbarre., ill the county of
Luzerne.
District of Pennsylvania, to wit.
' —n T> E IT REMEMBERED, That on
[Seal. ) -D the thirteenth day of March, in
\ / the seventeenth year of the Indepen
v y dence of the United States of America,
Thomas Dob son, of the said Diftrift, hath de
posited in this Office, the Title of a Book, the
Right whereof he claims as Proprietor, in the
words following, to wit.
44 An Enquiry how Jar the Punijhment of Death
44 is necessary in Pennsylvania. With bote! and
44 IHuJlrations. By William Bradford, Efy.
44 To which is added, an Account of the Gael <wd
4 * Penitentiary House oj Philadelphia, and of tk*
44 interior Management thereof. By Caleb
44 Lowncs, oj Philadelphia.*— Ij we enquire
'* into the Causes of all human Corruptions> uic
44 /hallfind that they proceed from, the Impunity
44 oj Crimes, and not from the Moderation of Pu
-44 nifhments.** Montefq.
In conformity.to the Ast of the Congrcfs of
the United States, intituled, 44 An Ast for the
Encouragement of Learning, bv securing 'he
Copies of Maps, Charts and Books, to the Au
thors and Proprietors of such Copies, duxing the
Times therein mentioned.'*
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk ot the Diftrift of Pennfylvnnia.
(fcT* The above work is fold in Charkfton by
William Price Young Richmond t by Archibald
Currie : Baltimore, bv James Rice : New-York,"
by Thomas Alien : Bofton y by David Wejl.
A LOTTERY
FOR TOE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City.
i ditto
1 ditto
5.000 ire
x,ooo
fiOO
io»
50
' *5
ao
10
Post-Road
TO THE GENESEE COUNTRY.
General PoJl-Q][ice % April 6, 1793.
S°»CQ6
25>°0&
20,000
*5; co*
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,009
10.000
20.0«0
15°,000
Dollars 35>,ock»