-jr*}; ' •
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS KV JOHN h'F. NNO, No. 34, NOBTH FIFTH-STKRE f, IJHII.1 J HII. A Df.Ll'l! Ip.
[No. 97 of Vol. IV.]
LAW OF THE UNION.
SJCOKII
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
At THE SECOND SESSION,
and held at the City of Philadelphia,
in the State of Pennsylvania, on Monday
thi fit'th of November, one thousand
fttfen hundred and ninety-two.
AN ACT for extending the time for
receiving on Loan that part of
the Domeltic Debt of the United
State*, wbieb sisy be Jwbfcribed
prior to tfc« firft day of March,
ooethoufand seven hundred and
nineiy-three.
BE it ena&ed by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of
America in Cong re fs afTeinbled, That the
term for receiving on loan that part of the
domestic debt of the United States, which
shall not have been fubferibed, in pursuance
of the a£t» intituled k4 An a& supplementary
to tho f* making provision for the debt of
the United States," be extended, from and
after the firft day of March, one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-three, until the Jaft
day of June, one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-four inclusively, on the fame terms
and conditions, as are contained in the acl,
intituled 44 An a£t making provision for the
debt of the United States : Provided, That
the books for receiving the laid fubferiptions
fhaU beopenetf only at the Treafiiry of the
„-*rmted States.
And be it further ena&ed, That such of
the creditors of the United States, as have
f:ibfcrib&d, frrrd lhaU ii<jC ftmfciibc la thrr
said loan, fh'all nevertheless receive, during
the year o:»e thousand /even hundred and nine
ty three, a rate per centum on the amount
of such of their demands, as shall have been
regiftened, conformable to the dire&ions con
tained in the said ast, on or before the last da>
of June, one thousand seven hundred am
ninety-four, equal to the interest, which wouli
be payable to XhsJU*. fubfcribiijg creditor
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the tioufeoj Kept eft htUi ives
JOHN LANGDON, Pusi dent pro
tempore, oj the Senat
Approved march 2, 1793-
glo. Washington,
President oj the United States.
AN ACT fHpplememary to the aift,
entitled, " An adl to provide more
effectually for the colk<Sion> of
the Duties impoled by law on
Goods, Wares and Merchandize
imported into the United States,
and on the tonnage of Ships or
Vessels."
BE it ena&ed by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of
America in Congress afTembled, That there
shall be in the State of Georgia, a diihift, to
be called the diltrict of Hardwick, to com
prehend all the waters, shores, bays, harbors,
creeks and rivers, between the south point of
Oflfabow island and the south point of Warsaw
Island ; £h*t in the said diftridl the town of
Hardwick shall be the only port of entry, and
a colle&or for said diftrjft fha.ll be appointed
t > reside at Hardwick, and the said colle&or
ItxaTl be entitled to receive the like fees, and
the fame yearly allowance which is paid to
the collector of the diilrift of St. Marv's, in
the said State.
And be it further enacted, That so much
of Lake Cliauipiain, with the (hores, bays and
rivers connected therewith as lieth within
tie State of New-York, (hall be one entire
diftrift, to be called the diftrift of Champlain ;
and the Prcndeiit of the United States, be,
and hereby W authoiinedto appointfucli place
within the said diftrkt to be the port of en
fry and delivery within the fame as be may
dtem exjJSdi^nt; and a collector for the said
oiltritt flia!! for appointed to lefide at such
place within fa~d diftridt as the President of
t.ie United States shall diretf, who rtiall beat,
lowed tne fume fees as are allowed the collec
tor in t'ue diftrift of Vermont: Provided ne
v'"rtJ,cThat the exception contained in
the sixty-ninth feiftion of the ast abovenien
ttoned, relative to the dlftrirt of Louifvil'e,
. be, and hereby is extended to the diftriit
ot Champlain.
And be it further enacted, That from and
alter the laftday of June Dext, the collcftors
10 tuc diftriA oi \ ermont and Champlain, in
r -—T®^«7
a*WilJjlhe i*jen apM- e!««inPlJiiu;
H»tt* accrue M 'ui the <Suß«ttiori of.-i^e l ,
dutiei ol inipofl and tonnage by the provi- '
Aons already made, lhall ieverallyhave and be
entitled to receive the yearly film of qne hun
ted dollars each.
And be it further eila&ed, That from, and
after the last day of June next, the allowance
of one half per centum to the collectors of the
<fiftri(sts» of Pennsylvania and of the city of
NewYdrk, and the allowance of one per
centum to the colletfors of thfe diftr'ffts of
Boston and CharleftOwn, and cf Baltimore,
on the amount of all the monies by them ref
pe<ftively received, on amount of the duties
of impnft and tonnage lhall cease, arid inftezxl
thereof, from and after the said last day of
June next, the colle&drs of the diftri<?ts of
Pennsylvania, and of the city of New-York
lhall be entitled to three eighths of one per
centum, and the collectors of the,districts of
Boston and Charleftown, and of Baltimore,
shall be entitled to three fourths of one per
centum, on all fach monies by them respec
tively Teceited.
And fee it further ena&ed, That from and
after the fir® daybf January next no officer
of the customs, or other person employed un
der the authority of the United States, in the
colle&ipn of the duties imposed by law on
goods, wares and merchandize imported into
the United States, and on the tonnag?of ftiips
or velTe'.s, shall own, in whole or in part, any
(hip or velfel, or a<£l as agent, attorney or
consignee for the owner or owners of any (hip
or veflel, or of any cargo or lading on board
the fame : Nor shall any officer of the cus
toms, or other person employed in the col
leftidn df the duties as aforefaid, impdrr, or
be concerned dirc<stly or indirectly in the im
portation of any goods, wares or meichan
dize into the United States, on penalty that
every person so offending and being thereof
convicted, fliall forfeit the sum of five hun
dred dollars.
And be it further ena<sted, That so much
of the twelfth fe&ion of an'att,entituled, 44 An
a«ft making alterations in the treafu; V and
war departments," as reftrifted all officers
of the United States employed in the collec
tion of the duties i nipofed by law on jM>ods,
wares and merchandize imported into the
United States, and on the tonnage of lhips or
veiTeh, from ouyiifg or difpoftng of the funds
or debts of the United States* or of any ft ate,
or of any pubJi'c property of either, lie and
the fame is hereby repealed ; so far as the
fame prohibits them from disposing of their
interest in the funds or debts of the United
States, or of ai\y o'f the said States.
And be it further ena&ed, That the Pre
sident of the United States play, if he shall
jucflge it conducive to the public interest, in
crease the complement of mariners to the ie
veral revenue cutters, so that the number do
not exceed seven mariners to each cutter-;
and that from, and after the firft day of April
next, there be allowed, in lieu of the com
pensations now established, to the maiter of
each revenufc cutter, forty dollars per month,
and the subsistence of a captain in the army
of the United States ; to a firft mate, twen
ty fix dollars per month ; to a second mate,
twenty dollars per month ; to a. third mate,
eighteen dollars per month ; to every mate,
the subsistence of a lieutenant of the said ar
my ; and to each mariner, not exceeding ten
dollars per month, to be paid by the collec
tors of the revenue, who ihall be designated
for that purpole : And that the Secretary of
the Treasury be, and he is hereby author'ifed
to contract for the supply of rations for the
officers and men of the said cutters, on such
terms, asfhall, from time to time, appear
reaionable.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the Houje oj Representative j.
JOHN LANGDON, Prejident bro
tempore of the jfna4t.
APPROVED MARCH 2, 1793'
G£o. WASHINGTON,
President of the United States.
AN ACT for the relief of Simeon
Thayer.
BE it enacted by the Senate and House of
Representatives of the United States of
America, in Congress aflembled, That Si
meon Thayer, late a major in the ar.my of
the United States who was disabled at the
battle of Monmouth, be placed 011 the pension
lift of the United States, and that he be al
lowed the half pay of a major, from the firft
day of January one thousand seven hundred
and eighty-one : provided he return into the
treafury-office, a sum equivalent to the whole
of his commutation ofhali pay.
JONATHAN TRUiMBULL, Speaker
of the Hotfe of Representatives.
JOHN LANGDON, President prt
temfore of the Senate.
Arr&ovxD, ma»ch e, 1793.
ST ■ G&st t/escdi.
Saturday, May 4. 1795.
GEO. WASHINGTON,
Prejidcnt of the United Staid.
385
A**TDaEMK*T OF TKt:
AW CONSTITUTION of FRANa.
[cONC LUUED.]
Admi/iifl rativt Bodies.
THEftE (hall be in each department, an ad
niiniitrative council 6f iß,niQmbers 3 with
fubordintte ageiicies. The former ate to ci )n *
trt>uf the revenue, and to cmrefpond with the
executivfc governiflgnt. The tpferio.r adfnii
-iiiftfations Sfe imt Ss yet organized.
Th« admih'iftratofs are to be? elected in the",
primary ali'emblies, and the Halt' renewed
• .every two years.
, , Executive Council.
, I. Theexecufivp council of the- Republic
shall be computed of fevep general agents or
mitiiffersj and a secretary.
11. There, lhall'fc, ....
I. A Bifnifter.'6f
.2. A minfftertif if at.
3- A miniftef for foreign affairs.
4- .'A miniver of public contributions,
j. A pitnifter of. the marine.
6. A miniiier of agricul tu re, cofiinicre awd
' ~.
?■ At nfinirter of works, aids, public eftab
lilhments, and aits.
111. Each of the ministers foall alternately
pre fide in the executive council, and the pre
sident /hall be changed every fifteen days.—
To this council it belongs to execute all the
laws and all the decrees paifed by the legifta
tive bodv.
The ministers are to be chosen in the pri
mary aflemhlies, and in the manner before
prescribed. Eight firppleans or substitutes are
to be chosen at the faine time.
The members of the council to be chosen
for two years. The half fliall be renewed
eve r y year; but they may be re-elected.
The executive council are accountable to,
and cannot be members of the leg'flative bo
dy. They have no controul over the Nati
onal treasury, which is to be di retted by three
commifliohers appointed for that purpose, and
eletted in the fame manner. Two hundred
members are to be chosen in the legislative
body, of whom a jury of seven is to audit
each account.
l.sgiflat'pu: Body.
The legislative body is to conlift of one
chamber, and to be renewed annua 1 ly, by elec
tions in the manner before mentioned.
The number of deputies to be sent from
eafch department is tio be newly 6xed every
ten years, according to the increase or de
crease of" the population.
Thfe members of the legiflatiye body (hall
not at any lime be prosecuted, impeached, -or
tried for any thing which they may have laid
or written in the f xercife of their hinmon's.
No pfopofition shall pass into a law, unless
it befit'ft proposed in the aflembly, then re
ferred to a committee of thirteen, and after
the interval of a fortnight, if the time (hould
permit, re-debated in the aflembly.
CenjforJhip of the People.
Under this head it is proposed, that any
citizen shall have the right of convoking the
primary aflembly where he resides, to consider
of the enadlment of a new, or the repeal of
an existing law. If they agree to the prooo
(Ttlirn, they are to address the people of oHier
alTpmblies, and the wifli of the department
thus collected, is to be transmitted to and
decided upon by the member? of the legislative
body.
The citizens flia'l likewise have the right
to demand an inquiry into the conduit of
public functionaries, in cafe of* ol power
and violation of the law,
A Contention
A convention is to be fummnned whenever
any change is made in the legislative body.
In the 20tb year after the passing of tlie con
stitutional code, a convention lhall be called
to revile and inlprovi.
The convention cannot hold its fittings
within S3 leagues at the legiflatit e body. It
(hall be formed of 2 members from each de
partment.
Adminiflration of Jufiict.
In the civil as well as the criminal code,
the trial by Jury is to be established. The
jurors as well a 5 judges are to be elected.—
The former to be taken one from every hun
dred citizens. The jury to coriflft of a di
rector, a reporter, a national con.miflioner,
and a number of juryman to be fpecified.
The punilhment of death is aboliflied for
all private offences.
There are to be two juries, wliofe functions
correspond with those of the grand and petty
juries in the Englifli constitution.
Judicial censors are to be appointed to tra
vel at fixed periods, and to try all questions
of appeal.
A national jury, consisting of J jurors from
each department, is to try all queltious of
high treason.
The arrest and detention of au individual
are qualified by & number of minute regula
tions, highly favorable to personal liberty.
The liberty of tl.e p.efi is declared to be
indefinite.
$0
[Whole No. 4 j 9."!
13can <m *r.cs£ni~
rrally, on arcotuvt 1 of writing; p'r'oied or rfvih
lifh d, except -hive been Vec'^Mized
and declared by a jury. iiK. \9rierhet theie
n any criminality in the wrirmg denounced
Vllv, wlietiicr llie peiion prosecuted i;, jruilt
if it.
Public f-b
uMu . jfc'e.
The forces of rh'c RVptybMc- are placed jin
llr the cont'ou} rif. the executive council —
•The public fatr-e is declared to be effentrally
obedient, as no armed body can deliberate-
The commanders in chief are to have an
nual and levocabie commissions from the exe
cutive council.
The commanders of the national guards
lhall be elected annually by the citizens in
each diftri<s>.
Public Contributions,
The public contributions ought never to
exceed the exigencies of the state.
There cannot be established any contribu
tion, Which by its narure, or by its mode of*
exafrron, be inju ious to*the free dispo
sal of property, to the prog eT. of
ami of comiuerce, to the circulation os-capi
tals, or might produce tie violation «fthe
rights recognized and declared b> the con&i
tut on.
The amount shall be fixed each year by the
le<iirtative*body,and cannot exceed that term.
They are to !>e published annually.
Relation to Foreign Powers.
The French will only take up arm l ? for the
fake of their liberty. It renounce"; all r.ccef
fion of territory, mile's by the wifli, freely
expreflejf, of its inhabitants.
The declaration of \\ ar fnalT be made f>y
the leg'flative body ; treaties of peace, com
merce and alliance, fliall be made by the exe
cutive council, and ratified by the legislative
body, etc.
Presented by the members forming the
committe of confiitution.
Barrire, Sriffet, Cohdurctt,
Dantdn. Genfomi', Petioti,
Si:ycs, Thomas Palm,
Vergriidud.
Foreign Intelligence.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION.
February 25.
T ALIEN, in tlie name of the com
mitt'ee of general f'afety, gave
in a report on the troubles which
prevail at pre'fent in the city of Ly
ons. Ihe sentence pronounced a
gainst Louis XVI. and his execution
had, he raid, filled the A'riflucratt of
Lyoiis with horror. Since that pe
riod, the tree of liberty had been
disgraced with insulting rnferipti
011s, and pamphlets had been pubi
lifhed with threats against the, Nati
onal Convention. 111 one of which
were the following words : " Treni
ble. Tyrants ! Remember that the
base murderers of Chailes I. either
all perished on the fcaflrild, or felt
by the hands of real Englifhnier."
He laid also ; the Aristocrats ex,-
prefied great joy when they heard
of the death of Le Pelletier ; and
that they threatened, at the fame
time, to set fire to Mom-Briton, a
city of that department, and to the
houses of two deputies who had vot
ed for the dea h of Louis. After
mentioning other facts, tending tc
fliew the ferment which prevails a;
Lyons, he added, that a counter re
volution was ready to be effeified
there ; that the central club of ast
the popular societies in that city had
been dispersed ; that their records
had been burnt in the public fejoare ;
that fire had been set to the tree of
liberty, which would have been ion.
fumed, had not the Sans Culottes
braved the poinards which threaten
ed them ; that the flatue of liberty
and of J. J. Rofleau had been nailed
to the sacred tree ; and that during
this counter-revolutionary ceremo
ny, the Ariflocrats had formed a
dance around it, in which the ladies
had made a conspicuous figure ; and
that the gates of the arsenal and of
the powder magazine were in the
hands of the revolters. He con
cluded with Hating,that every thing
announced thegreatefl danger ; for
the constituted authorities had written that they were 110 longer able
to do any good, and that they began
to despair.
The convention decreed, that 3
commiUioners from their own num
ber (hotild be fcnt with full powers
to atft as ciriumftances might re
quire, and ordered the executive
power to difpaich an armed force
futficient to rettore tranquility.
Alarming ft ate of h'arts.
He said there existed a great fer
ment among the people, and that
they were assembling in a tumult
ous manner in very large bodies,on
account of i he Icarcity of provisions.
He moved, therefore, and the con
vention decreed, that the municipa
lity of Pari9 fliould be authorized to
pursue such measures as they might
think necessary for reftoi ing order ;
even to cause the drum to beat to
arms if neceflary ; and that they
(hould every day give to the con
vention an account of the (late of
Paris.
February 16,
The affair of Lyons again occupi
ed the attention of the convention,
and several farther particulars, re
fpe<fting the disorders in that city,-
were stated : among others/ that
the counter-revolutionists openly
shouted out Long Vt.ve Louis XV-lf.'—
D n to the Municipality : Jtwti
wit A it. Two battalions, hpwever,
arriving there, a number of the
ring leaders quitted that place.
March 6.
Letter from the commiffiuners sent
to Belgium.
Liege, March 3, ,1793
Citizens our colleagues,
" As you will have laid before
you the letter which we have ad
d'refled to the national convention,
we fliall hot here repeat the con
tents of it. But we mud add, that
every thing is in a tnoft alarming
fltuation ; that the army which re
tired from Aix-la-Chapelle, and the
environs, is almost entirely dilband
ed ; that the enemy will perhaps
to-morrow, or perhaps this evening,
be in Liege—-in Liege, where all
our provisions are colledted, and
which contains inimenfe treasures !
We give this account from the in
formation of General Valence, at
whose house wc now write. He as
sures us, that if Dumourier him (elf
does not arrive, he canndt answer
for the conferences.
" We are endeavoring to rally
the fugitives, and are using oilr ut
most endeavors with the provisional
administration and the citizens,that
the people of Liege may second us,
and supply the wants of'our army.
The dangers resulting from this
want are so much the greater, as
the enemy are very strong in caval
ry, while we have scarcely any at all.
(Signed) Delacroix, Coujfin,
and Merlin de Dottay.".
When this letter was read several
members moved, that Bournonville,
the minister at war, should be called
to the bar.—Bournonville accord
ingly appeared and said ; 1 receiv
ed yesterday from Gen. Valence dis
patches, which simply dated, that
the polls on the Roer had been forc
ed ; that a column of Prussians were
advancing towards Ruremonde.and
that another body of 10,000 were
marching against him. It is aston
ishing that the com'miflioners should
have been so imprudent as to give
fttch details. Were they real, the
generals would certainly have com
municated them to me. I have re>
ceived difpatclies also from Dumou
rier, who gives me only a very flight
account, of that affair. Yesterday
morning I dispatched a courier,with
orders to Valence and Miranda to
unite, and form a body of 40,000
men ; for should the enemy appear
before Liege, it would not be afto
nHhing to hear of its being taken
next day, as it is not fortified. I
hfive besides given orders to Du
mburier to lay siege to Maeftricht
in form, in fliort,. news coming
from fugitives is not entitled to cre
dit*; and it is impossible that the
commissioners could be properly in
formed of the derails of that affair
by men who fled."
Paris, Match 11. We are aflured
that the fitting of last night was ve
ry intfrefting to the committees of
the Convention. More than 80 per
sons prcfent—Oanton and
Genfonnet set out this morning for
Belgium.
The dispatches from Gen.Dumou
rier are of the utmost importance.
A very serious atftion took place be
tween Bruflels snd Louvain, the de
tails of which will probably be laid
before the Convention to morrow.
LEYDEN, March 11.
The following is said to be a cor
rect statement of the forces of the
combined powers,now adting againll
France on the banks of the Rhine,
viz. under the command of Prince
de Saxe Cob»urg and Gen.Clairfa^t r
38,000 infantry,and 12,000 $avalry ;
—Prince Hohenlohe, 35,000 troops *
—Count Colleredo, near Manheiin,
26,000 ;—Gen. Beanlieu, 1 4,000 ;
General Wurmfer, 111 the Brifgjau,
3J,000 ; —befides 30,000 Croats, now
marchjng through Germany to the
fame deitination —making in the
whole, 180*500 troops ; which num
ber the addition of the Prulfian ar
mies, and the army of the Empire,
make above 300,000 tffFetftive men.
It is also said that Cuftine's army is
reduced to the last extremity by
sickness and want.
LIEGE, March 8.
The Auflrians made themselves
mailers of this place on the evening
of the sth. Anarch of t lie great
bridge having been broken down
by the French, the Duke "ftf W3r»l
temberg was not able to make his
way thither sooner.
The Prince de Saxe Cobourg has
demanded from this city 600,000 flo
rins by way of present to his army,
and all the towns which were so im
prudent as to receive the French
will undergo the fame fate. Re
tnonftrances have been made to the
Prince on this fubje<S, but he repli
ed that he could not depart from
his demand.
The Hulans have seized feveraj.
waggons loaded with silver plate,,
and 4J ounces of gold plate, taken
from the cathedral, hare been in
part seized near St. Tron. Th«
olate of the chapter of St. Pete;
vas luckily forgotten.
. j -- . 0 - . . - , . t; .
Last Sunday three French prjeft%
/even emigrants and three citiren*,
were by the patriot*.
VIENNA, March 2.
A arrived here yelterday
at four o'clock in the afternoon,
from Peterlburgh, with the official
account, that the Empress of Russia
had acceded to the coalition of the
powers of Europe, and that a fleet
of ten ships of the line are soon to
quit the port of her majesty, in or
der to join the Spanish squadron,
and to a<s in concert with the Spa
niards against France.
His Imperial Majesty has just ac
knowledged in form Monsieur, the
eldest brother of the late Louis XVI.
as Regent of France.
COLOGNE, March 4.
Yesterday 83 waggons with French wound
ed, and a strong detachment of prisoners,
rived here; which were taken by the Irape
rialifts in the a&ion on the Roer the day be
fore yesterday.
Thisdav 24 waggons with wounded French
men, among whom are feverai officers, enter
ed this place, with some carts full of final!
arms, and 11 pieces of cannon.
It is reported that the French had 6333
men killed and wounded, and loft 45 pieces of
cannon ; the Imperialists had 3JO killed, and
263 wounded.
This evening 23 more waggons of woouded
Frenchmen are come in. We have just re
ceived accounts of a warm action between
the Auftrians under Gen. Beaulieu and the
French, td the advantage of the former, who
killed a vast number of the French, took se
veral pieces of cannon, and drove the enemy
from Stablo and Malmedy.
ROTTERDAM, March 8.
A letter from Utrecht, 7th March, fays—
" I havejuft time to tell you, that I left the
Duke of Brunfwick's head quarters at BFiig
gen, yesterday at noon, and you have in aii
probability heard of the French having eva
cuated Liege, Mazyk, Roermonde, and Fort
St. Michael, and also of their having railed
the siege of Maeftricht."
HAGUE, March 11.
Lift night ai 'ived here, and was put under
confinement, J. H. Bedaulx, Lieutenant Ge
neral, who had the command of Gertruydeu
burg, &c.
- FRANKFORT, March 9.
_ The fortrefs of Konigftsiu l las at length
oeen reduced by the allied armies. The
French garnfon who were obliged to surren
der at difcretioii, were brought hither to-dav.
386-
Tbij eveniitg w> exf»A t'w fi'ft f«ln «f
Imperial litavy artillery, that of the PruJHans
has aireadyneacbed the place of K*
tion. It is said, tha't the expenee of tr»nf-<
porting thii firift train of Aafrrtwr artillery, '
and that of the second, which' is lofcn to-fol
low, will not be lek .400,000 Sarins.
' LONDON, March \l.
The secrecy, the vigor, the dis
patch, with all the other unremit
ting exertions, used by goverpment
since the French have thought pro
per to declare war against us, eor
refpond with their general charac
ter for wisdom and policy—They
have, since that (hort period, silenc
ed and reftri&ed tl>e daring among
ourselves—they have purged the
land of foreign and insidious emis
saries, and put the kingdom in the
bell general state of defcnce. Equal
ly faithful to their allies, they have
sent effevflual succour to their aid,
and.by acling with a central 1 pirlt,
have given wisdom and vigor to the
councils and armies of Europe.
To such spirited exertions,under
God, we may attribute the late fuc
cefles in Holland, and by persever
ance, we may reasonably hope for
a continuance of them. The late
boast of Gen. Dumourier was, that
he would breakfaft in Amsterdam
the 17th of February last—but that
day is past, and no Dumourier is
arrived !
i The taking of Liege by General
Beaulieu is a mod important con
ijueft The magazines of the
French, and all the treasures of
which they had robbed the Nether
lands, were stored in this place.
Letters receive'd from Breda men
tion, that Dumourier found in that
fortrefs 187 pieces of cannon,—
200,000 pounds of 6,0c0
muskets, and a great quantity of
bombs, cannon balls, &c. Dumou
rier immediately set out upon an
important expedition, carrying off
a great part of the military stores.
Maeftricht is defended by 4,000
German troops, chiefly from the
duchy of Brunfwick, and 1,200
French emigrants, of whom the
greater part are officers. The Brul
fels Gazette, which now publishes
only what the French didtate, ad
mits, that the siege of this place
was found much more difficult than
was expetTted, and that the fire of
the garrison proved the fuperin
tendance of some able engineers.
After the battle of Jemappe, in
which very near 12,000 of the French
were slain, Dumourier informed the
Convention, that the day had cost
him three hundred men.
But how did this cunning Gene
ral afterwards reconcile this infor
mation to his conscience ? Thus—
Upon being alked, when at Paris,
by an English officer who was pre
sent at the battle, how he could
have sent word to the convention
that that day had coll him onl) 300
men ? the General replied, that it
was exa&ly so ; for, added he, be
fore the engagement had been over
an hour, 1 hail near 12,000 recruits
sent to my army ; so that in balanc
ing the account of killed and receiv
ed, I found a deficiency only of 500'
men—which, therefore, was the Joss
of the day.
March 19
Mr. Hope, of Amfterdain, who is
now in London, received a letter by
yesterday's ma'il, which he conli
dered of so much importance as to
transmit to Ministers. It slated that
the Erince de Saxe Cobourg came
up with the French armies between
St. Tron and Louvain ; engaged
them, and gained a complete victo
ry, in which the French loss was
eflimated at 12,000 men. Their
armies were totally routed and dis
persed.
In addition to this, rumours more
vague said, that the Auftrians had
afterwards captured Louvain, and
were marching to Bruflels with the
certainty of taking it.
We state these reports without
giving them as facets. The name of
Mr. Hope gave weight to the story,
but it does not appear that the letter
received by him Hates the fatfi other
wise than as a report in Amfterdain.
The accounts from Paris, down to
Thursday Jail, ftatethat Dumourier
had come to take the command of
the Belgic army, but fays nothing
of this defeat.
HOUSE OF COMMONS, M.rtlm. •
The UiavultoT of the Ejtxbr truer .xftrr l,„ r *, >■
""V "" « ' ■" ofibf,
in rrfpeft to tnt var, Jkteib, LyUi ,'J j '
to be proved for, and ,/« » uys and
as johoil :
TH! SUPPLY
The navy—ordinal irs anid extra
ordinaries
Excels, by war
The arms—guards, gamfonsj and
augmentations of all for s,
Excels, independent ot militia,
Hanovciun troops, (feoiilj the Heufc ~~ "
vot< (hem . «
Miiitu and all cosiio^ciiciei
vote for a rmy
Excefj of the whole
The ordnance total
Excef» ...
Mrfceiianeous, for extra unforefcea
articles,
Which was above the estimate of
peace establishment
Deficiency of grants
Deficiency of land and male the
ufuaT sum of
• Additional iflue to the commiflion
ers for theJrcdu&iou of the na
i . . 800i0ao
The total to be provided for to be 11,182,000
wavs and means.
The ways and means to meet this fupplv he
stated as-follows :
Land and malt at the ufnal sum
Surplus in hand on the sth January,
arising from the large produd of
the revenue
To which was to be added the efti.
mate fur plus up to the £th of
April, to which the ways and
means of the year had been cal
culated, which he took at 274,000!.
making a .oufbf . 7#0i009
Of which 435,000!. being the furplui ar.ring
out of the three firft quarters, had been already
voted. 7
Irt taking this future eftimMe of the Mrttt*
nent revenue, after defraying the p«r«fcMM
charges, h# should go on an average of
years, (he total revenue in each of which
excluding land and malt
On the 51 hof Jan. J790
>791
»70»
'793
Total in four years
Which divided by 4. produced the
average of
For which deduct for
charges
For additional future
charges
"i39t«coo '
Making total c!
Which, in round fui
a disposable furp)
ters of upwards o
ADDRESS from the Nation'** jC<*l«iifT.
tiow to the Fizncb Nation.
Ptopofedby and tultptai tyfit'
Jljfcmbly t an the prejatt crijis of iktirj-
iuntton.
is the inevitable lot of rations whi
iave given te themselves kings, that they ne
'er can ihake off their yoke without a It rug
»le with every neighbouring tyrant.
Scarce had you proclaimed your own fover
cignty when the emperor and king of Prussia
took up arms against you, but now that you
have proclaimed your constitution to b'c repub
lican, there is not one despot who has not re*
solved upon your utter ruin. Those who have
not already forced you into open war, are pro
bably temporising, that they may the more
ealily deceive you, and it is but tod true, that'
the proje&ei ftrogglc is between the" enfrsn
chifed France and enslaved Europe.
Be that so, France must eventually triumph
if its will is firm and constant; for nations are
stronger than armies. Those who havo fought'
for independance were ever vuftors. Let Hol
land, Switzerland, and the United States, be
proofs of this afTertion.
Free nations find resources in their utmort
extremities and distress. Rome reduced to she
circumference of the capital, arose from defeat
more formidable than from vi<3ory.
Remember, Franks, your own eiploits,whm
the Pruflians dared to pollute your territory.—
Ever did the enthusiasm of liberty triumph ov
er numbers ; ever did fortune smile on the va
lourous enterprise, and victory on true cot
rage !
Franks,
Heroes of Marathon, Salamis, and Jenimap
pe, we invoke your testimony. Infant repub
lic, such are thy models, fuchare the presages
of thy success. Surely thou waft reserved to
give the universe a display of a scene hithertrt
unknown, hitherto unimaginediu the mindof
man ; for never did such a cause occupy the ft™
of mankind, never was such a cause referred
to the ultimate decision of war. Not the inte
rest or concerns of the day is the theme, poste
rity and ages to come are the fubjefl; not the
liberty of one nation—no, the enfranchifemeot
of human species.
Franks, may the fuhlimity of these ideas
flame thy valour, crufli every tyrant, rathtr
than thyfelf becomc a slave —a slave ! What
{hall then new kings feed on thy gold, on th c
sweat of thy brow, on the profufion of thy
blood ? Shall again unfeeling Parliaments, at
their caprice, dilpofe of thy fortune, of thy
life ?—Shall again a fanatic priesthood decimate
thy industry and thy harvests ? Shall again <■'
faitidious nobility tread thee under the loot c
" r 3-79<<«e»
- 2 .°?P**o
a >S73.os*
»-90Q,c0»
««s **,
939 AOO.,
#*■«*'
•,300.009 »
793,00 i
>»«•Ot»..
tf<M.
3i°iOo»
«, 750,000
14.41 M*
iS,afc&*
13971,000
*40,000
31,6*t no*
ur
Z.i^.C'+h
-Iinsolent contempt? Shall holy equality r .fliaU
licred liberty, the produce of thy unparalleled
exertions, again be ravished from thee ? Shall
that nobk empire, the inheritance of thy an
ce ftort, be difmemberad ? Shall there be for
us no longer the word country, no longer the
name of a Frank >—Shall this generation be
deftiued to this accummulution of infamy i—
Shall it bear ths scorn of all Europe, and the
contempt of poiterity ? No ; v, e will dilappear
from the furface of the earjh, or we will re
main upon it independant Franks ?
Let every true republican arm for his coun
try! let our iron and brass transform themselves
into the thunders of war, lat our forefts become
veilels; let France become one camp, let the
nation become one army ; let the artill quit his
art, Snd the speculator his Ipeciilation. It is
rnoie urgent to acquire liberty than riches ; l;t
lultivatibn'retain but the arms that are neceua
ry for it; we ameliorate our foil, let us
entanchife it; let those veterans who have de
feated their standards, blulh to fee their laurels
fading before the vidories of inexperienced, but
valorous youth. Above all, let the young and
vigorous citizen fly to the defence of the le
public. Itisjuftthat he fho jld be exposed to
eJie oombat, e're the father of a family riik his
more fccred person
And you, tender mothers,' wives replete
with lore and sensibility, infteaa of attracting
and holding back in your thoi'e citizens
who are dear to you, extite them rather to fly
tovi&ory !
It is not in the cauie of a defpqt. that they
are to combat, it is for you, for your children,"
for your homes. Inltead of weeping for-their
departure, repeat, like Spartan women, enthu-.
fiaftic and'martial songs; and let your hands,
e're their retdrn;' weave them cloth for their
bodies,, and crowns for their vidlorisus heads.
And thou, pa'triotifm, and thou, passion of
liberty, and of gl»ry, whrfartthe preservative
eflence of republicans, the iource of heroism
and of virtue, eliflame their fouls! Let us all
swear upon the grave of our fathers, and upon
tht cradle of our children—Let us swear by
the victims of the loth of August, by the
bones of our brethren yet feathered over the
fields, that we will revenge them, or die like
the™,.
.As for you, opulent and more favoured men,
wjjo -are rather egtttifts than republicans, who
sigh for aothing but for reft—aid us to conquer,
and foeo you will have peace.
if Tehitel by indolence, you cannot sustain
the fatigues of war—open your trsafures to in
digence, and buy defenders, who may supply
your place. v ,
Whilst your brethren triumphed in Belgia,
and upon the Alps, whilst they bid defiance to
colli, to hunger, aiid to' death; whilst, they
climbed up mountains and l'caled ramparts, you
wererepofing i»the arnn of luxury, and can
you refufe even pecuniary succours! Is then
gold more pruciojj* *:) o od! If on one. hand
the love for your country persuades you to
make facrifices, let at leaftoM .he other",lntereft
irtprl ygtf to k; rrfL--
ly and your security depend upon the lticcefs of
this "war; Liberty will not perift before public
fortune is »lfo Annihilated, and France dismem
bered, if the tnemies triumph, woe to them
who have wronged our country.
Rich citizens, if you wifn your country 1 to
bi generous towards'"you, fulfil your duties-to
wards her ; too often man becomes a viitim,
because he has refufed to do justice. Let your
opinions be what they will, your cause is com
mon we all are but pall'engers in the vessel of
the Revolution, (he is launched, (he mutt come
into, harbour, or Ihe must go to pieces, and none
will find a plant in the universal wreck. There
is only one means»tofave us all, the whole mass
«f citizene must form a powerful colossus who
standing upright before the nations, must hold
withjone hand the exterminating sword of the
nation, and waving it over the earth and over
ihe seas (hall overflow ai ruies and fleets.
Popular societies, ye ramparts of the Revo
lution—ye who gave birth to Liberty, and who
Watch over its cradle, create defenders to it by
y<tureloquence,ydur examples; imprint a great.,
motion, and elevate your fouls to the highest
degree of enthusiasm ,
Warriors, who at the voice of your country
fly, to the.field of combat, we do not endeavour:
to excite your courage. Frenchmen and Repub->
licans, you are full of honour and bravery ; but
we recommend to you in the name of the • Re
public, obedience toyour chiefs, for without dis
cipline there can be no armies,no success ; with
out discipline courage is ulelefs, and number is
impotent ; discipline supplies every thing, and
nothing supplies its place.
Conquerorsof Vainly, Spires, and Argonne ;
will you fuffer to perilh what you have onCe sa
ved? No, y6u will also vanquish these new
phalanxes the North is vomiting forth ; you
will defeat England on that clement at present
the theatre of her power. Let our brave fail
orsfly to the veflelsof the Republic. Our ma
rine as renowned for their patriotism, as our
armies, (hall heap vi&ory upon vi&ury, difin
cumbered of an effeminate nobility, it is invin
cible. Sons of commerce, who under the yoke
cf a despotism that overwhelmed you with iti
fults, produced a Jean Dirt-Duquene Dague
Trouin, jyhat is there not to be expected from
you under die reign of Equality ?—No more
retrain the combat tn the dilcharge of cannoa
— a freeman (hould depend only on him
felf. Our grenadiers have themfclves -dilmoun
ted batteries with their bayonets. Our Hussars
luve charged on b .rfebacV from the ramparts.
Do you in your turn attack their decks. There
let these proud illanders ; these despots of the
ft», fall under the stroke of your hatchet.
Sailors, soldiers, may a salutary emulation
animate yos ! may an equal fuccefscrown your
endeavours 1 Are you conquered ? France be
comes the feoff of nations, and the prey of ty
rants; already fee your savage conquerors dart
upop her, iifcxbem infuk, ravage, jnd lay her
waste ! Sec them at a lols for vi<Slims to glut
themfelTCs with, to appease the maces of Ca
pet! See, illuminated by th,e flames of Paris,
whither they carry their vengennce, whither
the hangman/ drags your iriends and your bro
thers; your defeat covers the earth with mour
ning and with tears, liberty Hums these deso
late regions, and with her van;flves the happi
neis ps the human race ; long after you ihall
be no more, the unhappy will clank their chains
over your tombs, and insult your allies.
You vanquish, and there is an end to tyrants;
mankind embrace each other, and ashamed of
their long error, extinguish the torch of war j
they proclaim you the saviours of your coun
try; the founders of the republic,, the restorers
of the univcrfe; and the nation will crown you
with laurels you have earned for it.
For you may fall in the field of honour,what
can e'tjual your glory ? Your grateful country
will provide for your families, will engrave
your names on marble, and on bra's, or rather,
they ihall dwell for ever on the Irontifplece of
the great temple of universal liberty, and fu
ture generations, when they read them (hall
/ay, these are the French heroes who broke the
chains of the human race, who interested them- 1
felvcs in our happineft, when we did not even
Happy France ! such is the exalted destiny
that is prepared for you. JLole not yeurfelves
in its vaftnefs; perform it with heroism, that
hiftoty not funjifh from its annals, any tri
umphs to compare with 'yrturs. Efface at once
the glories of the republicsof Greece,and Rome.
Accomplifli more in one year, under the reign
of liberty, than you have done in ages under
the reign of kings. Compel Grangers to l'peak
of the French republic feut with refpeeft—of
French citirens but with enthusiastic admirati
on, . ...
As to us, firm at our pods, we promise to fct
iyouthe example of unbounded ciwfm, courage,
and devotion. We will imitate, should there
beoccafion, those Roman fenacors, who waited
their death up in the curule chair. They have
laid that we are divided among ourselves, take
care how you listen to them; if our opinions
differ, our sentiments are the fame. We differ
as to the means, but our objeit is one. Our de
liberations are tumultuous, but how can wehelp
beingatiimated in difcufiing our nearest intc
refts. 'Tis oiir eagerneis for the public good
which agitates i»; the decree once passed, the
clamour is at an end, but the law remains.
Franks, rely upon your reprefentatives,what
ever may be the event, they will ourageoufly
,struggle against fortune and against man ; never
will they in thy name, capitulate with tyran
ny.
When firft we were conflituted a convention
it Teemed to us as we heard the voice of our
country, suggesting to. us, " go, and render
me free, and insure my futufe happiness at the
expence of momentary tranquillity."
If to ensure freedom Europe must be con
quered, speak and I will join battle with her,
.wHaievcr may be my loiVts, my dangers and fa
tigues. Give me no difinitive peace, without
pure and fimpleindependence. Oh! my coun
try ! that sublime language has penetrated our
fouls; has remained impressive on our hearts:
will form the unerring rule of our condu&,and
thou {halt be laved.
NEW-YORK, April 30.
By the lhip Holdernefs, Captain Wray, jnft
arrived from Hull, in 30 days, we have re
ceived the following impo'tant intelligence :
That the F-ench army under Dumourier, and
the Auft ians, &c, have had a tremendous
battle, wnich lasted two days!
Cupt. Wray ays the account of the above
fbattie is publilbed in the London Gazette—
it bewail on the 16th March, continued the
whnie day—on the 17th there was a cessation
—011 the 18th the Auftrians renewed the at
tack, having been reinforced, this turned the
i fortune of the day in their favor—Gen. Du
mourier was wounded in the thigh. The
Captain added, tljat it was reported that.
Gen. Dumourier had still an army of 80,600
' men, and had retreated farther into tire Nc*"
therlands—that the field of battle was be
tween the Meuie and Breda—that the French
still held Breda, but it was feared the French
, garrilbn would be cut off. The Capt. could
not tell what was the loss 011 the fide of the
nor wbo commanded them—it is
supposed that it was Gen. Clairfait.
ExtraS 0] a. letter Jrom a gentleman in Leeds, dated
March g, 1793, to hii friend in this city.
" Yon have heard by the last Packet; of
some feri.ous failures in London, and you will
too soon hear of more. The era(h that ha*
happened to many of our country banks, ffnee
that'time, has been what was never before
known or heard of, in this, or perhaps any
country; all confidence is destroyed ; and it
■ is much to be feared the consequences will be'
fatal to fnany men of real immense property.'
Philadelphia, May 4.
Yefterdav arrived here the ship Pigou,Capt.
J.oxley, from London—This ship has a large
number of pafiengers, among whom are the
Viscount dc- Noailles, M. Tallon, Rev. Dr.
Duche and Family, &rc.—The Pigou brings
papers to the 2lft March, which are uot later
than thole heretofore received.
Thorfday afternoon the French Frigate I'Ero
bufcadc, Cap!. Bompard, came up to town—
off Walnut-lireer, (he fired the federal salute of
15 guns, wlfiich waireturntd by two field piecrs,
from High-ftrcel wharf, arid three chc«ri from
an immerife croud of people collected on the
occafton. The Frigate carries the Cap of .Liberty
oo ber fore-top-tnaft.
The prize ship Gunge came up Wednrfday
evening, and anchored below it* Drawbridge.
-387-
•d Jummary of th: I ate J} Epitope a{?
IwrtiLiGENce, is com prized in
the fulloTving flatcment.
TH£ Government of lielandhave made
great progress in difarrajng the people. It
does not appear that any opposition has been
made tb the rneaftire. In many instances tHe
cannon and mufquetry have been voluntarily
surrendered.
Koningftein surrendered to the Pruflians
who took 44 0 piifoners. The
French, have railed the siege of Williamftodt,
evacuateci Klundert, retreated towards Ant
werp, after leaving their cannon and setting
fire own batteries at Moerdvk ; and
from the general tenor of accounts from
Holland,; there is reason to expect the attack
. upt>n,lhe United Netherlands inuft be aban
dVjU, .
ietf r'T from Cologne of the 4th of March,
ft&fe the loss of the French, in tlie action of
' the jft of March, to be 6,5:50 men, and 45
pieces of cannon ; the Iniperialifts had 353
„ killed, and 236 wounded. The city of Liege
was taken by the Auftrians, on the sth of
Inarch.
By the latest accounts from the feat of the
European war, it appears, that the French
have met with several severe checks—First,
a» at Aldenhoven, then a defeat at
Aix-Ja-Chapelle, the loss of Liege, &c. and
finally, Miranda's army, by the accounts from
England, was reported to have fuffered a to
itil overthrow between Louvain and Bruflels.
Duniourier, not from any material difadvari
lage on his fide, but in conlequence of the re
treat and misfortune of hts colleague, has
fallen back ; but it appears he intends to make
a (land at Breda, to the fortifications of which
place he was making additions at the date of
our last accounts.
It i* said in the Englilh papers, that the
'Aiiftrkttis have re-poffefled themselves of
( without lofingaman.
; Hie Jfsejich expedition ajainft (Sardinia
ph*s failed—the fleet under Admiral "jfriiguet,
is returned to Toulon, with the loss of a Ihip
• of the line, and a Tartan.
, An additional number of failures in the
mercantile and banking lines, have taken
place in England, according to the lateit ac
counts. .
Paris, March 11.
PROCLAMATION BY THE COMMUNE
OF PARIS.
'' To ArmSy Citizens, to Arms ! If you delay, all
is lojl. A great part of the Republic is over
ran; Aix-la-Cliapelle, Liege, Brussels, niuft
bein the poiTeffion of the enemy ; the heavy
artillery, the baggage, the treaiure of the ar
my, are retreating with precipitation to Va
lenciennes, the only plate that can stop the
enemy for a moment. What cannot follow
wi|l be thrown into the Meufe. Dumouri.er
is making conqnelts in Holland ; but, if not
supported by considerable forces, Dumourier,
and with him the flower of the French armies,
may be (wallowed up.
u Parisians! behold the greatness of the
danger; will you permit, the enemy again to
lay waste the "Land of Liberty, and to burn
yaur towjis and villages ?
u Parisians! it is against you in particular
that this abominable war is directed, it is your
wives and children that are to be massacred,
itis Paris that is to be reduced to allies; re
coiled that the insolent Brunfwick has sworn
not to leave one ftorie on another.
u Parisians ! once more save the Common
wealth, give an example once more, arile, arm,
march, and rhefe bands of (laves will again give
way before you.
• 4 It is necelTary to make a great effort, a ter
rible ftioke, a lall blow ! This campaign must
decide the fate of the world ; we mart dismay,
we must exterminate Kings ! Men of the 14th
of July, of the sth of Ottober ; men of the 16th
of August, awake !
44 Your brethren, your children, purfuedby
the enemy, (unrounded perhaps, caiJ to you 1
1 Your breihren and children, maftacred on the
10th of August, on the plainsof Champagne, un
der tfcefmoaking ruins of Lisle ; your biflihren
Gemappe—arife ! they must be revenged.
lift all the atms be carricd into the Sec
tions ; let eveiy citizen meet there; let us swear
>to save our country ; let us save it. Misfortune
light on him who shall hefuate; let /trmorrow
thousands o\ men leave Paris ; this is ihe dead
ly cqmbat between Men and King*, betweer
Bondage and Liberty !
National Convention of France, March 7,
WAR WITH SPAIN.
Barrere, in the name of the committee of
general defence, £ave in a report on the political
fauation of France with regard 10 Spain. He
read a letter from the rinuiftei for ioreign af
fairs on this fubjeft, and endeavoured to ihew
that the king of Spain had never remained nea
ter; that the Republic ought to revenge the in
sults which it had received (rom that monarch ;
and that one enemy more would only be a pre
face of new vi&ories. He therelore propuled,
and the Convention unanimously decreed,
Art. 1. The National Convention declares in
the name of the French nation, that in confede
ration of the multiplied a£h ot aggrrflion on the
psil of Spain, THE FRENCH REPUBLIC IS
at war with the king ofspain.
11. The National Convention charges the ex
ecutive council to call forth all the forces which
may appear ncceflary for repelling the aggrt fUon,
and for maintaining the independence, dignity,
■ and interefis of the French Republic. It will
therefore pursue such measures that the atmy of
the Pyrennees be raised to 100,000 men.
111. Sixcommiffionrrs, chosen from the Con
vention, ft-all repair to the southern departments,
10 provide for the warns of the army, to accele
rate the recruiting, and to animate the zeal of
the citizens.
evening sitting
Genfonnewas defied Prtfident, in opposition
le "fhuriot. This the moderate party regard a
a vlQory over the Mountain.
Mayor.
Co lom>*a U, Secretary."
Extrafi of u Utter /torn Maifiit'ss, thj'ci Tel. i -
17.43-
* c Sonic tVfcnch vetteh from this
place to the United States la*t Cummer, ai-c
returned with wheat or flour, but the quanti
ty was so Anal! or trifling for the great con
sumption of this and other neighboring pla
ces, that we are actually in the greateit need,
having proviftQii scarcely for two months, for
this place only, and nothing to provide the
neighboring ones, who caonot obtain from
this one charge of wheat or a barrel of flour,
prices have risen ofconrfe.—New York wheat
has been fold at 751 a Bdl. pr. charge, flour
75l- 80, a 85, pr. barrel, none remains unfoid;
the firft arrivals will obtain $\.f Imore,
and God knows what price they wrll offer in
two or three months, 1101. perhapr 120]. pr.
barrel; fortunate they will be if they find to
purchase*
** 111 the pre Tent circumstances if you re.
main neutral, your trade and vessels will pro
cure to the United States large benefits; now
the duty on tobacco, in American veiTels,
is reduced and at a very filial) difference from
that imported in French bottoms. Foreign
vessels may be purchased by the French —
The Americans are allowed to trade freely
with the French Weft-Indies. The French
not going this year to the Newfoundland filh
ery, your baccalao will obtain great prices
this fall and next winter, and I am confident
that the prohibitive duty imposed on foreign
baccalao will be moderated as it has been du
ring all the last war; your fliips will be the
carriers of all the belligerent powers, and
now I could freight here fifty American ves
sels, and the shippers or their insurers here
would make a very trifling difference be
tween your colours, and the Swediih or Da<-
nifh ones on account of your war with Al
giers, thirty dollars freight pr. ton only to go
to Philadelphia are offered to me on Ame-"
rican bottoms.
Tobacco is worth -from 65]. & 75, pr. ql.
marc taken in the entrepot —Carolina rice
4,5 L pr. ql. of 921b EaglifH, baccalao will ob
tain 551. pr. ql. of 931b. next fail. The
French armed veflels which will be in number
in the Mediterranean Tea will always take un
der their protection the American veilcrls they
may meet."
A letter from New-York, dated April 30,
fays :—The Alligator Butifh frigate, Capt.
Coffin, of 28 guns, was spoke with three days
ago, by a vellcl arrived here last Weduefdny.
As a proof of the alacrity which the people of
England, notwithstanding their pteieiu internal
commotions, daily rtianifeft in carrying on the
war against France, Mr. Atkinfon, a paffengtr
in the Roebuck, mentions, that in tbeipaceof
a fortnight, while in Manchester, previous to
his cmbaiking at Briflol, not less than 300®
volunteers were raised, and seamen fiockea to
gether so fact, that from 60 to 80 tpen embark
ed on board tenders every morning.
Wednesday evening about fix o'clock, arrived
here the : ship Ii Conftante, Jofcpb Fifcovich,
fcfq. comffcander, belonging to the Republic of
Ragufa, in the Gulph oJ Venice, of 6so tons
burthen, pierced for 42 guns, and carries 22/ N
d.itto ; lhe left Cadiz theistli day of Oflober
last bound tor this port, which she could not
make, after which she bore away sos Martinico,
from which place she took her departure the
2d of April. The IlConltante fired thucee.o.
guns as soon as she dropt her anchor, in honor
of the United States, she was aofwercd by the
piize brig Little Sarah.
The colours exhibited by this ship is a Re»-
presentation of tfie Chief Biftiop oi Rome, wiiJj
his hook, keys, and mitre in a white field.
On Taefday afternoon were interred in the
family vault in Christ Church yard, the re
mains of John Cox, Esquire, aged 61
Of this refpe£tablecitizen it may be truly said,
that in every pursuit and station of his life, he
was a&ive, intelligent and just. All his enter
prizts, both public and private, were marked
with vigor and decision of mind. In domeftc
life he was affe&tonate, in friendfhip ardent and
(incere, in benevolence unbounded. The dis
order which put an end to his life was painful
and tedious, but ir served to evince, that the
pajjivc were not surpassed by the aflive qualities
ofhisrmnd : He was patient and resigned, and
finally yielded his foul into the hands of
Creator, in full a flu ranee of cn'ein>g upon the
pofieflion of that life and immortality which
were brought to light bv the Gospel.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED*/the POR-Xof PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Roebuck, Biifs, Bristol
II Conftante, Ifcowich, Martinique
(grange, Hutchinfon, returned a capture
Favour iie, Heavilide, returned for lafety
A6live, Blair, Havre-de-Gi^H
Boston
irig Missouri, Mease, Cork
James 4c Jean, Dunkin, returned for fafcty
Bet fey, Elliott, Cape-Francois
Schr. Madison, Carson, Marseilles
Ranger, Dyer,
Sloop folly, Smith, Savaan*
Ceftus, Cow! rod,
St. Thomas, Duafcomb, St. Eaftttiui
The (hip Industry, Capt. Cat (on, from Harre
de Grace, went afhor'c in. the g*te lift Saturday
morning. Eight French pafffcagtrs, impatient,
to be put on (bore, bet«r< the boat could pe get
into the water, jumped lot# it, by whtchjneartj
the tackle gave yay, and' the feotf went &own.
ftcrn foretrioft into thcwaltf; b'y this
choly accident, the cight peikuu became aa eaff
prey to the boifterouaelement. The (hip had
previously loft two of her handt, and the yawl.
Gteat put of the cargo will be fifed, and it
ii (aid, the (hip got off.
The (loo* Betsey, Prior, and cargo, from
Philadelphia bound to New-Ycuk, are totally
loftixar shre<g(bury.,
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cents, 16/9
3 per Cents, 9/6
Deferred, toj
Full fb*rc* Baak. U. 3. 4 per ccnt. prem*
/of tin GAZETTE of the UNITED STALIS,
THODGHT3 ON THI
STATE t)F AMERICAN INDIANS.
(Koittiaved/ran A». 94, of '■!'>' Ctizdle.)
No. V
YX'OTHfcR caiife ihirh h-is had no inconti
derabif influence in letatding the civiiiz*-
fOni of the Indians, is their icmovai {torn the
neighbourhood ,<»f the Aliim into the interior
and uncultivated pari* ot liic cou;i»rv.
The amazing diitame between the fdvage and
civilized Halt— 'he d:H *rcut means of procuring
fubhUeiic:—ilie ufujl habns of living peculiar to
CdJ»—the various mode* of cduc<uirtn —the oo
polite qualifications that ptocurc cittern and re
tp?£t, sad the pccjfioual and coullant eino.oy
menisof the two (Idles, render »u imiuidiatt
-Opinion nnprathcable.
Yhc'e cireumilauces, with the fpint of hosti
lity which early generated an enmity between
the two people, accelerated their ft-pa :ation, and
prevented ilic eftcCl which the Ipint of accom
modation might m oinci circumitances have
operated.
The Angle difference in procuring support,
uiuft, without achange*>f living, hav< iendered
the removal ot liic Lvagts mdifperilabie. As
the country is fettled, ihc timber Idled, habna
c 10us eretted, and lands occupied and cultivated,
those animals which luruilh the with
their principal support decay. ThVy have heen
\ed therefore by the calls of nature and neceflii v,
rather thao by «>ny concert r fcheine ol policy.
Their removal pieced them at once beyond the
reach of improvemcn:. While in the neigh
bourhood u! a moie civilized and (ocial people,
they would more easily become acquainted wiih
the advantages vyhicb they enjoy, and more rea
dily adopt their am, ihcir manners and way of
living. By a frequent interchange of go;>d of
fices, and daily obleivation ot the security and
abundance of their support* with the numerous
advantages of arts, of agriculture, ot inltruments
litid of industry; they would gradually drop their
prejudices; become more kufible of the attrac
tions of society, and at length embrace the; habas
arid improvements of civilized life.
The civilization of a baibarous nation indeed
can only be effe&ed by flow degrte*, even when
coudu&ed on proper principles and uniformly
prosecuted. Yet we can hardly conceive it pos
sible for a people, under so many favorable cir
cumftances,to remain long without making some
advances towards more agreeable and improved
locicty.
But when, instead of remaining near the
whites, they withdrew beyond the reach ot
society, it became impolTible lor tliem io derive
any benefit from the knowledge of their arts,or
the ir.ftitutions which they might have commu
nicated to them.
The mortifying circumstances which caused
znd accompanied their removal, mutt have con
firmed their prciudices in favor of their own
manner of life, and augmented their aversion
from the whites. These prejudices they would
carefullv inilill into the minds of their youth;
and by bfir;; teoeatedly renewed and cultivated
into a habit, they become invincible. Thus
every new generation grows up with all the pas
sions, prejudices and enmities of the preceding,
and a foundation is laid for perpetual animosity
and variance.
These arc the principal caufcs which appear
to me to have retarded the civilzation of the In
dians; and their combined influence seems fuf
ficient to account for their present barbarity,
without having recourse to a supposed incapa
city for improvement, or to any other imaginary
hypothecs. LYCURGUS.
DEPARTMENT of STATE, to wit.
NOTICE is hereby given to persons inter
ested in t'fie property or the proceedings
of CLAUDIUS PAUL RAGUETT, a citizen
of Pennsylvania, lately deceased, at Bourdeaux,
in France, that on application at the Office of
the Secretary of State, they may receive infor
mation relative theieto, as transmitted by Mr.
>'enwick, Consul for the United States at
Bourdeaux.
GEORGE TAYLOR, jun. Chief Clerk,
Philadelphia, April 30, 1793. 31
Albany Glafs-Houfe.
The Prop.nctars of Vie Oiafs-Mjnufactory, under
ihe Firm of
M'CLALLEN, M'GREGOK and Co
BEG leave to inform the public, that they have
now brough: then WI SfDO-W-GLASS to
fueh perfe&ion, c>s will be found, on companion,
Jp be equal, in quality, to the bell London
Crown Giak.
Having fixed their prices at a lower ratefh.io
imported Glass, they are induced to believe, that
importations of t.his article will be discontinued,
in proportion as their works are exiended.—
They propose to enlarge the scale of this bufi
r.efs, «nd as the fucce.fs of it will depend on the
patriotic support of the public, they beg leave 10
solicit their friendly patronage in t,he pursuit of
a bianch which wiil inrereft every lover of
Am Ihic an MaN'Bfactu£Vs.
All ardei s lor. Wi kdow-G lass, of any size,
■will be received at the Stare of Rhouls and
M»cG«icok, No, 234, o:ieen-fttcct, Nevy-
York, and at the Glals wVehonfr, No. 48,
Mafket-llreet, Albany, which will be punctually
attended to.
WANTED, fix smart a&jve LAX)S, not
exceeding 16 .Years of age, to bo indented as
Apprentices, and regularly initru£Ud in the
varions btanch'es of GUfs-Making.
Also, three Window-GUIs Mjkert, to whom
great will be given.
May 1, 1793
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL HYSON&SOL'CHONG
Oft he vefy tirj§ I at eft importation
from Cauion,New-York, by mail,at
No- 19,
Third, between Chcfpur and Market Streets.
>T. P». AJew. Boxdi oj übi'i c HYSON jV fait.
PRESIDENT of the United States
A Proclamation.
WHEREAS it appears, tliat a flare of"
war exists between Austria, I'ruflia,
Sardinia, G. Britain, and the United Nether
lands, oi" the one part; and France, on the
orber—and the duty and inUreft of the Uni
ted States require, that tliey Ihould with sin
cerity and ?ood faith adopt and pursue a con.
du& friendly and impartial towards thtM*l
ligerent powers.
I HAVE therefore thought fit by these
presents, to declare the disposition of the
United States to observe the conduct afpre
faid towards those powers reipc&ively; and
to exhort and warn the citizens of the Unite d
States carefully to avoid all atts and proceed
ings whatsoever, which may In any manner
tend to contravene such difpolition.
AND I DO hereby also make known, that
whomever of the citizens of the United States
shall render himfelf liable to punilhment or
forfeiture under the law of nations, by com
mitting, aiding or abetting hostilities against
any of the said powers, or by carrying to any
of them those articles, w|iiqti are deemed con
traband by the modern usage of nations, will
not receive the protection of the United
States against such punishment or forfeiture ;
and further, tbwt I have given instructions to
those officers, to whom it belongs, to cau'e
prosecutions to be jnftituted against all per
sons, who (hall, within the cognisance of the
Courts of the United States, violate the law
of nations, with refpeft to the power?; at;
war, or any of them.
IN TESTIMONY whereof, I have cau
i'cd the Seal of the United States of
America to be affixed to these pre-
fents, and signed the fame with my
hand. Done at the City of Philadel
phia, the t .venty.fecond day of April,
( L,s ') one thousand (even hundred and nine
"w ty-three, and of the Independence of*
the United States of America the se
venteenth.
G. Washington.
By the President,
JUST PUBLISHED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
Bookfe'Ur, at the Stone-HovJe y in Second Jire*J t
Philaoelphia,
VOLUME VIII, of
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
ok, A DICTIONARY OF ARTS, SCI ENCEt,
*no MISCELL ANEOUS I.ITERATURE,
On a Plan entirely new
BY WHICH
The Different SCIENCES and ARTS
are dijefted into the Form of Diliinfcl,
TREATISES OR SYSTEMS
THIS VOLUME CONTAINS
AN Account of the Cap of Good Hope,
Grafting, Universal Grammar, GrafTes,
Greece, Greenland, Guam, Guitiea, Gunnery,
Happiness, Harmony, Heat, Hepatic-Air, He
ra,ld ry, Hind oUan, Hi ppopotaiy us, History, New-
Holland, Horse, Horfcmanfhip, Hottentots,
Hunting, Husbandry, Hydrometer, with a great
variety ot Biographical and Miscellaneous Arti
cles. Embelltfhed with sixteen Copperplates.
CONDITIONS.
I. The work is printing on a fuperfine paper,
and new types, (cart lor the pu>pofe) which
will be oCcasionally renewed before they con
tract a worn aopearance.
11. The work is furniflied in boards, in volumes
or half-volumes, as subscribers chufe; the price
of the whole volumes, five dollars each, ot the
half-vola:n?& two dollars and two-thirds dtf a
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on fub
fcribmg, the volumes or half-volumes finifbed
to be paid for when delivered, the price of one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each succeeding volume to be paid on deliver
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
work will be delivered unless paid for.
111. In the coutfe of the publication will be de
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia: which by
far excecd in number thafe given in any other
lcientific di&ionary. At the close of the pub
lication will be delivered an elegant frontif
ptcce, the dedication, preface, and prope» ti
tle pages for the different volumes,
It is exp.e£lcd the work will be comprised in
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
(f3* At fcvcal gentlemen who have honored this
undertaking with early fubferiptions, have only re
ceived a [mul ipa ft 0} the work, they are earn ejlly
requeued to complete their Jets, as jar as published,
immediately, while the publifker Jlill. has it in his
power tofupply them with the pans which have not
been furnifhed. As the fubjeription will very pofli
bly he closed by the firft of July next, the puhlifher
cannot undertake to complete Jets a!tcr thafperioi\
and thilje who tuijh to become poffejfors of this truly
valuable and important work, will please apply before
the expiration oj that time, that they may not be dip
appointed. J
The very heavy expevce necejjarilv incurred in car.
r'.tvg. on this work, makes it indtfpenfabh reauihtr
jor the pubh/her to adhere more Jiri(ll\ than he hat
d,>ne to the original condition, oj delkering t'ie vo,
/umes only on being paid for them.
April 6, 1793.
epi 2 w
TO BE SOLD BY THE EDITOR,
A TABLE tor receiving and paying Gold
graduated accojding to Law — Blank Mamfefts—
And Blanks for the various Powers of Attorney
n.ceffary in iranfaftmg Bufmcfi at the Tteaiutv
or Bank of the the United SUias.
BY THE
of America.
Tli: JEFFERSON.
epim
388
TO THOSE CONCERNED IN MILLS IS
THE UNITED STATES.
OLIVER EVANS, laic ol the Itate of Dela
waie, informs the public, that he has re
moved to Philadelphia, No 437, N.onh Second
rtr.ec, where he will receive any
applications (or the u/c of his Patent Improve
ments on. \iiUo, <ud the ait of manuU&uring
Floor. Ho will furnifti thole who are not fuffi
ctfrntly acquainted with the principles of his im
provements, with drawings and defcripnons,
thai will enable them to frcft all the different
machines nectflary to perform the operations of
cleaning, grinding, houiting, and of boulting
over the middlings or coarft meal, and grinding
it over with the grain, so ?s to hniih\al! together,
thereby making the greatcft quantity ol lupcriine
flour that the grain will produce at one opera
tion.— He has been at much expense in collect
ing the different and moil approved conftfutVons
of mills and plans for bruiting, and the quality,
fizr, and manner of drefling the mill-ttone®, fuif
able to the power of the mill, and quality ol she
grain : and will a {Jit I in planning mills f»om
the foundation, and make drawings thereof, if
required. He has for sale, Boulting Cloths and
Mtil-Stones, of the firft quality, at the lowed
prices, which he will warrant. If the ft ones,
prove not good, they will be received again,
and the colt of carriage paid. Those who ap
ply for either stones or cloths, will pleale to
mention ihe power of the mill, (ize of the
boulting-reels, quality of ihe grain, and on what
business it is to run. Orders by poll, or other
wise, will be as pun&ually attended to as if the
parties were pre lent.
Philadelphia, April 13.
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-llreet, New-York.
THE Subscriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely to the PURCHASE & SALE of
STOCKS 011 COMMISSION, begsleave 10 of
fer his services to his friends and others, in the
line of a Stock Broker. Those who may pleafc
'to favor him with rh<*ii business, may depend
upon having it tranfa&ed with the utmost fide
lity and dispatch.
Orders from Philadelphia, Boston, or any
other part of the United States, will be (irifily
attended to.
(t.f.)j
TO BE SOLD,
A noted covering Horse,
OF THE HUNTING BREED.
HE was imported tiom England in Novem
ber, feventeeu hundred and eighty-fjx, and
is now ten years old ; he is a bright bay, with a
blaze,fifleen handsone inch high, is well foirn'd,
has a great deal of bone and strength, and his
ast ion equal to any horse. His colts are well
approved of in the different parts of the State
where he has flood, of which any person inclined
10 pure ha fe can inform thenofclvcs. Enquire
of I he Printer.
February 18, 1793.
Just publijhed.
By THOMAS DOBSON,
At the tLonc Hou[; t No. 41 1 Sauth Sccond-^iTe^
CASE,
Decided in the Supreme Court of the United
States, in which is difcufled the Question,
WHETHER A STATE IS LIABLE TO BE
SUED BY A PRIVATE CITIZEN OF
ANOTHER STATE ?
Price Half a Dollar.
VinalPs Arithmetic.
THE Second Edition of ihis work, with im
provements, will speedily be put to press.
The rapid sale ot the fir ft edition*, greatly be
yond the author's most (anguine expe&ations,
cncourages him to print a fecood edition. He
intends to have it printed upon much better pa
per than the former, and with a new type.
Those Bookfellcrs who wi(h to take a num
ber of copies in theets, are requested to apply to
the author for particulars.
* iooo Copies.
At a metting of the School Committee,
February 51b, 1793.
The Committee, appointed to examine 41 The
Preceptor's Afllftani, or Student's Guide," beimr
a fyftemaiical treadle of Arithmetic, by Jon n
Vi nal 1., teacher of the Mathematics & Writ
ing, tn Bolton, reported, that they have attended
that service, and are ol opinion, that the woik
is executed with judgment, and is as well calcu
lated for the use of schools, counting houses, and
private families, as any of the fame compass
that has hitherto been offered to the public.
Voted, 1 h<it the above report be accepted,
and that Mr. Vinall be furuilhcd with a copy
of it, whenever he (hall desire it.
Copy of the Records. Attest,
CHARLES BULFINCH, Stc'ry.
The following character of the above work,
is given in the Review of the Majjuchufetti Ma
gazine, for Jan. 1.793 ;
" This is a very ufeful work, and is 110 ill
proof of thejudgment and induQry of the author,
she rules are laid down with propriety, and
the examples annexed are lulikient lor their il
luflration. One part of the work deserves par*
ticular commendation. We mean that which
the author (files " Mercantile Arithmetic " It
occupies a considerable portion of his book, hut
not more than its importance will juftify. We
would recommend to' the young Arithmetician
to pay a particular attention to this branch.
Me will find its principles well explained. And
{hould he make himfelf master of them, he will
always have reason to acknowledge his obliga
tion to ihe judicious and laborious author. We
cannot but congratulate the riling generation on
account of the many.ufeful proiiuflions which
have lately appealed ; and in which Iheii im
provement has been principally confuhed —
Among thole produfiions we mult place this
tieat.fr o( Arithmetic. We (hould be wanting
in justice to the author, (hould we .101 acknow
ledge that his work is in reality ihat which its
title imports-The Preceptok's Assistant
or bruDENi's Gmo^."
Sejlin, tei. 13
jawjjw
LEONARD BLEFCKF.R
I. C. A. A. A. S
Post-Roau
THE GENESEE COUNT Hl'
THE publ,care hereby inform d',h.i ,'l.
Post-Road from Philadelphia to R"-d
is continued to Sunbu.y ~,d NVmh.mbc.i
thence up .he Weft Branch „f ,|, t
.5 far a> I ,hc..ce <o the P,„„ tt) t ,
(.11 ork Haie, nca. tin ! 0 ,k s 0 t ihe T
.hence to B*ih (a town lai<t o„i on ihe Cnh.'j?''
B.anchof theT.oga) thc.ee to W. 11 , a „ lbl . TJ*
it the forks of Genelte River. °*
Letter* for this ww toutc will bps f
•+»<" Vmladelphit Poft.Office every Wedn fa'"
mom.T.g, at right o'clock, with the ln ' ail
Reading. r
A weekly mail will alio he r» r i fd from
Bethlehem 10 tt'.lflufb .ne, ,n il.n cour.iv of
fafzerur.
Central foji-Offic.:, April 6, . 79).
ADVERTISEMENT.
WHLREAS a BRIDGE is to b • built ow .
Ra.itao K.ver, at the city at Ncw-Biurrf
wick, in the (late of New,-J e , ,ey_to wcomphlll
wli.ch, will require ihp (ervice ot m«yu !piw
te.s and inafons .il ixperience ; Notice i» .here
fort hereby given, that any pc.fon or perions
dining to undertake the whnle, or any pan dice*
of, by applying to the (übfcr.bers, o'» or belo.J
the Krftdayol Mav next, may ha.can o ?parlu .
nity of conirafiing for the fame.
John bayard,
JACOB HARDENBURCH
JOHN DENNIS, Sen.
Brvnfwtif Marth 9.4 th.
Morse's Geography,
Revifei, torrefied, and greatly enlarged, will, munj
additional M a ps, h'cll engraved.
In a lew weeks will be publifhcd,
By THOMAS and ANDREWS, Faust's Statu*,
No; 45. New bury-Street, Bottom,
Ifi Two Volumes, large Oflavo.
A NEW Edition of the AMERICAN
rL GEOGRAPHY: Being the Jargcft
and the b' i\ I'yftem of Gp.ogkaphy ever pub
lifhrd : Or a complete GEOGRAPHY of the
WORLD, brought down to the picfeut time.
IN TWO PARTS.
The- General Contents are—
PART 1.-Ol Altronomy,ascc<ii<icaedwith,
and introductory to the Icience of Geography :
under this head will be given ail account ol the
leveral aftrononncal fyft, ais ol the World, and
a particular description ol the true one. A table
of the diameters, periods, &c. of the fcveral
Planets in the solar lylteui—an account of the
Comets and fixed stars.
Of Geography — its use and prozrefs—
figure, magnitude and motion of the Eauh
Do&ritve oi ihe Sphere—Geographical circles—
Divisions of the Earth into zones and climares
—- methods. of finding the latitude and longitude
of places Imm celeltial
and their use—with
ful «od entertaining
Thrmrrruw M?p&,. a
and cold—theory of i..
of miles jo different <
of the v>
stile, &c. • ,
America — Its discovery by Columbus
general description of the Continent, in which is
a lengthy difcuflion of the qucftion, When,
whence, and by whom, was America fiift peo
pled ? With a iong and entertaining account of
the Indians,airo the late difcovcries on the liovth
weft coalt, Scz.—North America—chronn
logical account of its discovery and fittlcmcnts,
its di viftons -Dan ish America, British
America, U.n i t ei> States of America—
general description of them, including a history
of the late war, and many other ufeful and en
tertaining matters. South Amik ica—its di
visions, particular description of its several pro*
vtnees and counties. West India Islands,.
&c
* # * This part of the work will be illustrated
by maps of the countiies defenbed, lrom the
corre&eft copies.
PART ll.—Containing every thing effennal
which is contained in the best and latHi quarto
coition of Guthrie's and other Briulfi Gcogia
phies, with fele&iorrs, from celebrated naviga
tors, travellers and iclpettable authors of other
nations, &c.
Of hu rope in general—its grand divisions,
particular geographical descriptions of its Icve
ral Kingdoms and Republics, &c. Of Asia —
its situation, boundaries, general hirtory, parti
cular descriptions of its several divisions, &c.
Of Africa — iis general history, boundaries,
grand divisions, See. Also, new difcovmcs,
Terra Incognita, Geographical Table, alphabe
tically arranged—Chronological Table ot re
markable events, discoveries and inventions, lift
oi men of learning and genius, with other ufeiul
inifcellany.
*#* This part will also be illustrated with
maps of the countries described.
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE Author is fcnfrble that the fi'ft edition
of his American Geography (which makes Part
I. of the above work) was in many inftanc.es de
fective, in other* erroneous, and in iomeoffen
five. It has been his endeavour, as it was hi*
desire, in the present edition, to fupplv the defi
ciencies, corrcft the errors, and meliorate the
offenfivc parrs of the last. To aflift him in this
business, he has received many valuable commu
nications from ihe heads of department in the
general government, and from gentlemen of re-
in the several Rates. The descrip
tion of foreign countries- (which composes Pa rt
11. of the above work) has been carefully com
piled from the rood approved writers on Geo
graphy, and ufoiul information introduced from
the discoveries of the latest Navigators, Travel
lers, and refpc&able authors. Indeed, no pains
nor cxprnfe have been (pared to render this woi <
the most complete, accurate, and ufeful of any
ever offered to the public.
(ffT The price of this Gazette is Three Dollars
per half to be paid at the time of fit
fcribirvg.
liber of - \-.fc
-.rid m>-
' -s- diviftct!: