A NATIONAL PAPE.iI, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 34, NORTH FIFTH-STREET, PHILADELPHIA
[No. 95 of Vol. IV.]
BY THE
PRESIDENT UNITED STATES
of America.
A Proclamation.
WHEREAS it appearr, that a ftatr of
war exists between Austria, Prussia,
S4rdinia, G. Britain, and the United Nether
lands, of the one part; and France, on tiia
other—and the duty and iutereft of the Uni
ted States require, that they flvould with fin
er rity and good faith adopt and pursue a con.
duet friendly and impartial towards the bel
ligerent powers.
I ft*V£ rtewfora thought -It <ly the*
jltelents, to dcclare the difpofirion of the
United States to observe the conduct afore
faid towards those powers refpeftively; and
to exhort and warn the citizens of the United
States carefully to avoid all acts and proceed
ings whatsoever, which may In any manner
tend to contravene fuel) difjjtofit ion.
AND I DO hereby also make known, that
whol'ocver of the citizens of the United States
foall render himfelf liable to pnnifhment or
forfeiture under the law of nation 1 ;, by com
mitting, aiding pr abetting hostilities against
any of the said powers, or by carrying to any
of them those articles, which are deemed con
traband by tl>e modern usage of nations, wilt
not receive the protection of the United
States against such punifoment or forfeiture ;■
and further, that I have given inftruftions to
those officers, to whom it belongs, to cause
prosecutions to be inftitufed against all pcr
fpiiTs, who (Hall, within the cognizance of the
Courts of the United States, violate the law
of. nations, with refpeft to the powers at
ny, or any of them.
IN TE TT 810 NT whereof; I have cau
sed the Seal of the United States o{,
America to lie affixed to these pre
sents, and signed the fame with my
band. Done at the City of Philadel
phia, the twenty-second day of Aprils
( L S -) on? thpufaad seven hundred and.nino
—ty-three, and of the Independence of
the United States of America the se
ven teenth.
G. Washington,.
By V%S*S»#>snT,.
Tb: JEFFERSON.
AVS. QF THE. UNION.
SECOND
<SfIWGJtSSS Off THS UNITED STAGES,
AT THJ, SECOND SESSION,
Hpjjun and held at the City of Philadelphia,
in ths State of Pennsylvania, on Monday
the fifth ofNbvember, onethoufand
seven hundred arid ninety-two.
4,N. AQT iji addition to the cn
tituled, "An.a&to ettablilh the
Judicial Courts of the United
btatet.."
T) E it ena&ed by the Sinate and Hou*e ofi
JD/Reprefentatives of the United States; of
Cpngref? ajlsmbjed, That the at*-,
tendancp of only one of the justices of the su
preme court, at the several circuit courts of
t)ie United-State*, to be hereafter held, (hall
be fuffic«ent* any law requiring the attends
ajice, of two of the faid-'j uftices notwithftarvd*
ipg : That it ftiall be lawful foe
the AuCMei court, ip cases where elrcum-*
stances Jhal!, in their judgment, render the
fame necessary, to afflgn two of the said jufti
ce«s to attend the circuit court or courts, and
it fttall be the -duty of the juttices afligncd,
to attend accordingly* And provided alio,
r rhat,when only one judge of the supreme
court fHa.ll attend any circpjt court" and the
vliftritt judge {hall he ablent, or (hall have
been of counsel, or be concerned in. interest
in any cause, then pending, I'nch circuit court
may cbnfift of the laid judge of the supreme
court alone.
Ard be it furtlier enafttd, That if at any
time oijly out jurije-of the supreme court, and
tla judge of the riiftriftfliall fit in a circuit
court, ard upon a final hearing of a cause, or
of a pica to the jurifdi&ion of she court, they
ftaM be divided in opinion, it Diall be contin
ued to the luccecding court; and if upon the
second licaring when a different judge of the
fuprepie court (ha 1 be present, a like division
fliiiJl ta)ce place, the diftrift judge adhering
to hi* former opinion judgment fball be ren
dered in conformity to the opinion of the pre
«»»» j»d(;e.
SS' * - CA-' of A/
// r
And bt it fV'rter enacted, Tii.it th« fu
pren* court,"when the supreme court fhaU
not be fitting, any one of the justices thereof
together with the judge of the itiftrift within
which a fpeciil feflTum as hereafter authorized
fiiall be. holden, may dire<sl special ftflions of
the circuit courts to be holdin for the trial of
criminal caufet, at any convenient place with
in the tiiftiift, nearer to the place wliere the
olfences said to be committed, than
the place or placeappointed by lav/ for the
ordinary fellions : That the clerk of such cir
cuit court (hall, at lead thirty days before the
commencement of such special feflion, cause
tbe time and plaeefor holding the feme to be
notified for at least ihree weeks fucceflively,
> in one or mors of the news-papers publiflied
neatest to the place where the leffion is to be
holdeu : That all process, writs and recogni
zances ofevery kind, whether refpedting ju
ries, witnefles, bait or othenvifej which relate
to tbe cafe* to be tried at the (aid special fef
(ions, shall be conftdertd as belonging te fucb
leffions, in the fame manner as if they had
been ifTued or taken in reference thereto:
That any fpeciat session may be adjourned to
any time or times previon* to the »«*t stated
meeting of the circurt CO mit : That all bufi-
nefi depending for tnia) at any special court,
fliatl at the close thereof be coniidered a.-, of
qourfe removed to the next Itatcd term of
the circuit court : And that the diftrift courts
of Maine and Kentucky, fliatl have like pow-
er to hold special fefllons for the trial of cri
minal caues, ais hatli. been heretofore given l ,
or is hereby given to the circuit courts, tub-
jest to the like regulations-and reftriflions.
And be it further enacted, That bail for
appearance in any court of the United States',
in any criminal taufe rn which bail is by law
allowed, may be taken by any judge of the
United States, and chanceHor, judge? of a su
preme or superior court., or chief or fiift
judge of a court of common pleas of any state*,
or mayor ofa city in either of them, and by
any person having authority from a circuit
court, or tha diftrift coui t3 of Maine or Ken
tucky to tal»e bail-; which authority* rcvocai
ble at the djferetion of ftich court, any circuit
court or either of tlie diitric*t courts of Maine
or Kentucky,may give to one ormore discreet
persons learned in the law in any diftrift for
which such court is holden, where, from the
extent 06 the diftrift, asid reinotenefS' ef its
paxts from the uliial refideneeof any of the
before named officers, fuchprovifion (hall, in
the opinion of the court be neceCiry. Pro
vided, That nothing herein (hall be conftrn
ed'to extend to taking bail in ajiy cafe where
the punishment for the offence miry Be deaths
nor to abridge any power heretofore given by
the laws of the United States, to any defbrip
tion of persons to take hail.
And be it further, enacted, That writs of
ne exeat and of injunction may be granted by
any judge of the supreme court-in cases where
they might be gnanted by the supreme or a
circuit court ; but qo writ of ne exeat Ihail
be granted unlels a suit in equity be'commenc
ed, and fatisfaftory proof lhall be made to the
court or judge granting the fame,that the de
fendant designs quickly to depart from the
United States; nor (hall a writ of injunction
be granted to (lay proceedings iii'aivy court of
a. date ; nor shall such writ be granted in any
cafe without reasonable previous notice to the
adverse party, or his attorney, of the time
: and place oMnoving for the fame.
And be it further enacted, That subpoenas
for witnesses who may be required' to attend
a court of the United Suites-in any diftrift
thereof, may run into any other diftrift :
Provided, That in civil causes, the wituefi'es
living out of the diftrift in which the cou't is
boldeli, do riot live at a greater dlftance than
j one hundred miles from the place of holding
the fame.
| And be it further enacted. That it lhaH be
lawful for the fevfral courts, of the United
States from time to time as occalion may re
quire, to make rules and orders for their ref
peftive courts direftlng the returning-of
writs and procefl>s< the fiiin® of declaration*
and other pleadings, the taking of rules, the
entering and making up judgments by default
and other matters in the vacation and other
wise 111 a manner not repugnant to the laws
of the United-States to regulate the practice
ofthefaid courts relpeftively, as fliall be fit
and ueceiTaiy.for the advancement of jultice
and cfpecially to that e»d to prevent delays
in proceedings.
And l>e it further enacted. That where it is
now required by the laws of any State, that
goods taken in execution on a writ of fieri
facias, (hall be appraised, previous to tl»e sale
thereof, it (hall be lawful for the appraiser*
appointed under the authority of the State,
to appraise goods taken in execution, on a fi
eri facias iflued out of anjr court of the Uni
ted States, in the fame manner as if such
writ had issued out of a court held under the
authority of the State; and i t (ha'l be the du
ty of the marllial, in whose custody such goods
mav be, to summon the appraisers, in like
maimer, as the (heriff is by the laws of the
State required to summon thein : and the ap
praisers (hill be entitled, to the like fees, as
377
Saturday, April 27, 1795.
; 'life* of
■- VSsiStrtM waWSHlte" frShgduiy
firtnAfned, ibaU feiJ tn attend tt*'d pit-ftrth
the duties required of then:, the marlhal may
proceed io felf such goods, without an ap
praiferoent.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
ej the li6ufeof Reprrfentatitei.
JOHN LANGDON, / resident pro
tempo ( oj the Senate.
APPROVED MARCH 2, 1 793-
GLO. WASHINGTON,
President of the United States.
AN ACT relative to Claims against
the United Slates, not barred by
any of Limitation, and which
have not been already adjnfted.
BE it enacted by the Senate and Honfe of
Reprelentatives of the United States of
America, in Congress anembled, That all
claims upon the United States, for fefvlces or
fepplies, or for other cause, matter or thing 1 ,
furmfhfd or dont, previous to the fonrth day
of March, one thousand i'even hundred and
eighty-nine, whether founded upon certifi-
other written documents pub
lic or othenviie, which have not
alread/been barred by any act of limitation,
and which flia4l not be presented at the trea
sury befare the firft day of May, one thousand
seven hindred and ninety-four, fliall forever
after bebarredand precluded from settlement
or allowance : Provided, That nothing here
in contsined, shall be construed to afleft loan
otfice cetrficatc*, certificates of final settle
ment, irdents of inteneft, balances entered in
the booJij.of the Register of the Treasury,
certificates ilTued bv the Register of the Trea
f«ry, cotimoilly cajlecf-registered certificates,
Joans ofmoney obtained in foreign countries,
or certiicatc? ifiued pursuant to the ast, intii.
toled, 'J An a-ftmakirrg.proviiion for the debt
of the Uiked States.:" And provided further,
That nfithing herein contained, (hall be con
strued t» prohibit the proper officers of the
tTenfury from demanding an accouht or ac
counts so be renderetl', for any moniesliereto
fDre and not accounted' for, or from
the usual forms and ieftric»
tions, credits for expenditures, equal to the
fonv '">« been so advanced.
And be it further enacted; That it shall be
the duty of tile- Auditor of the Treaflity, to
receiveall fiich claims aforefaid as Have not
been heretofore barred-br any ast-os limita»
tion, as fliall be prefertted before the time
aforefaid, with the certificates, or other do
cuments in support thereof, and to raufe a
record to be made of the names of tlie pet
fons, arid of the time'wheii the fi\d claims are
prefentcd; which recordfhaU be made in the
presence of the person or perfonsprefenting
tJieJamf, and fhail be the only evidence that
the said claims were presented, during the
time limited by this act.
And be it further enadted, That it (hall be
the duty of 1 the accounting officers of the trea
fiirv, to make report to ConErel's, upon all
such of.the said claim?, as fliall not be allowed
to be valid, according to the usual forms of
the treasury.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
(j the Heuft-of Reprejentatives.
]OHN ADAMS, Vkl-Phfuiit<t of'th
United State!) and President of the Senate.
Al'fltOVEO, FEBRUARY 1!?, 17P3.
GEO. WASHINGTON,
President of the United States.
'
AN ACT fupp.lementaiy to the ast
for the establishment and fupporc
of Light-houses, Beacons, Buoys,
and Public Piers'.
BE it enacted by;the Senate and Ilou'e of
ft«prefentatives of the United States of
America, in Congress aflembled, Thar all ex
penses, which {Hall accrue from the firft day
of July next inclusively, for the necelfary sup
port,. maintenance and repairs of all light*
houses, beacons, buoys, the ftakeage of chan
nels on the sea-coast; and public piers, lhall
continue to tie-defrayed by the United States,
until the firft day of July, in the year one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-four, not
-.vithtlanding such ligbt-houfes, beacons, or
public piers, with the land; and tenements
thereunto belonging, and the jurifdi&ion of
the fame (hall not, in the mean time, be ceded
to, or vested in the United States,- by the state
in which the fame may
be : and that the laid time, be further allowed
to the states refpeftivelv, to make fuchcefiion. I
And be it farther enacted, That the Secre. j
tary of the Treasury be authorized and di
rected to cause a floating beacon or buoy to
be proridedand placed on Smith's Point shoal,
in the Chesapeake bay, and a beacon or float
ing buov, at the south weft ftiaddle on the
royal lhoal, near Ocracoke inlet, in North-
Carolina.
JONATHAN TRUMBULL, Speaker
of the Ho-jJe of Reprefentatrvti.
JOHN LANGDON, Prtjilevt pro
tempore vl tke Senate.
AMIOV ID MARCH 2, 179.1-
GEO. WASHINGTON,
frejiderf of the United States.
[Whole No. 41 7.]
Foreign Intelligence.
CONSTANTINOPLE, December 25.
THE Porte has sent orders to the HoJpo
dars of Moldavia and WaMachia, to re
ce.ve tha Ruffian ambaiiador who is expect
ed here iu February, with the most diftiij
gu jibed marks of honor and refpc/t. The
reports which have been spread in Europe
that the Porte was making preparations of
war againfl: Russia, are without -foundation.
The people in general detest France.
STOCKHOLM, Feb. i.
A war between this country and Russia haS
long keen deemed probable, it now appears
inevitable.
The tiding-; of the tragical end of his most
Christian Majesty, has filled every mind with
horror and dismay. The court is etfpe&ed
to go into mourning for fix weeks like that
of Copenhagen.
L E G H O Kh N, Jan. ju
The Grarttf Doke has sent art to
Vienna with irttelligence which has been re
ceived here by private letters, that the
Frenclt are in poffeifion of the iflaud of Sar-
dinia.
M A D K I p, Feb. 7.
Ottr armament which was at firft to co> fift
of twenty-one (hips, has been encreafsd, and
ordets have been given to have every thing
in readineft to arm the wliole Spanilh'navy.
The Portuguese fleet which was only to
have confided of fix feilf, is also ericreafect co
fen iail of the line.
H AG t El, Feb. 24:
Nimeguen is still fafe from hostile attatk,
and its garrison has been reinforced by 2000
men. Great preparations are alio making
for the defence of Gorinchein, and all the
trees have been feHed round thar place and
on the roads; on the itiet adjacent, a batte
ry lias been raiffedj a*id a'latge'dvke ereffe' 1 ,
so that no veflel can attack tire town fVom
tl^itquarter. Ail the Surrounding diflrifU
are laid under water.
THe French are (Fill'marching in large bo
dies ft-onl Antwerp againlt this country, and
their nurrteroas licrfts* are' fbHfrwed by la'rge
trains-os artillery.
The French privateers I havS taken' the
Culloden, from Leith,. and carried her into
Boulogne; ILkewife- the- Fly,' Capr. Wright,
from Exeter to Lotidon ; and at Oftend,, the
F"a4»otiHttej C»ptl LSfrfiWfrtj ftonr lre^rorn.
All the French are batiifted from SAkony.
The 1 atefl accounts from Constantinople
state, that the Porte gave to M. de Choifeul
Goufiier, the late French AmbafTador, a pre
sent of lo;ooD' piastres, previous to his de
parture.
It is confidently reported there, that the
credentials of Serrtonv4lle will be accepted.
His royal higtnefs the Duke of York ar
rived here late on Thursday night; His
highftefs immediately took up his quarters in
the palace of the StadtlVoldSr.
The Englifti guards •arrived fafety at* Hil
voet on the ift inft. The onVy accident that
happened amongst thtm was one man's break-!
king his arm by a fall. They are Rationed
at Helvoet, at the Brille, and at Dort. Six.
teen hundred are at the latter place-
This hereditary priwce'of Orange is named
commander in chief.
Feb. 25—Their high mightinefles have
iflued a proclamation for public prayers, to
begin on Wednesday the 27th inft. and to be
continued for a fortnight, to implore the
bleflihg of Almighty God on the Dutch a'ms,
and those of her allies, against the French.
March 4. —Oh the 25th ult; Breda was far 1 -
rendered by treachery, withont having flood
a siege. The garrison, by terms of capitular
tion, marched out with all the honors of war,
and with full liberty to serve again. It was
surrendered in consequence of a confederacy
between Count Byland, the governor, and
some discontented magistrates and other in*
habitants, and much against the inclination
of the garrison. Count Byland is at the
Hague, under arrest, and a commission is or
dered for trying him.
Williamftadt, Klundert, Steenbevgen, Ge*
truydenberg, and - Maeftricht, are all vigo
ronflv besieged, but hold out with determi
ned resolution. Before the firll place, many
French hare fAllen, without the l'malleft inv
preffion having been made upon the fdrtrel's.
The state of defence by water • is ftrengtfr
ened every day.
General Clairfayt eroded the Coer, and on
the iftinft. attacked the French army, un
der Gen. Miranda, which he defeated, kil
ling and taking 2000 men, with nine pieces
of artillery. It was understood that he w»s
to detach 5000 men to prince Frederick of
l'ruffia, who was about to make an immedi
ate attack upon Rurerneode—ard Clnirfavt
himfelf was preparinj to inarch to tfcc relief
of Micftricht.fc R,£ D A, Feb. 25
"Last Saturday, the 2gd ioft. about Viaif af
ter eight o'clock* a trumpeter, accompanied
by a French"officer, arrived bcfoie tie gates
of Bosch, and were conducted t » thr com
mandant, whom they Summoned in the rame
of General Oumourier, to lurrender Ui»" c.tv.
The commandant feftt an answer auolit i 2
o'clock, implying »' refute' , hoftihties com
mence! about half after 3 o'clock; t' ,e
i'rtnth threw fi»:Ue bomb*» and howitzers into
the city >' the firft was so well directed, thiit
it icll before tbe guatd-houfe, and wounded
a grenadier. By tiie fabftquent bomb* feve
rul hoafes were damaged ; the alarm was
immediately bent, and the military took
their refpeetive stations. From that time
the bombardment became very violent, and
failed uniiiteri\if»tedly till feveu o'clock at
ui&hl, when all was still for some time.
Oil Sunday morqing, about Imlf pad three
o'clock, the French bombardment became
extremely violent, and was well answered by
the ga» rifon. It laftcd till seven oVlock, and
during that time the French threw in 150
bombs and howitzers, which -Jemoliftied more
than sixty bouse .
The damage itill bi\ve become
greater, and could not pofftbly be repaired,
iince no perjton dorft appear in the dree ft to
catch the bombs and extinjttjifli tire fire, and
every inhabitant fought refuge in the cellar
of his houle.
On Sundav, towards noon, another fiaff
officer with a trumpeter, arrived before the
gate of Bofcli, and was again conducted to
the commandant, to fuwrnon the city again,
threatening to reduce the place to a(h<*», and
to'put tiie whole garrison to the IVord. Af
ter this, the firft council of war was held, and
towards night a Major with a trumpeter were
dispatched to the French General, who re
mained with the French all night and did not
return till Monday morning, when we heard
shut the capitulation was made.
We were, then informed, that the garrMbn
should inarch out with all the honors of war,
each battalion with two field pieces, toßofch,
Tbiil, Bommel, and Utrec'.n, with perfect li
berty to remain in the service of the State,
and to fight against any enemy.
)n virtue of this capitulation, this after
noon about four o'clock the battalion of
Orange-Naflau, with a part of that of Dam,
Inarched, drums beating, colours flying, and
two field pieces, through the gates of Bo ch.
At three o'clock about 45) men, infantry
and Cuirafliers, entered this place from the
French Camp.
Fortunately few lives have been loft. One
Burgher was killed by a bomb, and an Apo
thecary's wife dangerously wounded. The
garrison have not loft a single man. What
number the French have loft we cannot tell.
AIX LA-CHAPELLE, Feb. 9
We are informed that the French
advanced ports, after an obstinate
eonflicft, forced the Auftriansto eva
cuate Weflenberg, Bergeln, and Ef
felt. The day before yesterday the
French troops took polfeiliou of the
villages of Vaels, Gulpen, and Herl,
in Dutch Guelderland.
FRANKFORT, Feb. 15,
The two brothers of his late moll
Christian Majelty, have sent official
notice of their brother's death to all
the Courts in Europe. They have
proclaimed the Dauphin King of
France, under the title of Louis
XVII —Count He Provence is de
clared Regent of the Kingdom ;
and Count d'Artois, Lieutenant Ge
neral. The Regent has sent Col.
Von Roll to be Ambadador at th,e
head-quarters of his Pruflian Majes
ty. The King of Prussia has alrea
dy acknowledged the new King,the
Regent, and the Lieutenant Gene
ral of France.
t'eb. 27. The fortrefs of Koenig
flein is 011 the eve of furrenderiiig
to the Priilliaiis. The garrison is
reduced by famine to the moil dread
ful extremity.
Cuftine, at Mentz, isalfo reduced
to the lall extremity ; and there is
reason to suppose that he will very
shortly makf overtures to the Pruf
fi.ms for Capitulation, or for j;er
iTiiflion to retire into France.
Great numbers of the French frotn
Meniz are daily deferring ; and up
on their arrival in the Pruflian
Camp, they are enrolled and regi
mented. The knowledge of this
circum fiance brings numbers of
theni in daily.
AMSTERDAM, Feb. 20,
Several couriers have been dif-
patched from hence to Maeltricht,
i>ut they are sll returned, that city
being completely blocked up by
French detachments.
A general embargo has been laid
on all ships and veliels, with the ex-
ception of those of the East and
' Weft India companies, the fliips des
tined for the fifheries of Greenland,
and Davis's ftreights, and thecoaft
ers of a particular description.
PARIS, February 21
The evecutive power has demand
ed of the government of Venice—
ift, That it shall acknowledge - the
French Republic—2<lly, That it
lliall permit a freepai'iige for French
vellelsinthe Adriatick Sea—jdly,
Grain—And 4ihly, an account of
the French citizens that have dis
appeared there. The government
have anfvvered to the firft, That
it will acknowledge the Republic
when it Jball have eltablifhed itl'elf.
and be acknowledged by rlie other
power's. Ihefet
have refufed, ant'
answer, that the
inent concerns its .-.ore :>;• ;r
the French citiz«ns at Venice, tnan
the French government does about
the Venetians at Paris
These answers are considered as
a declaration of war.
The government of Venice are
alio preparing to join the allies a
gainlt France.
Petion lias been erased from the
lilt of the members of the Jacobin
Club.
Baron de Stael, charged by the
court of Sweden to acknowledge
the French Republic, has reached
this metropolis.
The day before yesterday, Gen.
Santerre denounced in t he commons,
several of the Setftions which still
persisted in keeping up companies
of grenadiers, not withftandiiifr this
di(iin<stion was contrary to theVeign
of equality.
Clery, the faithful valet of the
unfortunate Louis, has been permit
ted at last to quit the Temple, in
which he has been kept impnfoned
since the late catastrophe.
Marie Antoniette and her family
have not yet stirred out of a -
partment which they occupy in the
Temple. The day before yesterday
the Comfuiflioners of the Cotnnune
invited them to go down into the
garden to take the air, and te enjoy
the benefit of the fine' wtather.
The widow of Louis thanked them,
and refufed their offer, faying, that
" 'twould be too painful for her to
pass by the do-or of the chamber
from which her husband had been
led to the place of execution." She
also refufed to go up on tlie plat
form of the great tower, at leaftfor
the prefeut.—Her daughter conti
nues to be ill, the swelling in her
legs is not abated.
The sections of Paris havesilmon:
raised tjie contingent of 2,806 men,
who are to go to the frontiers to
fight the enemies.
Three hundred and forty-feven
volumes, and 3$ boxes; forming the
remainder of the titles and genea
logies of the ancient orders of No
bility, are to be burnt to morrow in
the Place des Piques.
NATIONAL CONVENTION
Saturday, February 23.
The ;war niinifter announced a
vitfory of confidtrable importance,
gained by the army of general Bi
ron, over a body of AuftdanS and
Piedmontefe, at Sofpello.
In an address from tfae Municipa
lity read by. the Mayor, the follow
ing remarkabie fentcnce appeared
—" We mud encourage the poor
with the hopes of becoming propri
etors. But such an hope can only
be founded upon an Agrarian Law."
Thursday, Feb. 28
The Capitulation of Breda was
signed on the 24th, and citizen Cuf
ter is appointed temporary com
mandant, with a garrilon of two
battalions.
Gen. Harville has dislodged the
Aultrian Gen. Beanlien, after a ter
rible aiflion, from the pod of l'Ar-
rache
The Convention, on the report
of the com,mi!«es of .com
merce, and diplomacy, decreed,
that the treaties of alliance and
commerce, with the powers aiSually
at war with the Republic, are an
nulled."
The inveflment of Maeftricht by
iß,o®o men being completed, and
the works (inilhed 011 the 23d, the
general sent a trumpet to summon
the commandant to surrender the
place. He answered that' he did
not know that France was at war
with Holland, and that he mutt have
time to fend a courier to the Hnsue.
C 9
378
The batteries were then opened
against the plau;, and a fire was
Teen in the city. The besieged had
the good fortune to eJctinguifh it,
but ft had again been let 011 fire at
the time the last letter was written.
The grand army of the French
is llill Rationed at Rureinond and
its vicinity, and is in great force,
supposed to be from 601070,000 men.
In the infiirretftion which took
place in Paris la(t week, the inilita
r were called out, and a number
o' persons, chiefly women, were
idered. This we believe to be
o y the prelude to a general inaf
jacre.—'The (hops of the grocers
were pillaged.
Marat has been denounced in the
convention as the inrtigator of this
infurrecftion.
UfiTi, *
That France is in a Hate of war
with Spain, is certainly no new in
telligence, for we ltated some days
ago, that Spain had formally de
clared war againtt the French re
public.
Our ftiips of War have been un
commonly fuccefsful again(t the
French. It is supposed that the
French property brought into Bri
tifti ports already, amounts to near
200,0c01. while onthe contrary,that
of ours taken by the French wiil
scarcely exceed a tenth part of that
sum.
The health of the Duke of Brunf
wick is completely restored ; on
the 3d of February he appeared for
the firft time on horfeback,and rode
to Manlieim.
Monday the Convention between
Great-Britain and Spain, refpedting
the Nootka Sound business, was lign
ed by Sir Ralph Woodford, and M.
Las Heras. The Court of Spain,
besides restoring the vessels, pays an
indemnity of two hundred and ten
tlioufand dollars.
The text of the Bishop of Exeter
last Spnday, in the Chapel Royal,
was, " But now hath God set the
members every one in a body, as it
hath pleased liiin."—We do uot
know whether the Chancellor ot
the Exchequer dilated this admira
ble text, or attended at the sermon.
Of the prucefs now pending in
the high Court of Parliament it is
only neceflary to observe, that thro'
the means of deaths, defceins, and
creations, no less than 121 changes
had taken place in the members of
a Court of Justice, during a ciimi
nal trial.
Mr. Dundas, it is said, has sent
his compliments to MefTrs. Stormont
and Burke, the " Rival candidates"
for his place, he begs to fay, that
he wishes them very well, but that
for his own part, he is " very well
as he is !"
It mud be some confutation to the
friends of Bri'tifh Liberty that Mr.
Fox publilhed his letter to the elec
tors of Weftminller, and thatapro
teft againll the conduct which has
involved this country in a war as
little necert'ary as it is highly dan
gerous, was entered on the Jour
nals of the House of Lords, previous
to the commencement of hostilities.
These will be records to which the
public may appeal, when the war,
whether victorious or the contrary,
is felt to be as ruinous in its conse
quences as impolitic in its principle.
Feb. 22. A proclamation is pub
lilhed by the King, reciting, that as
attempts may be made to feduceour
sailors on board of French (hips, it
is therefore necefliary to notify and
declare, that sailors fervingon board
enemies (hips, or otherwise adher
ing or giving aid or comfort to our
enemies upon the sea, will be consi
dered guilty of high treason and
piracy, and puniflied accordingly.
We congratulate the public on an
event that is likely to take place,
which will be of considerable ad van
tage to this country : A number of
the Friends to Liberty, Equally,
and French Government, have come
to the patriotic refolutiun of with
drawing theinfelves from a nation
so inimical to the pi inciples of this ;
it Differing a man to reside in it un
der the title of KING—We wish
them to be as expeditious as possible
in their motions, for this country
certainly (lands in need of that kind
of reform, which such reformers
LONDON, Feb. 14
alone can efiWluall, Iwing ib„ ut | ■
taking ihemfelve, f rom , , ■
wains a little weeding,
Whitehall, Feb 28
The King has been pleafedtocon
Uitute and appoint Sir John 1 emple
bart. to be hii uiujell) , couful
ueral in the eaiteni llutei of
rica.
The King has also been
rocotifliuitc and appoint PUi, ira
Bond, Elq. to be Ins inajelty', tw
ful general in the u.idUle and f ou ,i
ern Hates of America.
HOUSE OK COMMONS.
t.
Mr. Dnn-las laid U-foreihe Hou(
the following melfage from ih
king :
" His majefiy having judged i
expedient to employ in the fetvic
of Great-Britain a body nftheelei
toral troops, for the porpofe of a
rifling his niajefty's allies the State
General of the United Province!
and of profecuiing in the ntoft efl'ct
tual manner the jufl and neceflar
War in which his majelly is eugaj
ed, his majelty has ordered an ell,
mate to be laid before the House o
Commons, of the charge atteudin
the employment of the said troops
and his majefiy relies on the ze;
of his most faithful Commons, tha
they will be ready to make the n<
ceflary provision for inaintainin
th* fame."
Referred to the committeeoffui
ply.
March 2.
The message delivered to bot
houses of Parliament from his M;
jefty yesterday, for taking into tl
pay of Great-Britain a body ofHai
overian troops, will be taken ini
confideratioti this day.
The numerous bounties given i
every part of the country, provetl
zeal of all descriptions of men
is efl'ential rhat that zeal (honld ni
relax, whiKt the French bear tl
smallest weight in the scale of Ei
rope.
An instrument, publifbed in tl
nauie of the Stadthoider, relati'
to i he inundations, denounces co
poral punifliment, and even pain i
death, against any persons oppofit
them, either by covert a«fl, vvriiit
or discourse.
By the French papers it appear
that Dumourier, in a letter datt
the 26th, to the commiffiouers
Brnflels, and transmitted by the
to the Convention, announces, th
Klundert was taken by the Freiu
on the night of the 2Jth, that Wi
liamftadt was to be attacked on tl
following night, and he had 1
doubt of taking it.
Subjlaticc of Dumourier'! Prcdtmah.
to the Dutch.
Upon republican principles, tl
Stadtholder is only your captaing
neral ; who fliould atfiin obedient
to the sovereign will —be holds yc
nevertHelefa in slavery.
You know your lights—you lati
ly attempted to restore them—yc
applied to France, but Fiance the
groaned under equal • despotism
and you were made the ("port of 1»
perfidious court.
A handful of Prussians again r
duced you to slavery ; led on
that man whom I have chafed no
France—the hope of liberty anion
yon has been extinct, till thp penc
of the glorioup revolution oft r ani
—the Krench now offer themleH'
your allies—powerful and free.
Not again(t you, people, but
gaiuft your tyrants we wage »»ar-
The English—proud of liberty, a.
stifled by gold and *** of w 'ho
they will soon tire. Let oU . r . e L
mies increase ten fold, it "ill
•increase onr strength and propaga
our opinions. . ,
We enter Holland the friends >
the Dutch, and the enemies of j
house of Orange—you cannot >
feel its galling yoke —has not '
Stadtholder faCrificed your intei e
to his own — f'acrificed yont "isf
time greatness to that of E"? an(
that greatness you will never l e S a
till you are free. _
Send back your despots to
many ; a republican army 0,1
roused will soon break the olce
tyranny —soon will the troops a'the brave Tailors of Holla nd be one
body of men with France.
The firft who (land forward ill all
enjov the firft spoils of tyranny !
I am at the head of 60,000 free
and ever vittorious Frenchmen—
60,000 more, the defenders of Bra
bant, are ready to follow me if
Heedful —We go to seek at the
Hague the plotters against our and
your liberties—for them we reserve
our vengeance.
Batavians, confide in a man whose
name is known to you—who leads
Frenchmen to battle, before whom
have fled the auxiliaries of your ty
rant. ,Tb? Belgians call me their
deliverer, I will speedily be yours !
DUMOURIER.
DUTCH MANIFESTO
In anfwerto Dumourier's proclama
tion, a manifefto has been pub
lilhed, which confutes, and at the
fame time treats with contempt
that idle gasconade, as well as the
obicure faction called the Batavi
an Committee, to which it is more
immediately addrefl'ed, —it con
cludes thus :
WE rather expect that all citi
zens, laying aside any parry spirit
which disunites them, will unite
their efforts to ours and to those of
all the true friends of his country,
to defend and preserve, under Di
vine protection, the territory which
has given them birth, and in which
they have been bred—that they
will snatch religion and true liber
ty, those guarantees of our h.appi
nefs, from the insupportable yoke
of foreign and barbarous hordes.—
We expert every thing from their
courage and bravery ; and we are
persuaded that they will not fuffer
thenvfelves to be intimidated by the
exaggerated ilatement of the forces
which are represented as advancing
against them. We persuade our
selves, that they will neither for
get the invincible valour with which
pur immortal ancestors refilled fuc
cefsfully these very Frenchmen, at
a time when the greatest powers in
Europe did not, as at this day, com
bat with us, but on the other hand,
■were leagued with our enemies ; —
nor the lituation of our country,
which more especially in this fca
fon, op.poses unfurmountable obtta
cles to an hoftije invasion ; no, the
diligence and energetic of
the government, which will neglect
nothing to secure the fuccefies of
our 'common efforts ; nor, lastly,
the efficacious succours weeexpertc r t
in a little time from our faithful
allies. If after so many important
considerations, they may still need
a motive to confirm them in their
resolution to facrifice every thing
to the defentre of their dear coun
try, we will place before their
view the example of our neighbors
the inhabitants of the Austrian Ne
therlands, who have called on and
welcomed as friends, the very ge
neral who dares to call himfelf their
deliverer, and those very French
men he commands ; those Belgians
now reap the bitterest fruit of their
heedless credulity.
Deign, thou Supreme, and All
puifl'ant Being, who haft lo often
extricated this republic from the
1110 ft imminent dangers—deign to
preserve it at this day from such a
deliverance, and from such friends.
Caution to Ladies.
Lady Elizabeth Pratt has kept her
bed this fortnight, from the dread
ful accident fbe met with by burn
ing her handkerchief and head
diefs. She was alone when it hap
pened, and had the presence of
mind to endeavor to roll herfelf in
the carpet, which unfortunately was
nailed to ihe floor. Her cries, on
the discovery of this, brought Mr.
Stewart to her aififtance, who imme
diately pulled off his coat, threw it
round her, and extinguiflied the
flame. Her ladyship is attended by
Dr. Karqubar, whose method ofcure
is a very limple one, namely, the
application of ice, which e*trai!is
lite fire, without leaving any fear
after the part affctfted is healed.
An industrious exhibiter of rari
ties, commonly called a fhew-maii,
is now tr?velling round the coun
try with Mr. Burke's dagger,which
he difplavs to the curious at a pen
ny a head.
Philadelphia, April 27.
ABSTRACT OF FOREIGN NEWS,
A body of Frcnc!) troops have taksn by
furpi"ife,C.ul{bu> g, the re fide nee of the Dtfke
of Deux Pouts—the Duke with his family had
a narrow escape.
The Pope it is said has written a peniten
tial letter to the National Convention—ex
prefling his for row for the murder of M-
Bafleville, and acknowledging in fawning and
abject terms the French republic.
:YL de Burgoing the French Ambaflador at
Madrid has not been received at that Court
since the death of the King of France; the
Leyden Gazette fays he was to have been ar
retted, but found means to escape. Tfce
Duke dp Ci*illen is to have the command *f
the Spanish army—lt is said there is a scarci
ty of bread in Paris—great uneasiness is ap
prehended in consequence. The Conventio/i
of France has decreed that all the ports off
the French colonies should be open to tVie
vefiels of the United States of America, pay
ing duties as French veflcls.—The deputa
tion from the French Weft-India Illands now
in England, have received, it is said, an an
fwerfrom the Britifti government-—and that
the French Iftands as offered by the deputies,
will be accepted by the Englilh.
P-rofecutions abound in England of persons
who pnblifti or vend seditious writings—se
veral booksellers have been severally fined
for felling " Paine's Rights ot Man ; and
some, it is said, for only exprefling an appro
bation of the sentiments it contains.
The French it appears, have a fleet ps nine
teen fail of the line in the Mediterranean —
Two French prizes captured by two Britiih
(hips of War are eft i mated to be worth 70,000]
—-Eight thousand Hanoverian troops are to
march into Holland. It is reported that the
Grand Senior is dead, and that his successor
15 going to renew the war ag'ainft Ruflia.—
A Mr. Butler and Mr. Bond —who had signed
a publication reflecting on the committee of
the House of' Lords in Ireland-— as Chairman
and Secretary to the Society of United Irifti
men—have been condemned to 6 months im
prisonment, and 500 pounds penalty each for
their offence.—Lord Barry more of the Oueens
Regiment—was lately killed by a fll zee which
went of accidentally as he flopped into a car
riage with the gun in hW hand.
The field pieces belonging to the different
volunteer corps in Dublin have been lately
seized by the military and lodged in the go
vernment arsenal.
English papers of the 9th of March contain
the King's proclamation tor a general Fail.
The Prussian army was at Vcnlo and Clcves
in February, and part of the French at St. Mi
chael, opposite, and at no great distance ; an en
gagement was hourly expe&ed.
The fortification of Choczim Has been evacu
ated by the Auftrians, and polTcffion given to
the Turks.
The cfty of Hamburgh being tliie.ittncd by
the King of Pruflia with having 5000 nim quar
tered in ii, in cafe they do not fend away the
French cmiffaries who were purchasing fupplics
there, the m;igiftiMtes complied with the requi
sition, and ifTued orders accordingly.
The French national gaaid in Paris has been
new organized, and a new commandant ap-
pointed.
• The new French Conftiiution has been report
ed by the committee appointed to draft the fame.
It contains a bill of rights. The Lrgiflature is
to confitt of one House of Representatives, to be
ele6led annually ; the Executive, of seven princi
pal officers, each to a£t as Prcfident alternately,
for fourteen days. A new convention to be
called in twenty years, to revise and improve the
Conflitutioa. The army to be under the c.on
troul of the executive. The punifhmtnt of
death for all private offences to be abolished,
and all foreign conquests renounced.
The city of Lyons is icported to be in a state
of infurre&ion.
Four ships were carried into L'Orient,
one supposed to be an Eaft-Indiaman.
The British frigate, the Juno, has captured fix
prizes, rwo of them said to be valuable.
The French are making ihe mod aflive pre
parations to equip a fleet equal to the English.
50,000 seamen are ordered to Brest. A letter
from Havre-de*Grace fays, that men are as plenty
as aflignats. M. Dcflotte, the FienchConful at
Rome, who escaped when M was
murdered by the mob of that city, is arrived ac
Paris ; he gave an account to the Convention of
the murder of two more Frenchmen, and de
mandfd vcngeance againlt the Pope and bis
fubje&s.
Mobilities against the Dutch on the part of
the Algerines, were to coramcncc the 13th Fe
bruary.
The new Constitution of France was ordered
ti» be printed and lent to all (be Departments.
When the Conftilution was reported, a member
reminded the Convention that they had decrced
t>W their aflembly (hoold be diffolvrd the mo
ment that the committee had prefentcd their
plan of a Conftilution ; he demanded an imme
diate execution of that law. The Convention
pafied to the order of the day.
The new Conilitutioa do < not meet the ap
probation of all parties ; the J»Cobttil in parti
cular are dilTattsfied with it. It is appnne4-
howeyer, if is fatd, by the great mals of tfcf
citizens ol Pins.
The followingjielch of the D*Utt< nr the Jacotin
Club, Feb. 2iJ), unit ilUftrati the furtgting.
Anthoine said, it ">vas a mafter.pieciof am
fenfe and treachery. Couthon complained,
that a dear exposition of the natural rights of
man was not to be found in it.—The principle
of resistance to oppression was exprefled in an
absurd, and a'moft unintelligible manner—
The theory of ele&ion was too complicared,
and favoved the intrigues of the rich. Above
all, he found it ridiculous to indicate a legal
manner of refilling ; as if, said he.
when an aififfin U to be got rid of, time migkt
to be allowed him to confumraaK hi* gu>l:y
defigis.
379
The society eame to the Following relblu
tvotts. That they con fide red the plan of" the
jCSnftit\itior» as a public calamity, and would
ilake incetfan t eSorts toprevent the adoption
it by the people.
Tie society also took into consideration the
means ofpunifhing such deputies as had vo
ted againfi the execution of the Jate King.
Tho' there appears to be an extraordinary
unanimity of the people ot England tor f»p-
the measures of government, vet forne
petitions against the war have been brought for
ward ; and the object of a parliamentary reform
>i l)y no means lolt fight of.
The House of Commons of Great-Bri
tain have agreed to a grant of 437,837!.
is.rjid. for. a% additional number of men
-for the land service ; 139,9001. for the
: 103 independent companies; 32,0001. far
( 285,428!. Js* 6a* South-Britain
**<ilt«»f»45,oool. broad money, and 15,639!.
, 55. lid. tin: Weft-Indies——all this is an over
pi n". of the forine t eftabiifhment.
SAYS A CORdESrONDENT,
A cursory view of foreign intelligence will
serve to shew that the (pint of fa)(hood and
nnfreprefcotation was never more alert than at
the present day. Not to advert to palpable con
tradictions in the European prints, it is evident,
from the greatest part of the paragraphs relative
to the Belligereut powers, that the writers anti
cipate events agreeably to their wishes, and in
inanyinftances palm them on the public for fa&s.
—The public is frequently cautioned to be on
its gnard against the mifrepreftmations of
French affairs in the Engli(h papers—but it is
evident that there are Britiih publications as
much-in the interest of Franco as any publifbed
:n Paris—the partizans on both fides no doubt
aregjilty of great exaggerations—but is it aU&
that truth has fled from the earth, and that not
one fjjlitary printer can be found who finds it
for h is inteteft to pubhfh a just reprefentauon of
tS: hnpoitant tranfa&ions now pafiitig on the
European theatre ?
In afligning rcafons for the war wich France,
an Enghlh paper fay?'— u It is the cause ot hu
man nature we are engaged to support; of a
conilitution which our an:eftors cemented with
their blood, which is the source of our pride,
and the foundation of our happmefs againfta (yf
tem of innovation which has swept before it,
like an overwhelming torrent, the sacred infti
tuiions of antiquity, the pure consolations of re
ligion, the duties of domestic life, and the obli
gations between man and man. In ancient
limes war was conduced with dignified feroci
ty ; among the moderns it has been carried on
with fcieniific (kill: the recent hollilities of the
French have been ferocious without dignity,
and fcientific without humanity ; and if we
meet their forces with fucb accumulated horrors,
we have still the cotnfoit of refle&ing, that to ab
stain from war is impoflible, and to doubt of
success would be impious.*'
ExtraS oj a letter from an Amoican Gentleman at
"nantz, feb. 3 An embargo is laid up
on alt veflels here, except American and Spa-
The greater part of the powers oi* Eu
rope are hostile to France, but she will tri
umph over them all. England will pay dear
ly for her folly in this war. Be allured the
resources ot France are inexhaustible. The
greater the danger, the less will be their di-
vision.
" All Europe is aftoniihed to lee with
u>hat rapidity they go on. t verity .believe
•thejfwilj make'a descent in England, in the
course of the Spring, with6o, or*Bo,ooO men :
,«-Ti> raise such an army, is but an affair of 3
or 4 weeks; for men are as plenty as al'-
figuats."
Tbis day., and Monday, the Cnmmiffioners'
.. for hoidittft-a Treaty with the hostile Indians
will leave this city, on their route to the Indian
country.
1; We hear the time fixed for holding the Treaty
is ibe firft of June next.
COMMU NICATIO N S.
It is not without example to find porfons who
like ihe treason, and vet despise the traitor.
Those who throw rotten eggs at a government,
may do a piece of fcrvtce to the public. But
.those who like to fee the government thus
adorned and peifumed, would be afhamcd to be
seen in the company of the men who funiifh
their amilfement. These Grub Greet writers
may fay> the world is not our friend, nor the
world Ylaw—and therefoie that dcfcription of
pcrfons very naturally, some will fay very justly,
make war upon both.
We are commanded to love our enemies.—
There are in cveiy country perions who find the
laws their worst rnemies—enemies, which infli£l
impnlonmcoi, fines and ftiipcs. This is too
much 10 be forgiven. It is cheaper, as well as
more honorable, to car*y on war with such per
sons, than to buy a peacp.
i What is public credit!—lt is the animating
. principle of public ejiertion—which, having
braced the nerves of indtuftry, and fist the
machine of general enterprize in motion is at
the present moment, the tenure on which
hundreds of tbouf.tnds of our fellow-citizens
JtoM the means of subsistence.
"Every attempt (and many are made) to
depreciate the public confidence in the honor
and faith of tbe government of this conntry
is a fti oke at the vital principle of our fecial
exiftencc.
It has been ca'led an in'ult to republicanism
for the free citizens of the United Statet to
cxprels their feelings on the fate of the un
fortunate King of France ; but the people
of this country know how to diftingnifc be
tween the principles of humanity and jullice,
and thole which cast a (hade on the tuft c.iufe
that mankind pollibly he engaged in—the
cause of Freedom—Americans will eternally
leprohate the crneltiei of arbitrary end dsf
potic po;ver, under whatever fanftisn they
maybe extrtiftd.
Nartiz.
TO THE PUBLIC
I AM adviled that it will be iluprnpcr, li.
the present cii eumllan< es, to bring before
VO4l the merits of my caule, on tire fubjeft of
the articleof Hrqjuwchuifnt v.'ltich you have
lately foenin the psjWic paprrs. I was jrttxiou -.
that an imreftigatfcmvf tfco!e charges IhnuM
have take*, place 'fc»fc»e the adjournment «»i"
the legifitture, tint jcflice i>>'~iit he done,
and vou be «eqnainted -vli-i. I't facts; and [
preifcd it with all tha r.irncitiicfs m ray pow
er. As the opportunity is liiit until another
feflion, all 1 have to retjueft is, thafrniv ft!
low-citizens would ftifpeiid t!'eir judgment
until I have ao opportunity tu !>e he.ird.
JOHN NICHOLSON.
FROM Till BALTIMORE DAILY R £ PO'S I T Q K Y
Revenue Cutter AS/(ve t April 22, 1793.
Mr. GraKam,
Plea(e to give the. following a place in your
ufeful paper, that the public may be bene
fited thereby, and that dangers may thfe
better be guarded a^ainft.
WE, the Officers of the United States
Cutter A&ive, did, on the ißth loft,
examine that dangerous CJuiter of R.ocks
which lie, in a true direction, half way be
tween North and Sparrow's Pointy and bear
from
North-Point,
Sparrow's do.
Bodkin do.
White Rocks, lying at
the Moothofßock- vN. N. E. J E.
Creek, 3
Major Jones's Hmife, ~ " " "
N. W. by W. £ W.
S. E. bv E. & E.
N. N. \V.
There is about 7 Rocks, fame of which are
riot more than 3 feet under water, and but a
small distance apart. The Shoal is round,
about the fi2e of half an acre, and has a hard
bottom.
That this dangefous placc rnav be the bet
ter avoided, we have fixed a long Spar on the
most dangerotrs font, wtth a red at the?
top, on which is the worj " Rocks," in large
white letters.
A", thcfe Rocks h.lve occafionpd many
heavy lo!Te«, the printers in the different fea
jports in the United States, are requcfted to
publifti the above, for the information of those
who may not be apprised of the danger.
DAVfD PORTER, Caffjin.
WILLIAM THOMAS, Mole.
A Dr. Gant, who had been committed to the
goal ol Baltimore, on suspicion of having rob
bed the Eastern Mail, has made his efcapo. A
generous reward will be paid tor apprehending
him.
The ship Industry, arrived at Norfolk, the
night before (he m«?dc the Capes, whilst running
at the rate of 9 knots an hour, (truck a Ichooner,
and from the dreadful cries of her people, and
from her disappearing immediately, it is sup
posed IVe must have lunk. The sKip received
such damage, as rendered it dangerous to put
her about.
The Indians, have made inctlrfions to Kana»
wha. couoty ; .taken two .negroes belonging u*
William Morris; a Col. Boone and another
person weie killed or taken.
Other accntNUS of murders and depredation's
by the Indians are publifh'd in some of the
southern papers; but the flat and pointed con
tradictions of these accounts, which so fre
quently fuccecd their publication, may well
beget a degree of incredulity till time (bail
ascertain what foundation they reft upon.
From the a&ive preparations that arc making,
it is anticipated that the Bridges over ihe Hack
infack and Pa (Tup will he ere&ed the ensuing
summer, and be pafTable next autumn. Mr.
Nottage, of Boflon, is arrived at Newark for
the purpose of directing these important under
takings. 4
A letter from Guarialoupe, dated April 3,
to a gentleman in New-York, fays, V The En
glifli colours are now flying 011 one corner of the
works at Martinique, and the white flag on the
other; the inhabitants having fubmittcd 10 the
Englrfh."
Died at Woodbury, G'oucefter county, New-
Jersey, on Sunday the 14th inDant, Mrs. Ann
Hunter, wife of th»» Rev. Andiew Hunirr, of
that place; auji on Tucfday following her re
mains weie attended by a large concourse of her
friends to the Presbyterian church, where, pre
viouflv to her interment, a sermon was/lelivered
by the Rev„ Dr. Afhbel Grren, from Psalm xc.
12. ii So teach us to number our days, that we
may apply our hearts unto wisdom." She hail
borne much affltftion with patience and resig
nation, and finally left the world with christian
confidence and composure.
(AUTHENTIC.)
PRICE CURRENT—American Produce,
Bristol, Feb. 16, 1793.
Pot-ashes, firft, 30*. Pearl-ashes, do. 325. 351.
Rice, short price, 18s. Indigo, Car. 25.3d. 5s 6d.
Pitch, Bs. Tar, i?s. Turpentine, Q&.6d. 10*.
Bees-wax, 91. 101. Deer (kins in the hair, per
pound, 17c!. 18J. Ditio half dreffrd, dito
22d. 2s. Pine boards and plank, per ico feet,
10s. 15s. O ik diito Juto, 14s. 16s. Staves, pipe,
red oak, 101. 10s. white oak, 161. 16s. hogfliead,
ditto, 51. ss. ditto 81. Bs. barrel,
ditto, 41. ditto 1 os.
Flour, firft, 18s. Pr C. Wheat, 6->-9H.
pig rron, 61. 71. Pr ton. Tobacco, t£«L 4d. Pr lb.
Letters for the Britijh Packet, will be re
ceived at the Post -Office in this city until Tuesday
nextj 12 o'clock.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at the PORT oj PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Sally, Weeks, Calcutta
Fahus, Kerr, Biiftol
Clothier, Gardner,
Btig Mcrcury, Gardner,
Fame, Kin^,
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Ccr.ts, i 7 yß
3 prr Crnu, g/io
Deferred, 10J6
Full lhares BanV V. S. 9<o 10 per cent. prem.
S. S. W. t W.
Hull (G. £.)
St. Crptx
Havannaht ROM TllE J) E LAW ARE GAZETTE.
CUM ingratum dixeris, tnniadixijli; that is,
tax a man with, ingratitude, and you accu/e
him of every Jpedes oj baseness : This ancient
maxim applies to nations as well as to indi
viduals. For what is a nation but an aggre
gate of moral agents, receiving its charac
ter from rhc'ir principles and conduct ?
Sorry should I be, Messrs. Printers, and
ashamed at the fame time, were I to con
ceive myfelf the citizen of a nation damped
with the infamy of this fruitfnl crime. But,
nntwithftanding the unconcern exprefled by
some, and the exultation by others, at tbe
late tragical event In France, 1 trust and be
lieve that the fentitrent of pity has greatly
prevailed throughout tbefe dates, and that
the fenty>ility of tbe sternest republicans a
mong us, has been Ihocked and affliQed at
the bloody deed.
Louts, fays Thomas Paine, is the befi friend
of the American people, who conjider themjelves as
indebted to him for their liberty. Shall Americans
be aihamed to profefs in their own lard of liberty
a sentiment thus hazarded in the face of the
Convention ? Forbid it decency* forbid it*
gratitude, forbid it humanity. Neither the
vicissitudes of human grandeur, nor the fluc
tuation of power and dignities, can obliterate
the remembrance of a benefactor, from a
generous mind. But least any ef our country
men fliould fufpeel the policy of Louis, to
wards America, of being felfifli and insidious',
the declarations of our Congress will proba
bly go as far to remove such suspicions, as
the hints of tl>e National Convention to esta
blish them. For my own part, lam so far an
American, as to glory in the persuasion, that
the men principally instrumental in our hap
py revolution, exhibited more political wis
dom, more public virtue, more humanity and
courage, than the world ever beheld on such
an occaiion, or is ever likely to behold again.
The hand cf God was with them and the na
tion ; for both profeffed to believe in, and
worship him—Hear how this illustrious band
£ patriots exprefled themselves in August,
1 u Tfye treaties between his inoft
li Christian Majesty and the United States of
41 America, so fufly demonstrate his wisdom
" and magnanimity, as to command the re
" verence of all nations. The virtuous ci
-44 tizens of* America in particular can never
u forget his beneficent attention to their violated
44 rights, uor cease to acknowledge the hand
u of a gracious Providence in railing them up
u so poweiful and illustrious a friend. This
44 AlTembly are convinced, that had it relied
44 solely with the moll Christian King, not
44 only the independence of these States would
44 have been universally acknowledged, but
44 their tranquility fully eftablilhed," Long in
Congress Augujl 6lh y 1778.
These and similar sentiments refpetting;
Louis XVI, are the iuft grounds of the great
pain, which the fans of freedom in America expe
rience on account of that unfortunate Mo
narch j and surely the profefling apostles of
human liberty, and the regeneration of na
ture, will not condemn one of the fineft senti
ments of the heart of Man, especially when
employed in commiserating the misfortunes
of a Prince, who, as Shakespeare fays of
Duncan^
44 Hath borne his faculties so meek, hath been
u So dear in his g) eat office, that his virtues
u Will plead like angels trumpet-tonou'd, againfi
li The deep damndtidn of his taking vjf ;
<l And pity like a naked, new born babe,
tc Striding the blajl, or Heaven*s cherub horjed
" Upon the silent coursers of the air,
48 • Shall blow the horrid deed in every eye."
Jttfl puiiijhtd,
By THOMAS DOBSON,
At the Stone Hmife, Ho. 41, South Second-Street,
A CASE,
Decided in the Supreme Court of the United
States, in which is difcufled the Question,
WHETHER A STATE IS LIABLE TO BE
SUED BY A PRIVATE CITIZEN OF
ANOTHER STATE >
Price Half a Dollar
TO THOSE CONCERNED IN MILLS IN
THE UNITED STATES.
OLIVER EVANS, late of the (late of Dela
ware, informs the public, that he has re
moved to Philadelphia, No 437, NorthStcond
ftreet, where he will thankfully receive any
applications for the use of his Pdtent Improve
ments on Mills, and the art of inariufafluring
Flour. He will furnifh those who arc not fuffi-
CK-n-.ly acquainted with the principles of his im
provements, With drawings and dcfcriptions,
that will enable them to crefl all the different
machines necefljiy to porform the operations of
cleaning, grinding, bouliing, and of boulting
over the middlings of coarse meal, and pnnding
it over with the giain, so as 10 finilh all together,
thereby making the grcati fl quantity of fupctfine
flour that the grain will produce at one opera
lion.—He has been at much cxpenfe in colleft
ingthe different and moll approved conllruftions
of mills and plans for boulting, and the quality,
size, and manner of drefling the mill-Hones, I'uit
able to the power of the mill, and quality of the
grain : and will afiill in planning mills from
the foundation, and make drawings thereof, if
required. He has for sale, Boulting Cloths and
Mill-Sldncs, of the tiift quality, at ihe lowed
prices, which he will warrant. If the ftortes
prove not good, they will be received again,
and the coll of carriage paid. Those who ap
ply !oi either stones or cloihs, will plrafc to
mention the power of the mill, size of the
boulting-icels, quality of the grain, and on what
business it is to ruu. Orders by port, or oilier
wife, will be as pun&ually attended to as if the
patties were present.
Philadelphia, April 13.
Morse's Geography,
Revijed, corrected, and greatly enlarged, with many
additional Maps, well engraved.
In a few weeks will be publifbed,
By THOMAS and ANDREWS, Faust's Statue,
No. 45, Newbury-Street, Bolton,
In J il'o ydu *tsj Urgi 03ai-*.
ANEW Edition of Ihe AMERICAN
GEOGRAPHY: BeiDj; the laigeH
and the bi ft fyftrm of Geography ever pub*
lifhed : Or a complete GEOGtt APHY of the
WORLD, biought down to the piefcut time.
IN TWOM »T*.
The General Contents are—
PART I. - Of Astronomy, as conncfled with,
and introductory lotbe fclence of Geography ;
under this head will be given an account of the
fevetal aftionomical fyftims of the World, itvjJ
a particular description of the true one. A table
of the diameters, periods, &c. of the (everal
Planets in the solar system—an account of the
Comets and fixed Oars.
Of Geography — its ufc and progress—,
figure, magnitude and motion of the Earth—
Do&riuc of the Sphere—Geographical circles—
Divisions of the Earth into zones and climates
—methods of finding the latitude and longitude
of placcs from celestial observations—Globes,
and iheir use—with a number of the moil ufe
ful and entertaining Geographical Problems and
Theorems— Maps, and iheir use—sources of heat
and cold—theory of the winds and tides —length
of miles in different countries—natural divisions
of the Earth—account of the Gregorian o*new
stile, See.
America—lts discovery by Columbus—
general description of the Continent, in which is
a lengthy difcuflion of the qucftion, When,
whence, and by whom, was America firft peo
pled ? With a iong and entertaining account of
the Indians,an<j the late discoveries on the north
west coast, Sez.—North America—chrono
logical account of its discovery and fettletnefcts, 1
its divisions—Dan Ish America, British
America, United States of America-—'
general description of them, including a history
of the late war, and many other ufeful and en
tertaining matters. South America—its di
visions, particular description of its several pro~
vinces and countries. West India Islands,
Sec.
%* This part of the work will be illustrated
by maps of the countnes defcrtbed, from the
corretteft copies.
PART ll.—Containing every thing eflenti?!
which is contained in the best and latcft quarto
edition of Guthrie's and other Briiifh Geogra
phies, with fele&ions from celebrated naviga
tors, travellers and iefpe£lable authors of other
nations, Sec.
Of Europe in general—its grand divisions,
particular geographical descriptions of its seve
ral Kingdoms and Republics, &c. Of Asia—
its situation, boundaries, general history, parti
cular descriptions of its several divisions, See.
Qf Africa —its general history, boundaries,
gfand divisions, See. Al(p, new discoveries,
Terra Incognita, Geographical Table, alphabe
tically arranged —Chronological Table of re
markable events, discOveries and inventions, lift
of meh of learning and genius, with other ufelul
miscellany.
This part will also be illustrated with
maps of the countries d'efcribed.
THE Author is sensible that the firft edition
of his American Geography (which makes Part
I. of the above wbrk) was in many instances dc
j fe£live, in others erroneous, and in forne offen
five. It has been his endeavour, as it was his
desire, in the present edition, to fupplv the defi
j ciencies, correal the errors, and meliorate the
offenfive parts of the last. To aflift him in this
business, he has received many valuable commu
nications from the heads of departments in the
genera! government, and from gentlemen of re
fpeftabihty in the several states. The defcrip
tioo of foreign countries (which composes Part
11. of the above wbrk) has been carefully com
piled from the most approved writers on Geo
graphy, and ufeful information introduced from
the discoveries of the latest Navigators, Travel
lers, and refpeftable authors. Indeed, no pains
nor expenfc have been spared to render this work
the mofl complete, accurate, and ufefulaoy
ever offered to the public.
District of Pen nsy 1 v ami a, to wit.
■ "RE 1T REMEMBERED, Thit on
I ( Seal. I AJ, the thirteenth day of M*reh, in
\ / the feventceoth year of the In<fep«n
---! dence of the United States of Atperica,
Thomas Dorson, of the faid.i)iftri£j, hath de
posited in this Office, the Tilie of the
Right whereof he claims as Proprietor, in the
words following, to wit.
" An Enquiry how Jar the Punjhmentof Death
" necessary in Pennfyhania. IV,tk Nftes and
" lllujlrations. By William Bradford, IJq.
" To which is added, an Account ofthe Gaol and
" Penitentiary Hon ft of Philadelphia, and of the
" interior Management thereof. By Caleb
*' Lownes, of Philadelphia. If IXC enquire
" into the Causes of all human Corruptions,'toe
" fhallfind that they proceed from the In p unity
" of Crimes, and not from the Moderation of Pu
" ni/hments." Montefq.
In conformity to the A£l of the Congress of
the United States, intituled, An Aa tor the
Encouragement of Learning, bv fecunnp the
Copies of Maps, Charts tnd Bacfct, to Ttie AtV
thors and Proprietors of such Copies, duriitg tfie :
Times therein mentioned."
SAMUEL CALDWELL,
Clerk of the Dillrifl of Pennsylvania
The . all ° vc is JM in Charleston by
Wi.liam Price Young : Richmond, by Archibald
Curr,e ; Baltimore, by Jamei Rice : New-York
by Thoma r Mien : Be/ton, by David Heft.
PLANS
City of Washington,
r»/i <.<■/,.? o ' d 1 ' I '' t!IC Boo^S£LLERS,
CAREY, \OUKG ) (3 CRUKSIJAXK,
iau'3 -AT
TO THE PUBLIC
OF THE
380
JUST rVSLISftID,
By Thomas Doblon,
Book[c!!?r, at the Stont~Houfe, in Second Jlrcct,
Philadelphia,
VOLUME VIII, or
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
or, A DICTIONARY OF ARTS, SCIENCES,
AND MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
On a Plan entirely new
BY WHICH
The Different SCIENCES and ARTS
arc digested into the Form of Diftintt,
TREATISES or SYSTEMS:
THIS VOLUME CONTAIN?
AN Arcouot of the Cape of Good Hope,
Grafting, iJniverfal Grammar, Graljes,
Greece, Greenland, Guam, Guinea, Gunnery,
Haupinefft, Harmony, Heat, Hepat\c-A»r, He
rald r y,Hindortan,Ht ppo polar* us, Hiftory,Ne w-
Holland, Horse, Horsemanship, Hottentots.,
Hunting, Husbandry, Hydrometer, with a great
variety of Biographical and Mifcellancous Arti
cles. Embellifhcd with sixteen Copperplates.
CONDITIONS.
I. The work is printing on a fuperfine paper,
and new types, (cast for the pu'pofe) which
will be occafionaUy renewed before they con-
tratt a worn appearance.
11. The work is furniihed in hoards, in volomes
or half>vo)umes, as subscribers chafe; the price
of the whole volumes, five dollars each, ot the
half-volumes two dollars and two-thirds of a
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on sub
scribing, the vplutnes or half-volumes finifhed
to be paid for when delivered, the price of one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each fucceedipg volume to be paid on deliver
ing ihe volume preceding it. No part of thf
work will be delivered unlefspaid for.
111. In tjie course oF the publication will bp de
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia: which by
far exceed in number ihofe given in any othej
t fcientific dictionary. At the close of the pub
lication wilt be delivered an elegant front if
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for the different volumes,
It isexpefted the work will be comprised in
i about eighteen volumes in quarto.
03* As fever al gentlemen who have honored this
undertaking with early fubfc? iptions, have only re
ceived a Jmall part of the work, they are earnejlly
requefled to complete their sets, as far as publifhcd,
immediately, while the publifhtr fiill has it in his
power to supply them with the parts which have not
been furnijhed. As the fubjeribtion will very pojfi
bjy be closed by tfftfirjl of July next, the publisher
cannot undertake to complete sets as ter thai pfriod ;
and thoje who wish to become pojjejfors of this triply
valuable and important work, will please appfy before
Die expiration oj that time, that they may not be, df
appointed.
the very heavy expei\ce necejfarily incurred in car
rying on this work, makes it indispensably reqvifte
for the pubhfher to adhere more ftriflly than \e has
done to the original condition, of delivering the, vo~
fumes only on being paid for them.
April 6, 1793,
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, Wall-street, Ne.w-Yqr^.
THESubfcriber intending to confine himfelf
entirely Jo the PURCH ASE & qe
STOCKS on COMMlSSlON,begsleaye to.of
fer his Cervices to his friends and others* inthe
line ofa Stock Broker. Those who may please
to favor Uim with their business, ipay depend
upon having it tranfafted with the otmoft fide
lity and, dispatch.
Orders frorri Philadelphia., Boftoi}, or any
other part of,the UjiifcedSiat.es, will be ftri£ily
attended to.
(t.f.)
LEONARD BLEECKER.
TO BE SOLD,
A noted covering Horse,
OF THE, HUNTING BREED.
HE was imported from England in Novem
ber, feventef n hundred and eighty-fix, and
is now ten years old ;heis a bright.bay, with a
blaze, fifteen hands one inch high, is well form'd,
a great deal of bpne and ftrmglh, and his
action equal to any horse. His colts are well
approved of in the djffejfnt parts of the Slate
where he has flood, of,which any person inclined
to purchase can inform theinfelvcj. Enquire
of the Printer.
February 18, 1793.
Post-Road
TO THE GENESEE COUNTRY.
THE public are hereby informed, that the
Pofl-R.oad from Philadelphia tp Reading,
is continued to Sunbury and Northumberland ;
thence up the \Vcft Branch of the Sufquehannah
as far as Licoming; thcnce to the Painted Post
(in New-York iUtc, near the foi ks of the Tioga)
thence to Bath fa town laid out on the Cohoffon
Branch of the Tioga) thence to Wilhamfburg,
at the forks of Genefee River.
Letters for this new route will be sent from
the Philadelphia Poft-Ofiice every Wedoefday
morning, at tight o'clock, with'the mail lor
Reading.
A weekly mail will al(o be carricd .frotn
to AyilfkcQmrre, ia the county Qf
' Central Pojl-Oficc, April 6. 1793.
ADVERTISEMENT.
WHEREAS a BRIDGE is to be built over
R*aritan River, at the city of New-Brunf
wick, in the state of N.ew-Jerfey— toaccomplifh
which, will require the service of many caroen
ters and masons of experience ; Notice is there
fore he.eby given, that any pcrfon of persons in
clining to undertake the whole, or any part there
°u' *PP'V in S to Ihe fubferibers, on or before
' n1 It day oI May next, may have an opportu
nity of contriving for ilie fame.
JOHN BAYARD,
JACOB HARDENBURGH
„ r■ 1 ■ • -' OHN DENKIS, Sen.
Sr::ifxeuk, \.arc/i 2 t
Vinail's Arithmetic.
THE Second Edition of ibis wiih.j n
provemeots, -will fpecdily be pm 10 p- t f,
The rapid fjjeol the fiift ed,uoi,», Rrcl ,i y b j
yond the author's most f..n S miie f«pra ll(om "
encourages htu to print a second edition. He
intends tp have i( pruned upon oiuch |,u,„ N
per than ttje former,*rjd with a.new t vpr .
Tbofe Bookleliers who with to i.ke a rum
}>er of copies in fheeis, are r.qucHtd io«pp| vl o
the author for particulars.
* JDPO Lopia.
At a meeting of the Sc nfipx iCbmnmtu
... -. L.
Fcbrgary 5 b.
Tile Committer, appointe d to examtue '•
PreccptorU Af'uftant, or Student's Guide "ben
a systematical treatise of Arithmetic, by l,j„ ,
Vinall, teacher ps the ,\l 4 ih ujanci & \V,,
ing, in B.oUon, tcporUfl, that they hare uteudrt
that service, and are ot opinion, (hat the- woiL
is executed with judgment, and »»«» well calcu.
latcd ior.the use of fchooli, counting houfrs ,„ d
private families, as any of the fame cinp.T,
that hat hitherto been offered to the pnblic.
Voieb, That ihc atiove repott be accepted
and that Mr. Vina (.1 befurnilhed yruh 4co '
of it, whenever he (hall desire it.
Copv of the Records. Attest
CHARLES BULFINCH,
The following oharafler of the above work
it given in the Review of the UtjtchtliUi Ma
£asi*c, fqr Jap,, i :
" This is a very ufeful work, and is qo ill
proof of the judgment and indiillry of the author.
The rules are laid down with propriety, and
the examples atiprxcd arefuffiutni fortksir il.
lustration. One pftt.of }|ie yoik defrrvej pa t .
ticular commendati9n. YVe meap that
the author, (tiles " Mercantile Antiacne " [t
occupies a confide/able portion of his hook, but
not mote tban us importance wilt jnrtify. w
would thp yp„pg /Wittaciiwn
to pay a particular attention to this braflcti.
He will find its principles well explained And
fiiould he make hitnfelf matter of th?m, he wi)l
always have ieafou 10 acknowledge his' obligj
lion to the jydjeious and laboi tp>is author, We
cannot but congratulate the riling g.ei)frvipjn or,
account of the many ufeful profluSions which
have lately appealed ; and in which th'cir im
provement b?J been principally copfolred.—
Among thofip prpduAions we midl place this
treatifeof Arithmetic. We (bopla be vaqttoj
in jpftice to the author, (hould we'not acknow
ledge that hi> work i| in reality ihat which its
title imports—The P>Rr.ciftor's Assistabt,
or Quid»."
Bojloriy Feb. *3.
Ati Ordinance for Jtcuring the punttual
, Payment of the Montii due oti the.
Svkfcriptions to the Society for efia
blifhing Uftful ManufaQurcs.
WiiE RE AS doubts have heretofore artfrn
>*Ub regard to the power ot the Society,
to annex any penalties tp the of the
instalments, agreeably to the terms of the fub
fcnpiions. And whereas the Legtflature at ihesr
ft (Eons, paflTtd a fupj>lement to the Original*
of incorporation, removing tbft f»id doubts,
and fully authorizing the Dire£io« to any f
ordinance they may think proper, tocomodihe
punctual payment of the said fubfenptions.
Sec. 1. Be it ordainxd, there fare, b\ the Goverror
apfi.Direflors tf\e Socitfy for ejlahlijbirg VJejuL
MavvfaflureSiThat if apy futyfcnfyer,of
shall negle£t to pay the second paym< int of his,
her, or their refpe&ive fubferipfious, together
with the lawfnl intereJl arising thereon, either to
cashier of th* Unitejd State? Bank. Office of;
Discount and at the caihi«;r,
of the of New-York, the calhier 06 the
Bank of the United States, in Philadelphia, of
John Bayard, Esq. in the city of New*Brunf
\Y.ick, in t,he ft«atp of Ney r Jerte.y, on,or beiore
the thirteenth cjav of April next : That thenaiui,
in that cafe, all and (very (hare or (hares of such
person or persons so negle&ing to make such pay
ments as.aforefaid, and the by them pre
vjouf)v Rajcj, (hall be forfe^ted > and forever there
after vested in the Direttors, and their fu£-
cefTors, lor the common benefit of the $9"
ciety.
epim
See. 2. Avdbt it farther ordained by th c authority
aforejajd t Thaj if, any ot his
! stall negie£t to pay the.third paymfnt.of his, he*
or their refpe#ive fubferiptions, tog|Cth,er vyith
the lawful in'tereflr arising thereon, on or btfore
the thirteenth day of May next. That then and
in that cafe all and eyery flxare.or shares of.fuch
person or pe'Tons so neglc&ing to makp fus}»
payments as aforefaid, and the monies
previously paid, (hall he forfeited, and forever
thereafter vested in the said Dire&ors, and their
faccefforj, for the common benefit-of the said
Society.
Sec. 3. And be itfurther ordained by the authority
aforefaid, Thaf if any fubferiber, or his alfigns,
(nail i)egle& to pay the fourth payment of his,
; her, or orbefoie,
the thirteennth day of July next, that then and in
that cafe, all and. every (hare or (hares of such
person or peifons, so neglc&ing to make fucli
payments as aforefaid, and the monies by them .
previously paid, (hall be forfeited, and (orcvei
thereafter veiled,in the said Dire&ors, and their
fucceflorS) fox the common benrfit of the said •
Society. NJCHOIAS LOW, Governor.
Pajfed at Xew-ArJi, vofh February/, 1793.
i (Counterfignedy ' ELISHA b6UDINOT,
Secretary pro tempore
BE IT KNOWN, that the proportion of spe
cie which may be paid on the refpe&ive pay
ments of every original (hare, by such Stock
holders as prefer paying a mniely of said shares
• in fpeete, in lieu of deterred debt, is as follows:
Dots. Cts.
/ On the 13th of April, 1793* with in
terest from 13th July, 17921
Og the 13th of Mav, 1793, with ip
tereft from 13th January, 1793, 7 86
On the lgrh of July, 1793, 8 eg
Stockholders in she said Society are hereby
notified, that I, the fubferiber, am duly autho
rized to make the rcquifit€ indorsements up o '*
the certificates of fha>es which they may refp ec "
tively hold, and that books of transfer are open
ed at my office, in Frout-ftrcet, New-York.
NICHOLAS LOW.
I C. A. A. A. S,
7 «3