■ " ' 'I, ' V ' JI-JJ —LX- ■■■!. ■- ■ ■' ■ ■ ■ I ILI 11. ■ , ,
A NAfiONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATUJtOA
[No. 118 of Vol. IV.]
m* THE GAtZTtt.
Hint) reffefling a projetf for tfiablijb
ing univirfaipeace with the Indians.
IjCtllCifllHD,]
• I 'HE firft public magiflrates, known among
A rude nations, are their military leaders.
Their firft public laws iremilituryoriers- Their
firft ideas of regular government are thole of
military JifcifJirir. Their firft ideas of national
character, and natiortal'nrtion, arise from na
tional exigencies that re&r to war or hunt
ing. The idea# of siting in concert, the ties
of public unitm, are firft fell; and .recognized
by them during the operations of war, or the
kindred employments of the chafe. Their
firft sensibility to public opiniort and honor, is
iinpreffed by such scenes—-and, in liich scenes
they acquire their fii ft ideas of public cha
racter, of order, government, fuborcftiiation,
regularity. Survey the biftory of theunivrie !
Is there a (ing'e nation that ever became ci
vilized before they were habituated to a f\Jlem
of military order t The feudal system, which is
the basis of European government, »>d of
which strong refemblauces have obtained in
Asia, was clearly of a military nature ; al
though the pay of the troops, instead of being
pecuniary, was territorial : Fob- it was a
fundamental principle of the feudal tenure,
that the Stipendiary property allowed the feu
datory, (hould be enjoyed by him, in consi
deration of his conforming to the orders of
his fuperlor officer and performing the fervi
ccs commanded by his military chief, or head
warrior.
The red people who border on the United
Stare-., have not however, been as yet habitu
fted to a regular fy/lem of military fubordi.
to; ion.—Although in the space of the lalt for
tjr, or even twenty years, they appear to have
made a perceptible advance towards such a
fyfrern. Among other confident tion-s, the de
gree of regularity with which they planned
«nd executed their operations in 1791, ar
jgass, that they are advancing from the state
of savages to that of barbarians ; and that,
»5 fitch, the Indians are 0 more formidable
enemy than tl:*y were bef-re the American
revolution
«d of property, union, order, and
resource, -is to maintain of themselves a re
gular (vlfeirt of military Subordination. Yet,
fike barbarians, the red people are diftihguifll
ed by Com- of tho e strong traits of character
vhich marked the eaiflier stages of the feudal
pulicv—Such are the aversion to labor; con
tempt of the mechanical and commercial arts
—the pi oneness to plunde l —and the passion
ilir war and warlike exercises and sports.
These traits ftrongfv mark the character of
the Indian warrior. They present his ruling
pafllon. And by this paffioji, it is projected to
feizs him—and r cJt him to his own interest,
to tlie tru? interest of his tribe, and to the
irltereft df riie United States.
Govlrt his pafllon far war be so converted
at tti be made the inftrmnent of' peace and
fiv-ilizatkr , the impottwlt point would be
gained, lirftead therefor# of giving prefenti
t» an Indian warrior, let hi in be allowed pay !
inlte'ad of being urgett to labour, let him
Inow that he may omit it ! Let him alio be
induced in his contempt of tire median cal
»md commercial arts, unfil time fh ■ H have
ejirre&ed his prejudices S let a main incen
tive to plunder be tiken away, by allowing
&;n a regular arid cumtfrrtatlle lublifteiue !
And-inftead of telling him to abandon the
ihi aiter of s» warrior, arid thus at once to
•radiejtir the strongest passion of his sous, tfW
bim that ho fttall be a more formidable war
rior tlian can b» found in any of 'he t'ibes
that are at variance with his own ! tell him
tint lie fliall be a re ular warrior ! tell him
to be a good soldier !
The |>r«>je& thrr«fore tvKWrfs suggested is
in substance, That the United States ffmuld
engage in fervire and maintain a body of red
troop*, allowing t' em Arch pay and emolu
ments as rtiifitary principles may require.—
That a proper port on of their officers, el
pec i ally of the higher grades, fliould be Ame
rican citizens, as affording afecurity for tlieir
conforming to the authority of the Union:—
That these troops ftiouid not exceed a cer
tain proportion, fay one half, of the whole
military eftablifhriient of United States,
f<> that the reft of the forces, being- white
froops, miftht with other c?ues, .completely
fee ire the obedience of the Indians ! Ar.d al
though it might at si ft be somewhat difficult
to m.ike them conform to the n inutix of
•wJkafy arrangement, yet it is imagined,
that they might he gradua'ly hnb'tnatrd to a
difciplinc which should be liberal, yet eventu
ally exact, nervotn, fo!id.
Could this measure be earned into full ef
fect, it might undoubtedly be attended with
important eotifequences.
The red troops might serve in lfeu of the
fame number of white men : and it? is pre
fumed,that t<)« expence of maintaining; them
need not ntnch exceed, if even equal* the ex-
P- ce of maintaining a like number on il»e
present eft ah lift* me rt. For the purpc es of
tbe jiarrtifan war,the fervicrs ct the red Jijer,t*
Wednesday, July 17. 1793.
co-operation with the more regular force of
the white troops, might alio be of material
advantage. And the suggested project, if
completely executed would operate at least,
in a duplicate ratio againlt Indian hostilities :
It would not only fjarnifh men for the ser
vice, without taking the citizens from the
productive occupations of peace; but it would
alio prevent the tribes to which the red iroops
belonged, from making war againfi the inion
—since their warriors would be in the United
States service. Artd further, this meifure
would tend to liecure a compliance with irea
tieson the part of" the Indians; would i,\<ro
diiC2 jniotig them habits of fubordmatioi and
gbvernment—and would thus facilitate the
advancement of regular industry, the ad
vancement of the agricultural, mecharical
and commeicial arts ; hereby accelerating
ilieprogrefs of civilization, and moral ini
provement.
The peace of a tribe or nation, being fe.
cured bv means of military regularity, the
Indians might be advised to aflomble andde
liberate on their own affair*. Different towns
might be pirftiadfd to consult together for
their common interest, and to cxttrd their
views beyond such objeAs as principally occu
py their attention ir> the councils already
known among the Indian;. They might be
gradually taught to elect persons who (hould
reprelent them in fncli confnltations. And
they might be told, that the young men might
not to determine on any measure that con
cerned the nation without the concurrence of
the old men. Thus they might eventually
be habituated to the art of legiflntion ; and to
the institution of a public council, consisting
of Reprefenrarives poifeflirg the ardour of
youth, and of Senators diltinguifhed by ma
turer age and capacity.
The extensive views of civilized society
now begin to open upon the mind. Ard we
might'look forward to the mode of adminis
tering justice ; the eventual establishment of
a regular fyftfcm of civil government; and
the introduction of education ard science
the prevalence of government, lasvs, liberty,
industry and the arts of peace among the In
dians 1
civilizing and humanizing the ruder part of
mankind, mi "ht be ascertained with a preci
cion, and carried to a degree of perfection, of
which hfjlory can Jvrvi/h no example. For it is
ftiggefted, that the United States should lay
the basis of a Jyjtem for civi/izhig the whole con
tinent aj America. Simple in principle, seizing
the rude warrior by his ruling paflion, this
proj.'ft propoies to conduCt him bv the inftru
inentality of this pafllon from a state of fero
city, to a flare of liberal government, moral
order, industry, humanity, peace.
To tb>s project, there may, I know, be op
posed one general obje&ion which will per
haps comprehend the mass of objections that
might be urged in the detail! It may be ob
jected, that the project is new, bold, exten
live. But was there ever any improvement
that was not new ? Is cowardice, ill the most
favorable view,any thing but a negative qua
lity, th it does no good, and prevents improve
ment ? And.at the word is not coward'ee in
literature, science or politics, as well as in
war, a rascally quality, that is tatal to the ac
c'omfiTimnient of any thingdifficu.lt and ulefuli
Has rot the idea of reforming criminal; and
making them nfeful members of society been
dec'ied by cowardice, as being the mad pro
ject of visionaries, until the American mag
nanimity dar;d to prove its propriety by car
rying it into rffe«st > And is not the conltitu
tion of the United States one of thi newest,
boldest, fublimeft projeifts ever executed by
mar ? And has any man of sense ever conft
dered it as a dofeft in some of the most emi
nent chara&ers in America, that they were
diftinguifted by daring ai d enlarged views, as
well as by accurate maturity of judgment ?
If a measure be in principle u(efui,and
friendly to humanity, its novelty, boldness,
and extent, are considerations that ftiouid re
commend it to the true American. And it
is worthy the American glory, by theireXam
ple, to teach mankind, rot only the art ot
faming republican goyernniei ts and thus
ftrving liberal order among themselves, bpt
also the art of civilizing and humanizing C'.-e
whole work) ALFRED-
tuR THF GAZtit£.
To J U B A.
[5« Xaiitnul Gtzclle ef Wcdnrflay
Tlxt. .irigi.i of declaimcrs and remor.ftrator*
,» <>( vcr> annquuv. If )0» will have
rrterc i.er 10 j,. eld book, li< Id ui great ieniratian
by kdi an«it<>:», and which for that very reason
hat ben dtuouneed bv some mortem patriot.,as
contain.ariHocratiral wiir find
that Balaam'* Alt it the BrU remuoflraier upon
record! , .
It would have been fortunate V*
ritiiemof the United Slate*, if the nuTie.nu*
fucccffors of rtut flngOlat orator Ifa* pCfffßea
the philanthropy and taciittrnuy of th«»r lonp
eared —lor it u said, tk* Balaam I
Ast tn*dt btit ooe fpeecfc tn the coorla of hti
469
sBY JOHN FENNO, No. 34, NOP rfj F!FT:ISTR£.ET, PHILADELPHIA.
and that for theavowed purpose r»{ prevcnf
ing £he effufioo of blood—whereas you, Tuba,
mid your immaculate coadjutors, ate hraying
from morning till night, in order to involve
this naj*py country in all the horrors infepar able
from a state of warfare.
You act. •• why our executive was so paflive
wh<;n the brig Little Sarah was arming heie, aJ
iho'a British bottom, and why all this bustle
fm<je the change of property ?" I answer, that
is not the least similitude between the two
cases. In the firft inilance it is well known,
that the President bad no knowledge of the tranf
wfen : and betides, that the vessel in queihon
* merchantman, deeply loaded with Ame
rican p- odtice, and had no commiftion or irtifi
of marque—whereas in her prefem state, it is
equally line, that (he is equipped not only to
cru»ze agpinft the Bntift*, but against other
poiv crs with whom we have been always 3t 1
peace. Do you really imngtne, Sir, that we
hav t so soon forgot, that we are more or let's
linger obligations to all the continental powers
'n i.urope? The assertion, perhaps, may be
new *o many l —but the womter will ctafe when
V*' ••• .•••">, th-it during our itr" » r librwy,
af^- V r\ Vit \ f ana rf.-n
it .. some of (hem we received pecuniary aifift
itncc— W'.f tiefs the loam- made to us by Spain
Holland. Are we tfjen wantonly and
tfcachermifly to relinquish the reputation which
have so honorably acquired amotif t\\c na
tions of the ea»th, in order to gratify you and
your fiction ? I tiuft that your difap.pointmcnt
Will be equal to the wickeduefs of your at
tempts.
Republican governments arc not new in the
Jcftory of mankind, and if they are-fo obnoxi
f>u* to kings, as to induce them to undertake
C r o<adcs,f*r fhc sole obje£l of extirpating them,
iOw happens it that there was no combination
&f despots 3gainft us, when it would have been
ft cafy to have crufht d u< to atoms ? If you arc
at a lof.s for t"he true cause*, I will tell yon. It
Whs because there was nothing unreasonable in
operating from a country, who hid denned us a
ftorticspatiort of rhc rights common to all the
empire. Tt was because our local situation
pointed to.ihc eHjVdicney of independence—lt
Was bccaufe we icjeficd with horror the tde»of
miaki nsf pmlelvtes to politic*! opinions by fire
kbrt fwoid. And further, it wa» because we
o.irCrUj?' with Ow nragtnmimiiy,
frA>dcration a-ini virtue, as wo«Hd, if imiiatcd fey
tfeofe who really wish for fibeity, iwfurc success
to their efforts.
Your address to the militia of Philadelphia, is
an insult to their understandings. I have the
pleasure of being acquainted with a number of
that refpe&able body of citizens, and can there
fore aflufe you, that thev know well how to
discriminate between what is ihe cause of
France, and what is the caws e of a lev/ (rlfith
individuals, who, in open violation of tlie laws
of the United States, are embarked in the djf.
graceful business of fitting out privateers, which
, --«os
rled, can
pirates. The virtuous yeomanry 6r l ffm¥WA
are equally proof to your seditious doflrines.
If this meritorious class of citizens submitted
with patience to the evils resulting from the late
lengthy but just war, it doe# not follow thai they
are prepared in the present instance to join in
provoking a rupture with all the maritime pow
ers in Europe, in order to fell their wheat to
Ju*a -and his affocialcs, at eighteen pence per
buihel, and take any kind »f plunder in pay.
mc nt, at a thousand p< r cen« advance !! !—Nav
1 g'i further and fay,, that the enlightened
people of this country ore not so weary ot the
incftimable privilege of chufing their own riu
Irrs, as to relinquish it fcirCommiJfioncrs, Minijlers
Plenipotentiary, Agentj ad hoc. Secretaries pro temp,
&c. Sec. armed with revolutionary powers to
convert us into an Bs'h department, by the fame
gentle means as were employed in Brabant, or
fend us oh bdird of prison (hips, in cafe of rc
fiftance to their fovrreign will. This kind of
•fovtfrhment, however it may suit Juba and his
friends, is not calculated as yet for ihd meridian
of /heUnfiled States.
Y6U (ell us »rt)otig otheT tferngs, that the brig
bit le Sarah brioflgs wholly to t and was fitted
out the ex-fence of tht republic of Fiance.
There is much re»fon to doubt the truth of this
amnion, becanfe it is well known that fhc was
purchafrd at auction by a private pcrfou—and
even adtfituing «he fa& as ftaiefi, yet it docs not
follow from thence, that the republic can claim
any right from treaties to arm veflels i» our
ports. TVe observation, that the agents or re
presentatives of popular governments pottefs
more integrity than those of m:xed or abfoluie
Onej, can only be true when ihe great body of
the ~eopie ihemfelvra are vtrfcous. but to fup
pole thai hone ft men -ire only to be iound in
republics, is an idea as illiberal ?» falfe. There
are individuals in all nations who do honor lo
human naturr—-»aria who, if ) fubitirt
ly to the arbitrary mandates of one man, hjve
been piobably forced to do it, in order to avoid
the greater cv»l> of bring plundered and mafTi
cred by charaftcrs of your dtCcripiion. Thi# I
take to have b«en ibe origin of all monarchies.
To conclude, I »>n clearly of opinion that
the time is fall approa< htng, when all men who
are well wilhers in peace, *I.' men whohaYe
property, and indeed all men who are nm hof
lile'io tht true imcreil of iheir country, will be
called upon to deda>e, whether th. y will sup
port a government o» 'heir owu or sub
mit to a new order of ihina-. fun cd ui>oo theirv
by Jv%±, VaaxiA«, » Jacoain, jmtr B*.m
y_c<wianj
or man.
[Whole No. 440.]
■ t*» urtar4>»ftwAn|it.*s «ite
lb«S: UNn
? MfcirEU.US.
«« Hf GAUnk.
JtktjkKCt jfc M Iff principal lAfrif qu/Hd
f«r Ae Tmt 'liin' « Th« Jfc.
fernery (nftjrtwa tot tht tfniv
\\ rHF.REAS it bath been a fubjcA of equlj*
pkint, uM the embryo projte£b of man?
nieritoricwua «eniufes are daily ioft to poftrnty,
for the of that foileritig care so nreeflfnry
to embolden the umid. And experience feachea
that numbers art found incapable of co«du£ling
or unde: ftariJing tbeir owuimmediate conccrtit,
lnd> otlitff» who through choice decline taking
ptrt in any a&ivc occupation. For remedy
*he focieiv offer ifaeir !•*{< oerfort*
laWring under these and firr.ilai crabarraff
meiKs.
fl
As a. v. a t ion, thf inem&rrs
•re to rettgn tnetf irmporaj nitrreiH without
r farye to the gquiaiue of the focietv ; »nd none
ftiall retain anycxclulive rigftt over his personal
property or inclination v to (he end tbf?r t*ta
fame may be in afl rcfoc&s a common ftocJt.
in.
Admiflion » I new member?, »nifV appointment
of officers, Ihall be deter mined by a, majority
of votes ; and in the latter in fiance, without too
tigid a partiality to talents, orftvoi to popular -
»nrn.; ah thefocirty (Hull infallibly become pwf-
I fled of an luud of inielUftual trca
fure, to an{we/t all purpofVsand circumftancts.
Ntvcrflit/ejs, Thii. clause (hall not extend
thole memhe*s who ate of thecommitiqe of ea
ter prices.
TV,
And where us a very ltiduftrious, of ct'ti-
W-MS, commonly known by thr app< 1 iatiou r>f
" the Dreamers/ 1 ipvc i>eett hitherto ne'glc&ed
and difcouragrd. For remedy wlieieof, (here
ftiall he a department <ffobVifitcd, which ftifcH
he denominated *' the Dreaming D fbfitMinf—
whose province it (hall be to feleA the most im
ponam dreaini and interesting vtfioos which
dull fee c*mmtu»rc fc v tte member*, and
<*her ssgmmus peifona flwiietJ aswi exp<«
»n the sit Qf dreaming ;to the end that Juch
communications may be made conducive to tb<i
formation ol plans lor ufeful
v '-
Etjjhty.four members flv.fl be clefVd t>y F>al
lot, quarterly, who (ball be d?stnmina»cd the
Committer of f.nUifrifa"— To them (hall (re com.
roitted the execution of ail arduous and hazard*
ous undertakings. No nifmber (hit) iSr of rhis
committee, exccpt he hath alreariv
btmfelf in ftngle combat, honorsriiiy killed his
man at least, or performed fom: adiun ihani
ftfltng hi& couragt aur] genius (Of arms.
VII.
rally to be made cohs
/ ——
of politics, by means of an extenfifrtr^^
deuce with foreign agents, and (imilar
which undoubtedly will fpreari he»e*f<er info
all civilized countries. Thij arrangemenr rs 4jt
figned to facilitate a principle Objcttof the insti
tution; which is to piojc# new fyftcms, or
amend those thai are decayed: for tottering
narrhirs, declining empires, ot deranged vt
pubWei.
The society flwH public the political,
or lamentable fiuiatton (at th. cafe may be) of
the feveial dates of bath bemifphercs ; whether
under the denomination of monarchies,empires,
rt public*, dukedoms, palatinates, or ele<6Wa*W v
&c. &c. in order that the chizens, fubjc&s or
{lives (as the oafe may br) may underltand how
far they ought to be fati»fi< d with their anckrtfc
ellablifhincnts, or whether a reiorm ought to be
preferred.
There are many other regufatioos which 31c
not necessary to be inferied here, as they contain
only the ordinary rulci for the prcfcrvation of
order, times of rccefa, Bic.Stc.
*** The Printer! are refue/led to git* the tUovt
a place in their refpc&ive papers.
FOR THE GAZLTTL.
[Contlufien i/Pacimcus, No. $,from our lajt.J
BUT Louis XVI. it is said, acted from rea
foosof State without regard to ou'caufi!;
white the people of France paTronised it with
«al and attachment
A-.-far as the slfertion, with regard to the
monarch in founded and is an obje&ioo to our
gratitude to him, it deftoys the whole fabric
of gratitude to France : For our gratitude ii
and must be relative to the fervicet rendered
us- The nation can only fclaim It on the
(core of their having been rendered by their
agent tmth their meant. If the views with which
he rendered them di vetted them of that merit
which ought to inspire gratitude—none if
dne. Tlie nation no more than their agent
can claim if.
As to the. individual good wiflletf <flf the chi
•em <?l France, »tl)ef did not pr«iuce th?
ferviee* rendered to A* as • nation, tVy titn be
ao Awadation tar MCMMf gratitaAe. Tke^qa
<
{r»tcbf» Wf (tens.
-1©nlv call for ** -• b
wilhes. The/ vuliivt frnn HW UU of *"•"
cbi.guti.>ii. • i i
but the -ffcrtidn take* more fur gr^*<**, u '-"
there ioreal>4i 50 l>elv ve true.
Louii the XVI. uo W.,t14 r»'t •" nar
canted from tsafan, ol ftatt; faoi Louis' «A v i.
was a humane kiud-hcarted «r.an. * >' c
his early youth had entitled him to fhiscairi
ter. It i» natural Ira man ot luch poUe.
ro become interfiled in the cause ol tnofc who*
lie protects or aios; and if the concurrent testi
mony of .he period m,y be credited, there wa.
no man in France r.u,reperfonal!y friend y M.the
cause of this country than Louu the aV I lam .
much miGnformed it reputed decuiauons o
(hi vcr.erable franklin did nol attel* this Ut.
It is a M tribute to the people of trance to
admit, thiit they manifelkd a lively mtere. in
Z «trfe of An,erica; but wh.U moUves are
fenne.l who «»» Uj now much of it »to b
afcribed f, the a,*. P athy wn ch they bore to
their rival neighbors; how much to thc.c fym
p.,thy in t. e object of our pu, fu.t ? It» ««
that the lovu of liberty was not a lenti
rnat in France, v.hen a s.-dfcr our .wife hill
a-jDeared amonz ijwt people.
f There i> reason to be ieve too, that the a -
tachment to our cause, which ultimately became
vcr V cxtr.nl.vc, if not K eucnl, did not \
with the iruifs of the- French people, .t uopn
wi.il tiw Clicks n;ore immediately, conn
with tIJ goveinm nt, and w M toci.ee a-ffufcJ
through,itiit nation. .
This obftrtatioii, besides its teuder.c) to cor
red ideas, which V« calculated to give » »• -
direction to-the public feeling, may feiwc t>
check the spirit of .li.beral inv'e&ve, which has
been wantonly U>J»lg J u S mift th-fc dilta
rutfhsd friends of America, who, though th-
M'.thors of the French revolution, have fallen
"alms to it; because their prin*pics would
not peril! t them to go the length of an entire
fubvcifion of the monarchy.
The preachers of latitude arc not .(honed
. to brand Uuh the XVI. as a tyrant, and La
FayM, as a traitor. But how can we wonder at
this, when they miuuate a diftru.l even ot
~~in urging the friendly disposition to our cause,
tnur.ifeftedby the people or France, as a motive
,0 our gratitude towards that pe pie. it ought
not to be forgotten, that those difpufibons were
not confined to the inhabitants of that country.
TheY were eminently shared by the peop e o
the United Provinces, produced to us valuable
pecuniaty aids from their citizens, and event
ually involved them in the war on the fame Cde
with, us. It may be added too, that here the
patronage of our cause emphatically begun with
the community' not originating is in trance
with the government, but finally implicating the
gorenumpt in the consequences _
Our cause had also numerous friends in other
countries; even in that with which we were at
wa r —Conducted with prudence, moderation,
jullice, and humanity, it may be fold to have
been a counter cause among mafikm.; conciliat
ing the countenances of Princes, and the aßec
ticn of nations. . . r
The difpoCtioni of the individual citizens of
frar.ee can therefore in no fcnlc be urged as
con diluting a peculiar claim to our gratitude
As- far as thtre is foundation for it, it mutt be
referred to the finite, rendered to us; and,' in
the fir!t instance, to the unf.jitun te monarch
that rendered the®. This is the condtifion of
nature and reason. . ,
A further view of this fubjcA is refervci for
another paper D 1 r„ e
No. VI.
verv-men who not long since, with a
JL In.!) would have been glad to make
an niitb> df j-s of any one who ftiotild have pre
sumed t,» tiJfjgn bounds to our cJbiigatiuns to
Louis tUe XVI. are now ready to consign to
tlie flames those who \entu e even to thi: k,
that he died a proper obje<st ot our » yinpatJ»y
or regret. Tne greatelt pains are taken to
e <eits against him our detelfcation* His lup
pofed perjuries and crimes are founded ni the
public ear, with all the exaggeration* of in
temperate declaiming. Ail the unf-r< ved and
ivntrM&itled a lie gat tons which have been brought
against him are taken for granted, a* the
oraclos of truth, on no better grounds, than
the mere general presumptions-—that he could
hot have been a friend to a :evolution which
ftrijoed ai:u of*fo imtrij power—-that it is not
like'y f, *e Convention would have pronounced
him guilty, ajid convened him to so ig;ipmi
riio~us aTat'e, if be hiul been rea'ly innocent.
It ij very poifibie that time may disclose
Vnd proofs, vvhi'ch will fu'oftantiate the
guilt imputed to Louis ; but these and
proof, have notyet been authenticated to the
•.voild ; arid junic? ad.monifhes in to wujt tor
their and authentication.
Those who have molt clolely attended to
the course of the trarfa&ion, find lea ft cause
to f>e convinced of the criminality cf tlie de
caed monarch. While his coup Tel, whose
characters give weight to their ailertious,
f/ith an aii of cm cious truth, boldly appeal
to fass and proof*, in the knowledge and pof
Jeflion of tlie Convention, for the refutation
of the charges trough! again# him-—the mem
bers of that body, in all the debates upon the
fuhjeft which have reached t lis country, ei
ther dire&ly from France, or circuitoufly
• hrongi'England, appear to have contented
fhemU-lves with «[fuming the exifter.ee of the
Charged, and inferi ing f om them a cri
• minaHry which, after the abolition of the roy
alty, they were inrerefted toeftablifh.
The' preemptions of guilt drawn from the
yhich have been gated, are more
than counterbalanced by an oppoftre preemp
tion. i* roo obvious not ro have occur
red to many, though I do not recoHeft yet to
met with if in print;—lt is this :
If thiConvcatio:} iutf poiTelTedclear evidence.
r»f tV "Louts, they wotjM hala p'o
- irefl rto '■ world 'ill »•> an J
iira/. 1 .ri: 1.-!.-"-!'' _' 1 "" U ' ""
of'in'.nkn-d, 0Q c : ,a f a f*';
tiie imereitof t-N-'tr can!?; inane W» *J|
Wo*.', duty; n'ar| tan the J* lan.-
:\.«o ily afe'iW 't« any otaei '".on, t.aft
ttic wanto iftuh cvijio&cc.
Tne.i'nfeie-'ce lY"in this is, tlrat the melan
choly c»tmftropbe of LootsXVi- was tSe re
lultot a political expeo.ency, utiiei
than of real criminality
in i cafe fit circuinltai.cad, f«s rt > , c:,n !t
consist with qur jofi ce or mi' humanity, to
partake in the »ne«7 and vindictive
whtjcik..*Ke to be excise '
the unfortunate monarch ? V»' \ c »* f •** "'. i
him to have been horn & Piince . no .
circumitancc fo.feithii title to the cmnlMTe
ration due to hi l ! misfortune'; as a man .
Would platitude Jiftatc to a peopli t'' y
;1 <; are t .. e people Ostitis country, to luJ ttar
aid to extend to the Con the misfortune* « the
father ! Should we not be more ocrMßi ot
vio'apmg no obligation of that WnA— >»• »*'
imoliciting the delicacy of our national cha
chara^er-—sy taking no part ... the contelt—
»ha» by throviug our weight into, cjticr
11 would not a just eflimate of the orig.il and
"protrrtfx of our relations to France, viewed
witn reference to the mcie rj-j»ft.on O' R ra "-
Midtf, Md n. tt> thU reu.it—that we 6u._it
,v.r to ' be part againit the lon ard furcefflir
of a fat'Kt'. on whose sole ufi ilc|ie;.idefi tne
,llilU:.ce which »s received that we ought
not *1 Hit /■<"! with H.m againit .he liaticjli,
whole blood nid whole treasure had beer,.<»
the hand, of the father, the means ol the allut
arice 'f>» ded n ? .
Bat we are 'ow-timei told, by way cd an
fwc>, Hi'' rTie ca» r e of France i» the can r p-ot
lihe tv : and thi»t we are. bound to aCi« the,
•ii,tloi'» on the fctfre of their being ff.nß«B«»'«
the defence of that came- How i»Y tliii-idea/
ought to crr> us, will be the lubjaftoi i*me
ex snnn.it!on.
It is only necelfi y here to cli.erve, that u
prSfents a quest.on effential'v different Iron.
that w;hich has heeiv in diftaDion. It we are
bound-to aililt the French nation, on the prin
ciple of their being embarked in the deft-nee
of libe. Tv, this is a ground altogether foreign
to that of .rratitode. Gratitude has referei.c/?
only to ku.Jofin ttctived. The obligation to
aflift the cair'is of liberty, has reieretice to tbe
merits ot that' cause, aild to the interctt we
have in its (import. It ooflible, that the
henefai'tor mav be on one 'fide—'he dclenders
and .ii'.'i'ior''ters of liiieity on the other __Gra
titnde InaV point one way—the loveol
another. It is therefore iniportan to jut!
conclufnns', not to corfmnd the two thinjj;.
A fentiiaent of Jnftice more tlian t'ne im
portance of,the qneftioii itl'elf has led to so
particular a difculfion, ref|«aing tlw proper
object ot'' whatever acknowledgment Hiay be
due from the United States for the aid wj»rri
they received-!', o.n France during the rtuvn
revjoHi
Xl>e extent of the obligation wh'ch it.riiay
iinpa'e is by far the mnft interefti'i" enquiry.
A I'd tiwwgh 'f i 55 that enong l i f)as
bi'cn already laid toe\ i ce, that :t doei in no
d.-g-ce iC'ja'ie us to embark in t'ii-- wiv ; yet
there i • ar..»th?r -,nd a very fctplf vipw of
the fiibjecr, which is too cAa to he
omitted.
The afliitance lent us Tiv Fiance was as
forded by a reat lnd powerful nation,
efling numerous arr "
t*He Force to be contended with.—The posi
tion of Europe was favorable to tlie enter
prise ; a general di'polition prevailing to fee
the power of Great-Britain abridged.—The
co-ope ation of Spain was very much a mat
ter of course, and the probability of other
powers becoming engaged on the fame fide riot
remote.—Great Britain was alone and likeiy
to continue so—France had a great arid"p£r
fuafivc interest in the separation of this coun
try from Britain. In this jitnation with
much to hope and not much to fear, she took part
in our quarrel.
France is at this time Jiigh engaged with
the greatest part of Europe,' iiuli«li»g all the
firft rate powers, cscept one, and in danger
of being engaged with all' the rrft. To ale
the emphptic language of a member of the
National Converitionr—(he has but'one enemy
aoil that is • ail Euaoi'S. Her interual fcf
fjiriare qiilhaul d.uhl in fcrious di!'oiiler.—
Hir nwy Comparatively'iiiconfKlerable. The
<Jnifed State; are a young nation ; theiV po
pulation rapidly increaling, still small
—their refou' ces, though growing,not great ;
without armies, without fleets—capable f ojn
the nature of the country and the (pjrit of
inhabitant* of immense exertions for ielf:
defence, but little capable of those external,
efforts which could materiaily serve the cau r e
of Frame. So far from haying any. direct
int'ereft in going to war, they have the (I on£-
eftjnotivesof iutereft to avoid it. Bv em
barking witl» France- io the war, they would
have incomparably.more to apprehend, than
to hope. * 1 ' * <- ,M
This contrast of filiations and induce,
ments is alone a conclusive demonftra'iion,
that the United States are not under an obli
gation, from gratitude, to join France in the
war. The u'tcr disparity between the cir
curriftances of the service to be rendcrtd y and of
t : ie fefvice received, proves, that the one cannot
be an adequate basis of obligation fi>r the other
—Thepe would be a want of equality, and
confequentlv of reciprocity.
But complete jullice would not be done to
f'lK qapftion of'latitude, were no notice to
lie taken ot" the addrcft, which has appeared
in the- public papers (the authenticity of which
not been impeached} from the Convention
->t Fra tc-.'jti the United States; announcing
the appointment of the prelent Minister l*!e
nipotenriuii'. Xn th.it addrei's the Convention
i:"'' • \
470
««t;.efv.n "--t t'< ':**; Halifax s.) j.i.ie 25.
Fieiltt. I'uJ? t|,e L '*' itL - j l.a:t i «- •"•■Jur gt
StHi". lu itti'Vc t-c r ii:>k*pen<lei't», was i nc , „} OgiJ»i# c •» l' l ®
„,.|y tw fu t uiJ Ull ' 1 J '' l "" i Alligator frigsie 110111 it. J-eier.-.,
r )r,\ t* 1 iuoit»cus view». >0 fc»
j-Vance bo, ctk cr.i.un.l' a"" 5 Uaiilpo.ts, nuvi.»g on WiU
the career oftheu proipe- Ut*e«n J ami 600 pnloi.crt, and
ntv 1 lome lloie3.
If this information is to be admitted in the The governor of St. Peters, wai
full force of tie terms it is veiy fatal to tue brought iieicinlhf /Vilig;u<»r, and
claim of grated* towards '" is a t liberty te walk about ihetown.
, The p, ifoners look extren,^
0.1 wm.le --v-.il the aid given u-. depended, acu-u health}, and appear to have been
not only from motives irrelative to our ad- treated with the greatelt huniailil/
vintage, but from unworthy motives, 01 as a))C j l-indiicfs. ■ —"
'it is iLa ted, from a bale fpecu'.atioi:— :t alter
. wards he dil'playcd a temper holtile IP the
conh'rma:ion of,vur (jcurity and pi • ■f, je . r ") l t
he acquired no title to our jgratirudc Hi |he
firft i'dlanciL or he lone, ted it in the fetoml.
Ar.d the nation <il"France, who can diilyclaim
i it in rirtuenf the- conduct ot their mult
together with him renounce ti epi ctcnfion.
It is an obvious principle, t! at it a nation can
clam merit fiom 11 e good deeds ct its love
reifet, it aunt answer for tiie demerit ol his
raiAvch. The rule to be .1 good Ore, limit
apply b»th ways.
But some deductions are to be made from
the ugi'eltions contained in the addielsot the
Cotiention, in reference to the motives
-..-inch evident 1 )- dictated the comniuriic: tion.
Tleir zeal to alienate the good .11 o» tins
v"Jbi.tr) from the late monarch, a-d 10-
c 1 ra f '-' t'.e odium tf ;e r'i c: ch nation a:' am It
the moiiarchv, svnsch was so aident as to make
,!<i,i overlook the tendency ol their commn-
Ini'-anor, to dila-i.i their vo ; aiies among us
of the plea of gratitude, may justly beluipect
cd of e fcagge ration.
- The truth probably is, that the ir)tJp.'Cuh.
Iron charged, amounts to nothing nioie tiian
that the governiireitt of France, in atfbtding
Jus alliance, was dnrtftvd by the Wives
w..il*; have been attributed to it, nnmul), the
t'. ore of promoting the interest ot t rant;, by
ieifening the power ol Great-!}; ataiu, a d
opening 1 lie.v channel ot c ir.merce to her
ieii—that the o. Dei s said to bave been given
to the Ambtiiiadors of Fra ice to tt-'p tiie ca.
reel- of our p oljieriry aie relolvable into
\ ipsc-iiiative jealousy pt't.he mimftJis el the
div, left the United Slates, by becoming as
p i-.verful a 1 <i great as they aie capable ol be
comma innlei a.i elUcient guvei iiii.cnt. might
prove formidable - to the European jiof.VCions
in America. With these ijua!.fic.it.o..; and
allowances, the i-.ddrels otiei s no new d- co
very to the intelligent and u.ibiallt'd f. lends
of their country. They knew long ago t at
the interest of Fi ar.ee had been the governing
1110 iv_- of the aid orforded 11s; and they law
cle irlv enough, in the convei Cation and c >11-
dust of her ag:nts, while the present corftitiv
tion of the I'itiU-d States was under tonlidera
tion, r'l it the government of winch rhjj.v .v. rt
the inft 1 urn: nts, would have preferred our re
maining under t'-e o'd I'niii, ior tie rcalor
which his been dated. They perceived a,Co
that thelV views had their effect- upon Come ol
the devoted partisans of Fiance among our
charaAers are embodying then.felvio with a'.
the a-d they can obtain, u-uler the lifc'j influ
ence, to reftft the operation of that go t ci nmeu
of which tlKy withltood the eftab! fli.mei t.
this was and i; leeu, and the boi'y 0
the people of America are too oYcerni:% ti
. .tai k about it. Too wife ti
nave been m:I!-d by foreign or domestic :11a
I'filiations, thc-v adopted a confritution whicl
was neceiiary to tui lately xl d to their hap
pi'iefs. Too wife (till to lw ensnared by tin
fame machinations, they will support the go
vcmmeiit rhey have eft iblilhed, ano> will t
care of their own peace, ill f'pite > i'the inii
.lion; elfurts which are making to detach ther.
from toe one, and to diilurb the other.
Toe information which the add 1 el's of the
Convention contains, ought to Cerve as an in
ftruftive lcHbn to the of this country
It o.isht to te.>eh us not tn over-rate florin
ftitnJJhips—to be upon our guard again!! /o
reijn attachments. The former will geneia.l
be found hollow «lnd delnfiye ; the iatter wil
have a natural tendency to lc..d a. ahde'fron
«ur own tiui inteieft, and to make us tin
dupes ot foreign influence. They introduci
a principle of a-tion, which in its eiTects, i
the expreHion may lie allowed, is anii-iiaiun nl
Foreign influence-is trulythe GttiLCr „n H; r.s.
to a republic. \V"e cannot be too carjri-1 t<
exclude its entrance. Nor on !ft w-e to ima
gii.e, t.iat't can only make its appioaciies ii
the gross finn ofduafft bribery, 'it is the,
mofl dangerous, when it comes tiiider tl-,e pa
trc*iage < t .cu.- pafiiotis, under the
national prejudice and partialitv,
I trull the morals ot this country are ye
too good to leave much to appie'-ci'd on tin
score of bribery. Care ill's, corticfcentm.is
nattery, in unison with Oiir prepofiVflions
ire infinitely more to be feared ; a-d as fa
li there i. opp.irtur.it) t.ir coi rnption, it is t<
H reine iibered, that one fireign power cai
moloy this rel'ource as well as another, an
ha| thee.Tea mud be niucli greater, when :
s combined svith the other meani of infli
.-nee, ttin.ii where it ft and; alone.
-
«t match i»>r
At ifoeihying of the corncr ltone of ihc Hotel
to be built by lottery in the Federal Citv, no
wards of 1500 people w:<e prelcnt, and walked
Irom thence in proefflion, preceded »'lodge of
I'ree-malon*, io a d.rinei, the uriucipsl diik of
which consisted of an ox mimed whole. A
numhei of toafh were <1 rai.k on the ocrafior.,
am. rite day concluded with much hu mony.
B. The principal fiont of the Hotel will
txitnd one hundred nnd twcri'y fecr, and the
jffcmbly room will be 43 bv so. ' T!i«j whol
*«or™,beb-tildin4 in Amt
fica, perhaps iii a»v oihej country.
' j
PACIFICUS.
Wajhington, July 4, t 79a ,
AUGUSTA, (\.»cor.) Jrtne 20..
We are authorised to .mention,
that ollicjsl coimjiiiiiicaiiont have
been received from the President
of the United States, by our govern
ment, forbidding Georgia (o cn:er
into any cffenfive war with ihe
Creeks. Tlit-fe orders authorize
the railing of one company of caval
ry and one of infantry, each 10 con
fid of one hundred men, to be cum.
iniHioned by the Governor of this
Itaie. a.id under Continental pay
wliilft in actual lervice.
Jt is faitl that a fcbooner has been
lately fitted out at Savannah, under
a Ki ench commission, to cruize a
gainlt the Btitilb. This p.ivateer
is commanded by a Fi enclitnan,
manned chiefly by Americans, and
owned by a Mr. Putnam.
Jv/y 27. General Pickens will set
out in she com fe of ihis week i 1 dm
Hopewell, in South-Col olina, for
Philadelphia.. ,
WINCHESTER, (Vir.) July 8,
By a gentleman from the Creek
nation, v/e are informed, that the
canCe of the aggi effious of that na
tion, on the < itmberland feitlers, is
by certain traders tellit>«* the Indi
ans, that cotflYtrv was thrown away
by Congi ess, and thety could do the m
mifchief with iniptinity. V\ hat mo
tive could these traders have for in
fufing such (entimem* into savages ?
rone, we can conceive, but .hat of
buying hoifis very cheap, which
the Indians Tteal from ths»,t place.
Q.ll the morning of the i-ath iiifl.
about the of day, Ca|>t. j«*n
Pfiiwiv wh"
company of inonnted infantry, con
fiding of (ifiy fix ; made an anark
011 the Hanging Maw's family, and
other Indians, who were invited
there by oider of government.
Major King and Daniel Cai in sclia
el, were at tl>e Hanging Maw's at
the time, and report that BeaircJ's
pai ty had killed Scantee, Fool Char
ley, one of'the chiefs of-' Hightower,
Betty, the daughter of Kittakiflia,
and federal others ; among thein a
white man, named Wiliiain Rofe
bprry. The Hanging Maw and his
wife both wounded, and Betty, the
daughter of Nancy Ward. Major
King and Daniel Carniichaei Isrjr
that it wis with grtfat rifqiie 6( then*
lives, they escape.d through the fiie
of these enraged whitemcn, and al
l'<J at their particular enireaty, they
spared the red of ihe Hanging
Maw's family, and did not bum his
house.
We hear that Capt. Beaird was
pofi:ively lellritfted by Gov Blount's
orders, fVonv cr fliivg ;he Tennessee,
'and to confine his piirluit- o that
parry of Indians, who had lately
killed the two Gilltims, or a librfe
fteajiiig party, iu the fame, neigh*
boi hood.
BALTIMORE, J.ity'to.
.The Coiiiinirtee appointed to
mine the fiiuation of the French
fleet arrived iti this harbor, a.n'jj
to afcerraiii the number of piifiea
gera, ainl ihe relief riecettarjf dO
be given them, Repqrt,
THA J- they visited \ j of the fltips,
and found on board g;i paflengers,
exclusive of people of cojour and n.e
gioes, ot which number about ioo
me women and children—.that th«
pafleivgers in other ships arrived and
expetfed are probably equal to the
above number, of which they have'
advised aii accurate report to be
made to tTie Confol of the French
Republic—That the diftreiies of
these unhappy people has not been
exngeraied, or perhaps equalled,by
the information already given to
the public—That an exertion of
great humanity is iitdifpenf.illy ne*
celling in the town of Baltimore, tosupply '"'"hediate wants and
ptoviclc for their comioi table ac.
toi" mod a '.ion, u mil t he in t crierence
oftlie fieucii imiiilter, or the gene
ral gov oi iuii e 1.1, can be engaged—
That ttie paiieugeis and c le v.s in
general appeared to be lieaithy.
actuated Ijy mo
tives i>f P"y f°'" 'I'e ilelplefs part of
the pallengers have, of their own
authority-, oidercd a supply offrelh
pjovilions and vegetables to ieveral
of the ihips, of which articles they
bad been totally dellitute during
ihe voyage—this part ofiheir con
driift tlicy trull will be approved of
by their fellow-citizen's.
j he bullnefs of futuie supply the
cbnitiiiuee conceive ought to be con
duifted in some regular lytleni. On
raature coniideration t hey beg leave
to retoiiimend the following relolu-
tions^-
Refulved, That fnbfcriptioris be
taken immediately for such sum as
each pei foti may pleal'c iu cpntri
bure or advance, on tlie occasion—
one third ]>a rc to be paid in hand,
and the residue when called for ;
— iliet the whole lie put under the
direction of the Consul of the r : i encli
Republic, who .will caufc an exact
account to'be taken ot the pallengei s
that are 111 actual want offupport—
that the Consul l>e requeited to ap
point a committee, from the contri
butors, to re'neive tiie money, who
will keep regular account* of the
expenditures autbunled by him,and
appoint persons to purthafc provi
sions, pi ovide hoults, and do such
other matters as ftralfbe judged pi o
pet- and necessary.
Relolved., Thac f a committee be
alio appointed to cali on the inha
bitants ot the town, to requelt them
to give accommodation to the un
happy people above mentioned, in
such numbers as is convenient to
each family j aiid that' they make
their Report to th<? Freflch Consul,
and aiiilt in carrying this plan into
execution.
, The fubfci i ption being opened on
the iuN«liAnge this day «t Y 2 o'clock,
near ltN THOUSAND DOLLARS
*r_cre iuunediately ftibfcrifaed, and
the *4)
rally followed.
. To'tie Ladies of Baltimore.-■
TO alleviate d'iftrefs is the pecu
liar province of t he female sex ; the
hand of nature formed them, no
less to fiiiooili {he afpeiity of man,
,and give a geiulenel's to his difpo
fiuon, than to avert_ misfortunes
from destroying his peace, or de
piivi»,g them of their severity when
they may occur. Being coiifcious
of this truth, it may be unnecefl'aiy
to remind the fair, that an oppor
tunity has now offered to display
the generous attributes of their
jouls. Our valued allies now im
plore aflillance ; escaping front the
Ruffian barbarity of a murderous
mob, deprived of* .1 ll that fortune
had prelentedj or their indaitry had
accumulated, they seek refuge in
this afyjlin* of peace and .happiness,
■without food to support.their droop
ing bodies, or clothes to protert
them from the inclemency of the
■climate.—The liberality of our ci
tizens is already preparing to afford
their mite ; b»it how many leinale
fti angers,many of them lately blefl
ed with affluence, demand the more
immediate and particular attention
cf their own sex I Once furnifhed
with every luxury of life, they now
would gladly receive the humbled
pittance—Very few pofl'ef* a second
change of garments, and it is in
this that you can especially aflifV
them ; thitik but a moment on their
helplel's situation, their impoverish
ed infants, torn from the hapless
partneis of their misfortunes, their
huibands, fathers—and my feeble
♦ oice will not be required to ftim-
Jiion into a< r rion the com 111 iferation
and benevolence of your hearts.
BOSTON, July 8.
Tbui fJay last (4111 J <>ly) being
t11e17.11 anniversary of American
Independence—the lame was cele-
Waled here. The morning was
ushered in by the discharge ot can
non from the cattle, by the com pa
«iy of artillery in this town, and by
the so"sot Liberty, sit Liberty
ftjuare, &c.
. -.t tivtlve o clock the Lieiuenant
guvtri.or, tne Hon. Count.n,- wiui
ie v t;, a J gcuiciici) of diltiiictioii,
walked ii, proceition to the *>ld
i>outh liieciiog bottle, where, after
the Kcv, JJJr. 1 hatcher iiad addi efl
ed the throne of grace, by prayer,
an Oration was delivered,adapted to
the occaiiou, by John Q. Adams,Efq.
to a very iuimeiou&audience,whole
countenances teflified the fiucerity
ofthe universal plaudits with which
it was teceived. And it is but jus
tice to Mr. Adams to observe, that
in,point ofcompofition and orato
ry, he has been excelled by none
who preceded him.
The Independent Fufileers, anc!
a company of militia, in complete
uniform, paraded in honor of the
day
1 lie day was celebrated wiih the
great eft hilarity and good humor,
hy every cluls of citizens, and at
funfer a dil'tharge of cannon con
cluded the entertainments.
The Ciiiciniiaii,agreeably to their
iiiftltinion, dined together, at Mr.
Bryant's Hall, in Equali 1 y-Lane.
Latejl European Intelligence,
- tiy an arrival at Bojlon from Liverpool™*''
LISEON. April 14.
T, j EIUT. Gcn. Bernard Ramirez Ef-
I -i quevaV, has been aj 1 pc>intecl admiral
ot our fleet, which will be of
II fhipsof the liiic. l frigates and 2 b'rigs,
artel are at present on the Tagus, bet wet ft
Junquiera and Belem, ready to piit to
lea. Twelve b'.ifidfed young men flora
Oporto have offered to serve as volun
teers on board tiiin-fleet, as well as niariy
sailors from'tlie adjacent provinces to the
amount of 4000.
GE R MERSHEIM.. May 6.
The Prince of C'oude has announced
to the Bretons who are under his com
mand, that he has received intelligence
that all Hricaiiny, exct-pt Bn-ft, has fnb
mitted to the royaliita, and that he withes
they would use all the means in their pow
er to go thither, where they may be of
mojcTervice than with him.
"
gene-
A fleet has just anchored in our roads,
fuppoled to be the aitillery fmm the tiver
1 h'jmts. The French, who are in great
iorce at Dunkirk, are again threatening
us. Lalt. night there was a long ikii mill
ing between our advanped polls and them
near Fumes ; hut as we have not heard
any thing since morning, we suppose
lhey hav« t.treated again.
May iz.
... The. Pre nth to, the number of I ZG&,
at 5 thinoloroing made afortie from Con
de and pu(hed forward to attack our ad
vanced pivfts, which to draw them the
nearer, rrijide a feint to retreats In the
interim the enemy set fire in old' Conde,
to two farm-houfes by which our cfiaf
feuts were covered. It wasjthen that a
battalion of infantry, took them in flank
and rcpulfcd theut vigorously—.killed a
number of thetn : As they gave no quar
ter they bro-t in no prisoners. Ori our
fide we had 6 men killed and two,bor£es
wounded.
The army under the command of his
fcrene highness the prince of Saxe Co
bourg has at this time a free communica
tion with that of gen. Clairfait.
We learn by trie French deierters that
their commander in chief, Dam pie re, was
interred on the right wing of the c»uip of
Famars.
Private letters from Worms state, that the
French Gen. I'.ufkine, has been made prisoner,
with a part of the troops under his command.
FRANKFORT, April 2 J.
The French army on the Moselle, confift
jng of 43,030 men, has made a movement in
front, aid again taken polfeffion of Deux
Pants and Hambonrg. Jt is fuppol'ed how-
that r'ley wiil soon be diiven thence
again, as the reigning duke 01 Brunfwick, at
the head of a body of 23,00 D PrutGan-s, Au
ftriain and Heflians, is inarching to the relief
of this D'.ichv.
[A'« an Mitit'i oj 28ti Aptil, in our l"Jl Cazilti,}
BRUSSELS, May iJ.
The French troopi, disappointed in their
efforts to fucccur Conde, have in great part
retired to the camp at Famars, and the re
inainder to garrison the different fiontier
towns.
O S T E N D, May 18.
A fbet has jnft anchored in o;tr road?,
poOrd to be the artillery from the river
Thamet. The French mbo are in great
force at Dunkirk, are threatening 11s.
Lad night there was a long IkirKiiiiuj be-
471
V t\v-en our advanced ponnd t? om nc?.r F»J'
i .>iit as Wfc ii i* vtj Mot 'lifct'd {I'll > I ill HIT
i we iup pole tIK-y ix»i v U ifilicdl jj
,cd
Ihe S' f >ctniih ihipis not,us has been
dated, condemned as apf jze to the r-e-cap
tors, there not having been yet time fur the
cuftoniary process of the High Admiralty
Court. The opinions in this new caie
'are, (trongly in their favor, and the
-Spaniih Amba'fador fays, this opinion coin
crctes with .the laws of his country. The a
niotirit of the specie already come at 15450000!,
and the whole of the cargo will net about
B>£|&3fe<h
. fSbf-ty; The fight wing of the Co!c?fii earn
' regimont were the troops that fuffired mo,'t
•in th(f attack 61 tfreStb. Itconfiftvd of four
tampkniet. commanded by Colonels Bofvilie,
Freemantlc, and Fitzioy—the
si ft loft 2\ men, the 2d 19, tlie 3d !4, and the
■ 4tb 9 killed and wounded.
Philadelphia, Joly' iy.
A le'tcr from Baltimore contains the follow
ing icj&Urs relative to the cauf<j of the late
ev at a? Cape-Franqois : v
4V Tnc most circutyilUmial account we have
received of thecaufeof this fatal disaster, thmws
considerable p<irt ot the ceufure* on the Hihabi
tairsof the Cape ; it apprarsthat Gen. Galhaud
arrived there in the Jbfence of the commission
ers ; that he found (he in great want of
provtfions, which he had nor money to purclufc;
that he offered the Americans fourteen dollars
per barrel inr f] iur, payable in drafts on Phila
dfl'fiWla or Francey.Vhat the American* refufed
Ho deriveTiiCTi p.tyYn'ent,' but offered their fiopr
at 12 d&lars for specie, <>r the pioduce of the
(hat the inhabitants, pteaf*. d with the
g(■ritoT'fMv of (Tils offer, agreed with the General
to lurnvfh ihe produce,in consequence of which
h?< eminent, (he American - delivered th**ii flour,
and then the mhabjtarits would not comply wji-.h
.their promises— at this fV'gc oJ :he bufitiefs the
coinmiftioncrs arrived—they ceitfured the gene
ra! for exceeding his powers, and so defined
wi»»r they conceived to be his aui hoi it y, that
hc.refufcd to remain in the Iflancl, and deier
-.mijicd on return ing to France. The com mi f
fioners however confirmed (hr pur-chafe from
the Amevic;in*. and a{T lied the inhabitants hea
vily (or th# payment —the latter disgusted with
iiie tax, invited the genera] and adniiiaKwbo it
fcerni was difpjcaled also with his treatment) to
an aaatk. on the commifli »ners, they landed for
lhe purpose, and the inhabitants refufed their
aid'* the commissioners and their party fulfain
td the attack, of their adverfafu s two days, and
it then would appear that each party considered
itfeif in danger, the one retired to the {hipping - ,
the <vher to the country ; the revolted Negrot s
were admitted into the «own, and then fee ties of
tatrtar were coitfimtt^d.*'
On Sunday last AdnuralSercev, commanding
the fleet from Capc-Fiancois, arrived in town
from balnmore.
The Hiip Wafliington. of Wilmington. Dela
ware, ai rived at that port lalt Sunday evening,
at.er fix weeks from Londonde.ry, with
about 360 passengers.
Tiie committee appointed by the citizens
on the 91-h inftatit, to pursue lllea Aires,for the
relief of the distressed citizens of
cor-.: ©a i n the fiyfifonent of their duty ie
commend, that '"iib'cnpnons-be upc.-ca ; n
refpe#ive wards of the city, in the diftrift of
Southwark, and the townfliip of the North
ern Liberties, for the benevolent purpose of
supplying the wants < f such of the diiirefled
as are or may arrive in this city, and those
that are already in great numbers at Balti
more, and Norfolkin Virginia. The follow
ing gentlemen are accordidgly solicited to
with the committee in raising the
necciTary Supplies, and when prepared return
tfee amount and sums collected to a meeting
of T tl*s"'fubfcribers that may be appointed
hereafter—
William Van PnuJ, Randolph,
Godfrey Haga, John Baker, Phiiip Wager.
South Mii'bcriy.
Leonard Dorfev, Thoinas Morris, Chrif
tophej.Kycher, Michael Hillegas, Jufiipb B.
M'Kgpn.
Henry Kammerer, CiiarJcs Bidctle, Jona
than Jones, Joseph Anthony, Lawrence Sickle.
High Street.
John MorrtUj William Wells.
Upper Delaware.
Andrew Hodge, Henry Pratt.
Lower De/awaie.
John Duffield, John Gill.
Casper Morris, Robert Smith, James Craw
ford.
Chefnut Ward.
John Stilje, Senior, BenjatninSaiitb, \Vil
liaiji Poyntell.
, . Miidit Ward.
Israel Israel, George Brckham, Francis
Bailev, Beiijamin F. Bache.
Sntk Ward.
Thomas Marrifon, Samuel M. Fox, Charles
Marfliall, Matthew M*Connen.
Dock Ward.
J<*hn Pui d in, Joleph Lownes, Thomas M.
Willing, George Meade.
Neu) Market Ward.
Daniel Smith, Clement Stocker, Robert
Wharton, Waiter Stewart.
Southward.
W«Hiara Clifton, Thomas Penrpfe, Joseph
Hodflle.
Karthra Lilvtits.
WiiHam Coatee, Robert Peter Brown,
Jacob Servofs.
LONDON, Mav 9.
North Mulberry Ward.
North Ward.
Walnut Ward.
Tv_» !i~.i ,■ .- 4 ,!q
;;i 1, c, !Hin i i C«> .y;ir'Js t n-c-1 a-i 1 1 v«;s i • o*l»
Cup.-.franco;.;, cnccuC; all' pra:k. tyttc*
f ■'luufifi.l D<u!ir\ luotc'ibcu in a vc:y
cimic—m.fi vtiuon". expedients are tic
viicl by their camafiuces, to tiud employ
ment lor the mechanics, and fouvon-|c»»t *»c
- tbj wi.u.e.
These exertion. appear to ilia Ice the molt
feofible- imprcflion» on the minds ot our un
fortunate allies—Su eiy the bieiling oi the
Father of Mdrdesy will dciceud on their
heads, who thus ho id out the cup of canfoiu
tiou to thole who, were re.vcly to pciiili.
Letters from New'-Yoik f;y that the Ambuf
cadc 14 «r rivCd there from a cruile.
One hundred and twenty veiiVls have en
tered the Chefapeak bay, with upwards of
1200 paftengers, men, women and children,
on baard, many of whom have escaped by
swimming from fire and (word, i>akcd, and
jn want of every thing.
The French fleet arrived in
carried in two valuable Dutch prizes.
Ext raft of a Letter Jrom a Merchant in Barcelona,
to a Gentleman in this City, dated April 20.
44 No doubt you have been informed be
fore this, that Spain and England are engaged
against France. Those powers have been
careful with regard to navigation ; the Spa
nish government* having ftatioried frigatfes,
and other armed ships along the Spanilh coait
from this p'aee and Gibraltar, with orders to
protect every velfel coming this way with
grain and any other goods j confeqnently the
Engiifh and American vefleh, on coming into
the {Vifeijjjit* will meet with a fafe convoy *
nor wiH they be molested by the Baibary crui- -
fers ; so that it is not necsffary to charter
neutral vefTels, a« those are equally fafe and
may be had on lower freight than neutral
lhips.
" The cai-jri) of wheat and flotfrfroin Arae.
Rica, is ju ft fwM to the magiltrates of" that ci*
ty, rhe wheat at the extraordinary high.price
of !10 reah per quarter, and tile flour 125
reals per quintal. 1 '
F.xtrafl a ltucr from Jufy. j. -
" There fgpns to be a uiiiverfal acquitTcrrice
in the mrafuies of goveinmeiu in this quarter ;
ind utili fs 111 orr fucccfsful effarti are in«3e to
stir up (he people to their own injury,, pCac?
will continue to bk f» us."
Exlracl of a U't:r fr:,n a neighbouring atontrytotAt.
l< Claw me and I'll claw yta."
Scotch P*ovt*is;
" A few high mettled idlers of our town
ii'.ditig no orher chance by which to diftin
guifn thetnfelves from the multitude, have of
late determined to meet together and to con
fer on each other the title of " M£M2ja OF IHt
Democratic Club"— -under this plausible
name they hope the public mind may he led
to repose intire confidence tn all their doings.
Whether tliey wifli tn choole from their own
foeiety the officers of government, or ro alter
any law that may not fnit the particular fixa
tion of any of the members, it is presumed that
110 one will dare to oppose their tneafures.
Should any one be so impel tinent as to
aik, is not this the minority dictating to tha
majority ! the answer is, it is the voice oj the De
mocratic Club.
44 I had determined toenlift myfelfwith this
party, but my friend and neighbour has fu«-
gelhd to me that in time the rcmocratic Order
will become Nobje, and that it will fubje<ft
our country to £Tdub?e. i• be much
obliged to any friend of your's for his opinion
on the subject before I am enrolled,
UNIVERSITY 0/PENNSYLVANIA
Jiriv 12,'tfgg'-
THE vara t ion for the PMofophtcil Glaffei
coramtncfi on Monday the ljih instant;
and is to continue Jix weeks; and lor the dil.
fercni schools, belonging to ihc Inflituiion, on
Monday tlte-tglh inftjm, 16 continueftur weeks.
The Commencement for conferring Decrees
on ihe Slutkntiolihe Senior C.lafi, who hav*
hicn already examined bcfoie the Faculty an 4
Truflces, and approved ps by them, will be held
oh the sd Wrd<R-)d»y. of September ntxf.
Aj the Philofo'phical Profcfforj wiii hegrht
their couifei of J.edfurcs about ihe ill of Sip
timber, to the Cla(Tes under their care, and as it
is utuat for Students 1 distant parts,' «v ; ho
wifla lo.ftalfh tfceir education ni.t'he U*liver£ty,
to. enter one or other ol ihefeClafics.accorrUoj
to their proficjency in Literature,■ it ij
mended to such Students to tqake their Applica
tions for adntiljinn at that tiihci '
The Lfflures of .the Piovoft for the benefit of
the Medical Students, will begin, as usual, on the
firft of November, when the Lt£lures of the
Medical Profcflora commence.
By order of ihe Facility,
Wm. ROGERS, Six'iy.
For the Covjlitution, &c. oj the Democratic Soficty r
fee 4lh page.
SfflP NEWS.
ARRtVED«/ii< I'ORToj PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Robert, Jacobs, -Hundurti
Jeony, Markbalk, S)e*r-Y««k
Jiiduftry, Caffio, , Lcwii Town
Tndullfy, Haven, New-Hampfhir*
Bri 6 P f fSV. Motrin S»*annaJ»
Chickley, St. John'*
Hetly,' Wood., St. Tlwiktai
Afiive, M'Krevcr, St.'Croi*
Duron, Deakin, Marfeillri
Derry Paitct, McCarthy, Mondur«t
Li*rly, Hickman, Button
Stk*» Sally, W'lfon, i}tiio
Commerce,
Sloop Mary,
Berfrv,
Shaw,
Mulford,
B»rman,
PRICE OF STOCKS.
6 per Cer.ls, ,g r *
3 per C-nis, jo y*
Ur ferrca. j (jt
Full lh«res Bank. U. S. pel ceat. adv
" A DSMOCrati"
Cafco Bay
Ntw-Ymk"
New-LondonPHILADELPHIA.
t
At a meeting of th 6 Democratic Soci
ety of Peonfylvanid, held at the city of
Philadelphia, for the faio city, July 3d,
1793 —
On mqtion. ordered, That the Com
mittee of Corrtfpondencp do publish in
one or more of the public newfpapetit»f
this city, the Principles, Articles, and
Regulations agreed upon by this meet
ing, together with a lift of the names of
the officers thereof, and the Circular Let
ter ordered to Ire sent to the different
counties.
Extra&from the minuts,
JOHN PORTER, Secretary.
Principle/, Artielet, and Regulations*
UfOJI sit TH
J w * i' * «'
or t«
DEMOCRATIC SOCIETY
in Philadelphia, May 30, 1793'
THE Rights of Man, the genuine
objects of society, and the legiti
mate principles of government, have been
clearly developed by the fncceffive revolu
tions of America and France. Those
events have withdrawn the veil, which
"eon ealed the dignity and the happiness
of the human race, and have taught us,
no longer dazzled with adventitious splen
dour, or awed by antiquated usurpation,
t® erect the Temple of Liberty on the
ruins of palaces and thrones.
At this piopitious period, when the
nature of Fieedom and Equality is thus
practically displayed, and when theii va
lue, (belt undei flood by have
paid the price of acquiring them) is uni
versally acknowledged, the patriotic mind
will naturally be solicitous, by every pro
per precaution, to preserve and perpetu
ate the bit* flings which Providence hath
bestowed upon our country ; —for, in re
viewing the history of nations, we find
occasion to lament, that the vigilance of
the people has been too cafily absorbed
in victory—and that the prize, which
|ias been atchieved by the wisdom and
valour ot one geneiation, has too often
been loft by the ignoiance and fupinenefa
of another.
With a view, therefore, to cultivate a
just knowledge of rational liberty, to fa
cilitate the enjoyments and exercise of
our civil rights, and to transmit, unim
paired, to posterity, the glorious inherit
ance of a free Republican Government,
the Democratic Society of Pennsylvania
is constituted and established. Unfetter
ed by any religious or national diftinfti
ous, unbiafTed by party, and unmoved by
ambition, this inlitutinn embraces the
imereft 2nd invites the support of every
virtuous citizen. The public good is,
indeed, its fok object, and we think that
the belt means are pursued for obtaining
ft, when we recognize the following, as
the fundamental principles of our afiocia
tioth
That the people have the inherent and
exclusive right and power of making and
altering forms of government ; and that
for regulating and protjfting our social
interests, a Republican Government is
the most natura 1 and beneficial form which
the wisdom of man has devised.
Thai the Republican Constitutions of
the United States, and of the State of
Pennsylvania, being framed and establish
ed by the people, it is our duty, as good
citizens, to ftipport them. And in order
effe&ually to do so, it is li'kewife the du
ty of every freeman, to regard with at
tention, and to discuss without fear, the
condu<3 of the public fetvants, in every
ficpanment of government.
111.
That, in considering the administration
of public affairs, men and measures (hould
be estimated according to their intiinfic
merits; and therefore, tegardlefs of party
spirit or political connexion, it is the du
ty of every citizen, by making tha gener
al welfare the rule of his conduct, to aid
and approve those men and measures that
have an influence in promoting the prof
ptrity of the commonwealth.
IV.
' That in the choice of persons to fill'the
ofßcts of. povernmeijt:,. it is effcnUaltQ.thc
«xiftence of a free-Republic, that every
ciciien ftiould aft-according to his own
and, therefore, any attempt to
corrupt or delude the people in esercifing:
-the lights of luffrage, either by pro mi f
ing the faviilr of nnc-eandvhrte, or tra
ducing. the chai after of another, is an-of
fence equally injurious to moral reflitude
and civil liberty.
That the People of PennffJvanw form
but one indivisible community, whose po
litical rights and interests, vrhofe nation
al hoaour and profpetity must, in degree
and duration, be forever the fame } and,
therefore, it is the duty of every freeman*
aad (hall be the endeavor of the Demo
cratic Society, to remove the prejudices,
to conciliate the afftftions, to enlighten
the uoderftanding, and to promote the
happiness of all our fellow citizens.
Having united under these principles,
we adopt the following rules and regula
tions for tranfafiing the bufine'fr ef the
inftitation.
Article I,
The Society (hall be co-extensive with
the State, bnt for the convtniency of the
members, th«n (hill be a Ceparate meet
ing in tlte city of Philadelphia, and one
in each county, which (hall chufe to adopt
this conftitutifn. A member admitted in
the city or in any county, (hall of eourfe
be a member of the Society at laige, and
may attend any of the meetings wherever
held.
ART»CL'E 11.
A meeting of the Society (hall be held
in the city of Philadelphia, on the firft
Thai May in every month, and in th» ft
fpefltve counties as often and at iuch
times as they (hall by their own rul<» de
termine. But the PrefidtDt of each re
fpe&ive meeting may convene the mem
bers on any special occasion.
Arttclf 111.
The ele&ion of new members and of
the officers of the Society lhail be by bal
lot and by a majority of »he votes of the
members present at each refpedlive meet
ing. But no new members (ball be voted
for at the fame meeting at which he u
piopofed. The names of the members
proposing any candidates for admission
(hall be entered in a book kept for that
putpofe. Every member on his admission
(hall fubferibe this conltitution and pay
the sum of half a dollar to the Tteafurer
for the use of the Society.
Auticle IV. _ •
The officers of the meeting in tin city
of Philadelphia (hall consist of a President,
two Vice Presidents, two Secretaries, one
Treasurer, and a Coirefponding Commit
tee of five members ; and the meetings of
the refpe£tive counties fßall cbufe a Presi
dent and such other officers as they think
proper. The officers of the meeting held
in the city of Philadelphia ftiall be chosen
on the firft Thursday in January io cy' Y
Article V.
It shall be the duty of the Correspond
ing Committee, to correspond with the
various meetings of the Society and with
all other Societies, that may be ettabliih
ed on fitnilar principles, in any other of
the United States,and to lay all communi
cations which they (hall make ajid receive,
together with such other business as they
fUull from time to'tirae deem proper, be
fore the Society at a meeting held within
their refpe&ive counties.
Article VI.
It (hall be the duty of the Secretaries
to keep minutes ot the proceedings of the
several meetings; and-of the Treasurers,
to receive and account for all monies to
tbeta refpe&ively paid.
{CIRCULAR^
Fellow Citizen,
WE ha<ve the pleafute to commu
nicate to you-a copy of the con
(litution of " Twe Democrat*® Soci
itt," in hopes that after a candid con
sideration of its principle* and obje&3,
you may be induced to promote ittadop?
tion in the coußty, of which you. are an
inhabitant.
Every mind capabb of tefle<sioo/moft
perceive, that the present crilis in the
politics of nations, is particularly intcreft
ing to America. The European confe
deracy, tranfeendent in power, a.nd un
paralclled in iniquity, menaces the very
exiltence of freedom. Already its bane
ful operation may be traced in the tyran
nical deftruftion of the conrtitution, and
the rapacious partition of the territory of
Poiand : And ihouM the glo.ripus eflbrts
of France be eventually defeated, we have
rcafon to prefome, that for the consum
mation of monarchical ambition, and the
security of its eltablifliments, this coun
try, the only remaining depoihory of
472
Libm?, wilt not Jong tic pet netted to
enjoy in peace the twflwi °' mdepen
daut, and lilt happioels of* lepubiicau
government.
Nor are the dangers arising from a fo
reign foirrce, the only ca tiles, at this time,
of apprehetifioti and solicitude. The
feeds of Luxury appear to have taken
root in our domestic foil; and the jealous
eye of patriotism already regards
the spirit of freedom and equality, as
eclipsed by the pi ide of wealth and rhear
roga<ice of power.
This gtnersl view of oiir fitnation, has
ted' tb the institution of " Thb Demo
cratic Society 1 ." A constant circula
tion of ufeftil information, and a libetal
communication of republican sentiments,
were thought 10 be the best antidotes to
any political poison, with which the vital
principles of civil liberty irrghtbe attack
ed ; Foi by such means, a fraternal confi
dence will be eftablilhed among the citi
zens ; every symptom of innovation will
beftudioufly marked ; and a ttandaid will
bfl ere&ed, to which, in danger and dif
trefi, the friends of liberty may fuccefs
fully r^fort.
To obtain these objects, then, and to
cultivate on all occasions, the love of
peace, order, and harmony ; au attach
ment to the constitutions, and a refpeA
to the laws of our country, will be the
ajm of" The Democratic Society-."
Party and personal con liderations are ex
cluded from a fyllem of this nature ; for,
in the language of the Articlej under
which we are united, men and measures
will only be eltimated aceording to their
intrinsic merits, and their influence in
promoting the prosperity of the state.
From you, Citizen, we hope to derive
efiential aid, in extending the focicty
and maintaining its genuine principles.
Ws request, therefore, an early attention
to the luhjedt, and solicit a constant cor
lefpoudeiice.
We are with e-ftce-m your
Fellow Citizens.
Philadelphia, 4th July, 1793.
Officers of the Democratic Society, for
the city and liberties of Phila<klphia.
David Ritte-nhoufe, President.
James Hutchinfon, T
Alexander J. Dallas, j Committee
Michael Leib, [» of corref-
Jonathan D. Sergeant J pondenoe.
David Jacfefon, J
Israel I Gael, Treasurer.
r» o } Secietaries.
P. St. Duponeeau, J
BANK of the UNITED STATES.
JULY ift, i7£g.
NOTICE is hereby gfven that there will he
patd at the Bank after the 10th uiftunt, to
the Stock.holders or their Reprcfentatives duly
authorised, FOURTEEN DOLLARS and
FIFTY CENTS for each Share, being the divi
dend' declared for the last: frx months.
By order,
e P3 w
RULES
To t-»c observed in tranfa£ling BufinKs with the
Insurance Company
OF NORTH-AMERICA.
iff. A LL orders for 111 fu ranee must beg-ven
il in writing, signed by the applicant ;
and as minute a description of ttic vessel is ex
'pe&ed, as the person ordering the insurance can
give, refnefting her age, built, how found and
fitted, and whether double orTingle decked.
«d. All poltcie* will be ready for delivery in
twen'y-four hours alter the order for mfurance
is accepted at the offcee, and the policy mui\ be
taken up in ten days.
311. Notes, with an apprsved endorser, for all
premium*, mull be given in tsu days, payable
as follows :
For American and Well-India rifques, in
three months alter the date of the policy.
For European rifqa<-s, in fix months.
For India and China rifques, in it months.
For rifques by the year, in eight months.
For rifques for fix months, in fsnr months.
And for rifques. for any letter time, in three
months.
4th. Loffts will be paid rn ten ith after proof
and adjustment ; bflt if the nrtte given for the
premium (hall not have Become due within that
time, the amount of it (hall, oevertheitft, be de
duced from the lof's to be paid.
The Insurance Company of North.America
hereby give notice to aH yhom it may cot Kern,
that, sgreeahly to the above rules, they a>n ready
to receive all orders for tnfurance, which may
be addrefled. to them, accompanied with direc
tions to some responsible houfc in Philadelphia
for tile payment of the premiums within the
lime limited.
In cafe the rifques offered finll be approved,
the insurance Ibe immediately efft £lrd •
otherwise notice (h>4l be.gjven, either by an'fwer
to the person applying, or i,o hi*agent, in Phila
delphia, as mav be ordered.
Bv older ol the Directors,
ESfcNKZER HAZARD, Scc'ry
J u) y 3'
JOHN KEAN, Cashier.
To the Public.
' | MK Editor of the GiZtTTt or tis Uhit**
Sr*T*i, propofek-puWUfamg the Papef,
u.xler thut Titiei ewrj Evening, Sunday'*
excepted:
To render it interesting at a Daily Publi
cation, it Ihall contain foreign and donie.tic,
com n»er rial sn d political Jntelligpnce
ft*y» «nd Obforratiom, loeal and general
Maritime. information M-Prioes Current irf
HSwcltandiae ant* tfre Public Funds. Also a
fiinWiary proceedings ofCongrefs, ai;d
of the te'giilature of this Stare with ft
(ketch of Ootigreflioual Debates, &c.
favors will be gratefully, rt.
ceitfed.
T £ R HS,
To bf printed on paper of the demy size;
bat a larger iize (hall be substituted iiriHcen
btfr neMt
The price Six Dollar? per Annum, to be
paid half Yefcrly.
Wbfln a •fijfoiefit-nnmber as S(jbficrihersii«
obl»itiedy tfcfc Publication (ball commewoe.
In the interim, the Gazette will be pubSili
ed twice a week a? ufual.—Subfcriptionsare
refpeAt'uHy foJioited b> the Public's humble
fervajit,
JOHN FCNNO.
#3" Suifirtptieimn'e r<ccirei "■ the<ity far exit.
South Second Sir ft'—ln Mr. Dot/jn, at tkt i/o.ic
Houfe—iy other pe'Jons uho art in ptflrjpff vjM-
Jlriptim pap*r< ■ and hy the Eintt' at tfs ktujc t
So 34, tftrth FiJtkStn w.
Philadelphia, JflJf, f79s.
TH£ t. Dlru H
MVST effnejlly trquejli theft of hi a diffant Sab*
ft ribers who are tn arrearsJor the Gazette, to waki
ptfymM as son d\ pc/fihle. — 'lkok bcrjons who bam
nc wod frhf&iptio* frohey tut fa aocoant afe dt fired
to remit-the fame. The cijWTO&et Jot tU Gazette
have aicumu'ated to ajerious awount-e-Serrov*, dt
they are the onU refoune to (ft/charge very Jbtous
engagements incurred iA tfre profeeutiH of-thii e£*
pstiftotfn/btieartin. J\*ne-2&.
INSURANCE COMPANY.
PHiiA»npn fA , ju4y.ift, t*ns.
NOTICE is ht-relSy given to the merobt-ti.ol
the Infurjrice Company of Noitb Ameri
ca, ttiii th« D«" ttdrs hlv« ttedafiftl a dividend
(to tM» d»\l)-o< fufptrr «t)t Ort>ht?athc>vi>t #l !b*
fiTftinftalmettt, »lid of ot»* pcr.etnt p»r rnaiKt\
oa the fuou p«<i «fn»ai<l« the ft-cond and thitfl
thfttifllmtjLe>lesUtin£ fr«m !he firlf .lay aj
the month IdTlowitig that ib wlrtttt tfaf? piyi.
mentu wera made. The I>nMdmri wtil ijt p*i4
to the Stockholders or their Rapr.rfcotMivtt, al
the Ccfthp*tty*» Olftce, (No. 119, fouih ficdE-
St«*)at-«ijy timcafter the 55th iofl.
Jt&KNEZK* HAZAftP. Stc'ry,
As ike mtmliri of this (orlptay, ore met
dijpctfcd throng hbttf ffff l/hitcd IfdTtt. Hit: Printrri
imktfivei*ljhtlet ms rt^uJM'Kgne-ltU tktt i
fbl*.in tkti* amijpgptrr,
Alhany Gla/s-Haufe.
7%r Frdp«irjorn * mtfci
the Firip of
W'CLALLEN, M'GREGOR^WCB.
TVEG leave to inform tbr public, that they havi
1> now brought thfir VVINDOW-GLASSto
fbch perfection, aj will be found, on toibpirifon,
to be eijusr], in quality* to tilt best London
Crown Glift.
Havine fixed their piiccs at a lower raKlba*
ittporlid Glaft, they art imtuced lo believe, thai
this aniclt will"Be efffebniiliueil',
in proportion aa their WntMare eiHtrtiof'd.j*
They ptr»pofo to enlarge tho fc»te of rfmhti&i
nofs, and a\ t be'furceis of it. will depend ob Ifx
patriotic support of the public, they beg leave to
foticic their frrertdly patfortage Tn the purfuif of
9 btwtc| ythicti will' iotcrcft evert Jovtfc of
A*nieA» Ma»vrMTsitM
Ail orders for Window.Gi»ass» of any file,
will be received at the Store of Rkodcs and
MacGrego-r, No. Queeri-ftrect, New-
York, a-nd at the Glals Wa*eh6trfr\ No. 4s,
Miarket-ftreet, Albany, which will be pun&ua.ly
attended to.
WANTED, fix smart a&rve LADS, rtof
exeecd'ing 16 years of age, to be indented ai
Apprentice*, and- regularly inftrefttfd in tht
various branches of Glafs-Malcirig*
A-lfo, three Window-Glass M-iker*, to wboa
greai encouragement will be given,
May 1, 1-93.
GENERAL POST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia, Mxty 27, 179J,
500 Dollars Reward.
WHEREAS a cert.in THOMAS SL&S
GANTT, has laiely made his e leapt
ftorn Baltimore County Gaol, to which he wai
committed under a charge ot having robbed the
Eaftjcrn Mail, on the 28th day of January last :
Notice is i»ereby given, that a reward of five
hundred dollars will l?e parid at this Office, to
any prrfon or per foils who (hall apprehend the
said Thomas S/af&Gayitf' } ami deliver him intotht
cuilody of the keeper of the said Gaol, or into
thecuftody of either of t-he Murflials within thi
United S'ates, so that the said Thovw- Slop Ganti
troy be effr&ually ftcurcd, and forth coming t«
atlfwer the above mentioned charge.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
The following is a description of the
named Thomas Sloss a ntt :He is abouj
fix teet high, (trait and well made, has light co
loured hai», tied behind, fair complexion artd
has a down look when spoken to.
eot?w
Pfljl-MaJkr Central.