A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNO, No. 34, NORTH FIFTH-STREET,; PHILADKLPIUA
[No. 125 of Vol. IV.]
f>'ii Jt- fjM F Q A 2-£. I ' : , j
HOW profufe ! how prodigal ! are fonie
m>n of their genius! They have no
more id«a of economy than a libertine—Sure
this extravagance dolewej the utinott ten
ure; and when we fee a man ]avi ftji 11JT as
nany metaphors ami figuies upon one subject
s would serve for adozei, we cannot but la
nent the blind the incOnfideVite walVe nt ta
nnts aml®enius, ami be led to believe that
he lime will come when this prodigal < >f w,t »
ike children that throw away their bread ai d
Juttei, ivlll want tiiat which he ha* lo toolifh
v fquandertd ; I am carritfd into these r<»-
fle&ionsby the perul'al of Come verl'es adiiietl
rd to " Juftfte" in the National Gaaftte of
July' 31ft* ; only attend to the vast variety of
Biapes and figures nndei <vh:ch tlie P clident
of the United States, ai:d 'the writer <ft
u Justice" are reprelented, and mark their
connexion.
The Prcfidert is an ro;al fig—
a fieei and a deer, in only two verses.
But tie writer of '< Juftit e", far exceeds
him in title- —He is dog, aml a moujt. but
£*£xl»v 1 *»'-•' «s js • ■'< 'i f! itrict- L &-prtvUtttr
— a nag
ape with a "cUnJ? quill-" , •
' What ail imagination this man mull have .
What aftonifliing incongruous powers ot coii
netticm ! One would suppose these verses were
written at sea, when every movement ol the
veirel introduced a new train of ideas.
" Wit" fays Lord Kaims, " consists chief
lv in joining things bv djla*t and fanciful rela
tions, which fwprife, because they are
tcftcd ; such relations being of the Jhgrtcjt
kind, readily occur only to that per for who
crakes every relation equally welame. What a
wit then the author of these verses in nit be,
who ioi-r-e have no relation at n—
W5 pretenfi.tns to fancybiiV are really Jurprt
jing and unexpeled, and are made equally wel
come with the heft relations imaginable.
As I am unwilling to throw any damp up
on decided merit, I am sorry that candor obli
ges me to observe that the metre in these
veries is not altogether accurately measured ;
however it should be remembered that ge
nius spurns at cifnfinement ; apd God forbid
that I ftiould cast a (hade over this rising lu
minary for a paltry fglhtble or two in a line—
©elides ttre more Hie' verTTKoßTifes, the more
is the " found an echo to the sense," and eve
ry body knows this Is ajcapital object in Poe
try.—Perhaps too the author, under the func
tion of Pope meant to J)i*lch a giacc or two
bc\Qnd the reach of art\ and dbubtlefs he im
proved upon the idea, by taking it beyond all
human camprehenfion too. JUSTICE.
• See page of this Gazette.
FOR Till GAZETTE.
THE public having seen in the General
Advertiser of Saturday the 13th inft.
a piece laid to be " from a correfpor.dent,"
entitled, " Two queit ions to two great Men,
one a piece."
iff. Whether he, one of whnfe com pa
nions is a man, who was employed by the late
King of France to bribe Members of the Con
vention, and who afterwards ran off with the
money, is a proper person to be at the head
of the Finances of the Uukm ?"
2d. *' What should be thought of a man, to
Whom a late General Officer in the French
Armies would dare to cry out with exulta
tion, that St. Domingo wasruin'd? Should
we not think he delighted too much in devas
tation to direct a war?"
And another in the fame paper of Tuesday
lift, under the fignatnre of ** Viscount N?>*a
ille-.," in which he fay* that', " In Voor Sa
turday's paper, you informed the public of a
conversation refppfting St. Domingo, between
a late General Officer in the French Army,
and a person who is so described as probably
to intend the Secretary at War, and conclud
ing with facing, that if your informant had
reference to ine, he told a Lie.''—lt is become
neceflarv, in order that a right judgment may
be formed of the whole tianfaftior, that the
following ftateuient should be laid before the
public.
An Enemy to Foreign Influence.
Phrlede/pva, .7 y ') 27, 1
On tMPnorning of Monday 15th rnft. be
tween feveo and eight o'clock, at the requcft
of the Vi'countde NoaiDc. l ?, a gentleman of
this c»ty accompanied him to Mr. Badie's, •
when rh follow i.-g cotlyerlation pdOeri :—
' ■ —Sir,- in your paper of Saturday
Ir.lt, the public are informed of a conversation
a Frtnch General Oifccer, and agpn- •
tlenian n 3 public capacity in the service of
tue United States—By the French Officer I
conceive I sin meant.
Mr. Bache.—Sir, it is fa*><J 11 a General Offi
cer," your name is not mentioned, arc! 1 ven
ture to allure you, it was not intended other
w i c f^an against a man in public life, unJcr
jfeh Government.
I am tjje only French General
OtMpr m town, and doubt tJv ji.finu
*twp alludes tn riiM; arc vef-yJ
Saturday, August 3, 1793. [Whole No. 445-]
Jwt- pnde
taclc o|K»n aiwtftr. • ••s**• " "»*V ' /
Air. Hachf —i ' epp»t that yon are not tnel*
tvoncd, and that tfe artvtl# is 'not uieant
rgiht i on. ' . ' *'
V. A'oai7.>ii—Her* k my answer tnJlifs stt
tack (handing him tihtt the
signature of VilcoiHfr Ndaitie*) which I with
inlerted in youp' - . ,
Mr.'Bacht.—Be*ffMtcd I (hall
duty to do to. • *,-■•■ I?
V. S'auitks.—l now wifc to-hive •Gie-'uaoie
■
•Ae.—tM
. Mr. DacAe.—?At preftn —/
Ko fciva l\im-Wpy but wiH Co
aiKt.oiKujto'ltaw to l«* il»nic. -
„ i K m«y -,
arid toi #ift>pflnt itt 1
■ i Mr. .dertiiirfj <k> &>« ,
V. SriiHtr^-fto-Khatibofii *•■»" 1 &fV« at
oji fwe i as vifc.it tptoS#' 6 ' f
Int.J'' . i"
~ Mr. tWB W'|Wf 1 f J
w'nUftseiytfii ag»Mi^6rip«t'ow d *%, ( i
again,beiylßMi pp*
UUd-'t+fr " '■• ' •••^,•>:■'• — ' -' : •• P
' a private man r vo tins towi
.try 1 tof<m3i»>quiet: it <*«yman wiftw:
to addtefs me with Duth, I have no t?bje6;iop
as to iiiyieU* hw being left w-i;h you—
hut no man Ihalffite tkro' sic as another; fc
chJrt you will be authorised to give, up the
name of any pevioii >yhu Diav hereafter pre
lent other publications.
Mr, kachc.-r'lt is il.ot the custom cf this
cjuutiy.
V. Moaillcs.—l will call again between one
and two o'clock.
Accordingly at about half past one, Vis.
Noaiiies, accompanied by the Tame gentleman,
callid lit Mr. Bache's, and waited about half
an hour, when Mr. Bache came in and began
the con venation.
Air. Bucke.—l am. now authorized to give
you tiie name of Citizen Paital as the writer
ot the piece in queitiun.
k\ Aloatffo.—Mr. the Secretary-os
Mr. Geiitt ! t
Mr. cache-—The fame.
V. Aouillej*—Very well 1!!
Mr. lactic.—l can alio inform you the inten
tigsi SKIS r»'»t \Cuba* t your bet meanti
Aguwjt a public ojjt-ier oj our Government.
Munities. — l repeat again, I hope you will
aIwA)S *>e to name the perion who may
in iuture cleiire you to print any thing rela
tive to me, or you will be aufweiablc.
Air. Bache.—Yes, Sir, certainly.
V. NoailUs.—*l expert the lei ter given you
this morning, will be printed.
Mr. Bache.—l give you my word it (hall.
The name of the gentleman who attended
the con variation, the printer is in poifeflion
ot, and at liberty to give any peifon who
may doubt tb£ authenticity of it.
FROM THE BALfmOlti i.VE.aiSG POST.
SIR,
Your ifijerting the J»'!owing in your ufejul Paper t
tuill muck oblige A FRENCHMAN.
AMONGST thcMulattoes and rebel Haves,
\Vho plundered and burnt the Cape-Fran
cois, or slaughtered its unfortunate inhabit
ants, Stephen foverel and Leger Felicite
Sonthonax, who always lay they are delega
ted to the French Leeward lflands, to rcejta
blijh order and public tranquility, have declared
by their proclamation of the 2ift uit. that
the will of the French Republic, and that oj its
delegates j was to give freedom to all the Negroe?
who will fight for the Republic, under the or
ders of the civil cominttfarles, either against
foreign or domejiic enemies.
It should seem by this expression, that all
the formidable armies of the combiuated for
ces against Fiance were threatening the
French Lecwaid Ifhnds. Neveithelels it is
undoubted, that the Eiglifh, the only nation
to fear in these Teas, were without ary J'qua
dron at Jamaica ; and that the Spaniards kept
them elves within bounds to preierve their
boundaries. Therefore who were the true
enemies of France at Hifpaniola ? The rebel
slaves and free niuUttoes their instigators,
and the Haves ha ye been declared tree by the
delegates of the Republic. I* it for havjng,
since two years, laid waste that lb flour tffciug
country, by murdering the proprietors ai d
burning the properties ? tfcat they have been
called to fight against t(;e doniefiic enemies..
Who were tfien these domcftic enemies T the
white people who they had already fwprn de
finition to.
But now, how agrees that will of Che dele
gate ;ol the Frtuch Hi togive freedom
to ell the Negroes, with their oath so solemn
ly taken, on the 24th of October last, the day
of the reception of General Rothambeau, as
Governor of St. Domingo ? He do A»ow y laid
tbe\, tiio kn.di oj men in thn country, the Jree*
men and Jluvts. He do t.naiu that Jtavt?*
jitxeffary to the Lu'onjai Such is the «?rV7 *f
the National tinvention* and we do declare that tf
tUy naulA Aic their diffojiiioru in this regard, ue
489
*h u!d r&tfor djs~ than f ° to that, vfa-
Ut iof ycitr properties.
Ask! now, the will of. the of th<-
Republic is to violate tleie properties, to give
the freedom to all tfte Negroes, to make them
,enjoy allthe rights of the French citizens; and that,
.fay they, fa the mission which the ftat'onaU onven
itwrrj and the Executive <.ou»a/ of the Republic have
"iven to the Cttui (ommiJ[aries.
All the proceedings of the National Con
vention are public. Where is that which
pives them such an impot tant miffior, to make
Jlpift enjoy afl the rights of the French citizens ?
would not all the world have resounded with.
ft> "its of that event !
jAlljes American, judge now between the
Gi ii Commissaries, appointed by Louis Capet,
ans the inhabitants of St. Domingo, accused
by rhen , or their in your own papers,
to infringers to the laws,, particularly to
thav which p,ives to the Mulattoes the rights
of Citizen?! There are infringe rs of the laws,
but the French nation will judge them. She
ougf'if at length to be enH^h r ened by the con
flagration of jlhat important city, the Cape-
Fraj.co.s.
;v' v •
it i Aiii
NATIONAL CONVENTION,
May 6.
C AMBON, after some remarkson
the want of harmony in some
parts of the Republic, offered a plan
of inltrudiion for the coinmiflioners
of the Convention. The discussion
on this was adjourned.
Ban ere read letters from Nantz,
dated the 3d May, by which it ap
pears that 600 men ofthe anny coin
manded by Gen. Beyfler w ere driven
back at St. Lcger, by the rebels,
with a loss of 100 men, and 2 pieces
of cannon.
foreign Intelligence.
TranflatcdJrom French Paters.
The ad mill id rat ors of Nantz write
ftaiing ibe iieceffity of immediate
afliftance, to repiefs live rebels in
the department. " But a little
while since a body of 4 or 5000 men
would have beer, fufficient to reprels
the infuri edtion ; but time has been
given thein to organize afidexercife
themselves ; they occupy more lhaii
25 leagues square of country, and
all the inhabitants of this territory
take an active part in the rebellion ;
they are obliged to march under
pain of death ; the emigrants and
priests have succeeded in making
some of these unfortunate people
believe that theyaie invulnerable.
—Those who are taken and con
demned to deaili go to the place ot
execution with demonstrations of
joy, and in expectation of an inelti
mable reward. These people ate
not to be despised, there are about
200,000 armed ; 1 hey march in
large bodies ; 40,000 have been
seen moving with order and celeri
ty. Extensive meafutes 11) alt be
'taken ; two armies fliould proceed
'against the rebels, one from Nantz,
from Saumur, and our ge
nerals fliould never attack but with
Cuperior forces."
Barrere read another letter giving
an account of some fnccefles of the
rebels against a small body ot patii
ots.
Another letter from Poitiers an
nounces tbat that city is menaced,
that the rebels have gone into Bi ef
fuire, which our troops had evacu
ated.
After the reading of these letters,
Barrel e infilled on the importance
-fit' preventing the civil war from
spreading ; he gave an account of
the forces in march or intended R>on
to march againtt the rcbe viz.
Ten thousand regula>», 6000 re
cri'-ts of the department of Chaien
ie, 1000 volunteers of Orleans, 2
battalions from Rouen, 12,0c0 men
from Paris, the amount ofafubtrac
liop "f "cn from each company
in one of the aunies of the fron
tiers : such arc the foice3 intended
for this expedition. But there are
in Pari* men wl.o brctd confuflon
in the feCkioiis, who will neither
fervrnnr n.l.irs to tti "*■«*.
wli<i kill time in ci'ilruilions ; rlieie
are count ei -i e^olutlonilts who j'ctl
v'ert the law i« givs a ft.ib to liber
ty. Some wifli to feuil ufl ba< he
lors only, ollters <ii iltoci ais, Mid
01 hers again other eludes ; llietlce
a genera! want of euetgy.
A member announced that in ihe
depart uifnt of Lot, all the .citizens
wilhed to be enrolled ; the gates of
the city were obliged to be flint to .
prevent this entljufiafin froiji being
an injury to the population and in"
dullry.
May 7. The coniniillioners of the
convention on the vefteijt coalls
write that they had fulpended the
colonel and arretted 8 ofiii e< s of 1 he
Germanic legion, and Ill.it their
conduct was applauded by the pri
vates.
Cambon declared. thai oil the ioth
of this mouth, the Committee of
Public -Safety would render an ac
cotyiT of all their operations, and
would exhibit a faiclifiil ll.Sieun'ut
of I lie fit nation of the republic ;
that in the meanwhile it was his
duty to do away the impressions
which caltimnics ngainft that com
mittee may have produced, i eif^f jv.e
totheir expenditures, " calumnies."
said Cambon, " which ive have i {jtid
of t lie hand of the " arm patriot
Brifiot| be reyorter .'iHured,that
tlie committee had hoi yet touched
the IOOjOCp liviqs put info their
hands—neither hs^ci. aii.y part of t,he
fix millions appropriated for lecrec
expences been ex pen,(ted ; neither
any thing; of the funds decreed to
indemnify our allies, for expences
they might lie at to second i he force
of the republic. Cambon oblei ved,
that the employ of this 1a ft menti
oned fund was'rt fiibjert of calum
ny, in order to oblige the commit
tee to explain thcinfelves oil this
fubjecl:, but that the committee
would never impair the fecreis of
this operation. Having called Bi if*
for an infamous libeller, a man con
ne«.led with Pitt, Cambon explained
the difficulties the committees had
to encounter in order to get things
a going ; —" When we began our
said he " the executive
power did not atft, and some parts
of it even yet cannot get to fliew
lufficient activity. The minidry of
Marine is very active ; ihar of war
is a labyrinth, %vhere it is impoHible
to find one's way : I defy any man
from getting through it. The mi
niller of foreign affairs often co-p
---fults with the committee ; yet he it
nor as active as we c6uld wish, aitd
in general it is plaiii, that the li'ii
nifters try to avoid fatigue. The
re union of the miniffry of contri
butions with the national treasury
has been piopofed ; this Union is
neceifary," &c.
NANTES, May 8
Treason appears on every fide ;
we learned ye ft er day ihat a detacih
nienc of 300 men of the ci devant
regiment of Piovence which was
polled at St. Columbin five leagues
hence, has gone over to the rebels,
carrying wich rlieui a colour, one
piece of caniHtto, their arms and
baggage—l his detachment has been
well received by ihe banditti, who
fay tlTat they have nothing agaiuft
the white coats (troops of ihe line)
as ihey were not the cause of the
king's death. They (em bark one
of these soldiers afrer having treat
ed him well, filled his pockets
wiili crowns—This in*n lias rf»a<le a
report to our department, and has
been imprisoned. The rebels wit-h
----in 1 J days have taken 1000 ninfkets,
3 cannon, and t wo aroniuniiion wag
gons. Soldteis are daily sent to sis
but they are unarmed, we arm
t-
*/ ?.»
. • % * < i. ■ i
"V
I^-
-ViV/f.' fb*jr "MLit Hftry iliuig i«
Id ffllrird' utC •
Tiiofe parishes which remain
faithful have f'urniJhed double their
quota of contingent reciuiti—4oo
ot'thefe recraits f'cr off sos- Bielt on
Friday ; they will be incorporated
into the marine. '
MARSEILL E S, May i.
We are now tranquil—the tyran
ny under which we lived is deltroy
ed. The cotnniiflloiiers of the con
ihorsoftb many convulsions have
flcdi The anarchilts and clubs have
either fled or are under arreit. VVe
would have ttrangled theniiu their
lurking place if they had abandon
ed it—bat we have contented our
selves with walling k up. We now
bicathein peace and the reign o
Hie law is begun.
TJeparfment of tht Lou'er Pyrthutet,
txtraft of ;a leiter frOni Bajonne,
May 3.
" ,Xh« beginning of this jiionth
the Spaniards invaded our territory
in force 4 leagues from this city—
Th#y fui prized thevcatnp at Sore,
where we had about 2000 men. Af
tfer a battle of c,too hours they put
our r 111 ai 1 ai niy' to flight, 8 field,
pieces, and remained mailers of the
field. - ■ -
Our fuldiars burnt every instru
ment of encampmenr. . Ha'yftnne is
much alarmed, as we have only l 300
men in garrison, too. (mall a num
ber for wliat may be considered a.
principal key to ihe republic—espe
cially as they are moilly undisciplin
ed national guards. Our citadel is
defended by only one corftpany of
cannoneers of Lot and Garonfie—
they are too inexperienced to de
fend so important a post.
This should be known throaghout
the republic, that means maybede
vifed to oppose an enemy much
more formidable than we imagined.
P. S. General Servan arrived yes
terday—.he is employed in rallying
i:he fugitives, who are numerous—
they are all ordered to- join their
refpedtive corps.
Latest Foreign A dvices.
On Tuesday lafl the Earl of Halifax,
British Packet, Capt. Boulder fori,
arrived at Netu-Tork, in 42 days
from Falmouth. By this vejfel Lou
don papers an received to the pth of
June, extm&s from which JtUom.
COLOGNE, May 26.
ENERAL CUSTINE's attempt to deli-
VJT ver Mentz, though it had hot the d6firsd
fdcteO, yet tn part succeeded. The following
are the particulars of it * On the 16th tuft, he
detached 16,000 men from t ie army of the
Moselle towards Mentz; £nd to occupy the
attention of the Pruilian corps commanded by
the Prince de Hohenloe,an invasion was made
Into Deux Ponts; and about be
tween t?ie 16th and 17th, a corps of 5000 men
also sallied from Landau, and whiUt the de
tached corps filed off by Spires, this corps at*
tacked the Auftrians and the corps of French
emigrants under the Prince de Conde on one
fide, whilst General Cuftine, at the head of the
principal divifton of his troops, attacked them
on the other. The a (ft ion, which took place
011 the morning of the 17th near Belheim*
was very warm J the emigrants defended
themselves with great courage against supe
rior numbers, and the Anftrians ailed with
equal bravery. At the commencement of the
action itHvasTuppofea the French would have
had the advantage, but. the Imperialists and
emigrants remained matters of the field, and
the French were obliged to return to their
former posts without having executed the ob
je& of their attack, which was to penetrate
as far as Mentz. In the French account of
tlie aftioli, they attributed the failure of it to
two battalion* of volunteers, who by mistake
fired on their ownChafleurs, and a third threw
away their arms before they saw the enemy.
The Auftrians in this affcion, which lasted
three hours,had 132 men killed and wounded,
and the emigrants had 60 or 70. The latter
loft four cannou at the beginning of the ac
tion, but they were afterwards retaken.—
Some prisoners were taken on both fides.
One emigrant .ftiot himfelf rather than fuffer
himfelf to be taken. Though Gen. Cuftine
failed in his chief end, he reaped this advan
tage : Gen. Wurinfer the next day thought
aroper to remove beyond Queich, and fix his
camp there ; and the French advanced posts
are now in the place where those of the Auf
trians were.
R H I N E, May 21.
The accounts that,the Ijnperial corps un
der Oeu. together-with the Prujf
fians and Hessians, were obliged, the former 10
croPs the Rhine again from the;diitri£t of Lan*
dau, tWe latter to leave the duchy of Deux
fcoiitrj is fully confirmed. All the particulars
re »► p'eftnt learn «>f thii event are, that the '
Frcnc'u in three columns, attacked the Auf
trians and the corps of Conde near B.liion,
iferxheiiu, anJ Rullheim, and after an action
of three hours, obliged their enemies, who
were much'iiilerior in number, to give w»y_a
Tlie French General Ferrere had pulhed for
ward tu within an hour's march of Spires, but
there he was repulfcd by tlie Imperialist : tbe
lofj of the latter Is reckoned at 130 kilted and
as many wounded.
The corps of emigrant J fiiflered very nil uch,
and loft four picces of cannon, which, ham-'
ever, the Auftrians retook again.
It is laid, that'notwithftanding the advan
tage of this affair rells 011 the lide of tire
French, yet they loft a vast number tpo rente*
than the Aufti'ians and emigrants.
Bv accounts from Marvheiin, the Pfti/ii4c».i
under Coll Siekuli., have t*ken 530
and nine pieces of cannon, near Neueiikircbin.-
The French have again estcied the Be
waldj and their advanced posts reach as far,as
Kuarth.
The advantages gained by the French in
DruxPonU were alto only ol snort duraticr,
a<, by the last accounts we received, tlie PriU_
fi.wi > and Helfiar\s have returned from LsJu
tern by the way of Landftuhl, and again taken
polT lfioii of CarHberg.
The French Tallied from Merifß in the;
night* of the I7th, 2»th,- and 2lft'of kl»is
month ; they attempted the fame twice from
Tvfombach, but were i«puhed.
'Tbfc larlditig of the French at Guftavufwirgh
wi! prevented by Genera] Roiter; 33 oftheir ,
deaf! were found upon Slue Sflami, an# ten
veilVN loaded'with wounded were /'eftt to
Mtjntz. The Iof« of the Germans in the lall
aisUu;i conftfti ins 76 ki ted ntld woundtd, a
moa» whom are' fix Imperial'and PrtilSan
officers.
1 •
I. t T D E N, May *6. . i
By advice triSVeJ front leveful'parts,
aie informed, that the National A-fleiinlily
Have forbid' any communications with Eo
reign States, by a decree to the following im
port r
" That the Director? of the pofti of France
(hall, for'the future, difeontinue all commu
nication with the Dirfc&ors of Foreign Posts.
'j)*flj;o s s e l s, ?
.. Th« follow ioj* official accnunts have beta
reeaiv,od re!p«Sttng the e[>£iati«nj.»ftbe,f otn
bin«d armies. Ctojb the ;orh to the isth of
May. They Bre dated from the h«ad qu*r
tsti ps Prince Cotourg.
Nothing particular occurred between- the
loth and t!ie 23d, the French confining them
selves entirely to entrenching thetnfelves on
all fides,- and the altiejd armies remained qoi
et in their different positions, ivaiting for
their heavy siege artillery, and fur tlie arrival
of fnme mo'e English, Hanoverian, and Dutch
troops;' whb were on their way t;o join thejn.
The French had fortified themfeivei in so .
strong a manner 'in their camps of
Snd' Anzin, and h«d thrown op ftjch «*>!(>,
that tbey appeared impenetrable. ■ PpinCe"
Cobourg, however, notwithftandirg their ex
cellent pofifion, determined to jnake an
tack on the French with the whole of the ar
ray at all points at once, and the " Hole of
the enemy's line, from Orchies to Maubeuge,
was .accordingly on the 23(1 inft. at daybreak
attacked .at the fame moment. The Dutch
troops attacked the enemy at Moucliin,drove
them beyond-Orchies, and took 60. prisoners.
The Pruflian troops attacked them at H»f
non, di ove. them info the Abbey, and took
their fortifications, but could not force them
from the Abbey, 011 account of a large moat
filled with water, which surrounded it. The.
Imperial corps de reserve carried the en
trenchments at A'ubry, and the French, know, i
ing the importance of the post, made a num
ber of dsfperate effjfts the whale: day to re
cover it, bat were always repulsed 'with loli,
and were at last obliged to abandon a flag and
several cannon. The centre aflaulted anjl
carried the redoubts which covered the rigMt
of the brook of Ronelle, near Afaoi, and toot
7 cannon and ton waggons, with ammunition.
The left wing took the entrenchments hear '
MarefchS and Aftre, aiid the redoubts at Vil
lerfpol. In the latter they found & of
cannonj and 4 waggons wfth ammunition ;
and the Imperial troops of Baray took
redoubts and abattis of the enemy on the
caufwayat Quefnov, and pursued the French
beyond the woods of Anfrojpet. Night cool
ing on, Prince Cobourg and Gen. Clair fait
thought it proper to let their troops reft from
the fatigues of the day, with a determination
to attack the ne\tmorningearly the camps of
Fatnars and Anain ; but when the troops tile
next morning (the 24th) went to attack them,
they found the enemy had through terror,
during the night abandoned them entirely.
Part of the French forces threw tliemfelvcs
into Valenciennes, which the allied armies
immediately inverted, and part retired by
Denain to Bouchain and Cambrai. The
Piuffians alfotunnd the abbey of Hafnon eva-
cuated, which they took pofleffitra ofV ant!
went in pursuit of the enemy as far as Mat
chiennes. The French had m the coitrfe ps
the different attacks on the 23d, about aocb
men killed and wounded. The latter "tocjc
♦ 300 prilbfters, among whom were a gcneial
and 20 officers.
Prince Cobourg's army is encamped to the
right of the Scheldt, his right wing at Cviaing,
and his left at Tricht; the corps.de ve.ferve
under Gen. Clairfait occupies the left of the
Scheldt, and extends from Auiry to Tricht.
The i«t Valenciennes endeavors to
disturb t!ie advanced ports, but.-to no pin po*e.
F R A N K F O R T, May 20. .
The fapidiadyanrcf at CuAinr, at.ihe tifad ps
an ar ;y fa id'to confill of 120,000 lias created so
genera 1 an appicheufiou aiKt coufua'uu through.
490
mitthta<&y'i prineipM inhaW'lartts ire
ien><wing wi.h ihetr cffidi ti> i place »f more
l»fcry. -
Tht Cownandantof Ment*, in a cortfWtuce'
w>irb the Duke ot Brunfwickj agreed to evacu--
,af.!hc pi ace, .provided ihe gai nf«m-was petont
»cd Lp.rTMteli out with the honors of wa*, a. day
apposed for the p.urp-ofe ; it is -however
more than probable that the success of Cuftitie
may alter -his intentions.
The-principal body of the enemy has since
the action at Famars, ralliedifi *He neighborhood
of Bouchain ; another party is forming at Don
ay : the second body, above 20,000 strong, is
' ported at the damp o4 Madeline, before Lifl-,
T6, .cover that city ; a.third, less coiifider-
WW'r, Tfc fermeii rn MikiVime Flahdcr*', to obfervc
•the e<rfny in-tto*t qnarfer; Thcfe dtfpofifio|»j
announce a defence which mis ft-be piodofcl-vc of \
. and prpvei that 4i-.-pc»ojtfit
to multiplied, ani,we fear, mfntmourM-,
difficulties than the attempt to conqucr
France, by arms, could not have been.conceived.
May 24. Yettnday the King of Pruflia was »n
th«s cirv, anfl (his day some troops ar
rived t&|o*in our garrison.
'J - ' •!
' P A R I S, May 22.
Declaration made by the Prcfdcvt of the A\tional
Convention to the Fjenck Nation.
■ 11 Citizen 1 ;,
" *Fhe frandaloat scene whieh has }uft paf
<!ed in the tribunes, convinces me of the
* truth of a conspiracy which has been revealed
to :ne by many good citizens, who, fearing
tn# poignards of afTaffins, have refuted to
make their names public. I (frail now de
velope this plot ! Legators, people, be at
tentive !—vour lafetv is concerned !
v " tW ariftocracjr and the Toalijion of
kings, irnd tremble at their inability to friateh
from us our liberty by the force of a rips* are
now preparing to destroy it by an intrigue
carried on by gold. Thefc were the days ap-
for the execution of their plot ; and
what pallet) yesterday and to d.iy in the ha.'l
are o«^preliminaries it. -TJiia
cy has been formed for the fame porpofe as
that of the 10th of May ; they wifti to deftrov
the convention by tn fur region, and this is
their plan 6f execution.
ii The conspirators aftei* having for a long
time prepared the minds of the people by
crafty speeches cloathedin patriotic Jangoace,
have milled th« members of the . popular ft>-
cieties, of the cunftituted authorities, and
even of.(he Convention itfelf, lo as alinoft to
have petfuaded them that to favethe country,
a new infiirreftlon was neceflary. This in
furre<sti.on hns been organized by. clandestine
committees,. Every thing is preconcerted
atfd arranged. The disorder which they have
created in the Convention, will fer.ve as a
pretext for their projected riot. The wo.-
men too lend their afliftance, many of whom
have been farmed into regiments for this in
iquitous undertaking—-at the moment when
their mifguidect arms are uplifted for the de
ftru&ion of their country, they endeavor to
perfiiade us that they are employed in saving
it-f
M A great majority of the Citizen®, it Is
rue, have not been f. duced ; but our ene
nieshave succeeded in making fanatics of
hat credulous part of the people, who, more
remarkable for tbeir virtue than their under
standing, are easily milled, They have also
attempted to persuade the Volunteers, who
are going to Vendiee, that they ought not to
depart till after the execution of their prp-
" The iirfflrgents are t6 execute, on the
Members of the Convention and other Citi
zens, the proscriptions which have been or
dered bv their leaders. The proscri
bed will necelTarily find some defenders; a
cohibat will enfne, and such Menibers of the
Convention as (hall have been led astray, will
b» theni(elves maffbcred. The National Re
presentation will then be deftrayed ; the
flahies of civil war will break forth, and the
depaftments and the armies will be divided.
f" A prey to anarchy, there no longer re
mains to France a rallying point. Duung
th«fe intervals, all the armies at the feme
time attack our frontiers, the Aristocrats
Jljew themselves, and the Counter-revolution
is effected.
u Citizen*, this is the ahyfs into which vou
aT ® ® 1 b ?. 0t1:0 1,6 precipitated, "if, notwith-
that yon hate just heard, you per.
fi#in foWowi'ng the'inftigations of thfcfe' who
tnifiead Votf- ■ I' clfll heavbfi to. »itbefs, it is
fur'ynuV welfare 4)<<ne that I fpenlt—lf you
'tfcnld bb'ttoni of'my heart, you would
fhfte (Afcover W<r ihuch I abhor slavery
few mucl) I adore liberty. It is (he who at
this moment inspires me.
" I owe to my country the declaration that I
have made—l have discharged iny cmifcienc'e,
and, firm at my post, I wait the event.
" I love the people too well not to use mv
utmost endeavors to lave them frrm the ef
fects of their own madness ; and if in the cx
cefs <?f their blir.dnef's it rtiou'd happen, that
in this chair I ihonkl receive their attacks,
covered with wounds I will still offer up mv
prayers for their happiness, and my last words
fliall be " O God. prelerve the liberty of my
country, and pardon those murderers, they
know not what they do."'
(Signed)
In my letter of the 20th y to you, }i 1.1
wre b "' the moma,tar :f \xpcaati<m of an
awful andtremendous crisis ; and never -was the Rate
•f this metropolis so critical as it is at the present
moment. By the aidrefs of the President of the
Convention to tie people,you will perceive ho-w mat
ter, are csreumjlanced, and in addition to this Rate
merit, lake 'he flln-ain? particulars '
The populace ajfe.nhle in great Mbs, and ieame
more ant mere riotMs and importunate. Ttn ex
prcf, their deflation of the present Jate of thir, -s,
ca.l out for taivs and government, and in the Intt'f
toe Convention the legijlators are at <acb f.uim- in
fu.ted by the galleries.. J 4
I#*** taftrr .
b n dcd by the »></**viru atL,,
i.UvO Citizens of all rank,, fa
immediate dec'tfton fiecejf.iry. '
Boulanger, ibe »,1L commandant general, i„
M"< firrfmng tfc mu ck danger and difceu'ty at
fbc preftnt crift,, in the post of honor aJ,,n,d'toh im
. Ibe department, arc j„ a fate liUt, better than
that of the metropolis. MarfeiUe,feem, ~ baver*.
nc-wed the plan of«federativefyftm of tbc father*
provinces m The felUn, of that city have got th,
better of the adverse party, and co-operate ■with tbofe
oj Bourdeaux ; many of tb, citizens bavt.fed, and,
greater number are apprehended and imp refined.
ItnvatyeJlcrJay announced in the Vonvention, that
no ' Cr ".n "* " di t'- ,nati ' mijLn to
GonflaxtinofUi Bai blen apprtkended on bis way iJ
toe rt.lfta-w of Bosnia * . 3
; 'Tbefuccef i'thf Sparing, hn'tiifriHrtei-y /4 ,
Pyrennu, has b.-tn rapid, They hdve nnde afnond
irruption in tic toiver department of the r* rennet;
have pojfrjj'ed tbemfelve, of St. 'jean de Llrz, and
threaten an attach on ,Bjyonne, in the vicinity of
■tuh ch city, it ba, beenf.ltyl in the "Jacobin,, thrt
have made their landing good to the number of tin
tbovfand. They have obtained a complete vifiory
over the troops of the Republic, at Stars.
National Convention of France
1 Mat j-z.
GENERAL CUSTJNE.
The following letter wa-read from this officer.
IVtijfembturg, May 18.
" O N t!lc l6th 1 reut orders to Genl. Hou
\J chard to attack Setnbach with his
whilst General Pully attacked the Piufliansat
Pertnertieim. In order iq attack the Pruffiant
with greater fucctfs I propagated a report a
n ongft them that I was reinfpr.-ed with cavalry
from the army of the Mofeile, andalfo with at.
tillery Irom Stralbourg.
" On the 16th, at eight o'clock at night, I
marched with 16 battaliuns, th.es regiments of
drasroons and five of caval.y, to take pott on tht
hei«hti of Denhcim. Tk<- tattle began it half
past five the following morning. Ouf artillery
had great ess. A. '1 lie battle a I ftrft was much
in our favor, but while our infant: y were form
«T> a regiment of our cavalry rode up toward»
them,V. hich a battalion of our troops taking for
the enemy, ran away and could not be rallied.
I did every thing to llop their flight but in vain;
and in runniHg off they Ihot at our troops and
behaved like cowards.
(Signed)
Copy of a letter from the Commiflioners of ihe
National Aflcmbly.
. " Head Quarters at Nartucp y TO
•* BEING arrived at the army of flic Moldle
on the 16th, we fourd that a battle was about
to take place. Wedefcended from our carriage
and got onhorfeback to iollow our brave troops
" Having advanced some distance, our -light
ii?fantty met the Pruflians at Neukirchen. Our
troops fought them within pistol Jhot. The
enemy soon retired. General Houchard order
ed a regiment of dragoons to advance, while out
light trAops. attacked.the village. The Prolfi*
ana however, thought fit not tOuWait*. ajtfl rail
off.
" Our troops pursued them to the valley o(
Hombourg and Carlfberg, when they hoped the
Prussians would make a stand and fight. We
waited an hour, however no enemy appeared.
Oor general finding the Prufiians would not
fight, and being unwilling to tire our troops,
ordered a retreat.
" Nothing can equal the regret of our troopi
at not fighting: they were mortified at being
ordered to retreat; and it wa» only in assuring
them that another opportunity would soon oi
fer, that they were persuaded to fall back.
" We have only to add, that w hilll we have
such brave defenders of our country, we need
not fear our enemies.
In the jacobin Sittings of the 24th, Ke,!ler
niann appeared among them, which created
murmuis and applause; After a good deal of
tumult, he said he was come among them to
take an path that he would die Tn the fertfke ot
the Republic \Vi olent —Some Member#
cried out, Dumourier had done the fame.
We have notatprefent time to enter into a
detail of thisfittiug, but it was decreed at length,
that in future no Jacobin fliould be obliged to
take an oath, for the word of an honourable
man was fufficiently binding. '
Club of Cordeliers.—May 16.
Varlet, an Apoftie of Liberty, proposed the
following measures, which were adopted by
the Club, who proposed to remain permanertt
till their execution.
i. To lend Couriers into all the Depart
ments, there to found the tocfw.
2. To commence an Infurredion at Paris,
arid to contrive within twenty-four hours af
ter its commencement, that it shall be the last.
3. To guillotine instantly all the Brifio
tines.— And,
4. To levy on all the rich, fuchJLoontribu
tion as Ihall ibon become a compeffnt fund ta
the needy.
May 18. Gsneral Miaczienflci, condemned
to die, had made, a member observed, 'impor
tant declarations, on which the Sovereign
People ought to judge—some of the Lejnfla
tor:, either of the Mountain or the Valley,
may thus turn out to be traitors.
" ISNARD."
[t was reported that a general meeting
should be held next day (the 19th) to address
the Convention 10 pass a Decree of Accusation
agai'iffc all the GironcJines, and to have them
tried by the Revolutionary Tribunal ; and to
enact that the poor ftin.ll be indemnified, at
the exoenceof the rich, for the excessive dear-
ness ofprovifions.—•All the Popular Sack
t'i? Municipality, the Sections, and th<
pie, to carry up this Address.
" CUSTINE."
Mir 14.
« MARIBAUT,
" mo'ntat,
•' SOUBRANY,
" MAINET.">5 D, 9 J*,. May 2,7-; ,1.
Yefteiday, at. uitie as ingltt* C*(4j Caw far &, .
arrived at. l-hr fecictaiy ot Rate's office, with lei
teis Iro.n fir James Murray, which ftatc,.that on
th 23H, a general attack #« iwiit upon the
French tn their camn at Famar.'; and that, alter
an aftton ot five hours, the French were beatin
with considerable lots. About 300 prisoners
and ten pieces of cannon were taken. -None of
the British officers were killed or wounded :
only 2(5 non-cotnmiffioned officers, and about
000 of the combined aimies, fell.
June 3. The Leyden Gazette of the sSth May,
contains the following article :
MANUEiM,Mayi9- The neceffuy of fuc
couting Menu, blockaded on all fides, seems to
have induced General Outline to make an effort,
in which he has fuccecdjd beyond all expeifa
tion. We are this dav intoi oird that, having
advanced ax the jieao of a numerous army, Jie
attacked general Wurmfe-, an.d obliged hiir,
after a vigorous ret£(Un;r, to retreat beyond
Q'leicb ; mat he altei wards caused a part of hit
lorces to attack the corps yf uie Piufiian army,
tinder the command of the herrdi'aiy Prince of
Hohehlohe, at Carlelbnj, 111 ihe Duchy of Deux
Pints; who abandoned this iinpo.tant poll tu the
Ficnph. We expett the date, coofir uiaiioii.arid
particulars of the fee vents.
7trnt 7. The Carl ot Carlisle is !o be appoint
ed tecreiiiy l^e depaitment,
in the room of Mr. Dttudts.
By dilpatches arrived yetlerday by lire Lisbon
mail there advice.that the Spaniards have been
on the trench territoiy in the Pyrcnnees ever
finee the 17th of Apnl ; that in several anions
the, have defeated the French, and taken fever.l
car>Mon The Spaniffc fleet, confuting of 25 fail
of the line, was tn Cantilena, waging for Lord
Hood, under whose ordeis ri\ey are to art.
Several Enotifl. gentlemen in Parts hive lately
been denounced at tl* committee of fafety, for
having been more free tn then conduit and con
version again!! the pref ni Order ot things than
•w.s prudent; ..nnltgft the number is Captain
Grimflmi, of Yorkfhue, toimerly of the guards,
aod ru>w an ha.t-psy ofliwr. He v*ouUi have
lieen inillriiiru-it fonie time »£O. bad n«r- 1 ho
mas Same (who was the petfotr whom, he chief
ly rcproached) in ihe moll liberal wanner exert
ed himself lot ave his lite. .
fm.t 8. Mail. riue-Tweniv-one Ftcnch, one
Dublin, and one Watcrlord. -
Last night at 9 o'clock, Mr. Major, one of the
king's meTffe« s et., arilvfd at the fccietary of
state's office, Whitehall,.,w»h letters trom hn
royal hbhn.fs the Duke ol York, in the Bnuih
ramp near.Valenciennes, which place he leti on
Tifsidiy "afternoon, when the Brtt'.lh troops had
cut an entrenchment of ncaily a tti le in length
— they were all tn high faints, hut had not-made
any aitack on the enemy, on information being |
that Aey'-h;>'d formed a'mVrte between the '
ciicrtinpftieiu cud the walls oftht larrtfoft.
' By private tenets Irom Oftend we hear the
important tnformitioo, that in a paper of the
Moni>eur, of the 31ft toll, it is ftatVd, thai.op the
i *6th, Gallon, at the he«d of the Breton Royal
had rained a very AtJvauug.e over
f , • lblicamneighborhood of Fonte-
oi which it was apprchend-,
it Rjt\ M 'e mult fall into the hands of the.
m"frbnl Mtfyinee, Hitfd the
i>nrtft»«i> lii<?
W ". ; vc
happei.
ft is colli ntfy said, tfiat the fcafttty of gr«fin
is so much fell in fbme pans of Spain, that they
)iaVc been obliged to gnikl the (hells of nutts,
as a fubftnutc tor bread.
The letters from Holland, brought toy the mail
wfaifch arrived yrfterday. mention that acconnrs
were arrived there from Pans, that the Counter
Rcvolummiftj, under, ihe inch k| Gallon, had ad
vanced as far as yvuhin 45 leagues of Paris..-
Extra?}#! a fetter jrom Self ast, June 1
41 Trade is here at the lofevlt ebb ; themilifi*
a& is opposed by fofce of arms by the Catholic
pcafjnti y in ,th (oat hern and middle counties,
and is very unpopular here ; and in this town
the military are rio'ing and behaving with grear
uifoieijc- and licentiou fuel's. Private dilheffei
•btoib molt people's attention.V /
Extract 9J q left rfrom OJlend, May 31.
" We have now a force in this town ol
4000 men fit for fervicc, including 790 dragoons
juil amytd."
abridgement
OF THE
of POLITICS
iIATE
FOR "THIS WEEK.
IF the last week seemed to be a week of tran
quility, and diftinguilhed, not for a multiplicity,
bur by a paucity of what are called news, or in
tcreiling events, the present week, like a storm
after a calm has manifefted various wrecks of
the hofhle and furious paffiont of contending
nations, and of civil discord.
The great effort made by the Fiench army
under
CUSTINE
to raise the ficge of Mayence, and eventually
that of Cafiel, has been attended, with great
Uaughter on both fides. The object of this effort
has not, indeed, been completely attained, but
the French are not To much straitened as they
were before in their quarters. 1 heir advanced
post being now in poflciHon of the lame ground
that was formerly occupied by .their invaders.
On the northern and eaftcrp frontier the
French arms have likewise made a fuccefsful
/ally ; they })av« seized and plundered the town
of Furnek, and beat J»ck the Austrian and Ha
noverian troops to Gftend. In a word, the
French, from the vivacity of ; thai t ipiric with
which they are aAuat«;d, and their refuurces
and numbers, if they fuffer difaaer and iofa in
one piacL*, gain advantages in another.
On the other fide, the fptrit of their oppo
nents, the confederated armies, is equally per"
fevering, and their refonrces as abundant. From
ENGLAND
they have received at the port of Oftend the
rood fe-afoi bit and encouraging supplies of
troop>, animanirion, arms and proviiion. Ia
the don-.imoi, of Austria and Pruflia, and other
pam of Germany, new levies »r$ couftautly
fiip;>li:». pewrvt >a sfr efcj.
iiito. the devourmg. flama-of war. . t-iur ar« tUc'
FRENCH LOYALISTS -
to be confiJeted as the Ic*ft enemies ;
t& the National Convention. Ln Brittany the
successes of that, honed and- brave dafs of mjjn .
seem to be on the increase; whitethefpirit With
which they are animated is eveff «#rd and
more widely difFufed; of which we haVe a tcin
fpicuous proof and cxairipld in thfc voluntary
surrender of
THREE FRENCH. SHIPS OF WAR
to the governor of the Spanifti Island of St. Tri
nadad. If there be any truth in the report that
an army is on the point of being sent the aid
of the Bretons, from the Empress of Russia, the"
spirit of loyahy will -blaze forth in France wiilf
ilfll greater rapidity. i
- But whatever truth there may be In Ehii im
port the cause (if moderattt<Tmonarchy in Ffante
will doubtlffs derive no fmali countenance apd
support from the Britifti fleet that has failed ijn
der
ADMIRAL LORD HOOD
into the Mediterranean, the probable ol>je& of
which is the reduction ojf iQorfica. That the
importance of this iiland to Great-Britain may
be rightly understood, it is to lie observed, that
with the-capital and industry of JBrltjlh mer
chants and planters, it is capable of producing
"as much coffee, cotton, silk and oil, as this coun
try consumes; & that it is already stored with as
much wood as would go a great way towards
maintaining the Britilh fleet for more than half
a century. Here it is natural to recoiled that
another island, producing cotton, coffee, See.
has been lately restored U» the Britilh empire.
It is needless to remind our readers that weal
lude to the capture of the iiland ofj w
TOBAGO
in the Weft-Indies. While new fields are thus
opened to Britiih enterprize and cultivation j it
would certaiply be ra(h and impolitic to indulge
top,great a spirit of fpcculation on the fubje& of
a nun mediate and totai abolitiou of slavery. »
In the course of this week the part that
AMERICA
is to take on the present theatre of politic* has
been ai'certained; Ihe is, very prudently, to ob-
|-ferue au €xa& neutrality.
The formation and embodying of a militia,
■which is granted to Scotland as a matter of fa
vor, is, itfeems, confideredin !
IRELAND
as an obje& of diflikej and a fubjedt of cord
plaint and eveu of infurre&ion. On the otca
fion of his
MAJESTY'S BIRTH-DAY,
the fame spirit of loyalty appeared that has beer
strikingly manifeftedamong all ranks of Britift;
fubje&s, ever fmce the King's indifpdfitiort et»
cited their fears for his fafety, and the intrigue
of French agitators their apprehensions fdr thai
of the'Bfitiih conttitutionj even tountry far
mers exprefled their loyalty by fireworks ace
other tellimoriies of joy. "■» j
Phliad£l^hia^Auguft
ABSTRACT OP FURTHER " j
EUROPEAN INTELIIGEWCEy f
BY THE PACKET.
THE details of French affairs in the Ebglijh
papers received by the Backet, are *ery trtrpei
feft — particularly relpetting Pari?, and the in
ternal commotions—this may be accounted for,
from the interruption of the intereourfe between
England and Fiance*— At the time c 4 the Pack
rt's failingror the date of the lail papers, no lejfs
:han 21 French mails appear to have been dtijf.
The address of M. Iznard, Prefideot of lie.
Convention, to the people, alludes t<* some eX
cesses, accounts of which do not appear in the
English The resolutions of ihe CJubof
•he Cordeliers, may have given rife to it — thry
oropofed founding the Tocfui in all the Depart,
snents, See. See.
The number of Bankuiotcies in Eogland,
January ift to May 28, amount to 64 a.—
Paris was tranquil ttie 20'h May. M-oa.. has
denounced Le Brun, the Fiench M ini ft<4 at
War. The pnfon ot the Abb ye is again filled. ,
Gen. Miranda is acquitted, Get". Miaciietiffcj,
and Philip D vaux, one of Dumoiincr'-s »ds cfe
camp, are gudlrrtiried. Gen. V »lence.i« t'rt Loft
don, The army of the eaftcru Pyren. e* is com
manded bv Gen. D-ller*. Count d'Artoitfha*
I>C '•» in England, but has not. fuccrecHd vl? .'his
negotiation ; which, »t is w«*s v to prevail on
the t > pay Ru (Tuns, to be em
ployed against France. Sweden has determined
on a ftrift during the present wai.-<-
Embarkations of troops horfc and fo<y % corn i;-
nue to be made from England. Trie trial of
M. d'Orleans commenced at Marfcilles |he' 3d
of Mav. Ttie PiufTuns have been again driven
from Deux P >n's, winch is in pofFctH >ri of ihe
French. All communication wirb' foreign
S *trs is forbidden by the Convention. At-
I tempts we c ttreiy <n Dublin toafTuflin.itfc
| L; »'d Mountjoy ind Lord Btllamont. One art
! the iaigeft ruanufaduriug houses in Manendi f
h'S again fci to work the hands that had been
difmifled. Two Dutch <egiments were defeat
ed by th French before Lift:, and cut to pieces,
the few prifonerg taken were carried into that
city ; the Dutch fought with desperate bravery.
On the 31 May the French furpriacd and tool*
•the fortrefsof Furnes, garrisoned by 1100 Dutch
and Auftnan tioops, and drove them fro**
thence ; they 'oak poll" (fion of the town and ail
the military (lores, carried off the Bailiff and
Magistrates, plundered the town, and raised a
contribution of 600 oxen, Iheep and horses, and
evacuated the pla:e, 10 which the Dutch
returned in greater force next day. Advices
from the combined armies under Prince de Co
bourg, to the 4th June state, that nothing of im
portance had transpired since the 23d Mav, ex
cept breaking ground by the English within
cannon (hot, before Valenciennes. The batte
ries of the allies before Mentz, are brought so
near, that 11 pounders carry into the citadel.—
A proportion lor opening a negociation for
pcacc with England appeal»lo have been made
491
F en'.'h Myv ft .f r^r lexers.
'u • h iw, Jifcj[,j• iL hiv..- i)Cf mpu i>h ih -'dJ a Jfte li*t g
l-Mh p-p.rj., tfddrclftd .10 Lotd GiAiuvi.Ut, mi'ua
t UiU »»j.*pr^rs.
T e inhabitants of have taken the
. new oath to the K»n& of Prullia under cir
cu.nflunces aC much #omp and joleifinity. —
T ; be important fortrels of Kaminieck capital
of Podoiiajn Poland, has surrendered to the
Ruffians,; all thole who were difaffedted to the
new order of affairs had taken refuge there,
they jnuft in jconlequence leave the kingdom.
The accounts of Geo. Cuftine's late move
ments appear involved in much contradiction
a,nd>obfcuvity—for while tli<£ paragraph wri
ters lay that he has an army of 120, 000 men >
> all before him—*aod tiiat the li«ig c
of ivientz wi.ll certainly be • railed in cowfe
quer.ee of his -vitftpry- on the »6th May.— "
Neji r b«r hisown -letter.,. noT><hat- of the Com -
miffioners giving an account of the action of
that day represent their success as complete,
• but rather the reverfc.. The taking of the
camp of Famars took place 7 days afterCJiii
f-ine's attack on the army before MentZpS**
'A letter from Frankfort of the 2lit May,
/ fays that the French were defeated on the
f6th in an attempt to pass the Rhine near
GeiTeren:
DecreroJ the National Convention, on the gth Md).
French ships of war and privateers .may
ftorp, and fend into the ports of the Republic,
such neutral (hips as shall be found loaded, in
the witole or in p*rt, either with proVisions
belonging to neutral powers loaded for the
enemy's ports* or goods belonging to the ene
tfefV Goods belonging to the enemy are de
tla red lawful prizes, and,forfeited to the pro-
Raptors. Provisions belongfng to
neutral powers shall be paid for upon the foot
ing of their value in the place for which they
were destined. In all cafes,neutal ships (hall
be reloafed frpin the moment <>f the unloading
r ofjhejn-qvi'fuons that may be flopped, or the
goods which may be seized. The freight of
them fiiall be paid at the rare stipulated by the
shippers. A just indemnification shall be
granted according to tbe>r detention, by the
tribunals that take coguizance of the prizes.
• The Ambuscade Fngate failed fiom New-
York Werinefday morning. Thursday morn
ing a firing was heard in that city ; and yeftcr
day it was reported in town, that some gentle
man from the Teifivs had seen rh£ A«nbu<cade
and Bo Ron engaged ; that (he a&ion I a (ltd three
quarters of an hour, during which the latter loft
•her tort-top-mail, and was fern to fheef off.
vStnce the above account was received, we hear
an expreis has arrived from New-York to the
French Miniftcr, confirmingthe fame—with this
addition, that the Ambuscade had repaired the
| damage fl»r fuftaincd in the a&ion, and was in
i piirfuitof the Boston. .
Ytfftfcrday came up the liver and anchored
opposite the city, the French Frigate La Serveil
lantej of'4o guns, and the fVi»-p Le , Norma ndir,
armed en flute ; both (hips fired salutes, which
wf?t'retumed by a.detachment of- the Artillery,
wi*h*w/> brak, L3L uoundei.^-ixora High-ttrfict
wbaif, and by repealed hutzas from a great
numbfit of citiztn& colle&ed on the occasion.
We hear that Capt. Barney, Of Baltimore, in
a (hip from the-Cape, was captured by two
Providence privateer?, who put ten hands on
boards-leaving Barney and three hands
in his own (hip, who found means to
condufi her to her originally destined port,
Baltimore.
j
A Baltimore paper fays, Capt. Porter, of
the Revenue fitter, 011 the 2Jth, 26th and
37th inft. seized' 14 fail of Coalting and bay
veiTels, for breach of the revenue laws.
A velfel from Barbadoesbrings an account
that Admiral Gardner has failed for England,
having previaufly ordered two frigates to
cruize on the coaits of the United States.
fxliaH oj a Utter from Bcjlon, July 28.
•«* Ynii will fee by the papers that this
tow'n has been in great agitation the week
psift, in'conlequence of a Small schooner that
wat/itiing with arms, &c. to cruize agaiuft
the Engl ; fh. The United States Attorney is
Judking after two Americans said to be fon
ferned—A brig arrived this afternoon from
P'trt-au PilHCe brings an account of a bloody
action between the whites and inulattoes, Sec.
the whifes loft Bdo on the spot.—The ship
Colombia is arrived from Canton and the
North Weft coast, all well.
The fallowing paragraph is taken from a
Niagara paper of July 4.
The Commlfljoners from the United Stetes
left Navy Hall on Thursday last, and we un
derftund were toproceed to Fort Erie, to em
ha'k 011 board his Majesty's (hip the Dunmore,
which is ordered to attend them, to the ob
ject of their miifion.
COMMUNICATIONS.
ff <;an no longer b«* doubted, »h*t fhnoM the
«»n!ifccle>al Junto carry their points, there will
no longer be trhcr foreign peace or dornelltf
.tranquility lor the Un'itd >,<)'«. 1 -
1 T —
W;wr a bk-fffd principle is that which im
>els votaries to precipitate ih ir country from
the Cumaitt of general happinelt to the abyss of
h/J.man nnfery !
loJ.lr addrclCri, rcMution* and other public
ind people,.w- are to
look lor me general fcntitnent of the mAjontyr—
\ht»is fitm ground. The nmdelty of t.;ofe who
arrogate to thcmfelves the fenfi- of the people in
their incendiaiy, anonymous fLudcii on the go
vernment, and on the diflinguiflie.' 1 . patriot* of
Che coon try, ts abundantly apparent !
When the government of the people is to
be alftiled and deitroyed, then the people in
contradiftin&it'H from t.'ie govt*riitne/it, are
all in all—but, when the peopie t v.e forward
in liipport of their own gover/ . ent on any
occ#fion—this for Tooth is a refle&ion on the
goverintent a* wanting energy—the very
principle to which the dforgaaiaert of tUe
day feel the itrougeft antipathy.
fHOMTHE NATIONAL GAZUTM.
J V !>' T.J C E,*
An abulive Scribbler.
Quid jacient domini, audentcam tulia fures. Virg.
r PHE man that doth an elephant pursue,
X Whole capture gains a noble frier.
Amid (he chace heeds not the barking a ew,
Or lelTer game of rats and mice.
On ocean's wastes who chace the royalflag %
Stop not to take the privateer ;
Who Sims to ieize the steed, rtegWl* the nag;
No squirrel hunt will cAtcjra deer.
A blockhead's venom ever (pits in vain :
To honour's coat no drop adheres—
Go wretcM*-*:o white-.walh'd' fqui res dilclofe
your pnin,
Your tiny gods, and godling peers.
The little itbts, that ftiut in courtly guise,
May vile abuse thro' uu impart ;
But I—that on no Trea'ury »ean, d.v'piffe
Ypur quill, and canker'd heart* >
Mark'd for her prey, with viflon quick and
keen
The gaflic gem as ihall pursue,
Gonlign your weazon to the
And givv the, dogs their due.
Gazette of United States of July 24.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVEDatthe PORTpj PHILADELPHIA,
Brig SaHy, O'dlin,
Schi. tnduftry, Thatcher,
Sloop Richmond, Harden,
La Duracie', P l!iflieur t
» Endeavor, Smiiih r
PRICE .OF STOCKS.
6 per Ccr.ti, 18f
3 per C "ntt,
Dei'ci ictl,
Full Aiares Bank 11. S.
War Department,
Atigufl 1 //, 1793.
INFORMATION is hereby given to all the
Military Invalids of the United State®, that
the sums to which they aie intitled for fix months
of iheir annual ptnfion, from the 4th day of
March last, and which will become due on the
sth rtf September nfxt, will be paid on the said
day by the CoumtiHlonera of the Loans, wnh
in the States refpe&ively under the usual regu
lations.
By Command of the
President of thr Usitjjd Stated.
H.KNOX, Secntary at
N. S. The Primers in she refptdive States are
rcquefted to pui/i/h the above in tkat newspapers for
the Jpacevf two month*.
American Stocks.,
THE of the United Stales of Ame
rica being, in propoiUon to their Debt,
probably superior to iWofr of any European Go
vernment ; and they having made ample Provi
sion for the Payment ol the Iwereft of their
Stocks, only two Arrangements more ftietn ue
ceHary to make them a very eligible Property to
People in this Country ; viz.
i ft. To make them trait.jerablt it» London ; and,
2d. To provide Means for paying the lvtereji or
Dividends,m London t punctually on c certain Day
without Expetice.
Toaccomplifh these two Obje&s, the annexed
Declaration is rublifbed, %ud an Office is kept
under the Dirc&ion of the Trustees, by Mr.
Mark Leavenworth, where constant attendance is
given, for the Purpofc of receiving Stock, and
making Transfers.
,The Dividends will be received in America
by the Trustees, and will be paid quarterly by
the LONDON and MIDDLESEX BANK,
Stratford-place, London, (as mentioned in the
Declaration of the Trustees,) on the Firflt Days
of January, April, July, and October,* without
»ov Dedu&ion. *
It is hoped that ihef# will render
making Transfer! and receiving D'v deads as
convenient as at the Bank of England, or any
other piace. Peifons who wish to purchase
American Stocks, or to tran£2& any other Buf>»
ness in them, by applying perfonaßy at thf
Office, or by Letter to Mr. Leavenu:ortk % will be
carefully attended ».o.
freeman'S'Chtr.'tCHfiJtitt, May i 6» 179J-
DECLARATION OF TRUST,
WE, Gerard Noel Edwards,Samufl
Smith, Georce.Timpleb,
Middleton. Richard John *0 n, and Johjt
"Wedgwood, Eiquires, Banker :
At the Requelt of futtdry Peifons, have con
fenttd and agreed to hold in Tiuft for them «n£
others, for the Space of Twenty Year?, (peb
American Stocks as they lhal!, from Time to
Timr, transfer to us. Arid (Security having
been given by us for the ?u»pofe) we engage to
receive the Dividends, that may be paid in
America, on all foch Stock as (hall be so trans*
fered to us in Trust, and to pay the fame to the
several Proprietor, at our B tukmg.Houfe, in
Stratford-place, London, Three Month#afiei we
{ball have received the fame in America, at'tb*
Kate of Four Shillingsanr* Bix«prive? Sitni ugfor
each Dollar tectived, without any Dcdu&ion.
For the Purpose of Transfering the said Stock
to the T»uftees and from Individuals to each
other, an Office is opened in Freeman's-Couri,
Coinhill, where regular Books are kepi under
our Infp(£)ion and Dircdfitin. We,farther de
clare that we will transfer to any Pcrfon or
Persons his, her, or then,. Slocks wheu rtquirtd
so to do.
J.o»dtm, May 15Ih, 1793.
GERARD NOEL EDWARJ*.
SAMUEL SMITH.
CJ?O*CJETKMJ>IER.
NATHANIEL MIDDLETOIf.
RICHARD JOHNSON.
JOHN WEDGWOOD.
mm
m
m
Baibadou
; . ■Soften
H. Providence
Virginia
GiMtae**
II J
5 [Per ce*t, ?dv»N£*VA» * {V. J.) July 24.
ixfra-V jrffpt the f ''los '' ' PAltil'jlli.
M IE / Y . / ifie. t v - . 0) A iw. tk, f r f ram Mug
oujtuioj J\o/il L r t"'vy. jsy i3j ».;tj3
...j-aAWECIAfc*WiMWr«IG.;-
tl«s
t*•<!**% *•
-
*•-
vis . , . -'
famHm,'vumittiijl) fcfi'vtd. That *
to wait upon'l^'lnKfiW
t»,itvoTrt.}i H»)| with a sub cnptlfl"'fiW tßfc
•WeTOfite JfftfeSVil'titiMns of CajJe-tS , »n" ! -
cnis—-Ajid that tlift amount of Uie
fciption receivcjil m
t» *0 ti* ottleT of tfce
Miliifter, and to be i»«icii
fliaH judftc luuft. bencfifta) fef/
the la i nt«i[i2Cii>.
.. '-the Rsv.Dt. Macwfi«i»rff ( -
the n, \V ill'.ant PsartreftSffiitl;,',
Efij. «ml }
above pujWe. ;. ' '
Mr- Boudinut fwai
for promoting Ufi'tui Pi&iuiTatfUi<*©*', laid the
following report brt'ore .1 . .
TiAit fbi SWuv.iker* in jtlje t.nvu iftiewi. 5
a-k haveiUlbdatt4f^^jii^^ l V d 'W*™-
fciyey.uo * aMd 1
gh»<innWut. Tke pr'nf
cipaletjcrftj of which are to?ft?»rtJrage-tharj
iaci*aCu|; br.iticlt »»f to pre
voirtitt>ofllWr the fate 'V
frdMrriftive & *fc*«Wil«tiM|jicli,' ;
iittfcoenii d«(lroy it if remedied.[f*ti4
Shoenixikerj wifc the rd of this Soc.ifty ti»
give efficient jftothtir m4afure» Wlat ai in ay :
be in ifj ptpcr. —Your committee thefdfctc
; fubmir the following refoiutioiis.
1. RifolviJ, That this Society will life their
Utjnoil endeavors to aid and ailill the aJTocia
-1:011 of Shoeinikei s in the town of Newark.
2. RiMvcd, That it be recommended to the
said aflociation, not to difpft r e of any men's
(hoes of tl« value of fx Ihillingi and upwards,
nqr of any women"! Ihoes of the value oi five
(hillings and upward :, unless the fame are in.
fpcfied by the committee to be appointed for
3. Rcf.'vtJ, That the e bs annually chosen
>y this Society a committee to infpeft and
tamp the (hoes offered for laic and made in
Newark. And that Stephen Hays and Joleph
Cafe be the committee for the prefcnt enluing
year, who (hall take and lubfcribe an oath for
the faithful performance of their trust, which
lhall be Sled with the secretary of this Society.
4. Iljolvtd, That the laid committee be di
rected to forjn some mode or device for flump
ing or marking the ihoes by them inspected,
so an to prevent impoiition on pu chafers
■broad. And that the said Committee (lamp
no men's Ihoes oi neats leather under tlie va
lue of fix {hillings New-York currency, nor
no women's shoes of said leather under the
value of live (hillings said currency £ nor (lamp
any calf or goat ikinflioes under the value ot
one dollar.
5. R folvcd, That the sum of one farthing
be allowed to the la d committee for each pair
of Ihoes they fliall infpeft.
6. Refohcd, That this Soc ; ety will take
measures to have thel'e resolutions made
known in the diftirent pans of the continent
that trade in our Ihoes.
\Thich report was read and adopted.
* # * The f: vera I Printers throughout the Units
Spates, who are jriend» tu the promotion oj Domejlic
M:rtrnjaftu r es. are raqiejied to injert the Joteg oing
report and refolution> in their rejOtilive papers.
To the Public.
Editor of the Gazette cf the United
States, propofus publishing the Paper,
under that Title, every Evening, Sunday's
excepted.
To render it interesting as a Daily Publi
cation, it ihall contain foreign and domestic,
cofhijiercial and political Intelligence Ef-
fays and.ptTffcrV&tiotoV'toM) "smtf general :—
Maritime j formation .I—prjeev Current of
Merchandise and the Public Funds. Also a
fu.ijmary of tfie proceedings of'Congrefs, and
of ithe Legislature of this Slat* :—with a
of Congreflionai Dehat.es, &c.
Advertizing favors will be gratefully re
ceiveci.
TERMS
To be printed on paper of the demy size ;
but a larger size (hall be fubfttuted in Decem-
ber next.
The price Six Dollars per Annum, to be
paid half Yearly.
"When a fufiicient nurriber of Subscribers is
obtained, the Publication lhaJl commence.
tn the interim, the Gazette will be publilh
ed twice as usual.—Subscriptions are
refpeftfully solicited by the Public's humble
feryant,
JOHN F E N N O.
(£3* are rci erred at the City Tavern,
South Second S/ieet —by Mr. lhbfyn % ai the Stot.c
Houjc—by other ptrjons who are i/» pajjrjjion ofjub-
Jir'ptian paper s, and b\ the Ldittir ut. his Loujt,
No. 34, North Fjth-Strect.
Philadelphia, July, 17^3,
INSURANCE COMPANY
Pll! L AL»i.L I HI A. ]ll!y ill, Xjs%.
VTOTICt is I neby given fo,ti)C trui«L». Ik (K
L \ t)f 1.-fu «on t- Com |/r>'i»y ol .\'<»ijh Arirrt
that «V Dii'£{»*»Jt?vi: '.l-.'c!iuv! a ci'v.dtnd
.Uo mu da> )o! hx per iceni an trie a mourn of iiic
si.d .nllalo-<ui t and of" tine i»cr cent per mooih,
• the furrs paid towards the second and third
instalments, calculating from '.he fiilk day of
the month following* ihat in which the To pay
menu were made. The Dividend will be pa'd
t» the Stockholders or their Reprefcntatives, at
the Company's Office, (No. 119, south Front-
Street) at any time after the 7th ml}.
EBfcNEZER HAZARD, Sec'ry.
As th' THtitbtfi 0/ this (onp.ivx are much
difierfed the United tutu, the Printers
ih the fever at J! ate* dre requeued to give the obwt a
place 1 n then rtewJpapeTs.
RULES
To he observed in tfarifa&jifg Bufni-fs with the
Insurance Company
Of NORTH-AMERII A.
ift. \LL orders for I ifjrar.ee mud be given
jf~\. in Writing, Tigfted bv lite aoylicant ;
and as minute a defo ipi i m of the v< (Tel is ex
pected, d* tiirr ordering the insurance can
Iftve. refne£ting her age, built, how found
fitted, and whether double Or single decked.
2d. All poltcus will be read v tor delivery in
twenry-tour hours aftrr tie order for infiuance
is accepted at the office, end the policy mull be
taken up in ten nays.
3d. Nous, wiih an approved endorfei, for all
premiums, inuft be givisii in ten days, payable
as follows :
For American- and Wtft-India rifques, in
three 11 onths after the date of the policy.
For Euiopcan rifqu>s. in fix months.
For India and China rifques, in 12 months.
For rifqius by the year, in eight months.
For rifques for fix months, in fonr months.
And for lifquti for any teller time, 111 three
months.
4th, Loflts will be paid in tev days after proof
ai d adjustment ; but if the note given for the
premium shall not have become due within that
time, the amount of it (hall, nevertheless, be de
ducted from the loss to be paid.
The Insurance Company of North-America
hereby give notice to all whom u may concern,
that, agreeably to the above rules, they arc ready
to receive all orders for insurance, which may
be addressed to them, accompanied with direc
tions to some refponfir>le house in Philadelphia
for the payment of the premiums within the
time limited.
In cafe the rifques offered faall be approved,
the insurance iliall b_ immediately eftc £ted ;
other wife notice lhall be given, either by aniwer
to the perfoh applying, or to his agent, in Phila
delphia, as may be ordered.
By order of the Dirr&ors,
EBENEZER HAZARD, Sec'ry.
4 w
J u| y a
Albany Glafs-Houfe.
The Proprietors of the Glafs-Mmufaetory, under
the Firm of
M'CLALLEN, MCGREGOR md Co.
BEG leave to inform the public, that they have
now biought their WINDOW-GLASS to
fuchperfe&ion, as will. be (ound, on companfon,
to be equal, in quality, to the bril London
Crown GlafV.
Having fixed their pi ires at a lower rate than
imported Glufs, they are induced to believe, that
importations of this article will be difcontinucd,
in proportion as their works are cxienoed,—
They ptopofe to enlarge the scale of this busi
ness, and as the success of it will depend on the
patriotic support of the public, they beg leave to
solicit thfir friendly pationage in the pursuit of
a branch which will interest every lover of
AMERICAN Manufactures.,
All orders tor W1 ndow-G 1. ass, of any size,
will be received at the Store of Rhodes and
Ma-cGregor, No. 234, Queen-lbtet, New-
York, and at the 'Gfiats Wa r ehoule, No. 48,
Market-dreet, Albany, which will be pun&uatly
attended to.
{pT WANTED, fix smart ast ive LADS, not
exceeding 16 vtarsof age, to be indented as
Apprentices, and regularly inftrtr£ted in the
various branches of Glafs-M^king.
Alfa, three Window-Glass Mdker*, to whom
great encouragement will be given.
Hay t, 1793
GENERAL POST-OFFICE,
Philadelphia, May 27, I 793.
500 Dollars Reward.
WHEREAS a ccrtaiu THOMAS SLO£S
GANTT, has lately made his escape
from Baltimore County Gaol, to which he was
committed under a charge of having lobbed the
E.iftern Miil, on the 28th day of January last J
Notice is hereby given, that a re ward of five
hundred dollars will be paid at this Office, to
any perlon or perlons who (hall apprehend the
said Thonas Sfoji Gantt, and deliver him into the
cuitodyot the keeper of the (aid Gaol, or into
the cuflody of either of the Maifhals within the
United States, so that the said Thomas SJofs Gantt
may be effectually feeured, and forth coming to
anl wer the above mentioned chaige.
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
Pojl-Majler General.
The following is a description oP the above
named 1 homas Sloss Gantt : He is about
fix feet high, strait and well made, has light co
loured hair, tied behind, fair complexion and
has a down look when spoken to.
Madame Doutte, wife of M. Doutte, an
inhabitant du quartier de Vallieres, loft her HuC
band in the diUfters of the Cape on the 20th
June last. She is ignorant of his fate—She re
c]ue(ls that those who may have it in thrir power
to give her any iniur tn<moi» refpc£ling her hul-
would fend w to the house ol Mis. Hud
son, H'gb-ftreei. BiUimorr, where ihe resides,
~r }?} Qu antt., in the fame flrect.——
A rc-pubfication of the vj theJcverai printer*
Vj rcquejled.
492
J
FOR SALE, £Y
M A T H L W C A R K Y,
A: kit Stcn, No. iiH. Maikeuitini,
Phil AD'LvHtA,
r "pHE AMERICAN MUSE I'M, fro in its
X com:mi;remcM 10 January, i 7®7» 10 ,l *
tt» m naiion 111 D r, 1792, in tWr'lvt vo
lume*, price, neatiy b<»«m& and ni fit
ted dollars and one fitih.
The opinion of the Prcfident of the United
Staie*, refpe&ing this work, it> •« lol.ows :
44 I believe che American Museum has met
with exteniive s I may fay, with universal ap
probation fiom competent judges ; for 1 am of
opinion, that the woik is not only en>inenfly
calculated o diflrm'rnate political, agricultural,
philosophical, and tnh r valuable t r foi rranon ;
h> rhai it h.ts hern unjorm/y conduced uith toflty
1 rut ion, and propriety. It to thete important
fbjr&p be fupeittldcd the more immediate de-
of rcSi uing public documents from obli
vion—l will venture to pronounce, as my sen
timent, a more useful literary
PL At.' HAS NEVER BEEN UNDERTAKEN IN
AMERICA, or one MORE, deserving of pub-
LIC ENCOURAGEMENT."
I.rU-5.
By THOMAS JOUNMN, DAVID
STUART,k DANIEL CARROLL,
Efquira,
Com mission e r s appointed by Government to
prepare the Public Buildings, See. within the
City of H'dJhington t tor the reception ot Con
gress, and tor iheir permanent rcfidence after
the year 1800 —
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City.
rO,OOO Tickers at 7 dollars, are 350,000 dollars.
LIST OF PRIZES, viz.
1 Superb Hotel, with baths,? 1
our houles, &c.&c. to coli J
1 Cash Prize 25.000
1 ditto 20,000
1 ditto 15. cOO
1 ditto 10,000
2 ditto 5.000 are
10 ditto 1,000
20 ditto 500
100 ditto 100
2<>o ditto 50
400 ditto 25
i,OOO ditto 20
15,000 ditto 10
i5,'737 P"iW"' '
50,060
By this scheme at.leajl the amount of the tick
ets will reiurti 10 the toriunace adventurers, and
yft the federal City will gain its objett theieby,
ina magnificent building deftgned both tor pub-
Jit and private convenience.
Although Tome ex pence mill necessarily at
teid the conducing of the lottery, (which ex
pencc will be taken from the principal prize) the
CAainitHioners having agreed to prtfent in -re
turn a fufficient quantity of excellent free-done,
together with the best adapted lots for the hotel
and tor the out-houfes, the value of the lottery
entire may be fairly rated at something more than
par: In this important inilance it will be found,
on examination, to exceed all the lotteries that
have ever been offered to the Public in this or
perhaps in any other countiy. The keys 6f the
Hotel, when compleat, will be delivered to the
fortunate pofTrllor of the ticket drawn aagainft
its number.—All the other prizes will be paid,
without deduftien,in one month after the drawing, by
the City at Wafliington, or at such
Banks as may be hereafter announced,
for the conveniency of the fortunate adventurers.
The drawing will commence on Monday the
6th of Septcmbei next, at the City of Walhing
ton.
Tickets may be had of Col. Wm. Dickens, City
Treafurrr ot Washington ; Thayer & Bari<e!> of
Charleston, South-Caiolina ; Gideon Denijon, Sa
vannah ; Me firs. James Weji£3 Co. Baltimore ;
Mr. Peter Gi/man, Bolton; and at such other
places as will be herealter published.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
fce given for the Plan of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and cold
Baths, Stables, and other out houses* if prefente4
on or before the toth oj April next; and a pre
ference will be given to the Artist for a Con
tract, provided he be duly qualified to
com pleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be ereCted, will.
be a corner lot of about 90 by 200 feet, with a
back avenue to the (tables, &c. SeCtions and
cftiinates of the expense will be expelled
with the elevations, See. compleat. ; and 50,000
dollars mutt be regarded by the Architect as the
utmost limit in the expense intended lor this
purpose. S. BLODGET,
Agent for the affairs of the City.
March, 61793.
epi2w
Hercule De Sercey,
/Voi* Leogatu, Ijlavd of St Domhgo, ■
MAKES anil (elisall foils of Mugs, Jacks,
Porringers, Cu>ps< Stew.Pans, Lamps, tc.B.
in Tin, plain or japanned—He also meuds old
lin work. As he work's cheap, he hopes tor the
pubHc rncouragcmeiH,
, ' No. 23, Raocftreet, oew Front-ftreei.
' June 11.
HERCULE DE SERCEY,
DE Lcogane, Isle de St. Doimnque, tiavaille
en ler Blanc, de toute. forte de manieres a
coinmaude et a bon marcht.
A Philadclphle, ce 2 2 J aiit, r 793.
No. 23, Rac«-ltreet,-pres Froni-ftreet.
(CF THE Post-Masters and other persons
who may col!e& Snbfcription* for the Gazelle
oj the United Stoles. on the terms propoied in
the address published in our last, are requeued
to forward their orders for the panels by the
firft nf November next
Philadelphia, Au'vji 3.
TRRiSUJIY Dh?.\ II [MI NT, June a 6. i 79j
\f Ol th« rctvy g»v, ,1, lild! v% it
i_ i»c jvt.l at tjw On'.Ci.- o* the ScCfi ttoiy fcf
cita I <eafuiy, uoiji the lour>c«nih day ol & jj.
it iim>i r iiixi ujeliiii«/r<y, tor the Oippiy ot «.t
KdUi)U» winch may be requited tor the use ot
tuc Uiincd hum the fi:ft day ot Januaty,
lo i ric ih« n v-fii ft day of December 1794. both
days inclusive, at the placrs, and within the
dittntts hereafter mentioned, vtz.
' •<&
1. At any place or places betwixt York-Town
and Carlisle, in. the state of PennlyU«,i»u, amf
Pitifburghj&at Piuft>urgh,Yo» k-town&Carliflej
9 . Ai any place or place* from Pitilburgh to
the rmni!h of Big Beavfrr Creak, and at the mouth
ol li'g Heaver Cre«k.
3. At any place or places from the said mouth
tq 1 lie upper falUofthc laid Big Beaver, and at
the uppei falls.
4/ Ac any place Or places si om i'«,e hid upper
falls to M.inonmg, and at Mahoning.
5. A' any pl-ce or places from the (aid Ma
houtng over 10 the Hcatd Navigation of the river
Cayahoga, and at the said Head Nav gattou,
6. At any place or plans from the said Head
Navigation to the mouth of the said nverC4y*«
hoga, and at the said month.
7. Ai any place or places betwixt the month
of fhr Big Beaver Creek, 10 the mouih of the
riv r aud up the said river to the
Tufcarowas, and at the Tufcarowa*, and thence
over to the Ca> ahoga river, and thence down the
said river to its mouth.
8. At any place or places betwixt the mouth
ol the rivet Mufkingum and the mouth of the
Scioto river, aud at ii»e mouth of the said river
Scioto.
9 At any place or places betwixt the mouth
of Scioto rivei & the mouth of the Grrat Miami,
at the month ot the Great Miami, and from
thence lo the rapids or ihc (alls ot the Ohio,and
at the said rapid*.
10. At any i>lace or placet betwixt the mouth
of ihe Great Miami, up the said Miami to aui
at Pique Town.
11. Ai any place or places from Fort Wald
ington t(vJort-HjmUtQc, and »> Fart Hamilton.
At any place or places from Fort Hamilton to
Fort St. Clair, and at Fort St. Clair.
1 2. At any place or places from Fort St. Clair
to Fort Jcfferfon. and at Fort Jcfferfon.
13. At any place or places from Fort Jcfferfon
to the field of a6l ion of the 4 hot November,
1791, and at the said field oi a&ioo.
10,000
lO,OCO
10,000
10.000
10,000
10, coo
20,020
150,000
14. At any place or places from the said field,
of art ion to the Miami VMiagcs, and at the
Miami Villages. /
15. At any place or places from the said Mf
ami Villages to the falls of the Miami river,
which empties into Lake £rie, and at the said
falls, and from thence to ivs mouth, and at its
mouth.
Dollars 350,000
16. At any place or places from the mouth of
the said Miami river of Lake Lne to Sandufky
Lake, and at Sandufky Lake. '
1 7. At any place or places from the said San
dufkv Lake, to the mouth ot the river Cayahoga.
18. At any or places from the mouth of
the said river jfl c am j aC
Prcfque I fie.
19 At any place or placcs from Prcfque IHc
to the stream running into Lake Erie from to
wards the Jadaghque Lake, and thence over to
and at thelaid JadagTiquc Lake,and thence dew*
the Alleghany river to Fort Franklin.
20. A? any place or places from Prefque Ifl«
to Le Beuf, aud at Le Bcuf,
21. At any place or places from Le Beuf to
Fort Franklin, and at Fort Fianklin, and from
thence to Pittfburgh
-22. At any place or places from the rapids of
the Ohio to the mouth of thr Wabafh river, and
from the mouth of the said Wabafh river to the
mouth of the river Ohio.
23 At any place or places on the East fide of
the river Mifliflippi, from the mouth of the Ohio
river, to the mouth o{ the Illinois river.
24. At any place or plarts from the mouth of
the fa d Wabalh river up to - Fort Knox, and at
Fort Knox.
25. At any place or places from-For tiKnox up
the said Wabalh to Ouittanon, and at Ouittanon.
26. At any place or places from Ouittanon,
up the said Wabafh, to the head navigation, of a
branch thereof called Little River, and at the
said head navigation of Little River.
27. At any pla< e or plac< s from the said head
navigation of Little River over to the Miami Vil
lagc.
28. At any plac€ or p'acfs. from itie ?ryyjth sjj
the river Teiuffeeto Occochappo 01 Bear Creek,
on the said river, inclusively
29. At any place or places from the mouth of
the river Cumberland to Naihville, on the said
river, and at Nashville..
30. And at any place or places within thirty
miles of said Nashville to the Southward, West
ward or Northward thereof.
Should any rations be required at any places,
or within other diftn&s, not fpecified in thrfe
proposals, the price of the fame to be hereafter
agreed pn betwixt the public and the contractor.
The mtions to be supplied are to consist of the
following articles, viz.
One pound of bread ot flour,
One pound Of beef, or £of a pound of pork,
One quart of fait, )
Mwo quarts of vinegar, f
n > , r > per 100 rations.
Two pounds ot loap, f r
One pound of candles, j
The rations are to be furniftied in such quanti
ties as that there (hail at all limes, during the said
terra, be fufficient tor the confuOipiion of the
troops at each of ti»e said poAs, for the fpaC'e of at
least g» months in advaqce, in good and whole
some provisions, if the fame shall be jequiied.
ft is to beundeiftfcod in each cafe,that all lolfes
fuflatnecVby the depredations of the enemy*, or by
means of the troOpsof the United State s, shall be
paid for at the pi ices of the articles captured or
destroyed, on the depositions of two or more
creditable ctiara&ers, and the certificate of a
com mi fifioried nfcertaining the circum
flariceSof the lol's, i®hd the amount o! the articles
lor which cornpeufation is claimed.
The contrail for the above supplies will be
made either for one year, or lor two > <-*rs, as may
appear eligible, heifo'ns disposed to contract
will ihereiore • onfme the.- oilers to one year, or
they may make their propnfitions foas to admit
an election ot the term of two •• :ars.
The offers may cornprile d!) ne places whicfc
have feecn fpecified, or a j.>ait c. i ouk.