mir-n ii ■iiiiib' . .... . - _ ..1. .
A NATIONAL PAPER, PUBLISHED WEDNESDAYS AND SATURDAYS BY JOHN FENNQ, No. 34, NORTH FIFTH S / KF.F. i, PHILADELPHIA.
[No. 94 of Vol. IV.]
LAW OF THE UNION.
SECOND
CONGRESS OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT THE SECOND SESSION,
Begun and held at the of Philadelphia,
in the State of Pennsylvania, on Monday
the fift;h of November, onethoufond
seven hundred and ninety*two.
AN ACT making Appropriations for
the Support of Government for
the Year one thousand (even hun
dred and ninety-three.
by the Serrate owi
Representatives of the United States of
America, in Congress Alfembled, That for
the fervicc of the year one thousand seven
hundred and ninety-three, the e be appropri
ated a sum of money, not exceeding one mil
lion five hundred and eighty-nine thoofatidj
and forty-four dollars, and ieventy-two cents;
that is to fay :
For the compensations granted by law to
the President and Vice-Prelident of the Uni
ted States, thirty thousand dollars : For the
like com pen fatfons to the members of the Se
nate and Houie of Representatives, the r offi
cers and attendants, estimated for a felfion of
fix months continuance, one hundred and for
ty-three thousand, five hundred and ninety-one
dollars : For the salaries of the door-keepers
and afllftant door keepers, of the Senate and
Iloufe of Representatives under the ast fbr
their compenfation,*pafled the 12th of April,
one thousand seven hundred and ninety-two,
one thousand two hundred and thirty-three
dollars, and lixry,eight cents: For the expen
ses of firewood, Stationary, printing work,
and all other contingent expences of the two
Houses of Congress, nine thousand five hun
dred and fifty-two dollars : For making good
a deficiency in the appropriation, in the year
one thousand seven hundred and ninety-two,
for contingent expenses in the office of the
Clerk of the House of ?».eprefentatives, five
hundred and seventy-eight dollars t For the
Compensations granted by law, to the chief
justice, associate judges, diftrift judges, and
the attorney-general, forty three thousand
two hundred dollars : For the additional sa
lary of the attorney-general, by the ast of the
eighth of May, one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-two,two hundred and sixty dollars,
and eighty-two cenfs : For defraying the ex
pense of clerks of courts, jurors and witnefles,
in aid of the fund arising from fines, forfei
tures and penalties, twelve thousand dollars :
For defraying the expences of profecufcions
for oJ nccs against the United States, and for
the fate keeping of prisoners, four thousand
dollars : For compensation to the Secretary
<>f the Treafory, clerks and persons employed
ip his office, eight thousand three hundred
and fifty dollars : For salary of the two prin
cipal clerks to the Secretary of the Treasury,
from the eighth of May to the thirty-firfl of
December, one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-two, one thousand and forty three
dollars and twenty-eight cents : For expenle
of ftationarv, printing, and all other contin
gent experces in the office of the Secretary of
the Treasury, five hund:ed dollars : For com
pensation to the comptroller of the Treasury,
clerks and persons employed in his office, nine
thousand four hundred &nd fifty dollars : For
the encreafed salary of the Comptroller from
the eighth of May to the thirty-fiift of De
cember, one thousand seven hundred and
ninety-two, two hundred and sixty dollars
and eighty-two cents : For expense of fta
tionarv, printing, and all other contingent ex
penses in the comptroller's office, fix hundred
dollars: For compensation to the auditor of
the Treasury, clerks and persons empioyed in
his officc, ten thou fat d four hundred and fif
ty dollars: For the encreafed salary of the
auditor,from the eighth of May to the thirty
firft of December, one thoufond seven hun
dred and ninety-two, two hundred and sixty
dollars, and eighty-two cent*: For expenle
of ftatittaa; y, printing, and other contingent
expenses, in the auditor's office, fix hundred
dollars : For compensation to the register of
the Treafuvy, clerks and persons employed in
his office, eightern thousand fix hundred dol
lars : For the encreafed salary of the register
of the Treasury, from the eighth of May, to
the thirty firfl of December, one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-two, three hundred
and tweuty-tix dollars and three cents, and
for miikiug good the deficiency in the appro
priation of one thousand (even hundred and
ninety-two, one hundred dollars j making, in
the whole, four hundred and twenty-fix do!-
Wednesday* April 24, 1755.
lars aacl three cents : For expenses of ila*
tionary, printing, and other contingent ex
pen in the remitter's office, two thousand
dollars : For compensation to the Tre a fur er,
clerks and perfdns employed in his office,, four
thpufand one hundred dollars : For the en
creafed salary of the Treasurer, from the
eighth of May, to the thirty-nrft of December,
one thousand fe veil hundred and ninety-two,
and for maki6g good a deficieiicy in the ap
propriation of the year one tnoufand seven
hundred and ninety-two, for clerks in that
office, five hundred and thirty dollars and six
ty-eight cents : For expense of firewood, sta
tionary, printing ahd other contingencies in
the trea urer's office, four hundred and fifty
dollars : For compensation to the commiiiion
er of the revenue, clerks and persons employ
ed in his office, four thousand. ope hundred
dollars : For the salary of the commissioner
of the revenue, cleiks and perftuis employed
in that office, from the eftabJifhment thereof,
to the of December, one thousand
seven hundred and ninety two, including al
so contingent expenses to the fame time, tvto
thonfand eigne liuudred and fevemy-three
dollars and forty-fix cents : fj»r the exppnfe
of llationnryV printing and other ronv.ng« nt
experices in the office of the commilfioner,
three hundred dollars : To make good the
deficiency in the appropriation of t!>e year
one thonfand seven hundred and ninety-two
for the contingent expenses of the treafury
departinent, two thousand four hundred dol
lars : For the payment of rent for the several
houses employed in the treasury department,
one thousand four hundred and eighty-nine
dollars and ninety-nine cents : For wood and
candles in the several offices in the treasury
department (except the treasurer's office) one
thousand two hundred dollars : For compen
fatiors to the several loan officers, thirteen
thousand, two hundred and fifty dollai s : For
defraying the expences of flatioiiary, and for
hire of decks in the offices of the several com
missioners of loans, to the firll of March, one
th< ufand seven hundred and ninety-three, au
thorized by the ast of the eighth of May, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-two, thir
ty-two thousand seven hundied, and twenty
nine dollars. *nd uimjty-five * t"o make
good deficiencies in former appropriations, for
similar cxpenfes-, one thousand fix hundred
and fifty dollars : For compensation to the
Secretary of State, clerks and other persons
employed in his office, fix thousand three hun
dred dollars : For defraying the expense of
the laws of the several States, pub
lishing and distributing the laws of Congress,
and all other expenses in the office of the fe
' cretary of State, one thousand eight hundred
and fifty-one dollars and sixty-seven cents :
To make good a deficiency in the appropria
tion of the year one thousand seven hundred
and ninety-two, for the contingent expenses
in this office, ninety-three dollars and thirty
four cents : For compensation to the com
missioners for settlement of the accounts be
tween the United States and the individual
States, clerks and persons employed in their
office, fix thousand fix hundred and fifty dol
lars : For defraying the contingent expenses
of the board of commiflioners, four hundred
and seven dollars : For compenfntions to the
Governors, Secretaries and Judges of the ter
ritory north-weft, and the territory south of
the river Ohio, ten thousand three hundred
dollars : For expenses of flationary, office -
rent, printing patents for lands, and other
contingent expenses in both the said territo
ries, seven hundred dollars : For the payment
of thepenfions granted to invalids,eighty-two
thousand, two hundred and forty-five dollars,
and thirty-two cents : For payment of the
annual allowance granted by (->ngrefs to Ba
ron Steuben, two thousand five hundred dol
lars : For payment of sundry penfiotis grant
ed by the late government, two thousand se
ven hundred and fixty-leven dollars, and fc
veuty-three cents : For the maintenance and
repair of light-honfes, beacons, piers, flakes
and buoys, twenty thonfand dollars : For the
farther expenJe of building and equipping ten
cutters, three thousand dollars : For the pur
chase oi hydrometers, for the ule of the offi
cers of the cufloms and infpettors of the re
venue, one thousand five hundred dollars : To
make good the deficiency in the appropriation
of the year one thoufaud seven hundred and
ninety-two, for the purchaie of hydrometers
fix hundred aud ten doliars, and ten cents:
For the payment of such demands, not other
wise provided for, as shall have been duly
allowed by the officers of the treasury, five
thousand one hundred and sixty-nine dollars :
For compensation to the Secretary of War,
clerks and perfonsempioyed in his office, seven
thousand an<f fifty tloiiars : For the cncreaied
salary of the chief clerk in the war depart
ment, from the eighth of May, to the thirty
firlt of December, one thousand seven hun
ered aud ninety-two, one hundred and thirty
dollars and forty-one cents : For expenses of
firewood, ftationarv, printing and other con
tingent expense* in the office oi'the Secretary
of War, fix hundred dollars : For compensa
tion to the accountant to the war-department
and clerks in his office, four thousand two
Y C/t»'4
373
j s "
'hundred dollars : For salary to the account
ant,' clerks and for contingent expenses in that
office, fom the establishment thereof, to the
thirty-firft of December, one thousand (seven
hundred and ninety-two, one thousand one
hundred and fixty-five dollars and eighty-nine
cents : For contingent expenses in the office
of the accountant to the war department,
three hundred dollars f For payment of four
years rent for the building occupied for offi
ces of the Secretary of War and accountant,
one thoufmd lix hundred and sixty-six dollars,
and sixty-six cents : F° r salaries of the store
keepers at the several arsenals, rent for the
buildings occupied as magazines, for payment
of the laborers, coopers, armorers and other
persons employed in taking care of the ord
nance, arms and military stores, seven thou
sand eight hundred and thirty-five dollars and
thirty-two cents : For. five hundred rifles,
purchased in the year one thoufapd seven hun
dred and ninety-two, fix thousand dollars s
For expense of repairing arms, equipments
of cannon cartridge-boxes, swords and eyery
other article iu the ordnance department, ten
thoufanxl dollars : For defraying the expenses
of the Indian department, fifty thoufmid dol
s i For tbefiay of ttft troops authorized by
law, three hundred ami four thousand, t'hree
hundred and eight dollars : For subsistence,
three hundred and twelve thousand, fiveluin
died and sixty-seven dollars, and seventy five
cents : For forage, tilirty-fonr thousand eight
hundred and fifty-fix dollars : For clothing,
one hundred and twelve thousand dollars :
For equipments for cavalry, five thousand
dollars : For hor/es for cavalry, five thousand
dollars : For hospital department, twenty
mo thousand dollars : For qtiaiter-mafter's
department one hundred thousand dollars :
For maps, hiring exprelfes, allowance to of
ficers for extra expenses, printing, lo'fs of
ttores, advertising, apprehending deserters,
and every other contingent expense in the
war-department, thirty thousand dollars :
for the defenfive protection of the frontiers,
Sfty thousand. dollars : For the payment of
bounties, fifteen thousand two hundred and
forty dollars.
And be it further enacted, That the feve
appropriations herein before made /liill
be paid and discharged out of the funds fol
lowing, to wit :
First—The sura of fix hundred thousand
dollars reserved by the ast making provision
for the debt of the United States.—Secondly.
—The fur-plus which, may remain unexpend
ed, of the monies appropriated for the use of
the war department, in the year one thousand
seven hundred and ninety-two—And, thirdly
—The surplus of the existing revenues of the
United States, to the end of the year, one
thousand seven hundred and ninety-three, ex
cept what may. be othevwife appropriated,
ijuring the present feflion of Congress.
And bp it further enacted, That the Presi
dent of the United States be authorized to
borrow, on account of the said States, any
lum or sums, not exceeding, In the whole
eight hundred thousand dollars, at a rate of
interest not exceeding five per centum, per
annum, and reimbursable at the pleasure of
the United Slates, to lie applied for the pur
poles aforefaid, and to be repaid out of the
said l'urplus of theduries on imports and ton
nage, to the end of the present year, one thou
sand (even hundred and ninety-three : And
that it lhall.be lawful for the bank of the Uni
ted States, to lend the said sum. And the
Prelident of the United States lhall cause so
much of tjie loan, made of the bank of the
United States, pursuant to the eleventh fec
tiou of the act, by which it is incorporated,
to be paid off, in funis not less than fifty
thousand dollars, as, in hit opinion, the state
of the treufury may, from time to time, ad
mit, out of any monies, which may be in the
treasury, having due regard to the exigen
cies of government, and the appropriations
made and to be inade by law.
JONATHAN TRUMBUU., Speaker
oj the Houje si/
JOHN yke-Prefidcnt oj the
United Siatei, and Prcfident of the Senate.
APPROVED FEBRUARY 28, 1793.
ChO. WASHINGTON,
l'refidenl aj the United States.
Fm the GAZETTE oj the UNITKD STATES.
[CONCLUDSD FROM OUR LAST.J
WHILE we exult in the success of reason
and juilice—wh'le we rejoice in the re
cent vi&ory ol energetic principles ovej chime
rical and republican fjmpiicity, it
ii duty so to conlider the past, aa lo pioiit 111
what is 10 come. In this view, I lhal) make
foine obfc» vauons, as what dirtttly flow irom
idte CongrefTiouai occurrences.
1 hope the members ot Cougrefs will now he
taught to be moie cauunus how they alarm their
country, and blame the faith! ul and molt ufetul
fi'ivantt ol the public. We thould all have an
eye on the conduct of pubi c men; and mem
bcis of more than any others, aire
called to this duty : they are ccmintls on she
walls ot the republic, and should immediauly
give notice of approaching danger. But let it
be rcmcmUcicd, thai if (ihu' ik«' mere roiftake).
<2
[Whole No. 416.]
w-li ?irr *. . -P 7 •> '
> i
they call fri< nns fOcs, arra muk the very
pillais of she tj-»tc as lecirr cori'pi' >rs agamll
it, they may »oon iuvolvc us in anarchy and
ruin.
Again, the pro pie ought ro I alee up no rcpoit*
or iccufanohs as eilablifhed truths. They ought
to immediately examine every iuggeftion «ul de
linquency in iheir fcrvants ; hut till (key airive
at the issue of iliat exaininai ion, they ought rjot
to condemn—not even to fufpeift. One
suppose ihc flaming patriots of Congress knew
from whence have drawn their knowledge
of governmental corruptions —one would sup
pose that before they mfe to atcufe public func
tionaries, they knew of a certainty that their ac
cusations were true. Yet we have icen the con
trary. While therefore we arc carcful to give
full credit and applavife to thofc who, through
youthful ardor, are bold in attacking every ap
pearance of a plot against our liberties —let us
not pi ecipitately join in every hue and ci y against
government, its measures and iis officers ; but
let us examine for ourselves, and when we arc
convinced, then lei us condcmn. Too many
think there is no need of cauuon here; »hcy
think the only danger is, that the people will be
too lupine, will be too indiffeicm to .the dan
gerous rticafuies of their ft rvants. Honce
talk of jealouly, as a tnoft efTencial republican
virtue—Hence loiflc tell me, ihev take a certain
Ga?.ette ; not because they reiifh the abuf" it
teems with, but because it serves as a good pur
gative to the coirupt humours necejjarily giiihr/-
ing, from time to time, in the oody politic.
For my part, I explode tljrfe notions, not only
as infamoufly (illy, but as aflually pernicious to
the public good. Why flbould we make it a
virtue to do that to a public ch.ira&er, y/hich if
done to a private, would make us worthy to be
cropped ? This jealousy, with too many, is but
another name for inj*iflice and abufc. I think
I would help to hunt our of the land every aris
tocrat, every convi&cd enemv to the l>appinrfs
of others. But, for all this, I would not call 4
man one, and pei fecute him as such, be cause he
is in office apd I am out, because he is tich and
J am poor, because his political principles and
mode of promoting the general welfare arc dif
ferent from mine—because I am nobody*) and
he is Secretary of the Treasury.
This conduct, this extravagant jealousy, I pro
nounce pernicious; and, nfmga lalhionable de
mocratic phrase, I denounce it to a difccin iitf
piioltc. Men of grmus. cultivated tatents and
integrity* are men of generous and exquifi'e feel
ings. By that abuse, which too many deem a
virtuous republican jealousy, these chara&ers will
be thrust out ol office, that men may take ih. ir
places, who at gaming tables and brothels have
loft the fear of their Cieator, the Jove of o;hcrs,
and that delicious fenfibilitv yhjch ever arcont
pamcs an upright and a poliflied mind. Hard
ened bv vice, the laiter can bear without emo
tion, that abuse they once so ficcly bellowed on
better men.
Who can eflimate the loss of men, such as
Mr. Hamilton appeaisto be? It is immonfe.
Great capacity, much cultivation, not a mere
Chaotic map of ciimbeffome erudition, but
wholesome fyttrmatic knowledge, almost un
equalled diligence and labour, iound integrity
and diftingnifhed patriotism, are united in him.
Drive, by rash accusations and abuse,
such as he is, Irom the helm, and we fh.ill soon
founacr or be wrecked, amidst those storms, to
which every government is more or less cx«
posed.
The lots of nvn uncommonly qualified in
head and heart, 10 promote the public wcaj, is
not the only ill effect of an uncorretted jealousy
in the pcoplr. It will difpoCe them e er to give
their con6dencc to those that oppose govern
ment, whatever be their principles or their mo
rals. 1 hus the vi 1 ell men will at times be exalt
ed. The people will fofter vipers in their bo
som, who, in return, will fling them to death.
A -variety of contradi&ory measures will be pur
(tied. The government will wan? fyft. m and
liability—it will lose the public confidence, it
will timet*—it may fall. Nay more, such ex.
treme jealousy, pulfiing us, on the one haiui*
to unjutt treatment of men in office—and on the
other, lo the heaping ol applause upon men out
of office, is the frequent forerunner, and with
ourftlves may one day oe the caufc of thi,t mo
narchic or auftocratic tyranny we now so hear
tily execrate. Tho' 1 accustom rayfHf to hope
for the best, tho* I admire Dr. Fia ixim,
and daijy find lite fwecter by looking at the
liandtome leg, yet reason and compel me
to dread, left treacherous and tyrannic Croni-v
wells be fecretiy hidden under our and
Not that 1 there is any
l ...... —:rt.
profpeft of thcii having then heart's wish, u
ail nj> e*tcnf. 1 fear not, that we (hall fee them
or atjciUriy pV nobles; but I fear, I I
their principles <ind mcafurts wili one day iiri
pair that harmony which now pervades the
Union, and that energy in the united govern?
nrtnt, v\hicr>, under a gracious providence, ha*
rescued us fiom ruin, fills us wuh felicity, and
coveis us with honou r .
My pall obfeivauons arc general. I now
close with one more particular. It is, that the
late proceedings m Congress Jhould endear the
Secrciaty ol tlie Treafuiy to every virtuous Ame
rican. He t» one of the brightest j ; weli In Co
lumbia's crown. As a pilla, in the federal
building, he ieems to unite the lolidity ot th;
Done order, ilje delicacy and of ;ti=
lon'c, aud the touching beauty oJ.tr,i? Corin hian.
Here yon fee I inoulgrjnylelf. Not t h,i we are
known to each other—l never was of his ac.
and uever expertt®. be— nor de Iknow any thing more of Hi* private character,
than that hit morals are good, and his foul truly
honorable and honed. I view him only as a
public man. Remote fiom public (cenef, devoid
of ambition, with but little, yet witnout a want,
my life passes fwpetly, sometimes rru>ft delici
01.fly in the alienate exercifes'of Audy, recrea
ton and domestic endearments. This declara
tion is due to thole who fee how high the Secre
tary t» in mv esteem. So miich ot me, it may
be well to know, that if may be seen, that not
only thofc under the influence of government,
but many who derive nodircft emolument from
it—not only the satellites around the throne, our
visionaries have themselves created, and now
•with noble patrioiiftn attack —but multitudes
in every pars of the Union do greatly admire
and will Arenuoufly support Our unparalleled
constitution' and Our virtuous administration.—
No, Mr. Fenno, it is not by the minions of power
•nly, as they have been maliciously ftiled, that
administration is approved. Such an inlidious
and unjust refle&ion has at length overcome my
pait relu&ance, and has induced one to publish
his fentimenis, whose situation in life would, if
known, be a faiire upon the suggestion of his
being dircflly benefited by, or conne&ed wiih
government. Bent filed by it we all are—sos it
is the fountain of our political comfort: con
t.cfled we all are, with it, as the body and limbs
are conneffed with the head.
Chiefly a love to others, a defuc to make fomc
return amidst too much popular ingratitude to
those who are waiting their strength for me and
my children, together with at
the imprudence, if nothing worse, in some pub
lic characters, have excited me to transmit my
thoughts to you for publication; and I verily
believe, tho' I sometimes meet with the jealous
and wilh fomr who call your's a ministerial
paper, the great majority of the people will join
me in what I am now uttering, and do coincide
with the current sentiments of your Gazette.—
The enemies of our peace would have their af
feitions disproved, would be overwhelmed with
a jtjft indignation, if the thinking and upright
part of th« community, at a diflance from, as
well a« at the featof goveriimont, w«re to publish,
as I now do, their sentiments and their feelings
refpeCling our public men and their measures.
I judge of the Secretary from a careful perusal
of his official productions, and a careful attention
to his official condutt. The prefent,l deem an
important asra ; and while I leave a G—s to that
praise and gratitude which some may halten to
give him, I would strive to bripg my fellow,
citizens to a just appreciation of the merit of
Mr. Hamilton —of that merit which the late
accusations have made not merely conspicuous,
but truly resplendent Let then confidence in
him be henceforth unshaken ; and let the federal
measures, of which he is the reputed auihor, be
hencefoith considered as largely partaking of his
■wildom, energy, order and ufefulncfs.
A CITIZEN.
Foreign Intelligence.
FRANCE.
NATIONAL CONVENTION
Monday, February 4.
A DEPUTATION from the fac
tion des Lombardes prerentcd
an address, thanking the Convention
for having struck off .the head of
the tyrant, r >d for having declared
war againlt Great- Britain and Hol
land. They proposed that ' each
municipality should be obliged to
furniih a horseman mounted and
equipped. This address was order
ed to be printed, and referred to
the committee of general defence.
Tuesday, February 5
A petition was received from the
people of Ghent, requesting that
they might be united to France.
A petition wasalfo received from
the friends of Liberty at Bruff'els,
requelting that Bruflels might be u
jiited 10 the French Republic.
Both these petitions were referred
to the Diplomatic Committee.
General Bournonville appeared
at the bar, and delivered a speech
on bis being appointed Minister at
War. " There exist great evils,"
said he, " which are the result of
past infidelity. Great remediesare
necessary, and the time is fliort. It
is only by multiplying our means
and efforts that we can triumph over
those obflacles which oppose our
success. The armies wilh only to
conquer. Give them proper sup
port, and we (hall 'soon reach that
equality, liberty, and happiness,
which oughr to be the obje<ft of our
Minister m War. I accept this im
portant office with a resolution
of returning to fight against the
enemies of my country, with
the brave soldiers I have quitted, if
after all my efforts I cannot accom
pliih that end which you propose."
PARIS, February n
" To the Editors ofal) thejournals
STRUCK with horror, I de
clare as a plain French Citizen,that
in my opinion, the sentence of the
National Convention which con.
demns to death the ci-devant Louis
XVI. is an infamors iniquity. I
think that the public will might
free me si ora the obligation of that
oath which attaches me t6 the Con
stitution, but to aJt contrary to my
oath, would only be perjury. I re
monstrate against the impunity of
the niaff'acrea of the month of Sep
tember.
<« What I have here faid,my con
science tells nie, is a duty that I owe
the public. I vvilh to transmit it
to all my cotemporaries, and from
generation to generation to the lat
est posterity.
" Done at Paris this Thursday
" Evening, Jan. 17, 1793-
(Signed) "Francis Odrsdi'.hhsle,'
" of the Ifleof Rhe."
BRUSSELS, Jan. 5
The intelligence of the execution
of Louis XVI. has been received
here wiih aftoniflinient and horror.
It has occaiioued a violent fermen
tation in the army ; and desertions
begin to be very considerable in
consequence of the King's death.
This unfortunate event is likewise
the fubjedl of animosity and quar
rel throughout the army—several
affrays have taken place ainongfl:
the military, in which some have
been killed and wounded.
LONDON, Feb. 18.
The elctSors of Liege,to the num
ber 9,700, were aflembled on the
28th of January, to determine upon
their union with the French repub
lic, when their new attachment
proclaimed throughout the city by
the found of a trumpet.
The Duke of Brunfwick is resolv
ed to make every attempt to efface
the stain cafl upon his character as
a General. The King of Pruflia has
the fame intention. He goes along
the ranks of his soldiers, addrefles
all the companies, and endeavors
to encourage them whom he calls
the companions of the Great Frede
ric. " Shall these men (fays he)
who were accuft'omed to conquer,
return with ignominy. Shall the
succeeding year pass over without
gaining any advantage to honor
your bravery ; and fhalj ye. again
retire without collecting one sprig,
of laurel ? Soldiers ! fuffer not Eu
rope to forget that you are Pruffi»
ans."
The spirit of loyalty has been so
much kept up in Wilt/hire, that ire
a little village not five miles from
Devizes, the Fidler was burnt in
effigy becaofc he would not play
" God save the King," at the burn
ing of Tom Paine,
The language of the King of Pruf
lia is insulting in the extreme, as he
informs the Poles, " That he ch'e
rilhes a hope from his pacific mea
sures, that his troops will meet with
a favorable reception."—How ami
ably pacific, when he means to in
vade and enslave the country ! if
England goes to war for the Bog,
to preserve the balance of power,
what will Die not do, when a whole
country is seized by two despots ?
Petitions from every borough in
Irelan.d are received by the Irilh
parliament, praying for a more e
qual representation in parliament.
These are received with a degree
of attention suitable to their im
portance ; and instead of being
thrown under the table, as was the
cafe in former sessions, they are now
referred to a committee, and the
consequences will be such as, we
trull, this country will not be avei fe
to emulate.
The portrait of Egalite, in the
cblle<slion of the Prince of Wales,
is to be removed from the Lumber
room at Carleton house, ro any auc
tioneer who will knock it down.
As a proof of the flourifhing state
of the Botany-Bay colony, a letter
has been publiftied in several pa
pers, flaring that they hare titt itfi
inenfe extent of excellent land, but
no corn ; palturage in abundance,
but no cattle ; and that the climate
is wholefume, but the people jickly.
A gentleman in office, beingi ask
ed why ministers were laviftiing so
much upon this settlement, said, it
was vety natural for men in perilous
fituarions to be providing for a fnvg
retreat.
The late alarm at Paris, cf an at
tempt to renew the horrors of the
second oi September, was occasioned
by a crowd of idle people, in the
court of the Conciergerie, afleinbled
374
to fee the execution of a man con
demned for forging aflignats.
A woman,callingherfelf the nurse
of the late king's daghter, lent a let
ter to the commons, praying admis
sion to fee her fofter child, and of
fering to remain confined in the
temple with her as long as tbey
fliould think fit. The commons
palled to the order of the day, on
the ground that the person in whose
name the letter was written was
not known to them.
Ic is somewhat Angular, that one
of the most strenuous oppofeis of a
general repeal of the laws against
the Roman Catholics of Ireland,
ihould be the lord chancellor (bitz
gibbon) who is the firft of his fami
ly that was educated a Proieltant.
His father was a Roman Catholic,
but conformed, that he might be
qualified to pratfi'ce the profefiion
of the law.
Many, indeed moftof our modern
writers on political fubjedis, might
with great propriety adopt the lol
lowing motto from Smithfon's ami
ablenefs of candor and diffidence :
" Though I have examined what
all other authors have written on
this affair with great impartiality,
yet I cannot eonceive that any of
them have the lead merit ; nor do
I find one man that has treated the
fubjeift sensibly, except jnyfelf."
1 hat deservedly popular air,' God
save the King,' was composed in the
reign of George I. by Mr. Carey :
and it obviously applies to a warri
or and a patriot Sovereign. When
firft sung, some parts of it were not
understood exactly in the fenfethat
they are at present. Thus, ' con
found their politics,' alluded to the
politics of the pretender and the
adherents of the Stuarts, as support
ed by the despots of France.—We
need (carcely mention, that these
were divine, indefeafible rights of
Kings, the sacred inviolability of
their persons, paflive obedience,
non-resistance, &c. with other ex
ploded dotSrines, which would hard
ly be admitted even at the Crown
and Anchor.
Portrait of PHILIP EGALITE,
Ci-devajit Dukt of Orleans.
His whole life has been the scan
dal of his age, a swindler and de
bauchee in his youth, he eorrupted
and destroyed the Prince de Lani
balle, hisbrother-in-law,with a view
afterwards to accuse, allaflinate, and
plunder the Princefs,his wife,whom
he stripped of an iminenfe fortune,
and reduced to poverty.
He carries in his bosom the pesti
lential germe of corruption ; and
after dishonoring his own bed, he
dishonors that of another, and blasts
what little remained of the family
of the celebrated BufFon, whose
daughter he made the instrument
of his debauchery.
Proprietor of that celebrated gal
lery of pictures, collected at a vast
expence by his anceltors, who were
an honor to France,he has mutilated
and dispersed those chef d'oeuvres
of art, whose value he had not the
talents to appieciate.
If he was ever in battle, it was
when he hid himfelf upon the ap
pearance of the enemy's colours,
and acquired the ironical surname
of l'Heros d'Ouellant. If he parti
cipated in the crimes of the Revo
lution it was to fly before la Fay
ette, and demonstrate that he was
equally the scoundrel and the vil
lain. If he made an effort to build
the Palace Royale, it was to plunge
thousands of families in despair,
who had the credulity to entrust
him with their property, which was
swallowed up in that fraudulent
bankruptcy, which he committed
with the mod cynical impudence.
f hefc ueafures and his fortune
have been employed to pay the
crimes of the sth of October, the
ioih of August, the 2d of Septem
ber, and the 21 It of January. Thus
has Heaven been lavjfli of its favors,
only to lender vice more conspicu
ous. He was educated in dignity,
that his villainy nnght be more pro'
minent ; he was 1 irh and powerful,
o«ly that his vires might be more
numerous and d-fpifed ; he was fla
tioned lu-ar the ! hrone, onl\ to
overturn ii ni n,o.e public dis
grace, and ,ff er a ten ible lef
-1011 to natic « :jd to kings.
His friends and hi<t agents were
homogenial with himfelf, La Cl 0«
the author of the immoral romance'
called Les Saifons Dangereufes ■
—Genlis Sillery, a man the mo st
deeply perverted in iniquity of any
other of the present age, and the
hero of the annals of debauchery
figured away in his councils, iucoiw
junction with that execrable mou
(ter and atl.eiftical priest, who at
the end of the 18th century jjf.
graces the name of Perigord. Adj
to these, we may reckon thatgrace
lef's wretch La Toitche, and Biron
enlarged from an E»gli(h prison.to
appear at the head of the armies of
the Revolution.
Such were the worthy colleague*
of Philip Egaliie ; I'uch were his
coadjutors in that series of guilt,
which wanted only to be completed'
by calling to his ailiftance Le Gen
dre, the butcher, and the nephew
of Damien, Roberfpieri e, and the
nialefadiors of every country. Such
were his secretaries, his dire&ors,
his Chancellors, his familiars, and
his bofoni friends ! ! !
Miracles of General Dumourter.
The seven Champions of Chris
tendom—Guy, Earl of Warwick—
St. George and the Dragon—Joan
of Arc—Jack the Giant killer, and
the Mailer Cat or Puss in Boots, ne
ver performed fucli wonders as the
mighty Dumourier means to accorn
plifh in the eitfuing campaign.
He is to make all Belgia tree a
gainst the consent ofthe people,and
with the discordant voice of unani.
mity, force them to confels them
selves happy in the midst ofraifery.
He is to have a triumphal entry
into Amsterdam, make all Dutch
men throw off their largt galligas
kins, become Sans Culottes, and in
dead of fmoaking Canaster, ling cs
ira and jig the Marfeillois dance.
After disuniting the United States
of Holland, emptying the bank,
plundering the inhabitants, lending
the Dutch fleet to Brest, and laying
the Provinces fir ft under contribu
tion, and afterwards under water,
he is, with the Prince and Princel's
of Orange as part of his suite, to
throw a bridge offlat-boitomed boats
from the Texel to Dover, and march
his troops into Great-Britain.
During this expedition, the Na
tional Convention are to pass a De
cree, commanding the winds to
cease so that there (hall not be one
breath of air to fill the fails of an
Engliih ship of war.
He is by a new preparation of
Philosophical Chemiitry, to petrify
the whole Militia of England, stag
nate the Patriotic fluid in which the
hearts of the people so long ha»«
fwam,and transmute the mind of a
Briton into that of a Frenchman.
He is to plant the tree of Liberty
in St. James's Park, (this he averred
to Lord Lauderdale when they last
dined together) to fend the Royal
Family into exile, to wash away all
the Coronets in the kingdom, be
head all the Bilhops, hang all the
other Clergy, make {tables of the
Churches and Chapels, dismiss both
Hollies of Parliament, elcCt the Con
stitutional Societies into a National
Convention, make Home Tooke,
Prefidem, Mr. Rous, Mayor of Lon
don and Westminster, and give the
command of the army to Citizen
Sen) pie.
Having conquered Great-Britain
and got polleflion of her ininienfe
fleet, he is immediately to f a >'
for China, and plant the Tree ot
Liberty at Pekin ; tender the Civic
Oath to the Mandarins, and make
that great Empire an eighty -sixth
Departuient to France.
In confequeiice of these atcl)ie ve "
ments the reft of the world miift im
mediately fuhmit ; and this great
General having difpoffd of the
Empress of Russia's grey hairs, the
House of Prussia and Austria, the
Kings of Spain, Portugal, &c. & c '
he will return to Paris as Csefar did
to Rome, and obtaining a triumph,
he will receive a dagger.
Such are the suggestions of h' s
wild imagination, nncnritrouled by
reason, unchecked by probability,
and rioting in the idea that ms«
111onld acknowledge no God but lu s
own Will.DUBLIN, Jan. 29.
Never did the recruiting service
proceed with so much fuccefsin this
kingdom as at this moment : With
in the last week, a ferjeant Upon
this duty, raised 150 men in the
coorfe of one day—and so much
did the ardor of the multitude le
cond his zeal, that he was borne
round the city on the shoulders of
the admiring croud, while he ex
horted and invited Irilhmcn to en
list in defence of their king and
country ?
Domestic Articles.
SAVANNAH, April 4.
On Thursday morning last, Mr.
George Waftiington Greene, son of
the lace Gen. Greene, was unfortu
nately drowned in this river, near
Mulberry Grove, by the oversetting
of a canoe. Mr. Stites, a young
gentleman who was with him, with
much difficulty got to the fliore.
Mr. Greene's Corpse was found next
day, and on Saturday was interred
here. The Cincinnati Society, of
•which he was a member, and a num
ber of respectable citizens, attend
ed the fnneral
We are happy to have it in our
power to coiitradidt that part of the
disagreeable Indian intelligence,
which mentioned the plundering of
Mr. Cafhen's store on Setilla, and
the murder of his two clerks. It
seems lonie Indians had been at
the (lore, but did not commit any
atfts of violence. The goods have
fxnte been removed from thence by
Mr. Calhen.
CHARLESTON, April 9.
Yesterday morning the French
frigate, l'Enibul'cade, commanded
by citizen BbnVpart", mounting 36
guns, and manned with 30* Teamen,
appeared off our bar ; where Ihe
came to anchor.
L'Embufcade had a passage of for
ty-two clays from Rochfort.
This veH'el was dispatched by the
French Republic with M. Geneft,
Ambaflador from the Executive
Council of that nation to the Piefi
dent and Congress of the United
States of America.
April 10. Yetlerday commodore
Gillon entertained M. Geneft, the
French Ambafl'ador, with his suite,
the officers of l'Embufcade, and a
j)umber of French citizens, at his
house in this city.
The French frigate I'Embnfcade
took one prize on her partage from
France, namely, the brig Sally,from
JQova Scoria to Barbadoes. The
capture W3S made near Bermuda,
but the prize has not yet arrived.
We arc informed, that a detach
ment of Britilh troops, amounting
to oße hundred men, have just at -
rived at Bermuda, a»id that an ad
ditional reinforcement is expedited
there—as an attack from a trench
squadron wasfei ioufly apprehended.
Monf. Genelt has favored us with
the following important intelli
gence, viz. That the National con
vention, considering that timber, of
the growth of the United States,
proper for the building of tliips, is
equal to any in the world, have
lately'parted a decree, revoking, in
favor of the United States, all the
laws which heretofore have exilled
in that country, with regard to the
sale of foreign bottoms within the
French ports ; so that American
built vell'els sent thither, for (:ile,
will in all probability meet with a
very good market.
April 13. We understand, that
bis Excellency the Governor has giv
en orders to have this harbor put
into a temporary state of defence.
Eight 18 pounders are to be lent
down to Fort Johnftou —and some
works are ordered to be thrown up
on Shaote's Folly, where several
beavy pieces of cannon are to be
planted.
The brig Morning Star, Capt.F ul
larton, which was taken by the fri
gate I'Embufcade, on the ioth inft.
came into this port yelterday ; al
so, the prize brig Four Brothers, of
Nova Scotia.
BOSTON, April 13.
A'tH' THEATRE.
On Tuesday evening, the friends of the
Drama met, for the purpo e ol opening a fub
fcr.ptiun to build an elegant houie fur Xhea-
trical Exhibitions—w he rv the (harei were
immediately filled. The number oi ftiares
was 120 —at 501. a fliare ; —and no one was
permitted to subscribe lor more than two
iliares. We are told, that a very convenient
fpotofland, in Federal-street, has been pur
chased, by the Committee, and that mealures
for building the house are in train.
The new Bridge over Charles-River, is
prosecuting with vigour. The workmen on
this lide have commenced their labours, and
from appearance will in a ftiort time complete
their business.
Married, at Nantucket, Mr. John Fair
weather, to Miss Heppy Swain. Mr. hair
weather was lingie,and an apprentice—tree- —
married and bedded—broke out with the small
pox "the natural way—/epaiated irom his
wife—and lodged in a&ofpital, all in l«fs 6han
4? hours
SPRINGFIELD (Mass.) April 16.
NATURAL CURlObll Y.
Extratt of a Utter from a gentleman living in the
county of Otfego, New-York, to his jritnd in this
county.
u I was separate a few rods from my bro
ther huntsmen, on the southeast fide of Scho
hary mountain, which lies in the county oi
Otfego, in the pursuit of game, on the 15th of
December last. As I was walking through a
thicket of oak buthes, where there was but
little snow on the ground, I unexpe<stedly
found myfelf falling into the earth. I drop
ped my gun and endeavoured to save mylelf
with my hands, but to no purpose. I went
down a distance upwards of 63 feet, as was
afterwards ascertained by measuring, without !
receiving any material injury, except bruiling j
my elbows and thighs a little. I found myfelf
in a cave upwards of 42 paces long, and about
20 wide. It was by mere accident my com
panions dilcovered me; as all the noile I was
capable of making, could not be heard at the
distance of a rod from the mouth of the ca
vity. My companions threw down one end
of a rope to me—by making myfelf fact to It,
I was, after much difficulty, drawn from the
gioomy mansion. By the fame rope the three
men who were with me, were let down, by
turn, to view the cave. It was as smooth
inside, as if it had been worked out by a ftone
cutter —and at one corner there was a small
spring of genuine cold sweet water, which
gently empties itfelf out at the opposite cor
ner. It is evident that some persons had been
so unfortunate as to fall into this cave, and
for want of afliftance, perish in it—as we
found a number of human bones on the bot
tom of the cave. The phi/ofophic mind may
here find ample employment in tracing out
the original cause of a curiosity like tjie pre
sent. I think it exceeds every curiosity
j which I ever was fpe&ator of, 111 the course
I of my life."
Philadelphia, April 24
By the Ship hdu/lry, Capt. Rudd, arrived at Ber.
■mud.l Hundred,from London, uie have thejollow
ing intere/ling adviccl ■
Pa ris, Feb. 14. Gen. Cuftine arrived here on
ths gth. He left General Wimpfen in the com
mand ol the city of Mentz, though it is report
ed that a general attack is meditated by the
Pruflian and Auilrian troops, who have block
aded thu city for the lalt two months. But a
circumstance of the most fatal afpeft to the
F<ench conquests on that fide, is, that a letter
was read in Convention on Tuesday the 12th,
which ihews, that the National Gendarmes of
Cuftine, desert every day to the enemy.
Feb. 2! • General Biron is arrived at Nice.
Pache, Racderer, and Roland, were candi
dates for the Mayoralty of Paris, Pache cariied
his eleflion by a considerable majority, and
took the oaths accordingly.
Monge, who gave in his resignation as Minis
ter of Manne, has been re-eletled.
Thev write from Leghorn, that the French
squadron deftmed for the Sardinian expedition,
was on the 23 .1 ult. flationed off Cagliari. That
thry had taken the little ifiei of St. Magdalen
and St. Pierre, whose garrison withdrew, after
having fptked their cannon, and moved their
light artillery.
Madrid, Feb. 7. The following is an ex
tract of the Madrid Gazbtt» of the yh ifift.
which officially notified the death of the King
of Fk anc* :
«' His Majesty has ordered the court to
take mourning far three months from the 3d
instant, on account of the death of his moll
Chriftiar. Majesty, Louis the XVI. King ot
France, who finifhed his career on the 2ill of
January, with a heroism equal to his hard
misfortune, and to the inhumanity of the hor
rid and unheard of outrages committed a
gainst his august person."
London, Feb. It. Though France has not
expressly declared war against Ruflia, hosti
lities are not the less open ; for the circular
letter of the minister of marine, sent to all
the ports, carries an order to lay an embar
go on all Ruffian vessels as well as others, and
this order has been executed in the port ot
Bourdeaux.
Before the ill of March, the emperor and
and the king of Prutlia, will have on foot
340.000 men, all distributed in different polls
to ast against France.
Feb. 23. We are glad to find that the fai
lures in the city are not so considerable as re
ported in yesterday's paper, and that one of
the American houses which flopped payment
a few days lmce, has been cuabled to go on
with their ai rears.
Feb. 24. The Dutch mail received yester
day, brought advice ofa smart action between
a detachment of Prussians, and a large part
of the French army under general Ciiambo
ran, before Venloo, but although attended
with much fliughter, did not prove any wife
decisive, each yarty claiming victory. The
Prutlians retained the field.
375
ExtraS oj a Utter frem Norfolk, April i 4,
<l We have an arrival from London infix
weeks, the letters are not come up—l have
feeo papers to the 25th of February. Spain
has. declared war, and 3P TaiJ of the line were
expe&ed to join the British and Dutch fleet,
about the beginning of this month. It was
said that all the veirels fitted out by France,
as privateers, were taken as tliey appeared
in the seas. We had a report that the queen
of France, was tried, condemned and execu
ted ; however, this seems premature, and
without foundation."
Captain Art, arrived last Saturday from
Chariefton, was informed that the French
had declared war against Ruflia. The frigate
L'Embnfcade, after landing the Ambailador,
Monf. Qeneft, continued opposite the bar for
tWb «t"tVee # *day*, and then disappeared.-*-
As the Delaware came out, the 1 ith instant,
(he spoke a British brig from Halifax going
into Chariefton, who informed Capt. Art that
ftie was a prize to the, French frigate.
The French AmbaiTador was to set out for
Philadelphia, it was reported, on the 9th, but
had not, however, departed, the day Capt.
Art failed ; but that he would a&ually set out
in a day or two, and his twe Secretaries
would lhortly embark in the brig Aurora,
Capt. Cross.
The Ambaflador's suite, -carriage and fur
niture was nQt ready in time for the Dela-
ware.
Innumerable reports are fabricated, and
thrown into circulation at the present day.—
Among others, that Lord Dorchester is ap- j
appointed ambaflador to the United States;
another, that he is coining to Philadelphia to
deliver up our western polls.—lt is a fa<st,
however, that a gentlenjan in this city, has
a letter from one of Lord Dorchefler's suite,
which fays, that he is going to Quebec the
ensuing spring to relume, as supposed, the go*
vernment of Canada.
Extrbft of a letter from Birmingham.
44 is farTrom being in a state <A
tranquility.—Party disputes and animosities
run as high as ever ; and though proper ex
ertions are made by many refpeftable indivi
duals on both iides to calm the violence of the
tide, it is expe&ed again to overflow its
banks with many mischievous effe&s.
44 The great bone of contention and source
of menace on one fide, and terror on the
other, appears to be this Damages were
granted:to those who were fufferers in the late
and riots—these were to be rai
sed by a kind of rate, levied, we believe, by
the vestries of the different parishes.—This
rate many individuals have absolutely refu
fed to pay. This mud consequently give oc
c all on for new trials, excite frefh animosi
ties, and jeventually, it is to be feared, pro
mote repeated and reciprocal atts of outrage-
It is certainly a most critical period, and de
mands the serious attention ot those who may
be able to prev«nt the evils which are dread
ed. V
Paflengers arrived in the William Penn,
from London.—Mr. Scott, Mrs. French,
Miss Sheaff, Mr. and Mrs. Gaifem, and three
children, Miss Yeats, Mrs. Jofiah, and five
steerage paflengers.
The Agio of the bank of Holland, which
flood at per cent. for some time, fell to
I per cent on the Bth February, on the Lon
don exchange, as appears by Lloyd's lift.—
Exchange Til Spain and Portugal was falling,
and it was rising on Dublin and Hamburgh.
Bank of England flock fell from 176 on the
Bth February, when it flood at 168 ji
Capt. Dixon, a celebrated Engli(h sea
commander, and well known for his circuin
navigatory voyages, upon a late visit to Ber
muda, fixed the latitude of St. George's, in
that island, from the mean result of a num
ber of accurate observations, to 32 deg. 22
min. ao seconds, N. and long. 64 deg. 33 min.
\V.—He advises navigators fleering in a pa
raltel of latitude for Bermuda, to prefer 32
deg. 8 min. instead of 32. 2J. as generally laid
dowu in the printed tables.
A pathetic admonition to the Roman Ca
tholics of Ireland, from five catholic bishops
then in Dublin, was read in all the chapels of
• that city on the 26th of January last—in
which the people of that pe suasion are ex
horted to gratitude to the king, for recom
mending his Roman Catholic fubjefts to the
wifdorti and liberality of parliament.—The
admonition expreflas the greatest detestation
of the enormities committed in some couu
- ties of the kingdom, by seditious and mis
guided wretches of every leligious denomi
nation, and conjures the people to avoid
every appearance of riot.
A remark has been made, that if Louis
XVI. had been less just he might have been
lets unfortunate —It is confirmed by every
view of the fubjea.—lf to any party he had
given himfelf up, he might have lived the No
minal Ruler of a land governed by a Faaioii.
The untiappy Louis was, like a Prince
whole reign is'honored by the happy test of
popular veneration, a model of Private, a
• node! ef public virtue. No ene inordinate
excefi can be recorded of him : L ke our own
Charles be might cenjure his offspring to fay
to the wife of his bosom, " that even in
thought he had ever wronged her." Reli
gion, it is well known, infufed a fortitude in
. to hi* bread, that all the intolence of littla
v'rila'tny could not discompose. His deport
ment upon his Trial was dignified and firm.
For his Family, as a man, it became hiin to
fael—but fuifering a Martyrdom, he expired
as a Martyr ; his thoughts were beyond hira
-1 fclf. £»<§•• P"p-
A correfpondsnt ohferves, that the general
I sentiment of the sovereign people was never
t perhaps more fully expretfed on any occasion,
• ' than it is in the pro«lainatiou of the President
of the United States-
BY THE
PRESIDENT of the United St aies
of America
A Proclamation
WHEREAS it appears, that a state of
war exists between Austria, Pruifia,
Sardinia, G. Britain, and the United Nether
lands, of the one part; and Franco, on the
other—and the duty and interest of the -Uni
ted States require, that they lhouhl with sin
cerity and faith adopt and pursue a csn
du<sl friendly and impartial towards the liel
ligerent powers.
I HAVE therefore thought fit by these
presents, to declare the disposition of the
United States to observe the conduct afore
faid towards those powers refpeftively; and
to exhort and warn the citizens of the United
States carefully to avoid all acts and proceed
iugs whatfqever, which may In any manner
tend to contravene such disposition.
AND I DO hereby also make known, that
whofopver of the citizens of the United States
lhall render himfelf liable to punilhment or
forfeiture under the law of nations, by com
mitting, aiding or abetting hostilities against
any of the said powers, or by carrying to any
of them those articles, which are deemed con
traband by the modern usage of nations, will
not receive the protection of the United
States against such punilhment or forfeiture ;
and further, that I have given inftru&ions to
those officers, to whom it belongs, to cause
prosecutions to be instituted against all per
sons, who lhall, within the coenizance of the
Courts of the United Stares, violate the iaw
of nations, with respect to the powers at
war, or any of them.
IN TESTIMONY whereof, I have cau
sed the Seal of the United States of
America to be affixed to thele pre
sents, and signed the fame with my
hand. Done at the City of Philadel
phia, the twenty-lbcond day of April,
, L ' f ') one thousand seven hundi ed and n'uie
—' ty-three, and of the Independence ol
the United States of America the se
venteenth.
G. Washington.
By the President,
Th: JEFFERSON,
Mr. Fenno,
There is a peculiar and very urgent rea/on far pro
pping the following qncjHan at this time, and H
is earnefily requcjled that fuck of your co'ref
pondents as miy be able to give jatisfaflory an~
fivers to the fame would be pleafea to fend them in
as fom as pqfiilt.
THE QUESTION.
SUPPOSE I ftiould be cast away upon fame
desolate iflarid, or Ihould travel into some
uncivilized country, where no kind of mathe®
matical instruments could be procured.—l want
to know what obfervacions I could make in
fujh circumstances, without the alliftance of any
other instruments, except a knife and hatchet,
or such as I cauld readily make with these—so
as to enable me afterwards, with the afliftance of
proper books, to compute, with tolerable accu
racy, the latitude and longitude of the place
where I had made such observations.
N. B. It may be taken for granted that I
frail be able to preserve an cxa& register o* all
my observations, and of the year, monih, and
day when they were made; and that I know
the names of moll of the principal fixed stars,
or at least (hall be able to point out such on
which I (Via 11 have made any observation.
It is requested that your correspondents be
very minute and particular in the d>re£l»ons
they may give, so that they may be easily un
derstood, and readily put in practice.
It is also requested that you would publish all
the answers to this question which lhall be tent
you, so that trom the whole a choice may be
made, as citcumftances may require.
A TRAVELLER.
DIED.—At Waynefborougb, Chester coun
ty, the 18th inft. Mrs. MARY WAYNE, the
amiable consort of Major-General Anthony
Wayne.
The ship Industry left the Downs about the
6tb of March—no accounts are received by
the Industry of the death of %be Queen of
France ; we may therefore conclude that the
reports to that effect are without foundation.
Npv-YanK, April 22.
An atcounthas been received fruinSt.Kitts,
that his Brittanoic Majefiy's frigate Proser
pine, of 28 guns, trad, after a smart contest,
taken and carried to that island, the French
frigate la Felicite, of 32 guns.
Last night arrived the (hip Greyhound, in
seven weeks from London,and the brig Almy,
in forty-fix days from Glal'gmv.
SHIP NEWS.
ARRIVED at the PORT 0/ PHILADELPHIA.
Ship Delaware, Art, Charleston
Biig Noah's-Ark,
Sloop Experiment, Smith,
Bctfey, Tiylor,
Betsey, Eve rage,
Delia nee y D'Uakiiow,
Phoenix, Shepard,
PRICE OF STOCKS
6 per Cents, 17/10
3 per Crnts, ; io/»
Deferred, iojß
Full ihaies Bank U. S. 10 to 11 per ce*iuprem
/
/
Peteksbusqk, April '*■
Virginia
Cap c-FiaiKioii
N orih-C jrohua
Virginia
Georga
VirginiaTo Dr. PRIESTLKY.
BY MRS. IAK.AAVID
S'J'IRS not thy spirit, Tk *»T i »» slie traia
Witb low obeifaiM'i, and with fcrvile phrase,
File It hind file, advance, w th (tipple kuefc,
Ana Jay their necks beneath the fool of power ?
Bums not thy cherk indignant, wheu thy name,
On which delighted feic'nee lov'd to dwell,
Became. rt»e bandied theme of hooting<rowds?
Willi timid caution, or with coo! refeive.
When e'en each reverend brother keeps aloof,
the struck deer, and leaves thy naked fide
A mark for Power to (hoot at ? Let it be^
" On evil da) s though fallen and evil tongues."
To thee, the flandci of a pafling age
Imports not. Scencs likethele hold little space
In his large mind, whose ample stretch of thought
Crafps future periods. — Wellcan'ft thou afford
To give large credit for that debt of fame
Thy country owes thee. Calm thou can'ft con-
sign it
To the llow payment of that distant day,
If distant, when thy name, to freedom's join'd,
Shall meet the thanks of a regenerate land.
London, Dec. 29, 1792.
A N EPIGRAM,
Said to be written by the unfortunate G. Harrington,
on the Duk£ of Richmond having infer ibtd his
J* wily vault it Uh the title oj Domu 6 Ultima.
Did he who thus inferib'd this wall,
Not read or not believe Saint Paul ?
Who fays there ii, where'er it (lands,
Another house not made with hands.
Or shall we gather from these words,
That house is not a house of Lords i
JUST PUBLISHED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
Book feller t at the Stone- House, in Second flreet y
£'HI lade L phi A,
VOLUME VIII, or
ENCYCLOPEDIA:
on, « DICTIONARY of ARTS, SCIENCES,
and MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
On a Plan entirely nay :
BT WHICH
Tut Different SCIENCES akd ARTS
arc di{;cl\cd iruo the Form of Dlftiuft,
TREATISES or SYSTEMS :
THIS VOLUME CONTAINS
AN Account of Uie Cap.- of Goocj Hope,
Grafting, Universal Grammar, Graflts,
Greece, Greenlaitd, Guam, Guinea, Gunnery,
Happiness, Harmony, Heat, Hepatic-Air, He
raldiy t Hindofltan,Hippopo(aivus,Hiftory. New-
Holland, Horse, Horsemanship, Hpucntou,
Hunting, Hufbjndry, Hydrometer, with a great
variety ol Biographical and Mifcellaueous Arti
cles- Embelliflied with fixteeh Copperplates.
CONDITIONS.
I. The work is printing on a fuperfine paper,
and new types, (end for the purpofc) which
will be occasionally renewed before they con
tradl a worn appearance.
The work is in boards, in volumes
or hdlf-volumcs, as fubferibers chufe; the price
ol the whole volumes, five dollars each, ot the
half-volumes two dollars two-thirds ol a
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on fub
fcribmg, the volumes Or hal£vdlumes finiilied
to be paid for when delivered, the price of one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each fucceedingvolume to be paid on deliver
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
work will be delivered unless paid for.
111. In the cpuife of the publication will be de
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia: which by
far exceed in number ihofe given in any other
fcientifie diflionary. At the close of the pub
lication will be delivered an eltgant frontif
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages fnr the different volumes,
It is expected the work will be computed in
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
(Ps Asfeveralgtntkmenu>ho have honored this
undertaking zuith early futjeriptims, have only re
teived a fntallpart oj the amrk, they are earnejlh
iequtjled to complete their Jets, *i far as pMiJhci,
immediately, while the pubhjhcr Jlill has it in his
flower tafiipfdy them with the parts which have not
been furnijhed. As the fuhjeription will very poffi
ily he clu/ed by the flrjl of July next, the publi/her
tan not undertake to complete Jets after that period ;
and thoje who nit'/k to become pojfejors of this truly
valuable and important work, will pleaje apply before
the expiration oj that time, that they max IP' bt dis
appointed.
The very heavy expence necejarily incurred-in car
rying on this work, wakes it indispensably reqvifite
jor the pubhjher to adhere more Jlrrfl/)' than he has
done to the original condition, oj delivering the vo
lumes on\ on hting paid jor them,
April 6; 1793,
NEW TEAS.
IMPERIAL, HYSON&SOUCHONG
Ofthe very fir ft Quality,and latest importation
fro® Canton,New-York,,by retail,at
No. 19,
Third, between Chcfnut and Market Streets,
N. B. AJiui Ihxtl oj the abtxf HYSON for file.
Jttft publijhed,
By THOMAS DOBSQN,
At tht Stone Houft, tfo. 41', South Second-Street,
A C A
Decided in tlie Supbxmk Cou*t of the Dotted
States, in which is difcuired the JJueftion,
WHKTHER A STATE IS LIABLE TO BE
SUED BY A PRIVATE CITIZEN OF
ANOTHER STATE?
Price Half a Dollar.
DtSTßict of Pennsy l v anla, to wt.
T\Z IT REMEM3KRF.D That on
( Seal. ) X> the thirteenth day of March, in
\ / the seventeenth year of the Indepen
dence ot the United States of Amcrtca,
Thomas Dobsok, of the said D ftri£t, hath de
ported «n this Otfice, the Twl<- ot Bonk, the
Right whereof he claims as Proprietor, in the
woids following, to wit.
" An inquiry how Jar the Punijhmtnt of Death
" is nccejjiiry in Pennfilvania. With Xvtes and
" Jl'ufliations. liy William Bradford, t.fq.
<* To which is added, an Account oj the Gaol and
'• Penitentiary HvuJ'e oj Philadelphia, and of the.
t( interior Management thereof. By Caleb
" Lownes, of Philadelphia. 1J we enquire
" into the Causes oj ail human Corruptions, we
" /hall find that they proceed from the Impunity
" of Crimes, and not from the Moderation oj Pu
" ni/hments." Montefq.
In conformity tp. the Ad of the Congress of
the United States, intituled!, " An Ast for the
Encouragement of Learning, by fearng the
Copies of Maps, Chans and Books, torthe Au
thors aod Proprietors of such Cupies 1 during the
Times therein mentioned."
SAMUEI. CALDWELL,
Clerk of the Diitritt of Pennsylvania.
pf" The above work is fuld in Cha 1; teflon by
William Price Young : Richmond, by Archibald
Curric : Baltimore, by James Rice :
by I lorn a s Allen : Ho ft on by David Weft.
ADVERTISEMENT.
WHEREAS ;< BRIDGE is to be built over
Rarttan River, at the city of Ni w-Brunf
wtck, in the state of New-Jersey—to accomplish
which, will require the i'ervice of many carpen
ters and masons of experience ; Noticc is there
fore hereby given, that any pet son or perions in
clining to undertake the whole, or any part there
of, by applying to the fubferibers, on or before
the firftday of May next, may have an opportu
nity of contracting for the fame.
JOHN BAYARD,
JACOB HARDENBURGH,
JOHN DENNIS, Sen.
Brun/wicky March 24th. tpsw
[BEE.]
hi Ordinance
Payment oj
Subscriptions to the Society for ejla
blifhing Ufeful Manufactures.
WHEREAS doubts have heretofoic arisen
with regard to the power of the Society
to annex any penalties to the non-payment of th«
inftalmcnts, agreeably to the terms ~f the fub
fcrip'.ions. And wheieas the Legifl.uure at their
lad lellions, pallvd a fupplcmem to the original
law of incorporaiion, removing the said doubts,
and fully authorizing the Dire&ors to pafl any
ordinance they may think pioper, to compel ihe
punctual payment of the said subscriptions.
Src. 1. Be it ordained, therefore. b\ the Governor
and Diredors of the Society for efiahlijhirtg Oje/ul
Mar.ujadnrei,That if any fubferiber or 'nisaffigris,
(hall neglect to pay the second paym nt of his,
her, or their Jefpc&ive fubfcriptiotis, together
with the lawful intereii arising iheieon, either to
the calhier of the United States Bank Office of
Difc'ourit and Deposit, at New-Yoik,tlrexafhier
of the Bank of New-York, the calhiefof the
Bank of the United States, la Philadelphia, of
John Bayard, E(q. in the city ol New,Brunf
wick, in the tlate of New- Jerley, on or be:ore
the thirteenth day of April next : That then and
in that cafe, all and tvery Pnaie or shares of such
person or persons so neglecting to make such pay
ments as afore laid, and the monies by them pte
viouflv paid, shall be forfeited, and forever there
alter veiled in the said Dirc&ots, and their fuc
ceflors, lor the common benefit of the said So-
cicty.
' ®®$i .*• ItJUrther irdahttd by thfatkirUy
afoTifatd, That if any fublicriber, or his afCgns,
(hall negieft to pay (he thiid payment of his, her
or their refpeftive subscriptions, together with
the lawful interest arising theieon, on or bffore
the thirteenth day of May, next. That then and
in that cafe all and every share 01 (hares of such
person or petfons so iieglr&ing 10 make luch
payments as aforefaid, and the monies,by them
previously paid, (hall be forfeited, and forever
thereafter veiled in the said Diicflors, and their
fucccffors, for the common benefit of the iaul
Society,
Sec. 3. A dbe itfurther ordained by the authority
aforefaid, That if a[lY fubfr.ribcr, or his afligns,
(hall nrgigfl 10 pay the fourth payment of l is,
her.oj- their refpe&ive fubfcripiions,on or before
the thirteennih day of July next, that then and in
that cafe, all ajid every lhare or (hares of such
person or persons, so neglr&ing to make such
payments as aforefaid, and the monies by thetn
previously paid, (hall be forfeited, and forever
thereafter veiled tn the said Dircftors, andtheir
fucceflbrs, for the common benefit ot the said
Society. NICHOLAS LOW, Governor.
Pajfcd, at A'ew-Ark, soth February, 1 ;qo.
(Counterftgned) ELISHA BOUDINOT,
Secretary pro temoore.
BE IT KNOWN, thirt the proportion of..f«e
cie which may be paid on the refpeftive pay
ments of every oiiginal (hare, i>y fiich Stock
holders as prefer paying a moiety of Jaid (hares
in specie, in lieu of deterred debt, is as follows :
-Dolt'. Cts.
On the 131b of April, 1793, wilh in.
cereil from 131b July. 1792,
On the 13th ol May, 1793, wilh in
tcreft from 13th January, 1793, 7 gg
On the 13th of July, j 793, 8
-Morkholders in the laid Society are hereby
notified, that t, the fiifcfrpbe.r, am duly autho
red to make the requift.e mdorfement, upon
the certificates of (hares which they may refpec.
lively hold, and that books of transfer are open,
et! at my office, in Frout-ftrret, New-York.
Nicholas low.
law t: 3M.
epim
February 21 1 1793.
S E,
or fe curing the pttnttual
the Monies due on the
7~ 63
376
By THOMAS JOHNSON, DAVID
STUART.&. DANIEL CARROLL,
Esquires,
Commissi or. ers appointed by Government to
prepare the Public Buildings, &c. within the
City of Wajkivgton, tor the reccpnon of Con
gress, and tor iticir permanent icfidcucc alter
the year 1800—
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THE
Federal City.
7 dollars, are 350,000 doJUr*.
LIST OF PRIZES, viz
l Supcib Hotel, with bath*, )
out hnufc*, to cost {
. i Gaih Pnx«
i ditto
i ditto
1 ditto
2 d i tio
5.000 are
1,000
500
100
5°
2 5
20
10
lO ditto
20 ditto
jOO ditto
200 ditto
400 ditto
1,000 ditto
15,000 ditto
16,737
33,263 Blanks
50,000
By this scheme at leaji the amount of the tick
ets will return to the fortunate adventurers, ancj
yet the fedeial Cttv wi'l gain its object thereby,
in a magnificent building defined both for'pub
lic and private convenience.
Although some expcncc mud neceflarily at
tend the condu&iug of the lottery, (which ex
pcnce will be talten from the principal pnae) the
Cotnmiflioners having agreed to present in re
turn a (ufficient quamiiy of excellent fiee-ftone,
together with the bell adapted lors tor the hoiel
and for the out-houfes, the value of the lottery
entire may be fairly rated at fum&thing more than
par: In this i-mportant instance ii will be found,
on examination, to exceed all the lotteries that
have ever been offered to the Public in this or
perhaps in any other country. The keys of the
Hotel, when compleat, will be delivered to the
fortunate pofiVfTor of the ticket drawn aagaiuft
its number. — All the other prizes will be paid,
withoutdtduflicriyin one month ajter the d, awing,\>y
the City Treafurcr at Washington, or at such
Bank or Banks as may be hereafter announced,
for the conveniency of the fortunate adventurers.
The drawing will commence on Monday the
9th of September nexi, alike City of Washing
ton
Tickets may be had of Col. Wm. Dickens, City
Treasurer of Waftiington ; Ttiaxer & Bartije!, of
Char lefton, South-Carolina ; Gideon Dcnijon, Sa
vannah ; Mctfrs. James lVe/l&Co. iiakwnore ;
Mr. Peter Gilman, Button; and at such olhcr
places as will be hereaftei publiftied.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be giver, for ihebclt Plan of an elegant and con
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and <- o ld
Baths, Stables, and other ou' houses, ij presented
on or before the toth of April text; and a ore
fffreftce will he given 10 the Artiit for a Con
tiatf, provided he be duly qualified to
compleat his plan. The ground on which
ihe Hotel and out houses are to be ctefted, will
be a corner lot of about go bv boo feet, with 9
back avenue to the stables, Set. Sc&ioi>» ai.d
estimates of the expense will he exprfted
with the elevations, <Scc. compleat ; and .50,000
dollars imift be regarded by ihe Architcfl as the
utmost limit in the expense intended lor this
P ur P ose - S. BLODGET,
Agent for the attain of the City.
March 6, 17,93.
War Department,
. January 28, 170.1.
TNFORMATION is hereby given to all the
X iniiitary Invalids of the United States, that
the sums to which they are entitled tor fix
months of their annual ptnfion, from the 4th day
ot September 1792, and which will become due
qa thesth day °t March 1793, will be paid on
the laid day by the Commiflioners of ihe Loans
within the ftaics refpeflivcly, under the usual
regulations, viz.
Every application for payment mud be ac.
companied by the following vouchers :
1 lie certificate given by the ilate, fpecitv
ing that the person polkAing the lame is in ta'ci
an Invalid, and ascertaining the l'um to which,
as luch, he is annually in'.ided.
An affidavit agreeably to tfje following
A. tf. caipe betore me, one of ttje Justices
of the county of i„ ,he date of and
made oath that he is the fame A. B. to whom
the original certificate in his poffclßon was giv
en, of which the following is a copy (the ?cr
tificate given by the state to be iccited) That
ne lerved (regimem, corps or veffd) at the
time he wasdtlabled, ano that he now lefijdn
1.1 the and county of and ha» resided
he C r r efi£d P'"' o "* W which
In cafe an Invalid (hould apply for payment
by an auoiney, the said attorney, besides the
certificate and oath before recited, must produce
• Ipecial letter of attorney agreeable to the sol.
lowing form :
J county of state of
do hertby conltiiute and appoint Q. D. of
iny lawful attorney, to receive in my behalf of
„f,h' n ?, PC " r J°. Dforrix momh£ > " a " lovalid
mnh - Un,ted Stales, from the 4 ih dny 6f Scp
'792 ' a " d Cnd '"6 lht 4'h day of March
Signed and Sealed
in tlie Presence of
Acknow'cdgcd before me,
° f cx ? c,un, » «'«» adminiflrators
mult ~e accompamed wnh Ugal rvidfnce of
i VM" 0 ®" 5 ' Jnd " lf » of the limethe
Invalid died, whose peniia,: ,hc V may cia !n i.
By Command ol the- Pi.lWtnt
of ihe Uniifd Stales,
H. KNOX, Sccreltry at War.
50,000
25,00«
80,003
15,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10,000
10.000
10,000
30,0©0
350,000
Dollars 350,000
Stock Brokers Office,
No. 16, WaiMbrrt, N«w.y oik
THfcSubfciiber intruding to emfinehiaiM
entirely to the PI'KCH ASs & . 1
STOCKS on COMM
fer his feiviccs to hi, fuendt and .uUr. i„,V
line of a Stoekß.oker, Those ».ho mj.'pU,V
to favor him with iheir buf,i,e(». ,„, v ' d ; '
oprm h«vinsi,.r,nf i a e Uwufc,bcu tßn , hS '' <
jit.y and ailpatcn.
Order, from Ph-ladrlphi,, Boftoo
other part ..ftiie Untied Slues,
.ittrodcd 10. Wl !
(t.'f.)
LKOVARD KUfCKI R
to yt: sold,
A noted coveringHorfc.
OF THE HUNTING RREED.
He .11 iinputted KngUwi Sot,,™
ber, [tvciw.i, hundred and „j
is now ten yea,, old ; lie i» a blight bay, *",1
blaze,fifteen handsnnr inch i, wellfgr-,,',)'
has a great deal of bone and llrengih, ond h.l
aaiou equal to any h.irfe. His colts .ve Wt ii
approved of in the differ, nt pari, of t|,e Stll.
where he hasaood.ot which any p t rfo» inclined
to purchjfe can inform theinfclves. r„
of the Printer.
February 18. 1703.
Post-Road
TO THE GENESEE COUNTRY.
THF. public ate hereby informed, tbat thj
Post-Road from Philadelphia to Rcadiu.
is continued in Sunbuiy and Northumberland"
thence up the Weft Branch of the Sufqurhannall
as far as I.icoming; thcnce to the Paimed Puft
(in New-York !Ute, near the forks ol iht Tinea)
thcnce to Bath (a town laid out on thcCohofton
Branch of the Tioga) thtuce to Williamflxir*,
at the forks of Genefee River.
Letters for this new route'will be fawfrin
the Philadelphia Poft.OSce evxry Wednrliiay
morning, tight o'clock., with thf B)«il tci
Reading. »*
A wefkly mail will also be tafficd from
Bethlehem to Wilfkefbarre, in the county of
Luzerne.
Ccncr.nl Psfl'-Oficc, April &, 17.93.
Vinall's Arithmetic.
THE Second Edition of ihi.s woik, with irtj.
provements, will fpcedily be puttoprefs.
The rapid falc ot the ftrfl edition*, greatly be
yond the author's molt f*nguine exprduinas
encourdges him to print a second edition. He
intends to have it printed upon much better pa
per than the former, and with a new type.
Those Booksellers who wish to take a num
ber of copies in (heets, are requeftcd to apply to
the author tor particulars.
* 1000 C opies.
At a meeting of the School ComurTin,
February £th, 1795,
The Committee, appqintcd ui enarnmeTke
Pieceptor'ij Afyfofti, or Student's Guide," being
a fyltemalical treatifr of Arithmetic, by Jos*
Vi»ALt, teacher of the Mathematics te Wiit.
ing, in Bolton, reported, that they have attended
that lervice, aud are 9l I'o juon, that, the wort
ia executed with judgtneitt, aud is at well calcic
latcd lor the use of [chooU, counting liqulVi, Jn4
private families;, as any of the fame corapilt*
that has hitherto been offered to the public.
Voted, Tlui the above report be accepted,
and that Ml. Vi Nai, lbe furoifncd yvub iatff,
pi it, whenever he (hall desire i^.
Copv of the Repordi. Atfcft,
CHARLES BULFINCH, Sec'ry.
The following character of the above work,
is given in the Review of the MaJJachvfetti Ma~
gazine, for Jan. 1793 :
44 This is a very ufeful work, and is no ill
proof of and induilry of the author.
The rules arc laid down with propriety, and
the examples annexed are luffiuent for their iJ
luftration. One part of the work doMtf P 4 '-
ticuUr commendation. We mean that which,
the author stiles " Mercantile Arithmetic." It
occupies a considerable portion of his book, but
not more than its importance will jnftify. We
would recommend to the young Arithmetician
to pay a particular attention to Litis branch.
He will find its principles well explained And
should he make himfelf master of them, he will
always have reason to acknowledge bis obliga
tion to the judicious and laborious author. Wo
cannot but congratulate tberifing generation or>
account of the many ufeful prod unions which
have lately appealed; and in which their im
provement lus been principally consulted.—
Among t.hofe productions we inufl place this
treatise of Arithmetic. We should be wanting
in justice to the author, should we not acknow
ledge that his work is in reality that which i'f
litle imports—The Pr eceptor's Assistant,
or Student's Guide."
Bojlwy Feb. 13.
City of Washington.
January 7th, 1793.
A NUMBER of Lots in this City will bjp
tered l.oir faJe at aulitafij by the Com mil*
fioners, on the 17th day of September next. —
One fourth part of the purchase money is to be
paid down, the refidueat three equal annual pay
ments with yearly intcfreiloo the whole princi
pal unpaid.
JOHN M. GANTT, Clerk to the Cm'ru
Extract of an A6l of the General Assembly of
Maryland, concerning the Territory of Co
lumbia, and the City ot Wafhing*>n.
41 Be it enacted, That anv foreigner may so
deed or will, hereafter to be made. take and hold kui&
"within that part of the J aid Territory which Ites wilk
in this State, in the fame manner as if he a<as a citi
zen of this State ; and the fame lands may be coir
veyed by him, and transmitted to and be inherited bf
his heirs or relations, as if he and they were citizen
of thii State : Provided, That no foreigner
in virtue hereof be entitled ta any further or othtf
privilege of a citizen
I 1
I. C. A. A. A. S.