A WWW wa , HJBtWttED »l> JWmWßMwgr. MIUMIX
[No. 114 of Vol. IV.]
To the Public.
*T~*HE Editor of the Gaktte of the Ukited
*■ States, proposes publifliing the Paper,
wider that Title, every Evening, Sumiay'j
excepted
To render it interesting as a Daily Publi
cation, it shall contain foreign and donieftir,
commercial and political Intelligence —Ef-
Jays and local and genera]
Maritime information :—Prices Current of
Merchandiie and the Public Fdnds. Also a
fommary of the proceedings of Congress, and
ps the Legjilature of this State :—with a
Sketch of CongreGorral Debated, Brc.
Advertizing favors Will be gratefully re-
TERMS.
To be printed on paper of the demy size ;
hot * larger size ftafl be fabftituted in Decem
ber next.
The price Six Dollars per Annum, to be
paid half Yearly.
When a fufficient number of Subscribers is
obtained, the Publication (hall commence.
In the interim, the Gazette will be publiih
ed twice a week as ufual.—Siibfcriptionsare
refpeftfully solicited by the Public's humble
servant,
JOHN FENNO.
Suffitiktiovs trt received at the City Tavern,
South Second Street ~by Mr. DobJijn, at the ttcrc
House—by other te r jor.s who <tre in '>/ lab
fcriptipn papers, and by tie Sditor at Ail hoitfe,
So. 34, Aorth FijiJi.Strett.
Philadelphia, July, 1793'
THE EO ITOR
MOST earvejth reqvejls those of his dijtavt Suj
frtiers !oho are in arrearsJor the Gazette, to matt
'payment as fio* a< pofllble.—Thofe ptrfons who have
receivedfubfeription money Oft Iris account are drfired
to remit the fame. The arrearages for the Gazette
hive accumulated to ajerious amount—Serious, &s
they are the only resource to di(chargevery Jtrious
engagements incurred in the prosecution of this ex
fen jive publication. Philadelphia, June 26.
LAW CASE.
Robert Findhy, jun. and other J, )
C Lilef filed.
Ship William.
fficetch of the Pleadings in this important cafe,
concluded.
Mr, Lewis on the part of tne libellaots.
THE honor and dignity of the United States,
he were deeply involved in »he de
ciiion of this cafe ; it involves a violation of
Ihe peace of the country ; for if when two
powers are at war, one may invade our ter-
Titory, our commercial Jntercourfe wfth fo
reign nations, and our tranquility become
-BjareriaUy interrupted. Was this an abso
lute government, where the sovereign, oi his
own free will, can repel force by force, the
femedy in a similar cafe would be at hand,
and be adequate : But as in our government
the Executive is far from unlimited, a court
of admiralty, forming its decision on the prin
ciples of the law of nations, is the proper tri
bunal for the trial of such causes. On the
ground upon which the counsel on the other
fide wiftied to put the business, it would ap
pear, that our only remedy would be, in cafe
a little privateer chose even to cut enemy's
veiTels from our very wharves, for the Pi efi
dent to request, without an opportunity of
commanding restitution. He hoped, for his
j>art, that the President would never again be
placed in the di(agreeable situation that lie
was not long since, when a who'.e week had
elapsed after his pleafnre was known, before
restitution was made of a late capture. Ii the
of the court is not sustained, tlren
we are not on an equal footing with other na
tion"; we can only rcmonltrate and pray
for rcftitntion in cale of infringement, and
history teaches us, that a nation without a
tefpe&able armed force, is the furferer by eve
ry negotiation. It has been observed, that
our meddling in matters of the nature of the
cautc before the court would tend to involve
us in war; he rather conceived, that our per
fuitting one nation to annoy its enemy with
in otir jurifdittion without our resenting the
inJuit, have that effect ; indeed, if the
privateer was authorised to co what (lie has
<lone the ast is tantamount to a declaration
of war. He dwelt on the importance of pre
serving peace, and he conceived that a de
cision in this court, agreeably to tl»e law of
rations wou4 teno to effect that deferable ob
jca.
Tits count;! on the other fide had
cstftii% cogniaance at' the prelfcnt caute would
be a violation of the treat*, ami that in call
of a violation on our part the whole treaty is
virtually annulled. The court he was Core,
■vera not to-be-intimidated by such argument ;
Indeed if the treaty is violated, it certainly
is by the flibjeifts of that nation to whom the
privateer helufij>s.
We have bt'cn told said Mr. Lewi-s, that
the court is«not competent to relief in all ca
ses of this kind ; that the William could have
been taken to,Cape-Francois, or any trh< r«
else out of its jnrifdiftion. It might hipperi,
and it often does happen he said, that a cri
minal efdapes atrial in a court within the ju
rifdidfcion of wbieh he has committed an of
fence ; the argument goes only to (hew the
inadequacy of all human institutions in cer
tain cases i hut certainly while we hold the
criminal we ftiuuld inflict the punilhinent.
It had been said, that the court had .not the
power of bi*if>ss impartial i,n the bufinefi, they
could no* condcinn the prrft. He contended,
that there was no jult foundation for this
charge of partiality j IhwiVd a Britilh priva
teer ever be in the lituation of the I'rench is
this instance the law to him would be as it is
to the French in this ca e.
■ ,r \
It bad been said that the owner of the lh:p
William had a remedy by applying to the
court of admiralty, who fliould condemn the
prize in France. On this he remarked, that
there appeared little difpofitiou on the part of
Hiofe concerned in the Citizen Getiet, to take
the William to France, and that a plea could
not be held theie unless the prize was actu
ally brought within the juiifdiftion of that
court. Beside*, though the court in France
might determine whether the capture was le
gal, yet they would do it without an eye to
her being taken within our territo y, leaving
the vindication of our rights of fovtreignty
to ourselves.
He cited 2 Vat 92 tn shew, that it is un
lawful to enter a neutral country in a hostile
manner.
It had bee* said, that this is a cause be
tween the citizens of Great-Britain and the
citizens of France, he considered it as the
eanfe of America herfelf, in as much as it
was the intevefl and duty ef this c ountry ro pre
fer ve a ftri& neutrality : and fiie will he cal
led upon he added for fatnfa&ion, it the cap
ture is not restored, more particularly as the
p r ivateer that took the William was fitted
our in an American port.
I Vat. 289 fays, that veflfbls taken within
the distance of a neutral shore mentioned in
the pre Pent libel are not lawful, 3 Vat. I^2
to the fame point.
Molloy, P. 183 contain* a cafe in point.
L«?e 12l records, that the Romans did not
venture to pursue the Carthaginians into the
port of a neutral prince ; but he had an arm
ed force to make his port refpe&ed ; were we
in the fame fituacion, we (houid not be injured
by the English folding our polls in spite of
treaty, nor insulted by a violation of our ter
ritorial rights by a French privateer.
The P *efident it was said fhou'd l?e applied
to for a of this bufiiefs, that there
is 110 instance of a cause of this kind being
brought into a court of admiralty. No, an
absolute monarch would have fettled 't with
out au admiralty court; but our executive has
no strong arm to enforce obedience to its de
cision ; the cau e is therefore brought here in
a court wliich is guided by the principles of
the law of nations, free and impartial to all.
He further answered to the ojjc&ion, that
no instance can be produced of a llmilar cafe
b.;frig brought into a court of admiralty, that
this only (hewed, that the privateer had gone
further than any one before her ; after in
juring our trade by watching off our rivers
and bays for veXels, after ha/ing made a
capture on our territory, they had added in
fu't to injury and brought the prize to our ve
ry feat of government an ast altogether un
precedented for audacity.
Mr. Lewis insisted on the propriety of not
parting with the property captured without
obtaining redress for the violation of our neu
tral ty; the court does want to fettle whether
there was fufficient cause of rupture between
France and England ; but we have a right to
detain thecaptuie to secure ourselves.
He adverted to the treaty. The pr©vi
fions of it are Airily not intended, he said, to
prevent our enqui'ing whether 3 violation
has been committed on our rights of territory.
If this fliould be the conftruftiou, how can the
Prelident, or even Congrcls interfere without
a violation of the treaty ?
Mr. Lewis concluded by referring to Lee
86, 87,93, 94, 95,9 6 » 78 and 79» ** containing
information on the present cafe.
This mutilated and cramped account will
fervc to give but a faint idea of the mafteriy
manner in which Mr. Lewis handled the cafe.
It is far less diftinft or complete than our
sketch of the obfervattons which fell from the
other counsel on this question ; the rapidity
of bis utterance must plead our excuse.
Judge Peters deiiveied his decree for dif
mifling the present libel as lelevant—which
(hall appear in our next.
453
Wednesday, July j. 1795.
-X*;
ign Intelligence.
PETERS BURGH, Match 26.
COUNT d'Artois, brother to the
late Louis the XVlih, having
obtained the consent of the Eniprets
to visit this Court, armed here on
the 23d inft. The Court carriages
were lent to fetch him and his suite,
and the Vice-Chancellor Olterinan
received hirti on the part of the Em
ptefs in a hotel prepared by ber
Majelly's order, and at her expence,
for the reception of his Royal Higli
nefs. 7he day befoi e yeiterd«y the
Prince was introduced to our .Sove
reign. Yeilerday he received the
compliments of the Senate, Regen
cy, and the city of Pete-r-iburgh, and
this day lie wilj be Vifired by the
Foreign Minillers. Previous to bis
ar/iva! our Court took a decilive
step in acknowledging Monsieur,
brother to Louis XVlth, as Regent
of France during the f.nnority of
the lawful heir to the Throne, de
tained prisoner at Paris, and Count
d'Artois as Lieutenant General of
the kingdom. The Count d'Artois
wished to remain mcog. but in the
present circumstances the Empress
thought it proper that he Ihould ap
pear with all the honors due to his
rank and birth, and has in conse
quence appointed hijn two cham
berlains, and two gentlemen of bis
chambers.
WAR S A W, April !J.
Theday beforeyellerday iheking
set out from this place, for Grodno.
At every port a Ruffian elcorc is (la
tinned to recei»e his majesty, and
the Ruffian anibaflador will confer
with him at Bialoltock, 011 the ob
jetfts which are to be afterwards the
fubjeifts of deliberation.
'1 he a<ft of the Prussians taking
poflcffion offeveral of our Provinces,
will be fagued in the Diet, which,in
future, is to be aflembled every four
or fix years ; and in the inteivals,
public affairs are to be directed by
the Permanent Council.
The Confederation General of
Lithuania has ordered the HettnatM
to proceed with the uimolt rigour
again!} the French, established with
in the extent of the Grand Duchy,
and to oblige them to take the oath
requited from those of the fame na
tion who are in Ruflia.
BRUSSELS, April 24.
The bulletin of the rtuftnan ar
my published this day, and dated
frorm the head quarters at Quiev
rain, contains an account of its ope
rations on the 171b, 18111,19111,201b,
1 lit, and 22d, instant.
On the i7'.h the enemy made two
attempts to alarm our out polts, but
failed both times, and one of their
pat.roles, confuting of 40 men, fell
into an ambuscade, and molt of thein
were killed and taken. The duke
of York arrived ttie (anie day at
Bruges with a corps of Kngiilh
troops. Nothing remarkable palled
on the ißth and 19th. On tlie2otli
the duke of York, with the tnglilh
troops, entered Courtray. On the
2lit lieutenant-general Count de
lintonr set r>ff to harrafs the enemy,
and surprize the little camp taj the
road from Maubeuge aud Boudoir,
which he effected and obliged the
enemy to abandon it, and retire
with precipitation ; they were also
dislodged from all their polls, and
obliged to pass the Sambre. They
101 l»n this occyfion 30 prisoners,
and had a great number killed and
wounded ; we had only four men
wounded. The fameday the Ktench
made a ltrong attack on our advanc
ed posts on the fide of Bavai, but
were repulsed ; their loft we are
ignorant of ; »e had only one kill-
[Whole No. 456".]
Ed, and five wounded. On the f'»?-
lowing night ail the troops r* Coined
their ancient jiofiiion.
His htghneC* the arch d»ifce
Charles ari i»ed hereyellerday irotp
the army.
v- • r
A severe ordinance has been pub
lished by the council of Brabant a
gninft the French-Liegeois andUutch
emigrants: According to th s they
cannot enter the Low Countries,utr
lefs furnifhed with a paflport from
the commandant of ihr fir ft milita
ry poll, nor can they Way in the
country above three davs without
special permiHiou from the Govern
ment General. 1 hose who h"ve
taken up 'heir abode since the firlt
of July »73p, cannot continue in
the country without a fmiilar per
milii 011 t and those who were here
previous torttar time til ait give an
account wiihin a week of their pro
feflion and means of ftibfiile nee.
Their fervent* oruft also be defer ib
ed nominally and individually.
LONDON, May 7.
The Elei'tor of Saxony h;ts obtain
ed from the Stales permillion to lufr
pend the payment of the intend
upon the public debt during Ihe
war —The fame thing was done 111
Saxony in the year 1 778
There are now none of ;he ci ite
vanr Royal Family leroainiug 11. f* .-
ris but the prisoners in heie<' pie.
Philip Egaliie was firft
to ihe A.bbaye, bur hai lii.ee' 'b tn
trmtferifd to MaifeiJlts,
with Kgilitr,
his foh, and Louis Praticis-Jolejili,
heretofore Print* of Cvti.
One of the Kieneh papers (peaks
of the superior fininefs ajid Ucon.
ism of young Egaliie, a boy ot thir
teen ! His interrogatory wa* brief-,
ly this ; " Are you an ArjUocraiJ
Yes.— 1)0 yon know any fa
ther's plans ? No.—Have »t\y
connection with Mad. Silvery ? QJ»
fie !" .
E*tr*& of a Jetter from Eraf&U
His Imperial Riajcfty, wilh : n2
to bury in oblivion every thing that
tended to the Kclgic revolution, ii
going to publi/h a general ainntliy
which is to extend even to ihofe whi
were condemned during the trou
bles, his in»jelly being desirous to
rellore theii honor, and even to liv
deinnify them, if poflible, For thi«
pu'pole, all prolecutions commenc
ed, have been (tapped : the amnes
ty is to extend to all deferrers who
lhall return to their corp# before
the rinonth of October, except it (hall
appear that they have been guihy
of other critne» bclides th..t of de
fer! ion.
" On Satardfty last * nia(Vt»«<?n«
firm the union was celebrated here,
in token of the reconciliation of All
parties, which was conduced with
every demon II ration of joy. After
the ifiMs,rejoicings took place which
laftfd ibe whole da/." >
Tlie French general Mar«fte,wlMt
commanded at Antwerp, ha» emi
grated, with ioine other officers.
On the 17th inft. Garin, admini.
ftralor of provisions, declared Lnthe
fitting oF the Coniqiune, ibat there
'were in Paris provisions fufficient
for three months.
The King of Poland is now reluct
taut'y travelling to Gredrio,by com
mand of the Empreis, under an es
cort of fom'e. Ruliian troops, to fane
tion the alienation and parti.ion of
his kingdom. Yet, on tbis degrad
ing outrage, declaiu>ers on the sa
cred characters of kings are filenr,
becanfe it is not the adt of fnbjetfs
endeavoring to break the hands of
despotism, but of crowned heads
endeavoring to gratify their lull
for dominion ! !
fso
April 33.Gen. Miranda, in lii* jufllScafrry
memorial, in exculpation of iiiuilelf,
tbl ows- ail the blame on Dumow ier,
whom lie accufeiof tre.ilon.
The moll positive contradiction
is given'io fonie very absurd reports
v.tiich had been indiiltiioofly e
nough circulated relpeciiiig two
BaibiJi-I'jancci now on the Conti
nent. The public are itnieated to
give-J-iwie-ocedk toany fiich reborn.
) h'is is the day appointed for all
the inhabitants oP the 1 olnh pro
vinces taken po (It lii on ot by the
Icing or Fruflia to take the oath of
fidelity to that monarch. Count
Hei izberg is the petfon whom his
mnjellv has sent to repj efent him
on (hat ntdiinn.
The acconni ofc iHe fud !en death
f>f Dr. Lettfoin is untrue. 1 tie
doiftor has contradicted it in a let
ter l'ubfcribed by binifelf.
Letter from Gen. Dampierre to the
National Convention ot France,
written before his nomination to
be Commander in Chiet ot the
northern army.
" Finding itie republican danger,
1 have taken fiuc.h extraordinary
mealuresas 1 Hope will mtft your
appi obaiion. 1 will rally to your
- standard as much as pofTible the
jroops, and all good citizens to
counteract the designs of a traitor,
who has now thrown off the niatk.
1 dispatch to you ci' ip.en I ardie,
officer of enginry ; he has been wit
ness to all the intrigues ot Ijumoo
rier and. his little circle ; and ot :t!l
that horrid scene ot vi 1 lainy cI which
those he entertained about him were
capable. He will-let you into a lull ■
■ knowledge of all this dark hiftoiy.
It is my wiflt to save my country
.'I wait with impatience for your as
filtance and pro edtion. I oifer mv
felfbecaufe 1 fee no other general
that will come forward. When a
superior is appointed, who has his
country's falvaiion at heart, and the
independence ofthe republic, 1 will
obey his orders to the lalt extremi
ty."
Never was an age so fertile as the
present in chemical discoveries. Ac
cident some time ago proved, that
animal fuMances remaining a cer
tain time in the earth, instead ot be
ing; devoured according to the vul
gar notion by worms, were convert
ed inn a fubilance of exac'tly the
fame qualities with that called Sper
maceti. Experiments have been
•since made in imitation ot this pro
te/s of nature ; and various pans
of'the human and other bodies, de
posited a few months in the eqrth,
or in water, have been convened
into infiaipiiiable fubftauces, whicli
burn with a bright flame till they
totally coninmed. Ihe only
parts not thus convertible are the
earthy basis of the bones. And as
every thing infiamtnahle relolves it
felf in lis analvfis into different kinds
of air, the body of tnan therefore
will finally resolve itfelf into ethe
real fubltances. All dead bodies are
capable of being made into candles ;
and ihofe who have been tlriving
in vain.to give light during their
lives, will certainly have that capa
..city after they are (lead.
According to Lord Rawdon's af
fe<sting ftatenient in his new bill,
there are no less than 30,000 debtors,
1,300 wives, and 4,000 children dil
trelied by the prelent Laws ot Loan
and Credit.
The Navy Lift at present contains
the names ot 110 lels than 1400 lieu-
tenants
The following lingular remedy in
cases of Canine Madnels, we learn
by a letter from Jamaica, was late
)y pratflifed at Kingilon, with the
«lefired effect : A large Dog, who
had every lyiitprom ot madnefs,wfts
immei fed in fall water till nearly
dead. When taken out and rubbed
before a fire, it gradually recovered,
without the lead remains of its for
mer malady.
- Nfrtwii-hiianding the communiea
(ion from Kranceis much interrupt
t<d, we have received the following
le.:ei from Boulogne, which con
rains tvewi of great importance,
fhoti!d the event juftify the contents
of it.'
Bo.uj.or.N V, April 25.
« Twelve days ago two Knglifh
men embarked at this place for En
gland. This circumliance took
place at noun, and wiih uncommon
attention ton aids ituni on the part
of the .Municipality of the town.
/\n agent from the executive Cou
ncil, \»n« accompanied them fium
Paris, did not fail to excite ouf at
tention. The inhabitants in gene
ral expected tlieir bulinels was re
lating to the opening of the pafi'age
between England and France, which
hadbeen so lately fbut.
These two perlons arrived here
about fix davs before, accompanied
by t he agent above mentioned, whole
pafl'pot t laid he was charged tuuji a
mijfion. He brought alio
fiO'n the Executive Council to the
Mayor and Municipal officers, to
fend these foreigners to their own
country, with all proper attention.
This was 011 the point of being ful
filled, when a Comniiflioner ot the
Convention from Arras arrived in
the town, to whom the Mayor com
municated the affair. The Commif
mifHoner, not knowing their er
rand, and as the defection of Du
mouiler had jtilf taken place, he
fufperted the persons, and accord
ingly ordered them to be arretted,
and dispatched a courier to Paris,to
identify the paflport,anda boat was
kept readv, in cafe the letters of
the President of the Council were
confirmed. In this situation they re
mained fix days, when orders were
returned to fend t'hem so England,
arid these were confirmed by the
new committee of Public Safety,
confifling; of nine of the leading
'members df both parties in the Con
vention. The Mayor and Munici
pality accompanied them to the
(£uay, where they embarked for
England. Ihe objetft of their mil"
fion tin one could learn.
" Thjs circhmftance has of courte
c9ufed much (peculation, and the
general opinion is,they w ere chatg
e'(l with making; overtures for a
peace. The Government of France
having cleaily seen the deceptions
that had been palled upon it on'a
lormer occasion, dnd feeing that
the only prcfpect of quieting af
fairs at homie was by peace, has u
natiimbr.tly determined upon the
meafuie; In cunfcquence of whicfc,
letters' to this purpose, we tfndeV
llarid, have been written ; but ow
ing to the Alien Bill,and not know
ing what reception a Frenchman
would meet with in England, these
letters were thus forwarded to an
Agent of the Executive Council re
lident in London, to deiiver lo
Lord Grenville."
GEOGRAPHY OK THE WAR,
AT THE PRESLN'T MOMENT:
It may be fatisfaftory, perhaps,
to foine who are defiroos to form a
just idea ot the tranfatftions in the
present war between France and
the Allies, if we point out the dif
ferent fltuations of the armies op
posed to each other. First, the
Prince of Cobonrg, at the head of
the Austrian, Hanoverian, and Bi'i
ti(h troops in Flanders, 13 begging
the towns of Conde, Valenciennes,
&c. on the northern frontiers of
France. If we then carry our eve
alongthemap to the eallward for
2>o miles, welhall find the cities of
Mentz and Caflel, (which (land op
pofiie to each othei on the banks of
rhe Rhine) closely besieged by the
Prnlfian General Kalkreuth. At
tending the Rhine about fifty miles,
we come to Spires, where General
Wurinfer, at the head of 40,000
Germans, is preparing to lay siege
to Landau, a Wrench town in Alsace,
which Marihal Vnnban employed
all his (kill in rendering one of the
ttroiigeft fortrellesin Europe. Pro
ceeding about twenty miles to the
fomhward, we find Ctiftine with the
remains of his army, which tlie
Ki"£ of Prnfiia has driven from the
Electorate of Mentz, encamped un
der the walls of Weillenbourg, in
Alsace.
The celebrated invfcmor of the
terrible fire, known under the title
of Cailles, which did fiich surprising
execution at the late liege of Bel
grade. under Marechal Laudohn,
has been sent for expreis from Vi
enna, to affiil at the siege of Menrz.
T he allies, it has been rtated,are by
no meaijs agreed as to their object,
or the mode to attain it. 'f he ge
nerous valour of the Prince de Co
bourg, it was laid, refpefled an ene
454
mv, he had found brave beyond ex
pecta. 1011.
VI l»iit was even yer more motnen
tons ill.in this, it was aliened, upon
ue know not what authority, that
the BritiHi Cabinet was n»t indil
posed to negociate for a peace. To
(his idea, the vigorous preparations
at home, and the fubfi.fy to foreign
troops g|ve some contradiction ; not
TTTdeeJ i Surmountable tothofe who
recolltrt ishe Miniller's accuftonted
practice of armed negociations.
Mr.-Secretary Dundas's son, who
is jiow of age, is the political pupil
of Lord Auckland. He docs not
come into Parliament till the noble
Lord has pronounced his education
finijhed.
The Earl of Fife's fuccefiion to
the fortune of his kinfwoinan, Mrs.
Duff, is disputed by her nephew,
the foil of ihe late Admiral Duff.
The bsne of centemion is worth
jo.oool. of coilrfe it will afford pret
ty pickings for the lawyers.
Miss Scott, tjie wealthiest Heiress
in the kingdom, is, by an abfuid
C laufe in her father's Will, prohi
bited front marrjing-a Peer, or the
presumptive Heir of a Peer, under
the Penalty of forfeiting the greac
(Ell part of her fortune. This per
haps may be one reason why Mr.
Dundas has never counted on the ho
nors of the Upper House.
You,rg Oswald, the son and heir
to.the great fortune of, the Ameri
can Peacemaker, is lately married to
the beautiful and accompliflied Mis:
Lucy Johnson, of Edinburgh,
j Extract of a letter from Dundee, data
, April 21.
" I am just now. come from wir
n effing a molt ditit'trous and melan
choly scene. Above 150 persons
having this afternoon crowded 011
board a light lloop in this harbor,
at full tide, in order to view the
launching of a vellel from the dock
yard, unfortunately,froin the weight
of the perfonson the (hrouds, yards,
and declc, the (loop overset, and eve
ry person was thrown into the wa
ter. By the Angular exertions and
activity of the teamen (and huma
nity of others who ft ripped- and
fwarn in to save those unhappy per
sons) bqats were inttantly got close
to the wreck, and almost allot them
were picked up in less than a quar
ter of an hour. lam sorry to learn,
however, that about thirteen have
pevilhed by this fid catattrophe.—
The wild and helpless fci earns and
veils of parents and others, i.t qnett
of, and trembling for the fate ot
children and relations, may be much
easier imagined than described. A
mother saved with the lots of theiu
f;int in her arms, and children pre
ferred with the loss. of their keep
ers, formed altogether the molt
helpiefs and wretched piftnre 1 ever
beheld. It has indeed at present
spread a very dismal gloom over the
face of this place.
United States.
WINCHESTER (Vir.) June« 4.
On Thurftey the 23d t:k. Lome pcifor.s un
known, but believed 1 om a variety of circum
ftmtces to cr»ni;ft of from 3 to 6, fir. d upon thue
unarmed Indians, two Chickafaws and a Che
rokee, in ihe woods, about 600 .paces from Gov.
Blount's house, and.wo.undin tne Chick
a.aws ( John Mot-m) wijh which wound he died
on the 24 h, and was buried on the 25th.
The toitowiwg is Governor Bloum's order for
\ hie buTial:
"■John MorriS; the Chickafaw who was so
inhumanly murdereo on the 23d inlUnt, by the
bale hand of fame unknown ailailin,. to be bu
.ried thi&afternoon, at theufual bunai ground of
the white people, with the military honpisdue
to a warrior as hi* friendly* nation. TAe pio
ctfliou 10 com,meuce in the street near the'inaga
iinc, at four o'clock.
ORtiER OF PROCESSION.
,c Serjeant, corporal and twelve privates to
precede the corps.
. 41 The Governor and brother of the
as chief mourn- rs. ' |
" The Chlckaiaws, two ant! two.
" rhe civil and miliiary officers, two &. (wo.
" Private citizens, two and two." <
The tnnabitants ot Knoxville generally, and
many from the circumjaccnt coun;ry attended.,
and expjeffed great lorrow at the inhuman mur!
der ot this good and iriendlv voting Chickalaw
John Morris, and his brotnei Janus Andtr
<o„, who was wi:h Flamingo in Gen St. Clair's
army, arrived will, Gn«,dcy, the Hanging Maw,
and leveral other Cherokccs, at the Governors,
on Sunday the igth, and at the time they were
Sired upon, were in the woods, attending ,r,
Bfetrttuifes at grafs A between the Gwerm,:'.,
hou e a„d plantauon. in a bend of the rve,
Hulfton, whcie no armed ocifqn, could have
any bui.nefs except to injure such Indians.,
they might there find.
TV rrrpTratnrs of f<
fti.lr ihitc lti4i»ft l»oi tc« - * ih t v n«'
only louglic lonocetil blooVt but prupcuy not
then own.
N E W-Y O H K, June *7.
Extract*tf a Utter Jrcm Lcnticm, dated May 1, to
a merchant in this irtr.
" I find that the situation of things at home
as well as abroad has brought Mr. Pitt to fay
very nearly as much as that he will treat with
the convention, or tile inen of the day if'no
better can be done. He is so much
at the home situation, that be will make
rertns with France, and next packet will con
firm to you what I now write."
fOR THE GAZLFTE.
THE second and principal ofcjeftion to the
proclamation, namely, (hat it is iti'con
filtent with the treaties between the Unite J
St:'"es an.d France, will now be examined.
It has been already !lic\Vn, that it is nnt in
confident with the performance of any of the
stipulations in thole treaties, which would
not make ns an alTociate or party in the v at
and particularly that it is incompatible with
the privileges secured to Fiance by the fe
venteentb and twenty-second articlei of the
Treaty of Commerce ; which, except the
clau r <* of guarantee, comlitute the most ma
terial discriminations to be found in our trea
ties in favor of that country.
Official documents have likewise appeared
in the pnblic papers, which are understood to
be authentic, that serve as a comment upon
the lenfe of the proclamation in this part ci:-
lar, proving that it was nto deemed by the
executive incompatible with the performance
of the ftipnlatio'ns in tbofe articles, and that
in practice they are intended to be obiervec 1 .
It has however been admitted, that the
declaration of netit'rality excludes the idea of
an execution of the clause of guarantee.
It becomes neceHary therefore toexanrme,
whether the United States would have a va
lid juftificatien for no' complying with it, iii
ca'e of the , r being called upon for that pur
pore by France.
Without knowing bow far the reasons"
which have occurred to me, may have influ
enced the President, there appear to me to
exist very good and fubftantiaJ grnan'ds far A
refufal.
The alliance between the United States
and France is a d-Jevfive alliance. In the cap
tion of it it »s denominated a u treatv of al
liance eventual and dejenfive." In the body of
it. (article second) it is called adefenfive alliance.
The, words of that article are as follow 44 the
efTential and dire<sl end of the present dcfcvfve
'affiance is to maintain eife&uajly the liberty,
sovereignty and independence absolute and
unlimited of the United States, as wdlfin
mat te v r «t r •?» <*-ef com me r ce.''
The predominant quality or character then
of our alliance wi:h France is, t'.<at it h'de
ftnfive in its principle, of course the meaning
obligation and force of every stipulation in
the treaty must he tested and determined by
that principle. It j's not necetfary (and would
be abTurd) that it lhould be repeated in every
article. 11 is fufHcienc that it be once de
clared, to big undferftood in every part of the
treaty, unless coup'ed with express negative
words excluding the implication.
The great queflion consequently :s—what
are the. nature and eueft of a defenfive alli
ance ? When does the cafus fcdeer is, or cords/ion
of the contra# take place, in such an alliance?
Reason, the concurring opinions of writers,
and the practice of nations will answer
u when either of the allies i* attacked, when
war is made upon him, not when he makes
war upon another In other words, the ft -
pulated afHUance is to be given to the ally
when engaged in a defcnficc, not when enga
ge/J in an o]f:nf,ve war. This obligation to
allift only in a defenfive war, the
eilential difference between a defenfive allir
ance and one which is both ofifcnfive and dr.
fenliye. In the latter cafe there is an obli
gation to co operate as well when the war on
the part of our ally is offenfive, as when.it is
defenfive. To affirm therefore, that the
United States are bound to allift France in
the war in which Ihe is at preient engaged,
would be to convert our treary with, her into
an alliance offenfive and defenfive, contrary
to the express and reiterated declarations of
the instrument itfelf.
This afljertion implies, that the war in
question is an ojfcnjivc war on the part of
France.
And To it undoubtedly is with regard to all
the powers with whom fl?e was. at war at the
tir.se ofifiuing the proclamation.
No portion is betrer eftablilhed, than that
the power which firjl declares, or ail tally begins
a War, whatever may have been the caul'es
leading to it, is that which makes an ojfcnjive
war. Nor is there any doubt that France
nrft declared and began the war, against Au
stria, Prussia, Savoy, Holland, England and
Spain.
Upon this point there is apt to be some in
corre&nefs of ideas. Thjofe who have not
examined fubjefts of such a nature, are led to
imagine that the party which commits the
firft injury, or gives the firft provocation, is
0:1 the offenfive fide in the war, though begun
by the other party.
But the cause or the occasion of the war,
and the war itielf, are things entirely diftinA.
Tis the commencement of the war itfelf,
that decries the question of being an the of
fenli ve or deienfive. Ail writers on the laws
ot nations agree in this principle, but it is
more accurately laid down in the following
extra<st f 0111 Burlcmaqui*
44 Ne:ther are we to believe (fays he) that
he rtho faji injures another, begins by tb?t
an war, and that the other uho dt•janfo the fatiij&clijn 'for the injury reficitca,'
is aiwavs on the dejenfue. Then; are a great
many vnjuJl'dMs which may kindle a war, and
which- luwever are not the , war it felt"—as
the ill treatment of a prince's ambaiTadors,
the plundering of his fubje&s, &c."
" If therefore we take up arms to revenge
such an unjiiH aCI, we com.nence an off ' nfive
butajuft wai ; and the prince who has done
the injury, and will not give fatisfa&ion,
jnnke" a defenfive but an unjust war."
"We mult therefore affirm, in general,
that the firft who takes up arms, whether
jujily or uM/ufiiy, commences an ejfenjivc war,
and he who oppofas him, whether with or
without reason, begins a defunliye war."
France then being on the ojfcnfive in the war
in which she is engaged, and our alliance
with her being defenfrve only, it follows, that
the tafus foederis, or condition of our guaran
tee, cannot take place; and that the United
States are free to rcfufe -a peiformance of
that guarantee, if demardod
T''ofe who are dilpofed to juftify indiscri
minately every thing n the conduct of France,
may reply, that ih >ugh the war in point of
form may be ofFenlive on her part, yet in
point of princip'e, it is d*fenfive—was in each
instance a mere anticipation of attacks me
ditafed against her, and was jult fied by pre
vious a2,gieffions~of the oppoiite pa* ties.
It is b'-Heved, that it would be a ufiicient
anfwerto th s observation to lay, that hi de
termining the legal and po/iire obligations of
the United Sta s,the o ly point of inquiry is,
whether the war in fa I began by
or byher ene.nes—' hat aM beyond tfii w >uld
be too var-;u£, too liable 'o di'.pute, too uc 1
matter of opinio 1 ' i oe a f > oyer criterion o
rational to >dufr ; that when a war Breaks
out between two jation% all other nations, in
regard to the poutive rights of the p* ties,
and their p si ve duties toward; them, are
bou'd to coniitier it as equally jult on both
fid.' —that co' equentlv in a dejenfue alliance,
when war is mile upon one of t : i; aliier., the
other is bound to fulfil the conditions ftipu-
on its part, v t lout inquiry, whetner rhc
war is rightfully begun or not—as, on ?:he
o* .er hand, when war is begun by one of the
allies, tilt other is exempted f om the obliga
tio ef lfifting ; nowever jnit the commence
jnent of it m.iy have been.
The foundation of this doctrine is, the -uti
lity of certain rules for determining
the reciprocal duties pi «atioris-»-that as littie
»s polSSle be left to opinion, andto the
fu' terfugejof a refining or unfaithful cafuif
tly ; . - • .. .
Some writers indeed of great authority af
firm, rhjt ]t is a tacit condition of every
treat of aNiance, t >at 01 e ally is not bound
to afiilt the other in a war manifeftly unjust.
But this is queftio.ied on the ground which
has been stated by other refpeftable authori
ties And though the ina.iifeft: injnftice of
the war has been affirmed by lbinjy to be a
good cauf- for not executing the formai obli
gations of a treaty. I have no where found it
maintained, that the jultice ofa war is a con
fxderation which ran oblige a nation to do
wnat its formal obligat >ns d 3 not require ;
as in the cafe ofa dejcnjiiic alliance, to fu nifh
the luccours stipulated, though ti.e formal ob
ligation did notexift, by reason of the ally
having begun the war instead of being the
part-y attacked.
Bnt if t ! iis were not the true doftrrne, an
Impartial examination would "prove, that witl
refpeft to some of t ie powers, France is not
Wamelefs in the circumstances winch precedec
and led to the war with t'.iofe powers; thai
if flu eceived, lhe a!fo gave causes of of
fence, a d that the juftite of the war, on hei
fide, is in those caies not a littie problema
tical.
T iere are p u lential reaforls which difluade
from going largely into this examination, un
less it ihal! be rendered necelTary by the fu
tue tii' n of rhe dift ufiioii.
It will befn&cient here, to notice cursorily
tK following tufts.
Fiance co.nnitted an npon Hoi-
Jand in declaring fiee the navigation oi the
Sc'ieldt, and acting upon that declaration ;
contrary to Treaties in which she had expli
citly acknowledged and even guaranteed the
exclnfive right of Holland to the navigation
of that river, and contrary to the doitrines
of the best wrners, and the eftabliflied
of nations in such cases.
She give a general and just cause of alarm
to nation-?, by that decree of the 19th of No
vember f 1792, whereby tbe Convention, in
the name of the French nation, declare that
they will g ant Jraternity and ajjijlance to every
f topic who rvipi ro recover their liberty, and
charge the executive power to lend the necef-
A\ry orders to the generals to give aifiltance to
such people, and to defend thoje citizens who may
have been, or who may be vexed tor the caule
oflberty; which decree was 01 dered to be
printed in all languages.
• Whim a nation has a&ually come to a refo-
Intiou to thraw off a yoke, under which it may
Have groaned, and to all'ert its liberties, it is
juftifiahle and meritorious in another nation
to afford afliltance ro the one which has been
opprelTed, and is in sheaS of liberating itleJf,
but it i% not warrantable for any nation bejore
koud to hold out a general invitation to inlur
feetion and revolution, by promising to assist
ctery people who may xuijh to recover their li
berty, and to defend those cuizcjis oi every
country, who may have been i or who may be vexed
jor the cauje of liberty' It ill le Is to commit to
the Genkr als of its armies the discretionary
power of judging, when the citizens of a fo
reign country have been vexed for the caul' 6
oi liberty by their own government.
The iatrer part of t'le decree amounted
to what France herfelf had molt com
p'jined of-**an interference by one nation in
i*: -* iutevnal government of another.
• Vatel juillv o'.;fcrv«-,, as a conl«]uence of
li!»,-;tv and independence of nations—
-1 - does riot belong t) P.nV forv-ion quiver
to take cognizance of" the-adminiftratioYi -of
thejovereiga of another country, to ler-himfMf
up as a judge of bis cosdu&, : or to obiige iiun
to alter it." ' . '
Such a conduct as that indicated by this
decree, has a natural tendency to disturb the
tranquility of nations, to excite fermentation
and revolt every where; and thereforeju(li
fted neutral powers, who were in a lituation
to be aittrfted bv it, in taking me afu res to re
pre(s the Ipirit by which it had been dictated.
But the principle of this decrec received a
more particular application roGreat-Britain,
by some subsequent circumftarices,
Among the proofs of this are two answers,'
which were given by the President of the
National Convention, at a public fitting on
the 28th of to two clitivrent, ad
dre'Tes; one presented by a deputation from
" The Society for Constitutional Information
in London"—the other by a deputation of
EngJifh and Iridi citizens at Paris.
The following are extra&s from these an
swers:
" The (hades of Fenn, of Hambden and of
Sydney, hover over your head'-; and tht mo
ment, wvjtout do-iht, approaches, in xvhich the French
will bring congratulation 's to the National Conven
tion of (treat-Britain."
" Nature and principles draw towards us
England, Scotland and Ireland. Let the cries
of friend»h' p r-found through the two Repub
lics." 44 Principles are waging war agai'ift
tyranny, which will fall under the blows of
ohilftfbpliy. fto\a/f\ in Europe is eirh r dJlro\ed,
or on the point of perijh 'mg, on the ruins ot'fceo
dalit 1 ; and the declaration of rights phc db\ the
si le oj thrones, is a devouring fire which willco>J me
th m.— '/OR.THY REPUBLICANS, &C.
Declarations of this fort cannot but be con
sidered as a d eel application of the principle
of the decree to Great-Britain ; as an open
patronage of a revolution in that country ; a
ror.duct which proceeding from she head of the
body that governs France, in the pre r enee'
and on behalf of that body, was unquestiona
bly an orfence and injury to the nation to
which it related.
The dec ee of the 1 of November is
another cause of offence to all the govern
ments of Europe. Bv that decree 44 the French
nation declares, that it will treat as enemies the
penp/e, who re/nftng or renouncing liberty and
equality, are J /irons of preserving their prince
and privileged cajis—or of entering into an accom
modation with them y &zc." This dectte was
little /hort of a declaration of war a".ainft all
nations having princes and privileged chjfes.
The incorporation of the ten ",^ OJ ies, over
which the arms of France had temporarily
prevailed, with and as a part of herfelf, is mo
ther violation of the rights of nations, into
which the convention was betrayed by an in
temperate zeal, if not by a culpable ambition.
The laws of nations give to a power at war
nothing more than a u'ufrn&uary or pofleflo
rv right to the territories which it conquers ;
suspending the abfoHite property and $lpmi- 4
rtion til a treaty of peace or fometh'ng equi
valent shall cede or relinduifh the conquered
territory to the conqueror. This principle
is one of the greatest importance to the tran
quility and security of nations—facilitating
an adjuft.nent of their quarrels and the pre
servation of anc ent I'mits.
But France, by incorporating with herfelf,
in several instances, the territories she had
acquired, violated this important principle
and multiplied infinitely the oblfcacles of peace
and accommodation. The roftrine, that a
nation cannot consent to its own dfmember went, but
in a cafe of extreme necejjity y immediately at
tached itfeif to all the important territories :
while the progrefiive augmentation of the
dominions of the mod powerful nation in Eu
rope, on a principle not of temporary acqui
sition, but of permanent union, threatened
the independence of all other countries and
gave to neighboring neutral powers the juftelt
caufeof umbrage and alarm. It is a princi
ple well agreed and founded on the best rea
sons, that whenever a particular nation a
dopts maxims of conduct contrary to thofeV
generally established among nations, calcula
ted todiftm b their tranquility and to expose
their fafety, they may juitinabW make a com
mon cause to oppo.e and controul iuch na
tion.
Whatever partiality may be entertained
for the general object of the French revolu
tion, it is impofliole for any well informed or
fooer minded man not to condemn the pro
ceeding* which have been itated ; as repug
nant to the general rights of nations, to fl e
true principles of liberty, to the freedom of
opinion of mankind : and not to acknowledge
as a conlequence of this, that the justice oi
the war on the part of France, with regard
to some of the powers with which (he is en
gaged, is from those causes questionable
• iough to free the United States from all
emb.tn aflfineAts on that score ; if it be at all
incumbent upon them to go into the inquiry.
The policy of a defenfive alliance is so ei
fentially diftinft from that of an otfenfive one,
that it is every way important not to con
found their eifc-(sts. The fir ft kind has in
view toe prudent o'ojeft of mutual
when either of the allies is invo'untarijy for
ced into a w ,r by t ie attack «f Tome
power. The iatter kind fubje&s the peace
of each ally to the will of the other, and obli
ges each to pa' fake in the wars of policy and
interest, as well as in those of fafety and de
fence, of the other. To preserve their boun
daries diftinft, it is necellary that each kind
(hould be governed bv plain andobvi«>us rules.
This would not be the cafe, if instead of
taking the simple fart of who begtftlfe the war
asagoide, it was neteffary to travel into
metaphysical nicetics about the juitice or in
justice of the causes which led to it- Since
also the not furnilhing a stipulated succour,
when it is due, is itielf a cause of war, it is
very requifice, that there ihould be fome^>al-
455
J} -<-*e c! irerion f'»r nCcTtci'Tiirg tc'-fcH it h 'duf".
• his e rite; :ni:, a- before obfer'vett, in a ti.
' U !iv e pUkinc* is tlie e>t or Hot; of
t.'.e War by our aljy as a meie matter of inch
Other topics calculated tp ilh.itrate the p»>
litiorj that the United States are not bound
toexeeute the clause of guaranteej are re
served for another paper.
Philadelphia, 5.
To-morrow being the Annivrrfary of In.
dependence, the Day wilt be celebrated
the Union—
v .P/f paranons are making at Graf's Gardctu
-jfr re ' r ?fl*tn€f»w wtll be
'foaJnt'-in •hnndaricefor tHe numerous
which are cxptf&ed to aflVmbleat thole delight-'
fu! retreats.
By Cdpt. Ede?, in the fchoonrr Dion, who
arrived at Boston iaft week, in 22 days from
Demaraia, we learn, that when pafling iht island
of Maitinitn, he saw the white flying on one
of the heighths—but the Enwhlh iuei,which ap
peared round the island, would not peunit him
to land.
The Bank of North America has declar d a
dividend oi fix per cent, foi, the hdlf year ending
July 1 —to be paid atifjr. the 10th inlian'.
A letter from Carlisle Penn ylvania of 2.> d
nit- gives an account of a duel between Ma
jor James Lamberton and Mr. John Duncan 5
the dispute originated at an election of mill
tia officers, and terminated in the death of
Mr. Duncan who was shot through the head.
F.xtraß of a Utter from Bo(ion y June 23.
" Bv arrivals from the Welt India liiands
we find that t-he Teas iwarm with pi'ivateei ;
and that aim oft every American \ellel is
boarded, and on the least fu picion of their
having Fiencheffects on board arc carried in
to jort for investigation. A brig arrived to
day winch bad been carried into St. K'tts and
about hl'ds. r ugar, belonging to French
wete det ained,though I believe tney
are fiot yet condemned—and it is laid judg
ment will be fu r pended till further o.ders
from Europe—The Captain of this brig was
was obliged to pay / 5? charges, and loft iiis
freight, besides a detention of 2D days.—
'T s highly probable that this procedure of
the British will be painted in ftio'ng colours
by a certain class of*malcontents aiuon&tt us,
but to avoid a mileonftru&ion of their con
du& it ought to he known that the expenee
and trouble that the American Captain was
put to, arose from hi* prevarication, and
putting the captors to the utmoi); difficulty in
proving the property ; however I do no*t lup
pofe that it depends on the whim or geneiofi
ty of the captors whether we as a neutral
power are not entitled to the freight ot the
goods which has always been the custom of
nations—it lb, I fhouid think means would be
found to obtain it."
Aii extfali of a letter from Man
i? r/t tr -Wmlfnitn tr> Fhilsdei
phia, as published in Mr, Duftlapf's
paper of yesterday, fays—" '] his
[speaking of England] is nndoubt
edly the mop wretched country in
the universe; and from its (ituaiion
when you left it, though but four
months ago, you can form 110 idea
of its present diitreflcs. The war
has caused so great a lcarcity of mo
ney as was never before known,and
has so completely deltroyed that
confidence which is the life and
foul of trade, that there are bul a
very few mercantile houses in the
kingdom capable of supporting their
credit.
On the 25th April a debate took
place in tile Britilh House of Com
mons, 011 a motion made by Mr.
Sheridan, that the Houfe/houid pal's
a Vote of eenfure, preparatory 10an
impeachment against Lord Auck
land, British Miniftei at the Hrfgue,
for signing and prefeniing a ineino
rial to the Mates General, which
contains in fubrtance, a propofiilun
for delivering up to the fwoid ot
the law all members of the national
convention who voted for the king's
execution, which may fail into the
hands of the combined poweis—
This motion was finally negatived
211 to 36 —In thecouife of this de
bate the partition of Poland was
brought on the carpet, and tepio
bated both by the Minister, Mr.Piit
—and by the opposition.
Mr. Fen no,
/ ohferved tn your Ufl a paragraph purporting that
the iujtom liouje Revenues of the pott 0} London
had jullev fijty per cent, in the month oj April;
■ike Jolfduiing article is a flat contradiction 0) that
ajjeition ;
April 30.
REVENUE.
Comparative totals of the several branches
of public revenue, under the he; dsof cuftom<,
excise, stamps, and incidents* for th© weeks
ending April 27, 1792, and Apiil 26, 1793 :
'79-- 1 "93-
224. 1251. 7s. 11 jd.—270,1481. 18. 6d.
New Dutie;. »
if. 3291.05. 0d.—12,1611. Bs. 7d.
The above is given as a contradiction to
fnme recent aflertion in the opposition piints,
that the revenue fmce the commencement of
war, ha-» been so much on ti»e decline, as to
render tiie publication of any comparative
rtatemer.t of it and the last year a matter of
flism? to rV rn:: i
t:ie country.- So JWv f'i<
pears jt'roin the above
statement, tliat there i
more than 47,5331 in t
pa.ed with tlie cyrrefyu
Gold Coins of trance antt
iipain t und Dominions,
Spain.
Grains. Cen'v.
1 3
z 7
3 ii
4 14
5 18
6 21
7 25
8 £9
9 33
10 36
11 40
12 44
13 47
M
■5 sf.5 f .
16
17 o <
18 66
■9
so 73
21 76
£2 80
? 3 84
24 87
PACI FIG US.
*** TAPf.FS for receiving and pa\rnp Cold
Cnim calculated 'by the Officers oj the Bat ;c of the
United Strifes, agreeable to the new Law—from
which the Grain labia above aye extracted- ma) be
h<>d at Hen j vmin Johnson'j>, Huh Jtreet, near
Fourth-JlreJ.
The length oj 14 P»c finis" ozedfions x
pifitonement of the Utter from B/rmingham, and
yt trJavots till Ou* next.
ARJIIVh iratt/ie ioj lL \ DM. PHI A.
Biig Molly, 1. nfey, Cape-F'-incois
M • rv, Whartorij Cdcht
Srh'r K V t Bnntori, St. M I't ns
Sloop Poll), Dawfon, S: Bartholomew*
PRICE OF 6l UC
6 prr rc r.!?,
3 per C'tits,
Deterred,
Fall Ihdr s 3ank U. S
BANK oj the UNI Ti.D STATES.
July i<t, 1^93.
NOT ICE is hereby given ilidt ther- ui i be*
pi c) at the Bank a!;er ihc 10 h i> ft ;nt, to
Ihe S orkUnid' f* of iheir Rrpr« It* Itt 31 jvei ciu'y
( auih rized, FOURTEEN DOLLARS .»d
FIFTY CENTS so» ea.ch SHajc, being lUe divi*
dend declared for th last {\\ mon.n».
By order,
JOHN KEAN. Cafliicr.
q>Jw
INSURANCE company.
Phi l adllphi a, July ill. 1793.
NOTICE is hereby giv it to 'he mcmb is
•he I r.i. „|He Coniirauy 0} M-orih A nerl*
fa, that the D- t\ors have circlaml a d'viu< nd
(to (liiti day) ol hfc p'T ceo'- on the antiouiit of 'he
tilt instalment, and o! otic per cent p j monifr,
on the sums paid towards the ficond and ihucj
inftatntems, calculating horn the fiift day of
the month following: hat tn whi h theft- pay*
ments were marie. The D vtdenri will be paid
o the Stockholders or'h 11 Reprelcn at»ves,
tbe Company's Orficr, (\'o, 119. iouth F
Street) at any "me »?tri he 711 nit.
As th: member\ of this I onpahy are much
difberfrd throughout tt c United fates, the Prwttrf
in the J'everof state y are requejied tu 6we the übm c $
place in their utwjpater s.
To Ke observed in Irani-fling BLumf* wilh the-
Insurance Company
OF NORTH-AMERICA
ift. A LL or tit is lor I-ilurancc mull beg'ven
jTx. tn wr tmg, fignrd by the applicant ;
and as ta<nute a defenpt n of the vt If- j is ex
celled, at. the person ordering the infuranccu an
?ive, relpc£ting her age, buiit, how tound .ud
fitted, and whether double fingl aecKfd.
2d. Ail policies will be ready lor delivery in
twen'y-four hours after the order for irilurauce
i> accepted at the office, and the policy mull ue
lakrn up in ten day*.
3<l. Nous, wi han approved endorser, for all
premiums, mull he given in « n days, pa) able
as follows :
For American and Weft-India nfqucs, ip
three t» ontha after the date «>l the policy.
For European r«fqu s, in fix monihi,
F i India and China nfquts, in 12 months.
For rifquea by 'he year, m tight inQo'.h),
For nfques for fix months, in ionr months.
A-d !or rilqoes lor any IcfiVr lime, in thice
mon; hs.
4'h. LofTes will be paid in ten days after proof
and adjustment ; but if the note given for the
premium not have become dur w .thin that
time, the amount of it (hail, iieveuhcltfs, be de
duced from the loss to be paid.
The Ihfurance Company of North-America
hereby give notice to all w hoin il m y concern,
that, agrcrably to the above rules, they an ready
to receive ali ofdera tor inluiance, which may
be addrefTcd to ihem, accompanied with dnec
t:ons to some refponiVble house in Philadelphia
forihe payment ot the premiums within the
time limited.
In cafr the rifques offered fhal! hr approved,
the infuraitce ihall be immediately Ct t: ;
othciwiCe notice (hall be given, eit he i L>\ anlvtci:
to the- person applying, 01 to his «g<*nt, in Paiia*
deJphia, as mav be orderrd.
By of the
i. i>t \rZ«Mv H A2.AKU, wfcC*ry.
4W
J u! >' 3-
or cf grc.*t regre? f
can a ri ""Create, it ay
e, wbicii is a i'uithiul
is an actnr.l in create of
:he pftfent week, com
on«ing week lift yeafi
r •
'ftd-Coini'vf Great firi
lain and P^riu^al,
v -oTaips."
\ •" :j
3 i*
1 ' .1 ■ r ik
■• ' H -". 4»
.*.; 7
' ■. * \ .*!*'
9 " as
10 , 37
i» 4°
,8 • n
13 48
14 S x
'16' 65
>6 -
17 : ■ «>a
18
19 7o
*20 74-
«* 7®
2* 81
>3 . ' *5
24 "9
ft.
17 8
■ . fff't . .
• - ■ioji '- > "
'g,, pttecjiv*4*.
I Hf-M'.ZER HAZARD. Sec'ry.
Rule sPOT and PEARL ASHES.
TO THE PUBLIC.
HAVING attended carefully to the
result of several comparative expe
riments, which were made to ascertain
the nature and merits of Samuel Hop
kins process for manufa£tui ing pearl ashes
r>r calfined alkaline falls, we are of opini
on, that by his method wood ashes may
be made to yield 3 quantity of pearl arties
of a very fine white colour, equal in
weight and strength to the black or un
calfined alkaline salts which are obtained
by the ordinary method of leaching and
boiling down the black leys, so that the
manufadlorer who adopts this method,
will probably gain all the weight which is
loft by the ordinary process of callining,
and may effect the calfination in a much
easier manner. We also examined a fur
nace eiefted according to the directions
of Samuel Hopkins, and were present
during part of a process, which was con
ducted in it, and believe it to be so happi
ly construed as to effect the calfination of
wood ashes, and evaporate the ley# with
out more fuel than is used to boil down
the leys only by the common method.
* David Rittenboufe.
f Benjamin Rujh.
J James Huclinfan.
Benjamin Say.
II C "/ Per Wijicr, jun.
John Peninglon.
June 17, 1793.
In addition to the foregoing certificate
I conceive it proper to inform the public
in what refpeft my process differs from
the nfual method, and to offer some direc
tions to such as may incline to adopt it.
l(t, This proceis consists in calfining
common house or field ashes in a furnace
of a peculiar conftrudtion so contrived,
that the fame fiie that boils down the
leys calfines the allies; hence it appears
there is not a greater consumption of
wood in this new procefsthan is necefTary
in the former, in obtaining black salts,
and the ashes from the wood for boiling
saved, which was before much loft, occa
sioned by the strong draught necefTary to
keep the kettles boiling.
2d. It is recommended to such as may
adopt this method, to pay patticular at
tention to the firft part of the process,
viz. calfining the ashes properly ; for this
being carefully performed, the fubfeqnent
steps become easy and less liable to fail.
3d. 1 he ashes should be spread over
the hearth of the furnace not more than
one inch and half thick, direst a lively
blaze on them until they become red hot,
keeping them frequently fturred, and the
dampers well closed.
4th. In order that the workman mav
know when his ashes are fufficiently burnt
until he becomes enough perfect in the
business, from other circumstances a small
parcel may be taken out and put in a
glass with water, if the ashes fettle quick
ly after fturring them, and the leys ap
pear colourless, they are ht for drawing
into the ash pit j if they arecalfined lon
ger the quantity may be diminished.
sth. After the fires begin to burn ev
ery part of the furnace should be kept as
close as poflible, the door of the alh pit
and hearth, and that for introducing the
ashes on the hearth (hould be made to
shut complete, for I have reason to be
lieve a great draught of ait carries off
much of the salts.
6th. Great care should be taken not
to. put more allies into the furnace than I
have direded above, it has been found
by experiments that when much more
have been put in ; »'ie salts are not so white
nor the quantity so great, I believe it
was for want of attention to this circum
stance and allowing too great a draught
of air, that some who attempted my pro
cess have not been foiuccefsful as was ex
pefled.
7th. The aihes are drawn from the
alh pit the next day after calfining and
put. into leach tubs the leys drawn from
them aftet fettling are boiled down, the
salts kept well fturred in hni/hing off, un
til they become perfe&ly white.
Bth. If the salts should not become
the colour as ia deferibed in the firft in
fiance, thro' an imperfetf calcination,
they may be diflolved, fettled, and boiled
down again.
The advantage arising from this pro
cess may be comprised under the follow
ing heads.
i ft. By calfining the allies before the
leys are drawn from them, we obtain as
great a quantity at lcaft of pearl ashes,
as of common black salts ; pearl ashes ge»
ncral!y fells when at maiket, £-$o per
ton, the iiighell price for black falls is
£.25 pei ton, and if converted into pearl
ashes, it requires as much more labour
and ruel as in the tirfl instance, and a Jof6
from 25 to 30 per cent.
The foregoing observations are inten
ded for such as are or may be engaged in
the manufa&oring of pot and pearl ashes,
they will easily undetftand the terms I
* President of the American Philofo
phical Society.
f Profeffor of the Inditution and
Clinical Medicine in the University of
Pennsylvania, formerly Profeffor of Chi
miftry.
J Profeffor of Chemistry in the Uni
versity.
|| Adjunct Profeffor of Anatomy, Su
rgery, &c. in the University, formerly
Profeffor of Cliemiftry in the College.
The two othets whose names are with
out references, are Phyficiansof this city,
have employed ; for the information of o
thers it may not be amiss to explain wha
is meant by black salts, pot ashes, ant
pearl ashes.
2d. Black salts are made by boiling
down the leys from common wood ashes,
until they aie perfectly dry.
3d. PoTafhea are made by melting the
black salts in a very strong fire and lading
it out into coolers.
4th. Pearl ashes are made by putting
the black salts into a furnace prepared fcr
the purpose, and throwing a strong blaze
on them ; this operation is called scorch
ing, they are then diflolved in water, fet
tled and boiled down again, returned
back into the furnace and calfined until
they are fufficiently white : Pot ashes
made from calfined ashes are allowed tobe
much superior to those made in the com
mon mode.
I expect the names and characters of
most of my fellow citizens that have
signed the foregoing certificate are well
known ; they are allowed to be well ac
quainted with chemistry ; a furnace was
erected for one of them who kindly un
dertook to make the necefTary compara
tive experiments, according to my direc
tions } the result of which is already set
forth.
SAMUEL HOPKINS.
6th Mo, 2 2d, 1793.
I do hereby certify, that I have erected
a small furnace, in the suburbs of this ci
ty, on the patent method, for the pur
pose of manufa&uring pot and pearl ash
es, which I find to consume on an aver
age no more than one cord of wood per
week ; two hands will calfcin 20 bushels
of allies per day, and bail down the leys
therefrom in the fame time, which if well
calcined will produce pearl alh the firft
boiling. The leys are not so apt to boil
over as those in the common method
The fxpence of the said furnace, exclu
sive of the boilers, did not exceed ten
pounds currency.
JOHN REES.
TO THE PUBLIC.
THE Eft 1 tofc proposes to continue the
publication of the Gazettf. of the United
States , Jor di/lant circulation, after the Jirfi of
December next, on the following terms, viz.
It Jhall be publijhed on Wednesdays and
Saturdays, on paper of the Medium fizc—which
is larger than the piefent.
The price, Three Dollars per annum, exclusive
of postage.
Subfcrtptiom to be received by the re/ieClive Pcft-
Majlers throughout the Unionor fuh other pafons
as may fee proper to collcEl them. S
The papers to he forwarded by pofi twice a aerh.
packets to contain lef than s■ x hob,* <-and *.
fubfcripttoni to be received for a lefi term than fix
months.—Payments to be constantly Kx months in
advance. Twenty per cnt. deduMonfrom the price
«/_/*< Gazitti, wil/be allowed to those who col.
leEi and forward the fubfeription monev, free of ex.
Penfe, in full of all charges for their trouble in tfe
Dujinejf,
The publication will contain a, usual, a variety of
tngtnal f ]J<,y S -J„reign and domrft, c intelligent
°f">< L'gfctuu
l .H. %'■ &c - Attention mill be paid
to d, [patch,ng the fibers with punfluality, and Sub-
J unc 8.
I HL MEMBERS OF THE ~
insurance company of
NORTH AMERICA,
"> takt Notice,
(h,,n n Conftuut ; on "quires Payment of
m j ?i Z°" cach Sha,( \ on ihe Second
of Fo V' Da> ' of J u 'y nfx, » " n Penalty
of Fo.fenurc of the Money already paid. V
cnnH C I 5'° c ,ders as have not ™de their fe.
cond Instilment, 3re informed, that Paymfnt'
Tin r Tk'v " tht ' Com P an V's Office, No
said' ~ Front-Street, either on or befnte the
D 3y ' "'* e _ v ma V find it most convenient.
TuneS EBENFZEI * HAZARD, fo'rv.
1793.
This Jay it puiliJheA, hj
M A T H E VV C A R £ Y,
No. 118, Maikrt-flrret, Philadelphia,
No. VIII. of
Guthrie's Geography,
IMPROVtD,
The terms of Subscription may be fcen in the
proposals at lai ge.
THIS valuable work will contain (exclujiue
of the maps in tht London edition 179 2 )
maps of New-Hampshire, Maffachufetu, Con
nedlicut, R. I (land, Vermont, N.York, N.Jer
sey, Penniylvania, Delaware, Maryland, Vir
ginia, Kentucky, N. Carolina, S. Carolina,
Georgia, Switzerland, the Discoveries of Cap
tains Cooke and Clerke, and the countries
round the North Pole.
Besides the great improvements in the Ame
rican Geography, the accounts of France will
be ex traded from the French Geography, pub
lithed since the revolution ; the map of France
will be engraved agreeably 10 the division into
departments: the hiAory of Ru{fia, which, »n
the London edition, is carried no farther than
1 775* is continued to the late execrable invalion
of Poland by Catharine : the account of Swe
den has been compiled anew, and numberless
other improvements will be made in this edi
tion.
%* Subfcripiions are received by the book
sellers in Boflon, New-York, Baltimore, Wil
mington, Richmond, Charleston, See. See.
J""* '?■
Hercule De Sercey,
From Leogane, JJland of St. Domingo,
MAKES and fells all forts of Mugs, Jacks,
Porringers, Cups, Stew-Pans, Lamps, See.
in Tin, plain or japanned —He also mends old
tin work. As he works cheap, he hopes for the
public encouragement.
No. 23, Race.street, near Front-street.
June 7.1.
HERCULE DE SERCEY,
DE Leogane, Isle de St. Dominque, travaille
en ler Blanc, de toute forte de manieres a
commande et a bon inarche.
A Philadclphie, ce 22 Juin, 1793.
No. 23, Race-street, pres Front-street.
JUST PUBLISHED,
By Thomas Dobfon,
Book feller, at the Stone-House, in Second Jlreet,
Philadelphia,
» VOL UM E IX, OF
ENCYCLOPAEDIA:
OR, A DICTIONARY OF ARTS, SCIENCES,
and MISCELLANEOUS LITERATURE,
On a Plan entirely new
BY WHICH
The Different SCIENCES and ARTS
are digellcd into the Form of Diflinft,
TREATISES OR SYSTEMS:
THIS VOLUME CONTAINS
HYDROSTATICS, Hygrometer, History of
Japan, I .eland, Jerusalem, Jews, India,
InfefU, Insurance, Ireland, Italy, Kamfchatka,
Knighthood, Language, Law, Legerdemain,
with a great variety of Biographical and Mifcel-
Janeous Articles.—llluflrated with thirty-one
elegant Copperplates.
CONDITIONS.
I. The work is printing on a fuperfine paper,
and new types, (cast for the purpose) which
will be occasionally renewed before they con
trast a worn appearance.
11. she work is furmlhed in boards, in volumes
or half-volumes, as fubferibers chufe; the price
of the whole volumes, five dollars each, of the
half-volumes two dollars and two-thirds of a
dollar each. Ten dollars to be paid on fub
fcribmg, the volumes or half-volumes finifhed
to be paid for when delivered, thepriceol one
volume to be paid in advance, and the price of
each succeeding volume to be paid on deliver
ing the volume preceding it. No part of the
work will be delivered unless paid for.
111. In the couife of the publication will be de.
livered about five hundred copperplates ele
gantly engraved in Philadelphia; which by
far exceed in number those given in any other
Icientific dictionary. At the dos? of the pub
lication will be delivered an elegant fro'itif
piece, the dedication, preface, and proper ti
tle pages for the different volumes,
It is expected the wo.k will be comprised in
about eighteen volumes in quarto.
The fubfeription will continue open on the
above terms till the firft day of September next
to give opportunity to those who are not yet
fubferibers, to come forward.
Thole who have subscribed, and got only a
small part of the work, are requested to com.
irk'i <" S ' i,hr as PuWiftied, as soon as
poflible, as after the firft of next September, by
which time the tenth volume is expe&ed to be
ready, the publiftier will not consider hitnfelf
bound to make up those setts which are not
completed up to that period.
Philadelphia, June 19, 1793.
GENERAL POST-OFFICE
Philadelphia, May 27, 1793. '
£00 Dollars Reward.
W r?MTT S I ce " ain THOMAS SLOSS
. OANTT, has lately made his
r from ftiltimore- County Gaol, to which he was
cornm.tted under ~ charge of having rubbed the
Vori 1' u" 28th da V of last ■
h y S'" 0 ' that * rtwar ' i of five
hundred dollars will be paid ,t thii Office ,0
any petfon orperfons wh° fhotl apprehend' the
» ?<>"«" S'°f> Gem, and deliver him imo
custody of the Keeper of the •
theeuft dy of Qftbe Gaol or ,„, 0
answer the ha.ge C ° m ' ag '°
TIMOTHY PICKERING,
, PoJI-Majlcr General.
BfTtiOMJijOWMN. DAVITS
STUART,9c DANIEL CAR ROLL.
Bfyitirei,
C °'M^»" o,i ««».£<
prepare the P«tWife «uMia K i, |tc. *uhin i ht
Ch» of fftfltnam, far the reception of C 0.,.
greft, itoi®foiTheir peritnant rt&deoce ificr
the ytir 1800—
A LOTTERY
FOR THE IMPROVEMENT OF THtf
Federal City.
50,000Ticketsat 7 dollars, arc 350.000 dollars
LIST OF PRIZES, vi*
1 Superb Hotel, with bat)v&, >
out houses, See.See. to coll )
1 Caftt Prize
I ditto
1 ditto
j ditto
2 ditto
10 ditto
20 ditto
100 ditto
200 ditto
400 ditto
1,000 ditto
15,000 ditto
5,000 arc,,
1,000
s°°
100
50
*5
co
19
16,737 Prizes
33,263 Blanks
j 0,000
By this scheme at leafl the amount of the tick,
ets will return to the fortunate adventurers, arid
yet the federal City will gam its object thereby
tn a magnificent building designed both for pub
lic and private convenience.
Although some cxpence must neceff»rify at r
tend the conducting of the lottery, (which ex
pence will be taken from the principal prize) ike
CommilConeis having agreed to prcfent m r«.
turn a fufficient quantity of excellent free-Done,
together with (he best adapted lots for the Hotel
and for tht mit-hoofet, rtie value of-the
entire may be fairly rated a; Jomething mart t£H
par: Io tnis important inftonce it will lie found
on examination, to exceed all ihe lotteries thai
have ever been offered to the Public in this ,ir
perhaps in any other counuy. The keys of the
Hotel, when compleat, will be delivered to the
fortunate poffeflor of the ticket drawn
its number.—All the other prizes will be
viiibtut dedaSlionJn me month ajter the diamtig, by
the City Tireafurer at Walhingtnn, or at fo cjJ
Bask or Banks as may be hereafter announce
for thefionveniency of the fortunate advent^rrs.
The drawing will commence on Monday thj
6th of Septembei next, at the City of Walhins
tan.
Tickets may be had of Col. ffi/t. Oieienj, City
Treasurer of Washington ; Tha:er i 3 Birt'e:, of
Charleston, South-Carolina ; Giison Dtftijon, Sa
vannah ; Mcffrs. James Wtji £# Co. Baliimoie •
Mr. Peter Gilfnan, Bolton j and at fiich ether
places as will be hereafter publilhed.
N. B. ONE HUNDRED DOLLARS will
be given for the belt Plan of an elegani and i-oir,
venient HOTEL or INN, with hot and cold
Baths, Stables, and other nut houses, ifprefentd
on or before the loth of April next -, and a pre.
ference will be given 10 the Artist for a Con
trail, provided he be duly qualified to
compleat his plan. The ground on which
the Hotel and out houses are to be erefied, will
be a corner lot of about 90 by 200 feet, wiih a
back avenue to the (tables, &c. Sefttons and
eltimates of the expense will be cxpefted
with the elevations, &c. compleat ; and 50,000
dollars mult be regarded by the ArchitcS asthe
utmost limit in the exprnfe intended lor this
P"rpofe. S. BLODGET,
Agent for the affairs of the City.
March 6, I7q,q.
NOTICE.
THE STOCKHOLDERS in the SOCIETY
for ESTABLISHING USEFUL MANU
FACTURES, are requclled to take notice, that
the fourth and last payment is due, and trust be
made on or before the 13th day of July next,
either to the Cashier of the United States Bank
Office of Discount and Deposit at Ni w-Ynrk—
the Caihier of the Bank of New-York—the
Cathier of the Bank of the United Slates in Phi-
Udelpbu— or John B*y»rd, Etq. is thecnyc# *
New-Brunfwick, in the state of New-jeifcy.—
And that the (hares of a]) persons neglrflmg ty
make such payment, and the monies by them
previously paid, will then be forfeited for the
common benefit of the said society.
That the fubfenber is duly authorized to make
the requisite indorfments upon the certificates of
(hares, and that books of transfer are opened at
his office in Front-street.
NICHOLAS LOW.
New-York, Juve 12, 1793. (epti3j)
Albany Glafs-Houfe.
The Proprietors of the Glafs-Manufa&ory, under
the Firm of
M'CLALLEN, M'GREGOR and Co.
BEG leave to inform the public, that they have
now brought their WINDOW-GLASS to
such perfe£lion, as will be found, on comparifon r
to be, equil, in quality, to the belt London
Crown Glass.
Having fixed their prices at a lower rate than
imported Glass, they are induced to believe, that
importations of this article will be discontinued,
,n proportion as their works arc extended.—
They propose to enlarge the scale of this busi
ness, and as the success of it will depend on the
patriotic support of the public, they beg leave to
lolicit their friendly patronage in the pursuit of
a bianch which will intcreft every lover of
American Manufactures.
All orders for Window-Glass, of any size,
will be received at the Store of Rhodes and
MacGregor, No. 234, Queen-flreet, New-
York, and at the Glass Wa-ehoufe, No. 48,
Market-street, Albany, which will be punctually
attended to.
WANTED, fix smart a&ive LADS, not
exceeding 16 vears of age, to be indented as
Apprentices, and regularly inftru6led in the
varibus branches of Glass-Making.
Alfp, three Window-Glass Makers, to whom
great encouragement will be given.
May'i, 1793. epjsu
S°,CQCr
*5,000
»o,oco
*5,000
10,OQ©
10,000
1 o,oo#
lo.oqo
10,000
10,0 ve
10,00©
J»o,o€>®
»5 o .oo©
Dollars 350,00 a